area  handbook  series 

Cambodia 

a  country  study 


Cambodia 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by  Russell  R.  Ross 
Research  Completed 
December  1987 


On  the  cover:  Detail  from  a  tower  of  the  Bayon  Temple,  circa 
A.D.  1200 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1990. 

Copyright  ®1990  United  States  Government  as  represented  by 
the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  All  rights  reserved. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Cambodia:  A  Country  Study. 

Area  handbook  series,  DA  pam  550-50 
Research  completed  December  1987. 
Bibliography:  pp.  323-44. 
Includes  index. 

1.  Cambodia.  I.  Ross,  Russell  R.,  1935-      .  II.  Library  of  Con- 
gress. Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV.  Series:  Area  hand- 
book series. 

DS554.3.C34    1989  959.6  89-600150 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-50 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  are  indebted  to  a  number  of  individuals  in  govern- 
ment agencies  and  at  private  institutions  who  shared  their  time  and 
specialized  knowledge  to  provide  research  data  and  perspective  to 
the  production  of  this  book.  Among  them  were  Bill  Herod  and 
Patricia  D.  Norland  of  the  Indochina  Project,  Ok  Soeum  of  the 
Cambodian  Buddhist  Association,  and  Rath  Chhim  of  the  MRM 
Language  Research  Center.  Bill  Herod,  Frank  Tatu,  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Robert  E.  Hammerquist  generously  shared  their  personal  and, 
in  many  cases,  unique  photographs  of  Cambodia  for  use  in  this 
book. 

The  authors  also  wish  to  express  their  appreciation  to  members 
of  the  Library  of  Congress  staff  who  contributed  to  the  prepara- 
tion of  this  volume.  These  included  Richard  F.  Nyrop  who  reviewed 
and  coordinated  all  chapters;  Robert  L.  Worden  who  reviewed  all 
draft  chapters;  and  Martha  E.  Hopkins,  who,  in  addition  to  edit- 
ing a  chapter,  managed  editing  and  production  of  the  entire  book. 
Andrea  Matles  Savada  was  responsible  for  seeing  the  book  through 
to  its  completion  after  the  departure  of  the  editor  of  the  book.  Other 
Library  of  Congress  staff  members  who  contributed  substan- 
tial efforts  were  David  P.  Cabitto,  Sandra  K.  Cotugno,  and 
Kimberly  A.  Lord,  who  prepared  and  arranged  all  graphic  material; 
Teresa  E.  Kamp,  who  drew  the  cover  and  chapter  heading  illus- 
trations; Harriett  R.  Blood,  who  drew  the  topography  map; 
Susan  M.  Lender,  who  reviewed  the  maps;  Tracy  Henry  Coleman 
and  Meridel  Jackson,  who  performed  word  processing  for  all  chap- 
ters; editorial  assistants  Barbara  Edgerton,  Izella  Watson,  and 
Monica  Shimmin,  who  helped  prepared  the  manuscript  in  final 
form;  and  Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the  Library  of  Congress  Compos- 
ing Unit,  who  prepared  the  camera-ready  copy  under  the  super- 
vision of  Peggy  F.  Pixley. 

Others  who  contributed  to  the  book  were  Richard  Kollodge, 
Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  Michael  Pleasants,  and  Catherine  Schwartz- 
stein,  who  edited  chapters,  and  Shirley  Kessel,  who  prepared  the 
index. 


v 


Contents 


Page 


Foreword     iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction      XXV 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Donald  M.  Seekins 

PREHISTORY  AND  EARLY  KINGDOMS    6 

Early  Indianized  Kingdom  of  Funan   6 

The  Successor  State  of  Chenla    9 

THE  ANGKORIAN  PERIOD    9 

CAMBODIA'S  STRUGGLE  FOR  SURVIVAL,  1432-1887  .  .  12 

Domination  by  Thailand  and  by  Vietnam    14 

The  French  Protectorate    16 

THE  FRENCH  COLONIAL  PERIOD,  1887-1953    18 

The  Colonial  Economy    19 

The  Emergence  of  Nationalism    20 

The  Struggle  for  Independence    22 

CAMBODIA  UNDER  SIHANOUK,  1954-70    26 

The  Geneva  Conference    27 

Domestic  Developments   28 

Nonaligned  Foreign  Policy    30 

The  Cambodian  Left:  The  Early  Phases    35 

The  Paris  Student  Group    38 

The  KPRP  Second  Congress   40 

INTO  THE  MAELSTROM:  INSURRECTION 

AND  WAR,  1967-75    41 

The  March  1970  Coup  d'Etat   43 

The  Widening  War    44 

Early  Khmer  Rouge  Atrocities    46 

The  Fall  of  Phnom  Penh   47 

DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA,  1975-78    48 

Revolutionary  Terror    51 

Society  under  the  Angkar    51 

Politics  under  the  Khmer  Rouge    59 

Establishing  Democratic  Kampuchea   60 


vii 


An  Elusive  Party    61 

The  Fall  of  Democratic  Kampuchea    66 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  73 

Robert  K.  Headley,  Jr. 

ENVIRONMENT   76 

Topography   76 

Climate    79 

Drainage    80 

Regional  Divisions   81 

POPULATION    83 

Dynamics    83 

Distribution    83 

Migration  and  Refugees    85 

SOCIAL  STRUCTURE  AND  ORGANIZATION    87 

The  Khmer    88 

Other  Ethnic  Groups   99 

LANGUAGES   110 

Austroasiatic-Mon-Khmer    110 

Austronesian    112 

RELIGION    112 

Buddhism    112 

Chinese  Religion    122 

Islam    122 

Other  Religions    124 

EDUCATION   125 

Public  School  System   125 

Buddhist  Education    130 

Private  Education    131 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   132 

Public  Health    132 

Welfare  Programs    135 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    139 

Tuyet  L.  Cosslett 

ECONOMIC  SETTING   142 

Natural  Resources    143 

Labor  Force   144 

ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENTS 

AFTER  INDEPENDENCE   145 

Sihanouk's  Peacetime  Economy,  1953-70    146 

The  Wartime  Economy,  1970-75    149 

The  Economy  under  the  Khmer  Rouge,  1975-79  ....  151 


vin 


ECONOMIC  ROLE  OF  THE  KAMPUCHEAN  PEOPLE'S 

REVOLUTIONARY  PARTY   155 

New  Economic  Policy  and  System    156 

First  Plan,  1986-90    158 

AGRICULTURE    159 

Collectivization  and  Solidarity  Groups    160 

Rice  Production  and  Cultivation   162 

Other  Food  and  Commercial  Crops    164 

INDUSTRY    165 

Major  Manufacturing  Industries    166 

Handicrafts    167 

DOMESTIC  COMMERCE    167 

FOREIGN  TRADE  AND  AID   168 

Composition  of  Trade    169 

Major  Trading  Partners    169 

Illicit  Trade  with  Thailand  and  with  Singapore    173 

Foreign  Economic  and  Technical  Assistance    173 

FINANCE    176 

Banking   176 

Currency    176 

Taxes   177 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  COMMUNICATIONS    177 

Roads  and  Highways   178 

Railroads    178 

Water  Transportation    178 

Ports    181 

Airports    181 

Telecommunications    182 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    185 

Rinn-Sup  Shinn 

MAJOR  POLITICAL  DEVELOPMENTS,  1977-81    190 

Background    190 

Cambodia  in  Turmoil    190 

COALITION  GOVERNMENT  OF  DEMOCRATIC 

KAMPUCHEA   195 

Origins  of  the  Coalition   195 

Coalition  Structure    201 

Democratic  Kampuchea    203 

The  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Front    206 

National  United  Front  for  an  Independent,  Peaceful, 

Neutral,  and  Cooperative  Cambodia    207 

THE  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF  KAMPUCHEA    208 

The  Constitution    209 

Government  Structure    210 

ix 


THE  MEDIA    214 

THE  KAMPUCHEAN  (OR  KHMER)  PEOPLE'S 

REVOLUTIONARY  PARTY    215 

THE  KAMPUCHEAN  (OR  KHMER)  UNITED  FRONT 

FOR  NATIONAL  CONSTRUCTION  AND  DEFENSE  ...  220 

FOREIGN  AFFAIRS    222 

The  Coalition's  Strategy    222 

Phnom  Penh  and  Its  Allies    224 

The  Search  for  Peace    224 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    239 

Frank  Tatu 

HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND   242 

The  Time  of  Greatness,  A.D.  802-1431    242 

Period  of  Decline,  1431-1863    243 

The  French  Protectorate,  1863-1954    243 

The  Japanese  Occupation,  1941-45    245 

The  First  Indochina  War,  1945-54    247 

The  Second  Indochina  War,  1954-75    250 

MILITARY  DEVELOPMENTS  UNDER  THE 

KHMER  ROUGE   261 

Khmer  Rouge  Armed  Forces   261 

Khmer-Vietnamese  Border  Tensions    262 

The  Vietnamese  Invasion  of  Cambodia   264 

MILITARY  DEVELOPMENTS  IN  POSTWAR 

CAMBODIA    267 

Tenuous  Security   267 

Coalition  Government  Resistance  Forces   268 

National  Army  of  Democratic  Kampuchea    269 

Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces    .  .  272 

Armee  Nationale  Sihanoukiste   275 

Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary 

Armed  Forces    276 

Foreign  Troops  and  Advisers    295 

LAW  ENFORCEMENT  AND  COUNTERSUBVERSION    .  .  298 

People's  Security  Service   298 

Protection  under  the  Law    299 

Penal  System   302 

Appendix  A.  Tables   305 

Appendix  B.  Major  Political  and  Military 
Organizations  315 

Bibliography   321 


X 


Glossary    341 

Index   343 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Cambodia,  1986   xxiv 

2  Early  States  of  Indochina    8 

3  Khmer  Rouge  Administrative  Zones  for  Democratic 

Kampuchea,  1975-78    56 

4  Topography  and  Drainage    78 

5  Annual  Rainfall  and  Monsoon  Airflow,  1985   82 

6  Annual  Flooding  Around  Tonle  Sap,  1985    84 

7  Ethnolinguistic  Groups  of  Cambodia,  1983    102 

8  Transportation  System,  1987    180 

9  Successive  Governments  in  Cambodia  (since 

Independence)   188 

10  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  1987    .  .  .  202 

11  Government  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea,  1987  .  212 

12  Organization  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 

Revolutionary  Party,  1987    216 

13  Armed  Forces  of  the  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic 

Kampuchea,  1987    270 

14  Organization  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 

Revolutionary  Armed  Forces,  1986-87    282 

15  Military  Regions,  1987    288 


XI 


Preface 


The  previous  edition  of  Cambodia:  A  Country  Study  was  compiled 
in  1972  when  the  ill-fated  Khmer  Republic  (see  Appendix  B)  was 
fighting  for  its  life  against  the  Khmer  Rouge  (see  Appendix  B). 
In  the  one  and  one-half  decades  since  that  time,  profound  upheavals 
have  wrought  substantial  political  changes  in  the  country.  These 
changes,  and  the  regimes  that  sought  to  impose  them,  are  only  now 
beginning  to  be  studied  with  objectivity.  In  addition,  the  quicken- 
ing pace  of  negotiations  concerning  the  future  of  the  country  sug- 
gests that  a  watershed  period  in  its  modern  history  may  be 
approaching.  It  is,  accordingly,  time  for  a  new  country  study,  not 
only  to  catch  up  with  the  momentous  developments  of  the  past 
fifteen  years,  but  also  to  establish  some  point  of  departure,  some 
bench  mark  by  which  to  interpret  future  events. 

This  is  a  completely  new  book,  and,  unlike  the  previous  edition, 
it  follows  the  standard,  revised  format  of  the  entire  country  study 
series.  It  presents  its  narrative  under  five  major  concomitants  of 
the  Cambodian  experience:  historical  setting,  society  and  environ- 
ment, economy,  government  and  politics,  and  national  security. 
Sources  of  information  for  this  study  included  both  monographs 
and  serials,  especially  material  published  since  1975.  Chapter  bib- 
liographies appear  at  the  end  of  the  book,  and  a  brief,  annotated 
bibliographic  note  on  sources  recommended  for  further  reading  is 
included  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in 
the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  readers 
who  are  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1 ,  Appen- 
dix A).  A  glossary  is  included. 

It  should  be  noted  that,  as  a  result  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  policy 
of  eradicating  the  traces  of  its  predecessor  and  of  establishing  a  ruth- 
lessly self-sufficient,  anti-modernistic  regime,  after  mid- 1975, 
statistical  and  quantitative  data  for  Democratic  Kampuchea  are 
contradictory  and  virtually  nonexistent.  As  for  its  successor,  the 
People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea,  such  data  are  only  now  becom- 
ing available,  and  they  remain  fragmentary  and  contradictory. 
Cambodia  continues  to  be  a  desperately  poor  country,  its  infras- 
tructure ravaged  by  war,  and  its  thin  stratum  of  educated  citizens 
either  in  exile  or  nearly  wiped  out  during  the  Khmer  Rouge  years; 
it  is  thus  scarcely  able  to  compile  data  that  one  has  come  to  expect 
of  other  nations.  Nevertheless,  the  country  is  making  an  effort  to 
bind  its  wounds  and  to  reestablish  sovereignty  over  its  territory, 
without  enduring  either  a  suffocating  Vietnamese  presence  or  a 


xiii 


chilling  reimposition  of  Khmer  Rouge  authority.  More  and  better 
data  should  become  available  as  Cambodia  slowly  rehabilitates  itself 
and  resumes  its  place  in  the  Asian  family  of  nations. 

A  word  of  explanation  is  needed  concerning  the  use  of  '  'Cam- 
bodia" instead  of  "Kampuchea"  to  designate  the  country.  Accord- 
ing to  historian  David  P.  Chandler,  both  terms  are  derived  from 
"Kambuja,"  a  Sanskrit  word  thought  to  have  been  applied  origi- 
nally to  a  north  Indian  tribe.  The  selection  of  "Cambodia,"  there- 
fore, was  without  ideological  connotation.  It  is  more  recognizable 
to  the  English-speaking  reader,  and  it  adheres  to  the  standard  prac- 
tice of  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names  (BGN),  which 
also  has  been  followed  in  the  spelling  of  all  place  names.  In  April 
1989,  after  the  cut-off  date  of  research  for  this  book,  Prime  Minister 
Hun  Sen  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  announced  that 
the  name  of  the  country  had  been  changed  to  the  State  of  Cambo- 
dia. In  recent  years  some  provinces  have  been  combined,  renamed, 
and  then  divided  again  several  times.  The  most  recent  case  is  that 
of  Bantay  Meanchey,  the  formation  of  which — from  parts  of  Bat- 
dambang,  Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey,  and  Pouthisat — was  an- 
nounced in  late  1987  to  take  effect  in  1988.  For  the  geographic  terms 
occurring  most  frequently,  such  as  names  of  provinces,  the  BGN 
designations  together  with  the  more  common,  journalistic  equiva- 
lents are  as  follows: 


BGN  Name 

Common  Name 

Batdambang 

Battambang 

Kampong  Cham 

Kompong  Cham 

Kampong  Chhnang 

Kompong  Chnang 

Kampong  Saom 

Kompong  Som 

Kampong  Spoe 

Kompong  Speu 

Kampong  Thum 

Kompong  Thorn 

Kaoh  Kong 

Koh  Kong 

Kracheh 

Kratie 

Mondol  Kiri 

Mondolkiri 

Otdar  Meanchey 

Oddar  Meanchey 

Pouthisat 

Pursat 

Rotanokiri 

Ratanakiri 

Stoeng  Treng 

Stung  Treng 

Takev 

Takeo 

xiv 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
(CGDK)  (insurgent  coalition) 

People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  (PRK)  (government  in  Phnom 
Penh) 

Short  Form:  Cambodia 

Term  for  Citizens:  Cambodians 

Capital:  Phnom  Penh 

Date  of  Independence:  November  9,  1953 

Geography 

Size:  Total  area  181,040  square  kilometers,  about  size  of  Missouri; 
country  shares  800-kilometer  border  with  Thailand  on  north  and 
west,  541 -kilometer  border  with  Laos  on  northeast,  1 ,2 28-kilometer 
border  with  Vietnam  on  east  and  southeast;  coastline  along  Gulf 
of  Thailand  about  443  kilometers. 


xv 


Topography:  Most  salient  topographical  feature  lacustrine  plain 
formed  by  inundations  of  Tonle  Sap  (Great  Lake),  measuring  about 
2,590  square  kilometers  during  dry  season  to  about  24,605  square 
kilometers  during  rainy  season.  This  densely  populated  plain  de- 
voted to  wet  rice  cultivation  constitutes  heartland  of  Cambodia. 
Most  (about  75  percent)  of  country  lies  at  elevations  of  less  than 
100  meters  above  sea  level,  except  for  Cardamom  Mountains 
(highest  elevation  1,771  meters),  their  north-south  extension  to  the 
east,  Elephant  Range  (elevation  range  500-1,000  meters)  and  steep 
escarpment  of  Dangrek  Mountains  (average  elevation  500  meters) 
along  northern  border  with  Thailand. 

Climate:  Temperatures  range  from  10°C  to  38°C.  Tropical  mon- 
soons: southwest  monsoon  blowing  inland  in  northeasterly  direc- 
tion brings  moisture-laden  winds  from  Gulf  of  Thailand/Indian 
Ocean  from  May  to  October  with  period  of  heaviest  precipitation 
September-October;  northeast  monsoon  blowing  in  southwesterly 
direction  toward  coast  ushers  in  dry  season,  November  to  March, 
with  period  of  least  rainfall  January-February. 

Society 

Population:  In  1987  estimates  vary  from  6.3  to  7.3  million  with 
possibly  more  than  500,000  Cambodians  scattered  in  Thailand  and 
abroad  as  refugees;  average  annual  growth  targeted  at  2.3  percent; 
estimated  urban  population  of  more  than  10  percent;  estimated 
population  density  averages  about  36  per  square  kilometer. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Ethnically  homogeneous,  more  than  90  percent 
Khmer;  national  minorities  comprise  about  3  percent  of  total  popu- 
lation; Cham  (see  Glossary),  of  Islamic  faith,  most  significant 
minority  group,  other  scattered  tribal  minorities  in  upland  and 
forested  areas.  Reportedly  some  Vietnamese  immigration  since 
1981-82.  Some  Chinese  in  urban  areas,  numbers  unknown. 

Languages:  National  language  Khmer,  a  member  of  Mon-Khmer 
subfamily  of  Austroasiatic  language  group.  Russian  and  Vietnamese 
taught  in  Phnom  Penh  and  other  urban  areas. 

Religion:  Theravada  Buddhism,  suppressed  by  Khmer  Rouge  (see 
Appendix  B),  revived  but  controlled  under  successor  regime;  wats 
(temples)  and  monks  privately  supported;  wats  administered  by 
lay  committees;  Buddhist  clergy  or  sangha  (see  Glossary);  chair- 
man (pratheari)  heads  ecclesiastical  hierarchy. 

Education:  Rate  of  literacy  about  48  percent.  In  late  1980s  total 
estimated  school  enrollment   1.3  million  (primary),  369,500 


xvi 


(secondary).  Schooling  follows  Vietnamese  model  with  three  levels: 
primary  grades  1-4;  lower  secondary  education,  grades  5-7;  upper 
secondary  education,  grades  8-10;  education  at  all  levels  hampered 
by  lack  of  facilities,  teachers,  and  instructional  materials.  Post- 
secondary  education  consists  of  twenty  teacher- training  schools, 
plus  institutions  offering  professional  or  technical  instruction.  Soviet 
and  Vietnamese  instructors  heavily  represented  in  educational  insti- 
tutions. Admission  to  higher  education  based  on  political  reliability. 

Health:  Average  life  expectancy  48.5  years  (male  47  years,  female 
49.9  years)  for  the  period  1985-90;  some  prevalent  diseases  are 
tuberculosis,  malaria,  infectious  and  parasitical  illnesses;  infant  mor- 
tality 160  per  thousand  live  births  (1986);  nonspecific  gastro-enteritis 
accounts  for  disproportionate  number  of  infant  deaths;  localized 
malnutrition  and  poor  hygienic  conditions  exacerbate  debility  of 
population  and  susceptibility  to  illness.  Total  of  34  hospitals  and 
1,349  rural  dispensaries  nationwide;  in  countryside,  network  of 
primary  care  facilities  being  established  with  international  help; 
hospitals  planned  or  already  established  in  provincial  capitals,  dis- 
pensaries at  district  (srok)  level,  first  aid  stations  at  village  (khurri) 
level;  extension  of  health  care  greatly  impeded  by  lack  of  trained 
personnel  and  inadequately  developed  infrastructure  (especially 
clean  water,  and  distribution  or  availability  of  medical  sup- 
plies/ equipment . ) 

Economy 

General — Statistical  economic  data,  including  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary),  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — 
see  Glossary)  and  balance  of  payments  generally  unavailable,  lack- 
ing, or  unreliable  in  late  1980s.  Nation  evolving  toward  socialistic 
central  planning,  but  more  than  50  percent  of  economy,  especially 
retail  trade  and  small  scale  manufacturing,  remains  in  private  sec- 
tor. First  Five-Year  Program  for  Socioeconomic  Restoration  and 
Development  (1986-90),  hereafter  called  First  Plan,  inaugurated, 
with  priority  on  increased  cultivation  of  rice  and  rubber,  increased 
exploitation  of  forest  and  aquatic  resources;  economically  active 
population  about  2.5  to  3  million.  Collectivization  of  agriculture 
undertaken  through  organization  of  from  seven  to  fifteen-families 
in  solidarity  groups  {krom  samaki)  as  basic  production  units. 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  Fishing:  About  80  percent  of  labor  force 
engaged  in  agriculture,  forestry,  fishing.  Main  crop  is  paddy  rice; 
output  2  million  tons  in  1986;  area  under  cultivation  1.2  million 
hectares  in  1987.  Under  First  Plan,  output  expected  to  increase 


xvn 


7  percent  annually  to  350  kilograms  per  person  by  1990.  Produc- 
tion impeded  by  neglected  irrigation  systems  during  Pol  Pot  years, 
localized  insecurity  caused  by  forays  of  anti- Vietnamese  Khmer  in- 
surgents, and  lack  of  phosphate  fertilizers.  In  1986  principal  food 
crops  were  maize,  cassavas,  sweet  potatoes,  groundnuts,  beans,  and 
sesame  seeds.  Principal  commercial  crop  is  rubber.  Forests  cover 
approximately  70  percent  of  land  area;  first  reforestation  project  ini- 
tiated in  northeastern  and  southwestern  regions  of  country.  Fish- 
ing conducted  in  Tonle  Sap,  rivers,  and  offshore  in  Gulf  of  Thailand. 

Industry:  Industrial  sector  developing  slowly  because  of  lack  of 
power  and  raw  materials;  accounts  for  less  than  10  percent  of  labor 
force.  In  countryside,  unknown  number  of  rice-processing  mills  and 
sawmills  reportedly  back  into  operation  by  1986;  in  urban  areas  about 
sixty  state-owned  factories  produce  light  consumer  goods  such  as 
plastic  items,  hand  tools,  soft  drinks,  cigarettes,  textiles,  nails,  jute 
bags,  soap,  and  basic  pharmaceuticals;  phosphate  fertilizer  plant, 
distillery,  and  brick  tile  plant  reportedly  operating;  in  1987  small- 
scale  artisans  being  collectivized  in  Phnom  Penh,  development  plans 
call  for  opening  of  brewery,  plywood,  and  cement  factories. 

Services:  Total  public  sector  employment  (including  state  em- 
ployees, industrial  workers,  artisans,  party  cadres,  teachers,  and 
armed  forces  personnel)  amounts  to  about  8  percent  of  economi- 
cally active  population. 

Resources:  Limited:  gemstones,  gold,  silver,  phosphate,  limestone, 
clay;  possible  deposits  of  salt  and  coal;  unexploited  deposits  of  iron 
and  manganese  ore,  bauxite,  and  silicon  reported;  hydroelectric 
potential  from  Mekong  and  Basak  rivers. 

Exports:  Approximately  US$3  million  in  1986;  principal  exports 
natural  rubber  (latex),  timber,  resin,  maize,  tobacco,  and  soybeans. 
Rubber  and  forest  products  offer  best  hope  for  expansion  in  near 
term;  main  export  partners  Vietnam,  Soviet  Union  (purchases 
nearly  entire  Cambodian  output  of  latex),  and  other  countries  be- 
longing to  the  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (CMEA, 
CEMA,  or  Comecon — Glossary). 

Imports:  Approximately  US$17  million  in  1986;  principal  imports 
foodstuffs,  fuels,  machinery,  textiles,  pharmaceuticals,  and  chem- 
icals. Main  import  partners  Vietnam,  Soviet  Union,  and  other 
Comecon  countries,  especially  Poland  and  Czechoslovakia. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Negative  trade  balance  from  1979  until 
1987.  In  1984  extended  public  debt  US$503  million;  debt  service 
payments  US$4  million. 


xvin 


Exchange  Rate:  Official  rate  100  Cambodian  riels  per  United  States 
dollar;  unofficial  rate  about  123  riels  per  dollar;  Cambodian  riel 
not  negotiable  in  international  money  markets. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Railroads:  Two  routes  of  one-meter-gauge-track:  Phnom  Penh- 
Kampong  Saom  route,  260  kilometers  long;  Phnom  Penh- 
Batdambang-Sisophon  route,  352  kilometers  long;  railroads  dis- 
rupted during  regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  but  restored  to 
service  early  1980s.  Both  routes  remain  insecure  and  subject  to 
sporadic  guerrilla  attacks. 

Roads:  Total  13,350  kilometers;  about  2,600  kilometers  paved 
(bituminous),  7,150  kilometers  improved  (crushed  stone,  gravel, 
earth),  3,600  kilometers  unimproved;  main  roads  paved  but  in  vary- 
ing states  of  disrepair. 

Ports:  Main  seaport  Kampong  Saom,  (Gulf  of  Thailand).  Main 
riverine  port  Phnom  Penh,  at  junction  of  Tonle  Sab,  Mekong,  and 
Basak  rivers;  minor  ports  (Gulf  of  Thailand)  Ream  and  Kampot. 
National  merchant  marine  consists  of  three  vessels  with  total  dis- 
placement of  3,800  deadweight  tons. 

Inland  Waterways:  Total  length  about  3,982  kilometers;  principal 
arteries  are  middle  Mekong  River  (runs  from  Laos  through  Cam- 
bodia and  Vietnam  to  South  China  Sea),  and  Tonle  Sab  and  Basak 
rivers  from  Tonle  Sap  (Great  Lake)  to  Cambodian- Vietnamese 
border;  both  wide  (up  to  two  kilometers)  and  navigable,  with  fer- 
ries at  Kampong  Cham,  Tonle  Bet,  Sre  Ambel,  StoengTreng,  and 
Phumi  Prek  Khsay  (Neak  Luong);  precipitous  falls  and  rapids  occur 
near  Laotian  border  and  in  vicinity  of  Kracheh  city. 

Civil  Airports:  Thirteen  usable  airfields,  including  8  with  perma- 
nent surface  runways,  2  with  runways  2,400  to  3,600  meters,  5 
with  runways  1,200  to  2,400  meters;  main  international  airport 
Pochentong  near  Phnom  Penh;  secondary  airports  at  Kang  Keng 
at  Ream,  at  Siemreab  and  Batdambang.  National  airline  Air  Kam- 
puchea, inventory  three  Antonov-24s;  scheduled  air  service  to  Bat- 
dambang and  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  (Vietnam). 

Telecommunications:  In  late  1980s,  one  earth  satellite  station, 
part  of  Intersputnik  communications  network;  radio  telephone 
link  (via  Intersputnik)  between  Phnom  Penh  and  Ho  Chi  Minh 
City  (Vietnam);  about  7,300  telephones  countrywide.  One  radio 
broadcasting  station  ("Voice  of  the  Kampuchean  People")  with 
medium  and  short  wave  capability;  about  171,000  radio  receivers 


xix 


countrywide,  television  service  inaugurated  with  broadcasts  twice 
a  week  in  late  1980s. 

Government  and  Politics 

Two  governments  compete  for  internal  legitimacy  and  for  in- 
ternational recognition:  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea (CGDK — see  Appendix  B)  and  People's  Republic  of 
Kampuchea  (PRK — see  Appendix  B). 

CGDK:  Tripartite  coalition  consisting  of  Party  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea (PDK — see  Appendix  B,  or  Khmer  Rouge — see  Appen- 
dix B),  and  two  noncommunist  movements,  Khmer  People's 
National  Liberation  Front  (KPNLF — see  Appendix  B)  and  Na- 
tional United  Front  for  an  Independent,  Neutral,  Peaceful,  and 
Cooperative  Cambodia  (Front  Uni  National  pour  un  Cambodge 
Independant,  Neutre,  Pacifique,  et  Cooperatif— FUNCINPEC— 
see  Appendix  B).  CGDK  recognized  internationally  by  the  United 
Nations  and  a  few  non-communist  states;  controls  little  territory 
except  inaccessible  guerrilla  areas  in  northeastern  and  southwestern 
Cambodia;  administers  some  camps  along  Thai  border. 

Government:  A  president  and  a  prime  minister;  vice-president  in 
charge  of  foreign  affairs,  and  at  next  subordinate  echelon,  six  coor- 
dinating committees  established:  culture  and  education,  national 
defense,  economy  and  finance,  public  health  and  social  affairs,  mili- 
tary affairs,  and  press  and  information  affairs. 

Politics:  Coalition  partners  exist  in  uneasy  alliance,  united  only 
by  opposition  to  Vietnamese  occupation  forces  and  government 
in  Phnom  Penh;  coordinating  committees  staffed  by  one  member 
from  each  movement  comprising  CGDK. 

Major  International  Memberships:  United  Nations  and  many 
of  its  specialized  agencies;  Asian  Development  Bank,  Group  of  77, 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade,  World  Bank  (see  Glos- 
sary), International  Monetary  Fund  (see  Glossary),  Interpol,  In- 
ternational Red  Cross,  International  Telecommunications  Union, 
and  Nonaligned  Movement. 

PRK:  Constitutes  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh  which  exercises 
de  facto  control  over  most  of  Cambodian  territory;  recognized  in- 
ternationally by  about  three  dozen  Marxist  and  nonaligned  states 
and  revolutionary  movements. 

Government:  Marxist  government  evolving  toward  socialism,  sus- 
tained by  large  Vietnamese  military  presence.  National  Assembly, 

xx 


117  members  defined  constitutionally  as  "supreme  organ  of  state 
power,"  and  body  in  which  legislative  authority  vested;  assembly 
selects  members  of  Council  of  State  that  promulgates  and  interprets 
laws,  the  chairman  of  which  serves  as  head  of  state;  Council  of  State 
acts  as  secretariat  for  National  Assembly  and  performs  some  assembly 
functions  between  parliamentary  sessions.  Council  of  Ministers,  also 
responsible  to  National  Assembly,  exercises  direct  executive  authority 
for  administering  government  of  the  PRK  down  to  local  levels. 

Politics:  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Party 
(KPRP — see  Appendix  B)  only  political  party  permitted  in  late  1987 
in  areas  under  Phnomh  Penh's  control;  functions  at  national  level 
through  Political  Bureau  (nine  full  and  two  candidate  members)  and 
Central  Committee  (thirty-one  full  and  fourteen  candidate  mem- 
bers); mass  auxiliary  organizations  foster  patriotism  and  nurture 
party  activism  among  population;  most  prominent  of  organization 
Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National  Construction 
and  Defense  (KUFNCD— see  Appendix  B);  both  KPRP  and 
KUFNCD  active  down  to  local  level  and  maintain  nationwide  net- 
work of  committees  at  all  provincial  and  district  echelons.  Other 
mass  organizations  include  Kampuchean  Federation  of  Trade 
Unions,  Kampuchean  People's  Revolutionary  Youth  Union,  Kam- 
puchean Revolutionary  Women's  Association,  and  Kampuchean 
Revolutionary  Youth  Association. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Two  municipalities  (Phnom  Penh  and 
Kampong  Saom);  eighteen  provinces,  subdivided  into  about  122 
districts. 

Legal  System:  Ministry  of  Justice,  Office  of  Public  Prosecutor, 
and  People's  Supreme  Court  exist  at  national  level;  at  subordinate 
echelons,  people's  revolutionary  courts  established  at  provincial  and 
municipal  levels;  court  officials  include  president,  vice-president 
and  people's  councillors.  Separate  system  of  military  tribunals  exist 
for  armed  forces,  but  in  1987  functions  remained  unknown. 

Major  International  Memberships:  None;  nevertheless,  govern- 
ment in  Phnom  Penh  receives  assistance  from  a  number  of  com- 
munist and  nonaligned  states  and  from  private  international 
humanitarian  organizations.  Close  bilateral  relationship  exists  with 
Vietnam  as  result  of  Treaty  of  Peace,  Friendship  and  Coopera- 
tion signed  in  February  1979. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  of  CGDK:  In  1987  coalition  forces  remained 
unintegrated,  with  total  numbers  unknown.  National  Army  of 


xxi 


Democratic  Kampuchea  (NADK — see  Appendix  B,  also  known 
as  Khmer  Rouge) — roughly  40,000  to  50,000  combatants  in  three 
to  six  divisions,  distributed  in  four  autonomous  military  regions. 
Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces  (KPNLAF — 
see  Appendix  B) — strength  waning;  but  conjecturally  had  8,000 
to  14,000  combatants  organized  into  battalions  and  regiments, 
grouped  administratively  into  9  military  regions.  Sihanouk  National 
Army  (Armee  Nationale  Sihanoukiste — ANS — see  Appendix  B), 
strength  increasing;  has  7,000  to  11,000  combatants  organized  into 
a  command  structure  and  maneuver  battalions  grouped  under  6 
brigade  headquarters. 

Armed  Forces  of  PRK:  In  1987  military  establishment  comprised 
regular/main  forces,  provincial/regional  forces,  and  village  militia/ 
local  forces;  embryonic  coastal/riverine  navy  and  air  force  existed; 
total  military  strength  for  all  components  unknown,  but  estimated 
to  surpass  40,000  personnel;  armed  forces  organized  administra- 
tively into  four  military  regions  under  Ministry  of  National  Defense 
and  General  Staff  in  Phnom  Penh. 

Major  Tactical  Units  of  CGDK:  Tactical  units  deployed  usually 
comprise  platoons  or  companies,  occasionally  single  battalions. 
(People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea) :  Seven  understrength  regular/ 
main  force  divisions,  with  at  least  three  deployed  in  border  provinces 
of  western  Cambodia;  several  independent  brigades  and  regiments; 
as  many  as  four  tank  battalions,  and  combat  support  formations; 
naval  forces  one  battalion;  air  force  possibly  two  to  four  under- 
strength squadrons;  provincial/regional  forces  organized  into  bat- 
talions, generally  deployed  one  per  province,  with  greater  number 
in  border  provinces;  village  militia/local  forces  organized  into  pla- 
toons and  squads,  generally  deployed  at  subdistrict  and  village  level; 
women  heavily  represented  in  militia/local  forces. 

Major  Weapons/Equipment  of  CGDK:  Small  arms,  light  crew- 
served  weapons,  and  equipment  originating  from  China  and  pos- 
sibly from  Singapore. 

Major  Weapons/Equipment  of  PRK:  Obsolescent  tanks  of  Soviet 
or  Chinese  origin;  armored  personnel  carriers  of  Soviet  or  United 
States  origin;  light  to  medium  artillery  pieces;  small  arms  of  Soviet 
origin;  naval  forces,  small  patrol  and  amphibious  craft;  air  force, 
possibly  MiG-2 1  /FISHBED  fighter  aircraft,  and  Mi-8  (HIP)  trans- 
port helicopters. 

Security  Expenditures  of  CGDK:  Unknown;  all  military  materiel 
assumed  to  be  grant  aid  from  China  and  from  members  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN). 


xxn 


Security  Expenditures  of  PRK:  Unknown;  all  military  materiel 
assumed  to  be  grant  aid  from  Soviet  Union  and  Vietnam;  estimated 
value  of  imported  armaments  US$150  million  in  1986. 

Foreign  Troops  and  Advisers:  (People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea): 
Vietnamese  expeditionary  force  numbering  possibly  100,000  to 
200,00  troops  organized  into  10  to  12  divisions  under  4  Military 
Fronts;  Vietnamese  force  to  be  withdrawn  by  1990.  Vietnamese 
military  advisers  with  Cambodian  units  at  least  to  battalion  level; 
Warsaw  Pact  advisers  at  armed  forces  training  institutions  and  pos- 
sibly at  upper  defense  echelons. 

Internal  Security:  In  1987  insurgents  of  the  Coalition  Govern- 
ment of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  backed  by  China  and  ASEAN 
nations,  engaged  in  guerrilla  warfare  against  People's  Republic  of 
Kampuchea  government  in  Phnom  Penh,  and  Vietnamese  forces 
in  Cambodia;  some  of  country  insecure  because  of  sporadic  guer- 
rilla raids  and  ambushes,  but  guerrillas  possessed  insufficient 
strength  or  armaments  to  take  and  hold  any  urban  area  or  to  top- 
ple government. 


xxm 


Gulf  of  Thailand 


  International  boundary 

  Province  boundary 

®  National  capital 

m  Province  capital 

0  25  50  Kilometers 
0       25     50  Miles 


South  China  Sea 


Boundary  representation  not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Cambodia,  1986 


xxiv 


Introduction 


ALTHOUGH  THE  LAND  occupied  by  Cambodia  has  been 
populated  for  millennia,  the  area's  history  was  unrecorded  until 
the  Chinese  chronicles  of  the  early  Christian  era.  In  the  fewer  than 
2,000  years  of  its  imperfectly  documented  existence,  the  Cambo- 
dian state  has  evolved  along  the  lines  of  ascension,  dominance,  and 
retrogression  inherent  in  all  civilizations. 

Historians  surmise  that  by  the  first  century  A.D.  a  small  num- 
ber of  Khmer  (or  Cambodian)  states  already  existed  on  the  fringes 
of  the  earliest  recorded  state  in  the  region,  the  empire  of  Funan. 
Centered  in  the  Mekong  Delta  of  present-day  Vietnam,  Funan  de- 
rived its  power  from  commerce.  With  its  port  of  Oc  Eo  on  the  Gulf 
of  Thailand,  Funan  was  well-placed  to  control  maritime  traffic  be- 
tween India  and  China.  According  to  Chinese  annals,  Funan  was 
a  highly  developed  and  prosperous  state  with  an  extensive  canal 
system  for  transportation  and  irrigation,  a  fleet  of  naval  vessels, 
a  capital  city  with  brick  buildings,  and  a  writing  system  based  on 
Sanskrit.  The  inhabitants,  whose  adherence  to  Indian  cultural  in- 
stitutions apparently  coexisted  with  Mahayana  Buddhism,  were 
organized  into  a  highly  stratified  society. 

When  the  small  Khmer  states  to  the  northwest  of  the  Mekong 
Delta  emerged  into  recorded  history,  it  was  to  make  war  upon 
the  declining  empire  of  Funan.  Between  A.D.  550-650,  these 
Khmer  states  overran  their  adversary,  which  fell  apart,  losing  its 
tributary  states  on  the  Kra  Isthmus  and  along  the  Gulf  of  Thailand. 

Chaos  and  economic  decline  followed  the  fall  of  Funan,  but  the 
sequence  of  events  over  the  next  500  years  led  to  the  ascension  of 
the  Cambodian  state  and  its  evolution  into  an  increasingly  power- 
ful and  dynamic  entity.  The  first  unified  and  distinctiy  Khmer  polity 
to  emerge  after  Funan  was  Chenla.  It  absorbed  the  Indianized  cul- 
tural legacy  of  its  predecessor  and  established  its  capital  near  the 
Tonle  Sap  (Great  Lake),  the  heartland  of  Cambodia,  then  as  now. 
Under  expansionist  rulers,  its  authority  was  pushed  into  the  terri- 
tories of  present-day  Thailand  and  Laos.  The  development  of 
Chenla  was  not  marked  by  an  unrelieved  accretion  of  power, 
however.  Divisive  forces  quickly  resulted  in  a  split  into  Land  (or 
Upper)  Chenla  and  Water  (or  Lower)  Chenla.  Land  Chenla 
demonstrated  the  greater  vitality,  controlled  some  thirty  provin- 
cial cities,  and  sent  emissaries  to  China  under  the  Tang  dynasty. 
Water  Chenla  slipped  into  vassalage  to  Java. 


xxv 


The  historical  ascension  of  the  Khmer  polity  began  during  the 
early  800s.  The  initiator  of  the  period  was  the  first  empire  builder, 
Jayavarman  II  (A.D.  802-50),  who  carved  out  a  feudal  state  gener- 
ally encompassing  modern  Cambodia.  Jayavarman  revived  the  cult 
of  Devaraja,  an  Indianized  cultural  institution  that  was  intended 
to  confer,  through  elaborate  rituals  and  symbols,  heavenly  appro- 
bation or  even  divine  status  upon  the  ruler.  Following  the  reign 
of  Jayavarman  II,  the  two  Chenlas  were  reunited  peacefully,  and 
the  Khmer  polity  continued  to  develop,  establishing  over  time  a 
priestly  hierarchy,  an  armed  force  and  police,  a  provincial  adminis- 
tration of  subordinate  officials,  a  system  of  courts,  corvee  labor  by 
the  peasants,  and  a  capital  on  the  site  of  Angkor  near  the  Tonle  Sap. 

The  Khmer  state  reached  its  apogee  in  the  Angkorian  period — 
also  called  the  empire  of  Angkor — during  the  period  from  the 
eleventh  century  to  the  thirteenth  century,  when  it  was  ruled  by 
a  succession  of  able  monarchs.  The  last  great  monarch  of  the  Ang- 
korian period  was  Jayavarman  VII  (1181-ca.  1218).  He  reversed 
the  Cham  encroachments  that  had  taken  place  after  the  death  of 
Suryavarman  II  (1 1 13-50)  and  carried  the  war  to  the  enemy,  con- 
quering Champa  itself  and  briefly  reducing  it  to  a  Khmer  vassal 
state.  At  its  greatest  extent,  the  Angkorian  empire  of  Jayavarman 
VII  encompassed  not  only  Champa  on  the  coast  of  southern  Viet- 
nam but  also  extended  north  to  the  vicinity  of  Vientiane  in  present- 
day  Laos  and  south  to  include  the  small  trading  city-states  of  the 
Malay  Peninsula.  Jayavarman  continued  the  public  works  program 
of  his  predecessors,  uniting  his  realm  by  elevated  military  cause- 
ways with  resthouses  at  intervals.  He  also  built  hospitals  for  the 
aged  and  the  infirm  and  sponsored  the  construction  of  Angkor 
Thorn  and  the  Bayon,  the  last  major  temples  of  Angkorian  times 
and  splendid  edifices  in  their  own  right,  but  presaging  the  deca- 
dence that  shortly  set  in  (see  The  Angkorian  Period,  ch.  1). 

Jayavarman  VII' s  wars  and  public  works  exacted  a  heavy  toll 
on  the  finances  and  the  human  labor  force  of  the  Angkorian  em- 
pire. The  drain  of  resources  coincided  with  the  gradual  intrusion 
of  Theravada  Buddhism,  with  its  egalitarian  focus,  at  the  expense 
of  the  Indianized  cults  that  stressed  a  hierarchical,  stratified  soci- 
ety (see  Buddhism,  ch.  2).  Whether  it  was  this  development  or  the 
inability  of  the  Khmer  monarchs  to  command  the  fealty  of  their 
subjects  that  led  to  a  societal  breakdown  remains  open  to  conjec- 
ture. Also  coupled  with  these  internal  developments  was  the  ac- 
celerated southward  migration  of  the  Thai,  who,  dislodged  from 
their  state  in  southwestern  China  by  the  Mongols  in  the  mid- 1200s, 
flooded  into  the  Menam  Chao  Phraya  Valley.  Subject  to  internal 
and  external  pressures,  the  Khmer  state  became  unable  to  defend 


xxvi 


itself  at  the  very  time  its  enemies  were  growing  stronger.  Thai  at- 
tacks were  stepped  up  around  1350,  and  they  continued  until  Ang- 
kor itself  was  captured  and  sacked  in  1430-31 .  The  fall  of  Angkor 
ended  the  dominant  period  of  the  Khmer  state.  Thereafter,  its  bord- 
ers shrank,  and  it  controlled  little  more  than  the  area  around  the 
Tonle  Sap,  the  alluvial  plain  to  the  southeast,  and  some  territory 
west  of  the  Mekong  River.  To  the  east,  the  collapse  of  the  king- 
dom of  Champa  in  1471  opened  the  Khmer  lands  of  the  Mekong 
Delta  to  the  steady  Vietnamese  expansion  southward. 

The  long  waning  of  the  Cambodian  empire  after  the  fall  of  Ang- 
kor is  not  well  documented.  The  transfer  of  the  capital  from  the 
Angkorian  region  around  the  Tonle  Sap  to  the  vicinity  of  Phnom 
Penh  may  have  heralded  the  shift  of  emphasis  from  an  agricultural 
to  a  trading  society.  Even  with  this  change,  the  Khmer  state  re- 
tained some  of  its  vitality  into  the  seventeenth  century,  alternately 
trading  and  warring  with  its  neighbors.  By  the  eighteenth  century, 
however,  it  had  become  a  backwater  buffer  state,  existing  solely 
on  the  sufferance  of  its  increasingly  powerful  neighbors,  Thailand 
and  Vietnam.  The  imposition  of  the  French  protectorate  upon  Cam- 
bodia prevented  its  neighbors  from  swallowing  it  completely. 

Cambodia's  status  declined  further  under  the  French,  however, 
when  the  last  vestiges  of  its  sovereignty  were  lost,  especially  after 
1884,  when  Paris  imposed  another  unequal  treaty  that  went  be- 
yond the  original  protectorate  of  1863.  The  newer  pact  limited  the 
authority  of  the  king,  abolished  slavery,  stationed  colonial  officials 
in  the  countryside,  and  codified  land  ownership.  Reaction  to  the 
1884  treaty  produced  the  only  sustained  rebellion  during  colonial 
times.  Unrest  persisted  until  1886  and  was  put  down  with  troops 
from  Vietnam  (see  The  French  Protectorate,  ch.  1).  Thereafter, 
the  French  consolidated  their  grasp  on  the  country,  and  Cambo- 
dia became  merely  a  heavily  taxed,  efficient  rice-producing  colony, 
the  inhabitants  of  which  were  known  for  their  passivity. 

As  the  Southeast  Asian  colonies  of  the  European  powers  stood 
on  the  brink  of  World  War  II  in  1940  and  1941,  the  utter  power- 
lessness  of  Cambodia  was  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  it  was  com- 
pelled to  surrender  its  provinces  of  Siemreab  and  Batdambang 
(Battambang),  which  included  some  of  the  country's  most  fertile 
agricultural  area,  to  Thailand,  as  a  result  of  the  brief  Franco- 
Siamese  War.  In  addition,  some  months  later  it  was  the  French, 
not  the  Cambodians,  who  selected  the  candidate  who  would  sit  on 
the  throne  in  Phnom  Penh.  Their  choice  was  the  young  Prince 
Norodom  Sihanouk,  because  French  officials  considered  him  more 
manipulable  than  the  heir  apparent.  (Sihanouk  was  then  a  shy 
youth,  well-disposed  toward  his  role  as  figurehead  monarch,  and 


xxvn 


totally  inexperienced  in  governing.  His  formidable  international 
reputation  lay  far  in  the  future.) 

In  March  1945,  the  Japanese  swept  aside  the  Vichy  French  ad- 
ministration in  Cambodia  (as  elsewhere  in  Indochina),  and  they 
induced  the  young  king  to  proclaim  independence.  The  event 
offered  little  occasion  for  euphoria,  however.  The  Japanese  re- 
mained in  control,  and  then,  after  the  Japanese  surrender,  the 
French  returned  to  reimpose  their  authority,  granting  the  Cam- 
bodians, as  consolation  prizes  in  early  1946,  the  right  to  have  a 
constitution  and  the  right  to  form  political  parties. 

In  the  late  1940s  and  the  early  1950s,  the  struggle  for  indepen- 
dence in  Cambodia  took  place  on  several  levels.  Two  political  parties 
were  formed  under  princes  of  the  royal  house.  The  Liberal  Party, 
the  more  conservative  of  the  two,  advocated  an  evolutionary  ap- 
proach to  independence.  The  Democratic  Party,  the  more  radical 
one,  favored  the  rapid  attainment  of  independence  and  the  for- 
mation of  whatever  political  alliances  might  be  necessary.  Under- 
ground, Cambodian  guerrillas  took  to  the  jungles  to  fight  the 
returning  French.  The  Khmer  Issarak  (see  Appendix  B),  as  these 
guerrillas  were  called,  encompassed  disaffected  Cambodians  from 
across  the  entire  political  spectrum.  Meanwhile,  the  French 
managed  to  secure  the  return  of  Cambodia's  two  provinces  lost 
to  Thailand  in  1941.  In  1949,  under  increasing  military  pressure 
from  the  Viet  Minh  (see  Appendix  B)  in  neighboring  Vietnam, 
the  French  granted  Cambodia  qualified  self-government  in  certain 
areas  and  an  autonomous  zone  in  Batdambang  and  Siemreab. 

Sihanouk  continued  the  political  struggle  above  ground,  embark- 
ing upon  a  campaign  for  independence.  Using  a  combination  of 
private  and  public  initiatives  and  grandiose  gestures,  he  exacted 
grudging  concessions  from  a  French  government  increasingly  hard- 
pressed  in  Indochina  by  its  war  against  the  Viet  Minh.  In  November 
1953,  Sihanouk  announced  dramatically  that  independence  had 
been  gained,  and  he  returned  triumphantly  from  Paris  to  Phnom 
Penh. 

Sihanouk  quickly  emerged  as  a  leader  of  stature  in  his  newly 
independent  country.  In  an  effort  to  gain  a  freer  hand  in  the  poli- 
tics of  his  nation,  a  role  he  was  not  permitted  to  play  as  the  ruler 
in  a  constitutional  monarchy,  he  abdicated  the  throne  in  1955  and 
formed  a  political  movement,  the  Popular  Socialist  Community 
(Sangkum  Riastre  Niyum,  or  Sangkum).  With  control  of  the  Sang- 
kum,  Sihanouk  succeeded  in  having  himself  named  both  chief  of 
state  and  head  of  government.  For  nearly  sixteen  years,  from  1954 
to  1970,  he  dominated  Cambodian  politics  and  ruled  at  the  head 
of  a  highly  authoritarian  and  centralized  government. 


xxvin 


In  the  countryside,  Sihanouk  kept  the  support  of  the  people 
through  his  charismatic  personality,  his  highly  visible  personal 
forays  among  the  rural  peasantry,  and  his  adherence  to  the  tradi- 
tional symbols  and  institutions  of  the  Khmer  monarchy,  such  as 
public  audiences  and  participation  in  time-honored  ceremonies. 
Among  the  politicized  urban  elite,  Sihanouk  maintained  power  and 
kept  his  opponents  off-balance  through  a  range  of  manipulative 
stratagems,  pitting  them  against  one  another  when  he  could  and 
co-opting  them  with  government  positions  when  he  could  not. 

In  spite  of  Sihanouk's  efforts,  the  situation  in  Cambodia  began 
to  go  awry  in  the  mid-  to  late  1960s.  Internally,  the  country  had 
been  savaged  by  economic  reverses.  The  budget  was  chronically 
in  deficit;  United  States  aid  had  been  terminated;  and  state  social- 
ism had  stifled  development  (see  Sihanouk's  Peacetime  Economy 
1953-70,  ch.  3).  Prices  for  Cambodia's  export  commodities — rice 
and  rubber — were  declining.  Numerous  members  of  the  youthful, 
educated  elite  were  underemployed  and  dissatisfied.  Among  the 
politicized  middle  class,  the  military  leadership,  the  intellectuals, 
and  the  students,  opposition  was  developing  to  Sihanouk's 
authoritarianism.  In  the  countryside,  heavy  taxation  had  ignited 
the  shortlived  Samlot  Rebellion  in  Batdambang  Province.  Although 
suppressed  ruthlessly,  it  refused  to  die  out,  and  smoldered  on  in 
remote  corners  of  Cambodia.  Disaffected  elements  still  were  at  large, 
and  some  of  the  country  remained  insecure.  The  radical  wing  of 
the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  Communist  Party,  (KCP — see 
Appendix  B),  led  by  Saloth  Sar  (later  to  be  known  as  Pol  Pot), 
had  gone  underground  and  had  taken  up  arms,  unleashing  its  own 
insurgency  against  the  Sihanouk  regime.  In  the  northeast,  minority 
ethnic  groups  were  alienated  from  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh 
because  of  its  corvee  labor,  forced  resettlement,  and  assimilationist 
policies  (see  Cambodia  under  Sihanouk,  1954-70,  ch.  1). 

Internationally,  the  picture  was  not  much  better.  Sihanouk  tried 
to  maintain  a  nonaligned  course  in  the  country's  foreign  policy. 
During  its  first  decade  of  independence,  Cambodia  had  received 
aid  from  East  and  from  West,  and  it  was  respected  internationally. 
In  the  mid-  to  late  1960s,  however,  this  neutrality  was  fast  erod- 
ing, and  Cambodia  was  about  to  be  engulfed  by  the  war  in  neigh- 
boring Vietnam.  The  country  rapidly  was  becoming  a  logistical 
rear  area  and  a  safe  haven  for  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong 
(see  Appendix  B)  forces  fighting  the  Saigon  government.  Cambo- 
dia was  exposed  to  cross-border  forays  and  airstrikes  from  South 
Vietnam  to  neutralize  these  enemy  installations.  The  Cambodian 
port  of  Kampong  Saom  also  was  becoming  the  terminus  for  Chinese 
weapons  and  supplies  that  were  then  trucked,  sometimes  in 


xx  ix 


Cambodian  army  vehicles,  overland  to  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet 
Cong  supply  depots. 

Sihanouk  sought  to  adjust  to  the  prevailing  trends  in  Indochina. 
He  sought  to  distance  Cambodia  from  South  Vietnam  and  accepted 
accommodation  with  North  Vietnam  and  with  the  National  Front 
for  the  Liberation  of  South  Vietnam  (NFLSVN — see  Appendix 
B),  the  political  arm  of  the  Viet  Cong.  He  broke  relations  with 
Washington,  looked  for  support  to  Beijing — which  was  then  dis- 
tracted by  its  Cultural  Revolution,  and  then  resumed  ties  with 
Washington. 

Events  in  Cambodia  were  moving  out  of  control,  however.  When 
Sihanouk  went  abroad  for  a  lengthy  sojourn  in  January  1970  to 
solicit  Soviet  and  Chinese  assistance  in  curbing  the  presence  of 
North  Vietnamese  sanctuaries  on  Cambodian  territory,  domestic 
opposition  to  his  regime  became  more  outspoken  and  soon  acquired 
a  momentum  of  its  own.  The  entire  Cambodian  National  Assem- 
bly, led  by  a  rightist  cabinet  under  Premier  Lon  Nol,  voted  on 
March  22  to  bar  the  return  of  Sihanouk  to  the  country.  Cambo- 
dia's first  post-independence  era  thus  ended,  and  the  country  soon 
was  plunged  into  a  period  of  war,  chaos,  and  human  suffering 
perhaps  unparalleled  in  its  history. 

The  Lon  Nol  government  that  succeeded  the  fall  of  Sihanouk 
quickly  abolished  the  monarchy  and  proclaimed  itself  the  Khmer 
Republic  (see  Appendix  B).  It  initially  enjoyed  wide  support  among 
the  urban  population,  but  it  soon  proved  itself  unequal  to  the  tasks 
of  governing  and  defending  the  country  and  capturing  the  allegiance 
of  the  Cambodian  masses.  The  new  government  in  Phnom  Penh 
began  by  fanning  anti- Vietnamese  sentiment  among  the  Khmer 
population,  as  a  result  of  which  countless  numbers  of  civilian  Viet- 
namese migrants  in  Cambodia  were  massacred.  The  government 
then  turned  against  the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet  Cong  by 
calling  publicly  for  their  ouster  from  Cambodia  and  by  initiating 
ineffectual  military  operations  against  them.  Shortly  thereafter,  an 
offensive  military  thrust  of  the  United  States  and  South  Vietnam 
into  Cambodia  dislodged  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong  units 
from  their  border  sanctuaries;  instead  of  driving  them  away  from 
Cambodian  territory,  however,  it  pushed  them  deeper  into  the 
country,  where  they  soon  swept  before  them  the  ill-trained,  ill- 
armed,  and  totally  inexperienced  Cambodian  republican  forces. 

At  the  same  time,  two  concurrent  developments  conspired  to 
erode  further  the  shaky  position  of  the  Khmer  Republic.  The  first 
was  that  Sihanouk  established  a  government-in-exile  in  Beijing, 
where  he  had  fled  following  his  ouster.  There,  he  raised  the  stan- 
dard of  revolt  against  the  republican  regime  in  Phnom  Penh,  and 

xxx 


he  united  in  a  common  front  with  the  armed  Khmer  communist 
rebels.  Both  sides  saw  the  advantages  to  such  an  alliance  of  con- 
venience. The  Cambodian  communists,  dubbed  the  Khmer  Rouge 
(see  Appendix  B)  by  Sihanouk,  had  ignited  a  small-scale  insurgency 
in  early  1968,  but  they  had  not  been  able  to  move  beyond  their 
redoubts  in  remote  corners  of  Cambodia  or  to  gain  mass  support 
in  their  first  two  years.  Their  alliance  with  Sihanouk,  in  a  broad 
resistance  front  called  the  National  United  Front  of  Kampuchea 
(Front  Uni  National  du  Kampuchea — FUNK — see  Appendix  B), 
transformed  their  forlorn  rebellion,  which  was  aided  by  Washing- 
ton, into  a  war  of  national  liberation  against  a  puppet  regime  in 
Phnom  Penh.  At  the  same  time,  Sihanouk's  name  attracted  to  the 
FUNK  cause  Cambodians  of  every  political  persuasion,  includ- 
ing many  people  without  communist  antecedents. 

The  second  development,  one  with  equally  serious  consequences 
for  the  Khmer  Republic,  was  that  the  North  Vietnamese  quickly 
undertook  the  training  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  guerrillas  to  trans- 
form them  into  a  conventional  fighting  force.  While  this  training 
program  was  underway,  North  Vietnamese  units  temporarily  as- 
sumed the  burden  of  keeping  the  Khmer  republican  forces  at  bay, 
an  effort  that  did  not  tax  them  unduly.  By  1973  the  Khmer  Rouge 
were  conducting  most  combat  operations  against  the  Phnom  Penh 
government  by  themselves. 

The  ill-fated  Khmer  Republic  was  unable  to  defend  itself.  By 
1971  it  was  on  the  defensive,  and  it  was  losing  ground  steadily. 
Fleeing  the  fighting  in  the  countryside,  peasant  refugees  crowded 
into  the  government's  shrinking  strongholds  around  Phnom  Penh 
and  the  provincial  centers.  Lon  Nol's  inept  and  corrupt  regime 
went  from  one  military  defeat  to  another.  By  early  1975,  the  situ- 
ation of  the  Khmer  Republic  was  so  precarious  that  Phnom  Penh 
itself  was  invaded,  and  government  control  was  limited  to  the 
provincial  centers  and  to  a  patch  of  territory  in  western  Cambodia 
around  the  Tonle  Sap.  In  the  following  months,  the  Khmer  Rouge 
steadily  tightened  the  noose  around  the  capital  until  all  escape  routes 
were  cut  off,  and  resistance  collapsed.  The  fall  of  Phnom  Penh  in 
April  1975  marked  the  end  of  the  Khmer  Republic  (see  The  Fall 
of  Phnom  Penh,  ch.  1). 

For  the  Cambodian  people,  the  entry  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  into 
the  capital  began  the  grimmest  period  in  Cambodia's  long  history. 
The  Khmer  Rouge  rulers  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  as  the  regime 
that  supplanted  the  Khmer  Republic  was  called,  envisioned  a  to- 
tally self-sufficient  Cambodia.  This  self-sufficiency  was  to  be  achieved 
by  accelerated  agricultural  production,  which  in  turn  would  pro- 
vide the  wherewithal  to  develop  the  other  sectors  of  the  economy. 


xxxi 


Self-sufficiency,  however,  was  pursued  with  such  single-minded 
ruthlessness  that  between  1  million  and  3  million  persons  died  be- 
cause of  purges,  beatings,  malnourishment,  and  overwork.  To  head 
off  opposition  to  economic  and  social  restructuring,  the  new  re- 
gime hunted  down  and  executed  virtually  anyone  who  had  served 
the  former  government.  The  regime  emptied  the  cities  of  inhabi- 
tants and  forced  the  entire  population  into  rudimentary,  badly  or- 
ganized collectives  in  the  countryside;  untold  numbers  died,  worked 
to  death  under  slave  labor  conditions  or  executed  for  minor  infrac- 
tions of  camp  discipline.  At  the  same  time,  the  regime  nurtured 
an  acute  paranoia  that  brooked  no  potential  opposition  but  that 
prompted  it  to  eradicate  the  educated  middle  class  of  Cambodia. 
When  this  eradication  was  accomplished,  it  turned  on  its  own  cadres 
at  every  echelon,  torturing  and  executing  thousands  (see  Revolu- 
tionary Terror,  ch.  1).  The  regime's  ruthless  extermination  of  op- 
ponents, however,  could  not  ensure  its  security;  ultimately  its  own 
paranoia  brought  it  down. 

Regionally,  the  Khmer  Rouge  paranoia  manifested  itself  in  the 
exacerbation  of  tensions  with  Vietnam.  During  the  war  against  the 
United  States  and  its  allies,  commonalities  of  enemy  and  of  ideol- 
ogy had  enabled  the  Vietnamese  and  the  Cambodians  to  bridge 
their  mutual  distrust.  After  April  1975,  however,  with  the  xenopho- 
bic Pol  Pot  factions  of  the  KCP  in  control  in  Phnom  Penh,  the 
traditional  Cambodian  antipathy  for  the  Vietnamese  reemerged. 
The  source  of  the  friction  was  the  recurrent  cross-border  forays 
by  combatants  from  both  sides  into  the  Mekong  Delta  and  the 
Parrot's  Beak  area.  The  Khmer  Rouge  regime  viewed  itself  as  threa- 
tened, its  territory  violated  by  Vietnam.  Hanoi  in  turn  felt  com- 
pelled to  deploy  substantial  military  assets  along  the  border,  as 
fighting  continued  to  erupt  on  both  sides  of  the  frontier.  By 
mid- 1978  Hanoi's  patience  was  rapidly  running  out,  as  it  became 
obliged  to  commit  division-sized  units  to  pacification  missions  along 
the  Cambodian  border. 

Sometime  in  the  fall  of  1978,  the  leadership  in  Hanoi  decided 
to  mount  a  multi-division  punitive  expedition  into  Cambodia.  To 
lend  a  veneer  of  political  legitimacy  to  this  military  undertaking, 
Hanoi  sponsored  the  establishment  of  an  anti-Pol  Pot  movement 
called  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  National  United  Front  for  Na- 
tional Salvation  (KNUFNS — see  Appendix  B),  made  up  of  fugi- 
tive Cambodians  who  had  fled  the  Khmer  Rouge.  Accompanied 
by  token  KNUFNS  units,  the  Vietnamese  launched  their  military 
campaign  into  Cambodia  in  late  December  1978  (see  Vietnamese 
Invasion  of  Cambodia,  ch.  5).  The  Khmer  Rouge  proved  surpris- 
ingly vulnerable  to  the  onslaught,  and  Phnom  Penh  fell  to  Hanoi's 


xxxn 


forces  in  early  January  1979.  The  Khmer  Rouge,  defeated  militarily 
for  the  time  being,  but  not  destroyed,  ignited  a  persistent  insur- 
gency in  the  remote  regions  of  Cambodia.  The  country  then  em- 
barked upon  a  decade-long  period  of  fitful  rehabilitation,  made  more 
precarious  by  the  lack  of  resources,  the  enduring  guerilla  war,  and 
the  military  occupation  by  Vietnam. 

It  was  evident  that  the  institutions  of  the  new  Cambodian  re- 
gime, which  called  itself  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea 
(PRK — see  Appendix  B),  were  virtually  identical  to  those  of  Viet- 
nam. In  the  PRK,  only  a  single,  pro- Vietnamese  political  party 
was  permitted.  This  party,  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 
Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B),  was  headed  by 
a  political  bureau  with  a  secretariat  and  a  general  secretary  in 
charge.  It  also  had  a  central  committee  with  a  control  commission 
to  handle  day-by-day  affairs  (see  The  Kampuchean,  or  Khmer, 
People's  Revolutionary  Party,  ch.  4).  The  party  was  backed  by 
a  mass  movement — the  successor  to  KNUFNS,  the  Kampuchean 
(or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National  Construction  and  Defense 
(KUFNCD — see  Appendix  B)  and  by  a  number  of  front  organi- 
zations such  as  labor,  women's,  and  youth  groups.  As  in  Vietnam, 
party  and  government  were  intertwined:  the  same  individuals  held 
concurrent  leadership  positions  in  both  sectors.  The  Council  of  State 
was  the  highest  government  body;  it  reserved  to  itself  the  major 
decision-making  authority.  A  Council  of  Ministers  exercised  cabinet 
functions  and  was  responsible  to  a  National  Assembly  elected  from 
KPRP  members.  The  National  Assembly  heard  reports  from 
ministers  and  from  the  rest  of  national  leadership,  but  appeared 
to  exercise  little  legislative  authority  (see  Government  Structure, 
ch.  4). 

Cambodian  rehabilitation  and  development  were  hampered  by 
the  civil  war  that  plagued  the  country  after  the  ouster  of  the  Khmer 
Rouge.  When  the  Vietnamese  drove  Pol  Pot  from  power  in  their 
December  1978  invasion,  they  failed  to  administer  the  coup  de  grace 
to  their  adversaries,  who  regrouped  their  forces  and  initiated  a  guer- 
rilla war  against  Hanoi's  occupation  forces.  Despite  their  odious 
reputation  and  their  abominable  human  rights  record,  the  Khmer 
Rouge  were  able  to  attract  guerrilla  recruits  to  their  ranks.  The 
Khmer  Rouge  applied  the  same  coercive  measures  in  the  remote 
areas  of  Cambodia  under  their  control  as  those  they  had  used  when 
they  ruled  all  of  Cambodia,  and  they  cast  themselves  as  the  sole 
nationalistic  force  opposing  the  Vietnamese  occupation  of  Cam- 
bodia. In  terms  of  the  number  of  combatants  they  could  muster, 
the  Khmer  Rouge,  throughout  the  decade-long  civil  war,  continued 
to  be  the  largest  single  guerrilla  force  in  the  field. 


xxxm 


For  many  Cambodians,  however,  the  option  of  joining  either 
the  Khmer  Rouge  or  the  Vietnamese-installed  regime  was  a  Hob- 
son's  choice.  Consequently,  soon  after  Hanoi's  invasion,  two 
additional  insurgent  movements  arose  among  the  Khmer  refugees 
who  had  fled  both  Hanoi's  and  Pol  Pot's  forces.  One  of  these  move- 
ments coalesced  around  the  elderly  nationalistic  figure  of  Son  Sann, 
a  cabinet  minister  under  Sihanouk.  Son  Sann's  movement  took 
the  name  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Front  (KPNLF — 
see  Appendix  B),  and  its  armed  wing  was  called  the  Khmer  Peo- 
ple's National  Liberation  Armed  Forces  (KPNLAF — see  Appen- 
dix B).  In  the  meantime,  a  third  insurgent  force  rallied  under 
Sihanouk  and  his  son  Prince  Norodom  Ranariddh.  Sihanouk's 
political  movement  was  called  for  the  National  United  Front  for 
an  Independent,  Neutral,  Peaceful,  and  Cooperative  Cambodia 
(Front  Uni  National  pour  un  Cambodge  Independent,  Neutre, 
Pacifique,  et  Cooperatif—  FUNCINPEC— see  Appendix  B),  and 
his  armed  wing,  the  Sihanouk  National  Army  (Armee  Nationale 
Sihanoukiste — ANS — see  Appendix  B). 

The  three  insurgent  forces  maintained  their  own  separate  struc- 
tures; they  initiated  their  own  guerrilla  campaigns  against  the  PRK 
regime  in  Phnom  Penh  and  its  Vietnamese  mentors.  After  several 
years  of  sustained  pressure  from  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  (ASEAN)  to  form  a  unified  front  against  the  Vietnamese 
occupiers,  the  Khmer  insurgent  movements  came  together  in  an 
uneasy  union,  the  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea (CGDK — see  Appendix  B),  in  mid- 1982.  Sihanouk  was 
chosen  president  of  the  CGDK;  during  the  succeeding  years,  he 
launched  an  unending  series  of  attempts  to  bring  reconciliation  to 
his  divided  country  and  to  achieve  some  power- sharing  arrange- 
ment agreeable  to  all  four  warring  Khmer  factions.  Although  the 
methods  for  achieving  peace  in  Cambodia  remained  in  dispute, 
there  was  agreement  that  the  Vietnamese  occupation  forces  must 
depart  and  that  the  Khmer  Rouge  must  never  again  reimpose  its 
brutal  rule  over  Cambodia. 

Cambodia's  civil  war  had  an  international  dimension  as  well. 
Arrayed  on  one  side  were  the  PRK,  its  Vietnamese  allies  who  did 
much  of  the  fighting,  and,  by  proxy,  the  Soviet  Union.  Arrayed 
on  the  other  side  were  the  CGDK,  its  ASEAN  supporters,  and 
China.  Vietnam  was  involved  because  it  had  placed  the  PRK  in 
power  and  because  it  feared  being  caught  between  a  hostile  China 
and  a  pro-Chinese  Khmer  Rouge  regime.  The  Soviet  Union  was 
involved  because  of  its  treaty  relationship  with  Hanoi  and  because 
it  provided  much  of  the  military  hardware  used  by  the  PRK  and 
by  the  Vietnamese.  ASEAN  was  involved  because  it  feared  a  heavily 


xxxiv 


armed,  expansionist  Vietnamese  state,  which  might  not  stop  at  con- 
quest of  the  Indochinese  Peninsula.  China  was  involved  and  be- 
came the  chief  supporter  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  faction  in  the  CGDK 
because  it  saw  the  PRK  and  Vietnam  as  two  more  links  in  the  chain 
of  Soviet  client  states  being  forged  around  it. 

As  the  1980s  closed,  there  were  hopeful  signs  that  the  situation 
in  Cambodia  might  not  be  as  intractable  as  it  had  seemed  in  previ- 
ous years.  For  example,  the  international  environment  had  changed 
considerably.  Soviet  withdrawals  from  Afghanistan  and  Mongo- 
lia, as  well  as  the  renewed  dialogue  between  Moscow  and  Beijing, 
culminating  in  a  Sino-Soviet  summit  in  May  1989,  allayed  to  some 
extent  Beijing's  fears  of  encirclement  by  client  states  of  Moscow. 
China  itself  stepped  back  from  its  support  of  the  Khmer  Rouge 
regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  as  the  sole  legitimate  government 
of  Cambodia,  and  seemingly  accepted  the  Vietnamese-installed 
Phnom  Penh  regime  as  a  partner  in  any  postwar  government.  The 
United  States  continued  to  oppose  the  return  of  the  Khmer  Rouge 
to  a  position  of  dominance  in  a  future  government,  but  appeared 
to  acquiesce  in  a  power- sharing  arrangement  between  the  Phnom 
Penh  regime  and  the  non-communist  resistance.  Vietnam  stepped 
up  the  pace  of  its  troop  withdrawal  from  Cambodia,  ending  its 
decade  of  occupation  in  September  1989 — a  year  ahead  of  time. 

Among  the  four  competing  Khmer  factions  who  remained  at  an 
impasse  over  power-sharing  in  a  post-occupation  Cambodia,  in- 
formal meetings  in  Jakarta  in  February  and  May  1989  produced 
a  useful  dialogue,  but  little  agreement  on  matters  of  substance.  The 
PRK,  in  an  effort  to  attract  the  support  of  Prince  Sihanouk  and 
the  non-communist  resistance  and  to  isolate  the  Khmer  Rouge, 
amended  the  Constitution  and  changed  the  name  of  the  country, 
the  flag,  and  the  national  anthem  in  April  1989.  The  amended  Con- 
stitution, however,  upheld  the  dominant  position  of  the  incumbent 
Kampuchean,  or  Khmer,  People's  Revolutionary  Party,  and  made 
no  provision  for  the  establishment  of  a  multi-party  system  in  the 
newly  named  State  of  Cambodia.  As  a  result  of  these  cosmetic 
gestures,  plus  a  series  of  meetings  between  Prince  Sihanouk  and 
Prime  Minister  Hun  Sen,  as  well  as  conciliatory  utterances  by 
Khmer  Rouge  leaders,  the  differences  among  all  sides  seem  to  have 
narrowed,  and  the  hopes  for  a  successful  resolution  of  the  Cambo- 
dian situation  seemed  to  have  progressed  sufficientiy  for  the  French 
government  to  convene  the  Paris  International  Conference  on  Cam- 
bodia from  July  30  to  August  30,  1989. 

The  optimism  on  the  eve  of  the  conference — attended  by  nineteen 
countries  including  the  United  States,  as  well  as  the  UN  Secretary 
General  and  the  four  rival  Cambodian  factions,  proved  to  be 


XXXV 


ill-founded.  The  forum  expired  amid  the  intransigence  of  the  Khmer 
factions  on  five  basic  issues:  verification  of  the  Vietnamese  troop 
withdrawal;  establishment  of  provisions  for  a  ceasefire  in  the  fight- 
ing; determination  of  the  status  of  Vietnamese  residents  in  Cam- 
bodia; official  characterization  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  period  as  a 
genocide;  and  the  establishment  of  a  power-sharing  arrangement 
among  the  four  factions.  The  latter  issue  proved  to  be  the  major 
stumbling  block.  The  non-communist  resistance  headed  by  Prince 
Sihanouk  lobbied  for  the  inclusion  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  on  the 
grounds  that  they  already  exercised  a  decisive  presence  in  Cam- 
bodian affairs  and  that  their  exclusion  from  a  future  government 
would  lead  inevitably  to  a  civil  war  between  them  and  the  coali- 
tion that  opposed  them.  The  Phnom  Penh  regime  countered  that 
to  include  the  Khmer  Rouge  in  a  postwar  government  would  lead 
to  a  repetition  of  the  cruelty  and  repression  they  wrought  during 
the  Democratic  Kampuchea  period.  Thus,  the  impasse  continued, 
and  the  failure  of  the  Paris  conference  brought  negotiations  to  an 
end  for  the  time  being.  The  State  of  Cambodia,  in  a  preliminary 
fashion,  however,  cast  about  for  a  renewal  of  the  dialogue  by  recon- 
vening informal  talks  in  Jakarta. 

In  the  meantime,  pessimistic  forecasts  of  a  civil  war  in  Cambo- 
dia following  the  Paris  conference,  the  Vietnamese  troop  with- 
drawal, and  the  end  of  the  dry  season,  seemed  to  be  borne  out. 
On  the  western  frontier  with  Thailand,  Khmer  resistance  forces 
took  to  the  field  with  renewed  aggressiveness,  capturing  in  succes- 
sion a  number  of  border  towns.  The  single-minded  purposefulness 
of  the  Khmer  Rouge  in  the  rebel  offensive  came  as  no  surprise. 
What  astonished  foreign  observers,  however,  was  the  unexpected 
combativeness  of  the  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Armed 
Forces,  which  in  previous  years  had  been  reduced  to  ineffectuality 
by  the  bickering  of  its  leaders.  As  this  book  goes  to  press,  the  Thai- 
Cambodian  border  remains  in  turmoil,  with  the  Phnom  Penh  re- 
gime in  a  defensive  posture — increasingly  hard-pressed  to  contain 
rebel  actions  and  confronting  increased  speculation  from  foreign 
observers  as  to  whether  it  can  hold  its  own  or  indeed  survive  without 
outside  help. 


December  28,  1989  Russell  R.  Ross 

Andrea  Maties  Savada 


xxxvi 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


gate  of  the  Angkor  Thorn  temple  complex,  circa  A  D.  1200 


THE  KHMER  PEOPLE  were  among  the  first  in  Southeast  Asia 
to  adopt  religious  ideas  and  political  institutions  from  India  and 
to  establish  centralized  kingdoms  encompassing  large  territories. 
The  earliest  known  kingdom  in  the  area,  Funan,  flourished  from 
around  the  first  century  to  the  sixth  century  A.D.  It  was  succeeded 
by  Chenla,  which  controlled  large  areas  of  modern  Cambodia,  Viet- 
nam, Laos,  and  Thailand  (known  as  Siam  until  1939).  The  golden 
age  of  Khmer  civilization,  however,  was  the  period  from  the  ninth 
to  the  thirteenth  century,  when  the  kingdom  of  Kambuja,  which 
gave  Kampuchea,  or  Cambodia,  its  name,  ruled  large  territories 
from  its  capital  in  the  region  of  Angkor  in  western  Cambodia. 

Under  Jay avarman  VII  (1181-ca.  1218),  Kambuja  reached  its 
zenith  of  political  power  and  cultural  creativity.  Following  Jay  avar- 
man VII's  death,  Kambuja  experienced  gradual  decline.  Important 
factors  were  the  aggressiveness  of  neighboring  peoples  (especially 
the  Thai,  or  Siamese),  chronic  interdynastic  strife,  and  the  gradual 
deterioration  of  the  complex  irrigation  system  that  had  ensured  rice 
surpluses.  The  Angkorian  monarchy  survived  until  1431,  when  the 
Thai  captured  Angkor  Thorn  and  the  Cambodian  king  fled  to  the 
southern  part  of  his  country. 

The  fifteenth  century  to  the  nineteenth  century  was  a  period  of 
continued  decline  and  territorial  loss.  Cambodia  enjoyed  a  brief 
period  of  prosperity  during  the  sixteenth  century  because  its  kings, 
who  built  their  capitals  in  the  region  southeast  of  the  Tonle  Sap 
(Great  Lake)  along  the  Mekong  River,  promoted  trade  with  other 
parts  of  Asia.  This  was  the  period  when  Spanish  and  Portuguese 
adventurers  and  missionaries  first  visited  the  country.  But  the  Thai 
conquest  of  the  new  capital  at  Lovek  in  1 594  marked  a  downturn 
in  the  country's  fortunes,  and  Cambodia  became  a  pawn  in  power 
struggles  between  its  two  increasingly  powerful  neighbors,  Siam 
and  Vietnam.  Vietnam's  settlement  of  the  Mekong  Delta  led  to 
its  annexation  of  that  area  at  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
Cambodia  thereby  lost  some  of  its  richest  territory  and  was  cut  off 
from  the  sea.  Such  foreign  encroachments  continued  through  the 
first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  because  Vietnam  was  determined 
to  absorb  Khmer  land  and  to  force  the  inhabitants  to  accept  Viet- 
namese culture.  Such  imperialistic  policies  created  in  the  Khmer 
an  abiding  suspicion  of  their  eastern  neighbors  that  flared  into 
violent  confrontation  after  the  Khmer  Rouge  (see  Appendix  B) 
established  its  regime  in  1975. 


3 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

In  1863  King  Norodom  signed  an  agreement  with  the  French 
to  establish  a  protectorate  over  his  kingdom.  The  country  gradu- 
ally came  under  French  colonial  domination.  During  World  War 
II,  the  Japanese  allowed  the  French  government  (based  at  Vichy) 
that  collaborated  with  the  Nazis  to  continue  administering  Cam- 
bodia and  the  other  Indochinese  territories,  but  they  also  fostered 
Khmer  nationalism.  Cambodia  enjoyed  a  brief  period  of  indepen- 
dence in  1945  before  Allied  troops  restored  French  control.  King 
Norodom  Sihanouk,  who  had  been  chosen  by  France  to  succeed 
King  Monivong  in  1941,  rapidly  assumed  a  central  political  role 
as  he  sought  to  neutralize  leftist  and  republican  opponents  and 
attempted  to  negotiate  acceptable  terms  for  independence  from  the 
French.  Sihanouk's  4 'royal  crusade  for  independence"  resulted  in 
grudging  French  acquiescence  to  his  demands  for  a  transfer  of 
sovereignty.  A  partial  agreement  was  struck  in  October  1953. 
Sihanouk  then  declared  that  independence  had  been  achieved  and 
returned  in  triumph  to  Phnom  Penh.  The  following  year,  as  a  result 
of  the  Geneva  Conference  on  Indochina,  Cambodia  was  able  to 
bring  about  the  withdrawal  of  the  Viet  Minh  (see  Appendix  B) 
troops  from  its  territory  and  to  withstand  any  residual  impinge- 
ment upon  its  sovereignty  by  external  powers. 

In  order  to  play  a  more  active  role  in  national  politics,  Sihanouk 
abdicated  in  1955  and  placed  his  father,  Norodom  Suramarit,  on 
the  throne.  Now  only  a  prince,  Sihanouk  organized  his  own  polit- 
ical movement,  the  Popular  Socialist  Community,  (Sangkum  Reastr 
Niyum,  or  Sangkum),  which  won  all  the  seats  in  the  National 
Assembly  in  the  1955  election.  The  Sangkum  dominated  the 
political  scene  until  the  late  1960s.  Sihanouk's  highly  personal  ruling 
style  made  him  immensely  popular  with  the  people,  especially  in 
rural  villages.  Although  the  Sangkum  was  backed  by  conservative 
interests,  Sihanouk  included  leftists  in  his  government,  three  of 
whom — Khieu  Samphan,  Hou  Yuon,  and  Hu  Nim — later  became 
leaders  of  the  Khmer  Rouge.  In  1963  he  announced  the  nationali- 
zation of  banking,  foreign  trade,  and  insurance  in  a  socialist 
experiment  that  dried  up  foreign  investment  and  alienated  the  right 
wing.  In  foreign  relations,  Sihanouk  pursued  a  policy  of  neutral- 
ity and  nonalignment.  He  accepted  United  States  economic  and 
military  aid,  but  he  also  promoted  close  relations  with  China  and 
attempted  to  keep  on  good  terms  with  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  Vietnam  (North  Vietnam).  The  principal  objectives  of  his  for- 
eign policy  were  to  preserve  Cambodia's  independence  and  to  keep 
the  country  out  of  the  widening  conflict  in  neighboring  Vietnam. 
Relations  with  Washington  grew  stormy  in  the  early  1960s.  In  1963 


Historical  Setting 


the  prince  rejected  further  United  States  aid,  and,  two  years  later, 
he  severed  diplomatic  relations. 

Both  the  domestic  and  the  international  situations  had  deterio- 
rated by  the  late  1960s.  The  increasingly  powerful  right  wing 
challenged  Sihanouk's  control  of  the  political  system.  Peasant  resent- 
ment over  harsh  tax  collection  measures  and  the  expropriation  of 
land  to  build  a  sugar  refinery  led  to  a  violent  revolt  in  1967  in  the 
northwestern  province  of  Batdambang  (Battambang).  The  armed 
forces,  commanded  by  General  Lon  Nol  (who  was  also  prime 
minister),  quelled  the  revolt,  but  a  communist-led  insurgency  spread 
throughout  the  country.  The  spillover  of  the  Second  Indochina  War 
(or  Vietnam  War)  into  the  Cambodian  border  areas  also  was  be- 
coming a  serious  problem.  Apparently  one  factor  in  Sihanouk's 
decision  to  reestablish  relations  with  Washington  in  1969  was  his 
fear  of  further  incursions  by  the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet 
Cong  (see  Appendix  B).  In  March  1970,  however,  he  was  over- 
thrown by  General  Lon  Nol  and  other  right-wing  leaders,  who  seven 
months  later  abolished  the  monarchy  and  established  the  Khmer 
Republic  (see  Appendix  B). 

The  Khmer  Republic  faced  not  only  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet 
Cong  combat  units  but  also  an  effective,  homegrown  communist 
movement  that  grew  more  lethal  as  time  went  on.  The  Cambo- 
dian communists,  whom  Sihanouk  had  labeled  Khmer  Rouge, 
traced  their  movement  back  to  the  struggle  for  independence  and 
the  creation  in  1951,  under  Vietnamese  auspices,  of  the  Kam- 
puchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see 
Appendix  B).  During  the  early  1960s,  however,  a  group  of  Paris- 
trained  communist  intellectuals,  of  whom  the  most  important  were 
Saloth  Sar  (known  as  Pol  Pot  after  1976),  Khieu  Samphan,  and 
Ieng  Sary,  seized  control  of  the  party.  They  gradually  purged  or 
neutralized  rivals  whom  they  considered  too  subservient  to  Viet- 
nam. After  the  March  1970  coup  d'etat  that  toppled  Sihanouk, 
the  Khmer  Rouge  formed  a  united  front  with  the  ousted  leader, 
a  move  that  won  them  the  goodwill  of  peasants  who  were  still  loyal 
to  the  prince. 

Despite  massive  United  States  aid  to  the  newly  proclaimed 
Khmer  Republic  and  the  bombing  of  North  Vietnamese  and  Khmer 
Rouge  installations  and  troop  concentrations  in  the  countryside, 
the  Phnom  Penh  regime  rapidly  lost  most  of  the  country's  terri- 
tory to  the  communists.  In  January  1975  communist  forces  laid 
siege  to  Phnom  Penh,  and  in  succeeding  months  they  tightened 
the  noose  around  the  capital.  On  April  1,  1975,  President  Lon  Nol 
left  the  country.  Sixteen  days  later  Khmer  Rouge  troops  entered 
the  city. 


5 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  forty-four  months  the  Khmer  Rouge  were  in  power  was  a 
period  of  unmitigated  suffering  for  the  Khmer  people.  Although 
the  severity  of  revolutionary  policies  varied  from  region  to  region 
because  of  ideological  differences  and  the  personal  inclinations  of 
local  leaders,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  starved,  died  from 
disease,  or  were  executed.  "New  people"  (the  intelligentsia  and 
those  from  the  cities — those  new  to  the  rural  areas),  being  consid- 
ered politically  unreliable,  were  special  targets  of  terror  and  of  a 
harsh,  unremitting  regime  of  forced  labor.  In  1977  Pol  Pot  launched 
a  bloody  purge  within  the  communist  ranks  that  accounted  for  many 
deaths.  The  slaughter  of  the  Vietnamese  minority  living  in  Cam- 
bodia and  the  Khmer  Rouge's  aggressive  incursions  into  Vietnam 
led  to  fighting  with  Vietnam  in  1977  and  1978.  In  December  1978, 
Vietnamese  forces  invaded  the  country.  On  January  7,  1979,  they 
captured  Phnom  Penh  and  began  to  establish  the  People's  Republic 
of  Kampuchea  (PRK — see  Appendix  B;  fig.  1).  The  Khmer  Rouge 
fled  to  isolated  corners  of  the  country  and  resumed  their  guerrilla 
struggle,  which  continued  in  the  late  1980s. 

Prehistory  and  Early  Kingdoms 

Archaeological  evidence  indicates  that  parts  of  the  region  now 
called  Cambodia  were  inhabited  during  the  first  and  second  millen- 
nia B.C.  by  peoples  having  a  Neolithic  culture.  By  the  first  cen- 
tury A.D.,  the  inhabitants  had  developed  relatively  stable,  organized 
societies,  which  had  far  surpassed  the  primitive  stage  in  culture 
and  technical  skills.  The  most  advanced  groups  lived  along  the  coast 
and  in  the  lower  Mekong  River  valley  and  delta  regions,  where 
they  cultivated  irrigated  rice  and  kept  domesticated  animals. 

Scholars  believe  that  these  people  may  have  been  Austroasiatic 
in  origin  and  related  to  the  ancestors  of  the  groups  who  now  inhabit 
insular  Southeast  Asia  and  many  of  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  Ocean. 
They  worked  metals,  including  both  iron  and  bronze,  and  possessed 
navigational  skills.  Mon- Khmer  people,  who  arrived  at  a  later  date, 
probably  intermarried  with  them.  The  Khmer  who  now  populate 
Cambodia  may  have  migrated  from  southeastern  China  to  the 
Indochinese  Peninsula  before  the  first  century  A.D.  They  are 
believed  to  have  arrived  before  their  present  Vietnamese,  Thai, 
and  Lao  neighbors  (see  fig.  2). 

Early  Indianized  Kingdom  of  Funan 

At  about  the  time  that  the  ancient  peoples  of  Western  Europe 
were  absorbing  the  classical  culture  and  institutions  of  the  Mediter- 
ranean, the  peoples  of  mainland  and  insular  Southeast  Asia  were 
responding  to  the  stimulus  of  a  civilization  that  had  arisen  in 


6 


Historical  Setting 


northern  India  during  the  previous  millennium.  The  Britons,  Gauls, 
and  Iberians  experienced  Mediterranean  influences  directly, 
through  conquest  by  and  incorporation  into  the  Roman  Empire. 
In  contrast,  the  Indianization  of  Southeast  Asia  was  a  slower  process 
than  the  Romanization  of  Europe  because  there  was  no  period  of 
direct  Indian  rule  and  because  land  and  sea  barriers  that  separated 
the  region  from  the  Indian  subcontinent  are  considerable.  Neverthe- 
less, Indian  religion,  political  thought,  literature,  mythology,  and 
artistic  motifs  gradually  became  integral  elements  in  local  Southeast 
Asian  cultures.  The  caste  system  never  was  adopted,  but  Indiani- 
zation stimulated  the  rise  of  highly-organized,  centralized  states. 

Funan,  the  earliest  of  the  Indianized  states,  generally  is  consid- 
ered by  Cambodians  to  have  been  the  first  Khmer  kingdom  in  the 
area.  Founded  in  the  first  century  A.D.,  Funan  was  located  on 
the  lower  reaches  of  the  Mekong  River  in  the  delta  area.  Its  capi- 
tal, Vyadhapura,  probably  was  located  near  the  present-day  town 
of  Phumi  Banam  in  Prey  Veng  Province.  The  earliest  historical 
reference  to  Funan  is  a  Chinese  description  of  a  mission  that 
visited  the  country  in  the  third  century  A.D.  The  name  Funan 
derives  from  the  Chinese  rendition  of  the  old  Khmer  word  bnam 
(mountain).  What  the  Funanese  called  themselves,  however,  is  not 
known. 

During  this  early  period  in  Funan 's  history,  the  population  was 
probably  concentrated  in  villages  along  the  Mekong  River  and  along 
the  Tonle  Sab  River  below  the  Tonle  Sap.  Traffic  and  communi- 
cations were  mostly  waterborne  on  the  rivers  and  their  delta  tribu- 
taries. The  area  was  a  natural  region  for  the  development  of  an 
economy  based  on  fishing  and  rice  cultivation.  There  is  consider- 
able evidence  that  the  Funanese  economy  depended  on  rice  sur- 
pluses produced  by  an  extensive  inland  irrigation  system.  Maritime 
trade  also  played  an  extremely  important  role  in  the  development 
of  Funan.  The  remains  of  what  is  believed  to  have  been  the  king- 
dom's main  port,  Oc  Eo  (now  part  of  Vietnam),  contain  Roman 
as  well  as  Persian,  Indian,  and  Greek  artifacts. 

By  the  fifth  century  A.D.,  the  state  exercised  control  over  the 
lower  Mekong  River  area  and  the  lands  around  the  Tonle  Sap. 
It  also  commanded  tribute  from  smaller  states  in  the  area  now  com- 
prising northern  Cambodia,  southern  Laos,  southern  Thailand, 
and  the  northern  portion  of  the  Malay  Peninsula. 

Indianization  was  fostered  by  increasing  contact  with  the  sub- 
continent through  the  travels  of  merchants,  diplomats,  and  learned 
Brahmans  (Hindus  of  the  highest  caste  traditionally  assigned  to 
the  priesthood).  Indian  immigrants,  believed  to  have  arrived  in 
the  fourth  and  the  fifth  centuries,  accelerated  the  process.  By  the 


7 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Gulf  of  Thailand 


 Modern  international 

boundary 

0    50  100  Kilometers 
50      100  Miles 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  John  F.  Cady,  Southeast  Asia:  Its  Historical  Development, 
New  York,  1964. 


Figure  2.  Early  States  of  Indochina 


8 


Historical  Setting 


fifth  century,  the  elite  culture  was  thoroughly  Indianized.  Court 
ceremony  and  the  structure  of  political  institutions  were  based  on 
Indian  models.  The  Sanskrit  language  was  widely  used;  the  laws 
of  Manu,  the  Indian  legal  code,  were  adopted;  and  an  alphabet 
based  on  Indian  writing  systems  was  introduced. 

Funan  reached  its  zenith  in  the  fifth  century  A.D.  Beginning 
in  the  early  sixth  century,  civil  wars  and  dynastic  strife  undermined 
Funan' s  stability,  making  it  relatively  easy  prey  to  incursions  by 
hostile  neighbors.  By  the  end  of  the  seventh  century,  a  northern 
neighbor,  the  kingdom  of  Chenla,  had  reduced  Funan  to  a  vassal 
state. 

The  Successor  State  of  Chenla 

The  people  of  Chenla  also  were  Khmer.  Once  they  established 
control  over  Funan,  they  embarked  on  a  course  of  conquest  that 
continued  for  three  centuries.  They  subjugated  central  and  upper 
Laos,  annexed  portions  of  the  Mekong  Delta,  and  brought  what 
are  now  western  Cambodia  and  southern  Thailand  under  their 
direct  control. 

The  royal  families  of  Chenla  intermarried  with  their  Funanese 
counterparts  and  generally  preserved  the  earlier  political,  social, 
and  religious  institutions  of  Funan.  In  the  eighth  century  A.D., 
however,  factional  disputes  at  the  Chenla  court  resulted  in  the  split- 
ting of  the  kingdom  into  rival  northern  and  southern  halves.  Accord- 
ing to  Chinese  chronicles,  the  two  parts  were  known  as  Land  (or 
Upper)  Chenla  and  Water  (or  Lower)  Chenla.  Land  Chenla  main- 
tained a  relatively  stable  existence,  but  Water  Chenla  underwent 
a  period  of  constant  turbulence. 

Late  in  the  eighth  century  A.D.,  Water  Chenla  was  subjected 
to  attacks  by  pirates  from  Java,  Sumatra,  and  the  Malay  Penin- 
sula. By  the  beginning  of  the  ninth  century,  it  had  apparently  be- 
come a  vassal  of  the  Sailendra  dynasty  of  Java.  The  last  of  the  Water 
Chenla  kings  allegedly  was  killed  around  A.D.  790  by  a  Javanese 
monarch  whom  he  had  offended.  The  ultimate  victor  in  the  strife 
that  followed  was  the  ruler  of  a  small  Khmer  state  located  north 
of  the  Mekong  Delta.  His  assumption  of  the  throne  as  Jayavar- 
man  II  (ca.  A.D.  802-50)  marked  the  liberation  of  the  Khmer  peo- 
ple from  Javanese  suzerainty  and  the  beginning  of  a  unified  Khmer 
nation. 

The  Angkorian  Period 

The  Angkorian  period  lasted  from  the  early  ninth  century  to  the 
early  fifteenth  century  A.D.  In  terms  of  cultural  accomplishments 
and  political  power,  this  was  the  golden  age  of  Khmer  civilization. 


9 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  great  temple  cities  of  the  Angkorian  region,  located  near  the 
modern  town  of  Siemreab,  are  a  lasting  monument  to  the  great- 
ness of  Jayavarman  IPs  successors.  (Even  the  Khmer  Rouge,  who 
looked  on  most  of  their  country's  past  history  and  traditions  with 
hostility,  adopted  a  stylized  Angkorian  temple  for  the  flag  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea.  A  similar  motif  is  found  in  the  flag  of 
the  PRK).  The  kingdom  founded  by  Jayavarman  II  also  gave 
modern-day  Cambodia,  or  Kampuchea,  its  name.  During  the  early 
ninth  to  the  mid-fifteenth  centuries,  it  was  known  as  Kambuja, 
originally  the  name  of  an  early  north  Indian  state,  from  which  the 
current  forms  of  the  name  have  been  derived. 

Possibly  to  put  distance  between  himself  and  the  seaborne 
Javanese,  Jayavarman  II  settled  north  of  the  Tonle  Sap.  He  built 
several  capitals  before  establishing  one,  Hariharalaya,  near  the  site 
where  the  Angkorian  complexes  were  built.  Indravarman  I  (A.D. 
877-89)  extended  Khmer  control  as  far  west  as  the  Korat  Plateau 
in  Thailand,  and  he  ordered  the  construction  of  a  huge  reservoir 
north  of  the  capital  to  provide  irrigation  for  wet  rice  cultivation. 
His  son,  Yasovarman  I  (A.D.  889-900),  built  the  Eastern  Baray 
(reservoir  or  tank),  evidence  of  which  remains  to  the  present  time. 
Its  dikes,  which  may  be  seen  today,  are  more  than  6  kilometers 
long  and  1 .6  kilometers  wide.  The  elaborate  system  of  canals  and 
reservoirs  built  under  Indravarman  I  and  his  successors  were  the 
key  to  Kambuja' s  prosperity  for  half  a  millennium.  By  freeing  cul- 
tivators from  dependence  on  unreliable  seasonal  monsoons,  they 
made  possible  an  early  "green  revolution"  that  provided  the  coun- 
try with  large  surpluses  of  rice.  Kambuja' s  decline  during  the  thir- 
teenth and  fourteenth  centuries  probably  was  hastened  by  the 
deterioration  of  the  irrigation  system.  Attacks  by  Thai  and  other 
foreign  peoples  and  the  internal  discord  caused  by  dynastic  rival- 
ries diverted  human  resources  from  the  system's  upkeep,  and  it 
gradually  fell  into  disrepair. 

Suryavarman  II  (1113-50),  one  of  the  greatest  Angkorian 
monarchs,  expanded  his  kingdom's  territory  in  a  series  of  success- 
ful wars  against  the  kingdom  of  Champa  in  central  Vietnam,  the 
kingdom  of  Nam  Viet  in  northern  Vietnam,  and  the  small  Mon 
polities  as  far  west  as  the  Irrawaddy  River  of  Burma.  He  reduced 
to  vassalage  the  Thai  peoples  who  had  migrated  into  Southeast  Asia 
from  the  Yunnan  region  of  southern  China  and  established  his 
suzerainty  over  the  northern  part  of  the  Malay  Peninsula.  His 
greatest  achievement  was  the  construction  of  the  temple  city  com- 
plex of  Angkor  Wat.  The  largest  religious  edifice  in  the  world, 
Angkor  Wat  is  considered  the  greatest  single  architectural  work 
in  Southeast  Asia.  Suryavarman  IPs  reign  was  followed,  however, 


10 


Historical  Setting 


by  thirty  years  of  dynastic  upheaval  and  an  invasion  by  the  neigh- 
boring Cham  (see  Glossary),  who  destroyed  the  city  of  Angkor  in 
1177. 

The  Cham  ultimately  were  driven  out  and  conquered  by  Jayavar- 
man  VII,  whose  reign  (1181-ca.  1218)  marked  the  apogee  of  Kam- 
buja's  power.  Unlike  his  predecessors,  who  had  adopted  the  cult 
of  the  Hindu  god-king,  Jayavarman  VII  was  a  fervent  patron  of 
Mahayana  Buddhism.  Casting  himself  as  a  bodhisattva  (see  Glos- 
sary), he  embarked  on  a  frenzy  of  building  activity  that  included 
the  Angkor  Thorn  complex  and  the  Bayon,  a  remarkable  temple 
whose  stone  towers  depict  216  faces  of  buddhas,  gods,  and  kings. 
He  also  built  over  200  rest  houses  and  hospitals  throughout  his  king- 
dom. Like  the  Roman  emperors,  he  maintained  a  system  of  roads 
between  his  capital  and  provincial  towns.  According  to  historian 
George  Coedes,  "No  other  Cambodian  king  can  claim  to  have 
moved  so  much  stone."  Often,  quality  suffered  for  the  sake  of  size 
and  rapid  construction,  as  is  revealed  in  the  intriguing  but  poorly 
constructed  Bayon. 

Carvings  show  that  everyday  Angkorian  buildings  were  wooden 
structures  not  much  different  from  those  found  in  Cambodia  today. 
The  impressive  stone  buildings  were  not  used  as  residences  by  mem- 
bers of  the  royal  family.  Rather,  they  were  the  focus  of  Hindu  or 
Buddhist  cults  that  celebrated  the  divinity,  or  buddhahood,  of  the 
monarch  and  his  family.  Coedes  suggests  that  they  had  the  dual 
function  of  both  temple  and  tomb.  Typically,  their  dimensions 
reflected  the  structure  of  the  Hindu  mythological  universe.  For 
example,  five  towers  at  the  center  of  the  Angkor  Wat  complex 
represent  the  peaks  of  Mount  Meru,  the  center  of  the  universe; 
an  outer  wall  represents  the  mountains  that  ring  the  world's  edge; 
and  a  moat  depicts  the  cosmic  ocean.  Like  many  other  ancient 
edifices,  the  monuments  of  the  Angkorian  region  absorbed  vast 
reserves  of  resources  and  human  labor  and  their  purpose  remains 
shrouded  in  mystery. 

Angkorian  society  was  strictly  hierarchical.  The  king,  regarded 
as  divine,  owned  both  the  land  and  his  subjects.  Immediately  below 
the  monarch  and  the  royal  family  were  the  Brahman  priesthood 
and  a  small  class  of  officials,  who  numbered  about  4,000  in  the 
tenth  century.  Next  were  the  commoners,  who  were  burdened  with 
heavy  corvee  (forced  labor)  duties.  There  was  also  a  large  slave 
class  that,  like  the  nameless  multitudes  of  ancient  Egypt,  built  the 
enduring  monuments. 

After  Jayavarman  VII' s  death,  Kambuja  entered  a  long  period 
of  decline  that  led  to  its  eventual  disintegration.  The  Thai  were 
a  growing  menace  on  the  empire's  western  borders.  The  spread 


11 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Theravada  Buddhism,  which  came  to  Kambuja  from  Sri  Lanka 
by  way  of  the  Mon  kingdoms,  challenged  the  royal  Hindu  and 
Mahayana  Buddhist  cults.  Preaching  austerity  and  the  salvation 
of  the  individual  through  his  or  her  own  efforts,  Theravada  Bud- 
dhism did  not  lend  doctrinal  support  to  a  society  ruled  by  an  opu- 
lent royal  establishment  maintained  through  the  virtual  slavery  of 
the  masses. 

In  1353  a  Thai  army  captured  Angkor.  It  was  recaptured  by 
the  Khmer,  but  wars  continued  and  the  capital  was  looted  several 
times.  During  the  same  period,  Khmer  territory  north  of  the  present 
Laotian  border  was  lost  to  the  Lao  kingdom  of  Lan  Xang.  In  1431 
the  Thai  captured  Angkor  Thorn.  Thereafter,  the  Angkorian  region 
did  not  again  encompass  a  royal  capital,  except  for  a  brief  period 
in  the  third  quarter  of  the  sixteenth  century. 

Cambodia's  Struggle  for  Survival,  1432-1887 

The  more  than  four  centuries  that  passed  from  the  abandonment 
of  Angkor  around  the  mid-fifteenth  century  to  the  establishment 
of  a  protectorate  under  the  French  in  1863  are  considered  by  histori- 
ans to  be  Cambodia's  "dark  ages,"  a  period  of  economic,  social, 
and  cultural  stagnation  when  the  kingdom's  internal  affairs  came 
increasingly  under  the  control  of  its  aggressive  neighbors,  the  Thai 
and  the  Vietnamese.  By  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  Cambodia 
had  become  an  almost  helpless  pawn  in  the  power  struggles  be- 
tween Thailand  and  Vietnam  and  probably  would  have  been  com- 
pletely absorbed  by  one  or  the  other  if  France  had  not  intervened, 
giving  Cambodia  a  colonially  dominated  "lease  on  life."  Fear  of 
racial  and  cultural  extinction  has  persisted  as  a  major  theme  in 
modern  Cambodian  thought  and  helps  to  explain  the  intense  na- 
tionalism and  xenophobia  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  during  the  1970s. 
Establishment  in  1979  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea, 
a  Vietnamese-dominated  satellite  state,  can  be  seen  as  the  culmi- 
nation of  a  process  of  Vietnamese  encroachment  that  was  already 
well  under  way  by  the  seventeenth  century. 

The  process  of  internal  decay  and  foreign  encroachment  was 
gradual  rather  than  precipitous  and  was  hardly  evident  in  the 
fifteenth  century  when  the  Khmer  were  still  powerful.  Following 
the  fall  of  Angkor  Thorn,  the  Cambodian  court  abandoned  the 
region  north  of  the  Tonle  Sap,  never  to  return  except  for  a  brief 
interlude  in  the  late  sixteenth  century.  By  this  time  however,  the 
Khmer  penchant  for  monument  building  had  ceased.  Older  faiths 
such  as  Mahayana  Buddhism  and  the  Hindu  cult  of  the  god-king 
had  been  supplanted  by  Theravada  Buddhism,  and  the  Cambo- 
dians had  become  part  of  the  same  religious  and  cultural  cosmos 


12 


Historical  Setting 


as  the  Thai.  This  similarity  did  not  prevent  intermittent  warfare 
between  the  two  kingdoms,  however.  During  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury Cambodian  armies,  taking  advantage  of  Thai  troubles  with 
the  Burmese,  invaded  the  Thai  kingdom  several  times. 

In  the  meantime,  following  the  abandonment  of  the  Angkorian 
sites,  the  Khmer  established  a  new  capital  several  hundred  kilo- 
meters to  the  southeast  on  the  site  of  what  is  now  Phnom  Penh. 
This  new  center  of  power  was  located  at  the  confluence  of  the 
Mekong  and  the  Tonle  Sab  rivers.  Thus,  it  controlled  the  river 
commerce  of  the  Khmer  heartland  and  the  Laotian  kingdoms  and 
had  access,  by  way  of  the  Mekong  Delta,  to  the  international  trade 
routes  that  linked  the  China  coast,  the  South  China  Sea,  and  the 
Indian  Ocean.  A  new  kind  of  state  and  society  emerged,  more  open 
to  the  outside  world  and  more  dependent  on  commerce  as  a  source 
of  wealth  than  its  inland  predecessor.  The  growth  of  maritime  trade 
with  China  during  the  Ming  dynasty  (1368-1644)  provided  lucra- 
tive opportunities  for  members  of  the  Cambodian  elite  who  con- 
trolled royal  trading  monopolies.  The  appearance  of  Europeans 
in  the  region  in  the  sixteenth  century  also  stimulated  commerce. 

King  Ang  Chan  (1516-66),  one  of  the  few  great  Khmer  monarchs 
of  the  post- Angkorian  period,  moved  the  capital  from  Phnom  Penh 
to  Lovek.  Portuguese  and  Spanish  travelers  who  visited  the  city, 
located  on  the  banks  of  the  Tonle  Sab,  a  river  north  of  Phnom  Penh, 
described  it  as  a  place  of  fabulous  wealth.  The  products  traded  there 
included  precious  stones,  metals,  silk  and  cotton,  incense,  ivory, 
lacquer,  livestock  (including  elephants),  and  rhinoceros  horn  (prized 
by  the  Chinese  as  a  rare  and  potent  medicine).  By  the  late  sixteenth 
and  early  seventeenth  centuries,  Lovek  contained  flourishing  for- 
eign trading  communities  of  Chinese,  Indonesians,  Malays, 
Japanese,  Arabs,  Spanish,  and  Portuguese.  They  were  joined  later 
in  the  century  by  the  English  and  the  Dutch. 

Because  the  representatives  of  practically  all  these  nationalities 
were  pirates,  adventurers,  or  traders,  this  was  an  era  of  stormy 
cosmopolitanism.  Hard-pressed  by  the  Thai,  King  Sattha  (1576-94) 
surrounded  himself  with  a  personal  guard  of  Spanish  and  Por- 
tuguese mercenaries,  and  in  1593  asked  the  Spanish  governor  of 
the  Philippines  for  aid.  Attracted  by  the  prospects  of  establishing 
a  Spanish  protectorate  in  Cambodia  and  of  converting  the  monarch 
to  Christianity,  the  governor  sent  a  force  of  120  men,  but  Lovek 
had  already  fallen  to  the  Thai  when  they  arrived  the  following  year. 
The  Spanish  took  advantage  of  the  extremely  confused  situation 
to  place  one  of  Sattha' s  sons  on  the  throne  in  1597.  Hopes  of  mak- 
ing the  country  a  Spanish  dependency  were  dashed,  however,  when 


13 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Spaniards  were  massacred  two  years  later  by  an  equally 
belligerent  contingent  of  Malay  mercenaries. 

The  Thai,  however,  had  dealt  a  fatal  blow  to  Cambodian  in- 
dependence by  capturing  Lovek  in  1594.  With  the  posting  of  a  Thai 
military  governor  in  the  city,  a  degree  of  foreign  political  control 
was  established  over  the  kingdom  for  the  first  time.  Cambodian 
chronicles  describe  the  fall  of  Lovek  as  a  catastrophe  from  which 
the  nation  never  fully  recovered. 

Domination  by  Thailand  and  by  Vietnam 

More  than  their  conquest  of  Angkor  a  century  and  a  half  earlier, 
the  Thai  capture  of  Lovek  marked  the  beginning  of  a  decline  in 
Cambodia's  fortunes.  One  possible  reason  for  the  decline  was  the 
labor  drain  imposed  by  the  Thai  conquerors  as  they  marched  thou- 
sands of  Khmer  peasants,  skilled  artisans,  scholars,  and  members 
of  the  Buddhist  clergy  back  to  their  capital  of  Ayutthaya.  This  prac- 
tice, common  in  the  history  of  Southeast  Asia,  crippled  Cambo- 
dia's ability  to  recover  a  semblance  of  its  former  greatness.  A  new 
Khmer  capital  was  established  at  Odongk  (Udong),  south  of  Lovek, 
but  its  monarchs  could  survive  only  by  entering  into  what  amounted 
to  vassal  relationships  with  the  Thai  and  with  the  Vietnamese.  In 
common  parlance,  Thailand  became  Cambodia's  "father"  and 
Vietnam  its  "mother." 

By  the  late  fifteenth  century,  the  Vietnamese — who,  unlike  other 
Southeast  Asian  peoples,  had  patterned  their  culture  and  their  civili- 
zation on  those  of  China — had  defeated  the  once-powerful  king- 
dom of  Champa  in  central  Vietnam.  Thousands  of  Chams  fled  into 
Khmer  territory.  By  the  early  seventeenth  century,  the  Vietnamese 
had  reached  the  Mekong  Delta,  which  was  inhabited  by  Khmer 
people.  In  1620  the  Khmer  king  Chey  Chettha  II  (1618-28)  mar- 
ried a  daughter  of  Sai  Vuong,  one  of  the  Nguyen  lords  (1558-1778), 
who  ruled  southern  Vietnam  for  most  of  the  period  of  the  restored 
Le  dynasty  (1428-1788).  Three  years  later,  Chey  Chettha  allowed 
the  Vietnamese  to  establish  a  custom-house  at  Prey  Nokor,  near 
what  is  now  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  (until  1975,  Saigon).  By  the  end 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  the  region  was  under  Vietnamese 
administrative  control,  and  Cambodia  was  cut  off  from  access  to 
the  sea.  Trade  with  the  outside  world  was  possible  only  with  Viet- 
namese permission. 

There  were  periods  in  the  seventeenth  and  the  eighteenth  cen- 
turies, when  Cambodia's  neighbors  were  preoccupied  with  inter- 
nal or  external  strife,  that  afforded  the  beleaguered  country  a 
breathing  spell.  The  Vietnamese  were  involved  in  a  lengthy  civil 
war  until  1674,  but  upon  its  conclusion  they  promptly  annexed 


14 


Historical  Setting 


sizable  areas  of  contiguous  Cambodian  territory  in  the  region  of 
the  Mekong  Delta.  For  the  next  one  hundred  years  they  used  the 
alleged  mistreatment  of  Vietnamese  colonists  in  the  delta  as  a  pretext 
for  their  continued  expansion.  By  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, they  had  extended  their  control  to  include  the  area  encom- 
passed in  the  late  1980s  by  the  Socialist  Republic  of  Vietnam 
(Vietnam). 

Thailand,  which  might  otherwise  have  been  courted  as  an  ally 
against  Vietnamese  incursions  in  the  eighteenth  century,  was  it- 
self involved  in  a  new  conflict  with  Burma.  In  1767  the  Thai  capi- 
tal of  Ayutthaya  was  besieged  and  destroyed.  The  Thai  quickly 
recovered,  however,  and  soon  reasserted  their  dominion  over  Cam- 
bodia. The  youthful  Khmer  king,  Ang  Eng  (1779-96),  a  refugee 
at  the  Thai  court,  was  installed  as  monarch  at  Odongk  by  Thai 
troops.  At  the  same  time,  Thailand  quietly  annexed  Cambodia's 
three  northernmost  provinces.  In  addition,  the  local  rulers  of  the 
northwestern  provinces  of  Batdambang  and  Siemreab  (Siemreap) 
became  vassals  of  the  Thai  king,  and  these  areas  came  under  the 
Thai  sphere  of  influence. 

A  renewed  struggle  between  Thailand  and  Vietnam  for  control 
of  Cambodia  in  the  nineteenth  century  resulted  in  a  period  when 
Vietnamese  officials,  working  through  a  puppet  Cambodian  king, 
ruled  the  central  part  of  the  country  and  attempted  to  force  Cam- 
bodians to  adopt  Vietnamese  customs.  Several  rebellions  against 
Vietnamese  rule  ensued.  The  most  important  of  these  occurred  in 
1840  to  1841  and  spread  through  much  of  the  country.  After  two 
years  of  fighting,  Cambodia  and  its  two  neighbors  reached  an  ac- 
cord that  placed  the  country  under  the  joint  suzerainty  of  Thailand 
and  Vietnam.  At  the  behest  of  both  countries,  a  new  monarch, 
Ang  Duong  (1848-59),  ascended  the  throne  and  brought  a  decade 
of  peace  and  relative  independence  to  Cambodia. 

In  their  arbitrary  treatment  of  the  Khmer  population,  the  Thai 
and  the  Vietnamese  were  virtually  indistinguishable.  The  suffer- 
ing and  the  dislocation  caused  by  war  were  comparable  in  many 
ways  to  similar  Cambodian  experiences  in  the  1970s.  But  the  Thai 
and  the  Vietnamese  had  fundamentally  different  attitudes  concern- 
ing their  relationships  with  Cambodia.  The  Thai  shared  with  the 
Khmer  a  common  religion,  mythology,  literature,  and  culture.  The 
Chakri  kings  at  Bangkok  wanted  Cambodia's  loyalty  and  tribute, 
but  they  had  no  intention  of  challenging  or  changing  its  people's 
values  or  way  of  life.  The  Vietnamese  viewed  the  Khmer  people 
as  barbarians  to  be  civilized  through  exposure  to  Vietnamese 
culture,  and  they  regarded  the  fertile  Khmer  lands  as  legitimate 
sites  for  colonization  by  settlers  from  Vietnam. 


15 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  French  Protectorate 

France's  interest  in  Indochina  in  the  nineteenth  century  grew 
out  of  its  rivalry  with  Britain,  which  had  excluded  it  from  India 
and  had  effectively  shut  it  out  of  other  pans  of  mainland  South- 
east Asia.  The  French  also  desired  to  establish  commerce  in  a  region 
that  promised  so  much  untapped  wealth  and  to  redress  the  Viet- 
namese state's  persecution  of  Catholic  converts,  whose  welfare  was 
a  stated  aim  of  French  overseas  policy.  The  Nguyen  dynasty's 
repeated  refusal  to  establish  diplomatic  relations  and  the  violently 
anti-Christian  policies  of  the  emperors  Minh  Mang  (1820-41), 
Thieu  Tri  (1841-47).  and  Tu  Due  (1848-83)  impelled  the  French 
to  engage  in  gunboat  diplomacy  that  resulted,  in  1862,  in  the  es- 
tablishment of  French  dominion  over  Saigon  and  over  the  three 
eastern  provinces  of  the  Cochinchina  (Mekong  Delta)  region. 

In  the  view  of  the  government  in  Paris,  Cambodia  was  a  promis- 
ing backwater.  Persuaded  by  a  missionary  envoy  to  seek  French 
protection  against  both  the  Thai  and  the  Vietnamese,  King  Ang 
Duong  invited  a  French  diplomatic  mission  to  visit  his  court.  The 
Thai,  however,  pressured  him  to  refuse  to  meet  with  the  French 
when  they  finally  arrived  at  Odongk  in  1856.  The  much-publicized 
travels  of  the  naturalist  Henri  Mouhot,  who  visited  the  Cambo- 
dian court,  rediscovered  the  ruins  at  Angkor,  and  journeyed  up 
the  Mekong  River  to  the  Laotian  kingdom  of  Luang  Prabang  from 
1859  to  1861,  piqued  French  interest  in  the  kingdom's  alleged  vast 
riches  and  in  the  value  of  the  Mekong  as  a  gateway  to  China's  south- 
western provinces.  In  August  1863,  the  French  concluded  a  treaty 
with  Ang  Duong's  successor,  Norodom  (1859-1904).  This  agree- 
ment afforded  the  Cambodian  monarch  French  protection  (in  the 
form  of  a  French  official  called  a  resident — in  French  resident)  in 
exchange  for  giving  the  French  rights  to  explore  and  to  exploit  the 
kingdom's  mineral  and  forest  resources.  Norodom's  coronation, 
in  1864.  was  an  awkward  affair  at  which  both  French  and  Thai 
representatives  officiated.  Although  the  Thai  attempted  to  thwart 
the  expansion  of  French  influence,  their  own  influence  over  the 
monarch  steadily  dwindled.  In  1867  the  French  concluded  a  treaty 
with  the  Thai  that  gave  the  latter  control  of  Batdambang  Province 
and  of  Siemreab  Province  in  exchange  for  their  renunciation  of 
all  claims  of  suzerainty  over  other  parts  of  Cambodia.  Loss  of  the 
northwestern  provinces  deeply  upset  Norodom,  but  he  was  beholden 
to  the  French  for  sending  military  aid  to  suppress  a  rebellion  by 
a  royal  pretender. 

In  June  1884,  the  French  governor  of  Cochinchina  went  to 
Phnom  Penh,  Norodom's  capital,  and  demanded  approval  of  a 


16 


Gate  of  the  Dead, 
Angkor  Thorn,  twelfth  century 
Courtesy  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Robert  E.  Hammerquist 


Villager  resting  near 
pre-Angkorian  ruins 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


17 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

treaty  with  Paris  that  promised  far-reaching  changes  such  as  the 
abolition  of  slavery,  the  institution  of  private  land  ownership,  and 
the  establishment  of  French  residents  in  provincial  cities.  Mind- 
ful of  a  French  gunboat  anchored  in  the  river,  the  king  reluctantly 
signed  the  agreement.  Local  elites  opposed  its  provisions,  how- 
ever, especially  the  one  dealing  with  slavery,  and  they  fomented 
rebellions  throughout  the  country  during  the  following  year. 
Though  the  rebellions  were  suppressed,  and  the  treaty  was  rati- 
fied, passive  resistance  on  the  part  of  the  Cambodians  postponed 
implementation  of  the  reforms  it  embodied  until  after  Norodom's 
death. 

The  French  Colonial  Period,  1887-1953 

In  October  1887,  the  French  proclaimed  the  Union  Indochinoise, 
or  Indochina  Union,  comprising  Cambodia  and  the  three  constit- 
uent regions  of  Vietnam:  Tonkin,  Annam,  and  Cochinchina.  (Laos 
was  added  to  the  Indochina  Union  after  being  separated  from  Thai 
suzerainty  in  1893.)  Cambodia's  chief  colonial  official,  responsi- 
ble to  the  Union's  governor  general  and  appointed  by  the  Minis- 
try of  Marine  and  Colonies  in  Paris,  was  a  resident  general  {resident 
superieur).  Residents,  or  local  governors,  were  posted  in  all  the  prin- 
cipal provincial  centers.  In  1897  the  incumbent  resident  general 
complained  to  Paris  that  Norodom  was  no  longer  capable  of  rul- 
ing and  received  permission  to  assume  the  king's  authority  to  issue 
decrees,  collect  taxes,  and  appoint  royal  officials.  Norodom  and 
his  successors  were  left  with  hollow,  figurehead  roles  as  head  of 
state  and  as  patron  of  the  Buddhist  religion.  The  colonial  bureau- 
cracy expanded  rapidly.  French  nationals  naturally  held  the  highest 
positions,  but  even  on  the  lower  rungs  of  the  bureaucracy  Cam- 
bodians found  few  opportunities  because  the  colonial  government 
preferred  to  hire  Vietnamese. 

When  Norodom  died  in  1904,  the  French  passed  over  his  sons 
and  set  his  brother  Sisowath  (1904-27)  on  the  throne.  Sisowath's 
branch  of  the  royal  family  was  considered  more  cooperative  than 
that  of  Norodom  because  the  latter  was  viewed  as  partly  responsi- 
ble for  the  revolts  of  the  1880s  and  because  Norodom's  favorite 
son,  Prince  Yukanthor,  had  stirred  up  publicity  abroad  about 
French  colonial  injustices.  During  their  generally  peaceful  reigns, 
Sisowath  and  his  son  Monivong  (1927-41)  were  pliant  instruments 
of  French  rule.  A  measure  of  the  monarchs'  status  was  the  will- 
ingness of  the  French  to  provide  them  annually  with  complimen- 
tary rations  of  opium.  One  of  the  few  highlights  of  Sisowath's  reign 
was  French  success  in  getting  Thailand's  King  Chulalongkorn  to 


18 


Historical  Setting 


sign  a  new  treaty  in  1907  returning  the  northwestern  provinces  of 
Batdambang  and  Siemreab  to  Cambodia. 

The  Colonial  Economy 

Soon  after  establishing  their  protectorate  in  1863,  the  French 
realized  that  Cambodia's  hidden  wealth  was  an  illusion  and  that 
Phnom  Penh  would  never  become  the  Singapore  of  Indochina. 
Aside  from  collecting  taxes  more  efficiently,  the  French  did  little 
to  transform  Cambodia's  village-based  economy.  Cambodians  paid 
the  highest  taxes  per  capita  in  Indochina,  and  in  1916  a  nonvio- 
lent tax  revolt  brought  tens  of  thousands  of  peasants  into  Phnom 
Penh  to  petition  the  king  for  a  reduction.  The  incident  shocked 
the  French,  who  had  lulled  themselves  into  believing  that  the  Cam- 
bodians were  too  indolent  and  individualistic  to  organize  a  mass 
protest.  Taxes  continued  to  be  sorely  resented  by  the  Cambodians. 
In  1925  villagers  killed  a  French  resident  after  he  threatened  to 
arrest  tax  delinquents  (see  The  French  Protectorate,  1863-1954, 
ch.  5).  For  poor  peasants,  the  corvee  service — a  tax  substitute — of 
as  many  as  ninety  days  a  year  on  public  works  projects,  was  an 
onerous  duty. 

According  to  Hou  Yuon  (a  veteran  of  the  communist  movement 
who  was  murdered  by  the  Khmer  Rouge  after  they  seized  power 
in  1975),  usury  vied  with  taxes  as  the  chief  burden  upon  the  peasant- 
ry. Hou's  1955  doctoral  thesis  at  the  University  of  Paris  was  one 
of  the  earliest  and  most  thorough  studies  of  conditions  in  the  rural 
areas  during  the  French  colonial  era.  He  argued  that  although  most 
landholdings  were  small  (one  to  five  hectares),  poor  and  middle- 
class  peasants  were  victims  of  flagrantly  usurious  practices  that  in- 
cluded effective  interest  rates  of  100  to  200  percent.  Foreclosure 
reduced  them  to  the  status  of  sharecroppers  or  landless  laborers. 
Although  debt  slavery  and  feudal  landholding  patterns  had  been 
abolished  by  the  French,  the  old  elites  still  controlled  the  country- 
side. According  to  Hou,  "the  great  feudal  farms,  because  of  their 
precapitalist  character,  are  disguised  as  small  and  medium-sized 
farms,  in  the  form  of  tenancies  and  share-farms,  and  materially 
are  indistinguishable  from  other  small  and  medium-seized  farms." 
Whether  or  not  the  countryside  was  as  polarized  in  terms  of  class 
(or  property)  as  Hou  argues  is  open  to  debate,  but  it  is  clear  that 
great  tension  and  conflict  existed  despite  the  smiles  and  the  easy- 
going manner  of  Khmer  villagers. 

To  develop  the  economic  infrastructure,  the  French  built  a  limited 
number  of  roads  and  a  railroad  that  extended  from  Phnom  Penh 
through  Batdambang  to  the  Thai  border.  The  cultivation  of  rub- 
ber and  of  corn  were  economically  important,  and  the  fertile 


19 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

provinces  of  Batdambang  and  Siemreab  became  the  rice  baskets 
of  Indochina.  The  prosperous  1920s,  when  rubber,  rice,  and  corn 
were  in  demand  overseas,  were  years  of  considerable  economic 
growth,  but  the  world  depression  after  1929  caused  great  suffer- 
ing, especially  among  rice  cultivators  whose  falling  incomes  made 
them  more  than  ever  the  victims  of  moneylenders. 

Industry  was  rudimentary  and  was  designed  primarily  to  process 
raw  materials  such  as  rubber  for  local  use  or  export.  There  was 
considerable  immigration,  which  created  a  plural  society  similar 
to  those  of  other  Southeast  Asian  countries.  As  in  British  Burma 
and  Malaya,  foreigners  dominated  the  developed  sectors  of  the  econ- 
omy. Vietnamese  came  to  serve  as  laborers  on  rubber  plantations 
and  as  clerical  workers  in  the  government.  As  their  numbers  in- 
creased, Vietnamese  immigrants  also  began  to  play  important  roles 
in  the  economy  as  fishermen  and  as  operators  of  small  businesses. 
The  Chinese  had  been  in  Cambodia  for  several  centuries  before 
the  imposition  of  French  rule,  and  they  had  dominated  precolo- 
nial  commerce.  This  arrangement  continued  under  the  French, 
because  the  colonial  government  placed  no  restrictions  on  the  oc- 
cupations in  which  they  could  engage.  Chinese  merchants  and 
bankers  in  Cambodia  developed  commercial  networks  that  extended 
throughout  Indochina  as  well  as  overseas  to  other  parts  of  Southeast 
Asia  and  to  mainland  China. 

The  Emergence  of  Nationalism 

In  stark  contrast  to  neighboring  Cochinchina  and  to  the  other 
Vietnamese-populated  territories  of  Indochina,  Cambodia  was  rela- 
tively quiescent  politically  during  the  first  four  decades  of  the  twen- 
tieth century.  The  carefully  maintained  fiction  of  royal  rule  was 
probably  the  major  factor.  Khmer  villagers,  long  inured  to  abuses 
of  power,  believed  that  as  long  as  a  monarch  occupied  the  throne 
"all  was  right  with  the  world. ' '  Low  literacy  rates,  which  the  French 
were  extremely  reluctant  to  improve,  also  insulated  the  great  major- 
ity of  the  population  from  the  nationalist  currents  that  were  sweep- 
ing other  parts  of  Southeast  Asia. 

Nevertheless,  national  consciousness  was  emerging  among  the 
handful  of  educated  Khmer  who  composed  the  urban-based  elite. 
Restoration  of  the  monuments  at  Angkor,  which  the  historian 
David  P.  Chandler  suggests  was  France's  most  valuable  legacy  to 
the  colony,  awakened  Cambodians'  pride  in  their  culture  and  in 
their  past  achievements.  Many  of  the  new  elite  were  graduates  of 
the  Lycee  Sisowath  in  Phnom  Penh,  where  resentment  of  the 
favored  treatment  given  Vietnamese  students  resulted  in  a  peti- 
tion to  King  Monivong  during  the  1930s.  Significantly,  the  most 


20 


Historical  Setting 


articulate  of  the  early  nationalists,  were  Khmer  Krom  (see  Appen- 
dix B) — members  of  the  Cambodian  minority  who  lived  in  Cochin- 
china.  In  1936  Son  Ngoc  Thanh  and  another  Khmer  Krom  named 
Pach  Chhoeun,  began  publishing  Nagaravatta  (Angkor  Wat),  the 
first  Khmer-language  newspaper.  In  its  editorials,  Nagaravatta  mildly 
condemned  French  colonial  policies,  the  prevalence  of  usury  in  the 
rural  areas,  foreign  domination  of  the  economy,  and  the  lack  of 
opportunities  for  educated  Khmer.  Much  of  the  paper's  journalistic 
wrath  was  directed  toward  the  Vietnamese  for  their  past  exploita- 
tion of  Cambodia  and  for  their  contemporary  monopolization  of 
civil  service  and  of  professional  positions. 

The  Khmer  were  fortunate  in  escaping  the  suffering  endured 
by  most  other  Southeast  Asian  peoples  during  World  War  II.  After 
the  establishment  of  the  Vichy  regime  in  France  in  1940,  Japanese 
forces  moved  into  Vietnam  and  displaced  French  authority.  In 
mid- 1941 ,  they  entered  Cambodia  but  allowed  Vichy  French  colo- 
nial officials  to  remain  at  their  administrative  posts.  The  pro- 
Japanese  regime  in  Thailand,  headed  by  Prime  Minister  Field 
Marshal  Luang  Plaek  Phibunsonggram,  requested  assurances  from 
the  Vichy  regime  that,  in  the  event  of  an  interruption  of  French 
sovereignty,  Cambodian  and  Laotian  territories  formerly  belong- 
ing to  Thailand  would  be  returned  to  Bangkok's  authority.  The 
request  was  rejected.  In  January  1941 ,  a  Thai  force  invaded  Cam- 
bodia. The  land  fighting  was  indecisive,  but  the  Vichy  French 
defeated  the  Thai  navy  in  an  engagement  in  the  Gulf  of  Thailand 
(see  The  Japanese  Occupation,  1941-45,  ch.  5).  At  this  point, 
Tokyo  intervened  and  compelled  the  French  authorities  to  agree 
to  a  treaty  ceding  the  province  of  Batdambang  and  part  of  the 
province  of  Siemreab  to  Thailand  in  exchange  for  a  small  com- 
pensation. The  Cambodians  were  allowed  to  retain  Angkor.  Thai 
aggression,  however,  had  minimal  impact  on  the  lives  of  most  Cam- 
bodians outside  the  northwestern  region. 

King  Monivong  died  in  April  1941.  Although  his  son,  Prince 
Monireth,  had  been  considered  the  heir  apparent,  the  French  chose 
instead  Norodom  Sihanouk,  the  great  grandson  of  King  Norodom. 
Sihanouk  was  an  ideal  candidate  from  their  point  of  view  because 
of  his  youth  (he  was  nineteen  years  old),  his  lack  of  experience, 
and  his  pliability. 

Japanese  calls  of  "Asia  for  the  Asiatics"  found  a  receptive 
audience  among  Cambodian  nationalists,  although  Tokyo's 
policy  in  Indochina  was  to  leave  the  colonial  government  nomi- 
nally in  charge.  When  a  prominent,  politically  active  Buddhist 
monk,  Hem  Chieu,  was  arrested  and  unceremoniously  defrocked 
by  the  French  authorities  in  July  1942,  the  editors  of  Nagaravatta 


21 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

led  a  demonstration  demanding  his  release.  They  as  well  as  other 
nationalists  apparently  overestimated  the  Japanese  willingness  to 
back  them,  for  the  Vichy  authorities  quickly  arrested  the  demon- 
strators and  gave  Pach  Chhoeun,  one  of  the  Nagaravatta  editors, 
a  life  sentence  (see  The  Japanese  Occupation,  1941-45,  ch.  5).  The 
other  editor,  Son  Ngoc  Thanh,  escaped  from  Phnom  Penh  and 
turned  up  the  following  year  in  Tokyo. 

In  a  desperate  effort  to  enlist  local  support  in  the  final  months 
of  the  war,  the  Japanese  dissolved  the  French  colonial  administra- 
tion on  March  9,  1945,  and  urged  Cambodia  to  declare  its  indepen- 
dence within  the  Greater  East  Asia  Co-Prosperity  Sphere.  Four 
days  later,  King  Sihanouk  decreed  an  independent  Kampuchea 
(the  original  Khmer  pronunciation  of  Cambodia).  Son  Ngoc  Thanh 
returned  from  Tokyo  in  May,  and  he  was  appointed  foreign 
minister.  On  August  15,  1945,  the  day  Japan  surrendered,  a  new 
government  was  established  with  Son  Ngoc  Thanh  acting  as  prime 
minister.  When  an  Allied  force  occupied  Phnom  Penh  in  October, 
Thanh  was  arrested  for  collaboration  with  the  Japanese  and  was 
sent  into  exile  in  France  to  remain  under  house  arrest.  Some  of 
his  supporters  went  to  northwestern  Cambodia,  then  still  under 
Thai  control,  where  they  banded  together  as  one  faction  in  the 
Khmer  Issarak  (see  Appendix  B)  movement,  originally  formed  with 
Thai  encouragement  in  the  1940s. 

The  Struggle  for  Independence 

Cambodia's  situation  at  the  end  of  the  war  was  chaotic.  The  Free 
French,  under  General  Charles  de  Gaulle,  were  determined  to 
recover  Indochina,  though  they  offered  Cambodia  and  the  other 
Indochinese  protectorates  a  carefully  circumscribed  measure  of  self- 
government.  Convinced  that  they  had  a  "civilizing  mission,"  they 
envisioned  Indochina' s  participation  in  a  French  Union  of  former 
colonies  that  shared  the  common  experience  of  French  culture. 
Neither  the  urban  professional  elites  nor  the  common  people, 
however,  were  attracted  by  this  arrangement.  For  Cambodians  of 
practically  all  walks  of  life,  the  brief  period  of  independence,  from 
March  to  October  of  1945,  was  an  invigorating  breath  of  fresh  air. 
The  lassitude  of  the  Khmer  was  a  thing  of  the  past. 

In  Phnom  Penh,  Sihanouk,  acting  as  head  of  state,  was  placed 
in  the  extremely  delicate  position  of  negotiating  with  the  French 
for  full  independence  while  trying  to  neutralize  party  politicians 
and  supporters  of  the  Khmer  Issarak  and  Viet  Minh  who  consid- 
ered him  a  French  collaborator.  During  the  tumultuous  period  be- 
tween 1946  and  1953,  Sihanouk  displayed  the  remarkable  aptitude 
for  political  survival  that  sustained  him  before  and  after  his  fall 


22 


Angkor  Wat  from  the  causeway 
Courtesy  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Hammerquist 

from  power  in  March  1970.  The  Khmer  Issarak  was  an  extremely 
heterogeneous  guerrilla  movement,  operating  in  the  border  areas. 
The  group  included  indigenous  leftists,  Vietnamese  leftists,  anti- 
monarchical  nationalists  (Khmer  Serei — see  Appendix  B)  loyal  to 
Son  Ngoc  Thanh,  and  plain  bandits  taking  advantage  of  the  chaos 
to  terrorize  villagers.  Though  their  fortunes  rose  and  fell  during 
the  immediate  postwar  period  (a  major  blow  was  the  overthrow 
of  a  friendly  leftist  government  in  Bangkok  in  1947),  by  1954  the 
Khmer  Issarak  operating  with  the  Viet  Minh  by  some  estimates 
controlled  as  much  as  50  percent  of  Cambodia's  territory. 

In  1946  the  French  allowed  the  Cambodians  to  form  political 
parties  and  to  hold  elections  for  a  Consultative  Assembly  that  would 
advise  the  monarch  on  drafting  the  country's  constitution.  The  two 
major  parties  were  both  headed  by  royal  princes.  The  Democratic 
Party,  led  by  Prince  Sisowath  Yuthevong,  espoused  immediate  in- 
dependence, democratic  reforms,  and  parliamentary  government. 
Its  supporters  were  teachers,  civil  servants,  politically  active  mem- 
bers of  the  Buddhist  priesthood,  and  others  whose  opinions  had 
been  greatly  influenced  by  the  nationalistic  appeals  of  Nagaravatta 
before  it  was  closed  down  by  the  French  in  1942.  Many  Democrats 
sympathized  with  the  violent  methods  of  the  Khmer  Issarak.  The 
Liberal  Party,  led  by  Prince  Norodom  Norindeth,  represented  the 
interests  of  the  old  rural  elites,  including  large  landowners.  They 


23 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

preferred  continuing  some  form  of  the  colonial  relationship  with 
France,  and  advocated  gradual  democratic  reform.  In  the  Con- 
sultative Assembly  election  held  in  September  1946,  the  Democrats 
won  fifty  out  of  sixty-seven  seats. 

With  a  solid  majority  in  the  assembly,  the  Democrats  drafted 
a  constitution  modeled  on  that  of  the  French  Fourth  Republic. 
Power  was  concentrated  in  the  hands  of  a  popularly  elected  Na- 
tional Assembly.  The  king  reluctantly  proclaimed  the  new  consti- 
tution on  May  6,  1947.  While  it  recognized  him  as  the  ''spiritual 
head  of  the  state,"  it  reduced  him  to  the  status  of  a  constitutional 
monarch,  and  it  left  unclear  the  extent  to  which  he  could  play  an 
active  role  in  the  politics  of  the  nation.  Sihanouk  would  turn  this 
ambiguity  to  his  advantage  in  later  years,  however. 

In  the  December  1947  elections  for  the  National  Assembly,  the 
Democrats  again  won  a  large  majority.  Despite  this,  dissension 
within  the  party  was  rampant.  Its  founder,  Prince  Yuthevong,  had 
died  and  no  clear  leader  had  emerged  to  succeed  him.  During  the 
period  1948  to  1949,  the  Democrats  appeared  united  only  in  their 
opposition  to  legislation  sponsored  by  the  king  or  his  appointees. 
A  major  issue  was  the  king's  receptivity  to  independence  within 
the  French  Union,  proposed  in  a  draft  treaty  offered  by  the  French 
in  late  1948.  Following  dissolution  of  the  National  Assembly  in  Sep- 
tember 1949,  agreement  on  the  pact  was  reached  through  an 
exchange  of  letters  between  King  Sihanouk  and  the  French  govern- 
ment. It  went  into  effect  two  months  later,  though  National  Assem- 
bly ratification  of  the  treaty  was  never  secured. 

The  treaty  granted  Cambodia  what  Sihanouk  called  "fifty  per- 
cent independence":  by  it,  the  colonial  relationship  was  formally 
ended,  and  the  Cambodians  were  given  control  of  most  adminis- 
trative functions.  Cambodian  armed  forces  were  granted  freedom 
of  action  within  a  self-governing  autonomous  zone  comprising 
Batdambang  and  Siemreab  provinces,  which  had  been  recovered 
from  Thailand  after  World  War  II,  but  which  the  French,  hard- 
pressed  elsewhere,  did  not  have  the  resources  to  control.  Cambo- 
dia was  still  required  to  coordinate  foreign  policy  matters  with  the 
High  Council  of  the  French  Union,  however,  and  France  retained 
a  significant  measure  of  control  over  the  judicial  system,  finances, 
and  customs.  Control  of  wartime  military  operations  outside  the 
autonomous  zone  remained  in  French  hands.  France  was  also  per- 
mitted to  maintain  military  bases  on  Cambodian  territory.  In  1950 
Cambodia  was  accorded  diplomatic  recognition  by  the  United  States 
and  by  most  noncommunist  powers,  but  in  Asia  only  Thailand  and 
the  Republic  of  Korea  (South  Korea)  extended  recognition. 


24 


Historical  Setting 


The  Democrats  won  a  majority  in  the  second  National  Assem- 
bly election  in  September  1951,  and  they  continued  their  policy 
of  opposing  the  king  on  practically  all  fronts.  In  an  effort  to  win 
greater  popular  approval,  Sihanouk  asked  the  French  to  release 
nationalist  Son  Ngoc  Thanh  from  exile  and  to  allow  him  to  return 
to  his  country.  He  made  a  triumphant  entry  into  Phnom  Penh  on 
October  29,  1951.  It  was  not  long,  however,  before  he  began 
demanding  withdrawal  of  French  troops  from  Cambodia.  He  reiter- 
ated this  demand  in  early  1952  in  Khmer  Krok  (Khmer  Awake)  a 
weekly  newspaper  that  he  had  founded.  The  newspaper  was  forced 
to  cease  publication  in  March,  and  Son  Ngoc  Thanh  fled  the  capi- 
tal with  a  few  armed  followers  to  join  the  Khmer  Issarak.  Branded 
alternately  a  communist  and  an  agent  of  the  United  States  Cen- 
tral Intelligence  Agency  (CIA)  by  Sihanouk,  he  remained  in  exile 
until  Lon  Nol  established  the  Khmer  Republic  in  1970. 

In  June  1952,  Sihanouk  announced  the  dismissal  of  his  cabinet, 
suspended  the  constitution,  and  assumed  control  of  the  govern- 
ment as  prime  minister.  Then,  without  clear  constitutional  sanc- 
tion, he  dissolved  the  National  Assembly  and  proclaimed  martial 
law  in  January  1953.  Sihanouk  exercised  direct  rule  for  almost  three 
years,  from  June  1952  until  February  1955.  After  dissolution  of 
the  assembly,  he  created  an  Advisory  Council  to  supplant  the  legis- 
lature and  appointed  his  father,  Norodom  Suramarit,  as  regent. 

In  March  1953,  Sihanouk  went  to  France.  Ostensibly,  he  was 
traveling  for  his  health;  actually,  he  was  mounting  an  intensive 
campaign  to  persuade  the  French  to  grant  complete  independence. 
The  climate  of  opinion  in  Cambodia  at  the  time  was  such  that  if 
he  did  not  achieve  full  independence  quickly,  the  people  were  likely 
to  turn  to  Son  Ngoc  Thanh  and  the  Khmer  Issarak,  who  were  fully 
committed  to  attaining  that  goal.  At  meetings  with  the  French  presi- 
dent and  with  other  high  officials,  the  French  suggested  that  Siha- 
nouk was  unduly  "alarmist"  about  internal  political  conditions. 
The  French  also  made  the  thinly  veiled  threat  that,  if  he  continued 
to  be  uncooperative,  they  might  replace  him.  The  trip  appeared 
to  be  a  failure,  but  on  his  way  home  by  way  of  the  United  States, 
Canada,  and  Japan,  Sihanouk  publicized  Cambodia's  plight  in  the 
media. 

To  further  dramatize  his  "royal  crusade  for  independence," 
Sihanouk,  declaring  that  he  would  not  return  until  the  French  gave 
assurances  that  full  independence  would  be  granted,  left  Phnom 
Penh  in  June  to  go  into  self-imposed  exile  in  Thailand.  Unwel- 
come in  Bangkok,  he  moved  to  his  royal  villa  near  the  ruins  of 
Angkor  in  Siemreab  Province.  Siemreab,  part  of  the  autonomous 
military  zone  established  in  1949,  was  commanded  by  Lieutenant 


25 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Colonel  Lon  Nol,  formerly  a  right-wing  politician  who  was  becom- 
ing a  prominent,  and  in  time  would  be  an  indispensable,  Sihanouk 
ally  within  the  military.  From  his  Siemreab  base,  the  king  and  Lon 
Nol  contemplated  plans  for  resistance  if  the  French  did  not  meet 
their  terms. 

Sihanouk  was  making  a  high- stakes  gamble,  for  the  French  could 
easily  have  replaced  him  with  a  more  pliable  monarch;  however, 
the  military  situation  was  deteriorating  throughout  Indochina,  and 
the  French  government,  on  July  3,  1953,  declared  itself  ready  to 
grant  full  independence  to  the  three  states  of  Cambodia,  Vietnam, 
and  Laos.  Sihanouk  insisted  on  his  own  terms,  which  included  full 
control  of  national  defense,  the  police,  the  courts,  and  financial 
matters.  The  French  yielded:  the  police  and  the  judiciary  were  trans- 
ferred to  Cambodian  control  at  the  end  of  August,  and  in  October 
the  country  assumed  full  command  of  its  military  forces.  King 
Sihanouk,  now  a  hero  in  the  eyes  of  his  people,  returned  to  Phnom 
Penh  in  triumph,  and  independence  day  was  celebrated  on  Novem- 
ber 9,  1953.  Control  of  residual  matters  affecting  sovereignty,  such 
as  financial  and  budgetary  affairs,  passed  to  the  new  Cambodian 
state  in  1954. 

Cambodia  under  Sihanouk,  1954-70 

Sihanouk  continues  to  be  one  of  the  most  controversial  figures 
in  Southeast  Asia's  turbulent,  and  often  tragic,  postwar  history. 
Admirers  view  him  as  one  of  the  country's  great  patriots,  whose 
insistence  on  strict  neutrality  kept  Cambodia  out  of  the  maelstrom 
of  war  and  out  of  the  revolution  in  neighboring  Vietnam  for  more 
than  fifteen  years  before  he  was  betrayed  by  his  close  associate, 
Lon  Nol.  Critics  attack  him  for  his  vanity,  eccentricities,  and  in- 
tolerance of  any  political  views  different  from  his  own.  One  such 
critic,  Michael  Vickery,  asserts  that  beneath  the  neutralist  rhetoric 
Sihanouk  presided  over  a  regime  that  was  oppressively  reaction- 
ary and,  in  some  instances,  as  violent  in  its  suppression  of  politi- 
cal opposition  as  the  Khmer  Rouge.  According  to  Vickery,  the  royal 
armed  forces  under  Lon  Nol  slaughtered  women  and  children  in 
pro-Khmer  Issarak  regions  of  Batdambang  in  1954  using  methods 
that  were  later  to  become  routine  under  Pol  Pot.  Another  critical 
observer,  Milton  E.  Osborne,  writing  as  an  Australian  expatriate 
in  Phnom  Penh  during  the  late  1960s,  describes  the  Sihanouk  years 
in  terms  of  unbridled  greed  and  corruption,  of  a  foreign  policy 
inspired  more  by  opportunism  than  by  the  desire  to  preserve  na- 
tional independence,  of  an  economy  and  a  political  system  that  were 
rapidly  coming  apart,  and  of  the  prince's  obsession  with  making 
outrageously  mediocre  films — one  of  which  starred  himself  and  his 
wife,  Princess  Monique. 


26 


Historical  Setting 


Sihanouk  was  all  of  these  things — patriot,  neutralist,  embodi- 
ment of  the  nation's  destiny,  eccentric,  rigid  defender  of  the  sta- 
tus quo,  and  promoter  of  the  worst  sort  of  patron-client  politics. 
He  believed  that  he  single-handedly  had  won  Cambodia's  indepen- 
dence from  the  French.  The  contributions  of  other  nationalists,  such 
as  Son  Ngoc  Thanh  and  the  Viet  Minh,  were  conveniently  forgot- 
ten. Sihanouk  also  believed  he  had  the  right  to  run  the  state  in 
a  manner  not  very  different  from  that  of  the  ancient  Khmer  kings — 
that  is,  as  an  extension  of  his  household.  Unlike  the  ancient  "god- 
kings,"  however,  he  established  genuine  rapport  with  ordinary 
Cambodians.  He  made  frequent,  often  impromptu,  trips  through- 
out the  country,  visiting  isolated  villages,  chatting  with  peasants, 
receiving  petitions,  passing  out  gifts,  and  scolding  officials  for  mis- 
management. According  to  British  author  and  journalist  William 
Shawcross,  Sihanouk  was  able  to  create  a  "unique  brand  of  per- 
sonal populism."  To  ordinary  Cambodians,  his  eccentricities,  vola- 
tility, short  temper,  sexual  escapades,  and  artistic  flights  of  fancy 
were  an  expression  of  royal  charisma  rather  than  an  occasion  for 
scandal.  Sihanouk's  delight  in  making  life  difficult  for  foreign  diplo- 
mats and  journalists,  moreover,  amused  his  subjects.  Ultimately, 
the  eccentric  humanity  of  Sihanouk  was  to  contrast  poignantly  with 
the  random  brutality  of  his  Khmer  Rouge  successors. 

The  Geneva  Conference 

Although  Cambodia  had  achieved  independence  by  late  1953, 
its  military  situation  remained  unsettled.  Noncommunist  factions 
of  the  Khmer  Issarak  had  joined  the  government,  but  communist 
Viet  Minh  activities  increased  at  the  very  time  French  Union  forces 
were  stretched  thin  elsewhere.  In  April  1954,  several  Viet  Minh 
battalions  crossed  the  border  into  Cambodia.  Royalist  forces  en- 
gaged them  but  could  not  force  their  complete  withdrawal.  In  part, 
the  communists  were  attempting  to  strengthen  their  bargaining 
position  at  the  Geneva  Conference  that  had  been  scheduled  to  begin 
in  late  April. 

The  Geneva  Conference  was  attended  by  representatives  of  Cam- 
bodia, North  Vietnam,  the  Associated  State  of  Vietnam  (the 
predecessor  of  the  Republic  of  Vietnam,  or  South  Vietnam),  Laos, 
the  People's  Republic  of  China,  the  Soviet  Union,  France,  Brit- 
ain, and  the  United  States.  One  goal  of  the  conference  was  to  restore 
a  lasting  peace  in  Indochina.  The  discussions  on  Indochina  began 
on  May  8,  1954.  The  North  Vietnamese  attempted  to  get  represen- 
tation for  the  resistance  government  that  had  been  established  in 
the  south,  but  failed.  On  July  21,  1954,  the  conference  reached 
an  agreement  calling  for  a  cessation  of  hostilities  in  Indochina.  With 


27 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

respect  to  Cambodia,  the  agreement  stipulated  that  all  Viet  Minh 
military  forces  be  withdrawn  within  ninety  days  and  that  Cambo- 
dian resistance  forces  be  demobilized  within  thirty  days.  In  a 
separate  agreement  signed  by  the  Cambodian  representative,  the 
French  and  the  Viet  Minh  agreed  to  withdraw  all  forces  from  Cam- 
bodian soil  by  October  1954. 

In  exchange  for  the  withdrawal  of  Viet  Minh  forces,  the  com- 
munist representatives  in  Geneva  wanted  full  neutrality  for  Cam- 
bodia and  for  Laos  that  would  prevent  the  basing  of  United  States 
military  forces  in  these  countries.  On  the  eve  of  the  conference's 
conclusion,  however,  the  Cambodian  representative,  Sam  Sary, 
insisted  that,  if  Cambodia  were  to  be  genuinely  independent,  it 
must  not  be  prohibited  from  seeking  whatever  military  assistance 
it  desired  (Cambodia  had  earlier  appealed  to  Washington  for  mili- 
tary aid).  The  conference  accepted  this  point  over  North  Vietnam's 
strenuous  objections.  In  the  final  agreement,  Cambodia  accepted 
a  watered-down  neutrality,  vowing  not  to  join  any  military  alli- 
ance "not  in  conformity  with  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations"  or  to  allow  the  basing  of  foreign  military  forces 
on  its  territory  "as  long  as  its  security  is  not  threatened." 

The  conference  agreement  established  the  International  Con- 
trol Commission  (officially  called  the  International  Commission 
for  Supervision  and  Control)  in  all  the  Indochinese  countries.  Made 
up  of  representatives  from  Canada,  Poland,  and  India,  it  super- 
vised the  cease-fire,  the  withdrawal  of  foreign  troops,  the  release 
of  prisoners  of  war,  and  overall  compliance  with  the  terms  of  the 
agreement.  The  French  and  most  of  the  Viet  Minh  forces  were 
withdrawn  on  schedule  in  October  1954. 

Domestic  Developments 

The  Geneva  agreement  also  stipulated  that  general  elections 
should  be  held  in  Cambodia  during  1955  and  that  the  International 
Control  Commission  should  monitor  them  to  ensure  fairness. 
Sihanouk  was  more  determined  than  ever  to  defeat  the  Democrats 
(who,  on  the  basis  of  their  past  record,  were  expected  to  win  the 
election).  The  king  attempted  unsuccessfully  to  have  the  constitu- 
tion amended.  On  March  2,  1955,  he  announced  his  abdication 
in  favor  of  his  father,  Norodom  Suramarit.  Assuming  the  title  of 
samdech  (prince),  Sihanouk  explained  that  this  action  was  neces- 
sary in  order  to  give  him  a  free  hand  to  engage  in  politics. 

To  challenge  the  Democrats,  Prince  Sihanouk  established  his  own 
political  machine,  the  oddly  named  Sangkum  Reastr  Niyum  (Popu- 
lar Socialist  Community),  commonly  referred  to  as  the  Sangkum. 
The  name  is  odd  because  its  most  important  components  were 


28 


Historical  Setting 


right-wing  parties  that  were  virulently  anticommunist.  The  Sang- 
kum's  emergence  in  early  1955  unified  most  right-wing  groups 
under  the  prince's  auspices.  In  the  September  election,  Sihanouk's 
new  party  decisively  defeated  the  Democrats,  the  Khmer  Indepen- 
dence Party  of  Son  Ngoc  Thanh,  and  the  leftist  Pracheachon 
(Citizens')  Party,  winning  83  percent  of  the  vote  and  all  of  the  seats 
in  the  National  Assembly. 

Khmer  nationalism,  loyalty  to  the  monarch,  struggle  against  in- 
justice and  corruption,  and  protection  of  the  Buddhist  religion  were 
major  themes  in  Sangkum  ideology.  The  party  adopted  a  particu- 
larly conservative  interpretation  of  Buddhism,  common  in  the  Ther- 
avada  countries  of  Southeast  Asia,  that  the  social  and  economic 
inequalities  among  people  were  legitimate  because  of  the  workings 
of  karma  (see  Buddhism,  ch.  2).  For  the  poorer  classes,  virtuous 
and  obedient  conduct  opened  up  the  possibility  of  being  born  into 
a  higher  station  in  a  future  life.  The  appeal  to  religion  won  the 
allegiance  of  the  country's  many  Buddhist  priests,  who  were  a  par- 
ticularly influential  group  in  rural  villages. 

As  the  1960s  began,  organized  political  opposition  to  Sihanouk 
and  the  Sangkum  virtually  had  disappeared.  According  to  Vick- 
ery,  the  Democratic  Party  disbanded  in  1957  after  its  leaders — 
who  had  been  beaten  by  soldiers — requested  the  privilege  of  join- 
ing the  Sangkum. 

Despite  its  defense  of  the  status  quo,  especially  the  interests  of 
rural  elites,  the  Sangkum  was  not  an  exclusively  right-wing  organi- 
zation. Sihanouk  included  a  number  of  leftists  in  his  party  and 
government.  Among  these  were  future  leaders  of  the  Khmer  Rouge. 
Hu  Nim  and  Hou  Yuon  served  in  several  ministries  between  1958 
and  1963,  and  Khieu  Samphan  served  briefly  as  secretary  of  state 
for  commerce  in  1963. 

Sihanouk's  attitude  toward  the  left  was  paradoxical.  He  often 
declared  that  if  he  had  not  been  a  prince,  he  would  have  become 
a  revolutionary.  Sihanouk's  chronic  suspicion  of  United  States  in- 
tentions in  the  region,  his  perception  of  revolutionary  China  as 
Cambodia's  most  valuable  ally,  his  respect  for  such  prominent  and 
capable  leftists  as  Hou,  Hu,  and  Khieu,  and  his  vague  notions  of 
"royal  socialism"  all  impelled  him  to  experiment  with  socialist  poli- 
cies. In  1963  the  prince  announced  the  nationalization  of  bank- 
ing, foreign  trade,  and  insurance  as  a  means  of  reducing  foreign 
control  of  the  economy.  In  1964  a  state  trading  company,  the  Na- 
tional Export-Import  Corporation,  was  established  to  handle  for- 
eign commerce.  The  declared  purposes  of  nationalization  were  to 
give  Khmer  nationals,  rather  than  Chinese  or  Vietnamese,  a  greater 
role  in  the  nation's  trade,  to  eliminate  middlemen  and  to  conserve 


29 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

foreign  exchange  through  the  limiting  of  unnecessary  luxury  im- 
ports. As  a  result  of  this  policy,  foreign  investment  quickly  disap- 
peared, and  a  kind  of  "crony  socialism"  emerged  somewhat  similar 
to  the  "crony  capitalism"  that  evolved  in  the  Philippines  under 
President  Ferdinand  Marcos.  Lucrative  state  monopolies  were  par- 
celed out  to  Sihanouk's  most  loyal  retainers,  who  "milked"  them 
for  cash. 

Sihanouk  was  headed  steadily  for  a  collision  with  the  right.  To 
counter  charges  of  one-man  rule,  the  prince  declared  that  he  would 
relinquish  control  of  candidate  selection  and  would  permit  more 
than  one  Sangkum  candidate  to  run  for  each  seat  in  the  Septem- 
ber 1966  National  Assembly  election.  The  returns  showed  a  sur- 
prising upsurge  in  the  conservative  vote  at  the  expense  of  more 
moderate  and  left-wing  elements,  although  Hou,  Hu,  and  Khieu 
were  reelected  by  their  constituencies.  General  Lon  Nol  became 
prime  minister. 

Out  of  concern  that  the  right  wing  might  cause  an  irreparable 
split  within  the  Sangkum  and  might  challenge  his  domination  of 
the  political  system,  Sihanouk  set  up  a  "counter  government"  (like 
the  British  "shadow  cabinet")  packed  with  his  most  loyal  personal 
followers  and  with  leading  leftists,  hoping  that  it  would  exert  a  re- 
straining influence  on  Lon  Nol.  Leftists  accused  the  general  of  being 
groomed  by  Western  intelligence  agencies  to  lead  a  bloody  anticom- 
munist  coup  d'etat  similar  to  that  of  General  Soeharto  in  Indone- 
sia. Injured  in  an  automobile  accident,  Lon  Nol  resigned  in  April 
1967.  Sihanouk  replaced  him  with  a  trusted  centrist,  Son  Sann. 
This  was  the  twenty-third  successive  Sangkum  cabinet  and  govern- 
ment to  have  been  appointed  by  Sihanouk  since  the  party  was 
formed  in  1955. 

Nonaligned  Foreign  Policy 

Sihanouk's  nonaligned  foreign  policy,  which  emerged  in  the 
months  following  the  Geneva  Conference,  cannot  be  understood 
without  reference  to  Cambodia's  past  history  of  foreign  subjuga- 
tion and  its  very  uncertain  prospects  for  survival  as  the  war  be- 
tween North  Vietnam  and  South  Vietnam  intensified.  Soon  after 
the  1954  Geneva  Conference,  Sihanouk  expressed  some  interest 
in  integrating  Cambodia  into  the  framework  of  the  Southeast  Asia 
Treaty  Organization  (SEATO),  which  included  Cambodia,  Laos, 
and  South  Vietnam  within  the  "treaty  area,"  although  none  of 
these  states  was  a  signatory.  But  meetings  in  late  1954  with  India's 
Prime  Minister  J awaharlal  Nehru  and  Burma's  Premier  U  Nu 
made  him  receptive  to  the  appeal  of  nonalignment.  Moreover,  the 
prince  was  somewhat  uneasy  about  a  United  States-dominated 


30 


Angkor  Wat  and  its  galleries 
Courtesy  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Hammerquist 

alliance  that  included  one  old  enemy,  Thailand,  and  encompassed 
another,  South  Vietnam,  each  of  which  offered  sanctuary  to  anti- 
Sihanouk  dissidents. 

At  the  Bandung  Conference  in  April  1955,  Sihanouk  held  pri- 
vate meetings  with  Premier  Zhou  Enlai  of  China  and  Foreign 
Minister  Pham  Van  Dong  of  North  Vietnam.  Both  assured  him 
that  their  countries  would  respect  Cambodia's  independence  and 
territorial  integrity.  His  experience  with  the  French,  first  as  a  client, 
then  as  the  self-proclaimed  leader  of  the  "royal  crusade  for  indepen- 
dence," apparently  led  him  to  conclude  that  the  United  States, 
like  France,  would  eventually  be  forced  to  leave  Southeast  Asia. 
From  this  perspective,  the  Western  presence  in  Indochina  was  only 
a  temporary  interruption  of  the  dynamics  of  the  region — continued 
Vietnamese  (and  perhaps  even  Thai)  expansion  at  Cambodia's  ex- 
pense. Accommodation  with  North  Vietnam  and  friendly  ties  with 
China  during  the  late  1950s  and  the  1960s  were  tactics  designed 
to  counteract  these  dynamics.  China  accepted  Sihanouk's  overtures 
and  became  a  valuable  counterweight  to  growing  Vietnamese  and 
Thai  pressure  on  Cambodia. 

Cambodia's  relations  with  China  were  based  on  mutual  interests. 
Sihanouk  hoped  that  China  would  restrain  the  Vietnamese  and  the 
Thai  from  acting  to  Cambodia's  detriment.  The  Chinese,  in  turn, 
viewed  Cambodia's  nonalignment  as  vital  in  order  to  prevent  the 


31 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

encirclement  of  their  country  by  the  United  States  and  its  allies. 
When  Premier  Zhou  Enlai  visited  Phnom  Penh  in  1956,  he  asked 
the  country's  Chinese  minority,  numbering  about  300,000,  to 
cooperate  in  Cambodia's  development,  to  stay  out  of  politics,  and 
to  consider  adopting  Cambodian  citizenship.  This  gesture  helped 
to  resolve  a  sensitive  issue — the  loyalty  of  Cambodian  Chinese — 
that  had  troubled  the  relationship  between  Phnom  Penh  and  Bei- 
jing. In  1960  the  two  countries  signed  a  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 
Nonaggression.  After  the  Sino-Soviet  rift  Sihanouk's  ardent  friend- 
ship with  China  contributed  to  generally  cooler  ties  with  Moscow. 

China  was  not  the  only  large  power  to  which  Sihanouk  looked 
for  patronage,  however.  Cambodia's  quest  for  security  and  nation- 
building  assistance  impelled  the  prince  to  search  beyond  Asia  and 
to  accept  help  from  all  donors  as  long  as  there  was  no  impinge- 
ment upon  his  country's  sovereignty.  With  this  end  in  mind, 
Sihanouk  turned  to  the  United  States  in  1955  and  negotiated  a  mili- 
tary aid  agreement  that  secured  funds  and  equipment  for  the  Royal 
Khmer  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Royales  Khmeres — 
FARK — see  Appendix  B).  A  United  States  Military  Assistance 
Advisory  Group  (MAAG)  was  established  in  Phnom  Penh  to  super- 
vise the  delivery  and  the  use  of  equipment  that  began  to  arrive  from 
the  United  States.  By  the  early  1960s,  aid  from  Washington  con- 
stituted 30  percent  of  Cambodia's  defense  budget  and  14  percent 
of  total  budget  inflows  (see  The  First  Indochina  War,  1945-54, 
ch.  5). 

Relations  with  the  United  States,  however,  proved  to  be  stormy. 
United  States  officials  both  in  Washington  and  in  Phnom  Penh 
frequently  underestimated  the  prince  and  considered  him  to  be  an 
erratic  figure  with  minimal  understanding  of  the  threat  posed  by 
Asian  communism.  Sihanouk  easily  reciprocated  this  mistrust  be- 
cause several  developments  aroused  his  suspicion  of  United  States 
intentions  toward  his  country. 

One  of  these  developments  was  the  growing  United  States  in- 
fluence within  the  Cambodian  armed  forces.  The  processing  of 
equipment  deliveries  and  the  training  of  Cambodian  personnel  had 
forged  close  ties  between  United  States  military  advisers  and  their 
Cambodian  counterparts.  Military  officers  of  both  nations  also 
shared  apprehensions  about  the  spread  of  communism  in  Southeast 
Asia.  Sihanouk  considered  FARK  to  be  Washington's  most  power- 
ful constituency  in  his  country.  The  prince  also  feared  that  a  number 
of  high-ranking,  rightist  FARK  officers  led  by  Lon  Nol  were  be- 
coming too  powerful  and  that,  by  association  with  these  officers, 
United  States  influence  in  Cambodia  was  becoming  too  deeply 
rooted. 


32 


Historical  Setting 


A  second  development  included  the  repetition  of  overflights  by 
United  States  and  South  Vietnamese  military  aircraft  within  Cam- 
bodian airspace  and  border  incursions  by  South  Vietnamese  troops 
in  hot  pursuit  of  Viet  Cong  insurgents  who  crossed  into  Cambo- 
dian territory  when  military  pressure  upon  them  became  too  sus- 
tained. As  the  early  1960s  wore  on,  this  increasingly  sensitive  issue 
contributed  to  the  deterioration  of  relations  between  Phnom  Penh 
and  Washington. 

A  third  development  was  Sihanouk's  own  belief  that  he  had  been 
targeted  by  United  States  intelligence  agencies  for  replacement  by 
a  more  pro-Western  leader.  Evidence  to  support  this  suspicion  came 
to  light  in  1959  when  the  government  discovered  a  plot  to  over- 
throw Sihanouk.  The  conspiracy  involved  several  Khmer  leaders 
suspected  of  American  connections.  Among  them  were  Sam  Sary, 
a  leader  of  right-wing  Khmer  Serei  troops  in  South  Vietnam;  Son 
Ngoc  Thanh,  the  early  nationalist  leader  once  exiled  into  Thailand; 
and  Dap  Chhuon,  the  military  governor  of  Siemreab  Province. 
Another  alleged  plot  involved  Dap  Chhuon' s  establishment  of  a 
"free"  state  that  would  have  included  Siemreab  Province  and  Kam- 
pong  Thum  (Kampong  Thorn)  Province  and  the  southern  areas 
of  Laos  that  were  controlled  by  the  rightist  Laotian  prince,  Boun 
Oum. 

These  developments,  magnified  by  Sihanouk's  abiding  suspi- 
cions, eventually  undermined  Phnom  Penh's  relations  with  Wash- 
ington. In  November  1963,  the  prince  charged  that  the  United 
States  was  continuing  to  support  the  subversive  activities  of  the 
Khmer  Serei  in  Thailand  and  in  South  Vietnam,  and  he  announced 
the  immediate  termination  of  Washington's  aid  program  to  Cam- 
bodia. Relations  continued  to  deteriorate,  and  the  final  break  came 
in  May  1965  amid  increasing  indications  of  airspace  violations  by 
South  Vietnamese  and  by  United  States  aircraft  and  of  ground  fight- 
ing between  Army  of  the  Republic  of  Vietnam  (ARVN)  troops  and 
Viet  Cong  insurgents  in  the  Cambodian  border  areas. 

In  the  meantime,  Cambodia's  relations  with  North  Vietnam  and 
with  South  Vietnam,  as  well  as  the  rupture  with  Washington, 
reflected  Sihanouk's  efforts  to  adjust  to  geopolitical  realities  in 
Southeast  Asia  and  to  keep  his  country  out  of  the  escalating  con- 
flict in  neighboring  South  Vietnam.  In  the  early  to  mid-1960s,  this 
effort  required  a  tilt  toward  Hanoi  because  the  government  in 
Saigon  tottered  on  the  brink  of  anarchy.  In  the  cities,  the  adminis- 
tration of  Ngo  Dinh  Diem  and  the  military  regimes  that  succeeded 
it  had  become  increasingly  ineffectual  and  unstable,  while  in  the 
countryside  the  government  forces  were  steadily  losing  ground  to 
the  Hanoi-backed  insurgents.  To  observers  in  Phnom  Penh,  South 


33 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Vietnam's  short-term  viability  was  seriously  in  doubt,  and  this  com- 
pelled a  new  tack  in  Cambodian  foreign  policy.  First,  Cambodia 
severed  diplomatic  ties  with  Saigon  in  August  1963.  The  follow- 
ing March,  Sihanouk  announced  plans  to  establish  diplomatic  re- 
lations with  North  Vietnam  and  to  negotiate  a  border  settlement 
directly  with  Hanoi.  These  plans  were  not  implemented  quickly, 
however,  because  the  North  Vietnamese  told  the  prince  that  any 
problem  concerning  Cambodia's  border  with  South  Vietnam  would 
have  to  be  negotiated  directly  with  the  National  Front  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  South  Vietnam  (NFLSVN — see  Appendix  B).  Cambodia 
opened  border  talks  with  the  front  in  mid- 1966,  and  the  latter  recog- 
nized the  inviolability  of  Cambodia's  borders  a  year  later.  North 
Vietnam  quickly  followed  suit.  Cambodia  was  the  first  foreign 
government  to  recognize  the  NFLSVN 's  Provisional  Revolution- 
ary Government  after  it  was  established  in  June  1969.  Sihanouk 
was  the  only  foreign  head  of  state  to  attend  the  funeral  of  Ho  Chi 
Minh,  North  Vietnam's  deceased  leader,  in  Hanoi  three  months 
later. 

In  the  late  1960s,  while  preserving  relations  with  China  and  with 
North  Vietnam,  Sihanouk  sought  to  restore  a  measure  of  equilib- 
rium by  improving  Cambodia's  ties  with  the  West.  This  shift  in 
course  by  the  prince  represented  another  adjustment  to  prevailing 
conditions  in  Southeast  Asia.  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong 
forces  were  increasing  their  use  of  sanctuaries  in  Cambodia,  which 
also  served  as  the  southern  terminus  of  the  Ho  Chi  Minh  Trail, 
their  logistical  resupply  route  originating  in  North  Vietnam.  Cam- 
bodian neutrality  in  the  conflict  thus  was  eroding,  and  China,  preoc- 
cupied with  its  Cultural  Revolution,  did  not  intercede  with  Hanoi. 
On  Cambodia's  eastern  border,  South  Vietnam,  surprisingly,  had 
not  collapsed,  even  in  the  face  of  the  communist  Tet  Offensive  in 
1968,  and  President  Nguyen  Van  Thieu's  government  was  bring- 
ing a  measure  of  stability  to  the  war-ravaged  country.  As  the  govern- 
ment in  Phnom  Penh  began  to  feel  keenly  the  loss  of  economic  and 
military  aid  from  the  United  States,  which  had  totaled  about 
US$400  million  between  1955  and  1963,  it  began  to  have  second 
thoughts  about  the  rupture  with  Washington.  The  unavailability 
of  American  equipment  and  spare  parts  was  exacerbated  by  the 
poor  quality  and  the  small  numbers  of  Soviet,  Chinese,  and  French 
substitutes. 

In  late  1967  and  in  early  1968,  Sihanouk  signaled  that  he  would 
raise  no  objection  to  hot  pursuit  of  communist  forces  by  South  Viet- 
namese or  by  United  States  troops  into  Cambodian  territory. 
Washington,  in  the  meantime,  accepted  the  recommendation  of 
the  United  States  Military  Assistance  Command — Vietnam 


34 


Historical  Setting 


(MACV)  and,  beginning  in  March  1969,  ordered  a  series  of  air- 
strikes  (dubbed  the  Menu  series)  against  Cambodian  sanctuaries 
used  by  the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet  Cong.  Whether  or  not 
these  bombing  missions  were  authorized  aroused  considerable  con- 
troversy, and  assertions  by  the  Nixon  administration  that  Sihanouk 
had  "allowed"  or  even  "encouraged"  them  were  disputed  by  critics 
such  as  British  journalist  William  Shawcross.  On  a  diplomatic  level, 
however,  the  Menu  airstrikes  did  not  impede  bilateral  relations  from 
moving  forward.  In  April  1969,  Nixon  sent  a  note  to  the  prince 
affirming  that  the  United  States  recognized  and  respected  "the 
sovereignty,  neutrality  and  territorial  integrity  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia  with  its  present  frontiers."  Shortly  thereafter,  in  June 
1969,  full  diplomatic  relations  were  restored  between  Phnom  Penh 
and  Washington. 

The  Cambodian  Left:  The  Early  Phases 

The  history  of  the  communist  movement  in  Cambodia  can  be 
divided  into  six  phases:  the  emergence  of  the  Indochinese  Com- 
munist Party  (ICP  — see  Appendix  B),  whose  members  were  almost 
exclusively  Vietnamese,  before  World  War  II;  the  ten-year  strug- 
gle for  independence  from  the  French,  when  a  separate  Cambo- 
dian communist  party,  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 
Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B),  was  established 
under  Vietnamese  auspices;  the  period  following  the  Second  Party 
Congress  of  the  KPRP  in  1960,  when  Saloth  Sar  (Pol  Pot  after 
1976)  and  other  future  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  gained  control  of  its 
apparatus;  the  revolutionary  struggle  from  the  initiation  of  the 
Khmer  Rouge  insurgency  in  1967-68  to  the  fall  of  the  Lon  Nol 
government  in  April  1975;  the  Democratic  Kampuchea  regime, 
from  April  1975  to  January  1979;  and  the  period  following  the  Third 
Party  Congress  of  the  KPRP  in  January  1979,  when  Hanoi  effec- 
tively assumed  control  over  Cambodia's  government  and  com- 
munist party. 

Much  of  the  movement's  history  has  been  shrouded  in  mystery, 
largely  because  successive  purges,  especially  during  the  Democratic 
Kampuchea  period,  have  left  so  few  survivors  to  recount  their 
experiences.  One  thing  is  evident,  however;  the  tension  between 
Khmer  and  Vietnamese  was  a  major  theme  in  the  movement's 
development.  In  the  three  decades  between  the  end  of  World  War 
II  and  the  Khmer  Rouge  victory,  the  appeal  of  communism  to 
Western-educated  intellectuals  (and  to  a  lesser  extent  its  more 
inchoate  attraction  for  poor  peasants)  was  tempered  by  the  appre- 
hension that  the  much  stronger  Vietnamese  movement  was  using 
communism  as  an  ideological  rationale  for  dominating  the  Khmer. 


35 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  analogy  between  the  Vietnamese  communists  and  the  Nguyen 
dynasty,  which  had  legitimized  its  encroachments  in  the  nineteenth 
century  in  terms  of  the  4 'civilizing  mission"  of  Confucianism,  was 
persuasive.  Thus,  the  new  brand  of  indigenous  communism  that 
emerged  after  1960  combined  nationalist  and  revolutionary  appeals 
and,  when  it  could  afford  to,  exploited  the  virulent  anti- Vietnamese 
sentiments  of  the  Khmers.  Khmer  Rouge  literature  in  the  1970s 
frequently  referred  to  the  Vietnamese  asyuon  (barbarian),  a  term 
dating  from  the  Angkorian  period. 

In  1930  Ho  Chi  Minh  founded  the  Vietnamese  Communist  Party 
by  unifying  three  smaller  communist  movements  that  had  emerged 
in  Tonkin,  in  Annam,  and  in  Cochinchina  during  the  late  1920s. 
The  name  was  changed  almost  immediately  to  the  ICP,  ostensi- 
bly to  include  revolutionaries  from  Cambodia  and  Laos.  Almost 
without  exception,  however,  all  the  earliest  party  members  were 
Vietnamese.  By  the  end  of  World  War  II,  a  handful  of  Cambo- 
dians had  joined  its  ranks,  but  their  influence  on  the  Indochinese 
communist  movement  and  on  developments  within  Cambodia  was 
negligible. 

Viet  Minh  units  occasionally  made  forays  into  Cambodia  bases 
during  their  war  against  the  French,  and,  in  conjunction  with  the 
leftist  government  that  ruled  Thailand  until  1947,  the  Viet  Minh 
encouraged  the  formation  of  armed,  left-wing  Khmer  Issarak  bands. 
On  April  17,  1950  (twenty-five  years  to  the  day  before  the  Khmer 
Rouge  captured  Phnom  Penh),  the  first  nationwide  congress  of  the 
Khmer  Issarak  groups  convened,  and  the  United  Issarak  Front  was 
established.  Its  leader  was  Son  Ngoc  Minh  (possibly  a  brother  of 
the  nationalist  Son  Ngoc  Thanh),  and  a  third  of  its  leadership  con- 
sisted of  members  of  the  ICP.  According  to  the  historian  David  P. 
Chandler,  the  leftist  Issarak  groups,  aided  by  the  Viet  Minh,  oc- 
cupied a  sixth  of  Cambodia's  territory  by  1952;  and,  on  the  eve 
of  the  Geneva  Conference,  they  controlled  as  much  as  one  half  of 
the  country. 

In  1951  the  ICP  was  reorganized  into  three  national  units — the 
Vietnam  Workers'  Party,  the  Lao  Itsala,  and  the  KPRP.  Accord- 
ing to  a  document  issued  after  the  reorganization,  the  Vietnam 
Workers'  Party  would  continue  to  "supervise"  the  smaller  Laotian 
and  Cambodian  movements.  Most  KPRP  leaders  and  rank-and- 
file  seem  to  have  been  either  Khmer  Krom,  or  ethnic  Vietnamese 
living  in  Cambodia.  The  party's  appeal  to  indigenous  Khmers 
appears  to  have  been  minimal. 

According  to  Democratic  Kampuchea's  version  of  party  history, 
the  Viet  Minh's  failure  to  negotiate  a  political  role  for  the  KPRP 
at  the  1954  Geneva  Conference  represented  a  betrayal  of  the 


36 


Ruins  of  the  Bay  on  Temple,  thirteenth  century 
Courtesy  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  E.  Hammerquist 

Cambodian  movement,  which  still  controlled  large  areas  of  the 
countryside  and  which  commanded  at  least  5,000  armed  men.  Fol- 
lowing the  conference,  about  1,000  members  of  the  KPRP,  includ- 
ing Son  Ngoc  Minh,  made  a  "Long  March"  into  North  Vietnam, 
where  they  remained  in  exile.  In  late  1954,  those  who  stayed  in 
Cambodia  founded  a  legal  political  party,  the  Pracheachon  Party, 
which  participated  in  the  1955  and  the  1958  National  Assembly 
elections.  In  the  September  1955  election,  it  won  about  4  percent 
of  the  vote  but  did  not  secure  a  seat  in  the  legislature.  Members 
of  the  Pracheachon  were  subject  to  constant  harassment  and  to 
arrests  because  the  party  remained  outside  Sihanouk's  Sangkum. 
Government  attacks  prevented  it  from  participating  in  the  1962 
election  and  drove  it  underground.  Sihanouk  habitually  labeled 
local  leftists  the  Khmer  Rouge  (see  Appendix  B),  a  term  that  later 
came  to  signify  the  party  and  the  state  headed  by  Pol  Pot,  Ieng 
Sary,  Khieu  Samphan,  and  their  associates. 

During  the  mid-1950s,  KPRP  factions,  the  "urban  committee" 
(headed  by  Tou  Samouth),  and  the  "rural  committee"  (headed 
by  Sieu  Heng),  emerged.  In  very  general  terms,  these  groups  es- 
poused divergent  revolutionary  lines.  The  prevalent  "urban"  line, 
endorsed  by  North  Vietnam,  recognized  that  Sihanouk,  by  virtue 
of  his  success  in  winning  independence  from  the  French,  was  a 
genuine  national  leader  whose  neutralism  and  deep  distrust  of  the 


37 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


United  States  made  him  a  valuable  asset  in  Hanoi's  struggle  to 
"liberate"  South  Vietnam.  Champions  of  this  line  hoped  that  the 
prince  could  be  persuaded  to  distance  himself  from  the  right  wing 
and  to  adopt  leftist  policies.  The  other  line,  supported  for  the  most 
part  by  rural  cadres  who  were  familiar  with  the  harsh  realities  of 
the  countryside,  advocated  an  immediate  struggle  to  overthrow  the 
"feudalist"  Sihanouk.  In  1959  Sieu  Heng  defected  to  the  govern- 
ment and  provided  the  security  forces  with  information  that  enabled 
them  to  destroy  as  much  as  90  percent  of  the  party's  rural  appara- 
tus. Although  communist  networks  in  Phnom  Penh  and  in  other 
towns  under  Tou  Samouth's  jurisdiction  fared  better,  only  a  few 
hundred  communists  remained  active  in  the  country  by  1960. 

The  Paris  Student  Group 

During  the  1950s,  Khmer  students  in  Paris  organized  their  own 
communist  movement,  which  had  little,  if  any,  connection  to  the 
hard-pressed  party  in  their  homeland.  From  their  ranks  came  the 
men  and  women  who  returned  home  and  took  command  of  the 
party  apparatus  during  the  1960s,  led  an  effective  insurgency  against 
Sihanouk  and  Lon  Nol  from  1968  until  1975,  and  established  the 
regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea. 

Pol  Pot,  who  rose  to  the  leadership  of  the  communist  movement 
in  the  1960s,  was  born  in  1928  (some  sources  say  in  1925)  in  Kam- 
pong  Thum  Province,  north  of  Phnom  Penh.  He  attended  a  tech- 
nical high  school  in  the  capital  and  then  went  to  Paris  in  1949  to 
study  radio  electronics  (other  sources  say  he  attended  a  school  for 
printers  and  typesetters  and  also  studied  civil  engineering). 
Described  by  one  source  as  a  "determined,  rather  plodding  or- 
ganizer," he  failed  to  obtain  a  degree,  but,  according  to  the  Jesuit 
priest,  Father  Francois  Ponchaud,  he  acquired  a  taste  for  the  clas- 
sics of  French  literature  as  well  as  for  the  writings  of  Marx. 

Another  member  of  the  Paris  student  group  was  Ieng  Sary.  He 
was  a  Chinese-Khmer  born  in  1930  in  South  Vietnam.  He  attended 
the  elite  Lycee  Sisowath  in  Phnom  Penh  before  beginning  courses 
in  commerce  and  politics  at  the  Institut  d' Etudes  Politiques  in 
France.  Khieu  Samphan,  considered  "one  of  the  most  brilliant  in- 
tellects of  his  generation,"  was  born  in  1931  and  specialized  in  eco- 
nomics and  politics  during  his  time  in  Paris.  In  talent  he  was  rivaled 
by  Hou  Yuon,  born  in  1930,  who  was  described  as  being  "of  truly 
astounding  physical  and  intellectual  strength,"  and  who  studied 
economics  and  law.  Son  Sen,  born  in  1930,  studied  education  and 
literature;  Hu  Nim,  born  in  1932,  studied  law. 

These  men  were  perhaps  the  most  educated  leaders  in  the  his- 
tory of  Asian  communism.  Two  of  them,  Khieu  Samphan  and  Hou 


38 


Historical  Setting 


Yuon,  earned  doctorates  from  the  University  of  Paris;  Hu  Nim 
obtained  his  degree  from  the  University  of  Phnom  Penh  in  1965. 
In  retrospect,  it  seems  enigmatic  that  these  talented  members  of 
the  elite,  sent  to  France  on  government  scholarships,  could  launch 
the  bloodiest  and  most  radical  revolution  in  modern  Asian  history. 
Most  came  from  landowner  or  civil  servant  families.  Pol  Pot  and 
Hou  Yuon  may  have  been  related  to  the  royal  family.  An  older 
sister  of  Pol  Pot  had  been  a  concubine  at  the  court  of  King 
Monivong.  Three  of  the  Paris  group  forged  a  bond  that  survived 
years  of  revolutionary  struggle  and  intraparty  strife,  Pol  Pot  and 
Ieng  Sary  married  Khieu  Ponnary  and  Khieu  Thirith  (also  known 
as  Ieng  Thirith),  purportedly  relatives  of  Khieu  Samphan.  These 
two  well-educated  women  also  played  a  central  role  in  the  regime 
of  Democratic  Kampuchea. 

The  intellectual  ferment  of  Paris  must  have  been  a  dizzying  ex- 
perience for  young  Khmers  fresh  from  Phnom  Penh  or  the 
provinces.  A  number  sought  refuge  in  the  dogma  of  orthodox 
Marxism-Leninism.  At  some  time  between  1949  and  1951,  Pol  Pot 
and  Ieng  Sary  joined  the  French  Communist  Party,  the  most  tightiy 
disciplined  and  Stalinist  of  Western  Europe's  communist  move- 
ments. In  1951  the  two  men  went  to  East  Berlin  to  participate  in 
a  youth  festival.  This  experience  is  considered  to  have  been  a  turning 
point  in  their  ideological  development.  Meeting  with  Khmers  who 
were  fighting  with  the  Viet  Minn  (and  whom  they  subsequently 
judged  to  be  too  subservient  to  the  Vietnamese),  they  became  con- 
vinced that  only  a  tighdy  disciplined  party  organization  and  a  read- 
iness for  armed  struggle  could  achieve  revolution.  They  transformed 
the  Khmer  Students'  Association  (KSA),  to  which  most  of  the  200 
or  so  Khmer  students  in  Paris  belonged,  into  a  platform  for  na- 
tionalist and  leftist  ideas.  In  1952  Pol  Pot,  Hou  Yuon,  Ieng  Sary, 
and  other  leftists  gained  notoriety  by  sending  an  open  letter  to 
Sihanouk  calling  him  the  "strangler  of  infant  democracy."  A  year 
later,  the  French  authorities  closed  down  the  KSA.  In  1956, 
however,  Hou  Yuon  and  Khieu  Samphan  helped  to  establish  a  new 
Marxist-oriented  group,  the  Khmer  Students'  Union. 

The  doctoral  dissertations  written  by  Hou  Yuon  and  Khieu  Sam- 
phan express  basic  themes  that  were  later  to  become  the  corner- 
stones of  the  policy  adopted  by  Democratic  Kampuchea.  The  central 
role  of  the  peasants  in  national  development  was  espoused  by  Hou 
Yuon  in  his  1955  thesis,  "The  Cambodian  Peasants  and  Their 
Prospects  for  Modernization,"  which  challenged  the  conventional 
view  that  urbanization  and  industrialization  are  necessary  precur- 
sors of  development.  The  major  argument  in  Khieu  Samphan 's 
1959  thesis,  "Cambodia's  Economy  and  Industrial  Development," 


39 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

was  that  the  country  had  to  become  self-reliant  and  had  to  end  its 
economic  dependency  on  the  developed  world.  In  its  general  con- 
tours, Khieu's  work  reflected  the  influence  of  a  branch  of  the  "de- 
pendency theory"  school,  which  blamed  lack  of  development  in 
the  Third  World  on  the  economic  domination  of  the  industrial- 
ized nations. 

The  KPRP  Second  Congress 

After  returning  to  Cambodia  in  1953,  Pol  Pot  threw  himself  into 
party  work  first  in  Kampong  Cham  Province  (Kompong  Cham) 
and  then  in  Phnom  Penh  under  Tou  Samouth's  "urban  commit- 
tee." His  comrades,  Ieng  Sary  and  Hou  Yuon,  became  teachers 
at  a  new  private  high  school,  the  Lycee  Kambuboth,  which  Hou 
Yuon  helped  to  establish.  Khieu  Samphan  returned  from  Paris  in 
1959,  taught  as  a  member  of  the  law  faculty  of  the  University  of 
Phnom  Penh,  and  started  a  left-wing,  French-language  publica- 
tion, L'Observateur.  The  paper  soon  acquired  a  reputation  in  Phnom 
Penh's  small  academic  circle.  The  following  year,  the  government 
closed  the  paper,  and  Sihanouk's  police  publicly  humiliated  Khieu 
by  undressing  and  photographing  him  in  public — as  Shawcross 
notes,  "not  the  sort  of  humiliation  that  men  forgive  or  forget." 
Yet  the  experience  did  not  prevent  Khieu  from  advocating  cooper- 
ation with  Sihanouk  in  order  to  promote  a  united  front  against 
United  States  activities  in  South  Vietnam.  As  mentioned,  Khieu 
Samphan,  Hou  Yuon,  and  Hu  Nim  tried  to  "work  through  the 
system"  by  joining  the  Sangkum  and  by  accepting  posts  in  the 
prince's  government.  Hardliners  like  Pol  Pot,  Ieng  Sary,  and  Son 
Sen  advocated  resistance. 

In  late  September  1960,  twenty-one  leaders  of  the  KPRP  held 
a  secret  congress  in  a  vacant  room  of  the  Phnom  Penh  railroad 
station.  This  pivotal  event  remains  shrouded  in  mystery  because 
its  outcome  has  become  an  object  of  contention  (and  considerable 
historical  rewriting)  between  pro-Vietnamese  and  anti- Vietnamese 
Khmer  communist  factions.  The  question  of  cooperation  with,  or 
resistance  to,  Sihanouk  was  thoroughly  discussed.  Tou  Samouth, 
who  advocated  a  policy  of  cooperation,  was  elected  general  secre- 
tary of  the  KPRP  that  was  renamed  the  Workers'  Party  of  Kam- 
puchea (WPK — see  Appendix  B).  His  ally,  Nuon  Chea  (also  known 
as  Long  Reth),  became  deputy  general  secretary;  however,  Pol  Pot 
and  Ieng  Sary  were  named  to  the  Political  Bureau  to  occupy  the 
third  and  the  fifth  highest  positions  in  the  renamed  party's  hierar- 
chy. The  name  change  is  significant.  By  calling  itself  a  workers' 
party,  the  Cambodian  movement  claimed  equal  status  with  the 
Vietnam  Workers'  Party.  The  pro- Vietnamese  regime  of  the 


40 


Historical  Setting 


People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  (PRK — see  Appendix  B)  implied 
in  the  1980s  that  the  September  1960  meeting  was  nothing  more 
than  the  second  congress  of  the  KPRP. 

On  July  20,  1962,  Tou  Samouth  disappeared.  He  may  have  been 
the  victim  of  Sihanouk's  police,  but  some  observers  suggest  that 
Pol  Pot,  who  had  built  up  a  strong  faction  within  the  party,  had 
him  eliminated.  In  February  1963,  at  the  WPK's  second  congress, 
Pol  Pot  was  chosen  to  succeed  Tou  Samouth  as  the  party's  gen- 
eral secretary.  Tou's  allies,  Nuon  Chea  and  Keo  Meas,  were  re- 
moved from  the  Central  Committee  and  replaced  by  Son  Sen  and 
Vorn  Vet.  From  then  on,  Pol  Pot  and  loyal  comrades  from  his  Paris 
student  days  controlled  the  party  center,  edging  out  older  veterans 
whom  they  considered  excessively  pro-Vietnamese. 

In  July  1963,  Pol  Pot  and  most  of  the  central  committee  left 
Phnom  Penh  to  establish  an  insurgent  base  in  Rotanokiri 
(Ratanakiri)  Province  in  the  northeast.  This  is  a  region  inhabited 
by  tribal  minorities,  the  Khmer  Loeu  (see  Appendix  B),  whose 
rough  treatment  (including  resettlement  and  forced  assimilation) 
at  the  hands  of  the  central  government  made  them  willing  recruits 
for  a  guerrilla  struggle.  In  1965  Pol  Pot  made  a  visit  of  several 
months  duration  to  North  Vietnam  and  China.  He  probably 
received  some  training  in  China,  which  must  have  enhanced  his 
prestige  when  he  returned  to  the  WPK's  liberated  areas.  Despite 
friendly  relations  between  Sihanouk  and  the  Chinese,  the  latter  kept 
Pol  Pot's  visit  a  secret  from  Sihanouk.  In  September  1966,  the  party 
changed  its  name  a  second  time,  to  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer) 
Communist  Party  (KCP — see  Appendix  B).  Adopting  the  label 
4 'communist"  suggested  that  the  Cambodian  movement  was  more 
advanced  than  Vietnam's  (which  was  merely  a  "workers'  party"), 
and  was  on  the  same  level  as  China's. 

Into  the  Maelstrom:  Insurrection  and  War,  1967-75 

By  the  mid-1960s,  Sihanouk's  delicate  balancing  act  was  begin- 
ning to  go  awry.  Regionally,  the  presence  of  large-scale  North  Viet- 
namese and  Viet  Cong  logistical  bases  on  Cambodian  territory  and 
the  use  of  Kampong  Saom  (then  Sihanoukville)  as  a  port  of  dis- 
embarkation for  supplies  being  sent  to  communist  troops,  as  well 
as  the  covert  intelligence-gathering,  sabotage  missions,  and  over- 
flights by  South  Vietnamese  and  United  States  teams  had  made 
a  sham  of  Cambodian  neutrality.  Domestically,  Sihanouk's  sporadic 
harassment  of  the  leftists  and  the  withdrawal  of  his  endorsement 
from  all  candidates  in  the  1966  elections  cost  the  radicals  their 
chance  for  victory  and  alienated  them  from  the  prince  as  well. 
Sihanouk  also  lost  the  support  of  the  rightists  by  his  failure  to  come 


41 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

to  grips  with  the  deteriorating  economic  situation  in  the  country 
and  with  the  growing  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong  military 
presence  in  Cambodia.  In  addition  to  these  regional  develop- 
ments and  the  clash  of  interests  among  Phnom  Penh's  politicized 
elite,  social  tensions  also  were  creating  a  favorable  environment 
for  the  growth  of  a  domestic  communist  insurgency  in  the  rural 
areas. 

In  early  1967,  an  insurrection  broke  out  in  the  area  around 
Samlot  in  Batdambang,  a  province  long  noted  for  the  presence  of 
large  landowners  and  great  disparities  of  wealth.  Local  resentment 
focused  on  tax  collections  and  on  the  decision  of  the  revenue-starved 
government  to  expropriate  land  to  build  a  sugar  refinery  near 
Samlot.  In  January  1967,  irate  villagers  attacked  a  tax  collection 
brigade — an  incident  that  recalled  the  1925  murder  of  the  French 
resident  in  the  area.  With  the  probable  encouragement  of  local  com- 
munist cadres,  the  insurrection  quickly  spread  through  the  whole 
region.  Sihanouk  was  on  one  of  his  frequent  sojourns  in  France, 
and  Lon  Nol,  the  prime  minister,  responded  harshly.  After  return- 
ing home  in  March  1967,  Sihanouk  personally  supervised  counter- 
insurgency  measures.  He  later  mentioned,  in  an  offhand  way,  that 
the  effectiveness  of  the  royal  armed  forces  had  restored  the  peace 
but  that  approximately  10,000  people  had  died. 

The  insurgency  was  not  suppressed  completely.  It  spread  rapidly 
from  Batdambang  to  the  southern  and  to  the  southwestern  provinces 
of  Pouthisat  (Pursat),  Kampong  Chhnang  (Kompong  Chang), 
Kampong  Cham,  Kampong  Spoe  (Kompong  Speu),  Kampot,  and 
the  central  province  of  Kampong  Thum.  By  the  end  of  1968,  un- 
rest was  reported  in  eleven  of  the  country's  eighteen  provinces. 
The  Khmer  Loeu  regions  of  Mondol  Kiri  (Mondolkiri)  Province 
and  Rotanokiri  Province  fell  almost  entirely  under  KCP  control 
by  the  end  of  the  decade. 

In  January  1968,  the  communists  established  the  Revolution- 
ary Army  of  Kampuchea  (RAK — see  Appendix  B;  The  Second 
Indochina  War,  1954-75,  ch.  5).  During  Sihanouk's  last  two  years 
in  power,  the  RAK  obtained  minimal  assistance  from  the  North 
Vietnamese,  the  Viet  Cong,  and  the  Chinese.  Although  North  Viet- 
nam had  established  a  special  unit  in  1966  to  train  the  Cambo- 
dian communists,  it  was  extremely  reluctant  to  alienate  Sihanouk 
at  a  time  when  vital  supplies  were  passing  through  the  port  of 
Kampong  Saom  and  along  the  Ho  Chi  Minh  Trail  to  the  Viet  Cong 
bases  along  the  Cambodia- Vietnam  border.  Beijing  and  Moscow 
also  were  providing  Sihanouk  with  arms,  many  of  which  were  being 
used  against  the  insurgents.  The  indifference  of  the  world  com- 
munist movement  to  the  Cambodian  struggle  from  1967  to  1969 


42 


Historical  Setting 


made  a  permanent  impression  on  Pol  Pot  and  other  Khmer  Rouge 
leaders. 

The  March  1970  Coup  d'Etat 

Sihanouk  was  away  on  a  trip  to  Moscow  and  Beijing  when  Gen- 
eral Lon  Nol  launched  a  successful  coup  d'etat.  On  the  morning 
of  March  18,  1970,  the  National  Assembly  was  hastily  convened, 
and  voted  unanimously  to  depose  Sihanouk  as  head  of  state.  Lon 
Nol,  who  had  been  serving  as  prime  minister,  was  granted  emer- 
gency powers.  Sirik  Matak,  an  ultraconservative  royal  prince  who 
in  1941  had  been  passed  over  by  the  French  in  favor  of  his  cousin 
Norodom  Sihanouk  as  king,  retained  his  post  as  deputy  prime 
minister.  The  new  government  emphasized  that  the  transfer  of 
power  had  been  totally  legal  and  constitutional,  and  it  received  the 
recognition  of  most  foreign  governments. 

Most  middle-class  and  educated  Khmers  in  Phnom  Penh  had 
grown  weary  of  Sihanouk  and  apparently  welcomed  the  change 
of  government.  But  he  was  still  popular  in  the  villages.  Days  after 
the  coup,  the  prince,  now  in  Beijing,  broadcast  an  appeal  to  the 
people  to  resist  the  usurpers.  Demonstrations  and  riots  occurred 
throughout  the  country.  In  one  incident  on  March  29,  an  estimated 
40,000  peasants  began  a  march  on  the  capital  to  demand  Sihanouk's 
reinstatement.  They  were  dispersed,  with  many  casualties,  by  con- 
tingents of  the  armed  forces  and  the  Khmer  Serei. 

From  Beijing,  Sihanouk  proclaimed  his  intention  to  create  a 
National  United  Front  of  Kampuchea  (Front  Uni  National  du 
Kampuchea— FUNK — see  Appendix  B).  In  the  prince's  words, 
this  front  would  embrace  4 'all  Khmer  both  inside  and  outside  the 
country — including  the  faithful,  religious  people,  military  men, 
civilians,  and  men  and  women  who  cherish  the  ideals  of  indepen- 
dence, democracy,  neutrality,  progressivism,  socialism,  Buddhism, 
nationalism,  territorial  integrity,  and  anti-imperialism."  A  coali- 
tion, brokered  by  the  Chinese,  was  hastily  formed  between  the 
prince  and  the  KCP.  On  May  5,  1970,  the  actual  establishment 
of  FUNK  and  of  the  Royal  Government  of  National  Union  of  Kam- 
puchea (Gouvernement  Royal  d' Union  Nationale  du  Kampuchea — 
GRUNK — see  Appendix  B),  were  announced.  Sihanouk  assumed 
the  post  of  GRUNK  head  of  state,  appointing  Penn  Nouth,  one 
of  his  most  loyal  supporters,  as  prime  minister.  Khieu  Samphan 
was  designated  deputy  prime  minister,  minister  of  defense,  and 
commander  in  chief  of  the  GRUNK  armed  forces  (though  ac- 
tual military  operations  were  directed  by  Pol  Pot).  Hu  Nim  be- 
came minister  of  information,  and  Hou  Yuon  assumed  multiple 
responsibilities  as  minister  of  interior,  communal  reforms,  and 


43 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

cooperatives.  GRUNK  claimed  that  it  was  not  a  government-in- 
exile  because  Khieu  Samphan  and  the  insurgents  remained  inside 
Cambodia. 

For  Sihanouk  and  the  KCP,  this  was  an  extremely  useful  mar- 
riage of  convenience.  Peasants,  motivated  by  loyalty  to  the  monar- 
chy, rallied  to  the  FUNK  cause.  The  appeal  of  the  Sihanouk-KCP 
coalition  grew  immensely  after  October  9,  1970,  when  Lon  Nol 
abolished  the  monarchy  and  redesignated  Cambodia  as  the  Khmer 
Republic.  The  concept  of  a  republic  was  not  popular  with  most 
villagers,  who  had  grown  up  with  the  idea  that  something  was  seri- 
ously awry  in  a  Cambodia  without  a  monarch. 

GRUNK  operated  on  two  tiers.  Sihanouk  and  his  loyalists  re- 
mained in  Beijing,  although  the  prince  did  make  a  visit  to  the  "liber- 
ated areas"  of  Cambodia,  including  Angkor  Wat,  in  March  1973. 
The  KCP  commanded  the  insurgency  within  the  country.  Gradu- 
ally, the  prince  was  deprived  of  everything  but  a  passive,  figure- 
head role  in  the  coalition.  The  KCP  told  people  inside  Cambodia 
that  expressions  of  support  for  Sihanouk  would  result  in  their  liq- 
uidation, and  when  the  prince  appeared  in  public  overseas  to  pub- 
licize the  GRUNK  cause,  he  was  treated  with  almost  open  contempt 
by  Ieng  Sary  and  Khieu  Samphan.  In  June  1973,  the  prince  told 
the  Italian  journalist  Oriana  Fallaci  that  when  "they  [the  Khmer 
Rouge]  no  longer  need  me,  they  will  spit  me  out  like  a  cherry  pit! " 
By  the  end  of  that  year,  Sihanouk  loyalists  had  been  purged  from 
all  of  GRUNK 's  ministries. 

The  Widening  War 

The  1970  coup  d'etat  that  toppled  Sihanouk  dragged  Cambo- 
dia into  the  vortex  of  a  wider  war.  The  escalating  conflict  pitted 
government  troops,  now  renamed  the  Khmer  National  Armed 
Forces  (Forces  Armees  Nationales  Khmeres — FANK — see  Appen- 
dix B),  initially  against  the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet  Cong, 
and  subsequently  against  the  old  RAK,  now  revitalized  and  re- 
named the  Cambodian  People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces 
(CPNLAF— see  Appendix  B). 

As  combat  operations  quickly  disclosed,  the  two  sides  were  mis- 
matched. The  inequality  lay  not  so  much  in  sheer  numbers.  Thou- 
sands of  young  urban  Cambodians  flocked  to  join  FANK  in  the 
months  following  the  coup  and,  throughout  its  five-year  life,  the 
republican  government  forces  held  a  numerical  edge  over  their  op- 
ponents, the  padded  payrolls  and  the  phantom  units  reported  in 
the  press  notwithstanding.  Instead,  FANK  was  outclassed  in  train- 
ing and  leadership.  With  the  surge  of  recruits,  the  government  forces 
expanded  beyond  their  capacity  to  absorb  the  new  inductees.  Later, 


44 


Historical  Setting 


given  the  press  of  tactical  operations  and  the  need  to  replace  com- 
bat casualties,  there  was  insufficient  time  to  impart  needed  skills 
to  individuals  or  to  units,  and  lack  of  training  remained  the  bane 
of  FANK's  existence  until  its  collapse.  While  individual  soldiers 
and  some  government  units  fought  bravely,  their  leaders — with 
notable  exceptions — were  both  corrupt  and  incompetent.  Arrayed 
against  an  armed  force  of  such  limited  capability  was  arguably  the 
best  light  infantry  in  the  world  at  the  time — the  North  Vietnamese 
and  the  Viet  Cong.  And  when  these  forces  were  supplanted,  it  was 
by  the  tough,  rigidly  indoctrinated  peasant  army  of  the  CPNLAF 
with  its  core  of  Khmer  Rouge  leaders. 

With  the  fall  of  Sihanouk,  the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet 
Cong  became  alarmed  at  the  prospect  of  a  pro- Western  regime  that 
might  allow  the  United  States  to  establish  a  military  presence  on 
their  western  flank.  To  prevent  this  from  happening,  they  began 
transferring  their  military  installations  away  from  the  border  area 
to  locations  deeper  within  Cambodian  territory.  A  new  command 
center  was  established  at  the  city  of  Kracheh  (Kratie).  On  April 
29,  1970,  South  Vietnamese  and  United  States  units  unleashed  a 
multi-pronged  offensive  into  Cambodia  to  destroy  the  Central  Office 
for  South  Vietnam  (COSVN),  the  headquarters  for  North  Viet- 
namese and  Viet  Cong  combat  operations  in  South  Vietnam.  Ex- 
tensive logistical  installations  and  large  amounts  of  supplies  were 
found  and  destroyed,  but  as  reporting  from  the  United  States 
MACV  subsequently  disclosed,  still  larger  amounts  of  material 
already  had  been  moved  deeper  into  Cambodia. 

The  North  Vietnamese  army  turned  on  the  republican  govern- 
ment forces,  and  by  June  1970,  three  months  after  the  coup,  they 
and  the  CPNLAF  had  swept  FANK  from  the  entire  northeastern 
third  of  the  country.  After  defeating  the  government  forces,  they 
turned  newly  won  territories  over  to  the  local  insurgents.  The 
Khmer  Rouge  also  established  "liberated  areas"  in  the  south  and 
the  southwestern  parts  of  the  country,  where  they  operated  indepen- 
dendy  of  the  Vietnamese.  The  KCP's  debt  to  the  North  Vietnamese 
after  March  1970  was  one  that  Pol  Pot  was  loath  to  acknowledge; 
however,  it  is  clear  that  without  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong 
assistance,  the  revolutionary  struggle  would  have  dragged  on  much 
longer  than  it  did. 

United  States  bombing  of  enemy  troop  dispositions  in 
Cambodia — particularly  in  the  summer  of  1973,  when  intense  aerial 
bombardment  (known  as  Arclight)  was  used  to  halt  a  Khmer  Rouge 
assault  on  Phnom  Penh — bought  time  for  the  Lon  Nol  government, 
but  did  not  stem  the  momentum  of  the  communist  forces.  United 
States  official  documents  give  a  figure  of  79,959  sorties  by  B-52 


45 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

and  F— 1 1 1  aircraft  over  the  country,  during  which  a  total  of  539, 129 
tons  of  ordnance  were  dropped,  about  350  percent  of  the  tonnage 
(153,000  tons)  dropped  on  Japan  during  World  War  II.  Many  of 
the  bombs  that  fell  in  Cambodia  struck  relatively  uninhabited 
mountain  or  forest  regions;  however,  as  declassified  United  States 
Air  Force  maps  show,  others  fell  over  some  of  the  most  densely 
inhabited  areas  of  the  country,  such  as  Siemreab  Province,  Kam- 
pong  Chhnang  Province,  and  the  countryside  around  Phnom  Penh. 
Deaths  from  the  bombing  are  extremely  difficult  to  estimate,  and 
figures  range  from  a  low  of  30,000  to  a  high  of  500,000.  Whatever 
the  real  extent  of  the  casualties,  the  Arclight  missions  over  Cam- 
bodia, which  were  halted  in  August  15,  1973,  by  the  United  States 
Congress,  delivered  shattering  blows  to  the  structure  of  life  in  many 
of  the  country's  villages,  and,  according  to  some  critics,  drove  the 
Cambodian  people  into  the  arms  of  the  Khmer  Rouge. 

The  bombing  was  by  far  the  most  controversial  aspect  of  the 
United  States  presence  in  Cambodia.  In  his  book  Sideshow,  William 
Shawcross  provides  a  vivid  image  of  the  hellish  conditions,  espe- 
cially in  the  months  of  January  to  August  1973,  when  the  Arclight 
sorties  were  most  intense.  He  claims  that  the  bombing  contributed 
to  the  forging  of  a  brutal  and  singlemindedly  fanatical  Khmer  Rouge 
movement.  However,  his  arguments  have  been  disputed  by  several 
United  States  officials — including  the  former  ambassador  to  Cam- 
bodia, Emory  C.  Swank,  and  the  former  Air  Force  commander 
in  Thailand,  General  John  W.  Vogt — in  an  appendix  to  the  second 
volume  of  the  memoirs  of  then  Secretary  of  State,  Henry  Kissinger. 

From  the  Khmer  Rouge  perspective,  however,  the  severity  of 
the  bombings  was  matched  by  the  treachery  of  the  North  Viet- 
namese. The  Cambodian  communists  had  refused  to  take  part  in 
the  Paris  peace  talks.  When  North  Vietnam  and  the  United  States 
signed  the  Paris  Peace  Accords  on  January  27,  1973,  bombing  mis- 
sions over  Vietnam  and  Laos  were  terminated.  The  fighter  bom- 
bers and  other  aircraft  thus  released  were  diverted  to  strike  Khmer 
Rouge  positions  in  Cambodia. 

Early  Khmer  Rouge  Atrocities 

One  of  the  earliest  accounts  of  life  under  the  Khmer  Rouge  was 
written  in  1973  by  a  school  administrator,  Ith  Sarin,  who  had  joined 
the  movement  after  becoming  disillusioned  with  Lon  Nol  and  the 
Khmer  Republic,  then  rose  to  the  status  of  candidate  member  of 
the  KCP,  but  left  the  party  and  returned  to  Phnom  Penh  after  nine 
months  in  the  underground.  His  work,  Regrets  for  the  Khmer  Soul 
(in  Khmer,  Sranaoh  Pralung  Khmer),  revealed  the  secrecy  with  which 
the  Khmer  Rouge  concealed  the  existence  of  the  communist  party, 


46 


Historical  Setting 


which  they  referred  to  by  the  sinister  term  Angkar  Loeu  (High 
Organization),  or  simply,  Angkar.  The  KCP  Central  Committee 
was  referred  to  as  the  Kena  Mocchhim  (or  Committee  Machine, 
mocchhim  being  derived  from  the  Western  term,  "machine"). 

Territories  under  Angkar  control  were  well  organized.  Ith  Sarin 
described  a  five-level  hierarchy  of  Angkar-controlled  bodies  reaching 
from  the  six  areas,  or  phumphaek  (see  Glossary)  into  which  the  coun- 
try was  divided  down  to  the  hamlet,  or  phum  level.  The  Angkar 
imposed  a  grim  regime  in  which  hatred  for  Lon  Nol,  the  Ameri- 
cans, and,  at  times,  the  North  Vietnamese  "allies"  was  assidu- 
ously cultivated.  Expressions  of  support  for  Sihanouk  were  firmly 
discouraged  and  people  were  encouraged  to  spy  on  each  other.  Dis- 
cipline was  unremittingly  harsh.  Ith  Sarin  concluded  from  his 
experience  that  the  great  majority  of  the  people  did  not  like  the 
Angkar  and  the  collective  way  of  life  it  imposed,  that  they  despaired 
that  Sihanouk  would  ever  return  to  power,  and  that  they  would 
support  the  Khmer  Republic  if  it  carried  out  genuine  reforms. 
Oddly,  Lon  Nol's  security  forces  banned  the  book  for  a  time  on 
the  grounds  that  it  was  "pro-communist."  Although  this  was  not 
true,  it  did  provide  a  foretaste  of  what  the  entire  Cambodian  popu- 
lation would  endure  after  April  1975. 

Disturbing  stories  of  Khmer  Rouge  atrocities  began  to  surface 
as  the  communists  prepared  to  deal  the  coup  de  grace  to  the  Khmer 
Republic.  In  March  1974,  they  captured  the  old  capital  city  of 
Odongk  north  of  Phnom  Penh,  destroyed  it,  dispersed  its  20,000 
inhabitants  into  the  countryside,  and  executed  the  teachers  and  civil 
servants.  The  same  year,  they  brutally  murdered  sixty  people,  in- 
cluding women  and  children,  in  a  small  village  called  Sar  Sarsdam 
in  Siemreab  Province.  A  similar  incident  was  reported  at  Ang  Snuol, 
a  town  west  of  the  capital.  Other  instances  of  what  one  observer, 
Donald  Kirk,  described  as  a  "sweeping,  almost  cosmic  policy"  of 
^discriminate  terror,  were  recounted  by  refugees  who  fled  to  Phnom 
Penh  or  across  the  Thai  border.  Kirk  contrasted  this  behavior  with 
the  Viet  Cong's  use  of  "a  modicum  of  care  and  precision"  in  ap- 
plying terror  in  South  Vietnam  (for  instance,  assassination  of  land- 
lords or  of  South  Vietnamese  officials).  Atrocity  stories,  however, 
were  considered  to  be  anticommunist  propaganda  by  many,  if  not 
most,  Western  journalists  and  other  observers;  nevertheless,  Phnom 
Penh's  population  swelled  to  as  many  as  2.5  million  people  as  terri- 
fied refugees  sought  to  escape  not  only  the  United  States  bombing 
and  the  ground  fighting,  but  the  harshness  of  life  under  the  Angkar. 

The  Fall  of  Phnom  Penh 

The  Khmer  Rouge  initiated  their  dry- season  offensive  to  cap- 
ture the  beleaguered  Cambodian  capital  on  January  1,  1975.  Their 


47 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

troops  controlled  the  banks  of  the  Mekong  River,  and  they  were 
able  to  rig  ingenious  mines  to  sink  convoys  bringing  relief  supplies 
of  food,  fuel,  and  ammunition  to  the  slowly  starving  city.  After 
the  river  was  effectively  blocked  in  early  February,  the  United  States 
began  airlifts  of  supplies.  This  was  extremely  risky  because  of 
Khmer  Rouge  rockets.  The  communists  also  fired  rockets  and  shells 
into  the  city,  causing  many  civilian  deaths.  Doomed  units  of  repub- 
lican soldiers  dug  in  around  the  capital;  many  of  them  had  run 
out  of  ammunition,  and  they  were  overrun  as  the  Khmer  Rouge 
advanced.  American  observers,  who  generally  had  little  esteem  for 
FANK  officer  corps,  were  impressed  by  the  determination  of  the 
Khmer  enlisted  men  to  fight  to  the  end. 

On  April  1 ,  1975,  President  Lon  Nol  resigned  and  left  the  coun- 
try. His  exit  was  prompted  by  fear  of  certain  death  if  he  fell  into 
Khmer  Rouge  hands.  The  communists  had  included  him  among 
"seven  traitors"  who  were  marked  for  execution.  (The  others  were 
non-communist,  nationalist  leaders  Sirik  Matak,  Son  Ngoc  Thanh, 
In  Tarn,  Prime  Minister  Long  Boret,  Cheng  Heng,  who  became 
head  of  state  after  Sihanouk's  ouster,  and  Sosthene  Fernandez,  the 
FANK  commander  in  chief) .  Saukham  Khoy  became  acting  presi- 
dent of  a  government  that  had  less  than  three  weeks  to  live.  Last- 
minute  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  United  States  to  arrange  a  peace 
agreement  involving  Sihanouk  ended  in  failure.  On  April  12, 
United  States  embassy  personnel  were  evacuated  by  helicopter.  The 
ambassador,  John  Gunther  Dean,  invited  high  officials  of  the 
Khmer  Republic  to  join  them.  But  Sirik  Matak,  Long  Boret,  Lon 
Non  (Lon  Nol's  brother),  and  most  members  of  Lon  Nol's  cabi- 
net declined.  They  chose  to  share  the  fate  of  their  people.  All  were 
executed  soon  after  Khmer  Rouge  units  entered  Phnom  Penh  on 
April  17,  1975. 

Democratic  Kampuchea,  1975-78 

Mid-April  is  the  beginning  of  the  Cambodian  new  year,  the 
year's  most  festive  celebration.  For  many  Cambodians,  the  fall  of 
Phnom  Penh  promised  both  a  new  year  and  a  new  era  of  peace. 
The  people  of  Phnom  Penh  and  of  other  cities  waited  in  anticipa- 
tion for  the  appearance  of  their  new  rulers.  The  troops  who  en- 
tered the  capital  on  April  1 7  were  mostly  grim-faced  youths  clad 
in  black  with  the  checkered  scarves  that  had  become  the  uniform 
of  the  movement.  Their  unsmiling  demeanor  quickly  dispelled 
popular  enthusiasm.  People  began  to  realize  that,  in  the  eyes  of 
the  victors,  the  war  was  not  over;  it  was  just  beginning,  and  the 
people  were  the  new  enemy.  According  to  Father  Ponchaud,  as 


48 


Historical  Setting 


the  sense  of  consternation  and  dread  grew,  it  seemed  that  "a  slab 
of  lead  had  fallen  on  the  city." 

Evacuation  of  Phnom  Penh  began  immediately. The  black-clad 
troops  told  the  residents  that  they  would  move  only  about  "two 
or  three  kilometers"  outside  the  city  and  would  return  in  "two 
or  three  days. ' '  Other  witnesses  report  being  told  that  the  evacua- 
tion was  because  of  the  threat  of  an  American  bombing  and  that 
they  did  not  have  to  lock  their  houses  since  the  Khmer  Rouge  would 
"take  care  of  everything"  until  they  returned.  The  roads  out  of 
the  city  were  clogged  with  evacuees.  Phnom  Penh — the  popula- 
tion of  which,  numbering  2.5  million  people,  included  as  many 
as  1 . 5  million  wartime  refugees  living  with  relatives  or  in  shanty- 
towns  around  the  urban  center — was  soon  emptied.  Similar  evacu- 
ations occurred  at  Batdambang,  Kampong  Cham,  Siemreab, 
Kampong  Thum,  and  the  country's  other  towns  and  cities. 

There  were  no  exceptions  to  the  evacuation.  Even  Phnom  Penh's 
hospitals  were  emptied  of  their  patients.  The  Khmer  Rouge  pro- 
vided transportation  for  some  of  the  aged  and  the  disabled,  and 
they  set  up  stockpiles  of  food  outside  the  city  for  the  refugees; 
however,  the  supplies  were  inadequate  to  sustain  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  people  on  the  road.  Even  seriously  injured  hospital 
patients,  many  without  any  means  of  conveyance,  were  summarily 
forced  to  leave  regardless  of  their  condition.  According  to  Khieu 
Samphan,  the  evacuation  of  Phnom  Penh's  famished  and  disease- 
racked  population  resulted  in  2,000  to  3,000  deaths,  which  is  prob- 
ably an  understatement.  The  foreign  community,  about  800  per- 
sons, was  quarantined  in  the  French  embassy  compound,  and  by 
the  end  of  the  month  the  foreigners  were  taken  by  truck  to  the  Thai 
border.  Khmer  women  who  were  married  to  foreigners  were  allowed 
to  accompany  their  husbands,  but  Khmer  men  were  not  permit- 
ted to  leave  with  their  foreign  wives. 

Promises  that  urban  residents  forced  into  the  countryside  would 
be  allowed  to  return  home  were  never  kept.  Instead,  the  town 
dwellers,  regarded  as  politically  unreliable  "new  people,"  were  put 
to  work  in  forced  labor  battalions  throughout  the  country.  One  refu- 
gee, for  example,  recalled  that  her  family  was  sent  to  the  region 
around  Moung  Roessei  in  Batdambang  Province  to  clear  land  and 
grow  rice. 

Aside  from  the  alleged  threat  of  United  States  air  strikes,  the 
Khmer  Rouge  justified  the  evacuations  in  terms  of  the  impossibil- 
ity of  transporting  sufficient  food  to  feed  an  urban  population  of 
between  2  and  3  million  people.  Lack  of  adequate  transportation 
meant  that,  instead  of  bringing  food  to  the  people  (tons  of  it  lay 
in  storehouses  in  the  port  city  of  Kampong  Saom,  according  to 


49 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Father  Ponchaud),  the  people  had  to  be  brought  to  (and  had  to 
grow)  the  food.  But  there  were  other,  more  basic  motivations.  The 
Khmer  Rouge  was  determined  to  turn  the  country  into  a  nation 
of  peasants  in  which  the  corruption  and  parasitism  of  city  life  would 
be  completely  uprooted.  In  addition,  Pol  Pot  wanted  to  break  up 
the  "enemy  spy  organizations"  that  allegedly  were  based  in  the 
urban  areas.  Finally,  it  seems  that  Pol  Pot  and  his  hard-line  asso- 
ciates on  the  KCP  Political  Bureau  used  the  forced  evacuations 
to  gain  control  of  the  city's  population  and  to  weaken  the  position 
of  their  factional  rivals  within  the  communist  party.  Had  Phnom 
Penh  been  controlled  by  one  of  the  more  moderate  communist  lead- 
ers, the  exodus  might  not  have  taken  place  when  it  did. 

The  regime  immediately  seized  and  executed  as  many  Khmer 
Republic  civil  servants,  police,  and  military  officers  as  it  could  find. 
Evacuees  who  had  been  associated  with  the  Lon  Nol  government 
had  to  feign  peasant  or  working-class  backgrounds  to  avoid  cer- 
tain death.  One  refugee  wrote  that  she  and  her  family,  who  came 
from  the  middle  or  upper  middle  class,  dyed  their  city  clothes  black 
(like  those  of  peasants)  to  help  them  escape  detection.  In  one  inci- 
dent, soon  after  the  fall  of  Phnom  Penh,  more  than  300  former 
military  officers  were  told  to  put  on  their  dress  uniforms  in  order 
to  "meet  Sihanouk."  Instead,  they  were  taken  to  a  jungle  clear- 
ing in  Batdambang  Province  and  were  machine-gunned  or  clubbed 
to  death.  The  wives  and  the  children  of  people  with  government 
backgrounds  were  also  killed,  apparently  to  eliminate  people  who 
might  harbor  feelings  of  revenge  toward  the  regime. 

According  to  refugee  accounts,  the  rate  of  killing  had  decreased 
by  the  summer  of  1975.  Some  civil  servants  and  educated  people 
were  sent  to  "reeducation  centers"  and,  if  they  showed  "genuine" 
contrition,  were  put  in  forced  labor  battalions.  There  were  new 
killings,  however,  in  late  1975  and  in  early  1976.  Many  of  the  vic- 
tims were  educated  people,  such  as  schoolteachers.  During  the  entire 
Democratic  Kampuchea  period  from  1975  to  1978,  cadres  exer- 
cised the  power  of  life  and  death,  especially  over  "new  people," 
for  whom  threats  of  being  struck  with  a  pickax  or  an  ax  handle 
and  of  being  "put  in  a  plastic  bag"  were  a  part  of  everyday  life. 
In  order  to  save  ammunition,  firearms  were  rarely  used.  People 
were  murdered  for  not  working  hard,  for  complaining  about  liv- 
ing conditions,  for  collecting  or  stealing  food  for  their  own  use, 
for  wearing  jewelry,  for  having  sexual  relations,  for  grieving  over 
the  loss  of  relatives  or  friends,  or  for  expressing  religious  sentiments. 
Sick  people  were  often  eliminated.  The  killings  often,  if  not  usually, 
occurred  without  any  kind  of  trial,  and  they  continued,  uninter- 
rupted, until  the  1979  Vietnamese  invasion.  People  who  displeased 


50 


Historical  Setting 


the  Angkar,  or  its  local  representatives,  customarily  received  a  for- 
mal warning  (kosang)  to  mend  their  ways.  More  than  two  warn- 
ings resulted  in  being  given  an  "invitation,"  which  meant  certain 
death.  In  1977  and  1978  the  violence  reached  a  climax  as  the  revolu- 
tionaries turned  against  each  other  in  bloody  purges. 

Revolutionary  Terror 

Estimates  of  the  number  of  people  who  perished  under  the  Khmer 
Rouge  vary  tremendously.  A  figure  of  three  million  deaths  between 
1975  and  1979  was  given  by  the  Vietnamese-sponsored  Phnom 
Penh  regime,  the  PRK.  Father  Ponchaud  suggested  2.3  million. 
Amnesty  International  estimated  1 .4  million  dead;  the  United  States 
Department  of  State,  1.2  million.  Khieu  Samphan  and  Pol  Pot, 
who  could  be  expected  to  give  underestimations,  cited  figures  of 
1  million  and  800,000,  respectively.  In  1962  the  year  of  the  last 
census  taken  before  Cambodia  was  engulfed  by  war,  the  popula- 
tion of  the  country  was  cited  at  5.7  million.  Ten  years  later,  in 
1972,  the  population  was  estimated  to  have  reached  7.1  million. 
Using  Pol  Pot's  rather  modest  figure  of  800,000  deaths,  about  11 
percent  of  the  population  would  have  died  from  unnatural  causes 
between  1975  and  1978.  By  contrast,  Amnesty  International's  figure 
would  yield  a  death  rate  of  almost  20  percent  of  the  population; 
Father  Ponchaud' s,  of  approximately  32  percent.  The  revolution 
was  easily,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  country's  population, 
the  bloodiest  in  modern  Asian  history. 

As  is  evident  from  the  accounts  of  refugees,  the  greatest  causes 
of  death  were  hunger,  disease,  and  exposure.  Many  city  people 
could  not  survive  the  rigors  of  life  in  the  countryside,  the  forced 
marches,  and  the  hard  physical  labor.  People  died  from  the  bites 
of  venomous  snakes,  drowned  in  flooded  areas  during  the  rainy 
season,  and  were  killed  by  wild  beasts  in  jungle  areas.  Many  fell 
victim  to  malaria.  Others  died  in  the  fighting  between  Vietnam 
and  Cambodia  in  1978  and  in  1979.  Nonetheless,  executions  ac- 
counted for  hundreds  of  thousands  of  victims  and  perhaps  for  as 
many  as  1  million.  Western  journalists  have  been  shown  "killing 
fields"  containing  as  many  as  16,000  bodies. 

Society  under  the  Angkar 

The  social  transformation  wrought  by  the  Khmer  Rouge,  first, 
in  the  areas  that  they  occupied  during  the  war  with  Lon  Nol  and, 
then,  in  varying  degrees,  throughout  the  country,  was  far  more 
radical  than  anything  attempted  by  the  Russian,  Chinese,  or  Viet- 
namese revolutions.  According  to  Pol  Pot,  five  classes  existed  in 
prerevolutionary  Cambodia — peasants,   workers,  bourgeoisie, 


51 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

capitalists,  and  feudalists.  Postrevolutionary  society,  as  defined  by 
the  1976  Constitution  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  consisted  of 
workers,  peasants,  and  "all  other  Kampuchean  working  people." 
No  allowance  was  made  for  a  transitional  stage  such  as  China's 
"New  Democracy"  in  which  "patriotic"  landlord  or  bourgeois  ele- 
ments were  permitted  to  play  a  role  in  socialist  construction.  Siha- 
nouk writes  that  in  1975  he,  Khieu  Samphan,  and  Khieu  Thirith 
went  to  visit  Zhou  Enlai,  who  was  gravely  ill.  Zhou  warned  them 
not  to  attempt  to  achieve  communism  suddenly  by  one  ' '  great  leap 
forward"  without  intermediate  steps,  as  China  had  done  with  dis- 
astrous results  in  the  late  1950s.  Khieu  Samphan  and  Khieu  Thirith 
"just  smiled  an  incredulous  and  superior  smile."  Khieu  Samphan 
and  Son  Sen  later  boasted  to  Sihanouk  that  "we  will  be  the  first 
nation  to  create  a  completely  communist  society  without  wasting 
time  on  intermediate  steps." 

Although  conditions  varied  from  region  to  region,  a  situation 
that  was,  in  part,  a  reflection  of  factional  divisions  that  still  existed 
within  the  KCP  during  the  1970s,  the  testimony  of  refugees  reveals 
that  the  most  salient  social  division  was  between  the  politically  sus- 
pect "new  people,"  those  driven  out  of  the  towns  after  the  com- 
munist victory,  and  the  more  reliable  "old  people,"  the  poor  and 
lower  middle-class  peasants  who  had  remained  in  the  countryside. 
Despite  the  ideological  commitment  to  radical  equality,  KCP  mem- 
bers and  the  armed  forces  constituted  a  clearly  recognizable  elite. 
The  working  class  was  a  negligible  factor  because  of  the  evacua- 
tion of  the  urban  areas  and  the  idling  of  most  of  the  country's  few 
factories.  The  one  important  working  class  group  in  prerevolution- 
ary  Cambodia — laborers  on  large  rubber  plantations — traditionally 
had  consisted  mostly  of  Vietnamese  emigrants  and  thus  was  polit- 
ically suspect. 

The  number  of  people,  including  refugees,  living  in  the  urban 
areas,  on  the  eve  of  the  communist  victory  probably  was  some- 
what more  than  3  million,  in  a  wartime  population  that  has  been 
estimated  at  between  5.7  and  7.3  million.  As  mentioned,  despite 
their  rural  origins,  the  refugees  were  considered  "new  people" — 
that  is,  people  unsympathetic  to  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Some 
doubtless  passed  as  "old  people"  after  returning  to  their  native 
villages,  but  the  Khmer  Rouge  seem  to  have  been  extremely  vigilant 
in  recording  and  keeping  track  of  the  movements  of  families  and 
of  individuals.  The  lowest  unit  of  social  control,  the  krom  (group), 
consisted  of  ten  to  fifteen  nuclear  families  whose  activities  were  close- 
ly supervised  by  a  three-person  committee.  The  committee  chair- 
man was  selected  by  the  KCP.  This  grass  roots  leadership  was 
required  to  note  the  social  origin  of  each  family  under  its  jurisdiction 


52 


Historical  Setting 


and  to  report  it  to  persons  higher  up  in  the  Angkar  hierarchy.  The 
number  of  "new  people"  may  initially  have  been  as  high  as  2.5 
million. 

The  "new  people"  were  treated  as  slave  laborers.  They  were 
constantly  moved,  were  forced  to  do  the  hardest  physical  labor, 
and  worked  in  the  most  inhospitable,  fever-ridden  parts  of  the  coun- 
try, such  as  forests,  upland  areas,  and  swamps.  "New  people"  were 
segregated  from  "old  people,"  enjoyed  little  or  no  privacy,  and 
received  the  smallest  rice  rations.  When  the  country  experienced 
food  shortages  in  1977,  the  "new  people"  suffered  the  most.  The 
medical  care  available  to  them  was  primitive  or  nonexistent.  Fami- 
lies often  were  separated  because  people  were  divided  into  work 
brigades  according  to  age  and  sex  and  sent  to  different  parts  of 
the  country.  "New  people"  were  subjected  to  unending  political 
indoctrination  and  could  be  executed  without  trial.  The  creation 
of  what  amounted  to  a  slave  class  suggests  continuity  between  the 
Cambodian  revolution  and  the  country's  ancient  history.  Like  the 
Khmer  Rouge  leadership,  the  god-kings  of  Angkor  had  commanded 
armies  of  slaves.  Pol  Pot  boasted  in  1977  that  "if  our  people  can 
make  Angkor,  they  can  make  anything." 

The  situation  of  the  "old  people"  under  Khmer  Rouge  rule  was 
more  ambiguous.  Refugee  interviews  reveal  cases  in  which  villagers 
were  treated  as  harshly  as  the  "new  people,"  enduring  forced  labor, 
indoctrination,  the  separation  of  children  from  parents,  and  exe- 
cutions; however,  they  were  generally  allowed  to  remain  in  their 
native  villages.  Because  of  their  age-old  resentment  of  the  urban 
and  rural  elites,  many  of  the  poorest  peasants  probably  were  sym- 
pathetic to  Khmer  Rouge  goals.  In  the  early  1980s,  visiting  Western 
journalists  found  that  the  issue  of  peasant  support  for  the  Khmer 
Rouge  was  an  extremely  sensitive  subject  that  officials  of  the  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of  Kampuchea  had  little  inclination  to  discuss. 

On  the  basis  of  interviews  with  refugees  from  different  parts  of 
the  country  as  well  as  other  sources,  Vickery  has  argued  that  there 
was  a  wide  regional  variation  in  the  severity  of  policies  adopted 
by  local  Khmer  Rouge  authorities.  Ideology  had  something  to  do 
with  the  differences,  but  the  availability  of  food,  the  level  of  local 
development,  and  the  personal  qualities  of  cadres  also  were  im- 
portant factors.  The  greatest  number  of  deaths  occurred  in  undevel- 
oped districts,  where  "new  people"  were  sent  to  clear  land.  While 
conditions  were  hellish  in  some  localities,  they  apparentiy  were  toler- 
able in  others.  Vickery  describes  the  Eastern  Zone,  which  was  domi- 
nated by  pro- Vietnamese  cadres,  as  one  in  which  the  extreme 
policies  of  the  Pol  Pot  leadership  were  not  adopted  (at  least  until 
1978,  when  the  Eastern  leadership  was  liquidated  in  a  bloody 


53 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

purge).  Executions  were  few,  "old  people"  and  "new  people"  were 
treated  largely  the  same,  and  food  was  made  available  to  the  en- 
tire population.  Although  the  Southwestern  Zone  was  an  original 
center  of  power  of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  and  cadres  administered  it 
with  strict  discipline,  random  executions  were  relatively  rare,  and 
"new  people"  were  not  persecuted  if  they  had  a  cooperative  atti- 
tude. In  the  Western  Zone  and  in  the  Northwestern  Zone,  condi- 
tions were  harsh.  Starvation  was  widespread  in  the  latter  zone 
because  cadres  sent  rice  to  Phnom  Penh  rather  than  distributed 
it  to  the  local  population.  In  the  Northern  Zone  and  in  the  Cen- 
tral Zone,  there  seem  to  have  been  more  executions  than  there  were 
victims  of  starvation.  Little  reliable  information  emerged  on  con- 
ditions in  the  Northeastern  Zone,  one  of  the  most  isolated  parts 
of  Cambodia  (see  fig.  3). 

On  the  surface,  society  in  Democratic  Kampuchea  was  strictly 
egalitarian.  The  Khmer  language,  like  many  in  Southeast  Asia, 
has  a  complex  system  of  usages  to  define  speakers'  rank  and  social 
status.  These  usages  were  abandoned.  People  were  encouraged  to 
call  each  other  "friend,"  or  "comrade"  (in  Khmer,  mit  or  met), 
and  to  avoid  traditional  signs  of  deference  such  as  bowing  or  fold- 
ing the  hands  in  salutation.  Language  was  transformed  in  other 
ways.  The  Khmer  Rouge  invented  new  terms.  People  were  told 
they  must  "forge"  {lot  dam)  a  new  revolutionary  character,  that 
they  were  the  "instruments"  (opokar)  of  the  Angkar,  and  that  nostal- 
gia for  prerevolutionary  times  (cchoeu  sttak  aram,  or  "memory  sick- 
ness") could  result  in  their  receiving  Angkar's  "invitation." 

As  in  other  revolutionary  states,  however,  some  people  were 
"more  equal"  than  others.  Members  and  candidate  members  of 
the  KCP,  local-level  leaders  of  poor  peasant  background  who  col- 
laborated with  the  Angkar,  and  members  of  the  armed  forces  had 
a  higher  standard  of  living  than  the  rest  of  the  population.  Refu- 
gees agree  that,  even  during  times  of  severe  food  shortage,  mem- 
bers of  the  grass-roots  elite  had  adequate,  if  not  luxurious,  supplies 
of  food.  One  refugee  wrote  that  "pretty  new  bamboo  houses"  were 
built  for  Khmer  Rouge  cadres  along  the  river  in  Phnom  Penh. 
According  to  Craig  Etcheson,  an  authority  on  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea, members  of  the  revolutionary  army  lived  in  self-contained 
colonies,  and  they  had  a  "distinctive  warrior-caste  ethos."  Armed 
forces  units  personally  loyal  to  Pol  Pot,  known  as  the  "Uncondi- 
tional Divisions,"  were  a  privileged  group  within  the  military. 

Given  the  severity  of  their  revolutionary  ideology,  it  is  surpris- 
ing that  the  highest  ranks  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  leadership  exhib- 
ited a  talent  for  cronyism  that  matched  that  of  the  Sihanouk-era 
elite.  Pol  Pot's  wife,  Khieu  Ponnary,  was  head  of  the  Association 


54 


Historical  Setting 


of  Democratic  Khmer  Women  and  her  younger  sister,  Khieu 
Thirith,  served  as  minister  of  social  action.  These  two  women  are 
considered  among  the  half-dozen  most  powerful  personalities  in 
Democratic  Kampuchea.  Son  Sen's  wife,  Yun  Yat,  served  as 
minister  for  culture,  education  and  learning.  Several  of  Pol  Pot's 
nephews  and  nieces  were  given  jobs  in  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs.  One  of  Ieng  Sary's  daughters  was  appointed  head  of  the 
Calmette  Hospital  although  she  had  not  graduated  from  secondary 
school.  A  niece  of  Ieng  Sary  was  given  a  job  as  English  translator 
for  Radio  Phnom  Penh  although  her  fluency  in  the  language  was 
extremely  limited.  Family  ties  were  important,  both  because  of  the 
culture  and  because  of  the  leadership's  intense  secretiveness  and 
distrust  of  outsiders,  especially  of  pro- Vietnamese  communists. 
Greed  was  also  a  motive.  Different  ministries,  such  as  the  Minis- 
try of  Foreign  Affairs  and  the  Ministry  of  Industry,  were  controlled 
and  exploited  by  powerful  Khmer  Rouge  families.  Administering 
the  diplomatic  corps  was  regarded  as  an  especially  profitable 
fiefdom. 

Religious  and  Minority  Communities 

Article  20  of  the  1976  Constitution  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
guaranteed  religious  freedom,  but  it  also  declared  that  "all  reac- 
tionary religions  that  are  detrimental  to  Democratic  Kampuchea 
and  the  Kampuchean  People  are  strictly  forbidden."  About  85  per- 
cent of  the  population  follows  the  Theravada  school  of  Buddhism 
(see  Buddhism,  ch.  2).  Before  1975  the  Khmer  Rouge  tolerated 
the  activities  of  the  community  of  Buddhist  monks,  or  sangha  (see 
Glossary),  in  the  liberated  areas  in  order  to  win  popular  support. 
This  changed  abruptly  after  the  fall  of  Phnom  Penh.  The  coun- 
try's 40,000  to  60,000  Buddhist  monks,  regarded  by  the  regime 
as  social  parasites,  were  defrocked  and  forced  into  labor  brigades. 
Many  monks  were  executed;  temples  and  pagodas  were  destroyed 
or  turned  into  storehouses  or  jails.  Images  of  the  Buddha  were 
defaced  and  dumped  into  rivers  and  lakes.  People  who  were  dis- 
covered praying  or  expressing  religious  sentiments  in  other  ways 
were  often  killed.  The  Christian  and  Muslim  communities  also  were 
persecuted.  The  Roman  Catholic  cathedral  of  Phnom  Penh  was 
completely  razed.  The  Khmer  Rouge  forced  Muslims  to  eat  pork, 
which  they  regard  as  an  abomination.  Many  of  those  who  refused 
were  killed.  Christian  clergy  and  Muslim  leaders  were  executed. 

The  Khmer  Rouge's  treatment  of  minorities  seems  to  have  varied 
from  group  to  group.  The  Vietnamese  endured  the  greatest  suffer- 
ing. Tens  of  thousands  were  murdered  in  regime-organized  mas- 
sacres. Most  of  the  survivors  fled  to  Vietnam.  The  Cham,  a  Muslim 


55 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Michael  Vickery.  Cambodia:  1975-82,  Boston.  1984. 
and  Elizabeth  Becker.  Wkn  :ht  \\'cr  Was  0:-r.  New  York.  1986. 


Figure  3.  Khmer  Rouge  Administrative  Zones  for  Democratic  Kampuchea. 
1975-78 


minority  who  are  the  descendants  of  migrants  from  the  old  state 
of  Champa,  were  forced  to  adopt  the  Khmer  language  and  cus- 
toms. Their  communities,  which  traditionally  had  existed  apart 
from  Khmer  villages,  were  broken  up.  Forty  thousand  Cham  were 
killed  in  two  districts  of  Kampong  Cham  Province  alone.  Thai 
minorities  living  near  the  Thai  border  also  were  persecuted. 

Despite  the  fact  that  Chinese  and  Sino-Khmers  had  dominated 
the  Cambodian  economy  for  centuries  and  could  be  considered  ex- 
ploiters of  the  peasantry,  the  Khmer  Rouge  apparently  did  not  sin- 
gle them  out  for  harsh  treatment.  The  war  drove  most  rural  Chmese 
into  the  cities,  and  after  the  forced  evacuations  they  and  their  urban 


56 


Historical  Setting 


compatriots  were  regarded  as  "new  people."  They  shared  the  same 
hardships  as  Khmers,  however.  Phnom  Penh's  close  relationship 
with  China  was  probably  a  factor  in  the  regime's  reluctance  to  perse- 
cute them  openly. 

In  the  late  1980s,  little  was  known  of  Khmer  Rouge  policies 
toward  the  tribal  peoples  of  the  northeast,  the  Khmer  Loeu.  Pol 
Pot  established  an  insurgent  base  in  the  tribal  areas  of  Rotanokiri 
Province  in  the  early  1960s,  and  he  may  have  had  a  substantial 
Khmer  Loeu  following  (see  The  Cambodian  Left:  The  Early 
Phases,  this  ch.).  Predominately  animist  peoples  with  few  ties  to 
the  Buddhist  culture  of  the  lowland  Khmers,  the  Khmer  Loeu  had 
resented  Sihanouk's  attempts  to  "civilize"  them.  Cambodia  ex- 
pert Serge  Thion  notes  that  marriage  to  a  tribal  person  was  consi- 
dered "final  proof  of  unconditional  loyalty  to  the  party."  Khieu 
Samphan  may  have  been  married  to  a  tribal  woman. 

Education  and  Health 

Like  the  radical  exponents  of  the  Cultural  Revolution  in  China 
during  the  1960s,  the  Khmer  Rouge  regarded  traditional  educa- 
tion with  unalloyed  hostility.  After  the  fall  of  Phnom  Penh,  they 
executed  thousands  of  teachers.  Those  who  had  been  educators  prior 
to  1975  survived  by  hiding  their  identities.  Aside  from  teaching 
basic  mathematical  skills  and  literacy,  the  major  goal  of  the  new 
educational  system  was  to  instill  revolutionary  values  in  the  young. 
For  a  regime  at  war  with  most  of  Cambodia's  traditional  values, 
this  meant  that  it  was  necessary  to  create  a  gap  between  the  values 
of  the  young  and  the  values  of  the  nonrevolutionary  old. 

In  a  manner  reminiscent  of  George  Orwell's  1984,  the  regime 
recruited  children  to  spy  on  adults.  The  pliancy  of  the  younger 
generation  made  them,  in  the  Angkar's  words,  the  "dictatorial  in- 
strument of  the  party."  In  1962  the  communists  had  created  a  spe- 
cial secret  organization,  the  Alliance  of  Democratic  Khmer  Youth, 
that,  in  the  early  1970s,  changed  its  name  to  the  Alliance  of  Com- 
munist Youth  of  Kampuchea.  Pol  Pot  considered  Alliance  alumni 
as  his  most  loyal  and  reliable  supporters,  and  used  them  to  gain 
control  of  the  central  and  of  the  regional  KCP  apparatus.  The 
powerful  Khieu  Thirith,  minister  of  social  action,  was  responsible 
for  directing  the  youth  movement. 

Hardened  young  cadres,  many  little  more  than  twelve  years  of 
age,  were  enthusiastic  accomplices  in  some  of  the  regime's  worst 
atrocities.  Sihanouk,  who  was  kept  under  virtual  house  arrest  in 
Phnom  Penh  between  1976  and  1978,  wrote  in  War  and  Hope  that 
his  youthful  guards,  having  been  separated  from  their  families  and 
given  a  thorough  indoctrination,  were  encouraged  to  play  cruel 


57 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

games  involving  the  torture  of  animals.  Having  lost  parents,  sib- 
lings, and  friends  in  the  war  and  lacking  the  Buddhist  values  of 
their  elders,  the  Khmer  Rouge  youth  also  lacked  the  inhibitions 
that  would  have  dampened  their  zeal  for  revolutionary  terror. 

Health  facilities  in  the  years  1975  to  1978  were  abysmally  poor. 
Many  physicians  either  were  executed  or  were  prohibited  from  prac- 
ticing. It  appears  that  the  party  and  the  armed  forces  elite  had  access 
to  Western  medicine  and  to  a  system  of  hospitals  that  offered 
reasonable  treatment  but  ordinary  people,  especially  '  'new  peo- 
ple," were  expected  to  use  traditional  plant  and  herbal  remedies 
that  usually  were  ineffective.  Some  bartered  their  rice  rations  and 
personal  possessions  to  obtain  aspirin  and  other  simple  drugs. 

The  Economy 

In  its  general  contours,  Democratic  Kampuchea's  economic  pol- 
icy was  similar  to,  and  possibly  inspired  by,  China's  radical  Great 
Leap  Forward  that  carried  out  immediate  collectivization  of  the 
Chinese  countryside  in  1958.  During  the  early  1970s,  the  Khmer 
Rouge  established  "mutual  assistance  groups"  in  the  areas  they 
occupied.  After  1973  these  were  organized  into  "low-level  cooper- 
atives" in  which  land  and  agricultural  implements  were  lent  by 
peasants  to  the  community  but  remained  their  private  property. 
"High-level  cooperatives,"  in  which  private  property  was  abolished 
and  the  harvest  became  the  collective  property  of  the  peasants, 
appeared  in  1974.  "Communities,"  introduced  in  early  1976,  were 
a  more  advanced  form  of  high-level  cooperative  in  which  communal 
dining  was  instituted.  State-owned  farms  also  were  established. 

Far  more  than  had  the  Chinese  communists,  the  Khmer  Rouge 
relentlessly  pursued  the  ideal  of  economic  self-sufficiency,  in  their 
case  the  version  that  Khieu  Samphan  had  outlined  in  his  1959  doc- 
toral dissertation.  Extreme  measures  were  taken.  Currency  was 
abolished,  and  domestic  trade  or  commerce  could  be  conducted 
only  through  barter.  Rice,  measured  in  tins,  became  the  most  im- 
portant medium  of  exchange,  although  people  also  bartered  gold, 
jewelry,  and  other  personal  possessions.  Foreign  trade  was  almost 
completely  halted,  though  there  was  a  limited  revival  in  late  1976 
and  early  1977.  China  was  the  most  important  trading  partner, 
but  commerce  amounting  to  a  few  million  dollars  was  also  con- 
ducted with  France,  with  Britain,'  and  with  the  United  States 
through  a  Hong  Kong  intermediary. 

From  the  Khmer  Rouge  perspective,  the  country  was  free  of  for- 
eign economic  domination  for  the  first  time  in  its  2,000-year  his- 
tory. By  mobilizing  the  people  into  work  brigades  organized  in  a 
military  fashion,  the  Khmer  Rouge  hoped  to  unleash  the  masses' 


58 


Historical  Setting 


productive  forces.  There  was  an  "Angkorian"  component  to  eco- 
nomic policy.  That  ancient  kingdom  had  grown  rich  and  power- 
ful because  it  controlled  extensive  irrigation  systems  that  produced 
surpluses  of  rice.  Agriculture  in  modern  Cambodia  depended,  for 
the  most  part,  on  seasonal  rains.  By  building  a  nationwide  system 
of  irrigation  canals,  dams,  and  reservoirs,  the  leadership  believed 
it  would  be  possible  to  produce  rice  on  a  year-round  basis.  It  was 
the  ''new  people"  who  suffered  and  sacrificed  the  most  to  com- 
plete these  ambitious  projects. 

Although  the  Khmer  Rouge  implemented  an  "agriculture  first" 
policy  in  order  to  achieve  self-sufficiency,  they  were  not,  as  some 
observers  have  argued,  "back-to-nature"  primitivists.  Although 
the  1970-75  war  and  the  evacuation  of  the  cities  had  destroyed  or 
idled  most  industry,  small  contingents  of  workers  were  allowed  to 
return  to  the  urban  areas  to  reopen  some  plants.  Like  their  Chinese 
counterparts,  the  Cambodian  communists  had  great  faith  in  the 
inventive  power  and  the  technical  aptitude  of  the  masses,  and  they 
constantly  published  reports  of  peasants'  adapting  old  mechanical 
parts  to  new  uses.  Much  as  the  Chinese  had  attempted  unsuccess- 
fully to  build  a  new  steel  industry  based  on  backyard  furnaces  during 
the  Great  Leap  Forward,  the  Khmer  Rouge  sought  to  move  in- 
dustry to  the  countryside.  Significantly,  the  seal  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea  displayed  not  only  sheaves  of  rice  and  irrigation  sluices, 
but  also  a  factory  with  smokestacks. 

Politics  under  the  Khmer  Rouge 

By  the  April  1975  communist  victory,  Pol  Pot  and  his  close  as- 
sociates occupied  the  most  important  positions  in  the  KCP  and  in 
the  state  hierarchies.  He  had  been  KCP  general  secretary  since 
February  1963.  His  associates  functioned  as  the  party's  Political 
Bureau,  and  they  controlled  a  majority  of  the  seats  on  the  Central 
Committee.  Khieu  Thirith's  management  of  youth  groups  meant 
that  Pol  Pot  had  ample  reserves  of  zealous  young  cadres,  "the 
nucleus  and  wick  of  the  struggle,"  committed  to  imposing  the  party 
center's  will  throughout  the  country.  But  his  domination  of  the 
revolutionary  movement  was  not  complete.  In  different  areas  of 
the  country,  especially  in  the  Eastern  Zone,  pro- Vietnamese  and 
veteran  Khmer  Issarak  commanders  were  jealous  of  their  indepen- 
dence. They  questioned,  and  at  times  openly  defied,  his  policies 
of  revolutionary  terror  and  hostility  toward  Vietnam.  The  highest 
ranks  of  the  party  were  not  free  of  dissension. 

Like  Joseph  Stalin  in  the  late  1920s  and  in  the  1930s,  Pol  Pot 
initiated  a  purge  of  his  opponents,  both  imagined  and  real.  In  terms 
of  the  number  of  people  liquidated  in  relation  to  the  total  population, 


59 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Khmer  Rouge  terror  was  far  bloodier  than  Stalin's.  Through 
the  1970s,  and  especially  after  mid- 1975,  the  party  was  shaken  by 
factional  struggles.  There  were  even  armed  attempts  to  topple  Pol 
Pot.  The  resultant  purges  reached  a  crest  in  1977  and  1978  when 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  people,  including  some  of  the  most  im- 
portant KCP  leaders,  were  executed. 

Establishing  Democratic  Kampuchea 

The  communists  had  exercised  real  power  behind  the  facade, 
since  its  establishment  in  1970,  of  the  Royal  Government  of 
National  Union  of  Kampuchea,  (Governement  Royal  d'Union 
Nationale  du  Kampuchea — GRUNK — see  Appendix  B).  It  re- 
mained formally  in  control  of  the  country  until  the  proclamation 
of  the  Constitution  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  on  January  5,  1976. 
Three  months  later,  on  April  2,  Sihanouk  resigned  as  head  of  state. 
Sihanouk  remained  under  comfortable,  but  insecure,  house  arrest 
in  Phnom  Penh,  until  he  departed  for  China  on  the  last  flight  before 
Vietnamese  forces  captured  the  city  on  January  7,  1979. 

Khieu  Samphan  described  the  1976  Constitution  as  "not  the 
result  of  any  research  on  foreign  documents,  nor  .  .  .  the  fruit  of 
any  research  by  scholars.  In  fact  the  people — workers,  peasants, 
and  Revolutionary  Army — wrote  the  Constitution  with  their  own 
hands."  It  was  a  brief  document  of  sixteen  chapters  and  twenty- 
one  articles  that  defined  the  character  of  the  state;  the  goals  of  eco- 
nomic, social  and  cultural  policies;  and  the  basic  tenets  of  foreign 
policy.  The  "rights  and  duties  of  the  individual"  were  briefly  de- 
fined in  Article  12.  They  included  none  of  what  are  commonly 
regarded  as  guarantees  of  political  human  rights  except  the  state- 
ment that  "men  and  women  are  equal  in  every  respect."  The  docu- 
ment declared,  however,  that  "all  workers"  and  "all  peasants" 
were  "masters"  of  their  factories  and  fields.  An  assertion  that  "there 
is  absolutely  no  unemployment  in  Democratic  Kampuchea"  rings 
true  in  light  of  the  regime's  massive  use  of  forced  labor. 

The  Constitution  defined  Democratic  Kampuchea's  foreign  pol- 
icy principles  in  Article  21,  the  document's  longest,  in  terms  of 
"independence,  peace,  neutrality,  and  nonalignment."  It  pledged 
the  country's  support  to  anti-imperialist  struggles  in  the  Third 
World.  In  light  of  the  regime's  aggressive  attacks  against  Viet- 
namese, Thai,  and  Lao  territory  during  1977  and  1978,  the  promise 
to  "maintain  close  and  friendly  relations  with  all  countries  shar- 
ing a  common  border"  bore  little  resemblance  to  reality. 

Governmental  institutions  were  outiined  very  briefly  in  the  Con- 
stitution. The  legislature,  the  Kampuchean  People's  Representa- 
tive Assembly  (KPRA),  contained  250  members  "representing 


60 


Historical  Setting 


workers,  peasants,  and  other  working  people  and  the  Kampuchean 
Revolutionary  army."  One  hundred  and  fifty  KPRA  seats  were 
allocated  for  peasant  representatives;  fifty,  for  the  armed  forces; 
and  fifty,  for  worker  and  other  representatives.  The  legislature  was 
to  be  popularly  elected  for  a  five-year  term.  Its  first  and  only  elec- 
tion was  held  on  March  20,  1976.  '  'New  people"  apparently  were 
not  allowed  to  participate. 

The  executive  branch  of  government  also  was  chosen  by  the 
KPRA.  It  consisted  of  a  state  presidium  " responsible  for  represent- 
ing the  state  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  inside  and  outside  the  coun- 
try." It  served  for  a  five-year  term,  and  its  president  was  head  of 
state.  Khieu  Samphan  was  the  first  and  only  person  to  serve  in 
this  office,  which  he  assumed  after  Sihanouk's  resignation.  The 
judicial  system  was  composed  of  "people's  courts,"  the  judges  for 
which  were  appointed  by  the  KPRA,  as  was  the  executive  branch. 

The  Constitution  did  not  mention  regional  or  local  government 
institutions.  After  assuming  power,  the  Khmer  Rouge  abolished 
the  old  provinces  (khet)  and  replaced  them  with  seven  zones;  the 
Northern  Zone,  Northeastern  Zone,  Northwestern  Zone,  Central 
Zone,  Eastern  Zone,  Western  Zone,  and  Southwestern  Zone.  There 
were  also  two  other  regional-level  units:  the  Kracheh  Special  Region 
Number  505  and,  until  1977,  the  Siemreab  Special  Region  Num- 
ber 106.  The  zones  were  divided  into  damban  (regions)  that  were 
given  numbers.  Number  One,  appropriately,  encompassed  the 
Samlot  region  of  the  Northwestern  Zone  (including  Batdambang 
Province),  where  the  insurrection  against  Sihanouk  had  erupted 
in  early  1967.  With  this  exception,  the  damban  appear  to  have  been 
numbered  arbitrarily. 

The  damban  were  divided  into  srok  (districts),  khum  (subdistricts), 
and  phum  (villages),  the  latter  usually  containing  several  hundred 
people.  This  pattern  was  roughly  similar  to  that  which  existed  under 
Sihanouk  and  the  Khmer  Republic,  but  inhabitants  of  the  villages 
were  organized  into  krom  (groups)  composed  of  ten  to  fifteen  fami- 
lies. On  each  level,  administration  was  directed  by  a  three-person 
committee  (kanak,  or  kena).  KCP  members  occupied  committee  posts 
at  the  higher  levels.  Subdistrict  and  village  committees  were  often 
staffed  by  local  poor  peasants,  and,  very  rarely,  by  "new  people." 
Cooperatives  (sahakor),  similar  in  jurisdictional  area  to  the  khum, 
assumed  local  government  responsibilities  in  some  areas. 

An  Elusive  Party 

To  most  people  inside  and  outside  Democratic  Kampuchea,  the 
communist  party  was  known  simply  as  the  Angkar  Loeu.  The 
party's  commitment  to  revolution  was  expressed  in  the  terminology 


61 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  1976  Constitution,  but  no  mention  was  made  of  a  specifi- 
cally Marxist-Leninist  ideology.  The  KCP's  real  leaders  and  iden- 
tity were  kept  closely  guarded  secrets  from  non-members  until  1977. 
Head  of  state  Khieu  Samphan  was  a  front — Sihanouk  describes 
him  as  a  '  'bit  player" — for  the  most  important  leader,  Saloth  Sar, 
whose  appearances  and  speeches  were  not  publicized  in  the  offi- 
cial media.  Under  the  name  Pol  Pot,  Saloth  Sar  was  elected  to  a 
seat  in  the  KPRA  in  March  1976  as  a  representative  of  rubber  plan- 
tation workers,  and  he  became  Democratic  Kampuchea's  prime 
minister  the  following  month. 

The  histories  of  most  revolutionary  movements  contain  a  clan- 
destine theme,  but  rarely  have  any  approached  the  near-paranoia 
of  the  Cambodian  communists.  In  part,  this  reflected  the  profound 
distrust  with  which  Pol  Pot  and  his  associates  regarded  people  out- 
side their  small,  closed  circle  that  had  begun  its  association  in  Paris 
in  the  1950s.  Also,  there  may  have  been  an  unwillingness  to  risk 
the  support  of  a  still-conservative  peasantry  by  publicly  embrac- 
ing Marxism-Leninism.  The  most  important  reason  for  the  ob- 
session with  secrecy,  however,  was  intraparty  strife — the  KCP's 
continuing  failure  to  resolve  factional  differences  and  to  achieve 
consensus  on  its  mission  and  policies.  Even  more  than  the  future, 
however,  the  past  was  a  focus  of  bitter  controversy:  how  much 
should  the  KCP  acknowledge  its  debt  to  the  Vietnamese  com- 
munists? 

On  September  18,  in  a  speech  mourning  the  death  of  Mao 
Zedong,  Pol  Pot  announced  that  the  Angkar  was  "Marxist- 
Leninist"  and  that  it  enjoyed  "fraternal  relations"  with  the  Chinese 
Communist  Party.  But  it  was  not  until  a  year  later,  in  September 
1977,  that  Pol  Pot  revealed  the  existence  of  the  KCP  and  its  his- 
tory in  a  five-hour  recorded  radio  speech.  He  stated  that  the  KCP 
was  seventeen  years  old  and  that  its  founding  date  had  been  Sep- 
tember 30,  1960.  He  noted  that  the  KCP's  decision  to  disclose  its 
real  identity  had  been  encouraged  by  "foreign  friends"  (the 
Chinese)  who  wanted  the  KCP  to  take  credit  for  the  revolutionary 
victory. 

Pol  Pot's  mention  of  the  September  1960  founding  date  was  ex- 
tremely significant.  Within  the  party  ranks,  September  30,  1951, 
traditionally  had  been  recognized  as  its  founding  date.  This  was 
the  day  when  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolution- 
ary Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B)  was  established  following  the 
reorganization  of  the  Indochinese  Communist  Party  (ICP — see 
Appendix  B).  The  September  1960  meeting  had  been  considered 
the  KPRP's  second  congress,  but  in  the  September-October  1976 
edition  of  the  party's  official  journal,  Tung  Padevat  (Revolutionary 


62 


Historical  Setting 


Flag),  the  date  of  birth  of  the  KPRP  was  given  as  September  30, 
1960.  Tung  Padevat  declared  that  the  new  founding  date  was  adopted 
because  4 'we  must  arrange  the  history  of  the  party  into  something 
clean  and  perfect,  in  line  with  our  policies  of  independence  and 
self-mastery."  Pol  Pot's  speech  a  year  later  gave  official  sanction 
to  this  view. 

Another  party  journal,  Tung  Kraham  (Red  Flag),  mentioned  the 
traditional  founding  date,  September  30,  1951,  in  its  September 
1976  issue.  The  argument  over  the  birth  date  reflected  deep  fac- 
tional divisions  within  the  KCP.  Backers  of  the  1951  birth  date, 
if  not  pro- Vietnamese,  were  at  least  willing  to  recognize  their  move- 
ment's past  dependence  on  Vietnamese  support.  Pol  Pot  and  his 
associates  adopted  the  1960  birthday  to  emphasize  the  party's  Cam- 
bodian identity  and  to  distance  it  from  any  association  with  the 
Vietnamese  communists.  The  party's  official  history,  or  "Black 
Booh,  "  published  in  1978  after  pro- Vietnamese  elements  had  been 
liquidated,  stated  that  the  KCP  had  severed  fraternal  party  rela- 
tions with  the  Vietnam  Workers'  Party  as  early  as  1973. 

Intraparty  Conflict 

On  the  eve  of  its  1975  victory  against  the  Lon  Nol  forces,  the 
KCP  was,  in  terms  of  personnel,  ideological  viewpoints,  and  fac- 
tional loyalties,  quite  heterogeneous.  Etcheson,  in  The  Rise  and 
Demise  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  identifies  six  factions:  the  Pol  Pot 
group  (members  of  which  he  labels  "Stalinists");  internationalists 
(pro- Vietnamese  elements  who  were  based  in  Hanoi  after  1954, 
and  who  returned  to  the  country  when  the  FUNK  united  front  was 
declared  in  1970);  veterans  of  the  leftist  Khmer  Issarak  (who  re- 
mained in  the  country  after  1954,  mostly  in  the  southern  and  in 
western  parts  of  the  country);  veterans  of  the  Pracheachon  Party 
founded  in  1954  (which  had  contested  Sihanouk's  Sangkum  openly 
until  being  driven  underground  in  the  1960s);  pro-Chinese  or 
Maoist  elements  (including  Paris-group  intellectuals  Hou  Yuon  and 
Hu  Nim);  and  the  pro-Sihanouk  Khmer  Rumdo  (see  Appendix 
B).  Ben  Kiernan,  another  analyst  of  Cambodia,  identifies  three 
factions:  the  Pol  Pot  faction,  the  pro- Vietnamese  communists,  and 
the  adherents  of  the  Chinese  Cultural  Revolution  model.  The  roles 
of  ideology  and  of  conflicting  party  lines  in  factional  struggles, 
however,  should  not  be  overemphasized.  Behind  doctrinal  differ- 
ences lay  the  dynamics  of  personal  rivalry  and  the  strong  sense  of 
patron-client  loyalty  that  has  always  characterized  Cambodian 
politics. 

Although  the  Revolutionary  Army  of  Kampuchea  (RAK)  was 
"reestablished"  in  July  1975  to  bring  all  Khmer  Rouge  units 


63 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


formally  under  central  authority,  real  control  of  regional  armed 
forces  remained  in  the  hands  of  the  zone  party  committee  heads. 
The  most  important  center  of  regional  resistance  to  the  Pol  Pot- 
dominated  party  center  was  the  Eastern  Zone,  comprising  part  or 
all  of  the  old  provinces  of  Prey  Veng,  Svay  Rieng,  Kandal,  and 
Kampong  Cham  that  adjoined  Vietnam.  Its  leader  was  So  Phim, 
a  pro- Vietnamese  internationalist. 

Differences  between  the  Eastern  Zone  revolutionaries  and  the 
other  Khmer  Rouge  were  readily  apparent  by  1975.  While  the  uni- 
forms of  Pol  Pot  loyalists  and  their  allies  were  black,  the  uniforms 
of  the  Eastern  Zone  were  a  distinctive  green.  In  addition,  cadre 
behavior  toward  the  civilian  population  in  the  Eastern  Zone  was 
generally  exemplary.  It  seems  that  some  of  the  Eastern  cadres  were 
sympathetic  to  Sihanouk;  refugee  Molyda  Szymusiak  wrote  that 
during  the  evacuation  of  Phnom  Penh,  a  "Sihanouk  Khmer"  sol- 
dier advised  her  relatives  (who  were  distantly  related  to  the  royal 
family)  to  accompany  him  to  Prey  Veng  Province  on  Cambodia's 
southern  border. 

At  least  two  coups  d'etat  against  the  center  were  attempted — in 
July  and  in  September,  1975.  The  latter  incident  involved  Eastern 
Zone  troops.  After  April  1975,  Hou  Yuon,  one  of  the  original  Paris 
group,  disappeared.  His  colleague,  Hu  Nim,  who  was  tortured  and 
killed  in  the  Tuol  Sleng  detention  center  in  1977,  indicated  in  his 
confession  that  Hou  Yuon  had  been  liquidated  for  opposing  the 
extremism  of  the  center's  policies. 

Pol  Pot  loyalists  occupied  most  of  the  important  positions  in  the 
new  government  that  was  formed  after  the  March  20,  1976,  elec- 
tions; however,  Vorn  Vet,  a  pro- Vietnamese  leader,  was  appointed 
second  vice  premier  with  responsibility  over  six  ministry-level  eco- 
nomic committees,  and  he  also  headed  the  special  Phnom  Penh 
capital  zone.  So  Phim,  a  longtime  rival  of  Pol  Pot  within  the  com- 
munist movement,  was  first  vice  president  of  the  presidium  and 
a  member  of  the  KCP  Political  Bureau.  (The  second  vice  presi- 
dent, Nhim  Ros,  was  a  Pol  Pot  loyalist  who  commanded  the  North- 
western Zone.)  The  year  1976  appears  to  have  been  a  time  initially 
of  retreat  for  the  faction  led  by  Pol  Pot.  Many  communists  were 
alienated  by  his  authoritarian  behavior.  Article  4  of  the  Constitu- 
tion, "Democratic  Kampuchea  applies  the  collective  principle  in 
leadership  and  in  work,"  apparently  reflects  this  opinion.  In  rela- 
tion to  what  had  gone  before  and  what  was  to  come,  policies  dur- 
ing 1976  were  moderate.  The  terror  eased.  Relations  with  Hanoi 
were  placed  on  a  friendlier  footing.  Trade  and  diplomatic  relations 
were  expanded. 


64 


Historical  Setting 


On  September  27,  1976,  Pol  Pot  resigned  as  premier  "for  rea- 
sons of  health. ' '  Nuon  Chea,  the  pro-Vietnamese  deputy  premier, 
became  acting  premier.  Little  is  known  of  the  intense  factional 
maneuvering  that  was  occurring  at  this  time,  but  by  late  October 
1976,  Pol  Pot  had  regained  his  post.  On  October  22,  his  come- 
back was  confirmed  with  his  issuance  of  a  statement  in  his  capac- 
ity as  prime  minister  condemning  China's  "counterrevolutionary 
Gang  of  Four,"  who  had  been  arrested  in  Beijing  on  October  6. 

The  influence  of  China  on  Democratic  Kampuchea's  internal 
politics  apparently  was  a  crucial,  though  little  understood,  factor 
in  Pol  Pot's  defeat  of  his  pro- Vietnamese  rivals.  Etcheson  and  Kier- 
nan  have  suggested,  in  separate  articles,  that  radicals  in  the  Chinese 
Communist  Party  may  have  backed  pro-Vietnamese  Internation- 
alist elements  in  the  KCP  in  1976  because  they  were  interested  in 
preserving  good  relations  with  Hanoi.  The  fall  of  the  radicals  in 
October  1976,  a  month  after  Mao  Zedong's  death,  brought  in  the 
moderates,  led  by  Deng  Xiaoping.  As  the  subsequent  break  be- 
tween Beijing  and  Hanoi  shows,  Deng  was  inclined  to  regard  Viet- 
nam as  an  agent  of  Soviet '  'hegemonism. ' '  Chinese  support  of  the 
Pol  Pot  faction  may  have  been  a  crucial  element  in  its  ability  to 
triumph  over  the  pro- Vietnamese  communists  in  the  fall  of  1976. 
From  an  ideological  standpoint,  the  pragmatic  Deng  Xiaoping  and 
the  ultra- radical  Pol  Pot  were  polar  opposites,  but  from  the  geo- 
political perspective,  the  post-Mao  Zedong  leadership  recognized 
the  value  of  having  a  well-armed  Cambodian  thorn  in  the  side  of 
Vietnam.  Immediately  after  making  his  September  27,  1977,  speech 
revealing  the  KCP's  existence,  Pol  Pot,  accompanied  by  Ieng  Sary 
and  Vorn  Vet,  visited  Beijing,  where  he  acknowledged  the  impor- 
tance of  Maoist  thought  to  the  Cambodian  revolution.  In  early 
1978,  the  Chinese  sent  substantial  military  aid,  which  included 
armor,  artillery,  and  antitank  guns. 

The  Purge 

In  1975  Pol  Pot  concluded  an  alliance  with  the  party  head  of 
the  Southwestern  Zone,  Ta  Mok,  who  was  a  Khmer  Issarak  veter- 
an and,  like  Pol  Pot,  was  strongly  anti- Vietnamese.  During  1977 
and  1978,  Ta  Mok  provided  the  backing  that  enabled  Pol  Pot  to 
liquidate  the  opposition  within  the  KCP  and  to  initiate  new  ter- 
rorism against  the  local  population.  In  February  1977,  Southwestern 
cadres  went  into  the  Eastern,  Northern,  and  Western  zones  to  purge 
local  Khmer  Rouge.  Four  months  later,  the  same  process  was  begun 
in  the  Northwestern  Zone.  The  purges  intensified  following  an  abor- 
tive coup  d'etat  in  August. 


65 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

After  the  fall  of  the  capital,  Ta  Mok's  lieutenant,  a  former  high 
school  teacher  who  assumed  the  name  Mit  (Comrade)  Deuch,  be- 
came head  of  the  secret  police,  and  established  the  Tuol  Sleng  in- 
terrogation and  detention  center  on  the  site  of  a  former  Phnom 
Penh  high  school.  In  the  1975  to  1976  period,  Tuol  Sleng' s 
meticulous  records  show  that  2,404  "antiparty  elements"  were  tor- 
tured and  executed.  The  terror  escalated  in  1977,  when  the  num- 
ber of  victims  rose  to  6,330.  In  the  first  six  months  of  1978,  records 
show  that  5,765  people  were  killed;  records  for  the  latter  half  of 
that  year  have  not  been  discovered.  The  victims  who  passed  through 
Tuol  Sleng  from  mid- 1975  to  January  1979  numbered  about 
20,000.  Among  those  who  met  death  in  the  infamous  prison  were 
Paris  alumni  Hu  Nim  and  (presumably)  Hou  Yuon.  Similar  centers 
were  set  up  throughout  the  country  (Tuol  Sleng' s  code  designa- 
tion, S-21 ,  suggests  that  at  least  twenty  other  similar  sites  had  been 
established).  Molyda  Szymusiak  writes  that  a  new  wave  of  terror 
began  in  the  Batdambang  region  after  cadres  arrived  from  the  south. 
The  Sala  Som  Niat,  a  school  for  political  education  was  converted 
into  an  extermination  center  where  local  communists  were  tortured 
and  executed.  The  pattern  in  these  centers  was  much  the  same: 
victims  were  tortured,  forced  to  write  often  absurd  confessions,  and 
then  killed.  A  young  British  teacher,  captured  in  a  yacht  off  the 
Cambodian  coast,  confessed  at  Tuol  Sleng  that  he  had  been 
recruited  by  the  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA)  of  the  United 
States  when  he  was  twelve  years  old;  he  was  subsequently  mur- 
dered. Hu  Nim  was  forced  to  confess  that  he  had  become  a  CIA 
agent  in  1957. 

The  Eastern  Zone  apparently  remained  largely  unaffected  by 
the  purge  until  May  1978,  when  So  Phim  led  a  revolt  that  pro- 
voked massive  retaliation  by  Pol  Pot  and  his  Southwestern  hench- 
men. In  the  bloodiest  purge  of  the  entire  1975  to  1978  period,  as 
many  as  100,000  people  in  the  Eastern  Zone — labeled  people  with 
"Khmer  bodies  but  Vietnamese  minds" — were  liquidated  or  were 
deported  to  face  certain  death  in  other  parts  of  the  country.  Most 
of  the  victims  were  political  cadres,  "new  people,"  and  Vietnamese 
or  part- Vietnamese  residents.  So  Phim  reportedly  committed  sui- 
cide as  he  faced  capture.  Some  of  his  subordinates,  including  Heng 
Samrin,  the  leader  of  the  PRK  after  1979,  fled  to  Vietnam. 

The  Fall  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 

Immediately  following  the  Khmer  Rouge  victory  in  1975,  there 
were  skirmishes  between  their  troops  and  Vietnamese  forces.  A 
number  of  incidents  occurred  in  May  1975.  The  Cambodians 
launched  attacks  on  the  Vietnamese  islands  of  Phu  Quoc  and  Tho 


66 


67 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Chu  and  intruded  into  Vietnamese  border  provinces.  In  late  May, 
at  about  the  same  time  that  the  United  States  launched  an  air  strike 
against  the  oil  refinery  at  Kampong  Saom,  following  the  Mayaguez 
incident,  Vietnamese  forces  seized  the  Cambodian  island  of  Poulo 
Wai.  The  following  month,  Pol  Pot  and  Ieng  Sary  visited  Hanoi. 
They  proposed  a  friendship  treaty  between  the  two  countries,  an 
idea  that  met  with  a  cool  reception  from  Vietnam's  leaders. 
Although  the  Vietnamese  evacuated  Poulo  Wai  in  August,  inci- 
dents continued  along  Cambodian's  northeastern  border.  At  the 
instigation  of  the  Phnom  Penh  regime,  thousands  of  Vietnamese 
also  were  driven  out  of  Cambodia. 

Relations  between  Cambodia  and  Vietnam  improved  in  1976, 
in  part  because  of  Pol  Pot's  preoccupation  with  intraparty 
challenges.  In  May  Cambodian  and  Vietnamese  representatives 
met  in  Phnom  Penh  in  order  to  establish  a  commission  to  resolve 
border  disagreements.  The  Vietnamese,  however,  refused  to  recog- 
nize the  Brevie  Line — the  colonial-era  demarcation  of  maritime 
borders  between  the  two  countries — and  the  negotiations  broke 
down.  In  late  September,  however,  a  few  days  before  Pol  Pot  was 
forced  to  resign  as  prime  minister,  air  links  were  established  be- 
tween Phnom  Penh  and  Hanoi. 

With  Pol  Pot  back  in  the  forefront  of  the  regime  in  1977,  the 
situation  rapidly  deteriorated.  Incidents  escalated  along  all  of  Cam- 
bodia's borders.  Khmer  Rouge  forces  attacked  villages  in  the  border 
areas  of  Thailand  near  Aranyaprathet.  Brutal  murders  of  Thai  vil- 
lagers, including  women  and  children,  were  the  first  widely  reported 
concrete  evidence  of  Khmer  Rouge  atrocities.  There  were  also  in- 
cidents along  the  Laotian  border.  At  approximately  the  same  time, 
villages  in  Vietnam's  border  areas  underwent  renewed  attacks.  In 
turn,  Vietnam  launched  air  strikes  against  Cambodia.  In  Septem- 
ber, border  fighting  resulted  in  as  many  as  1,000  Vietnamese 
civilian  casualties.  The  following  month,  the  Vietnamese  counter- 
attacked in  a  campaign  involving  a  force  of  20,000  personnel.  Viet- 
namese defense  minister  General  Vo  Nguyen  Giap  underestimated 
the  tenacity  of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  however,  and  was  obliged  to 
commit  an  additional  58,000  reinforcements  in  December.  On 
January  6,  1978,  Giap's  forces  began  an  orderly  withdrawal  from 
Cambodian  territory.  The  Vietnamese  apparently  believed  they 
had  ''taught  a  lesson"  to  the  Cambodians,  but  Pol  Pot  proclaimed 
this  a  "victory"  even  greater  than  that  of  April  17,  1975. 

Faced  with  growing  Khmer  Rouge  belligerence,  the  Vietnamese 
leadership  decided  in  early  1978  to  support  internal  resistance  to 
the  Pol  Pot  regime,  with  the  result  that  the  Eastern  Zone  became 
a  focus  of  insurrection.  War  hysteria  reached  bizarre  levels  within 


68 


Historical  Setting 


Democratic  Kampuchea.  In  May  1978,  on  the  eve  of  So  Phim's 
Eastern  Zone  uprising,  Radio  Phnom  Penh  declared  that  if  each 
Cambodian  soldier  killed  thirty  Vietnamese,  only  2  million  troops 
would  be  needed  to  eliminate  the  entire  Vietnamese  population 
of  50  million.  It  appears  that  the  leadership  in  Phnom  Penh  was 
seized  with  immense  territorial  ambitions,  i.e.,  to  recover  the 
Mekong  Delta  region,  which  they  regarded  as  Khmer  territory. 

Massacres  of  ethnic  Vietnamese  and  of  their  sympathizers  by 
the  Khmer  Rouge  intensified  in  the  Eastern  Zone  after  the  May 
revolt.  In  November,  Vorn  Vet  led  an  unsuccessful  coup  d'etat. 
There  were  now  tens  of  thousands  of  Cambodian  and  Vietnamese 
exiles  on  Vietnamese  territory.  On  December  3,  1978,  Radio  Hanoi 
announced  the  formation  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  National 
United  Front  for  National  Salvation  (KNUFNS— see  Appendix  B). 
This  was  a  heterogeneous  group  of  communist  and  noncommunist 
exiles  who  shared  an  antipathy  to  the  Pol  Pot  regime  and  a  virtu- 
ally total  dependence  on  Vietnamese  backing  and  protection.  The 
KNUFNS  provided  the  semblance,  if  not  the  reality,  of  legitimacy 
for  Vietnam's  invasion  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  and  for  its  sub- 
sequent establishment  of  a  satellite  regime  in  Phnom  Penh  (see  The 
Vietnamese  Invasion  of  Cambodia,  ch.  5). 

In  the  meantime,  as  1978  wore  on,  Cambodian  bellicosity  in 
the  border  areas  surpassed  Hanoi's  threshold  of  tolerance.  Viet- 
namese policy  makers  opted  for  a  military  solution  and,  on  De- 
cember 22,  Vietnam  launched  its  offensive  with  the  intent  of 
overthrowing  Democratic  Kampuchea.  An  invasion  force  of 
120,000,  consisting  of  combined  armor  and  infantry  units  with 
strong  artillery  support,  drove  west  into  the  level  countryside  of 
Cambodia's  southeastern  provinces.  After  a  seventeen-day  blitz- 
krieg, Phnom  Penh  fell  to  the  advancing  Vietnamese  on  January 
7,  1979.  From  new  redoubts  in  the  mountain  and  jungle  fastness 
of  Cambodia's  periphery,  Pol  Pot  and  other  Khmer  Rouge  lead- 
ers regrouped  their  units,  issued  a  new  call  to  arms,  and  reignited 
a  stubborn  insurgency  against  the  regime  in  power  as  they  had  done 
in  the  late  1960s.  For  the  moment,  however,  the  Vietnamese  in- 
vasion had  accomplished  its  purpose  of  deposing  an  unlamented 
and  particularly  loathsome  dictatorship.  A  new  administration 
under  the  mentorship  of  Hanoi  was  quickly  established,  and  it  set 
about  competing,  both  domestically  and  internationally,  with  the 
Khmer  Rouge  as  the  legitimate  government  of  Cambodia.  Peace 
still  eluded  the  war- ravaged  nation,  however,  and  although  the  in- 
surgency set  in  motion  by  the  Khmer  Rouge  proved  unable  to  topple 
the  new  Vietnamese-backed  regime  in  Phnom  Penh,  it  did  nonethe- 
less keep  the  country  in  a  permanent  state  of  insecurity.  The 


69 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

fledgling  Khmer  administration,  weak  and  lacking  in  manpower 
and  in  resources,  was  propped  up  by  a  substantial  Vietnamese  mili- 
tary force  and  civilian  advisory  effort.  As  events  in  the  1980s 
progressed,  the  main  preoccupations  of  the  new  regime  were  sur- 
vival, restoring  the  economy,  and  combating  the  Khmer  Rouge 
insurgency  by  military  and  by  political  means.  The  fostering  of 
activity  to  meet  these  imperatives  and  the  building  of  institutions 
are  described  in  subsequent  chapters  (see  The  People's  Republic 
of  Kampuchea,  ch.  4;  The  Vietnamese  Invasion  of  Cambodia, 
ch.  5). 

*    *  * 

Probably  the  most  definitive  account  of  Cambodian  history  in 
English  is  David  P.  Chandler's^  History  of  Cambodia,  which  covers 
this  subject  from  the  earliest  centuries  to  the  attainment  of  indepen- 
dence. An  earlier  work,  Martin  Herz's  A  Short  History  of  Cambodia 
from  the  Days  of  Angkor  to  the  Present,  is  somewhat  dated  but  contains 
highly  specific  material  on  the  early  Sihanouk  years.  The  sections 
on  Cambodia  in  D.G.E.  Hall's  classic,  A  History  of  South- East  Asia, 
are  also  useful.  Hall's  parallel  treatments  of  Vietnamese  and  Thai 
history  provide  interesting  perspective.  George  Coedes'  Angkor:  An 
Introduction  and  The  Making  of  South  East  Asia  are  informative  on 
the  ancient  kingdoms.  The  former  provides  good  descriptions  of 
the  monuments  of  Angkor,  their  architectural  motifs,  and  their  re- 
ligious significance.  For  an  understanding  of  the  rise  of  communism 
in  Cambodia  an  essential  source  is  Ben  Kiernan's  How  Pol  Pot  Came 
to  Power, 

William  Shawcross's  Sideshow:  Kissinger,  Nixon,  and  the  Destruc- 
tion of  Cambodia  is  a  critical  account  of  United  States  involvement 
in  the  country  before  and  during  the  years,  1970  to  1975,  when 
Lon  Nol  was  in  power.  Another  perspective  is  provided  by  Henry 
Kissinger  in  White  House  Years  and  in  Years  of  Upheaval. 

A  large  number  of  books  have  been  written  on  the  horrors  of 
the  Democratic  Kampuchea  period.  Molyda  Szymusiak's  The  Stones 
Cry  Out  is  one  of  the  most  gripping.  Others  include  Francois  Pon- 
chaud's  Cambodia:  Year  Zero  and  Sydney  Schanberg's  The  Death  and 
Life  of  Dith  Pran.  The  film  "The  Killing  Fields"  is  also  based  on 
the  experiences  in  Cambodia  during  and  after  the  war  of  Dith 
Pran — journalist  Schanberg's  cameraman  in  wartime  Phnom  Penh. 
Norodom  Sihanouk's  War  and  Hope  provides  another  close-up. 
Useful  scholarly  treatments  of  the  period  include  Craig  Etcheson's 
perspective  on  the  Khmer  Rouge,  The  Rise  and  Demise  of  Demo- 
cratic Kampuchea;  two  collections  of  essays,  Peasants  and  Politics  in 


70 


Historical  Setting 


Kampuchea,  1942-81,  edited  by  Ben  Kiernan  and  Chanthou  Boua; 
and  Revolution  and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea,  edited  by  David  P. 
Chandler  and  Ben  Kiernan.  One  well-reviewed  account  of  life  in 
Democratic  Kampuchea  and  the  transition  to  its  successor  regime 
is  Elizabeth  Becker's  When  the  War  Was  Over;  another  account, 
equally  well-regarded  by  critics,  addressing  the  abiding  enmity  be- 
tween Cambodia  and  Vietnam  is  Nayan  Chanda's  Brother  Enemy. 
Familiarity  with  both  sources  is  essential  for  an  understanding  of 
what  occurred  in  Cambodia  after  1975.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


71 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Members  of  the  ethnic  Cham  minority  near  Kampong  Cham 


SINCE  1975  CAMBODIA  has  suffered  through  one  of  the  most 
catastrophic  periods  in  its  long  history.  The  takeover  of  the  coun- 
try by  the  communist  Khmer  Rouge  (see  Appendix  B)  in  1975, 
its  violent  aftermath,  and  the  constant  warfare  between  communist 
and  noncommunist  factions  has  resulted  in  widespread  and  major 
changes  in  the  Cambodian  social  fabric.  The  country  was  plunged 
into  a  dark  age  from  which  it  was  slowly  emerging  in  the  late  1980s. 

Under  the  Khmer  Rouge,  the  entire  social  structure  of  the  coun- 
try suffered  radical  and  massive  changes.  An  estimated  1  million 
to  2  million  Cambodians  died  during  the  first  three-and-one-half 
years  of  communist  rule.  Traditional  family  life  was  violently  dis- 
rupted and  virtually  abolished  between  1975  and  1979.  Nuclear 
families — the  most  important  units  of  Cambodian  society — were 
broken  up  and  were  replaced  with  communal  groupings.  About 
97  percent  of  the  population  was  forced  into  communal  economic 
programs.  Urban  dwellers  were  driven  into  the  countryside  in  mass 
marches  that  caused  great  suffering  and  many  deaths.  Rural  soci- 
ety was  reorganized  into  interfamilial  units  known  as  krom  (groups). 
Urban  Cambodians,  ethnic  minorities,  and  educated  people  suffered 
especially  harsh  treatment.  The  ethnic  Chinese,  because  they  were 
engaged  extensively  in  small  businesses  and  were  mainly  urban 
dwellers,  were  targets  for  communist  persecution,  as  were  the  Cham 
(see  Glossary),  a  prominent  ethnic  minority  group.  Educated  people 
were  special  targets  for  extermination,  and  most  of  the  teachers 
and  physicians  fled  the  country  or  were  massacred.  Those  who 
showed  evidence  of  Western  influence,  such  as  using  the  English 
language,  were  suspect.  Although  freedom  of  religion  was  guaran- 
teed in  theory  under  the  Khmer  Rouge,  in  fact  Buddhism  and  other 
religions  were  repressed  ruthlessly.  Temples  were  destroyed  or  put 
to  secular  uses,  and  monks  were  defrocked  and  forced  do  manual 
labor. 

The  Vietnamese  invasion  in  December  1978  ameliorated  the  sit- 
uation somewhat.  As  a  result  of  the  invasion,  the  Khmer  Rouge 
government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  was  overthrown,  and  the 
People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  (PRK — see  Appendix  B)  under 
Heng  Samrin  was  installed  in  1979.  The  PRK  allowed  consider- 
ably more  freedom  than  had  its  predecessor.  In  the  late  1980s, 
Marxist-Leninist  socialism  as  it  existed  in  Vietnam  was  the  goal 
of  the  PRK  government  in  Phnom  Penh.  The  regime  was  not 
pushing  hard  to  convert  the  country,  but  was  planning  a  gradual 


75 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

conversion  instead.  Religions  were  allowed  to  function.  The  govern- 
ment allowed  Buddhist  monks  to  return  to  their  temples,  although 
narrow  limits  were  placed  on  those  who  could  become  monks  and 
on  aspects  of  ritual.  The  education  system,  which  had  suffered 
almost  total  destruction  under  the  Khmer  Rouge,  was  reconstituted, 
and  the  number  of  students  attending  formal  classes  rose  dramati- 
cally in  the  early  1980s.  The  public  health  service  was  functioning 
again  in  the  mid-1980s,  and  modern  medical  services  were  avail- 
able although  trained  medical  personnel  and  some  medicines  con- 
tinued to  be  in  short  supply.  The  shortage  of  medical  personnel 
was  partially  filled  by  foreign  doctors  and  technicians.  The  PRK 
did  not  neglect  to  court  ethnic  minorities.  Members  of  one  of  the 
Khmer  Loeu  (or  highland  Khmer)  tribal  minorities  were  made  lead- 
ers in  several  northeastern  provinces,  and  members  of  the  Cham 
minority  served  in  the  central  government. 

Environment 

Cambodia  covers  181,040  square  kilometers  in  the  southwestern 
part  of  the  Indochina  peninsula.  It  lies  completely  within  the  tropics; 
its  southernmost  points  are  only  slightly  more  than  10°  above  the 
equator.  Roughly  square  in  shape,  the  country  is  bounded  on  the 
north  by  Thailand  and  by  Laos,  on  the  east  and  southeast  by  Viet- 
nam, and  on  the  west  by  the  Gulf  of  Thailand  and  by  Thailand. 
Much  of  the  country's  area  consists  of  rolling  plains.  Dominant 
features  are  the  large,  almost  centrally  located,  Tonle  Sap  (Great 
Lake)  and  the  Mekong  River,  which  traverses  the  country  from 
north  to  south. 

The  climate  is  monsoonal  and  has  marked  wet  and  dry  seasons 
of  relatively  equal  length.  Both  temperature  and  humidity  gener- 
ally are  high  throughout  the  year.  Forest  covers  about  two-thirds 
of  the  country,  but  it  has  been  somewhat  degraded  in  the  more 
readily  accessible  areas  by  a  method  called  slash-and-burn  agri- 
culture. 

Topography 

Cambodia  falls  within  several  well-defined  geographic  regions. 
The  largest  part  of  the  country — about  75  percent  of  the  total — 
consists  of  the  Tonle  Sap  Basin  and  the  Mekong  Lowlands.  To 
the  southeast  of  this  great  basin  is  the  Mekong  Delta,  which  ex- 
tends through  Vietnam  to  the  South  China  Sea.  The  basin  and 
delta  regions  are  rimmed  with  mountain  ranges  to  the  southwest 
(the  Cardamom  Mountains,  the  Elephant  Range)  and  to  the  north 
(Dangrek  Mountains).  Higher  land  to  the  northeast  and  to  the  east 
merges  into  the  Central  Highlands  of  southern  Vietnam  (see  fig.  4). 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  Tonle  Sap  Basin-Mekong  Lowlands  region  consists  chiefly 
of  plains  with  elevations  generally  of  less  than  100  meters.  As  the 
elevation  increases,  the  terrain  becomes  more  rolling  and  dissected. 

The  Cardamom  Mountains  in  the  southwest,  oriented  generally 
in  a  northwest- southeast  direction,  rise  to  more  than  1 ,500  meters. 
The  highest  mountain  in  Cambodia — Phnom  Aural,  at  1,771 
meters — is  in  the  eastern  part  of  this  range.  The  Elephant  Range, 
an  extension  running  toward  the  south  and  the  southeast  from  the 
Cardamom  Mountains,  rises  to  elevations  of  between  500  and  1,000 
meters.  These  two  ranges  are  bordered  on  the  west  by  a  narrow 
coastal  plain  that  contains  Kampong  Saom  Bay,  which  faces  the 
Gulf  of  Thailand.  This  area  was  largely  isolated  until  the  opening 
of  the  port  of  Kampong  Saom  (formerly  called  Sihanoukville)  and 
the  construction  of  a  road  and  railroad  connecting  Kampong  Saom, 
Kampot,  Takev,  and  Phnom  Penh  in  the  1960s. 

The  Dangrek  Mountains  at  the  northern  rim  of  the  Tonle  Sap 
Basin  consist  of  a  steep  escarpment  with  an  average  elevation  of 
about  500  meters,  the  highest  points  of  which  reach  more  than  700 
meters.  The  escarpment  faces  southward  and  is  the  southern  edge 
of  the  Korat  Plateau  in  Thailand.  The  watershed  along  the  escarp- 
ment marks  the  boundary  between  Thailand  and  Cambodia.  The 
main  road  through  a  pass  in  the  Dangrek  Mountains  at  O  Smach 
connects  northwestern  Cambodia  with  Thailand.  Despite  this  road 
and  those  running  through  a  few  other  passes,  in  general  the  escarp- 
ment impedes  easy  communication  between  the  two  countries.  Be- 
tween the  western  part  of  the  Dangrek  and  the  northern  part  of 
the  Cardamom  ranges,  however,  lies  an  extension  of  the  Tonle  Sap 
Basin  that  merges  into  lowlands  in  Thailand,  which  allows  easy 
access  from  the  border  to  Bangkok. 

The  Mekong  Valley,  which  offers  a  communication  route  be- 
tween Cambodia  and  Laos,  separates  the  eastern  end  of  the  Dan- 
grek Mountains  and  the  northeastern  highlands.  To  the  southeast, 
the  basin  joins  the  Mekong  Delta,  which,  extending  into  Vietnam, 
provides  both  water  and  land  communications  between  the  two 
countries. 

Climate 

Cambodia's  climate — like  that  of  the  rest  of  Southeast  Asia — is 
dominated  by  the  monsoons,  which  are  known  as  tropical  wet  and 
dry  because  of  the  distinctiy  marked  seasonal  differences.  The  mon- 
soonal  airflows  are  caused  by  annual  alternating  high  pressure  and 
low  pressure  over  the  Central  Asian  landmass.  In  summer, 
moisture-laden  air — the  southwest  monsoon — is  drawn  landward 
from  the  Indian  Ocean.  The  flow  is  reversed  during  the  winter, 


79 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  northeast  monsoon  sends  back  dry  air.  The  southwest  mon- 
soon brings  the  rainy  season  from  mid-May  to  mid-September  or 
to  early  October,  and  the  northeast  monsoon  flow  of  drier  and  cooler 
air  lasts  from  early  November  to  March.  The  southern  third  of 
the  country  has  a  two-month  dry  season;  the  northern  two- thirds, 
a  four-month  one.  Short  transitional  periods,  which  are  marked 
by  some  difference  in  humidity  but  by  little  change  in  tempera- 
ture, intervene  between  the  alternating  seasons.  Temperatures  are 
fairly  uniform  throughout  the  Tonle  Sap  Basin  area,  with  only  small 
variations  from  the  average  annual  mean  of  around  25°C.  The 
maximum  mean  is  about  28°C;  the  minimum  mean,  about  22°C. 
Maximum  temperatures  of  higher  than  32  °C,  however,  are  com- 
mon and,  just  before  the  start  of  the  rainy  season,  they  may  rise 
to  more  than  38°C.  Minimum  temperatures  rarely  fall  below 
10°C.  January  is  the  coldest  month,  and  April  is  the  warmest. 
Typhoons — tropical  cyclones — that  often  devastate  coastal  Viet- 
nam rarely  cause  damage  in  Cambodia  (see  fig.  5). 

The  total  annual  rainfall  average  is  between  100  and  150  cen- 
timeters, and  the  heaviest  amounts  fall  in  the  southeast.  Rainfall 
from  April  to  September  in  the  Tonle  Sap  Basin-Mekong  Lowlands 
area  averages  130  to  190  centimeters  annually,  but  the  amount 
varies  considerably  from  year  to  year.  Rainfall  around  the  basin 
increases  with  elevation.  It  is  heaviest  in  the  mountains  along  the 
coast  in  the  southwest,  which  receive  from  250  to  more  than  500 
centimeters  of  precipitation  annually  as  the  southwest  monsoon 
reaches  the  coast.  This  area  of  greatest  rainfall,  however,  drains 
mostly  to  the  sea;  only  a  small  quantity  goes  into  the  rivers  flow- 
ing into  the  basin.  The  relative  humidity  is  high  at  night  through- 
out the  year;  usually  it  exceeds  90  percent.  During  the  daytime 
in  the  dry  season,  humidity  averages  about  50  percent  or  slightly 
lower,  but  it  may  remain  about  60  percent  in  the  rainy  period. 

Drainage 

Except  for  the  smaller  rivers  in  the  southeast,  most  of  the  major 
rivers  and  river  systems  in  Cambodia  drain  into  the  Tonle  Sap  or 
into  the  Mekong  River.  The  Cardamom  Mountains  and  Elephant 
Range  form  a  separate  drainage  divide.  To  the  east  the  rivers  flow 
into  the  Tonle  Sap,  while  on  the  west  they  flow  into  the  Gulf  of 
Thailand.  Toward  the  southern  end  of  the  Elephant  Mountains, 
however,  because  of  the  topography,  some  small  rivers  flow  south- 
ward on  the  eastern  side  of  the  divide. 

The  Mekong  River  in  Cambodia  flows  southward  from  the 
Cambodia-Laos  border  to  a  point  below  Kracheh  city,  where  it 
turns  west  for  about  50  kilometers  and  then  turns  southwest  to 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Phnom  Penh.  Extensive  rapids  run  above  Kracheh  city.  From  Kam- 
pong  Cham  the  gradient  slopes  very  gently,  and  inundation  of  areas 
along  the  river  occurs  at  flood  stage — June  through  November — 
through  breaks  in  the  natural  levees  that  have  built  up  along  its 
course.  At  Phnom  Penh  four  major  water  courses  meet  at  a  point 
called  the  Chattomukh  (Four  Faces).  The  Mekong  River  flows  in 
from  the  northeast  and  the  Tonle  Sab — a  river  emanating  from 
the  Tonle  Sap — flows  in  from  the  northwest.  They  divide  into  two 
parallel  channels,  the  Mekong  River  proper  and  the  Basak  River, 
and  flow  independently  through  the  delta  areas  of  Cambodia  and 
Vietnam  to  the  South  China  Sea. 

The  flow  of  water  into  the  Tonle  Sab  is  seasonal.  In  September 
or  in  October,  the  flow  of  the  Mekong  River,  fed  by  monsoon  rains, 
increases  to  a  point  where  its  outlets  through  the  delta  cannot  handle 
the  enormous  volume  of  water.  At  this  point,  the  water  pushes 
northward  up  the  Tonle  Sab  and  empties  into  the  Tonle  Sap, 
thereby  increasing  the  size  of  the  lake  from  about  2,590  square 
kilometers  to  about  24,605  square  kilometers  at  the  height  of  the 
flooding  (see  fig.  6).  After  the  Mekong's  waters  crest — when  its 
downstream  channels  can  handle  the  volume  of  water — the  flow 
reverses,  and  water  flows  out  of  the  engorged  lake. 

As  the  level  of  the  Tonle  Sap  retreats,  it  deposits  a  new  layer 
of  sediment.  The  annual  flooding,  combined  with  poor  drainage 
immediately  around  the  lake,  transforms  the  surrounding  area  into 
marshlands  unusable  for  agricultural  purposes  during  the  dry  sea- 
son. The  sediment  deposited  into  the  lake  during  the  Mekong's 
flood  stage  appears  to  be  greater  than  the  quantity  carried  away 
later  by  the  Tonle  Sab  River.  Gradual  silting  of  the  lake  would 
seem  to  be  occurring;  during  low- water  level,  it  is  only  about  1.5 
meters  deep,  while  at  flood  stage  it  is  between  10  and  15  meters 
deep. 

Regional  Divisions 

Cambodia's  boundaries  in  1987  were  for  the  most  part  based 
upon  those  recognized  by  France  and  by  neighboring  countries  dur- 
ing the  colonial  period.  The  800-kilometer  boundary  with  Thailand, 
coincides  with  a  natural  feature,  the  watershed  of  the  Dangrek 
Mountains,  only  in  its  northern  sector.  The  541 -kilometer  border 
with  Laos  and  the  1,228-kilometer  border  with  Vietnam  result 
largely  from  French  administrative  decisions  and  do  not  follow 
major  natural  features.  Border  disputes  have  broken  out  in  the  past 
between  Cambodia  and  Thailand  as  well  as  between,  Cambodia 
and  Vietnam. 


81 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


106° 


National  Capital 


0  50  100  KILOMETERS 
I  i  i  L_ 


50 


n 

100  MILES 


Figures  represent  annual  rainfall  in  centimeters. 


106° 


Figure  5.  Annual  Rainfall  and  Monsoon  Airflow 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Population 

Between  1874  and  1921,  the  total  population  increased  from 
about  946,000  to  2.4  million.  By  1950  it  had  increased  to  between 
3,710,107  and  4,073,967,  and  in  1962  it  had  reached  5.7  million. 
From  the  1960s  until  1975,  the  population  of  Cambodia  increased 
by  about  2.2  percent  yearly,  the  lowest  increase  in  Southeast  Asia. 
By  1975  when  the  Khmer  Rouge  took  power,  it  was  estimated  at 
7.3  million.  Of  this  total  an  estimated  one  million  to  two  million 
reportedly  died  between  1975  and  1978.  In  1981  the  PRK  gave 
the  official  population  figure  as  nearly  6.7  million,  although  approxi- 
mately 6.3  million  to  6.4  million  is  probably  a  more  accurate  one. 
The  average  annual  rate  of  population  growth  from  1978  to  1985 
was  2.3  percent  (see  table  2,  Appendix  A).  Life  expectancy  at  birth 
was  44.2  years  for  males  and  43.3  years  for  females  in  1959.  By 
1970  life  expectancy  had  increased  by  about  2.5  years  since  1945. 
The  greater  longevity  for  females  apparentiy  reflected  improved 
health  practices  during  maternity  and  childbirth. 

In  1959  about  45  percent  of  the  population  was  under  15  years 
of  age;  by  1962  this  figure  had  increased  slightly  to  46  percent. 
In  1962  an  estimated  52  percent  of  the  population  was  between 
15  and  64  years  of  age,  while  2  percent  was  older  than  65.  The 
percentage  of  males  and  females  in  the  three  groups  was  almost 
the  same. 

The  population  of  Cambodia  has  been  fairly  homogeneous.  In 
1962  about  80  percent  of  the  population  was  ethnic  Khmer.  The 
remaining  20  percent  included  Chinese,  Vietnamese,  Cham, 
Khmer  Loeu  (see  Appendix  B),  Europeans.  By  1981  as  a  result 
of  the  Vietnamese  repatriation  in  1970  to  1971  and  the  deaths  and 
emigration  of  large  numbers  of  Cham  and  Chinese,  ethnic  Khmer 
accounted  for  about  90  percent  or  more  of  the  population. 

Dynamics 

Rapid  and  drastic  population  movements  occurred  in  the  early 
1970s,  when  large  numbers  of  rural  Cambodians  fled  to  the  cities 
to  escape  the  fighting  in  the  countryside,  and  between  1975  and 
1979,  when  the  government  forcibly  relocated  urban  dwellers  to 
rural  sites  throughout  the  country.  Large  scale  emigration  also 
occurred  between  1975  and  1979. 

Distribution 

Population  density  varies  throughout  Cambodia.  The  national 
average  in  1972  was  about  22  persons  per  square  kilometer.  At 
one  end  of  the  density  scale  were  the  provinces  around  Phnom  Penh, 


83 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Batdambang; 


PHNOM  PENH 


Kampong  Saom 


"9 


Gulf  of  Thailand 


 International  boundary 

®     National  capital 
•     Populated  place 
Area  of  generalized 
flooding 
0    25  50  Kilometers 
6     "25     50  Miles 


V 


South 
China  Sea 


Boundary  representation  not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  6.  Annual  Flooding  Around  Tonle  Sap,  1985 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


where  the  number  of  inhabitants  per  square  kilometer  could  reach 
as  many  as  500,  but  more  generally  varied  between  200  and  500. 
At  the  lower  end  of  the  scale  were  outlying  provinces,  like 
Rotanokiri  (Ratanakiri)  and  Mondol  Kiri  (Mondolkiri)  in  the  north- 
east and  Kaoh  Kong  in  the  southwest,  where  the  density  was  as 
low  as  zero  to  five  persons  per  square  kilometer.  For  almost  two- 
thirds  of  the  country,  the  density  was  approximately  five  persons 
per  square  kilometer  (see  table  3,  Appendix  A). 

Ethnic  Khmer  were  concentrated  in  central  and  in  southeastern 
Cambodia.  The  Cham  lived  in  their  own  towns  and  sections  in 
larger  cities.  The  Chinese  lived  mainly  in  urban  centers;  in  Phnom 
Penh  they  were  concentrated  around  the  markets.  The  Vietnamese 
tended  to  live  in  their  own  villages  and  in  certain  sections  of  Phnom 
Penh.  The  Khmer  Loeu  were  concentrated  in  the  northeastern  and 
southwestern  areas  of  Cambodia. 

Migration  and  Refugees 

Over  the  decades,  some  movement  of  the  rural  population  in 
Cambodia — either  to  urban  areas  in  quest  of  employment  or  to 
other  villages  in  search  of  more  favorable  agricultural  sites — has 
been  customary.  Many  highland  tribal  groups  practice  slash-and- 
burn  agriculture  that  requires  movement  to  a  new  area  once  the 
soil  is  exhausted  in  a  given  location.  Warfare  in  the  early  1970s 
drove  large  numbers  of  rural  people  to  the  cities  in  search  of  safety. 
The  population  of  Phnom  Penh,  for  example,  increased  from 
393,995  in  1962  to  about  1.2  miUion  in  1971,  but  had  decreased 
to  about  500,000  by  1985.  With  their  takeover  in  April  1975,  the 
Khmer  Rouge  forced  most  of  the  population  out  of  Phnom  Penh 
into  the  countryside,  where  large  numbers  either  died  because  of 
hardship  or  were  executed.  Many  such  population  movements  were 
forced  upon  the  populace  under  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime.  Many 
Cambodians  who  had  left  the  country  to  study  abroad  became  de 
facto  emigrants  when  the  communists  took  over.  Thousands  more 
fled  into  neighboring  Thailand  and  Vietnam  in  1975  and  at  the 
time  of  the  Vietnamese  invasion  in  late  1978.  Cham,  Vietnamese, 
and  Chinese  communities  alike  were  persecuted,  and  their  mem- 
bers were  killed,  under  the  Khmer  Rouge.  Forced  repatriation  in 
1970  and  deaths  during  the  Khmer  Rouge  era  reduced  the  Viet- 
namese population  in  Cambodia  from  between  250,000  and  300,000 
in  1969  to  a  reported  56,000  in  1984.  Postwar  emigration  of  Viet- 
namese civilians  to  Cambodia  remained  a  subject  of  controversy. 
Some  social  scientists  believed  that  the  number  of  Vietnamese  in 
Cambodia  in  1988  had  reached  at  least  the  prewar  level,  and, 


85 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

indeed,  many  Khmer  feared  that  even  more  Vietnamese  immi- 
grants would  inundate  their  population. 

During  the  Khmer  Rouge  era,  about  50,000  Cambodians  fled 
to  Thailand,  and  an  estimated  150,000  fled  to  Vietnam.  As  soon 
as  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime  began  to  crumble  under  the  onslaught 
of  the  Vietnamese  in  late  1978,  a  massive  exodus  of  Cambodians 
began.  About  630,000 — braving  hostile  fire,  minefields,  bandits, 
and  border  guards — left  the  country  between  1979  and  1981.  In 
subsequent  years,  about  208,000  resettled  in  other  countries;  these 
included  136,000  in  the  United  States,  32,000  in  France,  and  13,000 
each  in  Australia  and  in  Canada. 

In  late  1987,  about  265,000  Cambodians— about  150,000  of  them 
below  the  age  of  15 — remained  in  Thailand.  The  Khmer  refugees 
were  supported  by  the  United  Nations  Border  Relief  Operation 
(which  assumed  the  task  from  the  United  Nations  High  Commis- 
sioner for  Refugees  in  the  early  1980s)  and  private  agencies  at  an 
annual  cost  of  US$36  million  in  1986.  The  refugees  were  grouped 
in  nine  camps  on  the  Thailand  side  of  that  country's  common 
border  with  Cambodia.  Of  the  nine  installations,  the  most  promi- 
nent was  Khao-I-Dang,  located  near  Aranyaprathet,  Prachin  Buri 
Province,  Thailand.  It  was  controlled  by  the  Thai  military,  and 
its  inhabitants  were  the  only  ones  to  be  regarded  legally  as  refu- 
gees by  the  Thai  government.  In  1987  Khao-I-Dang  had  a  popu- 
lation of  about  21,000  to  25,000  (down  from  a  peak  of  130,000 
at  its  founding  in  1979),  of  whom  about  12,000  to  15,000  were 
eligible  for  resettlement. 

The  other  eight  camps  were  under  the  control  of  the  three  Khmer 
resistance  factions  (see  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea, ch.  4;  Coalition  Government  Resistance  Forces,  ch.  5). 
These  camps  were  considered  reception  centers  rather  than  bona 
fide  refugee  facilities  by  the  Thai  government,  and  their  inmates, 
unlike  the  residents  of  Khao-I-Dang,  were  considered  displaced 
persons  rather  than  refugees.  Of  these  eight  installations,  five  were 
controlled  by  the  Khmer  Rouge;  two,  by  the  Khmer  People's 
National  Liberation  Front  (KPNLF — see  Appendix  B);  and  one, 
by  the  Sihanouk  National  Army  (Armee  Nationale  Sihanoukiste — 
ANS — see  Appendix  B).  Khmer  insurgents  freely  visited  the  camps 
controlled  by  their  own  resistance  factions  and  used  them  as  rest 
and  recuperation  centers. 

The  Khmer  Rouge  camps  sheltered  between  50,000  and  60,000 
inhabitants.  Access  to  them  was  granted  grudgingly,  if  at  all,  even 
to  United  Nations  officials.  Occasional  visiting  journalists  reported 
in  the  1980s  that  an  atmosphere  of  repression  and  fear  prevailed 
at  these  facilities.  The  largest  Khmer  Rouge  installation,  located 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


on  the  southwestern  part  of  the  border  between  Cambodia  and 
Thailand,  was  known  as  Site  8  and  held  about  30,000  persons. 
Smaller  installations,  inhabited  by  20,000  or  more  people  altogether, 
were  reported  at  Na  Trao  and  Huay  Chan,  in  Sisaket  Province, 
Thailand,  and  at  the  seldom- visited  encampments  of  Borai  and  in 
Ta  Luen,  Trat  Province,  Thailand. 

The  KPNLF  controlled  two  camps  containing  a  total  of  about 
160,000  persons.  The  principal  installation  was  Site  2,  with  a  popu- 
lation of  between  145,000  and  150,000  and  an  environment  noted 
for  its  rampant  lawlessness.  Site  2  was  located  in  the  vicinity  of 
Ta  Phraya,  Prachin  Buri  Province,  Thailand,  and,  at  one  time  in 
the  early  1980s,  held  the  largest  concentration  Cambodians  out- 
side of  Phnom  Penh. 

The  lone  camp  controlled  by  the  ANS  was  Site  B,  also  known 
as  "Green  Hill,"  which  was  located  about  50  kilometers  north  of 
Ta  Phraya  and  had  a  population  of  between  40,000  and  50,000. 
Site  B  was  considered  by  observers  to  be  the  most  orderly  and  well- 
managed  of  the  refugee  camps;  it  offered  more  living  space,  in- 
cluding room  for  personal  gardens,  than  did  the  others. 

Social  Structure  and  Organization 

The  ethnic  groups  that  constitute  Cambodian  society  possess  a 
number  of  economic  and  demographic  commonalities — for  exam- 
ple, Chinese  merchants  play  middlemen  in  many  economic  cycles, 
but  they  also  preserve  differences  in  their  social  and  cultural  insti- 
tutions. The  major  differences  among  these  groups  lie  in  social 
organization,  language,  and  religion.  The  majority  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Cambodia  are  settled  in  fairly  permanent  villages  near  the 
major  bodies  of  water  in  the  Tonle  Sap  Basin-Mekong  Lowlands 
region.  The  contemporary  locations  of  major  Khmer  population 
centers  date  back  to  antiquity  according  to  geographer  Jacques 
Nepote.  He  points  out  that  contemporary  Khmer  Krom  (see 
Appendix  B)  settlements  are  located  in  the  same  areas  as  the  an- 
cient site  of  Funan,  and  that  the  Khmer  setdements  extending  from 
Phnom  Penh  in  a  southeastern  direction  are  located  where  pre- 
Angkorian  archaeological  sites  are  clustered  (see  Prehistory  and 
Early  Kingdoms,  ch.  1).  The  Khmer  Loeu  live  in  widely  scattered 
villages  that  are  abandoned  when  the  cultivated  land  in  the  vicin- 
ity is  exhausted. 

The  permanently  settled  Khmer  and  Cham  villages  usually  are 
located  on  or  near  the  banks  of  a  river  or  other  bodies  of  water. 
Cham  villages  usually  are  made  up  almost  entirely  of  Cham,  but 
Khmer  villages,  especially  in  central  and  in  southeastern  Cambo- 
dia, typically  include  sizable  Chinese  communities.  In  his  study 


87 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  coastal  Chinese  in  Kampot  Province  and  in  Kaoh  Kong 
Province,  French  geographer  Roland  Pourtier  points  out  that  the 
Chinese  dwellings  and  shops — usually  in  the  same  structures — 
are  located  at  the  center  of  the  town  or  village,  while  the  Khmer 
houses  are  scattered  at  some  distance  from  the  center.  He  also  finds 
that  there  are  some  villages  made  up  almost  entirely  of  Chinese. 

The  Khmer 

Household  and  Family  Structure 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  nuclear  family,  consisting  of  a  husband 
and  a  wife  and  their  unmarried  children,  probably  continued  to 
be  the  most  important  kin  group  within  Khmer  society.  The  fam- 
ily is  the  major  unit  of  both  production  and  consumption.  Within 
this  unit  are  the  strongest  emotional  ties,  the  assurance  of  aid  in 
the  event  of  trouble,  economic  cooperation  in  labor,  sharing  of 
produce  and  income,  and  contribution  as  a  unit  to  ceremonial 
obligations.  A  larger  grouping,  the  personal  kindred  that  includes 
a  nuclear  family  with  the  children,  grandchildren,  grandparents, 
uncles,  aunts,  first  cousins,  nephews,  and  nieces,  may  be  included 
in  the  household.  Family  organization  is  weak,  and  ties  between 
related  families  beyond  the  kindred  are  loosely  defined  at  best.  There 
is  no  tradition  of  family  names,  although  the  French  tried  to  legis- 
late their  use  in  the  early  twentieth  century.  Most  Khmer  geneal- 
ogies extend  back  only  two  or  three  generations,  which  contrasts 
with  the  veneration  of  ancestors  by  the  Vietnamese  and  by  the 
Chinese.  Noble  families  and  royal  families,  some  of  which  can  trace 
their  descent  for  several  generations,  are  exceptions. 

The  individual  Khmer  is  surrounded  by  a  small  inner  circle  of 
family  and  friends  who  constitute  his  or  her  closest  associates,  those 
he  would  approach  first  for  help.  In  rural  communities,  neigh- 
bors— who  are  often  also  kin — may  be  important,  too,  and  much 
of  housebuilding  and  other  heavy  labor  intensive  tasks  are  per- 
formed by  groups  of  neighbors.  Beyond  this  close  circle  are  more 
distant  relatives  and  casual  friends.  In  rural  Cambodia,  the  stron- 
gest ties  a  Khmer  may  develop — besides  those  to  the  nuclear  family 
and  to  close  friends — are  those  to  other  members  of  the  local  com- 
munity. A  strong  feeling  of  pride — for  the  village,  for  the  district, 
and  province — usually  characterizes  Cambodian  community  life. 
There  is  much  sharing  of  religious  life  through  the  local  Buddhist 
temple,  and  there  are  many  cross-cutting  kin  relations  within  the 
community.  Formerly,  the  Buddhist  priesthood,  the  national  armed 
forces,  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  the  civil  service  all  served  to  con- 
nect the  Khmer  to  the  wider  national  community.  The  priesthood 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


served  only  males,  however,  while  membership  in  some  compo- 
nents of  the  armed  forces  and  in  the  civil  service  was  open  to  women 
as  well. 

Two  fictive  relationships  in  Cambodia  transcend  kinship  bound- 
aries and  serve  to  strengthen  interpersonal  and  interfamily  ties. 
A  Khmer  may  establish  a  fictive  child-parent  or  sibling  relation- 
ship called  thoa  (roughly  translating  as  adoptive  parent  or  sibling). 
The  person  desiring  to  establish  the  thoa  relationship  will  ask  the 
other  person  for  permission  to  enter  into  the  relationship.  The  thoa 
relationship  may  become  as  close  as  the  participants  desire.  The 
second  fictive  relationship  is  that  of  kloeu  (close  male  friend).  This 
is  similar,  in  many  ways,  to  becoming  a  blood  brother.  A  person 
from  one  place  may  ask  a  go-between  in  another  place  to  help  him 
establish  a  kloeu  relationship  with  someone  in  that  place.  Once  the 
participants  agree,  a  ceremony  is  held  that  includes  ritual  drink- 
ing of  water  into  which  small  amounts  of  the  participants'  blood 
have  been  mixed  and  bullets  and  knives  have  been  dipped;  pray- 
ers are  also  recited  by  an  achar  (or  ceremonial  leader)  before  wit- 
nesses. The  kloeu  relationship  is  much  stronger  than  the  thoa.  One 
kloeu  will  use  the  same  kinship  terms  when  addressing  his  kloeu 's 
parents  and  siblings  as  he  would  when  addressing  his  own.  The 
two  friends  can  call  upon  each  other  for  any  kind  of  help  at  any 
time.  The  kloeu  relationship  apparently  is  limited  to  some  rural  parts 
of  Cambodia  and  to  Khmer-speaking  areas  in  Thailand.  As  of  the 
late  1980s,  it  may  have  become  obsolete.  The  female  equivalent 
of  kloeu  is  mreak. 

Legally,  the  husband  is  the  head  of  the  Khmer  family,  but  the 
wife  has  considerable  authority,  especially  in  family  economics.  The 
husband  is  responsible  for  providing  shelter  and  food  for  his  fam- 
ily; the  wife  is  generally  in  charge  of  the  family  budget,  and  she 
serves  as  the  major  ethical  and  religious  model  for  the  children, 
especially  the  daughters.  In  rural  areas,  the  male  is  mainly  respon- 
sible for  such  activities  as  plowing  and  harrowing  the  rice  paddies, 
threshing  rice,  collecting  sugar  palm  juice,  caring  for  cattle,  car- 
pentry, and  buying  and  selling  cows  and  chickens.  Women  are 
mainly  responsible  for  pulling  and  transplanting  rice  seedlings,  har- 
vesting and  winnowing  rice,  tending  gardens,  making  sugar,  weav- 
ing, and  caring  for  the  household  money.  Both  males  and  females 
may  work  at  preparing  the  rice  paddies  for  planting,  tending  the 
paddies,  and  buying  and  selling  land. 

Ownership  of  property  among  the  rural  Khmer  was  vested  in 
the  nuclear  family.  Descent  and  inheritance  is  bilateral.  Legal  chil- 
dren might  inherit  equally  from  their  parents.  The  division  of 
property  was  theoretically  equal  among  siblings,  but  in  practice 


89 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  oldest  child  might  inherit  more.  Each  of  the  spouses  might  bring 
inherited  land  into  the  family,  and  the  family  might  acquire  joint 
land  during  the  married  life  of  the  couple.  Each  spouse  was  free 
to  dispose  of  his  or  her  land  as  he  or  she  chose.  A  will  was  usually 
oral,  although  a  written  one  was  preferred. 

Private  ownership  of  land  was  abolished  by  the  Khmer  Rouge 
in  the  1970s.  Such  ownership  is  also  not  recognized  by  the  PRK 
government,  which  for  example,  refused  to  support  former  owners 
when  they  returned  and  found  others  living  on  and  working  their 
land.  Some  peasants  were  able  to  remain  on  their  own  land  dur- 
ing the  Khmer  Rouge  era,  however,  and  generally  they  were  al- 
lowed to  continue  to  work  the  land  as  if  it  were  their  own  property. 
In  1987  the  future  of  private  ownership  of  land  remained  in  doubt. 
According  to  Cambodia. scholar  Michael  Vickery,  the  PRK  govern- 
ment planned  to  collectivize  in  three  stages.  The  first  stage  involved 
allotting  land  to  families  at  the  beginning  of  the  season  and  allow- 
ing the  cultivators  to  keep  the  harvest.  The  second  stage  involved 
allotting  land  to  each  family  according  to  the  number  of  members. 
The  families  in  the  interfamily  units  known  as  solidarity  groups 
(krom  samaki)  were  to  work  to  prepare  the  fields,  but  subsequently 
each  family  was  responsible  for  the  upkeep  of  its  own  parcel  of  land. 
At  this  stage,  each  family  could  dispose  of  its  own  produce.  In  the 
final  stage,  all  labor  was  to  be  performed  in  common,  and  at  the 
end  of  the  season  any  remuneration  was  distributed  according  to 
a  work  point  system.  Livestock  at  this  stage  would  still  belong  to 
the  family.  By  1984  the  first  stage  groups  accounted  for  35  per- 
cent of  the  rural  population,  but  the  third  level  accounted  for  only 
10  percent  of  the  farms  (see  Agriculture,  ch.  3). 

Housing 

The  nuclear  family,  in  rural  Cambodia,  typically  lives  in  a  rect- 
angular house  that  may  vary  in  size  from  four  by  six  meters  to 
six  by  ten  meters.  It  is  constructed  of  a  wooden  frame  with  gabled 
thatch  roof  and  walls  of  woven  bamboo.  Khmer  houses  typically 
are  raised  on  stilts  as  much  as  three  meters  for  protection  from  an- 
nual floods.  Two  ladders  or  wooden  staircases  provide  access  to 
the  house.  The  steep  thatch  roof  overhanging  the  house  walls  pro- 
tects the  interior  from  rain.  Typically  a  house  contains  three  rooms 
separated  by  partitions  of  woven  bamboo.  The  front  room  serves 
as  a  living  room  used  to  receive  visitors,  the  next  room  is  the  par- 
ents' bedroom,  and  the  third  is  for  unmarried  daughters.  Sons  sleep 
anywhere  they  can  find  space.  Family  members  and  neighbors  work 
together  to  build  the  house,  and  a  house-raising  ceremony  is  held 
upon  its  completion.  The  houses  of  poorer  persons  may  contain 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


only  a  single  large  room.  Food  is  prepared  in  a  separate  kitchen 
located  near  the  house  but  usually  behind  it.  Toilet  facilities  con- 
sist of  simple  pits  in  the  ground,  located  away  from  the  house,  that 
are  covered  up  when  filled.  Any  livestock  is  kept  below  the  house. 

Chinese  and  Vietnamese  houses  in  Cambodian  town  and  vil- 
lages typically  are  built  directly  on  the  ground  and  have  earthen, 
cement,  or  tile  floors,  depending  upon  the  economic  status  of  the 
owner.  Urban  housing  and  commercial  buildings  may  be  of  brick, 
masonry,  or  wood. 

Diet 

Dietary  habits  appear  to  be  basically  the  same  among  the  Khmer 
and  other  ethnic  groups,  although  the  Muslim  Cham  do  not  eat 
pork.  The  basic  foods  are  rice — in  several  varieties,  fish,  and  vegeta- 
bles, especially  trakuon  (water  convolvulus).  Rice  may  be  less 
thoroughly  milled  than  it  is  in  many  other  rice-eating  countries, 
and  consequently  it  contains  more  vitamins  and  roughage.  The 
average  rice  consumption  per  person  per  day  before  1970  was  almost 
one-half  kilogram.  Fermented  fish  in  the  form  of  sauce  or  of  paste 
are  important  protein  supplements  to  the  diet.  Hot  peppers,  lemon 
grass,  mint,  and  ginger  add  flavor  to  many  Khmer  dishes;  sugar 
is  added  to  many  foods.  Several  kinds  of  noodles  are  eaten.  The 
basic  diet  is  supplemented  by  vegetables  and  by  fruits — bananas, 
mangoes,  papayas,  rambutan,  and  palm  fruit — both  wild  and  cul- 
tivated, which  grow  abundandy  throughout  the  country.  Beef,  pork, 
poultry,  and  eggs  are  added  to  meals  on  special  occasions,  or,  if 
the  family  can  afford  it,  daily.  In  the  cities,  the  diet  has  been  af- 
fected by  many  Western  items  of  food.  French,  Chinese,  Viet- 
namese, and  Indian  cuisine  were  available  in  Phnom  Penh  in 
pre-Khmer  Rouge  days. 

Rural  Khmer  typically  eat  several  times  a  day;  the  first  meal 
consists  of  a  piece  of  fruit  or  cake,  which  workers  eat  after  arriving 
at  the  fields.  The  first  full  meal  is  at  about  9:00  or  10:00  in  the 
morning;  it  is  prepared  by  the  wife  or  daughter  and  brought  to 
the  man  in  the  field.  Workers  eat  a  large  meal  at  about  noon  in 
the  field  and  then  have  supper  with  their  families  after  returning 
home  around  5:00  P.M. 

Before  the  early  1970s,  the  Cambodian  people  produced  a  food 
supply  that  provided  an  adequate  diet,  although  children  gave  evi- 
dence of  caloric  underconsumption  and  of  a  deficiency  in  B  vita- 
mins. During  the  Khmer  Rouge  era,  malnutrition  increased, 
especially  among  the  people  who  were  identified  as  "new  people" 
by  the  authorities  (see  Society  under  the  Angkar,  ch.  1).  Collec- 
tive meals  were  introduced  by  1977.  Food  rations  for  the  new  people 


91 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

were  meager.  Refugees'  statements  contain  the  following  descrip- 
tions: '  1  [daily  rations  of]  a  tin  of  boiled  rice  a  day  mixed  with  .  .  . 
sauce";  "we  ate  twice  a  day,  boiled  soup  and  rice  only";  "one 
tin  of  rice  a  day  shared  between  three  people.  Never  any  meat  or 
fruit";  "Ration  was  two  tins  of  rice  between  four  persons  per  day 
with  fish  sauce. "  People  were  reduced  to  eating  anything  they  could 
find — insects,  small  mammals,  arachnids,  crabs,  and  plants. 

The  food  situation  improved  under  the  PRK,  although  in  the 
regime's  early  years  there  were  still  serious  food  shortages.  Inter- 
national food  donations  improved  the  situation  somewhat.  In  1980 
monthly  rice  rations  distributed  by  the  government  averaged  only 
one  to  two  kilograms  per  person.  People  supplemented  the  ration 
by  growing  secondary  crops  such  as  corn  and  potatoes,  by  fishing, 
by  gathering  fruit  and  vegetables,  and  by  collecting  crabs  and  other 
edible  animals.  A  1984  estimate  reported  that  as  many  as  50  per- 
cent of  all  young  people  in  Cambodia  were  undernourished. 

Dress 

The  traditional  Khmer  costume  consisted  of  a  shirt  or  blouse 
and  a  skirt-like  lower  garment — sampot  for  women  and  sarong  for 
men,  a  tube- shaped  garment  about  a  meter  wide  and  as  much  as 
three  meters  in  circumference.  Made  of  cotton  or  of  silk  in  many 
different  styles  and  patterns,  it  is  pulled  on  over  the  legs  and  fastened 
around  the  waist.  On  ceremonial  occasions,  elegant  sampot  and 
sarong,  embroidered  with  gold  or  silver  threads,  may  be  worn  with 
a  long  piece  of  material  gathered  at  the  waist,  passed  between  the 
legs,  and  tucked  into  the  waistband  in  back.  Members  of  the  urban 
middle  and  upper  classes  may  wear  Western- style  clothing  at  work 
and  more  traditional  clothing  at  home. 

At  home  both  sexes  wear  the  sampot  and  the  sarong.  In  rural 
areas,  working  men  and  women  may  wear  loose-fitting  pants  and 
shirts  or  blouses.  Many  men  wear  Western- style  pants  or  shorts. 
A  third  essential  part  of  Khmer  dress  is  the  krama,  or  long  scarf, 
that  is  worn  around  the  neck,  over  the  shoulders,  or  wrapped 
turban- style  around  the  head.  School  children  wear  Western- style 
clothing  to  school.  The  boys  wear  shirts  and  shorts;  the  girls  wear 
skirts  and  blouses. 

The  Khmer  Rouge  were  noted  for  their  unisex  black  "pajamas." 
Their  typical  garb  was  the  peasant  outfit  of  collarless  black  shirt — 
baggy  trousers  and  checkered  krama  (a  scarf  knotted  loosely  about 
the  neck).  French  anthropologist  Marie  Alexandrine  Martin  re- 
ported that  the  wearing  of  brightly  colored  clothing  was  prohibited 
under  the  Khmer  Rouge  and  that  women,  young  and  old,  wore 
black,  dark  blue,  or  maroon  sampot  with  short-sleeved  plain  blouses. 


92 


93 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Women  were  forbidden  to  wear  Western-style  pants  at  any  time. 
The  conical  hat  characteristic  of  the  Vietnamese  has  been  adopted 
to  a  certain  extent  by  Khmer  in  the  provinces  adjacent  to  Vietnam. 

Families 

The  birth  of  a  child  is  a  happy  event  for  the  family.  According 
to  traditional  beliefs,  however,  confinement  and  childbirth  expose 
the  family,  and  especially  the  mother  and  the  child  to  harm  from 
the  spirit  world.  A  woman  who  dies  in  childbirth — crosses  the  river 
(chhlong  tonle)  in  Khmer — is  believed  to  become  an  evil  spirit.  In 
traditional  Khmer  society,  a  pregnant  woman  respects  a  number 
of  food  taboos  and  avoids  certain  situations.  These  traditions  remain 
in  practice  in  rural  Cambodia,  but  they  have  become  weakened 
in  urban  areas. 

No  extensive  information  exists  on  birth  control  or  on  the  use 
of  contraceptives  in  Cambodia.  Before  the  Khmer  Rouge  takeover, 
no  organizations  in  Cambodia  were  known  to  be  concerned  with 
family  planning.  Traditional  Khmer  families  were  normally  smaller 
than  Chinese  or  Vietnamese  families;  the  desired  number  of  chil- 
dren was  five.  Reports  suggest  that  several  methods  of  contracep- 
tion are  currently  available  in  Cambodia  and  that  these  are  practiced 
in  the  PRK  (see  Public  Health,  this  ch.).  A  recent  study  of  Cam- 
bodian women  in  France  reported  that  91  percent  of  the  sample 
wished  to  use  some  method  of  birth  control  and  that  74  percent 
knew  of  at  least  one  method.  The  most  common  methods  used  in 
that  group  were  the  oral  contraceptive  pill  and  some  form  of  sterili- 
zation. It  is  not  known  to  what  extent  the  attitudes  of  this  group 
reflect  those  of  Cambodian  women  in  general. 

A  Cambodian  child  may  be  nursed  until  he  or  she  is  between 
two  and  four  years  of  age.  Up  to  the  age  of  three  or  four,  the  child 
is  given  considerable  physical  affection  and  freedom.  There  is  lit- 
tle corporal  punishment.  After  reaching  the  age  of  about  four,  chil- 
dren are  expected  to  feed  and  bathe  themselves  and  to  control  their 
bowel  functions.  Children  around  five  years  of  age  also  may  be 
expected  to  help  look  after  younger  siblings.  Children's  games  em- 
phasize socialization  or  skill  rather  than  winning  and  losing. 

Most  children  begin  school  when  they  are  seven  or  eight.  By 
the  time  they  reach  this  age,  they  are  familiar  with  the  society's 
norms  of  politeness,  obedience,  and  respect  toward  their  elders  and 
toward  Buddhist  monks.  The  father  at  this  time  begins  his  perma- 
nent retreat  into  a  relatively  remote,  authoritarian  role.  By  age  ten, 
a  girl  is  expected  to  help  her  mother  in  basic  household  tasks;  a 
boy  knows  how  to  care  for  the  family's  livestock  and  can  do  farm 
work  under  the  supervision  of  older  males. 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


In  precommunist  days,  parents  exerted  complete  authority  over 
their  children  until  the  children  were  married,  and  the  parents  con- 
tinued to  maintain  some  control  well  into  the  marriage.  Punish- 
ment was  meted  out  sparingly,  but  it  might  have  involved  physical 
contact.  Age  difference  was  strictly  recognized.  The  proper  polite 
vocabulary  was  used  in  the  precommunist  period,  and  special 
generational  terms  for  "you"  continued  to  be  used  in  the  late  1980s. 
Younger  speakers  had  to  show  respect  to  older  people,  including 
siblings,  even  if  their  ages  differed  by  only  a  few  minutes. 

Between  the  ages  of  seven  and  nineteen,  but  most  commonly 
between  the  ages  of  eleven  and  nineteen,  a  boy  may  become  a  tem- 
ple servant  and  go  on  to  serve  a  time  as  a  novice  monk.  Having 
a  son  chosen  for  such  a  position  is  a  great  honor  for  the  parents, 
and  earns  the  individual  son  much  merit  (see  Religion,  this  ch.). 

Formerly,  and  perhaps  still  in  some  rural  areas,  a  ceremony 
marked  the  entrance  of  a  girl  into  puberty.  Upon  the  onset  of  men- 
struation, a  girl  would  participate  in  a  ritual  called  chol  mlup  (enter- 
ing the  shadow).  Certain  foods  were  taboo  at  this  time,  and  she 
would  be  isolated  from  her  family  for  a  period  of  a  few  days  to 
six  months.  After  the  period  of  seclusion,  she  was  considered  mar- 
riageable. 

Adolescent  children  usually  play  with  members  of  the  same  sex. 
The  main  exception  to  this  occurs  during  festivals,  especially  hap- 
py ones  such  as  the  New  Year  Festival,  when  boys  and  girls  take 
part  in  group  games.  Young  people  then  have  the  opportunity  to 
begin  looking  for  future  mates.  Virginity  is  highly  valued  in  brides, 
and  premarital  sex  is  deplored.  The  girl  who  becomes  pregnant 
out  of  wedlock  brings  shame  to  her  family. 

The  choice  of  a  spouse  is  a  complex  one  for  the  young  male, 
and  it  may  involve  not  only  his  parents  and  his  friends,  as  well 
as  those  of  the  young  woman,  but  also  a  matchmaker.  A  young 
man  can  decide  on  a  likely  spouse  on  his  own  and  then  ask  his 
parents  to  arrange  the  marriage  negotiations,  or  the  young  per- 
son's parents  may  make  the  choice  of  spouse,  giving  the  child  lit- 
tle to  say  in  the  selection.  In  theory,  a  girl  may  veto  the  spouse 
her  parents  have  chosen. 

Courtship  patterns  differ  between  rural  and  urban  Khmer.  Atti- 
tudes in  the  larger  cities  have  been  influenced  by  Western  ideas 
of  romantic  love  that  do  not  apply  in  the  countryside.  A  man  usually 
marries  between  the  ages  of  nineteen  and  twenty-five,  a  girl  be- 
tween the  ages  of  sixteen  and  twenty-two.  Marriage  between  close 
blood  relatives  is  forbidden.  After  a  spouse  has  been  selected,  a 
go-between  meets  with  the  parents  and  broaches  the  subject  of  mar- 
riage. Then  each  family  investigates  the  other  to  make  sure  its  child 


95 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

is  marrying  into  a  good  family.  When  both  sides  agree  to  the  mar- 
riage and  presents  have  been  exchanged  and  accepted,  the  fami- 
lies consult  an  achar  to  set  the  wedding  date.  In  rural  areas,  there 
is  a  form  of  bride- service;  that  is,  the  young  man  may  take  a  vow 
to  serve  his  prospective  father-in-law  for  a  period  of  time. 

The  traditional  wedding  is  a  long  and  colorful  affair.  Formerly 
it  lasted  three  days,  but  in  the  1980s  it  more  commonly  lasted  a 
day  and  a  half.  The  ceremony  begins  in  the  morning  at  the  home 
of  the  bride  and  is  directed  by  the  achar.  Buddhist  priests  offer  a 
short  sermon  and  recite  prayers  of  blessing.  Parts  of  the  ceremony 
involve  ritual  hair  cutting,  tying  cotton  threads  soaked  in  holy  water 
around  the  bride's  and  groom's  wrists,  and  passing  a  candle  around 
a  circle  of  happily  married  and  respected  couples  to  bless  the  union. 
After  the  wedding,  a  banquet  is  held.  In  the  city,  the  banquet  is 
held  at  a  restaurant;  in  the  country,  it  is  held  in  a  temporary  shelter 
and  is  prepared  by  the  two  families.  Newlyweds  traditionally  move 
in  with  the  wife's  parents  and  may  live  with  them  up  to  a  year, 
until  they  can  build  a  new  house  nearby.  These  patterns  changed 
drastically  under  the  communists.  The  Khmer  Rouge  divided  fami- 
lies and  separated  the  men  from  the  women.  The  father,  mother, 
and  children  frequently  were  separated  for  many  months.  A  man 
and  woman  often  did  not  have  time  to  consummate  a  marriage, 
and  sexual  relations  were  limited  by  long  separations.  Extramari- 
tal relations  and  even  flirtations  between  young  people  were  heav- 
ily punished. 

Divorce  is  legal,  relatively  easy  to  obtain,  but  not  common. 
Divorced  persons  are  viewed  with  some  disapproval,  and  they  are 
not  invited  to  take  part  in  the  blessing  of  a  newlywed  couple.  Some 
of  the  grounds  for  divorce  are  incompatibility,  prolonged  absence 
without  good  reason,  abandonment  by  either  partner,  refusal  of 
the  husband  to  provide  for  the  family,  adultery,  immoral  conduct, 
and  refusal,  for  more  than  a  year,  to  permit  sexual  intercourse. 
A  magistrate  may  legalize  the  divorce.  Each  spouse  retains  whatever 
property  he  or  she  brought  into  the  marriage.  Property  acquired 
jointly  is  divided  equally.  Divorced  persons  may  remarry,  but  the 
woman  must  wait  ten  months.  Custody  of  minor  children  is  usually 
given  to  the  mother.  Both  parents  continue  to  have  an  obligation 
to  contribute  financially  toward  the  rearing  and  education  of  the 
child. 

In  theory  a  man  may  have  multiple  wives  if  he  can  afford  them, 
but  this  is  rare  in  practice;  the  first  wife  may  veto  the  taking  of 
a  second  wife.  Concubinage  also  exists,  although  it  is  more  fre- 
quent in  the  cities.  While  second  wives  have  certain  legal  rights, 
concubines  have  none. 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


As  the  married  couple  moves  through  life  they  have  children, 
nurture  and  train  them,  educate  them,  and  marry  them  off.  When 
they  become  too  old  to  support  themselves,  they  may  invite  the 
youngest  child's  family  to  move  in  and  to  take  over  running  the 
household.  At  this  stage  in  their  lives,  they  enjoy  a  position  of  high 
status,  they  help  care  for  grandchildren,  and  they  devote  more  time 
in  service  to  the  wat  (temple). 

Death  is  not  viewed  with  the  great  outpouring  of  grief  common 
to  Western  society;  it  is  viewed  as  the  end  of  one  life  and  as  the 
beginning  of  another  life  that  one  hopes  will  be  better.  Buddhist 
Khmer  usually  are  cremated,  and  their  ashes  are  deposited  in  a 
stupa  in  the  temple  compound.  A  corpse  is  washed,  dressed,  and 
placed  in  a  coffin,  which  may  be  decorated  with  flowers  and  with 
a  photograph  of  the  deceased.  White  pennant-shaped  flags,  called 
"white  crocodile  flags,"  outside  a  house  indicate  that  someone  in 
that  household  has  died.  A  funeral  procession  consisting  of  an  achar, 
Buddhist  monks,  members  of  the  family,  and  other  mourners  ac- 
companies the  coffin  to  the  crematorium.  The  spouse  and  the  chil- 
dren show  mourning  by  shaving  their  heads  and  by  wearing  white 
clothing.  Relics  such  as  teeth  or  pieces  of  bone  are  prized  by  the 
survivors,  and  they  are  often  worn  on  gold  chains  as  amulets. 

Social  Stratification  and  Social  Mobility 

Social  strata  in  precommunist  Cambodia  may  be  viewed  as  con- 
stituting a  spectrum,  with  an  elite  group  or  upper  class  at  one  end 
and  a  lower  class  consisting  of  rural  peasants  and  unskilled  urban 
workers  at  the  other  end.  The  elite  group  was  composed  of  high- 
ranking  government,  military,  and  religious  leaders,  characterized 
by  high  prestige,  wealth,  and  education  or  by  members  one  of  the 
royal  or  noble  families.  Each  one  of  the  subgroups  had  its  own 
internal  ranking  system.  Before  the  ouster  of  Sihanouk  in  1970, 
the  highest  ranks  of  the  elite  group  were  filled  largely  by  those  born 
into  them.  The  republican  regime  in  the  early  1970s  invalidated 
all  royal  and  noble  tides,  and  the  only  titles  of  social  significance 
legally  in  use  in  connection  with  the  elite  group  were  those  gained 
through  achievement.  Military  and  government  titles  tended  to 
replace  royal  and  noble  titles.  In  spite  of  the  legislated  loss  of  titles, 
however,  wide  public  recognition  of  the  royalty  and  the  nobility 
continued.  The  deferential  linguistic  usages  and  the  behavior  styles 
directed  toward  members  of  these  groups  persisted  through  the 
1970s  and,  to  a  limited  extent,  were  still  present  in  the  late  1980s. 

In  the  early  1970s,  the  senior  military  officers,  some  of  whom 
were  also  members  of  the  aristocracy,  replaced  the  hereditary 
aristocracy  as  the  most  influential  group  in  the  country.  To  some 


97 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

extent,  this  upper  stratum  of  the  upper  class  was  closed,  and  it  was 
extremely  difficult  to  move  into  it  and  to  attain  positions  of  high 
power.  The  closed  nature  of  the  group  frustrated  many  members 
of  the  small  intellectual  elite.  This  group,  positioned  at  the  lower 
end  of  the  elite  group,  consisted  of  civil  servants,  professional  peo- 
ple, university  students,  and  some  members  of  the  Buddhist  hier- 
archy. It  had  become  large  enough  to  be  politically  influential  by 
the  1970s,  for  example,  student  strikes  were  serious  enough  in  1972 
to  force  the  government  to  close  some  schools. 

Somewhere  in  the  middle  of  this  social  spectrum  was  a  small  mid- 
dle class,  which  included  both  Khmer  and  non-Khmer  of  medium 
prestige.  Members  of  this  class  included  businessmen,  white-collar 
workers,  teachers,  physicians,  most  of  the  Buddhist  clergy,  shop- 
keepers, clerks,  and  military  officers  of  lower  and  middle  rank. 
Many  Chinese,  Vietnamese,  and  members  of  other  ethnic  minori- 
ties belonged  to  the  middle  class.  The  Khmer  were  a  majority  only 
among  the  military  and  among  the  civil  servants. 

The  lower  class  consisted  of  rural  small  farmers,  fishermen,  crafts- 
men, and  blue-collar  urban  workers.  The  majority  of  Cambodi- 
ans belonged  to  this  group.  Most  of  the  members  of  the  lower  class 
were  Khmer,  but  other  ethnic  groups,  including  most  of  the  Cham, 
Khmer  Loeu,  some  Vietnamese,  and  a  few  Chinese,  were  included. 
This  class  was  virtually  isolated  from,  and  was  uninterested  in,  the 
activities  of  the  much  smaller  urban  middle  and  upper  classes. 

Within  the  lower  class,  fewer  status  distinctions  existed;  those 
that  did  depended  upon  attributes  such  as  age,  sex,  moral  behavior, 
and  religious  piety.  Traditional  Buddhist  values  were  important 
on  the  village  level.  Old  age  was  respected,  and  older  men  and 
women  received  deferential  treatment  in  terms  of  language  and 
behavior.  All  else  being  equal,  males  generally  were  accorded  a 
higher  social  status  than  females.  Good  character — honesty, 
generosity,  compassion,  avoidance  of  quarrels,  chastity,  warmth — 
and  personal  religious  piety  also  increased  status.  Generosity  toward 
others  and  to  the  wat  was  important.  Villagers  accorded  respect 
and  honor  to  those  whom  they  perceived  as  having  authority  or 
prestige.  Buddhist  monks  and  nuns,  teachers,  high-ranking  govern- 
ment officials,  and  members  of  the  hereditary  aristocracy  made  up 
this  category.  Persons  associated  with  those  who  possessed  pres- 
tige tended  to  derive  prestige  and  to  be  accorded  respect  therefrom. 

The  Khmer  language  reflects  a  somewhat  different  classification 
of  Khmer  society  based  on  a  more  traditional  model  and  charac- 
terized by  differing  linguistic  usages  (see  Languages,  this  ch.).  This 
classification  divided  Cambodian  society  into  three  broad  cate- 
gories: royalty  and  nobility,  clergy,  and  laity.  The  Khmer  language 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


had — and  to  a  lesser  extent  still  has — partially  different  lexicons 
for  each  of  these  groups.  For  example,  nham  (to  eat)  was  used  when 
speaking  of  oneself  or  to  those  on  a  lower  social  level;  pisa  (to  eat) 
was  used  when  speaking  politely  of  someone  else;  chhan  (to  eat)  was 
used  of  Buddhist  clergy,  and  saoy  (to  eat)  was  used  of  royalty.  The 
Khmer  Rouge  attempted  to  do  away  with  the  different  lexicons 
and  to  establish  a  single  one  for  all;  for  example,  they  tried  to  sub- 
stitute a  single,  rural  word,  hop  (to  eat),  for  all  of  the  above  words. 

Social  mobility  was  played  out  on  an  urban  stage.  There  was 
little  opportunity  among  the  majority  of  the  rural  Cambodians  to 
change  social  status;  this  absence  of  opportunity  was  a  reflection 
of  traditional  Buddhist  fatalism.  A  man  could  achieve  higher  sta- 
tus by  entering  the  monkhood  or  by  acquiring  an  education  and 
then  entering  the  military  or  the  civil  service.  Opportunities  in 
government  service,  especially  for  white-collar  positions,  were  highly 
prized  by  Cambodian  youths.  The  availability  of  such  positions 
did  not  keep  pace  with  the  number  of  educated  youths,  however, 
and  in  the  late  1960s  and  the  early  1970s  this  lag  began  to  cause 
widespread  dissatisfaction. 

The  Khmer  Rouge  characterized  Cambodians  as  being  in  one 
of  several  classes:  the  feudal  class  (members  of  the  royal  family  and 
high  government  or  military  officials);  the  capitalist  class  (business 
people);  the  petite  bourgeoisie  (civil  servants,  professionals,  small 
business  people,  teachers,  servants,  and  clerics);  peasant  class  (the 
rich,  the  mid-level,  and  the  poor,  based  on  whether  or  not  they 
could  hire  people  to  work  their  land  and  on  whether  or  not  they 
had  enough  food);  the  worker  class  (the  independent  worker,  the 
industrial  worker,  and  the  party  members);  and  the  "special" 
classes  (revolutionary  intellectuals,  military  and  police  officials,  and 
Buddhist  monks). 

Other  Ethnic  Groups 

The  Cham 

The  Cham  people  in  Cambodia  descend  from  refugees  of  the 
kingdom  of  Champa,  which  once  ruled  much  of  Vietnam  between 
Cao  Ha  in  the  north  and  Bien  Hoa  in  the  south.  In  1471  Champa 
was  conquered  joy  the  Vietnamese,  and  many  Cham  fled  to  Cam- 
bodia. Cham  scholar  Po  Dharma  points  out  that  the  Cham  have 
lived  in  Cambodia  since  at  least  1456.  They  settled  along  the  Tonle 
Sap  and  Mekong  rivers  and  in  Batdambang,  Pouthisat,  Takev, 
Kampot,  Kampong  Cham,  Kampong  Thum,  and  Kampong 
Chhnang  provinces.  At  some  time  before  the  seventeenth  century, 
the  Cambodian  Cham  and  some  of  those  in  adjacent  Vietnam 


99 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

converted  to  Islam,  probably  as  a  result  of  contacts  with  their  Malay 
kin  who  had  embraced  that  religion  centuries  earlier  (see  Religion, 
this  ch.). 

Friendly  relations  prevailed  between  the  Cham  and  the  Khmer 
for  centuries  even  though,  because  of  the  Cham  religion,  little  inter- 
marriage occurred.  Under  the  Khmer  Republic  (see  Appendix  B) 
of  1970  to  1975,  one  of  the  elite  military  units  was  made  up  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Cham  and  other  ethnic  minorities.  The  Khmer  Rouge 
tried,  without  much  success,  to  recruit  the  Cham  during  the  struggle 
with  the  Khmer  Republic.  The  Cham  were  singled  out  for  partic- 
ularly brutal  repression  under  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime,  and  large 
numbers  were  killed.  The  PRK  actively  courted  the  Cham,  and 
in  1987  a  Cham  was  a  member  of  the  party  Central  Committee 
and  minister  of  agriculture.  Cham  sources  estimate  that  in  the  1980, 
in  addition  to  the  Cham  in  Cambodia  and  in  Vietnam,  there  were 
3,000  Cham  in  Malaysia,  2,000  in  the  United  States,  1,000  in 
Western  Europe,  500  in  Canada,  and  several  hundred  in  Indonesia. 

Po  Dharma  divides  the  Cambodian  Cham  into  two  groups — 
the  orthodox  and  the  traditional — based  on  their  religious  prac- 
tices. The  orthodox  group,  which  makes  up  about  one-third  of  the 
total  number  of  Cham  in  the  country,  were  located  mainly  in  the 
Phnom  Penh-Odongk  area  and  in  the  provinces  of  Takev  and  Kam- 
pot.  The  traditional  Cham  were  scattered  throughout  the  midsec- 
tion of  the  country  in  the  provinces  of  Batdambang,  Kampong 
Thum,  Kampong  Cham,  and  Pouthisat. 

The  Cham  of  both  groups  typically  live  in  villages  inhabited  only 
by  other  Cham;  the  villages  may  be  along  the  shores  of  water 
courses,  or  they  may  be  inland.  The  Cham  refer  to  the  former  as 
play  krong  (river  villages)  and  to  the  latter  as  play  ngok  (upper  vil- 
lages). The  inhabitants  of  the  river  villages  engage  in  fishing,  in 
raising  rice,  and  in  growing  vegetables,  especially  onions.  They 
trade  fish  to  local  Khmer  for  rice.  The  women  in  these  villages  earn 
money  by  weaving.  The  Cham  who  live  inland  support  themselves 
by  various  means,  depending  on  the  village.  Some  villages  specialize 
in  metal  working;  others  raise  fruit  trees  or  vegetables.  The  Cham 
also  often  serve  as  butchers  of  catde  for  their  Khmer  Buddhist  neigh- 
bors and  are,  in  some  areas,  regarded  as  skillful  water  buffalo 
breeders. 

Cham  dress  is  distinctive.  The  main  item  of  clothing  for  both 
sexes  is  a  sarong-like  garment  called  a  batik,  which  is  worn  knot- 
ted at  the  waist.  Men  wear  shirts  over  the  batik,  and  women  wear 
close-fitting  blouses  that  are  open  at  the  throat  and  have  tight 
sleeves.  The  characteristic  headdress  is  a  turban  or  scarf. 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Cham  society  is  matriarchal  with  matrilineal  descent.  There  is 
some  trace  of  an  earlier  clan  system.  Parents  permit  their  daugh- 
ters a  considerable  amount  of  freedom  of  choice  in  marriage.  The 
parents  of  the  girl  usually  make  the  marriage  overtures  to  the  boy. 
A  Cham  marriage  involves  little  ceremony.  Among  the  Muslim 
Cham,  the  girl's  parents  ask  the  groom  if  he  accepts  their  daugh- 
ter in  marriage,  and  he  is  expected  to  answer  yes.  The  imam  acts 
as  a  witness.  This  simple  ceremony  is  followed  by  a  feast.  Resi- 
dence is  matrilocal;  the  young  man  goes  to  live  with  his  wife's 
family.  Females  inherit  the  family  property. 

The  Khmer  Loeu 

The  Khmer  Loeu  are  the  non-Khmer  highland  tribes  in  Cam- 
bodia. Although  the  origins  of  this  group  are  not  clear,  some  be- 
lieve that  the  Mon-Khmer- speaking  tribes  were  part  of  the  long 
migration  of  these  people  from  the  northwest.  The  Austronesian- 
speaking  groups,  Rade  and  Jarai,  apparently  came  to  coastal  Viet- 
nam and  then  moved  west,  forming  wedges  among  some  of  the 
Mon-Khmer  groups.  The  Khmer  Loeu  are  found  mainly  in  the 
northeastern  provinces  of  Rotanokiri,  Stoeng  Treng,  and  Mondol 
Kiri.  The  Cambodian  government  coined  the  word  Khmer  Loeu — 
literally  "Highland  Khmer" — in  the  1960s  in  order  to  create  a  feel- 
ing of  unity  between  the  highland  tribal  groups  and  the  ruling 
lowland  ethnic  Khmer.  Traditionally  the  Khmer  have  referred  to 
these  groups  as  phnong  and  samre,  both  of  which  have  pejorative 
meanings.  Some  of  the  highland  groups,  in  fact,  are  related  in  lan- 
guage to  the  Khmer,  but  others  are  from  a  very  different  linguis- 
tic and  cultural  background  (see  Languages,  this  ch.). 

Khmer  Loeu  form  the  majority  population  in  Rotanokiri  and 
Mondol  Kiri  provinces,  and  they  also  are  present  in  substantial 
numbers  in  Kracheh  and  Stoeng  Treng  provinces  (see  fig.  7).  Their 
total  population  in  1969  was  estimated  at  90,000  persons.  In  1971 
the  number  of  Khmer  Loeu  was  estimated  variously  between  40,000 
and  100,000  persons.  Population  figures  were  unavailable  in  1987, 
but  the  total  probably  was  nearly  100,000  persons. 

Most  Khmer  Loeu  live  in  scattered  temporary  villages  that  have 
only  a  few  hundred  inhabitants.  These  villages  usually  are  governed 
by  a  council  of  local  elders  or  by  a  village  headman. 

The  Khmer  Loeu  cultivate  a  wide  variety  of  plants,  but  the  main 
crop  is  dry  or  upland  rice  grown  by  the  slash-and-burn  method. 
Hunting,  fishing,  and  gathering  supplement  the  cultivated  vegetable 
foods  in  the  Khmer  Loeu  diet.  Houses  vary  from  huge  multifamily 
longhouses  to  small  single-family  structures.  They  may  be  built 
close  to  the  ground  or  on  stilts. 


101 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


CZH  Khmer 
Cham 
I* *  r\  Pearic  groups 
^  Kuy 

l-^-^l  Mon-Khmer  groups 
miHUU  Austronesian  groups 

0  25  50  Kilometers 
0       25      50  Miles 

i   ;  l 


Figure  7.  Ethno-Linquistic  Groups  of  Cambodia,  1983 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


During  the  period  of  the  French  Protectorate,  the  French  did 
not  interfere  in  the  affairs  of  the  Khmer  Loeu  (see  The  French  Pro- 
tectorate, ch.  1).  Reportedly,  French  army  commanders  considered 
the  Khmer  Loeu  as  an  excellent  source  of  personnel  for  army  out- 
posts, and  they  recruited  large  numbers  to  serve  with  the  French 
forces.  Many  Khmer  Loeu  continued  this  tradition  by  enlisting 
in  the  Cambodian  army. 

In  the  1960s,  the  Cambodian  government  carried  out  a  broad 
civic  action  program— for  which  the  army  had  responsibility — 
among  the  Khmer  Loeu  in  Mondol  Kiri,  Rotanokiri,  Stoeng  Treng, 
and  Kaoh  Kong  provinces.  The  goals  of  this  program  were  to  edu- 
cate the  Khmer  Loeu,  to  teach  them  Khmer,  and  eventually  to 
assimilate  them  into  the  mainstream  of  Cambodian  society.  There 
was  some  effort  at  resettlement;  in  other  cases,  civil  servants  went 
out  to  live  with  individual  Khmer  Loeu  groups  to  teach  their  mem- 
bers Khmer  ways.  Schools  were  provided  for  some  Khmer  Loeu 
communities,  and  in  each  large  village  a  resident  government 
representative  disseminated  information  and  encouraged  the  Khmer 
Loeu  to  learn  the  lowland  Khmer  way  of  life.  Civil  servants  sent 
to  work  among  the  Khmer  Loeu  often  viewed  the  assignment  as 
a  kind  of  punishment. 

In  the  late  1960s,  an  estimated  5,000  Khmer  Loeu  in  eastern 
Cambodia  rose  in  rebellion  against  the  government  and  demanded 
self-determination  and  independence.  The  government  press  re- 
ported that  local  leaders  loyal  to  the  government  had  been  as- 
sassinated. Following  the  rebellion,  the  hill  people's  widespread 
resentment  of  ethnic  Khmer  settlers  caused  them  to  refuse  to  cooper- 
ate with  the  Cambodian  army  in  its  suppression  of  rural  unrest. 
Both  the  Khmer  and  the  Vietnamese  communists  took  advantage 
of  this  disaffection,  and  they  actively  recruited  Khmer  Loeu  into 
their  ranks.  In  late  1970,  the  government  forces  withdrew  from 
Rotanokiri  and  Mondol  Kiri  provinces  and  abandoned  the  area 
to  the  rapidly  growing  Khmer  communist  insurgent  force,  the 
Revolutionary  Army  of  Kampuchea  (RAK — see  Appendix  B),  and 
to  its  Vietnamese  mentors  (see  Into  the  Maelstrom:  ch.  1;  Insur- 
rection and  War,  1967-75,  ch.  1;  National  Army  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea,  ch.  5).  There  is  some  evidence  that  in  the  1960s  and 
in  the  1970s  the  Front  Uni  pour  la  Liberation  des  Races  Opprimes 
(FULRO — United  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Oppressed  Races) 
united  tribes  in  the  mountainous  areas  of  southern  Vietnam  and 
had  members  from  Khmer  Loeu  groups  as  well  as  from  the  Cham 
in  Cambodia. 

In  the  early  1980s,  Khmer  Rouge  propaganda  teams  infiltrated 
the  northeastern  provinces  and  encouraged  rebellion  against  the 


103 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

central  government.  In  1981  the  government  structure  included 
four  Khmer  Loeu  province  chiefs,  all  reportedly  from  the  Brao 
group,  in  the  northeastern  provinces  of  Mondol  Kiri,  Rotanokiri, 
Stoeng  Treng,  and  Preah  Vihear.  According  to  a  1984  resolution 
of  the  PRK  National  Cadres  Conference  entitled  "Policy  Toward 
Ethnic  Minorities,"  the  minorities  were  considered  an  integral  part 
of  the  Cambodian  nation,  and  they  were  to  be  encouraged  to  par- 
ticipate in  collectivization.  Government  policy  aimed  to  transform 
minority  groups  into  modern  Cambodians.  The  same  resolution 
called  for  the  elimination  of  illiteracy,  with  the  stipulations  that 
minority  languages  be  respected  and  that  each  tribe  be  allowed  to 
write,  speak,  and  teach  in  its  own  language. 

The  major  Khmer  Loeu  groups  in  Cambodia  are  the  Kuy, 
Mnong,  Stieng,  Brao,  Pear,  Jarai,  and  Rade.  All  but  the  last  two 
speak  Mon-Khmer  languages  (see  Language,  this  ch.). 

In  the  late  1980s,  about  160,000  Kuy  lived  in  the  northern  Cam- 
bodian provinces  of  Kampong  Thum,  Preah  Vihear,  and  Stoeng 
Treng  as  well  as  in  adjacent  Thailand.  (Approximately  70,000  Kuy 
had  been  reported  in  Cambodia  itself  in  1978.)  Most  of  the  Kuy 
have  been  assimilated  into  the  predominant  culture  of  the  country 
in  which  they  live.  Many  are  Buddhists,  and  the  majority  practice 
wet-rice  cultivation.  They  have  the  reputation  of  being  skilled  black- 
smiths. 

The  Brao,  including  the  Tampuon  subgroup,  inhabit  north- 
eastern Cambodia  and  adjacent  Laos.  In  1962  the  Brao  popula- 
tion in  Laos  was  estimated  at  about  9,000  persons.  In  1984  it  was 
reported  that  the  total  Brao  population  was  between  10,000  and 
15,000  persons.  About  3,000  Brao  reportedly  moved  into  Cambo- 
dia from  Laos  in  the  1920s.  The  Brao  live  in  large  villages  cen- 
tered on  a  communal  house.  They  cultivate  dry-rice  and  produce 
some  pottery.  They  appear  to  have  a  bilateral  kinship  system. 

A  total  of  23,000  Mnong  were  thought  to  be  living  in  Cambo- 
dia and  in  Vietnam  in  the  early  1980s.  In  Cambodia  the  Mnong 
are  found  in  Mondol  Kiri,  Kracheh,  and  Kampong  Cham  provinces 
in  villages  consisting  of  several  longhouses  each  of  which  is  divided 
into  compartments  that  house  nuclear  families.  The  Mnong  prac- 
tice dry-rice  farming,  and  some  also  cultivate  a  wide  variety  of 
vegetables,  fruits,  and  other  useful  plants  as  secondary  crops.  Some 
subgroups  weave  cloth.  At  least  two  of  the  Mnong  subgroups 
have  matrilineal  descent.  Monogamy  is  the  predominant  form  of 
marriage,  and  residence  is  usually  matrilocal.  Wealth  distinctions 
are  measured  by  the  number  of  buffalo  that  a  notable  person 
sacrifices  on  a  funereal  or  ceremonial  occasion  as  a  mark  of  status 
and  as  a  means  of  eliciting  social  approval.  Slavery  is  known  to 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


have  existed  in  the  past,  but  the  system  allowed  a  slave  to  gain 
freedom.  The  Stieng  are  closely  related  to  the  Mnong.  Both  groups 
straddle  the  Cambodian- Vietnamese  border,  and  their  languages 
belong  to  the  same  subfamily  of  Mon-Khmer.  In  1978  the  Cam- 
bodian Stieng  numbered  about  20,000  persons  in  all.  The  Stieng 
cultivate  dry-field  rice.  Their  society  is  apparently  patriarchal;  resi- 
dence after  marriage  is  patrilocal  if  a  bride-price  was  paid.  The 
groups  have  a  very  loose  political  organization;  each  village  has 
its  own  leaders  and  tribunals. 

Several  small  groups,  perhaps  totalling  no  more  than  10,000  peo- 
ple in  Cambodia  and  southeastern  Thailand,  make  up  the  Pearic 
group.  The  main  members  are  the  Pear  in  Batdambang,  Pouthisat, 
and  Kampong  Thum  provinces;  the  Chong  in  Thailand  and  Bat- 
dambang Province;  the  Saoch  in  Kampot  Province;  the  Samre  in 
what  was  formerly  Siemreab  Province  (now  part  of  Siemreab-Otdar 
Meanchey  Province);  and  the  Suoi  in  Kampong  Chhnang  Province. 
Some  believe  that  this  group  constitutes  the  remnant  of  the  pre- 
Khmer  population  of  Cambodia.  Many  members  of  the  Pearic 
group  grow  dry-field  rice,  which  they  supplement  by  hunting  and 
by  gathering.  They  have  totemic  clans,  each  headed  by  a  chief  who 
inherited  his  office  patrilineally.  Marriage  occurs  at  an  early  age; 
there  is  a  small  bride-price.  Residence  may  be  matrilocal  until  the 
birth  of  the  first  child,  or  it  may  be  patrilocal  as  it  is  among  the 
Saoch.  The  village  headman  is  the  highest  political  leader.  The 
Saoch  have  a  council  of  elders  who  judge  infractions  of  traditional 
law.  Two  chief  sorcerers,  whose  main  function  is  to  control  the 
weather,  play  a  major  role  in  Pearic  religion.  Among  the  Saoch, 
a  corpse  is  buried  instead  of  being  burned  as  among  the  Khmer. 

The  Austronesian  groups  of  Jarai  and  Rade  form  two  of  the  larg- 
est ethnic  minorities  in  Vietnam.  Both  groups  spill  over  into  north- 
eastern Cambodia,  and  they  share  many  cultural  similarities.  The 
total  Jarai  population  stands  at  about  200,000;  the  Rade  number 
about  120,000.  According  to  1978  population  figures,  there  were 
10,000  Jarai  and  15,000  Rade  in  Cambodia  in  the  late  1970s.  They 
live  in  longhouses  containing  several  compartments  occupied  by 
matrilineally  linked  nuclear  families.  There  may  be  twenty  to  sixty 
longhouses  in  one  village.  The  Rade  and  Jarai  cultivate  dry-field 
rice  and  secondary  crops  such  as  maize.  Both  groups  have  exoga- 
mous  matrilineal  descent  groups  (consanguineous  kin  groups  that 
acknowledge  a  traditional  bond  of  common  descent  in  the  mater- 
nal line  and  within  which  they  do  not  marry).  Women  initiate  mar- 
riage negotiations,  and  residence  is  matrilocal.  Each  village  has 
its  own  political  hierarchy  and  is  governed  by  an  oligarchy  of  the 
leading  families.  In  the  past,  sorcerers  known  as  the  "kings  of  fire 


105 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

and  water"  exerted  political  power  that  extended  beyond  an  in- 
dividual village.  The  Rade  and  the  Jarai  have  been  involved  inti- 
mately in  the  FULRO  movement,  and  many  of  the  leaders  in  the 
movement  are  from  these  two  groups. 

The  Chinese 

The  Chinese  in  Cambodia  formed  the  country's  largest  ethnic 
minority  in  the  late  1960s  and  in  the  early  1970s.  In  the  late  1960s, 
an  estimated  425,000  ethnic  Chinese  lived  in  Cambodia,  but  by 
1984,  as  a  result  of  warfare,  Khmer  Rouge  and  Vietnamese  perse- 
cution, and  emigration,  only  about  61,400  Chinese  remained  in 
the  country.  Sixty  percent  of  the  Chinese  were  urban  dwellers  en- 
gaged mainly  in  commerce;  the  other  40  percent  were  rural  resi- 
dents working  as  shopkeepers,  as  buyers  and  processors  of  rice, 
palm  sugar,  fruit,  and  fish,  and  as  moneylenders.  In  1963  William 
Willmott,  an  expert  on  overseas  Chinese  communities,  estimated 
that  90  percent  of  the  Chinese  in  Cambodia  were  involved  in  com- 
merce and  that  92  percent  of  those  involved  in  commerce  in  Cam- 
bodia were  Chinese.  The  Chinese  in  Kampot  Province  and  in  parts 
of  Kaoh  Kong  Province  also  cultivated  black  pepper  and  fruit  (es- 
pecially rambutans,  durians,  and  coconuts),  and  they  engaged  in 
salt-water  fishing.  In  rural  Cambodia,  the  Chinese  were  money- 
lenders, and  they  wielded  considerable  economic  power  over  the 
ethnic  Khmer  peasants  through  usury.  Studies  in  the  1950s  dis- 
closed that  Chinese  shopkeepers  would  sell  to  peasants  on  credit 
at  interest  rates  of  from  10  to  20  percent  a  month.  In  1952  accord- 
ing to  Australian  political  analyst  Ben  Kiernan,  the  Colonial  Credit 
Office  found  in  a  survey  that  75  percent  of  the  peasants  in  Cam- 
bodia were  in  debt.  There  seemed  to  be  little  distinction  between 
Chinese  and  Sino-Khmer  (offspring  of  mixed  Chinese  and  Khmer 
marriages)  in  the  moneylending  and  shopkeeping  enterprises. 

The  Chinese  in  Cambodia  represented  five  major  linguistic 
groups,  the  largest  of  which  was  the  Teochiu  (accounting  for  about 
60  percent),  followed  by  the  Cantonese  (accounting  for  about  20 
percent),  the  Hokkien  (accounting  for  about  7  percent),  and  the 
Hakka  and  the  Hainanese  (each  accounting  for  about  4  percent). 
Those  belonging  to  certain  Chinese  linguistic  groups  in  Cambo- 
dia tended  to  gravitate  to  certain  occupations.  The  Teochiu,  who 
made  up  about  90  percent  of  the  rural  Chinese  population,  ran 
village  stores,  controlled  rural  credit  and  rice-marketing  facilities, 
and  grew  vegetables.  In  urban  areas  they  were  often  engaged  in 
such  enterprises  as  the  import-export  business,  the  sale  of  phar- 
maceuticals, and  street  peddling.  The  Cantonese,  who  were  the 
majority  Chinese  group  before  the  Teochiu  migrations  began  in 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  late  1930s,  lived  mainly  in  the  city.  Typically,  the  Cantonese 
engaged  in  transportation  and  in  construction,  for  the  most  part 
as  mechanics  or  carpenters.  The  Hokkien  community  was  involved 
in  import-export  and  in  banking,  and  it  included  some  of  the  coun- 
try's  richest  Chinese.  The  Hainanese  started  out  as  pepper  grow- 
ers in  Kampot  Province,  where  they  continued  to  dominate  that 
business.  Many  moved  to  Phnom  Penh,  where,  in  the  late  1960s, 
they  reportedly  had  a  virtual  monopoly  on  the  hotel  and  restau- 
rant business.  They  also  often  operated  tailor  shops  and  haberdash- 
eries. In  Phnom  Penh,  the  newly- arrived  Hakka  were  typically  folk 
dentists,  sellers  of  traditional  Chinese  medicines,  and  shoemakers. 

Distinction  by  dialect  group  also  has  been  important  historically 
in  the  administrative  treatment  of  the  Chinese  in  Cambodia.  The 
French  brought  with  them  a  system  devised  by  the  Vietnamese  Em- 
peror Gia  Long  (1802-20)  to  classify  the  local  Chinese  according 
to  areas  of  origin  and  dialect.  These  groups  were  called  bang  (or 
congregations  by  the  French)  and  had  their  own  leaders  for  law, 
order,  and  tax-collecting.  In  Cambodia  every  Chinese  was  required 
to  belong  to  a  bang.  The  head  of  a  bang,  known  as  the  ong  bang, 
was  elected  by  popular  vote;  he  functioned  as  an  intermediary  be- 
tween the  members  of  his  bang  and  the  government.  Individual 
Chinese  who  were  not  accepted  for  membership  in  a  bang  were 
deported  by  the  French  authorities. 

The  French  system  of  administering  the  Chinese  community  was 
terminated  in  1958.  During  the  1960s,  Chinese  community  affairs 
tended  to  be  handled,  at  least  in  Phnom  Penh,  by  the  Chinese 
Hospital  Committee,  an  organization  set  up  to  fund  and  to  ad- 
minister a  hospital  established  earlier  for  the  Chinese  community. 
This  committee  was  the  largest  association  of  Chinese  merchants 
in  the  country,  and  it  was  required  by  the  organization's  constitu- 
tion to  include  on  its  fifteen-member  board  six  from  the  Teochiu 
dialect  group,  three  from  the  Cantonese,  two  from  the  Hokkien, 
two  from  the  Hakka,  and  two  from  the  Hainanese.  The  hospital 
board  constituted  the  recognized  leadership  of  Phnom  Penh's 
Chinese  community.  Local  Chinese  school  boards  in  the  smaller 
cities  and  towns  often  served  a  similar  function. 

In  1971  the  government  authorized  the  formation  of  a  new  body, 
the  Federated  Association  of  Chinese  of  Cambodia,  which  was  the 
first  organization  to  embrace  all  of  Cambodia's  resident  Chinese. 
According  to  its  statutes,  the  federation  was  designed  to  "aid 
Chinese  nationals  in  the  social,  cultural,  public  health,  and  medi- 
cal fields,"  to  administer  the  property  owned  joindy  by  the  Chinese 
community  in  Phnom  Penh  and  elsewhere,  and  to  promote  friendly 
relations  between  Cambodians  and  Chinese.  With  leadership  that 


107 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

could  be  expected  to  include  the  recognized  leaders  of  the  national 
Chinese  community,  the  federation  was  believed  likely  to  continue 
the  trend,  evident  since  the  early  1960s,  to  transcend  dialect  group 
allegiance  in  many  aspects  of  its  social,  political,  and  economic 
programs. 

Generally,  relations  between  the  Chinese  and  the  ethnic  Khmer 
were  good.  There  was  some  intermarriage,  and  a  sizable  propor- 
tion of  the  population  in  Cambodia  was  part  Sino-Khmer,  who 
were  assimilated  easily  into  either  the  Chinese  or  the  Khmer  com- 
munity. Willmott  assumes  that  a  Sino-Khmer  elite  dominated  com- 
merce in  Cambodia  from  the  time  of  independence  well  into  the 
era  of  the  Khmer  Republic. 

The  Khmer  Rouge  takeover  was  catastrophic  for  the  Chinese 
community  for  several  reasons.  When  the  Khmer  Rouge  took  over 
a  town,  they  immediately  disrupted  the  local  market.  According 
to  Willmott,  this  disruption  virtually  eliminated  retail  trade  "and 
the  traders  (almost  all  Chinese)  became  indistinguishable  from  the 
unpropertied  urban  classes."  The  Chinese,  in  addition  to  having 
their  major  livelihood  eradicated,  also  suffered  because  of  their  class 
membership.  They  were  mainly  well-educated  urban  merchants, 
thus  possessing  three  characteristics  that  were  anathema  to  the 
Khmer  Rouge.  Chinese  refugees  have  reported  that  they  shared 
the  same  brutal  treatment  as  other  urban  Cambodians  under  the 
Khmer  Rouge  regime  and  that  they  were  not  especially  singled  out 
as  an  ethnic  group  until  after  the  Vietnamese  invasion.  Observers 
believe  that  the  anti-Chinese  stance,  of  the  Vietnamese  govern- 
ment and  of  its  officials  in  Phnom  Penh,  makes  it  unlikely  that  a 
Chinese  community  on  the  earlier  scale  will  reappear  in  Cambo- 
dia in  the  near  future. 

The  Vietnamese 

Enmity  has  existed  between  the  Khmer  and  the  Vietnamese  for 
centuries,  but  this  antagonism  did  not  hinder  the  growth  of  a  siza- 
ble Vietnamese  community  scattered  throughout  southeastern  and 
central  Cambodia.  According  to  an  American  scholar  on  Southeast 
Asia,  Donald  J.  Steinberg,  an  estimated  291,596  Vietnamese,  con- 
stituting more  than  7  percent  at  the  total  population,  resided  in 
Cambodia  in  1950.  They  were  concentrated  in  Phnom  Penh,  and 
in  Kandal,  Prey  Veng,  and  Kampong  Cham  provinces. 

The  Khmer  have  shown  more  antipathy  toward  the  Vietnamese 
than  toward  the  Chinese  or  toward  their  other  neighbors,  the  Thai. 
Several  factors  explain  this  attitude.  The  expansion  of  Vietnamese 
power  has  resulted  historically  in  the  loss  of  Khmer  territory.  The 
Khmer,  in  contrast,  have  lost  no  territory  to  the  Chinese  and  little 


108 


An  oxcart  driver 
wears  the  checkered  scarf 
that  distinguishes  Cambodians 
from  their  Thai  or 
Vietnamese  neighbors. 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


Mother  and  child 
symbolize  a  renascent  nation. 

Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


109 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  Thai.  No  close  cultural  or  religious  ties  exist  between  Cam- 
bodia and  Vietnam.  The  Vietnamese  fall  within  the  Chinese  cul- 
ture sphere,  rather  than  within  the  Indian,  where  the  Thai  and 
the  Khmer  belong.  The  Vietnamese  differ  from  the  Khmer  in  mode 
of  dress,  in  kinship  organization,  and  in  many  other  ways — for 
example  the  Vietnamese  are  Mahayana  Buddhists.  Although  Viet- 
namese lived  in  urban  centers  such  as  Phnom  Penh,  a  substantial 
number  lived  along  the  lower  Mekong  and  Basak  rivers  as  well 
as  on  the  shores  of  the  Tonle  Sap,  where  they  engaged  in  fishing. 
Much  of  the  manpower  on  French-owned  rubber  plantations  was 
provided  by  the  Vietnamese,  who  also  were  employed  by  the  French 
as  lower  level  civil  servants  and  as  white  collar  workers  in  private 
businesses. 

Other  Groups 

The  Europeans  and  the  Indians  constituted  the  smallest  ethnic 
minorities  in  Cambodia  prior  to  1975.  In  1950  there  were  about 
4,500  Europeans  and  about  2,500  Indians  in  addition  to  small  num- 
bers of  other  Asians  in  that  country.  More  than  90  percent  of  the 
Europeans  lived  in  Phnom  Penh,  and  the  next  largest  number  lived 
in  Kampong  Cham.  A  small  Burmese  minority,  the  Kola,  was 
found  in  unspecified  numbers  in  the  gem-mining  areas  of  Batdam- 
bang  and  Rotanokiri  provinces  in  prewar  days.  Many  of  the  Euro- 
peans served  as  technical  advisers  to  the  Cambodian  government, 
or  they  worked  for  Western  businesses.  The  Indians  often  were 
involved  in  moneylending  and  in  small  businesses,  such  as  those 
that  sold  books  and  cloth.  In  the  1980s,  Soviet  and  East  European 
advisers  supported  the  PRK  government,  but  no  accurate  estimate 
of  their  numbers  was  available. 

Languages 

The  majority  of  Cambodians,  even  those  who  are  not  ethnic 
Khmer,  speak  Khmer,  the  official  language  of  the  country.  Eth- 
nic Khmer  living  in  Thailand,  in  Vietnam,  and  in  Laos  speak  dia- 
lects of  Khmer  that  are  more  or  less  intelligible  to  Khmer  speakers 
from  Cambodia.  Minority  languages  include  Vietnamese,  Cham, 
several  dialects  of  Chinese,  and  the  languages  of  the  various  hill 
tribes  (see  Other  Ethnic  Groups,  this  ch.). 

Austroasiatic-Mon-Khmer 

Khmer  belongs  to  the  Mon-Khmer  family  of  the  Austroasiatic 
phylum  of  languages.  American  linguists  David  Thomas  and 
Robert  Headley  have  divided  the  Mon-Khmer  family  into  nine 
branches:  Pearic  in  western  Cambodia  and  eastern  Thailand; 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Khmer  in  Cambodia,  Thailand,  Vietnam,  and  Laos;  Bahnaric  in 
Vietnam,  Laos,  and  Cambodia;  Katuic  in  Vietnam,  Laos,  and 
Cambodia;  Khmuic  in  Laos,  Thailand,  and  China;  Monic  in 
Burma  and  Thailand;  Palaungic  in  Burma,  China,  and  Thailand; 
Khasi  in  Assam  (India);  and  Viet-Muong  in  Vietnam.  Of  the  lan- 
guages in  the  Mon-Khmer  family,  Vietnamese  has  the  largest  num- 
ber of  speakers  (about  47  million);  Khmer,  has  the  next  largest 
(about  8  million). 

Khmer,  in  contrast  to  Vietnamese,  Thai,  Lao,  and  Chinese,  is 
nontonal.  Native  Khmer  words  may  be  composed  of  one  or  two 
syllables.  Khmer  is  uninflected,  but  it  has  a  rich  system  of  affixes, 
including  infixes,  for  derivation.  Generally  speaking,  Khmer  has 
nouns  (including  pronouns  as  a  special  subcategory),  verbs  (includ- 
ing stative  verbs  or  adjectives),  adverbs,  and  various  kinds  of  words 
called  particles  (including  verbal  auxiliaries,  prepositions,  con- 
junctions, final  particles,  and  interjections).  Many  Khmer  words 
change,  chameleon-like,  from  one  part  of  speech  to  another,  de- 
pending on  the  context.  The  normal  word  order  is  subject-verb- 
object.  Adjectival  modifiers  follow  the  nouns  they  modify. 

Khmer,  like  its  neighbors,  Thai,  Lao,  and  Burmese,  has  bor- 
rowed extensively  from  other  languages,  especially  the  Indie  lan- 
guages of  Sanskrit  and  Pali.  Khmer  uses  Sanskrit  and  Pali  roots 
much  as  English  and  other  West  European  languages  use  Latin 
and  Greek  roots  to  derive  new,  especially  scientific,  words.  Khmer 
has  also  borrowed  terms — especially  financial,  commercial,  and 
cooking  terms — from  Chinese.  In  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  cen- 
turies, Khmer  borrowed  from  French  as  well.  These  latter  borrow- 
ings have  been  in  the  realm  of  material  culture,  especially  the  names 
for  items  of  modern  Western  technology,  such  as  buuzii  (spark  plug) 
from  the  French  bougie. 

Khmer  is  written  in  a  script  derived  from  a  south  Indian  alphabet. 
The  language  has  symbols  for  thirty-three  consonants,  twenty-four 
dependent  vowels,  twelve  independent  vowels,  and  several  dia- 
critics. Most  consonants  have  reduced  or  modified  forms,  called 
subscripts,  when  they  occur  as  the  second  member  of  a  consonant 
cluster.  Vowels  may  be  written  before,  after,  over,  or  under  a  con- 
sonant symbol. 

Some  efforts  to  standardize  Khmer  spelling  have  been  attempted, 
but  inconsistencies  persist,  and  many  words  have  more  than  one 
accepted  spelling.  A  two- volume  dictionary  prepared  under  the 
direction  of  the  Venerable  Chuon  Nath  of  the  Buddhist  Institute 
in  Phnom  Penh  is  the  standard  work  on  Khmer  lexicography. 

Khmer  is  divided  into  three  stages — Old  Khmer  (seventh  to 
twelfth  century  A.D.),  Middle  Khmer  (twelfth  to  seventeenth 


111 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

century  A.D.),  and  Modern  Khmer  (seventeenth  century  to  the 
present).  It  is  likely  that  Old  Khmer  was  the  language  of  Chenla. 
What  the  language  of  Funan  was  is  not  at  all  certain,  but  it  was 
probably  a  Mon-Khmer  language.  The  earliest  inscription  in 
Khmer,  found  at  Angkor  Borei  in  Takev  Province  south  of  Phnom 
Penh,  dates  from  A.D.  611  (see  Prehistory  and  Early  Kingdoms, 
ch.  1). 

Austronesian 

The  Austronesian  languages  are  spread  over  vast  areas  of  Asia 
and  the  Pacific,  from  Madagascar  to  Easter  Island  and  from  Tai- 
wan to  Malaysia.  Four  Austronesian  languages — Cham,  Jarai, 
Rade,  and  Malay — are  spoken  in  Cambodia.  Cham  is  spoken  by 
the  largest  number  of  people.  Before  1975,  there  were  about  100,000 
speakers  of  Western  Cham.  Western  Cham  is  the  term  used  to  dis- 
tinguish (at  least  two  mutually  related  dialects  of)  the  Cham  spoken 
in  Cambodia  and  that  used  in  adjacent  inland  Vietnam  from 
Eastern  Cham  spoken  in  the  coastal  areas  of  central  Vietnam. 
Western  Cham  is  written  in  Arabic  script,  or,  since  the  late  1960s 
and  the  early  1970s,  in  a  romanized  script  devised  by  Protestant 
missionaries.  The  traditional  Cham  script,  based  on  an  Indian 
script,  is  still  known  and  used  by  the  Eastern  Cham  in  Vietnam, 
but  it  has  been  lost  by  the  Western  Cham. 

The  Cham  language  is  also  nontonal.  Words  may  contain  one, 
two,  or  three  syllables.  Cham  contains  much  linguistic  borrowing 
from  Arabic,  Malay,  and  Khmer.  The  normal  word  order  is  subject- 
verb-object,  and,  as  in  Khmer,  modifying  adjectives  follow  the 
nouns  that  they  modify.  Most  Cham  in  Cambodia  are  bilingual 
in  Cham  and  in  Khmer  and  many  also  know  Arabic  and  Malay. 
Rade  and  Jarai,  close  relatives  of  Cham,  are  spoken  by  several  thou- 
sand members  of  both  ethnic  groups  in  northeastern  Cambodia. 
Both  languages  are  written  in  romanized  scripts  based  on  the  Viet- 
namese alphabet.  Rade  and  Jarai  have  rich  oral  literatures,  and 
the  former  has  two  epic  tales  that  have  been  transcribed  and  pub- 
lished. 

Religion 
Buddhism 

Origins  of  Buddhism  on  the  Indian  Subcontinent 

Theravada  Buddhism  is  the  religion  of  virtually  all  of  the  ethnic 
Khmer,  who  constitute  about  90  percent  or  more  of  the  Cambodian 
population.  Buddhism  originated  in  what  are  now  north  India  and 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Nepal  during  the  sixth  century  B.C.  It  was  founded  by  a  Sakya 
prince,  Siddhartha  Gautama  (563-483  B.C.;  his  traditional  dates 
are  623-543  B.C.,  also  called  the  Gautama  Buddha),  who,  at  the 
age  of  twenty-nine,  after  witnessing  old  age,  sickness,  death,  and 
meditation,  renounced  his  high  status  and  left  his  wife  and  infant 
son  for  a  life  of  asceticism.  After  years  of  seeking  truth,  he  is  said 
to  have  attained  enlightenment  while  sitting  alone  under  a  bo  tree. 
He  became  the  Buddha — "the  enlightened" — and  formed  an  order 
of  monks,  the  sangha  (see  Glossary),  and  later  an  order  of  nuns. 
He  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life  as  a  wandering  preacher,  dying 
at  the  age  of  eighty. 

Buddhism  began  as  a  reaction  to  Hindu  doctrines  and  as  an  ef- 
fort to  reform  them.  Nevertheless,  the  two  faiths  share  many  basic 
assumptions.  Both  view  the  universe  and  all  life  therein  as  parts 
of  a  cycle  of  eternal  flux.  In  each  religion,  the  present  life  of  an 
individual  is  a  phase  in  an  endless  chain  of  events.  Life  and  death 
are  merely  alternate  aspects  of  individual  existence  marked  by  the 
transition  points  of  birth  and  death.  An  individual  is  thus  continually 
reborn,  perhaps  in  human  form,  perhaps  in  some  non-human  form, 
depending  upon  his  or  her  actions  in  the  previous  life.  The  end- 
less cycle  of  rebirth  is  known  as  samsara  (wheel  of  life).  Theravada 
Buddhism  is  a  tolerant,  non  prescriptive  religion  that  does  not  re- 
quire belief  in  a  supreme  being.  Its  precepts  require  that  each  in- 
dividual take  full  responsibility  for  his  own  actions  and  omissions. 
Buddhism  is  based  on  three  concepts:  dharma  (the  doctrine  of  the 
Buddha,  his  guide  to  right  actions  and  belief);  karma  (the  belief 
that  one's  life  now  and  in  future  lives  depends  upon  one's  own  deeds 
and  misdeeds  and  that  as  an  individual  one  is  responsible  for,  and 
rewarded  on  the  basis  of,  the  sum  total  of  one's  acts  and  omissions 
in  all  one's  incarnations  past  and  present);  and  sangha,  the  ascetic 
community  within  which  man  can  improve  his  karma. 

The  Buddha  added  the  hope  of  escape — a  way  to  get  out  of  the 
endless  cycle  of  pain  and  sorrow — to  the  Brahmanic  idea  of  sam- 
sara. The  Buddhist  salvation  is  nirvana,  a  final  extinction  of  one's 
self.  Nirvana  may  be  attained  by  achieving  good  karma  through 
earning  much  merit  and  avoiding  misdeeds.  A  Buddhist's  pil- 
grimage through  existence  is  a  constant  attempt  to  distance  him- 
self or  herself  from  the  world  and  finally  to  achieve  complete 
detachment,  or  nirvana. 

The  fundamentals  of  Buddhist  doctrine  are  the  Four  Noble 
Truths:  suffering  exists;  craving  (or  desire)  is  the  cause  of  suffer- 
ing; release  from  suffering  can  be  achieved  by  stopping  all  desire; 
and  enlightenment — buddhahood — can  be  attained  by  following 


113 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Noble  Eightfold  Path  (right  views,  right  intention,  right  speech, 
right  action,  right  livelihood,  right  effort,  right  mindfulness,  and 
right  concentration),  which  constitutes  a  middle  way  between  sen- 
suality and  ascetism.  Enlightenment  consists  of  knowing  these 
truths.  The  average  layperson  cannot  hope  for  nirvana  after  the 
end  of  this  life,  but  can — by  complying,  as  best  he  or  she  is  able 
to,  with  the  doctrine's  rules  of  moral  conduct — hope  to  improve 
his  or  her  karma  and  thereby  better  his  condition  in  the  next  in- 
carnation. 

The  doctrine  of  karma  holds  that,  through  the  working  of  a  just, 
automatic,  and  impersonal  cosmic  law,  one's  actions  in  this  incar- 
nation and  in  all  previous  ones  will  determine  which  position  in 
the  hierarchy  of  living  things  one  will  occupy  in  the  next  incarna- 
tion. An  individual's  karma  can  be  improved  through  certain  acts 
and  omissions.  By  following  the  five  precepts  or  commandments, 
a  Buddhist  can  better  his  or  her  karma.  These  commandments  are: 
do  not  kill,  do  not  steal,  do  not  indulge  in  forbidden  sexual  plea- 
sures, do  not  tell  lies,  and  do  not  take  intoxicants  or  stupefying 
drugs  or  liquors. 

The  most  effective  way  to  work  actively  to  improve  one's  karma 
is  to  earn  merit.  Any  act  of  benevolence  or  generosity  can  gain 
merit  for  the  doer.  Cambodian  Buddhists  tend  to  regard  opportu- 
nities for  earning  merit  as  primarily  connected  with  interaction  with 
the  sangha,  contributing  to  its  support  through  money,  goods,  and 
labor,  and  participating  in  its  activities.  Some  of  the  favorite  ways 
for  a  male  to  earn  merit  are  to  enter  the  sangha  as  a  monk  (after 
the  age  of  twenty)  or  as  a  novice,  or  to  live  in  the  wat  as  a  temple 
servant;  in  the  case  of  a  female  (usually  the  elderly),  the  favorite 
way  is  to  become  a  nun.  Other  activities  that  gain  merit  include 
sponsoring  a  monk  or  novice,  contributing  to  a  wat,  feeding  mem- 
bers of  the  sangha  at  a  public  meal,  and  providing  food  for  either 
of  the  two  daily  meals  of  the  sangha. 

In  his  first  sermon  to  his  followers,  the  Buddha  described  a  moral 
code,  the  dharma,  which  the  sangha  was  to  teach  after  him.  He  left 
no  designated  successor.  Indian  emperor  Asoka  (273-232  B.C.) 
patronized  the  sangha  and  encouraged  the  teaching  of  the  Buddha's 
philosophy  throughout  his  vast  empire;  by  246  B.C.,  the  new 
religion  had  reached  Sri  Lanka.  The  Tripitaka,  the  collection  of 
basic  Buddhist  texts,  was  written  down  for  the  first  time  in  Sri  Lanka 
during  a  major  Buddhist  conference  in  the  second  or  first  century 
B.C.  By  the  time  of  the  conference,  a  schism  had  developed  separat- 
ing Mahayana  (Greater  Path)  Buddhism  from  more  conservative 
Theravada  (Way  of  the  Elders,  or  Hinayana — Lesser  Path)  fac- 
tion or  Buddhism.  The  Mahayana  faction  reinterpreted  the  original 


114 


Young  Buddhist  monks  pause  at  a  temple  entrance. 

Courtesy  Bill  Herod 

teachings  of  the  Buddha  and  added  a  type  of  deity  called  a  bodhi- 
sattva  (see  Glossary)  to  large  numbers  of  other  buddhas.  The 
Mahay  ana  adherents  believe  that  nirvana  is  available  to  everyone, 
not  just  to  select  holy  men.  Mahayana  Buddhism  quickly  spread 
throughout  India,  China,  Korea,  Japan,  Central  Asia,  and  to  some 
parts  of  Southeast  Asia.  According  to  the  Venerable  Pang  Khat, 
Theravada  Buddhism  reached  Southeast  Asia  as  early  as  the  sec- 
ond or  third  century  A.D.,  while  Mahayana  Buddhism  did  not 
arrive  in  Cambodia  until  about  A.D.  791.  In  Southeast  Asia, 
Mahayana  Buddhism  carried  many  Brahman  beliefs  with  it  to  the 
royal  courts  of  Funan,  of  Champa,  and  of  other  states.  At  this  time, 
Sanskrit  words  were  added  to  the  Khmer  and  to  the  Cham  lan- 
guages. Theravada  Buddhism  (with  its  scriptures  in  the  Pali  lan- 
guage), remained  influential  in  Sri  Lanka,  and  by  the  thirteenth 
century  it  had  spread  into  Burma,  Thailand,  Laos,  and  Cambo- 
dia, where  it  supplanted  Mahayana  Buddhism. 

Cambodian  Adaptations 

Cambodian  Buddhism  has  no  formal  administrative  ties  with 
other  Buddhist  bodies,  although  Theravada  monks  from  other  coun- 
tries, especially  Thailand,  Laos,  Burma,  and  Sri  Lanka,  may  par- 
ticipate in  religious  ceremonies  in  order  to  make  up  the  requisite 
number  of  clergy.  Cambodian  Buddhism  is  organized  nationally 


115 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

in  accordance  with  regulations  formulated  in  1943  and  modified 
in  1948.  During  the  monarchical  period,  the  king  led  the  Buddhist 
clergy.  Prince  Sihanouk  continued  in  this  role  even  after  he  had 
abdicated  and  was  governing  as  head  of  state.  He  appointed  both 
the  heads  of  the  monastic  orders  and  other  high-ranking  clergy. 
After  the  overthrow  of  Sihanouk  in  1970,  the  new  head  of  state, 
Lon  Nol,  appointed  these  leaders. 

Two  monastic  orders  constituted  the  clergy  in  Cambodia.  The 
larger  group,  to  which  more  than  90  percent  of  the  clergy  belonged, 
was  the  Mohanikay.  The  Thommayut  order  was  far  smaller.  The 
Thommayut  was  introduced  into  the  ruling  circles  of  Cambodia 
from  Thailand  in  1864;  it  gained  prestige  because  of  its  adoption 
by  royalty  and  by  the  aristocracy,  but  its  adherents  were  confined 
geographically  to  the  Phnom  Penh  area.  Among  the  few  differences 
between  the  two  orders  is  stricter  observance  by  the  Thommayut 
bonzes  (monks)  of  the  rules  governing  the  clergy.  In  1961  the 
Mohanikay  had  more  than  52,000  ordained  monks  in  some  2,700 
wat,  whereas  the  Thommayut  order  had  1,460  monks  in  just  over 
100  wat.  In  1967  more  than  2,800  Mohanikay  wat  and  320  Thom- 
mayut wat  were  in  existence  in  Cambodia.  After  Phnom  Penh, 
the  largest  number  of  Thommayut  wat  were  found  in  Batdam- 
bang,  Stoeng  Treng,  Prey  Veng,  Kampot,  and  Kampong  Thum 
provinces. 

Each  order  has  its  own  superior  and  is  organized  into  a  hierar- 
chy of  eleven  levels.  The  seven  lower  levels  are  known  collectively 
as  the  thananukram;  the  four  higher  levels  together  are  called  the 
rajagana.  The  Mohanikay  order  has  thirty-five  monks  in  the  rajagana; 
the  Thommayut  has  twenty-one.  Each  monk  must  serve  for  at  least 
twenty  years  to  be  named  to  these  highest  levels. 

The  cornerstones  of  Cambodian  Buddhism  are  the  Buddhist 
bonze  and  the  wat.  Traditionally,  each  village  has  a  spiritual 
center — a  wat — where  from  five  to  more  than  seventy  bonzes  re- 
side. A  typical  wat  in  rural  Cambodia  consists  of  a  walled  enclosure 
containing  a  sanctuary,  several  residences  for  bonzes,  a  hall,  a  kit- 
chen, quarters  for  nuns,  and  a  pond.  The  number  of  monks  varies 
according  to  the  size  of  the  local  population.  The  sanctuary,  which 
contains  an  altar  with  statues  of  the  Buddha  and,  in  rare  cases, 
a  religious  relic,  is  reserved  for  major  ceremonies  and  usually  only 
for  the  use  of  bonzes.  Other  ceremonies,  classes  for  monks  and  for 
laity,  and  meals  take  place  in  the  hall.  Stupas  containing  the  ashes 
of  extended  family  members  are  constructed  near  the  sanctuary. 
Fruit  trees  and  vegetable  gardens  tended  by  local  children  are  also 
part  of  the  local  wat.  The  main  entrance,  usually  only  for  ceremonial 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


use,  faces  east;  other  entrances  are  located  at  other  points  around 
the  wall.  There  are  no  gates. 

Steinberg  notes  the  striking  ratio  of  bonzes  to  the  total  popula- 
tion of  Cambodia.  In  the  late  1950s,  an  estimated  100,000  bonzes 
(including  about  40,000  novices)  served  a  population  of  about  5 
million.  This  high  proportion  undoubtedly  was  caused  in  large  part 
by  the  ease  with  which  one  could  enter  and  leave  the  sangha.  Be- 
coming a  bonze  and  leaving  the  sangha  are  matters  of  individual 
choice  although,  in  theory,  nearly  all  Cambodian  males  over  six- 
teen serve  terms  as  bonzes.  Most  young  men  do  not  intend  to  be- 
come fully  ordained  bonzes  (bhikkhu),  and  they  remain  as  monks 
for  less  than  a  year.  Even  a  son's  temporary  ordination  as  a  bonze 
brings  great  merit  to  his  parents,  however,  and  is  considered  so 
important  that  arrangements  are  made  at  a  parent's  funeral  if  the 
son  has  not  undergone  the  process  while  the  parent  was  living. 
There  are  two  classes  of  bonzes  at  a  wat — the  novices  (samani  or 
nen)  and  the  bhikkhu.  Ordination  is  held  from  mid- April  to  mid- 
July,  during  the  rainy  season. 

Buddhist  monks  do  not  take  perpetual  vows  to  remain  monks, 
although,  in  fact,  some  become  monks  permanentiy.  Traditionally, 
they  became  monks  early  in  life.  It  is  possible  to  become  a  novice 
at  as  young  an  age  as  seven,  but  in  practice  thirteen  is  the  earliest 
age  for  novices.  A  bhikkhu  must  be  at  least  twenty.  The  monk's 
life  is  regulated  by  Buddhist  law,  and  life  in  the  wat  adheres  to 
a  rigid  routine.  A  bhikkhu  follows  227  rules  of  monastic  discipline 
as  well  as  the  10  basic  precepts.  These  include  the  five  precepts 
that  all  Buddhists  should  follow.  The  five  precepts  for  monastic 
asceticism  prohibit  eating  after  noon,  participating  in  any  enter- 
tainment (singing,  dancing,  and  watching  movies  or  television), 
using  any  personal  adornments,  sleeping  on  a  luxurious  bed,  and 
handling  money.  In  addition,  a  monk  also  is  expected  to  be  celi- 
bate. Furthermore,  monks  supposedly  avoid  all  involvement  in 
political  affairs.  They  are  not  eligible  to  vote  or  to  hold  any  politi- 
cal office,  and  they  may  not  witness  a  legal  document  or  give  tes- 
timony in  court.  Since  the  person  of  a  monk  is  considered  sacred, 
he  is  considered  to  be  outside  the  normal  civil  laws  and  public  duties 
that  affect  lay  people.  Some  of  these  practices  have  changed  in  the 
modern  period,  however,  and  in  the  1980s  Buddhist  monks  have 
been  active  even  in  the  PRK  government. 

Women  are  not  ordained,  but  older  women,  especially  widows, 
can  become  nuns.  They  live  in  wat  and  play  an  important  role  in 
the  everyday  life  of  the  temple.  Nuns  shave  their  heads  and  eye- 
brows and  generally  follow  the  same  precepts  as  monks.  They  may 
prepare  the  altars  and  do  some  of  the  housekeeping  chores. 


117 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Role  of  Buddhism  in  Cambodian  Life 

Buddhist  monks  traditionally  were  called  upon  to  perform  a  num- 
ber of  functions  in  Cambodian  life.  They  participated  in  all  for- 
mal village  festivals,  ceremonies,  marriages,  and  funerals.  They 
also  might  have  participated  in  ceremonies  to  name  infants  and 
in  other  minor  ceremonies  or  rites  of  passage.  Monks  did  not  lead 
the  ceremonies,  however,  because  that  role  was  given  to  the  achar, 
or  master  of  ceremonies;  the  monk's  major  function  was  to  say 
prayers  of  blessing.  They  were  often  healers  and,  in  traditional 
Khmer  culture,  they  were  the  practitioners  whose  role  was  closest 
to  that  of  modern  psychiatrists.  They  might  also  have  been  skilled 
in  astrology.  The  monk  traditionally  occupied  a  unique  position 
in  the  transmission  of  Khmer  culture  and  values.  By  his  way  of 
life,  he  provided  a  living  model  of  the  most  meritorious  behavior 
a  Buddhist  could  follow.  He  also  provided  the  laity  with  many 
opportunities  for  gaining  merit.  For  centuries  monks  were  the  only 
literate  people  residing  in  rural  communities;  they  acted  as  teachers 
to  temple  servants,  to  novices,  and  to  newly  ordained  monks.  Until 
the  1970s,  most  literate  Cambodian  males  gained  literacy  solely 
through  the  instruction  of  the  sangha. 

After  independence  from  France,  young  Cambodian  intellectuals 
changed  their  attitude  toward  the  clergy.  In  describing  a  general 
shift  away  from  Buddhism  in  the  late  1950s  and  the  early  1960s, 
Vickery  cites  the  early  work  of  anthropologist  May  Mayko  Ebihara 
and  his  own  observations.  He  suggests  that  the  Khmer  Rouge  was 
able  to  instill  antireligious  feelings  in  younger  males  because  the 
latter  were  losing  interest  in  becoming  monks  even  during  their 
teenage  years,  the  traditional  temporary  period  of  service.  The 
monks  themselves  had  abandoned  some  of  their  traditional  restric- 
tions and  had  become  involved  in  politics.  At  intervals  during  the 
colonial  period,  some  monks  had  demonstrated  or  had  rebelled 
against  French  rule,  and  in  the  1970s  monks  joined  pro- government 
demonstrations  against  the  communists.  Anticlerical  feelings 
reached  their  highest  point  among  the  Khmer  Rouge,  who  at  first 
attempted  to  indoctrinate  monks  and  to  force  them  to  pass  anti- 
clerical ideas  on  to  the  laity.  Under  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime, 
monks  were  expelled  forcibly  from  the  wat  and  were  compelled 
to  do  manual  labor.  Article  20  of  the  1976  Constitution  of  Demo- 
cratic Kampuchea  permitted  freedom  of  religion  but  banned  all 
reactionary  religions,  that  were  "detrimental  to  the  country."  The 
minister  of  culture  stated  that  Buddhism  was  incompatible  with 
the  revolution  and  was  an  instrument  of  exploitation.  Under  this 
regime,  to  quote  the  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission,  "The  practice 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  religion  was  forbidden  and  the  pagodas  were  systematically  de- 
stroyed." Observers  estimated  that  50,000  monks  died  during  the 
Khmer  Rouge  regime.  The  status  of  Buddhism  and  of  religion  in 
general  after  the  Vietnamese  invasion  was  at  least  partially  simi- 
lar to  its  status  in  pre-Khmer  Rouge  times. 

According  to  Michael  Vickery,  who  has  written  positively  about 
the  PRK,  public  observance  of  Buddhism  and  of  Islam  has  been 
reestablished,  and  government  policies  allow  Cambodians  freedom 
to  believe  or  not  to  believe  in  Buddhism.  Vickery  cites  some  differ- 
ences in  this  reestablished  Buddhism.  Religious  affairs  are  over- 
seen by  the  PRK's  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  United  Front  for 
National  Construction  and  Defense  (KUFNCD — see  Appendix  B), 
the  mass  organization  that  supports  the  state  by  organizing  women, 
youths,  workers,  and  religious  groups  (see  The  Kampuchean,  or 
Khmer,  United  Front  for  National  Construction  and  Defense, 
ch.  4).  In  1987  there  was  only  a  single  Buddhist  order  because  the 
Thommayut  order  had  not  been  revived.  The  organization  of  the 
clergy  also  had  been  simplified.  The  sangharaja  (primate  of  the  Bud- 
dhist clergy)  had  been  replaced  by  aprathean  (chairman).  Commu- 
nities that  wanted  a  wat  had  to  apply  to  a  local  front  committee 
for  permission.  The  wat  were  administered  by  a  committee  of  the 
local  laity.  Private  funds  paid  for  the  restoration  of  the  wat  damaged 
during  the  war  and  the  Khmer  Rouge  era,  and  they  supported  the 
restored  wat.  Monks  were  ordained  by  a  hierarchy  that  has  been 
reconstituted  since  an  initial  ordination  in  September  1979  by  a 
delegation  from  the  Buddhist  community  in  Vietnam.  The  validity 
of  this  ordination  continues  to  be  questioned.  In  general,  there  are 
only  two  to  four  monks  per  wat,  which  is  fewer  than  before  1975. 
In  1981  about  4,930  monks  served  in  740  wat  in  Cambodia.  The 
Buddhist  General  Assembly  reported  7,000  monks  in  1,821  active 
wat  a  year  later.  In  1969  by  contrast,  observers  estimated  that 
53,400  monks  and  40,000  novice  monks  served  in  more  than  3,000 
wat.  Vickery  sums  up  his  observations  on  the  subject  by  noting 
that,  "The  government  has  kept  its  promise  to  allow  freedom  for 
traditional  Buddhism,  but  does  not  actively  encourage  it." 

Martin  offers  another,  more  pessimistic,  view  of  the  religious 
situation  in  the  late  1980s.  In  a  1986  study,  she  asserts  that  the 
PRK  showed  outsiders  only  certain  aspects  of  religious  freedom; 
she  also  states  that  the  few  wat  that  were  restored  had  only  two 
or  three  old  monks  in  residence  and  that  public  attendance  was 
low.  The  monks  were  allowed  to  leave  the  wat  only  for  an  hour 
in  the  mornings,  to  collect  their  food,  or  during  holy  days.  Lay 
people  who  practiced  their  faith  were  about  the  same  ages  as  the 
monks,  and  they  were  allowed  to  visit  the  wat  only  in  the  evenings. 


119 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

A  government  circular  had  also  instructed  civil  servants  to  stop 
celebrating  the  traditional  New  Year  Festival.  Some  traditional  Bud- 
dhist festivals  still  were  tolerated,  but  the  state  collected  a  50  per- 
cent tithe  on  donations.  Martin  believes  that  Buddhism  was 
threatened  externally  by  state  repression  and  by  nonsupport  and 
internally  by  invalid  clergy.  She  noted  that  the  two  Buddhist  su- 
periors, Venerable  Long  Chhim  and  Venerable  Tep  Vong,  were 
both  believed  to  be  from  Vietnam.  Venerable  Tep  Vong  was  con- 
currently the  superior  of  the  Buddhist  clergy,  vice  president  of  the 
PRK's  Khmer  National  Assembly,  and  vice  president  of  the 
KUFNCD  National  Council.  She  quoted  a  refugee  from  Batdam- 
bang  as  having  said,  ' ' During  the  meetings,  the  Khmer  adminis- 
trative authorities,  accompanied  by  the  Vietnamese  experts,  tell 
you,  'Religion  is  like  poison,  it's  like  opium;  it's  better  to  give  the 
money  to  the  military,  so  they  can  fight'." 

Buddhism  is  still  strong  among  the  various  Cambodian  refugee 
groups  throughout  the  world,  although  some  younger  monks,  faced 
with  the  distractions  of  a  foreign  culture,  have  chosen  to  leave  the 
clergy  and  have  become  laicized.  In  the  United  States  in  1984,  there 
were  twelve  Cambodian  wat  with  about  twenty-one  monks.  In  the 
1980s,  a  Cambodian  Buddhist  wat  was  constructed  near  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  financed  by  a  massive  outpouring  of  donations  from 
Cambodian  Buddhists  throughout  North  America.  This  wat  is  one 
of  the  few  outside  Southeast  Asia  that  has  the  consecrated  bound- 
ary within  which  ordinations  may  be  performed. 

Most  of  the  major  Cambodian  annual  festivals  are  connected 
with  Buddhist  observances.  The  cholchnam  (New  Year  Festival)  takes 
place  in  mid- April;  it  was  one  of  the  few  festivals  allowed  under 
the  Khmer  Rouge  regime.  The  phchun  ben,  celebrated  in  Septem- 
ber or  in  October,  is  a  memorial  day  for  deceased  ancestors  and 
for  close  friends.  Meak  bochea,  in  January  or  February,  com- 
memorates the  last  sermon  of  the  Buddha.  Vissakh  bochea,  in  April 
or  in  May,  is  the  triple  anniversary  of  the  birth,  death,  and  en- 
lightenment of  the  Buddha.  The  chol  vossa  takes  place  in  June  or 
in  July;  it  marks  the  beginning  of  a  penitential  season  during  which 
the  monks  must  remain  within  the  temple  compounds.  The  kathen 
marks  the  end  of  this  season;  celebrated  in  September,  it  features 
offerings,  especially  of  robes,  to  the  monks.  The  kathen  was  still 
celebrated  in  the  PRK  in  the  late  1980s. 

Cambodian  Buddhism  exists  side-by-side  with,  and  to  some 
extent  intermingles  with,  pre-Buddhist  animism  and  Brahman  prac- 
tices. Most  Cambodians,  whether  or  not  they  profess  to  be  Budd- 
hists (or  Muslims),  believe  in  a  rich  supernatural  world.  When  ill, 
or  at  other  times  of  crisis,  or  to  seek  supernatural  help,  Cambodians 


120 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


may  enlist  the  aid  of  a  practitioner  who  is  believed  to  be  able  to 
propitiate  or  obtain  help  from  various  spirits.  Local  spirits  are  be- 
lieved to  inhabit  a  variety  of  objects,  and  shrines  to  them  may  be 
found  in  houses,  in  Buddhist  temples,  along  roads,  and  in  forests. 

Several  types  of  supernatural  entities  are  believed  to  exist;  they 
make  themselves  known  by  means  of  inexplicable  sounds  or  hap- 
penings. Among  these  phenomena  are  khmoc  (ghosts),  pret  and  besach 
(particularly  nasty  demons,  the  spirits  of  people  who  have  died  vio- 
lent, untimely,  or  unnatural  deaths),  arak  (evil  spirits,  usually  fe- 
male), neak  ta  (tutelary  spirits  residing  in  inanimate  objects),  mneang 
phteah  (guardians  of  the  house),  meba  (ancestral  spirits),  and  mrenh 
kongveal  (elf-like  guardians  of  animals) .  All  spirits  must  be  shown 
proper  respect,  and,  with  the  exception  of  the  mneang  phteah  and 
mrenh  kongveal,  they  can  cause  trouble  ranging  from  mischief  to  seri- 
ous life-threatening  illnesses.  An  important  way  for  living  people 
to  show  respect  for  the  spirits  of  the  dead  is  to  provide  food  for 
the  spirits.  If  this  food  is  not  provided,  the  spirit  can  cause  trouble 
for  the  offending  person.  For  example,  if  a  child  does  not  provide 
food  for  the  spirit  of  its  dead  mother,  that  spirit  can  cause  misfor- 
tunes to  happen  to  the  child. 

Aid  in  dealing  with  the  spirit  world  may  be  obtained  from  a  km 
(shaman  or  spirit  practitioner),  an  achar  (ritualist),  thmup  (witch, 
sorcerer  or  sorceress),  or  a  rup  arak  (medium,  usually  male).  The 
km  is  a  kind  of  sorcerer  who  prepares  charms  and  amulets  to  pro- 
tect the  wearer  from  harm.  He  can  cure  illnesses,  find  lost  objects, 
and  prepare  magic  potions.  Traditionally,  Cambodians  have  held 
strong  beliefs  about  protective  charms.  Amulets  are  worn  routinely 
by  soldiers  to  ward  off  bullets,  for  example.  The  km  are  believed 
to  have  the  power  to  prepare  an  amulet  and  to  establish  a  super- 
natural link  between  it  and  the  owner.  A  km  may  acquire  consider- 
able local  prestige  and  power.  Many  km  are  former  Buddhist  monks. 

Another  kind  of  magical  practitioner  is  the  achar,  a  specialist  in 
ritual.  He  may  function  as  a  kind  of  master  of  ceremonies  at  a  wat 
and  as  a  specialist  in  conducting  spirit  worship  rituals  connected 
with  life-cycle  ceremonies.  Rup  arak  are  mediums  who  can  be  pos- 
sessed by  supernatural  beings  and  communicate  with  the  spirit 
world.  The  thmup  are  sorcerers  who  cause  illnesses. 

Fortunetellers  and  astrologers — haor  teay — are  important  in  Cam- 
bodian life.  They  are  consulted  about  important  decisions  such  as 
marriages,  building  a  new  house,  or  going  on  a  long  journey.  They 
are  believed  to  be  able  to  foretell  future  events  and  to  determine 
lucky  or  unlucky  days  for  various  activities. 

Villagers  are  sensitive  to  the  power  and  to  the  needs  of  the  spirit 
world.  According  to  observations  by  an  American  missionary  in 


121 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  early  1970s,  villagers  consulted  the  local  guardian  spirit  to  find 
out  what  the  coming  year  would  bring,  a  new  province  chief  held 
a  ceremony  to  ask  the  protection  of  the  spirits  over  the  province, 
and  soldiers  obtained  magic  cloths  and  amulets  from  mediums  and 
shamans  to  protect  them  from  the  bullets  of  the  enemy.  Before  em- 
barking on  a  mission  against  enemy  forces,  a  province  chief  might 
burn  incense  and  call  on  a  spirit  for  aid  in  defeating  the  enemy. 
Examples  of  Brahman  influences  were  various  rituals  concerned 
with  the  well-being  of  the  nation  carried  out  by  the  ruler  and  the 
baku  (a  Brahman  priesdy  group  attached  to  the  royal  court).  These 
rituals  were  reportedly  stopped  after  Sihanouk's  ouster  in  1970  (see 
The  March  1970  Coup  d'Etat,  ch.  1). 

Chinese  Religion 

Mahay  ana  Buddhism  is  the  religion  of  the  majority  of  Chinese 
and  Vietnamese  in  Cambodia.  Elements  of  other  religious  prac- 
tices, such  as  veneration  of  folk  heros  and  ancestors,  Confucian- 
ism, and  Taoism  mix  with  Chinese  and  Vietnamese  Buddhism. 

In  the  Chinese  home,  ancestors  and  household  gods  are  honored 
during  prescribed  times  to  help  unite  the  extended  family  and  to 
gain  help  from  the  dead,  who  can  intercede  for  the  living.  Taoism 
teaches  meditation  and  the  use  of  magic  to  gain  happiness,  wealth, 
health,  and  immortality.  Confucianism,  part  social  philosophy  and 
part  religion,  stresses  religious  ritual  and  pays  great  attention  to 
the  veneration  of  ancestors  and  of  great  figures  of  the  past. 

Chinese  Mahayana  Buddhism  has  become  intertwined  with 
Taoist  and  with  Confucian  beliefs.  Adherents  honor  many  bud- 
dhas,  including  the  Gautama  Buddha,  and  they  believe  in  a  para- 
dise after  death.  They  also  believe  in  bodhisattvas — people  who 
have  nearly  attained  nirvana,  but  who  stay  back  to  help  save  others. 

Islam 

Islam  is  the  religion  of  the  Cham  (also  called  Khmer  Islam)  and 
Malay  minorities.  According  to  Po  Dharma,  there  were  150,000 
to  200,000  Muslims  in  Cambodia  as  late  as  1975.  Persecution  under 
the  Khmer  Rouge  eroded  their  numbers,  however,  and  by  the  late 
1980s  they  probably  had  not  regained  their  former  strength.  All 
of  the  Cham  Muslims  are  Sunnis  of  the  Shafii  school.  Po  Dharma 
divides  the  Muslim  Cham  in  Cambodia  into  a  traditionalist  branch 
and  an  orthodox  branch. 

The  Cham  have  their  own  mosques.  In  1962  there  were  about 
100  mosques  in  the  country.  At  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
the  Muslims  in  Cambodia  formed  a  unified  community  under  the 
authority  of  four  religious  dignitaries — mupti,  tuk  kalih,  raja  kalik, 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  tvan  pake.  A  council  of  notables  in  Cham  villages  consisted  of 
one  hakem  and  several  katip,  bilal,  and  labi.  The  four  high  dignitar- 
ies and  the  hakem  were  exempt  from  personal  taxes,  and  they  were 
invited  to  take  part  in  major  national  ceremonies  at  the  royal  court. 
When  Cambodia  became  independent,  the  Islamic  community  was 
placed  under  the  control  of  a  five-member  council  that  represented 
the  community  in  official  functions  and  in  contacts  with  other 
Islamic  communities.  Each  Muslim  community  has  a  hakem  who 
leads  the  community  and  the  mosque,  an  imam  who  leads  the 
prayers,  and  a  bilal  who  calls  the  faithful  to  the  daily  prayers.  The 
peninsula  of  Chrouy  Changvar  near  Phnom  Penh  is  considered 
the  spiritual  center  of  the  Cham,  and  several  high  Muslim  offi- 
cials reside  there.  Each  year  some  of  the  Cham  go  to  study  the 
Quran  at  Kelantan  in  Malaysia,  and  some  go  on  to  study  in,  or 
make  a  pilgrimage  to,  Mecca.  According  to  figures  from  the  late 
1950s,  about  7  percent  of  the  Cham  had  completed  the  pilgrimage 
and  could  wear  the  fez  or  turban  as  a  sign  of  their  accomplishment. 

The  traditional  Cham  retain  many  ancient  Muslim  or  pre- 
Muslim  traditions  and  rites.  They  consider  Allah  as  the  all-powerful 
God,  but  they  also  recognize  other  non-Islamic  deities.  They  are 
closer,  in  many  respects,  to  the  Cham  of  coastal  Vietnam  than  they 
are  to  other  Muslims.  The  religious  dignitaries  of  the  traditional 
Cham  (and  of  the  Cham  in  Vietnam)  dress  completely  in  white, 
and  they  shave  their  heads  and  faces.  These  Cham  believe  in  the 
power  of  magic  and  sorcery,  and  they  attach  great  importance  to 
magical  practices  in  order  to  avoid  sickness  or  slow  or  violent  death. 
They  believe  in  many  supernatural  powers.  Although  they  show 
little  interest  in  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  and  in  the  five  daily 
prayers,  the  traditional  Cham  do  celebrate  many  Muslim  festivals 
and  rituals. 

The  orthodox  Cham  have  adopted  a  more  orthodox  religion 
largely  because  of  their  close  contacts  with,  and  intermarriages  with, 
the  Malay  community.  In  fact,  the  orthodox  Cham  have  adopted 
Malay  customs  and  family  organization,  and  many  speak  the  Malay 
language.  They  send  pilgrims  to  Mecca,  and  they  attend  interna- 
tional Islamic  conferences.  Conflicts  between  the  traditional  and 
the  orthodox  Cham  increased  between  1954  and  1975.  For  exam- 
ple, the  two  groups  polarized  the  population  of  one  village,  and 
each  group  eventually  had  its  own  mosque  and  separate  religious 
organization. 

According  to  Cham  sources,  132  mosques  were  destroyed  dur- 
ing the  Khmer  Rouge  era,  many  others  were  desecrated,  and  Mus- 
lims were  not  allowed  to  worship.  In  the  PRK,  Islam  has  been  given 
the  same  freedom  as  Buddhism.  Vickery  believes  that  about  185,000 


123 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Cham  lived  in  Cambodia  in  the  mid-1980s  and  that  the  number 
of  mosques  was  about  the  same  then  as  it  was  before  1975.  In  late 
1987,  there  were  six  mosques  in  the  Phnom  Penh  area  and  a  "good 
number"  in  the  provinces,  but  Muslim  dignitaries  were  thinly 
stretched;  only  20  of  the  previous  113  most  prominent  Cham  clergy 
in  Cambodia  survived  the  Khmer  Rouge  period. 

Other  Religions 

Christianity,  introduced  into  Cambodia  by  Roman  Catholic  mis- 
sionaries in  1660,  made  little  headway,  at  least  among  the  Bud- 
dhists. In  1972  there  were  probably  about  20,000  Christians  in 
Cambodia,  most  of  whom  were  Roman  Catholics.  Before  the 
repatriation  of  the  Vietnamese  in  1970  and  1971,  possibly  as  many 
as  62,000  Christians  lived  in  Cambodia.  According  to  Vatican 
statistics,  in  1953,  members  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  Cam- 
bodia numbered  120,000,  making  it,  at  the  time,  the  second  larg- 
est religion  in  the  country.  In  April  1970,  just  before  repatriation, 
estimates  indicate  that  about  50,000  Catholics  were  Vietnamese. 
Many  of  the  Catholics  remaining  in  Cambodia  in  1972  were 
Europeans — chiefly  French.  Steinberg  reported,  also  in  1953,  that 
an  American  Unitarian  mission  maintained  a  teacher-training 
school  in  Phnom  Penh,  and  Baptist  missions  functioned  in  Bat- 
dambang  and  Siemreab  provinces.  A  Christian  and  Missionary 
Alliance  mission  was  founded  in  Cambodia  in  1923;  by  1962  the 
mission  had  converted  about  2,000  people. 

American  Protestant  missionary  activity  increased  in  Cambo- 
dia, especially  among  some  of  the  hill  tribes  and  among  the  Cham, 
after  the  establishment  of  the  Khmer  Republic.  The  1962  census, 
which  reported  2,000  Protestants  in  Cambodia,  remains  the  most 
recent  statistic  for  the  group.  In  1982  French  geographer  Jean  Del- 
vert  reported  that  three  Christian  villages  existed  in  Cambodia, 
but  he  gave  no  indication  of  the  size,  location,  or  type  of  any  of 
them.  Observers  reported  that  in  1980  there  were  more  registered 
Khmer  Christians  among  the  refugees  in  camps  in  Thailand  than 
in  all  of  Cambodia  before  1970.  Kiernan  notes  that,  until  June  1980, 
five  weekly  Protestant  services  were  held  in  Phnom  Penh  by  a 
Khmer  pastor,  but  that  they  had  been  reduced  to  a  single  weekly 
service  after  police  harassment.  His  estimates  suggest  that  in  1987 
the  Christian  community  in  Cambodia  had  shrunk  to  only  a  few 
thousand  members. 

Highland  tribal  groups,  most  with  their  own  local  religious  sys- 
tems, probably  number  fewer  than  100,000  persons.  The  Khmer 
Loeu  have  been  loosely  described  as  animists,  but  most  tribal  groups 
have  their  own  pantheon  of  local  spirits.  In  general  they  see  their 


124 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


world  filled  with  various  invisible  spirits  (often  called  yang),  some 
benevolent,  others  malevolent.  They  associate  spirits  with  rice,  soil, 
water,  fire,  stones,  paths,  and  so  forth.  Sorcerers  or  specialists  in 
each  village  contact  these  spirits  and  prescribe  ways  to  appease  them. 
In  times  of  crisis  or  change,  animal  sacrifices  may  be  made  to  pla- 
cate the  anger  of  the  spirits.  Illness  is  often  believed  to  be  caused 
by  evil  spirits  or  sorcerers.  Some  tribes  have  special  medicine  men 
or  shamans  who  treat  the  sick.  In  addition  to  belief  in  spirits,  vil- 
lagers believe  in  taboos  on  many  objects  or  practices.  Among  the 
Khmer  Loeu,  the  Rade  and  Jar ai  groups  have  a  well  developed 
hierarchy  of  spirits  with  a  supreme  ruler  at  its  head. 

Education 

Public  School  System 

Traditional  education  in  Cambodia  was  handled  by  the  local  wat, 
and  the  bonzes  were  the  teachers.  The  students  were  almost  en- 
tirely young  boys,  and  the  education  was  limited  to  memorizing 
Buddhist  chants  in  Pali.  During  the  period  of  the  French  protec- 
torate, an  educational  system  based  on  the  French  model  was  in- 
augurated alongside  the  traditional  system.  Initially,  the  French 
neglected  education  in  Cambodia.  Only  seven  high  school  students 
graduated  in  1931,  and  only  50,000  to  60,000  children  were  en- 
rolled in  primary  school  in  1936.  In  the  years  immediately  follow- 
ing independence,  the  number  of  students  rapidly  increased. 
Vickery  suggests  that  education  of  any  kind  was  considered  an 
"absolute  good"  by  all  Cambodians  and  that  this  attitude  eventu- 
ally created  a  large  group  of  unemployed  or  underemployed  gradu- 
ates by  the  late  1960s. 

From  the  early  twentieth  century  until  1975,  the  system  of  mass 
education  operated  on  the  French  model.  The  educational  system 
was  divided  into  primary,  secondary,  higher,  and  specialized  levels. 
Public  education  was  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry  of  Edu- 
cation, which  exercised  full  control  over  the  entire  system;  it  es- 
tablished syllabi,  hired  and  paid  teachers,  provided  supplies,  and 
inspected  schools.  An  inspector  of  primary  education,  who  had  con- 
siderable authority,  was  assigned  to  each  province.  Cultural  com- 
mittees under  the  Ministry  of  Education  were  responsible  for 
"enriching  the  Cambodian  language." 

Primary  education,  divided  into  two  cycles  of  three  years  each, 
was  carried  out  in  state-run  and  temple-run  schools.  Successful  com- 
pletion of  a  final  state  examination  led  to  the  award  of  a  certificate 
after  each  cycle.  The  primary  education  curriculum  consisted  of 
arithmetic,  history,  ethics,  civics,  drafting,  geography,  hygiene, 


125 


Vong  Dantrey  percussion  ensemble 
accompanies  classical  ballet  rehearsal. 

Courtesy  Bill  Herod 

language,  and  science.  In  addition,  the  curriculum  included  phys- 
ical education  and  manual  work.  French  language  instruction 
began  in  the  second  year.  Khmer  was  the  language  of  instruc- 
tion in  the  first  cycle,  but  French  was  used  in  the  second  cycle 
and  thereafter.  By  the  early  1970s,  Khmer  was  used  more  widely 
in  primary  education.  In  the  1980s,  primary  school  ran  from  the 
first  to  the  fourth  grade.  Theoretically  one  primary  school  served 
each  village.  Secondary  education  also  was  divided  into  two 
cycles,  one  of  four  years  taught  at  a  college,  followed  by  one  of 
three  years  taught  at  a  lycee.  Upon  completion  of  the  first  cycle, 
students  could  take  a  state  examination.  Successful  candidates 
received  a  secondary  diploma.  Upon  completion  of  the  first  two 
years  of  the  second  cycle,  students  could  take  a  state  examina- 
tion for  the  first  baccalaureate,  and,  following  their  final  year, 
they  could  take  a  similar  examination  for  the  second  baccalaure- 
ate. The  Cambodian  secondary  curriculum  was  similar  to  that 
found  in  France.  Beginning  in  1967,  the  last  three  years  of  second- 
ary school  were  split  up  into  three  sections  according  to  major 
subjects — letters,  mathematics  and  technology;  agriculture;  and 
biology.  In  the  late  1960s  and  the  early  1970s,  the  country  em- 
phasized a  technical  education.  In  the  PRK,  secondary  educa- 
tion was  reduced  to  six  years  (see  table  4,  Appendix  A). 


126 


Students  at  rehearsal  during  a  revival  of  classical  ballet 

Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


Higher  education  lagged  well  behind  primary  and  secondary  edu- 
cation, until  the  late  1950s.  The  only  facility  in  the  country  for 
higher  education  before  the  1960s  was  the  National  Institute  of 
Legal,  Political,  and  Economic  Studies,  which  trained  civil  servants. 
In  the  late  1950s,  it  had  about  250  students.  Wealthy  Cambodi- 
ans and  those  who  had  government  scholarships  sought  university- 
level  education  abroad.  Students  attended  schools  in  France,  but 
after  independence  increasing  numbers  enrolled  at  universities  in 
the  United  States,  Canada,  China,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  Ger- 
man Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany).  By  1970  six  universi- 
ties with  a  total  enrollment  of  nearly  9,000  students  served 
Cambodia.  The  largest,  the  University  of  Phnom  Penh,  had  nearly 
4,570  male  students  and  more  than  730  female  students  in  eight 
departments — letters  and  humanities,  science  and  technology,  law 
and  economics,  medicine,  pharmacy,  commercial  science,  teacher 
training,  and  higher  teacher  training.  Universities  operated  in  the 
provinces  of  Kampong  Cham,  Takev,  Batdambang;  and  in  Phnom 
Penh,  the  University  of  Agricultural  Sciences  and  the  University 
of  Fine  Arts  offered  training.  The  increased  fighting  following  the 
1970  coup  closed  the  three  provincial  universities. 

During  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime,  education  was  dealt  a  severe 
setback,  and  the  great  strides  made  in  literacy  and  in  education 


127 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

during  the  two  decades  following  independence  were  obliterated 
systematically.  Schools  were  closed,  and  educated  people  and 
teachers  were  subjected  to,  at  the  least,  suspicion  and  harsh  treat- 
ment and,  at  the  worst,  execution.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1970s, 
more  than  20,000  teachers  lived  in  Cambodia;  only  about  5,000 
of  the  teachers  remained  10  years  later.  Soviet  sources  report  that 
90  percent  of  all  teachers  were  killed  under  the  Khmer  Rouge  re- 
gime. Only  50  of  the  725  university  instructors,  207  of  the  2,300 
secondary  school  teachers,  and  2,717  of  the  21,311  primary  school 
teachers  survived.  The  meager  educational  fare  was  centered  on 
precepts  of  the  Khmer  revolution;  young  people  were  rigidly  in- 
doctrinated, but  literacy  was  neglected,  and  an  entire  generation 
of  Cambodian  children  grew  up  illiterate.  After  the  Khmer  Rouge 
were  driven  from  power,  the  educational  system  had  to  be  re-created 
from  almost  nothing.  Illiteracy  had  climbed  to  more  than  40  per- 
cent, and  most  young  people  under  the  age  of  14  lacked  any  basic 
education. 

Education  began  making  a  slow  comeback,  following  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  PRK.  In  1986  the  following  main  institutions  of 
higher  education  were  reported  in  the  PRK:  the  Faculty  of  Medi- 
cine and  Pharmacy  (reopened  in  1980  with  a  six-year  course  of 
study);  the  Chamcar  Daung  Faculty  of  Agriculture  (opened  in 
1985);  the  Kampuchea-USSR  Friendship  Technical  Institute  (which 
includes  technical  and  engineering  curricula),  the  Institute  of  Lan- 
guages (Vietnamese,  German,  Russian,  and  Spanish  are  taught); 
the  Institute  of  Commerce,  the  Center  for  Pedagogical  Education 
(formed  in  1979);  the  Normal  Advanced  School;  and  the  School 
of  Fine  Arts.  Writing  about  the  educational  system  under  the  PRK, 
Vickery  states,  "Both  the  government  and  the  people  have  demon- 
strated enthusiasm  for  education  ....  The  list  of  subjects  covered 
is  little  different  from  that  of  prewar  years.  There  is  perhaps  more 
time  devoted  to  Khmer  language  and  literature  than  before  the  war 
and,  until  the  1984-85  school  year,  at  least,  no  foreign  language 
instruction."  He  notes  that  the  secondary  school  syllabus  calls  for 
four  hours  of  foreign  language  instruction  per  week  in  either  Rus- 
sian, German,  or  Vietnamese  but  that  there  were  no  teachers 
available . 

Martin  describes  the  educational  system  in  the  PRK  as  based 
very  closely  on  the  Vietnamese  model,  pointing  out  that  even  the 
terms  for  primary  and  secondary  education  have  been  changed  into 
direct  translations  of  the  Vietnamese  terms.  Under  the  PRK  re- 
gime, according  to  Martin,  the  primary  cycle  had  four  instead  of 
six  classes,  the  first  level  of  secondary  education  had  three  instead 
of  four  classes,  and  the  second  level  of  secondary  education  had 


128 


129 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

three  classes.  Martin  writes  that  not  every  young  person  could  go 
to  school  because  schooling  both  in  towns  and  in  the  countryside 
required  enrollment  fees.  Civil  servants  pay  25  riels  (for  value  of 
the  riel — see  Glossary)  per  month  to  send  a  child  to  school,  and 
others  pay  up  to  150  riels  per  month.  Once  again,  according  to 
Martin,  "Access  to  tertiary  studies  is  reserved  for  children  whose 
parents  work  for  the  regime  and  have  demonstrated  proof  of  their 
loyalty  to  the  regime. ' '  She  writes  that,  from  the  primary  level  on, 
the  contents  of  all  textbooks  except  for  alphabet  books  was  politi- 
cally oriented  and  dealt  "more  specifically  with  Vietnam."  From 
the  beginning  of  the  secondary  cycle,  Vietnamese  language  study 
was  compulsory. 

Buddhist  Education 

Before  the  French  organized  a  Western- style  educational  system, 
the  Buddhist  wat,  with  monks  as  teachers,  provided  the  only  for- 
mal education  in  Cambodia.  The  monks  traditionally  regarded  their 
main  educational  function  as  the  teaching  of  Buddhist  doctrine  and 
history  and  the  importance  of  gaining  merit.  Other  subjects  were 
regarded  as  secondary.  At  the  wat  schools,  young  boys — girls  were 
not  allowed  to  study  in  these  institutions — were  taught  to  read  and 
to  write  Khmer,  and  they  were  instructed  in  the  rudiments  of 
Buddhism. 

In  1933  a  secondary  school  system  for  novice  monks  was  created 
within  the  Buddhist  religious  system.  Many  wat  schools  had  so- 
called  Pali  schools  that  provided  three  years  of  elementary  educa- 
tion from  which  the  student  could  compete  for  entrance  into  the 
Buddhist  lycees.  Graduates  of  these  lycees  could  sit  for  the  entrance 
examination  to  the  Buddhist  University  in  Phnom  Penh.  The  cur- 
riculum of  the  Buddhist  schools  consisted  of  the  study  of  Pali,  of 
Buddhist  doctrine,  and  of  Khmer,  along  with  mathematics,  Cam- 
bodian history  and  geography,  science,  hygiene,  civics,  and  agricul- 
ture. Buddhist  instruction  was  under  the  authority  of  the  Ministry 
of  Religion. 

Nearly  600  Buddhist  primary  schools,  with  an  enrollment  of  more 
than  10,000  novices  and  with  800  monks  as  instructors,  existed 
in  1962.  The  Preah  Suramarit  Buddhist  Lycee — a  four-year  insti- 
tution in  Phnom  Penh  founded  in  1955 — included  courses  in  Pali, 
in  Sanskrit,  and  in  Khmer,  as  well  as  in  many  modern  disciplines. 
In  1962  the  student  body  numbered  680.  The  school's  graduates 
could  continue  their  studies  in  the  Preah  Sihanouk  Raj  Buddhist 
University  created  in  1959.  The  university  offered  three  cycles  of 
instruction;  the  doctoral  degree  was  awarded  after  successful  com- 
pletion of  the  third  cycle.  In  1962  there  were  107  students  enrolled 


130 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


in  the  Buddhist  University.  By  the  1969-70  academic  year,  more 
than  27,000  students  were  attending  Buddhist  religious  elemen- 
tary schools,  1,328  students  were  at  Buddhist  lycees,  and  176  stu- 
dents were  enrolled  at  the  Buddhist  University. 

The  Buddhist  Institute  was  a  research  institution  formed  in  1930 
from  the  Royal  Library.  The  institute  contained  a  library,  record 
and  photograph  collections,  and  a  museum.  Several  commissions 
were  part  of  the  institute.  A  folklore  commission  published  collec- 
tions of  Cambodian  folktales,  a  Tripitaka  Commission  completed 
a  translation  of  the  Buddhist  canon  into  Khmer,  and  a  dictionary 
commission  produced  a  definitive  two- volume  dictionary  of  Khmer. 
No  information  was  available  in  1987  regarding  the  fate  of  the  tem- 
ple schools,  but  it  is  doubtful  that  they  were  revived  after  the  fall 
of  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime. 

Private  Education 

For  a  portion  of  the  urban  population  in  Cambodia,  private  edu- 
cation was  important  in  the  years  before  the  communist  takeover. 
Some  private  schools  were  operated  by  ethnic  or  religious  minori- 
ties— Chinese,  Vietnamese,  European,  Roman  Catholic,  and  Mus- 
lim— so  that  children  could  study  their  own  language,  culture,  or 
religion.  Other  schools  provided  education  to  indigenous  children 
who  could  not  gain  admission  to  a  public  school.  Attendance  at 
some  of  the  private  schools,  especially  those  in  Phnom  Penh,  con- 
ferred a  certain  amount  of  prestige  on  the  student  and  on  the  stu- 
dent's family. 

The  private  educational  system  included  Chinese-language 
schools,  Vietnamese-language  (often  Roman  Catholic)  schools, 
French-language  schools,  English-language  schools,  and  Khmer- 
language  schools.  Enrollment  in  private  primary  schools  rose  from 
32,000  in  the  early  1960s  to  about  53,500  in  1970,  although  en- 
rollment in  private  secondary  schools  dropped  from  about  19,000 
to  fewer  than  8,700  for  the  same  period.  In  1962  there  were  195 
Chinese  schools,  40  Khmer  schools,  15  Vietnamese  schools,  and 
14  French  schools  operating  in  Cambodia.  Private  secondary  edu- 
cation was  represented  by  several  high  schools,  notably  the  Lycee 
Descartes  in  Phnom  Penh. 

All  of  the  Vietnamese  schools  in  Phnom  Penh  and  some  of  the 
Chinese  schools  there  were  closed  by  government  decree  in  1970. 
There  was  no  information  available  in  1987  that  would  have  in- 
dicated the  presence  of  any  private  schools  in  the  PRK,  although 
there  was  some  private  instruction,  especially  in  foreign  lan- 
guages. 


131 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Health  and  Welfare 

The  government  made  a  great  effort  to  train  new  medical  per- 
sonnel, especially  nurses  and  midwives,  following  independence 
in  1953.  By  the  late  1950s,  however,  infant  mortality  reportedly 
was  as  high  as  50  percent.  Dysentery,  malaria,  yaws,  tuberculo- 
sis, trachoma,  various  skin  diseases,  and  parasitic  diseases  were 
common.  Inadequate  nutrition,  poor  sanitary  conditions,  poor 
hygiene  practices,  and  a  general  lack  of  adequate  medical  treat- 
ment combined  to  give  the  average  Cambodian  a  life  expectancy 
of  about  forty- six  years  by  the  late  1960s.  This  figure  represented 
a  significant  increase  from  the  thirty-year  life  expectancy  reported 
a  decade  earlier.  The  catastrophic  effects  of  the  war  and  Khmer 
Rouge  rule  reversed  this  positive  trend.  During  the  unrest,  many 
Western- trained  physicians  were  killed  or  fled  the  country.  Modern 
medicines  were  in  short  supply,  and  traditional  herbal  remedies 
were  used. 

Public  Health 

According  to  traditional  Cambodian  beliefs,  disease  may  be 
caused  by  some  underlying  spiritual  cause.  Evil  spirits  or  "bad  air" 
are  believed  to  cause  many  diseases  and  can  be  expelled  from  the 
body  of  a  sick  person  by  trained  practitioners,  who  may  be  tradi- 
tional healers — bonzes,  former  bonzes,  herbalists,  folk  healers — 
or  Western-trained  doctors  and  nurses.  Aside  from  a  wide  variety 
of  herbal  remedies,  traditional  healing  practices  include  scrap- 
ing the  skin  with  a  coin,  ring,  or  other  small  object;  sprinkling  or 
spraying  water  on  the  sick  person;  and  prayer.  The  use  of  cup- 
ping glasses  (in  French,  ventouse)  continued  in  widespread  use  in 
the  late  1980s. 

Sanitation  practices  in  rural  Cambodia  are  often  primitive.  The 
water  supply  is  the  main  problem;  rivers  and  streams  are  common 
sources  of  drinking  water  and  of  water  for  cooking.  These  water 
sources  are  often  the  same  ones  used  for  bathing,  washing  clothes, 
and  disposing  of  waste  products.  Adequate  sewage  disposal  is  non- 
existent in  most  rural  and  suburban  areas.  Sanitary  conditions  in 
the  largest  urban  areas — Phnom  Penh,  Batdambang  city,  and  Kam- 
pong  Cham  city — were  much  improved  over  the  conditions  in  the 
rural  areas,  however.  By  the  early  1970s,  Phnom  Penh  had  three 
water  purification  plants,  which  were  adequate  for  the  peacetime 
population  but  could  not  provide  safe  water  when  the  city's  popu- 
lation increased  significantly  in  the  mid-1970s.  The  city  had  regu- 
lar garbage  collection,  and  sewage  was  usually  disposed  of  in  septic 
tanks. 


132 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  medical  situation  in  Cambodia  faced  its  first  crisis  at  the 
time  of  independence  in  1953.  Many  French  medical  personnel 
departed,  and  few  trained  Cambodians  were  left  to  replace  them. 
In  addition  to  a  lack  of  personnel,  a  shortage  of  medical  supplies 
and  facilities  threatened  health  care.  To  correct  the  first  problem, 
in  1953  the  government  established  a  school  of  medicine  and  a 
school  of  nursing,  the  Royal  Faculty  of  Medicine  of  Cambodia 
(which  became  the  Faculty  of  Medicine,  Pharmacy,  and  Paramed- 
ical Science  in  1972,  and  probably  the  Faculty  of  Medicine  and 
Pharmacy  which  reopened  in  1980).  The  first  class  of  candidates 
for  the  degree  of  doctor  of  medicine  was  enrolled  in  1958.  In  1962 
this  school  became  part  of  the  University  of  Phnom  Penh,  and  in 
1967  it  expanded  its  teaching  program  to  include  training  for  den- 
tists and  for  medical  specialists  (see  Public  School  System,  this  ch.). 
By  the  late  1960s,  trained  Cambodian  instructors  began  replacing 
foreign  personnel  at  the  Faculty  of  Medicine,  and  by  1971  thirty- 
three  Cambodian  medical  instructors  represented  sixteen  special- 
ized branches  of  medical  study. 

A  school  for  training  nurses  and  midwives  was  operating  before 

1970.  This  institution  also  trained  sanitation  agents,  who  received 
four  years  of  medical  training  with  emphasis  on  sanitation  and  on 
preventive  medicine.  These  agents  provided  medical  services  for 
areas  where  there  were  no  doctors  or  clinics.  The  number  of  nurses 
trained  almost  quintupled  between  1955  and  1970.  In  Cambodia, 
nursing  careers  had  been  primarily  reserved  for  men,  but  the  num- 
ber of  women  entering  the  field  greatly  increased  after  1955.  Mid- 
wives  delivered  almost  half  of  the  babies  in  the  early  1970s.  In 
March  1970,  eighty-one  pharmacists  practiced  in  government- 
controlled  areas.  By  1971  the  number  had  dropped  to  sixty  three. 

Cambodia  never  has  had  an  adequate  number  of  hospitals  or 
clinics.  In  1930  there  was  only  a  single  450-bed  hospital  serving 
Phnom  Penh.  By  1953  however,  122  public  medical  establishments 
operated  in  Cambodia,  and,  between  1955  and  1970,  many  im- 
provements were  made  by  the  royal  government.  Old  hospital  build- 
ings were  replaced  or  repaired,  and  new  ones  were  constructed. 
In  1962  provincial  hospitals,  along  with  many  infirmaries,  oper- 
ated in  all  but  three  provincial  capitals.  By  March  1970,  29  hospi- 
tals, with  a  total  of  6,186  beds,  were  in  operation;  by  September 

1971,  however,  only  13  still  functioned. 

Phnom  Penh  had  greater  hospital  resources  than  other  parts  of 
the  country.  In  the  late  1960s,  hospitals  served  inhabitants  in  the 
surrounding  area  as  well  as  residents  of  the  city.  At  that  time,  seven 
hospitals  (including  five  teaching  institutions),  several  private  clinics, 
twenty- two  public  dispensaries  or  infirmaries,  and  six  military 


133 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

infirmaries  operated  as  well.  The  major  hospitals  in  Phnom  Penh 
were  the  Preah  Ket  Mealea  Hospital,  the  largest  in  the  country 
with  1 ,000  beds,  which  was  built  in  1893;  the  500-bed  Soviet-Khmer 
Friendship  Hospital,  built  in  1960;  the  Preah  Monivong  military 
hospital  complexes;  the  French-operated  Calmette  Hospital;  a 
Buddhist  monks'  hospital;  and  a  Chinese  hospital.  Eight  of  the 
eighteen  operating  theaters  in  Cambodia  in  the  late  1960s  were 
in  Phnom  Penh. 

A  leprosarium  in  Kampong  Cham  Province  provided  care  for 
about  2,000  patients,  and  the  Sonn  Mann  Mental  Hospital  at  Ta 
Khmau  provided  care  for  300  patients.  In  1971  Sonn  Mann  had 
about  1 , 100  patients  and  a  staff  of  six  doctors,  twenty- two  nurses, 
one  midwife,  fifty-four  administrative  employees,  and  eighty-nine 
guards. 

Modern  medical  practices  and  pharmaceuticals  have  been  scarce 
in  Cambodia  since  the  early  1970s.  The  situation  deteriorated  so 
badly  between  1975  and  1979  that  the  population  had  to  resort  to 
traditional  remedies.  A  Cambodian  refugee  described  a  hospital 
in  Batdambang  Province  in  the  early  days  of  the  Khmer  Rouge 
regime:  "...  the  sick  were  thrown  into  a  big  room  baptized  'Ang- 
kar  Hospital,'  where  conditions  were  miserable.  Phnom  Srok  had 
one,  where  there  were  300  to  600  sick  people  'nursed'  by  Red 
Khmer,  who  used  traditional  medicines  produced  from  all  sorts 
of  tree  rooths  [sic].  Only  few  stayed  alive.  The  Red  Khmer  ex- 
plained to  us  that  the  healing  methods  of  our  ancestors  must  be 
used  and  that  nothing  should  be  taken  from  the  Western  medi- 
cine." International  aid  produced  more  medicine  after  1979,  and 
there  was  a  flourishing  black  market  in  medicines,  especially  anti- 
biotics, at  exorbitant  prices.  Three  small  pharmaceutical  factories 
in  Phnom  Penh  in  1 983  produced  about  ten  tons  of  pharmaceuti- 
cals. Tetracycline  and  ampicillin  were  being  produced  in  limited 
amounts  in  Phnom  Penh,  according  to  1985  reports.  The  PRK 
government  emphasized  traditional  medicine  to  cover  the  gap  in 
its  knowledge  of  modern  medical  technologies.  Each  health  center 
on  the  province,  district,  and  subdistrict  level  had  a  kru  (teacher), 
specializing  in  traditional  herbal  remedies,  attached  to  it.  An  in- 
ventory of  medicinal  plants  was  being  conducted  in  each  province 
in  the  late  1980s. 

In  1979  according  to  observer  Andrea  Panaritis,  of  the  more  than 
500  physicians  practicing  in  Cambodia  before  1975,  only  45  re- 
mained. In  the  same  year,  728  students  returned  to  the  Faculty 
of  Medicine.  The  faculty,  with  practically  no  trained  Cambodian 
instructors  available,  relied  heavily  on  teachers,  advisers,  and 
material  aid  from  Vietnam.  Classes  were  being  conducted  in  both 


134 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Khmer  and  French;  sophisticated  Western  techniques  and  surgi- 
cal methods  were  taught  alongside  traditional  Khmer  healing 
methods.  After  some  early  resistance,  the  medical  faculty  and  stu- 
dents seemed  to  have  accepted  the  importance  of  preventive  medi- 
cine and  public  health.  The  improvement  in  health  care  under  the 
PRK  was  illustrated  by  a  Soviet  report  about  the  hospital  in  Kam- 
pong  Spoe.  In  1979  it  had  a  staff  of  three  nurses  and  no  doctor. 
By  1985  the  hospital  had  a  thirty-three-member  professional  staff 
that  included  a  physician  from  Vietnam  and  two  doctors  and  three 
nurses  from  Hungary.  The  Soviet-Khmer  Friendship  Hospital  re- 
opened with  sixty  beds  in  mid- 1982.  By  1983  six  adequate  civilian 
hospitals  in  Phnom  Penh  and  nineteen  dispensaries  scattered  around 
the  capital  provided  increasing  numbers  of  medical  services.  Well- 
organized  provincial  hospitals  also  were  reported  in  Batdambang, 
Takev,  Kampong  Thum,  and  Kandal  provinces.  Panaritis  reports 
that  rudimentary  family  planning  existed  in  the  PRK  in  the  mid- 
1980s,  and  that  obstetrics  stressed  prenatal  and  nutritional  care. 
The  government  did  not  actively  promote  birth  control,  but  re- 
quests for  abortions  and  tubal  ligations  have  been  noted  in  some 
reports.  Condoms  and  birth  control  pills  were  available,  although 
the  pills  had  to  be  brought  in  from  Bangkok  or  Singapore. 

As  of  late  1987,  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh  had  dissemi- 
nated no  information  on  the  spread  of  the  Acquired  Immuno- 
Deficiency  Syndrome  (AIDS  or  HIV  virus)  in  Cambodia.  In  ad- 
dition, the  list  of  common  illnesses  in  Cambodia,  as  reported  by 
international  organizations,  does  not  mention  Karposi's  sarcoma 
and  pneumo-cystic  pneumonia  (PCP),  the  most  common  compli- 
cations resulting  from  infection  by  the  HIV  virus.  The  risk  to  the 
Cambodian  population  of  contamination  by  carriers  of  the  HIV 
virus  carriers  comes  from  two  sources.  The  more  likely  of  the  two 
consists  of  infected,  illegal  border-crossers,  including  insurgents, 
from  Thailand,  where  authorities  identified  a  hundred  cases  of 
AIDS  in  1987  (triple  the  number  in  1986).  Less  likely  is  the  risk 
of  infection  from  legal  travelers.  Cambodia  remains  a  closed  coun- 
try, and  access  by  foreigners  (except  for  Vietnamese,  Soviet,  and 
East  European  visitors)  is  limited  to  a  few  scholars  and  to  mem- 
bers of  international  and  private  aid  organizations. 

Welfare  Programs 

Steinberg  cites  twelfth-century  King  Jayavarman  VII  as  hav- 
ing begun  a  public  welfare  system  in  Cambodia.  Jayavarman  built 
public  rest  houses  along  the  roads,  distributed  rice  to  the  needy, 
and  banned  tax  collectors  from  places  where  the  sick  were  cared 
for. 


135 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Beginning  in  1936,  the  French  colonial  authorities  passed  legis- 
lation affecting  the  hours  of  work,  the  wages,  and  the  worker's  com- 
pensation for  foreign  employees.  Later,  Cambodians  were  covered. 
A  system  of  family  allotments  was  instituted  in  1955.  Under  this 
system,  employers  were  required  to  contribute  a  monthly  sum  for 
the  welfare  of  the  worker's  family. 

A  few  welfare  organizations  were  established  in  Cambodia  under 
the  Sihanouk  regime.  In  1949  the  National  Mutual  Help  Associa- 
tion was  founded  to  provide  money,  food,  and  clothing  to  the  needy. 
In  1951  the  Cambodian  Red  Cross  was  organized  to  provide  aid 
to  disaster  victims,  especially  those  suffering  from  floods.  The 
Women's  Mutual  Health  Association  was  formed  in  1953.  It  was 
associated  with  the  Preah  Ket  Mealea  Hospital  in  Phnom  Penh, 
where  it  provided  prenatal  and  child  care.  During  the  1950s,  the 
Association  of  Vietnamese  in  Cambodia  opened  a  dispensary  in 
Phnom  Penh.  The  most  ubiquitous  source  of  assistance  for  the  aver- 
age Cambodian,  however,  was  the  network  of  Buddhist  wats  that 
extended  down  to  the  grass  roots  level.  Also,  relatives  and,  in  the 
case  of  the  Chinese,  extended  families  and  business  associations 
provided  assistance  to  needy  members. 

In  the  PRK  under  the  government's  gradual  evolution  toward 
Marxist- Leninist  socialism,  the  ability  of  the  wat  to  extend  charitable 
aid  was  seriously  impaired  because  these  institutions  existed  in  con- 
ditions of  near  penury,  following  their  active  suppression  under 
the  Khmer  Rouge,  and  they  were  barely  tolerated  by  the  PRK  re- 
gime. Instead,  fragmentary  evidence  suggests  that  public  welfare 
was  decentralized  and,  because  of  the  paucity  of  resources,  received 
only  small  amounts  in  funds  from  the  central  government.  Accord- 
ing to  available  literature,  the  care  of  needy  persons  was  entrusted 
to  local  party  and  government  committees  and,  at  the  lowest  eche- 
lon, to  krom  samaki  (solidarity  groups).  Leaders  at  these  grass-roots 
levels  thus  were  able  to  evaluate  true  need  and  to  extend  aid  vary- 
ing from  in-kind  assistance  to  informal  job  placement.  Such  de- 
centralization avoided  the  bureaucratization  of  welfare  but,  at  the 
same  time,  it  carried  its  own  potential  for  abuse  because  aid  could 
be  apportioned  on  the  basis  of  fidelity  to  regime  and  to  party,  or 
even  to  enforce  loyalty  to  local  leaders.  The  extension  to  the  local 
level  of  such  social  services,  however,  indicated  that  the  PRK  was 
slowly  extending  its  presence  in  the  countryside,  thus  reinforcing 
its  claim  of  nationhood,  and  its  control  over  its  territory  and  over 
Cambodian  society  at  large. 

*     *  * 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  most  important  published  sources  on  the  geography  of  Cam- 
bodia are  Ashok  K.  Dutt's  collection  of  articles  in  Southeast  Asia: 
Realm  of  Contrasts  and  David  J.  Steinberg's  chapters  in  Cambodia, 
Its  People,  Its  Society,  Its  Culture.  Among  the  major  resources  on  Cam- 
bodian society  are  Jean  Delvert's  Le  Cambodge,  a  major  study  of 
Cambodian  peasants;  May  Mayko  Ebihara's  dissertation,  "Svay: 
A  Khmer  Village  in  Cambodia";  and  Gabrielle  Martel's  Lovea, 
village  des  environs  d} Angkor.  Frank  M.  Le  Bar,  Gerald  C.  Hickey, 
and  John  K.  Musgrave's  Ethnic  Groups  of  Mainland  Southeast  Asia 
provides  useful  but  somewhat  dated  sketches  of  the  Khmer  and 
several  of  the  ethnic  minorities  in  Cambodia.  Cambodge:  Faits  et 
Problemes  de  Population  by  Jacques  Migozzi  and  "Kampuchea:  A 
Country  Adrift"  by  Ea  Meng  Try  are  useful  studies  of  the  popu- 
lation of  Cambodia  before  and  after  the  Khmer  Rouge  takeover. 
The  various  works  of  Michael  Vickery,  Ben  Kiernan,  and  Marie 
Martin  provide  data  on  Cambodia  under  the  Khmer  Rouge  and 
PRK  regimes.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


137 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Economic  activity  in  Cambodia:  Collecting  palm  sugar 
a  bamboo  ampong,  net  fishing  on  the  Mekong  River, 
selling  in  a  village  market. 


THE  ECONOMY  OF  CAMBODIA  in  the  late  1980s  was  domi- 
nated by  subsistence  agriculture;  the  industrial  sector  was  still  in 
its  infancy.  After  it  came  to  power  in  1979,  the  new,  Vietnamese- 
installed  government  in  Phnom  Penh  set  restoration  of  the  nation's 
self-sufficiency  in  food,  a  situation  that  the  country  had  enjoyed 
throughout  prewar  times,  as  a  major  goal.  A  persistent  guerrilla 
war  and  a  ravaged  infrastructure  impeded  the  achievement  of  this 
goal  and  of  economic  recovery  in  general,  however.  At  the  Fifth 
Party  Congress  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B),  held  in  Phnom  Penh  from 
October  13  to  October  16,  1985,  General  Secretary  Heng  Samrin 
laid  claim  to  some  "important  successes  in  agricultural  produc- 
tion" in  his  political  report.  At  the  same  time,  he  acknowledged 
that  the  country's  "backward  and  unbalanced"  economy  still  faced 
tremendous  difficulties,  including  shortages  of  fuel,  spare  parts, 
raw  materials,  skilled  labor,  and  a  cadre  of  professionals  possess- 
ing technical  expertise  and  economic  management  skills.  In  short, 
the  country's  material  and  technical  bases  had  not  been  restored 
to  prewar  levels.  Prior  to  its  adjournment,  the  KPRP  Congress 
adopted  the  First  Five-Year  Program  of  Socioeconomic  Restora- 
tion and  Development  (1986-90),  hereafter  referred  to  as  the  First 
Plan. 

In  1987  there  were  signs  that  reforms  legalizing  private  enter- 
prise were  revitalizing  the  country's  economy.  Small  industrial  en- 
terprises reopened,  and  transportation  and  telecommunication 
systems  were  partially  restored.  As  private  market  activities  re- 
sumed, the  population  of  Phnom  Penh  grew  from  50,000  in 
1978— the  last  year  of  the  Pol  Pot  regime— to  700,000.  Economic 
revitalization  also  occurred  at  Kampong  Saom  (formerly  known 
as  Sihanoukville),  Cambodia's  only  seaport  and  its  second  largest 
city,  which  resumed  its  pre- 1975  industrial  and  shipping  activities. 

Economic  rehabilitation  has  been  precarious  and  has  been 
plagued  by  uncontrollable  factors,  such  as  adverse  weather  and  seri- 
ous security  problems.  In  1987  a  severe  drought  in  Southeast  Asia 
reduced  Cambodia's  rice  production.  According  to  a  senior  offi- 
cial of  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  estimated  production  of  milled 
rice  fell  that  year  to  approximately  1  million  tons,  about  300,000 
tons  below  the  level  of  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary)  1986.  (Cam- 
bodia needs  at  least  1.9  million  tons  of  rice  annually  for  a  popula- 
tion of  6.5  million). 


141 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  prospects  for  Cambodia's  economic  revitalization  were  poor 
in  the  late  1980s.  The  country's  infrastructure  was  both  weak  and 
unstable.  Factories  and  workshops,  lacking  electricity  and  supplies, 
operated  only  intermittently  and  at  low  capacity.  The  economy  re- 
lied heavily — and  almost  completely  after  1980 — on  foreign  aid  from 
communist  countries,  particularly  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  So- 
cialist Republic  of  Vietnam  (Vietnam);  Western  nations,  Japan, 
and  China  had  terminated  economic  assistance  to  Cambodia  in 
1980  to  protest  the  presence  of  Vietnamese  troops  in  that  country. 
According  to  General  Secretary  Samrin,  Cambodia  would  require 
"dozens  of  years"  to  restore  its  economy  and  to  accomplish  "a 
gradual  passage  toward  socialism."  Internationally,  Cambodia  in 
the  future  may  have  the  option  of  joining  the  Council  for  Mutual 
Economic  Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon — see  Glos- 
sary). If  the  Vietnamese  troops  leave,  the  country  also  may  be 
offered  some  form  of  economic  cooperation  by  other  Asian  and 
Western  nations.  In  either  case,  however,  Cambodia  is  very  poor, 
produces  littie,  and  is  not  likely  to  prove  an  enticing  economic  part- 
ner. For  this  reason,  in  the  forging  of  new  economic  links  with  the 
East  and  with  the  West,  the  country  is  likely  to  be  relegated  to  a 
passive  role,  and  the  initiative  will  probably  belong  to  the  larger 
states,  who  will  decide  on  what  terms  to  share  their  largesse  with 
Cambodia. 

Because  of  insufficient  and  inconsistent — and  therefore  unreli- 
able— data,  analysis  of  Cambodia's  war-torn  economy  can  only 
be  tentative.  In  the  late  1980s,  key  economic  indicators  were  missing 
or  were  difficult  to  reconcile,  particularly  for  the  Pol  Pot  period 
(1975-78).  Since  1979  government  economic  publications  have  been 
scarce,  and  official  statistics  represent  targets  and  estimates  spelled 
out  in  the  country's  economic  development  plans  rather  than  ac- 
tual figures. 

Economic  Setting 

Seasonal  monsoons  and  diverse  topography  significantiy  influence 
Cambodia's  economy  (see  Environment,  ch.  2).  The  southwest 
monsoon  brings  the  rainy  season  (May  to  October),  which  is  suit- 
able for  planting  and  growing  the  rice  seedlings,  and  the  northeast 
monsoon  sends  back  dry  air  (November  to  March),  which  makes 
possible  the  paddy  harvest. 

The  country's  lakes  and  rivers  also  affect  the  economy.  They 
are  an  abundant  source  of  fish,  a  mainstay  of  the  Cambodian  diet, 
and  they  make  possible  irrigated  agriculture,  on  which  the  coun- 
try depends  for  its  livelihood  (see  Climate,  ch.  2).  The  principal 
waterway,  the  Mekong  River,  is  an  important  trade  route  and 


142 


The  Economy 


avenue  of  communication.  Since  ancient  times,  the  Tonle  Sap 
(Great  Lake),  the  Tonle  Sab  and  the  Mekong  rivers,  and  their  tribu- 
taries have  been  centers  of  economic  and  political  power.  Phnom 
Penh — the  site  of  the  royal  residence,  the  administrative  capital, 
and,  in  general,  the  locus  of  power,  of  culture,  and  of  business — is 
situated  at  the  junction  of  the  Tonle  Sab  and  the  Mekong. 

Natural  Resources 

Metals  and  Minerals 

In  general,  Cambodia's  mineral  resources  appear  to  be  limited. 
In  the  late  1950s  and  throughout  the  1960s,  however,  exploration 
by  Chinese  experts  in  Kampong  Thum  Province  disclosed  com- 
mercially exploitable  deposits  of  iron  ore  amounting  to  about  5.2 
million  tons.  Western  sources  indicated  possible  reserves  of  high- 
grade  iron  ore,  ranging  from  2.5  million  to  4.8  million  tons,  in 
the  northern  part  of  the  country.  Chinese  explorations  also  revealed 
manganese  ore  reserves,  estimated  at  about  120,000  tons,  in  Kam- 
pong Thum  Province. 

Deposits  of  phosphate,  limestone,  and  clay  of  exploitable  qual- 
ity and  quantity  have  also  been  reported.  A  few  thousand  tons  of 
phosphate  are  extracted  annually  in  Kampot  Province  and  are 
processed  locally  or  at  a  small  plant  in  Batdambang  Province.  In 
addition,  salt  and  coal  also  may  be  present  in  Cambodia's  geolog- 
ical strata.  Rubies,  sapphires,  and  zircons  have  been  mined  since 
at  least  the  late  1800s,  mostly  at  Ba  Kev,  Stoeng  Treng  Province, 
and  at  Pailin,  Batdambang  Province.  Limited  gold  and  silver 
deposits  have  been  reported  in  several  parts  of  the  country. 

Hydroelectric  Power 

The  country's  hydroelectric  generating  potential  is  considera- 
ble, especially  from  the  swift  current  of  the  middle  Mekong  River 
where  it  flows  through  Stoeng  Treng  and  Kracheh  provinces.  Other 
sites  of  minor  importance  are  on  rivers  in  the  highlands  of  the  north- 
eastern and  north-central  parts  of  the  country.  Although  the  Tonle 
Sap  is  Cambodia's  dominant  hydraulic  feature,  the  rivers  flowing 
into  this  great  lake  have  littie  or  no  exploitable  potential.  In  general, 
development  of  the  country's  water  potential  appears  to  be  more 
important  for  the  expansion  of  irrigation  than  for  the  production 
of  electricity. 

Petroleum 

In  late  1969,  the  Cambodian  government  granted  a  permit  to 
a  French  company  to  explore  for  petroleum  in  the  Gulf  of  Thailand. 


143 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

By  1972  none  had  been  located,  and  exploration  ceased  when  the 
Khmer  Republic  (see  Appendix  B)  fell  in  1975.  Subsequent  oil  and 
gas  discoveries  in  the  Gulf  of  Thailand  and  in  the  South  China 
Sea,  however,  could  spark  renewed  interest  in  Cambodia's  offshore 
area,  especially  because  the  country  is  on  the  same  continental  shelf 
as  its  Southeast  Asian  oil-producing  neighbors. 

Forestry 

Another  natural  resource  is  the  forests,  which  cover  approxi- 
mately 70  percent  of  the  country  and  which  potentially  constitute 
a  second  pillar  of  the  economy  in  addition  to  the  primary  one, 
agriculture  (see  table  5).  A  survey  in  the  1960s  disclosed  that  Cam- 
bodia had  more  than  13  million  hectares  of  forests  that  contained 
many  species  of  tropical  growth  and  trees  but  not  teak  or  other 
valuable  sources  of  hardwood.  Some  destruction  of  the  forest  en- 
vironment undoubtedly  occurred  in  the  war  that  followed  in  the 
1970s,  but  its  extent  has  not  been  determined.  Most  of  the  heavy 
fighting  took  place  in  areas  uncovered  by  dense  tropical  jungle. 
As  of  late  1987,  forest  resources  had  not  yet  been  fully  exploited 
because  of  poor  security  in  the  countryside  and  a  lack  of  electrical 
and  mechanical  equipment,  such  as  power  tools  and  lumber  trucks. 
Nevertheless,  the  Cambodian  government  reportedly  has  discussed 
with  Vietnam  the  possibility  of  coordinated  reforestation  programs. 

Timber  and  firewood  are  the  main  forest  products.  Timber  is 
considered  one  of  the  four  economic  initiatives  of  the  government's 
First  Plan.  Timber  production  was  projected  to  reach  a  peak  of 
200,000  cubic  meters  in  1990. 

Labor  Force 

Cambodia  ranks  among  the  least  populated  Asian  nations  with 
an  estimated  1987  population  of  only  about  6.3  million  to  6.4  mil- 
lion. Its  density  of  approximately  36  persons  per  square  kilometer 
is  about  one-fifth  of  Vietnam's  population  density  of  187  persons 
per  square  kilometer.  The  First  Plan  set  the  population  growth  rate 
at  2.8  percent  per  year,  up  from  the  average  annual  growth  rate 
of  2.3  percent  for  the  1978  to  1985  period  (see  Population,  ch.  2). 

In  1987  observers  estimated  that  about  34.5  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation was  under  15  years  of  age  and  that  3  percent  was  62.5  or 
older.  An  estimated  63  percent  of  the  population  (or  about  4  mil- 
lion people)  were  between  the  ages  of  15  and  64.  The  economi- 
cally active  segment  of  the  population,  the  work  force,  was  probably 
around  3  million  people,  or  46  percent  of  the  total  population.  This 
estimated  percentage  of  the  labor  force  remained  relatively  con- 
stant from  1962 — when  the  census  showed  a  work  force  of  2.5 


144 


The  Economy 


million  people  out  of  a  total  population  of  5.73  million — until  the 
1980s. 

In  1983  all  public-sector  employees,  including  state  employees, 
armed  forces  personnel,  industrial  workers,  artisans,  teachers,  and 
party  cadres,  accounted  for  approximately  8  percent  of  an  econom- 
ically active  population  of  between  2.5  million  and  3  million.  Ap- 
proximately 80  percent  of  the  work  force  was  engaged  in  agriculture, 
in  forestry,  and  in  fishing. 

A  critical  shortage  of  qualified  and  professional  personnel 
emerged  as  technicians,  engineers,  skilled  workers,  and  trained 
managers  either  fled  the  country  or  fell  victim  to  executions  under 
the  Pol  Pot  regime.  In  1980  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  had  only 
200  technicians,  down  from  a  total  of  1,600  in  1975. 

Moreover,  the  continuing  conflict  diverted  part  of  the  work  force 
to  combat  zones  or  to  security-related  projects  (see  Military  De- 
velopments in  Postwar  Cambodia,  ch.  5).  In  March  1984,  the 
government  initiated  a  forced-labor  program,  employing  civilians 
in  ''national  defense  work"  to  seal  the  830  kilometers  of  frontier 
with  Thailand.  This  project,  code-named  K-5,  diverted  from  the 
labor  force  a  number  of  conscripts  (aged  18  to  45)  ranging  from 
25,000  to  30,000  for  each  province,  or  as  high  as  3,000  for  each 
district  of  Cambodia.  The  labor  shortage  constituted  a  major  im- 
pediment to  economic  progress,  a  point  stressed  by  Heng  Samrin 
at  the  Fifth  Party  Congress  when  he  said  that  "Labor  ...  is  scat- 
tered at  present  in  order  to  face  the  needs  of  the  struggle,"  adding 
that  the  "lack  of  qualified  labor  and  specialized  cadres  .  .  .  has 
prevented  us  from  ensuring  that  current  works  satisfy  the  require- 
ments for  development." 

Economic  Developments  after  Independence 

The  predominance  of  agriculture  and  the  lack — or  neglect — of 
real  industrial  development  have  characterized  Cambodia's  modern 
economy  since  independence  in  1953.  Wet  rice  cultivation  tradi- 
tionally has  played  a  key  role  in  peasant  subsistence,  in  national 
self-sufficiency  in  food  production,  in  trade  relations  with  other 
states,  and  in  governmental  revenues  for  national  development. 
Conversely,  the  government  has  made  few  attempts  to  industrial- 
ize the  nation. 

After  Cambodia  became  independent  in  1953,  the  country's  eco- 
nomic policies  were  shaped  by  the  succession  of  governments  that 
followed.  Prince  Sihanouk  opted  for  unconditional  aid  from  the 
East  and  from  the  West,  and  the  nation  made  modest  strides.  The 
Lon  Nol  government  would  have  adhered  to  a  laissez-faire  doc- 
trine, but  it  was  overwhelmed  by  the  war  around  it.  The  Khmer 


145 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Rouge  (see  Appendix  B)  adopted  a  fanatical  and  doctrinaire  self- 
reliance,  and  the  Cambodian  people  and  nation  were  ravaged  by 
it.  The  post- 1979  government  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Kam- 
puchea (PRK — see  Appendix  B),  with  its  Vietnamese  mentors,  ac- 
quiesced to  a  pragmatic  combination  of  socialism  and  small-scale 
capitalism,  and  the  country  achieved  some  limited  rehabilitative 
goals.  In  the  late  1980s,  government  policies  fundamentally  relied 
upon  the  nation's  own  sparse  resources — chiefly  agriculture,  a  na- 
scent industrial  base,  and  modest  foreign  aid  from  Comecon  coun- 
tries and  non- governmental  international  organizations. 

Sihanouk's  Peacetime  Economy,  1953-70 

Sihanouk's  political  neutrality,  which  formed  the  cornerstone  of 
his  foreign  policy,  had  a  significant  effect  on  Cambodia's  economic 
development.  Sihanouk  insisted  that  the  economic  dimension  of 
neutrality  meant  either  total  rejection  of  international  aid  (as  prac- 
ticed by  Burma  under  Ne  Win)  or  acceptance  of  foreign  economic 
assistance  from  all  countries  without  strings  attached.  Indeed,  dur- 
ing the  first  decade  that  he  was  in  power  in  newly  independent  Cam- 
bodia (1953-63),  the  prince  carefully  practiced  his  "purer  form 
of  neutrality  between  East  and  West"  in  seeking  foreign  economic 
assistance  for  development  (see  Cambodia  under  Sihanouk,  1954- 
70,  ch.  1). 

In  1963  however,  Cambodia's  economy  started  to  stagnate  when 
Sihanouk  decided  to  link  his  economic  neutrality  policy  to  the  coun- 
try's  territorial  integrity  and  border  security.  He  rejected  further 
assistance  from  the  United  States,  because  Washington  supported 
the  Republic  of  Vietnam  (South  Vietnam),  and  from  Thailand, 
with  which  Cambodia  had  continuous  frontier  disputes.  In  a  related 
move,  Sihanouk  nationalized  trading  companies,  banks,  insurance, 
and  major  industries,  thereby  causing  economic  deterioration  be- 
tween 1963  and  1969.  The  1967  Samlot  (Batdambang)  revolt  and 
the  February  1970  government  decision  to  demonetize  (or  exchange) 
the  old  500  riel  (for  value  of  the  riel — see  Glossary)  banknotes  were 
crucial  events  contributing  to  the  end  of  the  Sihanouk  era  (see  Into 
the  Maelstrom:  Insurrection  and  War,  1967-75,  ch.  1;  The  Sec- 
ond Indochina  War,  1954-75,  ch.  5). 

During  his  tenure  after  independence,  Sihanouk  used  the  coun- 
try's ill-defined  constitution  to  monitor  all  government  activities 
of  any  consequence  and  to  bend  the  government's  decision-making 
process  to  his  advantage.  During  the  course  of  nation  building, 
political  aims  often  prevailed  over  strictly  economic  objectives.  For 
example,  prior  to  1967,  the  government  assigned  higher  priority 
to  social  improvements,  such  as  health  and  education,  than  it  did 


146 


Young  peasant  woman 
pauses  during  the  rice  harvest 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


A  fruit  vendor 
awaits  customers  in  a 
Phnom  Penh  marketplace 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


147 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

to  national  economic  growth.  The  government  later  gave  higher 
priority  to  the  productive  sectors  of  agriculture  and  industry  in  eco- 
nomic plans  for  the  1968-72  periods;  however,  because  of  war, 
the  government  did  not  implement  these  plans. 

Nonetheless,  between  1952  and  1969,  Cambodia's  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  grew  an  average  of  5  percent  a  year 
in  real  terms,  with  growth  higher  during  the  1950s  than  during 
the  1960s.  In  addition,  the  service  sector  played  an  important  role 
in  Sihanouk's  mixed  economic  system  in  contrast  to  its  position 
under  the  regimes  of  Pol  Pot  and  of  Heng  Samrin,  who  considered 
the  service  sector  insignificant  and  "unproductive."  In  1968  the 
service  sector  accounted  for  more  than  1 5  percent  of  gross  domes- 
tic product  (GDP — see  Glossary),  agriculture  accounted  for  36  per- 
cent, and  manufacturing  for  12  percent. 

Agriculture  developed  under  a  degree  of  paternalism  from  Si- 
hanouk, who  donated  farm  equipment  to  various  villages  and,  in 
return,  received  respect  and  affection  from  the  peasants.  In  general, 
however,  Cambodian  agriculture  subsisted  without  much  help  from 
the  government.  In  1969  approximately  80  percent  of  rice  farm- 
ers owned  the  land  they  cultivated,  and  the  landholding  for  each 
family  averaged  slightly  more  than  two  hectares.  The  farmers  used 
simple  and  rudimentary  implements  that  were  well  suited  to  their 
needs  and  to  the  light  weight  of  their  draft  animals.  Overall,  the 
peasants  were  remarkably  self-sufficient. 

Farmers  began  to  cultivate  more  land,  causing  rice  production 
to  increase  from  an  average  of  1 .4  million  tons  in  1955  to  2.4  mil- 
lion tons  in  1960.  Production  remained  at  that  level  throughout 
the  1960s.  Rice  yield  per  hectare,  however,  remained  low — less 
than  1.2  tons  per  hectare — during  the  1952-69  period.  Little  was 
done  to  increase  yield  through  the  use  of  irrigation,  chemical  fer- 
tilizers, or  improved  seeds  and  implements.  Average  yields  in  Bat- 
dambang  and  Kampong  Cham  provinces,  however,  were  50  percent 
higher  than  the  national  average  because  of  better  soil  fertility  and, 
in  the  case  of  Batdambang,  larger  average  landholdings  and  greater 
use  of  machines  in  cultivation. 

Industrial  and  infrastructural  development  benefited  from  for- 
eign economic  assistance.  In  general,  the  government  avoided  am- 
bitious plans  and  focused  on  small  enterprises  to  meet  local  needs 
and  to  reduce  foreign  imports.  In  June  1956,  the  Chinese  provided 
Phnom  Penh  with  US$22.4  million  in  equipment  as  part  of  an  on- 
going program  of  industrial  economic  assistance.  In  addition,  they 
helped  build  a  textile  mill  and  a  glass  plant  in  the  1960s.  During 
this  period,  other  nations  contributed  through  aid  programs  of  their 
own.  Czechoslovakia  granted  loans  for  the  construction  of  tractor 


148 


The  Economy 


assembly  plants,  tire-production  facilities,  and  a  sugar  refinery. 
Other  aid  donors  were  the  Soviet  Union,  Yugoslavia,  France,  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany),  Japan,  and  Aus- 
tralia. United  States  economic  assistance  to  Cambodia  amounted 
to  more  than  US$350  million  for  the  1955  to  1962  period,  and  it 
was  invested  mostly  in  the  areas  of  public  health,  education,  and 
agricultural  development.  To  avoid  the  appearance  of  undue  de- 
pendence upon  foreign  aid,  Cambodia  insisted  upon  "project  shar- 
ing," that  is,  participation  of  its  own  in  specific  enterprises,  such 
as  the  French- sponsored  oil  refinery  and  truck  assembly  plant  at 
Sihanoukville.  This  stipulation  imposed  by  Phnom  Penh  also  had 
the  effect  of  holding  down  the  scale  of  many  aid  projects  and  the 
amounts  of  loans  extended  to  the  Cambodian  government. 

The  government  also  used  foreign  assistance  to  expand  the  coun- 
try's transportation  and  communication  networks.  France  helped 
to  develop  Sihanoukville,  Cambodia's  second  largest  port,  which 
opened  in  1960,  and  the  United  States  constructed  a  highway  link- 
ing the  port  to  Phnom  Penh.  In  addition,  the  Cambodians,  with 
French  and  West  German  assistance,  built  a  railway  from  Sihanouk- 
ville to  the  capital. 

Despite  Sihanouk's  claims  of  economic  progress,  Cambodia's 
industrial  output  in  1968  amounted  to  only  12  percent  of  GNP, 
or  only  one- third  of  agricultural  production.  Rice  and  rubber  were 
the  country's  two  principal  commodity  exports  and  foreign- 
exchange  earners  during  the  Sihanouk  era. 

The  Wartime  Economy,  1970-75 

The  war  that  engulfed  the  rest  of  Indochina  spread  to  Cambo- 
dia in  April  1970,  shortly  after  the  coup  that  deposed  Prince  Siha- 
nouk. Wartime  conditions  had  a  major  impact  on  the  country's 
economy,  especially  on  the  export  sector.  Production  and  export 
of  virtually  all  commodities  dropped  sharply,  as  insecurity  spread 
throughout  the  countryside.  Intense  combat  in  the  nation's  most 
densely  populated  farming  areas  caused  a  large  segment  of  the 
peasant  population  to  flee  to  cities  and  to  towns.  By  1975  the  popu- 
lation of  Phnom  Penh  had  swollen  to  2  million,  from  just  50,000 
in  1955.  Moreover,  the  war  seriously  dislocated  the  economic  sys- 
tem. Food  shortages  arose  as  insurgents  interrupted  the  transpor- 
tation of  crops  from  the  countryside  to  the  main  marketing  centers. 
Increasing  budgetary  expenditures,  skyrocketing  inflation,  shrinking 
export  earnings,  and  a  rising  balance-of-payments  deficit  plagued 
the  war-torn  economy. 

The  war's  most  damaging  effect  was  on  rice  production.  In  1972 
Cambodia  needed  to  import  rice  (from  Japan  and  from  Thailand) 


149 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

for  the  first  time  since  independence.  Fighting  reduced  the  amount 
of  land  under  rice  cultivation  to  fewer  than  800,000  hectares  in 
1972,  far  less  than  the  approximately  3  million  hectares  that  had 
been  under  cultivation  in  1969.  The  1972  rice  harvest  amounted 
to  only  26.8  percent  of  the  1969  harvest.  Exports  of  natural  rub- 
ber, the  country's  second  leading  foreign-exchange  earner,  ceased 
shortly  after  hostilities  began  in  1970.  The  war  destroyed  exten- 
sive rubber  plantations  and  damaged  rubber-processing  facilities. 

In  late  1970,  Lon  Nol,  who  succeeded  Sihanouk,  continued  to 
liberalize  the  economy  in  an  effort  to  save  the  country  from  eco- 
nomic disaster.  This  endeavor  was  a  continuation  of  the  policies 
he  had  enacted  as  head  of  the  government  of  " national  salvation" 
in  August  1969.  Under  Lon  Nol's  direction,  Phnom  Penh  limited 
the  control  and  the  authority  of  the  state  export-import  agency 
(Societe  nationale  d'exportation  et  d'importation — SONEXIM), 
which  had  been  established  in  1964  to  administer  foreign  trade, 
to  denationalize  banks  and  industries,  to  encourage  private  for- 
eign investments,  and  to  allow  greater  private  participation  in  the 
economy.  The  new  economic  policies  of  the  Khmer  Republic  gradu- 
ally reversed  the  pattern  of  state  socialism  that  had  formed  the 
keystone  of  Sihanouk's  domestic  policies. 

On  October  29,  1971,  the  government  implemented  a  com- 
prehensive program  of  reforms  to  stabilize  the  economy.  These 
reforms  included  increased  import  taxes  on  all  nonessential  com- 
modities; increased  interest  rates  on  bank  deposits  and  on  com- 
mercial loans;  elimination  of  credit  to  state  enterprises  and  to  public 
utilities;  introduction  of  a  flexible  currency  exchange  system;  and 
simplification  of  the  import  system  to  facilitate  the  movement  of 
goods.  The  emphasis  of  the  program  was  to  restore  monetary  sta- 
bility in  the  face  of  rising  inflation,  financial  speculation,  black  mar- 
kets, and  other  economic  problems  caused  by  the  war.  In  a  change 
of  policy,  the  government  also  moved  toward  greater  involvement 
with  international  and  with  regional  organizations  and  sought  sup- 
port from  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (see  Glossary),  and  the  Asian  Development  Bank. 

As  the  war  progressed,  Lon  Nol's  government  aimed  major  eco- 
nomic measures  mainly  at  improving  the  overall  food  supply  situ- 
ation and  at  maintaining  public  confidence  in  the  continued 
availability  of  essential  consumer  items.  To  ensure  adequate  domes- 
tic supplies,  in  November  1971  Phnom  Penh  suspended  grants  of 
export  licenses  for  major  export  commodities,  such  as  rice,  corn, 
and  cattle.  Although  the  move  helped  maintain  stocks  of  essential 
commodities  in  the  capital  and  in  provincial  centers,  supplies  were 
small  relative  to  demand. 


150 


The  Economy 


The  Lon  Nol  government  had  earlier  declared  in  principle  that 
it  maintained  a  policy  of  "strict  neutrality"  and  would  accept  for- 
eign assistance  from  "all  countries  which  love  peace  and  justice." 
As  early  as  April  20,  1970,  Cambodia  formally  requested  military 
and  economic  aid  from  Washington  to  help  cope  with  growing  war 
expenditures  and  with  an  increasing  budgetary  deficit.  As  military 
activity  in  the  country  intensified,  the  United  States  became  Cam- 
bodia's largest  donor  and  supplier.  Moscow,  however,  sent  medi- 
cal equipment  and,  in  October  1971,  the  Soviets  renewed  a  financial 
agreement  with  the  republican  regime.  The  Economic  Support 
Fund,  to  which  the  United  Nations  (UN),  the  United  States,  Brit- 
ain, Japan,  New  Zealand,  Thailand,  and  Malaysia  pledged  their 
contributions,  provided  US$21  million  in  auxiliary  relief.  Other 
nations,  including  Italy,  Israel,  West  Germany,  and  Switzerland, 
provided  funds  mostly  to  assist  war  victims.  France  earmarked  its 
aid  for  the  maintenance  of  French  educational  programs  and  cul- 
tural institutions.  Nevertheless,  these  palliative  measures  fell  far 
short  of  what  was  needed.  By  1975  the  economy  had  collapsed, 
and  the  country  was  surviving  mainly  on  imported  food  financed 
by  the  United  States  government. 

The  Economy  under  the  Khmer  Rouge,  1975-79 

Under  the  leadership  of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  Cambodia  under- 
went a  brutal  and  radical  revolution.  When  the  communist  forces 
took  power  in  Phnom  Penh  in  April  1975,  their  immediate  goals 
were  to  overhaul  the  social  system  and  to  revitalize  the  national 
economy.  The  economic  development  strategy  of  the  Khmer  Rouge 
was  to  build  a  strong  agricultural  base  supported  by  local  small 
industries  and  handicrafts.  As  explained  by  Deputy  Premier  Ieng 
Sary,  the  regime  was  "pursuing  radical  transformation  of  the  coun- 
try, with  agriculture  as  the  base.  With  revenues  from  agriculture 
we  are  building  industry  which  is  to  serve  the  development  of 
agriculture."  This  strategy  was  also  the  focus  of  a  doctoral  thesis 
written  by  future  Khmer  Rouge  leader  Khieu  Samphan  at  the 
University  of  Paris  in  1959.  Samphan  argued  that  Cambodia  could 
only  achieve  economic  and  industrial  development  by  increasing 
and  expanding  agricultural  production.  The  new  communist 
government  implemented  the  tenets  of  this  thesis;  it  called  for  a 
total  collectivization  of  agriculture  and  for  a  complete  nationaliza- 
tion of  all  sectors  of  the  economy. 

Strict  adherence  to  the  principle  of  self-reliance  constituted  the 
central  goal  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime.  A  Phnom  Penh  radio 
broadcast  in  early  May  (about  a  month  after  the  Khmer  Rouge 
arrived  in  the  capital)  underscored  the  importance  of  Cambodian 


151 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

self-reliance  and  boasted  that  during  the  war  the  Khmer  Rouge 
had  used  scrap  iron  and  wrecked  military  vehicles  to  manufacture 
their  own  bullets  and  mines.  The  statement  made  it  clear  that  the 
policy  of  self-reliance  would  continue  in  peacetime.  In  another  move 
aimed  at  reducing  foreign  influence  on  the  country,  the  regime 
announced  on  May  10  that  it  would  not  allow  foreigners  to  remain 
in  Cambodia  but  that  the  measure  was  only  temporary;  and  it 
added,  "We  shall  reconsider  the  question  [of  allowing  foreigners 
to  enter  the  country]  after  the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic,  eco- 
nomic and  commercial  relations  with  other  countries."  Although 
Cambodia  resumed  diplomatic  relations  with  a  number  of  nations, 
the  new  government  informed  the  UN  General  Assembly  on 
October  6,  1975,  that  it  was  neutral  and  economically  self-sufficient 
and  would  not  ask  for  aid  from  any  country.  On  September  9, 
however,  the  Chinese  ambassador  arrived  in  Cambodia,  and  there 
were  soon  reports  that  China  was  providing  aid  to  the  Khmer 
Rouge.  Estimates  of  the  number  of  Chinese  experts  in  Cambodia 
after  that  time  ranged  from  500  to  2,000.  The  policy  of  self-reliance 
also  meant  that  the  government  organized  the  entire  population 
into  forced-labor  groups  to  work  in  paddies  and  on  other  land  to 
help  the  country  reach  its  goal  of  food  self-sufficiency. 

The  Khmer  Rouge,  as  soon  as  it  took  power  on  April  17,  1975, 
emptied  Phnom  Penh  (of  its  approximately  2  million  residents)  as 
well  as  other  cities  and  towns,  and  forced  the  people  into  the  coun- 
tryside. This  overnight  evacuation  was  motivated  by  the  urgent 
need  to  rebuild  the  country's  war- torn  economy  and  by  the  Khmer 
Rouge  peasantry's  hostility  toward  the  cities.  According  to  a  Khmer 
Rouge  spokesman  at  the  French  embassy  on  May  10,  the  evacua- 
tion was  necessary  to  "revolutionize"  and  to  "purify"  the  urban 
residents  and  to  annihilate  Phnom  Penh,  which  "Cambodian 
peasants  regarded  as  a  satellite  of  foreigners,  first  French,  and  then 
American,  and  which  has  been  built  with  their  sweat  without  bring- 
ing them  anything  in  exchange."  The  only  people  who  were  not 
ordered  to  leave  the  city  were  those  who  operated  essential  public 
services,  such  as  water  and  electricity. 

Other  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  rationalized  the  evacuation  as  a  mat- 
ter of  self-reliance.  They  told  the  Swedish  ambassador  in  early  1976 
that  "they  didn't  have  any  transportation  facilities  to  bring  food 
to  the  people,  and  so  the  logical  thing  was  to  bring  the  people  to 
the  food,  i.e.,  to  evacuate  them  all  and  make  them  get  out  into 
the  ricefields."  Indeed,  when  the  evacuees  reached  their  destina- 
tions, they  were  immediately  mobilized  to  clear  land,  to  harvest 
rice  crops,  to  dig  and  restore  irrigation  canals,  and  to  build  and 
repair  dikes  in  preparation  for  the  further  expansion  of  agriculture. 


152 


Oxcarts  remain  a  primary  conveyance  in  rural  Cambodia. 
(Upturned  wagon  tongue  characterizes  Cambodian  oxcarts.) 

Courtesy  Bill  Herod 

The  rice  crop  in  November  1976  was  reported  to  be  good  in  rela- 
tion to  earlier  years.  At  the  same  time,  plantations  producing  cot- 
ton, rubber,  and  bananas  were  established  or  rehabilitated. 

While  the  Khmer  Rouge  gave  high  priority  to  agriculture,  it 
neglected  industry.  Pol  Pot  sought  "to  consolidate  and  perfect 
[existing]  factories,"  rather  than  to  build  new  ones.  About  100 
factories  and  workshops  were  put  back  into  production;  most  of 
them  (except  a  Chinese-built  cement  plant,  a  gunny  sack  factory, 
and  textile  mills  in  Phnom  Penh  and  in  Batdambang)  were  repair 
and  handicraft  shops  revived  to  facilitate  agricultural  develop- 
ment. 

Cambodia's  economic  revolution  was  much  more  radical  and 
ambitious  than  that  in  any  other  communist  country.  In  fact, 
Khmer  Rouge  leader  Premier  Ieng  Sary  explained  that  Cambo- 
dia wanted  "to  create  something  that  never  was  before  in  history. 
No  model  exists  for  what  we  are  building.  We  are  not  imitating 
either  the  Chinese  or  the  Vietnamese  model. "  The  state  or  cooper- 
atives owned  all  land;  there  were  no  private  plots  as  in  China  or 
in  the  Soviet  Union.  The  constitution,  adopted  in  December  1975 
and  proclaimed  in  January  1976,  specifically  stated  that  the  means 
of  production  were  the  collective  property  of  the  state  (see  Demo- 
cratic Kampuchea,  1975-78,  ch.  1). 


153 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Cambodian  economic  system  was  unique  in  at  least  two 
respects.  First,  the  government  abolished  private  ownership  of  land. 
The  Khmer  Rouge  believed  that,  under  the  new  government,  Cam- 
bodia should  be  a  classless  society  of  "perfect  harmony"  and  that 
private  ownership  was  "the  source  of  egoist  feelings  and  conse- 
quently social  injustices."  Second,  Cambodia  was  a  cashless  na- 
tion; the  government  confiscated  all  republican  era  currency.  Shops 
closed,  and  workers  received  their  pay  in  the  form  of  food  rations, 
because  there  was  no  money  in  circulation. 

On  August  12,  1975,  fewer  than  four  months  after  the  Khmer 
Rouge  had  taken  power,  Khieu  Samphan  claimed  that,  within  a 
year  or  two,  Cambodia  would  have  sufficient  food  supplies  and 
would  be  able  to  export  some  of  its  products.  To  achieve  this  goal 
in  record  time,  large  communes  comprising  several  villages  replaced 
village  cooperatives,  which  had  formed  in  the  areas  controlled  by 
the  Khmer  Rouge  in  1973  and  which  had  spread  throughout  the 
country  by  1975.  Unlike  China  and  Vietnam,  which  had  introduced 
collectivization  gradually  over  several  years,  Cambodia  imposed 
the  system  hastily  and  without  preparation. 

The  Khmer  Rouge,  in  line  with  the  slogan,  "If  we  have  dikes, 
we  will  have  water;  if  we  have  water,  we  will  have  rice;  if  we  have 
rice,  we  can  have  absolutely  everything,"  organized  the  workers 
into  three  "forces."  The  first  force  comprised  unmarried  men  (ages 
fifteen  to  forty)  who  were  assigned  to  construct  canals,  dikes,  and 
dams.  The  second  force  consisted  of  married  men  and  women  who 
were  responsible  for  growing  rice  near  villages.  The  third  force  was 
made  up  of  people  forty  years  of  age  and  older  who  were  assigned 
to  less  arduous  tasks,  such  as  weaving,  basket-making,  or  watch- 
ing over  the  children.  Children  under  the  age  of  fifteen  grew  vegeta- 
bles or  raised  poultry.  Everyone  had  to  work  between  ten  and  twelve 
hours  a  day,  and  some  worked  even  more,  often  under  adverse, 
unhealthy  conditions. 

On  September  27,  1977,  in  a  major  speech  celebrating  the  an- 
niversary of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  Communist  Party 
(KCP — see  Appendix  B),  Khmer  Rouge  leader  Pol  Pot  asserted 
that,  "Our  entire  people,  our  entire  revolutionary  army  and  all 
our  cadres  live  under  a  collective  regime  through  a  communal  sup- 
port system."  He  then  listed  the  government's  achievements  in 
rebuilding  the  economy  and  concluded  that,  "Though  not  yet  to 
the  point  of  affluence,  our  people's  standard  of  living  has  reached 
a  level  at  which  people  are  basically  assured  of  all  needs  in  all  fields. ' ' 

Measuring  the  economic  performance  of  the  Khmer  Rouge 
regime  was  impossible  because  statistics  were  not  available,  and 
no  monetary  transactions  or  bookkeeping  were  carried  out.  The 


154 


The  Economy 


economic  life  described  by  foreign  diplomats,  by  Western  visitors, 
and  by  Cambodian  refugees  in  Thai  camps  ranged  from  spartan 
to  dismal.  Phnom  Penh  became  a  ghost  town  of  only  about  10,000 
people.  There  were  no  shops,  post  offices,  telephones,  or  telegraph 
services.  Frequent  shortages  of  water  and  of  electricity  occurred 
in  all  urban  areas,  and  the  government  prohibited  movement  across 
provincial  borders,  except  for  that  of  trucks  distributing  rice  and 
fuel. 

Conditions  in  the  cooperatives  varied  considerably  from  place 
to  place.  In  some  areas,  cooperative  members  had  permission  to 
cultivate  private  plots  of  land  and  to  keep  livestock.  In  others,  all 
property  was  held  communally.  Conditions  were  most  primitive 
in  the  new  economic  zones,  where  city  dwellers  had  been  sent  to 
farm  virgin  soil  and  where  thousands  of  families  lived  in  impro- 
vised barracks  (see  Democratic  Kampuchea,  1975-78,  ch.  1). 

Cambodia  made  progress  in  improving  the  country's  irrigation 
network  and  in  expanding  its  rice  cultivation  area.  Phnom  Penh 
radio  claimed  that  a  network  of  ditches,  canals,  and  reservoirs  had 
been  constructed  throughout  the  country  "like  giant  checkerboards, 
a  phenomenon  unprecedented  in  the  history  of  our  Cambodia." 
Still,  rice  production  and  distribution  were  reported  to  be  unsatis- 
factory. Rice  harvests  were  poor  in  1975  and  1978,  when  the  worst 
floods  in  seventy  years  struck  the  Mekong  Valley.  Even  after  the 
better  harvests  of  1976  and  1977,  however,  rice  distribution  was 
unequal,  and  the  government  failed  to  reach  the  daily  ration  of 
570  grams  per  person.  (The  daily  ration  of  rice  per  person  actually 
varied  by  region  from  250  to  500  grams.)  Party  leaders,  cadres, 
soldiers,  and  factory  workers  ate  well,  but  children,  the  sick,  and 
the  elderly  suffered  from  malnutrition  and  starvation.  There  also 
were  reports  that  the  government  was  stockpiling  rice  in  prepara- 
tion for  war  with  Vietnam  and  exporting  it  to  China  in  exchange 
for  military  supplies.  This  diverted  rice  could  have  been  one  ex- 
planation for  the  people's  meager  rice  ration. 

At  the  end  of  1978,  when  Vietnamese  troops  invaded  Cambo- 
dia, the  ensuing  turbulence  completely  disrupted  the  nation's  eco- 
nomic activity,  particularly  in  the  countryside,  which  once  again 
became  a  war  theater  traversed  by  a  massive  population  movement. 
Agricultural  production  was  again  a  major  casualty,  with  the  result 
that  there  was  a  severe  food  crisis  in  1979. 

Economic  Role  of  the  Kampuchean  People's 
Revolutionary  Party 

After  the  fall  of  Pol  Pot  and  the  establishment  of  the  People's 
Republic  of  Kampuchea  in  January  1979,  the  Kampuchean  (or 


155 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B), 
led  by  General  Secretary  Heng  Samrin,  set  Cambodia's  economic 
development  policies.  Party  congresses  adopted  these  policies  at 
meetings  in  January  1979,  May  1981,  and  October  1985.  A  new 
Constitution,  which  the  National  Assembly  approved  in  June  1981, 
defined  Cambodia's  new  socialist  direction  and  the  role  of  the  state 
in  economic  affairs.  Then,  after  six  more  years  of  struggling  with 
an  economy  of  survival  and  subsistence,  KPRP  leaders  presented 
their  First  Plan,  which  represented  a  systematic  and  rational  party 
effort  at  centrally  planning  and  improving  the  economy. 

New  Economic  Policy  and  System 

In  contrast  to  Pol  Pot's  radical,  doctrinaire  approach  to  eco- 
nomic development,  Heng  Samrin  and  the  leaders  of  the  Kam- 
puchean  (or  Khmer)  National  United  Front  for  National  Salvation 
(KNUFNS — see  Appendix  B),  the  umbrella  group  of  anti-Pol  Pot 
forces  sponsored  by  Hanoi,  sought  to  rally  public  support  by  for- 
mulating a  policy  that  would  be  pragmatic,  realistic,  and  flexible. 
In  an  eleven-point  program  promulgated  shortly  before  the  Viet- 
namese invasion  of  Cambodia,  the  front  articulated  the  economic 
guidelines  that  would  mark  its  tenure  in  power.  These  guidelines 
advocated  a  gradual  transformation  to  socialism;  a  "planned  econ- 
omy with  markets";  the  restoration  of  banks,  of  currency,  and  of 
trade;  the  abolition  of  forced  labor;  the  introduction  of  an  eight- 
hour  workday;  and  pay  based  on  work  performed. 

The  KPRP  socialist  economy  accepted  the  private  sector.  At  a 
May  1980  agriculture  conference,  Samrin  reviewed  the  effective- 
ness of  the  solidarity  groups  {krom  samaki),  production  units  of  seven 
to  fifteen  families,  united  in  a  common  endeavor  to  raise  food  or 
to  produce  goods.  These  production  units  had  been  organized  in 
line  with  the  policy  of  moving  toward  socialism.  He  affirmed  that 
each  member  of  these  groups  would  receive  at  least  one  hectare 
of  land  to  cultivate  for  communal  purposes,  plus  a  private  plot  not 
exceeding  a  quarter  of  a  hectare  on  which  to  grow  vegetables  or 
to  graze  livestock.  Also,  a  July  1980  planning  conference  called 
for  a  policy  of ' '  simultaneous  development  of  family  (private)  econ- 
omy and  national  (socialized)  economy."  The  conference  also  de- 
cided that  the  state  should  buy  agricultural  products  from  the 
peasants  and  should  sell  them  manufactured  goods  at  free-market 
prices. 

The  KPRP  further  clarified  its  economic  policy  at  its  Fourth  Party 
Congress  (its  first  since  taking  power  in  Phnom  Penh)  from  May  26 
to  May  29,  1981.  It  declared  that  the  nation's  economic  system 
had  three  main  parts — the  state  economy,  the  collective  economy, 


156 


Lunchtime  in  Phnom  Penh 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 

and  the  family  economy,  and  that  each  of  these  parts  "had  its  own 
significant  role." 

The  state  economy  covered  large-scale  agricultural  production, 
all  industrial  production,  the  communications  and  transportation 
networks,  finance,  and  domestic  and  foreign  trade.  To  facilitate 
economic  transactions  nationwide,  the  state  restored  the  banking 
system  in  November  1979,  and  it  reintroduced  currency  in  March 
1980.  The  KPRP  acknowledged  that  the  state  economy  was  small 
and  said  that  it  should  be  expanded.  The  party  leaders,  however, 
aware  of  the  pitfalls  of  central  planning,  warned  against  "over- 
expansion  and  disregard  for  real  needs,  production  conditions, 
management  ability,  and  economic  capability." 

The  collective  economy — the  largest  of  the  three  elements — was 
assigned  an  important  role  in  agricultural  rehabilitation  and  de- 
velopment. It  consisted  of  solidarity  groups  in  agriculture,  fishing, 
forestry,  and  handicrafts.  These  groups  also  assumed  the  task  of 
collective  purchase  and  sale. 

The  family-run  economy  included  the  home  economies  of  the 
peasants,  most  retail  businesses,  individual  artisans,  handicrafts, 
repair  shops,  and  small  trade.  Although  the  1981  Constitution  stated 
that  the  land  and  other  natural  resources  were  state  property,  it 
gave  the  citizens  usufruct  rights  to  land  allotted  for  a  house  and 
garden  by  the  state.  In  some  cases,  agricultural  workers  were  also 


157 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

allowed  to  borrow  an  extra  plot  of  land  from  the  state,  to  produce 
food  on  it,  and  to  keep  the  harvest  for  their  own  consumption. 

Private  enterprise  also  made  a  modest  beginning  under  Cam- 
bodia's hybrid  economic  system.  Citizens  were  allowed  to  buy  and 
to  sell  agricultural  produce  and  handicrafts.  The  law  guaranteed 
workers  the  right  to  keep  their  wages,  their  other  income  and  their 
property.  Encouraged  and  protected  by  the  state,  hundreds  of  small 
shops  and  factories,  each  employing  a  few  workers,  opened  for  bus- 
iness in  Phnom  Penh  and  in  other  urban  areas. 

This  inchoate  private  sector  played  such  an  important  role  in 
the  national  economic  recovery  that  party  leaders  urged  its  official 
recognition,  at  the  Fifth  Congress  in  October  1985,  as  a  means 
of  mitigating  the  weaknesses  of  the  state-run  economy.  Thus,  the 
government  added  a  fourth  component — private  economy — to  the 
economic  system  and  legitimized  it  with  a  constitutional  amend- 
ment in  February  1986. 

First  Plan,  1986-90 

The  First  Five-Year  Program  of  Socioeconomic  Restoration  and 
Development  (1986-90),  or  First  Plan,  originated  in  February  1984, 
when  the  heads  of  the  state  planning  commissions  of  Vietnam,  Laos, 
and  Cambodia  met  in  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  (formerly  Saigon)  and 
agreed  to  coordinate  their  1986  to  1990  economic  plans.  Heng  Sam- 
rin  formally  announced  Cambodia's  plan  in  his  political  report  to 
the  congress. 

The  plan  was  intended  to  open  a  new  phase  of  the  Cambodian 
revolution;  it  gave  highest  priority  to  agricultural  production,  calling 
it  "the  first  front  line,"  and  focused  on  the  four  sectors  of  food, 
rubber,  fishing,  and  timber  (see  table  6).  It  set  production  targets 
for  each  sector.  During  the  plan  period,  food  production  was  to 
increase  7  percent  a  year  to  keep  up  with  a  targeted  2.8  percent 
annual  population  growth  rate,  which  did  not  seem  to  have  been 
reached  by  1987.  The  plan  projected  that  by  1990,  rubber  farm- 
ing would  expand  to  50,000  hectares  in  order  to  produce  50,000 
tons  of  latex;  timber  production  would  reach  200,000  cubic  meters; 
jute  production  would  increase  to  15,000  tons;  and  fish  pro- 
duction would  amount  to  130,000  tons.  As  in  the  past,  the  plan 
labeled  agriculture  and  forestry  as  the  real  force  of  the  national 
economy. 

The  plan  was  less  specific  for  the  industrial  sector.  It  did  not 
set  industrial  production  targets,  except  that  for  electrical  output, 
which  was  projected  to  reach  300  million  kilowatt  hours  per  year 
in  1990.  The  plan  called  attention  to  the  need  for  selective  restora- 
tion of  existing  industrial  production  capabilities  and  for  proposed 


158 


The  Economy 


progressive  construction  of  a  small  to  medium  industrial  base,  which 
would  be  more  appropriate  to  the  country's  situation. 

The  plan  placed  increased  emphasis  on  the  distribution  of  goods. 
Trade  organizations  were  to  be  perfected  at  all  levels,  and  socialist 
trading  networks  were  to  be  expanded  in  all  localities.  In  particu- 
lar, the  trade  relationship  between  the  state  and  the  peasantry  was 
to  be  improved  and  consolidated  in  accordance  with  the  motto, 
"For  the  peasantry,  selling  rice  and  agricultural  products  to  the 
state  is  patriotism;  for  the  state,  selling  goods  and  delivering  them 
directly  to  the  people  is  being  responsible  to  the  people." 

The  plan  also  required  that  investment  be  directed  toward  the 
improvement  of  the  infrastructure,  particularly  toward  the  recon- 
struction of  communication  lines  and  waterworks.  Road,  inland 
waterways,  and  railroad  networks  had  to  be  restored  to  serve  the 
national  economy  and  defense. 

Last,  but  not  least,  the  plan  cited  "export  and  thrift"  (without 
elaboration),  as  the  two  primary  policies  to  be  followed  in  order 
to  solve  the  national  budget  deficit.  The  plan  implied  that,  into 
the  1990s,  exports  would  have  to  consist  principally  of  agricultural 
and  forestry  products,  to  which  some  value  might  be  added  by  low- 
technology  processing.  "Thrift,"  although  undefined,  could,  in 
the  future,  include  some  kind  of  government  savings  plan,  with 
incentives  for  small  depositors,  to  absorb  surplus  riels  generated 
by  Cambodia's  considerable  free-market  and  black-market  sectors. 

Heng  Samrin,  like  his  predecessors,  Sihanouk  and  Pol  Pot,  urged 
Cambodians  to  undertake  the  task  of  economic  restoration  "in  the 
spirit  of  mainly  relying  on  one's  own  forces."  Unlike  Sihanouk 
and  Pol  Pot,  however,  the  KPRP  leader  stressed  economic  and  tech- 
nical cooperation  with  Vietnam.  He  believed  such  cooperation 
would  be  "an  indispensable  factor"  in  the  development  of  agricul- 
ture and  of  forestry  in  Cambodia.  Heng  Samrin  also  advocated 
better  economic  cooperation  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  with  other 
socialist  countries. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture,  accounting  for  90  percent  of  GDP  in  1985  and  em- 
ploying approximately  80  percent  of  the  work  force,  is  the  tradi- 
tional mainstay  of  the  economy.  Rice,  the  staple  food,  continued 
to  be  the  principal  commodity  in  this  sector.  Rice  production,  a 
vital  economic  indicator  in  Cambodia's  agrarian  society,  frequentiy 
fell  far  short  of  targets,  causing  severe  food  shortages  in  1979,  1981, 
1984,  and  1987.  The  plan's  1987  target  for  the  total  area  to  be  de- 
voted to  rice  cultivation  was  1.77  million  hectares,  but  the  actual 
area  under  cultivation  in  1987  amounted  to  only  1.15  million 


159 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

hectares  (see  table  7,  Appendix  A).  After  1979  and  through  the 
late  1980s,  the  agricultural  sector  performed  poorly.  Adverse 
weather  conditions,  insufficient  numbers  of  farm  implements  and 
of  draft  animals,  inexperienced  and  incompetent  personnel,  secu- 
rity problems,  and  government  collectivization  policies  all  contrib- 
uted to  low  productivity. 

Collectivization  and  Solidarity  Groups 

Collectivization  of  the  agricultural  sector  under  the  Heng  Sam- 
rin  regime  included  the  formation  of  solidarity  groups.  As  small 
aggregates  of  people  living  in  the  same  locality,  known  to  one 
another,  and  able  to  a  certain  extent  to  profit  collectively  from  their 
work,  they  were  an  improvement  over  the  dehumanized,  forced- 
labor  camps  and  communal  life  of  the  Pol  Pot  era.  The  organiza- 
tion of  individuals  and  families  into  solidarity  groups  also  made 
sense  in  the  environment  of  resources-poor,  postwar  Cambodia. 
People  working  together  in  this  way  were  able  to  offset  somewhat 
the  shortages  of  manpower,  draft  animals,  and  farm  implements 
(see  New  Economic  and  Policy  System,  this  ch.). 

In  1986  more  than  97  percent  of  the  rural  population  belonged 
to  the  country's  more  than  100,000  solidarity  groups.  Unlike  the 
large  communes  of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  the  solidarity  groups  were 
relatively  small.  They  consisted  initially  of  between  twenty  and  fifty 
families  and  were  later  reduced  to  between  seven  and  fifteen  fami- 
lies. The  groups  were  a  form  of  " peasants'  labor  association,"  the 
members  of  which  continued  to  be  owners  of  the  land  and  of  the 
fruits  of  their  labor.  According  to  a  Soviet  analyst,  the  solidarity 
groups  "organically  united"  three  forms  of  property — the  land, 
which  remained  state  property;  the  collectively  owned  farm  imple- 
ments and  the  harvest;  and  the  individual  peasant's  holding,  each 
the  private  property  of  a  peasant  family. 

In  theory,  each  solidarity  group  received  between  ten  and  fifteen 
hectares  of  common  land,  depending  upon  the  region  and  land 
availability.  This  land  had  to  be  cultivated  collectively,  and  the  har- 
vest had  to  be  divided  among  member  families  according  to  the 
amount  of  work  each  family  had  contributed  as  determined  by  a 
work  point  system.  In  dividing  the  harvest,  allowance  was  made 
first  for  those  who  were  unable  to  contribute  their  labor,  such  as 
the  elderly  and  the  sick,  as  well  as  nurses,  teachers,  and  adminis- 
trators. Some  of  the  harvest  was  set  aside  as  seed  for  the  following 
season,  and  the  rest  was  distributed  to  the  workers.  Those  who  per- 
formed heavy  tasks  and  who  consequently  earned  more  work  points 
received  a  greater  share  of  the  harvest  than  those  who  worked  on 
light  tasks.  Women  without  husbands,  however,  received  enough 


160 


The  Economy 


to  live  on  even  if  they  did  little  work  and  earned  few  work  points. 
Work  points  also  were  awarded,  beyond  personal  labor,  to  individu- 
als or  to  families  who  tended  group-owned  livestock  or  who  lent 
their  own  animals  or  tools  for  solidarity  group  use. 

Each  member  family  of  a  solidarity  group  was  entitled  to  a  pri- 
vate plot  of  between  1,500  and  2,000  square  meters  (depending 
upon  the  availability  of  land)  in  addition  to  land  it  held  in  com- 
mon with  other  members.  Individual  shares  of  the  group  harvest 
and  of  the  produce  from  private  plots  were  the  exclusive  property 
of  the  producers,  who  were  free  to  consume,  store,  barter,  or  sell 
them. 

The  solidarity  groups  evolved  into  three  categories,  each  distinct 
in  its  level  of  collectivization  and  in  its  provisions  for  land  tenure. 
The  first  category  represented  the  highest  level  of  collective  labor. 
Member  families  of  each  solidarity  group  in  this  category  under- 
took all  tasks  from  plowing  to  harvesting.  Privately  owned  farm 
implements  and  draft  animals  continued  to  be  individual  personal 
property,  and  the  owners  received  remuneration  for  making  them 
available  to  the  solidarity  group  during  the  planting  and  the  har- 
vesting seasons.  Each  group  also  had  collectively  owned  farm  im- 
plements, acquired  through  state  subsidy. 

The  second  category  was  described  as  "  a  transitional  form  from 
individual  to  collective  form"  at  the  KPRP  National  Conference 
in  November  1984.  This  category  of  group  was  different  from  the 
first  because  it  distributed  land  to  member  families  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  season  according  to  family  size.  In  this  second  category, 
group  members  worked  collectively  only  on  heavy  tasks,  such  as 
plowing  paddy  fields  and  transplanting  rice  seedlings.  Otherwise, 
each  family  was  responsible  for  the  cultivation  of  its  own  land 
allotment  and  continued  to  be  owner  of  its  farm  implements  and 
animals,  which  could  be  traded  by  private  agreement  among  mem- 
bers. Some  groups  owned  a  common  pool  of  rice  seeds,  contributed 
by  member  families,  and  of  farm  implements,  contributed  by  the 
state.  The  size  of  the  pool  indicated  the  level  of  the  group's  collec- 
tivization. The  larger  the  pool,  the  greater  the  collective  work.  In 
groups  that  did  not  have  a  common  pool  of  rice  and  tools,  produc- 
tive labor  was  directed  primarily  to  meeting  the  family's  needs, 
and  the  relationship  between  the  agricultural  producers  and  the 
market  or  state  organizations  was  very  weak. 

The  third  category  was  classified  as  the  family  economy.  As  in 
the  second  category,  the  group  allocated  land  to  families  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  season,  and  farm  implements  continued  to  be  their 
private  property.  In  this  third  category,  however,  the  family  culti- 
vated its  own  assigned  lot,  owned  the  entire  harvest,  and  sold  its 


161 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

surplus  directly  to  state  purchasing  organizations.  In  the  solidarity 
groups  of  this  category,  there  was  no  collective  effort,  except  in 
administrative  and  sociocultural  matters. 

The  government  credited  the  solidarity  group  system  with  re- 
habilitating the  agricultural  sector  and  increasing  food  production. 
The  system's  contribution  to  socialism,  however,  was  less  visible 
and  significant.  According  to  Chhea  Song,  deputy  minister  of 
agriculture,  a  mere  10  percent  of  the  solidarity  groups  really  worked 
collectively  in  the  mid-1980s  (seven  years  after  solidarity  groups 
had  come  into  operation).  Seventy  percent  of  the  solidarity  groups 
performed  only  some  tasks  in  common,  such  as  preparing  the  fields 
and  planting  seeds.  Finally,  20  percent  of  the  agricultural  workers 
farmed  their  land  as  individuals  and  participated  in  the  category 
of  the  family  economy. 

Rice  Production  and  Cultivation 

In  1987  statistics  on  rice  production  were  sparse,  and  they  varied 
depending  upon  sources.  Cambodian  government  figures  were 
generally  lower  than  those  provided  by  the  UN  Food  and  Agricul- 
ture Organization  (FAO)  for  the  period  from  1979  to  1985  (see 
table  8,  Appendix  A). 

Political  and  technical  factors  account  for  the  discrepancies.  Data 
collection  in  the  war-torn  nation  is  difficult  because  of  the  lack  of 
trained  personnel.  Moreover,  representatives  of  international  and 
of  foreign  relief  organizations  are  not  permitted  to  travel  beyond 
Phnom  Penh,  except  with  special  permission,  because  of  security 
and  logistics  problems.  In  addition,  international  and  Cambodian 
sources  use  different  benchmarks  in  calculating  rice  production. 
FAO  computes  the  harvest  by  calendar  year;  Cambodian  officials 
and  private  observers  base  their  calculations  on  the  harvest  sea- 
son, which  runs  from  November  to  February  and  thus  extends  over 
two  calendar  years.  Last  of  all,  a  substantial  statistical  difference 
exists  between  milled  rice  and  paddy  (unmilled  rice)  production, 
compounding  problems  in  compiling  accurate  estimates.  In  terms 
of  weight,  milled  rice  averages  only  62  percent  of  the  original  un- 
milled paddy.  Estimates  sometimes  refer  to  these  two  kinds  of  rice 
interchangeably . 

Despite  statistical  discrepancies,  there  is  consensus  that  annual 
unmilled  rice  production  during  the  1979  to  1987  period  did  not 
reach  the  1966  level  of  2.5  million  tons.  Nevertheless,  since  1979, 
Cambodian  rice  production  has  increased  gradually  (except  dur- 
ing the  disastrous  1984  to  1985  season),  and  the  nation  in  the  late 
1980s  had  just  begun  to  achieve  a  precarious  self-sufficiency,  if  es- 
timates were  borne  out  (see  table  9,  Appendix  A). 


162 


A  woman  cuts  and 
wraps  cakes  of  soap 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


A  machinist  plies  her  trade 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


Cambodia's  cultivated  rice  land  can  be  divided  into  three  areas. 
The  first  and  richest  (producing  more  than  one  ton  of  rice  per  hec- 
tare) covers  the  area  of  the  Tonle  Sap  Basin  and  the  provinces  of 
Batdambang,  Kampong  Thum,  Kampong  Cham,  Kandal,  Prey 
Veng,  and  Svay  Rieng.  The  second  area,  which  yields  an  average 
of  four-fifths  of  a  ton  of  rice  per  hectare,  consists  of  Kampot  and 
Kaoh  Kong  provinces  along  the  Gulf  of  Thailand,  and  some  less 
fertile  areas  of  the  central  provinces.  The  third  area,  with  rice  yields 
of  less  than  three-fifths  of  a  ton  per  hectare,  is  comprised  of  the 
highlands  and  the  mountainous  provinces  of  Preah  Vihear,  Stoeng 
Treng,  Rotanokiri  (Ratanakiri),  and  Mondol  Kiri  (Mondolkiri) . 

Cambodia  has  two  rice  crops  each  year,  a  monsoon-season  crop 
(long-cycle)  and  a  dry-season  crop.  The  major  monsoon  crop  is 
planted  in  late  May  through  July,  when  the  first  rains  of  the  mon- 
soon season  begin  to  inundate  and  soften  the  land.  Rice  shoots  are 
transplanted  from  late  June  through  September.  The  main  har- 
vest is  usually  gathered  six  months  later,  in  December.  The  dry- 
season  crop  is  smaller,  and  it  takes  less  time  to  grow  (three  months 
from  planting  to  harvest).  It  is  planted  in  November  in  areas  that 


163 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

have  trapped  or  retained  part  of  the  monsoon  rains,  and  it  is  har- 
vested in  January  or  February.  The  dry-season  crop  seldom  ex- 
ceeds 15  percent  of  the  total  annual  production. 

In  addition  to  these  two  regular  crops,  peasants  plant  floating 
rice  in  April  and  in  May  in  the  areas  around  the  Tonle  Sap  (Great 
Lake),  which  floods  and  expands  its  banks  in  September  or  early 
October  (see  Environment,  ch.  2).  Before  the  flooding  occurs,  the 
seed  is  spread  on  the  ground  without  any  preparation  of  the  soil, 
and  the  floating  rice  is  harvested  nine  months  later,  when  the  stems 
have  grown  to  three  or  four  meters  in  response  to  the  peak  of  the 
flood  (the  floating  rice  has  the  property  of  adjusting  its  rate  of  growth 
to  the  rise  of  the  flood  waters  so  that  its  grain  heads  remain  above 
water).  It  has  a  low  yield,  probably  less  than  half  that  of  most  other 
rice  types,  but  it  can  be  grown  inexpensively  on  land  for  which 
there  is  no  other  use. 

The  per-hectare  rice  yield  in  Cambodia  is  among  the  lowest  in 
Asia.  The  average  yield  for  the  wet  crop  is  about  0.95  ton  of  un- 
milled  rice  per  hectare.  The  dry-season  crop  yield  is  traditionally 
higher — 1.8  tons  of  unmilled  rice  per  hectare.  New  rice  varieties 
(IR36  and  IR42)  have  much  higher  yields — between  five  and  six 
tons  of  unmilled  rice  per  hectare  under  good  conditions.  Unlike 
local  strains,  however,  these  varieties  require  a  fair  amount  of  urea 
and  phosphate  fertilizer  (25,000  tons  for  5,000  tons  of  seed),  which 
the  government  could  not  afford  to  import  in  the  late  1980s. 

Other  Food  and  Commercial  Crops 

The  main  secondary  crops  in  the  late  1980s  were  maize,  cassava, 
sweet  potatoes,  groundnuts,  soybeans,  sesame  seeds,  dry  beans, 
and  rubber  (see  table  10,  Appendix  A).  According  to  Phnom  Penh, 
the  country  produced  92,000  tons  of  corn  (maize),  as  well  as  100,000 
tons  of  cassava,  about  34,000  tons  of  sweet  potatoes,  and  37,000 
tons  of  dry  beans  in  1986.  In  1987  local  officials  urged  residents 
of  the  different  agricultural  regions  of  the  country  to  step  up  the 
cultivation  of  subsidiary  food  crops,  particularly  of  starchy  crops, 
to  make  up  for  the  rice  deficit  caused  by  a  severe  drought. 

The  principal  commercial  crop  is  rubber.  In  the  1980s,  it  was 
an  important  primary  commodity,  second  only  to  rice,  and  one 
of  the  country's  few  sources  of  foreign  exchange.  Rubber  planta- 
tions were  damaged  extensively  during  the  war  (as  much  as  20,000 
hectares  was  destroyed),  and  recovery  was  very  slow.  In  1986  rubber 
production  totaled  about  24,500  tons  (from  an  area  of  36,000  hect- 
ares, mostly  in  Kampong  Cham  Province),  far  below  the  1969 
prewar  output  of  50,000  tons  (produced  from  an  area  of  50,000 
hectares). 


164 


The  Economy 


The  government  began  exporting  rubber  and  rubber  products 
in  1985.  A  major  customer  was  the  Soviet  Union,  which  imported 
slightiy  more  than  10,000  tons  of  Cambodian  natural  rubber  an- 
nually in  1985  and  in  1986.  In  the  late  1980s,  Vietnam  helped  Cam- 
bodia restore  rubber-processing  plants.  The  First  Plan  made  rubber 
the  second  economic  priority,  with  production  targeted  at  50,000 
tons — from  an  expanded  cultivated  area  of  50,000  hectares — by  1990. 

Other  commercial  crops  included  sugarcane,  cotton,  and  tobacco. 
Among  these  secondary  crops,  the  First  Plan  emphasized  the 
production  of  jute,  which  was  to  reach  the  target  of  15,000  tons 
in  1990  (see  table  11,  Appendix  A). 

Livestock 

Animal  husbandry  has  been  an  essential  part  of  Cambodian  eco- 
nomic life,  but  a  part  that  farmers  have  carried  on  mostly  as  a  side- 
line. Traditionally,  draft  animals — water  buffalo  and  oxen — have 
played  a  crucial  role  in  the  preparation  of  rice  fields  for  cultiva- 
tion. In  1979  the  decreasing  number  of  draft  animals  hampered 
agricultural  expansion.  In  1967  there  were  1 .2  million  head  of  draft 
animals;  in  1979  there  were  only  768,000. 

In  1987  Quan  Dot  Nhan  Dan  (People's  Armed  Forces,  the  Viet- 
namese army  newspaper)  reported  a  considerable  growth  in  the 
raising  of  draft  animals  in  Cambodia.  Between  1979  and  1987,  the 
number  of  cattle  and  water  buffalo  tripled,  raising  the  total  to  2.2 
million  head  in  1987.  In  the  same  year,  there  were  1.3  million  hogs 
and  10  million  domestic  fowl. 

Fisheries 

Cambodia's  preferred  source  of  protein  is  freshwater  fish,  caught 
mainly  from  the  Tonle  Sap  and  from  the  Tonle  Sab,  the  Mekong, 
and  the  Basak  rivers.  Cambodians  eat  it  fresh,  salted,  smoked,  or 
made  into  fish  sauce  and  paste.  A  fishing  program,  developed  with 
Western  assistance,  was  very  successful  in  that  it  more  than  quad- 
rupled the  output  of  inland  freshwater  fish  in  three  years,  from 
15,000  tons  in  1979  to  68,700  tons  in  1982,  a  peak  year.  After  level- 
ing off,  output  declined  somewhat,  dipping  to  62,000  tons  in  1986. 
The  1986  total  was  less  than  half  the  prewar  figure  of  some  125,000 
tons  a  year.  Saltwater  fishing  was  less  developed,  and  the  output 
was  insignificant — less  than  10  percent  of  the  total  catch  (see  table 
12,  Appendix  A).  According  to  the  First  Plan,  fisheries  were  project- 
ed to  increase  their  annual  output  to  130,000  metric  tons  by  1990. 

Industry 

Industry  accounted  for  only  5  percent  of  Cambodia's  GDP  in 
1985,  down  from  19  percent  in  1969.  Industrial  activity  continued 


165 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

to  be  concentrated  in  the  processing  of  agricultural  commodities, 
mostly  rice,  fish,  wood,  and  rubber.  Manufacturing  plants  were 
small,  and  they  employed  an  average  of  fewer  than  200  workers. 
These  plants  aimed  to  produce  enough  consumer  goods  (soft  drinks, 
cigarettes,  and  food  items)  and  household  products  (soap,  paper, 
and  utensils)  to  satisfy  local  demand. 

The  extent  of  Cambodia's  industrial  rehabilitation  could  be 
gauged  by  a  comparison  of  enterprises  in  prewar  and  in  postwar 
times.  In  1969  the  last  year  before  the  country  was  engulfed  in  the 
war  sweeping  Indochina,  a  census  disclosed  18  large  industries  coun- 
trywide (13  public  and  5  mixed  public-private  sector)  and  33,000 
small  and  medium  privately  owned  enterprises.  About  half  the  fac- 
tories operating  in  1969  were  rice  mills,  or  were  otherwise  engaged 
in  rice  processing.  In  1985  the  government  news  agency  (Sarpoda- 
mean  Kampuchea)  announced  that  fifty- six  factories  had  been  reno- 
vated and  had  been  put  back  into  operation.  In  the  capital  itself, 
about  half  of  Phnom  Penh's  prewar  plants  had  reopened  by  1985. 
Most  industries  were  producing  at  far  below  capacity  because  of 
frequent  power  cuts,  shortages  of  spare  parts  and  of  raw  materials, 
and  the  lack  of  both  skilled  workers  and  experienced  managers. 
Industrial  revival  continued  to  be  difficult  and  extremely  slow  be- 
cause it  was  based  mainly  on  the  use  of  limited  local  resources. 

Major  Manufacturing  Industries 

In  early  1986,  the  major  industrial  plants  in  Phnom  Penh  in- 
cluded the  Tuol  Kok  textile  factory,  the  largest  of  six  textile  facto- 
ries in  the  city  (the  factory  was  idle  three  days  a  week,  however, 
because  of  power  shortages).  There  were  also  four  power  plants, 
a  soft  drink  plant,  a  tobacco  factory,  a  ferro-concrete  factory,  and 
some  other  enterprises  that  produced  consumer  goods. 

In  the  municipality  of  Kampong  Saom  and  in  neighboring  Kam- 
pot  Province,  rice  mills,  lumber  mills,  small  brick  and  tile  facto- 
ries, power  plants,  an  oil  refinery,  a  tractor- assembly  plant,  cement 
and  phosphate  factories,  and  a  refrigeration  plant  for  storing  fish 
were  reported  to  be  in  operation.  In  the  important  industrial  center 
of  Ta  Khmau,  Kampot  Province,  were  a  tire  factory  (possessing 
its  own  generator,  but  lacking  rubber  and  spare  parts),  several 
mechanical  workshops,  and  warehouses.  Batdambang  Province  had 
shops  for  repairing  farm  implements,  a  cotton  gin  and  textile  mill, 
a  jute-bag  factory,  an  automobile  and  tractor  repair  plant,  and  a 
phosphate-fertilizer  plant.  In  Kampong  Cham  Province,  the  former 
center  for  tobacco  growing  and  for  cotton  garment  making,  there 
were  a  cotton-spinning  textile  factory,  some  silk-weaving  opera- 
tions, and  an  automobile  tire  and  tube  plant. 


166 


Village  woman  weaving 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 

Handicrafts 

Small  family-run  businesses  and  private  enterprises  specializing 
in  weaving,  tailoring  (silk  sampot  and  sarongs,  the  Cambodian 
national  dress),  and  small  manufactured  products  grew  more  rapidly 
than  public  industries,  and  they  contributed  significantly  to  eco- 
nomic recovery.  According  to  official  estimates,  the  output  value 
of  local  and  of  handicraft  industries  together  amounted  to  50  per- 
cent of  the  value  of  production  in  state  industries  in  1984.  In  Phnom 
Penh  alone,  there  were  1,840  handicraft  shops  whose  output  value 
rose  from  14  million  riels  in  1981  to  50  million  riels  in  1984. 

Domestic  Commerce 

No  information  was  available  in  1987  on  the  volume  of  the 
domestic  trade  of  locally  manufactured  products  or  of  imported 
goods.  Domestic  commerce  consisted  essentially  of  contracts  be- 
tween agricultural  producers  and  the  state  on  the  one  hand,  and 
the  private  free  market  on  the  other  hand.  Rice  was  the  principal 
commodity  sold  to  state  purchasing  agencies  in  exchange  for  farm 
implements,  consumer  goods,  or  cash.  The  state  increasingly  found 
itself  in  competition  with  private  merchants  for  the  procurement 
of  rice.  In  order  to  force  the  peasants  to  sell  rice  to  the  state,  the 
government  prohibited  private  rice  traders  from  transporting  rice 


167 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

across  provincial  borders,  a  measure  that  had  only  limited  success. 
In  1986  state  rice  procurement  amounted  to  only  154,000  tons, 
or  to  just  over  half  of  the  government's  goal  of  300,000  tons.  Farm- 
ers believed  that  the  state  purchase  price  of  2 . 5  riels  per  kilogram 
of  unmilled  rice  was  less  than  the  cost  of  production.  In  addition, 
because  the  government  had  insufficient  supplies  of  goods  such  as 
fertilizer,  cloth,  and  soap  to  be  traded  as  payment,  farmers  had 
little  incentive  to  sell  their  crops  to  state  buyers.  Consequentiy,  in 
August  1987,  the  government  raised  the  amount  paid  to  farmers 
for  monsoon- season  (long- cycle)  unmilled  rice  from  2.5  to  5.5  riels 
in  an  effort  to  narrow  the  gap  between  the  official  and  the  free- 
market  prices.  At  the  end  of  1987,  peasants  still  complained  that 
the  price  paid  by  the  state  was  too  low.  For  example,  one  kilogram 
of  improved  IR  rice  was  priced  at  between  ten  and  fifteen  riels  on 
the  free  market,  but  it  cost  only  six  riels  on  the  official  market. 

In  contrast  to  shrinking  state  domestic  trade,  private  trade  con- 
tinued to  grow  and  to  prosper  with  governmental  approval  and 
encouragement.  Spouses  of  high  party  officials  and  cadres  were 
actively  engaged  in  petty  trade  to  bring  additional  incomes  to  their 
families.  Government  workers  also  moonlighted  by  working  in  the 
private  sector  to  augment  low  salaries  and  to  make  ends  meet. 
Thousands  of  retail  shops,  private  markets,  and  restaurants  prolifer- 
ated in  Phnom  Penh  and  in  other  cities.  Shops  and  markets  offered 
a  variety  of  consumer  goods,  from  gold  and  silver  to  bicycles  and 
illegally  imported  consumer  items,  such  as  Seiko  watches  and 
Heineken  beer. 

Foreign  Trade  and  Aid 

The  government  controlled  all  official  foreign  trade.  In  July  1979, 
the  Ministry  of  Local  and  Foreign  Trade  set  up  the  Kampuchean 
Export  and  Import  Corporation  (KAMPEXIM,  the  state  trading 
agency)  to  handle  exports,  imports,  and  foreign  aid.  In  addition, 
the  National  Trade  Commission  was  created  to  be  in  charge  of  both 
internal  and  external  economic  coordination.  In  March  1980,  the 
Foreign  Trade  Bank  was  formed  to  deal  with  international  pay- 
ments, to  expand  trade,  to  provide  international  loans,  and  to  con- 
trol foreign  exchange.  There  were  reports  of  special  clearing 
arrangements  for  trade  among  the  Indochinese  countries  and  with 
some  members  of  the  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assstance 
(CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon — see  Glossary). 

Beginning  in  1982,  the  government  made  serious  efforts  to  pro- 
mote foreign  trade  as  a  means  of  accelerating  national  reconstruc- 
tion and  development.  The  First  Plan  emphasized  exports  as  a  way 


168 


The  Economy 


to  correct  imbalances  in  the  national  economy,  but  it  did  not  pro- 
vide any  commodity  export  target  figures.  In  the  late  1980s,  Cam- 
bodian officials  released  information  revealing  the  direction  and 
the  patterns  of  trade  rather  than  specific  numbers.  Most  official 
trade  was  being  conducted  with  Comecon  countries  in  the  form 
of  exchanges  of  commercial  goods.  In  the  absence  of  authoritative 
data,  unofficial  Western  sources  placed  Cambodia's  trade  deficit 
at  US$100  million  to  US$200  million  annually  from  1981  to  1987. 
According  to  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  the  country's  total  ex- 
ternal debt  in  1984  was  US$491  million,  up  from  US$426  million 
in  1983,  and  US$368  million  in  1982  (see  table  13,  Appendix  A). 

In  an  attempt  to  increase  foreign  exchange  earnings,  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime  in  1987  encouraged  expatriate  Cambodians  to  remit 
money  to  relatives  and  to  friends  remaining  in  the  country.  Cam- 
bodia's Foreign  Trade  Bank  provided  the  names  of  sixteen  banks 
in  Western  Europe,  Canada,  and  Australia  that  were  authorized 
to  handle  such  transactions.  The  list  included  the  Moscow  Narodny 
Bank  in  London  and  several  capitalistic  financial  institutions,  such 
as  the  Societe  Generale  in  France  and  the  Union  des  Banques 
Suisses  in  Switzerland. 

Composition  of  Trade 

Since  1979  Cambodia's  major  imports  have  consisted  of 
machinery,  tractors,  vehicles,  fuels  and  raw  materials  for  light  in- 
dustry, consumer  goods,  clothing,  cement,  and  chemical  fertilizers. 
According  to  government  information,  imports  during  the  first  10 
months  of  1987  amounted  to  97  percent  of  the  plan  target,  an  in- 
crease of  about  130  percent  over  the  1986  figure. 

The  principal  exports  included  natural  rubber  (latex),  resin, 
maize,  tobacco,  soybeans,  and  timber.  Private  Western  sources  es- 
timated Cambodia's  1985  export  earnings  at  US$10  million.  Other 
sources  reported  that  they  were  US$3.2  million  just  one  year  later. 
In  1987  the  government  news  agency  reported  that  the  volume  of 
exports  handled  by  the  Kampuchean  Export  and  Import  Corpo- 
ration in  the  first  ten  months  of  1987  had  increased  tenfold  over 
the  corresponding  period  in  1979. 

Major  Trading  Partners 

Cambodia's  major  trading  partners  in  the  1980s  were  Vietnam, 
the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  countries  of  Eastern  Europe,  particu- 
larly the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany),  Czecho- 
slovakia, Poland,  Hungary,  and  Bulgaria.  Cambodia  also  claimed 
to  have  trade  relations  with  Japan,  one  of  several  countries  that 
had  recognized  Sihanouk's  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic 


169 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  A.  Cambodian  and  Vietnamese  Twin  Provinces  and  Cities,  1986-87 


Cambodian 
Province/City 


Vietnamese 
Province/City 


Batdambang 
Kampot 
Kandal 
Kaoh  Kong 
Kampong  Cham 
Kampong  Chhnang 
Kampong  Saom  (C) 
Kampong  Spoe 
Kampong  Thum 
Kracheh 
Mondol  Kiri 
Phnom  Penh  (C) 
Preah  Vihear 
Prey  Veng 
Pouthisat 
Rotanokiri 

Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey 
Stoeng  Treng 
Svay  Rieng 
Takev 


Quang  Nam-Da  Nang 

Kien  Giang 

Ben  Tre 

Minh  Hai 

Tay  Ninh 

Hau  Giang 

Haiphong  (C) 

Cuu  Long 

Dong  Nai 

Song  Be 

Dac  Lac 

Ho  Chi  Minh  City/Hanoi  (C) 
Thuan  Hai 
Dong  Thap 
Tien  Giang 

Nghia  Binh,  Gia  Lai-Kontum 
Binh  Tri  Thien 
Phu  Khanh 
Long  An 
An  Giang 


(C)  =  City  or  independent  municipality 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Michael  Vickery,  Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics,  and 
Society,  London  and  Boulder,  Colorado,  1986,  149-50. 


Kampuchea  (CGDK — see  Appendix  B)  and  had  imposed  a  trade 
embargo  on  the  Phnom  Penh  government  of  the  People's  Repub- 
lic of  Kampuchea  (PRK — see  Appendix  B;  Foreign  Affairs,  ch.  4). 

Vietnam 

In  February  1979,  Cambodia  signed  a  Treaty  of  Peace,  Friend- 
ship and  Cooperation  with  Vietnam  that  formally  strengthened 
"solidarity  and  cooperation"  between  the  two  countries.  As  part 
of  the  Vietnamese  aid  program  to  Cambodia,  a  joint  scheme  of 
pairing  Cambodian  provinces  with  Vietnamese  "sister  provinces" 
was  inaugurated  in  the  same  year  for  the  purposes  of  economic 
cooperation  and  of  technical,  educational  and  cultural  exchange. 
Cambodia's  Rotanokiri  Province,  however,  was  linked  with  two 
neighboring  Vietnamese  provinces — Nghia  Binh  and  Gia  Lai-Cong 
Turn.  In  addition,  the  municipality  of  Phnom  Penh  was  paired 
with  two  Vietnamese  cities — Ho  Chi  Minh  City  and  Hanoi.  Ex- 
cept for  the  municipalities  of  Hanoi  and  Haiphong,  all  of  the  Viet- 
namese participants  in  the  scheme  were  located  in  former  South 
Vietnam  near  their  Cambodian  counterparts  (see  fig.  1;  table  A). 

The  paired  provinces  were  engaged  mostly  in  barter  trade  the 
volume  and  value  of  which  were  unpublicized.  Some  observers 


170 


The  Economy 


argued  that  the  system  facilitated  the  integration  of  Cambodia's 
economy  into  Vietnam's.  They  pointed  to  the  case  of  Batdambang 
Province,  which  sent  tons  of  rice  to  its  overpopulated  and  underfed 
Vietnamese  sister  province,  Quang  Nam-Da  Nang,  in  exchange 
for  bicycles  and  cement.  In  another  case,  Cambodia's  Siemreab- 
Otdar  Meanchey  Province,  supplied  Vietnamese  counterparts  in 
Binh  Tri  Thien  Province  with  unmilled  rice  and  other  agricultural 
products;  in  return,  Vietnam  supplied  workers  from  Hue  and  its 
suburbs  to  help  run  the  building  industry  in  Siemreab-Otdar  Mean- 
chey. This  exchange  came  at  the  expense  of  Cambodian  workers, 
who  were  assigned  to  find  clay,  while  the  new  Vietnamese  settlers 
produced  bricks  and  tiles  and  made  a  good  living.  In  Siemreab 
city,  the  Vietnamese  also  assumed  control  of  the  biggest  fish- sauce 
factory. 

According  to  a  Cambodian  official's  evaluation  of  foreign  cooper- 
ation, the  pairing  system  worked  successfully.  The  exchange  of 
goods  between  the  sister  provinces  and  cities  helped  "meet  the  needs 
of  the  people  promptly."  Reportedly,  the  system  also  helped  Cam- 
bodia fulfill  all  of  its  development  targets  for  1986.  In  February 
1986,  Cambodia  and  Vietnam  signed  an  agreement  to  double  their 
trade  for  that  year. 

Soviet  Union 

The  first  important  trade  agreement  between  Cambodia  and  the 
Soviet  Union  was  signed  in  February  1983  and  covered  three  years, 
1983  through  1985.  According  to  a  Soviet  source,  Moscow's  trade 
turnover  with  Cambodia  during  this  period  increased  from  71.8 
to  100.3  million  rubles  (for  value  of  the  ruble,  see  Glossary).  Cam- 
bodian exports  were  mainly  rubber,  while  imports  from  the  Soviet 
Union  consisted  of  refined  petroleum  products,  textiles,  and  chem- 
ical fertilizers  (see  table  14,  Appendix  A). 

In  July  1984,  Cambodia — following  the  examples  of  Vietnam, 
Laos,  and  the  East  European  countries — set  up  an  Intergovern- 
mental Commission  for  Trade,  Economic,  Scientific,  and  Tech- 
nical Cooperation  to  manage  its  bilateral  trade  with  the  Soviet 
Union.  The  first  session  of  the  commission  was  held  in  January 
1985.  At  its  fourth  meeting,  in  December  1987,  protocols  were 
signed  regarding  the  restoration  of  rubber  plantations  and  the 
development  of  some  joint  state  enterprises. 

On  March  28,  1986,  the  two  countries  signed  a  five-year  trade 
and  aid  agreement  for  the  period  1986  to  1990  that  would  double 
the  level  of  trade  over  that  of  the  previous  five-year  period.  The 
Soviet  export  package  included  tractors,  fertilizer,  petroleum 
products,  machines,  and  raw  materials.  In  exchange,  Cambodia 


171 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

was  to  export  raw  rubber,  timber,  and  plant-based  industrial 
products  such  as  lacquer.  According  to  the  Phnom  Penh  Domes- 
tic News  Service,  by  the  end  of  1986  Cambodia  had  shipped  91 
percent  of  its  planned  exports  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  had  received 
104  percent  of  its  planned  imports  in  return.  During  Cambodian 
Prime  Minister  Hun  Sen's  visit  to  Moscow  in  July  1987,  the  Soviet 
press  reported  that  the  volume  of  goods  sold  by  the  Soviet  Union 
to  Cambodia  in  the  1986  to  1990  period  would  increase  one-and- 
one-half  times  over  the  previous  five-year  period,  whereas  goods 
sold  by  Cambodia  would  increase  more  than  four  times.  In  Novem- 
ber 1987,  the  two  countries  concluded  a  trade-payments  agreement 
for  1988.  Under  the  terms  of  this  agreement,  the  Soviet  Union  was 
to  ship  vehicles,  tractor  equipment,  and  fertilizer  and  would  receive 
in  exchange  "traditional  export  goods"  from  Cambodia.  Trade 
turnover  between  the  two  countries  was  projected  to  reach  nearly 
80  million  rubles  in  1988. 

East  Germany 

In  1986  the  total  trade  between  Cambodia  and  East  Germany 
reached  about  14  million  rubles,  a  17  percent  increase  over  the  1985 
total  of  12  million  rubles.  Cambodia  exported  more  than  12  mil- 
lion rubles  worth  of  rubber  to  East  Germany  and  an  additional 
million  rubles  worth  of  other  goods.  Cambodia's  imports  from  East 
Germany  amounted  in  value  to  more  than  965,000  rubles. 

Czechoslovakia 

Trade  between  Cambodia  and  Czechoslovakia  totaled  4.4  mil- 
lion rubles  in  1985.  In  1986  Cambodia  exported  800  tons  of  rub- 
ber, more  than  400  cubic  meters  of  timber,  and  700  tons  of  soybeans 
to  Czechoslovakia.  Cambodian  imports  from  Czechoslovakia  con- 
sisted chiefly  of  medicine  and  cloth.  The  two  countries  signed  a 
protocol  in  Prague  on  October  29,  1987,  on  the  exchange  of  goods 
planned  for  1988.  Under  the  terms  of  the  protocol,  total  trade  would 
increase  by  19  percent  over  the  1987  level.  Cambodia  was  to  ex- 
port rubber,  beans,  and  timber  to  Czechoslovakia  and  was  to  im- 
port tractors,  diesel  engines,  and  pharmaceuticals. 

Poland 

Cambodia's  trade  with  Poland  between  1982  and  1985  was  es- 
timated at  4.4  million  rubles.  Cambodia  exported  rubber,  timber, 
and  soybeans  and  imported  Polish  textiles,  ship  engines,  and  glass- 
ware. The  two  countries  set  a  trade  target  for  1986  to  1990  amount- 
ing to  14.3  million  rubles. 


172 


The  Economy 


In  1986  the  trade  between  Cambodia  and  Poland  amounted  to 
2.1  million  rubles.  On  February  18,  1987,  the  two  countries 
negotiated  a  trade  agreement  for  the  year  stipulating  that  Cambo- 
dia would  export  crepe  rubber,  timber,  furniture,  soybeans,  se- 
same seeds,  and  farm  products;  it  would  import,  in  return,  antirust 
paint,  soldering  rods,  sewing  machines,  boat  engines,  raw  materials 
for  medicine,  and  consumer  goods. 

Illicit  Trade  with  Thailand  and  with  Singapore 

In  addition  to  official  trade  with  communist  states,  undeclared, 
uncontrolled,  but  government- tolerated  trade  with  Thailand  and 
with  Singapore  took  place  among  private  merchants,  despite  the 
trade  embargo  these  two  countries  had  imposed  on  Cambodia. 
Prime  Minister  Hun  Sen  reportedly  declared  that,  "If  the  govern- 
ment can't  carry  out  this  trade  and  the  people  can,  we  allow  them 
to  do  it." 

Most  of  Cambodia's  trade  with  Thailand  took  place  in  border 
and  in  coastal  areas,  particularly  at  the  southwestern  island  of  Kaoh 
Kong  in  the  Gulf  of  Thailand.  The  illicit  barter  consisted  of  ex- 
changing Cambodian  dried  fish,  fresh  crabs,  shrimp,  lobster,  animal 
hides,  elephant  tusks,  baby  crocodiles,  and  gemstones  for  Thai 
clothing,  sandals,  toothpaste  and  toothbrushes,  food,  and  bicycles. 
The  total  value  of  this  growing  illicit  trade  is  not  known,  but  some 
private  sources  estimated  that  it  amounted  to  more  than  US$1  mil- 
lion a  month. 

Cambodia's  illicit  trade  with  Singapore  was  more  visible.  Ships 
registered  in  Singapore  arrived  regularly  in  Phnom  Penh  to  deliver 
supplies  to  international  relief  organizations,  operating  in  the  coun- 
try, as  well  as  to  private  companies.  International  agencies  esti- 
mated the  value  of  undeclared  trade  with  Singapore  at  US$2  million 
in  1985. 

Foreign  Economic  and  Technical  Assistance 

In  the  1980s,  Cambodia's  economy  relied  heavily  on  multilateral 
aid  and  on  bilateral  economic  assistance  from  Comecon  countries. 
The  largest  donor  was  the  Soviet  Union,  followed  by  Vietnam.  East 
Germany,  Czechoslovakia,  Poland,  Hungary,  and  Bulgaria  sent 
mostly  humanitarian  aid,  and  they  offered  scientific  and  cultural 
assistance.  Many  Cambodian  students  received  scholarships  to 
study  in  these  countries. 

Western  countries  channeled  aid  through  international  organi- 
zations, including  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross, 
the  UN  Children's  Fund,  and  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organi- 
zation (FAO),  the  World  Food  Program  (WFP),  and  the  UN  High 


173 


Cambodia 


Commissioner  for  Refugees.  Private  agencies  that  contributed  to 
the  rehabilitation  of  the  Cambodian  economy  included  Oxfam,  the 
American  Catholic  Relief  Services,  the  American  Friends  Service 
Committee,  the  Church  World  Service,  the  World  Council  of 
Churches,  the  Lutheran  World  Service,  CARE,  and  the  Cooper- 
ation Internationale  pour  le  Developpement  et  la  Solidarite  (a 
European  Roman  Catholic  group). 

Soviet  Aid 

Soviet  economic  assistance  to  Cambodia  was  projected  to  reach 
284  million  rubles  for  the  1979  to  1990  period,  according  to  figures 
made  public  in  November  1987.  During  the  years  1979  to  1980, 
when  the  new  Cambodian  government  clung  precariously  to  power, 
Moscow  provided  Phnom  Penh  with  a  200  million  ruble  grant  to 
help  fight  famine  and  to  restore  the  Cambodian  economy.  From 
1980  to  1985,  Soviet  aid,  amounting  to  44  million  rubles,  supported 
the  restoration  of  medical  and  educational  centers  and  included 
the  provision  of  tractors,  trucks,  and  road-repair  equipment.  For 
Cambodia's  First  Plan,  the  Soviet  Union  provided  Phnom  Penh 
with  aid  worth  40  million  rubles,  an  amount  that  represented  ap- 
proximately a  1 0  percent  decrease  over  that  given  during  the  previ- 
ous five  years. 

During  the  1980s,  Soviet  credits  helped  to  restore  thirty  facili- 
ties in  various  sectors,  including  electricity,  agriculture,  health,  edu- 
cation, transport,  and  communications.  Major  Soviet-assisted 
projects  included  two  power  plants,  one  in  Phnom  Penh  (completed 
in  1984)  and  the  other  in  Kampong  Saom  (completed  in  1985); 
the  renovation  and  servicing  of  the  500-bed  Kampuchea-USSR 
Friendship  Hospital  (a  200-bed  military  hospital),  the  Kampuchea- 
USSR  Friendship  Technical  Institute,  the  Pushkin  Russian  Lan- 
guage Institute,  the  Institute  of  Agronomy  at  Chamka  Dong  (all 
established  in  1985-86);  a  seed  development  center;  and  a  ferrocon- 
crete factory.  To  assist  the  rehabilitation  of  the  rubber  industry, 
the  Soviet  Union  helped  Cambodia  to  plant  rubber  trees  on  20,000 
hectares  of  land  and  to  restart  a  crepe-processing  plant  that  could 
generate  20,000  tons  of  natural  rubber  annually.  On  April  26,  1986, 
the  Soviet  Union  signed  an  agreement  to  provide  assistance  for 
several  projects,  including  the  construction  of  an  Intersputnik 
ground  satellite  station,  a  circus,  a  veterinary  center,  three  tractor- 
repair  workshops,  and  printers  for  the  semiweekly  newspaper 
Pracheachon  (The  People).  Moscow  also  supplied  credits  for  agricul- 
tural and  marine  projects.  Finally,  the  Soviets  provided  1,285 
scholarships  to  Cambodian  students  for  the  period  1986  to  1990, 


174 


The  Economy 


many  fewer  than  the  2,364  scholarships  that  they  had  awarded  from 
1980  to  1986. 

Vietnamese  Aid 

Vietnam's  economic  and  technical  assistance  to  Cambodia  were 
difficult  to  evaluate  because  neither  side  chose  to  disclose  the  pre- 
cise monetary  value  of  such  aid.  For  example,  the  Cambodian 
Domestic  News  Service  acknowledged  that  in  1986  the  Vietnamese 
had  given  Cambodia  4 'some  aid  with  no  strings  attached"  for  the 
construction  of  work  sites  in  Kampong  Chhnang  and  for  the  Phnom 
Penh-Hanoi  Friendship  Kindergarten  but  did  not  disclose  the 
amount  of  money  involved  in  these  projects. 

Vietnamese  officials  have  indicated  vaguely  that  their  friendship 
treaty  with  Cambodia  committed  them  to  an  annual  aid  package 
of  at  least  US$25  million.  During  the  first  years  of  the  emergency 
period,  Vietnam's  aid  was  estimated  by  outside  sources  at  US$56 
million  in  1979  and  at  US$62  million  in  1980. 

A  large  part  of  Vietnamese  aid  was  assistance  in  kind,  particu- 
larly food,  medical  and  school  supplies,  household  commodities, 
and  commercial  vehicles,  such  as  passenger  buses  for  Phnom  Penh. 
One  important  and  lasting  form  of  Vietnamese  aid  consisted  of 
a  technical  assistance  package  that  included  the  services  of  Viet- 
namese advisers  and  technical  experts  as  well  as  training  for  Cam- 
bodian cadres  and  personnel.  According  to  the  Cambodian  official 
news  agency,  a  total  of  431  cadres  and  other  personnel  received 
technical  training  in  Vietnam  in  1986.  In  addition,  through  bilateral 
agreements,  Vietnamese  experts  conducted  short-term,  on-the-job 
training  at  several  Cambodian  ministries,  general  directorates,  and 
offices.  The  Cambodians  reportedly  preferred  this  form  of  on-site 
training. 

It  was  reported  officially  that  Cambodian- Vietnamese  coopera- 
tion had  led  to  the  completion  of  sixty-five  projects.  Other  projects 
scheduled  for  the  First  Plan  included  consumer- goods  enterprises, 
small  industrial  and  handicraft  workshops,  animal  breeding,  and 
the  building  of  a  greenbelt  around  Phnom  Penh. 

International  and  Western  Aid 

UN  relief  organizations  (the  UN  Children's  Fund,  the  UN  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees,  FAO,  and  WFP)  and  the  Interna- 
tional Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  put  together  a  disaster  relief 
program  in  1979  to  help  the  Cambodian  people  and  refugees  over- 
come famine  and  disease.  The  cost  of  the  program  amounted  to 
US$633.9  million  from  October  1979  through  December  1981 .  The 
United  States  contributed  approximately  one-third  of  this  total 


175 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

emergency  aid.  Officials  in  charge  of  the  program  channeled  about 
one-half  of  the  total  US$633.9  million  (US$334.6  million)  to  areas 
under  government  control.  They  allocated  the  other  half  to  relief 
efforts  in  border  areas  and  to  Cambodian  refugees  living  outside 
the  country.  During  the  same  period,  private  volunteer  agencies 
provided  emergency  aid  amounting  to  approximately  US$100 
million. 

After  the  emergency  period,  the  UN  aid  program  to  the  Heng 
Samrin  government  declined  drastically.  In  1983  an  estimated  US$4 
million  was  raised  against  a  planned  budget  of  US$16  million; 
however,  the  UN  Border  Relief  Operation  (UNBRO)  continued 
its  aid  programs  for  Cambodian  refugees  in  camps  along  the  Thai- 
Cambodian  border.  According  to  the  United  States  Department 
of  State,  UNBRO  spent  nearly  US$35  million  on  relief  efforts  in 
1985,  of  which  the  United  States  contributed  US$12  million.  The 
same  year,  the  United  States  gave  US$800,000  in  commodities  to 
the  WFP  and  another  US$2  million  to  the  International  Commit- 
tee of  the  Red  Cross  for  their  border  relief  activities. 

Finance 

Reliable  information  on  the  national  budget,  on  banking,  and 
on  the  money  supply  in  1987,  was  unavailable.  However,  Cam- 
bodia was  known  to  have  raised  revenues  through  rental  and  utility 
fees,  taxes,  business  registrations,  sales  of  goods  by  state  organi- 
zations, and  exports.  Budgetary  financing  came  largely  from  the 
Soviet  Union,  Vietnam  and,  to  a  much  smaller  extent,  from  other 
Comecon  members.  The  government  allocated  most  of  the  budget 
to  current  expenditures,  such  as  those  for  defense  and  for  state  em- 
ployees' salaries,  the  latter  of  which  were  augmented  by  allowances 
of  rice,  cloth,  cigarettes,  soap,  sugar  and  other  consumer  goods 
(see  table  15,  Appendix  A). 

Banking 

The  creation  of  the  People's  National  Bank  of  Kampuchea  in 
1980  reestablished  Cambodia's  banking  system,  which  Pol  Pot  had 
abolished  immediately  after  the  fall  of  Phnom  Penh  in  1975.  The 
bank's  chairman  held  ministerial  rank  in  the  government  (see 
Government  Structure,  ch.  4).  By  1984  more  than  thirty  branch 
banks  were  in  operation.  The  main  functions  of  the  bank  were  to 
provide  funds  for  state  commerce  and  credits  for  agriculture. 

Currency 

The  Heng  Samrin  government  reintroduced  the  country's  cur- 
rency, the  riel,  in  March  1980,  at  which  time  the  value  of  one  riel 


176 


The  Economy 


equaled  the  value  of  one  kilogram  of  rice.  The  state  controlled  all 
foreign  exchange,  and  the  official  exchange  rate  for  visitors  was  4 
riels  to  US$1  in  1980.  After  five  years  of  relative  stability,  the  govern- 
ment devalued  the  currency  to  30  riels  per  US$1  in  January  1986. 
A  subsequent  devaluation,  reducing  the  rate  to  100  riels  per  US$1 , 
took  place  in  October  1987.  The  move  was  intended  to  curb  infla- 
tion, to  stop  the  growing  black  market,  and  to  bring  in  more  for- 
eign currency.  The  free-market  rate  in  Phnom  Penh  at  the  time  was 
125  to  130  riels  per  US$1.  In  December  1987,  the  People's  Na- 
tional Bank  of  Kampuchea  issued  new  five-  and  ten-riel  notes  in 
blue  and  green  and  invalidated  the  country's  old  red  bank  notes, 
in  an  effort  to  eliminate  the  problem  of  counterfeit  currency. 

Taxes 

The  government  approved  the  country's  first  tax  laws  in  Novem- 
ber 1982  and  implemented  them  in  1983.  There  were  three 
categories  of  taxes — business,  import,  and  agricultural.  In  theory, 
the  tax  laws  stipulated  that  all  private  economic  enterprises  should 
pay  taxes,  while  tax  schedules  varied  according  to  income,  goods 
imported,  and  agricultural  productivity.  The  Ministry  of  Finance 
was  responsible  for  tax  assessments  and  for  collections  on  a  na- 
tional level.  At  subordinate  government  echelons,  provincial  and 
district  committees  were  charged  with  this  duty. 

In  practice,  the  government  faced  many  difficulties  in  collect- 
ing taxes.  Eventually,  it  revised  assessments  to  make  taxation  ac- 
ceptable to  the  business  community  and  to  the  peasantry.  For 
example,  the  agricultural  tax  (also  called  the  "patriotic  contribu- 
tion"), introduced  during  the  1983  to  1984  harvest  season,  report- 
edly was  suspended  in  1985,  but  was  reimposed  a  year  later. 
Agricultural  tax  assessments  were  based  on  yields  and  plots,  such 
as  lowland  paddy,  river  banks,  garden,  hillside  fields,  plantation 
crop,  or  highland  cropland.  The  government,  however,  granted 
new  concessions  to  some  agricultural  cooperatives,  which  previ- 
ously had  been  taxed  heavily  on  high-yielding  rice  harvests,  without 
regard  to  the  high  costs  of  production  and  the  high  risks  in  testing 
new  varieties  of  rice.  Cultivators  who  grew  rice  in  both  the  rainy 
and  the  dry  seasons  were  subject  to  tax  assessments  on  each  crop. 
Partial  and  full  tax  exemptions  were  granted  to  peasants  who 
brought  vacant  land  into  production,  to  families  of  soldiers,  to  the 
war  handicapped,  and  to  victims  of  natural  calamities. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

War  and  continuing  fighting  severely  damaged  Cambodia's 
transportation  system — a  system  that  had  been  inadequately 


177 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


developed  in  peacetime.  The  country's  weak  infrastructure  hin- 
dered emergency  relief  efforts  and  created  tremendous  problems 
of  procurement  of  supplies  in  general  and  of  distribution.  Cambo- 
dia received  Soviet  technical  assistance  and  equipment  to  support 
the  maintenance  of  the  transportation  network. 

Roads  and  Highways 

In  the  late  1980s,  Cambodia  had  about  13,350  kilometers  of 
roads,  compared  with  19,480  kilometers  in  1969.  Of  the  current 
total,  only  about  20  percent  of  the  roads  and  highways  were  cov- 
ered with  asphalt  and  were  in  passable  condition;  about  50  per- 
cent of  the  roads  were  made  of  crushed  stone,  gravel,  or  improved 
earth;  and  the  remaining  approximately  30  percent  were  unim- 
proved earth  or  were  little  more  than  tracks.  In  1981  Cambodia 
opened  a  newly  repaired  section  of  National  Route  1 ,  which  runs 
southeast  from  Phnom  Penh  to  the  Vietnamese  border.  The  road, 
which  suffered  damage  during  the  war  years,  was  restored  most 
probably  by  Vietnamese  army  engineers.  In  the  late  1980s,  Cam- 
bodia's road  network  was  both  underutilized  and  unable  to  meet 
even  the  modest  demands  placed  upon  it  by  an  unindustrialized 
and  agrarian  society  (see  fig.  8).  Commercial  vehicles,  such  as  trucks 
and  buses,  were  insufficient  in  number  and  lacked  spare  parts  neces- 
sary to  keep  them  running.  Road  construction  and  maintenance 
were  ignored  by  a  financially  hard-pressed  government,  while  in- 
surgents regularly  destroyed  bridges  and  rendered  some  routes  un- 
safe for  travel. 

Railroads 

Cambodia  had  two  rail  lines,  both  originating  in  Phnom  Penh, 
totaling  about  612  kilometers  of  single,  one-meter- gauge  track.  The 
French  built  the  first  line,  which  runs  from  Phnom  Penh  to  Paoy 
Pet  on  the  Thai  border,  between  1930  and  1940.  Assistance  from 
France,  West  Germany,  and  China,  between  1960  and  1969,  sup- 
ported the  construction  of  the  second  line,  which  runs  from  Phnom 
Penh  to  Kampong  Saom.  Rail  service  ceased  during  the  war,  but 
resumed  in  the  early  1980s.  Guerrilla  activities,  however,  continued 
to  disrupt  service. 

Water  Transportation 

The  nation's  extensive  inland  waterways  were  important  histor- 
ically in  domestic  trade.  The  Mekong  and  the  Tonle  Sab  rivers, 
their  numerous  tributaries,  and  the  Tonle  Sap  provided  avenues 
of  considerable  length,  including  3 , 700  kilometers  navigable  all  year 
by  craft  drawing  0.6  meters  and  another  282  kilometers  navigable 


178 


I 

i 


The  Economy 


to  craft  drawing  1.8  meters.  In  some  areas,  especially  west  of  the 
Mekong  River  and  north  of  the  Tonle  Sab  River,  the  villages  were 
completely  dependent  on  waterways  for  communications.  Launches, 
junks,  or  barges  transported  passengers,  rice,  and  other  food  in 
the  absence  of  roads  and  railways. 

According  to  the  Ministry  of  Communications,  Transport,  and 
Posts,  Cambodia's  main  ferry  services  crossing  the  Basak  River 
and  the  middle  Mekong  River  at  Neak  Luong  (Phumi  Prek  Khsay), 
Tonle  Bet,  Sre  Ambel,  Kampong  Cham,  and  Stoeng  Treng  were 
restored  in  1985.  The  major  Mekong  River  navigation  routes  also 
were  cleared  for  traffic. 

Ports 

Cambodia  has  two  major  ports,  Phnom  Penh  and  Kampong 
Saom,  and  five  minor  ones.  Phnom  Penh,  located  at  the  junction 
of  the  Basak,  the  Mekong,  and  the  Tonle  Sab  rivers,  is  the  only 
river  port  capable  of  receiving  8, 000- ton  ships  during  the  wet  sea- 
son and  5, 000- ton  ships  during  the  dry  season.  It  remains  an  im- 
portant port  for  international  commerce  as  well  as  for  domestic 
communications. 

Kampong  Saom,  Cambodia's  only  seaport,  reopened  in  late 
1979.  It  had  been  built  in  1960  with  French  assistance.  In  1980 
some  180  Soviet  dockworkers,  having  brought  with  them  forklifts 
and  trucks,  were  reportedly  working  at  Kampong  Saom  as  long- 
shoremen or  as  instructors  of  unskilled  Cambodian  port  workers. 
By  1984  approximately  1,500  Cambodian  port  workers  were  han- 
dling 2.5  tons  of  cargo  per  day.  According  to  official  statistics,  Kam- 
pong Saom  had  handled  only  769,500  tons  in  the  four  prior  years 
(1979  to  1983),  a  level  that  contrasted  sharply  with  the  port's  peace- 
time capacity  of  about  1  million  tons  of  cargo  per  year. 

Airports 

The  country  possesses  twenty- six  airfields,  of  which  only  thir- 
teen were  usable  in  the  mid-1980s.  Eight  airfields  had  permanent- 
surface  runways.  Pochentong  International  Airport  near  Phnom 
Penh  is  the  largest  airport;  it  also  serves  as  the  main  base  for  the 
renascent  Cambodian  Air  Force  (see  Kampuchean,  or  Khmer,  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Armed  Forces,  ch.  5).  Cambodia  opened  a  new 
Soviet-built  airfield  at  Ream  near  Kampong  Saom  in  late  1983. 
There  are  additional  secondary  airports  in  Siemreab  and  in  Bat- 
dambang. 

Air  Kampuchea  was  established  in  1982  and  flew  only  one 
route — from  Phnom  Penh  to  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  in  Vietnam.  In 
1984  commercial  air  service  was  inaugurated  between  Phnom  Penh 


181 


180 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

and  Hanoi  with  the  arrival  at  Hanoi  International  Airport  of  the 
Kampuchean  Civil  Aviation  Company's  (AKASCHOR)  first  flight. 
Since  then,  there  has  been  regular  air  service  from  Phnom  Penh 
to  Hanoi,  Vientiane,  and  Moscow. 

Telecommunications 

Postal,  telegraph,  and  telegram  services  under  the  Ministry  of 
Communications,  Transport,  and  Posts  were  restored  throughout 
most  of  the  country  in  the  early  1980s.  Radio  communications  were 
frequent;  the  Voice  of  the  Kampuchean  People  broadcasted  ten 
hours  daily  from  Phnom  Penh  in  the  late  1980s.  An  estimated 
171,000  radio  sets  existed  in  the  country  in  1984  (the  last  year  for 
which  data  were  available).  Cambodia's  only  television  station 
began  broadcasting,  with  Vietnamese  assistance,  in  December  1984. 
Color  transmissions  began  in  July  1986. 

In  January  1987,  the  Soviet-aided  Intersputnik  space  commu- 
nications station  began  operation  in  Phnom  Penh  and  established 
two-way  telecommunication  links  between  the  Cambodian  capital 
and  the  cities  of  Moscow,  Hanoi,  Vientiane,  and  Paris.  The  com- 
pletion of  the  earth  satellite  station  (built  on  the  grounds  of  Phnom 
Penh's  old  Roman  Catholic  cathedral),  restored  the  telephone  and 
telex  links  among  Phnom  Penh,  Hanoi,  and  other  socialist  coun- 
tries for  the  first  time  since  1975.  Although  telecommunications 
services  were  limited  to  the  government,  these  advances  in  com- 
munications helped  break  down  the  country's  isolation,  both  in- 
ternally and  internationally. 

*    *  * 

The  major  publications  on  statistical  data  and  key  indicators  of 
Cambodia's  economy  are  the  UN  Statistical  Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific,  the  FAO  Production  Yearbook,  the  ADB  Key  Indicators,  the  EIU 
Quarterly  Economic  Review  of  Indochina,  the  Far  East  and  Australasia, 
and  the  Asian  Economic  Handbook. 

First-hand  observations  and  field  reports  from  Cambodia  are 
found  in  various  issues  of  the  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  and  Kees- 
ing's  Records  of  World  Events.  Cambodian  official  statements,  news, 
and  radio  broadcasts  are  monitored  and  translated  into  English  in 
the  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service's  Daily  Report:  East  Asia 
and  the  Joint  Publications  Research  Service's  Southeast  Asia  Report, 
two  important  sources  of  information. 

Scholarly  studies  and  analytical  essays  on  the  Cambodian  econ- 
omy are  scarce.  Among  the  most  useful  is  Khieu  Samphan's  doc- 
toral dissertation,  Cambodia's  Economy  and  Industrial  Development,  a 


182 


The  Economy 


helpful  guide  to  understanding  the  Pol  Pot  regime's  economic  policy 
and  thinking.  Ben  Kiernan's  ''Kampuchea  1979-81:  National 
Rehabilitation  in  the  Eye  of  an  International  Storm"  and  Michael 
Vickery's  Kampuchea  offer  good  analyses  of  the  economic  system 
and  its  problems,  particularly  in  agriculture  and  in  industry.  Two 
studies  on  the  serious  food  problem  in  Cambodia  are  The  Quality 
of  Mercy  by  William  Shawcross,  who  focused  his  study  on  the  Emer- 
gency Food  Aid  Program  to  Cambodia  during  the  critical  1979-83 
period,  and  D.  Mosyakov's  "Solving  the  Food  Problem  in  Kam- 
puchea." (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bib- 
liography.) 


183 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


The  Independence  Monument  in  Phnom  Penh 


THE  1970S  WERE  cruel  years  for  the  Khmer  people,  and  their 
impact  was  still  being  felt  in  the  late  1980s.  The  decade  opened 
turbulently,  with  the  deposition  of  ruler  Prince  Norodom  Sihanouk, 
who  had  been  in  power  from  1941,  during  the  period  when  the 
war  in  Vietnam  boiled  over  into  Cambodia.  The  country,  mili- 
tarily feeble  and  putatively  neutral,  soon  plunged  into  a  succes- 
sion of  upheavals,  punctuated  by  foreign  incursions,  civil  war,  and 
famine.  The  Khmer  Rouge  (see  Appendix  B),  under  Pol  Pot  (also 
known  as  Saloth  Sar)  and  aided  initially  by  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  Vietnam  (North  Vietnam),  overran  in  1975  the  pro-Western 
Khmer  Republic  (see  Appendix  B)  led  by  the  president,  General 
Lon  Nol.  At  least  1  million  Cambodians  either  were  murdered  or 
starved  to  death  under  the  Pol  Pot  regime.  In  1979,  however,  Viet- 
nam ousted  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime  and  installed  a  puppet  re- 
gime headed  by  Heng  Samrin,  a  former  Khmer  Rouge  military 
commander  (see  fig.  9). 

The  Vietnamese  set  out  to  tighten  their  grip  on  the  country  by 
occupying  and  colonizing  it.  Meanwhile,  the  deposed  Khmer  Rouge 
regime  regrouped  in  remote  enclaves  near  the  Thai  border  to  give 
armed  resistance  to  Vietnamese  forces  and  the  puppet  government 
in  Phnom  Penh,  the  nation's  capital. 

At  the  end  of  the  1970s,  Cambodia  was  divided  politically  and 
territorially  under  two  regimes,  each  claiming  to  be  the  sole  legiti- 
mate government  of  the  nation.  Since  then,  the  competing  regimes 
have  been  locked  in  an  armed  struggle  in  Cambodia,  as  one  side 
contested  the  Vietnamese  presence  and  the  other  acquiesced  more 
or  less  grudgingly  to  its  role  as  Hanoi's  surrogate. 

Vietnam  promised  repeatedly  to  leave  Cambodia  by  1990,  and 
by  the  end  of  1987,  Hanoi  had  staged  six  partial  troop  withdrawals. 
Officials  in  Hanoi  indicated,  however,  that  phased  withdrawals 
would  end  and  that  Vietnamese  forces  would  return  to  Cambodia 
if  there  were  a  threat  to  Vietnam's  national  security.  Members  of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  and  most 
Western  nations  were  skeptical  of  the  moves  and  viewed  them  as 
merely  disguised  troop  rotations.  Among  Cambodia's  noncom- 
munist  neighbors,  Thailand  especially  was  concerned  about  the 
threat  posed  to  its  own  security  by  a  large,  well-armed  Vietnamese 
army  just  to  the  east  of  its  borders.  On  the  diplomatic  front,  the 
United  Nations  (UN)  routinely  condemned  the  Vietnamese  mili- 
tary presence  in  Cambodia  on  an  annual  basis,  and  most  countries 


187 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


KINGDOM  OF  CAMBODIA 
(1953-70) 

I   

KHMER  REPUBLIC 

(1970-75) 

i  zz: 

DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA 

(DK)  (1975-79) 


PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC  OF 
KAMPUCHEA  (PRK)  (1979-  ) 


DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA 

(DK)  (1979-82) 


COALITION  GOVERNMENT  OF  2 
DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA 

(CGDK)  (1982-  ) 


DEMOCRATIC3 
KAMPUCHEA 

(DK) 


KHMER  PEOPLE'S 
NATIONAL  LIBERATION 
FRONT  (KPNLF) 


NATIONAL  UNITED  FRONT 
FOR  AN  INDEPENDENT, 
NEUTRAL,  PEACEFUL,  & 

COOPERATIVE  CAMBODIA 
(FUNCINPEC) 


  Recognized  by  United  Nations  as  de  jure  Cambodian  state 

_  De  facto  control  of  Cambodia  since  1979 
  Partners  in  the  CGDK 

1  Retained  de  jure  status  even  after  fall  of  Phnom  Penh  in  January  1979. 

2  Supplanted  Democratic  Kampuchea  as  de  jure  Cambodian  representative  in 
United  Nations  since  June  1982. 

3  If  CDGK  proves  unworkable,  Democratic  Kampuchea  will  resume  its  status 
as  sole,  legitimate  Cambodian  representative  in  the  United  Nations. 


Figure  9.  Successive  Governments  in  Cambodia  (since  Independence) 

withheld  diplomatic  recognition  from  the  pro-Vietnamese  Heng 
Samrin  regime  in  Phnom  Penh. 

In  1987  uncertain  prospects  for  peace  continued  to  vex  Cambo- 
dian nationalists.  Differences — among  warring  Cambodian  factions 
and  their  respective  foreign  sponsors  over  the  projected  terms  of 
a  possible  settlement — were  likely  to  remain  unresolved  in  the  fore- 
seeable future.  Meanwhile,  the  Cambodian  people  continued  to 
suffer  from  the  war  between  anti- Vietnamese  guerrillas  on  the  one 
side  and  the  Vietnamese  and  the  Heng  Samrin  forces  on  the  other 
side.  The  Cambodian  search  for  reconciliation  among  contending 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


parties  can  be  understood  only  when  the  perspectives  of  foreign 
powers  are  taken  into  account. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  ruling  political  organization  in  Phnom  Penh 
was  the  Marxist-Leninist  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 
Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B),  a  political  offshoot 
of  the  Indochinese  Communist  Party  (ICP — see  Appendix  B), 
founded  by  Ho  Chi  Minh  in  1930.  Heng  Samrin  headed  both  the 
state  bureaucracy  and  the  party  apparatus  in  late  1987.  Hun  Sen, 
prime  minister  since  January  1985,  chaired  the  single-party,  KPRP- 
run  government,  that  was  administered  by  the  Council  of  Ministers. 
In  seeking  to  enlist  mass  support  for  its  regime,  the  KPRP  depended 
on  an  umbrella  popular  front  organization,  affiliated  with  numer- 
ous social  and  political  groups,  that  was  called  the  Kampuchean 
(or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National  Construction  and  Defense 
(KUFNCD — see  Appendix  B).  The  KPRP,  in  exercising  power 
in  Phnom  Penh  under  Vietnamese  mentorship,  pursued  three  main 
objectives:  to  combat  the  enemy  (anti- Vietnamese  resistance 
groups);  to  intensify  production  for  the  fulfillment  of  targets  set 
in  the  First  Five-Year  Program  of  Socioeconomic  Restoration  and 
Development  (1986-90),  hereafter  known  as  the  First  Plan;  and 
to  build  up  the  party's  revolutionary  forces  by  strengthening  the 
regime's  political  and  administrative  infrastructure  and  its  national 
security  establishment.  The  party's  foreign  policy  goals  were  to  rein- 
force solidarity  with  Vietnam  and  to  develop  cooperation  with  the 
Soviet  Union,  the  principal  source  of  economic  assistance  to  the 
government  in  Phnom  Penh. 

The  other  regime  competing  for  legitimacy  in  the  1980s  was  an 
unlikely  partnership  of  feuding  communist  and  noncommunist 
factions,  the  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
(CGDK — see  Appendix  B).  The  coalition  government,  with 
Sihanouk  serving  on  and  off  as  president,  was  formed  in  1982  under 
the  sponsorship  of  China  and  the  ASEAN  states.  The  coalition  com- 
prised the  Khmer  Rouge  and  two  noncommunist  groups  led  by 
Sihanouk  and  Son  Sann.  Son  Sann,  a  former  prime  minister  under 
Sihanouk,  was  known  for  his  dislike  of  Sihanouk  and  of  the  Khmer 
Rouge. 

Despite  its  claim  that  it  was  based  inside  Cambodia,  the  CGDK 
was  a  government  in  exile.  It  operated  out  of  Beijing,  Pyongyang, 
or  Bangkok,  or  wherever  its  three  leaders — Sihanouk,  Khieu  Sam- 
phan,  and  Son  Sann — happened  to  be,  whether  or  not  they  were 
together.  In  the  1984  to  1985  Vietnamese  dry-season  offensive,  the 
coalition  lost  nearly  all  of  its  fixed  guerrilla  bases  along  the  Thai 
border.  Nonetheless,  its  fighters  continued  to  operate  in  small  bands 
in  many  Cambodian  provinces.  The  CGDK's  forces  sought  to  drive 


189 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Vietnamese  out  of  the  country,  to  win  over  the  Cambodians 
who  were  resentful  of  the  Vietnamese,  to  destabilize  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime,  and  to  seek  international  aid  for  continued 
resistance.  The  coalition  government  had  a  distinct  asset  that  its 
rival  lacked — it  was  recognized  by  the  United  Nations  as  the  law- 
ful representative  of  the  state  of  Cambodia. 

Major  Political  Developments,  1977-81 
Background 

The  communist  conquest  of  Phnom  Penh  and  of  Saigon  (re- 
named Ho  Chi  Minh  City)  in  April  1975  seemed  to  presage  reali- 
zation of  Ho  Chi  Minh's  long-cherished  political  dream — stated 
in  a  1935  resolution  of  the  ICP — an  Indochinese  federation  com- 
prising Vietnam,  Laos,  and  Cambodia.  Many  observers  believed — 
because  of  Vietnam's  efforts  to  nurture  a  Cambodian  communist 
party  that  was  tied  closely  to  Hanoi — that  the  Indochinese  federa- 
tion that  emerged  would  be  controlled  by  Hanoi.  The  Khmer  Rouge 
victory  of  1975,  however,  won  by  Pol  Pot's  chauvinistic  and  hard- 
line party  faction  with  its  abiding  distrust  of  Vietnam,  doomed  this 
prospect  for  the  time  being. 

In  mid-1975,  a  series  of  border  clashes  erupted  between  Cam- 
bodian and  Vietnamese  forces.  Each  side  blamed  the  other  for  in- 
itiating the  conflicts,  which  occurred  even  as  Hanoi  defended  the 
Pol  Pot  regime  against  international  criticism  of  atrocities  inside 
Cambodia.  Border  fighting  increased  in  1977,  according  to  some 
reports.  In  June  of  that  year,  Vietnam  proposed  negotiations  to 
settle  the  border  dispute,  but  the  Khmer  Rouge  said  negotiations 
would  be  premature.  In  December,  Cambodia  accused  Vietnam 
of  aggression,  demanded  withdrawal  of  its  troops  from  the  coun- 
try, and  severed  diplomatic  ties.  In  February  1978,  Hanoi  called 
for  an  immediate  end  to  all  hostile  military  activities  in  the  border 
region  and  for  the  conclusion  of  a  peace  treaty.  At  the  same  time, 
Hanoi  denied  the  allegations  that  it  had  been  trying  to  incorporate 
Cambodia  into  an  Indochinese  federation,  adding  that  Vietnam 
had  not  entertained  the  idea  of  federation  since  the  ICP  was  dis- 
solved in  1951.  The  Pol  Pot  regime  continued  to  claim,  however, 
that  Vietnam  had  never  abandoned  the  idea  of  a  federation,  and 
the  regime  called  on  Hanoi  to  cease  activities  aimed  at  overthrow- 
ing the  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea. 

Cambodia  in  Turmoil 

On  December  25,  1978,  Vietnam  launched  a  full-scale  invasion 
of  Cambodia  (see  Vietnamese  Invasion  of  Cambodia,  ch.  5).  Phnom 
Penh  fell,  after  minimal  resistance,  on  January  7,  1979,  and  on 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


the  following  day  an  anti-Khmer  Rouge  faction  announced  the  for- 
mation of  the  Kampuchean  People's  Revolutionary  Council 
(KPRC),  with  Heng  Samrin  as  president  of  the  new  ruling  body. 
On  January  10,  the  KPRC  proclaimed  that  the  new  official  name 
of  Cambodia  was  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  (PRK — 
see  Appendix  B).  Within  a  week,  the  PRK  notified  the  United 
Nations  Security  Council  that  it  was  the  sole  legitimate  govern- 
ment of  the  Cambodian  people. 

Vietnam  was  the  first  country  to  recognize  the  new  regime,  and 
Phnom  Penh  lost  no  time  in  restoring  diplomatic  relations  with 
Hanoi.  From  February  16  to  February  19,  the  PRK  and  Vietnam 
held  their  first  summit  meeting  in  Phnom  Penh  and  cemented  their 
relationship  by  signing  a  twenty-five-year  Treaty  of  Peace,  Friend- 
ship and  Cooperation.  The  treaty  declared  that  the  "peace  and 
security  of  the  two  countries  are  closely  interrelated  and  that  the 
two  Parties  are  duty-bound  to  help  each  other.  ..."  Article  2  of 
the  treaty  dealt  specifically  with  mutual  security  assistance  to  help 
each  defend  against  "all  schemes  and  acts  of  sabotage  by  the  im- 
perialist and  international  reactionary  forces."  The  two  govern- 
ments also  signed  agreements  for  cooperation  on  economic,  cultural, 
educational,  public  health,  and  scientific  and  technological  issues. 

In  rapid  succession,  the  Soviet  Union,  other  Marxist-Leninist 
states,  and  a  number  of  pro-Moscow  developing  countries  had  also 
recognized  the  new  regime.  By  January  1980,  twenty-nine  coun- 
tries had  recognized  the  PRK,  yet  nearly  eighty  countries  continued 
to  recognize  the  Khmer  Rouge. 

More  countries  voiced  opposition  to  Vietnam's  involvement  in 
Cambodia.  Most  vocal  was  Thailand,  the  security  of  which  was 
threatened  directly  by  the  turn  of  events  in  Cambodia.  (Thailand 
shares  an  800-kilometer  border  with  Cambodia,  and  historically 
it  has  regarded  the  country  as  a  buffer  against  Vietnamese 
expansion — see  Regional  Divisions,  ch.  2.)  The  Thai  government 
demanded  Vietnam's  immediate  withdrawal  from  Cambodia  so 
that  the  Cambodians  would  be  able  to  choose  their  own  govern- 
ment without  foreign  interference.  Thailand's  allies  in  ASEAN — 
Indonesia,  Malaysia,  the  Philippines,  and  Singapore — agreed  with 
Bangkok's  position. 

The  United  States  also  agreed  with  Thailand's  position.  Although 
it  had  never  recognized  Democratic  Kampuchea  and  disapproved 
of  the  human  rights  violations  perpetrated  by  the  Khmer  Rouge, 
the  United  States  nonetheless  supported  Democratic  Kampuchea's 
request  for  an  emergency  session  of  the  UN  Security  Council. 
China  expressed  its  support  for  the  Khmer  Rouge  and  even  ac- 
cused Vietnam  of  attempting  to  force  Cambodia  into  an  Indochinese 


191 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

federation  and  of  serving  as  an  "Asian  Cuba" — a  surrogate  for 
the  Soviet  policy  of  global  hegemony. 

Soviet  leaders  hailed  the  PRK's  "remarkable  victory"  and  ex- 
pressed their  full  support  for  a  peaceful,  independent,  democratic, 
and  nonaligned  Cambodia  that  would  advance  toward  socialism. 
Moscow  also  accused  Pol  Pot's  Khmer  Rouge  regime  of  genocide 
and  implied  that  China  had  imposed  the  regime  on  Cambodia. 

Despite  objections  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  from  Czecho- 
slovakia, the  UN  Security  Council  allowed  Prince  Sihanouk  to  argue 
the  case  for  Democratic  Kampuchea  in  early  January  1979. 
Sihanouk — who  had  distanced  himself  from  Khmer  Rouge  bru- 
tality, charged  that  Vietnam  had  committed  flagrant  acts  of  ag- 
gression against  Cambodia,  and  he  asked  the  council  to  demand 
an  end  to  Hanoi's  interference  in  Cambodian  affairs.  He  also  urged 
that  the  council  not  recognize  the  puppet  regime  in  Phnom  Penh, 
and  he  appealed  to  all  nations  to  suspend  aid  to  Vietnam. 

In  the  UN  Security  Council  debate,  Vietnam  unsuccessfully 
challenged  Sihanouk's  claim  to  represent  Cambodia,  asserting  that 
he  spoke  for  a  regime  that  no  longer  existed.  Vietnam  also  charged 
that  the  Pol  Pot  regime  had  provoked  the  border  war  and  that 
Hanoi's  presence  in  Cambodia  was  necessary  and  was  strictly  an 
issue  between  Vietnam  and  the  PRK.  Hanoi  argued,  moreover, 
that  the  Cambodian  crisis  was  a  matter  of  internal  strife  among 
rival  groups  that  was  brought  on  by  Pol  Pot's  atrocities  against 
his  own  countrymen.  Hanoi  actually  asserted  that  there  was  no 
"Cambodian  problem"  that  warranted  a  debate  in  the  UN  or  any- 
where else  in  the  international  political  arena. 

The  fifteen-member  UN  Security  Council,  however,  failed  to 
adopt  a  resolution  on  Cambodia.  Seven  nonaligned  members  on 
the  council  had  submitted  a  draft  resolution,  which  was  endorsed 
by  Britain,  China,  France,  Norway,  Portugal,  and  the  United 
States.  But  the  draft,  which  called  for  a  cease-fire  in  Cambodia 
and  for  the  withdrawal  of  all  foreign  forces  from  that  country,  was 
not  approved  because  of  objections  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  from 
Czechoslovakia. 

The  fate  of  Cambodia  was  interwoven  with  the  security  interests 
of  its  Asian  neighbors.  For  example,  on  February  17,  1979,  China 
attacked  Vietnam,  apparently  to  ease  Vietnamese  pressure  against 
Thailand  and  against  Chinese-supported  Khmer  Rouge  guerril- 
las. The  Cambodian  question  surfaced  again  in  the  UN  Security 
Council  session  that  was  convened  on  February  23  to  consider  end- 
ing the  hostilities  along  the  Vietnamese-Chinese  border  and  in  Cam- 
bodia. This  time  the  focus  was  on  regional  power  politics;  China 
demanded  that  the  UN  Security  Council  censure  Vietnam  for  its 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


invasion  of  Cambodia,  and  the  Soviet  Union  asked  that  the  coun- 
cil condemn  China  for  its  "aggression"  against  Vietnam.  The 
United  States  called  for  the  withdrawal  of  Chinese  forces  from  Viet- 
nam and  of  Vietnamese  forces  from  Cambodia. 

In  late  1979,  the  stage  was  set  for  an  international  political  show- 
down over  Cambodia.  In  September  of  that  year,  the  UN  Gen- 
eral Assembly  rejected  the  efforts  of  the  Soviet  Union,  the  Congo, 
and  Panama  to  challenge  the  legality  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
and  decided  that  it  should  continue  to  be  represented  at  the  United 
Nations.  The  vote  was  seventy-one  to  thirty-five  in  support  of  the 
decision,  with  thirty-four  abstentions.  (Sihanouk,  who  no  longer 
represented  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime,  argued  that  the  Cambo- 
dian seat  should  be  left  vacant  because  neither  of  the  two  Cambo- 
dian claimants  had  the  mandate  of  the  Cambodian  people.)  In 
November,  the  UN  General  Assembly  adopted  an  ASEAN- 
sponsored  resolution  by  a  vote  of  eighty-one  to  twenty-one,  with 
twenty-nine  abstentions,  calling  for  immediate  Vietnamese  disen- 
gagement from  Cambodia.  The  resolution  also  called  on  all  states 
to  refrain  from  interference  in,  and  acts  of  aggression  against,  Cam- 
bodia and  its  Southeast  Asian  neighbors.  The  assembly  mandated 
the  UN  secretary  general  to  explore  the  possibility  of  an  interna- 
tional conference  on  Cambodia  and  appealed  for  international 
humanitarian  aid  for  the  country's  population  and  for  its  refugees 
who  had  fled  to  neighboring  countries. 

Cambodia's  PRK  regime,  under  the  leadership  of  Heng  Samrin, 
set  out  to  restore  the  country's  social  and  economic  life,  which  had 
been  racked  by  a  decade  of  political  turmoil.  During  1979  the  coun- 
try was  still  reeling  from  the  horrors  of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  and 
the  lack  of  educated  and  qualified  personnel  to  staff  administra- 
tive posts  was  hampering  efforts  to  reestablish  a  civil  government. 
Most  of  the  country's  educated  elite  had  been  murdered  during 
the  Pol  Pot  era,  while  others  had  fled  to  safety  in  Vietnam.  (In 
August  1979,  a  Phnom  Penh  "people's  revolutionary  tribunal" 
tried  Pol  Pot  and  his  closest  confidant,  Foreign  Minister  Ieng  Sary, 
in  absentia,  on  charges  of  genocidal  crimes  and  then  sentenced  them 
to  death.)  Another  complication  for  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  was 
the  growing  Khmer  Rouge  guerrilla  resistance  in  the  western  and 
the  northwestern  border  areas. 

By  mid- 1980,  life  in  villages  and  in  towns  had  stabilized  some- 
what, and  relief  aid  from  the  Soviet  Union,  Vietnam,  and  some 
Western  countries  had  helped  to  prevent  mass  starvation.  Mean- 
while, the  regime  had  managed  gradually  to  extend  its  adminis- 
trative control  to  outlying  areas  close  to  the  Thai  border  and  had 
initiated  the  drafting  of  a  constitution  in  January  1980.  The 


193 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

National  Assembly,  which  had  been  elected  in  May  1981,  formally 
adopted  and  promulgated  the  Constitution  in  June. 

But  opposition  to  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  had  been  growing 
since  1979.  The  most  prominent  opposition  group  was  the  Khmer 
Rouge,  which  sought  to  reestablish  its  political  legitimacy  and  to 
mobilize  the  Cambodian  people  against  the  Vietnamese.  In  Janu- 
ary 1979,  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  announced  the  formation  of  the 
Patriotic  and  Democratic  Front  of  the  Great  National  Union  of 
Kampuchea  (PDFGNUK — see  Appendix  B),  a  popular  front 
organization  in  which  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  Communist 
Party  (KCP — see  Appendix  B),  under  Pol  Pot  planned  to  play  a 
dominant  role. 

As  part  of  an  image-rebuilding  effort,  the  Khmer  Rouge  an- 
nounced the  replacement,  in  December  1979,  of  Prime  Minister 
Pol  Pot  with  the  politically  moderate  Khieu  Samphan.  The  replace- 
ment did  not  affect  Pol  Pot's  position  as  leader  of  the  KCP  or  his 
control  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  armed  forces,  officially  called  the 
National  Army  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  (NADK — see  Appen- 
dix B;  National  Army  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  ch.  5).  Khieu 
Samphan  retained  his  position  as  president  of  the  State  Presidium 
of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  a  post  equivalent  to  head  of  state  under 
the  1975  constitution  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  At  about  the  same 
time,  it  also  was  disclosed  that  the  political  program  of  the 
PDFGNUK,  adopted  in  December,  would  serve  as  the  pro- 
visional fundamental  law  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  until  free  elec- 
tions could  be  held.  Sihanouk  described  the  episode  as  a  ploy 
designed  to  give  the  Khmer  Rouge's  "odious  face"  a  mask  of 
respectability. 

The  first  and  principal  noncommunist  resistance  group  was  the 
Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Front  (KPNLF — see  Appen- 
dix B)  led  by  Son  Sann.  The  front's  military  arm  was  the  Khmer 
People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces  (KPNLAF — see 
Appendix  B).  It  was  originally  formed,  in  March  1979,  by  Gen- 
eral Dien  Del,  a  former  army  officer  under  Lon  Non's  Khmer 
Republic  (see  Coalition  Government  Resistance  Forces,  ch.  5).  Son 
Sann's  formation  of  the  KPNLF  on  October  9,  1979,  coincided 
with  the  ninth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  Khmer  Repub- 
lic and  therefore  symbolized  rejection  of  "Sihanoukism."  After  1979 
Son  Sann  and  Sihanouk  often  clashed  over  the  issue  of  coalition- 
building  and  national  reconciliation,  despite  their  common  distaste 
for  the  Khmer  Rouge  and  for  the  Vietnamese  occupation.  After 
1985  the  KPNLF  fell  into  disarray  as  a  result  of  leadership  dis- 
putes in  the  movement's  top  echelon.  By  late  1987,  it  still  had  not 
regained  its  former  stature  or  fighting  strength. 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


The  second  noncommunist,  nationalist  resistance  faction  was  the 
Sihanouk  group  called  initially  the  Movement  for  the  National 
Liberation  of  Kampuchea  (Mouvement  pour  la  Liberation  Nation- 
ale  du  Kampuchea — MOULINAKA — see  Appendix  B),  formed 
in  August  1979  by  Kong  Sileah  after  his  split  with  General  Dien 
Del.  In  September,  Sihanouk  set  up  the  Confederation  of  Khmer 
Nationalists  from  his  base  in  Pyongyang,  Democratic  People's 
Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea).  The  confederation  lacked  sup- 
port because  key  actors  in  the  Cambodian  situation  perceived  it 
to  be  merely  a  forum,  and  that  only  for  "committed  Sihanoukists." 
Around  March  1981 ,  the  MOULINAKA  group  joined  with  other 
small  pro-Sihanouk  factions  to  establish  a  political  organization 
called  the  National  United  Front  for  an  Independent,  Neutral, 
Peaceful,  and  Cooperative  Cambodia  (Front  Uni  National  pour 
un  Cambodge  Independant,  Neutre,  Pacifique,  et  Cooperatif — 
FUNCINPEC — see  Appendix  B).  The  movement  soon  formed  its 
own  armed  wing,  the  Sihanouk  National  Army  (Armee  Nationale 
Sihanoukiste — ANS — see  Appendix  B),  which  began  minor  incur- 
sions into  Cambodia  (see  Coalition  Government  Resistance  Forces, 
ch.  5).  As  a  political  movement,  FUNCINPEC  quickly  acquired 
a  legitimacy  beyond  its  numbers,  because  of  the  impeccable  na- 
tionalist credentials  of  its  head,  Sihanouk.  Moreover,  although  it 
remained  the  smallest  of  the  Khmer  resistance  groups  until  1985, 
its  quest  for  stature  was  abetted  by  its  having  neither  the  opprobrious 
human  rights  record  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  to  live  down,  nor  the 
debilitating  leadership  disputes  of  the  KPNLF  with  which  to 
contend. 

Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 

The  establishment  of  the  tripartite  Coalition  Government  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea  (CGDK — see  Appendix  B)  in  June  1982 
was  a  significant  achievement  for  the  resistance  groups,  which  had 
quarreled  bitterly  throughout  the  negotiations  that  led  to  unity. 
Following  its  founding,  the  CGDK  became  the  center  of  the  anti- 
Vietnamese  cause,  served  as  the  country's  lawful  spokesman  in  in- 
ternational forums,  and  demonstrated  a  credible  capacity  for  bring- 
ing the  Cambodian  conflict  to  a  political  and  military  stalemate. 
In  the  late  1980s,  this  stalemate  renewed  multilateral  interest  in 
a  settlement  of  the  Cambodian  question. 

Origins  of  the  Coalition 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  1978  Vietnamese  invasion,  many  Cam- 
bodians clamored  for  national  unity,  but  only  a  few  responded  to 
the  Khmer  Rouge's  appeal  for  unity  under  the  PDFGNUK  (see 


195 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Major  Political  Developments,  1977-81,  this  ch.).  Their  reluctance 
to  rally  behind  the  Khmer  Rouge  was  understandable  because  they 
envisioned  a  new  Cambodia  that  was  neither  ruled  by  the  Khmer 
Rouge  nor  controlled  by  the  Vietnamese.  Many  Cambodians  be- 
lieved that  an  essential  condition  of  any  movement  aimed  at  restor- 
ing national  freedom  should  be  opposition  to  the  Khmer  Rouge 
and  the  Vietnamese.  Sihanouk  and  Son  Sann  were  both  uneasy 
about  reconciliation  with  the  Khmer  Rouge.  Still,  Cambodian 
solidarity  against  Hanoi  would  be  fragile  at  best  without  the  par- 
ticipation of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  the  strongest  of  all  the  resistance 
groups. 

Then  in  January  1979,  Sihanouk,  charged  by  the  Democratic 
Kampuchea  leadership  with  presenting  Cambodia's  case  before  the 
United  Nations,  broke  with  his  sponsors  and  demanded  that  the 
Khmer  Rouge  be  expelled  from  the  United  Nations  for  their  mass 
murders.  And  in  early  1980,  he  deplored  ASEAN 's  continued 
recognition  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  criticized  China's  military 
aid  to  the  Khmer  Rouge,  and  accused  Thai  authorities  of  closing 
their  eyes  to  Chinese  arm  shipments  through  Thailand  to  Khmer 
Rouge  rebels.  In  June  1980,  Sihanouk,  frustrated,  announced  his 
permanent  retirement  from  all  political  activities. 

Meanwhile,  Son  Sann,  who  had  been  indirectly  in  touch  with 
Pol  Pot  since  November  1979,  announced  in  January  1980  that 
he  would  form  an  anti- Vietnamese  united  front  with  the  Khmer 
Rouge  if  the  group's  leaders  agreed  to  step  down  and  to  relinquish 
their  power  to  his  new  organization.  He  also  raised  the  possibility 
of  forming  his  own  provisional  government  to  rival  the  Khmer 
Rouge.  Cooperation  with  Sihanouk  seemed  unlikely. 

Khieu  Samphan,  president  of  the  State  Presidium  of  the  defunct 
regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  proposed  that  Son  Sann  join 
forces  with  the  Khmer  Rouge  on  a  common  political  platform.  In 
1979  and  in  1980,  the  Khmer  Rouge  reportedly  came  under  pres- 
sure from  China  to  forge  a  united  front  under  Sihanouk  or  Son 
Sann.  The  ASEAN  countries  also  urged  the  Khmer  Rouge  to  put 
its  blood-stained  image  behind  it  and  to  mend  its  political  fences 
with  the  noncommunist  resistance  groups.  The  United  Nations 
informed  the  Khmer  Rouge  that  a  new  mode  of  behavior  would 
be  necessary  if  its  deposed  regime  were  to  retain  its  seat  in  the 
organization. 

The  united  front  idea  got  off  to  a  slow  start  in  1981.  In  Febru- 
ary Sihanouk,  reversing  his  retirement  from  politics,  indicated  his 
willingness  to  lead  the  front  if  China  and  the  Khmer  Rouge  sup- 
ported his  preconditions  of  Chinese  military  and  financial  assistance 
to  all  Cambodian  resistance  factions,  not  just  the  Khmer  Rouge, 


196 


(Top)  Prince  Norodom  Sihanouk, 
President  of  the  Coalition 
Government  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea,  addresses  a 
session  of  the  General 
Assembly  of  the 
United  Nations. 
Courtesy 
United  Nations  Photo 


(Bottom)  Prince  Norodom 
Ranariddh  reviews  combatants  of 
the  Armee  Nationale 
Sihanoukiste  on  Thai- 
Cambodian  border. 
Courtesy  Frank  Tatu 


197 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

and  of  the  disarming  of  all  resistance  groups  after  the  Vietnamese 
disengagement  from  Cambodia.  The  disarming  was  essential,  he 
asserted,  to  prevent  the  Khmer  Rouge  from  inaugurating  a  new 
round  of  terror  and  a  new  civil  war.  As  a  safeguard,  Sihanouk  also 
wanted  an  international  peace-keeping  force  after  the  Vietnamese 
departure,  an  internationally  guaranteed  neutralization  of  Cam- 
bodia, and  a  trusteeship  under  which  the  country  would  be  a  ward 
of  the  United  Nations  for  five  to  ten  years.  Furthermore,  he  re- 
quested that  the  country's  official  name  be  Cambodia  instead  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea.  The  name  change  was  a  bid  to  under- 
mine the  legal  status  of  the  Pol  Pot  regime  as  de  jure  representa- 
tive of  Democratic  Kampuchea  because  the  latter  designation  had 
been  that  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  exclusively. 

Son  Sann  was  indifferent  to  Sihanouk's  willingness  to  lead  the 
front.  Khieu  Samphan,  on  the  other  hand,  was  conciliatory  and 
stated  that  the  KCP  would  be  disbanded  if  necessary.  He  ac- 
knowledged at  the  same  time  that  Democratic  Kampuchea  had 
blundered  by  trying  to  develop  the  country  "much  too  fast,"  adding 
that  this  haste  had  "affected  the  health  of  people"  and  had  cost 
the  lives  of  nearly  1  million  Cambodians.  He  also  blamed  Viet- 
nam's "special  warfare  of  genocide"  for  the  deaths  of  "2.5  mil- 
lion" Cambodians.  In  addition,  he  claimed  that  a  new  Cambodia 
would  not  be  socialist,  would  honor  private  property,  and  would 
cooperate  on  a  "large-scale"  with  the  West.  He  even  said  that 
Democratic  Kampuchea  was  ready  to  join  ASEAN  as  a  member 
"at  any  time." 

Sihanouk  and  Khieu  Samphan  held  their  first  exploratory  unity 
talks  in  Pyongyang  on  March  10  and  11,  1981 ,  without  Son  Sann, 
who  claimed  that  neither  of  the  two  spoke  for  the  Cambodian  peo- 
ple. The  talks  foundered  because  Khieu  Samphan  objected  to 
Sihanouk's  demand  that  all  resistance  factions  be  disarmed  in  the 
future. 

Sihanouk  sought  to  enlist  the  cooperation  of  Son  Sann,  espe- 
cially in  securing  arms  from  China  and  from  the  United  States. 
Sihanouk  realized,  however,  that  China  would  not  back  his 
2,000-strong  force  unless  he  collaborated  with  the  Khmer  Rouge 
on  its  terms.  Then  in  April,  Sihanouk  said  he  was  willing  to  drop 
his  demand  for  the  disarmament  of  Khmer  Rouge  forces  in  ex- 
change for  Chinese  aid  to  the  ANS. 

Son  Sann  reacted  cautiously  to  the  Sihanouk-Khieu  Samphan 
talks,  distrusting  collaboration  with  the  Khmer  Rouge  at  least  until 
after  the  KPNLF's  military  strength  matched  that  of  the  communist 
faction.  However,  he  left  open  the  possibility  of  future  coopera- 
tion, citing  a  KPNLF-Khmer  Rouge  cease-fire  accord  in  early  1980. 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


Son  Sann  also  disclosed  that  he  had  ignored  Sihanouk's  four 
attempts  at  tactical  cooperation  since  1979. 

By  August  1981,  unity  talks  seemed  to  have  collapsed  because 
of  unacceptable  preconditions  advanced  by  the  KPNLF  and  by  the 
Khmer  Rouge.  Son  Sann  was  adamant  that  Khmer  Rouge  lead- 
ers "most  compromised"  by  their  atrocities  be  exiled  to  China  and 
that  the  proposed  united  front  be  led  by  the  KPNLF.  Meanwhile, 
Khieu  Samphan  urged  his  rivals  not  to  undermine  the  autonomy 
of  the  Khmer  Rouge  or  to  undo  the  legal  status  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea. 

The  three  leaders  broke  their  deadlock,  with  encouragement  from 
ASEAN,  and  held  their  first  summit  in  Singapore  from  Septem- 
ber 2  to  4.  They  reached  a  four-point  accord  that  included  the  cre- 
ation of  "a  coalition  government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea' ' ;  the 
establishment  of  an  ad  hoc  committee  to  draw  up  a  blueprint  for 
the  coalition  government;  an  expression  of  support  for  the  resolu- 
tion of  the  first  International  Conference  on  Kampuchea  (held  in 
New  York,  July  13  to  July  17,  1981)  as  well  as  for  other  relevant 
UN  General  Assembly  resolutions  on  Cambodia;  and  an  appeal 
for  international  support  of  their  common  cause.  They  also  decided 
not  to  air  their  internal  differences  publicly  "during  the  whole 
period  of  the  agreement"  and  not  to  attack  one  another  on  the 
battlefield.  Most  observers  regarded  the  agreement  as  a  break- 
through that  would  enable  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime  to  hold  onto 
its  seat  in  the  United  Nations  and  that  would  enhance  the  prospect 
of  increased  access  to  foreign  military  assistance  for  the  KPNLF 
and  FUNCINPEC. 

At  a  joint  press  conference  on  September  4,  all  sides  sought  to 
paper  over  their  differences.  Son  Sann  muted  his  demand  for  the 
removal  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  leadership,  and  Khieu  Samphan  por- 
trayed Democratic  Kampuchea  in  a  new,  moderate  light,  main- 
taining that  it  would  respect  individual  rights  and  private  ownership 
of  property.  Sihanouk  noted  that  the  three  resistance  groups  would 
maintain  their  separate  military  units,  but  under  a  joint  general 
staff  and  a  military  council  that  soon  would  be  established. 

But  in  a  separate  press  interview  the  following  day,  Sihanouk 
provided  a  glimpse  of  those  differences  that  persisted  among  the 
resistance  leaders.  He  revealed  his  reluctance  to  join  what  he  called 
"war-mongering"  leaders,  possibly  alluding  to  Khieu  Samphan 
or  to  Son  Sann.  Sihanouk  held  out  little  hope  for  a  military  solu- 
tion to  the  unrest  in  Cambodia  and  emphasized  that  China,  the 
Soviet  Union,  and  the  United  States  would  have  to  lend  assistance 
if  the  crisis  were  to  be  solved  peacefully.  Sihanouk  also  struck  a 
prophetic  note,  saying  that  Cambodians  must  not  only  reach  "an 


199 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

honorable  compromise"  with  the  Vietnamese,  but  they  should  also 
work  out  a  comprehensive  reconciliation  among  themselves  and 
should  include  the  Vietnamese-installed  puppet  regime  in  Phnom 
Penh. 

Between  September  13  and  November  14,  1981 ,  the  ad  hoc  com- 
mittee established  under  the  accord  met  nine  times  in  Bangkok  and 
agreed  on  principles  of  equal  power  sharing  among  the  three  fac- 
tions, on  decision  making  by  consensus,  and  on  use  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea's  legal  framework  as  the  basis  for  the  proposed  coali- 
tion government.  To  no  one's  surprise,  these  principles  were  sub- 
ject to  conflicting  self-serving  interpretations.  Sihanouk  and  Son 
Sann  feared  that  the  Khmer  Rouge  group  would  somehow  exploit 
the  coalition  scheme  at  their  expense.  Their  fear  was  well-founded 
in  that  Khieu  Samphan  wanted  the  coalition  government  to  be  an 
integral  part  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  In  an  apparent  effort  to 
offset  the  perceived  Khmer  Rouge  advantage,  Son  Sann  resurrected 
his  demand  that  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  be  excluded  from  the  coa- 
lition government  and  that  the  KPNLF  be  guaranteed  control  of 
a  majority  of  key  ministerial  posts.  The  Khmer  Rouge  called  Son 
Sann's  demands  "unreasonable."  By  mid-November,  Son  Sann 
had  announced  his  dissociation  from  the  coalition  scheme. 

On  November  22  and  23,  Singapore  intervened,  with  backing 
from  Thailand  and  the  other  ASEAN  countries,  and  proposed  the 
formation  of  "a  loose  coalition  government"  in  which  Democratic 
Kampuchea  would  become  one  of  three  equal  partners  of  the  alli- 
ance, not  the  all-important  constitutional  anchor  for  the  tripartite 
government.  Sihanouk  praised  the  Singapore  formula  as  "a  much 
better  deal"  for  the  noncommunist  groups.  The  Khmer  Rouge  re- 
jected the  formula,  asserted  that  the  loose  coalition  arrangement 
would  not  have  any  legal  status  as  "the  Democratic  Kampuchean 
Government,"  and,  on  December  7,  criticized  Sihanouk  and  Son 
Sann  for  attempting  to  "isolate  and  weaken"  the  Khmer  Rouge, 
which  was  the  only  force  both  fighting  and  stalemating  the  Viet- 
namese. 

In  February  1982,  Sihanouk  and  Khieu  Samphan  met  in  Bei- 
jing without  Son  Sann  to  clarify  several  ambiguities.  One  notable 
result  of  the  meeting  was  a  shift  in  the  Khmer  Rouge  insistence 
on  constitutional  linkage  between  Democratic  Kampuchea  and  the 
proposed  coalition  government.  In  what  was  described  as  "another 
concession,"  Khieu  Samphan  elaborated  the  position  that  his  side 
would  not  attempt  to  integrate  the  other  resistance  groups  into  "the 
Democratic  Kampuchean  institutions."  He  emphasized,  however, 
that  the  others  must  accept  and  defend  the  "legal  status"  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea  as  a  UN  member  state.  Sihanouk  asked 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


Son  Sann  to  resolve  his  differences  with  Khieu  Samphan  and  to 
join  the  coalition.  By  May,  Son  Sann  had  softened  his  anti-Khmer 
Rouge  posture  and  had  expressed  readiness  to  cooperate  with  the 
others  under  a  Thai-proposed  plan  that  would  have  Sihanouk  as 
head  of  state,  Son  Sann  as  prime  minister,  and  Khieu  Samphan 
as  deputy  prime  minister.  In  talks  with  Khieu  Samphan  in  mid- 
June,  Son  Sann  agreed  on  the  principle  of  tripartite  rule. 

Coalition  Structure 

The  three  leaders  finally  signed  an  agreement  on  the  long-sought 
coalition  on  June  22,  1982,  in  Kuala  Lumpur.  Sihanouk  pledged 
to  be  "a  loyal  partner"  and  to  respect  the  accord;  Son  Sann  praised 
the  CGDK  as  "an  authentic  and  legal  government";  and  Khieu 
Samphan  voiced  hope  that  the  CGDK  would  last  a  long  time,  even 
after  the  eventual  Vietnamese  departure.  The  three  signed  the  coa- 
lition agreement  without  identifying  their  organizations  because 
Son  Sann  had  refused  to  recognize  Sihanouk's  FUNCINPEC. 

The  June  agreement  failed  to  mitigate  substantially  suspicion  of 
the  Khmer  Rouge.  Sihanouk  and  Son  Sann,  for  instance,  refused 
to  allow  CGDK  headquarters  to  be  located  on  Khmer  Rouge- 
controlled  territory.  Within  only  a  few  days  of  the  signing,  Siha- 
nouk proposed — at  the  urging  of  Singapore  and  Malaysia — that  the 
two  noncommunist  groups  merge  in  an  effort  to  improve  their  stand- 
ing vis-a-vis  the  Khmer  Rouge.  But  Son  Sann,  wanting  to  main- 
tain a  separate  identity,  rejected  the  idea.  In  addition,  Sihanouk 
had  planned  to  announce,  in  Bangkok  on  July  12,  that  the  agree- 
ment had  been  signed,  but  the  Voice  of  Democratic  Kampuchea — 
the  Khmer  Rouge's  clandestine  radio  station,  aired  the  text  of  the 
accord  on  July  11  and  upstaged  Sihanouk.  Animosity  between 
Sihanouk  and  Khieu  Samphan  grew  because  of  the  incident. 

The  purpose  of  the  CGDK,  as  stated  in  the  June  accord,  was 
"to  mobilize  all  efforts  in  the  common  struggle  to  liberate  Kam- 
puchea from  the  Vietnamese  aggressors"  and  "to  bring  about  the 
implementation  of  the  declaration  of  the  International  Conference 
on  Kampuchea  and  other  relevant  UN  General  Assembly  resolu- 
tions." After  the  Vietnamese  withdrawal,  the  Cambodians  were 
to  determine  their  own  future  through  a  general,  free,  and  secret 
election  under  UN  supervision. 

The  CGDK  was  to  function  within  the  "legitimacy  and  frame- 
work of  the  State  of  Democratic  Kampuchea, ' '  and  its  three  part- 
ners were  to  share  power  equally  and  to  make  decisions  by 
consensus.  Each  partner  would  have  a  certain  degree  of  freedom 
and  would  maintain  organizational  and  political  autonomy.  The 
autonomy  would  be  needed  should  the  CGDK  prove  unworkable, 


201 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


COUNCIL  OF  MINISTERS 
(INNER  CABINET) 


PRESIDENT  PRINCE  NORODOM  SIHANOUK 

(FUNCINPEC) 


VICE  PRESIDENT  IN  CHARGE  KHIEU  SAMPHAN  (DK/PDK)  2 

OF  FORIEGN  AFFAIRS 


PRIME  MINISTER  SON  SANN  (KPNLF)  3 


I 


COORDINATING  COMMITTEES 

ECONOMY 
AND  FINANCE 

NATIONAL 
DEFENSE 

CULTURE 

AND 
EDUCATION 

PUBLIC 
HEALTH  AND 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS 

MILITARY 
AFFAIRS 

PRESS  AND 
INFORMATION 
AFFAIRS 

PARTNERS  IN  THE  CGDK  4 

1 

1 

DK/PDK 

KPNLF 

FUNCINPEC 

PRIME  MINISTER: 
KHIEU  SAMPHAN 

DEPUTY  PRIME  MINISTER 
(FOREIGN  AFFAIRS): 
IENG  SARY 

DEPUTY  PRIME  MINISTER 
(DEFENSE): 
SON  SEN 

PRESIDENT: 
SON  SANN 

VICE  PRESIDENTS 

SECRETARY  GENERAL 

EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE 

PRESIDENT: 
PRINCE  NORODOM 
SIHANOUK 

SECRETARY  GENERAL 

REPRESENTATIVE  OF 
THE  PRINCE  IN 
CAMBODIA 
AND  ASIA- 

NORODOM  RANARIDDH 

French  acronym  for  the  National  United  Front  for  an 
Independent,  Neutral,  Peaceful,  and  Cooperative  Cambodia 

Democratic  Kampuchea/Party  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 

Khmer  National  Liberation  Front 

Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  Directorate  of  Intelligence, 
Who's  Who  in  Cambodia:  A  Reference  Aid,  CR  85-10626,  March  1985  (Chart,  no  pagi- 
nation). 


Figure  10.  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  1987 

in  which  case  the  right  to  represent  Cambodia  would  revert  to  the 
Khmer  Rouge  "in  order  to  ensure  the  continuity  of  the  state  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea"  as  a  member  of  the  United  Nations. 

The  coalition's  top  governing  body  was  the  "inner  cabinet,"  for- 
mally called  the  Council  of  Ministers  (see  fig.  10).  The  three-member 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


inner  cabinet  consisted  of  Sihanouk  as  president  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea,  Khieu  Samphan  as  vice  president  in  charge  of  for- 
eign affairs,  and  Son  Sann  as  prime  minister.  The  cabinet  was  to 
meet  regularly  inside  Cambodia — to  demonstrate  the  viability  of 
the  CGDK — for  the  purposes  of  discussing  domestic  and  foreign 
policy  matters  and  of  resolving  differences  within  the  coalition. 
Below  the  inner  cabinet  were  six  coordinating  committees,  each 
with  one  representative  from  each  of  the  coalition's  three  factions. 
The  six  committees,  or  ministries,  were  in  charge  of  economy  and 
finance;  national  defense;  culture  and  education;  public  health  and 
social  affairs;  military  affairs,  and  press  and  information  affairs. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  CGDK  claimed  to  have  held  an  inner  cabi- 
net session  inside  Cambodia  at  least  once  a  year  since  its  forma- 
tion. According  to  unconfirmed  reports,  much  of  the  time  in  these 
sessions  was  devoted  to  charges  made  by  Sihanouk  that  Khmer 
Rouge  soldiers  had  attacked  his  troops.  The  Khmer  Rouge  denied 
the  charges,  blaming  '  'Vietnamese  agents"  for  such  incidents  if, 
indeed,  they  had  occurred  at  all. 

In  1987  Sihanouk  engaged  in  considerable  maneuvering  as  he 
sought  to  restore  some  momentum  to  the  search  for  a  negotiated 
solution  to  the  situation  in  Cambodia.  Adopting  the  tactic  of  tem- 
porary abdication  of  responsibility  that  he  had  employed  before 
in  his  long  political  career,  he  began  a  one-year  leave  of  absence 
from  his  duties  as  president  of  the  CGDK  in  May  1987.  Sihanouk 
cited  several  reasons  for  his  decision.  The  first  was  his  displeasure 
with  continued  Khmer  Rouge  attacks  on  his  troops  and  the  human 
rights  violations  by  the  Khmer  Rouge  and  by  the  KPNLF  against 
displaced  persons  in  refugee  camps  controlled  by  these  groups  (see 
Migration  and  Refugees,  ch.  2).  The  second  reason  was  the  al- 
leged "duplicity"  of  unnamed  foreign  governments,  which,  Siha- 
nouk said,  were  exploiting  Cambodia  as  a  pawn  in  their  power 
struggle.  He  also  claimed  that  an  unidentified  foreign  sponsor — 
probably  an  allusion  to  China — was  deliberately  holding  back  "the 
rebirth  of  Sihanoukism"  for  the  benefit  of  the  Khmer  Rouge. 
Finally,  Sihanouk  added  that  he  was  leaving  to  explore  the  prospect 
of  reconciliation  with  leaders  of  Hanoi  and  Phnom  Penh.  Siha- 
nouk's temporary  dissociation  from  the  CGDK,  some  observers 
believed,  would  free  him  from  the  burden  of  consulting  with  Son 
Sann  and  Khieu  Samphan. 

Democratic  Kampuchea 

In  1987  the  United  Nations  continued  to  recognize  Democratic 
Kampuchea  as  the  legal  representative  of  Cambodia  in  the  General 
Assembly,  in  spite  of  objections  by  the  People's  Republic  of 


203 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Kampuchea  (PRK),  the  Vietnamese-installed  regime  in  Phnom 
Penh;  thus,  under  international  law,  Democratic  Kampuchea  con- 
tinued to  exist  as  an  entity  with  full  sovereignty  even  though  it  did 
not  possess  all  four  of  the  conventional  criteria  of  statehood:  peo- 
ple, territory,  government,  and  supreme  authority  within  the  bord- 
ers of  a  given  country.  Under  the  1982  tripartite  agreement,  the 
CGDK  had  replaced  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime  as  de  jure  represen- 
tative of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Nevertheless,  the  Khmer  Rouge 
continued  to  identify  itself  as  Democratic  Kampuchea  even  after 
the  accord  was  signed.  As  a  result,  the  terms  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea and  the  Khmer  Rouge  became  virtually  synonymous  and 
in  fact  were  used  interchangeably  (see  fig.  10). 

In  late  1987  Democratic  Kampuchea  was  being  governed  under 
the  political  program  of  the  PDFGNUK  that  had  been  adopted 
formally  in  December  1979  as  "the  provisional  fundamental 
law  ...  at  the  current  stage  of  our  people's  war  against  the  Viet- 
namese aggressors"  (see  Major  Political  Developments,  1977-81, 
this  ch.).  It  guaranteed  "democratic  freedoms"  in  political,  reli- 
gious, and  economic  life;  a  parliamentary  system  based  on  a  popu- 
larly elected  national  assembly  under  UN  supervision;  a  national 
army;  and  a  national  economy  respecting  "individual  or  family 
productive  activity."  The  program  reflected  the  Khmer  Rouge's 
attempt  to  create  a  new  image  attuned  to  moderation,  national- 
ism, and  patriotism. 

The  KCP,  synonymous  with  the  Khmer  Rouge,  was  the  largest 
and  strongest  component  of  the  CGDK  in  1987.  In  December  1981 , 
however,  the  party  had  announced  its  dissolution,  citing  the  in- 
compatibility of  communism  with  Democratic  Kampuchea's  anti- 
Vietnamese  united  front  line.  It  is  difficult  to  ascertain  whether 
the  KCP  was  indeed  disbanded  because  the  Khmer  Rouge  always 
were  secretive.  The  change  of  name  to  the  Party  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea  (PDK — see  Appendix  B)  probably  was  a  cosmetic 
gesture  aimed  at  regaining  international  respectability  following 
the  party's  imposition  of  a  brutal  regime  on  Cambodia  from  1975 
to  1978.  The  party's  essential  continuity  was  probable  because  the 
PDK  leadership  remained  identical  to  that  of  its  predecessor,  the 
KCP,  and  the  most  important  party  leader — Pol  Pot — exercised 
a  shadowy,  but  powerful,  influence  behind  the  scenes  in  1987  just 
as  he  had  in  the  1970s.  Fragmentary  accounts  that  reached  the  out- 
side world  hinted  that,  despite  the  name  change,  the  party  con- 
tinued to  treat  refugees  and  peasants  under  its  control  with  a 
arshness  and  an  arbitrariness  that  showed  little  more  concern  for 
human  rights  than  that  of  the  former  communist  government  of 
Cambodia. 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


In  the  name  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  the  Khmer  Rouge  issued 
a  comprehensive  conciliatory  policy  statement  on  July  6,  1985.  It 
noted  that  the  "Democratic  Kampuchea  side"  expressed  readiness 
to  hold  peace  talks  with  Vietnam — but  only  after  Vietnam's  com- 
plete withdrawal  from  Cambodia — and  indicated  willingness  to  wel- 
come "other  Cambodians,  including  Heng  Samrin  and  his  group" 
as  long  as  they  no  longer  served  the  Vietnamese.  Referring  to  the 
future  of  Cambodia,  the  Khmer  Rouge  side  hinted  for  the  first  time 
that  it  might  accept  exclusion  from  a  postwar  government  that  might 
include  the  Heng  Samrin  regime.  The  Khmer  Rouge  also  expressed 
greater  openness  to  the  establishment  of  a  new  Cambodia  with  a 
parliamentary  and  liberal  capitalist  system. 

The  Khmer  Rouge's  principal  leaders,  from  July  1985,  were 
Khieu  Samphan,  Ieng  Sary,  and  Son  Sen,  in  addition  to  Pol  Pot 
who  operated  behind  the  scenes.  Khieu  Samphan  was  concurrently 
chairman  of  the  State  Presidium,  prime  minister  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea,  provisional  chairman  of  the  PDFGNUK,  and  vice 
president  in  charge  of  foreign  affairs  of  the  CGDK.  Son  Sen  served 
as  commander  in  chief  of  the  National  Army  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea  (NADK)  and,  in  that  capacity,  as  the  Khmer  Rouge 
chairman  on  the  Coordinating  Committee  for  National  Defense. 
Ieng  Sary  served  as  Democratic  Kampuchea's  deputy  prime 
minister  in  charge  of  foreign  affairs  and  as  its  chairman  on  the  Coor- 
dinating Committee  for  Economy  and  Finance.  Other  key  figures 
included  Ieng  Thirith  (also  known  as  Khieu  Thirith,  reportedly 
related  to  Khieu  Samphan),  wife  of  Ieng  Sary  and  head  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea's  Red  Cross  Society;  Ta  Mok  (also  known 
as  Chhet  Choeun),  vice  chairman  and  chief  of  the  general  staff  of 
the  NADK  and  reportedly  Pol  Pot's  right-hand  man;  and  Nuon 
Chea  (also  known  as  Long  Reth) — a  political  hardliner  loyal  to  Pol 
Pot — chairman  of  the  Standing  Committee  of  the  People's  Repre- 
sentative Assembly  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Pol  Pot,  formerly 
prime  minister,  the  KCP's  general  secretary,  and  commander  in 
chief  of  the  NADK,  headed  the  Higher  Institute  for  National 
Defense  from  September  1985  onward.  Although  reportedly  in  fail- 
ing health  and  in  Beijing-induced  retirement  in  China  in  1987,  Pol 
Pot  was  still  the  power  behind  the  scenes,  according  to  some  ob- 
servers. 

Ieng  Sary's  status  in  1987  was  unclear  because  he  had  not  been 
seen  in  public  since  August  1985.  For  years  Ieng  Sary  and  Pol  Pot 
were  named  by  their  adversaries  as  the  two  figures  most  responsi- 
ble for  mass  murders  in  Cambodia,  and  Hanoi  and  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime  insisted  on  their  exclusion  from  any  future  politi- 
cal accommodation  with  the  CGDK. 


205 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Front 

From  its  inception  in  October  1979,  the  right-wing,  pro-Western, 
former  prime  minister  Son  Sann,  noted  for  his  integrity  and  for 
his  unyielding  personality,  led  the  Khmer  People's  National  Liber- 
ation Front  (KPNLF — see  Appendix  B).  The  organization  was  the 
strongest  of  the  country's  noncommunist  resistance  forces.  Its  key 
figures  were  formerly  prominent  in  the  administrations  of  Siha- 
nouk and  of  republican  leader  Lon  Nol.  A  number  of  displaced 
Cambodians  sheltered  in  temporary  camps  on  Thai  soil  near  the 
Thai-Cambodian  border  backed  the  KPNLF,  which  had  originated 
in  the  anti-Khmer  Rouge  movement  of  the  1960s.  It  controlled 
about  160,000  civilians  confined  at  "Site  2,"  a  camp  in  Thailand 
barely  a  kilometer  from  the  Cambodian  border.  Most  of  the  peo- 
ple in  the  camp  were  toughened  survivors  of  the  Pol  Pot  era,  and 
they  were  therefore  a  potential  pool  from  which  to  recruit  armed 
rebels  for  the  KPNLF. 

In  the  1984  to  1985  Vietnamese  dry-season  offensive,  the  KPNLF 
reportedly  lost  nearly  a  third  of  its  12,000  to  15,000  troops  in  bat- 
tle and  through  desertions  (see  Khmer  People's  National  Libera- 
tion Armed  Forces,  ch.  5).  This  setback,  which  was  blamed  on  Son 
Sann  for  his  alleged  meddling  in  military  matters,  aggravated  the 
long-standing  personality  conflicts  within  the  KPNLF.  Some 
KPNLF  members  criticized  Son  Sann's  alleged  tendency  toward 
being  dictatorial  and  unbending,  and  they  questioned  his  lukewarm 
attitude  toward  the  idea  of  a  unified  military  command  that  in- 
cluded Sihanouk's  ANS.  Criticism  mounted  after  reports  that  some 
of  the  organization's  field  commanders  were  involved  in  the  black 
market  and  in  other  forms  of  corruption.  Charges  of  human  rights 
violations  in  the  KPNLF-run  camps  for  displaced  persons  further 
fueled  internal  dissension. 

In  December  1985,  a  dissident  faction,  wanting  to  limit  Son 
Sann's  role  to  ceremonial  duties,  announced  the  formation  of  a 
Provisional  Central  Committee  of  Salvation,  which  would  be  the 
new  executive  body  of  the  KPNLF.  The  new  group  asserted  that 
it  had  seized  power  from  Son  Sann  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the 
internal  problems  of  the  KPNLF.  Key  members  of  the  group  in- 
cluded two  KPNLF  vice  presidents:  General  Sak  Sutsakhan,  for- 
merly Lon  Nol's  chief  of  staff;  and  General  Dien  Del,  commander 
in  chief  and  chief  of  staff  of  the  KPNLF  armed  forces.  Other  nota- 
bles were  Abdul  Gaffar  Peangmeth  and  Hing  Kunthon,  two  ex- 
ecutive committee  members  whom  Son  Sann  had  dismissed  earlier, 
and  Huy  Kanthoul,  a  former  prime  minister. 

Son  Sann  countered  with  the  formation  of  a  new  military  com- 
mand committee  under  General  Prum  Vith.  He  said,  however, 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


that  General  Sak  would  remain  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  Joint 
Military  Command  (that  now  included  the  ANS),  which  was 
launched  in  January  1986,  reportedly  as  a  concession  to  the  dissi- 
dent group.  Under  a  compromise  worked  out  through  a  third  party, 
General  Sak  regained  his  control  of  the  armed  forces  in  March  1986. 
Son  Sann,  then  seventy-four  years  old,  withdrew  a  previous  threat 
to  resign  as  CGDK  prime  minister.  By  early  1987,  unity  in  the 
KPNLF  had  been  restored,  and  Son  Sann  retained  his  presidency, 
while  General  Sak  remained  in  full  control  of  the  military. 

In  a  major  reshuffle  of  the  military  high  command  in  March, 
General  Sak  placed  his  deputy,  Dien  Del,  in  charge  of  anticorrup- 
tion  measures.  The  need  for  sweeping  internal  reform  already  had 
become  a  pressing  issue  in  January  1987,  when  morale  was  so  low 
that  several  hundred  KPNLF  soldiers  defected  to  Sihanouk's  ANS. 

National  United  Front  for  an  Independent,  Peaceful,  Neutral, 
and  Cooperative  Cambodia 

Sihanouk's  political  organization,  the  National  United  Front  for 
an  Independent,  Peaceful,  Neutral,  and  Cooperative  Cambodia 
(Front  Uni  National  pour  un  Cambodge  Independant  Neutre,  Paci- 
fique,  et  Cooperatif — FUNCINPEC — see  Appendix  B),  emerged 
in  1987  as  an  increasingly  popular  resistance  group,  that  drew  sup- 
port from  a  broad  range  of  Cambodians.  FUNCINPEC 's  in- 
dispensable asset  was  Sihanouk  himself.  He  maintained  residences 
in  Pyongyang,  in  Mougins  (located  in  southern  France),  and  in 
Beijing.  His  son,  Prince  Norodom  Ranariddh,  was  Sihanouk's  sole 
authorized  spokesman  and  was  the  head  of  FUNCINPEC 's  office 
in  Bangkok.  Among  his  confidants  were  Nhek  Tioulong,  a  former 
cabinet  minister  under  Sihanouk;  Buor  Hel,  a  cousin  of  Sihanouk's; 
and  Chak  Saroeun,  FUNCINPEC  secretary  general.  As  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  organization's  Executive  Committee  and  commander 
in  chief  of  the  ANS,  former  prime  minister  In  Tarn  was  also  a  key 
FUNCINPEC  loyalist,  but  he  resigned  in  March  1985  as  the  result 
of  a  feud  with  Prince  Ranariddh. 

FUNCINPEC  had  its  share  of  internal  problems.  After  In  Tarn's 
departure,  Ranariddh,  to  the  dismay  of  In  Tarn's  supporters,  be- 
came the  ANS's  temporary  commander  in  chief.  In  January  1986, 
Sihanouk  reshuffled  the  ANS  high  command,  formally  appoint- 
ing his  son  commander  in  chief  and,  in  addition,  ANS  chief  of  staff. 
Sihanouk  also  dismissed  General  Teap  Ben,  who  had  been  chief 
of  staff  since  1981,  for  alleged  embezzlement  of  refugee  funds  and 
for  disloyalty;  Teap  Ben  was  relegated  to  the  nominal  post  of  deputy 
commander  in  chief  of  the  Joint  Military  Command.  In  May  1986, 
Sihanouk,  citing  Ranariddh's  heavy  workload,  was  reported  to  be 


207 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

considering  the  appointment  of  General  Toal  Chay  as  the  new  ANS 
chief  of  staff.  At  the  end  of  1987,  however,  Sihanouk's  son  con- 
tinued to  hold  the  two  key  military  posts. 

The  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea 

The  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  (PRK — see  Appendix  B) 
has  ''its  ultimate  origin,"  according  to  Cambodia  expert  Michael 
Vickery,  "in  the  same  revolutionary  victory  of  17  April  1975  as 
does  the  rival  Pol  Pot  [Democratic  Kampuchea]  group."  The 
PRK's  patron  since  1979  has  been  Vietnam,  and  in  late  1987,  many 
observers  believed  that  the  survival  of  the  Phnom  Penh  regime  de- 
pended on  Vietnam's  continued  occupation  of  the  country. 

The  PRK  was  established  in  January  1979  in  line  with  the  broad 
revolutionary  program  set  forth  by  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer) 
National  United  Front  for  National  Salvation  (KNUFNS— see  Ap- 
pendix B),  which  was  formed  on  December  2,  1978,  in  a  zone  liber- 
ated from  the  Khmer  Rouge.  Of  the  front's  fourteen  central 
committee  members,  the  top  two  leaders — Heng  Samrin,  presi- 
dent, and  Chea  Sim,  vice  president — were  identified  as  "former" 
KCP  officials.  Ros  Samay,  secretary  general  of  the  KNUFNS,  was 
a  former  KCP  "staff  assistant"  in  a  military  unit.  The  govern- 
ment of  Democratic  Kampuchea  denounced  the  KNUFNS,  as  "a 
Vietnamese  political  organization  with  a  Khmer  name,"  because 
several  of  its  key  members  had  been  affiliated  with  the  KCP. 

The  initial  objectives  of  the  KNUFNS  were  to  rally  the  people 
under  its  banner,  to  topple  the  Pol  Pot  regime,  to  adopt  a  new  con- 
stitution for  a  "democratic  state  advancing  toward  socialism,"  to 
build  mass  organizations,  and  to  develop  a  revolutionary  army. 
Its  foreign  policy  objectives  included  pursuing  nonalignment, 
settling  disputes  with  neighbors  through  negotiations,  putting  an 
end  to  "the  border  war  with  Vietnam"  provoked  by  the  Pol  Pot 
regime,  and  opposing  foreign  military  bases  on  Cambodian  soil. 
On  December  26,  1978,  the  day  after  the  Vietnamese  invasion, 
the  KNUFNS  reiterated  its  opposition  to  foreign  military  bases. 

On  January  1,  1979,  the  front's  central  committee  proclaimed 
a  set  of  "immediate  policies"  to  be  applied  in  the  '  'liberated  areas. ' ' 
One  of  these  policies  was  to  establish  "people's  self-management 
committees"  in  all  localities.  These  committees  would  form  the  basic 
administrative  structure  for  the  Kampuchean  People's  Revolution- 
ary Council  (KPRC),  decreed  on  January  8,  1979,  as  the  central 
administrative  body  for  the  PRK.  The  KPRC  served  as  the  rul- 
ing body  of  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  until  June  27,  1981,  when 
a  new  Constitution  required  that  it  be  replaced  by  a  newly  elected 
Council  of  Ministers.  Pen  Sovan  became  the  new  prime  minister. 


208 


Government  and  Politics 


He  was  assisted  by  three  deputy  prime  ministers — Hun  Sen,  Chan 
Si,  and  Chea  Soth. 

The  Constitution 

The  Constitution  of  the  PRK,  promulgated  on  June  27,  1981, 
defines  Cambodia  as  "a  democratic  state  .  .  .  gradually  advanc- 
ing toward  socialism. "  The  transition  to  socialism  was  to  take  place 
under  the  leadership  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 
Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B),  a  Marxist-Leninist 
party  founded  in  June  1951  (see  The  Emergence  of  Nationalism, 
ch.  1).  The  Constitution  explicitly  defines  the  country's  position 
in  international  relations.  It  places  Cambodia  within  the  Soviet 
Union's  orbit.  The  country's  primary  enemies,  according  to  the 
Constitution,  are  "the  Chinese  expansionists  and  hegemonists  in 
Beijing,  acting  in  collusion  with  United  States  imperialism  and  other 
powers." 

The  Constitution  guarantees  a  broad  range  of  civil  liberties  and 
fundamental  rights.  Citizens  are  to  be  equal  before  the  law  and 
are  entitled  to  enjoy  the  same  rights  and  duties  regardless  of  sex, 
religion,  or  race.  They  have  the  right  to  participate  in  the  politi- 
cal, economic,  social,  and  cultural  life  of  the  country  and  to  be  paid 
according  to  the  amount  and  quality  of  work  they  perform.  Men 
and  women  are  entitled  to  equal  pay  for  equal  work.  All 
individuals — including  monks  and  soldiers — over  the  age  of  eigh- 
teen may  vote,  and  citizens  over  twenty-one  may  run  for  election. 
The  Constitution  also  guarantees  the  inviolability  of  people  and 
of  their  homes;  privacy  of  correspondence;  freedom  from  illegal 
search  and  arrest;  the  right  to  claim  reparation  for  damages  caused 
by  illegal  actions  of  the  state,  social  organizations,  and  their  per- 
sonnel; and  freedom  of  speech,  of  the  press,  and  of  assembly.  The 
exercise  of  fundamental  rights,  however,  is  subject  to  certain  re- 
strictions. For  example,  an  act  may  not  injure  the  honor  of  other 
persons,  nor  should  it  adversely  affect  the  mores  and  customs  of 
society,  or  public  order,  or  national  security.  In  line  with  the  prin- 
ciple of  socialist  collectivism,  citizens  are  obligated  to  carry  out  "the 
state's  political  line  and  defend  collective  property." 

The  Constitution  also  addresses  principles  governing  culture, 
education,  social  welfare,  and  public  health.  Development  of  lan- 
guage, literature,  the  arts,  and  science  and  technology  is  stressed, 
along  with  the  need  for  cultural  preservation,  tourist  promotion, 
and  cultural  cooperation  with  foreign  countries. 

Provisions  for  state  organs  are  in  the  constitutional  chapters  deal- 
ing with  the  National  Assembly,  the  Council  of  State,  the  Council 
of  Ministers,  the  local  people's  revolutionary  committees,  and  the 


209 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

judiciary.  Fundamental  to  the  operation  of  all  public  bodies  is  the 
principle  that  the  KPRP  serves  as  the  most  important  political  in- 
stitution of  the  state.  Intermediary  linkages  between  the  state 
bureaucracy  and  grass-roots  activities  are  provided  by  numerous 
organizations  affiliated  with  the  KUFNCD  (see  The  Kampuchean 
(or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National  Construction  and  Defense, 
this  ch.). 

Government  Structure 

An  administrative  infrastructure,  functioning  under  the  KPRC, 
was  more  or  less  in  place  between  1979  and  1980.  With  the  promul- 
gation of  the  Constitution  in  June  1981,  new  organs,  such  as  the 
National  Assembly,  the  Council  of  State,  and  the  Council  of 
Ministers,  assumed  KPRC  functions  (see  fig.  11).  These  new  bodies 
evolved  slowly.  It  was  not  until  February  1982  that  the  National 
Assembly  enacted  specific  laws  for  these  bodies. 

The  National  Assembly 

The  "supreme  organ  of  state  power"  is  the  National  Assem- 
bly, whose  deputies  are  directly  elected  for  five-year  terms.  The 
assembly's  117  seats  were  filled  on  May  1,  1981,  the  date  of  the 
PRK's  first  elections.  (The  KNUFNS  had  nominated  148  candi- 
dates.) The  voter  turnout  was  reported  as  99. 1 7  percent  of  the  elec- 
torate, which  was  divided  into  20  electoral  districts. 

During  its  first  session,  held  from  June  24  to  June  27,  the  as- 
sembly adopted  the  new  Constitution  and  elected  members  of  the 
state  organs  set  up  under  the  Constitution.  The  assembly  had  been 
empowered  to  adopt  or  to  amend  the  Constitution  and  the  laws 
and  to  oversee  their  implementation;  to  determine  domestic  and 
foreign  policies;  to  adopt  economic  and  cultural  programs  and  the 
state  budget;  and  to  elect  or  to  remove  its  own  officers  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  State  and  of  the  Council  of  Ministers.  The 
assembly  also  was  authorized  to  levy,  revise,  or  abolish  taxes;  to 
decide  on  amnesties;  and  to  ratify  or  to  abrogate  international 
treaties.  As  in  other  socialist  states,  the  assembly's  real  function 
is  to  endorse  the  legislative  and  administrative  measures  initiated 
by  the  Council  of  State  and  by  the  Council  of  Ministers,  both  of 
which  serve  as  agents  of  the  ruling  KPRP. 

The  National  Assembly  meets  twice  a  year  and  may  hold  addi- 
tional sessions  if  needed.  During  the  periods  between  its  sessions, 
legislative  functions  are  handled  by  the  Council  of  State.  Bills  are 
introduced  by  the  Council  of  State,  the  Council  of  Ministers,  the 
assembly's  several  commissions  (legislative  committees),  chairman 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  KUFNCD,  and  heads  of  other  organizations.  Individual 
deputies  are  not  entitled  to  introduce  bills. 

Once  bills,  state  plans  and  budgets,  and  other  measures  are  in- 
troduced, they  are  studied  first  by  the  assembly's  commissions, 
which  deal  with  legislation,  economic  planning,  budgetary  mat- 
ters, and  cultural  and  social  affairs.  Then  they  go  to  the  assembly 
for  adoption.  Ordinary  bills  are  passed  by  a  simple  majority  (by 
a  show  of  hands).  Constitutional  amendments  require  a  two-thirds 
majority.  The  Council  of  State  must  promulgate  an  adopted  bill 
within  thirty  days  of  its  passage.  Another  function  of  the  assembly 
is  to  oversee  the  affairs  of  the  Council  of  Ministers,  which  func- 
tions as  the  cabinet.  Assembly  members  may  make  inquiries  of  cabi- 
net officials,  but  they  are  not  entided  to  call  for  votes  of  confidence 
in  the  cabinet.  Conversely,  the  Council  of  Ministers  is  not  em- 
powered to  dissolve  the  National  Assembly. 

The  Constitution  states  that  in  case  of  war  or  under  "other  ex- 
ceptional circumstances,"  the  five-year  life  of  the  Assembly  may 
be  extended  by  decree.  In  1986  the  assembly's  term  was  extended 
for  another  five  years,  until  1991. 

The  Council  of  State 

The  National  Assembly  elects  seven  of  its  members  to  the  Council 
of  State.  After  the  assembly's  five-year  term,  council  members  re- 
main in  office  until  a  new  assembly  elects  a  new  council.  The  chair- 
man of  the  council  serves  as  the  head  of  state,  but  the  power  to 
serve  as  ex  officio  supreme  commander  of  the  armed  forces  was 
deleted  from  the  final  draft  of  the  Constitution. 

The  council's  seven  members  are  among  the  most  influential 
leaders  of  the  PRK.  Between  sessions  of  the  National  Assembly, 
the  Council  of  State  carries  out  the  assembly's  duties.  It  may  ap- 
point or  remove — on  the  recommendation  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers — cabinet  ministers,  ambassadors,  and  envoys  accredit- 
ed to  foreign  governments.  In  addition,  the  Council  of  State  or- 
ganizes elections  to  the  National  Assembly,  convenes  regular  and 
special  sessions  of  the  assembly,  promulgates  and  interprets  the 
Constitution  and  the  laws,  reviews  judicial  decisions,  rules  on 
pardons  and  on  commutations  of  sentences,  and  ratifies  or  abrogates 
treaties.  Foreign  diplomatic  envoys  present  their  letters  of  accredi- 
tation to  the  Council  of  State. 

The  Council  of  Ministers 

The  government's  top  executive  organ  is  the  Council  of 
Ministers,  or  cabinet,  which  in  late  1987  was  headed  by  Hun  Sen 
(as  it  had  been  since  January  1985).  Apart  from  the  prime  minister 


211 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


CONSTITUTION  OF  1981 
NATIONAL  ASSEMBLY 


COUNCIL  OF 
MINISTERS 


PEOPLE'S 
SUPREME  COURT 

PUBLIC 
PROSECUTOR 

I  

PEOPLE'S 
REVOLUTIONARY 
COURTS 

MINISTRIES 

AGRICULTURE 

INDUSTRY 

COMMUNICATIONS, 

INFORMATION 

TRANSPORT,  POSTS 

AND  CULTURE 

EDUCATION 

INTERIOR 

FINANCE 

JUSTICE 

FOREIGN  AFFAIRS 

NATIONAL  DEFENSE 

HEALTH 

PLANNING 

HOME  AND 

SOCIAL  AFFAIRS 

FOREIGN  TRADE 

AND  INVALIDS 

PROVINCIAL/MUNICIPAL 
REVOLUTIONARY  COMMITTEES 


DISTRICTS/CITY  WARDS 
REVOLUTIONARY  COMMITTEES 


Figure  11.  Government  of  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea,  1987 


(formally  called  chairman),  the  Council  of  Ministers  has  two  deputy 
prime  ministers  (vice  chairmen)  and  twenty  ministers.  The  National 
Assembly  elects  the  council's  ministers  for  five-year  terms.  They 
are  responsible  collectively  to  the  assembly.  When  the  assembly  is 
not  in  session,  they  are  responsible  to  the  Council  of  State.  The  prime 
minister  must  be  a  member  of  the  assembly;  other  council  mem- 
bers, however,  need  not  be.  The  council's  five-year  term  continues 
without  hiatus  until  a  new  cabinet  is  formed  after  general  elections. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  meets  weekly  in  an  executive  session, 
which  is  attended  by  the  prime  minister,  the  deputy  prime  ministers, 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


and  a  chief  of  staff  who  is  called  the  Minister  in  Charge  of  the  Office 
of  the  Council  of  Ministers.  The  executive  group  prepares  an 
agenda  for  deliberation  and  adoption  by  the  council's  monthly  ple- 
nary session.  (A  secretary  general  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  pro- 
vides administrative  support  for  the  cabinet.)  The  executive  group 
also  addresses  measures  for  implementing  the  plenary  session's  deci- 
sions, and  it  reviews  and  coordinates  the  work  of  government  agen- 
cies at  all  levels.  Decisions  made  in  the  executive  sessions  are 
'  'collective,"  whereas  those  in  the  plenary  sessions  are  by  a  major- 
ity. Representatives  of  KUFNCD  and  other  mass  organizations, 
to  which  all  citizens  may  belong,  may  be  invited  to  attend  plenary 
sessions  of  the  council  "when  [it  is]  discussing  important  issues." 
These  representatives  may  express  their  views  but  they  are  not 
allowed  to  vote. 

Government  ministries  are  in  charge  of  agriculture;  communi- 
cations, transport,  and  posts;  education;  finance;  foreign  affairs; 
health;  home  and  foreign  trade;  industry;  information  and  culture; 
interior;  justice;  national  defense;  planning;  and  social  affairs  and 
invalids.  In  addition,  the  cabinet  includes  a  minister  for  agricul- 
tural affairs  and  rubber  plantations,  who  is  attached  to  the  Office 
of  the  Council  of  Ministers;  a  minister  in  charge  of  the  Office  of 
the  Council  of  Ministers;  a  secretary  general  of  the  Office  of  the 
Council  of  Ministers,  who  is  also  in  charge  of  transport  and  of 
Khmer- Thai  border  defense  networks;  a  director  of  the  State  Affairs 
Inspectorate;  and  the  president-director  general  of  the  People's 
National  Bank  of  Kampuchea. 

The  Office  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  serves  as  the  administra- 
tive nerve  center  of  the  government.  Directed  by  its  cabinet-rank 
minister,  this  office  is  supposed  "to  prepare,  facilitate,  coordinate, 
unify,  and  guide  all  activities  of  individual  ministries  and  locali- 
ties." Fiscal  inspection  of  public  institutions  is  the  responsibility 
of  the  State  Affairs  Inspectorate,  which  has  branch  offices  in  all 
provinces. 

The  Judiciary 

The  restoration  of  law  and  order  has  been  one  of  the  more  press- 
ing tasks  of  the  Heng  Samrin  regime.  Since  1979  the  administra- 
tion of  justice  has  been  in  the  hands  of  people's  revolutionary  courts 
that  were  set  up  hastily  in  Phnom  Penh  and  in  other  major  provin- 
cial cities.  A  new  law  dealing  with  the  organization  of  courts  and 
with  the  Office  of  Public  Prosecutor  was  promulgated  in  February 
1982.  Under  this  law,  the  People's  Supreme  Court  became  the 
highest  court  of  the  land. 


213 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

The  judicial  system  comprises  the  people's  revolutionary  courts, 
the  military  tribunals,  and  the  public  prosecutors'  offices.  The 
Council  of  State  may  establish  additional  courts  to  deal  with  spe- 
cial cases.  The  Council  of  Ministers,  on  the  recommendations  of 
local  administrative  bodies  called  people's  revolutionary  commit- 
tees, appoints  judges  and  public  prosecutors.  Two  or  three  peo- 
ple's councillors  (the  equivalents  of  jurors  or  of  assessors)  assist  the 
judges,  and  they  have  the  same  power  as  the  judges  in  passing  sen- 
tence (see  Protection  Under  the  Law,  ch.  5). 

Local  People's  Revolutionary  Committees 

In  late  1987,  the  country  was  divided  into  eighteen  provinces 
(khet)  and  two  special  municipalities  (krong),  Phnom  Penh  and  Kam- 
pong  Saom,  which  are  under  direct  central  government  control. 
The  provinces  were  subdivided  into  about  122  districts  (srok),  1,325 
communes  (khum),  and  9,386  villages  (phum).  The  subdivisions  of 
the  municipalities  were  wards  (sangkat). 

An  elective  body,  consisting  of  a  chairman  (president),  one  or 
more  vice  chairmen,  and  a  number  of  committee  members,  runs 
each  people's  revolutionary  committee.  These  elective  bodies  are 
chosen  by  representatives  of  the  next  lower  level  people's  revolu- 
tionary committees  at  the  provincial  and  district  levels.  At  the 
provincial  and  district  levels,  where  the  term  of  office  is  five  years, 
committee  members  need  the  additional  endorsement  of  officials 
representing  the  KUFNCD  and  other  affiliated  mass  organizations. 
At  the  commune  and  ward  level,  the  members  of  the  people's 
revolutionary  committees  are  elected  directly  by  local  inhabitants 
for  a  three-year  term. 

Before  the  first  local  elections,  which  were  held  in  February  and 
March  1981,  the  central  government  appointed  local  committee 
officials.  In  late  1987,  it  was  unclear  whether  the  chairpersons  of 
the  local  revolutionary  committees  reported  to  the  Office  of  the 
Council  of  Ministers  or  to  the  Ministry  of  Interior. 

The  Media 

The  state  controls  printed  and  electronic  communications  media 
and  regulates  their  content.  The  most  authoritative  print  medium 
in  1987  was  the  ruling  KPRP's  biweekly  journal,  Pracheachon  (The 
People),  which  was  inaugurated  in  October  1985  to  express  the 
party's  stand  on  domestic  and  international  affairs.  Almost  as  im- 
portant, however,  was  the  weekly  of  the  KUFNCD,  Kampuchea. 
The  principal  publication  of  the  armed  forces  was  the  weekly  Kangtap 
Padevat  (Revolutionary  Army).  As  of  late  1987,  Cambodia  still  had 
no  daily  newspaper. 


214 


Government  and  Politics 


Radio  and  television  were  under  the  direction  of  the  Kampuchean 
Radio  and  Television  Commission,  created  in  1983.  In  1986  there 
were  about  200,000  radio  receivers  in  the  country.  The  Voice  of 
the  Kampuchean  People  (VOKP)  radio  programs  were  broadcast 
in  Khmer,  Vietnamese,  French,  English,  Lao,  and  Thai.  With  Viet- 
namese assistance,  television  broadcasting  was  instituted  on  a  trial 
basis  in  December  1983  and  then  regularly  at  the  end  of  1984.  As 
of  March  1986,  Television  Kampuchea  (TVK)  operated  two  hours 
an  evening,  four  days  a  week  in  the  Phnom  Penh  area  only.  There 
were  an  estimated  52,000  television  sets  as  of  early  1986.  In 
December  1986,  Vietnam  agreed  to  train  Cambodian  television 
technicians.  The  following  month,  the  Soviet  Union  agreed  to 
cooperate  with  Phnom  Penh  in  the  development  of  electronic  media. 
Cambodian  viewers  began  to  receive  Soviet  television  programs 
after  March  1987,  through  a  satellite  ground  station  that  the  Soviet 
Union  had  built  in  Phnom  Penh  (see  Telecommunications,  ch.  3). 

Beginning  in  1979,  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  encouraged  peo- 
ple to  read  official  journals  and  to  listen  to  the  radio  every  day. 
Widespread  illiteracy  and  a  scarcity  of  both  print  media  and  radio 
receivers,  however,  meant  that  few  Cambodians  could  follow  the 
government's  suggestion.  But  even  when  these  media  were  avail- 
able, "cadres  and  combatants"  in  the  armed  forces,  for  example, 
were  more  interested  in  listening  to  music  programs  than  in  read- 
ing about  "the  situation  and  developments  in  the  country  and  the 
world  or  articles  on  good  models  of  good  people." 

The  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary 
Party 

In  late  1987,  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolution- 
ary Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B)  continued  to  be  the  ruling 
Marxist-Leninist  party  of  the  PRK  (see  fig.  12).  It  is  an  offshoot 
of  the  Indochinese  Communist  Party  (ICP — see  Appendix  B), 
which  played  a  dominant  role  in  Cambodian  resistance  against  the 
French  and  the  Japanese  (see  The  French  Colonial  Period,  ch.  1). 
Some  leaders  of  the  anticolonial  Cambodian  resistance,  or  Khmer 
Issarak  (see  Appendix  B),  had  been  members  of  the  ICP,  and  they 
had  helped  found  the  KPRP  in  1951 .  The  party  was  formed  after 
the  decision  by  the  ICP's  Second  Party  Congress  in  February  1951 
to  dissolve  itself  and  to  establish  three  independent  parties  for  Viet- 
nam, Cambodia,  and  Laos.  On  September  30,  1960,  the  KPRP 
party  was  renamed  the  Workers'  Party  of  Kampuchea  (WPK — 
see  Appendix  B).  Pol  Pot  emerged  as  the  key  figure.  In  1966,  shortly 
after  Pol  Pot  returned  from  talks  with  Chinese  leaders  in  Beijing, 
the  party's  name  was  changed  to  the  KCP. 


215 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


<  CO 

z< 


is 

o 

O 


o 

II 

85 


ccco 

<  LU 
ZLU 

II 

a 


co 

COO 

IS 

LUZ 
X< 

Occ 
o 


cvj  m  *t  to 
=)?<< 

*  ^  *  * 


z 

-  O 

KUFNCD 
MASS 
ORGANIZATI 

NATIONAl 
COUNCIL 

El 

-I  <N  CD 
<Q2 

t<2 

0.3 


r?UJ 
=:LU 

II 

<o 
oQ 

IS 


I —  LU  S 
S  _l  LU 

2<2 

O  ■"-  LU 

.job 
cc<9 

l-_iQ 
ZjZ 

LUZ)< 

OllO 
m 


< 

h- 

DC 

LU 

< 

Z 

LU 

CO 

EC 

< 

O 

o 

LU 

CO 

□  z 

Z  I- 

Z  <  Q  LU 
<Q_Z)C0 

OOoO 

CD  DC  LU  DC 
OO-  Cu 


X 

OCO 

<o 

LU- 


£zz 

KZ^LiJ^ 

000^2 
Olull  =  lu 


EES 

CO 

_lh 

LU 
I 

<H 

o 

9:2 

z 

02 
ZO 

'  BRA 

DO 

2> 

h- 
cc 

i! 

< 

Q. 

is 

1- 

>< 

o 

DC 

CO 

H 

LU 

CO 
Q 

X 

.2  c  ~ 
re     3  ™ 

z 


S-5 


>-  GO  3 
O  C  o 

_  °  >  ^  S 
c  c  >,  y>  w 
o  ^  «  <=  < 

>-       «  m  _ 

mil 

c  _  °  >.  > 

°  as  Si  re 
C  c  EC  c  c 

|j  «  C  -  ^ 
v  t  d  o  o 
■o  o  >  > 

Jr  a;  03  03  03 
SlL  CL  CC  CC 

c  c  c  c  c 

re  re  re  re  re 

03   03   03   03  03 

£  x:  £  £  j= 

u  o  u  u  o 

3   3   3   3  3 

o.  o.  o.  a.  a. 
E  E  E  E  E 
re  re  re  re  re 
i£  ^ 
i-  cm  co  ■•a-  un 


15 


s  ^ 


tj  o 

C  03 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


The  communist  party  in  Cambodia  has  a  history  of  bitter  fac- 
tional feuds.  After  the  Second  Party  Congress  in  1960  and  the  dis- 
appearance of  party  General  Secretary  Tou  Samouth  in  1 962 ,  the 
party  split  into  pro-Soviet  and  pro-Chinese  factions.  The  dominant 
faction,  led  by  Pol  Pot,  adopted  a  position  that  was  pro-Chinese 
and  anti-Soviet.  In  January  1979,  the  split  became  irreversible  as 
the  pro-Vietnamese/pro-Soviet  faction  under  Pen  Sovan  replaced 
the  Pol  Pot  faction  as  the  de  facto  ruler  in  Phnom  Penh.  The  rival 
factions  even  disagreed  on  the  founding  date  of  the  communist  party 
in  Cambodia:  the  Pol  Pot  faction,  under  Khieu  Samphan,  in  late 
1987,  claimed  September  30,  1960;  however,  the  other  group,  the 
mainstream  KPRP  under  Heng  Samrin,  continued  to  honor  1951 
as  the  founding  year. 

The  Heng  Samrin  faction  held  the  Third  Party  Congress  of  what 
would  later  become  the  KPRP  between  January  5  and  8,  1979. 
Heng  Samrin 's  faction  claimed  that  it  alone  was  the  legitimate 
descendant  of  the  communist  party  founded  in  1951.  Very  little 
is  known  about  the  Third  Party  Congress  (also  known  as  the  Con- 
gress for  Party  Reconstruction)  except  that  Pen  Sovan  was  elected 
first  secretary  of  the  Central  Committee  and  that  the  party  then 
had  between  sixty-two  and  sixty-six  regular  members. 

Some  key  figures  in  the  Pen  Sovan  leadership  were  former  col- 
laborators with  Pol  Pot,  but  this  information,  and  the  communist 
ideological  convictions  of  the  new  leadership  were  not  publicized 
because  the  leadership  feared  backlash  from  people  who  had  been 
brutalized  by  the  Pol  Pot  regime.  Such  concern  was  implicit  in  Pen 
Sovan 's  political  report  to  the  Fourth  Party  Congress  held  from 
May  26  to  May  29,  1981 .  In  the  report,  he  was  careful  to  distance 
the  KPRP  from  Pol  Pot's  KCP,  and  he  denounced  the  KCP  as 
a  traitor  to  the  party  and  to  the  nation. 

The  KPRP  decided  at  the  Fourth  Party  Congress  to  operate 
' 'openly."  This  move  seemed  to  reflect  the  leadership's  growing 
confidence  in  its  ability  to  stay  in  power.  The  move  may  have  had 
a  practical  dimension  as  well  because  it  involved  the  people  more 
actively  in  the  regime's  effort  to  build  the  country's  political  and 
administrative  infrastructure. 

The  Fourth  Party  Congress  reviewed  Pen  Sovan 's  political  report 
and  defined  the  party's  strategy  for  the  next  several  years.  The  Con- 
gress adopted  five  * '  basic  principles  of  the  party  line,"  which  were 
to  uphold  the  banners  of  patriotism  and  of  international  proletarian 
solidarity;  to  defend  the  country  (the  primary  and  sacred  task  of 
all  people);  to  restore  and  to  develop  the  economy  and  the  culture 
in  the  course  of  gradual  transition  toward  socialism;  to  strengthen 
military  solidarity  with  Vietnam,  Laos,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  other 


217 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

socialist  nations;  and  to  develop  "a  firm  Marxist-Leninist  party." 
At  the  Congress  it  was  decided  that  henceforth  the  party  would 
be  known  as  the  KPRP,  in  order  to  distinguish  it  from  "the  reac- 
tionary Pol  Pot  party  and  to  underline  and  reassert  the  communi- 
ty of  the  party's  best  traditions."  The  Fourth  Party  Congress  also 
proclaimed  its  resolve  to  stamp  out  the  "reactionary  ultra-nationalist 
doctrine  of  Pol  Pot,"  to  emphasize  a  centralized  government  and 
collective  leadership,  and  to  reject  personality  cults.  The  "ultra- 
nationalist  doctrine"  issue  was  an  allusion  to  Pol  Pot's  racist,  anti- 
Vietnamese  stance.  The  Congress,  attended  by  162  delegates, 
elected  twenty-one  members  of  the  party  Central  Committee,  who 
in  turn  elected  Pen  Sovan  as  general  secretary  and  the  seven  mem- 
bers of  the  party  inner  circle  to  the  Political  Bureau.  It  also  adopted 
a  new  statute  for  the  party,  but  did  not  release  the  text. 

According  to  Michael  Vickery,  veterans  of  the  independence 
struggle  of  the  1946  to  1954  period  dominated  the  party  Central 
Committee.  A  majority  of  the  Central  Committee  members  had 
spent  all  or  part  of  the  years  1954  to  1970  in  exile  in  Vietnam  or 
in  the  performance  of  "duties  abroad." 

The  KPRP's  pro- Vietnamese  position  did  not  change  when  Heng 
Samrin  suddenly  replaced  Pen  Sovan  as  party  leader  on  Decem- 
ber 4,  1981 .  Pen  Sovan,  who  was  reportedly  flown  to  Hanoi  under 
Vietnamese  guard,  was  "permitted  to  take  a  long  rest,"  but  ob- 
servers believed  that  he  was  purged  for  not  being  sufficiently  pro- 
Vietnamese.  In  any  case,  the  new  general  secretary  won  Hanoi's 
endorsement  by  acknowledging  Vietnam's  role  as  senior  partner 
in  the  Cambodian- Vietnamese  relationship.  The  party  recognized 
the  change  in  leadership  symbolically  by  changing  the  official  found- 
ing date  of  the  KPRP  from  February  19,  1951,  to  June  28,  1951, 
in  deference  to  the  Vietnam  Workers'  Party  (Dang  Lao  Dong  Viet 
Nam),  which  was  established  in  March  1951. 

In  mid- 1981,  the  KPRP  was  essentially  a  skeletal  organization. 
It  had  few  party  branches  except  for  those  in  Phnom  Penh,  in  Kam- 
pong  Saom,  and  in  the  eighteen  provincial  capitals.  Party  mem- 
bership was  estimated  at  between  600  and  1,000,  a  considerable 
increase  over  1979  but  still  only  a  fraction  of  the  number  of  cadres 
needed  to  run  the  party  and  the  government.  In  1981  several  of 
the  18  provinces  had  only  1  party  member  each,  and  Kampong 
Cham,  the  largest  province  with  a  population  of  more  than  1  mil- 
lion, had  only  30  regular  members,  according  to  Cambodia 
specialist  Ben  Kiernan. 

The  party  held  its  Fifth  Party  Congress  from  October  13  to  Oc- 
tober 16,  1985,  to  reflect  on  the  previous  five  years  and  to  chart 
a  new  course  for  the  next  several  years.  The  party's  membership 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


had  increased  to  7,500  regulars  (4,000  new  members  joined  in  1985 
alone).  The  party  had  an  additional  pool  of  37,000  "core"  mem- 
bers from  which  it  could  recruit  tested  party  regulars.  There  were 
only  4,000  core  members  in  mid- 1981 .  According  to  General  Secre- 
tary Heng  Samrin's  political  report,  the  KPRP  had  twenty- two 
regional  committees  and  an  undisclosed  number  of  branches,  cir- 
cles, and  cells  in  government  agencies,  armed  forces  units,  inter- 
nal security  organs,  mass  organizations,  enterprises,  factories,  and 
farms.  The  report  expressed  satisfaction  with  party  reconstruction 
since  1981,  especially  with  the  removal  of  the  "danger  of  authoritari- 
anism" and  the  restoration  of  the  principles  of  democratic  centralism 
and  of  collective  leadership.  It  pointed  out  "some  weaknesses"  that 
had  to  be  overcome,  however.  For  example,  the  party  was  "still 
too  thin  and  weak"  at  the  district  and  the  grass-roots  levels.  Ideo- 
logical work  lagged  and  lacked  depth  and  consistency;  party  poli- 
cies were  implemented  very  slowly,  if  at  all,  with  few,  if  any,  timely 
steps  to  rectify  failings;  and  party  cadres,  because  of  their  propen- 
sities for  narrow-mindedness,  arrogance,  and  bureaucratism,  were 
unable  to  win  popular  trust  and  support.  Another  major  problem 
was  the  serious  shortage  of  political  cadres,  economic  and  manage- 
rial cadres,  and  technical  cadres.  Still  another  problem  that  had 
to  be  addressed  "in  the  years  to  come' '  was  the  lack  of  a  documented 
history  of  the  KPRP.  Heng  Samrin's  political  report  stressed  the 
importance  of  party  history  for  understanding  "the  good  traditions 
of  the  party." 

The  report  to  the  Fifth  Congress  noted  that  Heng  Samrin's  ad- 
ministration, in  coordination  with  "Vietnamese  volunteers,"  had 
destroyed  "all  types"  of  resistance  guerrilla  bases.  The  report  also 
struck  a  sobering  note:  the  economy  remained  backward  and  un- 
balanced, with  its  material  and  technical  bases  still  below  pre-war 
levels,  and  the  country's  industries  were  languishing  from  lack  of 
fuel,  spare  parts,  and  raw  materials.  Transition  toward  socialism, 
the  report  warned,  would  take  "dozens  of  years." 

To  hasten  the  transition  to  socialism,  the  Fifth  Congress  unveiled 
the  PRK's  First  Plan,  covering  the  years  1986  to  1990  (see  Eco- 
nomic Role  of  the  KPRP,  ch.  3).  The  program  included  the  addi- 
tion of  the  "private  economy"  to  the  three  sectors  of  the  economy 
mentioned  in  the  Constitution  (the  state  sector,  collective  sector, 
and  the  family  sector).  Including  the  private  economy  was  neces- 
sary because  of  the  "very  heavy  and  very  complex  task"  that  lay 
ahead  in  order  to  transform  the  "nonsocialist  components"  of  the 
economy  to  an  advanced  stage.  According  to  the  political  report 
submitted  to  the  congress,  mass  mobilization  of  the  population  was 
considered  crucial  to  the  successful  outcome  of  the  First  Plan.  The 


219 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

report  also  noted  the  need  to  cultivate  "new  socialist  men"  if  Cam- 
bodia were  to  succeed  in  its  nation-building.  These  men  were  sup- 
posed to  be  loyal  to  the  fatherland  and  to  socialism;  to  respect 
manual  labor,  production,  public  property,  and  discipline;  and  to 
possess  "scientific  knowledge." 

Heng  Samrin's  political  report  also  focused  on  foreign  affairs. 
He  recommended  that  Phnom  Penh  strengthen  its  policy  of  alliance 
with  Vietnam,  Laos,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  other  socialist  coun- 
tries. He  stressed — as  Pen  Sovan  had  in  May  1981 — that  such  an 
alliance  was,  in  effect,  "a  law"  that  guaranteed  the  success  of  the 
Cambodian  revolution.  At  the  same  time,  he  urged  the  congress 
and  the  Cambodian  people  to  spurn  "narrow-minded  chauvinism, 
every  opportunistic  tendency,  and  every  act  and  attitude  infring- 
ing on  the  friendship"  between  Cambodia  and  its  Indochinese 
neighbors.  (He  was  apparently  alluding  to  the  continued  Cambo- 
dian sensitivity  to  the  presence  of  Vietnamese  troops  and  of  about 
60,000  Vietnamese  settlers  in  Cambodia.  CGDK  sources  main- 
tained that  there  were  really  about  700,000  Vietnamese  settlers  in 
the  country.)  The  KPRP's  three  objectives  for  the  period  1986  to 
1990  were  to  demonstrate  military  superiority  "along  the  border 
and  inside  the  country"  for  complete  elimination  of  all  anti-PRK 
activities;  to  develop  political,  military,  and  economic  capabilities; 
and  to  strengthen  special  relations  with  Vietnam  as  well  as  mutual 
cooperation  with  other  fraternal  countries.  Before  Heng  Samrin's 
closing  address  on  October  16,  the  250  party  delegates  to  the  con- 
gress elected  a  new  Central  Committee  of  45  members  (31  full  mem- 
bers and  14  alternates).  The  Central  Committee  in  turn  elected 
Heng  Samrin  as  general  secretary,  a  new  Political  Bureau  (nine 
full  members  and  two  alternates),  a  five-member  Secretariat,  and 
seven  members  of  the  Central  Committee  Control  Commission. 

After  the  Fifth  Congress,  the  party's  organizational  work  was 
intensified  substantially.  The  KPRP  claimed  that  by  the  end  of 
1986  it  had  more  than  10,000  regular  members  and  40,000  candi- 
date members  who  were  being  groomed  for  regular  status. 

The  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National 
Construction  and  Defense 

The  ruling  KPRP  grew  slowly  in  membership  over  the  years 
and  was  supported  by  a  mass  organization  from  which  it  drew  its 
applicants  and  support.  This  organization,  known  as  the  KNUFNS, 
had  been  formed  in  late  1978  with  Vietnamese  backing,  as  a  com- 
mon front  against  the  Pol  Pot  regime  in  Phnom  Penh.  The  organi- 
zation underwent  various  name  changes,  emerging  eventually  in 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


late  1981  as  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National 
Construction  and  Defense  (KUFNCD — see  Appendix  B).  In  the 
meantime,  its  role  in  the  political  life  of  the  nation  had  been  offi- 
cially established  in  the  Constitution,  which  states  in  Article  3  that 
"The  Kampuchean  Front  for  National  Construction  and  the  revolu- 
tionary mass  organizations  constitute  a  solid  support  base  of  the 
state,  encouraging  the  people  to  fulfill  their  revolutionary  tasks." 

The  KUFNCD' s  specific  missions  were  to  transmit  party  poli- 
cies to  the  masses,  to  act  as  an  ombudsman,  and  to  mobilize  the 
people  around  the  regime's  efforts  to  consolidate  the  so-called 
"worker-peasant  alliance."  The  front's  cadres  were  required  to 
stay  in  close  touch  with  the  people,  to  report  their  needs  and 
problems  to  authorities,  and  to  conduct  mass  campaigns  to  gener- 
ate support  for  the  regime,  or  to  lead  "emulation"  drives  to  spur 
the  population  to  greater  efforts  in  pursuit  of  specific  goals.  The 
cadres  were  also  responsible  for  organizing  networks  of  KUFNCD 
activists  in  villages  and  in  communes  and  for  coordinating  their 
functions  with  cadres  of  various  mass  organizations. 

The  KUFNCD  also  was  responsible  for  conducting  "activities 
of  friendship,"  which  were  aimed  at  improving  the  climate  for  close 
cooperation  with  "the  Vietnamese  people  and  the  Vietnamese  army 
and  experts."  Another  major  function  of  the  front  was  to  reedu- 
cate Buddhist  monks  so  that  they  would  "discard  the  narrow- 
minded  views  of  dividing  themselves  into  groups  and  factions"  and 
would  participate  more  actively  in  the  revolutionary  endeavors  of 
the  KUFNCD. 

Among  the  more  important  mass  organizations  affiliated  with 
the  KUFNCD  were  the  Kampuchean  Federation  of  Trade  Unions 
(KFTU— 62,000  members  in  December  1983),  officially  described 
as  "the  training  school  of  the  working  class  for  economic  and  ad- 
ministrative management";  and  the  Kampuchean  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Youth  Union  (KPRYU),  an  important  reservoir  of 
candidate  members  for  the  KPRP  and  "a  school  of  Marxism"  for 
people  between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and  twenty-six.  As  of  March 
1987,  when  the  Youth  Union  held  its  Second  National  Congress, 
there  were  more  than  50,000  members  in  villages,  factories,  en- 
terprises, hospitals,  schools,  public  offices,  and  the  armed  forces. 
Other  mass  organizations  included  the  Kampuchean  Revolution- 
ary Youth  Association  (KRYA),  an  800,000-member  group  for  chil- 
dren (aged  9  to  16);  the  Kampuchean  Young  Pioneers  Organization 
(KYPO),  a  450,000-member  group  for  pre-schoolers  under  the 
general  guidance  of  the  KPRYU  and  the  KRYA;  and  the 
Kampuchean  Revolutionary  Women's  Association  (KRWA), 
which  claimed  923,000  members  as  of  October  1983.  All  these 


221 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

organizations  held  rallies  to  arouse  public  awareness  on  national 
commemorative  occasions  such  as  the  Kampuchea-Vietnam 
Solidarity  Day  on  February  18,  the  Day  of  Hatred  ("against  the 
genocidal  Pol  Pot-Ieng  Sary-Khieu  Samphan  clique  and  the 
Sihanouk-Son  Sann  reactionary  groups")  observed  on  May  20, 
and  the  day  of  solidarity  between  the  people  and  the  army  on 
June  19. 

Foreign  Affairs 

In  1987  the  two  Cambodian  regimes  continued  to  compete  for 
respect  and  for  legitimacy,  and  they  both  continued  to  proclaim 
a  foreign  policy  based  on  peaceful  coexistence,  neutrality,  and 
nonalignment.  The  CGDK,  however,  had  the  major  share  of  inter- 
national recognition  as  de  jure  representative  of  Cambodia,  even 
though  it  did  not  possess  supreme  authority  within  the  borders  of 
Cambodia.  De  facto  control  of  national  territory  was  in  the  hands 
of  the  PRK,  but,  because  the  PRK  had  originated  during  the  Viet- 
namese invasion  and  occupation  of  Cambodia,  it  was  unable  to 
gain  legitimacy  in  the  eyes  of  the  United  Nations.  The  United 
Nations  would  not  validate  an  illegal  act  consummated  by  force 
of  arms  (see  Cambodia  in  Turmoil,  this  ch.).  Recognizing  the  PRK 
regime  would  be  contrary  to  the  UN  Charter,  which  calls  for  peace- 
ful settlement  of  all  conflicts  and  for  nonintervention  in  the  inter- 
nal affairs  of  sovereign  and  independent  nations.  In  July  1982,  the 
Phnom  Penh  regime,  recognizing  the  futility  of  challenging  the 
legality  of  the  CGDK,  announced  that  "in  the  immediate  future" 
it  would  not  seek  "to  reclaim  the  Kampuchean  seat  at  the  United 
Nations." 

The  Coalition's  Strategy 

The  CGDK  had  formal  diplomatic  relations  at  the  ambassadorial 
level  with  Bangladesh,  China,  Egypt,  Malaysia,  North  Korea, 
Pakistan,  Senegal,  Somalia,  Sudan,  and  Yugoslavia  (as  of  late 
1987).  Chinese  and  North  Korean  relations  with  the  coalition  occa- 
sionally were  in  the  limelight  in  the  1980s — Chinese  relations  be- 
cause of  China's  role  as  the  principal  donor  of  material  and  military 
assistance  to  the  CGDK,  and  North  Korean  relations  because 
Sihanouk  maintained  his  "private"  residence  in  Pyongyang  (a 
palace  built  for  him  by  the  president  of  North  Korea,  Kim  II  Sung, 
in  the  early  1970s).  Bangkok  also  was  mentioned  frequentiy  in  Cam- 
bodian foreign  affairs  because  it  had  hosted  meetings  of  CGDK 
leaders  with  Chinese  and  Thai  officials  regarding  events  in  Indochi- 
na. Bangkok  was  also  the  site  for  the  Office  of  Samdech  Norodom 
Sihanouk's  Personal  Representative  for  Cambodia  and  Asia,  which 


222 


Former  royal  palace,  Phnom  Penh 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


was  headed  by  Sihanouk's  son  Prince  Norodom  Ranariddh.  This 
office  was  Sihanouk's  informal  embassy. 

The  CGDK  had  a  permanent  mission — consisting  of  represen- 
tatives from  all  three  of  the  CGDK  partners — to  the  United  Na- 
tions in  New  York.  In  formal  debates  in  the  UN  General  Assembly, 
however,  the  chief  delegate  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  group  represented 
the  CGDK  because  the  coalition's  June  1982  agreement  said  that 
the  diplomatic  envoys  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  who  were  in  office 
at  that  time  would  remain  in  their  posts.  The  permanent  mission 
became  active  each  September  during  the  UN  General  Assembly's 
opening  session.  Mission  representatives  sought  to  obtain  reaffir- 
mation of  the  General  Assembly's  September  1979  resolution  calling 
for  an  unconditional  withdrawal  of  "foreign' '  (Vietnamese)  troops 
from  Cambodia  and  for  Cambodian  self-determination  free  of  ex- 
ternal constraints.  In  1979  ninety-one  nations  backed  the  resolu- 
tion, twenty-one  nations  opposed  it,  and  twenty-nine  abstained. 
In  1987,  although  117  nations  reaffirmed  the  same  resolution,  the 
number  of  countries  which  opposed  it  remained  essentially  un- 
changed. Some  countries,  such  as  the  United  States,  supported  reso- 
lutions but  did  not  recognize  Democratic  Kampuchea,  the  CGDK, 
or  the  PRK.  Britain  and  Australia  withdrew  recognition  of  Demo- 
cratic Kampuchea  in  December  1979,  and  in  October  1980,  respec- 
tively, but  both  supported  the  CGDK's  effort  to  get  the  Vietnamese 


223 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

troops  out  of  Cambodia  and  to  determine  its  future  freely  under 
UN  supervision. 

Phnom  Penh  and  Its  Allies 

Following  its  establishment,  the  primary  foreign  relationships 
of  the  PRK  were  those  with  Vietnam,  Laos,  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
the  countries  of  Eastern  Europe.  The  PRK  had  only  one  resident 
mission  in  a  noncommunist  state,  the  one  in  India.  The  PRK  also 
maintained  diplomatic  relations  with  about  twenty  other  Third 
World  nations,  including  Afghanistan,  Angola,  the  Congo,  Ethio- 
pia, Libya,  Madagascar,  Mozambique,  Nicaragua,  and  Panama. 
In  1980  about  thirty  countries  recognized  the  PRK;  seven  years 
later,  that  number  had  not  changed.  In  1987  nearly  eighty  coun- 
tries recognized  Democratic  Kampuchea. 

The  Search  for  Peace 

The  most  intractable  foreign  policy  question  facing  the  rival  Cam- 
bodian regimes  in  the  1980s  was  that  of  how  to  establish  an  in- 
dependent, neutral,  and  nonaligned  Cambodia  under  a  set  of  terms 
agreeable  to  all  those,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  who  were  inter- 
ested. Despite  differing  perceptions  of  potential  gains  and  losses, 
all  parties  to  the  Cambodian  dispute  were  striving  for  reconcilia- 
tion. This  was  a  positive  sign,  especially  because  in  1979  and  in 
1980,  no  one,  except  perhaps  Sihanouk,  believed  that  reconcilia- 
tion was  possible. 

In  the  first  two  years  of  the  Cambodian  crisis,  the  rival  Cambo- 
dian regimes  had  different  priorities.  The  Heng  Samrin  regime's 
overriding  concern  was  to  consolidate  its  political  and  its  territorial 
gains,  while  relying  on  the  Vietnamese  to  take  the  lead  in  foreign 
affairs  and  in  national  security.  The  political  price  of  this  external 
dependence  was  high  because  it  contributed  to  Phnom  Penh's  image 
as  a  Vietnamese  puppet.  Vietnam  also  paid  a  price  for  its  asser- 
tion that  it  had  intervened  only  "at  the  invitation"  of  Heng  Samrin 
"to  defend  the  gains  of  the  revolution  they  have  won  .  .  .  at  a  time 
when  the  Beijing  expansionists  are  colluding  with  the  United 
States."  Phnom  Penh  and  Hanoi  also  asserted  speciously  that 
political  turmoil  inside  Cambodia  constituted  a  civil  war  and  was, 
therefore,  of  no  concern  to  outsiders.  Vietnam's  attempts  to  shield 
the  Cambodian  crisis  from  external  scrutiny  led  its  noncommunist 
neighbors  to  suspect  that  Hanoi  was  finally  moving  to  fulfill  its 
historical  ambition  of  dominating  all  of  Indochina. 

Anti-Heng  Samrin  resistance  groups  pursued  an  opposite  course. 
Their  strategy  was  to  internationalize  the  Cambodian  question — 
with  political  support  from  China  and  from  the  ASEAN  nations — as 


224 


Government  and  Politics 


a  case  of  unprovoked  Vietnamese  aggression,  in  order  to  put  pres- 
sure on  Vietnam  and  to  undermine  the  legitimacy  of  the  Heng 
Samrin  administration.  At  the  same  time,  the  resistance  groups 
sought  to  destabilize  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  by  challenging  the 
Vietnamese  occupation  forces.  The  regime  in  Phnom  Penh,  with 
support  from  Vietnam  and  from  the  Soviet  Union,  nevertheless 
continued  to  consolidate  its  gains. 

In  1981  the  rival  camps  pressed  on  with  their  confrontational 
tactics.  The  anti- Vietnamese  resistance  factions,  despite  their  long- 
standing, internal  feuds,  began  to  negotiate  among  themselves  for 
unity  against  their  common  enemy.  On  the  diplomatic  front,  they 
worked  closely  with  ASEAN  to  convene  the  UN-sponsored  Inter- 
national Conference  on  Kampuchea,  which  took  place  from  July  13 
to  July  17,  1981,  in  New  York.  The  conference,  attended  by 
representatives  from  seventy-nine  countries  and  by  observers  from 
fifteen  countries,  adopted  a  declaration  of  principles  for  settling 
the  Cambodian  crisis.  The  central  elements  of  the  declaration  were 
those  contained  in  the  UN  General  Assembly  resolution  of  1979 
and  in  the  proposals  for  Cambodian  peace  announced  by  the 
ASEAN  countries  in  October  1980.  The  declaration  called  for  the 
withdrawal  of  all  foreign  forces  in  the  shortest  possible  time  under 
the  supervision  and  the  verification  of  a  UN  peacekeeping-observer 
group;  for  arrangements  to  ensure  that  armed  Cambodian  factions 
would  not  prevent  or  disrupt  free  elections;  for  measures  to  main- 
tain law  and  order  during  the  interim  before  free  elections  could 
be  held  and  a  new  government  established;  for  free  elections  under 
UN  auspices;  for  the  continuation  of  Cambodia's  status  as  a  neu- 
tral and  nonaligned  state;  and  for  a  declaration  by  the  future  elected 
government  that  Cambodia  would  not  pose  a  threat  to  other  coun- 
tries, especially  to  neighboring  states.  The  declaration  also  called 
on  the  five  permanent  members  of  the  UN  Security  Council  (China, 
France,  the  Soviet  Union,  Britain,  and  the  United  States)  and  on 
all  other  states  to  pledge  to  respect  Cambodia's  independence,  its 
territorial  integrity,  and  its  neutral  status  and  to  declare  that  they 
would  neither  draw  Cambodia  into  any  military  alliance,  nor  in- 
troduce foreign  troops  into  the  country,  nor  establish  any  military 
bases  there.  The  declaration's  principles  were  reaffirmed  in  suc- 
cessive UN  General  Assembly  resolutions,  and  they  formed  the 
basis  of  the  ASEAN-sponsored  framework  for  resolving  the  Cam- 
bodian question  in  the  1980s. 

Since  1979  the  ASEAN  countries  have  played  a  significant  role 
on  behalf  of  the  Cambodian  resistance  factions.  Individually  and 
collectively,  through  the  annual  conferences  of  their  foreign 
ministers,  these  countries  consistently  have  stressed  the  importance 


225 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Vietnam's  withdrawal  as  a  precondition  for  a  comprehensive 
political  settlement  of  the  Cambodian  question.  They  have  rejected 
all  moves  by  Hanoi  and  Phnom  Penh  that  were  aimed  at  legitimiz- 
ing the  Vietnamese  occupation  of  Cambodia  and  the  Heng  Samrin 
regime.  Together  with  China,  they  also  were  architects  of  the  Coa- 
lition Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea. 

Phnom  Penh's  principal  foreign  policy  spokesman  has  been  Viet- 
nam, and  its  major  diplomatic  moves  have  been  coordinated  by 
and  proclaimed  by  the  annual  conference  of  foreign  ministers  of 
the  three  Indochinese  states  meeting  consecutively  in  Hanoi  (or 
Ho  Chi  Minh  City),  in  Phnom  Penh,  and  in  Vientiane.  Hanoi's 
position  on  Cambodia  has  been  that  the  "so-called  Kampuchean 
problem  is  but  the  consequence  of  Chinese  expansionism  and 
hegemonism,"  that  Vietnam's  military  presence  in  Cambodia  was 
defensive  because  it  was  meeting  the  Chinese  threat  to  Cambodia 
and  to  Vietnam,  and  that  Hanoi  would  withdraw  from  Cambodia 
when  the  Chinese  threat  no  longer  existed. 

Thailand's  stance  on  the  Cambodian  issue  has  been  of  particu- 
lar concern  to  Phnom  Penh  and  to  Hanoi.  ASEAN  initially  main- 
tained the  position  that  Thailand  was  not  a  party  to  the  Cambodian 
conflict  but  an  "affected  bystander"  entitled  to  adopt  a  policy  of 
neutrality.  Hanoi  and  Phnom  Penh  denounced  that  posture  as 
"sham  neutrality"  and  accused  Thailand  of  colluding  with  China; 
they  alleged  that  Thailand  allowed  shipment  of  Chinese  arms 
through  its  territory  to  the  "remnants  of  [the]  Pol  Pot-Ieng  Sary 
clique,"  which  was  operating  inside  the  Thai  border.  They  also 
claimed  that  Bangkok  sheltered  and  armed  Pol  Pot's  guerrillas  and 
other  Cambodian  "reactionaries." 

Nevertheless,  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  made  friendly  overtures 
to  Bangkok.  In  June  1980,  for  example,  it  proposed  a  meeting  to 
discuss  resuming  "normal  relations"  and  turning  their  common 
border  into  "a  border  of  friendship  and  peace. "  The  Heng  Samrin 
regime  stated  that  its  primary  concern  was  the  elimination  of  "all 
hostile  acts"  between  the  two  countries  and  that  it  was  willing  to 
forget  the  past  and  "all  the  provocations  launched  by  Thailand 
against  Cambodia."  Thailand  replied  that  talks  with  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime  would  solve  nothing.  Besides,  Thai  officials  said, 
such  talks  would  lend  an  inappropriate  appearance  of  recognition 
to  the  Phnom  Penh  regime.  They  also  stressed  that  Vietnam  had 
to  withdraw  from  Cambodia  before  constructive  talks  could  take 
place. 

In  July  1980,  the  three  Indochinese  states  proposed  the  signing 
of  multilateral  or  bilateral  treaties  of  peaceful  coexistence,  non- 
aggression,  and  noninterference  among  themselves  and  Thailand. 


226 


Independence  monument 
in  Phnom  Penh 
Courtesy  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Robert  E.  Hammerquist 


They  added  that  the  treaties  should  also  be  signed  by  "other 
Southeast  Asian  countries."  The  proposal  also  called  for  the  crea- 
tion of  a  Southeast  Asian  zone  of  peace  and  stability  and  for  a 
demilitarized  border  zone  between  Cambodia  and  Thailand.  Bang- 
kok, however,  viewed  the  proposal  as  an  attempt  to  divert  inter- 
national attention  from  the  fundamental  question  of  Vietnamese 
occupation  and  as  a  gambit  to  get  indirect  or  "back-door"  recog- 
nition for  the  Heng  Samrin  regime. 

The  Indochinese  states  sought  to  open  a  dialogue  with  the 
ASEAN  countries  in  1981  by  proposing  a  regional  conference, 
which  was  to  be  attended  also  by  observers  such  as  the  UN  secre- 
tary general  and  by  representatives  from  several  countries.  The 
proposal  was  Hanoi's  way  of  internationalizing  the  Cambodian 
issue:  Vietnam  would  be  able  to  link  its  role  in  Cambodia  to  the 
roles  of  Thailand  and  of  China  in  aiding  the  anti-Vietnamese 
resistance  groups.  To  highlight  the  linkage,  Hanoi  made  two  sug- 
gestions: first,  the  regional  conference  could  address  "the  Cam- 
bodian question"  if  the  Thai  and  Chinese  connections  also  were 
discussed;  and  second,  Vietnam  would  immediately  withdraw  some 
of  its  troops  if  and  when  Thailand  stopped  aiding  the  resistance 
groups  and  if  the  UN  withdrew  its  recognition  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea. 

In  July  1982,  Hanoi,  aware  that  no  one  was  taking  it  seriously, 
departed  from  its  previous  position.  It  announced  that  it  had  gone 


227 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

ahead  with  a  partial  withdrawal  and  now  demanded  only  that 
Thailand  promise  to  stop  aiding  Khmer  insurgents.  At  that  time, 
the  Indochinese  foreign  ministers  revealed  that  "in  the  immediate 
future,"  the  PRK  would  not  plan  to  reclaim  the  Cambodian  seat 
at  the  United  Nations  if  the  Pol  Pot  clique  were  expelled  from  that 
organization.  The  Thai  government  dismissed  Hanoi's  statement 
as  a  rhetorical  concession  designed  only  to  mislead  the  world  and 
characterized  the  partial  withdrawal  as  nothing  more  than  a  dis- 
guised troop  rotation. 

At  the  first  Indochinese  summit  held  on  February  22  and  Febru- 
ary 23,  1983,  in  Vientiane,  the  participants  declared  that  all  Viet- 
namese "volunteers"  would  be  withdrawn  when  external  threats 
to  Cambodia  no  longer  existed,  but  that  Hanoi,  would  reassess  its 
option  to  return  to  Cambodia  if  a  new  threat  emerged  after  it  had 
withdrawn  from  the  country. 

Hanoi  contended  that  its  partial  withdrawal  was  a  positive  first 
step  toward  eventual  restoration  of  peace  in  Cambodia,  but  some 
observers  felt  that  the  real  reason  for  the  withdrawal  was  Hanoi's 
realization  that  a  deadlock  over  the  Cambodian  issue  would  cre- 
ate too  much  of  a  drain  on  its  limited  resources.  Another  likely 
reason  for  the  withdrawal  was  the  growing  Cambodian  irritation 
with  the  movement  of  Vietnamese  nationals  into  Cambodia's  fer- 
tile lands  around  the  Tonle  Sap  (see  Migration  and  Refugees, 
ch.  2).  This  population  migration  was  a  potential  source  of  renewed 
ethnic  conflict. 

In  July  1983,  the  Indochinese  foreign  ministers  denied  "the  slan- 
derous allegation  of  China,  the  United  States,  and  a  number  of 
reactionary  circles  within  the  ASEAN  countries"  that  Vietnam  was 
aiding  and  abetting  Vietnamese  emigration  to  Cambodia.  (Khmer 
Rouge  sources  claimed  that  as  of  1987,  between  600,000  and 
700,000  Vietnamese  immigrants  were  in  Cambodia;  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime  put  the  number  at  about  60,000.) 

In  September  1983,  ASEAN  foreign  ministers  issued  a  joint 
"Appeal  for  Kampuchean  Independence,"  proposing  a  phased 
Vietnamese  withdrawal,  coupled  with  an  international  peacekeeping 
force  and  with  assistance  in  rebuilding  areas  vacated  by  the  Viet- 
namese. Hanoi  rejected  the  appeal,  however,  seeking  instead  a  po- 
sition of  strength  from  which  it  could  dictate  terms  for  a  settlement. 
Vietnam  launched  a  major  dry-season  offensive  in  1984  in  an 
attempt  to  crush  all  resistance  forces  permanently.  The  offensive 
destroyed  most,  if  not  all,  resistance  bases. 

In  January  1985,  the  Indochinese  foreign  ministers  claimed  that 
the  Cambodian  situation  was  unfolding  to  their  advantage  and  that 
the  Cambodian  question  would  be  settled  in  five  to  ten  years  with 


228 


Government  and  Politics 


or  without  negotiations.  At  that  time,  PRK  Prime  Minister  Hun 
Sen  revealed  Phnom  Penh's  readiness  to  hold  peace  talks  with 
Sihanouk  and  with  Son  Sann,  but  only  if  they  agreed  to  dissociate 
themselves  from  Pol  Pot.  On  March  12,  Hun  Sen  proposed  a  dia- 
logue with  rival  factions  under  a  six-point  plan.  The  proposal  called 
for  the  removal  of  the  Pol  Pot  clique  from  all  political  and  military 
activities;  for  a  complete  Vietnamese  withdrawal;  for  national  recon- 
ciliation and  for  free  elections  under  UN  supervision;  for  peaceful 
coexistence  in  Southeast  Asia;  for  cessation  of  external  interfer- 
ence in  Cambodian  affairs;  and  for  the  establishment  of  an  inter- 
national supervisory  and  control  commission  to  oversee  the 
implementation  of  agreements.  Shortly  afterward,  Hanoi  stressed 
that  the  question  of  foreign  military  bases  in  Cambodia  was  an  issue 
that  could  be  negotiated  only  between  Vietnam  and  Cambodia. 
Hanoi  also  signaled  that  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime  could  partici- 
pate in  the  process  of  Cambodian  self-determination  only  if  it  dis- 
armed itself  and  broke  away  from  the  Pol  Pot  clique. 

From  "Proximity  Talks"  to  a  "Cocktail  Party" 

The  conciliatory  gestures  of  Hanoi  and  of  Phnom  Penh  were 
part  of  a  spate  of  proposals  and  counterproposals  made  in  1985. 
On  April  9,  Malaysia  suggested  "proximity,"  or  indirect,  talks 
between  the  CGDK  and  the  Heng  Samrin  regime.  Vietnam,  the 
PRK,  and  the  Soviet  Union  reacted  favorably.  Sihanouk  voiced 
"personal"  support  for  indirect  negotiations.  He  was,  however, 
uncertain  whether  his  CGDK  partners  and  unnamed  foreign  powers 
would  go  along  with  the  Malaysian  proposal  because  such  talks, 
indirect  as  they  might  be,  not  only  would  imply  de  facto  recogni- 
tion of  the  Phnom  Penh  regime  but  also  would  obscure  the  ques- 
tion of  Vietnamese  occupation.  ASEAN 's  deputy  foreign  ministers 
met  in  Bangkok  in  May,  nevertheless;  they  endorsed  the  Malay- 
sian plan  and  referred  the  matter  to  CGDK's  representatives  in 
Bangkok.  At  the  time  of  the  ASEAN  meeting,  Sihanouk  released 
a  memorandum  that  called  for  unconditional  peace  talks  among 
all  Cambodian  factions  and  for  the  formation  of  a  reconciliation 
government  comprising  both  the  CGDK  and  the  Heng  Samrin 
regime. 

During  the  ensuing  diplomatic  exchanges,  the  Malaysian  plan 
was  discarded.  The  ASEAN  foreign  ministers,  who  met  in  Kuala 
Lumpur  from  July  8  to  July  9,  1985,  adopted  a  Thai  compromise 
proposal  that  called  for  "a  form  of  indirect  or  proximity  talks"  be- 
tween the  CGDK  and  Vietnam.  The  proposal  noted  that  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime  could  attend  the  talks  only  as  part  of  the  Vietnamese 
delegation.  The  CGDK,  China,  and  the  United  States  backed  the 


229 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Thai  proposal,  but  Phnom  Penh  and  Hanoi  rejected  it  as  a  scheme 
to  restore  the  Pol  Pot  faction  to  power. 

In  yet  another  attempt  to  break  the  Cambodian  impasse,  In- 
donesia offered  in  November  1985  to  host  an  informal  "cocktail 
party"  for  all  warring  Cambodian  factions.  (At  that  time  Indone- 
sia served  as  ASEAN 's  official  "interlocutor"  with  Vietnam.)  Indo- 
nesia apparently  had  concluded  that  such  an  informal  gathering 
was  timely  in  view  of  two  recent  developments:  the  Khmer  Rouge 
announcement  in  July  that  it  would  acquiesce,  if  necessary,  to  being 
excluded  from  a  future  Cambodian  coalition  government;  and 
Hanoi's  disclosure  in  August  that  it  would  complete  its  withdrawal 
from  Cambodia  by  1990  (five  years  sooner  than  had  been  indi- 
cated in  its  April  1985  announcement),  even  in  the  absence  of  a 
political  settlement  on  the  Cambodian  issue  at  that  time.  Another 
notable  development  was  the  Khmer  Rouge  disclosure  in  Septem- 
ber that  Pol  Pot  had  stepped  down  from  his  post  as  commander 
in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  to  take  up  a  lesser  military  post.  On 
December  30,  Khieu  Samphan  stated  that  Pol  Pot's  political- 
military  role  would  cease  permanently  upon  Hanoi's  consenting 
to  complete  its  withdrawal  by  the  end  of  1990.  Hanoi,  in  an  ap- 
parent departure  from  its  previous  stand,  pledged  that  its  pullout 
would  be  completed  as  soon  as  the  Khmer  Rouge  forces  disarmed. 

In  1986  the  Cambodian  stalemate  continued  amid  further 
recriminations  and  new  conciliatory  gestures.  On  March  17,  the 
CGDK  issued  an  eight-point  peace  plan  that  included  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime  in  a  projected  four-party  Cambodian  government. 
The  plan  called  for  a  two-phase  Vietnamese  withdrawal;  for  a  cease- 
fire to  allow  an  orderly  withdrawal — both  the  cease-fire  and  the 
withdrawal  to  be  supervised  by  a  UN  observer  group,  for  the  in- 
itiation of  negotiations,  following  the  first  phase  of  the  withdrawal, 
and  for  the  formation  of  an  interim  four-party  coalition  govern- 
ment with  Sihanouk  as  president  and  Son  Sann  as  prime  minister. 
According  to  the  plan,  the  coalition  government  would  then  hold 
free  elections  under  UN  supervision  to  set  up  a  liberal,  democratic, 
and  nonaligned  Cambodia,  the  neutrality  of  which  would  be 
guaranteed  by  the  UN  for  the  first  two  or  three  years.  The  new 
Cambodia  would  welcome  aid  from  all  countries  for  economic 
reconstruction  and  would  sign  a  nonaggression  and  peaceful  coex- 
istence treaty  with  Vietnam.  Hanoi  and  Phnom  Penh  denounced 
the  plan  and  labeled  it  as  a  vain  attempt  by  China  to  counter  the 
PRK's  "rapid  advance."  Sihanouk  shared  some  of  the  misgivings 
about  the  plan,  fearing  that,  without  sufficient  safeguards,  the 
Khmer  Rouge  would  dominate  the  quadripartite  government  that 
emerged.  Perhaps  to  allay  such  misgivings,  China  signaled  the 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


possibility  of  ending  its  aid  to  the  Khmer  Rouge  if  Vietnam  with- 
drew from  Cambodia. 

In  late  October  1986,  Hanoi,  through  an  Austrian  intermedi- 
ary, suggested  two-stage  peace  negotiations  to  Sihanouk.  In  the 
first  stage,  there  were  to  be  preliminary  talks  in  Vienna  among 
all  Cambodian  parties,  including  the  Khmer  Rouge  (Pol  Pot, 
however,  was  to  be  excluded).  The  second  phase  was  to  be  an  inter- 
national conference  that  included  the  contending  Cambodian  fac- 
tions, as  well  as  Vietnam,  and  other  interested  countries.  Sihanouk 
responded  with  a  counterproposal  that  called  for  his  meeting  with 
a  top-level  Vietnamese  leader.  This  meeting  was  to  be  followed 
by  an  all-Cambodian  session  and  then  by  an  international  confer- 
ence. According  to  unconfirmed  reports,  Pol  Pot,  now  gravely  ill, 
had  been  transferred  to  Beijing  shortly  after  Hanoi's  offer  to  Siha- 
nouk. If  these  reports  were  true,  Pol  Pot's  role  within  the  Khmer 
Rouge  camp  may  have  ended  with  his  illness. 

A  new  phase  in  the  Cambodian  peace  strategies  began  in  1987. 
At  the  beginning  of  the  year  Hanoi  renewed  its  October  bid  to 
Sihanouk.  Hanoi  appeared  eager  to  seek  a  way  out  of  the  Cambo- 
dian imbroglio,  but  continued  to  argue  that  Vietnam  had  "secu- 
rity interests"  in  Cambodia  and  that  China  was  the  main  threat 
to  Southeast  Asia.  It  also  was  evident  that  Hanoi  was  attempting 
to  split  ASEAN 's  consensus  on  Cambodia  by  claiming  that  Indone- 
sia and  Malaysia  had  a  correct  view  of  the  Chinese  threat  while 
rejecting  the  view  of  Thailand  and  Singapore  that  Vietnam  was 
ASEAN 's  principal  nemesis  in  the  region. 

In  addition,  as  Soviet  interest  in  Cambodia  grew,  there  was 
speculation  among  observers  that  Moscow  might  involve  itself  in 
the  quest  for  a  negotiated  settlement.  A  visit  to  Phnom  Penh  in 
March  1987  by  Soviet  foreign  minister  Eduard  Shevardnadze  sig- 
naled a  departure  from  Moscow's  long-standing  position  that  it 
was  only  "a  third  party"  to  the  Cambodian  conflict.  It  also  con- 
stituted tacit  acknowledgment  that  the  Soviet  Union  had  been 
supporting — at  least  indirectly — Vietnam's  presence  in  Cambodia 
through  economic  and  military  aid,  which  totaled  the  equivalent 
of  US$2  billion  per  year  (see  Foreign  Trade  and  Aid,  ch.  3;  Mili- 
tary Developments  in  Postwar  Cambodia,  ch.  5). 

The  Heng  Samrin  regime  became  more  assertive  in  articulat- 
ing its  policy  options  than  it  had  been  before.  It  became  known 
in  early  April  that  Hun  Sen  had  sent  word  to  Sihanouk  suggesting 
a  meeting  in  Canberra,  or  Paris,  or  Stockholm  at  the  prince's  con- 
venience. (It  was  Hun  Sen's  second  effort  to  initiate  such  a  dia- 
logue. In  1984  he  had  proposed  a  similar  meeting,  but  Sihanouk 


231 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

had  declined  because  of  objections  by  China  and  by  his  CGDK 
partners.) 

Sihanouk's  one-year  leave  of  absence  from  the  CGDK,  effec- 
tive May  7,  1987,  was  a  good  sign  for  Cambodia  because  he  could 
now  freely  explore  possibilities  for  a  settlement  without  squabbling 
with  his  coalition  partners.  On  June  23,  Sihanouk  agreed  to  see 
Hun  Sen  in  Pyongyang,  but  two  days  later,  hours  after  Chinese 
acting  premier  Wan  Li  had  met  with  Sihanouk's  wife,  Princess 
Monique,  Sihanouk  abruptly  canceled  the  meeting.  China  appar- 
ently objected  to  any  negotiations  as  long  as  Vietnam  kept  troops 
in  Cambodia.  Sihanouk  said  in  July  that  he  preferred  to  talk  first 
with  a  Vietnamese  leader  because  the  Cambodian  conflict  was  be- 
tween the  Khmer  and  the  Vietnamese  and  not  among  the  Cam- 
bodian factions.  He  said  that  he  would  not  mind  meeting  with  Hun 
Sen,  however,  as  long  as  the  initiative  for  such  a  meeting  came 
from  Hun  Sen  or  his  regime  and  not  from  Hanoi. 

Events  occurred  rapidly  in  the  summer  of  1987.  In  June  UN 
secretary  general  Javier  Perez  de  Cuellar  issued  a  compromise  plan 
that  called  for  a  phased  Vietnamese  withdrawal;  for  national  recon- 
ciliation leading  to  the  formation  of  a  new  coalition  government 
with  Sihanouk  as  president;  for  a  complete  Vietnamese  pullout  and 
for  free  elections;  and  for  special  provisions  to  deal  with  the  armed 
Cambodian  factions.  On  July  1,  while  ostensibly  on  vacation  in 
the  Soviet  Union,  Hun  Sen  had  talks  with  Foreign  Minister  Eduard 
Shevardnadze.  The  two  agreed  that  "the  realities  which  prevail 
in  the  region"  must  not  be  ignored  in  any  plan  for  Cambodian 
settlement.  On  July  25,  the  Khmer  Rouge  faction  publicly  dis- 
avowed any  intention  to  return  to  power  at  the  expense  of  other 
factions  and  stated  that  to  do  so  would  jeopardize  its  national  union 
policy  and  would  alienate  "friends  in  the  world." 

Hanoi,  meanwhile,  continued  to  put  off  discussions  about  its 
presence  in  Cambodia,  thereby  forcing  the  resistance  to  deal  direcdy 
with  the  Heng  Samrin  regime.  Between  July  27  and  July  29,  Viet- 
nam's foreign  minister,  Nguyen  Co  Thach,  conferred  with  his 
Indonesian  counterpart  in  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  and  called  for  "an 
informal  meeting"  or  cocktail  party  of  all  Cambodian  factions 
without  any  preconditions.  The  cocktail  party,  to  be  held  in  Jakarta, 
was  to  be  followed  by  a  conference  of  all  concerned  countries,  in- 
cluding Vietnam.  On  July  30,  Heng  Samrin  journeyed  to  Moscow 
to  consult  with  Soviet  leader  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev.  Then  in  an 
interview  published  in  the  Italian  Communist  Party  daily  L  'Unita 
on  August  1 2 ,  Hun  Sen  sought  to  exonerate  the  Soviet  Union  from 
blame  for  Cambodia's  plight  and  instead  blamed  China  for  the 
country's  difficulties.  Referring  to  the  proposed  meeting  with 


232 


Phnom  Penh  Hill 
Courtesy  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Robert  E.  Hammerquist 


Sihanouk,  Hun  Sen  insinuated  that  Sihanouk  had  "bosses"  who 
would  not  let  him  engage  freely  in  a  dialogue.  On  August  13,  the 
Indochinese  governments  endorsed  "the  Ho  Chi  Minh  formula" 
(Hanoi's  term  for  Indonesia's  original  cocktail  party  idea)  as  a  sig- 
nificant "breakthrough"  toward  a  peaceful  setdement  in  Cambodia. 

The  ASEAN  foreign  ministers  met  informally  on  August  16  to 
discuss  the  cocktail  party  idea,  and  they  forged  a  compromise  that 
papered  over  some  of  the  differences  among  the  six  member  states 
concerning  the  Cambodia  situation.  Even  this  attempt  to  achieve 
unanimity  proved  fruitless,  however,  as  Hanoi  rejected  the  ASEAN 
suggestion. 

The  Sihanouk-Hun  Sen  Meeting 

Hun  Sen's  April  1987  proposal  for  a  talk  with  Sihanouk  was 
resurrected  in  August  when  the  prince  sent  a  message  to  Hun  Sen 
through  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization's  ambassador  in 
Pyongyang.  Sihanouk  was  hopeful  that  his  encounter  with  Hun 
Sen  would  lead  to  another  UN-sponsored  Geneva  conference  on 
Indochina,  which,  he  believed,  would  assure  a  political  settlement 
that  would  allow  Vietnam  and  the  Soviet  Union  to  save  face.  Such 
a  conference,  Sihanouk  maintained,  should  include  the  UN  secre- 
tary general,  representatives  of  the  five  permanent  members  of  the 
UN  Security  Council,  Laos,  Vietnam,  and  the  four  Cambodian 
factions.  He  also  suggested  the  inclusion  of  ASEAN  countries, 


233 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

members  of  the  defunct  International  Control  Commission  (India, 
Canada,  and  Poland),  and  other  concerned  parties. 

The  Heng  Samrin  regime  had  apparently  envisioned  a  meeting 
between  Sihanouk  and  Hun  Sen  when  it  announced  on  August  27 
a  "policy  on  national  reconciliation."  While  artfully  avoiding  the 
mention  of  Vietnam,  the  policy  statement  called  for  talks  with  the 
three  resistance  leaders  but  not  with  "Pol  Pot  and  his  close  associ- 
ates." An  appeal  to  overseas  Cambodians  to  support  Phnom  Penh's 
economic  and  national  defense  efforts  and  assurances  that  Cam- 
bodians who  had  served  the  insurgent  factions  would  be  welcomed 
home  and  would  be  assisted  in  resuming  a  normal  life  and  in  par- 
ticipating in  the  political  process  were  key  features  of  the  policy. 
The  regime  also  expressed  for  the  first  time  its  readiness  to  negoti- 
ate the  issue  of  Cambodian  refugees  in  Thailand.  The  offer  to 
negotiate  undercut  the  resistance  factions,  which,  Phnom  Penh  con- 
tended, were  exploiting  displaced  Cambodians  by  using  them 
against  the  Heng  Samrin  regime  for  military  and  political  purposes. 

Resistance  leaders  questioned  Phnom  Penh's  sincerity  in  promul- 
gating its  policy  of  reconciliation  and  were  uncertain  how  to 
respond.  At  their  annual  consultation  in  Beijing,  they  and  their 
Chinese  hosts  predictably  called  for  a  Vietnamese  pullout  as  a 
precondition  to  a  negotiated  settlement.  Sihanouk,  however,  launch- 
ing a  gambit  of  his  own  through  Cambodian  emigres  in  Paris,  called 
for  reconciliation  among  all  Khmer  factions.  The  initiative  met  with 
a  favorable,  but  qualified,  response  from  PRK  Prime  Minister  Hun 
Sen  and,  in  early  October,  the  Phnom  Penh  government  unveiled 
its  own  five-point  plan  for  a  political  settlement.  The  PRK  proposals 
envisioned  peace  talks  between  the  rival  Cambodian  camps  and 
"a  high  position  [for  Sihanouk]  in  the  leading  state  organ"  of  the 
PRK,  Vietnamese  withdrawal  in  conjunction  with  the  cutoff  of  out- 
side aid  to  the  resistance,  general  elections  (organized  by  the  Heng 
Samrin  regime)  held  after  the  Vietnamese  withdrawal,  and  the  for- 
mation of  a  new  four-party  coalition.  The  October  8  plan  also  pro- 
posed negotiations  with  Thailand  for  the  creation  of  a  zone  of  peace 
and  friendship  along  the  Cambodian-Thai  border,  for  discus- 
sions on  an  "orderly  repatriation"  of  Cambodian  refugees  from 
Thailand,  and  for  the  convening  of  an  international  conference. 
The  conference  was  to  be  attended  by  the  rival  Cambodian  camps, 
the  Indochinese  states,  the  ASEAN  states,  the  Soviet  Union,  China, 
India,  France,  Britain,  the  United  States,  and  other  interested  coun- 
tries. The  CGDK,  however,  rejected  the  plan  as  an  attempt  to  con- 
trol the  dynamics  of  national  reconciliation  while  Cambodia  was 
still  occupied  by  Vietnam. 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


Sihanouk  and  the  PRK  continued  their  exploratory  moves.  On 
October  19,  Hun  Sen  agreed  to  meet  with  Sihanouk,  even  though 
Sihanouk  had  cancelled  similar  meetings  scheduled  for  late  1984 
and  for  June  1987.  At  the  end  of  October,  Hun  Sen  flew  to  Moscow 
for  diplomatic  coordination.  The  CGDK  announced  on  October  31 
that  a  "clarification  on  national  reconciliation  policy"  had  been 
signed  by  all  three  resistance  leaders.  It  was  likely  that  the  two  main 
goals  of  the  clarification,  which  was  dated  October  1 ,  were  to  restate 
the  CGDK's  position  on  peace  talks  and  to  underline  the  unity 
among  the  resistance  leaders.  The  statement  said  that  "the  first 
phase"  of  Vietnamese  withdrawal  must  be  completed  before  a  four- 
party  coalition  government  could  be  set  up,  not  within  the  frame- 
work of  the  PRK  but  under  the  premises  of  a  "neutral  and  non- 
communist"  Cambodia. 

Sihanouk  was  clearly  in  the  spotlight  at  this  point.  It  was  possi- 
ble that  his  personal  diplomacy  would  stir  suspicion  among  his  coa- 
lition partners,  as  well  as  among  Chinese  and  ASEAN  leaders.  It 
was  also  possible  that  he  might  strike  a  deal  with  Phnom  Penh  and 
Hanoi  and  exclude  the  Khmer  Rouge  faction  and  its  patron,  China. 
Mindful  of  such  potential  misgivings,  Sihanouk  went  to  great 
lengths  to  clarify  his  own  stand.  He  said  that  he  would  not  accept 
any  "high  position"  in  the  illegal  PRK  regime,  that  he  would 
disclose  fully  the  minutes  of  his  talks  with  Hun  Sen,  and  that  he 
would  not  waver  from  his  commitment  to  a  "neutral  and  noncom- 
munist"  Cambodia  free  of  Vietnamese  troops. 

Sihanouk  and  Hun  Sen  met  at  Fere-en-Tardenois,  a  village 
northeast  of  Paris,  from  December  2  to  December  4,  1987.  The 
communique  they  issued  at  the  end  of  their  talks  mentioned  their 
agreement  to  work  for  a  political  solution  to  the  nine-year-old  con- 
flict and  to  call  for  an  international  conference.  The  conference, 
to  be  convened  only  after  all  Cambodian  factions  reached  an  agree- 
ment on  a  coalition  arrangement,  would  support  the  new  coali- 
tion accord  and  would  guarantee  the  country's  independence, 
neutrality,  and  nonalignment.  The  two  leaders  also  agreed  to  meet 
again  at  Fere-en-Tardenois  in  January  1988  and  in  Pyongyang  at 
a  later  date.  The  communique  ended  with  a  plea  to  the  other  Cam- 
bodian parties — Sihanouk's  coalition  partners — to  join  the  next 
rounds  of  talks. 

The  communique  offered  no  practical  solution.  In  fact,  it  did 
not  mention  Vietnam,  despite  Sihanouk's  demand  that  the  com- 
munique include  a  clause  on  Vietnamese  withdrawal.  At  a  Decem- 
ber 4  press  conference,  Hun  Sen  disclosed  an  understanding  with 
Sihanouk  that  "concrete  questions"  would  be  discussed  at  later 
meetings.  Included  in  the  concrete  questions  were  "the  withdrawal 


235 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Vietnamese  troops,  Cambodia's  future  government,  and  Noro- 
dom Sihanouk's  position."  Hun  Sen  also  revealed  that  during  the 
meeting  Sihanouk  had  told  him  that  4 'the  future  political  regime 
of  Cambodia"  should  be  a  French- style  democracy  with  a  multi- 
party system  and  free  radio  and  television.  In  an  official  commen- 
tary the  following  day,  Hanoi  was  deliberately  vague  on  Hun  Sen's 
concrete  questions,  which,  it  said,  would  be  dealt  with  4 'at  the  next 
meetings." 

In  foreign  capitals,  there  were  mixed  reactions  to  what  Hun  Sen 
called  the  "historic  meeting."  Officials  in  Phnom  Penh,  Hanoi, 
Vientiane,  and  Moscow  were  enthusiastic.  Thai  officials,  however, 
were  cautious,  if  not  disappointed,  and  they  stressed  the  need  for 
Vietnamese  withdrawal  and  for  Thailand's  participation  in  peace 
talks  with  the  Cambodians.  Kuala  Lumpur  and  Jakarta  both  wel- 
comed the  unofficial,  or  indirect,  talks  as  a  promising  start  toward 
a  political  solution.  They  agreed  with  Bangkok  on  the  necessity 
of  Vietnamese  withdrawal.  Officials  in  Pyongyang  said  the  meet- 
ing was  "a  good  thing,"  but  declined  to  accept  the  suggestion  of 
Hun  Sen  and  Sihanouk  that  they  mediate  between  China  and  the 
Soviet  Union  on  the  Cambodian  issue.  China  stressed  that  it  sup- 
ported Sihanouk's  efforts  to  seek  "a  fair  and  reasonable  political 
settlement  of  the  Kampuchean  question."  Such  a  settlement  was 
said  to  be  possible  only  when  Vietnam  withdrew  all  its  troops  from 
Cambodia. 

On  December  10,  Sihanouk  abruptly  announced  the  cancella- 
tion of  the  second  meeting  with  Hun  Sen.  He  said  that  such  a  meet- 
ing would  be  useless  because  Son  Sann  and  Khieu  Samphan  refused 
to  participate  in  it  and  because  they  also  refused  to  support  the 
joint  communique.  He  added  that — out  of  fear  that  the  govern- 
ments in  Phnom  Penh,  Hanoi,  and  Moscow  might  realize  an  un- 
warranted propaganda  advantage  from  the  meeting — he  would  not 
meet  Hun  Sen.  But  on  December  15,  Sihanouk  announced  abrupdy 
that  he  would  resume  talks  with  Hun  Sen  because  ASEAN  mem- 
bers saw  the  cancellation  as  "a  new  complication"  in  their  efforts 
to  pressure  the  Vietnamese  into  leaving  Cambodia.  By  Decem- 
ber 20,  Sihanouk  and  Hun  Sen  had  agreed  to  resume  talks  on  Janu- 
ary 27,  1988.  On  December  21,  Son  Sann  expressed  his  readiness 
to  join  the  talks  in  a  personal  capacity,  provided  that  Vietnam 
agreed  to  attend  the  talks  or,  if  this  was  not  possible,  provided  that 
Vietnam  informed  the  UN  secretary  general  and  the  five  perma- 
nent members  of  the  UN  Security  Council  of  its  plan  to  vacate 
Cambodia  as  quickly  as  possible  after  all  Cambodian  factions  had 
embarked  on  the  process  of  internal  reconciliation. 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


As  1987  drew  to  a  close,  talking  and  fighting  continued  amid 
hopes  and  uncertainties  about  the  future  of  Cambodia.  It  was 
equally  clear  that  progress  toward  a  political  settlement  hinged 
chiefly  on  the  credibility  of  Vietnam's  announced  intention  to  with- 
draw from  Cambodia  by  1990  and  that  this  withdrawal  alone  was 
insufficient  to  guarantee  a  peaceful  solution  to  Cambodia's  prob- 
lems. At  least  three  more  critical  issues  were  at  stake:  an  equitable 
power- sharing  arrangement  among  these  four  warring  factions,  an 
agreement  among  the  factions  to  disarm  in  order  to  ensure  that 
civil  war  would  not  recur,  and  an  effective  international  guaran- 
tee of  supervision  for  the  implementation  of  any  agreements  reached 
by  the  Cambodian  factions.  Still  another  critical  question  was 
whether  or  not  an  eventual  political  settlement  was  sufficient  to 
assure  a  new  Cambodia  that  was  neutral,  nonaligned,  and  non- 
communist. 

Cambodia:  1975-1982  by  Michael  Vickery  provides  an  instruc- 
tive discussion  on  the  throes  of  transition  from  Pol  Pot's  Democratic 
Kampuchea  to  Heng  Samrin's  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea. 
Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics  and  Society,  also  by  Michael  Vickery, 
presents  a  wide-ranging  treatment  of  the  People's  Republic  of 
Kampuchea.  Other  studies  include  Ben  Kiernan's  How  Pol  Pot  Came 
to  Power;  Craig  Etcheson's  The  Rise  and  Demise  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea; Revolution  and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays,  edit- 
ed by  David  P.  Chandler  and  Ben  Kiernan;  Milton  Osborne's  Before 
Kampuchea:  Preludes  to  Tragedy;  and  Kampuchea:  Decade  of  the 
Genocide — Report  of  a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission,  edited  by  Kimmo 
Kiljunen. 

External  factors  impinging  on  Cambodia  in  the  1970s  and  the 
1980s  are  analyzed  from  various  perspectives  in  William  Shaw- 
cross's  Sideshow:  Kissinger,  Nixon,  and  the  Destruction  of  Cambodia;  The 
Third  Indochina  Conflict,  a  collection  of  essays  edited  by  David  Elliot; 
Chang  Pao-min's  Kampuchea  Between  China  and  Vietnam,  which 
describes  Cambodia  as  a  pawn  in  Sino- Vietnamese  rivalry  for  in- 
fluence in  Southeast  Asia  in  general  and  Indochina  in  particular; 
and  Henry  Kissinger's  White  House  Years  and  Years  of  Upheaval. 
Kishore  Mahbubani's  "The  Kampuchean  Problem:  A  Southeast 
Asian  Perspective,"  in  the  Winter  1983-84  issue  of  Foreign  Affairs, 
analyzes  the  complexity  of  the  Cambodian  problem,  a  topic  also 
covered  in  Justus  van  der  Kroef's  "  'Proximity  Cocktails'  and 
'Provisional  Salvation':  Cambodia's  Tortuous  Course,"  in  the 
April  1986  issue  of  Issues  &  Studies.  The  Fall  1986  issue  of  the 


237 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

International  Journal  of  Politics  is  a  special  edition  of  six  essays  devot- 
ed entirely  to  the  subject  of  "Cambodia:  Politics  and  Internation- 
al Relations." 

Further  insights  into  the  politics  of  warring  Cambodian  factions 
are  offered  in  the  following  publications:  Indochina  Chronology,  a 
quarterly  publication  of  the  Institute  of  East  Asian  Studies,  Univer- 
sity of  California  at  Berkeley,  which  contains  a  section  on  Kam- 
puchea; Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  an  annual  publication  of  the  Institute 
of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  Singapore;  the  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review's  annual  Asia  Yearbook;  "Kampuchea"  in  the  Yearbook  on  In- 
ternational Communist  Affairs,  of  the  Hoover  Institution  on  War,  Revo- 
lution and  Peace;  and  the  occasional  "Kampuchea  Diary"  columns 
by  Jacques  Bekaert,  in  the  Bangkok  Post.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


238 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


(Top)  Male  officers  and  female  militia  member  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer) 
People's  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces 
(Bottom )  Guerrillas  of  the  Khmer  People 's 
National  Liberation  Front 


HISTORY  ATTESTS  TO  CAMBODIA'S  martial  origins.  In 
antiquity  Cambodia,  having  conquered  Laos,  parts  of  Thailand, 
and  the  Malay  Peninsula,  held  sway  over  a  vast  area  of  Southeast 
Asia.  Khmer  martial  prowess  waned  in  the  early  fifteenth  century, 
however,  and  Cambodia  subsequently  endured  periods  of  coloni- 
zation, occupation,  and  vassalage  by  its  more  militarily  powerful 
neighbors,  Thailand  and  Vietnam.  This  long  period  of  decline 
reached  its  nadir  in  the  early  nineteenth  century,  when  Cambodia 
nearly  ceased  to  exist  as  a  sovereign  state  as  the  result  of  encroach- 
ments by  its  neighbors.  In  1863  the  Cambodian  king  acquiesced 
in  the  establishment  of  a  French  protectorate  over  his  nation,  in 
order  to  preserve  it  from  extinction.  The  protectorate's  authority 
was  extended  often  by  force  of  arms,  and  ultimately  Cambodia  be- 
came a  de  facto  colony  that  eventually  gave  birth  to  a  modern  state 
with  its  own  armed  forces  and  military  doctrine. 

Since  World  War  II,  Cambodia  has  enjoyed  few  strife-free  peri- 
ods. Its  people  have  suffered  colonization,  prolonged  civil  war,  and 
occupation  by  a  foreign  power  almost  continuously.  During  this 
time,  it  has  been  ruled  by  three  authoritarian  governments  of  differ- 
ing ideological  orientations  and  varying  degrees  of  repression. 

American  military  aid  to  Cambodia  began  indirectly  in  1950  in 
the  form  of  a  security  assistance  program  for  the  French  forces  in 
Indochina,  that  enabled  them  to  expand  a  recently  created  in- 
digenous army.  In  1955  the  United  States  agreed  to  continue  this 
aid  to  the  independent  kingdom  of  Cambodia.  The  program,  which 
included  military  training  and  a  resident  Military  Assistance 
Advisory  Group  (MAAG),  lasted  until  terminated  by  the  Cambo- 
dian government.  Security  assistance  was  again  extended  to  the 
Khmer  Republic  (see  Appendix  B)  from  1970  until  that  govern- 
ment fell  in  1975  to  the  Khmer  Rouge  (see  Appendix  B).  After 
1975  the  United  States  extended  humanitarian  assistance  through 
United  Nations  (UN)  agencies  to  Cambodian  refugees  on  the  Thai 
border  and  gave  nonlethal  aid,  only,  to  the  two  noncommunist  com- 
ponents of  the  Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
(CGDK — see  Appendix). 

In  1987  Cambodia  was  the  reluctant  host  to  a  substantial  Viet- 
namese military  presence,  reinforced  by  its  Cambodian  surrogate 
army.  History  thus  appeared  to  be  repeating  itself,  and  foreign 
observers  and  Cambodian  nationalists  feared  that  the  country 
eventually  might  become  part  of  a  Hanoi-dominated  Indochinese 


241 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

federation.  The  UN  recognized  the  tripartite  CGDK  as  the  legiti- 
mate government  of  Cambodia.  The  insurgent  forces  of  the  coali- 
tion were  capable  only  of  conducting  guerrilla  raids  and  sabotage 
missions  within  Cambodian  territory,  against  the  Vietnamese 
occupation  forces  and  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 
Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  (KPRAF — see  Appendix  B)  of  the 
Phnom  Penh  government,  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea 
(PRK — see  Appendix  B).  A  number  of  foreign  observers  assessed 
the  military  situation  as  a  stalemate  and  doubted  that  Hanoi  would, 
or  could,  fulfill  its  public  commitment  to  withdraw  its  forces  by 
1990  from  a  Cambodia  that  was  becoming  a  "strategic  append- 
age" of  the  "indivisible  strategic  unit  of  Indochina"  claimed  by 
Vietnamese  military  doctrine. 

Historical  Background 

The  Time  of  Greatness,  A.D.  802-1431 

Bas-relief  friezes  in  galleries  of  the  vast  Angkor  Wat  complex 
in  Siemreab  depict  Cambodia's  land  and  naval  conquests  during 
its  "time  of  greatness,"  the  Angkorian  Period,  which  spanned  the 
years  from  A.D.  802  to  1431  (see  The  Angkorian  Period,  ch.  1). 
During  this  time,  the  Khmer  Empire,  by  force  of  arms,  extended 
its  dominions  to  encompass  much  of  Southeast  Asia.  The  warrior 
kings,  who  actually  led  troops  in  battle,  did  not  customarily  main- 
tain standing  armies  but  raised  troops  as  necessity  required.  His- 
torian David  P.  Chandler  has  described  the  relationship  between 
the  monarch  and  the  military: 

Though  the  king,  who  led  his  country  into  batde,  some- 
times engaged  his  chief  enemy  in  single  combat,  Khmer 
military  strength  rested  on  the  junior  officers,  the  cap- 
tains of  militia.  These  men  commanded  the  loyalty  of 
peasant  groups  in  their  particular  locality.  If  the  king  con- 
quered a  region,  a  new  captain  of  militia  would  be  en- 
rolled and  put  under  an  oath  of  allegiance.  The  captains 
were  simply  headmen  of  the  outlying  regions,  but  their 
connection  with  the  king  enhanced  their  status.  In  time 
of  war  they  were  expected  to  conscript  the  peasants  in 
their  district  and  to  lead  them  to  Angkor  to  join  the  Khmer 
army.  If  the  captains  disobeyed  the  king  they  were  put 
to  death.  The  vast  majority  of  the  Khmer  population  were 
of  the  farmer-builder-soldier  class. 

Little  is  known  conclusively  about  warfare  in  early  Cambodia, 
but  much  can  be  assumed  from  the  environment  or  deduced  from 
epigraphic  and  sculptural  evidence.  The  army  was  made  up  of 


242 


National  Security 


peasant  levies,  and  because  the  society  relied  on  rice  cultivation, 
Khmer  military  campaigns  were  probably  confined  to  the  dry  season 
when  peasant- soldiers  could  be  spared  from  the  rice  fields.  Battles 
were  fought  on  hard-baked  plains  from  which  the  padi  (or  rice) 
had  been  harvested.  Tactics  were  uncomplicated.  The  Khmer 
engaged  their  foes  in  pitched  frontal  assaults,  while  trying  to  keep 
the  sun  at  their  backs.  War  elephants  were  widely  employed,  for 
both  tactical  and  logistical  purposes.  Late  in  the  Khmer  Empire, 
the  ballista  (a  kind  of  catapult,  often  shaped  like  a  giant  crossbow) 
took  its  place  in  regional  warfare.  It  probably  was  introduced  to 
the  Cambodians  by  Cham  (see  Glossary)  mercenaries,  who  had 
copied  it  earlier  from  Chinese  models. 

The  Khmer  Empire's  principal  adversaries  were  the  Thai,  the 
Vietnamese,  and  the  Cham  from  the  powerful  kingdom  of  Champa 
in  central  Vietnam.  Warfare,  seemingly,  was  endemic,  and  mili- 
tary campaigns  occurred  continuously.  The  Cham — attacking  by 
land  in  1177  and  again  by  water  in  1178 — sacked  Angkor  twice. 
In  1181  a  young  nobleman  who  was  shortly  to  become  Jay avar- 
man  VII,  and  to  emerge  as  one  of  the  greatest  of  the  ancient  Khmer 
kings,  raised  an  army  and  defeated  the  Cham  in  a  naval  battle. 
After  his  death,  ca.  1218,  Kambuja  entered  a  long  decline,  result- 
ing in  eventual  disintegration. 

Period  of  Decline,  1431-1863 

Scholars  frequently  assert  that  the  decline  of  the  Khmer  Empire 
was  precipitated  by  the  drain  on  its  economy,  and  on  the  morale 
and  energy  of  its  people,  caused  by  the  continual  and  monumen- 
tal construction  program  at  Angkor.  Dynastic  rivalries  took  their 
toll,  and  slave  rebellions  are  also  thought  to  have  hastened  the 
demise  of  the  empire. 

Over  the  centuries,  the  Khmer  kings  never  completely  pacified 
the  countryside.  Khmer  martial  spirit  survived,  as  was  demon- 
strated by  uprisings  and  rebellions,  either  spontaneous  or  contrived, 
throughout  periods  of  foreign  encroachment  and  domination. 
Among  the  significant  rebellions  was  one  that  occurred  beginning 
in  1840  which  resulted  in  Cambodia's  being  placed  under  the  joint 
suzerainty  of  Thailand  and  Vietnam  (see  Domination  by  Thailand 
and  Vietnam,  ch.  1). 

The  French  Protectorate,  1863-1954 

Following  entreaties  that  had  been  made  a  decade  earlier  by  Cam- 
bodian King  Ang  Duong  to  Napoleon  III  for  protection  from  the 
Vietnamese,  his  "traditional  enemies,"  a  delegation  of  French  naval 
officers  in  1863  proceeded  to  Phnom  Penh  from  Saigon  to  con- 
clude a  treaty  with  Duong's  son,  now  King  Norodom  (1859-1904), 


243 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

that  created  a  French  protectorate  (see  The  French  Protectorate, 
ch.  1).  It  is  generally  accepted  by  historians  that  only  the  inter- 
vention of  the  French  prevented  the  extinction  of  Cambodia. 

Heavy  taxation  as  well  as  resentment  against  foreign  domina- 
tion and  the  puppet  rulers  who  sat  on  the  throne  in  Phnom  Penh 
were  the  causes  of  the  intermittent  rebellions  that  marked  the  colo- 
nial period.  Revolts  erupted  in  1866  and  in  1870  that  attracted  con- 
siderable support  in  the  countryside.  They  were  quelled  by  the 
French,  assisted  by  Norodom's  half  brother  (the  future  king), 
Sisowath,  who  led  his  troops  alongside  the  French  in  the  suppres- 
sion of  both  rebellions. 

Another  serious  rebellion  occurred  in  1884,  when  the  French 
forced  upon  King  Norodom  a  new  treaty  that  tightened  their  con- 
trol over  Cambodia.  The  reforms  stipulated  in  the  new  accord,  such 
as  the  abolition  of  slavery  and  the  institutionalization  of  land  owner- 
ship, struck  at  the  very  heart  of  the  privileged  status  enjoyed  by 
the  Cambodian  elite  in  the  countryside.  The  result  was  a  widespread 
insurrection  evoking  such  support  that  a  local  French  official  in 
Kampong  Cham  noted  in  1886  that  "...  the  entire  Cambodian 
population  acquiesces  in  the  revolt."  Quelling  the  rebellion  took 
one  and  one-half  years,  and  it  tied  down  some  4,000  French  and 
Vietnamese  troops  that  had  been  brought  in  from  Cochinchina  (the 
southern  part  of  Vietnam). 

Unrest  surfaced  periodically  before  World  War  II,  and  various 
episodes  of  Cambodians'  defying  colonial  rule  were  recorded. 
Reports  by  French  officials  also  hinted  at  widespread  insecurity 
in  the  countryside,  where  peasants  frequently  were  at  the  mercy 
of  bandit  gangs.  The  colonial  military  forces  in  Cambodia,  which 
were  available  to  quell  potential  insurrections  during  this  period, 
consisted  of  a  light  infantry  battalion  (Bataillon  Tirailleurs  Cam- 
bodgiens)  and  a  national  or  native  constabulary  (Garde  Nation- 
ale,  also  called  Garde  Indigene). 

The  light  infantry  battalion,  a  Khmer  unit  with  French  officers, 
was  part  of  a  larger  force,  the  third  brigade,  which  had  responsi- 
bility for  Cambodia  and  for  Cochinchina.  In  addition  to  the  Cam- 
bodian battalion,  the  brigade  was  composed  of  French  colonial  and 
Vietnamese  light  infantry  regiments  and  support  elements.  The 
brigade,  headquartered  in  Saigon,  was  ultimately  responsible  to 
a  supreme  military  command  for  Indochina  located  in  Hanoi. 

Under  the  French  pre- World  War  II  colonial  regime,  the  con- 
stabulary consisted  of  a  force  of  about  2,500  men  and  a  mixed 
Franco-Khmer  headquarters  element  of  about  forty  to  fifty  officers, 
technicians,  and  support  personnel.  The  force  was  divided  into 
about  fifteen  companies  deployed  in  the  provinces.  Control  of  the 
constabulary  was  vested  in  the  colonial  civil  administration,  but 


244 


National  Security 


in  times  of  crisis,  command  could  pass  quickly  to  military  authorities 
in  Saigon  or  in  Hanoi.  Service  in  the  constabulary  theoretically 
was  voluntary,  and  personnel  received  a  cash  salary.  Enlistments, 
however,  were  rarely  sufficient  to  keep  pace  with  personnel  require- 
ments, and  villages  occasionally  were  tasked  to  provide  recruits. 

The  Japanese  Occupation,  1941-45 

In  1940  the  Japanese  government,  after  negotiating  a  treaty  of 
friendship  with  Thailand,  sought  special  concessions  in  Indochina 
from  the  French  colonial  authorities.  The  Vichy  administration  in 
Hanoi,  under  pressure  from  the  German  government,  signed  an 
agreement  with  Tokyo  that  permitted  the  movement  of  Japanese 
troops  through  the  transportation  hubs  of  Indochina. 

Thailand  subsequentiy  sought  to  take  advantage  of  both  its  friend- 
ship with  Tokyo  and  French  military  weakness  in  the  region  by 
launching  an  invasion  of  Cambodia's  western  provinces.  Although 
the  French  suffered  a  series  of  land  defeats  in  the  skirmishes  that 
followed,  a  unique  twist  in  the  confrontation  came  from  a  naval 
batde  that  ensued  near  the  Thai  island  of  Ko  Chang.  A  small  French 
naval  force  intercepted  a  Thai  battle  fleet,  en  route  to  attack  Saigon, 
and  sank  two  battleships  and  other  light  craft.  The  Japanese  then 
intervened  and  arranged  a  treaty,  signed  in  Tokyo  in  March  1941 , 
compelling  the  French  to  concede  to  Thailand  the  provinces  of  Bat- 
dambang,  Siemreab,  and  parts  of  Kampong  Thum  and  Stoeng 
Treng.  Cambodia  thus  lost  one-third  of  its  territory  and  nearly  half 
a  million  citizens. 

The  Japanese,  while  leaving  the  Vichy  colonial  government 
nominally  in  charge  throughout  Indochina,  established  in  Cam- 
bodia a  garrison  that  numbered  8,000  troops  by  August  1941. 
Preservation  of  order  on  a  day-to-day  basis,  however,  continued 
to  be  the  responsibility  of  the  colonial  authorities,  who  were  per- 
mitted to  retain  the  constabulary  and  the  light  infantry  battalion. 
These  forces  were  sufficient  to  quell  the  first  stirrings  of  nation- 
alistic unrest  in  1941  and  in  1942. 

Anti-French  agitation  assumed  a  more  overt  form,  in  July  1942, 
when  early  nationalist  leaders  Pach  Chhoeun  and  Son  Ngoc  Thanh 
organized  a  demonstration  in  Phnom  Penh  over  an  obscure  inci- 
dent involving  Cambodian  military  personnel.  In  this  occurrence, 
a  monk  named  Hem  Chieu  attempted  to  subvert  some  Khmer  mili- 
tary personnel  by  involving  them  in  vague  coup  plotting  against 
the  colonial  administration.  The  plot  was  discovered,  and  the  monk 
was  arrested;  Chhoeun  and  Thanh,  believing  they  had  tacit 
Japanese  support,  staged  a  march  on  the  French  residency  by  some 
2,000  people,  many  of  them  monks.  The  repressive  reaction  by 


245 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  colonial  authorities  resulted  in  many  injuries  and  in  mass  arrests. 
Although  the  Japanese  failed  to  support  Thanh  as  he  had  expected, 
they  spirited  him  away  to  Japan,  where  he  was  trained  for  the  next 
three  years  and  was  commissioned  a  captain  in  the  Japanese  army. 
Chhoeun  was  arrested  and  sentenced  to  life  imprisonment. 

On  March  9,  1945,  Japanese  forces  in  Indochina,  including  those 
in  Cambodia,  overthrew  the  French  colonial  administration;  and, 
in  a  bid  to  revive  the  flagging  support  of  local  populations  for 
Tokyo's  war  effort,  they  encouraged  indigenous  rulers  to  proclaim 
independence  (see  The  Emergence  of  Nationalism,  ch.  1).  Dur- 
ing this  period  of  Japanese-sponsored  independence,  the  fate  of  the 
constabulary  and  of  the  light  infantry  battalion  remained  uncer- 
tain. The  battalion  apparently  was  demobilized  for  the  most  part, 
while  the  constabulary  remained  in  place  but  was  reduced  to  in- 
effectuality.  Presumably  both  forces  were  leaderless  because  their 
French  officers  were  interned  by  the  Japanese  for  the  remainder 
of  the  war. 

Tokyo,  however,  did  not  plan  to  leave  the  Indochinese  coun- 
tries without  a  military  force  following  the  March  9  coup.  Plans 
had  been  prepared  for  the  creation  of  5  volunteer  units  of  1,000 
troops  each.  There  was  no  thought  that  such  a  native  force  would 
fight  alongside  Japanese  troops,  but  rather  that  it  would  be  used 
to  preserve  public  order  and  internal  security.  It  was  intended  that 
recruitment  of  indigenous  personnel  for  the  volunteer  units  would 
be  through  physical  and  written  exams.  Before  the  plan  could  be 
implemented  in  Cambodia,  however,  the  war  ended,  and  the  con- 
cept died  without  further  action. 

The  conclusion  of  World  War  II  caused  considerable  turmoil 
in  Cambodia:  a  defeated  Japanese  military  contingent  waited  to 
be  disarmed  and  repatriated;  French  nationals  newly  released  from 
internment  sought  to  resume  their  prewar  existence;  diverse  Allied 
military  units  returned  to  Phnom  Penh  to  reimpose  a  colonial  ad- 
ministration. In  the  countryside  there  were  two  sources  of  unrest. 
On  the  western  fringes  of  the  country,  the  Khmer  Issarak  (see 
Appendix  B),  nationalist  insurgents  with  Thai  backing,  declared 
their  opposition  to  a  French  return  to  power  in  Cambodia, 
proclaimed  a  government-in-exile,  and  established  a  base  in 
Batdambang  Province  (see  fig.  1).  On  the  eastern  frontier,  the  Viet- 
namese communist  forces,  or  Viet  Minh  (see  Appendix  B)  infil- 
trated the  Cambodian  border  provinces,  organized  a  "Khmer 
People's  Liberation  Army"  (not  to  be  confused  with  the  later  Cam- 
bodian force,  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  National  Liber- 
ation Armed  Forces  [KPNLAF — see  Appendix  B],  which  is 


246 


A  sub-lieutenant  of  the 
Cambodian  national  army, 
ca.  1952 
Courtesy  National  Archives 


sometimes  called  the  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Army), 
and  began  seeking  a  united  front  with  the  Khmer  Issarak. 

The  First  Indochina  War,  1945-54 

It  was  under  such  exigencies  that  a  Cambodian  army  was  created, 
primarily  by  Prince  Monireth,  the  heir  to  the  throne,  who  earlier 
had  been  passed  over  by  the  French  in  favor  of  Prince  Norodom 
Sihanouk,  who  was  considered  more  pliable.  In  the  fall  of  1945, 
Monireth  gained  the  concurrence  of  returning  French  authorities 
in  his  plan  to  raise  an  indigenous  military  force  to  fill  the  vacuum 
left  by  the  defeated  Japanese  and  to  counter  mounting  internal  dis- 
order. On  November  23,  in  his  capacity  as  defense  minister,  he 
made  public  two  decisions  concerning  this  issue.  The  first  was  to 
form  the  first  battalion  of  a  nascent  Cambodian  army,  and  he  in- 
vited former  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs)  of  the  demobilized 
colonial  light  infantry  battalion  to  join  the  new  unit.  The  second 
was  to  open  an  officer-candidate  school,  and  he  extended  an  invi- 
tation to  young  men  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  twenty-five 
with  a  junior  high-school  education  to  apply  for  admission.  The 
school  duly  opened  on  January  1 ,  1946,  and  part  of  it  was  reserved 
for  NCO  training. 

Two  important  agreements  between  Phnom  Penh  and  Paris  gave 
the  Cambodian  military  forces  a  firmer  official  footing  in  1946. 
The  first,  the  Franco-Cambodian  Modus  Vivendi  of  January  7, 


247 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


1946,  for  the  most  part  concerned  political  matters.  In  military 
affairs,  however,  it  gave  official  recognition  to  the  existence  of  a 
Cambodian  army,  although  it  placed  French  advisers  in  the  Cam- 
bodian Ministry  of  Defense  and  declared  that  French  authorities 
had  responsibility  for  maintaining  order  in  Cambodia. 

The  second  agreement,  the  Franco-Khmer  Military  Convention 
of  November  20,  1946,  was  more  significant  in  Cambodian  mili- 
tary history  because  it  established  the  organization  and  the  mis- 
sion of  the  nation's  armed  forces.  The  pact  affirmed  that  Cambodia, 
as  an  autonomous  state  within  the  French  Union,  would  have  at 
its  disposal  indigenous  forces,  the  missions  of  which  were  to  up- 
hold the  sovereignty  of  the  king,  to  preserve  internal  security,  and 
to  defend  the  frontiers  of  the  country.  The  accord  also  noted  that 
Cambodia  participated  in  the  defense  of  the  French  Union  by  plac- 
ing its  military  units  at  the  disposal  of  the  French  High  Commis- 
sioner for  Indochina,  and  that,  reciprocally,  other  French  Union 
forces  helped  to  defend  Cambodia.  The  Cambodian  forces  were 
to  be  composed  of  units  with  a  territorial  responsibility  and  a  mo- 
bile reserve.  The  supreme  commander  would  be  the  king,  who 
would  exercise  his  powers  through  a  Ministry  of  Defense  assisted 
by  a  Franco-Khmer  general  staff.  The  Cambodians  also  were 
granted  the  responsibilities  of  recruiting,  of  determining  obliga- 
tory military  service,  of  designating  unit  tables  of  organization  and 
equipment,  and  of  deploying  troops  internally.  The  stationing  of 
Cambodian  units  outside  the  country,  however,  was  to  be  based 
on  mutual  understanding  between  the  king  and  the  French  High 
Commissioner  for  Indochina  (see  The  Struggle  for  Independence, 
ch.  1). 

In  1947  the  Cambodian  government  faced  a  mounting  threat 
from  several  thousand  Khmer  Issarak  combatants,  whose  numbers 
would  swell  to  around  10,000  by  1949.  In  an  effort  to  keep  pace 
with  their  domestic  adversaries,  the  Cambodian  military  forces 
slowly  but  inexorably  grew  in  numbers  as  the  months  and  years 
passed.  In  January  1947,  the  effective  strength  of  the  Cambodian 
military  stood  at  about  4,000  personnel,  of  which  3,000  served  in 
the  constabulary.  The  remainder  were  in  a  mobile  reserve  of  two 
battalion- sized  units  (one  of  them  newly  formed)  named,  respec- 
tively, the  First  Cambodian  Rifle  Battalion  and  the  Second  Cam- 
bodian Rifle  Battalion  (Bataillon  de  Chasseurs  Cambodgiens). 
These  first  Cambodian  military  units  went  into  action  in  1947 
against  the  Khmer  Issarak.  During  the  next  two  years,  two  more 
rifle  battalions  were  added,  bringing  total  strength  up  to  6,000  per- 
sonnel, with  about  half  serving  in  the  Garde  Nationale  and  half 
in  the  mobile  reserve.  The  latter  at  this  time  comprised  three  rifle 


248 


National  Security 


battalions  (one  battalion  had  been  allocated  to  French  Union  forces 
elsewhere  in  Indochina). 

In  July  1949,  in  another  military  agreement  with  France,  Cam- 
bodian forces  were  granted  autonomy  within  operational  sectors 
in  the  provinces  of  Siemreab  and  Kampong  Thum,  which  had  been 
part  of  the  territory  returned  to  Cambodia  by  Thailand  in  early 
1947.  Under  an  additional  protocol  signed  in  June  1950,  provin- 
cial governors  were  assigned  the  responsibility  for  the  pacification 
of  the  territories  under  their  jurisdictions;  to  accomplish  this  mis- 
sion they  were  each  given  a  counterinsurgency  force  consisting  of 
one  independent  infantry  company. 

The  early  1950s  were  marked  by  further  milestones  in  the  de- 
velopment of  the  Cambodian  military  forces.  In  the  fall  of  1950, 
a  military  assistance  agreement  between  the  United  States  and 
France  provided  for  an  expansion  of  indigenous  forces  in  Indo- 
china, and  by  1952  Cambodian  troop  strength  had  reached  13,000 
personnel,  greater  than  that  of  French  forces  in  the  country.  In 
the  meantime,  more  rifle  battalions  were  formed,  combat- support 
units  were  established,  and  a  framework  for  logistical  support  was 
set  up.  Cambodian  units  were  given  wider  responsibility:  protec- 
tion of  the  rubber  plantations  in  the  area  of  the  middle  Mekong, 
and,  to  prevent  infiltration  by  the  Viet  Minh,  surveillance  of  the 
coastal  areas  of  the  southern  provinces  and  of  the  eastern  frontier 
with  Cochinchina. 

In  June  1952,  Prince  Sihanouk — determined  to  transcend  his 
figurehead  role — seized  power,  staging  what  was  termed  a  ' 'royal 
coup  d'etat."  He  suspended  the  constitution  "to  restore  .  .  .  order 
and  security  throughout  the  country."  Taking  command  of  army 
operations,  he  led  his  troops  against  Son  Ngoc  Thanh's  Khmer 
Issarak  forces  in  Siemreab  Province,  where  he  announced  that  he 
had  driven  "700  red  guerrillas"  across  the  border  into  Thailand. 
As  the  year  wore  on,  the  French  returned  to  Cambodian  control 
the  battalion  that  had  been  assigned  to  the  French  Union  forces 
since  the  late  1940s.  The  unit  returned  ceremoniously  to  Phnom 
Penh  in  October.  In  December  the  Cambodian  operational  sector 
of  Siemreab  was  enlarged  by  the  addition  of  Batdambang  Province, 
and  the  subsector  of  Batdambang  City  came  under  the  command 
of  a  previously  obscure  lieutenant  colonel,  Lon  Nol.  The  opera- 
tional sector  of  Kampong  Thum  was  given  its  own  combat  element, 
the  Third  Cambodian  Rifle  Battalion,  an  elite  unit  that  was  sub- 
ject to  the  direct  orders  of  the  monarch. 

In  early  1953,  Sihanouk  embarked  on  a  world  tour  to  publicize 
his  campaign  for  independence,  contending  that  he  could  "check- 
mate communism  by  opposing  it  with  the  force  of  nationalism." 


249 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Following  his  tour,  he  "retired"  to  Batdambang  Province,  which 
was  declared  a  "free  zone  of  independence"  and  where  he  was 
joined  by  30,000  Cambodian  troops  and  police  in  a  show  of  sup- 
port and  strength.  Elsewhere,  Cambodian  troops  under  French 
officers  staged  slowdowns  or  refused  the  commands  of  their  supe- 
riors, as  a  demonstration  of  solidarity  with  Sihanouk.  Full  indepen- 
dence was  granted  by  France  in  November  1953,  and  Sihanouk, 
returning  to  Phnom  Penh,  took  command  of  the  army  of  17,000 
troops,  which  had  been  renamed  the  Royal  Khmer  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Royales  Khmeres — FARK — see  Appendix  B). 

In  March  1954,  combined  Viet  Minh  and  Khmer  Issarak  forces 
launched  attacks  from  Vietnam  into  northeastern  Cambodia. 
Sihanouk  personally  directed  a  sustained  counterattack.  Conscrip- 
tion was  instituted  for  men  between  fifteen  and  thirty-five  years 
of  age,  and  national  mobilization  was  declared.  Following  the  con- 
clusion of  the  Geneva  Conference  on  Indochina  in  July,  Viet  Minh 
representatives  agreed  to  withdraw  their  troops  from  Cambodia. 
After  a  brief  rebellion  by  the  Khmer  Issarak  in  late  1954,  one  of 
its  principal  leaders,  Son  Ngoc  Thanh,  surrendered  in  response 
to  an  amnesty  decree,  but,  upon  denial  of  an  audience  with  Siha- 
nouk, he  departed  for  Thailand.  FARK  force  levels  were  47,000, 
but,  with  demobilization  after  Geneva,  this  dropped  to  36,000,  the 
approximate  level  at  which  it  was  to  be  maintained  for  the  next 
fifteen  years  except  during  periods  of  emergency. 

The  Second  Indochina  War,  1954-75 

In  May  1955,  the  United  States  and  Cambodia  signed  an  agree- 
ment providing  for  security  assistance  and  for  the  establishment 
of  a  thirty-person  MAAG.  During  the  next  eight  years,  until  the 
assistance  program  was  discontinued  at  Cambodian  request  in 
November  1963,  FARK  received  from  the  United  States  supplies 
and  equipment  worth  approximately  US$83.7  million,  in  addition 
to  military  budget  support.  In  the  meantime,  the  French  also  re- 
tained a  military  training  mission  in  Cambodia  that  was  to  remain 
until  1971.  FARK  traditions  and  doctrine  remained  French,  and 
there  was  some  incompatibility  with  United  States  military  doc- 
trine and  outlook. 

Although  the  United  States  undertook  a  substantial  security- 
assistance  program  in  Cambodia,  and  the  kingdom  was  included 
as  a  "protocol  state"  in  the  Southeast  Asia  Treaty  Organization 
(SEATO),  failure  to  obtain  more  concrete  assurances  of  defense 
assistance  motivated  Cambodia  to  adopt  a  neutralist  foreign  pol- 
icy. Subsequently  adopted  as  law,  this  policy  declared  that  Cam- 
bodia would  "abstain  from  military  or  ideological  alliances"  but 


250 


King  Norodom  Suramarit  troops  the  line  of 
FARK  military  units  at  his  coronation  in  March  1955. 

Courtesy  National  Archives 

would  retain  the  right  to  self-defense.  Cambodia  continued  to  be 
aware  of  the  serious  threat  to  its  independence  posed  by  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Vietnam  (North  Vietnam). 

FARK's  mission  thus  became  a  defensive  one,  that  is,  to  insure 
Cambodia's  territorial  integrity  within  the  framework  of  neutral- 
ity. The  FARK  high  command  remained  fairly  stable,  staffed  by 
a  limited  number  of  well- trained  personnel,  many  of  whom  had 
been  educated  abroad.  Ranking  officers,  however,  became  highly 
politicized,  if  not  subservient,  because  they  were  more  or  less  com- 
pelled by  Sihanouk  at  his  whim  to  perform  active  roles  in  national 
political  life.  Throughout  the  years  that  followed  the  Geneva  Con- 
ference, Sihanouk,  supreme  commander  of  FARK,  controlled 
national  policies  affecting  the  military  establishment,  and  FARK's 
operational  parameters  were  circumscribed  by  his  frequent  policy 
vacillations.  Because  of  this,  FARK  never  developed  as  an  effec- 
tive or  viable  military  organization. 

In  addition  to  the  Vietnamese  threat,  the  Cambodian  govern- 
ment perceived  a  menace  to  internal  stability  from  Son  Ngoc 
Thanh's  resurgent  antimonarchist  Khmer  Serei  (see  Appendix  B). 
Although  contemporary  observers  suggested  that  the  Khmer  Serei 
seemed  "to  be  more  of  a  nuisance  .  .  .  than  a  genuine  threat," 
the  group's  insurgent  activities  and  subversive  efforts  were  viewed 


251 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

with  increasing  alarm  by  Phnom  Penh.  In  March  1959,  for  exam- 
ple, the  provincial  governor  of  Siemreab,  General  Dap  Chhuon, 
a  former  Khmer  Issarak  leader  who  once  had  fought  alongside 
Sihanouk,  was  implicated  in  an  attempted  Khmer  Serei  uprising 
(known  at  the  time  as  the  Bangkok  Plot)  and  was  executed.  Siha- 
nouk believed  the  United  States  had  been  behind  the  plot,  and  his 
proclivity  for  assuming  complicity  between  Washington  and  the 
Khmer  Serei  became  a  particularly  significant  factor  a  few  years 
later.  In  approximately  1965  to  1966,  the  United  States  Military 
Assistance  Command — Vietnam  (MACV)  began  recruitment  for 
the  Studies  and  Operations  Group  and  civilian  irregular  defense 
groups  of  Khmer  Krom  (see  Appendix  B)  living  in  the  Mekong 
Delta,  many  of  whom  were  Khmer  Serei  members.  In  his  public 
pronouncements  regarding  Khmer  Serei  activity,  Sihanouk  charged 
that  the  group  had  originated  in  South  Vietnam  and  Thailand, 
and  had  the  backing  of  both  governments.  Over  the  years,  there 
were  coundess  Khmer  Serei  incidents,  followed  by  amnesties,  sur- 
renders, executions,  and  acrimonious  Cambodian  charges  against 
South  Vietnam,  Thailand,  and  the  United  States.  After  Sihanouk 
was  deposed  in  1970,  the  Lon  Nol  government  pardoned  some 
500  political  prisoners,  the  majority  of  whom  were  Khmer  Serei. 
Charges  surfaced  in  1987  that  during  his  rule  Sihanouk  had 
executed  as  many  as  1,000  Khmer  Serei  suspects. 

In  the  uneasy  peace  between  the  First  Indochina  War  and  the 
Second  Indochina  War,  a  number  of  incidents  occurred  on  Cam- 
bodia's border  with  South  Vietnam.  In  June  1958,  two  South  Viet- 
namese battalions  briefly  occupied  a  village  in  Stoeng  Treng 
Province,  and  Sihanouk  appealed  for  United  States  intervention. 
Receiving  no  response  that  satisfied  him,  Sihanouk  established 
diplomatic  relations  with  China  and  announced  that  this  action  was 
a  direct  consequence  of  South  Vietnam's  violation  of  Cambodian 
territory.  Cambodia  was  also  not  silent  during  the  early  stages  of 
border  violations  by  North  Vietnam.  In  1959  Phnom  Penh  com- 
plained that  North  Vietnamese  regulars  were  using  northeastern 
Cambodia  to  infiltrate  South  Vietnam.  Cambodia  made  concerted 
efforts  to  demonstrate  that  it  was  policing  its  eastern  borders,  but, 
although  the  incursions  were  publicly  admitted,  the  existence  of 
base  areas  was  not.  By  the  mid-1960s,  sites  along  Cambodia's 
eastern  borders  were  serving  as  bases  for  North  Vietnamese  and 
for  South  Vietnamese  communist,  or  Viet  Cong  (see  Appendix  B) 
forces  fighting  the  South  Vietnamese  government.  FARK,  re- 
strained by  Sihanouk's  policies,  which,  in  effect,  constituted  a 
modus  vivendi  with  the  intruders,  could  do  little  more  than  moni- 
tor these  activities.  The  continuation  of  border  incidents,  and 


252 


Armored  cars  pass  in  review  during  coronation 
parade  of  King  Norodom  Suramarit  in  March  1955 
Courtesy  National  Archives 

Sihanouk's  repeated  charges  of  United  States  complicity  with  the 
Khmer  Serei,  led  to  a  steady  deterioration  in  Cambodian- American 
relations. 

In  November  1963,  after  the  clandestine  Khmer  Serei  radio 
resumed  anti-Sihanouk  broadcasts  that  the  Cambodian  government 
alleged  were  beamed  from  Thailand  and  from  South  Vietnam  with 
transmitters  supplied  by  the  United  States,  Sihanouk  terminated 
the  economic  and  security  assistance  agreements  with  Washing- 
ton. He  also  demanded  the  departure  from  Cambodia  of  all  non- 
diplomatic  United  States  government  personnel.  The  final  rupture 
in  diplomatic  relations  came  two  years  later,  after  Cambodia 
filed  a  complaint  in  the  UN  Security  Council  against  the  United 
States  and  South  Vietnam  for  their  "repeated  acts  of  aggression 
against  Cambodia."  Relations  were  formally  terminated  May  3, 
1965. 

Although  still  receiving  French  military  assistance  and  training 
(a  program  that  was  to  continue  until  1972),  Cambodia  began 
soliciting  and  accepting  military  assistance  from  communist  coun- 
tries as  well,  after  the  termination  of  United  States  aid.  In  1963 
FARK  received  four  Soviet  MiG  aircraft  at  the  beginning  of  a  pro- 
gram in  which  China  also  joined.  The  inevitable  results  of  a  variety 
of  suppliers  were  mixed  equipment  inventories. 


253 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

In  1966  Sihanouk  secretly  granted  access  to  the  deep-water  port 
of  Sihanoukville  (later  called  Kampong  Saom),  in  western  Kam- 
pot  Province,  to  the  North  Vietnamese.  With  the  complicity  of  rank- 
ing FARK  officers,  Sihanoukville  became  a  main  entrepot  for  North 
Vietnamese  military  supplies  from  China  and  from  the  Soviet 
Union.  Armaments  were  then  transported  to  North  Vietnamese 
and  Viet  Cong  sanctuaries  on  the  border  with  South  Vietnam,  iron- 
ically over  the  "Friendship  Highway"  built  with  United  States  aid 
and  sometimes  in  FARK  trucks  supplied  as  part  of  the  United  States 
security-assistance  program.  This  effective  supply  route  enabled 
the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet  Cong  to  stockpile  substantial 
amounts  of  armaments  and  equipment  for  the  1968  Tet  Offensive 
against  the  Saigon  government.  FARK  profited  from  armaments 
pilfered  from  the  Vietnamese  shipments,  and  suborned  FARK 
officers  derived  personal  advantage  from  the  Sihanoukville  traffic 
through  fees,  bribes,  and  other  special  arrangements. 

In  1967  a  peasant  uprising  broke  out  in  the  Samlot  district  of 
Batdambang  Province.  Its  significance  was  not  appreciated  immedi- 
ately. At  the  time,  Sihanouk  attributed  the  attacks,  which  first 
occurred  in  about  January,  to  "the  Khmer  Viet  Minh"  (see  Appen- 
dix B),  whom  he  also  labeled  "Khmer  Rouge"  (see  Appendix  B) 
to  distinguish  them  from  the  "Khmer  Bleu"  (see  Appendix  B). 
Sihanouk  vacillated  in  placing  the  blame  for  the  unrest,  however, 
and  later  charged  the  "Thai  patriotic  front"  with  being  its  insti- 
gators. Acting  on  his  orders,  FARK  harshly  suppressed  the  Bat- 
dambang insurgents,  who  had  acted  spontaneously,  and  not  at 
Khmer  Rouge  direction.  Although  Sihanouk  announced  two 
months  later  that  the  Batdambang  rebellion  was  "completely  at 
an  end,"  there  were  subsequent  references  to  continuing  Khmer 
Rouge  activity  in  the  countryside. 

The  uprising  convinced  the  Khmer  communists  (including  a 
former  school  teacher  named  Saloth  Sar,  later  to  emerge  under  the 
alias  Pol  Pot)  who  earlier  had  gone  underground,  that  the  time 
was  at  hand  to  escalate  the  armed  struggle  against  the  Phnom  Penh 
government.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  Revolutionary  Army  of  Kam- 
puchea (RAK — see  Appendix  B)  came  into  being.  The  Khmer 
Rouge  dated  its  own  founding  from  January  17,  1968.  RAK  lead- 
ers, including  Pol  Pot,  who  had  just  returned  from  a  prolonged 
visit  to  China,  retreated  to  the  jungle  and  mountains  of  Rotanokiri 
Province  (Ratanakiri)  in  northeastern  Cambodia.  There  they  hoped 
to  exploit  the  disaffection  of  the  Khmer  Loeu  (see  Appendix  B) 
over  the  policies  of  the  Phnom  Penh  government  concerning  taxa- 
tion, forced  labor,  and  the  resettlement  of  lowland  Khmers  in  the 
Khmer  Loeu  areas.  For  the  next  two  and  one-half  years,  the  newly 


254 


National  Security 


formed  RAK  remained  small  (estimates  varied  from  400  to  2,000 
personnel),  and  poorly  equipped  with  captured  weapons.  The 
Khmer  Rouge  found  that,  in  spite  of  the  Samlot  rebellion,  discon- 
tent against  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh  was  then  insuffi- 
cient to  attract  large  numbers  of  people  to  the  rigors  of  an  armed 
insurgency.  As  for  external  support,  there  was  no  move  on  the  part 
of  Hanoi  to  provide  military  assistance  to  the  Khmer  Rouge  be- 
cause such  action  would  have  alienated  Sihanouk's  government 
and  would  have  imperiled  continued  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet 
Cong  access  to  Cambodian  territory  as  well  as  their  use  of  the  port 
of  Sihanoukville. 

In  1969  the  United  States  undertook  the  first  of  two  bombing 
campaigns  against  enemy  targets  in  Cambodian  territory.  Code- 
named  the  Menu  series,  these  air  operations  consisted  of  tactical 
strikes  against  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong  base  areas  on  the 
Cambodian- Vietnamese  border.  They  partially  dislodged  the  North 
Vietnamese  and  the  Viet  Cong  and  drove  them  more  deeply  into 
Cambodia  in  quest  of  safer  havens.  This  brought  FARK  elements 
into  more  frequent  hostile  contact  with  the  communists,  and  there 
were  reports  of  FARK  forces'  being  involved  in  joint  operations 
with  South  Vietnamese  forces  against  the  North  Vietnamese  and 
the  Viet  Cong.  Sihanouk  became  increasingly  distressed  with  these 
developments;  his  attitude  toward  the  communist  Vietnamese 
changed,  and  authorization  for  continued  use  of  Sihanoukville  was 
terminated.  In  April,  speaking  in  Rotanokiri  Province,  Sihanouk 
stated  that  "to  deal  with  the  Viet  Cong  and  Viet  Minh,"  he  had 
ordered  General  Lon  Nol  "to  give  up  the  defensive  spirit  and  adopt 
an  offensive  spirit."  Sihanouk  announced  during  a  press  confer- 
ence on  June  11,  1969  that  "...  at  present  there  is  war  in 
Rotanokiri  [province]  between  Cambodia  and  Vietnam." 

Sihanouk  left  Cambodia  for  medical  treatment  in  France  in  Janu- 
ary 1970.  Citing  disagreement  over  economic  and  administrative 
matters,  after  week-long  anticommunist  rioting  in  Phnom  Penh, 
the  Cambodian  National  Assembly  on  March  18  passed  a  unani- 
mous vote  of  nonconfidence  in  Sihanouk  and  replaced  him  as  chief 
of  state  (see  The  March  1970  Coup  d'Etat,  ch.  1).  Although  Siha- 
nouk's deposition  was  nominally  a  parliamentary  action,  the  leaders 
of  the  participants  consisted  primarily  of  FARK  officers,  headed 
by  Lon  Nol,  who  had  been  the  prime  minister  since  the  previous 
August  (and  who,  Sihanouk  had  once  suggested,  would  be  his  like- 
liest successor).  The  coup  was  bloodless,  although  FARK  contin- 
gents were  on  the  alert  in  Phnom  Penh  and  took  control  of  key 
installations,  such  as  the  airport  and  the  radio  station. 


255 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


At  the  time  Sihanouk  was  deposed,  FARK,  soon  to  be  renamed 
the  Khmer  National  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Nationales 
Khmeres— FANK— see  Appendix  B),  had  35,000  to  40,000  per- 
sonnel, organized  for  the  most  part  as  ground  forces.  The  Lon  Nol 
government  repeatedly  sought  negotiations  for  a  peaceful  with- 
drawal of  the  North  Vietnamese  and  the  Viet  Cong  forces  from 
its  territory.  These  overtures  were  rejected,  and  in  April  the  Viet- 
namese communists  began  moving  out  of  their  sanctuaries  and 
deeper  into  Cambodia,  in  efforts  to  preserve  their  lines  of  com- 
munication and  to  maintain  the  corridor  to  the  port  of  Sihanouk- 
ville.  President  Richard  M.  Nixon  spoke  on  April  30,  1970  to  the 
American  nation,  and  said  that  "thousands  of  their  [North  Viet- 
namese and  Viet  Cong]  soldiers  are  invading  the  country  from  the 
sanctuaries  and  they  are  encircling  the  capital."  Lon  Nol,  in  the 
meantime,  had  called  up  military  reserves,  had  requested  UN  in- 
tervention, and,  while  reiterating  Cambodia's  position  of  neutral- 
ity, had  issued  a  call  for  international  assistance. 

Between  April  29  and  May  1,  1970,  South  Vietnamese  and 
United  States  ground  forces  drove  into  Cambodia's  border  areas 
in  a  determined  bid  to  overrun  and  to  destroy  North  Vietnamese 
and  Viet  Cong  logistical  depots  and  sanctuaries.  There  also  was 
hope  at  United  States  MACV  headquarters  that  the  offensive  would 
result  in  the  capture  of  the  Central  Office  for  South  Vietnam,  the 
Viet  Cong  headquarters  for  directing  the  war  against  the  Saigon 
government.  The  operation  resulted  in  the  capture  of  vast  quanti- 
ties of  enemy  materiel  and  it  bought  time  for  Washington  and  Sai- 
gon to  proceed  with  ' 1  Vietnamization, ' '  the  process  of  turning  over 
the  conduct  of  the  war  to  the  South  Vietnamese  government.  For 
the  shaky  Lon  Nol  government  in  Phnom  Penh,  however,  the 
results  of  the  incursion  were  destabilizing  and  far-reaching.  In 
retreating  before  United  States  and  South  Vietnamese  troops,  North 
Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong  forces  penetrated  farther  west  into  Cam- 
bodian territory,  overrunning  government  outposts  as  they  went. 
Soon  all  of  northeastern  Cambodia  had  fallen  to  the  North  Viet- 
namese or  to  the  Viet  Cong,  who  then  proceeded  to  turn  the  cap- 
tured areas  over  to  the  Khmer  insurgents  and  to  forge  them  into 
a  full-fledged  revolutionary  army. 

To  help  hard-pressed  FANK,  Nixon  laid  down  guidelines  for 
United  States  assistance  to  Cambodia,  promising,  among  other 
things,  to  turn  over  to  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh  equipment 
captured  during  the  incursion,  and  to  "provide  military  assis- 
tance ...  in  the  form  of  small  arms  and  relatively  unsophisticated 
equipment  in  types  and  quantities  suitable  for  their  army."  Thus 
began  a  structured  military  assistance  program,  supplementing  the 


256 


National  Security 


ad  hoc  support  begun  shortly  before  the  incursion,  that  was  to  total 
US$1.18  billion  by  the  fall  of  the  Lon  Nol  government  in  April 
1975.  Although  all  United  States  troops  were  withdrawn  from  Cam- 
bodian territory,  South  Vietnamese  forces  were  accorded  "auto- 
matic authority"  to  operate  in  Cambodia  in  a  sixteen-kilometer 
corridor  along  the  frontier. 

The  Lon  Nol  government  very  shortly  afterwards  declared  mar- 
tial law  and  total  mobilization,  and  it  began  expansion  of  its  army. 
United  States  government  studies  conducted  shortly  before  Siha- 
nouk's deposition  had  expressed  serious  reservations  about  the  capa- 
bilities of  the  government  forces,  noting  the  "lack  of  combat 
experience,  equipment  deficiencies,  ....  lack  of  mobility,"  and 
citing  "incompetent  and  corrupt  officers"  as  the  "greatest  short- 
coming." 

The  same  officers  were,  however,  retained  by  FANK  and  their 
inadequacy  rapidly  became  apparent  as  military  rosters  were  pad- 
ded with  non-existent  "phantom  troops."  United  States  advisers 
attempting  to  keep  track  of  FANK's  development  were  constantly 
hampered  by  the  difficulty  of  accurately  estimating  the  number  of 
Cambodian  troops.  (Accurate  numbers  were  important  because 
the  United  States  was  then  providing  assistance  for  FANK's  mili- 
tary pay  and  allowances.)  United  States  Senate  staff  investigators 
reported  that  United  States  officials  acknowledged  in  January  1972 
that  the  Khmer  Republic's  military  strength  figures  were  "gross- 
ly exaggerated"  by  at  least  10  percent.  The  Senate  report  concluded 
there  was  "no  greater  mystery  in  Cambodia  than  the  size  of  the 
Cambodian  Government's  armed  forces."  In  December  1972,  the 
information  minister  of  the  newly  proclaimed  Khmer  Republic  an- 
nounced that  100,000  troops  were  found  to  be  "nonexistent." 
According  to  the  United  States  secretary  of  state's  report  to  the 
Congress  for  the  years  1969  and  1970,  FANK  grew  "from  under 
40,000  in  March  1970  to  some  200,000  in  January  1971."  In  real- 
ity, FANK  levels  probably  never  reached  such  a  high  number,  and 
many  of  its  new  soldiers  were  youthful  and  inexperienced. 

Limited  basic  training  of  the  inductees,  some  of  it  in  Thailand 
and  in  South  Vietnam,  began  almost  immediately  after  the  in- 
troduction of  martial  law.  Such  training,  however,  could  not  satisfy 
FANK's  pressing  need  to  teach  peasant  farmers  to  man  the  equip- 
ment provided  by  the  United  States,  to  fight  effectively  in  sizable 
units,  and  to  comprehend  modern  military  doctrine. 

In  spite  of  a  steady  infusion  of  United  States  security  assistance 
and  the  influx  of  new  FANK  personnel,  the  government  forces  were 
unable  to  hold  their  own  against  their  adversaries.  Because  much 
of  the  country  remained  under  North  Vietnamese  control  after  the 


257 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

withdrawal  of  United  States  and  South  Vietnamese  troops,  initial 
FANK  strategy  focused  on  holding  the  heartland  of  Cambodia  south 
of  a  line  of  demarcation  dubbed  the  "Lon  Nol  Line."  This  strat- 
egy conceded  about  half  the  country  to  the  enemy,  but  it  was  the 
heavily  forested,  sparsely  populated,  northern  half.  If  the  Lon  Nol 
Line  could  be  held,  the  government  would  control  the  southern 
half  with  most  of  the  population  and  all  of  the  rich,  rice- growing 
areas. 

To  defend  this  territory,  FANK  unleashed  its  two  most  ambi- 
tious offensives:  Chenla  I,  in  August  1970,  and  Chenla  II,  in  Au- 
gust 1971.  Both  had  as  their  objectives  the  reopening  of  Route  6 
to  Kampong  Thum  and  the  reassertion  of  government  control  over 
this  fertile  agricultural  area.  Both  operations  failed.  Chenla  I  stalled 
short  of  its  objective  in  the  face  of  fierce  resistance  from  the  North 
Vietnamese  Ninth  Division.  FANK  units  were  then  withdrawn  to 
protect  the  capital  from  enemy  commando  teams.  Chenla  II  was 
successful  in  securing  its  initial  goals,  and  FANK  columns  from 
north  and  south  met  jubilantly  on  Route  6  along  the  way  to  Kam- 
pong Thum.  As  the  government  forces  celebrated,  however,  their 
old  nemesis,  the  North  Vietnamese  Ninth  Division,  tore  into  the 
extended  FANK  lines  with  ferocity,  slaughtering  many  of  them 
and  leaving  the  rest  cut  off  and  compelled  to  fight  their  way  back 
to  their  own  lines  as  best  they  could.  Former  FANK  commander 
General  Sat  Sutsakhan  noted  ruefully  about  Chenla  II  after  the 
war  that,  "In  this  operation  FANK  lost  some  of  its  best  units  of 
infantry  as  well  as  a  good  part  of  its  armor  and  a  great  deal  of  trans- 
port, both  military  and  civil." 

The  North  Vietnamese,  however,  were  neither  the  only,  nor  the 
most  determined  adversary  with  whom  FANK  had  to  deal.  A  far 
more  lethal  threat  was  soon  posed  by  a  revitalized  Khmer  Rouge- 
dominated  force  that  had  evolved  considerably  since  its  days  as  the 
ragtag,  poorly  armed  band  of  irregulars  known  then  as  the  RAK. 
The  development  of  the  RAK  had  owed  much  to  the  opportunism 
of  the  Khmer  Rouge  leaders,  who  had  been  able  to  transform  a 
forlorn  communist  insurgency  with  no  chance  of  succeeding  in  the 
late  1960s,  into  a  war  of  national  liberation  headed  by  the  coun- 
try's most  eminent  nationalist,  Sihanouk. 

From  Beijing,  where  he  had  been  stranded  by  the  coup  that  de- 
posed him,  Sihanouk  in  1970  announced  the  formation  of  a  Royal 
Government  of  National  Union  of  Kampuchea  (Gouvernement 
Royal  d' Union  Nationale  du  Kampuchea — GRUNK — see  Appen- 
dix B).  This  government,  he  said,  would  be  under  the  leadership 
of  a  broad  umbrella  organization,  the  National  United  Front  of 
Kampuchea  (Front  Uni  National  du  Kampuchea — FUNK — see 


258 


Insurgents  of  the  KPNLAF  on  patrol 
near  the  Thai-Cambodian  border 
Courtesy  Frank  Tatu 

Appendix  B).  The  prestige  of  Sihanouk's  name  thus  helped  the 
Khmer  Rouge  in  their  recruitment  effort.  Rural  peasant  volun- 
teers believed  they  were  joining  a  broad-based  national  resistance 
movement,  headed  by  the  prince,  against  an  ineffectual  puppet 
regime  in  Phnom  Penh.  Several  groups  also  rallied  to  the  broad 
appeal  of  the  GRUNK/FUNK.  Such  groups  included  the  pro- 
Sihanouk  Khmer  Rumdo  (see  Appendix  B),  the  Khmer  Viet  Minh, 
and  the  Khmer  Loeu. 

To  accommodate  the  disparate  elements  that  were  rallying  to 
the  resistance  cause,  the  RAK  was  renamed  the  Cambodian  Peo- 
ple's National  Liberation  Armed  Forces  (CPNLAF — see  Appen- 
dix B).  As  this  force  grew  in  size  and  in  proficiency,  it  was  able 
to  relieve  North  Vietnamese  units  of  their  combat  burden  in  Cam- 
bodia. By  1973  there  were  reportedly  no  more  than  5,000  North 
Vietnamese  combat  troops  in  Cambodia,  and  of  this  number  only 
2,000  to  3,000  were  deployed  against  FANK  units. 

After  the  Chenla  campaigns,  FANK  was  unable  to  regain  the 
offensive,  and  its  operations  became  a  series  of  hard-fought  defen- 
sive actions  against  an  enemy  whose  momentum  could  not  be 
stayed.  Individual  unit  valor  and  fleeting  tactical  successes  did  lit- 
tle to  relieve  the  unbroken  string  of  FANK  setbacks — overrun  out- 
posts, annihilated  battalions,  cut-off  columns,  plummeting  morale, 


259 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

exhausted  supplies,  steadily  shrinking  government  territory,  and 
enemy  units  that  were  drawing  ever  closer  around  Phnom  Penh. 
A  harbinger  of  future  trends  was  discernible  as  early  as  Novem- 
ber 1972,  two-and-one-half  years  before  the  final  defeat.  FANK 
strategists  at  that  time  acknowledged  the  waning  capability  of  their 
armed  forces  and  redrew  the  Lon  Nol  Line.  The  new  line  of  demar- 
cation signified  a  profound  strategic  realignment  because  it  con- 
ceded most  of  the  country,  including  the  rich  rice- growing  areas 
around  the  Tonle  Sap,  to  the  enemy.  In  accordance  with  the 
redrawn  Lon  Nol  line,  FANK  was  committed  to  defend  no  more 
than  the  triangular  corner  of  southeastern  Cambodia,  which  held 
a  majority  of  the  population  and  was  bounded  generally  by  Route 
4  from  Phnom  Penh  to  Kampong  Saom  on  the  west,  and  by  Route 
1  from  Phnom  Penh  to  the  Vietnamese  border  on  the  east.  The 
apex  of  the  triangle  passed  just  north  of  Odongk,  the  former  royal 
capital  that  was  to  be  the  scene  of  heavy  fighting  later  in  the  war. 
Even  this  retrenchment,  however,  turned  out  to  be  impractical, 
as  successive  engagements  failed  to  dislodge  the  enemy  troops  south 
of  the  new  defense  line,  and  FANK  increasingly  found  itself  hard 
pressed  from  that  direction  as  well. 

By  1973  United  States  Department  of  State  sources,  possibly  un- 
derestimating, noted  that  the  Khmer  Rouge-dominated  CPNLAF 
controlled  about  60  percent  of  Cambodia's  territory  and  25  per- 
cent of  the  population.  Despite  a  sustained  United  States  bomb- 
ing campaign  that  year  to  blunt  the  steady  advance  of  the  CPNLAF 
and  to  relieve  pressure  on  FANK,  the  Khmer  Rouge  insurgent 
forces  were  able  to  absorb  their  losses,  to  maintain  the  initiative, 
and  to  subject  an  increasingly  demoralized  and  cornered  FANK 
to  unremitting  pressure. 

The  denouement  for  FANK  and  for  the  Khmer  Republic  began 
on  New  Year's  Day  1975  when  the  CPNLAF  unleashed  its  final 
offensive.  As  winter  turned  into  spring,  the  enemy  battered  the 
defenses  of  Phnom  Penh  from  every  direction.  Routes  into  the  city 
were  cut,  reopened,  and  cut  again;  river  convoys  were  forced  to 
run  a  gauntlet  of  hostile  fire  to  reach  the  beleaguered  capital  and 
finally  could  no  longer  break  through;  United  States  aircraft,  in 
a  forlorn  attempt  to  maintain  a  lifeline  into  the  city,  set  up  an  airlift 
from  bases  in  Thailand.  The  effort  worked  briefly,  until  the  air- 
port itself  was  interdicted  by  hostile  rocket  fire.  By  early  April, 
Phnom  Penh  was  surrounded  on  all  sides,  and  its  defenses  were 
crumbling.  FANK  attempts  to  break  out  of  the  encircled  city  stalled 
in  the  face  of  intense  Khmer  Rouge  firepower.  Government  units 
were  decimated,  exhausted,  and  out  of  supplies;  finally,  they  were 
unable  to  hold  out  any  longer.  The  fall  of  the  capital  on  April  17 


260 


National  Security 

marked  the  demise  of  the  Khmer  Republic  and  the  total  defeat  of 
FANK,  which  in  the  end  had  been  totally  outclassed  and  outfought, 
not  by  an  army  of  guerrillas — that  phenomenon  so  intensively 
studied  during  the  period,  but  by  a  tough,  disciplined,  regular  force 
in  a  conventional  war  of  movement,  by  fire  and  by  maneuver. 

Military  Developments  under  the  Khmer  Rouge 
Khmer  Rouge  Armed  Forces 

The  68,000-member  Khmer  Rouge-dominated  CPNLAF  force 
that  completed  its  conquest  of  Cambodia  in  April  1975  was  a  highly 
dedicated  and  disciplined  peasant  army,  trained  in  the  rigors  of 
guerrilla  warfare  as  well  as  in  full-scale  combat.  Its  shadowy  in- 
tellectual leaders,  adhering  to  the  Maoist  principles  of  guerrilla 
warfare,  had  taken  their  core  "fish"  from  only  three  scattered  com- 
panies, when  optimum  conditions  had  been  presented  to  them  in 
1970,  and  had  propelled  them  through  the  "water"  of  the  people 
in  the  countryside,  while  collecting  thousands  of  proselytes  on  the 
way.  These  leaders  were  fiercely  independent,  at  first  grudgingly 
accepting  training  and  arms  from  the  Vietnamese — the  hated  tradi- 
tional enemy — while  on  occasion  violently  turning  on  these  nomi- 
nal allies,  behavior  that  presaged  the  fatal  conflict  that  was  to  come. 
When  most  North  Vietnamese  and  Viet  Cong  combat  divisions 
had  withdrawn  from  the  field  in  Cambodia  at  the  end  of  1972,  the 
RAK  had  experienced  phenomenal  growth,  reaching  an  estimated 
50,000.  Its  personnel  continued  to  arm  themselves  by  capturing 
or  purchasing  weaponry  from  FANK.  The  insurgents  marched 
under  the  banners  of  nationalism,  of  legitimacy,  and  of  national 
preservation — the  escutcheon  of  Sihanouk.  In  the  end,  they  defeated 
an  army  which  had  a  strength  on  paper  of  230,000,  but  which  pos- 
sibly numbered  as  few  as  150,000.  FANK  had  been  armed  by  the 
United  States  with  military  weaponry  and  equipment  worth 
US$1.18  billion,  an  abundance  of  materiel  that  now  fell  into  the 
hands  of  the  CPNLAF. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  the 
CPNLAF — now  renamed  the  RAK  once  again,  under  its  long-time 
commander  and  then  Minister  of  Defense  Son  Sen,  had  230  bat- 
talions in  35  to  40  regiments  and  in  12  to  14  brigades.  The  com- 
mand structure  in  units  was  based  on  three-person  committees  in 
which  the  political  commissar  ranked  higher  than  the  military  com- 
mander and  his  deputy.  The  country  was  divided  into  zones  and 
special  sectors,  the  boundaries  of  which  changed  slighdy  over  the 
years.  Within  these  areas,  the  RAK's  first  task  upon  "liberation," 


261 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

as  a  calculated  policy,  was  the  peremptory  execution  of  former 
FANK  officers  and  of  their  families,  without  trial  or  fanfare. 

The  next  priority  was  to  consolidate  into  a  national  army  the 
separate  forces  that  were  operating  more  or  less  autonomously  in 
the  various  zones.  The  Khmer  Rouge  units  were  commanded  by 
zonal  secretaries  who  were  simultaneously  party  and  military 
officers,  some  of  whom  were  said  to  have  manifested  "warlord 
characteristics."  Troops  from  one  zone  frequently  were  sent  to 
another  zone  to  enforce  discipline.  It  was  such  efforts  to  discipline 
zonal  secretaries  and  their  dissident  or  ideologically  impure  cadres 
that  gave  rise  to  the  purges  that  were  to  decimate  RAK  ranks,  to 
undermine  the  morale  of  the  victorious  army,  and  to  generate  the 
seeds  of  rebellion.  As  journalist  Elizabeth  Becker  noted,  "in  the 
end  paranoia,  not  enemies,  was  responsible  for  bringing  down  the 
regime." 

Khmer-Vietnamese  Border  Tensions 

Border  tensions  between  Cambodia  and  Vietnam  (aside  from 
traditional  Khmer  fear  and  hatred  of  the  Vietnamese)  goes  back 
to  the  controversy  over  the  Brevie  Line,  drawn  in  1939  by  French 
colonial  administrators  and  considered  by  Vietnam  to  be  the  offi- 
cial international  boundary  between  the  two  countries.  For  years 
after  the  French  departure,  various  Cambodian  governments 
attempted  to  negotiate  the  return  of  Cochinchina — known  in  Cam- 
bodia as  Kampuchea  Krom,  which  they  maintained  was  a  French 
colony,  not  a  protectorate,  that  had  been  promised  to  Cambodia 
by  early  French  colonial  authorities.  Negotiations  to  solve  the  border 
dispute  were  held  between  1975  and  1977,  but  they  made  no 
progress  and  were  suspended.  The  Khmer  Rouge  also  felt  an  abid- 
ing distrust  of  the  Vietnamese,  who,  they  believed,  had  never 
renounced  their  determination  to  incorporate  Cambodia  into  a 
larger,  Hanoi-dominated  Indochina  federation. 

Clashes  between  the  RAK  and  Vietnamese  communist  forces 
began  in  Cambodia  as  early  as  1970,  when  there  were  reported 
incidents  of  Khmer  Rouge  units  firing  on  North  Vietnamese. 
Reports  continued  of  engagements  of  growing  intensity,  particu- 
larly after  1973.  The  North  Vietnamese,  because  they  urgently 
needed  sanctuaries  in  Cambodia  in  order  to  pursue  their  war  in 
South  Vietnam,  chose  to  ignore  the  incidents  and  were  still  pre- 
pared, at  the  end  of  Cambodia's  long  civil  war,  to  send  sapper  and 
artillery  groups  to  help  the  CPNLAF  take  Phnom  Penh.  After  the 
communist  victories  of  April  and  May  1975,  clashes  between  Viet- 
namese and  Khmer  Rouge  units  centered  on  the  border.  Skirmish- 
ing began  about  a  month  after  the  fall  of  Phnom  Penh,  when  Hanoi 


262 


National  Security 


accused  the  Khmer  Rouge  of  trying  to  seize  Phu  Quoc  Island  and 
of  making  forays  into  several  Vietnamese  border  provinces. 

Ironically,  some  analysts  believe  that  the  Khmer  Rouge  would 
have  made  more  noise  about  their  offshore  claims  had  it  not  been 
for  the  destruction  by  the  United  States  of  their  air  force  and  much 
of  their  navy  during  the  Mayaguez  incident.  On  May  12,  1975,  a 
Khmer  Rouge  sector  commander,  zealously  asserting  Cambodia's 
territorial  rights  in  the  Gulf  of  Thailand,  boarded  and  captured 
the  American  container  ship  S.S.  Mayaguez,  which  carried  a  crew 
of  forty,  near  the  island  of  Wai  (which  later  fell  under  Vietnamese 
jurisdiction).  Failing  to  receive  a  timely  response  to  demands  for 
return  of  the  ship,  Washington  notified  the  UN  and  invoked  the 
right  to  self-defense  under  Article  51  of  the  UN  Charter.  The  en- 
suing four-day  engagement  involved  U.S.  bombing  raids  on  the 
airfield  at  Ream  and  on  the  port  of  Kampong  Saom,  as  well  as 
naval  barrages  and  a  Marine  assault  on  the  nearby  island  of  Kaoh 
Tang.  On  orders  from  the  Khmer  Rouge  leadership,  the  Mayaguez 
crew  was  released  unharmed  and  was  returned  to  United  States 
custody. 

Deteriorating  relations  between  Cambodia  and  Vietnam  reached 
a  crescendo  of  recrimination  when,  on  December  31 ,  1977,  Radio 
Phnom  Penh,  citing  "ferocious  and  barbarous  aggression  launched 
by  the  Vietnamese  aggressor  forces  against  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea," denounced  the  "so-called  Socialist  Republic  of  Vietnam" 
and  announced  the  "temporary  severance"  of  diplomatic  relations. 
Rhetorical  exchanges  between  the  two  sides  became  more  acrimoni- 
ous, and  border  skirmishes  involving  Cambodian  and  Vietnamese 
units  erupted  into  pitched  battles  in  the  summer  and  the  fall  of 
1978.  Major  engagements  were  reported  in  the  Parrot's  Beak  (part 
of  Svay  Rieng  Province),  in  the  Fishhook  (part  of  Kampong  Cham 
Province),  and  in  Rotanokiri  Province.  In  an  effort  to  court  world 
public  opinion,  in  September  1978  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs 
of  Democratic  Kampuchea  published  its  so-called  "Black  Book," 
the  Black  Paper:  Facts  and  Evidence  of  Aggression  and  Annexation  Against 
Kampuchea.  The  tract  denounced  Vietnam's  "true  nature"  as  that 
of  "aggressor,  annexationist  and  swallower  of  other  countries' 
territories." 

In  November  1978,  rhetoric  was  succeeded  by  full-scale  action: 
Vietnamese  forces  launched  a  sustained  operation  on  Cambodian 
soil  in  the  area  of  Snuol  and  Memot  (both  in  Kracheh  Province). 
This  action  cleared  a  liberated  zone  where  anti-Khmer  Rouge  Cam- 
bodians could  launch  a  broad-based  political  movement  that  would 
offer  an  alternative  to  the  odious  Pol  Pot  regime.  Proclamation  of 
this  movement,  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  National  United 


263 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Front  for  National  Salvation  (KNUFNS — see  Appendix  B),  took 
place  in  a  rubber-plantation  clearing  on  December  2,  1978,  amid 
rigid  security  provided  by  heavily  armed  Vietnamese  units  rein- 
forced with  air-defense  weapons. 

Vietnamese  Invasion  of  Cambodia 

The  public  unveiling  of  the  KNUFNS  dashed  any  remaining 
expectations  that  Cambodian- Vietnamese  disagreements  could  be 
solved  without  further  armed  conflict,  because  the  Hanoi-backed 
front  openly  called  for  the  ouster  of  the  "reactionary  Pol  Pot-Ieng 
Sary  clique."  Because  the  KNUFNS  was  far  too  weak  to  topple 
the  regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  virtually  the  entire  com- 
bat burden  would  fall  on  Vietnamese  forces,  which,  for  this  pur- 
pose, had  been  steadily  building  up  troop  strength  on  the  border 
during  the  preceding  months. 

Nervous  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  in  Phnom  Penh  did  not  have  long 
to  wait  after  the  KNUFNS  announcement,  for,  on  December  25, 
1978,  Hanoi  launched  its  offensive  with  twelve  to  fourteen  divi- 
sions and  three  Khmer  regiments  (that  later  would  form  the  nucleus 
of  the  KPRAF),  a  total  invasion  force  comprising  some  100,000 
people.  Vietnamese  units  struck  across  the  Cambodian  frontier  in 
five  spearheads  that  thrust  initially  into  northeastern  Cambodia. 
One  task  force  drove  west  from  Buon  Me  Thuot  (in  Dac  Lac 
Province,  Vietnam)  along  Route  13  and  Route  14  to  capture 
Kracheh  City  (the  capital  of  Kracheh  Province).  A  second  column 
attacked  west  from  Pleiku  (in  Gia  Lai-Cong  Turn  Province,  Viet- 
nam), and  followed  the  circuitous  Route  19  to  capture  Stoeng  Treng 
City  (the  capital  of  Stoeng  Treng  Province).  In  thus  concentrat- 
ing its  initial  thrusts  in  the  northeast,  Hanoi  may  have  had  several 
objectives.  One  of  these  may  have  been  to  capture  quickly  sub- 
stantial expanses  of  the  Cambodian  territory  that  had  been  an  early 
spawning  ground  for  the  Khmer  Rouge  and  its  fledgling  RAK  in 
the  late  1960s.  The  remoteness  of  this  region  would  have  rendered 
it  difficult  to  dislodge  Vietnamese  forces,  no  matter  what  the  out- 
come of  the  war.  An  early  occupation  also  would  have  preempted 
Khmer  Rouge  units,  if  they  were  pressed  harder  elsewhere,  from 
falling  back  to  this  area  where  they  might  have  enjoyed  a  measure 
of  public  support.  The  attacks  in  the  northeast  also  may  have  been 
intended  to  confuse  the  leadership  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  about 
where  the  full  brunt  of  the  Vietnamese  offensive  would  fall. 

Khmer  Rouge  commanders  were  not  deceived  by  the  Vietnamese 
thrusts  toward  Kracheh  and  Stoeng  Treng,  however,  and  made 
no  attempt  to  reinforce  the  northeast.  Instead,  they  erected  their 
main  defense  line  in  an  arc  across  the  flat,  rice-growing  plains  of 


264 


KPNLAF  insurgents  cross  a  stream  in  northwestern  Cambodia 

Courtesy  Frank  Tatu 

southeastern  Cambodia,  astride  the  most  probable  Vietnamese 
axes  of  advance.  Their  calculation  of  Vietnamese  intentions 
proved  correct,  as  Hanoi's  forces  unleashed  the  full  weight  of 
their  offensive  in  this  area.  From  Vietnam's  Tay  Ninh  Province, 
heavily  armed  Vietnamese  units  drove  along  the  axis  of  Route  7 
toward  their  objective,  the  river  port  of  Kampong  Cham.  Far- 
ther south,  Vietnamese  units  with  air  support  attacked  along 
Route  1 ,  in  the  direction  of  Phumi  Prek  Khsay  (also  known  as 
Neak  Luong),  the  Mekong  River  gateway  to  Phnom  Penh.  The 
fifth  and  final  Vietnamese  spearhead  drove  west  from  Ha  Tien, 
Vietnam,  to  capture  the  ports  of  Kampot  and  Kampong  Saom, 
and  thus  to  prevent  the  resupply  by  sea  of  retreating  Khmer 
Rouge  forces. 

Resistance  to  the  invading  Vietnamese  units  by  the  RAK  could 
have  been  suicidal,  given  the  disregard  for  human  life  previously 
displayed  by  the  forces  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Instead,  heavy 
fighting  was  localized.  Major  engagements  were  fought  before  Kam- 
pong Cham  and  Phumi  Prek  Khsay  and  at  Tani,  inland  from  the 
coast  of  Kampot  Province.  RAK  units,  already  deprived  of  ex- 
perienced commanders  by  party  purges,  withered  under  sustained 
pounding  by  Vietnamese  artillery  and  airstrikes,  and  many  of  them 
simply  scattered  before  the  Vietnamese  offensive,  some  to  regroup 
later  in  western  Cambodia. 


265 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

By  January  5,  1979,  the  main  Vietnamese  spearheads  had  driven 
to  the  eastern  banks  of  the  Mekong  River.  Incomplete  evidence 
hints  that  the  Vietnamese  offensive  originally  may  have  intended 
to  go  no  farther. 

The  way  to  Phnom  Penh  lay  open,  however,  because  the  Khmer 
Rouge  units  were  falling  back.  Vietnamese  forces  paused  briefly, 
perhaps  to  wait  for  bridging  and  ferrying  equipment  and  the  latest 
orders  from  Hanoi,  then  proceeded  to  carry  out  the  final  assault 
on  Phnom  Penh.  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  elected  not  to  defend  the 
city,  and  it  fell  on  January  7. 

After  the  fall  of  the  capital,  Vietnamese  units  continued  their 
advance  in  two  columns  into  western  Cambodia,  capturing  Bat- 
dambang  and  Siemreab.  The  columns  met  at  Sisophon  and  drove 
on  to  the  Thai  border,  where  there  was  heavy  fighting  in  March 
and  in  April.  In  the  meantime,  some  remaining  Khmer  Rouge  units 
offered  scattered  resistance  before  they  melted  away  into  less  acces- 
sible areas.  There  the  Khmer  Rouge  leaders  soon  rekindled  an  in- 
surgency against  the  new  government  in  power,  just  as  they  had 
in  the  late  1960s,  and  insecurity  persisted  in  the  countryside  in  spite 
of  the  continued  Vietnamese  presence. 

On  the  diplomatic  front,  Vietnam,  maintaining  it  had  no  troops 
in  Cambodia  and  attributing  the  lightning-like  victory  to  the 
KNUFNS,  at  first  denied  responsibility  for  the  invasion.  When 
called  before  the  UN  Security  Council,  however,  Hanoi's  represen- 
tative, tacidy  admitting  the  presence  of  Vietnam  and  citing  numer- 
ous Western  press  reports  of  Pol  Pot's  genocidal  actions,  implied 
that  his  country  had  overthrown  the  Pol  Pot  regime  in  the  name 
of  humanitarian  and  human  rights. 

The  Vietnamese  sweep  through  Cambodia  produced  an  un- 
precedented level  of  turmoil  on  the  Thai  border,  as  disorganized 
and  bypassed  Khmer  Rouge  units  and  civilian  refugees  fled  be- 
fore their  advancing  enemy.  Amid  this  chaos,  in  1979,  two  anti- 
Vietnamese  insurgent  movements,  besides  the  Khmer  Rouge,  came 
into  being.  The  first  of  these  was  the  Khmer  People's  National 
Liberation  Armed  Forces  (KPNLAF — see  Appendix  B),  the  armed 
wing  of  the  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Front  (KPNLF — 
see  Appendix  B),  which  gave  allegiance  to  Son  Sann,  a  noncom- 
munist,  perennial  cabinet  minister  in  successive  Sihanouk  adminis- 
trations. The  other  was  the  Sihanouk  National  Army  (Armee 
Nationale  Sihanoukiste — ANS — see  Appendix  B),  the  armed  wing 
of  the  National  United  Front  for  an  Independent,  Neutral,  Peace- 
ful, and  Cooperative  Cambodia  (Front  Uni  National  pour  un 
Cambodge  Independant,  Neutre,  Pacifique,  et  Cooperatif — 
FUNCINPEC — see  Appendix  B),  which  owed  allegiance  to 


266 


National  Security 


Sihanouk.  Fighting  independently,  these  noncommunist  guerrilla 
movements  and  the  Khmer  Rouge  fomented  continuous  rebellion 
in  the  early  1980s  that  could  not  be  quelled,  despite  a  substantial 
Vietnamese  military  commitment  to  this  purpose.  Operating  from 
refugee  camps  on  the  Thai  frontier,  the  insurgents  made  forays 
into  the  Cambodian  border  provinces  and  kept  the  countryside  in 
a  permanent  state  of  insecurity. 

In  the  1984  to  1985  dry  season,  the  Vietnamese  military  com- 
mand in  Cambodia,  frustrated  because  of  depredations  by  the  guer- 
rillas, undertook  a  sustained  offensive  to  dislodge  them  from  their 
sanctuaries  in  the  refugee  camps.  These  installations  were  pounded 
by  artillery  and  were  overrun  by  Vietnamese  tactical  units.  The 
operation,  which  was  intended  to  cripple  the  Khmer  guerrillas,  had 
the  opposite  effect,  however.  It  drove  them  away  from  the  border, 
and  they  undertook  prolonged  forays  deeper  into  the  Cambodian 
interior. 

To  restrict  guerrilla  activity,  the  Vietnamese  erected  a  physical 
barrier  on  the  Thai-Cambodian  border.  Code-named  Project  K-5, 
the  effort  consisted  of  clearing  jungle  growth;  of  erecting  obsta- 
cles, such  as  ditches,  barbed  wire,  and  minefields;  and  of  building 
a  road  parallel  to  the  border.  Construction  of  the  project,  which 
began  in  1985,  was  performed  by  forced  labor.  All  districts  in  Cam- 
bodia were  tasked  to  provide  able-bodied  males  for  tours  of  duty 
on  the  project  that  ranged  from  three  to  six  months.  Living  condi- 
tions were  primitive  in  the  construction  camps,  and  the  diet  was 
inadequate;  the  area  was  malarial,  and  unexploded  ordnance  from 
past  conflicts  was  a  constant  threat.  The  barrier  was  completed  in 
1987  at  an  unrecorded  cost  in  Cambodian  lives.  Preliminary  indi- 
cations shortly  thereafter  revealed  that  it  was  having  little  effect 
on  guerrilla  movements  to  and  from  the  Cambodian  interior. 

Military  Developments  in  Postwar  Cambodia 

Tenuous  Security 

In  the  late  1980s,  a  Vietnamese  military  contingent  of  140,000 
troops,  and  a  Khmer  force — a  surrogate  for  the  Vietnamese — of 
30,000  to  35,000  troops,  which  comprised  the  KPRAF  of  the  new 
government  in  Phnom  Penh,  maintained  tenuous  control  over  the 
heartland  of  Cambodia.  This  territory  included  the  population 
centers,  the  fertile  rice- growing  area  around  the  Tonle  Sap,  and 
the  main  arteries  of  communication  (see  Population,  ch.  2;  Agricul- 
ture, and  Transportation  and  Communications,  ch.  3).  The  com- 
bined Vietnamese-KPRAF  military  effort  was  opposed  by  disunited 
and  factious  but  persistent  insurgent  forces  belonging  to  each  of 


267 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

the  three  components  of  the  tripartite  Coalition  Government  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea  (CGDK — see  Coalition  Government  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea,  ch.  4).  The  insurgents  had  the  capabil- 
ity to  conduct  long-range  combat  or  reconnaissance  patrols  with 
as  many  as  100  troops.  They  could  engage  in  small-scale  propa- 
ganda missions,  raids,  and  ambushes  against  poorly  armed  tar- 
gets, such  as  militia  outposts,  and  in  sabotage  against  stationary, 
infrastructural  objectives,  such  as  bridges  and  railroad  tracks.  They 
lacked  sufficient  troop  strength,  heavy  weapons,  trained  leader- 
ship, and  dependable  logistical  support,  however,  for  sustained  com- 
bat operations.  From  their  jungle  havens  deep  within  the  country 
and  from  their  bases  near  the  Thai  border,  the  insurgents  were 
reputed  to  range  widely  throughout  Cambodia.  Verifiable  guer- 
rilla actions,  however,  were  confined  to  the  northwestern  provinces 
of  Batdambang  and  Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey  (the  two  provinces 
were  combined  into  one  by  the  government  of  the  People's  Republic 
of  Kampuchea  prior  to  1980),  which  continued  to  be  the  centers 
of  insurgent  activity.  Most  foreign  observers  in  the  late  1980s 
assessed  the  military  situation  as  being  at  a  stalemate.  The  rebels 
lacked  the  capability,  actual  or  potential,  to  drive  out  the  Viet- 
namese occupation  force,  while  the  combined  Vietnamese-KPRAF 
armies,  at  foreseeable  force  and  equipment  levels,  were  incapable 
of  destroying  the  CGDK  guerrilla  units. 

Coalition  Government  Resistance  Forces 

The  tripartite  CGDK  opposed  both  the  Vietnamese  military 
presence  in  Cambodia  and  the  government  of  the  People's  Republic 
of  Kampuchea  that  had  been  installed  in  Phnom  Penh  by  Hanoi. 
Each  component  of  the  coalition  maintained  its  own  force  of  armed 
combatants  (see  fig.  13).  Divided  by  deep-seated  animosities  among 
their  leaders,  these  three  distinctive  and  autonomous  military  forces 
were  brought  into  a  reluctant  and  uneasy  coalition  as  a  result  of 
diplomatic  activity  by  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN).  The  common  goal  of  contesting  the  Vietnamese  oc- 
cupation, however,  could  not  bridge  the  noncommunist  coalition 
partners'  deep  suspicion  toward  the  renascent  Khmer  Rouge. 
Throughout  the  1980s,  the  three  combatant  forces  remained  unin- 
tegrated,  and  each  maintained  separate  bases,  command  structures, 
and  operational  planning.  An  effort  by  ASEAN  to  unite  the  three 
resistance  forces  on  the  Thai  border  resulted,  in  May  1984,  in  the 
creation  on  paper  of  the  Permanent  Military  Coordinating  Com- 
mittee, which  apparently  never  functioned. 

Limited  tactical  cooperation,  however,  occasionally  was  reported 
among  the  various  coalition  partners.  In  one  rare  example,  the  three 


268 


National  Security 


forces  participated  jointly  in  a  major  operation  in  Batdambang 
Province  in  early  1986.  Usually,  Khmer  Rouge  units,  under  their 
shadowy  zonal  commanders,  remained  aloof  from  their  coalition 
partners  and,  on  occasion,  even  attacked  their  military  forces  and 
inflicted  casualties.  Such  interfactional  clashes  were  the  subject  of 
several  complaints  by  Sihanouk,  who  charged  over  the  years  that 
Khmer  Rouge  guerrillas  had  "repeatedly  ambushed  and  killed  [his] 
troops."  These  allegations  were  the  principal  reason  why  he  chose 
to  step  down  from  the  presidency  of  the  CGDK  on  a  leave  of  ab- 
sence in  May  1987. 

National  Army  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 

The  National  Army  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  (NADK — see 
Appendix  B)  was  the  successor  to  the  RAK  of  the  Khmer  Rouge, 
the  name  change  having  gone  into  effect  in  December  1979,  in  an 
apparent  public  relations  effort  that  later  saw  the  dissolution  of  the 
Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  Communist  Party  (KCP — see  Appen- 
dix B),  (replaced  by  the  Party  of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  or 
PDK — see  Appendix  B)  and  the  purported  retirement  of  Pol  Pot 
to  an  advisory  role  in  1985.  NADK  forces  consisted  of  former  RAK 
troops — large  numbers  of  whom  had  escaped  the  1978  to  1979  Viet- 
namese invasion  of  Cambodia — as  well  as  conscripts  coerced  into 
submission  during  the  Khmer  Rouge  retreat  and  new  volunteers 
or  recruits  either  pressed  into  service  during  in-country  raids  or 
drawn  from  among  refugee  groups.  The  New  York  Times  reported 
in  June  1987  that  "the  Khmer  Rouge  army  is  believed  to  be  hav- 
ing some  success  in  its  recruitment,  not  only  among  the  refugees 
in  its  camps  but  within  Vietnamese-controlled  Cambodia."  The 
NADK  did  not  make  personnel  figures  public,  but  estimates  by 
military  observers  and  by  journalists  generally  ranged  between 
40,000  and  50,000  combatants. 

In  1987  the  opinion  that  the  NADK  was  "the  only  effective  fight- 
ing force"  opposing  the  Vietnamese  was  more  often  expressed  by 
foreign  observers.  In  an  interview  published  in  the  United  States 
in  May  1987,  Sihanouk  reportedly  said,  "without  the  Khmer 
Rouge,  we  have  no  credibility  on  the  batdefield  .  .  .  [they  are]  .  .  . 
the  only  credible  military  force." 

During  the  1980s,  the  Khmer  Rouge  leadership,  composed  of 
party  cadres  who  doubled  as  military  commanders,  remained  fairly 
constant.  Pol  Pot  retained  an  ambiguous  but  presumably  promi- 
nent position  in  the  hierarchy,  although  he  was  nominally  replaced 
as  commander  in  chief  of  the  NADK  by  Son  Sen,  who  had  also 
been  a  student  in  Paris,  and  who  had  gone  underground  with  him 
in  1963.  There  were  reports  of  factions  in  the  NADK,  such  as  one 


269 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


CC  LU 

o-j> 

i_  cc  <■ 

Z^cf 

lIzOO 

LUZ°LI 
h-LUQ  — 

<lu^cd 

o?o< 
t-_<o 
<ZUJ 

Z<Cl 


CO_ 

g< 

z: 

<LU 

xz 

a2, 

zO 
Oz 


Z  CO 
LUCC 
LUO 

CC 
< 


LL 

LL 
LU 

LL 
< 

CHI 

AFF 

1- 

co 

LL 

z 

CO 

o 

cc 

LL 

LL 

DE 

o 

LU 
X 

z 

LL 

o 

«r 

LU 

MM, 

CHI 

JTY 

O 

Cl 

o 

DE 

CO 
LU 
Q 
X< 

cog 

cc 

CO 


ZO 

UJqCO 
ZO 


zco 


QZ 

;zlu 


CC! 

SB 


o  »  c 

co  E  o 

•—  o 

T3  CO  (o 

co  —  co  E 

TO  "J/-) 

So  .So 

T3  U  T3  <-> 

c  c 


—  2 

ro  CO 

5  ° 

o  "S 


O  £ 
>,  to 


Q  < 

i-  CM 


LL 

z 

z< 

co° 

co°^ 

LU^CL 

_!<*: 

CL  cc  2 

0_CC~ 

QLUcl 

ujCD^: 

O^co 

LU  m  LU 

0  1 

CL_lO 

i°£ 

HMER 
lONAL 
D  FOR 

*h-LU 

< 

z 

zee 

< 

LL 
LU 

X 

LL 

o 

AF 

z 

h- 

co 

cc 

LL 

DE 

O 

z 

LL 

< 

LU 

X 

o 

o 

o 

5og 
ioo 

QCO 

Cl 


z 

o 

coScc 


CO 

«s§ 

Ol-< 
QZiCC 
-LU 
2CL 

o 


>co 

ccz 

CO 

LU 

IS5 

^  — '  LU 

BAS 

2CC 

CO 

CM 
CO 

o 

GADE 

zi 

LU_| 

< 

CC 

oH 

m 

LU< 

ccm 

0<Q 

z>cco- 

SOD 
*LU< 


Occ< 

lu  Cl 
Q 


>CL 

cc<2^ 

-IQ< 

°£ 
58 


Q 

MAN 

AFF 

i- 

O 

co 

O 

_l 

ME 

ERA 

UPRE 

GEN 

CO 

CO 

Olu 

U 

CCzN 

Ol-CC 

<l- 

II 

CO 

Q  t— 

Dh 

LUCC  CO 

LUCCCO 

SOH 

50H 

CCQ-5 

CC  Q.  5 

<Q-5 

Z3J 

Z=>^ 

Z>C0 

ZJCO 

1 

1 

> 

XcO 

coz 

^CO 
Z  LU 

o° 
h-co 

UJQ 

§< 

LU> 

Olt 

LT5 

l-CQ 

X 

z 

1- 

LU 
H 

270 


National  Security 


loyal  to  Khieu  Samphan,  prime  minister  of  the  defunct  regime  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea,  and  his  deputy  Ieng  Sary,  and  another 
identified  with  Pol  Pot  and  Ta  Mok  (the  Southwestern  Zone  com- 
mander who  conducted  extensive  purges  of  party  ranks  in  Cam- 
bodia in  1977  to  1978).  Although  led  by  party  and  military  veterans, 
the  NADK  combatants  were  reportedly  "less  experienced,  less  moti- 
vated, and  younger"  than  those  the  Vietnamese  had  faced  in  previ- 
ous encounters.  Nevertheless,  the  new  Khmer  Rouge  recruits  still 
were  '  *  hardy  and  lower  class, ' '  and  tougher  than  the  noncommunist 
combatants. 

During  forays  into  Cambodia,  NADK  units  employed  terror  tac- 
tics against  Khmer  civilians,  including  murder  and  destruction  of 
economic  resources.  Such  success  as  they  achieved  in  recruiting 
was  apparently  owed  to  traditional  Cambodian  hatred  of  the  Viet- 
namese invader,  although  there  were  reports  that  some  of  the 
peasantry  would  have  preferred  to  endure  a  continued  Vietnamese 
occupation  rather  than  to  suffer  a  return  to  Khmer  Rouge  rule. 

The  Khmer  Rouge  divided  the  country  into  four  military  zones 
that  functioned  virtually  autonomously  under  their  respective  com- 
manders. Within  these  four  zones,  three  areas — the  provinces 
around  the  Tonle  Sap,  the  western  border  of  Cambodia,  and  the 
remainder  of  the  country — were  sites  of  NADK  tactical  operations. 
It  was  the  first  area,  the  heartland  of  Cambodia,  that  the  NADK 
viewed  as  the  "Achilles'  heel  of  the  Vietnamese  enemy,"  where 
NADK  military  efforts  were  concentrated. 

NADK  units  managed  to  keep  the  main  routes  linking  Phnom 
Penh  to  western  Cambodia  "in  a  permanent  state  of  insecurity," 
according  to  a  senior  Vietnamese  military  observer;  traffic  to  and 
from  the  seaport  of  Kampong  Saom  was  obliged  to  move  in  con- 
voys. Both  highways  and  railroads  from  the  capital  were  interdicted 
intermittently  because  of  guerrilla  activity.  Officials  in  Phnom  Penh 
told  a  Western  correspondent  in  1987  that  the  Khmer  Rouge  were 
then  operating  in  small  insurgent  groups  inside  Cambodia  in  a  battle 
for  the  villages,  rather  than  fighting  from  the  Thai  border  area, 
as  had  been  the  case  prior  to  the  1984  to  1985  Vietnamese  dry- 
season  offensive.  In  carrying  the  war  to  the  countryside,  the  NADK 
demonstrated  that  it  had  gone  on  the  strategic  defensive,  that  is, 
that  it  would  adhere  to  a  doctrine  of  guerrilla  warfare  until  the 
balance  of  forces  was  about  equal.  If  this  parity  were  to  be  achieved, 
NADK  strategists  presumably  would  then  switch  to  offensive  oper- 
ations. 

In  carrying  on  its  protracted  insurgency,  the  NADK  received 
the  bulk  of  its  military  equipment  and  financing  from  China,  which 
had  supported  the  previous  regime  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  One 


271 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

pro-Beijing  source  put  the  level  of  Chinese  aid  to  the  NADK  at 
US$1  million  a  month.  Another  source,  although  it  did  not  give 
a  breakdown,  set  the  total  level  of  Chinese  assistance,  to  all  the 
resistance  factions,  at  somewhere  between  US$60  million  and 
US$100  million  a  year. 

The  Chinese  weaponry  observed  in  the  possession  of  NADK 
combatants  included  AK-47  (Automatic  Kalashnikov)  assault  rifles, 
RPD  light  machine  guns,  RPG  (rocket-propelled  grenade)  launch- 
ers, recoilless  rifles,  and  antipersonnel  mines.  NADK  guerrillas 
usually  were  seen  garbed  in  dark  green  Chinese  fatigues  and  soft 
"Mao  caps"  without  insignia.  No  markings  or  patches  were  evi- 
dent on  guerrilla  uniforms,  although  the  NADK  had  promulgated 
a  hierarchy  of  ranks  with  distinctive  insignias  in  1981. 

To  keep  troops  and  supplies  moving  into  the  combat  zone,  the 
NADK,  according  to  Vietnamese  sources,  followed  two  infiltra- 
tion routes.  One  of  them  ran  south  from  Thailand  through  the  Dan- 
grek  Escarpment  into  Cambodia.  The  second  ran  north  from  Tra, 
a  minor  Thai  seaport  that  may  have  been  an  unloading  point  for 
Chinese  supplies  for  the  Khmer  Rouge.  In  spite  of  substantial 
Chinese  material  assistance,  however,  the  NADK  could  not  main- 
tain the  logistical  supply  line  needed  to  conduct  a  sustained  mili- 
tary campaign. 

Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces 

The  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces 
(KPNLAF),  the  military  component  of  the  Khmer  People's  Na- 
tional Liberation  Front  (KPNLF),  was  formed  in  March  1979  from 
various  anticommunist  groups  concentrated  near  the  Thai  border 
with  Cambodia,  which  were  opposed  to  Pol  Pot's  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea. Many  had  become  essentially  warlord  bands,  engaging 
more  in  trade  and  in  internecine  fighting  than  in  combat  opera- 
tions. They  were  brought  together  by  General  Dien  Del,  a  former 
career  officer  of  the  Khmer  Republic,  who  became  chief  of  the 
KPNLAF  General  Staff. 

The  KPNLAF  was  loyal  to  Son  Sann,  a  former  Sihanouk 
minister  and  the  founder  of  the  KPNLF  political  movement.  Be- 
cause of  Son  Sann's  noncommunist  credentials,  the  KPNLAF 
offered  an  alternative  to  those  Cambodians  who  could  support 
neither  Hanoi  nor  the  Khmer  Rouge,  and  it  quickly  became  the 
second  largest  guerrilla  force  in  the  country.  By  mid- 1981,  with 
about  7,000  personnel  under  arms,  it  was  able  to  protect  its  refu- 
gee camps  and  occasionally  to  conduct  forays  into  Cambodia. 

Two  developments  in  the  mid-1980s,  however,  greatly  dimin- 
ished KPNLAF  capabilities  as  a  fighting  force.  The  first  of  these 


272 


273 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

was  the  Vietnamese  dry-season  offensive  of  1984  to  1985,  which 
dislodged  these  guerrillas  from  their  havens  on  the  Thai-Cambodian 
border.  All  three  insurgent  forces  were  affected  by  this  setback, 
but  the  KPNLAF  proved  less  able  than  the  others  to  sustain  the 
reversal  and  less  flexible  in  adapting  to  new  conditions.  Critical 
sources  noted  that  the  KPNLAF  had  "made  no  significant  contri- 
bution to  the  [1984-85]  dry  season  fighting  against  the  Vietnamese" 
and  that  its  combatants  had  been  "virtually  immobilized  by  the 
loss  of  their  camps."  The  second  development,  equally  harmful 
to  the  KPNLAF  cause,  was  the  dispute  that  broke  out  among  the 
top  leaders.  Following  the  loss  of  the  border  camps,  contemporary 
reports  noted  that  "open  revolt"  had  broken  out  among  guerrilla 
commanders  over  the  "dictatorial  ways"  of  Son  Sann,  who  had 
continued  as  president  of  the  KPNLF,  and  his  "interference  in 
military  matters."  The  crisis  resulted  in  the  virtual  paralysis  of  the 
KPNLAF,  and  the  Thai  military,  presumably  on  a  temporary  ad 
hoc  basis,  took  over  the  overall  management  of  the  insurgent  force. 

Observers  also  reported  that,  as  a  result  of  the  KPNLAF  leader- 
ship dispute,  members  of  guerrilla  units  had  returned  to  the  Thai 
border  from  the  Cambodian  interior  to  await  the  outcome  of  the 
controversy.  There  were  desertions,  and  discipline  became  an  in- 
creasingly serious  problem.  KPNLAF  soldiers  became  suspect  when 
it  was  reported  that  gangs  of  Khmer  bandits  had  attacked  Thai 
vehicles  and  buses,  and  had  sometimes  abducted  or  abused  pas- 
sengers. There  had  long  been  allegations  that  Khmer  insurgents 
on  the  border  engaged  in  black  marketing  and  in  other  criminal 
activity. 

In  1987  estimates  of  KPNLAF  strength  varied  widely.  At  the 
upper  limit,  a  widely  quoted  total  was  14,000  personnel.  In  view 
of  the  leadership  dispute  that  debilitated  the  movement  in  1985 
and  in  1986  and  prevented  its  subsequent  growth,  this  figure  prob- 
ably was  a  considerable  exaggeration.  A  more  realistic  total  was 
about  8,000  combatants,  and  KPNLAF  leaders  expressed  the  hope 
that  an  earnest  recruitment  drive  then  beginning  might  increase 
the  movement's  strength  to  18,000  by  the  end  of  the  year. 

In  accordance  with  its  recruitment  and  reorganization  plans,  the 
KPNLAF  divided  Cambodia  into  nine  military  regions,  or  opera- 
tional zones.  The  force's  chain  of  command  was  headed  by  a  general 
officer  (in  1987,  by  General  Sak  Sutsakhan)  who  functioned  as  com- 
mander in  chief.  Reporting  to  him  was  a  chief  of  staff,  who  exer- 
cised responsibility  over  four  deputy  chiefs  of  staff.  Each  of  these 
latter  officers  was  in  charge  of  one  of  four  sections  dealing  respec- 
tively with  military  operations,  general  administration,  logis- 
tical affairs,  and  planning/psychological  operations.  At  the  next 


274 


National  Security 


subordinate  echelon  were  two  or  three  assistant  chiefs  of  staff,  whose 
functions  were  undefined.  Military  units  of  the  KPNLAF  were 
described  as  battalions,  regiments,  and  brigades,  operating 
presumably  from  semi-permanent  camps  in  inaccessible  areas. 
Combat  elements  reportedly,  were  operating  in  three  provinces  of 
western  Cambodia:  Batdambang,  Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey,  and 
Pouthisat.  Actual  deployment  in  the  latter  province,  long  a  Khmer 
Rouge  stronghold,  however,  was  in  question. 

The  KPNLAF,  like  the  NADK,  received  most  of  its  military 
assistance  from  China.  Some  aid  and  training  was  granted  by 
ASEAN  nations,  however,  especially  by  Singapore  and  by  Malay- 
sia. In  late  1986,  the  Chinese  reportedly  delivered  a  shipment  of 
rocket  launchers;  this  was  the  first  time  the  KPNLAF  was  equipped 
with  effective  antitank  weapons. 

KPNLAF  combatants  sometimes  were  garbed  in  camouflage 
fatigues  and  combat  boots,  both  probably  of  noncommunist  ori- 
gin. At  other  times,  they  were  observed,  while  on  operations,  to 
be  wearing  merely  odds  and  ends  of  clothing,  gleaned  in  refugee 
camps,  rather  than  uniforms.  No  rank  or  branch  insignia  were  dis- 
cernible, but  KPNLAF  troops  frequently  wore  plastic-laminated 
chest  pocket  badges  with  a  photo  of  Son  Sann  and  the  noncom- 
munist Cambodian  flag. 

Armee  Nationale  Sihanoukiste 

The  smaller  of  the  two  noncommunist  resistance  groups,  the 
Armee  Nationale  Sihanoukiste  (ANS)  owed  allegiance  to  Sihanouk. 
It  was  the  armed  adjunct  of  FUNCINPEC,  which  rallied  Sihanouk 
supporters  clustered  on  the  Thai  border.  The  force  was  formed  in 
June  1981 ,  by  consolidating  the  Movement  for  the  National  Liber- 
ation of  Kampuchea  (Mouvement  pour  la  Liberation  Nationale 
du  Kampuchea — MOULINAKA — see  Appendix  B)  and  at  least 
two  other  armed  groups  of  Sihanouk  supporters  grouped  on  the 
Thai  border.  These  groups  existed  at  first  in  conditions  of  near 
penury,  their  members  poorly  armed  and  equipped  as  well  as  half 
starved.  Following  the  proclamation  of  the  Coalition  Government 
of  Democratic  Kampuchea,  international  support  consisting  of 
armaments,  supplies,  and  other  nonlethal  aid,  principally  from  the 
ASEAN  countries  and  from  China,  began  to  transform  the  ANS 
into  a  more  effective  movement.  In  about  1986  to  1987,  it  became 
the  principal  noncommunist  insurgent  force  by  default  when  the 
KPNLAF  slipped  from  that  position  because  of  its  internal  leader- 
ship dispute. 

No  authoritative  figures  for  the  personnel  strength  of  the  ANS 
were  available  in  the  late  1980s.  The  most  frequently  cited  totals 


275 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

ranged  from  a  low  of  7,000  to  a  high  of  1 1,000  combatants.  The 
former  figure  was  quoted  by  Sihanouk,  the  latter  by  Sihanouk's 
son,  Prince  Norodom  Ranariddh,  some  time  afterward.  In  late 
1987,  Sihanouk  also  declared  that  the  ANS  maintained  "8,500 
fighters  permanently  inside  Cambodia."  (This  number  would  not 
necessarily  include  headquarters,  staff,  and  support  elements  on 
the  Thai  border.) 

The  ANS  was  organized  into  a  command  structure  and  maneu- 
ver elements.  The  command  structure  was  headed  by  the  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  ANS,  who  was  assisted  by  both  a  chief  and 
a  deputy  chief  of  staff.  In  1987  the  positions  of  commander  and 
of  chief  of  staff  were  held  concurrently  by  Prince  Norodom 
Ranariddh,  and  that  of  deputy  chief  of  staff  by  Major  General 
Prince  Norodom  Chakrapong,  both  middle-aged  sons  of  Sihanouk. 
Maneuver  elements  consisted  of  battalions,  grouped  under  the  first 
through  the  sixth  brigades.  There  were,  in  addition,  four  indepen- 
dent regiments,  at  least  one  reportedly  composed  of  Khmer  Rouge 
deserters  who  had  rallied  to  Sihanouk's  cause,  and  five  indepen- 
dent commando  groups,  each  composed  of  about  seventy  personnel. 

Following  the  Vietnamese  dry-season  offensive  of  1984  to  1985, 
the  ANS  made  a  major  effort  to  deploy  its  fighters  away  from  the 
border  camps  and  more  deeply  into  Cambodia.  In  1987  accord- 
ing to  Sihanouk,  ANS  combatants  were  deployed  in  five  Cambo- 
dian provinces,  including  Batdambang  and  Siemreab-Otdar 
Meanchey  on  the  western  border  with  Thailand.  Limited  deploy- 
ments also  were  reported  as  far  east  as  Kampong  Thum. 

Photographic  evidence  indicated  that  the  ANS,  like  the 
KPNLAF,  was  equipped  principally  with  Chinese  weapons.  This 
included  AK  assault  rifles,  light  machine  guns,  RPG  (rocket- 
propelled  grenade)  launchers,  and  recoilless  rifles.  ANS  comba- 
tants were  dressed  in  a  panoply  of  uniforms,  some  of  them  of 
ASEAN  origin.  These  included  camouflage  fatigues  and  (T-shirts), 
visored  caps,  and  combat  boots.  Indications  of  rank  were  not  evi- 
dent on  uniforms;  however,  ANS  members  sometimes  wore  plastic- 
laminated  chest  pocket  badges  bearing  a  photograph  of  Sihanouk 
and  a  noncommunist  Cambodian  flag. 

Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces 

The  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Armed 
Forces  (KPRAF)  constituted  the  regular  forces  of  the  pro-Hanoi 
People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  (PRK).  Soon  after  the  downfall 
of  the  Khmer  Rouge,  two  reasons  for  the  necessity  of  such  forces 
became  apparent  to  the  PRK's  Vietnamese  mentors  when  they  in- 
stalled the  new  Cambodian  government  in  early  1979.  First,  if  the 


276 


KPNLAF  insurgents  assist  peasants  with  their 
rice  planting  along  the  Thai-Cambodian  border 
Courtesy  Frank  Tatu 

new  administration  in  Phnom  Penh  was  to  project  internationally 
the  image  of  being  a  legitimate  sovereign  state,  it  would  need  a 
national  army  of  its  own  apart  from  the  Vietnamese  forces.  Sec- 
ond, if  the  Vietnamese  army  was  not  to  have  to  shoulder  indefinitely 
its  internal  security  mission  in  Cambodia,  it  would  need  to  develop 
a  Khmer  military  force  that  could  be  put  in  place  as  a  surrogate 
for  Vietnamese  troops.  Raising  such  an  indigenous  force  presented 
no  insurmountable  obstacle  for  Hanoi  at  the  time  because  several 
precedents  already  had  been  established.  In  Laos,  the  Vietnamese 
armed  forces  maintained  a  close  training  and  coordinating  rela- 
tionship with  their  Laotian  counterparts  as  a  result  of  Hanoi's  mili- 
tary presence  in  the  country.  In  Cambodia,  Vietnam  had  been  a 
mainstay  for  Khmer  communist  factions  since  1954.  The  Viet- 
namese army  also  had  helped  train  Pol  Pot's  RAK  and  its  succes- 
sor, the  CPNLAF,  following  the  coup  that  deposed  Sihanouk  in 
1970.  More  recendy,  Hanoi  had  helped  raise  and  train  a  few,  prob- 
ably battalion- sized,  regiments  of  Khmer  troops  that  had  fought 
alongside  the  Vietnamese  during  the  invasion  of  Cambodia.  With 
further  Vietnamese  tutelage,  these  Khmer  units  became  the  nucleus 
of  a  national  army.  From  such  ad  hoc  beginnings,  the  KPRAF 
grew  as  a  military  force  and  eventually  gained  its  position  as  an 
instrument  of  both  the  party  and  the  state.  This  development, 


277 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

however,  was  carefully  shielded  from  the  scrutiny  of  outsiders,  and 
much  that  could  be  concluded  about  the  armed  forces  of  the  PRK 
was  based  on  analysis  rather  than  incontrovertible  hard  data. 

Threats  and  Capabilities 

The  major  impetus  for  the  establishment  of  the  KPRAF  was  the 
security  threat  faced  by  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh.  Inter- 
nally this  threat  consisted  of  the  armed  insurgents  belonging  to  the 
three  CGDK  components.  The  total  strength  of  the  three  forces 
was  impossible  to  gauge  with  any  precision;  it  may  possibly  have 
reached  between  55,000  and  75,000  combatants,  but  it  could  have 
been  considerably  less  than  that  figure.  The  insurgent  forces  were 
incapable  of  mounting  a  sustained  offensive  and  of  massing  for  any 
tactical  operation  beyond  sporadic  patrols  in  companies,  because 
they  could  not  overcome  their  destructive  factional  rivalries.  Least 
of  all  were  they  able  to  bring  down  the  Phnom  Penh  government. 
They  were  capable,  however,  of  keeping  Cambodia  in  a  perma- 
nent state  of  insecurity;  they  raised  the  cost  to  Hanoi  of  its  large 
military  presence  in  the  country;  and,  backed  by  China,  they  offered 
a  persistent  obstacle  to  the  coalescence  of  an  Hanoi-dominated 
Indochinese  federation. 

In  addition  to  the  Khmer  insurgents  in  Cambodia  itself,  the 
KPRAF  and  the  Phnom  Penh  government  felt  that  they  faced  a 
substantial  external  menace  as  well  that  consisted  of  the  numeri- 
cally superior  Royal  Thai  Army,  supplied  by  China,  the  United 
States,  and  Thailand,  which  played  host  to  legions  of  Khmer  guer- 
rillas who  crossed  the  border  to  prey  on  KPRAF  units  and  on  PRK 
assets  at  will.  To  what  extent  this  perception  was  realistic  was  a 
disputable  point.  Bangkok  did  acquiesce  to  the  presence  on  Thai 
soil  of  Khmer  refugee  camps,  which  the  insurgents  used  for  rest 
and  recuperation.  The  Thai  Army,  however,  was  neither  massed 
nor  deployed  in  an  especially  threatening  posture  along  the  border 
with  Cambodia;  moreover,  the  resistance  that  the  Thai  could  have 
offered  to  a  hypothetical  Vietnamese  offensive  into  Thailand  was 
the  subject  of  legitimate  speculation.  Phnom  Penh's  denunciations 
of  alleged  Thai  bellicosity  were  made  with  such  regularity,  however, 
that  it  was  possible  that  the  KPRAF  (and  the  PRK)  stood  in  some 
danger  of  being  the  victims  of  their  own  propaganda  concerning 
Bangkok's  aggressive  intentions. 

A  lesser,  but  nevertheless  real,  threat  was  posed  by  the  possibil- 
ity of  unauthorized  landings  along  Cambodia's  irregular  and  un- 
protected coastline.  Chinese  vessels  could  exploit  this  vulnerability 
by  putting  in  at  secluded  coves  and  inlets  uncontrolled  by  the 
KPRAF,  and  there  they  could  unload  arms  and  supplies  for  the 


278 


National  Security 


insurgents.  In  1987  this  threat  was  not  decisive,  but  it  had  the  poten- 
tial to  become  so,  if  the  network  of  obstacles  and  minefields  em- 
placed  on  the  Cambodian  border  proved  to  be  an  unexpectedly 
effective  barrier  in  impeding  the  flow  of  Chinese  supplies  to  the 
Khmer  guerrillas. 

Along  its  northeastern  and  eastern  borders  with  Laos  and  with 
Vietnam,  Cambodia  faced  no  noteworthy  external  security  threat. 
As  long  as  friendly  communist  governments  remained  in  power 
in  Vientiane,  Phnom  Penh,  and  Hanoi,  their  interests  in  protect- 
ing the  inviolability  of  their  common  frontiers  converged.  In  spite 
of  this,  however,  government  control  in  the  upland  border  areas 
of  all  three  states  probably  was  tenuous,  and  insurgent  (or  bandit) 
groups,  if  not  too  large,  could  pass  back  and  forth  unhindered.  The 
security  threat  posed  by  such  bands  was  vexatious  but  minor,  and, 
in  the  case  of  Cambodia,  it  could  probably  be  contained  by  the 
provincial  units  without  requiring  the  intervention  of  the  KPRAF 
or  of  Vietnamese  main  forces. 

The  capability  of  the  KPRAF  to  meet  the  threats,  real  or  per- 
ceived, arrayed  against  it  in  1987  was  open  to  question.  Western 
observers,  in  consensus,  rated  the  forces  of  the  Phnom  Penh  govern- 
ment as  generally  ineffectual,  possessed  of  only  a  limited  capability 
for  any  combat  mission.  In  their  view,  the  KPRAF  was  over- 
stretched and  understaffed  and  could  neither  cope  with  the  sus- 
tained guerrilla  activity  of  the  CGDK  insurgents,  nor  prevent  their 
infiltration  into  Cambodia  from  Thailand,  nor  patrol  the  country's 
extended  coastline.  In  the  face  of  such  limitations,  it  was  neces- 
sary to  acknowledge,  nevertheless,  that  the  KPRAF  had  been  built 
literally  from  nothing  in  a  war- torn  and  devastated  country,  the 
population  of  which  had  been  decimated  previously  by  a  brutal 
dictatorship.  The  establishment,  in  the  space  of  a  few  years,  of  a 
credible  force  under  such  circumstances  would  have  been  a  daunting 
task  for  any  government,  let  alone  one  so  deprived  of  resources 
and  of  leadership  and  so  dependent  upon  external  support.  The 
most  conclusive  analysis  that  could  be  made  about  the  KPRAF 
was  that  Hanoi  had  laid  the  foundation  for  an  indigenous  Cambo- 
dian military  force  and,  by  its  recurrent  insistence  that  Vietnamese 
units  would  be  withdrawn  by  1990,  may  have  imparted  to  its  clients 
in  the  Phnom  Penh  government  a  certain  degree  of  urgency  in 
regard  to  developing  an  effective  force. 

Organization  and  Control 

The  establishment  of  a  legal  and  a  bureaucratic  structure  for  the 
armed  forces  was  concurrent  with  the  founding  of  the  KPRAF. 
The  legal  basis  was  found  in  the  Constitution  of  the  PRK,  which 


279 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


went  through  several  versions  before  being  adopted  by  the  National 
Assembly  in  1981  (see  The  Constitution,  ch.  4).  Article  9  of  the 
Constitution  acknowledges  the  existence  of  the  KPRAF  and  notes 
that  its  obligation  is  "to  defend  the  fatherland  and  the  revolution- 
ary power,  safeguard  the  revolutionary  gains  and  the  peaceful  life 
of  the  people  and  join  with  the  latter  in  national  construction." 
The  Constitution  also  imposes  a  reciprocal  obligation  on  the  peo- 
ple, declaring  that  it  is  their  "supreme  duty  and  honor"  to  "build 
and  defend  the  fatherland,"  and  that  all  citizens  without  respect 
to  gender  "must  serve  in  the  armed  forces  as  prescribed  by  law." 

In  an  early  draft,  the  Constitution  had  specified  that  the  chair- 
man of  the  Council  of  State  was  concurrently  the  supreme  com- 
mander of  the  armed  forces  and  the  chairman  of  the  National 
Defense  Council.  In  a  curious  deviation  from  the  initial  draft, 
however,  the  definitive  version  of  the  Constitution  omitted  this  key 
passage.  Its  omission  provoked  speculation  about  the  true  locus 
of  authority  over  the  KPRAF  and  fueled  suspicions  that  the  dele- 
tion could  have  been  related  to  the  relief,  under  murky  circum- 
stances, of  then-chairman  and  armed  forces  head  Pen  Sovan.  In 
1987,  however,  supreme  command  of  the  KPRAF  was  vested  once 
again  in  the  chairmanship  of  the  Council  of  State  (see  Government 
Structure,  ch.  4). 

The  KPRAF  was  answerable  to  two  organizations  below  the 
Council  of  State,  namely,  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  and 
the  General  Staff.  The  minister  of  national  defense,  a  position  es- 
tablished sometime  in  1979,  was  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers,  the  executive  body  empowered  by  the  Constitution  "to 
consolidate  and  develop  the  national  defense  forces;  to  carry  out 
the  mobilization  of  the  armed  forces;  to  order  curfews  and  take 
other  necessary  measures  for  national  defense."  To  carry  out  his 
duties,  the  minister  of  national  defense  was  assisted  by  four  deputies 
who  oversaw,  in  1987,  the  work  of  at  least  nine  departments  (see 
fig.  14).  The  incomplete  evidence  available  in  1987  suggested  that 
functions  such  as  administration,  operations,  and  logistics,  nor- 
mally reserved  for  general  staff  sections  in  some  armed  forces,  were 
carried  out  at  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  level. 

Below  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  the  General  Staff  was 
the  second  echelon  concerned  with  defense  and  security  matters 
in  the  PRK.  It  was  one  of  the  earliest  KPRAF  organs  to  be  estab- 
lished and  was  already  in  place  by  mid- 1979.  In  1986  it  was  headed 
by  a  chief  of  general  staff,  with  a  secretariat  and  four  deputies,  all 
of  whose  responsibilities  remained  obscure.  The  General  Staff  ex- 
ercised jurisdiction  over  the  three  components  of  the  KPRAF:  the 
ground  force  (army),  the  embryonic  coastal/riverine  naval  force, 


280 


National  Security 


and  the  air  force.  It  probably  oversaw  administratively  the  coun- 
try's military  regions  and  certain  specialized  commands,  such  as 
the  Signals  and  Special  Warfare  Command.  It  may  have  exercised 
operational  control  over  some  KPRAF  tactical  formations  as  well, 
especially  those  operating  autonomously,  apart  from  Vietnamese 
forces.  The  lines  of  authority  delimiting  General  Staff  responsibil- 
ities from  Ministry  of  National  Defense  responsibilities  appeared 
to  be  more  blurred  than  in  some  contemporary  armies.  This  may 
not  have  caused  jurisdictional  disputes,  however,  because,  with  the 
paucity  of  military  leadership,  key  officers  sometimes  served  con- 
currently in  both  bodies. 

Control  of  the  KPRAF  military  establishment  and  its  adherence 
to  the  political  orthodoxy  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's 
Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP — see  Appendix  B)  were  ensured  by 
a  party  network,  superimposed  upon  the  national  defense  struc- 
ture, that  extended  downward  to  units  at  all  echelons.  Party  con- 
trol of  the  armed  forces  also  was  exercised  by  the  assignment  of 
senior  officers  to  top-echelon  military  and  party  positions  with,  for 
example,  key  Ministry  of  National  Defense  or  General  Staff  officers 
also  serving  on  the  KPRP  Central  Committee.  At  the  national  level, 
supervision  of  party  work  in  the  armed  forces  was  entrusted  to  the 
General  Political  Department  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense. 
Incomplete  evidence  suggested  the  presence,  among  the  country's 
regional  military  commands,  of  political  officers  with  small  staffs 
or  commissions  at  their  disposal.  Logically,  such  officers  would  have 
kept  in  close  contact  and  would  have  coordinated  party  activities 
in  their  military  jurisdictions  with  their  counterparts  in  KPRAF 
tactical  units  and  on  party  provincial  committees. 

During  the  1980s,  party  activity  in  the  KPRAF  focused  on  build- 
ing support  for  the  "socialist  revolution"  in  Cambodia,  and  on 
increasing  membership  in  all  military  units.  In  late  1984,  party 
goals  were  to  establish  a  committee  in  each  regiment  of  the  provin- 
cial forces,  as  well  as  a  party  cell  or  chapter  in  each  battalion  and 
in  each  company  at  the  district  level.  This  endeavor  reportedly  had 
achieved  partial  success  by  mid- 1985.  In  a  relentless  effort  to  build 
party  membership  in  the  KPRAF,  cadres  at  all  echelons  over  the 
years  have  been  urged  to  spot  capable  military  personnel  with  poten- 
tial and  to  induct  them  quickly  into  the  party.  Such  appeals  hinted, 
that  for  KPRAF  members,  the  trial  or  waiting  period  for  party 
acceptance  was  waived,  and  that  even  the  act  of  joining  may  not 
have  been  completely  voluntary.  KPRP  officials  also  sought  to  ex- 
pand membership  by  junior  officers  and  by  KPRAF  rank  and  file 
in  the  People's  Revolutionary  Youth  Union  of  Kampuchea 
(PRYUK — see  Appendix  B).  As  the  party's  mass  organization  to 


281 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


KPRAF1 
MINISTRY 
OF  DEFENSE 

CABINET 

FOUR  DEPUTY 
MINISTERS 


GENERAL 
DEPARTMENTS 


POLITICAL 
LOGISTICAL 
OTHER 


DEPARTMENTS 


ADMINISTRATION 
CADRE 

ORGANIZATION 
COMBAT  PLANNING 
FOREIGN  RELATIONS 
PROPAGANDA 

AND  EDUCATION 
TRAINING 
TECHNICAL 


CHIEF  OF  STAFF 


GENERAL  STAFF 


PRINCIPAL 
TACTICAL  UNITS 


DIVISIONS/ 
BRIGADES 


179th 
196th 
286th 
640th 
688th 
689th 
691st 


FOUR 
MILITARY 
REGIONS 


TRAINING 
SCHOOLS/ 
CENTERS 


PROVINCIAL/ 
REGIONAL 
FORCES  (?) 


Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces 


Figure  14.  Organization  of  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Armed  Forces,  1986-87 


which  all  young  people  could  belong,  the  PRYUK  was  in  a  strong 
institutional  position  to  accept  all  applicants,  and  it  could  make 
deeper  inroads  into  the  KPRAF  than  the  more  elitist  party.  In  an 
exhortatory  message  in  early  1987,  defense  officials  proudly  noted 
the  existence  of  PRYUK  "structures"  in  more  than  80  percent 
of  the  armed  forces,  and  they  acknowledged  a  debt  of  gratitude 


282 


National  Security 


to  the  mass  organization  for  occupying  the  forefront  of  a  national 
effort  to  induce  Khmer  youth  to  serve  in  the  KPRAF. 

When  considering  the  dynamics  of  the  KPRAF,  the  possibility 
of  factionalism  should  at  least  be  considered.  In  some  armies, 
this  factionalism  may  take  the  form  of  interservice  rivalry,  of  the 
coalescence  of  groups  around  certain  leaders,  or  of  shared  com- 
monalities, such  as  military  schooling,  unit  affiliation,  or  combat 
experience.  In  the  case  of  the  KPRAF,  it  is  unlikely  that  such  fac- 
tionalism existed.  Vietnamese  advisers,  for  example,  present  at  all 
KPRAF  echelons,  would  have  detected  such  activity  at  an  early 
stage  and  would  have  suppressed  it  promptly,  because  it  would  have 
detracted  from  the  building  of  an  effective  Khmer  fighting  force, 
which  it  was  the  Vietnamese  army's  mission  to  develop. 

Interservice  rivalry  also  could  be  dismissed  as  a  cause  of  faction- 
alism in  the  KPRAF  for  the  time  being.  The  ground  forces  clearly 
were  the  dominant  service  both  by  size  and  by  seniority.  The 
coastal/riverine  naval  force  and  the  air  force  were  newly  established; 
very  small  in  numbers,  they  were  not  in  a  position  to  challenge 
the  primacy  of  the  larger  service,  despite  the  possibility  of  some 
elitism  engendered  by  their  more  technical  orientation. 

The  composition  of  the  KPRAF  officer  corps  also  militated 
against  the  rise  of  factionalism.  As  members  of  a  comparatively 
small  armed  force,  the  officers  were  relatively  few  in  number  and 
were  subject  to  a  system  of  rotational  assignments,  which  bred 
familiarity  with  a  variety  duties.  The  consequent  personnel  inter- 
changeability  presumably  prevented  the  creation  of  warlord  fiefs 
and  the  development  of  inordinate  personal  loyalties  within  the  mili- 
tary establishment.  As  is  true  of  the  military  elite  in  other  small, 
undeveloped  countries,  KPRAF  officers  were  personally  known  to 
one  another,  and  they  were  thoroughly  acquainted  with  one 
another's  family  and  political  antecedents.  This  network  of  per- 
sonal and  family  relationships,  always  important  in  Asia,  may  have 
fostered  a  spirit  of  cooperation  rather  than  competitiveness; 
moreover,  the  ubiquity — the  perhaps  even  suffocating  presence — of 
Vietnamese  military  advisers  also  may  have  been  sufficient  induce- 
ment for  Khmer  personnel  to  submerge  whatever  differences  existed 
among  them. 

The  final  factor  that  may  have  inhibited  the  rise  of  factions  within 
the  KPRAF  was  the  range  of  options  available  to  its  dissident  officers 
and  to  its  enlisted  troops.  Unlike  the  armed  forces  in  other  Third 
World  countries,  where  disaffected  military  personnel  had  little 
choice  but  to  plot  coups  or  to  swallow  their  resentments,  KPRAF 
personnel  could  (and  many  did)  simply  walk  away  from  their  mili- 
tary commitments  and  join  the  anti- Vietnamese  insurgents,  which 


283 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

had  policies  of  welcoming  KPRAF  defectors.  If  they  exercised  this 
option,  they  had  an  additional  choice:  they  could  join  the  com- 
munist NADK,  the  nationalist  KPNLAF,  or  the  royalist  ANS.  For 
the  armed  forces  of  the  Phnom  Penh  government,  this  range  of 
options  meant  that  those  personnel  who  remained  in  the  KPRAF 
did  so  voluntarily  because  of  common  purpose  and  loyalty  to  the 
institution  or  the  regime.  Although  in  the  short  term  this  dynamic 
may  have  had  a  purgative  effect  on  the  KPRAF,  ensuring  its  ideo- 
logical purity,  it  was  based  on  Khmer  acquiescence  to  the  continued 
Vietnamese  domination  of  the  PRK  and  of  its  armed  forces. 
Whether  or  not  continued  acceptance  of  this  domination  would  long 
prevail  in  the  face  of  Khmer  nationalism  among  military  person- 
nel remained  debatable. 

Although  logic  might  argue  against  the  existence  of  factions  in 
the  KPRAF,  the  case  is  not  entirely  one-sided.  It  could  be  noted, 
after  all,  that  Cambodia  since  1970  has  been  subjected  to  cataclysmic 
events  that  have  produced  deep  cleavages  within  Khmer  society 
and  that  may  well  have  been  reflected  in  the  armed  forces  them- 
selves. In  the  KPRAF,  even  among  personnel  who  had  chosen  not 
to  join  the  insurgents,  it  was  possible  to  note  a  variety  of  back- 
grounds; there  were  ex-Khmer  Rouge  turncoats,  Vietnamese  sup- 
porters, former  royalists,  and  a  younger  generation  of  junior  officers 
and  of  men  without  political  antecedents.  Although  it  could  not 
be  proved  by  outside  observers,  it  could  be  inferred  that  factions 
in  the  KPRAF  might  have  coalesced  around  such  shared  former 
political  loyalties,  affiliations,  or  backgrounds.  If  this  were  the  case, 
such  coalescence  could  take  several  forms  in  the  future:  either  there 
could  be  a  hardening  of  factional  lines  as  the  KPRAF  itself  becomes 
more  entrenched  as  an  institution  of  the  PRK,  or  as  stated  at  the 
outset,  Vietnam,  in  its  role  of  mentor  to  the  armed  forces  of  the 
Phnom  Penh  government,  could  keep  a  tight  rein  on  the  KPRAF 
and  could  forcibly  prevent  its  polarization  around  internal  factions. 

Mission  and  Doctrine 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  KPRAF  had  several  missions.  Some  were 
implicit  in  Cambodia's  situation;  others  were  prescribed  in  the  Con- 
stitution. Foremost  were  the  duties  to  defend  the  nation  from  for- 
eign aggression,  to  safeguard  the  gains  of  the  Marxist  revolution 
in  Cambodia,  and  to  ensure  domestic  security  by  engaging  in  com- 
bat against  insurgents  and  against  domestic  foes  as  determined  by 
the  government  and  the  party.  In  addition  to  the  combat  role  that 
was  part  of  their  internal  security  responsibilities,  the  KPRAF  also 
engaged  in  propaganda  activity  on  behalf  of  the  government,  per- 
formed various  civic  action  tasks,  and  participated  in  economic 


284 


National  Security 


production.  Because  of  the  poverty  of  the  country,  and  because 
the  defense  budget  was  not  sufficient  to  meet  KPRAF's  needs,  the 
KPRAF  had  to  help  pay  its  own  way  by  generating  income.  In 
the  1980s,  its  efforts  were  limited  to  growing  vegetables  and  rais- 
ing poultry  and  livestock  for  military  use,  but,  in  the  future,  they 
could  include  manufacturing  commodities  and  processing  raw 
materials  in  military-owned  factories. 

To  accomplish  its  combat  missions,  the  KPRAF  developed  its 
own  military  doctrine.  Although  not  available  in  written  form  to 
Western  observers,  this  doctrine  could  be  inferred  from  the  Con- 
stitution, from  the  circumstances  in  Cambodia,  and  from  the  dy- 
namics of  the  Vietnamese  military  establishment  which  had  acted 
as  mentor  and  as  role  model  for  the  KPRAF  from  its  inception. 
In  both  the  KPRAF  and  the  Vietnamese  army  there  was  no  doc- 
trinal dichotomy  between  civilian  society  and  the  military  estab- 
lishment as  there  is  in  most  Western  nations.  Everyone  was 
potentially  a  member  of  the  armed  forces;  in  Cambodia  as  in  Viet- 
nam, there  were  total  mobilization  of  the  population  and  total  dedi- 
cation of  whatever  resources  the  nation  could  muster  in  order  to 
achieve  the  military  goals  the  government  or  the  party  wished  to 
formulate.  The  total  involvement  of  the  Cambodian  population 
in  warfare  was  enshrined  doctrinally  in  the  constitutional  statement 
that  "the  people  as  a  whole  participate  in  national  defense."  Be- 
cause of  the  security  imperatives  faced  by  the  Phnom  Penh  govern- 
ment in  fighting  a  persistent  insurgency,  virtually  the  entire 
able-bodied  population  was  organized  into  various  military  and 
paramilitary  bodies.  This  doctrinal  concept  worked  well  defensively 
when  patriotism  could  be  invoked  to  rally  a  population  against  a 
foreign  invader  or  against  a  real  or  fancied,  but  easily  understood, 
external  threat.  It  worked  less  well  when  used  to  rally  indigenous 
support  for  a  foreign  occupier,  as  the  Phnom  Penh  regime  had  to 
do  for  Vietnam.  Hanoi,  therefore,  incessantly  evoked  the  specter 
of  the  return  of  Pol  Pot  and  the  Khmer  Rouge  to  induce  the  Cam- 
bodian population  to  join  the  KPRAF,  and  through  active  per- 
sonal involvement,  to  render  unflinching  support  to  the  PRK. 

The  KPRAF  probably  was  also  subject  to  other  doctrinal  in- 
fluences from  the  military  establishments  of  Vietnam  and,  ulti- 
mately, the  Soviet  Union,  which  maintained  a  substantial  advisory 
presence  with  the  Vietnamese  armed  forces  and  a  smaller  one  with 
the  KPRAF.  The  relevance  of  the  military  doctrine  of  the  large 
armies  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  of  Vietnam  to  the  small,  question- 
ably trained  and  equipped  KPRAF  remained  speculative,  however, 
especially  in  the  counterinsurgency  environment  of  Cambodia. 
Soviet  advisers,  directly  or  through  Vietnamese  counterparts,  may 


285 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

have  relayed  their  experiences  in  Afghanistan  and  they  may  have 
advised  on  measures  for  countering  Chinese  or  Western  equipment 
and  weapons,  on  methods  of  controlling  or  suborning  the  popula- 
tion, and  on  means  of  employing  weapons  and  weapons  systems — 
such  as  artillery,  helicopters,  and  land  mines.  Vietnamese  advisers, 
focusing  on  their  army's  neutralization  of  insurgent  base  camps 
on  the  Thai  border — through  large-scale  operations  supported  by 
indirect  fire — in  the  dry  season  offensive  of  1984  and  1985,  may 
have  unwittingly  imparted  to  their  Cambodian  understudies  a 
predilection  for  this  tactical  doctrine. 

Composition  and  Deployment 

Cambodia  was  divided  geographically  into  four  KPRAF  mili- 
tary regions  (see  fig.  15).  These  regions  originally  bore  numbers 
assigned  by  the  Vietnamese  to  conform  to  the  system  used  by  the 
People's  Army  of  Vietnam  (PAVN — see  Appendix  B).  In  the 
mid-1980s  they  were  renumbered  to  present,  at  least,  the  illusion, 
of  their  autonomy  from  the  Vietnamese  armed  forces.  Little  was 
known  conclusively  about  the  functions  of  the  military  regions,  espe- 
cially about  the  operational  control  exercised  by  their  headquar- 
ters over  KPRAF  tactical  units  and  missions.  It  was  possible  that 
their  responsibilities  were  restricted  to  administrative  tasks,  such 
as  conscription,  training,  economic  production,  and  coordination 
with  Vietnamese  military  units  and  advisers. 

Below  the  level  of  military  region  headquarters,  the  KPRAF  was 
composed  of  three  types  of  units:  main  or  regular  forces,  provin- 
cial or  regional  forces,  and  village  militia  or  local  forces.  Official 
strength  figures  were  lacking  in  1987,  but  the  main  and  provincial 
forces  together  may  have  numbered  more  than  40,000  troops.  It 
was  the  intention  of  the  KPRAF 's  Vietnamese  mentors  to  build 
a  reliable  Khmer  force  of  between  30,000  and  50,000  personnel, 
presumably  by  about  1990,  by  which  date  Vietnamese  units  were 
to  be  withdrawn. 

In  the  mid-to-late  1980s,  KPRAF  regular  or  main  force  units 
consisted  of  seven  understrength  infantry  divisions,  several  indepen- 
dent infantry  brigades  and  regiments,  as  many  as  four  tank  bat- 
talions, and  combat  support  formations,  such  as  engineer  battalions. 
The  forerunners  of  all  these  units  were  several  Khmer  battalions 
raised  by  Hanoi  in  1978  as  it  prepared  for  the  invasion  of  Cam- 
bodia. In  approximately  1980,  the  battalions  were  reorganized 
into  four  brigades,  each  one  posted  to  one  of  the  four  Cambo- 
dian provinces  of  Batdambang,  Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey, 
Kampong  Spoe,  and  Kampong  Cham.  In  these  areas,  the  brigades 
performed  static  defense  tasks,  and  they  occasionally  participated 


286 


National  Security 


with  Vietnamese  forces  in  joint  operations  against  the  insurgents. 
As  conscription  and  voluntary  enlistments  brought  more  person- 
nel into  the  KPRAF,  the  four  brigades  were  upgraded  to  infantry 
divisions,  and  two  additional  divisions  were  founded..  In  spite  of 
such  apparent  progress  in  force  development,  however,  all  units 
remained  chronically  under  strength,  according  to  Western  ob- 
servers. In  the  mid-to-late- 1980s,  KPRAF  authorities  deployed 
much  of  their  main  force  strength  semipermanently  in  western 
Cambodia,  and  division  headquarters  were  reported  to  have  been 
established  in  Batdambang  City,  in  Treng,  and  in  Sisophon  in  Bat- 
dambang  Province.  There  was  little  agreement  among  observers 
on  unit  designations  or  on  the  movements  of  main  force  units  below 
division  level  within  Cambodia,  or  on  the  extent  to  which  such 
Khmer  units  were  able  to  operate  independently  of  Vietnamese 
forces. 

Equipment  for  the  main  force  units  was  furnished  by  Vietnam 
and  by  the  Soviet  Union.  Armaments  consisted  of  small  arms  of 
Soviet  origin,  including  the  AKM  (updated  version  of  the  AK-47) 
assault  rifle  and  various  crew-served  weapons,  including  towed 
medium  howitzers,  and  air-defense  weapons  in  several  calibers. 
Tanks  in  the  KPRAF  armored  battalions  included  the  T-54/55, 
an  old,  but  capable,  main  battle  tank  of  Soviet  origin;  the  obsoles- 
cent PT-76  light  amphibious  tank;  and  the  Type-59,  an  older 
Chinese  main  battie  tank,  probably  handed  down  from  Vietnamese 
stocks.  Armored  fighting  vehicles  in  the  main  force  inventory  con- 
sisted of  the  Soviet  BTR  series  of  wheeled  vehicles,  and  some  aging 
American  equipment — such  as  V-100  armored  cars  and  M-113 
armored  personnel  carriers — either  bequeathed  by  Vietnam  or  left 
behind  from  the  days  of  the  Khmer  Republic  (see  table  16, 
Appendix  A). 

The  provincial/regional  forces  were  second  echelon  troops,  ranked 
below  main  force  regulars  in  capability,  in  sustainability,  and  in 
equipment.  The  forerunners  of  the  provincial  forces  were  Khmer 
units  that  were  raised  hastily  in  1979.  They  were  composed  of  defec- 
tors or  refugees  who  were  pressed  into  service  by  the  Vietnamese 
in  their  invasion  of  Cambodia.  The  units  numbered  perhaps  100 
personnel  each,  and  they  were  allocated,  one  per  province,  to 
accompany  officials  of  the  newly  proclaimed  government  in  Phnom 
Penh  as  they  filled  the  places  left  vacant  by  the  Khmer  Rouge  and 
set  up  provincial  administrations.  To  extend  the  government 
presence  to  the  districts,  some  provincial  units  were  broken  down 
into  platoons  or  squads  and  were  dispatched  to  accompany  newly 
appointed  district  officials.  At  this  time,  the  provincial  forces  were 
merely  adjuncts  of  the  Vietnamese  occupation  forces;  they  were 


287 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  "The  Military  Occupation  of  Kampuchea,"  Indochina 
Report,  Singapore,  No.  3,  July-September  1985. 

Figure  15.  Military  Regions,  1987 

untrained,  and  they  had  few  capabilities  beyond  those  needed  to 
provide  rudimentary  passive  defense  to  their  provincial  or  district 
administrations. 


288 


National  Security 


In  1987  little  authoritative  information  was  available  on  the 
deployment  and  the  total  strength  of  the  Cambodian  provincial 
forces.  If  the  KPRAF  followed  the  examples  of  its  Vietnamese  and 
Laotian  counterparts,  however,  troops  for  provincial  units  were 
raised  from  among  local  residents  and  were  deployed  exclusively 
in  their  home  provinces.  Such  practices  may  have  given  these  forces 
an  edge,  in  recruitment  and  in  morale,  over  their  main  force  coun- 
terparts because  village  youths  generally  preferred  to  serve  their 
military  obligation  closer  to  home.  In  a  counterinsurgency  like  the 
one  in  Cambodia,  provincial  forces  also  could  have  had  an  advan- 
tage because  of  their  greater  knowledge  of  the  area  of  operations 
and  of  local  conditions,  both  friendly  and  hostile. 

An  early  goal  of  the  government  in  Phnom  Penh  was  to  raise 
two  battalions  of  provincial  forces  per  province.  Given  the  man- 
power limitations  of  the  nation,  a  more  realistic  goal  would  have 
been  a  single  battalion  per  province.  In  1987  Western  analysts  be- 
lieved that  the  latter  goal  had  been  achieved  and  had  even  been 
exceeded  in  some  provinces  on  the  Thai  border,  where  the  insur- 
gent threat  was  greatest.  It  continued  to  be  impossible  to  gauge 
the  overall  strength  of  the  provincial  forces  with  any  accuracy,  but 
based  on  an  estimate  of  1  battalion  per  province  in  general,  with 
2  to  4  battalions  per  border  province,  a  figure  of  10,000  personnel 
may  have  been  realistic. 

The  connections  among  the  provincial  forces  and  the  Ministry 
of  National  Defense  and  the  KPRAF  General  Staff  were  unclear. 
At  subordinate  echelons,  however,  provincial  units  were  respon- 
sible to  a  local  military  committee.  This  committee  was  composed 
of  the  chairman,  the  military  commander  and  his  deputy,  and  a 
small  staff  headed  by  a  chief  of  staff.  The  military  committee  re- 
ported to  the  provincial  committee  of  the  mass  organization  of  the 
KPRP,  the  Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National 
Construction  and  Defense  (KUFNCD — see  Appendix  B).  The 
KUFNCD  coordinated  military  affairs  with  the  corresponding  party 
and  government  committees  at  each  organizational  level.  It  was 
assumed,  although  unproved,  that  the  provincial  forces,  irrespec- 
tive of  intervening  committees,  kept  in  close  touch  with  KPRAF 
main  force  units  and  headquarters,  and  with  Vietnamese  military 
garrisons  in  the  vicinity. 

The  provincial  forces  had  two  missions,  military  and  political. 
In  the  performance  of  the  former,  some  Western  analysts  hypothe- 
sized that  the  provincial  units  at  last  might  have  broken  their  de- 
pendency on  their  Vietnamese  military  mentors  and  have  learned 
to  operate  by  themselves.  This  premise  might  hold  true  if  the  provin- 
cial forces  were  deployed  only  in  their  home  provinces,  as  suspected, 
and  if  the  insurgents  continued  to  be  unable  to  mass  large  units. 


289 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  performance  of  their  political  mission,  the  provincial  forces 
were  expected  by  the  government  to  play  an  important  role  be- 
cause they  were  closer  to  the  people  than  were  the  regular  forces. 
This  role  included  both  propaganda  work  and  psychological 
warfare.  Propaganda  work  involved  building  the  loyalty  of  provin- 
cial residents  both  to  government  and  to  party  as  well  as  indoctri- 
nation in  KPRP  orthodoxy  and  in  Marxist-Leninist  ideology. 
Psychological  warfare  involved  measures  taken  against  the  enemy, 
such  as  inducements  to  defect,  arousal  of  hatred  against  them,  and 
neutralization  of  their  propaganda  appeals. 

The  third  echelon  in  the  KPRAF  consisted  of  the  village  militia, 
or  local  forces.  This  armed  force  originated  in  the  1979  to  1980 
period,  when  directives  by  the  party  and  the  newly  proclaimed 
government  mandated  the  raising  of  a  militia  in  each  village  and 
subdistrict.  This  objective  coincided  with  the  desire  of  the  Viet- 
namese military  authorities  to  create  small  local  force  units  in  the 
rural  communities  along  the  Thai-Cambodian  border,  thereby 
transforming  these  frontier  settlements  into  combat  hamlets  that 
would  help  to  keep  the  insurgents  at  bay.  According  to  instruc- 
tions relayed  to  village  authorities,  former  officials  and  soldiers  of 
the  defunct  Democratic  Kampuchea  regime  were  to  be  excluded 
from  the  militia,  and  preference  was  to  be  given  to  recruiting  former 
Khmer  Rouge  victims.  This  recruitment  policy  initially  was  quite 
successful,  as  there  was  no  dearth  of  Cambodians  who  had  either 
grievances  against  the  previous  regime  or  the  simple  desire  to  pro- 
tect their  homes  and  their  villages  from  attack  by  Khmer  Rouge 
guerrillas.  In  some  localities,  former  soldiers  of  the  Khmer  Republic 
who  had  escaped  the  purges  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  were  able 
to  dominate  the  militia.  In  others,  local  peasants  without  political 
antecedents  were  in  the  majority.  Villages  were  able  eventually  to 
raise  militia  forces  of  ten  to  twenty  personnel  each,  while  subdis- 
tricts  mustered  fifteen  to  thirty  personnel.  In  virtually  all  cases, 
militia  members  were  ill-trained  and  ill-equipped,  possessing  only 
Soviet  small  arms  from  Vietnam,  or  hand-me-down  United  States 
weapons  provided  years  before  to  the  Khmer  Republic. 

In  the  mid-to-late  1980s,  party  and  military  authorities  were  at- 
tempting to  consolidate  the  militia.  Indirect  evidence  suggested  that, 
among  the  Cambodian  citizenry,  enthusiasm  for  joining  the  local 
forces  had  waned  considerably  since  the  early  years  of  the  decade. 
Militia  units  were  formed  throughout  the  country,  nevertheless, 
even  in  the  hamlets,  in  the  individual  factories,  and  in  the  solidar- 
ity groups  working  in  the  rice  fields,  in  some  cases.  Some  units 
had  offensive  missions  to  search  out  guerrilla  bands  in  their  locali- 
ties and  to  destroy  them,  or  at  least  to  report  their  movement 
to  higher  military  authorities.  On  the  Thai  border,  the  militia 


290 


National  Security 


participated  in  Project  K-5.  The  militia  also  had  the  duties  of 
patrolling  and  protecting  this  barrier.  Away  from  the  frontier, 
however,  the  local  forces  generally  were  oriented  defensively  and, 
according  to  official  Cambodian  sources,  were  "entrusted  with  the 
duty  of  defending  production,  communication  lines,  production 
sites,  rubber  plantations,  fishing  grounds,  forest  exploitation  areas, 
and  so  on."  In  all  of  their  duties,  the  militia  units  reported  to  local 
party  and  government  committees,  which  in  turn  were  responsi- 
ble for  the  recruitment,  indoctrination,  and  training  of  militia  mem- 
bers. Some  financial  support  from  the  central  government,  however, 
may  have  been  available  to  local  authorities  to  raise  militia  units 
within  their  jurisdictions.  In  addition  to  their  military  and  secur- 
ity duties,  militia  members  were  expected  to  participate  in  econom- 
ically productive  activities  and  to  make  their  units  as  self-sufficient 
as  possible. 

Aside  from  the  three  levels  of  the  KPRAF  that  were  essentially 
ground  forces,  the  military  establishment  included  a  small  river- 
ine and  coastal  navy.  This  latter  force  consisted  of  one  battalion, 
of  undisclosed  strength,  which  had  the  mission  of  patrolling  the 
Tonle  Sap  (Great  Lake)  and  the  Tonle  Sab — a  river  emanating 
from  the  Tonle  Sap — between  the  lake  and  Phnom  Penh.  To  ac- 
complish its  mission,  the  riverine  navy  was  equipped  with  at  least 
three  patrol  craft,  each  armed  with  turret-mounted  75mm  guns 
and  with  twin  open-mounted  20mm  guns.  The  force  possessed  at 
least  one  landing  craft  with  a  modest  lift  capability  of  about  one 
platoon  at  a  time.  The  commander  of  the  riverine  navy  served  con- 
currently on  the  KPRAF  General  Staff,  where  he  may  have  per- 
formed the  functions  of  a  naval  chief  of  staff. 

An  embryonic  air  defense  corps  or  air  force  was  being  recon- 
stituted in  the  mid-to-late  1980s,  after  having  been  defunct  since 
the  days  of  the  Khmer  Republic.  Cambodian  pilots  and  techni- 
cians were  in  training  in  the  Soviet  Union;  some  already  had 
returned  home.  Thai  sources  reported  that  about  forty 
MiG-21/FISHBED  fighter  aircraft  were  either  on  order  or  already 
in  the  inventory.  The  delivery  or  order  of  Mi-8/HIP  transport 
helicopters  was  also  reported,  but  not  verified,  as  of  late  1987. 

Conditions  of  Service 

Military  service  was  compulsory  in  the  People's  Republic  of 
Kampuchea.  Cambodian  males  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and 
thirty-five  faced  an  obligation  to  serve  in  the  armed  forces  for  five 
years,  an  increase  from  three  years  was  made  in  1985  because  of 
personnel  shortages  in  the  country.  Recruitment  councils  made  up 
of  party  and  government  officials  existed  at  all  administrative  levels; 


291 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

they  may  have  performed  functions,  principally  the  selection  of  eligi- 
ble youths  to  be  inducted  into  the  military  services,  similar  to  those 
of  local  United  States  Selective  Service  Boards.  The  establishment 
of  these  recruitment  councils  may  have  supplanted  the  earlier  press- 
gang  tactics  of  KPRAF  units  who,  according  to  refugee  accounts, 
had  forcibly  rounded  up  Khmer  youths  and  had  inducted  them 
en  masse  into  the  armed  forces.  In  spite  of  this  bureaucratic  inno- 
vation, however,  draft  dodging  was  reported  to  be  widespread,  a 
situation  that  was  acknowledged  obliquely  by  the  government  and 
party  media  in  their  unrelenting  emphasis  on  recruitment  and  on 
the  patriotic  duty  of  serving  in  the  armed  forces.  It  was  not  known 
whether  or  not  Khmer  youths  themselves  could  elect  to  serve  in 
the  main,  provincial,  or  local  force,  or  whether  or  not  a  quota  sys- 
tem prevailed. 

Women  as  well  as  men  were  eligible  for  military  service.  A  party 
organ  reported  authoritatively  in  the  early  1980s  that  the  KPRAF 
was  composed  of  "cadres  and  male  and  female  combatants,"  and 
"our  people's  sons  and  daughters."  Women  were  heavily  repre- 
sented in  the  local  forces,  according  to  official  disclosures,  which 
stated  that  in  1987  more  than  28,000  were  enrolled  in  militia  units 
and  that  more  than  1 , 200  had  participated  in  the  construction  of 
frontier  fortifications  on  the  Thai-Cambodian  border.  The  presence 
of  women  in  the  provincial  and  in  the  main  forces,  however,  could 
not  be  verified. 

The  KPRAF,  with  the  aid  of  its  Vietnamese  and  Soviet  advisers, 
made  a  considerable  effort  to  establish  a  network  of  military  schools 
and  training  centers  for  its  personnel.  In  the  early  1980s,  about 
thirteen  such  institutions  were  reported  to  be  already  in  existence. 
Two  of  the  better  known  schools  in  Phnom  Penh  were  the  Engineer- 
ing School  and  the  Technical  School.  Each  of  these  schools  enrolled 
about  300  students,  in  curricula  lasting  one  year.  The  Engineer- 
ing School,  located  in  the  former  Cambodian  military  academy, 
offered  courses  in  radio,  telecommunications,  topography,  map 
reading,  mechanics,  and  civil  and  military  engineering.  Success- 
ful completion  of  courses  at  the  Engineering  School  qualified  gradu- 
ates for  the  Technical  School  (not  to  be  confused  with  the  civilian 
Kampuchean — USSR  Friendship  Technical  Institute).  The  Tech- 
nical School  offered  military  science  subjects,  such  as  weapons  and 
tactics,  a  higher  level  than  those  given  by  the  Engineering  School. 
Both  institutions  offered  language  instruction  in  Vietnamese 
and  in  Russian  as  well  as  heavy  doses  of  ideology.  In  Phnom  Penh, 
there  also  was  an  Infantry  School,  presumably  for  junior  offi- 
cers in  the  KPRAF;  a  Political  School  to  train  party  cadre  for  the 
armed  forces;  a  military  medical  school;  and  a  school  for  logistics. 


292 


National  Security 


Promising  graduates  of  the  KPRAF  school  system  had  the  chance 
to  go  abroad  for  further  military  education.  In  the  mid-1980s,  about 
1,000  KPRAF  officers  had  been  sent  to  schools  and  to  training 
centers  in  Vietnam,  and  an  additional  500  were  being  trained  in 
the  Soviet  Union.  This  international  military  education  and  training 
program,  as  well  as  the  entire  network  of  service  schools,  was  be- 
lieved to  be  administered  by  the  Training  Department  of  the 
KPRAF  General  Staff,  which  issued  specialized  training  directives 
in  the  name  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  to  subordinate 
echelons  down  to  the  local  force  level. 

Below  national  level,  each  KPRAF  military  region  had  its  own 
training  schools,  and  Cambodian  youths  who  joined  the  armed 
forces  were  believed  to  receive  their  initial  military  training  in  such 
institutions.  Instruction  reportedly  covered  political,  military,  tac- 
tical, and  vocational  subjects.  According  to  a  training  directive  is- 
sued in  1984,  provincial  and  local  forces  were  ordered  to  stress  unit 
training  and  to  vary  these  instructions  with  actual  combat  patrols 
and  operations.  Local  commanders  also  were  directed  to  conduct 
drills  for  cadres  and  combatants,  to  arrange  for  training  areas  and 
materials,  to  select  qualified  training  officers,  to  develop  training 
schedules,  and  to  select  personnel  for  course  enrollment. 

Recent  data  on  pay  and  allowances  in  the  KPRAF  were  lack- 
ing. In  the  early  1980s,  military  salaries  for  common  soldiers 
amounted  to  the  riel  (for  the  value  of  the  riel — see  Glossary)  equiva- 
lent of  three  to  four  dollars  a  month.  This  was  supplemented  by 
a  rice  ration  of  sixteen  to  twenty- two  kilograms  a  month,  supplied 
at  the  concessionary  rate  of  one  riel  per  kilogram.  Local  com- 
manders at  all  echelons  were  enjoined  to  ensure  the  timely  distri- 
bution of  pay  and  of  rations  to  all  personnel  under  their  jurisdiction. 
Soldiers  in  permanent  garrisons  were  expected  to  supplement  their 
meager  salaries  by  planting  individual  or  unit  vegetable  gardens 
and  by  raising  poultry  or  livestock  wherever  possible.  On  the  home 
front,  the  care  of  veterans  and  of  military  dependents  whose  spon- 
sors were  away  on  active  service  was  decentralized  and  entrusted 
to  the  solidarity  groups  (krom  samaki)  and  to  various  party  and 
government  committees  at  the  local  level. 

A  system  of  military  justice  existed  in  the  KPRAF,  but  its  func- 
tional details  were  unknown.  The  Constitution  provides  for  mili- 
tary tribunals,  and  the  KPRAF  maintained  a  network  of  military 
prisons.  At  the  national  level,  the  principal  military  prison  was  T-l , 
located  in  the  Tuol  Sleng  area  of  Phnom  Penh.  Administrators  of 
T-l  reported  to  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense.  Other  military 
prisons  existed  in  the  four  military  regions  of  the  KPRAF,  and 


293 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  B.  Branch  Insignia  of  the  Kampuchean,  or  Khmer, 
People's  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces,  1987 


Branch 

Insignia 

A  •  T? 

Air  Force 

Wing  on  a  star 

Armored 

Tank 

Artillery 

Crossed  cannon  barrels 

Lmemical 

Chemistry  sign  (retort?) 

Cultural 

Musical  notes 

XJllclllCvl 

T-Tali  ia  crparprl  wKf^l    prrwQpH  qKiovpI  q n rl  rnpk 
licui  ex  g^ai         wiittij  u  uoo^u  oiiuvti  aiiu  u  i  >x 

Infantry 

AK  assault  rifle  on  a  star 

Judge  Advocate 

Shield  with  stars  and  crossed  swords 

Medical 

Red  cross  on  a  white  disk 

Military  Band 

Trumpet 

Navy 

Anchor 

Quartermaster 

AK  assault  rifle  with  star  and  rice  sheaves 

Radar 

Radar  mounted  on  a  truck 

Transportation 

Steering  wheel  over  spring  shock  absorber 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Kangtap  Padevat  (Revolutionary  Army),  1  July  1987. 


possibly  at  the  provincial  level  as  well.  Military  police  of  the  KPRAF 
served  as  guards  and  as  administrators  of  the  military  penal  system. 

Military  uniforms  in  the  KPRAF  were  worn  by  the  main  and 
by  the  provincial  forces,  although  apparently  not  by  the  militia. 
In  general,  these  uniforms  resembled  those  of  Vietnam  and  the 
Soviet  Union.  Battle  dress  for  the  soldiers  consisted  of  green  or 
khaki  fatigues,  with  Soviet- style  soft  campaign  hats  (such  as  the 
Soviet  Army  wore  in  Afghanistan),  or  visored  caps  with  a  cloth 
chin  strap.  Although  not  part  of  the  uniform,  soldiers  on  an  oper- 
ation widely  wore  the  krama,  a  checkered  scarf  knotted  loosely  about 
the  neck.  Junior  officers  serving  on  staff  duty  or  attending  service 
schools  in  Phnom  Penh  wore  khaki  shirts  with  ties,  brown  trou- 
sers, and  the  round  service  cap.  The  cap  device  for  all  ranks  con- 
sisted of  a  five-towered,  stylized  rendition  of  Angkor  Wat  on  a  red 
field,  surrounded  by  a  wreath.  The  device  for  senior  ranks  showed 
more  elaborate  gold  ornamentation  around  the  wreath.  The 
KPRAF  owned  a  garment  factory  in  Phnom  Penh,  and  it  may  have 
produced  at  least  some  of  the  uniforms  it  needed  at  this  facility. 
The  KPRAF  also  authorized  a  system  of  rank  and  branch  insig- 
nia in  July  1987.  Although  photographic  evidence  was  lacking,  these 
insignia  were  believed  to  resemble  closely  those  of  the  Vietnamese 
army;  they  were  worn  on  collar  tabs  of  varying  colors:  scarlet  for 
the  army,  dark  blue  for  the  navy,  and  sky  blue  for  the  air  force 
(see  table  B).  These  branch  insignia  were  worn  by  personnel  up 
to  the  rank  of  deputy  platoon  commander.  Platoon  commanders 
to  deputy  regimental  commanders  wore  rank  insignia  on  collar  tabs 
with  silver  borders;  regimental  commanders  to  deputy  chiefs  of 


294 


National  Security 


military  regions  wore  similar  insignia  with  golden  borders.  Senior 
officers  from  military  region  commander  to  deputy  defense  minister 
wore  collar  tabs  with  a  golden  dragon  surrounded  by  an  ornate 
border  on  a  maroon  background. 

After  coming  to  power,  the  PRK  instituted  an  array  of  awards 
and  decorations  for  individuals,  military  units,  and  other  organi- 
zations which  performed  noteworthy  services  for  the  party  and  the 
state.  Identified  awards  or  decorations  included  the  Order  of  Ang- 
kor, the  Fatherland  Defense  Order  (first  and  second  class),  the  Vic- 
tory Medal  (first,  second,  and  third  class),  the  National  Defense 
Medal  (first,  second,  and  third  class),  and  the  Labor  Medal.  In 
addition  to  these  medals,  a  number  of  citations,  banners,  and 
streamers  were  awarded  by  various  government  ministries,  includ- 
ing the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  to  both  individuals  and 
organizations  for  meritorious  or  distinguished  performance  of  duty. 

Foreign  Troops  and  Advisers 

In  the  late  1980s,  Vietnamese  units  stationed  in  Cambodia 
represented  a  military  force  that  had  broken  away  from  its  revolu- 
tionary tradition  and  had  become  an  army  of  occupation,  a  dra- 
matic role  change  in  view  of  the  fact  that  its  most  formidable 
adversaries,  the  Khmer  Rouge,  were  fellow  communists  and  former 
allies.  Consistendy  designated  by  Hanoi  as  "the  Vietnamese  volun- 
teer army  in  Kampuchea,"  the  Vietnamese  force,  comprising  some 
ten  to  twelve  divisions,  was  made  up  of  conscripts  who  supported 
a  "regime  of  military  administration." 

Military  units  totalling  as  many  as  200,000  troops  invaded  Cam- 
bodia at  the  end  of  1978  to  eradicate  the  Khmer  Rouge  regime 
of  Democratic  Kampuchea  and  to  install  a  more  pliant  government 
in  Phnom  Penh.  After  several  years,  Vietnam  ostensibly  began  to 
decrease  the  size  of  its  military  contingent  in  Cambodia.  The  first 
recorded,  but  unannounced,  withdrawal  occurred  in  June  1981, 
when  Vietnam's  137th  Division  returned  home.  In  July  1982, 
Hanoi  announced  publicly  that  as  an  "act  of  goodwill"  it  would 
withdraw  an  unspecified  number  of  troops  from  Cambodia.  These 
withdrawals  became  annual  occurrences.  In  1986  Vietnamese 
sources  announced  a  pullout  of  12,000  troops.  In  November  1987, 
an  additional  20,000  Vietnamese  military  personnel  were  with- 
drawn. These  retrenchments  were  conducted  with  considerable  pub- 
licity and  fanfare,  including  departure  ceremonies  in  Phnom  Penh 
and  featuring  medals  for  commanders  and  citations  for  units.  Skep- 
tics, however,  contended  that  these  movements  were  merely  troop 
rotations.  A  1987  study  conducted  by  Chulalongkorn  University 


295 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


in  Bangkok  reached  the  same  conclusion,  after  its  researchers  in- 
terviewed groups  of  Vietnamese  defectors. 

Hanoi  publicly  committed  itself  to  withdraw  its  occupation  forces 
by  1990.  It  first  announced  this  decision  following  an  August  1985 
meeting  of  Vietnamese,  Laotian,  and  Cambodian  foreign  ministers. 
The  commitment  to  a  pullout  engendered  continuing  discussion, 
both  by  foreign  observers  and  by  Indochinese  participants.  What 
emerged  was  the  clarifying  qualification  that  a  total  Vietnamese 
military  withdrawal  was  contingent  upon  the  progress  of  pacifica- 
tion in  Cambodia  and  upon  the  ability  of  the  KPRAF  to  contain 
the  insurgent  threat  without  Vietnamese  assistance.  Prime  Minister 
Hun  Sen  declared  in  a  May  1987  interview  that  "if  the  situation 
evolves  as  is,  we  are  hopeful  that  by  1990  all  Vietnamese  troops 
will  be  withdrawn  .  .  .  [but]  if  the  troop  withdrawal  will  be  taken 
advantage  of,  we  will  have  to  negotiate  to  take  appropriate  mea- 
sures. .  .  Shortly  thereafter,  a  KPRAF  battalion  commander 
told  a  Phnom  Penh  press  conference  that  "Vietnamese  forces  could 
remain  in  Cambodia  beyond  1990,  if  the  Khmer  Rouge  resistance 
continues  to  pose  a  threat."  In  an  interview  with  a  Western  cor- 
respondent, Vietnamese  Foreign  Minister  Nguyen  Co  Thach 
repeated  the  1990  withdrawal  pledge,  insisting  that  only  foreign 
military  intervention  could  convince  Hanoi  to  change  its  plans. 
Some  ASEAN  and  Western  observers  greeted  declarations  of  a  total 
pullout  by  1990  with  incredulity.  Departing  Vietnamese  units 
reportedly  left  equipment  behind  in  Cambodia,  and  it  was  suggested 
that  they  easily  could  return  if  it  looked  as  though  a  province  might 
be  lost. 

As  Hanoi's  military  presence  in  Cambodia  approached  its  ninth 
year,  it  appeared  that  the  Vietnamese  troops  stationed  there  were 
not  frontline  veterans.  Most  of  Vietnam's  main  force  units  and 
its  best  troops  were  deployed  in  the  Red  River  Delta  or  on  Viet- 
nam's northern  border  to  contain  any  armed  threat  from  China. 
Units  in  Cambodia  were  composed  of  conscripts  from  the  southern 
provinces  of  Vietnam,  or,  according  to  refugee  accounts,  of  mili- 
tary misfits  and  "troublemakers."  Some  Vietnamese  defectors  in 
Thailand  declared  that  they  had  volunteered  for  military  service 
to  get  out  of  Vietnam  and  to  have  an  opportunity  for  resettlement 
in  third  countries. 

Vietnam's  presence  in  Cambodia  reportedly  consumed  40  to  50 
percent  of  Hanoi's  military  budget.  Although  substantial  portions 
of  the  cost  had  been  underwritten  by  Soviet  grant  aid,  Vietnamese 
troops  in  Cambodia  apparendy  were  on  short  rations.  Radio  Hanoi 
reportedly  commented  on  troops  "dressed  in  rags,  puritanically 
fed,  and  mostly  disease  ridden."  The  parlous  state  of  Vietnamese 


296 


International  solidarity:  a  Cambodian  repairman  fixes  the 
motorbike  of  a  Vietnamese  soldier  at  a  Phnom  Penh  curbside. 

Courtesy  Bill  Herod 

forces  in  Cambodia  also  was  the  subject  of  a  report  by  the  director 
of  an  Hanoi  military  medical  institute.  According  to  media  ac- 
counts, the  report  acknowledged  that  Vietnamese  troops  in  the 
country  suffered  from  widespread  and  serious  malnutrition  and  that 
beriberi  occurred  in  epidemic  proportions. 

The  Vietnamese  military  headquarters  in  Cambodia  was  located 
at  Chamka  Morn  in  Phnom  Penh.  In  the  mid-1980s,  it  was  respon- 
sible to  the  Vietnamese  Fourth  Corps  commander,  at  that  time 
General  Le  Due  Anh  (subsequentiy  promoted  to  minister  of  na- 
tional defense).  Vietnamese  military  authorities  divided  Cambo- 
dia into  four  military  regions.  These  areas  probably  coincided  with 
KPRAF  regions.  Each  of  these  regions,  in  turn,  corresponded  to 
a  Vietnamese  military  front  that  exercised  tactical  responsibility 
over  it.  The  four  Vietnamese  military  fronts  were  Front  479,  head- 
quartered at  Barai  Toek  Thla  Airport,  Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey 
Province;  Front  579,  at  Stoeng  Treng  City,  Stoeng  Treng  Province; 
Front  779,  at  the  Chhupp  rubber  plantation,  Kampong  Cham 
Province;  and  Front  979,  at  Somrong  Tong,  Kampong  Spoe 
Province.  Front  479  was  considered  the  most  critical  because  of 
heavy  insurgent  activity  in  the  area.  A  Special  Military  Adminis- 
trative Zone  was  also  created,  comprising  the  vital  heartland  of 
the  country  around  the  Tonle  Sap  and  the  alluvial  plain  to  the 


297 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


southeast.  The  relationship  of  the  zone  to  the  military  regions  and 
to  the  fronts  was  undetermined.  Along  the  Cambodian  coast,  the 
Vietnamese  established  another  type  of  military  jurisdiction.  Naval 
Zone  Five  comprised  the  shore  lines  of  Kaoh  Kong  and  Kampot 
provinces  and  their  contiguous  territorial  waters.  The  headquar- 
ters of  the  naval  zone  was  at  Kampong  Saom. 

Vietnamese  military  advisers  also  were  detached  to  serve  with 
KPRAF  main  and  provincial  forces  down  to  the  battalion,  and 
perhaps  even  the  company,  level.  The  functions  and  the  chain  of 
command  of  these  advisers  remained  unknown,  except  that  it  could 
be  assumed  that  they  reported  to  the  Vietnamese  military  region 
or  front  headquarters. 

Law  Enforcement  and  Countersubversion 

People's  Security  Service 

Law  enforcement  was  the  responsibility  of  the  minister  of  in- 
terior, who,  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  Ministers,  was  charged 
by  the  Constitution  "to  protect  the  interests  of  the  people,  preserve 
security  and  public  order  and  protect  the  legal  rights  and  interests 
of  the  citizens."  To  carry  out  these  functions,  the  ministry  exer- 
cised control  over  its  own  corps  of  plainclothes  police  and  over  the 
People's  Security  Service.  In  the  late  1980s,  nothing  was  known 
publicly  about  the  ministry's  agents,  except  that  they  fulfilled  coun- 
tersubversion responsibilities  and  that  they  may  have  been  advised 
by  Vietnamese  and  by  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
man) personnel.  In  1987  the  People's  Security  Service  consisted 
of  a  plainclothes  branch  and  a  uniformed  police  force  called  the 
Nokorbal  (civil  police).  Total  personnel  strength  was  undisclosed. 
Day-to-day  administration  of  the  entire  organization  was  carried 
out  by  the  deputy  minister  of  interior,  under  whom  People's  Secu- 
rity Service  staff  functions  were  carried  out  by  fifteen  departments 
or  bureaus.  Some  of  these  subministerial  offices,  such  as  the  traffic 
and  the  criminal  police  bureaus,  performed  routine  law-enforcement 
functions.  Others  rendered  support  services,  such  as  internal  ad- 
ministration and  supply,  and  still  others  fulfilled  countersubver- 
sion responsibilities.  Among  the  latter  were  the  political  ideology- 
bureau,  which  performed  loyalty  checks  on  party  cadres;  the  po- 
litical security  bureau,  which  arrested  persons  suspected  of  politi- 
cal offenses:  and  an  internal  defense  bureau,  or  unit,  which 
investigated  government  ministries  and  offices. 

In  Phnom  Penh  itself,  police  were  organized  into  seven  precinct 
or  ward  offices,  with  an  additional  thirteen  precincts  in  the  greater 
capital  area.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the  chief  of  the  Phnom  Penh  police 


298 


National  Security 


served  concurrently  as  the  deputy  minister  of  interior.  The  organiza- 
tional functions  of  the  capital  police  staff  approximately  replicated 
those  of  the  Ministry  of  Interior  at  the  national  level.  Observers 
identified  fourteen  different  bureaus,  dealing  with  political  security, 
interrogation,  political  ideology,  internal  defense,  clandestine  in- 
vestigations, case  analysis,  organization/ appointments,  supply, 
forensics/poly technics,  administration,  statistical,  defense  police 
(embassy  and  government  building  security  guards),  firefighting, 
and  traffic  control.  A  defecting  police  official  estimated  that  arrests 
in  the  capital  for  both  political  and  criminal  offenses  averaged  about 
100  per  month  in  the  1980s. 

At  the  provincial  level,  police  authority  was  vested  in  a  chief  of 
the  People's  Security  Service  who  was  responsible  to  the  KUFNCD 
provincial  committee  and,  through  channels,  to  the  Ministry  of 
Interior.  The  police  sought  to  maintain  a  physical  presence  at  least 
as  far  down  as  the  district  level  and,  where  possible,  as  far  down 
as  the  commune  level.  Police  officials  in  the  countryside  were 
responsible  both  to  their  local  party  and  government  committees 
and  to  law-enforcement  authorities  at  the  next  higher  echelon.  In 
areas  without  a  police  presence,  law-enforcement  responsibilities 
devolved  upon  local  party  or  government  officials. 

Police  control  of  the  population  outside  the  cities  was  assisted 
by  a  pass  system.  Such  passes  were  issued  by  local  committees  and 
were  required  for  travel  among  villages,  districts,  and  provinces. 
Frequent  checkpoints  by  police  and  by  military  personnel  along 
principal  routes  ensured  compliance  by  travelers.  Violators  of  the 
pass  system  were  subjected  to  brief  incarceration  upon  being  ap- 
prehended and  to  heightened  surveillance  upon  returning  home. 
According  to  defectors,  however,  checkpoint  personnel  were  sus- 
ceptible to  bribery. 

Protection  under  the  Law 

The  protection  of  all  Cambodians  by  the  law  is  guaranteed  by 
the  1981  Constitution,  which  declares  that  the  state  "recognizes 
and  respects  human  rights"  and  that  it  protects  "the  honor,  dig- 
nity and  life  of  its  citizens"  (see  The  Constitution,  ch.  4).  In  the 
mid-1980s,  lawyers  in  the  Ministry  of  Justice  had  published  some 
legal  texts  and  statutes,  but  by  late  1987,  it  was  not  possible  to  verify 
the  existence  of  a  comprehensive  criminal  and  civil  code.  Decree- 
laws  promulgated  in  1980  paid  considerable  attention  to  political 
offenses,  and  they  prescribed  five  levels  of  punishment  for  such 
crimes.  A  first-level  offense,  such  as  aiding  or  abetting  an  individual 
known  to  be  "a  traitor  to  the  revolution,"  was  punishable  by  two 
to  seven  years'  imprisonment.  A  second-level  offense,  such  as 


299 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


subversion  or  economic  sabotage,  was  punishable  by  imprisonment 
for  between  five  and  ten  years.  Third-level  offenses,  which  included 
the  crime  of  taking  up  arms  against  the  state,  were  punishable  by 
five  to  fifteen  years'  imprisonment.  A  fourth-level  offense,  defined 
as  plotting  to  overthrow  the  state  or  committing  "  treason  against 
the  revolution,"  and  punishable  by  ten  to  twenty  years'  imprison- 
ment. Fifth-level  offenses,  which  included  compounded  acts  of  se- 
dition by  individuals  in  positions  of  authority,  acts  of  rebellion  by 
insurgent  leaders,  and  acts  of  spying  by  operatives  who  maintained 
espionage  networks  carried  sentences  of  twenty  years  to  life  im- 
prisonment and  even  the  death  penalty.  A  further  decree-law, 
promulgated  around  1983,  also  addressed  crimes  against  the  state, 
such  as  treason,  but  included  common-law  offenses,  such  as  murder, 
rape,  and  theft.  Penalties  for  political  crimes  generally  remained 
the  same  as  they  were  in  the  earlier  law.  For  common-law  crimes 
such  as  murder,  however,  offenders  were  subject  to  ten  to  twenty 
years'  imprisonment;  for  aggravated  assault,  six  months  to  ten 
years;  for  rape,  two  to  five  years;  for  rape  followed  by  murder, 
twenty  years  to  life  with  the  possibility  of  a  death  sentence.  People 
convicted  of  theft  were  subject  to  confinement  for  a  period  of  six 
months  to  fifteen  years.  Former  Khmer  Rouge  cadres  who  were 
convicted  of  outrageous  crimes  against  humanity  faced  the  death 
sentence.  Such  sentences,  however,  had  to  be  approved  by  the 
Council  of  State  (see  Government  Structure,  ch.  4). 

The  first  courts  in  the  PRK  were  the  people's  revolutionary  courts 
set  up  almost  on  an  ad  hoc  basis  by  the  Kampuchean  People's 
Revolutionary  Council  in  1979.  Establishment  of  a  more  institu- 
tionalized system  took  place  in  approximately  1983.  At  this  time, 
a  network  of  courts  was  extended  to  each  province  and  municipal- 
ity. Officers  of  each  court  included  a  president,  one  or  two  vice 
presidents,  and  a  judge.  A  reporting  channel  presumably  connected 
these  local  courts  to  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  but,  as  of  late  1987, 
its  existence  had  not  been  confirmed.  Similarly,  a  People's  Supreme 
Court,  evidently  under  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  was  established  in 
the  early  1980s,  but  its  functions  continued  to  be  obscure. 

The  independence  of  the  judiciary  at  all  levels  remained  in  ques- 
tion. According  to  a  1982  decree-law,  the  purpose  of  the  courts 
was  to  uphold  the  policies  of  the  government.  Officers  of  the  court 
were  appointed  by  local  party  and  government  committees  with 
the  apparent  concurrence  of  the  Ministry  of  Justice.  Court  offi- 
cials thus  were  responsible  to  the  committees  that  recruited  them. 

The  power  to  arrest  and  to  detain  for  political  or  for  criminal 
offenses  was  quite  widespread  among  government  bodies.  It  ex- 
tended from  the  agents  of  the  Ministry  of  Interior  to  the  People's 


300 


Divided  loyalties: 
A  Phnom  Penh  policeman 
minds  his  child  while 
guarding  a  hotel. 
Courtesy  Bill  Herod 


Security  Service  and  to  the  military  units  of  the  main,  provincial, 
and  local  forces.  Refugee  and  defector  accounts  indicate  that  sus- 
picion rather  than  evidence  frequently  sufficed  to  cause  the  arrest 
of  a  suspect.  A  1987  Amnesty  International  report  stated  that  ar- 
rested individuals  were  denied  information  about  the  charges  against 
them  and  were  frequendy  imprisoned  without  trial.  Detention  rou- 
tinely was  followed  by  interrogation,  accompanied  by  repeated  beat- 
ings and  by  torture.  In  an  effort  to  correct  the  most  flagrant  of  these 
abuses,  the  government  promulgated  its  decree-law  of  March  12, 
1986.  According  to  Amnesty  International,  this  statute  "codifies 
and  modifies  non-legislative  instructions  against  torture,  rules  on 
search  procedures  and  regulations  concerning  powers  of  arrest  and 
length  of  detention  for  interrogation."  Amnesty  International  fur- 
ther observed  that  this  was  "the  first  PRK  law  to  address  issues 
directly  related  to  human  rights  in  these  areas." 

Accused  persons  were  accorded  relatively  few  constitutional 
safeguards.  They  had  the  right  to  a  defense  counsel,  but  they  could 
represent  themselves.  Fragmentary  information  reaching  Amnesty 
International  demonstrated  that  individual  guilt  or  innocence — 
especially  that  relating  to  political  crimes — was  not  decided  on  the 
basis  of  judicial  proceedings,  but  was  determined  beforehand  by 
the  arresting  authorities  following  interrogation.  Guilty  persons  then 
were  sentenced  administratively  without  due  process.  In  the  few 
cases  brought  to  trial,  the  court  confined  itself  to  ratifying  the 


301 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

sentence  already  decided  upon  behind  the  scenes.  Defendants  who 
were  dissatisfied  with  a  court  ruling  theoretically  had  the  right  to 
appeal,  but  the  procedures  remained  unclarified,  and  the  role  of 
the  People's  Supreme  Court  as  the  final  arbiter  of  judicial  deci- 
sions was  unknown. 

Penal  System 

Individuals  sentenced  to  imprisonment,  as  a  result  of  adminis- 
trative or  judicial  proceedings,  were  incarcerated  in  one  of  a  na- 
tionwide network  of  about  200  prisons.  These  installations  were 
administered  by  the  Prison  Directorate  of  the  Ministry  of  Interior 
and  by  the  People's  Security  Service.  They  constituted  a  many- 
tiered  system  extending  from  the  national  level  to  the  local  level. 
At  the  national  level,  the  principal  prison  was  T-3,  located  in 
Phnom  Penh.  This  institution  was  built  in  the  early  twentieth  cen- 
tury, and  it  has  served  as  a  prison  for  every  successive  regime  to 
hold  power  in  Cambodia.  The  facilities  were  enlarged  when  the 
present  government  was  installed  in  1979.  In  the  mid-1980s,  it  held 
about  1,000  prisoners.  Administration  of  T-3  was  shared  by  the 
Ministry  of  Interior  and  by  the  Phnom  Penh  People's  Security  Ser- 
vice, which  used  the  facility  to  confine  some  its  own  prisoners  ap- 
prehended in  the  capital  area.  In  addition  to  the  T-3  central  prison, 
two  other  national  penal  institutions,  code-named  T-4  and  T-5, 
were  reported.  Both  functioned  as  labor  camps,  and  they  appeared 
not  to  be  maximum  security  prisons.  T-4,  located  on  the  outskirts 
of  the  capital,  was  administered  by  the  Phnom  Penh  People's  Secu- 
rity Service;  T-5,  in  Kampong  Cham,  administered  by  the  provin- 
cial People's  Security  Service.  Overall  responsibility  for  T-4  and 
for  T-5  may  have  rested  with  the  Bureau  of  Reform  Offices  of  the 
Prison  Directorate. 

Each  of  Phnom  Penh's  twenty  wards  or  precincts  had  its  own 
short-term  confinement  facility.  The  precincts,  however,  had  to 
transfer  their  prisoners  after  three  days  to  the  central  People's  Secu- 
rity Service  headquarters  for  confinement  in  T-3 .  Away  from  the 
capital,  independent  municipalities  (such  as  Kampong  Saom), 
provinces,  and  districts  all  had  their  own  jails  and  prisons.  These 
facilities  usually  were  administered  by  the  People's  Security  Ser- 
vice at  the  provincial  level,  and  at  lower  lower  echelons.  One  of 
the  better  known  provincial  prisons  was  TK-1  in  Batdambang  city; 
the  installation  was  taxed  to  the  utmost  in  its  role  as  a  detention 
facility  for  captured  guerrillas,  smugglers,  border-crossers,  and  in- 
surgent sympathizers,  because  of  its  location  in  an  area  of  heavy 
resistance  activity.  The  capacity  and  status  of  other  provincial  pri- 
sons could  not  be  verified.  Given  the  regime's  lack  of  resources, 


302 


National  Security 


conditions  in  all  of  them  must  have  been  spartan,  if  not  appalling. 
In  some  of  them,  inmates  were  taken  out  on  work  details  to  per- 
form manual  labor,  such  as  brush-clearing,  ditchdigging,  or  dike- 
construction;  however,  this  may  have  been  on  an  ad  hoc,  rather 
than  on  an  institutionalized,  basis.  Prisoners  who  had  served  their 
sentences  were  freed  by  a  release  order  signed  by  People's  Security 
Service  or  Ministry  of  Interior  officials  and  were  permitted  to  return 
to  their  home  areas.  Former  detainees  kept  their  release  papers  on 
their  persons  or  near  at  hand,  as  a  safeguard  against  rearrest. 

The  law-enforcement  apparatus  in  the  PRK,  like  the  armed 
forces,  became  more  institutionalized  as  the  decade  of  the  1980s 
progressed,  but  how  well  the  two  establishments  coordinated  to  in- 
sure national  security  at  all  levels  remained  open  to  question.  These 
establishments  did  represent,  however,  the  institutional  founda- 
tions laid  down  by  the  regime  and  by  the  ruling  party  in  order  to 
retain  power,  ensure  ideological  orthodoxy,  and  impart  a  measure 
of  internal  stability.  In  the  turmoil  of  a  war-ravaged  country,  the 
fact  that  these  institutions  had  been  created  represented  an 
accomplishment — human  rights  issues  aside — for  the  government 
and  for  its  Vietnamese  mentors.  In  a  broader  sense,  these  institu- 
tions were  part  of  the  sovereign  nationhood  that  Cambodia  was 
striving  to  regain  while  deferring  uneasily,  but  pragmatically,  to 
Vietnam. 

*    *  * 

No  published  monographs  address,  either  comprehensively  or 
specifically,  the  armed  forces  or  law-enforcement  bodies  of  Cam- 
bodia. Fragmentary  accounts  are  given  in  the  works  described 
below.  The  reference  for  Khmer  warfare  in  ancient  times  is  Horace 
Geoffrey  Quaritch  Wales's,  Ancient  South-east  Asian  Warfare.  The 
Japanese  occupation  period  is  briefly  covered  in  Joyce  C.  Lebra's 
Japanese-Trained  Armies  in  Southeast  Asia.  For  the  French  colonial 
period  and  for  the  early  part  of  the  Sihanouk  era,  up  to  1953,  use- 
ful information  is  found  in  Maurice  Laurent's  L  'Armee  au  Cambodge 
et  dans  les  pays  en  voie  de  developpement  du  Sud-est  asiatique.  The  most 
concise  reference  on  the  Cambodian  armed  forces  of  the  Khmer 
Republic  is  Sak  Sutsakhan's  The  Khmer  Republic  at  War  and  the  Final 
Collapse.  For  information  on  United  States  security  assistance  to 
the  Cambodian  armed  forces  and  on  its  associated  problems,  an 
authoritative  source  is  by  the  General  Accounting  Office  of  the 
United  States,  U.S.  Assistance  to  the  Khmer  Republic  (Cambodia),  Report 
to  the  Congress.  The  armed  forces  under  the  Khmer  Rouge  are  dis- 
cussed in  two  essential  sources:  Craig  Etcheson's,  The  Rise  and  Demise 


303 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

of  Democratic  Kampuchea  and  Ben  Kiernan's  How  Pol  Pot  Came  to 
Power.  Authoritative  accounts  of  the  Vietnamese  invasion  and  of 
the  reconstitution  of  the  Cambodian  armed  forces,  are  given  in 
Nayan  Chanda's  Brother  Enemy,  The  War  After  the  War  and  in 
Elizabeth  Becker's  When  the  War  Was  Over.  Timothy  Carney's 
"Heng  Samrin's  Armed  Forces  and  the  Military  Balance  in  Cam- 
bodia," International  Journal  of  Politics,  Fall  1986,  continues  to  be 
a  seminal  piece  indispensable  to  a  discussion  of  the  KPRAF, 
although  by  the  late  1980s  some  of  the  information  was  dated.  Other 
treatments  of  the  KPRAF  and  the  insurgency  in  Cambodia  are 
given  in  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook.  This  publication  is 
issued  annually,  and  its  discussion  of  Cambodian  affairs  from  a 
defense  point  of  view  has  become  more  comprehensive  over  the 
years.  Personnel  and  military  equipment  figures  for  Cambodia  are 
given  in  The  Military  Balance. 

Law-enforcement  and  security  agencies,  discussed  from  a  human 
rights  perspective  rather  than  as  government  institutions,  are  dealt 
with  in  Floyd  Abram's  and  Diane  Orentlicher's  Kampuchea:  After 
the  Worst  and  Kampuchea:  Political  Imprisonment  and  Torture  by  Amnesty 
International.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography). 


304 


Appendix  A 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population,  Selected  Years 

3  Population  Distribution,  1987 

4  Growth  of  Schools  and  of  Student  Enrollment  in  the  People's 

Republic  of  Kampuchea,  1979-84 

5  Land  Use,  1980-85 

6  Production  of  Wood  and  Lumber,  Selected  Years 

7  Area  under  Principal  Food  Crops,  Selected  Years 

8  Rice  Production  by  Harvest  Season,  Selected  Years 

9  Rice  Production,  Selected  Years 

10  Production  of  Principal  Secondary  Crops,  Selected  Years 

11  Index  Number  of  Agricultural  Production,  Selected  Years 

12  Seafood  Catch,  Selected  Years 

13  Long-term  External  Debt,  1980-84 

14  Trade  with  the  Soviet  Union,  1982-87 

15  Net  Flows  of  Resources  of  Cambodia,  Selected  Years 

16  Major  Weapons  of  the  Kampuchean,  or  Khmer,  People's 

Revolutionary  Armed  Forces,  1987 


305 


Appendix  A 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

feet 

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2) 

  2.47 

acres 

Square  kilometers    .  . 

  0.39 

square  miles 

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Population,  Selected  Years 

Province 

1950 

1968  (est.) 

1981  1 

  371,000 

685,000 

719,000 

  570,711 

977,000 

1,070,000 

Kampong  Chhnang 

  196,000 

331,000 

221,000 

  176,469 

361,000 

340,000 

  211,500 

379,000 

379,000 

  252,968 

414,000 

354,000 

  527,993 

805,000 

720,000 

45,000 

25,000 

  79,439 

162,000 

157,000 

17,000 

16,000 

50,000 

Siemreab  2 

  129,653 

223,000 

175,000 

45,000 

70,000 

  361,029 

558,000 

672,000 

56,000 

45,000 

  215,000 

371,000 

477,000 

  207,050 

346,000 

292,000 

  47,000 

44,000 

39,000 

  364,295 

541,000 

531,000 

TOTAL   

  3,710,107 

6,410,000 

6,302,000 

1  The  last  census  taken  by  the  People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea  was  in  1981. 

2  Indicates  population  included  in  the  province  the  name  of  which  follows. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  David  J.  Steinberg,  Cambodia:  Its  People,  Its  Society,  Its 
Culture,  New  Haven,  1959,  291 ;  Jacques  Migozzi,  Cambodge:  faits  et  problemes  de popu- 
lation, Paris,  1973,  np;  and  Kimmo  Kiljunen,  ed.,  Kampuchea:  Decade  of  the  Genocide — 
Report  of  a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission,  London,  1984,  31. 


307 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Population  Distribution,  1987 
(in  thousands) 


Percent  of 

Categories  Population  total  population 

Male    3,231,000  50.0 

Female    3,232,000  50.0 

TOTAL    6,463,000  100.0 

Urban   724,000  11.2 

Rural    5,739,000  88.8 

TOTAL    6,463,000  100.0 

Age  0-14    2,227,000  34.5 

Age  15-64    4,040,000  62.5 

Age  65+    196,000  3.0 

TOTAL    6,463,000  100.0 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Bureau  of  the  Census,  unpublished  com- 
puterized data  on  world  population,  Washington,  1987. 


Table  4.  Growth  of  Schools  and  of  Student  Enrollment  in  the  People's  Republic 
of  Kampuchea,  1979-84 

Grade  1979-80            1980-81             1981-82  1983-84 
Grades  1-4  (Level  I) 

Schools    5,290            4,334  1           3,521  1  3,005  1 

Pupils    947,317  1,328,053  1,508,985  1,542,825 

Teachers    21,605           30,316            37,000  2  33,479 

Grades  5-7  (Level  II) 

Schools    14  62  108  200 

Pupils    5,104  17,331  39,434  146,865 

Teachers    206  671  1,600  2  4,329 

Grades  8-10  (Level  III) 

Schools    1  2                   5  13 

Pupils    301  555  1,521  6,969 

Teachers    20  28                  78  2  277 

1  Reflects  regrouping  and  consolidation  of  schools. 

2  Planned  figures. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Michael  Vickery,  Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics,  and 
Society,  London  and  Boulder,  Colorado,  1986,  155;  and  Kimmo  Kiljunen,  ed.,  Kam- 
Decade  of  the  Genocide — Report  of  a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission,  London,  1984,  40. 


308 


Appendix  A 


Table  5.  Land  Use,  1980-85 
(in  thousands  of  hectares) 


Land  Use 

1980 

1985 

  3,046 

3,056 

  89 

90 

  2,957 

2,966 

  580 

580 

  13,372 

13,372 

  654 

644 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Statistical  Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  1986-87,  Bangkok, 
1987,  107. 


Table  6.  Production  of  Wood  and  Lumber,  Selected  Years 
(in  thousands  of  cubic  meters) 

Type  1979  1981  1983  1985 
Fuel  wood 

(including  charcoal)    4,189  4,271  4,498  4,736 

Industrial  wood 

(sawn  logs,  veneer,  etc.)   567          567  567  567 

TOTAL    4,756  4,838  5,065  5,303 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Statistical  Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  1986-87,  Bangkok, 
1987,  108. 


Table  7.  Area  under  Principal  Food  Crops,  Selected  Years 
(in  thousands  of  hectares) 


Crop  1980  1982  1984  1986 


Rice   1,356  1,680            1,700  1,700 

Maize    99  30  33  31 

Cassavas    25  10  13  15 

Sweet  potatoes   2  2  3  3 

Groundnuts    5  5  9  10 

Soybeans    1  1  1  1 

Sesame  seeds    8  10  12  13 

Dry  beans    28  3  7  40  41 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Statistical  Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  1986-87,  Bangkok, 
1987,  108. 


309 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  8.  Rice  Production,  Selected  Years 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


1980 

1982 

1984 

1986 

Paddy  rice   

  1,470 

1,400 

1,970 

2,140 

  911 

868 

1,221 

1,327 

*  Milled  rice  is  computed  as  62  percent  of  the  paddy  crop 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Statistical  Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  1986-87,  Bangkok, 
1987,  108,  and  Asian  Development  Bank,  Economic  Office,  Key  Indicators  of  De- 
veloping Member  Countries  of  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  xviii,  New  York,  1987,  15. 


Table  9.  Rice  Production  by  Harvest  Season,  Selected  Years 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


1980-81 

1982-83 

1984-85 

1986-87 

Paddy  rice   

  1,300 

1,563 

1,113 

2,000  1 

  806 

969 

690 

1,240  2 

1  Estimate. 

2  Milled  rice  is  computed  as  62  percent  of  the  paddy  crop. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Peter  Schier,  "Kampuchea  in  1985 — Between  Croco- 
diles and  Tigers,"  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1986,  Singapore,  1987,  157,  and 
Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile,  1987-88,  Indochina:  Vietnam,  Laos,  Cam- 
bodia, London,  December  1987,  46. 


Table  10.  Production  of  Principal  Secondary  Crops,  Selected  Years 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Crops  1980  1982  1984  1986 


Maize    100  46  90  92 

Cassavas    150  61  95  100 

Sweet  potatoes   15  17  30  34 

Groundnuts    3  5  8  10 

Soybeans    1  1  1  2 

Sesame  seeds    3  3  6  6 

Dry  beans    17  26  30  37 

Rubber    6  8  13  24.5 


310 


Appendix  A 


Table  11.  Index  Number  of  Agricultural  Production,  Selected  Years* 

1980  1982  1984  1986 


All  commodities   113  117  154  165 

Food   113  118  154  163 

Cereals    130  117  173  176 

Per  capita  food 

production    115  113  140  142 

Per  capita  cereal 

production    132  112  157  152 


•1979-81  =  100  ' 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Statistical  Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  1986-87,  Bangkok, 
1987,  107. 


Table  12.  Seafood  Catch,  Selected  Years 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Source 

1980 

1982 

1984 

1986 

  20.0 

68.7 

57.0 

62.2 

Deep  sea/Coastal  waters   

  7.0 

5.5 

5.5 

n.a. 

TOTAL   

  27.0 

74.2 

62.5 

62.2 

n.a. — not  available 


Table  13.  Long-Term  External  Debt,  1980-84 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Year 

Amount 

1980 

251 

1981 

244 

1982 

368 

1983 

426 

1984 

491 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Asian  Development  Bank,  Economic  Office,  Key  Indi- 
cators of  Developing  Member  Countries  of  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  xviii,  New  York, 
1987,  55. 


311 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14.  Trade  with  the  Soviet  Union,  1982-87 
(in  millions  of  rubles  *) 


1982  2 

1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

Imports  (from  the 

53.4 

67.8 

76.2 

91.2 

114.0 

112.0 

Exports  (to  the 

Soviet  Union)  

2.3 

4.0 

5.2 

9.1 

8.7 

11.2 

TOTAL   

55.7 

71.8 

81.4 

100.3 

122.7 

123.2 

1  For  value  of  the  ruble — see  Glossary. 

2  No  trade  is  recorded  prior  to  1982. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics,  Ministry  of  For- 
eign Trade,  Vneshniaia  Torgovlia  (Foreign  Trade)  Moscow,  various  issues,  1983-87. 


Table  15.  Net  Flows  of  Resources  of  Cambodia,  Selected  Years 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1979 

1981 

1983 

1985 

108.1 

130.0 

36.7 

12.9 

108.2 

130.0 

36.7 

12.9 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Asian  Development  Bank,  Economic  Office,  Key  Indi- 
cators of  Developing  Member  Countries  of  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  xviii,  New  York, 
1987,  66-69. 


312 


Appendix  A 


Table  16.  Major  Weapons  of  the  Kampuchean,  or  Khmer, 
People's  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces,  1987 


Equipment 


Quantity 


Model 


Origin 


Ground  Forces 

Main  battle  tanks                                 60       T-54/55  Soviet  Union 

Type-59  China 

Light  amphibious  tanks                          10       PT-76  China 

Armored  personnel  carriers    ....     150-175   BTR-40/BTR-60  Soviet  Union 

BTR-152/M-113  United  States, 
pre-1975 

Artillery    350-380 

76mm  gun  (towed)                                  M-1942  Soviet  Union 

122mm  gun  (towed)                                  M-1938  -do- 

130mm  gun  (towed)                                   Type-59  China 

122mm  howitzer  (towed)  ....                  D-30  Soviet  Union 

105mm  howitzer  (SP  l)                               M-108  United  States, 

pre-1975 

155mm  howitzer  (SP  l)                               M-109  -do- 

107mm  MRL  2                                         Type-63  China 

132mm  MRL  2                                         BM  13-16  Soviet  Union 

140mm  MRL 2                                         BM  14-16  -do- 

14.7mm  AA/AD  3  gun                                ZPU-1/-2/-4  -do- 

37mm  AA/AD  3  gun                                M-1939  -do- 

57mm  AA/AD. 3  gun                                S-60  -do- 
Mortars 

82mm  mortar                                         M-37  -do- 

120mm  mortar                                         M-43  -do- 
Antitank  weapons 

82mm  recoilless  gun                                 B-10  -do- 

107mm  recoilless  gun                                 B-ll  -do- 
Portable  rocket  launcher    ....                  RPG-2  Soviet  Union 

and  China 

RPG-7  -do- 
Small  arms 

7.62mm  assault  rifle                                   AK-47  -do- 

7.62mm  assault  rifle                                   AKM  -do- 

5.56mm  rifle                                             M-16  United  States, 

pre-1975 

7.62mm  light  machine  gun  .  .  .  RPD  Soviet  Union 
Naval  Forces 

Patrol  craft    82  4      SWIFT/PBR  classes      United  States, 

pre-1975 

Landing  craft                                        6  4       LCU  -do- 
Air  Forces 

Tactical  fighters                                  12  4      MiG-21/FISHBED  Soviet  Union 

Transport  helicopter                            6  4       Mi-8  HIP  -do- 

1  SP  =  Self  propelled. 

2  MRL  =  Multiple  rocket  launcher. 

3  AA/AD  =  Anti-aircraft  air-defense. 

4  Estimated. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Pacific  Defense  Reporter  1988  Annual  Reference  Edition, 
Kunyung,  Australia,  14,  6-7,  December  1987-January  1988,  156,  and  The  Mili- 
tary Balance,  1987-1988,  xii,  London,  1987,  161-62. 


313 


Appendix  B 


Major  Political  and  Military  Organizations 

ANS — Armee  Nationale  Sihanoukiste,  or  Sihanouk  National  Army: 
Umbrella  organization  of  the  military  forces  (including 
MOULINAKA  (q.v.)  loyal  to  Sihanouk,  founded  in  1981  as 
armed  wing  of  FUNCINPEC  (q.v.). 

CGDK — Coalition  Government  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  (See 
also  KPRP).  Recognized  by  the  United  Nations  as  the  official 
government  of  Cambodia,  the  ruling  coalition  in  Democratic 
Kampuchea,  a  loose  political  and  military  coalition  of  the  three 
resistance  groups — Democratic  Kampuchea,  the  KPNLF  (q.v.), 
and  FUNCINPEC  (q.v.). 

CPNLAF — Cambodian  People's  National  Liberation  Armed 
Forces.  New  name  given  to  the  RAK  (q.v.)  in  the  early  1970s. 

FANK  (formerly  FARK) — Forces  Armees  Nationales  Khmeres, 
or  Khmer  National  Armed  Forces.  Military  component  of  Lon 
Nol's  Khmer  Republic  (q.v.). 

FARK — Forces  Armees  Royales  Khmeres,  or  Royal  Khmer  Armed 
Forces.  Armed  forces  in  the  newly  independent  Cambodia  in 
1953,  replaced  by  FANK  (q.v.). 

FUNCINPEC— Front  Uni  National  pour  un  Cambodge  Indepen- 
dant,  Neutre,  Pacifique,  et  Cooperatif,  or  National  United 
Front  for  an  Independent,  Neutral,  Peaceful,  and  Coopera- 
tive Cambodia.  Sihanouk's  main  political  organization,  formed 
in  1981.  An  autonomous  part  of  the  CGDK  (q.v.). 

FUNK — Front  Uni  National  du  Kampuchea,  or  National  United 
Front  of  Kampuchea.  Established  by  Sihanouk  in  Beijing  in 
1970,  shortly  after  the  Lon  Nol  coup  ousted  him  from  power; 
a  political  and  military  coalition  committed  to  destroying  the 
Lon  Nol  regime. 

GRUNK — Gouvernement  Royal  d' Union  Nationale  du  Kam- 
puchea or  Royal  Government  of  National  Union  of  Kam- 
puchea. Government-in-exile  formed  by  Sihanouk  after  his 
ouster  in  1970. 

ICP — Indochinese  Communist  Party;  founded  by  Ho  Chi  Minh 
in  1930  and  dismantled  in  1951  into  its  component  parties,  i.e., 
the  Vietnam  Workers'  Party,  the  KPRP  (q.v.),  and  the  Lao 
Itsala. 

KCP — Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  Communist  Party.  Formerly 
called  the  WPK  (q.  v.);  renamed  in  1966.  The  CPK  dominated 


315 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


the  Khmer  Republic  (q.v.)  resisting  forces  from  1970  to  1975 
and  ruled  Cambodia  from  1975  to  1978.  Succeeded  by  the 
KPRP  (q.v.). 

Khmer  Bleu  (Blue  Khmer) — Sihanouk's  domestic  opponents  on 
the  right,  whom  he  so  named  to  distinguish  them  from  his 
domestic  opponents  on  the  left,  the  Khmer  Rouge  (q.v.). 

Khmer  Issarak  (Free  Khmer) — Anti-French,  nationalist  movement 
organized  with  Thai  backing  in  1945  from  elements  spanning 
the  political  spectrum;  within  a  year  split  into  factions,  and  by 
independence  all  but  one  of  them  were  incorporated  into 
Sihanouk's  political  structure.  Located  in  western  Cambodia, 
they  were  on  the  wane  after  1954.  The  only  dissident  group, 
under  Son  Ngoc  Thanh,  they  became  known  as  the  Khn*er 
Serei  (q.v.),  a  heterogeneous  left-wing  guerrilla  movement  oper- 
ating in  border  areas,  in  the  1970s. 

Khmer  Krom — Members  of  a  Cambodian  minority  who  lived  in 
Cochinchina;  early  nationalists.  Several  major  nationalist  lead- 
ers came  from  this  group. 

Khmer  Loeu  (Highland  Khmer) — Hill  tribes  comprising  several 
ethnolinguistically  diverse  groups  living  in  Cambodia,  mainly 
along  the  northeastern  and  the  eastern  frontiers;  upland-  and 
forest-dwelling  ethnic  minorities,  especially  from  Rotanokiri 
Province,  an  early  RAK  (q.v.)  stronghold. 

Khmer  Republic — Established  in  1970  by  Lon  Nol. 

Khmer  Rouge  (Red  Khmer) — The  name  given  to  the  Cambodian 
communists  by  Sihanouk  in  the  1960s.  Later  (although  a  mis- 
nomer) it  was  applied  to  the  insurgents  of  varying  ideological 
backgrounds  who  opposed  the  Khmer  Republic  (q.  v. )  regime 
of  Lon  Nol.  Between  1975  and  1978  it  denoted  the  Democratic 
Kampuchea  regime  led  by  the  radical  Pol  Pot  faction  of  the 
Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  Communist  Party.  After  being  driven 
from  Phnom  Penh  by  Vietnam's  invasion  of  Cambodia  in 
December  1978,  the  Khmer  Rouge  went  back  to  guerrilla 
warfare,  and  it  joined  forces  with  two  noncommunist  insur- 
gent movements  to  form  the  CGDK  (q.v.).  Also  known  as  the 
NADK  (q.v.). 

Khmer  Rumdo  (Liberation  Khmer) — Sihanoukists;  pro- Sihanouk 
Cambodians  recruited  from  the  country's  eastern  provinces, 
trained  and  armed  by  Hanoi. 

Khmer  Serei — (Free  Khmer).  An  anti-Sihanouk  group  under  Son 
Ngoc  Thanh's  leadership  emanating  from  the  anti-French 
resistance  movement  called  the  Khmer  Issarak  (q.v.),  located 
in  southeastern  Cambodia;  in  armed  opposition  to  the  Siha- 
nouk regime  from  1959  on,  but  dissolved  itself  shortly  after 


316 


Appendix  B 


the  deposition  of  Sihanouk  in  March  1970.  Right  wing,  anti- 
monarchical  nationalists. 

Khmer  Viet  Minh — Cambodian  communists;  the  3,000  to  5,000 
Cambodian  communist  cadres  who  had  repatriated  to  North 
Vietnam  after  the  Geneva  Conference;  derogatory  term  used 
by  Sihanouk  to  refer  to  Cambodian  leftists  organizing  pro- 
independence  agitation  in  alliance  with  the  Vietnamese. 

KNUFNS— Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  National  United  Front  for 
National  Salvation;  also  known  as  the  Kampuchean  United 
Front  for  National  Salvation  and  the  Salvation  Front.  It  was 
founded  in  1978  by  anti-Khmer  Rouge  (q.  v.)  Cambodians  in 
Vietnam  as  an  alternative  to  the  Pol  Pot  regime,  as  a  Cambo- 
dian structure  to  help  legitimize  the  Vietnamese  invasion  and 
the  ouster  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  As  the  first  incarnation 
of  what  has  remained  the  main  political  organization  in  the 
PRK  (q.v.)  besides  the  KPRP  (q.v.),  the  front  had  numerous 
noncommunists,  including  Buddhist  clergy,  in  its  leadership, 
although  it  was  largely  controlled  by  communists.  Name 
changed  in  1981  to  KUFNCD  (q.v.). 

KPNLAF — Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Armed  Forces, 
also  known  as  the  Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Army 
(not  to  be  confused  with  the  Khmer  People's  Liberation  Army, 
the  opposition  forces  organized  by  the  Vietnamese  Viet  Minh 
at  the  end  of  World  War  II).  Military  component  of  KPNLF 
(q.v.),  formed  in  March  1979  under  Son  Sann. 

KPNLF — Khmer  People's  National  Liberation  Front.  An  autono- 
mous part  of  the  CGDK  (q.v.),  the  KPNLF  is  a  political  and 
military  organization,  founded  and  led  by  former  prime 
minister  Son  Sann,  for  the  purpose  of  resisting  the  Vietnamese. 

KPRAF — Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Armed 
Forces.  Military  component  of  PRK  (q.v.). 

KPRP — Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  People's  Revolutionary  Party. 
The  original  party  was  founded  in  September  1951,  when  the 
ICP  (q.v.)  dissolved  into  three  national  parties  (the  leadership 
and  policies  of  which  were  aligned  with  the  Vietnamese  com- 
munist movement) .  The  name  of  the  party  was  changed  to  the 
WPK  (q.  v. )  in  1960  and  then  to  the  KCP  (q.  v. )  in  1966.  Today 
this  designation  applies  to  the  communist  party  that  functions 
in  the  PRK  (q.v.).  In  one  sense  it  is  a  new  organization;  in 
another  sense  it  is  the  continuation  of  the  communist  parties 
that  preceded  it.  The  date  of  its  founding  is  uncertain,  although 
the  First  Party  Congress  held  publicly  was  convened  in  May 
1981;  the  party  may  have  come  into  existence  after  mid- 
1978. 


317 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


KUFNCD — Kampuchean  (or  Khmer)  United  Front  for  National 
Construction  and  Defense.  Umbrella  organization  of  the  KPRP 
(q.v.).  (Formerly  KNUFNS  (q.v.). 

MOULINAKA — Mouvement  pour  la  Liberation  Nationale  du 
Kampuchea,  or  Movement  for  the  National  Liberation  of  Kam- 
puchea; a  pro-Sihanouk  group  formed  in  August  1979  by  Kong 
Sileah  after  he  broke  ranks  with  General  Dien  Del;  mili- 
tary organization  based  among  the  civilian  camps  on  the 
Cambodian-Thai  border. 

NADK — National  Army  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  The  succes- 
sor to  the  RAK  (q.v. — name  change  effective  December  1979), 
as  the  armed  forces  of  the  Khmer  Rouge  (q.v.). 

NFLSVN— National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  South  Vietnam. 
Called  the  Viet  Cong  by  opponents,  it  led  the  struggle  against 
the  United  States. 

PAVN — People's  Army  of  Vietnam.  The  military  forces  of  North 
Vietnam  (until  1976)  and,  after  unification,  of  the  Socialist 
Republic  of  Vietnam.  During  the  Second  Indochina  War 
(1954-75),  PAVN  bore  the  brunt  of  the  fighting  against  United 
States  military  forces  in  Vietnam. 

PDFGNUK— Patriotic  and  Democratic  Front  of  the  Great  National 
Union  of  Kampuchea.  A  mass  organization  established  by  the 
exiled  KCP  (q.v.)  in  September  1979  and  headed  by  Khieu 
Samphan  with  the  aim  of  ousting  the  Vietnamese  from 
Cambodia. 

PDK — Party  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  New  name  given  to  the 
communist  party  in  Cambodia  in  December  1981,  when  the 
party  allegedly  dissolved  itself,  probably  to  distance  itself  from 
the  brutality  of  Pol  Pot's  regime. 

PRK — People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea.  The  Vietnamese- 
sponsored  Phnom  Penh  regime  established  in  1979. 

PRYUK — People's  Revolutionary  Youth  Union  of  Kampuchea. 
Mass  organization  for  young  people  that  was  less  elitist  than 
the  communist  party. 

RAK — Revolutionary  Army  of  Kampuchea.  Founded  by  Pol  Pot 
in  1968,  this  force  was  renamed  the  Cambodian  People's  Na- 
tional Liberation  Armed  Forces  (CPNLAF  (q.  v.))  in  the  early 
1970s.  Also  known  as  the  People's  National  Liberation  Armed 
Forces  of  Kampuchea  (PNLAFK).  In  1979  it  became  the 
NADK  (q.v.). 

Viet  Cong — Contraction  of  the  term  Viet  Nam  Cong  San  (Viet- 
namese Communists),  the  name  applied  by  the  governments 
of  the  United  States  and  of  South  Vietnam  to  the  communist 
insurgents  in  rebellion  against  the  latter  government,  beginning 


318 


Appendix  B 


around  1957.  As  used  in  the  Khmer  Republic  (q.v.)  the  term 
applied  to  South  Vietnamese  communist  troops  operating  in 
South  Vietnam  and  in  Cambodian  territory  as  well. 
Viet  Minh — Contraction  of  the  term  Viet  Nam  Doc  Lap  Dong 
Minh  Hoi  (League  for  the  Independence  of  Vietnam),  a  coa- 
lition of  nationalist  elements  dominated  by  the  communists  and 
led  by  veteran  Vietnamese  revolutionary  Ho  Chi  Minh.  Origi- 
nally a  broadly  based  Vietnamese  nationalist  organization  in 
armed  opposition  to  both  the  French  and  the  Japanese;  by  1951 
taken  over  by  communists.  As  used  in  the  Khmer  Republic 
(q.v.),  the  term  applies  to  Vietnamese  communists,  North  Viet- 
namese in  particular. 


319 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abrams,  Floyd,  and  Diane  Orentlicher.  Kampuchea,  After  the  Worst: 
A  Report  on  Current  Violations  of  Human  Rights.  New  York:  Law- 
yers Committee  for  Human  Rights,  1985. 

Antoshin,  Y.  "Democratic  Kampuchea:  Two  Years  Later,"  Inter- 
national Affairs  [Moscow],  May  1977,  64-69. 

Barnett,  Anthony.  "Democratic  Kampuchea:  A  Highly  Central- 
ized Dictatorship."  Pages  212-29  in  David  P.  Chandler  and  Ben 
Kiernan  (eds.),  Revolution  and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight 
Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Southeast  Asia  Studies, 
1983. 

Becker,  Elizabeth.  When  the  War  Was  Over,  The  Voices  of  Cambodia's 
Revolution  and  Its  People.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1986. 

Cady,  John  F.  Southeast  Asia:  Its  Historical  Development.  New  York: 
McGraw  Hill,  1964. 

Caldwell,  Malcolm,  and  Lek  Tan.  Cambodia  in  the  Southeast  Asian 
War.  New  York:  Monthly  Review  Press,  1973. 

Carney,  Timothy  Michael.  Communist  Party  Power  in  Kampuchea 
(Cambodia):  Documents  and  Discussion.  (Data  Paper,  106.)  Ithaca, 
New  York:  Department  of  Asian  Studies,  Cornell  University, 
1977. 

Chanda,  Nayan.  Brother  Enemy:  The  War  after  the  War.  New  York: 

Harcourt  Brace  Jovanovich,  1986. 
 .  "The  Pieces  Begin  To  Fit,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  98,  October  21,  1977,  20-24. 
Chandler,  David  P.  "The  Constitution  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 

(Cambodia):  The  Semantics  of  Revolutionary  Change,"  Pacific 

Affairs  [Vancouver],  49,  No.  3,  Fall  1976,  506-15. 
 A  History  of  Cambodia.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 

1983. 

 "Revising  the  Past  in  Democratic  Kampuchea:  When  Was 

the  Birthday  of  the  Party?"  Pacific  Affairs  [Vancouver],  56,  No.  2, 

Summer  1983,  288-300. 
 "A  Revolution  in  Full  Spate:  Communist  Party  Policy 

in  Democratic  Kampuchea,  December  1976,"  International  Journal 

of  Politics,  16,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  131-49. 
 .  "Seeing  Red:  Perceptions  of  Cambodian  History  in 

Democratic  Kampuchea."  Pages  34-56  in  David  P.  Chandler 


321 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.),  Revolution  and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea: 
Eight  Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Southeast  Asia  Studies, 
1983. 

Chandler,  David  P. ,  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.).  Revolution  and  Its  After- 
math in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale  University 
Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 

Coedes,  George.  Angkor:  An  Introduction.  Hong  Kong:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1969. 

 .  The  Making  of  South  East  Asia.  (Trans.,  H.  M.  Wright.) 

Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1966. 

Delvert,  Jean.  Le  Cambodge.  Paris:  Presses  Universitaires  de  France, 
1983. 

Elliott,  David  W.  P.  (ed.).  The  Third  Indochina  Conflict.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1981. 

Etcheson,  Craig.  The  Rise  and  Demise  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Hall,  D.  G.  E.  A  History  of  South- East  Asia.  London:  Macmillan, 
1964. 

Hawk,  David.  "International  Human  Rights  Law  and  Democratic 
Kampuchea,"  International  Journal  of  Politics,  16,  No.  3,  Fall  1986, 
3-38. 

Heder,  Stephen  R.  "Kampuchea  1980:  Anatomy  of  a  Crisis," 
Southeast  Asia  Chronicle,  No.  77,  February  1981,  3-11. 

 .  "Democratic  Kampuchea:  The  Regime's  Post-Mortem," 

Indochina  Issues,  No.  13,  January  1981. 

Herz,  Martin  F.  A  Short  History  of  Cambodia  from  the  Days  of  Angkor 
to  the  Present.  New  York:  Praeger,  1958. 

Hildebrand,  George,  and  Gareth  Porter.  Cambodia:  Starvation  and 
Revolution.  New  York:  Monthly  Review  Press,  1976. 

"I  Spent  a  Year  Growing  Cabbages  at  the  Khmer  Rouge  Foreign 
Affairs  Ministry,"  Le  Monde  [Paris],  October  27,  1980.  Joint  Pub- 
lications Research  Service,  Southeast  Asia  Report,  JPRS-76701, 
September  20,  1980,  26-30. 

International  Documentation  and  Information  Centre  (INTER- 
DOC).  "Cambodia:  Problems  of  Neutrality  and  Independence." 
The  Hague:  May  1970. 

Ith  Sarin.  Sranaoh  Pralungkhmer  (Regrets  for  the  Khmer  Soul). 
(Trans.,  Chanthou  Boua.)  unpublished. 

Khieu,  Samphan.  Cambodia's  Economy  and  Industrial  Development. 
(Trans.,  Laura  Summers.)  Ithaca,  New  York:  Department  of 
Asian  Studies,  Cornell  University,  1979. 

Kiernan,  Ben.  How  Pol  Pot  Came  to  Power.  London:  Verso,  1984. 

 "Introduction."  Pages  1-28  in  Ben  Kiernan  and  Chan- 
thou Boua  (eds.),  Peasants  and  Politics  in  Kampuchea,  1942-81.  Lon- 
don: Zed  Press,  1982. 


322 


Bibliography 


 "The  1970  Peasant  Uprisings  Against  Lon  Nol."  Pages 

206-23  in  Ben  Kiernan  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.),  Peasants  and 
Politics  in  Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 

 "Pol  Pot  and  the  Kampuchean  Communist  Movement." 

Pages  227-317  in  Ben  Kiernan  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.), 
Peasants  and  Politics  in  Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press, 
1982. 

 "The  Samlaut  Rebellion,  1967-68."  Pages  166-205  in 

Ben  Kiernan  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.),  Peasants  and  Politics  in 
Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 

 "Wild  Chickens,  Farm  Chickens  and  Cormorants:  Kam- 
puchea's Eastern  Zone  Under  Pol  Pot."  Pages  136-211  in 
David  P.  Chandler  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.),  Revolution  and  Its 
Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 

Kiernan,  Ben,  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.).  Peasants  and  Politics  in 
Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 

Kiernan,  Ben,  and  Stephen  R.  Heder.  "Why  Pol  Pot?  Roots  of 
the  Cambodian  Tragedy,"  Indochina  Issues,  No.  52,  December 
1984. 

Kiljunen,  Kimmo,  ed.  Kampuchea:  Decade  of  the  Genocide — Report  of 
a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission.  London:  Zed  Books,  1984. 

Kissinger,  Henry.  White  House  Years.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1979. 

 Years  of  Upheaval.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1982. 

Lacouture,  Jean.  Ho  Chi  Minh:  A  Political  Biography.  New  York: 
Random  House,  1968. 

Le  Bar,  Frank  M.  (ed.  and  comp.).  Ethnic  Groups  of  Insular  Southeast 
Asia.  New  Haven:  Human  Relations  Area  Files  Press,  1964. 

Leifer,  Michael.  "Kampuchea  1979:  From  Dry  Season  to  Dry  Sea- 
son," Asian  Survey,  20,  No.  1,  January  1980,  33-41. 

Leighton,  Marian  Kirsch.  "Perspectives  on  the  Vietnam-Cambodia 
Border  Conflict,"  Asian  Survey,  18,  No.  5,  May  1978,  448-57. 

Men  Xom  On.  "Major  Landmarks  of  the  Kampuchean  Revolu- 
tion," Vietnam  Courier  [Hanoi],  20,  No.  11,  November  1984, 
10-12. 

Myrdal,  Jan.  1  'When  the  Peasant  War  Triumphed, ' '  Southeast  Asia 

Chronicle,  No.  77,  February  1981,  12-15. 
 "Why  is  There  Famine  in  Kampuchea?"  Southeast  Asia 

Chronicle,  No.  77,  February  1981,  16-18. 
Osborne,  Milton  E.  Before  Kampuchea:  Preludes  to  Tragedy.  London: 

George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 
 "Norodom  Sihanouk:  A  Leader  of  the  Left?"  New  Haven: 

Department  of  History,  Yale  University,  1974. 


323 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Ponchaud,  Francois.  Cambodia:  Year  Zero.  (Trans.,  Nancy  Amphoux.) 

New  York:  Holt,  Rinehart  and  Winston,  1978. 
 "Le  Kampuchea  democratique:  Une  revolution  radicale," 

Mondes  Asiatiques  [Paris],  No.  6,  Summer  1976,  153-80. 
Quinn,  Kenneth  M.  "Cambodia  1976:  Internal  Consolidation  and 

External  Expansion,"  Asian  Survey,  17,  No.  1,  January  1977, 

43-54. 

Schanberg,  Sydney  H.  The  Death  and  Life  ofDith  Pran.  New  York: 
Penguin,  1980. 

Shawcross,  William.  "Cambodia:  Some  Perceptions  of  a  Disaster." 
Pages  230-58  in  David  P.  Chandler,  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.), 
Revolution  and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven: 
Yale  University  Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 

 .  The  Quality  of  Mercy:  Cambodia,  Holocaust,  and  Modern  Con- 
science. New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 

 .  Sideshow:  Kissinger,  Nixon,  and  the  Destruction  of  Cambodia. 

New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1979. 

Sihanouk,  Prince  Norodom.  (Trans.,  Mary  Feeney.)  War  and  Hope: 
The  Case  for  Cambodia.  New  York:  Pantheon  Books,  1980. 

Sisowath,  Prince  Thomico.  "Norodom  Sihanouk  and  the  Khmer 
Factions,"  Indochina  Report  [Singapore],  No.  9,  October-December 
1986. 

Szymusiak,  Molyda.  The  Stones  Cry  Out:  A  Cambodian  Childhood, 
1975-80.  New  York:  Hill  and  Wang,  1986. 

"Testimonies:  Life  Under  the  Khmer  Rouge."  Pages  318-62  in 
Ben  Kiernan  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.),  Peasants  and  Politics  in 
Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 

Thion,  Serge.  "The  Cambodian  Idea  of  Revolution."  Pages  10-33 
in  David  P.  Chandler  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.),  Revolution  and  Its 
Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 

 "Chronology  of  Khmer  Communism,  1940-82."  Pages 

291-319  in  David  P.  Chandler  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.),  Revolu- 
tion and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale 
University  Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 

 .  "The  Pattern  of  Cambodian  Politics,"  International  Jour- 
nal of  Politics,  16,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  110-30. 

Vickery,  Michael.  Cambodia,  1975-82.  Boston:  South  End  Press, 
1984. 

 "Democratic  Kampuchea:  Themes  and  Variations." 

Pages  99-135  in  David  P.  Chandler  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.), 
Revolution  and  Its  Aftermath  in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven: 
Yale  University  Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 


324 


Bibliography 


 Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist  Regimes 

series.)  London:  Frances  Pinter,  1986. 
 "Looking  Back  at  Cambodia,  1942-76."  Pages  89-113 

in  Ben  Kiernan  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.),  Peasants  and  Politics 

in  Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 
"Two  Views  on  the  Vietnam-Kampuchea  War."  Southeast  Asia 

Chronicle,  No.  64,  September-October  1978,  1-40. 
White,  Peter  T.  "Ancient  Glory  in  Stone,"  National  Geographic, 

161,  No.  5,  May  1982,  552-89. 
 .  "Kampuchea  Wakens  From  a  Nightmare,"  National 

Geographic,  161,  No.  5,  May  1982,  590-623. 
Willmott,  W.  E.  "The  Chinese  in  Kampuchea,"  Journal  of  Southeast 

Asian  Studies  [Singapore],  12,  No.  1,  March  1981,  38-45. 


Chapter  2 

Ang,  Choulean.  "Grossesse  et  accouchement  au  Cambodia:  aspects 
rituels,"  ASEMI  [Paris],  13,  Nos.  1-4,  1982. 

 "Les  apparitions  de  fantomes  au  Cambodge,"  ASEMI 

[Paris],  11,  1980,  437-43. 

Apsara.  "Les  enfants  du  Kampuchea  Democratique,"  ASEMI 
[Paris],  13,  No.  1-4,  1982,  183-92. 

Bartu,  Friedemann.  "Cambodian  Refugees:  Tomorrow's  'Pales- 
tinians'?" Swiss  Review  of  World  Affairs  [Zurich],  38,  No.  1,  April 
1987,  8-9. 

Berberg,  Toine.  "Life  in  Kampuchea's  Refugee  Camps  .  .  .  Will 
They  Ever  Go  Back  Home?,"  Daily  News  [Colombo],  July  16, 
1987,  6. 

 "Life  in  Kampuchea's  Refugee  Camps  .  .  .  Dim  Hopes 

of  a  Viet  Pullout,"  Daily  News  [Colombo],  July  17,  1987,  4. 

 "Life  in  Kampuchea's  Refugee  Camps  .  .  .  Pol  Pot's 

Shadow  Still  Haunts  Kampuchea,"  Daily  News  [Colombo], 
July  18,  1987,  8. 

Bhikkhu  Oung  Mean  Candavanna.  "A  Seminar  on  Khmer  Bud- 
dhism," Vatt  Khmer,  No.  5,  March  1985,  5-8. 

 "A  Seminar  on  Khmer  Buddhism,"  Vatt  Khmer,  No.  6, 

January  1986,  4-7. 

"A  Border-Line  Existence,"  Refugees  [Geneva],  No.  45,  Septem- 
ber 1987,  33. 

Bruk,  S.I.  Naselenie  Mira  [World  Population].  Moscow:  Nauka, 
1981. 

Cambodia.  Ministry  of  Information.  Le  Bouddhisme  au  Cambodge. 
Phnom  Penh:  Royal  Cambodian  Government,  1962. 


325 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


 Cambodia.  Ministry  of  Information.  Phnom  Penh:  Royal 

Cambodian  Government,  1962. 

Chanthou,  Boua.  "La  femme  dans  la  Republique  Populaire  du 
Kampuchea,"  ASEMI,  13,  Nos.  1-4,  1982,  287-314. 

Crisp,  Jeff.  "Refugees  in  Thailand:  The  Long  Wait  For  A  Solu- 
tion," Refugees  [Geneva],  No.  45,  September  1987,  18-22. 

 "Shattered  Past;  Uncertain  Future,"  Refugees  [Geneva], 

No.  45,  September  1987,  30-32. 

Delvert,  Jean.  Le  Cambodge.  Paris:  Presses  Universitaires  de  France, 
1983. 

Dutt,  Ashok  K.  (ed.).  Southeast  Asia:  Realm  of  Contrasts.  Dubuque: 

Kendall  Hunt  Publishing  Company,  1974. 
Dy  Phan,  Pauline.  "Facteurs  Ecologiques  et  Vegetation  du  Cam- 
bodge," Seksa  Khmer  [Paris],  3-4,  1980,  5. 
Ea,  Meng-Try.  "Kampuchea:  A  Country  Adrift,"  Population  and 

Development  Review,  7,  No.  2,  June  1981,  209-28. 
Ebihara,  May  Mayko.  Svay:  A  Khmer  Village  in  Cambodia.  Ann 

Arbor:  University  Microfilms,  1971. 
Goulin,  Christian.  "Phnom-Penh  notes  de  geographie  urbaine," 

Les  Cahiers  d'Outre-Mer  [Bordeaux] ,  January-March  1967,  5-36. 
Khin,  Sok.  "Essai  d' Interpretation  de  formules  magiques  des  Cam- 

bodgiens,"  ASEMI  [Paris],  13,  Nos.  1-4,  1982,  111-19. 
Kiernan,  Ben.  "Kampuchea's  Ethnic  Chinese  under  Pol  Pot:  A 

Case  of  Systematic  Social  Discrimination,"  Journal  of  Contemporary 

Asia  [Stockholm],  16,  No.  1,  1986,  18-29. 
.  Social  Cohesion  in  Revolutionary  Cambodia.  Sydney:  Australian 

Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1976. 
Kiernan,  Ben,  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.).  Peasants  and  Politics  in 

Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 
Kiljunen,  Kimmo  (ed.).  Kampuchea:  Decade  of  the  Genocide — Report 

of  a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission.  London:  Zed  Books,  1984. 
Le  Bar,  Frank  M.,  Gerald  C.  Hickey,  and  John  K.  Musgrave 

(eds.).  Ethnic  Groups  of  Mainland  Southeast  Asia.  New  Haven: 

Human  Relations  Area  Files  Press,  1964. 
Martel,  Gabrielle.  Lovea,  village  des  environs  d Angkor  (Bulletin  de 

l'Ecole  Francaise  d' Extreme  Orient).  Paris:  1975. 
Martin,  Marie  Alexandrine.  "Vietnamized  Cambodia:  A  Silent 

Ethnocide,"  Indochina  Report  [Singapore],  No.  7,  July-September 

1986,  2-30. 

Migozzi,  Jacques.  Cambodge:  f aits  et  problemes  de  population  (Cambo- 
dia: Population  Facts  and  Problems).  Paris:  Editions  du  Centre 
National  de  la  Recherche  Scientifique,  1973. 

Montagu,  John.  "Kampuchea. ' '  Pages  202-204  in  Asia  and  Pacific 
Review  1985.  Middle  East  Review  Company,  1984. 


326 


Bibliography 


Nepote,  Jacques.  "Cartographie  de  l'ethnie  Khmere  en  1970," 
Seksa  Khmer  [Paris],  1-2,  1980,  11-18. 

Panaritis,  Andrea.  '  'Cambodia:  The  Rough  Road  To  Recovery/' 
Indochina  Issues,  No.  56,  April  1985. 

Philippides,  Daniel.  ' 'Medical  and  Sanitary  Situation  in  Cambo- 
dia (1979-1984),"  ASEMI [Paris],  15,  Nos.  1-4,  1984,  235-76. 

Po,  Dharma.  "Notes  sur  les  cam  du  Cambodge,"  Seksa  Khmer 
[Paris],  3-4,  1981,  161-83. 

Pourtier,  Roland.  "Les  Chinois  du  Cambodge  littoral,"  Les  Cahiers 
d'Outre-Mer  [Bordeaux],  24,  No.  1,  January  1971,  45-72. 

Steinberg,  David  J.  Cambodia:  Its  People,  Its  Society,  Its  Culture.  (Sur- 
vey of  World  Cultures.)  New  Haven:  Human  Relations  Area 
Files  Press,  1959. 

Thierry,  Solange.  Le  Cambodge  des  Contes.  Paris:  Editions  L'Har- 
mattan,  1985. 

Thomas,  David,  and  Robert  Headley.  "More  on  Mon-Khmer  Sub- 
groupings,"  Lingua  [Amsterdam],  25,  No.  4,  1970,  398-418. 

United  Kingdom.  Foreign  and  Commonwealth  Office.  "Human 
Rights  Violations  in  Democratic  Kampuchea:  A  Report  Prepared 
by  the  United  Kingdom  Government,  14  July  1978."  (Foreign 
Policy  Documents,  No.  25.)  London:  1978. 

United  States.  Bureau  of  Census.  Unpublished,  computerized  data 
on  world  population,  Washington,  1987. 

Vickery,  Michael.  Cambodia  1975-82.  Boston:  South  End  Press, 
1984. 

 "Cambodia's  Tenuous  Progress,"  Indochina  Issues,  No.  63, 

January  1986. 

 Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist  Regimes 

series.)  London:  Frances  Pinter,  1986. 
Willmott,  W.E.  "The  Chinese  in  Kampuchea,"  Journal  of  Southeast 

Asian  Studies  [Singapore],  12,  No.  1,  March  1981,  38-45. 


Chapter  3 

Asian  Development  Bank.  Economic  Office.  Key  Indicators  of  Devel- 
oping Member  Countries  of  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  XVII  New 
York:  New  York  University  Press,  1986. 

 Key  Indicators  of  Developing  Member  Countries  of  the  Asian 

Development  Bank,  XVIII.  New  York:  New  York  University  Press, 
1987. 

Asian  Economic  Handbook.  London:  Euromonitor  Publications,  1987. 
Chanda,  Nayan.  "A  Qualified  Recovery,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  132,  No.  20,  May  15,  1986,  25-28. 


327 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


 Brother  Enemy :  The  War  after  the  War.  New  York:  Harcourt 

Brace  Jovanovich,  1986. 

Ea,  Meng-Try.  ''Kampuchea:  A  Country  Adrift,"  Population  and 
Development  Review,  7,  No.  2,  June  1981,  209-25. 

Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific.  Statistical 
Yearbook  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  1986-87,  Bangkok:  1987. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  1987-88,  Indochina:  Viet- 
nam, Laos,  Cambodia.  London:  Economist  Publications  Limited, 
December  1987. 

The  Far  East  and  Australasia.  London:  Europa  Publications,  1986. 

FAO  Production  Yearbook.  Rome:  Food  and  Agriculture  Organiza- 
tion of  the  United  Nations,  1986. 

FAO  Production  Yearbook.  Rome:  Food  and  Agriculture  Organiza- 
tion of  the  United  Nations,  1987. 

Hiebert,  Murray.  "Cambodia  and  Vietnam:  Costs  of  the  Alli- 
ance," Indochina  Issues,  No.  46,  May  1984. 

 "Market  Forces  Flourish,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  136,  No.  19,  May  7,  1987,  38. 

 .  "The  Shadow  of  War, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  136,  No.  19,  May  7,  1987,  36-37. 

Jenkins,  David.  "Destructive  Elements  Decimate  the  Harvest," 
Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  126,  No.  48,  Novem- 
ber 29,  1984,  26-27. 

"Kampuchea."  Pages  1617-25  in  The  Far  East  and  Australasia,  1987. 
London:  Europa  Publications,  1987. 

Khieu  Samphan.  "Cambodia's  Economy  and  Industrial  Develop- 
ment." (Trans.,  Laura  Summers.)  Ithaca,  New  York:  Depart- 
ment of  Asian  Studies,  Cornell  University,  1979. 

Kiernan,  Ben.  "Kampuchea,  1979-81:  National  Rehabilitation  in 
the  Eye  of  an  International  Storm."  Pages  167-95  in  Huynh 
Kim  Khanh  (ed.),  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1982.  Singapore: 
Heinemann  Educational  Books  (Asia),  1982. 

Kirk,  Donald.  Wider  War.  New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 

Le  Thi  Tuyet.  Regional  Cooperation  in  Southeast  Asia:  The  Mekong 
Project,  1973.  (Unpublished  Ph.  D.  dissertation.)  New  York:  City 
University  of  New  York. 

Martin,  Marie  Alexandrine.  "La  riziculture  et  la  maitrise  de  l'eau 
dans  le  Kampuchea  Democratique,"  Etudes  Rurales  [Paris], 
No.  83,  July-September  1981,  7-44. 

Mosyakov,  D.  "Solving  the  Food  Problem  in  Kampuchea,"  Far 
Eastern  Affairs  [Moscow],  No.  4,  1986,  43-51. 

Ponchaud,  Francois.  "Sous  la  conduite  de  l'Angkar:  Apercus  sur 
la  revolution  cambodgienne,"  Etudes  [Paris],  February  1977, 
167-80,  346. 


328 


Bibliography 

Quinn-Judge,  Paul.  "A  Crisis  Unrelieved,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  123,  No.  5,  February  2,  1984,  47-48. 

 .  '  'The  Meagre  Harvest, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  127,  No.  3,  January  24,  1985,  66. 

Richardson,  Michael.  "Unity  in  Adversity,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  124,  No.  14,  April  5,  1984,  56-58. 

Schier,  Peter.  "Kampuchea  in  1985 — Between  Crocodiles  and 
Tigers."  Pages  139-61  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1986.  Singa- 
pore: Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1987. 

Shawcross,  William.  The  Quality  of  Mercy:  Cambodia,  Holocaust,  and 
Modern  Conscience.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 

Sihanouk,  Prince  Norodom,  (as  related  to  Wilfred  Burchett).  My 
War  with  the  CIA:  The  Memoirs  of  Prince  Norodom  Sihanouk.  New 
York:  Pantheon  Books,  1973. 

Ukraintsev,  M.  "The  Soviet  Union's  Growing  Cooperation  with 
Asian  Socialist  Nations  and  Kampuchea,"  Far  Eastern  Affairs, 
[Moscow],  47,  No.  1,  1986,  51-63. 

United  States  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Fact  Book, 
1987.  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  Kampuchea  (Cambodia).  Washington:  GPO,  May  1984. 

Vickery,  Michael.  "Cambodia's  Tenuous  Progress,"  Indochina 
Issues,  No.  63,  January  1986. 

 Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  Boulder,  Colo- 
rado: Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Cham  Ethnic  Minority  Incorporated  News- 
letter; Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Indochina:  Viet- 
nam, Laos,  Cambodia  [London];  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review,  Asia 
Yearbook;  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong] ;  Foreign  Broad- 
cast Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Asia  and  Pacific;  and  Daily 
Report:  East  Asia;  Keesing's  Record  of  World  Events  [Harlow,  Essex, 
United  Kingdom] ;  Joint  Publications  Research  Service,  South  Asia 
Report;  Vneshniaia  Torgovlia  (Foreign  Trade)  [Moscow].) 


Chapter  4 

Ablin,  David  A.,  and  Marlowe  Hood  (eds.).  "Cambodia:  Politics 
and  International  Relations,"  International  Journal  of  Politics,  16, 
No.  3,  Fall  1986,  3-185. 

Barron,  John  and  Anthony  Paul.  Murder  of  a  Gentle  Land:  The  Un- 
told Story  of  Communist  Genocide  in  Cambodia.  New  York:  Thomas  Y. 
Crowell,  1977. 


329 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Becker,  Elizabeth.  " Stalemate  in  Cambodia,"  Current  History,  86, 
No.  519,  April  1987,  156-59. 

Bekaert,  Jacques.  "Cambodge:  Des  graves  incidents  ont  oppose 
des  Khmers  rouges  et  des  Sihanoukistes,"  Le  Monde  [Paris], 
July  31,  1985,  4. 

' 'Cambodia:  Vietnam's  1990  Question,"  Asiaweek  [Hong  Kong], 
12,  No.  31,  August  3,  1986,  20-21. 

Central  Committee.  National  United  Front  for  the  Salvation  of 
Kampuchea.  *  'Kampuchea's  Eight  Immediate  Policies  for  Lib- 
erated Areas,"  Vietnam  Courier  [Hanoi],  15,  No.  2,  February 
1979,  3-4. 

 "Kampuchea's  Foreign  Policy,"  Vietnam  Courier  [Hanoi], 

15,  No.  2,  February  1979,  4-5. 

Chanda,  Nayan.  "Communist  Compromise?  Moscow,  Hanoi,  and 
Peking  Signal  Movement,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 
Kong],  134,  No.  52,  December  25,  1986,  14-15. 

 "A  Qualified  Recovery,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  132,  No.  20,  May  15,  1986,  25-28. 

 "Stop-go  Train  of  Peace,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  138,  No.  52,  December  24,  1987,  10. 

 "Straw  in  the  Wind:  Soviet  Hint  of  Flexibility  over  Elec- 
tions," Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  131,  No.  3, 
January  16,  1986,  21-22. 

Chandler,  David  P.  "Cambodia  in  1984:  Historical  Patterns  Re- 
asserted." Pages  177-86  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1985.  Singa- 
pore: Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1985. 

 "Kampuchea:  End  Game  or  Stalemate?"  Current  History, 

83,  No.  497,  December  1984,  413-17. 

-  '  'Revising  the  Past  in  Democratic  Kampuchea:  When  was 
the  Birthday  of  the  Party?"  Pacific  Affairs  [Vancouver],  56,  No.  2, 
Summer  1983,  288-300. 

 "The  Tragedy  of  Cambodian  History,"  Pacific  Affairs 

[Vancouver],  52,  No.  3,  Fall  1979,  410-15. 

Chandler,  David  P.,  and  Ben  Kiernan  (eds.).  Revolution  and  Its  After- 
math in  Kampuchea:  Eight  Essays.  New  Haven:  Yale  University 
Southeast  Asia  Studies,  1983. 

Chang,  Pao-min.  "Beijing  Versus  Hanoi:  The  Diplomacy  over 
Kampuchea,"  Asian  Survey,  23,  No.  5,  May  1983,  598-618. 

-  Kampuchea  Between  China  and  Vietnam.  Singapore:  Singa- 
pore University  Press,  1985. 

Chufrin,  Gennady  I.  "Five  Years  of  the  People's  Revolutionary 
Power  in  Kampuchea:  Results  and  Conclusions,"  Asian  Survey, 
24,  No.  11,  November  1984,  1143-50. 


330 


Bibliography 


Conboy,  Kenneth  J.  (ed.).  The  U.S.  and  Vietnam:  Twelve  Years  After 
the  War.  (The  Heritage  Lecture  Series.)  Washington:  The 
Heritage  Foundation,  1987. 

Eiland,  Michael.  ■ 'Kampuchea  in  1985:  From  Stalemate  to  Am- 
biguity," Asian  Survey,  26,  No.  1,  January  1986,  118-25. 

Elliott,  David  W.  P.  (ed.).  The  Third  Indochina  Conflict.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1981. 

Etcheson,  Craig.  The  Rise  and  Demise  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Fenton,  James  (ed.).  Cambodia  Witness:  The  Autobiography  of  Someth 
May.  New  York:  Random  House,  1986. 

Greenhouse,  Steven.  4 'Sihanouk  Cancels  His  Plans  to  Meet  Cam- 
bodian Again,"  New  York  Times,  December  11,  1987,  A7. 

Heder,  Stephen  P.  "The  Kampuchean- Vietnamese  Conflict.' ' 
Pages  157-86  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1979.  Singapore: 
Heinemann  Educational  Books  (Asia),  1979. 

Hiebert,  Murray.  "Peace  or  Propaganda?"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  138,  No.  43,  October  22,  1987,  35. 

 "That  Annual  Exercise,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  138,  No.  50,  December  10,  1987,  23. 

 "The  Shadow  of  War, ' '  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong 

Kong],  136,  No.  19,  May  7,  1987,  36-37. 

Huxley,  Tim.  "ASEAN  and  Cambodia:  The  Hazards  of  Stale- 
mate," Asia  Pacific  Community  [Tokyo],  30,  Fall  1985,  30-47. 

"Is  Pol  Pot  Dying?"  Asiaweek  [Hong  Kong],  12,  No.  50,  Decem- 
ber 14,  1986,  39-41. 

Kershaw,  Roger.  "Multipolarity  and  Cambodia's  Crisis  of  Sur- 
vival: A  Preliminary  Perspective  on  1979."  Pages  161-88  in 
Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1979.  Singapore:  Heinemann  Educational 
Books  (Asia),  1979. 

Khien,  Theeravit.  "Thai-Kampuchean  Relations:  Problems  and 
Prospects,"  Asian  Survey,  22,  6,  June  1982,  561-76. 

Kiernan,  Ben.  How  Pol  Pot  Came  to  Power.  London:  Verso,  1984. 

 "Kampuchea  1979-81:  National  Rehabilitation  in  the  Eye 

of  an  International  Storm."  Pages  167-95  in  Huynh  Kim  Khanh 
(ed.),  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1982.  Singapore:  Heinemann  Educa- 
tional Books  (Asia),  1982. 

 "Origins  of  Khmer  Communism."  Pages  161-80  in  Leo 

Suryadinata  (ed.),  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1981.  Singapore: 
Heinemann  Educational  Books  (Asia),  1981. 

Kiernan,  Ben  and  Chanthou  Boua  (eds.).  Peasants  and  Politics  in 
Kampuchea,  1942-81.  London:  Zed  Press,  1982. 

Kiljunen,  Kimmo  (ed.).  Kampuchea:  Decade  of  the  Genocide — Report 
of  a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission.  London:  Zed  Books,  1984. 


331 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Kissinger,  Henry.  White  House  Years.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1979. 

 Years  of  Upheaval  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1982. 

Lao,  Mong  Hay.  "Kampuchea:  A  Stalemate?"  Pages  153-61  in 
Pushpa  Thambipillai  (ed.),  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1984, 
Singapore:  Heinemann  Educational  Books  (Asia),  1984. 

Leighton,  Marian  Kirsch.  "Perspectives  on  the  Vietnam-Cambodia 
Border  Conflict,"  Asian  Survey,  28,  No.  5,  May  1978,  448-57. 

Lichenstein,  Charles  M.  "China  in  the  U.N.:  The  Case  of  Kam- 
puchea," World  Affairs,  149,  No.  1,  Summer  1986,  21-24. 

Ma  Shengrong.  "Kampuchea:  Vietnamese  Troop  Pullout  Key  to 
Peace,"  Beijing  Review  [Beijing],  30,  No.  49,  December  7,  1987, 
14. 

Mahbubani,  Kishore.  "The  Kampuchean  Problem:  A  Southeast 

Asian  Perception,"  Foreign  Affairs,  62,  Winter  1983-84,  407-25. 
McBeth,  John.  "Forced  Human  Bondage,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 

Review  [Hong  Kong],  129,  No.  33,  August  22,  1985,  38-39. 
McMullen,  Greerson  G.  "New  Policy  Initiatives  for  the  U.S.  in 

Kampuchea,"  Asian  Wall  Street  Journal  [Hong  Kong],  May  18-19, 

1984,  8. 

Mean,  Sang  Khim.  "Democratic  Kampuchea:  An  Updated  View." 
Pages  95-106  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1977.  Singapore:  Inter- 
national Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1977. 

"Mochtar  Kusumaatmadja:  ASEAN  Will  Not  Accept  Five  Arti- 
cles Proposed  by  Nguyen  Co  Thach,"  Indonesian  Observer 
[Jakarta],  April  8,  1985,  4. 

"Mokhtar  Comments  on  Sihanouk,  Cambodia  Crisis.  "Jakarta  Post 
[Jakarta],  June  23,  1987,  1. 

Osborne,  Milton  E.  Before  Kampuchea:  Preludes  to  Tragedy.  London: 
George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 

Ponchaud,  Francois.  Cambodia:  Year  Zero.  (Trans.,  Nancy  Amphoux.) 
New  York:  Holt,  Rinehart  and  Winston,  1978. 

Pospelov,  D.,  and  Y.  Ryakin.  "Imperialist  and  Reactionary  Intrigues 
Against  People's  Kampuchea,"  Far  Eastern  Affairs  [Moscow], 
No.  3,  1984,  97-109. 

"The  PRK's  Great  National  Solidarity  Policy,"  Nhan  Dan  [Hanoi], 
August  29,  1987,  34-35. 

Quinn-Judge,  Paul.  "Coalition  Coalescent,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  123,  No.  1,  January  5,  1984,  14-15. 

 "Too  Few  Communists,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review 

[Hong  Kong],  123,  No.  7,  February  16,  1984,  20-22. 

Richburg,  Keith  B.  "Sihanouk's  Peace  Search  Splits  Cambodia 
Viewers,"  Washington  Post,  November  21,  1987,  A18. 

Schier,  Peter.  "Kampuchea  in  1985:  Between  Crocodiles  and 
Tigers."  Pages  139-61  in  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1986.  Singapore: 
Institute  of  Southeast  Asian  Studies,  1986. 


332 


Bibliography 


Shawcross,  William.  Sideshow:  Kissinger,  Nixon,  and  the  Destruction 

of  Cambodia.  London:  Fontana  Paperbacks,  1980. 
 The  Quality  of  Mercy:  Cambodia,  Holocaust,  and  Modern  Con- 
science. New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 
Simon,  Sheldon  W.  "Cambodia  and  Regional  Diplomacy."  Pages 

196-207  in  Huynh  Kim  Khanh  (ed.),  Southeast  Asian  Affairs,  1982. 

Singapore:  Heinemann  Educational  Books  (Asia),  1982. 
Smith,  R.  B.  "Cambodia  in  the  Context  of  Sino- Vietnamese 

Relations,"  Asian  Affairs  (London),  16,  October  1985,  273-87. 
Spragens,  John.  "Interview  with  Hun  Sen:  Solution  Cambodian 

Style,"  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review  [Hong  Kong],  123,  No.  1, 

January  5,  1984,  14-15. 
Stuart-Fox,  Martin.  The  Murderous  Revolution:  Life  and  Death  in  Pol 

Pot 's  Kampuchea  (Based  on  the  Personal  Experience  of  Bungheang  Ung). 

Chippendale,  Australia:  Alternative  Publishing  Cooperative, 

1985. 

Sukhumbhand,  Paribatra,  M.  R.  "Can  ASEAN  Break  the  Stale- 
mate?" World  Policy  Journal,  3,  No.  1,  Winter  1985-86,  85-106. 

Sutter,  Robert  G.  "The  Fighting  in  Cambodia:  Issues  for  U.S. 
Policy,"  (Library  of  Congress  Congressional  Research  Service, 
Report  No.  85-43F.)  February  1,  1985. 

Tasker,  Rodney.  "Divided  on  Peace:  Thai  and  Indonesian  Differ- 
ences Persist  over  Cambodian  Solution,"  Far  Eastern  Economic 
Review  [Hong  Kong],  132,  No.  17,  April  24,  1986,  47. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Directorate  of  Intelli- 
gence. Who's  Who  in  Cambodia:  A  Reference  Aid.  (No.  CR85- 
10626.)  Washington:  March  1985. 

United  States.  Congress.  97th.  2d  Session.  House.  Committee  on 
Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittees  on  Asian  and  Pacific  Affairs  and 
Human  Rights  and  International  Organizations.  The  Democratic 
Kampuchea  Seat  at  the  United  Nations  and  American  Interests.  (Hear- 
ings September  15,  1982.)  Washington:  GPO,  1983. 

Van  der  Kroef,  Justus  M.  "ASEAN,  Hanoi,  and  the  Kampuchean 
Conflict:  Between  'Kuantan'  and  a  'Third  Alternative',"  Asian 
Survey,  21,  No.  5,  May  1981,  515-35. 

 "Cambodia:  From  'Democratic  Kampuchea'  to  'Peoples' 

Republic',"  Asian  Survey,  19,  No.  8,  August  1979,  731-50. 

 "Kampuchea:  The  Diplomatic  Labyrinth,"  Asian  Survey, 

22,  No.  10,  October  1982,  1009-1033. 

 "Kampuchea:  Protracted  Conflict,  Suspended  Com- 
promise," Asian  Survey,  24,  No.  3,  March  1984,  314-34. 

 "  'Proximity  Cocktails'  and  'Provisional  Salvation':  Cam- 
bodia's Tortuous  Course,"  Issues  &  Studies  [Taipei],  22,  No.  4, 
April  1986,  120-39. 


333 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Vickery,  Michael.  Cambodia:  1975-82.  Boston:  South  End  Press, 
1984. 

 .  Kampuchea:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  (Marxist  Regimes 

series).  London:  Frances  Pinter,  1986. 
Wedel,  Paul.  "Cambodian  Communists  Build  Party  from  the  Top 

Down,"  Korea  Herald  [Seoul],  October  10,  1987,  8. 
Wheeler,  Jack.  "Cambodian  Foes  of  Hanoi's  Imperialism  Cry  Out 

for  U.S.  Aid,"  Wall  Street  Journal,  January  14,  1985,  17. 
Willmott,  W.  E.  "Analytical  Errors  of  the  Kampuchean  Com- 
munist Party,"  Pacific  Affairs,  54,  No.  2,  Summer  1981,  209-27. 
World  Policy  Institute.  "Special  Report  on  Indochina:  The 

Prospects  for  Peace,"  World  Policy  Journal,  3,  No.  1,  Winter 

1985-86,  83-155. 
Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs.  Stanford:  Hoover 

Institution  for  War,  Revolution  and  Peace,  1987. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Bangkok  Post  [Bangkok];  Far  Eastern  Eco- 
nomic Review  [Hong  Kong];  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review,  Asia 
Yearbook;  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  East 
Asia;  and  Daily  Report:  Soviet  Union;  Joint  Publications  Research 
Service,  East  Asia  Report;  Southeast  Asia  Report;  Vietnam  Courier 
[Hanoi];  New  York  Times;  and  Washington  Post. 

Chapter  5 

Abrams,  Floyd,  and  Diane  Orentlicher.  Kampuchea,  After  the  Worst: 
A  Report  on  Current  Violations  of  Human  Rights.  New  York:  Law- 
yers Committee  for  Human  Rights,  1985. 

Amnesty  International.  Kampuchea  Political  Imprisonment  and  Torture. 
London:  1987. 

"Asia  and  Australia."  Pacific  Defense  Reporter:  1988  Annual  Refer- 
ence Edition  [Kunyung,  Australia]  14,  Nos.  6-7,  December 
1987-January  1988,  144-162. 

Asia  1987  Yearbook.  Hong  Kong:  Far  Eastern  Economic  Review, 
1986. 

Becker,  Elizabeth.  When  the  War  Was  Over:  The  Voices  of  Cambodia's 
Revolution  and  Its  People.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1986. 

Bekaert,  Jacques.  "Cambodia:  The  Last  Dry  Season,"  Asian  Defence 
Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  No.  6,  June  1987,  44-51. 

 "War  in  Cambodia,  1979-86,"  Asian  Defence  Journal 

[Kuala  Lumpur],  No.  8,  August  1986,  17-19. 


334 


Bibliography 


Bell,  Sir  Hesketh.  Foreign  Colonial  Administration  in  the  Far  East.  Lon- 
don: Edward  Arnold,  1928. 

Burchett,  W.G.  Mekong  Upstream:  A  Visit  to  Laos  and  Cambodia. 
Berlin:  Seven  Seas  Publishers,  1959. 

Cambodia.  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Black  Paper:  Facts  and  Evi- 
dence of  Aggression  and  Annexation  Against  Kampuchea.  Phnom  Penh: 
September,  1978. 

 "The  Revolutionary  Army  of  Kampuchea,"  Democratic 

Kampuchea  Is  Moving  Forward  [Phnom  Penh],  August  1977. 

Cambodian  Documentation  Commission.  The  Case  Against  the  Khmer 
Rouge.  New  York:  Columbia  University,  1986. 

Cambodian  Information  Office.  Cambodia  Update,  May  1987,  1-4. 

"Cambodia  to  Have  MiGs?,"  Armed  Forces  [London],  6,  No.  5, 
May  1987. 

Carney,  Timothy.  "Heng  Samrin's  Armed  Forces  and  the  Mili- 
tary Balance  in  Cambodia,"  International  Journal  of  Politics,  16, 
No.  3,  Fall  1986,  150-85. 

Center  for  Defense  Information.  "Soviet  Geopolitical  Momentum: 
Myth  or  Menace?  Trends  of  Soviet  Influence  Around  the  World 
from  1945,"  Defense  Monitor,  15,  No.  5,  1986. 

Chanda,  Nayan.  Brother  Enemy:  The  War  After  the  War.  San  Diego: 
Harcourt  Brace  Jovanovich,  1986. 

 "Cambodia  in  1986:  Beginning  to  Tire,"  Asian  Survey,  27, 

No.  1,  January  1987,  115-24. 

Chandler,  David  P.  A  History  of  Cambodia.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1983. 

Colbert,  Evelyn.  "Standing  Pat,"  Foreign  Policy,  Spring  1984, 
139-55. 

Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook.  Washington:  Perth,  1987. 
Delvert,  Jean.  Le  Paysan  Cambodgien.  Paris  and  The  Hague:  Mou- 
ton,  1961. 

Duiker,  William  J.  "Applying  the  Lessons  of  Vietnam:  The  View 
from  Hanoi,"  Indochina  Issues,  No.  68,  August  1986. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Report,  Indochina:  Vietnam,  Laos, 
Cambodia,  No.  1  [London],  1986. 

Elliott,  David  W.P.  (ed.).  The  Third  Indochina  Conflict.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1981. 

Etcheson,  Craig.  The  Rise  and  Demise  of  Democratic  Kampuchea.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Fall,  Bernard  B.  The  Two  Viet-Nams:  A  Political  and  Military  Analy- 
sis. New  York:  Frederick  A.  Praeger,  1963. 

Golub,  Stephen.  Seeking  Shelter:  Cambodians  in  Thailand.  New  York: 
Lawyers  Committee  for  Human  Rights,  1986. 


335 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Gordon,  Bernard  K.  The  Dimensions  of  Conflict  in  Southeast  Asia. 

Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey:  Prentice- Hall,  1966. 
 "The  Third  Indochina  Conflict,"  Foreign  Affairs,  65, 

No.  1,  Fall  1986,  66-85. 
Gordon,  Bernard  K.,  and  Anne  V.  Cyr.  Cambodia  and  Southeast  Asian 

Regionalism.  Washington:  Research  Analysis  Corporation,  1969. 
Grant,  Jonathan  S.  (ed.).  Cambodia:  The  Widening  War  in  Indochina. 

New  York:  Washington  Square  Press,  1971. 
Haing  Ngor  (with  Roger  Warner).  A  Cambodian  Odyssey.  New  York: 

Macmillan,  1987. 
Hammer,  Ellen  J.  The  Struggle  for  Indochina.  Stanford,  California: 

Stanford  University  Press,  1954. 
"Hanoi  Deploys  More  Troops  to  Kampuchean  Border,"  Asian 

Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  3,  March  1986,  128. 
International  Documentation  and  Information  Center  (INTER- 
DOC).  Cambodia:  Problems  of  Neutrality  and  Independence.  The 

Hague:  May  1970. 
Kangtap  Padevat  [Phnom  Penh],  July  1,  1987,  7. 
Khmer  Nationalist  Joint  Office  of  Information.  "K.P.N.L.F.  Bulle- 
tin," [Tokyo],  1986-87. 
Kiernan,  Ben.  How  Pol  Pot  Came  to  Power.  London:  Verso,  1984. 
Kiljunen,  Kimmo  (ed.).  Kampuchea:  Decade  of  the  Genocide — Report 

of  a  Finnish  Inquiry  Commission.  London:  Zed  Books,  1984. 
Kobelev,  Yevgeny  (ed.).  Kampuchea:  From  Tragedy  to  Rebirth.  (Trans., 

Patricia  Beriozkina  and  Galina  Glagoleva.)  Moscow:  Progress 

Publishers,  1985. 
"The  K.P.N. L.F.  and  ANS  to  Coordinate  Military  Activities," 

Asian  Defence  Journal  [Kuala  Lumpur],  No.  8,  August  1985, 

112-13. 

Laurent,  Maurice.  L  Armee  au  Cambodge  et  dans  les  pays  envoie  de  de- 
veloppement  du  Sud-est  asiatique.  Paris:  Presses  universitaires  de 
France,  1968. 

Lawyers  Committee  for  Human  Rights.  Kampuchea:  After  the  Worst. 
New  York:  1985. 

Lebra,  Joyce  C.  Japanese-Trained  Armies  in  Southeast  Asia:  Indepen- 
dence and  Volunteer  Forces  in  World  War  II.  New  York:  Columbia 
University  Press,  1977. 

Leifer,  Michael.  Cambodia,  The  Search  for  Security.  New  York: 
Frederick  A.  Praeger,  1967. 

The  Military  Balance,  1986-1987.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1986. 

The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1987. 


336 


Bibliography 


"The  Military  Occupation  of  Kampuchea, "  Indochina  Report  [Sin- 
gapore], No.  3,  July- September  1985. 

Morris,  Stephen  J.  "Vietnam's  Vietnam,"  Atlantic  Monthly,  January 
1983,  71-82. 

"Mutiny  in  the  Khmer  Viet  Army,"  Asian  Defence  Journal  [Kuala 
Lumpur],  No.  7,  July  1986,  96. 

Nixon,  Richard.  U.S.  Foreign  Policy  for  the  1970s:  A  New  Strategy  for 
Peace.  (A  Report  to  the  Congress.)  Washington:  GPO,  1970. 

 U.S.  Foreign  Policy  for  the  1970s:  Building  for  Peace.  (A  Report 

to  the  Congress.)  Washington:  GPO,  1971. 

 U.S.  Foreign  Policy  for  the  1970s:  The  Emerging  Structure  of 

Peace.  (A  Report  to  the  Congress.)  Washington:  GPO,  1972. 

Poole,  Peter  A.  Expansion  of  the  Vietnam  War  into  Cambodia.  (Southeast 
Asia  series.)  Athens,  Ohio:  Ohio  University  Center  for  Inter- 
national Studies,  1970. 

Pym,  Christopher.  The  Ancient  Civilization  of  Angkor.  New  York  and 
Toronto:  New  American  Library,  Mentor  Books,  1968. 

Quinn,  Kenneth.  "Cambodian  Secret  Police."  Pages  195-232  in 
Jonathan  R.  Adelman  (ed.),  Terror  and  Communist  Politics:  The 
Role  of  the  Secret  Police  in  Communist  States.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1984. 

Quinn-Judge,  Paul.  "The  Khmer  Resistance:  State  of  the  Union," 
Indochina  Issues,  No.  40,  September  1983. 

Rogers,  William  P.  United  States  Foreign  Policy,  1969-1970:  A  Report 
of  the  Secretary  of  State.  (General  Foreign  Policy  Series  254,  Publi- 
cation 8575.)  Washington:  GPO,  1971. 

.  United  States  Foreign  Policy,  1971:  A  Report  of  the  Secretary  of 

State.  (General  Foreign  Policy  Series  260,  Publication  8634.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1972. 

 United  States  Foreign  Policy,  1972:  A  Report  of  the  Secretary  of 

State.  (General  Foreign  Policy  Series  274,  Publication  8699.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1973. 

Rowan,  Roy.  The  Four  Days  of  Mayaguez.  New  York:  W.W.  Nor- 
ton and  Company,  1975. 

Shawcross,  William.  The  Quality  of  Mercy:  Cambodia,  Holocaust,  and 
Modern  Conscience.  New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1984. 

 Sideshow:  Kissinger,  Nixon  and  the  Destruction  of  Cambodia.  New 

York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1979. 

Sihanouk,  Prince  Norodom.  Ombre  Sur  Angkor.  Phnom  Penh: 
Sangkum  Reastr  Niyum,  1968. 

 War  and  Hope:  The  Case  for  Cambodia.  (Trans.,  Mary 

Feeney.)  New  York:  Pantheon  Books,  1980. 

Sihanouk,  Prince  Norodom  (as  related  to  Wilfred  Burchett).  My 
War  with  the  CIA:  Cambodia's  Fight  for  Survival.  London:  Penguin 
Books,  1973. 


337 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 

Sisowath,  Prince  Thomico.  1 4  Norodom  Sihanouk  and  the  Khmer 
Factions,"  Indochina  Report  [Singapore],  No.  9,  October- 
December  1986. 

Smith,  Roger  M.  Cambodia's  Foreign  Policy.  Ithaca,  New  York:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1965. 

Solarz,  Stephen  J.  ' ' When  to  Intervene,"  Foreign  Policy,  No.  63, 
Summer  1986,  20-39. 

Sutsakhan,  Sak.  The  Khmer  Republic  at  War  and  the  Final  Collapse. 
Washington:  U.S.  Army  Center  of  Military  History,  1980. 

Swaan,  Wim.  Lost  Cities  of  Asia:  Ceylon,  Pagan,  and  Angkor.  Lon- 
don: Elek  Books,  1966. 

Teston,  Eugene,  and  Maurice  Percheron  (eds.).  LTndochine  Moderne. 
Paris:  Librairie  de  France,  1931. 

Thach  Bunroeun.  The  Kampuchea-Krom  Geopolitical  Issue.  New  York: 
The  National  Association  of  Khmer  Kampuchea-Krom,  1986. 

Thayer,  Carlyle  A.  "The  Vietnam  People's  Army  Today,"  Indo- 
china Issues,  No.  72,  January  1987. 

United  Kingdom.  Central  Office  of  Information.  Vietnam,  Laos  and 
Cambodia:  Chronology  of  Events  1945-68.  London:  British  Infor- 
mation Services,  1968. 

United  Kingdom.  "Human  Rights  Violations  in  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea," Foreign  Policy  Documents,  No.  25,  July  14,  1978. 

United  States.  Congress.  93d,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations.  Subcommittee  on  U.S.  Security  Agreements 
and  Commitments  Abroad.  Thailand,  Laos,  Cambodia,  and  Viet- 
nam, April  1973:  A  Staff  Report.  Washington:  GPO,  1973. 

 Congress.  97th.  2d  Session.  House.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs.  Subcommittees  on  Asian  and  Pacific  Affairs  and 
Human  Rights  and  International  Organizations.  The  Democratic 
Kampuchea  Seat  at  the  United  Nations  and  American  Interests.  (Hear- 
ings September  15,  1982.)  Washington:  GPO,  1983. 

 Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  Senate  and  House.  Com- 
mittees on  Foreign  Relations  and  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Senate 
and  the  House  of  Representatives.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1986.  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  Kampuchea  (Cambodia).  Washington:  GPO,  May  1984. 

 Department  of  State.  "Chronology  of  Developments 

Affecting  Cambodia,  AD  200-1969,"  Bangkok,  February  7, 
1975. 

 _.  Department  of  State.  "Chronology  of  Developments 

Affecting  Cambodia,  June  1969-May  1970,"  Bangkok,  Febru- 
ary 7,  1975. 


338 


Bibliography 


 .  Department  of  State.  "Chronology  of  Developments 

Affecting  Cambodia,  May  1970-December  1974,"  Bangkok, 

February  7,  1975. 
United  States.  General  Accounting  Office.  U.S.  Assistance  to  the 

Khmer  Republic  (Cambodia)  (Report  to  the  Congress.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1973. 
Van  der  Kroef,  Justus  M.  "Dynamics  of  the  Cambodian  Conflict," 

Conflict  Studies  [London],  No.  183,  1985. 
 "A  New  Phase  in  the  Cambodian  Conflict,"  Issues  & 

Studies  [Taipei],  21,  No.  7,  July  1985,  109-29. 
Vo  Dong  Giang.  "The  View  from  Hanoi,"  World  Policy  Journal, 

3,  No.  1,  Winter  1985-86,  107-26. 
Wales,  Horace  Geoffrey  Quaritch.  Ancient  South-east  Asian  Warfare. 

London:  B.  Quaritch,  1952. 
White,  Peter  T.  "Kampuchea  Awakens  from  a  Nightmare," 

National  Geographic,  161,  No.  5,  May  1982,  590-621. 
 "The  Temples  of  Angkor,  Ancient  Glory  in  Stone," 

National  Geographic,  161,  No.  5,  May  1982,  552-89. 
Willenson,  Kim,  et  al.  The  Bad  War:  An  Oral  History  of  the  Vietnam 

War.  New  York  and  Scarborough,  Ontario:  New  American 

Library,  1987. 

Wood,  W.A.R.  A  History  ofSiam.  Bangkok:  The  Siam  Barnakich 
Press,  1926. 


339 


Glossary 


bodhisattva — One  destined  to  become  a  buddha  (enlightened  one); 
a  person  who  has  achieved  enlightenment,  but  who  defers 
achieving  nirvana  in  order  to  help  others  achieve  it. 

Cham — Also  known  as  Chams,  as  Khmer  Islam,  and  as  Cham- 
Malay;  a  Muslim  minority  people. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — Calendar  year. 

Gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — The  value  of  domestic  goods  and 
services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a  certain  period,  such 
as  a  year.  Only  output  of  goods  for  final  consumption  and  for 
investment  are  included  because  the  values  of  primary  and  of 
intermediate  production  are  assumed  to  be  included  in  final 
prices.  GDP  sometimes  is  aggregated  and  shown  in  market 
prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are  included; 
when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the  reductions  for  deprecia- 
tion of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made.  See  also  gross  na- 
tional product. 

Gross  national  product  (GNP) — gross  domestic  product  (GDP) 
adjusted  by  net  income  (such  as  return  on  investments),  or  loss 
(such  as  debt  service  payments),  arising  from  transactions  with 
foreign  countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measure  of  the  output 
of  goods  and  of  services  by  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated 
at  market  prices,  which  include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 
GNP  is  often  calculated  at  factor  cost  by  removing  indirect  taxes 
and  subsidies  because  these  are  only  transfer  payments.  See  also 
gross  domestic  product. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations;  it  is  responsible  for  stabilizing 
international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  busi- 
ness of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members 
(including  industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they 
experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  fre- 
quently carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  eco- 
nomic adjustments  by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are 
developing  countries. 

Phumphaek — Six  areas  into  which  Cambodia  was  divided  in  1973. 

riel — The  Khmer  Republic's  currency  unit,  divided  into  100  sen. 
Since  October  29,  1971,  its  exchange  rate  has  been  adjusted 
by  the  National  Bank  of  Cambodia  according  to  market  fluc- 
tuations; the  initial  rate,  set  on  October  29,  1971,  was  140  riels 


341 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


to  US$1 .  Past  exchange  rates  have  been  35  riels  to  US$1  (Janu- 
ary 1955  to  August  1969)  and  55.4  riels  to  US$1  (August  1969 
to  October  1971,  following  devaluation). 

ruble — The  Soviet  Union's  currency  unit.  In  June  1987,  its  value 
was  approximately  0.64  rubles  to  US$1. 

sangha — Ascetic  community  within  which  a  man  can  improve  his 
karma;  brotherhood  of  Buddhist  monks;  the  Theravada  Bud- 
dhist clergy. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund, 
administered,  however,  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up 
in  1960  to  furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries 
on  much  easier  terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans. 
The  IFC,  founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the 
IBRD  through  loans  and  through  assistance  designed  specifi- 
cally to  encourage  the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises 
in  the  less  developed  countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior 
officers  of  the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The 
three  institutions  are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  coun- 
tries that  subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World 
Bank  group,  member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund  (q-v.). 


342 


Index 


Abdul  Gaffar  Peangmeth,  206 

achar  (ritualist),  96,  97,  121 

Acquired  Immune  Deficiency  Syndrome 

(AIDS),  135 
administrative  divisions  {see  also  Naval 

Zone  Five;  provincial  divisions;  Special 

Military  Administrative  Zone),  81; 

Khmer  Rouge,  60-61;  PRK,  xxi,  214, 

261-62 

agriculture  sector  {see  also  irrigation  sys- 
tem), 141,  145,  148;  collectivization  of, 
xvii,  xxxii,  90,  151,  153-54,  157, 
160-62;  commercial  crops  of,  164-65; 
development  under  Vietnamese- 
directed  regime,  158;  under  Khmer 
Rouge  regime,  58-59,  152-53; 
livestock  production  of,  165;  principal 
food  crops  of,  xvii-xviii,  162-64;  slash- 
and-burn,  76,  85,  101;  taxation  of,  177 

air  force:  KPRAF,  181,  267,  291,  292 

Air  Kampuchea,  xix,  181-82 

airlifts,  48,  260 

airports/airfields,  xix,  181-82 

airspace  violations,  33,  41  {see  also  Menu 
series) 

air  strikes  {see  also  Arclight  missions; 
Menu  series),  connected  with  Second 
Indochina  War,  xxix;  against  North 
Vietnam  and  Khmer  Rouge,  5,  45;  by 
United  States,  45-46,  68,  255,  260, 
263;  by  Vietnam,  68 
Alliance  of  Communist  Youth  of  Kam- 
puchea, 57 
Alliance  of  Democratic  Khmer  Youth,  57 
American  Catholic  Relief  Services,  174 
American  Friends  Service  Committee, 
174 

Amnesty  International,  51,  301,  302 

Ang  Chan  (Khmer  king),  13 

Ang  Duong  (Khmer  king),  15,  16,  243 

Ang  Eng  (Khmer  king),  15 

Angkar  (Angkar  Loeu),  47,  51-55,  61-62 

Angkor,  xxvi-xxvii,  3,  12,  16,  25 

Angkorian  period,  xxvi,  9,  11,  36,  87,  242 

Angkor  Thorn,  xxvi,  3,  11,  12 

Angkor  Wat,  10-11,  44,  242 

Ang  Snuol,  47 

animism,  57,  124-25 


Annam,  18,  36 

ANS.  See  Sihanouk  National  Army  (ANS) 

arak  (spirits),  121 

Aranyaprathet  (Thailand),  68,  86 

Arclight  missions,  45-46 

armed  forces:  of  CGDK,  xxi;  develop- 
ment and  expansion  of,  247,  257;  of 
Vietnam  occupation,  276-95;  of  PRK, 
xxii 

Army  of  the  Republic  of  Vietnam 
(ARVN),  33 

ASEAN.  See  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 

Asian  Development  Bank,  xx,  150,  169 

assimilation,  xxix,  103,  104,  108 

Association  of  Democratic  Khmer 
Women,  54-55 

Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN),  187,  224-25;  assistance  to 
and  support  for  CGDK  by,  xxiii, 
xxxiv-xxxv;  position  on  PRK  of,  191, 
196;  role  in  coalition  government 
(CGDK)  creation,  268,  275;  role  in 
conflict  resolution  in  Cambodia  of, 
xxxiv,  225 

Association  of  Vietnamese  in  Cambodia, 
136 

atrocities:  by  Khmer  Rouge,  47,  68, 

190-92 
Australia,  149 
Austroasiatic  origin,  6,  110 
Austronesian  languages/groups  {see  also 

Cham;  Jarai;  Rade;  Malay),  14,  15, 

101,  112 
autonomous  zone,  xxviii,  25 
Ayutthaya,  105 

Bahnaric  language  (Mon-Khmer),  111 
Ba  Kev,  143 

balance  of  payments  {see  also  trade  deficit), 

xvii,  xviii 
Bandung  Conference  (1955),  31 
bang  classification,  107 
Bangkok,  25,  79 
Bangkok  Plot,  252 
banking  system,  176 
Bantay  Meanchey  province,  xiv 


343 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Baptists,  124 

barter  system:  under  Khmer  Rouge,  58, 
154;  under  PRK,  154;  with  Soviet 
Union,  172;  with  Vietnamese  sister 
provinces,  170-71 

Basak  River,  81,  110 

Batdambang  airport,  xix 

Batdambang  City,  249 

Batdambang  (Battambang)  province,  xiv, 
5,  15,  16,  19,  20,  24,  26,  42,  49,  50, 
61,  66,  99,  100,  105,  110,  143,  148, 
166,  268 

the  Bayon,  xxvi,  11 

Becker,  Elizabeth,  262 

Beijing,  200 

besach  (demons),  121 

BGN.  See  United  States  Board  of  Geo- 
graphic Names  (BGN) 

Bien  Hoa,  99 

birth  control.  See  family  planning 
Black  Book,  63,  263 
black  market,  134,  150,  177 
bodhisattva,  11,  115 
bombing  raids.  See  air  strikes 
bonzes,  116-17,  125 
Borai  refuge  camp,  87 
boundaries/borders.  See  France;  Laos; 

Thailand;  Vietnam 
Boun  Oum,  33 

Brao  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  104 
Brevie  Line,  68,  262 
Britain,  27,  223 
bronze  use,  6 
the  Buddha,  113 

Buddhism  (see  also  Mahayana  Buddhism; 
Theravada  Buddhism),  11,  12,  112-22, 
130-31 

Buddhist  education,  130-31 
Buddhist  Institute,  131 
Buddhist  monks'  hospital,  134 
Buddhists:  Cambodian,  115-22;  persecu- 
tion of,  55 
Buddhist  University,  130-31 
budget  deficit,  159 
Bulgaria,  173 
Buor  Hel,  207 
Burma,  10,  15,  20,  30 
Burmese  in  Cambodia,  110 

Calmette  Hospital,  55,  135 
Cambodia  (see  also  Kambuja;  State  of 
Cambodia),  xiv,  xv,  3 


Cambodian  Buddhism.  See  Buddhists 
Cambodian  People's  National  Liberation 

Armed  Forces  (CPNLAF),  44-45,  317, 

320;  renamed  RAK(1975),  261;  U.S. 

air  strikes  against,  260 
Cambodian  Red  Cross,  136 
Cambodia- Vietnam  border:  Viet  Cong 

bases  at,  42 
Cantonese  linguistic  group,  106-7 
Cao  Ha,  99 

Cardamom  Mountains,  xvi,  76,  79,  80 
CARE,  174 
cassava,  164 
Catholicism,  124 

CEMA.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Economic 
Assistance  (CMEA;  CEMA;  Comecon) 

Center  for  Pedagogical  Education,  128 

Central  Office  for  South  Vietnam 
(COSVN),  45 

Central  Zone,  54,  61 

CGDK.  See  Coalition  Government  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea  (CGDK) 

Chakri  kings,  15 

Chak  Saroeun,  207 

Chamcar  Daung  Faculty  of  Agriculture, 
128 

Champa  kingdom,  xxvi,  xxvii,  10,  14,  99, 
243 

Cham  people,  xvi,  11,  14,  75,  76,  83,  84, 
87,  91,  99-101,  243;  language  of,  112, 
115;  persecution  in  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea of,  55-56,  122-24;  religion  of, 
122-24;  society  of,  99-101 

Chandler,  David  P.,  xiv,  20,  36,  242 

Chan  Si,  209 

Chattomukh  (Four  Faces),  81 

Chea  Sim,  208 

Chea  Soth,  209 

Cheng  Heng,  48 

Chenla  I,  258,  259 

Chenla  II,  258,  259 

Chenla  kingdom,  xxv,  xxvi,  3;  Land 

(Upper)  Chenla  and  Water  (Lower) 

Chenla,  9 
Chey  Chetta  II  (Khmer  king),  14 
Chhea  Song,  162 
Chhet  Chuen.  See  Ta  Mok 
children,  94-95,  97 

China,  People's  Republic  of,  10,  13,  27, 
29,  41,  42,  43-44,  52,  57,  65,  244;  aid 
to/support  of  Khmer  Rouge  by, 
191-92,  196,  271-72;  aid  to  Royal  Thai 
Army  by,  278;  assistance  to  CGDK  by, 


344 


Index 


xxiii,  xxxiv-xxxv,  222;  economic  as- 
sistance from,  148,  152;  influence  on 
Democratic  Kampuchea  of,  65;  invades 
Vietnam,  192-93,  209;  position  on 
PRK  of,  191-93;  relations  with,  4, 
30-35,  252;  trade  with  Khmer  Rouge 
regime,  58 

Chinese:  in  Cambodia,  xvi,  20,  83,  84, 
87-88,  106-8,  152;  as  refugees,  48-49, 
86,  91;  religion  of  Cambodian,  122; 
treatment  in  Democratic  Kampuchea 
of,  56-57 

Chinese  hospital,  134 

Chinese  Hospital  Committee,  107 

chol  chnam  (New  Year  Festival),  120 

chol  vossa,  120 

Chong  subgroup  (Pearic),  105 
Christian  and  Missionary  Alliance,  124 
Christianity,  124-25 
Christians,  55 

Chulalongkorn  (king  of  Thailand),  18-19 

Chuon,  Nath,  111 

Church  World  Service,  174 

CIA.  See  U.S.  Central  Intelligence 
Agency  (CIA) 

civil  war  in  Cambodia:  international  im- 
pact of,  xxxiv-xxxv 

class  structure,  97-99 

climate  (see  also  weather),  xvi,  76,  79- 
80 

clothing:  of  Cham  people,  100;  of  Khmer 
people,  92,  94 

CMEA.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Economic 
Assistance  (CMEA;  CEMA;  Comecon) 

Coalition  Government  of  Democratic 
Kampuchea  (CGDK),  xv,  xx,  195, 
205,  317,  318;  activity  of,  xxxiv-xxxv, 
189-90,  275;  armed  forces  of,  xxi- 
xxii;  assistance  to,  225;  Chinese  aid 
for,  278;  competes  for  power,  189, 
222;  effect  of  insurgent  forces  of, 
267-68,  278;  formation  and  structure 
of,  199-203,  204,  225-26;  relations 
with  and  recognition  by  other  coun- 
tries of,  222-23;  United  Nations  repre- 
sentatives of,  223 

Cochinchina  (see  also  Kampuchea  Krom), 
16,  18,  20,  21,  36,  262 

Coedes,  George,  11 

collectivization.  See  agriculture  sector 

Comecon.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Eco- 
nomic Assistance  (CMEA;  CEMA; 
Comecon) 


communist  intellectuals.  See  Ieng  Sary; 
Khieu  Samphan;  Pol  Pot 

communist  movement  in  Cambodia  (see 
also  Indochinese  Communist  Party 
(ICP);  Khmer  Rouge;  Khmer  Viet 
Minh),  5,  35-41,  42,  60,  217;  alliance 
with  Sihanouk  in  exile,  xxxi;  Paris  stu- 
dent group  role  in,  38-40 

Communist  Party,  France,  39 

concubinage,  96 

Confederation  of  Khmer  Nationalists,  195 

Confucianism,  36,  122 

conscription:  KPRAF,  287,  291-92 

constabulary,  244-45,  246 

constitutions:  of  Cambodia:  1946,  xxviii, 
24;  of  People's  Republic  of  Kam- 
puchea: 1976,  52,  55,  60-61,  61-62, 
153;  of  People's  Republic  of  Kam- 
puchea: 1980,  193-94;  of  People's 
Republic  of  Kampuchea:  1981,  xxxv, 
156-58,  209-11,  299-300;  as  rationale 
for  armed  force  in  PRK,  279 

Consultative  Assembly,  23,  24 

Cooperation  Internationale  pour  le  De- 
veloppement  et  la  Solidarite,  174 

corn,  19-20,  164 

COSVN.  See  Central  Office  for  South 
Vietnam  (COSVN) 

Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(CMEA;  CEMA;  Comecon),  xviii, 
142,  146,  168;  economic  assistance 
from,  173;  trade  with  Cambodia  of, 
168,  169 

Council  of  Ministers  (CGDK),  202-3 
Council  of  Ministers  (PRK),  xxi,  210, 

211-14,  280 
Council  of  State  (PRK),  xxi,  210,  211 
counterinsurgency,  284,  285,  289 
coup  d'etat  (1970),  5,  43,  44,  127,  255 
coup  d'etats,  attempted,  64,  65,  69 
court  system:  PRK,  xxi,  213-14,  300- 

302 

CPNLAF.  See  Cambodian  People's 
National  Liberation  Armed  Forces 
(CPNLAF) 

criminal  offenses:  PRK,  299-300 

currency  (see  also  foreign  exchange;  riel); 
abolition  under  Khmer  Rouge  of,  58, 
154;  change  in  value  of  riel,  146;  non- 
negotiability  of,  xix;  recall  and  return 
to  use  of,  154,  157 

Czechoslovakia:  economic  assistance 
from,  148-49,  173;  trade  with,  172 


345 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


damban  (regions),  61 

Dangrek  Mountains,  xvi,  76,  79,  81 

Dap  Chhuon,  33,  252 

Dean,  John  Gunther,  48 

death,  97 

debt,  external,  169 
deGaulle,  Charles,  22 
Delvert,  Jean,  124 

Democratic  Kampuchea.  See  constitu- 
tions; People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea 
(PRK);  Khmer  Rouge 

Democratic  Party,  xxviii,  23,  24,  25, 
28-29 

Deng  Xiaoping,  65 

Devaraja  cult,  xxvi 

Dien  Del:  KPNLAF,  194,  206-7,  272, 

320 
diet,  91-92 
disease,  132 
divorce,  96 
drainage,  80-81 
dress.  See  clothing 
drought,  141,  164 
dry  beans,  164 

earth  satellite  station,  xix,  182 
Eastern  Baray,  10 

Eastern  Zone,  53-54,  61,  64,  65,  66, 
68-69 

East  Germany:  trade  with,  172 

Ebihara,  May  Mayko,  118 

economic  assistance  (see  also  humanitari- 
an assistance;  military  assistance),  4,  5, 
142,  146,  148-49,  151,  170,  189;  from 
ASEAN  and  China  to  ANS/FUNCIN- 
PEC,  275;  from  Comecon  countries, 
173;  from  international  organizations, 
173;  from  Soviet  Union,  193;  from 
Vietnam,  170-71,  193 

economic  decline,  xxix 

economic  growth,  148 

economic  planning  (see  also  First  Plan: 
1986-90),  141 

Economic  Support  Fund,  151 

educational  system  (see  also  schools),  xvi- 
xvii,  125-31;  in  Buddhist  tradition, 
130-31;  divisions  in,  125,  128;  higher 
education  in,  127;  under  Khmer  Rouge 
regime,  57;  primary  education  in, 
125-26,  128,  130;  private,  131;  secon- 
dary education  in,  126,  128,  130 

elections:  for  Consultative  Assembly,  23, 


24;  for  National  Assembly,  24,  25,  30, 
37 

Elephant  Range,  xvi,  76,  79,  80 
emigration,  83,  85;  of  Chinese,  106 
Engineering  School,  292 
enlistment:  KPRAF,  287 
Etcheson,  Craig,  54,  63,  65 
ethnic  groups  (see  also  Khmer  people; 
Cham;  Khmer  Loeu;  Chinese;  Viet- 
namese; Europeans;  Indians),  xvi 
Europeans,  13,  83,  110 
evacuees.  See  refugees 
exchange  rate  system,  xix,  150 
executions:  by  Khmer  Rouge,  50-51,  56; 

at  Tuol  Sleng,  66 
executive  branch:  PRK,  61 
export-import  agency:  SONEXIM,  150 
export  license  suspension,  150 
export  partners.  See  trading  partners 
exports,  xviii,  149,  159,  168-69 


factories.  See  industrial  sector 

Faculty  of  Medicine,  Pharmacy,  and 

Paramedical  Science,  133 
Faculty  of  Medicine  and  Pharmacy,  128, 

133,  134-35 
Fallaci,  Oriana,  44 
family  planning,  94,  135 
family  structure,  75,  94,  95-97;  of  Khmer 

people,  88-89 
FANK.   See  Khmer  National  Armed 

Forces  (FANK) 
FAO.  See  United  Nations  Food  and 

Agriculture  Organization  (FAO) 
FARK.  See  Royal  Khmer  Armed  Forces 

(Forces  Armees  Royales  Khmeres, 

FARK) 

Federated  Association  of  Chinese  of  Cam- 
bodia, 107-8 

female  role,  89,  94,  98,  101,  114,  133 

First  Five-Year  Program  of  Socioeco- 
nomic Restoration  and  Development. 
See  First  Plan  (1986-90) 

First  Plan  (1986-90),  xvii-xviii,  141,  144, 
156,  158-59,  165,  189,  219;  emphasis 
on  exports  of,  168-69 

fiscal  policy,  150,  177 

fishing  and  fisheries,  xvii-xxviii,  7,  158, 
165 

Fishhook  engagement,  263 
flooding,  81,  90,  164 


346 


Index 


food,  91-92;  production  of,  158;  short- 
ages, 155,  159 
food  aid,  151 

forced-labor,  xxvi,  xxix,  xxxii,  11,  19,  53, 
145,  152,  154,  160 

foreign  aid.  See  economic  assistance;  hu- 
manitarian assistance;  military  as- 
sistance 

foreign  exchange,  169,  177 

foreign  policy,  nonaligned.  See  Sihanouk 
(as  prince) 

Foreign  Trade  Bank,  168,  169 

forestry,  xvii-xviii,  144 

France  (see  also  Franco-Cambodian 
Modus  Vivendi;  Franco-Khmer  Mili- 
tary Convention;  Free  French;  Vichy 
government),  Cambodia  as  protec- 
torate of,  xxvii,  4,  12,  16,  18,  103, 
241,  243-44;  colonial  domination  by, 
xxvii,  4,  12,  18;  colonial  military 
forces  of,  244;  concession  of  Cambo- 
dian provinces  by,  245;  dissolution  of 
colonial  administration,  22;  economic 
assistance  by,  149;  established  in  In- 
dochina, 16;  influence  in  Cambodia 
of,  125;  military  assistance  agreement 
with  United  States  of,  249,  253; 
military  force  agreement  with 
Cambodia  of,  247-48,  249;  represen- 
tation at  Geneva  Conference  by, 
27-28;  role  during  and  after  World 
War  II,  20-26 

Franco-Cambodian  Modus  Vivendi, 
247-48 

Franco-Khmer  Military  Convention,  248 

Franco-Siamese  War,  xxvii 

Free  French,  22 

French  Protectorate.  See  France 

French  Union,  22,  24,  27,  248,  249 

Friendship  Highway,  254 

FULRO.  See  United  Front  for  the  Liber- 
ation of  Oppressed  Races  (FULRO) 

Funan  kingdom,  xxv,  3,  6-7,  9,  87,  112, 
115 

FUNCINPEC.  See  National  United  Front 
for  an  Independent,  Neutral,  Peaceful, 
and  Cooperative  Cambodia  (FUN- 
CINPEC) 

FUNK.  See  National  United  Front  of 
Kampuchea  (FUNK) 


Gang  of  Four,  65 


GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 

and  Trade  (GATT) 
Gautama  Buddha,  113,  122 
gem  mining,  143 

General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT),  xx 

General  Staff:  PRK,  280-81 

Geneva  Conference  on  Indochina  (1954), 
4,  27-28,  30,  36,  251 

geography,  xv-xvi,  76,  78 

Germany,  Democratic  Republic  of  (East 
Germany),  173 

Germany,  Federal  Republic  of  (West 
Germany),  149 

Gia  Long  (emperor  of  Vietnam),  107 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product  (GNP) 

government,  xx-xxi 

government  administration.  See  adminis- 
trative divisions 

government  class,  97 

Greater  East  Asia  Co-Prosperity  Sphere, 
22 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  xvii,  148, 
165 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  xvii,  148 
Group  of  77,  xx 

GRUNK.  See  Royal  Government  of  Na- 
tional Union  of  Kampuchea  (GRUNK) 

guerrilla  activity:  Cambodian,  xxviii,  23, 
178;  of  CGDK  forces,  242,  268;  of 
Khmer  Rouge,  xxxiii,  6,  188,  193,  261, 
267,  271,318;ofKPNLAF/ANS  non- 
communist  force,  xxxiv,  272-73;  non- 
communist,  266-67;  of  Pol  Pot  forces, 
41 

Gulf  of  Thailand,  76,  79,  80,  143-44 


Hainanese  linguistic  group,  106-7 

Hakka  linguistic  group,  106-7 

handicraft  industry,  167 

Hariharalaya,  10 

Headley,  Robert,  110 

health.  See  disease;  forced-labor;  health 
care;  herbal  remedies;  hospitals;  mor- 
tality rates;  public  health 

health  care,  xvii,  132-35;  in  Democratic 
Kampuchea,  58 

Hem  Chieu,  21,  245 

Heng  Samrin,  66,  141,  142,  145,  156, 
158,  159;  leader  of  faction  of  KCP,  217; 
president  of  KPRC,  191 ;  PRK  regime 
of,  75-76,  160-62,  187-89,  193,  205, 


347 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


213,  215,  219,  220,  224-26;  replaces 
Pen  Sovan,  218;  role  in  KNUFNS,  208 

herbal  remedies,  133-34 

highways,  149,  178 

Hindu  cults,  11,  12 

Hing  Kunthon,  206 

Ho  Chi  Minh,  34,  36,  189,  317,  321 

Ho  Chi  Minh  City  (Saigon),  14,  158 

Ho  Chi  Minh  Trail,  34,  42 

Hokkien  linguistic  group,  106-7 

hospitals,  xvii,  133-35 

housing:  of  Khmer  Loeu  people,  101;  of 
Khmer  people,  90-91 

Hou  Yuon,  4,  19,  29,  30,  38-39,  40,  43, 

63,  64,  66 

Huay  Chan  refugee  camp,  87 
humanitarian  assistance,  173,  241 
Hungary,  173 

Hu  Nim,  4,  29,  30,  38-39,  40,  43,  63, 

64,  66 

Hun  Sen,  xiv,  209;  on  KPRAF  troop 
withdrawal,  296;  in  KPRP  puppet 
government,  189;  in  PRK  government, 
211,  231,  232-36 

Huy  Kanthoul,  206 

hydroelectric  power,  xviii,  143 

ICP.  See  Indochinese  Communist  Party 
(ICP) 

Ieng  Sary,  5,  37,  38-39,  40,  44,  55,  65, 
68,  151,  153;  as  leader  of  Khmer 
Rouge,  205;  role  in  NADK  of,  269,  271 

Ieng  Thirith.  See  Khieu  Thirith 

illiteracy,  128,  215 

immigration:  from  India,  7;  of  Viet- 
namese, 85-86 

imports,  xviii,  149-51,  169 

independence,  xv,  xxviii,  4,  22,  24, 
25-26,  27,  37,  133,  249-50 

India,  30;  religious  and  political  influence 
of,  3,  7,  9 

Indian  Ocean,  13 

Indians  (East)  in  Cambodia,  110 

Indochina  Union  (Union  Indochinoise), 
18 

Indochinese  Communist  Party  (ICP),  35, 

36,  62,  189-90,  215,  317,  319 
Indochinese  Peninsula,  6 
Indonesia,  30,  230 
Indravarman  I,  10 

industrial  sector,  xviii,  141,  145,  153, 
165-66;  under  Khmer  Rouge  regime, 


59,  153;  manufacturing  industries  in, 
166;  under  First  Plan,  158-59 

Infantry  School,  292 

inflation,  150 

infrastructure,  xvii,  19,  142,  159,  177-83 

Institute  of  Commerce,  128 

Institute  of  Languages,  128 

insurgent  forces,  42;  anti- Vietnamese, 
266-68,  274,  279;  base  of,  57;  of  coali- 
tion government  (CGDK),  xxiii, 
278-79;  communist-led,  5;  of  Khmer 
Rouge  against  Vietnam  (North) 
government,  260,  Son  Sann-led 
KPNLF/KPNLAF,  xxxiv 

In  Tam,  48,  207 

intellectual  elite,  98 

interest  rates,  150 

Intergovernmental  Commission  for 
Trade,  Economic,  Scientific  and  Tech- 
nical Cooperation,  171 

International  Commission  for  Supervision 
and  Control.  See  International  Control 
Commission 

International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross,  173,  175-76 

International  Conference  on  Kampuchea 
(1981),  199,  201;  declaration  of  prin- 
ciples of,  225 

International  Control  Commission,  28 

International  Monetary  Fund,  xx,  150 

international  organizations,  173-74, 
175-76 

International  Red  Cross,  xx 
International  Telecommunications 

Union,  xx 
Interpol,  xx 

Intersputnik  space  communications,  182 

iron  ore,  6,  143 

Irrawaddy  River,  10 

irrigation  systems,  xviii,  3,  7,  59,  142 

Islam,  99-100,  122-24 

Ith  Sarin,  46-47 


Japan:  dissolves  French  colonial  adminis- 
tration, xxviii,  22,  246;  economic  as- 
sistance by,  149;  occupation  of  Vietnam 
and  Cambodia  by,  xxviii,  21,  245;  role 
in  Vichy  government  administration  of, 
4;  terminates  aid,  142 

Jarai  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  101,  104, 
105,  125 

Jarai  people:  language  of,  112 


348 


Index 


Java,  9 

Jayavarman  II,  xxvi,  9,  10 
Jayavarman  VII,  xxvi,  3,  11,  135,  243 
journals,  printed,  214 
judiciary:  PRK  {see  also  court  system;  law; 

power  to  arrest),  213-14,  302 
jute  production,  158,  165 

Kambuja,  xiv,  3,  10,  11-12,  243 

KAMPEXIM.  See  Kampuchean  Ex- 
port and  Import  Corporation 
(KAMPEXIM) 

Kampong  Cham  (Kompong  Cham) 
province,  xiv,  40,  42,  49,  56,  64,  81, 
99,  100,  104,  108,  134,  148,  164,  166 

Kampong  Chhnang  (Kompong  Chnang) 
province,  xiv,  42,  46,  99,  105 

Kampong  Saom  Bay,  79 

Kampong  Saom  (Sihanoukville),  41,  42, 
49,  68,  79,  141,  149,  254;  as  entrepot, 
254-55;  as  major  seaport,  141,  181 

Kampong  Spoe  (Kompong  Speu) 
province,  xiv,  42,  135 

Kampong  Thum  (Kompong  Thorn) 
province,  xiv,  33,  38,  42,  49,  99,  100, 

104,  105,  143,  166 

Kampot  province,  42,  79,  88,  99,  100, 

105,  106,  143,  166 
Kampuchea,  3,  22 
Kampuchea  Krom,  262 
Kampuchean  Civil  Aviation  Company 

(AKASCHOR),  182 

Kampuchean  Export  and  Import  Corpo- 
ration (KAMPEXIM),  168,  169 

Kampuchean  Federation  of  Trade  Unions 
(KFTU),  xxi,  221 

Kampuchean  (Khmer)  Communist 
Party:  KCP  {see  also  Angkar  (Angkar 
Loeu)),  41,  42,  43-44,  45,  46-47,  49, 
52,  57,  62,  63,  154,  215,  317-18;  be- 
comes Party  of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
(PDK),  269;  conflicting  factions  in, 
63-65;  Heng  Samrin  faction  of,  217; 
Pol  Pot  (pro-Chinese)  faction  of,  65, 
217;  pro-Soviet/pro- Vietnamese  fac- 
tion, 217;  role  in  coalition  government 
(CGDK)  of,  204;  role  in  Democratic 
Kampuchea  of,  61 ;  role  in  PDFGNUK 
popular  front  of,  194 

Kampuchean  (Khmer)  National  United 
Front  for  National  Salvation: 
KNUFNS,  69,  156,  189,  208,  210, 


220-21,  319;  anti-Khmer  Rouge  polit- 
ical action,  263-64 

Kampuchean  (Khmer)  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Armed  Forces:  KPRAF,  319; 
composition  of,  283,  284;  doctrine  of, 
285;  importance  of  provincial  forces  of, 
287-90;  military  assistance  to,  287;  op- 
position to,  242;  organization  of, 
280-81,  286-91;  responsibilities  of, 
284-85;  Vietnam  occupying  forces  in 
Cambodia  of,  267,  276-95 

Kampuchean  (Khmer)  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Party  (KPRP),  xxi,  5,  35,  36, 
37,  40,  62-63,  189,  210,  215,  318,  319; 
control  of  armed  forces  by,  281-83,  eco- 
nomic structure  under,  156-58;  evolu- 
tion, structure  and  activities  of,  217-20; 
Fifth  Party  Congress  of,  141,  158, 
218-20;  Fourth  Party  Congress  of, 
156-57,  217-18;  Marxist-Leninist 
foundation  for,  209;  Third  Party  Con- 
gress of,  217 

Kampuchean  (Khmer)  United  Front  for 
National  Construction  and  Defense: 
KUFNCD,  xxi,  119-21,  210-11,  221, 
289,  319,  320 

Kampuchean  People's  Representative 
Assembly  (KPRA),  60-61,  62 

Kampuchean  People's  Revolutionary 
Council  (KPRC),  191,  208,  210 

Kampuchean  People's  Revolutionary 
Youth  Union  (KPRYU),  xxi,  221 

Kampuchean  Radio  and  Television  Com- 
mission, 215 

Kampuchean  Revolutionary  Women's 
Association  (KRWA),  xxi,  221 

Kampuchean  Revolutionary  Youth  As- 
sociation (KRYA),  xxi,  221 

Kampuchean  Young  Pioneers  Organiza- 
tion (KYPO),  221 

Kampuchea-USSR  Friendship  Technical 
Institute,  128 

kanak  or  kena  (committee),  61 

Kandal  province,  64,  108 

Kang  Keng  airport,  xix 

Kaoh  Kong  province,  xiv,  85,  88,  103, 
106 

kathen,  120 

Katuic  language  (Mon-Khmer),  111 
KCP.  See  Kampuchean  Communist  Party 
(KCP) 

Kena  Mocchhim  (Committee  Machine), 
47 


349 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Keo  Meas,  41 

KFTU.  See  Kampuchean  Federation  of 

Trade  Unions  (KFTU) 
Khao-I-Dang,  86 

Khasi  language  (Mon-Khmer),  111 

khet  (provinces),  61 

Khieu  Ponnary,  39,  53 

Khieu  Samphan,  4,  5,  29,  30,  37,  38-40, 
43-44,  49,  51,  52,  57,  60,  151,  154, 
198,  199;  as  leader  of  anti-KCP  coali- 
tion (PDFGNUK),  189;  as  leader  of 
Khmer  Rouge,  200,  205;  replaces  Pol 
Pot,  194;  role  in  coalition  government, 
201,  203;  role  in  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea of,  62;  role  in  National  Army 
of  Democratic  Kampuchea  (NADK)  of, 
269,  271 

Khieu  Thirith,  39,  52,  55,  57,  59,  205 

Khmer  Bleu,  254,  318 

Khmer  civilization,  3,  9 

Khmer  Empire,  242-43 

Khmer  Independence  Party,  29 

Khmer  insurgents,  86 

Khmer  Issarak,  xxviii,  22-23,  25,  26,  36, 
59,  63,  65,  215,  246-47,  248,  249,  318 
(see  also  Khmer  Serei);  combines  with 
Viet  Minh,  250 

Khmer  Krok,  25 

Khmer  Krom,  252,  318 

Khmer  Krom  people,  21,  36,  87 

Khmer  language,  xvi,  54,  56,  98-99, 
110-12;  use  of  Sanskrit  and  Pali  roots 
in,  111,  115 

Khmer  Loeu  people,  41,  42,  57,  76,  83, 
85,  87,  254,  318,  259;  groups  compos- 
ing, 104;  religion  of,  124-25;  society  of, 
101,  103-4 

Khmer  National  Armed  Forces:  FANK, 
317;  Chenla  I  and  II  offensives  of,  258, 
259;  defeat  of,  260-61;  government 
troops,  44-45,  48,  256-58,  260,  317; 
U.S.  military  assistance  to,  261 

Khmer  nationalism,  4 

Khmer  people,  3,  6,  9,  12,  13,  14,  15,  19, 
20,  21,  35,  49,  83,  85,  87-88,  100; 
family  and  social  structure  of,  88-99; 
relations  with  Chinese  in  Cambodia, 
108;  religion  of,  112-13 

Khmer  People's  National  Liberation 
Armed  Forces:  KPNLAF,  xxii,  xxxvi, 
194-95,  206,  266,  319;  formation  and 
role  of,  xxxiv,  272-75 

Khmer  People's   National  Liberation 


Front:  KPNLF,  xx,  317,  319;  Cambo- 
dian support  for,  206;  noncommunist 
resistance  by,  xxxiv,  194,  266;  refugee 
camp  management  by,  86-87;  role  in 
coalition  government  of,  198-203 

Khmer  Republic  (see  also  Lon  Nol),  25, 
43,  46,  47,  50,  100,  108;  end  of,  xxxi, 
260-61;  establishment  of  (1970),  xxx, 
5,  318;  factors  weakening  government 
of,  xxx-xxxi;  massacres  of  Vietnamese 
in  Cambodia  by,  xxx 

Khmer  Rouge  (see  also  Angkar  Loeu; 
Cambodian  People's  National  Lib- 
eration Armed  Forces:  CPNLAF; 
National  Army  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea: NADK;  revolutionaries, 
Eastern  Zone;  Revolutionary  Army  of 
Kampuchea:  RAK),  3,  4,  5,  6,  10,  12, 
19,  26,  27,  35,  36,  37,  43,  45,  318; 
armed  forces:  NADK,  194,  269;  atroci- 
ties of,  xxxii,  47-48,  50-51,  55-57,  60, 
68,  69,  75,  100;  attacks  Thai  border  vil- 
lages, 68;  domination  of  CPNLAF  by, 
260;  forced  evacuation  of  Phnom  Penh 
by,  xxxii,  49-50,  152;  founding  and  de- 
velopment of,  254-55;  goal  for  self- 
sufficient  economy  of,  xxxi-xxxii, 
58-59;  insurgency  of,  xxxi;  killings  by, 
51,  69,  75;  leaders  of,  205;  opposition 
to  PRK  regime  by,  194;  Pol  Pot  as 
leader  of,  190;  recognition  internation- 
ally, 191;  refugee  camp  management 
by,  86-87;  replacement  by  CGDK  of, 
204;  role  on  coalition  government  by, 
198-203;  in  Samlot  revolt,  254 

Khmer  Rouge  regime,  5-6,  85-86,  90, 
91,  96,  99,  100,  108,  118-19,  132;  after 
rout  by  North  Vietnam,  187;  economic 
policy  of,  58-59,  151-55;  economic  self- 
reliance  of,  145-46;  education  under, 
128;  social  structure  under,  xiii,  51-55 

Khmer  Rumdo  (pro- Sihanouk),  63,  259, 
318 

Khmer  Serei,  23,  33,  43,  251-52,  253, 

318-19 
Khmer  state,  xxv-xxvii 
Khmer  students,  38 
Khmer  Students'  Association  (KSA),  39 
Khmer  Students'  Union,  39 
Khmer  Viet  Minh,  254,  259,  319 
khmoc  (ghosts),  121 

Khmuic  language  (Mon-Khmer),  111 
khum  (subdistricts),  61 


350 


Index 


Kiernan,  Ben,  63,  65,  106,  124,  218 

killings.  See  atrocities;  executions 

Kingdoms,  centralized,  3 

kinship,  88-89 

Kirk,  Donald,  47 

Kissinger,  Henry,  46 

kloeu  relationship,  89 

KNUFNS.  See  Kampuchean  (Khmer) 
National  United  Front  for  National  Sal- 
vation (KNUFNS) 

Ko  Chang,  245 

Kola  group  (Burmese),  110 

Kong  Sileah,  195,  320 

Korat  Plateau,  10,  79 

Korea,  North,  222 

Korea,  South.  See  Republic  of  Korea 
(South  Korea) 

KPNLAF.  See  Khmer  People's  National 
Liberation  Armed  Forces  (KPNLAF) 

KPNLF.  See  Khmer  People's  National 
Liberation  Front  (KPNLF) 

KPRA.  See  Kampuchean  People's  Repre- 
sentative Assembly  (KPRA) 

KPRAF.  See  Kampuchean  (Khmer)  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Armed  Forces 
(KPRAF) 

KPRC.  See  Kampuchean  People's  Rev- 
olutionary Council  (KPRC) 

KPRP.  See  Kampuchean  (Khmer)  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Party  (KPRP); 
Kampuchean  People's  Revolutionary 
Council:  KPRC 

Kracheh  (Kratie)  province,  xiv,  45, 
80-81,  101,  104,  143 

Kracheh  Special  Region  Number  505,  61 

krama,  92 

krom  (groups),  61,  75 

km  (shaman),  121,  134 

KRWA.  See  Kampuchean  Revolutionary 

Women's  Association  (KRWA) 
KSA.  See  Khmer  Students'  Association 

(KSA) 
Kuala  Lumpur,  201 
KUFNCD.  See  Kampuchean  (Khmer) 

United  Front  for  National  Construction 

and  Defense:  KUFNCD 
Kuy  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  104 

labor  force  (see  also  forced  labor),  144-45 
Land  Chenla  kingdom,  xxv,  9 
land  ownership.  See  ownership;  property 
language  lexicons,  99 


languages,  xvi,  110-12;  linguistic  groups, 
110;  linguistic  groups  among  Chinese, 
106-7 

Lan  Xang  kingdom,  12 
Lao  Itsala,  36,  317 

Laos,  xxvi,  3,  6,  9,  18,  30,  33,  16;  bor- 
der with  Cambodia  of,  76,  81,  279; 
Cambodian  minority  groups  in,  104; 
representation  at  Geneva  Conference 
by,  27-28;  Vietnamese  forces  in,  277 

law:  due  process:  PRK,  301-2;  enforce- 
ment: PRK,  298 

Le  Due  Anh,  297 

Le  dynasty,  14 

legal  code,  India,  9 

legislature,  PRK,  60-61 

leprosarium,  134 

Liberal  Party,  xxviii,  23-24 

light  infantry  battallion,  244,  246,  247 

linguistic  groups.  See  languages 

livestock  production,  165 

Long  Boret,  48 

Long  Chhim,  120 

Long  Reth.  See  Nuon  Chea 

Lon  Nol,  5,  25,  26,  30,  32,  38,  42,  45, 
46-48,  116;  as  commander  of  Cambo- 
dian armed  forces,  5;  coup  against 
Sihanouk  by,  xxx,  43-44;  economic 
policy  of  regime  of,  1 50-5 1 ;  emergence 
of,  249,  255;  establishes  Khmer  Repub- 
lic, 318;  fall  of  regime  of,  257;  regime 
of,  35,  145,  252,  256 

Lon  Nol  Line,  258,  260 

Lon  Non,  48 

Lovek,  3,  13,  14 

lower  class,  97-98 

Luang  Prabang,  16 

Lutheran  World  Service,  174 

Lycee  Kambuboth,  40 

lycees,  Buddhist,  130-31 

Lycee  Sisowath,  20,  38 

MAAG.  See  United  States  Military  As- 
sistance Advisory  Group  (MAAG) 

MACV.  See  United  States  Military  As- 
sistance Command- Vietnam  (MACV) 

Mahayana  Buddhism,  xxv,  11,  12,  110, 
114-15,  122 

Malay  Peninsula,  xxvi,  9,  10,  20 

Malay  people:  language  of,  112;  religion 
of,  122 

Malaysia,  201,  229 


351 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


male  role,  89,  94-95,  98-99,  101,  114, 
133 

malnutrition,  155 

manganese  ore,  143 

Manu  laws,  9 

Mao  Zedong,  62,  65 

Marcos,  Ferdinand,  30 

marriage,  95-96;  among  Cham,  101 

martial  law:  1953,  25 

Martin,  Marie  A.,  92,  119-20,  128-29 

Marx,  Karl,  38 

Marxism-Leninism,  39,  62,  75,  136,  191 
Mayaguez  incident,  68,  263 
meak  bochea,  120 
meba  (spirits),  121 
media,  214-15 

medical  supplies  and  personnel,  132-33 
Mekong  Delta,  xxxii,  3,  9,  13,  14,  69,  76, 
79 

Mekong  River,  3,  7,  13,  16,  48,  76, 
80-81,  99,  110,  142-43,  178,  181 

Mekong  River  valley,  6,  79 

Memot,  263 

Menu  series,  35,  255 

middle  class,  98 

migration,  83,  85,  155 

military  assistance,  4,  5,  151,  241,  250; 
from  ASEAN  and  China  to  Sihanouk- 
led  (ANS)  forces,  275;  from  China,  42, 
253,  271-72,  278-79;  from  France, 
253;  from  North  Vietnam  to  Khmer 
Rouge,  261;  of  North  Vietnam  to 
RAK/CPNLAF,  277;  from  Soviet 
Union,  42,  253,  291;  from  United 
States,  32,  33 

Military  Assistance  Advisory  Group 
(MAAG):  United  States,  241,  250 

military  awards  and  decorations: 
KPRAF,  295 

military  class,  97-98 

military  forces:  development  of,  248-49; 
indigenous,  247-48;  of  Khmer  Rouge 
during  Vietnam  occupation  (NADK), 
269-72;  of  KPNLAF  (noncommunist, 
anti- Vietnam),  272-75;  of  noncom- 
munist resistance  (ANS/FUNCIN- 
PEC),  275-76;  of  Vietnam  and 
KNUFNS  in  Cambodia,  263-67;  of 
Vietnam  occupation  (KPRAF),  267-68 

military  fronts,  Vietnam  in  Cambodia, 
297 

military  logistics  school,  293 
military  medical  school,  292 


military  pay:  KPRAF,  293 

military  prisons,  293-94 

military  regions:  under  KPRAF  rule, 
286;  of  Vietnam  in  Cambodia,  297 

military  schools,  292-93 

military  service:  PRK  {see  also  conscrip- 
tion; enlistment),  291-95 

military  schools  and  training  centers,  292, 
293 

military  tribunals,  xxi,  293 
military  uniforms  and  insignia:  KPRAF, 
294-95 

mineral  resources,  xviii,  143 
Ming  dynasty  (China),  13 
Minh  Mang  (emperor),  16 
Ministry  of  Agriculture,  141,  145 
Ministry  of  Communications,  Transport, 

and  Posts,  181,  182 
Ministry  of  Education,  125 
Ministry  of  Finance,  177 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs:  Angkar,  55 
Ministry  of  Industry:  Angkar,  55 
Ministry  of  Interior,  298,  299,  300,  302; 

Prison  Directorate  of,  303,  304 
Ministry  of  Justice,  xxi,  300,  302 
Ministry  of  Local  and  Foreign  Trade,  168 
Ministry  of  National  Defense:  PRK,  xxii, 

280,  281,  295 
Ministry  of  Religion,  130 
minorities,  xvi,    104-5;  treatment  in 

Democratic  Kampuchea  of,  55,  75; 

under  Vietnamese,  76 
Mit  Deuch,  66 

mneang  phteah  (house  guardians),  121 
Mnong  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  104-5 
Mohanikay  monastic  group,  116,  119 
Mondol  Kiri  (Mondolkiri)  province,  xiv, 

42,  85,  101,  103,  104 
monetary  policy,  150 
monetization,  177 

Monic  language  (Mon- Khmer),  111 
Monireth  (prince),  21,  247 
Monivong  (king),  4,  18,  20-21,  39 
Mon-Khmer  language,  104,  110 
Mon-Khmer  languages:  divisions  within, 

110-111 
Mon-Khmer  people,  6,  101 
Mon  kingdoms,  10,  12 
monks,  Buddhist,  116-19 
monsoons,  xvi,   10,  76,  79-81,  142, 

163-64 

Monivong  (king  of  Cambodia),  18,  20 
mortality  rates,  xvii,  83,  132 


352 


Index 


Mouhot,  Henri,  16 

MOULINAKA.  See  Movement  for  the 
National  Liberation  of  Kampuchea 
(MOULINAKA) 

Moung  Roessei,  49 

Mount  Meru,  11 

Movement  for  the  National  Liberation  of 
Kampuchea  (MOULINAKA),  195, 
275,  317,  320 
mrenh  kongveal  (animal  guardians),  121 
Muslims  {see  also  Sunni  Muslims);  perse- 
cution of,  55,  122 


NADK.  See  National  Army  of  Democratic 

Kampuchea  (NADK) 
Nagaravatta,  21,  22,  23 
Nam  Viet  kingdom,  10 
National  Army  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea (NADK),  xxi-xxii,  194,  205, 
269,  318,  320;  factions  of  Khmer 
Rouge  in,  269,  271;  infiltration  routes 
of,  272;  insurgent  and  guerrilla  activ- 
ity of,  271;  military  assistance  from 
China  for,  271-72;  succeeds  RAK, 
269;  terror  tactics  of,  271 
National  Assembly,  xx-xxi,  24,  25,  43 
National  Assembly  (PRK),  210-11 
National  Cadres  Conference,  104 
National  Export-Import  Corporation, 
29-30 

National  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  South 
Vietnam  (NFLSVN),  xxx,  34,  320 

National  Institute  of  Legal,  Political,  and 
Economic  Studies,  127 

nationalism,  4,  20-22,  29 

nationalization;  under  Khmer  Rouge, 
151;  under  Sihanouk:  1963,  29-30,  146 

National  Mutual  Help  Association,  136 

National  Route  1,  178 

National  Trade  Commission,  168 

National  United  Front  for  an  Indepen- 
dent, Neutral,  Peaceful,  and  Cooper- 
ative Cambodia  (FUNCINPEC),  xx, 
xxxiv,  195,  275-76,  317  {see  also  Siha- 
nouk National  Army:  ANS);  role  in 
coalition  government  of,  199-203, 
207-8 

National  United  Front  of  Kampuchea 
(FUNK),  xxxi,  43-44,  63,  258-59,  317 
Na  Trao  refugee  camp,  87 
Naval  Zone  Five,  298 


navy:  KPRAF,  291 
neak  ta  (spirits),  121 
Nehru,  Jawaharlal,  30 
Neolithic  culture,  6 
Nepote,  Jacques,  87 
NFLSVN.  See  National  Front  for  the  Lib- 
eration of  South  Vietnam  (NFLSVN) 
Ngo  Dinh  Diem,  33 
Nguyen  Co  Thach,  296 
Nguyen  dynasty,  16,  36 
Nguyen  Van  Thieu,  34 
Nhek  Tioulong,  207 
Nhim  Ros,  64 

Nixon,  Richard  M.,  35,  256 
nobility,  97 

Nokorbal  (civil  police),  298 
Nonaligned  Movement,  xx 
noncommunist  activity:  of  ANS  and 

FUNCINPEC,  275-76;  OF  KPNLAF, 

272-73 

Normal  Advanced  School,  128 
Norodom  Chakrapong  (prince),  276 
Norodom  (king),  xxvii-xxviii,  4,  16,  18, 
243-44 

Norodom  Norindeth  (prince),  23 
Norodom  Ranariddh  (prince),  xxxiv, 

207,  222-23,  276 
Norodom  Sihanouk  (king  of  Cambodia). 

See  Sihanouk  (as  prince);  Sihanouk  (as 

king) 

Norodom  Suramarit  (king),  4,  25,  28 

Northeastern  Zone,  54,  61 

Northern  Zone,  54,  61,  65 

Northwestern  Zone,  54,  61,  65 

Nu,  U,  30 

nuns,  Buddhist,  117 

Nuon  Chea  (Long  Reth),  40,  41,  65,  205 


occupation  force  withdrawals.  See  troop 

withdrawals 
Oc  Eo,  xxv,  7 

Odongk  (Udong),  14,  15,  16,  47,  100 
Office  of  Public  Prosecutor,  xxi 
officer  corps:  in  KPRAF,  283 
Osborne,  Milton  E.,  26 
O  Smach,  79 

Otdar  Meanchey  province,  xiv 
ownership:  collective,  153,  160-61;  of 
land,  89-90,  148,  153-54,  160-61;  pri- 
vate, 160-62;  of  property,  89-90 
Oxfam,  174 


353 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Pach  Chhoeun,  21,  22 
Pacific  Ocean,  6 
Pailin,  143 

Palaguic  language  (Mon-Khmer),  111 

Panaritis,  Andrea,  134,  135 

Pang  Khat,  115 

Paris,  38-39,  40,  62,  151 

Paris  International  Conference  on  Cam- 
bodia: 1989,  xxxv-xxxvi 

Paris  Peace  Accords,  46 

Parrot's  Beak  engagement,  xxxii,  263 

Party  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  (PDK), 
204,  320,  269 

Patriotic  and  Democratic  Front  of  the 
Great  National  Union  of  Kampuchea 
(PDFGNUK),  194,  195-96,  204,  205, 
320 

PAVN.  See  People's  Army  of  Vietnam 
(PAVN) 

PDFGNUK.  Patriotic  and  Democratic 
Front  of  the  Great  National  Union  of 
Kampuchea  (PDFGNUK) 

PDK.  See  Party  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea (PDK) 

Pearic  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  104-5;  lan- 
guage of,  110-11 

peasant  class,  97 

penal  system,  303-4 

Pen  Sovan,  208-9,  217-18 

Penn  Nouth,  43 

People's  Army  of  Vietnam:  PAVN,  286, 
320 

People's  National  Bank  of  Kampuchea, 
176-77 

People's  Republic  of  Kampuchea 
(PRK),  xiii,  xv,  xx,  6,  10,  12,  35,  39, 
40-41,  50,  75,  90,  100,  146,  208, 
319,  320;  centralization  of  power  of, 
xxxiii;  coalition  government  (CGDK) 
resistance  to,  268;  competes  with 
CGDK  for  power,  222;  economic  pol- 
icy of,  58-59;  education  under  regime 
of,  128;  establishment  of  (1979), 
155-56,  191;  increasing  influence  of, 
136;  international  recognition  of, 
191-93;  question  of  United  Nations 
representation,  192-93;  relations  with 
and  recognition  by  other  countries  of, 
224;  religion  under  regime  of,  119; 
role  of  Vietnam's  military  (KPRAF) 
in,  276-95 

people's  revolutionary  committees 
(PRK),  214 


People's  Revolutionary  Youth  Union  of 
Kampuchea  (PRYUK),  281-83,  320 

People's  Security  Service  (PRK),  298-99, 
302,  303,  304 

People's  Supreme  Court,  xxi,  213,  300, 
302-3 

Permanent  Military  Coordinating  Com- 
mittee, 268 
petroleum,  143-44 
Pham  Van  Dong,  31 
pharmaceuticals,  134 
phchun  ben,  120 
Philippines,  13,  30 

Phnom  Penh,  4,  6,  13,  19,  20,  22,  25,  26, 
32,  38-40,  41,  45,  54,  60,  79,  81,  83, 
85,  100,  107,  108,  149,  155;  evacua- 
tion of,  152;  fall  to  Khmer  Rouge 
CPNLAF  of,  xxxi,  47-49,  260-61;  fall 
to  Vietnamese  of,  xxxii-xxxiii,  69,  190, 
266;  hospital  resources  of,  133-34;  as 
river  port,  181 

Phnom  Penh  Domestic  News  Service, 
172 

Phumi  Banam,  7 
phumphaek,  47 
phum  (villages),  47,  61 
Phu  Quoc  island,  66,  263 
Pochentong  airport,  xix,  181 
Po  Dharma,  99,  100,  122 
Poland,  172-73 

police  (see  also  power  to  arrest);  PRK, 
298-91 

political  activity,  xx-xxi 

political  crimes.  See  criminal  offenses 

political  institutions:  adoption  of  Indian,  3 

political  parties:  formation  of,  xxviii,  23 

Political  School,  292 

Pol  Pot,  5,  26,  37,  38-41,  43,  45,  50-54, 
57,  68,  154;  emergence  of,  215,  231, 
254;  insurgency  by  forces  of,  69-70;  in 
Kampuchean  Communist  Party 
(KCP),  59-60,  65,  318;  opposition  by 
KNUFNS,  69;  opposition  to  Sihanouk 
by,  xxix;  purge  by  Khmer  Rouge  re- 
gime and,  6,  47-48,  50-51;  replaced  as 
leader  of  Khmer  Rouge,  194;  role  in 
Khmer  Rouge  NADK  of,  269,  271; 
role  in  PDK  and  Khmer  Rouge  of, 
204-5;  trial  in  absentia  of,  193 

Pol  Pot  regime,  142;  cruelty  of,  187; 
defeat  by  Vietnam  of,  266;  fall  of, 
xxxii-xxxiii,  155 

Ponchaud,  Francois,  38,  48-50,  51 


354 


Index 


Popular  Socialist  Community.  See 
Sangkum 

population,  xvi,  83,  144-45;  density  of, 
83,  85,  144;  of  Khmer  Loeu  people, 
101;  of  Phnom  Penh,  141;  rural,  87-88, 
160;  urban,  85,  149 
population  movement,  forced,  85 
port  cities:  Kampong  Cham,  263,  265; 

Kampong  Saom,  141,  254;  Kampot,  265 
ports,  xix,  181;  as  entrepots,  xxix-xxx 
Portugese  explorers,  3 
Poulo  Wai  island,  68 
Pourtier,  Roland,  88 
Pouthisat  (Pursat)  province,  xiv,  42,  99, 

100,  105,  275 
power  to  arrest,  300-302 
Pracheachon  (Citizens')  Party,  29,  37,  63 
Prachin  Buri  province  (Thailand),  86-87 
Preah  Ket  Mealea  Hospital,  134,  136 
Preah  Monivong  military  hospital,  134 
Preah  Sihanouk  Raj  Buddhist  University, 
130-31 

Preah  Suramarit  Buddhist  Lycee,  130 
Preah  Vihear,  104 
pret  (demons),  121 
Prey  Nokor,  14 

Prey  Veng  province,  7,  64,  108 

prisons  {see  also  military  prisons),  303-4 

private  sector  economy,  xvii;  enterprise 
in,  141,.  158,  167-68;  under  KPRP 
government,  156 

PRK.  See  People's  Republic  of  Kam- 
puchea (PRK) 

Project  K-5,  145,  267,  291 

propaganda  role:  of  Khmer  Rouge, 
103-4;  of  KPRAF,  284,  289-90 

property  (see  also  ownership),  89-90 

protectorate:  of  France,  4 

Protestants,  124 

provinces  (see  also  sister  provinces); 
replacement  in  Democratic  Kampuchea 
of,  61 

provincial  divisions:  PRK,  xiv 
psychological  warfare  tactics:  of  KPRAF, 

289-90 
public  health,  132-35 
purges  (see  also  atrocities;  executions; 

Khmer  Rouge),  6,  59-60,  65-66 
Pyongyang,  195,  198 


Rade  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  101,  104, 
105,  112,  125 


Radio  Hanoi,  69 

Radio  Phnom  Penh,  55,  69 

radio  sets,  182 

radio  station,  xix,  215 

radio  station,  Khmer  Rouge,  201 

radio  telephone  link,  xix 

railroads,  xix,  159,  178 

rainfall,  80 

RA.K.  See  Revolutionary  Army  of  Kam- 
puchea (RAK) 

Ream  airport,  xix,  181 

refugee  camps:  Cambodian  insurgents  in, 
267;  in  Thailand,  xx,  86-87,  124,  278; 
UNBRO  aid  to  people  in,  176 

refugees  (see  also  emigration;  migration); 
from  Cambodia,  85-87,  120,  266;  so- 
cial problems  of,  52-54 

regional  divisions.  See  administrative  di- 
visions 

relief  aid.  See  economic  assistance;  food 
aid;  humanitarian  assistance 

religion,  xvi,  55,  75,  76,  112-25 

religious  leader  class,  97 

repression:  of  Cham  people,  100;  of 
Chinese,  106,  108;  of  religion,  120;  of 
teachers  and  educated  people,  128;  of 
wats,  136 

Republic  of  Korea  (South  Korea),  24 

resettlement  policy,  xxix,  103 

resistance  groups  (see  also  guerrilla  activ- 
ity; insurgent  forces);  Khmer  refugee 
camps,  86;  noncommunist,  194-95, 
199,  201,  207,  224-26,  317;  pro- 
Sihanouk,  xxxi,  259 

resources.  See  hydroelectric  power;  min- 
eral resources 

revenues,  government,  176 

revolutionaries,  Eastern  Zone,  64 

Revolutionary  Army  of  Kampuchea 
(RAK)  (see  also  Cambodian  People's 
National  Liberation  Armed  Forces 
(CPNLAF);  National  Army  of 
Democratic  Kampuchea  (NADK)),  44, 
61,  63-64,  103,  254-55,  317,  320;  com- 
munists establish,  42;  conflict  with 
Vietnamese  forces  of,  262-65;  develop- 
ment of,  258,  261;  organization  after 
1975  conquest,  261-62 

revolutionary  committees,  214 

rice:  competition  between  state  and  pri- 
vate production  for,  167-68;  cultivation 
of,  xvii,  3,  6,  7,  10,  20,  145,  148,  150, 
155,  159-64;  export  of,  149;  production 


355 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


of,  141,  148,  149-50,  152-53,  155,  159, 

162-64 
riel,  xix,  130,  146,  176-77 
rifle  battalions,  249;  First  and  Second 

Cambodian  Rifle  Battiions,  248;  Third 

Cambodian  Rifle  Battalion,  249 
rivers,  80-81,  142-43 
roads,  xix,  159,  178 
Ros  Samay,  208 

Rotanokiri  (Ratanakiri)  province,  xiv,  41, 
42,  85,  101,  103,  104,  110,  318 

Royal  Faculty  of  Medicine  of  Cambodia, 
133 

Royal  Government  of  National  Union  of 
Kampuchea  (GRUNK),  43-44,  60, 
258,  317 

Royal  Khmer  Armed  Forces  (FARK)  (see 
also  Khmer  National  Armed  Forces 
(FANK)),  32,  250-51,  252,  253-55, 
261,  317 

Royal  Library,  131 

Royal  Thai  Army:  threat  to  Vietnam- 
backed  government  by,  278 
royalty,  97 

rubber:  cultivation  and  production  of, 
xvii,  19-20,  110,  158,  164-65,  174;  ex- 
port of,  149-50,  165 

ruble,  171 

rup  arak  (medium),  121 

sahakor  (cooperatives),  61 
Sailendra  dynasty,  9 
Sai  Vuong,  14 

Sak  Sutsakhan,  206-7;  commander  of 

KPNLAF,  274 
Sala  Som  Niat,  66 

Saloth  Sar,  5,  35;  role  in  Democratic 
Kampuchea  of,  62;  (see  also  Pol  Pot) 
Samlot,  42 
Samlot  region,  61 

Samlot  revolt,  xxix,  5,  42,  146,  254 
sampot,  92 

Samre  subgroup  (Pearic),  105 

samsara,  113 

Sam  Sary,  28,  33 

sangha,  55,  113,  114,  117,  118 

Sangkum  (Popular  Socialist  Community), 

xxviii,  4,  28-30,  37 
sanitation,  132 
Sanskrit  language,  9,  111 
Saoch  subgroup  (Pearic),  105 
sarong,  92 


Sar  Sarsdam,  47 

Sattha  (Khmer  king),  13 

Saukham  Khoy,  48 

school,  officer-candidate,  247 

School  of  Fine  Arts,  128 

school  of  medicine,  133 

school  of  nursing,  133 

schools,  Buddhist,  130-31 

schools,  Chinese,  131 

schools,  military.  See  military  schools 

schools,  private,  131 

schools,  public,  xvii,  125-30 

schools,  Vietnamese,  131 

SEATO.  See  Southeast  Asia  Treaty  Or- 
ganization (SEATO) 

Second  Indochina  War,  5,  30,  149,  320 

service  sector,  xviii,  148 

Shawcross,  William,  27,  35,  40,  46 

shortages  in  economy,  160 

Siddhartha  Gautama.  See  Gautama 
Buddha 

Siemreab  airport,  xixl,  181 

Siemreab-Otdar  Meanchey  province, 
105,  268 

Siemreab  (Siemreap)  province,  10,  15, 
16,  19,  20,  24,  25-26,  33,  46,  47,  49, 
105 

Siemreab  Special  Region  Number  106,  61 
Sieu  Heng,  37-38 

Sihanouk  (as  king),  4,  21,  22-23,  24,  25, 
116,  247;  crusade  for  independence  of 
Cambodia,  24-26;  strategy  to  gain  in- 
dependence of,  25-26 

Sihanouk  (as  prince),  41-43,  44,  47,  52, 
97,  116,  249-50,  317;  after  Khmer 
Rouge  victory,  57,  60;  Beijing  govern- 
ment in  exile,  xxx-xxxi;  commander  of 
FARK,  250-51,  252,  254,  255;  creates 
GRUNK  and  FUNK,  258-59,  317;  de- 
posed (1970),  5,  252,  255;  economic 
policy  of,  146-49;  foreign  policy  of, 
xxx,  30-35,  145-46;  government  of, 
xxviii-xxix,  4,  5,  26-27,  29-30,  37,  38; 
as  leader  of  anti-KPRP  coalition,  189; 
as  leader  of  RAK,  258;  link  with 
Khmer  Rouge  of,  5 ;  nonalignment  and 
neutrality  policy  of,  4,  26,  30-33, 
37-38,  41-42,  146;  position  on  Khmer 
Rouge,  196;  position  on  Vietnam 
presence  in  Cambodia,  192;  recom- 
mendations for  Cambodian  govern- 
ment by,  198-200;  role  in  ANS/ 
FUNCINPEC   of,   xxxiv,  207-8, 


356 


Index 


275-76;  role  in  coalition  government 

(CGDK)  of,  201,  203,  232,  233-36, 

268;  role  in  KPNLF  of,  194;  role  in 

noncommunist  resistance  of,  194-95; 

suspicion  of  United  States  by,  32-33, 

37-38,  146,  252 
Sihanouk  National  Army  (ANS),  xxii, 

xxxiv,  195,  207-8,  266,  275-76,  317; 

organization  and  activity  of,  275-76; 

refugee  camp  management  by,  86 
Sihanoukville.    See   Kampong  Saom 

(Sihanoukville) 
Singapore,  173,  200,  201 
Sino-Khmer  group,  106,  108 
Sirik  Matak,  43,  48 
Sisaket  province  (Thailand),  87 
Sisowath  (king),  18,  244 
Sisowath  Yuthevong  (prince),  23 
sister  provinces:  in  trade  with  Vietnam, 

170-71 

Site  B  refugee  camp  (Green  Hill),  87 
Site  2  refugee  camp,  87,  206 
Site  8  refugee  camp,  87 
slaves,  11 
Snuol,  263 

social  stratification,  97-99 
Socialist  Republic  of  Vietnam,  15 
social  mobility,  99 

social  structure:  under  Khmer  Rouge, 
51-55,  75 

society,  Angkorian,  11 

Soeharto,  30 

solidarity  groups,  160-62 

SONEXIM.  See  export-import  agency 
(SONEXIM) 

Son  Ngoc  Minh,  36,  37 

Son  Ngoc  Thanh,  21,  22,  23,  25,  27,  29, 
33;  leader  of  Khmer  Issarak,  48,  245, 
249-50,  318;  as  leader  of  Khmer  Serai, 
251,  318;  nationalist,  22,  23,  25,  27,  36 

Sonn  Mann  Mental  Hospital,  134 

Son  Sann,  30;  as  leader  of  anti-KPRP 
coalition,  189;  as  leader  of  KPNLF/ 
KPNLAF,  xxxiv,  194,  198,  199,  206-7, 
266,  272-73;  position  on  Khmer  Rouge 
of,  196,  200-01,  and  coalition  govern- 
ment, 201,  203,  236 

Son  Sen,  38,  40-41,  52,  55;  as  leader  of 
Khmer  Rouge  and  RAK/NADK,  205, 
261,  269 

So  Phim,  64,  66,  69 

Sosthene  Fernandez,  48 

South  China  Sea,  13,  76,  81,  144 


Southeast  Asian  Treaty  Organization 

(SEATO),  30,  250 
Southwestern  Zone,  54,  61,  65 
Soviet  citizens  in  Cambodia,  110 
Soviet-Khmer  Friendship  Hospital,  134, 

135 

Soviet  Union,  27,  32,  42,  142,  149,  151; 
economic  assistance  to  KPRP  govern- 
ment by,  173-75,  189;  influence  in 
Cambodia  of,  209,  215;  as  major  trad- 
ing partner,  169,  171-72;  military  as- 
sistance to  Vietnam  in  Cambodia  by, 
xxxiv-xxxv,  287;  position  on  PRK  and 
Khmer  Rouge  of,  192;  recognition  of 
PRK  by,  191 ;  relations  with  China  of, 
209;  training  assistance  to  KPRAF  by, 
291,  292 

Spanish:  in  Cambodia,  3,  13-14 

Special  Military  Administrative  Zone, 
297-98 

spirit  world,  94,  121-22 

Sri  Lanka,  12 

srok  (districts),  61 

Stalinism,  39 

starvation,  155 

state  enterprises,  150 

State  of  Cambodia,  xiv,  xxxv-xxxvi 

Steinberg,  DonaldJ.,  108,  117,  124,  135 

Stieng  group  (Khmer  Loeu),  104-5 

Stoeng  Treng  province,  xiv,  101,  103, 
104,  143 

Sumatra,  9 

Sunni  Muslims,  122 

Suoi  subgroup  (Pearic),  105 

Suryavarman  II,  xxvi,  10 

Svay  Rieng  province,  64 

Swank,  Emory  C,  46 

sweet  potatoes,  164 

Szymusiak,  Molyda,  64,  66 

Takev  province,  xiv,  79,  99,  100 
Ta  Khmau,  134,  166 
Ta  Luen  refugee  camp,  87 
Ta  Mok,  65,  66;  role  in  NADK  of,  269, 
271 

Tampuon  subgroup  (Brao),  104 
Taoism,  122 

Ta  Phraya  (Thailand),  87 
taxation,  177 
Teap  Ben,  207 
Technical  School,  292 
telecommunications,  xix,  182 


357 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


Television  Kampuchea  (TVK),  215 
television  service,  xix,  182,  215 
Teochiu  linguistic  group,  106-7 
Tep  Vong,  120 

terror  tactics  {see  also  atrocities),  23;  of 

NADK,  271;  by  Viet  Cong,  47 
Tet  offensive,  34 

Thailand,  3,  6,  10,  12,  14,  15,  25;  annex- 
ation and  return  of  Cambodian  terri- 
tory by,  xxvii-xxviii,  15,  16,  18-19, 
245;  assumes  command  of  insurgent 
anti- Vietnamese  force,  274;  border  with 
Cambodia  of,  xxxvi,  76,  79,  81,  86-87, 
145,  191;  Cambodian  insurgents  in, 
267;  Cambodian  minority  groups  in, 
104-5;  Cambodians  in,  86;  effect  of 
Vietnamese  troops  at  border  of, 
266-67;  position  on  Cambodian 
governmental  crisis  of,  226-27;  Project 
K-5  at  border  with  Cambodia,  267; 
recognition  of  Cambodia  by,  24;  rela- 
tions with  Cambodia  of:  1954-1969, 
30-35;  relations  with  CGDK  of, 
222-23;  relations  with  Japan  of,  245; 
security  concerns  of,  191;  trade  with, 
173 

Thai  people,  10-14,  243;  persecution  by 
Khmer  Rouge  of,  56;  refugees  from 
Mongols  of,  xxvi 

Theravada  Buddhism,  xvi,  xxvi,  12,  29, 
55,  112-14 

Thieu  Tri  (emperor),  16 

Thion,  Serge,  57 

thmup  (witch),  121 

thoa  relationship,  89 

Tho  Chu  island,  66,  68 

Thomas,  David,  110 

Thommayut  monastic  group,  116,  119 

timber:  production  of,  158 

Toal  Chay,  208 

Tokyo,  21,  22 

Tonkin,  18,  36 

Tonle  Sab  River,  7,  13,  81,  143  ,  178 
Tonle   Sap   Basin-Mekong  Lowlands 

region,  76,  79-80,  87 
Tonle  Sap  (Great  Lake),  xvi,  xxv,  3,  7, 

10,  12,  76,  81,  99,  110,  143,  164,  178 
topography,  xvi,  76,  78,  142 
Tou  Samouth,  37-38,  40-41,  217 
trade,  foreign  {see  also  barter  system);  with 

Comecon  countries,  168,  169;  PRK 

government  focus  on,  168-73 
trade,  historical,  7,  13 


trade,  illicit:  with  Thailand  and  Singa- 
pore, 173 

trade  deficit,  169 

trade  policy,  150 

trade  routes,  international,  13 

trading  partners,  xviii,  169-73 

Training  Department:  KRAF  General 
Staff,  293 

transportation  system,  177-82 

Trat  province  (Thailand),  87 

Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Nonaggression 
(1960),  32 

Treaty  of  Peace,  Friendship  and  Cooper- 
ation (1979),  xxi,  170,  191 

tripartite  coalition  {see  also  Coalition 
Government  of  Democratic  Kam- 
puchea (CGDK)) 

tripartite  coalition  (1982),  201-4 

Tripitaka,  114 

Tripitaka  Commission,  131 

troop  withdrawals,  Vietnam,  xxxv,  187, 
295,  296 

Tu  Due  (emperor),  16 

Tung  Kraham,  63 

Tung  Padevat,  62-63 

Tuol  Sleng  detention  center,  64,  66 

typhoons,  80 

United  Front  for  the  Liberation  of  Op- 
pressed Races  (Front  Uni  pour  la 
Liberation  des  Races  Opprimes  (FUL- 
RO)),  103,  106 

United  Issarak  Front,  36 

United  Nations  (UN),  151,  187;  recog- 
nition of  Democratic  Kampuchea 
(CGDK)  government,  190,  203-4,  242, 
317;  Security  Council  deliberation  of 
Cambodian  question  (1979),  191-93 

United  Nations  Border  Relief  Operation 
(UNBRO),  86 

United  Nations  Children's  Fund,  173, 
175 

United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Or- 
ganization (FAO),  162,  173,  175 

United  Nations  General  Assembly;  delib- 
erations on  Cambodia  (1979),  193; 
resolution;  resolution  for  principles  of 
International  Conference,  225;  resolu- 
tion for  withdrawal  of  Vietnamese 
troops,  225,  223 

United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees,  86,  173-74,  175 


358 


Index 


United  Nations  World  Food  Program 
(WFP),  173,  175-76 

United  States,  29,  30;  aid  to  Royal  Thai 
Army  by,  278;  airlifts  during  CPNLAF 
offensive,  260;  airlifts  of  supplies  by,  48; 
bombing  raids  of,  45-46,  255,  263;  eco- 
nomic assistance  by,  149,  151;  economic 
assistance  through  international  organi- 
zations, 173,  175-76;  end  of  diplomat- 
ic relations  with  Cambodia  (1965),  253; 
at  Geneva  Conference,  27-28;  hu- 
manitarian assistance  to  refugees,  241; 
influence  in  Cambodian  armed  forces, 
32;  military  assistance  agreement  of, 
250,  256-57;  military  assistance  agree- 
ment with  France  of,  249;  military  as- 
sistance by,  32,  33,  261;  offensive 
against  North  Vietnamese  in  Cambodia 
by,  xxx,  45;  position  on  Khmer  Rouge 
return  to  power,  xxxv;  position  on  PRK 
of,  191 ;  recognition  of  Cambodia  by,  24; 
relations  with,  4-5,  30-35 

United  States  Board  of  Geographic 
Names  (BGN),  xiv 

United  States  Military  Assistance  Advi- 
sory Group  (MAAG),  32 

United  States  Military  Assistance 
Command- Vietnam  (MACV),  34-35, 
45,  252 

universities,  provincial,  127 

University  of  Agricultural  Sciences,  127 

University  of  Fine  Arts,  127 

University  of  Paris,  39 

University  of  Phnom  Penh,  39,  40,  127, 
133 

university   system   {see  also  Buddhist 

University),  127 
uprising,  peasant  (Samlot).  See  Samlot 

revolt 

U.S.  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA), 
66 


Vichy  government,  xxviii,  4,  21,  245 

Vickery,  Michael,  26,  29,  53,  90,  118, 
119,  123-24,  125,  128,  208,  218 

Viet  Cong,  xxx,  5,  33,  34,  42,  44-45,  47, 
252,  255,  320-21  {see  also  National 
Front  for  the  Liberation  of  South  Viet- 
nam (NFLSVN)) 

Viet  Minh,  xxviii,  4,  22,  27-28,  36,  39, 
246,  321;  combines  with  Khmer  Is- 
sarak,  250 


Viet-Muong  language  (Mon-Khmer), 
111 

Vietnam,  3,  6,  12,  14,  15,  18,  64,  80-81, 
142;  annexation  of  Cambodian  terri- 
tory by,  3,  14-15;  attacks  and  incur- 
sions by  Cambodians,  66,  68;  border 
dispute  with  Cambodia,  190,  262; 
border  with  Cambodia,  76,  81,  279; 
Cambodian  minority  groups  in,  104-5; 
cost  of  Cambodian  occupation  for, 
296-97;  economic  and  technical  as- 
sistance to  Cambodia  by,  173,  175;  in- 
vasion of  Cambodia  by,  xxxii,  6, 
69-70,  75,  155,  241;  as  major  trading 
partner  of,  169,  170-71;  military  as- 
sistance to  Cambodia  by,  287,  293; 
military  operations  in  Cambodia  of, 
297;  military  presence  in  Cambodia  by, 
295,  296-97;  offensive  (1978)  against 
Khmer  Rouge  (RAK),  264-66;  offen- 
sive in  Cambodia:  1984-85,  273,  276; 
opposition  to  military  forces  in  Cam- 
bodia of,  266-67,  269;  position  on  re- 
lations with  PRK  government  of,  191, 
192,  208,  224-35,  226;  role  in  Cambo- 
dian civil  war  of,  xxxiv-xxxv;  role  in 
KNUFNS  of,  263-64;  seizes  Cambo- 
dian island,  68;  withdrawal  of  troops 
in  Cambodia  by,  xxxv,  187,228, 
295-96 

Vietnam,  North,  xxx,  27,  30,  41,  42, 
44-45;  border  clashes  with  Khmer 
Rouge,  262;  Cambodian  offensive 
against,  256-58;  focus  on  Sihanouk  by, 
37-38;  incursions  into  Cambodia  by, 
5;  relations  with  Cambodia  of,  4, 
30-38,  251;  representation  at  Geneva 
Conference  by,  27-28 

Vietnam,  South,  xxx,  27,  30,  33-34, 
37-38;  border  dispute  with  Cambodia, 
252;  offensive  to  destroy  North  Viet- 
nam forces  in  Cambodia,  45 

Vietnamese:  military  forces,  187-88; 
operations  against  Cambodian  guerril- 
las, 267 

Vietnamese  Communist  Party,  36 
Vietnamese  in  Cambodia,  20,  55,  83, 

85-86,  108,  110,  122 
Vietnamese  people,  12,  14,  243 
Vietnam  War.  See  Second  Indochina  War 
Vietnam  Workers'  Party,  36,  40,  63,  317, 

218 

village  militia:  of  KPRAF,  290-91 


359 


Cambodia:  A  Country  Study 


villages:  of  Cham  people,  100;  of  Khmer 

Loeu,  101 
vissakh  bochea,  120 
Vogt,  John  W.,  46 

Voice  of  Democratic  Kampuchea  (Khmer 

Rouge  radio  station),  201 
Voice   of  the   Kampuchean  People 

(VOKP),  xix,  182,  215 
Vo  Nguyen  Giap,  68 
Vorn  Vet,  41,  64,  65,  69 
Vyadhapura,  7 


Wai  island,  263 
warfare,  historical,  242-43 
Warsaw  Pact  advisors:  PRK,  xxiii 
Water  Chenla  kingdom,  xxv,  9 
water  supply,  132 
water  transportation,  178,  181 
waterways,  inland,  xix,  159 
wat,  116-17,  119-20,  125,  136;  schools 
in,  130 

weapons  and  equipment:  of  CGDK,  xxii; 
from  China,  xxix,  272,  276;  of 
KPRAF:  PRK,  xxii,  287;  of  KPRAF 
village  militia,  290;  of  NADK:  coali- 
tion government,  xxii 

weather  (see  also  drought;  flooding;  mon- 
soons; typhoons),  10,  79-81,  141,  142, 
160 


welfare   programs  and  organizations, 

135-36 
Western  Zone,  54,  61,  65 
Willmott,  William,  106,  108 
Women.  See  female  role 
women  in  KPRAF,  292 
Women's  Mutual  Health  Association, 

136 

Workers'  Party  of  Kampuchea  (WPK), 
(see  also  Kampuchean  (Khmer)  Work- 
ers' Party  of  Kampuchea  (WPK)), 
40-41,  215,  317 

World  Bank,  xx,  150 

World  Council  of  Churches,  174 

WPK.  ^Workers'  Party  of  Kampuchea 
(WPK) 


Yasovarman  I,  10 
Yugoslavia,  149 
Yukanthor,  18 
Yunnan  region,  10 
Yun  Yat,  55 

Yuthevong.    See  Sisowath  Yuthevong 
(prince) 


Zhou  Enlai,  31,  52 

zones  (see  also  administrative  divisions); 
established  by  Khmer  Rouge  (NADK), 
271;  replacement  of  provinces  by,  61 


360 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-98 

Albania 

550-87 

Greece 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-59 

Angola 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-82 

Guyana 

550-169 

Australia 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-176 

Austria 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-21 

India 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-68 

Iran 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-61 

Burma 

550-25 

Israel 

550-37 

Burundi/Rwanda 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-oy 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

C  C  A     1  "TO 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

55U-22 

Cyprus 

E  C  A    1  C  1 

DOU-lol 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic/Haiti 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-167 

Finland 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-46 

Panama 

361 


550- 

-156 

Paraguay 

550- 

-185 

Persian  Gulf 

550- 

-42 

Peru 

550- 

-72 

Philippines 

550- 

-162 

Poland 

550- 

-181 

Portugal 

550- 

-160 

Romania 

550- 

-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550- 

-70 

Senegal 

550- 

-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550- 

-184 

Singapore 

550- 

-86 

Somalia 

550- 

-93 

South  Africa 

550- 

-95 

Soviet  Union 

550- 

-179 

Spain 

500- 

-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550- 

-27 

Sudan 

550- 

-47 

Syria 

550- 

-62 

Tanzania 

550- 

-53 

Thailand 

550-89  Tunisia 

550-80  Turkey 

550-74  Uganda 

550-97  Uruguay 

550-71  Venezuela 

550-32  Vietnam 

550-183  Yemens,  The 

550-99  Yugoslavia 

550-67  Zaire 

550-75  Zambia 

550-171  Zimbabwe 


362 


PIN:  004214-000 


