*  **' 

jCy 


Capital  Visions: 

Reflections  on  a  Decade  of 
Urban  Design  Charrettes 
and  a  Look  Ahead 


U.S.  Capitol  &  Union  Station  Plazas  &  Vicinity 


Capital  Visions: 

Reflections  on  a  Decade  of 
Urban  Design  Charrettes  and  a  Look  Ahead 


A  Symposium  Sponsored  by 
The  Library  of  Congress,  Geography  and  Map  Division 
and 

The  Washington  Area  Architectural  Group 
Friday,  March  31,  1995 


Edited  by 

Iris  Miller  and  Ronald  Grim 


Library  of  Congress,  Geography  and  Map  Division 
Washington,  D.C. 

1995 


This  symposium  and  related  events  were  cosponsored  by  the  Embassy  of  France;  U.S.  Capitol 
Historical  Society;  Franz  Bader  Bookstore;  EDAW  Landscape  Architects;  Hartman-Cox  Archi¬ 
tects;  Lehman/Smith/Wiseman  8c  Associates;  and  RTKL  Associates. 

Assistance  in  selecting  and  preparing  maps  and  drawings  for  display  following  the  symposium 
was  provided  by  Kristina  del  Carmen,  Archivist,  Nancy,  France;  James  Dravillas,  Dartmouth  Col¬ 
lege;  Gregory  K.  Hunt,  Washington-Alexandria  Center  for  Architecture,  Virginia  Polytechnic 
Institute;  Mark  Mclnturff,  Architect,  Bethesda,  MD.;  and  Russell  Knodle,  Geography  and  Map 
Division,  Library  of  Congress. 

This  publication  was  prepared  with  the  assistance  of  Judy  Marks,  American  Institute  of  Archi¬ 
tects;  and  Carla  Bussey  and  Jamella  Blocker,  Geography  and  Map  Division,  Library  of  Congress. 


/  4  I 


ISBN  0-8444-0882-4 


ooa'/1 foo(„ 


Program 


SESSION  I:  THE  LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS  COLLECTIONS 

Ralph  Ehrenberg  “ Welcome ” .  v 

Ronald  Grim  “Charrettes  Collection,  A  Complement  to  Urban  and  Architectural  Resources 

in  the  Geography  and  Map  Division  ”  .  1 

C.  Ford  Peatross  “Washingtoniana:  Collaboration  and  Collections  ” 

(oral  presentation  only) 

SESSION  H:  CHARRETTE  PROCESSES  AND  CITIZEN  INVOLVEMENT 

Iris  Miller  “En  Charrette  as  a  Community  and  Design  Process:  A  Legacy  for 

Urbanism ” .  4 

Susan  Piedmont-Palladino  “1 984-1 995:  From  Student  to  Professional  to  Teacher” .  9 

Gregory  K.  Hunt  ‘ From  Generic  Issues  to  Speculative  Visions:  Urban  Design  Charrettes  in 

Washington,  D.  C.,  The  Portal  and  King  Street  Metro  Sites  ”. .  11 

Charles  Zucker  “ The  Importance  of  Interdisciplinary  Team  Work  ” .  15 

David  Lewis  “Memory  of  the  Future” .  20 

SESSION  ID:  A  VISION  OF  WASHINGTON 

Steven  Hurtt  “Grand  Plan,  Monument,  Grid:  A  Defense  of  Washington,  D.C.” .  24 

Robert  Peck  “Central  Vision:  The  City  as  a  Living  and  Civic  Model” .  30 

T  .inda  Moody  “The  Neighborhood  Vision:  Raising  Community  Pride  and  Student 

Involvement” .  34 

Harry  Robinson  “Learning from  Georgia  Avenue” .  35 

SESSION  IV:  LEARNING  FROM  EXPERIENCE 

Joseph  Passonneau  “The Four  Street  Traditions  and  Their  Consequences”. .  36 

James  Banks  “Not  by  Design:  Federally  Subsidized  Housing  The  Unplanned 

Consequence” .  40 

George  Latimer  “Reclaiming  the  Public  Realm  — Space  and  Place  ” .  42 

Weiming  Lu  “Reinventing  Urban  Village:  Lowertown,  A  Response  to  Edge  Cities' 

Challenge” .  46 

Stanley  Hallet  “End  View” .  49 

iii 


PREFACE 


With  this  symposium,  the  Library  of  Congress  celebrates  the  gift  of  the  Urban  Design 
Charrettes  Collection  to  the  Geography  and  Map  Division.  The  collection  consists  of  some  1,000 
original  architectural  sketches,  drawings,  and  maps  prepared  by  students,  architects  and  landscape 
architects  as  part  of  an  educational  architectural  and  urban  design  program  from  1982-1989  to 
provide  innovative  design  solutions  for  the  nation’s  capital  based  upon  historic  and  social-economic 
analysis.  Initially  associated  with  the  Washington  Chapter  of  the  American  Institute  of  Architects 
(AIA)  and  the  Smithsonian  Institution  Resident  Associates  Program,  the  charrettes  program  was 
subsequently  transferred  to  The  Catholic  University  of  America’s  Department  of  Architecture  and 
Planning.  This  material  was  later  used  by  Iris  Miller,  Director  of  Landscape  Studies  and  Adjunct 
Assistant  Professor,  School  of  Architecture  and  Planning,  The  Catholic  University  of  America,  to 
produce  a  comprehensive  plan  of  Washington,  D.C.,  entitled  “Visions  of  Washington.”  The 
collection  was  donated  by  Professor  Miller  and  Gregory  Hunt,  Associate  Professor,  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Washington-Alexandria  Center  for  Architecture.  Material  from  a  related 
program  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  was  added  to  the  collection  by  David  van  Bakergem,  Associate 
Professor,  Department  of  Urban  Design,  School  of  Architecture,  Washington  University,  St  Louis, 
Missouri. 

This  donation  will  be  maintained  as  part  of  the  Geography  and  Map  Division  holdings,  which 
includes  more  than  4.5  million  maps  and  60,000  atlases,  representing  one  of  the  largest  cartographic 
collections  in  the  world.  The  Division’s  cartographic  resources  are  comprehensive  in  scope.  Dating 
from  the  fourteenth  century  to  the  present,  they  provide  geographic  coverage  for  most  countries, 
and  are  particularly  rich  in  large  city  plan  maps. 

The  addition  of  the  Urban  Design  Charrettes  Collection  greatly  enhances  the  Prints  and 
Photographs  Division’s  Washingtoniana  Collection  and  the  Geography  and  Map  Division’s 
unrivalled  collection  of  some  3,000  maps  and  atlases  of  Washington,  D.C.,  which  includes  such 
treasures  as  Pierre  Charles  L’Enfant’s  original  plan  of  the  City  of  Washington,  compiled  in  1791 
under  the  direction  of  George  Washington  and  annotated  by  Thomas  Jefferson,  and  Andrew 
Ellicott’s  manuscript  topographic  map  of  the  Territory  of  Columbia,  which  was  submitted  to 
President  Washington  on  June  25,  1793.  Through  a  generous  grant  from  the  National  Geographic 
Society,  all  of  the  Division’s  maps  and  atlases  of  Washington,  D.C.  have  been  fully  cataloged  and  are 
available  for  examination  in  the  Division’s  Reading  Room. 

While  the  focus  of  this  symposium  is  urban  planning  in  Washington,  D.C.,  the  participants 
touch  on  a  variety  of  topics  relating  to  urban  problems  and  planning.  The  sixteen  speakers  represent 
a  wide  spectrum  of  interests  and  perspectives,  including  curators,  teachers,  government  planners, 
and  elected  officials.  In  the  first  session,  two  curators  describe  the  retrospective  map  and 
architectural  resources  in  the  Library  of  Congress  that  are  available  for  students  of  urban  design.  In 
session  two,  the  charrettes  process  is  described  from  the  participant’s  viewpoint.  In  the  final  two 
sessions,  the  broader  issues  of  urban  problems  and  planning  are  analyzed  from  the  points-of-view  of 
professional  planners,  architects,  and  community  leaders. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  thank  Iris  Miller  and  Ronald  Grim  for  their  efforts  in  planning  and  arranging 
for  Urban  Design  Charrettes  Collection  symposium  and  for  editing  this  volume. 


Ralph  E.  Ehrenberg 

Chief,  Geography  and  Map  Division 


v 


CHARRETTES  COLLECTION:  A  COMPLEMENT  TO  URBAN  AND 
ARCHITECTURAL  RESOURCES  IN  THE  GEOGRAPHY  AND  MAP  DIVISION 

Ronald  E.  Grim 


The  cartographic  resources  of  the  Geography  and  Map  Division,  which  provide  comprehensive 
geographic  coverage  of  the  world  from  the  end  of  the  15th  century  to  the  present,  are  used  primar¬ 
ily  by  researchers  focusing  on  the  physical,  political,  social,  and  cultural  geography  and  history  of  the 
world,  with  particular  emphasis  on  the  United  States  and  Europe.  However,  among  the  4.5  million 
maps  and  approximately  60,000  atlases,  there  is  a  wealth  of  information  that  is  also  of  potential  inter¬ 
est  to  architects,  landscape  architects,  urban  planners  and  architectural  historians.  My  purpose, 
today,  is  to  highlight  six  major  categories  of  materials  that  will  be  useful  to  this  audience  and  that  will 
provide  the  context  for  the  new  Urban  Design  Charrettes  collection,  which  is  being  acknowledged 
with  this  symposium. 

One  of  the  most  valuable  portions  of  the  Division’s  holdings  is  its  approximately  2,000  rare 
adases  published  from  the  end  of  the  15th  through  the  end  of  the  18th  century.  Early  world  adases, 
which  attempted  to  provide  comprehensive  compendiums  of  geographical  knowledge,  often 
included  city  maps,  perspective  views,  and  architectural  drawings  of  prominent  buildings,  as  well  as 
their  usual  contingent  of  world,  country,  and  regional  maps.  In  addition,  compilers  of  some  of  these 
early  adases  issued  works  devoted  exclusively  to  urban  geography,  which  are  rich  sources  for  urban 
views  and  architectural  drawings  of  European  cities.  One  of  the  first  such  works  was  Georg  Braun 
and  Franz  Hogenberg’s  Theatre  des  cites  du  monde.  This  six-part  work  included  written  descriptions, 
accompanied  by  an  assortment  of  over  360  maps  and  views  dated  from  1564-1620  primarily  of  Euro¬ 
pean  cities,  but  with  a  few  from  Africa,  Asia,  and  the  Americas.  The  prominent  17th-century  Dutch 
cartographer  Joan  Blaeu,  who  is  best  known  for  his  Grand  Atlas,  a  twelve-volume  encyclopedia  of  geo¬ 
graphical  knowledge,  also  published  town  adases  for  the  Low  Countries  and  Italy.  The  latter  two-vol¬ 
ume  work,  Theatrum  dvitatum  et  admirandorum  ItaUae  of  1663,  focused  on  Rome  and  the  construction 
of  its  classical  monuments.  In  the  18th  century,  large-scale  perspective  engravings  were  prepared  for 
several  major  European  cities  including  Rome,  London,  Vienna,  and  Paris.  The  perspective  view  of 
Paris,  which  was  compiled  by  Louis  Bretez  during  the  1730s,  was  published  on  twenty  sheets,  both  in 
a  bound  adas  format  and  as  separate  sheets  that  could  be  mounted  together  as  a  large  wall  map.  This 
masterpiece  included  a  remarkable  amount  of  detail  for  individual  buildings  throughout  the  city, 
not  just  the  monuments.  In  addition,  the  Division  holds  substantial  numbers  of  city  maps  and  plans 
(many  which  are  not  catalogued)  for  most  European  cities.  For  example,  there  are  28  drawers,  or 
approximately  600  single  maps  of  Paris  dating  from  the  1500s  to  the  mid-1900s. 

In  the  American  context,  late  18th  to  early  20th  century  rural  architecture  can  be  documented 
by  several  map  sources.  While  Europeans,  especially  the  British,  had  the  practice  of  preparing  estate 
maps  of  large  landholdings,  which  frequendy  showed  the  mansion  house  along  with  associated  out¬ 
buildings  and  gardens,  Americans  only  adopted  this  format  to  a  limited  extent.  The  few  examples 
that  have  survived  are  usually  associated  with  southern  colonial  plantations.  One  interesting  example 
is  Nodey  Young’s  plantation  in  southwest  Washington,  D.C.,  which  was  mapped  in  1796  as  part  of  an 
effort  to  determine  the  relation  of  existing  farmsteads  to  proposed  streets.  In  this  case,  the  survey 
plat  not  only  showed  the  mansion  house,  but  also  associated  outbuildings  including  the  slave  quar¬ 
ters.  Another  example  is  the  widely  circulated  plan  of  Mt.  Vernon,  which  was  prepared  by  George 
Washington  in  1793. 

In  the  19th  century,  mapping  of  rural  land  holdings  became  more  egalitarian,  as  maps  were 
commonly  prepared  for  entire  counties,  rather  than  for  individual  farms  or  estates.  Initially,  these 
publications  were  large  wall-size  maps  which  were  issued  primarily  for  counties  in  the  Mid-Adantic 
and  New  England  states.  Prepared  on  a  subscription  basis,  these  maps  showed  the  names  of  land 
owners  within  the  county,  as  well  as  illustrations  of  a  few  prominent  buildings  or  the  wealthiest 


1 


farmsteads  such  as  the  1855  map  of  the  Three  Earls,  a  group  of  adjoining  townships  in  Lancaster 
County,  Pennsylvania.  After  the  Civil  War,  the  focus  of  this  mapping  endeavor  was  the  Midwest  and 
Great  Plains,  as  those  states  became  more  populous  and  prosperous.  Rather  than  large  wall  maps, 
the  format  turned  to  state  and  county  adases,  which  included  maps  of  individual  coundes  or  town¬ 
ships,  richly  illustrated  with  views  of  prominent  buildings,  numerous  farmsteads,  and  family  portraits. 
One  example  of  the  state  adas  is  Louis  H.  Everts’  1887  Official  State  Atlas  of  Kansas ,  which  included 
lithographed  drawings  as  illustrations.  An  example  of  the  county  adas  is  George  A.  Ogle’s  1911  Stan¬ 
dard  Atlas  of  York  County,  Nebraska,  which  used  photographs  as  illustrations.  The  Geography  and  Map 
Division  holds  1,500  county  wall  maps  published  before  1900  and  1,800  county  adases  published 
before  1920. 

Similarly,  19th  and  20th  century  American  urban  architecture  has  been  documented  in  two 
major  cartographic  sources.  The  first,  a  collection  of  approximately  700,000  fire  insurance  maps, 
provides  coverage  of  12,000  cities  and  towns  in  the  United  States  from  the  1880s  to  the  1950s.  Pre¬ 
pared  for  the  specific  purpose  of  assisting  fire  insurance  underwriters  in  determining  the  level  of  risk 
involved  in  insuring  individual  properties,  these  maps  provide  a  block-by-block  building  inventory  of 
individual  cities.  The  maps  show  the  footprint  of  each  building  and  indicate  by  color  its  construction 
material  (pink  for  brick,  yellow  for  wood,  and  blue  for  stone).  A  variety  of  urban  situations  are 
depicted,  including  commercial  establishments  and  public  buildings,  such  as  those  found  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  Pennsylvania  Avenue  Post  Office  in  Washington,  D.C.’s  Federal  Triangle;  or  industrial 
complexes,  such  as  the  Tredegar  Iron  Works  on  the  James  River  in  Richmond,  Virginia;  or  residen¬ 
tial  areas,  such  as  the  concentration  of  “shot  gun”  style  houses  in  the  Portland  community  of 
Louisville,  Kentucky.  Also  depicted  on  this  Louisville  map  is  a  former  marine  hospital,  which  was 
based  on  a  standard  design  by  Robert  Mills. 

Complementing  these  fire  insurance  plans  for  researching  urban  structures,  are  urban  pano¬ 
ramic  or  bird’s-eye  views.  These  commercial  publications  became  very  popular  during  the  last  three 
decades  of  the  19th  century  and  the  first  two  decades  of  the  20th  century.  Usually  drawn  as  if  viewed 
from  an  elevated  perspective  of  2,000  or  3,000  feet,  they  showed  not  only  the  city’s  street  pattern  but 
also  individual  buildings  in  perspective.  Although  these  views  were  often  commissioned  by  city 
fathers  interested  in  promoting  the  city’s  image  for  commercial,  industrial,  or  residential  purposes, 
they  provided  a  reasonably  accurate  portrait  of  major  cities  and  towns  in  the  United  States.  The 
Library  has  a  collection  of  over  1,700  panoramic  views,  which  are  exemplified  by  views  of  Seattle  and 
Tacoma,  Washington,  both  published  by  Henry  Wellge  in  1884,  and  a  1921  view  of  Washington, 
D.C.,  by  William  Olsen. 

A  final  portion  of  the  collection  that  is  particularly  useful  for  urban  designers  and  planners,  is 
the  large  number  of  city  maps  and  plans  which  are  an  integral  part  of  the  Division’s  cartographic 
holdings.  A  special  focus  of  the  urban  map  component  is  Washington,  D.C.,  with  approximately 
4,000  map  sheets  and  140  atlases.  The  variety  of  cartographic  documents  is  quite  broad,  including 
early  planning  maps  such  as  L’Enfant’s  original  plan  and  Latrobe’s  1815  plan  of  the  Capitol 
grounds;  large-scale  topographical  maps,  such  as  Albert  Boschke’s  detailed  maps  of  the  city  and  its 
environs  published  in  the  1850s;  general  reference  and  street  maps,  such  as  E.G.  Arnold’s  1862  topo¬ 
graphic  map  of  the  District  and  J.H.  Colton’s  atlas  map  of  the  city,  with  insets  of  the  Smithsonian  Cas¬ 
tle,  Capitol,  and  Washington  Monument;  more  recent  planning  maps  such  as  the  National  Capital 
Park  and  Planning  Commission’s  1941  plan  for  a  monumental  east-west  axis  through  the  center  of 
the  city;  and  aerial  images,  such  as  these  infrared  vertical  and  oblique  views  of  the  metropolitan  area. 

Maps  and  architectural  drawings,  by  definition,  share  common  characteristics,  in  that  they  both 
are  scaled,  graphic  devices,  which  depict  a  selection  of  spatial  data.  Architectural  drawings  and  urban 
plans,  on  the  one  hand,  are  generally  very  large-scale  depictions  of  individual  buildings  or  selected 
portions  of  a  city.  Maps,  on  the  other  hand  are  large-,  moderate-,  or  small-scale  representations  of 
larger  geographic  areas,  such  as  a  city,  county,  state,  country,  or  continent.  Architectural  plans  gener¬ 
ally  show  the  ideal,  providing  the  plan  for  what  is  to  be  constructed,  while  maps  show  the  real,  docu¬ 
menting  what  exists  in  the  physical  landscape  or  what  has  been  added  as  part  of  the  cultural 


2 


landscape.  The  charrette  collection  will  add  to  the  architectural  resources  in  the  Geography  and 
Map  Division,  finding  a  context  among  the  early  European  town  atlases  and  maps,  large-scale  estate 
plans,  county  land  ownership  maps  and  atlases,  fire  insurance  maps,  panoramic  views,  and  American 
city  maps  and  plans.  Certainly,  these  urban  design  studies  will  complement  the  architectural  and 
urban  cartographic  resources  that  are  already  a  vital  part  of  the  Geography  and  Map  Division’s  hold¬ 
ings. 


3 


EN  CHARRETTE  AS  A  COMMUNITY  AND  DESIGN  PROCESS: 
A  LEGACY  FOR  URBANISM 

Iris  Miller 


“How  can  I  tell  you  about  zen  in  one  hour?”  the  zen  priest  began  his  lecture,  “instead  I  will  tell 
you  about  my  recent  trip  to  India,  the  sites,  sounds,  colors,  the  wind.  .  The  poetics  of  these  words, 
followed  by  his  vivid  descriptions,  have  remained  in  my  memory  along  with  the  extraordinary 
imagery  of  a  country  I  had  not  yet  seen.  Instandy,  I  gained  new  insight  into  the  wonder,  meaning 
and  ritual  of  ‘place-making.’  I  sensed  that  urbanism  speaks  to  us  about  beauty,  sensory  perception, 
and  the  iconography  with  which  we  identify  and  which  represents  a  ‘spirit  of  place.’  The  excitement 
of  continuous  discovery  is  fundamental  to  our  need  for  order  and  fantasy. 

This  symposium  at  the  Library  of  Congress  is  devoted  to  a  subject  of  great  national  impor¬ 
tance — urbanism,  its  means  and  impact  upon  citizens  and  cities.  Design  of  the  public  realm  is  inte¬ 
gral  to  the  economic,  socio-political,  and  cultural  life  of  communities.  Together  the  papers  being 
presented  will  highlight  these  critical  issues. 

My  paper  will  concentrate  on  urban  landscape  and  the  charrette  process  as  a  method  to  facili¬ 
tate  urban  design.  I  will  discuss  the  citizen  participation  and  design  studio  charrette  strategies  which 
evolved  in  Washington,  and  in  cities  such  as  Dallas,  St.  Louis,  and  Cleveland,  during  the  1980s.  With 
their  many  permutations,  they  became  models  for  similar  intensive  programs  all  across  the  country. 
My  concluding  remarks  will  return  to  their  legacy  for  urbanism.  I  will  offer  my  personal  observations 
about  the  shifting  nature  of  urban  design,  touching  upon  new  versions  of  promenade,  the  emerging 
discourse  on  cultural  landscapes,  the  benefits  of  management  tools  to  maintain  and  attract  people  to 
our  parks  and  open  spaces,  the  need  for  housing  at  all  income  levels  to  create  stable  vital  city  centers, 
and  lastly,  the  quintessential  element  in  our  perception  and  appreciation  of  our  environments, 
beauty. 

Urban  Design  Charrette  Pedagogy 

The  Washington  urban  design  charrettes  were  created  as  something  totally  new.  Based  in  the 
pedagogy  of  architectural  education,  the  organizers,  members  of  the  Washington,  DC  Chapter/ 
American  Institute  of  Architects  (ALA) ,  set  out  to  develop  a  new  model  for  urban  study  and  problem¬ 
solving.  It  was  a  bold  experiment  to  introduce  the  urban  design  process  to  non-designers — city  offi¬ 
cials  and  interested  citizens — working  along  with  practicing  professionals,  students  and  their  faculty. 

The  goals  were  two-fold:  (1)  to  provide  a  program  for  professionals  and  the  community  which 
explores  salient  issues  about  our  urban  environment  integrating  design  and  policy  opportunities, 
and  (2)  to  offer  an  educational  situation  which  simulates  a  real-world  work  experience.  Further,  the 
program  organizers  believed  that  design  projects  executed  with  students  working  on  multi¬ 
disciplinary  teams  could  be  advantageous  to  “the  community  as  client”  for  the  following  reasons. 
First,  the  benefit  of  producing  a  number  of  concepts  may  help  a  community  to  understand  alternate 
approaches  to  a  problem,  and  to  become  a  more  decisive  decision-maker.  Second,  a  powerful  vision¬ 
ary  idea  can  galvanize  public  opinion  and  eventually  bring  about  significant  change. 

One  year  in  the  planning,  beginning  in  1981,  with  advice  from  175  professionals  throughout 
the  country,  the  charrette  programs  were  composed  of  lectures,  site  visits,  community  meetings  and 
on-site  interviews,  and  intensive  rapid  work  by  the  multidisciplinary  teams  to  develop  design  and  pol¬ 
icy  proposals.  The  charrette  paradigm  was  derived  from  a  combination  of  prototypes:  (1)  the  univer¬ 
sity  studio/theory  course,  (2)  the  multi-disciplinary  process  of  design  in  the  public  realm,  (3)  a 
teaching  seminar  employing  similar  team  tactics  (held  at  Cranbrook  Academy  the  previous  year  by 
the  Association  of  Collegiate  Schools  of  Architecture)  for  professors  of  architecture  to  hone  their 
design  teaching  skills.  Informed  in  part  by  citizen  involvement  in  community  issues  of  the  late  1960s, 


4 


a  community  participation  process  to  focus  design  decisions  preceded  the  lectures  and  design  ses¬ 
sions. 

Each  team  had  autonomy  to  extend  site  boundaries  to  expose  place  linkages.  It  was  a  fast  means 
to  elicit  intuitive  and  inventive  responses  to  a  host  of  situations.  It  was  a  rare  chance  to  see  eminent 
designers  at  work.  The  brevity  of  the  charrettes  intensified  the  need  to  work  rapidly,  to  muster  ideas 
and  test  for  group  acceptance  or  rejection,  to  set  time  limits  for  each  phase,  to  make  decisions,  and  to 
cooperate.  The  spontaneity  and  informality  surfaced  a  gamut  of  wild  hunches,  an  impromptu  explo¬ 
sion  of  ideas,  a  set  of  site-specific  drawings  and  descriptive  works  for  comparison.  With  four  to  six 
teams  examining  the  same  site  (or  as  in  1985,  five  related  sites)  under  the  able  leadership  of  talented 
architects  and  landscape  architects,  we  participants  were  positioned  to  compare  and  contrast  our 
ideas — to  debate,  occasionally  vehemendy, — and  to  hone  our  views  about  how  we  want  to  live. 

Community  Participation  Processes 

At  the  outset,  beginning  with  the  first  Washington  charrette  in  1982,  with  a  grant  from  the 
Nadonal  Endowment  for  the  Arts,  a  community  participation  process  was  developed.  This  process 
enabled  the  charrette  design  teams  to  be  better  informed  about  citizen  interests  and  considerations 
when  they  went  about  the  task  of  developing  design  schemes. 

In  addition  to  presentations  by  representatives  of  divergent  community  interests,  two  formats 
were  devised  to  elicit  citizen  opinions  and  concerns.  The  first  was  a  community  town  meeting.  The 
second  was  on-site  interviews.  In  both  formats,  large  bright-colored  markers  recorded  questions  and 
responses  on  butcher  or  flip-chart  paper  posted  on  black  boards,  walls,  or  set  on  long  tables.  Occa¬ 
sionally  citizens  drew  their  design  proposals  on  standard  size  paper  photocopied  with  site  plans. 
Cogent  ideas  about  their  environments  were  set  down  by  both  the  skilled  and  the  unskilled — custo¬ 
dians,  travel  agents,  lawyers,  secretaries,  city  officials,  and  architects.  The  results  were  collated  and 
made  available  for  use  by  the  teams. 

In  both  circumstances,  at  community  meetings  and  on-site  interviews,  a  set  of  four  or  five  ques¬ 
tions  about  place  invariably  produces  useful  answers. 

1 .  What  are  the  ASSETS?  ( what  do  you  like  about  the  placet} 

2.  What  are  the  PROBLEMS?  ( what  don't  you  like  about  the  placet) 

3.  What  should  be  done? 

4.  Who  should  do  it? 

5.  Where  did  you  come  here  from  (trip  length)  and  by  what  means?  (at  on-site  interviews) 

The  first  two  questions  are  easy.  They  never  fail  to  invite  answers.  Dreams  and  aspirations,  needs 
and  desires  begin  to  emerge.  At  Kiener  Plaza  in  St.  Louis,  a  sales  clerk  drew  a  park  with  clustered 
trees  and  flowers,  benches  and  fountains,  people  strolling  and  children  playing.  It  is  the  third  and 
fourth  questions  that  pose  the  greatest  dilemmas.  How  do  those  responsible  for  decision-making — 
the  designer,  the  planning  officer,  the  developer,  the  mayor — resolve  disputes  arising  from  differing 
philosophies  and  self-interests?  A  recent  Washington  Post  article  by  David  Broder  noted  that  Ohio 
Governor  George  Voinovich  (Mayor  of  Cleveland  during  the  1983  charrette)  rephrased  these  ques¬ 
tions,  asking  what  should  government  do  and  at  what  level. 

This  is  where  the  hard  choices  must  be  made  about  use  requirements,  public  space  amenities, 
and  form — style,  height  limits,  density,  set  backs.  The  hope  is  that  the  process  of  bringing  the  com¬ 
munity  to  the  table  with  designers  will  result  in  an  informed  constituent  group,  able  to  synthesize 
ideas  from  problem  to  solution  and  more  able  to  resolve  conflicts.  Producing  answers  is  difficult  at 
best,  but  usually  the  process  works  exceedingly  well.  Nonetheless,  I  have  yet  to  find  a  simple  way  to 
settle  complex  issues  where  passions  and  large  amounts  of  money  are  at  stake. 

Citizen  participation  broadens  the  community-building  process,  becoming  valuable  for  infor¬ 
mation-gathering,  a  means  to  ascertain  priorities  of  people.  In  our  rapidly  changing  times,  informed 
citizen  input  can  guide  the  dialectic  between  dogma  and  practice. 


5 


Beyond  Process,  A  Legacy  for  Urbanism 

Looking  back  at  the  work  that  was  created,  the  classical  urban  landscape  idiom,  rather  than 
modernism,  was  the  preferred  design  model  of  the  charrette  teams.  Replete  with  linear  tree-lined 
streets  and  recurrent  public  squares,  a  universal  vocabulary  portrayed  a  hierarchical  spatial  articu¬ 
lation.  Rejecting  anti-urban  ideology  (undifferentiated  incomprehensible  spatial  composition),  the 
designs  invariably  were  layered  with  symbolic  meaning  reflecting  ordered  contextual  continuity. 
Urban  fabric  was  constructed  of  mediation  devices  of  discrete  imagery,  modulated  views,  focal 
points,  and  clear  volumetric  relationships  of  building  and  artifice  to  open  space.  The  richness  of 
urban  form  as  a  complete  organism  of  accumulated  fragments  and  set  pieces  affirmed  the  vision  of 
an  emotive  ‘place.’  Washington,  D.C.,  because  of  its  character,  especially  elicited  the  use  of  classical 
models.  Respect  for  history  was  the  link  in  the  legacy  for  urbanism. 

Involvement  in  these  programs  was  so  thoroughly  exciting,  so  profoundly  meaningful.  People 
of  diverse  backgrounds,  perspectives,  and  ages  came  together  (gratis)  because  they  shared  a  genuine 
concern  about  the  relationship  between  architecture,  the  historical  experience  of  community/at'ztas, 
and  the  city.  This  shared  commitment  engendered  a  lasting  dedication  to  promoting  quality  of  life 
and  the  enhancement  of  our  urban  environments.  Moreover,  new  important  professional  friend¬ 
ships  were  formed  that  enabled  colleagues  to  network  and  spread  the  message.  For  some,  we  were 
young,  rather  new  in  the  field.  For  others,  we  were  testing  our  own  values,  culled  from  our  education 
and  experiences.  Generally,  we  were  questioning  modern  urban  form  as  a  panacea  for  urban  ills. 
Many  wanted  to  be  on  the  cutting  edge,  yet  knew  that  the  traditional  city  and  town  had  much  to 
teach.  For  others,  asserting  traditional  urban  values  was  the  cutting  edge.  Inevitably,  our  designs, 
while  distinctive  from  team  to  team,  sprang  from  a  regard  for  images  which  blend  memory  and  cul¬ 
ture.  We  did  not  rely  solely  on  our  architectural  education,  but  rather  we  went  to  the  community  to 
solicit  ideas  about  how  people  envisioned  their  public  space. 

It  did  not  stop  here.  We  became  an  ad  hoc  dedicated  group  of  urbanists.  We  taught  and  lectured 
in  universities  and  other  forums.  We  advanced  our  ideas  in  publications  to  communities  and  profes¬ 
sional  groups.  We  utilized  the  charrette/ citizen  process  in  our  offices,  our  schools,  our  cities.  Others 
adapted  these  programs  to  their  own  visions. 

Perceptions  of  the  Changing  Nature  of  Urban  Design 

Cities  do  not  remain  static.  New  urban  issues  arise.  Public-private  partnerships  and  non-profit 
development  corporations  have  assumed  new  roles  in  urban  development.  As  urbanists,  we  must  be 
ready  to  address  changing  situations  with  the  verve  and  commitment  which  we  brought  to  the  char- 
re  ttes. 

New  versions  of  promenade.  Historically  cities  were  designed  to  accommodate  promenade — a  cus¬ 
tom  reinvented  at  a  different  scale  in  the  contemporary  city.  The  significance  of  urban  walks  in  Euro¬ 
pean  town  planning  as  a  tradition  of  fashion  and  routine  became  less  consequential  in  North 
American  urbanism  while  the  relationship  between  city  and  nature  increased.  Although  the  ritual  of 
promenade  as  a  daily  event  has  been  all  but  erased  from  our  experience,  transposed  streetscape 
imagery  has  exerted  powerful  associations.  As  a  mode  of  urban  life,  reclaimed  waterfronts,  rail  line 
rights-of-way,  and  trails  along  drainage  culverts,  creeks,  and  canals  are  providing  new  versions  of 
promenade — for  jogging,  biking,  blading,  hiking  and  other  physical  fitness  activities  in  sustainable 
environments.  Crossing  arbitrary  boundaries  beyond  jurisdictional  confines,  these  park  and  trail  sys¬ 
tems  connect  regional  and  cultural  centers.  From  Manhattan  to  upstate  New  York,  along  the  length 
of  the  Los  Angeles  River  and  waterfront,  from  suburban  Maryland  to  National  Airport  (Virginia) 
new  links  bear  the  imprint  of  contemporary  socialization. 

Cultural  landscapes.  In  the  past  two  decades  a  new  field  of  concerns  has  emerged  which  could 
have  broad  implications  for  decision-making  about  urbanism,  that  of  cultural  landscapes  and  preser¬ 
vation.  Historic  land  which  meets  set  criteria  and  typology  categories  (designed  and  intentionally 


6 


X 

CD 

__ _ 

T3 

— 

■O 

"O 

— 

0 

• 

* 

CD 

cn 

p  "4* 

00 

-vj 

— * 

0 

5’ 

5’ 

5’ 

0 

0 

0 

ro 

ro 

cn 

ro 

o 

o 

D 

o 

CD 

3. 

n‘ 

0^ 


0 

=7 

O 

c_ 

Cl 


0 

CD 

Cl 


o 

o 

D 

O 

0 

r+ 

n‘ 

0 


f 

0 

—  • 

< 

3 

0 

0 

D 

3 

D 

0 

0 

CQ 

0 

=7 

O 

5’ 

C 

c 

CL 

— 1 

0 

0 

c 

0 

0 

Q. 

c_ 

CL 

0~ 

< 

0 

0 

0 

D 

CL 

—  • 

D 

** 

created;  organically  evolved;  continuing)  may  be  designated  as  a  cultural  landscape  by  the  U.S. 
National  Park  Service.  The  narrative  of  ‘place-making’  derives  from  the  collage  of  personal  and  col¬ 
lective  experience.  The  urban  settings  that  people  create  tell  much  about  their  values,  attitudes,  and 
sensitivities.  Every  street  or  open  space  belongs  to  a  public  realm  which  merges  history  and  tradition, 
images  and  events. 

The  world  over,  designed  urban  landscapes  are  the  heart  of  our  cultural  heritage  —  riverfronts, 
plazas  and  squares,  meandering  parks  and  axial  malls,  linear  open  space.  While  cultural  survival  is 
dependent  upon  a  willingness  to  preserve  its  resources,  new  perspectives  are  necessary  to  clarify  and 
identify  landscapes  of  transient  obsolescence  from  the  profoundly  unique.  Hence,  timelessness  and 
significance  must  be  balanced  in  the  continuous  struggle  between  nature  and  structure,  urban  vital¬ 
ity  and  decay.  The  challenge  for  the  professional  is  to  provide  guidance  to  communities  in  determin¬ 
ing  generic  and  specific  priorities  regarding  cultural  landscapes. 

Consider  such  questions.  Should  an  industrial  waterfront  be  preserved  intact  if  the  industrial 
use  is  no  longer  viable,  or  should  it  be  redesigned  as  a  promenade,  perhaps  with  mixed  commercial 
and  residential  use  in  accordance  with  recent  trends?  From  what  context  should  a  new  design  derive 
its  imagery?  What  role  might  public-private  partnerships  take  in  funding,  altering  or  effecting  possi¬ 
bilities  for  preservation  or  reuse?  The  ‘funky’  treatment  of  Granville  Island,  British  Columbia  stands 
in  stark  contrast  to  the  urbane  refinement  of  lower  Manhattan  Battery  Park  City  or  Charleston, 
South  Carolina  waterfronts. 

Management  tools.  A  relatively  new  phenomenon  in  the  development  of  cultural  urban  land¬ 
scapes  are  parks  employing  effective  management  tools.  Typified  by  Paley,  Greenacres  and  Bryant 
Parks  (behind  the  old  Library)  in  New  York,  Baltimore  Inner  Harbor,  Meers  Park  in  St.  Paul,  Persh¬ 
ing  Square  and  Biddie  Mason  Park  in  Los  Angeles,  Yerba  Buena  Center  in  San  Francisco,  and  Seatde 
Pike  Place  Market,  these  places  reflect  their  cultural  context.  Following  successful  European  models, 
they  utilize  management  strategies  by  either  the  public  or  private  sectors.  They  are  clean,  safe,  attrac¬ 
tive,  fun  and  popular.  Management  associations  organized  by  business  and  neighborhood  groups 
have  had  similar  impact,  evenin  such  dense  urban  fabric  as  Times  Square  in  New  York. 

The  critical  role  of  housing.  The  cyclical  nature  in  the  evolution  of  cities  usually  necessitates  a  cata¬ 
lyst  to  revitalize  center  cities.  Predictive  data  now  exists  regarding  the  potential  variables  which 
impinge  upon  each  other  to  foster  pride  and  active,  pleasurable  urbanism.  According  to  a  study  pre¬ 
sented  at  the  Congress  for  New  Urbanism  by  Christopher  Leinberger  (of  Robert  Charles  Lesser  8c 
Company,  February  1995),  the  most  stable  vital  downtowns  are  those  with  a  critical  mass  of  upper- 
middle  to  up-scale  housing  in  or  near  the  center,  along  with  other  factors  such  as  vibrant  retail, 
employment,  and  tourists.  Washington  needs  to  take  heed.  Teetering  between  stability  and  decline, 
with  a  declining  retail,  it  is  urgent  that  potential  and  designated  areas  for  upper  level  housing  not  be 
traded  away  for  “linkages”  (agreements  to  set  aside  housing  requirements  in  one  area  in  order  to 
transfer  funds  for  low-cost  housing  to  another  location).  This  practice  was  a  mistake.  That  Pennsylva¬ 
nia  Avenue  Development  Corporation  stood  firm  and  refused  to  relinquish  its  housing  requirement 
under  pressure  testifies  to  its  vision  of  new  vitality  in  the  Avenue  Corridor. 

Aesthetics  and  perceptions.  As  an  urban  paradigm,  the  masterplan  of  Washington,  DC  offers  an 
ordered  traditional  urban  landscape  with  open  spaces  as  near  and  distant  focal  points  at  regular 
comfortable  walking  distances,  linked  by  orthagonal  and  diagonal  streets,  which  divide  the  city  into 
sectors  allowing  for  the  formation  of  cohesive  neighborhoods,  as  envisioned  by  the  designer,  Pierre 
Charles  L’Enfant.  Designed  at  one  point  in  time  at  the  center,  the  city  grew  by  accretion,  from  the 
“in-town”  suburbs  to  the  boundaries  of  the  ten-mile  square  and  beyond.  The  grandeur  of  the  plan 
and  the  monumental  buildings  can  reinforce  an  understanding  of  the  city  as  the  stately  national 
capital.  However,  magnificence  and  dignity  alone  cannot  insure,  but  rather  merely  facilitate  the  pos¬ 
sibility  of  active  urban  life  and  socially  safe  places. 

A  comparison  of  two  similarly  configured  squares,  each  two  blocks  from  the  White  House,  Far- 
ragut  and  McPherson  Squares,  illustrates  that  design  is  simply  the  armature  of  a  landscape  upon 
which  a  culture  might  flourish.  Historically,  these  two  squares  have  attracted  quite  different  popula- 


7 


tions  and  occupancy  levels.  Disparities  have  existed  by  time  of  day  and  weekend/weekday  use,  and  by 
adjacent  neighborhood  factors.  Farragut  Square  has  been  filled  with  a  mix  of  people  from  lawyers 
and  bankers  to  students,  shop  keepers  and  clerks  to  messengers.  In  contrast,  the  under-utilized 
McPherson  Square  has  been  home  to  the  homeless,  hippies  and  druggies.  New  construction  and 
improvements  sweeping  eastward  have  begun  to  reduce  these  population  differences. 

Civic  design,  a  prevailing  early  20th  century  notion,  is  critical  to  quality  of  life  in  the  21st  cen¬ 
tury.  It  is  the  common  denominator  of  our  societal  mix.  It  is  the  confirmation  of  our  emotional  com¬ 
munal  experience — young  or  old,  poor  or  wealthy.  Splendid  places  offer  the  poetics  of  urban 
landscape,  the  essence  of  collective  memory  of  a  culture — the  marketplace  of  inspiration.  In  search¬ 
ing  for  value,  it  is  the  public  realm  to  which  people  attach  special  meaning.  As  our  ideas  are  subject 
to  constant  reinterpretation,  our  identification  with  a  place  reflects  the  improvisation  of  the 
moment,  the  Zeitgeist,  and  the  history  of  a  larger  society. 

We  need  to  bring  aesthetics  back  into  the  dialogue  about  cities  and  suburbs.  This  indispensable 
concept  signifies  how  we  visualize  community — and  it  makes  good  bottom-line  economic  sense.  Yet, 
we  hesitate  to  acknowledge  its  necessity.  Because  of  concern  about  the  needy  and  less  affluent  in 
society,  we  tend  to  be  too  timid  to  address  aesthetics  as  design  requisites  although  beauty  is  equally 
essential  for  people  of  all  income  levels. 

The  legacy  for  urbanism  is  multifaceted,  beyond  any  individual  program,  site,  or  design.  It 
argues  for  a  commitment  to  strive  for  excellence,  in  harmony  with  commonly  held  values.  The 
visual,  aesthetic  and  tactile  context  in  consort  with  socio-economic  consequences,  intellectual 
metaphors  and  functional  factors  holds  the  promise  and  inspiration  for  urbanism  and  avoids  the 
dilemma  of  city-building  pictorially  frozen  in  time  negating  reality  in  the  urban  equation. 

Visions  of  Washington,  Composite  Plan  of  Urban  Interventions,  published  in  1991  as  a  summary  of 
the  urbanistic  ideas  raised  by  community  participants  and  the  multidisciplinary  charrette  teams, 
reflects  the  continuity  of  an  urban  tradition  and  a  vision  for  a  livable  community  for  the  next  cen¬ 
tury,  reinforcing  the  principles  of  classical  urbanism. 


8 


1984-1995:  FROM  STUDENT  TO  PROFESSIONAL  TO  TEACHER 

Susan  Piedmont-Palladino 


Eleven  years  ago  this  March,  I  was  a  student  participant  in  the  Urban  Design  Charrette  on  the 
so-called  Portal  Site,  at  the  time  ten  acres  of  nothingness  in  the  southwest  quadrant  of  Washington. 
Hemmed  in  by  freeway  spaghetti  and  bisected  by  the  railroad,  the  site  served  as  the  first  image  of 
Washington  for  myriad  automobile  travellers  on  the  14th  Street  bridge  and  rail  passengers  on 
Amtrak.  The  site  now  greets  Metro  Yellow  line  passengers,  myself  among  them,  and  Virginia  Rail 
Express  commuters,  which  suggests  that  the  original  identification  of  the  site  as  exceptionally  promi¬ 
nent  was  accurate  and  forward  thinking.  It  has  yet,  however,  to  realize  its  full  potential  the  very  defi¬ 
nition  of  which  formed  the  basis  for  the  most  provocative  debates  and  proposals  during  the 
three-day  event.  This  charrette  and  those  that  preceded  and  followed  it  did  set  an  example  for  col¬ 
laborations  among  students,  professionals,  critics  and  civic  institutions  which  lives  on  in  the  form  of 
the  Washington  Area  Architecture  Group. 

WAAG,  as  the  group  has  come  to  be  known,  was  founded  in  1986  and  originally  included  the 
four  schools  of  architecture  in  the  Washington  area  and  the  American  Institute  of  Architects.  Its  orig¬ 
inal  mission  was  directed  toward  reaping  the  benefits  of  collaborations  among  academia  and  the 
profession,  facilitating  better  communications  among  the  design  community,  and  expanding  the 
public’s  awareness  of  architecture  and  design.  WAAG’s  core  membership  is  now  comprised  of  five 
schools  of  architecture,  (the  University  of  the  District  of  Columbia  has  recently  joined  the  four  origi¬ 
nal  schools,  the  Catholic  University,  Howard  University,  the  University  of  Maryland  at  College  Park, 
and  Virginia  Tech’s  Washington/Alexandria  Architecture  Consortium),  the  three  area  American 
Institute  of  Architecture  chapters,  the  national  ALA,  and  the  National  Building  Museum,  our  host 
organization.  In  the  last  two  years,  WAAG  has  opened  membership  to  include  professional  organiza¬ 
tions  such  as  Architects/Designers/Planners  for  Social  Responsibility,  the  American  Institute  of 
Architecture  Students,  as  well  as  at-large  members. 

In  the  last  eleven  years  since  the  charrette,  I  have  been  a  student,  a  practicing  architect,  and  an 
educator,  and  now  as  out-going  Chair  of  WAAG  for  the  year  1994,  I  have  the  opportunity  through 
this  symposium  to  reflect  on  these  charrette  experiences  and  how  they  affected  my  views  on  the  city 
and  on  education.  At  the  time,  I  was  in  my  final  year  of  a  three-year  Masters  of  Architecture  program 
at  Virginia  Tech.  I  had  come  to  the  Alexandria  campus  with  the  express  purpose  of  acquiring  an 
understanding  of  the  urban  condition.  I  was  a  member  of  Team  IV,  led  by  Susanna  Torre,  then  of 
Columbia  University,  now  of  Cran brook,  and  assisted  by  a  group  of  young  practitioners  and  faculty 
from  New  York  and  Charlottesville. 

The  question  of  where  the  site’s  real  potential  lay  was  the  design  teams’  first  challenge.  The 
charrette  intentionally  focused  on  the  site  as  a  place  in  search  of  a  purpose,  rather  than  the  more 
conventional  design  problem  of  a  program  and  site  in  search  of  a  form.  This  lack  of  programmatic 
specificity  raised  fundamental  philosophical  issues  regarding  the  city  for  the  groups.  The  effective 
isolation  of  the  Portal  Site  begged  questions  of  whether  to  treat  it  as  an  autonomous  urban  enclave, 
as  several  of  the  teams  did,  or  recognize  it  as  a  fragment  of  a  larger  whole.  This  latter  position  then 
challenged  the  designers  to  overcome  the  infrastructural  barriers  to  the  site’s  integration  into  the 
city. 

Our  group  took  the  latter  position,  and  proposed  a  subtle,  imperceptible  to  some,  criticism  of 
the  homogenization  of  the  city.  Torre  choose  to  reveal  the  topography  and  the  train  tracks,  anticipat¬ 
ing  a  rail  stop  in  the  future.  Looking  back  at  that  proposal  with  the  recent  VRE  connection  in  mind, 
I’m  struck  by  how  sensible  it  seems.  The  project  also  took  a  critical  position  toward  the  tendency  to 
treat  the  site  as  a  single  entity,  one  that  must  be  unified  by  form,  infrastructure  and  purpose.  Our 
team  re-established  13th  Street,  re-defined  and  pedestrianized  Maryland  Avenue,  and  thereby 
divided  the  site  effectively  into  four  “normal”  city  blocks. 


9 


All  of  the  solutions,  or  more  appropriately,  proposals — for  none  could  really  be  called  a  solu¬ 
tion — stretched  between  the  two  extremes  of  the  visionary  and  the  pragmatic.  The  most  pragmatic, 
perhaps,  was  represented  by  the  port  authority/ transportation  hub  proposal.  The  most  visionary  was 
surely  Antoine  Predock’s  agrarian  crevasse  and  “Museum  of  the  World.”  In  a  sense  these  two 
extremes  represent  the  inherent  ambiguity  of  a  charrette  of  this  kind.  The  brief  time  frame  pre¬ 
scribes  a  real  solution,  even  if  the  realities  of  the  site  and  its  imminent  development  are  understood. 
Ambiguous  also  is  the  nature  of  the  participants;  students  like  myself,  professionals,  educators,  citi¬ 
zens,  government  officials,  and  critics  attacking  a  complex  urban  design  situation  which  has  con¬ 
founded  others  for  some  time. 

That  the  results  cannot  really  be  described,  then  or  now,  as  solutions  should  not  be  understood 
as  a  failure.  Rather  the  responsibility  was  not  necessarily  to  solve  a  problem,  but  to  define  what  the 
problem  was.  A  design  charrette  begins  with  a  “mess”,  the  somewhat  amusing  term  used  by  Donald 
Schon  in  his  book,  The  Reflective  Practitioner,  to  describe  the  complex  soup  out  of  which  problems 
arise  and  are  identified.  The  process  of  simmering,  stirring  and  straining  the  soup,  to  belabor  the 
metaphor,  constitutes  the  charrette.  The  concept  of  a  mess  is  particularly  evocative  in  describing  the 
non-linear,  interdisciplinary,  chaotic  regimes  characteristic  of  urban  design  conditions.  Charrette 
efforts  such  as  these  discussed  here  can  be  frustrating  if  they  are  seen  as  problem-solving  strategies 
rather  than  problem-defining. 

There  are  in  my  view  two  significant  legacies  of  these  efforts,  both  deriving  from  the  edu¬ 
cational  mission  of  the  charrettes.  The  first  legacy  is  the  value  of  intergenerational,  cross-disciplinary 
collaboration,  a  premise  which  is  embodied  in  the  Washington  Area  Architect  Group.  The  second  is 
the  educational  value  of  the  experience  for  once  and  future  designers,  planners,  urbanists  and  oth¬ 
ers,  of  being  immersed  in  a  complex  mess  with  a  group  of  strangers.  This  was  a  truly  multi-disci¬ 
plinary  process  which  welcomed  not  only  current  professionals  but  retirees  and  citizen-activist  with  a 
history  of  community  involvement.  A  seminar/charrette  such  as  the  Portal  Site  Charrette  really  has 
two  lives;  its  potentials  and  its  problems  arise  from  this  duality.  On  the  one  hand,  it  is  an  educational 
experience  for  the  individual;  on  the  other,  it  is  a  public  event  devoted  to  a  significant  urban  prob¬ 
lem.  The  actual  resulting  design  proposals,  remain  as  memories,  alternate  futures,  potentials  .  .  .  But, 
the  fact  that  we  cure  here  talking  about  urban  issues  through  the  lens  of  these  charrettes  indicates 
that  their  educational  value  has  not  yet  been  exhausted. 


10 


FROM  GENERIC  ISSUES  TO  SPECULATIVE  VISIONS: 
URBAN  DESIGN  CHARRETTES  IN  WASHINGTON,  D.C., 
THE  PORTAL  AND  KING  STREET  METRO  SITES 

Gregory  K  Hunt 


The  eight  urban  design  charrettes  that  took  place  in  Washington,  D.C.,  from  1982  to  1989  dif¬ 
fered  in  their  locations,  issues,  and  scope,  yet  each  followed  an  overall  three-part  structure  enabling 
participants  (a)  to  focus  on  the  major  design  issues  associated  with  each  site;  (b)  to  produce 
informed  collaboratively-prepared  design  proposals;  and  (c)  to  participate  in  a  critique  of  these  pro¬ 
posals  in  a  meaningful  professional  forum.  In  turn  each  aspect  of  this  structure  was  carefully 
planned  to  be  an  integral  facet  of  a  total  learning  experience  for  all  charrette  participants — an  expe¬ 
rience  that  promoted  the  creative  interdependence  of  collaborative  thought  and  design. 

The  significant  urban  design  issues  associated  with  each  selected  project  site  were  initially  iden¬ 
tified  through  discussions  with  a  number  of  program  consultants  and  planning  agencies,  along  with 
extensive  site  analysis.  These  major  issues  were  then  translated  into  a  series  of  charrette  objectives 
which  served  as  the  basis  for  the  generation  of  the  design  proposals  prepared  by  each  team. 

The  King  Street  Metro  Area  charrette  held  in  Alexandria,  Virginia,  in  1983  investigated  one  of 
the  more  complex  urban  design  issues  of  the  modern  city:  the  impact  of  a  contemporary  mass-tran¬ 
sit  system  on  the  outlying  areas  of  an  urban  center.  As  the  modern  counterpart  of  the  rail  and  street¬ 
car  systems  that  so  significantly  extended  the  American  city  during  the  nineteenth  century,  the 
construction  of  present-day  mass-transit  lines  tends  to  impact  urban  areas  with  even  greater  scale  and 
density  of  development.  When  the  development  that  inevitably  accompanies  the  construction  of  new 
and/or  extended  urban  transit  lines  in  city  centers  and  peripheral  areas  is  based  principally  on  the 
primacy  of  urban  land  economics,  short-term,  speculative  financial  gain  often  rules.  If,  on  the  other 
hand,  these  developments  are  viewed  as  major  design  initiatives  that  can  play  an  important  role  in 
expanding  the  public  realm  of  our  cities  while  fostering  private  investment,  long-term  planning  strate¬ 
gies  focusing  on  larger  urban  design  objectives  must  prevail. 

Washington’s  Metropolitan  Area  Metrorail  system  represented  (and  still  represents)  a  major 
investment  in  urban  infrastructure,  and  it  is  considered  by  many  to  be  one  of  the  most  significant 
public  works  in  the  country.  Having  been  planned  as  an  efficient  means  of  transportation,  but  also 
designed  and  built  with  a  notable  design  eloquence  befitting  such  an  important  means  of  public 
transport,  how  might  such  an  urban  intervention  affect  specific  locations  along  its  route?  How  might 
a  city  deal  with  development  controls  in  the  areas  immediately  surrounding  the  Metrorail  stations? 
What  appropriate  design  visions  might  such  construction  generate?  It  was  these  and  similar  generic 
questions  related  to  contemporary  mass-transit  systems  that  the  King  Street  Metro  Area  charrette  was 
undertaken. 

The  area  surrounding  Alexandria’s  then  recently-completed  Metro  station — an  elevated  struc¬ 
ture  positioned  at  the  west  end  of  King  Street,  the  city’s  major  east-west  axis — was  selected  as  an 
appropriate  site  to  explore  ways  by  which  one  Metrorail  station  in  the  system  could  serve  as  a  catalyst 
for  urban  revitalization.  More  specifically,  design  teams  were  asked  to  prepare  conceptual  design 
proposals  for  a  project  area  of  approximately  forty  acres,  with  an  emphasis  on  mixed-use  develop¬ 
ment,  including  provision  for  new  higher  density  housing,  office,  and  retail  space  near  the  Metro  sta¬ 
tion.  Given  the  scale  of  buildings  on  the  neighboring  blocks,  proposals  also  had  to  consider  the 
height,  massing,  and  overall  architectural  character  of  any  new  development,  as  well  as  the  impact  of 
increased  traffic  circulation  and  the  need  for  the  clear,  accessible  pedestrian  routes  to  the  station 
itself.  It  was  also  suggested  that  teams  investigate  the  use  of  air  rights  over  the  adjacent  Richmond, 
Fredericksburg  and  Potomac/Metrorail  tracks  as  a  possible  development  strategy — one  that  recog¬ 
nizes  the  potential  value  of  such  rights-of-way  as  viable  building  sites.  Although  the  teams  were  asked 
to  include  the  entire  area  in  their  preliminary  assessment,  each  was  free  to  choose  the  scope,  con- 


11 


tent,  and  physical  context  of  their  proposals  due  to  the  short  time  available  for  the  charrette  itself. 

The  Portal  Site  charrette  of  1984,  on  the  other  hand,  examined  two  general  urban  conditions 
that  characterize  many  American  cities:  the  “urban  leftover”  and  the  “urban  gateway”.  Urban  left¬ 
overs — those  areas  of  the  city  that  are  characteristically  isolated,  under-utilized  areas  usually  caused 
by  myopic  land  planning  efforts — are  usually  circumstantial  and  unintended,  not  purposeful  and 
desired.  From  those  areas  circumscribed  by  the  complex  highway  cloverleafs  to  the  remote  urban 
parcels  isolated  by  on-grade  highway  construction  or  railroad  lines,  urban  leftovers  frequently  exist 
as  the  remote  and  often  forgotten  offspring  of  transportation  infrastructure. 

As  such,  they  may  occupy  important  sites  within  the  city  and  may  thus  possess  high  develop¬ 
ment  potential.  In  size,  these  properties  may  range  from  the  small  triangular  parcels  resulting  from 
the  intersection  of  three  streets  to  entire  waterfront  areas  removed  from  more  active  urban  land 
areas  by  intervening  interstate  highways.  The  configuration  and  character  of  the  Portal  Site,  for 
example,  was  the  result  of  short-term  planning  decisions  involving  highway  routes  and  railroad 
rights-of-way.  Split  by  an  active  Conrail  line  that  aligns  with  the  extended  axis  of  Maryland  Avenue 
and  cut  off  from  the  Washington  Channel  by  major  roadways,  this  approximately  ten-acre  land  par¬ 
cel  represented  a  major  “urban  leftover”  that  languished  in  persistent  underdevelopment  and  isola¬ 
tion. 

Given  its  position  at  one  of  the  major  vehicular  entrances  to  Washington’s  Monumental  Core, 
this  site  also  represented  a  major  “urban  gateway”  along  Fourteenth  Street  (hence  the  name  “Portal 
Site”) .  Although  today’s  gateways  are  not  as  symbolically  meaningful  as  were  the  triumphal  arches  of 
ancient  Rome  (when  they  honored  imperial  visits  or  passage),  they  may  still  serve  an  important  role 
in  contemporary  civic  design.  When  viewed  as  places  in  which  one  is  physically  introduced  to  a  city, 
these  points  of  entry  function  as  key  places  of  orientation.  They  may,  therefore,  be  considered  as 
“urban  thresholds,”  both  upon  arrival  and  departure,  and  they  are  thus  capable  of  performing  a  pri¬ 
mary  function  in  the  choreography  of  urban  vehicular  movement.  Even  for  the  daily  commuter  who 
experiences  these  points  from  the  isolation  of  the  moving  automobile,  urban  gateways  can  act  as 
“welcoming  zones” — and  when  they  exhibit  the  aspects  of  “visibility,  coherence,  and  clarity”  that 
Kevin  Lynch  associates  with  the  idea  of  the  “imageable  landscape”,  their  contribution  to  good  city 
form  is  reaffirmed. 

Because  the  Portal  Site  represented  both  the  “urban  leftover”  and  the  “urban  gateway,”  char¬ 
rette  participants  were  confronted  with  a  number  of  varied,  but  interrelated,  issues.  In  addition  to 
examining  ways  to  improve  accessibility  to  this  large,  essentially  inactive  land  parcel  while  trans¬ 
forming  it  into  a  site  supporting  a  high  density  of  mixed-use  development,  design  teams  were  also 
required  to  study  ways  in  which  to  enhance  the  Maryland  Avenue  vista  extending  from  the  Capitol  to 
the  nearby  Jefferson  Memorial.  The  charrette  also  necessitated  consideration  of  the  active  role  of  an 
urban  gateway  at  this  strategically-positioned  entrance  to  the  city. 

Both  the  King  Street  Metro  Area  Site  and  the  Portal  Site  were  characterized  by  urban  design 
issues  which,  in  their  identifiable  commonalities,  could  only  be  termed  “generic.”  Based  on  an 
understanding  of  these  broader  concerns  of  contemporary  urbanism,  participating  design  charrette 
teams  would  then  generate  specific  design  proposals  related  to  local  physical,  economic,  political, 
and  social  factors.  Both  charrette  study  areas  thus  represented  fertile  ground  for  thoughtful  urban 
design  explorations. 

In  order  to  initially  expose  charrette  participants  to  the  urban  design  issues  (both  general  and 
particular)  associated  with  each  site,  nationally  and  internationally  recognized  architects,  educators, 
planners,  landscape  architects,  and  authors  were  invited  to  give  a  series  of  introductory  lectures  at 
the  Smithsonian  Institution.  These  preliminary  lectures  often  discussed  relevant  historical,  eco¬ 
nomic,  legal,  financial,  zoning,  and  political  concerns  and  were  thus  descriptive  and/or  analytical  in 
nature;  others,  however,  questioned  conventional  approaches  and  provoked  thoughts  of  new  urban 
visions.  With  speakers  that  included  Edmund  Bacon,  Alvin  Boyarsky,  Joseph  Brown,  Robert  Camp¬ 
bell,  M.  Paul  Friedberg,  Eugene  Kohn,  Kevin  Lynch,  Joseph  Passonneau,  and  Raquel  Ramati,  among 
others,  this  phase  of  the  charrette  structure  generated  a  number  of  diverse  observations  and  per- 


12 


spectives,  and  it  played  a  very  important  role  in  establishing  a  conceptual  framework  within  which 
subsequent  design  proposals  could  then  be  produced.  In  addition,  each  charrette  included  prefa¬ 
tory  panel  discussions  at  which  additional  viewpoints  were  presented  by  representatives  of  city  gov¬ 
ernment,  planning  and  community  development  agencies,  and  developers.  Held  at  the  American 
Institute  of  Architects  national  headquarters,  these  sessions  gave  all  participants  the  opportunity  to 
become  more  acquainted  with  the  complex  forces  associated  with  the  actual  development  of  these 
particular  urban  parcels.  Citizen  town  meetings  were  also  organized  as  an  integral  part  of  some  char- 
rettes.  These  information  sessions  brought  together  community  members  and  elected  and  govern¬ 
ment  officials  to  discuss  specific  goals  for  the  design  and  revitalization  of  certain  study  sites. 

Collective  design  always  requires  adroit  stewardship  to  achieve  any  meaningful  common  prod¬ 
uct.  For  these  charrettes,  recognized  design  professionals  were  invited  to  come  to  Washington  to 
produce  exploratory  design  proposals  working  with  teams  of  registered  architects,  landscape  archi¬ 
tects,  planners,  students,  and  lay  people  interested  in  urban  design  and  architecture.  Team  leaders 
for  the  King  Street  Metro  Area  charrette  included  Peter  Bohlin  (Philadelphia),  Peter  Cook  (Lon¬ 
don),  Louis  Sauer  (Pittsburgh),  and  Taft  Architects  (Robert  Time,  Danny  Samuels,  and  John  Casbar- 
ian,  Houston),  among  others;  team  leaders  participating  in  the  Portal  Site  charrette  included  Gerald 
Allen  (New  York),  Ulrich  Franzen  (New  York),  Donlyn  Lyndon  (Berkeley),  Laurie  Olin  (Philadel¬ 
phia),  Antoine  Predock  (Albuquerque),  Peter  Roland  (Rye),  and  Susanna  Torre  (New  York). 

Since  charrette  teams  consisted  of  ten  to  sixteen  individuals  of  diverse  background,  age,  educa¬ 
tion,  professional  experience,  and  design  expertise,  most  team  leaders  invariably  orchestrated  the 
generation  and  production  of  their  team’s  designs  by  quickly  establishing  an  educational  atmo¬ 
sphere  involving  joint  participation  and  fertile  discussions  of  design  ideas.  Assisting  the  various  team 
leaders  were  faculty  members  from  area  schools  of  architecture  who  served  as  assistant  team  leaders 
and  organized  team  site  visits,  photographic  documentation  and  overall  graphic  production  during 
the  two-day  weekend  charrette.  Given  that  nearly  all  team  leaders  were  also  educators  and  were 
joined  by  faculty,  team  members  worked  within  a  stimulating  “educational”  environment  wherein 
conceptual  urban  design  ideas  were  developed  in  accordance  with  pragmatic  frameworks  established 
by  zoning  ordinances,  development  policies,  contextual  constraints,  etc. 

Within  an  intensive  eight-hour  period  (some  charrettes  extended  over  a  twelve-hour  period), 
individual  teams  produced  design  proposals  that  most  frequendy  included  analytic  drawings,  master 
plans,  site  sections,  and  perspective  views.  Although  these  group  efforts  usually  resulted  in  “broad¬ 
brush”  designs  owing  to  the  very  compressed  time  schedule  of  the  charrette  itself,  more  detailed 
schematic  building  designs  and  sections  occasionally  emerged  from  these  exercises  in  collaborative 
creativity. 

From  the  poetic  use  of  water  as  a  primary  urban  amenity  in  the  King  Street  Metro  area  pro¬ 
posed  by  the  Cook/Hawley  team  and  Taft  Architects’  terraced  design  for  integrating  the  raised 
Metro  station  with  the  city  floor  to  Antoine  Predock’s  ideas  for  including  large  areas  of  varied 
regional  plantings  along  the  extensive  verdant  balconies  of  his  terraced  housing  and  Allen/Ollin’s 
and  Lyndon/Griffith’s  schemes  for  a  major  public  square  proposed  for  the  Portal  Site,  teams  pro¬ 
duced  designs  that  exemplified  the  full  range  of  design  inquiry  that  is  possible  in  such  a  two-day 
design  charrette.  Energized  by  group  dynamics  and  capitalizing  on  their  disparate  design  and 
graphic  presentation  talents,  team  leaders,  assistants,  and  members  pursued  their  respective  urban 
design  explorations  with  creative  agility,  enthusiasm,  and  professional  commitment. 

When  completed,  the  design  proposals  were  presented  by  the  team  leaders  and  then  critiqued 
by  a  panel  of  architects,  educators,  and  journalists  (Peter  Blake,  Donald  Canty,  Colden  Florance, 
Benjamin  Forgey,  Francis  Lethbridge,  Joseph  Passonneau,  Wolf  von  Eckardt,  and  Randall  Vosbeck, 
among  others,  participated  in  these  two  charrettes) .  This  particular  phase  of  the  program  often  gen¬ 
erated  spirited  discussion  and  debate,  as  it  focused  on  the  primary  issues  associated  with  each  project 
site  and  their  resolution  in  the  design  proposals  generated  by  the  various  charrette  teams. 

These  urban  design  charrettes  were  optimistic  endeavors  conceived  and  implemented  to 
inform,  enlighten,  and  enthuse.  From  the  introductory  lectures  to  the  preparation  of  the  design 


13 


proposals  and  the  final  critique,  each  program  was  intended  to  provide  a  unique  educational  experi¬ 
ence  for  all  participants.  By  presenting  and  exploring  a  wide  range  of  practical  and  theoretical 
aspects  of  urban  design,  they  investigated  the  appropriateness  of  fundamental  principles  and  the 
promise  of  the  speculative  idea.  Finally,  these  structured  exercises  in  collaborative  design  sought  to 
elicit  meaningful  urban  proposals  wherein  the  resolutions  of  pragmatic  needs  were  always  guided  by 
a  poetic  vision — the  kind  of  vision  that  is  clearly  required  if  the  contemporary  city  is  to  once  again 
possess  meaningful  civic  spaces  that  truly  serve  the  public  realm. 


14 


THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  INTERDISCIPLINARY  TEAM  WORK 


Charles  B.  Zucker 


A  growing  need  exists  for  interdisciplinary  problem-solving  approaches  to  help  weed  through 
complex  urban  problems.  The  vision  of  public  agencies,  isolated  in  separate  offices  and  rarely  talk¬ 
ing  to  one  another,  producing  plans  that  reduce  citizen  input  to  formal  public  hearings  is  giving  way 
to  a  collaborative  process  that  mirrors  organizational  management  trends  in  private  industry.  This 
change  is  not  happening  easily  although  its  results  can  be  seen  in  cities  as  diverse  as  San  Francisco, 
Houston,  and  Chattanooga.  The  catalyst  for  this  change  comes  from  a  number  of  sources  and  is 
often  driven  by  architects  and  urban  design  professionals  working  locally. 

Trend  Toward  Strategic  Planning 

Nearly  every  city  and  town  is  engaged  in  one  or  more  strategic  planning  efforts  at  the  local, 
county,  or  state  levels.  For  example,  the  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development’s  Consoli¬ 
dated  Strategic  Planning  Process,  and  its  Empowerment  Zone/Enterprise  Community  program; 
Department  of  Transportation’s  Intermodal  Surface  Transportation  Efficiency  Act  (ISTEA)  process; 
Department  of  Defense’s  base  closing  process;  and  Department  of  Energy’s  Disaster  Relief  Planning; 
require  communities  to  produce  a  strategic  plan  of  some  form.  Strategic  planning  is  also  gaining 
favor  in  Community  Reinvestment  Act  (CRA)  and  Economic  Development  Administration  (EDA) 
activities  as  well  as  local  comprehensive  planning  activities.  In  most  cases  the  strategic  planning  pro¬ 
cess  requires  that  a  partnership  be  formed  among  public,  private,  and  nonprofit  sectors.  Communi¬ 
ties  such  as  Louisville,  New  Haven,  Kansas  City,  and  Seattle,  among  numerous  others,  are  engaging 
architects  and  planners  to  facilitate  interdisciplinary  “visioning”  programs  that  are  a  basis  for  the 
development  of  strategic  plans. 

Trend  Toward  Interactive  Citizen  Participation — Planning  with  People,  not  for  People 

Governmental  planning  guidelines  have  increasingly  emphasized  the  need  for  citizen  participa¬ 
tion  throughout  the  entire  planning  process,  not  only  at  the  beginning  and  end.  Citizens  have  become 
powerful  advocates  expertly  using  planning  data  and  community  organizing  to  monitor  and  change 
public  policy.  Their  demand  for  ongoing  participation  has  dramatically  changed  the  way  in  which 
cities  schedule  and  manage  their  planning  programs.  Interdisciplinary  techniques  are  proving  to  be 
effective  tools  for  integrating  citizen  ideas  into  the  creative  planning  process,  as  well  as  the  monitor¬ 
ing  and  evaluation  process. 

Trend  Toward  “Designing”  the  Public  Decision-making  Process 

Matching  the  appropriate  interdisciplinary  planning  tool  to  the  local  issues  and  conditions  is  a 
design  problem  in  itself.  Not  all  techniques  apply  to  all  community  situations.  For  example,  although 
the  concept  is  to  work  intensely  under  a  tight  time-frame,  a  design  “charrette”  requires  careful  pro¬ 
cess  planning  and  implementation.  The  process  design  is  critical  in  determining  how  citizens  par¬ 
ticipate  and  who  “owns”  ideas  and  recommendations.  It  is  also  important  in  determining  the 
interdisciplinary  nature  of  the  charrette  team  members.  Some  charrettes  are  single  purpose  activi¬ 
ties,  while  others  can  address  a  variety  of  issues  at  one  time.  Although  a  charrette  can  be  altered  to  fit 
most  local  situations,  they  generally  fall  into  four  broad  categories: 

Educational  Charrettes.  Educational  charrettes  can  last  from  one-day  to  several  weeks.  In  general, 
they  address  a  well  defined  architectural  or  urban  design  problem  resulting  in  schematic,  illustrated 
ideas.  The  process  usually  incorporates  a  university  architecture  design  class  and  instructors.  Such 


15 


programs  often  include  community  participation  and  serve  community  issues.  They  are  often  tied  to 
an  academic  calendar  and  student  resources. 

Leadership  Forums,  Retreats,  Focus  Group.  A  one-  or  two-day  forum  for  citizen  activists,  elected  lead¬ 
ers,  and  nonprofit  developers,  among  others,  can  be  a  useful  tool  to  help  local  leaders  define  prob¬ 
lems,  list  issues,  and  test  alternative  strategies  in  an  informal  setting.  Such  programs  have  been 
implemented  as  a  series  of  events  lasting  several  months. 

Traditional  Problem-Solving  Charrettes.  A  traditional  design  charrette  is  a  one-  or  two-day  program, 
although  they  may  run  from  four  days  to  two  weeks,  that  focuses  on  a  clearly  defined  problem  and 
specific  solutions  produced  by  practicing  professionals.  Results  usually  include  a  design  plan  for  a 
specific  building  such  as  a  homeless  shelter,  a  streetscape  or  urban  park,  or  a  multiple-building  proj¬ 
ect  on  a  defined  site.  Such  programs  are  often  invited  by  citizens  who  participate  in  the  overall  pro¬ 
cess. 

Interdisciplinary  Team  Charrette.  An  interdisciplinary  team  process  takes  a  holistic  approach  to 
community  issues  and  emphasizes  citizen  participation  during  an  intense  three-  to  four-day  process. 
Teams  of  8  to  12  practicing  professionals  are  drawn  from  the  disciplines  of  economic  development, 
public  works  and  infrastructure,  industrial  development,  land  use  law,  real  estate  development,  trans¬ 
portation  planning,  public  policy  and  management,  private  and  public  finance,  sustainable  develop¬ 
ment,  and  architecture  and  urban  design  among  others.  Teams  address  micro  and  macro  issues  such 
as  economic  development,  affordable  housing,  neighborhood  crime,  and  transportation. 

Trend  Toward  Neighborhood  Design  and  Design  Quality 

Interdisciplinary  problem-solving  techniques  allow  communities  to  integrate  solutions  at  the 
scale  of  the  neighborhood — the  next  most  important  social  building  block  outside  the  home.  It  is  at 
the  neighborhood  scale  that  many  of  America’s  urban  ills  can  best  be  addressed.  For  example,  most 
successful  low-income  housing  providers  and  activists  understand  that  low-income  housing  delivered  on  a 
project-by-project  basis,  without  regard  for  neighborhood-wide  planning  and  quality  design,  can  perpetuate  poverty, 
prolong  blight,  and  provide  little  incentive  for  increasing  equity  and  value. 

Interdisciplinary  approaches  to  neighborhood  design  may  have  other  far  reaching  effects  such 
as  increasing  home  ownership,  especially  in  high-risk  areas.  When  one  project  after  another  fails  to 
mandate  design  quality  as  an  investment  condition,  the  result  is  an  area  of  limited  collateral  with  lit¬ 
tle  potential  for  adding  value.  Such  areas  become  a  collection  of  undesirable  properties  with  too  lit¬ 
tle  value  to  leverage  loans.  Because  home  ownership  most  often  becomes  possible  due  to 
government  tax  policies  and  commercial  loan  policies,  it  could  be  said  that  home-ownership  levels 
could  be  increased  if  greater  attention  was  paid  by  these  institutions  to  the  issue  of  quality  control  in 
the  design  and  development  of  projects  and  neighborhoods. 

Trend  Toward  Making  Connections  and  Mixed-use  Neighborhoods 

Interdisciplinary  problem-solving  allows  communities  to  make  connections  among  diverse 
issues  that  would  otherwise  be  impossible  to  make  within  the  confines  of  traditional  city  planning. 
This  idea  has  recently  been  discussed  in  a  book  produced  by  HUD  in  partnership  with  the  AIA,  and 
the  American  Planning  Association  among  others.  Entitled  Vision /Reality:  Strategies  for  Community 
Change,  the  book  makes  a  case  for 

.  .  reestablishing  lost  connections  between  people;  connections  within  com¬ 
munities;  connections  across  neighborhoods,  cities  and  regions;  and  connec¬ 
tions  among  formerly  unrelated  government  programs.  It  is  about  supporting 
individuals  by  supporting  their  communities  and  integrating  the  wide  range  of 
services  that  reinforce  a  sense  of  community.  These  connections  must  be 
grounded  in  neighborhoods  that  nurture  cultural  diversity  and  regional  links 


16 


while  maintaining  local  character  and  human  scale...  The  idea  is  to  invest  in 
neighborhoods  and  people,  rather  than  in  programs  and  institutions  ...  At  the 
heart  of  these  concepts  is  Neighborhood  and  Community;  it  is  the  place  and  the 
scale  at  which  the  other  three  organizing  principles — Human  Scale  and  Human 
Development;  Diversity  and  Balance;  and,  Sustainability,  Conservation,  and 
Restoration — take  on  meaning  and  social  power.” 

The  book  offers  four  organizing  principles  as  a  basis  for  creating  a  community’s  vision  of  its 
future  through  the  integration  of  economic,  social,  and  physical  development  activities.  Following 
are  excerpts: 

Neighborhood  and  Community.  Communities  are  defined  in  social  and  cultural  terms,  creating  ties 
that  support  individuals  and  families  while  encouraging  personal  responsibility.  Neighborhoods  are 
defined  in  physical  terms.  One  can  live  in  a  strong  community  without  living  in  a  neighborhood  and 
vice  versa.  A  principle  of  successful  development  is  to  bring  the  two  together  and  make  them  mutu¬ 
ally  supportive. 

Diversity  and  Balance.  Diversity  as  a  key  concept  for  creating  resilient  economies  and  rich  local 
cultures.  Heterogeneous  communities  have  qualities  that  can  generate  opportunities  for  individuals 
and  families.  For  example,  urban  designers  through  interdisciplinary  programs  can  illustrate  that 
balance — providing  a  mix  of  facility  types,  ownership  opportunities,  and  costs  for  a  diverse  popula¬ 
tion  gives  neighborhoods  the  ability  to  attract  newcomers  and  retain  traditional  residents. 

Human  Development  and  Human  Scale.  The  individual  and  the  family — not  remote  institutions  or 
government — are  the  measure  of  community.  A  sound  urban  strategy  should  seek  to  establish 
human  scale  in  the  physical  design  of  neighborhoods,  in  economies  by  enhancing  local  businesses, 
and  in  institutions  by  decentralizing  and  personalizing  services.  The  focus  on  human  development 
and  human  scale  represents  a  shift  away  from  top-down  social  programs,  from  characterless  housing 
projects,  and  from  remote  institutions.  This  shift  is  central  to  the  idea  of  effective  planning,  because 
only  when  programs  are  scaled  to  the  individual  and  neighborhood  can  they  be  integrated  easily. 

Sustainability,  Conservation,  and  Restoration.  The  fourth  and  by  no  means  least  important  of  the 
organizing  principles  is  the  ability  of  neighborhoods  and  communities  to  build  on  their  existing 
assets  and  opportunities  and,  through  this  process,  perpetuate  their  renewal  into  the  future.  The 
concepts  of  sustainability,  conservation,  and  restoration  must  be  integrated  and  applied  to  the  built 
environment  as  well  as  to  the  natural  environment;  to  building  stock  as  well  as  to  neighborhood  insti¬ 
tutions;  to  human  resources  as  well  as  to  human  history;  to  job  development  and  retention;  and  to 
creeks  and  bays  as  well  as  to  energy  and  materials. 

Ideas  for  Advancing  Interdisciplinary  Problem-solving  Strategies 

As  federal  efforts  tend  to  shift  toward  block  granting  programs  and  state  and  local  flexibility, 
greater  emphasis  will  be  placed  on  the  private  sector’s  ability  to  compete  for  dollars  that  will  be  dis¬ 
pensed  by  low-  and  moderate-income  people  through,  for  example,  housing  vouchers  and  education 
vouchers.  In  this  new  political  environment,  linking  issues  that  interconnect  economic,  social,  and 
physical  development  activities  at  the  community  and  neighborhood  scale  will  become  ever  more 
critical.  Following  are  four  issue  areas  that  create  opportunities  for  interdisciplinary  strategies: 

Link  urban  design  and  economic  development.  We  need  to  focus  interdisciplinary  strategies  on  the 
issues  that  drive  public  policy,  not  only  the  internal  issues  that  drive  the  architecture  and  urban 
design  profession.  For  example,  we  need  to  better  understand  the  relationship  of  neighborhood 
design  to  job  creation,  municipal  operations,  marketplace  competitiveness,  and  growth  and  decline 
in  the  local  tax  base,  among  other  issues. 

Link  regional  and  neighborhood  places  and  economies.  Hard  data  is  needed  that  demonstrates  the 
relationship  between  the  physical  form  of  regions  and  the  physical  form  of  neighborhood-scale  eco¬ 
nomic  and  social  development,  especially  in  underserved  areas. 


17 


Link  urban  design  and  the  need  to  plan  with  people  not  for  people.  Practical  examples  would  be  useful 
that  illustrate  how  interdisciplinary  approaches  improve  collaboration  and  consensus  within  and 
between  the  public,  private,  and  nonprofit  sectors. 

Link  urban  design  and  the  need  to  visualize  results.  Demonstrations  are  needed  that  use  computer 
based  visual  illustrations  and  mapping  techniques  for  creative  planning  and  design  activities  as  well  as 
for  statistical  analysis  and  monitoring  activities. 

Conclusion 

In  a  recently  published  book  by  HUD  entitled  Cityscape:  A  Journal  of  Policy  Development  and 
Research,  several  papers  describe  an  apparent  public  policy  dilemma  over  placed-based  revitalization 
strategies  versus  people-based  revitalization  strategies.  Place-based  strategies  favor  “.  .  .  providing 
neighborhoods  with  life  support .  .  .  [based  on]  the  premise  that  urban  communities  should  be  pre¬ 
served  as  viable  places  to  live  and  work.”  And,  people-based  strategies  favor  helping  “. . .  those  threat¬ 
ened  with  social  isolation  or  displacement  [to]  relocate,  upgrade  their  skills,  and  so  on,  and  allowing 
market-oriented  competition  among  places  to  determine  the  winners  and  losers.” 

While  these  strategies  are  not  exclusive  of  one  another,  the  dichotomy  tends  to  separate  the 
issues  and  thus  the  solutions.  When  taken  together,  however,  they  offer  a  profound  challenge  for 
urban  designers,  and  those  of  us  who  support  interdisciplinary  problem-solving:  To  what  degree 
does  the  quality  of  our  neighborhood  and  project  designs  help  or  hinder  opportunities  for  low- 
income  people  to  make  their  own  economic  and  social  choices  about  where  they  live  and  work? 

One  answer  is  that  without  interdisciplinary  collaborative  citizen-based  problem  solving,  we  may 
never  find  out.  For  example,  an  argument  that  has  been  made  is  that  by  not  connecting  neighbor¬ 
hood  quality  issues  such  as  appearance  and  walkability  with  access  to  jobs,  shops,  and  schools,  the 
public  sector  limits  its  ability  to  leverage  private  investments.  Further,  without  such  quality  control, 
the  investment  risk  that  is  contained  in  middle-  and  upper-income  communities  cannot  be  similarly 
contained  in  low-income  communities.  Often  the  reply  to  this  argument  is  “prove  it.” 

There  are  certain  things  we  know:  For  example,  in  many  communities  residents  and  newcom¬ 
ers  seeking  modest  wage  jobs  that  are  critical  to  a  healthy  regional  economy  are  often  unable  to  find 
suitable  housing  at  prices  they  can  afford  within  reasonable  access  to  work.  On  this  point,  a  report, 
Jobs  and  Housing:  The  Dual  Crisis,  published  by  the  Greater  Washington  Research  Center  in  Washing¬ 
ton,  D.C.,  warns: 

“The  shortage  of  affordable  housing  is  of  concern  not  only  for  charitable  rea¬ 
sons.  It  is  not  merely  an  abstract  group  called  the  poor  who  are  hurt.  We  must 
now  be  concerned  for  the  entire  community  .  .  .  The  growing  shortage  of  low- 
income  housing  has  unmistakably  been  joined  by  a  growing  shortage  of  hous¬ 
ing  for  the  moderate-income  newcomers  on  whom  the  future  vitality  of  the 
region’s  economy  is  heavily  dependent.” 

We  also  know  that  urban  designers  and  architects  have  applied  their  interdisciplinary  problem¬ 
solving  talents  to  these  issues  and  produced  creative  ideas  that  blend  livable  environments  and  work 
places  in  neighborhoods  in  which  people  desire  to  live  rather  than  feel  compelled  to  live.  For  exam¬ 
ple,  I  would  like  to  quote  an  American  architect,  Michael  Pyatok,  AIA,  who  has  implemented  a  num¬ 
ber  of  creative  solutions  while  working  in  low-income  areas: 

“Creatively  reintegrating  manufacturing  and  related  uses  into  our  cities,  educa¬ 
tional  institutions,  residential  neighborhoods,  and  dwellings  themselves,  which 
the  middle  classes  and  their  professionals  see  as  grungy  and  ‘polluting,’  is  a  key 
to  the  economic  development  of  the  underclasses.  This  approach  has  a  some¬ 
what  different  agenda  than  simply  re-establishing  the  defensibly  correct  and 


18 


quaint  character  of  sanitized,  neo-traditional  neighborhoods  and  streetscapes, 
linked  by  light  rail,  which  have  politically  correct  densities  above  appropriate 
retail  and  offices.  The  concepts  of  appropriate  ‘mixed-use’  and  ‘diversity’  can 
generate  very  different  images  of  the  cityscape  depending  upon  which  class 
interest  is  using  the  term.” 

Such  “bootstrap”  neighborhood  ideas  are  not  new,  but  they  are  innovative  and  controversial 
even  by  today’s  standards.  The  challenge  for  urban  designers,  architects,  landscape  architects,  plan¬ 
ners,  and  allied  professionals,  is  to  address  the  quality  of  the  environment  in  terms  that  are  mean¬ 
ingful  in  the  public  policy  arena — to  create  bridges  among  professional  disciplines,  to  make 
connections  between  solutions,  and  to  link  the  quality  of  the  environment  to  economic  and  social 
development  concerns.  We  know  that  what  works  in  public  policy  debates  at  the  national  level  are 
success  stories  at  the  local  level.  If  architects  and  urban  designers  are  to  remain  relevant  in  national 
legislative,  regulatory,  and  public  advocacy  efforts  they  need  to  demonstrate  how  their  efforts  make  a 
difference  locally  and  they  need  to  communicate  their  success. 

Postscript 

Interdisciplinary  design  assistance  teams  can  be  managed  locally,  through  AIA  chapters,  or  they 
can  be  national  programs  such  as  the  American  Institute  of  Architects  Regional/Urban  Design  Assis¬ 
tance  Team  Program  (R/UDAT) .  Other  national  organizations  conducting  similar  programs  include 
the  Urban  Land  Institute,  the  American  Society  of  Landscape  Architects,  the  American  Planning 
Association,  Partners  for  Livable  Communities,  and  the  International  Downtown  Association.  A 
number  of  urban  design  professional  firms,  universities,  and  community  design  centers  also  special¬ 
ize  in  such  charrette  process  techniques. 


19 


MEMORY  OF  THE  FUTURE 


David  Lewis 


A  Public  Meeting 

The  scene  is  a  public  meeting  in  a  mid-Western  town.  It  could  just  as  easily  have  been  in  any  city 
in  the  United  States,  mid-size  and  up.  The  subject  of  the  meeting  is  the  decline  of  the  downtown.  A 
peripheral  highway,  built  in  the  sixties,  has  spawned  this  town’s  version  of  all  those  things  we  know  so 
well  about  modern  urban  America,  suburban  estates  on  curving  roads  meandering  like  eels  into 
agriculture  land,  a  shopping  center  anchored  by  Sears  and  K-Mart,  and  strip  commercial  below  a  for¬ 
est  of  plastic  signs  on  poles. 

The  high  school  gymnasium  where  the  meeting  is  held  is  crowded.  The  Mayor  is  in  the  chair.  A 
local  historian  talks  about  the  historic  buildings  on  Main  Street,  particularly  the  Victorian  Gothic 
courthouse  which  closed  the  vista  at  the  northern  end  with  its  imposing  clock  tower  and  dome,  and 
the  old  department  store  at  the  southern  end,  abandoned  five  years  ago  and  inhabited  now  only  by 
flocks  of  pigeons  which  roost  in  its  elaborate  bracketed  eaves.  A  young  housewife,  married  to  a  local 
teacher,  talks  about  how  important  it  is  to  preserve  the  old  neighborhood  she  lives  in — a  privileged 
neighborhood  on  the  east  side — not  just  the  old  houses,  but  the  brick  sidewalks,  shade  trees, 
churches  and  the  school. 

Then  an  elderly  woman  gets  up  from  her  metal  chair.  She  clambers  across  knees  to  reach  the 
microphone.  She  is  clearly  unused  to  speaking  in  public.  When  she  was  a  little  girl,  she  tells  the 
meeting,  she  lived  in  the  same  neighborhood  as  the  teacher’s  wife.  But  her  mother  would  not  ever 
permit  the  children  to  go  to  Main  Street  unless  they  were  in  their  best  clothes.  In  those  days,  she 
says,  every  merchant  knew  her  mother’s  name  and  the  name  of  each  of  the  kids.  They  would  sweep 
their  bit  of  the  sidewalk  every  morning,  adjust  their  awnings,  and  polish  their  windows.  One  of  the 
shops  the  old  lady  focuses  on  particularly  seems  to  symbolize  all  the  others  in  her  mind,  Schinkel’s 
drug  store,  long  since  destroyed  in  a  fire,  but  located  right  there  on  the  corner  of  Main  and 
Sycamore  where  that  Texaco  station  is  now. 

“I  can  see  it  all  as  clear  as  yesterday,  just  as  it  was  seventy  years  ago.  On  a  hot  summer  afternoon 
my  mother  would  take  us  to  Mr.  Schinkel’s  soda  fountain,  and  we  would  sit  on  tall  wire-backed 
chairs,  and  under  my  hand  I  can  still  feel  the  cool  smooth  surface  of  the  marble  counter,  and  see  the 
mahogany  back  bar  and  how  we  would  play  hide  and  seek  with  our  reflections  between  its  rows  of 
polished  glasses,  and  the  terrazzo  floor  with  its  patterns  of  red  hibiscus  flowers,  and  my  o  my,  Mr. 
Schinkel  would  come  out  of  the  back  room  with  his  white  apron  on  and  make  us  the  best  ice  cream 
sodas  you’ve  ever  tasted.” 

A  middle-aged  African  American  tells  the  meeting  that  his  family  came  from  Tennessee  two 
generations  ago  to  work  in  the  flour  mill,  but  the  mill  has  closed  now  and  there  are  no  jobs  for  the 
young  people.  He  describes  how  debilitating  it  is  to  live  on  welfare,  and  how  dysfunctional  families 
are  the  threshold  to  drugs  and  gangs.  “We  need  to  find  ways  to  break  the  cycle  of  discrimination  and 
poverty.”  A  secretary  asks  for  more  police  downtown  because  downtown  is  separated  now  from  the 
neighborhoods  by  parking  lots,  and  since  “no  one  lives  downtown  any  more,  who  would  hear  me 
shout  for  help  if  I  were  to  be  accosted  on  the  way  to  my  car  after  working  late  on  a  winter’s  evening?” 

And  so  the  meeting  goes  on.  Issue  after  issue  comes  up.  Behind  the  mayor  are  three  young  peo¬ 
ple,  students  from  a  university  forty  miles  away,  who  record  the  issues  with  flow  pens  on  huge  sheets 
of  butcher  paper.  After  an  hour  and  a  half  and  many  speeches  the  mayor  calls  for  Task  Forces  to  be 
formed  to  work  on  groups  of  issues — historic  preservation,  inner  city  neighborhoods,  traffic  and 
parking,  alternative  futures  for  Main  Street,  and  employment. 


20 


Public  Meetings  Reinvent  Tradition 

Open  public  meetings  of  this  kind  have  been  held  in  cities  all  across  America  since  the  late  six¬ 
ties.  Town  meetings  are  an  old  tradition  in  New  England,  particularly  in  Vermont  and  New  Hamp¬ 
shire.  But  what  in  the  late  sixties  suddenly  made  town  meetings  a  prevalent  form  for  enfranchising 
citizens  in  cities  all  across  the  nation?  Two  events  were  of  critical  importance.  One  was  the  civil  rights 
movement,  particularly  the  urban  unrest  following  the  assassination  of  Martin  Luther  King.  The  sec¬ 
ond  was  the  Bicentennial,  when  America  discovered  that  it  too  had  history. 

These  two  events  may  seem  at  first  to  be  remote  from  one  another,  but  they  are  not.  The  civil 
rights  movement  had  at  its  core  a  militant  minority’s  insistence  on  democratic  rights  for  all  citizens, 
come  hell  or  high  water.  Combined  with  the  Bicentennial,  this  insistence  that  the  public  had  a 
democratic  right  to  organize  and  push  for  minority  agendas  encouraged  communities  and  neigh¬ 
borhoods  to  set  up  action  groups,  define  their  local  traditions,  and  become  articulate,  even  aggres¬ 
sive,  in  striving  for  common  goals. 

This  town  meeting  I  have  just  described  tells  us  a  number  of  things.  First  off,  why  would  the 
Mayor  call  a  public  meeting  at  all?  After  all,  does  he  not  have  a  staff  to  work  on  these  issues?  Was  he 
not  elected  to  be  strong  and  to  go  into  his  smoke-filled  back  room  and  make  decisions?  The  answer 
of  course  is  that  before  the  late  sixties,  mayoral  planning  powers  such  as  eminent  domain,  urban 
renewal,  and  public/private  partnerships,  were  far  more  concentrated  “behind  closed  doors”  than 
they  are  now,  and  mayors  rarely  enfranchised  citizens  in  open  public  meetings  to  elicit  opinions  on 
what  policies  to  pursue;  indeed  most  of  the  big  urban  renewal  programs  which  scare  so  many  of  our 
inner  cities  date  from  this  period.  But  after  the  late  sixties,  politics  at  the  local  level  changed,  and  city 
mayors  across  the  nation  were  wise  to  enfranchise  the  historians,  and  the  blacks,  the  folk  in  the 
neighborhoods,  and  the  previously  scorned  “litde  old  ladies  in  tennis  shoes.” 

At  first  it  was  not  easy.  My  partner,  Ray  Gindroz,  and  I  at  Urban  Design  Associates  first  at¬ 
tempted  to  involve  citizens  in  urban  designing  at  the  neighborhood  level  in  the  mid-sixties.  Unfortu¬ 
nately  we  were  a  bit  too  early.  Cities  at  that  time  were  still  not  prepared  to  delegate  centralized  power 
to  neighborhood  groups.  As  in  the  civil  rights  movement,  confrontation  was  sometimes  a  necessary 
tool — although  I  and  my  associates  did  not  go  along  this  route.  Some  citizen  action  groups  even 
studied  the  tactics  of  Alinsky.  “Power,”  the  saying  went,  “is  never  given.  It  has  to  be  seized.”  In  my  city, 
Pittsburgh,  a  neighborhood  group,  the  Shadyside  Action  Coalition,  employed  as  its  executive  direc¬ 
tor  a  planner  who  trained  under  Alinsky.  A  segment  of  the  planning  profession  called  itself  “advo¬ 
cate  planners.”  They  offered  services  nationwide  to  any  local  groups  wishing  to  develop  plans  in 
contrast  with  the  official  policies  of  the  city,  and  to  have  planning  professionals  at  their  side  to  pre¬ 
sent  their  cause  in  much  the  same  way  as  having  legal  representation. 

Charrettes 

It  soon  became  clear  that  confrontation  as  a  technique  had  more  drawbacks  than  advantages, 
and  that  consensus  building  was  more  rewarding.  Planning  processes  began  to  emerge  in  which 
elected  officials,  public  agencies,  the  private  sector,  and  citizens  could  meet  together  in  working  sesr 
sions,  to  hammer  out  differences  and  arrive  at  mutually  agreed  and  prioritized  public  policies,  com¬ 
plete  with  action-oriented  timetables.  To  us,  this  was  a  more  rewarding  direction.  It  defused 
confrontation,  and  infused  power-sharing  through  mutual  policy-making. 

Among  the  earliest  of  these  was  the  American  Institute  of  Architect’s  Regional/Urban  Design 
Assistance  Program  (R/UDAT),  which  started  in  1967.  Although  in  a  sense  R/UDATs  resembled 
advocate  planning,  I  was  attracted  to  it  because  the  program  was  designed  to  engage  the  city  as 
whole  rather  than  to  represent  one  group  or  interest.  A  volunteer  team  of  experts  drawn  from  vari¬ 
ous  disciplines  nationwide  would  visit  a  city  for  four  days,  meet  with  the  citizens,  government  and  the 
private  sector,  and  before  leaving  would  participate  in  an  open  public  meeting  and  issue  a  report 
containing  action-oriented  recommendations. 


21 


It  was  not  long  before  citizens  were  invited  to  become  more  direcdy  and  actively  involved  than 
they  were  under  the  R/UDAT  format.  In  Jim  Burns’  “Take  Part”  process  in  California,  citizens,  pro¬ 
fessionals,  and  representatives  of  public  agencies  worked  on  plans  at  the  same  table,  everyone  free  to 
talk  and  encouraged  to  draw.  Parallel  with  these  efforts,  Evan  Woollen  and  Jules  Gregory  opened 
storefront  studies  in  two  different  cities  and  engaged  passerby  to  participate  and  draw.  Although  at 
the  time,  we  at  Urban  Design  Associates  had  not  heard  of  “Take  Part,”  we  used  similar  processes  to 
involve  teachers  and  their  pupils  in  the  design  of  schools,  and  to  involve  citizens  and  public  agency 
people  in  urban  revitalization  projects. 

At  the  town  meeting  I  described  above,  the  Mayor  called  for  the  issues  and  ideas  brought  up  by 
the  citizens  to  be  grouped,  and  then  to  be  handed  over  to  Task  Forces.  Each  Task  Force  would  con¬ 
tain  citizens,  representatives  of  public  agencies,  and  private  sector  people.  They  would  meet  in  work¬ 
ing  sessions  somewhat  like  “Take  Part,”  to  consider  the  issues  in  their  “focus  of  interest,”  and  then 
draw  up  a  series  of  recommendations  before  presenting  their  findings  to  a  second  public  meeting, 
which  would  then  be  called  upon  to  vote  on  them. 

In  effect  what  the  Mayor  was  suggesting  was  the  organization  of  a  public  creative  process  along 
a  time  line  in  which  creative  work  performed  by  task  forces  was  punctuated  by  a  series  of  public 
meetings  representing  public  accountability.  The  Mayor  was  sufficiently  astute  to  know  that  public 
accountability  would  usually  turn  out  to  be  good  politics. 

The  term  “charrette”  came  into  wide  use  to  describe  such  interdisciplinary  working  sessions 
which  involved  the  public.  Many  variants  were  devised.  Some  were  conducted  by  organizations,  such 
as  the  Institute  for  Urban  Design  or  the  AIA;  others  were  originated  by  professional  firms,  such  as 
the  “squatter”  program  of  Caudill,  Rowland  &  Scott.  Others  were  conducted  by  universities  such  as 
the  small  towns  program  in  Indiana  organized  by  Ball  State;  and  yet  others  used  the  media  as  a 
means  of  enfranchising  a  larger  audience,  as  in  the  case  of  Charles  Moore  who  conducted  his  char¬ 
rette  for  the  Indianapolis  White  River  project  by  setting  up  a  drawing  board  in  a  television  studio  and 
encouraging  citizens  to  make  inputs  by  telephone  hook-up  in  response  to  what  they  watched  him 
drawing  on  their  screens. 

Democracy  and  Urban  Form 

The  town  meetings  in  New  England  lie  at  the  root  of  democracy,  American  style.  What  many  of 
us  do  not  realize,  perhaps,  is  that  American  style  democracy  also  lies  at  the  basis  of  the  physical  form 
of  our  towns  and  cities.  When  we  fly  across  the  North  American  continent,  we  can  see  from  our  win¬ 
dow  seat  a  geometric  mesh  of  land  division  flung  over  the  mid-West  from  horizon  to  horizon,  leap¬ 
ing  rivers,  overlaying  hills,  encompassing  towns.  When  we  look  at  an  urban  property  map,  we  see 
towns  similarly  subdivided  into  grids  of  blocks;  and  then  we  see,  yet  smaller  the  subdivisions  of  lots 
within  the  blocks;  and  finally,  we  see  the  location  of  buildings  set  within  the  lots  in  terms  of  setbacks, 
height  regulations,  and  percentages  of  lot  coverage. 

Yet  once  these  geometric  requirements  are  met,  every  building  is  potentially  a  unique  self- 
expression.  In  other  words  the  vitality  of  the  American  city  is  its  endless  capacity  for  individual  self- 
expression — its  endless  variety  and  richness  of  visual  surface — within  the  invisible  unity  of  an 
underlying  geometry.  Possibly  the  clearest  and  most  persuasive  expression  of  this  uniquely  American 
urban  form  is  to  be  found  in  those  residential  areas  where  buildings  seem  to  be  located  on  a  carpet 
of  endless  lawn,  and  where  the  underlying  geometry  is  truly  unseen. 

As  a  metaphor  of  American  democracy  this  implicit  urban  form  is  exact.  Just  as,  within  these 
grids,  every  front  door  is  geometrically  linked  to  every  other  front  door,  so  are  the  rights  of  every  citi¬ 
zen  linked  to  every  other  citizen  within  the  framework  of  law.  Yet,  as  in  the  urban  form,  every  citizen 
is  expected  to  be  free  within  the  framework  to  exercise  and  express  his  uniqueness.  In  the  public 
meeting,  the  old  lady,  the  young  neighborhood  teacher’s  wife,  and  the  unemployed  African  Ameri¬ 
can,  are  linked  by  legal  rights,  by  economic  and  social  forces,  and  by  urban  form  so  immutably  that 
every  issue  they  raised  separately  could  be  seen  to  impact  immediately  on  all  the  others. 


22 


Memories  of  the  Future 


As  architects  and  urban  designers  we  flatter  ourselves  if  we  believe  that  we  are  designing  the 
future.  The  underlying  force  of  what  we  are  designing  is  a  projection  into  the  future  of  memories. 
Implicit  within  the  statement  of  the  old  lady  in  the  public  meeting  was  not  turning  the  clock  back  to 
a  world  without  telephones,  air  conditioning  or  automobiles,  but  rather  a  recognition  of  scale, 
human  values,  and  environmental  quality.  Indeed  it  is  not  beyond  us  as  urban  designers  to  draw 
what  she  was  talking  about  in  contemporary  terms. 

In  much  the  same  way  the  preservation  of  the  higher  income  neighborhood  which  the  school 
teacher’s  wife  called  for  provides  us  with  lessons  about  street  widths,  shade  trees,  sidewalks,  and  den- 
sides  which  in  turn  provide  keys  to  the  reconstruction  of  the  vacant  urban  renewal  land,  now  used 
for  those  parking  lots  the  secretary  was  afraid  of  after  the  dark,  which  have  cut  off  Main  Street  from 
the  residential  areas  that  once  surrounded  and  perforated  the  commercial  core  of  the  city,  and  with 
further  insights  about  diversifying  and  humanizing  the  segregated  neighborhood  the  unemployed 
African  American  lives  in. 

Indeed  the  most  obdurate  issues  of  that  evening  were  brought  out  without  bitterness  but  firmly 
by  the  African-American  speaker — the  issues  of  poverty,  the  lack  of  opportunities  for  low-income  and 
segregated  people,  the  widening  gap  between  the  “haves”  and  “have  nots”  in  our  cities,  and  the 
despair  of  the  young.  To  find  ways  to  bring  opportunity  and  the  breath  of  new  open-ended  futures 
into  our  inner  cities  is  perhaps  the  greatest  challenge  facing  urban  designers  and  public-policy  makers 
today. 

As  an  urban  designer  one  has  to  learn  to  listen,  and  to  hear  and  see  within  the  word  of  local  cit¬ 
izens  the  metaphors  of  future  form  and  action.  After  all,  it  is  their  city.  In  my  experience  of  thirty 
years  of  public  processes  in  urban  design,  it  has  always  been  thus:  people  can  only  visualize  the  future 
by  speaking  about  the  best  and  the  worst  of  the  past,  and  most  particularly  their  own  personal  expe¬ 
rience  of  the  past.  Indeed  one’s  most  exciting  moments  are  when,  after  several  tries,  one  draws  an 
image  which  can  be  backed  up  by  implemen table  public  policy,  and  citizens  stand  up — and  if  you 
are  really  lucky,  clap — and  exclaim,  now  that  is  more  like  it,  now  you  are  really  getting  there!  It  is  at 
moments  such  as  this  that  one  realizes  the  power  of  urban  design  to  act  as  the  bridge  between  the 
contexts  we  inherit  and  the  horizons  we  strive  for. 

Much  has  been  said  recently  about  false  or  sentimental  historicism.  This  is  absolutely  justified 
when  gingerbread  historicism  is  referred  to,  and  there  has  been  a  lot  of  that.  But  the  historicism  I 
am  referring  to  is  neither  false  nor  sentimental.  It  is  the  utterance,  in  three  dimensional  drawings 
and  models,  of  traditional  local  urban  language  struggling  to  give  form  to  aspiration. 

Once  this  language  is  set  out  on  paper  its  accountability  to  agency  regulations,  engineering  re¬ 
quirements,  fiscal  policy,  market  economics,  social  programs,  and  public  policy  can  be  defined.  Through 
negotiation  each  will  impact  on  the  design;  and  each  has  to  be  accommodated  if  the  design  is  to  be  ac¬ 
countable  in  the  fullest  sense,  and  indeed  is  to  gain  in  strength  as  it  moves  toward  being  implemented. 

The  public  meeting  in  our  mid-Western  town  focused  on  several  of  the  major  problems  that 
beset  our  cities,  the  decline  of  downtowns,  the  isolation  of  older  neighborhoods,  segregation  and 
inner  city  poverty,  and  the  dematerialization  of  urban  form.  But  even  on  that  first  evening  it  became 
clear  that  all  of  these  things  were  linked  one  to  the  other,  and  that  a  holistic  urban  policy  would  be 
the  only  one  to  ultimately  make  sense. 

When  we  revisit  the  ancient  cities  of  the  world  we  most  admire,  we  inevitably  sense  each  time  a 
deepening  of  the  layers  and  the  details  of  the  common  language  which,  generation  upon  genera¬ 
tion,  was  spoken  unselfconsciously  in  their  streets  and  riverfronts  and  plazas,  from  the  macro  urban 
form  of  scales  and  vistas  and  densities  to  the  micro  forms  of  floorspace,  arcades,  steps,  rails,  and  tex¬ 
tures  in  sunlight  and  shadow.  America  too  has  its  local  languages.  They  are  different  from  the  urban 
languages  of  Europe,  Africa  or  Asia.  They  also  differ  within  America  from  city  to  city  and  town  to 
town.  We  have  to  learn  to  speak  them  in  urban  design,  and  to  be  able  to  project  their  local  dialect 
and  the  aspirations  of  their  people  unbroken  into  our  urban  futures. 


23 


GRAND  PLAN,  MONUMENT,  GRID:  A  DEFENSE  OF  WASHINGTON,  D.C. 

Steven  W.  Hurtt 


The  archiving  of  these  drawings  and  related  material  is  of  great  significance.  The  people  who 
have  participated  in  these  charrettes  are  among  those  who  have  made  important  contributions  to 
the  theoretical  and  practical  development  of  urban  design  in  this  half  century.  Future  historians  will 
find  the  thoughts  on  the  design  of  the  nation’s  capital  city  represented  by  these  documents  of  partic¬ 
ular  interest.  This  publication,  combined  with  the  archive  of  the  charrette  collection,  describes 
much  of  our  understanding  of  the  urban  problems  of  our  day. 

Most  of  you  know  that  Iris  Miller  was  the  prime  mover  in  promoting  and  organizing  the  Wash¬ 
ington,  D.C.,  charrettes  that  took  place  each  year  between  1982  and  1989.  The  1982,  1983,  and  1984 
charrettes  were  facilitated  through  the  Washington,  D.C.  Chapter  of  the  American  Institute  of  Archi¬ 
tects  and  the  Smithsonian,  with  the  Smithsonian  hosting  the  event.  In  the  late  spring  of  1985,  when 
the  Smithsonian  decided  that  it  would  not  continue  as  cosponsor  of  the  program,  I  agreed  to  host 
the  1985  charrette  at  the  Catholic  University  of  America  Summer  Session  in  Architecture,  a  program 
for  which  I  was  the  academic  director.  It  was  a  great  success.  I  have  always  been  pleased  that  my  suc¬ 
cessors,  Max  Underwood  in  1986,  and  Neal  Payton  in  1987,  1988,  and  1989  continued  them. 

When  Iris  Miller  asked  me  to  make  a  presentation  for  this  event  she  suggested  that  I  focus  on 
some  comments  I  made  during  the  final  summation  of  our  1985  charrette.  Iris  described  my 
remarks  as  “an  impassioned  statement  about  the  symbolic  form  of  Washington,  D.C.”  I  cannot  recall 
exactly  what  I  said  that  day.  But  probing  my  memory,  I  first  bumped  into  the  emotions  I  had  felt.  I 
was  surprised  at  how  strong  they  were.  Then  I  began  to  recall  the  thematic  issues.  In  reconstructing 
the  issues  I  realized  that  three  strands  of  experience  had  been  braided  together  in  my  mind  to  pro¬ 
duce  the  feelings  and  remarks  I  had  made.  Explaining  those  braided  strands  will  help  to  illustrate 
the  points  I  made  then  and  want  to  reaffirm  now. 

The  first  strand  was  one  of  circumstance  emerging  from  the  experience  of  the  charrette  itself 
and  the  state  of  architecture  in  the  mid  1980s.  The  second  strand  is  related  to  my  childhood  memo¬ 
ries  of  Washington,  D.C.  And  the  third  strand  is  my  adult  and  professional  knowledge  of  our  urban 
and  architectural  history  and  the  meanings  that  I  have  derived  from  it. 

The  strand  represented  by  the  charrette  was  this:  a  lot  of  terrific  ideas  had  been  generated  and 
presented.  Spirited  and  hopeful  discussion  had  ensued.  But  in  the  closing  hour  certain  anti-urban, 
anti-monumental,  anti-neo-classical,  and  anti-grid  sentiments  suddenly  surfaced.  Part  of  this  was  just 
frustration  with  the  status  quo  and  the  particularities  of  Washington,  D.C.,  but  much  of  it  also 
reflected  general  views  found  in  our  architecture  and  urban  literature. 

I  listened  to  the  complaints.  They  were  familiar.  But  I  could  not  reconcile  them  with  my  child¬ 
hood  experience.  It  was  an  experience  like  that  of  my  early  architecture  education  when  I  had  not 
been  able  to  reconcile  those  childhood  experiences  with  the  polemics  and  paradigms  of  Modern 
Architecture  which  then  held  sway.  Subsequent  adult  experience  and  an  increased  knowledge  of  our 
history  had  aided  a  reconciliation  of  that  childhood  experience  with  our  urban-architectural  history, 
and  my  interpretation  of  it.  While  I  do  not  think  Washington,  D.C.  is  perfect,  or  that  it  has  lived  up 
to  its  potential  as  the  great  city  that  it  could  be,  I  found  myself  defending  it. 

I  was  born  here.  I  spent  much  of  my  childhood  and  teenage  years  growing  up  in  and  around 
D.C.  To  the  eyes  of  the  child  that  I  was,  Washington,  D.C.  between  1940  and  1960,  presented  a  won¬ 
derful  and  magnificent  diagram  of  life,  from  life  in  the  neighborhood  to  life  in  the  city  and  the 
world  at  large. 

The  neighborhoods  where  the  people  lived  were  all  red  brick,  and  the  buildings  where  most 
people  worked  were  white  stone.  In  the  brick  neighborhoods  individual  houses,  row  houses,  or 
apartment  buildings  of  various  types  and  sizes  made  up  a  cohesive  fabric.  Even  the  schools  were  red 
brick,  like  real  big  houses.  The  usual  convenience  stores  were  just  that,  convenient.  Everybody 


24 


seemed  to  work  somewhere  in  that  magnificent  place  called  “downtown.”  Downtown  was  also  a  place 
to  go  on  special  occasions.  My  earliest  memory  of  the  Mall  is  being  scared  to  death  by  fireworks  on 
the  Fourth  of  July. 

We  lived  just  off  North  Capital  Street.  A  ride  downtown  on  the  bus  was  a  ride  on  axis  with  the  cos¬ 
mic  center  of  a  larger  universe,  symbolized  by  the  Capitol  dome.  The  Capitol,  Union  Station,  and  the 
grand  buildings  of  the  Mall  and  the  Federal  Triangle  were  evidendy  as  ancient  and  permanent  as  any¬ 
thing  on  the  earth.  When  I  got  a  litde  older,  I  must  have  imagined  that  they  were  all  built  just  after  the 
Revolutionary  War.  Education  is  full  of  surprises.  I  also  remember  the  vast  hall  of  the  National  Gallery 
of  Art  with  its  massive  black  columns,  bigger  in  girth  than  any  tree  I  had  ever  seen.  I  was  awed. 

I  liked  nothing  better  than  to  greet  arriving  relatives  at  Union  Station,  cool  in  the  summer, 
warm  in  the  winter,  its  vast  hall  filled  with  large  wood  benches  and  teeming  with  people  coming  and 
going  to  places  far  beyond  my  imagination.  This  had  to  be  the  center  of  a  vast  and  exciting  world  of 
which  I  wanted  to  be  a  part. 

I  remember  one  hot  summer  day  emerging  from  Union  Station,  and  there  in  that  great  foun¬ 
tain  in  front  of  it  were  a  host  of  kids  splashing  about  beneath  the  tolerant  and  watchful  eyes  of  the 
police.  It  was  the  early  1950s.  We  had  moved  out  of  the  city  to  the  suburbs.  Lots  of  lawn,  and  a  neigh¬ 
borhood  playground  with  a  sandbox,  jungle  gym  and  swings  surrounded  by  a  chain  link  fence,  room 
for  bike  riding,  and  a  creek  near  by  you  could  not  swim  in  for  fear  of  polio.  No  pool,  no  beach, 
nobody  came  around  and  turned  on  the  fire  hydrant.  I  envied  those  kids  their  fountain,  their  city 
playground.  I  envied  their  lives. 

The  first  time  I  read  the  Gettysburg  address  I  was  facing  the  wall  on  which  it  is  inscribed  in  the 
Lincoln  Memorial.  I  was  probably  eleven  years  old.  I  felt  Lincoln  watching  me.  I  have  never  been  in  a 
better  classroom. 

You  can  see  a  number  of  things  in  my  childhood  experience  of  Washington,  D.C.  First,  that 
there  was  a  reassuring  clarity  about  the  man-made  world.  I  thought  I  understood  how  the  world  was 
organized  both  spatially  and  socially.  Second,  it  gave  me  a  sense  of  how  my  world,  my  house,  was 
linked  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  to  the  government,  and  to  the  transportation  system  that  linked 
everyone  to  everyone  else.  Third,  it  was  a  place  in  which  I  had  important  experiences  of  community. 
Fourth,  I  was  awed  by  it,  not  intimidated,  but  awed  by  its  majesty  and  apparent  immutability.  Lastly,  I 
was  inspired  by  it. 

Grand  Plan 

None  of  the  experiences  I  have  described  would  have  been  possible  without  Washington’s 
grand  plan,  and  more  specifically  the  Parks  Movement  and  the  City  Beautiful  Movement  that  were 
the  impetus  for  the  aggrandizement  and  embellishment  of  our  cities  circa  1850  to  1940.  There  is  lit¬ 
tle  or  nothing  today  in  our  courses  of  study  in  architecture,  planning,  or  public  policy  that  focuses 
on  these  movements  or  in  any  way  promotes  the  essential  ideas  represented  by  them.  It  is  primarily 
on  these  ideas  that  I  want  to  focus,  on  the  idea  of  the  monumental  city. 

Our  knowledge  of  the  Parks  and  City  Beautiful  movements  creates  a  ready  image  of  the  idea  of 
the  monumental  city.  But  more  precisely,  I  mean  a  city  that  is  conceived  to  manifest  the  idea  of  good 
and  accessible  government,  a  well  ordered  and  commodious  environment,  a  city  that  is  conceived  as 
an  instrument  of  education,  socialization,  spiritual  renewal,  and  an  inspiration  to  good  citizenship. 

Such  was  the  program  of  these  movements.  The  names  of  the  movements  unfortunately  belie 
their  serious  purpose.  They  give  the  impression  of  cosmetic  effect.  In  fact,  the  movements  were 
begun  and  sustained  by  people  who  saw  the  need  to  address  a  complex  set  of  social  and  technical 
concerns  not  wholly  unlike  our  own:  the  rapidly  expanding  19th  century  industrial  city  and  atten¬ 
dant  problems  of  traffic,  pollution,  health,  and  hygiene;  a  major  shift  from  an  agrarian  to  an  urban 
population;  illiteracy;  no  access  to  education;  a  fitful  economy;  and  an  increasingly  large  number  of 
immigrants  from  cultures  without  democratic  traditions  which  might  pose  a  threat  to  our  nation’s 
democratic  experiment. 


25 


The  City  Beautiful  was  to  deliver  hygiene  through  a  clean  water  supply  and  sewage  system; 
improve  public  transit  including  subway  systems  and  centralized  rail  stations;  make  the  government 
evident  and  accessible;  provide  opportunities  of  self  education  and  acculturation  to  American  and 
democratic  values  through  access  and  availability  of  neighborhood  cultural  centers,  city  wide  muse¬ 
ums,  libraries,  symphony  halls,  zoos,  botanical  gardens,  exhibition  halls,  and  conservatories;  provide 
places  for  healthy  social  interaction  through  parks  and  recreational  facilities;  spiritual  renewal 
through  contact  with  the  restorative  powers  of  nature;  and  the  opportunity  for  exercise  in  the  out¬ 
doors.  Taken  together,  the  Parks  Movement  and  the  City  Beautifiil  Movement  largely  succeeded  in 
doing  all  of  this. 

Washington,  D.C.  is  just  one  such  city.  We  all  know  that  L’Enfant  designed  the  basic  plan  for 
Washington,  that  it  was  based  on  Versailles,  that  the  McMillan  Commission  was  responsible  for  a  new 
impetus  that  built  upon  the  L’Enfant  plan  and  has  given  us  much  of  the  monumental  core  as  we 
know  it,  the  Tidal  Basin,  Memorial  Bridge,  the  Jefferson  and  Lincoln  Memorials,  and  the  develop¬ 
ment  of  most  of  the  museums  along  the  mall.  Taken  together,  it  is  these  which  distinguish  Washing¬ 
ton. 

Has  there  been  a  more  effective  and  tangible  program  of  city  making  since  the  City  Beautiful? 
Today,  despite  our  focus  on  systemic  functional,  social,  and  economic  problems,  our  proportionately 
greater  resources,  and  our  overt  avoidance  of  aggrandizement,  beauty,  embellishment,  and  symbolism 
we  seem  unable  to  achieve  environments  that  are  as  holistic,  as  functional,  as  inspired,  or  as  beautiful. 

One  reason  that  the  City  Beautiful  is  no  longer  to  be  considered  as  a  serious  proposition  seems 
to  be  the  matter  of  style.  For  the  City  Beautiful  was  manifest  primarily  in  the  style  of  neo-classicism. 
This  deserves  examination.  There  are  two  related  problems.  One  is  that  the  classical  style  is  some¬ 
times  presumed  to  be  symbolic  of  the  autocratic  and  therefore  not  appropriate  to  a  democracy.  The 
other  is  that  we  have  been  convinced  that  every  age  manifests  a  particular  style,  and  therefore  past 
styles  can  not  be  relevant  to  contemporary  concerns. 

Ever  since  architectural  historians  began  to  use  architecture  as  an  index  of  culture  and  to  say 
that  specific  styles  embodied  or  reflected  their  age,  there  has  been  a  great  self-consciousness  about 
architectural  style.  From  that  self-consciousness  emerged  the  rationale  for  Modern  Architecture  as 
expressive  of  our  time.  While  the  very  diversity  of  Modern  Architecture  belies  the  unity  of  that  theo¬ 
retical  notion,  questions  of  appropriate  style  continue  to  plague  us,  nevertheless. 

The  proposition  that  the  classical  style  represents  autocracy  rather  than  democracy  can  likely  be 
traced  to  the  period  during  which  the  L’Enfant  plan  was  adopted.  Questions  of  symbolic  form  were 
particularly  acute  in  French  architectural  theory  of  the  time.  As  most  grand  Baroque  and  Neo-Classi¬ 
cal  plans  emerged  and  were  developed  in  autocracies,  the  possibility  that  they  might  be  seen  as 
emblems  of  the  politics  of  autocracy  has  an  element  of  historical  accuracy.  But  there  is  not  a  causal 
relation.  With  the  French  Revolution  and  the  opening  of  the  estate  gardens  of  the  autocracy  to  the 
people,  the  value  of  grand  planning  for  the  general  populace  became  evident.  The  plan  of  Washing¬ 
ton  was  created  just  a  few  years  later  and  under  political  conditions  that  allowed  the  form  to  be  con¬ 
ceived  as  democratic.  L’Enfant,  Washington,  and  the  Congress  are  unambiguous  on  this  point  Nor 
is  there  ambiguity  in  the  intentions  of  the  McMillan  Commission.  Neo-classicism  and  Baroque  plan¬ 
ning  alluded  far  more  generally  to  humanistic  values,  and  to  ideas  of  permanency,  stability,  and  uni¬ 
versal  order  than  to  autocracy. 

More  specifically  for  our  forefathers  the  classical  language  was  no  doubt  deemed  appropriate 
for  the  capital’s  buildings  because  it  made  reference  to  the  ideals  of  Greek  democracy  and  Roman 
republicanism,  the  ideals  on  which  our  society  and  its  government  were  founded. 

‘That  was  then,  this  is  now,”  you  might  say.  And  it  is  easiest  to  sustain  such  debates  on  trivial 
projects  where  theory  can  loom  larger  than  reality.  But  what  would  we  do  if  the  United  States  Capi¬ 
tol  building  burned  to  the  ground.  Certainly  we  would  replace  it,  but  how,  and  in  what  style?  It  is 
easy  to  imagine  a  circumstance  like  that  when  the  Tower  in  St.  Mark’s  Square  in  Venice  collapsed.  A 
competition  was  held.  Many  interesting  entries  were  promulgated.  Much  controversy  ensued.  And 
the  Mayor  finally  said,  “Dov’  era,  com  era.  ”  Where  it  was,  as  it  was. 


26 


There  are  certain  issues  of  symbolism,  meaning,  and  style,  that  seem  transcendent.  While  the 
general  meaning  of  form  may  remain  more  or  less  fixed,  its  specific  meaning  can  be  far  more  fluid  and 
thus  subject  to  context,  much  like  words.  The  dome  of  the  Capitol  is  based  on  the  dome  of  St. 
Peter’s  in  Rome,  but  the  Capitol  dome  has  never  been  controverted  as  a  symbol  of  Catholicism.  Nor 
for  that  matter  has  the  fact  that  domes  have  historically  been  religious  symbols  been  a  problem  for 
us  despite  our  sensitivity  to  issues  of  separation  of  church  and  state.  The  reason  is  simple  enough. 
The  general  meaning  of  dome  denotes  a  sense  of  the  sacred,  rather  than  the  religious,  that  is  a  place 
of  great  importance  to  the  society.  The  more  specific  associations,  like  St.  Peter’s  and  Catholicism, 
fall  away,  and  are  indeed  replaced  by  associations  resulting  from  the  new  use  and  the  new  context 

The  particular  disposition  of  the  dome  of  the  U.S.  Capitol  contributes  to  its  meaning.  It  does 
not  preside  over  a  space  that  is  a  pantheon  of  our  political  and  cultural  leaders.  It  does  not  preside 
over  the  tomb  of  one  of  our  founders  or  first  president  It  does  not  mark  either  the  House  or  the 
Senate.  Instead  it  marks  and  shelters  a  great  lobby  space  accessible  to  all  the  people  of  the  nation. 
Any  one  individual  can  come  stand  in  that  space,  any  group  can  assemble  there,  anyone  can  speak 
freely  there  to  someone  else.  It  is  those  rights  of  the  individual,  of  assembly,  of  speech,  and  ultimately 
of  access  to  the  Congress  that  the  Capitol  symbolizes  and  makes  sacred. 

Simultaneously  we  can  associate  the  dome  and  all  the  neo-classical  buildings  of  Washington 
with  antiquity,  with  Greek  democracy  and  Roman  republicanism,  and  of  republican  virtue  under¬ 
stood  as  a  devotion  to  the  common  good.  In  the  history  of  the  United  States,  this  idea  of  republican 
virtue,  of  acting  for  the  common  good,  was  embodied  in  the  idea  of  the  grand  plan  for  the  city. 

Monument 

One  component  of  the  idea  of  the  monumental  city  is  that  it  instructs  and  inspires.  On  the  sur¬ 
face  of  it,  historical  events  and  civic  leadership  are  commemorated.  Social  leadership  is  honored, 
whether  it  be  civic,  military,  or  intellectual.  In  other  cases  it  is  the  virtues  themselves  that  are  pro¬ 
moted:  honesty,  duty,  loyalty,  friendship,  tolerance,  courage,  justice,  and  so  on.  The  broader  pro¬ 
gram  is  that  these  inscriptions  and  depictions  teach  a  dedication  to  the  public  good.  Do  such 
programs  work?  I  think  they  do.  I  remember  when  I  first  read  the  Gettysburg  address.  I  remember 
the  inscription  at  the  entrance  to  my  junior  high  school,  “Knowledge  Is  Power,”  and  over  the  choir  at 
my  high  school’s  chapel,  ‘Whatsoever  Things  Are  True.” 

I  also  remember  stopping  one  day  in  Angola,  Indiana,  on  a  car  trip  across  the  state.  In  the  cen¬ 
tral  square  of  that  small  town  is  an  obelisk  that  commemorates  the  contribution  of  that  town  to  sev- 
eral  wars.  I  have  read  a  lot  of  such  inscriptions.  Something  about  this  one  stood  out.  Each  of  the  four 
sides  bore  plaques  of  dedication.  One  was  dedicated  to  the  women  who  sacrificed  and  suffered  in 
the  many  ways  that  war  imposes,  replacing  men  in  fields  and  factories,  and  losing  fathers,  husbands, 
sons,  and  other  loved  ones.  That  lesson  was  never  more  clear  to  me  than  it  was  that  summer  day  in 
the  middle  of  that  small  town  in  the  Midwest. 

Grid 


As  part  of  the  traditional  city,  the  grid,  long  venerated  by  urbanists  for  its  flexible,  workable,  and 
rational  ordering  of  the  landscape  and  the  cityscape,  has  been  much  maligned  in  this  century’s  liter¬ 
ature.  We  can  analyze  that  bias  metaphorically,  functionally  and  historically. 

Metaphorically,  the  grid  is  commonly  used  to  symbolize  all  that  is  contrary  to  the  American  val¬ 
ues  of  individualism,  pastoralism,  and  nature.  Rightly  or  wrongly,  the  city  is  seen  as  contrary  to  those 
values.  As  a  symbol  of  the  city,  the  grid  metaphorically  evokes  anonymity,  relentlessness,  monotony, 
and  insensitivity  to  the  individual  and  particular  in  man,  society,  and  nature.  Some  authors  have  seen 
it  differently.  Wolfgang  Langewiesche,  observing  the  rural  American  grid  from  the  air  and  from  the 
perspective  of  our  sociopolitical  history,  has  described  it  as  a  “diagram  of  the  social  contract”  John 
Kouwenhoven  has  compared  the  American  grid  to  jazz  and  the  U.S.  Constitution  finding  that  they 


27 


share  the  common  characteristic  of  establishing  a  framework  for  individual  acdon  and  improvisa¬ 
tion,  a  characteristic  of  American  culture.  Jean  Paul  Sartre,  visiting  the  United  States  just  at  the  end 
of  World  War  II,  was  struck  by  one  manifestation  of  the  grid  city,  the  open  vista  of  the  street.  This 
open  vista  frustrates  urbanists  because  it  is  contrary  to  spatial  definition  and  enclosure.  Sartre  cele¬ 
brated  this  effect.  Contrasting  the  American  city  to  the  European  city  he  said,  “The  long  straight 
streets  and  avenues  of  a  gridiron  city  do  not  permit  the  buildings  to  cluster  like  sheep  and  protect 
one  against  the  sense  of  space.  They  are  not  somber  little  walks  closed  in  between  houses,  but 
national  highways.  The  moment  you  set  foot  on  one  of  them,  you  understand  that  it  has  to  go  on  to 
Boston  or  Chicago.”  Langewiesche,  Kouwenhoven,  and  Sartre,  all  use  the  grid  as  a  metaphor  for 
American  sociopolitical  ideals,  seeing  it  as  expressive  of  a  free  society,  connecting  each  of  us  to  a 
limitless  horizon  of  opportunity,  and  enabling  our  freedom  of  movement,  communication,  associa¬ 
tion,  and  assembly. 

Functionally,  it  may  be  sufficient  here  to  point  out  that  the  idea  of  the  city  exists  in  conflict  with 
the  idea  of  the  neighborhood.  One  of  the  attributes  of  the  grid  is  that  of  continuity  and  connection, 
one  of  the  essential  aspects  of  the  very  idea  of  the  city.  In  contrast,  neighborhood  and  locale  beg  for 
definition  and  boundary,  discontinuity  and  disconnection.  We  know,  of  course,  that  there  are  sec¬ 
tions  of  the  grid  city  that  work  well  as  both  city  and  neighborhood.  We  need  to  study  such  places  with 
care  in  order  to  apply  their  lessons  elsewhere. 

Historically,  the  grid  is  endemic  to  both  American  cities  and  the  American  landscape.  How  did 
this  come  about?  Is  there  anything  in  our  history  that  gives  special  validation  to  the  grid?  I  think  so. 
When  the  Continental  Congress  adopted  the  Land  Ordinance  of  1785  which  established  the  form  of 
survey,  land  subdivision,  and  settlement  of  the  new  nation’s  western  lands,  it  did  far  more  than  adopt 
a  convenient  pattern  of  land  survey  to  transform  the  wilderness  into  a  rural  landscape.  It  adopted 
the  primary  and  preferred  form  of  community  settlement  of  the  time,  the  township,  and  idealized  it 
into  a  six-mile-square  pattern. 

Two  things  about  this  six-mile-square  township  pattern  are  important.  First,  these  were  urban- 
rural  units,  units  of  civic  community  that  were  the  common  pattern  of  settlement  in  the  New  Eng¬ 
land  and  Mid  Atlantic  colonies  as  far  south  as  Pennsylvania.  Settlement  was  projected  not  as  a  matter 
of  rugged  individuals  only,  but  also  of  fully  formed  communities,  splintering  off  from  overcrowded 
townships  in  the  east.  Second,  the  township  was  the  key  to  political  franchise,  to  the  right  to  vote,  a 
right  for  which  the  Revolutionary  War  had  just  been  fought.  We  forget  that  for  our  forefathers  the 
right  to  vote  was  linked  to  property  ownership.  Settlement  of  the  western  lands  essentially  ensured 
that  everyone  in  the  growing  nation  would  have  the  opportunity  of  land  ownership,  and  conse¬ 
quently  the  right  to  vote. 

The  formation  of  Washington,  D.C.  was  concurrent  with  the  discussions  of  the  Land  Ordinance 
of  1785.  In  those  discussions  the  ideal  size  for  the  township  was  debated.  How  many  miles  on  a  side? 
Five,  six,  seven,  ten?  The  largest  of  these,  the  ten  mile  square,  was  selected  for  Washington,  D.C. 
Thus,  Washington,  D.C.  represented  the  agrarian  ideal,  and  the  ideals  of  citizenship  and  franchise. 

For  much  of  our  history  descriptions  of  Washington,  D.C.,  chided  that  it  was  scarcely  more  than 
a  town.  Wasn’t  that  the  point?  Washington  was  conceived  as  the  nation’s  archetypal  town.  Where  oth¬ 
ers  see  a  Mall  that  is  too  large  and  grandiose,  I  see  the  national  common,  a  space  appropriately 
scaled  to  handle  the  immense  crowds  that  have  assembled  here  in  celebration,  protest  and  com¬ 
memoration:  Fourth  of  July;  Poor  People’s  March;  Viet  Nam  war  protest;  Martin  Luther  King’s,  “I 
have  a  dream”  speech;  J.F.K.’s  funeral  cortege.  Where  others  see  wasteful  embellishment,  I  see  an 
effective  program  of  education  and  inspiration,  a  program  dedicated  to  the  idea  of  citizenship  in  a 
democracy,  a  manifestation  of  the  Parks  and  City  Beautiful  movements,  our  first  nation-wide  environ¬ 
mental  programs  devoted  to  the  civic  welfare.  Where  others  see  Washington,  D.C.’s  grand  plan  and 
neo-classical  monumental  core  as  symbols  of  dominance  and  tyranny,  I  see  them  as  symbols  of  the 
longest  enduring,  democratically  based,  representative  constitutional  government  the  world  has  ever 
known.  Where  others  see  a  grid  that  is  boring,  relentless,  or  monotonous,  and  repressive  of  individ¬ 
uality  and  particularity,  I  see  an  historical  symbol  of  the  ideal  form  of  settlement  for  our  nation,  a 


28 


diagram  of  the  social  contract,  a  spatial  manifestation  of  equality  before  the  law,  a  framework  for 
democracy,  a  symbol  of  the  open  society,  freedom  of  movement  and  the  right  to  assemble. 

So  the  Washington  of  my  childhood  has  fused  with  the  Washington  of  my  adult  understanding. 
Imperfect  as  it  remains,  it  is  nonetheless  a  worthy  urban  model.  I  believe  that  the  best  of  our  char- 
rette  projects  understood  these  things,  and  attempted  to  build  upon  that  understanding. 


29 


CENTRAL  VISION:  THE  CITY  AS  A  LIVING  AND  CIVIC  MODEL 


Robert  A.  Peck 


The  problem  of  planning  for  Washington  as  a  real-life  city,  a  city  for  people,  is  hidden  in  the 
tide  of  this  talk:  “Central  Vision:  the  City  as  a  Living  and  Civic  Model.”  Throughout  Washington’s  his¬ 
tory,  planning  for  it  as  a  living  city  has  been  at  odds  with  its  role  as  national  civic  planning  model. 

I  do  not  mean  to  go  into  the  often-remarked  general  tension  between  Washington’s  function  as 
the  nation’s  capital  and  Washington  as  a  place  where  people  try  to  live.  The  fact  that  this  is  the 
nation’s  capital  has  everything  to  do  with  the  development  of  the  city,  of  course,  from  the  form — or 
non-form — of  city  government,  to  the  make-up  of  its  population,  its  economic  base,  its  social  life, 
and  so  on.  There  has  always  been  commentary  about  the  city’s  strange  existence  as  a  company  town, 
particularly  in  periods  such  as  this  when  the  city  government’s  finances  seem  to  be  in  dire  straits. 
Well  over  a  hundred  years  ago,  historians  and  civic  observers  were  commenting  on  Washington’s 
uniqueness  among  world  capitals  in  its  existence  as  a  political  capital  exclusively,  without  any  claim  to 
being  a  cultural  or  commercial  capital  of  its  country. 

I  want  to  focus  more  on  the  planning  efforts  that  have  shaped  the  image  of  central  Washington 
and  their  effect  on  the  vitality  of  the  center  city  as  a  central  business  and  residential  district.  What  we 
find  here  is  a  tension  between  the  physical  planning  for  Washington  as  a  national  capital  and 
national  civic  model  on  the  one  hand,  and  on  the  other  hand,  the  development  of  a  conventional, 
living  downtown. 

Planning  for  the  monumental,  symbolic  capital  city  of  Washington  has  always  taken  precedence 
over  planning  for  the  residential  and  commercial  city.  If  anything,  that  tilt  toward  the  monumental 
has  been  more  pronounced  in  the  20th  century  than  it  was  during  the  previous  110  years  of  the  city’s 
planning  and  development.  Worse,  it  appears  that  the  long  legacy  of  monumental  planning  by  the 
federal  government  so  fixed  the  city’s  planning  culture,  not  to  mention  its  physical  development, 
that  the  advent  of  home  rule  has  done  little  to  change  it.  Perhaps  this  symposium  can  help  spark  a 
turnabout. 

We  should  be  fair  to  the  city’s  founding  fathers.  At  least  one  of  them — L’Enfant — had  in  mind  a 
full-service,  organic  city.  For  all  that  we  credit  him  with  expressing  in  abstract  physical  plan  the  con¬ 
stitutional  separation  of  powers  between  the  executive  and  legislative  branches,  he  also  brought  to 
the  task  an  European’s  urban  sense.  Although  he  is  in  many  ways  most  responsible  for  the  justifiable 
renown  of  Washington  as  an  abstract  planning  model,  he  is  not  responsible  for  the  fixation  on  that 
monumental  planning  model  which  has  had  the  effect  of  stultifying  planning  for  a  real  downtown. 

L’Enfant,  it  seems,  tried  to  temper  Jefferson’s  too-rational  ideas.  Jefferson,  left  to  his  own 
thoughts,  might  well  have  imposed  a  rigid  grid  as  the  city’s  plan.  L’Enfant  took  topography  into 
account  and  overlaid  an  ordered,  but  quirky  diagonal  street  system  over  the  grid.  In  his  enthusiasm 
for  Enlightenment  order  and  belief  in  the  democratizing  power  of  a  landed  yeomanry,  Jefferson  was 
hardly  what  we  would  call  today  a  city  person.  His  ideas  about  residential  development  on  the  city’s 
lots  appear  to  have  been  informed  by  an  almost  suburban  vision.  It  is  possible  to  imagine  Jefferson 
being  perfectly  content  with  the  separation  of  uses,  Congress  in  its  precinct,  the  executive  branch  in 
its  precinct,  residents  and  commerce  somewhere  else  but  who  cares  where,  that  the  McMillan  Com¬ 
mission  so  successfully  imposed  more  than  a  hundred  years  later. 

That  was  not  L’Enfant’s  vision,  as  far  as  we  can  tell.  L’Enfant  proposed  dispersing  the  public 
buildings  around  his  city.  We  should  remember,  of  course,  that  his  city  was  the  compact  old  City  of 
Washington,  perhaps  not  one-quarter  of  the  city’s  area  now,  but  all  of  our  current  monumental  area, 
downtown,  and  inner  neighborhoods.  L’Enfant’s  idea  was  to  use  this  dispersal  of  buildings  to  stimu¬ 
late  development  more  or  less  evenly  throughout  the  city.  Interestingly,  it  even  appears  that  for  some 
of  the  round  or  rectangular  open  spaces  created  by  the  intersection  of  the  diagonal  avenues,  he 
intended  buildings  to  be  erected  in  the  spaces,  and  not  just  around  them.  In  other  words,  he 


30 


intended  development  something  like  the  Carnegie  Library  in  Mount  Vernon  Square  rather  than, 
say,  the  park-only  space  we  have  at  Farragut  Square. 

More  interesting  in  considering  Washington  as  a  civic  and  living  model,  is  L’Enfant’s  proposed 
treatment  of  the  Mall  and  how  that  vision  was  transformed.  L’Enfant’s  plan  was  generally  short  on 
description  of  the  sort  of  buildings  he  expected  to  see  filling  out  the  plan.  But  as  to  the  Mall, 
L’Enfant’s  vision  was  pretty  clear.  His  plan  shows  a  wide  avenue,  lined  by  buildings  which  he  sug¬ 
gested  might  be  foreign  embassies. 

L’Enfant  must  have  thought  that  embassies  would  impart  to  this  instant  city  in  a  newly  post¬ 
colonial  nadon  whatever  elegant  society  there  was  going  to  be.  In  fact,  toward  the  end  of  the  19th 
century,  when  Washington  became  for  a  short  period  the  social  place  to  be  for  the  wealthy  barons  of 
the  industrial  age,  it  was  because  of  the  international  flavor  lent  by  the  foreign  embassies.  So  it  is 
intriguing  to  imagine  what  it  would  have  meant  to  the  city  if  Embassy  Row  had  been  on  the  Mall 
instead  of  Dupont  Circle  and  Massachusetts  Avenue. 

L’Enfant’s  vision  of  the  Mall  disappeared  with  his  dismissal,  of  course.  In  fact,  the  Mall  itself 
almost  disappeared  during  the  19th  century.  For  a  period,  it  was  transformed  into  Downing’s  roman¬ 
tic,  curvy  garden.  By  the  turn  of  this  century,  however,  it  had  hardly  any  form  at  all.  Into  that  breach 
strode  the  McMillan  Commission,  which  laid  down  the  vast  greensward  that  we  now  know,  lined  by 
buildings  to  be  sure,  but  so  wide  and  so  sylvan  that  there  is  no  mistaking  it  for  the  urbane  boulevard 
that  L’Enfant  intended. 

Many  commentators  have  noted  that  the  McMillan  Commission  members,  on  their  famous 
fact-finding  tour  of  Europe,  took  as  their  model  for  the  Mall  not  European  boulevards  but  the  gar¬ 
dens  of  great  estates  and  palaces.  As  Elbert  Peets,  still  the  most  trenchant  observer  of  Washington 
planning,  put  it  in  1935:  “L’Enfant,  when  the  site  of  Washington  was  a  forest,  dreamed  of  the  Mall  as 
a  fashionable  Parisian  avenue,  while  the  Commission  of  1901,  with  a  big  city  spreading  all  about 
them,  dreamed  of  the  Mall  as  a  quiet  sanctuary  from  the  city’s  noise  and  bustle.” 

If  the  Mall  became  untidy  in  the  19th  century,  and  if  Pennsylvania  Avenue  and  the  other  major 
avenues  were  subject  to  ridicule  by  Charles  Dickens  as  “spacious  avenues  that  begin  in  nothing,  and 
lead  nowhere,”  still,  what  we  now  know  as  only  the  monumental  area  was  the  city’s  downtown  and  it 
had  its  vitality. 

You  need  only  consider  that  in  1835  Congress  found  it  necessary  to  ban  the  sale  of  liquor  in  the 
Capitol  rotunda  to  know  that  there  was  an  integration  of  the  governmental  and  commercial  life  of 
the  city  that  we  have  not  seen  since.  The  rotunda  until  that  time  was  a  general  gathering  and  market 
place,  a  fact  in  keeping  with  the  tradition  back  to  medieval  times  of  combining  town  or  guild  hall 
and  market  functions  in  one  building. 

Pennsylvania  Avenue  in  the  19th  century  became  the  “nation’s  main  street”  but  it  was  also  the 
city’s.  It  was  a  residential  and  commercial  street,  although  by  the  end  of  the  century  residences  had 
mostly  migrated  elsewhere.  The  site  of  the  Federal  Triangle  building  now  going  up  at  Pennsylvania 
Avenue  and  13th  Street  was  the  location  of  the  infamous  “Hooker’s  Division,”  the  red-light  district 
catering  to  the  soldiers  of  Union  General  Hooker’s  Army  of  the  Potomac.  The  numbered  streets 
running  north  from  the  Avenue  were  commercial  and  residential  for  many  blocks.  F  Street  devel¬ 
oped  as  a  parallel  commercial  street  because  it  is  on  the  first  ridge  up  from  the  Avenue  and,  until 
Boss  Shepherd  fixed  things,  low-lying  Pennsylvania  Avenue  was  subject  to  flooding. 

Pennsylvania  Avenue  had  several  hotels  and  not  just  the  Willard.  Significantly,  at  8th  Street  was 
the  Central  Market,  an  imposing  Victorian  public  building  that  gave  that  section  of  the  Avenue  the 
feeling  of  a  bazaar  every  day.  The  building  commanded  a  space  called  Market  Space,  the  name 
reflecting  the  fact,  unlike  today’s  Market  Square  development  which  overlooks  the  Market’s  former 
site.  I  wonder  how  many  people  who  work  or  live  near  Market  Square  today  have  any  idea  how  the 
name  was  derived. 

Then  came  the  McMillan  Commission,  born  in  the  City  Beautiful  movement,  to  clean  up  all 
this  disorder  in  the  monumental  core  of  the  city.  The  eventual  result  was  the  wide-open  Mall  and  the 
gargantuan  order  of  the  Federal  Triangle  on  the  south  side  of  Pennsylvania  Avenue.  This  was  surely 


31 


one  of  the  most  comprehensive  plans  to  emerge  from  the  City  Beautiful  movement  and  certainly 
one  of  the  most  thoroughly  carried  through.  Nowhere  else,  I  think,  did  City  Beautiful  planning 
transform  as  large  a  proportion  of  the  downtown  of  a  city. 

It  was  the  McMillan  plan  that  actually  made  federal  monumentalism  the  overriding  image  of 
Washington.  Before  that,  federal  architecture,  with  the  notable  exception  of  the  Capitol,  was  in  the 
city’s  background;  after  that,  the  city  was  a  backdrop  to  the  federal  presence.  To  go  back  to  the  tide 
of  this  talk,  the  McMillan  Plan  marked  the  triumph  of  the  civic  planning  vision  over  the  existence  of 
a  living  city,  the  triumph  of  visual  order  over  organic  development,  of  architectural  space  over  peo¬ 
ple  space. 

The  1974  Pennsylvania  Avenue  Plan  formally  noted  that  the  Federal  Triangle  had  made  Penn¬ 
sylvania  Avenue  a  barrier  between  the  government  area  and  downtown.  Ironically,  by  that  date,  the 
Pennsylvania  Avenue  planning  begun  under  President  Kennedy  had  itself  embraced  monumentality 
in  the  name  of  renewal.  With  one  notable  exception,  to  which  I  will  return,  the  plan’s  monumental¬ 
ity  erased  the  last  remaining  vestiges  of  downtown  from  Pennsylvania  Avenue. 

Washington  does  have  great  spaces  in  the  Mall,  the  Triangle  and  Pennsylvania  Avenue.  You 
have  to  hand  that  to  us.  We  have  room  for  huge  crowds  of  protesters  and  masses  of  marchers,  and  we 
can  accommodate  them  with  little  disruption  to  what  is  left  of  downtown. 

What  we  cannot  seem  to  do  is  provide  more  intimate  or  engaging  urban  spaces  that  welcome 
shoppers,  lunchtime  strollers,  and  residents.  We  don’t  have  vest-pocket  parks;  we  give  little  or  no 
attention  to  planning  our  commercial  streets  and  sidewalks. 

When  we  do  attempt  to  plan  them,  we  tend  to  apply  our  monumental  planning  mindset.  I  cite 
as  evidence  the  truly  inhuman  pedestrian  way — Streets  for  People,  I  think  it  was  called — to  which  F 
Street  was  converted  in  front  of  the  Portrait  Gallery  in  the  late  60s  and  early  70s.  It  has  since  been 
demolished,  since  the  people  shunned  it.  Or  take  the  inaccessible  and  underused  F  Street  median 
strip  of  the  same  period.  It  was  also  removed  a  few  years  ago,  after  several  years  of  pathetic  and 
expensive  planning  efforts  by  the  city  could  not  produce  a  credible  replacement. 

We  are  still  making  no  little  plans,  unfortunately.  We  have  the  city’s  Comprehensive  Plan,  which 
substitutes  legal  and  sociological  posturing  for  physical  planning,  and  NCPC  is  working  on  a  new 
megaplan  for  the  monumental  core.  What  we  do  not  have  is  anything  like  the  heated  debate  in  New 
York  on  how  to  create  zoning  incentives  for  building  plazas  that  will  attract  people  or  the  debates  in 
Seattle  or  San  Francisco  over  plans  to  create  urbanistic  neighborhoods. 

For  the  past  forty  years,  there  has  been  a  concern  in  the  city  over  the  decline  of  downtown.  Yet 
there  has  been  no  physical  planning  for  it.  If  it  is  not  a  monumental  space  like  the  Mall  or  Pennsylva¬ 
nia  Avenue,  an  urban  space  in  this  town  is  an  afterthought.  I  am  not  ignoring  the  fact  that  Dupont 
Circle,  Farragut  Square,  and  their  kin  are  wonderful  urban  places.  However,  a  city  needs  some  hard- 
edged  urban  spaces  that  are  cheek-by-jowl  with  buildings  and  street-level  shops  and  cafes. 

Ironically,  the  best  urban  space  in  the  city  of  the  kind  I  am  thinking  of,  is  on  Pennsylvania 
Avenue.  Even  more  ironically,  it  is  the  Market  Square/Navy  Memorial  space,  almost  bringing  those 
two  blocks  of  Pennsylvania  Avenue  full  circle  to  the  urban  vitality  they  had  before  the  Federal  Trian¬ 
gle  was  built.  Developed  under  PADC  authority,  its  shape,  sitting  ledges,  and  water  features  are 
almost  a  compendium  of  the  people-oriented  lessons  taught  by  William  H.  Whyte  and  the  Project  for 
Public  Spaces  that  he  founded.  Of  course,  it  is  a  semi-monumental  space,  but  it  does  work.  I  have 
seen  it  crowded  on  scorching  mid-summer  days. 

That  7th  to  9th  Street  corridor  almost  became  an  exemplary  urban  laboratory  for  the  city.  Sev¬ 
eral  years  ago,  a  consortium  of  developers  hired  Iris  Miller  and  EDAW  to  prepare  a  design  and  con¬ 
cept  plan  for  7th,  8th  and  9th  Street  streetscapes.  The  effort  was  a  public-private  partnership  and 
concentrated  on  small-scale  urban  design  and  public  amenities.  Recession  and  the  1990  mayoral 
election  seem  to  have  brought  it  to  a  halt. 

What  was  the  city  thinking  when  it  built  a  concrete  bunker  down  the  center  of  New  York 
Avenue  in  front  of  the  Greyhound  Bus  building?  The  intersection  of  13th  and  H  Streets  and  New 
York  Avenue  creates  an  intriguing  space  that  one  can  easily  visualize  as  a  piazza.  The  city  rebuilt  the 


32 


intersection’s  streets,  traffic  islands,  and  sidewalks  without  any  thought  to  encouraging  that  kind  of 
outcome. 

I  mention  both  of  those  street  spaces  because  both  were  singled  out  as  potentially  significant 
downtown  features  some  six  years  ago  by  architectural  teams  participating  in  an  all-day  charrette 
sponsored  by  the  late,  lamented  D.C.  Downtown  Partnership.  In  1986,  the  New  York  Avenue  char¬ 
rette  at  Catholic  University  also  produced  schemes  for  the  13th  and  H  and  New  York  space,  includ¬ 
ing  one  featuring  a  small  fountain  and  respectful  of  L’Enfant’s  original  design. 

There  is  some  sense  in  the  city  today  of  starting  over.  Perhaps  this  is  the  right  time  to  stand  on 
its  head  the  vaunted  planning  tradition  of  Washington,  to  say  “enough  already”  with  the  monu¬ 
ments,  let’s  focus  our  design  attention  on  commercial  strips,  building  plazas,  shopping  streets,  and 
intersections,  not  just  in  downtown,  but  in  Cleveland  Park,  Capitol  Hill  and  Anacostia,  on  Georgia 
Avenue,  H  Street  Northeast,  and  the  like. 

Again,  Elbert  Peets  said  it  best.  He  wrote  in  1937: 

‘This  concentration  of  monuments,  memorials,  museums,  and  endless  depart¬ 
ment  office  buildings  in  the  central  area  of  the  city  is  destroying  the  city,  as  a 
work  of  art  and  as  a  social  entity.  .  .  .  [P]eople  who  do  not  love  the  life  of  a 
city  .  .  .  obviously  cannot  see  how  far  we  are  getting  from  L’Enfant’s  conception. 

For  he  dreamed,  not  of  a  beautiful  court  of  honor,  but  of  a  beautiful  city.” 


33 


THE  NEIGHBORHOOD  VISION: 

RAISING  COMMUNITY  PRIDE  AND  STUDENT  INVOLVEMENT 

Linda  Hillard  Moody 


Raising  Community  Pride!  As  the  representative  to  the  District  of  Columbia  Board  of  Education 
for  the  eighth  ward,  I  chose  as  a  theme  “Changing  Attitudes  and  Improving  the  Image  of  Our  Com¬ 
munity.”  How  little  did  I  know  that  my  theme  would  be  so  closely  related  to  a  topic  four  years  later. 

In  the  District  of  Columbia,  where  eyes  and  ears  from  across  this  world  watch  us  every  day  on 
the  evening  news,  we  have  an  image  problem  based  upon  other  people’s  perception  of  us.  Percep¬ 
tions  are  key  in  understanding  and  believing  what  you  hear.  They  are  key  in  our  developing  a  posi¬ 
tive  image.  They  are  key  in  our  developing  a  vision,  and  ultimately  important  to  an  individual’s 
ability  to  raise  the  level  of  pride  in  his  or  her  community.  Truly,  an  individual  must  develop  pride 
and  self-respect  within  himself  before  assisting  a  neighborhood  develop  its  vision.  You  must  have  a 
vision  of  your  own. 

However,  I  believe  there  are  several  factors  which  help  individuals  develop  a  vision  and  instill 
pride.  Globally  speaking,  the  environment  serves  as  the  overlying  factor,  encompassing  several 
smaller  factors,  such  as  air  quality,  streets,  highways,  housing,  office  buildings,  landscaping,  the  econ¬ 
omy,  jobs,  health  care,  and  architecture,  to  name  a  few. 

Recognizing  that  the  D.C.  Public  Schools  cannot  provide  all  of  these  experiences  to  our  stu¬ 
dents,  I  do  believe  we  provide  an  abundance.  I  believe  we  can  provide  a  significant  contribution  to 
the  Nation’s  Capital  and  continue  to  look  ahead  in  order  to  make  sure  we  do  not  destroy  existing 
buildings  with  beautiful  architecture,  by  teaching  respect  for  our  built  heritage  and  by  taking  action. 

One  of  the  greatest  contributions  to  the  architectural  archives  in  this  city  was  the  restoration  of 
the  Sumner  School.  It  was  the  first  high  school  for  “colored”  children  in  this  city,  built  in  the  late 
1800s.  In  the  1980s,  the  D.C.  Board  of  Education  entered  into  a  creative  partnership  with  Siegal  and 
Company  to  restore  Sumner.  Today,  it  is  used  as  a  museum  exhibiting  art  of  all  kinds,  providing  a 
meeting  and  wedding  hall,  and  generating  revenue  to  the  D.C.  Public  Schools.  The  Board  of  Educa¬ 
tion  and  the  city  take  great  pride  in  this  accomplishment. 

In  1994,  we  entered  into  another  creative  venture  with  the  H  Street  Development  Corporation 
to  rehabilitate  the  interior  of  the  first  D.C.  Board  of  Education  Office  building,  the  Franklin  School. 
Siegal  and  Company  restored  the  exterior  of  Franklin  School  in  1991  at  no  cost  to  us.  We  have 
offered  the  Franklin  School  building  to  the  city,  as  our  contribution  to  the  Bicentennial  in  year  2000. 

The  D.C.  Board  of  Education  also  recognized  the  importance  of  students  taking  pride  in  their 
respective  neighborhoods  and  reaching  out  to  other  parts  of  this  city.  In  1992  we  made  it  mandatory 
for  our  9th-12th  graders  to  perform  100  hours  of  community  service  in  order  to  graduate  from  high 
school.  Community  involvement  broadens  knowledge  of  one’s  surroundings,  and  places  the  individ¬ 
ual  in  an  environment  in  which  he  or  she  never  thought  he  could  become  interested.  Community 
service  instills  a  sense  of  pride  in  your  community,  and  makes  you  want  to  be  involved  in  making 
your  community  better. 

Through  a  public-private  partnership  and  the  Outreach  Scholarship  Inner  City  High  School 
Program  at  Catholic  University’s  School  of  Architecture  and  Planning,  a  number  of  our  students 
have  participated  in  these  Urban  Design  Charrettes.  Thus,  they  have  had  an  introduction  to  commu¬ 
nity  design  and  public  policy  and  in  turn,  will  be  better  able  to  be  leaders  and  decision-makers  as  citi¬ 
zens  of  their  communities. 

Through  the  many  services  provided  in  this  city,  a  restructuring  of  priorities,  and  changing 
negative  attitudes  to  “yes  we  can  attitudes,”  we  will  successfully  raise  community  pride  through  stu¬ 
dent  involvement. 


34 


LEARNING  FROM  GEORGIA  AVENUE: 
BEFORE  LEARNING  FROM  LAS  VEGAS 

Harry  G.  Robinson  III 


Though  not  “professionally  informed — perversely  brillant”  as  Learning  from  Las  Vegas  was 
described  by  the  Yale  Review,  the  lessons  that  my  father  taught  me  about  reading  the  City  were  bril¬ 
lant  and  directed  me  to  a  relationship  with  the  language  of  human  interaction  and  urban  places. 
Nowhere  were  the  lessons  more  transparent,  though  layered,  than  in  the  Nation’s  Capital  of  my 
youth.  (Discussion  of  how  his  father  transferred  an  understanding  of  the  City,  which  provided  a  life¬ 
long  relationship  with  urbanism;  the  experiences  of  traveling  with  his  father  around  Washington  in 
his  moving  company  and  his  work  in  the  Main  Post  Office,  which  provided  an  indelible  recall  of  the 
City’s  streets  and  neighborhoods.) 

Though  the  intersecting  grand  avenues  of  L’Enfant’s  plan  were  dominant  elements  in  the 
City’s  structure,  it  was  the  fine  grain  residential  areas  and  their  attached  neighborhood  retail  areas 
that  started  my  romance  with  the  corner  stores,  which  generated  a  very  special  interaction  between 
their  activity  and  the  City’s  streetscape.  Of  course  this  was  before  the  opaque,  steel-screened  store¬ 
fronts  that  became  vogue  after  the  1968  civil  disorders.  It  was  a  time  of  openness  when  the  relation¬ 
ship  between  the  street  and  the  store  interiors  was  an  essential  marketing  strategy  and  an  important 
link  in  the  social  chain  of  a  blockfront.  Like  the  African  marketplace,  the  corner-store  tradition  pro¬ 
vided  a  formal  system  of  communication — “the  drum” — and  the  backbone  of  a  merchant  class. 
From  litde  stores  great  enterprises  grew.  (Discussion  of  corner  stores  that  stabilized  communities, 
gave  them  their  character,  and  evolved  into  other  enterprises;  the  difference  between  the  resident 
shopkeepers  and  absentee  merchants.) 

It  was  not  by  chance  that  neighborhood  retail  facilities  laced  the  City  in  a  defined  pattern.  A 
review  of  the  City’s  zoning  ordinances  reveals  continous  systems  of  commercial  land  uses.  (Discus¬ 
sion  of  City’s  organization;  how  neighborhood  commericial  frontage  creates  extended  nodes  that 
support  and  bring  life  to  their  contexts;  the  evolution  of  Georgia  Avenue,  which  was  generated  by 
the  dynamics  of  regional  change.) 

Georgia  Avenue’s  pattern  language  was  loosely  directed  by  government  regulation.  With  that 
freedom  evolved  a  vernacular  advertising  idiom  and  tempo,  absent  from  the  intervention  of  Madi¬ 
son  Avenue.  Goods,  not  a  proliferation  of  words,  advanced  the  meaning  of  each  store  and  through 
the  transparency  of  the  front,  unfolded  the  layers  of  visual  expression.  Where  housing  interrupted 
the  commercial  pattern,  the  front  porch  continued  the  tradition  of  communication.  (Discussion  of 
neighborhood  communication  and  the  socio-spatial  structure  it  generates  and  supports;  detailed 
description  of  the  pattern  language;  generational  transitions  and  evolution  of  place(s).) 

This  statement  asserts  the  dominance  of  intimate  pedestrian-scale  experiences  as  the  cultural 
and  socio-spatial  memory  of  Washington,  D.C.  It  does  not  negate  the  importance  of  the  city’s  plan 
organization;  however,  it  places  plan  organization  in  the  larger  context  of  way  finding.  (Compare 
wayfinding,  how  the  plan  organizes  that  exercise,  and  how  fine  grain  texture  creates  those  memo¬ 
rable  qualities) . 


35 


THE  FOUR  STREET  TRADITIONS  AND  THEIR  CONSEQUENCES 

Joseph  Passonneau 


Street  Patterns  in  History 

The  Medieval  City 

In  the  earliest  cities,  streets  were  the  spaces  left  over  between  buildings.  The  earliest  cities  grew 
so  slowly  that  their  citizens  did  not  anticipate  growth  and  streets  were  not  planned.  The  Greeks  and 
the  Romans  changed  that.  When  Rome  collapsed,  however,  western  civilization  collapsed  with  it. 
Medieval  cities,  like  earlier  cities,  developed  slowly  and  illustrate  the  ancient  tradition.  Gallipoli,  an 
ancient  Italian  seaport,  is  one  example. 

The  Grid  City 

The  rectilinear  grid,  the  simplest  street  pattern,  is  the  mark  of  the  colonial  city.  One  of  the  earli¬ 
est  planned  cities  was  Priene,  a  Greek  colony  on  the  Anatolian  coast,  laid  out  on  an  easily  subdivided 
grid.  The  grid  was  interrupted  by  open  spaces  for  public  gatherings:  market  places,  a  ceremonial 
center  for  governmental  and  religious  buildings,  theaters,  and  arenas  for  sporting  events.  Beyond 
these  public  spaces,  the  grid  was  undifferentiated;  urban  densities  were  constant  from  center  to 
outer  edge. 

An  example  is  the  plan  of  Lucca,  in  Tuscany,  which  shows  the  Roman  camp,  the  medieval 
walled  town,  and  the  Renaissance  fortified  city.  The  Romans  were  the  great  colonizers,  as  they  laid 
out  military  camps  throughout  the  western  world.  The  Roman  camp  was  a  walled  rectangle,  with 
north,  south,  east,  and  west  entrances  opening  to  a  main  north/south  street  and  a  main  east/west 
street.  The  camps  became  towns,  and  the  form  of  the  Roman  camp  persists  in  cities  throughout  the 
former  Roman  Empire. 

With  the  industrial  revolution  cities  began  to  grow  rapidly.  Because  the  rectilinear  grid  is  that 
pattern  most  easily  divided  into  a  variety  of  developable  lots,  it  was  the  preferred  pattern  during  the 
late  19th  and  early  20th  centuries.  Manhattan  and  Barcelona,  when  they  expanded  beyond  their 
medieval  walls,  were  typical. 

The  Baroque  City 

Broad  avenues,  and  the  public  open  spaces  and  public  buildings  they  connect,  are  the  mark  of 
the  Baroque  city.  The  Roman  emperors  cut  large  forums  into  their  capital  city,  but  Pope  Sixtus  V  was 
the  first  person  to  carve  a  ceremonial  structure  into  a  city  in  a  pattern  of  avenues  and  public  places 
that  persists  today.  While  Nero  wrote  no  environmental  impact  statements,  and  Baron  Hausman’s 
methods  in  19th-century  Paris  were  ruthless,  Sixtus  reshaped  Rome  following  rules  more  demanding 
than  those  followed  by  urban  planners  and  highway  builders  today. 

But  retrofitting  existing  cities  to  Baroque  patterns  was  not  easy.  Baroque  planning  was  best 
applied  to  expanding  cities,  such  as  Edinborough  New  Town,  and  to  new  cities  such  as  Washington, 
D.C.,  as  planned  by  Pierre  L’Enfant.  The  practice  of  lining  pathways  with  rows  of  closely  spaced  trees 
goes  back  at  least  to  the  Renaissance  and,  perhaps,  to  pre-Christian  Rome.  The  tree-lined  edges  of 
the  late  19th-century  and  early  20th-century  Baroque  avenues  create  elegant  and  efficient  urban 
spaces. 


36 


The  Automobile  City 

The  streets  in  the  automobile  city  are  differentiated,  with  design  dependent  on  speed,  capacity 
and  function  of  the  traffic  that  the  streets  are  to  handle.  Each  of  the  early  street  patterns — Medieval, 
grid,  Baroque — wa s  arranged  to  provide  pathways  for  people  walking  and  for  buggies  and  carts.  The 
private  automobile  changed  the  demands  on  streets,  dramatically. 

Because  auto  traffic  is  dangerous,  menacing,  modern  neighborhood  streets  are  circuitous,  mak¬ 
ing  through  travel  difficult.  Radburn,  New  Jersey  sets  the  best  pattern.  Because  other  modes  (walk¬ 
ing,  bicycles,  street  cars)  do  not  mix  well  with  autos  and  trucks,  high  speed,  high  volume  roads  are 
grade  separated  and  allow  only  limited  access  from  local  streets. 

The  early  parkways  were  the  first  streets  designed  expressly  in  response  to  the  demands  of  auto¬ 
mobile  travel.  The  early  American  parkways  are  the  20th-century  equivalent  to  the  19th-century  tree- 
lined  avenues,  with  edges  landscaped  to  protect  adjoining  neighborhoods  and  to  provide  pleasure  to 
auto  drivers  and  their  passengers. 


Consequences:  The  Problems  of  Fitting  Ancient  Streets  to  Modern  Traffic 

The  Medieval  City 

The  tortured  alignments  of  streets  in  the  heart  of  cities  dating  to  the  Middle  Ages  defied  easy 
adaptation  to  automobiles.  Amsterdam,  shordy  after  World  War  II,  banned  automobiles  from  its 
principal  shopping  street,  and  later  extended  the  ban.  Munich,  in  anticipation  of  the  Olympic 
Games,  has  most  elaborately  tailored  the  design  and  management  of  the  streets  in  its  ancient  center 
to  the  automobile  age.  The  principal  shopping  streets  are  reserved  for  exclusive  pedestrian  use. 
There  are  also  auto/street  car  streets,  pedestrian/ street  car  streets,  exclusive  transit  ways  and  exclu¬ 
sive  bikeways.  There  are  also  neighborhood  streets  for  autos  and  pedestrians,  called  “woonorfs,” 
where  the  pedestrian  has  absolute  right-of-way. 

Except  for  Boston  and  several  others,  few  American  cities  have  Munich’s  problems.  Bostonians 
are  reputed  to  have  laid  out  their  streets  on  patterns  established  by  their  ancestors’  cows.  Streets  in 
old  Boston  are  resistant  to  through  traffic,  and  this  resistance  is  gradually  being  institutionalized  by 
excluding  auto  traffic. 

The  cities  of  Western  Europe  have  shown  how  early  street  patterns  can  be  modified  to  tame  the 
automobile,  where  there  is  enough  political  pressure  to  force  this  change.  In  summary,  Medieval 
street  patterns  are  so  ill-adapted  to  auto  traffic  that  these  cities  have  been  forced  to  discipline  auto 
and  truck  traffic,  drastically.  The  Germans  call  this  a  long,  unpronounceable  name,  translated  as 
“Automobile  Taming.” 

The  Grid  City 

Few  grid  cities  have  made  much  progress  in  auto-taming.  While  the  procedures  and  technolo¬ 
gies  are  available,  the  political  will  is  not  Chicago  is  typical.  The  city  streets,  laid  out  on  the  grid 
established  by  the  Northwest  Ordinance  of  1787,  are  easily  adaptable  to  traffic  modification,  and  an 
elaborate  plan  was  instituted  by  the  Planning  Office  shortly  after  World  War  II.  However,  these  plans 
modified  the  streets  in  such  a  way  that  neighborhood  travel,  as  well  as  through  travel,  was  con¬ 
strained,  and  citizens  rejected  the  city’s  proposals. 

Few  Americans  are  ready  to  give  up  their  right  to  drive  their  automobiles  at  high  speed  in  all 
directions.  This  is  too  bad.  Practically  all  neighborhoods  laid  out  in  the  late  19th  century  were 
planned  on  closely  spaced  grids.  These  neighborhoods  are  typically  located  immediately  surround¬ 
ing  the  centers  of  the  modern  city.  Pinned  between  massive  trip  origins  in  the  suburbs,  and  identi¬ 
cally  massive  trip  destinations  in  the  center,  they  are  inundated  with  commuter  traffic,  morning  and 


37 


evening.  Their  streets  were  laid  out  for  two-  and  four-legged  pedestrians  and  carts;  it  would  be  a  mir¬ 
acle  if  they  could  handle  large  volumes  of  large,  armor  plated  containers  traveling  at  very  high 
speed.  This  miracle  has  not  come  to  pass. 

Protected  now  by  historic  preservation  statutes,  many  of  these  late  19th-century  neighborhoods 
have  become  fashionable  and  expensive.  Large  private  investments  have  modernized  homes,  while 
retaining  their  earlier  architectural  qualities.  No  similar  public  investment  has  been  made  in  the 
streets.  By  following  Western  European  models,  grid  streets  can  be  arranged  to  inhibit  through  traf¬ 
fic  while  affecting  local  traffic  only  marginally,  increasing  local  parking  and  making  the  streets  more 
attractive.  The  street  becomes  a  forecourt  bordering  homes  along  the  street. 

The  grid,  incidentally,  is  a  fashionable  part  of  “neo-traditional”  town  design.  The  closely  spaced 
grid  is  a  fine  residential  development  pattern  and  a  fine  pedestrian  network,  but  in  the  automobile 
city,  it  must  be  detached  and  insulated  from  the  rest  of  the  network.  A  grid  has  a  lot  of  latent  capac¬ 
ity,  and  if  it  is  not  isolated,  it  can  be  a  magnet  for  large  volumes  of  through  automobile  traffic. 

The  Baroque  City 

The  Baroque  street  pattern  is,  typically,  a  grid  with  wide  often  diagonal  avenues  cut  through  the 
grid.  There  is  enough  space  in  these  rights-of-way  so  that  the  entire  street  need  not  be  abandoned  to 
auto  travel.  By  reserving  exclusive  rights-of-way  for  various  means  of  transit,  streets  can  be  managed 
to  improve  their  efficiency.  Streets  in  Madrid,  for  instance,  have  transit  rights-of-way  along  the  edges 
of  the  street,  with  space  reserved  for  transit,  taxis,  and  right  turning  vehicles.  There  is  a  problem 
where  transit  headways  are  not  short  enough  to  discourage  auto  drivers  from  entering  the  transit 
lane.  The  problem  is  resolved  in  Paris  by  “contra-flow”  bus  lanes — by  running  the  buses  in  the  oppo¬ 
site  direction  from  auto  traffic. 

The  most  completely  realized  Baroque  street  pattern  is  the  L’Enfant  Plan,  which  still  after  two 
centuries  still  shapes  the  center  of  the  National  Capital.  However,  the  automobile  age  has  not  been 
kind  to  the  L’Enfant  avenues.  For  example,  K  Street,  which  was  lined  with  mature  trees  in  1915  is 
now  bordered  by  stark  office  buildings. 

There  is  a  lot  of  space  in  those  Baroque  streets.  The  tragedy  is  that  we  could  have  it  both  ways, 
but  we  do  not.  We  could  have  streets  that  are  both  efficient  and  lovely.  The  statement  below  is  on  the 
cover  and  introduction  to  an  analysis  of  the  streets  of  central  Washington: 

“There  are  ways  to  modify  Washington’s  streets  that  would  build  on  the  18th 
century  structure  of  the  city,  restore  space  in  the  public  rights-of-way  to  their 
original  pedestrian  uses,  increase  the  capacity  of  the  streets  while  increasing  the 
speed  and  reducing  the  cost  of  travel  to  and  within  the  downtown. 

“These  objectives  can  be  realized  through  the  application  of  comparatively  sim¬ 
ple  principles  of  traffic  management  and  urban  design,  with  a  limited  amount 
of  hardware,  at  manageable  cost,  one  step  at  a  time  with  little  disruption  during 
implementation,  with  the  condition  that  long  term  curbside  parking 
be  drastically  curtailed.” 

The  Automobile  City 

After  World  War  I  and  during  the  rest  of  the  century,  increasingly  large  numbers  of  Americans 
acquired  automobiles.  Cities  expanded  rapidly  as  their  citizens  moved  further  and  further  into  low 
density  suburbs,  and  as  goods  were  increasingly  carried  by  trucks  replacing  freight  cars. 

In  1956  the  Interstate  and  Defense  Highways  Act  accelerated  suburban  expansion  by  providing 
an  armature  of  grade  separated,  limited  access  roadways,  paid  for  largely  by  the  Federal  government. 
In  Washington,  a  450-mile  network  was  laid  out,  made  up  of  seven  radial  and  four  circumferential 


38 


highways.  After  the  first  circumferential,  the  Beltway,  was  completed,  the  reaction  to  its  appearance 
and  performance  was  so  violendy  negative  that  most  of  the  rest  of  the  network  was  stricken  from  the 
region’s  plans.  Citizen  opposition  stopped  expressway  building  in  Boston,  Chicago,  Baltimore,  St. 
Paul,  New  Orleans,  Philadelphia  and  many  other  American  cities. 

Lack  of  highways  has  slowed  but  not  prevented  suburban  expansion.  No  matter  how  many 
roads  have  been  built,  congestion  has  increased  faster  than  road  building.  There  is  a  simple  reason 
for  this.  Congestion  can  be  described,  mathematically,  as  a  simple  relationship  with  the  amount  of 
travel  in  the  numerator  and  the  amount  of  road  in  the  denominator.  (That  is,  Congestion  =  Vehicle 
Miles  Traveled/Miles  of  Travel  Lanes) .  In  lay  terms,  as  the  suburbs  expand,  both  the  number  and  the 
length  of  trips  increases  faster  than  streets  can  be  built  to  serve  them — like  a  dog  chasing  its  tail. 

Consider  the  Washington  region,  which  is  typical  of  many  American  cities.  The  Washington 
suburbs  do  not  work.  It  is  a  curious  fact  that  the  American  suburb,  that  development  pattern  created 
by  and  for  automobile  travel,  is  that  part  of  the  American  city  that  does  not  work  well  as  a  transport 
network. 

In  contrast,  in  Washington  at  least,  the  center  works.  More  cars  enter  the  center  of  Washington 
during  rush  hour  (for  better  or  worse)  than  enter  any  other  American  downtown,  largely  congestion 
free  until  they  reach  the  very  center.  They  travel  primarily  on  a  transport  network  laid  out  by  a 
French  architect  in  1791. 

It  is  not  clear  whether  there  is  any  solution  to  suburban  congestion  that  would  be  acceptable  to 
suburban  citizens.  If  such  a  solution  is  found  to  exist,  it  will  combine  clusters  of  development  much 
denser  than  existing  suburban  development,  connected  by  a  network  of  closely  spaced  parkways  (not 
expressways!)  and  exclusive  transit  ways. 


39 


NOT  BY  DESIGN:  FEDERALLY  SUBSIDIZED  HOUSING, 
THE  UNPLANNED  CONSEQUENCE 

James  G.  Banks 


Decades  after  the  escalation  of  central  city  social  problems  began  reaching  crisis  proportions 
for  both  fiscal  and  political  concerns,  an  agonized  nation  continues,  in  vain,  to  search  for  solutions. 
During  the  great  depression,  the  physical  needs  of  the  poor  were  much  more  desperate  than  those 
of  today’s  poor.  Anti-social  behavior  among  yesterday’s  poor  was  neither  as  frequent  nor  as  violent  as- 
it  is  today.  The  question  seldom  posed,  but  desperately  seeking  answers  is;  “What  is  so  different  about 
today’s  impoverished  citizens  that  they  exhibit  extreme  anti-social  behavior  patterns  far  more  serious 
and  widespread  than  found  among  those  who  lived  in  more  extreme  deprivations  over  sixty  years 
ago?” 

My  observations  over  the  past  five  decades  of  work  in  central  cities  lead  me  to  conclude  that 
there  are  at  least  four  compelling  differences  between  yesterday’s  urban  poor  and  today’s  isolated 
urban  areas. 

1 .  Never  before  have  so  many  of  our  most  troubled  families  been  clustered  in  such  limited 
areas,  isolated  without  community. 

2.  Never  have  our  poor  consisted  of  predominantly  single  parent  families,  most  of  them 
women. 

3.  Never  have  so  many  of  our  poor  been  unemployed. 

4.  Communication  technology  has  brought  to  most  American  homes,  including  the  poorest 
among  us,  portrayals  of  all  of  the  extremes  of  wealth  and  violence.  The  poor  have  more  time 
to  watch  and  are  most  vulnerable  to  its  influence. 

Today’s  urban  poor  are  confined  to  limited  geographical  areas  in  large  clusters  because  of  Fed¬ 
eral  and  local  policy.  Government  has  been  a  major  force  in  isolating  today’s  poor  from  the  rest  of  us 
and,  at  least  indirectly,  for  the  emergence  of  seemingly  incurable  crisis  in  our  cities. 

When  it  began  in  1937,  public  housing  was  envisioned  as  a  stepping  stone  to  help  poor  families 
attain  independent  living.  Applicants  were  carefully  screened  to  assure  they  had  reached  a  state  of 
“readiness”  for  this  significant  new  opportunity.  Good  credit,  creditable  housekeeping,  and  stable 
family  relations  were  all  basic  requirements  for  admission. 

More  than  fifty  years  later,  public  housing  has  been  enlarged  in  many  cities  because  it  is  now 
surrounded  by  large  numbers  of  privately  owned  but  subsidized  dwellings.  Many  of  the  privately 
owned  developments  began  as  20%  subsidized,  80%  market  rate  rentals.  As  the  public  housing  pop¬ 
ulation  became  poorer  and  more  problem  ridden,  surrounding  streets  became  more  unsafe  and 
neighborhood  commercial  centers  less  attractive.  The  market  rate  renters  began  to  move  out,  and 
new  renters  at  market  rates  were  impossible  to  find.  Soon  the  owners  appealed  to  HUD  for  more 
subsidy.  The  mortgage  payments  were  in  jeopardy  and  new  subsidies  were  approved.  Gradually,  large 
areas  became  totally  subsidized.  The  profiles  of  families  in  privately  owned  subsidized  developments 
are  much  like  those  in  public  housing.  Thus,  the  isolated  clusters  became  larger  and  larger. 

The  constant  increase  in  single  parent  families  is  not  confined  to,  but  is  most  intense  in  our  iso¬ 
lated  clusters  of  impoverished  families.  Because  most  single  parent  families  are  headed  by  women  of 
child-bearing  age,  the  need  for  male  companionship  is  constant.  Thus,  the  daily  parade  of  uncom¬ 
mitted  males  is  a  constant  reminder  to  mothers  and  children  alike  of  the  uncertainty  of  tomorrow. 

Clusters  of  poor,  single-parent  families  produce: 

1 .  more  crime  than  other  areas; 

2.  more  health  problems  than  other  areas; 


40 


3.  less  educational  achievement  than  other  areas; 

4.  a  near  absence  of  a  sense  of  community; 

5.  an  ever  increasing  cadre  of  public  and  private  organizations,  some  for  profit,  some  non¬ 
profit,  engaged  in  intense  competition  for  funds  and  authority  to  ply  their  trade. 

We  must  find  ways  to: 

1.  de-cluster  our  urban  poor  and  help  them  gain  entrance  to  the  social  and  economic 
mainstream  of  our  society; 

2.  avoid  future  policy,  including  land  planning  and  housing  design,  that  predisposes  the 
urban  poor  to  further  deprivation; 

3.  correct  the  social  distentions  of  the  past  three  decades. 

City  planners  and  architectural  designers  must  embrace  “social  livability”  as  key  professional 
mandates.  The  urban  poor  must  be  protected  from  armies  of  well-meaning  “doers-of-good”  who 
measure  success  on  the  increasing  numbers  of  poor  they  see  rather  than  the  number  of  poor  who 
become  self  sufficient  Wherever  they  live,  the  urban  poor  must  be  helped  to  become  a  part  of  “com¬ 
munity.”  They  must  come  to  know  that  when  they  try,  the  community  will  help  and  success  can  be 
made  possible. 


41 


RECLAIMING  THE  PUBLIC  REALM— SPACE  AND  PLACE 


George  Latimer 


When  I  became  mayor,  the  City  of  Saint  Paul  had  experienced  an  unbroken  line  of  decline  in 
the  real  value  of  property,  and  the  bonded  indebtedness  of  the  city  was  very  high.  The  downtown  was 
in  serious  decline.  There  were  huge  holes  in  the  ground,  and  they  had  been  there  so  long  they  were 
competing  for  historic  designation.  Faced  with  these  problems,  my  job  was  clear.  I  was  to  lead  the 
way  to  reducing  debt  and  increasing  real  property  values. 

My  earliest  definition  of  what  was  good  economic  development  was  simple:  get  something  built 
and  create  jobs,  jobs,  jobs!  My  more  mature  view  is  that  economic  development  is  not  an  end  in  itself 
and  must  be  measured  by  its  ultimate  contribution  to  community  development.  The  idea  of  “sense 
of  community”  led  me  to  ask  questions  about  the  connection  between  economic  activity  and  com¬ 
munity  or  social  good.  The  issue  was  no  longer  simply  jobs,  but  jobs  for  whom,  of  what  value,  and  at 
what  cost. 

This  is  not  to  dismiss  the  way  the  whole  community  is  buoyed  by  physical  improvement  and  new 
investment.  There  is  a  real  connection,  and  this  was  especially  true  in  Saint  Paul.  The  putting  up  of 
buildings  of  any  kind  in  the  city  represents  half  the  fun  of  being  mayor.  If  you  are  lucky,  as  I  was,  a  lot 
of  that  happens.  As  a  result,  I  found  myself  invited  to  stand  in  the  picture  whenever  one  brick  was 
placed  upon  another  or  ground  was  broken.  People  begin  to  see  their  city  as  a  growing,  thriving 
place.  The  result  of  all  this  activity  is  that  the  community  has  the  impression  that  you  have  caused 
jobs  to  be  created.  If  you  do  enough  of  it,  you  start  believing  that  you  did  indeed  cause  that  develop¬ 
ment  to  occur. 

Further,  in  1989 jobs  in  Saint  Paul  were  about  evenly  divided  between  residents  and  people  who 
lived  outside  the  city  limits.  In  addition,  one-third  of  the  people  who  lived  in  Saint  Paul  traveled  to 
the  suburbs  or  Minneapolis  to  work.  That  is  a  very  healthy  mix  of  activity,  which  is  not  a  usual  charac¬ 
teristic  of  older,  central  cities.  Traditionally,  such  cities  have  job  centers  where  people  who  do  not  live 
in  the  city  work.  In  Saint  Paul,  we  had  about  one  and  a  half  jobs  per  household.  Moreover,  the  most 
recent  evidence  suggested  that  the  value  of  the  jobs  in  Saint  Paul  was  somewhat  higher  than  the  jobs 
in  Minneapolis  and  significantly  higher  than  those  in  the  suburbs. 

Thus,  there  has  been  much  balance  in  the  ecomonic  development  picture  of  Saint  Paul.  This  is 
especially  true  when  that  economic  development  is  combined  with  the  massive  reinvestment  in 
affordable  housing.  What  had  driven  me  in  the  latter  years  was  the  need  to  link  development  with 
those  people  who  have  historically  been  left  out  in  prosperous  times.  John  F.  Kennedy  notwithstand¬ 
ing,  a  rising  tide  does  not  lift  all  boats  unless  we  take  care  that  all  boats  be  included  in  the  ocean. 
Thus,  from  1981  forward,  a  good  deal  of  my  effort,  sometimes  unsuccessful,  had  been  aimed  at  con¬ 
necting  growth  with  opportunity:  opportunity  for  the  poor,  the  young,  people  of  color,  and  the  dis¬ 
enfranchised.  The  BOSS  Program,  the  displaced  workers  program,  and  the  Transitions  Program  for 
the  homeless  were  all  part  of  the  effort.  The  HHH  Job  Corps,  which  was  established  before  1981,  was 
another  program  Saint  Paul  promoted  in  an  effort  to  ensure  that  all  people  would  have  a  stake  in 
the  future.  (Or,  as  I  sometimes  say,  that  all  God’s  children  get  to  sing  in  the  choir.) 

The  Southeast  Asian  Initiative,  conceived  in  the  mid-1980s,  was  an  attempt  to  bring  to  our 
newest  Americans  opportunity  for  self-sufficiency.  The  program  called  Prepare  Saint  Paul  was  con¬ 
ceived  in  1986,  to  be  launched  in  1990.  It  attempted  to  reach  the  youngest  of  our  people,  those  in 
school,  and  to  prepare  them  so  that  they  would  have  the  same  opportunity  others  enjoyed.  In  Saint 
Paul  today,  efforts  are  underway  at  every  level  to  ensure  that  the  youngest,  poorest,  and  the  newest 
Americans  will  have  hope.  How  well  we  succeed  will  be  the  ultimate  moral  test  of  the  success  of  the 
efforts  that  we  call  economic  development. 

Saint  Paul  is  also  a  city  of  the  kind  of  special  places  that  all  of  our  favorite  cities  have.  Yi-fu  Tuan, 
a  geographer,  has  suggested  that  while  people  view  “space”  as  unknown,  “place”  is  what  is  created 


42 


when  people  add  history  and  human  experience  to  their  environment.  The  generations  of  people 
who  lived  in  Saint  Paul  imbued  the  city  with  a  robust  “sense  of  place.”  One  of  my  favorite  features  of 
this  sense  of  place  is  a  result  of  the  arts  community. 

If  you  believe,  as  I  do,  that  the  arts  and  artist  are  essential  to  a  great  city,  then  you  will  agree 
1985  was  a  good  year  for  Saint  Paul.  Consider  the  way  the  year  started:  In  January  of  1985,  the  $45 
million  Ordway  Music  Theater  opened.  The  Ordway  is  home  for  the  rapidly  growing  Minnesota 
Opera  Company,  the  Minnesota  Orchestra,  the  Schubert  Club  Series  (which  happens  to  be  the  old¬ 
est,  continuing  music  series  west  of  New  York  City),  and  the  internationally  renowned  Saint  Paul 
Chamber  Orchestra.  The  dream  of  Sally  Ordway  Irvine,  this  magnificent  hall  was  built  by  Saint  Paul 
born  Ben  Thompson,  a  highly  regarded  architect  It  was  built  in  a  way  that  respected  the  historic 
Landmark  Square  where  it  resides.  The  interior  of  the  hall  has  the  look  and  feel  of  a  very  elegant  liv¬ 
ing  room  for  all  the  people  of  the  city  of  Saint  Paul.  If  I  were  pressed  to  name  one  single  building 
which  most  altered  the  downtown — or  the  whole  city — of  Saint  Paul  more  than  any  other,  it  would 
surely  be  the  Ordway.  Best  of  all,  it  was  built  entirely  with  private  funds.  When  I  was  asked  to  open 
the  theater  and  asked  to  give  a  few  comments,  I  said  that  the  city  had  litde  or  nothing  to  do  with  the 
building  of  Ordway.  The  mayor’s  contribution  had  been  to  get  out  of  the  way  “so  the  rich  people 
could  build  a  beautiful  music  hall.”  (  The  rich  people,  bless  them,  hate  to  be  called  that) 

The  World  Theater  also  opened.  This  was  the  home  of  American  Public  Radio’s  Prairie  Home 
Companion  hosted  by  Garrison  Keillor,  a  show  heard  throughout  the  whole  country  every  Saturday. 
In  addition,  Minnesota  Public  Radio,  the  producers  of  the  show,  built  their  headquarters  and  studio 
near  the  World.  The  Actor’s  Theater,  home  of  a  great  professional  repertory  theater,  opened.  In  this 
case,  although  most  of  the  money  was  raised  privately,  the  city  of  Saint  Paul  did  assist  by  the  use  of 
revenue  bonds,  and  the  state  legislature  contributed  funds.  We  also  completed  and  occupied  the 
Lowertown  Lofts,  a  29-unit  artist  studio  and  housing  cooperative  for  Lowertown  artists.  And  if  all  that 
was  not  enough,  the  television  station  KTCA  committed  to  building  its  telecenter  in  Saint  Paul.  This 
brought  the  home  of  one  of  nation’s  premier  public  television  stations  to  Lowertown. 

Finally,  the  Jerome  Hill  Film  Theater  was  opened  in  the  old  Burlington  Northern  building,  now 
called  the  First  Trust  Center.  This  brought  the  total  to  five,  an  astonishing  number  of  new  places  to 
open  in  one  year.  But  remember,  these  were  additions  to  a  considerable  collection  of  interesting 
buildings  and  places.  The  Cathedral  and  the  State  Capital  frame  the  skyline  of  a  city  that  has  saved 
valuable  historic  buildings,  including  the  Landmark  Center,  the  Depot,  the  J.J.  Hill  mansion  and  the 
Historical  Society  building.  In  addition,  Saint  Paul  is  the  home  of  the  Science  Museum  and  Omni 
Theater,  and  the  more  recently  completed  projects  such  as  the  State  Historical  Museum.  The  renais¬ 
sance  of  the  arts  in  Saint  Paul  is  clearly  in  full  bloom.  Historic  Saint  Paul  has  been  assured  of  a  strong 
presence  for  the  arts  well  into  the  21st  century. 

Skeptics  might  argue  that  a  good  bowling  alley  would  be  a  more  helpful  contribution  to  down¬ 
town  life  than  the  flourishing  of  the  arts.  These  are  the  same  people  that  contend  that  arts  are  a  frill, 
somehow  unconnected  with  what  they  see  as  “real  life.”  My  response  to  that  is  that  I  think  it  would  be 
great  to  have  a  bowling  alley  or  two  in  downtown.  Indeed,  a  great  city  should  have  many  nights  of  the 
type  I  observed  a  number  of  years  ago  when  Pinky  Zukerman  was  playing  the  fiddle  at  one  end  of 
arts’  strip  one  hour  after  Garrison  Keillor  had  completed  his  immensely  popular  radio  show  at  the 
other  end  of  the  strip,  and  All-Star  Wrestling  was  drawing  its  fans  at  the  Civic  Center  behind  the  Ord¬ 
way  Theater.  All-Star  Wrestling  and  great  chamber  orchestra  music,  cheek-by-jowl,  so  to  speak,  at  the 
center  of  our  city — that’s  good  stuff.  That  diversity  is  what  urban  centers  have  represented  to  mil¬ 
lions  of  people  all  over  the  world  for  centuries.  It  is  the  very  reason  people  want  to  be  a  part  of  a  city. 

Economists  can  demonstrate  the  ripple  effect  of  dollars  invested  in  the  arts.  Clearly,  the  con¬ 
struction  w'ork  alone  represented  millions  of  dollars  of  payroll.  In  addition,  the  tourists  who  come 
into  town  for  the  arts  number  more  than  a  million  per  year  in  Saint  Paul.  Tourists  tend  to  spend 
more  money  on  lodging,  food,  and  retail  sales  than  do  our  residents.  I  persist  in  the  belief,  however, 
that  more  important  than  the  construction  or  tourism  dollars,  is  the  spirit  which  the  arts  and  artists 
bring  to  urban  centers. 


43 


The  arts  touch  all  of  us.  I  have  seen  history  theater  productions  at  the  F.T.  Weyerhouser  Audito¬ 
rium  which  dramatized  the  hard  lives  and  enduring  qualities  of  farm  women  in  Minnesota.  I  have 
seen  the  conflicts  between  the  Italian  and  the  Swedish  immigrants  in  the  city’s  historic  Swede  Hollow 
dramatized  to  the  intense  enjoyment  and  involvement  of  their  descendants.  The  arts,  at  their  best, 
touch  every  corner  of  our  lives  and  every  part  of  our  city.  The  artists  touch  the  sense  of  wonder  that 
is  in  every  one  of  us;  they  give  words  to  our  grief,  and  expression  to  our  joy.  Children  learn  what  life 
is  about  through  the  arts.  The  rest  of  us  experience  life  in  deeper  and  more  complex  ways  because 
of  the  insights  of  the  artist.  To  put  it  plainly,  life  without  art  would  be  a  barren,  sterile  experience. 
And  that  is  the  ultimate  justification  for  promoting  the  arts  in  the  heart  of  our  city. 

In  different  ways,  the  natural  architecture  of  the  river  valley  and  the  19th-century  environment 
of  Lowertown  touches  and  expands  our  sense  of  humanity  just  as  the  arts  do.  There  is  a  certain  irony 
in  our  riverfront  development  efforts,  in  that  we  needed  to  suffer  the  loss  of  one  of  our  oldest  indus¬ 
tries — American  Hoist  and  Derrrick — before  the  full  potential  of  the  riverfront  area  could  be  pur¬ 
sued.  Similarly,  across  the  river  from  where  Amhoist  was  located,  we  had  to  suffer  the  closing  of  the 
Harvest  States  grain  terminals  in  order  to  clear  the  land.  After  that,  we  were  able  to  recapture  the 
special  historic  quality  of  the  riverfront,  which  pictures  from  the  middle  of  the  1800s  clearly  show. 

The  way  was  cleared  to  connect  the  Saint  Paul  downtown  riverfront  with  Hidden  Falls  and 
Crosby  on  one  side  of  the  river,  and  to  Lilydale  on  the  other — to  extend  the  natural  environment 
into  the  built-up  and  highly  commercialized  environment  of  the  downtown  in  a  way  few  cities  enjoy. 
At  the  outset,  our  objective  was  to  avoid  the  models  used  in  other  cities,  such  as  Baltimore’s  Harbor 
Place,  because,  although  they  are  admirable  prototypes,  they  do  not  match  the  history  or  economy 
of  Saint  Paul.  It  seemed  to  me  that  for  Saint  Paul,  we  would  want  a  more  natural  and  publicly  accessi¬ 
ble  riverfront. 

This  same  impulse  to  redevelop  an  historic  but  nearly  abandoned  feature  of  Saint  Paul’s  land¬ 
scape  drove  our  efforts  in  Lowertown.  The  dream  was  to  revitalize  this  historic  warehouse  section  of 
the  downtown  that  used  to  bustle  with  the  activity  of  shipping  and  river  barges.  The  area  presented  a 
classic  architectural  base  on  which  to  achieve  a  meld  of  the  historic  with  modern  urban  environ¬ 
ment.  Among  the  ways  we  hoped  to  be  faithful  to  the  history  was  to  keep  demolition  to  a  minimum, 
restoring  buildings  whenever  possible.  At  the  same  time,  we  wanted  to  provide  living,  working,  recre¬ 
ation,  and  other  facilities  for  a  whole  human  family,  not  just  one  socio-economic  group.  We  suc¬ 
ceeded,  at  least  in  part.  It  is  little  noted,  but  much  of  the  housing  in  Lowertown  is  subsidized. 
Indeed,  the  city’s  first  major  project  for  the  homeless  is  in  an  historic  building  in  Lowertown.  I  am 
very  proud  of  that 

Lowertown  was  intended  to  be  the  link  with  the  past  and  the  promise  of  the  future.  It  was  Saint 
Paul’s  unpolished  gem.  In  the  plans  for  redevelopment,  we  saw  the  vision  for  a  new  way  of  urban  life. 
We  approached  the  foundations  to  ask  for  funds  to  help  us  revitalize,  with  the  goals  of  meeting  the 
needs  of  the  people,  not  the  needs  of  the  buildings.  Much  of  that  vision  is  now  realized. 

Lowertown  is  one  example  of  an  attempt  to  celebrate  and  reaffirm  one  of  the  special  places  in 
Saint  Paul.  How  well  has  Saint  Paul  done  with  that  kind  of  celebration?  Have  we  used  our  spaces  to 
imaginative  and  harmonious  ways?  I  think  we  have  done  marvelously  well.  There  are,  however, 
places  I  would  definitely  do  over  differently  if  I  had  the  chance,  such  as  the  gray  monolith  exterior  of 
Town  Square.  But  I  am  not  alone  in  thinking  that  Saint  Paul  has  done  especially  well  with  the  cele¬ 
bration  of  special  places.  Surely  the  several  million  people  who  visit  our  theaters  or  science  museum 
think  so  too.  So  does  Ralph  Burgard. 

Ralph  Burgard  moved  to  Saint  Paul  in  1956  to  head  the  Council  of  Arts  and  Sciences.  In  1961, 
not  long  before  he  left  Saint  Paul  to  move  to  New  York  City,  Burgard  wrote  his  vision  of  what  Saint 
Paul  could  be  like  in  the  21st  century.  He  imagined  a  beautiful  and  exciting  city  could  grow  from  the 
drab,  colorless  place  he  knew.  He  wanted  flowers  and  new  street  lamps,  parks  with  festivals,  and 
many  more  fountains.  He  wrote  the  1961  memo,  he  said,  because  he  loved  Saint  Paul  enough  to 
want  to  improve  it.  The  chief  purpose  of  his  suggestions  were  “to  stimulate  the  use  of  two  essential 
ingredients  in  the  rebuilding  of  our  city;  imagination  and  good  taste.  At  one  time,  only  scholars,  kings, 


44 


and  the  aristocracy  concerned  themselves  with  these  matters.  Within  the  last  20  years,  it  has  become 
obvious  that  they  are  essential  to  the  social  and  economic  survival  of  our  American  cities.  Without 
them,  we  lose  our  money  and  whatever  hope  we  may  have  had  in  the  future  of  an  urban  civilization.” 
Some  years  later  he  also  envisoned  more  citizens  involved  in  policy-making  and  in  downtown  devel¬ 
opment,  private  corporations  funding  the  arts  and  culture,  and  finally,  a  town  fool  who  would  convey 
humor  and  irreverence  into  a  city  life. 


45 


REINVENTING  URBAN  VILLAGE: 
LOWERTOWN,  A  RESPONSE  TO  EDGE  CITIES’  CHALLENGE 

Weiming  Lu 


The  Challenges 

Fifteen  years  ago,  Lowertown,  the  historic  heart  of  St.  Paul,  was  a  hodge-podge  of  warehouses, 
parking  lots,  and  railroad  yards,  with  a  beautiful  but  poorly  utilized  riverfront  and  a  number  of  run¬ 
down  historic  buildings.  George  Latimer,  our  former  mayor,  and  the  McKnight  Foundation  together 
visualized  rebuilding  the  district  for  new  jobs,  tax  base,  and  housing.  The  foundation  set  aside  $10 
million  to  be  used  in  a  program  to  attract  $100  million  of  investment,  our  original  goal. 

In  late  1978,  a  private  nonprofit  corporation  was  created,  headed  by  a  blue-ribbon  board  and 
supported  by  a  small  staff,  to  administer  the  program.  The  resulting  Lowertown  Redevelopment  Cor¬ 
poration  (LRC),  is  a  design  center  for  generating  ideas,  a  development  bank  offering  gap  financing  in  the 
form  of  loans  and  loan  guarantees,  and  a  marketing  office  for  the  180  acre  area.  In  partnership  with 
the  city  and  the  private  sector,  LRC  has  planned  and  executed  a  development  strategy  for  the  area. 

Reinventing  Urban  Village 

The  redevelopment  program  envisions  Lowertown  becoming  a  viable  “urban  village,”  a  desir¬ 
able  place  to  live  and  work.  The  urban  village  we  are  advocating  is  not  another  new  town  or  experi¬ 
mental  city.  It  is  not  a  way  to  reorganize  their  spread  city,  as  Phoenix  is  attempting  to  do.  It  is  not  a 
“pedestrian  pocket,”  even  though  there  is  equal  emphasis  on  pedestrian  amenities.  Furthermore, 
there  is  a  separation  of  pedestrians  and  vehicles  through  the  extension  of  the  downtown  skyway  sys¬ 
tem  to  the  area.  Light  rail  transit  has  been  included  in  our  plan,  and  a  new  downtown  shuttle  is  now 
a  reality.  It  is  not  a  “social  engineering”  effort  to  create  a  Utopian  city.  However,  there  is  a  deliberate 
attempt  to  generate  a  diverse  mix  of  incomes,  families,  and  housing  types  as  geography  and  finances 
permit.  It  also  strives  to  provide  the  needed  neighborhood  amenities.  It  attempts  to  create  more  jobs 
in  the  central  city,  which  will  be  accessible  to  all;  it  attempts  to  create  jobs  with  a  future.  It  does  not 
depend  upon  a  mega-project,  although  we  do  have  one  large  project  completed  in  the  early  phase  of 
the  program.  It  depends  more  upon  effective  linking  of  incremental  growth  over  a  period  of  time  to 
achieve  the  larger  vision. 

Energy  conservation  is  one  of  our  basic  goals  for  the  urban  village.  Old  warehouses  have  been 
rehabilitated  according  to  energy  codes  to  save  energy.  District  heating  has  been  extended  through¬ 
out  the  district.  A  study  was  also  made  on  solar  accesses.  The  arts  have  been  an  important  piece  of 
the  “urban  village.”  Thus,  artists’  housing  at  affordable  rent  levels  and  purchase  prices  were  pro¬ 
vided.  Galleries  were  encouraged.  Art  and  music  festivals  were  held.  Extra  effort  was  made  to  encour¬ 
age  public  television  and  independent  film  makers  to  locate  here.  Many  of  these  efforts  have 
brought  solid  results.  Rediscovering  our  waterfront  along  the  Mississippi  is  also  our  objective.  Here 
we  are  above  all  interested  in  making  the  river  corridor  more  open,  more  green,  and  more  accessi¬ 
ble  to  all. 

Marketing  Program 

LRC  marketed  Lowertown’s  possibilities  aggressively,  with  a  broad  program  including  market 
research,  marketing  brochures,  investment  seminars,  tours,  and  newsletters.  Above  all,  face-to-face 
meetings  were  held  with  prospective  individual  investors  to  arouse  their  interest.  Today,  a  real  neigh¬ 
borhood  is  emerging,  offering  a  wide  range  of  housing  choices  and  such  desirable  amenities  as  a 
Farmer’s  Market,  YMCA,  new  park,  restaurants,  cinemas,  shops,  skyways,  and  district  heating. 


46 


The  Arts 


LRC  and  city  leaders  have  taken  great  care  to  support  and  expand  Lowertown’s  attractiveness  as 
a  haven  for  artists,  photographers,  and  writers.  Today  the  area  has  a  number  of  art  galleries,  as  well 
as  arts,  crafts  and  music  festivals,  and  one  of  the  largest  communities  of  working  artists  in  the  nation. 
Having  attracted  public  television  station  KTCA  and  Independent  Television  Services  (ITVS),  a  cre¬ 
ation  of  PBS,  to  locate  in  the  district,  Lowertown  has  also  become  an  important  new  regional  center 
for  video,  film,  communications,  architectural,  graphic  design,  advertising,  and  related  creative 
industry  firms. 

Economic  Impacts 

Lowertown  is  a  good  location  for  businesses  of  all  sizes.  With  two  business  incubators,  low  cost 
unique  space,  and  historic  charm,  it  also  attracts  many  small  businesses,  while  giant  office  buildings 
beautifully  restored  like  the  First  Trust  also  attract  large  firms  to  stay  or  to  move  here.  The  are  a 
being  at  the  fringe  of  downtown  has  ample  parking.  The  city  and  developers,  in  response  to  needs, 
have  also  constructed  large  garages,  linked  by  skyways  to  businesses.  Total  investment  in  Lowertown 
over  the  past  15  years  now  exceeds  $400  million,  four  times  our  original  goal,  and  has  brought  2,900 
construction  jobs  and  4,600  permanent  jobs  to  the  neighborhood.  Property  taxes  generated  in  the 
area  have  increased  fivefold. 

Gap  Financing 

LRC’s  role  as  gap  financier  has  made  the  critical  difference  in  Lowertown’s  redevelopment.  For 
example,  an  investment  of  $120,000  each  from  LCR  and  the  city  made  the  $3  million  Heritage 
House,  a  60-unit  senior  citizen  housing  development,  a  reality.  A  $210,000  loan  and  loan  guarantee 
from  LCR,  and  a  $540,000  loan  from  the  city,  helped  to  make  a  $1.7  millon  artist  loft  project  feasible. 
A  $2.2  million  LRC  loan  plus  a  $4.4  million  UDAG  launched  the  development  of  the  $33  million 
Gal  tier  Plaza  (which  has  since  grown  to  $128  million),  a  stylish  residential  office  and  retail  complex 
that  includes  a  YMCA  and  movie  theaters.  To  date,  LRC  has  committed  a  total  of  $7.7  million  in 
loans  and  loan  guarantees  for  1 1  projects.  Conservatively  estimating,  we  have  achieved  a  leveraging 
ratio  of  1  to  13  for  our  gap  financing  in  these  projects.  This  compares  most  favorably  with  the 
national  average  of  1  to  5  for  UDAG  in  projects  across  the  United  States. 

Historic  rehabilitation  and  low-income  housing  tax  credits,  and  some  LCR  and  city  gap  financ¬ 
ing  have  helped  this  area’s  housing  market  thrive.  More  than  1,500  rental  and  for  sale  housing  units 
have  been  built,  making  Lowertown  one  of  St.  Paul’s  fastest  growing  neighborhoods.  Our  residents 
are  a  diverse  group,  with  25%  of  the  housing  units  designed  for  low  and  moderate  income  families. 

Urban  Design 

An  important  part  of  Lowertown’s  appeal  is  its  distinctive  look  and  historic  sense  of  place.  From 
its  inception,  LRC  sought  historic  designation  for  the  warehouse  section,  even  though  there  was 
opposition  at  the  beginning.  LRC  has  emphasized  the  role  that  amenities,  good  design,  and  historic 
preservation  can  play  in  creating  and  maintaining  a  vital  neighborhood.  In  addition,  LRC  sets  design 
guidelines  for  selected  blocks  as  needed.  Then  working  with  the  Mayor’s  office,  city  agencies,  and 
private  owners,  we  encourage  owners  to  improve  projects  through  the  design  review  process. 

We  strive  to  preserve  what  we  already  have,  and  to  make  certain  that  the  new  blends  well  with 
the  old.  We  do  not  attempt  to  adhere  to  any  specific  style,  but  rather  to  search  for  compatibility  of 
materials,  colors,  rhythm,  and  proportion.  Based  upon  historic  research,  reproduced  old  street 
lamps  were  brought  back,  which  helps  to  revive  the  neighborhood’s  historic  identity.  Historical  mark¬ 
ers  on  buildings  and  in  the  park  make  the  visitors  more  aware  of  its  sense  of  place.  Simple  brochures 


47 


help  visitors  to  rediscover  the  historic  past.  The  new  Farmers  Market  in  the  heart  of  the  residential 
neighborhood  recalls  the  old,  while  the  old  railroad  depot  and  the  two  historic  churches  remain  as 
the  area’s  important  landmarks.  Mears  Park  is  the  real  heart  of  Lowertown,  and  is  its  “village  com¬ 
mon.”  It  recently  underwent  a  five-year,  $1.5  million  design  and  reconstruction.  It  illustrates  well  the 
active  citizen  participadon  in  our  design  process.  The  result  of  this  collaboration  was  the  creation  of 
a  park  for  all  seasons. 

A  few  projects  in  Lowertown,  for  a  variety  of  reasons,  have  failed.  Fortunately,  most  of  them 
have  since  recovered  after  they  were  sold  and  refinanced,  and  new  market  niches  were  found.  There 
is  still  much  to  be  accomplished.  Renovation  of  the  riverfront  to  include  parks,  museums,  housing, 
and  other  development  is  being  planned.  A  technology  park  for  medical,  biotechnology,  software 
and  other  high  technology  industries  is  also  planned  for  the  northern  section  of  Lowertown.  Over¬ 
all,  Lowertown  holds  out  the  promise  of  an  additional  $400  million  in  development  in  the  next 
decade  or  two. 

Conclusion 

In  conclusion,  let  me  make  several  additional  points.  First,  besides  vision  and  money,  in  the  end 
it  is  the  people  and  the  quality  of  leadership  which  ultimately  makes  the  difference  in  the  success  or 
failure  of  revitalization  efforts.  In  St.  Paul,  it  was  the  vision  and  able  leadership  of  our  former  Mayor 
George  Latimer  and  the  former  head  of  the  McKnight  Foundation,  which  got  the  Lowertown  Rede¬ 
velopment  Corporation  established  and  funded.  Latimer  is  one  of  those  rare  persons  with  a  deep 
social  commitment  and  strong  implementation  skills.  The  generous  and  continuing  support  of  the 
McKnight  Foundation  has  been  equally  important.  The  second  factor  in  our  success  is  that  we  are  an 
independent  corporation.  The  strong,  stable  leadership  provided  by  LRC’s  board,  its  past  and  pres¬ 
ent  presidents  and  the  continuing  support  of  the  Foundation,  under  its  present  director,  helped  to 
fight  off  political  interference  and  bureaucracy,  as  well  as  bring  the  necessary  pressure  to  push  for 
needed  funds  and  projects.  The  third  reason  for  our  success  is  our  effective  use  of  a  variety  of  financ¬ 
ing  resources.  The  fourth  element  is  our  commitment  to  a  larger  vision  and  to  design  excellence. 
Fifth,  there  is  our  ability  to  market  the  area.  And  sixth,  we  have  maximized  and  leveraged  our 
resources  by  keeping  our  office  small,  by  carefully  managing  our  funds,  and  by  aggressively  recover¬ 
ing  our  expenses  from  our  developers. 

In  his  book  Edge  City,  author  Joel  Garreau  wrote  there  is  a  deep  divide  in  the  American  charac¬ 
ter  between  our  reverence  for  “unspoiled  nature”  and  our  enduring  devotion  to  “progress”.  Cultural 
historian  Leo  Marx,  author  of  Machine  in  the  Garden,  observed  that  Edge  City  represents  “an  escape 
from  the  negative  aspects  of  civilization.  Too  much  restraint,  oppression,  hierarchy — you  justify 
building  out  there  in  order  to  start  again  and  have  another  garden.” 

Garreau  concluded  that  “Edge  City  may  be  the  result  of  Americans  striving  once  again  for  a 
new,  restorative  synthesis.  Perhaps  Edge  City  represents  Americans  taking  the  function  of  the  City 
(the  machine)  and  bringing  them  to  the  physical  edge  of  the  landscape  (the  frontier).  There,  we  try 
again  to  merge  the  two  in  a  new-found  union  of  nature  and  art  (the  garden),  albeit  in  which  the 
treeline  is  punctuated  incongruously  by  office  towers.” 

Based  on  our  experience  in  Lowertown,  I  believe  we  could  also  perceive  the  downtown  core 
and  inner  city  as  another  frontier.  If  we  can  take  the  city  (the  machine)  to  the  physical  edge  of  the 
city,  why  can  we  not  also  take  nature  back  to  the  city,  making  a  new  synthesis  of  nature  and  art  (the 
garden  or  an  urban  village)  in  the  heart  of  the  city  as  well? 


48 


END  VIEW 


Stanley  Ira  Hallet 


I  am  most  pleased  to  be  invited  here  to  the  Library  of  Congress  to  share  with  you  some 
thoughts  regarding  an  ambitious  decade  of  urban  design  charrettes.  Although  the  Summer  Institute 
of  the  Catholic  University  of  America  played  a  major  role  in  these  charrettes,  providing  both  the 
place  and  impetus  for  the  many  charrettes  delivered,  I  must  confess  that  I  was  very  much  an  outsider. 
Arriving  late  on  the  scene  in  1986, 1  was  engrossed  in  the  pressing  problems  encountered  during  my 
first  years  at  CUA  and  was  relegated  to  playing  the  role  of  a  concerned  if  not  completely  oblivious 
cheerleader  to  urban  design  “games”  that  were  far  too  sophisticated  for  me  to  appreciate  at  that 
moment.  However,  looking  back  makes  experts  of  us  all,  and  it  is  in  this  insular  if  not  isolated  pers¬ 
pective  that  I  offer  some  observations. 

At  the  turn  of  the  80s  there  was  litde  question  that  the  draconian  remedies  proposed  and  often 
implemented  by  the  planners  of  an  earlier  generation  had  caused  ruptures  in  our  city  fabric,  an 
unfortunate  fact  that  today  leaves  parts  of  the  Capital  lacking  certain  characteristics  that  define 
urban  life  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word.  Out  of  respect  for  brevity,  I  will  not  go  into  a  long  list  of 
complaints  that  marred  if  not  destroyed  once  healthy  urban  places. 

In  spite  of  these  frustrations,  it  seemed  that  much  of  the  energy  left  among  those  urban  inhabi¬ 
tants  who  did  not  flee  to  the  suburbs,  were  spent  either  fighting  additional  urban  interventions,  that 
were  threatening  to  tear  apart  the  remaining  urban  fabric  or  merely  trying  to  save  a  few  historical 
set-pieces  facing  the  wrecking  ball  of  changing  market  conditions.  Given  the  impressive  political  as 
well  as  urban  history  of  our  capital  city,  much  of  it  still  intact  in  the  form  of  architecture,  landscape 
and  urban  fabric,  there  was  plenty  of  rich  territory  to  defend.  When  I  speak  to  the  urban  hisory  of 
our  capital  city,  I  am  not  only  referring  to  concepts  of  spatial  organization  that  trace  their  roots  to 
the  17th  century  French  Landscapes  or  even  earlier  Italian  City  Plans,  I  am  also  paying  homage  to  a 
splendid  history  of  planning  and  building  that  to  this  day  continues  to  grace  our  city  with  splendid 
parks,  esplanades,  neighborhoods  and  monuments,  the  envy  of  others. 

However,  as  we  still  find  today,  at  the  time  these  charrettes  took  place,  parts  of  our  city  were  in 
decay,  both  physically  and  spiritually,  the  result  of  neglect  and  inappropriate  interventions.  The  call 
to  revisit  this  torn  urban  fabric  was  shrill,  and  the  need  to  repair  the  fabric  was  long  overdue. 

Impassioned  were  those  who  took  up  the  call.  Many  of  the  individuals  who  mustered  their 
forces  in  the  series  of  charrettes  were  not  drawn  from  the  traditional  planning  discipline.  Although  a 
number  of  the  charrette  team-leaders  are  well  known  today,  15  years  ago  they  were  just  beginning  to 
make  their  presence  felt.  There  was  the  landscape  architect  Lauri  Olin  from  Philadelphia,  and  for¬ 
mer  Dean  and  New  York  architect  Frances  Halsband.  There  was  Jaquelin  Robertson,  then  Dean  of 
Architecture  and  Planning  at  the  University  of  Virginia  and  architect/professors  Tom  Beeby,  Davis 
Lewis,  David  Lee  and  Jean  Paul  Carlhian.  They  were  driven  by  the  many  other  faculty  and  practition¬ 
ers  that  not  only  contributed  enormous  energies  and  talents  to  give  form  to  these  charrettes  but 
through  their  personal  perseverance  and  commitment  managed  to  sustain  these  vital  encounters 
and  save  the  original  drawings  that  are  now  archived  in  the  Library  of  Congress.  Finally,  they  were 
followed  by  many  others  trained  in  architecture,  landscape  design,  and  history  and  theory.  As  a 
group,  they  appeared  to  be  on  the  whole  a  bit  academic.  If  not  actually  housed  in  the  academy,  they 
were  all  enamored  by  the  idea  of  challenging  the  status  quo  of  urban  design  theory  and  envisioned 
the  charrettes  as  a  wonderful  opportunity  to  expand  the  dialogue  concerning  urban  design  and 
effectuate  change  in  our  capital  city. 

For  the  most  part,  the  participants  were  educated  in  the  allied  fields  of  architecture  and  land¬ 
scape,  and  their  courses,  proposals  and  professional  work  focused  on  urban  issues  with  a  penchant 


49 


for  remaking  and  redefining  physical  space.  To  reach  this  objective  they  were  anxious  to  make  use  of 
the  traditional  tools  of  their  respective  professionals,  that  is,  to  define  the  built  environment  with  the 
equally  traditional  materials  of  their  trade. 

In  addition,  the  concept  of  working  as  a  team  of  professionals  representing  multiple  urban  per¬ 
spectives,  was  integral  to  their  vision  of  solving  problems.  Plant  and  brick,  tree  and  column,  hedge 
and  wall  became  but  a  growing  palette  of  materials  to  be  used  by  all  of  them  to  shape  street  and  pub¬ 
lic  space.  Their  most  fundamental  interests  in  architecture,  landscape  and  urban  design  were  thus 
fused  into  one  modus  operandi  to  better  define  public  urban  space.  For  these  new  athletes  of  the 
cityscape,  history  provided  plenty  of  examples,  numerous  precedents.  Only  careful  observation, 
study,  and  the  patient  application  of  their  formulae  were  needed. 

Their  heros  were  Vetruvius,  the  French  paysagist  Le  Notre,  and  urbanist  Haussmann  and  Alp- 
hand,  as  well  as  President  Jefferson  and  the  artist  designer  Pierre  Charles  L’Enfant.  They  studied  the 
1902  Senate  Park  Commission  Plan  by  Burnam,  McKim,  Olmstead  Jr.,  and  St.  Gaudins  and  followed 
the  latest  theories  of  Leon  Krier  as  well  as  his  brother  Rob.  They  were  inspired  by  the  writings  of 
Christian  Norberg  Schultz,  Jonathan  Barnett  and  the  recently  published  urban  plans  and  sketches  of 
the  Ecole  des  Beaux  Arts. 

What  also  made  them  unique  was  that,  although  they  had  already  mastered  the  nuts  and  bolts 
of  urban  development,  the  economics  of  floor  area  ratios  and  user-occupancy  densities,  and  the  real¬ 
ities  of  transportation  systems  and  public  safety,  their  visceral  goals  were  to  make  urban  place  tactile, 
experiential,  understandable  and  ultimately  liveable.  This,  I  am  convinced,  they  did  achieve.  Perhaps 
more  so  on  paper  since  only  a  few  of  these  charrettes  were  actually  realized,  but  also  by  example.  I 
also  believe  that  these  charrettes  and  the  subsequent  works  of  these  players  continues  to  inform  new 
landscape  projects,  recent  architectural  proposals,  and  urban  interventions  that  occur  every  day,  not 
only  in  our  own  capital  city,  but  across  the  American  urban  landscape.  The  principles,  rule  systems, 
goals  and  objectives  explored  and  tested  through  citizen  participation  in  these  charrettes  have  now 
become  part  of  today’s  lexicon.  They  are  now  part  of  our  design  language,  spoken  over  design  tables 
in  our  studios,  over  the  desks  in  city  and  federal  agencies,  and  in  the  town  halls  of  an  increasingly 
concerned  citizenry. 

What  concerns  me  now,  is  that  the  challenges  to  our  city  that  still  remain  continue  to  produce 
an  equally  strong  shrill.  In  response,  we  urban  planners,  architects,  landscape  architects  need  to  dig 
even  deeper.  Look  around.  Our  city,  similar  to  cities  across  our  country,  has  been  transformed.  It  is 
no  longer  the  home  of  a  principally  privileged  class  of  white  Europeans  who  first  conceived  of  this 
capital  city  and  watched  it  grow  into  a  strikingly  monumental  and  symbolic  city  that  appears  on  our 
travel  posters. 

Today,  Washington,  D.C.  is  a  multicultural  home  to  growing  numbers  of  less  than  privileged 
people.  Increasingly  they  make  demands  upon  this  city,  testing  its  urban  fabric  and  redefining  its 
condition.  If  I  have  any  reservation  to  share  with  you  today,  it  is  that  the  traditional  partnerships  of 
yesteryear  will  no  longer  suffice.  Traditional  proposals  will  no  longer  do.  New  charrettes  are  needed 
and  new  mixture  of  players  must  again  revisit  the  same  problems.  Other  approaches,  strategies  and 
ideas  must  be  invited  to  the  design  table  and  become  part  of  an  expanded  debate.  Today’s  charrettes 
must  also  address  complex  economic,  housing,  and  socio-cultural  issues  along  side  of  design. 

As  architect,  I  remain  stubbornly  convinced  that  the  redefinition  of  both  the  urban  fabric 
and  “the  ubiquitous  suburban  fabric”  that  promises  to  swallow  us  up,  must  be  addressed  and 
championed  by  physical  designers.  However,  this  time  the  strategies  that  need  to  be  proposed 
and  developed  could  bear  resemblance  to  the  European  precedents  to  which  we  have  become  so 
accustomed. 

The  challenging  problems  for  our  city  continue  to  grow  in  complexity.  Future  proposals  must 
be  given  room  to  explore  other  alternatives.  As  the  strategies  presented  in  St.  Paul,  Minnesota  illus¬ 
trate,  we  must  learn  to  intervene,  recognizing  an  ever  changing  urban  and  cultural  history,  fully  con¬ 
scious  that  new  communities  will  demand  new  responses.  Our  job  is  to  help  our  citizenry  realize 
them,  to  concertize  the  aspirations  of  a  changing  populace  and  give  form  to  an  equally  changing 


50 


capital  city,  where  national  monuments  and  humble  houses  can  still  find  a  way  to  live  side  by  side, 
where  gaping  tourists  and  struggling  urban  natives  can  both  enjoy  the  urban  fruit  of  our  civilization. 

However,  in  spite  of  these  reservations,  I  am  helplessly  convinced  that  most  peoples,  regardless 
of  culture,  varied  background  or  origin,  want  the  same  opportunities  and  comforts  shared  by  our 
founding  fathers.  In  the  broad  spectrum  of  alternatives  that  can  be  offered,  Urban  Living  must  ulti¬ 
mately  provide  a  safe  as  well  as  vital  haven  for  culture  and  commerce,  for  education  and  recreation, 
or  simply  put,  for  just  going  out  or  staying  in.  I  am  sure  that  planted  tree  and  constructed  park 
bench,  well  defined  street  and  lively  public  plaza,  will  remain  critical  tools  for  making  healthy  urban 
places.  In  looking  back,  these  charrettes  of  the  80s  only  confirmed  their  timeless  importance. 


51 


SPEAKERS 


Ralph  E.  Ehrenberg,  Chief,  Geography  8c  Map  Division,  Library  of  Congress 

Ronald  E.  Grim,  Specialist  in  Cartographic  History,  Geography  &  Map  Division,  Library  of  Congress 

C.  Ford  Peatross,  Curator  of  Architecture,  Design  8c  Engineering  Collections,  Prints  8c  Photographs 
Division,  Library  of  Congress 

Iris  Miller,  Co-founder,  Urban  Design  Charrettes,  1982;  Adjunct  Assistant  Professor  and  Director, 
Landscape  Studies,  School  of  Architecture  and  Planning,  The  Catholic  University  of  America 

Susan  Piedmont-Palladino,  Washington  Area  Architectural  Group;  Associate  Professor,  Virginia  Poly¬ 
technic  Institute,  Washington-Alexandria  Center  for  Architecture 

Gregory’  K  Hunt,  Co-Director,  Urban  Design  Charrettes,  1983-84;  Professor,  Virginia  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Washington-Alexandria  Center  for  Architecture 

Charles  Zucker,  American  Institute  of  Architects,  Community  Assistance,  Washington,  D.C.,  and  for¬ 
mer  Assistant  Chairman,  Design  Arts  Program,  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts 

David  Lewis,  Architect,  Planner,  and  Distinguished  Professor  of  Urban  Studies,  Carnegie  Mellon 
University,  Pittsburgh 

Steven  Hurtt,  Dean,  School  of  Architecture,  University  of  Maryland 

Robert  Peck,  Deputy  Director,  Office  of  Legislative  Affairs,  Federal  Communications  Commission; 
Member,  Fine  Arts  Commission 

Linda  Moody,  Former  President  and  Ward  8  Representative,  D.C.  Board  of  Education 

Harry  Robinson,  Dean,  School  of  Architecture,  Howard  University;  Member,  Fine  Arts  Commission 

Joseph  Passonneau,  .Architect,  Engineer,  Planner,  Washington,  D.C.,  and  former  Dean,  School  of 
Architecture,  Washington  University,  St.  Louis 

James  Banks,  Consultant  to  Fannie  Mae,  former  housing  and  community  development  official  for 
D.C.  and  federal  government  agencies  including  consultant  to  Secretary  of  Housing  and  Urban 
Development 

George  Latimer,  Director,  Special  Actions  Office,  Office  of  the  Secretary,  Housing  and  Urban  Devel¬ 
opment;  former  Mayor,  St.  Paul,  Minnesota 

Weiming  Lu,  Executive  Director,  Lowertown  Redevelopment  Corporation,  St.  Paul,  Minnesota 

Stanley  Hallet,  Dean,  School  of  Architecture  and  Planning,  The  Catholic  University  of  America 


52 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


t 

f 


V  I 


