area  handbook  series 

Chad 

a  country  study 


i 


Chad 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Thomas  Collelo 
Research  Completed 
December  1988 


On  the  cover:  Two  children  help  their  father  lift  water  from  a 
well  near  Lake  Chad. 


Second  Edition,  1990;  First  Printing,  1990. 

Copyright  ®1990  United  States  Government  as  represented  by 
the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  All  rights  reserved. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Chad:  A  Country  Study. 

Area  handbook  series,  DA  Pam  550-159 
Research  completed  December  1988. 
Bibliography:  pp.  223-234. 
Includes  index. 

1.  Chad.  I.  Collelo,  Thomas,  1948-      .  II.  Area  handbook  of 
Chad.  III.  Federal  Research  Division.  Library  of  Congress. 
IV.  DA  Pam  550-159. 

DT546.422.C48    1990  916.743— dc20  89-600373 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-159 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


111 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  thank  individuals  and  private  institutions 
who  gave  their  time,  research  materials,  and  expertise  to  the  produc- 
tion of  this  book.  The  authors  are  also  grateful  to  members  of  the 
Federal  Research  Division  staff  who  contributed  directly  to  the 
preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  people  include  Richard  F. 
Nyrop,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  Martha  E.  Hopkins,  who  managed  editing  and 
production;  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson,  who  provided 
word-processing  support;  and  Helen  C.  Metz,  who  reviewed  the 
text's  French  terminology. 

Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  Sharon  Costello,  Richard  Kollodge,  Lea 
Knott,  and  Michael  Pleasants  edited  the  manuscript;  prepublica- 
tion  editorial  review  was  performed  by  Beverly  Wolpert;  Shirley 
Kessell  compiled  the  index.  Diann  J.  Johnson  of  the  Library  of 
Congress  Composing  Unit  prepared  the  camera- ready  copy,  under 
the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

Inestimable  graphics  support  was  provided  by  David  P.  Cabitto, 
assisted  by  Sandra  K.  Ferrell  and  Kimberly  A.  Lord;  Ms.  Lord 
also  designed  the  cover  artwork  and  the  illustrations  on  the  title 
page  of  each  chapter.  In  addition,  thanks  are  owed  to  Carolina 
E.  Forrester,  who  reviewed  the  map  drafts,  and  Harriett  R.  Blood, 
who  prepared  the  topography  and  drainage  map. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  many  in- 
dividuals and  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photo- 
graphs to  be  used  in  this  study.  They  are  indebted  especially  to 
those  who  contributed  original  work  not  previously  published. 


v 


Contents 


Page 


Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xi 

Country  Profile                                ,   xiii 

Introduction      xix 

Chapter  1.    Historical  Setting    1 

John  L.  Collier 

PREHISTORY    4 

ERA  OF  EMPIRES,  A.D.  900-1900    5 

Kanem-Borno    5 

Bagirmi  and  Wadai    10 

ARRIVAL  OF  THE  FRENCH  AND  COLONIAL 

ADMINISTRATION    11 

DECOLONIZATION  POLITICS    14 

TOMBALBAYE  ERA,  1960-75    17 

Tombalbaye's  Governance:  Policies  and  Methods  ....  17 

Rebellion  in  Eastern  and  Northern  Chad    20 

Fall  of  the  Tombalbaye  Government   22 

CIVIL  WAR  AND  NORTHERN  DOMINANCE,  1975-82  .  .  24 

Malloum's  Military  Government,  1975-78    24 

Civil  War  and  Multilateral  Mediation,  1979-82    27 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  33 

Dennis  D.  Cordell 

PHYSICAL  SETTING    35 

The  Land    36 

Water  Systems   37 

Climate   39 

POPULATION    42 

LANGUAGES  AND  ETHNIC  GROUPS    45 

Nilo-Saharan  Languages    48 

Afro-Asiatic  Languages    54 

Congo-Kordofanian  Languages    58 

SOCIAL  STRUCTURE    60 

Toubou  and  Daza:  Nomads  of  the  Sahara    61 

Arabs:  Semisedentary  Peoples  of  the  Sahel    63 

Sara:  Sedentary  Peoples  of  the  Soudanian  Zone    65 


vii 


RELIGION    66 

Classical  African  Religions    67 

Islam    70 

Christianity    73 

EDUCATION    76 

Primary  Education    79 

Secondary  Education    80 

Higher  Education    81 

Vocational  Education    82 

HEALTH  AND  MEDICAL  SERVICES    83 

Chapter  3.   The  Economy    87 

Peter  D.  Coats 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   89 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    92 

AGRICULTURE    92 

Cotton   95 

Subsistence  Farming    102 

Livestock    106 

Fishing    107 

Forestry    108 

MANUFACTURING,  MINING,  AND  UTILITIES   109 

Manufacturing   109 

Mining    Ill 

Water  and  Electricity    112 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  COMMUNICATIONS    113 

Land  Transport   115 

Air  Transport    118 

Communications    119 

TRADE  AND  COMMERCE    120 

Exports    120 

Imports    121 

Direction  of  Trade   121 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS  AND  FINANCE    122 

Balance  of  Payments    122 

Banking  and  Finance   124 

Government  Finances    126 

THE  NATIONAL  DEBT  AND  FOREIGN  ASSISTANCE    .  .  129 

National  Debt    129 

Foreign  Assistance   130 

Chapter  4.   Government  and  Politics   135 

Rita  M.  Byrnes 

POLITICAL  BACKGROUND   139 

Preindependence  Factions    139 


viii 


Southern  Dominance,  1960-78    140 

Transition  to  Northern  Rule    142 

STRUCTURE  OF  GOVERNMENT   145 

Constitutional  System    145 

Regional  Government    148 

Judicial  System    149 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    150 

Factionalism    150 

National  Union  for  Independence  and  Revolution    ...  154 

Political  Style   155 

Mass  Media    158 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    158 

Relations  with  France    160 

Relations  with  Libya    160 

Relations  with  Nigeria  and  Sudan   162 

Relations  with  Other  African  States    163 

Relations  with  the  United  States    166 

Relations  with  Arab  States    167 

Chapter  5.   National  Security    169 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

EXTERNAL  AND  DOMESTIC  SECURITY 

CONCERNS    172 

THE  ARMED  FORCES    175 

Origins  and  Early  Development    175 

Organization  of  the  National  Security 

Establishment   178 

The  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces    179 

The  Air  Force    186 

Defense  Expenditures    187 

CIVIL  CONFLICT  AND  LIBYAN  INTERVENTION    188 

The  FROLINAT  Rebellion,  1965-79    188 

First  Libyan  Intervention,  1980-81    190 

Habre's  Return  to  Power  and  Second  Libyan 

Intervention,  1982-84    192 

Repelling  Libya's  Occupying  Force,  1985-87    194 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  COOPERATION    198 

The  French  Military  Role  in  Chad    198 

United  States  Military  Aid    200 

INTERNAL  SECURITY  AND  PUBLIC  ORDER    201 

Police  Services   201 

The  Criminal  Justice  System   202 

Internal  Security  Conditions    204 


Appendix  A.  Tables    209 

Appendix  B.  Principal  Armed  Factions,  1975-87  .  .  219 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

Bibliography    223 

Glossary    235 

Index   239 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Chad,  1988   xviii 

2  Empires  of  the  Chad  Region    6 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    38 

4  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1982    46 

5  Ethnolinguistic  Map    50 

6  Ownership  of  Chad's  Major  Industries,  1987    104 

7  Economic  Activity,  1987    114 

8  Transportation  System,  1988    116 

9  Organization  of  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces, 

Late  1985    180 

10  Areas  of  Fighting,  1980-87    194 


x 


Preface 


Since  the  publication  of  the  Area  Handbook  for  Chad  in  1972,  Chad- 
ian  society  has  experienced  almost  uninterrupted  turmoil.  The 
government  in  power  in  1972,  which  was  dominated  by  southern 
ethnic  groups,  fell  to  a  military  coup  d'etat  in  1975.  By  1978  an 
insurgent  group,  composed  mosdy  of  northerners,  had  displaced 
the  military  regime,  and  in  1982  a  different  rebel  organization  came 
to  power.  These  years  also  saw  the  coming  and  going  of  foreign 
troops,  most  notably  those  of  France  and  Libya.  Adding  to  these 
politico-military  machinations  was  a  several-year-long  drought  that 
produced  famine  and  a  flow  of  refugees  and  rendered  the  econ- 
omy dependent  on  the  generosity  of  France  and  the  international 
donor  community. 

Although  Chad:  A  Country  Study  contains  some  material  from  the 
1972  edition,  it  is  basically  a  new  book.  Like  its  predecessor,  this 
volume  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  concise  and  objective  manner 
the  dominant  social,  political,  economic,  and  military  aspects  of 
contemporary  Chadian  society.  Sources  of  information  included 
scholarly  journals  and  monographs,  official  reports  of  governments 
and  international  organizations,  foreign  and  domestic  newspapers, 
and  numerous  periodicals.  The  authors  have  emphasized  the  use 
of  foreign -language  sources  to  a  greater  extent  than  in  the  past. 
Nevertheless,  as  a  result  of  the  warfare  during  the  1980s,  up-to- 
date  information  on  social  and  economic  issues  was  scarce;  little 
fieldwork  had  been  done,  and  few  government  reports  had  been 
published. 

Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book,  and  a  brief 
annotated  bibliographic  note  on  sources  recommended  for  further 
reading  appears  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given 
in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  read- 
ers unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1 ,  Appendix 
A).  A  glossary  is  included,  and,  to  help  readers  identify  numerous 
armies  and  militias,  Appendix  B,  Principal  Armed  Factions, 
1975-87,  is  provided. 

To  the  extent  possible,  place-names  follow  the  system  adopted 
by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names;  often  these  vary 
from  conventional  French  usage.  Because  there  is  no  standard  to 
guide  the  spelling  of  proper  names,  the  most  common  journalistic 
usages  have  been  followed. 


xi 


Country  Profile 


Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Chad. 
Short  Form:  Chad. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Chadian(s). 
Capital:  N'Djamena. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  1,284,000  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Northern  third  desert,  with  mountains  in  north  and 
plateaus  in  northeast;  central  third  broad,  arid  savanna  with  Lake 
Chad  in  west,  massif  in  center,  and  highlands  in  east;  southern 
third  wooded  and  humid  lowlands,  intersected  by  rivers. 

Climate:  Northern  Saharan  zone  generally  hot  and  dry;  central 
sahelian  zone  mostly  dry  with  rainy  season  from  June  to  early  Sep- 
tember; southern  soudanian  zone  tropical  with  rainy  season  lasting 
from  April  to  October. 

Society 

Population:  Estimated  at  5  million  to  5.2  million  in  1985,  most 
of  which  concentrated  in  capital  and  southern  third  of  country. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Education  compulsory  until  age  twelve, 
but  only  about  40  percent  of  primary- school-aged  children  attended 
in  late  1980s.  Overall  literacy  rate  about  15  percent  in  1982. 

Health  and  Welfare:  Years  of  civil  strife,  drought,  and  overall 
impoverishment  have  kept  health  care  at  low  level.  Few  existing 
medical  facilities  concentrated  in  capital  and  major  cities  in  south. 
Life  expectancy  in  late  1970s  about  forty-three  years  for  women 
and  thirty-nine  years  for  men. 

Languages:  French  and  Arabic  official  languages,  Sara  common 
in  south,  more  than  100  others  spoken. 

Ethnic  Groups:  More  than  200  distinct  ethnic  groups;  Toubou 
common  in  north,  Arabs  in  sahelian  zone,  Sara  in  soudanian  zone. 

Religion:  More  than  half  of  population  Muslim;  rest  adhere  to 
traditional  African  religions  or  Christianity. 


xiii 


Economy 


Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  About  US$817  million  in  1986; 
US$160  per  capita.  In  mid-1980s  war,  drought,  famine,  and  low 
prices  for  cotton  made  Chad  one  of  five  poorest  countries  in  world. 

Agriculture:  Contributed  about  46  percent  of  GDP  in  1986.  Domi- 
nated by  cotton  grown  in  south.  Approximately  83  percent  of  eco- 
nomically active  population  farmers  or  herders.  Sorghum  and  millet 
major  food  crops. 

Industry:  Not  well  developed  but  contributed  almost  18  percent 
of  GDP  in  1986.  Employed  only  5  percent  of  work  force.  Sector 
dominated  by  agribusiness.  Mining,  especially  oil  extraction,  held 
some  promise  of  development. 

Imports:  US$206.1  million  in  1986,  mainly  manufactured  goods 
and  food,  mostly  from  France  and  United  States. 

Exports:  US$98.6  million  in  1986,  of  which  cotton  constituted  43 
percent.  Remainder  meat,  fish,  and  animal  products.  Most  exports 
went  to  other  parts  of  Africa  and  Western  Europe. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Currency:  African  Financial  Community  (Communaute  Finan- 
cier Africaine)  franc  (CFA  F),  used  by  fourteen  nations  and  freely 
convertible  to  French  francs  (FF).  In  December  1988,  CFA  F298 
equaled  US$1. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Railroads:  None.  Closest  rail  terminals  Ngaoundere  (Cameroon) 
and  Maiduguri  (Nigeria). 

Roads:  About  7,300  kilometers  of  partially  maintained  roads,  of 
which  1 ,260  kilometers  considered  all-weather  roads;  no  paved  roads 
in  1987.  About  24,000  kilometers  of  unimproved  tracks. 

Inland  Waterways:  Chari  and  Logone  rivers  principal  branches 
of  approximately  2,000-kilometer-long  navigable  system. 

Ports:  None.  Closest  port  at  Douala,  Cameroon. 

Airports:  International  airport  at  N'Djamena;  smaller  airfields  at 
Abeche,  Moundou,  and  Sarh;  small  dirt  strips  scattered  through- 
out country. 

Telecommunications:  One  of  least  developed  systems  in  Africa. 
All  international  telecommunications  passed  through  Paris. 


xiv 


Government  and  Politics 


Government:  Governmental  system  based  on  Fundamental  Law 
of  October  18,  1982,  which  served  as  interim  constitution.  Fun- 
damental Law  promulgated  after  Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Forces 
Armees  du  Nord — FAN)  wrested  control  from  incumbent  govern- 
ment; in  late  1980s,  former  FAN  leaders  still  held  many  important 
positions.  Fundamental  Law  gives  president  overriding  authority 
for  controlling  all  aspects  of  government.  New  constitution  being 
drafted  in  1989.  In  1988  presidentially  appointed  Council  of  Min- 
isters served  as  cabinet.  No  elected  legislative  body,  but  thirty- 
member  National  Advisory  Council  provided  forum  for  limited 
debate.  Judicial  system  based  on  French  civil  law  but  modified  to 
include  variety  of  customary  and  Islamic  legal  interpretations.  In 
late  1980s,  civil  and  military  courts  sometimes  had  overlapping 
jurisdictions. 

Politics:  Chadian  Civil  War  and  factionalism  have  dominated  po- 
litical events  since  mid-1960s.  After  its  victory  in  1982,  Command 
Council  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Conseil  de  Commande- 
ment  des  Forces  Armees  du  Nord — CCFAN)  was  dissolved  and 
in  June  1984  replaced  by  sole  political  party,  National  Union  for 
Independence  and  Revolution  (Union  Nationale  pour  l'lndepen- 
dance  et  la  Revolution — UNIR).  UNIR,  led  by  president,  had 
fourteen-member  Executive  Bureau  and  eighty-member  Central 
Committee.  Party  used  mainly  to  integrate  former  government  op- 
ponents into  new  regime.  No  elections  planned  as  of  late  1988. 

Foreign  Affairs:  Since  independence,  external  affairs  governed  by 
France,  Chad's  colonizer,  and  Libya,  aggressive  neighbor  to  north. 
Relations  with  France  have  wavered,  but  in  late  1980s  France 
provided  some  of  Chad's  air  defense  and  other  security  needs,  and 
French  financial  interests  helped  sustain  economy.  Libya  has 
claimed  and  occupied  Aozou  Strip  (see  Glossary),  aided  several 
antigovernment  rebel  factions,  and  intervened  militarily.  In  late 
1988,  relations  with  Libya  were  restored,  so  that  Chad  had  amicable 
relations  with  all  its  neighbors.  United  States  supported  govern- 
ment and  provided  military  and  humanitarian  assistance. 

International  Organizations:  Member  of  African  Development 
Bank,  West  African  Economic  Community,  Conference  of  East 
and  Central  African  States,  European  Community,  Group  of  77, 
World  Bank,  International  Cotton  Advisory  Committee,  Islamic 
Development  Bank,  International  Telecommunications  Satellite 
Organization,  Interpol,  Lake  Chad  Basin  Commission,  Nonaligned 
Movement,  Organization  of  African  Unity,  Afro-Malagasy  and 


xv 


Mauritian  Common  Organization,  Organization  of  the  Islamic 
Conference,  United  Nations. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  In  1987  consisted  of  army  of  28,000,  air  force  of 
fewer  than  200,  and  Presidential  Guard  of  3,600.  Conscription  for 
periods  of  one  year  or  longer  imposed  erratically. 

Military  Units:  Main  army  units  included  3  operational  infantry 
battalions  and  127  infantry  companies,  with  roughly  400  soldiers 
in  each  battalion  and  100  to  150  in  each  company.  Armored  fight- 
ing vehicles  organized  into  separate  squadrons.  Air  force  had  no 
combat  aircraft.  Small  inventory  of  aircraft  provided  marginal  trans- 
port, reconnaissance,  and  counterinsurgency  capabilities.  Coun- 
try divided  into  twelve  military  zones,  plus  separate  military  region 
in  north. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance:  France  traditional  supplier  of  arms, 
materiel,  and  training.  Since  1983  French  aid  supplemented  by 
materiel  and  equipment  from  United  States.  Vast  quantities  of 
Libyan  weaponry,  aircraft,  and  vehicles — mostly  of  Soviet  manu- 
facture— captured  in  battle  during  1987,  some  of  which  incorpo- 
rated into  Chadian  stocks. 

Defense  Expenditures:  According  to  Chadian  government  figures, 
defense  costs  were  CFA  F8.4  billion  in  1986,  or  about  35  percent 
of  annual  government  budget.  Actual  spending  believed  to  be  much 
higher,  and  official  figure  did  not  include  all  French  contributions 
toward  military  expenses. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  National  Security  Police,  known  as 
Surete,  served  as  national  police  force  and  municipal  police  in  major 
towns.  Security  in  rural  areas  performed  by  Territorial  Military 
Police.  Regular  military  police  functions  and  rear  area  and  route 
security  carried  out  by  National  Military  Police.  Presidential  Guard 
also  assumed  many  internal  security  responsibilities. 


xvi 


1 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Chad,  1988 


xvni 


Introduction 


AN  ARRAY  OF  MISFORTUNES  has  visited  African  states  since 
the  beginnings  of  the  independence  movement  in  the  late  1950s. 
Of  the  many  political  ills,  a  few  of  the  most  traumatic  have  been 
neocolonialism,  coups  d'etat,  civil  wars,  governmental  instability, 
and  large-scale  armed  invasions.  Some  of  the  most  egregious  social 
afflictions  have  been  poverty,  illiteracy,  ethnic  and  regional  ani- 
mosities, high  mortality  rates,  and  imbalanced  population  distribu- 
tion. Dominant  economic  woes  have  included  famine,  drought, 
economic  dependency,  and  overreliance  on  a  single  crop.  Many 
African  nations  have  experienced  more  than  one  of  these  troubles 
periodically.  Few  countries,  however,  have  undergone  all  of  them 
as  extensively  or  as  often  as  has  Chad.  In  spite  of  its  misfortunes, 
by  the  late  1980s  Chad  was  exhibiting  signs  of  stability  that  provided 
hope  for  some  form  of  political,  social,  and  economic  recovery. 

Landlocked  in  Africa's  center,  Chad  has  been  simultaneously 
at  the  core  of  the  region's  evolution  and  in  a  zone  dividing  two 
geographic  areas  and  cultural  heritages.  On  the  one  hand,  a  great 
inland  sea,  of  which  Lake  Chad  is  but  a  remnant,  once  supported 
a  diversity  of  animal  life  and  vegetation.  In  ancient  times,  people 
speaking  three  of  Africa's  four  major  language  groups  lived  near 
its  shores;  some  migrated  to  other  regions  of  the  continent  while 
others  remained.  In  more  recent  times,  Chad  has  become  a  tran- 
sition zone  dividing  the  arid  north  from  the  tropical  south.  This 
geographic  division  coincides  with  social  and  cultural  dichotomies. 

As  a  result  of  years  of  voluntary  or  forced  migrations,  the  peo- 
ple of  Chad  speak  more  than  100  distinct  languages  and  comprise 
many  different  ethnic  groups.  Such  diversity  has  enriched  Chad's 
culture,  permitting  the  admixture  of  traditions  and  life- styles.  At 
the  same  time,  it  has  promoted  inter-  and  intraethnic  strife,  resulting 
in  levels  of  violence  ranging  from  clan  feuds  to  full-scale  civil  war. 
Factionalism  has  become  a  keynote  of  Chad's  recent  history  and 
has  unquestionably  impeded  nation  building. 

Because  of  the  area's  centrality,  Chad's  history  has  been  heav- 
ily influenced  by  the  influx  of  foreigners.  Some  came  for  economic 
reasons,  for  example,  to  travel  the  trans-Saharan  trade  routes  or 
to  search  for  natural  resources.  Others  came  teaching  the  religion 
of  Muhammad  or  of  Christ.  But  some  had  more  nefarious  goals 
and  invaded  the  region  to  capture  slaves  or  to  plunder  weaker  states. 

Little  is  known  about  Chad  before  the  beginning  of  the  second 
millennium  A.D.  At  about  that  time,  the  region  gave  birth  to  one 


xix 


of  the  great  societies  of  Central  Africa — the  Kanem  Empire,  formed 
from  a  confederation  of  nomadic  peoples.  During  the  tenth  cen- 
tury, Islam  penetrated  the  empire,  and  later  the  king,  or  mat,  be- 
came a  Muslim.  Kanem  benefited  from  the  rule  of  several  effective 
mats.  The  most  significant  of  these  was  Mai  Dunama  Dabbalemi, 
who  reigned  from  about  1221  to  1259.  By  the  end  of  the  fourteenth 
century,  internal  struggles  and  external  attacks  had  weakened  the 
empire  and  forced  it  to  uproot  and  move  to  Borno,  an  area  to  the 
southwest.  The  combined  Kanem-Borno  Empire  peaked  during 
the  reign  of  Mai  Idris  Aluma,  who  ruled  from  about  1571  to  1603 
and  who  is  noted  for  his  diplomatic,  military,  and  administrative 
skills.  By  the  early  nineteenth  century,  unable  to  defend  against 
Fulani  invaders,  Kanem-Borno  was  in  decline,  and  by  the  end  of 
the  century  it  was  overtaken  by  Arab  invaders. 

Another  great  empire  was  the  kingdom  of  Bagirmi,  which  arose 
to  the  southeast  of  Kanem-Borno  in  the  sixteenth  century.  This 
Islamic  kingdom  experienced  periods  of  strength  and  weakness; 
when  strong  it  aggressively  expanded  its  territory,  but  when  weak 
it  was  subjugated  temporarily  by  neighboring  states. 

Wadai  was  a  non-Muslim  sultanate  (or  kingdom)  that  emerged 
to  the  northeast  of  Bagirmi  in  the  sixteenth  century  as  an  offshoot 
of  Darfur  (Darfur  Province  in  present-day  Sudan).  By  the  seven- 
teenth century,  it  had  converted  to  Islam,  and  around  1800  it  began 
to  expand  under  its  sultan,  Sabun.  A  later  ruler,  Muhammad 
Sharif,  attacked  Borno  and  eventually  established  Wadai 's  hege- 
mony over  Bagirmi.  By  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  most 
of  the  great  empires  had  been  destroyed  or  were  in  eclipse. 

The  arrival  of  the  French  in  the  late  1800s  had  benefits  and  dis- 
advantages for  the  indigenous  population.  By  the  early  twentieth 
century,  the  French  had  stopped  northern  groups  from  slave  raid- 
ing in  the  south,  established  a  few  schools,  and  initiated  some  de- 
velopment projects.  The  colonial  administration,  however,  also 
dislocated  villages  and  instituted  mandatory  cotton  production 
quotas  for  farmers.  Moreover,  the  French  administration  of  Chad 
was  conducted  from  faraway  Brazzaville  (in  present-day  Congo), 
and  its  efforts  were  concentrated  in  the  south;  throughout  the  colo- 
nial period,  France's  control  of  the  central  and  northern  areas  was 
nominal. 

This  north- south  distinction  created  a  preindependence  political 
system  dominated  by  southerners,  who  were  exposed  more  to  French 
education  and  culture  than  were  northerners.  Following  indepen- 
dence in  1960,  this  dominance  persisted  and  created  considerable 
resentment  among  central  and  northern  groups,  who  felt  that  their 
interests  were  not  adequately  represented  by  the  new  government. 


xx 


In  the  late  1980s,  social  differences  based  on  region  persisted. 
The  sparsely  populated,  desert  north  was  peopled  mainly  by 
Toubou,  many  of  whom  were  nomadic.  Semisedentary  groups, 
several  of  which  were  of  Arab  descent,  inhabited  the  semiarid  central 
areas  (called  the  Sahel — see  Glossary).  Islam  was  the  major  religion 
in  these  areas.  The  tropical  south,  also  called  the  soudanian  zone, 
was  the  most  densely  populated  region  and  was  home  to  darker 
skinned  peoples,  especially  the  Sara  ethnic  group.  Here,  agricul- 
ture was  the  principal  means  of  livelihood,  particularly  the  culti- 
vation of  cotton,  although  there  was  also  some  small-scale  industry. 
Traditional  African  religions  were  prevalent  in  the  south,  but,  be- 
cause of  earlier  missionary  efforts,  so  too  were  several  Christian 
denominations.  Termed  Le  Tchad  Utile  (Useful  Chad)  by  the  French, 
the  south  contained  a  disproportionate  share  of  the  educational 
and  health  facilities,  as  well  as  the  majority  of  the  development 
projects. 

Throughout  the  colonial  era  and  after  independence,  the  Chad- 
ian  economy  has  been  based  on  agriculture.  As  such,  it  has  been 
driven  by  the  south,  the  only  region  with  a  climate  suitable  for  the 
wide- scale  production  of  cotton  and  foodstuffs  (although  livestock 
raising  in  the  Sahel  has  also  had  some  importance).  At  indepen- 
dence France  left  the  colony  with  an  economy  retarded  by  exploita- 
tive policies.  It  was  marked  by  insufficient  development  of 
infrastructure,  overreliance  on  cotton  and  the  whims  of  the  inter- 
national markets,  and  dependence  on  imports  for  industrial  and 
consumer  goods.  By  the  late  1980s,  warfare,  drought,  and  famine 
had  combined  to  keep  the  economy  depressed,  and  international 
development  organizations  generally  maintained  that  Chad  was 
one  of  the  poorest  nations  in  the  world.  Indicative  of  this  impoverish- 
ment was  the  fact  that  in  1988  Chad  had  a  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary)  per  capita  of  only  US$160  and  no  paved 
roads.  According  to  some  observers,  Chad  had  become  a  ward  of 
the  international  donor  community. 

The  nation  has  been  subjected  to  the  machinations  of  a  vast  num- 
ber of  groups  and  organizations.  Politically,  Chadians  have  endured 
a  series  of  authoritarian  regimes,  none  of  which  has  successfully 
limited  factionalism.  From  1960  until  1975,  Francois  Tombalbaye, 
a  civilian,  led  the  nation.  His  regime  was  characterized  by  southern 
domination  of  the  administrative  structure,  although  he  made 
modest  attempts  at  placating  northern  and  central  interests.  As  dis- 
affection in  these  regions  increased,  in  the  late  1960s  dissident 
groups  formed  an  antigovernment  coalition,  the  National  Libera- 
tion Front  of  Chad  (Front  de  Liberation  Nationale  du  Tchad — 
FROLINAT).  Although  never  fully  unified,  this  group  or  associated 


xxi 


elements  of  it  led  the  fight  for  greater  northern  and  central  represen- 
tation in  government. 

By  the  early  1970s,  Tombalbaye  had  alienated  not  only  these 
groups  but  also  even  much  of  the  south.  Although  he  was  wary 
of  a  French  military  presence  after  independence,  the  president 
readily  embraced  France's  support  in  stemming  violent  discontent. 
Nonetheless,  opposition  grew,  and  in  1975  Tombalaye  was  killed 
in  a  military  coup  d'etat.  Another  southerner,  Felix  Malloum,  as- 
sumed power,  but  he  had  no  more  success  than  his  predecessor 
in  suppressing  the  burgeoning  insurgencies  and  demands  for  greater 
regional  participation.  International  intervention  resulted  in  a  peace 
accord  between  the  government  and  the  rebels  and  the  formation 
of  the  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity  (Gouvernement 
d' Union  Nationale  de  Transition — GUNT).  For  many  observers, 
the  establishment  of  GUNT  was  a  watershed,  marking  the  end  of 
southern  political  domination.  It  did  not,  however,  bring  an  end 
to  strife. 

The  traditional  north- and- central  versus  south  split  was  trans- 
formed into  an  internecine  argument  among  former  opposition  fac- 
tions. GUNT's  most  important  leaders  were  northerners  Goukouni 
Oueddei  and  Hissein  Habre,  erstwhile  allies  in  FROLINAT's 
Second  Liberation  Army.  In  command  of  separate  factions,  they 
battled  one  another  for  control  of  the  capital,  N'Djamena  (see  Civil 
Conflict  and  Libyan  Intervention,  ch.  5).  With  Libyan  armed  sup- 
port, Goukouni  evicted  Habre' s  forces  at  the  end  of  1980.  Under 
pressure  from  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  and  other 
nations,  in  1981  Goukouni  asked  the  Libyan  troops  to  leave;  in 
their  place,  security  was  to  be  maintained  by  an  OAU  peacekeep- 
ing unit,  the  Inter- African  Force  (IAF).  Seizing  the  initiative, 
Habre 's  regrouped  and  resupplied  forces  attacked  from  the  north- 
east, and  by  1982  his  Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Forces  Armees 
du  Nord — FAN)  had  entered  the  capital,  without  any  IAF  inter- 
ference, and  sent  Goukouni  into  exile. 

Goukouni' s  defeat  was  only  temporary.  With  massive  Libyan 
military  aid,  by  mid- 1983  he  was  attacking  from  northern  strong- 
holds Habre 's  newly  formed  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Nationales  Tchadiennes — FANT).  Concerned 
about  Libyan  leader  Muammar  al  Qadhafl's  intentions,  France 
responded  by  dispatching  a  large  force  of  troops  and  advisers.  It 
also  began  a  round-the-clock  airlift  of  military  supplies  and  estab- 
lished forward  positions  roughly  along  16°  north  latitude.  As  a  result 
of  negotiations  with  Libya  that  required  a  mutual  withdrawal  of 
forces,  French  units  were  recalled  in  November  1984.  Libya, 


xxn 


however,  failed  to  comply  with  these  terms  and  reinforced  its 
presence,  especially  in  the  Aozou  Strip  (see  Glossary). 

In  1986  the  French  redeployed  to  Chad.  Habre's  forces,  which 
had  also  benefited  since  1983  from  weaponry  provided  by  the  United 
States,  launched  an  offensive  against  the  Libyan  positions  in  late 
1986  and  early  1987  that  resulted  in  the  routing  of  Libyan  troops 
and  the  capture  of  large  amounts  of  Libyan  military  equipment. 

By  late  1988,  a  measure  of  calm  had  been  restored  to  Chadian 
political  life.  Habre  was  attempting  to  consolidate  his  authority, 
but  at  the  same  time,  he  was  mending  some  of  the  divisiveness  that 
has  hampered  nation  building  (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4).  He 
weathered  a  rebellion  in  the  south  in  the  late  1980s  and  brought 
many  former  opponents  into  high-ranking  governmental  positions. 
He  sought  to  extend  his  regime  through  the  National  Union  for 
Independence  and  Revolution  (Union  Nationale  pour  l'lndepen- 
dance  et  la  Revolution — UNIR)  and  hoped  to  mobilize  Chadians 
in  rural  areas. 

These  good  intentions  notwithstanding,  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  Chadians  did  not  participate  in  the  political  process. 
The  Fundamental  Law  of  1982,  an  interim  constitution,  vested 
paramount  power  in  the  president,  who  ruled  almost  without 
challenge.  Although  a  committee  was  appointed  to  draft  a  perma- 
nent constitution,  as  of  late  1988  there  were  no  elected  bodies,  nor 
were  any  elections  planned. 

The  evolution  of  Chad's  armed  forces  mirrors  the  country's  po- 
litical transformation.  Like  the  governmental  structure  of  the  1960s, 
the  army  that  was  created  after  independence  was  dominated  by 
southern  groups.  This  fledgling  force  relied  heavily  on  French 
materiel  and — until  Tombalbaye  reconsidered  this  dependence — 
French  military  advisers.  But  neither  the  southern-dominated 
Chadian  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes — FAT)  nor 
the  French  units  could  deter  the  determined  insurgents  from  the 
northern  and  central  regions,  most  of  whom  fought  under  the 
FROLINAT  banner.  By  1978  FAT  was  in  disarray,  and  it  even- 
tually splintered  into  minor  factions. 

Habre's  FANT,  formed  in  1983,  continued  to  provide  national 
security  in  1988,  along  with  several  French  units.  FANT  was  a 
conglomeration  of  FAN  and  smaller  rebel  armies  that  rallied  to 
Habre's  side  in  the  1980s  (see  The  Armed  Forces,  ch.  5).  Many 
former  opposition  leaders  held  positions  of  authority  in  the  FANT 
organizational  structure.  In  addition  to  3  operational  battalions  and 
127  infantry  companies,  FANT  had  a  small  air  force. 

Chad's  internal  security  requirements  were  provided  by  the  well- 
trained  Presidential  Guard  and  by  several  national  and  territorial 


xxm 


elements  of  it  led  the  fight  for  greater  northern  and  central  represen- 
tation in  government. 

By  the  early  1970s,  Tombalbaye  had  alienated  not  only  these 
groups  but  also  even  much  of  the  south.  Although  he  was  wary 
of  a  French  military  presence  after  independence,  the  president 
readily  embraced  France's  support  in  stemming  violent  discontent. 
Nonetheless,  opposition  grew,  and  in  1975  Tombalaye  was  killed 
in  a  military  coup  d'etat.  Another  southerner,  Felix  Malloum,  as- 
sumed power,  but  he  had  no  more  success  than  his  predecessor 
in  suppressing  the  burgeoning  insurgencies  and  demands  for  greater 
regional  participation.  International  intervention  resulted  in  a  peace 
accord  between  the  government  and  the  rebels  and  the  formation 
of  the  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity  (Gouvernement 
d' Union  Nationale  de  Transition — GUNT).  For  many  observers, 
the  establishment  of  GUNT  was  a  watershed,  marking  the  end  of 
southern  political  domination.  It  did  not,  however,  bring  an  end 
to  strife. 

The  traditional  north-and-central  versus  south  split  was  trans- 
formed into  an  internecine  argument  among  former  opposition  fac- 
tions. GUNT's  most  important  leaders  were  northerners  Goukouni 
Oueddei  and  Hissein  Habre,  erstwhile  allies  in  FROLINAT's 
Second  Liberation  Army.  In  command  of  separate  factions,  they 
battled  one  another  for  control  of  the  capital,  N'Djamena  (see  Civil 
Conflict  and  Libyan  Intervention,  ch.  5).  With  Libyan  armed  sup- 
port, Goukouni  evicted  Habre 's  forces  at  the  end  of  1980.  Under 
pressure  from  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  and  other 
nations,  in  1981  Goukouni  asked  the  Libyan  troops  to  leave;  in 
their  place,  security  was  to  be  maintained  by  an  OAU  peacekeep- 
ing unit,  the  Inter- African  Force  (IAF).  Seizing  the  initiative, 
Habre 's  regrouped  and  resupplied  forces  attacked  from  the  north- 
east, and  by  1982  his  Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Forces  Armees 
du  Nord — FAN)  had  entered  the  capital,  without  any  IAF  inter- 
ference, and  sent  Goukouni  into  exile. 

Goukouni 's  defeat  was  only  temporary.  With  massive  Libyan 
military  aid,  by  mid- 1983  he  was  attacking  from  northern  strong- 
holds Habre 's  newly  formed  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Nationales  Tchadiennes — FANT).  Concerned 
about  Libyan  leader  Muammar  al  Qadhafi's  intentions,  France 
responded  by  dispatching  a  large  force  of  troops  and  advisers.  It 
also  began  a  round-the-clock  airlift  of  military  supplies  and  estab- 
lished forward  positions  roughly  along  16°  north  latitude.  As  a  result 
of  negotiations  with  Libya  that  required  a  mutual  withdrawal  of 
forces,  French  units  were  recalled  in  November  1984.  Libya, 


xxn 


however,  failed  to  comply  with  these  terms  and  reinforced  its 
presence,  especially  in  the  Aozou  Strip  (see  Glossary). 

In  1986  the  French  redeployed  to  Chad.  Habre's  forces,  which 
had  also  benefited  since  1983  from  weaponry  provided  by  the  United 
States,  launched  an  offensive  against  the  Libyan  positions  in  late 
1986  and  early  1987  that  resulted  in  the  routing  of  Libyan  troops 
and  the  capture  of  large  amounts  of  Libyan  military  equipment. 

By  late  1988,  a  measure  of  calm  had  been  restored  to  Chadian 
political  life.  Habre  was  attempting  to  consolidate  his  authority, 
but  at  the  same  time,  he  was  mending  some  of  the  divisiveness  that 
has  hampered  nation  building  (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4).  He 
weathered  a  rebellion  in  the  south  in  the  late  1980s  and  brought 
many  former  opponents  into  high-ranking  governmental  positions. 
He  sought  to  extend  his  regime  through  the  National  Union  for 
Independence  and  Revolution  (Union  Nationale  pour  l'lndepen- 
dance  et  la  Revolution — UNIR)  and  hoped  to  mobilize  Chadians 
in  rural  areas. 

These  good  intentions  notwithstanding,  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  Chadians  did  not  participate  in  the  political  process. 
The  Fundamental  Law  of  1982,  an  interim  constitution,  vested 
paramount  power  in  the  president,  who  ruled  almost  without 
challenge.  Although  a  committee  was  appointed  to  draft  a  perma- 
nent constitution,  as  of  late  1988  there  were  no  elected  bodies,  nor 
were  any  elections  planned. 

The  evolution  of  Chad's  armed  forces  mirrors  the  country's  po- 
litical transformation.  Like  the  governmental  structure  of  the  1960s, 
the  army  that  was  created  after  independence  was  dominated  by 
southern  groups.  This  fledgling  force  relied  heavily  on  French 
materiel  and — until  Tombalbaye  reconsidered  this  dependence — 
French  military  advisers.  But  neither  the  southern-dominated 
Chadian  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes — FAT)  nor 
the  French  units  could  deter  the  determined  insurgents  from  the 
northern  and  central  regions,  most  of  whom  fought  under  the 
FROLINAT  banner.  By  1978  FAT  was  in  disarray,  and  it  even- 
tually splintered  into  minor  factions. 

Habre's  FANT,  formed  in  1983,  continued  to  provide  national 
security  in  1988,  along  with  several  French  units.  FANT  was  a 
conglomeration  of  FAN  and  smaller  rebel  armies  that  rallied  to 
Habre's  side  in  the  1980s  (see  The  Armed  Forces,  ch.  5).  Many 
former  opposition  leaders  held  positions  of  authority  in  the  FANT 
organizational  structure.  In  addition  to  3  operational  battalions  and 
127  infantry  companies,  FANT  had  a  small  air  force. 

Chad's  internal  security  requirements  were  provided  by  the  well- 
trained  Presidential  Guard  and  by  several  national  and  territorial 


xxm 


police  forces  (see  Internal  Security  and  Public  Order,  ch.  5).  Fol- 
lowing the  defection  of  many  of  Goukouni's  followers  to  FANT  in 
the  late  1980s,  the  group  that  presented  the  most  serious  threat  to 
Chad's  security  was  the  Democratic  Revolutionary  Council  (Conseil 
Democratique  Revolutionnaire — CDR),  which,  under  Libyan  patron- 
age, was  active  in  the  north.  But  Qadhafi's  stated  desire  to  normal- 
ize relations  with  Chad,  enunciated  in  April  1988,  inspired  hopes 
that  a  period  of  genuine  peace — a  circumstance  that  the  nation  had 
not  enjoyed  during  the  previous  two  decades — might  finally  ensue. 

December  13,  1988 

*    *  * 

After  the  research  for  this  book  was  completed,  several  events 
occurred  that  greatly  affected  Chadian  affairs.  In  November  1988, 
Habre  convinced  Acheikh  ibn  Oumar,  the  leader  of  the  CDR,  to 
join  the  government.  In  accordance  with  his  policy  of  reconcilia- 
tion with  opponents,  in  March  1989  Habre  appointed  Oumar  as 
minister  of  foreign  affairs.  Three  high-ranking  officials,  reportedly 
members  of  the  Zaghawa  ethnic  group  who  resented  the  large  num- 
ber of  former  regime  opponents  named  to  influential  positions,  un- 
successfully collaborated  to  assassinate  Habre  on  the  night  of 
April  1,  1989.  The  three  plotters  were  Minister  of  Interior  Ibra- 
him Mahamat  Itno,  FANT  commander  in  chief  Hassane  Dja- 
mouss,  and  Idris  Deby,  a  high-ranking  FANT  officer;  at  one  time, 
all  of  them  had  been  very  close  advisers  to  the  president. 

According  to  one  report,  another  grievance  of  the  plotters  was 
that  Habre  had  been  persecuting  the  Zaghawa  while  promoting 
the  interests  of  the  Daza,  his  own  ethnic  group.  Indeed,  a  Novem- 
ber 1988  report  issued  by  the  human  rights  organization  Amnesty 
International  criticized  the  government  for  arbitrary  arrests  and 
unreasonable  detentions,  lending  credence  to  the  plotters'  claims. 

In  mid-June  1989,  the  fate  of  those  involved  in  the  coup  attempt 
was  unclear.  Most  accounts  claimed  that  Itno  had  been  arrested 
and  that  Djamouss  and  Deby  had  escaped  capture;  their  where- 
abouts, however,  were  unknown,  although  some  sources  reported 
them  to  be  in  Sudan  organizing  an  opposition  army.  Regardless 
of  their  circumstances,  it  was  apparent  in  mid- 1989  that  Habre 's 
policy  of  national  reconciliation  was  not  being  carried  out  to  the 
satisfaction  of  all  of  the  factions  in  Chad,  and  the  stability  of  the 
government  remained  uncertain. 


June  16,  1989  Thomas  Collelo 


XXIV 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


A  bronze  bracelet,  believed  to  be  from  the  Sao  period 


THE  CONTEMPORARY  ATTITUDES,  institutions,  and  prob- 
lems of  Chad  are  the  outgrowth  of  historical  traditions  and  tenden- 
cies that  have  evolved  over  more  than  1,000  years.  The  country 
is  populated  by  diverse,  yet  in  many  cases,  interrelated  peoples 
whose  evolution  was  characterized  by  intersecting  migrations,  splin- 
terings,  and  regroupings.  Most  of  the  country's  population  groups 
originated  in  areas  generally  north  and  east  of  Chad's  present-day 
boundaries. 

Chad's  geographic  position  along  major  trans-Saharan  trade 
routes  has  also  affected  its  historical  development.  In  early  times, 
trade  consisted  of  goods  and  slaves  seized  in  raids  on  groups  in 
the  south.  Consolidations  of  small  chiefdoms  led  to  the  evolution 
of  a  series  of  kingdoms  and  empires  in  the  central  region,  of  which 
the  most  important  were  Kanem-Borno,  Bagirmi,  and  Wadai.  The 
kingdoms  and  empires  based  their  power  on,  and  were  ultimately 
subjected  to,  raids  or  the  payment  of  tribute.  Although  there  were 
early  communities  in  both  northern  and  southern  Chad,  most  of 
the  country's  known  history  is  focused  on  the  Muslim  peoples  of 
the  central  region. 

The  political  fortunes  of  the  various  kingdoms  and  empires  were 
constantiy  affected  by  internal  factionalism  and  external  invasion — 
factors  that  still  influenced  political  affairs  in  the  1970s  and  1980s. 
Political  disintegration  was  evident  in  both  Borno  and  Bagirmi  when 
the  French  arrived  in  the  late  nineteenth  century.  The  rulers  of 
Wadai  resisted  the  French  advance.  The  leaders  of  Borno  and 
Bagirmi,  however,  regarded  the  French  less  as  conquerors  than 
as  a  counterbalance  to  the  ascendant  Wadai. 

The  French  declared  the  central  portion  of  the  country  officially 
pacified  in  1924  and  had  begun  administering  much  of  the  non- 
Muslim  south  before  that.  In  many  respects,  the  nomadic  north- 
ern groups  have  never  been  subjugated,  and  turmoil  in  the  north 
persisted  in  the  1980s. 

After  1905  the  central  and  northern  areas  were  administered  as 
a  territory  in  the  federation  of  French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique 
Equatoriale  Francaise — AEF;  see  Glossary).  French  interest, 
however,  focused  on  other  territories  in  the  federation,  and  until 
after  World  War  II,  the  French  presence  had  little  impact  on  the 
life  of  the  average  inhabitant.  The  French  limited  implementation 
of  their  administrative  policy  primarily  to  urban  areas  and  their 
compulsory  agricultural  programs  to  what  constitutes  the  south  of 


3 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

present-day  Chad.  Participation  by  the  local  population  in  the 
colonial  administration  was  marginal,  and  until  the  mid-1950s  the 
educational  opportunities  prerequisite  for  such  participation  were 
practically  nonexistent. 

After  World  War  II,  representative  institutions  were  introduced, 
and  the  growth  of  party  politics  began.  Political  groupings  reflected 
domestic  political  developments  in  France  and  traditional  ethnic 
factionalism  in  Chad.  Short-lived  political  coalitions  and  party  splin- 
terings  were  commonplace.  When  Chad  achieved  independence 
in  1960,  southerners — the  group  most  exposed  to  the  French  admin- 
istrators— dominated  political  life.  These  southerners  were  led  by 
President  Francois  Tombalbaye,  who  made  only  halfhearted  efforts 
at  regional  integration  in  government  and  who  generally  repressed 
opposition.  Within  five  years  of  having  taken  office,  Tombalbaye 's 
heavy-handed  approach  had  alienated  a  large  segment  of  the  popu- 
lation, especially  northerners  and  easterners,  and  had  spurred 
rebellions.  The  most  prominent  of  the  northern  rebel  groups  was 
the  National  Liberation  Front  of  Chad  (Front  de  Liberation 
Nationale  du  Tchad — FROLINAT),  an  umbrella  organization 
formed  in  1966.  Over  the  years,  FROLINAT  went  through  a  series 
of  transformations  and  fragmentations.  Nonetheless,  by  the  mid- 
1970s  rebel  activity,  in  conjunction  with  Tombalbaye' s  political 
ineptitude,  helped  bring  about  the  government's  downfall.  Tom- 
balbaye was  killed  in  1975  during  a  military  coup  d'etat  led  by 
Felix  Malloum. 

The  new  government,  however,  had  no  more  success  than  its 
predecessor  in  halting  rebel  activity.  In  1979  Hissein  Habre,  a 
northern  rebel  leader,  ousted  Malloum.  Throughout  the  1980s,  the 
quest  for  political  control  changed  from  a  north-south  struggle  to 
a  primarily  northern  intraregional  conflict.  The  turmoil  of  the  late 
1970s  and  1980s  had  international  and  domestic  aspects,  as  Libya, 
France,  the  United  States,  and  many  African  nations  became 
involved  in  the  Chadian  imbroglio.  By  early  1988,  stability  had 
been  restored,  but  inter-  and  intraethnic  differences,  as  well  as 
regional  divisions,  continued  to  threaten  Chad's  progress  toward 
national  integration. 

Prehistory 

The  territory  now  known  as  Chad  possesses  some  of  the  richest 
archaeological  sites  in  Africa.  During  the  seventh  millennium  B.C., 
the  northern  half  of  Chad  was  part  of  a  broad  expanse  of  land, 
stretching  from  the  Indus  River  in  the  east  to  the  Atiantic  Ocean 
in  the  west,  in  which  ecological  conditions  favored  early  human 
settlement.  Rock  art  of  the  ''Round  Head"  style,  found  in  the 


4 


Historical  Setting 


Ennedi  region,  has  been  dated  to  before  the  seventh  millennium 
B.C.  and,  because  of  the  tools  with  which  the  rocks  were  carved 
and  the  scenes  they  depict,  may  represent  the  oldest  evidence  in 
the  Sahara  of  Neolithic  industries.  Many  of  the  pottery-making 
and  Neolithic  activities  in  Ennedi  date  back  further  than  any  of 
those  of  the  Nile  Valley  to  the  east. 

In  the  prehistoric  period,  Chad  was  much  wetter  than  it  is  today, 
as  evidenced  by  large  game  animals  depicted  in  rock  paintings  in 
the  Tibesti  and  Borkou  regions.  Recent  linguistic  research  suggests 
that  all  of  Africa's  languages  south  of  the  Sahara  Desert  (except 
Khoisan)  originated  in  prehistoric  times  in  a  narrow  band  between 
Lake  Chad  and  the  Nile  Valley  (see  Languages  and  Ethnic  Groups, 
ch.  2).  The  origins  of  Chad's  peoples,  however,  remain  unclear. 
Several  of  the  proven  archaeological  sites  have  been  only  partially 
studied,  and  other  sites  of  great  potential  have  yet  to  be  mapped. 

Era  of  Empires,  A.D.  900-1900 

Toward  the  end  of  the  first  millennium  A.D.,  the  formation  of 
states  began  across  central  Chad  in  the  sahelian  zone  between  the 
desert  and  the  savanna.  For  almost  the  next  1,000  years,  these 
states,  their  relations  with  each  other,  and  their  effects  on  the  peo- 
ples who  lived  in  "stateless"  societies  along  their  peripheries  domi- 
nated Chad's  political  history.  Recent  research  suggests  that 
indigenous  Africans  founded  most  of  these  states,  not  migrating 
Arabic- speaking  groups,  as  was  believed  previously.  Nonetheless, 
immigrants,  Arabic-speaking  or  otherwise,  played  a  significant  role, 
along  with  Islam,  in  the  formation  and  early  evolution  of  these  states 
(see  Islam,  ch.  2). 

Most  states  began  as  kingdoms,  in  which  the  king  was  considered 
divine  and  endowed  with  temporal  and  spiritual  powers.  All  states 
were  militaristic  (or  they  did  not  survive  long),  but  none  was  able 
to  expand  far  into  southern  Chad,  where  forests  and  the  tsetse  fly 
complicated  the  use  of  cavalry.  Control  over  the  trans-Saharan  trade 
routes  that  passed  through  the  region  formed  the  economic  basis 
of  these  kingdoms.  Although  many  states  rose  and  fell,  the  most 
important  and  durable  of  the  empires  were  Kanem-Borno,  Bagirmi, 
and  Wadai,  according  to  most  written  sources  (mainly  court  chroni- 
cles and  writings  of  Arab  traders  and  travelers). 

Kanem-Borno 

The  Kanem  Empire  originated  in  the  ninth  century  A.D.  to  the 
northeast  of  Lake  Chad  (see  fig.  2).  It  was  formed  from  a  confedera- 
tion of  nomadic  peoples  who  spoke  languages  of  the  Teda-Daza 
(Toubou)  group  (see  Languages  and  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2).  One 


5 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


14  18 

To  Fezzan 
and  Mediterranean  Sea 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Anders  J.  Bjorkelo,  State  and  Society  in  Three  Sudanic 
Kingdoms,  Bergen,  Norway,  1976,  5. 


Figure  2.  Empires  of  the  Chad  Region 

theory,  based  on  early  Arabic  sources,  suggests  that  the  dominance 
of  the  Zaghawa  people  bound  the  confederation  together.  But  local 
oral  traditions  omit  the  Zaghawa  and  refer  instead  to  a  legendary 
Arab,  Sayf  ibn  Dhi  Yazan — believed  by  some  to  have  been  a 
Yemeni — who  assumed  leadership  of  the  Magoumi  clan  and  began 
the  Sayfawa  dynastic  lineage.  Historians  agree  that  the  leaders  of 
the  new  state  were  ancestors  of  the  Kanembu  people.  The  leaders 
adopted  the  title  mai,  or  king,  and  their  subjects  regarded  them 
as  divine. 

One  factor  that  influenced  the  formation  of  states  in  Chad  was 
the  penetration  of  Islam  during  the  tenth  century.  Arabs  migrat- 
ing from  the  north  and  east  brought  the  new  religion.  Toward  the 
end  of  the  eleventh  century,  the  Sayfawa  king,  Mai  Humai,  con- 
verted to  Islam.  (Some  historians  believe  that  it  was  Humai  rather 
than  Sayf  ibn  Dhi  Yazan  who  established  the  Sayfawa  lineage  as 
the  ruling  dynasty  of  Kanem.)  Islam  offered  the  Sayfawa  rulers 
the  advantages  of  new  ideas  from  Arabia  and  the  Mediterranean 
world,  as  well  as  literacy  in  administration.  But  many  people  resisted 
the  new  religion  in  favor  of  traditional  beliefs  and  practices.  When 


6 


Historical  Setting 


Humai  converted,  for  example,  it  is  believed  that  the  Zaghawa 
broke  from  the  empire  and  moved  east.  This  pattern  of  conflict 
and  compromise  with  Islam  occurs  repeatedly  in  Chadian  history. 

Prior  to  the  twelfth  century,  the  nomadic  Sayfawa  confedera- 
tion expanded  southward  into  Kanem  (the  word  for  "south"  in 
the  Teda  language).  By  the  thirteenth  century,  Kanem 's  rule 
expanded.  At  the  same  time,  the  Kanembu  people  became  more 
sedentary  and  established  a  capital  at  Njimi,  northeast  of  Lake 
Chad.  Even  though  the  Kanembu  were  becoming  more  sedentary, 
Kanem 's  rulers  continued  to  travel  frequendy  throughout  the  king- 
dom to  remind  the  herders  and  farmers  of  the  government's  power 
and  to  allow  them  to  demonstrate  their  allegiance  by  paying  tribute. 

Kanem 's  expansion  peaked  during  the  long  and  energetic  reign 
of  Mai  Dunama  Dabbalemi  (ca.  1221-59).  Dabbalemi  initiated 
diplomatic  exchanges  with  sultans  in  North  Africa  and  apparently 
arranged  for  the  establishment  of  a  special  hostel  in  Cairo  to  facilitate 
pilgrimages  to  Mecca.  During  Dabbalemi' s  reign,  the  Fezzan  region 
(in  present-day  Libya)  fell  under  Kanem' s  authority,  and  the 
empire's  influence  extended  westward  to  Kano,  eastward  to  Wadai, 
and  southward  to  the  Adamawa  grasslands  (in  present-day  Cam- 
eroon). Portraying  these  boundaries  on  maps  can  be  misleading, 
however,  because  the  degree  of  control  extended  in  ever- weakening 
gradations  from  the  core  of  the  empire  around  Njimi  to  remote 
peripheries,  from  which  allegiance  and  tribute  were  usually  only 
symbolic.  Moreover,  cartographic  lines  are  static  and  misrepresent 
the  mobility  inherent  in  nomadism  and  migration,  which  were  com- 
mon. The  loyalty  of  peoples  and  their  leaders  was  more  important 
in  governance  than  the  physical  control  of  territory. 

Dabbalemi  devised  a  system  to  reward  military  commanders  with 
authority  over  the  people  they  conquered.  This  system,  however, 
tempted  military  officers  to  pass  their  positions  to  their  sons,  thus 
transforming  the  office  from  one  based  on  achievement  and  loyalty 
to  the  mai  into  one  based  on  hereditary  nobility.  Dabbalemi  was 
able  to  suppress  this  tendency,  but  after  his  death,  dissension  among 
his  sons  weakened  the  Sayfawa  Dynasty.  Dynastic  feuds  degener- 
ated into  civil  war,  and  Kanem 's  outiying  peoples  soon  ceased  pay- 
ing tribute. 

By  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century,  internal  struggles  and  exter- 
nal attacks  had  torn  Kanem  apart.  Between  1376  and  1400,  six 
mais  reigned,  but  Bulala  invaders  (from  the  area  around  Lake  Fitri 
to  the  east)  killed  five  of  them.  This  proliferation  of  mais  resulted 
in  numerous  claimants  to  the  throne  and  led  to  a  series  of  inter- 
necine wars.  Finally,  around  1396  the  Bulala  forced  Mai  Umar 
Idrismi  to  abandon  Njimi  and  move  the  Kanembu  people  to  Borno 


7 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

on  the  western  edge  of  Lake  Chad.  Over  time,  the  intermarriage 
of  the  Kanembu  and  Borno  peoples  created  a  new  people  and  lan- 
guage, the  Kanuri. 

But  even  in  Borno,  the  Sayfawa  Dynasty's  troubles  persisted. 
During  the  first  three-quarters  of  the  fifteenth  century,  for  exam- 
ple, fifteen  mais  occupied  the  throne.  Then,  around  1472  Mai  Ali 
Dunamami  defeated  his  rivals  and  began  the  consolidation  of  Borno. 
He  built  a  fortified  capital  at  Ngazargamu,  to  the  west  of  Lake 
Chad  (in  present-day  Niger),  the  first  permanent  home  a  Sayfawa 
mai  had  enjoyed  in  a  century.  So  successful  was  the  Sayfawa 
rejuvenation  that  by  the  early  sixteenth  century  the  Bulala  were 
defeated  and  Njimi  retaken.  The  empire's  leaders,  however, 
remained  at  Ngazargamu  because  its  lands  were  more  productive 
agriculturally  and  better  suited  to  the  raising  of  catde. 

Kanem-Borno  peaked  during  the  reign  of  the  outstanding 
statesman  Mai  Idris  Aluma  (ca.  1571-1603).  Aluma  (also  spelled 
Alooma)  is  remembered  for  his  military  skills,  administrative 
reforms,  and  Islamic  piety.  His  main  adversaries  were  the  Hausa 
to  the  west,  the  Tuareg  and  Toubou  to  the  north,  and  the  Bulala 
to  the  east.  One  epic  poem  extols  his  victories  in  330  wars  and  more 
than  1,000  battles.  His  innovations  included  the  employment  of 
fixed  military  camps  (with  walls);  permanent  sieges  and  " scorched 
earth"  tactics,  where  soldiers  burned  everything  in  their  path; 
armored  horses  and  riders;  and  the  use  of  Berber  camelry,  Kotoko 
boatmen,  and  iron-helmeted  musketeers  trained  by  Turkish  mili- 
tary advisers.  His  active  diplomacy  featured  relations  with  Tripoli, 
Egypt,  and  the  Ottoman  Empire,  which  sent  a  200-member  ambas- 
sadorial party  across  the  desert  to  Aluma' s  court  at  Ngazargamu. 
Aluma  also  signed  what  was  probably  the  first  written  treaty  or 
cease-fire  in  Chadian  history.  (Like  many  cease-fires  negotiated 
in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  it  was  promptly  broken.) 

Aluma  introduced  a  number  of  legal  and  administrative  reforms 
based  on  his  religious  beliefs  and  Islamic  law  (sharia).  He  spon- 
sored the  construction  of  numerous  mosques  and  made  a  pilgrimage 
to  Mecca,  where  he  arranged  for  the  establishment  of  a  hostel  to 
be  used  by  pilgrims  from  his  empire.  As  with  other  dynamic  poli- 
ticians, Aluma' s  reformist  goals  led  him  to  seek  loyal  and  compe- 
tent advisers  and  allies,  and  he  frequently  relied  on  slaves  who  had 
been  educated  in  noble  homes.  Aluma  regularly  sought  advice  from 
a  council  composed  of  heads  of  the  most  important  clans.  He 
required  major  political  figures  to  live  at  the  court,  and  he  rein- 
forced political  alliances  through  appropriate  marriages  (Aluma 
himself  was  the  son  of  a  Kanuri  father  and  a  Bulala  mother). 


8 


Historical  Setting 


Kanem-Borno  under  Aluma  was  strong  and  wealthy.  Govern- 
ment revenue  came  from  tribute  (or  booty,  if  the  recalcitrant  peo- 
ple had  to  be  conquered),  sales  of  slaves,  and  duties  on  and 
participation  in  trans-Saharan  trade.  Unlike  West  Africa,  the 
Chadian  region  did  not  have  gold.  Still,  it  was  central  to  one  of 
the  most  convenient  trans-Saharan  routes.  Between  Lake  Chad  and 
Fezzan  lay  a  sequence  of  well-spaced  wells  and  oases,  and  from 
Fezzan  there  were  easy  connections  to  North  Africa  and  the 
Mediterranean  Sea.  Many  products  were  sent  north,  including 
natron  (sodium  carbonate),  cotton,  kola  nuts,  ivory,  ostrich  feathers, 
perfume,  wax,  and  hides,  but  the  most  important  of  all  were  slaves. 
Imports  included  salt,  horses,  silks,  glass,  muskets,  and  copper. 

Aluma  took  a  keen  interest  in  trade  and  other  economic  mat- 
ters. He  is  credited  with  having  the  roads  cleared,  designing  bet- 
ter boats  for  Lake  Chad,  introducing  standard  units  of  measure 
for  grain,  and  moving  farmers  into  new  lands.  In  addition,  he 
improved  the  ease  and  security  of  transit  through  the  empire  with 
the  goal  of  making  it  so  safe  that  "a  lone  woman  clad  in  gold  might 
walk  with  none  to  fear  but  God." 

The  administrative  reforms  and  military  brilliance  of  Aluma  sus- 
tained the  empire  until  the  mid- 1600s,  when  its  power  began  to 
fade.  By  the  late  1700s,  Borno  rule  extended  only  westward,  into 
the  land  of  the  Hausa.  Around  that  time,  Fulani  people,  invading 
from  the  west,  were  able  to  make  major  inroads  into  Borno.  By 
the  early  nineteenth  century,  Kanem-Borno  was  clearly  an  empire 
in  decline,  and  in  1808  Fulani  warriors  conquered  Ngazargamu. 
Usman  dan  Fodio  led  the  Fulani  thrust  and  proclaimed  a  jihad  (holy 
war)  on  the  irreligious  Muslims  of  the  area.  His  campaign  even- 
tually affected  Kanem-Borno  and  inspired  a  trend  toward  Islamic 
orthodoxy.  But  Muhammad  al  Kanem  contested  the  Fulani 
advance.  Kanem  was  a  Muslim  scholar  and  non-Sayfawa  warlord 
who  had  put  together  an  alliance  of  Shuwa  Arabs,  Kanembu,  and 
other  seminomadic  peoples.  He  eventually  built  a  capital  at  Kukawa 
(in  present-day  Nigeria).  Sayfawa  mais  remained  titular  monarchs 
until  1846.  In  that  year,  the  last  mai,  in  league  with  Wadai  tribes- 
men, precipitated  a  civil  war.  It  was  at  that  point  that  Kanem 's 
son,  Umar,  became  king,  thus  ending  one  of  the  longest  dynastic 
reigns  in  regional  history. 

Although  the  dynasty  ended,  the  kingdom  of  Kanem-Borno  sur- 
vived. But  Umar,  who  eschewed  the  title  mai  for  the  simpler  desig- 
nation shehu  (from  the  Arabic  "shaykh"),  could  not  match  his 
father's  vitality  and  gradually  allowed  the  kingdom  to  be  ruled  by 
advisers  (wazirs).  Borno  began  to  decline,  as  a  result  of  adminis- 
trative disorganization,  regional  particularism,  and  attacks  by  the 


9 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


militant  Wadai  Empire  to  the  east.  The  decline  continued  under 
Umar's  sons,  and  in  1893  Rabih  Fadlallah,  leading  an  invading 
army  from  eastern  Sudan,  conquered  Borno. 

Bagirmi  and  Wadai 

In  addition  to  Kanem-Borno,  two  other  states  in  the  region, 
Bagirmi  and  Wadai,  achieved  historical  prominence.  The  king- 
dom of  Bagirmi  emerged  to  the  southeast  of  Kanem-Borno  in  the 
sixteenth  century.  Under  the  reign  of  Abdullah  IV  (1568-98),  Islam 
was  adopted,  and  the  state  became  a  sultanate,  using  Islamic  judi- 
cial and  administrative  procedures.  Later,  a  palace  and  court  were 
constructed  in  the  capital  city  of  Massenya. 

Bagirmi 's  political  history  was  a  function  of  its  strength  and  unity 
in  relation  to  its  larger  neighbors.  Absorbed  into  Kanem-Borno 
during  the  reign  of  Aluma,  Bagirmi  broke  free  later  in  the  1600s, 
only  to  be  returned  to  tributary  status  in  the  mid- 1700s.  During 
periods  of  strength,  the  sultanate  became  imperialistic.  It  estab- 
lished control  over  small  feudal  kingdoms  on  its  peripheries  and 
entered  into  alliances  with  nearby  nomadic  peoples.  Early  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  Bagirmi  fell  into  decay  and  was  threatened 
militarily  by  the  nearby  kingdom  of  Wadai.  Although  Bagirmi 
resisted,  it  accepted  tributary  status  in  order  to  obtain  help  from 
Wadai  in  putting  down  internal  dissension.  When  Rabih  Fadlal- 
lah's  forces  burned  Massenya  in  1893,  the  twenty-fifth  sultan,  Abd 
ar  Rahman  Gwaranga,  sought  and  received  protectorate  status  from 
the  French. 

Located  northeast  of  Bagirmi,  Wadai  was  a  non-Muslim  king- 
dom that  emerged  in  the  sixteenth  century  as  an  offshoot  of  the 
state  of  Darfur  (in  present-day  Sudan).  Early  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  the  Maba  and  other  small  groups  in  the  region  rallied  to 
the  Islamic  banner  of  Abd  al  Karim,  who  led  an  invasion  from 
the  east  and  overthrew  the  ruling  Tunjur  group.  Abd  al  Karim 
established  a  dynasty  and  sultanate  that  lasted  until  the  arrival  of 
the  French.  During  much  of  the  eighteenth  century,  Wadai  resisted 
reincorporation  into  Darfur. 

In  about  1800,  during  the  reign  of  Sabun,  the  sultanate  of  Wadai 
began  to  expand  its  power.  A  new  trade  route  north — via  Ennedi, 
Al  Kufrah,  and  Benghazi — was  discovered,  and  Sabun  outfitted 
royal  caravans  to  take  advantage  of  it.  He  began  minting  his  own 
coinage  and  imported  chain  mail,  firearms,  and  military  advisers 
from  North  Africa.  Sabun' s  successors  were  less  able  than  he,  and 
Darfur  took  advantage  of  a  disputed  political  succession  in  1838 
to  put  its  own  candidate  in  power  in  Wara,  the  capital  of  Wadai. 
This  tactic  backfired,  however,  when  Darfur' s  choice,  Muhammad 


10 


Historical  Setting 


Sharif,  rejected  Darfur's  meddling  and  asserted  his  own  authority. 
In  doing  so,  he  gained  acceptance  from  Wadai's  various  factions 
and  went  on  to  become  Wadai's  ablest  ruler. 

Sharif  conducted  military  campaigns  as  far  west  as  Borno  and 
eventually  established  Wadai's  hegemony  over  Bagirmi  and  king- 
doms as  far  away  as  the  Chari  River.  In  Mecca,  Sharif  had  met 
the  founder  of  the  Sanusiyya  Islamic  brotherhood,  a  movement 
that  was  strong  among  the  inhabitants  of  Cyrenaica  (in  present- 
day  Libya)  and  that  was  to  become  a  dominant  political  force  and 
source  of  resistance  to  French  colonization  (see  Islam,  ch.  2). 
Indeed,  the  militaristic  Wadai  opposed  French  domination  until 
well  into  the  twentieth  century. 

Arrival  of  the  French  and  Colonial  Administration 

European  interest  in  Africa  generally  grew  during  the  nineteenth 
century.  By  1887  France,  motivated  by  the  search  for  wealth,  had 
driven  inland  from  its  settlements  on  central  Africa's  west  coast 
to  claim  the  territory  of  Ubangi-Chari  (present-day  Central  Afri- 
can Republic).  It  claimed  this  area  as  a  zone  of  French  influence, 
and  within  two  years  it  occupied  part  of  what  is  now  southern  Chad. 
In  the  early  1890s,  French  military  expeditions  sent  to  Chad  encoun- 
tered the  forces  of  Rabih  Fadlallah,  who  had  been  conducting  slave 
raids  {razzias)  in  southern  Chad  throughout  the  1890s  and  had 
sacked  the  settlements  of  Kanem-Borno,  Bagirmi,  and  Wadai.  After 
years  of  indecisive  engagements,  French  forces  finally  defeated 
Rabih  Fadlallah  at  the  Battle  of  Kousseri  in  1900. 

Two  fundamental  themes  dominated  Chad's  colonial  experience 
with  the  French:  an  absence  of  policies  designed  to  unify  the  terri- 
tory and  an  exceptionally  slow  pace  of  modernization.  In  the  French 
scale  of  priorities,  the  colony  of  Chad  ranked  near  the  bottom;  it 
was  less  important  than  non- African  territories,  North  Africa,  West 
Africa,  or  even  the  other  French  possessions  in  Central  Africa.  The 
French  came  to  perceive  Chad  primarily  as  a  source  of  raw  cotton 
and  untrained  labor  to  be  used  in  the  more  productive  colonies 
to  the  south.  Within  Chad  there  was  neither  the  will  nor  the 
resources  to  do  much  more  than  maintain  a  semblance  of  law  and 
order.  In  fact,  even  this  basic  function  of  governance  was  often 
neglected;  throughout  the  colonial  period,  large  areas  of  Chad  were 
never  governed  effectively  from  N'Djamena  (called  Fort-Lamy  prior 
to  September  1973). 

Chad  was  linked  in  1905  with  three  French  colonies  to  the  south — 
Ubangi-Chari,  Moyen-Congo  (present-day  Congo),  and  Gabon. 
But  Chad  did  not  receive  separate  colony  status  or  a  unified  admin- 
istrative policy  until  1920.  The  four  colonies  were  administered 


11 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


together  as  French  Equatorial  Africa  under  the  direction  of  a  gover- 
nor general  stationed  in  Brazzaville.  The  governor  general  had 
broad  administrative  control  over  the  federation,  including  exter- 
nal and  internal  security,  economic  and  financial  affairs,  and  all 
communications  with  the  French  minister  of  the  colonies.  Lieu- 
tenant governors,  also  appointed  by  the  French  government,  were 
expected  to  implement  in  each  colony  the  orders  of  the  governor 
general.  The  central  administration  in  Brazzaville  tighdy  controlled 
the  lieutenant  governors  despite  reformist  efforts  toward  decentrali- 
zation between  1910  and  1946.  Chad's  lieutenant  governor  had 
greater  autonomy  because  of  the  distance  from  Brazzaville  and 
because  of  France's  much  greater  interest  in  the  other  three  colonies. 

The  lines  of  control  from  Brazzaville,  feeble  as  they  may  have 
been,  were  still  stronger  than  those  from  N'Djamena  to  its  hinter- 
land. In  the  huge  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture,  the  handful 
of  French  military  administrators  soon  reached  a  tacit  agreement 
with  the  inhabitants  of  the  desert;  as  long  as  caravan  trails  remained 
relatively  secure  and  minimal  levels  of  law  and  order  were  met, 
the  military  administration  (headquartered  in  Faya  Largeau)  usually 
left  the  people  alone  (see  fig.  1).  In  central  Chad,  French  rule  was 
only  slighdy  more  substantive.  In  Ouaddai  and  Biltine  prefectures, 
endemic  resistance  continued  against  the  French  and,  in  some  cases, 
against  any  authority  that  attempted  to  suppress  banditry  and 
brigandage.  The  thinly  staffed  colonial  administration  provided  only 
weak  supervision  over  arid  Kanem  Prefecture  and  the  sparsely 
populated  areas  of  Guera  and  Salamat  prefectures.  Old-fashioned 
razzias  continued  in  the  1920s,  and  it  was  reported  in  1923  that 
a  group  of  Senegalese  Muslims  on  their  way  to  Mecca  had  been 
seized  and  sold  into  slavery.  Unwilling  to  expend  the  resources 
required  for  effective  administration,  the  French  government 
responded  with  sporadic  coercion  and  a  growing  reliance  on  indirect 
rule  through  the  sultanates. 

France  managed  to  govern  effectively  only  the  south,  but  until 
1946  administrative  direction  came  from  Bangui  in  Ubangi-Chari 
rather  than  N'Djamena.  Unlike  northern  and  central  Chad,  a 
French  colonial  system  of  direct  civilian  administration  was  set  up 
among  the  Sara,  a  southern  ethnic  group,  and  their  neighbors.  Also, 
unlike  the  rest  of  Chad,  a  modest  level  of  economic  development 
occurred  in  the  south  because  of  the  introduction  in  1929  of  large- 
scale  cotton  production  (see  Cotton,  ch.  3).  Remittances  and  pen- 
sions to  southerners  who  served  in  the  French  military  also  enhanced 
economic  well-being. 

But  even  the  advantages  of  more  income,  schools,  and  roads 
failed  to  win  popular  support  for  the  French  in  the  south.  In  addition 


12 


A  view  of  Faya  Largeau,  a  former  French  outpost 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

to  earlier  grievances,  such  as  forced  porterage  (which  claimed  thou- 
sands of  lives)  and  village  relocation,  southern  farmers  resented 
the  mandatory  quotas  for  the  production  of  cotton,  which  France 
purchased  at  artificially  low  prices.  Government-protected  chiefs 
further  abused  this  situation.  The  chiefs  were  resented  all  the  more 
because  they  were  generally  the  artificial  creations  of  the  French 
in  a  region  of  previously  stateless  societies.  This  commonality  of 
treatment  and  the  colonial  organizational  framework  began  to  create 
during  this  period  a  sense  of  Sara  ethnicity  among  persons  whose 
collective  identities  had  previously  been  limited  to  small  kinship 
groups. 

Although  France  had  put  forth  considerable  effort  during  the 
conquest  of  Chad,  the  ensuing  administration  of  the  territory  was 
halfhearted.  Officials  in  the  French  colonial  service  resisted  assign- 
ments to  Chad,  so  posts  often  went  to  novices  or  to  out-of-favor 
officials.  One  historian  of  France's  empire  has  concluded  that  it 
was  almost  impossible  to  be  too  demented  or  depraved  to  be  con- 
sidered unfit  for  duty  in  Chad.  Still,  major  scandals  occurred  peri- 
odically, and  many  of  the  posts  remained  vacant.  In  1928,  for 
example,  42  percent  of  the  Chadian  subdivisions  lacked  official 
administrators  .- 

An  event  occurred  in  1935  that  was  to  have  far-reaching  conse- 
quences throughout  the  1970s  and  1980s.  In  that  year,  the  French 


13 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


colonial  administration  negotiated  a  border  adjustment  with  Italy, 
Libya's  colonial  master.  The  adjustment  would  have  relocated  the 
Libyan-Chad  boundary  about  100  kilometers  south  across  the 
Aozou  Strip  (see  Glossary).  Although  the  French  legislature  never 
ratified  the  agreement,  the  negotiations  formed  part  of  the  basis 
of  Libya's  claim  to  the  area  decades  later. 

Decolonization  Politics 

In  1940  Chad  became  internationally  prominent  when  its  lieu- 
tenant governor,  Felix  Eboue,  led  the  rest  of  the  AEF  federation 
to  support  the  Free  French  under  Charles  de  Gaulle  rather  than 
the  government  of  Vichy  France.  Chad  became  the  base  for  Colonel 
Jacques  Leclerc's  conquest  of  the  Fezzan  (1940-43),  and  the  entire 
episode  became  the  basis  of  an  enduring  sentimental  bond  between 
the  France  of  de  Gaulle's  generation  and  Chad.  More  funds  and 
attention  flowed  to  Chad  than  ever  before,  and  Eboue  became  the 
governor  general  of  the  entire  AEF  in  November  1941. 

Born  in  French  Guiana  of  mixed  African  and  European  parent- 
age, Eboue  was  keenly  interested  in  the  problems  of  cultural  dis- 
location resulting  from  unchecked  modernization  in  Africa.  He 
worked  to  return  authority  to  authentic  traditional  leaders  while 
training  them  in  modern  administrative  techniques.  He  recognized 
a  place  for  African  middle-class  professionals  in  cities,  but  he 
opposed  the  migration  of  workers  to  cities,  supporting  instead  the 
creation  of  integrated  rural  industries  where  workers  could  remain 
with  their  families.  When  Eboue  died  in  1944,  the  AEF  lost  a  major 
source  of  progressive  ideas,  and  Chad  lost  a  leader  with  consider- 
able influence  in  France. 

French  voters  rejected  many  of  the  progressive  ideas  of  Eboue 
and  others  after  the  war  ended.  Nevertheless,  the  constitution  that 
was  approved  in  1946  granted  Chad  and  other  African  colonies 
the  right  to  elect  a  territorial  assembly  with  limited  powers.  The 
Assembly  in  turn  elected  delegates  to  the  French  General  Council 
of  all  the  AEF  (see  Preindependence  Factions,  ch.  4).  The  posi- 
tion of  governor  general  was  redesignated  high  commissioner,  and 
each  territory  gained  the  right  to  elect  representatives  to  French 
parliamentary  bodies,  including  the  National  Assembly,  the  Council 
of  the  Republic,  and  the  Assembly  of  the  French  Union.  The  Afri- 
can peoples  became  French  citizens,  and  the  colonies  were  desig- 
nated overseas  territories  of  France.  But  the  real  locus  of  authority 
remained  in  Paris,  and  French  personnel  continued  to  dominate 
the  AEF's  administration.  No  formal  attempt  was  made  to  train 
Chadian  Africans  for  civil  service  positions  before  1955. 


14 


Historical  Setting 


Until  the  early  1950s,  political  forces  originating  in  France  domi- 
nated the  development  of  politics  in  Chad.  Local  elections  were 
won  largely  by  members  of  the  Chadian  Democratic  Union  (Union 
Democratique  Tchadienne — UDT),  which  was  associated  with  a 
political  party  in  France,  the  Assembly  of  French  People.  The  UDT 
represented  French  commercial  interests  and  a  bloc  of  traditional 
leaders  composed  primarily  of  Muslim  and  Ouaddaian  nobility. 
Chad's  European  community  initiated  the  practice  of  using  the  civil 
service  for  partisan  political  ends;  African  civil  servants  who  were 
identified  with  organizations  opposed  to  the  UDT  soon  found  them- 
selves dismissed  or  transferred  to  distant  posts.  For  example,  Fran- 
cois Tombalbaye  (later  to  become  president)  lost  his  job  as  a  teacher 
and  ended  up  making  bricks  by  hand  because  of  his  union  activi- 
ties and  his  role  in  the  opposition  Chadian  Progressive  Party  (Parti 
Progressiste  Tchadien — PPT). 

Nonetheless,  by  1953  politics  were  becoming  less  European  domi- 
nated, and  the  PPT  was  emerging  as  the  major  rival  of  the  UDT. 
The  leader  of  the  PPT  was  Gabriel  Lisette,  a  black  colonial  admin- 
istrator born  in  Panama  and  posted  to  Chad  in  1946.  Elected  as 
a  deputy  to  the  French  National  Assembly,  Lisette  was  later  chosen 
as  secretary  general  of  the  African  Democratic  Assembly  (Rassem- 
blement  Democratique  Africain — RDA),  an  interterritorial,  Marxist- 
oriented  party  considered  quite  radical  at  the  time.  The  PPT 
originated  as  a  territorial  branch  of  the  RDA  and  rapidly  became 
the  political  vehicle  of  the  country's  non-Muslim  intellectuals. 
Traditional  rulers  perceived  the  PPT  to  be  antithetical  to  their 
interests  and  recognized  that  the  local  territorial  assembly  could 
adversely  affect  their  revenue  and  power.  These  factors  persuaded 
traditional  rulers  to  become  more  active  in  the  UDT,  which, 
because  of  internal  divisions,  had  changed  its  name  in  the  late  1950s 
to  the  Chadian  Social  Action  (Action  Sociale  Tchadienne — AST). 

Although  party  names  changed  frequentiy  and  dramatic  factional 
schisms  occurred  throughout  the  1950s,  electoral  competition  was 
essentially  between  three  political  blocs:  the  UDT  [AST],  the  PPT, 
and  the  allies  of  Ahmed  Koulamallah  from  Chari-Baguirmi  and 
Kanem  prefectures.  A  clever  politician  and  charismatic  leader  of 
the  Tijaniyya  Islamic  brotherhood  in  Chad,  Koulamallah  cam- 
paigned in  different  times  and  places  as  a  member  of  the  Bagirmi 
nobility  (he  was  an  estranged  son  of  the  sultan),  a  radical  socialist 
leader,  or  a  militant  Muslim  fundamentalist.  As  a  result,  politics 
in  the  1950s  was  a  struggle  between  the  south,  which  mostly  sup- 
ported the  PPT,  and  the  Muslim  sahelian  belt,  which  favored  the 
UDT  [AST].  Koulamallah  played  a  generally  disruptive  role  in 
the  middle. 


15 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


In  1956  the  French  National  Assembly  passed  the  lot  cadre 
(enabling  act),  which  resulted  in  greater  self-rule  for  Chad  and  other 
African  territories.  Electoral  reforms  expanded  the  pool  of  eligible 
voters,  and  power  began  to  shift  from  the  sparsely  settled  north- 
ern and  central  Chadian  regions  toward  the  more  densely  popu- 
lated south.  The  PPT  had  become  less  militant,  winning  the  support 
of  chiefs  in  the  south  and  members  of  the  French  colonial  adminis- 
tration, but  not  that  of  private  French  commercial  interests.  The 
PPT  and  allied  parties  won  forty-seven  of  the  sixty-five  seats  in 
the  1957  elections,  and  Lisette  formed  the  first  African  government 
in  Chad.  He  maintained  a  majority  for  only  about  a  year,  however, 
before  factions  representing  traditional  chiefs  withdrew  their  sup- 
port from  his  coalition  government. 

In  September  1958,  voters  in  all  of  Africa's  French  territories 
took  part  in  a  referendum  on  the  Fifth  Republic's  constitution, 
drawn  up  under  de  Gaulle.  For  a  variety  of  political  and  economic 
reasons,  most  of  Chad's  political  groups  supported  the  new  con- 
stitution, and  all  voted  for  a  resolution  calling  for  Chad  to  become 
an  autonomous  republic  within  the  French  community.  The  three 
other  AEF  territories  voted  similarly,  and  in  November  1958  the 
AEF  was  officially  terminated.  Coordination  on  such  issues  as  cus- 
toms and  currency  continued  among  the  four  territories  through 
written  agreements  or  on  an  ad  hoc  basis.  Nonetheless,  some 
Chadians  supported  the  creation  of  an  even  stronger  French  federa- 
tion, rather  than  independence.  The  leading  proponent  of  this 
proposal  was  Barthelemy  Boganda  of  Ubangi-Chari,  but  his  death 
in  1959  and  the  vigorous  opposition  of  Gabon  resulted  in  political 
independence  on  a  separate  basis  for  all  four  republics. 

After  Lisette 's  coalition  crumbled  in  early  1959,  two  other  alli- 
ances governed  briefly.  Then  in  March  the  PPT  returned  to  power, 
this  time  under  the  leadership  of  Tombalbaye,  a  union  leader  and 
representative  from  Moyen-Chari  Prefecture.  Lisette,  whose  power 
was  undermined  because  of  his  non- African  origins,  became  deputy 
prime  minister  in  charge  of  economic  coordination  and  foreign 
affairs.  Tombalbaye  soon  consolidated  enough  political  support 
from  the  south  and  north  to  isolate  the  opposition  into  a  collection 
of  conservative  Muslim  leaders  from  central  Chad.  The  latter  group 
formed  a  political  party  in  January  1960,  but  its  parliamentary 
representation  steadily  dropped  as  Tombalbaye  wooed  individual 
members  to  the  PPT.  By  independence  in  August  1960,  the  PPT 
and  the  south  had  clearly  achieved  dominance,  but  Tombalbaye 's 
political  skills  made  it  possible  for  observers  to  talk  optimistically 
about  the  possibility  of  building  a  broad-based  coalition  of  politi- 
cal forces. 


16 


A  monument  to  Colonel  Jacques  Leclerc,  a  French  war  hero,  and 

Emil  Gentil,  founder  of  Fort-Lamy 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

Tombalbaye  Era,  1960-75 

Tombalbaye  faced  a  task  of  considerable  magnitude  when  Chad 
became  a  sovereign  state.  His  challenge  was  to  build  a  nation  out 
of  a  vast  and  diverse  territory  that  had  poor  communications,  few 
known  resources,  a  tiny  market,  and  a  collection  of  impoverished 
people  with  sharply  differing  political  traditions,  ethnic  and  regional 
loyalties,  and  sociocultural  patterns.  The  colonial  powers  that  had 
created  the  country's  boundaries  had  done  little  to  promote  eco- 
nomic interdependence,  political  cooperation,  or  cross-cultural 
understanding.  Chadians  who  had  hoped  that  the  country's  first 
president  might  turn  out  to  be  a  state  builder  like  the  thirteenth 
century's  Dabbalemi  or  the  sixteenth  century's  Aluma  were  soon 
disappointed.  During  its  first  fifteen  years,  Chad  under  Tombal- 
baye experienced  worsening  economic  conditions,  eventual  aliena- 
tion of  the  most  patient  of  foreign  allies,  exacerbation  of  ethnic  and 
regional  conflict,  and  grave  weakening  of  the  state  as  an  instrument 
of  governance. 

Tombalbaye's  Governance:  Policies  and  Methods 

At  the  outset,  Tombalbaye  demonstrated  an  autocratic  style  along 
with  a  distrust  of  the  institutions  of  democracy.  One  week  before 


17 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


the  country  gained  independence,  Tombalbaye  purged  Lisette  from 
his  own  party,  declared  Lisette  a  noncitizen  while  he  was  travel- 
ing abroad,  and  barred  him  from  returning  to  Chad.  This  "coup 
by  telegram"  was  the  first  in  an  extensive  series  of  Tombalbaye 's 
increasingly  authoritarian  actions  to  eliminate  or  neutralize 
opponents. 

To  increase  his  power  and  freedom  of  action,  Tombalbaye 
declared  a  ban  on  all  political  parties  except  the  PPT  in  January 
1962,  and  in  April  he  established  a  presidential  form  of  govern- 
ment. When  serious  rioting  occurred  in  1963  in  N'Djamena  and 
Am  Timan,  the  government  declared  a  state  of  emergency  and  dis- 
solved the  National  Assembly.  And,  as  part  of  a  major  campaign 
against  real  and  imagined  political  opponents,  Tombalbaye  cre- 
ated a  special  criminal  court.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  the  country's 
prisons  contained  a  virtual  "who's  who"  of  Chadian  politicians. 
In  June  1964,  a  new  National  Assembly  granted  Tombalbaye  com- 
plete control  over  all  appointments  to  the  Political  Bureau  of  the 
PPT,  which  by  then  was  the  sole  source  of  political  authority.  With 
the  PPT,  government,  and  upper  echelons  of  the  civil  service 
stocked  with  loyalists,  and  with  opposition  leaders  in  prison,  exile, 
or  completely  co-opted,  Tombalbaye  was  in  full  command  of  the 
country. 

An  effort  to  Africanize  the  civil  service  and  security  forces  as 
rapidly  as  possible  complemented  Tombalbaye 's  drive  for  personal 
power.  Between  1960  and  1963,  the  number  of  French  officials  in 
the  central  government  administration  declined  from  ninety-five 
to  thirty  (although  the  total  number  of  French  personnel  increased 
as  technical  advisers  were  hired  for  development  programs),  and 
by  the  end  of  1962  the  entire  territorial  administrative  structure 
was  in  Chadian  hands.  In  addition,  units  of  Chad's  national 
army  replaced  French  military  forces  in  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti 
Prefecture  and  in  Abeche,  a  process  formally  completed  on  Janu- 
ary 23,  1965. 

Africanization  was  not  entirely  popular  among  Chad's  farmers 
and  herders,  despite  their  deep  resentment  of  French  colonial  rule. 
A  decline  in  the  quality  of  government  service  was  immediately 
apparent,  in  part  because  of  the  usual  difficulties  of  transition,  but 
also  because  many  of  the  newly  hired  and  promoted  Chadians  were 
less  experienced  and  less  adequately  trained  than  their  departing 
French  counterparts.  Increasing  the  discontent,  Tombalbaye 
imposed  an  additional  tax  in  1964,  under  the  euphemism  of  a 
"national  loan."  On  top  of  that  action,  some  government  adminis- 
trators were  allegedly  forcing  citizens  in  rural  areas  to  make  pay- 
ments at  three  times  the  official  taxation  rates.  Reports  of  corruption 


18 


Historical  Setting 


and  other  abuses  of  authority  grew  as  Chad's  new  officials  became 
aware  of  both  the  increased  pressures  and  the  decreased  constraints 
on  public  servants. 

Because  the  great  majority  of  the  country's  Western-educated 
and  French-speaking  citizens  were  southerners,  the  policy  of  Afri- 
canization often  represented  a  "southernization"  of  the  Chadian 
government.  What  appeared  to  some  Western  observers  to  be 
progress  in  African  self-government  was  perceived  by  those  from 
the  northern  and  central  areas  to  be  an  increasingly  blatant  sei- 
zure of  power  by  southerners.  To  many  in  northern  and  central 
Chad,  the  southern  Chadians  were  simply  another  set  of  foreign- 
ers, almost  as  alien  and  arrogant  as  the  departing  French.  Tom- 
balbaye's  failure  to  establish  hiring  and  training  policies  geared 
to  achieving  greater  ethnic  and  regional  balance  in  public  adminis- 
tration was  one  of  his  most  serious  shortcomings.  Another  was  his 
lack  of  success — or  lack  of  interest — in  reaching  power-sharing 
agreements  with  key  leaders  in  the  Saharan  and  sahelian  regions. 

Dissatisfaction  with  these  failures  was  expressed  violently,  and 
the  government  response  was  just  as  violent.  When  Muslims  rioted 
in  N'Djamena  in  September  1963  following  the  arbitrary  arrests 
of  three  Muslim  leaders,  the  government  reacted  swifdy  and  repres- 
sively.  A  little  more  than  a  year  later,  an  altercation  at  a  public 
dance  in  the  northern  town  of  Bardai  prompted  a  Sara  deputy 
prefect  to  order  the  inhabitants  of  an  entire  village  to  march  to 
prison,  where  many  were  stripped  and  all  were  insulted.  Many  were 
arbitrarily  fined  for  such  offenses  as  wearing  beards  or  turbans. 
Included  among  the  targets  of  abuse  was  Oueddei  Kichidemi,  the 
derde,  or  spiritual  head,  of  the  Teda  people,  a  Toubou  group. 
Explosive  confrontations  such  as  this  occurred  repeatedly  as  the 
inexperienced  southerners,  who  understood  litde  and  cared  less  for 
the  customs  of  the  peoples  they  governed,  replaced  experienced 
French  administrators. 

By  this  time,  just  five  years  after  independence,  the  possibility 
of  armed  conflict  was  growing.  Politicians  throughout  Chad 
increasingly  used  traditional  loyalties  and  enmities  to  decry  oppo- 
sition and  solidify  popular  support  for  their  positions.  In  view  of 
Chad's  historical  legacy  of  conflict,  some  historians  have  argued 
that  even  the  most  competent  leader  with  the  most  enlightened  set 
of  policies  would  have  eventually  faced  secessionist  movements  or 
armed  opposition.  Tombalbaye,  however,  hastened  the  onset  of 
civil  conflict  by  quickly  squandering  his  legitimacy  through  repres- 
sive tactics  and  regional  favoritism. 


19 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Rebellion  in  Eastern  and  Northern  Chad 

On  November  1,  1965,  frustration  with  what  was  perceived  as 
government  mismanagement  and  tax  collection  abuses  erupted  in 
riots  in  the  town  of  Mangalme  in  Guera  Prefecture.  Five  hundred 
persons  died,  including  the  local  deputy  to  the  National  Assembly 
and  nine  other  government  officials.  From  Mangalme  and  nearby 
Batha  Prefecture,  the  rebellion  spread  to  Ouaddai  and  Salamat 
prefectures,  where  in  February  1967  the  prefect  and  deputy  prefect 
were  killed.  In  August  1968,  a  major  mutiny  in  Aozou  among  the 
Toubou-dominated  National  and  Nomad  Guard  highlighted  the 
continuing  unrest  in  the  north  (see  Origins  and  Early  Develop- 
ment, ch.  5).  In  the  same  year,  antigovernment  activities  and  tracts 
began  to  appear  in  Chari-Baguirmi  Prefecture,  only  about  100 
kilometers  from  N'Djamena.  Travel  became  unsafe  in  much  of  cen- 
tral Chad,  . and  governmental  authority  in  the  north  was  reduced 
by  1969  to  the  garrison  towns  of  Faya  Largeau,  Fada,  Bardai,  and 
Ounianga  Kebir. 

In  addition  to  historical  causes  and  what  Tombalbaye  himself 
was  later  to  call  *  'maladministration,"  the  country's  Arabic- 
speaking  neighbors  abetted  rebellion  in  the  northern  and  central 
regions  of  Chad.  In  Sudan  and  Libya,  numerous  self-styled  "libera- 
tion fronts"  appeared  in  the  mid-1960s,  printing  manifestos  and 
claiming  leadership  over  rebellious  groups  inside  Chad.  The  most 
prominent  of  these  fronts,  the  National  Liberation  Front  of  Chad 
(Front  de  Liberation  Nationale  du  Tchad — FROLINAT),  was 
formed  in  June  1966  in  Nyala  in  southwestern  Sudan.  Personality, 
philosophical,  and  ethnic  differences  soon  led  to  the  front's  frag- 
mentation, with  one  group  moving  to  Khartoum  and  another, 
which  retained  the  FROLINAT  designation,  establishing  offices 
in  Algiers  and  Tripoli. 

The  influence  of  external  assistance  to  the  rebels  during  this 
period  was  minimal.  Prior  to  1976,  Chad's  uprisings  were  disor- 
ganized and  uncoordinated  among  dissident  groups.  Most  observers 
attribute  the  rebels'  success  more  to  the  ineptitude  of  Chad's  govern- 
ment and  national  army  than  to  outside  assistance. 

After  FROLINAT' s  eastern  region  field  commander,  Ibrahim 
Abatcha,  died  in  combat  in  February  1968,  four  contenders  for 
leadership  emerged.  Within  two  years,  two  of  them  reportedly  had 
been  assassinated  and  one  had  fled  to  Sudan;  the  fourth,  Abba  Sid- 
dick,  became  FROLINAT' s  new  secretary  general  in  1970.  But 
in  1971,  when  Siddick  called  for  greater  cooperation  among  vari- 
ous groups  under  the  FROLINAT  banner,  he  encountered  vigorous 
opposition  in  the  north  from  Goukouni  Oueddei,  son  of  Oueddei 


20 


Historical  Setting 


Kichidemi,  and  Hissein  Habre,  one  of  the  leaders  of  the  Armed 
Forces  of  the  North  (Forces  Armees  du  Nord — FAN).  Goukouni 
and  Habre  broke  with  Siddick,  who  managed  to  retain  only  nominal 
control  over  FROLINAT's  First  Liberation  Army  in  east-central 
Chad  (see  Appendix  B). 

Tombalbaye's  initial  response  to  the  increasing  antigovernment 
activities  was  to  attempt  to  crush  them.  When  the  government's 
forces  proved  woefully  inadequate  for  the  task,  Tombalbaye  swal- 
lowed his  pride  and  called  in  the  French  under  provisions  of  mili- 
tary treaties  signed  in  1960. 

Confronted  by  the  unpopularity  of  such  a  step,  the  French 
government  joined  many  Chadian  intellectuals  in  calling  for  a  broad 
range  of  economic  and  political  reforms  by  Chad's  government. 
Desperate  for  French  assistance,  Tombalbaye  reluctantly  accepted 
the  thirty-three  member  Administrative  Reform  Mission  (Mission 
de  Reforme  Administrative — MRA),  which  arrived  in  1969  with 
authority  to  retrain  the  army,  reorganize  the  civil  service,  and 
recommend  the  abolition  of  unpopular  laws  and  taxes.  The  most 
significant  political  reform  was  the  full  restoration  to  Chad's  major 
sultans  of  their  previous  judicial  authority.  The  government  also 
allowed  them  to  resume  their  function  as  tax  collectors  in  exchange 
for  10  percent  of  the  revenue.  This  action,  which  Tombalbaye 
implemented  grudgingly,  temporarily  undermined  rebel  activities 
across  central  Chad. 

Liberalization  continued  in  the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s.  Fol- 
lowing the  1969  presidential  elections,  in  which  Tombalbaye  ran 
unopposed,  some  600  political  prisoners  were  released,  including 
a  number  of  prominent  Muslims.  In  April  1971,  Tombalbaye, 
addressing  the  Seventh  Congress  of  the  PPT,  admitted  for  the  first 
time  that  he  had  made  mistakes  and  that  there  were  some  short- 
comings associated  with  his  policies.  He  promised  a  campaign  of 
national  reconciliation,  and  a  few  weeks  later  he  formed  a  govern- 
ment that  included  a  greater  proportion  of  Muslims  and  north- 
erners. In  June  Tombalbaye  freed  another  1,500  political  prisoners 
and  toured  rebel  regions  in  the  north,  where  he  promised,  among 
other  things,  government-subsidized  salt  and  sugar  for  the  nomads 
of  Zouar  and  Bardai. 

These  reforms  and  French  assistance  contributed  to  the  relative 
calm  of  1970  and  1971.  French  military  forces  provided  extensive 
and  effective  assistance  in  containing  rebellious  activities  in  cen- 
tral Chad.  By  June  1971 ,  overt  rebellion  had  been  reduced  for  the 
most  part  to  isolated  pockets  in  the  Tibesti  region.  The  French 
government,  under  domestic  pressure,  began  to  withdraw  its  forces 
from  Chad. 


21 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Fall  of  the  Tombalbaye  Government 

Tombalbaye's  reform  efforts  ceased  abruptly  in  August  1971. 
In  that  month,  he  claimed  to  have  quashed  a  coup  involving  some 
recently  amnestied  Chadians  who  allegedly  received  support  from 
Libyan  leader  Muammar  al  Qadhafi.  Tombalbaye  severed  rela- 
tions with  Libya  and  invited  anti-Qadhafi  elements  to  establish  bases 
in  Chad.  In  retaliation,  Qadhafi  recognized  FROLINAT,  offered 
(for  the  first  time  formally)  an  operational  base  in  Tripoli  to  Sid- 
dick,  and  increased  the  flow  of  supplies  to  the  Chadian  rebels. 

Domestic  calm  deteriorated  further  when  students  conducted  a 
strike  in  N'Djamena  in  November  1971 .  Although  easily  contained, 
the  strike  demonstrated  the  growing  politicization  and  disaffection 
of  young  members  of  the  southern  elite  and  reflected  their  increased 
awareness  of  the  army's  political  potential.  Tombalbaye  then 
replaced  the  chief  of  staff,  General  Jacques  Doumro,  who  was  a 
favorite  of  the  students,  with  Colonel  Felix  Malloum. 

In  June  1972,  a  band  of  Libyan-trained  saboteurs  was  captured 
while  attempting  to  smuggle  guns  and  explosives  into  the  capital. 
These  arrests  coincided  with  a  serious  financial  crisis,  a  worsening 
drought,  bitter  government  infighting,  and  civil  unrest  in  the  capi- 
tal. These  events  convinced  Tombalbaye  to  abandon  his  policy  of 
national  reconciliation.  He  incarcerated  more  than  1 ,000  real  or 
suspected  *  'enemies  of  the  state."  In  an  indication  of  his  growing 
distrust  of  the  previously  secure  south,  Tombalbaye  detained 
hundreds  of  southerners  and  removed  two  key  southern  cabinet 
ministers.  He  also  effected  a  dramatic  diplomatic  about-face 
designed  to  obtain  economic  assistance  from  the  Arab  world  while 
undermining  FROLINAT.  To  enhance  ties  to  the  Arab  world, 
Tombalbaye  broke  Chad's  relations  with  Israel  in  September 
1972.  A  few  months  later,  Tombalbaye  secured  an  initial  pledge 
of  CFA  F23  billion  (for  value  of  the  CFA  franc — see  Glossary)  from 
Libya.  In  1973  other  Arab  capitals  promised  aid.  In  addition,  Chad 
withdrew  from  the  Afro-Malagasy  and  Mauritian  Common  Organi- 
zation (Organisation  Commune  Africaine,  Malgache,  et  Mauri- 
cienne — OCAMM)  a  moderate  alliance  of  French-speaking  African 
states. 

Tombalbaye's  strategy  to  create  difficulties  for  FROLINAT  was 
successful.  When  Qadhafi  began  restricting  deliveries  of  military 
supplies  and  food  to  the  rebels,  fighting  for  the  limited  supplies 
erupted  between  FROLINAT' s  First  Liberation  Army  and  FAN 
(at  that  time  also  called  the  Second  Liberation  Army).  The  Second 
Liberation  Army  lost  control  of  Ennedi  and  retreated  into  north- 
ern Borkou  and  Tibesti.  In  April  1974,  however,  it  struck  back 


22 


Historical  Setting 


by  seizing  three  European  hostages,  including  a  French  archaeol- 
ogist at  Bardai. 

By  this  time,  the  Tombalbaye  presidency  was  rapidly  unravel- 
ing, as  greater  attention  focused  on  the  real  and  suspected  threats 
from  within  the  government.  In  June  1973,  Tombalbaye  arrested 
Malloum,  the  head  of  the  women's  wing  of  the  PPT,  and  a  score 
of  other  party  officials,  mostly  from  the  south.  These  individuals 
were  held  on  charges  of  " political  sorcery"  in  what  came  to  be 
known  as  the  "Black  Sheep  Plot"  because  of  their  alleged  involve- 
ment in  animal  sacrifices.  Moreover,  when  Outel  Bono,  a  widely 
admired  liberal  politician,  was  assassinated  in  Paris  while  organizing 
a  new  political  party  in  August,  many  believed  that  Tombalbaye' s 
government  was  behind  the  murder.  Also  that  month,  Tombal- 
baye decided  to  replace  the  PPT  with  a  new  party,  the  National 
Movement  for  the  Cultural  and  Social  Revolution  (Mouvement 
National  pour  la  Revolution  Culturelle  et  Sociale — MNRCS). 

To  deflect  domestic  criticism,  Tombalbaye  embarked  on  a  cam- 
paign to  promote  authenticite,  or  "Chaditude."  This  effort  was  aimed 
at  expunging  foreign  practices  and  influences.  To  shore  up  his  sup- 
port from  Chad's  expanding  urban  elite,  Tombalbaye  Africanized 
the  names  of  several  places  (Fort-Lamy  and  Fort-Archambault 
became  N'Djamena  and  Sarh,  respectively)  and  ordered  civil  ser- 
vants to  use  indigenous  names  in  place  of  their  European  ones; 
he  changed  his  first  name  to  Ngarta.  In  addition,  his  policies 
induced  many  foreign  missionaries  to  repatriate.  His  strident  attacks 
on  the  French  government  were  also  popular.  Tombalbaye  lashed 
out  specifically  at  Jacques  Foccart,  the  powerful  secretary  general 
to  the  French  Presidency  for  African  Affairs,  who  was  labeled  an 
"evil  genius"  and  formally  condemned  in  a  National  Assembly 
resolution  as  the  source  of  some  "fourteen  plots"  against  the  govern- 
ment of  Chad. 

To  restore  his  sagging  support  among  Sara  traditionalists  in  the 
rural  south,  Tombalbaye  came  out  in  favor  of  the  harsh  physical 
and  psychological^^  initiation  rites  for  all  southern  males  between 
sixteen  and  fifty,  making  them  compulsory  for  any  non-Muslim 
seeking  admission  to  the  civil  service,  government,  and  higher  ranks 
of  the  military  (see  Classical  African  Religions,  ch.  2).  From 
mid- 1973  to  April  1974,  an  estimated  3,000  southern  civil  servants, 
including  two  cabinet  ministers  and  one  colonel,  went  through  the 
yondo  ordeal.  Because  the  rites  were  perceived  as  anti-Christian  and 
essentially  borrowed  from  one  Sara  subgroup,  resistance  to  the 
process  exacerbated  antagonisms  along  clan  and  religious  lines. 
Therefore,  rather  than  encouraging  greater  southern  support, 


23 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Tombalbaye's  action  created  disaffection  among  civil  servants,  army 
officers,  and  students. 

The  worsening  drought  in  the  early  1970s  also  affected  Chad's 
degenerating  political  situation.  Throughout  1974  international 
criticism  of  Chad's  handling  of  drought-relief  efforts  reached  a  new 
peak,  as  government  insensitivity  and  overt  profiteering  became 
obvious. 

In  response  to  its  economic  crisis,  the  government  launched 
Operation  Agriculture,  which  involved  a  massive  volunteer  cotton- 
planting  effort  on  virgin  lands.  The  project  increased  production 
somewhat,  but  at  the  expense  of  major  economic  dislocations  and 
greater  southern  resentment,  particularly  from  people  in  cities  and 
towns  who  were  rounded  up  by  the  military  to  ''volunteer"  for 
agricultural  labor. 

By  early  1975,  many  observers  believed  that  Tombalbaye  had 
eroded  his  two  main  bases  of  support — the  south  and  the  armed 
forces.  Only  intra- Sara  divisions  and  concern  over  the  possible  loss 
of  southern  influence  in  government  had  prevented  any  well- 
organized  anti-Tombalbaye  movement.  In  addition,  throughout 
the  early  1970s  Tombalbaye's  criticism  of  the  army's  mediocre  per- 
formance in  the  field  had  angered  the  officer  corps  and  dissipated 
its  loyalty.  Other  military  grievances  included  frequent  purges  and 
reshufflings  of  the  top  ranks.  In  March  1975,  Tombalbaye  ordered 
the  arrest  of  several  senior  military  officers  as  suspects  in  yet  another 
plot.  On  April  13,  1975,  several  units  of  N'Djamena's  gendarmerie, 
acting  under  the  initial  direction  of  junior  military  officers,  killed 
Tombalbaye  during  a  mutiny. 

Civil  War  and  Northern  Dominance,  1975-82 
Malloum's  Military  Government,  1975-78 

The  coup  d'etat  that  terminated  Tombalbaye's  government 
received  an  enthusiastic  response  in  N'Djamena.  Malloum  emerged 
as  the  chairman  of  the  new  Supreme  Military  Council  (Conseil 
Superieur  Militaire — CSM).  His  government  contained  more  Mus- 
lims from  northern  and  eastern  Chad,  but  ethnic  and  regional 
dominance  still  remained  very  much  in  the  hands  of  southerners. 
The  successor  government  soon  overturned  many  of  Tombalbaye's 
more  odious  policies.  For  example,  the  CSM  attempted  to  distribute 
external  drought-relief  assistance  more  equitably  and  efficiendy  and 
devised  plans  to  develop  numerous  economic  reforms,  including 
reductions  in  taxes  and  government  expenditures. 

Neither  reformers  nor  skilled  administrators,  the  new  military 
leaders  were  unable  to  retain  for  long  the  modicum  of  authority, 


24 


President  Tombalbaye  marching  in  a  parade  celebrating  the  tenth 

anniversary  of  independence 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 
Fountain  in  Sultan  Kasser  Plaza  in  N'Djamena 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 


25 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

legitimacy,  and  popularity  that  they  had  gained  through  their  over- 
throw of  the  unpopular  Tombalbaye.  The  expectations  of  most 
urban  Chadians  far  exceeded  the  capacity  of  the  new  government — 
or  possibly  any  government — to  satisfy  them.  It  soon  became  clear, 
moreover,  that  the  new  leaders  (mostly  southern  military  officers) 
saw  themselves  as  caretakers  rather  than  innovators,  and  few  of 
Tombalbaye' s  close  associates  were  punished.  Throughout  its 
tenure,  the  CSM  was  unable  to  win  the  support  of  the  capital's 
increasingly  radicalized  unions,  students,  and  urban  dwellers.  The 
government  suspended  the  National  Union  of  Chadian  Workers 
(Union  Nationale  de  Travailleurs  du  Tchad — UNTT)  and  pro- 
hibited strikes,  but  labor  and  urban  unrest  continued  from  1975 
through  1978.  On  the  first  anniversary  of  the  formation  of  the  CSM, 
Malloum  was  the  target  of  a  grenade  attack  that  injured  several 
top  officials  and  spectators.  A  year  after  that,  in  March  1977,  the 
CSM  executed  summarily  the  leaders  of  a  short-lived  mutiny  by 
several  military  units  in  N'Djamena. 

The  fundamental  failures  of  Malloum' s  government,  however, 
were  most  evident  in  its  interactions  with  France,  Libya,  and 
FROLINAT.  In  his  first  few  months  in  office,  Malloum  persuaded 
a  few  eastern  rebel  elements  to  join  the  new  government.  In  the 
north,  the  derde  (Oueddei  Kichidemi)  returned  from  exile  in  Libya 
in  August  1975.  But  his  son,  Goukouni  Oueddei,  refused  to  respond 
to  his  entreaties  or  those  of  the  government  and  remained  in  opposi- 
tion. When  the  Command  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the 
North  (Conseil  de  Commandement  des  Forces  Armees  du  Nord — 
CCFAN),  a  structure  set  up  in  1972  by  Habre  and  Goukouni  to 
represent  northern  elements  in  FROLINAT,  continued  to  refuse 
negotiations  with  the  CSM  over  the  release  of  the  hostage  French 
archaeologist,  France  began  dealing  directly  with  the  rebels.  Mal- 
loum's  government  reacted  to  this  embarrassment  by  demanding 
the  departure  of  1,500  French  troops,  at  a  time  in  late  1975  when 
Chad's  military  situation  was  beginning  to  worsen.  Throughout 
1976  and  1977,  the  military  balance  of  power  shifted  in  favor  of 
FROLINAT  as  Libya  provided  the  rebels  with  substantially  more 
weaponry  and  logistical  support  than  ever  before.  Faya  Largeau 
was  placed  under  siege  twice  in  1976,  and  then  in  June  1977  Bardai 
fell  to  the  CCFAN. 

The  sharp  increase  in  Libyan  activity  also  brought  to  a  head  the 
power  struggle  within  the  CCFAN  between  Goukouni  and  Habre. 
In  1971  Habre  had  left  his  position  as  a  deputy  prefect  in  the  Tom- 
balbaye government  to  join  Goukouni 's  rebels.  Goukouni  and 
Habre,  ambitious  Toubou  leaders  from  two  different  and  competing 
clans,  became  bitter  rivals,  first  within  the  CCFAN  and  later 


26 


Historical  Setting 


within  all  of  Chad.  In  the  CCFAN,  the  key  issues  dividing  the  men 
were  relations  with  Libya  and  the  handling  of  the  hostage  affair. 
Habre  opposed  vigorously  all  Libyan  designs  on  the  Aozou  Strip 
and  favored  retaining  the  French  hostage  even  after  most  of  the 
ransom  demands  had  been  met.  Goukouni  felt  that  priority  should 
go  to  the  conflict  with  the  CSM,  for  which  Libyan  assistance  could 
be  decisive,  and  that  the  kidnapping  had  already  achieved  more 
than  enough.  Habre  finally  split  with  him  in  1976,  taking  a  few 
hundred  followers  to  fight  in  Batha  and  Biltine  prefectures  and 
retaining  for  his  group  the  name  FAN  (see  Appendix  B).  Goukouni 
and  his  followers  prevailed  (the  CCFAN  released  the  hostage  to 
French  authorities  in  January  1977). 

As  the  military  position  of  the  CSM  continued  to  decline  in  1977, 
Malloum's  political  overtures  to  the  rebel  groups  and  leaders 
became  increasingly  flexible.  In  September  Malloum  and  Habre 
met  in  Khartoum  to  begin  negotiations  on  a  formal  alliance.  Their 
efforts  culminated  in  a  carefully  drafted  agreement,  the  Fundamen- 
tal Charter,  which  formed  the  basis  of  the  National  Union  Govern- 
ment of  August  1978.  Malloum  was  named  president  of  the  new 
government,  while  Habre,  as  prime  minister,  became  the  first  sig- 
nificant insurgent  figure  to  hold  an  executive  position  in  a  post- 
colonial  government. 

Habre's  ascension  to  power  in  N'Djamena  was  intended  to  sig- 
nal to  Goukouni  and  other  rebel  leaders  the  government's  willing- 
ness to  negotiate  seriously  following  its  reversals  on  the  battlefield 
in  1978.  In  February  Faya  Largeau  fell  to  FROLINAT,  and  with 
it  roughly  half  the  country's  territory.  Shordy  thereafter,  Malloum 
flew  to  Sabha  in  southern  Libya  to  negotiate  a  cease-fire,  but  even 
as  it  was  being  codified  in  March,  FROLINAT 's  position  was 
hardening.  Goukouni  claimed  that  all  three  liberation  armies  were 
now  united  under  his  leadership  in  the  new  People's  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Populaires — FAP)  and  that  their  objective  remained 
the  overthrow  of  the  "dictatorial  neocolonial  regime  imposed  by 
France  on  Chad  since  August  1 1 ,  1960. ' '  FAP  continued  to  advance 
toward  the  capital  until  it  was  halted  near  Ati  in  major  battles  with 
French  military  forces  and  units  of  the  Chadian  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes — FAT;  see  Appendix  B).  It  was  Mal- 
loum's hope  that  the  FROLINAT  leadership  would  soften  its  terms, 
or  possibly  undergo  renewed  fragmentation. 

Civil  War  and  Multilateral  Mediation,  1979-82 

From  1979  to  1982,  Chad  experienced  unprecedented  change 
and  spiraling  violence.  Southerners  finally  lost  control  of  what 
remained  of  the  Chadian  government,  while  civil  conflicts  became 


27 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

significantly  more  internationalized.  In  early  1979,  the  fragile 
Malloum- Habre  alliance  collapsed  after  months  of  aggressive  actions 
by  Habre,  including  demands  that  more  northerners  be  appointed 
to  high  government  offices  and  that  Arabic  be  used  in  place  of 
French  in  broadcasting.  Appealing  for  support  among  the  large 
communities  of  Muslims  and  Arabs  in  N'Djamena,  Habre 
unleashed  his  FAN  on  February  12.  With  the  French  garrison 
remaining  uninvolved,  FAN  sent  Malloum  into  retirement  (under 
French  protection)  and  drove  the  remnants  of  FAT  toward  the 
south.  On  February  22,  Goukouni  and  FAP  entered  the  capital. 
By  this  time,  most  of  the  city's  Sara  population  had  fled  to  the  south, 
where  attacks  against  Muslims  and  nonsoutherners  erupted,  par- 
ticularly in  Sarh,  Moundou,  and  throughout  Moyen-Chari  Prefec- 
ture. By  mid-March  more  than  10,000  were  said  to  have  died  as 
a  result  of  violence  throughout  the  south. 

In  early  1979,  Chad  became  an  open  arena  of  unrestrained  fac- 
tional politics.  Opportunistic  power  seekers  sought  to  gather  fol- 
lowers (often  using  sectarian  appeals)  and  to  win  support  from 
Chad's  African  neighbors.  Between  March  10  and  August  21,  four 
separate  conferences  took  place  in  the  Nigerian  cities  of  Kano  and 
Lagos,  during  which  Chad's  neighbors  attempted  to  establish  a 
political  framework  acceptable  to  the  warring  factions.  Chad's 
neighbors,  however,  also  used  the  meetings  to  pursue  interests  of 
their  own,  resulting  in  numerous  externally  generated  complications 
and  a  growing  number  of  factions  brought  into  the  process.  For 
example,  at  one  point,  Qadhafl  became  so  angry  with  Habre  that 
the  Libyan  sent  arms  to  Colonel  Wadel  Abdelkader  Kamougue's 
anti-Habre  faction  in  the  south,  even  though  Kamougue  was  also 
anti- Libyan.  At  the  second  conference  in  Kano,  both  Habre  and 
Goukouni  were  placed  under  what  amounted  to  house  arrest  so 
Nigeria  could  promote  the  chances  of  a  Kanembu  leader,  Mahmat 
Shawa  Lol.  In  fact,  Nigerian  support  made  Lol  the  Chadian  titular 
head  of  state  for  a  few  weeks,  even  though  his  Third  Liberation 
Army  was  only  a  phantom  force,  and  his  domestic  political  sup- 
port was  insignificant.  Within  Chad  the  warring  parties  used  the 
conferences  and  their  associated  truces  to  recover  from  one  round 
of  fighting  and  prepare  for  the  next. 

The  final  conference  culminated  in  the  Lagos  Accord  of  August 
21,  1979,  which  representatives  of  eleven  Chadian  factions  signed 
and  the  foreign  ministers  of  nine  other  African  states  witnessed. 
The  Lagos  Accord  established  the  procedures  for  setting  up  the 
Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity  (Gouvernement 
d' Union  Nationale  de  Transition — GUNT),  which  was  sworn  into 
office  in  November.  By  mutual  agreement,  Goukouni  was  named 


28 


Historical  Setting 


president,  Kamougue  was  appointed  vice-president,  and  Habre  was 
named  minister  of  national  defense,  veterans,  and  war  victims.  The 
distribution  of  cabinet  positions  was  balanced  between  south  (eleven 
portfolios),  north,  center,  and  east  (thirteen),  and  among  proteges 
of  neighboring  states.  A  peacekeeping  mission  of  the  Organiza- 
tion of  African  Unity  (OAU),  to  be  drawn  from  troops  from  Congo, 
Guinea,  and  Benin,  was  to  replace  the  French.  This  force  never 
materialized  in  any  effective  sense,  but  the  OAU  was  committed 
to  GUNT  under  the  presidency  of  Goukouni. 

GUNT,  however,  failed.  Its  major  participants  deeply  mistrusted 
each  other,  and  they  never  achieved  a  sense  of  coherence.  As  a 
result,  the  various  factional  militias  remained  armed.  By  January 
1980,  a  unit  of  Habre' s  army  was  attacking  the  forces  of  one  of 
the  constituent  groups  of  GUNT  in  Ouaddai  Prefecture.  Shortly 
thereafter,  N'Djamena  plunged  into  another  cycle  of  violence,  and 
by  the  end  of  March  1980  Habre  was  openly  defying  the  govern- 
ment, having  taken  control  of  a  section  of  the  capital.  The  600  Con- 
golese troops  of  the  OAU  peacekeeping  force  remained  out  of  the 
fray,  as  did  the  French,  while  units  of  five  separate  Chadian  armies 
prowled  the  streets  of  N'Djamena.  The  battles  continued  through- 
out the  summer,  punctuated  by  more  OAU  mediation  efforts  and 
five  formal  cease-fires. 

It  became  evident  that  the  profound  rivalry  between  Goukouni 
and  Habre  was  at  the  core  of  the  conflict.  By  mid- 1980  the  south — 
cut  off  from  communication  and  trade  with  N'Djamena  and 
defended  by  a  regrouped,  southern  army — had  become  a  state 
within  a  state.  Colonel  Kamougue,  the  strongman  of  the  south, 
remained  a  prudent  distance  away  from  the  capital  and  waited  to 
negotiate  with  whichever  northerner  emerged  as  the  winner. 

In  1980  the  beleaguered  Goukouni  turned  to  Libya,  much  as 
he  had  done  four  years  earlier.  With  the  French  forces  having 
departed  in  mid-May  1980,  Goukouni  signed  a  military  coopera- 
tion treaty  with  Libya  in  June  (without  prior  approval  of  the  all- 
but-defunct  GUNT).  In  October  he  requested  direct  military 
assistance  from  Qadhafi,  and  by  December  Libyan  forces  had  firm 
control  of  the  capital  and  most  other  urban  centers  outside  the  south. 
Habre  fled  to  Sudan,  vowing  to  resume  the  struggle. 

Although  Libyan  intervention  enabled  Goukouni  to  win  mili- 
tarily, the  association  with  Qadhafi  created  diplomatic  problems 
for  GUNT.  In  January  1981,  when  Goukouni  and  Qadhafi  issued 
a  joint  communique  stating  that  Chad  and  Libya  had  agreed  to 
"work  for  the  realization  of  complete  unity  between  the  two  coun- 
tries," an  international  uproar  ensued.  Although  both  leaders  later 


29 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

denied  any  intention  to  merge  their  states  politically,  the  diplomatic 
damage  had  been  done. 

Throughout  1981  most  of  the  members  of  the  OAU,  along  with 
France  and  the  United  States,  encouraged  Libyan  troops  to  with- 
draw from  Chad.  One  week  after  the  "unity  communique,"  the 
OAU's  committee  on  Chad  met  in  Togo  to  assess  the  situation. 
In  a  surprisingly  blunt  resolution,  the  twelve  states  on  the  com- 
mittee denounced  the  union  goal  as  a  violation  of  the  1979  Lagos 
Accord,  called  for  Libya  to  withdraw  its  troops,  and  promised  to 
provide  a  peacekeeping  unit,  the  Inter- African  Force  (IAF). 
Goukouni  was  skeptical  of  OAU  promises,  but  in  September  he 
received  a  French  pledge  of  support  for  his  government  and  the  IAF. 

But  as  Goukouni 's  relations  with  the  OAU  and  France  improved, 
his  ties  with  Libya  deteriorated.  One  reason  for  this  deterioration 
was  that  the  economic  assistance  that  Libya  had  promised  never 
materialized.  Another,  and  perhaps  more  significant,  factor  was 
that  Qadhafi  was  strongly  suspected  of  helping  Goukouni' s  rival 
within  GUNT,  Acyl  Ahmat,  leader  of  the  Democratic  Revolution- 
ary Council  (Conseil  Democratique  Revolutionnaire — CDR).  Both 
Habre  and  Goukouni  feared  Acyl  because  he  and  many  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  CDR  were  Arabs  of  the  Awlad  Sulayman  tribe.  About 
150  years  earlier,  this  group  had  migrated  from  Libya  to  Chad  and 
thus  represented  the  historical  and  cultural  basis  of  Libyan  claims 
in  Chad  (see  Languages  and  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2). 

As  a  consequence  of  the  Libya-Chad  rift,  Goukouni  asked  the 
Libyan  forces  in  late  October  1981  to  leave,  and  by  mid-November 
they  had  complied.  Their  departure,  however,  allowed  Habre' s 
FAN — reconstituted  in  eastern  Chad  with  Egyptian,  Sudanese,  and, 
reportedly,  significant  United  States  assistance — to  win  key  posi- 
tions along  the  highway  from  Abeche  to  N'Djamena.  Habre  was 
restrained  only  by  the  arrival  and  deployment  in  December  1981 
of  some  4,800  IAF  troops  from  Nigeria,  Senegal,  and  Zaire. 

In  February  1982,  a  special  OAU  meeting  in  Nairobi  resulted 
in  a  plan  that  called  for  a  cease-fire,  negotiations  among  all  parties, 
elections,  and  the  departure  of  the  IAF;  all  terms  were  to  be  car- 
ried out  within  six  months.  Habre  accepted  the  plan,  but  Goukouni 
rejected  it,  asserting  that  Habre  had  lost  any  claim  to  legitimacy 
when  he  broke  with  GUNT.  When  Habre  renewed  his  military 
advance  toward  N'Djamena,  the  IAF  remained  essentially  neu- 
tral, just  as  the  French  had  done  when  FROLINAT  marched  on 
Malloum  three  years  earlier.  FAN  secured  control  of  the  capital 
on  June  7.  Goukouni  and  other  members  of  GUNT  fled  to  Cam- 
eroon and  eventually  reappeared  in  Libya.  For  the  remainder  of 
the  year,  Habre  consolidated  his  power  in  much  of  war- weary  Chad 


30 


Historical  Setting 


and  worked  to  secure  international  recognition  for  his  govern- 
ment. 

*    *  * 

Little  research  material  was  available  in  English  on  the  histori- 
cal background  of  Chad  or  the  central  Sudanic  region.  For  earlier 
historical  periods,  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa  offers  a  compre- 
hensive survey,  along  with  maps  and  bibliographic  references.  Prin- 
cipal sources  include  the  contributions  of  Nehemia  Levtzion  in 
Volume  2  of  the  Cambridge  series  and  H.J.  Fisher  in  Volumes 
3  and  4,  as  well  as  African  History  by  Philip  Curtin  and  others,  for 
nineteenth-century  material  in  particular.  The  published  thesis  State 
and  Society  in  Three  Central  Sudanic  Kingdoms  by  Anders  J.  Bjorkelo, 
although  not  widely  available,  contains  extensive  analysis  and 
interpretation.  A  detailed  examination  of  Kanem-Borno  is  presented 
in  Pages  d'histoire  du  Kanem,  by  Jean-Claude  Zeltner. 

Dennis  D.  Cordell's  Dar  al-Kuti  and  the  Last  Years  of  the  Trans - 
Saharan  Slave  Trade,  although  not  specifically  about  Chad,  is 
especially  useful  for  its  regional  perspective  and  its  analysis  of 
nineteenth-century  developments.  Cordell  also  provides  useful  per- 
spectives on  the  culture  of  the  Sara  people. 

No  standard  English  work  on  the  colonial  experience  in  Chad 
is  readily  available,  and  the  most  frequently  cited  French  source, 
Jacques  Le  Cornec's  Histoire  politique  du  Tchad  de  1900  a  1962,  is 
dated.  Brian  Weinstein's  biography  of  Felix  Eboue  surveys  the 
human  dimension  of  the  colonial  era.  Samuel  Decalo's  Historical 
Dictionary  of  Chad  is  also  a  valuable  reference  work. 

Chad's  recent  history  is  analyzed  in  the  works  of  Decalo,  Rene 
Lemarchand,  and  William  J.  Foltz.  Other  important  references 
include  Conflict  in  Chad  by  Virginia  M.  Thompson  and  Richard 
Adloff  and  A  State  in  Disarray,  by  Michael  P.  Kelley.  French  works 
on  recent  history  include  Le  Frolinat  et  les  revokes  populaires  du  Tchad, 
1965-1976  by  Robert  Buijtenhuijs  and  Tchad-Libye:  La  querelle  des 
frontieres  by  Bernard  Lanne.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


31 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


A  bee-hived  shaped  mud  hut,  sometimes  found  in  areas  of  Mayo-Kebbi 
Prefecture 


GEOGRAPHIC  VARIATION,  ETHNIC  and  linguistic  diver- 
sity, and  religious  differences  have  presented  serious  obstacles  to 
nation  building  in  Chad.  A  range  of  environments  has  contributed 
to  the  evolution  of  a  variety  of  life- styles  and  social  structures, 
including  nomadic  societies  in  the  Sahara  Desert  in  the  north,  semi- 
nomadic  (or  semisedentary)  peoples  in  the  Sahel  (see  Glossary)  in 
the  center,  and  agricultural  communities  in  the  soudanian  south. 
With  three  of  Africa's  four  major  language  families  represented 
within  its  borders,  Chad's  peoples  do  not  share  broad  cultural 
characteristics,  as  do,  for  example,  the  Bantu  peoples  of  countries 
in  central,  eastern,  and  southern  Africa.  Religion  also  divides 
Chad's  people  among  followers  of  classical  African  religions,  Islam, 
and  Christianity.  Ethnic  differences  often  overlay  and  intensify  these 
divisions. 

Preoccupied  with  assuring  the  country's  survival,  successive 
Chadian  governments  have  had  little  motivation  or  resources  to 
deal  with  urgent  social  and  economic  problems.  Up-to-date  popu- 
lation data — necessary  for  reliable  development  planning — are  lack- 
ing; however,  a  census  scheduled  for  1989  promised  to  remedy  this 
problem  partially. 

Other  challenges  include  providing  adequate  education  and 
health  care.  Starting  in  the  mid-1960s,  civil  strife  has  undermined 
the  Chadian  goal  of  universal  primary  school  education.  It  has  also 
brought  the  exile  of  much  of  the  country's  intellectual  community 
and  the  flight  of  foreign  personnel  who  had  staffed  institutions  of 
higher  learning.  Health  care  has  fared  even  more  poorly  than  has 
education.  Although  the  number  of  medical  facilities  of  all  kinds 
seems  to  have  grown  between  the  early  1970s  and  the  early  1980s, 
the  number  of  trained  personnel  has  not  kept  pace.  And  once  again, 
the  violence  of  war  and  discontent  with  the  government  in  rural 
areas  have  provoked  the  closing  of  many  facilities  and  the  flight 
of  their  staffs. 

Physical  Setting 

Located  in  north-central  Africa,  Chad  stretches  for  about  1 ,800 
kilometers  from  its  northernmost  point  to  its  southern  boundary. 
Except  in  the  far  northwest  and  south,  where  its  borders  converge, 
Chad's  average  width  is  about  800  kilometers.  Its  area  of  1 ,284,000 
square  kilometers  is  roughly  equal  to  the  combined  areas  of  Idaho, 
Wyoming,  Utah,  Nevada,  and  Arizona.  Chad's  neighbors  include 


35 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Libya  to  the  north,  Niger  and  Nigeria  to  the  west,  Sudan  to  the 
east,  Central  African  Republic  to  the  south,  and  Cameroon  to  the 
southwest. 

Chad  exhibits  two  striking  geographical  characteristics.  First, 
the  country  is  landlocked.  N'Djamena,  the  capital,  is  located  more 
than  1,100  kilometers  northeast  of  the  Adantic  Ocean;  Abeche, 
a  major  city  in  the  east,  lies  2,650  kilometers  from  the  Red  Sea; 
and  Faya  Largeau,  a  much  smaller  but  strategically  important 
center  in  the  north,  is  in  the  middle  of  the  Sahara  Desert,  1,550 
kilometers  from  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  These  vast  distances  from 
the  sea  have  had  a  profound  impact  on  Chad's  historical  and  con- 
temporary development.  The  second  noteworthy  characteristic  is 
that  the  country  borders  on  very  different  parts  of  the  African  con- 
tinent: North  Africa,  with  its  Islamic  culture  and  economic  orien- 
tation toward  the  Mediterranean  Basin;  West  Africa,  with  its  diverse 
religions  and  cultures  and  its  history  of  highly  developed  states  and 
regional  economies;  Northeast  Africa,  oriented  toward  the  Nile 
Valley  and  Red  Sea  region;  and  Central  or  Equatorial  Africa,  some 
of  whose  people  have  retained  classical  African  religions  while  others 
have  adopted  Christianity,  and  whose  economies  were  part  of  the 
great  Zaire  River  system.  Although  much  of  Chad's  distinctive- 
ness comes  from  this  diversity  of  influences,  since  independence 
the  diversity  has  also  been  an  obstacle  to  the  creation  of  a  national 
identity. 

The  Land 

Although  Chadian  society  is  economically,  socially,  and  cultur- 
ally fragmented,  the  country's  geography  is  unified  by  the  Lake 
Chad  Basin  (see  fig.  3).  Once  a  huge  inland  sea  (the  Paleochadian 
Sea)  whose  only  remnant  is  shallow  Lake  Chad,  this  vast  depression 
extends  west  into  Nigeria  and  Niger.  The  larger,  northern  portion 
of  the  basin  is  bounded  within  Chad  by  the  Tibesti  Mountains  in 
the  northwest,  the  Ennedi  Plateau  in  the  northeast,  the  Ouaddai 
Highlands  in  the  east  along  the  border  with  Sudan,  the  Guera 
Massif  in  central  Chad,  and  the  Mandara  Mountains  along  Chad's 
southwestern  border  with  Cameroon.  The  smaller,  southern  part 
of  the  basin  falls  almost  exclusively  in  Chad.  It  is  delimited  in  the 
north  by  the  Guera  Massif,  in  the  south  by  highlands  250  kilometers 
south  of  the  border  with  Central  African  Republic,  and  in  the  south- 
west by  the  Mandara  Mountains. 

Lake  Chad,  located  in  the  southwestern  part  of  the  basin  at  an 
altitude  of  282  meters,  surprisingly  does  not  mark  the  basin's  lowest 
point;  instead,  this  is  found  in  the  Bodele  and  Djourab  regions  in 
the  north-central  and  northeastern  parts  of  the  country,  respectively. 


36 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


This  oddity  arises  because  the  great  stationary  dunes  (ergs)  of  the 
Kanem  region  create  a  dam,  preventing  lake  waters  from  flowing 
to  the  basin's  lowest  point.  At  various  times  in  the  past,  and  as 
late  as  the  1870s,  the  Bahr  el  Ghazal  Depression,  which  extends 
from  the  northeastern  part  of  the  lake  to  the  Djourab,  acted  as  an 
overflow  canal;  since  independence,  climatic  conditions  have  made 
overflows  impossible. 

North  and  northeast  of  Lake  Chad,  the  basin  extends  for  more 
than  800  kilometers,  passing  through  regions  characterized  by  great 
rolling  dunes  separated  by  very  deep  depressions.  Although  vege- 
tation holds  the  dunes  in  place  in  the  Kanem  region,  farther  north 
they  are  bare  and  have  a  fluid,  rippling  character.  From  its  low 
point  in  the  Djourab,  the  basin  then  rises  to  the  plateaus  and  peaks 
of  the  Tibesti  Mountains  in  the  north.  The  summit  of  this 
formation — as  well  as  the  highest  point  in  the  Sahara  Desert — is 
Emi  Koussi,  a  dormant  volcano  that  reaches  3,414  meters  above 
sea  level.  The  basin's  northeastern  limit  is  the  Ennedi  Plateau, 
whose  limestone  bed  rises  in  steps  etched  by  erosion. 

East  of  the  lake,  the  basin  rises  gradually  to  the  Ouaddai  High- 
lands, which  mark  Chad's  eastern  border  and  also  divide  the  Chad 
and  Nile  watersheds.  Southeast  of  Lake  Chad,  the  regular  con- 
tours of  the  terrain  are  broken  by  the  Guera  Massif,  which  divides 
the  basin  into  its  northern  and  southern  parts. 

South  of  the  lake  lie  the  floodplains  of  the  Chari  and  Logone 
rivers,  much  of  which  are  inundated  during  the  rainy  season.  Far- 
ther south,  the  basin  floor  slopes  upward,  forming  a  series  of  low 
sand  and  clay  plateaus,  called  koros,  which  eventually  climb  to  615 
meters  above  sea  level.  South  of  the  Chadian  border,  the  koros  divide 
the  Lake  Chad  Basin  from  the  Ubangi-Zaire  river  system. 

Water  Systems 

Permanent  streams  do  not  exist  in  northern  or  central  Chad. 
Following  infrequent  rains  in  the  Ennedi  Plateau  and  Ouaddai 
Highlands,  water  may  flow  through  depressions  called  enneris  and 
wadis.  Often  the  result  of  flash  floods,  such  streams  usually  dry 
out  within  a  few  days  as  the  remaining  puddles  seep  into  the  sandy 
clay  soil.  The  most  important  of  these  streams  is  the  Batha,  which 
in  the  rainy  season  carries  water  west  from  the  Ouaddai  Highlands 
and  the  Guera  Massif  to  Lake  Fitri. 

Chad's  major  rivers  are  the  Chari  and  the  Logone  and  their  trib- 
utaries, which  flow  from  the  southeast  into  Lake  Chad.  Both  river 
systems  rise  in  the  highlands  of  Central  African  Republic  and 
Cameroon,  regions  that  receive  more  than  1,250  millimeters  of  rain- 
fall annually.  Fed  by  rivers  of  Central  African  Republic,  as  well 


37 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


1 8       Boundary  representation  not  22 
necessarily  authoritative 


LIBYA 


IN 

A 


NIGER 


SUDAN 


CENTRAL  \  10 
AFRICAN 
REPUBLIC  ^ 

h 


Figure  3.  Topography  and  Drainage 


as  by  the  Bahr  Salamat,  Bahr  Aouk,  and  Bahr  Sara  rivers  of 
southeastern  Chad,  the  Chari  River  is  about  1 ,200  kilometers  long. 


38 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


From  its  origins  near  the  city  of  Sarh,  the  middle  course  of  the 
Chari  makes  its  way  through  swampy  terrain;  the  lower  Chari  is 
joined  by  the  Logone  River  near  N'Djamena.  The  Chari' s  volume 
varies  greatly,  from  17  cubic  meters  per  second  during  the  dry 
season  to  340  cubic  meters  per  second  during  the  wettest  part  of 
the  year. 

The  Logone  River  is  formed  by  tributaries  flowing  from  Camer- 
oon and  Central  African  Republic.  Both  shorter  and  smaller  in 
volume  than  the  Chari,  it  flows  northeast  for  960  kilometers;  its 
volume  ranges  from  five  to  eighty-five  cubic  meters  per  second. 
At  N'Djamena  the  Logone  empties  into  the  Chari,  and  the  com- 
bined rivers  flow  together  for  thirty  kilometers  through  a  large  delta 
and  into  Lake  Chad.  At  the  end  of  the  rainy  season  in  the  fall, 
the  river  overflows  its  banks  and  creates  a  huge  floodplain  in  the 
delta. 

The  seventh  largest  lake  in  the  world  (and  the  fourth  largest  in 
Africa),  Lake  Chad  is  located  in  the  sahelian  zone,  a  region  just 
south  of  the  Sahara  Desert.  The  Chari  River  contributes  95  per- 
cent of  Lake  Chad's  water,  an  average  annual  volume  of  40  billion 
cubic  meters,  95  percent  of  which  is  lost  to  evaporation.  The  size 
of  the  lake  is  determined  by  rains  in  the  southern  highlands  bor- 
dering the  basin  and  by  temperatures  in  the  Sahel.  Fluctuations 
in  both  cause  the  lake  to  change  dramatically  in  size,  from  9,800 
square  kilometers  in  the  dry  season  to  25,500  at  the  end  of  the  rainy 
season.  Lake  Chad  also  changes  greatly  in  size  from  one  year  to 
another.  In  1870  its  maximum  area  was  28,000  square  kilometers. 
The  measurement  dropped  to  12,700  in  1908.  In  the  1940s  and 
1950s,  the  lake  remained  small,  but  it  grew  again  to  26,000  square 
kilometers  in  1963.  The  droughts  of  the  late  1960s,  early  1970s, 
and  mid-1980s  caused  Lake  Chad  to  shrink  once  again,  however. 
The  only  other  lakes  of  importance  in  Chad  are  Lake  Fitri,  in  Batha 
Prefecture,  and  Lake  Iro,  in  the  marshy  southeast. 

Climate 

The  Lake  Chad  Basin  embraces  a  great  range  of  tropical  climates 
from  north  to  south,  although  most  of  these  climates  tend  to  be 
dry.  Apart  from  the  far  north,  most  regions  are  characterized  by 
a  cycle  of  alternating  rainy  and  dry  seasons.  In  any  given  year, 
the  duration  of  each  season  is  determined  largely  by  the  positions 
of  two  great  air  masses — a  maritime  mass  over  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
to  the  southwest  and  a  much  drier  continental  mass.  During  the 
rainy  season,  winds  from  the  southwest  push  the  moister  maritime 
system  north  over  the  African  continent  where  it  meets  and  slips 
under  the  continental  mass  along  a  front  called  the  "  intertropical 


39 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


convergence  zone."  At  the  height  of  the  rainy  season,  the  front 
may  reach  as  far  as  Kanem  Prefecture.  By  the  middle  of  the  dry 
season,  the  intertropical  convergence  zone  moves  south  of  Chad, 
taking  the  rain  with  it.  This  weather  system  contributes  to  the  for- 
mation of  three  major  regions  of  climate  and  vegetation. 

Saharan  Region 

The  Saharan  region  covers  roughly  the  northern  third  of  the 
country,  including  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture  along  with 
the  northern  parts  of  Kanem,  Batha,  and  Biltine  prefectures  (see 
fig.  1).  Much  of  this  area  receives  only  traces  of  rain  during  the 
entire  year;  at  Faya  Largeau,  for  example,  annual  rainfall  aver- 
ages less  than  thirty  millimeters.  Scattered  small  oases  and  occa- 
sional wells  provide  water  for  a  few  date  palms  or  small  plots  of 
millet  and  garden  crops.  In  much  of  the  north,  the  average  daily 
maximum  temperature  is  about  32°C  during  January,  the  coolest 
month  of  the  year,  and  about  45 °C  during  May,  the  hottest  month. 
On  occasion,  strong  winds  from  the  northeast  produce  violent  sand- 
storms. In  northern  Biltine  Prefecture,  a  region  called  the  Mortcha 
plays  a  major  role  in  animal  husbandry.  Dry  for  nine  months  of 
the  year,  it  receives  350  millimeters  or  more  of  rain,  mostly  dur- 
ing July  and  August.  A  carpet  of  green  springs  from  the  desert 
during  this  brief  wet  season,  attracting  herders  from  throughout 
the  region  who  come  to  pasture  their  cattle  and  camels.  Because 
very  few  wells  and  springs  have  water  throughout  the  year,  the 
herders  leave  with  the  end  of  the  rains,  turning  over  the  land  to 
the  antelopes,  gazelles,  and  ostriches  that  can  survive  with  little 
groundwater. 

Sahelian  Region 

The  semiarid  sahelian  zone,  or  Sahel,  forms  a  belt  about  500 
kilometers  wide  that  runs  from  Lac  and  Chari-Baguirmi  prefec- 
tures eastward  through  Guera,  Ouaddai,  and  northern  Salamat 
prefectures  to  the  Sudanese  frontier.  The  climate  in  this  transition 
zone  between  the  desert  and  the  southern  soudanian  zone  is  divided 
into  a  rainy  season  (from  June  to  early  September)  and  a  dry  period 
(from  October  to  May).  In  the  northern  Sahel,  thorny  shrubs  and 
acacia  trees  grow  wild,  while  date  palms,  cereals,  and  garden  crops 
are  raised  in  scattered  oases.  Outside  these  settlements,  nomads 
tend  their  flocks  during  the  rainy  season,  moving  southward  as 
forage  and  surface  water  disappear  with  the  onset  of  the  dry  part 
of  the  year.  The  central  Sahel  is  characterized  by  drought-resistant 
grasses  and  small  woods.  Rainfall  is  more  abundant  there  than  in 
the  Saharan  region.  For  example,  N'Djamena  records  a  maximum 


40 


Villagers  drawing  water  from  a  wood-lined  well 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (Uri  Golani) 


41 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

annual  average  rainfall  of  580  millimeters,  while  Ouaddai  Prefec- 
ture receives  just  a  bit  less.  During  the  hot  season,  in  April  and 
May,  maximum  temperatures  frequently  rise  above  40°C.  In  the 
southern  part  of  the  Sahel,  rainfall  is  sufficient  to  permit  crop 
production  on  unirrigated  land,  and  millet  and  sorghum  are  grown 
(see  Agriculture,  ch.  3).  Agriculture  is  also  common  in  the  marsh- 
lands east  of  Lake  Chad  and  near  swamps  or  wells.  Many  farmers 
in  the  region  combine  subsistence  agriculture  with  the  raising  of 
cattle,  sheep,  goats,  and  poultry. 

Soudanian  Region 

The  humid  soudanian  zone  includes  the  southern  prefectures  of 
Mayo-Kebbi,  Tandjile,  Logone  Occidental,  Logone  Oriental, 
Moyen-Chari,  and  southern  Salamat.  Between  April  and  October, 
the  rainy  season  brings  between  750  and  1,250  millimeters  of 
precipitation.  Temperatures  are  high  throughout  the  year.  Day- 
time readings  in  Moundou,  the  major  city  in  the  southwest,  range 
from  27°C  in  the  middle  of  the  cool  season  in  January  to  about 
40°C  in  the  hot  months  of  March,  April,  and  May. 

The  soudanian  region  is  predominantiy  savanna,  or  plains  covered 
with  a  mixture  of  tropical  or  subtropical  grasses  and  woodlands. 
The  growth  is  lush  during  the  rainy  season  but  turns  brown  and 
dormant  during  the  five-month  dry  season  between  November  and 
March.  Over  a  large  part  of  the  region,  however,  natural  vegeta- 
tion has  yielded  to  agriculture. 

Population 

In  the  late  1980s,  demographic  data  for  Chad  were  very  incom- 
plete. One  of  the  most  important  demographic  techniques  is  projec- 
tion from  one  set  of  data  to  anticipate  the  evolution  of  the 
population,  but  the  lack  of  a  national  census  in  Chad  has  made 
applying  such  a  technique  difficult.  In  addition,  population  projec- 
tions assume  that  the  population  has  evolved  with  regularity  since 
the  last  collection  of  data.  In  Chad,  domestic  conflict,  foreign  mili- 
tary occupation  of  part  of  its  territory,  and  serious  famines,  from 
1968  through  1973  and  in  the  early  1980s,  have  disrupted  the  regu- 
lar change  of  the  population.  As  a  result,  many  population  esti- 
mates were  probably  inaccurate.  In  1988  most  population  estimates 
continued  to  be  based  on  projections  from  partial  studies  made 
in  1964  and  1968  by  the  National  Institute  of  Economic  and 
Statistical  Studies  (Institut  National  des  Etudes  Statistiques  et 
Economiques — INSEE)  in  France  and  by  the  Chadian  government. 
These  survey  data,  projected  forward,  were  the  major  reference 
sources  for  the  Chadian  government  and  for  many  international 


42 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


agencies  and  foreign  governments.  Two  organizations,  the  Sahel 
Institute  (Institut  du  Sahel — INSAH)  and  the  Population  Refer- 
ence Bureau  (PRB),  gave  different  figures  for  Chad's  population 
in  1985.  The  first  organization  estimated  the  population  at  almost 
5  million;  the  second,  at  5.2  million.  In  the  late  1980s,  cognizant 
of  the  need  for  demographic  data  for  planning,  the  Ministry  of  Plan- 
ning and  Reconstruction  and  the  United  Nations  Economic  Com- 
mission for  Africa  began  planning  the  first  national  census  for  1989. 

Estimates  of  total  population  acquire  greater  meaning  when  the 
processes  behind  them  are  examined  more  closely.  Population 
change  is  the  sum  of  two  sets  of  additions  and  two  sets  of  subtrac- 
tions. First,  there  are  additions  through  births.  In  mid- 1987  the 
PRB  estimated  Chad's  birthrate  at  43  live  births  per  1 ,000  inhabi- 
tants annually  (the  world  average  was  28  in  1987).  The  same  organ- 
ization suggested  that,  on  average,  Chadian  women  gave  birth  to 
5.9  children  over  their  reproductive  years,  a  slightly  lower  num- 
ber than  the  6.3  average  for  Africa  women  as  a  whole. 

Second,  there  are  additions  through  immigration.  Although  eth- 
nic, political,  and  economic  ties  connect  most  regions  of  Chad  with 
neighboring  states,  such  links  probably  have  not  brought  a  large 
number  of  permanent  immigrants.  By  the  late  1980s,  Chadians 
who  had  fled  the  civil  strife  in  the  southern  and  central  parts  of 
the  country  during  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s  apparently  had 
returned  in  large  numbers.  Nonetheless,  overall  immigration  prob- 
ably has  not  exceeded  emigration. 

Subtractions  for  population  decrease  also  are  calculated  for  two 
sets  of  events.  First,  there  are  subtractions  through  deaths.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  the  PRB  estimated  Chad's  mortality  rate  at  23  deaths 
annually  per  1 ,000  inhabitants — one  of  the  highest  mortality  rates 
in  the  world  (the  global  average  stood  at  10  in  1987).  Civilian  and 
military  deaths,  resulting  from  warfare,  poor  health  conditions,  and 
drought  undoubtedly  have  contributed  to  this  high  mortality  rate. 
The  yearly  infant  mortality  rate  (the  number  of  children  per  1 ,000 
births  who  die  before  age  one)  was  also  extremely  high  in  Chad, 
estimated  by  INSAH  and  the  PRB  at  155  and  143,  respectively. 
Among  children,  a  second  peak  in  mortality  occurs  after  weaning 
(from  about  one  and  one-half  to  two  years  of  age),  when  they  are 
deprived  of  their  mothers'  natural  immunities.  High  mortality  rates 
are  indicative  of  short  life  expectancies.  In  Chad,  INSAH  estimated 
the  life  expectancy  for  a  female  born  in  the  period  1975-80  at  43.4 
years;  for  a  male,  it  was  even  lower — 38.5  years. 

Emigration  is  the  second  form  of  subtraction.  Although  the  data 
for  Chad  were  partial,  labor  migration  and  refugee  flight  were  the 
two  major  types  of  emigration.  In  recent  decades,  some  of  the  old 


43 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


labor  migration  streams  have  continued,  such  as  that  to  Sudan, 
and  newer  ones  have  joined  them,  such  as  those  to  Nigeria  and 
the  oil-rich  countries  of  the  Middle  East  during  the  petroleum  boom 
of  the  1970s  and  early  1980s. 

Since  independence,  refugee  flight  has  been  a  major  component 
of  emigration.  In  the  late  1960s,  troubles  in  eastern  and  southeastern 
Chad  provoked  emigration  to  Sudan.  Patterns  of  flight  have  shifted 
with  shifts  in  the  theater  of  conflict.  Following  the  battles  of 
N'Djamena  in  1979  and  1980,  many  residents  sought  refuge  across 
the  Chari  River  in  neighboring  Cameroon.  Violence  against 
southerners  in  N'Djamena  brought  further  emigration,  and  the 
de  facto  partitioning  of  the  country  during  the  early  1980s  brought 
retribution  against  northern  merchants  living  in  the  southern  cities 
of  Moundou  and  Sarh.  Although  some  of  these  people  later  returned 
to  their  homes  within  Chad,  others  sought  refuge  in  Cameroon, 
Nigeria,  and  Central  African  Republic;  some  members  of  the  bour- 
geoisie and  intelligentsia  fled  to  Western  Europe.  In  the  1980s,  the 
conflict  shifted  north,  where  the  Chadian  and  Libyan  armies  clashed 
repeatedly.  These  campaigns  marked  a  major  escalation  in  vio- 
lence and  probably  provoked  flight  as  well  (see  Civil  Conflict  and 
Libyan  Intervention,  ch.  5). 

As  a  population,  Chadians  were  quite  young  (see  fig.  4).  The 
PRB  estimated  that  44  percent  of  the  population  was  younger  than 
fifteen  in  1987.  Only  2  percent  of  the  population  was  older  than 
sixty-four.  These  percentages  are  best  appreciated  as  components 
of  what  is  called  the  dependency  ratio — the  combined  percentage 
of  people  less  than  fifteen  and  more  than  sixty-four,  who,  because 
they  are  considered  only  marginally  productive,  must  be  supported 
by  the  remainder  of  the  population.  Although  some  social  scien- 
tists and  development  analysts  challenge  this  conventional  defini- 
tion, pointing  out  that  in  rural  Africa  and  urban  shanty  towns 
children  may  indeed  add  to  the  household  income,  most  demog- 
raphers agree  that  the  measure  is  nonetheless  a  good  general  indi- 
cator of  the  dependency  burden.  In  Chad,  then,  the  46  percent 
of  the  population  less  than  fifteen  and  more  than  sixty-four  essen- 
tially had  to  be  supported  by  the  other  54  percent.  Although  this 
ratio  was  not  the  highest  in  Africa,  the  level  of  dependency  was 
difficult  for  Chadian  society  to  bear,  in  part  because  poor  health 
and  inadequate  nutrition  already  took  such  a  high  toll  among  the 
working  population,  and  because  mechanization  had  not  raised 
productivity. 

In  terms  of  the  sex  structure  of  the  population,  the  1964  INS  AH 
survey  calculated  that  there  were  90  males  for  every  100  females; 
in  urban  centers,  the  male  percentage  of  the  population  rose  slightiy, 


44 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  96  for  every  100  women.  A  small  part  of  this  imbalance  may 
be  attributed  to  higher  male  mortality  rates,  but  male  labor  migra- 
tion is  probably  a  much  more  important  factor.  The  absence  of 
a  census  or  more  recent  demographic  surveys  made  it  impossible 
to  determine  if  the  Chadian  Civil  War  had  affected  the  sex  ratio. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Chad  had  a  low  population  density  of  about 
3.8  people  per  square  kilometer.  The  population  was  also  very 
unevenly  distributed  because  of  contrasts  in  climate  and  physical 
environment.  The  Saharan  zone  was  the  least  densely  populated. 
In  1982  it  was  estimated  to  have  a  population  density  of  0.15  per 
square  kilometer.  Most  inhabitants  of  the  region  lived  in  its  southern 
reaches,  south  of  16°  north  latitude. 

The  sahelian  zone  had  a  population  density  of  seven  persons  per 
square  kilometer  in  1971.  Within  the  region,  broad  spectrums  of 
rainfall  and  environment  and  the  diverse  life-styles  that  accompany 
them  have  resulted  in  widely  varying  population  densities,  from 
very  low  among  the  nomads  in  the  northern  regions  to  much  higher 
among  the  agricultural  populations  in  the  south. 

The  highest  population  densities — about  thirteen  people  per 
square  kilometer — occurred  in  the  soudanian  zone.  In  1971  almost 
45  percent  of  the  total  Chadian  population  lived  in  this  region. 

Chad  was  quite  rural.  The  PRB  placed  the  urban  population 
of  Africa  at  31  percent  in  1985,  whereas  Chad's  urban  population 
was  estimated  at  only  22  percent.  Although  the  urban  population 
remained  relatively  small,  urbanization  accelerated  in  the  1980s. 
Whereas  in  1971  only  seven  centers  had  more  than  10,000  inhabit- 
ants, INS  AH  estimated  that  by  1978  nine  cities  had  populations 
of  more  than  20,000.  From  a  total  of  132,502  enumerated  in  the 
urban  census  of  1968,  N'Djamena's  population  grew  to  150,000 
in  1971,  nearly  doubling  to  280,000  in  1978.  Although  much  of 
the  population  abandoned  the  city  during  the  battles  of  1979  and 
1980,  most  people  returned  over  the  next  several  years.  In  1983 
the  Chadian  government  predicted  that  urban  growth  would  con- 
tinue at  an  annual  rate  of  7.8  percent  for  the  capital  and  4.6  per- 
cent for  secondary  cities  such  as  Moundou,  Sarh,  and  Abeche. 

Languages  and  Ethnic  Groups 

The  people  of  Chad  speak  more  than  100  different  languages 
and  divide  themselves  into  many  ethnic  groups.  It  is  important  to 
note,  however,  that  language  and  ethnicity  are  not  the  same. 
Moreover,  neither  element  can  be  tied  to  a  particular  physical  type. 
The  commonly  held  image  that  Africa  is  populated  by  discrete  eth- 
nic groups  (or  "tribes")  who  live  isolated  from  each  other,  guard- 
ing their  languages  and  customs  jealously  and  intermarrying  only 


45 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


400 


300 


200 


100  0  100 

POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


200 


300 


400 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Chad,  Ministry  of  Planning  and  Reconstruction,  Tchad: 
Relance  economique  en  chiffres,  N'Djamena,  Chad,  1983,  15. 


Figure  4.  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1982 

with  each  other,  is  a  stereotype  that  hinders  understanding  of  the 
dynamics  of  African  societies.  In  Chad,  European  conquest  and 
administration  intensified  feelings  of  ethnic  separateness  by  draw- 
ing local  boundaries  along  perceived  ethnic  lines.  The  Europeans 
also  appointed  chiefs  and  other  local  African  authorities  who  had 
little  legitimacy  over  the  groups  they  were  to  lead.  In  general,  the 
French  favored  southerners  over  northerners  and  settled  popula- 
tions over  nomads.  This  bias  continued  after  independence  and 
has  been  an  important  element  in  internecine  conflict. 

Although  the  possession  of  a  common  language  shows  that  its 
speakers  have  lived  together  and  have  a  common  history,  peoples 
also  change  languages.  This  is  particularly  so  in  Chad,  where  the 
openness  of  the  terrain,  marginal  rainfall,  frequent  drought  and 
famine,  and  low  population  densities  have  encouraged  physical  and 
linguistic  mobility.  Slave  raids  among  non-Muslim  peoples,  internal 
slave  trade,  and  exports  of  captives  northward  from  the  ninth  to 
the  twentieth  centuries  also  have  resulted  in  language  changes. 

Anthropologists  view  ethnicity  as  being  more  than  genetics.  Like 
language,  ethnicity  implies  a  shared  heritage,  partly  economic, 
where  people  of  the  same  ethnic  group  may  share  a  livelihood,  and 
partly  social,  taking  the  form  of  shared  ways  of  doing  things  and 


46 


A  seminomadic  family  of  the  Daza  ethnic  group 
Courtesy  UNICEF  (Maggie  Murray -Lee) 

organizing  relations  among  individuals  and  groups.  Ethnicity  also 
involves  a  cultural  component  made  up  of  shared  values  and  a  com- 
mon worldview.  Like  language,  ethnicity  is  not  immutable.  Shared 
ways  of  doing  things  change  over  time  and  alter  a  group's  percep- 
tion of  its  own  identity. 

Not  only  do  the  social  aspects  of  ethnic  identity  change  but  the 
biological  composition  (or  gene  pool)  also  may  change  over  time. 
Although  most  ethnic  groups  emphasize  intermarriage,  people  are 
often  proscribed  from  seeking  partners  among  close  relatives — a 
prohibition  that  promotes  biological  variation.  In  all  groups,  the 
departure  of  some  individuals  or  groups  and  the  integration  of  others 
also  changes  the  biological  component. 

The  Chadian  government  has  avoided  official  recognition  of  eth- 
nicity. With  the  exception  of  a  few  surveys  conducted  shortly  after 
independence,  little  data  were  available  on  this  important  aspect 
of  Chadian  society.  Nonetheless,  ethnic  identity  was  a  significant 
component  of  life  in  Chad. 

Chad's  languages  fall  into  ten  major  groups,  each  of  which 
belongs  to  either  the  Nilo-Saharan,  Afro-Asiatic,  or  Congo- 
Kordofanian  language  family.  These  represent  three  of  the  four 
major  language  families  in  Africa;  only  the  Khoisan  languages  of 
southern  Africa  are  not  represented.  The  presence  of  such  different 


47 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

languages  suggests  that  the  Lake  Chad  Basin  may  have  been  an 
important  point  of  dispersal  in  ancient  times. 

Nilo-Saharan  Languages 

Similarities  of  language  do  not  imply  other  congruences.  Nilo- 
Saharan  language  speakers,  for  example,  display  a  variety  of  life- 
styles. Nomads  in  the  Sahara,  semisedentary  and  sedentary  peoples 
in  the  Sahel,  and  sedentary  populations  in  the  soudanian  zone  all 
may  speak  Nilo-Saharan  languages. 

Central  Saharan  Languages 

The  distribution  and  numbers  of  Central  Saharan  language 
speakers  probably  have  changed  dramatically  since  independence. 
The  Chadian  Civil  War  and  the  Chadian- Libyan  conflict  have  dis- 
rupted life  in  the  northern  part  of  the  country.  Also,  the  rise  to 
power  of  two  heads  of  state  from  the  far  north,  Goukouni  Oued- 
dei  and  Hissein  Habre,  may  have  inspired  the  migration  of  north- 
erners to  the  national  capital  and  a  greater  integration  of  the  region 
into  the  life  of  the  country. 

Teda  and  Daza  are  related  languages  in  the  Central  Saharan 
group.  Teda  is  spoken  by  the  Toubou  people  of  the  Tibesti  Moun- 
tains and  by  some  inhabitants  of  nearby  oases  in  northeastern  Niger 
and  southwestern  Libya.  Daza  speakers  live  south  of  the  Toubou 
in  Borkou  Subprefecture  and  Kanem  Prefecture,  between  the 
Tibesti  Mountains  and  Lake  Chad  (see  fig.  5). 

Despite  their  shared  linguistic  heritage,  the  Toubou  and  the  Daza 
do  not  think  of  themselves  as  belonging  to  a  common  group.  More- 
over, each  is  further  divided  into  subgroups  identified  with  particu- 
lar places.  Among  the  Toubou,  the  Teda  of  Tibesti  are  the  largest 
subgroup.  Daza  speakers  separate  themselves  into  more  than  a 
dozen  groups.  The  Kreda  of  Bahr  el  Ghazal  are  the  largest.  Next 
in  importance  are  the  Daza  of  Kanem.  Smaller  and  more  scattered 
subgroups  include  the  Charfarda  of  Ouaddai;  the  Kecherda  and 
Djagada  of  Kanem;  the  Doza,  Annakaza,  Kokorda,  Kamadja,  and 
Noarma  of  Borkou;  and  the  Ounia,  Gaeda,  and  Erdiha  of  Ennedi. 

About  one- third  of  the  Teda  are  nomads.  The  remainder,  along 
with  all  of  the  Daza,  are  seminomadic,  moving  from  pasture  to 
pasture  during  eight  or  nine  months  each  year  but  returning  to 
permanent  villages  during  the  rains.  In  general,  the  Teda  herd 
camels  and  live  farther  north,  where  they  move  from  oasis  to  oasis. 
The  Daza  often  herd  camels,  but  they  also  raise  horses,  sheep,  and 
goats.  Their  itineraries  take  them  farther  south,  where  some  have 
acquired  cattle  (whose  limited  capacity  to  endure  the  heat  and 
harsh  environment  of  the  northern  regions  has  altered  patterns  of 


48 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


transhumance).  Some  cattle  owners  leave  their  animals  with  herders 
in  the  south  when  they  return  north;  others  choose  to  remain  in 
the  south  and  entrust  their  other  animals  to  relatives  or  herders 
who  take  them  north. 

Kanembu  is  the  major  language  of  Lac  Prefecture  and  southern 
Kanem  Prefecture.  Although  Kanuri,  which  derived  from  Kanembu, 
was  the  major  language  of  the  Borno  Empire,  in  Chad  it  is  limited 
to  handfuls  of  speakers  in  urban  centers.  Kanuri  remains  a  major 
language  in  southeastern  Niger,  northeastern  Nigeria,  and  north- 
ern Cameroon. 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  Kanembu  constituted  the  greatest  part 
of  the  population  of  Lac  Prefecture,  but  some  Kanembu  also  lived 
in  Chari-Baguirmi  Prefecture.  Once  the  core  ethnic  group  of  the 
Kanem-Borno  Empire,  whose  territories  at  one  time  included  north- 
eastern Nigeria  and  southern  Libya,  the  Kanembu  retain  ties 
beyond  the  borders  of  Chad  (see  Kanem-Borno,  ch.  1).  For  exam- 
ple, close  family  and  commercial  ties  bind  them  with  the  Kanuri 
of  northeastern  Nigeria.  Within  Chad,  many  Kanembu  of  Lac  and 
Kanem  prefectures  identify  with  the  Alifa  of  Mao,  the  governor 
of  the  region  in  precolonial  times. 

Baele  (also  erroneously  called  Bideyat)  is  the  language  of  the 
Bideyat  of  Ennedi  Subprefecture  and  the  Zaghawa  of  Biltine  Prefec- 
ture. Despite  this  similarity,  the  Zaghawa  and  the  Bideyat  exhibit 
diverse  life-styles.  Some  Zaghawa  live  in  a  centralized  sultanate, 
with  a  ruling  family  of  Dadjo  origin;  these  Zaghawa  are  semiseden- 
tary  and  prominent  in  local  and  regional  commerce.  Other 
Zaghawa,  however,  living  primarily  in  the  south,  are  nomads.  The 
Bideyat  also  are  nomadic. 

Ouaddaian  Languages 

The  origins  of  Ouaddaian  languages  remain  obscure,  although 
their  distribution  implies  origins  farther  east,  an  interpretation  sup- 
ported by  oral  traditions.  Speakers  of  Ouaddaian  languages  may 
have  moved  westward  to  avoid  Arab  immigration  from  the  east. 
Another  theory  suggests  that  speakers  of  Ouaddaian  languages  once 
were  continuously  distributed  throughout  the  region  but  subse- 
quently lost  ground  as  the  population  accepted  Arabic. 

Although  some  authorities  separate  Tama,  Dadjo,  and  Mimi, 
others  consider  them  to  be  part  of  a  larger  Ouaddaian  group,  a 
linguistic  archipelago  stretching  from  western  Sudan  to  central 
Chad.  In  Chad  they  are  found  in  Biltine,  Ouaddai,  and  Guera 
prefectures. 

Tama  languages  are  spoken  in  Biltine  and  northern  Ouaddai 
Prefectures,  and  include  Tama,  Marari  (Abou  Charib),  Sungor, 


49 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


® 

National 
capital 

1 

Arab 

Sara-Bongo- 
Baguirmi 

Chadic 

1/  / 

Ouaddaian 

f= 

Mabang 

urn 

Banda-Ngbaka 

1:: 

Boua 

Moundang- 
Toupouri- 
Mboum 

0  50 

100  Kilometers 

0        50     100  Miles 

N 

A 


TEDA 


DAD  JO 


N'Djamena 


NOTE-  Locations  of  groups  and  languages 
are  approximate. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jean  Cabot,  Atlas  Practique  du  Tchad,  Paris,  1972, 
36-37. 


Figure  5.  Ethno linguistic  Map 
50 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Kibet,  Mourro,  and  Dagel.  The  Tama  speakers,  who  live  in  eastern 
Biltine  Prefecture  near  the  Sudanese  border,  are  the  largest  of  these 
groups.  Although  they  live  in  the  arid  Sahel,  crop  rotation  has 
allowed  them  to  settle  in  permanent  villages.  The  Tama  live  in 
cantons  of  several  thousand  people,  each  administered  by  a  canton 
chief.  For  several  centuries,  central  authority  has  been  vested  in 
sultans  believed  to  be  of  Dadjo  origin,  who  are  enthroned  in  ceremo- 
nies at  the  ruins  of  Nir,  the  precolonial  capital. 

The  Marari  and  Abou  Charib,  sedentary  peoples  sharing  a  Tama 
language,  live  south  and  west,  respectively,  of  the  Tama  in  Ouad- 
dai  Prefecture.  Although  they  speak  a  Tama  language,  their  tra- 
ditions suggest  descent  from  the  Tunjur,  migrants  from  Sudan  who 
once  ruled  the  sultanate  of  Wadai  (see  Bagirmi  and  Wadai,  ch.  1). 
To  the  west  of  the  Tama  and  northwest  of  the  Marari  and  Abou 
Charib  are  the  Sungor,  another  sedentary  population.  The  Sungor 
consider  themselves  to  be  of  Yemeni  ancestry,  a  popular  and  pres- 
tigious Islamic  pedigree  among  Muslims  of  the  region.  Despite 
speaking  a  Tama  language,  Sungor  society  and  customs  most 
resemble  those  of  the  Maba. 

The  Dadjo  language  has  eastern  and  western  dialects.  Once  the 
rulers  of  the  sultanate  of  Wadai,  the  Dadjo  people  were  separated 
into  two  groups  during  the  fifteenth  century.  At  that  time,  the 
Tunjur  conquered  Wadai,  and  some  Dadjo  people  fled  west.  The 
eastern  Dadjo  remained  in  southern  present-day  Ouaddai  Prefec- 
ture and,  following  defeat  by  the  Tunjur,  founded  a  new  sultanate 
with  its  capital  at  Goz  Beida.  Their  descendants  are  primarily  farm- 
ers. The  western  Dadjo  live  among  the  Hajerai  peoples  of  north- 
ern Guera  Prefecture.  Cognizant  of  their  common  origin,  the 
eastern  and  western  groups  permit  intermarriage. 

Mimi  is  the  least  frequently  spoken  Ouaddaian  language.  Mimi 
speakers  who  live  in  the  plains  use  Arabic  to  communicate  with 
their  neighbors;  Mimi  speakers  who  live  in  the  mountains  gener- 
ally speak  Zaghawa  with  other  highland  dwellers. 

Mabang  Languages 

Mabang  languages  are  concentrated  in  the  highlands  of  Ouad- 
dai Prefecture,  but  they  are  also  spoken  in  Biltine  and  Salamat 
prefectures.  Maba  is  the  major  language  of  the  group.  Maba  speak- 
ers are  semisedentary  farmers  who  combine  millet  cultivation  during 
the  rainy  season  with  herding  during  the  drier  parts  of  the  year. 
For  the  last  several  decades,  many  Maba  laborers  have  migrated 
to  Sudan.  The  core  ethnic  group  of  the  sultanate  of  Wadai,  the 
Maba  played  a  central  role  in  that  state  even  after  conquest  by  rulers 
from  the  east  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Wadai  sultans  frequently 


51 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

took  Maba  women  as  first  wives,  and  the  first  dignitary  of  the  court 
usually  was  also  Maba. 

Massalit,  another  major  Mabang  language,  is  spoken  by  peo- 
ple who  live  east  of  the  Maba  along  the  Sudan  border.  Comple- 
mented by  a  far  larger  Massalit  population  in  Sudan,  the  Chadian 
Massalit  are  farmers  who  rely  on  passing  animal  herds  to  fertilize 
their  fields. 

Massalat  speakers  are  found  farther  west  and  are  divided  into 
two  groups,  one  in  eastern  Batha  near  Ouaddai  Prefecture,  and 
the  other  in  northern  Guera  Prefecture.  Once  part  of  the  larger 
Massalit  community,  the  Massalat  have  diverged  from  the  main 
group.  The  two  languages  are  sufficiently  different  that  linguists 
classify  Massalat  in  a  separate  subgroup.  In  addition,  the  Mas- 
salat physically  and  culturally  resemble  the  Dadjo  more  closely  than 
they  do  their  relatives  to  the  east. 

Runga  is  spoken  over  a  large  part  of  Salamat  Prefecture  and 
in  a  small  part  of  Central  African  Republic.  Many  Runga  speak- 
ers are  farmers  who  grow  millet,  sorghum,  peanuts,  and  cotton. 
In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Runga  were  ruled  by  sultans  from 
a  capital  in  the  Salamat  region.  Herders  of  Wadai,  the  Runga  also 
founded  Dar  al  Kuti,  the  most  important  precolonial  state  in  north- 
ern Central  African  Republic.  Extensive  slave  raiding  by  the 
Sudanese  warlord  Rabih  Fadlallah  in  the  1890s  decimated  the 
Runga  in  Chad;  as  late  as  the  1960s,  they  numbered  only  about 
12,000. 

Other  Mabang  languages  spoken  by  much  smaller  populations 
include  Marfa,  Karanga,  and  Kashmere,  found  in  the  highlands 
north  of  Abeche;  Koniere,  spoken  in  a  small  region  just  east  of 
Abeche;  and  Bakhat,  a  language  of  restricted  distribution,  found 
west  of  Abeche. 

Sara-Bongo-Baguirmi  Languages 

Classified  in  the  Chari-Nile  subfamily  of  the  Nilo-Saharan  lan- 
guages, Sara-Bongo-Baguirmi  languages  are  scattered  from  Lake 
Chad  to  the  White  Nile  in  southwestern  Sudan.  Unlike  Central 
Saharan  languages,  when  mapped  out  they  form  a  patchwork  quilt 
rather  than  a  solid  band. 

Kouka,  Bilala,  and  Medogo,  languages  spoken  around  Lake  Fitri 
in  southwestern  Batha  Prefecture,  are  the  northernmost  members 
of  this  subgroup.  These  languages  are  mutually  comprehensible, 
and  the  peoples  who  use  them  are  thought  to  be  descendants  of 
the  core  ethnic  groups  of  the  precolonial  sultanate  of  Yao  (a  state 
founded  by  the  Bulala,  who  ruled  a  vast  region  extending  as  far 
west  as  Kanem  in  the  fifteenth  century).  The  Kouka,  Bilala,  and 


52 


A  young  woman  prepares  a  meal  in  a  village  in  Chari-Baguirmi 

Prefecture 
Courtesy  Audrey  Kizziar 

Medogo  populations  intermarry  and  share  institutions  for  the 
mediation  of  disputes.  The  groups  farm  and  raise  animals,  which 
they  sometimes  entrust  to  neighboring  Arabs.  Their  similarities 
are  so  striking  that  they  are  sometimes  classed  together  as  the 
Lisi. 

Barma  is  spoken  in  Chari-Baguirmi  Prefecture  by  the  Baguirmi, 
the  core  population  of  another  precolonial  state.  Today  the  Baguirmi 
are  concentrated  in  and  around  Massenya,  a  city  southeast  of 
N'Djamena  named  for  their  precolonial  capital.  The  Baguirmi  iden- 
tify themselves  as  either  river  Barmi  or  land  Barmi.  The  land  Barmi 
farm  millet,  sorghum,  beans,  sesame,  peanuts,  and  cotton.  The 
river  Barmi  fish  along  carefully  demarcated  stretches  of  the  Chari 
and  Bahr  Ergig  rivers.  Arabic  loanwords  are  numerous  in  Barma, 
a  product  of  the  Baguirmi' s  adoption  of  Islam  and  their  interac- 
tion with  neighboring  Arab  pastoralists  over  a  long  period  of  time. 
Long-standing  economic  ties  with  the  West  have  also  prompted 
the  incorporation  of  a  Kanuri  commercial  vocabulary. 

Kenga,  found  among  the  Hajerai  in  Guera  Prefecture,  is  closely 
related  to  Barma.  Although  its  speakers  are  said  to  have  played 
a  prominent  role  in  the  foundation  of  the  Bagirmi  Empire,  today 
they  resemble  their  highland  neighbors  more  closely  than  their  more 
distant  linguistic  relatives. 


53 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Sara  languages  of  southern  Chad  constitute  the  quilt's  largest 
patch,  stretching  from  Logone  Occidental  Prefecture  to  eastern 
Moyen-Chari  Prefecture.  Linguists  divide  Sara  languages  into  five 
subgroups.  Sara  languages  seem  to  have  drifted  into  southern  Chad 
from  the  northeast.  Eventually,  Sara  speakers  left  behind  the  north- 
ern languages  of  the  group  as  they  made  their  way  to  the  richer 
hunting  grounds  and  agricultural  land  south  of  the  Chari  River. 
This  must  have  occurred  very  long  ago,  however,  because  the  Sara 
languages  and  those  of  the  northern  members  of  the  group  are 
mutually  unintelligible.  Moreover,  Sara  oral  traditions  record  only 
short-range  migrations  of  Sara  speakers  in  the  south,  suggesting 
that  movement  from  the  north  happened  earlier. 

Boua 

Boua  languages  are  distributed  along  the  middle  Chari  River 
in  Moyen-Chari  Prefecture  and  in  central  Guera  Prefecture.  Like 
the  Sara,  they  are  divided  into  five  subgroups:  Boua  proper,  Neil- 
lim,  Tounia,  Koke,  and  Fanian  or  Mana.  Only  a  few  thousand 
people  speak  Boua  languages,  but  it  is  believed  that  their  ances- 
tors preceded  Sara-speaking  settlers  in  the  Chari  Valley.  Several 
centuries  ago,  all  the  Boua  subgroups  may  have  lived  farther  north 
in  Guera  Prefecture.  Under  pressure  from  slave  raiders  along  the 
Islamic  frontier,  some  Boua  speakers  probably  migrated  southward. 
Although  speakers  of  Boua  proper  submitted  to  neighboring  slave 
raiders  from  the  Bagirmi  Empire,  they  in  turn  raided  their  Neil- 
lim  neighbors  to  the  southeast.  Similarly,  the  Neillim  attacked  the 
Tounia  to  their  southeast.  The  Tounia  sought  refuge  among  the 
Kaba  (a  Sara  subgroup)  on  the  site  of  the  present-day  city  of  Sarh. 

Afro-Asiatic  Languages 

Two  major  Afro-Asiatic  language  are  represented  in  Chad. 
Chadic  languages  stretch  from  the  western  borders  of  Nigeria  to 
Ouaddai  Prefecture,  and  Arabic- speaking  populations  are  scattered 
throughout  the  Sahel. 

Chadic  Languages 

Most  speakers  of  Chadic  languages,  including  the  20  million 
speakers  of  Hausa,  the  major  Chadic  language,  live  west  of  Chad. 
The  peculiar  east-west  distribution  of  Chadic  along  the  southern 
fringe  of  the  Sahara  from  western  Nigeria  to  eastern  Chad  has  led 
some  experts  to  suggest  that  ancestral  Chadic  languages  were  spoken 
by  peoples  living  along  the  southern  shores  of  the  Paleochadian 
Sea.  The  first  cluster  of  languages  is  closely  associated  with  water — 
the  lake,  the  delta,  the  Chari  and  Logone  rivers,  and  their  adjacent 


54 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


floodplains.  Water  also  is  important  to  the  economies  of  most  of 
the  populations  speaking  these  languages.  In  the  second  cluster, 
Chadic  speakers  are  descended  from  refugee  populations  who 
perhaps  sought  shelter  in  the  highlands  when  the  contraction  of 
the  sea  and  the  increased  aridity  of  the  region  allowed  the  penetra- 
tion of  more  aggressive  herding  populations. 

Within  Chad,  the  Chadic  languages  are  distributed  in  two  pat- 
terns. The  first  extends  from  Lake  Chad  south  along  the  Chari 
and  Logone  rivers  to  Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture.  Individual  languages 
fall  into  five  groups,  arrayed  from  north  to  southeast. 

Buduma-Kouri  is  spoken  by  two  groups  of  lake  people  who  inter- 
marry despite  some  social  differences.  The  Buduma,  who  believe 
that  they  are  the  original  inhabitants  of  Lake  Chad,  live  on  its  north- 
ern islands  and  shores.  In  the  past,  the  Buduma  spent  much  of 
their  time  fishing  on  lake  islands.  In  recent  times,  however,  their 
economic  activities  have  diversified  to  include  farming  and  herd- 
ing. Active  in  commerce  between  Chad  and  Nigeria,  the  Buduma 
raise  cattle  whose  very  large  and  hollow  horns  serve  as  flotation 
devices  that  permit  their  owners  to  "herd"  them  in  the  lake  itself. 
The  lake  has  long  protected  the  Buduma,  allowing  them  to  main- 
tain a  separate  identity.  Despite  centuries  of  contact  with  Islamic 
states  around  the  lake,  for  example,  they  maintained  their  own 
religion  until  the  early  twentieth  century. 

The  Kouri,  who  speak  the  same  language,  live  on  the  shores  and 
islands  of  the  southern  part  of  Lake  Chad.  Devout  Muslims,  the 
Kouri  believe  that  they  are  descendants  of  Muslim  migrants  from 
Yemen  and  that  they  are  related  to  the  Kanembu,  whose  medieval 
empire  sponsored  the  spread  of  Islam  in  the  region.  Kouri  eco- 
nomic activities  resemble  those  of  the  Buduma;  however,  the 
absence  of  polders  (see  Glossary)  along  this  part  of  the  lakeshore 
has  led  the  Kouri  to  confine  farming  to  small  plots  around  their 
villages.  Although  they  confine  their  herds  to  the  islands  during 
the  dry  season,  they  may  entrust  them  to  neighboring  Kanembu 
for  pasturing  during  the  rains. 

Kotoko  is  spoken  along  the  lower  Chari  and  Logone  rivers  by 
peoples  thought  to  be  descendants  of  the  legendary  Sao  (see  Pre- 
history, ch.  1).  Divided  into  small  states  with  fortified  cities  as  their 
capitals,  the  Kotoko  consider  themselves  "owners  of  the  land"  by 
virtue  of  their  long  residence,  and  other  peoples  in  the  region  recog- 
nize this  claim.  For  example,  neighboring  Arabs  pay  tribute  for 
the  right  to  farm  and  herd.  The  Kotoko  also  have  a  monopoly  over 
fishing  and  water  transport.  Rights  to  the  waters  of  the  Logone 
and  Chari  rivers  are  divided  among  the  cities,  each  of  which  has 
a  "chief  of  the  waters,"  whose  communications  with  the  water 


55 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

spirits  determine  the  opening  of  the  fishing  season.  Non-Kotoko 
must  pay  for  the  right  to  fish.  Outnumbered  in  their  own  lands 
by  Bororo  and  Arab  herders,  only  about  7,000  Kotoko  lived  in 
Chad  in  the  late  1960s;  three  times  as  many  lived  across  the  Logone 
in  Cameroon.  Strife  in  Chad — particularly  the  troubles  in 
N'Djamena  in  1979  and  1980 — probably  has  accelerated  the 
emigration  of  the  Kotoko  from  Chad. 

Massa  languages,  including  Massa,  Moussey,  Marba,  and  Dari, 
are  centered  in  southern  Chari-Baguirmi  and  Mayo-Kebbi  prefec- 
tures. The  Massa  proper  farm,  herd,  and  fish  in  floodplains  of  the 
middle  Chari.  Repeatedly  through  their  history,  the  Massa  suffered 
raids  from  their  Muslim  neighbors — the  Kanuri  of  the  Borno 
Empire,  the  Barmi  of  the  Bagirmi  Empire,  and  the  Fulani  of  Cam- 
eroon. The  Massa  survived  these  military  onslaughts,  in  part 
because  their  villages,  which  crown  the  hills  in  the  Chari  flood- 
plain,  afforded  protection  for  much  of  the  year.  Having  survived 
these  threats,  in  recent  years  the  Massa  ironically  have  adopted 
Muslim  dress  and  have  superimposed  some  features  of  Fulani 
political  structure  on  their  local  " chiefs  of  the  lands."  The  other 
speakers  of  Massa  languages  resemble  the  Massa  proper.  Estimated 
to  number  120,000  in  the  late  1970s,  the  largest  group  among  them 
is  the  Moussey,  who  live  in  and  around  Gounou  Gay  a  in  Mayo- 
Kebbi  Prefecture. 

The  last  cluster  of  Chadic  languages  in  this  first  distribution 
encompasses  Nachere,  Lele,  Gablai,  and  Guidar  spoken  primarily 
in  Tandjile  Prefecture  and  with  outlying  languages  that  include 
Gabri  (in  Tandjile  Prefecture)  and  Toumak,  Somrai,  Ndam, 
Miltou,  and  Saraoua  (in  Moyen-Chari  Prefecture).  This  cluster 
of  languages  forms  a  transition  zone  between  the  Massa  and  the 
Sara  languages.  The  numbers  of  speakers  of  these  languages  are 
small,  probably  because  their  peoples  have  been  absorbed  by  more 
numerous  neighbors  through  intermarriage  or  emigration. 

The  second  Chadic  language  distribution  comprises  two  clusters. 
The  first  brings  together  the  languages  spoken  by  the  Hajerai,  the 
mountain  peoples  of  Guera  Prefecture.  These  peoples  are  descended 
from  refugees  from  the  surrounding  plains  who  sought  shelter  in 
the  mountains  when  invaded  by  raiders  from  neighboring  central- 
ized states.  Despite  the  presence  of  non-Chadic  languages  (such 
as  Kenga,  which  is  part  of  the  Sara-Bongo-Baguirmi  group),  most 
Hajerai  speak  Chadic  languages,  such  as  Djongor,  Dangaleat, 
Bidyo,  Mogoum,  Sokoro,  Barain,  and  Saba.  The  Hajerai  groups 
share  important  religious  institutions,  such  as  the  margai  cult  of  place 
spirits;  at  the  same  time,  they  maintain  separate  identities  and  refuse 
to  intermarry  (see  Classical  African  Religions,  this  ch.).  All  have 


56 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

traditions  of  fierce  independence.  The  Hajerai  were  among  the  earli- 
est supporters  of  rebellion  against  the  Chadian  national  govern- 
ment in  the  1960s. 

Moubi  languages  of  Ouaddai  Prefecture  make  up  the  second 
cluster  of  this  second  distribution  of  Chadic  languages.  The  Moubi 
are  a  sedentary  people  who  live  south  of  the  Massalit.  They  grow 
millet,  sorghum,  sesame,  beans,  cotton,  and  peanuts.  In  recent 
years,  they  have  also  adopted  cattle  herding,  a  practice  borrowed 
from  the  Missiriye  Arab  herders  who  regularly  cross  their  lands 
and  with  whom  the  Moubi  have  long  exchanged  goods  and  ser- 
vices. Like  the  Hajerai,  the  Moubi  have  resisted  the  government 
since  shortly  after  independence. 

Arabic 

There  are  about  thirty  different  dialects  of  Arabic  in  Chad.  The 
Arabs  divide  themselves  into  three  major  "tribes":  the  Juhayna, 
the  Hassuna,  and  the  Awlad  Sulayman.  In  this  context,  tribe  refers 
to  a  group  claiming  descent  from  a  common  ancestor.  The  Juhayna, 
who  began  arriving  from  Sudan  in  the  fourteenth  century,  are  by 
far  the  most  important.  The  Hassuna,  who  migrated  to  Chad  from 
Libya,  live  in  Kanem  Prefecture.  The  Awlad  Sulayman  also  hail 
from  Libya,  but  they  arrived  in  the  nineteenth  century,  well  after 
the  others.  Most  of  the  Arabs  are  herders  or  farmers. 

Among  Arabic  herdsmen,  life-styles  vary  considerably.  The  dif- 
ferent needs  of  camels,  cattle,  goats,  and  sheep  result  in  different 
patterns  of  setdement  and  movement.  In  addition  to  herding,  many 
Arabic  speakers  earn  their  livelihoods  as  small  and  middle-level 
merchants.  In  N'Djamena  and  in  towns  such  as  Sarh  and 
Moundou,  Arabic  speakers  dominated  local  commerce  up  until  the 
1970s;  however,  because  of  the  anti-Muslim  violence  in  the  south 
in  the  late  1970s,  many  moved  to  central  or  nothern  Chad. 

Despite  the  diversity  of  dialects  and  the  scattered  distribution 
of  Arabic-speaking  populations,  the  language  has  had  a  major 
impact  on  Chad.  In  the  Sahel,  Arab  herdsmen  and  their  wives  fre- 
quent local  markets  to  exchange  their  animals,  butter,  and  milk 
for  agricultural  products,  cloth,  and  crafts.  Itinerant  Arab  traders 
and  settled  merchants  in  the  towns  play  major  roles  in  local  and 
regional  economies.  As  a  result,  Chadian  Arabic  (or  Turku)  has 
became  a  lingua  franca,  or  trade  language.  Arabic  also  has  been 
important  because  it  is  the  language  of  Islam  and  of  the  Quran, 
its  holy  book.  Quranic  education  has  stimulated  the  spread  of  the 
language  and  enhanced  its  stature  among  the  non-Arab  Muslims 
of  Chad. 


57 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Not  all  Arabic  speakers  are  of  Arab  descent.  The  assimilation 
of  local  peoples  (both  free  and  slave)  into  Arabic  groups  has  affected 
both  the  dialects  and  the  customs  of  Arabic  speakers  in  Chad.  Non- 
Arabs  also  have  adopted  the  language.  To  cite  two  examples,  the 
Yalna  and  the  Bandala  are  of  Hajerai  and  Ouaddaian  origin,  respec- 
tively, and  were  probably  originally  slaves  who  adopted  the  Arabic 
language  of  their  masters.  Among  the  Runga,  who  were  not  slaves, 
Arabic  is  also  widely  spoken. 

Congo-Kordofanian  Languages 

Moundang-  Toupouri-Mboum 

Classified  as  belonging  to  the  Niger-Congo  subfamily  of  the 
Congo-Kordofanian  family,  languages  in  the  Moundang-Toupouri- 
Mboum  groups  are  spoken  by  a  variety  of  populations  in  Mayo- 
Kebbi  and  Logone  Oriental  prefectures.  These  languages  may  be 
divided  into  seven  subgroups:  Moundang,  Toupouri,  Mboum/ 
Laka,  Kera,  Mongbai,  Kim,  and  Mesme.  Speakers  of  Moundang, 
Toupouri,  and  Mboum/Laka  are  by  far  the  most  numerous  of  this 
group.  Despite  belonging  to  the  same  language  group,  these  three 
populations  have  very  different  social  structures,  life-styles,  and 
myths  of  origin. 

Moundang  is  spoken  by  more  than  100,000  people  in  Mayo- 
Kebbi  Prefecture;  numerous  Moundang  speakers  also  live  in 
Cameroon.  The  Moundang  people  raise  millet  for  food  and  cot- 
ton for  sale.  They  also  own  cattle,  which  are  used  for  marriage 
payments,  religious  sacrifices,  and  payment  of  fines.  Bororo  herd- 
ers live  in  the  same  region  and  often  take  care  of  Moundang 
livestock. 

On  the  broadest  level,  the  Moundang  still  belong  to  a  kingdom 
founded  two  centuries  ago.  Although  the  French  colonial  adminis- 
tration and  the  independent  Chadian  governments  undermined  the 
military  power  of  the  gon  lere  (king),  he  continued  to  wield  influence 
in  the  1980s  from  his  capital  at  Lere.  On  a  smaller  scale,  clan 
institutions  remain  important.  Associated  with  particular  territor- 
ies, taboos,  totem  animals,  and  marriage  rules,  clan  government, 
which  predates  the  kingdom,  is  much  less  centralized.  In  some 
respects,  the  two  sets  of  institutions  act  as  checks  on  each  other. 
For  example,  the  clans  allow  the  king  to  organize  manhood  initia- 
tion ceremonies,  central  to  the  maintenance  of  Moundang  identity; 
however,  the  councils  of  elders  of  each  clan  may  offer  advice  to 
the  ruler. 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Moundang  suffered  frequent  attacks 
by  Fulani  invaders  from  the  west.  They  were  never  subjugated, 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


but  the  close  contact  has  resulted  in  the  adoption  of  Fulani  princi- 
ples of  political  organization  and  dress. 

Mboum/Laka  speakers  live  in  southern  Logone  Oriental  Prefec- 
ture. About  100,000  Mboum/Laka  speakers  lived  in  Chad  in  the 
1980s;  a  larger  population  lived  across  the  border  in  Cameroon 
and  Central  African  Republic.  Sedentary  farmers,  the  Mboum  and 
the  Laka  probably  were  pushed  east  and  south  by  the  expansion 
of  the  Fulani  over  the  past  two  centuries. 

The  Toupouri  language  and  people  are  found  in  Mayo-Kebbi 
Prefecture  around  the  town  of  Fianga.  Almost  all  of  their  land  is 
cultivated,  and  productivity  is  enhanced  by  the  use  of  animal  fer- 
tilizer and  double  cropping.  During  the  rainy  season,  the  Toupouri 
raise  sorghum.  Berebere,  a  kind  of  millet,  is  grown  in  the  drier  part 
of  the  year.  Cattle  and  fish  provide  additional  food  resources.  Num- 
bering about  100,000,  the  Toupouri  live  in  the  most  densely  popu- 
lated part  of  Chad;  some  cantons  reach  densities  of  twelve  people 
per  square  kilometer.  Overcrowding  has  promoted  emigration, 
primarily  to  N'Djamena  and  Nigeria. 

Fulani 

Fulani  speakers  are  not  very  numerous  in  Chad.  Part  of  the  West 
Atlantic  subfamily  of  the  Congo-Kordofanian  family  of  languages, 
Fulani  (called  Peul  by  the  French)  first  appeared  in  the  Senegal 
River  Valley  in  West  Africa.  Population  growth  and  the  vagaries 
of  climate  encouraged  the  eastward  drift  of  Fulani-speaking  herd- 
ers through  the  Sahel.  Some  Fulani  speakers  adopted  Islam  and 
became  very  important  actors  in  the  spread  of  the  religion  and  the 
rise  of  Muslim  states  west  of  Chad.  Many  of  these  people  settled, 
taking  up  village  or  urban  life  and  abandoning  nomadism.  Other 
Fulani  speakers,  however,  remained  loyal  to  their  pre-Islamic  faith 
and  their  nomadic  life- style. 

Fulani  speakers  arrived  in  Chad  only  in  the  past  two  centuries. 
In  the  mid-1960s,  about  32,000  Fulani  lived  in  Kanem,  southern 
Batha,  and  northern  Chari-Baguirmi  prefectures,  where  they  raised 
mainly  catde  and  sheep.  Many  of  the  Fulani  are  fervent  Muslims, 
and  some  are  teachers  of  the  Quran. 

Related  to  the  Fulani  ethnically  and  linguistically — but  refus- 
ing contact — are  the  nomadic  Bororo  of  western  Chad.  In  the  dry 
season,  the  Bororo  pasture  their  animals  around  wells  and  pools 
in  northern  Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture  near  Bongor.  After  the  first 
major  rains,  they  leave  for  Kanem  Prefecture,  north  of  Lake  Chad. 

Banda  -Ngbaka 

Also  members  of  the  Niger-Congo  subfamily  of  the  Congo- 


59 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Kordofanian  languages,  Banda-Ngbaka  languages  are  located  in 
Guera,  Salamat,  and  Moyen-Chari  prefectures.  Subgroups  include 
Sango,  Bolgo,  Goula,  and  Goula  Iro.  Although  not  spoken  as  a 
first  language  in  Chad,  Sango  has  been  particularly  important 
because  it  served  as  a  trade  language  during  the  colonial  era. 
Although  most  Banda-Ngbaka  languages  are  found  farther  south 
in  Central  African  Republic,  the  presence  of  these  subgroups  in 
Chad  suggests  that  Banda-Ngbaka  speakers  were  once  much  more 
numerous  in  Chad.  Bolgo,  found  with  Hajerai  and  Goula  languages 
in  the  vicinity  of  Lake  Iro  and  Lake  Mamoun,  is  spoken  by  refu- 
gee populations.  Populations  speaking  these  languages  are  very 
diverse.  Although  the  Goula  speak  a  Banda-Ngbaka  language,  for 
example,  their  culture  resembles  that  of  the  Sara. 

Social  Structure 

The  variety  and  number  of  languages  in  Chad  are  mirrored  by 
the  country's  diversity  of  social  structures.  The  colonial  adminis- 
tration and  independent  governments  have  attempted  to  impose 
a  "national"  society  on  the  citizenry,  but  for  most  Chadians  the 
local  or  regional  society  remains  the  most  important  reference  point 
outside  the  immediate  family. 

This  diversity  of  social  structure  has  several  dimensions.  For 
example,  some  social  structures  are  small  in  scale,  while  others  are 
huge.  Among  the  Toubou  and  the  Daza,  some  clans  group  only 
a  hundred  individuals.  At  the  other  extreme  are  the  kingdoms  and 
sultanates — found  among  the  peoples  of  Ouaddai  Prefecture,  the 
Moundang  of  Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture,  the  Barmi  of  Chari- 
Baguirmi  Prefecture,  and  the  Kanembu  of  Kanem  Prefecture, 
among  others — which  bring  together  thousands  or  even  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  people.  Although  these  social  units  have  enjoyed  only 
limited  formal  legal  recognition  since  the  colonial  epoch,  they 
remain  important  institutions  whose  authority  is  recognized  by  their 
people. 

Chadian  social  structures  also  differ  in  the  way  they  locate  peo- 
ple in  their  physical  environment.  Despite  a  sense  of  territory,  even 
among  such  highly  mobile  peoples  as  the  Toubou  and  Daza,  the 
bond  between  an  individual  clan  and  its  land  is  less  specific  than 
the  link  between  the  inhabitants  of  a  densely  settled  farming  vil- 
lage and  its  fields. 

Diverse  social  structures  foster  variety  in  the  relationships  among 
members  of  a  group  and  between  people  and  their  territory. 
Whereas  a  Toubou  or  a  Daza  is  aware  of  her  or  his  clan  identity, 
she  or  he  often  lives  as  an  individual  among  people  of  other  clans. 
Among  seminomadic  Arabs  of  the  Sahel,  people  identify  most 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


closely  with  the  kashimbet,  or  "threshold  of  the  house,"  a  residen- 
tial unit  made  up  of  an  elder  male  or  group  of  males,  their  wives, 
and  descendants.  Although  the  kashimbet  does  not  preclude  mobility, 
people  reside  most  of  the  time  with  their  kin. 

These  three  diversities — scale,  relationships  with  the  environ- 
ment, and  social  links  among  group  members — are  highly  condi- 
tioned by  the  environment  and  the  way  the  society  exploits  it. 
Accordingly,  the  three  major  patterns  of  social  structure  correspond 
closely  with  the  three  major  geographical  regions  of  the  country 
(see  Physical  Setting,  this  ch.). 

The  remainder  of  this  section  examines  a  representative  society 
from  each  region:  the  Toubou  and  Daza  nomads  of  the  Sahara, 
the  Arab  semisedentary  herders  of  the  sahelian  zone,  and  the  Sara 
farmers  of  the  soudanian  region. 

Toubou  and  Daza:  Nomads  of  the  Sahara 

Toubou  and  Daza  life  centers  on  their  livestock  (their  major 
source  of  wealth  and  sustenance)  and  on  the  scattered  oases  where 
they  or  their  herders  cultivate  dates  and  grain.  In  a  few  places, 
the  Toubou  and  Daza  (or  more  often  members  of  the  Haddad  group 
who  work  for  them)  also  mine  salt  and  natron,  a  salt  like  substance 
used  for  medicinal  purposes  and  for  livestock  (see  Mining,  ch.  3). 

The  Toubou  family  is  made  up  of  parents,  children,  and  another 
relative  or  two.  Although  the  husband  or  father  is  the  head  of  the 
household,  he  rarely  makes  decisions  without  consulting  his  wife. 
When  he  is  absent,  his  wife  often  takes  complete  charge,  moving 
family  tents,  changing  pastures,  and  buying  and  selling  cattle. 
Although  Toubou  men  may  have  several  wives,  few  do.  Families 
gather  in  larger  camps  during  the  months  of  transhumance.  Camp 
membership  is  fluid,  sometimes  changing  during  the  season  and 
almost  never  remaining  the  same  from  one  season  to  the  next. 

After  the  family,  the  clan  is  the  most  stable  Toubou  institution. 
Individuals  identify  with  their  clan,  which  has  a  reputed  founder, 
a  name,  a  symbol,  and  associated  taboos.  Clans  enjoy  collective 
priority  use  of  certain  palm  groves,  cultivable  land,  springs,  and 
pastures;  outsiders  may  not  use  these  resources  without  clan  per- 
mission. Social  relations  are  based  on  reciprocity,  hospitality,  and 
assistance.  Theft  and  murder  within  the  clan  are  forbidden,  and 
stolen  animals  must  be  returned. 

Within  the  overall  context  of  clan  identity,  however,  Toubou 
and  Daza  society  is  shaped  by  the  individual.  Jean  Chapelle,  a  well- 
known  observer  of  Chadian  societies,  notes  that  "it  is  not  society 
that  forms  the  individual,  but  the  individual  who  constructs  the 
society  most  useful"  for  him  or  her.  Three  features  of  Toubou 


61 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


social  structure  make  this  process  possible.  The  first  is  residence. 
In  general,  clan  members  are  scattered  throughout  a  region;  there- 
fore, an  individual  is  likely  to  find  hospitable  clans  people  in  most 
settiements  or  camps  of  any  size.  A  second  factor  is  the  maintenance 
of  ties  with  the  maternal  clan.  Although  the  maternal  clan  does 
not  occupy  the  central  place  of  the  paternal  clan,  it  provides  another 
universe  of  potential  ties. 

Marriage  creates  a  third  set  of  individual  options.  Although  rela- 
tives and  the  immediate  family  influence  decisions  about  a  mar- 
riage partner,  individual  preference  is  recognized  as  important. 
In  addition,  once  a  marriage  is  contracted  between  individuals  of 
two  clans,  other  clan  members  are  forbidden  to  change  it.  The 
Toubou  proscribe  marriage  with  any  blood  relative  less  than  four 
generations  removed — in  the  words  of  the  Toubou  recorded  by 
Chapelle,  "when  there  are  only  three  grandfathers." 

The  ownership  of  land,  animals,  and  resources  takes  several 
forms.  Within  an  oasis  or  settled  zone  belonging  to  a  particular 
clan,  land,  trees  (usually  date  palms),  and  nearby  wells  may  have 
different  owners.  Each  family's  rights  to  the  use  of  particular  plots 
of  land  are  recognized  by  other  clan  members.  Families  also  may 
have  privileged  access  to  certain  wells  and  the  right  to  a  part  of 
the  harvest  from  the  fields  irrigated  by  their  water.  Within  the  clan 
and  family  contexts,  individuals  also  may  have  personal  claims  to 
palm  trees  and  animals.  Toubou  legal  customs  are  based  on  resti- 
tution, indemnification,  and  revenge.  Conflicts  are  resolved  in 
several  settings.  Murder,  for  example,  is  settled  directiy  between 
the  families  of  the  victim  and  the  murderer.  Toubou  honor  requires 
that  someone  from  the  victim's  family  try  to  kill  the  murderer  or 
a  relative;  such  efforts  eventually  end  with  negotiations  to  settle 
the  matter.  Reconciliation  follows  the  payment  of  the  goroga,  or 
blood  price,  usually  in  the  form  of  camels. 

Despite  shared  linguistic  heritage,  few  institutions  among  the 
Toubou  and  the  Daza  generate  a  broader  sense  of  identity  than 
the  clan.  Regional  divisions  do  exist,  however.  Among  the  Toubou, 
there  are  four  such  subgroups,  the  Teda  of  Tibesti  Subprefecture 
being  the  largest.  There  are  more  than  a  dozen  subgroups  of  Daza: 
the  Kreda  of  Bahr  el  Ghazal  are  the  largest;  next  in  importance 
are  the  Daza  of  Kanem  Prefecture.  During  the  colonial  period  (and 
since  independence),  Chadian  administrations  have  conferred 
legality  and  legitimacy  on  these  regional  groupings  by  dividing  the 
Toubou  and  Daza  regions  into  corresponding  territorial  units  called 
cantons  and  appointing  chiefs  to  administer  them  (see  Regional 
Government,  ch.  4). 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Only  among  the  Toubou  of  the  Tibesti  region  have  institutions 
evolved  somewhat  differently.  Since  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, the  derde  (spiritual  head)  of  the  Tomagra  clan  has  exercised 
authority  over  part  of  the  massif  and  the  other  clans  who  live  there. 
He  is  selected  by  a  group  of  electors  according  to  strict  rules.  The 
derde  exercises  judicial  rather  than  executive  power,  arbitrating  con- 
flict and  levying  sanctions  based  on  a  code  of  compensations. 

Since  the  beginning  of  the  civil  conflict  in  Chad,  the  derde  has 
come  to  occupy  a  more  important  position.  In  1965  the  Chadian 
government  assumed  direct  authority  over  the  Tibesti  Mountains, 
sending  a  military  garrison  and  administrators  to  Bardai,  the  capi- 
tal of  Tibesti  Subprefecture.  Within  a  year,  abuses  of  authority 
had  roused  considerable  opposition  among  the  Toubou  (see  Tom- 
balbaye's  Governance:  Policies  and  Methods,  ch.  1).  The  derde, 
Oueddei  Kichidemi,  recognized  but  little  respected  up  to  that  time, 
protested  the  excesses,  went  into  exile  in  Libya,  and,  with  the  sup- 
port of  Toubou  students  at  the  Islamic  University  of  Al  Bayda, 
became  a  symbol  of  opposition  to  the  Chadian  government.  This 
role  enhanced  the  position  of  the  derde  among  the  Toubou.  After 
1967  the  derde  hoped  to  rally  the  Toubou  to  the  National  Libera- 
tion Front  of  Chad  (Front  de  Liberation  Nationale  du  Tchad — 
FROLINAT).  Moral  authority  became  military  authority  shortly 
thereafter  when  his  son,  Goukouni  Oueddei,  became  one  of  the 
leaders  of  the  Second  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT.  Goukouni 
has  since  become  a  national  figure;  he  played  an  important  role 
in  the  battles  of  N'Djamena  in  1979  and  1980  and  served  as  head 
of  state  for  a  time.  Another  northerner,  Hissein  Habre  of  the  Daza 
Annakaza,  replaced  Goukouni  in  1982. 

Arabs:  Semisedentary  Peoples  of  the  Sahel 

The  Arabs  of  Chad  are  semisedentary  (or  seminomadic)  peo- 
ples who  herd  their  camels,  horses,  cattle,  goats,  and  sheep  on  the 
plains  of  the  Sahel.  Except  in  the  extreme  north,  they  live  among 
sedentary  peoples,  and  in  the  region  around  N'Djamena  some 
Arabs  have  adopted  a  more  setded  existence.  In  the  rainy  season, 
Arab  groups  spread  out  through  the  region;  in  the  dry  season,  they 
live  a  more  settled  existence,  usually  on  the  dormant  agricultural 
lands  of  their  sedentary  neighbors.  They  leave  the  far  north  to  the 
Toubou,  avoid  the  mountains  of  Ouaddai  and  Guera  prefectures, 
and  move  south  of  10°  north  latitude  only  in  times  of  extreme 
drought. 

The  Arabs  were  not  state  builders  in  Chad,  a  role  played  instead 
by  the  Maba  in  Wadai,  the  Barma  in  Bagirmi,  and  the  Kanembu 
in  Kanem-Borno  (see  Era  of  Empires,  A.D.  900-1900,  ch.  1).  The 


63 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Arabs  exercised  great  influence  over  all  three  empires,  however, 
either  by  conquest  (in  the  case  of  Wadai)  or  by  converting  their 
rulers  to  Islam  (in  the  cases  of  Bagirmi  and  Kanem).  As  with 
nomads  and  seminomads  elsewhere,  the  possession  of  camels  and 
horses  translated  into  military  potential  that  commanded  the  respect 
of  the  settied  states.  For  example,  the  Awlad  Sulayman  of  Kanem, 
despite  their  small  numbers,  gained  fame  and  fortune  during  the 
second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  by  playing  the  increasingly 
aggressive  empire  of  Wadai  against  weaker  Kanem-Borno.  In  the 
decade  after  1900,  they  used  the  same  tactic  to  enhance  and  enrich 
themselves  at  the  expense  of  the  French  and  the  Sanusiyya,  a  Mus- 
lim religious  order  of  Libyan  origin  with  political  and  economic 
interests  in  the  Lake  Chad  Basin. 

Chadian  Arabs  are  divided  into  three  "tribes":  the  Juhayna, 
the  Hassuna,  and  the  Awlad  Sulayman.  Members  of  each  tribe 
believe  themselves  to  be  descended  from  a  common  ancestor. 
Among  the  smaller  social  units,  belief  in  a  shared  genealogy  (rather 
than  common  residence  or  a  common  faith)  provides  a  major  ideo- 
logical rationale  for  joint  action. 

As  is  true  for  the  Toubou,  the  basic  Arab  social  unit  is  the  kashim- 
bet,  2l  minimal  lineage  made  up  of  several  generations  of  men,  their 
wives,  and  children  or  grandchildren  reckoned  through  the  male 
line.  Members  of  the  same  kashimbet  live  near  each  other  and  more 
or  less  follow  the  same  route  during  migration.  Each  kashimbet  is 
headed  by  an  elder  male,  or  shaykh.  This  aspect  of  the  social  struc- 
ture is  visible  in  the  disposition  of  tents  (or  houses  among  the  more 
sedentary  Arabs  of  N'Djamena).  The  residence  of  the  shaykh  is 
often  at  the  center  of  the  camp  or  settlement,  with  the  woven  straw 
tents  or  adobe  houses  of  his  relatives  arrayed  around  it  in  concen- 
tric circles.  The  area  is  surrounded  by  a  fence  or  some  other  bound- 
ary that  defines  the  zariba,  or  walled  camp.  Within  the  kashimbet, 
loyalty  is  generally  intense,  institutionalized  relationships  being  rein- 
forced by  bonds  of  common  residence  and  personal  acquaintance. 

Kinship  bonds  also  provide  the  ideological  basis  for  broader  units. 
Led  by  the  head  of  the  senior  lineage,  who  is  more  a  "first  among 
equals"  than  a  chief,  the  shaykhs  of  neighboring  kashimbets  some- 
times meet  to  decide  matters  of  common  interest,  such  as  the  date 
of  the  annual  migration.  The  shaykhs'  leader,  or  lawan,  may  also 
deal  with  outsiders  on  their  behalf.  He  concludes  contracts  with 
farmers  to  allow  Arabs  to  pass  the  dry  season  on  agricultural  lands 
and  levies  tribute  on  strangers  who  wish  to  use  the  group's  pastures 
and  wells. 

Unlike  what  is  found  in  Toubou  society,  marriage  among  the 
Arabs  strengthens  kinship  ties.  First,  marriage  is  more  a  family 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


than  an  individual  concern;  senior  males  from  each  family  make 
initial  contacts  and  eventually  negotiate  the  marriage  contract.  An 
ideal  union  reinforces  the  social,  moral,  and  material  position  of 
the  group.  Second,  parallel  cousin  marriage  (that  is,  union  between 
the  children  of  brothers  or  male  relatives  more  removed),  is 
preferred.  This  custom  encourages  the  duplication  of  bonds  within 
the  group  rather  than  the  creation  of  a  far-flung  network  of  more 
tenuous,  individual  alliances,  as  occurs  among  the  Toubou.  Finally, 
the  marriage  ceremony  is  itself  a  community  affair.  Among  the 
Toubou,  marriage  is  associated  with  the  feigned  "stealing"  of  the 
bride  from  her  family,  whose  members  respond  with  grief  and 
anger,  but  marriage  among  the  Arabs  is  an  expression  of  solidarity. 
The  ceremony  is  celebrated  by  a  faqih  (Muslim  religious  leader), 
and  a  joyous  procession  of  neighbors,  relatives,  and  friends  escorts 
the  bride  to  the  house  of  her  husband. 

Despite  their  wide  distribution  and  numerous  contacts  with 
sedentary  peoples,  Arabs  have  never  played  a  preponderant  role 
in  Chadian  affairs.  During  the  colonial  period,  they  resisted  the 
French,  who  attempted  to  impose  a  territorially  defined  adminis- 
tration but  who  ultimately  governed  through  the  Arabs'  kin-based 
social  structures.  This  inability  of  the  colonial  authorities  to  pene- 
trate and  change  Arab  social  and  political  institutions  allowed  the 
Arabs  to  resist  Western  education  and  employment  in  the  emerg- 
ing capitalist  economy.  Their  pastoral  life-style  also  saved  them 
from  the  forced  cultivation  of  commercial  crops  that  so  disrupted 
the  societies  of  their  sedentary  neighbors. 

Since  independence  the  Arabs  have  remained  on  the  margins 
of  Chadian  national  life.  The  government,  dominated  by  southern- 
ers, suspected  the  Arabs  of  a  major  role  in  the  civil  strife  of  the 
late  1960s.  In  the  Sahel,  however,  settled  non-Arab  peoples  (such 
as  the  Moubi  and  Hajerai  of  Guera  Prefecture)  have  played  a  much 
more  important  role  in  resisting  central  power.  Although  it  is  true 
that  the  Arabs  have  opposed  the  government  at  times,  they  also 
have  rallied  to  it.  Such  a  pattern  suggests  that  the  Arabs  have  fol- 
lowed their  time-honored  prescription  of  keeping  the  state  off 
balance  to  ensure  maximum  freedom  of  action. 

Sara:  Sedentary  Peoples  of  the  Soudanian  Zone 

The  essential  social  unit  of  Sara  society  is  the  lineage.  Called 
the  qir  ka  among  the  eastern  Sara,  qin  ka  among  those  of  the  center, 
and  qel  ka  among  the  western  subgroups,  the  term  actually  refers 
to  the  male  ancestor  from  whom  members  of  the  lineage  believe 
they  descend.  Within  the  context  of  the  qir  ka,  an  individual  iden- 
tifies patrilineally.  Legal  identity  and  rights  to  land  are  determined 


65 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

by  membership  in  the  patrilineage.  The  mother's  lineage,  however, 
is  not  disregarded;  it  may  offer  shelter  and  support,  when  the 
individual  is  cut  off  from  the  paternal  lineage,  or  benefit  from  cer- 
tain kinds  of  labor  obligations. 

Although  the  basic  social  group  is  the  lineage,  the  basic  residen- 
tial unit  is  the  village.  In  general,  local  government  takes  two  forms. 
If  the  villagers  all  belong  to  the  same  lineage,  the  village  is  governed 
by  lineage  institutions  whereby  the  elders  make  important  deci- 
sions, preside  over  important  cultural  rites  (such  as  manhood  initia- 
tion), and  play  an  important  role  in  agricultural  rituals.  If  villagers 
are  divided  among  several  lineages,  however,  elders  from  the  differ- 
ent groups  may  meet  together  to  resolve  common  problems.  In 
such  encounters,  elders  of  the  lineage  that  first  settled  the  territory 
preside  as  "first  among  equals." 

During  the  colonial  era,  the  French  superimposed  a  territorially 
based  administration  over  precolonial  Sara  social  and  political 
institutions.  On  the  local  level,  this  took  the  form  of  the  canton 
(or  county).  The  canton  was  headed  by  a  chief  named  by  the  cen- 
tral government,  who  in  turn  named  "village  chiefs."  Although 
candidates  for  such  positions  existed  among  the  traditional  Sara 
authorities,  the  French  generally  preferred  to  appoint  collabora- 
tors who  had  no  independent  base  of  support.  Apart  from  creat- 
ing new  political  structures,  the  French  also  sought  to  reorganize 
Sara  society  spatially.  They  forced  people  to  regroup  in  more  com- 
pact villages  along  roads,  causing  lineages  to  abandon  traditional 
lands.  Despite  considerable  initial  resistance,  the  colonial  adminis- 
tration eventually  succeeded  in  imposing  these  new  settlement  pat- 
terns and  new  chiefs,  thus  undermining  Sara  political  and  social 
structures.  Since  independence,  efforts  by  the  Chadian  government 
to  centralize  authority  have  continued.  Nonetheless,  Sara  institu- 
tions have  retained  influence,  and  the  Sara  have  added  new  struc- 
tures to  reinforce  Sara  solidarity. 

Religion 

The  separation  of  religion  from  social  structure  in  Chad 
represents  a  false  dichotomy,  for  they  are  perceived  as  two  sides 
of  the  same  coin.  Three  religious  traditions  coexist  in  Chad — 
classical  African  religions,  Islam,  and  Christianity.  None  is 
monolithic.  The  first  tradition  includes  a  variety  of  ancestor  and/or 
place-oriented  religions  whose  expression  is  highly  specific.  Islam, 
although  characterized  by  an  orthodox  set  of  beliefs  and  obser- 
vances, also  is  expressed  in  diverse  ways.  Christianity  arrived  in 
Chad  much  more  recently  with  the  arrival  of  Europeans.  Its  fol- 
lowers are  divided  into  Roman  Catholics  and  Protestants  (including 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


several  denominations);  as  with  Chadian  Islam,  Chadian  Chris- 
tianity retains  aspects  of  pre-Christian  religious  belief. 

The  number  of  followers  of  each  tradition  in  Chad  is  unknown. 
Estimates  made  in  1962  suggested  that  35  percent  of  Chadians  prac- 
ticed classical  African  religions,  55  percent  were  Muslims,  and 
10  percent  were  Christians.  In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  this  distribu- 
tion undoubtedly  changed.  Observers  report  that  Islam  has  spread 
among  the  Hajerai  and  among  other  non-Muslim  populations  of 
the  Saharan  and  sahelian  zones.  However,  the  proportion  of  Mus- 
lims may  have  fallen  because  the  birthrate  among  the  followers  of 
classical  religions  and  Christians  in  southern  Chad  is  thought  to 
be  higher  than  that  among  Muslims.  In  addition,  the  upheavals 
since  the  mid-1970s  have  resulted  in  the  departure  of  some  mis- 
sionaries; whether  or  not  Chadian  Christians  have  been  numer- 
ous enough  and  organized  enough  to  have  attracted  more  converts 
since  that  time  is  unknown. 

Classical  African  Religions 

Classical  African  religions  regard  the  world  as  a  product  of  a 
complex  system  of  relationships  among  people,  living  and  dead, 
and  animals,  plants,  and  natural  and  supernatural  phenomena. 
This  religious  tradition  is  often  called  "animism"  because  of  its 
central  premise  that  all  things  are  "animated"  by  life  forces.  The 
relationships  among  all  things  are  ordered  and  often  hierarchical. 
Human  societies  reflect  this  order,  and  human  survival  and  suc- 
cess require  that  it  be  maintained.  Antisocial  acts  or  bad  luck  sig- 
nal that  this  harmony  has  been  upset,  leading  to  efforts  to  restore 
it  through  ritual  acts,  such  as  prayers,  sacrifices,  libations,  com- 
munions, dances,  and  symbolic  struggles.  Such  intervention,  it  is 
believed,  helps  ward  off  the  chaos  that  adversely  affects  people  and 
their  souls,  families  and  communities,  and  crops  and  harvests. 

Ancestors  play  an  important  role  in  Chadian  classical  religions. 
They  are  thought  to  span  the  gap  between  the  supernatural  and 
natural  worlds.  They  connect  these  two  worlds  specifically  by  linking 
living  lineage  members  with  their  earliest  forebears.  Because  of  their 
proximity,  and  because  they  once  walked  among  the  living,  ances- 
tors are  prone  to  intervene  in  daily  affairs.  This  intervention  is  par- 
ticularly likely  in  the  case  of  the  recentiy  deceased,  who  are  thought 
to  spend  weeks  or  months  in  limbo  between  the  living  and  the  dead. 
Many  religious  observances  include  special  rituals  to  propitiate  these 
spirits,  encourage  them  to  take  their  leave  with  serenity,  and  restore 
the  social  order  their  deaths  have  disrupted. 

Spirits  are  also  numerous.  These  invisible  beings  inhabit  a  parallel 
world  and  sometimes  reside  in  particular  places  or  are  associated 


67 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


with  particular  natural  phenomena.  Among  the  Mbaye,  a  Sara  sub- 
group, water  and  lightning  spirits  are  thought  to  bring  violent  death 
and  influence  other  spirits  to  intervene  in  daily  life.  The  sun  spirit, 
capable  of  rendering  service  or  causing  harm,  also  must  be  propiti- 
ated. Spirits  may  live  in  family  groups  with  spouses  and  children. 
They  are  also  capable  of  taking  human,  animal,  or  plant  forms 
when  they  appear  among  the  living. 

The  supernatural  powers  that  control  natural  events  are  also  of 
major  concern.  Among  farming  peoples,  rituals  to  propitiate  such 
powers  are  associated  with  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  agricul- 
tural cycle.  Among  the  Sara,  the  new  year  begins  with  the  appear- 
ance of  the  first  new  moon  following  the  harvest.  The  next  day, 
people  hunt  with  nets  and  fire,  offering  the  catch  to  ancestors. 
Libations  are  offered  to  ancestors,  and  the  first  meal  from  the  new 
harvest  is  consumed. 

Among  the  more  centralized  societies  of  Chad,  the  ruler  fre- 
quently is  associated  with  divine  power.  Poised  at  the  apex  of  soci- 
ety, he  or  (more  rarely)  she  is  responsible  for  good  relations  with 
the  supernatural  forces  that  sanction  and  maintain  the  social  order. 
For  example,  among  the  Moundang,  the  gon  lere  of  Lere  is  respon- 
sible for  relations  with  the  sky  spirits.  And  among  the  Sara  Madjin- 
gay,  the  mbang  (chief)  of  the  village  of  Bedaya  controls  religious 
rituals  that  preserve  and  renew  the  social  order.  Even  after  the  com- 
ing of  Islam,  the  symbols  of  such  authority  reinforced  the  rulers 
of  nominally  Islamic  states  such  as  Wadai,  Kanem-Borno,  and 
Bagirmi. 

Finally,  most  classical  African  religions  involve  belief  in  a 
supreme  being  who  created  the  world  and  its  inhabitants  but  who 
then  retired  from  active  intervention  in  human  affairs.  As  a  result, 
shrines  to  a  high  god  are  uncommon,  and  people  tend  to  appeal 
to  the  lesser  spirits;  yet  the  notion  of  a  supreme  being  may  have 
helped  the  spread  of  Christianity.  When  missionaries  arrived  in 
southern  Chad,  they  often  used  the  local  name  of  this  high  god 
to  refer  to  the  Christian  supreme  being.  Thus,  although  a  much 
more  interventionist  spirit,  the  Christian  god  was  recognizable  to 
the  people.  This  recognition  probably  facilitated  conversion,  but 
it  may  also  have  ironically  encouraged  syncretism  (the  mixing  of 
religious  traditions),  a  practice  disturbing  to  many  missionaries  and 
to  Protestants  in  particular.  Followers  of  classical  African  religions 
would  probably  not  perceive  any  necessary  contradiction  between 
accepting  the  Christian  god  and  continuing  to  believe  in  the  spirits 
just  described. 

Because  order  is  thought  to  be  the  natural,  desirable  state, 
disorder  is  not  happenstance.  Classical  African  religions  devote 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


considerable  energy  to  the  maintenance  of  order  and  the  determi- 
nation of  who  or  what  is  responsible  for  disorder.  In  the  case  of 
illness,  for  example,  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  to  ascertain 
which  spirit  or  which  person  is  responsible  for  undermining  the 
natural  order;  only  then  is  it  possible  to  prescribe  a  remedy.  In 
such  circumstances,  people  frequently  take  their  cases  to  ritual 
specialists,  who  divine  the  threats  to  harmony  and  recommend 
appropriate  action.  Such  specialists  share  their  knowledge  only  with 
peers.  Indeed,  they  themselves  have  probably  acquired  such 
knowledge  incrementally  as  they  made  their  way  through  elaborate 
apprenticeships. 

Although  classical  African  religions  provide  institutionalized  ways 
of  maintaining  or  restoring  community  solidarity,  they  also  allow 
individuals  to  influence  the  cosmic  order  to  advance  their  own  inter- 
ests. Magic  and  sorcery  both  serve  this  end.  From  society's  stand- 
point, magic  is  positive  or  neutral.  On  the  one  hand,  magicians 
try  to  influence  life  forces  to  alter  the  physical  world,  perhaps  to 
bring  good  fortune  or  a  return  to  health.  Sorcerers,  on  the  other 
hand,  are  antisocial,  using  sorcery  (or  '  'black  magic")  to  control 
or  consume  the  vital  force  of  others.  Unlike  magicians,  whose  iden- 
tity is  generally  known,  sorcerers  hide  their  supernatural  powers, 
practicing  their  nefarious  rites  in  secret.  When  misfortune  occurs, 
people  often  suspect  that  sorcery  is  at  the  root  of  their  troubles. 
They  seek  counsel  from  diviners  or  magicians  to  identify  the  respon- 
sible party  and  ways  to  rectify  the  situation;  if  the  disruption  is 
deemed  to  threaten  everyone,  leaders  may  act  on  behalf  of  the  com- 
munity at  large.  If  discovered,  sorcerers  are  punished. 

The  survival  of  any  society  requires  that  knowledge  be  passed 
from  one  generation  to  another.  In  many  Chadian  societies,  this 
transmission  is  marked  by  ritual.  Knowledge  of  the  world  and  its 
forces  is  limited  to  adults;  among  the  predominantly  patrilineal 
societies  of  Chad,  it  is  further  limited  to  men  in  particular.  Rituals 
often  mark  the  transition  from  childhood  to  adulthood.  However, 
they  actively  "transform"  children  into  adults,  teaching  them  what 
adults  must  know  to  assume  societal  responsibilities. 

Although  such  rites  differ  among  societies,  the  Sarajw/zfifo  may 
serve  as  a  model  of  male  initiation  ceremonies  found  in  Chad.  The 
yondo  takes  place  at  a  limited  number  of  sites  every  six  or  seven 
years.  Boys  from  different  villages,  usually  accompanied  by  an  elder, 
gather  for  the  rites,  which,  before  the  advent  of  Western  educa- 
tion with  its  nine-month  academic  calendar,  lasted  several  months. 
In  recent  decades,  the  yondo  has  been  limited  to  several  weeks 
between  academic  years. 


69 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

The  yondo  and  its  counterparts  among  other  Chadian  societies 
reinforce  male  bonds  and  m%e  authority.  Women  are  not  allowed 
to  witness  the  rite.  Their  initiated  sons  and  brothers  no  longer  eat 
with  them  and  go  to  live  in  separate  houses.  Although  rites  also 
mark  the  transition  to  womanhood  in  many  Chadian  societies,  such 
ceremonies  are  much  shorter.  Rather  than  encouraging  girls  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  larger  society,  they  stress  household  responsibilities 
and  deference  to  male  authority. 

Islam 

Tenets  of  Islam 

"Islam"  means  submission  to  the  will  of  God,  and  a  Muslim 
is  one  who  submits.  In  A.D.  610,  Muhammad,  an  Arabian  mer- 
chant of  Mecca,  revealed  the  first  in  a  series  of  revelations  granted 
him  by  God  (Allah,  in  Arabic)  through  the  archangel  Gabriel.  Later 
known  simply  as  the  Prophet,  Muhammad  denounced  the  poly- 
theism of  his  fellow  Meccans  and  preached  a  new  order  that  would 
reinforce  community  solidarity.  His  censure  of  the  emerging  indi- 
vidualistic, mercantile  society  in  Mecca  eventually  provoked  a  split 
in  the  community.  In  A.D.  622,  Muhammad  and  his  followers  fled 
northwest  to  Yathrib,  a  settlement  that  has  since  come  to  be  known 
simply  as  Medina,  or  "the  city."  This  journey  (called  the  hijra, 
or  the  flight)  marks  the  beginning  of  the  Islamic  Era.  The  Muslim 
lunar  calendar  begins  with  this  event,  so  that  its  year  1  corresponds 
to  A.D.  622.  (However,  the  solar  and  Muslim  calendars  are  sepa- 
rated by  more  than  622  years;  a  lunar  year  has  an  average  of  354 
days  and  thus  is  considerably  shorter  than  the  365-day  solar  year.) 
In  Medina,  the  Prophet  continued  his  preaching.  Eventually  defeat- 
ing his  detractors  in  battle,  Muhammad  became  the  temporal  and 
spiritual  leader  of  most  of  Arabia  by  the  time  of  his  death  in 
A.D.  632. 

In  the  decades  after  his  death,  Muhammad's  followers  collected 
his  revelations  into  a  single  book  of  recitations  called  the  Quran. 
During  the  same  period,  some  of  his  close  associates  collected  and 
codified  the  Prophet's  sayings,  as  well  as  accounts  of  his  behavior, 
to  serve  as  guides  for  future  generations.  These  compilations  are 
called  the  hadith,  or  "sayings,"  which,  along  with  the  Quran,  are 
central  to  Islamic  jurisprudence. 

The  shahada  (or  profession  of  faith)  states  the  central  belief  of 
Islam:  "There  is  no  god  but  God  (Allah),  and  Muhammad  is  his 
Prophet."  This  simple  testimony  is  repeated  on  many  ritual  occa- 
sions. When  recited  with  conviction,  it  signals  conversion. 


70 


Muslim  children  at  a  Quranic  school 
Courtesy  United  Nations 

The  duties  of  a  Muslim  form  the  five  pillars  of  the  faith.  These 
are  recitation  of  the  shahada,  daily  prayer  (salat),  almsgiving  (zakat), 
fasting  (sawm),  and,  if  possible,  making  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca 
(hajj). 

Islam  in  Chad 

Islam  became  a  dynamic  political  and  military  force  in  the  Middle 
East  in  the  decades  immediately  following  Muhammad's  death. 
By  the  late  seventh  century  A.D. ,  Muslim  conquerors  had  reached 
North  Africa  and  moved  south  into  the  desert.  Although  it  is  difficult 
to  date  the  arrival  and  spread  of  Islam  in  Chad,  by  the  time  Arab 
migrants  began  arriving  from  the  east  in  the  fourteenth  century, 
the  faith  was  already  widespread.  Instead  of  being  the  product  of 
conquest  or  the  imposition  of  political  power,  Islamization  in  Chad 
was  gradual,  the  effect  of  the  slow  spread  of  Islamic  civilization 
beyond  its  political  frontiers. 

Islam  in  Chad  has  adapted  to  its  local  context  in  many  ways. 
For  one  thing,  despite  the  presence  of  a  large  number  of  Arabs, 
Arabic  is  not  the  maternal  language  of  the  majority  of  Chadian 
Muslims.  As  a  result,  although  many  Chadian  Muslims  have 
attended  Quranic  schools,  they  often  have  learned  to  recite  Quranic 
verses  without  understanding  their  meaning.  Hence,  perhaps  even 
more  than  among  those  who  understand  Arabic,  the  recitation  of 


71 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

verse  has  taken  on  a  mystical  character  among  Chadian  Muslims. 
Islam  in  Chad  also  is  syncretic.  Chadian  Muslims  have  retained 
and  combined  pre-Islamic  with  Islamic  rituals  and  beliefs.  More- 
over, Islam  in  Chad  was  not  particularly  influenced  by  the  great 
mystical  movements  of  the  Islamic  Middle  Ages  or  the  fundamen- 
talist upheavals  that  affected  the  faith  in  the  Middle  East,  West 
Africa,  and  Sudan.  Beginning  in  the  Middle  East  in  the  thirteenth 
century,  Muslim  mystics  sought  to  complement  the  intellectual  com- 
prehension of  Islam  with  direct  religious  experience  through  prayer, 
contemplation,  and  action.  The  followers  of  these  mystics  founded 
brotherhoods  (turuq;  sing.,  tariqa),  which  institutionalized  their 
teachers'  interpretations  of  the  faith.  Such  organizations  stimulated 
the  spread  of  Islam  and  also  provided  opportunities  for  joint  action, 
for  the  most  part,  which  was  not  the  case  in  Chad,  where  only  two 
brotherhoods  exist.  Perhaps  as  a  result  of  prolonged  contact  with 
West  African  Muslim  traders  and  pilgrims,  most  Chadian  Mus- 
lims identify  with  the  Tijaniyya  order,  but  the  brotherhood  has 
not  served  as  a  rallying  point  for  unified  action.  Similarly,  the 
Sanusiyya,  a  brotherhood  founded  in  Libya  in  the  mid-nineteenth 
century,  enjoyed  substantial  economic  and  political  influence  in 
the  Lake  Chad  Basin  around  1900.  Despite  French  fears  of  an 
Islamic  revival  movement  led  by  "Sanusi  fanatics,"  Chadian 
adherents,  limited  to  the  Awlad  Sulayman  Arabs  and  the  Toubou 
of  eastern  Tibesti,  have  never  been  numerous. 

Chapelle  writes  that  even  though  Chadian  Islam  adheres  to  the 
Maliki  legal  school  (which,  like  the  other  three  accepted  schools 
of  Islamic  jurisprudence,  is  based  on  an  extensive  legal  literature), 
most  Islamic  education  relies  solely  on  the  Quran.  Higher  Islamic 
education  in  Chad  is  all  but  nonexistent;  thus,  serious  Islamic  stu- 
dents and  scholars  must  go  abroad.  Popular  destinations  include 
Khartoum  and  Cairo,  where  numerous  Chadians  attend  Al  Azhar, 
the  most  renowned  university  in  the  Islamic  world. 

Chadian  observance  of  the  five  pillars  of  the  faith  differs  some- 
what from  the  orthodox  tradition.  For  example,  public  and  com- 
munal prayer  occurs  more  often  than  the  prescribed  one  time  each 
week  but  often  does  not  take  place  in  a  mosque.  Moreover,  Chadian 
Muslims  probably  make  the  pilgrimage  less  often  than,  for  exam- 
ple, their  Hausa  counterparts  in  northern  Nigeria.  As  for  the 
Ramadan  fast,  the  most  fervent  Muslims  in  Chad  refuse  to  swal- 
low their  saliva  during  the  day,  a  particularly  stern  interpretation 
of  the  injunction  against  eating  or  drinking  between  sunrise  and 
sunset. 

Finally,  Chadian  Islam  is  not  particularly  militant.  Even  if  young 
Muslims  in  urban  areas  are  aware  of  happenings  in  other  parts 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

of  the  Islamic  world,  they  have  not  responded  to  fundamentalist 
appeals. 

Christianity 

Christianity  arrived  in  Chad  in  the  twentieth  century,  shortly 
after  the  colonial  conquest.  Contrary  to  the  dominant  pattern  in 
some  other  parts  of  Africa,  however,  where  the  colonial  powers 
encouraged  the  spread  of  the  faith,  the  earliest  French  officials  in 
Chad  advised  against  it.  This  recommendation,  however,  proba- 
bly reflected  European  paternalism  and  favoritism  toward  Islam 
rather  than  a  display  of  liberalism.  In  any  case,  the  French  mili- 
tary administration  followed  such  counsel  for  the  first  two  decades 
of  the  century,  the  time  it  took  to  conquer  the  new  colony  and  estab- 
lish control  over  its  people.  Following  World  War  I,  however,  offi- 
cial opposition  to  Christianity  softened,  and  the  government 
tolerated  but  did  not  sponsor  missionaries. 

Since  World  War  II,  Chadian  Christians  have  had  a  far  greater 
influence  on  Chadian  life  than  their  limited  numbers  suggest.  The 
missions  spread  the  ideology  of  Westernization — the  notion  that 
progress  depended  on  following  European  models  of  development. 
Even  more  specifically,  Roman  Catholic  mission  education  spread 
the  French  language.  Ironically,  even  though  Islam  spread  more 
quickly  and  more  widely  than  Christianity,  Christians  controlled 
the  government  that  inherited  power  from  the  French.  These  leaders 
imparted  a  Western  orientation  that  continued  to  dominate  in  the 
1980s. 

Protestantism  in  Chad 

The  Protestants  came  to  southern  Chad  in  the  1920s.  American 
Baptists  were  the  first,  but  missionaries  of  other  denominations  and 
nationalities  soon  followed.  Many  of  the  American  missions  were 
northern  offshoots  of  missionary  networks  founded  farther  south 
in  the  Ubangi-Chari  colony  (now  Central  African  Republic)  of 
French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique  Equatoriale  Franchise — AEF; 
ses  Glossary).  The  organizational  ties  between  the  missions  in 
southern  Chad  and  Ubangi-Chari  were  strengthened  by  France's 
decision  in  1925  to  transfer  Logone  Occidental,  Tandjile,  Logone 
Oriental,  and  Moyen-Chari  prefectures  to  Ubangi-Chari,  where 
they  remained  until  another  administrative  shuffle  restored  them 
to  Chad  in  1932. 

These  early  Protestant  establishments  looked  to  their  own 
churches  for  material  resources  and  to  their  own  countries  for  diplo- 
matic support.  Such  independence  allowed  them  to  maintain  a  dis- 
tance from  the  French  colonial  administration.  In  addition,  the 


73 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

missionaries  arrived  with  their  wives  and  children,  and  they  often 
spent  their  entire  lives  in  the  region.  This  family-based  expansion 
of  the  missionary  networks  was  not  peculiar  to  Chad  in  the  1920s. 
Some  of  the  missionaries  who  arrived  at  that  time  had  grown  up 
with  missionary  parents  in  missions  founded  earlier  in  the  French 
colonies  to  the  south.  Some  missionary  children  from  this  era  later 
founded  missions  of  their  own.  Many  remained  after  independence, 
leaving  only  in  the  early  and  or  mid-1970s  when  Tombalbaye's 
authenticity  movement  forced  their  departure  (see  Fall  of  the  Tom- 
balbaye  Government,  ch.  1). 

The  puritanical  message  preached  by  many  Protestant  mission- 
aries undermined  the  appeal  of  the  faith.  Rather  than  allowing  a 
local  Christian  tradition  to  develop,  the  missionaries  preached  a 
fundamentalist  doctrine  native  to  parts  of  the  United  States.  They 
inveighed  against  dancing,  alcohol,  and  local  customs,  which  they 
considered  "superstitions."  New  converts  found  it  almost  impos- 
sible to  observe  Protestant  teachings  and  remain  within  their  com- 
munities. In  the  early  years,  Chadian  Protestants  often  left  their 
villages  and  settled  around  the  missions.  But  abandoning  village 
and  family  was  a  sacrifice  that  most  people  were  reluctant  to  make. 

Although  language  and  doctrine  probably  discouraged  conver- 
sion, the  educational  and  medical  projects  of  the  Protestant  mis- 
sions probably  attracted  people.  The  missionaries  set  up  schools, 
clinics,  and  hospitals  long  before  the  colonial  administration  did. 
In  fact,  the  mission  schools  produced  the  first  Western-educated 
Chadians  in  the  1940s  and  1950s.  In  general,  the  Protestant  mis- 
sionary effort  in  southern  Chad  has  enjoyed  some  success.  In  1980, 
after  a  half-century  of  evangelization,  Protestants  in  southern  Chad 
numbered  about  80,000. 

From  bases  in  the  south,  Protestants  founded  missions  in  other 
parts  of  Chad.  For  the  most  part,  they  avoided  setding  among  Mus- 
lims, who  were  not  responsive  to  their  message.  In  the  colonial  capi- 
tal of  Fort-Lamy  (present-day  N'Djamena),  the  missions  attracted 
followers  among  resident  southerners.  The  missionaries  also  prosely- 
tized among  the  non-Muslim  populations  of  Guera,  Ouaddai,  and 
Biltine  prefectures.  Although  Christianity  appealed  to  some  in  the 
capital  (there  were  estimated  to  be  18,000  Christians  in  N'Djamena 
in  1980),  efforts  in  other  parts  of  the  Sahel  were  relatively  unsuc- 
cessful. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  future  of  the  Protestant  missions  in  Chad 
remained  unclear.  As  noted,  many  Protestant  missionaries  were 
forced  to  leave  the  country  during  the  cultural  revolution  in  the 
early  and  mid-1970s.  Outside  the  south,  other  missions  have  been 
caught  in  the  cross  fire  of  warring  factions.  Rebel  forces  have 


74 


The  Roman  Catholic  cathedral  in  N'Djamena,  which  was  rebuilt  in  the 

1980s  following  severe  war  damage 
Courtesy  Audrey  Kizziar 

pillaged  mission  stations,  and  the  government  has  accused  the  mis- 
sionaries of  complicity  with  the  opposition. 

Roman  Catholicism  in  Chad 

The  Roman  Catholic  missions  came  to  Chad  later  than  their  Prot- 
estant counterparts.  Isolated  efforts  began  as  early  as  1929  when 
The  Holy  Ghost  Fathers  from  Bangui  founded  a  mission  at  Kou, 
near  Moundou  in  Logone  Occidental  Prefecture.  In  1934,  in  the 
midst  of  the  sleeping  sickness  epidemic,  they  abandoned  Kou  for 
Doba  in  Logone  Oriental  Prefecture.  Other  priests  from  Ubangi- 
Chari  and  Cameroon  opened  missions  in  Kelo  and  Sarh  in  1935 
and  1939,  respectively. 

In  1946  these  autonomous  missions  gave  way  to  an  institution- 
alized Roman  Catholic  presence.  This  late  date  had  more  to  do 
with  European  politics  than  with  events  in  Chad.  Earlier  in  the 
century,  the  Vatican  had  designated  the  Chad  region  to  be  part 
of  the  Italian  vicarate  of  Khartoum.  Rather  than  risk  the  implan- 
tation of  Italian  missionaries  during  the  era  of  Italian  dictator  Benito 
Mussolini,  the  French  administration  discouraged  all  Roman 
Catholic  missionary  activity.  For  its  part,  the  Vatican  adopted  the 
same  tactic,  not  wishing  to  upset  the  Italian  regime  by  transfer- 
ring jurisdiction  of  the  Chad  region  to  the  French.  As  a  consequence 


75 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

of  their  defeat  in  World  War  II,  however,  the  Italians  lost  their 
African  colonies.  This  loss  cleared  the  way  for  a  French  Roman 
Catholic  presence  in  Chad,  which  a  decree  from  Rome  formalized 
on  March  22,  1946. 

This  decree  set  up  three  religious  jurisdictions  that  eventually 
became  four  bishoprics.  The  first,  administered  by  the  Jesuits,  had 
its  seat  in  N'Djamena.  Although  its  jurisdiction  included  the  eight 
prefectures  in  the  northern  and  eastern  parts  of  the  country,  almost 
all  the  Roman  Catholics  in  sahelian  and  Saharan  Chad  lived  in  the 
capital.  The  diocese  of  N'Djamena  also  served  as  the  archdiocese 
of  all  Chad.  The  second  bishopric,  at  Sarh,  also  was  delegated  to 
the  Jesuits.  Its  region  included  Salamat  and  Moyen-Chari  prefec- 
tures. The  third  and  fourth  jurisdictions  had  their  headquarters 
in  Pala  and  Moundou  and  were  delegated  to  the  Oblats  de  Marie 
and  Capuchin  orders.  The  Pala  bishopric  served  Mayo-Kebbi 
Prefecture,  while  the  bishopric  of  Moundou  was  responsible  for 
missions  in  Logone  Occidental  and  Logone  Oriental  prefectures. 
By  far  the  most  important  jurisdiction  in  1970,  Pala  included 
116,000  of  Chad's  160,000  Catholics. 

The  relatively  slow  progress  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in 
Chad  has  several  causes.  Although  Roman  Catholicism  has  been 
much  more  open  to  local  cultures  than  Protestantism,  the  doctrine 
of  celibacy  probably  has  deterred  candidates  for  the  priesthood. 
Insistence  on  monogamy  also  has  undoubtedly  made  the  faith  less 
attractive  to  some  potential  converts,  particularly  wealthy  older  men 
able  to  afford  more  than  one  wife. 

The  social  works  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  have  made  it 
an  important  institution  in  Chad.  Like  their  Protestant  counter- 
parts, the  Roman  Catholic  missions  have  a  history  of  social  service. 
In  the  1970s,  along  with  priests,  the  staffs  of  most  establishments 
included  brothers  and  nuns  who  worked  in  the  areas  of  health,  edu- 
cation, and  development.  Many  of  the  nuns  were  trained  medical 
professionals  who  served  on  the  staffs  of  government  hospitals  and 
clinics.  It  was  estimated  that  20,000  Chadians  attended  Roman 
Catholic  schools  in  1980.  Adult  literacy  classes  also  reached  beyond 
the  traditional  school-aged  population.  In  the  area  of  development, 
as  early  as  the  1950s  Roman  Catholic  missions  in  southern  Chad 
set  up  rural  development  centers  whose  clientele  included  non- 
Christians  as  well  as  Christians. 

Education 

The  establishment  of  Protestant  mission  schools  in  southern  Chad 
in  the  1920s,  followed  by  Roman  Catholic  and  colonial  state 
establishments  in  later  decades,  marked  the  beginning  of  Western 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


education  in  Chad.  From  the  outset,  the  colonial  administration 
required  that  all  instruction  be  in  French,  with  the  exception  of 
religion  classes,  which  could  be  taught  in  local  languages.  As  early 
as  1925,  the  state  imposed  a  standard  curriculum  on  all  institu- 
tions wishing  official  recognition  and  government  subsidies.  The 
state  thus  extended  its  influence  to  education,  even  though  the 
majority  of  Chadian  students  attended  private  mission  schools 
before  World  War  II. 

Education  in  Chad  has  focused  on  primary  instruction.  Until 
1942  students  who  desired  a  secular  secondary  education  had  to 
go  to  schools  in  Brazzaville,  the  capital  of  the  AEF.  This  restric- 
tion obviously  limited  the  number  of  secondary- school  students. 
Between  World  War  I  and  World  War  II,  only  a  dozen  Chadians 
studied  in  Brazzaville.  Once  in  Brazzaville,  students  received  tech- 
nical instruction  rather  than  a  liberal  arts  education,  entering  three- 
year  programs  designed  to  produce  medical  aides,  clerks,  or 
low-level  technicians.  State  secondary  schools  were  opened  in  Chad 
in  1942,  but  recognized  certificate  programs  did  not  begin  until 
the  mid-1950s. 

At  independence  in  1960,  the  government  established  a  goal  of 
universal  primary  education,  and  school  attendance  was  made  com- 
pulsory until  age  twelve.  Nevertheless,  the  development  of  stan- 
dard curricula  was  hampered  by  the  limited  number  of  schools, 
the  existence  of  two-  and  three-year  establishments  alongside  the 
standard  five-  and  seven-year  colleges  and  lycees,  and  the  Muslim 
preference  for  Quranic  education.  Even  so,  by  the  mid-1960s 
17  percent  of  students  between  the  ages  of  six  and  eight  were  in 
school.  This  number  represented  a  substantial  increase  over  the 
8  percent  attending  school  in  the  mid-1950s  and  the  1.4  percent 
immediately  after  World  War  II.  Although  the  academic  year  in 
Chad  parallels  the  French  schedule,  running  from  October  to  June, 
it  is  not  particularly  appropriate  for  a  country  where  the  hottest 
part  of  the  April  and  May. 

Quranic  schools  throughout  the  Saharan  and  sahelian  zones  teach 
students  to  read  Arabic  and  recite  Quranic  verse.  Although  tradi- 
tional Islamic  education  at  the  secondary  level  has  existed  since 
the  nineteenth  century,  students  seeking  advanced  learning  gener- 
ally have  studied  in  northern  Cameroon,  Nigeria,  Sudan,  or  the 
Middle  East.  In  Chad,  modern  Islamic  secondary  schools  have  in- 
cluded the  Ecole  Mohamed  Illech,  founded  in  1918  and  modeled 
after  Egyptian  educational  institutions.  Other  schools  included  the 
Lycee  Franco- Arabe,  founded  by  the  colonial  administration  in 
Abeche  in  1952.  The  lycee  offered  a  blend  of  Arabic,  Quranic,  and 
secular  French  education.  Numerous  observers  believed  that 


77 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


although  the  creation  of  a  French-Islamic  program  of  study  was 
commendable,  the  administration's  major  objective  was  to  coun- 
ter foreign  Islamic  influence  rather  than  to  offer  a  viable  alterna- 
tive curriculum. 

Despite  the  government's  efforts,  overall  educational  levels 
remained  low  at  the  end  of  the  first  decade  of  independence.  In 
1971  about  88  percent  of  men  and  99  percent  of  women  older  than 
age  fifteen  could  not  read,  write,  or  speak  French,  at  the  time  the 
only  official  national  language;  literacy  in  Arabic  stood  at  7.8  per- 
cent. In  1982  the  overall  literacy  rate  stood  at  about  15  percent. 

Major  problems  have  hindered  the  development  of  Chadian  edu- 
cation since  independence.  Financing  has  been  very  limited.  Pub- 
lic expenditures  for  education  amounted  to  only  14  percent  of  the 
national  budget  in  1 963 .  Expenditures  increased  over  the  next  sev- 
eral years  but  declined  at  the  end  of  the  decade.  In  1969  funding 
for  education  dropped  to  11  percent  of  the  budget;  the  next  year 
it  declined  still  further  to  9  percent.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  govern- 
ment allotted  only  about  7  percent  of  its  budget  to  education,  a 
figure  lower  than  that  for  all  but  a  few  African  countries. 

Limited  facilities  and  personnel  also  have  made  it  difficult  for 
the  education  system  to  provide  adequate  instruction.  Overcrowding 
is  a  major  problem;  some  classes  have  up  to  100  students,  many 
of  whom  are  repeaters.  In  the  years  just  after  independence,  many 
primary- school  teachers  had  only  marginal  qualifications.  On  the 
secondary  level,  the  situation  was  even  worse;  at  the  end  of  the 
1960s,  for  example,  the  Lycee  Ahmad  Mangue  in  Sarh  (formerly 
Fort-Archambault)  had  only  a  handful  of  Chadians  among  its  sev- 
eral dozen  faculty  members.  During  these  years,  Chad  lacked  suffi- 
cient facilities  for  technical  and  vocational  education  to  train  needed 
intermediate-level  technicians,  and  there  was  no  university. 

In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Chad  made  considerable  progress  in 
dealing  with  problems  of  facilities  and  personnel.  To  improve 
instruction,  review  sessions  and  refresher  programs  have  been 
instituted  for  primary- school  teachers.  On  the  secondary  level, 
increasing  numbers  of  Chadians  have  taken  their  places  in  the  ranks 
of  the  faculty.  Furthermore,  during  the  1971-72  school  year,  the 
Universite  du  Tchad  opened  its  doors. 

Another  problem  at  independence  was  that  the  French  curricula 
of  Chadian  schools  limited  their  effectiveness.  Primary  instruction 
was  in  French,  although  most  students  did  not  speak  that  language 
when  they  entered  school,  and  teaching  methods  and  materials  were 
often  poorly  suited  to  the  rural  settings  of  most  schools.  In  addi- 
tion, the  academic  program  inherited  from  the  French  did  not  pre- 
pare students  for  employment  options  in  Chad.  Beginning  in  the 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


late  1960s,  the  government  attempted  to  address  these  problems. 
A  number  of  model  schools  discarded  the  French  style  of  a  for- 
mal, classical  education  in  favor  of  a  new  approach  that  taught  chil- 
dren to  reinterpret  and  modify  their  social  and  economic 
environment.  Rather  than  teaching  French  as  it  was  taught  in 
French  schools  to  French  children,  the  model  schools  taught  it  more 
appropriately  as  a  foreign  language.  These  new  schools  also  intro- 
duced basic  skills  courses  in  the  fourth  year  of  primary  school.  Stu- 
dents who  would  probably  not  go  on  to  secondary  school  were  given 
the  chance  to  attend  agricultural  training  centers. 

Unfortunately,  all  of  the  preceding  problems  were  complicated 
by  a  fourth  difficulty:  the  Chadian  Civil  War.  Little  has  been  written 
specifically  about  how  this  conflict  has  disrupted  education,  but 
several  effects  can  reasonably  be  surmised.  Lack  of  security  in  vast 
parts  of  the  country  undoubtedly  has  made  it  difficult  to  send 
teachers  to  their  posts  and  to  maintain  them  there,  which  has  been 
particularly  problematic  because  as  government  employees,  teachers 
often  have  been  identified  with  government  policies.  In  addition, 
the  mobility  occasioned  by  the  war  has  played  havoc  with  attempts 
to  get  children  to  attend  classes  regularly.  The  diversion  of  resources 
to  the  conflict  has  also  prevented  the  government  from  maintain- 
ing the  expenditure  levels  found  at  independence,  much  less  aug- 
menting available  funds.  Finally,  the  violence  has  taken  its  toll 
among  teachers,  students,  and  facilities.  One  of  the  more  dramatic 
instances  of  this  was  the  destruction  and  looting  of  primary  schools, 
lycees,  and  even  the  national  archives  attached  to  the  Universite 
du  Tchad  during  the  battles  of  N'Djamena  in  1979  and  1980. 

To  its  credit,  the  government  has  made  major  efforts  to  over- 
come these  problems.  In  1983  the  Ministry  of  Planning  and  Recon- 
struction reported  that  the  opening  of  the  1982-83  school  year  was 
the  most  successful  since  the  upheavals  of  1979.  In  1984  the  Univer- 
site du  Tchad,  the  Ecole  Nationale  d' Administration,  and  the  Ecole 
Nationale  des  Travaux  Publics  reopened  their  doors  as  well. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Ministry  of  Education  had  administrative 
responsibility  for  all  formal  schooling.  Because  of  years  of  civil  strife, 
however,  local  communities  had  assumed  many  of  the  ministry's 
functions,  including  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  schools, 
and  payment  of  teachers'  salaries. 

Primary  Education 

In  the  late  1980s,  primary  education  in  Chad  consisted  of  a  six- 
year  program  leading  to  an  elementary  school  certificate.  In  the 
south,  most  students  began  their  studies  at  the  age  of  six;  in  the 
north,  they  tended  to  be  somewhat  older.  With  the  exception  of 


79 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


schools  that  followed  experimental  programs,  the  curriculum 
adhered  to  the  French  model.  Courses  included  reading,  writing, 
spelling,  grammar,  mathematics,  history,  geography,  science,  and 
drawing. 

Primary- school  enrollment  for  the  1986-87  school  year  was  more 
than  300,000  students.  There  were  6,203  instructors  teaching  in 
1,650  schools,  but  10  percent  of  the  instructors  were  in  nonteach- 
ing  positions,  yielding  a  pupil- to- teacher  ratio  of  about  sixty  to  one. 
Only  about  40  percent  of  all  primary- school- aged  children  attended 
class,  and  attendance  was  much  greater  in  the  south  than  in  the 
Sahel  or  in  the  northern  parts  of  the  country  (see  table  2,  Appen- 
dix A).  Approximately  2.8  percent  of  primary- school  children  were 
enrolled  in  private  schools,  and  most  of  these  were  in  Roman 
Catholic  mission  schools  concentrated  in  the  south  or  near  the 
capital. 

Secondary  Education 

In  1983  secondary  education  in  Chad  continued  to  follow  French 
models.  Primary- school  graduates  competed  for  entrance  into  two 
types  of  liberal  arts  institutions,  the  college  d'enseignement  general  (called 
a  college,  or  CEG)  or  the  lycee.  The  college  offered  a  four-year  course 
of  study,  and  the  lycee  offered  a  seven-year  program.  In  both 
institutions,  students  took  a  general  examination  at  the  end  of  four 
years.  College  students  who  passed  could  be  allowed  to  transfer  to 
a  lycee  to  complete  their  studies;  successful  lycee  students  continued 
at  their  institutions.  At  the  end  of  seven  years  of  secondary  educa- 
tion, all  students  took  comprehensive  exams  for  the  baccalaureate 
degree,  called  the  bac,  a  requirement  for  admission  to  a  university. 

Students  with  primary- school  certificates  interested  in  teaching 
careers  could  enroll  in  a  college  or  lycee,  or  they  could  enter  a  teacher 
training  school.  The  normal  school  program  was  six  years  long. 
The  first  four  years  were  devoted  to  general  education,  much  the 
same  as  at  the  college  or  lycee,  and  the  last  two  years  concentrated 
on  professional  training.  Students  finishing  this  course  were  awarded 
an  elementary-level  teaching  certificate.  In  1986-87  Chad  had  sixty- 
one  colleges  and  lycees.  More  than  half  of  these  schools  were  located 
in  the  N'Djamena  area.  There  were  43,357  secondary  students 
enrolled  in  the  1986-87  school  year.  In  the  1983-84  school  year, 
5,002  college  students  took  the  exam,  with  a  success  rate  of 
43.5  percent,  or  2,174  students;  3,175  students  took  the  bac,  and 
36.9  percent,  or  1,173  students,  passed.  Although  still  low,  the  num- 
bers of  examination  candidates  suggested  major  improvements  over 
1960,  when  2,000  students  attended  general  secondary  schools,  and 
over  1968-69,  when  enrollment  stood  at  8,724.  Finally,  during  the 


80 


A  primary  school  in  a 
bombed-out  building  in 
Kanem  Prefecture 
Courtesy  UNICEF 
(Maggie  Murray-Lee) 


1986-87  school  year,  Chad  had  five  institutions  for  training 
primary- school  teachers,  with  a  enrollment  of  1,020  students. 

Higher  Education 

When  the  country  became  independent  in  1960,  Chad  had  no 
university.  For  the  first  decade  of  the  nation's  life,  students  who 
wished  to  study  beyond  the  secondary  level  had  to  go  abroad.  In 
the  1966-67  school  year,  eighty-three  Chadians  were  studying  out- 
side the  country;  the  following  year,  this  number  rose  to  200.  In 
the  early  years,  almost  all  students  seeking  advanced  education  were 
male.  The  largest  number  went  to  France  (30  percent  in  the 
academic  year  1966-67,  for  example),  but  some  Chadians  studied 
in  Belgium,  Senegal,  Cote  d'lvoire,  and  Congo.  At  that  time,  most 
students  were  pursuing  degrees  in  education,  liberal  arts,  agricul- 
ture, and  medicine. 

Pursuant  to  an  agreement  with  France,  the  Universite  du  Tchad 
opened  in  the  1971-72  academic  year.  Financed  almost  entirely 
through  French  assistance,  the  faculty  of  25  welcomed  200  students 
the  first  year.  By  the  1974-75  academic  year,  enrollment  had 
climbed  to  500,  and  the  university  graduated  its  first  class  of  45. 
The  imposition  of  compulsory  yondo  rites  greatly  disrupted  the  fol- 
lowing school  year,  but  after  the  overthrow  of  Tombalbaye  and 
the  end  of  the  authenticity  movement,  the  university  continued  to 
grow  (see  Classical  African  Religions,  this  ch.).  Enrollment  rose 


81 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


from  639  in  1976-77  to  a  high  of  1,046  in  1977-78.  Enrollment 
then  dropped  slightly  to  974  in  1978-79.  Unfortunately,  the  Chad- 
ian  Civil  War  curtailed  university  activities  in  1979  and  1980,  when 
the  first  and  second  battles  of  N'Djamena  threatened  facilities  and 
students  alike.  With  the  return  of  relative  calm  in  the  early  1980s, 
the  university  reopened.  In  1983-84  the  university  had  141  teachers 
and  1,643  students. 

In  addition  to  the  university,  higher  learning  in  Chad  included 
one  advanced  teacher-training  institution,  the  Ecole  Normale 
Superieure,  which  trained  secondary- school  instructors.  Enrollment 
in  the  1982-83  and  1983-84  school  years  came  to  about  200  stu- 
dents. Degree  programs  included  history-geography,  modern  litera- 
ture, English  and  French,  Arabic  and  French,  mathematics  and 
physics,  and  biology- geology-chemistry. 

Vocational  Education 

In  1983  vocational  education  was  offered  at  three  lycees  techniques 
industriels  (in  Sarh,  N'Djamena,  and  Moundou),  and  the  College 
d'Enseignement  Technique  in  Sarh.  Enrollment  figures  for  three 
of  the  four  technical  schools  stood  at  1,490  in  1983. 

Primary- school  graduates  interested  in  technical  or  vocational 
training  could  follow  two  courses.  They  either  could  enter  a  first- 
level,  three-year  program  {premier  cycle)  at  a  college  (after  which  they 
could  transfer  to  one  of  the  four  technical  schools)  or  they  could 
enroll  directly  in  one  of  the  lycees  for  a  six-year  program.  Students 
completing  the  three-year  premier  cycle  received  professional  apti- 
tude certificates;  those  finishing  the  entire  six-year  course  were 
awarded  diplomas. 

Apart  from  the  lycees  techniques,  several  other  institutions  offered 
vocational  training  in  Chad  in  the  early  1980s.  These  included  the 
Ecole  Nationale  d 'Administration,  which  opened  in  1963  in 
N'Djamena;  a  postal  and  telecommunications  school  in  Sarh;  a 
school  for  technical  education  related  to  public  works;  and  the  Ba-Illi 
agricultural  school.  Other  Chadians  studied  at  technical  training 
centers  abroad. 

In  the  late  1980s,  advanced  medical  education  was  not  avail- 
able in  Chad.  The  only  medical  training  institution  was  the  National 
School  of  Public  Health  and  Social  Work  (Ecole  Nationale  de  Sante 
Publique  et  de  Service  Social — ENSPSS)  in  N'Djamena.  Its  enroll- 
ment, however,  has  been  very  limited;  in  1982  there  were  only 
twenty-eight  students  in  nursing,  three  in  social  work,  and  thirty- 
three  in  public  health. 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Health  and  Medical  Services 

A  range  of  diseases  afflicts  the  populace  of  Chad.  In  1983  infec- 
tious and  parasitic  diseases  were  the  most  prevalent  ailments,  fol- 
lowed by  respiratory  afflictions  and  nervous  disorders.  In  1988  a 
severe  epidemic  of  meningitis  affected  N'Djamena,  in  particular. 
By  1987  only  one  case  of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS)  had  been  reported  to  the  World  Health  Organization; 
however,  it  was  likely  that  incidence  of  the  disease  was  many  times 
higher,  especially  in  the  southern  areas  near  Cameroon  and  Cen- 
tral African  Republic. 

By  the  early  1960s,  the  government  made  a  substantial  effort  to 
extend  the  country's  limited  health  infrastructure.  Despite  the  ensu- 
ing civil  conflict,  the  government  has  attempted  to  maintain  and 
expand  health  services.  Foreign  assistance  has  allowed  the  construc- 
tion of  new  buildings  and  the  renovation  of  existing  facilities,  as  well 
as  the  laying  of  groundwork  for  training  health  care  professionals. 

By  the  early  1980s,  health  facilities  included  five  hospitals  (at 
N'Djamena,  Sarh,  Moundou,  Abeche,  and  a  locality  in  Mayo-Kebbi 
Prefecture).  Two  polyclinics  served  the  population  of  the  capital 
region.  Medical  centers  numbered  18,  and  there  were  20  infirmaries 
and  127  dispensaries.  Private  medical  facilities  numbered  seventy- 
five,  and  twenty  social  centers  administered  to  the  needs  of  Chadians 
in  all  prefectures  except  Biltine  and  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti. 

Despite  apparent  progress  in  health  care  delivery,  it  is  difficult 
to  determine  if  growth  in  the  number  of  facilities  represented  an 
increased  capacity  or  merely  a  reorganization  and  reclassification 
of  health  establishments.  The  only  data  available  in  1988,  for 
example,  showed  that  despite  the  increase  in  numbers  of  units,  the 
hospitals,  medical  centers,  and  infirmaries  increased  the  number  of 
beds  by  only  238  more  than  the  number  recorded  in  1971 .  Modern 
health  care  was  also  very  unevenly  distributed.  Such  facilities  in  Chad 
have  long  been  concentrated  in  the  south  and  remained  so  in  1983. 
For  example,  eleven  of  the  eighteen  medical  centers  were  found  there, 
along  with  three  of  the  five  hospitals,  and  private  care  followed  the 
same  pattern,  with  sixty-four  of  seventy-five  centers  in  the  southern 
prefectures.  In  theory,  therefore,  people  in  the  less  populated  sahelian 
and  Saharan  regions  had  to  travel  very  long  distances  for  modern 
medical  care.  In  fact,  distance,  lack  of  transportation,  and  civil  con- 
flict probably  discouraged  most  people  from  making  the  effort. 

A  continuing  shortage  of  trained  medical  personnel  has  com- 
pounded the  difficulty  of  providing  adequate,  accessible  health 
facilities.  In  1983  Chad's  medical  system  employed  42  Chadian  doc- 
tors, 8  pharmacists,  a  biologist,  87  registered  nurses,  583  practical 


83 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

nurses,  59  nurses  specializing  in  childbirth,  22  midwives,  19  health 
inspectors,  and  99  public  health  agents.  Foreign  assistance  provided 
another  41  doctors,  103  nurses,  and  2  midwives. 

More  detailed  information  concerning  health  care  in  Chad  was 
unavailable  in  the  late  1980s,  largely  because  of  the  Chadian  Civil 
War,  which  had  disrupted  government  services  for  many  years. 
As  a  result  of  this  conflict,  there  were  probably  fewer  health  per- 
sonnel in  the  late  1980s  than  earlier  in  the  decade,  particularly  in 
the  sahelian  and  Saharan  zones,  where  nurses  abandoned  rural 
infirmaries.  Mortality  levels  in  Chad  have  been  high  for  a  long 
time,  but  the  war  may  have  reversed  the  limited  progress  made 
in  the  1960s  in  dealing  with  the  country's  many  health  problems. 
Although  the  conflict  was  far  from  resolved  in  the  late  1980s,  the 
Habre  government  had  been  much  more  successful  than  its  prede- 
cessors in  consolidating  control  over  the  sahelian  and  Saharan  regions 
of  the  country  where  modern  health  care  has  been  the  least  avail- 
able. Although  resources  remained  scarce,  greater  international 
attention  to  Chad's  plight  produced  more  foreign  assistance  than 
in  the  past. 

*    *  * 

In  the  late  1980s,  reliable  studies  on  Chad  in  English  remained 
scarce.  For  a  useful  general  study  of  Chad,  the  reader  should  con- 
sult Jean  Chapelle's  Le  peuple  tchadien:  ses  racines  et  sa  vie  quotidienne. 
A  slightly  more  recent  study,  Tchad:  la  genese  d'un  conflit  by  Christian 
Bouquet,  covers  some  of  the  same  ground  but  focuses  on  the  con- 
text of  Chadian  underdevelopment  and  civil  conflict.  The  much 
drier  volume,  Le  Tchad  by  Jean  Cabot  and  Christian  Bouquet,  offers 
a  more  detailed  survey  of  the  physical  environment.  In  English, 
Dennis  D.  Cordell's  Daral-Kuti  and  the  Last  Years  of  the  Trans-Saharan 
Slave  Trade  analyzes  Chad's  role  in  Saharan  commerce,  the  Mus- 
lim slave  trade,  and  the  expanding  Islamic  world  of  the  nineteenth 
century.  Finally,  Samuel  Decalo's  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad  is  one 
of  the  very  few  general  references  to  the  country  in  English. 

There  are  a  number  of  good  regional  studies  of  Chadian  society 
and  religion.  Basic  literature  on  the  Sara  of  the  soudanian  zone 
includes  Robert  J aulin's  controversial  La  mort  sara,  a  study  of  the 
yondo;  Jean-Pierre  Magnant's  important  La  terre  sara,  terre  tchadienne; 
and  Francoise  Dumas-Champion's  Les  Masa  du  Tchad.  Annie  M.D. 
Lebeufs  Les  principautes  Kotoko  remains  the  essential  study  of  the 
Kotoko.  Albert  Le  Rouvreur's  Saheliens  et  sahariens  du  Tchad  sur- 
veys the  northern  two-thirds  of  the  country.  Within  this  region, 
basic  reading  should  include  Jean  Chapelle's  now-classic  Nomads 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


noirs  du  Sahara,  a.  study  of  the  Teda  and  Daza;  Jean-Claude  Zelt- 
ner's  Les  Arabes  dans  la  region  du  Lac  Tchad;  and  Dennis  D.  Cor- 
dell's  4 'The  Awlad  Sulayman  of  Libya  and  Chad,"  in  Canadian 
Journal  of  African  Studies.  In  Survivances  pre-islamiques  en  pays  zaghawa, 
Marie-Jose  Tubiana  analyzes  the  retention  of  pre-Islamic  beliefs 
and  practices  in  eastern  Chad.  In  Pilgrims  in  a  Strange  Land,  John 
A.  Works,  Jr.  has  written  a  good  study  of  Hausa  communities  in 
Chad  and  their  role  in  the  spread  of  Islam.  (For  further  informa- 
tion and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


85 


Typical  Chadian  village,  with  grass  huts  and  large  earthen  pots  for  storing  grain 


When  France  granted  independence  to  chad  in 

I960,  it  left  the  new  government  with  an  essentially  traditional  econ- 
omy, having  a  small  industrial  sector,  an  agricultural  sector  domi- 
nated by  cotton,  and  an  inadequate  transportation  sector. 
Moreover,  the  country  had  few  trained  technicians  or  capable 
administrators.  In  spite  of  well-intentioned  efforts  by  a  series  of 
civilian  and  military  governments,  throughout  the  1970s  and  1980s, 
the  combination  of  prolonged  civil  strife,  chronic  drought,  and 
political  uncertainty  aborted  most  progress. 

By  the  late  1980s,  even  though  there  had  been  a  lull  in  the  fight- 
ing, better  rains,  and  a  modicum  of  political  stability,  Chad  was 
still  one  of  the  poorest  countries  on  earth  and  one  of  the  least 
endowed  with  resources.  The  economy  had  not  improved  apprecia- 
bly since  independence  and,  by  some  measurements,  was  proba- 
bly worse  than  in  1960.  Reliant  on  foreign  aid  and  vulnerable  to 
the  uncontrollable  forces  of  the  international  cotton  market,  Chad 
could  hope  to  make  only  incremental  gains  in  its  quest  to  achieve 
a  viable,  self-sustaining  economy. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

Chad's  remoteness,  its  inadequate  infrastructure,  its  recent  his- 
tory of  war,  drought,  and  famine,  and  its  dependency  on  a  single 
cash  crop — cotton — for  export  earnings  made  it  one  of  the  poorest 
nations  of  the  world.  In  the  mid-1980s,  Chad's  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  per  capita  was  only  US$160,  which 
clearly  reflected  the  extent  of  the  nation's  impoverishment.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  Chad  ranked  among  the  five  poorest  nations  of  the  world 
according  to  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  statistics. 

Chad's  economy  was  based  almost  entirely  on  agriculture  and 
pastoralism.  In  1986  the  World  Bank  estimated  that  approximately 
83  percent  of  the  country's  economically  active  population  worked 
in  agriculture,  5  percent  worked  in  industry,  and  12  percent  were 
engaged  in  services,  including  government  employment,  trade,  and 
other  service  activities.  Cotton  processing,  which  includes  ginning 
raw  cotton  into  fiber  for  export,  some  spinning  and  weaving,  and 
producing  edible  oil  from  cotton  seed  for  local  consumption,  domi- 
nated industry. 

Figures  for  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  also 
reflected  agriculture's  importance.  In  1986  the  World  Bank  esti- 
mated that  46.3  percent  of  Chad's  GDP  came  from  agriculture  and 


89 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

pastoralism.  Industry  and  manufacturing  accounted  for  only 
17.9  percent  of  GDP,  while  services  represented  35.7  percent  of 
GDP. 

Geography  and  climate  played  an  influential  role  in  Chad's  econ- 
omy. The  country  is  divided  into  three  major  climatic  zones — 
Saharan,  sahelian,  and  soudanian — which  are  distinguished  by  the 
level  of  annual  average  rainfall.  There  are  only  two  productive 
zones — the  soudanian  cotton-producing  zone  of  the  south,  sometimes 
called  Le  Tchad  Utile  (Useful  Chad),  and  the  central  sahelian  cattle- 
herding  region.  The  northern  Saharan  region  produces  little. 

In  1987  Chad's  economy  was  dependent  on  a  single  cash  crop — 
cotton.  Like  most  other  single-crop  economies  in  the  Third  World, 
when  world  commodity  prices  were  high,  conditions  improved. 
When  those  prices  fell,  conditions  worsened.  Despite  several  impor- 
tant swings,  during  the  1970s  and  particularly  in  the  early  1980s, 
cotton  prices  were  good.  Chad's  cotton  revenues  peaked  in  1983 
and  1984,  but  in  1985  world  cotton  prices  fell  steeply,  nearly  crip- 
pling the  cotton  industry.  This  decline  forced  a  major  economic 
restructuring  under  the  auspices  of  the  World  Bank  and  foreign 
donors.  To  revive  the  cotton  industry,  a  1986  restructuring  pro- 
gram curtailed  all  cotton-derived  revenues  to  the  government  until 
world  prices  rebounded.  This  program  forced  cutbacks  on  the 
production  of  raw  cotton  and  limited  the  level  of  government  sup- 
port to  producers  for  improved  cropping  methods,  ginning,  and 
other  related  industrial  operations. 

Cattle  and  beef  exports  followed  cotton  in  economic  importance. 
Estimates  of  the  value  of  these  exports  varied  greatly  because  large 
numbers  of  livestock  left  the  country  ' 'on  the  hoof,"  totally  out- 
side the  control  of  customs  officials.  Nevertheless,  cattle  and  beef 
exports  accounted  for  30  to  60  percent  of  all  exports  from  1975 
through  1 985 ,  depending  on  the  value  of  the  cotton  crop  in  a  given 
year.  Approximately  29  percent  of  Chadians  depended  almost 
entirely  on  livestock  for  their  livelihood  in  the  early  1980s,  and 
livestock  and  their  by-products  represented  around  26  percent  of 
GNP. 

Chad's  lack  of  resources  limited  the  exploitation  of  mineral 
deposits.  There  were  known  deposits  of  bauxite  in  the  southern 
regions,  and  reports  indicated  deposits  of  uranium  and  some  other 
minerals  in  the  Tibesti  Mountains  and  Aozou  Strip  (see  Glossary). 
Even  in  late  1987,  however,  no  bauxite  was  being  mined,  and 
because  of  hostilities  in  the  northern  zones,  claims  of  mineral 
deposits  there  had  not  been  verified.  Chad's  only  mining  industry 
was  the  traditional  exploitation  of  sodium  carbonate  (natron)  in 
dried  beds  around  Lake  Chad. 


90 


The  Economy 


Oil  offered  one  of  the  few  reasons  for  economic  optimism.  In 
1974  a  consortium  of  companies  led  by  Conoco  discovered  oil  near 
Rig  Rig,  north  of  Lake  Chad.  Plans  to  exploit  these  reserves, 
estimated  at  438  million  barrels,  and  to  build  a  small  refinery  to 
serve  Chad's  domestic  needs  were  delayed  in  the  late  1970s  and 
early  1980s  because  of  the  Chadian  Civil  War.  In  1986  the 
government — with  World  Bank  support — revived  the  idea,  and 
plans  called  for  operations  to  begin  in  the  early  1990s.  Nonethe- 
less, these  deposits  would  ensure  only  Chad's  domestic  needs,  and 
no  oil  would  be  exported.  In  1985  Exxon,  which  had  become  the 
leader  of  the  exploratory  consortium,  discovered  oil  in  southern 
Chad,  near  Doba.  The  size  of  the  reserves  was  not  known,  although 
it  was  believed  to  be  large.  Exxon,  however,  suspended  drilling 
in  1986  when  world  oil  prices  fell. 

Remoteness  and  distance  are  prime  features  of  economic  life  in 
Chad.  Transportation  and  communications  are  difficult,  both 
internally  and  externally.  Douala,  Cameroon,  the  nearest  port  from 
N'Djamena,  is  1,700  kilometers  away.  By  the  mid-1980s,  the  only 
paved  roads  linking  the  capital  to  the  interior,  some  250  kilometers 
of  hardtop,  had  disappeared  because  of  insufficient  maintenance. 
Of  the  estimated  31,000  kilometers  of  dirt  roads  and  tracks,  only 
1,260  kilometers  were  all-weather  roads.  The  remainder  became 
impassable  during  the  rainy  season.  There  were  no  railroads  in 
Chad. 

Since  independence,  Chad  has  relied  on  outside  donors  and 
regional  institutions  for  economic  survival  and  development.  Chad's 
principal  sponsor  has  been  France,  which  has  subsidized  the  budget. 
Through  the  mechanisms  of  the  Lome  Convention  (see  Glossary) 
between  the  members  of  the  European  Economic  Community 
(EEC)  and  their  former  colonies  in  Africa,  the  Caribbean,  and  the 
Pacific  (ACP),  France  has  also  subsidized  Chad's  cotton  produc- 
tion and  exports.  French  companies  have  dominated  trade,  and 
French  banks  have  controlled  Chad's  finances. 

Information  on  Chadian  government  finances  was  fragmentary 
and  inconsistent.  The  political  instability  from  1976  to  1982  left 
large  sections  of  the  country  beyond  any  form  of  central  control, 
and  during  this  period  the  state  had  very  few  finances.  After  1982, 
however,  fragmentary  estimates  indicated  a  growing  importance 
of  donor  finances  and  a  decline  in  internally  generated  revenues. 
In  addition,  during  the  1980s  military  spending  was  high.  Although 
the  proportion  of  real  government  expenditures  for  defense  was 
difficult  to  assess,  it  could  have  represented  as  much  as  70  percent 
of  government  spending.  Despite  a  measure  of  political  stability 
after  1982,  the  situation  worsened  in  1985  with  the  collapse  of 


91 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

cotton  revenues.  In  1986  the  World  Bank  and  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  joined  in  efforts  by  other 
donors,  including  France,  the  EEC,  and  the  United  States,  to  stabi- 
lize Chad's  financial  and  budget  difficulties. 

Role  of  Government 

Both  before  and  after  the  Chadian  Civil  War,  the  government 
participated  actively  in  the  economy  and  fostered  a  liberal  economic 
development  policy.  It  encouraged  foreign  investment,  both  pub- 
lic and  private,  and  in  1987  had  under  review  the  Investment  Code 
of  1963.  The  objective  was  to  minimize  regulations  for  the  private 
manufacturing  sector  and  particularly  for  small-  and  medium- sized 
enterprises. 

The  government  considered  the  public  sector  a  complement  to, 
and  not  a  substitute  for,  the  private  sector.  Even  so,  because  of 
the  country's  narrow  productive  base  and  limited  cash  economy, 
the  government  was  forced  to  play  an  active  role  in  the  economy. 
This  participation  primarily  took  the  form  of  mixed  public  and  pri- 
vate marketing  enterprises,  called  parastatals.  As  a  partner  in  these 
ventures,  the  government  participated  in  the  planning  and  con- 
trolling of  the  economy  and  became  a  key  actor  in  the  service  sec- 
tor through  the  parastatals,  which  employed  thousands  of 
individuals  (see  Manufacturing,  Mining,  and  Utilities,  this  ch.; 
Government  Finances,  this  ch.). 

Agriculture 

In  1986  approximately  83  percent  of  the  active  population  were 
farmers  or  herders.  This  sector  of  the  economy  accounted  for  almost 
half  of  GDP.  With  the  exception  of  cotton,  some  small-scale  sugar 
production,  and  a  portion  of  the  peanut  crop,  Chad's  agriculture 
consisted  of  subsistence  food  production.  The  types  of  crops  that 
were  grown  and  the  locations  of  herds  were  determined  by  con- 
siderable variations  in  Chad's  climate  (see  Physical  Setting,  ch.  2). 

The  soudanian  zone  comprises  those  areas  with  an  average  annual 
rainfall  of  800  millimeters  or  more.  This  region,  which  accounts 
for  about  10  percent  of  the  total  land  area,  contains  the  nation's 
most  fertile  croplands.  Settled  agricultural  communities  growing 
a  wide  variety  of  food  crops  are  its  main  features.  Fishing  is  impor- 
tant in  the  rivers,  and  families  raise  goats,  chickens,  and,  in  some 
cases,  oxen  for  plowing.  In  1983  about  72  percent  of  all  land  under 
cultivation  in  Chad  was  in  the  soudanian  region. 

The  central  zone,  the  sahelian  region,  comprises  the  area  with 
average  annual  rainfall  of  between  350  and  800  millimeters.  The 
minimum  rainfall  needed  for  the  hardiest  of  Chad's  varieties  of 


92 


A  livestock  market  in  Massakoury 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 


millet,  called  berebere,  is  350  millimeters.  The  western  area  of  the 
zone  is  dominated  by  the  Chari  and  Logone  rivers,  which  flow  north 
from  their  sources  in  southern  Chad  and  neighboring  countries  (see 
fig.  3).  The  courses  of  these  rivers,  joining  at  N'Djamena  to  flow 
on  to  Lake  Chad,  create  an  ecological  subregion.  Fishing  is  important 
for  the  peoples  along  the  rivers  and  along  the  shores  of  Lake  Chad. 
Flood  recession  cropping  is  practiced  along  the  edges  of  the  riverbeds 
and  lakeshore,  areas  that  have  held  the  most  promise  for  irrigation 
in  the  zone.  International  donor  attention  focused  on  this  potential 
beginning  in  the  mid-1960s.  Particular  attention  has  been  paid  to 
the  traditional  construction  of  polders  (see  Glossary)  along  the  shores 
of  Lake  Chad.  Land  reclaimed  by  the  use  of  such  methods  is  ex- 
tremely fertile.  Chad's  only  wheat  crop  is  cultivated  in  these  polders. 

In  the  rest  of  the  sahelian  region,  the  hardier  varieties  of  millet, 
along  with  peanuts  and  dry  beans,  are  grown.  Crop  yields  are  far 
lower  than  they  are  in  the  south  or  near  rivers  and  lakes.  Farmers 
take  every  advantage  of  seasonal  flooding  to  grow  recession  crops 
before  the  waters  dry  away,  a  practice  particularly  popular  around 
Lake  Fitri.  The  sahelian  region  is  ideal  for  pasturage.  Herding 
includes  large  cattle  herds  for  commercial  sale,  and  goats,  sheep, 
donkeys,  and  some  horses  are  common  in  all  villages. 

The  Saharan  zone  encompasses  roughly  the  northern  one-third 
of  Chad.  Except  for  some  dates  and  legumes  grown  in  the  scattered 


93 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

oases,  the  area  is  not  productive.  Annual  rainfall  averages  less  than 
350  millimeters,  and  the  land  is  sparsely  populated  by  nomadic 
tribes.  Many  of  Chad's  camel  herds  are  found  in  the  region,  but 
there  are  few  cattle  or  horses. 

Chad's  subsistence  farmers  practice  traditional  slash-and-burn 
agriculture  in  tandem  with  crop  rotation,  which  is  typical  through- 
out much  of  Africa.  Sorghum  is  the  most  important  food  crop,  fol- 
lowed by  millet  and  berebere.  Less  prevalent  grains  are  corn,  rice, 
and  wheat.  Other  secondary  crops  include  peanuts,  sesame, 
legumes,  and  tubers,  as  well  as  a  variety  of  garden  vegetables. 

Crop  rotation  in  the  soudanian  zone  traditionally  begins  with 
sorghum  or  millet  in  the  first  year.  Mixed  crops  of  sorghum  and/or 
millet,  with  peanuts,  legumes,  or  tubers,  are  then  cultivated  for 
approximately  three  years.  Farmers  then  return  the  land  to  fallow 
for  periods  up  to  fifteen  years,  turning  to  different  fields  for  the 
next  cycle.  Preparation  of  a  field  begins  with  cutting  heavy  brush 
and  unwanted  low  trees  or  branches  that  are  then  laid  on  the 
ground.  Collectively  owned  lands  are  parceled  out  during  the  dry 
season,  and  the  fields  are  burned  just  before  the  onset  of  the  first 
rains,  usually  around  March.  Farmers  work  most  intensively  dur- 
ing the  rains  between  May  and  October,  planting,  weeding  and 
protecting  the  crops  from  birds  and  animals.  Harvesting  begins 
in  September  and  October  with  the  early  varieties  of  sorghum.  The 
main  harvest  occurs  in  November  and  December.  Farmers  harvest 
crops  of  rice  and  berebere,  grown  along  receding  water  courses,  as 
late  as  February. 

The  cropping  cycle  for  most  of  the  sahelian  zone  is  similar, 
although  the  variety  of  crops  planted  is  more  limited  because  of 
dryness.  In  the  polders  of  Lake  Chad,  farmers  grow  a  wide  range 
of  crops;  two  harvests  per  year  for  corn,  sorghum,  and  legumes 
are  possible  from  February  or  March  to  September.  Rice  ripens 
in  February,  and  wheat  ripens  in  May. 

As  with  most  Third  World  countries,  control  of  the  land  deter- 
mines agricultural  practices.  There  are  three  basic  types  of  land 
tenure  in  Chad.  The  first  is  collective  ownership  by  villages  of 
croplands  in  their  environs.  In  principle,  such  lands  belong  to  a 
village  collectively  under  the  management  of  the  village  chief  or 
the  traditional  chef  des  terres  (chief  of  the  lands) .  Individual  farmers 
hold  inalienable  and  transmittable  use  rights  to  village  lands,  so 
long  as  they,  their  heirs,  or  recognized  representatives  cultivate 
the  land.  Outsiders  can  farm  village  lands  only  with  the  authori- 
zation of  the  village  chief  or  chef  des  terres.  Renting  village  farm- 
lands is  possible  in  some  local  areas  but  is  not  traditional  practice. 
Private  ownership  is  the  second  type  of  tenure,  applied  traditionally 


94 


The  Economy 


to  the  small  plots  cultivated  in  wadis  or  oases.  Wells  belong  to 
individuals  or  groups  with  rights  to  the  land.  Ownership  of  fruit 
trees  and  date  palms  in  the  oases  is  often  separate  from  ownership 
of  the  land;  those  farmers  who  plant  and  care  for  trees  own  them. 
State  ownership  is  the  third  type,  primarily  for  large  enterprises 
such  as  irrigation  projects.  Under  the  management  of  parastatal 
or  government  employees,  farmers  enter  into  contractual  arrange- 
ments, including  paying  fees,  for  the  use  of  state  lands  and  the 
benefits  of  improved  farming  methods. 

Detailed  and  reliable  statistical  information  on  Chad's  agricul- 
ture was  scarce  in  the  late  1980s;  most  researchers  viewed  availa- 
ble statistics  only  as  indicators  of  general  trends.  The  one  region 
for  which  figures  were  kept  was  the  soudanian  zone  through  survey 
coverage  by  officials  of  the  National  Office  of  Rural  Development 
(Office  National  de  Developpement  Rural — ONDR),  who  moni- 
tored cotton  production.  These  officials  also  gathered  information 
on  food  production,  but  this  effort  was  not  carried  out  systemati- 
cally. Survey  coverage  of  the  sahelian  zone  was  first  hampered,  then 
prevented,  by  civil  conflict  from  the  mid-1970s  to  the  early  1980s. 

Moreover,  figures  from  international  and  regional  organizations 
often  conflicted  or  differed  in  formulation.  For  example,  total  area 
devoted  to  food  production  was  difficult  to  estimate  because  sources 
combined  the  area  of  fields  in  production  with  those  lying  fallow 
to  give  a  total  for  arable  lands.  The  arable  land  figure  has  shown 
a  gradual  increase  since  1961.  Estimated  then  at  2.9  million 
hectares,  it  rose  to  almost  3.2  million  hectares  in  1984.  In  1983 
there  were  about  1.2  million  hectares  in  food  production  and  in 
1984  slighdy  more  than  900,000  hectares.  Therefore,  perhaps  a 
third  of  Chad's  farmlands  were  in  production  in  a  given  year,  with 
the  balance  lying  fallow. 

Cotton 

Background  of  Cotton  Cultivation 

Cotton  is  an  indigenous  crop  to  southern  Chad.  In  1910  the 
French  colonial  administration  organized  market  production  on 
a  limited  scale  under  the  direction  of  the  military  governor.  By  1920 
the  colonial  administration  was  promoting  the  large-scale  produc- 
tion of  cotton  for  export.  The  French  saw  cotton  as  the  only 
exploitable  resource  for  the  colony  and  as  an  effective  means  of 
introducing  a  cash  economy  into  the  area.  Indeed,  the  elaboration 
of  colonial  administration  went  hand  in  hand  with  the  extension 
of  cotton  production  throughout  the  region. 


95 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


France's  motives  were  clear:  it  sought  to  ensure  a  source  of  raw 
materials  for  its  home  industries  and  a  protected  market  for  its 
exports  abroad.  France  also  intended  that  taxes  derived  from  com- 
mercial ventures  within  the  colonies  would  offset  the  expenses  of 
the  colonial  administration.  Therefore,  customs  duties  on  cotton 
exports  from  Chad,  then  a  part  of  French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique 
Equatoriale  Francaise — AEF;  see  Glossary),  were  paid  to  the  gover- 
nor general  at  Brazzaville  (in  contemporary  Congo),  as  were  duties 
on  exports  from  other  colonies  under  regional  administration. 
Revenues  from  a  head  tax  were  paid  in  cash  locally  and  went  direcdy 
to  the  lieutenant  governor  of  the  colony.  Not  surprisingly,  virtually 
the  only  means  of  earning  the  money  to  pay  the  tax  was  by  the 
sale  of  cotton  to  the  French. 

In  1928  exploitation  of  cotton  within  the  colony  was  placed  in 
the  hands  of  Cotonfran,  a  private  company.  Under  the  terms  of 
the  contract  between  the  colonial  administration  and  Cotonfran, 
the  administration  maintained  a  certain  quantity  of  production  by 
the  villages,  and  Cotonfran  bought  at  least  80  percent  of  that 
production.  The  cotton  was  ginned  locally,  but  no  further  trans- 
formation was  permitted;  all  the  cotton  fiber  was  then  exported 
to  France. 

The  colonial  administration  fixed  the  quantity  of  cotton  produced 
and  the  price  paid  to  the  peasant  producer  on  the  basis  of  calcula- 
tions furnished  by  Cotonfran  of  costs  and  expectations  for  the  price 
of  cotton  on  the  world  market.  France  reorganized  village  adminis- 
tration by  replacing  traditional  chiefs  with  individuals  more  amena- 
ble to  the  colonial  power,  which  assured  the  proper  cultivation  of 
the  cotton  crop  and  the  collection  of  taxes.  This  system  included 
forced  labor  and  the  subordination  of  growing  food  crops  to  cotton. 

Production  Factors 

In  1988  the  entirety  of  Chad's  cotton  was  produced  in  the  five 
soudanian  prefectures  of  Mayo-Kebbi,  Tandjile,  Logone  Occiden- 
tal, Logone  Oriental,  and  Moyen-Chari,  plus  the  Bousso  region 
of  Chari-Baguirmi  Prefecture,  which  juts  down  into  the  soudanian 
zone  (see  fig.  1).  Few  regions  outside  these  prefectures  offered  suffi- 
cient water  and  population  to  sustain  cotton  production.  Moreover, 
in  this  land  of  difficult  transport,  areas  producing  a  cash  crop  also 
needed  to  be  able  to  grow  enough  food  for  their  people.  Typically, 
the  cultivation  of  cotton  and  food  crops  was  carried  on  side  by  side. 
Efforts  to  extend  the  cultivation  of  cotton  to  the  neighboring  sahelian 
prefectures  of  Salamat  and  Guera  have  had  little  success.  In  1983 
and  1984,  with  production  at  its  highest  in  a  decade,  these  two 
prefectures  represented  only  .5  percent  of  total  production. 


96 


Cotton  being  unloaded  from  a  truck  in  Pala,  Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture 

Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

Suggestions  also  have  been  made  from  time  to  time  to  bring  cot- 
ton production  to  the  fertile  borders  of  Lake  Chad.  Trials  have 
shown  the  high  yields  possible  there,  estimated  at  3,000  to  4,000 
kilograms  per  hectare.  As  of  1987,  however,  farmers  in  the  Lake 
Chad  area  had  not  taken  voluntarily  to  cotton  production.  Tradi- 
tionally, farmers  have  resisted  government  efforts  to  control  local 
production  of  such  crops  as  wheat,  and  the  history  of  coercion  and 
government  intervention  associated  with  cotton  was  no  inducement. 

The  government  has  introduced  methods  to  increase  crop  yield, 
which  include  the  expanded  use  of  fertilizers  and  insecticides.  Even 
so,  compared  with  crop  yields  of  more  than  1,000  kilograms  per 
hectare  for  other  francophone  West  African  states  (such  as  Came- 
roon, Mali,  and  Cote  dTvoire),  until  1982  Chad's  crop  yields  did 
not  significantly  exceed  500  kilograms  per  hectare;  from  1983  to 
1987,  yields  averaged  almost  750  kilograms  per  hectare. 

Area  under  cotton  cultivation  reached  a  peak  in  1963  of  338,900 
hectares.  From  1963  until  the  end  of  the  1970s,  the  area  under  cot- 
ton cultivation  averaged  275,000  hectares.  In  the  1980s,  however, 
the  area  has  been  consistently  less  than  200,000  hectares.  By  1983 
the  area  of  land  under  cotton  cultivation  had  dropped  by  36  per- 
cent from  the  average  during  the  1960s  and  1970s.  Several  sources 
estimated  the  area  in  southern  Chad  under  cotton  cultivation  at 
30  to  40  percent  of  all  land  in  cultivation,  and  in  some  areas  of 


97 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture,  it  may  have  been  higher  (see  table  3, 
Appendix  A). 

Cotton  production  has  exhibited  wide  swings.  Factors  such  as 
climatic  conditions,  production  prices,  and  civil  strife  have 
influenced  production.  The  first  crop  to  exceed  100,000  tons  came 
in  1963,  but  the  1970s  were  the  best  years  for  production,  which 
from  1971  to  1978  remained  well  above  100,000  tons  per  year.  Chad 
reached  its  all-time  record  production  in  1975.  Production  suffered 
from  1979  to  1982  because  of  the  Chadian  Civil  War  and  hit  a 
twenty-year  low  in  1981.  In  1983,  with  the  return  of  some  politi- 
cal stability  and  higher  market  prices,  production  improved  but 
then  fell  from  1984  to  1987,  a  reflection  of  declining  world  cotton 
prices. 

Once  the  crop  is  harvested,  the  producers  must  sort  the  cotton 
to  separate  lower  quality  yellow  cotton  from  higher  quality  white 
cotton.  Since  the  late  1970s,  the  proportion  of  white  cotton  gener- 
ally has  been  90  percent  or  more  of  total  production.  Going  back 
to  the  1960s,  the  quality  of  Chadian  cotton  had  been  consistently 
high,  except  for  1972  and  1973,  when  the  proportion  of  yellow  cot- 
ton rose  to  18  percent.  Since  1980  the  quality  has  remained  high 
at  initial  sorting,  with  white  cotton  representing  more  than  95  per- 
cent of  the  crop  and  accounting  for  98  percent  of  production  in  1984. 

Administrative  Structure 

In  1 989  the  official  structure  responsible  for  the  production  and 
marketing  of  cotton  was  composed  of  the  ONDR  under  the  Ministry 
of  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development,  of  Cotontchad,  and  of  the 
Cotton  Price  Stabilization  Board  (Caisse  de  Stabilisation  des  Prix 
du  Coton— CSPC).  Founded  in  1965,  the  ONDR  was  originally 
given  responsibility  to  monitor,  improve,  and  assist  all  agricultural 
production.  By  the  mid-1980s,  however,  the  government's  emphasis 
on  cotton  production  made  the  ONDR  an  important  factor  for  the 
cotton  industry  only.  Cotontchad,  successor  to  Cotonfran,  was 
founded  as  a  parastatal  company  in  1971  to  collect,  buy,  gin,  trans- 
port, and  export  the  cotton  crop.  The  company  also  had  responsi- 
bility for  elements  of  the  small  national  textile,  soap,  and  edible 
oil  industries.  The  CSPC's  task  was  to  stabilize  prices  paid  to 
peasant  producers  by  funding  operating  losses  incurred  by  Coton- 
tchad. Assuring  a  constant  price  to  the  producer  not  only  helped 
maintain  a  certain  level  of  production  for  Cotontchad  but  also 
limited  costs  to  the  company  by  holding  down  producer  prices.  The 
ONDR,  the  CSPC,  Cotontchad,  and  the  government  itself  were 
involved  in  determining  producer  prices.  In  addition,  the  CSPC 
supported  the  program  to  improve  yields.  Between  1971  and  1983, 


98 


Irrigation  farming  near  Mao  in  Kanem  Prefecture 
Courtesy  UNICEF  (Maggie  Murray-Lee) 


99 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


an  estimated  57  percent  of  all  payments  by  the  CSPC  were  made 
in  conjunction  with  the  program  to  improve  cotton  production. 

Other  major  actors  in  the  cotton  industry  were  the  private  banks, 
the  French  Textile  Development  Company  (Compagnie  Francaise 
pour  le  Developpement  des  Textiles — CFDT),  and  French  and 
EEC  institutions,  as  well  as  the  World  Bank.  Private  banks  provided 
the  credits  necessary  to  Cotontchad  and  to  the  peasants  to  finance 
the  opening  of  each  planting  season  and  especially  to  provide  capi- 
tal for  the  import  and  distribution  of  fertilizers  and  insecticides. 
The  CFDT  marketed  Chad's  cotton  on  the  world  market.  The 
CFDT  also  contributed  to  the  smooth  operation  of  Cotontchad 
through  technical  agreements  to  maintain  equipment  and  to  pro- 
vide expertise  in  improving  cropping  methods  through  the  ONDR. 
In  addition,  the  CFDT  supported  research  carried  out  by  the  Cotton 
and  Textile  Research  Institute  (Institut  de  Recherche  sur  le  Coton 
et  les  Textiles — IRCT),  a  small  public  research  facility  located  near 
Doba.  Subsidies  to  Chad's  cotton  production  under  the  Lome  Con- 
vention were  paid  through  the  Stabex  system  (see  Glossary)  of  the 
EEC.  Those  funds  were  channeled  to  the  CSPC  for  price  support 
to  the  producers.  The  CSPC  also  received  portions  of  funds  needed 
to  assure  payments  to  producers  from  Cotontchad  as  well  as  from 
the  central  government.  Between  1971  and  1983,  virtually  all 
income  to  the  CSPC  derived  from  rebates  paid  by  Cotontchad  into 
the  system. 

After  1984  the  system  became  far  more  dependent  on  external 
sources  of  funds  (such  as  Stabex)  because  of  sharply  reduced  income 
to  Cotontchad.  In  addition  to  Stabex,  the  EC's  European  Develop- 
ment Fund  (EDF)  contributed  directly  to  the  program  of  improv- 
ing yields.  French  assistance  remained  crucial  to  the  system.  The 
Central  Fund  for  Economic  Cooperation  (Caisse  Centrale  de 
Cooperation  Economique — CCCE)  was  a  shareholder  in  Coton- 
tchad, and  the  other  arm  of  French  foreign  aid,  the  Cooperation 
and  Aid  Fund  (Fonds  d'Aide  et  de  la  Cooperation — FAC),  directed 
assistance  to  the  southern  zone  in  support  of  the  cotton  complex. 
FAC  also  provided  direct  assistance  to  the  government,  which, 
among  other  things,  helped  pay  the  salaries  of  officials  and  func- 
tionaries, especially  those  in  the  ONDR. 

Pricing  Mechanisms 

Prices  paid  to  Chad's  cotton  producers,  the  peasants  of  the 
southern  soudanian  zone,  have  risen  slowly  over  the  years.  The 
structure  included  separate  prices  for  white  cotton  and  for  yellow 
cotton.  From  1971,  when  the  distinction  arose,  to  1978,  the  price 
for  white  cotton  was  CFA  F50  per  kilogram  (for  value  of  the  CFA 


100 


The  Economy 


F — see  Glossary)  and  stayed  at  this  level  during  much  of  the  period 
of  heavy  civil  conflict  until  1982.  From  1982  to  1985,  the  price 
increased  steeply  to  CFA  F100  per  kilogram,  at  which  point  it  had 
leveled  by  1987,  despite  downward  pressure  because  of  the  fall  in 
world  prices  and  a  new  program  of  cost  reductions  by  Cotontchad 
under  World  Bank  direction.  The  price  paid  for  yellow  cotton  has 
not  kept  pace  with  this  rise,  reaching  only  CFA  F40  per  kilogram 
in  1983,  where  it  remained  through  1987. 

The  price  paid  to  the  producer  traditionally  has  not  covered  actual 
production  costs,  either  for  the  peasant  or  for  Cotontchad.  As  much 
as  50  percent  of  the  costs  of  production  has  been  borne  by  outside 
donors,  primarily  from  the  EDF,  through  the  Stabex  system. 
Between  1981  and  1984,  the  EDF  financed  between  70  and  80  per- 
cent of  the  costs  of  the  program  to  improve  yields,  largely  through 
subsidies  to  the  CSPC  for  price  support  and  subsidies  for  Coton- 
tchad in  the  initial  purchase  of  insecticides  and  fertilizers.  The  costs 
of  improvements  have  been  reimbursed  only  partially  from  pay- 
ments made  by  producers  through  the  ONDR. 

Restructuring  the  System 

By  1987,  because  world  prices  were  still  insufficient  to  recoup 
costs,  Cotontchad  was  rapidly  going  broke.  In  the  mid-1980s, 
annual  net  losses  were  estimated  at  CFA  F18  billion.  Net  losses 
per  kilogram  of  ginned  cotton  were  estimated  at  CFA  F453  in  1985 
and  CFA  F298  in  1987.  These  figures  stood  in  contrast  to  1984, 
when  there  was  a  net  profit  of  CFA  F193  per  kilogram.  Coton- 
tchad's  position  was  not  expected  to  improve  unless  the  world  price 
of  cotton  reached  the  CFA  F600-per- kilogram  range. 

With  World  Bank  backing  and  support  from  France,  the  Nether- 
lands, and  the  EC,  restructuring  of  Cotontchad  began  in  1986  with 
government  implementation  of  the  Emergency  Cotton  Program. 
At  the  producer  level,  the  program  called  for  freezing  the  price  paid 
producers  at  the  CFA  FlOO-per-kilogram  level  through  1988  and 
studying  new  methods  of  fixing  producer  prices  to  reflect  world 
market  conditions.  Subsidies  on  improved  inputs,  such  as  fertilizer 
and  insecticides,  were  eliminated  as  of  1987,  with  producers 
assuming  the  costs.  Cotton  production  was  to  be  limited  to  about 
100,000  tons  by  restricting  the  area  under  production  to  75,000 
hectares  during  the  program  period.  At  the  company  level,  Coton- 
tchad sold  nonessential  assets  to  the  private  sector  (including  2  air- 
craft and  about  150  vehicles),  closed  its  branch  office  in  Bangui, 
Central  African  Republic,  and  laid  off  administrative  staff.  It  also 
closed  six  ginneries  and  reduced  the  number  of  cotton  collection 
centers  in  accordance  with  the  production  target  of  100,000  tons. 


101 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

For  its  part,  the  government  exempted  Cotontchad  from  taxes,  par- 
ticularly export  duties,  and  suspended  its  contributions  to  the 
CSPC,  the  ONDR,  and  the  Debt  Amortization  Fund  (Caisse  Auto- 
nome  d'Amortissement— CAA).  Staffs  at  the  CSPC  and  the  ONDR 
were  reduced,  and  the  roles  of  both  organizations  were  reviewed. 

Subsistence  Farming 

Since  the  1950s,  Chad's  food  production  has  declined  (see  table  4, 
Appendix  A).  Even  so,  despite  pockets  of  malnutrition  remaining 
in  areas  where  rains  failed  or  locusts  damaged  local  crops,  the  overall 
picture  for  Chad's  food  production  was  good  in  the  1985-87  period. 
The  rebound  of  food  production  in  this  period  was  the  result  of 
good  rains,  the  return  of  political  stability,  and  the  absence  of  major 
conflict  in  the  sahelian  and  soudanian  zones.  The  downturn  in  cot- 
ton production  and  added  restrictions  on  its  cultivation  also  released 
lands  and  labor  for  farmers  to  put  into  food  production.  Produc- 
tion was  so  high  in  these  years  that,  for  the  first  time  in  a  decade, 
it  was  estimated  that  Chad  had  returned  to  food  sufficiency.  This 
followed  a  cereal  shortfall  in  the  drought  years  of  1984  and  1985 
of  around  325,000  tons.  Total  cereal  production  rose  thereafter  to 
the  700,000-ton  level,  well  above  the  estimated  615,000  tons  of 
grains  needed  for  food  sufficiency. 

Yet  the  overall  food  sufficiency  registered  by  Chad  in  these  years 
served  to  underscore  the  problem  of  regional  imbalances  in  cereal 
production.  The  sahelian  zone  experienced  a  chronic  shortfall  in 
cereal  production,  whereas  the  soudanian  zone  traditionally  had  a 
cereal  surplus.  The  soudanian  zone  was  also  the  biggest  producer 
of  all  subsistence  food  crops  and  of  cash  crops.  It  was  estimated 
that  the  soudanian  zone  produced  between  53  and  77  percent  of 
Chad's  total  cereal  production- from  1976  to  1985,  with  the  aver- 
age falling  in  the  60-  to  70-percent  range.  But  because  the  popula- 
tions of  the  two  regions  were  approximately  equal,  the  lack  of  a 
good  transport  system  and  marketing  mechanisms  to  allow  the  rapid 
transfer  of  the  southern  surplus  to  the  northern  zones  was  a  con- 
stant problem.  This  danger  was  especially  threatening  during  times 
of  drought  affecting  the  sahelian  zone. 

Sorghum  and  Millet 

Chad's  most  important  subsistence  crops  were  sorghum,  millet, 
and  berebere.  Areas  under  production  for  these  grains  showed  a  down- 
ward trend  after  the  mid-1950s,  dropping  from  an  average  of 
1.5  million  hectares  to  around  1  million  hectares  in  the  1960s 
and  1970s  and  falling  to  levels  averaging  750,000  hectares  between 
1981  and  1986.  Taking  an  average  for  all  lands  devoted  to  grain 


102 


The  Economy 


production  during  the  years  from  1981  to  1985,  according  to  the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (FAO),  sorghum  and  millet 
cultivation  accounted  for  85  percent  of  the  total  area.  Between  1980 
and  1985,  these  coarse  grains  accounted  for  80  to  95  percent  of 
all  grain  production. 

Wheat 

In  1987  wheat  was  Chad's  least  important  cereal  grain.  Farm- 
ers planted  the  crop  in  polders  around  the  shores  of  Lake  Chad, 
and  some  small  planting  also  was  done  in  the  oases  and  wadis  of 
northern  Chad.  Replacing  an  earlier  state  operation,  the  Organi- 
zation for  the  Development  of  the  Lake  (Societe  pour  le  Developpe- 
ment  du  Lac — SODELAC)  was  founded  in  1967  to  organize 
cultivation  and  provide  wheat  for  the  state-owned  flour  mill  at 
N'Djamena,  the  Grands  Moulins  du  Tchad.  The  flour  mill  began 
operations  in  1964  but  closed  in  1980;  as  of  1987,  operations  had 
not  resumed.  In  the  late  1970s,  plans  to  plant  some  20,000  hect- 
ares of  wheat  in  polders  failed  because  warfare  around  Lake  Chad 
affected  the  infrastructure  of  SODELAC  and  the  construction  of 
new  polders  and  because  farmers  resisted  SODELAC -controlled 
production. 

Wheat  production  generally  followed  trends  similar  to  the  produc- 
tion of  other  cereals,  remaining  low  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  but 
reaching  a  high  in  1983.  In  1984,  however,  production  fell  sharply. 
The  bulk  of  wheat  was  traded  through  traditional  channels  to  those 
herders  in  the  northern  regions  of  Chad  who  preferred  wheat  to 
millet  or  sorghum. 

Rice  and  Corn 

At  the  time  of  the  French  conquest,  rice  was  grown  on  a  small 
scale.  Before  World  War  I,  the  Germans  on  the  Cameroon  side 
of  the  Logone  River  encouraged  the  spread  of  rice  cultivation.  By 
World  War  II,  the  French  imposed  cultivation  in  the  areas  of 
southern  Chad  near  Lai  and  Kelo,  along  the  Logone  River. 
Although  production  was  destined  originally  for  colonial  troops, 
the  taste  for  rice  spread  in  some  localities.  What  was  originally 
intended  by  the  French  as  a  commercial  cash  crop  had  become  a 
local  subsistence  crop  by  the  1980s. 

The  Development  Office  for  Sategui  Deressia  (Office  de  Mise  en 
Valeur  de  Sategui-Deressia — OMVSD),  founded  in  1976,  replaced 
Experimental  Sectors  for  Agricultural  Modernization  (Secteurs 
Experimentaux  de  Modernisation  Agricole — SEMAA),  originally 
responsible  for  the  organization,  improvement,  transformation,  and 
commercialization  of  rice.  Efforts  by  these  organizations  to  extend 


103 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


40        50  60 
Percentage 


100 


Chadian  government 
Foreign  private 


Chadian  private 
Foreign  government 


1  National  Sugar  Company  of  Chad  (Societe  National  Sucriere  du  Tchad-SONASUT) 

2  Chadian  Textile  Company  (Societe  Tchadienne  de  Textile--STT) 

3  Logone  Breweries  (Brasseries  du  Logone-BdL) 

4  Cigarette  Factory  of  Chad  (Manufacture  des  Cigarettes  du  Tchad--MCT) 

5  Industrial  Agricultural  Equipment  Company  (Societe  Industrielle  de  Materiel  Agricole  du 
Tchad-SIMAT) 

6  Soft  Drinks  of  Chad  (Boissons  Gazeuses  du  Tchad--BGT) 


Figure  6.  Ownership  of  Chad's  Major  Industries,  1987 


commercial  rice  cultivation  had  mixed  results.  The  area  under  rice 
cultivation  has  increased  since  the  1950s.  Yet  even  in  the  1980s, 
the  greater  part  of  this  area  was  cultivated  by  traditional  means. 
Schemes  for  controlled  paddies  at  Bongor  and  Lai  put  only  3,500 
hectares  and  1,800  hectares,  respectively,  into  cultivation  before 
political  events  of  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s  disrupted  efforts 
and  international  donor  funding  ceased.  The  bulk  of  rice  produc- 
tion from  traditional  floodwater  paddies  was  traded  to  the  towns 
and  cities  or  was  consumed  locally. 

Corn  was  a  crop  of  minor  importance,  grown  in  and  around  vil- 
lage gardens  for  local  consumption.  Production  from  the  late  1960s 
through  the  mid-1980s  remained  in  the  20,000-  to  30,000-ton  range. 
By  1987  no  efforts  at  commercialization  had  been  made,  nor  had 


104 


The  Economy 


the  government  tried  to  improve  and  extend  corn  produc- 
tion. 

Peanuts 

Peanuts  have  become  an  important  food  crop  in  Chad.  Peanuts 
were  eaten  roasted  or  dry,  and  their  oil  was  used  in  cooking.  Peanuts 
were  cultivated  in  both  the  soudanian  and  the  sahelian  zones.  Produc- 
tion of  peanuts  was  more  stable  than  that  of  any  other  major  crop, 
staying  in  the  90,000-  to  100,000-ton  range  from  the  1950s  through 
1987,  with  dips  in  drought  years.  The  area  under  peanut  produc- 
tion also  remained  stable,  although  kilograms-per-hectare  yields 
declined  slightly.  The  drought-resistant  nature  of  peanuts  made 
their  production  particularly  important  for  the  peoples  of  the  sahelian 
zone,  where  peanuts  were  planted  alone  or  in  combination  with 
millet  in  the  first  year  of  rotation;  in  the  soudanian  region,  peanuts 
were  traditionally  planted  in  the  third  year  of  crop  rotation. 

Although  considerable  efforts  were  made  to  commercialize  peanut 
production,  most  efforts  failed.  Through  the  1960s  and  1970s,  about 
97  percent  of  the  annual  crop  went  to  local  consumption.  What 
remained  was  sold  to  various  edible  oil  manufacturing  concerns, 
none  of  which  succeeded.  For  example,  a  Chinese-built  peanut  oil 
mill  at  Abeche,  finished  in  1969,  never  operated.  Local  farmers 
sold  surplus  peanuts  through  traditional  channels,  rather  than  to 
the  state  monopoly  set  up  in  1965,  the  National  Trading  Company 
of  Chad  (Societe  Nationale  de  Commercialisation  du  Tchad — 
SONACOT).  This  parastatal  bought  local  produce  for  sale  abroad 
or  domestically  to  state-run  commercial  operations.  Unlike  Coton- 
tchad,  SONACOT  was  never  given  the  means  to  compel  farmers 
to  sell  their  crops,  and  it  did  not  have  the  resources  to  compete 
with  prices  offered  by  traditional  traders.  With  the  collapse  of  central 
authority  in  1979,  SONACOT  disappeared.  The  only  commer- 
cial sales  of  peanuts  were  then  limited  to  Cotontchad  purchases 
in  the  south,  but  by  1987  these  had  been  halted  to  reduce  costs. 

Tubers 

The  importance  of  tubers  has  grown  dramatically  over  the  years. 
Cassava  and  yams  were  the  most  important  crops  in  this  category, 
with  much  smaller  production  of  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  and  coco 
yams  (taro).  Grown  only  in  the  soudanian  zone,  tubers  were  once 
neglected,  although  such  cultivation  is  widespread  in  other  parts 
of  subtropical  West  Africa.  Estimates  in  the  1950s  put  tuber  produc- 
tion at  50,000  tons  annually.  Production  rose  and  by  1961  it 
exceeded  200,000  tons.  From  1961  to  1984,  the  proportion  of  roots 
and  tubers  in  the  national  diet  rose  from  6  to  17  percent.  The  reason 


105 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


for  this  important  shift  in  eating  habits  among  people  of  the  souda- 
nian  zone  was  the  hedge  these  crops  provided  against  famine  in 
years  when  drought  reduced  millet  and  sorghum  production. 

Livestock 

Livestock  raising,  and  in  particular  cattle  herding,  is  a  major 
economic  activity.  Animal  husbandry  was  the  main  source  of  liveli- 
hood for  perhaps  a  third  of  Chad's  people.  The  growing  impor- 
tance of  cattle  and  meat  exports  underscored  this  point.  In  the  1960s 
and  1970s,  these  exports  were  estimated  at  between  25  and  30  per- 
cent of  all  merchandise  exports.  The  proportion  of  these  exports 
grew  in  the  1980s  as  the  value  of  cotton  exports  declined.  It  was 
impossible,  however,  to  know  with  certainty  the  actual  values  of 
cattle  exports.  For  processed  meat  exports,  less  uncertainty  existed 
because  these  exports  were  controlled  from  the  slaughterhouse  to 
the  point  of  export;  in  1985  processed  meat  exports  represented 
less  than  1  percent  of  all  merchandise  exports.  The  real  value  of 
Chad's  cattle  herds  was  in  the  export  by  traditional  traders  to  mar- 
kets in  Cameroon  and  Nigeria.  These  "on  the  hoof  exports  passed 
largely  outside  the  control  of  customs  services.  Therefore,  these 
exports  were  neither  counted  nor  taxed.  Perhaps  one-fourth  of  cat- 
tle's estimated  30-percent  share  of  total  exports,  was  officially 
recorded. 

The  size  of  Chad's  herds  was  also  difficult  to  determine.  Consid- 
ered to  have  declined  in  the  mid-1970s  and  again  in  the  early  1980s 
because  of  drought  and  warfare  across  the  sahelian  zone,  herds, 
estimated  to  be  growing  at  a  rate  of  4  percent  annually,  reached 
some  4  million  head  of  catde,  4.5  million  sheep  and  goats,  500,000 
camels,  and  420,000  horses  and  donkeys  by  the  mid-1980s.  Sheep 
and  goats  were  found  in  all  regions  of  Chad. 

Before  the  drought  of  the  1980s,  the  sahelian  zone  held  the  larg- 
est herds,  with  about  80  percent  of  the  total  cattle  herd.  Smaller 
numbers  of  cattle  were  found  in  the  soudanian  zone,  along  with  about 
100,000  buffaloes  used  in  plowing  cotton  fields.  Camel  herds  were 
concentrated  in  the  dry  northern  regions.  Herders  practiced  trans- 
humance — seasonal  migrations  along  fairly  well-set  patterns. 

With  the  1984-85  drought,  transhumance  patterns  changed. 
Camels  were  brought  farther  south  into  the  sahelian  zone  in  search 
of  water.  Catde  were  herded  even  farther  south,  sometimes  through 
Salamat  Prefecture  into  Central  African  Republic. 

The  government  and  international  donor  community  had  con- 
templated considerable  improvements  for  Chad's  livestock  manage- 
ment, but  these  plans  were  undermined  by  the  Chadian  Civil  War, 
political  instability,  and  an  inadequate  infrastructure.  The  most 


106 


The  Economy 


successful  programs  have  been  animal  vaccination  campaigns,  such 
as  an  emergency  project  carried  out  in  1983  to  halt  the  spread  of 
rinderpest.  The  campaign  reached  some  4.7  million  head  of  cattle 
across  the  nation  and  demonstrated  the  capabilities  of  Chad's  animal 
health  service  when  given  external  support.  The  Livestock  and 
Veterinary  Medicine  Institute  of  Chad  (Institut  d'Elevage  et  de 
Medecine  Veterinaire  du  Tchad — IEMVT),  which  was  financed 
by  foreign  aid,  was  capable  of  producing  vaccines  for  Chad  as  well 
as  for  neighboring  countries.  Despite  plant  capacity,  by  1984  a  lack 
of  a  trained  staff  limited  production  to  vaccines  for  anthrax  and 
pasteurellosis. 

Two  institutional  efforts  to  manage  cattle  marketing  were 
attempted  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  The  Chadian  Animal  Resources 
Improvement  Company  (Societe  Tchadienne  d' Exploitation  des 
Ressources  Animales — SOTERA),  a  mixed  enterprise  formed  as 
a  livestock  company  with  participation  by  some  traditional  livestock 
traders,  began  operations  in  1978.  Its  aim  was  to  control  live  animal 
exports  through  a  license  system  and  to  have  a  monopoly  on  exports 
of  chilled  meat  and  hides.  It  was  hoped  at  the  time  that  the  associa- 
tion of  traders  to  SOTERA  would  increase  the  effective  collection 
of  export  taxes  on  livestock  by  50  to  75  percent.  By  1984,  however, 
SOTERA  handled  only  a  small  portion  of  the  domestic  market  and 
less  than  30  percent  of  the  export  trade.  A  second  institution,  the 
Center  for  the  Modernization  of  Animal  Production  (Centre  de 
Modernisation  des  Productions  Animales — CMPA),  was  engaged 
in  marketing  dairy  products,  supplying  chicks  to  farmers,  and  over- 
seeing the  sale  of  eggs  and  the  processing  of  feed.  But,  among  other 
problems,  the  CMPA  was  unable  to  compete  with  local  traders  for 
milk  needed  to  produce  cheese  for  sale.  Although  highly  subsidized, 
this  venture  also  was  unsuccessful  and  demonstrated  the  resilience 
of  the  traditional  private  network  for  marketing  produce. 

Despite  these  institutional  difficulties,  the  international  commu- 
nity continued  to  support  efforts  to  expand  animal  health  services 
to  Chad's  herders.  Some  estimates  suggest  that  the  nation's  herds 
could  be  increased  by  35  percent  if  the  distribution  of  water  were 
improved,  extension  services  were  made  more  available,  and  animal 
health  services  were  expanded. 

Fishing 

With  its  two  major  rivers,  Lake  Chad,  and  many  runoff  zones, 
in  the  1970s  Chad  ranked  high  among  Africa's  producers  of  inland 
freshwater  fish.  With  the  drought  and  diversion  of  the  waters  of 
some  rivers,  however,  production  declined  in  the  1980s.  Tradi- 
tionally, fish  has  been  an  important  source  of  protein  for  those  living 


107 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


along  the  rivers  and  lakes,  and  fishing  was  also  a  means  of  earn- 
ing cash.  Because  it  was  practiced  in  an  entirely  traditional  man- 
ner and  totally  outside  the  control  of  government  or  modern 
commercial  enterprises,  there  was  no  accurate  statistical  informa- 
tion on  fishing. 

In  the  1960s,  1970s,  and  1980s,  total  production  of  fish  was  esti- 
mated at  between  60,000  and  120,000  tons  per  year.  But  because 
these  figures  represent  production  for  the  Logone  River  and  Lake 
Chad,  which  are  shared  with  Cameroon,  Niger,  and  Nigeria, 
Chad's  fish  production  amounted  to  an  estimated  70  percent  of 
the  total.  The  largest  part  of  the  catch — perhaps  two-thirds — was 
consumed  locally.  In  areas  adjacent  to  urban  centers,  some 
portion — usually  the  best  of  the  catch,  such  as  large  Nile  perch 
(called  capitaine  in  Chad) — was  marketed  fresh.  Along  Lake  Chad 
and  the  river  borders  with  Cameroon,  the  surplus  catch  was  dried, 
salted,  or  smoked  before  being  sold.  Between  1976  and  1985, 
production  of  dried,  salted,  or  smoked  fish  was  estimated  at  20,000 
tons  annually,  representing  from  20  to  25  percent  of  Chad's  total 
annual- catch.  A  large  share  of  the  commerce  in  preserved  fish  was 
carried  on  with  markets  in  Cameroon  and  Nigeria.  Small  dried 
or  salted  fish  called  salanga  were  most  popular  on  the  markets  of 
Cameroon.  Larger  smoked  fish  called  banda  were  generally  exported 
to  the  major  Nigerian  market  of  Maiduguri. 

Through  the  mid-1980s,  Chad  had  taken  few  steps  to  control 
or  modernize  fishing  or  to  promote  fish  conservation,  although  some 
plans  had  been  made  in  the  1960s  and  1970s.  Perhaps  the  most 
significant  innovation  applied  by  Chadian  fishermen  has  been  their 
use  of  nylon  netting,  which  began  in  the  1960s.  During  the  periods 
of  conflict,  no  government  plans  could  be  carried  out  to  control 
fishing.  Although  considerable  potential  existed  for  the  develop- 
ment of  the  Chadian  fishing  industry,  because  of  insufficient  govern- 
ment interest  traditional  production  and  marketing  of  freshwater 
fish  was  likely  to  remain  unchanged  for  the  near  term. 

Forestry 

Like  most  states  of  the  African  Sahel  (see  Glossary),  Chad  has 
suffered  desertification — the  encroachment  of  the  desert.  Tradi- 
tional herding  practices  and  the  need  for  firewood  and  wood  for 
construction  have  exacerbated  the  problem.  In  the  early  1980s,  the 
country  possessed  between  13.5  million  and  16  million  hectares 
of  forest  and  woodlands,  representing  a  decline  of  almost  14  per- 
cent from  the  early  1960s.  To  what  extent  this  decline  was  caused 
by  climatic  changes  and  to  what  extent  by  herding  and  cutting  prac- 
tices was  unknown.  Regulation  was  difficult  because  some  people 


108 


The  Economy 


traditionally  made  their  living  selling  wood  and  charcoal  for  fuel 
and  wood  for  construction  to  people  in  the  urban  center.  Although 
the  government  attempted  to  limit  wood  brought  into  the  capital, 
the  attempts  have  not  been  well  managed,  and  unrestricted  cut- 
ting of  woodlands  remained  a  problem. 

Manufacturing,  Mining,  and  Utilities 
Manufacturing 

The  small  industrial  sector  was  dominated  by  agribusiness,  and 
Cotontchad  in  particular.  Next  in  importance  were  the  National 
Sugar  Company  of  Chad  (Societe  Nationale  Sucriere  du  Tchad — 
SONASUT),  the  Chadian  Textile  Company  (Societe  Tchadienne 
de  Textile — STT),  the  Logone  Breweries  (Brasseries  du  Logone — 
BdL),  and  the  Cigarette  Factory  of  Chad  (Manufacture  des 
Cigarettes  du  Tchad — MCT).  Observers  estimated  that  these  five 
industries  generated  some  20  percent  of  GDP.  Of  lesser  impor- 
tance were  the  Farcha  Slaughterhouse  (Abattoir  Frigorifique  de 
Farcha),  the  Industrial  Agricultural  Equipment  Company  (Societe 
Industrielle  de  Materiel  Agricole  du  Tchad — SIM  AT),  and  Soft 
Drinks  of  Chad  (Boissons  Gazeuses  du  Tchad — BGT). 

During  the  Chadian  Civil  War,  the  facilities  and  equipment  of 
many  industries  were  badly  damaged.  Most  industrial  operations 
either  ceased  or  were  reduced  greatly,  and  almost  all  foreign  inves- 
tors withdrew  from  the  country.  Those  operations  that  did  con- 
tinue on  a  reduced  scale  were  limited  to  the  soudanian  region,  which 
was  not  involved  directly  in  large-scale  fighting.  By  1983,  with  the 
reestablishment  of  political  stability  on  a  national  scale,  the  five 
major  industrial  concerns  resumed  full  operations,  and  the  less 
significant  ones,  such  as  SIM  AT  and  the  BGT,  were  rebuilt. 

With  the  exception  of  the  two  bottling  companies  (the  BGT  and 
the  BdL),  which  were  privately  owned,  all  the  other  important 
industries  were  either  parastatals  with  majority  government  owner- 
ship or  mixed  companies  with  important  government  participa- 
tion (see  fig.  6).  For  the  most  part,  private  participation  was  limit- 
ed to  French  investors;  investment  by  private  Chadian  interests 
was  extremely  rare.  French  companies  were  also  important  share- 
holders in  the  larger  Chadian  companies,  such  as  Cotontchad. 
Except  for  Cotontchad,  whose  top  management  was  Chadian,  all 
the  other  major  industries  were  run  by  expatriate  directors,  accoun- 
tants, and  mid-level  managers  who,  for  the  most  part,  were  French. 

Industrial  output  grew  rapidly  in  1983  and  1984,  as  industries 
resumed  operations  that  had  been  interrupted  by  war.  By  1984  and 
1985,  prewar  levels  of  output  had  been  either  reached  or  exceeded. 


109 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Growth  slowed  for  all  industries  after  1985,  however,  because  of 
the  dramatic  downturn  of  world  cotton  prices,  and  output  in  1986 
began  to  decline. 

Cotton  fiber  production  by  Cotontchad,  which  directly  reflected 
production  of  raw  cotton,  fell  sharply  in  1985.  This  decline  was 
stabilized  in  1986-87  by  emergency  support  from  international 
donors.  These  donors  prescribed  retrenchment  programs  to  pre- 
vent the  total  collapse  of  the  cotton  industry.  The  restrictions 
imposed  on  the  production  of  ginned  cotton  fiber,  however,  reduced 
by  half  the  number  of  ginning  mills,  with  raw  cotton  production 
limited  to  about  100,000  tons.  Production  of  edible  oils  by  Coton- 
tchad was  also  affected  by  the  program  of  cost  savings. 

Other  industries  were  affected  directiy  by  the  fall  of  cotton  prices. 
STT  textile  production  slowed,  as  did  the  production  of  agricul- 
tural equipment  by  SIM  AT,  which  made  plowing  equipment  for 
use  in  cotton  planting.  Furthermore,  the  drop  in  revenues  to  farmers 
in  the  soudanian  zone  for  their  cotton  and  peanut  production  affected 
their  ability  to  buy  equipment.  Lost  revenues  to  farmers,  along 
with  the  reduction  in  the  numbers  of  workers  needed  in  ginning 
operations,  took  a  toll  on  cash  earnings  and  therefore  on  buying 
power.  By  1986  the  ripple  effect  of  these  lost  revenues  in  the  cot- 
ton sector  was  widespread.  The  downturn  in  production  in  all  indus- 
tries left  Chad  with  considerable  unused  capacity,  ranging  from 
15  to  50  percent. 

A  number  of  other  factors  resulted  in  the  slump  in  Chadian  indus- 
try. Commercial  sale  of  goods  was  low  in  a  largely  cash  poor  or 
nonmonetary  economy.  The  decline  in  the  cotton  sector,  which 
had  provided  the  largest  infusion  of  cash  into  the  economy,  fur- 
ther reduced  consumer  demand.  Another  impediment  to  industry 
was  the  high  local  cost  of  production  compared  with  the  cost  of 
production  in  neighboring  countries.  Factors  that  raised  local 
production  costs  included  high  transportation  costs,  overdependence 
on  imports,  and  restricted  economies  of  scale  for  small  operations. 
Imported  inputs  were  equivalent  to  about  30  percent  of  industrial 
turnover  for  Cotontchad,  the  BdL,  and  the  STT  and  to  about 
60  percent  for  the  MCT.  Local  substitutes  for  inputs  were  often 
more  expensive  than  imported  equivalents.  Imports  were  often  mar- 
keted to  subsidize  local  production  by  a  given  industry.  An  exam- 
ple was  SONASUT's  importing  refined  sugar  at  less  than  local 
production  costs,  selling  it  locally,  and  using  the  proceeds  to  sub- 
sidize sugarcane  production  on  SONASUT  plantations.  Interlock- 
ing relationships  of  production  among  companies  also  kept 
production  costs  high.  For  example,  the  BGT  used  SONASUT's 
refined  sugar  in  its  production  of  soft  drinks,  according  to  a 


110 


The  Economy 


convention  with  the  government  to  use  local  inputs,  even  though 
imported  refined  sugar  was  cheaper. 

Before  the  warfare  of  the  1979-82  period,  Chad's  industrial  sector 
included  between  80  and  100  small-  to  medium-sized  enterprises, 
in  addition  to  the  major  manufacturing  industries.  Most  processed 
agricultural  products  or  competed  in  the  import-export  trade.  About 
half  were  local  subsidiaries  of  foreign-owned  firms  or  were  Chadian 
firms  with  significant  foreign  capital.  The  foreign-owned  distributor- 
ships sold  agricultural  equipment,  construction  materials,  and 
petroleum  products. 

Since  1983  the  return  of  foreign  investment  has  been  slow  because 
of  the  high  costs  of  rebuilding  and  a  continuing  perception  of 
political  uncertainty.  Of  the  approximately  twenty  enterprises  that 
had  reopened  by  the  late  1980s,  most  were  import-export  enter- 
prises that  lacked  a  formal  relationship  with  the  banking  sector. 
Most  Chadian-owned  enterprises  had  managed  to  reestablish  them- 
selves. Yet  by  1986,  small  enterprises  that  had  assembled  bicycles, 
motorcycles,  and  radios  remained  closed. 

The  lack  of  access  to  credit  was  another  impediment  to  business 
expansion  in  Chad.  Despite  the  reopening  in  1983  of  the  Bank  of 
Central  African  States  (Banque  des  Etats  d'Afrique  Centrale — 
BEAC)  and  of  two  commercial  banks,  the  International  Bank  for 
Africa  in  Chad  (Banque  Internationale  pour  l'Afrique  au  Tchad — 
BIAT)  and  the  Chadian  Credit  and  Deposit  Bank  (Banque  Tchad- 
ienne  de  Credit  et  de  Depot — BTCD),  the  high  proportion  of 
available  credit  going  to  Chad's  major  industries  limited  credit  avail- 
able to  smaller  enterprises  (see  Banking  and  Finance,  this  ch.). 
Moreover,  the  banks  invoked  strict  criteria  for  loan  eligibility 
because  of  the  high  risk  of  lending  in  Chad.  Few  owners  of  small 
businesses  knew  sufficient  accounting  and  technical  skills  to  meet 
bank  information  requirements  for  loans. 

Mining 

The  only  mineral  exploited  in  Chad  was  sodium  carbonate,  or 
natron.  Also  called  sal  soda  or  washing  soda,  natron  was  used  as 
a  salt  for  medicinal  purposes,  as  a  preservative  for  hides,  and  as 
an  ingredient  in  the  traditional  manufacture  of  soap;  herders  also 
fed  it  to  their  animals.  Natron  deposits  were  located  around  the 
shore  of  Lake  Chad  and  the  wadis  of  Kanem  Prefecture. 

Natron  occurs  naturally  in  two  forms:  white  and  black.  More 
valuable  commercially,  hard  blocks  of  black  natron  were  exported 
to  Nigeria.  White  natron  was  sold  on  local  markets,  principally 
in  N'Djamena  and  farther  to  the  south.  Although  efforts  were  made 
in  the  late  1960s  to  control  the  commercialization  of  natron  through 


111 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


the  creation  of  a  parastatal,  by  1970  those  efforts  had  failed  because 
of  resistance  by  traditional  chiefs  and  traders  who  controlled  produc- 
tion through  a  system  of  perpetual  indebtedness. 

A  number  of  other  mineral  deposits  are  known,  but  none  had 
been  commercially  exploited  by  the  mid-1980s.  Bauxite  is  found 
in  the  soudanian  zone,  and  gold-bearing  quartz  is  reported  in  Biltine 
Prefecture.  Uranium  is  reported  in  the  Aozou  Strip,  as  are  tin  and 
tungsten  in  other  parts  of  the  Tibesti  Mountains,  but  exploration 
reports  in  1971  for  these  three  minerals  did  not  indicate  large  or 
rich  deposits.  As  of  1987,  conflicts  in  the  region  prevented  further 
exploration. 

By  far  the  potentially  most  important  resource  is  oil.  In  1970 
a  consortium  of  Conoco,  Shell,  Chevron,  and  Exxon  started 
exploration  and  in  1974  discovered  minor  oil  deposits  at  Sedigi, 
near  Rig  Rig,  to  the  north  of  Lake  Chad  (see  fig.  7).  Total  reserves 
at  Sedigi  were  estimated  at  60  million  tons,  or  roughly  438  million 
barrels  of  oil.  Exploration  in  1985  by  the  Exxon-led  consortium 
discovered  potentially  large  deposits  near  Doba  in  the  southern 
region  of  Chad.  Further  efforts  were  suspended  in  1986  when  world 
oil  prices  continued  to  drop,  although  the  consortium  maintained 
a  liaison  office  in  N'Djamena  in  1988. 

Plans  existed  in  the  late  1970s  to  exploit  the  deposits  at  Sedigi 
and  to  construct  a  small  refinery  at  N'Djamena.  Those  plans  lapsed 
during  the  conflicts  of  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s  but  were 
revived  in  1986  by  the  government  with  the  support  of  the  World 
Bank.  The  reasons  for  proceeding  with  plans  to  exploit  these  deposits 
and  build  a  refinery  were  clear.  The  cost  of  importing  petroleum 
products  exceeded  the  cost  of  extracting  and  refining  domestic 
crude,  even  when  international  oil  prices  were  low.  The  plans,  which 
anticipated  operations  to  begin  in  the  early  1990s,  included  well 
development  in  the  Sedigi  field,  a  pipeline  to  N'Djamena,  a  refinery 
with  a  2,000-  to  5,000-barrels-per-day  (bpd — see  Glossary)  capac- 
ity, and  the  transformation  or  acquisition  of  power-generating 
equipment  in  the  capital  to  burn  the  refinery's  residual  fuel  oil. 
The  refinery's  output  would  satisfy  80  percent  of  Chad's  annual 
fuel  needs,  including  all  gasoline,  diesel,  butane,  and  kerosene; 
lubricants  and  jet  fuel,  however,  would  still  have  to  be  imported. 

Water  and  Electricity 

In  the  late  1980s,  public  utilities  in  Chad  were  extremely  limited. 
The  Chadian  Water  and  Electricity  Company  (Societe  Tchadienne 
d'Eau  et  d'Electricite — STEE),  was  the  major  public  utility  com- 
pany. The  government  held  82  percent  of  the  shares  and  CCCE 
held  18  percent.  STEE  provided  water  and  electricity  to  the  four 


112 


The  Economy 


main  urban  areas,  N'Djamena,  Moundou,  Sarh,  and  Abeche.  The 
company  supplied  water,  but  not  electricity,  to  six  other  towns. 
Despite  old  equipment  and  high  maintenance  costs,  STEE  was  able 
to  meet  about  half  of  peak  demand,  which  increased  significantly 
from  1983  to  1986.  Production  of  electricity  rose  by  35  percent  from 
1983  to  1986,  and  the  supply  of  water  increased  by  24  percent  dur- 
ing the  same  period.  In  1986  STEE  produced  62. 1  million  kilowatt- 
hours  of  electricity  and  supplied  10.8  million  cubic  meters  of  water. 

In  N'Djamena  the  majority  of  households  had  access  to  water. 
There  were,  however,  only  about  3,000  officially  connected  cus- 
tomers, a  good  proportion  of  which  were  collective  customers.  There 
were  also  an  estimated  1,500  illegal  water  connections.  The  rest 
of  the  people  received  water  from  standpipes.  Some  5,000  customers 
were  officially  connected  for  electricity  in  the  capital  in  1986,  with 
an  unknown  number  of  illegal  connections.  Because  electricity  was 
so  expensive  and  because  electrical  appliances  were  beyond  the 
means  of  most  people,  the  consumption  of  power  per  household 
was  low.  The  high  cost  of  electricity  also  hindered  the  expansion 
of  small-  and  medium- sized  enterprises. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

As  a  landlocked  state,  Chad  has  no  ports.  The  nearest  ports  were 
all  located  on  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Douala,  Cameroon,  at  1,700 
kilometers  from  N'Djamena  was  the  closest  port.  Furthermore, 
there  were  no  railroads  in  the  country.  Two  ancient  land  routes 
connected  Chad  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea  and  the  Red  Sea.  The 
first,  more  than  3,000  kilometers  across  difficult  desert  tracks,  led 
north  to  Benghazi,  Libya.  The  second,  to  the  Red  Sea  via  Sudan 
to  Port  Sudan,  was  2,600  kilometers  from  Abeche  and  3,350  kilo- 
meters from  N'Djamena.  Neither  route  has  been  used  for  com- 
mercial traffic  in  modern  times.  There  were  only  two  Atlantic  routes 
of  commercial  importance  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  One  was  the 
Nigerian  rail-connected  routes  to  Port  Harcourt  or  Lagos  via 
Maiduguri;  the  other  was  the  Cameroonian  route  to  Douala  via 
rail  from  Ngaoundere.  Because  of  Nigeria's  internal  political  diffi- 
culties and  its  troubled  relations  with  its  neighbors,  the  Nigerian 
route  was  intermittentiy  closed  to  Chadian  traffic  in  the  1980s,  leav- 
ing open  only  the  Cameroonian  route  to  surface  traffic  into  and 
out  of  Chad. 

Until  1985  there  was  no  permanent  bridge  across  the  Chari  River 
to  N'Djamena.  Access  to  N'Djamena  from  Kousseri,  Cameroon, 
was  by  ferry.  When  water  levels  fell  during  the  drought  of  1984 
and  1985,  ferries  sometimes  were  unable  to  make  the  crossing.  To 
alleviate  this  problem,  in  1985  a  pontoon  bridge  was  constructed 


113 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  7.  Economic  Activity,  1987 
114 


The  Economy 


over  the  Chari  River.  A  similar  situation  existed  farther  south 
where,  in  1986,  a  bridge  was  constructed  at  Lere,  across  the  Mayo- 
Kebbi  River.  This  bridge  replaced  ferry  transport,  formerly  the 
only  means  of  crossing,  and  linked  southern  Chad  with  Cameroon. 

The  closest  rail  links  to  Chad  were  the  Nigerian  rail  system  from 
Maiduguri  to  the  ports  of  Lagos  and  Port  Harcourt  and  the  Cam- 
eroon system  from  Ngaoundere  to  Douala.  Both  were  connected 
to  Kousseri  in  Cameroon,  across  the  Chari  River  from  N'Djamena, 
via  all-weather  roads,  then  on  to  Chad  via  the  bridge  over  the  Chari 
(see  fig.  8). 

The  country's  external  traffic  amounted  to  some  350,000  tons 
per  year  in  the  mid-1980s.  For  the  most  part,  this  traffic  was  car- 
ried on  the  road  and  rail  route  to  Douala  via  Ngaoundere.  A  great 
part  of  this  traffic  did  not  leave  Chad  via  the  capital.  Chad's  larg- 
est export,  ginned  cotton,  took  routes  directly  from  the  southern 
region  to  Cameroon  via  Lere  (Chad)  and  Garoua  (Cameroon) 
before  reaching  the  rail  at  Ngaoundere.  Petroleum  products  were 
imported  entirely  by  road,  whether  from  Cameroon  or  from 
Nigeria. 

As  a  member  of  the  Customs  Union  of  Central  African  States 
(Union  Douaniere  des  Etats  d'Afrique  Centrale — UDEAC),  Chad 
exported  and  imported  goods  through  a  free  storage  area  at  Douala. 
The  facility  was  completed  in  1985  with  funding  from  the  EC  and 
served  both  Chad  and  Central  African  Republic.  The  facility  per- 
mitted long-term  storage  of  goods  exported  from  or  imported  into 
Chad.  Agreements  with  Cameroon  under  UDEAC  auspices  allowed 
reductions  of  50  percent  on  port  taxes  and  of  25  percent  on  the 
total  charged  for  handling  costs.  A  quota  for  rail  transport  was  also 
established  whereby  Chadian  importers  and  exporters  paid  only 
65  percent  of  rail  charges  to  transport  their  goods  and  the  remain- 
ing 35  percent  was  assumed  by  Cameroon. 

Land  Transport 

In  1988  the  road  system  in  Chad  remained  deteriorated  or  under- 
developed. At  one  time,  two  paved  roads  linked  the  capital  to  the 
interior:  one  to  Massaguet,  80  kilometers  to  the  northeast,  and  the 
other  to  Gelendeng,  160  kilometers  to  the  south.  Both  roads, 
however,  had  virtually  disappeared  by  1987  because  of  lack  of  main- 
tenance. Of  the  253  kilometers  of  paved  roads  reported  in  1978, 
none  were  still  paved  in  1987.  Chad  had  about  7,300  kilometers 
of  dirt  roads  and  tracks  that  were  partly  maintained;  only  1,260 
kilometers  were  all-weather  roads.  About  24,000  kilometers  of  rural 
marked  tracks  received  no  maintenance  at  all.  Most  of  this  road 
and  track  network  was  passable  only  during  the  dry  season. 


115 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


Considerable  foreign  donor  attention  was  focused  on  land  trans- 
portation problems.  In  addition  to  the  externally  financed  bridges 
constructed  to  allow  passage  to  Cameroon,  the  National  Office  of 
Roads  (Office  National  des  Routes — OFNAR)  under  the  Minis- 
try of  Public  Works,  Housing,  and  Urban  Development  used  tech- 
nical assistance  and  training  financed  by  the  United  States  Agency 
for  International  Development  (AID)  and  the  United  Nations  Inter- 
national Development  Agency  (IDA).  In  1987  three  OFNAR  sub- 
divisions operated  in  N'Djamena,  Sarh,  and  Moundou.  Plans 
existed  to  open  subdivisions  in  Abeche  and  Mongo  as  road  rehabili- 
tation advanced  into  these  areas.  The  National  Quarry  Office 
(Office  National  des  Carrieres — OFNC)  was  created  in  1986  under 
the  Ministry  of  Public  Works,  Housing,  and  Urban  Development 
to  manage  quarry  operations  at  Dandi  (north  of  N'Djamena  near 
Lake  Chad),  using  a  large  crusher  financed  by  AID.  The  crushed 
stone  was  to  be  used  for  road  improvements. 

Government  plans  for  the  rehabilitation  of  the  national  road  net- 
work called  for  the  reconstruction  of  3,800  kilometers  of  priority  roads 
from  1987  to  1992.  In  1987  about  2,000  kilometers  were  receiving 
spot  repairs.  The  network  of  priority  roads  would  reestablish  the 
all-weather  links  between  the  capital  and  Sarh  via  Gelendeng  and 
Niellim.  It  would  also  connect  Sarh  to  Lere  via  Moundou  in  the 
south  and  N'Djamena  to  Am  Timan  via  Bokoro  and  Mongo.  The 
reconstruction  and  maintenance  of  the  system  would  depend  on  the 
success  of  IDA-  and  AID-funded  efforts  to  restore  the  capabilities 
of  the  OFNAR  and  to  start  the  operation  of  the  Dandi  quarry. 

Domestic  freight  traffic  amounted  to  approximately  265,000  tons 
per  year  in  the  early  1980s.  More  than  100,000  tons  of  this  traffic 
was  in  the  southern  regions,  which  included  the  transport  of  the 
cotton  crop  from  collection  points  to  ginning  mills  and  then  to  points 
of  export.  The  transport  of  food  in  normal  nondrought  years  aver- 
aged around  50,000  tons  annually.  The  internal  transport  of  petro- 
leum products  represented  some  25,000  tons  annually  of  the  total 
domestic  freight,  with  the  distribution  of  beer,  sugar,  and  miscel- 
laneous consumer  goods  making  up  the  balance. 

Transport  during  the  rainy  season  was  difficult,  particularly 
between  the  capital  and  sahelian  and  soudanian  zones.  To  avoid  the 
swollen  rivers  and  runoffs,  Chadian  traffic  often  was  forced  to  pass 
by  way  of  Cameroon,  taking  all-weather  and  paved  roads  via 
Maroua  from  Lere  or  Bongor  and  then  on  to  Kousseri  and 
N'Djamena.  Travel  in  the  rainy  season  via  Maroua  to  Mayo-Kebbi 
Prefecture  was  a  day  or  day-and-one-half  journey;  the  internal  route 
south  from  N'Djamena  toward  Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture  could  take 
two  weeks  or  longer. 


117 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


The  main  transport  carriers  in  Chad  in  1987  were  the  Coopera- 
tive of  Chadian  Transporters  (Cooperative  des  Transporteurs 
Tchadiens — CTT),  Cotontchad,  and  the  United  Nations  Develop- 
ment Programme  (UNDP)  Emergency  Food  Programme  trans- 
port fleet.  The  CTT  was  an  association  of  private  truck  owners 
having  a  government-granted  monopoly  on  all  internal  and  exter- 
nal transport,  except  for  the  operations  of  Cotontchad  and  other 
parastatals  with  private  trucking  fleets.  In  1985  the  CTT  had  382 
members,  who  owned  580  trucks  with  a  total  capacity  of  16,700 
tons,  as  well  as  108  tanker  trucks  for  fuel  transport  with  a  capacity 
of  3,427  cubic  meters.  The  CTT  transported  some  150,000  tons 
of  dry  cargo  and  an  estimated  8,700  cubic  meters  of  petroleum 
products  in  the  same  year.  Not  all  transporters  participated  in  the 
cooperative.  Trucks  with  capacities  of  five  tons  or  less  carried 
unrecorded  but  significant  amounts  of  goods  over  short  distances. 

Cotontchad,  which  was  not  a  member  of  the  CTT,  was  the  sin- 
gle largest  carrier  in  Chad.  In  1985  it  operated  about  260  heavy 
trucks  and  another  100  light-  to  medium-weight  vehicles  that  trans- 
ported the  cotton  crop  from  collection  points  to  ginning  operations 
and  on  to  export  terminals.  In  1986,  as  a  part  of  the  emergency 
restructuring  program  to  reduce  transport  costs,  the  company  sold 
about  eighty  of  its  large  tractor  trailer  trucks  to  the  CTT,  which 
was  expected  to  take  responsibility  for  the  long-distance  import- 
export  movement  of  the  cotton  crop. 

The  UNDP  fleet  in  1985  consisted  of  240  trucks  to  transport 
emergency  food  during  the  drought.  In  1987  the  number  of  UNDP 
trucks  fell  to  about  150,  and  these  trucks  were  underused.  In  the 
late  1980s,  the  fleet  brought  supplies  and  food  to  remaining  pock- 
ets of  malnutrition,  especially  to  those  areas  hit  by  locust  infesta- 
tions. The  government  was  anxious  to  maintain  this  fleet  for  use 
during  any  renewed  drought,  despite  the  overcapacity  and  possi- 
ble competition  the  fleet's  operations  might  pose  for  the  CTT. 

By  1987  overall  trucking  capacity  exceeded  demand  for  domes- 
tic and  import-export  transport.  Much  of  the  fleet  was  also  mis- 
matched for  domestic  needs,  being  either  oversized  or  suited  more 
for  the  paved  and  all-weather  roads  leading  into  the  country. 
Moreover,  many  trucks  were  in  poor  condition.  To  compound  the 
problem,  there  were  insufficient  maintenance  and  support  facili- 
ties available  to  keep  vehicles  in  good  repair.  Studies  were  under 
way  in  1987  to  improve  this  situation,  with  particular  attention 
to  breaking  up  the  CTT's  monopoly. 

Air  Transport 

Chad  was  regularly  served  by  two  international  air  carriers  in 


118 


The  Economy 


1987,  Air  Afrique  and  the  French-owned  Air  Transport  Union 
(Union  des  Transports  Aeriens — UTA).  These  carriers  shared  four 
flights  weekly  through  Chad's  only  international  airport,  at 
N'Djamena,  with  connections  to  Paris  twice  weekly  and  also  south 
to  Bangui  and  Brazzaville  twice  weekly.  N'Djamena's  airport  was 
capable  of  receiving  the  largest  aircraft,  including  Boeing  747  and 
Airbus  passenger  airplanes  used  by  the  two  carriers,  and  giant  cargo 
aircraft  such  as  the  C-5A  used  in  military  supply.  The  airport  was 
rehabilitated  after  armed  hostilities  in  1980  and  1981  destroyed  all 
control  and  support  facilities.  Rehabilitation  included  widening  and 
extending  the  runway.  Other  smaller  regional  carriers  handled 
traffic  to  Khartoum  (Air  Sudan)  and  to  Douala  (Cameroon 
Airlines).  Chad's  own  airline,  Air  Tchad,  served  internal  routes 
to  Abeche,  Sarh,  and  Moundou  and  to  other  points  on  an  occa- 
sional basis.  In  1987  Air  Tchad  was  equipped  with  a  nineteen- seat 
Twin  Otter  and  a  forty-four- seat  Fokker  27.  Internal  traffic  also 
was  served  by  several  small  four-  to  six-passenger  aircraft  owned 
privately  or  by  international  organizations.  In  addition  to  the  air- 
port at  N'Djamena,  smaller  fields  at  Abeche,  Sarh,  and  Moun- 
dou were  capable  of  receiving  small  jet  traffic  and  propeller  aircraft. 
Small  dirt  strips  were  also  located  in  several  towns  throughout  the 
country. 

Communications 

Chad's  telecommunications  system  was  one  of  the  least  devel- 
oped in  Africa.  International  telecommunications  were  conducted 
by  the  parastatal  International  Telecommunications  Company  of 
Chad  (Societe  de  Telecommunications  Internationales  du  Tchad — 
STIT)  under  the  responsibility  of  the  Ministry  of  Posts  and  Tele- 
communications. Telephone  and  telex  service  between  Paris  and 
N'Djamena  assured  communications  with  the  international  com- 
munity. No  direct  links,  however,  existed  in  1986  between  Chad 
and  its  African  neighbors;  all  telecommunications  passed  via  Paris. 
Some  internal  telephone  service  connected  Abeche,  Moundou, 
Sarh,  and  N'Djamena.  The  only  means  of  internal  communica- 
tions was  by  shortwave  radio.  Postal  service  via  air  between  Paris 
and  N'Djamena  existed.  However,  postal  service  beyond  the  capi- 
tal, except  to  Moundou  and  Sarh,  was  limited.  In  1987  international 
mail  had  to  be  delivered  to  the  central  post  office  in  the  capital  a 
day  before  the  next  scheduled  flight  to  Paris  to  assure  delivery.  Mail 
arriving  in  N'Djamena  was  posted  to  boxes  at  the  central  post  office 
for  pickup  by  box  owners.  No  delivery  was  available  to  residences 
or  businesses,  all  official  addresses  in  the  capital  being  post  office 
boxes. 


119 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Trade  and  Commerce 

Historically,  Chad  has  been  a  country  of  traders.  The  ancient 
kingdoms  of  Kanem,  Borno,  and  Wadai  built  their  power  on  trade 
with  Libya,  Egypt,  and  Sudan  (see  Era  of  Empires:  A.D.  900-1900, 
ch.  1).  During  the  colonial  period,  trade  increased  with  franco- 
phone countries  and  Nigeria.  In  the  1970s,  the  structure  and  direc- 
tion of  external  trade  remained  similar  to  the  pattern  of  colonial 
times,  the  most  important  trading  partners  being  France  and 
Nigeria.  Exports  to  France  were  principally  cotton  fiber,  and 
imports  were  finished  manufactured  goods  and  equipment.  Much 
of  the  trade  with  Nigeria,  consisting  of  cattle,  fish,  natron,  and 
other  traditional  products,  was  unrecorded  and  did  not  pass  through 
official  channels.  Since  the  civil  upheavals  of  the  late  1970s  and 
early  1980s,  which  restricted  all  external  trade,  unofficial  trade  with 
Nigeria  has  resumed.  Official  trade  with  France  declined  after  1982, 
primarily  because  many  French-affiliated  firms  closed  during  the 
conflicts.  As  of  late  1987,  many  of  those  concerns  had  not  reopened. 

Controlling  smuggling  and  black  market  activity  was  very 
difficult.  Chad  and  its  neighbors  had  few  resources  that  could  be 
devoted  to  border  control.  Collusion  among  smugglers  and  border 
patrols  and  customs  agents  was  common.  Moreover,  Chad's 
unofficial  trade  with  Nigeria,  Cameroon,  and  Central  African 
Republic  has  historical  and  social  roots.  Tribal  and  extended  family 
connections  across  borders  encouraged  traders  to  maintain  long- 
range  commercial  and  financial  networks  beyond  colonial  and,  later, 
national  government  control  and  taxes.  Traders  unofficially 
exported  the  bulk  of  Chad's  exports  of  cattle,  fish,  and  other  tradi- 
tional products.  Unofficial  imports  consisted  of  petroleum  products 
and  consumer  goods,  such  as  sugar,  cooking  oil,  soap,  and  ciga- 
rettes, that  competed  with  production  by  national  industries.  The 
permeability  of  Chad's  borders  and  the  informality  of  traditional 
trading  networks  denied  the  government  revenues  ordinarily 
derived  from  export-import  duties.  Locally  produced  goods  and 
legal  imports  fared  badly  in  this  market,  burdened  as  they  were 
with  high  production  costs,  lack  of  economies  of  scale,  and  price 
distortions  imposed  by  government  controls. 

Exports 

The  bulk  of  Chad's  official  exports  were  agricultural  products, 
which  have  accounted  for  80  to  95  percent  of  all  exports  since 
independence.  Of  these  exports,  cotton  fiber  was  most  important, 
followed  by  cattle  and  beef  exports.  The  value  of  Chad's  cotton 
fiber  exports  rose  steadily  in  the  1970s  (see  Cotton,  this  ch.).  During 


120 


The  Economy 


the  early  1980s,  as  armed  conflict  took  its  toll  on  cotton  produc- 
tion, the  value  of  cotton  fiber  exports  dropped.  The  return  of 
political  stability  in  1983  and  increased  cotton  production  coincided 
with  a  rise  in  world  cotton  prices,  resulting  in  dramatic  increases 
in  the  value  of  Chad's  cotton  exports  in  1983  and  1984.  The  value 
of  these  exports  more  than  doubled  from  1982  to  1983  and  almost 
doubled  again  in  1984. 

The  downturn  of  world  cotton  prices  in  1985  caused  a  collapse 
in  cotton  exports.  The  value  of  cotton  fiber  exports  from  Chad  in 
1985  was  less  than  half  that  of  the  record  1984  level;  the  value  fell 
even  further  in  1986.  In  1984  cotton  fiber  had  represented  73  per- 
cent of  the  value  of  all  Chad's  exports,  but  in  1986  it  represented 
only  43  percent.  The  value  of  all  exports  also  reflected  the  decline, 
falling  from  a  high  in  1984  of  almost  CFA  F48  billion  to  around 
CFA  F34  billion  in  1986. 

The  estimated  value  of  Chad's  cattle  exports  remained  more 
stable  from  1983  to  1986.  As  the  value  of  cotton  fiber  exports 
declined,  the  relative  importance  of  cattle  exports  to  the  Chadian 
economy  grew. 

Imports 

Since  the  late  1960s,  the  economic  significance  of  imported 
manufactured  and  capital  goods  has  grown  considerably.  From  1967 
to  1970,  manufactured  goods  of  all  types  accounted  for  46  to 
50  percent  of  Chad's  imports.  By  1975  manufactured  goods 
accounted  for  65  percent  of  imports.  The  total  value  of  all  imports 
also  grew,  doubling  between  1965  and  1970  to  almost  CFA  F13 
billion.  Total  imports  continued  to  grow  through  1978  to  nearly 
CFA  F36  billion  before  showing  a  serious  decline  from  1979  to  1981 
because  of  the  heavy  fighting.  Imports  increased  after  1982,  reach- 
ing around  CFA  F37  billion  in  1983  and  then  doubling  by  1985. 
The  leap  in  imports  between  these  years  reflected  not  only  the 
increase  in  imported  manufactured  and  capital  goods  needed  to 
rebuild  the  shattered  economic  infrastructure  but  also  an  increase 
in  food  assistance  in  these  years  of  drought.  The  downturn  of 
imports  between  1985  and  1986  indicated  in  part  a  decline  in  food 
imports  with  the  return  of  good  rains. 

Direction  of  Trade 

Throughout  the  1960s — Chad's  first  decade  of  independence — 
France  remained  its  most  important  official  trading  partner.  In  1970 
France  absorbed  73  percent  of  Chad's  exports  and  provided  some 
40  percent  of  Chad's  imports.  Between  1979  and  1985,  Chad  diver- 
sified its  markets  by  trading  more  actively  with  Spain,  the  Federal 


121 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany),  and  particularly  Portu- 
gal, which  absorbed  the  bulk  of  Chad's  exports,  mainly  cotton  fiber. 
By  1985  France  ranked  sixth  behind  Portugal,  West  Germany, 
Cameroon,  Spain  and  the  Benelux  countries  (Belgium,  The  Nether- 
lands and  Luxembourg;  see  table  5,  Appendix  A).  Chad's  exports 
of  beef  and  other  traditional  products  to  its  neighbors,  and  espe- 
cially to  Nigeria,  did  not  appear  in  official  trade  figures. 

Although  losing  significance  as  a  customer,  France  remained 
Chad's  most  important  supplier.  In  1985  France  supplied  almost 
one-fourth  of  Chad's  total  imports.  The  United  States  ranked 
second,  followed  by  Cameroon,  Italy,  and  the  Benelux  countries; 
unspecified  West  European  countries  accounted  for  about  2 1  per- 
cent of  Chad's  imports  in  1985.  Chad  had  little  trade  with  Middle 
Eastern  and  North  African  countries.  Both  official  and  black  mar- 
ket oil  imports  came  from  either  Cameroon  or  Nigeria.  Chad  had 
no  declared  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  or  East  European  countries. 

Balance  of  Payments  and  Finance 

Balance  of  Payments 

With  the  exception  of  the  1979-81  period,  which  were  years  of 
heavy  conflict  when  collapsed  imports  were  offset  by  some  con- 
tinued cotton  exports,  Chad  has  run  deficits  in  its  trade  balance 
since  the  1960s  (see  table  6,  Appendix  A).  The  size  of  these  deficits 
depended  on  the  world  cotton  market.  In  1984,  when  Chad  had 
high  export  earnings  as  a  result  of  record  cotton  production  and 
high  world  cotton  prices,  the  trade  deficit  was  modest.  The  fol- 
lowing year,  when  world  cotton  prices  fell,  production  declined. 
Export  earnings  from  cotton  were  half  those  of  1984,  and  total 
export  earnings  on  all  goods  dropped  by  one-third.  Problems  with 
the  cotton  sector  continued  in  1986  and  1987.  World  cotton  prices 
remained  low,  and  the  fall  in  the  value  of  the  United  States  dollar 
aggravated  the  situation  because  world  cotton  prices  were  quoted 
in  dollars.  At  the  same  time  that  export  earnings  dropped,  Chad's 
imports  rose.  The  value  of  imports  increased  by  almost  40  percent 
in  1985.  A  large  part  of  this  rise  resulted  from  oil  exploration,  which 
was  only  partially  offset  by  direct  investments  in  Chad  by  the  oil 
drilling  companies.  Increased  imports  of  fertilizers  and  insecticides 
for  Cotontchad's  expanded  program  to  improve  production  in  those 
years  also  contributed  to  the  trade  deficit.  The  net  result  of  these 
events  was  that  the  modest  trade  deficits  of  1983  and  1984  grew 
into  large  deficits  in  1985  and  1986. 


122 


A  ferry  over  the  Chart  River 
Courtesy  Audrey  Kizziar 
Trucks  carrying  medical  supplies  over  dirt  tracks  in  the  sahelian  zone 

Courtesy  UNICEF  (Maggie  Murray-Lee) 


123 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Banking  and  Finance 

Chad  has  been  a  member  of  the  BEAC  since  independence.  The 
BE  AC,  with  the  backing  of  the  French  treasury,  served  as  the  central 
bank  of  its  member  states:  Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic, 
Chad,  Congo,  Equatorial  Guinea,  and  Gabon.  Consequendy,  Chad 
has  adhered  to  the  Franc  Zone,  using  as  currency  the  African  Finan- 
cial Community  franc,  (Communaute  Financiere  Africaine — CFA; 
for  value  of  the  CFA  franc — see  Glossary).  Use  of  the  CFA  franc, 
which  was  tied  to  the  value  of  the  French  franc  (FF)  at  CFA  F50 
to  FF1,  gave  Chad  a  stable,  convertible  currency.  This  factor 
spurred  trader  confidence  in  the  value  of  the  currency  and  in  the 
ability  to  convert  to  hard  currency  acceptable  as  payment  for 
imports.  It  was  particularly  helpful  to  the  economy  to  have  a  stable 
currency  backed  by  regional  and  international  cooperation  and  not 
subject  to  political  whim  as  governments  and  coalitions  fought  for 
power  in  Chad.  Reconstruction  after  1982  would  have  been  far 
slower  and  more  difficult  had  currency  value  suffered  the  volatility, 
inflation,  and  distrust  of  traders  so  often  encountered  in  other  Third 
World  nations. 

All  banking  offices  closed  in  1979  and  1980  when  N'Djamena 
was  the  scene  of  heavy  fighting.  The  BEAC  reopened  in  1981  along 
with  the  BIAT,  the  BTCD,  and  the  Development  Bank  of  Chad 
(Banque  de  Developpement  du  Tchad — BDT).  Only  the  Interna- 
tional Bank  for  Commerce  and  Industry  in  Chad  (Banque  Inter- 
nationale pour  le  Commerce  et  l'lndustrie  du  Tchad — BICIT)  had 
failed  to  reopen  by  late  1987,  leaving  Chad  with  only  three  banks 
plus  the  central  bank.  Of  the  three  banks,  only  the  BIAT — the  local 
subsidiary  of  the  French-owned  International  Bank  for  West  Africa 
(Banque  Internationale  pour  l'Afrique  Occidentale — BIAO)  was 
totally  under  private  ownership.  The  government  and  the  French 
bank  Credit  Lyonnais  shared  joint  ownership  of  the  BTCD,  along 
with  some  other  smaller  investors.  The  BDT  was  the  principal 
government-controlled  bank  for  development  purposes;  it  received 
considerable  support  from  the  CCCE,  a  key  arm  of  French  foreign 
assistance  programs. 

In  Chad  the  flow  of  credit  and  cash  traditionally  followed  the 
rhythm  of  the  cotton- growing  season.  Cotontchad,  by  law  required 
to  buy  all  cotton  produced  at  preset  prices,  made  short-term  loans 
from  the  banks  before  planting  each  year  to  import  materials  for 
its  cultivation  improvement  programs  and  to  pay  the  producers 
for  their  crops  at  harvest.  The  credit  portfolios  of  Chad's  banks 
reflected  this  situation.  In  1986  almost  90  percent  of  the  claims  on 
banks  were  short-term  loans,  more  than  70  percent  of  which  were 


124 


The  Economy 


consigned  to  Cotontchad.  Overall,  Cotontchad  claimed  64  percent 
of  all  credit  available  to  the  economy.  In  1984,  with  rising  cotton 
production  and  good  world  prices,  credit  extended  by  the  BE  AC 
expanded  quickly.  This  credit  permitted  an  adequate  level  of  indus- 
trial and  consumer  imports  but  drained  the  BEAC's  exchange 
reserves.  With  the  collapse  of  world  cotton  prices  in  1985,  Coton- 
tchad's  revenues  dropped,  and  foreign  exchange  flowing  into  Chad 
declined.  As  a  result,  the  BEAC's  exchange  reserves  dropped 
precipitously  in  1986.  Operations  in  the  banking  sector  ground  to 
a  halt  as  Cotontchad  fell  into  arrears  on  repayments  of  its  short- 
term  debt.  In  late  1986,  the  BEAC  negotiated  a  rescheduling  of 
about  three-fourths  of  the  short-term  debt,  allowing  a  ten-year  matu- 
rity, including  a  five-year  grace  period  with  an  interest  rate  of 
6  percent.  The  solution  neither  reduced  the  exposure  of  the  pri- 
vate banks  for  loans  to  Cotontchad  nor  direcdy  improved  the  general 
credit  situation  for  other  potential  borrowers,  especially  the  small  - 
and  medium-sized  enterprises  that  often  were  squeezed  out  of  the 
market.  It  did,  however,  save  Chad's  banking  structure  and  Coton- 
tchad from  immediate  collapse  by  buying  time  for  longer-term  solu- 
tions to  be  formulated  with  the  aid  of  foreign  donors. 

No  mechanisms  existed  for  extending  credit  directly  to  farmers 
beyond  assistance  for  cotton  production.  Before  the  Chadian  Civil 
War,  the  BDT  and  the  ONDR  extended  credit  on  a  limited  basis, 
as  did  the  government's  Rural  Action  and  Development  Fund 
(Fonds  de  Developpement  et  d'Action  Rurale — FDAR).  But  these 
credits  for  marketing  agricultural  products  were  not  repaid,  and 
the  FDAR  ceased  operations  in  1981 .  In  1985  the  government  cre- 
ated the  Fund  for  Rural  Intervention  (Fonds  d 'Intervention 
Rurale — FIR)  to  replace  the  FDAR.  Through  1987  the  govern- 
ment was  unable  to  fund  the  FIR,  and  the  international  donor  com- 
munity did  not  provide  agricultural  credit  on  a  sectoral  level  other 
than  for  cotton,  which  impeded  Chad's  intention  to  diversify  its 
agricultural  economy.  In  1986  the  World  Bank  financed  a  study 
and  a  long-term  technical  assistance  program  to  determine  credit 
needs  and  options  for  the  design  of  an  appropriate  system  of  rural 
credits.  These  actions  were  taken  in  cooperation  with  other  insti- 
tutions, such  as  the  ONDR  (extension  services)  and  SIMAT  under 
the  authority  of  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Rural  Develop- 
ment. 

In  1983  the  government  imposed  a  five-year  moratorium  that 
froze  all  deposits  and  outstanding  credits  before  1980.  The  morato- 
rium's purpose  was  to  prevent  a  run  on  banks  and  to  staunch  capi- 
tal flight  when  banks  restored  operations  in  early  1983  under  the 
new  government.  The  impact  of  the  moratorium  was  twofold.  On 


125 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


the  one  hand,  it  served  to  reduce  credit  available  to  the  economy 
because  entrepreneurs  were  unable  to  withdraw  assets  for  invest- 
ment or  operations.  On  the  other  hand,  the  amount  of  frozen  credits 
was  more  than  double  that  of  frozen  deposits,  so  the  action  pro- 
tected other  businesses  from  service  on  debts  during  the  hard  times 
of  recovery. 

The  longer-term  financial  situation  was  bleak.  The  problem  of 
interest  payments  to  the  BEAC  for  rediscounted  credits,  which  made 
up  the  majority  of  frozen  credits,  compounded  by  Cotontchad's 
difficulties  in  meeting  its  debt  obligations  to  the  banks,  seriously 
strained  Chad's  banking  system. 

Government  Finances 

In  1983  the  Ministry  of  Finance  produced  its  first  central  govern- 
ment budget  in  four  years.  By  1986  the  government  had  adopted 
a  standardized  nomenclature  that  resulted  in  more  effective  manage- 
ment of  revenues  and  expenditures  throughout  government  minis- 
tries. The  government  also  initiated  measures  to  improve  tax 
administration,  including  the  reorganization  of  customs  inspections 
in  the  capital,  the  creation  of  tax  enforcement  teams  and  tax  offices 
in  secondary  cities,  and  greater  control  over  records  for  the  larg- 
est tax-paying  enterprises.  The  State  Control  (Controle  d'Etat), 
an  autonomous  auditing  unit  directly  attached  to  the  presidency, 
performed  audits  and  investigations  throughout  public  agencies  and 
enterprises  to  deter  fraud  and  misuse  of  public  funds. 

Chad's  public  sector  was  small  compared  with  the  size  of  the 
economy.  In  1977  total  government  revenues  amounted  to  about 
9  percent  of  GDP.  The  deficit  of  2.6  percent  of  GDP,  although 
low  when  compared  with  such  figures  for  other  nations,  was 
nevertheless  significant  because  the  figure  represented  one-third 
of  total  government  revenues  in  that  year.  In  absolute  terms, 
revenues  and  expenditures  were  small  but  increasing  from  1983 
through  1985.  The  small  size  of  government  was  a  consequence 
of  its  reestablishment  after  the  conflicts  ended  in  1982  and  the 
limited  resources  of  administration.  The  government's  preference 
for  a  liberal  economy,  with  the  public  sector  a  complement  to,  and 
not  a  substitute  for,  the  private  sector,  also  helped  to  hold  down 
the  size  of  the  central  administration.  The  sharp  increases  in 
expenditures  and  revenues  from  1983  to  1985  reflect  the  reinstitu- 
tion  of  government  operations  after  1982  and  the  increases  in  cotton- 
generated  revenues  during  these  years  of  good  crops  and  high  world 
cotton  prices.  The  equally  sharp  decline  in  revenues  in  1986 
reflected  the  drop  in  world  cotton  prices  and  the  halt  in  Coton- 
tchad's contributions  to  the  central  treasury  through  duties  on  cotton 


126 


The  Economy 


exports.  In  the  mid-1980s,  expenditures,  elevated  by  defense  spend- 
ing and  the  needs  of  a  stable  administration,  first  stagnated  and 
then  dropped  somewhat.  The  reduction,  however,  did  not  keep 
pace  with  declining  revenues,  resulting  in  a  90  percent  increase 
in  the  deficit  in  1986. 

During  the  same  year,  under  terms  of  the  Emergency  Cotton 
Program,  Cotontchad  ceased  all  fiscal  contributions  to  the  govern- 
ment. The  government's  challenge  was  to  control  the  fiscal  deficit 
in  the  absence  of  cotton  revenues  either  by  cutting  expenditures 
or  by  generating  additional  revenues.  There  was  little  room  for 
movement  on  the  expenditure  side.  Military  outlays  and  salaries 
of  government  employees  were  the  largest  budget  items.  Defense 
spending  was  highly  unpredictable  and  unlikely  to  be  reduced 
quickly  in  the  face  of  continued  insurgency  in  the  north.  The  offi- 
cially declared  defense  expenditures  were  between  34.5  and 
37.6  percent  of  government  spending  from  1984  to  1986  (see 
Defense  Expenditures,  ch.  5).  Clearly,  however,  such  figures 
represented  only  a  part  of  total  military  spending,  which  may  have 
been  as  high  as  70  percent  of  government  expenditures. 

Government  salaries  were  also  difficult  to  reduce.  The  reinsti- 
tution  of  administrative  government  activities  in  1982  brought  the 
number  of  civil  servants  to  between  20,000  and  23,000  by  1985. 
This  increase  reflected  not  only  the  government's  renewal  of  opera- 
tions but  also  its  policy  of  national  reconciliation.  In  part,  that  policy 
guaranteed  positions  to  the  most  important  former  civil  servants — 
largely  those  from  the  southern  regions — who  wanted  to  reenter 
government  service.  In  the  1985-86  period,  the  government  paid 
civil  servants  only  60  percent  of  their  salaries,  based  on  salary  scales 
set  in  1967.  Although  salaries  for  civil  servants  were  low,  the  govern- 
ment was  often  unable  to  finance  the  whole  wage  bill  without 
external  budget  support,  and  it  often  delayed  payments  until  dis- 
bursements were  covered  by  international  donors. 

Expenditures  on  government  goods  and  services  were  low,  as 
evidenced  by  the  general  scarcity  of  basic  equipment  and  supplies 
in  government  offices.  Civil  servants  often  functioned  without  desks, 
chairs,  paper,  and  such  office  equipment  as  typewriters  and  copy- 
ing machines.  Moreover,  cutting  expenditures  for  parastatals 
achieved  no  savings  because  the  government  did  not  subsidize  their 
operations  directly.  The  parastatals  relied  on  their  own  sources  of 
local  revenues  or  foreign  donor  support.  Donors  also  financed  public 
investment  and  a  large  part  of  recurrent  costs  associated  with 
development  projects. 

The  government's  financial  resources  consisted  of  fiscal  revenues, 
special  funds,  and  exceptional  taxes.  The  small  size  of  Chad's 


127 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

modern,  monetary  sector  limited  the  tax  base.  With  the  fall  of  world 
cotton  prices  and  reduced  production  and  income  both  to  Coton- 
tchad  and  to  peasant  producers,  the  tax  base  shrank  even  more 
in  1985.  In  the  mid-1980s,  relatively  few  economic  agents  bore  the 
tax  load.  Taxes  were  derived  particularly  from  the  five  major 
industries — Cotontchad  (exempted  in  1986),  the  STT,  the  BdL, 
SONASUT,  and  the  MCT.  Their  burden  included  (in  order  of 
importance)  import-export  duties,  excise  taxes,  corporate  taxes, 
and  turnover  taxes.  In  1986  fiscal  revenues  amounted  to  5  percent 
of  GDP,  compared  with  9  percent  in  1977  and  15  percent  in  the 
peak  year  of  1971.  This  percentage  compared  unfavorably  with 
those  in  some  other  African  states,  such  as  Central  African  Republic 
(12  percent),  Mauritania  (22  percent),  and  Senegal  (19.5  percent). 

In  1984  the  government  first  imposed  exceptional  taxes  to  finance 
national  reconstruction.  All  salaried  employees,  whether  in  govern- 
ment or  in  the  private  sector,  were  taxed  one  month's  salary.  In 
1985  the  government  repeated  the  effort  to  combat  the  effects  of 
drought  and  in  1987  introduced  a  variable  tax  to  support  the  war 
effort.  Although  these  taxes  placed  a  burden  on  taxpayers,  the 
government  did  not  account  for  these  taxes  in  the  official  budget. 

Several  special  funds  either  collected  taxes  on  behalf  of  the  govern- 
ment or  derived  revenues  from  their  own  activities.  The  two  most 
important  funds  were  the  CSPC,  and  the  Petroleum  Products  Fund 
(Fonds  d'Intervention  des  Produits  Petroliers— FIPP).  The  CSPC's 
mandate  included  stabilizing  producer  prices  for  cotton  furnished 
to  Cotontchad,  financing  the  deficit  of  Cotontchad,  and  playing 
a  part  in  industrial  and  commercial  operations  of  the  cotton  sec- 
tor. The  plan  called  for  80  percent  of  any  Cotontchad  surplus  to 
go  to  the  CSPC,  with  Cotontchad  retaining  the  remainder.  Any 
Cotontchad  deficit  was  to  be  financed  by  the  CSPC.  From  1972 
through  1984,  Cotontchad  transferred  about  CFA  F21  billion  to 
the  CSPC.  The  CSPC,  however,  did  not  finance  Cotontchad's 
deficits,  which  were  particularly  acute  after  1985.  Rather,  the  CSPC 
used  its  resources  to  subsidize  the  ONDR  and  the  IRCT  to  invest 
in  other  public  enterprises  and  to  finance  its  own  administrative 
costs.  Since  1986,  under  the  Emergency  Cotton  Program,  Coton- 
tchad ceased  contributions  to  the  CSPC,  which  no  longer  played 
its  mandated  role.  FIPP  was  set  up  to  equalize  petroleum  import 
prices  from  Nigerian  and  Cameroonian  sources,  so  that  Chad  would 
not  become  overly  dependent  on  either  source  for  its  fuel  supplies. 
FIPP  was  to  tax  cheaper  Nigerian  imports,  thereby  subsidizing 
Cameroonian  imports,  breaking  even  in  the  process.  But  the  sys- 
tem never  worked  properly  and  ultimately  led  to  considerable  fraud, 
with  cheaper  Nigerian  imports  often  receiving  subsidies  after  leaving 


128 


The  Economy 


Cameroon.  Poor  border  control  also  contributed  to  FIPP's  inability 
to  stabilize  and  equalize  imports  and  prices  on  petroleum.  In  1987 
the  government,  along  with  the  donor  community,  were  review- 
ing the  roles  of  these  two  institutions. 

The  National  Debt  and  Foreign  Assistance 
National  Debt 

The  CAA  was  responsible  for  servicing  Chad's  external  public 
debt.  The  CAA  collected  revenues  not  included  in  the  government 
budget  to  service  the  debt.  Those  revenues  consisted  mostly  of  unit 
taxes  on  manufactured  goods  and  taxes  on  the  profits  of  industry, 
banks,  and  the  surpluses  of  other  special  funds.  In  1985  and  1986, 
losses  of  revenues  from  the  cotton  sector  also  affected  the  CAA's 
revenues.  In  1986  the  CAA  compensated  by  imposing  new  taxes 
on  other  industries,  and  it  also  strengthened  its  administration  and 
collection  abilities. 

From  1980  to  1985,  Chad's  annual  external  debt  averaged 
US$169  million  (see  table  7,  Appendix  A).  In  1987  Chad's  public 
and  publicly  guaranteed  debt  (outstanding  and  disbursed)  stood 
at  about  US$206  million,  amounting  to  25  percent  of  GDP.  Three- 
fourths  of  the  debt  was  given  on  concessional  terms;  two-thirds  of 
this  amount  was  owed  to  multilateral  creditors,  and  one- third  was 
owed  to  bilateral  donors.  One-fourth  of  the  debt  represented  non- 
concessional  loans  that  predated  the  1979-82  conflict  and  were  owed 
to  suppliers,  private  financial  institutions,  and  certain  bilateral  credi- 
tors, such  as  Kuwait.  Even  before  hostilities  escalated  in  1979, 
Chad's  credit-worthiness  was  low  and  through  1987  was  insuffi- 
cient to  tap  private  financial  markets.  Only  official  creditors  lent 
to  Chad.  The  volume  of  lending  was  low  in  the  1983-85  period, 
but  in  1986  the  World  Bank  resumed  lending,  and  France  increased 
its  lending.  In  1987  lending  on  concessional  terms  to  Chad  reached 
pre- 1977  levels  of  about  US$40  million  a  year.  Chad's  actual  debt 
service  ratio — as  a  proportion  of  export  earnings  on  goods  and 
services — was  low  in  1986,  standing  at  1.5  percent.  When  payments 
on  arrears  and  the  BEAC  payments  to  the  IMF  (which  were  to 
be  transferred  to  the  CAA  in  1988)  were  added,  Chad's  total  debt 
service  ratio  stood  at  between  5  and  7  percent.  Although  consid- 
ered low  by  most  standards,  this  situation  created  a  heavy  burden 
for  the  CAA  and  the  Chadian  government.  For  the  1987-89  period, 
Chad  faced  scheduled  debt  service  on  existing  loans  of  between 
US$10  and  US$13  million  per  year,  more  than  double  the  amount 
the  government  was  able  to  pay  in  the  1985-87  period.  Debt  ser- 
vice of  US$10  million  represented  about  15  percent  of  expected 


129 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

government  revenues  in  1987,  not  including  unsettled  existing 
arrears.  The  CAA's  efforts  to  increase  revenues  by  instituting  new 
taxes  and  by  improving  administration  were  encouraging  through- 
out 1987.  In  late  1987,  observers  were  unable  to  predict  how  Chad 
would  cope  with  its  long-term  debt  problems,  especially  in  the  face 
of  a  shrinking  tax  base,  which  was  exacerbated  by  difficulties  in 
the  cotton  industry. 

Foreign  Assistance 

Since  independence,  all  of  Chad's  several  governments  have 
relied  on  foreign  assistance  to  meet  current  expenses,  to  finance 
government  and  trade  deficits,  to  combat  drought  and  famine,  to 
wage  war,  and  to  rebuild  from  the  ravages  of  war.  France  provided 
the  most  aid,  with  some  also  from  multinational  organizations,  such 
as  the  EEC,  the  United  Nations  (UN),  and  the  World  Bank,  and 
from  bilateral  donors,  such  as  the  United  States,  Italy,  and  West 
Germany.  Donor  assistance  has  fluctuated.  It  fell  during  the  con- 
flicts of  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  particularly  from  1979 
through  1982.  Some  donors,  such  as  the  United  States,  halted  all 
aid  between  1980  and  1982,  when  Goukouni  Oueddei,  who  was 
supported  by  Libya,  held  power  (see  Transition  to  Northern  Rule, 
ch.  4).  France,  however,  continued  to  provide  some  form  of  non- 
military  aid  to  Chad  throughout  the  period,  but  it  was  channeled 
to  the  south  and  not  to  the  central  government.  As  other  donors 
pulled  out,  the  share  of  French  aid  relative  to  all  official  aid  to  Chad 
rose  from  23.6  percent  in  1978  to  42.2  percent  in  1980.  In  1982, 
as  other  donors  returned,  the  proportion  of  French  aid  to  all  offi- 
cial aid  to  Chad  began  to  decline,  amounting  to  only  18  percent 
by  1985.  Despite  this  relative  decline  and  the  increased  aid  from 
other  donors,  especially  UN  organizations  and  the  United  States, 
France  remained  Chad's  most  important  donor,  both  in  absolute 
terms  and  as  a  percentage  of  total  official  aid,  for  all  years  except 
1985.  In  that  year,  the  World  Food  Programme  (WFP)  was  Chad's 
single  largest  donor  because  of  drought;  that  aid,  therefore,  con- 
sisted of  food  aid  and  not  development  assistance. 

Because  of  drought  between  1983  and  1985  and  because  of  the 
needs  of  recovery  from  the  dislocations  of  war,  foreign  aid  in  these 
years  focused  on  emergency  assistance.  Famine  relief,  health,  and 
sanitation  formed  the  base  of  this  assistance,  with  funds  also  directed 
to  correcting  the  most  basic  logistics  problems  of  food  delivery  to 
the  country.  As  the  rains  improved  in  1985,  resulting  in  good  har- 
vests, a  shift  away  from  emergency  operations  toward  longer-range 
development  planning  began.  Budget  support  also  increased  after 
1985  in  response  to  lost  government  operating  revenues  because 


130 


A  tailor  plies  his  trade  on 
a  street  in  N'Djamena 
Courtesy  Joseph  Krull 


of  the  cotton  crisis.  By  1987  about  85  percent  of  estimated  aid  flows 
provided  for  development  assistance,  and  12  percent  supported  the 
budget.  Disbursements  of  food  aid  fell  from  the  high  of  176,000 
tons  in  1985,  when  the  international  community  responded  to 
drought  across  Africa,  to  an  estimated  1987  shipment  of  30,000 
tons,  used  as  food  security  reserves  to  relieve  chronic  pockets  of 
malnutrition.  The  shift  in  emphasis  accompanied  a  rise  in  overall 
disbursements,  which  were  expected  to  reach  US$250  million  in 
1987. 

Almost  all  of  Chad's  external  assistance  during  the  ten  years 
before  1986  was  on  concessional  terms.  After  1986,  however,  the 
proportion  of  loans  compared  with  grants  increased  significantly. 
In  the  1983-85  period,  with  emphasis  on  emergency  aid  in  health 
and  nutrition,  loans  represented  only  9  percent  of  aid  disburse- 
ments. In  1986,  with  the  shift  to  project  development  assistance, 
renewed  World  Bank  lending,  and  the  need  to  target  money  to  the 
cotton  sector,  loans  increased  to  14  percent  of  total  aid  disburse- 
ments. In  1987  donors  were  expected  to  increase  the  proportion 
of  loans  in  overall  aid  to  as  much  as  33  percent,  all  on  a  conces- 
sional basis. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  foreign  donors  financed  all  public  investment 
in  Chad.  Recurrent  costs  also  were  financed  by  donors,  in  large 
part  for  programs  and  projects  to  rehabilitate  the  economy  and  to 
provide  basic  social  services  in  health  care  and  education.  Roughly 


131 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


half  of  the  projected  aid  disbursements  in  1987  supported  public 
investment  to  rebuild  and  expand  the  nation's  socioeconomic 
infrastructure;  about  19  percent  supported  recurrent  costs  of  the 
government,  and  about  21  percent  supported  operating  costs  of 
the  parastatals. 

A  sectoral  analysis  of  projected  aid  in  1987  showed  about  32  per- 
cent of  donor  assistance  targeted  to  infrastructure,  26  percent  to 
rural  development,  22  percent  to  industry  and  energy,  and  16  per- 
cent to  social  services,  including  health  and  education.  Regional 
distribution  of  aid  for  the  same  year  proposed  about  16  percent 
of  project  assistance  to  the  capital  and  its  environs,  21  percent  to 
the  sahelian  zone,  26  percent  to  the  soudanian  zone,  and  37  percent 
to  projects  cutting  across  regions.  For  ethnic  and  humanitarian  rea- 
sons, several  large  donors  concentrated  their  efforts  in  particular 
regions  of  the  nation.  Italy  focused  its  aid  in  the  Kanem  and  Lac 
prefectures,  the  EDF  on  Chari-Baguirmi  Prefecture,  and  West  Ger- 
many on  Mayo-Kebbi  and  Ouaddai  prefectures. 

The  terms  of  aid  disbursements  projected  for  1987  were  consis- 
tent with  past  trends  and  took  into  consideration  the  financial  con- 
straints on  the  Chadian  government  and  economy.  Approximately 
two- thirds  of  donor  aid  consisted  of  grants.  The  remaining  one- 
third  of  loans  came  almost  entirely  from  multilateral  organizations 
on  concessional  terms.  Overall,  40  percent  of  the  disbursements 
in  1987  came  from  bilateral  donors,  with  France  the  largest  (24  per- 
cent), followed  by  Italy  (11  percent),  the  United  States  (6  percent), 
and  West  Germany  (4  percent).  The  multilateral  organizations 
accounted  for  55  percent  of  disbursements,  of  which  the  IDA  was 
the  largest  contributor,  providing  15  percent.  Other  UN  organiza- 
tions provided  11  percent,  and  EC  agencies  gave  12  percent. 

By  1986  the  international  donor  community,  led  by  the  World 
Bank  and  the  IMF,  recognized  the  need  for  concerted  action  in 
Chad.  Once  the  drought  ended  and  essential  reconstruction  from 
war  damage  had  begun,  the  widespread  economic  dislocation  caused 
by  Cotontchad's  difficulties  forced  the  government  and  its  donors 
to  consider  long-term  structural  adjustments  for  the  whole  economy. 
The  adoption  of  the  Emergency  Cotton  Program  in  1986  could 
only  stave  off  short-term  collapse  and  enable  Cotontchad  to  posi- 
tion itself  better  until  world  prices  improved.  Diversification  away 
from  dependence  on  the  cotton  complex  in  agriculture,  industry, 
and  finance  was  essential.  For  the  long  term,  incentives  had  to  be 
found  to  stimulate  other  sectors  of  the  economy. 

In  1987  the  government  agreed  to  medium- term  adjustment 
targets  through  1990.  As  a  result,  the  IMF  began  providing  budget 
support  to  Chad,  and  the  World  Bank  provided  project  assistance, 


132 


The  Economy 


as  a  part  of  a  comprehensive  package  that  included  support  from 
other  donors.  These  coordinated  efforts  at  adjustment  focused  on 
defining  and  implementing  sectoral  strategies  for  cotton,  noncot- 
ton  agriculture,  livestock  production  and  marketing,  rural  credit, 
reforestation,  transportation,  and  human  resources  and  training. 
Studies  to  implement  comprehensive  programs  to  rehabilitate 
government  fiscal  policies  and  management,  to  develop  priorities 
for  government  investment  programs,  and  to  address  questions  rela- 
tive to  the  operations  of  parastatals  and  public  institutions,  along 
with  the  management  of  public  domestic  and  foreign  debt,  were 
all  part  of  the  package.  On  the  one  hand,  fiscal  and  management 
practices  would  be  tightened.  On  the  other  hand,  the  private  sec- 
tor would  be  encouraged  by  the  loosening  of  monopoly  operations 
by  public  institutions. 

*    *  * 

As  of  late  1987,  there  were  few  sources  that  addressed  Chad's 
economy,  and  no  single  book  dealt  comprehensively  with  the  topic. 
Economic  information,  however,  could  be  found  in  general  sources, 
the  focus  of  which  was  most  often  political.  The  best  books  were 
in  French  and  included  Jean  Cabot  and  Christian  Bouquet's  Le 
Tchad:  Que  sais-je?,  Christian  Bouquet's  Tchad:  La  genese  d'un  con- 
flit,  as  well  as  Gali  Ngothe  Gatta's  Tchad:  Guerre  civile  and  desagrega- 
tion  de  Vetat.  Among  the  few  English-language  sources  was  Michael 
P.  Kelley's  A  State  in  Disarray,  which  contains  a  good  section  on 
the  impact  of  foreign  assistance  on  economic  development. 

Several  periodicals  provided  valuable  data  on  the  Chadian  econ- 
omy in  the  1980s.  These  periodicals  include  Marches  tropicaux  et 
mediterraneens;  Bulletin  de  I'Afrique  noire,  Africa  Economic  Digest,  and 
the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  quarterly  reports.  Occasional  arti- 
cles in  Revue  tiers-monde  and  Courier  were  also  helpful. 

Publications  of  international  organizations  and  government  agen- 
cies provided  much  of  the  detail  lacking  in  general  narratives; 
however,  figures  often  conflicted  because  of  differing  methods  of 
compilation.  These  publications  were  produced  by  the  United 
Nations,  World  Bank,  International  Monetary  Fund,  United  States 
Agency  for  International  Development,  and  a  number  of  French 
government  agencies.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


133 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


A  view  of  the  Fountain  of  Unity  in  N'Djamena 


SEVERAL  THREADS  OF  CONTINUITY  ran  through  Chad's 
political  development  during  its  first  twenty-eight  years  of  indepen- 
dence that  began  in  1960.  Dominated  by  a  series  of  authoritarian 
regimes,  most  under  military  rule,  Chad  had  no  representative 
national  institutions  in  1988.  Its  ruling  party,  the  National  Union 
for  Independence  and  Revolution  (Union  Nationale  pour  l'lndepen- 
dance  et  la  Revolution — UNIR)  was  organized  by  the  government 
in  1984;  UNIR  leaders  were  appointed  by  the  president  from  among 
government  officials,  and  the  party  served  primarily  to  reinforce 
government  policy.  By  late  1988,  UNIR  had  not  opened  the  political 
process  to  democratic  participation. 

Political  fragmentation  also  characterized  Chad's  political  devel- 
opment since  independence.  The  Islamic  northern  and  central 
regions  and  the  colonially  exploited  south  Were  divided  by  regional 
stereotypes  rooted  in  their  past,  which  included  centuries  of  slave 
raids  from  the  north.  Subregional,  religious,  cultural,  and  individual 
differences  complicated  major  regional  divisions. 

Chad's  diverse  population  was  drawn  into  power  struggles  in 
the  drive  for  independence  following  World  War  II.  Numerous 
political  parties  and  coalitions  sought  foreign  assistance  to  bolster 
weak  popular  support.  The  nation's  first  independent  regime  grew 
increasingly  repressive  during  its  fifteen  years  in  power  as  its  leader, 
Francois  Tombalbaye,  attempted  to  pacify  this  fractious  popula- 
tion and  transform  southern  economic  domination  into  political 
control.  Several  dissident  groups,  most  from  the  northern  and  cen- 
tral regions,  united  under  the  National  Liberation  Front  of  Chad 
(Front  de  Liberation  Nationale  du  Tchad— FROLIN AT),  but  this 
coalition,  too,  was  plagued  by  factional  strife. 

In  the  early  1970s,  Tombalbaye  contributed  to  his  own  eventual 
downfall  by  implementing  the  authenticite  movement,  an  ill-conceived 
campaign  that  sought  to  impose  southern-based  ritual  traditions 
on  the  nation's  civil  service.  The  resulting  cycle  of  public  protest 
and  government  repression  culminated  in  a  1975  coup,  in  which 
Tombalbaye  was  killed.  His  successor,  Felix  Malloum,  continued 
the  pattern  of  concentrating  political  power  in  the  executive  branch 
of  government  but  was  persuaded  to  bring  rebel  leaders  Goukouni 
Oueddei  and  Hissein  Habre  into  his  government.  Their  rebel  forces 
eventually  proved  stronger  than  Malloum 's  army,  and  he  was  forced 
out  of  office  in  1979.  His  successor,  Goukouni,  was  the  first  of 
Chad's  insurgent  leaders  to  become  president  of  Chad. 


137 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


A  series  of  unsuccessful  coalition  governments  oversaw  Chad's 
descent  into  a  state  of  civil  war.  The  major  coalition,  the  Transi- 
tional Government  of  National  Unity  (Gouvernement  d' Union 
Nationale  de  Transition — GUNT),  was  led  by  Goukouni,  whose 
relatively  conciliatory  style  of  governing  contrasted  with  the  previous 
pattern  of  authoritarian  regimes.  His  critics  considered  him  weak 
and  indecisive,  and  he  was  strongly  influenced  by  Libyan  leader 
Muammar  al  Qadhafi,  whose  primary  aims  were  to  install  a  sym- 
pathetic Muslim  leader  in  Chad,  expand  Libya's  influence  in  the 
region,  and  reduce  Western  influence  across  the  continent. 

A  salient  feature  of  Chad's  foreign  policy  since  independence 
has  been  foreign  intervention — especially  by  Libya,  Chad's  aggres- 
sive neighbor  to  the  north,  and  France,  the  former  colonial  power. 
Libya  took  advantage  of  Chad's  instability  in  the  early  1970s  to 
press  its  claim  to  the  Aozou  Strip  (see  Glossary)  in  northern  Chad, 
based  on  centuries  of  close  ties  among  border  populations  and  an 
unratified  1935  Franco- Italian  agreement,  which  had  been  ignored 
by  intervening  governments.  French  ties  with  Chad,  based  on 
historical,  commercial,  political,  and  strategic  interests,  rivaled  those 
of  Libya,  and  the  Aozou  Strip  provided  an  arena  in  which  this 
rivalry  could  be  pursued.  In  addition,  neighboring  countries,  espe- 
cially Sudan  and  Nigeria,  also  took  an  active  role  in  events  in  Chad, 
hoping  to  achieve  a  favorable  balance  of  power  in  the  region.  Other 
Central  African  and  West  African  states  sought  to  contain  Chad's 
violence  and  avoid  being  caught  up  in  the  spreading  instability. 

Chad's  political  shifts  in  the  early  1980s  resulted  from  interna- 
tional fears  of  Libyan  intervention  through  influence  in  Goukouni 's 
regime,  France's  revised  African  policy  following  the  Socialist 
Party's  election  victory  in  1981,  and  military  gains  by  Habre.  Habre 
had  served  in  governments  led  by  Tombalbaye,  Malloum,  and 
Goukouni,  and  he  had  led  insurgencies  against  all.  Finally  in  1982, 
with  loyal  northern  forces  and  French  and  United  States  support, 
Habre  ousted  Goukouni  and  proclaimed  himself  president  of  Chad. 

Habre' s  patrimonial  state  was  another  authoritarian  regime.  A 
written  constitution  empowered  him  to  appoint  almost  all  high  offi- 
cials and  reduced  the  legislative  branch  to  a  token  assembly.  He 
determined  the  pace  and  direction  of  activity  in  all  branches  of 
government.  At  the  same  time,  Habre  gained  popular  support  by 
stabilizing  Chad  and  working  to  establish  peace.  He  also  began 
to  reintroduce  social  services  to  a  population  for  whom  warfare  had 
been  the  most  noticeable  sign  of  government  activity. 

In  1988  factional  dynamics  in  Chad  still  resembled  precolonial 
politics.  Habre  was  a  master  strategist  in  this  arena,  and  he  suc- 
ceeded in  winning  over  numerous  former  opponents  through 


138 


Government  and  Politics 


combined  military  and  political  means.  Nevertheless,  the  threats 
of  new  rifts  among  allies  and  of  future  alliances  among  enemies 
still  existed,  in  keeping  with  the  model  of  the  segmentary  political 
systems  that  had  dominated  the  region  for  centuries. 

To  strengthen  existing  ties  among  former  opponents  and  to  mobi- 
lize grass-roots  support  for  his  government,  Habre  proclaimed  his 
intention  in  1988  to  transform  the  ruling  party,  UNIR,  into  a  peo- 
ple's vanguard  party.  Many  people  in  outiying  areas  were  still  skep- 
tical of  the  need  for  an  increased  governmental  presence,  however, 
and  many  southerners  still  considered  national  government  a  north- 
ern imposition.  Both  problems  underlined  the  political  challenge 
that  faced  Chad  as  the  1990s  approached. 

Political  Background 
Preindependence  Factions 

Chad  became  part  of  French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique  Equatori- 
ale  Franchise — AEF;  see  Glossary)  in  1905  and  became  a  separate 
colony  within  the  AEF  in  1920  (see  Arrival  of  the  French  and 
Colonial  Administration,  ch.  1).  Colonial  policy  exploited  the  agri- 
cultural potential  of  the  south,  exacerbated  regional  animosities 
that  were  the  result  of  centuries  of  slave  raids  from  the  north,  and 
failed  to  prepare  Chadian  citizens  for  self-rule.  During  World  War 
II,  the  colonial  governor  general,  Felix  Eboue,  brought  Chad  to 
international  attention  by  leading  the  AEF  in  support  of  Charles 
de  Gaulle's  Free  French  movement. 

After  the  war,  Gabriel  Lisette  and  other  political  activists,  includ- 
ing Francois  Tombalbaye,  established  the  Chadian  Progressive 
Party  (Parti  Progressiste  Tchadien — PPT).  The  PPT  protected 
southern  interests  in  competition  with  the  more  influential  Chadian 
Democratic  Union  (Union  Democratique  Tchadienne — UDT). 
The  UDT  was  dominated  by  expatriates,  who  treated  Chad's 
political  arena  as  a  forum  for  debate  over  events  in  Paris  (see 
Decolonization  Politics,  ch.  1). 

More  than  two  dozen  political  parties  and  coalitions  arose  to 
oppose  this  Eurocentric  view  of  local  politics  and  to  compete  with 
the  UDT  and  the  PPT.  These  groups  were  generally  aligned  as 
southerners,  northerners  who  sought  to  share  in  the  nation's 
economic  development,  other  northerners  who  opposed  moderni- 
zation, and  socialist  groups  who  hoped  to  replace  the  European- 
dominated  economy  with  one  oriented  more  toward  local  needs. 
Further  fragmentation  occurred  along  subregional  and  religious 
lines  and  over  the  question  of  the  future  role  of  expatriates  in  Chad. 


139 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Chad's  1946  constitution  declared  it  an  overseas  territory  of 
France.  As  French  citizens,  its  people  elected  representatives  to  a 
territorial  assembly,  which  in  turn  elected  delegates  to  a  French 
General  Council  for  the  AEF  and  to  several  governing  bodies  in 
France.  Chadians  demanded  further  political  rights,  however, 
including  training  in  administrative  and  technical  areas  that  would 
lead  to  self-government  and  the  right  to  set  their  own  political 
agenda  independent  of  other  francophone  states.  The  PPT  won 
a  plurality  in  the  Territorial  Assembly,  and  Lisette  became  head 
of  the  first  government  established  under  the  hi  cadre  of  1956,  an 
enabling  act  that  made  Chad  an  autonomous  republic  within  the 
French  Community,  instituted  universal  suffrage,  and  established 
a  single  electoral  roll. 

Demands  for  greater  local  control  of  politics  led  to  dramatic 
political  shifts  in  the  late  1950s.  The  UDT,  attempting  to  shed  its 
expatriate  emphasis,  was  reorganized  and  renamed  Chadian  Social 
Action  (Action  Sociale  Tchadienne — AST).  The  AEF  was  dissolved 
in  1958  amid  rising  African  demands  for  autonomy.  A  series  of 
unstable  provisional  governments  followed  the  ouster  of  Lisette  as 
the  PPT's  leader  in  1958.  His  successor,  Tombalbaye,  became  head 
of  the  Territorial  Assembly  in  1959  and  head  of  the  nation's  first 
independent  government  in  August  1960. 

Southern  Dominance,  1960-78 

Tombalbaye  banished  Lisette  and  many  of  his  supporters  from 
Chad  and  eliminated  Lisette 's  power  base  by  dividing  the  Logone 
region  of  the  south  into  three  prefectures.  Tombalbaye  openly  dis- 
criminated against  the  north,  ignored  the  growing  national  politi- 
cal awareness  that  was  evident  during  the  postwar  years,  and 
established  a  repressive  regime  that  contributed  to  Chad's  frag- 
mentation during  his  fifteen-year  tenure  as  president. 

Major  regional  rifts  were  complicated  by  intraregional  divisions, 
especially  in  the  north,  where  numerous  warlords,  each  with  an 
ethnic-based  following  or  cadre  of  supporters,  attempted  to  over- 
throw Tombalbaye 's  regime.  In  1966  northern  rebels  united  as  the 
FROLINAT.  They  established  bases  in  Sudan  and  received  assis- 
tance from  Algeria  and  Libya,  but  FROLINAT,  too,  was  divided 
over  military  and  political  issues,  attitudes  toward  Libya,  interpreta- 
tions of  Islam,  and  individual  leadership  style  (see  The  FROLINAT 
Rebellion,  1965-79,  ch.  5).  An  important  split  occurred  in  1969 
between  northern  factions  and  those  from  Chad's  eastern  and  cen- 
tral regions,  which  had  dominated  the  group  for  three  years.  North- 
ern factions  went  on  to  form  FROLINAT' s  Second  Liberation 
Army  (see  Appendix  B). 


140 


The  headquarters  of  the  PPT,  with  President  Frangois  Tombalbaye3 s 

picture  on  the  sign 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

Tombalbaye  expelled  French  troops  from  Chad  but  otherwise 
perpetuated  the  dependence  established  under  colonial  rule.  He 
employed  French  advisers  in  many  government  posts  and  allowed 
France  to  control  most  of  the  nation's  financial  operations.  Tom- 
balbaye also  strengthened  presidential  authority  and  resisted  recom- 
mendations of  his  expatriate  advisers,  who  urged  him  to  decentralize 
authority  to  provincial  officials  and  traditional  leaders.  Rather  than 
assuage  northern  grievances  or  pacify  the  increasingly  numerous 
rebel  armies,  Tombalbaye  responded  with  repression.  He  dissolved 
the  National  Assembly  in  1963  and  eliminated  rival  political  parties. 
He  also  jailed  outspoken  critics  and  closed  down  most  public  media. 
His  repressive  style  and  rebel  violence  were  mutually  reinforcing, 
leading  Tombalbaye  to  recall  French  troops. 

Amid  increasing  destabilization  in  the  early  1970s,  Tombalbaye 
sought  first  to  protect  southern  interests.  He  implemented  the  authen- 
ticity movement,  an  ill-conceived  campaign  (modeled  on  that  of 
Zairian  president  Mobutu  Sese  Seko)  that  deemed  southern  cul- 
tural characteristics  more  authentic  than  those  of  the  north. 
Opponents  successfully  exploited  public  outrage  when  Tombalbaye 
required  civil  servants  to  undergo  yondo — traditional  initiation  rites 
indigenous  only  to  his  ethnic  constituency  among  the  Sara  popu- 
lation of  the  south  (see  Classical  African  Religions,  ch.  2).  Weak 


141 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


efforts  to  pacify  the  north  by  granting  limited  autonomy  to  tradi- 
tional leaders  and  releasing  prominent  political  prisoners  served 
only  to  recruit  new  dissidents. 

After  Muammar  al  Qadhafi  seized  power  in  Libya  in  1969,  he 
exploited  Chad's  instability  by  stationing  troops  in  northern  Chad 
and  by  channeling  support  to  Chadian  insurgents.  Although 
Tombalbaye  expelled  Libyan  diplomats  in  1971 ,  blaming  them  for 
inciting  a  coup  attempt  and  inspiring  unrest,  in  general  he  sought 
a  balance  between  concessions  and  resistance  to  Qadhafi 's  regional 
designs,  hoping  to  persuade  Qadhafi  to  reduce  his  support  for 
Chadian  insurgents.  Tombalbaye  voiced  a  willingness  to  cede  the 
Aozou  Strip  and  did  not  object  to  Libyan  troops'  being  stationed 
there  after  1973.  Chad  erupted  in  renewed  protests  against  Tom- 
balbaye's  unpopular  and  weakened  regime,  culminating  in  a  suc- 
cessful coup  against  him  in  1975. 

General  Felix  Malloum,  a  former  government  critic  imprisoned 
by  Tombalbaye,  proclaimed  himself  head  of  the  Supreme  Mili- 
tary Council  (Conseil  Superieur  Militaire — CSM),  which  seized 
power  in  1975.  As  a  southerner  with  strong  kinship  ties  to  the  north, 
Malloum  believed  that  he  could  reconcile  Chad's  divided  regions 
and  establish  representative  institutions.  He  set  a  high  priority  on 
freeing  Chad  from  French  economic  and  political  control,  but  in 
this  effort  he  was  unsuccessful.  He  sent  French  combat  forces  home, 
but  he  retained  several  hundred  French  advisers  and  renegotiated 
a  series  of  military  accords  to  ensure  emergency  aid. 

Malloum  was  unable  to  convert  dissatisfaction  with  Tombal- 
baye's  regime  into  acceptance  of  his  own.  His  opponents  exploited 
popular  displeasure  with  the  remaining  French  presence  by  recruit- 
ing new  dissidents.  In  response  to  this  threat,  Malloum  seized  con- 
trol of  all  branches  of  government  and,  in  the  increasingly  repressive 
manner  that  characterized  his  presidency,  banned  almost  all  political 
activity.  His  opposition  coalesced  around  FROLINAT,  which 
established  alternative  administrations  in  outlying  areas  to  com- 
pete with  N'Djamena.  In  1978,  in  the  face  of  mounting  violence, 
Malloum  reluctandy  called  for  the  return  of  French  forces  (see  Civil 
Conflict  and  Libyan  Intervention,  ch.  5). 

Transition  to  Northern  Rule 

In  1978  officials  in  Chad  and  neighboring  countries  attempted 
to  craft  a  coalition  that  could  control  the  country  through  military 
force  and  still  claim  to  have  some  popular  support.  Urged  by  Afri- 
can heads  of  state  and  French  advisers,  Malloum  attempted  to  bring 
FROLINAT  faction  leaders  Hissein  Habre  and  Goukouni  Oueddei 
into  the  government,  but  these  two  northerners  soon  clashed  with 


142 


Troops  being  reviewed  in  1970  at  Fada 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

Malloum  and  each  other.  While  Habre's  troops  engaged  govern- 
ment forces,  Goukouni  seized  the  opportunity  to  occupy  govern- 
ment buildings  and  claim  control  of  N'Djamena.  Talks  were  held 
first  in  Sudan  and  then  in  Nigeria,  but  by  late  1979  neighboring 
states  were  working  primarily  to  contain  Chad's  spreading  violence 
and  limit  Libyan  interference  in  regional  affairs  (see  Relations  with 
Other  African  States,  this  ch.). 

As  N'Djamena  became  a  war  zone,  with  fighting  among 
FROLINAT  factions  and  southerners  going  on  between  1979  and 
early  1982,  outsiders  proclaimed  the  disintegration  of  the  state. 
Although  major  disruptions  occurred,  the  government  struggled 
to  maintain  basic  official  functions.  Executive  functions  were  allo- 
cated according  to  ministerial  portfolios  and  were  given  limited 
attention.  Many  buildings  in  the  capital  city  were  destroyed,  but 
a  small  civil  service  continued  to  operate.  Public  services  were  erratic 
but  not  absent.  Still,  the  government  fought  for  its  survival  rather 
than  to  protect  its  citizens,  and  thousands  of  people  sought  refuge 
in  rural  areas  or  neighboring  countries. 

Talks  in  Lagos  and  Kano  in  1979  culminated  in  the  formation 
of  GUNT,  led  by  Goukouni,  which  incorporated  several  rival  north- 
ern commanders.  Malloum  left  the  country,  and  the  locus  of  govern- 
mental power  shifted  from  south  to  north,  largely  because  of 
northern  military  successes,  popular  discontent  throughout  the 


143 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


country,  and  pressure  from  neighboring  states  for  an  end  to  Chadian 
violence.  National  unity  became  increasingly  ephemeral,  however, 
as  members  of  this  coalition  were  polarized  between  Habre  and 
Goukouni.  Goukouni  was  the  son  of  the  derde,  a  respected  tradi- 
tional leader  among  the  Teda  population  of  the  north,  one  of  the 
Toubou  groups  that  had  generally  been  receptive  to  the  Libyan- 
based  Sanusiyya  brotherhood  before  independence  (see  Languages 
and  Ethnic  Groups;  Islam,  ch.  2).  In  his  view,  Libyan  interests 
in  Chad  were  valid.  Goukouni  requested  Qadhafi's  assistance 
against  Habre  in  1980,  bringing  Libyan  troops  into  the  country 
as  far  south  as  N'Djamena. 

As  head  of  state,  Goukouni  did  not  implement  promised  demo- 
cratic reforms,  but  neither  did  he  tolerate  unlimited  reprisals  against 
the  south.  Instead,  he  was  relatively  tolerant  of  minor  expressions 
of  dissent,  warned  security  forces  against  harsh  retaliation  in  the 
south,  and  gave  local  administrators  limited  autonomy. 

Both  allies  and  opponents  perceived  this  relatively  conciliatory 
attitude  as  a  presidential  weakness  and  a  hesitant  style  of  leader- 
ship. Indeed,  this  hesitancy  was  apparent  in  1981  when  Qadhafi 
proclaimed  a  merger  between  Libya  and  Chad.  Following  inter- 
national and  domestic  protests,  Goukouni  reversed  his  position  and 
balked  at  Qadhafi's  regional  demands. 

French  political  shifts  in  1981  also  had  an  important  impact  on 
events  in  Chad.  The  election  of  Francois  Mitterrand  as  French 
president  heralded  a  reorientation  in  African  policy.  Socialist  leaders 
vowed  to  reduce  the  overall  French  presence  in  Africa  and  to  avoid 
an  open  confrontation  with  Libya,  a  major  source  of  French  oil 
imports.  French  support  shifted  cautiously  to  Habre,  who  appeared 
willing  to  resist  Libyan  domination  with  outside  support  and  whose 
decisive  leadership  had  been  demonstrated  against  French  troops 
for  over  a  decade.  France's  Socialist  Party  pursued  its  goal  of  reduc- 
ing its  interventionist  profile  in  Africa  by  persuading  francophone 
states,  through  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU),  to  send 
peacekeeping  troops  to  Chad.  Goukouni  called  for  the  removal  of 
Libya5 s  forces,  but  when  Habre' s  Armed  Forces  of  the  North 
(Forces  Armees  du  Nord — FAN)  moved  on  the  capital,  they 
encountered  almost  no  resistance  from  the  OAU-sponsored  Inter- 
African  Force  (IAF).  As  a  result,  in  June  1982  FAN  seized 
N'Djamena  and  proclaimed  Habre  head  of  state. 

Habre 's  decisiveness  and  his  preference  for  French  rather  than 
Libyan  patronage  shifted  the  focus  of  government  once  again.  He 
took  limited  steps  to  assuage  regional  dissent,  relying  on  north- 
erners in  most  military  commands  and  top  political  offices  but 
appointing  southerners  to  several  executive  and  administrative 


144 


Government  and  Politics 


positions.  Habre  also  reduced  the  aim  of  independence  from  French 
domination  to  the  status  of  a  long-term  goal.  France  maintained 
vital  economic,  financial,  military,  and  security  assistance;  under- 
wrote the  budget;  effectively  operated  the  banking  system;  and 
provided  a  variety  of  commercial  and  technical  advisers.  Further- 
more, Habre  used  French  and  United  States  military  assistance 
to  repel  Libyan  troops,  Libyan-supported  insurgents,  and  local  rebel 
forces  (see  Habre 's  Return  to  Power  and  Second  Libyan  Interven- 
tion, 1982-84,  ch.  5).  French  funds  also  helped  Habre  co-opt  former 
opponents. 

As  president,  Habre  brought  more  peace  to  Chad  than  that  coun- 
try had  known  in  a  decade.  Habre  vowed  to  remove  Libyan  forces 
from  the  north,  reconcile  north  and  south,  and  establish  a  demo- 
cratic state.  In  his  first  six  years  in  office,  he  took  steps  to  accom- 
plish some  of  these  goals. 

Structure  of  Government 
Constitutional  System 

Between  1959  and  1988,  Chad's  constitution  was  revised  six  times 
and  altered  by  several  major  amendments.  The  preindependence 
constitution  adopted  by  the  Territorial  Assembly  in  March  1959 
was  modified  at  independence  in  1960.  The  new  document  estab- 
lished a  parliamentary  system  of  government  with  an  executive 
prime  minister.  Further  revisions  in  1962  strengthened  the  execu- 
tive, and  the  1965  constitution  eliminated  all  rivals  to  the  ruling 
party,  the  PPT.  In  1973  President  Tombalbaye  codified  in  the  con- 
stitution his  version  of  the  authenticite  movement  to  reaffirm  indige- 
nous values.  This  movement  required  civil  servants  to  undergo 
initiation  rites  common  to  some  ethnic  constituencies  of  the  south. 
Following  a  military  coup  in  1975,  in  which  Tombalbaye  was  killed, 
and  the  general  deterioration  of  state  institutions,  lengthy  negotia- 
tions in  1978  led  to  a  new  constitution  that  established  an  unsuc- 
cessful coalition  among  Chad's  warring  factions. 

In  June  1982,  when  Habre  seized  control  of  N'Djamena,  he  dis- 
solved the  existing  government  and  in  October  promulgated  the 
Fundamental  Law,  a  document  that  served  as  an  interim  consti- 
tution through  1988.  In  July  1988,  Habre  appointed  a  constitu- 
tional committee  to  draft  a  new  document  to  be  presented  to  the 
government  in  1989. 

The  Fundamental  Law  of  1982  declared  Chad  a  secular,  indivisible 
republic,  with  ultimate  power  deriving  from  the  people.  Both  French 
and  Arabic  were  adopted  as  official  languages,  and  "Unity- Work- 
Progress"  was  adopted  as  the  nation's  motto.  The  constitution 


145 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


authorized  the  office  of  president,  Council  of  Ministers  (cabinet), 
National  Advisory  Council  (Conseil  National  Consultatif — CNC, 
an  interim  legislature),  and  national  army.  It  placed  overriding 
authority  for  controlling  all  of  these  in  the  office  of  the  president. 

President 

Article  2  of  the  Fundamental  Law  designated  the  president  as 
head  of  state  and  government.  He  was  chairman  of  the  Council 
of  Ministers,  with  a  mandate  to  define  the  fundamental  policy 
choices  of  the  nation.  The  president  was  the  commander  in  chief 
of  the  armed  forces  and  head  of  an  ostensibly  civilian  government. 
The  Fundamental  Law  allowed  the  Command  Council  of  the 
Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Conseil  de  Commandement  des  Forces 
Armees  du  Nord — CCFAN)  to  select  the  president.  Habre  dissolved 
the  CCFAN  when  he  established  the  ruling  party,  UNIR,  in  1984. 
No  succession  procedures  were  in  place  after  1984,  and  most 
observers  expected  Habre  to  remain  in  office  after  the  new  consti- 
tution was  presented  to  the  government  in  1989. 

The  Fundamental  Law  authorized  the  president  to  legislate  by 
decree,  and  he  often  did  so.  He  also  appointed  and  dismissed 
ministers,  legislators,  and  high-level  civil  and  military  officials.  Only 
the  president  could  initiate  constitutional  amendments;  this  proce- 
dure required,  however,  consultation  with  both  ministers  and  legis- 
lators. 

The  president's  international  authority  included  negotiating  and 
ratifying  treaties  and  accords  and  guaranteeing  Chad's  observance 
of  them.  He  was  technically  required  to  consult  with  ministers  and 
legislators,  but  more  often  he  simply  notified  them  of  his  foreign 
policy  decisions. 

Council  of  Ministers 

The  president  and  twenty-three  appointed  ministers  formed  the 
Council  of  Ministers  in  1988.  The  council's  portfolios  included 
agriculture  and  rural  development;  civil  service;  commerce  and 
industry;  culture,  youth,  and  sports;  national  defense,  veterans,  and 
war  victims;  education;  finance;  food  security  and  afflicted  groups; 
foreign  affairs;  information  and  civic  orientation;  interior;  justice; 
labor;  livestock  and  rural  water;  mines  and  energy;  planning  and 
reconstruction;  posts  and  telecommunications;  public  health;  public 
works,  housing,  and  urban  development;  social  affairs  and  the  pro- 
motion of  women;  state;  tourism  and  the  environment;  and  trans- 
portation and  civil  aviation.  The  president  held  the  portfolio  for 
defense.  Only  one  woman  served  on  the  Council  of  Ministers. 
Executive  appointments  were  divided  among  most  regions  of  the 


146 


A  woman  sells  bottles  of  gasoline  on  a  war-damaged  street 

in  the  capital 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (John  Isaac) 

country,  although  northerners  dominated  most  organs  of  govern- 
ment. 

The  general  responsibility  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  was  to  carry 
out  the  wishes  of  the  president,  although  constitutional  language 
defined  its  task  as  overseeing  national  reconstruction,  establishing 
a  democratic  way  of  life,  guaranteeing  fundamental  rights  of  indi- 
viduals and  associations,  and  guaranteeing  the  effective  participa- 
tion of  all  social  classes  in  the  managing  of  public  affairs.  The  council 
was  also  responsible  for  maintaining  a  national  army,  reorganizing 
the  national  police,  reorganizing  public  enterprises  and  parastatals, 
developing  an  effective  health  care  system,  assisting  victims  of  war, 
relaunching  the  economy,  reforming  the  school  system,  devising 
an  investment  code  to  encourage  domestic  and  foreign  capital  for- 
mation, reconstructing  the  communication  system,  and  regaining 
Chad's  self-sufficiency  in  food. 

Article  18  summarized  ministerial  responsibilities  in  foreign 
policy.  These  responsibilities  were  to  maintain  friendship  and 
cooperation  with  all  peaceful  countries,  to  uphold  the  principles 
of  the  United  Nations  (UN)  and  OAU,  to  support  legitimate  strug- 
gles by  people  under  racial  and  colonial  domination,  to  combat 
all  forms  of  expansionism,  and  to  practice  nonalignment  in  foreign 
policy-making.  Article  19  restricted  ministers  from  holding  a  second 


147 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


office  in  government,  although  many  government  officials  in  1988 
also  held  office  in  UNIR. 

National  Advisory  Council 

The  Fundamental  Law  formalized  the  institution  of  a  weak  legis- 
lative branch  of  government.  Thirty  advisers,  who  served  at  the 
discretion  of  the  president,  made  up  the  CNC  in  1988.  Although 
they  were  authorized  to  elect  their  own  council  president  and  two 
vice  presidents,  their  mandate  was  only  to  advise  the  president 
regarding  states  of  emergency  and  war  and  to  consult  with  him 
regarding  fundamental  policy  choices,  international  agreements, 
budgetary  allocations,  and  general  plans  for  political,  social,  and 
economic  development.  In  practice,  the  CNC  supported  presidential 
policy. 

As  of  1988,  the  people  of  Chad  had  no  elected  representatives 
at  the  national  level.  The  appointed  CNC  provided  a  formal  struc- 
ture for  representative  government  and  policy  deliberation,  but  it 
was  entirely  subordinate  to  the  executive  branch.  Legislators  effected 
policy  changes  only  if  the  president  agreed  with  them. 

Regional  Government 

Throughout  the  1980s,  Chad  was  divided  into  fourteen  prefec- 
tures (see  fig.  1).  Each  was  further  subdivided  into  subprefectures, 
administrative  posts,  and  cantons.  Most  prefectures  were  divided 
into  two  to  five  subprefectures;  the  total  number  of  subprefectures 
was  fifty-four.  Administrative  posts  and  cantons  were  often  orga- 
nized around  traditional  social  units,  especially  in  areas  where  an 
existing  bureaucratic  structure  could  represent  the  state.  In  general, 
the  national  government  relied  on  traditional  leaders  to  represent 
its  authority  in  rural  areas.  In  many  of  these  areas,  civil  servants 
could  not  maintain  order,  collect  taxes,  or  enforce  government  edicts 
without  the  cooperation  of  respected  local  leaders. 

Administrators  at  each  of  these  levels  (prefects,  subprefects, 
administrators,  and  canton  chiefs)  were  appointed  by  the  presi- 
dent or  the  minister  of  interior  and  remained  in  office  until  the 
president  dismissed  them.  Each  prefect  was  assisted  by  a  consul- 
tative council  composed  of  ten  or  more  members  nominated  by 
the  prefect  and  approved  by  the  minister  of  interior.  Traditional 
leaders  were  often  included,  and  council  protocol  was  sometimes 
based  on  local  rank  and  status  distinctions. 

During  the  1960s,  the  government  granted  municipal  status  to 
nine  towns,  based  on  their  ability  to  finance  their  own  budgets. 
These  municipalities  generated  most  of  their  revenues  through 
administrative  fees,  fines,  and  taxes,  and  they  organized  communal 


148 


t  t 


'     '     '     t  , 


The  residence  of  a  subprefect,  often  the  only  symbol  of  government 

in  rural  areas 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 


work  projects  for  many  city  improvements.  Their  governing  bod- 
ies were  relatively  autonomous  municipal  councils,  chosen  by  popu- 
lar consensus  or  informal  elections.  Each  council,  in  turn,  elected 
a  mayor  from  its  own  ranks.  The  official  policy  of  autonomy  for 
municipal  councils  was  generally  overridden  by  the  requirement 
that  almost  all  council  decisions  be  ratified  by  the  prefect  or  the 
minister  of  interior. 

Judicial  System 

Chad's  legal  system  was  based  on  French  civil  law,  modified 
according  to  a  variety  of  traditional  and  Islamic  legal  interpreta- 
tions. In  the  late  1980s,  the  civilian  and  military  court  systems  over- 
lapped at  several  levels,  an  effect  of  Chad's  years  of  warfare  (see 
The  Criminal  Justice  System,  ch.  5).  Civilian  justice  often  deferred 
to  the  military  system,  and  in  some  areas,  military  courts — many 
of  which  were  established  by  rebel  armies  during  the  late  1970s — 
were  the  only  operating  courts.  In  the  1980s,  the  government  was 
working  to  reassert  civilian  jurisdiction  over  these  areas. 

Chad's  Supreme  Court  was  abolished  following  the  coup  in  1975 
and  had  not  been  reestablished  by  1988.  The  highest  court  in  the 
land  was  the  Court  of  State  Security,  comprising  eight  justices, 
including  both  civilians  and  military  officers,  all  appointed  by  the 


149 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

president.  In  addition,  a  court  of  appeals  in  N'Djamena  reviewed 
decisions  of  lower  courts,  and  a  special  court  of  justice  established 
in  1984  heard  cases  involving  the  misappropriation  of  public  funds. 

Criminal  courts  convened  in  N'Djamena,  Sarh,  Moundou,  and 
Abeche,  and  criminal  judges  traveled  to  other  towns  when  neces- 
sary. In  addition,  each  of  the  fourteen  prefectures  had  a  magis- 
trate's court,  in  which  civil  cases  and  minor  criminal  cases  were 
tried.  In  1988  forty-three  justices  of  the  peace  served  as  courts  of 
first  resort  in  some  areas. 

Chad  also  had  an  unofficial  but  widely  accepted  system  of  Islamic 
sharia  courts  in  the  north  and  east,  which  had  operated  for  a  cen- 
tury or  more.  Most  cases  involved  family  obligations  and  religious 
teachings.  In  other  areas,  traditional  custom  required  family  elders 
to  mediate  disputes  involving  members  of  their  descent  group,  i.e., 
men  and  women  related  to  them  through  sons  and  brothers.  Civil 
courts  often  considered  traditional  law  and  community  sentiment 
in  decisions,  and  the  courts  sometimes  sought  the  advice  of  local 
leaders  in  considering  evidence  and  rendering  verdicts. 

Political  Dynamics 
Factionalism 

Chad's  political  environment  in  the  1980s  was  a  fluid,  chang- 
ing network,  bearing  the  imprint  of  centuries  of  factional  dynamics. 
Traditional  authority  has  generally  been  diffuse,  rather  than  con- 
centrated in  a  single  individual  for  an  entire  society.  Clusters  of 
descent  groups  defined  the  society  in  many  areas.  Factions  arose 
when  descent  groups  clashed,  and  strong  leaders  sought  kin-group 
support  in  confronting  one  another.  Social  norms  focused  on  pre- 
venting conflict  through  family  law,  religion,  and  authority  rela- 
tions, and  a  key  feature  of  factional  strife  was  the  reunion  that 
eventually  followed  many  violent  clashes. 

As  a  result  of  these  traditional  beliefs  and  practices,  many  Chad- 
ians  viewed  politics  according  to  a  segmentary  model  of  descent 
group  fragmentation.  They  scorned  the  idea  that  national  leaders, 
in  fixed  terms  of  office,  could  demand  loyalties,  regardless  of  the 
issues  involved.  From  their  perspective,  centralizing  power  and 
authority  served  to  deny,  rather  than  to  implement,  democratic 
principles.  In  Chad,  as  in  other  faction-ridden  political  systems, 
opposition  and  alliance  were  constantly  recalculated,  as  costs  and 
benefits  to  the  individual  or  kin- group  were  weighed.  Politics  were 
often  blurred  and  not  defined  in  terms  of  distinct  bipolar  rivalries. 

Factional  fragmentation  in  Chad  occurred  in  response  to  predic- 
table issues,  such  as  France's  postcolonial  role,  relations  with  Libya, 


150 


Government  and  Politics 


the  value  of  negotiation  versus  armed  confrontation,  and  ethnic 
and  regional  balances  of  power.  Rifts  also  resulted  from  basic  dis- 
agreements over  policy  decisions,  forms  of  retaliation  against  rivals, 
and  personality  clashes.  Reconciliation  often  brought  former  rivals 
together  in  the  face  of  a  more  threatening  opponent. 

Factions  assumed  particular  importance  after  independence 
because  of  Chad's  diverse  ethnic  groups,  the  traditional  scorn  for 
centralized  authority,  the  weak  impact  of  central  government  poli- 
cies in  the  north,  and  the  generally  inadequate  infrastructure  that 
impeded  communication  among  regions.  Most  important,  north- 
ern resentment  found  its  expression  in  numerous  strong  leaders — in 
effect,  warlords — but  instead  of  organizing  under  a  strong  warlord 
to  secede,  factional  armies  in  the  north  sought  to  wrest  control  from 
the  government  and  from  each  other. 

Hissein  Habre  is  an  example  of  a  leader  whose  career  has  demon- 
strated skill  as  a  factional  strategist.  He  entered  politics  after  return- 
ing from  graduate  study  in  France  in  1971,  but  he  abandoned  his 
original  post  in  the  Tombalbaye  government  to  join  the  opposi- 
tion FROLINAT.  In  this  organization,  he  had  personality  clashes 
with  a  number  of  leaders,  including  FROLINAT 's  ideologue,  Abba 
Siddick.  In  1972  Habre  formed  an  army  of  his  own,  allied  with 
fellow  northerner  Goukouni  Oueddei,  in  opposition  to  Siddick. 
Habre  and  Goukouni  managed  a  fragile  alliance  for  more  than  three 
years,  despite  differences  in  style  and  ability.  Habre  negotiated  a 
large  ransom  payment  from  Paris  for  French  hostages  he  and 
Goukouni  kidnapped  in  1974,  but  by  the  time  the  hostages  were 
released  in  1977,  Habre  and  Goukouni  had  ended  their  alliance. 

This  arrangement  did  not  last  because  Habre  clashed  with  Mal- 
loum  over  regional  and  policy  issues.  Their  confrontation  allowed 
Goukouni  to  seize  the  capital  and  declare  himself  head  of  state. 
As  minister  of  national  defense,  veterans,  and  war  victims  in 
Goukouni's  regime,  Habre  continued  to  clash  with  his  northern 
rival  over  policy,  style,  and,  increasingly,  over  Libyan  involvement 
in  Chad.  Habre  fled  N'Djamena  and,  with  French  and  United 
States  support,  returned  to  oust  Goukouni  as  head  of  state  in 
June  1982. 

Habre  decided  he  would  form  alliances  only  from  a  position  of 
strength,  and  he  proceeded  to  defeat,  intimidate,  or  co-opt  a  number 
of  rebel  leaders.  He  then  moved  to  end  factional  strife,  curb  the 
nation's  continuing  violence,  and  extend  the  reach  of  government 
into  the  countryside.  As  of  1988,  he  had  been  fairly  successful  in 
his  dual  pursuit  of  national  reunification  and  reconciliation.  He 
had  consolidated  his  control  of  Chad's  fractious  population  through 
both  military  and  political  tactics,  and,  following  the  example  of 


151 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


his  predecessors,  he  had  strengthened  the  executive  branch  of 
government  and  postponed  democratic  reforms.  Habre's  authori- 
tarian rule  outweighed  the  nation's  strong  centrifugal  tendencies, 
but  just  barely.  He  defeated  numerous  rebel  armies  between  1983 
and  1987,  and  as  a  result  of  these  clashes,  the  disarray  among  his 
opponents,  and  French  financial  assistance,  he  won  over  most 
former  opponents. 

Among  those  groups  that  rallied  to  Habre's  government  was  the 
Action  Committee  of  the  Democratic  Revolutionary  Council 
(Comite  d'Action  et  de  Concertation  du  Conseil  Democratique 
Revolutionnaire — CAC-CDR),  founded  in  1984  as  the  intellectual 
wing  of  the  opposition  CDR.  Under  the  leadership  of  Mahamat 
Senoussi  Khatir,  it  declared  support  for  Habre  in  1985.  The  Peo- 
ple's Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Populaires — FAP),  a  former 
FROLINAT  faction  led  by  Goukouni,  also  declared  support  for 
Habre  in  October  1986,  although  Goukouni  remained  outside  the 
country,  attempting  to  negotiate  a  dignified  return.  Goukouni 's 
one-time  vice  president  and  leader  of  the  Chadian  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes — FAT),  Wadel  Abdelkader  Kamou- 
gue,  was  Habre's  minister  of  agriculture  and  rural  development 
in  1988.  The  Democratic  Front  of  Chad  (Front  Democratique  du 
Tchad — FDT)  was  also  won  over  by  Habre.  The  FDT  was  a  coali- 
tion of  groups  formed  in  Paris  in  1985  in  opposition  to  both 
Goukouni  and  Habre.  Led  by  General  Negue  Djogo,  the  FDT 
shifted  its  support  to  Habre  later  that  year.  Djogo  became  Habre's 
minister  of  justice  in  early  1986  and  was  shifted  to  minister  of  trans- 
portation and  civil  aviation  in  mid- 1988.  Two  other  former  FDT 
leaders  also  joined  the  government,  one  as  minister  of  finance  and 
the  other  as  minister  of  culture,  youth,  and  sports. 

Several  factions  of  codos,  or  commandos,  were  also  convinced 
to  rally  to  the  government.  Codos  were  southern  rebel  formations 
nominally  united  under  the  leadership  of  Colonel  Alphonse  Kotiga. 
Many  of  them  declared  their  support  for  Habre  during  1985  and 
1986.  Other  small  groups  also  rallied  to  Habre's  government  in 
1986  and  1987,  including  the  Democratic  and  Popular  National 
Assembly  (Rassemblement  National  Democratique  et  Populaire — 
RNDP)  and  the  Assembly  for  Unity  and  Chadian  Democracy  (Ras- 
semblement pour  1' Unite  et  la  Democratic  Tchadienne — RUDT). 

A  number  of  groups  remained  actively  opposed  to  the  govern- 
ment in  1988.  Several  of  these  formed  a  coalition,  the  Supreme 
Council  of  the  Revolution  (Conseil  Supreme  de  la  Revolution — 
CSR)  in  1985.  The  CSR  included  nominally  united  remnants 
of  GUNT,  which  had  controlled  the  national  government  under 
Goukouni's  leadership  from  1979  to  1982  (see  Civil  War  and 


152 


A  building  showing  the  destructiveness  of  the  Chadian  Civil  War 

Courtesy  United  Nations  (John  Isaac) 

Multilateral  Mediation,  1979-82,  ch.  1).  Goukouni  disappeared 
from  the  GUNT  command  while  he  negotiated  unsuccessfully  to 
return  to  Chad  on  his  own  terms  in  1987.  In  1988  he  proclaimed 
his  allegiance  to  Habre  but  soon  thereafter  announced  the  reor- 
ganization of  the  GUNT  alliance  under  his  command. 

Another  group  in  the  CSR,  the  CDR,  was  founded  in  1979  by 
Acyl  Ahmat  but  in  1988  led  by  Acheikh  ibn  Oumar.  The  CDR 
formed  the  core  of  Habre 's  opposition  in  1988,  following  military 
and  political  losses  by  GUNT.  Also  opposed  to  the  government 
in  1988  were  the  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Chad 
(Mouvement  Populaire  pour  la  Liberation  du  Tchad — MPLT), 
which  had  broken  away  from  FAP  under  Aboubakar  Abdel 
Rahmane's  leadership,  and  its  splinter  group,  the  Western  Armed 
Forces  (Forces  Armees  Occidentales — FAO);  several  factions  of 
FROLINAT,  including  those  led  by  Hadjero  Senoussi  and 
Abdelkader  Yacine;  and  the  Movement  for  the  National  Salva- 
tion of  Chad  (Mouvement  pour  le  Salut  National  du  Tchad — 
MOSANAT),  led  by  Boda  Maldoun.  MOSANAT,  a  Hajerai- 
based  organization,  maintained  its  antigovernment  stance  through 
several  administrations.  No  remaining  rebel  army,  by  itself,  posed 
an  immediate  threat  to  Habre 's  regime  (see  Internal  Security  Con- 
ditions, ch.  5). 


153 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

National  Union  for  Independence  and  Revolution 

Habre 's  political  support  came  primarily  from  northerners,  the 
army  that  brought  him  to  power,  and  civilians  who  admired  his 
tough  stand  on  such  issues  as  opposition  to  Libyan  interference 
in  Chadian  affairs.  To  broaden  his  support,  in  1984  he  undertook 
a  program  to  extend  the  reach  of  government  into  rural  areas,  first 
by  seeking  the  advice  of  the  nation's  prefects.  Southern  prefects 
advised  that  in  addition  to  lingering  animosity  based  on  the  early 
association  of  FAN  with  FROLINAT,  which  had  worked  to  oust 
the  southern-based  government  of  Tombalbaye,  a  major  concern 
in  that  region  was  the  conduct  of  the  army.  The  army  had  become, 
in  effect,  an  obstacle  to  security. 

In  1984  Habre  dissolved  the  CCFAN  and  established  a  political 
party,  UNIR.  Habre  retained  broad  power  to  control  the  party 
agenda,  and  he  appointed  military  officers  to  nine  of  the  fourteen 
positions  on  the  party's  Executive  Bureau,  which  served  as  the 
primary  liaison  between  the  party  and  the  government.  To  placate 
the  south,  six  posts  were  allocated  to  southerners. 

UNIR  was  designed  primarily  to  mobilize  and  inspire  popular 
participation  in  government  and  to  enable  the  president  to  control 
that  participation.  Other  important  goals  were  to  increase  the 
civilian  emphasis  in  government  and,  finally,  to  achieve  peace 
between  north  and  south.  The  party  invoked  national  values 
such  as  brotherhood  and  solidarity,  individual  respect,  confi- 
dence, and  "healthy  criticism  and  self-criticism."  It  also  developed 
a  repertoire  of  songs,  chants,  and  sayings  intended  to  bolster  these 
aims. 

The  eighty-member  UNIR  Central  Committee  was  important 
in  extending  the  reach  of  the  party  throughout  the  nation.  For  this 
purpose,  it  employed  groups  of  about  sixty  agents  (animateurs)  and 
ten  organizers  (encadreurs)  in  each  prefecture  to  convert  apathetic 
and  war- weary  citizens  into  party  activists.  Militant  UNIR 
recruiters  delivered  public  speeches  on  the  need  for  unity,  peace, 
and  progress  through  the  party  organization  and  for  reduced  Libyan 
influence  in  Chad.  They  also  helped  recruit  members  to  party 
affiliates,  such  as  youth  groups,  women's  organizations,  and  trade 
associations. 

The  main  political  impact  of  UNIR  by  1988  was  to  maintain 
a  cadre  of  elites  on  the  periphery  of  the  government.  The  party 
was  successful  at  orchestrating  political  displays  but  had  not  inspired 
widespread  loyalty.  People  generally  remained  skeptical  of  the 
ability  of  government  to  improve  their  lives.  Rural  citizens  in  par- 
ticular had  seen  few  benefits  of  national  development  and  feared 


154 


Government  and  Politics 


that  the  government's  inevitable  urban  bias  would  make  life  even 
harsher  for  them. 

The  party's  effectiveness  as  a  democratic  forum  was  hampered 
by  the  fact  that  the  president  controlled  its  agenda.  UNIR  provided 
very  limited  opportunities  for  debating  government  policy  and  had 
little  patronage  to  dispense,  except  its  own  offices.  It  served  primar- 
ily to  convey  to  the  president  a  sense  of  popular  opinion  and  to 
reassure  him  that  his  government  was  not  entirely  out  of  touch  with 
its  constituency.  In  this  role,  UNIR  usurped  much  of  the  limited 
power  of  the  interim  legislature,  the  CNC,  and  left  the  appointed 
legislators  to  act  primarily  as  bureaucratic  housekeepers.  Habre 
reportedly  intended  to  allow  for  greater  democratic  participation 
at  some  time  in  the  future,  but  before  doing  so,  he  hoped  to  pro- 
vide sufficient  political  indoctrination  to  guarantee  support  for  party 
aims. 

In  1988  Habre  proclaimed  his  intention  to  convert  UNIR  into 
a  people's  party,  a  "revolutionary  vanguard,"  for  the  purpose  of 
grass-roots  political  mobilization.  To  begin  this  task,  he  created 
the  People's  Revolutionary  Militia  (Milice  Populaire  de  la  Revolu- 
tion— MPR),  but  the  MPR  was  not  yet  operational  in  mid- 1988. 
As  head  of  the  UNIR  Executive  Bureau,  the  president  was  to 
appoint  the  leader  of  the  MPR  and  control  its  agenda. 

The  MPR  mandate  was  to  reach  people  through  the  local  party 
organization  in  each  of  the  nation's  administrative  divisions.  This 
structure — subdivided  into  groups,  subgroups,  sectors,  and  sub- 
sectors  corresponding  to  the  nation's  prefectures,  subprefectures, 
administrative  posts,  and  cantons — was  intended  to  provide  UNIR 
with  an  apparatus  for  enforcing  its  decisions  and  a  forum  for 
promoting  its  programs.  It  would  also  augment  the  government's 
internal  security  apparatus. 

Political  Style 

During  his  first  six  years  as  president,  Habre 's  style  of  govern- 
ing was  essentially  to  juxtapose  spheres  of  influence,  including  the 
Council  of  Ministers,  a  few  close  advisers,  and  personal  friends 
and  relatives,  all  of  whom  sought  to  influence  presidential  deci- 
sion making.  Habre  was  at  the  center  of  these  spheres,  each  of  which 
coalesced  around  his  agenda.  His  political  strategy  was  based  on 
a  segmentary  model  that  exploited  Chad's  traditionally  fluid,  fac- 
tional political  dynamics. 

Habre  understood  factional  dynamics  on  several  levels,  first  as 
one  of  the  Toubou  herdsmen  among  whom  he  was  born  and  whose 
livelihood  had  for  centuries  depended  on  manipulation  of  the  social 
system  to  their  advantage,  and  as  a  Western-educated  member  of 


155 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


a  small  elite,  whose  political  longevity  depended  on  his  ability  to 
broker  alliances.  Habre  used  this  traditional  and  modern  back- 
ground in  his  efforts  to  craft  a  stable  nation  out  of  a  divided  state 
torn  by  factional  strife. 

That  people  were  tired  of  war  also  contributed  to  Habre 's  politi- 
cal successes  in  his  first  six  years  as  president.  A  combination  of 
resignation  and  opportunism  brought  former  opponents  into  alli- 
ance with  the  president,  who  often  was  simply  more  tenacious  than 
they  were.  To  most  of  these  former  opponents,  Habre 's  authoritar- 
ian regime  was  preferable  to  a  return  to  civil  war.  Factional  dis- 
putes were  not  always  resolved;  sometimes  they  were  submerged 
and  could  be  expected  to  recur. 

Habre 's  military  style  was  characterized  as  smart,  tough,  and 
decisive.  Observers  described  him  as  a  pragmatic  military  leader, 
undeterred  by  bureaucratic  and  political  niceties  and  undistracted 
by  sentiment,  ideology,  or  foreign  entanglements.  Although  he  had 
a  sizable  following  among  civilians,  as  of  1988  he  still  governed 
largely  as  a  military  officer.  He  had  not  made  the  shift  in  style  from 
supervising  a  military  bureaucracy,  in  which  orders  were  given  and 
obeyed,  to  overseeing  a  civilian  government  that  required  broad 
consensus  formation.  Political  communication  was  generally  one 
directional,  from  the  president  down. 

Habre  established  a  reputation  for  ignoring  seniority  in  making 
assignments,  and,  as  a  result,  officers  sometimes  reported  to  their 
juniors  when  working  on  specific  projects.  One  military  com- 
mander, Hassane  Djamouss,  whose  1987  successes  led  to  the  rout 
of  Libyan  forces  from  much  of  the  north,  became  a  well-known 
example  of  this  feature  of  Habre 's  style  (see  Repelling  Libya's 
Occupying  Force,  1985-87,  ch.  5).  Djamouss  was  a  former  minister 
of  the  civil  service,  trained  as  a  livestock  technician,  but  correctly 
judged  by  Habre  to  be  a  master  strategist. 

Habre  also  developed  the  reputation  as  a  manager  who  set  overall 
goals  for  his  subordinates  and  left  the  mechanics  of  accomplishing 
those  goals  to  lower-level  managers.  This  decentralized  responsi- 
bility and  decision-making  authority  accorded  well  with  traditional 
values  of  individualism  held  by  many  Chadian  ethnic  groups,  and 
it  had  worked  well  in  many  military  settings.  A  by-product  of  this 
feature  of  Habre 's  style  was  that  officials  with  delegated  responsi- 
bility commonly  bypassed  bureaucratic  regulations  in  order  to 
accomplish  their  goal.  Adhering  to  the  chain  of  command  was  not 
the  measure  of  success  in  Chad's  government  of  the  1980s. 

Habre  made  several  cautious  attempts  to  bring  peripheral  eth- 
nic groups  into  the  political  process.  Most  high  civilian  and  mili- 
tary appointments  were  from  his  own  or  a  closely  related  ethnic 


156 


President  Hissein  Habre  (in  white)  at  a  1985  meeting  of  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme 
Courtesy  United  Nations 

group,  but  he  appointed  southerners  and  other  non-Toubou 
civilians  to  several  executive  and  administrative  positions,  despite 
occasional  bureaucratic  snarls  that  resulted  from  these  attempts  at 
national  reconciliation. 

Faced  with  internal  threats  to  his  regime,  Habre 's  reaction  was 
essentially  repressive.  Political  opponents  were  often  imprisoned 
or  had  their  travel  restricted.  He  broadened  intelligence- gathering 
networks  within  the  military  (in  1986,  for  example,  in  response 
to  growing  opposition  within  the  army)  and  expanded  the  power 
of  the  Presidential  Guard  (see  The  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces, 
ch.  5).  At  the  same  time,  he  believed  in  his  own  power  to  ' 'reha- 
bilitate" and  co-opt  former  opponents  and  was  sometimes  successful 
in  gaining  a  measure  of  their  trust. 

During  its  first  nearly  three  decades  of  independence,  Chad  had 
a  strong  president  and  weak  state  institutions,  but  it  also  enjoyed 
some  benefits  of  the  weakness  of  the  state.  It  had  been  spared  much 
of  the  flamboyant  political  posturing  that  was  evident  in  a  few  more 
peaceful  and  prosperous  nations.  Habre  had  not  squandered  pub- 
lic resources  on  grandiose  monuments  to  himself,  nor  had  he 
encouraged  a  sycophantic  cult  of  personality.  Public  office  was  not 
yet  synonymous  with  extraordinary  wealth,  and,  as  a  result,  pub- 
lic cynicism  toward  government  in  the  1980s  was  surprisingly  low. 


157 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 
Mass  Media 

Communication  across  Chad's  troubled  regional  boundaries  was 
difficult  in  the  late  1980s.  Even  telephone  service  was  erratic  and 
subject  to  frequent  interruption  (see  Communications,  ch.  3). 
Media  development  had  been  slowed  by  security  problems,  infra- 
structural  weakness,  and  general  economic  disarray.  During  the 
1980s,  some  UN  assistance  was  earmarked  for  improving  print  and 
broadcast  media,  but  in  a  few  cases,  damaged  equipment  was 
destroyed  as  soon  as  it  was  repaired,  and  in  general  progress  was 
slow. 

In  1988  Chad's  only  radio  network,  Radiodiffusion  Nationale 
Tchadienne  (RNT),  was  able  to  reach  the  entire  country  through 
transmitters  located  at  N'Djamena,  Sarh,  Moundou,  and  Abeche. 
RNT's  Voix  de  I  'unite  et  du  progres  (Voice  of  Unity  and  Progress) 
broadcast  news  in  French  three  times  a  day,  as  well  as  a  variety 
of  programs  in  Chadian  Arabic  and  several  local  languages.  Esti- 
mates of  the  number  of  radio  receivers  operating  in  Chad  in  the 
late  1980s  ranged  from  100,000  to  1  million.  No  television  service 
was  available,  but  in  September  1988  France  agreed  to  provide 
CFA  F185  million  to  install  a  television  station  at  N'Djamena  to 
reach  the  surrounding  area. 

Print  media,  too,  were  limited  by  their  lack  of  capital  and  equip- 
ment and  by  travel  and  communications  difficulties.  In  1988  the 
government-owned  Chadian  Press  Agency  (Agence  Tchadienne 
de  Presse)  published  a  daily  bulletin,  Info-Tchad,  in  French,  but 
its  circulation  was  only  1,500.  The  UNIR  information  office  also 
published  a  weekly  newsletter,  Al  Watan,  in  French  and  Arabic. 
French  newspapers  such  as  Le  Monde  were  also  available,  and 
government  communiques  were  circulated  in  most  cities. 

All  media  were  owned  and  controlled  by  the  government.  Even 
the  underground  publication  of  antigovernment  views  was  rela- 
tively rare,  although  Radio  Bardai  broadcast  antigovernment  views 
on  behalf  of  opposition  groups,  usually  in  Chadian  Arabic.  Chad's 
small  journalistic  community  looked  forward  to  the  improvement 
of  nationwide  media  as  a  means  of  educating  and  unifying  the  popu- 
lation. 

Foreign  Relations 

Chad  lacked  established  channels  for  foreign  policy  debate  in 
the  late  1980s.  Few  people  were  accustomed  to  formulating  or 
expressing  foreign  policy  concerns  beyond  the  desire  for  peace  and 
an  end  to  foreign  intervention.  As  a  result,  Chad's  foreign  policy 
reflected  its  colonial  past,  economic  and  military  needs,  and  the 


158 


Government  and  Politics 


quest  for  national  sovereignty.  Habre's  overall  plan  for  reinforc- 
ing national  sovereignty  was  to  eliminate  Libyan  intervention  in 
the  north,  to  reduce  the  nation's  dependence  on  France,  and,  even- 
tually, to  proclaim  a  democratic  state  of  Chad.  Consistent  with  its 
liberal  economy  and  relatively  small  public  sector,  Chad's  foreign 
policy  was  pro- Western  in  the  1980s,  but  the  basis  for  this  orien- 
tation was  rooted  in  its  dependence  on  Western  military  assistance 
and  foreign  aid  and  investment,  rather  than  on  popular  concern 
about  superpower  rivalries.  Habre  maintained  in  1988  that  the 
spread  of  communism  posed  a  threat  to  Africa,  but  he  intended, 
nonetheless,  to  assert  Chad's  nonalignment  and  autonomy  from 
the  West  once  peace  with  its  neighbors  was  established. 

After  independence,  Chad's  importance  in  Africa  increased, 
although  its  new  stature  derived  more  from  its  weaknesses  than 
its  strengths.  It  struggled  to  establish  and  maintain  sovereignty 
within  its  boundaries,  as  Libya  claimed  a  portion  of  northern  Chad. 
Numerous  dissidents  within  Chad  considered  Libyan  domination 
preferable  to  Habre's  administration  of  the  1980s  or  continued 
dependence  on  France.  Some  neighboring  states  hoped  Chad  would 
solve  its  internal  problems  and  serve  as  a  buffer  against  Libyan 
advances  into  the  Sahel  (see  Glossary),  pacify  its  warring  rebel 
armies,  and  avoid  destabilizing  their  regimes.  Other  neighboring 
states,  especially  Libya  and  Nigeria,  hoped  to  exploit  Chad's 
mineral  wealth,  and  most  of  Chad's  Arab  neighbors  saw  it  as  a 
potential  ally  in  the  effort  to  weaken  Western  influence  on  the  con- 
tinent. 

Libya  and  France  were  the  key  power  brokers  in  Chad.  Chad's 
relations  with  these  two  nations  were  interrelated  throughout  the 
1980s,  complementing  one  another  in  many  instances.  France's 
ties  with  its  former  colony  were  rooted  in  historical,  economic,  politi- 
cal, and  security  issues.  Libya's  long-standing  ties  with  Chad,  con- 
versely, had  cultural,  ethnic,  and  religious  bases — less  important 
to  governments  but  more  so  to  many  people  in  northern  Chad. 
France  and  Libya  also  formulated  policies  toward  Chad  in  the  con- 
text of  their  own  ambivalent  relationship.  France  imported  Libyan 
oil  at  favorable  prices  and  assisted  Libya's  burgeoning  military 
institutions  yet  faced  the  dilemma  of  arming  both  sides  in  the  dis- 
pute over  the  Aozou  Strip. 

Within  this  foreign  relations  triangle,  Chad's  national  leaders 
confronted  many  of  the  foreign  policy  issues  that  plagued  the  entire 
continent  in  the  1980s — the  legacy  of  arbitrary  colonial  boundaries, 
the  perceived  need  for  strong  armies  to  defend  them,  continuing 
postcolonial  dependence,  questions  regarding  the  role  of  Islam  in 
a  secular  state,  and  the  problem  of  establishing  African  forms  of 


159 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


democracy  under  these  conditions.  Viewed  in  this  light,  Chad's 
political  environment  was  a  microcosm  of  Africa's  international 
concerns. 

Relations  with  France 

France  was  Chad's  most  important  foreign  donor  and  patron 
for  the  first  three  decades  following  independence  in  1960.  At  the 
end  of  the  1980s,  economic  ties  were  still  strong,  and  France  pro- 
vided development  assistance  in  the  form  of  loans  and  grants.  It 
was  no  longer  Chad's  leading  customer  for  agricultural  exports, 
but  it  continued  to  provide  substantial  military  support. 

Chad  remained  a  member  of  the  African  Financial  Community 
(Communaute  Financiere  Africaine — CFA;  for  value  of  the  CFA 
franc — see  Glossary),  which  linked  the  value  of  its  currency,  the 
CFA  franc,  to  the  French  franc.  French  private  and  government 
investors  owned  a  substantial  portion  of  Chad's  industrial  and  finan- 
cial institutions,  and  the  French  treasury  backed  the  Bank  of  Central 
African  States  (Banque  des  Etats  de  l'Afrique  Centrale — BEAC), 
which  served  as  the  central  bank  for  Chad  and  six  other  member 
nations  (see  Banking  and  Finance,  ch.  3).  Chad's  dependence  on 
France  declined  slightiy  during  Habre's  tenure  as  president,  in  part 
because  other  foreign  donors  and  investors  returned  as  the  war  sub- 
sided and  also  because  increased  rainfall  after  1985  improved  food 
production.  French  official  attitudes  toward  Chad  had  changed  from 
the  1970s  policies  under  the  leadership  of  Giscard  d'Estaing  to  those 
of  the  Mitterrand  era  of  the  1980s.  Economic,  political,  and  stra- 
tegic goals,  which  had  emphasized  maintaining  French  influence 
in  Africa,  exploiting  Chad's  natural  resources,  and  bolstering 
francophone  Africa's  status  as  a  bulwark  against  the  spread  of  Soviet 
influence,  had  been  replaced  by  nominally  anticolonialist  attitudes. 
The  election  in  France  of  the  Socialist  government  in  1981  had 
coincided  with  conditions  of  near- anarchy  in  Chad,  leading  France's 
Socialist  Party  to  reaffirm  its  ideological  stance  against  high-profile 
intervention  in  Africa.  Hoping  to  avoid  a  confrontation  with  Libya, 
another  important  client  state  in  the  region,  President  Mitterrand 
limited  French  military  involvement  to  a  defense  of  the  region  sur- 
rounding N'Djamena  in  1983  and  1984.  Then,  gradually  increas- 
ing its  commitment  to  reinforce  Habre's  presidency,  France  once 
again  increased  its  military  activity  in  Chad  (see  The  French  Mili- 
tary Role  in  Chad,  ch.  5). 

Relations  with  Libya 

Chad's  relations  with  Libya,  arising  out  of  centuries  of  ethnic, 
religious,  and  commercial  ties,  were  more  complex  than  those  with 


160 


Government  and  Politics 


France.  Under  French  and  Italian  colonial  domination,  respectively, 
Chad  and  Libya  had  diverged  in  orientation  and  development.  But 
even  after  Chad's  independence  in  1960,  many  northerners  still 
identified  more  closely  with  people  in  Libya  than  with  the  southern- 
dominated  government  in  N'Djamena.  After  seizing  power  in  1969, 
Libyan  head  of  state  Qadhafi  reasserted  Libya's  claim  to  the  Aozou 
Strip,  a  100,000-square-kilometer  portion  of  northern  Chad  that 
included  the  small  town  of  Aozou.  Libya  based  its  claim  on  one 
of  several  preindependence  agreements  regarding  colonial  bound- 
aries, and  it  bolstered  these  claims  by  stationing  troops  in  the  Aozou 
Strip  beginning  in  1972.  (Maps  printed  in  Libya  after  1975  included 
the  Aozou  Strip  within  Libya.) 

Qadhafi 's  desire  to  annex  the  Aozou  Strip  grew  out  of  an  array 
of  concerns,  including  the  region's  reported  mineral  wealth.  He 
also  hoped  to  establish  a  friendly  government  in  Chad  and  to  extend 
Islamic  influence  into  the  Sahel  through  Chad  and  Sudan,  with 
the  eventual  aim  of  a  Central  African  Islamic  empire. 

A  complex  set  of  symbolic  interests  also  underlay  Libya's  pur- 
suit of  territory  and  influence  in  the  Sahel.  Qadhafi 's  anticolonial 
and  anti-imperialist  rhetoric  vacillated  between  attacks  on  the 
United  States  and  a  campaign  focused  on  the  postcolonial  Euro- 
pean presence  in  Africa.  He  hoped  to  weaken  Chad's  ties  with  the 
West  and  thereby  reduce  Africa's  incorporation  into  the  Western- 
dominated  nation-state  system.  Forcing  the  revision  of  one  of  the 
colonially  devised  boundaries  affirmed  by  the  OAU  in  1963  was 
a  step  in  this  direction — one  that  seemed  possible  in  the  context 
of  the  troubled  nation  of  Chad,  which  OAU  members  dubbed  the 
continent's  ' 'weakest  link." 

Qadhafi  attempted  alliances  with  a  number  of  antigovernment 
rebel  leaders  in  Chad  during  the  1970s,  including  Goukouni, 
Siddick,  Acyl  Ahmat  (a  Chadian  of  Arab  descent),  and  Kamougue, 
a  southerner.  Goukouni  and  Acyl  were  most  sympathetic  to 
Qadhafi's  regional  ambitions,  but  these  two  men  clashed  in  1979, 
leading  Acyl  to  form  the  CDR.  After  Acyl's  death  in  1982,  Libyan 
support  swung  strongly  to  Goukouni 's  GUNT  (see  Civil  Conflict 
and  Libyan  Intervention,  ch.  5). 

By  mid- 1988  Qadhafi  appeared  more  willing  to  come  to  an  agree- 
ment with  Habre  than  to  continue  to  support  Qadhafi's  fractious 
allies,  who  had  suffered  losses  at  Habre' s  hands.  Chadian  and 
Libyan  foreign  ministers  met  in  August  1988,  and  the  two  govern- 
ments agreed  to  further  talks.  At  the  same  time,  Libyan  troops 
remained  in  the  Aozou  Strip,  and  its  future  status  was  uncertain 
(see  Repelling  Libya's  Occupying  Force,  1985-87,  ch.  5). 


161 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Relations  with  Nigeria  and  Sudan 

Within  the  complex  and  changing  foreign  relations  triangle  com- 
prising Chad,  France,  and  Libya,  the  large  nations  of  Nigeria  and 
Sudan  were  also  important  actors.  Nigeria  considered  France  its 
primary  rival  in  its  attempt  to  chart  the  course  of  West  Africa's 
political  development.  Its  generally  paternalistic  relations  with  Chad 
intensified  after  the  coup  that  ousted  President  Tombalbaye  in  1975. 
After  that,  limiting  Libyan  expansion  while  avoiding  direct  clashes 
with  Libyan  troops  also  became  important  goals.  Nigeria  sponsored 
talks  among  Chad's  rival  factions  in  1979  and  promoted  a  little- 
known  civil  servant,  Mahmat  Shawa  Lol,  as  a  compromise  head 
of  a  coalition  government.  Lol's  perceived  status  as  a  Nigerian  pup- 
pet contributed  to  mounting  opposition  during  his  short  term  as 
president  in  1979. 

The  two  nations  forged  stronger  ties  during  the  1980s.  Hoping 
to  benefit  commercially  and  diplomatically  by  expanding  regional 
trade  relations,  Nigeria  replaced  France  as  Chad's  major  source 
of  export  revenues.  Bilateral  trade  agreements  involved  Chadian 
exports  of  livestock,  dried  fish,  and  chemicals  and  imports  of 
Nigerian  foodstuffs  and  manufactured  goods.  Both  governments 
also  recognized  the  potential  value  of  the  large  informal  trade  sec- 
tor across  their  borders,  which  neither  country  regulated.  In  addi- 
tion, Nigerian  industry  and  commerce  employed  several  thousand 
Chadian  workers. 

Chad's  relationship  with  Nigeria  was  not  without  its  strains, 
however.  Beginning  in  the  late  1970s,  clashes  occurred  around  Lake 
Chad,  where  both  countries  hoped  to  exploit  oil  reserves.  Both  also 
sought  to  defuse  these  confrontations,  first  by  establishing  joint 
patrols  and  a  commission  to  demarcate  the  boundary  across  the 
lake  more  clearly.  Then  in  the  early  1980s,  the  low  level  of  Lake 
Chad  brought  a  series  of  tiny  islands  into  view,  leading  to  further 
disputes  and  disrupting  long-standing  informal  trade  networks. 

This  relationship  was  also  complicated  by  Nigeria's  own  insta- 
bility in  the  north,  generated  by  rising  Islamic  fundamentalism. 
Thousands  of  casualties  occurred  as  the  result  of  violent  clashes 
in  Nigeria  throughout  the  1980s.  Most  religious  violence  was  domes- 
tic in  origin,  but  Nigerian  police  arrested  a  few  Libyans,  and 
Nigerian  apprehension  of  Libyan  infiltration  through  Chad  inten- 
sified. 

Nigeria's  1983  economic  austerity  campaign  also  produced  strains 
with  neighboring  states,  including  Chad.  Nigeria  expelled  several 
hundred  thousand  foreign  workers,  mostly  from  its  oil  industry, 
which  faced  drastic  cuts  as  a  result  of  declining  world  oil  prices. 


162 


Government  and  Politics 


At  least  30,000  of  those  expelled  were  Chadians.  Despite  these 
strains,  however,  Nigerians  had  assisted  in  the  halting  process  of 
achieving  stability  in  Chad,  and  both  nations  reaffirmed  their 
intention  to  maintain  close  ties. 

Sudan,  Chad's  neighbor  to  the  east,  responded  to  Chad's  con- 
flict with  Libya  based  on  its  own  regional,  ethnic,  and  cultural  ten- 
sions. In  Sudan,  the  Islamic  northern  region  had  generally 
dominated  the  non-Muslim  south.  Sudan's  ties  with  Libya, 
although  cautious  during  the  1970s,  warmed  during  the  1980s, 
strengthening  N'Djamena's  fears  of  insurgency  from  the  east. 

The  populations  of  eastern  Chad  and  western  Sudan  established 
social  and  religious  ties  long  before  either  nation's  independence, 
and  these  remained  strong  despite  disputes  between  governments. 
Herdsmen  in  both  countries  freely  crossed  the  950-kilometer  border, 
seeking  pastureland  and  water  sources  as  they  had  for  centuries. 
Muslims  in  eastern  Chad  often  traveled  through  Sudan  on  the  hajj, 
or  annual  pilgrimage  to  Mecca,  and  many  young  people  from 
eastern  Chad  studied  at  Islamic  schools  in  Sudan.  In  addition, 
Sudan's  cotton  plantations  employed  an  estimated  500,000  Chadian 
workers  in  1978. 

At  the  same  time,  the  basis  for  political  enmity  between  these  two 
nations  was  set  in  the  early  1960s,  when  Chad's  southern  bias  in 
government  offended  many  Sudanese  Muslims.  Sudan  allowed 
FROLINAT  rebels  to  organize,  train,  and  establish  bases  in  western 
Sudan  and  to  conduct  raids  into  Chad  from  Sudan's  Darfur  Prov- 
ince. Refugees  from  both  countries  fled  across  their  mutual  border. 

Following  the  coup  that  ousted  Tombalbaye  in  1975,  relations 
between  presidents  J aafar  an  Numayri  and  Malloum  were  surpris- 
ingly cordial,  in  part  because  both  nations  feared  Libyan  destabili- 
zation.  Sudan  sponsored  talks  among  Chad's  rebel  army  leaders 
in  the  late  1970s  and  urged  Malloum  to  incorporate  them  into  his 
government.  (Numayri  promoted  the  talents  and  intelligence  of 
Habre,  in  particular,  and  persuaded  Malloum  to  appoint  Habre 
to  political  office  in  1978.)  These  ties  were  strained  in  part  because 
of  Numayri 's  warming  relations  with  Libyan  leader  Qadhafi. 

As  violence  in  Chad  increased  between  1979  and  1982,  Sudan 
faced  its  own  internal  rebellion,  and  relations  deteriorated  after 
Numayri  was  ousted  in  1983.  In  1988  Habre  assailed  Sudan  for 
allowing  Libyan  troops  to  be  stationed  along  Chad's  border  and 
for  continuing  to  allow  assaults  on  Chadian  territory  from  Sudan. 

Relations  with  Other  African  States 

Chad  maintained  generally  close  ties  with  its  other  African  neigh- 
bors, but  the  primary  base  of  these  ties  were  Chad's  economic  and 


163 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

security  needs,  together  with  other  governments'  concerns  for 
regional  stability.  Overall,  African  states  sought  to  protect  their 
own  interests — to  isolate  or  contain  Chad's  continuing  violence 
without  becoming  involved  militarily.  As  France  was  attempting 
to  transfer  more  responsibility  to  former  colonies  and  subregional 
powers,  francophone  African  leaders  urged  each  other  and  the 
former  colonial  power  to  increase  assistance  to  Chad.  Each  side 
partially  succeeded. 

African  states  had  other  reasons  for  ambivalence  toward  Chad 
in  addition  to  their  own  security  concerns.  Chad's  long-standing 
unrest,  border  conflicts,  overall  instability,  and  poverty  contributed 
to  its  image  as  a  relatively  unimportant  ally.  It  underwent  frequent 
shifts  in  government;  from  1979  to  1982,  it  was  not  always  clear 
who  was  in  charge.  In  1982  Chad's  new  president,  Habre,  appeared 
to  some  African  heads  of  state  to  be  a  Paris-educated  northerner 
with  aristocratic  pretensions,  who  had  not  done  enough  to  win  their 
support. 

Because  of  Chad's  landlocked  status  and  limited  air  transport 
service,  Cameroon  was  an  important  neighbor  and  ally  through- 
out most  of  the  1970s  and  1980s.  Imports  and  exports  were  shipped 
between  Yaounde  and  N'Djamena  by  rail  and  road,  as  were  mili- 
tary and  food  assistance  shipments.  Cameroon  became  an  increas- 
ingly important  trading  partner  during  the  1980s,  following 
unsuccessful  attempts  in  the  1970s  to  conclude  multilateral  trade 
agreements  with  Congo  and  Central  African  Republic.  In  1987 
Cameroon  was  Chad's  third  largest  source  of  imports  after  France 
and  the  United  States,  and  Cameroon  purchased  Chadian  cotton 
and  agricultural  products. 

The  Cameroonian  town  of  Kousseri  had  been  an  important  sup- 
ply center  and  refuge  for  Chadians  during  the  worst  violence  of 
the  late  1970s  (see  fig.  8).  The  population  of  the  town  increased 
from  10,000  to  100,000  in  1979  and  1980.  Cameroon's  govern- 
ment urged  France  to  increase  assistance  to  stem  Libyan  advances 
because  officials  feared  direct  confrontation  with  Libyan  troops  and 
the  influx  of  weapons  and  refugees  from  Chad. 

Zaire's  President  Mobutu  Sese  Seko  was  one  of  President  Habre 's 
most  consistent  allies  in  Central  Africa.  Even  before  Habre  seized 
power  in  1982,  Mobutu's  desire  to  lead  Africa's  pro-Western,  anti- 
Qadhafi  efforts  and  to  compete  with  Nigeria  as  a  subregional  power 
had  led  him  to  provide  military  training  and  troops  for  the  IAF 
in  Chad. 

Chad's  relations  with  Central  African  Republic  were  not  cordial, 
but  the  two  nations  were  generally  on  good  terms.  Central  African 
Republic  controlled  another  important  access  route,  and  the  two 


164 


An  American  C-5A  delivers  weapons  at  N'Djamena  Airport 

Courtesy  Joseph  Krull 

nations  had  concluded  a  number  of  agreements  regarding  trade, 
transportation,  and  communication.  Chad's  President  Tombalbaye 
had  clashed  with  the  former  president  of  Central  African  Repub- 
lic, Jean-Bedel  Bokassa,  over  the  establishment  of  a  central  Afri- 
can customs  union  in  the  late  1960s,  however,  leading  Tombalbaye 
to  close  their  common  border.  After  this  occurrence,  Central  African 
Republic  remained  fairly  aloof  from  Chad's  economic  and  security 
problems.  Some  Chadian  refugees  crossed  into  Central  African 
Republic  during  the  1980s,  but  Bangui's  major  concern  was 
preventing  Chad's  ongoing  turmoil  from  spreading  across  its 
southern  border. 

Niger  and  Chad  shared  a  number  of  common  features  of  post- 
independence  political  development,  but  these  two  landlocked,  poor 
nations  were  unable  to  contribute  noticeably  to  each  other's  progress. 
The  inhabitants  of  their  northern  provinces — primarily  Tuareg  in 
Niger  and  Toubou  groups  in  Chad — were  both  referred  to  by  Lib- 
yan leader  Qadhafi  as  his  ethnic  constituents,  and  both  nations  com- 
plained of  Libyan  insurgence  in  these  mineral-rich  areas.  At  the  same 
time,  important  segments  of  both  societies  supported  Qadhafi' s  goal 
of  establishing  a  Central  African  Islamic  empire.  Both  nations  also 
shared  the  dual  heritage  of  Muslim  and  Christian  influences  and 
regional  economic  inequities,  and  both  found  themselves  over- 
shadowed by  Nigeria's  wealth  and  large  population. 


165 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Chad  had  become  one  of  Africa's  intractable  dilemmas  in  the 
1970s,  confounding  leaders  who  sought  peace  and  prosperity  for 
the  continent  as  a  whole.  Chad's  conflict  with  Libya  became  sym- 
bolic of  the  OAU's  frustrated  attempts  to  impose  a  coherent  frame- 
work on  Africa,  and  it  defied  the  OAU  resolution  to  uphold 
colonially  imposed  boundaries  and  settle  inter-African  disputes 
peacefully.  The  OAU  formed  a  series  of  ad  hoc  committees  to  medi- 
ate the  Chad- Libya  dispute,  and  in  1988  the  six  committee 
members — Algeria,  Cameroon,  Gabon,  Mozambique,  Nigeria,  and 
Senegal — succeeded  in  bringing  together  foreign  ministers  from 
Chad  and  Libya  to  pursue  diplomatic  recognition  and  peace  talks. 
The  committee  also  requested  written  documentation  of  each  side's 
claims  to  the  Aozou  Strip  in  the  hope  of  finding  a  legal  channel 
for  curbing  violence  there. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

United  States  interest  in  Chad  increased  steadily  during  the 
1980s,  as  United  States  opposition  to  Libyan  leader  Qadhafi  intensi- 
fied and  Chadian  instability  threatened  to  contribute  to  regional 
destabilization.  During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  the  United  States  and 
Chad  had  maintained  fairly  low-level  economic  ties,  including 
investment  guarantees  and  project  aid,  such  as  Peace  Corps  involve- 
ment. Drought  in  the  early  1970s  brought  United  States  food  and 
agricultural  aid  to  remote  areas,  including  grain  supplies,  animal 
health  services,  and  technical  assistance.  Other  economic  agree- 
ments included  road  building  in  the  Lake  Chad  area  and  rural  com- 
munity development. 

Although  the  United  States  considered  Chad  part  of  France's 
sphere  of  influence,  it  also  provided  a  low  level  of  military  assistance 
until  1977.  President  Malloum's  1978  request  for  increased  mili- 
tary aid  to  fight  the  FROLINAT  insurgency  coincided  with  a 
marked  increase  in  Soviet  activity  in  Africa,  especially  in  Ethio- 
pia, and  increased  Soviet  arms  shipments  to  Libya.  United  States 
relations  with  African  states  were  redefined  in  accordance  with  the 
new  strategic  value  assigned  to  African  allies,  and  United  States 
foreign  policy  shifted  accordingly.  Thus,  in  the  1980s  United  States 
interest  and  involvement  in  Chad  increased. 

For  a  time  in  the  early  1980s,  the  United  States  commitment 
to  military  support  for  Habre  was  more  enthusiastic  than  that  of 
France,  which  hoped  to  preserve  its  relationship  with  Libya. 
Although  military  and  financial  aid  to  Habre  increased,  by  1988 
United  States  advisers  had  begun  to  stress  the  need  to  reconcile 
warring  factions  and  pacify  rebel  groups  within  Chad.  United  States 
support  to  Chad  included  several  economic  and  military  aid 


166 


Government  and  Politics 


agreements,  including  training  programs  to  improve  the  effective- 
ness of  Habre 's  administration  and  to  bolster  public  confidence 
in  the  government  and  intelligence-sharing  to  assist  in  countering 
Libyan  forces  in  1987. 

Relations  with  Arab  States 

Despite  centuries-old  cultural  ties  to  Arab  North  Africa,  Chad 
maintained  few  significant  ties  to  North  African  or  Middle  Eastern 
states  in  the  1980s.  (Ties  with  Israel  had  been  severed  in  1972.) 
President  Habre  hoped  to  pursue  greater  solidarity  with  Arab 
nations  in  the  future,  however,  viewing  closer  relations  with  Arab 
states  as  a  potential  opportunity  to  break  out  of  his  nation's  post- 
colonial  dependence  and  assert  Chad's  unwillingness  to  serve  as 
an  arena  for  superpower  rivalries.  In  addition,  as  a  northern  Mus- 
lim, Habre  represented  a  constituency  that  favored  Afro- Arab 
solidarity,  and  he  hoped  Islam  would  provide  a  basis  for  national 
unity  in  the  long  term.  For  these  reasons,  he  was  expected  to  seize 
opportunities  during  the  1990s  to  pursue  closer  ties  with  Arab 
nations. 

During  the  1980s,  several  Arab  states  had  supported  Libyan 
claims  to  the  Aozou  Strip.  Algeria  was  among  the  most  outspoken 
of  these  states  and  provided  training  for  anti-Habre  forces,  although 
most  recruits  for  its  training  programs  were  from  Nigeria  or  Camer- 
oon, recruited  and  flown  to  Algeria  by  Libya.  By  the  end  of  1987, 
Algiers  and  N'Djamena  were  negotiating  to  improve  relations. 
Lebanon's  Progressive  Socialist  Party  also  sent  troops  to  support 
Qadhafi's  efforts  against  Chad  in  1987,  but  other  Arab  states  and 
the  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  limited  their  involvement 
to  expressions  of  hope  that  the  dispute  over  the  Aozou  Strip  could 
be  settled  peacefully. 

*    *  * 

Several  scholars  have  analyzed  Chad's  political  development  dur- 
ing the  1980s.  Robert  Buijtenhuijs,  in  Le  Frolinat  et  les  revokes 
populaires  du  Tchad,  1965-1976  provides  background  on  the  role  of 
the  opposition  coalition  in  shaping  the  political  environment. 
Bernard  Lanne's  Tchad-Libye:  La  querelle  des  frontieres  analyzes  the 
development  of  the  dispute  over  the  Aozou  Strip.  Virginia  M. 
Thompson  and  Richard  Adloff  s  Conflict  in  Chad  provides  valuable 
perspectives  on  attempts  to  bolster  the  faltering  state  in  recent 
decades.  Lanne's  "Chad — Recent  History"  in  Africa  South  of  the 
Sahara,  1988  synthesizes  Chad's  complex  political  dynamics  in  a 
brief,  coherent  narrative.  William  J.  Foltz's  Chad's  Third  Republic 


167 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


assesses  President  Habre's  political  success  and  prospects  for  the 
future.  Several  of  Rene  Lemarchand's  publications — in  particu- 
lar, "Chad:  The  Road  to  Partition"  and  "Chad:  The  Misadven- 
tures of  the  North-South  Dialectic" — provide  insight  into  factional 
politics  in  segmentary  lineage-based  societies. 

Other  valuable  works  include  Samuel  Decalo's  Historical  Dictionary 
of  Chad  (1987  edition),  which  presents  concise  political  entries  and 
a  comprehensive  bibliography.  Gali  N  go  the  Gatta's  Tchad:  Guerre 
civile  et  desagregation  de  Vetat  and  Michael  P.  Kelley's  A  State  in  Disarray 
assess  internal  and  external  factors  contributing  to  Chad's  politi- 
cal turmoil.  Pearl  T.  Robinson's  "Playing  the  Arab  Card" 
describes  Libya's  evolving  role,  and  Kola  Olufemi's  "Chad:  From 
Civil  Strife  to  Big  Power  Rivalry"  traces  the  rising  external  involve- 
ment in  Chad's  political  drama.  Finally,  several  interviews  with 
President  Habre  illuminate  his  political  views.  Selections  from  these 
are  found  in  Courier  (March-April  1987),  Jean-Jacques  Lafaye's 
"Consolider  la  victoire,"  and  Guy  Jeremie  Ngansop's  Tchad:  Vingt 
ans  de  crise. 

A  variety  of  periodicals  provide  coverage  of  events  in  Chad, 
including  Africa  Economic  Digest,  Africa  Report,  Africa  Research  Bulle- 
tin, Africa  Today,  Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia  published 
by  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Marches  tropicaux  et 
mediterraneens ,  Le  Monde,  Politique  africaine,  Politique  internationale, 
Washington  Post  and  West  Africa.  Africa  Contemporary  Record  provides 
annual  updates  on  political  and  economic  developments  and  valu- 
able chapters  on  France  in  Africa  and  the  Organization  for  Afri- 
can Unity.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


168 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


elderly  hunter  from  southern  Chad 


AFTER  CHAD  GAINED  its  independence  in  1960,  its  national 
army  consisted  of  only  about  400  men,  mostiy  members  of  the  Sara 
ethnic  group  who  had  distinguished  themselves  in  French  army 
service  during  World  War  II  and  later  in  Algeria  and  Indochina. 
By  the  mid-1960s,  however,  rebellion  in  northern  and  eastern  Chad 
necessitated  the  enlargement  of  this  army.  The  rebellion  also  caused 
French  forces  stationed  in  nearby  countries  to  intervene  repeatedly 
to  assist  the  Chadian  government. 

By  1979  conditions  had  become  chaotic.  As  many  as  eleven 
separate  factional  armies  were  contending  for  control,  generating 
alliances  and  schisms  at  a  bewildering  rate.  In  the  capital  of 
N'Djamena,  after  the  national  army  had  been  pushed  aside,  the 
two  main  northern  rivals,  Goukouni  Oueddei  and  Hissein  Habre, 
struggled  for  domination.  Libya's  intervention  in  1980  on  behalf 
of  Goukouni  resulted  in  the  defeat  of  Habre 's  army.  With  only 
a  few  hundred  of  his  hardiest  followers  remaining,  Habre  was  forced 
to  seek  a  haven  in  western  Sudan.  But  after  Libya  withdrew  under 
international  pressure,  Habre 's  revitalized  army  fought  its  way  back 
to  the  capital,  and  he  assumed  power  in  1982. 

The  confused  pattern  of  civil  warfare  continued,  but  Habre 
gradually  consolidated  his  political  position  and  brought  the 
resistance  in  the  south  under  control.  With  the  help  of  a  French 
expedition,  he  repelled  a  new  offensive  from  the  north  in  1983  that 
had  been  mounted  by  a  coalition  of  opponents  under  Goukouni 's 
leadership  and  backed  by  Libya's  armor  and  air  power.  In  1986 
a  split  developed  among  the  insurgents  in  the  north  when  the  major 
part  of  Goukouni 's  army  turned  against  the  Libyans.  Joined  by 
these  rebel  forces,  Habre 's  army  was  strong  enough  in  early  1987 
to  wage  a  successful  campaign  to  clear  the  Libyan  invaders  from 
most  of  Chad's  vast  northern  territories  and  to  threaten  the  Aozou 
Strip  (see  Glossary),  which  Libya  had  occupied  since  1972. 

In  1983  the  military  arm  of  Habre 's  movement  became  the 
nucleus  of  a  new  national  army,  the  Chadian  National  Armed 
Forces  (Forces  Armees  Nationales  Tchadiennes — FANT).  By  1987 
FANT  had  evolved  into  a  potent,  mobile,  and  battle-tested  mili- 
tary organization.  It  had  acquired  modern  arms  adapted  to  the 
rigorous  conditions  of  the  far-flung  arena  of  conflict  in  the  north. 
In  addition  to  receiving  arms  deliveries  from  France  and  the  United 
States,  FANT  had  captured  a  large  stock  of  Libyan  armored  vehi- 
cles, missiles,  artillery,  and  materiel.  In  its  stricken  financial  state, 


171 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


the  country  continued  to  be  dependent  on  its  Western  backers  for 
munitions  and  fuel,  as  well  as  maintenance  and  training  support 
for  its  newly  acquired  weaponry.  Its  air  arm  was  insignificant,  but 
French  transport  and  combat  aircraft  remained  in  the  country. 
Moreover,  the  army's  antiaircraft  missile  defenses  had  effectively 
blunted  Libyan  air  assaults. 

Habre  had  been  remarkably  successful  in  enlisting  previously 
bitter  adversaries  in  a  common  undertaking  to  regain  the  nation's 
territory.  As  part  of  the  reconciliation  with  his  former  armed 
opponents,  Habre  had  absorbed  into  FANT  the  remnants  of  the 
postindependence  national  army,  dissident  guerrilla  fighters  from 
the  south,  and  most  of  the  rebel  coalition  forces  of  his  northern 
rival,  Goukouni.  Only  the  Presidential  Guard,  a  select  force  mostly 
drawn  from  Habre 's  own  ethnic  group,  retained  its  separate 
identity. 

This  large  assemblage  of  manpower,  however,  could  not  be 
militarily  justified  as  a  permanent  force  once  the  Libyan  danger 
was  removed.  For  the  future,  a  major  problem  for  the  military 
leadership  would  be  the  welding  of  FANT  into  an  integrated  force 
of  sufficient  loyalty  to  be  entrusted  with  a  primarily  internal  security 
mission  and  at  strengths  and  equipment  levels  compatible  with  the 
country's  financial  means  and  defense  requirements. 

External  and  Domestic  Security  Concerns 

At  independence  Chad's  economic  and  strategic  importance  was 
limited.  Isolated  and  landlocked,  it  boasted  no  developed  natural 
resources,  and  most  of  its  inhabitants  lived  at  the  subsistence  level. 
There  were  few  enduring  disputes  or  traditional  animosities  likely 
to  precipitate  discord  with  its  African  neighbors.  Because  of  Chad's 
good  relations  with  its  neighbors,  it  was  a  very  unlikely  candidate 
for  international  attention. 

In  spite  of  these  factors,  Chad's  vast  territories  have  been  a  demo- 
graphic and  cultural  crossroads  where  outside  forces  have  often  com- 
peted for  influence.  The  most  significant  of  these  forces  has  been 
Libya,  whose  efforts  to  assert  itself  in  Chad  have  historical  roots 
(see  Civil  Conflict  and  Libyan  Intervention,  this  ch.).  In  modern 
times,  however,  these  efforts  have  been  ascribed  to  the  ambition 
of  Libyan  leader  Muammar  al  Qadhafi,  who  hoped  to  impose  his 
concept  of  Islamic  unity  on  African  states  bordering  the  Sahel  (see 
Glossary).  Asserting  a  legal  claim  to  the  Aozou  Strip  in  northern 
Chad,  Libya  occupied  the  territory  in  1972.  To  further  his  claim 
to  the  region,  Qadhafi  used  troops  from  Libya's  Islamic  Legion — a 
unit  whose  members  were  recruited  from  among  Muslims  of  Cen- 
tral Africa  and  West  Africa.  With  no  demonstrated  economic  value, 


172 


A  former  French  Foreign  Legion  fort  in  Fada 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

the  area  was  useful  primarily  as  a  forward  base  to  facilitate  Libya's 
interference  in  Chadian  military  and  political  affairs.  In  response 
to  Libya's  claims,  Chadian  forces,  supplied  by  France  and  the 
United  States,  inflicted  a  series  of  defeats  on  Libya  in  1987.  These 
strokes  alleviated  the  threat  from  Qadhafi,  although  continued 
Libyan  occupation  of  the  Aozou  Strip  left  the  ultimate  resolution 
of  the  conflict  undecided. 

No  other  adjacent  state  has  sought  to  stake  out  areas  of  influence 
or  to  assert  territorial  claims  in  Chad.  In  1987  three  of  Chad's 
neighbors — Niger,  Cameroon,  and  Central  African  Republic — 
had  only  nominal  military  establishments,  which  posed  no  threat 
to  the  relatively  large  and  well-equipped  Chadian  army.  Their 
mutual  relations,  moreover,  were  amicable,  based  on  their  shared 
experiences  as  members  of  the  French  colonial  empire  and  con- 
tinued military  collaboration  with  France.  Several  regional  states, 
including  Cameroon,  Gabon,  and  Zaire,  have  directly  or  indirectly 
supported  Chad  in  its  conflict  with  Libya. 

Bordering  Lake  Chad,  Nigeria,  the  most  powerful  of  Chad's  sub- 
Saharan  neighbors,  has  been  involved  at  various  times  with  Chad 
in  a  peacekeeping  role.  One  purpose  of  Nigeria's  involvement  was 
to  reduce  Chad's  need  for  a  French  military  presence;  Nigeria  has 
historically  viewed  French  interests  in  Africa  with  suspicion.  But 
a  more  important  purpose  was  to  prevent  Qadhafi  from  gaining 


173 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


a  foothold  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  from  which  he  could  further  his 
vision  of  radical  Arab  socialism  under  an  Islamic  banner. 

Chad's  other  large  neighbor,  Sudan,  had  given  refuge  to  Habre 
and  had  helped  reequip  his  army  after  its  defeat  in  1980  by  the 
combined  forces  of  Goukouni  and  Libya.  Subsequently,  fearful  of 
offending  Qadhafi  and  inciting  him  to  aid  the  rebellion  in  its  own 
southern  region,  Sudan  adopted  a  neutral  posture.  Chad's  border 
with  Sudan  remained  volatile  in  1988.  Rebellious  tribal  groups, 
dispersed  remnants  of  Goukouni 's  defeated  northern  forces,  Libyan 
troops,  and  members  of  the  Islamic  Legion  were  all  involved  in 
cross-border  fighting.  In  this  environment,  banditry  could  not  easily 
be  distinguished  from  civil  conflict. 

Since  Chad's  independence  in  1960,  the  absence  of  cohesive  social 
and  economic  forces  has  produced  conditions  of  almost  constant 
domestic  turmoil  and  violence.  Competing  groups  have  tried  to 
protect  their  own  interests  by  supporting  local  "armies" — often 
armed  bands  of  no  more  than  a  few  hundred  ill-trained  recruits. 
Badly  equipped  and  lacking  a  stable  source  of  funds,  these  factions 
turned  to  foreign  patrons  to  keep  their  movements  viable. 

Concurrent  with  the  success  of  his  military  campaigns,  Habre 
pursued  a  policy  of  reconciliation  with  dissident  groups.  As  a  result, 
by  1987  he  had  either  won  over  or  defeated  all  his  major  rivals. 
Several  former  factional  leaders  who  had  contested  Habre  on  the 
battlefield  had  been  granted  senior  positions  in  the  central  govern- 
ment, and  their  forces  either  had  been  integrated  into  the  national 
army  or  had  peacefully  demobilized.  As  of  1988,  only  two  rivals 
of  any  stature  remained — Goukouni  and  Acheikh  ibn  Oumar. 
Goukouni  no  longer  commanded  significant  military  forces,  and 
his  reconciliation  with  Habre  remained  a  possibility.  Oumar' s 
Democratic  Revolutionary  Council  (Conseil  Democratique  Revolu- 
tionnaire — CDR)  had  been  decimated  in  the  1987  fighting,  and 
the  smaller  Arab  groups  that  constituted  his  following  were  of  little 
significance.  Nonetheless,  revival  of  these  movements  with  the  aid 
of  Libyan  patronage  could  not  be  ruled  out.  It  was  feared  that  Libya 
might  use  support  for  them  as  a  pretext  for  renewed  intervention. 

Few  observers  believed  that  ethnic  rivalries  had  been  permanendy 
suppressed  or  that  new  factional  disputes  would  not  arise  to  threaten 
domestic  stability.  In  1987  reports  revealed  that  one  small  resistance 
force,  recruited  among  the  Hajerai  ethnic  group,  had  become  active 
in  the  mountains  of  Guera  Prefecture  (see  fig.  1 ;  Languages  and 
Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2).  Known  as  the  Movement  for  the  National 
Salvation  of  Chad  (Mouvement  pour  le  Salut  National  du  Tchad — 
MOSANAT),  it  claimed  to  have  been  formed  in  protest  against 
heavy  taxes  and  exactions  by  the  government,  which  northerners 


174 


National  Security 


dominated.  In  late  1987,  however,  MOSANAT  rebels  had  fled 
across  the  nearby  Sudanese  border  (see  Internal  Security  Condi- 
tions, this  ch.). 

The  Armed  Forces 

From  independence  through  the  period  of  the  presidency  of  Felix 
Malloum  (1975-79),  the  official  national  army  was  known  as  the 
Chadian  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes — FAT;  see 
Appendix  B).  Composed  mainly  of  soldiers  from  southern  Chad, 
FAT  had  its  roots  in  the  army  recruited  by  France  and  had  mili- 
tary traditions  dating  back  to  World  War  I.  FAT  lost  its  status  as 
the  legal  state  army  when  Malloum 's  civil  and  military  adminis- 
tration disintegrated  in  1979.  Although  it  remained  a  distinct  mili- 
tary body  for  several  years,  FAT  was  eventually  reduced  to  the 
status  of  a  regional  army  representing  the  south. 

After  Habre  consolidated  his  authority  and  assumed  the  presi- 
dency in  1982,  his  victorious  army,  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  North 
(Forces  Armees  du  Nord — FAN),  became  the  nucleus  of  a  new 
national  army.  The  force  was  officially  constituted  in  January  1983, 
when  the  various  pro-Habre  contingents  were  merged  and  renamed 
FANT. 

Origins  and  Early  Development 

When  Chad  became  independent  in  1960,  it  had  no  armed  forces 
under  its  own  flag.  Since  World  War  I,  however,  southern  Chad, 
particularly  the  Sara  ethnic  group,  had  provided  a  large  share  of 
the  Africans  in  the  French  army.  Chadian  troops  also  had  con- 
tributed significantly  to  the  success  of  the  Free  French  forces  in 
World  War  II.  In  December  1940,  two  African  battalions  began 
the  Free  French  military  campaign  against  Italian  forces  in  Libya 
from  a  base  in  Chad,  and  at  the  end  of  1941  a  force  under  Colonel 
Jacques  Leclerc  participated  in  a  spectacular  campaign  that  seized 
the  entire  Fezzan  region  of  southern  Libya.  Colonel  Leclerc 's 
3,200-man  force  included  2,700  Africans,  the  great  majority  of  them 
southerners  from  Chad.  These  troops  went  on  to  contribute  to  the 
Allied  victory  in  Tunisia.  Chadians,  in  general,  were  proud  of  their 
soldiers'  role  in  the  efforts  to  liberate  France  and  in  the  interna- 
tional conflict. 

The  military  involvement  also  provided  the  country's  first  taste 
of  relative  prosperity.  In  addition  to  the  wages  paid  its  forces,  Chad 
received  economic  benefits  from  three  years  of  use  as  a  major  route 
for  Allied  supply  convoys  and  flights  to  North  Africa  and  Egypt. 
By  1948  about  15,000  men  in  French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique 
Equatoriale  Francaise — AEF;  see  Glossary)  were  receiving  military 


175 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


pensions.  Many  Chadian  southerners,  finding  military  life  attrac- 
tive, had  remained  in  the  French  army,  often  becoming  noncom- 
missioned officers  (NCOs);  a  few  had  earned  commissions  as  well. 
The  French  wars  in  Indochina  (1946-53)  and  Algeria  (1954-62) 
also  drew  on  Chadians  in  great  numbers,  enlarging  the  veteran 
population  still  further.  Those  men  receiving  pensions  tended  to 
form  the  economic  elite  in  their  villages.  As  southerners  they  did 
not  become  involved  in  later  insurgent  movements  that  developed 
in  central  and  northern  Chad. 

Prior  to  independence,  the  French  forces  had  been  reorganized 
to  redeploy  some  of  the  Chadian  troops  assigned  to  other  African 
territories  back  into  Chad.  Following  independence  Chad's  army 
was  created  from  southern  troops  that  had  served  with  the  French 
army.  Initially,  the  army  was  limited  to  400  men,  some  Chadian 
officers  and  many  French  commissioned  officers  and  NCOs.  Other 
soldiers  were  transferred  into  a  larger  paramilitary  security  force, 
the  National  Gendarmerie  (see  Police  Services,  this  ch.).  Equipped 
with  light  arms  and  other  supplies,  the  army  used  facilities  inherited 
from  the  French  units  that  it  had  replaced. 

Because  the  French  army  units  in  Chad  provided  security,  a  large 
indigenous  force  was  unnecessary.  Accordingly,  the  Chadian  army 
was  deliberately  restricted  in  size.  By  1966,  however,  the  depar- 
ture of  the  French  administration  from  sparsely  populated  Borkou- 
Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture  in  the  north  encouraged  dissident  forces 
in  the  central  prefectures  to  rebel.  In  response  the  government 
expanded  its  armed  strength  to  a  700-man  infantry  battalion  with 
supporting  light  artillery  and  also  activated  an  air  unit  (see  The 
Air  Force,  this  ch.). 

The  continued  insurgency  necessitated  further  enlargement  of 
the  army,  to  a  total  of  3,800  men  by  1971.  The  army  formed  a 
paratroop  company  from  350  Chadians  trained  by  Israeli  instruc- 
tors at  a  base  in  Zaire.  In  addition  to  strengthening  the  regular 
army,  the  government  increased  mobile  security  companies  of  the 
National  Gendarmerie,  equipped  as  light  infantry,  to  a  strength 
of  more  than  1,600  men.  A  third  force,  the  National  Guard  (later 
known  as  the  National  and  Nomad  Guard),  which  had  at  least  3,500 
members,  provided  security  for  officials,  government  buildings, 
and  regional  government  posts. 

Except  for  the  small  number  of  nomad  guards,  the  army  and 
other  security  components  continued  to  be  composed  primarily  of 
members  from  southern  ethnic  groups,  especially  the  Sara.  Little 
effort  was  made  to  enlist  northerners,  who,  in  spite  of  their  repu- 
tation as  fierce  warriors,  were  not  attracted  to  the  professional  army. 
Consequendy,  southern  troops  stationed  in  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti 


176 


Chadian  military  vehicles  on  parade,  around  1970 
Courtesy  Michael  R.  Saks 

Prefecture  were  looked  upon  as  an  army  of  occupation.  They 
imposed  humiliating  restrictions  in  the  northern  settlements,  and 
their  abusive  behavior  was  a  source  of  bitterness. 

The  growing  unpopularity  of  the  country's  first  president, 
Francois  Tombalbaye,  impelled  him  to  strengthen  further  the  inter- 
nal security  forces  and  to  employ  a  unit  of  Moroccan  troops  as  his 
personal  bodyguard.  During  the  early  1970s,  Tombalbaye  doubled 
the  size  of  the  National  and  Nomad  Guard  and  augmented  the 
National  Gendarmerie  considerably.  At  the  same  time,  he  neglected 
and  downgraded  FAT,  which  the  force  interpreted  as  a  lack  of  trust. 
These  actions  ultimately  contributed  to  the  decision  by  a  small  group 
of  officers  to  carry  out  a  coup  in  1975  that  resulted  in  Tombalbaye 's 
death  and  a  new  government  under  Malloum's  presidency. 

Malloum's  military  regime  insisted  on  the  departure  of  the 
French  troops.  FAT,  however,  found  itself  increasingly  unable  to 
cope  with  the  insurgency  in  the  north,  and,  as  a  consequence, 
Malloum  was  obliged  to  invite  the  French  back  in  1978.  As  part 
of  an  effort  at  conciliation  with  one  of  the  rebel  factions,  Habre 
was  brought  into  the  government.  Habre  rejected,  however,  the 
plan  to  integrate  his  FAN  troops  into  the  army,  and  his  force  soon 
demonstrated  its  superior  resolution  and  strength  by  expelling 
Malloum's  army  from  N'Djamena  (see  The  FROLINAT  Rebel- 
lion, 1965-79,  this  ch.). 


177 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Organization  of  the  National  Security  Establishment 

By  the  late  1980s,  Chad's  national  security  establishment  was 
a  conglomeration  of  former  rebel  armies  under  the  command  of 
Habre,  whose  troops  were  mostly  from  the  north.  The  evolution 
of  the  national  security  establishment  from  an  army  of  mostly 
southerners  was  rapid.  This  change  occurred  between  April  1975, 
when  Malloum  assumed  power,  and  early  1979,  when  the  com- 
bined northern  forces  of  Habre  and  Goukouni  drove  the  southern- 
dominated  FAT  from  N'Djamena. 

Internecine  conflict  in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  however, 
prevented  Chad  from  achieving  political  or  military  unity.  Erst- 
while comrades  Habre  and  Goukouni  became  bitter  adversaries, 
and,  with  Libyan  backing,  Goukouni  evicted  Habre  from  the  capital 
in  1980.  Although  forced  to  flee,  Habre  had  fought  his  way  back 
to  N'Djamena  by  mid-1982.  His  occupation  of  the  city  was  fol- 
lowed by  victories  in  the  south  against  his  divided  opponents  (see 
Habre 's  Return  to  Power  and  Second  Libyan  Intervention, 
1982-84,  this  ch.).  With  most  regions  of  the  country  now  under 
his  authority,  Habre  assumed  the  presidency,  promulgated  a  provi- 
sional constitution,  the  Fundamental  Law  of  1982,  and  introduced 
a  cabinet  and  other  institutions  broadly  representative  of  the  existing 
political  forces  (see  Constitutional  System,  ch.  4). 

The  Fundamental  Law,  which  remained  in  effect  as  of  1988, 
declares  that  the  president  is  the  supreme  commander  of  the  army 
and  is  authorized  to  appoint  high-ranking  military  officers,  such 
appointments  to  be  subject  to  implementing  decrees  approved  by 
the  Council  of  Ministers  (cabinet).  Article  21  of  the  Fundamental 
Law  states  that  "under  the  authority  of  the  President  of  the  Repub- 
lic, the  Chief  of  State,  and  the  government,  the  national  army  has 
the  task  of  defending  the  national  independence  and  unity, 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity,  the  security  of  the  country,  and 
its  preservation  from  subversion  and  any  aggression.  The  army 
participates  in  the  work  of  national  reconstruction." 

Habre,  who  had  personally  commanded  the  major  element  of 
the  northern  forces  during  most  of  the  Chadian  Civil  War,  retained 
the  title  of  supreme  commander  and  a  large  measure  of  control 
over  the  military  establishment.  In  addition  to  his  positions  as  presi- 
dent and  supreme  commander,  Habre  had  assumed  the  ministerial 
portfolio  of  national  defense,  veterans,  and  war  victims.  In  a  prac- 
tical sense,  however,  in  1988  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense, 
Veterans,  and  War  Victims  was  not  a  fully  staffed  government 
department  independent  of  the  military  command  structure. 


178 


National  Security 


At  the  head  of  the  military  chain  of  command  in  1988  was 
Hassane  Djamouss,  the  commander  in  chief  of  FANT  and  the  bat- 
tlefield commander  during  the  succession  of  military  victories  over 
Libya.  His  senior  deputy  with  responsibility  for  administration  and 
logistics  was  Zamtato  Ganebang.  The  second  deputy,  Adoum 
Yacoub,  formerly  commander  of  the  People's  Armed  Forces  (Forces 
Armees  Populaires — FAP),  a  rebel  army  in  the  north,  was  respon- 
sible for  tactics  and  operations.  Another  former  rebel  leader,  Oki 
Dagache  Yaya,  was  the  senior  representative  of  the  FAP  units  that 
had  been  integrated  into  FANT. 

The  creation  of  a  five-member  military  cabinet  attached  to  the 
presidency,  on  which  several  of  the  ethnic  groups  composing  FANT 
were  represented,  was  one  of  the  measures  adopted  by  Habre  to 
provide  a  governmental  role  for  his  former  opponents.  The  extent 
to  which  Habre  relied  on  its  advice  on  matters  of  military  policy 
was  not  certain;  some  observers  believe  that  Habre 's  former  adver- 
saries had  been  given  symbolic  positions  having  no  real  influence. 
The  headquarters  staff  of  FANT  totaled  about  twenty  officers  and 
was  composed  of  a  number  of  bureaus  patterned  after  those  of  the 
French  military.  Included  were  personnel  (B-l),  intelligence  (B-2), 
operations  (B-3),  logistics  (B-4),  and  communications  (B-5).  Others 
bureaus  were  tactics  and  recruitment.  French  advisers  were  detailed 
to  all  but  the  intelligence  bureau  (see  fig.  9). 

The  Presidential  Guard  (Securite  Presidentielle — SP)  was  respon- 
sible for  the  personal  security  of  the  president  and  performed  other 
internal  security  duties  as  well.  Although  the  Presidential  Guard 
participated  in  combat  missions,  it  functioned  as  an  independent 
wing  of  the  armed  forces.  The  Presidential  Guard  depended  on 
FANT  headquarters  for  administration  and  was  officially  part  of 
FANT's  structure,  but  it  operated  as  a  separate  army,  often  in  semi- 
secrecy.  Dominated  by  soldiers  of  Habre's  ethnic  group,  the  Daza, 
it  enjoyed  many  privileges  and  was  assigned  the  most  modern  trans- 
portation equipment  and  weaponry.  In  1987  the  3,600-man  force 
was  commanded  by  Ahmed  Gorou. 

Except  for  the  north,  which  had  been  organized  into  a  separate 
military  region,  the  country  was  divided  into  twelve  military  zones, 
each  with  headquarters  in  a  major  town.  The  senior  officer,  gener- 
ally a  major  of  the  Presidential  Guard,  held  command  responsi- 
bility for  any  military  units  within  his  designated  zone.  Subzones 
were  located  in  smaller  communities,  usually  under  a  lieutenant. 

The  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces 

As  of  mid-1987,  FANT  had  a  manpower  strength  of  28,000, 
exclusive  of  the  Presidential  Guard.  At  the  time  of  its  official 


179 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


SUPREME  COMMANDER 


PRESIDENTIAL 
GUARD 


MILITARY 
CABINET 


COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF 


CHIEF  OF  SPECIAL 
HEADQUARTERS 


INSPECTOR  OF 
THE  ARMY 


CONTROLLER 

GENERAL 
OF  THE  ARMY 


DIRECTOR  OF 
PROGRAMS  AND 
PLANNING 


DIRECTOR  OF 

MILITARY 
COOPERATION 


FIRST  ASSISTANT 
COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF 


COMMANDER 
GROUND  FORCES 


SECOND  ASSISTANT 
COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF 


COUNSELOR 


COMMANDER 
AIR  FORCE 


COMMANDER 
MILITARY  POLICE 


HIGH  COMMAND 
HEADQUARTERS 


INTERSERVICE 
DIRECTORATES 


PERSONNEL 


INTELLIGENCE 


OPERATIONS 


COMMUNICATIONS 


TACTICS 


RECRUITMENT 


Figure  9.  Organization  of  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces,  Late  1985 


establishment  in  1983,  FANT  consisted  primarily  of  FAN  troops, 
the  well-disciplined  and  hardened  combat  veterans  who  had  been 
the  original  followers  of  Habre.  FANT  gradually  expanded,  recruit- 
ing members  of  the  former  national  army,  FAT,  who  were  pre- 
dominantly southerners  of  the  Sara  ethnic  group.  Later,  additional 
southerners,  the  commandos  or  codos  who  had  opened  a  guerrilla 
campaign  against  the  government  in  1983,  were  won  over  after 
two  and  one-half  years  of  negotiations.  Assigned  to  rehabilitation 
camps  for  retraining,  the  physically  fit  among  them  were  also 
inducted  into  FANT.  Finally,  in  the  latter  half  of  1986,  after  FAP, 
the  largest  component  of  Goukouni's  northern  rebel  army,  had 


180 


National  Security 


revolted  against  its  Libyan  ally,  FAP  soldiers  were  merged  into 
FANT  to  join  the  campaign  against  the  Libyan  bases  in  Chad  (see 
Appendix  B). 

Under  Chadian  law,  both  men  and  women  reaching  the  age  of 
twenty-one  were  obligated  for  one  year  of  military  or  civic  service. 
There  was  no  systematic  conscription  system;  young  men  were  sim- 
ply rounded  up  periodically  in  their  communities  and  required  to 
serve  in  the  army  for  longer  or  shorter  periods  as  military  needs 
dictated.  According  to  one  source,  very  few  members  of  FANT 
were  conscripts  in  1987.  Women  served  in  the  military,  but  their 
exact  duties  were  unknown. 

The  Chadian  army  has  never  been  organized  at  higher  than  bat- 
talion level.  As  of  1987,  four  battalions  had  been  established  within 
FANT.  Sometimes  known  as  "commando  battalions,"  they  were 
far  smaller  than  standard  battalions,  with  no  more  than  400  soldiers 
in  each.  Two  of  the  battalions  had  completed  training  in  Zaire, 
and  the  training  of  a  third  was  under  way.  The  fourth  battalion 
existed  mainly  on  paper;  the  companies  assigned  to  it  were  still 
operating  independently. 

The  bulk  of  the  remainder  of  FANT  consisted  of  127  infantry 
companies.  Each  company  had  a  nominal  strength  of  about  150 
men  but  in  many  cases  as  few  as  100  because  of  casualties  and  other 
forms  of  attrition.  The  organizational  pattern  was  flexible;  a  new 
company  could  be  formed  as  needed  by  detaching  troops  from 
existing  units  and  then  might  be  dismantled  after  the  operational 
need  had  ended.  Moreover,  a  force  of  wheeled  armored  vehicles 
was  organized  separately  into  armored  squadrons,  each  ordinarily 
supplied  with  ten  or  eleven  vehicles  along  with  truck-mounted  recoil- 
less  rifles  and  antitank  missiles,  and  subdivided  in  up  to  four 
armored  sections.  The  armored  squadrons  could  be  detailed  as 
needed  to  operate  in  conjunction  with  infantry  companies. 

FANT  had  no  separate  elements  dedicated  to  airborne  opera- 
tions. Soldiers  trained  as  paratroopers,  however,  were  scattered 
throughout  FANT  and  the  Presidential  Guard  after  they  had 
received  instruction  from  the  French  teams  that  visited  Chad  and 
other  French-speaking  African  states  annually  for  this  purpose. 

Because  of  the  chaotic  conditions  and  the  severe  financial  con- 
straints on  the  government,  systematic  promotions  in  the  officer 
corps  had  been  suspended  in  the  1970s.  As  a  result,  many  officers 
with  senior  responsibilities  were  lieutenants  or  captains,  or  they 
held  no  formal  military  rank  at  all.  Officers  of  Habre's  original 
FAN  were  known  simply  as  camarade  (comrade),  and  many,  like 
the  commander  in  chief,  Djamouss,  continued  to  be  addressed  in 


181 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


this  way.  Trusted  associates  of  Habre  were  sometimes  detached 
from  civilian  posts  and  given  temporary  military  commands. 

Those  officers  of  the  former  national  army,  FAT,  who  rallied 
to  FANT  were  guaranteed  retention  of  their  former  ranks,  but  not 
positions  of  equivalent  responsibility.  Accordingly,  a  major  or 
colonel  sometimes  served  under  a  lieutenant  or  captain.  On  occa- 
sion, an  officer  selected  for  training  abroad  might  be  granted  the 
rank  appropriate  for  the  program  to  which  he  had  been  nominated, 
in  effect  resulting  in  his  promotion.  Thus,  Idris  Deby,  the  former 
commander  in  chief  of  FANT,  was  promoted  to  lieutenant  colonel 
in  conjunction  with  his  attendance  at  the  French  war  college.  With 
the  exception  of  two  generals  no  longer  holding  active  commands 
in  1988,  the  highest  rank  in  FANT  was  that  of  colonel. 

The  main  fighting  units  of  FANT,  a  group  that  had  performed 
superbly  against  the  Libyans  during  the  1987  offensive,  were  young 
but  toughened  by  several  years  of  harsh  desert  warfare.  Their  tactics 
of  rapid  movement  and  sudden  sweeps  upon  an  unsuspecting  enemy 
were  reminiscent  of  their  nomadic  warrior  forebears.  Decentral- 
ized decision  making  reportedly  permitted  field  commanders  to 
mount  major  attacks  on  their  own  initiative.  Limited  by  poor  com- 
munications, these  commanders,  in  turn,  sometimes  described  only 
general  objectives  in  advance  of  an  attack  and  depended  on  indi- 
vidual unit  leaders  to  coordinate  blows  of  devastating  surprise  and 
firepower. 

Foreign  military  observers  were  impressed  by  FANT's  fighting 
style  and  rated  it  highly  for  esprit  and  combativeness.  Neverthe- 
less, the  discipline  and  orderliness  of  a  traditional  army  were  not 
greatiy  in  evidence.  Except  for  members  of  the  Presidential  Guard, 
who  favored  the  desert  camouflage  uniform  of  the  United  States 
Army  if  it  were  available,  the  troops  did  not  wear  a  standard  uni- 
form. Personal  gear  sometimes  consisted  merely  of  a  prayer  rug — 
which  also  served  as  a  sleeping  pad — and  a  sheepskin  for  warmth. 
Shower  clogs  were  considered  adequate  footgear,  nor  were  the 
rations  what  one  might  expect  in  a  regular  army.  Individual  com- 
bat rations  were  often  no  more  than  green  tea,  dried  dates,  and 
hard  biscuits.  Occasionally,  meat  from  a  slaughtered  sheep  or  camel 
would  be  available.  A  FANT  veteran  could  survive  desert  heat  on 
as  little  as  one  liter  of  water  a  day. 

Unreliable  payment  of  wages  was  a  persistent  problem  for  FANT 
troops.  The  bitterness  in  the  south  against  the  central  government, 
which  had  resulted  in  outbreaks  of  violence  between  1983  and  1985, 
was  caused  in  part  by  confiscations  of  food  and  personal  property 
by  unpaid  FANT  troops.  As  of  1983,  it  was  reported  that  FANT 
soldiers  were  paid  the  equivalent  of  US$140  for  each  major  battle, 


182 


National  Security 


although  those  qualified  to  fire  large-caliber  weapons  and  missiles 
could  earn  much  more.  By  1986  a  system  of  monthly  payments 
was  in  effect,  but,  owing  to  the  government's  financial  distress, 
both  soldiers  and  civil  servants  were  on  half  pay.  In  practice,  only 
the  Presidential  Guard  received  its  wages  in  full  and  on  a  timely 
basis.  The  salary  of  an  NCO  in  the  Presidential  Guard  was  about 
US$70  a  month;  officers  could  earn  up  to  US$150.  In  FANT,  the 
officer's  basic  salary  of  about  US$70  a  month  was  likely  to  be  aug- 
mented by  supplemental  allowances  based  on  the  position  being 
filled.  Djamouss,  the  highest  paid  officer  in  FANT,  earned  about 
US$1 ,000  a  month,  plus  the  use  of  an  automobile  and  a  house  and 
other  privileges. 

Although  the  military  victories  of  1987  had  imparted  a  sense  of 
national  pride  and  unity  to  FANT  that  had  not  existed  previously, 
the  dependability  of  the  troops  newly  recruited  from  other  armed 
factions  had  not  yet  been  fully  demonstrated.  In  early  1988,  long- 
standing animosities  and  ethnic  rivalries  remained,  and  morale 
among  ordinary  soldiers  was  believed  to  be  no  better  than  fair.  Rates 
of  desertion  and  absence  without  leave  were  high,  although  not 
yet  serious  enough  to  affect  the  army's  performance.  Neverthe- 
less, in  spite  of  its  austerity,  military  life  provided  food,  clothing, 
and  minimal  cash  compensation.  For  many  recruits,  these  modest 
benefits  compared  favorably  with  the  impoverished  conditions  they 
faced  when  they  returned  to  civilian  existence. 

Training 

France  has  played  a  paramount  role  in  the  training  of  the  Chad- 
ian  armed  forces  since  independence.  In  1980,  during  the  worst 
fighting  of  the  Chadian  Civil  War,  the  French  withdrew  their  train- 
ing mission  and  other  forms  of  military  cooperation.  French  involve- 
ment resumed  in  1983  when  Habre  appealed  for  help  against 
renewed  Libyan  intervention  in  northern  Chad  (see  Foreign  Mili- 
tary Cooperation,  this  ch.).  As  of  late  1987,  the  French  training 
mission  consisted  of  about  250  officers  and  enlisted  men.  Of  the 
10,000  soldiers  composing  FANT  at  its  inception  in  1983,  about 
8,000  had  been  rotated  through  French  training  by  1987.  The  prin- 
cipal training  sites  were  at  N'Djamena,  Koundoul,  and  Moussoro. 
At  an  instructional  center  at  Mongo,  thousands  of  former  codos 
(commandos)  had  been  * ' recycled"  by  French  trainers,  assisted  by 
a  large  cadre  of  Chadian  military.  A  small  number  of  codos  had 
been  integrated  into  FANT,  but  most  had  been  organized  into  work 
brigades  for  service  as  agricultural  or  road  laborers. 

The  French- supervised  training  was  complicated  by  the  extreme 
variation  in  educational  and  experience  levels  of  the  soldiers.  In 


183 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


some  cases,  combat  veterans  had  to  be  combined  with  new  recruits. 
Most  enlisted  men  were  illiterate  and  did  not  understand  French; 
when  an  interpreter  was  unavailable,  instruction  was  done  by 
demonstration  and  imitation.  The  wide  range  of  equipment  and 
weapons  in  the  growing  Chadian  inventory  presented  a  further 
challenge  for  the  French  instructional  teams. 

An  interservice  officers'  school  staffed  by  the  French  was  located 
at  N'Djamena.  In  1986  the  school  graduated  its  first  class;  an  earlier 
school  on  the  same  site  had  suspended  operations  in  1979.  The 
annual  intake  of  thirty-five  cadets  was  selected  from  those  civilian 
and  military  candidates  who  had  a  junior  high  school  level  educa- 
tion. The  two-year  program  combined  general  and  military  sub- 
jects; graduates  were  commissioned  as  infantry  platoon  leaders  with 
the  rank  of  second  lieutenant. 

A  number  of  officers  were  also  selected  for  advanced  training 
abroad,  principally  in  France  and  in  other  francophone  countries 
of  Africa.  According  to  Chadian  government  data,  in  1987  it  was 
expected  that  forty  officers  would  be  assigned  to  schools  in  France, 
thirty-one  to  Senegal,  and  about  forty  to  Congo,  Cote  dTvoire, 
and  Zaire  combined.  A  total  of  forty  officers  and  NCOs  had  received 
training  in  the  United  States  in  infantry  and  engineering  skills  and 
in  equipment  repair  and  maintenance.  In  addition,  United  States 
mobile  training  teams  visited  Chad  in  the  late  1980s  for  periods 
of  one  week  to  two  months  to  offer  instruction  in  the  use  of  new 
weapons. 

Equipment 

FANT's  unique  combat  requirements  have  dictated  equipment 
policies.  These  requirements  include  the  capability  to  shift  troops 
and  equipment  across  vast  distances  over  rough  desert  tracks,  along 
with  the  need  for  cross-country  movement  to  avoid  mines  and  to 
achieve  surprise.  In  1987  superior  maneuverability  and  swiftly 
applied  firepower  enabled  FANT  to  offset  Libya's  heavier  armor 
and  to  reduce  the  danger  of  counterattacks  from  the  air.  To  achieve 
mobility,  FANT  favored  light  armored  vehicles  and  four-wheel 
drive  pickup  trucks.  The  main  armored  vehicles  were  French- 
manufacture  Panhards  mounted  with  90mm  guns  and  supple- 
mented by  several  V-150  Cadillac  Gage  Commandos  manufactured 
in  the  United  States.  The  principal  antitank  weapons  were  106mm 
and  1 1 2mm  recoilless  rifles  and  the  French  Milan  missile  mounted 
on  trucks  especially  designed  for  desert  operations.  The  FANT 
arms  inventory  was  greatly  augmented  in  late  1986  and  early 
1987  by  military  aid  from  France  and  the  United  States.  The  aid 
included  additional  Panhard  armored  vehicles,  two-and-one-half 


184 


Chadian  troops  receiving  instruction  on  the  use  of  antitank  weapons 

Courtesy  Joseph  Krull 

ton  all-terrain  trucks,  fresh  stocks  of  French  and  American  anti- 
tank missiles,  and  American-built  jeeps.  Toyota  pickup  trucks  were 
purchased  separately  (see  table  8,  Appendix  A). 

Surface-to-air  missile  defense  consisted  primarily  of  the  United 
States- supplied  shoulder-launched  Redeye  and  Soviet  SA-7s  cap- 
tured from  Libya.  In  late  1987,  it  was  reported  that  the  United 
States  planned  to  supply  the  more  advanced  Stinger  as  well.  In 
the  late  1980s,  France  had  provided  equipment  and  training  for 
an  air  defense  platoon  of  Panhard  armored  vehicles  mounted  with 
radar  and  20mm  cannons. 

Small  arms  carried  by  individual  soldiers  had  been  obtained  from 
a  variety  of  sources.  The  weapons  included  Soviet-origin  Kalash- 
nikov  rifles,  the  American  M-14,  the  Belgian  FAL,  the  Swiss  SIG- 
Manurhin,  the  French  MAT-49,  and  some  Israeli  Uzis,  as  well 
as  many  rifles  of  World  War  II  vintage. 

The  series  of  victories  over  Libyan  forces  in  1987  resulted  in 
a  vast  accumulation  of  armor,  weapons,  and  aircraft,  much  of  it 
in  good  operating  condition.  The  captured  materiel  included  tracked 
and  wheeled  armored  vehicles,  rocket  launchers,  antiaircraft  radar 
systems,  light  aircraft,  helicopters,  and  pickup  trucks  (see  table  9, 
Appendix  A).  It  was  uncertain  to  what  extent  this  arsenal  could 
be  effectively  introduced  into  FANT  in  view  of  the  operating 
expense  and  maintenance  burden,  not  to  mention  the  need  for 


185 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

training  personnel  in  the  use  of  a  variety  of  complex  weapons  sys- 
tems. Some  Chadian  army  commanders  were  opposed  to  employ- 
ing heavy  armored  equipment  because  of  its  unsuitability  to  combat 
conditions  in  Chad  and  to  the  tactics  that  had  proved  so  successful 
for  FANT.  Others  were  said  to  be  intrigued  with  the  idea  of 
developing  an  armored  element  based  on  tanks. 

The  Air  Force 

The  small  Chadian  air  force,  which  in  1987  had  fewer  than  200 
men  assigned  to  it,  was  a  branch  of  the  army.  When  activated  in 
the  early  1960s,  its  inventory  consisted  of  one  C-47  transport  air- 
craft, together  with  five  observation  aircraft  and  helicopters,  all 
flown  by  French  pilots.  By  the  mid-1960s,  the  air  force  had  a  num- 
ber of  Chadian  pilots.  Within  a  decade,  an  additional  thirteen  C-47s 
were  acquired,  as  well  as  several  French-built  utility  aircraft  and 
helicopters.  The  capabilities  of  the  air  force  remained  limited  to 
transport,  communications,  and  liaison,  however.  The  air  force 
was  used  extensively  in  support  of  French  and  Chadian  units  oper- 
ating against  rebel  activity  in  the  north.  French  fighter  aircraft  were 
regularly  rotated  into  the  country  from  neighboring  bases  for  rapid 
deployment  exercises.  After  the  withdrawal  of  French  forces  from 
Chad  in  1975,  the  government  reached  an  agreement  with  France, 
which  provided  for  continued  French  logistical  support  and  train- 
ing of  pilots  and  mechanics. 

In  1976  the  air  force  began  to  acquire  a  modest  combat  capabil- 
ity in  the  form  of  seven  propeller-driven  Douglas  AD-4  Skyraid- 
ers  obtained  from  France.  Flown  primarily  by  French  and  other 
contract  pilots,  these  aircraft  were  used  for  several  years  in  sup- 
port of  antiguerrilla  campaigns  in  the  north.  As  of  1987,  the  sur- 
viving Skyraiders  were  no  longer  operable.  In  1985  Chad  acquired 
from  France  two  Swiss-built  Pilatus  PC -7  turboprop  trainers,  armed 
with  20mm  guns.  These  aircraft  were  suitable  for  counterinsur- 
gency  operations,  but  as  of  late  1987  they  had  been  used  only  for 
reconnaissance  or  liaison  duties. 

The  United  States  had  supplied  Chad  with  four  C-130  Hercules 
transport  and  cargo  aircraft  in  the  mid-1980s,  of  which  two 
remained  in  operation  in  1987.  Three  of  the  C-47s  and  one  DC-4 
were  also  still  in  use.  Seven  L-39  Albatros  jet  fighter- trainers  of 
Czechoslovak  manufacture  captured  from  Libya  were  not  in 
operating  condition;  in  any  event,  the  air  force  did  not  have  jet- 
qualified  pilots.  Several  of  the  Italian  SF-260  Marchetti  turboprop 
trainer  aircraft  captured  at  Ouadi  Doum  and  Fada  were  reportedly 
being  flown  on  reconnaissance  missions.  Armed  with  20mm 
cannons,  these  light  aircraft  brought  new  ground  support  and 


186 


National  Security 


counterinsurgency  potential  to  the  air  force.  None  of  the  helicop- 
ters previously  supplied  by  France  remained  in  the  inventory  as 
of  1987  (see  table  10,  Appendix  A). 

As  of  late  1987,  Lieutenant  Mornadji  Mbaissanabe  was  serv- 
ing as  acting  commander  of  the  air  force.  Pilots  and  crews  were 
of  Chadian,  French,  and  Zairian  nationalities.  France  had  under- 
taken responsibility  for  repair  and  maintenance  of  the  aircraft, 
although  the  actual  maintenance  teams  were  of  diverse  origins. 
Spare  parts  and  major  overhauls  for  the  C-130s  were  being  provided 
by  the  United  States;  France  provided  service  depot  visits,  crew 
training,  and  fuel. 

Defense  Expenditures 

An  accurate  picture  of  the  actual  economic  burden  of  defense 
costs  in  1987  could  not  be  obtained  because  of  the  limited  statisti- 
cal data  available  from  Chadian  government  sources.  Officially, 
defense  expenditures  came  to  about  CFA  F9.0  billion  in  1984,  CFA 
F9.4  billion  in  1985,  and  CFA  F8.4  billion  in  1986  (for  value  of 
the  CFA  F — see  Glossary).  These  expenditures  constituted  slightly 
in  excess  of  37  percent  of  the  total  budget  in  1984  and  1985  and 
slightly  less  than  35  percent  in  1986. 

It  was  believed,  however,  that  actual  defense  expenditures  were 
considerably  higher  than  those  given  in  official  figures.  Moreover, 
the  available  data  did  not  reflect  most  of  the  assistance  received 
from  France,  which  was  used  to  meet  personnel  and  operating 
needs.  The  expansion  of  FANT  and  the  heavy  financial  burden 
imposed  by  the  fighting  in  1987  undoubtedly  necessitated  a  fur- 
ther upsurge  in  defense  outlays.  In  view  of  the  small  proportion 
of  the  government  budget  that  could  be  met  through  taxation  and 
other  domestic  revenues,  continuation  of  a  high  level  of  French 
subsidy  was  indispensable  to  cover  such  ongoing  military  costs  as 
fuel,  supplies,  munitions,  and  wages  (see  Government  Finances, 
ch.  3). 

In  addition  to  official  budget  expenditures,  it  was  reported  that 
a  further  CFA  F2  billion  had  been  raised  annually  since  1984  on 
behalf  of  FANT  in  the  form  of  "voluntary"  donations  collected 
from  private  citizens  and  businesses  by  officials  of  the  only  recog- 
nized political  party,  the  National  Union  for  Independence  and 
Revolution  (Union  Nationale  pour  lTndependance  et  la  Revolu- 
tion— UNIR;  see  National  Union  for  Independence  and  Revolu- 
tion, ch.  4).  In  spite  of  the  fund-raising,  FANT  troops  received 
only  five  months'  pay  during  1986. 


187 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Civil  Conflict  and  Libyan  Intervention 

By  the  close  of  1987,  Chad  had  experienced  conditions  of  chronic 
warfare  for  twenty-two  years.  During  the  first  fourteen  years  of 
this  period  (1965-79),  Muslims  of  the  north  and  central  regions 
had  pursued  a  guerrilla  campaign  against  the  central  government, 
which  was  dominated  by  non-Muslim,  French-speaking  southern- 
ers. The  military  occupation  of  N'Djamena  by  northern  insurgents 
in  1979  was  an  important  turning  point.  Although  the  struggle  con- 
tinued with  increasing  severity,  its  shape  now  changed.  Differences 
between  north  and  south  persisted  but  had  become  secondary  to 
the  developing  conflict  between  the  two  northern  rivals — Habre 
and  Goukouni.  Habre' s  skills  as  a  military  commander  repeatedly 
enabled  him  to  prevail  against  domestic  military  opponents.  He 
could  not  withstand,  however,  the  combined  onslaught  of  the  forces 
of  Goukouni  and  his  Libyan  collaborators  when  Qadhafi  interceded 
in  strength  in  1980  and  again  in  1983. 

French  troops  returned  to  Chad  in  1983  to  block  the  southward 
advance  of  the  Libyans,  imposing  a  de  facto  cease-fire  and  parti- 
tion of  the  country.  The  south  and  central  regions  were  controlled 
by  Habre,  protected  by  a  French  line  of  defense,  and  the  north 
was  occupied  by  the  armies  of  Goukouni  shielded  by  Libyan  ground 
and  air  power. 

In  the  late  summer  of  1986,  the  balance  of  military  power  shifted 
when  most  of  the  troops  of  Goukouni 's  coalition  rebelled  against 
their  Libyan  allies.  Isolated  and  demoralized,  the  Libyans  were 
driven  from  their  Chadian  bases  in  a  series  of  stunning  blows  by 
Habre's  army  in  the  early  months  of  1987.  The  conflict  had  been 
transformed  from  a  civil  war,  in  which  Libya  was  backing  one  of 
the  claimants  to  authority  in  Chad,  into  a  national  crusade 
by  a  virtually  united  Chad  to  drive  Libyan  forces  from  its  terri- 
tory. 

The  FROLINAT  Rebellion,  1965-79 

The  prolonged  civil  warfare  in  Chad  had  its  origins  in  a  spon- 
taneous peasant  uprising  in  Guera  Prefecture  in  1965  against  new 
taxes  imposed  by  President  Tombalbaye.  The  rebellion  represented 
a  rekindling  of  traditional  animosities  between  the  Muslim  northern 
and  central  regions  and  the  predominantly  non-Muslim  people  of 
the  south  who  had  dominated  the  government  and  civil  service  since 
independence.  After  unrest  broke  out  in  other  areas,  the  various 
dissident  groups  were  merged  into  the  National  Liberation  Front 
of  Chad  (Front  de  Liberation  Nationale  du  Tchad— FROLINAT) 
at  a  meeting  in  Sudan  in  1966,  although  FROLINAT  leaders  at 


188 


National  Security 


first  had  little  contact  with  the  fighting  men  in  the  field.  From  its 
starting  point  in  Guera,  the  rebellion  spread  to  other  east-central 
prefectures.  The  struggle  broke  out  in  the  north  in  early  1968,  when 
the  always-restive  and  warlike  Toubou  nomads  destroyed  the  army 
garrison  at  Aozou. 

The  government  asked  the  French  to  intervene  when  rebel 
activity  threatened  some  of  the  administrative  posts  in  the  east  and 
north.  A  French  expeditionary  force  succeeded  in  recapturing  most 
of  the  FROLINAT-held  regions,  but,  after  the  withdrawal  of  the 
French  in  1971,  FROLINAT  was  again  able  to  operate  relatively 
freely.  Internal  divisions,  however,  prevented  FROLINAT  from 
capitalizing  immediately  on  the  weaknesses  of  the  Tombalbaye 
regime.  Early  on,  the  movement's  ideologue,  Abba  Siddick,  lost 
control  to  more  militant  factions.  Goukouni  broke  with  the  First 
Liberation  Army,  which  Siddick  commanded,  and  formed  the 
Second  Liberation  Army,  later  known  as  FAN.  As  of  1973,  northern 
Borkou  and  Tibesti  subprefectures  were  occupied  by  the  Second 
Liberation  Army,  leaving  the  First  Liberation  Army  in  control  in 
Ennedi  Subprefecture  (see  Appendix  B). 

In  the  meantime,  Goukouni  had  been  joined  by  the  young  and 
dynamic  Habre,  who  had  been  named  commander  in  chief  of  the 
Command  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Conseil  de 
Commandement  des  Forces  Armees  du  Nord — CCFAN).  Habre, 
however,  was  ousted  in  1976,  when  he  objected  to  Goukouni' s  will- 
ingness to  cooperate  with  Libya  to  further  the  struggle  against  the 
central  government.  The  two  leaders  also  differed  over  Habre 's 
kidnapping  of  French  citizens  and  holding  them  for  ransom  as  a 
means  of  raising  funds. 

Most  of  FROLINAT' s  First  Liberation  Army  was  reunified 
under  Goukouni 's  overall  command  as  FAP  during  1977.  (Habre 
reclaimed  the  name  FAN  for  his  followers.)  Equipped  with  freshly 
supplied  Libyan  weapons,  FAP  carried  on  a  broad  offensive  against 
government  troops  until  a  cease-fire  was  laboriously  negotiated  in 
March  1978.  The  truce  was  soon  broken  by  Goukouni,  whose 
troops  soundly  defeated  the  government  army  and  threatened 
N'Djamena.  French  forces  were  again  airlifted  into  the  country 
and  were  decisive  in  routing  FAP  in  a  series  of  sharp  engagements 
during  the  spring  of  1978.  During  the  course  of  the  fighting,  much 
of  the  new  equipment  FAP  had  received  from  Libya  was 
abandoned. 

In  spite  of  the  French  rescue  effort,  the  Malloum  government 
was  weakened  both  politically  and  militarily  by  the  defeats  admin- 
istered to  FAT,  the  national  army.  To  shore  up  his  position,  Mal- 
loum offered  Habre  the  post  of  prime  minister  in  a  government 


189 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


of  national  unity  under  the  former's  presidency.  The  new  govern- 
ment, however,  failed  to  function  because  it  was  paralyzed  by  fac- 
tional differences.  Clashes  between  FAT  and  Habre's  FAN  were 
frequent  in  the  capital.  General  fighting  broke  out  between  the  two 
forces  in  February  1979.  The  poorly  led,  less  aggressive  FAT  troops 
were  soon  driven  out  of  N'Djamena  by  FAN.  When  the  fighting 
ended,  the  looting  and  summary  executions  that  followed  precipi- 
tated a  mass  exodus  of  southern  civilians.  Mutual  reprisals  followed. 
Massacres  of  Muslims  in  southern  towns  were  countered  by  execu- 
tions of  southern  officials  in  eastern  areas  controlled  by  FAN. 

French  troops  present  in  the  N'Djamena  area  did  not  intervene; 
French  neutrality  in  effect  favored  Habre,  although  the  French 
attitude  toward  him  was  divided.  Goukouni's  FAP,  meanwhile, 
had  descended  from  the  north  to  fight  alongside  FAN.  By  March 
1979,  the  struggle  had  resulted  in  a  de  facto  partition  of  Chad:  the 
Muslim  armies  of  FROLINAT  controlled  the  capital,  together  with 
the  northern  and  central  prefectures,  and  Malloum  controlled  the 
five  southernmost  prefectures. 

First  Libyan  Intervention,  1980-81 

Efforts  by  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU)  through 
most  of  1979  brought  temporary  reconciliation  among  the  warring 
factions.  Nigeria  acted  as  host  to  four  conferences — the  first  two 
in  Kano  and  the  second  two  in  Lagos — that  gave  rise  to  the  Tran- 
sitional Government  of  National  Unity  (Gouvernement  d' Union 
Nationale  de  Transition — GUNT).  Goukouni  served  as  president, 
Wadel  Abdelkader  Kamougue  of  FAT  as  vice  president,  and  Habre 
as  minister  of  defense  in  the  government.  An  African  peacekeep- 
ing force  composed  of  units  from  Benin,  Congo,  and  Guinea  was 
also  scheduled  to  be  sent  to  Chad.  The  units  from  Benin  and  Guinea 
failed  to  arrive,  however,  and  the  600  Congolese  who  appeared 
in  January  1980  were  withdrawn  three  months  later  without 
becoming  involved  in  any  military  action. 

The  formation  of  GUNT  did  not  end  conflict  among  the  fac- 
tional armies.  Both  Goukouni's  FAP  and  Habre's  FAN  occupied 
parts  of  N'Djamena  during  the  negotiations  of  1979  and  after  the 
coalition  government  was  installed,  maintaining  separate  spheres 
of  influence  radiating  from  their  respective  headquarters.  When 
skirmishes  broke  out  in  the  capital  in  March  1980,  fighting  between 
FAP  and  FAN  gradually  escalated.  In  spite  of  brief  cease-fires  and 
efforts  at  mediation,  the  struggle  persisted  for  nearly  nine  months 
without  much  change  in  the  positions  of  the  combatants.  Artillery 
exchanges  reduced  much  of  the  capital  to  rubble.  Civilian  casual- 
ties were  high,  even  though  most  of  the  remaining  population  had 


190 


National  Security 


taken  refuge  in  nearby  towns  in  Cameroon  and  Nigeria.  Under 
Kamougue  FAT  cooperated  with  Goukouni's  GUNT  coalition,  but 
its  attacks  from  the  east  on  FAN  failed.  Despite  FAT's  attacks, 
FAN  managed  to  preserve  its  supply  lines  from  Sudan  by  main- 
taining control  over  the  N'Djamena-Abeche  road. 

Although  French  troops  were  still  present,  they  did  not  inter- 
vene. They  deferred  willingly  to  the  efforts  of  the  African  nations 
to  restore  peace  and  at  Goukouni's  request  departed  in  May  1980. 
FAN's  superior  firepower  and  discipline,  however,  was  gradually 
imperiling  the  GUNT  coalition  and  led  Goukouni  to  turn  to  Libya 
for  help.  GUNT  and  Libya  signed  a  treaty  of  friendship  and 
cooperation  on  June  15,  1980. 

Under  the  treaty,  the  Chadian  government  had  the  right  to  call 
upon  Libya  should  Chad's  independence,  territorial  integrity,  or 
internal  security  be  threatened.  Armed  with  this  legal  pretext,  Libya 
sharply  increased  its  involvement  in  the  country.  After  Habre 
resumed  his  offensive  against  GUNT  in  October  1980,  Goukouni 
shifted  the  FAP's  operations  to  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture, 
where,  stiffened  by  Libya's  backing,  his  force  ousted  FAN  from 
the  main  settlements.  In  the  meantime,  a  substantial  Libyan  force 
of  7,000  to  9,000  troops  accompanied  by  tanks  and  self-propelled 
artillery  was  transported  southward  from  assembly  points  in 
southern  Libya.  With  military  advisers  from  the  German  Demo- 
cratic Republic  (East  Germany)  and  the  Soviet  Union  coordinating 
its  movements,  FAP  seized  the  town  of  Ati  on  the  N'Djamena- 
Abeche  road,  cutting  Habre 's  supply  line  to  the  east.  The  Libyan 
army,  which  included  4,500  to  5,000  members  of  the  Islamic 
Legion,  was  then  moved  into  position  for  a  strike  at  N'Djamena. 
After  a  week  of  intensive  shelling,  FAN  was  forced  to  evacuate  the 
capital  on  December  15,  1980. 

With  the  Libyans  present  in  force,  a  period  of  relative  calm 
ensued,  although  the  various  regions  of  the  country  remained 
divided  under  the  control  of  rival  military  factions.  The  Libyan 
army  occupied  N'Djamena  and  was  posted  at  bases  in  northern 
Chad  alongside  Goukouni's  FAP;  the  latter's  strength  was  estimated 
at  over  5,000.  Kamougue 's  FAT,  comprising  some  3,000  to  5,000 
troops,  occupied  the  south.  The  pro- Libyan  Democratic  Revolu- 
tionary Council  (Conseil  Democratique  Revolutionnaire — CDR), 
led  by  Acyl  Ahmat,  had  about  3,000  men  in  Arab  areas  of  the  east. 
Habre 's  defeated  FAN,  numbering  no  more  than  4,000  troops, 
had  retreated  to  its  original  stronghold  in  Biltine  Prefecture  and 
along  the  Sudanese  border. 

On  January  6,  1981,  Goukouni  signed  an  accord  with  Qadhafi 
to  merge  Chad  and  Libya,  evoking  a  highly  negative  reaction 


191 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


among  the  Chadian  factions  and  other  African  states.  Under  sus- 
tained pressure  from  African  nations  and  from  France  to  sever  his 
dependence  on  Libya,  Goukouni  in  effect  later  renounced  the  plan 
of  unification  and  called  for  the  withdrawal  of  the  Libyan  forces. 
Although  Qadhafi's  army  had  become  highly  unpopular  and 
hundreds  of  his  soldiers  had  become  casualties  of  guerrilla  activity, 
the  haste  with  which  he  pulled  back  the  Libyan  units  within  a  two- 
week  period  in  November  1981  came  as  a  surprise. 

The  Libyans  were  replaced  by  an  OAU  peacekeeping  force,  the 
Inter- African  Force  (IAF),  consisting  of  2,000  Nigerians,  2,000 
Zairians,  and  800  Senegalese.  Originally,  seven  African  govern- 
ments had  promised  contributions,  but  disputes  over  financing 
limited  the  OAU  operation.  Because  of  the  vague  mandate  of  the 
peacekeeping  force  and  the  determination  of  all  three  countries  to 
avoid  combat,  the  IAF  made  no  effort  to  block  Habre's  military 
comeback  after  the  departure  of  the  Libyans. 

Habre's  Return  to  Power  and  Second  Libyan  Intervention, 
1982-84 

Goukouni 's  army,  weakened  by  defections  and  dissension  and 
no  longer  benefiting  from  Libya's  help,  could  not  prevent  Habre's 
advance.  By  the  end  of  1981,  Habre  had  retaken  Abeche,  Fay  a 
Largeau,  and  other  key  points  (see  fig.  10).  Following  sharp  fight- 
ing in  the  outskirts  of  N'Djamena,  Habre  entered  the  capital  on 
June  7,  1982. 

After  initially  fleeing  the  country,  Goukouni  returned  to  gather 
his  forces  around  Bardai  in  the  far  north.  Numbering  some  3,000 
to  4,000,  his  troops  included  the  remnants  of  the  CDR,  FAP,  FAT, 
the  First  Liberation  Army,  the  Volcan  Forces,  and  the  Western 
Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Occidentales — FAO)  (see  Appen- 
dix B).  Regrouped  as  the  National  Liberation  Army  (Armee 
Nationale  de  Liberation — ANL),  they  were  trained  and  equipped 
by  the  Libyans.  Negue  Djogo,  a  French-trained  officer  from  the 
south,  was  placed  in  command. 

When  formed  in  January  1983,  Habre's  new  FANT  had  an  esti- 
mated strength  of  10,000;  the  force  consisted  of  a  core  of  6,000 
members  from  FAN  and  4,000  troops  absorbed  from  other  fac- 
tions. Arrayed  against  it  were  Goukouni' s  coalition  forces  buttressed 
by  Libyan  units  and  the  Islamic  Legion,  which  had  crossed  back 
into  northern  Chad.  Together,  these  forces  amounted  to  about 
12,000  troops.  Returning  to  the  offensive,  Goukouni 's  army  was 
able  to  take  Faya  Largeau  in  June  1983,  following  a  devastating 
Libyan  air  bombardment.  Continuing  southward,  Goukouni 's 
army  captured  Kalait  and  Oum  Chalouba;  however,  by  the  time 


192 


National  Security 


it  reached  Abeche  on  July  8,  1983,  severing  Habre's  supply  line 
to  Sudan,  it  had  become  overextended. 

As  the  rebels  advanced,  aided  by  the  poorly  concealed  partici- 
pation of  Libya,  Habre  made  insistent  appeals  for  international 
help.  Rejecting  direct  intervention,  France  was  prepared  to  go  no 
further  than  airlifting  arms  and  fuel.  Zaire  flew  in  a  detachment 
of  paratroopers,  eventually  furnishing  about  2,000  men.  Deployed 
chiefly  around  N'Djamena,  they  freed  Chadian  troops  to  fight  the 
rebels.  The  United  States  announced  that  US$25  million  in  criti- 
cally needed  equipment  would  be  provided  (see  United  States  Mili- 
tary Aid,  this  ch.).  In  a  desperate  effort  to  turn  the  tide,  Habre 
took  personal  command  of  F ANT,  driving  Goukouni's  army  out 
of  Abeche  four  days  after  the  city's  fall,  recapturing  Faya  Largeau 
on  July  30,  1983,  and  sweeping  on  to  retake  other  points  in  the 
north. 

Faced  with  the  collapse  of  the  offensive  spearheaded  by  Gou- 
kouni's army,  Qadhafi  increased  his  commitment  of  forces  in  Chad. 
Preceded  by  intensive  strikes  by  ground  attack  fighters  and  bomb- 
ers, a  large  Libyan  armored  force  drove  FANT  out  of  Faya  Largeau 
on  August  10.  The  Libyan  contingent  of  4,000  to  5,000  troops  was 
heavily  equipped  and  included  tanks  and  armored  personnel  car- 
riers, supported  by  long-range  self-propelled  artillery  and  multi- 
ple rocket  launchers. 

In  response  to  the  introduction  of  the  Libyan  mechanized  bat- 
talions, which  led  to  the  fall  of  Faya  Largeau,  the  French  reluc- 
tantly agreed  to  a  renewal  of  direct  involvement.  They  contributed 
a  round-the-clock  airlift  of  supplies  and  180  French  military 
advisers.  A  much  larger  troop  commitment  soon  followed.  The 
French  force  eventually  totaled  3,500  air  force,  Foreign  Legion, 
and  airborne  personnel  in  what  was  designated  as  Operation  Manta 
(Stingray).  The  first  contingents  were  deployed  north  of  N'Djamena 
at  points  on  the  two  possible  routes  of  advance  on  the  capital.  Fighter 
aircraft  and  antitank  helicopters  were  dispatched  to  Chad  to  dis- 
courage an  attack  on  N'Djamena.  As  the  French  buildup  proceeded, 
forward  positions  were  established  roughly  along  the  parallel  of  16° 
north  latitude,  which  the  French  tried  to  maintain  as  the  line 
separating  the  combatants. 

In  1983  Goukouni's  forces  and  their  Libyan  allies  continued  to 
occupy  virtually  all  of  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture.  Mean- 
while, Libya  was  rapidly  building  new  airstrips  in  southern  Libya 
and  in  the  Aozou  Strip  to  provide  support  to  Libyan  forces  and 
its  Chadian  allies.  Protracted  bilateral  and  multilateral  negotiations 
eventually  were  successful  in  producing  agreement  on  a  simul- 
taneous withdrawal  of  French  and  Libyan  forces.  Within  the 


193 


Figure  10.  Areas  of  Fighting,  1980S 7 


stipulated  period  of  two  months,  on  November  10,  1984,  the  French 
withdrawal  was  completed.  But  evidence  provided  by  United  States 
satellite  photographs  made  it  apparent  that  Qadhafi  had  violated 
his  commitment  by  not  removing  his  troops  from  Borkou-Ennedi- 
Tibesti  Prefecture.  Although  French  president  Francois  Mitterrand 
confronted  Qadhafi  over  his  actions  at  a  hastily  arranged  confer- 
ence, he  failed  to  obtain  the  Libyan  leader's  compliance. 

Repelling  Libya's  Occupying  Force,  1985-87 

Although  French  negotiating  efforts  had  failed  to  dislodge  the 
Libyans  from  their  foothold  in  northern  Chad,  Habre  continued 
to  consolidate  his  military  situation  during  1985  and  1986.  At  the 
same  time,  Goukouni's  forces  were  becoming  debilitated  because 
of  defections  and  internal  dissension.  Rebellion  in  the  south  by 


194 


National  Security 


codos  had  virtually  ceased  by  the  summer  of  1986,  as  increasing 
numbers  of  codos  yielded  to  the  Habre  government.  According  to 
Colonel  Alphonse  Kotiga,  the  former  codo  leader  who  had  become 
reconciled  with  Habre  in  1986,  as  many  as  15,000  had  accepted 
offers  of  compensation  and  training  to  become  reintegrated  into 
civil  or  military  life.  Only  about  10  percent  could  be  absorbed  as 
recruits  by  FANT,  but  the  end  of  the  revolt  permitted  the  redeploy- 
ment of  F ANT  units  from  the  south  to  face  Goukouni's  Libyan- 
backed  forces  in  the  north. 

Goukouni's  GUNT,  reequipped  by  Libya  and  now  numbering 
4,000  to  5,000  men,  was  concentrated  in  the  Tibesti  region  and 
at  Fada  and  Faya  Largeau.  In  addition  to  these  forces,  about  5,000 
Libyan  troops  remained  in  northern  Chad.  At  Ouadi  Doum,  near 
Faya  Largeau,  the  Libyans  had  constructed  a  new  air  base  to  han- 
dle bombers  and  air  resupply  operations.  A  GUNT  offensive  in 
February  and  March  1986  ended  the  military  stalemate  that  had 
prevailed  through  most  of  1985.  The  GUNT  drive,  heavily  sup- 
ported by  Libya,  triggered  a  return  of  French  forces,  called  Opera- 
tion Epervier  (Sparrowhawk).  Initially  involving  about  1 ,400  men, 
by  early  1987  when  Libya  appeared  to  be  massing  for  a  new  thrust, 
the  French  deployment  had  mounted  to  2,500  and  included,  in  addi- 
tion, a  detachment  of  Jaguar  and  Mirage  aircraft. 

Differences  within  GUNT  reached  a  critical  stage  in  August  1986. 
Acheikh  ibn  Oumar,  who  had  succeeded  the  deceased  Acyl  Ahmat 
as  leader  of  the  pro-Libyan  CDR,  had  become  Goukouni's  adver- 
sary. The  followers  of  Goukouni,  essentially  the  former  FAP,  were 
increasingly  resentful  of  Libya's  domination  in  the  north  and  were 
reluctant  to  renew  their  offensive  against  FANT.  When  fighting 
broke  out  between  FAP  units  and  the  CDR  at  Fada,  Libya  inter- 
vened with  armor  and  air  power.  As  a  result,  Goukouni's  men, 
constituting  about  two-thirds  of  the  GUNT  army,  were  forced  to 
take  refuge  in  the  surrounding  mountains. 

A  cease-fire  was  arranged  in  October  1 986  between  the  govern- 
ment's  FANT  and  the  mutinous  FAP  units,  although  Goukouni 
himself  was  reportedly  under  house  arrest  at  the  Libyan  capital 
of  Tripoli.  Provided  by  FANT  with  rations  and  military  supplies, 
FAP  troops  set  out  to  harass  Libyan  and  CDR  concentrations.  But, 
under  pressure  from  Libyan  air  strikes,  most  of  FAP  gradually  made 
its  way  to  traditional  strongholds  in  the  mountainous  Tibesti  region 
or  slipped  southward  to  be  absorbed  into  FANT. 

In  mid-December  1986,  three  Libyan  armored  columns  attacked 
the  main  settlements  occupied  by  FAP  in  the  Tibesti  region.  They 
forced  the  Chadians  to  retreat  from  the  towns  of  Zouar  and  Wour 
into  the  nearby  mountains;  at  Bardai,  however,  the  tide  turned, 


195 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


and  the  Chadians  repelled  the  Libyans,  who  suffered  heavy  losses. 
In  the  meantime,  FANT  troops  had  assembled  at  Kalait  to  pre- 
pare an  assault  on  Fada,  which  was  occupied  by  1,200  Libyan  and 
400  CDR  soldiers.  FANT  units  had  been  equipped  by  France  and 
the  United  States  with  light  armored  vehicles,  all-terrain  pickup 
trucks,  and  antitank  and  antiaircraft  missile  launchers. 

The  tactics  employed  by  FANT  at  Fada  became  a  model  for  sub- 
sequent attacks  on  Libyan  garrisons.  In  a  series  of  swifdy  executed 
pincer  movements,  successive  barriers  of  Libyan  tanks  and  armored 
vehicles  defending  the  desert  track  south  of  Fada  were  breached 
in  the  early  hours  of  January  2,  1987.  The  fast-moving  FANT 
columns  would  leave  the  road  to  outflank  the  entrenched  Libyan 
armor,  which  was  protected  by  mine  fields,  then  open  fire  with 
antitank  missiles  and  recoilless  rifles,  at  times  from  ranges  as  close 
as  fifty  meters.  In  some  cases,  the  destruction  of  one  Libyan  tank 
induced  the  others  to  flee.  The  final  two  Libyan  tank  barriers, 
twenty  and  ten  kilometers  south  of  Fada,  were  hurriedly  withdrawn 
and  regrouped  around  the  headquarters  and  airstrip  northwest  of 
the  oasis;  by  noon,  however,  both  strongpoints  had  fallen.  Most 
of  the  Libyan  command  escaped  by  air,  but  the  Libyan  death  toll 
was  more  than  700,  and  150  prisoners  were  taken.  A  considerable 
arsenal  of  weapons,  armor,  and  munitions,  as  well  as  armed  trainer 
aircraft,  was  captured  (see  table  10,  Appendix  A). 

Striving  to  reestablish  his  position  and  salvage  the  reputation 
of  his  army,  Qadhafi  built  up  his  troop  strength  in  the  region  from 
6,000  at  the  end  of  1986  to  1 1 ,000  by  March  1987.  Offensive  opera- 
tions were  resumed  in  late  February  1987  against  several  oases. 
Two  Libyan  columns  attempted  to  drive  south  from  Ouadi  Doum 
toward  Fada,  but  each  was  routed  by  elements  of  FANT  near  Bir 
Korba  on  March  19  and  20.  Pursuing  the  retreating  Libyans, 
FANT  units  caught  the  defenders  of  Ouadi  Doum  unprepared  and 
succeeded  in  capturing  the  base  after  a  twenty-five-hour  battle  on 
March  22-23.  Libyan  casualties  were  especially  heavy;  reportedly, 
over  1,200  were  killed  and  about  450  taken  prisoner.  At  both  Bir 
Korba  and  Ouadi  Doum,  FANT  units  captured  large  amounts  of 
equipment  intact,  including  50  tanks,  more  than  100  other  armored 
vehicles,  and  additional  aircraft. 

The  fall  of  Ouadi  Doum  was  a  severe  setback  for  Libya.  Deserted 
by  most  of  their  Chadian  allies,  Libyan  forces  found  themselves 
isolated  in  alien  territory,  and  the  loss  of  the  main  Libyan  air  base 
in  Chad  prevented  Libya  from  providing  close  air  cover  to  its  troops. 
In  general,  the  offensive  against  FANT  had  exposed  the  vulner- 
ability of  Libya's  heavy  armor  to  a  more  mobile  enemy.  Libya's 
combat  performance  reflected  growing  discouragement  and  a 


196 


National  Security 


sapping  of  the  will  to  fight.  On  Qadhafi's  orders,  a  general  with- 
drawal was  undertaken  from  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture, 
beginning  with  Faya  Largeau,  which  had  served  as  the  main  Libyan 
base  during  the  preceding  four  years.  Its  garrison  of  3,000  troops, 
together  with  the  survivors  of  Bir  Korba  and  Ouadi  Doum,  retired 
toward  the  Libyan  base  at  Maatan  as  Sarra,  north  of  the  Chadian 
border.  Subsequently,  Libya  mounted  bombing  raids  from  bases 
in  its  southern  region  in  an  effort  to  keep  FANT  from  using  the 
abandoned  equipment. 

In  August  1987,  the  Chadians  carried  their  offensive  into  the 
disputed  Aozou  Strip,  occupying  the  town  of  Aozou  following 
another  battle  in  which  the  Libyans  suffered  severe  losses  in  troops 
and  abandoned  equipment.  In  retaliation  Libya  intensified  its  air 
bombardments  against  towns  in  the  north,  usually  from  altitudes 
beyond  the  range  of  FANT's  shoulder-fired  missiles.  Appeals  by 
Habre  for  French  air  missions  to  defend  the  area  against  the  bomb- 
ing were  rejected.  President  Mitterrand  distanced  himself  from  the 
advance  into  the  Aozou  Strip,  calling  for  international  mediation 
to  settle  competing  claims  to  the  territory. 

After  a  succession  of  counterattacks,  toward  the  end  of  August 
the  Libyans  finally  drove  the  400  Chadian  troops  out  of  the  town 
of  Aozou.  This  victory — the  first  by  Libyan  ground  forces  since 
the  Chadian  offensive  had  gotten  under  way  eight  months  earlier — 
was  apparently  achieved  through  close-range  air  strikes,  which  were 
followed  by  ground  troops  advancing  cross-country  in  jeeps,  Toyota 
all-terrain  trucks,  and  light  armored  vehicles.  For  the  Libyans,  who 
had  previously  relied  on  ponderous  tracked  armor,  the  assault 
represented  a  conversion  to  the  desert  warfare  tactics  developed 
by  FANT. 

Habre  quickly  reacted  to  this  setback  and  to  the  continued  bomb- 
ing of  FANT  concentrations  in  northern  Chad.  On  September  5, 
1987,  he  mounted  a  surprise  raid  against  the  key  Libyan  air  base 
at  Maatan  as  Sarra.  Reportedly,  1,000  Libyans  were  killed,  300 
were  captured,  and  hundreds  of  others  were  forced  to  flee  into  the 
surrounding  desert.  Chad  claimed  that  its  troops  destroyed  about 
thirty-two  aircraft— including  MiG-21  and  MiG-23  fighters,  Su-22 
fighter-bombers,  and  Mi- 2 4  helicopters — before  the  FANT  column 
withdrew  to  Chadian  soil. 

The  fighting  was  at  least  temporarily  suspended  on  September 
1 1 ,  1987,  when  both  leaders  accepted  a  cease-fire  proposed  by  the 
OAU.  Chadian  efforts  to  regain  the  Aozou  Strip  were  halted,  and 
Libyan  bombings  were  terminated.  As  of  early  1988,  the  OAU 
Ad  Hoc  Committee  on  the  Border  Dispute  was  continuing  to  seek 


197 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict,  but  prospects  for  success  were 
not  considered  to  be  bright. 

Foreign  Military  Cooperation 

Since  Chad's  independence,  France  has  exercised  a  preeminent 
role  in  the  military  sphere,  sustaining  both  ground  and  air  forces 
by  providing  the  bulk  of  the  equipment  and  training  needs  of  the 
country.  French  military  contingents  have  either  been  present  in 
Chad  or  poised  in  nearby  countries  for  rapid  deployment  during 
periods  of  instability.  Aside  from  Libya,  which  had  provided  mas- 
sive help  to  the  forces  arrayed  against  Habre,  the  United  States 
was  the  only  other  country  that  had  supplied  military  equipment. 
The  rate  of  arms  transfers  to  FANT  from  both  France  and  the 
United  States  mounted  sharply  in  1986  and  1987  as  the  conflict 
with  Libya  intensified.  During  this  phase,  the  value  of  the  equip- 
ment supplied  by  the  two  countries  was  roughly  the  same,  although 
the  ongoing  burden  on  France — including  support  for  the  defense 
budget,  training,  construction,  and  French  troop  operations — was 
much  higher. 

The  French  Military  Role  in  Chad 

Upon  achieving  independence  in  1960,  Chad  joined  former  AEF 
members  Central  African  Republic,  Gabon,  and  Congo  in  a  multi- 
lateral military  assistance  agreement  with  France.  The  agreement 
provided  France  with  use  of  a  major  military  base  outside 
N'Djamena  (then  called  Fort-Lamy),  as  well  as  with  automatic  tran- 
sit and  overflight  rights.  In  return,  France  not  only  was  to  provide 
defense  against  external  threats  but  also  was  to  assist  in  maintain- 
ing internal  security  in  the  four  countries.  Under  this  clause,  Chad 
or  any  other  signatory  could  automatically  request  direct  French 
intervention  to  ensure  the  security  of  its  government  in  the  face 
of  insurgency  or  coup  attempts.  The  French  government,  however, 
had  the  right  to  honor  or  refuse  requests  as  it  saw  fit.  Chad  also 
signed  a  bilateral  military  technical  assistance  agreement  under 
which  France  continued  to  provide  equipment,  training,  and  French 
advisers  in  Chadian  uniforms.  Fort-Lamy  continued  to  serve  as 
a  combined  army  and  air  base  and  was  one  of  the  main  French 
installations  in  Africa  from  which  troops  and  aircraft  could  be 
rapidly  deployed  to  any  of  the  former  French  African  colonies. 

Finding  it  increasingly  difficult  to  stem  the  rebellion  that  had 
broken  out  in  1965,  President  Tombalbaye  sought  French  inter- 
vention to  help  restore  order.  From  April  1969  until  September 
1972,  the  Foreign  Legion  and  other  French  units  supplied  2,500 
soldiers,  who  joined  in  operations  against  the  rebels.  A  mixed 


198 


National  Security 


regiment  was  permanently  stationed  near  Fort-Lamy.  A  limited 
number  of  ground  attack  aircraft,  transports,  and  helicopters  sup- 
ported the  Franco-Chadian  forces  facing  the  insurgents.  As  regu- 
lar Chadian  units  were  formed  and  exposed  to  French  training, 
the  French  forces  were  gradually  reduced. 

After  Tombalbaye  was  overthrown  in  1975,  France's  disagree- 
ments with  the  new  Malloum  government  resulted  in  withdrawal 
of  the  remaining  French  combat  forces,  although  more  than  300 
advisers  to  the  ground  and  air  forces  remained.  In  1976  another 
series  of  military  accords  was  negotiated  covering  future  French 
military  aid  and  the  transfer  of  equipment  left  behind  by  the  French. 
In  1978  Malloum  invoked  the  guarantee  clause  of  these  agreements 
to  ask  for  renewed  French  help  in  stabilizing  his  regime  against 
the  revitalized  FROLINAT.  French  paratroopers  and  Foreign 
Legion  units  returned  to  Chad  in  response  to  Malloum' s  request 
but  were  evacuated  two  years  later  at  Goukouni's  insistence. 

In  spite  of  the  decisive  commitment  of  Libyan  forces  in  the 
GUNT  offensive  of  mid- 1983,  the  French  were  at  first  reluctant 
to  respond  to  Habre's  urgent  request  for  direct  intervention.  After 
further  appeals  from  other  francophone  heads  of  state  in  Africa  and 
from  the  United  States,  however,  the  French  launched  Operation 
Manta,  a  task  force  of  ground  troops  accompanied  by  fighter  air- 
craft and  air  defense  systems.  Except  for  several  retaliations  against 
Libyan  incursions  to  the  south,  France  avoided  direct  contact  with 
GUNT  insurgents  and  their  Libyan  allies.  The  French  presence, 
however,  protected  Habre  by  deterring  a  GUNT-Libyan  offen- 
sive south  of  16°  north  latitude,  where  the  French  forward  posi- 
tions were  established. 

Libya's  failure  to  honor  its  commitment  to  remove  its  troops, 
followed  by  a  Libyan  air  attack  across  16°  north  latitude  in  February 
1986,  triggered  a  new  French  deployment,  Operation  Epervier. 
The  operation  initially  consisted  of  about  1,400  troops,  backed  by 
air  units;  continued  replenishment  brought  the  total  to  about  2,500 
in  early  1987.  As  of  late  1987,  most  of  the  remaining  French  troops 
were  grouped  around  the  capital  and  at  Abeche.  The  only  French 
forces  in  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture  were  a  group  of  150 
engineers  engaged  in  land  mine  disposal  at  Faya  Largeau.  The 
French  aircraft  were  based  at  N'Djamena  and  protected  by  bat- 
teries of  Crotale  and  Hawk  surface-to-air  missiles;  radar  units  were 
installed  at  Abeche  and  Moussoro  to  provide  early  warning. 

Although  official  data  were  not  available,  according  to  one  esti- 
mate the  value  of  French  military  assistance  to  FAN  and  FANT 
between  1983  and  1987  was  about  US$175  million.  During  the 
first  six  months  of  1987  alone,  all  forms  of  aid,  including  the  expense 


199 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


of  Operation  Epervier,  amounted  to  nearly  US$100  million.  This 
figure  included  a  US$12  million  construction  program  that  would 
enable  the  N'Djamena  air  base  to  handle  Boeing  747  cargo  air- 
craft and  a  project  to  harden  the  runway  at  Abeche  to  permit  its 
use  by  fighter  aircraft. 

United  States  Military  Aid 

Until  the  early  1980s,  United  States  aid  to  Chad  had  been 
restricted  to  shipments  of  food  and  development  assistance.  The 
United  States  had  declined  to  become  involved  on  behalf  of  any 
of  the  Chadian  factions  and  had  no  desire  to  supplant  France,  which 
had  shouldered  the  principal  Western  responsibility  in  Chad. 

Military  equipment  valued  at  US$10  million  reportedly  was  deliv- 
ered in  1981  and  1982,  mainly  from  Sudanese  and  Egyptian  stocks 
(later  replenished)  to  enable  Habre  to  regroup  and  rearm  after  his 
forces  had  been  driven  into  eastern  Chad  by  the  combined  forces 
of  GUNT  and  Libya.  The  United  States  also  offered  US$12  mil- 
lion to  the  IAF  in  1980,  but  only  75  percent  of  that  amount  was 
spent.  The  United  States  viewed  Libyan  expansionism  as  the  cause 
of  the  Chadian  crisis  of  1983  and  sought  to  check  Libyan  involve- 
ment. Accordingly,  in  April  1983  Washington  negotiated  an  agree- 
ment with  N'Djamena  to  provide  training  in  the  United  States  for 
Chadian  personnel  in  a  number  of  military  specialties.  In  July  of 
the  same  year,  the  Mutual  Defense  Assistance  Agreement  was 
signed,  which  provided  for  sending  military  equipment  to  Chad. 

In  August  1983,  Washington  authorized  US$25  million  emer- 
gency aid  package  to  help  the  Habre  government,  including  the 
delivery  of  Redeye  antiaircraft  missiles  and  missile  launchers.  Three 
United  States  specialists  visited  Chad  briefly  to  train  Chadians  in 
the  use  of  the  equipment.  As  a  further  symbol  of  American  con- 
cern, two  Airborne  Warning  and  Control  System  (AWACS)  air- 
craft, with  support  crews  and  fighter  escorts,  were  sent  to  Sudan 
for  possible  deployment  in  conjunction  with  French  combat  air- 
craft. The  AWACS  aircraft,  however,  were  not  deployed  and  were 
withdrawn  after  about  two  weeks. 

In  United  States  fiscal  years  (FY)  1984  through  1987,  United 
States  military  aid  to  Chad  totaled  about  US$70  million;  an  addi- 
tional US$9  million  was  proposed  for  FY  1988.  Expenditures  for 
training  were  about  US$200,000  annually.  Most  of  the  assistance 
consisted  of  transport  aircraft  and  aircraft  maintenance,  small  arms, 
ammunition,  trucks,  jeeps,  antiaircraft  and  antitank  weapons,  uni- 
forms, first  aid  kits,  and  food  rations.  The  United  States  also  cooper- 
ated with  France  in  the  air  delivery  of  items  deemed  critical.  For 


200 


National  Security 


example,  in  January  1986  the  United  States  Air  Force  ferried  a 
Hawk  missile  battery  from  France  to  N'Djamena. 

Internal  Security  and  Public  Order 

During  more  than  twenty  years  of  domestic  conflict,  the  agen- 
cies of  public  order  and  the  judiciary  in  Chad  were  severely  dis- 
rupted. In  areas  of  rebel  activity  in  the  south  and  in  regions  of  the 
north  under  Libyan  domination,  the  forces  of  civil  protection  and 
the  system  of  criminal  justice  disintegrated.  Where  the  national 
government  was  able  to  reimpose  its  authority,  harsh  and  arbitrary 
martial  law  often  resulted  in  mistreatment,  torture,  and  extrajudicial 
detentions  and  executions.  By  1986  efforts  were  under  way  to 
rebuild  the  civilian  legal  system,  although  long  periods  of  deten- 
tion without  trial  were  still  common,  and  the  rights  of  accused 
persons  were  not  fully  respected  during  court  proceedings  (see 
Judicial  System,  ch.  4).  The  various  elements  of  the  police  respon- 
sible for  domestic  security  continued  to  reflect  the  strong  influence 
of  the  military.  Abuses  by  unsupervised  military  authorities, 
however,  had  diminished  as  a  result  of  the  Habre  government's 
attempt  to  impose  greater  discipline  and  control. 

Police  Services 

Police  functions  in  Chad  were  the  responsibility  of  the  National 
Military  Police  (Police  Militaire  Nationale — PMN),  the  Territorial 
Military  Police  (Police  Militaire  Territoriale — PMT),  and  the 
National  Security  Police,  known  as  the  Surete.  Certain  internal 
security,  intelligence,  and  antiterrorism  operations  were  conducted 
by  the  Presidential  Guard  (Securite  Presidentielle — SP).  The 
Bureau  of  Documentation  and  Security  (Direction  de  la  Documen- 
tation et  de  la  Securite — DDS)  was  a  separate  intelligence  organi- 
zation and  political  police  force  that  sometimes  engaged  in  covert 
operations  against  opponents  of  the  government.  The  Special  Rapid 
Intervention  Brigade  performed  similar  functions  within  the  mili- 
tary, although  it  was  controlled  by  the  DDS  and  was  not  formally 
part  of  FANT. 

The  Surete  was  originally  part  of  a  unified  force  that,  until  1961 , 
served  all  four  countries  of  the  former  AEF.  With  about  800  agents, 
the  Surete  constituted  the  national  civil  police  and  the  municipal 
police  force  of  the  major  towns.  Its  duties  included  maintenance 
of  law  and  order,  crime  prevention,  maintenance  of  criminal  records 
and  identification  files,  investigations  and  arrests,  and  traffic  control. 

Until  1979  the  National  Gendarmerie,  a  paramilitary  body 
created  in  1960,  had  primary  responsibility  for  maintaining  order 
in  the  countryside.  The  force  had  remained  under  the  command 


201 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

of  a  French  officer  until  1971.  Later,  in  1979,  headed  by  Habre's 
political  rival,  Kamougue,  and  composed  mainly  of  southerners, 
the  National  Gendarmerie  had  been  involved  in  the  fighting  around 
N'Djamena.  It  remained  active  as  part  of  the  southern  resistance 
to  Habre  after  the  overthrow  of  the  Malloum  regime.  The  National 
Gendarmerie's  basic  units  were  twenty-five-man  mobile  platoons, 
which  had  responsibility  for  internal  security  and  crowd  control, 
and  "brigades"  (squads)  of  four  to  eight  gendarmes,  who  performed 
ordinary  police  work  in  small  towns  and  rural  areas.  Another  force, 
the  paramilitary  Ghadian  Security  Companies  (Compagnies  Tcha- 
diennes  de  Securite — CTS),  organized  by  Tombalbaye  in  1967, 
performed  mainly  constabulary  functions  in  eastern  Chad  against 
smugglers,  catde  rusders,  and  dissidents.  The  CTS  resisted  the  1975 
coup  that  overthrew  Tombalbaye,  and  it  was  subsequently  dis- 
banded. 

To  replace  the  National  Gendarmerie,  the  1979  GUNT  coali- 
tion formed  a  police  unit  of  soldiers  drawn  from  FAN  and  FAP, 
with  token  contributions  from  the  other  military  factions.  Mixed 
military  patrols  attempted  to  maintain  order  in  the  capital  among 
the  contending  factions.  After  the  Habre  government  had  been 
installed  in  1982,  most  of  the  previous  functions  of  the  National 
Gendarmerie  were  entrusted  to  the  newly  created  PMT.  Many  of 
the  latter' s  personnel  were  southerners  who  had  rallied  to  the 
government;  it  was  often  popularly  referred  to  as  the  "gen- 
darmerie." 

In  1987  the  PMT  had  an  authorized  strength  of  1,600,  but  its 
personnel  were  poorly  equipped,  often  armed  with  weapons  con- 
fiscated from  former  codos.  The  PMT  was  nominally  subject  to  the 
Ministry  of  Interior,  and  its  field  units  were  subject  to  the  local 
prefect.  In  practice,  the  force  came  under  military  authority,  and 
individual  units  were  under  jurisdiction  of  FANT  military  zone 
and  subzone  commanders. 

The  PMN,  which  in  1987  was  under  a  military  commander, 
Youssef  Galmaye,  was  a  branch  of  FANT;  the  force  performed 
regular  military  police  duties,  assisted  in  control  of  prisoners  of 
war,  provided  route  and  rear  area  security,  and  often  took  part 
in  combat  operations.  Its  authorized  strength  was  1,900,  and  the 
soldiers  serving  in  it  were  better  equipped  than  those  of  the  PMT. 
Training  was  provided  at  a  military  police  school  organized  by  the 
French  in  1986. 

The  Criminal  Justice  System 

The  Chadian  judicial  system  and  the  criminal  code  were  based 
on  the  French  criminal  justice  system.  The  traditional  system  of 


202 


Presidential  guard  officers  in  Presidential  Palace  compound 

Courtesy  Joseph  Krull 

law  presided  over  by  local  chiefs  and  sultans,  however,  has  been 
preserved  for  property  and  family  affairs  and  for  cases  of  local  petty 
crime.  These  customary  courts,  as  they  were  called,  have  been 
described  as  generally  effective  and  fair  in  rendering  sentences.  In 
theory,  decisions  of  the  customary  courts  were  subject  to  appeal 
to  the  regular  courts. 

Normal  protections  against  arbitrary  arrest,  as  well  as  restraints 
on  the  actions  of  police  and  judicial  authorities,  were  embodied 
in  the  criminal  code  statutes.  Detention  without  being  charged  was 
permitted  only  for  persons  under  suspicion  of  having  committed 
a  crime.  In  theory,  the  rights  of  detainees  included  access  to  counsel 
and  prompt  notification  of  the  charges  under  which  they  were  being 
held.  The  death  penalty  could  only  be  imposed  after  a  competent 
court  had  established  guilt  and  rendered  a  verdict.  In  actual  prac- 
tice, the  judicial  system  was  severely  undermined  by  the  break- 
down of  local  government  throughout  much  of  the  country. 
According  to  human  rights  reports  of  the  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  State,  most  Chadians  did  not  get  speedy  trials,  and  many 
were  held  for  extended  periods  before  being  released  without  trial. 
There  were  only  a  few  trained  lawyers,  judges,  and  other  court 
personnel  in  the  country,  and  law  books  were  not  widely  available. 
Although  in  the  late  1980s  the  Habre  government  was  trying  to 
rebuild  the  judicial  system,  the  lack  of  individuals  with  the  necessary 


203 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


legal  training  hampered  the  appointment  of  judges  and  examin- 
ing magistrates. 

All  judges  and  judicial  officers  were  appointed  by  the  president. 
The  courts  were  subject  to  the  influence  of  the  executive  branch, 
especially  in  political  and  internal  security  cases,  and  individuals 
regarded  as  endangering  the  security  of  the  state  were  subject  to 
indefinite  detention  without  trial.  In  1987  the  independent  human 
rights  group,  Amnesty  International,  reported  the  detention  of 
several  former  Chadian  exiles  upon  their  return  to  Chad,  as  well 
as  the  detention  of  relatives  of  government  opponents.  Although 
there  were  no  reports  of  disappearances,  nor  confirmed  reports  of 
torture  in  1987,  Amnesty  International  expressed  concern  over  the 
government's  failure  to  account  for  a  number  of  people  who  had 
disappeared  after  being  detained  in  earlier  years. 

The  Department  of  State  and  other  groups  have  described 
Chadian  prison  conditions  as  primitive.  To  some  extent,  the  con- 
ditions were  a  reflection  of  the  general  poverty  of  the  country  rather 
than  a  deliberate  policy.  The  scanty  prison  rations  made  it  neces- 
sary for  prisoners  to  have  a  source  of  food  outside  the  prison;  food 
was  usually  supplied  by  the  prisoners'  families.  Most  prison  per- 
sonnel had  no  professional  training,  and  many  prisoners  complained 
of  beatings  and  other  forms  of  abusive  treatment.  Conditions  in 
government  detention  centers  for  political  prisoners,  where  out- 
side visitors  were  not  permitted,  were  worse  than  those  in  the  regular 
prisons.  Those  prisoners  of  war  to  whom  the  International  Com- 
mittee of  the  Red  Cross  had  access  (mostly  Chadians  captured 
before  early  1986)  were  reported  to  be  receiving  adequate  treat- 
ment. As  of  late  1987,  the  Chadian  government  was  continuing 
to  deny  the  Red  Cross  access  to  an  estimated  2,000  Libyan  prisoners 
of  war  captured  since  1986  because  the  Libyans  had  refused  the 
Red  Cross  access  to  FANT  prisoners  held  in  Libya. 

Internal  Security  Conditions 

Following  his  assumption  of  power  in  1982,  Habre  faced  both 
Goukouni's  GUNT  forces  in  the  north  and  resistance  by  armed 
dissidents  in  the  south,  principally  former  gendarmes  and  soldiers 
of  FAT.  Government  troops  trying  to  establish  control  in  the  south 
were  attacked,  as  were  people  and  installations  connected  with  the 
government  and  the  state  cotton  company,  Cotontchad.  In  response 
to  these  attacks,  government  forces  adopted  harshly  repressive  tac- 
tics. Reprisals  were  taken,  often  against  innocent  civilians.  Sus- 
pected sympathizers  of  the  dissidents  were  likely  to  be  executed 
or  to  disappear. 


204 


A  representative 
of  the  International  Committee 
of  the  Red  Cross  visits  prisoners 
of  war  in  the  Tibesti  Mountains 
Courtesy  International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross 
(Claire  Bellmann) 


The  violence  in  the  south  diminished  for  a  time  after  the  govern- 
ment adopted  more  conciliatory  tactics  beginning  in  late  1983.  In 
mid- 1984,  however,  the  guerrilla  groups  known  collectively  as  codos 
launched  a  new  series  of  attacks.  During  this  period,  many  civilians 
were  attacked  by  both  government  and  rebel  forces.  Villagers  sus- 
pected of  complicity  with  the  insurgents  were  often  executed  without 
trial,  or  they  suffered  the  destruction  of  their  homes  and  crops. 
There  were  also  reports  of  codo  atrocities  against  local  officials  or 
civilians  cooperating  with  the  government.  Under  conditions  of  de 
facto  martial  law,  government  troops  exercised  little  restraint  in 
their  efforts  to  curb  the  rebellion. 

Numerous  incidents  of  noncombatant  deaths  and  detentions  were 
also  reported  in  the  northern  battle  zone,  as  control  over  towns 
shifted  between  FANT  and  the  forces  of  GUNT.  Both  armies  were 
accused  of  executions  and  detentions  of  private  citizens  suspected 
of  collaboration  with  opposing  forces. 

By  1986  most  of  the  codos  had  accepted  government  offers  of 
amnesty,  and  the  turmoil  in  the  south  had  been  replaced  by  a  calmer 
atmosphere.  In  addition,  the  enforcement  of  a  military  code  of 
justice  and  strict  punishment  of  undisciplined  soldiers  had  helped 
to  curb  the  political  killings  and  disappearances.  Many  earlier 
political  detainees  who  could  not  be  found,  however,  were  assumed 
to  have  been  killed  without  trial. 

As  of  1988,  most  of  the  contending  factions  that  had  kept  Chad 


205 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

in  a  state  of  turmoil  and  instability  had  been  assimilated  into  the 
unified  military  establishment  of  FANT.  Under  these  circum- 
stances, and  with  the  activities  of  former  rebels  subject  to  scrutiny 
by  various  intelligence  networks  within  the  military,  incipient  defec- 
tions could  be  kept  in  check.  Moreover,  Habre  was  placing  increas- 
ing reliance  on  the  well-equipped  and  trusted  Presidential  Guard 
to  maintain  internal  control. 

The  only  outbreak  of  dissidence  had  occurred  among  the  Hajerai 
ethnic  group  from  the  Guera  Massif,  who  had  been  prominent  in 
the  original  rebellion  of  the  mid-1960s  and  in  the  ranks  of  Habre 's 
FAN  (see  Languages  and  Ethnic  Groups,  ch.  2).  In  late  1986,  after 
a  series  of  incidents  between  Toubou  troops  and  Hajerai  soldiers, 
a  group  of  Hajerai  who  felt  that  they  were  being  pushed  out  of 
positions  of  influence  formed  the  underground  Movement  for  the 
National  Salvation  of  Chad  (Mouvement  pour  le  Salut  National 
du  Tchad — MOSANAT).  Its  head  was  an  army  lieutenant  and 
former  prefect  of  Guera  Prefecture,  Boda  Maldoun. 

Following  the  harassment  of  many  Hajerai  by  the  military  police 
in  mid- 1987,  MOSANAT  armed  insurrection  in  Guera  was 
restrained  by  the  Presidential  Guard.  As  of  early  1988,  MOSANAT 
reportedly  was  operating  from  bases  in  western  Sudan,  in  alliance 
with  the  remnants  of  other  rebellious  Chadian  factions  that  had 
formed  part  of  GUNT.  The  Habre  regime  faced  no  immediate 
danger  from  the  group,  but  the  uprising  underscored  the  fact  that 
failure  to  accommodate  the  various  ethnic  and  regional  interests 
in  the  army  could  lay  a  foundation  for  renewed  domestic  instability 
and  violence. 

*    *  * 

The  monthly  Afrique  defense  (available  in  English  as  African  Defence 
Journal)  regularly  treats  military  developments  in  Chad.  Its  accounts 
of  the  fighting  in  northern  Chad  in  1986  and  1987  are  fairly  com- 
prehensive, covering  the  tactics  employed,  the  equipment  used, 
and  the  size  and  caliber  of  the  forces  involved.  Reports  in  Jeune 
Afrique  and  the  New  York  Times  also  provide  details  on  the  main 
engagements.  In  the  CSIS  Africa  Notes  series,  William  J.  Foltz 
appraises  the  politico-military  situation  in  Chad  in  the  latter  part 
of  1987,  in  the  wake  of  the  Chadian  successes.  A  study  by  Alex 
Rondos  in  the  same  series  assesses  earlier  phases  of  the  Chadian 
Civil  War. 

A  concise  military  history  of  Chad  between  1960  and  early  1986 
can  be  found  in  an  article  by  Bernard  Lanne  in  Africa  South  of  the 
Sahara,  1987.  Conflict  in  Chad  by  Virginia  M.  Thompson  and 


206 


National  Security 


Richard  Adloff  interprets  the  sources  of  the  struggle  among  the 
Chadian  armed  factions  preceding  the  Libyan  intervention  of  1980. 
Additional  and  more  recent  analysis  is  included  in  a  survey  by 
Michael  P.  Kelley.  An  article  by  David  S.  Yost  examines  the  French 
perspective  on  the  warfare  in  Chad  before  1983.  Operation  mania, 
a  book  by  the  pseudonymous  French  officer,  "Colonel  Spartacus," 
provides  detail  on  the  political  and  military  aspects  of  French 
involvement  in  1983  and  1984.  Samuel  Decalo's  Historical  Dictio- 
nary of  Chad  provides  useful  information  on  the  various  armed  fac- 
tions and  their  leaders.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


207 


Appendix  A 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Primary- School  Enrollment  by  Prefecture,  1986-87 

3  Cotton  Production,  1960-87 

4  Production  of  Selected  Agricultural  Products,  Selected  Years, 

1961-85 

5  Direction  of  Trade,  1979-85 

6  Balance  of  Payments,  1978-84 

7  External  Debt,  1980-85 

8  Major  Equipment  of  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces,  1987 

9  Major  Equipment  Items  Captured  from  Libya,  1987 
10  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1987 


209 


Appendix  A 


lable  1. 

Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0  39 

inches 

  3.3 

feet 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2) 

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

Metric  tons 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Primary-School  Enrollment  by  Prefecture,  1986-87 


Prefecture 

Enrollment 

Percentage  of  Primary- 
School-Aged  Children 
Enrolled 

Batha   

4,861 

8.0 

Biltine  

4,401 

14.5 

2,542 

16.7 

39,440 

33.4 

25,124 

70.7 

4,898 

14.6 

2,441 

10.6 

  35,852 

70.0 

Logone  Oriental   

43,414 

82.1 

44,510 

37.3 

64,789 

71.6 

7,653 

13.0 

6,523 

35.5 

  19,594 

37.6 

TOTAL   

306,042 

40.3 

211 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Cotton  Production,  1960-87 


Area  Under  Cultivation  Average  Yield  Total  Production 

(hectares)  (kilograms  per  hectare)  (metric  tons) 


1960    260,000  152  39,600 

1961    288,000  340  97,900 

1962    300,000  155  46,700 

1963    338,900  278  94,500 

1964    286,900  365  104,900 

1965    289,200  342  99,100 

1966    294,100  295  86,800 

1967    303,100  404  122,700 

1968    241,000  421  101,600 

1969    296,600  500  148,500 

1970    292,200  399  116,700 

1971    303,000  312  94,600 

1972    304,300  356  108,400 

1973    273,100  380  104,000 

1974    265,000  431  114,400 

1975    269,800  532  143,600 

1976    332,000  524  174,000 

1977   318,800  462  147,300 

1978    284,000  441  125,000 

1979    267,300  511  136,800 

1980    179,800  507  91,300 

1981    166,500  514  85,700 

1982    133,900  533  71,400 

1983    137,700  741  102,100 

1984    176,100  900  158,500 

1985    141,900  693  98,400 

1986    147,300  674  99,400 

1987    125,400  713  89,400 


Table  4.  Production  of  Selected  Agricultural  Products,  Selected  Years,  1961-85 
(in  thousands  of  metric  tons) 

Millet,  Sorghum, 

and  Berbere  Wheat       Rice       Corn        Tubers  Peanuts 


1961    715                2  1  21  1        7  1  201  130 

1965    614               3  38        12  232  150 

1970    610  n.a.  37  n.a.  303  96 

1975    522  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  337  82 

1980    450               6  2  53  2  27  2  431  100 

1985    526                1  21  48  563  90 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  1953-57  average. 

2  1979-81  average. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization, 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  Yearbook,  Rome,  1985. 


212 


Appendix  A 

Table  5.  Direction  of  Trade,  1979-85 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

1979       1980        1981         1982         1983         1984  1985 


Exports  (f.o.b.) 


9.0 

14.9 

12.7 

10.9 

13.9 

25.7 

15.8 

West  Germany  .... 

9.3 

10.1 

14.1 

5.5 

13.9 

17.7 

10.1 

4.9 

9.1 

16.2 

7.1 

7.8 

8.2 

7.8 

12.  A 

6.2 

3.5 

1.8 

2.2 

11.2 

5.7 

Benelux  countries  .  . 

2.5 

2.1 

2.0 

1.7 

0.7 

2.2 

2.8 

10.6 

11.5 

5.2 

4.8 

5.4 

10.5 

2.1 

Italy   

1.1 

1.0 

3.2 

1.4 

2.8 

2.0 

1.3 

Other   

38.5 

16.1 

26.5 

24.5 

43.5 

32.2 

42.0 

Total  exports    .  .  . 

88.3 

71.0 

83.4 

57.7 

90.2 

109.7 

87.6 

nports  (c.i.f.)  2 

35.1 

12.6 

19.1 

24.6 

25.8 

43.4 

48.5 

3.0 

2.0 

0.7 

1.9 

13.8 

19.1 

27.7 

7.3 

12.7 

21.8 

14.3 

15.8 

16.6 

15.7 

Italy   

2.4 

0.3 

1.4 

2.5 

7.0 

6.6 

13.4 

Benelux  countries  .  . 

2.2 

1.5 

2.9 

4.7 

4.2 

8.3 

15.1 

West  Germany  .... 

5.8 

3.5 

5.0 

3.4 

5.0 

3.3 

5.5 

Other   

29.4 

40.9 

57.1 

57.2 

85.7 

73.9 

90.4 

Total  imports  .  .  . 

85.2 

73.5 

108.0 

108.6 

157.3 

171.2 

216.3 

1  f.o.b. — Free  on  board. 

2  c.i.f. — Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Direction  of  Trade  Statis- 
tics Yearbook,  1986,  Washington,  1987,  133. 


213 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


In  CO  CHO  +  N 


N  N  ifl 


CO  q 

co  co 


a>  co 


co  co 
no  ci 


O  <£> 

d  cd 


N  ON  O  CO  N 


q  q 
I 


*  O  (N  (N  m  (£) 


T-J  O 

(NO  6 


o  oo  m  -«-c 


rin"  CO 


CM  ^  O 

*'6d 


cn  m      cm  ^  co 


oi  m  n 
co  d 


CD  iH 


VO  CO 


13 

3  " 

«  bo  £ 

G  _  O 

I  ^ 

O  ,  <4H 

U  <*3  O 

O  O 

*  t  * 


net  .  . 

"33  ; 
c  . 

shippi 

bo  ! 
S3  . 

ludi 

u 

.5  1 

Cw 

:orae 

c 

C 

«; 

R 
X 

S3  • 

*  : 

4. 

o 

•a  s 


bo  « 

l s 

rv  c/3 

o  .B 

T>  ^ 

U  -O 

-a  3 

bo  88 

.S  « 

TJ  bp 

^3 


o  y 
a, 


s 

u  3 
S3  O 
cj  u 
be  <-> 


u 


bo  v  t: 
g  .h  o 
Q  Q 


bo  bo  M 
3^3 

§  3 


.3  X 
3  -O 


s™  o  y 

H 


60 
-3 


i-B 


O  g 

U  fa 


214 


Appendix  A 


Table  7.  External  Debt,  1980-85 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1980 

1981 

1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

191.8 

173.9 

144.7 

148.1 

140.0 

149.6 

5.0 

5.0 

5.0 

3.0 

1.0 

3.0 

International  Monetary 

6.9 

8.3 

7.8 

7.4 

4.4 

8.7 

TOTAL   

203.7 

187.2 

157.5 

158.5 

145.4 

161.3 

Table  8.  Major  Equipment  of  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces,  1987 

Country  of 

Type  In  Inventory  *  Manufacture 

Armored  vehicles 

Panhard  ERC-90  armored  cars  with  90mm 

gun    4  France 

AML-90  light  armored  cars,  some  with 

90mm  gun    50  -do- 

AML-20  light  armored  cars    6  -do- 

V-150  Cadillac  Gage  armored  cars  with 

90mm  gun    8  United  States 

Artillery 

M-101  105mm  howitzers   5  -do- 

60mm,  82mm,  106mm  mortars   n.a.  n.a. 

Antitank  weapons 

Rocket  launchers  68mm,  89mm    n.a.  n.a. 

106mm  recoilless  rifles   n.a.  United  States 

112mm  APILAS  recoilless  rifles    n.a.  France 

Milan  wire-guided  missiles    50  -do- 

LAW  M-72  launchers   n.a.  United  States 

Air  defense  weapons 

20mm,  30mm  guns    n.a.  France 

Redeye,  Stinger  shoulder- fired  missiles   ....  n.a.  United  States 

SA-7  shoulder-fired  missiles    n.a.  Soviet  Union 

All-terrain  vehicles 

Toyota  4x4;  AM  General  4x4;  Sovamag 

TC-10    400  Japan,  United 

States,  and  France 

Trucks 

2XA  ton  cargo    n.a.  France  and 

United  States 

n.a. — not  available. 
*  Estimated. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988,  London,  1987,124. 


215 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Table  9.  Major  Equipment  Items  Captured  from  Libya,  1987 


Type 


Number 


Country  of 
Manufacture 


Armored  vehicles 

T-54  tanks    3  Soviet  Union 

T-55  tanks    113  -do- 

T-62  tanks    12  -do- 
Tank  transporters    10  -do- 

Cascavel  armored  cars    8  Brazil 

AML-90  armored  vehicles    4  France 

BMP  personnel  carriers    146  Soviet  Union 

BRDM  armored  reconnaissance  vehicles    ...  10  -do- 

BTR  personnel  carriers   10  -do- 
Weapons  systems 

14.5mm  heavy  machine  guns    50  -do- 

23mm  air  defense  guns   16  -do- 

106mm  recoilless  rifles    60  n.a. 

107mm  recoilless  rifles    4  n.a. 

122mm  field  howitzers    22  n.a. 

SA-6  batteries  (tracked  missile  launcher  ....  12  Soviet  Union 

accompanied  by  radar  on  tracked  carriage) 
SA-13  batteries  (launcher  and  radar  on 

tracked  carriage)    4  -do- 
Vehicles 

Toyota  all-terrain  mounted  with  14.5mm 

guns    60  Japan  and  Soviet 

Union 

Toyota  troop  transporters    194  Japan 

Jeeps  mounted  with  106mm  recoilless  rifles    .  30  United  States 

Land  Rovers   24  Britain 

Mercedes  heavy  transport  trucks   228  West  Germany 

Mercedes  repair  vehicles    12  -do- 
Mercedes  tank  trucks    43  -do- 
Aircraft 

L-39  Albatros  jet  trainers    11  Czechoslovakia 

SF-260  Marchetti  light  trainers    9  Italy 

Mi-24  helicopters    3  Soviet  Union 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Chad,  Kadafi/Tchad:  Ingerence,  agression,  occupation:  Livre  blanc, 
N'Djamena,  Chad,  1987,  109-10. 


216 


Appendix  A 


Table  10.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1987 

Country  of 


Type 

In  Inventory  * 

Manufacture 

C-130  Hercules  transport   

  2 

United  States 

  3 

-do- 

-do- 

  1 

Spain 

Pilatus  PC-7  trainer   

  2 

Switzerland 

SF-260  Marchetti  trainer   

  n.a. 

Italy 

n.a. — not  available. 
*  Estimated. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988,  London,  1987,  124. 


217 


Appendix  B 


Principal  Armed  Factions,  1975-87 

ANL — see  National  Liberation  Army. 

Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Forces  Armees  du  Nord — FAN) — 
Composed  of  FROLINAT  (q.  v. )  units  that  remained  loyal  to 
Habre  following  his  break  from  Goukouni  Oueddei  in  1976.  Con- 
sisting at  first  of  only  a  few  hundred  Toubou  and  some  Hajerai 
and  Ouaddaian  fighters,  FAN  began  its  operations  from  bases 
in  eastern  Chad,  where  it  received  help  from  Sudan.  Driven  from 
N'Djamena  back  to  its  eastern  refuge  after  the  Libyan  incur- 
sion of  1980,  FAN  scored  a  series  of  victories  over  Goukouni 's 
GUNT  (q.v.)  forces  in  1982,  which  culminated  in  the  recapture 
of  N'Djamena  and  Habre's  assumption  of  the  presidency.  FAN 
became  the  core  of  the  new  national  army,  FANT  (q.  v.),  in  Janu- 
ary 1983. 

CCFAN— see  Second  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT. 

CDR — see  Democratic  Revolutionary  Council. 

Chadian  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes — FAT) — 
The  army  of  the  central  government  of  President  Felix  Malloum 
until  his  downfall  in  1979,  when  the  head  of  the  gendarmerie, 
Wadel  Abdelkader  Kamougue,  assumed  command.  Joined  by 
gendarmerie  units,  FAT  became  a  regional  force  representing 
primarily  the  Sara  ethnic  group  of  the  five  southern  prefectures. 
It  joined  with  GUNT  (q.v.)  forces  fighting  against  Hissein  Habre 
and  was  a  recipient  of  aid  from  Libya.  FAT  began  to  disinte- 
grate during  1982  as  a  result  of  defeats  inflicted  by  Habre's  FAN 
(q.v.).  Most  remaining  soldiers  accepted  integration  into  FAN 
or  resumed  their  insurgency  as  codos. 

Chadian  National  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Nationales 
Tchadiennes — FANT) — The  army  of  the  central  government 
since  January  1983,  when  pro-Habre  forces  were  merged.  Con- 
sisting of  about  10,000  soldiers  at  that  time,  it  swelled  with  the 
assimilation  of  former  FAT  (q.v.)  and  codos  rebels  from  the  south 
and,  in  1986,  with  the  addition  of  GUNT  (q.v.)  soldiers  who 
had  turned  against  their  Libyan  allies.  Freshly  outfitted  by  France 
and  the  United  States,  FANT  drove  Libyan  troops  from  their 
bases  in  northern  Chad  in  a  series  of  victories  in  1987. 

codos — see  commandos. 

commandos  (codos) — Southern  guerrilla  groups,  active  from  1983 
to  1986,  that  resisted  domination  of  their  region  by  Habre's  army. 


219 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Many  were  veterans  of  the  government  army  of  the  1970s  or 
Kamougue's  FAT  (q.v.).  Totaling  as  many  as  15,000,  they  oper- 
ated independently  under  such  names  as  "Red  Codos,"  "Thun- 
der Red  Codos,"  "Coconut  Palms,"  "Hope,"  and  "Green 
Eagles."  The  Red  Codos  under  Colonel  Alphonse  Kotiga  were 
the  most  effective.  Kotiga  exercised  some  influence  over  the  other 
groups  and  was  instrumental  in  persuading  them  to  abandon 
their  insurgency  by  promises  of  rewards  and  rehabilitation.  About 
1,500  had  been  assimilated  into  FANT  (q.v.)  as  of  1986. 

Democratic  Revolutionary  Council  (Conseil  Democratique  Revolu- 
tionnaire — CDR) — Members  were  Chadians  of  Arab  origin, 
most  originating  in  Ouaddai  Prefecture  or  Batha  Prefecture,  with 
close  ties  to  Libya  and  receptive  to  some  of  the  ideological  precepts 
of  Muammar  al  Qadhafl.  After  the  death  of  its  founder,  Acyl 
Ahmat,  the  CDR  was  headed  by  Acheikh  ibn  Oumar.  The  most 
pro-Libyan  faction  in  GUNT  (q. v.),  it  fought  to  prevent  the  defec- 
tion of  FAP  (q.v.)  units  from  Libya  in  1986.  Believed  to  num- 
ber up  to  3,000  at  its  peak  in  the  early  1980s,  the  CDR  dwindled 
to  fewer  than  1,000  adherents  before  it  was  battered  by  FANT 
(q.v.)  attacks  in  1987. 

FAN — see  Armed  Forces  of  the  North. 

FANT — see  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces. 

FAO — see  Western  Armed  Forces. 

FAP — see  People's  Armed  Forces. 

FAT — see  Chadian  Armed  Forces. 

First  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT — Operated  in  eastern  Chad 
as  one  of  the  original  armies  of  the  FROLINAT  insurgency  under 
General  Mohamed  Baghlani.  After  Baghlani's  death  in  1977, 
its  personnel  gravitated  to  the  First  Volcan  Army  of  Adoum  Dana 
or  Acyl  Ahmat 's  New  Volcan  (see  Volcan  Forces).  The  First 
Liberation  Army  reemerged  under  Mahamat  Abba  Said  in  1984, 
joining  the  GUNT  (q.v.)  coalition  against  Habre,  but  was  one 
of  the  factions  disapproving  dependence  on  Libya. 

FROLINAT— see  National  Liberation  Front  of  Chad. 

GUNT — see  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity. 

MPLT— see  Third  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT. 

National  Liberation  Army  (Armee  Nationale  de  Liberation — 
ANL) — The  military  wing  of  the  GUNT  coalition  under 
Goukouni  that  had  been  formally  constituted  in  October  1982 
(see  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity). 

National  Liberation  Front  of  Chad  (Front  de  Liberation  Nation- 
ale  du  Tchad— FROLINAT)— See  First  Liberation  Army  of 
FROLINAT,  Second  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT,  and 
Third  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT. 


220 


Appendix  B 


People's  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Populaires — FAP) — 
Composed  of  followers  of  Goukouni  after  the  schism  with  Habre 
in  1976.  With  an  ethnic  base  in  the  Teda  clan  of  the  Toubou 
from  the  Tibesti  area  of  northern  Chad,  the  force  was  armed 
by  Libya  and  formed  the  largest  component  of  the  GUNT  (q.  v. ) 
coalition  army  opposing  Habre 's  rule.  FAP  troops  rebelled 
against  their  Libyan  allies  in  the  latter  part  of  1986.  Many  of 
them  were  subsequendy  integrated  into  the  national  army,  FANT 
(q.v.),  and  participated  in  the  1987  attempt  to  drive  Libya  out 
of  Chadian  territory. 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Chad  (Mouvement  Popu- 
laire  pour  la  Liberation  du  Tchad — MPLT) — see  Western 
Armed  Forces. 

Second  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT — One  of  the  original 
groups  in  rebellion  against  the  regime  of  Francois  Tombalbaye. 
The  Second  Liberation  Army  was  composed  of  the  Toubou  active 
in  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture,  first  under  Goukouni 's 
command  and  later  under  Habre' s  command.  Renamed  the 
Command  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Conseil 
de  Commandement  des  Forces  Armees  du  Nord — CCFAN),  it 
was  in  a  bitter  struggle  with  the  First  Liberation  Army  in  the 
early  1970s.  After  the  rift  between  Habre  and  Goukouni  in  1976, 
Habre' s  followers  adopted  the  name  of  Armed  Forces  of  the 
North  (Forces  Armees  du  Nord — FAN),  and  Goukouni 's  fol- 
lowers adopted  the  name  of  People's  Armed  Forces  (Forces 
Armees  Populaires — FAP). 

Third  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT — A  small  group  from  among 
the  Kanembu  people  of  western  Chad,  the  Third  Liberation  Army 
splintered  off  from  FAP  (q.v.)  in  1977;  initially  headed  by  Abou- 
baker  Abderrahmane,  it  later  became  known  as  the  Popular  Move- 
ment for  the  Liberation  of  Chad  (Movement  Populaire  pour  la 
Liberation  du  Tchad — MPLT).  In  a  subsequent  split,  part  of  the 
MPLT  became  the  Western  Armed  Forces  (q.v.). 

Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity  (Gouvernement 
d' Union  Nationale  de  Transition — GUNT) — A  coalition  of  fac- 
tions occupying  the  north  with  the  aid  of  Libya,  GUNT  formed 
the  principal  opposition  to  Habre  after  1981.  Its  component  fac- 
tions (q.v.)  included  initially  FAP,  FAT,  the  CDR,  the  FAO,  and 
Volcan  Forces.  The  National  Liberation  Army  (Armee  Nationale 
de  Liberation — ANL)  was  formally  constituted  as  the  military 
arm  of  GUNT  in  October  1982.  Although  Goukouni  served  as 
commander  in  chief,  the  various  GUNT  military  factions 
remained  as  distinct  units  under  their  individual  commanders. 
In  general  usage,  the  term  GUNT  continued  to  be  used  to  refer 


221 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  northern  rebel  army.  After  Goukouni's  FAP  mutinied 
against  Libyan  domination  in  1986  and  Goukouni  was  removed 
as  head  of  GUNT,  the  remaining  GUNT  contingents  under  the 
CDR's  Acheikh  ibn  Oumar  were  sometimes  referred  to  as  "Neo- 
GUNT"  or  "GUNT/CDR." 

Volcan  Forces — The  First  Liberation  Army  of  FROLINAT  (q.  v. ) 
split  up  in  1977  into  two  Volcan  (volcano)  armies.  The  First  Vol- 
can Army  of  Adoum  Dana  was  an  ethnic  Arab  force  receiving 
support  from  Sudan.  It  was  absorbed  into  GUNT  (q.v.)  in  1981 
and  fought  against  Habre.  New  Volcan,  the  predecessor  of  the 
CDR  (q.  v.),  was  commanded  by  Acyl  Ahmat,  a  protege  of  Libya. 
Acyl  aligned  his  followers  with  Goukouni  against  Habre  in  1979. 
Although  initially  among  the  smallest  elements  (400  to  500  men), 
New  Volcan  constituted  a  corps  of  shock  troops  who  were  among 
the  most  resolute  fighters  in  GUNT. 

Western  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees  Occidentals — FAO) — 
An  offshoot  of  the  MPLT  (q.v.),  the  FAO  recruited  its  forces 
mainly  among  the  Kanembu  group  located  along  the  shores  of 
Lake  Chad  and  enjoyed  support  from  some  political  elements 
in  Nigeria.  Initially  part  of  GUNT  (q.v.),  the  FAO  had  report- 
edly divided  into  pro-  and  anti-Goukouni  factions.  Its  leader, 
Moussa  Medela,  rejected  Acheikh  ibn  Oumar  as  head  of  GUNT 
after  Goukouni  was  deposed  at  the  close  of  1986. 

*    *  * 

Additional  background  on  the  rivalry  between  the  numerous 
armed  factions  in  Chad  during  the  1970s  and  early  1980s  can  be 
found  in  Virginia  M.  Thompson  and  Richard  Adloff  s  Conflict  in 
Chad  and  in  Why  Chad?,  a  monograph  by  Alex  Rondos  in  the  CSIS 
Africa  Notes  series.  Each  of  the  groups,  together  with  its  antecedents, 
is  briefly  sketched  in  Peut-on  encore  sauver  le  Tchad?  by  Michel 
N'Gangbet.  Samuel  Decalo  also  provides  sketches  of  most  factions 
in  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


222 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Bjorkelo,  Anders  J.  State  and  Society  in  Three  Central  Sudanic  King- 
doms: Kanem-Bornu,  Bagirmi,  and  Wadai.  Bergen,  Norway:  Univer- 
sity of  Bergen,  1976. 

Brenner,  Louis.  The  Shehus  of  Kukawa.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press, 
1973. 

Buijtenhuijs,  Robert.  Le  Frolinat  et  les  revokes  populaires  du  Tchad, 
1965-1976.  The  Hague:  Mouton,  1978. 

Cordell,  Dennis  D.  Dar  al-Kuti  and  the  Last  Years  of  the  Trans-Saharan 
Slave  Trade.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1985. 

 .  ' 'Extracting  People  from  Precapitalist  Production:  French 

Equatorial  Africa  from  the  1890s  to  the  1930s."  Pages  137-52 
in  Dennis  D.  Cordell  and  Joel  W.  Gregory  (eds.),  African  Popu- 
lation and  Capitalism:  Historical  Perspectives.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1987. 

Curtin,  Philip,  Steven  Feierman,  Leonard  Thompson,  and  Jan 
Vansina.  African  History.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1978. 

Decalo,  Samuel.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad.  (2d  ed.)  Metuchen, 
New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1987. 

 ' 'Regionalism,  Political  Decay,  and  Civil  Strife  in  Chad," 

Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  18,  No.  1,  March  1980, 
23-56. 

Fisher,  H.J.  "The  Central  Sahara  and  Sudan."  Pages  58-141  in 
Richard  Gray  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  4.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1975. 

 "The  Eastern  Maghrib  and  Central  Sudan."  Pages 

232-330  in  Roland  Oliver  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa, 
3.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1977. 

Foltz,  William  J.  Chad's  Third  Republic:  Strengths,  Problems,  and  Pros- 
pects. (CSIS  Africa  Notes,  No.  77.)  Washington:  Center  for  Stra- 
tegic and  International  Studies,  1987. 

July,  Robert  W.  A  History  of  the  African  People.  New  York:  Scrib- 
ner's,  1980. 

Kelley,  Michael  P.  A  State  in  Disarray:  Conditions  of  Chad's  Survival. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 
Lanne,  Bernard.  Tchad-Libye:  Laquerelle  desfrontieres.  Paris:  Karthala, 

1982. 

Le  Cornec,  Jacques.  Histoire politique  du  Tchad de  1900  a  1962.  Paris: 
Libraire  generale  de  droit  et  de  jurisprudence,  1963. 


223 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Lemarchand,  Rene.  4 'Chad:  The  Misadventures  of  the  North- 
South  Dialectic,"  African  Studies  Review,  29,  No.  3,  September 
1986,  27-41. 

Levtzion,  Nehemia.  "The  Sahara  and  the  Sudan  from  the  Arab 
Conquest  of  the  Maghrib  to  the  Rise  of  the  Almoravids." 
Pages  637-84  in  J.  D.  Fage  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa, 
2.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 

Rondos,  Alex.  Why  Chad?  (CSIS  Africa  Notes,  No.  18.)  Washing- 
ton: Center  for  Strategic  and  International  Studies,  1983. 

Thompson,  Virginia  M.,  and  Richard  Adloff.  Conflict  in  Chad. 
Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1981. 

 The  Emerging  States  of  French  Equatorial  Africa.  Stanford:  Stan- 
ford University  Press,  1960. 

Weinstein,  Brian.  Eboue.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1972. 

Zeltner,  Jean-Claude.  Pages  d'histoire  du  Kanem:  Pays  tchadien.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1980. 


Chapter  2 

Bouquet,  Christian.  Tchad:  La  genese  d'un  conflit.  Paris:  L'Harmat- 
tan, 1982. 

Bret,  Rene-Joseph.  Vie  du  Sultan  Mohamed  Bakhit,  1856-1916:  La 

penetration  frangaise  au  Dar  Sila,  Tchad.  Paris:  Editions  du  centre 

national  de  la  recherche  scientifique,  1987. 
Britannica  Book  of  the  Year,  1988.  (Eds.,  Daphne  Daume  and  Louise 

Watson.)  Chicago:  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  1988. 
Cabot,  Jean.  Atlas  pratique  du  Tchad.  Paris:  Institut  de  geographie 

national,  1972. 

Cabot,  Jean,  and  Christian  Bouquet.  Le  Tchad.  Paris:  Presses  uni- 
versitaires  de  France,  1973. 

Chad.  Ministry  of  Planning  and  Reconstruction.  Tchad:  Relance 
economique  en  chiffres.  N'Djamena,  Chad:  1983. 

Chapelle,  Jean.  Nomads  noirs  du  Sahara.  Paris:  Plon,  1958. 

 Le peuple  tchadien:  Ses  racines  et  sa  vie  quotidienne.  Paris:  L'Har- 
mattan, 1980. 

Christopher,  John.  Islamic  Civilization.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row, 
1971. 

Cordell,  Dennis  D.  "The  Awlad  Sulayman  of  Libya  and  Chad: 
Power  and  Adaptation  in  the  Sahara  and  Sahel,"  Canadian  Journal 
of  African  Studies  (Revue  canadienne  des  etudes  africaines)  [Mon- 
treal], 19,  No.  1,  1985,  319-43. 

 Dar  al-Kuti  and  the  Last  Years  of  the  Trans-Saharan  Slave  Trade. 

Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1985. 


224 


Bibliography 


 .  "Extracting  People  from  Precapitalist  Production:  French 

Equatorial  Africa  from  the  1890s  to  the  1930s."  Pages  137-52 
in  Dennis  D.  Cordell  and  Joel  W.  Gregory  (eds.),  African  Popu- 
lation and  Capitalism:  Historical  Perspectives.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1987. 

 "The  Savannas  of  North-Central  Africa."  Pages  30-74 

in  David  Birmingham  and  Phyllis  Martin  (eds.),  History  of  Cen- 
tral Africa.  London:  Longman,  1983. 

Decalo,  Samuel.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad.  (2d  ed.)  Metuchen, 
New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1987. 

Dumas-Champion,  Francoise.  Les  Masa  du  Tchad:  Betail  et  societe. 
Paris:  Maison  des  sciences  de  l'homme,  1983. 

Greenberg,  Joseph.  The  Languages  of  Africa.  Bloomington:  Indiana 
University  Press,  1966. 

Hiernaux,  J.  Les  populations  du  Moyen-Chari.  Fort-Lamy,  Chad: 
Institut  national  tchadien  des  sciences  humaines,  1967. 

Jaulin,  Robert.  La  mort  sara.  Paris:  Plon,  1971. 

Lange,  Dierk.  Chronologie  et  histoire  d'un  royaume  africain.  Wiesbaden: 
Franz  Steiner,  1977. 

Lebeuf,  Annie  M.D.  Les principautes  Kotoko.  Paris:  Centre  national 
de  la  recherche  scientifique,  1969. 

Le  Rouvreur,  Albert.  Saheliens  et  sahariens  du  Tchad.  Paris:  Berger 
Levrault,  1962. 

Lovejoy,  Paul.  Salt  of  the  Desert  Sun:  A  History  of  Salt  Production  and 
Trade  in  the  Central  Sudan.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1985. 

Magnant,  Jean-Pierre.  La  terre  sara,  terre  tchadienne.  Paris:  L'Har- 
mattan,  1986. 

Murphy,  Elaine  M.  World  Population:  Toward  the  Next  Century. 
Washington:  Population  Reference  Bureau,  1985. 

Ouaidou,  Nassour  G.  Situation  demographique  des  etats  membres  du 
CILSS.  Bamako,  Mali:  Institut  du  Sahel,  1984. 

Population  Reference  Bureau.  World  Population  Data  Sheet,  1987. 
Washington:  1987. 

Sautter,  Gilles.  "Notes  sur  la  construction  du  chemin  de  fer  Congo- 
Ocean  (1921-1934),"  Cahiers  d' etudes  of ricaines  [Paris],  7,  No.  26, 
219-99. 

Sillans,  Roger.  Les  savanes  de  VAfrique  centrale.  Paris:  Chevalier,  1958. 
Tubiana,  Marie-Jose.  Survivances  preislamiques  en  pays  zaghawa.  Paris: 

Institut  d'ethnologie,  1964. 
Works,  John  A.,  Jr.  Pilgrims  in  a  Strange  Land:  Hausa  Communities 

in  Chad.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1976. 
Zeltner,  Jean-Claude.  Les  Arabes  dans  la  region  du  Lac  Tchad.  Sarh, 

Chad:  College  Charles  Lwanga,  1977. 


225 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Chapter  3 

Assegninov,  S.,  and  J.  Hervieu.  Mils  et  Sorghos  du  Tchad.  (Report 
No.  7.)  N'Djamena,  Chad:  Centre  ORSTOM  de  N'Djamena, 
1975. 

Azevedo,  Mario  J.  "Foreign  Assistance  and  Dependence:  Post- 
Colonial  Chad,  1960-85,  "Journal  of  African  Studies,  13,  No.  3, 
1986,  102-10. 

Banque  des  Etats  de  l'Afrique  Centrale.  Etudes  et  Statistiques 
[Yaounde,  Cameroon],  No.  128,  January  1986,  3-14. 

Banque  des  Etats  de  l'Afrique  Centrale.  Etudes  et  Statistiques 
[Yaounde,  Cameroon],  No.  120,  March  1985,  55-98. 

Bouquet,  Christian.  Tchad:  La genese  d'un  conflit.  Paris:  L'Harmat- 
tan,  1982. 

Brandily,  M.  "Le  Tchad  face  nord,  1978-1979,"  Politique  africaine 

[Paris],  No.  16,  December  1984,  45-65. 
Buijtenhuijs,  Robert.  "Le  Frolinat  a  l'epreuve  du  pouvoir,"  Poli- 
tique africaine  [Paris],  No.  16,  December  1984,  15-29. 
Cabot,  Jean,  and  Christian  Bouquet.  Le  Tchad:  Que  sais-je?  Ven- 

dome:  Presses  Universitaires  de  France,  1978. 
Caprile,  J. P.  L'homme  et  le  milieu,  aspects  du  developpement  au  Tchad. 

N'Djamena,  Chad:  Annales  de  l'Universite  du  Tchad,  1975. 
Chad.  Ministry  of  Planning  and  Reconstruction.  Tchad:  Relance 

economique  en  chijfres.  N'Djamena,  Chad:  1983. 
 .  Ministry  of  State  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development. 

Bilan  programme  des  productions  vegetates  pluviales  et  irriguees  du  Tchad. 

N'Djamena,  Chad:  1984. 
"Chad. ' '  Pages  350-69  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1988.  London: 

Europa,  1987. 

"Chad."  Pages  B201-12  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contemporary 
Record,  1985-1986.  New  York:  Africana,  1987. 

"Chad— Country  Report,"  Courier  [Brussels],  No.  102,  1987, 
36-43. 

Chapelle,  Jean.  Le peuple  tchadien:  Ses  racines  et  sa  vie  quotidienne.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1980. 

Cornu,  A.  Les  ressources  en  proteines  au  Tchad:  Disponibilites  et  orienta- 
tions nouvelles.  N'Djamena,  Chad:  Centre  ORSTOM  de 
N'Djamena,  1975. 

Fieldhouse,  D.K.  "The  Economics  of  French  Empire,"  Journal  of 
African  History  [London],  No.  27,  1986,  169-72. 

France.  Institut  d'elevage  et  de  medicine  veterinaire  des  pays 
tropicaux.  Pdturages  du  Batha.  Paris:  1975. 

 .  Pdturages  du  Kanem.  Paris:  1975. 


226 


Bibliography 


Gatta,  Gali  Ngothe.  Tchad:  Guerre  civile  et  desagregation  de  Vetat.  Paris: 
Presence  africaine,  1985. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Annual  Report  on  Exchange  Arrange- 
ments and  Exchange  Restrictions,  1987.  Washington:  1987. 

 .  Balance  of  Payments  Yearbook,  36,  Pt.  1.  Washington:  1985. 

 .  Direction  of  Trade  Statistics  Yearbook,  1986.  Washington:  1987. 

 International  Financial  Statistics.  Washington:  February  1986. 

 International  Financial  Statistics.  Washington:  June  1987. 

Kelley,  Michael  P.  A  State  in  Disarray:  Conditions  of  Chad's  Survival. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 

Lanne,  Bernard.  "Le  sud,  l'etat,  et  la  revolution,"  Politique  afri- 
caine [Paris],  No.  16,  December  1984,  30-44. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development.  Geo- 
graphic Distribution  of  Financial  Flows  to  Developing  Countries,  1982- 
85.  Paris:  1987. 

Sttirzinger,  Ulrich.  "Au  Tchad:  Coton  et  developpement,"  Revue 

tiers-monde  [Paris],  24,  No.  95,  July-September  1983,  643-52. 
Tobias,  C.  Utilisation  du  sol  et  possibilites  d' irrigation  dans  la  region 

de  N'Djamena.  (Report  No.  13.)  N'Djamena,  Chad:  Centre 

ORSTOM  de  N'Djamena,  1976. 
United  Nations.  Department  of  International  Economic  and  Social 

Affairs.  Handbook  of  International  Trade  and  Development  Statistics, 

Supplement  1986.  New  York:  1987. 
 Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Country  Tables,  1987: 

Basic  Data  on  the  Agriculture  Sector.  Rome:  1987. 
 Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Food  and  Agriculture 

Organization  Yearbook.  Rome:  1985. 
 Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Yearbook  of  Fishery 

Statistics,  1985.  61.  Rome:  1987. 
 Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Yearbook  of  Forest 

Products,  1974-85.  Rome:  1986. 
 International  Labour  Office.  Economically  Active  Population: 

Estimates  and  Projections,  1950-2025,  Geneva:  1986. 
United  States.  Agency  for  International  Development.  Annual  Budget 

Submission,  FY  1986:  Chad.  Washington:  1984. 
 Annual  Budget  Submission,  FY  1987:  Chad.  Washington: 

1985. 

 Annual  Budget  Submission,  FY  1989:  Chad.  Washington: 

1987. 

 Chad:  Country  Development  Strategy  Statement,  FY  1986. 

Washington:  1984. 
 Famine  Early  Warning  System  Country  Report:  Chad.  (Report 

No.  12.)  Washington:  1987. 


227 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


World  Bank.  Chad:  Economic  Situation  and  Priorities.  (Report  No. 

6785-CH.)  Washington:  1987. 
 World  Debt  Tables:  External  Debt  of  Developing  Countries, 

1986-87.  Washington:  1987. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Economic  Digest  [London]; 
Bulletin  de  lAfrique  noire  [Paris];  Economie  developpement  [N'Djamena, 
Chad];  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Cameroon,  CAR, 
Chad  [London];  and  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneens  [Paris].) 


Chapter  4 

Aurillac,  Michel.  "France-Tchad:  L'Afrique  au  coeur,"  Politique 

internationale  [Paris],  No.  39,  Spring  1988,  157-63. 
Azevedo,  Mario  J.  "The  Post-Ahidjo  Era  in  Cameroon,"  Current 

History,  86,  No.  520,  May  1987,  217-20,  229-30. 
Azevedo,  Mario  J.,  and  Gwendolyn  Prater.  "Foreign  Assistance 

and  Dependence:  Post-Colonial  Chad,  1960-1985,"  Journal  of 

African  Studies,  13,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  102-10. 
Azonga,  Tikum  Mbah.  "Back  to  Square  One?"  West  Africa  [Lon- 
don], No.  3689,  April  25,  1988,  730. 
 "A  New  Dimension,"  West  Africa  [London],  No.  3655, 

August  31,  1987,  1678-79. 
Bach,  David.  "Le  Nigeria  et  le  Tchad,"  Politique  africaine  [Paris], 

No.  16,  December  1984,  125-28. 
Buijtenhuijs,  Robert.  "L'Art  de  menager  la  chevre  et  le  chou:  La 

politique  tchadienne  de  Francois  Mitterrand,"  Politique  africaine 

[Paris],  No.  16,  December  1984,  86-101. 
 Le  Frolinat  et  les  revokes  populaires  du  Tchad,  1965-1976.  The 

Hague:  Mouton,  1978. 
"Chad."  Africa  Economic  Digest  [London],  9,  No.  23,  June  17,  1988, 

10. 

"Chad."  Pages  B201-12  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contemporary 
Record,  1985-1986,  New  York:  Africana,  1987. 

"Chad:  Carrot  and  Stick,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  28,  No. 
17,  August  17,  1987,  5-6. 

"Chad:  Habre  and  the  Hadjerai,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  29, 
No.  2,  January  22,  1988,  7. 

"Chad:  Out  with  the  New,  In  with  the  Old,"  New  African  [Lon- 
don], No.  227,  August  1986,  26. 

"Chad:  The  Last  Round,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  28,  No.  4, 
February  18,  1987,  1-2. 


228 


Bibliography 


Clements,  John.  Clements'  Encyclopedia  of  World  Governments,  7. 
Dallas:  Political  Research,  1986. 

Daddieh,  Cyril  Kofie,  and  Timothy  M.  Shaw.  '  'The  Political  Econ- 
omy of  Decision-Making  in  African  Foreign  Policy."  Pages 
61-85  in  Bahgat  Korany  (ed.),  How  Foreign  Policy  Decisions  Are 
Made  in  the  Third  World.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1986. 

Decalo,  Samuel.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad.  (2d  ed.)  Metuchen, 
New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1987. 

Diallo,  Siradiou.  "Tchad:  Houphouet  s'en  mele,"  Jeune  Afrique 
[Paris],  No.  1382,  July  1,  1987,  28-32. 

Diamond,  Larry,  Juan  J.  Linz,  and  Seymour  Martin  Lipset. 
Democracy  in  Developing  Countries,  2:  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Lynne  Rienner,  1988. 

Doornbos,  P.  "La  revolution  derapee,"  Politique  africaine  [Paris], 
No.  7,  September  1982,  5-13. 

Doucet,  Lyse.  "Trying  to  Put  the  Pieces  Together  Again  .  .  .," 
West  Africa  [London],  No.  3638,  May  4,  1987,  862-64. 

El-Kikhia,  Mansour  O.  "Chad:  The  Same  Old  Story,"  Journal 
of  African  Studies,  10,  No.  4,  Winter  1983-84,  127-35. 

Foltz,  William  J.  Chad's  Third  Republic:  Strengths,  Problems,  and  Pros- 
pects. (CSIS  Africa  Notes,  No.  77.)  Washington:  Center  for  Stra- 
tegic and  International  Studies,  1987. 

Gatta,  Gali  Ngothe.  Tchad:  Guerre  civile  et  desagregation  de  I'etat.  Paris: 
Presence  africaine,  1985. 

Gerard,  Alain.  "Nimeiry  face  aux  crises  tchadiennes,"  Politique 
africaine  [Paris],  No.  16,  December  1984,  118-24. 

Gibour,  Jean.  "Le  conflit  du  Tchad,"  Defense  nationale  [Paris],  June 
1985,  127-38. 

Hoche,  Christian.  "Tchad:  L'Allie  dechaine,"  L'Express  [Paris], 

September  18,  1987,  16-17. 
Jackson,  Robert  H.,  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg.  Personal  Rule  in  Black 

Africa.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1982. 
James,  Franziska.  "Habre's  Hour  of  Glory,"  Africa  Report,  32, 

No.  5,  September-October  1987,  20-23. 
"Le  jardin  prive  du  'camarade  president',"  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris], 

No.  1367,  March  18,  1987,  28-29. 
Kelley,  Michael  P.  A  State  in  Disarray:  Conditions  of  Chad's  Survival. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 
Lafaye,  Jean-Jacques.  "Consolider  la  victoire  (Entretien  avec  le 

President  Hissene  Habre),"  Politique  internationale  [Paris],  No.  35, 

Spring  1987,  7-19. 
Lanne,  Bernard.  "Les  causes  profondes  de  la  crise  tchadienne," 

L ' Afrique  et  I'Asie  modernes  [Paris],  No.  140,  Spring  1984,  3-14. 


229 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


 .  *  'Chad— Recent  History."  Pages  350-63  in  Africa  South 

of  the  Sahara,  1988.  London:  Europa,  1987. 

 .  "Quinze  ans  d'ouvrages  politiques  sur  le  Tchad,"  Afrique 

contemporaine  [Paris],  No.  144,  October-December  1987,  37-47. 

 Tchad- Libye:  La  querelle  desfrontieres.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

Lemarchard,  Rene.  "Chad:  The  Misadventures  of  the  North- 
South  Dialectic,"  African  Studies  Review,  29,  No.  3,  1986,  27-41. 

 "Chad:  The  Road  to  Partition,"  Current  History,  83,  No. 

491,  March  1984,  113-16,  132. 

 .  "The  Crisis  in  Chad."  Pages  239-56  in  Gerald  J.  Bender, 

James  S.  Coleman,  and  Richard  L.  Sklar  (eds.),  African  Crisis 
Areas  and  U.S.  Foreign  Policy.  Berkeley:  University  of  California 
Press,  1985. 

 "Republic  of  Chad."  Pages  184-88  in  George  E.  Delvry 

(ed.),  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems  and  Parties,  1 .  (2d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

LeVine,  Victor  T.  "African  Patrimonial  Regimes  in  Compara- 
tive Perspective,  "Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London]  ,18, 
No.  4,  1980,  657-73. 

"Libya/Chad:  A  Fragile  Peace,"  Africa  Confidential  [London],  28, 
No.  19,  September  23,  1987,  2-4. 

Michaud,  Paul.  "French  Africa  Policy:  Continuity  with  Change," 
New  African  [London],  No.  227,  August  1986,  18-19. 

Nelson,  Harold  (ed.).  Libya:  A  Country  Study.  Washington:  Ameri- 
can University,  1979. 

 Sudan:  A  Country  Study.  Washington:  GPO,  1982. 

Neuman,  Stephanie  G.  "Arms,  Aid,  and  the  Superpowers,"  For- 
eign Affairs,  66,  No.  5,  Summer  1988,  1044-66. 

Ngansop,  Guyjeremie.  Tchad:  Vingt  ans  de  crise.  Paris:  L'Harmat- 
tan,  1986. 

"OAU  Summit  Conference — 'Col.  Gaddafy's  Initiative',"  African 
Research  Bulletin  [Exeter,  Devon,  United  Kingdom],  25,  No.  5, 
June  15,  1988,  8865. 

Oded,  Arye  (ed.).  Africa  and  the  Middle  East  Conflict.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 

Olufemi,  Kola.  "Chad:  From  Civil  Strife  to  Big  Power  Rivalry," 
India  Quarterly  [New  Delhi],  41,  July-December  1985,  376-89. 

Piro,  Timothy  J.  "France."  Pages  226-49  in  Bernard  Reich  (ed.), 
The  Powers  in  the  Middle  East,  New  York:  Praeger,  1987. 

Qadhafi,  Muammar.  "Qadhafi  Versus  Christianity  in  Africa:  Colo- 
nel Muammar  Qadhafi' s  Speech  in  Kigali,  Rwanda,  as  Broad- 
cast by  Radio  Tripoli  on  May  17,  1985,  at  the  Opening  of  the 
Muslim  Center."  Pages  227-30  in  Arye  Oded  (ed.),  Africa  and 
the  Middle  East  Conflict.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 


230 


Bibliography 


Robinson,  Pearl  T.  4 'Playing  the  Arab  Card:  Niger  and  Chad's 
Ambivalent  Relations  with  Libya."  Pages  171-84  in  Bruce  E. 
Arlinghaus  (ed.),  African  Security  Issues:  Sovereignty,  Stability,  and 
Solidarity,  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Soudan,  Francois,  and  Jean-Marc  Zaidi.  "Tchad:  Habre  et  la 
France,"  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris],  1385,  July  22,  1987,  22-26. 

Tarantino,  Mark.  "Chad."  Pages  i-xvi,  1-12  in  Albert  P.  Blaustein 
and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.),  Constitutions  of  the  Countries  of  the 
World,  3.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1983. 

Thompson,  Virginia  M.,  and  Richard  Adloff.  Conflict  in  Chad. 
Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1981. 

"  'We  May  Be  at  War,  But  We  Are  Still  Trying  to  Improve  Our 
Standard  of  Living'.  An  Interview  with  President  Hissene 
Habre,"  Courier  [Brussels],  No.  102,  March-April  1987,  32-35. 

Whiteman,  Kaye.  "Chad— Down  But  Not  Out,"  West  Africa  [Lon- 
don], No.  3703,  August  1,  1988,  1387-88. 

 "Chad  1987— The  Year  of  Pushing  North,"  West  Africa 

[London],  No.  3673,  January  11,  1988,  34-35. 

Yakpo,  E.K.M.  "Who  Owns  Aouzou?"  West  Africa  [London], 
No.  3694,  May  30,  1988,  964-65. 

Zartman,  I.  William.  "Africa  and  the  West:  The  French  Connec- 
tion." Pages  39-58  in  Bruce  E.  Arlinghaus  (ed.),  African  Security 
Issues:  Sovereignty,  Stability,  and  Solidarity,  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1984. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Economic  Digest  [London]; 
Africa  Report;  African  Research  Bulletin  [Exeter,  Devon,  United  King- 
dom]; Africa  Today;  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report: 
Cameroon,  CAR,  Chad  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information 
Service,  Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia;  Guardian  [London]; 
Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneens  [Paris] ;  Le  Monde  [Paris] ;  New  York 
Times',  Politique  africaine  [Paris];  Politique  internationale  [Paris];  and 
Washington  Post.) 


Chapter  5 

Amnesty  International.  Detentions  and  Arbitrary  Killings  in  the  Republic 
of  Chad,  1982-83.  London:  1983. 

-  Emprisonnements  et  assassinats  politiques  dans  le  sud  du  Tchad, 
aout-septembre  1984.  Paris:  1984. 

Chad.  Kadafi/Tchad:  Ingerence,  agression,  occupation.  Livre  blanc.  N'Dja- 
mena, Chad:  1987. 


231 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


"Chad."  Pages  B357-68  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contemporary 
Record,  1982-1983.  New  York:  Africana,  1984. 

"Chad."  Pages  B348-64  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contemporary 
Record,  1983-1984.  New  York:  Africana,  1985. 

"Chad."  Pages  B125-32  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Contemporary 
Record,  1984-1985.  New  York:  Africana,  1986. 

"Colonel  Spartacus"  (pseud.).  Operation  manta:  Tchad,  1983-84. 
Paris:  Plon,  1985. 

Cowell,  Alan.  "The  Bitter  Life  of  Chad,"  New  York  Times  Maga- 
zine, September  4,  1983,  24,  26,  28-31. 

Decalo,  Samuel.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad.  (2d  ed).  Metuchen, 
New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1987. 

Foltz,  William  J.  Chad's  Third  Republic:  Strengths,  Problems,  and  Pros- 
pects. (CSIS  Africa  Notes,  No.  77.)  Washington:  Center  for  Stra- 
tegic and  International  Studies,  1987. 

Gibour,  Jean.  "Au  Tchad,  trois  mois  pour  reconquerir  le  BET 
(Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti),"  Afrique  defense  [Paris],  No.  113,  August 
1987,  40-47. 

 .  "Le  conflit  du  Tchad,"  Defense  nationale  [Paris],  June  1985, 

127-38. 

Kelley,  Michael  P.  A  State  in  Disarray:  Conditions  of  Chad's  Survival. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 

Laipson,  Ellen.  "Chad  Crisis:  Background  and  U.S.  Policy." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service.)  Wash- 
ington: 1983. 

Lanne,  Bernard.  "Chad — Recent  History."  Pages  353-60  in  Africa 
South  of  the  Sahara,  1987.  London:  Europa,  1986. 

Lemarchand,  Rene.  "Chad:  The  Road  to  Partition,"  Current  His- 
tory, 83,  No.  491,  March  1984,  113-16,  132. 

 .  "Chad:  The  Roots  of  Chaos,"  Current  History,  80, 

No.  470,  December  1981,  414-18,  436-38. 

 .  "The  Crisis  in  Chad."  Pages  239-56  in  Gerald  J.  Bender, 

James  S.  Coleman,  and  Richard  L.  Sklar  (eds.),  African  Crisis 
Areas  and  U.S.  Foreign  Policy.  Berkeley:  University  of  California 
Press,  1985. 

 "Putting  the  Pieces  Back  Together  Again, ' '  Africa  Report, 

29,  No.  6,  November-December  1984,  60-67. 
Matthews,  Lloyd.  "Chad."  Pages  102-104  in  John  Keegan  (ed.), 

World  Armies.  (2d  ed.).  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 
The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988.  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1987. 
Neuberger,  Benyamin.  Involvement,  Invasion,  and  Withdrawal:  Qadhafi's 

Libya  and  Chad,  1969-1981.  (Occasional  Papers,  No.  83.)  Tel  Aviv: 

Tel  Aviv  University,  1982. 


232 


Bibliography 


N'Gangbet,  Michel.  Peut-on  encore  sauver  le  Tchad?  Paris:  Karthala, 
1984. 

Rondos,  Alex.  "Civil  War  and  Foreign  Intervention  in  Chad," 
Current  History,  84,  No.  502,  May  1985,  209-12,  232. 

 .  Why  Chad?  (CSIS  Africa  Notes,  No.  18.)  Washington: 

Center  for  Strategic  and  International  Studies,  1983. 

Sada,  Hugo.  "Habre  cherche  la  guerre  totale,"  Jeune Afrique  [Paris], 
No.  1393,  September  16,  1987,  17-19. 

"Tchad:  Le  face-a-face  franco-libyen."  Pages  228-32  in  L'Annee 
strategique.  Paris:  Editions  maritimes  et  d'outre-mer,  1985. 

"Tchad-Libye:  Labataille  de  Fada,"  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris],  No.  1366, 
March  11,  1987,  10-16. 

Thompson,  Virginia  M.,  and  Richard  Adloff.  Conflict  in  Chad. 
Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1981. 

United  States.  Congress.  97th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representa- 
tives. Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittee  on  Africa. 
Libya-Sudan-Chad  Triangle:  Dilemma  for  United  States  Policy.  (Hear- 
ings held  October  29  and  November  4,  1981.)  Washington: 
GPO,  1982. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1986.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  100th, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs).  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Chad:  U.S. 

Policy.  (GIST  Series).  Washington:  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  The  Libyan 

Problem.  (Special  Report  No.  111.)  Washington:  Department  of 
State,  1983. 

Yost,  David  S.  "French  Policy  in  Chad  and  the  Libyan  Challenge," 
Orbis,  26,  No.  4,  Winter  1983,  965-97. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Afri- 
can Defence  Journal  [Paris];  Africa  Report;  Africa  Research  Bulletin  [Exeter, 
Devon,  United  Kingdom];  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country 
Report:  Cameroon,  CAR,  Chad  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Infor- 
mation Service,  Daily  Report:  Near  East  and  South  Asia;  Freres  d'Armes 
[Paris];  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London];  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris];  Kees- 
ing's  Contemporary  Archives  [London];  Le  Monde  [Paris];  New  York 
Times;  Washington  Post;  and  West  Africa  [London]). 


233 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 

Appendix  B 

Decalo,  Samuel.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Chad.  (2d  ed.)  Metuchen, 

New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1987. 
N'Gangbet,  Michel.  Peut-on  encore  sauver  le  Tchad? 1 P 'aris:  Karthala, 

1984. 

Rondos,  Alex.  Why  Chad?  (CSIS  Africa  Notes,  No.  18.)  Washing- 
ton: Center  for  Strategic  and  International  Studies,  1983. 

Thompson,  Virginia  M.,  and  Richard  Adloff.  Conflict  in  Chad. 
Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1981. 


234 


Glossary 


Aozou  Strip — A  disputed  section  of  northern  Chad,  running  the 
length  of  the  border  with  Libya  and  extending  south  to  a  depth 
of  about  100  kilometers  into  Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture. 
Libya  based  its  claim  to  the  area  on  an  unratified  1935  treaty 
between  France  and  Italy,  the  colonial  powers  of  Chad  and 
Libya,  respectively.  Libya  occupied  some  areas  of  the  strip 
beginning  in  1972  and  remained  there  as  of  1988. 

barrels  per  day  (bpd) — Production  of  crude  oil  and  petroleum 
products  is  frequently  measured  in  barrels  per  day.  A  barrel 
is  a  volume  measure  of  forty-two  United  States  gallons. 

CFA  franc — The  African  Financial  Community  (Communaute 
Financiere  Africaine)  franc,  the  currency  of  the  organization 
of  former  French  colonies,  often  referred  to  as  the  Franc  Zone. 
The  CFA  franc  was  guaranteed  by  the  French  treasury  and 
pegged  to  the  French  franc,  into  which  it  was  freely  converti- 
ble. In  December  1988  the  exchange  rate  was  CFA  F298  to 
US$1. 

French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique  Equatoriale  Francaise — AEF) — 
The  former  colonial  federation  of  areas  that  later  became  the 
independent  states  of  Chad,  Gabon,  Central  African  Repub- 
lic, and  Congo.  A  history  of  French  rule  and  missionary  involve- 
ment forged  organizational  ties  connecting  these  areas.  The 
AEF  was  dissolved  in  1958,  but  upon  gaining  independence 
in  1960,  Chad  joined  former  AEF  members  in  a  multilateral 
military  assistance  agreement  with  France. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 
period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed 
to  be  included  in  the  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated 
and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies  are  included;  when  these  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies 
have  been  eliminated,  the  result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The 
word  gross  indicates  that  deductions  for  depreciation  of  physi- 
cal assets  have  not  been  made.  See  also  gross  national  product. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Gross  domestic  product  (q.  v. )  plus 
the  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  for- 
eign countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measurement  of  the  out- 
put of  goods  and  services  by  an  economy.  It  can  be  calculated 
at  market  prices,  which  include  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 


235 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Because  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  transfer  payments, 
GNP  is  often  calculated  at  factor  cost,  removing  indirect  taxes 
and  subsidies. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabiliz- 
ing international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  busi- 
ness of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members 
(including  industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they 
experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  fre- 
quently carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  eco- 
nomic adjustments  by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are 
developing  countries. 

Lome  Convention — The  first  Lome  Convention  (Lome  I)  came 
into  force  in  1976,  Lome  II  came  into  effect  in  1981,  and  Lome 
III  came  into  force  in  1986.  The  convention  covers  economic 
relations  between  the  members  of  the  European  Economic 
Community  (EEC)  and  their  former  colonies  in  Africa,  the 
Caribbean,  and  the  Pacific  (ACP).  The  convention  allows  most 
ACP  exports  to  enter  the  EEC  duty-free  or  at  special  rates  and, 
among  other  things,  provides  funds  through  the  Stabex  sys- 
tem (q.v.)  to  offset  adverse  fluctuations  in  the  prices  of  ACP 
exports. 

polders — Areas  of  low-lying  land  reclaimed  from  a  sea,  lake,  or 
river  by  the  protection  of  dikes.  In  Chad  polders  have  been 
created  along  the  southeastern  shores  of  Lake  Chad  and  are 
used  for  the  production  of  wheat  and  corn. 

Sahel — The  subarid  climatological  zone  located  south  of  the  Sahara 
Desert  that  stretches  from  east  to  west  across  Africa.  In  Chad 
the  Sahel,  also  called  the  sahelian  zone,  forms  roughly  the  cen- 
tral third  of  the  country  and  supports  subsistence  farming  and 
livestock  raising. 

Stabex  system — A  system  of  export  earnings  stabilization  set  up 
by  the  European  Community  (EC)  in  accordance  with  the  Afri- 
can, Caribbean,  and  Pacific  (ACP)  states.  Under  the  system, 
the  EC  helps  developing  countries  withstand  fluctuations  in  the 
price  of  their  agricultural  products  by  paying  compensation  for 
lost  export  earnings. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  as  its 
primary  purpose  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 


236 


Glossary 


productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  specifically  designed  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less- 
developed  countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers 
of  the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  three 
institutions  are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that 
subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


237 


Index 


Abatcha,  Ibrahim,  20 

Abd  al  Karim,  10 

Abdullah  IV  (Bagirmi),  10 

Abeche,  18,  30,  36,  45,  52,  77,  105,  113, 
117,  119,  150,  192-93,  199 

Abou  Charib  people,  51 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS),  83 

Action  Committee  of  the  Democratic 
Revolutionary  Council  (Comite  d'Ac- 
tion  et  de  Concertation  du  Conseil 
Democratique  Revolutionnaire:  CAC- 
CDR),  152 

Acyl  Ahmat,  30,  153,  161,  191,  195 

Adamawa,  7 

Administrative  Reform  Mission  (Mission 

de  Reforme  Administrative:  MRA),  21 
AEF.  See  French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afri- 

que  Equatoriale  Francaise:  AEF) 
Africa  (see  also  Central,  or  Equatorial, 

Africa;  North  Africa;  Northeast  Africa; 

West  Africa),  4 
African  Democratic  Assembly  (Rassemble- 

ment  Democratique  Africain:  RDA),  15 
African  Financial  Community  franc  (Com- 

munaute  Financiere  Africaine:  CFA), 

124,  160 

Africanization  policy  (see  also  authenticite 
movement),  18,  19,  23 

African  religions  (see  also  animism),  xiii, 
xxi,  66-70 

Afro-Asiatic  language  family,  47,  54-58 

Afro-Malagasy  and  Mauritian  Common 
Organization  (Organisation  Commune 
Africaine,  Malgache,  et  Mauricienne: 
OCAMM),  22 

agriculture  (see  also  cotton  production; 
drought;  food  production;  herding; 
land  reclamation;  Operation  Agricul- 
ture; rainfall),  xiv,  xxi,  42,  51,  52,  53, 
55,  58,  59,  63,  89-90;  areas  under  cul- 
tivation for,  92-98,  102-5;  labor  force 
participation  in,  92 

AID.  See  United  States  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development  (AID) 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome  (AIDS) 

Air  Afrique,  118-19 


air  force,  xvi,  186-87 
airports,  xiv,  1 19 
Air  Sudan,  119 
Air  Tchad,  119 
air  transport,  118-19,  164 
Air  Transport  Union  (Union  des  Trans- 
ports Aeriens:  UTA),  119 
Al  Azhar  University,  72 
Algeria,  140,  166,  167,  171,  176 
Algiers,  20 
Alifa  of  Mao,  49 
Al  Kufrah,  10 

Alooma,  Idris  (king).  See  Aluma,  Idris 
(king) 

Aluma,  Idris  (king),  xx,  8-9,  17 
Amnesty  International,  xiv,  204 
Am  Timan,  18,  117 
animism,  67 

ANL.  See  National  Liberation  Army 
(Armee  Nationale  de  Liberation:  ANL) 

Annakaza  people,  48 

Aozou  Strip,  14,  20,  27,  90,  112,  138, 
142,  159,  161,  166,  167,  171,  193,  197 

Aozou  (town),  197 

Arabic  language  (see  also  Chadian  Arabic 
language),  28,  57-58 

Arabic-speaking  groups,  5 

Arab  League.  See  League  of  Arab  States 
(Arab  League) 

Arab  migration,  xx,  6 

Arabs  (see  also  Sahel;  seminomadic  peo- 
ple), xiii,  28,  60,  63-65;  influence  in 
Chad  of,  64-65 

archeological  sites,  4-5 

armed  forces,  xvi,  xxiii 

Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Forces 
Armees  du  Nord:  FAN)  (see  also  Sec- 
ond Liberation  Army  (FAN)),  xv,  xxii, 
21,  27,  28,  30,  144,  154,  175,  177,  180, 
181,  189-91,  192,  206,  219 

armies  of  factional  groups,  171,  174 

army,  national  (see  also  Chadian  Armed 
Forces  (Forces  Armees  Tchadiennes: 
FAT);  Chadian  National  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Nationales  Tchadien- 
nes: FANT)),  178,  180;  after  indepen- 
dence, 171,  176;  consolidation  by  Habre 


239 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


of,  174;  role  in  conflict  with  Libya  of, 
173 

assassination,  23,  24,  137,  145,  177 
Assembly  for  Unity  and  Chadian  Democ- 
racy (Rassemblement  pour  1' Unite  et 
la  Democratic  Tchadienne:  RUDT), 
152 

Assembly  of  the  French  People,  15 
Assembly  of  the  French  Union  (France), 
14 

AST.  See  Chadian  Social  Action  (Action 

Sociale  Tchadienne:  AST) 
Ati,  27,  191 
Atlantic  Ocean,  39 

authenticite  movement,  23,  81,  137,  141, 
145 

Awlad  Sulayman  tribe,  30,  57,  64,  72 


Baele,  49 

Bagirmi  kingdom,  xx,  3,  5,  10-11 

Baguirmi  people  (Barmi),  53 

Bahr  Aouk  River,  38 

Bahr  el  Ghazal  Depression,  37 

Bahr  Salamat  River,  38 

Bahr  Sara  River,  38 

balance  of  payments,  122 

Banda-Ngbaka  language,  59-60 

Bangui,  12,  119 

banking  system,  100,  124-26 

Bank  of  Central  African  States  (Banque 
des  Etats  d'Afrique  Centrale:  BEAC), 
111,  124,  125,  126,  129,  160 

Bardai,  19,  20,  21,  23,  26,  63,  192,  195 

Barma  language,  53 

Barmi  people.  See  Baguirmi  people  (Barmi) 

Batha  Prefecture,  20,  27,  39,  40,  52,  59 

Batha  stream,  37 

battalions,  infantry  (FANT),  xvi,  181 
Battle  of  Kousseri  (1900),  11 
bauxite  deposits,  90,  112 
BdL.  See  Logone  Breweries  (Brasseries  du 

Logone:  BdL) 
BDT.  See  Development  Bank  of  Chad 

(Banque  de  Developpement  du  Tchad: 

BDT) 

BEAC .  See  Bank  of  Central  African  States 
(Banque  des  Etats  d'Afrique  Centrale: 
BEAC) 

beans/legumes,  93 

Belgium,  81 

Benelux  countries,  122 

Benghazi,  10,  113 


Berber  people,  8 

berebere.  See  millet,  or  berebere 

BGT.  See  Soft  Drinks  of  Chad  (Boissons 
Gazeuses  du  Tchad:  BGT) 

BIAO.  See  International  Bank  for  West 
Africa  (Banque  Internationale  pour 
l'Afrique  Occidentale:  BIAO) 

BIAT.  See  International  Bank  of  Africa  in 
Chad  (Banque  Internationale  d'Afrique 
au  Tchad:  BIAT) 

BICIT.  See  International  Bank  for  Com- 
merce and  Industry  in  Chad  (Banque 
Internationale  pour  le  Commerce  et 
lTndustrie  du  Tchad:  BICIT) 

Bideyat.  See  Baele 

Bideyat  people,  49 

Biltine  Prefecture,  12,  27,  40,  49-50,  73, 

112,  191 
Bir  Korba,  196,  197 
birthrate,  43 

black-market  activity,  120,  122 
"Black  Sheep  Plot,"  23 
Bodele  region,  36 
Boganda,  Barthelemy,  16 
Bokassa,  Jean-Bedel,  165 
Bokoro,  117 
Bongor,  104,  117 
Bono,  Outel,  23 

Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti  Prefecture,  12, 
18,  22,  40,  176-77,  189,  191,  193-94, 
197,  199 

Borkou  region,  5,  22,  48 

Borno  Empire  (see  also  Kanem-Borno),  xx, 
3,  7-8,  9-10,  11,  49,  120 

Borno  people,  8 

Bororo  people,  59 

Boua  language,  54 

boundaries  (see  also  Aozou  Strip;  Lake 

Chad),  14,  35-36 
Bousso  region,  96 
Brazzaville,  xx,  12,  77,  119 
bridges,  113,  115,  117 
brotherhoods  of  Islam,  11,  15,  64,  72,  144 
BTCD.  See  Chadian  Credit  and  Deposit 

Bank  (Banque  Tchadienne  de  Credit  et 

de  Depot:  BTCD) 
budget,  domestic,  126-28 
Buduma-Kouri  language,  55 
Buduma  people,  55 
Bulala  people,  7,  8,  52 
Bureau  of  Documentation  and  Security 

(Direction  de  la  Documentation  et  de 

la  Securite:  DDS),  201 


240 


Index 


CAA.  See  Debt  Amortization  Fund 
(Caisse  Autonome  d'Amortissement: 
CAA) 

CAC-CDR.  See  Action  Committee  of  the 
Democratic  Revolutionary  Council 
(Comite  d'Action  et  de  Concertation  du 
Conseil  Democratique  Revolution- 
naire:  CAC-CDR) 

Cairo,  7,  72 

Cameroon,  xiv,  7,  30,  36,  37,  39,  44,  49, 
58,  59,  75,  77,  91,  97,  103,  106,  108, 
113,  115,  117,  120,  122,  124,  166;  rela- 
tions of  Chad  with,  164,  173 

Cameroon  Airlines,  119 

cattle  and  beef  production,  90 

CCCE.  See  Central  Fund  for  Economic 
Cooperation  (Caisse  Centrale  de  Coop- 
eration Economique:  CCCE) 

CCFAN.  See  Command  Council  of  the 
Armed  Forces  of  the  North  (Conseil  de 
Commandement  des  Forces  Armees  du 
Nord:  CCFAN) 

CDR.  See  Democratic  Revolutionary 
Council  (Conseil  Democratique  Revolu- 
tionnaire:  CDR) 

cease-fire  (1987),  197 

Center  for  the  Modernization  of  Animal 
Production  (Centre  de  Modernisation 
des  Productions  Animales:  CMPA), 
107 

Central,  or  Equatorial,  Africa,  xx,  36, 
164,  172 

Central  African  Republic,  11,  36,  37,  39, 
44,  52,  59,  73,  106,  115,  120,  124,  128, 
198;  relations  of  Chad  with,  164-65, 
173 

Central  Fund  for  Economic  Cooperation 
(Caisse  Centrale  de  Cooperation  Eco- 
nomique: CCCE),  100,  124 

Central  Saharan  languages,  48 

cereal  production,  102 

CFA  franc,  22,  100-101 

Chadian  Animal  Resources  Improvement 
Company  (Societe  Tchadienne  d'Ex- 
ploitation  des  Ressources  Animales: 
SOTERA),  107 

Chadian  Arabic  language,  57 

Chadian  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees 
Tchadiennes:  FAT),  xxiii,  27,  28,  152, 
175,  177,  178,  180,  189-91,  192 

Chadian  Credit  and  Deposit  Bank  (Ban- 
que  Tchadienne  de  Credit  et  de  Depot: 
BTCD),  111,  124 


Chadian  Democratic  Union  (Union 
Democratique  Tchadienne:  UDT),  15, 
139,  140 

Chadian  National  Armed  Forces  (Forces 
Armees  Nationales  Tchadiennes: 
FANT),  xxii,  xxiii,  171-72,  175,  179, 
192,  195-97,  204-6,  219;  organization 
and  strength  of,  179-87 

Chadian  Press  Agency  (Agence  Tcha- 
dienne de  Presse),  158 

Chadian  Progressive  Party  (Parti  Progres- 
siste  Tchadien:  PPT),  15,  16,  18,  21, 
23,  139 

Chadian  Social  Action  (Action  Sociale 
Tchadienne:  AST),  15,  140,  202 

Chadian  Textile  Company  (Societe  Tcha- 
dienne de  Textile:  STT),  109,  110,  128 

Chadian  Water  and  Electricity  Company 
(Societe  Tchadienne  d'Eau  et  d'Elec- 
tricite:  STEE),  112-13 

Chadic  languages,  54-57 

Chapelle,  Jean,  61-62,  72 

Charfarda  people,  48 

Chari-Baguirmi  Prefecture,  15,  20,  40, 
49,  53,  59,  96 

Chari-Nile  language,  52 

Chari  River,  xiv,  11,  37-39,  44,  54-55, 
93,  113,  115 

Chevron,  112 

Christianity  {see  also  Protestantism; 
Roman  Catholicism),  xiii,  xxi,  66-67, 
73-76,  165 

Cigarette  Factory  of  Chad  (Manufacture 
des  Cigarettes  du  Tchad:  MCT),  109, 
110,  128 

civil  service  employees,  127,  188 

Civil  War,  xv,  79,  82,  84,  89,  91,  98,  106, 
109,  125,  138,  178,  183,  188 

clan  identity,  61-62 

climate,  xiii,  39-42,  90,  92 

CMPA.  See  Center  for  the  Modernization 
of  Animal  Production  (Centre  de  Mod- 
ernisation des  Productions  Animales: 
CMPA) 

CNC.  51a  National  Advisory  Council 
(Conseil  National  Consultatif:  CNC) 

codas,  152,  180,  183,  194-95,  205 

College  d'Enseignement  Technique,  82 

colonial  policy.  See  France 

Command  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces 
of  the  North  (Conseil  de  Commande- 
ment des  Forces  Armees  du  Nord: 
CCFAN),  xv,  26-27,  146,  154,  189 


241 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


communications  {see  also  mass  media; 

telecommunications),  91,  119,  158 
communism,  159 

conflict,  civil,  4,  19,  27-28,  44,  46,  63, 

95,  106,  124,  126,  178 
Congo,  11,  81,  124,  184,  198;  relations 

of  Chad  with,  164 
Congo-Kordofanian  language  family,  47, 

58-60 
Conoco,  91,  112 

constitution  {see  also  Fundamental  Charter 
(1978);  Fundamental  Law  (1982)),  of 
1959-1960,  145;  1962  revisions,  145;  of 
1965,  145;  1973  authenticite  movement 
incorporated,  145;  in  1978,  145;  of 
France  (1946),  14,  140;  of  French  Fifth 
Republic,  16 

Cooperation  and  Aid  Fund  (Fonds  d'Aide 
et  de  la  Cooperation:  FAC),  100 

Cooperative  of  Chadian  Transporters 
(Cooperative  des  Transporteurs  Tcha- 
diens:  CTT),  118 

corn  production,  94,  103-5 

Cote  d'lvoire,  81,  97,  184 

Cotonfran  {see  also  Cotontchad),  96 

Cotontchad,  98,  100-102,  109-10,  118, 
124-27,  128,  132,  204 

Cotton  and  Textile  Research  Institute 
(Institut  de  Recherche  sur  le  Coton  et 
les  Textiles:  IRCT),  100,  128 

cotton  industry  {see  also  Emergency  Cot- 
ton Fund),  xxi,  12-13,  24,  52,  89,  90, 
91,  92,  95-100,  110,  115,  117,  125, 
126-27,  130-31;  in  Sudan,  163 

Cotton  Price  Stabilization  Board  (Caisse 
de  Stabilisation  des  Prix  du  Coton: 
CSPC),  98,  100,  101-2,  128 

Council  of  Ministers,  xv,  146-48,  178 

Council  of  the  Republic  (France),  14 

coup  d'etat  (1975),  xxii,  4,  24,  137,  145, 
162,  163,  177,  202 

court  of  appeals,  150 

Court  of  State  Security,  149 

courts  {see  also  criminal  courts;  customary 
courts;  military  courts),  149 

credit  access,  124-26,  129 

Credit  Lyonnais,  124 

criminal  code,  203 

criminal  courts,  150,  201 

crop  rotation,  94 

CSM.  See  Supreme  Military  Council 

(Conseil  Superieur  Militaire:  CSM) 
CSPC.  See  Cotton  Price  Stabilization 


Board  (Caisse  de  Stabilisation  des  Prix 
du  Coton:  CSPC) 

CSR.  See  Supreme  Council  of  the  Revo- 
lution (Conseil  Supreme  de  la  Revolu- 
tion: CSR) 

currency,  xiv;  CFA  franc,  22,  160;  Franc 
Zone,  124;  French  franc,  124,  160 

customary  courts,  203 

Customs  Union  of  Central  African  States 
(Union  Douaniere  des  Etats  d'Afrique 
Centrale:  UDEAC),  115 

Cyrenaica,  11 


Dabbalemi,  Dunama  (king),  xx,  7,  17 
Dadjo  language,  51,  52 
Dandi,  117 
Dar  al  Kuti,  52 

Darfur  Province,  xx,  10-11,  163 
dates,  93 

Daza  people,  xiv,  48,  60,  62,  179 

debt,  external,  129-30 

Debt  Amortization  Fund  (Caisse  Auto- 
nome  d'Amortissement:  CAA),  102, 
129-30 

Deby,  Idris,  xiv,  182 

defense  spending,  xvi,  91,  127,  187 

de  Gaulle,  Charles,  14,  139 

Democratic  and  Popular  National  Assem- 
bly (Rassemblement  National  Demo- 
cratique  et  Populaire:  RNDP),  152 

Democratic  Front  of  Chad  (Front 
Democratique  du  Tchad:  FDT),  152 

Democratic  Revolutionary  Council  (Con- 
seil Democratique  Revolutionnaire: 
CDR),  xxiv,  30,  153,  161,  174,  191, 
192,  195,  220 

derde  {see  also  Kichidemi,  Oueddei  {derde)), 
63 

desertification,  108 

Development  Bank  of  Chad  (Banque  de 
Developpement  du  Tchad:  BDT),  124, 
125 

Development  Office  for  Sategui  Deressia 
(Office  de  Mise  en  Valeur  de  Sategui- 
Deressia:  OMVSD),  103 

diseases,  83 

Djagada  people,  48 

Djamouss,  Hassane,  xiv,  156,  179,  181, 
183 

Djogo,  Negue,  152,  192 
Djourab  region,  36,  37 
Doba,  75,  91,  112 


242 


Index 


donor  support.  See  economic  assistance 
Douala,  91,  113,  115,  119 
Doumro,  Jacques,  22 
Doza  people,  48 

drought,  xxi,  22,  24,  39,  46,  89,  102,  106, 
107,  113,  118,  121,  128,  130,  132,  166 
Dunamami,  Ali  (king),  8 

East  Germany.  ^Germany,  Democratic 

Republic 
Eboue,  Felix,  14,  139 
Ecole  Mohamed  Illech,  77 
Ecole  Nationale  d' Administration,  79 
Ecole  Nationale  des  Travaux  Publics,  79 
Ecole  Normale  Superieure,  82 
economic  assistance,  81,  90,  91,  92,  101, 

110,  115,  117,  121,  127,  130-33,  158, 

166;  from  France,  152 
economic  crisis,  22,  24 
EDF.  See  European  Development  Fund 

(EDF) 

education,  xiii,  35;  assistance  for,  81, 
131-32;  effect  of  Civil  War  on,  79; 
Islamic  or  Quranic,  72,  77;  by  mission- 
aries, 74,  76-77;  primary  and  second- 
ary schools  for,  77,  79-81;  quality  of, 
78;  study  locations  for  higher,  81-82; 
vocational,  82 

EEC.  See  European  Economic  Commu- 
nity (EEC) 

Egypt,  8,  120 

electoral  rights,  14,  16 

electricity,  112-13 

Emergency  Cotton  Program,  101,  127, 
128,  132 

emigration  (see  also  labor  force;  refugees), 

43-44 
Emi  Koussi,  37 
empires,  3,  5 
Ennedi  Plateau,  36,  37 
Ennedi  Prefecture,  49 
Ennedi  region,  4-5,  10,  22,  48 
Equatorial  Guinea,  124 
Erdiha  people,  48 
Ethiopia,  166 

ethnic  groups  (see  also  factionalism),  xiii, 

45-48;  rivalry  among,  174 
Europe,  Western,  44,  122 
European  Development  Fund  (EDF), 

100,  101,  132 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC), 

91,  92,  100,  101,  115,  130 


Experimental  Sectors  for  Agricultural 
Modernization  (Secteurs  Experimentaux 
de  Modernisation  Agricole:  SEMAA), 
103 

exports,  xiv;  of  agricultural  products,  120; 
of  cattle  and  meat,  106,  120-21;  of  cot- 
ton, 9,  89,  90,  91,  106,  115,  117, 
120-21;  to  Nigeria,  162 

Exxon,  91,  112 

FAC.  See  Cooperation  and  Aid  Fund 
(Fonds  d'Aide  et  de  la  Cooperation: 
FAC) 

factionalism:  armies  of,  171,  174;  in  poli- 
tics, xxi,  4,  150-57;  in  society,  xix 
Fada,  20,  195,  196 
family  structure,  Toubou  people,  61 
famine,  xxi,  46,  89 

FAN.  See  Armed  Forces  of  the  North 
(Forces  Armees  du  Nord:  FAN) 

FANT.  See  Chadian  National  Armed 
Forces  (Forces  Armees  Nationales 
Tchadiennes:  FANT) 

FAO.  See  Food  and  Agriculture  Organi- 
zation (FAO);  Western  Armed  Forces 
(Forces  Armees  Occidentales:  FAO) 

FAP.  See  People's  Armed  Forces  (Forces 
Armees  Populaires:  FAP) 

Farcha  Slaughterhouse  (Abattoir  Frigori- 
fique  de  Farcha),  109 

farmers.  See  agriculture;  labor  force 

FAT.  See  Chadian  Armed  Forces  (Forces 
Armees  Tchadiennes:  FAT) 

FayaLargeau,  12,  20,  26,  27,  36,  40,  192, 
193,  195,  197,  199 

FDAR.  See  Rural  Action  and  Develop- 
ment Fund  (Fonds  de  Developpement 
et  de  1' Action  Rurale:  FDAR) 

FDT.  See  Democratic  Front  of  Chad 
(Front  Democratique  du  Tchad:  FDT) 

Fezzan  region,  7,  9,  14,  175 

Fianga,  59 

fighting  units  (FANT),  182 
financial  crisis.  See  economic  crisis 
FIR.  See  Fund  for  Rural  Intervention 

(Fonds  dTntervention  Rurale:  FIR) 
First  Liberation  Army  (of  FROLINAT), 

22,  189,  192,  220 
fiscal  policy  (see  also  revenues,  govern- 
ment;   spending,    government;  tax 
policy),  91,  126 
fishing  industry,  92,  93,  107-8 


243 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Foccart,  Jacques,  23 

Fodio,  Usman  dan,  9 

Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
(FAO),  103 

food  production,  102-6 

foreign  assistance.  See  economic  assis- 
tance; military  assistance 

foreign  policy,  158-67;  of  United  States 
in  Africa,  166 

forestry,  108-9 

Fort-Archambault.  See  Sahr  (Fort- 
Archambault) 

Fort-Lamy.  See  N'Djamena  (Fort-Lamy) 

France  {see  also  French  Equatorial  Africa), 
10,  26,  120,  164,  184;  Chadians'  par- 
ticipation in  army  of,  175-76;  colonial 
rule  of,  xx,  3-4,  11-15,  95-96,  120, 
139;  company  personnel  and  advisers 
from,  14,  109,  141,  142;  economic 
assistance  by,  81,  91,  92,  101,  130,  132, 
152,  158;  intervention  in  Chad  by,  138; 
loans  by,  129;  military  assistance  from, 
xxii-xxiii,  145, 171,  173,  177,  183,  185, 
186,  188-89,  193-95,  196,  198;  mili- 
tary role  in  Chad  for,  198-200;  rela- 
tions with  Chad  of,  xv,  159-60,164, 
175;  relations  with  Nigeria  of,  162;  role 
after  independence  of,  21;  subjugation 
and  rule  by,  3-4,  1 1 ;  support  for  Habre 
of,  151;  as  trading  partner,  121-22; 
troop  withdrawal  by  (1984),  194 

Franc  Zone,  124 

Free  French,  14,  139,  175;  military  cam- 
paign, 175 
French   Equatorial   Africa  (Afrique 
Equatoriale  Francaise:  AEF),  3,  11-12, 
14,  16,  73,  77,  96,  139,  140,  175,  201 
French  General  Council,  14,  140 
French  language,  28,  77,  78-79 
French  Textile  Development  Company 
(Compagnie  Francaise  pour  le  Deve- 
loppement  des  Textiles:  CFDT),  100 
FROLINAT.  See  National  Liberation 
Front  of  Chad  (Front  de  Liberation 
Nationale  du  Tchad:  FROLINAT) 
Fulani  language,  59 
Fulani  people,  xx,  9,  56,  58-59 
Fundamental  Charter  (1978),  27 
Fundamental  Law  (1982),   xv,  xxiii, 

145-48,  178 
Fund  for  Rural  Intervention  (Fonds  d 'In- 
tervention Rurale:  FIR),  125 


Gabon,  11,  16,  124,  166,  173,  198 

Gaeda  people,  48 

Galmaye,  Youssef,  202 

Ganebang,  Zamtato,  179 

Garoua,  115 

Gelendeng,  115,  117 

geographic  location,  xix,  3,  35-36,  89, 

164,  172 
geography,  xiii 
Germans,  103 

Germany,  Democratic  Republic,  191 

Germany,  Federal  Republic,  121-22, 
130,  132 

Giscard  d'Estaing,  160 

Gorou,  Ahmed,  179 

Goukouni  Oueddei,  20-21,  26-30,  48, 
63,  130,  137-38,  142-44;  accord  with 
Qadhafi  of,  191-92;  army  of  (FAP), 
180-81,  189;  forms  ANL  (1982),  192; 
in  GUNT  government,  xxii,  190-91, 
195;  as  Habre  ally  and  rival,  151-53, 
171-72,  174,  178,  188;  relations  with 
Qadhafi  of,  161,  173 

Gounou  Gaya,  56 

government  intervention,  92,  95,  96,  98, 

100-102 
Goz  Beida,  51 

Grands  Moulins  du  Tchad,  103 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  xiv,  89, 

109,  126,  128 
gross  national  product  (GNP),  xxi,  89 
Guera  Massif,  36,  37,  206 
Guera  Prefecture,  12,  20,  40,  49,  52,  53, 

54,  56,  60,  65,  74,  96,  174,  188,  206 
guerrilla  warfare.  See  insurgency 
GUNT.  See  Transitional  Government 

of  National   Unity  (Gouvernement 

d'Union  Nationale  de  Transition: 

GUNT) 

Gwaranga,  Abd  ar  Rahman,  10 

Habre,  Hissein,  4,  20,  26-30,  48,  63,  84, 
137,  138-39,  142-45,  146,  164;  admin- 
istration of,  204-6;  consolidation  of 
control  by,  xxiii,  151-52,  154-55,  171, 
174,  175;  foreign  policy  of,  159;  in 
GUNT  government,  xxii,  190;  insur- 
gent troops  (FAN)  of,  177-78,  180, 
188,  189-94;  political  support  of,  154; 
relations  with  Goukouni,  153,  171;  re- 
lations with  Sudan  of,  163,  174;  rela- 
tions with  United  States  of,  166-67; 


244 


Index 


relations  with  Zaire  of,  164;  strategy  of, 
155-57 

Hajerai  people,  53,  56-57,  65,  174,  206 

Hassuna  tribe,  57,  64 

Hausa  language,  54 

Hausa  people,  8,  9 

health  (see  also  disease),  xiii,  44 

health  care  delivery,  35,  83-84,  131-32 

health  service  for  animals,  107,  166 

herders,  40,  48-49,  57,  58,  59,  61-65,  90, 

92-94,  103,  106,  163 
hospitals,  83 
Humai,  Mai  (king),  6-7 
human  rights,  xiv,  203,  204 


IAF.  See  Inter- African  Force  (IAF) 

IDA.  See  International  Development 
Agency  (IDA);  United  Nations  (UN) 

Idrismi,  Umar  (king),  7 

IEMVT.  See  Livestock  and  Veterinary 
Medicine  Institute  of  Chad  (Institut 
d'Elevage  et  de  Medecine  Veterinaire 
du  Tchad:  IEMVT) 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF) 

immigration,  xix,  5,  43 

imports,  xiv,  9,  115,  121,  122;  depen- 
dence on,  xxi;  from  France,  United 
States  and  Cameroon,  164 

independence  (1960),  4,  16,  17,  89 

Indochina,  171,  176 

Indus  River,  4 

Industrial  Agricultural  Equipment  Com- 
pany (Societe  Industrielle  de  Materiel 
Agricole  du  Tchad:  SIMAT),  109,  110, 
125 

industrial  sector  (see  also  agriculture;  cot- 
ton industry;  manufacturing;  mining), 
xiv,  90,  109-10 

infantry  (FANT),  xvi,  181 

infrastructure,  xxi,  89,  '91,  102,  106, 
113-18,  132 

inland  waterways,  xiv 

INSAH.  See  Sahel  Institute  (Institut  du 
Sahel:  INSAH) 

insurgency,  26-27,  29,  142,  176,  177, 
188,  205 

Inter-African  Force  (IAF),  xxii,  30,  144, 
164,  192,  200 

International  Bank  for  Africa  in  Chad 
(Banque  Internationale  pour  l'Afrique 
au  Tchad:  BIAT),  111,  124 


International  Bank  for  Commerce  and 
Industry  for  Chad  (Banque  Interna- 
tionale pour  le  Commerce  et  1 'Indus- 
trie du  Tchad:  BICIT),  124 

International  Bank  for  West  Africa  (Ban- 
que Internationale  pour  l'Afrique 
Occidental :  BIAO),  124 

International  Development  Agency 
(IDA),  130,  132 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  92, 
129,  132 

international  organizations,  xv-xvi 

International  Telecommunications  Com- 
pany of  Chad  (Societe  de  Telecommu- 
nications Internationales  du  Tchad: 
STIT),  119 

investment,  foreign,  92,  111 

Investment  Code  (1963),  92 

IRCT.  See  Cotton  and  Textile  Research 
Institute  (Institut  de  Recherche  sur  le 
Coton  et  les  Textiles:  IRCT) 

Islam,  xx,  xxi,  10,  59,  64,  66-67,  70-73; 
penetration  of,  6-7;  proposed  role  of, 
167 

Islamic  law  (sharia),  8,  150 

Islamic  Legion  (Libya),  172,  174,  191-92 

Islamic  University  of  Al  Bayda,  63 

Israel,  22,  167,  176 

Italy:  economic  assistance  by,  130,  132; 

French  border  agreement  with,  14,  138; 

troops  in  Libya  (World  War  II),  175 
Itno,  Ibrahim  Mahamat,  xiv 

judicial  system,  xv,  21,  149-50,  201, 

202-4 
Juhayna  tribe,  57,  64 

Kalait,  192,  196 

Kamadja  people,  48 

Kamouge,  Wadel  Abdelkader,  28-29, 

152,  161,  190-91,  202 
Kanem,  Muhammed  al,  9 
Kanem,  Umar,  9-10 
Kanem-Borno  Empire,  xx,  3,  5,  8-10,  11, 

49,  63-64 
Kanembu  language,  49 
Kanembu  people,  6,  7,  8,  9,  60 
Kanem  Empire,  xx,  5-7,  120 
Kanem  Prefecture,  12,  15,  37,  40,  48,  49, 

57,  59,  60,  62,  111,  132 
Kano,  7,  28,  143,  190 


245 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Kanuri  language,  8,  49 

Kanuri  people,  8,  56 

kashimbet,  61,  64 

Kecherda,  48 

Kelo,  75,  103 

Kenga  language,  53,  56 

Khartoum,  20,  27,  72,  75,  119 

Khatir,  Mahamat  Senoussi,  152 

Khoisan  language  family,  5,  47 

Kichidemi,  Oueddei  (derde),  19,  20-21, 

26,  63 
kingdoms,  3,  5,  60,  120 
Kokorda  people,  48 
koros,  37 

Kotiga,  Alphonse,  152,  195 
Kotoko  language,  55-56 
Kotoko  people,  8,  55-56 
Kou,  75 

Koulamallah,  Ahmed,  15 

Koundoul,  183 

Kouri  people,  55 

Kousseri,  11,  113,  115,  117,  164 

Kreda  people,  48,  62 

Kukawa,  9 

Kuwait,  129 


labor  force:  civil  service  employees,  127, 
188;  migration  of,  43-44,  51,  163;  par- 
ticipation in,  92 

Lac  Prefecture,  40,  49,  132 

Lagos,  28,  113,  115,  143,  190 

Lagos  Accord  (1979),  28,  30 

Lai,  103,  104 

Lake  Chad,  xix,  5,  7,  8,  9,  36-37,  39,  42, 
48,  52,  55,  90,  91,  93,  94,  97,  103, 
107-8,  111,  112,  117,  162;  boundary 
with  Nigeria,  173 

Lake  Chad  Basin,  36-37,  39,  48,  64,  72 

Lake  Fitri,  7,  37,  39,  52,  93 

Lake  Iro,  39,  60 

Lake  Mamoun,  60 

land:  ownership  of,  94-95;  reclamation 
of,  93 

land  routes  (see  also  trade  routes),  113 

language,  xiii,  5,  8,  45;  Arabic,  28;  Cen- 
tral Saharan,  48;  families,  35,  47-60; 
major  groups  for,  47-48;  replacement 
of  French,  28 

League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League),  167 

Lebanon,  167 

Leclerc,  Jacques,  14,  175 


legal  customs:  among  Sara  people,  65-66; 

among  Toubou  peole,  62 
legal  system,  149-50,  201 
Lere,  58,  115,  117 

Libya  (see  also  Qadhafi,  Muammar  al),  4, 
7,  11,  14,  20,  22,  36,  48,  57,  113,  120, 
130,  137,  140,  142,  144;  claims  to 
Aozou  Strip  by,  xv,  xxiii,  159,  161, 
166,  167;  intervention  in  Chadian  con- 
flict, 26-30,  143,  193-94;  Italian  troops 
in  (World  War  II),  175;  military  assis- 
tance treaty  with  GUNT  (1980),  29, 
191,  198;  occupation  of  Chad  by,  xv, 
195-97;  relations  with  Chad  of,  xv, 
xxii,  159-61,  166-67,  172-73,  189; 
relations  with  Nigeria  of,  162;  relations 
with  Soviet  Union  of,  166;  relations 
with  Sudan  of,  163 

Libyan-Chad  boundary.  See  Aozou  Strip; 
Libya;  Qadhafi,  Muammar  al 

Lisette,  Gabriel,  15-16,  18,  139-40 

literacy  rate,  xiii,  78 

livestock,  xxi,  90,  92,  93-94  (see  also 
herders) 

Livestock  and  Veterinary  Medicine  Insti- 
tute of  Chad  (Institut  d'Elevage  et  de 
Medecine  Veterinaire  du  Tchad: 
IEMVT),  107 

locusts,  102 

Logone  Breweries  (Brasseries  du  Logone: 

BdL),  109,  110,  128 
Logone  Occidental  Prefecture,  42,  54,  73, 

75,  76,  96 
Logone  Oriental  Prefecture,  42,  58,  59, 

73,  75,  76,  96 
Logone  River,  xiv,  37-39,  54-55,  93, 

103,  108 
lot  cadre  (enabling  act),  16,  140 
Lol,  Mahmat  Shawa,  28,  162 
Lome  Convention,  91,  100 
Lycee  Ahmad  Mangue,  78 
Lycee  Franco- Arabe,  77 
lycees  techniques  industriels,  82 

Maatan  as  Sarra,  197 
Maba  language,  51-52 
Maba  people,  10 
Mabang  language,  51-52 
macroeconomic  policy,  91,  92 
Magoumi  clan,  6 
mai,  6,  7,  8,  9 
Maiduguri,  xiv,  113,  115 


246 


Index 


Maldoun,  Boda,  153,  206 
Mali,  97 

Malloum,  Felix,  4,  22,  23,  24,  26-28, 
137,  142-43,  163;  administration  of, 
xxii,  175,  177,  189-90,  199,  202;  oppo- 
sition to  Habre  by,  151;  relations  with 
United  States  of,  166 

Mandara  Mountains,  36 

Mangalme,  20 

manufacturing  sector,  90,  109-11 
Marari  people,  49,  51 
Maroua,  117 

marriage:  among  Arabs,  64-65;  among 

Toubou  people,  62 
Marxist  philosophy,  15 
Massaguet,  115 
Massa  language,  56 
Massalat  language,  52 
Massalit  language,  52 
Massenya,  10,  53 
mass  media,  158 
Mauritania,  128 

Mayo-Kebbi  Prefecture,  42,  55,  56,  58, 
59,  60,  76,  96,  97-98,  117,  132 

Mayo-Kebbi  River,  115 

Mbaissanabe,  Mornadji,  187 

MCT.  See  Cigarette  Factory  of  Chad 
(Manufacture  des  Cigarettes  du  Tchad: 
MCT) 

Mecca,  7,  8,  11 

medical  centers,  83 

medical  personnel,  83-84 

Mediterranean  Sea,  9,  36,  113 

Middle  East,  44,  77,  122,  167 

military  assistance,  xvi,  29,  145,  166,  183, 
185,  186,  189,  191,  193-96,  198;  multi- 
lateral agreement  (1960)  with  France 
for,  198 

military  courts,  149 

military  equipment/ weapons  (FANT), 
181,  184-86 

military  service,  181 

military  spending.  See  defense  spending 

military  training,  183-84 

military  units,  xvi 

militias  {see  also   armies   of  factional 

groups),  29 
millet,  or  berebere,  51,  52,  59,  93,  94,  102-3 
Mimi  language,  51 
mineral  deposits,  90,  111-12,  159 
mining,  xiv,  61 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Rural  Devel- 
opment, 98,  125 


Ministry  of  Education,  79 
Ministry  of  Finance,  126 
Ministry  of  Interior,  202 
Ministry  of  Planning  and  Reconstruction, 
43,  79 

Ministry  of  Posts  and  Telecommunica- 
tions, 119 

Ministry  of  Public  Works,  Housing,  and 
Urban  Development,  117 

Mitterrand,  Francois,  144,  160,  194,  197 

MNRCS.  See  National  Movement  for  the 
Cultural  and  Social  Revolution  (Mouve- 
ment  National  pour  la  Revolution  Cul- 
turelle  et  Sociale:  MNRCS) 

Mobutu  Sese  Seko,  141,  164 

monetary  policy  (see  also  balance  of  pay- 
ments; budget,  domestic),  126 

Mongo,  117,  183 

mortality  rate,  43,  445 

Mortcha  region,  40 

MOSANAT.  See  Movement  for  the 
National  Salvation  of  Chad  (Mouve- 
ment  pour  le  Salut  National  du  Tchad: 
MOSANAT) 

Moubi  people,  57,  65 

Moundang  people,  60 

Moundang-Toupouri-Mboum  language, 
58 

Moundou,  28,  42,  44,  45,  57,  75,  76,  82, 
113,  117,  119,  150 

mountains,  36-37 

Moussoro,  183,  199 

Movement  for  the  National  Salvation  of 
Chad  (Mouvement  pour  le  Salut  Na- 
tional du  Tchad:  MOSANAT),  153, 
174-75,  206 

Moyen-Chari  Prefecture,  16,  28,  42,  54, 
56,  60,  73,  76,  96 

Moyen-Congo,  11 

Mozambique,  166 

MPLT.  See  Popular  Movement  for  the 
Liberation  of  Chad  (Mouvement  Popu- 
laire  pour  la  Liberation  du  Tchad: 
MPLT) 

MPR.  See  People's  Revolutionary  Militia 
(Milice  Populaire  de  la  Revolution: 
MPR) 

MRA.  See  Administrative  Reform  Mis- 
sion (Mission  Reform  e  Administrative: 
MRA) 

Muhammad,  70-71 

municipalities,  148-49 


247 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


Muslims,  xiii,  3,  9,  15,  19,  21,  28,  55, 
59,  70-73,  165,  172,  188,  190 

Mussolini,  Benito,  75 

Mutual  Defense  Assistance  Agreement 
(1983),  200 

Nairobi,  30 

National  Advisory  Council  (Conseil 
National  Consultatif:  CNC),  xv,  146, 
148,  155 

National  and  Nomad  Guard,  20,  176-77 
National  Assembly  (Chad),  141 
National  Assembly  (France),  14,  15,  16 
National  Gendarmerie,  176,  177,  201-2 
National   Institute  of  Economic  and 

Statistical  Studies  (Institut  National  des 

Etudes  Statistiques  et  Economiques: 

INSEE),  42 
National  Liberation  Army  (Armee  Na- 

tionale  de  Liberation:  ANL),  xxi-xxii, 

192,  220 

National  Liberation  Front  of  Chad  (Front 
de  Liberation  Nationale  du  Tchad: 
FROLINAT),  xxiii,  4,  20-21,  22, 
26-27,  30,  63,  137,  140,  142-43,  151, 
153,  154,  163,  166,  188-90 

National  Military  Police  (Police  Militaire 
Nationale:  PMN),  xvi,  201 

National  Movement  for  the  Cultural  and 
Social  Revolution  (Mouvement  Na- 
tional pour  la  Revolution  Culturelle  et 
Sociale:  MNRCS),  23 

National  Office  of  Roads  (Office  National 
des  Routes:  OFNAR),  117 

National  Office  of  Rural  Development 
(Office  National  de  Developpement 
Rural:  ONDR),  95,  98,  100,  101,  102, 
125,  128 

National  Quarry  Office  (Office  National 
des  Carriers:  OFNC),  117 

National  School  of  Public  Health  and  So- 
cial Work  (Ecole  Nationale  de  Sante 
Publique  et  de  Service  Social:  ENSPSS), 
82 

National  Security  Police  (Surete),  xvi,  201 

National  Sugar  Company  of  Chad  (Soci- 
ete  Nationale  Sucriere  du  Tchad: 
SONASUT),  109,  110,  128 

National  Trading  Company  of  Chad 
(Societe  Nationale  de  Commercialisa- 
tion du  Tchad:  SONACOT),  105 

National  Union  for  Independence  and 


Revolution  (Union  Nationale  pour  l'ln- 
dependance  et  la  Revolution:  UNIR), 
xv,  xxiii,  137,  139,  146,  154-55,  158, 
187 

National  Union  Government  (1978),  27 

National  Union  of  Chadian  Workers 
(Union  Nationale  de  Travailleurs  du 
Tchad:  UNTT),  26 

natron.  See  sodium  carbonate 

N'Djamena  (Fort-Lamy),  11,  12,  18,  19, 
22,  24,  29,  30,  36,  39,  44,  45,  57,  63, 
74,  76,  79,  82,  91,  93,  103,  111,  112, 
113,  115,  117,  119,  124,  143,  144,  150, 
164,  178,  183;  military  base  near, 
198-99;  occupation  of,  188,  190 

Neolithic  culture,  5 

Netherlands,  101 

Ngaoundere,  xiv,  113,  115 

Ngazargamu,  8,  9 

Niellim,  117 

Niger,  8,  36,  48,  49,  108,  165,  173 

Nigeria,  xiv,  9,  28,  36,  44,  49,  77,  106, 
108,  111,  115,  120,  122,  138,  165,  166; 
relations  with  Chad  and  Libya  of,  159, 
162-63,  173,  190;  relations  with 
Qadhafi  of,  173-74;  relations  with 
Zaire  of,  164 

Nile  Valley,  5,  36,  37 

Nilo-Saharan  language  family  {see  also 
Central  Saharan  languages),  47-54 

Njimi,  7,  8 

Noarma  people,  48 

nomadic  societies  (see  also  Daza  people; 
seminomadic  people;  Toubou  people), 
xx,  xxi,  3,  35,  40,  45,  48,  49,  59, 
61-63,  94,  189 

North  Africa,  9,  36,  122,  167 

Northeast  Africa,  36 

Numayri,  Jaafar  an,  163 

Nyala,  20 


oases,  9,  40,  48,  61,  62,  94,  95,  103 
OAU.  See  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU) 

OCAMM.  See  Afro-Malagasy  and  Mau- 
ritian Common  Organization  (Organi- 
sation Commune  Africaine,  Malgache, 
et  Mauricienne:  OCAMM) 

officer  corps,  24,  181-82 

oil  industry  (see  also  Petroleum  Prod- 
ucts Fund  (Fonds  d 'Intervention  des 


248 


Index 


Produits  Petroliers:  FIPP)),  xiv,  91, 

112,  122,  128-29,  162-63 
oil  refinery  (proposed),  112 
oils  (edible)  industry,  98,  105,  110 
ONDR.  See  National  Office  of  Rural 

Development  (Office  National  de  Deve- 

loppement  Rural:  ONDR) 
Operation  Agriculture,  24 
Operation  Epervier  (Sparrowhawk),  195, 

199-200 

Operation  Manta  (Stingray),  193,  199 
Organization  for  the  Development  of  the 

Lake  (Societe  pour  le  Developpement  du 

Lac:  SODELAC),  103 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU), 

xxii,  29,  30,  144,  147,  166,  190,  192, 

197 

Ottoman  Empire,  8 

Ouaddaian  language,  49,  51 

Ouaddaian  people,  15 

Ouaddai  Highlands,  36,  37 

Ouaddai  Prefecture,  12,  20,  29,  40,  42, 

48,  49,  51,  52,  60,  74,  132 
Ouadi  Doum,  195,  196,  197 
Oumar,  Acheikh  ibn,  xxiv,  174,  195 
Oum  Chalouba,  192 
Ounianga  Kebir,  20 
Ounia  people,  48 
ownership,  Toubou  people,  62 


Pala,  76 

Paleochadian  Sea,  54 

parastatal  enterprises,  92,  95,  98,  109,  127 

paratroop  company,  176 

Paris,  xiv,  14,  23,  119 

pastoralism  {see  also  herdsmen),  89,  90 

Peace  Corps,  166 

peacekeeping  force  {see  also  Inter- African 
Force  (IAF)),  xxii,  29,  30,  190,  192 

peanut  production,  52,  93,  94,  105 

People's  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees 
Populaires:  FAP),  27,  28,  152,  153,  179, 
180,  190-91,  192,  195,  221 

People's  Revolutionary  Militia  (Milice 
Populaire  de  la  Revolution:  MPR),  155 

Petroleum  Products  Fund  (Fonds  d' Inter- 
vention des  Produits  Petroliers:  FIPP), 
128-29 

PMT.   See  Territorial  Military  Police 

(Police  Militaire  Territoriale:  PMT) 
polders,  55,  93,  94,  103 
police  services,  201-2 


political  activity  {see  also  factionalism),  xx, 
4,  15-16,  20;  descent  groups  in,  150 
political  reform,  21-22 
polyclinics,  83 

Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of 
Chad  (Mouvement  Populaire  pour  la 
Liberation  du  Tchad:  MPLT),  153 

population,  xiii,  42-43;  density  and  com- 
position, 44-45 

Population  Reference  Bureau  (PRB),  43, 
44-45 

port  facilities,  xiv,  91,  113 
Port  Harcourt,  113,  115 
Port  Sudan,  113 
Portugal,  122 
postal  service,  119 

PPT.  See  Chadian  Progressive  Party  (Parti 
Progressiste  Tchadien:  PPT) 

PRB.  See  Population  Reference  Bureau 
(PRB) 

prefectures,  148 

Presidential  Guard  (Securite  Presidentielle: 
SP),  xvi,  xxiii-xxiv,  157,  172,  179,  181, 
182,  183,  201,  206 
presidential  responsibilities,  146,  178 
prices:  for  cotton,  100-101;  for  oil  imports, 
128 

print  media,  158 
prisoners  of  war,  204 
prisons,  204 

private-sector  enterprises,  109,  118,  124 
Progressive  Socialist  Party  (Lebanon),  167 
public  utilities,  112 


Qadhafi,  Muammar  al,  xxiv,  28,  29-30, 
161,  163,  164;  accord  with  Goukouni  of, 
191-92;  in  Aozou  Strip  conflict,  167, 
172-73,  188;  attitude  of  United  States 
toward,  166;  goals  of,  xxii,  138,  144, 
165,  172;  relations  with  France  of,  194; 
support  in  Chad  from,  22,  142 

Quran,  72 


Rabih  Fadlallah,  10,  11 
radio,  119,  158 
Radio  Bardai,  158 

Radiodiffusion   Nationale  Tchadienne 

(RNT),  158 
Rahmane,  Aboubakar  Abdel,  153 
railroads/rail  links,  xiv,  91,  113,  115 
rainfall,  39,  40,  42,  46,  90,  92,  94,  102 


249 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


razzias,  11,  12,  46,  52,  139 

RDA.  See  African  Democratic  Assembly 
(Rassemblement  Democratique  Afri- 
cain:  RDA) 

rebellion,  4,  20,  174-75,  188-89,  194-95 

reconstruction  financing,  128 

Red  Cross,  204 

Red  Sea,  36,  113 

refugees,  43,  44,  163,  165,  190-91 

regional  divisions:  among  Toubou  peo- 
ple, 62;  for  government  administration, 
148-49 

religion  (see  also  African  religions;  Chris- 
tianity; Islam),  xiii,  35,  36,  66-76; 
among  Sara  and  Moundang  people,  68 

revenues,  government,  126-28,  187;  to 
service  external  debt,  129;  sources  of, 
128 

rice  production,  94,  103-4 

Rig  Rig,  91,  112 

riots,  18,  19 

river  system,  xiv,  107-8 

RNDP.  See  Democratic  and  Popular 
National  Assembly  (Rassemblement 
National  Democratique  et  Populaire: 
RNDP) 

road  system,  xiv,  xxi,  91,  115,  166 

Roman  Catholicism,  75-76 

RUDT.  See  Assembly  for  Unity  and  Chad- 
ian  Democracy  (Rassemblement  pour 
1' Unite  et  la  Democratic  Tchadienne: 
RUDT) 

Runga  language,  52 

Rural  Action  and  Development  Fund 
(Fonds  de  Developpement  et  de  1' Ac- 
tion Rurale:  FDAR),  125 


Sabha,  27 

Sabun  (sultan),  xx,  10 
Sahara  Desert,  5,  35,  36,  37,  39,  48 
Saharan  region,  40,  83-84,  90,  93-94 
Sahel,  xxi,  35,  39,  40,  42,  48,  50,  57,  59, 

63-65,  108,  159 
sahelian  zone,  xiii,  5,  15,  39,  40,  45, 

83-84,  90,  92-93,  94,  95,  96,  102,  105, 

106,  117 

Sahel   Institute   (Institut   du  Sahel: 

INSAH),  43,  44,  45 
Salamat  Prefecture,  12,  20,  40,  42,  51, 

60,  76,  96,  106 
salt  mining,  61 


Sanusiyya  Islamic  brotherhood,  11,  64, 

72,  144 
Sao,  55 

Sara-Bongo-Baguirmi  language,  52-54 
Sara  language,  54 

Sara  people,  xiii,  xxi,  12,  13,  23,  28, 

65-66,  141,  171,  175,  180 
Sarh  (Fort-Archambault),  23,  28,  39,  44, 

45,  54,  57,  75,  76,  78,  82,  113,  117, 

119,  150 
Sayfawa  dynasty,  6-7,  8,  9 
Sayf  ibn  Dhi  Yazan,  6 
seasons,  39-40 

Second  Liberation  Army  (of  FROLI- 
NAT),  xxii,  22-23,  63,  140,  189,  221; 
later  known  as  FAN,  22-23,  189 

security,  internal,  xvi 

Sedigi,  112 

self-rule  law,  16 

seminomadic  people,  xxi,  60-61,  63-65 
semisedentary  people.  See  agriculture; 

Arabs;  herdsmen;  sedentary  people; 

seminomadic  people 
Senegal,  81,  128,  166,  184 
Senegal  River  Valley,  59 
Senoussi,  Hadjero,  153 
sharia  (Islamic  law),  8,  150 
Sharif,  Muhammad,  xx,  10-11 
Shell  Oil  Company,  112 
Shuwa  Arabs,  9 

Siddick,  Abba,  20-21,  22,  151,  161,  189 
SIM  AT.   See  Industrial  Agricultural 
Equipment  Company  (Societe  Indus- 
trielle  de  Materiel  Agricole  du  Tchad: 
SIMAT) 

slave  trade  (see  also  razzias),  xix,  xx,  3,  9, 

11,  12,  46,  52,  139 
smuggling,  120 
soap  industry,  98 
Socialist  Party  (France),  144,  160 
social  structure,  60-66 
SODELAC.  See  Organization  for  the 

Development  of  the  Lake  (Societe  pour 

le  Developpement  du  Lac:  SODELAC) 
sodium  carbonate  (natron),   61,  90, 

111-12 

Soft  Drinks  of  Chad  (Boissons  Gazeuses 
du  Tchad:  BGT),  109,  110-11 

SONASUT.  See  National  Sugar  Com- 
pany of  Chad  (Societe  Nationale 
Sucriere  du  Tchad:  SONASUT) 

sorghum,  52,  94,  102-3 


250 


Index 


SOTERA.  See  Chadian  Animal  Re- 
sources Improvement  Company  (Soci- 
ete  Tchadienne  d' Exploitation  des 
Ressources  Animales:  SOTERA) 

soudanian  zone,  xiii,  xxi,  35,  40,  42,  48, 
61,  90,  92,  95,  96,  100,  102,  105,  106, 
109,  112,  117 

Soviet  Union,  166;  role  in  Libyan - 
Chadian  conflict  of,  191 

Spain,  121-22 

Special  Rapid  Intervention  Brigade,  201 
spending,  government  (see  also  defense 

spending),  91,  126-28 
Stabex  system,  100,  101 
State  Control  (Controle  d'Etat),  126 
state-owned  enterprises  (see  also  parasta- 

tal  enterprises),  103,  105,  109 
states  (in  Chad),  5;  formation  of,  6 
strikes,  22 

STT.  See  Chadian  Textile  Company 
(Societe  Tchadienne  de  Textile:  STT) 

subsidies:  for  cotton  production,  100,  101; 
from  France,  187 

Sudan,  10,  20,  29,  36,  40,  44,  50,  57,  77, 
113,  120,  138;  relations  with  Chad  of, 
162-63,  174;  relations  with  Libya  of, 
174 

sultanates,  60 
Sungor  people,  51 

Supreme  Council  of  the  Revolution  (Con- 
seil  Supreme  de  la  Revolution:  CSR), 
152 

Supreme  Court,  149 

Supreme  Military  Council  (Conseil  Supe- 

rieur  Militaire:  CSM),  24,  26,  142 
Surete.   See  National   Security  Police 

(Surete) 


Tama  language,  49,  51 
Tama  people,  51 

Tandjile  Prefecture,  42,  56,  73,  96 
tax  policy,  126-28,  129,  187 
Tchad  Utile,  Le  (Useful  Chad),  xxi,  90 
Teda-Daza  (Toubou)  language  (see  also 

Toubou  people),  5,  48 
Teda  people,  48,  62 
telecommunications  system,  xiv,  119,  158 
telephone  service.  See  telecommunications 
television,  158 

Territorial  Assembly,  140,  145 
Territorial   Military   Police  (Police 


Militaire  Territoriale:  PMT),  xvi,  201, 
202 

textile  industry,  98,  100,  109,  110 
Third  Liberation  Army  (of  FROLINAT), 
28,  221 

Tibesti  Mountains,  36,  37,  48,  63,  90, 
112 

Tibesti  region,  5,  21,  63,  195 
Tibesti  Subprefecture,  62,  63 
Tijaniyya  Islamic  brotherhood,  15,  72 
tin  deposits,  112 
Togo,  30 
Tomagra  clan,  63 

Tombalbaye,  Francois,  15,  16,  20,  81, 
139;  administration  of,  xxi-xxii,  4, 
17-19,  21,  22-24,  137,  140-41,  151, 
189,  198;  coup  against,  24,  162,  163, 
177,  199,  202;  relations  with  Central 
African  Republic  of,  165 

topography,  xiii 

Toubou  people  (see  also  nomadic  societies), 
xiii,  xxi,  8,  19,  48,  60,  72,  165,  189 
trade  policy,  128,  162,  164 
trade  routes,  xix,  3,  5,  9,  164-65 
transhumance,  106 

Transitional  Government  of  National 
Unity  (Gouvernement  d' Union  Na- 
tionale  de  Transition:  GUNT),  xxii, 
28-29,  30,  138,  143,  152-53,  161, 
190-95,  204-6,  221-22 
transportation,  89,  91,  117-18 
transport  carriers  (see  also  air  transport), 
118 

Tripoli,  8,  20,  22 

tsetse  fly,  5 

Tuareg  people,  8,  165 

tuber  production,  105-6 

tungsten  deposits,  112 

Tunisia,  175 

Tunjur  people,  10,  51 

Ubangi-Chari  territory,  11,  12,  16,  73,  75 

Ubangi-Zaire  river  system,  37 

UDT.  See  Chadian  Democratic  Union 

(Union   Democratique  Tchadienne: 

UDT) 

UNIR.  See  National  Union  for  Indepen- 
dence and  Revolution  (Union  Nationale 
pour  l'lndependance  et  la  Revolution: 
UNIR) 


251 


Chad:  A  Country  Study 


United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP)  Emergency  Food  programme, 
118 

United  Nations  (UN),  130,  147;  Eco- 
nomic Commission  for  Africa,  43; 
International  Development  Agency 
(IDA),  117,  132 

United  States  {see  also  Mutual  Defense 
Assistance  Agreement  (1983)),  4,  91, 
130,  132,  138,  145,  164,  184;  Depart- 
ment of  State,  203,  204;  economic 
assistance  from,  166,  200;  military 
assistance  by,  xv,  166,  173,  193,  196, 
198,  200-201;  relations  with  Chad  of, 
166-67;  relations  with  Libya  of,  200; 
support  for  Habre  by,  151 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID),  117 

Universite  du  Tchad,  78,  79,  81-82 

universities,  63,  72 

UNTT.  See  National  Union  of  Chadian 
Workers  (Union  Nationale  de  Travail- 
leurs  du  Tchad:  UNTT) 

uranium  deposits,  90,  112 

Vatican,  75 
Vichy  France,  14 
Volcan  Forces,  192,  222 


Wadai  (sultanate),  xx,  3,  5,  7,  9,  10-11, 

51-52,  63-64,  120 
wadis,  95,  111 


War  a,  10 

water  supply,  37-39,  112-13 
wells,  9 

West  Africa,  9,  36,  59,  162,  172 
Western  Armed  Forces  (Forces  Armees 

Occidentales:  FAO),  153,  192,  222 
West  Germany.  See  Germany,  Federal 

Republic 

wheat   {see  also   Grands   Moulins  du 

Tchad),  94,  103 
White  Nile  River,  52 
women  in  military,  181 
wood,  108-9 

World  Bank,  89,  90,  91,  92,  101,  112, 

125,  129,  130,  131,  132-33 
World  Food  Programme  (WFP),  130 
World  Health  Organization,  83 
World  War  II:  role  of  Chad  in,  175-76 
Wour,  195 


Yacine,  Abdelkader,  153 

Yacoub,  Adoum,  179 

Yao  state,  52 

Yaounde,  164 

Yaya,  Oki  Dagache,  179 

yondo  initiation  rites,  23,  69-70,  81,  141 


Zaghawa  people,  xxiv,  6-7,  49 
Zaire,  164,  173,  176,  184,  193 
Zaire  River  system,  36 
Zouar,  21,  195 


252 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-98 

Albania 

550-87 

Greece 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-59 

Angola 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-82 

Guyana 

550-169 

Australia 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-176 

Austria 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-21 

India 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-68 

Iran 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-61 

Burma 

550-25 

Israel 

550-37 

Burundi/Rwanda 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic/Haiti 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-167 

Finland 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-46 

Panama 

253 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-42 

Peru 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-162 

Poland 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-160 

Romania 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

550-53 

Thailand 

254 


PIN:  006971-000 


