area  handbook  series 

Cote  d 'I voire 

a  country  study 


Cote  d'l voire 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Robert  E.  Handloff 
Research  Completed 
November  1988 


On  the  cover:  Detail  of  hand-painted  Senoufo  tapestry  from 
northern  Cote  d'lvoire 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1991. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Cote  d'lvoire  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library 
of  Congress  ;  edited  by  Robert  E.  Handloff. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  Handbook  Series)  (DA  pam  ;  550-69) 

"Replaces  the  second  edition  of  the  original  Area  handbook  for 
the  Ivory  Coast,  which  was  reprinted  in  1973  with  an  added 
summary  of  events  covering  the  period  January  1963  to  December 
1972"— Pref. 

"Research  completed  November  1988." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp. 223-241)  and  index. 

Supt.  of  Docs.  no.  :  D  101.22:550-69/990 

1.  Ivory  Coast.    I.  Handloff,  Robert  Earl,  1942-  . 

II.  Roberts,  Thomas  Duval,  Area  handbook  for  Ivory  Coast. 

III.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  IV.  Series. 
V.  Series:  DA  pam  ;  550-69. 

DT545.22.C66  1990  90-5878 
966.6805— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-69 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  T.D. 
Roberts,  Donald  M.  Bouton,  Irving  Kaplan,  Barbara  Lent,  Charles 
Townsend,  and  Neda  A.  Walpole,  who  coauthored  the  first  edi- 
tion of  Ivory  Coast:  A  Country  Study,  the  predecessor  of  the  current 
volume.  The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  Roxanne  Donahey,  William 
Kallon,  Vincent  Kern,  Gilda  Nimer,  and  Benjamin  Nimer,  who 
updated  the  original  volume  with  a  new  section  entided  "Sum- 
mary of  Events:  January  1963-December  1972."  Their  collective 
work  provided  the  organizational  outline  for  the  present  volume 
as  well  as  substantial  portions  of  the  text.  The  authors  are  grateful 
to  those  individuals  in  various  public  and  private  agencies  who  con- 
tributed photographs,  research  materials,  and  invaluable  time  and 
expertise  to  the  production  of  this  book. 

The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  those  who  contributed  directly 
to  the  preparation  of  the  text.  Thomas  Collelo,  Richard  F.  Nyrop, 
and  Sandra  W.  Meditz  reviewed  all  drafts  and  provided  guidance; 
Martha  E.  Hopkins  and  Marilyn  Majeska  managed  editing  and 
production;  Mimi  Cantwell,  Sharon  Costello,  Vincent  Ercolano, 
Ruth  Nieland,  and  Sharon  Schultz  edited  the  chapters;  Beverly 
Wolpert  performed  the  final  prepublication  review;  and  Shirley  Kes- 
sel  prepared  the  index.  Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text  were 
editorial  assistants  Barbara  Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson.  Malinda 
B.  Neale  of  the  Library  of  Congress  Composing  Unit  prepared  the 
camera-ready  copy,  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto  reviewed  draft  maps  from  which  he,  Kimberly 
A.  Lord,  and  Harriett  R.  Blood  prepared  the  final  maps.  Addi- 
tional thanks  are  due  also  to  Kimberly  A.  Lord  for  designing  the 
artwork  for  the  cover  and  the  illustrations  on  the  title  page  of  each 
chapter  and,  with  David  P.  Cabitto  and  Sandra  K.  Ferrell,  prepar- 
ing charts  and  graphs.  Arvies  J.  Staton  provided  information  on 
military  ranks,  uniforms,  and  insignia. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments    v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction                                   ,   xxiii 

Chapter  1.   Historical  Setting   1 

Rachel  Warner 

PRE-EUROPEAN  PERIOD   5 

ARRIVAL  OF  THE  EUROPEANS   7 

FRENCH  EXPANSION  IN  COTE  DT VOIRE    9 

Local  Resistance  and  Establishment  of 

Protectorates    9 

Repression  and  Conquest    11 

FRENCH  RULE  UNTIL  WORLD  WAR  II   12 

Evolution  of  Colonial  Policy    12 

Colonial  Administration    12 

Economic  Development  and  Social  Change   14 

IMPACT  OF  WORLD  WAR  II    16 

Brazzaville  Conference    16 

French  Union    18 

Regional  Political  Cooperation    20 

TRANSFORMATION  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 

PARTY  OF  COTE  DTVOIRE    21 

REFORM  AND  THE  FRENCH  COMMUNITY   22 

INDEPENDENCE  AND  THE  INSTITUTIONALIZATION 

OF  THE  ONE-PARTY  SYSTEM    23 

INTERNAL  DISSENT  AND  FURTHER 

CONSOLIDATION  OF  POWER    25 

Changes  in  Government  and  Party  Structures    25 

Sources  of  Popular  Discontent   26 

Consolidation  of  Power  in  the  1960s  and  1970s    27 

ECONOMIC  AND  POLITICAL  ISSUES  OF  THE 

LATE  1970s  AND  1980s    30 

Growing  Economic  Problems    30 

Succession  Question    31 

Party  Decentralization    32 


vii 


Discontent  on  Campus    32 

Other  Sources  of  Discontent    33 

Chapter  2.   The  Society  and  Its  Environment    37 

Rita  M.  Byrnes 

PHYSICAL  SETTING    41 

Location  and  Size    41 

Physical  Features   41 

Rivers    44 

Climate    45 

POPULATION    46 

Distribution    47 

Composition    48 

ETHNIC  GROUPS  AND  LANGUAGES    48 

Ethnic  Diversity   48 

Language  Diversity    50 

Lineage  Patterns    51 

East  Atlantic  Cultures    53 

West  Atlantic  Cultures    56 

Mande  Cultures    59 

Voltaic  Cultures    60 

Foreigners   61 

THE  ROLE  OF  RELIGION    64 

Local  Religions    66 

World  Religions    69 

Syncretic  Religions    73 

SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION  AND  SOCIAL  CHANGE    73 

Urban  Society    74 

Elites    76 

The  Role  of  Women    78 

Social  Attitudes    79 

EDUCATION    80 

The  Education  System   81 

Problems  in  Education    85 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   86 

Social  Programs   88 

Social  Problems    88 

Chapter  3.   The  Economy    91 

Robert  E.  Handloff  and  Judith  Timyan 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   94 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    98 

Public  Investment    99 

Budget   100 


Vlll 


Banking  and  Finance   102 

LABOR    105 

Wages  and  Income  Distribution    107 

Labor  Unions    109 

AGRICULTURE    109 

Land  Use    110 

Cocoa   112 

Coffee    112 

Timber    113 

Diversification  Crops    115 

Food  Crops    117 

Animal  Husbandry    120 

Fisheries    120 

MANUFACTURING   121 

ENERGY    123 

Electricity    123 

Other  Energy  Sources    125 

EXTRACTIVE  INDUSTRIES   125 

Petroleum    125 

Natural  Gas   127 

Other  Minerals    127 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  COMMUNICATIONS    128 

Railroads    129 

Roads    130 

Ports  and  Maritime  Shipping    131 

Air  Transport    132 

Telecommunications    133 

FOREIGN  TRADE  AND  COMMERCE    134 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS  AND  FOREIGN 

ASSISTANCE    134 

National  Debt    135 

Foreign  Assistance    137 

FUTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY    138 

Chapter  4.   Government  and  Politics    141 

Robert  E.  Handloff 

FORMAL  POWER    145 

The  Constitution    145 

Civil  Rights   146 

The  Executive    147 

The  National  Assembly    148 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council   149 

Judicial  System    151 

Local  Government   153 


ix 


ACTUAL  POWER    156 

The  Party    156 

Party  Organization    158 

Orientation  Toward  the  Political  System   160 

INTEREST  GROUPS  AND  NATIONAL  POLITICS    162 

Political  Issues   162 

Interest  Groups    168 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    172 

Foreign  Relations  and  the  Council  of  the  Entente  ....  173 
Relations  with  Ghana,  Burkina  Faso,  Guinea, 

and  Mali    174 

Relations  with  Other  African  States    176 

Relations  with  France    176 

Relations  with  the  United  States    177 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  China    178 

Relations  with  Israel    178 

Chapter  5.   National  Security   181 

Joseph  P.  Smaldone 

ARMED  FORCES    184 

Early  Development    184 

Constitutional,  Legal,  and  Administrative 

Structure    186 

Defense  Mission  and  National  Policy  Structure    189 

Recruitment  and  Conditions  of  Service   192 

Training    193 

Foreign  Influences    197 

ROLE  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES  IN  SOCIETY   200 

The  Military  in  National  Perspective    201 

National  Service  and  Veterans  Groups    201 

INTERNAL  SECURITY    203 

Domestic  Security    203 

Human  Rights   206 

Internal  Security  Organization  and  Forces    206 

Crime  and  Punishment   210 

Appendix.  Tables   215 

Bibliography    223 

Glossary    243 

Index    247 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Cote  dTvoire,  1988    xxii 


x 


2  Precolonial  Kingdoms    6 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    42 

4  Vegetation  Zones,  1983    44 

5  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988    50 

6  Major  Ethnic  Groups,  1983    52 

7  Percentage  of  Population  by  Ethnic  Cluster,  1988    54 

8  Public  Education  System,  1988    82 

9  Cocoa,  Coffee,  and  Timber  Producing  Areas    114 

10  Timber  Production,  Selected  Years,  1961-87    116 

11  Economic  Activity,  1983    126 

12  Transportation  System,  1988    132 

13  Organization  of  the  Ivoirian  Government,  1986    150 

14  Organization  of  Ivoirian  Defense  Forces,  1985    188 

15  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1988    194 

16  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1988    195 


XI 


Preface 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study  replaces  the  second  edition  of  the 
original  Area  Handbook  for  Ivory  Coast  which  was  reprinted  in  1973 
with  an  added  summary  of  events  covering  the  January  1963  to 
December  1972  period.  Like  the  earlier  study,  this  edition  seeks 
to  provide  a  concise  and  objective  account  of  the  history  and 
dominant  social,  political,  economic,  and  military  aspects  of  con- 
temporary Cote  d'lvoire.  Sources  of  information  included  schol- 
arly monographs  and  journals,  official  reports  of  governments  and 
international  organizations,  periodicals,  and  foreign  and  domes- 
tic newspapers.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the 
book;  brief  comments  on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources  ap- 
pear at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in  the 
metric  system;  a  conversion  table  to  aid  readers  is  included  (see 
table  1,  Appendix).  A  glossary  is  also  included. 

Authors  have  spelled  place-names  in  accordance  with  usage  estab- 
lished by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names.  In  trans- 
literating personal  names,  they  have  followed  standard  usage  in 
official  Ivoirian  sources. 


xm 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republique  de  Cote  d'lvoire. 
Short  Form:  Cote  d'lvoire. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Ivoirians. 
Capital:  Abidjan. 

Date  of  Independence:  August  7,  1960,  from  France. 

Geography 

Size:  Total  area  322,460  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Southern  boundary  515-kilometer  coastline  on  Gulf 
of  Guinea.  Southeast  marked  by  coastal  lagoons;  southern  region, 
especially  southwest,  densely  forested;  northern  region  savanna  zone 
of  lateritic  or  sandy  soils,  with  vegetation  decreasing  from  south 


xv 


to  north  within  region.  Terrain  mostly  flat  to  undulating  plains, 
with  mountains  in  the  west. 

Climate:  Warm,  humid  climate  transitional  from  equatorial  to  trop- 
ical. In  north,  heavy  rains  between  June  and  October  (110  cen- 
timeters annually);  along  equatorial  coast,  some  rain  in  most 
months,  but  heaviest  between  May  and  July  and  August  and  Sep- 
tember (200  centimeters  annually),  with  major  dry  season  from 
December  to  April.  Temperatures  average  between  25°C  and  30°C 
and  range  from  10°C  to  40°C. 

Society 

Population:  As  of  1987,  estimated  at  10.6  million,  with  average 
annual  growth  rate  of  4.1  percent,  one  of  highest  in  world.  Roughly 
50  percent  of  population  urban  and  concentrated  in  Abidjan  and 
Bouake  areas.  Average  population  density  thirty- two  persons  per 
square  kilometer  in  1987.  Forty-five  percent  of  population  under 
age  fifteen. 

Ethnic  Groups:  More  than  sixty  ethnic  groups.  Major  ethnic 
groups  included:  Baoule  (15  percent),  Senoufo  (10  percent),  Bete 
(6  percent),  Lagoon  peoples  (5  percent),  Agni  (Anyi — 3  percent), 
and  Mande  cluster  of  groups,  including  Juula,  Bambara,  and 
Malinke  (17  percent).  Non-Ivoirian  Africans,  Lebanese,  Asians, 
and  Europeans  composed  nearly  27  percent  of  population. 

Languages:  Number  of  African  languages  (grouped  into  four 
branches  of  Niger-Congo  language  family)  corresponds  roughly 
to  number  of  ethnic  groups.  Sections  of  several  groups  speak  differ- 
ent languages.  Some  languages  used  as  mother  tongue  by  more 
than  one  ethnic  group.  Official  language,  French;  variants  of 
Mande-kan  spoken  throughout  country  as  commercial  language. 

Religion:  In  1980s  one-fourth  of  population  Muslim,  one-eighth 
Christian  (mostly  Roman  Catholic),  and  remainder  local  religions 
or,  in  smaller  numbers,  syncretic  religions. 

Education:  Six-year  primary- school  system  compulsory  where 
available.  In  1987  enrolled  75  percent  of  boys  and  50  percent  of 
girls  under  fifteen.  Only  19  percent  of  primary- school  students  en- 
rolled in  public  secondary  schools.  After  four  years,  students  sit 
for  exams  for  certificate  of  lower  cycle  of  secondary  study  {brevet 
d' etude  du  premier  cycle — BEPC).  A  second  three-year  cycle  led  to 
baccalaureat,  necessary  for  university  entrance.  Public  schooling 
through  university  controlled  and  funded  by  central  government. 
Fourteen  percent  of  primary  schools  and  29  percent  of  secondary 


xvi 


schools  private,  mostly  Catholic.  Some  Quranic  schools  in  north 
tolerated  but  not  supported  by  government.  In  1988  overall  liter- 
acy rate  43  percent;  53  percent  for  men  and  31  percent  for  women. 

Health:  In  1988  health  services  unable  to  meet  needs  of  majority 
of  population.  Urban-rural  and  regional  imbalances,  low  ratios  of 
doctors  to  patients,  and  severe  shortages  of  nurses  and  auxiliary 
health  care  personnel  existed.  Public  health  programs  underfunded 
and  personnel  lacked  adequate  training.  Nutritional  deficiencies 
and  impure  water  major  sources  of  disease.  Malaria,  measles,  and 
tropical  ailments  common;  250  cases  of  acquired  immunodeficiency 
syndrome  (AIDS)  reported  by  end  of  1987. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Economy  oriented  toward  private  enterprise  with 
extensive  government  participation  through  parastatals,  investment, 
and  tax  policies.  Foreign  investment  welcomed;  multinational 
corporations  heavily  involved  in  two-thirds  of  largest  thirty  busi- 
nesses dealing  in  commodity  exports,  food  processing,  oil  refin- 
ing, textiles,  beverages,  construction,  and  commercial  wholesaling 
and  retailing.  Country's  principal  resource  agricultural  land.  Major 
food  crops  yams,  cassava,  rice,  maize,  and  plantains. 

Agriculture:  Thirty-four  percent  of  population  engaged  in  sub- 
sistence farming.  Cash  cropping  on  small  plots  (coffee,  cocoa,  and 
cotton)  and  large  plantations  (bananas,  palm  oil,  pineapples,  rub- 
ber, and  sugar).  Agriculture  second  largest  contributor  to  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  and  main  source  of  exports. 
In  late  1990s,  not  self-sufficient  in  food  production. 

Manufacturing:  Import  substitution  consumer  goods,  some  in- 
termediate inputs  for  domestic  markets,  and  food  processing — 
coffee,  cocoa,  and  sugar — for  export.  Most  industry  required  im- 
ported intermediate  materials. 

Mining:  Some  diamonds,  manganese,  iron  ore,  cobalt,  bauxite, 
copper,  nickel,  colombo-tantalite,  ilmenite,  and  gold,  but  none  in 
significant  amounts;  offshore  oil  met  about  two- thirds  of  local  needs. 

Energy:  Rural  population  heavily  dependent  on  wood;  urban  popu- 
lation, on  electric  power,  natural  gas,  and  kerosene. 

Foreign  Trade:  Principal  exports  cocoa,  coffee,  and  timber;  other 
exports  cotton,  sugar,  rubber,  palm  oil,  and  pineapples.  Principal 
imports  petroleum  products,  machinery,  and  transport  equip- 
ment. 


xvn 


Currency:  African  Financial  Community  (Communaute  Finan- 
cier Africaine)  franc  (CFA  F)  equal  in  1988  to  315  per  dollar  and 
freely  convertible  to  French  francs  (FF). 

Fiscal  Year:  January  1  through  December  31. 

Transportation 

Railroads:  Government-owned  railroad  runs  660  kilometers  be- 
tween Abidjan  and  border  with  Burkina  Faso,  where,  under  differ- 
ent ownership,  it  continues  on  to  Ouagadougou;  one-meter  gauge, 
single  track  except  at  stations. 

Roads:  Extensive  system  totaling  53,736  kilometers;  more  than 
3,600  kilometers  bituminous  and  bituminous-treated  surface; 
32,000  kilometers  gravel,  crushed  stone,  laterite,  and  improved 
earth;  18,136  unimproved.  Hard  surface  roads  generally  run  north- 
south,  linking  cities  to  Abidjan. 

Ports  and  Shipping:  Major  ports  at  Abidjan  and  San-Pedro;  minor 
port  at  Sassandra.  At  Abidjan,  facilities  included  total  of  thirty- 
five  deep  water  berths  for  general,  bulk,  and  container  cargo;  roll- 
on/roll-off  facility;  and  specialized  quays  for  bananas,  fish,  tim- 
ber, cement,  hydrocarbons,  and  tankers.  In  1986  handled  9.5  mil- 
lion tons  of  cargo. 

Civil  Aviation:  Government-owned  Ivoirian  Air  Transport  and 
Liaison  (Groupement  Aerien  de  Transport  et  de  Liaison — GATL), 
also  known  as  Air  Ivoire,  provided  domestic  and  regional  service; 
international  service  provided  by  Air  Afrique,  owned  by  consor- 
tium of  African  countries  and  based  in  Abidjan.  International  air- 
ports at  Abidjan,  Bouake,  and  Yamoussoukro,  plus  13  major 
domestic  airfields,  17  smaller  regional  airfields,  and  50  private  air- 
fields. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Constitution  of  1960  creates  republic  with  strong,  cen- 
tralized presidential  government,  independent  judiciary,  and  na- 
tional legislature.  President  and  175-member  National  Assembly 
(Assemblee  Nationale)  elected  by  universal  suffrage  for  five-year 
terms.  In  the  late  1980s,  all  candidates  had  to  belong  to  Democratic 
Party  of  Cote  dTvoire  (Parti  Democratique  de  Cote  dTvoire — 
PDCI),  then  the  country's  only  legal  party. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Forty- nine  prefectures  divided  into  sub- 
prefectures;  thirty-seven  municipalities  enjoyed  autonomous  status. 


xvin 


Judicial  System:  Laws  based  on  French  and,  to  lesser  extent,  cus- 
tomary law.  Upper-level  courts  included  Supreme  Court,  High 
Court  of  Justice,  and  State  Security  Court;  lower  courts  included 
courts  of  appeal,  courts  of  first  instance,  courts  of  assize,  and  justice 
of  peace  courts. 

Politics:  As  of  late  1988,  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny  had  served  as 
president  since  independence.  He  had  not  named  a  successor,  en- 
couraging rivalry  between  National  Assembly  president  Henri 
Konan  Bedie  and  Economic  and  Social  Council  president  Philippe 
Yace.  Economic  austerity,  calls  for  multiparty  system,  and  increas- 
ing crime  were  potential  threats  to  stability. 

Foreign  Affairs:  Leading  member  of  Council  of  the  Entente  and 
West  African  Economic  Community;  pragmatic  foreign  policy; 
staunch  ally  of  France  and  other  Western  nations  on  which  Cote 
d'lvoire  relied  for  development  aid.  Supported  United  States  agenda 
on  South  Africa  and  Chad. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  In  1987  armed  forces  numbered  9,730  personnel: 
army  numbered  5,500;  navy,  approximately  700;  air  force,  approx- 
imately 930;  and  Presidential  Guard  and  Militia  (Garde  Presiden- 
tielle  et  Milice — GPM),  approximately  2,600.  Military  service 
compulsory;  however,  volunteers  easily  filled  needs. 

Major  Tactical  Units:  Army  included  four  infantry  battalions  of 
three  companies  each,  one  armored  battalion  of  two  squadrons, 
one  antiaircraft  artillery  battalion,  and  one  engineering  battalion, 
all  with  support  units.  Navy  included  warships,  auxiliaries,  and 
service  craft.  Air  force  had  one  fighter-bomber  squadron  plus  twenty 
transport  aircraft  and  eleven  helicopters  for  training  and  transport. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance:  Relied  almost  exclusively  on  French 
weaponry,  communications  equipment,  and  training.  Japan  pro- 
vided a  training  ship  plus  technical  assistance  and  training;  Brit- 
ain, Netherlands,  Sweden,  and  United  States  sold  support  aircraft, 
small  naval  craft,  trucks,  jeeps,  and  mortars;  Switzerland  provided 
assault  rifles. 

Defense  Expenditures:  In  1986  defense  spending  came  to  CFA 
F32.4  billion,  or  less  than  7.5  percent  of  government  budget. 

Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces:  In  1987,  National  Security  Police 
(Surete  Nationale),  a  national  police  force,  numbered  5,300; 
paramilitary  National  Gendarmerie  (Gendarmerie  Nationale), 


xix 


responsible  for  maintaining  law  and  order  in  rural  areas,  numbered 
approximately  4,500.  Municipal  police,  under  local  control,  main- 
tained law  and  order  in  all  urban  administrations. 


xx 


MALI 


•10 


t  . '  \LTingrela*      » '/" 


BURKINA 
FASO 


7 


1 

Odienne 


'  A 


10- 


J 


Ferkessedougou  Vj 


GUINEA  '-.x  /  ~\ 

\  )Kato'al      Dabakala  ^ 


Bouna 


*  Touba 


(  ""^Segue/a 
• —  ^  g  uBiankour^  ■  •  . 

J\f  h<}J    \  17  .  - 


J  Kaf/o/a 

TO 


7  .1 

Bondoukou  ' 
^  -Tandf-  ■  ■ 


SZuenoula 


14/.  cf%— '30^ 


21  V^  oo  C 

.C- .  Bouake   )  ,      X,  90 

ZSakpssOj-  W     ,Mbahiakro  p.     £.0  . 

26  24  . 

•4fc>engourcJi/ 


'  /ss/a 


JBERIA 


.     Boua/te    Yamoussoukro  -  .^gourdu 

V;  5*2  ,^'m.br^ooaT  •    )  GHANA 
.  :^  43  /        •  ***wO  M 

'9n0a.'4fi)    n,,„    Ti^fal/Agbovill^  A  I 


■   33  y*9™ '46;  «„  teSA^y  , 


/ 

f  49  :  48     j  .J — 

J^^Sassandra     ^hou  Qulf  0j  guinea 
^San-Ptoro 


Atlantic  Ocean 


o  Boundary  representation  g 
not  necessarily  authoritative  t 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  1988 


xxii 


Prefectures  of  Cote  d'lvoire 


Abengourou  (24) 
Abidjan  (41) 
Aboisso  (40) 
Adzope  (39) 
Agboville  (42) 
Bangolo  (16) 
Beoumi  (19) 
Biankouma  (13) 
Bondoukou  (7) 
Bongouanou  (27) 
Bouafle  (29) 
Bouake  (21) 
Bouna  (6) 
Boundiali  (3) 
Dabakala  (8) 
Daloa  (30) 
Danane  (14) 
Daoukro  (25) 
Dimbokro  (26) 
Divo  (45) 
Duekoue  (31) 
Ferkessedougou  (5) 
Gagnoa  (35) 
Grand-Lahou  (44) 
Guiglo  (32) 


Issia  (34) 
Katiola  (9) 
Korhogo  (4) 
Lakota  (46) 
Man  (15) 
Mankono  (10) 
Mbahiakro  (22) 
Odienne  (1) 
Oume  (36) 
Sakasso  (20) 
San-Pedro  (48) 
Sassandra  (47) 
Seguela  (11) 
Sinfra  (37) 
Soubre  (33) 
Tabou  (49) 
Tanda  (23) 
Tiassale  (43) 
Tingrela  (2) 
Touba  (12) 
Toumoudi  (38) 
Vavoua  (17) 
Yamoussoukro  (28) 
Zuenoula  (18) 


Prefectures  have  the  same  names 
as  their  respectve  capitals. 


Introduction 


OBSERVERS  OF  AFRICA  have  often  characterized  Cote  d'lvoire 
as  different  from  the  rest  of  Africa.  Borrowing  the  metaphor  of  Felix 
Houphouet-Boigny,  president  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  they  have  described 
it  as  an  oasis  of  political  stability  and  economic  prosperity — in  short, 
the  "Ivoirian  miracle."  Indeed,  if  judged  on  the  basis  of  political 
stability  and  economic  performance  during  its  first  twenty  years 
of  independence,  Cote  d'lvoire  does  appear  unique:  it  has  had  only 
one  president  and  no  coups  since  gaining  independence,  and  be- 
tween 1960  and  1979  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glos- 
sary) grew  by  almost  8  percent  per  year,  compared  with  minimal 
or  negative  growth  rates  elsewhere  in  Africa.  However,  that  growth 
produced  large — some  would  have  said  dysfunctional — disparities 
in  wealth  and  income  and  skewed  development.  Consequently,  the 
country  was  ill  prepared  when,  in  the  late  1970s,  world  prices  for 
coffee  and  cocoa,  Cote  d'lvoire's  principal  export  commodities, 
dropped,  while  prices  for  its  principal  imports  rose.  Meanwhile, 
foreign  borrowing  to  finance  massive  investments  in  infrastructure 
and  public  enterprises  (that  lost  money)  raised  Cote  d'lvoire's  for- 
eign debt  beyond  its  ability  to  meet  its  obligations.  Budget  reduc- 
tions and  a  structural  adjustment  program  forced  the  vast  majority 
of  the  population  to  lower  its  expectations,  which  in  turn  contributed 
to,  among  other  social  ills,  heightened  frustrations  and  a  sharp  in- 
crease in  violent  crime.  By  the  end  of  the  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  was 
confronting  the  same  problems  of  political  and  economic  develop- 
ment as  other  African  countries  and  having  to  respond  with  many 
of  the  same  difficult  and  often  inadequate  solutions. 

In  the  early  precolonial  period,  the  dense  forests  covering  the 
southern  half  of  the  area  that  became  Cote  d'lvoire  created  bar- 
riers to  large-scale  sociopolitical  organizations.  In  the  savanna  region 
to  the  north,  dissimilar  populations  had  neither  the  incentive  nor 
the  strength  to  overcome  ethnic  differences  and  forge  a  larger  state. 
Prior  to  the  eighteenth  century,  polities  consisted  of  villages  or 
clusters  of  villages  whose  contacts  with  the  larger  world  were  filtered 
through  long-distance  traders. 

European — in  this  case  French — interest  in  the  area  remained 
desultory  until  late  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Following  the  Franco- 
Prussian  War  in  1871,  for  example,  the  French  ministry  responsi- 
ble for  colonies  offered  to  exchange  Cote  d'lvoire  with  the  British 
for  the  Gambia,  which  bisected  the  French  colony  of  Senegal.  The 
British  refused,  and  France  officially  abandoned  the  territory.  By 


xxv 


the  late  1880s,  however,  the  scramble  for  colonies  gripped  both 
France  and  Britain.  In  the  western  Sudan  (see  Glossary),  French 
military  officers  and  freebooters  extended  French  domains,  often 
without  the  knowledge  or  consent  of  the  home  government.  Un- 
substantiated rumors  of  gold  and  a  lucrative  trade  in  the  hinter- 
land of  Cote  d'lvoire  once  again  stimulated  French  interest  in  the 
colony.  In  1886  France  again  exercised  direct  control  over  the  trad- 
ing posts  on  the  Ivoirian  coast,  and  in  1887  and  1888  Captain  Louis 
Binger  and  Maurice  Treich-Laplene  negotiated  a  series  of  agree- 
ments with  local  chiefs  in  the  north-central  and  northeastern  regions 
of  Cote  d'lvoire  to  bolster  French  claims  of  effective  occupation. 
Thus,  by  the  end  of  the  decade,  France  exercised  sovereignty  over 
most  of  the  coastal  region  of  Cote  d'lvoire  and  claimed  influence 
over  certain  regions  of  the  interior.  In  1893  Cote  d'lvoire  became 
a  colony,  and  Binger  served  as  its  first  governor. 

Over  the  next  twenty  years,  French  administrators  used  the  mili- 
tary to  subdue  African  populations  that,  with  few  exceptions,  openly 
resisted  French  intrusions.  In  the  1890s,  Samori  Toure,  seeking 
to  construct  a  kingdom  across  much  of  the  Sahel,  including  north- 
ern Cote  d'lvoire,  withstood  French  (and  British)  forces  until  he 
was  captured  in  1898.  At  about  the  same  time  in  eastern  Cote 
d'lvoire,  the  Agni  (Anyi)  and  Abron  peoples  first  resisted  the  French 
and,  after  military  setbacks,  either  sabotaged  or  circumvented  the 
colonial  administration.  In  the  early  twentieth  century,  the  Baoule 
of  central  Cote  d'lvoire  openly  defied  colonial  authorities  until  for- 
cibly subdued  in  a  bloody,  so-called  pacification  campaign  under- 
taken in  1906  by  Governor  Gabriel  Angoulvant. 

The  French  administered  Cote  d'lvoire  in  a  more  direct,  sys- 
tematic style  than  did  their  British  counterparts,  who  preferred  in- 
direct rule.  French  authorities  routinely  dismissed  locally  selected 
chiefs,  replacing  them  with  others  having  no  legitimate  claim  to 
authority,  and  regrouped  or  consolidated  villages  in  an  attempt 
to  impose  a  uniform  administration  throughout  the  country.  As 
late  as  1958,  Paris  still  appointed  governors,  who  administered  the 
colony  using  a  system  of  direct,  centralized  rule  that  left  little  room 
for  Ivoirian  participation.  Most  of  the  inhabitants  were  considered 
subjects  of  France  with  no  political  rights  and  a  separate  system 
of  law.  Thus,  all  adult  males  were  forced  to  work  ten  days  for  no 
pay  each  year,  often  on  plantations  owned  by  the  French,  as  part 
of  a  tax  obligation  to  the  state,  and  rural  males  were  routinely 
drafted  to  work,  again  for  no  pay,  on  public  works  projects  like 
roads  and  the  railroad. 

World  War  II  profoundly  affected  all  of  French  West  Africa 
(Afrique  Occidentale  Francaise — AOF;  see  Glossary).  The  rapid 


xxvi 


surrender  of  France  and  the  institution  of  highly  discriminatory 
policies  under  the  Vichy  regime  alienated  the  African  political  elite, 
many  of  whom  had  served  France  in  World  War  I  and  expected 
greater  respect.  During  the  immediate  postwar  years,  an  emergent, 
educated  African  elite  demanded  reforms  in  colonial  policy.  In 
response,  France  joined  with  its  colonies  in  1946  to  form  a  com- 
munity known  as  the  French  Union  and  granted  to  African  mem- 
bers rights  of  free  speech,  free  association,  and  free  assembly.  France 
also  eliminated  separate  legal  codes  and  the  practice  of  unlimited 
forced  labor. 

Despite  these  concessions,  wealthy  Ivoirian  planters  were  still 
incensed  at  having  to  work  on  the  plantations  of  French  settlers, 
who  by  law  received  more  for  their  crops  than  they  themselves  did. 
As  a  result,  the  Ivoirian  planters  formed  the  African  Agricultural 
Union  (Syndicat  Agricole  Africain — SAA)  to  fight  for  equal  rights. 
In  1946  the  SAA  gave  rise  to  Cote  d'lvoire's  sole  political  party, 
the  Democratic  Party  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Parti  Democratique  de  Cote 
d'lvoire — PDCI)  under  the  leadership  of  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny. 
During  the  postwar  years,  the  party,  in  cooperation  with  a  regional 
coalition  of  anticolonialist  groups,  militantly  challenged  French  poli- 
cies in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Confrontation  led  to  such  violence  and  repres- 
sion that  by  1951  the  party  was  in  near  ruin.  To  stave  off  a  collapse, 
Houphouet-Boigny  abandoned  his  alliance  with  the  French  Com- 
munist Party  and  the  radical  politics  of  earlier  years  in  favor  of 
practical  cooperation  with  French  authorities.  France  then  granted 
significant  political  and  economic  concessions  to  the  colony,  which 
soon  became  the  wealthiest  in  French  West  Africa. 

In  1956  the  French  government  authorized  for  all  of  its  African 
colonies  a  series  of  momentous  and  fundamental  reforms,  which 
in  effect  substituted  autonomy  for  integration  with  France  as  the 
cornerstone  of  French  colonial  policy.  Two  years  later,  under  the 
leadership  of  President  Charles  de  Gaulle,  the  Constitution  of  the 
French  Fifth  Republic  provided  for  the  free  association  of  autono- 
mous republics  within  the  French  Community,  in  which  France 
was  the  senior  partner.  Cote  d'lvoire  voted  in  favor  of  the  Consti- 
tution, which  was  thought  to  be  a  more  pragmatic  course  than  com- 
plete independence.  Nevertheless,  following  the  lead  of  Senegal  and 
Mali,  Cote  d'lvoire  withdrew  from  the  French  Community  and 
in  August  1960  declared  its  independence.  Houphouet-Boigny  be- 
came Cote  d'lvoire's  first  president,  an  office  he  still  held  in  late 
1989. 

The  original  drafters  of  the  Ivoirian  Constitution  of  October  1960 
intended  to  establish  a  democratic  government  with  a  presidential 
system  incorporating  the  principles  of  the  separation  of  powers  and 


xxvn 


an  independent  judiciary.  Within  a  short  time,  however,  gover- 
nance became  highly  authoritarian.  Party  leadership  equated  a  uni- 
fied state  with  unanimous  support  for  the  PDCI  under  the  untested 
belief  that  competition  among  parties  would  waste  resources,  lead 
to  corruption,  and  destroy  unity.  By  circumscribing  the  preroga- 
tives of  the  National  Assembly  and  tailoring  election  laws, 
Houphouet-Boigny  effectively  denied  the  assembly  an  independent 
voice;  and  by  doling  out  patronage,  co-opting  opponents,  and  pit- 
ting rivals  against  one  another,  he  tightened  his  grip  on  government. 

Even  those  who  objected  to  Houphouet-Boigny' s  style  admired 
the  results  of  his  policies:  twenty  years  of  economic  growth  and 
political  stability.  Nevertheless,  invidious  habits  and  attitudes  that 
had  developed  over  the  twenty  years  of  economic  growth  posed 
a  potential  threat  to  the  political  order.  In  few  other  countries  was 
materialism  as  open  and  avowed  an  ideology.  By  the  1980s,  the 
elite,  using  its  official  positions  and  connections  to  obtain  wealth, 
had  replaced  the  struggle  for  independence  with  the  pursuit  of 
privilege,  leading  to  manifest  extremes  of  wealth  and  poverty.  This 
elite  was  infected  with  consumerism,  and  it  could  not  afford  to  lose 
or  even  share  power.  At  the  same  time,  the  sharp  economic  down- 
turn of  the  1980s  and  Houphouet-Boigny 's  advancing  age  caused 
fears  that  the  ethnic  rivalries  he  sought  to  dampen  might  ignite 
under  a  less  charismatic  successor. 

For  Cote  dT voire,  ethnicity  was  a  particularly  thorny  problem. 
The  population  included  some  sixty  indigenous  ethnic  groups.  The 
largest  group  (that  of  Houphouet-Boigny)  was  the  Baoule,  which 
comprised  15  percent  of  the  population  and  was  centered  in  the 
forest  region  southeast  of  Bouake.  The  Baoule  were  part  of  the  larger 
Akan  ethnic  cluster,  which  also  included  the  Abron  and  the  Agni 
groups.  The  chief  rivals  of  the  Baoule  were  the  Bete,  who  in  the 
1980s  made  up  approximately  6  percent  of  the  population.  Dur- 
ing the  twentieth  century,  the  Bete  achieved  recognition  for  their 
success  in  cash  cropping  and  for  their  widespread  acceptance  of 
Christianity.  Because  the  Bete  nurtured  strong  beliefs  in  the  su- 
periority of  their  culture  and  had  a  long  history  of  resistance  to 
foreign  domination,  they  have  often  been  accused  of  fomenting  anti- 
government  dissent.  Other  major  ethnic  groups  included  the  Dan, 
the  Malinke,  the  Juula,  the  Senoufo,  and  the  Agni.  The  largest 
single  foreign  minority  group  was  the  Burkinabe  (natives  of  Burkina 
Faso,  formerly  known  as  Upper  Volta),  who  were  generally  Mossi. 
They  were  concentrated  in  rural  areas,  where  they  worked  as  farm 
laborers.  The  Lebanese,  officially  estimated  at  60,000  but  possi- 
bly numbering  180,000,  dominated  sectors  of  the  wholesale  and 
retail  trade.  In  1988  there  were  approximately  30,000  French 


xxviii 


citizens  in  Cote  d' I  voire,  or  about  the  same  number  as  at  in- 
dependence. 

Because  no  single  ethnic  group  held  a  preponderance  of  power, 
none  could  automatically  impose  its  will.  Ethnic  politics,  therefore, 
were  important  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  notwithstanding  presidential  state- 
ments to  the  contrary.  And  because  of  that  cultural  diversity, 
Houphouet-Boigny,  making  a  virtue  of  necessity,  perfected  the  po- 
litics of  inclusion.  All  major  ethnic  groups  were  represented  in  his 
cabinet  and  the  major  policy-making  bodies  of  the  PDCI,  making 
it  easier  to  deflect  responsibility  at  a  time  when  the  rising  expecta- 
tions of  Ivoirians  were  being  thwarted. 

The  Ivoirian  economy  in  the  late  1980s  continued  its  downward 
spiral,  primarily  because  world  prices  for  coffee  and  cocoa,  the  coun- 
try's two  principal  exports,  remained  low.  At  the  same  time,  ex- 
ports of  timber,  the  third  largest  source  of  foreign  exchange,  declined 
because  of  continued  overexploitation.  Two  offshore  petroleum 
fields,  which  in  the  early  1970s  were  projected  to  make  Cote  d'lvoire 
self-sufficient  in  fuel,  failed  to  achieve  projected  outputs,  let  alone 
self-sufficiency.  Because  of  the  relatively  low  world  prices  for  petrole- 
um and  Cote  d'lvoire's  high  production  costs,  all  the  wells  in  one 
field  were  capped. 

Beginning  in  the  mid-1970s,  the  government  undertook  a  major 
effort  to  diversify  the  export  economy  by  expanding  production 
of  palm  oil,  natural  rubber,  coconut  oil,  cotton,  sugar,  and  tropi- 
cal fruits.  Ten  years  later,  the  government  implemented  a  program 
to  modernize  its  import  substitution  industries,  sell  off  unprofitable 
parastatals,  and  further  expand  exports  to  include  processed  foods, 
textiles,  wood,  and  such  nonagricultural  products  as  building 
materials,  chemicals,  and  electronics. 

The  results  of  all  three  plans  were  mixed.  The  market  for  palm 
and  coconut  oils  was  eroded  by  substitutes  with  less  saturated  fat; 
sugar,  produced  by  a  grossly  inefficient  parastatal,  simply  added 
to  a  world  surplus;  and  in  other  areas  Cote  d'lvoire  was  compet- 
ing with  other  states  of  Africa  and  Asia  producing  many  of  the  same 
tropical  agricultural  goods.  Exports  produced  under  the  industri- 
al expansion  program  were  more  expensive — at  least  initially — 
than  similar  goods  produced  elsewhere  and  so  required  export  sub- 
sidies. Subsidies,  however,  required  scarce  funds.  Meanwhile, 
Houphouet-Boigny  adamantly  refused  to  cut  producer  prices  for 
coffee  and  cocoa;  consequendy,  production  levels  increased — some 
estimates  for  the  1988-89  cocoa  harvest  were  as  high  as  700,000 
tons — which  further  depressed  commodity  prices.  Finally,  divest- 
ment from  parastatals  yielded  lower  returns  than  anticipated. 


xxix 


Moreover,  the  larger,  more  profitable  companies  were  purchased 
by  foreign  interests,  further  adding  to  capital  flight. 

The  lack  of  investment  capital  was  the  undoing  of  the  Ivoirian 
miracle.  To  finance  development,  Cote  d'lvoire  borrowed  substan- 
tial amounts  abroad,  especially  during  the  mid-1970s  when  un- 
usually high  coffee  and  cocoa  prices  led  planners  to  overestimate 
the  potential  of  the  economy.  Thus,  by  1976  high  debt  payments 
together  with  repatriated  profits  and  foreign  worker  remittances 
had  produced  a  negative  net  reserve  position  for  the  first  time  in 
the  country's  history.  Debt  servicing  costs  continued  to  mount  to 
the  extent  that  in  May  1987  the  government  announced  that  it 
would  suspend  payments  on  its  foreign  debt. 

To  stave  off  a  financial  collapse,  Cote  d'lvoire  negotiated  an  eco- 
nomic recovery  and  structural  adjustment  program  with  the  Paris 
Club  (see  Glossary),  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary),  and  the  London  Club  (see  Glossary)  that  provided 
a  respite  from  debt  repayment.  The  subsequent  retrenchments  man- 
dated by  the  programs  affected  all  income  groups  in  the  country, 
but  they  had  the  greatest  impact  on  the  poor.  These  measures  gave 
rise  to  such  symptoms  of  violent  social  dislocation  as  drug  abuse 
and  crime— which  required  additional  expenditures  and  new  po- 
litical options  from  the  government. 

The  party- government  of  Cote  d'lvoire  in  the  mid-1980s  most 
closely  resembled  an  old-fashioned  political  machine.  Although  it 
called  itself  a  one-party  democracy,  Cote  d'lvoire  was  not  a 
democracy  in  the  Western  sense:  the  government  controlled  the 
press,  limited  civil  liberties,  and  allowed  no  institutionalized  op- 
position to  frame  debate.  As  economic  austerity  exacerbated  po- 
litical tensions,  individuals  and  informal  groups  called  for  greater 
political  choice,  which  the  government  seemed  unprepared  to  grant. 

Meanwhile,  students  protested  against  the  role  of  foreigners  in 
the  economy  and  the  government,  which  they  saw  as  controlled 
by  a  small  number  of  party  leaders  for  the  benefit  of  a  privileged 
class  of  bureaucrats  and  landowners.  Corruption  in  the  business 
community,  long  considered  an  affliction  of  other  African  states, 
was  becoming  embarrassingly  obvious  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Reduced 
services,  coupled  with  wage  freezes  and  higher  costs,  were  alienat- 
ing mid-level  civil  servants  and  professionals.  And  increasingly 
brazen  attacks  against  expatriates  by  well-armed  bandits  were  af- 
fecting tourism  and  foreign  investment.  A  growing  number  of 
Ivoirians  was  questioning  whether  these  problems  could  be  solved 
by  a  government  dominated  by  an  octogenarian  president  with  no 
apparent  successor. 


xxx 


In  the  late  1980s,  the  choice  of  a  successor  to  Houphouet-Boigny 
remained  a  dominant  issue  in  Ivoirian  politics.  Because  the  style, 
form,  tone,  and  policies  of  the  government  were  the  personal  cre- 
ation of  the  president,  the  succession  question  had  substantial  im- 
plications. Two  plausible  contenders  in  1989  were  Philippe  Yace 
and  Henri  Konan  Bedie,  representing,  respectively,  the  first  and 
second  generations  of  Ivoirian  politics.  Houphouet-Boigny  refused 
to  designate  an  heir  and  left  the  decision  to  the  political  process, 
believing  that  the  Ivoirian  polity  was  mature  enough  to  make  a 
decision  without  recklessly  endangering  national  security  or 
precipitating  military  intervention  into  civilian  politics. 

With  the  exception  of  a  small  uprising  (the  true  size  of  which 
has  never  been  documented)  in  1970  near  Gagnoa  in  the  Bete 
region,  the  military  has  played  no  role  in  domestic  peacekeeping. 
Moreover,  Houphouet-Boigny  co-opted  the  military  with  suffici- 
ently attractive  perquisites  (including  high  salaries  and  positions 
in  the  party)  so  that  the  senior  officer  corps  had  little  interest  in 
political  meddling.  To  further  promote  satisfaction,  the  military 
was  equipped  with  advanced  equipment  purchased  from  France. 

In  its  foreign  affairs,  Cote  d'lvoire  either  befriended  or  attempted 
to  isolate  its  immediate  neighbors.  Recognizing  that  the  "oasis  never 
encroaches  upon  the  desert,"  Houphouet-Boigny  sought  mutually 
beneficial  ties  with  Cote  d'lvoire's  neighbors  despite  ideological 
differences.  And  for  good  measure,  he  insisted  that  France  main- 
tain a  battalion  of  marines  near  Abidjan  to  buttress  his  own  military. 

As  Cote  d'lvoire  faced  the  1990s,  the  problems  of  finding  a  suc- 
cessor to  Houphouet-Boigny,  discontent  on  the  campus  of  its  only 
university,  an  ossified  party,  and  a  beggar- thy-neighbor  material- 
ism concerned  Ivoirians.  At  the  same  time,  a  history  of  political 
stability  coupled  with  a  tradition  of  civilian  rule  and  an  apparent 
willingness  on  the  part  of  the  second  and  third  generation  of  Ivoirian 
politicians  to  liberalize  the  political  process  and  accommodate  diver- 
gent views  promised  a  less  troubled  future  for  the  country. 

October  6,  1989 

*    *  * 

In  mid- 1989,  as  the  economy  continued  its  decline,  even  lead- 
ing members  of  the  establishment  began  voicing  discontent,  albeit 
in  guarded  terms.  In  September  1989,  Houphouet-Boigny  invit- 
ed political  leaders — critics  and  supporters — to  Abidjan  for  what 
was  called  "five  days  of  dialogue."  Uncharacteristically  sharp  and 
candid  criticisms  of  the  party  and  government  over  the  five  days 


xxxi 


conveyed  a  lack  of  confidence  in  the  ruling  elite,  which  was  labeled 
narrow  and  selfish,  and  called  for  a  more  responsive  party  in  a 
multi-party  system.  Less  than  a  month  later  on  October  16,  1989, 
Houphouet-Boigny  reshuffled  his  cabinet  and,  in  response  to  World 
Bank  (see  Glossary)  recommendations,  reduced  it  from  29  to  21 
members. 

Four  months  later,  students  protested  recently  announced  wage 
cuts,  tax  increases,  and  the  longstanding  issue  of  single  party  rule 
with  large-scale  demonstrations  that  at  times  turned  into  violent 
confrontations  with  police  in  the  streets  of  Abidjan  and,  in  one  in- 
stance, in  Abidjan's  Roman  Catholic  cathedral.  In  April  and  May 
1990,  army  and  air  force  recruits  protesting  the  cost-cutting  deci- 
sion to  limit  their  military  service  to  a  single  tour  of  duty  demon- 
strated in  bases  across  Cote  d'lvoire;  a  group  of  armed  air  force 
recruits  even  took  over  the  international  airport  outside  Abidjan 
for  twelve  hours.  Police  and  firefighters  also  staged  highly  visible 
protests  for  higher  wages.  By  mid-May,  Houphouet-Boigny  had 
capitulated  on  the  issues  of  military  duty  and  higher  wages  for  police 
and  firefighters,  and  he  scrapped  plans  to  increase  income  taxes. 
Most  significantly,  he  pledged  for  the  first  time  to  legalize  opposi- 
tion parties  and  promised  to  name  a  successor,  although  as  of  June 
1990,  he  had  not  yet  done  either. 


July  1,  1990  Robert  Handloff 


xxxii 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Nineteenth-century  mud-brick  mosque  in  the  Sudanic 


SINCE  THE  1950s,  COTE  DTVOIRE  has  been  one  of  the  few 
sub-Saharan  African  countries  to  enjoy  political  stability  and  a  rela- 
tively sound  economy.  Much  of  the  credit  for  Cote  d T voire 's  suc- 
cess goes  to  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny,  the  country's  most  prominent 
politician  since  1944,  who  methodically  shaped  personal  and  in- 
stitutional controls  and  carefully  cultivated  and  maintained  close 
ties  with  Western  industrialized  countries. 

Cote  dTvoire  remained  relatively  isolated  for  much  of  its  early 
history.  Islam,  which  penetrated  most  other  regions  of  West  Africa 
before  the  sixteenth  century,  made  only  minor  inroads  into  Cote 
d T voire 's  forest  belt.  The  country's  rugged  coastline  and  lack  of 
suitable  harbors  discouraged  European  exploration  until  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century.  Before  that  time,  the  only  French  contact  with 
Cote  dTvoire  occurred  in  1637,  when  missionaries  landed  at  Assini, 
on  the  southern  Ivoirian  coast.  This  remote  region  was  neither 
politically  nor  economically  significant  and  therefore  held  little 
attraction  for  settlement  or  exploitation  by  European  powers. 

In  the  1880s,  France  pursued  a  more  vigorous  colonial  policy. 
Driven  by  the  growing  forces  of  European  imperial  competition 
for  foreign  influence,  as  well  as  the  promise  of  wealth  to  be  found 
in  a  West  African  empire,  French  explorers,  missionaries,  trading 
companies,  and  soldiers  gradually  extended  the  area  under  French 
domination.  They  achieved  control  over  the  population,  sometimes 
through  deceit  and  coercion,  by  signing  treaties  with  local  rulers, 
who  agreed  to  come  under  French  protection  in  return  for  eco- 
nomic favors  and  protection  from  neighboring  enemies.  After  Cote 
dTvoire  officially  became  a  French  colony  in  1893,  France  engaged 
in  a  so-called  pacification  campaign  clearly  intended  to  subjugate 
the  indigenous  population  and  to  establish  French  sovereignty. 
Before  World  War  I,  the  many  instances  of  violent  and  protracted 
resistance  to  the  French,  especially  among  the  Baoule,  were  the 
longest  wars  fought  between  Europeans  and  Africans  in  West 
Africa.  In  many  instances,  these  were  contained  only  when  Ivoirians 
in  positions  of  power  recognized  the  tremendous  economic  advan- 
tages accorded  them  by  France. 

By  the  1940s,  sources  of  strong  opposition  to  the  French  colo- 
nial administration  had  emerged.  At  that  time,  France  was  neither 
able  nor  willing  to  crush  opposition  as  in  the  past.  Moreover,  the 
opposition,  which  focused  on  the  administration's  institutionali- 
zation of  forced  labor  and  its  discrimination  in  favor  of  French 


3 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


planters,  intended — at  least  initially — simply  to  change  colonial  pol- 
icy rather  than  to  achieve  independence.  Because  all  Ivoirians  were 
affected  by  at  least  one  of  these  discriminatory  practices,  many  were 
hostile  to  the  administration.  Ivoirian  planters,  in  particular,  suf- 
fered from  French  discriminatory  policies.  In  1943,  for  example, 
they  were  forbidden  to  recruit  their  own  labor  and  were  sometimes 
removed  from  their  own  plantations  to  work  for  European  enter- 
prises. This  group  thus  stood  to  benefit  greatly  from  the  abolition 
of  colonial  labor  recruitment  policies  and  had  strong  reasons  to 
struggle  against  certain  aspects  of  French  colonialism.  They  were 
behind  the  formation  of  an  anticolonialist  movement  that  in  1944 
resulted  in  the  birth  of  the  African  Agricultural  Union  and  later 
of  the  Democratic  Party  of  Cote  d'lvoire. 

In  other  ways,  French  colonial  rule  had  significant  consequences 
for  the  modern  history  of  Cote  d'lvoire.  The  French  colonial  sys- 
tem introduced  modern  technology  and  economic  development. 
It  also  reinforced  the  position  of  relatively  privileged  groups  like 
the  Ivoirian  planters,  when  discriminatory  practices  were  abolished 
after  World  War  II.  As  a  result  of  economic  and  social  changes 
in  France  after  World  War  II,  French  investments  in  the  West 
African  colonies  grew  at  the  same  time  as  Paris  thrust  greater 
responsibilities  and  powers  on  its  African  colonies.  There  emerged 
in  Cote  d'lvoire  a  group  whose  economic  interests  were  closely 
linked  to  those  of  France  and  whose  continuing  close  relations  with 
France  ensured  the  stability  of  French  economic  interests  in  Cote 
d'lvoire.  Thus,  when  Cote  d'lvoire  became  independent  in  1960, 
France  was  able  to  maintain  a  secure  economic  grip  on  the  coun- 
try and  continued  to  influence  Ivoirian  political  decisions,  much 
as  it  did  before  independence. 

The  most  significant  features  of  modern  Ivoirian  history  have 
been  the  development  of  the  one-party  state,  which  Houphouet- 
Boigny  established  to  assure  his  own  autocratic  rule,  and  economic 
growth.  When  Cote  d'lvoire  gained  independence  in  1960  under 
the  leadership  of  Houphouet-Boigny,  the  new  president  immedi- 
ately assumed  strong  powers  as  head  of  state,  head  of  government, 
and  leader  of  the  ruling  Democratic  Party  of  Cote  d'lvoire. 
Houphouet-Boigny' s  political  strength  derived  from  the  country's 
economic  prosperity.  Until  the  late  1970s,  Cote  d'lvoire  experienced 
enormous  economic  growth,  based  largely  on  agricultural  exports. 
The  benefits  of  economic  prosperity  were  not  equally  distributed, 
however.  Benefiting  most  was  a  bourgeoisie  made  up  of  wealthy 
politicians,  who  were  often  also  business  people  and  owners  of 
prosperous  coffee  and  cocoa  plantations.  But  the  president  success- 
fully prevented  significant  pockets  of  resistance  to  his  rule  from 


4 


Historical  Setting 


forming  through  a  combination  of  co-optation  and  mild  repres- 
sion. So  successful  was  he  that  most  of  those  whose  rights  were 
abused  nonetheless  recognized  that  they  were  materially  better  off 
than  their  neighbors.  The  greatest  source  of  Houphouet-Boigny's 
popular  appeal  was,  and  continued  to  be  in  mid- 1988,  the  strength 
of  his  charismatic  personality. 

Pre-European  Period 

Little  is  known  about  the  original  inhabitants  of  Cote  dT voire. 
Historians  believe  that  they  were  all  either  displaced  or  absorbed 
by  the  ancestors  of  the  present  inhabitants.  The  first  recorded  his- 
tory is  found  in  the  chronicles  of  North  African  traders,  who,  from 
early  Roman  times,  conducted  a  caravan  trade  across  the  Sahara 
in  salt,  slaves,  gold,  and  other  items.  The  southern  terminals  of 
the  trans- Saharan  trade  routes  were  located  on  the  edge  of  the 
desert,  and  from  there  supplemental  trade  extended  as  far  south 
as  the  edge  of  the  rain  forest.  The  more  important  terminals — 
Djenne,  Gao,  and  Timbuctu — grew  into  major  commercial  centers 
around  which  the  great  Sudanic  empires  developed.  By  control- 
ling the  trade  routes  with  their  powerful  military  forces,  these  em- 
pires were  able  to  dominate  neighboring  states. 

The  Sudanic  empires  also  became  centers  of  Islamic  learning. 
Islam  had  been  introduced  into  the  western  Sudan  (see  Glossary) 
by  Arab  traders  from  North  Africa  and  spread  rapidly  after  the 
conversion  of  many  important  rulers.  From  the  eleventh  century, 
by  which  time  the  rulers  of  the  Sudanic  empires  had  embraced 
Islam,  it  spread  south  into  the  northern  areas  of  contemporary  Cote 
dT  voire. 

Ghana,  the  earliest  of  the  Sudanic  empires,  flourished  in  present- 
day  eastern  Mauritania  from  the  fourth  to  the  thirteenth  century. 
At  the  peak  of  its  power  in  the  eleventh  century,  its  realms  extended 
from  the  Atlantic  Ocean  to  Timbuctu.  After  the  decline  of  Ghana, 
the  Mali  Empire  grew  into  a  powerful  Muslim  state,  which  reached 
its  apogee  in  the  early  part  of  the  fourteenth  century.  The  terri- 
tory of  the  Mali  Empire  in  Cote  dTvoire  was  limited  to  the  north- 
west corner  around  Odienne.  Its  slow  decline  starting  at  the  end 
of  the  fourteenth  century  followed  internal  discord  and  revolts  by 
vassal  states,  one  of  which,  Songhai,  flourished  as  an  empire  be- 
tween the  fourteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries.  Songhai  was  also 
weakened  by  internal  discord,  which  led  to  factional  warfare.  This 
discord  spurred  most  of  the  migrations  of  peoples  southward  toward 
the  forest  belt. 

The  dense  rain  forest  covering  the  southern  half  of  the  country 
created  barriers  to  large-scale  political  organizations  as  seen  farther 


5 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Empire  of  Samory 
—  -  —         Empire  of  Kong 

  Abron  Kingdom 

■hhb  Baoule  Kingdom 
  Indenie  Kingdom 


Present 
international 
boundary 

Precolonial 
kingdom 
capital 

Kilometers 


 Sanwi  Kingdom 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  J. -N.  Loucou,  "Histoire,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  25. 


Figure  2.  Precolonial  Kingdoms 

north.  Inhabitants  lived  in  villages  or  clusters  of  villages  whose  con- 
tacts with  the  outside  world  were  filtered  through  long-distance 
traders.  Villagers  subsisted  on  agriculture  and  hunting. 

Five  important  states  flourished  in  Cote  d'lvoire  in  the  pre- 
European  era  (see  fig.  2).  The  Muslim  empire  of  Kong  was  estab- 
lished by  the  Juula  in  the  early  eighteenth  century  in  the  north-central 
region  inhabited  by  the  Senoufo,  who  had  fled  Islamization  under 
the  Mali  Empire  (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages,  ch.  2). 


6 


Historical  Setting 


Although  Kong  became  a  prosperous  center  of  agriculture,  trade, 
and  crafts,  ethnic  diversity  and  religious  discord  gradually  weakened 
the  kingdom.  The  city  of  Kong  was  destroyed  in  1895  by  Samori 
Toure  (see  Local  Resistance  and  Establishment  of  Protectorates, 
this  ch.). 

The  Abron  kingdom  of  Jaman  was  established  in  the  seventeenth 
century  by  an  Akan  group,  the  Abron,  who  had  fled  the  develop- 
ing Asante  confederation  in  what  is  present-day  Ghana.  From  their 
settlement  south  of  Bondoukou,  the  Abron  gradually  extended  their 
hegemony  over  the  Juula  in  Bondoukou,  who  were  recent  emigres 
from  the  market  city  of  Begho.  Bondoukou  developed  into  a  major 
center  of  commerce  and  Islam.  The  kingdom's  Quranic  scholars 
attracted  students  from  all  parts  of  West  Africa. 

In  the  mid-eighteenth  century  in  east-central  Cote  d'lvoire,  other 
Akan  groups  fleeing  the  Asante  established  a  Baoule  kingdom  at 
Sakasso  and  two  Agni  kingdoms,  Indenie  and  Sanwi.  The  Baoule, 
like  the  Asante,  elaborated  a  highly  centralized  political  and  ad- 
ministrative structure  under  three  successive  rulers,  but  it  finally 
split  into  smaller  chiefdoms.  Despite  the  breakup  of  their  kingdom, 
the  Baoule  strongly  resisted  French  subjugation.  The  descendants 
of  the  rulers  of  the  Agni  kingdoms  tried  to  retain  their  separate 
identity  long  after  Cote  dTvoire's  independence;  as  late  as  1969, 
the  Sanwi  of  Krinjabo  attempted  to  break  away  from  Cote  d'lvoire 
and  form  an  independent  kingdom. 

Arrival  of  the  Europeans 

The  African  continent,  situated  between  Europe  and  the  im- 
agined treasures  of  the  Far  East,  quickly  became  the  destination 
of  the  European  explorers  of  the  fifteenth  century.  The  first  Euro- 
peans to  explore  the  West  African  coast  were  the  Portuguese.  Other 
European  sea  powers  soon  followed,  and  trade  was  established  with 
many  of  the  coastal  peoples  of  West  Africa.  At  first,  the  trade  in- 
cluded gold,  ivory,  and  pepper,  but  the  establishment  of  Ameri- 
can colonies  in  the  sixteenth  century  spurred  a  demand  for  slaves, 
who  soon  became  the  major  export  from  the  West  African  coastal 
regions.  Local  rulers,  under  treaties  with  the  Europeans,  procured 
goods  and  slaves  from  inhabitants  of  the  interior.  By  the  end  of 
the  fifteenth  century,  commercial  contacts  with  Europe  had  spawned 
strong  European  influences,  which  permeated  areas  northward  from 
the  West  African  coast. 

Cote  d'lvoire,  like  the  rest  of  West  Africa,  was  subject  to  these 
influences,  but  the  absence  of  sheltered  harbors  along  its  coastline 
prevented  Europeans  from  establishing  permanent  trading  posts. 
Seaborne  trade,  therefore,  was  irregular  and  played  only  a  minor 


7 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

role  in  the  penetration  and  eventual  conquest  by  Europeans  of  Cote 
d'lvoire.  The  slave  trade,  in  particular,  had  little  effect  on  the  peo- 
ples of  Cote  d'lvoire.  A  profitable  trade  in  ivory,  which  gave  the 
area  its  name,  was  carried  out  during  the  seventeenth  century,  but 
it  brought  about  such  a  decline  in  elephants  that  the  trade  itself 
virtually  had  died  out  by  the  beginning  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  earliest  recorded  French  voyage  to  West  Africa  took  place 
in  1483.  The  first  West  African  French  settlement,  Saint  Louis, 
was  founded  in  the  mid-seventeenth  century  in  Senegal,  while  at 
about  the  same  time  the  Dutch  ceded  to  the  French  a  settlement 
at  He  de  Goree  off  Dakar.  A  French  mission  was  established  in 
1687  at  Assini,  and  it  became  the  first  European  outpost  in  that 
area.  Assini' s  survival  was  precarious,  however,  and  only  in  the 
mid-nineteenth  century  did  the  French  establish  themselves  firmly 
in  Cote  d'lvoire.  By  that  time,  they  had  already  established  settle- 
ments around  the  mouth  of  the  Senegal  River  and  at  other  points 
along  the  coasts  of  what  are  now  Senegal,  Gambia,  and  Guinea- 
Bissau.  Meanwhile,  the  British  had  permanent  outposts  in  the  same 
areas  and  on  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  east  of  Cote  d'lvoire. 

Activity  along  the  coast  stimulated  European  interest  in  the  in- 
terior, especially  along  the  two  great  rivers,  the  Senegal  and  the 
Niger.  Concerted  French  exploration  of  West  Africa  began  in  the 
mid-nineteenth  century  but  moved  slowly  and  was  based  more  on 
individual  initiative  than  on  government  policy.  In  the  1840s,  the 
French  concluded  a  series  of  treaties  with  local  West  African  rulers 
that  enabled  the  French  to  build  fortified  posts  along  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea  to  serve  as  permanent  trading  centers.  The  first  posts  in 
Cote  d'lvoire  included  one  at  Assini  and  another  at  Grand-Bassam, 
which  became  the  colony's  first  capital.  The  treaties  provided  for 
French  sovereignty  within  the  posts  and  for  trading  privileges  in 
exchange  for  fees  or  coutumes  (see  Glossary)  paid  annually  to  the 
local  rulers  for  the  use  of  the  land.  The  arrangement  was  not  en- 
tirely satisfactory  to  the  French  because  trade  was  limited  and  mis- 
understandings over  treaty  obligations  often  arose.  Nevertheless, 
the  French  government  maintained  the  treaties,  hoping  to  expand 
trade.  France  also  wanted  to  maintain  a  presence  in  the  region  to 
stem  the  increasing  influence  of  the  British  along  the  Gulf  of  Guinea 
coast. 

The  defeat  of  France  in  the  Franco-Prussian  War  (1871)  and 
the  subsequent  annexation  by  Germany  of  the  French  region  of 
Alsace-Lorraine  caused  the  French  government  to  abandon  its 
colonial  ambitions  and  withdraw  its  military  garrisons  from  its 
French  West  African  trading  posts,  leaving  them  in  the  care  of  resi- 
dent merchants.  The  trading  post  at  Grand-Bassam  in  Cote  d'lvoire 


8 


The  mosque  at  Kong,  ca.  1897.  Engraving  from  Louis  Gustave  Binger, 
Du  Niger  aii  Golfe  de  Guinee,  Paris,  1892. 


was  left  in  the  care  of  a  shipper  from  Marseille,  Arthur  Verdier, 
who  in  1878  was  named  resident  of  the  Establishment  of  Cote 
d'lvoire. 

French  Expansion  in  Cote  d'lvoire 

In  1885  France  and  Germany  brought  all  the  European  powers 
with  interests  in  Africa  together  at  the  Berlin  Conference.  Its  prin- 
cipal objective  was  to  rationalize  what  became  known  as  the  Euro- 
pean scramble  for  colonies  in  Africa.  Prince  Otto  von  Bismarck 
also  wanted  a  greater  role  in  Africa  for  Germany,  which  he  thought 
he  could  achieve  in  part  by  fostering  competition  between  France 
and  Britain.  The  agreement  signed  by  all  participants  in  1885  stipu- 
lated that  on  the  African  coastline  only  European  annexations  or 
spheres  of  influence  that  involved  effective  occupation  by  Euro- 
peans would  be  recognized.  Another  agreement  in  1890  extended 
this  rule  to  the  interior  of  Africa  and  set  off  a  scramble  for  terri- 
tory, primarily  by  France,  Britain,  Portugal,  and  Belgium. 

Local  Resistance  and  Establishment  of  Protectorates 

In  1886,  to  support  its  claims  of  effective  occupation,  France  again 
assumed  direct  control  of  its  West  African  coastal  trading  posts  and 
embarked  on  an  accelerated  program  of  exploration  in  the  interior. 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

In  1887  Lieutenant  Louis  Binger  began  a  two-year  journey  that 
traversed  parts  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  interior.  By  the  end  of  the  jour- 
ney, he  had  concluded  four  treaties  establishing  French  protectorates 
in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Also  in  1887,  Verdier's  agent,  Maurice  Treich- 
Laplene,  negotiated  five  additional  agreements  that  extended 
French  influence  from  the  headwaters  of  the  Niger  River  Basin 
through  Cote  d'lvoire. 

By  the  end  of  the  1880s,  France  had  established  what  passed  for 
effective  control  over  the  coastal  regions  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  and  in 
1889  Britain  recognized  French  sovereignty  in  the  area.  That  same 
year,  France  named  Treich-Laplene  titular  governor  of  the  terri- 
tory. In  1893  Cote  d'lvoire  was  made  a  French  colony,  and  then 
Captain  Binger  was  appointed  governor.  Agreements  with  Liberia 
in  1892  and  with  Britain  in  1893  determined  the  eastern  and  western 
boundaries  of  the  colony,  but  the  northern  boundary  was  not  fixed 
until  1947  because  of  efforts  by  the  French  government  to  attach 
parts  of  Upper  Volta  (present-day  Burkina  Faso)  and  French  Sudan 
(present-day  Mali)  to  Cote  d'lvoire  for  economic  and  administra- 
tive reasons. 

Throughout  the  process  of  partition,  the  Africans  were  little  con- 
cerned with  the  occasional  white  person  who  came  wandering  by. 
Many  local  rulers  in  small,  isolated  communities  did  not  under- 
stand or,  more  often,  were  misled  by  the  Europeans  about  the  sig- 
nificance of  treaties  that  compromised  their  authority.  Other  local 
leaders,  however,  thought  that  the  Europeans  could  solve  economic 
problems  or  become  allies  in  the  event  of  a  dispute  with  belliger- 
ent neighbors.  In  the  end,  the  loss  of  land  and  freedom  by  all  the 
local  rulers  resulted  more  from  their  inability  to  counter  European 
deception  and  brute  strength  than  from  a  loss  of  will  to  respond 
to  European  encroachment. 

Throughout  the  early  years  of  French  rule,  French  military  con- 
tingents were  sent  inland  to  establish  new  posts.  The  African  popu- 
lation resisted  French  penetration  and  settlement,  even  in  areas 
where  treaties  of  protection  had  been  in  force.  Among  those  offer- 
ing greatest  resistance  was  Samori  Toure,  who  in  the  1880s  and 
1890s  was  establishing  an  empire  that  extended  over  large  parts 
of  present-day  Guinea,  Mali,  Burkina  Faso,  and  Cote  d'lvoire. 
Samori' s  large,  well-equipped  army,  which  could  manufacture  and 
repair  its  own  firearms,  attracted  strong  support  throughout  the 
region.  The  French  responded  to  Samori 's  expansion  of  regional 
control  with  military  pressure.  French  campaigns  against  Samori, 
which  were  met  with  fierce  resistance,  intensified  in  the  mid- 1890s 
until  he  was  captured  in  1898. 


10 


Akan  chief  in  traditional  attire 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 


France's  imposition  of  a  head  tax  in  1900,  aimed  at  enabling 
the  colony  to  undertake  a  public  works  program,  provoked  a  num- 
ber of  revolts.  Ivoirians  viewed  the  tax  as  a  violation  of  the  terms 
of  the  protectorate  treaties  because  it  seemed  that  France  was  now 
demanding  the  equivalent  of  a  coutume  from  the  local  kings  rather 
than  the  reverse.  Much  of  the  population,  especially  in  the  interior, 
also  considered  the  tax  a  humiliating  symbol  of  submission. 

Repression  and  Conquest 

In  1906  Gabriel  Angoulvant  was  appointed  governor  of  Cote 
d'lvoire.  Angoulvant,  who  had  little  prior  experience  in  Africa, 
believed  that  the  development  of  Cote  d'lvoire  could  proceed  only 
after  the  forceful  conquest,  or  so-called  pacification,  of  the  colony. 
He  thus  embarked  on  a  vigorous  campaign,  sending  military  expe- 
ditions into  the  hinterland  to  quell  resistance.  As  a  result  of  these 
expeditions,  local  rulers  were  compelled  to  obey  existing  antislavery 
laws,  supply  porters  and  food  to  the  French  forces,  and  ensure  the 
protection  of  French  trade  and  personnel.  In  return,  the  French 
agreed  to  leave  local  customs  intact  and  specifically  promised  not 
to  intervene  in  the  selection  of  rulers.  But  the  French  often  dis- 
regarded their  side  of  the  agreement,  deporting  or  interning  rulers 
regarded  as  instigators  of  revolt.  They  also  regrouped  villages  and 
established  a  uniform  administration  throughout  most  of  the  colony. 


11 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Finally,  they  replaced  the  coutume  with  an  allowance  based  on  per- 
formance. 

French  Rule  Until  World  War  II 

Evolution  of  Colonial  Policy 

French  colonial  policy  incorporated  concepts  of  assimilation  and 
association.  Assimilation  presupposed  the  inherent  superiority  of 
French  culture  over  all  others,  so  that  in  practice  the  assimilation 
policy  in  the  colonies  meant  extension  of  the  French  language,  in- 
stitutions, laws,  and  customs. 

The  policy  of  association  also  affirmed  the  superiority  of  the 
French  in  the  colonies,  but  it  entailed  different  institutions  and  sys- 
tems of  laws  for  the  colonizer  and  the  colonized.  Under  this  pol- 
icy, the  Africans  in  Cote  d'lvoire  were  allowed  to  preserve  their 
own  customs  insofar  as  they  were  compatible  with  French  interests. 
An  indigenous  elite  trained  in  French  administrative  practice  formed 
an  intermediary  group  between  the  French  and  the  Africans. 

Assimilation  was  practiced  in  Cote  d'lvoire  to  the  extent  that 
after  1930  a  small  number  of  Westernized  Ivoirians  were  granted 
the  right  to  apply  for  French  citizenship.  Most  Ivoirians,  however, 
were  classified  as  French  subjects  and  were  governed  under  the 
principle  of  association. 

Until  1958,  governors  appointed  in  Paris  administered  the  col- 
ony of  Cote  d'lvoire,  using  a  system  of  direct,  centralized  adminis- 
tration that  left  little  room  for  Ivoirian  participation  in  policy  making. 
The  French  colonial  administration  also  adopted  divide-and-rule 
policies,  applying  ideas  of  assimilation  only  to  the  educated  elite. 
The  French  were  also  interested  in  ensuring  that  the  small  but  in- 
fluential elite  was  sufficiently  satisfied  with  the  status  quo  to  refrain 
from  any  anti- French  sentiment.  In  fact,  although  they  were  strongly 
opposed  to  the  practices  of  association,  educated  Ivoirians  believed 
that  they  would  achieve  equality  with  their  French  peers  through 
assimilation  rather  than  through  complete  independence  from 
France,  a  change  that  would  eliminate  the  enormous  economic  ad- 
vantages of  remaining  a  French  possession.  But  after  the  assimila- 
tion doctrine  was  implemented  entirely,  at  least  in  principle,  through 
the  postwar  reforms,  Ivoirian  leaders  realized  that  even  assimilation 
implied  the  superiority  of  the  French  over  the  Ivoirians  and  that 
discrimination  and  inequality  would  end  only  with  independence. 

Colonial  Administration 

French  expansion  in  Africa  during  the  last  quarter  of  the 
nineteenth  century  was  so  rapid  that  it  was  difficult  to  find  enough 


12 


Captain  Louis  Binger  and  Maurice  Teich-Laplene.  Engravings  from  Louis 
Gustave  Binger,  Du  Niger  au  Golfe  de  Guinee,  Paris,  1892. 

administrators  to  govern  the  growing  number  of  possessions 
effectively.  For  a  brief  period,  therefore,  the  French  adopted  a  sys- 
tem of  indirect  rule  using  indigenous  leaders  as  their  surrogates. 
The  local  rulers,  however,  exercised  authority  only  by  sanction  of 
the  French  administrators.  Those  rulers  who  refused  to  submit  to 
French  directives  were  deposed  and  replaced  with  more  coopera- 
tive ones. 

With  the  consolidation  of  French  power  in  West  Africa  at  the 
end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  French  officials  increasingly  assumed 
direct  administrative  powers,  and  they  reduced  local  rulers  to  the 
level  of  low-ranking  civil  servants.  In  1895  France  grouped  the 
French  West  African  colonies  of  Cote  dTvoire,  Dahomey  (present- 
day  Benin),  Guinea,  Niger,  French  Sudan  (present-day  Mali), 
Senegal,  Upper  Volta,  and  Mauritania  together  and  subordinated 
their  governors  to  the  governor  of  Senegal,  who  became  governor 
general.  A  series  of  additional  decrees  in  1904  defined  the  struc- 
ture of  this  political  unit  and  organized  it  into  French  West  Africa 
(Afrique  Occidentale  Francaise — AOF;  see  Glossary). 

France  divided  the  individual  colonies  into  districts  known 
as  cercles,  each  of  which  was  governed  by  a  district  commander 


13 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


(commandant  du  cercle)  who,  because  of  poor  communications  between 
the  cercles  and  the  colonial  governors,  exercised  his  responsibilities 
with  relative  autonomy.  Within  a  cercle,  the  commander  ruled 
through  a  hierarchy  of  local  rulers,  whom  he  appointed  and  could 
dismiss  at  will.  He  was  advised  by  a  council  of  notables  (conseil  des 
notables)  consisting  of  these  local  rulers  and  of  other  individuals  ap- 
pointed by  him. 

Most  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  colonies  were  subjects  of  France 
with  no  political  rights.  Moreover,  they  were  drafted  for  work  in 
mines,  on  plantations,  as  porters,  and  on  public  projects  as  part 
of  their  tax  responsibility.  They  were  also  expected  to  serve  in  the 
military  and  were  subject  to  the  indigenat  (see  Glossary),  a  separate 
system  of  law. 

Economic  Development  and  Social  Change 

As  France  consolidated  its  holdings  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  it  began 
to  take  steps  to  make  the  colony  self-supporting.  In  1900  the  French 
initiated  a  policy  that  made  each  colony  responsible  for  securing 
the  resources — both  money  and  personnel — needed  for  its  adminis- 
tration and  defense;  France  would  offer  assistance  only  when  needed. 

The  public  works  programs  undertaken  by  the  Ivoirian  colonial 
government  and  the  exploitation  of  natural  resources  required  mas- 
sive commitments  of  labor.  The  French  therefore  imposed  a  sys- 
tem of  forced  labor  under  which  each  male  adult  Ivoirian  was 
required  to  work  for  ten  days  each  year  without  compensation  as 
part  of  his  obligation  to  the  state.  The  system  was  subject  to  ex- 
treme misuse  and  was  the  most  hated  aspect  of  French  colonial  rule. 
Because  the  population  of  Cote  d'lvoire  was  insufficient  to  meet 
the  labor  demand  on  French  plantations  and  forests,  which  were 
among  the  greatest  users  of  labor  in  the  AOF,  the  French  recruited 
large  numbers  of  workers  from  Upper  Volta  to  work  in  Cote 
d'lvoire.  This  source  of  labor  was  so  important  to  the  economic 
life  of  Cote  d'lvoire  that  in  1932  the  AOF  annexed  a  large  part 
of  Upper  Volta  to  Cote  d'lvoire  and  administered  it  as  a  single 
colony. 

In  addition  to  the  political  and  economic  changes  produced  by 
colonial  rule,  the  French  also  introduced  social  institutions  that 
brought  about  fundamental  changes  to  Ivoirian  culture.  Catholic 
missionaries  established  a  network  of  churches  and  primary  schools, 
which  in  time  provided  the  literate  Ivoirians  needed  by  govern- 
ment and  commerce.  Some  of  the  wealthier  and  more  ambitious 
Ivoirians  continued  their  educations  at  the  few  secondary  schools 
and  at  French  universities,  adopting  European  culture  and  values 


14 


Koulango  village.  Engraving  from  Louis  Gustave  Binger,  Du  Niger  ail 

Golfe  de  Guinee,  Paris,  1892. 


15 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


and  becoming  members  of  a  new  African  elite.  The  members  of 
this  elite  were  accepted  as  cultural  and  social  equals  by  their  white 
counterparts  and  were  exempt  from  military  and  labor  service. 

Except  in  remote  rural  areas,  the  colonial  government  gradually 
destroyed  the  traditional  elite  by  reducing  the  local  rulers  to  junior 
civil  servants  and  by  indiscriminately  appointing  as  rulers  people 
with  no  legitimate  claims  to  such  titles.  In  areas  where  traditional 
leaders  retained  their  position  and  power,  they  often  developed 
strong  rivalries  with  educated  Ivoirians  who  tried  to  usurp  that 
leadership  on  the  grounds  that  their  education  and  modern  out- 
look better  suited  them  for  the  position. 

Impact  of  World  War  II 

World  War  II  had  a  profound  effect  on  the  future  of  all  French 
West  Africa.  The  fall  of  France  and  the  establishment  of  the 
German- allied  Vichy  government  in  France  forced  the  French  colo- 
nies to  declare  loyalty  either  to  the  Vichy  regime  or  to  the  Free 
French  under  General  Charles  de  Gaulle.  Although  all  the  AOF 
governors  remained  loyal  to  the  Vichy  government,  Ivoirians  largely 
favored  the  Free  French. 

The  Vichy  government,  espousing  Nazi  racial  theories,  subjected 
French  West  Africa  to  economic  exploitation  and  overt  racism. 
French  planters  intensified  their  labor  recruitment  practices  and 
military  conscription.  Farmers  were  forced  to  meet  production 
quotas  to  supply  the  armed  forces  at  the  expense  of  the  local  resi- 
dents, whose  standard  of  living  had  already  been  greatly  lowered 
by  the  cutoff  of  imports  from  Europe. 

The  onset  of  World  War  II  and  the  rapid  surrender  of  France, 
the  self-described  purveyor  of  a  so-called  higher  civilization,  sharply 
revised  political  thinking  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Ivoirians  resented  Vichy 
policies  and  began  to  express  feelings  of  Ivoirian  nationalism. 
Ivoirian  intellectuals  were  attracted  by  some  of  the  Marxist  ideas 
introduced  by  anti-Nazi  movements  and  by  some  French  teachers 
and  labor  organizers.  In  1943  branches  of  an  organization  known 
as  Communist  Study  Groups  were  established  in  the  principal  cities 
of  West  Africa,  including  Abidjan  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Many  Afri- 
can intellectuals  in  these  groups  later  became  prominent  as  post- 
war national  leaders. 

Brazzaville  Conference 

After  the  defeat  of  France  and  the  alignment  of  many  West  Afri- 
cans with  the  Free  French,  the  political  maturity  of  the  indigenous 
populations  developed.  De  Gaulle  recognized  the  need  to  revise 
the  relationship  between  France  and  its  colonies  in  Africa.  In 


16 


Historical  Setting 


January  1944,  Free  French  politicians  and  high-ranking  colonial 
officials  from  the  French  African  colonies  met  in  Brazzaville  (in 
present-day  Congo).  The  Brazzaville  Conference,  as  it  came  to  be 
known,  recommended  political,  social,  and  economic  reforms.  It 
accepted  the  representation  of  the  colonies  in  the  French  Consti- 
tuent Assembly,  which  was  to  draw  up  a  new  French  constitution 
after  the  war,  and  the  subsequent  representation  of  the  colonies 
in  whatever  parliamentary  body  the  constitution  established.  The 
conference  also  recommended  that  the  colonies  be  administered 
with  greater  autonomy  and  that  both  French  citizens  and  Africans 
be  permitted  to  elect  a  legislative  assembly.  In  addition,  the  con- 
ference committed  the  French  government  to  respect  local  customs, 
abolish  the  indigenat,  adopt  a  new  penal  code,  end  labor  conscrip- 
tion, improve  health  and  educational  facilities,  and  open  positions 
in  the  colonial  administration  to  Africans. 

The  only  immediate  effect  of  the  conference  was  the  passage  of 
a  law  in  August  1944  granting  workers  in  the  AOF  the  right  to 
organize.  In  October  1945,  after  the  defeat  of  Germany  and  the 
end  of  the  war,  the  first  countrywide  elections  were  held  in  Cote 
dTvoire  to  choose  two  delegates  for  the  French  Constituent  As- 
sembly, which  was  to  meet  in  Paris  before  the  end  of  the  year. 
French  citizens  residing  in  Cote  dTvoire  elected  one  delegate,  and 
a  restricted  African  electorate  chose  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny  as 
the  other  delegate.  Houphouet-Boigny,  a  wealthy  African  planter 
and  French-educated  physician,  was  the  cofounder  of  the  African 
Agricultural  Union  (Syndicat  Agricole  Africain — SAA),  which  was 
formed  in  1944  to  fight  for  the  abolition  of  forced  labor  and  the 
rights  of  African  planters.  Much  of  Houphouet-Boigny' s  support 
came  from  the  SAA,  whose  members  included  some  20,000  Afri- 
can planters  as  well  as  laborers,  civil  servants,  traders,  and  other 
Africans  engaged  in  the  money  economy.  In  spite  of  his  popularity, 
however,  Houphouet-Boigny  won  by  only  a  narrow  margin. 

Two  factors  explain  the  closeness  of  the  vote.  First,  the  French 
colonial  administration  disapproved  of  the  SAA  and  consequently 
supported  the  candidacy  of  a  Mossi,  costing  Houphouet-Boigny 
the  votes  of  the  majority  of  Mossi,  who  constituted  one  of  the  lar- 
gest ethnic  groups  in  Upper  Volta.  And  second,  Houphouet- 
Boigny,  a  Baoule,  faced  rival  candidates  from  the  Bete  and  Agni 
ethnic  groups.  Houphouet-Boigny' s  support  came  from  most  of 
the  rural  voters  in  the  south  and  the  forest  area,  but  he  would  not 
have  won  the  election  without  the  support  of  most  of  the  voters 
in  the  Bobo  Dioulasso  region  in  Upper  Volta  (a  part  of  Cote  d'lvoire's 
annexed  territory). 


17 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


When  the  French  Constituent  Assembly  met  in  Paris,  63  of  the 
600  delegates  represented  the  African  colonies.  The  African 
delegates,  all  members  of  the  educated  elite,  demanded  liberal  re- 
forms in  the  colonial  system,  for  which  they  received  support  from 
French  socialist  and  communist  delegates.  In  the  end,  the  assem- 
bly reevaluated  colonial  policy  and  drafted  a  plan  for  the  union 
of  France  and  the  colonies. 

In  addition  to  abolishing  the  indigenat  and  forced  labor  system, 
in  1945  and  1946  the  French  government  decreed  a  number  of  other 
important  reforms  concerning  Africans.  It  granted  freedom  of 
speech,  association,  and  assembly  to  the  residents  of  the  colonies; 
it  provided  funds  for  economic  and  social  development;  it  permit- 
ted the  AOF  to  adopt  a  new  penal  code;  and  it  granted  all  inhabi- 
tants of  French  colonies  French  citizenship.  France's  failure  to  define 
closely  the  rights  of  citizenship,  however,  prevented  the  indigenous 
populations  of  the  colonies  from  the  full  exercise  of  civil  rights  on 
the  grounds  that  they  were  not  yet  ready  for  it. 

French  Union 

The  first  draft  of  the  French  Fourth  Republic's  constitution, 
which  included  whole  passages  of  the  Brazzaville  recommendations, 
proved  too  liberal  for  the  French  electorate,  which  rejected  it  in 
a  May  1946  referendum.  When  a  second  Constituent  Assembly 
convened  in  June,  pressure  from  conservative  elements  in  France 
and  in  the  colonies  was  strong,  and  sharp  differences  of  opinion 
developed  among  the  delegates.  The  advocates  of  colonial  auton- 
omy included  all  the  colonial  deputies  and  the  French  political  left 
wing.  Most  African  deputies,  including  Houphouet-Boigny,  sup- 
ported the  idea  of  local  self-government  and  political  equality  for 
the  French  and  the  Africans.  The  French  political  right  and  center, 
however,  favored  a  nominally  federalist  system,  within  which  France 
would  preserve  its  dominant  position.  A  compromise  was  finally 
reached,  and  the  plan  for  the  French  Union  was  written  into  a  new 
draft  constitution,  which  was  adopted  by  the  assembly  on  September 
28,  1946.  It  was  approved  as  the  constitution  of  the  Fourth  Republic 
in  a  referendum  held  in  France  and  the  overseas  possessions  on 
October  13,  1946. 

Under  the  French  Union,  the  French  West  African  colonies  were 
designated  as  overseas  territories.  The  French  government  exer- 
cised all  legislative  and  executive  powers,  and  the  administration 
of  Cote  d'lvoire  continued  under  the  French  Ministry  of  Over- 
seas Departments  and  Territories. 

Despite  the  acceptance  of  the  French  Union  in  Cote  d'lvoire, 
longstanding  economic  grievances  gave  rise  to  the  development  of 


18 


Colonial  architecture, 
Grand-Bassam 
Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 


anticolonial  sentiment.  With  the  large-scale  introduction  of  cash 
crops  between  World  War  I  and  World  War  II,  a  wealthy  African 
planter  class  emerged.  These  Africans  competed  with  Europeans 
who  had  come  to  Cote  d'lvoire  to  make  their  fortunes.  Colonial 
policies  strongly  favored  the  Europeans:  they  received  free  labor 
under  the  forced  labor  system,  higher  prices  for  their  crops,  and 
access  to  protected  markets.  African  resentment  against  this  dis- 
crimination grew  during  World  War  II,  when  economic  hardships 
weighed  especially  heavily  on  African  plantation  owners. 

The  rights  to  free  speech  and  assembly,  guaranteed  by  the  con- 
stitutional reforms  of  1946,  permitted  the  formation  of  African  po- 
litical parties.  A  number  of  parties  based  on  ethnic  and  regional 
interests  were  organized  in  Cote  d'lvoire  and  elected  members  to 
the  Territorial  Assembly,  created  as  a  result  of  the  1946  reforms, 
and  the  Abidjan  municipal  council.  The  Democratic  Party  of  Cote 
d'lvoire  (Parti  Democratique  de  Cote  d'lvoire — PDCI),  created 
in  1946  out  of  the  SAA  to  appeal  to  a  wider  following  than  its 
predecessor,  became  the  dominant  party.  It  soon  attracted  the  rad- 
ical intellectuals  from  the  wartime  Communist  Study  Groups  and 
became  a  significant  political  force  in  French  West  Africa.  Its  leader, 
Houphouet-Boigny,  was  rapidly  becoming  a  prominent  national 
figure.  Having  successfully  sponsored  the  law  abolishing  forced 
labor,  he  had  regained  support  from  the  Mossi  of  Upper  Volta. 
He  served  in  1946  as  a  delegate  to  the  French  Constituent  Assembly 


19 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

and,  later  that  year,  to  the  newly  constituted  French  National  As- 
sembly. 

Regional  Political  Cooperation 

Increasing  political  activity  and  a  growing  national  conscious- 
ness were  both  responsible  for  and  stimulated  by  the  postwar 
constitutional  reforms.  Pressure  from  the  SAA  and  similar  organi- 
zations in  other  territories  brought  about  most  of  the  1946  reforms. 
The  reforms  grouped  the  territories  into  the  AOF  under  one  elected 
council,  the  Grand  Council  in  Dakar,  thereby  encouraging  cooper- 
ation across  territorial  boundaries.  As  a  result,  in  1947  Houphouet- 
Boigny  and  several  other  French  West  African  leaders  formed  the 
African  Democratic  Rally  (Rassemblement  Democratique  Africain — 
RDA). 

The  RDA  was  established  during  a  critical  period  in  French  his- 
tory. In  1946  and  1947,  France  was  confronted  by  open  rebellion 
in  Indochina  and  Madagascar  and  by  unrest  in  North  Africa.  Inter- 
nally, the  alliance  between  conservatives  and  communists,  uneasy 
from  the  start,  was  collapsing.  The  French  viewed  the  RDA,  which 
called  for  full  equality  and  consequentiy  enjoyed  the  support  of  Afri- 
can and  French  communists,  as  another  serious  threat  to  French 
colonial  interests.  As  a  result,  the  French  colonial  administration 
harassed  the  RDA,  which  was  also  opposed  by  Africans  allied  with 
the  more  moderate  French  Socialist  Party.  Nevertheless,  the  RDA 
soon  emerged  as  the  dominant  political  force  in  French  West  Africa, 
and  Cote  dTvoire,  where  African  and  European  planters  were  in 
direct  competition,  provided  the  most  fertile  ground  for  recruiting 
a  militant  African  party.  Consequently,  Cote  dTvoire  became  the 
stronghold  of  the  RDA,  and  Houphouet-Boigny  became  the  RDA 
leader.  Thus,  France  also  considered  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Houphouet- 
Boigny' s  party,  the  PDCI,  as  threats  to  French  colonial  rule. 

After  a  strongly  conservative  and  discriminatory  colonial  adminis- 
tration was  installed  in  1947,  relations  between  the  PDCI  and  the 
administration  became  openly  hostile.  The  administration  actively 
sponsored  rival  parties  and  manipulated  elections.  It  dismissed 
PDCI  supporters  from  government  jobs  and  jailed  most  PDCI 
leaders.  Only  his  parliamentary  immunity  enabled  Houphouet- 
Boigny  to  escape  imprisonment.  The  PDCI  retaliated  by  organiz- 
ing strikes,  boycotts  of  European  goods  and  services,  and  mass 
demonstrations.  In  1949  the  hostility  erupted  into  violence  as 
government  troops  fired  on  African  demonstrators  on  several  oc- 
casions. 

By  1951  the  PDCI  was  close  to  collapse.  Its  alliance,  through 
the  RDA,  with  the  French  Communist  Party  had  alienated  the  more 


20 


Historical  Setting 


moderate  elements  of  the  party.  Government-sponsored  rival  parties 
had  eroded  much  of  its  popular  support  and  drastically  weakened 
its  position  in  elective  bodies  of  the  French  Union.  Houphouet- 
Boigny,  in  a  radical  effort  to  preserve  the  PDCI,  severed  connec- 
tions with  the  French  Communist  Party  and  expelled  the  RDA's 
secretary  general,  who  supported  the  communist  association.  He 
then  abandoned  the  PDCI  policy  of  militant  opposition  to  the  ad- 
ministration and  embarked  on  a  policy  of  practical  cooperation. 
This  policy  change  restored  the  strength  and  prestige  of  the  PDCI 
at  home  and  of  the  RDA  in  the  rest  of  the  AOF  and  France.  Also, 
it  led  to  political  concessions  as  well  as  significant  economic  cooper- 
ation with  France  and  members  of  the  local  French  community. 
Within  a  short  time,  Cote  dT voire  became  the  wealthiest  territory 
in  the  AOF. 

Transformation  of  the  Democratic  Party  of 
Cote  d'lvoire 

By  the  end  of  1946,  the  PDCI  achieved  its  political  monopoly 
by  bargaining  with  potential  contenders,  rather  than  through  open 
competition.  In  any  event,  the  party  received  widespread  support 
throughout  the  country.  For  example,  an  African  could  be  elected 
in  Cote  d'lvoire  only  with  the  endorsement  of  the  PDCI. 

The  organization  of  the  PDCI,  based  on  that  of  the  French  Com- 
munist Party,  was  determined  during  the  party's  First  Territorial 
Congress  in  October  1947.  The  Executive  Committee  presided  over 
party  cells  located  throughout  the  country.  Although  the  PDCI  be- 
came a  direct  party,  operating  on  the  principle  of  democratic  cen- 
tralism, it  deviated  from  French  Communist  Party  organization 
in  that  it  was  not  a  vanguard  party  with  restricted  membership. 
Instead,  it  became  a  mass  organization  whose  members  were  re- 
quired only  to  purchase  a  party  card  and  pay  annual  dues. 

Ideologically,  the  PDCI  discouraged  the  transition  to  indepen- 
dence or  even  greater  democracy  on  the  pretext  that  intraparty  dis- 
agreements prevented  the  party  from  implementing  its  democratic 
governing  mechanisms.  Instead,  the  PCDI's  leadership  gave 
Houphouet-Boigny  almost  autocratic  control.  In  addition,  sous- 
section  (subsection  at  the  cercle  level)  officials  and  others  in  positions 
of  responsibility  frequently  nominated  village  committees  in  rural 
areas  instead  of  allowing  them  to  be  elected.  As  a  result,  most  rural 
party  committees  reflected  the  preexisting  ethnic  imbalance.  At  the 
national  level,  PDCI  leaders  had  stipulated  from  the  party's  birth 
that  party  congresses  would  be  held  annually  as  part  of  the 
democratic  process.  In  fact,  by  1956  only  two  had  been  held:  in 


21 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

1947  and  1949.  Consequently,  those  in  party  offices  enjoyed  long, 
uncontested  tenures. 

Reform  and  the  French  Community 

The  reforms  of  1956,  or  lot  cadre,  passed  by  the  French  Fourth 
Republic,  acknowledged  the  growing  nationalism  and  a  develop- 
ing political  consciousness  in  the  AOF.  From  its  inception,  the  loi 
cadre  drew  on  the  suggestions  of  African  leaders  who  were  permit- 
ted to  participate  in  the  decision-making  process. 

Conceptually,  the  loi  cadre  ended  the  integrationalist  phase  of 
French  colonial  policy  and  granted  considerable  internal  auton- 
omy to  the  overseas  territories.  Universal  suffrage  and  the  elimi- 
nation of  the  dual  college  electoral  system  led  to  the  creation  of 
district  and  local  representative  councils  and  a  great  enlargement 
of  the  powers  of  the  territorial  assemblies.  Each  territory  could  for- 
mulate its  own  domestic  policies,  although  the  territories  continued 
to  rely  on  France  for  decisions  concerning  foreign  affairs,  defense, 
higher  education,  and  economic  aid.  As  its  most  important  provi- 
sion, the  loi  cadre  established  the  Council  of  Government,  which 
assumed  the  major  executive  functions  of  each  territory,  until  that 
time  carried  out  by  a  colonial  official  appointed  in  Paris. 

After  the  dissolution  of  the  French  Fourth  Republic  in  1958, 
General  Charles  de  Gaulle,  the  first  president  of  the  Fifth  Republic, 
had  even  more  extensive  reforms  written  into  a  new  constitution, 
reflecting  not  only  de  Gaulle's  own  pragmatic  and  anti- imperialist 
ideas  but  also  the  economic  and  political  changes  that  had  occurred 
since  1946.  The  French  Constitution  of  1958,  creating  the  Fifth 
Republic,  provided  for  the  free  association  of  autonomous  repub- 
lics within  the  newly  created  French  Community,  in  which  France 
was  the  senior  partner.  The  community  had  jurisdiction  over  for- 
eign policy,  defense,  currency,  common  ethnic  and  financial  pol- 
icy, policy  on  strategic  raw  materials,  and,  unless  specifically 
excluded  by  agreement,  higher  education,  internal  and  external 
communications,  and  the  courts.  An  elected  president,  who  was 
also  the  president  of  the  Fifth  Republic,  presided  over  the  com- 
munity's executive,  which  consisted  of  an  executive  council  and 
a  senate  elected  indirectly  by  each  member  state  in  proportion  to 
the  population.  Each  member  state  was  to  have  its  own  govern- 
ment and  a  separate  constitution. 

In  September  1958,  France  presented  a  referendum  to  the  com- 
munity. Each  member  could  accept  the  Constitution  and  conse- 
quent membership  in  the  community  or  reject  it  and  immediately 
sever  all  ties  with  France.  Cote  d'l voire  voted  almost  unanimously 
in  favor  of  the  Constitution,  further  confirming  the  almost  mystical 


22 


Historical  Setting 


feeling  of  brotherhood  with  France  that  more  than  fifty  years  of 
cultural  assimilation  had  instilled,  particularly  among  the  economic 
and  political  elite.  The  elite  prudently  recognized  that  although 
Cote  dTvoire  was  the  wealthiest  French  African  territory,  it  lacked 
the  financial  resources  and  the  trained  work  force  to  develop  as 
rapidly  as  it  could  as  a  member  of  the  community.  Also,  because 
Africanization  of  high-level  posts  within  the  government  had  barely 
begun  in  1957,  too  few  trained  Ivoirians  were  available  to  staff  the 
administration.  A  continued  association  with  France  was  seen  as 
the  pragmatic  course. 

In  March  1959,  Cote  dTvoire  adopted  its  first  constitution  as 
a  self-governing  republic.  It  provided  for  a  unicameral  legislature 
elected  by  universal,  direct  suffrage  and  an  executive  headed  by 
a  prime  minister  elected  by  a  majority  vote  of  the  legislature  and 
responsible  to  it.  The  PDCI  won  all  seats  of  the  newly  formed  legis- 
lature, and  Houphouet-Boigny  resigned  his  post  in  the  French 
government  to  form  the  first  government  of  Cote  dTvoire. 

Independence  and  the  Institutionalization  of  the 
One-Party  System 

In  1959  several  West  African  members  of  the  French  Commu- 
nity formed  the  Mali  Federation.  Although  the  federation  initially 
included  Senegal,  French  Sudan,  Upper  Volta,  and  Dahomey,  all 
but  Senegal  and  French  Sudan  withdrew  quickly  under  pressure 
from  Houphouet-Boigny,  who  regarded  the  federation's  desire  for 
independence  from  France  as  a  threat  to  the  economic  develop- 
ment of  the  former  French  colonies.  Nonetheless,  the  federation 
gained  independence  in  June  1960  and  split  into  the  two  indepen- 
dent nations  of  Senegal  and  Mali. 

Meanwhile,  to  counterbalance  the  Mali  Federation,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  in  1959  successfully  convinced  several  other  West  African 
leaders  to  form  the  Council  of  the  Entente  (Conseil  de  l'Entente — 
Entente) — a  loose  grouping  that  included  Niger,  Dahomey  (present- 
day  Benin),  Upper  Volta  (present-day  Burkina  Faso),  and  Cote 
dTvoire — to  pool  their  resources  for  economic  development. 

Houphouet-Boigny' s  argument  against  independence  quickly 
lost  its  appeal  among  other  members  of  the  French  Community 
following  the  independence  of  Senegal  and  Mali.  In  addition,  in 
early  1960  the  French  government  sponsored  an  amendment  to 
the  1958  Constitution  that  permitted  community  members  to 
gain  complete  independence  but  remain  within  the  community. 
Houphouet-Boigny  was  opposed  to  this  reconstituted  community, 
which  he  considered  a  new  federation,  and  in  August  1960  Cote 


23 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

d'lvoire  withdrew  from  the  community  and  became  independent. 
Houphouet-Boigny  was  the  first  head  of  state. 

On  October  31,  1960,  the  National  Assembly  of  Cote  d'lvoire 
adopted  a  constitution  establishing  an  independent  republic.  Those 
involved  in  the  drafting  of  the  Constitution,  including  Houphouet- 
Boigny  and  other  PDCI  members,  wanted  to  establish  a  strong 
and  stable  government  based  on  democratic  principles.  They  also 
wanted  a  presidential  system  based  on  the  separation  of  powers 
between  the  executive  and  legislative  branches  of  government  and 
an  independent  judiciary.  In  practice,  however,  a  gap  developed 
between  the  democratic  principles  written  into  the  Constitution  and 
political  practice.  The  PDCI  leadership  equated  national  unity  with 
unanimous  support  for  the  PDCI  and  believed  that  competition 
among  political  parties  would  waste  resources  and  destroy  unity. 
Therefore,  election  provisions  made  it  almost  impossible  for  another 
party  to  win  seats  in  the  National  Assembly.  As  the  sole  political 
party,  the  PDCI  came  to  exercise  political  control  over  all  branches 
of  government. 

By  the  late  1960s,  power  was  concentrated  in  the  hands  of 
Houphouet-Boigny,  who,  in  addition  to  his  position  as  president, 
was  also  titular  president  of  the  PDCI.  Loyal  colleagues  received 
positions  of  authority  within  the  police  and  armed  forces,  as  well 
as  in  the  government  and  PDCI.  Philippe  Yace,  who  held  the  po- 
sitions of  secretary  general  of  the  PDCI  and  president  of  the  Na- 
tional Assembly,  was  the  second  most  powerful  figure  in  Cote 
d'lvoire.  The  president  appointed  the  administrative  heads  of  the 
6  departments  (departements),  24  prefectures  (prefectures),  and  107  sub- 
prefectures  (sous-prefectures),  which  constituted  the  administration 
of  Cote  d'lvoire  (see  Local  Government,  ch.  4).  Houphouet-Boigny 
also  selected  the  thirty-five  members  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  (Conseil  Economique  et  Social),  a  government  body,  and, 
with  the  Political  Bureau,  chose  the  members  of  the  National  As- 
sembly. 

Houphouet-Boigny  further  consolidated  his  power  by  circum- 
scribing the  prerogatives  of  the  National  Assembly  (see  The  Na- 
tional Assembly,  ch.  4).  Presidential  and  PDCI  control  of  assembly 
membership  precluded  an  independent  or  opposition  role  by  the 
assembly  in  the  decision-making  process.  At  the  same  time,  the 
existence  of  an  assembly  with  responsibility  for  approving  proposed 
laws  legitimized  the  government's  democratic  pretensions. 
Moreover,  the  PDCI  used  the  assembly  as  a  means  of  co-opting 
potential  government  opponents  and  securing  their  loyalty  by 
providing  deputies  with  a  variety  of  privileges  and  amenities.  Fi- 
nally, the  government  channeled  its  major  decisions  through  the 


24 


Historical  Setting 


assembly  to  the  ethnic  and  interest  groups  that  its  members  sup- 
posedly represented,  thereby  again  giving  the  appearance  of  legiti- 
mate government. 

Houphouet-Boigny  also  took  steps  to  ensure  the  new  regime's 
security.  Although  Cote  d'lvoire  had  no  military  until  more  than 
a  year  after  independence,  one  was  finally  organized  and  strength- 
ened with  French  assistance.  Ivoirian  members  of  the  French  colo- 
nial marine  infantry  who  had  been  born  in  Cote  d'lvoire  were 
transferred  to  Abidjan  in  October  1961  and  formed  the  core  of  the 
first  battalion.  By  late  1962,  the  military  comprised  about  5,300 
soldiers  organized  into  four  battalions  (see  Constitutional,  Legal, 
and  Administrative  Structure,  ch.  5). 

Internal  Dissent  and  Further  Consolidation  of  Power 

Despite  Houphouet-Boigny' s  efforts  to  consolidate  power  and 
build  a  strong  military,  several  events  in  the  early  1960s  demon- 
strated the  vulnerability  of  the  new  regime.  In  1962  a  group  of 
young  radical  PDCI  members,  displeased  with  the  regime's  moder- 
ate policies,  allegedly  planned  to  capture  Houphouet-Boigny  and 
other  party  leaders.  More  than  125  people  were  arrested  and  secretiy 
tried  in  the  president's  hometown  of  Yamoussoukro.  Forty-four 
of  the  alleged  plotters  were  convicted.  In  1963  the  government  an- 
nounced the  discovery  df  another  plot,  which  allegedly  involved 
a  coalition  of  hostile  groups,  including  left-wing  youth,  discontented 
politicians,  and  northerners  who  resented  southern  domination  in 
the  government.  In  April  1971,  Houphouet-Boigny  released  the 
last  of  those  who  had  been  jailed  following  the  1963  trials  and  vir- 
tually admitted  that  the  charges  had  been  baseless. 

Changes  in  Government  and  Party  Structures 

In  1965  Houphouet-Boigny  reorganized  his  administration  to 
accommodate  the  growing  number  of  Ivoirians  qualified  to  fill 
government  positions.  The  four  existing  departements  were  redivided 
into  six  departements  with  twenty-four  prefectures.  A  corresponding 
increase  in  the  number  of  prefects  (prefets)  took  place.  By  the  end 
of  1972,  there  were  115  subprefectures.  This  rise  in  the  number 
of  administrative  subdivisions  facilitated  public  access  to  govern- 
ment offices  that  the  new  civil  code,  implemented  in  1964,  neces- 
sitated. 

Houphouet-Boigny  also  purged  the  party  of  more  than  200  party 
leaders  in  mid- 1964.  The  group  included  five  members  of  the  Po- 
litical Bureau  and  six  members  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  the 
party's  Youth  Auxiliary,  who  had  been  implicated  in  alleged 
treasonous  activities.  In  the  ensuing  overhaul  of  the  party  structure, 


25 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


party  leaders  modified  the  PDCI's  organization  to  parallel  the  re- 
organized state  bureaucracy;  forty-five  new  party  sections,  cor- 
responding to  the  number  of  new  subprefectures  in  1965,  were 
added  to  the  existing  sections.  Each  was  led  by  an  elected  secre- 
tary general.  The  number  of  party  sections  was  increased  again 
in  1970  to  correspond  to  the  increase  in  the  number  of  subprefec- 
tures. The  new  sections  were  subdivided  into  village  committees 
in  rural  areas  and  into  ward  and  ethnic  subcommittees  in  towns. 

Sources  of  Popular  Discontent 

After  independence,  the  production  of  export  cash  crops  such 
as  coffee  and  cocoa  supported  the  development  of  nonagricultural 
economic  growth,  particularly  in  the  Abidjan  area  (see  Growth  and 
Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3).  The  commercial  development 
of  Abidjan  and  its  growing  status  as  the  administrative  center  of 
the  country  consequently  attracted  even  more  French  private  in- 
vestment and  personnel.  This  concentration  of  economic  and  po- 
litical activity  in  Abidjan  led  to  population  shifts  toward  the  south 
and  the  creation  of  a  modern  capital,  the  life  of  which  contrasted 
sharply  with  Cote  d T voire 's  up-country  village  life. 

The  country's  increasing  economic  wealth,  however,  did  not 
benefit  all  segments  of  the  population.  Rapid  urbanization  brought 
massive  urban  unemployment  and  rising  conflict.  Labeled  by  the 
government  as  the  sans-travail,  unemployed  Ivoirians  in  Abidjan 
began  to  organize  protest  demonstrations  in  1969  to  pressure  the 
government  to  achieve  greater  Ivoirianization  of  low-level  jobs.  On 
September  30,  1969,  about  1,600  demonstrators  were  arrested  in 
the  capital,  leading  to  resentment  of  both  government  and  foreign 
workers  among  the  sans-travail. 

Another  problem  area  existed  between  Ivoirian  intellectuals  and 
some  elites  on  the  one  hand  and  white  Europeans,  mainly  the 
French,  who  held  numerous  skilled  jobs  in  the  economy  and  civil 
service,  on  the  other  hand.  The  Ivoirian  government  was  reluc- 
tant to  undertake  a  large-scale  Ivoirianization  of  the  economy.  It 
wanted  to  preserve  Cote  d T voire 's  economic  ties  to  France  and 
to  avoid  staffing  the  administration  with  untrained  bureaucrats. 
Consequently,  many  Ivoirians  perceived  Houphouet-Boigny  as 
favoring  Europeans  over  Ivoirians  in  employment. 

Another  rift  resulted  from  the  influx  from  other  African  coun- 
tries of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  unskilled  workers,  most  of  whom 
were  Mossi  from  Upper  Volta.  The  Ivoirian  government  en- 
couraged the  import  of  cheap  foreign  African  laborers,  who  worked 
on  the  large  coffee  and  cocoa  plantations  and  in  industry.  Compe- 
tition between  Ivoirian  and  foreign  workers  exploded  into  violence 


26 


Historical  Setting 


in  September  and  October  1969,  when  widespread  attacks  on  Mossi 
workers  occurred  in  Abidjan. 

A  fourth  area  of  conflict  resulted  from  the  antagonism  between 
students  and  the  PDCI  government.  This  antagonism  manifested 
itself  in  recurrent  protests  by  university  students.  Large  numbers 
of  Ivoirian  students  who  had  studied  in  France  or  were  influenced 
by  students  from  many  other  sub-Saharan  African  countries  re- 
jected the  PDCI's  ideological  movement  away  from  socialism  that 
had  begun  in  1950.  They  rejected  what  they  perceived  as  the  re- 
gime's neocolonial  policies  vis-a-vis  France.  Many  students  also 
objected  to  the  government's  placement  of  the  major  student 
organization  under  the  control  of  the  PDCI. 

A  confrontation  between  the  students  and  the  government 
occurred  in  May  1969,  when  the  student  organization,  the  Move- 
ment of  Ivoirian  Primary  and  Secondary  School  Students  (Mouve- 
ment  des  Etudiants  et  Eleves  de  Cote  d'lvoire — MEECI),  presented 
a  list  of  demands  to  the  government  for  specific  reforms  at  Abi- 
djan University  (present-day  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire) 
and  held  a  strike  in  which  150  students  participated.  The  govern- 
ment arrested  all  Ivoirian  student  protesters  in  Abidjan,  expelled 
all  foreign  students,  and  closed  the  university  for  two  weeks,  lead- 
ing to  further  expressions  of  student  discontent  at  the  university. 
The  government's  crackdown  aroused  the  sympathy  of  other  dis- 
contented groups,  including  the  sans-travail  and  secondary  students 
in  other  towns.  For  its  part,  the  government  considered  student 
activity  as  a  threat  to  its  authority  and  political  stability,  and  it 
blamed  the  strike  on  outside  communist  influences. 

Consolidation  of  Power  in  the  1960s  and  1970s 

After  the  1963  alleged  coup  plot,  Houphouet-Boigny  took  steps 
to  ensure  party  and  military  loyalty.  His  success  over  the  ensuing 
years  lay  in  his  carefully  crafted  system  of  checks  and  balances, 
using  ethnic  differences,  political  animosities,  and  co-optation  to 
guarantee  his  own  supremacy.  To  satisfy  the  political  elite,  he  resort- 
ed to  state  and  party  patronage,  mostly  in  the  form  of  high-paying 
jobs.  To  diffuse  the  potential  for  ethnic  conflict  resulting  from  per- 
ceived inequalities  in  the  development  process,  he  divided  cabinet 
appointments  among  representatives  of  Cote  d' I  voire 's  major  ethnic 
groups. 

To  fortify  his  hold  over  the  armed  forces,  Houphouet-Boigny 
assumed  direct  control  of  the  police  and  military,  the  size  of  which 
he  reduced  from  5,300  to  3,500  members.  He  divided  responsibil- 
ity for  internal  security  among  seven  groups — a  3,000-man  militia 
linked  to  the  party  and  composed  almost  exclusively  of  Baoule 


27 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


(Houphouet-Boigny's  ethnic  group);  a  3,000-man  gendarmerie; 
the  police;  a  special  presidential  guard;  a  small  navy;  a  small  air 
force;  and  the  army.  He  also  broadened  his  executive  powers  so 
that  he  alone  could  appoint  and  promote  senior  military  officers. 
With  the  removal  of  political  rivals  following  the  1962  and  1963 
conspiracy  trials,  Houphouet-Boigny's  position  was  unchallengeable. 

In  the  1970s,  as  the  Ivoirian  polity  became  somewhat  more 
sophisticated,  Houphouet-Boigny  of  necessity  refined  his  style.  He 
began  replacing  aging  and  loyal  party  militants  with  younger  in- 
tellectuals and  highly  trained  technocrats  for  whom  he  often  created 
positions  in  his  government — and  who  therefore  owed  him  fealty. 
After  the  1970  party  congress,  Houphouet-Boigny  also  began  nam- 
ing younger  members  to  the  political  bureau  and  as  candidates  to 
the  National  Assembly.  He  ingratiated  himself  with  the  middle  and 
lower  classes  by  speaking  out  frequendy  about  the  failures  of  govern- 
ment officials.  His  preferred  method  of  addressing  popular  issues 
was  through  dialogues  in  which  the  public  could  air  their  grievances 
to  their  seemingly  attentive  leader.  During  the  first  dialogue  in  Janu- 
ary 1974  with  2,000  party  workers,  Houphouet-Boigny  invited  criti- 
cisms and  appointed  various  committees  to  study  and  recommend 
reforms.  In  March  a  second  dialogue  with  foreign  and  local  busi- 
ness leaders  elicited  resolutions  and  warnings  to  inefficient  and  cor- 
rupt cadres  and  to  the  Lebanese  and  French  business  communities. 
No  reforms  of  substance  occurred  following  either  of  these  sessions, 
but  by  allowing  public  criticism,  albeit  in  a  tightly  controlled  en- 
vironment, the  president  remained  informed  about  popular  dis- 
satisfaction. Subsequently  he  could  take  steps  either  to  remedy  or 
to  suppress  problems  while  maintaining  his  firm  grip  over  Ivoirian 
politics. 

Houphouet-Boigny  also  continued  to  invite  traditional,  or  eth- 
nic, leaders  to  participate  in  both  party  and  government  at  the  local 
level  so  that  he  could  maintain  constructive  ties  with  the  traditional 
elite.  Nevertheless,  he  was  not  always  able  to  extinguish  all  micro- 
nationalist  sentiments.  For  example,  the  Agni  of  Sanwi  claimed 
that  their  kingdom  had  become  part  of  Cote  d'lvoire  without  their 
consent  (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages,  ch.  2).  In  December 
1969,  the  Sanwi  king  called  for  the  kingdom  to  secede  and  led  a 
separatist  revolt.  Government  troops  swiftly  suppressed  the  rebel- 
lion. In  November  1970,  a  Bete  leader,  Gnagbe  Niabe  (also  known 
as  Gnabe  Opadjele)  proclaimed  himself  grand  chancellor  of  Cote 
d'lvoire.  When  Houphouet-Boigny  refused  to  accept  Gnabe 's  can- 
didacy for  president  or  grant  his  request  for  a  cabinet  post,  Gnabe 
gathered  a  large  group  of  supporters  and  marched  on  Gagnoa. 


28 


Historical  Setting 


Again,  government  troops  captured  the  rebel  leader,  ending  the 
small  rebellion. 

Houphouet-Boigny's  ability  to  maintain  stability  lay  in  his  be- 
lief in  strong  management  and  organization,  which  led  him  from 
independence  to  building  an  administration  based  on  the  solid, 
bureaucratic  institutions  left  by  the  French.  In  fact,  the  large  num- 
ber of  French  bureaucrats  and  entrepreneurs  remaining  in  Cote 
d'lvoire  supported  Houphouet-Boigny's  monopoly  on  political 
power  and  thereby  contributed  to  the  perceived  effectiveness  of  the 
public  and  private  sectors  of  the  Ivoirian  economy.  In  November 
1975,  he  was  reelected  president,  claiming  nearly  100  percent  of 
the  vote. 

In  the  early  1970s,  notwithstanding  political  calm  and  rapid  eco- 
nomic growth,  underemployment  and  unemployment  continued 
to  pose  problems  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Immigrants  continued  to  flood 
the  lowest  end  of  the  job  market,  while  whites  continued  to  dominate 
the  top  executive  jobs.  In  addition,  the  uneven  distribution  of  so- 
cial services  and  jobs  throughout  the  country  exacerbated  the  re- 
gional economic  disparities  arising  from  the  growing  concentration 
of  wealth  in  the  south.  And  finally,  the  adverse  effects  of  the  1973 
Sahelian  drought  on  northern  farmers  caused  even  greater  dissatis- 
faction among  the  rural  population. 

Houphouet-Boigny  relied  on  his  charisma  and  the  government's 
coffers  to  dispel  discontent.  In  the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s,  he 
gained  popular  favor  by  alternating  Ivoirian  independence  festivities 
between  Abidjan  and  the  different  prefecture  capitals.  Prefecture 
capitals  hosting  the  festivities  underwent  massive  rehabilitation, 
which  included  jobs  in  construction  for  new  governmental  build- 
ings, streets,  and  housing.  And  when  neither  charisma  nor  largess 
mollified  his  critics,  Houphouet-Boigny  skillfully  blamed  others. 
In  July  1977,  he  reorganized  his  cabinet,  dismissing  four  of  the 
country's  most  influential  political  figures,  who,  although  instru- 
mental in  the  growth  of  the  Ivoirian  economy,  were  also  accused 
of  involvement  in  fraudulent  schemes  to  enrich  themselves.  These 
figures  became  useful  scapegoats  for  continuing  fraud  and  mal- 
distribution of  the  nation's  wealth. 

On  two  occasions  in  the  early  1970s,  Houphouet-Boigny  traveled 
to  the  north  to  convince  local  populations  that  he  was  not  to  blame 
for  the  state  of  affairs  and  to  dispense  politically  timely  aid  in  the 
form  of  development  programs.  The  enthusiasm  generated  by  the 
president's  northern  visits  spread  to  other  regions  seeking  largess 
from  a  presidential  visit.  Eager  to  exploit  this  nationwide  burst  of 
personal  support,  the  government  scheduled  presidential  trips 
throughout  the  country  over  the  next  several  years. 


29 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

The  military  also  showed  signs  of  restlessness.  An  alleged  coup 
conspiracy  by  a  group  of  discontented  young  officers,  in  June  1973 
followed  by  the  1974  military  overthrow  of  Niger's  Hamani  Diori, 
Houphouet-Boigny' s  lifelong  friend,  undermined  Houphouet- 
Boigny's  confidence  in  the  government's  security  and  precipitated 
changes  in  the  military.  Although  many  Ivoirian  political  observ- 
ers thought  that  the  conspirators  of  the  alleged  coup  had  done  noth- 
ing more  than  discuss  among  themselves  the  need  for  greater 
economic  equality  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  the  government  dealt  with  them 
harshly.  Shortly  thereafter,  Houphouet-Boigny  replaced  two  senior 
French  military  officers,  who  had  allegedly  fomented  discontent 
among  Ivoirian  officers,  with  Ivoirians.  Further  changes,  designed 
to  instill  military  loyalty  by  giving  the  armed  forces  more  scope 
in  national  affairs,  took  place  in  July  1974,  when  Houphouet-Boigny 
appointed  military  officers  to  both  high-  and  low-level  positions  in 
the  civil  administration.  And  finally,  in  February  1979,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  appointed  eight  army  officers  as  prefects  and  subprefects 
to  give  the  military  a  greater  stake  in  maintaining  the  status  quo. 

Economic  and  Political  Issues  of  the  Late  1970s 
and  1980s 

Growing  Economic  Problems 

The  worldwide  economic  recession  at  the  beginning  of  the  1980s 
caused  the  prices  of  cocoa  and  coffee,  Cote  d'lvoire's  principal  ex- 
ports, to  drop  sharply,  resulting  in  a  significant  economic  slow- 
down. Combined  with  soaring  commercial  interest  rates,  the 
recession  abruptly  truncated  the  growth  of  the  Ivoirian  economy 
and  exacerbated  tensions  in  the  labor  force,  where  underemploy- 
ment and  unemployment  had  become  acute.  In  mid- 1978  com- 
plaints about  inflation,  the  public  debt,  decreasing  exports,  the  role 
of  foreigners  in  the  economy,  and  the  succession  question  appeared 
in  antigovernment  tracts  distributed  in  Abidjan.  Popular  manifesta- 
tions of  discontent  with  the  regime's  rigid  policies,  as  well  as  with 
declining  revenue,  high  urban  unemployment,  and  the  atrophied 
one-party  political  system,  continued  into  the  early  1980s.  As  was 
by  now  typical,  Houphouet-Boigny  dealt  quickly  with  the  com- 
plaints by  proposing  more  rapid  Ivoirianization  and  steps  to  de- 
centralize and  democratize  local  administrations.  The  government 
also  trimmed  the  budget  of  several  development  programs. 

Perhaps  foreseeing  political  problems,  Houphouet-Boigny  took 
steps  to  consolidate  further  his  own  control.  In  1980,  again  run- 
ning unopposed,  he  was  elected  to  a  fifth  term  in  office.  In  the 
same  year,  the  Seventh  Party  Congress  of  the  PDCI,  following 


30 


Historical  Setting 


instructions  from  the  president,  abolished  the  post  of  PDCI  secre- 
tary general  and  established  Houphouet-Boigny  as  the  party's 
executive  chairman,  assisted  by  the  new  nine-member  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Political  Bureau. 

Succession  Question 

The  question  of  who  would  succeed  Houphouet-Boigny  became 
the  significant  political  issue  by  the  beginning  of  the  1980s.  Many 
political  observers  believed  that  if  Houphouet-Boigny  did  choose 
a  successor,  internecine  feuds  would  erupt  within  the  PDCI. 
They  also  believed  that,  at  least  initially,  no  one  could  combine 
Houphouet-Boigny's  prestige,  charisma,  and  experience  with  the 
political  acumen  that  he  had  exercised  over  Ivoirian  politics  for 
almost  thirty  years. 

In  1980  a  constitutional  amendment  created  the  office  of  vice- 
president,  who  was  to  succeed  to  the  presidency  in  the  event  of 
a  midterm  vacancy  and  who  would  be  chosen  by  and  elected  at 
the  same  time  as  the  president.  The  next  elections,  however,  were 
not  scheduled  until  1985,  and  Houphouet-Boigny  had  given  no 
indication  of  his  plans  for  a  vice-presidential  running  mate.  (In 
1985  Houphouet-Boigny  resolved  the  problem  by  amending  the 
constitution,  eliminating  the  position  of  vice-president.) 

In  the  1970s,  Philippe  Yace,  the  president  of  the  National  As- 
sembly and  PDCI  secretary  general,  seemed  to  be  the  most  likely 
successor.  In  1975  the  National  Assembly  adopted  a  law  stipulat- 
ing that  power  would  pass  to  the  president  of  the  assembly,  con- 
firming Yace  as  the  second  most  powerful  man  in  the  country. 
Nevertheless,  Yace,  who  was  popular  with  party  officials,  had  many 
enemies,  mostly  because  of  his  role  as  chief  accuser  in  the  fabri- 
cated 1963  plot. 

In  1980  the  prospects  for  designating  a  presidential  successor  were 
even  more  obscured  when  Houphouet-Boigny  abolished  the  post 
of  PDCI  secretary  general  held  by  Yace,  who  had  fallen  into  dis- 
favor with  the  president  because  he  was  thought  guilty  of  pride. 
Shortly  thereafter,  Yace  was  also  stripped  of  his  position  as  presi- 
dent of  the  National  Assembly. 

By  the  early  1980s,  the  list  of  possible  successors  included  mem- 
bers of  the  old  guard  in  the  top  echelons  of  the  party  as  well  as 
technocrats — middle-aged,  university-educated  Ivoirians — who 
filled  executive  positions  in  the  administrative  bureaucracy  and  the 
economy.  Among  the  old  guard  who  enjoyed  great  support  inside 
the  PDCI  were  Minister  of  State  Mathieu  Ekra;  Senior  Minister 
of  State  Auguste  Denise;  and  president  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  Mamadou  Coulibaly.  The  most  likely  candidate, 


31 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


however,  was  Henri  Konan  Bedie,  a  Baoule,  a  technocrat,  and 
the  new  National  Assembly  president.  According  to  Article  11, 
amended,  of  the  Constitution,  the  president  of  the  National  As- 
sembly takes  over  the  office  of  the  president  of  the  republic  should 
the  latter  die  or  become  incapacitated.  The  provisional  president 
can  then  run  for  a  full  term  in  elections,  which  are  to  take  place 
within  sixty  days.  As  provisional  president,  Bedie  would  have  an 
edge  over  possible  rivals.  Moreover,  demographic  trends  favored 
Bedie,  who  as  a  second- generation  politician  enjoyed  growing  sup- 
port from  younger  and  middle-aged  Iviorians  who  believed  perhaps 
that  Yace,  a  first- generation  figure,  was  now  too  old.  A  third  group 
of  political  rivals  was  a  younger  generation  of  politicians,  most  in 
their  thirties,  who  were  known  for  their  effectiveness  in  the  eco- 
nomic sphere  and  favored  closer  ties  with  the  United  States  and 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany). 

In  the  mid-1980s,  political  infighting  threatened  to  spill  over 
boundaries  of  the  narrow  circle  of  the  party  leadership,  however. 
That  Houphouet-Boigny  continued  to  resist  naming  a  successor 
proved  disconcerting  to  all  those  in  positions  of  power,  as  well  as 
to  the  West  and  especially  to  France,  which  had  extensive  invest- 
ments in  Cote  d'lvoire. 

Party  Decentralization 

As  the  Ivoirian  bureaucracy  assumed  a  more  prominent  posi- 
tion in  the  postindependence  years,  the  PDCI  withered  steadily. 
Increasingly  it  became  a  sinecure  for  the  old  guard,  who  lacked 
the  ability  to  hold  government  office  but  remained  personally  loyal 
to  the  president.  Also,  by  the  early  1970s  the  one-party  political 
structure  was  based  on  a  purely  ethnic  system  of  representation 
at  the  local  level  that  lacked  any  democratic  procedures  and  that 
had  produced  an  economically  privileged  political  class.  Moreover, 
the  party  and  government  hierarchies  were  characterized  by 
nepotism  and  corruption.  And  finally,  the  poorly  defined  and  over- 
lapping responsibilities  of  party  officials  caused  infighting  and  po- 
litical rivalry. 

In  the  late  1970s,  Houphouet-Boigny,  faced  with  growing  party 
disarray,  began  to  decentralize  the  PDCI  at  the  local  level,  where 
a  substantial  change  in  party  leadership  took  place.  For  the  first 
time,  the  local  party  secretary  generals,  previously  elected  as  part 
of  a  slate,  were  now  to  be  chosen  in  open  elections. 

Discontent  on  Campus 

The  academic  community  was  the  most  vocal  protest  group.  The 
first  sign  of  difficulty  occurred  in  1982,  when  the  union  of  students 


32 


Historical  Setting 


went  on  strike  to  protest  government  efforts  to  halt  political  speeches 
on  the  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire  campus.  Houphouet- 
Boigny  responded  in  his  typical  paternalistic  fashion:  he  chastised 
the  students,  dissolved  their  movement,  and  forced  them  to  return 
to  their  villages  until  they  all  had  apologized  in  writing  to  the  govern- 
ment. Laurent  Gbagbo,  a  young  professor  who  during  the  strike 
spoke  out  on  the  need  for  a  multiparty  system,  went  into  volun- 
tary exile  in  France  and  became  a  symbol  for  young  Ivoirians  who 
wanted  to  liberalize  the  ruling  party. 

Further  disturbances  occurred  in  1983,  when  approximately 
4,000  secondary-school  teachers,  members  of  the  National  Union 
of  Secondary  School  Teachers  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Syndicat  National 
des  Enseignants  du  Secondaire  de  Cote  d'lvoire — SYNESCI),  went 
on  strike  to  protest  the  elimination  of  their  housing  allowances. 
Their  strike  was  also  an  expression  of  solidarity  with  those  students 
and  professors  who  had  protested  over  issues  of  free  speech  the  year 
before  and,  more  significant,  had  voiced  their  basic  opposition  to 
Houphouet-Boigny.  Because  the  teachers'  union  was  the  only  union 
independent  of  the  PDCI  (SYNESCI  refused  to  affiliate  with  the 
official  government  union),  the  government  dissolved  the  union 
during  the  strike.  In  addition,  the  teachers  complained  that 
Houphouet-Boigny  had  unfairly  penalized  them  and  ignored  cabi- 
net members  who,  they  alleged,  had  mismanaged  the  economy. 
Reacting  once  again  in  an  arbitrary  manner  that  further  alienated 
teachers  and  students  alike,  Houphouet-Boigny  closed  all  the  secon- 
dary schools  and  sent  the  200,000  students  home. 

Other  Sources  of  Discontent 

The  teachers'  strike  quickly  expanded  into  a  major  political  issue 
at  a  time  when  underlying  popular  discontent  had  already  come 
close  to  the  surface.  Shortly  before  the  strike,  the  president  had 
announced  an  expensive  move  of  the  capital  from  Abidjan  to 
his  village  birthplace,  Yamoussoukro.  The  move  promised  to  in- 
crease vastiy  the  value  of  land  in  the  region,  much  of  which  was 
owned  by  the  president  and  his  family.  And  then,  after  the  strike, 
Houphouet-Boigny  delivered  an  extraordinary  speech  to  the  PDCI's 
Political  Bureau  in  which  he  divulged  the  sources  and  use  of  his 
own  extensive  wealth.  The  consequent  publication  of  the  speech 
surprised  much  of  the  population,  many  of  whom  had  been  ad- 
versely affected  by  the  country's  increasing  economic  difficulties, 
and  aroused  tremendous  popular  disapproval. 

In  1984,  despite  record  harvests  and  prices  for  cash  crops  and 
a  rescheduling  of  the  external  debt,  the  political  atmosphere 
remained  glum.  Public  investigations  revealed  high  levels  of 


33 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

corruption  in  the  public  housing  sector  and  led  to  a  protracted  tri- 
al and  the  subsequent  imprisonment  of  a  number  of  high-ranking 
officials.  More  important,  the  trial  implicated  higher  authorities, 
including  past  and  present  ministers  and  members  of  the  president's 
family,  none  of  whom  was  brought  to  justice. 

Popular  discontent  also  increased  in  response  to  the  president's 
implementation  of  austerity  measures.  In  the  public  sector,  the 
government  froze  salaries.  Throughout  1984  the  employees  retali- 
ated by  threatening  strikes,  work  stoppages,  and  absenteeism.  In 
the  private  sector,  where  politicians  who  were  also  business  peo- 
ple had  always  enjoyed  privileged  treatment,  financial  irregulari- 
ties were  usually  ignored.  But  the  austerity  measures  took  aim  at 
the  business  people,  eliminating  their  privileges  and  exposing  finan- 
cial scandals.  For  example,  Emmanuel  Dioulo,  Abidjan's  mayor, 
reportedly  defrauded  the  National  Agricultural  Development  Bank 
of  US$32  million.  At  the  end  of  March  1985,  when  the  PDCI's 
Executive  Committee  lifted  Dioulo 's  parliamentary  immunity  so 
that  he  could  be  tried  on  criminal  charges,  Dioulo  fled  the  coun- 
try. Following  the  Dioulo  affair,  Houphouet-Boigny  launched  a 
series  of  tax  investigations  of  Yace  and  other  prominent  political 
figures  who  had  acquired  personal  fortunes. 

During  Houphouet-Boigny 's  1984  annual  summer  vacation  in 
Europe,  a  number  of  political  tracts,  published  by  unidentified  op- 
position groups,  appeared  in  the  capital.  The  tracts  questioned  the 
president's  political  views  and  denounced  the  failure  of  the  PDCI 
to  manage  the  economy.  The  PDCI  leadership  responded  to  the 
attacks  by  organizing  a  series  of  trips  to  the  interior  to  speak  per- 
sonally to  the  population.  This  measure,  however,  only  created 
more  tension  because  the  leaders  competed  among  themselves  for 
coverage  in  the  national  media  and  exposed  their  sometimes  bit- 
ter rivalry.  One  reason  for  the  increasing  intensity  of  the  rivalry 
was  the  scheduled  September  1985  Eighth  Party  Congress  of  the 
PDCI,  to  be  followed  by  legislative  and  presidential  elections. 

In  addition  to  the  succession  issue  and  the  economic  crisis,  urban 
populations  were  faced  with  a  worsening  crime  wave  for  which 
Ivoirians  blamed  foreigners  primarily  from  Ghana  and  Burkina 
Faso  (see  Crime  and  Punishment,  ch.  5).  Some  gangs,  however, 
were  directed  by  the  Ivoirian  underworld,  an  organized  crime  group 
that  sometimes  recruited  unemployed  youths  from  Burkina  Faso. 
Many  of  the  attacks  were  aimed  at  affluent  French  and  Lebanese 
business  people. 

Thus,  by  the  end  of  1984,  uncertainty  and  instability  permeated 
the  Ivoirian  political  and  economic  sectors,  replacing  the  growth 
and  optimism  of  a  decade  earlier.  The  most  pressing  issue,  however, 


34 


Historical  Setting 


as  viewed  by  the  Ivoirian  political  elite  and  Western  governments 
(France  in  particular),  was  whether  Houphouet-Boigny  would  desig- 
nate an  official  successor  for  the  1985  elections.  The  Ivoirian  elite 
seemed  committed  to  a  stable  transition  of  power,  mostly  to  pro- 
tect their  economic  interests.  Clearly,  many  Ivoirian  politicians  be- 
lieved that  this  designation  would  eliminate  much  of  the  then- 
pervasive  popular  discontent. 

*    *  * 

Detailed  written  accounts  of  Cote  d T voire 's  early  history  sim- 
ply are  not  available  because  the  archaeological  record  has  yet  to 
be  fully  explored.  There  do  exist  numerous  transcriptions  of  oral 
accounts,  with  their  limitations  in  reassembling  the  historical  record, 
by  ancestors  of  the  indigenous  population.  Two  secondary  sources 
that  include  sections  on  the  early  history  of  the  region  are  Virginia 
Thompson  and  Richard  AdlofP  s  French  West  Africa  and  Robert  W. 
July's  A  History  of  the  African  People. 

More  recent  literature  on  Cote  dT voire  is  copious  and  varied. 
Aristide  R.  Zolberg's  One-Party  Government  in  the  Ivory  Coast  is  the 
best  known  and  most  detailed  source  for  an  analysis  of  recent 
Ivoirian  politics,  and  Michael  A.  Cohen's  Urban  Policy  and  Political 
Conflict  in  Africa  is  an  excellent  source  for  a  discussion  of  the  coun- 
try's contrasting  urban  and  rural  life.  Other  analytical  studies  of 
Ivoirian  politics,  both  precolonial  and  postcolonial,  include  Chris- 
tian Potholm's  chapter  in  Four  African  Political  Systems  titled  "The 
Ivoirian  Political  System";  two  articles  by  Bonnie  Campbell,  one 
in  John  Dunn's  West  African  States  titled  "The  Ivory  Coast";  and 
the  other  in  Paul  M.  Lubeck's  The  African  Bourgeoisie  titled  "The 
State  and  Capitalist  Development  in  the  Ivory  Coast;"  and  an  ar- 
ticle by  Martin  Staniland  titled  "Single-Party  Regimes  and  Po- 
litical Change:  The  P. D.C.I,  and  Ivory  Coast  Politics." 

Literature  that  deals  extensively  with  the  nature  and  extent  of 
Houphouet-Boigny' s  personal  power  is  found  in  Claude  Welch's 
No  Farewell  to  Arms?  and  Robert  H.  Jackson  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg's 
Personal  Rule  in  Black  Africa.  One  other  article  of  note,  which  deals 
in  great  depth  with  the  Ivoirian  succession  issue,  is  Tessilimi 
Bakary's  "Elite  Transformation  and  Political  Succession"  in 
I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher  Delgado's  The  Political  Econ- 
omy of  Ivory  Coast. 

One  of  the  best  sources  for  a  critical  assessment  of  Houphouet- 
Boigny  is  Laurent  Gbagbo,  a  government  opponent,  whose  book, 
Cote  dTvoire:  Economie  et  societea  la  veille  de  ITndependance  (1940-1960), 
examines  the  events  and  conditions  that  brought  Houphouet-Boigny 
to  power.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bib- 
liography.) 


35 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Sculpted  door  from  northern  Cote  d'lvoire  showing  Senoufo  symbolic  figures 


CULTURAL  DIVERSITY  is  impressive  in  Cote  dTvoire.  Urban 
and  agricultural  workers,  herders,  traders,  and  fishermen;  matri- 
lineal  and  patrilineal  organizations;  villages  and  chiefdoms;  and 
progressive  and  conservative  political  tendencies  contribute  to  this 
national  mosaic.  Added  to  this  indigenous  variety  are  French, 
Lebanese,  and  African  immigrants  and  visitors  who  live  and  work 
throughout  the  country.  This  complex  nation  is  changing,  however, 
and  attitudes  toward  change  vary  among  and  within  these  groups. 
During  the  1980s,  the  pace  of  change  was  affected  by  the  numer- 
ous oppositions  that  characterized  Ivoirian  society — rich-poor, 
urban-rural,  modern- traditional,  and  south-north.  Cote  dTvoire 
was  developing  its  own  balance  of  these  tensions,  with  a  result  far 
more  complex  than  a  simple  combination  of  indigenous  cultures 
and  colonial  legacies. 

Religious  systems  have  changed  in  ways  that  reflect  other  social 
trends.  In  this  nation  of  "miraculous"  economic  development,  as 
it  is  so  often  dubbed,  with  its  clearly  privileged  elite,  people  have 
on  the  whole  retained  traditional  African  religious  beliefs.  Usu- 
ally combined  with  Christian  or  Muslim  precepts,  or  both,  local 
religions  nonetheless  permeate  views  regarding  the  nature  of  cause 
and  effect.  The  syncretisms  emerging  from  these  strains  of  con- 
tinuity and  change  are,  like  the  nation  itself,  unique,  despite  similar- 
ities with  other  African  states. 

Political  systems,  like  religions,  reflect  elements  of  modern  and 
indigenous  values  in  their  development,  and  in  Cote  dTvoire  these 
influences  were  especially  evident  in  the  practice  of  justifying 
authority  in  personal  terms.  The  patrimonial  style  of  President  Felix 
Houphouet-Boigny  indelibly  marked  political  development  through 
the  early  decades  of  independence.  He  crafted,  although  not  single- 
handedly,  a  nation  that  exemplified  moderation  in  some  respects, 
resisting  political  trends  and  social  extremes.  Social  development 
was  generally  steady  and  gradual  rather  than  abrupt  or  catastrophic. 
The  resulting  society  was  marked  by  a  general  optimism  regard- 
ing the  possibility  of  benefiting  from  the  system.  The  lure  of  af- 
fluence fostered  an  individualism  that  was  absent  in  traditional 
cultures,  as  materialism  "caught  on"  but  did  not  obliterate  tradi- 
tional beliefs  about  the  nature  of  the  universe.  Alienation  was 
moderated  by  the  hope  of  participation  in  the  nation's  material 
growth. 


39 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Efforts  to  improve  educational  opportunities  were  important  in 
this  changing  social  environment,  both  for  individual  advancement 
and  for  social  control.  The  government  placed  a  high  priority  on 
schools,  adapting  the  system  inherited  from  France  to  advance  local 
interests — but  still  relying  heavily  on  French  assistance.  In  health 
care  service  delivery  as  well,  Cote  dT voire  made  substantial  im- 
provements in  the  system  it  inherited  from  colonial  times,  raising 
material  standards  of  living,  at  least  for  some.  Like  many  benefits 
of  development  both  before  and  after  independence,  however,  these 
advantages  were  most  readily  available  to  those  who  were  already 
able  to  exploit  the  changing  social  system  to  their  own  advantage. 

Physical  Setting 

Location  and  Size 

Cote  d'lvoire  lies  on  the  West  African  coast  on  the  Gulf  of  Guinea 
(see  fig.  3).  Its  outline  is  roughly  that  of  a  square,  560  kilometers 
on  a  side,  with  an  area  of  322,460  square  kilometers — nearly  the 
same  as  New  Mexico.  It  is  bounded  on  the  east  by  Ghana,  on  the 
north  by  Burkina  Faso  and  Mali,  and  on  the  west  by  Guinea  and 
Liberia.  The  entire  southern  border  is  Gulf  of  Guinea  coastline. 

Physical  Features 

The  nation  consists  of  a  large  plateau  rising  gradually  from  sea 
level  to  almost  500  meters  altitude  in  the  north.  Vegetation  changes 
from  lagoon  and  semitropical  growth  in  the  south  to  savanna  grass- 
land and  scrub  in  the  north  (see  fig.  4).  Mountain  ranges  extend 
along  the  western  border,  and  a  few  peaks  dot  the  northeast  corner. 
Four  major  river  systems  flow  southward  forming  parallel  drainage 
basins.  Cutting  across  these  basins  are  three  geographic  regions 
roughly  parallel  to  the  coast — the  lagoon  region,  the  forest  region, 
and  the  savanna  region. 

The  Lagoon  Region 

The  lagoon  region  (zone  lagunaire)  is  a  narrow  coastal  belt  extend- 
ing along  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  from  the  Ghana  border  to  the  mouth 
of  the  Sassandra  River.  It  consists  of  a  strip  of  low,  sandy  islands 
and  sandbars  built  by  the  combined  action  of  heavy  surf  and  ocean 
currents.  These  barrier  islands,  known  as  the  cordon  littoral,  have 
almost  closed  the  rivers  flowing  into  the  gulf.  The  resulting  series 
of  lagoons  range  in  width  from  about  a  hundred  meters  to  seven 
or  eight  kilometers,  and  adjacent  lands  seldom  rise  more  than  thirty 
meters  above  sea  level,  leaving  the  area  subject  to  frequent  flood- 
ing during  rainy  seasons. 


40 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Most  of  the  lagoons  are  narrow,  salty,  and  shallow  and  run 
parallel  to  the  coastline,  linked  to  one  another  and  the  gulf  by  small 
watercourses  or  canals.  Where  large  rivers  empty  into  the  gulf, 
broad  estuaries  extend  as  much  as  ten  to  twenty  kilometers  inland. 
The  sandy  soil  supports  the  growth  of  coconut  palms  and  salt- 
resistant  coastal  shrubs.  The  dense  rain  forest  that  once  came  down 
to  the  water's  edge  along  the  continental  side  of  the  lagoons  has 
been  largely  supplanted  by  clearings  for  farms  and  towns  and  by 
second-growth  woodlands.  In  the  few  remaining  undisturbed  areas, 
dense  mangrove  thickets  appear  along  the  edges  of  marshy  inlets. 

The  Forest  Region 

A  broad  belt  of  dense  forest  covers  nearly  one-third  of  the  coun- 
try, extending  north  of  the  lagoon  region  in  the  east  and  reaching 
down  to  the  coastline  in  the  west  between  the  Sassandra  River  and 
the  mouth  of  the  Cavally  River.  Its  northern  boundary  stretches 
from  the  city  of  Man  in  the  west  to  Bondoukou  in  the  east,  dip- 
ping down  in  the  center  of  the  country  to  the  confluence  of  the 
Bandama  Blanc  and  Bandama  Rouge  rivers.  This  boundary  marks 
the  transition  from  forest  to  grassy  woodlands  where  plantation 
agriculture  and  burning  have  encroached  on  the  forest.  From  the 
border  with  Ghana  west  to  the  Sassandra  River,  the  gently  rolling 
relief  of  the  forest  region  is  broken  by  small  hills.  West  of  the 
Sassandra,  the  Dan  Mountains  and  the  Toura  Mountains  reach 
1,300  meters  elevation.  Mt.  Nimba,  near  the  border  with  Liberia 
and  Guinea,  reaches  1,752  meters. 

The  Savanna 

The  northern  half  of  the  nation  is  generally  characterized  as 
savanna — a  large  plateau  consisting  primarily  of  rolling  hills,  low- 
lying  vegetation,  and  scattered  trees.  Vegetation  varies  from  wood- 
lands to  grasslands  and  occasional  patches  of  dry  scrub  in  the  far 
north.  Some  narrow  strips  of  forest  extend  toward  the  north  along 
watercourses  and  drainage  lines.  The  southern  portion  of  the 
savanna  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  transition  zone  (zone  de  tran- 
sition) and  the  northern  portion  as  the  sudanic  zone  (zone  soudanienne), 
although  the  entire  region  is  transitional  between  the  narrow  belt 
of  forest  paralleling  the  coastline  and  the  Sahara  Desert.  The  gently 
rolling  plains  are  broken  occasionally  by  granite  domes  or  small 
hill  masses,  the  most  extensive  being  the  Komonos  Hills.  In  the 
northwest,  a  number  of  peaks  exceed  800  meters  elevation. 

A  major  divide  extends  across  the  northeastern  corner  of  Cote 
dT voire  near  Burkina  Faso,  separating  the  main  southward 
drainage  system  from  the  Volta  River  Basin,  which  drains  to  the 


43 


42 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


International 
—  •  -  —  boundary 

®         National  capital 

•         Populated  place 

)         50        100  Kilometers 

»  50  1  00  Miles 


Vegetation  zones 


Forest 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Y.  Monnier,  "Vegetation,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  17. 

Figure  4.  Vegetation  Zones,  1983 


north.  Near  Bondoukou,  where  the  divide  crosses  the  Ghana  bor- 
der, Mt.  Bo  we  de  Kiendi  reaches  725  meters  elevation.  In  the  north, 
Mt.  Yeleve  reaches  an  altitude  of  685  meters. 

Rivers 

Four  major  river  systems  follow  meandering  courses  from  north 
to  south,  draining  into  the  Gulf  of  Guinea.  From  west  to  east  these 
are  the  Cavally,  Sassandra,  Bandama,  and  Comoe — all  relatively 


44 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


untamed  rivers  navigable  only  short  distances  inland  from  the  coast. 
In  the  north,  many  smaller  tributaries  change  to  dry  streambeds 
between  rains. 

The  Cavally  River  has  its  headwaters  in  the  Nimba  Mountains 
of  Guinea  and  forms  the  border  between  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Liberia 
for  over  half  its  length.  It  crosses  rolling  land  and  rapids  and  is 
navigable  for  about  fifty  kilometers  inland  from  its  exit  to  the  sea 
near  Cape  Palmas. 

The  Sassandra  River  Basin  has  its  source  in  the  high  ground 
of  the  north,  where  the  Tienba  River  joins  the  Feredougouba  River, 
which  flows  from  the  Guinea  highlands.  It  is  joined  by  the  Bagbe, 
Bafing,  Nzo,  Lobo,  and  Davo  rivers  and  winds  through  shifting 
sandbars  to  form  a  narrow  estuary,  which  is  navigable  for  about 
eighty  kilometers  inland  from  the  port  of  Sassandra. 

The  Bandama  River,  often  referred  to  as  the  Bandama  Blanc, 
is  the  longest  in  the  country,  joining  the  Bandama  Rouge  (also 
known  as  the  Marahoue),  Solomougou,  Kan,  and  Nzi  rivers  over 
its  800-kilometer  course.  This  large  river  system  drains  most  of 
central  Cote  d'lvoire  before  it  flows  into  the  Tagba  Lagoon  oppo- 
site Grand-Lahou.  During  rainy  seasons,  small  craft  navigate  the 
Bandama  for  fifty  or  sixty  kilometers  inland. 

Easternmost  of  the  main  rivers,  the  Comoe,  formed  by  the  Leraba 
and  Gomonaba,  has  its  sources  in  the  Sikasso  Plateau  of  Burkina 
Faso.  It  flows  within  a  narrow  700-kilometer  basin  and  receives 
the  Kongo  and  Iringou  tributaries  before  winding  among  the  coastal 
sandbars  and  emptying  into  the  Ebrie  Lagoon  near  Grand-Bassam. 
The  Comoe  is  navigable  for  vessels  of  light  draft  for  about  fifty 
kilometers  to  Alepe. 

Large  dams  were  built  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  to  control  the  flow 
of  major  rivers  to  the  south.  These  projects  created  reservoirs,  now 
referred  to  as  lakes  bearing  the  names  of  the  dams — Buyo  on  the 
Sassandra,  Kossou  and  Taabo  on  the  Bandama,  and  Ayame  on 
the  small  Bia  River  in  the  southeast  corner  of  the  country.  Lake 
Kossou  is  the  largest  of  these,  occupying  more  than  1,600  square 
kilometers  in  the  center  of  the  country. 

Climate 

The  climate  is  generally  warm  and  humid  and  is,  overall,  tran- 
sitional from  equatorial  to  tropical.  Seasons  are  more  clearly  dis- 
tinguishable by  rainfall  and  wind  direction  than  by  temperature. 
Continental  and  maritime  air  masses,  following  the  apparent  move- 
ment of  the  sun  from  north  to  south,  determine  the  cycle  of  the 
seasons  that  is  associated  with  heat  and  cold  farther  from  the 
equator. 


45 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

During  half  of  the  year,  a  warm  maritime  air  mass  pushes  north- 
ward across  Cote  d' I  voire  in  response  to  the  movement  of  the  sun. 
Ahead  of  it,  a  low  pressure  belt,  or  intertropical  front,  brings  warm 
air,  rain,  and  prevailing  winds  from  the  southwest.  As  the  solar 
cycle  reverses,  a  dry  continental  air  mass  moves  southward  over 
the  nation,  permitting  the  dusty  harmattan  to  dominate.  Surface 
winds  are  gentle,  seldom  exceeding  fifteen  to  twenty  kilometers  per 
hour. 

Two  climatic  zones  are  created  by  the  alternating  wind  patterns. 
In  the  north,  rainfall  amounts  delineate  two  major  seasons.  Heavy 
rains  fall  between  June  and  October,  averaging  110  centimeters 
annually.  Along  the  coast,  four  seasons  prevail.  Some  rain  falls 
in  most  months,  with  an  average  of  200  centimeters  annually,  but 
four  seasons  are  generally  distinguishable.  Heavy  rains  fall  between 
May  and  July  in  most  years,  followed  by  a  short  dry  season  dur- 
ing August  and  September.  A  second  rainy  season  comes  during 
October  and  November,  followed  by  the  major  dry  season  from 
December  to  April. 

Temperatures  and  humidity  generally  follow  the  same  pattern, 
with  average  temperatures  between  25 °C  and  30°C  and  ranges 
from  10°C  to  40°C.  Temperatures  are  higher  in  the  north  but  may 
exceed  30°C  even  in  the  south.  Annual  and  daily  ranges  of  both 
temperature  and  humidity  are  small  along  the  coast  but  increase 
progressively  toward  the  north.  The  average  relative  humidity  is 
85  percent  in  the  south  and  71  percent  in  the  north. 

Population 

Cote  d'lvoire's  first  national  census  in  1975  counted  6.7  mil- 
lion inhabitants,  allowing  1987  estimates  of  10.6  million.  The  1987 
annual  growth  rate  was  4.1  percent.  Regional  variations  were 
marked,  with  annual  growth  of  only  1  percent  in  the  far  north, 
but  throughout  the  country,  population  growth  rates,  which  in- 
cluded high  net  immigration  rates,  were  increasing.  In  the  late 
1980s,  population  projections  for  the  year  2000  exceeded  20  mil- 
lion people. 

Country- wide,  life  expectancy  rose  from  thirty-nine  to  fifty-one 
years  between  1960  and  1988,  and  during  the  same  period,  the 
average  annual  birth  rate  also  increased  steadily  to  45.9  per  1,000 
population.  Fertility  rates  were  about  average  for  West  Africa  at 
6.6  births  per  adult  female.  Fertility  rates  were  lowest  in  Abidjan 
and  highest  in  rural  areas,  where  infant  mortality  also  remained 
relatively  high. 

Mortality  rates  overall  declined  sharply  after  1960,  when  one- 
third  of  all  infants  died  before  the  age  of  five.  Infant  mortality  in 


46 


Granite  outcropping  near  Mankono 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 

the  first  year  of  life  declined  to  110  deaths  per  1,000  births  in  the 
late  1980s.  The  crude  death  rate  was  just  over  14  per  1,000  popu- 
lation. 

Distribution 

Population  density  increased  steadily  from  twenty-one  inhabi- 
tants per  square  kilometer  in  1975  to  thirty-two  in  1987.  This  na- 
tional average  masked  uneven  distribution,  however,  with  much 
of  the  population  concentrated  in  the  south  and  fewer  than  ten  in- 
habitants per  square  kilometer  in  parts  of  the  north.  The  south- 
western corner  of  the  country  presented  a  low-density  exception 
to  this  pattern.  Population  distribution  reflected  Ivoirian  history 
more  than  physical  environment.  Most  areas  of  high  density  cor- 
responded to  the  first  centers  of  settlement  by  major  ethnic  groups, 
especially  the  Akan  and  Mande,  altered  in  the  north  by  nineteenth- 
century  conquests  by  Samori  Toure  (see  Pre-European  Period, 
ch.  1).  Colonial  policy  moved  villages  nearer  transportation  routes 
in  order  to  control  the  population  and  to  provide  a  ready  labor  sup- 
ply. In  the  late  1980s,  the  population  was  still  distributed  along 
main  roads  as  the  result  of  resettlements,  which  had  continued  into 
the  1930s  in  the  southwest. 

Ivoirian  settlement  patterns  in  the  late  1980s  also  revealed  con- 
tinued southward  migration  from  the  savanna  to  the  forest,  a  process 


47 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

first  set  in  motion  by  precolonial  invasions  from  the  north  and  con- 
tinued by  colonial  policies  emphasizing  cash  crop  and  plantation 
agriculture.  This  migration  pattern  was  aided  by  postindependence 
urban  and  industrial  development,  which  took  place  primarily  in 
the  southeast. 

Composition 

Urbanization  was  rapid  after  1950,  as  the  urban  population  grew 
by  an  average  of  1 1 .5  percent  per  year  until  1965  and  about  8  per- 
cent per  year  from  1966  to  1988.  As  a  result,  Cote  d'lvoire  had 
a  high  urban-rural  population  ratio  compared  with  the  rest  of  sub- 
Saharan  Africa.  Roughly  one-half  of  the  1987  population  lived  in 
urban  areas,  defined  as  localities  of  more  than  10,000  inhabitants 
and  those  of  more  than  4,000  inhabitants  where  more  than  half 
of  all  households  depended  on  nonagricultural  incomes.  In  1988 
about  20  percent  of  the  total  population  lived  in  the  capital  city 
of  Abidjan. 

Foreigners — mostly  West  Africans — made  up  from  27  percent 
to  50  percent  of  the  population  and  were  more  highly  urbanized 
than  indigenous  groups.  Foreign  migrants  have  sought  jobs  in 
Ivoirian  industry,  commerce,  and  plantation  agriculture  since  the 
beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  especially  after  World  War  II. 
Most  have  found  work  in  urban  areas,  but  in  1980  the  number 
of  Ivoirians  who  migrated  from  rural  to  urban  areas  was  almost 
equaled  by  the  75,000  migrant  farm  workers  from  neighboring 
states. 

Because  of  moderately  high  fertility,  falling  mortality  rates,  and 
labor  immigration,  the  Ivoirian  population  was  fairly  young  by 
world  standards  (see  fig.  5).  About  45  percent  of  the  1987  popula- 
tion was  under  the  age  of  fifteen,  and  the  dependency  ratio — the 
number  of  elderly  and  young  dependents  in  relation  to  100  working- 
age  adults — was  92  nationwide.  There  were  110  males  per  100 
females,  reflecting  the  largely  male  immigrant  work  force. 

Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages 

Ethnic  Diversity 

The  population  of  Cote  d'lvoire  is  ethnically  diverse.  More  than 
sixty  indigenous  ethnic  groups  are  often  cited,  although  this  num- 
ber may  be  reduced  to  seven  clusters  of  ethnic  groups  by  classify- 
ing small  units  together  on  the  basis  of  common  cultural  and 
historical  characteristics.  These  may  be  reduced  to  four  major  cul- 
tural regions — the  East  Atlantic  (primarily  Akan),  West  Atlantic 
(primarily  Krou),  Voltaic,  and  Mande — differentiated  in  terms  of 


48 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


environment,  economic  activity,  language,  and  over-Jl  cultural 
characteristics.  In  the  southern  half  of  the  country,  East  Atlantic 
and  West  Atlantic  cultures,  separated  by  the  Bandama  River,  each 
make  up  almost  one-third  of  the  indigenous  population.  Roughly 
one-third  of  the  indigenous  population  lives  in  the  north,  includ- 
ing Voltaic  peoples  in  the  northeast  and  Mande  in  the  northwest 
(see  fig.  6). 

In  Cote  d'lvoire,  as  across  Africa,  national  boundaries  reflect 
the  impact  of  colonial  rule  as  much  as  present-day  political  real- 
ity, bringing  nationalism  into  conflict  with  centuries  of  evolving 
ethnic  identification.  Each  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  large  cultural  group- 
ings has  more  members  outside  the  nation  than  within.  As  a  result, 
many  Ivoirians  have  strong  cultural  and  social  ties  with  people  in 
neighboring  countries.  These  centrifugal  pressures  provided  a 
challenge  to  political  leaders  in  the  1980s,  as  they  did  to  the  gover- 
nors of  the  former  French  colony. 

Most  representatives  of  East  Atlantic  cultures  are  Akan  peoples, 
speakers  of  languages  within  the  Kwa  branch  of  the  Niger-Congo 
language  family:  Many  are  descendants  of  eighteenth-century 
migrants  from  the  kingdom  of  Asante.  The  largest  Akan  popula- 
tions in  Cote  d'lvoire  are  the  Baoule,  who  make  up  nearly  15  per- 
cent of  the  total  population,  and  the  Agni  (Anyi),  who  make  up 
only  about  3  percent  of  the  total  (see  fig.  7).  Much  larger  Akan 
populations  live  in  Ghana  and  Togo.  Akan  societies  are  generally 
organized  into  farming  communities  but  have  a  history  of  highly 
centralized  chiefdoms  and  kingdoms  tracing  descent  through  mater- 
nal links.  In  the  region  that  is  now  Cote  d'lvoire,  they  did  not  form 
large  empires  like  the  Asante  of  Ghana. 

Smaller  groups  live  in  the  southeastern  lagoon  region,  where  con- 
tact and  intermarriage  between  the  Akan  and  earlier  inhabitants 
have  resulted  in  ways  of  life  that  reflect  elements  of  several  cul- 
tural traditions.  These  Lagoon  cultures  comprise  about  5  percent 
of  the  population.  They  depend  on  fishing  and  crop  cultivation  for 
subsistence  and  are  not  organized  into  centralized  polities  above 
the  village  level. 

Across  the  Bandama  River,  West  Atlantic  cultures  are  repre- 
sented by  Krou  peoples,  probably  the  oldest  of  Cote  d'lvoire's 
present-day  ethnic  groups.  Traditional  Krou  societies  were  or- 
ganized into  villages  relying  on  hunting  and  gathering  for  subsis- 
tence and  descent  groups  tracing  relationships  through  male 
forebears.  They  rarely  formed  centralized  chiefdoms.  The  largest 
Krou  population  in  Cote  d'lvoire  is  the  Bete,  who  made  up  about 
6  percent  of  the  population  in  the  1980s. 


49 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  March  17,  1988. 


Figure  5.  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988 

In  the  north,  cultural  differences  are  greater  than  in  the  south. 
Descendants  of  early  Mande  conquerors  occupy  territory  in  the 
northwest,  stretching  into  northern  Guinea  and  Mali.  The  nation 
of  Mali  took  its  name  from  one  of  the  largest  of  these  societies, 
the  Malinke.  In  the  1980s,  Mande  peoples — including  the  Malinke, 
Bambara,  Juula,  and  smaller,  related  groups — made  up  about  17 
percent  of  the  population  of  Cote  d'lvoire. 

To  the  east  of  the  Mande  are  Voltaic  peoples.  The  most  numer- 
ous of  these,  the  Senoufo,  made  up  about  10  percent  of  the  total 
population  in  the  1980s.  The  Senoufo  migrated  to  their  present 
location  from  the  northwest  in  the  sixteenth  and  nineteenth  cen- 
turies. Both  historical  periods  are  still  in  evidence  in  two  forms  of 
social  organization  found  in  the  area — one  based  on  small  descent 
groups  and  the  other  on  more  complex  confederations  similar  to 
those  of  the  Mande. 

Language  Diversity 

French  is  the  official  language  and  is  used  throughout  the  coun- 
try, but  linguistic  diversity  still  reflects  the  ethnographic  mosaic 
of  its  peoples.  Four  of  the  eight  major  branches  of  the  Niger-Congo 
language  family  are  represented,  including  the  Kwa,  Atlantic, 
Mande,  and  Voltaic  (Gur).  Language  areas  correspond  closely, 
but  not  exactly,  to  the  four  cultural  regions  of  the  nation. 


50 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Agni  and  Baoule,  both  Kwa  languages  and  to  some  extent  mutu- 
ally intelligible,  are  the  most  widely  spoken  languages  in  the  south. 
Variants  of  Mande  and  Senoufo  are  the  most  widely  spoken  in  the 
north  but  are  also  heard  in  virtually  all  southern  trading  areas.  Most 
Ivoirians  speak  two  or  more  languages  fluently,  but  no  single  Afri- 
can language  is  spoken  by  a  majority  of  the  population. 

French  is  used  in  schools  and  commerce  and  is  spoken  more  fre- 
quently by  men  than  by  women.  Most  publications,  including 
government  documents,  are  also  printed  in  French.  Vernacular 
newspapers  are  not  widely  available,  although  biblical  texts  and 
educational  materials  have  been  translated  into  major  African  lan- 
guages. 

Arabic  is  taught  in  Quranic  schools,  which  are  most  common 
in  the  north,  and  is  spoken  by  immigrants  from  Lebanon  and  Syria. 
Non-Ivoirian  African  languages  are  also  heard,  including  Mossi, 
Gourounsi,  Fanti,  Ewe,  Fon,  and  Wolof.  Many  Ivoirians  under- 
stand English,  which  is  taught  in  high  school  and  at  the  National 
University  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (formerly  the  University  of  Abidjan), 
but  English  is  not  popular  even  among  educated  people. 

Lineage  Patterns 

In  Cote  d'lvoire,  as  in  most  of  Africa,  family  relationships  reflect 
beliefs  about  kinship  that  differ  markedly  from  those  of  most  Euro- 
peans and  Americans.  Kinship  groups  are  relatively  resistant  to 
change  through  modernization,  and,  as  a  result,  one  traditional 
descent  group — the  lineage — is  so  common  that  it  can  be  discussed 
in  general  terms,  without  reference  to  specific  Ivoirian  cultures. 
The  organization  of  the  lineage  is  based  on  the  belief  that  relation- 
ships traced  through  males  and  those  traced  through  females  are 
substantially  different.  Kinship  terms  and  behavioral  expectations 
differ  accordingly. 

The  patrilineage,  or  group  formed  by  tracing  descent  through 
male  forebears  to  a  male  ancestor,  is  an  important  social  unit 
throughout  most  of  Africa.  In  eastern  Cote  d'lvoire,  however,  many 
societies  are  organized  into  matrilineages,  tracing  descent  through 
female  forebears  to  one  female  ancestor.  Each  type  of  lineage  in- 
cludes both  men  and  women,  sometimes  five  or  six  generations 
removed  from  the  founding  ancestor,  but  the  linking  relatives  are 
of  one  gender.  In  this  way,  second  and  third  cousins  within  the 
same  lineage  may  be  considered  closer  relatives  than  first  cousins 
in  two  different  lineages,  i.e.,  children  of  a  brother  and  sister. 

Lineages  generally  share  corporate  responsibility  for  socializing 
the  young  and  maintaining  conformity  to  social  norms.  Lineage 
elders  often  meet  to  settle  disputes,  to  prescribe  or  enforce  rules 


51 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


DIDA 


International 
boundary 

,  Cultural  region 
boundary 

National  capital 
Ethnic  group 

Kilometers 


CULTURAL  REGIONS 
0  Mande 

(2)  Krou 

(3)  Voltaic 

0  Akan 

Cultural  regions  have  only  one  major 
family  language  but  may  include 
several  ethnic  groups. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  J. -C.  Arnaud,  "Ethnies,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  27. 


Figure  6.  Major  Ethnic  Groups,  1983 

of  etiquette  and  marriage,  to  discuss  lineage  concerns,  and  in  gen- 
eral to  preserve  the  group  itself.  They  also  serve  as  pressure  groups 
on  individuals,  bringing  nonconformists  in  line  with  socially  accepted 
standards.  Lineage  rules  usually  require  individuals  to  marry  out- 
side their  lineage,  and  the  resulting  alliances  are  important  sources 
of  social  cohesion.  Although  these  practices  were  widely  condemned 
by  some  of  the  teachings  of  early  European  missionaries  and  by 
colonial  officials,  they  have  been  preserved  nonetheless  because  they 


52 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


provide  a  coherent  set  of  expectations  by  which  people  can  live  in 
harmony  with  the  universe  as  it  is  perceived  in  that  society. 

Lineage  ties  serve  to  emphasize  the  unity  of  living  and  deceased 
relatives  by  descent  through  ritual  observances  and  ceremonies. 
At  times,  however,  lineages  break  apart  in  response  to  the  pres- 
sure of  interpersonal  rivalries  or  when  they  become  too  large  to 
maintain  close  ties.  When  such  fission  occurs,  related  lineages  usu- 
ally maintain  some  ties  and  celebrate  occasions  together.  If  they 
consider  their  alliance  important  enough  to  be  preserved  for  several 
generations,  the  resulting  confederation  of  lineages,  usually  termed 
a  clan,  may  include  thousands  of  individuals  and  become  a  power- 
ful interest  group  in  the  regional  or  national  context.  Aside  from 
their  political  potential,  many  aspects  of  lineage  behavior  and  ex- 
pectation are  still  important  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  giving  people  their 
sense  of  history  and  social  responsibility  and  serving  to  define  the 
role  of  the  individual  in  society. 

East  Atlantic  Cultures 

Akan 

Akan  societies  are  best  known  for  the  large  kingdom  of  Asante, 
which  evolved  in  what  is  now  Ghana.  The  westernmost  Akan 
peoples — the  Agni,  Baoule,  and  several  smaller  groups — are  descen- 
dants of  people  who  fled  from  Asante  and  now  make  up  about  one- 
fifth  of  the  Ivoirian  population. 

Historians  believe  that  Akan  civilization  evolved  in  stages,  be- 
ginning about  A.D.  1000,  forming  urban  setdements  by  about  A.D. 
1400,  and  giving  rise  to  the  Asante  and  other  large  kingdoms  by 
about  A.D.  1600.  They  became  known  for  their  elaborate  use  of 
gold,  their  military  organization,  and  their  success  in  international 
trade.  Military  expertise  probably  provided  the  basis  for  their 
regional  dominance,  but  their  dramatic  success  from  A.D.  1600 
on  also  resulted  from  their  use  of  slaves  in  gold  mining  and  agricul- 
ture and  from  the  spread  of  Islam. 

Most  Akan  societies  are  organized  into  matrilineages  (abusua). 
Each  lineage  is  identified  with  a  home  village  or  section  of  a  town, 
although  lineage  members  may  be  dispersed.  Lineages  demonstrate 
their  autonomy  with  respect  to  other  similar  groups  through  the 
ownership  of  a  symbolic  chair  or  stool,  named  for  the  female  founder 
of  the  lineage.  Possession  of  the  ritually  important  stool  is  seen  as 
vital  to  the  existence  of  the  group.  Large  lineages  may  segment 
into  branches,  each  led  by  an  elder  or  headman,  but  a  branch  does 
not  possess  a  stool  as  a  symbol  of  its  social  autonomy. 


53 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Southern  Mande 


Mande 


Krou 


Senoufo 


Lobi 


Foreigners 


Akan 


Lagoon  Peoples 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Department  of  State,  "The  Tribes  of 
the  Ivory  Coast,"  April  1970;  and  Cote  d'lvoire,  National  Census  Information, 


Figure  7.  Percentage  of  Population  by  Ethnic  Cluster,  1988 

Despite  their  matrifocal  center,  Akan  societies  are  dominated 
by  men.  Men  occupy  most  leadership  positions,  but  they  succeed 
former  leaders  based  on  their  relationship  through  their  mothers 
and  sisters.  Thus,  a  leader  is  succeeded,  and  his  valuable  property 
is  inherited,  by  his  brother  or  his  sister's  son. 

Matrilineal  descent  and  inheritance  produce  particular  strains 
in  the  social  fabric  under  the  pressures  of  modernization.  Tensions 
often  arise  between  a  man's  sons,  who  help  him  acquire  wealth 
and  property,  and  his  sister's  sons,  who  may  inherit  it.  Similarly, 
a  man  is  expected  to  support  children  of  deceased  maternal  rela- 
tives, a  demand  that  may  conflict  with  the  interests  of  his  own  chil- 
dren. Akan  people  used  to  cope  with  this  contradiction  by  allowing 
a  senior  woman  in  the  lineage  to  rule  that  a  matrilineal  relative 
had  to  relinquish  his  rights  in  favor  of  a  man's  son.  More  recently, 
the  Ivoirian  government  has  refused  to  enforce  legal  claims  to 
matrilineal  rights  and  has  condemned,  but  not  eliminated,  prac- 
tices related  to  matrilineal  descent. 

Agni  political  organization  was  derived  from  its  lineage  foun- 
dations, in  that  lineages  grouped  in  villages  were  united  as  a  chief- 
dom.  The  chief  served  as  the  guardian  and  protector  of  this  domain 


1976. 


54 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  as  priest,  judge,  administrator,  and  custodian  of  the  sacred 
stool,  which  in  the  1980s  was  still  recognized  as  a  symbol  of  unity 
of  the  entire  chiefdom.  An  Agni  chief  was  succeeded  by  a  man  nomi- 
nated by  the  senior  women  of  the  lineage.  This  nominee,  usually 
one  of  the  deceased  chief  s  matrilineal  heirs,  was  confirmed,  or  on 
rare  occasions  rejected,  by  a  council  of  lineage  elders.  Most  of  the 
chiefs'  traditional  political  authority  has  been  eroded  or  transformed 
by  modern  national  law,  but  their  ritual  authority  remained  im- 
portant in  the  1980s,  confirmed  by  their  custody  of  the  sacred  stool. 

The  Agni  were  particularly  successful  at  assimilating  other  groups 
into  their  political  organization,  with  the  result  that  many  people 
in  the  southeast  trace  their  ancestry  both  to  Agni  chiefdoms  and 
to  smaller,  distinct  societies  that  fell  under  Agni  control.  One 
mechanism  of  assimilation  was  grouping  semiautonomous  chief- 
doms under  an  Agni  paramount  chief,  who  held  ultimate  author- 
ity over  his  subjects.  In  at  least  four  regions,  these  polities  evolved 
into  kingdoms — Indenie,  Moronou,  Comoenou,  and  Sanwi — which 
still  evoke  strong  loyalties  and  ethnic  pride.  The  continuing  im- 
portance of  the  kingdoms  was  demonstrated  in  1959  and  1969,  when 
Sanwi  attempted  to  secede  from  Cote  d'lvoire  in  the  hope  of  demon- 
strating Agni  autonomy  from  Baoule  domination. 

In  1988  the  Baoule  constituted  about  15  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion, making  this  the  nation's  largest  indigenous  ethnic  group, 
although  the  Agni  population  in  neighboring  states  was  larger. 
Baoule  society  was  less  highly  centralized  than  the  Agni,  with  vil- 
lages grouped  into  small  chiefdoms.  Baoule  agricultural  successes 
were  remarkable,  however,  partly  because  of  careful  control  of  land, 
which  was  held  in  common  by  an  entire  village  and  redistributed 
each  year  to  those  most  efficient  at  cultivating  it.  Hunting  sup- 
plemented agriculture. 

The  Baoule  were  also  successful  in  absorbing  neighboring  peo- 
ples into  their  society  by  political  means  and  intermarriage.  Baoule 
women  married  freely  into  other  societies,  in  part  because  their 
children  inherited  their  lineage  membership  from  their  mother.  As 
a  result,  many  Baoule  still  have  extended  kin  ties  reaching  into 
other  ethnic  communities,  and  this  network  provides  political  sup- 
port for  Baoule  politicians.  Assimilation  by  the  Baoule  also  involved 
the  transfer  of  their  myth  of  origin — which  emphasized  the  value 
of  agriculture,  respect  for  authority,  and  individual  sacrifice  for 
society — to  smaller  neighboring  groups. 

Ivoirian  president  Houphouet-Boigny  has  used  his  Baoule  iden- 
tity pragmatically  to  pursue  political  goals.  For  example,  he  re- 
fused to  name  a  successor  to  his  presidency,  saying  that  to  do  so 
was  not  in  keeping  with  tradition.  At  the  same  time,  he  condemned 


55 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

the  Baoule  traditional  practice  of  matrilineal  inheritance  and  de- 
scent for  failing  to  strengthen  the  unity  of  the  nuclear  family,  which 
he  considers  the  pillar  of  modern  Ivoirian  society  and  the  main- 
stay of  economic  development. 

Most  influential  among  smaller  Akan  cultures  of  eastern  Cote 
d'lvoire  are  the  Abron  (Brong  in  Ghana),  Aboure,  Ehotile,  and 
Nzima.  Together  they  make  up  only  about  2  percent  of  the  total 
population.  All  are  matrilineal  peoples  with  a  heterogeneous  popu- 
lation and  mixed  economy.  None  achieved  the  elaborate  political 
centralization  of  the  Agni  nor  the  postindependence  importance  of 
the  Baoule. 

Lagoon  Cultures 

Along  the  coastline  from  the  nation's  eastern  border  to  the  Ban- 
dama  River  is  a  series  of  lagoons,  where  fishing  and  trading 
dominate  local  economies.  Lagoon  societies  include  the  Mekyibo, 
Attie,  Mbato,  Ebrie,  Abidji,  Adioukrou,  Alladian,  Avikam,  Abbe, 
and  others,  each  of  which,  in  turn,  is  known  by  a  variety  of  names 
within  the  region  and  is  subdivided  into  smaller  groups. 

Residents  of  inland  villages  are  subsistence  farmers,  and  many 
lagoon  peoples  produce  cash  crops.  Although  not  Akan  language 
speakers,  they  speak  related  Kwa  languages  and  are  organized  into 
matrilineages  and  chiefdoms  similar  to  the  Agni  and  Baoule  to  the 
north.  This  cultural  assimilation  reflects  the  local  history  of  occa- 
sional domination  by  Akan  armies  from  the  north.  Ebrie,  Attie, 
and  Adioukrou  societies  are  further  segmented  into  age  classes 
organized  for  warfare,  mutual  aid,  and  communal  work  projects. 
Age-groups  continued  to  operate  in  the  1980s,  providing  an  im- 
portant source  of  social  cohesion. 

Although  the  nation's  capital,  Abidjan,  is  in  traditional  Ebrie 
territory,  the  Ebrie  made  up  less  than  10  percent  of  the  popula- 
tion of  the  city  in  the  late  1980s.  Many  local  groups  have  been  dis- 
placed by  Akan  peoples  and  others  moving  into  the  densely 
populated  southeast  corner  of  the  nation.  Some  of  these  survive 
in  scattered  villages;  others  were  absorbed  into  the  coastal  econ- 
omy by  early  French  arrivals  and  flourished  under  this  arrange- 
ment. As  a  result,  this  complex  and  heterogeneous  lagoon  region 
exhibits  an  eclectic  variety  of  cultural  and  linguistic  traits  that  defy 
simple  classification. 

West  Atlantic  Cultures 

Krou 

The  dominant  peoples  in  the  southwest  region,  where  the  forest 
zone  reaches  the  coastal  lagoons,  are  the  Krou.  Krou  languages  are 


56 


Lobi  homestead,  northeastern 
Cote  d'lvoire 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 


a  subgroup  within  the  Kwa  branch  of  the  Niger-Congo  language 
family,  related  to  those  of  the  Akan  and  lagoon  peoples  to  their 
east.  Krou  societies  are  found  along  the  coast  from  Monrovia, 
Liberia,  to  the  Bandama  River  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  They  include  the 
Bete,  Dida,  Guere,  Wobe,  and  several  smaller  groups. 

Krou  cultures  generally  lack  the  centralization  characteristic  of 
the  Akan  to  the  east.  The  basic  social  unit  is  the  patrilineage,  trac- 
ing descent  through  males  to  a  common  male  ancestor  for  both 
men  and  women.  The  lineage,  which  usually  coincides  with  a  vil- 
lage, is  further  subdivided  into  segments  or  branches.  Village  leader- 
ship may  be  exercised  by  a  council  of  elders,  sometimes  headed 
by  a  chief  whose  power  is  limited  by  the  council.  The  result  is  an 
uncentralized,  but  not  anarchic,  society.  Few  status  distinctions 
are  recognized  other  than  age  and  lineage  membership,  although 
many  Krou  people  kept  slaves  from  neighboring  societies  before 
the  arrival  of  European  slave  traders.  Villages  maintain  ties  based 
on  presumed  common  descent,  reinforced  by  ceremonial  exchanges 
and  gifts.  Unrelated  villages  maintained  neutral  relations  but  were 
rarely  united  into  a  larger  polity  until  the  colonial  era. 

For  their  livelihood,  the  Krou  rely  on  farming  supplemented  by 
hunting  in  forest  areas.  Land  is  held  collectively  by  members  of 
a  village  but  is  worked  by  individual  lineage  branches  or  families. 
Age-groups  were  traditionally  assigned  military  and  religious 
responsibilities,  and  they  still  organized  communal  work  projects 


57 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  late  1980s.  Women  were  important  in  the  village,  with 
responsibilities  for  most  activity  concerning  crops.  They  also  formed 
age-groups  or  village  councils,  which  were  traditionally  consulted 
before  implementing  political  decisions,  although  women's  coun- 
cils lost  influence  under  colonial  rule. 

The  Bete,  the  largest  Krou  society,  are  probably  the  descendants 
of  groups  pushed  southward  from  savanna  woodland  to  forested 
areas  by  warfare  to  the  north.  They  are  divided  into  patrilineage- 
based  villages,  often  allied  with  other  villages  by  tracing  descent  to 
a  common  ancestor.  Lineage  exogamy  prohibits  marriage  within  the 
patrilineage  and  contributes  to  links  among  patrilineages  through 
intermarriage. 

Marriage  is  a  family  responsibility,  as  it  is  in  many  societies. 
The  family  of  the  groom  compensates  the  family  of  the  bride  for 
their  loss,  a  practice  crudely  translated  as  "bride-price."  This  ex- 
change legitimizes  children  of  the  marriage,  who  are  considered 
members  of  their  father's  patrilineage,  while  their  mother  retains 
her  membership  in  her  father's  lineage. 

Polygyny,  or  plural  marriage  by  Bete  men,  remained  relatively 
common  in  the  1980s,  although  as  in  all  societies,  it  was  an  expen- 
sive means  of  gaining  prestige,  sexual  access,  and  children,  and 
it  was  not  recognized  by  Ivoirian  law.  Divorce,  although  not  com- 
mon, was  socially  acceptable  and  allowed  children  to  retain  their 
membership  in  their  father's  patrilineage  even  if  they  continued 
to  live  with  their  mother. 

In  the  twentieth  century,  the  Bete  have  been  recognized  for  their 
success  in  cash  cropping  and  for  their  widespread  acceptance  of 
Christianity.  They  have  a  strong  ethnic  consciousness  despite  these 
foreign  influences  and  have  been  active  both  within  the  govern- 
ment and  in  antigovernment  dissent  groups  since  independence. 
They  also  have  a  long  history  of  resistance  to  foreign  domination 
and  strong  beliefs  in  their  own  cultural  superiority. 

Around  the  Bete  are  a  number  of  smaller  groups,  including  the 
Dida,  Guere,  Wobe,  Neyo,  Niaboua,  and  several  others.  Most  are 
organized  into  farming  villages,  with  a  greater  dependence  on  fish- 
ing along  the  coast.  Many  villages  share  common  basic  features 
with  neighboring  groups,  and  most  have  an  ethnically  mixed  labor 
force  and  large  immigrant  population.  Some  have  adopted  myths 
of  origin  of  other  groups  to  legitimize  their  pride  in  their  past,  and 
many  maintain  strong  loyalties  to  the  region,  despite  their  appar- 
ent mixed  origins. 

The  Southern  Mande 

Dan  and  Gouro  cultures  of  western  Cote  d'lvoire  share  numer- 
ous culture  traits  in  common  with  the  Krou  peoples  to  their  south, 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


but  they  speak  languages  related  to  that  of  the  Mande  to  their  north. 
Their  traditional  political  organization  was  not  complex,  resem- 
bling the  villages  of  the  southwest  more  than  the  highly  central- 
ized polities  of  the  Mande.  /Because  of  their  cultural  eclecticism, 
the  Dan,  Gouro,  and  smaller,  related  groups  of  west-central  Cote 
d'lvoire  are  sometimes  classified  as  Southern  Mande  or  ' 'Peripheral 
Mande, ' '  a  label  they  would  reject.  They  made  up  slightly  less  than 
8  percent  of  the  total  population  in  the  late  1980s. 

Mande  Cultures 

The  largest  cultural  complex  in  northwestern  Cote  d'lvoire  is 
that  of  the  Mande  peoples,  descendants  of  renowned  inventors  of 
West  African  agriculture — independent  of,  but  approximately  coin- 
cident with,  early  crop  domestication  in  the  Middle  East.  As  traders, 
artisans,  and  cultivators,  they  developed  highly  complex  political 
structures.  Two  large  empires  are  still  remembered  today — the 
Soninke  Empire  of  Ghana,  which  dates  from  about  the  fourth  to 
the  thirteenth  century,  and  the  Malinke  Empire  of  Mali.  The 
Malinke,  like  the  Soninke,  extended  their  dominion  into  what  is 
now  northern  Cote  d'lvoire  between  the  thirteenth  and  fifteenth 
centuries  (see  Pre-European  Period,  ch.  1).  In  about  1670,  their 
Bambara  subjects  threw  off  Malinke  rule  and  established  several 
independent  states,  which  were  attacked  by  Fulani  armies  in  the 
nineteenth  century  and  subsequently  fell  under  the  domination  of 
a  Malinke  conqueror,  Samori  Toure. 

Most  Mande  societies  are  organized  into  patrilineages  and 
agricultural  homesteads.  Animal  husbandry  plays  an  important  role 
in  the  economy,  although  commerce  is  also  well  developed,  with 
large  markets  in  both  rural  and  urban  settings. 

Among  the  three  Mande  groups  that  continue  to  dominate  the 
northwest  are  the  Malinke,  also  found  in  neighboring  Guinea  and 
Mali,  and  the  Bambara,  most  of  whom  live  in  Mali.  More  recent 
Mande  immigrants  to  the  region  include  the  Juula,  who  are  dis- 
persed throughout  the  nation  but  are  identified  with  the  area  near 
the  city  of  Kong.  None  of  these  three  groups  retains  its  ancient 
hierarchical  political  structure,  but  each  has  a  hereditary  nobility 
and  fairly  extensive  social  stratification.  The  Malinke  and  Bambara 
group  men  and  women  according  to  fairly  narrow  age  ranges,  and 
the  resultant  sororities  and  fraternities  serve  to  strengthen  social 
solidarity  and  organize  communal  work  projects. 

Most  Mande  people  speak  variants  of  a  common  language,  some- 
times referred  to  as  Mande-kan,  and  they  share  numerous  other 
cultural  traits.  At  the  same  time,  they  have  different  histories  and 


59 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


myths  of  origin,  and,  most  important  from  their  point  of  view,  they 
have  different  religions. 

The  Bambara  have  retained  the  substance  of  local  beliefs  and 
practices  and  are  known  locally  as  pagans.  The  Malinke  have 
adapted  tenets  of  Islam  to  their  native  beliefs,  creating  a  wide  vari- 
ety of  Islamic  and  syncretic  sects.  The  Juula  are  strongly  Muslim — 
so  much  so  that  many  Bambara  refer  to  themselves  as  Juula  if  they 
convert  to  Islam.  Similarly,  in  other  areas  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  Mus- 
lim Malinke  are  referred  to  as  Juula  outside  their  home  area,  in 
recognition  of  their  Islamic  beliefs.  Non-Muslims  in  the  northwest 
are  often  called  Bambara,  regardless  of  ethnic  affiliation. 

The  term  Juula  is  also  a  local  term  for  a  trader  and  is  used  am- 
biguously in  the  region  to  refer  to  merchants  and  sedentary  descen- 
dants of  former  Juula.  The  lines  of  ethnic  identity  are  also  blurred 
because  traders  are  often  recognized  authorities  on  Islamic  law  and 
may  be  Juula  in  both  senses  of  the  term. 

The  Juula  have  a  history  of  itinerant  preaching,  teaching,  and 
trading,  and  they  won  converts  easily  in  areas  characterized  by 
patrilineal  descent,  patriarchal  family  organization,  and  plural  mar- 
riage. The  Wattara  clan  (jaamu)  among  the  Juula  was  centered  in 
the  region  of  Kong,  where  it  developed  into  a  mini-kingdom  sur- 
rounded by  Senoufo  people  and  was  destroyed  by  Samori  Toure 
in  the  nineteenth  century. 

Voltaic  Cultures 

Voltaic  cultures  are  found  in  northeastern  Cote  d'lvoire,  northern 
Ghana,  and  Burkina  Faso.  They  share  cultural  similarities  with 
the  Mande  peoples  to  their  west  but  have  not  influenced  the  polit- 
ical history  of  the  region  to  the  same  extent.  Northern  Voltaic 
peoples — such  as  the  Mossi,  who  are  based  outside  Cote  d'lvoire — 
built  large  empires,  but  the  Senoufo  and  the  Lobi  are  organized 
into  small  chiefdoms  based  on  unilineal  descent. 

The  Senoufo  occupy  north-central  Cote  d'lvoire,  Mali,  and 
Burkina  Faso  and  are  also  known  as  the  Seniambele  and  Siena. 
Senoufo  is  a  Juula  word  meaning  "speaker  of  Sene,"  but  language 
is  among  the  few  culture  traits  that  unify  this  heterogeneous  group. 
They  have  several  myths  of  origin,  each  popular  in  a  different  area. 
Several  of  these  involve  an  ancestor  known  as  Nangui  or  Nengue, 
who  left  the  Juula  capital  of  Kong  to  establish  the  Senoufo  city  of 
Korhogo,  which  means  "heritage."  Senoufo  history  refers  to  Juula 
traders  as  early  as  the  thirteenth  century,  when  Islam  arrived  in 
the  region.  The  territory  was  raided  by  Samori  Toure  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century,  and  the  resulting  decline  continued  into  colonial 
times. 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  Senoufo  economy  is  primarily  agricultural.  Commerce  is 
well  developed  in  the  area,  but  in  most  cases  it  is  conducted  by 
Juula  rather  than  Senoufo  traders.  The  close  relationship  between 
the  Senoufo  farmer  and  the  land  is  emphasized  in  religious  obser- 
vances and  mediated  through  the  lineage.  Each  lineage  has  a  mythi- 
cal ancestor,  often  identified  with  an  animal  that  is  said  to  have 
helped  found  the  lineage.  This  animal,  or  "totem,"  occupies  a  spe- 
cial niche  in  the  Senoufo  worldview,  as  the  subject  of  a  ritual  taboo 
and  symbol  of  social  unity.  The  head  of  the  lineage  exercises  moral 
and  religious  authority  and  is  believed  to  propitiate  local  gods  and 
ensure  good  harvests.  Aside  from  the  lineage  head,  status  distinc- 
tions are  relatively  few,  although  many  people  kept  slaves  from 
other  societies  until  well  into  the  twentieth  century. 

Villages  are  unified  by  male  age- grades,  uniting  youths  close  in 
age  within  secret  brotherhoods  known  as  poro  in  this  region  and 
parts  of  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia.  Poro  societies  have  survived  in 
part  because  they  help  maintain  order,  especially  in  times  of  so- 
cial upheaval.  They  also  serve  as  repositories  of  social  customs  and 
religious  values,  providing  a  conservative  balance  against  the  rapid 
acculturation  in  Ivoirian  society  as  a  whole. 

Akan  influence  is  fairly  strong  among  the  Senoufo,  some  of  whom 
have  adopted  matrilineal  descent  systems  resembling  that  of  the 
Akan.  Villages  were  unified  under  the  authority  of  an  appointed 
chief  during  colonial  times,  a  practice  that  drew  villagers  into  the 
national  system  but  also  disrupted  established  channels  of  authority 
and  was  resisted  by  many  of  the  culturally  conservative  Senoufo 
people. 

Adjacent  to  Senoufo  territory  are  the  Lobi,  Koulango,  and  several 
smaller  Voltaic  societies.  They  inhabit  an  isolated,  relatively  unde- 
veloped corner  of  the  country.  They  probably  arrived  in  the  area 
from  the  east  and  organized  themselves  in  autonomous  villages. 
They  resisted  the  spread  of  Islam,  which  was  brought  by  Juula 
traders  and  teachers  over  several  centuries.  More  recently,  they 
have  rejected  many  aspects  of  European  acculturation  and  lack  the 
overall  fascination  with  economic  progress  that  characterizes  much 
of  the  nation. 

Foreigners 

The  presence  of  a  large  foreign  population — estimated  by  some 
to  be  as  high  as  50  percent  of  the  total  in  1985 — complicates  eth- 
nic relations  in  Cote  dT voire.  The  area  was  the  scene  of  popula- 
tion migration  and  mobility  long  before  the  imposition  of  national 
boundaries.  Many  ethnic  groups  overlap  present  boundaries,  plac- 
ing citizenship  and  ethnic  loyalties  in  conflict,  and  some  foreigners 


61 


62 


63 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

have  remained  in  Cote  d'lvoire  long  enough  to  feel  they  are  Ivoi- 
rians.  Official  demographic  and  employment  data  often  include 
immigrant  workers  and  residents.  Despite  these  complications,  the 
government  has  attempted  to  codify  the  legal  distinction  between 
citizen  and  noncitizen,  and  this  distinction  is  becoming  increas- 
ingly important  to  many  people. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  the  largest  single  foreign  minority  group  was 
the  Burkinabe,  most  of  Mossi  ethnic  identity,  who  numbered  about 
1.2  million — nearly  one-half  of  the  foreign  population.  Unlike  most 
other  foreigners,  Mossi  immigrants  were  concentrated  in  rural  areas, 
where  they  worked  as  agricultural  laborers.  Some  Mossi  workers 
were  also  found  in  low- wage  urban  jobs. 

Other  ethnic  groups  represented  in  the  foreign  population  in- 
cluded Krou  peoples  from  Liberia,  Fanti  and  Ewe  from  Ghana, 
and  smaller  numbers  of  Bobo,  Gourounsi,  Dogon,  Hausa,  Djerma, 
and  Fulani  from  neighboring  states.  Lebanese  immigrants,  offi- 
cially estimated  at  60,000  but  possibly  numbering  close  to  200,000 
in  1987,  worked  in  commerce  and  business  in  many  towns.  The 
French  population,  once  as  high  as  60,000,  had  declined  to  about 
30,000,  or  the  same  number  as  at  independence.  Other  Europeans 
and  Africans  were  also  found  in  this  complex  and  cosmopolitan 
nation. 

The  Role  of  Religion 

Most  Ivoirians  practice  local  religions,  which  are  sometimes  in- 
fused with  elements  of  Christianity  or  Islam,  or  both.  Government 
estimates  in  the  1980s  suggested  that  about  one-fourth  of  the  popu- 
lation was  Muslim  and  one-eighth,  Christian — mostly  Roman 
Catholic. 

Islam  and  Christianity  are  practiced  in  a  variety  of  forms  through- 
out the  country,  as  different  social  and  spiritual  problems  bring 
forth  a  variety  of  responses.  Islam  has  been  practiced  in  the  far 
north  for  roughly  seven  centuries,  shifting  its  appeal  over  this  time 
from  its  strength  as  a  world  religion  and  its  basis  in  written  testa- 
ments to  its  symbolic  importance  as  an  alternative  to  European 
religions.  Christian  missionaries  arrived  at  the  coast  in  the  seven- 
teenth century  but  did  not  win  converts  in  large  numbers  until  the 
nineteenth  century.  Christianity's  appeal  was  strongest  among  edu- 
cated Africans  and  those  who  sought  advancement  through  Euro- 
pean contact.  Christian  holidays  are  officially  recognized,  but 
Muslim  celebrations  are  also  held,  and,  as  in  many  areas  of  na- 
tional life,  tolerance  is  the  general  attitude  toward  the  practice  of 
religion. 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Religious  communities  generally  coexist  peacefully,  in  part  be- 
cause no  world  religion  has  been  enthusiastically  embraced  by  a 
majority  of  people.  Conversions  have  been  an  individual  matter 
in  most  cases,  and  many  families  include  Muslims  and  Christians 
living  together.  Religious  tolerance  is  also  part  of  government  pol- 
icy. The  president  personally  contributes  to  the  cost  of  building 
mosques  and  churches,  and  he  encourages  both  Muslims  and  Chris- 
tians to  assist  in  projects  undertaken  by  other  religious  communi- 
ties. Religious  practitioners  have  also  earned  substantial  goodwill 
through  the  services  they  offer  their  communities,  especially  in 
health  and  education,  and  by  their  overall  contribution  to  social 
harmony. 

The  Constitution  calls  for  a  secular  state,  although  this  is  not 
interpreted  as  strict  separation  of  church  and  state.  Officials  often 
attend  religious  ceremonies  as  representatives  of  the  state,  and  some 
mission  schools  receive  government  aid.  Missionaries  are  gener- 
ally welcomed  throughout  the  nation,  although  their  teachings  sel- 
dom replace  centuries-old  systems  of  spiritual  belief  and  practice 
that  form  the  basis  of  cultural  unity. 

African  religions  have  maintained  their  credibility  because  they 
provide  effective  explanations  for  many  of  life's  dilemmas  in  ways 
that  can  only  be  understood  in  their  cultural  context.  Local  religions 
reassure  people  that  they  are  living  in  harmony  with  the  universe 
and  that  this  harmony  can  be  preserved  by  maintaining  proper  rela- 
tionships with  all  beings.  For  this  reason,  separating  religion  from 
other  aspects  of  life  serves  to  distort,  rather  than  clarify,  its  meaning. 

According  to  most  local  belief  systems,  spiritual  beings — a  cre- 
ator, ancestral  spirits,  and  spirits  associated  with  places  and 
objects — can  influence  a  person's  life  and  luck.  This  is  the  major 
premise  on  which  belief  and  practice  are  based.  The  distinction 
between  the  spiritual  and  physical  "worlds,"  in  Western  secular 
terms,  is  unimportant  in  the  face  of  what  is  interpreted  as  over- 
whelming evidence  that  physical  events  may  have  spiritual  causes. 

Lineages  are  also  important  in  understanding  the  organization 
of  many  Ivoirian  religions.  The  spiritual  unity  of  the  descent  group 
transcends  distinctions  among  the  unborn,  the  living,  and  the  de- 
ceased. In  this  context,  religious  differences  are  not  based  on  dis- 
agreements over  dogma  or  doctrine.  Rather,  groups  living  in 
different  social  and  physical  environments  encounter  different 
spiritual  and  physical  dangers,  and  their  religious  needs  differ  ac- 
cordingly. This  diversity  accounts,  in  part,  for  early  missionaries 
in  West  Africa  who  often  described  the  spiritual  "chaos"  they  en- 
countered, when  they  were  actually  observing  different  social  group- 
ings, each  with  different  spiritual  obligations  to  ancestral  and  other 


65 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


spirits,  acting  in  accordance  with  common  beliefs  about  the  na- 
ture of  the  universe. 

Local  Religions 

Religions  of  the  South 

Most  Akan  recognize  a  supreme  being,  Nyame,  who  created  all 
things  and  from  whom  lesser  gods  derive  their  power.  Nyame  is  not 
worshiped  directiy  but  is  approached  through  intermediaries.  These 
lesser  gods  (abosom)  may  inhabit  lakes,  streams,  rivers,  or  trees. 
Below  them  are  minor  deities  whose  power  is  invoked  through  amu- 
lets or  charms  (suman)  worn  for  protection. 

Ancestral  spirits  (samanfo)  surpass  these  deities  in  importance 
among  most  Akan  peoples,  as  it  is  the  ancestors  who  safeguard  the 
prosperity  of  the  lineage  and  provide  assistance  in  meeting  daily 
challenges.  Ancestral  spirits  are  often  consulted,  offered  food  and 
drink,  and  reminded  that  people  are  depending  on  them,  in  the 
hope  that  an  individual  will  be  able  to  act  with  confidence,  espe- 
cially in  dealing  with  others  in  the  lineage.  Failure  to  perform 
sacrifices  to  ancestral  spirits  not  only  damages  a  person  spiritually 
but  also  brings  forth  the  wrath  of  the  ancestor  and  can  result  in 
tragedy  or  unhappiness. 

An  individual's  spirit,  or  soul  (elaka  among  the  Agni;  okra  among 
the  Baoule),  is  immortal  and  indestructible.  A  living  individual  also 
possesses  other  spiritual  substances,  including  sunsum,  which  is 
adaptable  and  determines  a  person's  character,  and  mogya,  which 
determines  a  person's  membership  in  a  matrilineage.  Through 
transgressions — failure  to  perform  rituals  or  obey  moral  precepts — 
an  individual  can  damage  the  soul  or  lose  it  entirely.  Upon  death, 
the  soul  (or  in  some  areas,  part  of  the  soul)  may  enter  the  kingdom 
of  the  dead,  where  its  existence  is  happy  and  peaceful,  or  it  may 
reenter  a  human  being  to  continue  on  its  path  toward  fulfillment. 

Akan  religious  practitioners  include  lineage  heads,  village  chiefs 
(when  the  head  and  the  chief  are  not  the  same  individual),  and 
priests  who  officiate  at  ritual  observances  for  cults  honoring  specific 
deities.  These  priests  (akomfo)  undergo  extensive  training  as  ap- 
prentices to  established  practitioners.  Priests  can  also  act  as  diviners, 
and  the  most  esteemed  among  them  are  believed  to  be  clairvoyant, 
able  to  locate  the  source  of  spiritual  difficulty  for  their  clients,  who 
consult  them  for  a  fee.  They  also  give  instructions  for  coping  with 
adversity.  Priests  sometimes  act  as  doctors,  since  many  diseases 
are  believed  to  have  spiritual  causes. 

Sorcerers  (obayifo)  are  spiritual  practitioners  who,  in  the  Akan 
worldview,  bring  about  evil.  Their  actions  are  believed  to  be 


66 


Man  with  a  radio,  Bondoukou 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 
Drummer,  Broukro 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 
Mauritanian  shopkeeper, 
Bondoukou 
Courtesy  Karen  Peterson 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

motivated  by  envy  or  hatred,  and,  it  is  feared,  they  may  be  em- 
ployed by  one's  enemies.  Sorcery  often  consists  of  poisoning,  which 
may  be  counteracted  by  a  priest  or  detected  by  a  diviner,  but  one 
of  the  hazards  of  dealing  with  the  spiritual  realm  is  that  sorcerers 
are  sometimes  disguised  as  priests  or  diviners.  A  person  may  use 
amulets  or  other  objects  to  ward  off  the  evil  effects  of  sorcery,  but 
these  are  sometimes  powerless  against  the  anger  of  an  ancestor. 

Collective  religious  ceremonies  are  important  to  the  life  of  many 
Akan  peoples.  The  most  important  of  these  is  the  yam  festival, 
which  serves  several  functions.  It  is  a  memorial  service  for  the  dead 
and  begs  for  their  protection  in  the  future;  it  is  a  time  of  thanks- 
giving for  good  harvests;  and  it  is  a  ritual  of  purification  that  helps 
rid  the  group  of  evil  influences.  It  also  provides  an  opportunity 
to  recall  the  discovery  of  the  yam — now  an  important  part  of  the 
diet  of  many  Akan  people — and  to  salute  the  Akan  chief  who,  it 
is  said,  risked  his  life  by  tasting  this  unknown  food  before  others 
in  his  chiefdom.  The  yam  festival  is  considered  vital  to  the  group's 
survival,  and  it  serves  important  social  functions — it  defines  the 
group,  symbolizes  its  unity,  and  reminds  people  of  their  obliga- 
tions to  others. 

Religion  among  the  Krou  peoples  of  the  southwest  resembles 
that  of  the  Akan,  with  an  important  difference  in  the  presence  of 
a  second  powerful  deity  alongside  the  creator.  This  second  god  is 
an  evil  deity  or  devil,  who  works  against  the  creator  god,  produc- 
ing a  duality  that  is  an  important  theme  in  Krou  culture.  All  individ- 
uals exhibit  a  balance  of  good  and  evil,  in  this  view,  and  maintaining 
this  balance  is  important  both  to  the  individual  and  to  the  entire 
universe. 

Religions  of  the  North 

Northern  religions  contain  the  notion  of  dual  deities  found  in 
the  southwest,  although  the  two  often  complement  rather  than  op- 
pose each  other.  Ancestral  spirits  are  especially  important  because 
it  is  believed  that  they  can  directly  influence  an  individual's  for- 
tunes in  this  life. 

The  cosmology  of  the  Mande  peoples  of  the  northwest  is  described 
in  their  myth  of  origin,  variants  of  which  are  retold  throughout 
the  region.  The  myth  recounts  God's  creation  of  the  universe  and 
of  four  sets  of  twins  from  seeds.  They  were  commanded  to  popu- 
late the  earth  and  teach  their  offspring  how  to  grow  crops.  They 
used  the  first  music  to  plead  for  rain,  and  the  Niger  River  was 
formed  from  the  resulting  series  of  floods.  Each  area  along  the  river 
is  associated  with  a  wild  animal  that  either  prevented  the  sowing 
of  seeds  or  protected  the  fields.  Features  of  the  river  and  surrounding 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


terrain  are  also  associated  with  activities  of  the  first  ancestors,  re- 
inforcing the  bond  between  the  group's  spiritual  existence  and  the 
land — a  bond  that  has  confused  foreign  missionaries,  government 
officials,  and  development  workers  in  recent  decades. 

In  Lobi  society  in  the  northeast,  divination  is  important  as  a 
means  of  determining  the  cause  of  death,  disease,  or  other  misfor- 
tune. Diviners  do  not  predict  the  future;  rather,  they  prescribe  a 
course  of  action  that  emphasizes  accepted  social  values  in  an  effort 
to  help  people  cope  with  present-day  dilemmas.  The  diviner's  role 
is  similar  to  that  of  a  counselor  or  confessor,  who  reminds  people 
of  the  need  to  maintain  proper  relationships  with  all  beings  and 
provides  them  with  a  new  perspective  on  relationships  that  have 
gone  wrong. 

Secret  societies  are  found  in  several  areas  of  northern  Cote 
dTvoire  (see  Voltaic  Cultures,  this  ch.).  They  serve  important  func- 
tions in  the  initiation  and  education  of  the  young,  and  they  pro- 
vide vehicles  for  preserving  beliefs  about  the  past.  Senior  members 
are  responsible  for  ritual  instruction  of  new  members  and  for  the 
observance  of  funerals  and  ceremonies  to  ensure  agricultural 
prosperity.  Blacksmiths  have  secret  societies  of  their  own,  and  in 
some  areas  this  occupational  group  is  believed  to  have  special 
spiritual  powers.  Medical  and  ritual  specialists  also  undergo  ap- 
prenticeships with  established  practitioners,  thereby  reinforcing  their 
status. 

World  Religions 

Islam 

Islam  is  a  monotheistic  religion  based  on  revelations  received 
in  seventh-century  Arabia  by  the  Prophet  Muhammad.  His  life 
is  recounted  as  the  early  history  of  the  religion,  beginning  with  his 
travels  from  the  Arabian  town  of  Mecca  about  610.  Muhammad 
preached  a  series  of  divine  revelations,  denouncing  the  polytheistic 
religions  of  his  homeland.  He  became  an  outcast  from  Mecca  and 
in  622  was  forced  to  flee  to  the  town  of  Yathrib,  which  became 
known  as  Medina  (the  city)  through  its  association  with  him.  The 
flight  (hijra)  marked  the  beginning  of  the  Islamic  Era  and  of  Islam 
as  a  powerful  force  in  history,  and  it  marked  the  year  622  as  the 
beginning  of  the  Islamic  calendar.  Muhammad  ultimately  defeated 
his  detractors  in  battle  and  consolidated  his  influence  as  both  tem- 
poral and  spiritual  leader  of  most  Arabs  before  his  death  in  632. 

After  Muhammad's  death,  his  followers  compiled  those  of  his 
words  that  were  regarded  as  coming  directly  from  God  in  the 
Quran,  the  holy  scripture  of  Islam.  Muhammad's  teachings  and 


69 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

the  precedents  of  his  behavior  as  recalled  by  those  who  knew  him 
became  the  hadith  (sayings).  From  these  sources,  the  faithful  con- 
structed the  Prophet's  customary  practice,  or  sunna,  which  they 
endeavor  to  emulate.  The  Quran,  hadith,  and  sunna  form  a  com- 
prehensive guide  to  the  spiritual,  ethical,  and  social  life  of  the  faithful 
in  most  Muslim  countries. 

Islam  came  to  West  Africa  in  three  waves.  In  the  ninth  century, 
Berber  traders  brought  the  faith  from  North  Africa  to  the  ancient 
empire  of  Ghana.  Beginning  in  the  thirteenth  century,  the  Malinke 
rulers  of  the  Mali  Empire  contributed  to  its  spread  throughout  much 
of  the  savanna,  a  process  that  continued  into  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury, when  the  Juula  established  a  Muslim  kingdom  in  what  is  now 
northern  Cote  d'lvoire.  Finally  in  the  nineteenth  century,  the 
Malinke  warrior  Samori  Toure  contributed  to  the  southward  spread 
of  Islam  (see  Pre-European  Period,  ch.  1). 

The  central  requirement  of  Islam  is  submission  to  the  will  of  God 
(Allah),  and,  accordingly,  a  Muslim  is  a  person  who  has  submit- 
ted his  will  to  God.  The  most  important  demonstration  of  faith 
is  the  shahadah  (profession  of  faith),  which  states  "There  is  no  God 
but  God  (Allah),  and  Muhammad  is  his  prophet."  Salat  (daily 
prayer),  zakat  (almsgiving),  sawm  (fasting),  and  hajj  (pilgrimage 
to  Mecca)  are  also  required. 

In  Cote  d'lvoire,  only  the  most  devout  Muslims  pray,  fast,  and 
give  alms  as  required  by  strict  tenets  of  Islam,  and  only  the  most 
wealthy  perform  the  hajj.  Most  Ivoirian  Muslims  are  Sunni,  fol- 
lowing the  Maliki  version  of  Islamic  law.  Sufism,  involving  the 
organization  of  mystical  brotherhoods  (tariqa)  for  the  purification 
and  spread  of  Islam,  is  also  widespread,  laced  with  indigenous  be- 
liefs and  practices.  The  four  major  Sufi  brotherhoods  are  all 
represented  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  although  the  Qadiriya,  founded  in 
the  eleventh  century,  and  the  Tidjaniya,  founded  in  the  eighteenth 
century,  are  most  popular.  The  Qadiriya  is  prevalent  in  the  west, 
and  the  Tidjaniya,  in  the  east.  The  other  two  major  Islamic  brother- 
hoods have  few  adherents  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  The  Senoussiya  is  iden- 
tified with  Libya,  where  its  influence  is  substantial.  The  Ahmadiya, 
a  Shiite  sect  originating  in  nineteenth-century  India,  is  the  only 
non-Sunni  order  in  Cote  d'lvoire. 

The  significant  religious  authority  is  the  marabout.  He  is  believed 
to  be  a  miracle  worker,  a  physician,  and  a  mystic,  who  exercises 
both  magical  and  moral  authority.  He  is  also  respected  as  a  dis- 
penser of  amulets,  which  protect  the  wearer — Muslim  or  non- 
Muslim — against  evil.  The  influence  of  marabouts  has  produced  a 
number  of  reactions  in  Ivoirian  society,  among  them  a  series  of 
reformist  movements  inspired  by  Wahabist  puritanism,  which 


70 


Mausoleum  in  eastern  Cote  d'lvoire 
Courtesy  Karen  Peterson 


originated  in  nineteenth-century  Saudi  Arabia.  These  reform  move- 
ments often  condemn  Sufism  and  marabouts  as  un-Islamic,  but  the 
poor  see  that  marabouts  often  speak  out  on  behalf  of  the  downtrod- 
den and  that  reform  movements  appear  to  support  the  interests 
of  wealthier  Muslims. 

Hamallism  began  as  an  Islamic  reform  movement  in  the  French 
Sudan  early  in  the  twentieth  century  and  has  provided  a  channel 
for  expressing  political  and  religious  discontent.  Its  founder,  Hamal- 
lah,  was  exiled  from  the  French  Sudan  to  Cote  d'lvoire  during  the 
1930s.  He  preached  Islamic  reform  tempered  by  tolerance  of  many 
local  practices,  but  he  condemned  many  aspects  of  Sufism.  Ortho- 
dox brotherhoods  were  able  to  convince  the  French  authorities  in 
Cote  d'lvoire  that  Hamallah  had  been  responsible  for  earlier  po- 
litical uprisings  in  the  French  Sudan.  Authorities  then  expelled 
Hamallah  from  Cote  d'lvoire  and  banned  his  teachings. 

The  relative  success  of  Islam  may  be  related  to  its  compatibility 
with  many  aspects  of  African  culture — for  example,  plural  mar- 
riage for  men,  which  was  opposed  by  Christian  missionaries.  None- 
theless, Islam  was  also  embraced  because  it  provided  symbolic 
identification  with  successful  traders  and  travelers  throughout  the 
world,  and  it  was  seen  as  an  alternative  to  European  religion.  Its 
agents  were  black,  and  it  preached  on  behalf  of  those  who  lacked 
the  trappings  of  Western  civilization.  In  the  1980s,  about  one-fourth 


71 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


of  all  Ivoirians,  including  most  Juula  and  Malinke  people,  called 
themselves  Muslims. 

Christianity 

Only  about  one-eighth  of  the  population  was  Christian  in  the 
1980s.  In  general,  Christianity  was  practiced  by  the  middle  class 
and  in  urban  centers  of  the  south.  It  was  most  prevalent  among 
the  Agni  and  lagoon  cultures  of  the  southeast,  least  so  among  the 
Mande  of  the  northwest.  Roman  Catholicism  was  the  largest  Chris- 
tian religion,  but  Methodist,  Baptist,  and  a  number  of  smaller  mis- 
sion churches  also  existed. 

Roman  Catholicism  made  a  brief  appearance  in  Cote  d'lvoire 
in  the  mid-seventeenth  century  and  reappeared  two  centuries  later 
when  French  missionaries  began  to  work  among  the  Agni.  The 
first  African  Roman  Catholic  mission  in  Cote  d'lvoire  was  estab- 
lished in  1895,  and  the  first  African  priest  was  ordained  in  1934. 
In  the  1980s,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  operated  seminaries  and 
schools  throughout  the  country.  Although  Cote  d'lvoire  is  officially 
a  secular  state,  the  president  expressed  pride  in  Abidjan's  large 
Roman  Catholic  cathedral  and  alone  funded  construction  of  a 
basilica  at  Yamoussoukro,  his  birthplace,  by  1990.  Some  villages 
have  also  adopted  patron  saints,  whom  they  honor  on  both  secu- 
lar and  religious  holidays. 

The  largest  Protestant  religion  as  of  the  mid-1980s  was  Harrism, 
begun  in  1914  by  William  Wade  Harris,  a  Liberian  preacher  who 
proselytized  along  the  coast  of  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Ghana.  Harris 
set  an  example  for  his  followers  by  leading  a  simple  life  and  es- 
chewing conspicuous  wealth.  He  condemned  the  use  of  amulets 
and  fetishes  as  idolatry,  and  he  preached  against  adultery,  theft, 
and  lying.  His  was  a  simple,  fairly  austere  form  of  Christianity, 
which  was  open  to  Roman  Catholics  and  Protestants  and  did  not 
preach  open  defiance  of  colonial  authority. 

In  1915  Harris  was  expelled  from  the  region  by  an  uneasy  colonial 
governor,  an  action  that  revitalized  his  church,  leaving  dozens  of 
small  "Harrist"  churches  along  the  coast.  A  decade  later,  Methodist 
missionaries  made  contact  with  Harris  and  attempted  to  continue 
his  work  among  the  lagoon  peoples.  Harris  succeeded  in  part  be- 
cause of  his  ethnic  background — he  was  African  but  not  Ivoirian — 
but  also  because  he  converted  women  as  well  as  men — a  practice 
that  had  been  scorned  by  earlier  Christian  missionaries  who  failed 
to  recognize  the  impact  of  matrilineal  descent  on  an  individual's 
spiritual  life.  Harrism  was  subsequently  recognized  as  a  branch 
of  Methodism. 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Syncretic  Religions 

Both  Islam  and  Christianity  have  been  adapted  to  indigenous 
religions  in  a  variety  of  ways.  Beyond  these  localized  versions  of 
world  religions,  however,  are  complex  systems  of  belief  and  prac- 
tice that  incorporate  many  elements  of  more  than  one  religion.  Most 
widely  recognized  among  these  syncretic  religions  are  numer- 
ous offshoots  of  Harrism  along  the  coast,  where  new  prophets, 
preachers,  and  disciples  blend  traditional  beliefs,  Harrism,  and 
modern-day  political  advice  to  help  deal  with  the  problems  of  every- 
day life. 

Syncretic  religions  are  generally  more  common  among  minori- 
ties in  a  particular  area  or  among  groups  that  perceive  themselves 
to  be  resisting  political  domination  by  their  neighbors.  The  Agni 
have  remained  heavily  Catholic,  for  example,  whereas  the  neigh- 
boring Baoule  have  evolved  a  variety  of  syncretisms,  following 
prophets  that  promise  good  fortune  as  a  reward  for  allegiance  to 
them.  Small  groups  in  the  far  northeast  have  also  evolved  a  vari- 
ety of  belief  systems  to  maintain  their  traditions,  incorporate  selected 
aspects  of  Islam,  and  resist  domination  by  outsiders. 

Social  Organization  and  Social  Change 

For  centuries  Cote  dT voire  has  been  the  scene  of  social  and  eco- 
nomic change  brought  about  by  cross-cultural  contact,  trans- 
Saharan  and  coastal  trade,  and  innovation  by  local  inhabitants. 
Established  patterns  of  change  were  dramatically  altered  by  the  im- 
position of  colonial  rule  and  the  transition  to  independence,  and 
by  the  1980s  patterns  of  social  and  cultural  change  reflected 
responses  to  these  disruptions  and  to  the  processes  and  policies  of 
government. 

The  colonial  imposition  of  plantation  agriculture  allowed  the 
emergence  of  the  first  nontraditional  African  elite,  when  those  who 
could  claim  rights  to  land  began  to  employ  farm  laborers  to  produce 
cash  crops  for  the  colonial  regime  (see  Economic  Development  and 
Social  Change,  ch.  1).  This  group  of  planters,  as  they  came  to  be 
known,  formed  the  core  of  the  earliest  Ivoirian  political  machine, 
which  continued  to  influence  the  course  of  change  in  the  1980s. 
Alongside  the  rural  elite,  a  fledgling  civil  servant  middle  class  also 
appeared  in  response  to  the  needs  of  the  bureaucracy,  as  new  levels 
of  political  awareness  and  activism  surfaced  throughout  the  region. 

The  African  Agricultural  Union  (Syndicat  Agricole  Africain — 
SAA),  formed  in  1944  as  a  union  of  planters,  led  the  opposi- 
tion to  colonial  agricultural  policies  (see  Brazzaville  Conference, 
ch.  1).  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny,  a  Baoule  elder  and  French- trained 


73 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


medical  doctor,  became  head  of  the  SAA  and  of  the  preindepen 
dence  movement,  the  Democratic  Party  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Part 
Democratique  de  Cote  d'lvoire — PDCI),  which  emerged  to  leac 
the  struggle.  The  PDCI  emphasized  participation  through  tradi- 
tional ethnic  group  leaders  and  ethnic  committees  (comites  ethniques). 
Ethnic  committees  helped  channel  grass-roots  participation  in  the 
political  process,  but  in  1985  they  were  replaced  by  local  commit- 
tees (comites  de  base). 

From  the  French  perspective,  those  who  had  gained  wealth  and 
prestige  by  exploiting  new  opportunities  in  the  changing  environ- 
ment were  considered  most  qualified  for  political  decision  making 
on  behalf  of  the  colony  (see  Evolution  of  Colonial  Policy,  ch.  1). 
Houphouet-Boigny  gained  a  multiethnic  constituency  as  leader  of 
the  PDCI  by  acting  as  a  broker  between  colonial  officials  and  emerg- 
ing African  elites,  and  especially  by  opposing  colonial  forced-labor 
policies.  During  the  1950s,  the  PDCI  gradually  adopted  a  strategy 
of  collaboration  with  colonial  officials,  a  strategy  Houphouet-Boigny 
pursued  successfully  enough  to  become  the  nation's  first  president 
at  independence  in  1960. 

Even  as  an  early  leader  in  the  preindependence  PDCI,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  had  defined  interest  groups  and  grievances  for  the  nation. 
In  1974,  after  a  decade  of  moderate  discontent  and  dissidence,  he 
convened  a  series  of  dialogues  that  served  the  dual  purpose  of  air- 
ing cross-ethnic  grievances  and  maintaining  the  president's  image 
as  a  traditional-style  leader,  using  the  analogy  of  the  African  "palaver' ' 
(palabre).  Teachers,  students,  former  students,  parents  of  students, 
tenants,  union  members,  union  leaders,  transporters,  the  military, 
and  the  party  youth  wing,  the  Movement  of  Ivoirian  Primary  and 
Secondary  School  Students  (Mouvement  des  Etudiants  et  Eleves  de 
Cote  d'lvoire — MEECI),  were  invited.  Excluded  were  representa- 
tives of  the  growing  number  of  unemployed  and  of  ethnic  groups, 
with  the  notable  exception  of  the  Lebanese  community. 

Economic  modernization  paralleled  political  and  social  change 
in  the  shift  from  colonial  to  African  power  arrangements.  Spurred 
by  the  opening  of  the  Vridi  Canal  to  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  in  1950 
and  the  concentration  of  government  functions  in  the  southeastern 
port  of  Abidjan,  population  migration  toward  the  south  increased, 
and  secondary  towns  developed  along  routes  to  Abidjan.  Moder- 
nization essentially  became  the  process  of  urbanization,  and  the 
distinction  between  urban  and  rural  came  to  symbolize  the  widening 
rift  between  rich  and  poor. 

Urban  Society 

Urban  ethnic  associations  performed  important  social  functions, 
from  the  initial  reception  of  new  migrants  to  the  burial  of  urban 


74 


The  basilica  Notre  Dame  of  Peace  at  Yamoussoukro 

Courtesy  Clair  Votaw 
Muslims  kneeling  in  prayer 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 


75 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


residents.  They  also  served  as  important  mutual  aid  networks  and 
facilitated  communication  with  home  villages.  Rapid  urbanization 
brought  together  people  from  numerous  ethnic  groups,  however, 
and  these  contacts  contributed  to  changing  values  and  produced 
demands  that  went  beyond  the  reach  of  traditional  leadership  roles. 
In  this  changing  environment,  ethnic  organizations  lost  influence 
as  cultural  and  economic  brokers.  Most  grievances  arose  in  response 
to  government  policy  choices,  and  because  these  policies  were  not 
phrased  in  terms  of  ethnic  groups,  neither  were  grievances  against 
them.  Neighborhood  and  city  wide  problems  demanded  broader 
solutions,  and  multiethnic  associations  emerged  as  important  in- 
terest groups. 

Ethnicity  was  further  diminished  as  a  factor  in  urban  politics 
as  foreigners  were  drawn  to  Cote  dTvoire's  lucrative  job  market 
and  as  Houphouet-Boigny  maintained  fairly  balanced  ethnic  rep- 
resentation among  political  appointments,  without  bringing  tradi- 
tional leaders  into  top  levels  of  administration.  He  encouraged  the 
most  ambitious  and  educated  young  men  from  different  regions 
to  participate  in  nation  building,  and  to  do  so  through  his  patronage. 

Houphouet-Boigny 's  patrimonial  style  of  governing  began  to 
shape  the  social  landscape,  as  the  political  skills  he  acquired  dur- 
ing the  waning  years  of  colonial  rule — his  expertise  as  a  strategist, 
his  nonconfrontational  manner  of  dealing  with  political  rivals,  and 
his  paternalistic  approach  to  allies — helped  consolidate  his  support. 
In  the  late  1980s,  he  continued  to  emulate  the  style  of  his  Baoule 
elders,  softening  strong  leadership  enough  to  maintain  broad  popu- 
lar support,  satisfying  crucial  popular  demands,  and  co-opting 
potential  opponents  (see  Political  Issues,  ch.  4). 

As  a  result  of  these  factors — the  urban  emphasis,  the  relative 
unimportance  of  ethnic  differences,  and  Houphouet-Boigny' s 
patrimonial  style  of  governing — a  self-perpetuating  elite  emerged. 
Social  relations  were  ordered  more  by  access  to  status,  prestige, 
and  wealth  than  by  ethnic  differences,  and  for  most  people  the  locus 
of  this  access  was  the  government.  Wealth  and  government  ser- 
vice became  so  closely  linked  that  one  was  taken  as  a  symbol  of 
the  other. 

Elites 

Access  to  land,  housing,  secondary  education,  jobs,  and  social 
services  determined  paths  of  opportunity  and  social  mobility  in 
Ivoirian  society,  where,  for  the  first  three  decades  after  indepen- 
dence, there  were  clear-cut  cleavages  between  a  ruling  elite  and 
people  who  lacked  privileged  access  to  resources.  This  self- 
reinforcing  system  allowed  a  wealthy,  urban,  privileged  minority 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  receive  most  of  the  benefits  available  to  the  society  as  a  whole. 
For  example,  most  urban  land  concessions  were  granted  to  people 
in  government  and  administration  and  to  their  relatives  and  clients. 
In  fact,  political  appointments  were  often  accompanied  by  land  con- 
cessions in  Abidjan,  and  many  Ivoirians  attributed  the  scarcity  of 
land  and  high  levels  of  rent  to  this  form  of  patronage. 

Urban  housing  was  also  a  fairly  good  measure  of  political  sta- 
tus. Cabinet  ministers  received  monthly  housing  allowances  and 
lived  in  relative  luxury.  Government  housing  policy  favored  con- 
struction of  expensive  quarters  for  upper-income  families.  Rents 
were  high  as  a  proportion  of  income  and  often  required  deposits 
of  several  months  or  years  rent  in  advance.  Building  a  private  home 
required  "good  standing"  within  the  community  in  order  to  meet 
credit  and  permit  restrictions. 

Secondary  education  was  also  an  important  urban  resource  and 
vehicle  of  social  mobility.  Although  primary  schools  were  found 
throughout  the  country,  secondary  schooling  was  primarily  an 
urban  activity,  channeling  graduates  into  urban  occupations  and 
contributing  to  the  rural  exodus.  A  large  proportion  of  pupils  who 
entered  primary  school  were  eliminated  at  crucial  points  in  the  edu- 
cation ladder,  especially  through  limits  on  secondary  school  and 
university  admissions,  but  many  also  dropped  out  throughout  the 
system.  In  general,  students'  educational  attainments  reflected  their 
parents'  level  of  education.  Even  when  the  government  achieves 
its  goal  of  universal  primary  education,  access  to  secondary  school- 
ing is  expected  to  remain  an  extremely  limited,  highly  valued 
resource. 

By  the  1980s,  employment  had  become  the  most  significant  indi- 
cator of  social  status.  High-level  government  employees  earned  sa- 
laries several  times  the  national  average,  and  public  sector  salaries 
generally  exceeded  those  in  the  private  sector,  although  this  situa- 
tion was  changing  in  the  late  1980s  as  the  government  succeeded 
in  freezing  civil  service  pay  scales.  Rural  wages  lagged  far  behind 
those  in  urban  areas,  where  the  number  of  unemployed  far  exceeded 
the  number  of  available  jobs.  In  a  circular  fashion,  those  who  were 
employed  had  an  edge  in  the  job  market  and  in  most  other  areas 
of  social  life.  Social  services  were  more  readily  available  to  those 
who  had  jobs  or  had  just  lost  them,  and  social  service  organiza- 
tions tended  to  be  located  in  wealthier  sections  of  town.  In  gen- 
eral, the  distribution  of  government  subsidies  helped  to  maintain 
the  distance  between  urban  elites  and  the  rural  and  urban  poor. 

The  Ivoirian  middle  class  was  still  a  small  minority,  primarily 
traders,  administrators,  teachers,  nurses,  artisans,  and  successful 
farmers.  The  middle  class  constituted  the  highest  social  stratum 


77 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


in  rural  areas  and  some  small  towns,  but  the  majority  of  small  farm- 
ers were  not  included,  nor  were  the  many  low- wage  earners  in  urban 
areas.  Middle-class  status  was,  in  Cote  d'lvoire  as  elsewhere, 
marked  by  continual  striving,  for  one's  self  and  one's  children,  to 
acquire  the  symbols  of  wealth.  In  cities,  opportunities  for  social 
mobility  were  limited  for  the  middle  class  and  the  poor,  who  con- 
tinued to  depend  on  the  patronage  of  the  elite  to  achieve  most  of 
their  goals. 

The  Role  of  Women 

Houphouet-Boigny's  political  style  and  longevity  shaped  Ivoirian 
elites  into  a  wealthy,  male,  educated  social  stratum.  By  the  late 
1980s,  women  were  beginning  to  emerge  within  this  group,  as  edu- 
cation and  acculturation  enabled  them  to  challenge  the  established 
order.  Official  attitudes  toward  the  status  of  women  were  prag- 
matic, like  most  official  attitudes  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Beliefs  about 
the  role  of  women  in  society  were  partly  the  result  of  ethnic  condi- 
tioning, however,  and  the  cultural  bias  against  equality  between 
the  sexes  was  embodied  in  customary  law,  where  ethnic  diversity 
and  cultural  conservatism  slowed  the  pace  of  modernization  of  regu- 
lations regarding  women. 

Role  expectations  for  women  changed,  however,  altered  by 
colonial  legislation,  which  liberated  captives  throughout  franco- 
phone Africa  in  1903,  and  then  by  the  Mandel  Decree  of  1939, 
which  fixed  the  minimum  age  of  marriage  at  fourteen  and  made 
mutual  consent  a  formal  necessity  for  marriage.  The  Jacquinot 
Decree  of  1951  invoked  the  power  of  the  state  to  protect  women 
from  claims  to  their  services — by  their  own  or  their  husband's 
family — after  marriage.  Moreover,  it  enabled  women  to  obtain  a 
divorce  more  easily  and  invalidated  in-laws'  claims  to  any  bride- 
price  that  had  been  paid  to  a  woman's  family  to  legitimize  the  mar- 
riage. This  decree  also  recognized  monogamy  as  the  only  legal  form 
of  marriage  and  allowed  couples  to  marry  without  parental  con- 
sent. These  changes  altered  popular  perceptions  of  marriage  and 
established  the  colonial  government  as  the  authority  on  most  aspects 
of  the  status  of  women. 

At  independence,  the  government  of  Houphouet-Boigny  ac- 
knowledged existing  decrees  affecting  the  status  of  women  and  went 
on  to  establish  the  primacy  of  the  nuclear  family,  raise  the  mini- 
mum age  for  marriage  to  eighteen,  and  condemn  in  general  terms 
the  notion  of  female  inferiority.  At  the  same  time,  however,  legis- 
lation during  the  1960s  established  a  husband's  right  to  control 
much  of  his  wife's  property,  and  it  required  a  woman  to  obtain 
her  husband's  permission  to  establish  a  bank  account  or  obtain  a 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


job.  The  government  also  placed  restrictions  on  a  woman's  right 
to  divorce,  denied  legal  recognition  of  matrilineal  rights  of  in- 
heritance (inheritance  by  a  man's  nephews  before  his  sons),  and 
finally,  condemned  the  practice  of  bride-price. 

In  1963  women  reacted  to  the  extent  and  direction  of  govern- 
ment control  by  forming  the  Association  of  Ivoirian  Women 
(Association  des  Femmes  Ivoiriennes — AFI).  They  also  persuaded 
the  president  to  establish  the  Ministry  of  Women's  Affairs 
(Ministere  de  la  Condition  Feminine)  in  1976  and  to  appoint  AFI 
leader  Jeanne  Gervais  as  minister.  Gervais's  goals  were  to  obtain 
better  educational  and  employment  opportunities  for  women  and 
to  establish  judicial  equality  for  women.  Legislation  was  enacted 
in  1983  to  allow  a  woman  to  control  some  of  her  property  after 
marriage  and  to  appeal  to  the  courts  for  redress  of  a  husband's 
actions. 

The  status  of  women,  in  practice  and  in  the  law,  was  still  well 
below  that  of  men  through  most  of  the  1980s,  but  educational  op- 
portunities for  women  were  improving  at  all  levels.  In  1987  about 
one-sixth  of  the  students  at  the  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire 
were  women,  and  the  number  of  women  in  the  salaried  work  force 
had  also  increased.  Women  made  up  almost  one-fourth  of  the  civil 
service  and  held  positions  previously  closed  to  them,  in  medicine, 
law,  business,  and  university  teaching. 

Social  Attitudes 

Despite  official  descriptions  of  their  society  as  "classless"  and 
egalitarian  in  the  1980s,  Ivoirian  citizens  were  acutely  aware  of 
the  distinction  between  the  rich  and  the  poor.  Peop^  perceived 
"temporary  distortions"  in  the  social  fabric — as  socia  inequities 
were  described  by  the  president — as  continuing  trends.  They  at- 
tributed these  distortions  to  a  variety  of  factors  but  rarely  to  the 
role  of  the  government  in  maintaining  and  subsidizing  the  elite. 
Regional  and  international  competition  in  commodity  markets  was 
cited  as  a  source  of  economic  recession  and  hardship  in  gf  leral. 
Within  Cote  d'lvoire,  regional  inequities  were  often  blamed  on 
mismanagement  by  presidential  advisers  but  not  on  the  president 
himself.  Cabinet  ministers,  in  particular,  were  often  blamed  for 
poor  policy  decisions  and  implementation  and  were  often  subjected 
to  invidious  comparisons  with  presidential  wisdom  and  imagination. 

Ivoirians  were  also  adept  at  generalizing  about  each  other  and 
about  immigrants  to  their  nation,  placing  blame  for  social  ills  on 
ethnic  groups  more  often  than  on  socioeconomic  forces.  The  Baoule, 
the  president's  own  constituency,  were  "too  dominant"  among 
high  officeholders,  in  their  critics'  view.  The  related,  and  rival, 


79 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Agni  often  expressed  anti-Baoule  sentiments,  while  the  Agni  them- 
selves, because  of  their  tradition  of  hierarchical  organization,  were 
criticized  for  elitist  attitudes  toward  other  ethnic  groups.  Groups 
that  avoided  centralization  among  indigenous  polities,  such  as  the 
Bete,  were  stereotyped,  in  turn,  as  "unsophisticated."  The  Lobi 
and  related  groups  from  the  northeast  were  similarly  stereotyped. 
Non-Africans,  even  those  born  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  were  blamed  for 
"draining  the  wealth  from  the  nation."  Within  the  foreign  work 
force,  Mossi  farm  laborers  were  looked  down  upon,  whereas  French 
white-collar  workers  were  both  despised  and  emulated.  These  and 
other  social  reactions  served  to  legitimize  popular  views  of  Ivoiri- 
an  society  and  to  confirm  ethnic  pride. 

At  the  same  time,  Ivoirian  society  was  permeated  with  a  sense 
of  apathy  about  social  development,  except  among  those  in  or  very 
close  to  political  office.  Even  those  who  acknowledged  the  nation's 
strengths  often  did  not  feel  like  active  participants  in  its  develop- 
ment. The  large  foreign  presence  within  the  economy,  the  en- 
trenched political  machine,  and  the  relatively  unchanging  living 
conditions  among  the  poor  contributed  to  this  sense  of  alienation 
from  the  overall  progress  that  has  marked  Cote  d'lvoire  since  in- 
dependence. 

Education 

The  Ivoirian  education  system  is  an  adaptation  of  the  French 
system,  which  was  introduced  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century 
to  train  clerks  and  interpreters  to  help  administer  the  colony.  The 
education  system  was  gradually  expanded  to  train  teachers,  farm- 
ers, and  artisans,  but  by  1940,  only  200  Africans  had  been  admit- 
ted to  primary  schools.  In  1945  the  nation  had  only  four  university 
graduates,  despite  an  official  policy,  described  as  "assimilationist," 
aimed  at  creating  a  political  elite  that  would  identify  with  France 
and  French  culture.  The  education  system  was  made  into  a  depart- 
ment of  the  French  national  system  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
minister  for  education  in  Paris  in  the  last  decade  of  colonial  rule, 
but  by  limiting  access  to  a  tiny  minority  of  Africans,  it  generally 
failed  to  supplant  Ivoirian  values  with  French  ones. 

Education  assumed  much  greater  importance  as  independence 
approached,  leading  some  village  elders  to  establish  and  support 
village  schools.  Primary- school  enrollments  increased  eightfold  dur- 
ing the  1950s;  secondary-school  enrollments  increased  ninefold. 
Schools  began  to  prepare  students  for  the  university,  and  scholar- 
ship programs  were  implemented  to  send  a  select  few  to  Europe 
or  to  Dakar,  Senegal,  for  further  study. 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


During  the  1980s,  education  was  an  important  national  priority; 
it  received  nearly  one-third  of  the  national  budget  in  1985.  Respon- 
sibility for  educational  development  lay  with  the  Ministry  of  Na- 
tional Education  and  Scientific  Research,  which  also  prescribed 
curricula,  textbooks,  and  teaching  methods;  prepared  qualifying 
examinations;  and  licensed  teachers,  administrators,  and  private 
educational  institutions. 

As  a  result  of  its  emphasis  on  education,  Cote  d'lvoire  boasted 
a  43  percent  literacy  rate  overall,  53  percent  for  men  and  31  per- 
cent for  women  in  1988.  About  15  percent  of  the  total  population 
was  enrolled  in  some  type  of  educational  institution,  but  enroll- 
ments were  still  much  higher  in  urban  than  rural  areas. 

The  Education  System 

The  education  system  comprised  three  stages:  primary  school 
lasted  six  years,  leading  to  a  certificate  of  primary  studies;  second- 
ary school  lasted  seven  years,  leading  to  a  certificate  or  baccalaureat 
(see  fig.  8).  University  education,  available  only  in  Abidjan,  cul- 
minated in  a  university  degree.  A  large  number  of  technical  and 
teacher-training  institutions  also  provided  postprimary  and  post- 
secondary  education.  There  was  no  system  of  adult  education, 
although  many  adults  attended  night  courses  or,  in  rural  areas, 
received  literacy  and  other  instruction  via  radio. 

Most  public  schools  were  tuition  free,  although  students  paid 
an  entrance  fee  and  bought  uniforms.  Most  supplies  were  free,  and 
some  students  received  government  scholarships,  usually  in  return 
for  a  period  of  government  employment  after  graduation. 

In  1980  approximately  14  percent  of  primary  schools  and  29  per- 
cent of  secondary  schools  were  private.  Most  of  these  were  Catholic, 
staffed  by  religious  and  lay  teachers,  with  salaries  partially  subsi- 
dized by  government  funding.  Catholic  schools  operated  primarily 
in  the  south  and  east  but  were  also  located  throughout  the  coun- 
try. Religious  instruction  was  not  permitted  in  government  schools. 
Quranic  schools  were  common  in  the  north  and  were  tolerated, 
but  not  supported,  by  the  government.  Some  students  attended 
both  public  and  Quranic  schools. 

The  school  year  was  divided  into  three  terms,  beginning  in  Sep- 
tember and  separated  by  short  Christmas  and  Easter  holidays  and 
a  two-month  summer  recess.  The  average  week  consisted  of  ap- 
proximately thirty  hours  of  classes,  Monday  through  Saturday 
morning.  Most  instruction  encouraged  mental  discipline  more  than 
analytical  thinking  or  creativity  by  emphasizing  rote  memoriza- 
tion and  oral  recitation. 


81 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


HE 

1  0 

GU 

HC 

EA 

RT 

GRANDES 

1 

ECOLES 

0 

N 

SPECIALIZED 

TRAINING 

INSTITUTIONS 

UNIVERSITY 


HIGHER 
TEACHER" 
TRAINING. 

SCHOOL 


School 
Year 
_6 


PRIMARY  SCHOOLS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Yearbook  of  Education,  32,  New  York,  1980, 
112-3. 


Figure  8.  Public  Education  System,  1988 

Primary  Education 

Approximately  1.5  million  pupils  attended  primary  school  in 
1987,  representing  about  75  percent  of  boys  and  50  percent  of  girls 
below  age  fifteen.  Primary- school  enrollments  increased  at  a  rate 
of  about  7.2  percent  per  year  from  1960  to  1980,  climbing  to  9.1 
percent  between  1976  and  1980.  This  rate  slowed  after  1980, 
averaging  4.2  percent  from  1981  to  1984  and  2.2  percent  after  1984. 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Children  entered  primary  school  at  the  age  of  seven  or  eight  and 
passed  through  six  grades,  divided  into  preparatory,  elementary, 
and  intermediate  levels.  In  the  first  six  months,  students  mastered 
French,  the  language  of  instruction.  Classes  in  reading,  writing, 
and  arithmetic  were  taught,  gradually  supplemented  by  history, 
geography,  natural  sciences,  music,  art,  and  physical  education. 
Rural  schools  also  required  students  to  work  in  school  gardens  and 
learn  basic  agricultural  methods.  Standard  school-leaving  exams 
led  to  the  certificate  of  elementary  education  (certificat  d' etudes 
primaires  elementaires — CEPE)  and  determined  entrance  to  secondary 
institutions. 

Secondary  Education 

About  250,000  students,  or  about  19  percent  of  primary-school 
graduates,  attended  government-funded  secondary  schools  in  1987. 
Most  of  those  preparing  for  university  attended  a  college  or  lycee, 
both  of  which  included  seven  years  of  study  divided  into  two  cycles. 
Significant  differences  between  these  two  institutions  almost  dis- 
appeared in  the  decades  following  their  introduction  by  the  French, 
but  the  lycee  was  generally  administered  by  the  national  govern- 
ment and  the  college  by  the  municipal  government  with  national 
funding. 

After  the  first  cycle  or  four  years  of  secondary  school,  students 
took  exams  and  were  awarded  the  certificate  of  the  lower  cycle  of 
secondary  study  (brevet  d' etude  du  premier  cycle — BEPC).  This  qualifi- 
cation generally  allowed  them  to  continue  at  the  college  or  lycee, 
enter  a  teacher-training  institution,  or  find  an  entry-level  job  in 
commerce  or  government.  After  the  second  cycle  of  three  years 
of  study,  graduates  earned  the  baccalaureat,  which  indicated  a  level 
of  learning  roughly  equivalent  to  one  or  two  years  of  university 
study  in  the  United  States.  In  Cote  dT voire,  as  in  France,  it  quali- 
fied a  student  for  university  entrance. 

Secondary-school  enrollments  grew  at  a  rate  of  about  1 1  per- 
cent per  year  from  1960  to  1984,  but  that  rate  has  declined  since 
1984.  The  dropout  rate  was  especially  high  for  girls,  who  made 
up  only  18  percent  of  the  student  body  during  the  last  two  years 
of  secondary  school.  An  average  of  one-fourth  of  all  secondary  stu- 
dents received  the  baccalaureat. 

Complementary  courses  were  the  most  common  type  of  alter- 
native secondary  education,  administered  as  four-year  programs 
to  improve  the  academic  education  of  those  who  did  not  qualify 
for  college  or  lycee.  Complementary  courses  were  established  dur- 
ing the  1950s,  when  expanding  educational  opportunities  was  a 
high  priority,  and  they  were  located  throughout  the  country  to 


83 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


compensate  for  the  urban  bias  in  secondary  education.  Comple- 
mentary courses  often  provided  a  combination  of  academic  and 
practical  training,  leading  to  an  elementary  certificate  (brevet  elemen- 
taire — BE)  or  the  BEPC,  and  enabled  some  students  to  enter  the 
second  cycle  at  a  college  or  lycee,  or  a  vocational  training  institution. 

Additional  secondary-level  courses  were  administered  by  reli- 
gious organizations,  most  often  the  Catholic  Church.  These  courses 
consisted  of  seven  years  of  study  divided  into  two  cycles,  with  a 
certificate  of  completion  awarded  after  each  cycle.  Teacher-training 
was  available,  often  as  an  alternative  to  academic  university  prepa- 
ration, at  a  variety  of  postprimary  levels.  Secondary-level  teacher 
training  could  lead  to  a  BE  certificate  and  admission  to  a  normal 
school  (ecole  normale),  which  might  also  be  attended  by  students  who 
left  lycees  or  colleges  after  the  first  four  years  of  study. 

Vocational  training,  attended  by  47,000  students  in  1982-83, 
was  available  at  a  variety  of  postprimary  institutions.  This  train- 
ing included  courses  in  agriculture,  engineering,  public  works, 
transportation  management,  secretarial  and  commercial  subjects, 
and  building  trades.  Graduates  often  worked  as  apprentices  or  pur- 
sued further  training  at  higher  technical  institutes. 

Higher  Education 

The  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  which  was  founded 
as  the  Center  for  Higher  Education  at  Abidjan  in  1959  and  be- 
came the  University  of  Abidjan  in  1964,  had  an  enrollment  of 
18,732  in  1987.  Of  this  number,  about  10,000  were  Ivoirians  and 
3,200  were  women.  Still  heavily  dependent  on  French  assistance, 
it  included  faculties  of  law,  sciences,  and  letters  and  schools  of 
agriculture,  public  works,  administration,  and  fine  arts.  Other  in- 
stitutions of  higher  learning,  known  as  grandes  ecoles,  awarded  cer- 
tificates of  training  in  specialized  fields  in  cooperation  with,  but  not 
as  part  of,  the  national  university. 

Teachers 

In  the  mid-1980s,  five  classes  of  teachers  were  distinguished  by 
their  educational  preparation  and  salary  level:  professors,  who 
taught  at  the  secondary  or  university  level;  assistant  professors  at 
the  secondary  level;  and  instituteurs ,  instituteurs-adjoints,  and  moni- 
tors at  the  primary  level.  Teachers'  salaries  were  generally  higher 
than  salaries  of  civil  servants  with  similar  qualifications  in  the 
mid-1980s,  although  many  people  still  left  teaching  for  more  lucra- 
tive professions.  The  government  responded  to  teacher  shortages 
with  a  variety  of  training  programs  and  short  courses  and  by  recruit- 
ing expatriates  to  teach  at  the  secondary  and  postsecondary  levels. 


84 


Administration  building,  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire 

Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 

Teachers  were  organized  into  a  number  of  unions,  most  of  them 
incorporated  into  the  government- controlled  central  union  federa- 
tion, the  General  Federation  of  Ivoirian  Workers  (Union  Gene- 
rale  des  Travailleurs  de  Cote  d'lvoire — UGTCI).  The  National 
Union  of  Secondary  School  Teachers  of  Cote  d'lvoire  and  two 
smaller  unions  remained  outside  the  UGTCI  and  were  outspoken 
in  their  criticism  of  government  educational  policies  and  educa- 
tional finances  in  particular.  Despite  this  tradition  of  criticism,  many 
government  officials  achieved  political  office  through  leadership 
positions  in  the  teachers  union  (See  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Problems  in  Education 

During  the  early  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  spent  a  higher  share  of 
its  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  and  of  its  national 
budget  on  education  than  any  other  country  in  the  world.  Although 
this  served  as  an  indication  of  the  nation's  high  regard  for  educa- 
tion, expatriate  teachers'  salaries  accounted  for  a  disproportion- 
ate share  of  current  expenditures,  reducing  the  benefits  to  the  nation 
itself.  Generous  scholarships  for  secondary- school  students  also 
reduced  funds  available  for  younger  children. 

The  Ministry  of  National  Education  and  Scientific  Research  as- 
signed highest  priority  to  problems  of  financing  educational  de- 
velopment and  reducing  the  number  of  school  dropouts.  Reducing 


85 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

regional  inequities  was  also  important;  in  1986  enrollments  in  the 
south  averaged  about  four  times  those  in  the  north.  The  govern- 
ment employed  innovative  methods  to  improve  the  education  sys- 
tem, including  the  use  of  televised  instruction  in  primary  schools 
in  the  1970s — a  project  that  was  abandoned  as  too  expensive.  Com- 
puters and  automated  data  processing  equipment  were  being  used 
at  the  National  University  in  1987  and  were  to  be  introduced  at 
lower  levels  of  the  educational  system  by  1990.  By  the  late  1980s, 
the  government  was  also  producing  its  own  textbooks,  previously 
purchased  in  France,  to  reflect  local  rather  than  foreign  cultural 
values. 

The  internal  efficiency  of  the  education  system  was  relatively  low, 
partly  because  of  the  large  number  of  students  who  repeated  courses 
and  the  high  dropout  level.  The  number  of  school-aged  children 
was  expected  to  grow  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  4.3  percent  by 
1995,  increasing  the  school-aged  population  by  50  percent.  Unfor- 
tunately, teacher- training  programs  could  not  keep  pace  with  these 
changes,  and  educational  planners  were  in  particular  demand.  The 
link  between  education  and  employment  was  also  weak,  exacer- 
bated by  the  economic  recession  of  the  1980s.  Graduates,  in  effect, 
expected  more  than  society  could  give  them.  As  in  many  countries, 
academic  institutions  and  personnel  often  annoy  government  offi- 
cials with  their  outspoken  criticism  of  national  policies  (see  Discon- 
tent on  Campus,  ch.  1).  A  number  of  mechanisms  are  used  to  co-opt 
or  intimidate  dissident  leaders,  although  a  few  of  their  criticisms 
have  been  received  favorably  and  have  produced  policy  changes. 
Some  outspoken  teachers  have  been  offered  government  jobs,  in  effect 
to  receive  the  brunt  of  criticism  they  have  generated.  Some  students 
have  been  expelled  from  the  university.  The  campus  was  closed  down 
following  antigovernment  demonstrations  in  1982,  and  campus  or- 
ganizations were  banned.  Secondary- school  teachers  who  protested 
against  the  elimination  of  their  housing  benefits  in  1983  found  their 
professional  organizations  banned  as  well. 

Health  and  Welfare 

Economic  progress  since  independence  outpaced  improvements 
in  the  general  health  status  of  the  population,  despite  substantial 
improvements  in  health  conditions.  As  in  other  areas,  nationwide 
statistics  mask  sharp  regional  and  socioeconomic  disparities.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  life  expectancies  ranged  from  fifty-six  years  in  Abidjan 
to  fifty  years  in  rural  areas  of  the  south  and  thirty-nine  years  in 
rural  areas  of  the  north.  The  resulting  overall  national  average  of 
fifty-one  years  represented  a  marked  improvement  over  that  of 
thirty-nine  in  1960. 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Infant  and  child  mortality  rates  remained  high  in  rural  areas, 
where  access  to  potable  water  and  waste  disposal  systems  was  limited 
and  housing  and  dietary  needs  often  remained  unmet.  An  estimated 
127  infants  per  1,000  births  died  in  their  first  year  of  life,  a  rate 
that  fell  steadily  from  1960  to  1985.  In  1987  one-half  of  all  deaths 
were  infants  and  children  under  the  age  of  five.  Infectious  diseases — 
primarily  malaria,  gastrointestinal  ailments,  respiratory  infections, 
measles,  and  tetanus — accounted  for  most  illness  and  death  in  chil- 
dren. Unsanitary  conditions  and  poor  maternal  health  also  con- 
tributed to  infant  deaths.  Close  spacing  of  births  contributed  to 
high  rates  of  malnutrition  in  the  first  two  years  of  life. 

In  1985  the  nation  had  a  generally  adequate  food  supply,  aver- 
aging 115  percent  of  the  minimum  daily  requirement,  but  seasonal 
and  regional  variations  and  socioeconomic  inequalities  contributed 
to  widespread  malnutrition  in  the  north,  in  poorer  sections  of  cities, 
and  among  immigrants. 

Public  health  expenditures  increased  steadily  during  the  1980s, 
but  the  health  care  system  was  nonetheless  unable  to  meet  the  health 
care  needs  of  the  majority  of  the  population.  Medical  care  for 
wealthy  urban  households  was  superior  to  that  available  to  rural 
farm  families,  and  the  health  care  system  retained  its  bias  toward 
curing  disease  rather  than  preventing  it.  Chronic  shortages  of  equip- 
ment, medicines,  and  health  care  personnel  also  contributed  to  over- 
all poor  service  delivery,  even  where  people  had  access  to  health 
care  facilities.  In  many  rural  areas,  health  care  remained  a  family 
matter,  under  the  guidance  of  lineage  elders  and  traditional  healers. 

Staffing  policies  in  the  health  sector  led  to  low  ratios  of  doctors 
to  patients  and  even  more  severe  shortages  of  nurses  and  auxiliary 
health  care  personnel  in  the  1980s.  In  1985  there  were  6.5  doctors 
per  100,000  people,  and  0.7  dentists,  10.9  midwives,  24.9  nurses, 
and  11.2  auxiliaries.  For  this  same  population,  158  hospital  beds 
were  available,  120  of  them  in  maternity  care  centers.  In  the  north- 
east, these  ratios  were  much  lower,  and  rural  areas  of  the  south- 
west also  received  less  attention  by  medical  planners. 

Maternal  Health  Care  (MHC)  centers  taught  classes  aimed  at 
reducing  maternal  and  infant  mortality.  The  World  Health  Or- 
ganization (WHO)  and  the  United  Nations  Children's  Emergency 
Fund  (UNICEF)  also  assisted  in  programs  to  vaccinate  children 
against  poliomyelitis,  diphtheria,  tetanus,  pertussis,  tuberculosis, 
yellow  fever,  and  measles,  and  to  vaccinate  pregnant  women  against 
tetanus. 

In  1987  the  government  began  to  implement  testing  programs 
for  antibodies  to  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV),  which 
causes  acquired  immunodeficiency  syndrome  (AIDS).  By  the  end 
of  that  year,  it  had  reports  of  250  AIDS  cases  nationwide,  most 


87 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

in  urban  areas.  Although  this  number  was  small  in  comparison 
with  many  nations  of  East  Africa  and  Central  Africa,  it  represented 
twice  the  number  of  reported  AIDS  cases  one  year  earlier  and  posed 
a  potentially  serious  health  threat.  The  government  neither  re- 
pressed reports  on  the  spread  of  HIV  nor  treated  them  lightiy.  With 
French  medical  and  financial  assistance,  and  in  collaboration  with 
WHO's  Special  Program  on  AIDS  (SPA),  it  began  to  implement 
blood  screening  programs  and  to  establish  public  information 
centers  to  meet  immediate  needs.  By  1988,  however,  no  medium- 
term  program  to  prevent  the  spread  of  HIV  was  in  place. 

The  Ministry  of  Public  Health  and  Population,  which  bore 
nationwide  responsibility  for  health  care  planning,  lacked  adequately 
trained  personnel  and  information  management  systems,  and  it 
shared  the  urban  bias  found  throughout  much  of  the  government 
in  the  1980s.  It  sought  private  sector  involvement  in  disease  preven- 
tion and  declared  the  improvement  of  health  care  standards  a  na- 
tional priority.  At  the  same  time,  historical,  ethnic,  socioeconomic, 
and  political  factors  contributing  to  the  nation's  health  problems 
continued  to  complicate  policy  making  at  the  national  level. 

Social  Programs 

Social  programs  generally  benefited  the  wealthy  more  than  the 
poor,  subsidizing  those  who  had  access  to  resources  and  an  under- 
standing of  public  services.  Public  housing,  a  high  priority  under 
successive  development  plans  since  1960,  was  an  example  of  this 
trend.  Most  available  public  housing  was  in  Abidjan.  It  was  gen- 
erally of  high  quality,  so  even  with  subsidized  rents,  it  was  beyond 
the  means  of  poorer  families.  The  result  was  government  assistance 
to  relatively  high- wage  earners. 

Some  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  programs  were  helping  redress 
this  imbalance  by  providing  funding  for  low-income  housing  and 
low-cost  transportation  programs.  World  Bank  assistance  in  housing 
in  the  late  1980s  was  also  aimed  at  providing  low-interest  loans 
to  enable  families  to  purchase  their  own  homes. 

Social  Problems 

Through  the  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  shared  the  concerns  over 
poverty,  unemployment,  and  crime  that  plagued  developing  and 
industrial  countries  alike.  Human  resource  management  was  com- 
plicated by  the  large  urban-rural  ratio,  however,  and  by  popula- 
tion growth  and  economic  recession.  The  cultural  expectation  of 
assistance  through  the  extended  family  helped  offset  problems  of 
unemployment,  but  high  mobility  within  the  work  force  resulted 
in  more  dispersed  families,  and  this  dispersal,  in  turn,  contributed 
to  rising  problems  of  poverty  and  unemployment. 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Poverty,  population  mobility,  and  ethnic  and  cultural  diversity 
contributed  to  rising  crime  rates  during  the  first  two  decades  of 
independence.  During  the  1980s,  white-collar  crime — embezzle- 
ment, fraud,  and  misappropriation  of  funds — rose  at  a  faster  rate, 
and  urban  crimes  such  as  robbery  and  theft  generated  widespread 
concern.  In  1987  the  president  declared  dishonesty  and  fraud  a  pub- 
lic disgrace  and  proclaimed  his  intention  to  wage  a  vigorous  war 
against  them.  Drug  abuse — primarily  involving  cocaine,  marijuana, 
and  heroin — was  also  declared  a  scourge  against  society,  but  the 
appropriate  public  response  to  these  problems  was  not  defined. 

*    *  * 

Ethnographic  background  reading  on  Akan,  Mande,  and  Voltaic 
societies  is  available  in  a  variety  of  works  by  Meyer  Fortes,  R.  S. 
Rattray,  Charles  Humana,  Elliott  Skinner,  Kenneth  Little,  Helga 
Diallo,  and  Germaine  Dieterlen.  Alexander  Alland,  Jr.' s  When  the 
Spider  Danced  presents  a  personal  account  of  ethnographic  research 
among  the  Abron  during  the  1960s. 

Michael  A.  Cohen's  Urban  Policy  and  Political  Conflict  in  Africa 
focuses  on  urbanization  and  formation  of  the  elite  in  the  1960s  and 
early  1970s.  Bastiaan  A.  den  Tuinder,  in  Ivory  Coast:  The  Challenge 
of  Success,  assesses  data  on  sectoral  progress  during  the  1970s.  Jeanne 
Maddox  Toungara's  "The  Changing  Status  of  Women  in  Cote 
d'lvoire"  summarizes  the  history  of  changes  in  legislation  regard- 
ing women  in  Ivoirian  society. 

Much  of  the  more  recent  literature  on  Cote  d'lvoire  describes 
the  role  of  the  president  in  crafting  this  complex  nation- state  and 
controlling  the  direction  of  social  and  political  change.  The  years 
leading  up  to  independence  and  the  context  of  the  evolution  of  the 
president's  status  as  "Le  Vieux"  are  analyzed  in  Aristide  Zolberg's 
One-Party  Government  in  the  Ivory  Coast.  Claude  E.  Welch,  Jr.,  in  "Cote 
d'lvoire:  Personal  Rule  and  Civilian  Control,"  assesses  the  presi- 
dent's role  in  maintaining  the  region's  only  long-standing  civilian 
government. 

Robert  J.  Mundt's  Historical  Dictionary  of  the  Ivory  Coast  compiles 
a  wide  range  of  historical,  political,  and  sociological  data,  presented 
in  concise  entries  with  an  extensive  bibliography.  Philippe  David's 
La  Cote  dTvoire  presents  an  overview  of  Ivoirian  society,  including 
historical,  economic,  and  sociological  background  reading.  (For 
further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


89 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Brass  weights,  container,  and  spoon  for  carrying  and  measuring  gold  dust 


SINCE  ACHIEVING  INDEPENDENCE  from  France  in  1960, 
Cote  d'lvoire's  primary  economic  objective  has  been  growth.  Dur- 
ing the  1960s,  growth  was  accomplished  by  expanding  and  diver- 
sifying agricultural  production,  improving  infrastructure,  and 
developing  import  substitution  industries.  Implicit  in  this  strategy 
was  the  emergence  of  an  expanding  domestic  market  to  support 
budding  consumer  goods  industries.  Income  redistribution  and 
Ivoirianization  (replacement  of  expatriates  with  Ivoirian  workers) 
were  made  subordinate  to  growth.  Although  these  goals  were  po- 
litically desirable,  redistribution  and  Ivoirianization  would  be  im- 
possible without  growth,  according  to  policymakers.  Using  revenues 
generated  from  agricultural  exports,  the  government  financed  im- 
provements to  infrastructure — roads,  ports,  railroads,  power  gener- 
ation, and  schools.  To  finance  increased  agricultural  production 
and  industrial  development,  the  government  turned  to  foreign  in- 
vestment and  imported  technology.  Much  of  the  manual  labor  was 
supplied  by  non-Ivoirian  Africans. 

Paramount  in  this  planning  was  the  maintenance  of  economic  links 
to  France  that  were  almost  as  extensive  as  the  preindependence  ties. 
Before  independence,  French  public  and  private  capital  helped  to 
support  the  government,  ensured  the  internal  and  external  conver- 
tibility of  the  currency,  financed  most  major  commercial  enterprises, 
and  supported  the  country's  banking  and  credit  structure.  French 
enterprises  in  Cote  d'lvoire  were  a  major  employer  of  Ivoirian  labor, 
and  France  purchased — often  at  rates  higher  than  market  value — 
most  of  the  country's  exports.  In  addition,  French  managers  held 
most  of  the  key  positions  in  business,  and  French  adviser?  occupied 
important  posts  in  many  government  ministries. 

Cote  d'lvoire's  ties  to  France  grew  even  stronger  after  indepen- 
dence. Between  1960  and  1980,  the  total  French  population  in  Cote 
d'lvoire  nearly  doubled,  from  about  30,000  to  close  to  60,000,  form- 
ing the  largest  French  expatriate  community.  In  the  mid-1980s, 
four  out  of  five  resident  French  had  lived  in  Cote  d'lvoire  for  more 
than  five  years.  French  citizens  filled  technical  and  advisory  posi- 
tions in  the  government  (albeit  in  diminishing  numbers)  and  were 
also  evident  throughout  the  private  sector.  Until  1985  Cote  d'lvoire 
also  had  the  highest  number  of  French-controlled  multinational 
businesses  in  all  of  Africa,  had  the  largest  percentage  of  French 
imports  to  and  exports  from  Africa,  and,  along  with  Senegal,  re- 
ceived the  largest  French  aid  package  in  Africa. 


93 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Economic  development  in  Cote  d'lvoire  has  passed  through  three 
phases.  During  the  first  phase,  from  1965  to  1975,  the  economy 
grew  at  a  remarkable  pace  as  coffee,  cocoa,  and  timber  exports 
increased.  Surpluses  from  exports  speeded  growth  in  the  secon- 
dary (industrial)  and  tertiary  (services,  administration,  and  defense) 
sectors.  Gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  grew  at  an 
average  annual  rate  of  7.9  percent  in  real  terms,  well  ahead  of  the 
average  annual  population  growth  rate  of  approximately  4  per- 
cent. 

During  the  second  phase,  from  1976  to  1980,  external  changes 
in  the  world  economic  system  reverberated  within  Cote  d'lvoire. 
Coffee  and  cocoa  prices  peaked  in  the  1976-77  period  as  a  result 
of  poor  harvests  in  Latin  America,  but  two  years  later  prices 
declined  rapidly.  GDP  continued  to  grow  at  an  average  rate  of  7.6 
percent  per  year;  within  the  period,  however,  the  growth  rate  varied 
from  2  percent  in  1979  to  11.5  percent  one  year  later.  The  govern- 
ment, which  had  responded  to  the  boom  phase  by  vigorously  ex- 
panding public  investment,  was  by  1979  forced  to  rely  on  foreign 
borrowing  to  sustain  growth.  At  the  same  time,  the  declining  value 
of  the  United  States  dollar,  the  currency  in  which  Cote  d'lvoire's 
loans  were  denominated,  and  rising  prices  for  imported  oil  adversely 
affected  the  country's  current  accounts  balance.  By  the  end  of  the 
second  phase,  Cote  d'lvoire  was  at  the  brink  of  a  financial  crisis. 

During  the  third  phase,  from  1981  to  1987,  the  economy  deteri- 
orated as  terms  of  trade  declined,  interest  rates  increased,  the 
prospects  of  new  offshore  oil  development  evaporated,  and  agricul- 
tural earnings  dropped.  Following  a  record  1985-86  cocoa  harvest, 
the  economy  rebounded  briefly;  however,  falling  cocoa  prices 
quickly  eroded  any  gains  the  country  had  hoped  to  achieve,  and 
by  1987  President  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny  had  halted  further  pay- 
ments on  foreign  debt.  Subsequently,  Cote  d'lvoire  was  forced  to 
adopt  a  structural  adjustment  program  mandated  by  the  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  that  limited  imports, 
subsidized  exports,  and  reduced  government  spending. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

By  the  end  of  the  first  decade  of  independence,  the  government's 
strategy  for  economic  growth  and  development  appeared  remark- 
ably successful  (see  table  2,  Appendix).  Agricultural  output  of  cash 
crops  expanded,  and,  as  evidence  of  diversification,  the  relative 
importance  of  unprocessed  coffee,  cocoa,  and  timber  diminished 
as  that  of  bananas,  cotton,  rubber,  palm  oil,  and  sugar  grew.  Using 
revenues  from  commodity  sales,  the  government  upgraded  roads, 
improved  communications,  and  raised  the  educational  level  of 


94 


The  Economy 


the  work  force.  Local  factories  were  replacing  some  imports  by 
producing  a  wide  variety  of  light  consumer  goods. 

During  the  1970s,  the  government's  economic  objective  of  growth 
remained  unchanged.  Agriculture — coffee  and  cocoa  in  particular — 
remained  the  mainstay  of  the  export  economy  and  the  largest  com- 
ponent of  GDP  until  it  was  overtaken  by  the  service  sector  in  1978. 
But  while  agriculture  provided  about  75  percent  of  export  earn- 
ings in  1965,  that  total  had  shrunk  by  20  percent  by  1975.  Between 
1965  and  1975,  agriculture's  share  of  GDP  also  declined  by  almost 
20  percent.  Industrial  GDP,  derived  primarily  from  import  sub- 
stitution manufacturing  and  agricultural  processing,  increased  by 
275  percent  from  1970  to  1975,  while  industry's  share  of  export 
earnings  increased  from  20  percent  in  1965  to  35  percent  in  1975. 
The  fastest-growing  sector  of  the  economy  was  services,  which  as 
a  share  of  GDP  increased  by  more  than  325  percent  from  1965 
to  1975. 

At  the  same  time,  problems  that  arose  during  the  previous  de- 
cade required  adjustments.  To  reduce  production  costs  of  manufac- 
tured goods,  the  government  encouraged  local  production  of 
intermediate  inputs,  such  as  chemicals  and  textiles.  The  govern- 
ment also  shifted  some  public  investment  from  infrastructure  to 
crop  diversification  and  agricultural  processing  industries  to  im- 
prove export  earnings.  Meanwhile,  work  on  such  major  projects 
as  the  Buyo  hydroelectric  generating  station  continued.  Foreign 
donors,  attracted  by  Cote  d T voire 's  stable  political  climate  and 
profitable  investment  opportunities,  provided  capital  for  these  en- 
deavors. Until  1979,  when  coffee  and  cocoa  prices  plummeted  and 
the  cost  of  petroleum  products  rose  sharply  a  second  time,  virtually 
every  economic  indicator  was  favorable. 

Over  the  same  twenty  years,  however,  structural  contradictions 
in  Cote  d'lvoire's  economic  strategy  became  apparent  and  presaged 
the  serious  problems  that  became  manifest  in  the  1980s.  First,  the 
emergence  of  a  domestic  market  large  enough  to  allow  manufac- 
turers of  import  substitutes  to  benefit  from  economies  of  scale  re- 
quired a  wage  for  agricultural  workers — the  largest  segment  of  the 
labor  force — that  was  high  enough  to  support  mass  consumption. 
But  because  the  government  relied  on  agricultural  exports  to  finance 
improvements  to  infrastructure,  commodity  prices  and  wages  could 
not  be  allowed  to  rise  too  high.  Second,  the  government's  focus 
on  import  substitution  increased  demand  for  intermediate  inputs, 
the  cost  of  which  often  exceeded  that  of  the  previously  imported 
consumer  goods.  Moreover,  Cote  d'lvoire's  liberal  investment  code 
encouraged  capital-intensive  rather  than  labor-intensive  industrial 
development.  Consequently,  industrial  growth  contributed  little 


95 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  growth  of  an  industrial  labor  force  or  a  domestic  market, 
and  prices  for  consumer  goods  remained  high,  reflecting  the  high 
costs  of  production  and  protection.  The  investment  code  also  per- 
mitted vast  funds  to  leave  Cote  d'lvoire  in  the  form  of  tax-free 
profits,  salary  remittances,  and  repatriated  capital.  Decapitali- 
zation,  or  the  outflow  of  capital,  led  to  balance  of  payments 
problems  and  the  need  to  export  more  commodities  and  limit 
agricultural  wages.  (As  a  result,  the  domestic  market  remained 
small,  and  consumer  goods  remained  expensive.)  By  the  start  of 
the  1980s,  as  surpluses  from  commodity  sales  dwindled,  the  govern- 
ment continued  to  depend  on  foreign  borrowing  to  stimulate  the 
economy.  Inexorably,  the  external  debt  and  the  burden  of  debt 
service  grew. 

In  the  1980s,  a  combination  of  drought,  low  commodity  prices, 
and  rapidly  rising  debt  costs  exacerbated  the  structural  weakness 
of  the  Ivoirian  economy.  Between  1977  and  1981,  both  cocoa  and 
coffee  prices  fell  on  world  markets,  the  current  accounts  balance 
dropped  precipitously,  and  debt  servicing  costs  rose,  compelling 
the  government  to  implement  stabilization  policies  imposed  by  the 
IMF  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  The  economy  sagged  even  more  when 
a  drought  during  the  1983-84  growing  season  cut  agricultural  and 
hydroelectric  output  at  the  same  time  that  rising  interest  rates  on 
international  markets  increased  the  debt  burden.  No  sector  of  the 
economy  was  untouched.  Between  1981  and  1984,  GDP  from  in- 
dustry dropped  by  33  percent,  GDP  from  services  dropped  by  9 
percent,  and  GDP  from  agriculture  dropped  by  12.2  percent. 

Between  1984  and  1986,  a  surge  in  commodity  prices  and  out- 
put, coupled  with  increased  support  from  Western  financial  insti- 
tutions, provided  a  momentary  economic  boost.  The  record  1985 
cocoa  crop  of  580,000  tons,  combined  with  improved  prices  for 
coffee  and  cotton,  bolstered  export  earnings  and  confidence  in  the 
economy.  Following  both  the  1984-85  and  the  1985-86  growing 
seasons,  the  government  again  increased  producer  prices  for  cocoa 
and  coffee,  resumed  hiring  civil  servants,  and  raised  some  sala- 
ries, all  of  which  led  to  a  rise  in  consumption.  Food  production 
also  increased  during  this  period,  allowing  food  imports  to  drop. 
Similarly,  a  reduction  in  the  cost  of  oil  imports  helped  the  country 
to  attain  a  large  commercial  surplus  by  the  end  of  1986,  thus  con- 
siderably easing  the  balance  of  payments  difficulties  experienced 
earlier  in  the  decade.  These  factors,  combined  with  the  reschedul- 
ing of  foreign  debt  payments,  gave  the  government  some  flexibil- 
ity in  handling  its  debt  crisis  and  allowed  it  to  begin  paying  its 
arrears  to  domestic  creditors,  including  major  construction  and  pub- 
lic works  firms,  supply  companies,  and  local  banks. 


96 


Market  at  Treichville,  in  Abidjan 
Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 

The  economic  resurgence  turned  out  to  be  short  lived,  however. 
In  1987  the  economy  again  declined.  Compared  with  the  first  six 
months  of  the  previous  year,  sales  of  raw  cocoa  fell  by  33  percent, 
and  coffee  exports  plummeted  by  62  percent.  GDP  declined  by  5.8 
per  cent  in  real  terms,  reflecting  the  slide  in  local  currency  earn- 
ings from  exports.  The  trade  surplus  fell  by  49  percent,  plunging 
the  current  account  into  deficit.  Trade  figures  for  the  first  half  of 
1987  revealed  a  35  percent  drop  in  the  value  of  exports  in  compar- 
ison with  the  same  period  in  1986. 

In  May  1987,  the  government  suspended  payments  on  its  mas- 
sive foreign  debt  and  appealed  to  official  government  lenders 
(the  Paris  Club — see  Glossary)  and  commercial  lenders  (the 
London  Club — see  Glossary)  to  reschedule  debt  payments.  The 
Paris  Club  acceded  in  December  1987;  the  London  Club,  in  March 
1988. 

As  negotiations  were  proceeding,  lenders  pressured  the  govern- 
ment to  introduce  fiscal  reforms.  In  January  1988,  the  government 
implemented  a  series  of  revenue-raising  measures,  which  extended 
the  value-added  tax  to  the  wholesale  and  retail  trades  and  increased 
import  tariffs,  stamp  duties,  and  tobacco  taxes.  In  addition,  the 
government  initiated  programs  to  privatize  most  state  enterprises 
and  parastatals  (companies  under  joint  government  and  private 
ownership)  and  to  give  a  "new  orientation"  to  industry. 


97 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Privatization  was  not  a  new  measure.  In  1980  the  state  made 
divestment  an  official  policy  and  offered  for  sale  many  state  cor- 
porations and  the  state's  shares  in  jointly  owned  enterprises.  Be- 
cause the  response  to  divestment  was  sluggish,  the  government 
proposed  innovative  alternatives  to  outright  denationalization,  such 
as  leasing  arrangements  and  self-managing  cooperatives.  By  1987, 
however,  only  twenty-eight  of  the  targeted  enterprises  (in  agribus- 
iness, trading  and  distribution,  public  works,  and  tourism)  had  been 
sold.  Moreover,  the  state  still  accounted  for  55  percent  of  direct 
investment  in  the  country. 

The  structural  adjustments  required  by  the  World  Bank  (see 
Glossary)  in  1987  gave  a  new  impetus  to  the  divestment  process. 
The  government  placed  103  industries  in  which  it  had  holdings 
up  for  sale,  although  several  companies  considered  to  be  of  stra- 
tegic importance  to  the  country  were  later  taken  off  the  market. 
Included  in  this  category  were  the  Commodity  Marketing  and  Price 
Control  Board  (Caisse  de  Stabilisation  et  de  Soutien  des  Prix  de 
Production  Agricole — CSSPPA),  the  Petroleum  Operations  Com- 
pany of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Petrole  de  Cote  d'lvoire— PETROCI),  the 
Ivoirian  Maritime  Transport  Company  (Societe  Ivoirienne  de 
Transport  Maritime — SITRAM),  and  the  Ivoirian  Mining  Com- 
pany (Societe  pour  le  Developpement  Minier  de  Cote  d'lvoire — 
SODEMI). 

Divestment  was  a  mixed  success  at  best.  Although  Ivoirians  took 
over  more  than  half  of  the  companies,  those  enterprises  in  which 
Ivoirians  held  a  majority  of  the  capital  were  very  small — three- 
quarters  were  capitalized  at  less  than  CFA  F50  million  (for  value 
of  the  CFA  F — see  Glossary) — and  their  rate  of  return  was  sub- 
stantially lower  than  that  of  foreign-owned  and  state  enterprises. 
In  general,  the  larger  the  capital  of  an  enterprise,  the  smaller  the 
proportion  owned  by  Ivoirians. 

Role  of  Government 

In  spite  of  its  reputation  for  having  liberal,  noninterventionist 
economic  policies,  the  Ivoirian  government  played  a  pivotal  role 
in  the  domestic  economy.  Acting  primarily  through  the  Ministry 
of  Planning  and  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  the  government  directed 
fiscal  and  monetary  strategies  over  the  long  term  and  intervened 
in  the  short  term  in  response  to  changing  market  conditions.  The 
Ministry  of  Planning  was  responsible  for  coordinating  long-term 
development  projects,  while  the  Ministry  of  Finance  was  respon- 
sible for  financing  annual  investment.  The  technical  ministries,  such 
as  the  Ministry  of  Mining,  the  Ministry  of  Trade,  and  the  Minis- 
try of  Industry,  were  responsible  for  preparing  and  implementing 


98 


The  Economy 


projects.  The  Ministry  of  Planning  played  the  central  role.  It  medi- 
ated between  the  technical  ministries  and  the  public  enterprises  on 
the  one  hand  and  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  the  government  (in 
its  role  as  the  formulator  of  economic  objectives)  on  the  other  hand. 
The  Ministry  of  Finance  translated  the  government's  policy  ob- 
jectives into  a  set  of  long-term  output  and  investment  targets  and 
an  aggregate  investment  package.  The  Ministry  of  Planning  and 
the  technical  ministries  then  used  the  guidelines  to  undertake  those 
projects  that  were  deemed  feasible  and  would  most  contribute  to 
achieving  the  plan's  output  and  investment  targets. 

Beginning  in  1960,  the  Ministry  of  Planning  prepared  a  series 
of  ten-year  projections.  Subsequendy,  these  were  replaced  by  a  ser- 
ies of  five-year  plans  that  had  built  into  them  a  three-year  "roll- 
ing" program  called  the  Loi-Programme.  The  five-year  plans 
formulated  the  overall  objectives,  set  priorities,  and  provided  a 
macroeconomic  framework  for  the  country's  development.  The 
three-year  overlapping  Lois-Programmes  examined  individual 
projects,  taking  into  account  progress  toward  implementation,  an- 
nual changes  in  costs,  and  political  impact. 

Public  Investment 

In  addition  to  its  planning  role,  the  government  was  the  largest 
single  investor  in  the  economy.  Following  independence,  the  gov- 
ernment embarked  on  an  ambitious  capital  spending  program. 
Much  of  the  capital  for  government  intervention  came  from  the 
CSSPPA,  which  fixed  producer  prices,  operated  a  reserve  price 
stabilization  fund,  and  extracted  profits  for  the  state.  Much  of  this 
investment  went  toward  developing  infrastructure  and  was  one  of 
the  state's  more  positive  economic  contributions  in  the  1960s. 

By  the  1970s,  although  there  was  no  official  change  of  economic 
policy,  the  state  intervened  more  directly  in  the  economy,  primar- 
ily through  the  creation  of  parastatals.  This  surge  in  the  number 
of  parastatals  reflected  the  government's  desire  to  stimulate  growth 
in  those  areas  where  the  private  sector  was  considered  insufficiently 
active,  to  create  employment  for  Ivoirians,  and  to  encourage  Ivoiri- 
ans  to  invest  locally.  In  the  case  of  agricultural  parastatals,  the  state 
wanted  to  lessen  income  disparities  between  the  north  and  the  south, 
decrease  food  imports,  provide  rural  employment,  and  diminish 
the  importance  of  foreign  investment  in  agriculture.  In  some  in- 
stances, social  or  political  objectives  superseded  the  profit  motive, 
as  appears  to  have  been  the  case  with  parastatals  like  the  Bandama 
Valley  Authority  (Autorite  de  la  Vallee  du  Bandama — AVB),  which 
promoted  regional  development,  and  the  Sugar  Development  Com- 
pany (Societe  de  Developpement  Sucrier — SODESUCRE),  which 


99 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

was  also  responsible  for  creating  jobs  and  building  schools  and  med- 
ical clinics  in  the  savanna  region. 

All  of  the  parastatals  enjoyed  relative  financial  autonomy, 
although  their  technical  and  financial  operations  were  in  theory 
supervised  by  the  government.  In  fact,  there  was  often  little  super- 
vision by,  or  coordination  of  activities  with,  other  government  agen- 
cies, perhaps  reflecting  the  fact  that  top-level  managers  of  some 
parastatals  were  often  politically  well  connected.  In  many  instances, 
the  parastatals  withheld  or  otherwise  could  not  produce  crucial 
financial  data  for  planners.  Given  the  absence  of  governmental  over- 
sight and  the  sometimes  vague  social  and  political  objectives  of  the 
parastatals,  they  performed  badly  and  in  some  cases — notably  the 
housing  sector — were  rife  with  fraud. 

In  spite  of  these  shortcomings — or  perhaps  because  of  them — 
the  government  support  of  parastatals  steadily  increased.  By  1974 
it  amounted  to  more  than  half  of  the  entire  investment  budget.  Over 
the  same  fourteen  years,  the  proportion  of  investment  spending 
covered  by  net  public  savings  fell  to  37  percent.  This  imbalance 
forced  the  government  to  borrow  extensively  from  foreign  sources 
to  maintain  an  even  level  of  investment  and  growth.  Between  1965 
and  1975,  foreign  loans  rose  from  41  percent  to  65  percent  of  in- 
vestment in  parastatals.  Moreover,  the  outstanding  debt  figures 
of  the  public  enterprises  and  the  amount  of  foreign  borrowing, 
which  in  theory  should  have  been  cleared  by  the  National  Amorti- 
zation Fund  (Caisse  Autonome  d'Amortissement — CAA),  were  not 
disclosed  until  an  end-of-year  report.  This  process  effectively 
precluded  government  attempts  to  control  parastatal  finances. 

Budget 

Public  spending  was  handled  under  two  different  budgets:  the 
Ordinary  Budget  (Budget  Ordinaire)  for  current  government 
expenditures,  which  were  generally  covered  by  domestic  revenues, 
and  the  Special  Investment  and  Capital  Equipment  Budget  (Budget 
Special  dTnvestissement  et  d'Equipement — BSIE),  which  partly 
depended  on  foreign  investment.  The  BSIE  had  two  parts:  the 
BSIE-Treasury  (BSIE-Tresor  or  BSIE-T),  which  was  financed  by 
surpluses  from  the  Ordinary  Budget,  levies  on  business  profits  and 
farm  incomes,  and  borrowing  through  bonds  issued  by  the  CAA; 
and  the  BSIE-CAA,  which  was  funded  by  foreign  borrowing. 

The  size  of  each  budget  reflected  the  state  of  the  economy.  The 
Ordinary  Budget  grew  by  an  average  of  more  than  20  percent  from 
1976  to  1980  and  then  by  an  average  of  about  11  percent  per 
year  in  1980,  1981,  and  1982.  By  1983,  however,  the  deteriorat- 
ing economy  and  consequent  decline  in  tax  receipts  prompted  the 


100 


Hotel  at  Abidjan 
Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 


government  to  implement  a  series  of  austerity  measures.  Cuts  were 
initially  limited  to  the  BSIE,  which  fell  from  CFA  F277.6  billion 
in  1980  to  CFA  F239.1  billion  in  1984  and  then  fell  dramatically 
to  101.8  billion  in  1985.  In  1984  the  government  cut  the  Ordinary 
Budget  for  the  first  time,  by  1.5  percent  from  the  previous  year. 
The  government  reduced  the  number  of  foreign  technical  assis- 
tants, froze  civil  service  salaries,  and  sold  one-quarter  of  the  offi- 
cial fleet  of  12,000  automobiles. 

In  1986,  after  three  years  of  severe  austerity,  higher  commodity 
prices  increased  revenues  and,  in  turn,  allowed  both  budgets  to 
expand.  Budgeted  expenses  rose  by  8.6  percent,  with  most  of  the 
increase  in  the  BSIE,  where  allocations  were  increased  by  13.7  per- 
cent. More  than  a  third  of  these  allocations  went  toward  a  road 
building  plan  cofinanced  by  the  World  Bank.  Agricultural  diver- 
sification was  the  second  largest  beneficiary.  A  3.7  percent  increase 
in  the  Ordinary  Budget  again  permitted  civil  service  promotions 
following  a  protracted  wage  and  hiring  freeze. 

The  period  of  budgetary  expansion,  however,  was  brief.  In  1987 
coffee  and  cocoa  prices  again  dropped,  resulting  in  a  5.2  percent 
cut  in  the  1987  BSIE  and  an  additional  19.8  percent  cut  in  the  1988 
BSIE.  For  the  second  year  in  a  row,  the  BSIE  did  not  receive  any 
funds  from  the  CSSPPA,  the  agency  that  marketed  the  bulk  of  Cote 
dTvoire's  coffee  and  cocoa.  In  1987  the  largest  share  of  BSIE 


101 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

funding,  amounting  to  CFA  F85.8  billion,  came  from  multilateral 
donor  agencies  (CFA  F44  billion).  Bilateral  creditors — including 
France,  Japan,  Britain,  the  United  States,  and  the  Federal  Republic 
of  Germany  (West  Germany) — provided  CFA  F16.2  billion,  and 
commercial  creditors  provided  CFA  F25.6  billion.  Meanwhile, 
domestically  generated  revenue  for  the  BSIE  was  set  to  increase 
from  the  1987  level  of  CFA  F38.8  billion  to  CFA  F  57.8  billion 
in  1988.  The  increase,  however,  represented  only  the  inclusion  of 
funds  previously  classified  as  extrabudgetary. 

The  1987  overall  budget  increased  by  a  modest  4.8  percent  and 
the  1988  budget  by  2.6  percent.  These  increases  were  primarily 
the  result  of  an  increase  in  revenue  from  taxes  on  income,  imports, 
fuel,  agricultural  products,  and  municipality  receipts.  But  because 
of  an  annual  inflation  rate  of  approximately  7  percent,  it  was  ex- 
pected that  real  spending  in  1988  would  fall.  Debt  rescheduling 
agreements  did  not  affect  the  budget  because  the  government  con- 
sidered debt  service  to  be  outside  the  main  budget  calculation. 

Banking  and  Finance 

Cote  dTvoire's  banking  system  developed  during  the  colonial 
period  as  an  extension  of  the  French  financial  and  banking  sys- 
tems. In  1962  Cote  d'lvoire,  along  with  seven  other  francophone 
nations,  became  a  member  of  the  West  African  Monetary  Union 
(Union  Monetaire  Ouest  Africaine — UMOA).  The  UMOA  estab- 
lished the  Central  Bank  of  West  African  States  (Banque  Centrale 
des  Etats  de  l'Afrique  de  F Ouest — BCEAO),  which  issued  the  Afri- 
can Financial  Community  (Communaute  Financiere  Africaine) 
franc  (CFA  F),  the  unit  of  currency  for  the  member  states,  and 
established  policies  governing  interest  rates.  Also  in  1962,  France 
and  the  members  of  the  UMOA  signed  an  agreement  that  guaran- 
teed the  convertibility  of  the  CFA  F  to  French  francs  and  estab- 
lished operations  accounts  for  each  country  with  the  French  treasury 
in  order  to  centralize  their  reserves.  The  signatories  also  agreed 
to  the  free  circulation  of  capital  within  the  union.  Since  1962  the 
UMOA  has  modified  its  system  gradually  to  grant  greater  mone- 
tary autonomy  to  the  African  member  states.  For  example,  the 
UMOA  reduced  the  share  of  French  votes  on  the  board  of  direc- 
tors from  one-third  to  one- seventh,  transferred  the  headquarters 
of  the  BCEAO  from  Paris  to  Dakar,  Senegal,  and  in  1975  intro- 
duced changes  to  increase  the  managerial  presence  of  Africans  in 
their  national  economies  and  to  help  the  member  states  make  bet- 
ter use  of  their  resources. 

Domestically,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  the  second  most  sophisticated 
banking  system  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  after  South  Africa.  In  1988 


102 


The  Economy 


it  had  twenty-one  credit  and  loan  banks  (including  fifteen  com- 
mercial banks  and  six  specialized  credit  banks),  nine  foreign  bank 
offices  with  limited  activity,  sixteen  registered  credit  or  leasing  in- 
stitutions, and  seven  organizations  similar  to  credit  unions.  More 
than  half  of  bank  ownership  remained  in  foreign  control:  six  of 
the  fifteen  commercial  banks  were  branches  of  foreign  banks  (in- 
cluding three  American  institutions) .  Of  the  fifteen  banks  with  some 
domestic  ownership,  Ivoirians  (publicly  or  privately)  owned  no  more 
than  48.4  percent. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  banking  system  was  especially  hard  hit  by 
the  fall  in  cocoa  earnings  and  the  subsequent  liquidity  crisis.  In 
1987  the  Ivoirian  Bank  for  Construction  and  Public  Works  (Banque 
Ivoirienne  de  Construction  et  de  Travaux  Publics — BICT)  and  the 
National  Savings  and  Loan  Bank  (Banque  Nationale  d'Epargne 
et  de  Credit — BNEC)  were  closed  by  authorities.  In  early  1988, 
the  National  Agricultural  Development  Bank  (Banque  Nationale 
pour  le  Developpement  Agricole — BNDA),  which  provided  credit 
to  peasant  farmers,  and  the  Cote  d'lvoire  Credit  Bank  (Credit  de 
la  Cote  d'lvoire — CCI),  an  industrial  development  bank,  suspended 
operations.  In  the  case  of  the  BNDA,  a  politically  well  connected 
borrower  who  owed  the  bank  as  much  as  US$78.9  million  was 
unable  to  account  for  the  funds  he  had  borrowed. 

Interest  and  Investment  Policies 

Ivoirian  investment  policies  reflected  the  dominant  position  in 
the  local  economy  of  expatriate  capital  and  management.  For 
example,  in  the  early  1970s  Ivoirian  rates  of  interest  were  consider- 
ably lower  than  those  in  European  countries,  thus  encouraging  for- 
eign enterprises  to  borrow  as  much  money  as  possible  in  Cote 
d'lvoire  and  to  keep  their  liquid  funds  abroad.  At  one  time  dur- 
ing this  period,  an  estimated  70  percent  of  the  credits  extended 
by  the  Ivoirian  banking  system  went  to  foreign-owned  companies. 
With  little  domestic  capital  to  draw  on,  the  government  was  forced 
to  borrow — mostly  from  abroad — to  finance  domestic  programs. 
To  stem  the  outflow  of  capital  (without  offending  foreign  interests), 
the  government  initiated  a  series  of  banking  reforms  that  set  limits 
on  the  balances  that  commercial  banks  could  have  in  foreign  ex- 
change and  increased  interest  rates  to  the  level  prevailing  abroad. 
The  measure  also  compelled  foreign-owned  enterprises  to  import 
foreign  capital  and  to  retain  a  larger  portion  of  their  profits  for  local 
investment. 

There  were  few  incentives  to  encourage  the  average  Ivoirian  or 
small-scale  entrepreneur  to  save.  Before  1973,  deposits  of  less  than 
CFA  F200,000  (US$800)  earned  no  interest  at  all,  and  large  deposits 


103 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


earned  interest  well  below  rates  in  Europe.  In  January  of  that  year, 
small  deposits  began  to  earn  2.5  percent  a  year;  this  rate  was  raised 
to  3.25  percent  two  years  later.  As  a  result,  demand  deposits,  which 
increased  by  16  percent  from  1962  to  1972,  rose  19  percent  be- 
tween 1973  and  1975.  But  by  1985,  these  highly  mobile  accounts 
were  costing  more  to  manage  than  they  were  worth  to  the  banks, 
so  the  BCEAO  suspended  interest  payments  for  two  years. 

Regulations  governing  credit  allocations  also  discouraged  local 
investment.  Banks  preferred  high  liquidity,  which  meant  that  short- 
and  medium-term  loans  (those  with  a  payback  period  of  between 
one  and  five  years)  were  granted  only  against  short  and  medium- 
term  funds,  effectively  barring  loans  to  local  businesses,  which 
lacked  the  funds.  Thus,  prior  to  new  BCEAO  regulations  in  1975, 
the  majority  of  short-  and  medium-term  credit  went  to  foreigners. 

Before  1975  and  even  afterward,  instead  of  relying  on  commer- 
cial banks,  small-scale  farmers  and  business  people  relied  on  an 
informal  parallel  banking  sector,  the  activities  of  which  were  not 
included  in  official  statistics.  The  brokers  who  collected  cash  crops 
for  export  provided  loans  and  sometimes  imported  goods  for  local 
farmers  at  what  amounted  to  usurious  interest  rates.  As  much  as 
half  the  country's  savings  may  have  circulated  in  the  parallel  bank- 
ing system. 

Efforts  were  made  to  rationalize  the  parallel  system  and  exploit 
the  accumulated  savings.  In  1968  the  government  established  the 
National  Agricultural  Development  Bank,  a  parastatal  that  helped 
small  farmers  who  otherwise  could  obtain  credit  only  from  com- 
modity brokers  in  the  parallel  system.  (In  fact,  many  loans — and 
certainly  its  largest  loans — went  to  wealthy  agroindustrialists  and 
commodity  exporters.)  In  1975  the  government  set  up  the  National 
Savings  and  Loan  Bank  to  fund  long-term  mortgages  from  local 
savings. 

The  Stock  Exchange 

The  Abidjan  Stock  Exchange  (Bourse  de  Valeurs  d' Abidjan), 
one  of  only  four  in  Africa,  was  created  in  1976  to  encourage  domes- 
tic investment  and  to  provide  Ivoirian  industries  with  access  to  the 
international  financial  market.  It  was  only  partially  successful.  Of 
an  estimated  700  companies  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  the  shares  of  only 
25  were  quoted  on  the  exchange.  Most  investors  in  the  quoted  com- 
panies were  foreign  residents  or  businesses;  in  1986  Ivoirians  owned 
only  30  percent  of  the  shares.  Trading  activity  tended  to  be  slug- 
gish, particularly  during  the  protracted  recession  in  the  early  1980s. 
For  example,  the  value  of  snares  traded  fell  from  CFA  F830  mil- 
lion in  1982  to  CFA  F400  million  in  1984. 


104 


The  Economy 


Labor 

Most  Ivoirians  were  members  of  a  traditional  agrarian  society, 
and  virtually  all  able-bodied  adults  worked.  Just  over  one- third  were 
subsistence  farmers  who  raised  little  beyond  their  immediate  needs. 
In  1982  the  economically  active  population  numbered  approximate- 
ly 4.3  million,  of  whom  about  47  percent  were  women.  Approxi- 
mately 85  percent  of  this  population  engaged  in  farming,  herding, 
fishing,  or  forestry,  as  opposed  to  nearly  90  percent  in  1962.  At 
independence,  agriculture  accounted  for  45  percent  of  all  wage  earn- 
ers; 40  percent  were  employed  in  industry,  commerce,  and  serv- 
ices, and  15  percent  were  government  employees.  In  1960  unskilled 
workers  constituted  approximately  67  percent  of  the  entire  labor 
force;  skilled  workers  and  technicians,  19  percent;  white-collar  wor- 
kers, 11  percent;  and  executive  and  managerial  positions,  3  per- 
cent. In  1982  unskilled  workers  made  up  about  80  percent  of  the 
work  force;  skilled  workers,  17  percent;  and  managerial  and  profes- 
sional workers,  3  percent.  According  to  a  1985  census,  the  largest 
employer  was  the  government,  which  employed  110,670  people 
(not  including  the  armed  forces),  or  approximately  7  percent  of 
the  nonagricultural  work  force.  Of  these  workers,  81,561  were  in 
the  civil  service,  and  the  rest  were  in  state-owned  companies. 

In  1968  the  government  created  the  Office  for  the  Promotion 
of  Ivoirian  Enterprise  (Office  de  Promotion  de  1' Enterprise  Ivoir- 
ienne — OPEI)  to  reduce — or  appear  to  reduce — the  country's  de- 
pendence on  foreign  entrepreneurial  expertise.  The  OPEI  was  to 
help  develop  or  improve  the  efficiency  of  Ivoirian  commercial,  in- 
dustrial, and  agricultural  enterprises  by  providing  studies,  statis- 
tics, administrative  assistance,  and  training  for  local  entrepreneurs. 
In  fact,  the  OPEI  focused  only  on  small-scale  entrepreneurs,  such 
as  bakers,  carpenters,  tailors,  plumbers,  and  electricians.  These 
efforts  could  not — and  apparendy  were  not  intended  to — produce 
the  high-level  managerial  expertise  that  would  reduce  the  coun- 
try's dependence  on  expatriate  initiative,  skills,  and  technology. 

Until  the  mid-1980s,  non-Africans — mostly  French — still  domi- 
nated the  managerial  and  professional  cadres.  In  1973  the  gov- 
ernment set  up  the  National  Commission  on  Ivoirianization 
to  encourage  the  appointment  of  Ivoirians  to  managerial  posts 
throughout  the  economy.  Although  Ivoirianization  of  management 
was  the  announced  purpose  of  the  commission,  Ivoirianization  was 
not  to  be  implemented  at  the  expense  of  efficiency.  Consequently, 
most  Ivoirianization  programs  in  commerce  and  industry  were 
voluntary  and  produced  only  modest  results.  According  to  official 
figures,  in  1979  Ivoirians  held  only  23  percent  of  senior  management 


105 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

positions  and  44  percent  of  junior  management  posts  in  all  pri- 
vate, public,  and  parastatal  enterprises.  By  1982  the  percentage 
of  Ivoirians  in  senior  management  positions  had  actually  dropped 
slightly  to  21  percent;  for  junior-level  management  posts,  the  per- 
centage had  risen  to  52  percent.  Among  the  country's  300  largest 
companies,  Ivoirians  still  filled  only  29  percent  of  top  management 
posts,  compared  with  67.4  percent  that  were  filled  by  non-Africans. 
The  remaining  3.6  percent  were  filled  by  non-Ivoirian  Africans. 
In  addition,  many  Europeans  worked  as  mechanics,  technicians, 
and  shop  owners,  underscoring  Cote  d'lvoire's  continued  reliance 
on  foreign  initiative  and  skills. 

The  government  also  employed  a  large  number  of  European 
teachers  and  technical  experts  known  as  cooperants  (see  Glossary). 
Most  were  recruited  by  the  French  Ministry  of  Cooperation,  but 
others  were  hired  directly  by  the  Ivoirian  government  through  pri- 
vate, usually  French,  firms  on  a  contract  basis.  The  Ivoirian  govern- 
ment was  responsible  for  80  percent  of  the  total  cost  of  those  hired 
under  official  cooperation  agreements  and  for  100  percent  of  the 
cost  of  those  hired  under  private  contract.  Pressures  for  Ivoiriani- 
zation  and  the  economic  recession  of  the  early  1980s  prompted  a 
gradual  reduction  in  the  number  of  cooperants  from  a  peak  of  4,000 
in  1980  to  3,200  in  1984.  Over  the  next  two  years,  as  economic 
conditions  worsened  and  as  more  Ivoirian  university  graduates  took 
over  teaching  jobs  in  secondary  schools,  this  number  fell  by  1,000. 

The  privately  recruited  foreign  experts  were  employed  mainly 
as  technical  advisers  in  government  ministries  and  in  state  enter- 
prises. As  part  of  a  series  of  austerity  measures,  the  IMF  insisted 
that  585  of  the  650  foreign  experts  on  government  payrolls  be  let 
go.  Those  foreign  experts  allowed  to  stay  were  in  highly  special- 
ized areas,  such  as  the  petroleum  sector  and  computer  technology. 
Despite  the  IMF  dictum,  by  the  end  of  1987  there  were  still  425 
privately  recruited  foreign  experts,  costing  the  government  CFA 
Fll  billion  annually.  In  November  1987,  the  government  recom- 
mended that  these  experts  be  retained  only  if  their  presence  was 
"indispensable  in  certain  high  technology  areas  not  yet  mastered 
by  nationals." 

Cote  d'lvoire  also  depended  on  foreigners  for  unskilled  labor. 
Since  the  early  twentieth  century,  poor  migrants  from  Burkina  Faso, 
Mali,  and  other  parts  of  West  Africa  had  worked  in  Cote  d'lvoire 
as  agricultural  and  construction  laborers.  Because  immigration  has 
been  largely  uncontrolled,  estimates  of  the  number  of  immigrants 
have  varied  by  as  much  as  100  percent,  ranging  from  1  million 
to  2  million,  and  accounted  for  70  percent  to  80  percent  of  the  un- 
skilled labor  force  in  the  rural  sector.  According  to  official  figures 


106 


The  Economy 


for  1974  (the  most  recent  year  for  which  they  were  available  in 
1988),  81.8  percent  of  the  salaried  positions  in  the  primary  sector 
(agriculture  and  raw  materials)  were  filled  by  non-Ivoirian  Afri- 
cans, while  only  16.9  percent  were  filled  by  Ivoirians.  The  figures, 
however,  were  skewed  somewhat  by  the  fact  that  most  Ivoirians 
in  the  primary  sector  were  self-employed  or  were  working  for  family 
members.  The  labor  force  shifted  easily  between  regions  and  occu- 
pational sectors.  Surveys  have  shown  that  half  the  migrant  farm 
laborers  changed  their  employment  every  two  months,  and  even 
the  more  permanent  wage  earners  moved  freely  from  job  to  job 
in  search  of  higher  pay  and  more  attractive  working  conditions. 
The  greatest  movement  occurred  between  the  traditional  and  the 
modern  sectors  of  the  economy,  as  farmers  from  subsistence  areas 
took  temporary  wage  employment  to  meet  specific  cash  needs.  This 
mobility  contributed  to  the  lack  of  training  and  skills  and  the  low 
productivity  among  nonagricultural  workers. 

Wages  and  Income  Distribution 

For  several  reasons,  it  is  difficult  to  compare  rural  incomes  with 
urban  incomes.  Agricultural  workers  earned  income  predominantiy 
from  the  production  of  goods,  rather  than  from  the  sale  of  labor. 
Much  of  this  production  was  not  marketed,  and  cash  crops  that 
were  marketed  were  sold  at  prices  that  were,  in  effect,  taxed  by 
the  government  because  of  its  pricing  policies  (see  Public  Invest- 
ment, this  ch.).  By  contrast,  urban  incomes  were  pretax  incomes, 
and  unadjusted  comparisons  exaggerate  the  difference  between  the 
two.  In  addition,  urban  workers  often  benefited  from  supplemen- 
tary nonmarket  sources  of  income,  such  as  subsidized  housing, 
access  to  credit  on  favorable  terms,  and  rental  income. 

According  to  Ministry  of  Planning  figures  for  1974  (the  most 
recent  figures  available  in  1988),  the  group  of  workers  whose  sala- 
ries fell  in  the  bottom  40  percent  in  the  private  sector  received  about 
14  of  total  salary  payments;  the  middle  40  percent  received  about 
33  percent;  and  the  top  20  percent  received  about  53  percent. 
Figures  for  workers  in  the  public  and  parastatal  enterprises  (ex- 
cluding the  civil  service)  were  similar:  the  group  of  workers  whose 
salaries  fell  in  the  bottom  40  percent  received  12  percent,  the  mid- 
dle 40  percent  received  32  percent,  and  the  top  20  percent  received 
56  percent.  In  both  sectors,  the  highest  salaries  were  paid  to  ex- 
patriates, and  the  lowest  incomes  went  to  non-Ivoirian  Africans. 
For  the  civil  service,  the  income  distribution  was  considerably  more 
balanced:  the  lowest  40  percent  received  27  percent  of  income  pay- 
ments, and  the  top  20  percent  received  35  percent.  Regionally,  in- 
comes in  the  north  lagged  behind  those  in  the  south. 


107 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Salaries  earned  by  non- Africans  ranged  from  about  twenty  times 
the  average  African  salary  in  the  primary  sector,  to  ten  times  the 
average  in  the  secondary  sector,  to  five  times  the  average  in  the 
tertiary  sector.  In  money  terms,  non- Africans  usually  received  two 
to  three  times  as  much  income  as  Africans  in  the  same  job  classifi- 
cation; in  addition,  expatriates  benefited  from  generous  housing, 
travel,  and  educational  allowances. 

Since  1932  minimum  wage  and  other  worker  compensation  stan- 
dards have  been  fixed.  The  Labor  Code  of  1952  established  guaran- 
teed minimum  wages  and  working  conditions,  and  the  Advisory 
Labor  Committee,  composed  of  an  equal  number  of  employers  and 
workers  chosen  by  their  representative  bodies,  was  set  up  to  recom- 
mend appropriate  standards.  The  committee  based  its  recommen- 
dations on  the  cost  of  living  and  the  minimum  subsistence 
requirements  of  various  segments  of  the  population.  The  commit- 
tee then  elaborated  two  minimum  wage  standards:  the  Guaran- 
teed Minimum  Agricultural  Wage  (Salaire  Minimum  Agricole 
Garanti — SMAG)  and  the  Guaranteed  Minimum  Interprofessional 
Wage  (Salaire  Minimum  Interprofessionnel  Garanti — SMIG). 

Minimum  wages  have  increased  faster  for  nonagricultural  work- 
ers. The  SMIG  rose  from  CFA  F40  per  hour  in  1962  to  CFA  F58 
per  hour  in  1970  and  increased  an  additional  58  percent  to  CFA 
F93  per  hour  by  1974.  In  1982  the  SMIG  was  raised  to  CFA  F191 .4 
per  hour.  By  contrast,  the  SMAG  rose  only  20  percent  to  CFA 
F25  per  hour  between  1970  and  1974.  In  1982  the  SMAG  was  CFA 
F30  per  hour.  Most  workers  received  wages  substantially  higher 
than  the  legal  minimum  based  on  scales  determined  by  collective 
bargaining  agreements  or,  in  the  absence  of  such  agreements,  by 
the  government. 

The  government  also  determined  other  work  rules.  In  1988  the 
maximum  work  period  was  40  hours  a  week  for  nonagricultural 
labor  and  2,400  hours  a  year  for  agricultural  labor.  By  law,  all  em- 
ployers carried  worker's  compensation  insurance.  The  labor  code 
regulated  labor  practices,  recruitment,  contracts,  the  employment 
of  women  and  children,  and  general  working  conditions  such  as 
paid  holidays,  sick  leave,  and  medical  care.  The  code  also  provided 
for  collective  agreements  between  employees  and  trade  unions  and 
for  special  courts  to  settle  labor  disputes. 

As  in  most  developing  countries,  measuring  employment  and 
unemployment  was  difficult  because  relatively  few  people  were  em- 
ployed in  the  modern  or  formal  economy,  in  which  enumerating 
workers  is  easier;  in  the  traditional  economy,  the  concept  of  un- 
employment was  almost  meaningless.  It  was  also  difficult  to  de- 
termine the  percentage  of  the  population  that  was  active  in  the  labor 


108 


The  Economy 


force.  In  spite  of  these  methodological  problems,  the  rate  of  un- 
employment in  the  early  1980s  was  calculated  to  be  9  percent,  with 
the  highest  rates  in  the  Abidjan  area. 

By  the  end  of  1987,  the  national  unemployment  rate  was  esti- 
mated to  be  11  percent;  the  rate  in  urban  areas  was  as  high  as  30 
percent.  The  actual  number  of  unemployed  persons  was  estimated 
to  be  600,000,  although  only  86,000  were  officially  registered  with 
the  Employment  Office  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Office  de  la  Main  d'Oeuvre 
de  Cote  d'lvoire — OMOCI).  Contributing  to  the  high  rates  of  un- 
employment were  a  sharp  increase  in  the  number  of  high  school 
and  university  graduates  with  inappropriate  skills,  migration  of 
young  people  from  rural  areas,  a  continued  high  rate  of  immigra- 
tion from  neighboring  countries,  and  reduced  recruitment  levels 
in  the  public,  parastatal,  and  private  sectors.  Significantly,  these 
problems  were  becoming  more  acute  because  the  economically  ac- 
tive population  was  growing  4  percent  a  year  and  was  expected 
to  reach  7.5  million  by  1992. 

Labor  Unions 

In  the  1980s,  approximately  100,000  full-time  workers,  mostly 
professionals,  civil  servants,  and  teachers,  belonged  to  unions  (see 
Interest  Groups,  ch.  4).  Virtually  all  unions  were  under  the  um- 
brella of  the  General  Federation  of  Ivoirian  Workers  (Union  Gener- 
ale  des  Travailleurs  de  Cote  d'lvoire — UGTCI),  which  was  tightly 
controlled  by  the  party  and,  by  extension,  the  government.  Con- 
sequently, the  leadership  of  the  UGTCI  invariably  supported  the 
government  in  its  efforts  to  promote  unity  and  development,  often 
at  the  expense  of  labor.  As  a  political  force,  the  UGTCI  exercised 
little  clout. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture  was  the  foundation  of  the  economy  and  its  main 
source  of  growth.  In  1987  the  agricultural  sector  contributed  35 
percent  of  the  country's  GDP  and  66  percent  of  its  export  revenues, 
provided  employment  for  about  two-thirds  of  the  national  work 
force,  and  generated  substantial  revenues  despite  the  drop  in  coffee 
and  cocoa  prices.  From  1965  to  1980,  agricultural  GDP  grew  by 
an  average  4.6  percent  per  year.  Growth  of  agricultural  GDP  from 
coffee,  cocoa,  and  timber  production,  which  totaled  nearly  50  per- 
cent of  Cote  d T voire 's  export  revenues,  averaged  7  percent  a  year 
from  1965  to  1980.  Contributing  to  this  impressive  performance 
were  an  abundance  of  fertile  land,  cheap  labor,  the  collective  ef- 
forts of  many  farmers  cultivating  small  plots,  relatively  favorable 
commodity  prices,  and  a  stable  political  environment. 


109 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Success  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  overshadowed  major  problems 
developing  in  the  agricultural  sector.  By  the  late  1980s,  despite  ef- 
forts to  diversify  its  crops,  55  percent  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  export  earn- 
ings still  came  from  cocoa  and  coffee.  Moreover,  highly  volatile 
world  markets  for  both  commodities  caused  sharp  fluctuations  in 
government  revenues  and  made  development  planning  difficult. 
In  addition,  Cote  d'lvoire  was  not  yet  self-sufficient  in  food  produc- 
tion and  imported  substantial  quantities  of  rice,  wheat,  fish,  and 
red  meat.  Finally,  despite  an  enormous  increase  in  the  volume  of 
agricultural  output  since  independence,  there  was  little  improve- 
ment in  agricultural  productivity.  To  achieve  higher  production 
figures,  traditional  farmers  using  traditional  technologies  simply 
cleared  more  and  more  land. 

To  overcome  Cote  d'lvoire's  excessive  dependence  on  coffee  and 
cocoa  (the  prices  for  which  were  set  by  consumers),  on  timber  (the 
supply  of  which  was  nearly  exhausted),  and  on  imported  food,  the 
government  in  the  mid-1970s  embarked  on  a  series  of  agricultural 
diversification  and  regional  development  projects  with  the  hope  of 
boosting  agricultural  production  by  4  percent  per  year.  The  plan, 
estimated  to  cost  CFA  F100  billion  per  annum  (with  just  over  50 
percent  coming  from  foreign  lenders)  would  allow  the  country  to 
become  self-sufficient  in  food  (with  the  exception  of  wheat)  and 
expand  the  production  of  rubber,  cotton,  sugar,  bananas,  pine- 
apples, and  tropical  oils. 

In  spite  of  these  efforts,  the  agricultural  sector  appeared  unable 
to  adapt  to  changing  conditions.  Distortions  in  the  system  of  in- 
centives reduced  the  comparative  advantage  of  alternative  crops. 
The  vast  revenues  collected  by  the  CSSPPA  were  often  spent  on 
marginally  profitable  investments,  like  the  costly  sugar  complexes 
or  expensive  land-clearing  programs  (see  Diversification  Crops, 
this  ch.).  Finally,  some  diversification  crops,  like  coconut  and  palm 
oil,  faced  new  threats  as  health-conscious  consumers  in  the  United 
States  and  Europe  began  turning  away  from  tropical  oils.  Conse- 
quently, the  future  for  Ivoirian  agriculture  remained  cloudy. 

Land  Use 

Resources 

Of  the  total  land  area  of  more  than  322,000  square  kilometers, 
52  percent  was  considered  agricultural  land,  or  slightly  over  3.6 
hectares  per  capita.  Total  land  area  fell  into  one  of  two  distinct 
agricultural  regions:  the  forest  region  (about  140,000  square 
kilometers)  in  the  south  and  the  drier  savanna  region  (about  180,000 
square  kilometers)  in  the  north,  where  economic  growth  has 


110 


The  Economy 


generally  been  slower  (see  Climate,  ch.  2).  The  forest  region,  which 
had  higher  and  more  reliable  rainfall  and  better  soils,  produced 
most  export  crops.  Rainfall  in  the  savanna  averaged  about  two- 
thirds  of  that  in  the  forest  region  and  was  unreliable  from  year  to 
year.  In  addition,  the  soils  were  generally  light  and  ranged  from 
medium  to  poor  quality.  As  a  result,  agricultural  yields  were  low 
and  opportunities  for  using  labor-saving  technology  were  limited. 

The  prevailing  system  of  cultivation  for  both  cereals  and  feculents 
(starchy  foods)  was  known  as  shifting  agriculture,  or  bush  fallow. 
Fields  were  cultivated  for  three  to  four  years,  after  which  they  were 
left  fallow  for  periods  of  up  to  ten  years  to  restore  their  fertility. 
To  maximize  their  return  on  a  given  plot,  farmers  first  cultivated 
a  more  exigent  crop  like  yams,  followed  in  subsequent  years  with 
less  demanding  crops  like  corn,  and  finally  planted  cassava,  after 
which  the  plot  was  left  untilled.  In  Cote  dT voire,  as  elsewhere  in 
Africa,  population  pressures  forced  farmers  to  reduce  the  fallow 
period,  leading  to  diminished  soil  fertility  and  productivity.  The 
use  of  chemical  fertilizers  was  not  common;  annual  consumption 
of  fertilizers  in  1982  was  51,800  tons,  or  only  8.5  kilograms  per 
hectare. 

As  in  most  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  farm  labor  was  usually  manual, 
without  the  aid  of  animals  or  mechanization.  In  1982  there  were 
3,200  tractors  and  40  harvester-threshers  in  the  country,  nearly 
all  of  which  were  on  large  private  or  government-owned  plantations. 
Nearly  all  agriculture  relied  on  natural  rainfall  or,  in  the  case  of 
paddy  rice,  rudimentary,  gravity-fed  irrigation  systems.  Under  the 
1976-78  development  plan,  the  government  constructed  dams  on 
the  Bandama  River  at  Taabo  and  on  the  Sassandra  River  at  Buyo 
for  irrigation. 

Tenure 

Land  tenure  systems  differed  among  the  various  ethnic  groups; 
nevertheless,  most  systems  were  based  on  the  concept  of  communal 
ownership  of  land.  At  the  same  time,  individual  families  were 
granted  rights  to  cultivate  a  specific  area  (which  included  fallow 
areas),  and  these  rights  included  some  form  of  inheritance  within 
the  family.  Unused  lands  reverted  to  the  community.  In  1902  the 
French  introduced  the  concept  that  individuals  or  corporations  could 
hold  legal  title  to  land  with  exclusive  rights;  this  law,  however,  had 
little  impact  in  the  rural  areas.  After  independence,  Ivoirian  law 
on  landownership  provided  for  surveys  and  registration  of  land, 
which  then  became  the  irrevocable  property  of  the  owner  and  his 
or  her  successors. 


Ill 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Cocoa 

In  1988  Cote  d'lvoire  led  the  world  in  cocoa  production  with 
more  than  500,000  tons  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  Cocoa  was  grown 
mainly  on  small  family-owned  farms  with  labor  supplied  principally 
by  immigrants  from  other  African  countries.  Production  growth 
averaged  6  percent  to  7  percent  a  year  throughout  the  1965-74 
period  and  accelerated  as  the  plantings  of  the  late  1970s  and  the 
early  1980s  entered  their  prime.  The  total  area  of  cocoa  cultivation 
more  than  doubled  from  1973  to  1983,  from  611,000  hectares  to 
1,398,900  hectares. 

In  Cote  d'lvoire,  cocoa  became  a  cash  crop  only  in  1912,  when 
colonial  authorities  forced  Africans  to  cultivate  it.  Cocoa,  like  coffee, 
was  a  forest  crop;  it  required  ample  rainfall,  partial  shade,  and 
shelter  from  wind,  all  of  which  occurred  only  in  the  southern  forest 
zone  (see  fig.  9).  Cacao  trees  produced  pods,  which  grew  on  the 
trunk  and  older  branches,  beginning  at  four  or  five  years,  and  con- 
tinued producing  for  twenty  to  thirty  years.  The  pods  were  har- 
vested from  June  through  August  and  from  November  through 
January,  although  some  pods  ripened  throughout  the  year.  After 
harvest,  the  beans  and  pulp  were  extracted  from  the  pods  and  al- 
lowed to  ferment  for  six  or  seven  days  and  then  dried.  Yields  aver- 
aged 220  kilograms  per  hectare.  The  bulk  of  the  crop  was  produced 
on  small  plots  of  one  or  two  hectares. 

Cote  d'lvoire' s  success  as  a  cocoa  producer  has  been  a  mixed 
blessing.  In  September  1987,  cocoa  prices  fell  to  their  lowest  levels 
since  1983.  In  December  prices  were  even  lower  following  fore- 
casts that  the  world  surplus  for  the  1987-88  season  would  be  sub- 
stantially higher  than  the  previous  season's,  marking  the  fourth 
successive  year  of  a  world  cocoa  surplus.  In  September  1987,  talks 
aimed  at  restoring  the  price  support  mechanisms  of  the  Inter- 
national Cocoa  Organization  ended  in  failure  when  producers 
and  consumers  were  unable  to  agree  on  the  price  level  to  be 
defended. 

Coffee 

Cote  d'lvoire  ranked  third  in  world  coffee  production  after  Brazil 
and  Colombia.  Introduced  as  a  cash  crop  during  the  colonial  period, 
coffee  was  cultivated  throughout  the  forest  zone,  with  the  heaviest 
production  in  the  denser  forests  of  the  east  and  along  the  margin 
of  the  forest  moving  westward  from  Dimbokro  to  Man.  The  bulk 
of  the  crop  consisted  of  robusta  varieties,  which  were  more  bitter 
and  less  expensive  than  arabica  varieties  and  therefore  were  used 
in  blends  to  reduce  costs. 


112 


The  Economy 


Coffee  trees  were  started  in  nurseries.  After  about  a  year,  be- 
fore the  rains  in  May,  they  were  transplanted  to  permanent  sites. 
After  two  years  they  were  pruned  to  a  maximum  height  of  two 
meters  to  make  harvesting  easier,  and  they  were  kept  pruned  to 
improve  yields.  Trees  began  bearing  at  above  five  years  and  con- 
tinued to  produce  for  ten  to  twenty  years.  Trees  flowered  several 
times  throughout  the  year;  however,  the  main  harvests  took  place 
in  August  and  November  through  January.  Yields  averaged  250 
kilograms  per  hectare,  or  about  25  percent  of  the  yields  in  Colom- 
bia and  Brazil,  where  trees  received  better  care.  Following  the  har- 
vest, the  berries  were  hulled,  peeled,  dried,  and  sorted  before  being 
shipped  or  processed  locally. 

Prior  to  independence,  production  grew  at  a  rate  of  10  percent 
per  year.  By  the  late  1950s,  however,  expansion  slowed,  and  be- 
tween 1965  and  1984  annual  coffee  production  averaged  252,000 
tons.  By  the  mid-1980s,  60  percent  of  the  coffee  trees  in  the  coun- 
try were  more  than  fifteen  years  old  and  producing  well  below  aver- 
age yields.  Attempts  by  the  government  to  encourage  the  planting 
of  new  coffee  trees  were  largely  unsuccessful,  and  production  in 
the  aging  plantations  continued  to  drop. 

Timber 

Timber  exports  ranked  third  in  importance  behind  cocoa  and 
coffee;  but  by  1980  this  industry  was  declining  because  of  over- 
cutting.  From  1965  to  1975,  the  period  of  peak  timber  exploita- 
tion, log  and  sawed  wood  exports  contributed  an  average  of  23 
percent  of  foreign  exchange  earnings  annually.  In  the  early  1980s, 
timber  exploitation  averaged  an  annual  4  million  cubic  meters  of 
logs  and  accounted  for  9  percent  of  the  agricultural  GDP  (see 
fig.  10).  By  contrast,  in  1984  exports  of  logs  and  sawed  wood  had 
declined  to  2 . 1  million  cubic  meters  and  represented  only  1 2  per- 
cent of  exports. 

Overexploitation  through  the  1960s  and  mid-1970s  almost  de- 
pleted forest  resources.  Cote  dTvoire's  forest  shrank  from  15  mil- 
lion hectares  in  1960  to  less  than  3  million  in  1987.  Deforestation 
continued  at  a  rate  of  300,000  to  500,000  hectares  a  year,  while 
annual  plantings  averaged  only  5,000  hectares.  The  government's 
response  to  this  ecological  disaster  was  halfhearted:  in  1985  the 
government-owned  Forest  Development  Company  (Societe  pour 
le  Developpement  des  Forets — SODEFOR)  initiated  an  industrial 
reforestation  program  designed  to  produce  some  6.6  million  cubic 
meters  of  wood  in  thirty-five  years.  The  SODEFOR  program  will 
have  little  impact  on  timber  production  through  at  least  the  year 
2000,  however,  and  until  then,  producers  will  continue  to  exploit 


113 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  J. -N.  Loucou,  "Histoire,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  39-45. 

Figure  9.  Cocoa,  Coffee,  and  Timber  Producing  Areas 


shrinking  natural  forests.  As  a  follow-up  on  the  SODEFOR  pro- 
gram, the  government  declared  1988  "the  year  of  the  Ivoirian 
forest"  and  approved  a  CFA  F1.3  billion  tree-planting  program 
to  plant  a  total  of  25,000  hectares.  This  represented  only  0.2  per- 
cent of  the  forest  land  lost  since  1960.  Finally,  the  government  an- 
nounced a  novel  scheme  to  create  agricultural  belts  around  the 
remaining  wooded  areas,  making  those  who  were  allocated  plots 
responsible  for  policing  the  forests.  Despite  these  gestures,  the 


114 


The  Economy 


government  insisted  in  1985  that  timber  exports  would  cease  only 
when  the  country's  financial  situation  stabilized  or  when  substi- 
tute exports  could  be  found,  neither  of  which  had  occurred  by 
1988. 

Diversification  Crops 

In  the  mid-1970s,  the  government  undertook  major  efforts  to 
diversify  export  crops  and  end  its  dependence  on  cocoa  and  coffee. 
In  the  forest  zone,  diversification  products  were  palm  oil,  coconut 
oil,  and  rubber,  all  of  which  enjoyed  a  comparative  advantage  on 
the  international  market.  In  the  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  become 
the  largest  palm  oil  exporter  in  Africa,  and  the  1987  harvest  of 
215,000  tons  made  Cote  d'lvoire  one  of  the  world's  largest 
producers.  In  1985  an  expansion  program  called  for  planting  65,000 
additional  hectares  of  oil  palms  and  constructing  four  new  indus- 
trial plantations.  With  some  15,000  hectares  of  new  plantings  each 
year,  production  was  expected  to  continue  its  rise.  At  the  same 
time,  production  costs  in  Cote  d'lvoire  were  high,  perhaps  reflecting 
the  fact  that  individual  holdings  were  small  and  often  located  on 
less  productive  land. 

In  1987  Cote  d'lvoire's  rubber  production  totaled  38,700  tons, 
and  there  were  plans  to  increase  production  to  80,000  tons  a  year 
by  1990.  This  increase  would  place  the  country  ahead  of  Liberia, 
then  the  largest  African  producer  of  natural  rubber.  The  number 
of  hectares  under  rubber  cultivation  increased  sixfold  from  1960 
to  1984,  from  7,243  to  43,634  hectares. 

In  the  north,  or  savanna  zone,  cotton  and  sugar  were  the  chief 
diversification  crops.  Cotton  was  first  introduced  during  the 
colonial  period  by  the  French  Textile  Development  Company 
(Compagnie  Francaise  de  Developpement  des  Textiles — CFDT), 
which  at  independence  became  the  Ivoirian  Textile  Development 
Company  (Compagnie  Ivoirienne  de  Developpement  des  Textiles — 
CIDT).  Cotton  became  economically  important  only  after  indepen- 
dence. In  1965  there  were  some  12,000  hectares  of  cotton,  and  by 
1979,  there  were  123,000  hectares.  Production  leveled  off  in  the 
early  1980s  but  picked  up  again  between  1981  and  1984.  Cotton 
(fiber  and  cottonseed)  production  in  1986-87  set  a  new  record  of 
213,506  tons,  compared  with  the  previous  season's  190,000  tons 
and  the  country's  previous  record  of  205,000  tons  in  1984-85,  mak- 
ing Cote  d'lvoire  the  third  largest  cotton  producer  in  Africa,  after 
Egypt  and  Sudan.  Cotton  fiber  production  over  the  same  period 
amounted  to  91,000  tons  (1987),  75,000  ton  (1986),  and  88,000 
tons  (1985).  Cote  d'lvoire  exported  about  80  percent  of  its  crop. 


115 


Cote  dTvoire:  A  Country  Study 


THOUSANDS 


6000 


5000 


4000 


3000 


2000 


1000 


1961       1965      1970      1975      1980      1986  1987 

YEAR 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  J. -N.  Loucou,  "Histoire,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  52-55. 

Figure  10.  Timber  Production,  Selected  Years,  1961-87 

Cote  d'lvoire  was  Africa's  eighth  largest  sugar  producer,  with 
a  yield  of  nearly  144,000  tons  in  1987,  more  than  half  of  which  was 
exported.  Industrial  sugar  production  began  only  in  the  early  1970s 
with  the  creation  of  SODESUCRE,  a  parastatal  that  constructed 
and  operated  six  large  industrial  sugar  refineries  located  at  Ferkes- 
sedougou  (Ferke  I  and  Ferke  II)  and  four  smaller  towns  in  the  savanna 
region  (By  1987  two  of  the  factories  had  been  closed.)  In  1982  these 
complexes  contributed  about  3  percent  of  the  agricultural  GDP. 

The  colonial  government  introduced  bananas  for  export  in  1931, 
and  by  1961  the  fruit  was  the  second  largest  earner  of  foreign 
exchange.  The  principal  production  areas  lay  between  Aboisso  and 
Divo.  Exported  varieties,  which  are  larger  and  sweeter  than  native 
fruits,  were  harvested  year  round.  French  settlers  owned  the  first 
plantations;  by  1961  holdings  by  Africans  amounted  to  about  one- 
third  of  the  6,500  hectares  under  cultivation  for  export.  By  the 
mid-1980s,  the  fraction  in  land  or  in  corporations  held  by  foreigners 
dropped  to  less  than  10  percent.  Production  for  1985  came  to 
163,000  tons,  of  which  only  105,000  tons  were  exportable.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  routinely  fell  short  of  its  allotted  export 
quota  to  Europe,  in  part  because  labor  shortages  adversely  affected 
the  quality  of  the  fruit. 


116 


The  Economy 


Pineapples  have  been  raised  commercially  only  since  1950.  In 
1961  fewer  than  600  hectares  were  cultivated;  Africans  owned 
approximately  one-half  the  area.  By  1986,  under  the  impetus  of 
government  encouragement  and  support,  438,000  hectares  were 
under  cultivation.  Production  amounted  to  approximately  250,000 
tons,  up  from  195,000  tons  a  year  earlier,  of  which  180,000  tons 
were  exported  as  fresh  fruit.  The  remainder  of  the  harvest  was 
canned  locally.  The  major  producing  area  was  near  Abidjan. 

Food  Crops 

In  1987  the  staple  food  crops  made  up  about  38  percent  of  the 
value  of  agricultural  production.  The  principal  food  crops  in  Cote 
dTvoire  were  the  feculents,  or  starches  (yams,  plantains,  cassava, 
and  taro),  which  made  up  76  percent  of  the  value  and  60  percent 
of  the  bulk  of  staples  output.  Gross  production  per  annum  amounted 
to  approximately  4.5  million  tons.  Gross  production  of  cereals 
(paddy  rice,  maize,  sorghum,  and  millet)  amounted  to  about  1  mil- 
lion tons  per  year;  however,  cereals,  which  occupied  a  larger  cul- 
tivated area  than  did  the  feculents,  had  a  higher  total  protein  value. 
Food  crop  production  increased  by  approximately  3.4  percent  per 
annum  between  1965  and  1984,  with  cereals  having  a  slighdy  higher 
rate  of  growth.  At  the  same  time,  food  crop  productivity  per  rural 
family  increased  by  about  1  percent  per  year,  well  under  the  rate 
of  population  growth.  This  shortfall,  along  with  a  preference  on 
the  part  of  much  of  the  population  for  imported  rice  and  bread 
over  indigenous  foodstuffs,  increased  rice  and  wheat  imports  to  a 
high  of  590,000  tons  in  1983,  or  about  40  percent  of  national  cereals 
consumption.  Cereal  imports  dropped  to  150,000  tons  in  1985  after 
prices  for  imported  foodstuffs  had  increased,  good  rains  had  ended 
the  drought,  and  the  government  had  inaugurated  a  food  self- 
sufficiency  campaign.  In  1987  imported  cereals  amounted  to  about 
14  percent  of  the  national  diet,  as  compared  with  20  percent  earlier 
in  the  decade. 

Measured  by  area  cultivated  and  tonnage,  yams  were  the  lead- 
ing food  crop,  especially  in  the  region  east  of  the  Bandama  River. 
A  number  of  varieties  of  yams  grew  in  Cote  dTvoire,  differing  by 
size  of  tubers,  moisture  requirements,  and  length  of  growing 
season.  Yams  had  stringent  soil  needs,  however,  and  demanded 
far  more  labor  to  plant  and  harvest  than  did  the  other  root  crops. 
In  addition,  roughly  one-quarter  of  the  crop  had  to  be  reserved 
to  seed  the  next  crop.  Seed  yams  were  planted  near  the  top  of 
conical  mounds,  usually  %  to  1  lA  meters  high  and  1  to  1 XA  meters 
apart,  and  formed  from  finely  cultivated  soil.  Usually  other  crops 
such  as  maize,  beans,  tomatoes,  or  peas  were  planted  on  the  sides 


117 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  mounds.  Providing  support  for  the  yam  vines  (which  could 
reach  as  high  as  seven  meters)  were  either  stakes  or  liana — long, 
climbing  vines — which  hung  from  dead,  leafless  trees  purposely 
left  standing  in  the  yam  fields  in  the  forest  zone.  Depending  on 
the  variety,  the  yam  tubers,  which  varied  in  weight  from  a  kilo- 
gram or  less  to  as  much  as  forty  kilograms,  were  ready  for  harvest 
after  about  eight  months.  The  best  yields  in  the  Bouake  region  were 
about  12.4  tons  per  hectare.  In  the  more  humid  south,  the  yield 
was  higher,  and  farther  north  it  was  lower.  The  heaviest  yam- 
producing  areas  were  around  Bouake,  Seguela,  and  Korhogo. 

West  of  the  Bandama  River,  rice  was  the  principal  food  crop 
although  rice  cultivation  was  spreading  across  Cote  d'lvoire  wherever 
conditions  were  suitable.  Local  farmers  had  cultivated  a  native  variety 
of  rice  for  centuries.  In  the  twentieth  century,  however,  French 
colonial  administrators  introduced  more  prolific  Oriental  species  of 
both  upland  (dry)  rice  and  paddy  rice.  Dry  rice  predominated,  prob- 
ably because  it  required  less  technology,  matured  more  quickly,  and 
could  be  interplanted  with  other  crops.  Dry  rice  matured  in  about 
three  months  and  yielded  about  560  kilograms  per  hectare,  com- 
pared with  a  five-  to  six-month  maturation  period  for  wet  rice  and 
yields  averaging  786  kilograms  per  hectare. 

Among  cereals,  maize  followed  rice  in  tonnage  harvested.  It  was 
planted  throughout  the  country;  however,  except  in  the  northwest 
where  most  maize  was  produced,  it  was  subsidiary  to  other  crops. 
Local  varieties  of  maize  matured  in  as  little  as  two  months,  mak- 
ing it  particularly  suited  to  the  north,  where  it  could  be  planted 
after  the  first  rains  in  May  and  harvested  during  the  period  when 
old  yam  stocks  were  depleted  and  the  new  yams  were  not  yet  ma- 
ture. In  the  south,  two  crops  per  year  were  common.  Because  maize 
depletes  the  soil,  farmers  often  interplanted  it  with  other  crops  such 
as  yams,  beans,  and  gourds  or  cultivated  it  in  fertilized  household 
gardens.  Yields,  which  were  low  by  Western  standards,  averaged 
nearly  1.3  tons  per  hectare,  reflecting  the  absence  of  both  ferti- 
lizers and  mechanized  farming  practices.  As  was  true  for  other 
crops,  insects,  rodents,  and,  in  the  south,  moisture,  made  maize 
storage  difficult. 

Other  important  food  crops  were  plantains  and  cassava  or  manioc. 
The  plantain,  which  is  of  the  same  genus  as  the  banana,  followed 
yams  in  annual  tonnage  harvested.  Because  it  required  sustained 
rainfall,  production  was  limited  to  the  south,  where  it  was  often  in- 
terplanted with  cacao.  Plantains  were  raised  from  shoots  removed 
from  the  base  of  a  mature  tree.  The  shoot  formed  a  stalk  (about 
three  meters  high)  that  bore  a  single  cluster  of  fruit  ready  for  har- 
vest after  twelve  to  fifteen  months.  After  the  plantains  were  harvested, 


118 


Log  carriers  waiting  to  unload  at  the  port 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 

the  stalk  was  cut  off  at  ground  level,  and  a  new  shoot  was  allowed 
to  sprout.  After  five  or  six  years,  the  old  root  system  was  removed, 
and  a  new  tree  was  planted.  Harvesting  continued  throughout  the 
year;  yields  varied  with  soil  conditions  but  averaged  just  under  five 
tons  per  hectare. 

Cassava,  which  served  as  a  hedge  against  famine,  was  third  in 
importance  after  yams  and  plantains.  Cassava  was  also  a  root  crop 
that  was  easy  to  cultivate,  resisted  pests  and  drought,  and  took  lit- 
tle from  the  soil,  yet  still  produced  fair  yields.  Because  cassava  was 
propagated  by  stem  cuttings,  the  entire  crop  could  be  used  for  food. 
The  growing  period  was  from  six  to  fifteen  months,  but  even  after 
the  roots  matured,  they  could  be  left  in  the  ground  for  several  years 
without  damage.  In  the  south,  where  two  plantings  per  year  were 
common,  cassava  was  often  interplanted  with  other  crops  and  held 
in  reserve  or  planted  as  a  final  crop  before  a  field  was  abandoned 
for  fallow.  In  the  north,  only  a  single  planting  per  year  was  possi- 
ble. Estimates  of  yields  ranged  from  about  five  tons  to  just  under 
ten  tons  per  hectare.  These  figures  were  unreliable,  however, 
because  roots  were  harvested  only  when  needed. 

Other  food  crops  included  taro  (in  the  south)  and  varieties  of 
millet  and  sorghum  (in  the  north).  Individual  households  raised 
garden  vegetables,  including  okra,  tomatoes,  peanuts,  and  eggplant, 
in  small  plots  near  dwellings  or  interplanted  among  field  crops. 


119 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Tropical  fruit  trees,  both  wild  and  domestic,  produced  sweet 
bananas,  avocados,  oranges,  papayas,  mangoes,  coconuts,  lemons, 
and  limes.  Oil  palms  and  shea  trees  provided  cooking  oils. 

Even  in  the  best  of  years,  Cote  d'lvoire  imported  vast  quanti- 
ties of  wheat,  rice,  meat,  and  milk.  To  achieve  food  self-sufficiency, 
the  agricultural  recovery  program  proposed  by  the  Council  of 
Ministers  sought  to  increase  production  of  rice,  maize,  peanuts, 
and  the  newly  introduced  soybeans,  all  of  which  were  grown  primar- 
ily in  the  northern  savanna  zone.  In  addition,  the  government  in- 
tended to  revamp  the  Food  Marketing  Bureau  (Office  pour  la 
Commercialisation  des  Produits  Vivriers — OCPV)  to  streamline 
the  marketing  of  such  food  crops  as  yams,  plantains,  and  cassava. 
Finally,  the  Council  of  Ministers  also  inaugurated  a  project  to 
achieve  self-sufficiency  in  animal  proteins. 

Animal  Husbandry 

With  some  exceptions,  tsetse  fly  infestation  limited  livestock 
production  in  savanna  regions  as  did  the  absence  of  forage  in  the 
forest  zone.  Consequently,  there  were  few  pastoral  groups  in  Cote 
d'lvoire,  and  the  country's  livestock  population  was  unable  to  meet 
domestic  needs.  In  1985  there  were  approximately  843,000  cattle, 
most  of  which  were  of  the  small,  humpless  N'dama  breed.  There 
were  also  1.5  million  sheep,  430,000  swine,  1.5  million  goats,  and 
16  million  poultry. 

In  1987  the  livestock  sector  contributed  about  6  percent  of  agricul- 
tural output.  About  half  of  that  total  came  from  poultry  and  egg 
production,  about  one-quarter  came  from  cattle,  and  the  remainder 
came  from  sheep  and  goats.  Although  virtually  all  poultry  consumed 
in  Cote  d'lvoire  was  produced  locally,  domestic  beef  production 
met  only  about  40  percent  of  demand.  The  remainder  entered  as 
live  cattle  from  Mali  and  Burkina  Faso  or  as  slaughtered  meat  from 
Western  Europe,  Argentina,  or  southern  Africa.  In  the  1980s,  the 
government  sought  to  strengthen  livestock  production  by  provid- 
ing education  and  training  in  modern  animal  husbandry  and  by 
introducing  large-scale  cattle  fattening  centers  near  Bouake  and 
Abidjan. 

Fisheries 

In  1987  combined  fish  production  in  Cote  d'lvoire  was  estimated 
to  be  worth  CFA  F15  billion,  and  its  share  in  net  agricultural  value 
added  was  1 .6  percent.  Contributing  about  equally  to  the  total  were 
the  tuna  industry;  low-technology  coastal  and  freshwater  fishing, 
including  a  large  smoked  fish  industry;  and  a  fleet  of  privately  owned 
trawling,  sardine  seining,  and  shrimping  vessels.  In  the  1980s, 


120 


The  Economy 


canned  fish  was  the  country's  seventh  largest  export  commodity 
in  revenue  generated  (behind  cocoa,  coffee,  fuels  and  chemicals, 
timber,  cotton,  and  palm  oil),  amounting  to  about  20,000  tons  a 
year  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  Nevertheless,  export  revenues  from 
fish  exports  only  slightly  exceeded  foreign  exchange  payouts  for 
the  approximately  100,000  tons  of  frozen  fish  imported  each  year. 
The  imports  supplemented  the  canoe  and  fleet  catches,  which  met 
about  half  of  domestic  demand. 

Insofar  as  Ivoirian  coastal  waters  had  probably  reached  their 
maximum  sustained  yield  in  1988,  possibilities  for  growth  in  the 
fishing  "sector  were  limited  without  costly  research  and  develop- 
ment, which  the  country  could  ill  afford.  The  areas  offering  the 
greatest  potential  for  growth  were  the  tuna  industry  and  domestic 
freshwater  production  in  artificial  lakes  and  ponds.  After  comple- 
tion of  the  Kossou  Dam  on  the  Bandama  River,  freshwater  catches 
increased  (see  Electricity,  this  ch.).  Malian  fishermen  from  the  Niger 
River  region  moved  into  the  area,  set  up  fishing  villages,  and  earned 
a  comfortable  livelihood  from  the  carefully  stocked  lake. 

Manufacturing 

At  independence,  Cote  d'lvoire  manufactured  little  more  than 
timber  by-products,  textiles,  and  food  processed  from  local  agricul- 
tural products.  Little  was  exported.  The  lack  of  an  indigenous, 
skilled  labor  force,  inexperienced  management,  and  low  domestic 
demand  limited  industrial  growth. 

At  that  time,  there  was  little  direct  state  involvement  in  manu- 
facturing. Nearly  all  industrial  companies  were  financed  by  pri- 
vate— mainly  foreign — capital.  On  the  strength  of  its  growing  and 
protected  domestic  market  and,  in  the  1960s  and  1970s,  the  de- 
velopment of  regional  markets  under  the  aegis  of  the  West  Afri- 
can Economic  Community  (Communaute  Economique  de  l'Afrique 
Occidentale — CEAO),  Ivoirian  industrialization  flourished. 

Following  independence,  light  industry  became  one  of  the  most 
rapidly  growing  sectors  in  the  economy.  Between  1960  and  1980, 
manufacturing  grew  at  the  rate  of  13  percent  per  year,  and  its  con- 
tribution to  GDP  rose  from  4  percent  in  1960  to  17  percent  in  1984. 
The  number  of  firms  rose  from  50  at  independence  to  more  than 
600  in  1986.  Expanding  most  rapidly  were  import  substitution  in- 
dustries like  textiles,  shoes,  construction  materials  (such  as  cement, 
plywood,  lumber,  ceramics,  and  sheet  and  corrugated  metal),  and 
industries  processing  local  agricultural  raw  materials  (such  as  palm 
oil,  coffee,  cocoa,  and  fruits). 

Although  agricultural  processing  plants  used  locally  produced 
inputs,  import  substitution  industries — as  well  as  firms  manufac- 
turing or  providing  chemicals,  plastics,  fertilizers,  and  engineering 


121 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

services — imported  their  raw  materials  (50  percent  of  intermediate 
inputs  were  imported).  In  many  instances,  these  costiy  intermediate 
inputs  raised  the  price  of  completed  products  far  above  the  price 
of  comparable  imported  goods.  Consequently,  the  government 
promoted  and  protected  local  industry  by  imposing  tariffs  and  in- 
centives. 

The  system  of  industrial  tariffs  and  incentives,  however,  proved 
to  be  shortsighted.  These  measures  avoided  quantitative  import 
restrictions  and  included  a  tariff  schedule  that  protected  all  indus- 
trial activities,  whether  threatened  by  imports  or  not.  By  assign- 
ing tariffs  according  to  the  degree  of  processing  and  by  exempting 
some  inputs  that  could  be  produced  locally  and  less  expensively, 
the  government  discouraged  domestic  production  of  intermediate 
inputs. 

Additional  efforts  to  promote  industry,  and  particularly  small  - 
and  medium- scale  enterprises,  were  equally  inadequate.  Manage- 
ment personnel  often  lacked  skills  and  experience,  political  con- 
nections often  influenced  policy,  and  there  was  little  coordination 
among  state  bureaucracies  responsible  for  assisting  the  struggling 
firms.  In  response,  the  government  promulgated  a  new  investment 
code  in  1984  (subsequently  altered  in  1985)  by  providing  bonuses 
for  exports  and  by  reforming  tariffs,  which  served  to  shelter  ele- 
ments of  an  already  overprotected  and  inefficient  industrial  sector. 

In  1987  the  government  adopted  additional  measures  originally 
proposed  by  the  United  Nations  Industrial  Development  Organi- 
zation (UNIDO)  to  expand  exports  and  make  industry  more 
efficient.  This  new  policy  proposed  modernizing  import  substitu- 
tion industries,  manufacturing  new  products  with  high  added  value 
for  export,  and  expanding  the  existing  range  of  agriculture-based, 
export-oriented  industries.  The  new  exportable  agricultural  prod- 
ucts were  to  include  processed  food  (maize,  cottonseed,  fruits, 
vegetables,  manioc,  yams,  and  coconuts),  textiles  (spinning  and 
weaving,  ready-to-wear  clothing,  and  hosiery),  and  wood  (paper 
and  cardboard).  The  new,  nonagricultural  exports  were  to  include 
building  materials,  such  as  glass  and  ceramics;  chemicals,  such  as 
fertilizers  and  pharmaceuticals;  rubber;  agricultural  and  cold  storage 
machinery;  and  electronics,  such  as  computers  (see  fig.  11).  As  part 
of  the  reform  package,  UNIDO  also  insisted  that  credit  restrictions 
be  eased,  domestic  savings  potential  be  tapped,  and  funds  held 
abroad  by  Ivoirians  be  repatriated.  Under  pressure  from  the  World 
Bank,  the  government  cut  its  levy  on  pretax  bank  transactions  from 
25  to  15  percent. 

The  process  of  modernizing  import  substitution  industries  and 
increasing  exports  included  measures  to  reduce  the  high  level  of 


122 


ABI  Foundry,  Abidjan 
Courtesy  World  Bank  Photo  Library 

customs  protection  accorded  local  industries  and  to  extend  export 
subsidies.  In  November  1987,  the  government  began  a  five-year 
program  to  reduce  import  duties  and  surcharges  progressively  to 
an  eventual  40  percent  of  value  added  for  the  entire  industrial  sec- 
tor. In  addition,  the  government  extended  export  subsidies  to  the 
entire  manufacturing  sector  in  order  to  compensate  for  compara- 
tively high  local  production  costs  in  the  agroindustrial  sector  (oils 
and  fats,  processed  meat,  fish,  chocolate,  fruits,  and  vegetables) 
and  for  such  industrial  goods  as  textiles,  carpets,  shoes,  chemicals, 
cardboard,  construction  materials,  and  mechanical  and  electrical 
goods.  As  of  early  1988,  the  reforms  had  not  yet  yielded  the  desired 
results,  partly  because  export  subsidies  were  granted  on  an  ad  hoc 
basis  with  no  assurance  that  they  would  be  renewed  and  partly  be- 
cause the  reforms  were  financed  from  customs  receipts,  which, 
under  the  government's  pledge  to  reduce  tariff  protection,  were 
diminishing. 

Energy 
Electricity 

In  the  late  1980s,  electrical  production  in  Cote  d'lvoire  surpassed 
that  of  most  other  countries  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Its  five  hydro- 
electric stations  and  the  large  thermal  station  at  Vridi  provided 
electricity  for  the  central  and  southern  portions  of  the  country,  where 


123 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

most  industrial  activity  took  place.  In  addition,  a  number  of  smaller 
thermal  facilities  provided  electricity  for  urban  areas  scattered 
throughout  the  country.  The  number  of  urban  centers  with  elec- 
trical service  increased  rapidly  from  292  in  1975  to  620  in  1984, 
with  740  predicted  for  1990.  In  1986  total  generating  capacity 
amounted  to  1.08  gigawatts.  The  industrial  sector  consumed  1,026 
gigawatt-hours  of  high- voltage  electricity;  the  remaining  capac- 
ity was  consumed  by  more  than  350,000  low-voltage  subscrib- 
ers. 

After  independence,  Electrical  Energy  of  Ivory  Coast  (Energie 
Electrique  de  Cote  d'lvoire — EECI),  the  Ivoirian  power  company, 
had  sought  to  replace  costly  thermal  units  with  hydroelectric  power. 
The  first  two  dams,  Ayame  I  and  Ayame  II  at  Ayame,  began  gener- 
ating in  1962  and  1965,  respectively.  Following  the  rise  of  oil  prices 
on  the  world  market  in  the  early  1970s,  the  government  embarked 
upon  a  major  program  to  tap  its  considerable  hydroelectric  poten- 
tial. In  1973  the  government  commissioned  a  176-megawatt  hydro- 
electric facility  on  the  Bandama  River  at  Kossou.  The  Kossou  Dam 
project  was  by  far  the  most  expensive  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  hydro- 
electric facilities;  construction  cost  billions  of  CFA  francs,  as  did 
the  relocation  of  85,000  Baoule  farmers  from  the  region  that  was 
to  have  been  flooded  (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages,  ch.  2). 
Lake  Kossou  (Lac  de  Kossou)  was  expected  to  cover  a  surface  three 
times  the  size  of  Lake  Geneva  and  to  double  the  country's  electri- 
cal generation.  In  fact,  poor  rainfall  during  the  mid-1970s  prevented 
Lake  Kossou  from  filling  to  its  maximum  capacity,  and  Kossou 's 
output  was  far  less  than  anticipated.  With  the  return  of  normal 
rainfall  levels  in  1979,  hydroelectric  power  generation  rose  signifi- 
cantly and  permitted  a  cutback  in  oil-fired  thermal  output. 

A  second  dam,  with  a  capacity  of  210  megawatts,  was  constructed 
downriver  at  Taabo  and  was  brought  into  production  in  1979.  In 
the  west  of  the  country  on  the  Sassandra  River,  the  165-megawatt 
Buyo  Dam  was  completed  in  1980,  bringing  the  country's  total 
hydroelectric  capacity  to  600  megawatts.  By  1982  about  90  per- 
cent of  the  country's  electrical  energy  came  from  hydroelectric 
sources,  thus  reducing  significantly  the  amount  of  fuel  the  coun- 
try needed  to  import. 

A  serious  drought  in  1983  and  1984,  however,  nearly  dried  up 
the  lakes  behind  all  five  dams.  Turbines  were  shut  down,  and  the 
country  was  obliged  to  rely  once  again  on  the  thermal  power 
produced  by  its  original  210-megawatt  facility  at  Vridi  and  to  reac- 
tivate two  smaller  thermal  units  in  the  north  and  west  of  the  coun- 
try. Electrical  production  fell  by  18.3  percent,  causing  blackouts 


124 


The  Economy 


in  Abidjan  and  productivity  losses  amounting  to  35  percent  in  the 
industrial  sector. 

To  help  alleviate  the  crisis,  the  government  installed  four  thermal 
generators  at  Vridi,  financed  by  the  European  Investment  Bank  and 
the  Central  Fund  for  Economic  Cooperation  (Caisse  Centrale  pour 
la  Cooperation  Economique — CCCE).  The  four  turbogenerators 
had  a  total  capacity  of  100  megawatts  and  were  able  to  run  on  na- 
tural gas  as  well  as  fuel  oil,  enabling  EEC  I  to  tap  offshore  gas  sources 
as  they  became  available.  The  government  also  agreed  to  purchase 
178  gigawatt-hours  of  power  from  neighboring  Ghana  in  1983-84 
and  322  gigawatt-hours  in  1984-85.  Good  rains  in  1984  replenished 
the  lakes  and  allowed  EEC  I  to  reactivate  the  hydroelectric  genera- 
tors; accordingly,  thermal  production  decreased  from  78.1  percent 
of  the  total  in  1983-84  to  30.5  percent  in  1984-85. 

Other  Energy  Sources 

In  the  rural  areas,  most  of  which  were  not  serviced  by  electricity, 
wood,  in  both  its  natural  state  and  as  charcoal,  and  kerosene  were 
the  most  important  source  of  household  energy.  At  the  same  time, 
the  government  encouraged  small-scale  attempts  to  exploit  solar  and 
wind  energy.  The  French-owned  Energy  Management  Agency  used 
solar  energy  to  power  a  community  health  clinic,  and  in  the  north 
of  the  country,  wind-operated  pumps  raised  subsurface  water  for 
drinking  and  irrigation. 

Extractive  Industries 
Petroleum 

By  far  the  most  important  mineral  in  Cote  dT voire  was  petro- 
leum. Petroleum  was  first  discovered  in  the  early  1970s  on  the  con- 
tinental shelf  off  the  coast  of  Jacqueville,  west  of  Abidjan.  A  short 
time  later,  a  second  field  was  discovered  off  Grand-Bassam,  east 
of  Abidjan.  The  discovery  and  development  of  the  two  fields  coin- 
cided with  the  collapse  of  world  cocoa  and  coffee  prices  in  the  late 
1970s  and  was  seen  by  many  as  the  means  by  which  the  country 
could  continue  moving  toward  prosperity,  although  the  fields,  named 
Espoir  and  Belier,  were  relatively  small,  geologically  complex,  and 
located  in  deep  water.  The  Espoir  field  was  developed  by  United 
States-based  Phillips  Petroleum.  (PETROCI  had  a  10  percent  share.) 
Espoir  began  operations  in  August  1982  with  an  output  of  18,000 
to  20,000  barrels  per  day  (bpd — see  Glossary).  Because  of  techni- 
cal problems,  output  declined  the  following  year  to  15,000  bpd.  By 
1988  production  had  fallen  to  10,000  bpd. 

The  Belier  field,  developed  by  Exxon,  did  not  begin  producing 
oil  until  1980  because  of  technical  difficulties.  Output  reached  10,000 


125 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


rv.f 
.0 


•7 

/' 


•  Samatigla 

•  6dienn6 


Korhogo^         \  ^ 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


A 


Ferk6ss6dougou 


♦ 

"Toriiya 


)        '  ^Touba 

■"I  ^  <$  § 

^   S6gu6la  + 

=  *Biankouma 


Ni 


S  *Danan6  ^ 


Bangolom 


Bondoukou  w 


BouakS 

Si  ( 
Agnibil6krou\  ,' 
f 

<  Yamoussoukro     Abe^rouy  v 

T 1  \  5  • 

£<jc(k   Dimbokro    Bongouanou  \ 


6 

i 

♦ 


Construction,  public  works, 
and  building  materials 

Dam  and  hydro- 
generating  station 

Diesel  thermal 
generating  station 

Food  Processing 

Diamonds 
Gold 


® 

Q 

i 


Machine  construction 
and  sheet  metal 
Nickel 

Petrochemicals 

Offshore  petroleum 
deposit 

Textiles,  leather,  shoes 

Wood  Processing 


International 
boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  J. -N.  Loucou,  "Histoire,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  56-58. 


Figure  11.  Economic  Activity,  1983 


bpd  in  1981  and  then  fell  to  6,000  bpd  by  1986  in  spite  of  a  US$50 
million  investment  by  Exxon  on  a  water  injection  program  to  main- 
tain output  and  prolong  the  field's  life. 

Agip  of  Italy  and  Tenneco  of  the  United  States  drilled  explora- 
tory wells  elsewhere  along  the  coast,  but  neither  found  sufficient 
reserves  to  continue  exploration.  By  1985,  as  world  oil  prices 


126 


The  Economy 


dropped  and  projected  yields  from  Cote  d'lvoire's  fields  were 
reduced  to  more  realistic  levels,  both  Phillips  and  Exxon  had  halted 
exploratory  and  development  drilling  in  their  oil  fields.  Moreover, 
production  in  the  existing  fields  failed  to  attain  projected  output, 
and  the  government's  target  of  achieving  self-sufficiency  in  oil 
production  was  never  reached.  Total  oil  production  declined  a  fur- 
ther 5  percent  in  1986  to  less  than  20,000  bpd,  while  national  con- 
sumption exceeded  30,000  bpd.  By  the  end  of  1988,  Exxon  had 
halted  production  from  the  Belier  field  and  capped  its  wells. 

In  1965  the  Ivoirian  Refining  Company  (Societe  Ivoirienne  de 
Raffinage — SIR)  completed  construction  on  a  refinery  at  Vridi  with 
a  capacity  of  1 1 ,000  bpd  per  year.  When  petroleum  prices  surged 
in  1979,  demand  dropped  substantially,  and  output  fell  to  only  50 
percent  of  capacity.  Contracts  with  Chevron  Oil  of  the  United  States 
to  process  crude  oil  from  other  African  countries  (primarily  Nigeria) 
raised  output  to  near  capacity  and,  along  with  a  financial  recov- 
ery plan,  led  to  a  net  improvement  in  the  profitability  of  SIR.  In 
1986  capacity  was  increased  to  50,000  bpd,  making  SIR  the  major 
source  of  refined  petroleum  products  for  West  Africa.  It  also  be- 
came Cote  d'lvoire's  leading  industrial  plant  and  the  third-ranking 
enterprise  in  French-speaking  Africa,  with  revenues  surpassing  CFA 
F200  billion  in  1986. 

Natural  Gas 

The  exploratory  oil  wells  revealed  large  reserves  of  natural  gas, 
some  of  which  were  associated  with  the  oil  fields.  In  1987  estimates 
of  the  Espoir  and  Foxtrot  gas  reserves  off  the  coast  of  Abidjan 
amounted  to  3.5  billion  cubic  feet,  or  enough  to  produce  55  mil- 
lion cubic  feet  a  day  for  twenty  years.  Apart  from  reducing  the 
country's  dependence  on  fuel  oil,  the  government  sought  to  use 
the  gas  to  generate  electricity — thus  justifying  its  purchase  of  four 
large  gas-powered  turbines  during  the  drought  of  1983-84 — and 
to  produce  fertilizer.  In  late  1987,  the  government  and  Phillips 
Petroleum  were  still  trying  to  negotiate  an  acceptable  price  for  the 
gas.  Start-up  costs  for  drilling  two  producer  wells  and  construct- 
ing a  sixty-kilometer  gas  pipeline  to  the  thermal  power  station  at 
Vridi  were  estimated  at  US$150  million  in  1986. 

Other  Minerals 

Although  the  subsoil  of  Cote  d'lvoire  contained  many  other 
minerals,  none  existed  in  commercially  exploitable  amounts,  given 
the  high  costs  of  extraction.  Mining  contributed  only  1  percent  of 
GDP  in  1986. 


127 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

During  the  precolonial  era,  gold  was  extracted  from  small  shafts 
dug  into  the  earth  or  from  river  and  streambeds  and  was  traded 
at  the  coast  or  across  the  Sahara  Desert.  Efforts  under  the  colo- 
nial administration  to  exploit  gold  deposits  at  Kokoumbo  in  the 
center  of  the  country  and  at  small  mines  in  the  southeast  proved 
unprofitable.  In  1984  the  state-owned  SODEMI  and  a  French  min- 
ing company  formed  the  Ity  Mining  Company  (Societe  Miniere 
d'lty — SMI)  to  exploit  a  deposit  discovered  thirty  years  earlier  at 
Ity  near  Danane.  Total  investment  in  this  period  was  estimated  at 
CFA  Fl  .2  billion.  The  gold  ore  was  of  medium  quality,  with  a  ratio 
of  gold  to  ore  in  the  range  of  8.5  grams  per  ton.  Extraction  was 
to  begin  in  1987,  with  output  anticipated  at  700  kilograms  of  gold 
metal  during  the  first  two  years  of  operation.  Ity  estimated  an  ad- 
ditional investment  of  CFA  F2.3  billion  to  expand  output  to  700 
kilograms  of  gold  metal  a  year.  SODEMI  also  located  gold  deposits 
in  the  region  of  Issia  and  in  the  Lobo  River  bed,  with  anticipated 
annual  yields  of  100  kilograms  and  25  kilograms,  respectively. 

In  the  mid-1970s,  low-grade  deposits  (less  than  50  percent)  of 
iron  ore  estimated  at  585  million  tons  were  assayed  at  Bangolo  near 
the  Liberian  border.  A  consortium  representing  Japanese,  French, 
British,  American,  Dutch,  and  Ivoirian  interests  was  formed  to 
exploit  the  deposits;  however,  depressed  world  prices  for  iron  ore 
forced  the  participants  to  postpone  the  project  indefinitely. 

Following  World  War  II,  diamond  mining  seemed  promising, 
but  by  the  mid-1980s  expectations  had  waned.  The  Tortiya  dia- 
mond mine,  operating  since  1948,  peaked  in  1972  when  260,000 
carats  were  mined.  In  1980,  however,  the  mine  was  closed.  The 
Bobi  mine  near  Seguela  produced  270,000  carats  per  year  until 
the  late  1970s;  it  was  closed  in  1979.  Remaining  reserves  for  Tortiya 
were  estimated  at  450,000  carats;  for  Bobi,  150,000  carats. 

Between  1960  and  1966,  manganese  mines  in  the  region  of 
Grand-Lahou  on  the  coast  yielded  180,000  tons  of  ore  per  year. 
In  1970,  after  world  market  prices  had  dropped  and  production 
costs  had  risen,  the  mines  were  closed.  There  were  additional  un- 
exploited  managanese  deposits  near  Odienne.  Cote  dTvoire  also 
had  small  deposits  of  Colombo- tantalite,  ilmenite,  cobalt,  copper, 
nickel,  and  bauxite. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Following  independence,  the  government  invested  heavily  in 
infrastructure  to  transport  the  country's  major  export  products. 
The  relatively  well-developed  transport  infrastructure  was  believed 
to  be  instrumental  in  the  spectacular  growth  of  the  country's 
economy  between  1960  and  1979.  In  1986  the  transport  network 


128 


Dam  on  the  Biya  at  Ayame 
Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 

included  more  than  53,736  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which  some  3,765 
kilometers  were  paved;  660  kilometers  of  railroads;  two  major 
seaports;  980  kilometers  of  navigable  inland  waterways  (primarily 
lagoons  because  the  country's  rivers  were  not  navigable);  3  inter- 
national airports;  13  major  domestic  airfields;  17  smaller  regional 
airfields;  and  50  private  airfields  (see  fig.  12). 

Railroads 

Construction  on  the  Abidjan-Niger  Railroad  (Regie  du  Chemin 
de  Fer  Abidjan-Niger — RAN)  began  in  1905  and  continued  through 
1954.  The  single,  one-meter- gauge  track  extended  northward  from 
Abidjan  through  Ferkessedougou  into  Burkina  Faso  and  terminated 
at  Ouagadougou.  Its  total  length,  including  the  portion  in  Burkina 
Faso,  was  1,180  kilometers.  Through  the  early  post-World  War  II 
period,  the  RAN  contributed  significantly  to  the  development  of 
agriculture  and  forestry  in  the  southeast  and  central  regions  of  the 
country.  Following  the  opening  of  the  Abidjan  port  in  1950  and  the 
upgrading  and  expansion  of  the  road  network,  the  RAN  became 
primarily  a  long-distance  hauler.  Except  for  points  located  directly 
on  the  rail  route  and  for  bulk  transport,  rail  transport  was  no  longer 
important  to  the  south  and  to  the  center  of  the  country.  Neverthe- 
less, the  RAN  was  still  considered  crucial  to  economic  development 
in  the  north;  accordingly,  new  industries  were  situated  along  the 
rail  line. 


129 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


The  RAN  was  also  important  to  the  landlocked  countries  to  the 
north.  At  one  time,  it  carried  90  percent  of  Burkina  Faso's  foreign 
trade  and  half  of  the  50  percent  of  Mali's  foreign  trade  that  passed 
(via  Bobo  Dioulasso  in  Burkina  Faso)  through  the  seaport  of 
Abidjan. 

In  the  1980s,  economic  recession  in  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Burkina 
Faso,  and  political  instability  in  the  latter,  confronted  the  RAN  with 
financial  and  administrative  problems,  deteriorating  equipment,  and 
debt.  These  problems  were  caused  in  part  because  Burkina  Faso 
did  not  pay  its  bills  for  five  years,  accumulating  arrears  amounting 
to  CFA  F17  billion.  For  political  and  economic  reasons,  the  two 
countries  agreed  to  liquidate  the  RAN  and  divide  its  assets,  esti- 
mated in  1987  to  be  CFA  F78  billion  in  rolling  stock,  railroad  sta- 
tions, buildings,  and  land. 

Cote  d'lvoire  had  planned  to  construct  a  350-kilometer  railroad 
to  link  the  port  city  of  San-Pedro  with  iron  ore  deposits  near  Bongolo 
in  the  west-central  region  of  the  country.  But  because  prices  in  the 
1980s  for  iron  ore  were  low,  the  government  scrapped  plans  to  ex- 
ploit the  deposits  and  build  the  railroad,  which  would  have  cost 
an  estimated  CFA  F80  billion  in  1986. 

Roads 

As  the  demand  for  Cote  d'lvoire's  exports  increased  in  the  1960s 
and  1970s,  the  government  improved  the  road  network  dramati- 
cally. From  25,000  kilometers  of  roads  in  1961,  the  network  ex- 
panded by  1986  to  53,765  kilometers,  of  which  3,765  were  paved, 
including  141  kilometers  of  divided  highway.  Paved  roads  linked 
Abidjan  with  all  major  population  centers  in  the  country,  and 
although  they  constituted  only  7  percent  of  the  total  road  network, 
they  carried  approximately  70  percent  of  the  traffic.  Roads  were 
the  principal  mode  of  domestic  transport,  carrying  about  78  per- 
cent of  interurban  passenger  traffic  and  70  percent  of  freight  traffic. 
In  Abidjan,  as  elsewhere  in  the  country,  traffic  growth  was  rapid, 
expanding  10  percent  per  year  for  passenger  traffic  and  7  percent 
per  year  for  freight  traffic  from  1970  to  1980.  In  1986  a  daily  average 
of  14,000  vehicles  entered  and  left  Abidjan,  as  opposed  to  an  average 
of  4,800  vehicles  in  1969. 

A  1969  World  Bank  transportation  survey  strongly  recommended 
improvements  to  the  primary  road  network  during  the  1970s.  Over 
the  first  five  years  of  the  plan,  inadequate  planning  and  a  lack  of 
overall  policy  coordination  and  evaluation  resulted  in  gross  over- 
spending. Although  75  percent  of  the  road  projects  originally 
proposed  were  implemented,  they  cost  123  percent  more  than  the 
amount  earmarked  to  pay  for  the  entire  program.  Nevertheless, 


130 


The  Economy 


highway  construction  did  not  abate.  In  1986  the  World  Bank  ap- 
proved a  US$40  million  loan  as  part  of  a  US$230  million  highway 
construction  and  improvement  program,  described  as  the  "quickest 
way  to  inject  money  into  the  economy  and  affect  all  sectors."  For 
the  same  year,  the  BSIE  earmarked  CFA  F39.4  billion  for  high- 
way construction  and  improvement. 

Ports  and  Maritime  Shipping 

Cote  d'lvoire  has  no  natural,  sheltered  deep  water  harbors.  Until 
1950  all  imports  had  to  be  offloaded  at  sea  onto  lighters  that  either 
crossed  the  surf  and  landed  on  a  beach  or,  as  at  Grand-Bassam 
and  Sassandra,  unloaded  at  a  wharf  that  extended  beyond  the  surf. 
In  1950  the  2. 7 -kilometer  Vridi  Canal,  which  cut  through  the  bar- 
rier island  south  of  Abidjan,  was  completed,  linking  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea  with  the  Ebrie  Lagoon.  Until  port  facilities  at  Abidjan  were 
completed,  lighters  were  still  required  to  unload  cargo,  but  by  1955 
all  port  operations  were  handled  at  dockside. 

By  the  1970s,  Abidjan  was  the  largest  port  in  West  Africa.  The 
amount  of  cargo  handled  grew  from  5  million  tons  in  1970  to  9.5 
million  tons  in  1986,  a  large  proportion  of  which  was  container- 
ized. Abidjan  had  5,485  meters  of  quays  representing  35  berths, 
105,000  square  meters  of  warehouse  space,  a  quay  with  refrigera- 
tion installations  for  the  fishing  industry,  and  twelve  specialized 
quays  for  bananas,  fish,  timber,  cement,  hydrocarbons,  tankers, 
and  roll-on  roll-off  cargo  operations.  In  1987  the  government  en- 
larged the  Abidjan  port,  adding  two  new  quays  in  Locodjo  across 
the  lagoon  from  the  city. 

To  stimulate  development  in  the  southwest  and  reduce  the  cost 
of  transporting  raw  materials  to  Abidjan,  the  government  con- 
structed a  second  deepwater  port  at  San-Pedro.  The  San-Pedro 
project,  which  represented  a  major  governmental  effort  to  exploit 
the  timber,  cocoa,  coffee,  rubber,  and  palm  oil  production  planned 
for  the  southwest  and  the  iron  ore  mines  farther  north,  included 
road  building  and  development  of  an  urban  infrastructure.  The 
port  with  two  large  quays  began  operating  in  1971,  but  because 
the  iron  ore  project  was  dropped  and  timber  production  for  the 
region  was  less  than  the  amount  anticipated,  the  San-Pedro  port 
handled  far  less  than  its  planned  capacity.  In  1984  cargo  amounted 
to  approximately  1.3  million  tons,  or  14  percent  of  all  maritime 
commerce.  In  1984  Abidjan  and  San-Pedro  handled  a  total  of  9.7 
million  tons  of  cargo. 

Cote  dT voire  had  two  merchant  marine  companies  flying  the 
national  flag:  SITRAM  and  the  Ivoirian  Maritime  Navigation 


131 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


MALI 


BURKINA 
FASO 


GUINEA  > 


Odiennt 


Korhogo 


Bounajk-v_J> 


\ 


r 


.Seguela 


*^  Danane 

m 

LIBERIA 


,  Man 


Yamoussoukro 


IGagnoa 


Abengourou 


lAdzope 


Sassandra 
-^San-Pedro 


(julf  of  guinea 


A 


Atlantic  Ocean 

Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


 International  boundary  _ 

®       National  capital 
•       Populated  place 
0         50       100  Kilometers 

0  50  100  Miles 


  Road 

"  Railroad 
4*  Airport 
J,       Major  port 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  J. -N.  Loucou,  "Histoire,"  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire  (2d  ed.),  Paris,  1983,  59-61. 


Figure  12.  Transportation  System,  1988 


Company  (Societe  Ivoirienne  de  Navigation  Maritime — 
SIVOMAR),  with  a  combined  total  of  twenty  cargo  ships.  The 
former  company  was  state  owned;  the  latter  was  privately  owned. 

Air  Transport 

In  the  1980s,  the  Abidjan-Port  Bouet  International  Airport,  situ- 
ated on  the  outskirts  of  Abidjan,  was  one  of  the  most  active  in  Africa, 
handling  more  than  1  million  passengers  each  year.  It  had  two 


132 


The  Economy 


runways  more  than  3,000  meters  in  length  and  could  handle  all 
large  carriers,  as  could  the  airports  at  Bouake  and  Yamoussoukro. 
There  were  also  thirty  public  airports  serving  the  major  towns  and 
approximately  fifty  private  airfields.  Air  I  voire,  the  state  airline, 
also  known  as  Ivoirian  Air  Transport  and  Liaison  (Groupement 
Aerien  de  Transport  et  de  Liaison — GATL),  handled  air  traffic 
within  the  country  and  also  flew  to  neighboring  countries.  Air 
Afrique,  a  multinational  consortium  formed  by  ten  francophone 
African  countries  and  headquartered  in  Abidjan,  was  the  major 
carrier  for  international  traffic  serving  Cote  dT voire.  Air  Afrique 's 
major  competitors  were  Air  France  and  the  Air  Transport  Union 
(Union  des  Transports  Aeriens — UTA),  a  private  French-owned 
carrier.  Other  carriers  from  Europe  and  the  United  States  also 
provided  regular  service. 

Telecommunications 

Telecommunications,  like  so  many  other  areas,  reflected  Cote 
dTvoire's  colonial  heritage.  Thus,  251  telephone  circuits  linked  Cote 
dTvoire  with  France,  and  29  linked  it  with  Senegal,  the  former 
colonial  seat  for  French  West  Africa  (Afrique  Occidentale  Fran- 
chise— OAF;  see  Glossary).  No  circuits  linked  Cote  d'lvoire  directly 
with  its  immediate  neighbors.  An  INTELSAT  ground  satellite  sta- 
tion located  east  of  Abidjan  provided  links  to  the  United  States, 
Europe,  and  other  African  countries.  In  addition,  the  government 
planned  by  1990  to  lay  a  submarine  cable  linking  Cote  dTvoire 
with  Senegal,  Guinea,  Liberia,  and  Gambia. 

In  1984  there  were  87,700  installed  telephone  lines  in  the  coun- 
try, or  1.3  telephones  per  100  people.  Only  45  percent  of  the  tele- 
phones were  working  at  any  one  time  because  of  technical  problems, 
however,  so  actual  users  of  telephone  service  numbered  59,247. 
In  1986  Abidjan  had  67.9  percent  of  the  total  number  of  telephone 
lines  in  the  country,  or  one  telephone  per  50  inhabitants  compared 
with  one  telephone  per  430  inhabitants  in  the  interior  of  the  coun- 
try. At  the  end  of  1986,  outside  of  Abidjan  115  cities  had  telephone 
service,  of  which  44  were  equipped  with  automatic  installations. 
The  government  intended  to  construct  a  network  of  satellite  earth 
stations  in  the  interior  in  early  1990;  the  network  would  improve 
rural  telephone  service  dramatically.  Meanwhile,  the  military, 
government  offices,  and  some  businesses  used  radio  commu- 
nications, which  were  the  responsibility  of  the  National  Tele- 
communications Bureau  (Office  National  de  Telecommunications — 
ONT). 

As  of  the  mid-1980s,  ONT  was  beset  with  problems  in  spite 
of  its  new  US$35  million  headquarters.  It  suffered  from  traffic 


133 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


congestion,  a  poor  call-completion  rate  (as  few  as  50  percent,  30 
percent,  and  20  percent  for  urban,  interurban,  and  international 
call  attempts,  respectively);  poor  billing  and  collections  (accounts 
receivable  amounted  to  twelve  months'  receipts,  or  CFA  F31  bil- 
lion); an  inadequate  tariff  structure;  and  lack  of  oversight. 
Moreover,  the  ONT  often  bought  sophisticated  technology  that 
ended  up  increasing  rather  than  reducing  maintenance  costs. 

In  1982  the  postal  service  handled  59,861 ,000  pieces  of  mail  and 
581,000  telegrams,  or  approximately  6  pieces  per  capita.  There 
were  1,181  telex  subscriber  lines. 

Foreign  Trade  and  Commerce 

At  independence,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  strong  economic  and  politi- 
cal ties  with  France.  In  contrast  with  nearly  all  other  former  French 
colonies  in  Africa,  the  government  of  Cote  d'lvoire  continued  to 
cultivate  these  links  into  the  late  1980s,  some  twenty  years  after 
France  had  suspended  tariff  preferences  for  major  Ivoirian  exports. 
By  the  1980s,  however,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  found  supplemen- 
tary trading  partners  and  sources  of  foreign  investment,  primarily 
among  France's  neighbors  in  the  European  Economic  Commu- 
nity (EEC). 

Between  1960  and  1974,  the  value  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  exports  to 
EEC  countries  more  than  doubled,  while  the  value  of  its  exports 
to  France  was  halved.  Although  this  trend  continued  into  the  1980s, 
French  exports  to  Cote  d'lvoire  remained  important  because  most 
of  the  Ivoirian  import  substitution  industries  were  either  linked  to, 
or  otherwise  dependent  on,  French  parent  companies. 

In  1986  Cote  d'lvoire's  principal  markets  for  exports  were  France 
and  the  United  States,  which  together  purchased  approximately 
one- third  of  its  total  exports  (see  table  6,  Appendix).  West  Ger- 
many was  the  third  largest  export  market,  having  overtaken  Italy 
in  1985.  France,  which  provided  one-third  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  im- 
ports, was  by  far  the  largest  supplier.  The  United  States  and  the 
Netherlands  each  supplied  about  5  percent  of  the  country's  im- 
ports. 

After  cocoa  and  coffee,  Cote  d'lvoire's  principal  exports  were 
timber  and  processed  wood,  cotton  and  textiles,  sugar,  rubber,  palm 
oil,  pineapple,  and  other  agricultural  and  manufactured  goods.  Its 
principal  imports  were  manufactured  goods,  food,  petroleum  prod- 
ucts, machinery,  and  transport  equipment. 

Balance  of  Payments  and  Foreign  Assistance 

Between  1950  and  1975,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  far  fewer  problems 
with  its  balance  of  payments  than  did  most  other  African  states 


134 


Crossing  the  Comoe  River 
Courtesy  Robert  Handloff 

(see  table  7,  Appendix).  Exports  increased  at  a  faster  rate  than  the 
gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary),  with  real  expansion 
averaging  9  percent  per  year  from  1962  to  1975.  Until  1978  the 
balance  of  trade  was  invariably  positive.  Export  earnings  from  coffee 
and  cocoa  rose  consistendy  as  production  grew,  and  earnings  surged 
when  world  market  prices  for  coffee  and  cocoa  increased.  In  the 
boom  period  from  1974  to  1977,  export  earnings  soared,  peaking 
in  1977  with  a  record  trade  surplus  of  almost  CFA  F100  billion. 

In  1979  lower  prices  for  coffee  and  cocoa,  coupled  with  higher 
prices  for  imports,  especially  crude  oil,  sharply  cut  the  trade  sur- 
plus to  what  was  then  an  unprecedented  CFA  F1.880  billion.  In 
subsequent  years,  as  the  volume  of  exports  rose  (notwithstanding 
weaker  coffee  and  cocoa  prices)  and  as  government-iimposed 
austerity  measures  cut  imports,  trade  surplus  figures  stabilized  at 
about  CFA  F30  billion  a  year. 

National  Debt 

To  finance  its  development  projects — given  the  paucity  of  domes- 
tic capital — Cote  dT voire  borrowed  substantial  amounts  abroad, 
especially  during  the  mid-1970s.  At  that  time,  high  prices  for  coffee 
and  cocoa  led  Ivoirian  planners  to  overestimate  the  potential  of 
the  economy  and,  consequently,  undertake  overly  ambitious  capital 
investment  programs.  By  1976  Cote  d'lvoire's  high  debt  payments, 


135 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


together  with  repatriated  profits  and  foreign  worker  remittances, 
produced  a  negative  net  reserve  position  for  the  first  time  in  its 
history,  despite  continuing  trade  surpluses. 

Following  the  drought  and  recession  of  the  early  1980s,  exter- 
nal debt  rose  even  more  sharply,  reaching  US$9.8  billion  in 
1985 — about  triple  the  level  of  five  years  earlier  and  more  than 
three-quarters  of  the  annual  GNP  (see  table  8,  Appendix).  By  1981 
total  debt  service  amounted  to  about  US$1  billion.  Between  1978 
and  1983,  the  ratio  of  debt  service  to  export  earnings  rose  from 
13  percent  to  31  percent. 

Since  the  early  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  engaged  in  a  series  of 
foreign  debt  rescheduling  exercises  with  both  private  and  public 
creditors.  Faced  with  falling  commodity  prices  and  recession,  Cote 
d'lvoire  asked  to  reschedule  its  debt  with  Paris  Club  donors;  the 
request  was  granted  in  May  1984.  By  the  terms  of  the  reschedul- 
ing agreement,  all  payments  on  principal  and  half  the  interest  pay- 
ments due  that  year  would  be  spread  over  nine  years,  with  a 
four-year  grace  period.  The  London  Club  of  commercial  creditors 
also  rescheduled  the  US$775  million  in  interest  and  principal  due 
in  1984  and  US$420  million  due  in  1985.  In  addition,  the  country 
obtained  new  credits  equivalent  to  US$176  million,  contingent  upon 
enactment  of  a  retrenchment  program  approved  by  the  IMF  that 
limited  government  spending  and  foreign  borrowing. 

As  economic  conditions  improved  in  early  1985,  the  government 
signaled  its  intent  to  assume  its  full  debt  service  burden  in  1986 
rather  than  negotiate  a  second  London  Club  rescheduling  agree- 
ment. At  World  Bank  and  IMF  urging,  however,  Cote  d'lvoire 
in  August  1985  arranged  a  multiyear  rescheduling  package  with 
its  foreign  creditors  that  would  allow  the  country  renewed  access 
to  commercial  capital  markets  while  phasing  in  debt  rescheduling 
over  the  next  five  years.  The  IMF  approved  a  US$66.2  million 
standby  agreement  loan  that  was  followed  in  September  by  a  US$30 
million  World  Bank  loan  to  finance  technical  assistance  in  support 
of  an  industrial  reform  program.  Earlier,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  adopted 
a  World  Bank  industrial  sector  reform  plan,  resulting  in  strong 
World  Bank  support  for  the  country  in  its  negotiations  with  pri- 
vate and  bilateral  creditors.  This  multiyear  debt  rescheduling  exer- 
cise was  the  first  of  its  kind  in  Africa  and  was  intended  to  allow 
the  country  to  "grow  out  of"  its  debt  crisis. 

By  1987,  when  Cote  d'lvoire  was  to  start  payments  on  the  first 
installment  on  the  debt  that  it  rescheduled  in  1984  and  that  then 
totaled  approximately  US$8  billion,  the  economy  had  not  improved. 
The  continuing  decline  in  coffee  and  cocoa  prices,  which  Houphouet- 
Boigny  blamed  on  American  and  European  speculators,  cut  export 


136 


The  Economy 


earnings  by  an  estimated  CFA  F180  billion.  At  the  time,  the  IMF 
projected  a  US$81 1  million  current  accounts  deficit  for  1987.  The 
IMF  also  projected  debt  servicing  costs  for  1988  of  US$1.4  billion — 
roughly  two-thirds  of  the  national  budget — as  compared  with  the 
1987  cost  of  US$1.5  billion.  Payment  was  clearly  out  of  reach.  In 
May  1987,  the  government  announced  that  it  would  suspend  pay- 
ment on  its  foreign  debt. 

The  May  1987  decision  to  suspend  foreign  debt  payments  placed 
Cote  dT voire  in  the  high-risk  category  for  some  trading  partners 
and  potential  investors,  even  though  the  move  was  explained  by 
Ivoirian  officials  as  simply  a  political  maneuver  to  win  a  fairer  deal 
for  Cote  dT  voire  and  other  African  debtors.  Nevertheless,  by  the 
end  of  1987  the  Paris  Club,  the  IMF,  and  the  government  had 
negotiated  a  new  economic  recovery  and  structural  adjustment  pro- 
gram. The  new  package  granted  Cote  dT  voire  a  six-year  grace 
period  and  rescheduled  all  principal  due  in  1987-88  plus  80  per- 
cent of  interest  due  (approximately  US$500  million).  Earlier,  the 
World  Bank  had  agreed  to  release  the  second  US$150  million  in- 
stallment of  a  US$250  million  structural  adjustment  loan  originally 
approved  by  its  board  in  mid-1986.  Finally,  disbursement  of  an 
IMF  structural  adjustment  credit  and  a  compensatory  financing 
facility  worth  approximately  US$235.8  million  awaited  the  out- 
come of  the  London  Club  negotiations. 

The  IMF  further  warned  the  government  that  unless  it  lowered 
producer  prices,  it  would  face  severe  and  persistent  budget  deficits 
for  the  foreseeable  future.  Although  Houphouet-Boigny  had  de- 
clared that  producer  prices  would  not  be  reduced,  CSSPPA  offi- 
cials conceded  that  some  modification  of  producer  prices  was  under 
consideration.  The  pricing  formula  being  studied  was  similar  to 
that  applied  in  Cameroon,  where  prices  reflected  both  the  quality 
of  a  producer's  crop  and  the  previous  year's  commodity  earnings. 

For  its  part,  the  government  reduced  by  20  percent  the  1988  cap- 
ital spending  budget  from  about  CFA  F179  billion  in  1987  to  CFA 
F144  billion  to  satisfy  the  IMF's  recommendation  for  a  more  rigor- 
ous selection  of  investment  projects.  At  the  same  time,  the  govern- 
ment rejected  IMF  demands  to  increase  income  taxes,  limit  family 
allowances,  and  cut  guaranteed  prices  to  farmers,  claiming  that 
such  measures  would  jeopardize  political  and  social  stability. 

Foreign  Assistance 

As  a  middle-income  developing  country,  Cote  d'lvoire  found 
it  easier  to  borrow  from  private  commercial  sources  than  from  multi- 
lateral and  bilateral  financial  institutions,  which  lent  primarily  to 
the  poorest  countries.  More  than  two-thirds  of  its  foreign  debt  was 


137 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

owed  to  commercial  lending  agencies.  Nevertheless,  the  govern- 
ment borrowed  substantial  sums  from  Paris  Club  donors.  From 
1981  to  1984,  net  official  development  assistance  from  Western 
countries  and  from  multilateral  agencies  averaged  US$136.4  mil- 
lion per  year.  This  figure  increased  in  the  mid-1980s  as  multilateral 
donors,  particularly  the  World  Bank,  financed  the  various  struc- 
tural readjustment  programs.  In  1986  the  World  Bank  financed 
five  programs  amounting  to  US$340. 1  million,  and  by  the  end  of 
that  year  it  had  loaned  Cote  d'lvoire  about  US$1.8  billion  in  a 
series  of  forty-nine  operations,  including  three  structural  adjust- 
ment loans  that  totaled  US$600  million.  Other  sources  of  multi- 
lateral aid  in  1985  were  the  African  Development  Bank  (US$124.4 
million),  the  European  Development  Fund  (US$15.5  million),  and 
the  Council  of  the  Entente  (Conseil  de  l'Entente;  US$375  million). 

France  was  the  most  important  bilateral  aid  donor.  French 
assistance  was  channeled  through  the  CCCE  and  the  Aid  and  Co- 
operation Fund  (Fond  d'Aide  et  de  Cooperation — FAC).  After 
France,  Canada  and  West  Germany  were  the  largest  donors,  pro- 
viding US$7.7  million  and  US$8.7  million,  respectively,  in  1985. 

Future  of  the  Economy 

The  debt  rescheduling  and  structural  adjustment  program  nego- 
tiated in  1988  afforded  Cote  d'lvoire  a  respite  from  burdensome 
debt  repayment.  Nevertheless,  the  country's  economic  future  re- 
mained cloudy.  Timber  production,  which  at  other  times  sustained 
the  economy  when  coffee  and  cocoa  prices  were  weak,  was  manifest- 
ing the  stark  effects  of  overcutting.  Houphouet-Boigny's  refusal 
to  cut  producer  prices  for  cocoa  guaranteed  continuing  high  levels 
of  production  and  low  prices  on  world  markets  because  Cote 
d'lvoire  was  the  world's  leading  cocoa  producer.  To  diversify  its 
economy,  the  country  turned  to  other  agricultural  products  like 
palm  and  coconut  oils,  tropical  fruits,  sugar,  cotton,  and  rubber. 
In  none  of  these  products,  however,  did  the  country  have  as  com- 
manding position  as  it  did  with  coffee  or  cocoa.  Moreover,  the  mar- 
ket in  tropical  oils  faced  a  potential  threat  as  health-conscious 
consumers  in  the  United  States  demanded  substitutes  thought  to 
be  lower  in  saturated  fats  than  were  palm  and  coconut  oils.  For 
many  of  the  other  diversification  crops,  particularly  sugar,  world 
supply  already  surpassed  demand,  and  Cote  d'lvoire  would  be  com- 
peting with  other  Third  World  tropical  countries  similarly  seek- 
ing to  diversify  economies  heretofore  dependent  on  coffee  and  cocoa. 
Finally,  although  the  retrenchments  mandated  by  the  IMF  affected 
all  income  groups  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  they  most  visibly  affected  the 
young  and  poor,  giving  rise  to  crime,  drug  problems,  and  other 


138 


The  Economy 


manifestations  of  social  dislocation,  all  of  which  demanded  addi- 
tional expenditures  from  the  government.  In  1987  government 
revenue  losses  from  customs  fraud  alone,  especially  in  the  textiles 
sector,  were  estimated  at  approximately  CFA  F200  billion  (US$701 
million)  per  year — or  about  one-third  of  the  national  budget.  The 
path  out  of  this  downward  spiral  had  yet  to  be  discovered. 

*    *  * 

Because  of  its  apparently  remarkable  performance,  especially 
in  comparison  to  the  economies  of  nearly  all  other  sub-Saharan 
African  countries,  the  economy  of  Cote  dT voire  has  a  rich  bib- 
liography. General  reference  works  like  Europa's4/^£0  South  of  the 
Sahara,  African  Contemporary  Record,  and  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World 
provide  important  guidance.  Articles  and  monographs  by  schol- 
ars such  as  Samir  Amin,  Bonnie  Campbell,  Michael  A.  Cohen, 
Lawrence  R.  Alschuler,  I.  William  Zartman,  and  Y.-A.  Faure  pro- 
vide insightful,  relevant,  and  sometimes  highly  critical  analyses  of 
Ivoirian  economic  growth.  More  detailed  information  has  appeared 
in  publications  of  international  development  organizations  like  the 
World  Bank  and  various  agencies  of  the  United  Nations.  Publica- 
tions of  the  government  of  Cote  dT  voire  and  its  agencies  are  also 
helpful.  Several  periodicals  provide  current  information,  particu- 
larly on  debt  negotiations.  These  include  Africa  Research  Bulletin, 
Africa  Economic  Digest,  Bulletin  de  VAfrique  noire,  Marches  tropicaux  et 
mediterraneens,  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  Country  Report,  West 
Africa,  and  Jeune  Afrique.  (For  further  information  and  complete  ci- 
tations, see  Bibliography.) 


139 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Akan  chief  with  his  official  regalia 


THE  FIRST  POSTINDEPENDENCE  regimes  of  sub-Saharan 
Africa  were  characterized  by  some  form  of  personal  rule.  In  the- 
ory, such  regimes  would  govern  during  the  transition  period  fol- 
lowing independence  but  preceding  the  full  development  of  the 
governing  institutions  of  the  newly  independent  states.  In  reality, 
however,  the  leaders  of  the  various  independence  movements,  who 
subsequently  had  become  government  officials,  often  manipulated 
public  resources,  acquired  vast  wealth  and  status,  and  generally 
consolidated  their  hold  on  power.  Where  the  transitional  systems 
acquired  legitimacy,  as  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  it  was  almost  entirely  the 
result  of  the  ability  of  the  leader-politician,  in  the  absence  of  strong 
governing  institutions,  to  provide  adequate  material  and  political 
rewards  to  a  broader  constituency. 

In  1988  governance  in  Cote  d'lvoire  remained  the  province  of 
one  man:  President  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny,  affectionately  called 
le  vieux  (the  old  man).  He  had  ruled  since  independence  and  had 
dominated  Ivoirian  politics  since  the  stirrings  of  nationalism  in  the 
mid- 1940s.  From  the  onset  of  his  tenure  in  1960,  debate  was  vir- 
tually suspended  as  Houphouet-Boigny  subjected  the  polity  to  his 
paternalistic  yet  stern  control.  He  wielded  executive  power  as  head 
of  state,  head  of  government,  head  of  the  ruling  party,  and  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces.  In  his  role  as  head  of  govern- 
ment, he  appointed  his  cabinet  (Council  of  Ministers),  named  the 
chief  justice  of  the  Supreme  Court,  and  selected  the  heads  of  all 
extragovernmental  commissions  and  councils.  As  head  of  state,  he 
formulated  and  conducted  foreign  policy.  As  head  of  the  party, 
he  set  policy  directions  and  appointed  the  entire  membership  of 
all  policy-making  boards.  Although  there  were  occasions  when 
popular  sentiment  as  expressed  through  party  organs  or  the  Na- 
tional Assembly  forced  the  president  to  alter  a  policy  decision,  he 
was  without  question  the  dominant  political  force. 

Houphouet-Boigny' s  charisma  contributed  to  the  myth  of 
Houphouetism,  as  his  ruling  style  was  labeled,  enabling  him  to 
convert  the  skeptics  and  awe  the  faithful.  In  spite  of  his  power, 
Houphouet-Boigny' s  style  of  rule  was  by  choice  paternalistic. 
Houphouet-Boigny  became  a  transcendent  symbol  of  unity  to  the 
disparate  groups  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  and  his  charismatic  author- 
ity supplanted  the  traditional  authority  of  the  local  chiefs.  Al- 
though Houphouet-Boigny' s  hold  on  the  national  imagination  was 


143 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


weakening  by  the  late  1980s,  many  Ivoirians  continued  to  reject 
out  of  hand  any  reports  of  the  president's  avarice  or  violations  of 
trust. 

To  repay  his  supporters  with  adequate  material  rewards, 
Houphouet-Boigny  developed  economic  policies  that  combined  free 
enterprise  and  state  capitalism  with  liberal  foreign  investment  and 
continued  economic  dependence  on  France.  Houphouet-Boigny' s 
strategy  for  development  also  led  to  a  broad  gap  in  wealth  and  power 
between  the  urban  elite — the  rulers — and  the  rest  of  the  population. 

As  a  measure  of  Houphouet-Boigny' s  success,  liberal  economic 
theorists  and  conservative  students  of  African  politics  cited  Cote 
d'lvoire  as  an  economic  and  political  miracle.  Indeed,  through  1979 
Cote  d'lvoire  posted  one  of  the  highest  rates  of  economic  growth 
among  all  developing  countries,  and  the  highest  per  capita  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  of  any  nonpetroleum- 
exporting  African  country.  Coupled  with  the  rapid  rate  of  growth 
was  a  political  stability  unparalleled  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Un- 
like most  of  his  counterparts  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  resisted  pressures  to  sever  ties  with  the  colonizing  power 
(France)  or  to  Africanize  the  bureaucracy,  two  steps  that,  when 
taken  in  other  former  colonies,  usually  meant  reduced  funds  for 
investment  and  expanded  opportunities  for  corruption.  He  also 
resisted  pressure  to  subsidize  large  industrial  projects  with  revenues 
from  cash  crops.  Instead,  he  relied  on  foreign — mostly  French — 
investment,  technology,  and  support  to  develop  the  country's  eco- 
nomic base  and  administrative  infrastructure. 

Under  Houphouet-Boigny' s  administration,  Cote  dTvoire's  for- 
eign policy  was  consistently  pro- Western.  Its  fundamental  objec- 
tive was  to  promote  economic  development  at  home  by  promising 
peace  and  security  within  West  Africa.  Cote  d'lvoire  also  main- 
tained extensive  economic  and  military  ties  with  France,  even 
though  this  meant  bearing  the  neocolonialist  label.  Diplomatic  re- 
lations with  the  United  States,  if  less  substantial,  were  also  warm. 
For  instance,  Cote  d'lvoire  was  sub-Saharan  Africa's  staunchest 
supporter  of  the  United  States  in  the  United  Nations.  Matching 
the  strength  of  its  support  for  the  West  was  Cote  dTvoire's  dis- 
trust of  the  Soviet  Union.  Cote  d'lvoire  did  not  establish  diplo- 
matic relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  until  1967,  severed  them  in 
early  1969  amid  accusations  of  Soviet  subversion,  and  did  not 
reestablish  them  until  1986,  as  part  of  Houphouet-Boigny 's  quest 
for  international  stature.  Houphouet-Boigny  also  broke  with  most 
other  African  leaders  by  attempting  to  establish  a  dialogue  with 
South  Africa  and,  in  1986,  by  reestablishing  diplomatic  relations, 
which  had  been  broken  following  the  October  1973  War,  with  Israel. 


144 


Mural  honoring  President  Felix  Houphou'et-Boigny 

Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 

Formal  Power 
The  Constitution 

On  October  31,  1960,  the  National  Assembly  of  Cote  d'lvoire 
adopted  the  Constitution  establishing  an  independent  republic.  The 
1960  Constitution  calls  for  a  strong,  centralized  presidential  sys- 
tem with  an  independent  judiciary  and  a  national  legislature. 

As  in  much  of  the  Ivoirian  political  system,  French  influence 
weighed  heavily  in  the  preparation  of  the  Constitution.  Houphouet- 
Boigny  and  its  other  authors  had  received  much  of  their  formal 
political  education  and  experience  in  France,  and  Houphouet- 
Boigny  himself  had  served  in  successive  French  governments  in 
the  1950s.  Not  unexpectedly,  the  1960  Constitution  was  largely 
taken  (often  verbatim)  from  the  1958  Constitution  of  the  Fifth 
Republic  of  France.  Like  its  French  counterpart,  the  Ivoirian  Con- 
stitution declares  that  all  power  derives  from  the  people  and  is  ex- 
pressed through  universal  suffrage.  It  also  mandates  the  separation 
of  executive  and  legislative  authority  with  limits  on  the  power  of 
the  former. 

In  its  preamble,  the  Constitution  proclaims  its  dedication  to  lib- 
eral democratic  principles  and  inalienable  human  rights  as  expressed 
in  the  1789  Declaration  of  the  Rights  of  Man  and  of  the  Citizen 
and  the  1948  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Under  the 


145 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

rubric  "Of  the  State  and  Sovereignty,"  the  initial  articles  of  the 
Constitution  describe  the  symbols  of  the  state — the  flag,  the  motto, 
and  the  national  anthem — and  name  French  the  official  language. 
Articles  3  through  7  delineate  the  fundamental  rights  and  princi- 
ples pertaining  to  Ivoirian  citizenship:  universal  suffrage,  popular 
sovereignty,  and  equality  before  the  law.  Significantly,  in  light  of 
the  government's  subsequent  coercive  support  of  a  single  political 
party,  Article  7  of  the  1960  Constitution  formally  allows  a  multi- 
party system. 

The  first  chapter  of  the  Constitution  directs  that  the  government 
consist  of  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial  branches.  The  three 
subsequent  chapters  of  the  Constitution  list  the  powers  accruing 
to  each.  The  Ivoirian  Constitution  provides  for  a  strong  executive, 
although  it  couches  the  language  of  power  in  democratic  terms. 
For  example,  in  keeping  with  the  articulated  principle  of  popular 
sovereignty,  the  Constitution  provides  that  the  National  Assem- 
bly shall  vote  laws  and  consent  to  taxes  but  then  limits  the  assem- 
bly's power  by  specifying  exactly  the  matters  on  which  the  legislature 
may  act.  Matters  constitutionally  excluded  from  the  legislature's 
purview  automatically  fall  within  that  of  the  executive  and  are  dealt 
with  either  by  decree  or  by  regulation.  The  Constitution  also  stipu- 
lates that  the  executive  and  the  National  Assembly  share  the  power 
to  initiate  legislation,  but  the  pertinent  article  appears  in  the  chapter 
dealing  with  executive — not  legislative  —responsibilities.  In  fact, 
for  most  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  brief  history  as  an  independent  repub- 
lic, nearly  all  legislative  programs  have  originated  with  the  presi- 
dent and  have  been  rubber-stamped  by  the  assembly. 

The  Constitution  also  calls  for  a  separate  judiciary.  As  with  the 
legislature,  however,  the  Constitution  makes  the  judiciary  sub- 
ordinate to  the  individual  who  guarantees  its  independence,  that 
is,  the  president.  The  Constitution  neither  establishes  nor  protects 
a  judiciary  independent  of  or  opposed  to  the  government.  The  Con- 
stitution does  provide  for  the  Supreme  Court  and  a  subordinate  court 
system;  nevertheless,  it  does  not  stipulate  the  exact  structure  of  the 
judiciary,  a  task  that  officially  was  to  be  done  by  the  National  As- 
sembly. In  fact,  the  assembly  simply  approved  the  president's  plan. 

The  ninth  chapter  of  the  Constitution  establishes  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  (Conseil  Economique  et  Social),  the  purpose 
of  which  is  to  advise  the  president  on  matters  pertaining  to  eco- 
nomic development  and  social  change.  The  final  two  chapters  pro- 
vide procedures  for  amending  and  adopting  the  Constitution. 

Civil  Rights 

The  Constitution  lists  and  defines  protected  civil  rights  in  the 
initial  articles  and  in  a  few  brief  references  elsewhere.  Like  the 


146 


Government  and  Politics 


French  Constitution,  it  promises  equality  before  the  law  without 
respect  to  place  of  origin,  race,  sex,  or  religion.  It  also  specifically 
mandates  religious  freedom  and  prohibits  any  manifestations  of 
racial  discrimination.  The  Constitution  also  guarantees  freedom 
from  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  the  right  to  representation  at 
a  trial,  and  the  principle  of  innocence  until  guilt  is  proven.  However, 
the  Constitution  does  not  guarantee  bail;  thus,  suspects  are  rou- 
tinely incarcerated  from  the  time  of  arrest  until  either  acquitted 
in  a  trial  or  sentenced.  The  Constitution  does  not  guarantee  a  free 
press  or  freedom  of  assembly,  thereby  virtually  eliminating  the 
means  by  which  opposing  political  parties  might  develop.  Other- 
wise, the  Constitution  leaves  more  explicit  guarantees  of  individual 
liberties  to  the  legislature. 

In  practice,  the  government  generally  respected  the  civil  rights 
provisions  of  the  Constitution,  preferring  co-optation  instead  of 
coercion  to  enforce  its  will.  The  United  States  Department  of  State 
described  human  rights  as  generally  satisfactory,  in  contrast  to  con- 
ditions in  most  other  sub-Saharan  countries  (see  Human  Rights, 
ch.  5).  At  the  same  time,  the  government  was  not  timid  about  violat- 
ing the  spirit  of  the  Constitution  when  dealing  with  political  oppo- 
nents. For  example,  youthful  political  opponents  were  routinely 
conscripted  into  the  armed  forces,  which  was  one  of  Houphouet- 
Boigny's  favorite  ploys  to  silence  opponents  while  still  being  able 
to  boast  of  holding  no  political  prisoners.  Also,  all  local  news  media 
were  state  owned  and  therefore  expected  to  support  the  govern- 
ment and  its  policies.  In  October  1986,  in  the  face  of  a  budding 
movement  for  a  more  independent  press,  Minister  of  Information 
Laurent  Dona  Fologo  threatened  to  fire  ' 'black  sheep"  journalists 
who  did  not  sufficiendy  assume  the  role  of  public  servants.  Although 
major  European  and  American  newspapers  and  magazines  were 
generally  available  and  interested  Ivoirians  routinely  heard  French 
radio  broadcasts,  government  leaders  did  not  hesitate  to  ban  the 
circulation  of  a  publication  deemed  offensive.  In  November  1987, 
for  example,  the  Political  Bureau  of  the  Democratic  Party  of  Cote 
dTvoire  (Parti  Democratique  de  Cote  dTvoire — PDCI)  asked  the 
government  to  ban  the  sale  of  Jeune  Afrique  following  its  allegations 
that  Houphouet-Boigny  was  involved  in  the  October  1987  coup 
in  neighboring  Burkina  Faso. 

The  Executive 

The  executive  branch  was  headed  by  the  president  and  included 
cabinet  ministers  and  their  administrations.  The  Ivoirian  Consti- 
tution augments  presidential  power  by  combining  with  it  the  func- 
tions of  prime  minister  while  subordinating  the  role  of  the  National 


147 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Assembly.  Under  the  Constitution,  the  president  has  authority  to 
appoint  and  dismiss  ministers,  military  officers,  and  members  of 
the  judiciary.  The  president  promulgates  laws  and  ensures  their 
execution,  negotiates  and  ratifies  treaties  (subject  in  some  cases  to 
the  National  Assembly's  approval),  and  sets  national  policy. 

As  a  coinitiator  of  laws,  the  president  was  able  to  exercise  effec- 
tive control  over  legislation.  Moreover,  constitutional  mandates 
coupled  with  enabling  legislation  ratified  by  the  National  Assem- 
bly gave  the  president  what  amounted  to  government  by  decree. 
Bills  were  not  always  passed  unanimously,  but  that  was  the  prac- 
tical effect. 

The  president  is  elected  to  a  five-year  term  by  universal  suffrage 
and  can  be  reelected  indefinitely.  To  be  elected,  a  candidate  must 
be  at  least  forty  years  old;  other  qualifications  were  fixed  by  legis- 
lation. 

The  Constitution  also  provides  for  the  Council  of  Ministers, 
whose  members  are  appointed  by  the  president  (see  fig.  13). 
Although  ministers  served  at  the  will  of  the  president,  he  accorded 
them  considerable  freedom  of  action  to  propose  policies  and  projects 
within  their  respective  areas  of  competence.  The  proposals  were 
then  debated  by  the  Council  of  Ministers. 

In  the  1980s,  Houphouet-Boigny  selected  his  ministers  from  the 
growing  pool  of  younger,  educated  technocrats  who  had  replaced 
the  political  militants  of  an  earlier  generation.  Selected  at  least  in 
part  on  the  basis  of  merit,  the  new  men  came  to  government  without 
independent  constituencies  and  were  therefore  indebted  to  the  presi- 
dent, which  was  consistent  with  Houphouet-Boigny' s  view  that 
government  in  immature  states  should  be  personal  rather  than  in- 
stitutional. Government,  then,  became  Houphouet-Boigny 's  ad- 
ministrative agency  and  not  a  forum  for  setding  political  differences. 

The  National  Assembly 

Under  the  Constitution,  legislative  responsibilities  theoretically 
belong  to  a  unicameral  National  Assembly  (Assemblee  Nationale). 
In  1985  it  was  enlarged  from  147  to  175  members,  who  were  known 
as  deputies  {deputes).  Qualifications  for  candidates  to  the  Assem- 
bly were  established  by  the  government.  Like  the  president,  deputies 
were  elected  by  universal  suffrage  within  a  constituency  for  five- 
year  terms.  Until  1980,  Houphouet-Boigny  had  handpicked  the 
deputies,  who  were  automatically  elected  to  the  assembly  as  part 
of  a  single  slate.  Consequendy,  the  National  Assembly  was  a  passive 
body  that  almost  automatically  consented  to  executive  instructions. 
The  assembly  did  have  power  to  delay  legislation  by  means  of  ex- 
tended debate.  Deputies,  however,  rarely  challenged  the  president's 


148 


Government  and  Politics 


policy  decisions,  and  little  debate  occurred.  Starting  with  the  1980 
election,  Houphouet-Boigny  opened  the  process  so  that  any  quali- 
fied citizen  could  be  a  candidate.  Moreover,  the  constitutional 
amendment  of  October  1985  stipulating  that  the  president  of  the 
National  Assembly  would  become  interim  president  of  the  repub- 
lic, should  the  presidency  be  vacated,  conferred  greater  importance 
on  the  workings  of  the  assembly. 

Pursuant  to  the  Constitution,  each  legislative  term  lasted  five 
years,  during  which  the  National  Assembly  sat  for  two  sessions  per 
year.  The  first  term  began  on  the  last  Wednesday  in  April  and  lasted 
no  more  than  three  months.  The  second  opened  on  the  first  Wed- 
nesday of  October  and  ended  on  the  third  Friday  in  December. 
The  president  or  a  majority  of  the  deputies  could  request  an  extra- 
ordinary session  to  consider  a  specific  issue.  Meetings  of  the  as- 
sembly were  open  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the  president  or 
one-third  of  the  deputies. 

The  National  Assembly  elected  its  own  president,  who  served 
for  the  duration  of  the  legislative  term.  In  1988  this  position  was 
second  only  to  the  president  of  the  republic  in  the  table  of  prece- 
dence. It  was  held  by  Henri  Konan  Bedie  for  the  1985-90  term. 
The  assembly  president's  staff  was  also  elected  by  the  assembly. 
A  member  of  this  staff  would  preside  over  the  National  Assembly 
whenever  the  president  of  the  assembly  was  not  present. 

Legislation  was  proposed  within  three  standing  committees:  the 
Committee  for  General  and  Institutional  Affairs,  which  covered 
interior  matters,  the  civil  service,  information,  national  defense, 
foreign  affairs,  and  justice;  the  Committee  for  Economic  and  Finan- 
cial Affairs,  which  covered  financial  and  economic  affairs,  plan- 
ning, land,  public  works,  mines,  transportation,  postal  service,  and 
telecommunications;  and  the  Committee  for  Social  and  Cultural 
Affairs,  which  covered  education,  youth  and  sports,  public  health 
and  population,  labor,  and  social  affairs.  The  assembly  could  also 
form  special  standing  committees  for  specific  purposes.  Each  com- 
mittee presented  to  the  full  assembly  legislative  proposals  pertain- 
ing to  affairs  within  its  area  of  expertise.  Determining  the  legislative 
agenda  was  the  responsibility  of  the  president  of  the  National  As- 
sembly, his  staff,  and  the  committee  heads. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council 

The  Constitution  also  provides  for  the  establishment  of  the  Eco- 
nomic and  Social  Council,  which  advises  the  president  on  issues 
of  an  "economic  or  social  character."  In  1988  the  council  had  forty- 
five  members,  all  of  whom  were  selected  by  the  president  for  five- 
year  terms  from  among  those  members  of  the  elite  most  concerned 


149 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


LU  CC 
Q_  O 

3  o 

CO 


h-  < 
DC  LU 

=>  9- 

o5? 


o 

U_  Z 

?? 

II 

O  h- 

o  co 

DC 


O  ixi 

h-  N 

cc  co 

d  co 

O  < 

o 


CO 
h- 

cc 

LU  LU  Z) 

9  x  o 

I-  H  O 

i  o  o 
< 


LU  X  t 

8| 

H  DC  £ 
<  — I  — ' 

x  -> 

O  LL 

co  y  o 

xO 

CO 

CO 
X 
— !  LU 

i£ 

Z>  Z 

o  ^ 


Sz 

9o 

°^ 

z  < 

Oo 

o  o 

LU  CO 


o  £ 

i,.  LU 

LU  LU 
n  i  r~ 

OCRATI 
RTY  OF 
:  D'lVOII 

ECUTIVE 
VIMITTE 

LITICAL 
UREAU 

1MMITTI 

iCTORA 

g°-o 

X  O 

LU  O 

O  GO 
D_ 

LU 

O  X 

O  Q 

_l  > 

<  ^ 
z* 

O  2 
x  u-1 

<  CO 
z  < 


Is 
-5^ 


3 

U 
bo 

O 

o 

£ 

o 


150 


Government  and  Politics 


with  economic  development  and  social  change.  By  the  late  1970s, 
membership  included  the  leaders  of  the  growing  commercial  and 
industrial  sector.  With  the  exception  of  its  president,  who  was 
named  by  the  president  of  the  republic,  the  council  elected  officers 
and  distributed  its  members  among  various  standing  committees 
with  discrete  areas  of  responsibility.  In  1986  Houphouet-Boigny 
named  Philippe  Yace  to  head  the  council.  Although  the  president 
was  obligated  to  consult  with  the  council  on  all  matters  within  its 
competence,  the  council  could  also  offer  unsolicited  opinions  per- 
taining to  economic  development  on  all  laws,  ordinances,  and 
decrees.  Moreover,  on  its  own  initiative,  the  council  could  direct 
the  president's  attention  to  any  economic  or  social  issue. 

Judicial  System 

The  1960  Constitution  entitles  all  Ivoirians  to  a  fair  public  trial. 
That  mandate  was  generally  respected  in  urban  areas;  in  rural  vil- 
lages, traditional  institutions  more  commonly  administered  justice. 
Indigent  defendants  were  also  entitled  to  legal  counsel  by  court- 
appointed  attorneys.  In  practice,  public  defenders  were  often  un- 
available, and  there  was  a  vast  difference  between  the  representation 
accorded  rich  and  poor  clients.  According  to  the  Constitution, 
judges  are  subject  only  to  the  law,  and  the  president,  with  the  as- 
sistance of  the  Superior  Council  of  Magistrates,  is  charged  with 
ensuring  the  independence  of  the  judiciary.  Because  the  president 
of  the  republic  controlled  appointments  to  the  courts,  the  judiciary 
seldom,  if  ever,  opposed  the  president. 

The  judicial  system  bore  the  imprint  of  both  the  French  legal 
and  judicial  traditions  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  customary  law.  It 
consisted  of  two  levels.  The  lower  courts,  all  of  which  were  created 
by  presidential  decree  and  exercised  limited  jurisdiction,  included 
the  courts  of  appeals,  the  courts  of  first  instance,  the  courts  of  assize, 
and  the  justice  of  the  peace  courts.  The  five  courts  of  first  instance, 
which  handled  the  bulk  of  trials,  heard  misdemeanor  and  minor 
criminal  cases  (with  a  maximum  sentence  of  three  months  or  less), 
juvenile  cases,  and  civil  cases.  The  courts  consisted  of  a  president, 
one  or  more  vice-presidents,  and  one  or  more  examining  magis- 
trates and  trial  judges,  all  of  whom  were  appointed  by  the  presi- 
dent of  the  republic.  The  courts  were  located  in  Abidjan,  Bouake, 
Daloa,  Korhogo,  and  Man.  Each  had  two  or  more  delegated  sec- 
tions in  larger  towns  within  their  respective  jurisdictions.  The  courts 
of  assize,  which  were  paired  with  courts  of  first  instance,  handled 
only  major  criminal  cases.  At  the  lowest  level  were  justice  of  the 
peace  courts,  presided  over  by  justices  of  the  peace  who  handled 
petty  cases  in  civil,  criminal,  and  customary  law.  The  two  courts 


151 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

of  appeals,  located  in  Abidjan  and  Bouake,  heard  appeals  from 
courts  of  first  instance  and  courts  of  assize.  The  Abidjan  court  heard 
appeals  from  the  Abidjan  court  of  first  instance  and  its  delegated 
sections;  the  Bouake  court  handled  referrals  from  the  other  four 
courts  of  first  instance. 

The  superior  courts  are  mandated  by  the  Constitution  and  have 
nationwide  jurisdiction.  They  include  the  Supreme  Court,  the  High 
Court  of  Justice  and  the  State  Security  Court.  The  Supreme  Court 
is  separated  into  four  sections  handling,  respectively,  constitution- 
ality of  laws,  administrative  appeal,  criminal  appeal,  and  finan- 
cial control  of  government  services.  The  Constitution  directs  that 
the  court  include  one  president,  three  vice-presidents  (one  for  each 
section  except  the  constitutional),  nine  associate  justices,  one  secre- 
tary general,  and  four  secretaries.  The  Constitutional  Section,  which 
always  met  in  closed  session,  reviewed  laws  that  had  been  passed 
by  the  National  Assembly  but  not  yet  promulgated.  The  section 
had  fifteen  days  to  complete  its  consideration  of  a  bill.  The  presi- 
dent of  the  republic  or  the  president  of  the  assembly  could  forward 
requests  for  a  constitutional  review.  The  president  of  the  republic 
could  also  submit  government  bills  to  the  section  for  a  constitu- 
tional hearing  before  they  were  submitted  to  the  Council  of 
Ministers.  The  Constitutional  Section  also  supervised  referenda 
as  called  for  in  the  Constitution  and  ruled  on  the  eligibility  of  can- 
didates for  the  National  Assembly.  The  president  of  the  Supreme 
Court  presided  over  sessions  of  the  section,  which  also  included 
the  vice-presidents  of  the  court  and  four  persons  noted  for  their 
juridical  and  administrative  competence.  These  four  could  also  be 
members  of  the  court.  Two  of  the  four  were  appointed  by  the  presi- 
dent of  the  assembly,  and  two  were  appointed  by  the  president  of 
the  republic.  The  term  of  office  was  four  years,  and  there  was  no 
provision  for  removal  from  office. 

The  Judicial  Section  was  the  highest  court  of  appeals  in  crimi- 
nal cases.  The  section  consisted  of  one  vice-president,  four  associ- 
ate justices,  and  two  secretaries.  It  was  organized  into  civil  and 
criminal  divisions  with  three  additional  magistrates  in  each.  The 
Administrative  Section  handled  cases  of  alleged  abuse  of  adminis- 
trative power  involving  individuals  in  public  administration.  This 
section  consisted  of  a  vice-president  and  two  associate  judges.  Un- 
like the  judges  in  other  sections,  those  in  the  administrative  sec- 
tion were  magistrates,  but  not  necessarily  members  of  the  bench. 
Another  section  of  the  Supreme  Court,  the  Audit  and  Control  Sec- 
tion, monitored  public  expenditures  and  annually  audited  accounts 
of  the  state  and  its  agencies.  This  section  consisted  of  a  vice- 
president,  three  associate  justices,  and  one  secretary. 


152 


Government  and  Politics 


The  two  other  superior  courts  included  the  High  Court  of  Justice 
and  the  State  Security  Court.  The  High  Court  of  Justice  was  com- 
posed of  members  of  the  National  Assembly  who  were  elected  to 
the  court  every  five  years,  following  each  general  election.  The  court 
was  empowered  to  impeach  the  president  of  the  republic  for  trea- 
son and  to  judge  other  members  of  the  government  for  crimes  or 
misdemeanors  committed  in  the  exercise  of  their  official  duties. 
Cases  concerning  crimes  against  state  security  were  heard  in  the 
State  Security  Court. 

All  judges,  as  well  as  all  employees  of  the  Central  Administra- 
tion of  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  comprised  the  professional  judiciary. 
They  were  required  to  have  obtained  a  bachelor  of  law  degree  and 
could  not  concurrently  hold  an  elected  office.  A  Superior  Council 
of  the  Judiciary  was  responsible  for  assisting  the  president  in  the 
task  of  guaranteeing  an  independent  judiciary.  The  council  advised 
the  president  on  nominations  to  the  Supreme  Court,  on  cases  con- 
cerning judicial  independence,  and  on  disciplinary  problems.  It 
also  advised  the  minister  of  justice  on  nominations  to  magistrate 
positions.  The  council's  membership  included  members  of  the  Con- 
stitutional Section  of  the  Supreme  Court  and  three  magistrates, 
each  appointed  to  two-year  terms  by  the  president  from  a  list  pre- 
pared by  the  minister  of  justice. 

Local  Government 

As  of  1987,  the  country  was  divided  into  forty-nine  prefectures 
(see  fig.  1).  The  prefectural  administration,  headed  by  a  prefect 
(prefet),  represented  executive  authority  within  the  prefecture.  Con- 
stitutionally, the  prefects  responded  to  the  local  interests  of  their 
respective  constituents  and  directed  and  coordinated  the  adminis- 
trative services  represented  in  their  respective  constituencies.  As 
representatives  of  each  ministry  within  their  prefectures,  the  prefects 
issued  directives  to  the  heads  of  services  and  ensured  their  compli- 
ance, presided  over  all  state  organizations  and  commissions  within 
the  prefecture,  periodically  met  with  service  heads  at  the  prefec- 
tural level,  and  acted  as  trustees  for  public  enterprises  and  activi- 
ties in  the  prefectures.  Prefects  also  were  responsible  for  maintaining 
public  order  and  security  in  their  respective  prefectures.  In  that 
capacity,  they  supervised  local  police  and  oversaw  the  execution 
of  laws,  statutes,  and  executive  orders.  To  deal  with  civil  unrest 
or  other  emergencies,  they  were  also  empowered  to  issue  binding 
orders  or  decrees,  detain  suspects  for  up  to  forty-eight  hours,  and 
request  assistance  from  the  armed  forces  (see  Internal  Security 
Organization  and  Forces,  ch.  5). 


153 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


The  prefectural  administration  included  a  secretary  general,  a 
chief  of  cabinet,  and  two  division  chiefs,  one  of  whom  was  respon- 
sible for  administrative  and  general  affairs  such  as  elections, 
supervision  of  the  police,  administration  of  subprefectures  (sous- 
prefectures),  and  civil  affairs.  The  other  division  chief  was  responsi- 
ble for  economic,  financial,  and  social  affairs,  including  the  bud- 
get, accounts,  public  works,  health,  education,  and  the  supervision 
of  markets  and  price  controls.  The  secretary  general,  besides  sub- 
stituting for  the  prefect  during  the  latter' s  absence,  supervised  and 
coordinated  all  departmental  services.  The  chief  of  cabinet,  in  ef- 
fect an  administrative  aide,  was  responsible  for  intradepartmental 
affairs  (mail,  inspection  visits,  and  liaison  with  ministerial  depart- 
ments and  personnel  in  Abidjan). 

According  to  enabling  legislation  passed  in  1961 ,  the  prefectures 
were  to  be  decentralized,  autonomous  units  competent  to  deal  with 
local  issues.  Governing  the  prefecture  was  to  be  a  general  council 
whose  members,  representing  local  interests,  were  to  be  elected  by 
slates  for  five-year  terms  by  universal  suffrage  within  the  prefec- 
ture. The  general  council  was  to  pass  a  budget  and  act  on  local 
issues.  Its  decisions  were  then  to  be  passed  on  to  the  prefect  for 
execution.  In  reality,  as  of  1988  the  central  government  in  Abi- 
djan had  not  passed  the  enabling  measures  establishing  the  general 
councils;  hence,  the  prefectures  were  exclusively  administrative 
structures. 

Every  prefecture  was  segmented  into  subprefectures,  each  headed 
by  a  subprefect  (sous-prefet) .  Subprefectures  were  the  lowest  adminis- 
trative unit  of  government  and  the  unit  with  which  most  people 
interacted.  Unlike  the  prefectures,  the  subprefectures  had  neither 
autonomy  nor  deliberative  responsibilities;  their  function  was  purely 
administrative.  The  subprefects  acted  under  the  delegated  authority 
of  the  prefects  but  also  had  other  responsibilities.  First  and  fore- 
most, the  subprefect  was  responsible  for  maintaining  public  order 
and  could,  in  emergencies,  request  aid  from  the  prefect  or  the  armed 
forces.  The  subprefect  also  submitted  a  public  works  and  civil  action 
program  as  well  as  a  budget  to  the  prefect.  As  an  officer  of  the 
state,  the  subprefect  supervised  the  census  and  elections  within  the 
subprefecture  and  officiated  at  civil  ceremonies.  He  also  monitored, 
albeit  loosely,  the  behavior  of  chiefs  of  villages  and  cantons  (see 
Glossary)  within  the  boundaries  of  the  subprefecture  and  repre- 
sented the  authority  of  the  central  government  to  local  populations. 
Finally,  the  subprefect  elicited  from  notables  living  within  the  sub- 
prefecture  a  list  of  grievances  or  suggestions  that  was  passed  on 
to  the  prefect. 


154 


Government  and  Politics 


Administration  at  the  subprefecture  level  included  a  secretariat 
consisting  of  the  various  administrative  services  and  divisions  in 
the  subprefecture.  Assisting  the  subprefect  was  the  Subprefectural 
Council,  which  replaced  the  council  of  notables,  an  artifact  of  the 
colonial  era.  This  council  was  composed  of  the  subprefect,  the  heads 
of  public  services  represented  in  the  subprefecture,  local  party  offi- 
cials, and  twelve  to  sixteen  private  citizens,  all  residing  in  the  sub- 
prefecture  and  known  for  their  active  participation  in  affairs 
pertaining  to  politics,  commerce,  and  social  change.  The  councils 
met  twice  yearly  in  open  sessions  under  the  direction  of  the  sub- 
prefect.  The  council's  responsibilities  were  solely  consultative.  At 
the  first  meeting  of  the  year,  the  subprefect  was  obligated  to  present 
to  the  council  the  budget  and  accounts  of  the  past  year.  By  law 
the  council  had  to  be  consulted  on  expenditures  allocated  to  the 
subprefecture  by  the  government  or  collected  in  the  form  of  mar- 
ket, parking,  or  other  fees.  The  council  also  submitted  a  program 
of  public  works  or  other  public  projects  of  local  interest  to  be 
financed  with  the  allocated  funds. 

The  council  had  no  decision-making  authority  and  no  direct  po- 
litical role.  However,  its  opinions  carried  some  weight.  The  citizen- 
members  represented  wealth  and  influence  that  often  transcended 
the  physical  boundaries  of  the  subprefecture.  These  citizens  often 
understood  the  needs  and  customs  of  the  local  community  better 
than  the  subprefect,  who  in  most  instances  was  not  from  the  region. 

Modern  and  traditional  governance  merged  at  the  level  of  vil- 
lage and  canton.  Using  criteria  based  on  traditions,  villages  selected 
their  own  leaders,  who  were  subsequently  proposed  to  and  formally 
invested  by  the  prefect.  The  ceremony  granted  formal  legitimacy 
to  the  village  leader  while  at  the  same  time  confirming  his  status 
as  subordinate  to  the  subprefect.  In  the  formal  bureaucratic  sec- 
tor, village  chiefs  served  simply  as  conduits  between  the  subprefect 
and  the  villagers.  Informally,  village  chiefs  filled  a  multitude  of 
roles,  many  of  which  paralleled  the  obligations  and  responsibili- 
ties of  the  modern  bureaucratic  administration.  Under  the  colo- 
nial regime,  groups  of  villages  linked  by  common  ethnicity  and 
encompassing  a  relatively  large  area  were  designated  a  canton;  this 
designation  continued  into  the  modern  period.  Canton  chiefs,  whose 
authority  was  also  rooted  in  tradition,  were  selected  according  to 
traditional  norms  and  formally  appointed  by  the  minister  of  in- 
terior. Because  their  responsibilities  in  the  formal  sector  were  never 
resolved,  the  canton  chiefs  remained  largely  symbolic  figures. 

By  the  1980s,  thirty- seven  cities  had  been  designated  autono- 
mous communities  {communes  en  plein  exercice),  a  legal  status  that  dates 
from  1884  and  applied  originally  to  the  Senegalese  cities  of  Saint 


155 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Louis  and  Dakar.  Governing  structures  in  autonomous  commu- 
nities included  a  municipal  council  and  a  mayor.  A  council  would 
be  composed  of  eleven  to  thirty-seven  members,  depending  on  the 
population  of  the  city.  All  were  elected  by  universal  suffrage  and, 
until  1980,  as  part  of  a  slate.  In  the  1985  elections,  council  mem- 
bers ran  independentiy.  The  legal  status  of  the  municipal  councils 
was  ambiguous.  According  to  law,  they  enjoyed  broad  powers  which 
were  to  be  exercised  independently  of  the  granting  authority  in 
Abidjan.  For  example,  the  enabling  legislation  of  1955  instructed 
the  councils,  through  their  deliberative  processes,  to  "direct  the 
affairs  of  the  community,"  which  included  voting  on  budgets.  In 
fact,  most  of  the  decisions  taken  by  councils  first  had  to  be  approved 
by  the  minister  of  interior,  who  could  veto  them.  Moreover,  the 
Council  of  Ministers  could  dissolve  an  excessively  independent 
municipal  council  by  a  simple  decree.  Consequently,  the  council 
members  routinely  accepted  guidelines  proposed  by  authorities  in 
Abidjan. 

The  councils  also  elected  mayors,  whose  functions  were  identi- 
cal to  those  of  subprefects.  Like  the  municipal  councils,  mayors 
routinely  submitted  to  the  authority  of  the  minister  of  interior. 

In  practice,  municipal  administration  was  not  an  outgrowth  of 
a  preexisting  social  and  political  institution.  The  label  "autono- 
mous communities"  was,  instead,  the  creation  of  a  state  bureau- 
cracy that  was  not  inclined  toward  sharing  power.  Consequently, 
from  1956  until  the  late  1970s,  councils  shrank  in  size  and  impor- 
tance as  council  members  died.  For  example,  the  Abidjan  coun- 
cil, which  at  one  point  consisted  of  thirty- seven  members,  had  only 
seventeen  in  1974.  As  the  central  government  loosened  its  grip  on 
politics  prior  to  the  1985  elections,  potential  candidates  saw  the 
position  of  municipal  council  member  as  a  first  step  toward  higher 
political  office,  and  interest  in  the  institution  grew.  In  the  1985 
election,  more  than  840  candidates  ran  for  235  places  on  municipal 
councils. 

Actual  Power 
The  Party 

The  trappings  of  political  power  were  concentrated  in  a  single 
party,  the  PDCI,  to  which  all  adult  citizens  were  required  to  be- 
long. The  principal  goal  of  the  party  was  stability,  and  compared 
with  parties  in  other  sub-Saharan  states,  it  had  achieved  its  objec- 
tive. By  and  large,  political  conflict  took  place  within  constitutional 
bounds.  To  continue  that  tradition  in  the  1980s,  the  government 
expanded  political  participation  and  discouraged  political — and 


156 


Government  and  Politics 


especially  ideological — competition.  The  party  embraced  what  it 
defined  as  centrist  policies,  and  although  Ivoirian  citizens  did  not 
enjoy  democratic  freedoms  in  the  Western  tradition,  foreign  ob- 
servers considered  Ivoirian  society  among  the  freest  in  Africa. 

Party  membership  was  synonymous  with  citizenship.  At  its  in- 
ception and  during  the  late  stages  of  colonial  rule,  the  party  was 
a  broad  coalition,  less  nationalist  than  nativist,  and  calling  itself 
populist,  consultative,  and  representative.  At  that  time,  the  PDCI 
enjoyed  considerable  grass-roots  support,  especially  on  issues  per- 
taining to  forced  labor  and  the  indigenat  (see  Glossary;  Colonial 
Administration,  ch.  1).  After  independence,  however,  the  party 
came  under  increasingly  tight  presidential  control.  Instead  of 
political  mobilization,  the  government  demanded  of  the  citizenry 
what  Philippe  Yace  called  i 'active  acquiescence."  The  party  leaders 
closest  to  the  president,  almost  all  of  whom  had  been  plantation 
owners,  wielded  great  power  in  their  home  (ethnic)  constituencies, 
where  they  were  able  to  influence  the  distribution  of  patronage  in 
the  form  of  public  and  party  offices,  contracts,  public  works,  and 
other  benefits.  This  enabled  them  to  increase  their  own  wealth  and 
further  secure  their  positions  in  the  political  system.  Over  time, 
patronage  supplanted  political  organization,  and  many  local  PDCI 
committees  in  rural  areas  withered. 

In  the  1980s,  with  the  anticolonialist  struggles  long  over  and  the 
era  of  Houphouet-Boigny  and  his  fellow  political  militants  wan- 
ing, the  party  continued  to  lose  its  vitality.  The  party's  dated  preoc- 
cupation with  unity  deflected  attention  from  the  pressing  issues  in 
Cote  dT voire.  Economic  development  demanded  greater  techno- 
logical sophistication  and  gave  rise  to  conflicts  pitting  cities  against 
the  rural  periphery  and  young  against  old.  Incrementally,  tech- 
nocrats and  developmentalists  with  modern  Western  values  replaced 
party  militants  in  the  government  bureaucracy.  The  new  elite  did 
not  challenge  the  militants,  who  continued  to  dole  out  party  offices, 
nor  did  they  insist  that  the  government  become  more  democratic 
or  less  authoritarian.  The  new  elite  simply  had  different  concerns: 
government  rather  than  the  party  and  bureaucratic  rationality 
rather  than  party  mobilization. 

Without  the  infusion  of  competing  ideas,  the  party  atrophied  as 
a  creative  political  force.  To  be  sure,  the  governing  elite  remained 
members  of  the  party;  however,  as  the  state  became  more  com- 
plex and  bureaucratized,  the  distinction  between  party  and  state 
blurred.  The  government  and  not  the  party  assumed  responsibil- 
ity for  national  integration.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  party  served 
primarily  as  a  sinecure  for  old  party  stalwarts,  and  the  PDCI 
administration  became  a  vehicle  for  self- advancement  and  the 


157 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

protection  of  narrow  interests.  That  situation  was  not  entirely  true 
in  the  case  of  party  activities  at  village  levels  where,  reversing  an 
earlier  trend,  the  position  of  party  secretary  (the  local  party 
representative)  became  an  openly  contested  electoral  office.  Increas- 
ingly, political  neophytes  viewed  the  office  as  an  initial  step  to  higher 
office,  and  so  they  invested  resources  in  campaigns  and  tried  to 
fulfill  their  campaign  obligations. 

Party  Organization 

In  the  late  1980s,  power  lay  in  the  Political  Bureau  and  Com- 
mittee Directorate.  Like  the  National  Assembly,  both  were  ex- 
panded in  the  mid-1980s  in  an  attempt  to  broaden  the  PDCI's 
representation  among  educated  people  between  the  ages  of  thirty- 
five  and  forty-five.  The  Political  Bureau  was  expanded  from  35 
to  58  members,  and  the  Committee  Directorate  grew  from  100  to 
208. 

The  members  of  the  Political  Bureau  included  the  cabinet 
ministers,  plus  other  members  of  the  political,  military,  and  busi- 
ness elite.  Heading  the  Political  Bureau  was  a  thirteen-member 
Executive  Committee,  which  in  1980  replaced  the  party  secretary 
general  at  the  apex  of  the  party.  (The  transition  from  a  single  leader 
to  a  committee  in  fact  appeared  to  constitute  a  calculated  rebuff 
to  Philippe  Yace,  who  was  PDCI  secretary  general  at  the  time.) 
By  the  mid-1980s,  the  Executive  Committee  was  composed  exclu- 
sively of  younger  cabinet  ministers,  thereby  excluding  many  long- 
time political  allies  of  the  president. 

Major  policy  decisions  affecting  the  party  and  state  originated 
in  the  Political  Bureau.  (The  Political  Bureau  would  probably  be 
responsible  for  nominating  a  successor  should  the  president,  as 
seemed  to  be  the  case  in  1988,  decline  to  do  so  prior  to  leaving 
office.)  Political  divisions  and  alliances  within  the  Political  Bureau 
thus  assumed  great  importance.  The  most  apparent  division  was 
a  generational  one  pitting  old  party  stalwarts  such  as  Mathieu  Ekra, 
Auguste  Denise,  Camille  Alliali,  and  Philippe  Yace  against  ambi- 
tious young  technocrats  such  as  Henri  Konan  Bedie,  Jean  Jacques 
Bechio,  Balla  Keita,  and  Alphonse  Djedje  Mady.  Within  the  sec- 
ond group  were  equally  significant  divisions  between  the  aforemen- 
tioned Young  Turks  and  other  well-educated  specialists  such  as 
Laurent  Dona  Fologo  and  Donwahi  Charles,  who  were  known  as 
team  players. 

The  Committee  Directorate  represented  a  further  attempt  to 
incorporate — some  would  say  co-opt — larger  segments  of  the  popu- 
lation, especially  potential  foci  of  opposition,  into  the  political 
process.  Another  purpose  of  the  directorate  was  to  invigorate  the 


158 


President  Felix  Houphouet-Boigny 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  Washington 


159 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


party  by  expanding  its  representation.  Accordingly,  the  Commit- 
tee Directorate  included  members  of  the  judicial,  executive,  and 
legislative  branches  of  the  government,  current  and  former  mili- 
tary officers,  leaders  of  government-backed  unions,  women,  busi- 
ness leaders,  and  members  of  the  professions,  including  university 
professors.  It  functioned  by  advising  the  president  through  a  ser- 
ies of  ad  hoc  committees  addressing  particular  issues. 

In  the  smaller  cities,  towns,  and  villages,  the  party  official  with 
whom  most  Ivoirians  dealt  was  the  local  secretary  general.  As  their 
principal  task,  all  secretaries  general  sold  party  membership  cards, 
the  revenues  from  which  funded  local  political  operations.  In  larger 
constituencies,  the  secretary  general  served  as  a  spokesperson  and 
propagandist  for  the  government  by  placing  the  symbols  and  slo- 
gans of  governance  before  the  voting  public.  In  rural  constituen- 
cies, the  local  secretary  general  settled  disputes  generally  involving 
land  tenure  and  land  use. 

Orientation  Toward  the  Political  System 

Starting  with  independence,  the  Ivoirian  polity  experienced  an 
unusual  reorientation  of  political  and  moral  values  not  found  else- 
where in  most  of  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Strong  economic  growth  (at 
least  through  the  mid-1970s)  and  relatively  high  rates  of  urbani- 
zation and  literacy,  in  combination  with  a  pervasive  media,  have 
exposed  the  polity  to  Western  cultural  values  and  the  politics  of 
consumption.  In  few  other  countries  was  materialism  as  open  and 
avowed  an  ideology  as  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Consequently,  the  salient 
divisions  in  the  Ivoirian  polity  were  economic  rather  than  ethnic 
or  religious.  Stratification  by  class  was  congruent  with  the  fun- 
damental difference  between  rulers  and  ruled.  In  many  instances, 
class  differences  also  coincided  with  ethnic  divisions,  which  tended 
to  exaggerate  the  importance  of  ethnicity  while  permitting  some 
observers  to  diminish  the  importance  of  class  membership.  This 
was  no  new  phenomenon — the  same  stratification  characterized 
most  precolonial  societies  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Nevertheless,  the  ex- 
panded opportunities  for  material  consumption  and  the  manifest 
extremes  of  wealth  and  poverty  that  subsequently  emerged  were 
new.  Members  of  the  elite  translated  the  struggle  for  independence 
into  a  quest  for  privilege.  They  insisted  that  the  interests  of  all  Ivoiri- 
ans were  in  harmony,  a  supposition  that  allowed  them  to  rationa- 
lize the  use  of  public  policy  on  their  behalf.  For  their  part,  the 
have-nots  not  only  envied  the  elite  for  its  material  attainments  but 
also  knew  how  the  elite,  using  the  political  system,  attained  them. 
So  while  rich  and  poor — the  rulers  and  the  ruled — nurtured  vastly 


160 


Government  and  Politics 


different  expectations  of  the  political  system,  they  shared  a  clear 
understanding  of  its  ultimate  purpose. 

Historically,  the  political  elite  included  the  wealthiest  10  percent 
of  the  plantation  owners.  By  the  late  1980s,  however,  with  the  bu- 
reaucratization of  the  state,  the  nature  of  the  elite  had  changed 
markedly.  Most  often  its  members  were  high-level  bureaucrats  and 
party  officials.  Simultaneously,  and  as  a  direct  consequence  of  their 
political  connections,  many  held  directorships  in  locally  based  cor- 
porations or  were  minority  shareholders  in  multinational  corpo- 
rations. Characteristically,  the  businesses  in  which  members  of  the 
elite  invested  required  relatively  small  investments  in  comparison 
with  anticipated  returns.  That  situation  was  especially  common 
in  real  estate,  where  investors  typically  sought  a  full  return  on  in- 
vestment within  three  years.  Another  industry  favored  by  the  elite 
was  transportation.  Finally,  some  members  of  the  elite  invested 
in  agriculture,  exporting  bananas  and  pineapples,  the  prices  of 
which,  unlike  the  prices  of  coffee  and  cocoa,  were  not  regulated 
by  the  government. 

Significantly,  the  elite  was  not  a  true  entrepreneurial  class;  that 
is,  its  members,  with  few  exceptions,  did  not  save  and  invest  capi- 
tal. Rather,  they  created  a  favorable  environment  for  schemes  in- 
itiated by  foreigners  and  subsequently  mediated  (for  a  fee)  among 
bureaucracy,  business,  and  politicians.  Instead  of  investing,  the 
elite  consumed.  Its  members  sent  their  offspring  to  France  for  at 
least  part  of  their  education.  They  became  accustomed  to  import- 
ed food,  clothing,  and  high-technology  consumer  goods.  Perhaps 
most  important,  the  elite  nurtured — and  in  turn  sought — legitimacy 
in  an  ethos  that  openly  elevated  materialism  to  the  level  of  politi- 
cal and  moral  ideology.  According  to  one  observer,  the  elite  be- 
came, in  effect,  a  class  that  could  not  afford  to  lose  power. 

To  sustain  its  position  of  privilege,  the  elite  formulated  a  politi- 
cal strategy  based  on  limited  participation  and  the  politics  of  co- 
optation  to  vent  the  pressures  linked  to  rapid  change.  Thus,  with 
independence  the  government  banned  any  opposition  political  par- 
ties or  voices,  incorporated  nearly  all  unions  into  the  party,  and 
handpicked  National  Assembly  candidates  who  then  ran  on  a  slate 
presented  to  voters  who  either  cast  a  "yea"  ballot  or  did  not  vote. 
Even  after  the  government  permitted  contested  elections  for  the 
assembly,  the  party,  acting  as  surrogate  for  the  government,  passed 
on  the  acceptability  of  all  candidates.  Similarly,  the  indigenous  pri- 
vate sector  was  unable  to  compete  with  the  vast  resources  that  the 
elite-dominated  public  sector  could  marshall  and  effectively  was 
excluded  from  participating  in  economic  transformation. 


161 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Appreciative  of  the  importance  of  political  stability,  the  govern- 
ment ostensibly  compromised  by  permitting  small  changes  for  the 
sake  of  order.  Nevertheless,  none  of  the  demands  for  change,  which 
in  the  past  may  have  included  pay  raises,  better  working  condi- 
tions, scholarship  aid,  or  improved  relations  between  groups,  re- 
quired a  substantial  change  in  governing  institutions  or  procedures, 
and  they  were  generally  co-opted  by  Houphouet-Boigny's  expres- 
sions of  concern  and  the  appointment  of  a  commission  to  study 
the  problem.  Finally,  the  government  bought  compliance  from  its 
more  articulate  and  therefore  more  serious  critics  by  offering  them 
resources  such  as  land,  licenses,  forestry  rights,  or  positions  in  the 
party  and  government. 

Counterpoised  to  the  modern  elite  were  the  peasantry,  students, 
middle-  and  lower-level  civil  servants,  and  a  growing  urban  under- 
class. Because  of  explicit  public  policy  decisions,  few  members  of 
that  group  benefited  directiy  from  Cote  d'lvoire 's  vaunted  economic 
growth.  This  group  was  no  less  politicized  than  the  elite,  but  it 
lacked  avenues  of  expression.  Accordingly,  this  underclass  re- 
sponded to  restrictions  either  by  refusing  to  participate  in  the  po- 
litical process  or  by  challenging  public  policy.  Nonparticipation  was 
generally  a  rural  phenomenon,  and  in  some  areas  less  than  40  per- 
cent of  eligible  voters  cast  ballots  in  the  1985  elections,  in  which 
Houphouet-Boigny  boasted  of  having  received  more  than  99  per- 
cent of  the  vote.  Challenges  to  public  policy  took  the  form  of  riots 
against  unemployment,  student  protests,  and  demonstrations 
against  high  prices,  shrinking  subsidies,  land  confiscation,  foreign- 
ers, and  high  taxes  (see  Internal  Dissent  and  Further  Consolida- 
tion of  Power,  ch.  1;  Internal  Security,  ch.  5).  The  government 
customarily  responded  to  conflict  with  force  followed  by  a  demand 
for  loyalty  to  the  ruling  regime.  Groups  demonstrating  their  polit- 
ical support  received  benefits  in  the  form  of  clinics,  schools,  in- 
vestment in  infrastructure,  markets,  and  other  public  facilities. 
Conversely,  those  withholding  support  were  simply  denied  any 
resources  for  economic  development. 

Interest  Groups  and  National  Politics 
Political  Issues 

The  party- government  in  the  mid-1980s  most  closely  resembled 
an  old-fashioned  political  machine.  Although  it  called  itself  a  one- 
party  democracy,  Cote  d'lvoire  was  not  a  political  democracy  in 
the  Western  sense.  There  was  no  institutionalized  opposition, 
although  by  the  1980s  National  Assembly  elections  were  being 
contested.  As  under  the  French,  civil  liberties  remained  limited. 


162 


Government  and  Politics 


Although  Cote  d'lvoire  appeared  to  be  a  country  of  laws,  those 
laws  were  tailored  to  suit  a  set  of  rulers  who  could  easily  alter  the 
laws  at  their  discretion. 

By  the  end  of  the  1980s,  the  Ivoirian  political  system  was  facing 
serious  problems.  Because  the  structure,  form,  tone,  and  policies 
of  the  government  were  the  personal  creations  of  the  president, 
who  was  said  to  be  in  his  late  eighties,  the  succession  question  had 
substantial  implications.  Moreover,  no  candidate  enjoyed  the  cha- 
risma or  stature  of  Houphouet-Boigny.  In  1988  rivals  seeking  to 
succeed  Houphouet-Boigny  barely  maintained  any  pretense  of 
unity.  No  plausible  candidate — with  the  possible  exception  of 
Yace — had  the  experience  or  preparation  necessary  to  assume  the 
office. 

By  the  late  1980s,  two  decades  of  rapid  economic  growth  fol- 
lowed by  serious  economic  setbacks  had  transformed  social  mores 
and  altered  civil  society.  Students  and  teachers  were  protesting  the 
continuing  control  of  government  by  a  small  number  of  party  lead- 
ers for  the  benefit  of  a  privileged  class  of  landowners  and 
bureaucrats.  Corruption  in  the  business  community  was  becom- 
ing embarrassingly  obvious,  particularly  among  textile  importers. 
Uncontrolled  urbanization  had  weakened  family  ties  and  had 
prompted  sharp  increases  in  unemployment,  underemployment, 
drug  use,  and  violent  crime,  (see  Crime  and  Punishment,  ch.  5). 
On  a  different  plane,  economic  austerity  had  abruptly  curtailed 
the  rising  expectations  of  the  middle  class  and  pitted  ethnic  groups 
against  one  another  in  the  competition  for  scarce  resources. 

Economic  austerity  also  exacerbated  tensions  between  Ivoirians 
and  resident  foreign  nationals.  Students  and  members  of  the  po- 
litical elite  expressed  resentment  over  the  continuing  presence  of 
French  nationals  in  important  government  positions.  Ivoirian  wage 
laborers  resented  competition  from  immigrants  from  Cote  d'lvoire's 
poorer  neighbors.  Dramatic  increases  in  violent  crime  were  at- 
tributed to  Ghanaians  and  business  corruption  to  the  Lebanese. 

Perhaps  more  important,  the  governing  institutions  created  by 
Houphouet-Boigny  to  mediate  conflict  were  weak  and  unrespon- 
sive. That  was  especially  true  of  the  state-owned  media,  which  care- 
fully managed  information  by  releasing  only  what  it  deemed 
harmless.  Consequentiy,  rumors  often  passed  for  news  on  the  streets 
of  Abidjan. 

Single-Party  Democracy 

Since  independence,  Ivoirian  leaders  had  insisted  that  the  PDCI 
have  no  opposition,  although  Article  7  of  the  Ivoirian  Constitu- 
tion specifically  guarantees  freedom  of  expression  to  "parties  and 


163 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


political  groups"  as  long  as  they  respect  the  principles  of  "demo- 
cracy and  national  sovereignty."  At  one  time,  some  political  lead- 
ers had  argued  for  a  legal — but  constrained — opposition  to  generate 
enthusiasm  for  elections  and  to  vent  political  pressures  that  might 
otherwise  threaten  the  position  of  the  governing  elite.  A  recognized 
opposition,  it  was  argued,  would  also  provide  Cote  d'lvoire  with 
some  of  the  forms — as  opposed  to  the  pretenses  already  in  place — of 
democracy.  However,  the  ruling  elite  and  even  some  dissidents  con- 
tinued to  believe  that  a  single-party  system  was  best  for  a  develop- 
ing country  like  Cote  d'lvoire,  where  class  and  regional  cleavages 
threatened  unity. 

Houphouet-Boigny  himself  had  always  considered  forging  a  na- 
tional constituency  out  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  more  than  sixty  ethnic 
groups  to  be  his  greatest  responsibility  if  his  economic  agenda  was 
to  be  achieved.  If  unchecked,  he  said,  rivalry  among  ethnic  groups 
or  geographical  regions  would  erode  nationalism  and  dissipate  valu- 
able resources  that  would  be  better  spent  on  economic  develop- 
ment. Left  unstated  was  the  concern  that  this  rivalry  also  would 
threaten  the  ruling  elite's  control  over  crucial  aspects  of  political 
life.  National  unity  therefore  came  to  mean  party  unity.  There  was 
room  for  opposition,  Houphouet-Boigny  insisted,  but  only  within 
the  party.  Thus,  in  the  early  years  of  independence  Houphouet- 
Boigny  promulgated  laws  that  severely  sanctioned  individuals  who 
published,  disseminated,  divulged,  or  reproduced  false  news  or 
documents  that,  in  good  or  bad  faith,  "undermined"  the  morale 
of  the  population,  discredited  political  institutions,  or  led  others 
to  disobey  laws.  With  virtually  all  avenues  for  criticism  closed,  plati- 
tudes replaced  political  debate. 

Although  generally  successful  at  co-opting  political  foes, 
Houphouet-Boigny  was  not  averse  to  bullying  his  opponents  when 
he  felt  they  threatened  stability.  He  stated  on  several  occasions  that 
if  forced  to  choose  between  disorder  and  injustice,  he  would  not 
hesitate  to  choose  injustice.  He  added  that  "When  there  is  disorder, 
the  lives  of  people  and  a  regime  are  at  stake,  but  an  injustice  can 
always  be  corrected."  Nonetheless,  he  resorted  to  force  only  rare- 
ly (see  Consolidation  of  Power,  ch.  1).  Cote  d'lvoire  had  no  preven- 
tive detention  laws  and,  by  its  own  definition,  no  political  prisoners, 
although  the  army,  under  instructions  from  Houphouet-Boigny, 
commonly  conscripted  political  foes  into  the  military  for  what  he 
called  "judicious  training." 

Succession 

By  early  1988,  Houphouet-Boigny  had  given  no  indication  of 
when  he  might  resign.  However,  there  were  increasingly  clear  signs 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


that  his  control,  like  his  health,  was  slipping.  To  avoid  the  kind 
of  damaging  and  embarrassing  circumstances  that  surrounded  the 
political  demise  of  Tunisian  leader  Habib  Bourguiba,  who  in  1987 
was  declared  unfit  to  govern,  senior  members  of  the  PDCI  pressed 
Houphouet-Boigny  to  step  down.  In  early  1988,  observers  reported 
that  Houphouet-Boigny  might  heed  their  advice  to  retire  by  year's 
end,  although  he  intended  to  remain  as  head  of  the  PDCI.  Presuma- 
bly, he  would  then  be  able  to  lend  his  authority  to  his  successor 
and  thereby  prevent  an  acrimonious  struggle  among  potential  con- 
tenders in  the  presidential  election  that,  according  to  the  Consti- 
tution, would  shortly  follow. 

Article  11  of  the  Ivoirian  Constitution,  amended  on  October  12, 
1985,  states  that  if  the  office  of  the  presidency  is  vacated  by  death, 
resignation,  or  incapacitation  as  attested  by  the  Supreme  Court, 
the  functions  of  the  president  shall  be  performed  on  a  provisional 
basis  by  the  president  of  the  National  Assembly.  After  at  least  forty- 
five  but  no  more  than  sixty  days,  elections  will  determine  the  new 
leader,  who  may  also  have  been  the  provisional  president.  As  presi- 
dent of  the  Assembly,  Henri  Konan  Bedie  appeared  to  have  an 
advantage  over  his  potential  rivals,  including  Yace.  At  the  same 
time,  Yace  appeared  to  have  a  larger  following  in  the  PDCI  Polit- 
ical Bureau,  where  the  ultimate  decision  would  be  made  if  there 
was  to  be  a  single,  unanimous  choice  by  the  party.  Much  of  Yace' s 
popularity  derived  from  his  years  of  faithful  service  to  state  and 
party.  As  younger  Ivoirians  replaced  older  party  stalwarts  in  the 
government  and  party,  Yace's  support  would  diminish  and  that 
of  Bedie,  his  chief  rival,  would  grow. 

By  mid- 1988  Houphouet-Boigny  had  avoided  naming  or  even 
suggesting  a  successor,  reportedly  believing  that  were  he  to  do  so, 
party  loyalty  would  split  between  the  heir  apparent  and  other  can- 
didates, his  own  power  would  shrink,  and  the  successor  he  selected 
would  immediately  become  the  target  of  political  criticism.  Con- 
sequently, the  president  allowed  the  political  process  to  take  its 
course,  which  led  to  a  standoff  between  Bedie  and  Yace,  the  two 
leading  candidates.  Houphouet-Boigny 's  decision  to  allow  politics 
to  determine  the  choice  also  demonstrated  his  belief  that  the  Ivoirian 
polity  was  sufficiently  mature  to  pursue  its  own  interests  without 
recklessly  endangering  the  system. 

Meanwhile,  the  succession  debate  continued.  Many  Ivoirians 
stressed  the  importance  of  choosing  a  member  of  a  minority  eth- 
nic group  as  a  compromise  acceptable  to  the  Baoule,  Bete,  Krou, 
Senoufo,  and  Mande  groups  (see  Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages, 
ch.  2).  Others  stressed  the  importance  of  choosing  an  elder  states- 
man, thus  avoiding  a  possible  crisis  of  confidence  should  a  younger, 


165 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


less  experienced  leader  be  named.  Still  others  insisted  that  choos- 
ing a  young,  educated  technocrat  was  the  only  way  to  resolve  the 
country's  daunting  economic  and  social  problems. 

Equity  Issues  and  Ethnic  Tensions 

Houphouet-Boigny  inherited  the  political  apparatus  of  the  nation- 
state  but  by  1988  had  not  yet  forged  bonds  uniting  citizens  of  diverse 
ethnicity  to  one  another  or  to  their  leaders.  Houphouet-Boigny  had 
dealt  with  ethnic  conflict  by  denouncing  ethnocentrism  as  a  legiti- 
mate issue  and  by  the  time-tested  strategy  of  co-opting  the  leader- 
ship of  potentially  dissident  ethnic  groups  by  incorporating  them 
in  the  party  or  governmental  bureaucracy.  Thus,  for  example,  from 
the  mid-1970s  the  Senoufo  in  the  north  were  overrepresented  in 
the  army,  and  southern  peoples  were  overrepresented  in  the  police 
and  National  Gendarmerie  (Gendarmerie  Nationale).  Meanwhile, 
Houphouet-Boigny  invariably  appointed  as  his  minister  of  defense 
a  member  of  the  Baoule,  who  were  also  overrepresented  in  the  Na- 
tional Security  Police  (Surete  Nationale),  and  appointed  a  Bete  chief 
of  staff  of  the  army. 

Ivoirianization 

From  time  to  time,  the  replacement  of  French  workers  with  Ivoiri- 
ans  became  a  political  issue.  Popular  resentment  of  the  French 
presence,  particularly  as  the  competence  of  Ivoirians  increased, 
emerged  periodically  in  the  form  of  student  strikes  and  anonymous 
political  tracts.  Especially  irksome  to  many  Ivoirians  were  the  highly 
paid  French  counterparts  to  Ivoirian  cabinet  ministers;  however, 
in  the  late  1980s  most  of  the  approximately  30,000  French  work- 
ers were  in  the  private  sector,  where  they  held  the  majority  of  all 
jobs  requiring  postsecondary  education.  Some  also  worked  in 
middle-level  white-collar  and  blue-collar  jobs.  There  were,  for  ex- 
ample, French  citizens  working  at  tasks  for  which  their  qualifica- 
tions in  no  way  distinguished  them  from  Ivoirian  employees  but 
who  nonetheless  received  substantially  higher  salaries.  Through- 
out the  country,  there  were  French  mechanics,  foremen,  planta- 
tion owners,  storekeepers,  clerical  workers,  and  supervisors.  French 
women  filled  many  of  the  top  secretarial  positions  and  thus  became 
special  targets  of  nationalist  resentment  (see  The  French,  this  ch.). 

Most  controversial  in  the  1980s  was  Houphouet-Boigny 's  ap- 
pointment of  Antoine  Cesareo  to  head  a  newly  created  superagency 
to  control  government  waste.  Cesareo  was  a  French  national  with 
a  reputation  as  an  incorruptible  and  efficient  public  servant.  The 
Public  Works  Authority  (Direction  et  Controle  des  Grands  Trav- 
aux — DCGTX),  which  Cesareo  headed  under  the  direct  control 


166 


The  Abidjan  skyline 
Courtesy  Eszti  Votaw 


of  Houphouet-Boigny,  supervised  virtually  all  government  contracts 
and  construction  projects.  By  1987  Cesareo  claimed  that  he  had 
overseen  some  US$3.3  billion  in  contracts  and,  by  avoiding  de- 
lays and  overruns,  had  saved  the  Ivoirian  government  US$2.6  bil- 
lion. However,  he  also  irritated  many  within  the  Ivoirian  political 
establishment,  one  of  whom  anonymously  pointed  out  that  Cote 
d'lvoire  was  the  only  country  in  Africa  to  accord  a  foreigner  a 
stranglehold  over  local  finances. 

Government  Responses 

As  serious  as  these  challenges  appeared,  processes  were  in  place 
to  lessen  their  impact.  For  example,  the  political  system  loosened 
perceptibly  as  opponents  of  Houphouet-Boigny  were  co-opted  and 
as  the  ruling  elite's  interests  in  the  status  quo  became  more  deeply 
entrenched.  By  the  late  1980s,  there  were  mechanisms — if  only 
rudimentary — for  publicly  registering  disagreement.  In  1980,  for 
the  first  time,  Houphouet-Boigny  permitted  open  elections  to  the 
National  Assembly.  Voters  promptly  replaced  sixty- three  of  the 
ninety  incumbents  seeking  reelection.  In  1985  open  elections  were 
expanded  to  include  local  party  and  municipal  offices  as  well  as 
assembly  seats.  (That  time,  voters  rejected  90  of  117  candidates 
seeking  reelection  to  the  National  Assembly.)  Other  avenues  for 
expressing  dissent  also  opened.  In  1987  the  state  began  broadcasting 


167 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


two  controversial  and  popular  shows:  one  featured  political  debate, 
albeit  over  carefully  limited  questions;  and  the  other,  political  sa- 
tire. Observers  construed  those  measures  as  part  of  a  continuing 
if  cautious  process  leading  to  a  more  mature,  democratic  political 
culture.  Moreover,  the  government  appeared  at  least  to  have  the 
support  of  important  opinion  makers.  In  contrast  to  the  popula- 
tions of  all  of  its  West  African  neighbors  who,  in  a  mid-1970s  poll 
taken  of  its  readers  by  Jeune  Afrique,  preferred  an  ambiguous  so- 
cialism for  their  economic  future,  almost  50  percent  of  the  maga- 
zine's Ivoirian  readers — who  were  probably  on  the  left  of  the 
political  spectrum — favored  an  equally  ambiguous  capitalism. 

Interest  Groups 

Labor 

In  the  1980s,  approximately  100,000  full-time  workers  in  the 
regulated  sectors  belonged  to  trade  unions.  Union  membership  was 
highest  among  white-collar  workers,  professionals,  civil  servants, 
and  teachers.  All  unions  except  the  National  Union  of  Secondary 
School  Teachers  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Syndicat  National  des  Enseig- 
nants  du  Secondaire  de  Cote  d'lvoire — SYNESCI)  were  part  of  a 
government-controlled  federation,  the  General  Federation  of  Ivoir- 
ian Workers  (Union  Generale  des  Travailleurs  de  Cote  d'lvoire — 
UGTCI),  which  counted  approximately  190  affiliates.  Its  sec- 
retary general  from  its  founding  until  1984  was  Joseph  Coffie, 
a  veteran  of  the  PDCI  and  trusted  companion  of  President 
Houphouet-Boigny.  In  1988  the  secretary  general  was  Hyacinthe 
Adiko  Niamkey. 

From  its  inception,  the  UGTCI  saw  itself  as  a  participant  in  de- 
velopment rather  than  a  combatant  on  behalf  of  labor.  In  that  role, 
the  UGTCI  supported  government  efforts  to  promote  unity  and 
development,  justifying  its  stance  as  helping  to  continue  the  struggle 
for  independence.  The  UGTCI  did  not  object  to  the  state's  de- 
velopment policies,  and  its  leaders  participated  in  government  policy 
debates,  thereby  becoming,  in  effect,  instruments  of  economic  de- 
velopment. 

Not  surprisingly,  the  UGTCI  exercised  little  political  or  economic 
clout.  Strikes  were  legal,  but  principals  first  had  to  complete  a 
lengthy  process  of  negotiation,  during  which  any  work  stoppage 
was  illegal.  Moreover,  demands  on  its  members  by  UGTCI  leader- 
ship seeking  more  efficient  production  counted  more  than  workers' 
complaints.  At  the  same  time,  the  UGTCI  exercised  a  modicum 
of  autonomy  in  protests  over  wages  and  the  pace  of  Ivoirianization. 
In  response,  the  guaranteed  urban  minimum  wage  had  been  raised 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


several  times  since  the  mid-1970s.  However,  wages  were  not  keep- 
ing pace  with  inflation. 

Wildcat  strikes  or  other  unsanctioned  job  actions  were  not  much 
more  productive.  In  dealing  with  job  actions,  the  government  first 
exploited  the  media  to  gain  sympathy  for  its  position  and  then  con- 
fronted strike  leaders  with  overwhelming  force.  Usually  the  govern- 
ment softened  its  position  by  rehiring  most  of  the  workers  previously 
dismissed  and  by  compromising  on  peripheral  matters.  Underlying 
problems  remained  unresolved  or  were  settled  in  accordance  with 
government  intentions.  In  1985,  after  16,892  parastatal  workers, 
many  of  whom  were  highly  paid  professionals,  staged  a  job  action 
to  protest  deep  wage  cuts,  the  government  threatened  to  fire  all 
workers  who  refused  to  honor  the  government's  deadline  and  to 
replace  them  with  unemployed  university  graduates.  Eventually 
the  government  fired  342  holdouts.  At  other  times,  the  govern- 
ment dissolved  the  refractory  union,  thus  depriving  any  strike  of 
legitimacy  and  the  union  of  any  recourse. 

Military 

The  Ivoirian  armed  forces  consisted  of  three  services,  all  small 
and  lightly  equipped  (see  Constitutional,  Legal,  and  Administra- 
tive Structure,  ch.  5).  With  the  exception  of  military  training  exer- 
cises and  a  small,  regional  revolt  in  1970,  as  of  mid- 1988  the  military 
had  remained  in  its  barracks.  It  played  no  role  in  domestic  peace- 
keeping, in  the  drive  for  modernization,  or  in  mobilizing  the  popu- 
lation. Unlike  its  counterpart  in  neighboring  states,  the  Ivoirian 
officer  corps  viewed  itself  as  a  distinct  profession  under  civilian  con- 
trol. The  presence  of  a  French  battalion  based  near  Port  Bouet  rein- 
forced the  importance  of  maintaining  professional  norms  of  service. 
Moreover,  Houphouet-Boigny  kept  military  salaries  attractive  and 
named  officers  to  high  positions  in  the  PDCI,  in  effect  assimilat- 
ing the  military  elite.  Greater  contact  between  the  civilian  elite 
and  military  officers  led  to  social  integration  and  completed  the 
co-optation  of  the  military.  With  a  solid  stake  in  the  "Ivoirian  mira- 
cle," the  senior  officer  corps  had  little  interest  in  altering  the  sta- 
tus quo.  With  the  passage  of  time,  psychological  inertia  further 
institutionalized  civilian  control,  and  the  civil  bureaucracy  gained 
experience,  expertise,  and  confidence. 

Many  events  had  the  potential  to  precipitate  future  military 
intervention  in  domestic  politics.  These  would  include  a  stalemate 
in  the  Political  Bureau  of  the  PDCI  over  a  successor  to  Houphouet- 
Boigny,  the  emergence  of  an  incompetent  administration,  extreme 
economic  austerity  coupled  with  a  declining  franc,  and  widespread 


169 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

unrest  led  or  supported  by  students,  unions,  or  the  urban  unem- 
ployed. As  an  institution  with  an  untainted  past,  the  military  could, 
in  any  of  these  cases,  be  called  upon  to  lead  a  movement  promis- 
ing a  return  to  stability  and  greater  access  to  economic  resources 
for  less  favored  groups.  Nevertheless,  given  the  broadening  base 
of  the  party,  the  politics  of  co-optation,  the  as  yet  inchoate  class 
struggle,  and  the  division  of  peacekeeping  responsibility  among  the 
Surete  Nationale  and  the  armed  forces,  most  observers  agreed  that 
government  control  over  the  military  would  probably  continue. 

The  French 

Cote  d'lvoire's  ties  to  France  had  grown  stronger  since  indepen- 
dence in  1960.  Although  the  number  of  French  advisers  continued 
to  shrink,  between  1960  and  1980  the  total  French  population  in 
Cote  d'lvoire  nearly  doubled,  from  about  30,000  to  close  to  60,000, 
forming  the  largest  French  expatriate  community.  By  1988,  as  Cote 
d'lvoire's  economy  continued  to  contract,  about  half  of  the  French 
either  returned  to  France  or  moved  elsewhere  in  Africa.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  four  out  of  five  resident  French  had  lived  in  Cote 
d'lvoire  for  more  than  five  years.  French  citizens  filled  technical 
and  advisory  positions  in  the  government,  albeit  in  diminishing 
numbers,  but  were  also  evident  throughout  the  private  sector.  Until 
1985  Cote  d'lvoire  also  had  the  highest  number  of  teaching  and 
nonteaching  French  cooperants  (see  Glossary)  in  Africa,  the  highest 
number  of  students  in  French  universities,  the  highest  number  of 
French  multinationals  in  all  of  Africa,  the  largest  percentage  of 
French  imports  and  exports  in  Africa,  the  highest  number  of  non- 
routine  French  diplomatic  visitors  of  all  African  countries,  and, 
with  Senegal,  was  the  recipient  of  the  largest  French  aid  package 
in  Africa.  Cote  d'lvoire  also  hosted  the  highest  average  number 
of  visits  by  the  French  head  of  state  per  year. 

On  a  formal  level,  a  series  of  agreements  and  treaties  have  en- 
sured the  continuation  and  extension  of  French  influence  in  diplo- 
matic, military,  legal,  commercial,  monetary,  political,  and  cultural 
affairs,  although  most  of  these  agreements  were  modified  over  the 
years  to  accommodate  the  sensitivities  and  growing  political  sophisti- 
cation of  Ivoirians.  Perhaps  most  significant  for  the  future  were 
joint  defense  treaties  and  the  permanent  basing  of  the  French  ma- 
rine battalion  at  Port  Bouet.  Although  it  had  never  interceded  in 
Ivoirian  politics,  the  battalion's  presence  provided  an  implicit  warn- 
ing against  political  or  military  action  that  might  create  instability 
and  jeopardize  French  interests.  The  colonial  heritage  and  con- 
temporary realities  suggested  that  France  would  remain  Cote 


170 


Government  and  Politics 


d'lvoire's  principal  commercial  partner,  albeit  in  increasing  com- 
petition with  other  states. 

The  Levantine  Community 

In  the  late  1980s,  reportedly  60,000  to  120,000  Lebanese  and 
Syrians  lived  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  although  some  observers  gave  a 
figure  as  high  as  300,000.  Many  descended  from  families  that  had 
been  established  in  Cote  d'lvoire  for  more  than  a  century.  Along 
with  the  French,  they  were  the  most  easily  identifiable  foreign 
group.  They  generally  resided  in  enclaves,  married  within  their 
community,  and  resisted  integration.  At  the  same  time,  many  held 
Ivoirian  citizenship.  Although  they  were  concentrated  in  Abidjan, 
there  was  a  Lebanese  or  Syrian  family  or  two  in  virtually  every 
community  of  more  than  5,000  people.  Some  members  of  the 
Levantine  community  were  Christian;  of  the  Muslims,  most  were 
Shia.  Significantly,  the  waves  of  Lebanese  emigres  who  arrived 
in  Cote  d'lvoire  after  the  Lebanese  civil  war  began  in  1975  brought 
with  them  the  same  political  beliefs  that  divided  groups  in  Leba- 
non. As  of  the  mid-1980s,  violence  among  Lebanese  had  not  erupted 
in  Cote  d'lvoire;  nevertheless,  the  government  considered  sectar- 
ian violence  a  distinct  possibility. 

The  Arab  community  was  known  for  its  entrepreneurial  skills 
and  had  long  played  a  leading  role  in  certain  intermediate  sectors 
of  the  economy,  especially  commerce.  The  Arabs  dominated  in 
areas  such  as  textiles,  shoes,  petroleum  distribution,  and  coffee  and 
cocoa  brokering.  The  Lebanese  had  also  invested  heavily  in  urban 
real  estate  and  were  among  the  first  to  develop  hotels  and  restau- 
rants in  previously  less  accessible  areas  of  the  interior.  For  the  most 
part,  Houphouet-Boigny  ardently  defended  the  presence  of  the 
Lebanese  community,  citing  its  contributions  to  the  Ivoirian  econ- 
omy. The  Lebanese  community,  in  turn,  sought  to  assure  the 
Ivoirian  leadership  of  its  loyalty  and  its  commitment  to  national 
goals  by  public  declarations  and  by  charitable  contributions  in  sup- 
port of  cultural  and  sporting  events. 

The  jump  in  the  Levantine  population  since  1975,  coupled  with 
its  growing  domination  of  commerce,  made  it  a  target  of  increas- 
ing protest.  In  the  mid-1980s,  Houphouet-Boigny  began  issuing 
warnings  to  merchants — unmistakably  Lebanese — who  were  al- 
legedly guilty  of  customs  fraud  and  monopolistic  practices.  Thus, 
the  unconditional  welcome  that  the  Lebanese  community  had  en- 
joyed appeared  to  be  wearing  out. 

Students  and  Intellectuals 

Student  radicalism  has  had  a  long  history  in  francophone  Africa. 
It  originated  in  post-World  War  II  France,  where  most  students 


171 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

from  the  colonies  studied.  Students  favored  independence  long  be- 
fore Houphouet-Boigny  and  the  PDCI  lobbied  for  it,  and  neither 
the  president  nor  the  party  escaped  student  criticism.  In  1988  stu- 
dents were  generally  concerned  with  scholarships,  student  aid,  and 
housing,  although  they  were  also  the  most  outspoken  group  in  the 
nation  on  the  issues  of  succession,  Ivoirianization,  and  one-party 
democracy. 

The  PDCI  sought  to  control  student  dissent  by  co-optation  or  out- 
right repression.  It  placed  the  Movement  of  Primary  and  Second- 
ary School  Students  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Mouvement  des  Etudiants  et 
Eleves  de  Cote  d'lvoire — MEECI),  the  official  student  organization, 
under  the  umbrella  of  the  PDCI,  and,  when  necessary,  the  govern- 
ment impressed  student  leaders  into  the  army.  Typically,  however, 
the  government  followed  repression  with  clemency,  and  then  sought 
to  co-opt  student  leaders.  In  1988  no  fewer  than  four  former  MEECI 
presidents  were  members  of  the  PDCI  Executive  Committee. 

In  the  1980s,  Laurent  Gbagbo  gained  recognition  as  the  intellec- 
tual leader  of  an  incipient  movement  seeking  a  more  open  politi- 
cal system.  A  historian  living  in  exile,  Gbagbo  was  Cote  d T voire 's 
best  known  opposition  figure.  In  two  books,  which  were  banned 
in  Cote  d'lvoire,  Gbagbo  attacked  the  PDCI  regime  as  conspira- 
torial, opportunistic,  and  corrupt.  He  was  involved  in  disturbances 
at  the  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (formerly  the  Univer- 
sity of  Abidjan)  in  1982,  after  which  he  fled  to  Paris.  There  he 
founded  an  opposition  party,  the  Ivoirian  People's  Front  (Front 
Populaire  Ivoirien — FPI),  which  called  for  a  multiparty  democracy. 
Although  the  FPI  had  no  formal  membership,  it  gained  a  small 
following  in  Abidjan  among  students,  intellectuals,  civil  servants, 
and  some  unions. 

Foreign  Relations 

Houphouet-Boigny  treated  foreign  policy  as  his  personal  domain. 
Following  independence,  his  long-term  foreign  policy  objective  had 
been  to  enhance  economic  development  and  political  stability  in 
Cote  d'lvoire.  That  objective  was  manifested  in  foreign  policies 
that  sought,  first,  to  maintain  an  organic  relationship  with  France, 
Cote  d'lvoire's  principal  and  most  consistent  donor  and,  second, 
to  control  the  regional  environment  in  order  to  guarantee  access 
to  cheap  labor  from  Mali  and  Burkina  Faso. 

Although  Cote  d'lvoire  eschewed  close  links  with  the  Soviet 
Union  and  its  allies,  Ivoirian  policymakers  were  nominally  disposed 
toward  treating  all  foreign  powers  equally.  One  former  minister 
of  foreign  affairs  insisted  that  Cote  d'lvoire  was  the  foe  of  no  ideol- 
ogy or  any  regime.  Nevertheless,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  no  diplomatic 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


ties  with  the  Soviet  Union  from  1969,  when  relations  with  Moscow 
were  severed,  until  February  1986.  Only  a  month  earlier,  the  cabi- 
net had  approved  a  measure  to  reestablish  ties  with  Czechoslovakia, 
Hungary,  Albania,  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many), and  the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Korea  (North 
Korea).  Relations  with  Romania  and  Poland  had  already  been  re- 
established several  years  earlier. 

Closer  to  its  borders,  Cote  d'lvoire  alternatively  befriended  or 
attempted  to  isolate  the  rulers  of  the  five  states  that  surrounded 
it:  Liberia,  Guinea,  Mali,  Burkina  Faso,  and  Ghana.  Recogniz- 
ing that  "the  oasis  never  encroaches  upon  the  desert,"  Houphouet- 
Boigny  sought  to  cultivate  mutually  beneficial  ties  with  these  five 
states,  while  allowing  economic  and  political  differences  to  persist. 
Military  leaders  in  the  neighboring  states  allowed  their  nationals 
to  enter  the  Ivoirian  labor  pool,  which  eased  a  serious  unemploy- 
ment problem  in  their  respective  countries.  Through  the  Council 
of  the  Entente  (Conseil  de  l'Entente),  in  which  Cote  d'lvoire  is 
by  far  the  dominant  power  and  largest  contributor,  the  Ivoirians 
aided  Burkina  Faso,  Niger,  Benin,  and  Togo.  Houphouet-Boigny 
also  scored  a  diplomatic  triumph  in  1985  when  he  brokered  a  peace 
agreement  ending  the  border  conflict  between  Burkina  Faso  and 
Mali.  Houphouet-Boigny  also  facilitated  Guinea's  return  to  the 
franc  zone. 

Foreign  Relations  and  the  Council  of  the  Entente 

The  Council  of  the  Entente  was  established  on  May  29,  1959, 
by  the  heads  of  state  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  Upper  Volta  (present-day 
Burkina  Faso),  Dahomey  (present-day  Benin),  and  Niger.  (Togo 
became  a  member  in  1966.)  Ostensibly,  the  Council  of  the  En- 
tente coordinated  the  regulations  and  statutes  of  member  states 
governing  finance,  justice,  labor,  public  service,  health,  and  com- 
munications. The  Council  of  the  Entente  also  initiated  steps  toward 
forming  a  customs  union,  integrating  development  plans,  and  creat- 
ing a  development  fund,  the  Solidarity  Fund  (later  known  as  the 
Loan  Guaranty  Fund).  Each  member  state  was  to  contribute  10 
percent  of  government  revenues  to  the  fund.  Cote  d'lvoire,  the 
leader  of  the  Council  of  the  Entente  and  by  far  the  wealthiest  mem- 
ber state,  was  to  receive  only  a  small  portion  of  the  redistributed 
funds;  other  members  were  entitled  to  larger  shares.  In  fact,  by 
1988  Cote  d'lvoire  had  never  touched  its  share. 

The  Council  of  the  Entente  helped  Houphouet-Boigny  achieve 
his  long-term  regional  foreign  policy  objectives.  First,  by  allying 
himself  with  three  desperately  poor  countries  that  could  be  expected 
to  maintain  close  ties  with  France  for  years  to  come,  he  built  a 


173 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


broader  base  to  counter  Senegal's  attempts  to  isolate  Cote  d'lvoire 
and  reestablish  some  sort  of  federation  of  West  African  francophone 
states  that  would  presumably  be  centered  at  Dakar.  The  demise 
of  the  Mali  Federation  in  1960  appeared  to  vindicate  Houphouet- 
Boigny's  strategy  (see  Reform  and  the  French  Community,  ch.  1). 
He  subsequently  enlisted  the  Council  of  the  Entente  states  to  iso- 
late the  government  of  Ghana,  which  had  supported  a  massive  anti- 
government  protest  in  the  Sanwi  area  of  Cote  d'lvoire  and  was 
linked  to  a  plot  to  overthrow  Niger's  President  Hamani  Diori.  After 
Ghana's  President  Kwame  Nkrumah  was  ousted  in  a  1966  coup, 
Houphouet-Boigny  sought  diplomatic  support  from  the  Council 
of  the  Entente  states  in  his  feud  with  President  Ahmed  Sekou  Toure 
of  Guinea.  Sekou  Toure  routinely  accused  Houphouet-Boigny  of 
harboring  Guinean  exiles;  he  also  threatened  to  send  troops  across 
Cote  d'lvoire  to  Ghana  to  restore  Nkrumah,  by  then  a  refugee  in 
Guinea,  to  power. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  populist  and  nationalist  sentiments  surging 
within  the  Council  of  the  Entente  member  states  threatened  Cote 
d'lvoire 's  staid  leadership  of  the  alliance.  Togo,  which  was  sur- 
rounded by  radical  states,  remained  a  staunch  ally;  however, 
Burkina  Faso  and  Benin  increasingly  criticized  Houphouet-Boigny 's 
conservativism  and  strengthened  their  ties  with  Libya  and  Ghana. 
As  a  result,  the  Council  of  the  Entente's  value  as  an  instrument 
of  Ivoirian  foreign  policy  diminished. 

Relations  with  Ghana,  Burkina  Faso,  Guinea,  and  Mali 

The  tone  of  Ivoirian-Ghanaian  relations  had  varied  widely  since 
independence.  Cote  d'lvoire  regarded  the  government  of  Flight 
Lieutenant  Jerry  Rawlings,  who  overthrew  a  civilian  regime  in 
1983,  with  a  mixture  of  disdain,  contempt,  and  wariness.  Rela- 
tions with  Ghana  declined  in  the  mid-1980s  after  Rawlings  and 
Burkina  Faso's  leader  Thomas  Sankara  appeared  to  ally  themselves 
with  Libyan  leader  Muammar  al  Qadhafi.  In  November  1987, 
Ghana  condemned  Cote  d'lvoire  for  granting  landing  rights  to 
South  African  military  and  commercial  aircraft,  championing  the 
Zionist  cause  in  Africa,  undermining  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU)  resolutions,  isolating  Burkina  Faso  in  West  African  coun- 
cils, and  permitting  Abidjan  to  become  a  haven  for  hostile  South 
African,  Israeli,  and  Western  intelligence  services.  At  the  same  time, 
the  two  states  worked  together  harmoniously  to  end  smuggling  in 
both  directions  across  their  common  border. 

Relations  with  Burkina  Faso,  a  traditional  source  of  agricultural 
labor,  were  historically  cordial,  but  they  degenerated  sharply  in 
the  wake  of  the  coup  that  brought  Thomas  Sankara  to  power  in 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


August  1983.  Sankara  soon  made  common  cause  with  the  Raw- 
lings  government  in  Ghana,  further  raising  suspicions  in  Abidjan. 
Following  Libyan  deliveries  of  military  equipment  to  Burkina  Faso, 
Ivoirian  authorities  investigated  alleged  arms  trafficking  between 
Burkina  Faso  and  Cote  d'lvoire. 

Tensions  between  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Burkina  Faso  increased 
sharply  in  early  1985  following  the  alleged  mistreatment  of  Bur- 
kinabe immigrants  in  Cote  d'lvoire  and  the  assassination  of  a 
prominent  Burkinabe  businessman  in  Abidjan.  In  September  1985, 
hours  before  Sankara  was  to  arrive  in  Cote  d'lvoire  for  a  Council 
of  the  Entente  summit  meeting,  a  bomb  exploded  in  a  hotel  room 
he  was  to  occupy.  Sankara  blamed  forces  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  although 
no  one  claimed  responsibility  and  no  one  was  arrested.  In  defi- 
ance of  other  Council  of  the  Entente  members,  Sankara  refused 
to  sign  the  summit  communique,  rejected  the  expansion  of  the  En- 
tente charter  to  include  security  cooperation,  indirecdy  accused  Cote 
d'lvoire  and  Togo  of  victimizing  resident  Burkinabe  and  shelter- 
ing opponents  to  his  regime,  and  called  for  the  creation  of  an  inter- 
nationalist and  populist  "Revolutionary  Entente  Council."  Two 
years  later,  in  October  1987,  Sankara  was  killed  during  a  coup  led 
by  his  second  in  command,  Captain  Blaise  Compaore.  Compaore 
immediately  reassured  Cote  d'lvoire  that  he  wanted  warmer  rela- 
tions and  later  pledged  to  strengthen  ties  with  the  Council  of  the 
Entente  countries.  For  its  part,  Cote  d'lvoire  reaffirmed  its  "readi- 
ness to  engage  in  trustworthy,  brotherly,  and  lasting  cooperation 
with  this  neighboring  and  brotherly  country." 

Following  Guinea's  abrupt  break  with  and  estrangement  from 
France  in  1958,  Sekou  Toure  adopted  a  socialist  domestic  policy, 
supported  Nkrumah's  pan- African  ideology,  and  sought  close  re- 
lations with  communist,  socialist,  and  radical  Third  World  states. 
Not  unexpectedly,  ties  with  Abidjan  became  strained.  Following 
Sekou  Toure 's  death  in  1984  and  the  advent  of  a  moderate,  re- 
formist military  regime  in  Conakry,  Ivoirian  relations  with  Guinea 
improved  considerably. 

Ivoirian  relations  with  Mali  and  Liberia,  although  far  from  warm, 
were  decidedly  less  confrontational  than  those  with  Guinea,  Bur- 
kina Faso,  and  Ghana.  Abidjan  and  Bamako  maintained  a  rela- 
tively stable  relationship  that  varied  between  cordial  and  correct, 
despite  Mali's  flirtations  with  Marxism  in  the  1960s  and  1970s. 
Likewise,  the  peculiar  conservatism  of  the  Liberian  regimes  both 
before  and  after  the  April  1980  coup  posed  no  inherent  threat  to 
Cote  d'lvoire.  However,  the  unexpected  and  shockingly  bloody 
Liberian  coup  greatly  alarmed  Abidjan  and  prompted  fears  of  a 
coup  plot  in  Cote  d'lvoire. 


175 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Relations  with  Other  African  States 

Cote  d'lvoire  maintained  diplomatic  relations  with  all  the  states 
of  West  Africa  and  nearly  all  francophone  countries  on  the  conti- 
nent. It  supported — and  was  most  strongly  supported  by — the  most 
conservative  of  African  francophone  countries,  such  as  Zaire, 
Gabon,  and  Niger.  Nigeria,  which  had  vast  oil  deposits  and  the 
largest  population  in  Africa,  presented  a  special  challenge  to  Ivoirian 
leaders,  who  feared  the  radical  Marxism  and  militant  Islam  that 
stirred  different  segments  of  the  Nigerian  polity.  Consequentiy,  in 
the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s  Houphouet-Boigny  adopted  policies 
intended  to  weaken  Nigeria.  Cote  d'lvoire  supported  Biafra  in  the 
Nigerian  Civil  War  (1966-70),  and  in  1973,  with  its  francophone 
neighbors,  organized  the  Economic  Community  of  West  Africa 
(Communaute  Economique  de  l'Afrique  Occidentale — CEAO)  to 
counter  the  Nigerian-led  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS). 

Cote  d'lvoire' s  policy  toward  South  Africa  contrasted  sharply 
with  the  antiapartheid  stance  common  across  the  continent.  In  keep- 
ing with  his  antirevolutionary  fervor,  Houphouet-Boigny  insisted 
that  opening  a  dialogue  with  South  Africa  was  far  more  effective 
than  posturing  and  calls  for  sanctions.  In  1970  he  sponsored  an 
exchange  of  visits  at  the  ministerial  level.  Although  trade  with  South 
Africa  was  officially  banned  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  some  South  African 
produce  was  freely  available  in  Ivoirian  markets.  In  late  1987,  Cote 
d'lvoire  further  distanced  itself  from  its  African  counterparts  by 
granting  South  African  Airways  landing  rights  for  flights  between 
Johannesburg  and  Europe.  Again,  Houphouet-Boigny  justified  the 
decision  as  a  positive  effort  to  pressure  South  Africa. 

Relations  with  France 

Time  and  again,  the  president  has  reminded  fellow  Ivoirians  that 
their  closest  and  best  friend  was  France  and  that  France  made  daily 
sacrifices  for  Cote  d'lvoire  by  offering  protected  markets  and  mili- 
tary assistance.  He  insisted  that  France  maintained  troops  near 
Abidjan  as  a  favor  to  ensure  Cote  d T voire 's  security  without  im- 
pinging on  its  larger  development  plans. 

A  treaty  of  cooperation  (the  Franco-Ivoirian  Technical  Military 
Assistance  Accord — Accord  d'Assistance  Militaire  Technique) 
signed  on  April  24,  1961,  outlined  the  salient  aspects  of  Franco- 
Ivoirian  ties.  It  provided  for  the  exchange  of  ambassadors  between 
the  two  countries,  named  the  French  ambassador  to  Abidjan  the 
dean  of  the  diplomatic  corps,  and  reserved  a  "privileged  position" 
among  diplomats  in  Paris  for  the  Ivoirian  ambassador.  The  treaty 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


also  called  for  regular  consultations  between  the  two  countries  on 
foreign  policy  matters.  France  agreed  to  protect  and  represent  Ivoir- 
ian  interests  in  any  country  or  international  organization  where 
there  was  no  Ivoirian  representation.  Additional  cooperation 
agreements  signed  at  the  same  time  covered  economic  matters,  edu- 
cation, civil  aviation,  judicial  affairs,  telecommunications,  and  tech- 
nical and  military  assistance. 

The  French  government  agreed  to  continue  providing  aid  to  Cote 
dT voire  for  a  period  of  five  years,  with  a  provision  for  five-year 
extensions.  By  encouraging  such  long-range  commitments,  the 
agreement  enhanced  French  economic  influence  in  Cote  d'lvoire. 

Concomitantly,  Houphouet-Boigny  began  implementing  poli- 
cies that  diverged  albeit  in  several  minor  respects  from  French  pol- 
icy. In  1972  he  had  Cote  d'lvoire  vote  against  admitting  China 
to  the  United  Nations,  and  until  1985,  in  contradistinction  to 
France,  he  labeled  China  and  the  Soviet  Union  as  threats  to  Africa. 
In  the  Middle  East,  Cote  d'lvoire  had  been  a  staunch  supporter 
of  Israel  since  1967,  although  during  much  of  this  time  France  regu- 
larly took  positions  more  favorable  to  the  Arabs. 

Houphouet-Boigny' s  reliance  on  French  private  investment  and 
government  loans,  coupled  with  his  devotion  to  French  culture, 
determined  his  stand  on  virtually  every  foreign  policy  issue.  In  the 
early  1960s,  for  example,  he  urged  negotiations  to  resolve  the 
Algerian  Revolution  and,  unlike  many  of  his  African  counterparts, 
refused  to  condemn  France  as  the  responsible  party  and  refused 
to  provide  Algeria  with  any  material  assistance.  Meanwhile, 
Houphouet-Boigny  also  supported  French  nuclear  testing  in  the 
Sahara.  Houphouet-Boigny  also  defended  French  military  inter- 
vention in  Africa. 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

Relations  between  Washington  and  Abidjan  were  cordial  if  less 
intimate  than  the  ties  with  Paris.  Through  the  mid-1980s,  Cote 
d'lvoire  was  Africa's  most  loyal  supporter  of  the  United  States  in 
the  United  Nations  General  Assembly.  It  supported  the  larger 
United  States  agenda  on  Chad,  the  Western  Sahara,  southern 
Africa,  and  Israel.  The  government  strongly  approved  of  moves 
by  the  United  States  against  Libyan  head  of  state  Qadhafi,  espe- 
cially in  light  of  rumors  that  Libyans  in  Burkina  Faso  were  recruit- 
ing and  training  agents  to  infiltrate  Cote  d'lvoire.  United  States 
secretary  of  state  George  Shultz  visited  Abidjan  in  1986  following 
Houphouet-Boigny' s  visit  to  Washington  in  1983. 

The  United  States  continued  to  be  Cote  d T voire 's  leading  trad- 
ing partner  after  France.  Foreign  policymakers  in  Washington 


177 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


continued  to  point  to  Cote  d'lvoire  as  an  exemplar  of  successful 
capitalism,  even  as  Cote  d'lvoire's  debt  mounted  out  of  control. 
While  enjoying  a  favorable  image  in  the  United  States,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  has  indirectly  criticized  the  United  States  by  attacking  the 
system  of  international  trade,  which  the  United  States  supported 
unequivocally,  but  which  Houphouet-Boigny  claimed  was  respon- 
sible for  his  country's  economic  ills. 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  China 

Since  independence,  Houphouet-Boigny  has  considered  the 
Soviet  Union  and  China  malevolent  influences  throughout  the 
Third  World.  Cote  d'lvoire  did  not  establish  diplomatic  relations 
with  Moscow  until  1967,  and  then  severed  them  in  1969  following 
allegations  of  direct  Soviet  support  for  a  1968  student  protest  at 
the  National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire.  The  two  countries  did 
not  restore  ties  until  February  1986,  by  which  time  Houphouet- 
Boigny  had  embraced  a  more  active  foreign  policy  reflecting  a  more 
pragmatic  view  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  his  quest  for  greater  inter- 
national recognition. 

Houphouet-Boigny  was  even  more  outspoken  in  his  criticism  of 
China.  He  voiced  fears  of  an  "invasion"  by  the  Chinese  and  their 
subsequent  colonization  of  Africa.  He  was  especially  concerned  that 
Africans  would  see  the  problems  of  development  in  China  as  analo- 
gous to  those  of  Africa,  and  China's  solutions  as  appropriate  to 
sub-Saharan  Africa.  Accordingly,  Cote  d'lvoire  did  not  normal- 
ize relations  with  China  until  1983,  becoming  one  of  the  last  Afri- 
can countries  to  do  so. 

Relations  with  Israel 

From  the  early  1960s,  Houphouet-Boigny  openly  admired  Is- 
rael's application  of  technology  to  economic  development.  In  1962 
the  two  countries  signed  a  cooperation  agreement  and  exchanged 
ambassadors.  For  its  part,  Israel  provided  aid,  primarily  in  the  form 
of  technical  expertise,  to  the  Ivoirian  military  and  to  the  agricul- 
tural, tourism,  and  banking  sectors. 

In  spite  of  the  close  ties  between  the  two  countries,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  supported  the  OAU  decision  to  sever  ties  with  Israel  fol- 
lowing the  October  1973  War.  Nonetheless,  the  two  countries  main- 
tained close  if  informal  links  that  enabled  Israel  to  continue  to 
participate  in  the  Ivoirian  economy.  In  February  1986,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  announced  the  long-awaited  resumption  of  diplomatic  re- 
lations. Moreover,  the  Ivoirian  embassy  was  again  to  be  located 
in  Jerusalem,  in  defiance  of  a  1980  United  Nations  (UN)  Security 
Council  resolution  calling  on  all  countries  to  withdraw  their 


178 


Government  and  Politics 

embassies  from  that  city.  The  PDCI,  presumably  with  Houphouet- 
Boigny's  authorization,  however,  subsequently  voted  to  honor  the 
UN  resolution  and  moved  the  embassy  to  Tel  Aviv. 

In  its  diplomacy  at  the  UN  and  other  multinational  forums,  Cote 
dT voire  remained  firmly  committed  to  the  West.  That  commit- 
ment did  not  change  through  1988 — nor  was  it  expected  to — espe- 
cially since  the  Ivoirian  economy  required  continuing  support  from 
Western  sources  of  funding.  Nor  were  there  expected  to  be  sig- 
nificant foreign  policy  changes  under  a  successor  to  the  aging 
Houphouet-Boigny,  since  the  consensus  among  the  elite  on  domestic 
and  foreign  policy  issues  was  holding,  even  as  the  political  maneu- 
vering and  skirmishing  among  possible  replacements  intensified. 

*    *  * 

Because  of  its  regional  importance,  its  close  identification  with 
the  West,  and  its  spectacular  economic  growth  through  the  1960s 
and  1970s,  the  literature  on  government  and  politics  in  Cote 
dT  voire  is  rich  and  accessible.  The  principal  sources  of  background 
material  for  this  study  include  the  following  texts:  One-Party  Govern- 
ment in  the  Ivory  Coast  by  Aristide  R.  Zolberg;  The  Political  Economy 
of  Ivory  Coast,  edited  by  I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher 
Delgado;  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire,  edited  by  Y.  A.  Faure 
and  J.-F.  Medard;  and  Michael  A.  Cohen's  Urban  Policy  and  Polit- 
ical Conflict  in  Africa.  Especially  useful  for  their  critical  perspective 
are  Marcel  Amondji's  Cote  dTvoire:  Le  PDCI  et  la  vie  politique  de  1944 
a  1985  and  Laurent  Gbagbo's  Cote  dTvoire:  Pour  une  alternative  democra- 
tique,  as  well  as  several  articles  by  Bonnie  Campbell.  Two  small 
but  valuable  texts  on  Ivoirian  political  institutions  are  Albert 
Aggrey's  Guide  des  institutions  politiques  et  administratives  and  Hugues 
Tay's  L} Administration  ivoirienne.  Sources  for  contemporary  repor- 
tage include  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  Africa  Contemporary  Record,  the 
Country  Reports  published  by  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  and 
the  periodicals  Africa  Confidential,  Africa  Research  Bulletin,  Fraternite 
matin,  Jeune  Afrique,  and  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneens.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


179 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Gold  leaf  over  wooden  sculpture  of  a  leopard,  a  symbol  of  power  among 
Akan 


ITS  ADMIRERS  HAVE  lauded  Cote  dTvoire's  international 
security  policy  as  moderate,  pragmatic,  flexible,  realistic,  conser- 
vative, and  responsible;  its  critics  have  derided  it  as  reactionary 
and  neocolonialism  Its  principal  objective,  according  to  President 
Felix  Houphouet-Boigny,  was  to  maintain  regional  peace  and 
security  in  order  to  promote  economic  development  at  home. 
Diplomacy — rather  than  the  threat  of  military  intervention — was 
the  vehicle  he  employed  to  achieve  this  objective. 

Cote  dT voire  does  not  have  a  long  or  distinguished  national  mili- 
tary history.  Even  after  the  country  gained  independence  in  1960, 
the  Ivoirian  military  continued  to  rely  on  French  advisers,  troops, 
and  military  aid.  The  military  structure  and  the  culture  of  French 
colonial  rule  remained  virtually  intact  in  the  nascent  Ivoirian  na- 
tion, preserved  by  Houphouet-Boigny' s  deliberate  reliance  on  the 
former  colonial  power  for  security  guarantees  and  assistance.  Con- 
sequently, the  Franco-Ivoirian  relationship  had  a  profound  impact 
on  the  organization,  mission,  materiel,  and  political  behavior  of 
the  armed  forces.  Whereas  at  least  half  of  the  countries  in  Africa 
were  under  military  rule  in  the  mid-1980s,  and  all  but  a  few  had 
experienced  at  least  one  successful  military  coup  d'etat,  the  Ivoir- 
ian army  was  notably  quiescent.  The  armed  forces  of  Cote  dT  voire 
were  not  actively  involved  in  the  independence  movement.  They 
had  not  fought  in  any  foreign  wars,  executed  any  coups,  or  had  to 
defend  the  country  from  external  aggression.  In  early  1988,  they 
remained  a  relatively  small,  lightly  armed,  and  politically  mute  force, 
heavily  influenced  by  French  doctrine,  equipment,  and  advisers. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  central  mission  of  the  Ivoirian  armed  forces 
was  self-defense.  The  military  was  not  prepared  by  doctrine  or  avail- 
able resources  for  offensive  operations.  The  armed  forces  had 
modest  overland  mobility,  some  light  weaponry,  and  limited  armor 
and  air  defense  capabilities;  the  navy  was  suited  only  for  coastal 
defense  missions;  and  the  air  force,  with  its  small  fleet  of  aircraft, 
could  carry  out  only  token  air  defense,  interdiction,  transport,  and 
support  operations.  The  air  force  had  no  helicopters  for  tactical 
mobility  or  attack.  With  the  establishment  in  1984  of  a  radar  net- 
work linking  Bouake  and  Yamoussoukro,  some  territorial  surveil- 
lance was  possible,  but  the  military  had  no  long-range  ground  or 
maritime  surveillance  capability. 

These  limited  resources  were  consistent  with  the  national  defense 
policy  and  mission  and  appeared  adequate  and  appropriate  in  the 


183 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

context  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  regional  security  needs.  Cote  d'lvoire 
had  a  larger  military  establishment  than  any  of  its  immediate  neigh- 
bors. Although  in  1987  the  armies  of  Ghana  and  Guinea — with 
9,000  and  8,500  troops,  respectively — were  technically  larger  than 
Cote  d'lvoire's  armed  forces,  their  equipment  was  neither  numeri- 
cally nor  qualitatively  superior.  Until  the  mid-1980s,  Ghana  had 
a  substantially  larger  navy  (numbering  1,200  personnel),  but  it  had 
no  offensive  capability.  Only  the  Malian  air  force,  with  twenty- 
seven  combat  aircraft,  posed  a  potential  threat. 

Armed  Forces 

In  the  1980s,  the  Ivoirian  armed  forces  had  a  dual  mission:  to 
defend  the  nation  from  attack  and  internal  subversion  and  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  socioeconomic  development  of  the  country.  They 
had  no  overt  political  role,  although  it  was  understood  that  they 
were  to  support  the  regime.  To  avoid  diverting  resources  from  na- 
tional economic  development,  Houphouet-Boigny  kept  the  armed 
forces  relatively  small  and  lightly  armed.  Compensating  for  the 
limited  capacity  of  the  armed  forces  was  a  strategic  doctrine  that 
relied  on  external  military  support  from  France.  The  government 
consciously  sought  to  avoid  conflicts  or  arms  races  with  its  neigh- 
bors and  eschewed  pan- African  defense  missions. 

Early  Development 

Cote  d'lvoire's  armed  forces  developed  from  the  colonial  mili- 
tary forces  organized  by  France  after  the  formal  establishment  of 
the  colony  in  1893.  Although  Cote  d'lvoire  was  a  separate  colony, 
France  set  up  a  regional  military  command  structure  for  all  of 
French  West  Africa  (Afrique  Occidentale  Francaise — AOF;  see 
Glossary).  The  command  headquarters  was  located  at  Dakar, 
Senegal,  and  Cote  d'lvoire  was  integrated  into  a  regional  defense 
structure.  Its  African  forces  were  organized  into  regiments  of 
Senegalese  Irregulars  (Tirailleurs  Senegalais),  whose  name  revealed 
the  centralized  character  of  the  colonial  administration  and  the 
subordinate  status  of  the  vast  expanses  of  the  AOF  beyond  the 
Senegalese  hinterland.  This  externalization  and  regionalization  of 
Ivoirian  defense  persisted  after  independence  in  the  form  of  the 
Council  of  the  Entente  (Conseil  de  1' Entente),  the  security  of  whose 
member  states  continued  to  be  guaranteed  by  France. 

Between  1908  and  1912,  when  four-year  conscription  was  in- 
troduced by  the  governor  general  of  the  AOF,  the  number  of  Afri- 
cans serving  in  the  Tirailleurs  Senegalais  grew  from  13,600  to 
22,600.  At  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I  in  August  1914,  of  the 
nearly  31,000  black  troops  under  French  arms,  about  half  were 


184 


National  Security 


deployed  outside  of  the  AOF  and  French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique 
Equatoriale  Francaise — AEF),  underpinning  French  imperialism 
in  Morocco,  Algeria,  and  Madagascar.  During  World  War  I,  about 
164,000  black  soldiers  were  recruited  into  the  AOF  for  service  in 
Europe  and  elsewhere. 

In  Cote  d'lvoire,  pacification  and  conscription  continued  even 
as  France  was  fighting  for  its  survival.  Between  October  1914  and 
February  1916,  approximately  13,500  Ivoirians  were  trained  for 
military  service.  All  told,  about  20,000  Ivoirian  soldiers  fought  for 
France  during  the  war.  Many  others  resisted  recruitment,  which 
was  widely  regarded  as  the  heaviest  of  the  colonial  exactions.  A 
major  wartime  revolt  had  to  be  put  down  by  force.  The  colony 
suffered  a  sharp  decrease  in  its  standard  of  living  because  of  the 
various  war- related  levies. 

During  World  War  II,  France  again  called  upon  its  colonies  to 
fulfill  manpower  levies.  Before  France  fell  in  1940,  over  100,000 
men  had  been  recruited  from  French  West  Africa  alone,  includ- 
ing 30,000  from  Cote  d'lvoire.  After  the  armistice,  the  Vichy 
government  increased  the  size  of  its  peacetime  army  by  recruiting 
an  additional  50,000  Africans,  while  another  100,000  Africans 
served  under  the  Free  French  between  1943  and  1945.  Thus,  over 
200,000  Africans  fought  on  behalf  of  France  during  the  war. 

Although  the  Vichy  government  further  intensified  the  burdens 
of  colonialism,  in  the  aftermath  of  the  war  the  colonial  regime  was 
gradually  dismantied  to  make  way  for  independent  nations.  By  1950 
the  essential  defense  and  internal  security  apparatus  that  would 
be  bequeathed  to  Cote  d'lvoire  after  independence  was  in  place. 
Defense  was  entrusted  to  a  single  army  battalion  with  four  com- 
panies: three  were  based  at  Bouake,  and  the  fourth  was  at  Man, 
with  an  armored  reconnaissance  unit  at  Abidjan.  Internal  secu- 
rity was  the  responsibility  of  the  National  Security  Police  (Surete 
Nationale).  This  division  of  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Security  copied 
French  organization  and  had  a  headquarters  element,  four  mobile 
brigades,  a  security  service,  and  a  central,  colonial  police  force. 
These  units  were  reinforced  by  a  local  constabulary  {gardes  cercles) 
organized  by  the  army  and  a  local  detachment  of  the  regional 
gendarmerie.  During  the  1950s,  administrative  powers  devolved 
to  the  colonies  of  the  AOF.  Defense  and  foreign  affairs  remained 
the  responsibility  of  the  colonial  authorities.  Even  at  independence 
in  1960,  no  provision  was  made  for  an  Ivoirian  national  armed 
force. 

Not  until  after  the  April  1961  Franco-Ivoirian  Technical  Mili- 
tary Assistance  Accord  (Accord  d 'Assistance  Militaire  Technique), 
more  than  a  year  after  independence,  was  a  national  army  formed 


185 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

from  indigenous  members  of  the  French  colonial  marines.  These 
troops  formed  a  single,  undermanned  battalion  and  used  equip- 
ment donated  by  France.  By  the  end  of  1962,  the  armed  forces 
had  expanded  rapidly  to  about  5,000  soldiers  organized  into  four 
battalions.  For  the  new  military  establishment,  independence  was 
more  formal  than  functional:  French  influence  remained  para- 
mount, delaying  the  emergence  of  an  autonomous  Ivoirian  identity. 

Constitutional,  Legal,  and  Administrative  Structure 

Like  its  French  model,  the  Cote  dTvoire  Constitution  of  1960 
provides  for  a  highly  centralized  form  of  government  that  vests  enor- 
mous power  in  the  office  of  the  president,  particularly  in  the  areas 
of  national  sovereignty,  independence,  territorial  integrity,  and  mili- 
tary and  security  affairs  (see  The  Constitution,  ch.  4).  Article  17 
empowers  the  president  to  appoint  the  civil  and  military  officers 
of  the  state,  and  Article  18  designates  the  president  commander 
in  chief  of  the  armed  forces.  The  president  is  authorized  by  Arti- 
cle 19  to  take  "such  exceptional  measures  as  are  required"  to  deal 
with  serious  and  immediate  threats  to  national  independence,  ter- 
ritorial integrity,  or  the  execution  of  international  commitments. 
The  National  Assembly  (Assemblee  Nationale)  is  empowered  to 
pass  laws  regarding  martial  law,  states  of  emergency,  and  the  prin- 
ciples of  national  defense  organization  (Article  41)  and  to  declare 
war  (Article  42).  The  Council  of  Ministers,  over  which  the  presi- 
dent presides,  is  authorized  by  Article  43  to  declare  martial  law, 
which  may  be  extended  beyond  two  weeks  only  by  the  National 
Assembly. 

In  1988  three  main  interministerial  councils  and  advisory  bod- 
ies were  concerned  with  coordinating  the  various  departments  and 
soliciting  technical  advice  in  matters  of  defense.  Chaired  by  the 
president,  the  Defense  Committee  consisted  of  the  ministers  con- 
cerned with  defense  policy  and  the  chief  of  staff;  it  met  to  make 
government  decisions  in  defense  matters.  The  High  Defense  Coun- 
cil, which  included  the  inspector  general  and  chief  of  staff  of  the 
armed  forces  and  the  commandant  of  the  National  Gendarmerie 
(Gendarmerie  Nationale),  provided  technical  military  advice,  justifi- 
cations, and  recommendations  to  the  Defense  Committee.  The 
High  Committee  on  Intelligence,  which  was  under  the  authority 
of  the  president,  guided  and  coordinated  record  keeping,  documen- 
tation, and  intelligence  services. 

Defense  organization  had  both  central  and  regional  components. 
At  the  national  level,  the  president  was  the  supreme  authority.  As 
commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  the  president  directed  and 


186 


National  Security 


coordinated  defense  policy.  The  president  was  assisted  in  this  by 
the  minister  of  defense  and  by  other  ministers  as  required. 

The  minister  of  defense  had  two  distinct  but  related  functions: 
assisting  the  president  in  all  defense  matters  and  executing  mili- 
tary policy.  In  the  exercise  of  these  functions,  the  minister  of  defense 
had  direct  authority  over  the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces,  who 
also  served  as  commander  of  all  the  armed  forces,  and  the  inspec- 
tor general  of  the  armed  forces,  who  was  responsible  for  central 
administration  (see  fig.  14). 

There  has  been  remarkable  continuity  in  the  senior  civilian  and 
military  defense  posts.  Jean  Konan  Banny  served  as  minister  of 
defense  in  the  early  1960s,  until  he  was  implicated  in  a  1963  coup 
plot.  His  successor,  Kouadio  M'Bahia  Ble,  served  as  minister  of 
defense  for  more  than  seventeen  years,  from  September  1963  to 
February  1981,  before  the  pardoned  and  politically  rehabilitated 
Banny  returned  to  the  post.  The  first  chief  of  staff,  Brigadier  General 
Thomas  D'Anquin  Wattara  (who  in  August  1966  became  the  first 
Ivoirian  general),  held  that  post  between  1961  and  1974.  Wattara's 
successors,  however,  have  had  shorter  tenures.  In  November  1987, 
President  Houphouet-Boigny  replaced  the  most  senior  army  officers 
with  new  men;  Brigadier  General  Felix  Ory  succeeded  Major 
General  Bertin  Zeze  Baroan  as  chief  of  staff,  and  Brigadier  Joseph 
Ballou  replaced  retiring  Major  General  Ibrahim  Coulibaly  as  in- 
spector general.  In  December  1987,  the  Ministry  of  Defense  ab- 
sorbed the  Ministry  of  Maritime  Affairs,  and  Banny  became 
minister  of  defense  and  maritime  affairs. 

By  decree  in  November  1963,  the  minister  of  defense  was  em- 
powered to  carry  out  government  policy  in  military  matters;  to  es- 
tablish and  oversee  the  National  Service  (Service  Civique),  an 
organization  in  which  young  men  and  women  participated  in  the 
economic  development  of  the  country,  especially  in  the  rural  areas; 
to  review  the  organization  of  the  armed  forces,  the  National  Gen- 
darmerie, and  the  National  Service  and  to  present  plans  to  the  presi- 
dent as  required;  to  administer  and  evaluate  the  mobilization  and 
use  of  the  armed  forces  and  military  requirements;  to  oversee  vet- 
erans affairs;  to  prepare  and  execute  budgets  and  programs  for  the 
ministry;  and  to  present  to  the  president  or  the  Defense  Commit- 
tee all  proposals  for  international  negotiation  concerning  defense 
matters. 

In  1984  the  ministry's  headquarters  staff  was  budgeted  for  529 
billets  (including  31  French  technical  assistance  personnel).  Most 
of  the  billets  were  allocated  as  follows:  the  cabinet  received  46;  the 
Central  Administrative  Services,  244;  the  Armed  Forces  of  Cote 
d'lvoire  (Force  Armee  Nationale  de  Cote  d'lvoire — FANCI),  116; 


187 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


MINISTRY  OF  DEFENSE 
AND  MARITIME  AFFAIRS 

1 

1 

[ 

ARMED 
FORCES 
CHIEF 
OF  STAFF 

COUNCIL 
OF 

MINISTERS 

NAVY 

AIR 
FORCE 

GENDARMERIE 
NATIONALE 

1ST  MILITARY 
REGION 
(ABIDJAN) 


2D  MILITARY 
REGION 
(DALOA) 


3D  MILITARY 
REGION 
(BOUAKE) 


4TH  MILITARY 
REGION 
(KORHOGO) 


INSPECTOR 
GENERAL 


DIRECTORATE  OF 
ADMINISTRATIVE 
AND  LEGISLATIVE 
AFFAIRS 


DIRECTORATE  OF 
FINANCIAL  AFFAIRS 


DIRECTORATE 

OF  DEFENSE 

DIRECTORATE 
OF  STUDIES 
AND  PROGRAMS 


MEDICAL 
SERVICES 


MILITARY 
JUSTICE  SERVICE 


MIITARY  SECURITY 
SERVICES 


1ST  LEGION 
(ABIDJAN) 


2D  LEGION 
(DALOA) 


3D  LEGION 
(BOUAKE) 


4TH  LEGION 
(KORHOGO) 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Cote  Ivoire,  Ministere  de  l'lnformation,  Annuaire 
Administratif,  1985;  and  United  States,  Department  of  the  Army,  Abidjan  Report, 
No.  6  851  5020  85,  November  21,  1985. 


Figure  14.  Organization  of  Ivoirian  Defense  Forces,  1988 


the  Ivoirian  Air  Force  (Force  Aerienne  de  Cote  d'lvoire — FACI), 
81;  and  the  Presidential  Guard  and  Militia  (Garde  Presidentielle 
et  Milice— GPM),  7. 

Since  May  1972,  local  defense  organization  has  been  based  on 
a  territorial  division  of  responsibility  between  the  civilian  prefec- 
tures (prefectures)  under  the  minister  of  interior  and  the  military 
regions  under  the  minister  of  defense.  This  arrangement  superseded 
a  system  of  departmental  commands.  The  minister  of  interior, 


188 


National  Security 


supported  as  required  by  the  minister  of  defense,  was  responsible 
for  civil  defense.  Initially,  three  military  regions  were  established 
with  headquarters,  at  Abidjan,  Daloa,  and  Bouake.  In  July  1984, 
the  country  was  reorganized  into  four  military  regions.  The  fourth 
region  was  centered  at  Korhogo  in  order  to  provide  better  defense 
coverage  in  the  sparsely  populated  but  politically  sensitive  north- 
ern territories.  In  each  prefecture,  the  prefect  (prefet)  was  respon- 
sible for  all  nonmilitary  matters  having  a  bearing  on  defense  (see 
Local  Government,  ch.  4).  On  the  regional  level,  the  military  com- 
mandant was  specifically  charged  with  defense  responsibilities.  This 
system  required  close  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the 
regional  military  commanders  and  the  civilian  prefects.  Each  mili- 
tary garrison  was  under  a  commanding  officer,  who  represented 
the  regional  commandant  and  whose  functions  were  prescribed  by 
decree  in  December  1971. 

The  military  regions  provided  active-duty  forces  and  an  adminis- 
trative structure  for  civilian  and  military  defense  planning.  Each 
region  comprised  between  six  and  twelve  prefectures  under  a  ter- 
ritorial commander  who  reported  to  the  minister  of  defense  through 
the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces.  The  regions  provided  liaison 
service  for  the  local  political  and  administrative  authorities,  pre- 
pared plans  for  the  protection  of  sensitive  military  and  civilian  assets 
in  the  region,  coordinated  regional  and  local  military  and  civilian 
defense  measures,  maintained  operational  readiness,  and  conducted 
military  exercises  as  required.  The  regional  military  commands 
did  not  have  any  organic  logistical  resources  but  rather  drew  on 
central  support  services. 

Defense  Mission  and  National  Policy 

In  1987  the  armed  forces  consisted  of  about  14,920  regular  and 
paramilitary  personnel,  organized  into  FANCI,  the  navy,  FACI, 
the  National  Gendarmerie,  the  Presidential  Guard  and  Militia,  and 
the  Military  Fire  Brigade.  Although  the  National  Gendarmerie  was 
an  integral  part  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  Maritime  Affairs, 
its  mission  related  more  to  internal  security  than  to  external  defense 
(see  Internal  Security,  this  ch.). 

The  effective  strength  of  the  army  was  about  3,000  troops  dur- 
ing the  early  1970s.  It  increased  to  4,000  during  the  mid-1970s, 
and  to  more  than  8,000  by  the  early  1980s,  before  declining  stead- 
ily to  about  5,500  by  1987.  FANCI  was  equipped  lightly  and  almost 
exclusively  with  French  materiel,  much  of  which  was  delivered  dur- 
ing 1980  and  1981 ,  when  the  army  experienced  its  greatest  expan- 
sion (see  table  9,  Appendix). 


189 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Headquarters  elements  included  a  general  staff,  headquarters  and 
logistics  companies,  commissariat  service,  and  materiel  service.  The 
main  combat  elements  were  the  four  infantry  battalions  of  three  com- 
panies each,  stationed  in  the  four  military  regions.  The  First  Bat- 
talion at  Port  Bouet  near  Abidjan  included  two  infantry  companies, 
a  paratroop  company,  and  an  air  defense  unit.  An  armored  battal- 
ion with  two  squadrons  also  was  stationed  in  the  Abidjan  region, 
along  with  the  Military  Preparatory  Technical  Academy  (Ecole 
Militaire  Preparatoire  Technique — EMPT)  at  Bingerville.  The  Sec- 
ond Battalion  at  Daloa  consisted  of  three  infantry  companies.  In 
the  Third  Military  Region  at  Bouake  was  the  Third  Battalion,  con- 
sisting of  three  infantry  companies,  a  heavy  weapons/artillery  bat- 
tery, an  antiaircraft  artillery  battalion,  an  engineering  battalion  with 
a  combat  engineer  company,  two  construction  companies,  and  a 
training  company.  The  Fourth  Military  Region  at  Korhogo  was  still 
being  established,  and  in  1986  a  new  command  battalion  and  a  dog- 
handling  center  were  reported  to  have  been  formed. 

Until  December  1987,  the  Ivoirian  navy  (Marine  Nationale)  was 
part  of  the  Ministry  of  Maritime  Affairs,  which  was  also  responsi- 
ble for  the  merchant  marine.  In  July  1974,  Captain  Lamine  Fadika 
became  the  first  Ivoirian  minister  of  maritime  affairs,  replacing 
an  expatriate.  In  December  1987,  Fadika  was  removed  from  office, 
and  the  ministry  was  incorporated  into  the  Ministry  of  Defense 
and  Maritime  Affairs  under  Banny. 

The  navy's  mission  was  limited  to  coastal  and  river  patrols  and 
harbor  defense,  and  its  primary  emphasis  was  on  protecting  the 
environment  and  fighting  fires.  The  ministry  planned  to  restruc- 
ture the  navy  into  two  coastal  patrol  squadrons  as  additional  fast 
attack  craft  were  acquired.  Naval  headquarters  were  at  the  main 
naval  base  at  Locodjo,  near  Abidjan;  smaller  bases  were  at 
Sassandra,  San-Pedro,  and  Tabou,  all  on  the  southwestern  coast. 
The  navy  expanded  from  about  200  personnel  in  1970,  to  400  in 
1980,  to  about  700  in  the  late  1980s,  maintaining  a  ratio  of  officers 
to  enlisted  men  of  1  to  10.  It  had  a  small  but  versatile  force  of  war- 
ships, auxiliaries,  and  service  craft.  Most  of  these  were  French  craft, 
commissioned  in  the  late  1970s  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  The  navy 
was  also  reported  to  have  a  commando  group  and  one  light  trans- 
port aircraft.  The  independent  merchant  marine  fleet  consisted  of 
more  than  sixty  vessels,  including  three  tankers. 

FACI  was  basically  a  military  transportation  and  liaison  ser- 
vice rather  than  a  combat  force.  This  mission  was  reflected  in 
FACFs  official  name,  Ivoirian  Air  Transport  and  Liaison  (Groupe- 
ment  Aerien  de  Transport  et  de  Liaison — GATL).  Like  FANCI, 
FACI  was  an  independent  service  arm  of  the  Ministry  of  Defense 
and  Maritime  Affairs.  In  1988  Colonel  Abdoulaye  Coulibaly  was 


190 


President  Houphouet-Boigny  inspecting  the  troops 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  Washington 

the  FACI  commander,  having  assumed  that  post  from  a  French 
officer  in  1974.  FACI  had  only  about  200  personnel  through  the 
1970s.  It  then  entered  a  period  of  expansion,  reaching  an  estimated 
strength  of  930  in  the  mid-1980s.  Organizationally,  FACI  consisted 
of  a  headquarters  staff  with  operational,  technical,  and  general  ser- 
vices sections  and  also  various  field  activities  and  air  bases. 

FACFs  one  small  combat  aircraft  squadron  consisted  of  six  French 
Dassault-Breguet  light  attack/trainer  Alpha  Jets,  obtained  during 
1980  and  1981.  The  squadron  was  stationed  at  the  Bouake  air  base, 
which  opened  in  December  1980.  Some  of  FACFs  original  light 
transport  planes,  including  three  Fokker  F-27s  and  four  F-28s,  were 
transferred  in  1979  to  the  national  airline,  Air  I  voire,  and  several 
old  transports  (three  C-47s,  five  MH-1521  Broussard  light  trans- 
ports, and  one  Mystere  20)  have  been  retired  from  service.  In  1987, 
in  addition  to  the  Alpha  Jets,  FACFs  aircraft  consisted  of  twenty 
fixed- wing  aircraft  and  eleven  helicopters  used  for  training,  light 
transport,  ferrying  of  dignitaries,  and  communications  and  utility 
missions.  Pilots  received  training  on  French  Aerospatiale  Rallye  160 
and  Rallye  235  aircraft,  two  Reims  Aviation/  Cessna  150Hs,  and 
six  Beech  F33C  Bonanzas  (see  table  10,  Appendix). 

FACI  operated  from  a  number  of  strategically  situated  air 
bases.  Port  Bouet  near  Abidjan  was  the  main  base  for  FACI,  along 
with  the  First  Military  Region/FANCI  Battalion,  the  paratroop 


191 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


company,  and  the  air  defense  forces.  Other  major  bases  were  in  the 
southwest  at  Daloa  (the  headquarters  of  the  Second  Military  Region/ 
FANCI  Battalion)  and  in  the  populous  central  savanna  at  Bouake 
(site  of  the  Third  Military  Region/FANCI  Battalion),  which  included 
a  heavy  weapons  battery,  an  antiaircraft  artillery  battalion,  and 
the  engineering  battalion.  Yamoussoukro,  Sassandra,  San-Pedro, 
Tabou,  Man,  Seguela,  Odienne,  and  Korhogo  also  had  airfields. 

The  remaining  component  of  the  armed  forces  having  a  combat 
mission  was  the  GPM.  President  Houphouet-Boigny  formed  the 
GPM  to  serve  as  a  paramilitary  counterweight  to  FANCI  after  the 
1963  military  coup  plot  and  to  provide  personal  protection  to  the 
president.  In  1986  the  militia  was  estimated  to  have  had  1,500  per- 
sonnel; the  Presidential  Guard,  1,100.  GPM  members  were  recruited 
largely  from  the  National  Gendarmerie  and  were  organized  into  two 
units,  one  based  in  Abidjan  and  the  other  at  Yamoussoukro. 

Recruitment  and  Conditions  of  Service 

According  to  the  Constitution,  the  burden  of  national  defense 
is  shared  by  all  citizens  of  Cote  d'lvoire.  As  of  June  1961 ,  military 
service  for  all  male  citizens  was  required  by  law.  Although  nomi- 
nally compulsory,  military  service  in  fact  was  not  universal.  The 
small  size  of  the  armed  forces  and  the  large  number  of  volunteers 
made  conscription  virtually  unnecessary.  In  general,  conscription 
seemed  to  have  been  reserved  for  a  handful  of  troublesome  stu- 
dents and  striking  workers. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire 's  population  included  at  least 
2.5  million  males  aged  fifteen  to  forty-nine,  of  whom  about  1.3 
million  were  believed  to  be  fit  for  military  service.  Active  service 
varied  from  one  to  two  years  and  normally  included  both  military 
and  civic  training.  Active  service  also  could  be  spent  in  National 
Service  work  or  working  for  state  enterprises.  The  period  for  reserve 
service  was  twenty-three  years.  In  general,  all  Ivoirian  citizens  could 
be  required  to  perform  certain  duties  in  the  national  interest  under 
the  rubric  of  military  service.  The  National  Service  was  designed 
particularly  with  this  purpose  in  mind,  and  it  was  primarily  to  this 
organization  that  young  women  were  called  to  serve. 

The  pay,  living  conditions,  and  benefits  available  in  the  armed 
forces  were  relatively  attractive  and  compared  favorably  with  alter- 
native employment  opportunities;  however,  they  were  not  lavish. 
The  government  attempted  to  strike  a  prudent  balance  by  pro- 
viding institutional  support  and  emoluments  sufficient  to  sustain 
satisfaction  and  loyalty  without  transforming  the  military  into  an 
unduly  privileged  elite.  Nonetheless,  some  senior  officers  unethi- 
cally profited  from  their  temporary  assignments  to  state  enterprises, 
although  corruption  was  not  as  widespread  as  in  many  other  African 


192 


National  Security 


countries.  To  some  extent,  military  and  security  personnel  were 
exempt  from  "salary  alignments"  and  the  impact  of  austerity  mea- 
sures introduced  in  the  early  1980s. 

Officers  were  recruited  through  the  Military  Academy  (Ecole 
des  Forces  Armees — EFA)  at  Bouake  or  by  promotion  from  the 
ranks  of  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs).  Career  NCOs  were 
recruited  from  among  those  who  had  at  least  five  years'  active  ser- 
vice. Promotions  for  officers  were  almost  exclusively  by  merit  selec- 
tion. Officers  were  generally  retired  when  they  attained  the  age 
limit  for  their  grade.  The  highest  rank  in  the  navy  was  admiral; 
in  FANCI  and  FACI,  it  was  general  (see  fig.  15;  fig.  16).  All  mili- 
tary personnel  were  subject  to  obligations,  regulations,  and  dis- 
ciplinary rules  prescribed  by  government  decree.  Career  military 
personnel  were  prohibited  from  striking  or  joining  trade  unions; 
were  obliged  to  serve  both  day  and  night;  and  were  required  to 
obtain  authorization  to  marry,  travel  outside  their  garrisons,  ex- 
press their  opinions  publicly,  or  join  outside  associations. 

Military  justice  was  enforced  by  both  administrative  and  judi- 
cial means,  depending  on  the  severity  of  the  offense.  The  military 
courts  had  jurisdiction  over  members  of  the  armed  forces  who  were 
accused  of  crimes  unrelated  to  any  other  offenses  within  the  juris- 
diction of  any  other  court,  crimes  committed  while  carrying  out 
military  duties  or  while  conducting  operations  to  maintain  peace 
and  public  order,  or  crimes  committed  inside  the  military  estab- 
lishment or  against  the  security  of  the  state.  Unlike  the  civil  and 
criminal  court  system,  the  military  justice  system  had  no  court  of 
appeals.  The  Supreme  Court  occasionally  has  been  asked  to  review 
and  set  aside  a  military  tribunal's  verdict  and  to  order  a  retrial 
(see  Judical  System,  ch.  4). 

Training 

Before  independence,  military  training  was  conducted  almost 
exclusively  by  French  personnel  either  on  the  job  or  at  institutions 
in  France,  Senegal,  and  Cote  dTvoire.  Most  training  was  based 
on  informal  arrangements.  Only  a  few  officers  and  NCOs  were 
sent  to  France  for  advanced  professional  and  technical  training. 
Since  independence,  as  it  has  acquired  the  necessary  expertise,  Cote 
dTvoire  has  assumed  responsibility  for  training  its  own  armed 
forces.  In  November  1961,  France  transferred  the  EMPT  located 
at  Bingerville  to  the  new  Ivoirian  government.  At  that  time,  the 
school  taught  only  specialized  technical  subjects,  such  as  commu- 
nications and  automotive  mechanics.  Because  the  new  government 
intended  to  use  the  military  as  a  means  to  promote  the  ethos  of 
national  service  and  to  teach  skills  relevant  to  national  development, 


193 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


National  Security 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

the  programs  were  immediately  expanded  to  include  agricultural 
and  construction  skills. 

Since  assuming  control  of  the  EMPT  at  Bingerville,  FANCI 
gradually  expanded  the  curriculum.  Students  entered  the  academy 
after  their  first  year  of  secondary  education  and  remained  there 
throughout  secondary  school  (see  Education,  ch.  2).  Students  took 
military  training  and  academic  courses  simultaneously  through- 
out the  program.  Initially,  the  curriculum  stressed  technical  and 
vocational  subjects,  but  by  1988  it  was  expanding  to  include  courses 
in  the  humanities  and  social  sciences  so  that  graduates  would  qualify 
for  entrance  into  universities  in  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Europe.  Stu- 
dents were  admitted  to  the  school  following  a  competitive  exami- 
nation, and  graduates  could  either  enter  FANCI  with  a  commission 
or  proceed  to  college.  About  86  percent  of  those  admitted  com- 
pleted the  program  and  graduated.  In  addition  to  training  Ivoir- 
ian  students,  the  Bingerville  academy  also  accepted  pupils  from 
other  francophone  African  countries,  such  as  Niger,  Burkina  Faso, 
Gabon,  Senegal,  and  Central  African  Republic.  The  school  had 
a  French  commandant  and  employed  both  military  and  civilian 
faculty,  including  a  sizable  number  of  French  instructors.  In  1982 
the  school  was  reported  to  have  almost  500  students,  more  than 
40  French  civilian  professors,  and  several  French  military  in- 
structors. 

In  July  1963,  FANCI  established  its  own  school,  the  EFA,  at 
Bouake.  The  EFA  subsequently  became  a  regional  military  train- 
ing center  serving  francophone  West  Africa.  It  also  was  headed 
by  a  French  commandant.  The  EFA  selected  officer  and  NCO  can- 
didates between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  twenty-five  by  competi- 
tive written  and  oral  examinations  administered  annually;  officer 
candidates  had  to  hold  a  baccalaureate  degree.  By  1983,  the  twen- 
tieth anniversary  of  the  EFA,  251  Ivoirian  officers  and  48  officers 
from  Gabon,  38  from  Togo,  32  from  Senegal,  20  from  Central  Afri- 
can Republic,  15  from  Niger,  7  from  Burkina  Faso,  and  6  from 
Chad  had  received  commissions  from  the  school. 

Until  1983  all  training  for  FACI  pilots  was  provided  in  France 
in  a  four-year  program  of  instruction.  Following  a  1982  Franco- 
Ivoirian  agreement,  however,  a  basic  pilots'  training  school  was 
opened  at  the  Bouake  air  base  in  April  1983.  France  provided  the 
aircraft,  operating  budget,  and  materiel  for  the  one-year  program. 
By  1986  enrollees  also  included  non-Ivoirians.  Ivoirian  students 
were  selected  by  FACI,  and  the  training  was  conducted  by  the 
French  aircraft  manufacturer  Aerospatiale.  The  program  included 
140  hours  of  training.  Graduates  were  awarded  a  pilot's  license 
and  went  to  France  for  further  flight  training  in  transports  or  jets, 


196 


National  Security 


depending  on  their  aptitude.  Officer  candidates  had  to  meet  ad- 
vanced mathematics  qualifications,  and  NCOs  were  required  to 
have  completed  the  equivalent  of  one  year  of  postsecondary  edu- 
cation. On  the  basis  of  the  selection  examination,  candidates  were 
divided  into  three  groups  for  specialized  duties.  Candidates  who 
scored  the  highest  could  become  pilots;  those  who  scored  in  the 
middle  group  could  become  mechanics  or  communications  tech- 
nicians; and  those  who  scored  in  the  lowest  category  could  be  trained 
for  other  occupations.  Mechanics,  communications  technicians,  and 
most  other  specialists  were  trained  in  Cote  d'lvoire.  Because  of 
its  small  size  and  the  specialized  technical  expertise  required,  FACI 
recruited  for  officers  and  NCO  candidates  through  selective  ex- 
aminations given  only  once  a  year. 

The  Ministry  of  Maritime  Affairs  had  also  operated  a  number 
of  training  institutions  for  Ivoirian  and  West  African  naval  and 
merchant  marine  personnel.  These  schools  were  transferred  to 
the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  Maritime  Affairs  in  December  1987. 
In  1975  plans  were  unveiled  for  a  regional  1 ,500-student  naval/ 
merchant  marine  academy  in  Abidjan  to  serve  the  needs  of  the  Eco- 
nomic Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  and  other 
inter- African  organizations  to  which  Cote  d'lvoire  belonged.  By 
1983  several  training  facilities  were  in  operation,  including  the  Mer- 
chant Marine  Training  Academy,  the  Academy  of  Oceanographic 
Sciences  and  Technology,  the  Regional  Maritime  Instruction 
Center,  and  the  Center  for  Antipollution  Control.  These  regional 
training  institutions  and  others  were  supported  by  the  United 
Nations,  the  European  Development  Fund,  and  other  international 
organizations.  Several  countries,  particularly  France  and  Japan, 
also  provided  aid.  France  supplied  most  of  Cote  dTvoire's  naval 
craft  as  well  as  maritime  training;  Japan  furnished  the  Navy's  only 
training  ship,  trained  Ivoirian  naval  officers,  contributed  more  than 
US$500,000  toward  the  construction  of  the  Abidjan  Naval  Acad- 
emy, and  participated  in  the  phased  expansion  of  the  Naval  Acad- 
emy and  the  Abidjan  port  facilities. 

Foreign  Influences 

France  has  been  the  dominant  foreign  influence  on  Ivoirian  secu- 
rity concerns.  France  maintained  its  position  through  several  in- 
stitutional and  informal  arrangements.  The  most  important  was 
the  mutual  defense  pact  of  the  Entente  Agreement  of  1959.  By  this 
agreement,  French  forces  guaranteed  internal  and  external  secu- 
rity of  the  Council  of  the  Entente  members.  This  relationship  was 
strengthened  by  the  supplementary  quadripartite  military  ac- 
cords of  April  24,  1961,  among  France,  Cote  d'lvoire,  Niger,  and 


197 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

Dahomey  (present-day  Benin).  In  addition,  the  Franco-Ivoirian 
Technical  Military  Assistance  Accord  of  1961  reaffirmed  France's 
position  as  the  chief  supplier  of  military  aid,  training,  and  equip- 
ment. These  agreements  secured  for  France  a  virtual  monopoly 
of  external  military  assistance  to  Council  of  the  Entente  countries, 
legitimized  the  continued  presence  of  French  armed  forces  on  their 
soil,  and  served  as  justification  for  occasional  direct  military  inter- 
ventions. Thus,  the  national  military  forces  of  francophone  Africa, 
together  with  the  French  forces  stationed  among  them  and  France's 
rapid  deployment  forces  (forces  d' intervention),  formed  a  transcon- 
tinental defense  network  that  served  both  local  security  needs  and 
French  global  interests.  Although  the  level  of  French  military  as- 
sistance to  Africa  (and  to  Cote  d'lvoire  in  particular)  declined  in 
the  1980s,  France's  paramount  position  was  not  challenged  by  other 
foreign  powers  or  by  Ivoirian  demands  for  autonomy.  Indeed,  since 
the  1970s  France  had  consolidated  its  position  as  the  leading 
Western  arms  supplier  to  Africa,  where  it  was  second  only  to  the 
Soviet  Union. 

The  Franco-Ivoirian  Technical  Military  Assistance  Accord  of 
1961  encompassed  four  categories  of  assistance.  Three  categories 
involved  French  contributions  to  Ivoirian  defense,  and  the  fourth 
dealt  with  joint  military  operations.  First,  France  provided  tech- 
nical assistance  personnel  (cooperants — see  Glossary)  to  headquarters 
and  field  commands.  The  agreement  for  the  continued  provision 
of  these  cooperants  (who  served  as  administrators,  advisers,  and  in 
operational  capacities)  was  reviewed  and  renewed  every  two  years. 
In  1985  about  1,000  French  military  officers  and  NCOs  provided 
technical  military  assistance  to  twenty  African  countries;  78  were 
assigned  to  Cote  d'lvoire,  a  decrease  from  a  peak  of  110  in  1981. 

Second,  France  provided  military  equipment  and  training  for 
the  Ivoirian  armed  forces  under  renewable  three-year  agreements. 
Equipment  and  materiel  were  either  donated  or  sold  on  favorable 
terms,  and  military  training  was  furnished  as  grant  aid.  In  1985 
France  provided  about  US$2. 1  million  in  direct  military  aid  to  Cote 
d'lvoire.  French  military  detachments  sometimes  undertook  spe- 
cial projects  in  the  country;  for  example,  for  eight  months  in  1984 
and  1985  a  vehicle  and  equipment  repair  team  serviced  Ivoirian 
equipment  in  Bouake.  In  the  early  1980s,  France  also  subsidized 
approximately  200  Ivoirian  officers  and  NCOs  annually  attend- 
ing French  military  academies. 

Third,  a  joint  agreement  allowed  France  to  station  troops  in  the 
country.  These  forces,  represented  in  1988  by  the  400-man  Forty- 
third  Marine  Infantry  Battalion  situated  near  Abidjan,  served  as 
tangible  evidence  of  France's  security  commitment  to  respond  to 


198 


Armed  Forces  color  guard 
Courtesy  Ellen  Perna  Smith 


any  major  crisis  occurring  in  Cote  d'lvoire  or  in  France's  mutual 
security  partners.  This  battalion  could  intervene  upon  request  or 
direction,  either  alone  or  in  conjunction  with  similar  units  stationed 
in  Senegal,  Niger,  and  Gabon,  with  rapid  reinforcements  by  French 
rapid  deployment  forces. 

Finally,  the  two  countries  participated  in  joint  military  exercises 
held  each  year  and  large-scale  maneuvers  held  every  two  or  three 
years.  In  the  1980s,  these  exercises  became  increasingly  sophisti- 
cated and  politically  significant.  At  the  operational  level,  they 
strengthened  cooperation  and  coordination  between  French  and 
Ivoirian  forces.  At  the  political  level,  they  were  a  cogent  symbol 
of  the  special  relationship  the  two  countries  shared. 

Apart  from  these  formal  accords,  France  also  sought  to  bolster 
its  influence  with  its  former  African  colonies  through  visits,  ex- 
changes, conferences,  and  other  meetings  that  promoted  a  continu- 
ing "defense  dialogue."  For  example,  the  French  Ministry  of 
Defense  conducted  the  biennial  meetings  of  the  Institute  of  Higher 
Studies  for  National  Defense  (Institut  des  Hautes  Etudes  de  Defense 
Nationale — IHEDN)  in  Paris  for  key  military  and  civilian  leaders 
from  francophone  African  countries.  The  conferences  emphasized 
defense  ties  and  military  cooperation,  the  strategic  significance  of 
Africa  in  the  global  defense  environment,  and  the  importance  of 
Franco- African  solidarity.  Participants  also  visited  major  French 


199 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

military  and  National  Gendarmerie  installations  for  briefings  and 
demonstrations  of  French  rapid  deployment  forces  and  the  latest 
equipment. 

Other  industrialized  countries  also  have  furnished  military  as- 
sistance and  equipment  to  Cote  d'lvoire.  Japan  provided  a  train- 
ing ship,  training,  and  naval  technical  assistance.  The  Netherlands, 
Sweden,  Britain,  and  the  United  States  furnished  support  aircraft, 
small  naval  craft,  military  utility  trucks,  jeeps,  and  mortars.  In  ad- 
dition, FANCI  procured  assault  rifles  from  Switzerland,  and  the 
police  bought  pistols  from  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany). 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  military  relationship  between  the  United 
States  and  Cote  d'lvoire  was  becoming  more  important.  Between 
1967  and  1986,  eighty-five  Ivoirian  trainees  received  military  in- 
struction under  the  United  States  International  Military  Educa- 
tion and  Training  (IMET)  program.  The  program,  which  expanded 
sharply  with  the  signing  of  a  new  IMET  agreement  in  1983,  pro- 
vided training  in  such  areas  as  infantry  and  airborne  skills,  intelli- 
gence, and  marine  environmental  science,  thereby  promoting 
professional  relationships  among  military  personnel.  The  value  of 
training  services  increased  to  US$41 1 ,000  during  fiscal  years  (FY — 
see  Glossary)  1984  to  1986,  covering  six  to  ten  Ivoirian  military 
students  per  year. 

Government- to- government  sales  of  defense  equipment  and  ser- 
vices, though  relatively  small,  have  also  expanded.  In  FY  1986, 
the  United  States  signed  military  sales  agreements  valued  at 
US$500,000,  of  which  US$25,000  was  classified  as  foreign  mili- 
tary sales  and  US$475,000  as  foreign  military  construction  sales. 
In  1985  the  United  States  initiated  the  African  Civic  Action  Pro- 
gram, which  included  a  Coastal  Security  Program  to  help  West 
African  littoral  states  patrol  and  defend  their  Exclusive  Economic 
Zones  (EEZs)  against  treaty  violations,  illegal  fishing,  and  smug- 
gling. The  African  Civic  Action  Program  also  strengthened  regional 
cooperation  in  search  and  rescue,  pollution  control,  and  training 
operations,  all  of  which  coincided  with  the  Ivoirian  navy's  primary 
missions.  By  1987  the  United  States  had  furnished  some  commu- 
nications and  navigation  equipment  to  Cote  d'lvoire  under  the 
terms  of  the  program. 

Role  of  the  Armed  Forces  in  Society 

Unlike  the  military  in  many  other  African  and  Third  World 
states,  the  Ivoirian  armed  forces  maintained  a  relatively  low  pro- 
file. According  to  a  1984  United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disar- 
mament Agency  (ACDA)  survey  of  144  countries,  Cote  d'lvoire 


200 


National  Security 


ranked  one  hundred  and  second  in  military  expenditure,  ninety- 
first  in  the  size  of  its  armed  forces,  ninety- sixth  in  arms  imports, 
one  hundred  and  twenty-fourth  in  military  expenditure  as  a  per- 
centage of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary),  one 
hundred  and  twenty-eighth  in  military  expenditure  as  a  percen- 
tage of  the  government  budget,  one  hundred  and  eighteenth  in  mili- 
tary expenditure  per  capita,  one  hundred  and  sixth  in  military 
expenditure  relative  to  the  size  of  the  armed  forces,  one  hundred 
and  thirteenth  in  the  ratio  of  armed  forces  to  total  population,  and 
seventy-ninth  in  the  ratio  of  arms  imports  to  total  imports. 

The  Military  in  National  Perspective 

From  1976  to  1985,  Ivoirian  military  expenditures  averaged  less 
than  2  percent  of  GNP  and  ranged  between  4  and  6  percent  of 
the  government's  budget.  As  measured  in  constant  1983  United 
States  dollars,  the  country's  arms  imports  multiplied  sevenfold  from 
about  US$15  million  a  year  during  1976  and  1977  to  between 
US$90  and  US$130  million  per  year  from  1978  to  1981,  when  Cote 
d'lvoire  acquired  several  costly  ships  and  aircraft.  Expenditures 
then  declined  abruptly  to  an  annual  average  of  only  US$22  mil- 
lion from  1982  to  1985,  a  period  of  austerity  for  the  country  (see 
Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3).  At  least  a  portion 
of  Cote  d'lvoire' s  arms  imports  from  France  was  furnished  on  a 
grant  basis  during  this  period. 

The  government's  operating  budget  for  FY  1986  amounted  to 
CFA  F433.62  billion  (for  value  of  CFA  F— see  Glossary),  of  which 
CFA  F31.3  billion  (7.2  percent)  was  allocated  to  the  Ministry  of 
Defense.  Although  this  represented  almost  an  11  percent  increase 
from  the  ministry's  1985  budget,  defense  allocations  were  still  a 
distant  second  to  the  budget  of  the  Ministry  of  National  Educa- 
tion and  Scientific  Research.  Personnel  costs  absorbed  about  two- 
thirds  of  the  defense  budget,  while  materials  and  operating  expenses 
each  absorbed  about  one-fifth  of  the  budget.  In  addition,  for  FY 
1986  the  Ministry  of  Maritime  Affairs  received  CFA  Fl.l  billion 
(a  substantial  reduction  from  CFA  F3.8  billion  in  1985),  bringing 
the  total  defense  operating  budget  for  1986  to  CFA  F3 2. 4  billion. 

National  Service  and  Veterans  Groups 

Given  the  top  priority  it  has  assigned  to  socioeconomic  develop- 
ment, the  government  has  regarded  the  armed  forces  as  an  instru- 
ment of  nation  building  as  well  as  national  defense.  In  fact,  in  the 
1960s  it  entertained  the  somewhat  naive  hope  that  the  armed  forces 
would  become  self-sufficient  rather  than  a  drain  on  the  economy, 
and  for  that  reason  the  National  Service  enjoyed  strong  presidential 


201 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


backing.  Until  1983  the  Ministry  of  Defense  was  known  as  the 
Ministry  of  Defense  and  National  Service,  signifying  its  dual  role 
of  protector  and  nation  builder.  Initially,  the  National  Service  draft- 
ed its  recruits,  but  recruitment  soon  became  voluntary  to  make 
it  more  attractive. 

The  National  Service  program  sought  to  train  soldiers  as  farmers, 
halt  migration  to  cities,  teach  useful  skills,  and  provide  a  general 
education  along  with  military  training.  (Within  a  short  time, 
however,  the  military  training  was  abandoned,  although  the  Na- 
tional Service  remained  under  the  Ministry  of  Defense,  was  funded 
within  the  army's  budget,  and  practiced  military  discipline.)  Na- 
tional Service  trainees,  under  the  supervision  of  Israeli  military  and 
agricultural  technicians,  established  the  National  Service  Center 
at  Bouake  in  1964.  The  National  Service  Center,  which  coordi- 
nated programs  in  the  Bouake  area,  also  processed  agricultural 
produce  and  provided  materials,  seeds,  and  machinery  to  regional 
centers.  Various  regional  centers  experimented  with  mechanized 
agriculture  and  poultry,  egg,  and  livestock  production.  Plans  called 
for  transplanting  National  Service  volunteers  to  villages  where  they 
were  to  serve  as  agents  of  change.  The  government,  through  the 
National  Service  program,  created  "Progressive  Villages"  as 
demonstration  projects,  which,  upon  attaining  economic  indepen- 
dence, were  to  be  transferred  to  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture.  The 
government  also  transformed  some  existing  villages  into  "Villages 
under  Supervision,"  which  cultivated  certain  experimental  crops 
like  tobacco,  rice,  and  cotton. 

By  the  mid-1960s,  the  National  Service  had  expanded  into  other 
areas.  The  Company  of  Pioneers,  also  supported  by  Israeli  tech- 
nical assistance  and  led  by  officers  and  NCOs  detailed  from  the 
army,  undertook  national  construction  and  other  projects.  A 
Women's  Corps  was  set  up,  with  Israeli  women  officers  as  advisers. 

In  1964  the  National  Service  Center  at  Bouake  opened  with  330 
fifteen-  to  eighteen-year-old  women  trainees.  Regular  recruits  at- 
tended a  one-year  course  of  instruction,  and  instructors  attended 
for  two  years.  The  curriculum  included  French-language  training, 
home  economics,  hygiene  and  nutrition,  child  care,  animal  hus- 
bandry, and  poultry  raising.  After  completing  their  service,  the 
trainees,  with  government  help,  were  expected  to  settle  in  villages 
and  assist  local  women;  however,  only  about  two-thirds  of  the 
trainees  completed  the  program,  and  the  impact  they  had  in  vil- 
lages was  probably  negligible. 

The  National  Service  program  was  as  misconceived  as  it  was 
ambitious.  Two  years  were  insufficient  to  turn  raw  recruits  into 
proficient  soldiers  and  farmers,  and  the  government  made  no 


202 


National  Security 


provisions  to  keep  trainees  on  the  farm  once  they  had  finished  their 
course.  Consequently,  in  1983  the  government  transferred  the  Na- 
tional Service  from  the  Ministry  of  Defense  to  the  Ministry  of  Rural 
Development.  This  transfer  recognized  that  the  primary  mission 
of  the  National  Service  was  development  rather  than  defense  and 
permitted  the  Ministry  of  Defense  to  concentrate  on  its  more  con- 
ventional military  responsibilities. 

Veterans  were  not  prominent  in  Cote  dTvoire's  independence 
movement  and  have  not  been  a  major  force  in  the  country's  social 
and  political  life.  The  relatively  small  size  of  the  armed  forces  and 
the  correspondingly  small  career  service  corps,  coupled  with  the 
limited  role  of  the  military  in  public  affairs,  has  contributed  to  their 
quiescence.  Veterans  of  the  colonial  armed  forces  have  received 
generous  pensions,  as  have  military  personnel  who  have  retired 
from  the  national  armed  forces.  The  National  Veterans  Adminis- 
tration Office  has  been  subsidized  by  the  Ministry  of  Defense  and 
Maritime  Affairs. 

Internal  Security 

According  to  many  observers,  Cote  dTvoire  has  had  one  of  the 
most  stable  political  systems  in  Africa.  As  of  1988,  President 
Houphouet-Boigny  had  been  the  dominant  national  figure  for  more 
than  forty  years.  He  was  the  country's  founding  father  and  its  first 
and  only  president.  In  1988  political  violence  was  relatively  rare 
in  Cote  dTvoire.  Since  independence,  there  have  been  few  politi- 
cal prisoners,  no  executions  of  political  opponents,  and  no  officially 
sanctioned  disappearances  or  abductions.  At  the  same  time,  there 
were  numerous  indications  of  political  instability.  Since  the  1970s, 
the  Ivoirian  polity  has  experienced  several  crises  (see  Economic 
and  Political  Issues  of  the  Late  1970s  and  1980s,  ch.l). 

Domestic  Security 

After  the  alleged  coup  attempts  in  1962  and  1963,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  disarmed,  disbanded,  and  reorganized  the  army;  took  over 
the  defense  and  interior  portfolios;  formed  a  party  militia  composed 
predominantly  of  ethnic  Baoule  kinsmen  to  maintain  order  in  Abi- 
djan; overhauled  the  State  Security  Court;  and,  for  his  personal 
protection,  established  a  Presidential  Guard  separate  from  the  army. 
Nevertheless,  Houphouet-Boigny  considered  the  army  to  be  the 
cornerstone  of  Ivoirian  internal  security. 

Following  the  1973  alleged  coup  attempt  in  Cote  dTvoire  and 
the  April  1974  military  coup  in  Niger  that  ousted  President  Hamani 
Diori,  a  lifelong  friend  and  regional  political  ally,  Houphouet- 
Boigny  ceded  a  larger  political  role  to  the  armed  forces  to  give  them 


203 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

a  formal  stake  in  the  regime.  In  June  1974,  he  removed  the  French 
commander  of  the  FACI  and  the  French  commandant  of  the  mili- 
tary academy  at  Bingerville,  replacing  them  with  Ivoirian  officers. 
A  month  later,  he  brought  military  officers  into  the  cabinet  for  the 
first  time.  Houphouet-Boigny  also  promoted  several  senior  army 
officers  and  appointed  ten  officers  as  prefects. 

At  same  time,  the  new  minister  of  interior,  Mathieu  Ekra,  under- 
took organizational  reforms  and  made  new  appointments  in  the 
territorial  administration  and  police  forces.  By  the  end  of  1974, 
a  new  ethnic  balance  had  emerged  among  the  security  forces.  North- 
erners controlled  higher  positions  in  the  army;  the  demographi- 
cally  preponderant  Baoule  dominated  the  National  Security  Police; 
and  southerners  were  a  plurality  in  the  police  and  National  Gen- 
darmerie. 

In  the  1980s,  as  political  upheavals  became  more  frequent, 
Houphouet-Boigny  repeatedly  changed  his  government.  In  Febru- 
ary 1981 ,  in  the  wake  of  the  1980  coup  and  assassination  attempts, 
he  enlarged  the  cabinet  from  twenty-five  to  thirty-six  ministers, 
bringing  in  Banny  as  minister  of  defense  and  Leon  Konan  Koffi, 
who  had  a  reputation  for  being  tough,  as  minister  of  interior.  (Iron- 
ically, Banny  had  been  the  minister  of  defense  who  was  arrested 
and  sentenced  to  death  for  his  role  in  the  1 963  coup  plot  but  later 
given  presidential  amnesty.  Kouadio  M'Bahia  Ble,  who  replaced 
Banny  after  the  1963  incident,  kept  that  post  until  Banny  took  it 
back  from  him  in  1981 .)  In  late  1985,  several  senior  military  officers 
were  appointed  to  leadership  posts  in  the  Democratic  Party  of  Cote 
d'lvoire  (Parti  Democratique  de  Cote  d'lvoire — PDCI),  further- 
ing the  process  of  political  co-optation  that  began  in  the  mid-1970s. 

Several  other  groups,  including  political  exiles,  labor  unions, 
teachers,  and  university  students,  at  times  posed  a  threat  to  civil 
order;  however,  none  of  these  groups  was  likely  to  topple  the  govern- 
ment (see  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4).  Secondary-school  teachers  in 
particular  became  especially  outspoken  during  the  mid-1980s.  In 
April  1983,  the  National  Union  of  Secondary  School  Teachers  of 
Cote  d'lvoire  (Syndicat  National  des  Enseignants  du  Secondaire 
de  Cote  d'lvoire — SYNESCI)  staged  a  two-week  strike  to  protest 
an  80  percent  reduction  in  the  teachers'  housing  allowance.  The 
government  responded  by  threatening  to  conscript  union  leaders, 
dissolve  the  union,  expel  teachers  from  their  houses,  and  close  all 
secondary  schools.  In  July  1987,  SYNESCI' s  leaders  (who  had  also 
called  the  1983  strike)  were  ousted  by  a  progovernment  faction  dur- 
ing irregular  rump  proceedings  of  the  union's  congress,  while 
uniformed  police  and  plainclothes  officers  surrounded  the  union 
headquarters.  The  new  union  officials  immediately  pledged  their 


204 


National  Security 


loyalty  to  the  government  and  charged  their  predecessors  with  mis- 
appropriation of  union  property  and  funds.  Thirteen  of  the  oust- 
ed unionists  were  arrested,  and  in  late  October  the  eleven  males 
were  sent  to  the  army  base  in  Seguela.  According  to  Minister  of 
Education  Balla  Keita  (who  had  taken  over  the  newly  consolidated 
ministry  in  the  midst  of  the  1983  SYNESCI  strike  with  instruc- 
tions to  break  it),  the  detainees  were  "well-known  agents  of  inter- 
national subversion"  who  had  been  "sent  to  the  army  for  national 
service  and  civic  and  moral  education  in  the  supreme  interest  of 
the  country."  Significantly,  SYNESCI — which  was  one  of  the  last 
unions  independent  of  the  government — appeared  finally  to  have 
fallen  under  government  influence. 

University  students  have  also  been  a  continuing  source  of  anti- 
government  protest,  much  to  the  chagrin  of  a  government  that 
has  invested  up  to  40  percent  of  the  national  budget  in  educa- 
tion. In  1969  police  and  soldiers  occupied  and  closed  the  Univer- 
sity of  Abidjan  (present-day  National  University  of  Cote  dTvoire), 
arrested  dozens  of  students,  and  detained  them  at  Akouedo 
after  they  protested  the  government's  attempt  to  place  their  newly 
formed  Movement  of  Ivoirian  Primary  and  Secondary  School  Stu- 
dents (Mouvement  des  Etudiants  et  des  Eleves  de  Cote  dTvoire — 
MEECI)  under  the  PDCI.  In  February  1982,  the  government  again 
closed  the  university  after  both  students  and  faculty  protested  the 
government's  banning  of  Professor  Laurent  Gbagbo's  speech  on 
political  freedom.  In  1985  police  broke  up  a  violent  demonstra- 
tion by  students  protesting  wholesale  reduction  in  scholarship 
aid. 

Alien  migrant  labor  also  represented  a  potential  security  threat. 
Cote  d T voire 's  relatively  robust  economy  made  the  country  a  mag- 
net for  migrant  labor.  In  1988  at  least  2  million  foreign  Africans 
in  the  country — about  half  of  them  Burkinabe — (residents  of  Bur- 
kina Faso)  comprised  about  one-fifth,  and  perhaps  much  more, 
of  the  population  of  Cote  dTvoire.  Most  aliens  were  agricultural 
laborers  or  unemployed  urban  squatters,  politically  helpless  and 
economically  deprived  migrants  who  turned  to  crime. 

Foreigners  who  were  more  industrious  often  became  scapegoats 
for  the  wrath  of  hard-strapped  Ivoirians,  who  saw  these  outsiders 
taking  jobs  that  they  themselves  had  allegedly  been  denied.  In  April 
1980,  for  example,  hundreds  of  Mauritanians  were  taken  under 
protective  custody,  and  some  1,500  others  took  refuge  in  the 
Mauritanian  embassy  in  Abidjan  after  days  of  rioting  and  fight- 
ing with  Ivoirians.  More  serious  incidents  directed  against  Bur- 
kinabe occurred  during  xenophobic  riots  in  1985,  leading  Burkina 
Faso  to  recall  its  ambassador  from  Abidjan. 


205 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 
Human  Rights 

Cote  d'lvoire  has  a  mixed  record  of  human  rights  observance. 
The  World  Handbook  of  Political  and  Social  Indicators  ranked  the  country 
ninety-sixth  on  political  rights  and  ninety-second  on  civil  rights  out 
of  144  nations.  Freedom  House  has  consistently  rated  Cote  d'lvoire 
low  on  its  scale  of  political  rights  and  civil  liberties;  nonetheless, 
in  1980  it  elevated  the  country  from  the  status  of  "not  free"  to 
"partly  free."  This  rating  put  Cote  d'lvoire  in  the  same  category 
as  Transkei  (part  of  South  Africa)  and  ranked  it  freer  than  Guinea 
but  less  free  than  Senegal.  The  World  Human  Rights  Guide  rated  the 
country  as  "poor,"  while  the  United  States  Department  of  State's 
Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for  1987  officially  charac- 
terized human  rights  conditions  in  Cote  d'lvoire  as  "generally  satis- 
factory." 

Cote  d'lvoire  was  a  signatory  to  a  number  of  international  human 
rights  conventions,  including  the  Slavery  Convention  of  1926,  the 
Supplementary  Convention  on  the  Abolition  of  Slavery  of  1956, 
the  Geneva  Conventions  of  1949  Relative  to  the  Treatment  of 
Prisoners  of  War  and  Civilians  in  Time  of  War,  and  the  Protocol 
Relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  of  1967.  It  had  not  yet  signed 
the  1953  Convention  on  the  Political  Rights  of  Women,  the  Con- 
vention on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Geno- 
cide of  1948,  or  the  International  Covenants  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  and  on  Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Rights  of  1966. 

Internal  Security  Organization  and  Forces 

Responsibility  for  internal  security  in  Cote  d'lvoire  was  shared 
by  three  ministries  in  a  coordinated,  multilayered  pattern  adapted 
from  the  French  colonial  system.  The  Ministry  of  Interior  was 
responsible  primarily  for  territorial  and  local  administration  and 
included  local  police  forces;  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Security  was 
charged  with  state  security  and  national  police  functions;  and  the 
Ministry  of  Defense  and  Maritime  Affairs  (primarily  through  the 
National  Gendarmerie)  provided  paramilitary  forces  throughout 
the  country  in  coordination  with  the  respective  regional  and  local 
authorities. 

The  Ministry  of  Interior,  as  chartered  by  decrees  of  January  1961 
and  May  1962,  had  broad  regulatory  functions.  As  part  of  its 
security-related  responsibilities,  it  regulated  public  associations,  gun 
control,  access  to  public  buildings,  emigration  and  immigration, 
foreign  propaganda,  foreign  visitors,  and  passport  controls.  It  also 
directed  the  National  Security  Police,  supervised  traditional  chief- 
taincies, and  administered  territorial  subdivisions. 


206 


National  Security 


Although  the  National  Security  Police  was  transferred  to  the 
Ministry  of  Internal  Security  in  1976,  the  other  functions  of  Minis- 
try of  Interior  have  remained  essentially  intact.  In  February  1981, 
Leon  Konan  Koffi  replaced  Alexis  Thierry-Lebbe  as  minister  of 
interior.  As  of  1985,  its  constituent  elements  included  the  minister's 
cabinet  and  six  directorates  covering  territorial  administration,  local 
communities,  financial  affairs,  personnel  and  manpower  programs, 
the  National  Printing  Office,  and  the  National  Archives.  It  had 
a  staff  of  about  4,900  and  an  operating  budget  of  C FA  F 13. 3  bil- 
lion, or  3.2  percent  of  the  government's  budget. 

Territorial  administration  remained  the  ministry's  most  im- 
portant function  pertaining  to  public  order  and  internal  security. 
The  prefects  and  subprefects  executed  government  policies  and 
represented  the  interests  of  the  local  population  (see  Local  Govern- 
ment, ch.  4).  Each  prefecture  and  municipality  also  was  responsi- 
ble for  maintaining  order;  executing  government  laws,  regulations, 
and  policies;  and  administrating  the  police.  Moreover,  the  prefects 
and  subprefects  were  empowered  to  call  upon  the  armed  forces  if 
needed  and  to  requisition  persons  and  property  in  matters  of  pub- 
lic safety.  Prefects  were  authorized  to  detain  for  forty-eight  hours 
anyone  apprehended  for  crimes  and  offenses  involving  state  security. 

The  Ministry  of  Internal  Security  was  established  as  part  of  a 
governmental  reorganization  in  March  1976  to  consolidate  the  na- 
tional police  and  state  security  functions  that  had  formerly  been 
assigned  to  the  Ministry  of  Interior.  In  November  1983,  Brigadier 
General  Oumar  N'Daw,  who  had  been  the  high  commander  of 
the  National  Gendarmerie  for  nine  years,  succeeded  Colonel  Gaston 
Ouassenan  Kone,  who  served  as  minister  of  internal  security  from 
1976  to  1983.  In  1985  the  ministry  was  reorganized  into  the  fol- 
lowing groups:  the  minister's  cabinet;  eight  directorates  (National 
Security  Police,  Regional  Security,  Inspector  General  of  Police  Ser- 
vices, Materials,  Financial  Affairs,  Personnel,  Police  Economics 
and  Finances,  and  Judicial  Affairs);  the  National  Police  Academy, 
and  an  intelligence  service.  In  1985  the  ministry  had  a  staff  of  about 
5,600,  and  its  operating  budget  of  CFA  F11.7  billion  (or  2.8  per- 
cent of  the  government's  budget)  represented  a  5.8  percent  increase 
over  its  1984  operating  budget. 

The  National  Security  Police  was  an  investigative  bureau  and 
national  police  force  with  a  strength  of  about  5,300  in  1987.  It  en- 
forced law  and  order  and  provided  special  police  services.  The  var- 
ious directorates  of  the  National  Security  Police  were  responsible 
for  public  security,  internal  and  cross-frontier  traffic,  counter- 
espionage, intelligence,  criminal  investigation,  narcotics  and  drug 
control,  and  the  administration  of  sixteen  national  police  districts. 


207 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

In  larger  towns  and  cities,  the  National  Security  Police  cooperated 
with  the  municipal  police  forces;  in  the  smaller  communities  and 
rural  areas,  it  worked  with  the  local  police  and  the  National  Gen- 
darmerie. The  ministry's  Regional  Security  Directorate  included 
three  separate  divisions  grouping  the  commissariats  for  subprefects 
and  major  urban  centers  and  the  Frontier  Police.  The  Special  Police, 
Frontier  Police,  and  the  Abidjan  Port  Police  were  grouped  under 
the  Central  Commissariat. 

The  National  Security  Police  Public  Security  Directorate  con- 
sisted of  the  uniformed  national  police  and  the  Companies  for  the 
Security  of  the  Republic  (Compagnies  Republicaines  de  Securite — 
CRS),  which  were  at  the  immediate  disposal  of  the  minister  of  in- 
ternal security  for  deployment  throughout  the  country.  In  emer- 
gencies, prefects  could  call  upon  the  minister  to  use  any  CRS  in 
his  or  her  jurisdiction.  The  CRS  were  most  frequently  used  to  han- 
dle certain  kinds  of  local  emergencies  and  rescue  operations.  They 
also  cooperated  with  the  local  National  Gendarmerie  forces  and 
the  Frontier  Police.  The  Intelligence  Directorate  was  responsible 
for  collecting  intelligence  on  security-related  political,  economic, 
and  social  events  (such  as  industrial  strikes  and  antigovernment 
demonstrations).  The  Counterespionage  Directorate  was  respon- 
sible for  protecting  the  state  against  treason  and  espionage.  The 
Criminal  Investigation  Directorate  coordinated  and  directed  crime- 
fighting  efforts,  maintained  the  central  files,  and  served  as  liaison 
with  international  police  through  the  International  Criminal  Police 
Organization  (Interpol). 

Before  independence  and  until  the  National  Police  Academy 
(Ecole  Nationale  de  Police)  was  opened  in  1967,  police  training 
consisted  of  a  six-month  course  given  at  the  Federal  School  in 
Dakar,  Senegal.  By  1988  about  6,000  police  officers  had  been 
trained  at  the  National  Police  Academy;  in  the  1980s,  the  acad- 
emy annually  graduated  about  450  officers,  who  were  then  assigned 
to  the  Police  Forces  of  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Security.  Like  its 
military  counterparts,  the  National  Police  Academy  also  served 
as  a  regional  training  center  for  francophone  Africa  and  has 
graduated  officers  from  Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon,  Central  Afri- 
can Republic,  Chad,  Congo,  Niger,  and  Senegal. 

The  academy's  basic  course  of  study  varied  from  six  months  to 
two  years  (depending  on  the  student's  rank)  and  included  forensic 
medicine,  judicial  procedure,  criminal  investigation,  criminology 
and  criminal  psychology,  police  administration,  computer  technol- 
ogy, and  communications.  Admission  was  by  direct  recruitment 
or  entrance  examinations.  Candidates  for  commissioner  were  re- 
quired to  have  credits  toward  a  law  degree  to  gain  entrance  and 


208 


National  Security 


to  complete  their  law  degree  in  order  to  graduate.  Candidates  who 
failed  to  obtain  the  law  degree  within  two  years  were  admitted  to 
the  police  officer  corps.  Commissioners  also  were  recruited  from 
among  police  officers  who  fulfilled  length-of-service  requirements 
set  by  police  ordinance.  Police  officer  candidates,  who  also  under- 
went a  two-year  training  program,  could  be  admitted  directly  to 
the  academy  with  a  bachelor's  degree  or  were  recruited  by  exami- 
nation from  among  police  officers  with  three  years'  service.  Finally, 
police  officers  were  recruited  from  among  qualified  Ivoirian  na- 
tionals who  had  completed  elementary  school. 

The  third  pillar  of  internal  security,  the  National  Gendarmerie, 
consisted  of  a  headquarters  staff,  four  legions  (corresponding  to 
the  four  military  regions)  and  a  professional  training  academy,  the 
Gendarmerie  School  (Ecole  de  Gendarmerie).  This  national  con- 
stabulary force  was  formed  in  October  1960,  replacing  the  Guard 
of  the  Republic  that  had  been  established  in  1958.  In  1988  Colonel 
Koffi  Botty  was  the  high  commander  of  the  National  Gendarmerie, 
having  replaced  Brigadier  General  N'daw  in  1983.  The  National 
Gendarmerie  was  responsible  for  defending  rural  areas  and  main- 
taining domestic  order,  thereby  complementing  the  conventional 
tactical  capabilities  of  the  regional  military  commands.  Its  effec- 
tive strength  of  1,500  in  the  late  1960s  doubled  to  3,000  in  the  early 
1970s,  and  in  1987  it  was  estimated  at  4,500.  The  headquarters 
included  an  intelligence  bureau;  administrative  and  training  center; 
bureaus  of  logistics,  personnel,  and  budget  planning;  and  a  secu- 
rity and  foreign  liaison  division. 

The  four  National  Gendarmerie  legions  each  had  a  general  staff, 
detached  companies  that  were  deployed  in  and  around  the  major 
towns  and  population  centers  in  their  respective  prefectures,  and 
a  small  number  of  mobile  squads  for  rapid  reaction  and  general 
support. 

Before  1960  auxiliaries  and  auxiliary  students  trained  in  Dakar. 
In  1960  an  officer  instruction  center  was  created  in  Abidjan.  In 
1961  the  National  Gendarmerie  set  up  its  own  academy,  the  Gen- 
darmerie School,  in  Abidjan.  The  school  trained  NCOs  (recruit- 
ed from  among  the  police  and  other  qualified  persons)  and 
constables  (recruited  from  among  qualified  students).  The  train- 
ing period  lasted  about  eleven  months,  at  the  end  of  which  gradu- 
ating constables  received  a  police  aptitude  certificate.  NCOs 
received  an  equivalent  diploma.  Students  received  instruction  in 
both  police  techniques  and  military  training.  The  academy  also 
offered  eight-week  in-service  training  courses  for  NCOs  and  motor- 
cycle police.  The  academy  has  graduated  a  large  number  of  NCOs 
but  only  a  few  officers.  The  1983  graduating  class  included  about 


209 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

250  NCOs  and  8  officers,  bringing  the  academy's  total  number 
of  graduates  to  77  officers  and  6,062  NCOs,  which  included  113 
Burkinabe  NCOs  who  underwent  training  between  1967  and  1969. 

Crime  and  Punishment 

The  Constitution  of  Cote  d'lvoire  establishes  a  legal  basis  for 
the  Ivoirian  criminal  justice  system.  The  right  to  a  fair  public  trial 
is  guaranteed  by  law,  and  that  right  generally  was  respected  in 
urban  areas.  In  rural  areas,  traditional  justice  often  substituted  for 
formal  criminal  law.  By  law,  defendants  are  entitled  to  legal  coun- 
sel, and  the  court  is  supposed  to  appoint  lawyers  for  the  indigent; 
however,  attorneys  were  often  not  available. 

Criminal  Justice  System 

The  Ivoirian  penal  code  prohibited  official  violence  without  legiti- 
mate justification;  nevertheless,  suspects  (particularly  foreign  Afri- 
cans) were  routinely  subjected  to  rough  treatment  when  detained 
or  arrested  by  the  National  Gendarmerie  or  National  Security 
Police.  The  penal  code  also  allowed  the  police  or  investigative  magis- 
trates to  conduct  home  searches  without  warrants  if  they  had  rea- 
son to  believe  that  evidence  of  a  crime  would  be  found.  Although 
the  Constitution  and  statutes  prohibited  arbitrary  arrest  and  im- 
prisonment, the  penal  code  did  permit  public  prosecutors  to  de- 
tain suspects  for  up  to  forty-eight  hours  without  charges.  Magistrates 
could  order  longer  detention  of  up  to  four  months,  provided  that 
monthly  reports  were  filed  with  the  Ministry  of  Justice  justifying 
continued  detention.  In  the  1980s,  periodic  but  short-lived  anti- 
crime  campaigns  resulted  in  massive  detentions.  The  Ivoirian 
government  abolished  capital  punishment  for  political  crimes  and 
had  not  employed  it  for  criminal  offenses  since  independence. 

Prison  System 

As  in  most  Third  World  countries,  prison  conditions  in  Cote 
d'lvoire  were  harsh.  Prisons  often  were  crowded,  dietary  condi- 
tions were  poor,  and  medical  and  sanitation  facilities  were  minimal. 
Family  members  were  encouraged  to  bring  food  to  prisoners  to 
supplement  the  meager  prison  diets.  Prisons  served  as  punitive  and 
custodial  facilities  rather  than  as  rehabilitative  institutions.  Visits 
by  prisoners'  attorneys  were  permitted,  but  the  vast  majority  of 
inmates  could  not  afford  legal  assistance.  The  few  court-appointed 
lawyers  could  not  effectively  represent  the  large  numbers  of  per- 
sons assigned  to  them.  There  was  virtually  no  vocational  training, 
and  although  prisoners  routinely  performed  labor,  like  cleaning 
public  markets  or  maintaining  roads,  they  did  little  or  no  gainful 


210 


National  Security 


work.  Prison  staffs  and  guard  forces  were  small  relative  to  the  in- 
mate population,  had  minimum  education  and  professional  train- 
ing, and  could  scarcely  maintain  control  of  the  inmates  and  prison 
facilities.  In  July  1983,  for  example,  a  group  of  armed  Burkinabe 
made  a  night  raid  on  the  large  prison  in  Bouake  and  freed  forty- 
five  of  their  countrymen. 

The  prison  population  in  1966  was  3,754  inmates,  of  whom  2,953 
had  been  sentenced  and  801  were  accused  but  not  yet  convicted 
or  sentenced.  By  the  early  1970s,  the  prison  population  had  in- 
creased sharply  to  between  5,000  and  7,000  inmates.  The  two  larg- 
est prisons,  at  Yopougon  near  Abidjan  and  at  Bouake,  accounted 
for  about  one-half  the  total  prison  population.  The  former  facility 
had  about  1,100  inmates,  and  the  latter  had  between  1,600  and 
2,000.  Ten  years  later,  the  number  of  inmates  in  the  Bouake  pri- 
son was  estimated  at  1,400,  and  by  1985  the  total  number  of  con- 
victed prisoners  in  the  country  had  doubled  to  some  13,000.  A  large 
proportion  (perhaps  even  a  substantial  majority)  of  the  inmates  in 
Ivoirian  penal  institutions  were  expatriate  Africans  from  neighbor- 
ing countries.  If  the  1966  prison  population  figures  are  represen- 
tative of  a  fairly  stable  ratio  of  inmates  awaiting  sentence  to  those 
actually  serving  sentences,  then  Cote  d'lvoire  compared  very 
favorably  with  the  Third  World  norm  in  which  the  majority  of 
prisoners  were  awaiting  trial  because  of  the  judicial  backlog. 

Periodically,  Houphouet-Boigny  granted  wholesale  amnesties  to 
prisoners.  For  example,  in  October  1975  he  pardoned  about  5,000 
common  law  prisoners  serving  prison  terms  for  embezzlement  and 
theft.  At  the  same  time,  he  pardoned  many  political  prisoners,  in- 
cluding 145  who  had  been  implicated  in  the  Gagnoa  uprising  of 
1970  and  12  soldiers  who  had  been  held  since  the  1973  coup  plot. 
Ten  years  later,  on  December  7,  1985,  in  commemoration  of  the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  Cote  d'lvoire's  independence,  the  presi- 
dent ordered  the  release  of  nearly  10,000  of  the  country's  prisoners 
who  were  not  incarcerated  for  violent  crimes  or  armed  robbery. 

Incidence  and  Trends  in  Crime 

Crime  in  Cote  d'lvoire  has  been  linked  to  abrupt  socioeconomic 
and  cultural  change  related  to  uncontrolled  and  rapid  urbaniza- 
tion, industrialization  and  associated  labor  migration,  unemploy- 
ment and  underemployment,  the  proliferation  of  urban  slums,  the 
absence  or  collapse  of  urban  and  human  services,  and  the  inabil- 
ity of  government  authorities  to  enforce  law  and  order.  In  the  1980s, 
serious  crime  increased  markedly,  particularly  in  Abidjan  and  other 
urban  areas.  Like  other  modernizing  countries,  Cote  d'lvoire  ex- 
perienced increases  in  theft,  armed  robbery,  myriad  petty  crimes, 


211 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

prostitution,  and  drug  and  alcohol  abuse.  The  most  frequent  of- 
fenders were  young  men  and  juveniles,  although  women  also  in- 
creasingly resorted  to  crime. 

Police  Response  to  Increased  Crime 

In  July  1987,  the  minister  of  internal  security  estimated  that  the 
Ivoirian  police  required  about  800  recruits  a  year — nearly  three 
times  the  recruitment  level  at  that  time — to  cope  with  increasing 
crime.  In  the  1980s,  law  enforcement  officials  conducted  periodic 
large-scale  crime  sweeps  and  law-enforcement  crackdowns  to  deter 
and  disrupt  illegal  activities.  In  July  1983,  for  instance,  police  de- 
tained more  than  3,500  people  during  a  ten-day  sweep  of  Abidjan 
that  involved  both  directed  and  random  searches  of  people,  vehi- 
cles, and  homes.  Special  police  units  were  formed  to  counter  the 
increasingly  sophisticated  and  brazen  tactics  used  by  criminals.  In 
July  1984,  the  minister  of  internal  security  formed  a  new  "antigang 
brigade"  with  special  training,  equipment,  and  weapons.  In  early 
1987,  in  response  to  the  proliferation  of  bank  robberies  in  Abidjan, 
the  ministry  established  a  bank  surveillance  brigade  with  fifteen 
vehicles  donated  by  the  Professional  Association  of  Banks. 

In  the  1980s,  the  government  stepped  up  drug  enforcement  ef- 
forts to  prevent  the  production,  smuggling,  sale,  and  use  of  illegal 
drugs,  such  as  marijuana,  amphetamines,  barbiturates,  heroin,  and 
cocaine.  In  1986  the  police  narcotics  squad  handled  718  drug  cases. 
Nevertheless,  the  government  failed  to  make  a  serious  dent  in  an 
alarming  problem  that  continued  to  outstrip  enforcement  resources. 
In  May  1987,  Cote  d'lvoire  hosted  a  two-week  international  sym- 
posium on  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  drug  abuse  and  alco- 
holism. At  the  insistence  of  the  United  States  Federal  Aeronautics 
Administration  (FAA),  the  police  instituted  strict  new  security  meas- 
ures in  October  1987  at  the  Abidjan-Port  Bouet  International  Air- 
port to  meet  international  standards.  The  measures  included 
personal  searches,  metal  detectors,  baggage  x-rays,  access  cards 
for  airport  service  personnel,  and  strict  access  controls  for  persons 
and  vehicles  seeking  to  enter  the  airport. 

Public  Response:  frPsy chose  Securitaire" 

Crime  and  security  have  become  major  public  concerns  in  Cote 
d'lvoire.  The  alarming  increase  in  crime  rates,  particularly  in  Abi- 
djan, has  induced  dipsy chose  securitaire  (obsession  with  security)  among 
Ivoirians.  Frequently  thefts  and  armed  robberies,  often  accom- 
panied by  violence,  have  led  some  neighborhoods  and  businesses 
to  form  defense  committees  to  protect  their  lives  and  property.  Pri- 
vate security  firms  also  have  prospered  in  the  cities,  especially  in 


212 


National  Security 


Abidjan,  filling  the  growing  gap  between  levels  of  crime  and  police 
protection.  Various  communal  and  business  interest  groups  have 
provided  equipment  and  resources  to  the  overtaxed  and  under- 
equipped  public  security  forces.  The  most  notable  recent  example 
was  the  Abidjan  bankers'  contribution  of  motor  vehicles  to  the  new 
bank  surveillance  unit.  The  Union  of  Burkinabe  in  Cote  dT voire 
also  donated  ten  vehicles  to  the  police  during  1983  and  1984.  The 
Lebanese  community,  whose  estimated  100,000  to  300,000  mem- 
bers control  much  of  the  retail  trade,  contributed  twenty  vehicles 
and  200,000  liters  of  fuel  to  security  forces,  and  the  Italian  busi- 
ness community  donated  fifty-five  Fiat  vehicles  to  the  police.  France 
also  has  furnished  substantial  assistance  to  the  paramilitary  forces. 
After  Houphouet-Boigny  made  an  obviously  undeliverable  promise 
in  November  1983  to  rid  the  country  of  banditry  within  five  months, 
the  French  government  promptly  donated  about  100  Peugeot-504 
diesel  vehicles  to  the  National  Gendarmerie.  In  1984  France  also 
dispatched  a  special  police  brigade  to  reinforce  Ivoirian  counter- 
parts. Despite  such  self-help  and  French  support,  in  early  1988  there 
was  no  indication  that  the  magnitude  of  Cote  d T voire 's  crime 
problem  would  diminish  or  that  the  capacity  of  the  security  forces 
to  control  it  would  improve. 

*    *  * 

Given  the  specialized  nature  of  the  material  and  the  protective- 
ness  of  Ivoirian  security  services,  there  is  no  comprehensive  study 
covering  Ivoirian  national  security.  Much  of  the  material  in  this 
chapter  came  from  periodicals  like  Afrique  defense,  its  English- 
language  counterpart  Africa  Defence,  Africa  Research  Bulletin,  Marches 
tropicaux  et  mediterraneens,  and  Freres  d'armes.  Other  sources  were  an- 
nual publications,  such  as  The  Military  Balance  published  by  the  In- 
ternational Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  World  Military  Expenditures 
and  Arms  Transfers  produced  by  the  United  States  Arms  Control 
and  Disarmament  Agency,  and  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices produced  by  the  United  States  Department  of  State.  Material 
on  the  administrative  structure  of  security  forces  came  from 
L  'Administration  ivoirienne,  by  Hugues  Tay  and  Guide  des  institutions 
politiques  et  administratives  by  Albert  Aggrey.  The  main  sources  for 
information  on  crime  and  the  criminal  justice  system  included  the 
Ivoirian  daily  Fraternite  matin  and  the  Abidjan  Institute  of  Crimi- 
nology's published  conference  proceedings  titled  First  West  African 
Conference  in  Comparative  Criminology.  Also  useful  was  Crime  and 
Modernization  by  Louise  Shelley.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


213 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1965-84 

3  Major  Economic  Aggregates,  Selected  Years,  1970-87 

4  Agricultural  Production,  Selected  Years,  1979-87 

5  Exports,  Imports,  and  Balance  of  Trade,  Selected  Years, 

1965-84 

6  Principal  Trading  Partners,  1985 

7  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1965-84 

8  Total  Debt  and  Debt  Service,  Selected  Years,  1970-87 

9  Army  Equipment  Inventory,  1987 

10  Naval  Equipment  Inventory,  1987 

11  Air  Force  Equipment  Inventory,  1987 


215 


Appendix 


Tnhlo  1 

1  OLDie  1 . 

Adetric  Convevsion  Coefficients  cine 

I  FdCtOTS 

When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

Millimeters   

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

feet 

Kilometers  , 

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (1U,UUU  nrj 

acres 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

0  0 

pounds 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1965-84 
(in  billions  of  CFA  francs  at  constant  prices;  base  year  1984)  * 


Sector 

1965 

1970 

1975 

1980 

1983 

1984 

Agriculture   

  485.6 

605.0 

680.1 

856.3 

767.1 

767.9 

  104.8 

204.9 

287.5 

511.5 

493.0 

374.1 

Services   

  257.3 

409.1 

844.2 

105.0 

1,062.1 

1,013.9 

*  For  value  of  the  CFA  franc — Communaute  Financiere  Africaine  franc — see  Glossary. 


Table  3.  Major  Economic  Aggregates,  Selected  Years,  1970-87 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1970 

1975 

1980 

1982 

1984 

1986 

1987 

Gross  national  product  

1,369 

3,580 

9,951 

7,059 

6,092 

8,657 

9,439 

Exports  of  goods  and  services  . 

.  566 

1,503 

3,640 

2,844 

3,042 

3,705 

3,624 

Imports  of  goods  and  services 

.  584 

1,741 

4,761 

3,498 

2,833 

3,482 

3,881 

Current  account  balance  .... 

-38 

-379 

-1,826 

-1,016 

-54 

-135 

-624 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  "Country  Tables"  in  World  Debt  Tables, 
2,  Washington,  1988,  98. 


217 


Cote  dTvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Table  4.  Agricultural  Production,  Selected  Years,  1979-87 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Commodity 

1979-81  1 

1985 

1986 

1987 

  1,090 

1,048 

1,084 

1,000 

Rice   

  438 

541 

561 

595 

  352 

480 

420 

415 

  3,429 

4,671 

4,799 

4,704 

1  Ofsl 

1  son 

1  ,  JUVJ 

Yams   

  2,079 

2,900 

3,000 

2,900 

390 

400 

400 

  157 

160 

187 

215 

Sugar  cane   

  1,373 

1,270 

1,500 

1,750 

  163 

163 

140  2 

136  2 

Coffee  

  298 

277 

265 

260 

Cocoa   

  427 

580 

575 

570 

  54 

88 

75 

91 

  74 

117 

115 

122 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Annual  average. 

2  Estimate. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization, 
FAO  Production  Yearbook,  1987,  Rome,  1988,  113-244. 


Table  5.  Exports,  Imports,  and  Balance  of  Trade,  Selected  Years,  1965-84 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

1965      1970         1975         1980         1983  1984 


Exports 


Coffee   

104.9 

186.2 

301.6 

644.2 

410.6 

450.2 

Cocoa   

39.4 

89.0 

240.6 

793.3 

427.0 

964.0 

Other  agricultural  products  .  . 

.  .  22.7 

18.6 

70.3 

105.0 

77.9 

127.0 

Forestry  products   

,  ,  60.7 

84.7 

162.6 

474.3 

198.1 

217.0 

Petroleum  products   

7.2 

5.2 

67.9 

212.0 

239.3 

308.0 

24.2 

42.5 

218.4 

362.1 

356.1 

296.6 

4.7 

17.7 

59.2 

131.0 

103.9 

136.9 

Wood  products   

21.4 

17.7 

50.2 

98.5 

119.0 

117.6 

Other  manufactures   

.  .  40.8 

20.7 

113.0 

192.2 

151.6 

169.4 

326.0 

482.3 

1,283.8 

3,012.6 

2,083.5 

2,786.7 

Imports 

Agricultural  products   

42.2 

41.8 

113.7 

249.4 

251.3 

231.4 

Petroleum  products   

13.0 

15.3 

133.8 

557.1 

343.3 

432.8 

Manufactures   

.  .  204.0 

326.3 

967.7 

1,807.1 

911.7 

1,115.7 

.  ,  259.2 

383.4 

1,215.2 

2,613.6 

1,506.3 

1,779.9 

66.9 

93.0 

68.9 

399.0 

585.2 

1,007.6 

218 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Principal  Trading  Partners,  1985 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Country  Exports  Imports 


  527.7 

511.0 

  507.0 

76.7 

  300.7 

69.3 

  287.5 

59.7 

  192.1 

87.3 

  135.6 

41.5 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Africa  Research  Bulletin  [Exeter,  United  Kingdom],  24, 
No.  6,  July  31,  1987,  8769. 


Table  7.  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1965-84 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

1965      1970        1975  1980        1983  1984 


Goods  and  services  balance    61.2  96.5  5.6  -570.3  60.4  755.9 

Interest,  transfers,  and 

remittances   -52.3  -88.2  -324.1  -1,262.3  -986.7  -891.8 

Current  account  balance  *   8.9  8.3  -318.4  -1,832.6  -926.4  -135.9 

Capital  account  balance 

(private  and  public)    3J)  29.5  191.6  1,020.9  392.6  269.1 

Overall  balance  *   12.6  37.8  -126.8  -811.7  -533.8  133.2 


*  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 


Table  8.  Total  Debt  and  Debt  Service,  Selected  Years,  1970-87 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1970 

1975 

1980 

1985 

1986 

1987 

Long-term  debt  

  266 

1,008 

4,742 

8,490 

9,733 

11,714 

Short-term  debt   

 n.a. 

n.a. 

1,059 

725 

787 

1,265 

IMF  credit  used  1   

  0 

13 

0 

622 

623 

576 

Total  debt  2   

  266 

1,021 

5,801 

9,837 

11,142 

13,555 

Debt  service   

  43 

143 

943 

1,235 

1,540 

1,477 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  International  Monetary  Fund — see  Glossary. 

2  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  "Country  Tables"  in  World  Debt  Tables, 
2,  Washington,  1988,  98-99. 


219 


Cote  d'hoire:  A  Country  Study 

Table  9.  Army  Equipment  Inventory,  1987 

Country  of  In 
Type  and  Description  Origin  Inventory 

Tanks 

AMX-13  light    France  5 

Armored  vehicles 

AML-60    -do-  10 

AML-90    -do-  6 

ERC-90  Panhard  reconnaissance   -do-  7 

M-4  armored  personnel  carrier   United  States  16 

VAB4x4    France  13 

Air  defense 

20mm  M693  towed  and  self-propelled 

(air  defense  gun)    France  and 

United  States  14 

40mm  towed  antiaircraft  gun   France  5 

Towed  artillery 

M-1950  105mm  howitzer   United  States  4 

Mortars 

120mm  AM-50    France  16 

Antitank  weapons 

89mm  STRIM   France  n.a. 

Recoilless  rifles 

106mm  M-40   United  States  n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988,  London,  1987,  129; 

Barbara  Pope,  ed.,  World  Defense  Forces,  Santa  Barbara,  California,  1987,  62;  and 
Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook,  1986,  Washington,  1986,  379. 


220 


Appendix 


Table  10.  Naval  Equipment  Inventory,  1987 


Country  of  In 
Type  and  Description  Origin  Inventory 

Fast  attack  craft 

(equipped  with  missiles) 

PR-48  Patra  class    France  2 

Patrol  craft 

PR-48  Patra  class    France  and 

Belgium  2 

Karlskrona  CG.27    Sweden  3 

Amphibious  landing  ships 

Batral  class   France  1 

LCVPs   1  * 

Fast  assault  boats 

Rotork-type    Britain  10 

Service  craft 

Barracuda-class  launch  United  States  1 

Arcor    France  8  * 

River  patrol  craft 

Comoe  class    -do-  1 

Training  vessels 

Shimazu  training  ship    Japan  1 

*  Estimate. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jean  Labayle  Couhat,  ed.,  Combat  Fleets  of  the  World, 
1986-1987,  Annapolis,  1986,  282-83;  and  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1978-1988,  London, 
1987,  300. 


221 


Cote  d' I  voire:  A  Country  Study 

Table  11.  Air  Force  Equipment  Inventory,  1987 

Country  of  In 
Type  and  Description  Origin  Inventory 

Ground  attack 

Dassault-Breguet  light  attack/trainer    France  6 

Trainer 

Aerospatiale  Rallye  160  basic   -do-  1 

Aerospatiale  Rallye  235  basic   -do-  1 

Riems  Aviation/Cessna  150H  basic    -do-  2 

Beech  F33C  Bonanza  basic   United  States  6 

Transport 

Grumman  Gulfstream  II  and  III    -do-  2 

Rockwell  Aero  Commander  500B    -do-  2 

Liaison  and  transport 

F-28  Mk  4000  Fellowship  VIP    Netherlands  1 

Helicopters  and  transport 
SA-313B  Alouette  lis, 
SA-316B  Alouette  Ills, 
SA-365C  Dauphin  3s, 

SA-330  Pumas   France  1 1 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988,  London,  1987,  129; 
"Republic  of  the  Ivory  Coast,"  Air  Forces  of  the  World,  1986,  Geneva,  1986,  285-86, 
and  "Ivory  Coast,"  Flight  International,  November  29,  1986,  47. 


222 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Ajayi,  J.F.  Ade,  and  Michael  Crowder  (eds.).  History  of  West  Africa, 
2.  New  York:  Colombia  University  Press,  1974. 

Bakary,  Tessilimi.  ''Elite  Transformation  and  Political  Succession." 
Pages  21-56  in  I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher  Delgado 
(eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Praeger, 
1984. 

Binger,  Capitaine  Louis  Gustave.  Du  Niger  au  golfe  de  Guinee  par 
le pays  de  Kong  et  leMossi.  (2  vols.)  Paris:  Librairie  Hachette,  1892. 

Campbell,  Bonnie.  "The  Ivory  Coast."  Pages  66-116  in  John 
Dunn  (ed.),  West  African  States:  Failure  and  Promise.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 

 "The  State  and  Capitalist  Development  in  the  Ivory 

Coast."  Pages  281-303  in  Paul  M.  Lubeck  (ed.),  The  African 
Bourgeoisie:  Capitalist  Development  in  Nigeria,  Kenya,  and  the  Ivory 
Coast.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 

Cohen,  Michael  A.  "The  Myth  of  the  Expanding  Center — Politics 
in  the  Ivory  Coast,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London], 
11,  No.  2,  June  1973,  227-46. 

 .  Urban  Policy  and  Political  Conflict  in  Africa.  Chicago:  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Quarterly  Economic  Review  of  Ivory  Coast, 
Togo,  Benin,  Niger,  Upper  Volta:  Annual  Report.  London:  The  Econ- 
omist, 1983. 

Gbagbo,  Laurent.  Cote  dTvoire:  Economie  et  societe  a  la  veille  de  Vin- 

dependance  (1940-1960).  Paris:  L'Harmattan,  1982. 
Handloff,  Robert  Earl.  The  Dyula  of  Gyaman:  A  Study  of  Politics  and 

Trade  in  the  Nineteenth  Century.  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Evanston, 

Illinois:  Northwestern  University,  1982. 
Harrison-Church,  R.J.,  Richard  Synge,  and  Edith  Hodgkinson. 

"Cote  dTvoire."  Pages  397-415  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara.  (17th 

ed.)  London:  Europa,  1987. 
Hecht,  Robert  M.  "The  Ivory  Coast  Economic  'Miracle':  What 

Benefits  for  Peasant  Farmers?"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 

[Cambridge],  12,  No.  1,  March  1983,  25-53. 
Jackson,  Robert  H.,  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg.  Personal  Rule  in  Black 

Africa.  Berkeley,  California:  University  of  California  Press,  1982. 
July,  Robert  W.  A  History  of  the  African  People.  New  York:  Scrib- 

ner's  Sons,  1974. 


223 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Legum,  Colin  (ed.).  Africa  Contemporary  Record:  Annual  Survey  and 
Documents  (annuals  1980-1981  through  1985-1986).  New  York: 
Africana,  1981-1986. 

Loucou,  Jean-Noel.  "Histoire."  Page  25  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  dTvoire.  (2d  ed.)  Paris:  Jeune  Afrique,  1983. 

Morgenthau,  Ruth  Schachter.  Political  Parties  in  French-Speaking  West 
Africa.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1964. 

Mundt,  Robert  J.  Historical  Dictionary  of  the  Ivory  Coast.  (African 
Historical  Dictionaries,  No.  41.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scare- 
crow Press,  1987. 

Potholm,  Christian  P.  Four  African  Political  Systems.  Englewood  Cliffs, 
New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1970. 

Shaw,  Thurstan.  "The  Prehistory  of  West  Africa."  Pages  33-71 
in  J.F.  Ade  Ajayi  and  Michael  Crowder  (eds.),  History  of  West 
Africa.  (2d  ed.)  London:  Longman,  1976. 

Staniland,  Martin.  "Single-Party  Regimes  and  Political  Change: 
The  P. D.C.I,  and  Ivory  Coast  Politics."  Pages  135-75  in  Colin 
Leys  (ed.),  Politics  and  Change  in  Developing  Countries.  London: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1969. 

Thompson,  Virginia,  and  Richard  Adloff.  French  West  Africa.  New 
York:  Greenwood  Press,  1969. 

Toungara,  Jeanne  Maddox.  "Political  Reform  and  Economic 
Change  in  Ivory  Coast:  An  Update,"  Journal  of  African  Studies 
[London],  13,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  94-101. 

Weiskel,  Timothy.  "Mission  civilisatrice,"  The  Wilson  Quarterly, 
12,  No.  4,  Autumn  1988,  97-113. 

Welch,  Claude  E.,  Jr.  "Cote  d'lvoire:  Personal  Rule  and  Civilian 
Control."  Pages  172-94  in  Claude  E.  Welch,  Jr.  (ed.),  No  Fare- 
well to  Arms?  Military  Disengagement  from  Politics  in  Africa  and  Latin 
America.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Zolberg,  Aristide  R.  One-Party  Government  in  the  Ivory  Coast.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1964. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodical  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London],  1979-84.) 


Chapter  2 

Adepoju,  Aderanti.  "Patterns  of  Migration  by  Sex."  Pages  54-75 
in  Christine  Oppong  (ed.),  Female  and  Male  in  West  Africa.  Boston: 
Allen  and  Unwin,  1983. 

All  and,  Alexander,  Jr.  When  the  Spider  Danced.  Garden  City,  New 
York:  Anchor  Press,  1976. 


224 


Bibliography 


Arnaud,  S.,  and  J.-C.  Arnaud.  "Ethnies."  Page  27  in  Pierre 
Vennetier  (ed.),  Atlas  de  la  Cote  dTvoire.  (2d  ed.),  Paris:  Jeune 
Afrique,  1983. 

Asante,  Molefi  Kete.  The  Afrocentric  Idea.  Philadelphia:  Temple 

University  Press,  1987. 
Bakary,  Tessilimi.  "Elite  Transformation  and  Political  Succession." 

Pages  21-56  in  I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher  Delgado 

(eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Praeger, 

1984. 

Bakayoko,  Adama,  and  Sylvestre  Ehouman.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages 
69-99  in  John  Dixon  (ed.),  Social  Welfare  in  Africa.  (Compara- 
tive Social  Welfare  Series.)  London:  Croom  Helm,  1987. 

Bourke,  Gerald.  "A  Tarnished  Miracle,"  Africa  Report,  32,  No.  6, 
November-December  1987,  62-64. 

Bozeman,  Adda  B.  Conflict  in  Africa:  Concepts  and  Realities .  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1976. 

Campbell,  Bonnie.  "The  State  and  Capitalist  Development  in  the 
Ivory  Coast."  Pages  281-303  in  Paul  M.  Lubeck  (ed.),  The  Afri- 
can Bourgeoisie:  Capitalist  Development  in  Nigeria,  Kenya,  and  the  Ivory 
Coast.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 

Charlick,  Robert  B.  "Access  to  'Elite'  Education  in  the  Ivory  Coast: 
The  Importance  of  Socio-Economic  Origins."  Sociology  of  Edu- 
cation, 51,  July  1978,  187-200. 

Cohen,  Michael  A.  "The  Myth  of  the  Expanding  Center — Politics 
in  the  Ivory  Coast,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London], 
11,  No.  2,  June  1973,  227-46. 

 .  Urban  Policy  and  Political  Conflict  in  Africa.  A  Study  of  the  Ivory 

Coast.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 

Cote  d'lvoire.  Embassy  in  Washington.  "Education."  (Unpub- 
lished document.)  Washington:  1987. 

"Cote  d'lvoire:  Direction  of  Trade  with  Major  Trading  Partners," 
Africa  Research  Bulletin  [Exeter,  United  Kingdom],  4,  No.  6, 
July  31,  1987,  8769. 

Daddieh,  Cyril  Kofie.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  122-44  in  Timothy 
M.  Shaw  and  Olajide  Aluko  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Afri- 
can Foreign  Policy.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1984. 

David,  Philippe.  La  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1986. 

den  Tuinder,  Bastiaan  A.  Ivory  Coast:  The  Challenge  of  Success.  Bal- 
timore: Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1978. 

Diallo,  Helga.  Le  chasseur  Lobi:  Une  etude  ethnosociologique.  Vienna: 
Elisabeth  Stiglmayr,  1978. 

Dieterlen,  Germaine.  "The  Mande  Creation  Myth,"  Pages  634-53 
in  Elliott  P.  Skinner  (ed.),  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  Africa.  Garden 
City,  New  York:  Doubleday/Natural  History  Press,  1973. 


225 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Report:  Ivory  Coast,  1986-1987. 
London:  The  Economist,  1987. 

Fieldhouse,  D.  K.  Black  Africa,  1945-1980:  Economic  Decolonization 
and  Arrested  Development.  London:  Allen  and  Unwin,  1986. 

Fortes,  Meyer.  "Kinship  and  Marriage  among  the  Ashanti."  Pages 
252-85  in  A.R.  Radcliffe-Brown  and  D.  Forde,  African  Systems 
of  Kinship  and  Marriage.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1950. 

 .  "The  Structure  of  Unilineal  Descent  Groups,"  American 

Anthropologist,  No.  55,  1953,  17-41. 

Gbagbo,  Laurent.  Cote  d'lvoire:  Pour  une  alternative  democratique.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1983. 

Gozo,  K.M.  Crise  et  pauvrete  en  Cote  d'lvoire.  Addis  Ababa,  Ethio- 
pia: Bureau  International  du  Travail,  Programme  des  Emplois 
et  des  Competences  Techniques  pour  l'Afrique,  June  1983, 
61-65. 

Halaoui,  Nazam,  Kalilou  Tera,  and  Monique  Trabi.  Atlas  des 

langues  Mande-sud  de  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Agence  de  Cooperation 

Culturelle  et  Technique,  1983. 
Harrison-Church,  R.J.,  Richard  Synge,  and  Edith  Hodgkinson. 

"Cote  d'lvoire."  Pages  397-415  m  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara.  (17th 

ed.)  London:  Europa,  1987. 
Hecht,  Robert  M.  "The  Ivory  Coast  Economic  'Miracle':  What 

Benefits  for  Peasant  Farmers?  "Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 

[Cambridge],  21,  No.  1,  1983,  25-53. 
Humana,  Charles.  World  Human  Rights  Guide.  New  York:  Facts 

on  File,  1986. 

Jackson,  Robert  H.,  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg.  Personal  Rule  in  Black 
Africa.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1982. 

Kilson,  Martin.  Political  Change  in  a  West  African  State.  Cambridge: 
Harvard  University  Press,  1966. 

Liebenow,  J.  Gus.  African  Politics.  Bloomington:  Indiana  Univer- 
sity Press,  1986. 

Little,  Kenneth.  "Political  Functions  of  the  Poro."  Pages  257-88  in 
Colin  M.  Turnbull  (ed.),  Africa  and  Change.  New  York:  Alfred  A. 
Knopf,  1973. 

Monnier,  Yves.  "Vegetation."  Page  17  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Jeune  Afrique,  1983. 

Moussa,  Alfred  Dan.  "Quota  of  Scholarship  Grants  Restored." 
Fraternite  Matin  [Abidjan],  April  6,  1987,  28. 

Mundt,  Robert  J.  Historical  Dictionary  of  the  Ivory  Coast.  (African 
Historical  Dictionaries,  No.  41.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey: 
Scarecrow  Press,  1987. 

 "Internal  Criticism  of  the  Ivoirian  Political  Regime." 

(Paper  presented  at  African  Studies  Association  Annual  Meet- 
ing.) Denver,  Colorado:  November  20,  1987. 


226 


Bibliography 


Murdock,  George  Peter.  Africa:  Its  Peoples  and  their  Culture  History. 
New  York:  McGraw-Hill,  1959. 

Niamkey,  Paul-Andre.  "La  grogne  des  enseignants. "  Africa  Inter- 
national [Paris],  February  6,  1987,  24-26. 

Oppong,  Christine  (ed.).  Female  and  Male  in  West  Africa.  Boston: 
Allen  and  Unwin,  1983. 

Paulme,  Denise.  "Oral  Literature  and  Social  Behavior  in  Black 
Africa. ' '  Pages  525-42  in  Elliott  P.  Skinner  (ed.),  Peoples  and  Cul- 
tures of  Africa.  Garden  City,  New  York:  Doubleday/Natural  His- 
tory Press,  1973. 

Potholm,  Christian  P.  Four  African  Political  Systems.  Englewood  Cliffs, 
New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1970. 

Rattray,  R.S.  Ashanti.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1923. 

 .  Religion  and  Art  in  Ashanti.  New  York:  AMS  Press,  1979. 

Shaw,  Timothy  M.,  and  Olajide  Aluko  (eds.).  The  Political  Econ- 
omy of  African  Foreign  Policy.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1984. 

Skinner,  Elliott  P.  "Intergenerational  Conflict  among  the  Mossi: 
Father  and  Son ,"  Journal  of  Conflict  Resolution,  5,  No.  1,  1961, 
55-60. 

Skinner,  Elliott  P.  (ed.).  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  Africa.  Garden  City, 

New  York:  Doubleday/Natural  History  Press,  1973. 
Third  World  Resources  Institute  and  the  International  Institute 

for  Environment  and  Development.  World  Resources,  1986.  New 

York:  Basic  Books,  1986. 
Toungara,  Jeanne  Maddox.  "The  Changing  Status  of  Women  in 

Cote  dTvoire."  (Paper  presented  at  African  Studies  Association 

Annual  Meeting.)  Denver,  Colorado:  November  20,  1987. 
 "Political  Reform  and  Economic  Change  in  Ivory  Coast: 

An  Update,"  Journal  of  African  Studies  [London],  13,  No.  3,  Fall 

1986,  94-101. 

Turnbull,  Colin  M.  (ed.).  Africa  and  Change.  New  York,  Alfred  A. 
Knopf,  1973. 

United  Nations.  Department  of  International  Economic  and  So- 
cial Affairs.  Statistical  Office.  1986  Demographic  Yearbook.  (38th 
ed.)  New  York:  1988. 

 Department  of  International  Economic  and  Social  Affairs. 

Statistical  Office.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1983-84.  (34th  issue.)  New 
York:  1986. 

 Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization.  Inter- 
national Yearbook  of  Education,  32.  New  York:  1980. 

 Statistical  Office.  Bulletin  mensuel  de  statistique.  41,  No.  8, 

New  York:  August  1987. 

 Statistical  Office.  "Survey  of  Economic  and  Social  Con- 
ditions in  Africa,  1985-1986."  (Report  presented  to  the  Twenty- 


227 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


second  Session  of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa.)  Addis 
Ababa,  Ethiopia:  April  23-27,  1987,  159-74. 
United  States.  Department  of  Defense.  Global  Epidemiology  Work- 
ing Group.  Global  Disease  Surveillance  Report.  Frederick,  Maryland: 
January  1988. 

Vennetier,  Pierre  (ed.).  Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire.  (2d  ed.)  Paris:  Jeune 
Afrique,  1983. 

Weekes,  Richard  V.  (ed.).  Muslim  Peoples:  A  World  Ethnographic  Sur- 
vey. Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1978. 

Welch,  Claude  E.,  Jr.  "Cote  d'lvoire:  Personal  Rule  and  Civilian 
Control."  Pages  172-94  in  Claude  E.  Welch,  Jr.  (ed.),  No  Fare- 
well to  Arms?  Military  Disengagement  from  Politics  in  Africa  and  Latin 
America.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Westermann,  Diedrich,  and  Margaret  A.  Bryan.  The  Languages  of 
West  Africa.  (Handbook  of  African  Languages,  Part  2.)  New 
York:  Oxford  University  Press  for  the  International  African  In- 
stitute, 1952. 

 .  World  Development  Report,  1986.  Washington:  1986. 

World  Health  Organization.  Progress  Report  Number  2.  Washing- 
ton: Special  Program  on  AIDS,  November  1987. 

 "Update:    Acquired   Immunodeficiency  Syndrome." 

(Global  Program  on  AIDS,  unpublished  report.)  Washington: 
February  1988. 

Young,  Crawford.  Ideology  and  Development  in  Africa.  New  Haven, 
Connecticut:  Yale  University  Press,  1982. 

Zartman,  I.  William,  and  Christopher  Delgado  (eds.).  The  Politi- 
cal Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Zolberg,  Aristide  R.  One-Party  Government  in  the  Ivory  Coast.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1964. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa  Eco- 
nomic Digest  [London];  Africa  Report  [London];  Africa  Research  Bulle- 
tin [London];  Afrique-Asie  [Paris];  Christian  Science  Monitor;  Foreign 
Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Subsaharan  Africa;  Freres 
d'armes  [Paris];  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris];  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneens 
[Paris];  West  Africa  [London].) 


Chapter  3 

Alschuler,  Lawrence  R.  Multinationals  and Maldevelopment.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1987. 


228 


Bibliography 

Amin,  Samir.  "Capitalism  and  Development  in  the  Ivory  Coast." 

Pages  277-88  in  I.L.  Markovitz  (ed.),  African  Politics  and  Society. 

New  York:  Free  Press,  1970. 
 .  Le  developpement  du  capitalisme  en  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris:  Minuit, 

1967. 

Amnesty  International.  Amnesty  International  Report,  1986.  London: 
1986. 

Berg,  Robert  J.,  and  Jennifer  Whitaker  (eds.).  Strategies  Jor  African 
Development:  A  Study  for  the  Committee  on  African  Development  Strate- 
gies. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1986. 

Blackburn,  Brigitte.  "L'Afrique  poignardee  par  1' Occident:  Le  cas 
de  la  Cote  d'lvoire,"  Africa  International  [Dakar,  Senegal], 
No.  194,  April  1987,  13-16. 

Bourgoin,  Henri,  and  Philippe  Guilbaume.  La  Cote  d'lvoire:  Economie 
et  Societe.  Paris:  Stock,  1979. 

Brayton,  Abbott  A.  "Stability  and  Modernization:  The  Ivory  Coast 
Model,"  World  Affairs,  5,  No.  141,  Winter  1979,  235-49. 

Brooke,  James.  "Abidjan  Journal:  Black  Africa's  Oddities, 
Preserves  of  White  Power,"  New  York  Times,  August  20,  1987, 
A-3. 

Campbell,  Bonnie.  "The  Ivory  Coast."  Pages  66-116  in  John 
Dunn  (ed.),  West  African  States:  Failure  and  Promise.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 

 .  "The  State  and  Capitalist  Development  in  the  Ivory 

Coast."  Pages  281-303  in  Paul  M.  Lubeck  (ed.),  The  African 
Bourgeoisie:  Capitalist  Development  in  Nigeria,  Kenya,  and  the  Ivory 
Coast.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 

Cohen,  Michael  A.  Urban  Policy  and  Political  Conflict  in  Africa. 
Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 

Cote  d'lvoire."  Budget  special  d'investissement  et  d'e'quipement,  annee 
1987,  2.  Abidjan:  Imprimerie  nationale,  1987. 

 Ministere  de  1' economie  et  des  finances.  Population  de  la 

Cote  dTvoire.  Abidjan:  Imprimerie  nationale,  1984. 

 Ministere  de  1' economie  et  des  finances.  Projet  de  loi  de 

finances  pour  la  gestion  1986:  Rapport  economique  et  financier.  Abidjan: 
Direction  des  budgets  et  comptes,  1986. 

 Ministere  du  plan  et  de  l'industrie.  Plan  quinquennal  de  de- 
veloppement economique,  social  et  culturel  1981-1985.  (3  vols.)  Abidjan: 
1983. 

"Cote  dTvoire:  Industrial  Sector  Requires  Adjustments,"  Courier 
[Brussels],  No.  105,  September-October  1987,  "Industrial  Op- 
portunities" insert,  1-2. 

La  Cote  dTvoire  en  chijfres.  Dakar,  Senegal:  Societe  africaine  d' edi- 
tion, 1987. 


229 


Cote  dTvoire:  A  Country  Study 


den  Tuinder,  Bastiaan  A.  Ivory  Coast:  The  Challenge  of  Success.  Bal- 
timore: Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1978. 

Dunn,  John  (ed.).  West  African  States:  Failure  and  Promise.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Report:  Ivory  Coast,  1986-1987. 
London:  The  Economist,  1987. 

"EIB  Loan  for  Modernising  and  Replacing  Textile  Mill  Installa- 
tions in  Cote  d'lvoire,"  Telex  Africa  [Brussels],  No.  309,  Sep- 
tember 4,  1987,  8-9. 

Eponou,  Thomas.  "Development  Schemes  and  Their  Effect  on 
the  Cultural  Environment,"  Courier  [Brussels],  No.  100, 
November-December  1986,  83-86. 

Faure,  Y.-A.  "Le  complexe  politico-economique. "  Pages  21-60 
in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard  (eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote 
d'lvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

Faure,  Y.-A.,  and  J.-F.  Medard.  "Classe  dominante  ou  classe 
dirigeante?"  Pages  125-48  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard 
(eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

 .  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

Fieldhouse,  D.K.  Black  Africa,  1945-1980:  Economic  Decolonization 
and  Arrested  Development.  London:  Allen  and  Unwin,  1986. 

Gbagbo,  Laurent.  Cote  dTvoire:  Pour  une  alternative  democratique.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1983. 

Glewwe,  Paul.  The  Distribution  of  Welfare  in  Cote  dTvoire  in  1985. 
(Living  Standards  Measurement  Study  Series,  Working  Paper 
No.  29.)  Washington:  World  Bank,  1988. 

Hardy,  Chandra.  "Africa's  Debt:  Structural  Adjustment  with  Sta- 
bility." Pages  453-75  in  Robert  Berg  and  Jennifer  Whitaker 
(eds.),  Strategies  for  African  Development:  A  Study  for  the  Committee 
on  African  Development  Strategies.  Berkeley:  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1986. 

Harrison-Church,  R.  J.,  Richard  Synge,  and  Edith  Hodgkinson. 

"Cote  d'lvoire."  Pages  397-415  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara.  (17th 

ed.)  London:  Europa,  1987. 
Hecht,  Robert  M.  "The  Ivory  Coast  Economic  'Miracle':  What 

Benefits  for  Peasant  Farmers?"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 

[Cambridge],  No.  21,  March  1983,  25-53. 
"Interaction  News  and  Events,"  Monday  Developments,  6,  No.  5, 

April  4,  1988,  1-9. 
"Ivory  Coast."  Pages  B65-B75  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Con- 
temporary Record:  Annual  Survey  and  Documents,  1985-1986.  New 

York:  Africana,  1987. 
Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  982-99  in  George 

Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  2.  (3d  ed.) 

New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 


230 


Bibliography 


Lloyd's  Ports  of  the  World,  1987.  Essex,  United  Kingdom:  Lloyd's 
of  London  Press,  1987. 

Loucou,  J.-N.  "Histoire."  Pages  39-45  in  Pierre  Vennetier  (ed.), 
Atlas  de  la  Cote  dTvoire.  (2d  ed.)  Paris:  Jeune  Afrique,  1983. 

Ndulu,  Benno  J.  "Governance  and  Economic  Development." 
Pages  83-1 10  in  Robert  Berg  and  Jennifer  Whitaker  (eds.),  Strate- 
gies for  African  Development:  A  Study  for  the  Committee  on  African  De- 
velopment Strategies.  Berkeley:  University  of  California,  1986. 

Nyong'o,  Peter  Anyang'.  "The  Development  of  Agrarian  Capitalist 
Classes  in  the  Ivory  Coast,  1945-1975."  Pages  185-245  in  Paul 
Lubeck(ed-),  The  African  Bourgeoise.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1987. 

 "Liberal  Modes  of  Capitalist  Development  in  Africa:  Ivory 

Coast,"  Africa  Development  [London],  3,  No.  2,  April-June  1978, 
69-87. 

Regie  des  chemins  de  fer  Abidjan- Niger.  Rapport  annuel  exercice, 
1982-1983.  Abidjan:  Imprimerie  nationale,  1983. 

"Republique  de  Cote  d'lvoire,"  Europe  outremer  [Paris],  No.  686-7, 
March-April  1987,  78-86. 

"Themes  des  interventions  pour  1988,"  Afrique  Industrie  [Paris], 
No.  372,  July  1,  1987,  41-43. 

Toungara,  Jeanne  Maddox.  "Political  Reform  and  Economic 
Change  in  Ivory  Coast:  An  Update,"  Journal  of  African  Studies 
[London],  13,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  94-101. 

Toure,  Abdou.  "Paysans  et  fonctionnaires  devant  la  culture  et 
l'etat."  Pages  231-51  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard  (eds.), 
Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

Toure,  I.  "L'U.G.T.C.I.  etle  'developpement  harmonieux',"  Poli- 
tique africaine  [Paris],  No.  24,  December  1986,  79-90. 

United  Nations.  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  Economic 
and  Social  Policy  Department.  1988  Country  Tables.  Rome:  1988. 

 Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  FAO  Production  Year- 
book, 1987.  Rome:  1988. 

 .  "World  Trade  by  Countries  and  Regions, ' '  Monthly  Bulle- 
tin of  Statistics,  41,  No.  8,  August  1987,  112-13. 

United  States.  Department  of  Agriculture.  World  Indices  of  Agricul- 
ture. (Statistical  Bulletin,  No.  744.).  Washington:  GPO,  July 
1986. 

 .  Department  of  the  Interior.  Bureau  of  Mines.  Mineral  In- 
dustries of  Africa.  Washington:  1984. 

Vennetier,  Pierre  (ed.).  Atlas  de  la  Cote  dTvoire.  (2d  ed.)  Paris:  Jeune 
Afrique,  1983. 

World  Bank.  World  Debt  Tables.  Washington:  1988. 


231 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


World  Resources  Institute  for  Environment  and  Development. 
World  Resources,  1986.  New  York:  Basic  Books,  1986. 

Young,  Crawford.  "Africa's  Colonial  Legacy."  Pages  25-51  in 
Robert  Berg  and  Jennifer  Whitaker  (eds.),  Strategies  for  African 
Development:  A  Study  for  the  Committee  on  African  Development  Strate- 
gies. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1986. 

 .  Ideology  and  Development  in  Africa.  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity Press,  1982. 

Zartman,  I.  William.  International  Relations  in  the  New  Africa.  Engle- 
wood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1966. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London],  1980-88; 
Africa  Economic  Digest  [London],  1985-88;  Africa  Report,  1980-85; 
Africa  Research  Bulletin  [Exeter,  United  Kingdom],  1985-88;  Bulle- 
tin de  VAfrique  noire  [Paris],  1985-88;  Foreign  Broadcast  Infor- 
mation Service,  Daily  Report:  Subsaharan  Africa,  1985-87;  Jeune 
Afrique  [Paris],  1 983-88 ;  Jeune  Afrique  economie  [Paris],  1986-87;  Joint 
Publications  Research  Service,  Africa/Middle  East,  1985-87;  Le  Monde 
[Paris],  1985-88;  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneans,  [Paris],  1980- 
88;  Telex  Africa  [Brussels],  1985-88;  and  West  Africa  [London], 
1985-88.) 


Chapter  4 

Aggrey,  Albert.  Guide  des  institutions politiques  et  administraiives .  (Guides 

pratiques  du  droit  ivoirien  Series.)  Abidjan:  Juris-Conseils,  1983. 
Alschuler,  Lawrence  R.  Multinationals  and Maldevelopment.  New  York: 

St.  Martin's  Press,  1987. 
Amin,  Samir.  "Capitalism  and  Development  in  the  Ivory  Coast." 

Pages  277-88  in  I.L.  Markovitz  (ed.),  African  Politics  and  Society. 

New  York:  Free  Press,  1970. 
 .  Le  developpement  du  capitalisme  en  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Minuit, 

1967. 

 .  Neo-Colonialism  in  West  Africa.  New  York:  Monthly  Review 

Press,  1973. 

Amondji,  Marcel.  Cote  d'lvoire:  Le  PDCI  et  la  vie  politique  de  1944 

a  1985.  Paris:  L'Harmattan,  1986. 

 .  Felix  Houphouet  et  la  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1984. 

Bach,  D.  "L'Insertion  dans  les  rapports  internationaux. "  Pages 

89-121  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard  (eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie 

en  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 


232 


Bibliography 


Bakary,  Tessilimi.  "Elite  Transformation  and  Political  Succession." 
Pages  21-56  in  I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher  L.  Delga- 
do  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1984. 

Baulin,  Jacques.  La  politique  interieure  d'Houphouet-Boigny.  Paris: 

Eurafor  Press,  1982. 
Blackburn,  Brigitte.  "L'Afrique  poignardee  par  l'occident:  Le  cas 

de  la  Cote  dTvoire,"  Africa  International  [Dakar,  Senegal], 

No.  194,  April  1987,  13-16. 
Bourgoin,  Henri,  and  Philippe  Guilbaume.  La  Cote  dTvoire:  Economie 

et  societe.  Paris:  Stock,  1979. 
Bourke,  Gerald.  " A  Tarnished  Miracle,"  Africa  Report,  32,  No.  6, 

November-December  1987,  62-64. 
Brayton,  Abbott  A.  "Stability  and  Modernization:  The  Ivory  Coast 

Model,"  World  Affairs,  5,  No.  141,  Winter  1979,  235-49. 
Brooke,  James.  "Abidjan  Journal:  Black  Africa's  Oddities,  Pres- 
sures of  White  Power,"  New  York  Times,  August  20,  1987,  A-3. 
Campbell,  Bonnie.  "The  Ivory  Coast."  Pages  66-116  in  John 

Dunn  (c  J.),  West  African  States:  Failure  and  Promise.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 
 "The  State  and  Capitalist  Development  in  the  Ivory 

Coast."  Pages  281-303  in  Paul  M.  Lubeck  (ed.),  The  African 

Bourgeoisie.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 
Chabal,  Patrick  (ed.).  Political  Domination  in  Africa.  (African  Studies 

Series.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1986. 
Chauveau,  J.P.,  and  J.  Richard.  "Une  'peripheric  recentree'  a 

propos  d'un  systeme  local  d'economie  de  plantation  en  Cote 

^Tvoire,"  Cahiers  d}  etudes  africaines  [Paris],  17,  No.  68,  1977, 

485-523. 

Chipman,  John.  French  Military  Policy  and  African  Security.  London: 
International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1975. 

Cohen,  Michael  A.  "The  Myth  of  the  Expanding  Center — Politics 
in  the  Ivory  Coast,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London], 
11,  No.  2,  June  1973,  227-46. 

 Urban  Policy  and  Political  Conflict  in  Africa.  Chicago:  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 

 "Urban  Strategy  and  Development  Strategy."  Pages 

57-76  in  I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher  L.  Delgado  (eds.), 
The  Political  Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

Cote  dTvoire.  Constitution  de  a  Republique  de  Cote  dTvoire.  Abidjan: 
Imprimerie  nationale,  1980. 

 Ministere  de  1' economie  et  des  finances.  Projet  de  loi  de 

finances  pour  la  gestion  1986:  Rapport  economique  et  financier.  (Un- 
published report.)  Abidjan:  Direction  des  budgets  et  comptes, 
1986. 


233 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


 .  Ministere  du  plan  et  de  l'industrie.  Plan  quinquennal  de  de- 

veloppement  economique,  social  et  cultur el,  1981-1985.  (Unpublished 

document,  3  vols.)  Abidjan:  1983. 
Delorme,  Nicole.  "The  Foreign  Policy  of  the  Ivory  Coast."  Pages 

1 18-135  in  Olajide  Aluko  (ed.),  The  Foreign  Policies  of  African  States. 

London:  Hodder  and  Stoughton,  1977. 
Delury,  George  E.  (ed.).  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems  and 

Parties.  (Facts  on  File  Series,  1 .)  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 
den  Tuinder,  Bastiaan  A.  Ivory  Coast:  The  Challenge  of  Success.  Balti- 
more: Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1978. 
Diallo,  Thierno.  "Les  societes  et  la  civilisation  des  Peul."  Pages 

227-40  in  Mahdi  Adams  and  A.H.M.  Kirk-Greene  (eds.), 

Pastoralists  of  the  West  African  Savanna.  Manchester:  Manchester 

University  Press,  1986. 
Dunn,  John.  West  African  States:  Failure  and  Promise.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 
Faure,  Y.-A.  "Le  complexe  politico-economique. "  Pages  21-60 

in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard  (eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote 

dTvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 
Faure,  Y.-A.,  and  J.-F.  Medard.  "Classe  dominante  ou  classe 

dirigeante?"  Pages  125-48  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard 

(eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 
Faure,  Y.-A.  and  J.-F.  Medard.  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire. 

Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 
Fieldhouse,  D.K.  Black  Africa,  1945-1980.  Economic  Decolonization 

and  Arrested  Development.  London:  Allen  and  Unwin,  1986. 
Frelastre,  Georges.  "Cote  dTvoire:  Nouvelle  politique  de  de- 

veloppement  rural  sur  les  rails,"  Le  mois  en  Afrique  [Paris],  Nos. 

249-250,  October-November  1986,  97-104. 
Gastellu,  J.M.,  and  S.  Affou  Yapi.  "Un  mythe  a  decompose:  La 

'bourgeoisie  de  planteurs'."  Pages  149-180  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and 

J.-F.  Medard  (eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire.  Paris: 

Karthala,  1982. 

Gbagbo,  Laurent.  Cote  dTvoire:  Pour  une  alternative  democratique.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1983. 

 La  Cote  dTvoire:  Economie  et  societe  a  la  veille  de  Vindependance 

(1940-1960).  Paris:  L'Harmattan,  1982. 

Green,  Reginald  H.  "Reflections  on  Economic  Strategy,  Struc- 
ture, Implementation,  and  Necessity:  Ghana  and  Ivory  Coast, 
1957-1967."  Pages  231-64  in  Philip  Foster  and  Aristide  R. 
Zolberg  (eds.),  Ghana  and  Ivory  Coast:  Perspectives  on  Moderniza- 
tion. Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1971. 

Groff,  David.  "When  the  Knees  Began  Wearing  the  Hat:  Com- 
mercial Agriculture  and  Social  Transformation  in  Assikasso,  the 


234 


Bibliography 


Ivory  Coast,  1880-1940."  Pages  97-135  in  Paul  M.  Lubeck 
(ed.),  The  African  Bourgeoisie.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner, 
1987. 

Harrison-Church,  R.J.,  Richard  Synge,  and  Edith  Hodgkinson. 
"Coted'Ivoire."  Pages  397-415  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara.  (17th 
ed.)  London:  Europa,  1987. 

Hecht,  Robert  M.  "The  Ivory  Coast  Economic  'Miracle':  What 
Benefits  for  Peasant  Farmers?"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 
[Cambridge],  12,  No.  1,  March  1983,  25-53. 

Jackson,  Robert  H.,  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg.  Personal  Rule  in  Black 
Africa:  Prince,  Autocrat,  Prophet,  Tyrant.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1982. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  982-99  in  George 
Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  2.  (3d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Lamb,  David.  "A  Different  Path,"  The  Wilson  Quarterly,  12,  No.  4, 
Autumn  1988,  114-131. 

"La  Liberte  de  la  presse  en  Cote  dTvoire,"  Peuples  noirs — Peuples 
africains  [Paris],  7,  No.  41-2,  December  1984,  104-140. 

Leys,  Colin  (ed.).  Politics  and  Change  in  Developing  Countries.  Lon- 
don: Cambridge  University  Press,  1969. 

Loucou,  Jean-Noel.  "La  deuxieme  guerre  mondiale  et  ses  effets 
en  Cote  d'lvoire,"  Annates  de  VUniversite  d  Abidjan,  serie  I  [Abidjan], 
8,  1980,  183-207. 

Medard,  J.  F.  "La  regulation  socio-politique."  Pages  61-88  in  Y.-A. 
Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard  (eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire. 
Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

de  Miras,  C.  "L' Entrepreneur  ivoirien  ou  une  bourgeoisie  privee 
de  son  etat."  Pages  181-230  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard 
(eds.),  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire,  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

Morgenthau,  Ruth  Schachter.  Political  Parties  in  French-Speaking  West 
Africa.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1964. 

Mundt,  Robert  J.  Historical  Dictionary  of  the  Ivory  Coast.  (African 
Historical  Dictionaries,  No.  41.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scare- 
crow Press,  1987. 

 "Internal  Criticism  of  the  Ivoirian  Political  Regime." 

(Paper  presented  at  African  Studies  Association  Annual  Meet- 
ing.) Denver,  Colorado:  November  20,  1987. 

Naipaul,  V.S.  Finding  the  Center.  New  York:  Vintage  Books,  1984. 

Neuberger,  Benjamin.  National  Self  Determination  in  Postcolonial  Africa. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Nyong'o,  Peter  Anyang'.  "The  Development  of  Agrarian  Capitalist 
Classes  in  the  Ivory  Coast,  1945-1975."  Pages  185-245  in  Paul 
Lubeck  (ed.),  The  African  Bourgeoisie.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1987. 


235 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


 .  "Liberal  Modes  of  Capitalist  Development  in  Africa:  Ivory 

Coast,"  Africa  Development  [London],  3,  No.  2,  April-June  1978, 
69-87. 

Potholm,  Christian  P.  Four  African  Political  Systems.  Englewood  Cliffs, 
New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1970. 

Semi-Bi.  Zan.  "Genese  de  la  democratic  a  l'ivoirienne,"  Le  mois 
enAfrique  [Paris],  No.  249-50,  October-November  1986,  15-31. 

Staniland,  Martin.  "Single-Party  Regimes  and  Political  Change: 
The  P. D.C.I,  and  Ivory  Coast  Politics."  Pages  135-75  in  Colin 
Leys  (ed.),  Politics  and  Change  in  Developing  Countries.  London: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1969. 

Tay,  Hugues.  L  Administration  ivoirienne.  (Encylopedie  Administra- 
tive Series.)  Paris:  Berger-Levrault,  1974. 

Tice,  Robert  D.  "Administrative  Structure,  Ethnicity,  and  Nation- 
Building  in  Ivory  Coast ,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Lon- 
don], 12,  No.  2,  June  1974,  211-29. 

Toungara,  Jeanne  Maddox.  "Political  Reform  and  Economic 
Change  in  Ivory  Coast:  An  Update,"  Journal  of  African  Studies 
[London],  13,  No.  3,  Fall  1986,  94-101. 

Toure,  Abdou.  La  civilisation  quotidienne  en  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Edi- 
tions Karthala,  1981. 

 "Paysans  et  fonctionnaires  devant  la  culture  et  l'etat." 

Pages  231-51  in  Y.-A.  Faure  and  J.-F.  Medard  (eds.),  Etat  et 
bourgeoisie  en  Cote  d'lvoire.  Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

Toure,  I.  "L'U.G. T.C.I,  etle  'developpement  harmonieux',"  Poli- 
tique africaine  [Paris],  No.  24,  December  1986,  79-90. 

Ungar,  Sanford  J.  Africa:  The  People  and  Politics  of  an  Emerging  Con- 
tinent. New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1986. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Ivory  Coast  Post  Report.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  December  1985. 

Vennetier,  Pierre  (ed.).  Atlas  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire.  (2d  ed.)  Paris:  Jeune 
Afrique,  1983. 

Weiskel,  Timothy.  "Independence  and  the  Longue  Duree:  The  Ivory 
Coast  'Miracle'  Reconsidered."  Pages  347-80  in  Prosser  Gifford 
and  William  Rogers  Louis  (eds.),  Decolonization  and  African 
Independence.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1988. 

 "Mission  civilisatrice,"  The  Wilson  Quarterly,  12,  No.  4, 

Autumn  1988,  97-113. 

Welch,  Claude  E.,  Jr.  No  Farewell  to  Arms?  Military  Disengagement 
from  Politics  in  Africa  and  Latin  America.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1987. 

Young,  Crawford.  Ideology  and  Development  in  Africa.  New  Haven: 
Yale  University  Press,  1982. 

Zartman,  I.  William,  and  Christopher  L.  Delgado.  "Introduction." 
Pages  1-20  in  I.  William  Zartman  and  Christopher  L.  Delgado 


236 


Bibliography 


(eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Praeger, 
1984. 

 .  The  Political  Economy  of  the  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger, 1984. 

Zolberg,  Aristide  R.  Creating  Political  Order.  (Rand  McNally  Studies 
in  Political  Change  Series.)  Chicago:  1966. 

 .  One-Party  Government  in  the  Ivory  Coast,  (rev.  ed.)  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1969. 

 "La  Redecouverte  de  la  Cote  d'lvoire, ' '  Politique  africaine 

[Paris],  No.  9,  March  1983,  118-131. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London],  1980-88; 
Africa  Economic  Digest  [London],  1985-88;  Africa  Report,  1980-85; 
Africa  Research  Bulletin  [Exeter,  United  Kingdom],  1985-88;  Afri- 
can Defence  [Paris],  1985-88;  Afrique-Asie  [Paris],  1985-87;  Afrique 
Defense  [Paris],  1985-88;  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service, 
Daily  Report:  Subsahara  Africa,  1985-87;  Fraternite  matin  [Abidjan], 
1985-88;  Guardian  [Manchester],  1986-87 ';  Jeune  Afrique  [Paris], 
1 983-87 ;  Jeune  Afrique  economie  [Paris],  1986-87;  Joint  Publications 
Research  Service,  Africa/Middle  East,  1985-87;  Le  Monde  [Paris], 
1985-88;  Marches  tropicaux  et  mediterraneens  [Paris],  1980-88;  and  West 
Africa  [London],  1985-88.) 


Chapter  5 

Abidjan  Institute  of  Criminology.  First  West  African  Conference  in  Com- 
parative Criminology.  Abidjan:  June  1972 

Aggrey,  Albert.  Guides  des  institutions  politiques  et  administratives . 
Abidjan:  Juris-Conseils,  1983. 

Air  Forces  of  the  World,  1986,  Geneva:  Interavia  Data,  1986. 

Amnesty  International.  Amnesty  International  Report,  1986.  London: 
1986. 

Andrade,  John  M.  "Ivory  Coast."  Page  106  in  John  M.  Andrade 
(ed.),  World  Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces.  New  York:  Stockton 
Press,  1985. 

Asiwaju,  A.I.  "Control  Through  Coercion:  A  Study  of  the  Indigenat 
Regime  in  French  West  African  Administration,  1887-1946," 
Bulletin  de  Vinstitut fondamental  de  V Afrique  noire  [Dakar,  Senegal], 
41,  No.  1,  January  1979,  35-71. 

 "Migrations  as  Revolt:  The  Example  of  the  Ivory  Coast 

and  the  Upper  Volta  Before  1945 ,"  Journal  oj  African  History  [Lon- 
don], 17,  No.  4,  1976,  577-94. 


237 


Cote  dTvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Balesi,  Charles  John.  From  Adversaries  to  Comrades-in-Arms :  West  Afri- 
cans and  the  French  Military,  1885-1918.  Waltham,  Massachusetts: 
Crossroads  Press,  1979. 

Campbell,  Bonnie.  "The  Ivory  Coast."  Pages  66-116  in  John 
Dunn  (ed.),  West  African  States:  Failures  and  Promise.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1978. 

Clinard,  Marshall  B.,  and  Daniel  J.  Abbott.  Crime  in  Developing 
Countries:  A  Comparative  Perspective.  New  York:  John  Wiley  and 
Sons,  1973. 

Cohen,  Michael  A.  Urban  Policy  and  Political  Conflict  in  Africa:  A  Study 

of  the  Ivory  Coast.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 
Couhat,  Jean  Labayle  (ed.).  Combat  Fleets  of  the  World,  1986-1987, 

Annapolis:  Naval  Institute  Press,  1986. 
Cote  dT voire.  Ministere  de  la  fonction  publique.  Recueil  de  textes 

et  documents.  Abidjan:  Imprimerie  nationale,  1974. 
 Ministere  de  1' information.  Annuaire  administratif.  Abidjan: 

Imprimerie  nationale,  1980. 
Davis,  Shelby  Cullom.  Reservoirs  of  Men:  A  History  of  the  Black  Troops 

of  French  West  Africa.  1934.  Reprint.  Westport,  Connecticut: 

Negro  Universities  Press,  1970. 
Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook,  1986,  Washington:  Perth,  1986. 
Delorme,  Nicole.  "The  Foreign  Policy  of  the  Ivory  Coast."  Pages 

118-35  in  Oaljide  Aluko  (ed.),  The  Foreign  Policies  of  African  States. 

London:  Hodder  and  Stoughton,  1977. 
Dennis,  Barry  M.  "Ivory  Coast."  Separate  pamphlet  in  A. P. 

Blaustein  and  G.H.  Flanz  (eds.),  Constitutions  of  the  Countries  of 

the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1978,  with  1980 

update. 

Faure,  Y.-A.,  and  J.-F.  Medard.  Etat  et  bourgeoisie  en  Cote  dTvoire. 
Paris:  Karthala,  1982. 

France.  Ministere  des  affaires  etrangeres.  Cote  dTvoire:  Mission 
Hugues  Le  Roux.  Paris:  Imprimerie  Jean  Cussac,  1918. 

Gastil,  Raymond  D.  "Ivory  Coast."  Page  320  in  Raymond  D. 
Gastil  (ed.),  Freedom  in  the  World:  Political  Rights  and  Civil  Liber- 
ties, 1985-1986.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Gbagbo,  Laurent.  Cote  dTvoire:  Pour  une  alternative  democratique.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1983. 

Goldsworthy,  David.  "Armies  and  Politics  in  Civilian  Regimes." 
Pages  97-18  in  Simon  Baynham  (ed.),  Military  Power  and  Politics 
in  Black  Africa.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1986. 

 .  "Civilian  Control  of  the  Military  in  Black  Africa,"  Afri- 
can Affairs  [London],  80,  No.  318,  January  1981,  49-74. 

Hanning,  Hugh.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  133-40  in  Hugh  Hanning 
(ed.),  Peaceful  Uses  of  Military  Forces.  New  York:  Praeger,  1967. 


238 


Bibliography 


Harrison-Church,  R.J.,  Richard  Synge,  and  Edith  Hodgkinson. 
"Coted'Ivoire."  Pages  397-415  in  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara.  (17th 
ed.)  London:  Europa,  1987. 

Harshe,  Rajen.  Pervasive  Entente:  France  and  Ivory  Coast  in  African  Af- 
fairs. Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey:  Humanities  Press,  1984. 

Hughes,  Arnold,  and  Roy  May.  "Armies  on  Loan:  Toward  an 
Explanation  of  Transnational  Military  Intervention  Among  Black 
African  States,  1960-1985."  Pages  177-202  in  Simon  Baynham 
(ed.),  Military  Power  and  Politics  in  Black  Africa.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1986. 

Humana,  Charles,  "Ivory  Coast."  Page  145  in  Charles  Humana 
(ed.),  World  Human  Rights  Guide.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

"The  Ivory  Coast."  Pages  378-84  in  Charles  S.  Rhyne  (ed.),  Law 
and Judicial  Systems  of  Nations.  (3d  ed.),  Washington:  World  Peace 
Through  Law  Center,  1978. 

"Ivory  Coast."  Pages  B65-B75  in  Colin  Legum  (ed.),  Africa  Con- 
temporary Record:  Annual  Survey  and  Documents,  1985-1986.  New 
York:  Africana,  1987. 

"Ivory  Coast."  Pages  197-209  in  Sidney  Taylor  (ed.),  The  New 
Africans.  New  York:  CP.  Putnam  and  Sons,  1967. 

Jackson,  Robert  H.,  and  Carl  G.  Rosberg.  Personal  Rule  in  Black 
Africa:  Prince,  Autocrat,  Prophet,  Tyrant.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1982. 

Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1987-1988.  London:  Jane's,  1987. 

Krivinyi,  Nikolaus.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  44-45  in  Nikolaus 
Krivinyi  (ed.),  World  Military  Aviation,  (rev.  ed.)  New  York:  Arco, 
1977. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  982-99  in  George 
Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  2.  (3d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Labayle  Couhat,  Jean.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  282-83  in  Jean 
Labayle  Couhat  (ed.),  Combat  Fleets  of  the  World  1986-1987. 
(Trans.,  A.D.  Baker,  III.)  Annapolis,  Maryland:  Naval  Insti- 
tute Press,  1986. 

Lubeck,  Paul  M.  (ed.).  The  African  Bourgeoisie:  Capitalist  Develop- 
ment in  Nigeria,  Kenya,  and  the  Ivory  Coast.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Lynne  Rienner,  1987. 

Marenin,  Otwin.  "Policing  African  States:  Toward  a  Critique," 
Comparative  Politics,  14,  No.  4,  July  1982,  379-96. 

Mathews,  Lloyd.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  320-21  in  John  Keegan 
(ed.),  World  Armies.  (2d  ed.)  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

The  Military  Balance,  1986-1987.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1986. 


239 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1987. 

Moose,  George.  "French  Military  Policy  in  Africa."  Pages  59-97 
in  William  J.  Foltz  and  Henry  S.  Bienen  (eds.),  Arms  and  the 
African.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1985. 

O'Sullivan,  JohnM.  "The  Franco-Baoule  War,  1891-1911:  The 
Struggle  Against  the  French  Conquest  of  Central  Ivory  Coast," 
Journal  of  African  Studies,  5,  No.  3,  Fall  1978,  329-56. 

Pabanel,  Jean-Pierre.  Les  coups  d'etat  militaires  en  Afrique  noire.  Paris: 
L'Harmattan,  1984. 

Pope,  Barbara  H.  "Ivory  Coast."  Page  62  in  Barbara  H.  Pope 
(ed.),  World  Defense  Forces.  Santa  Barbara,  California:  ABC- 
CLIO,  1987. 

Potholm,  Christian  P.  Four  African  Political  Systems.  Englewood  Cliffs, 
New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1970. 

 .  "The  Multiple  Roles  of  the  Police  as  Seen  in  the  African 

Context,"  Journal  of  Developing  Areas  [London],  3,  No.  2,  Janu- 
ary 1969,  139-57. 

Sellers,  Robert  C.  "Ivory  Coast."  Pages  113-14  in  Robert  C. 
Sellers  (ed.),  Armed  Forces  of  the  World:  A  Reference  Handbook.  (4th 
ed.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1977. 

Shelley,  Louise  I.  Crime  and  Modernization:  The  Impact  of  Industriali- 
zation and  Urbanization  on  Crime.  Carbondale,  Illinois:  Southern 
Illinois  University  Press,  1981. 

Tay,  Hugues.  L  Administration  ivoirienne.  Paris:  Berger-Levrault, 
1974.  ' 

Taylor,  Charles  Lewis,  and  David  A.  Jodice.  World  Handbook  of 
Political  and  Social  Indicators.  (2  vols.)  (3d  ed.)  New  Haven:  Yale 
University  Press,  1983. 

Teya,  Pascal  Koffi.  Cote  d'lvoire:  Le  roi  est  nu.  Paris:  L'Harmattan, 
1985. 

Thompson,  Virginia  M.  West  Africa's  Council  of  the  Entente.  Ithaca: 
Cornell  University  Press,  1972. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  Arms  Con- 
trol and  Disarmament  Agreements:  Texts  and  Histories  of  Negotiations. 
Washington:  GPO,  1982. 

 Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Military 

Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1986.  (Annual  Series,  No.  127.) 
Washington:  GPO,  April  1987. 

 .  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook,  1987, 

Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tice for  1986:  Report  submitted  to  the  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations, 


240 


Bibliography 


U.S.  Senate,  and  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs,  U.S.  House  of  Represen- 
tatives. Washington:  GPO,  February  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Office  of  the  Legal  Adviser.  Treaty 

Affairs  Staff.  Treaties  in  Force,  1987.  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Report  to  Congress  on  Voting  Practices 

in  the  United  Nations.  Washington:  GPO,  April  23,  1987. 

Welch,  Claude  E.,  Jr.  "Cote  dTvoire:  Personal  Rule  and  Civilian 
Control."  Pages  172-94  in  Claude  E.  Welch,  Jr.  (ed.),  No  Fare- 
well to  Arms?  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

World  Armaments  and  Disarmament:  Stockholm  International  Peace  Research 
Institute  Yearbook,  1986.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1986. 

Woronoff,  Jon.  West  African  Wager:  Houphouet  Versus  Nkrumah. 
Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1972. 

Zartman,  I.  William.  International  Relations  in  the  New  Africa.  Engle- 
wood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey:  Prentice-Hall,  1966. 

Zartman,  I.  William,  and  Christopher  Delgado  (eds.).  The  Politi- 
cal Economy  of  Ivory  Coast.  New  York:  Praeger,  1984. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Afrique  Defense  [Paris],  1985-87;  Defense 
Africaine  [Paris],  1985-87;  and  Fraternite  matin  [Abidjan],  1985-88.) 


241 


Glossary 


barrels  per  day  (bpd) — Production  of  crude  oil  and  petroleum 
products  is  frequently  measured  in  barrels  per  day,  often  ab- 
breviated 4 'bpd"  or  "bd."  A  barrel  is  a  volume  measure  of 
forty-two  United  States  gallons.  Conversion  of  barrels  to  tons 
depends  on  the  density  of  the  specific  product.  About  7.3  bar- 
rels of  average  crude  oil  weigh  one  ton;  gasoline  and  kerosene 
average  closer  to  8  barrels  per  ton. 

canton — During  the  colonial  era,  referred  to  a  group  of  neighbor- 
ing villages  linked  either  by  ethnicity  or  by  direct  family  ties. 

CFA  franc — The  African  Financial  Community  (Communaute 
Financiere  Africaine — CFA)  franc,  the  currency  of  Cote  d'lvoire. 
In  1988  CFA  F315  equaled  US$1.  The  CFA,  an  organization 
that  includes  France  and  most  former  French  colonies  in  Africa, 
administers  currency  policy  in  the  franc  zone.  As  of  1988,  the 
CFA  maintained  a  currency  parity  between  French  francs  (FF) 
and  the  CFA  francs  of  West  Africa  at  the  rate  of  FF1  =  CFA 
F50.  Issuing  the  CFA  francs  is  the  Central  Bank  of  West  Afri- 
can States  (Banque  Centrale  des  Etats  de  l'Afrique  de 
l'Ouest — BCEAO),  which  is  based  in  Paris. 

cooperants — French  technical  assistants  and  teachers  under  contract 
to  the  Ivoirian  government  for  a  fixed  period.  Cooperants  gener- 
ally received  higher  salaries  than  local  counterparts  and  were 
exempted  from  many  customs  regulations.  Until  1986  the 
Ivoirian  government  assumed  responsibility  for  paying  cooper- 
ants; after  1986  their  salaries  were  included  in  the  foreign  aid 
provided  by  France. 

coutumes — Literally,  "customs,  mores,  or  practices."  Fixed,  annual 
fees  paid  by  colonial  authorities  to  local  rulers  to  secure  trad- 
ing rights  or  permission  to  establish  permanent  settlements. 
Payment  of  coutumes  constituted  a  de  facto  recognition  of  lower 
status  and  ceased  when  the  colonial  administration  felt  it  could 
impose  its  will  on  local  chiefs. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — the  calendar  year. 

French  West  Africa  (Afrique  Occidentale  Francaise — AOF) — The 
collection  of  territories  under  French  colonial  rule  until  1960. 
French  West  Africa  comprised  what  in  1988  was  Mauritania, 
Mali,  Burkina  Faso,  Guinea,  Cote  d'lvoire,  Niger,  Togo,  and 
Benin. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  the  value  of  domestic 
goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a  period  of 


243 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 

time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods  for  final  con- 
sumption and  investment  are  included  because  the  values  of 
primary  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed  to  be  in- 
cluded in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated  and  shown 
at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are 
included;  when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the  result  is  GDP 
at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indicates  that  deductions  for 
depreciation  of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — The  gross  domestic  product  (q.  v. ) 
plus  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  transactions  with  for- 
eign countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measure  of  the  output  of 
goods  and  services  by  an  economy. 

indigenat — Refers  to  denizenship  and  rights  of  natives.  In  colonial 
French  West  Africa  (q.v.),  the  colonial  system  of  discipline 
characterized  by  arbitrary  and  summary  judgments  accorded 
Africans  living  in  rural  areas.  The  indigenat  was  abolished  in  1946. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.  v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency  affi- 
liated with  the  United  Nations  and  is  responsible  for  stabilizing 
international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  business 
of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members  (including 
industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they  experience 
balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  frequently  carry 
conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  economic  adjustments 
by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  developing  countries. 

London  Club — A  noninstitutional  framework  within  which  bank 
advisory  committees  conduct  negotiations  between  debtor  coun- 
tries and  the  private  banks  holding  the  loans.  The  advisory  com- 
mittees form  in  response  to  requests  for  debt  restructuring  and 
consist  of  individuals  representing  major  loan  holders  in  the 
key  creditor  countries.  The  London  Club  typically  reschedules 
principal  falling  due  and  principal  in  arrears;  interest  is  not 
covered  by  any  agreement  and  must  be  paid  along  with  any 
outstanding  arrearages  before  any  agreement  can  take  effect. 

Paris  Club — A  noninstitutional  framework  whereby  developed  na- 
tions that  have  made  loans  or  guaranteed  official  or  private  ex- 
port credits  to  developing  nations  meet  to  discuss  borrowers' 
ability  to  repay  debts.  The  organization,  which  met  for  the  first 
time  in  1956,  has  no  formal  or  institutional  existence  and  no 
fixed  membership.  Its  secretariat  is  run  by  the  French  trea- 
sury, and  it  has  a  close  relationship  with  the  World  Bank  (q.  v.), 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  (q.v.),  and  the  United  Na- 
tions Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD). 


244 


Glossary 


Western  Sudan — That  part  of  French  West  Africa  (q.  v.)  compris- 
ing in  1988  the  state  of  Mali. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less- 
developed  countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers 
of  the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  three 
institutions  are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that 
subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


245 


Index 


Abbe  people,  56 

Abidjan:  concentration  of  population  in, 
26;  courts  in,  151-2;  crime  in,  211;  Ebrie 
population  in,  56;  land  concessions  in, 
77;  life  expectancy  in,  86;  as  military 
region,  189-  90,  192;  petroleum  fields 
near,  125;  as  port,  131;  as  principal  city, 
16;  as  railroad  terminal,  129;  roads  in, 
130;  social  unrest  in,  xxx;  telecommu- 
nications in,  133;  university  in,  81,  84 

Abidjan-Niger  Railroad  (Regie  du  Chemin 
de  Fer  Abidjan-Niger:  RAN),  129-30 

Abidjan-Port  Bouet  International  Air- 
port, 132-33 

Abidjan  Stock  Exchange  (Bourse  de  Valeurs 
d' Abidjan),  104 

Abidjan  University  (see  also  National  Uni- 
versity of  Cote  d'lvoire),  27 

Abidji  people,  56 

Abolition  of  Slavery,  Supplementary  Con- 
vention (1956),  206 
Aboure  people,  56 

Abron  (Brong)  people,  xxiv,  xxvi,  7,  56 

Academy  of  Oceanographic  Sciences  and 
Technology,  197 

accords,  military  (1961),  197-98 

Adioukrou  people,  56 

administration,  government  (see  also  mili- 
tary organization;  specific  ministries), 
24,  146,  207;  autonomous  communi- 
ties as,  155-56;  cercles  (French  colonial), 
13-14;  divisions  of,  25-26,  207;  prefec- 
ture administration  of,  24-25,  153-54, 
189,  207;  Subprefectural  Council  of,  155; 
subprefectures  (sous-prefetures)  of,  24-25, 
154-55,  207 

Administrative  Section  (Supreme  Court), 
152 

Advisory  Labor  Committee,  108 
African  Agricultural  Union  (Syndicat 
Agricole  Africain:  SAA),  4,  17;  opposi- 
tion of,  73-74;  pressure  for  colonial  re- 
form of,  xxv,  20 
African  Civic  Action  Program,  200 
African  Democratic  Rally  (Rassemble- 
ment  Democratique  Africain:  RDA), 
19,  20 


African  Development  Bank,  138 
African  Financial  Community  (Com- 

munaute  Financiere  Africaine),  102 
Agip,  126 

Agni  (Anyi)  people,  xxiv,  xxvi,  7,  28,  49; 
Christianity  among,  72,  73;  culture  of, 
54-56;  rebellion  of,  7,  28,  55 

agricultural  sector  (see  also  cocoa  industry; 
coffee  industry;  exports;  food  process- 
ing industry;  planter  class):  expansion 
of,  93;  exports  of,  xxvii,  4,  26,  30, 
94-95, 109-10,  112-17,  121-22,  134; 
food  crops  of,  117-20;  foreign  workers 
in,  xxvi,  106-7,  205;  forest  and  savanna 
regions  of,  110-11;  labor  force  employ- 
ment in,  105;  livestock  and  poultry  in, 
120;  performance  of,  109-10;  planta- 
tion elite  in,  19,  73;  under  Vichy 
government,  16 

Ahmadiya  brotherhood,  70 

Aid  and  Cooperation  Fund  (Fond  d'Aide 
et  de  Cooperation:  FAC),  138 

AIDS,  87-88 

Air  Afrique,  133 

air  bases,  191-92 

air  fields,  129,  133,  192 

air  force  (see  also  Ivoirian  Air  Force),  183 

Air  France,  133 

Air  Ivoire,  133,  191 

airports,  129,  132-33 

Air  Transport  Union  (Union  des  Trans- 
ports Aeriens:  UTA),  133 

Akan  people  (see  also  Agni  (Anyi)),  xxvi, 
7,  47,  48;  influence  of,  61;  religions  of, 
66,  68;  society  of,  53-56 

Albania,  173 

Alepe,  45 

Algeria,  177,  185 

Alladian  people,  56 

Alliali,  Camille,  158 

Angoulvant,  Gabriel,  xxiv,  11 

AOF.  See  French  West  Africa  (Afrique 
Occidentale  Francaise:  AOF) 

armed  forces  (see  also  Armed  Forces  of  Cote 
d'lvoire;  conscription;  military  train- 
ing; veterans),  169-70;  chain  of  com- 
mand in,  187;  expansion  of,  186;  of 
French  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  170,  198-99; 


247 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


under  Houphouet-Boigny,  25,  27-28; 

increased  political  role  for,  203-4; 

recruitment  for,  192;  role  and  strength 

of,  183-84,  200-201 
Armed  Forces  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Force 

Armee  Nationale  de  Cote  d'lvoire: 

FANCI),  187,  189-92,  203 
army.  See  Armed  Forces  of  Cote  d'lvoire 

(Force  Armee  Nationale  de  Cote  d'lvoire: 

FANCI) 

Asante  kingdom  (see  also  Ghana),  49,  53 
Asante  people,  7 

assimilation:  Africans  under  policy  of,  12; 

Agni  and  Baoule  policy  for,  55;  French 

colonial  policy  for,  12 
Assini,  3,  8 

Association  of  Ivoirian  Women  (Associ- 
ation des  Femmes  Ivoiriennes:  AFI), 
79 

association  policy,  French  colonial,  12 
Attie  people,  56 

Audit  and  Control  Section  (Supreme 

Court),  152 
Avikam  people,  56 
Ayame  I  dam,  124 
Ayame  II  dam,  124 
Ayame  (reservoir/lake),  45 

Bafing  River,  45 
Bagbe  River,  45 

balance  of  payments,  94,  96,  97,  134- 

35 

Ballou,  Joseph,  187 

Bambara  people,  50,  59-60 

banana  industry,  116 

Bandama  Blanc  River,  43,  44,  45,  49 

Bandama  Rouge  River,  43,  44,  45 

Bandama  Valley  Authority  (Autorite  de 
la  Vallee  de  la  Bandama:  AVB),  99 

banking  system,  102-3 

Banny,  Jean  Konan,  187,  190,  204 

Baoule  people,  xxiv,  3,  7,  17,  49;  culture 
of,  55-56;  as  ethnic  group,  xxvi;  repre- 
sentation in  government  of,  166;  syn- 
cretic religions  among,  73 

Baptists,  72 

Baroan,  Bertin  Zeze,  187 
barrier  islands  (cordon  littoral),  40 
BCEAO.  See  Central  Bank  of  West  Afri- 
can States  (Banque  Centrale  des  Etats 
de  L'Afrique  de  l'Ouest:  BCEAO) 
Bechio,  Jean  Jacques,  158 


Bedie,  Henri  Konan,  xxix,  32,  158;  and 
National  Assembly,  149;  and  succes- 
sion, 165 

Belier  oil  field,  125-26,  127 

Benin,  13,  23,  173-74 

Berlin  Conference  (1885),  9 

Bete  people,  xxvi,  28,  49,  57-58 

Bia  River,  45 

Binger,  Louis,  xxiv,  10 

Bobo  Dioulasso  region,  17 

Bobo  people,  64 

Bondoukou,  7,  43,  44 

Botty,  Koffi,  209 

Bouake,  118,  151-2,  183,  202;  as  military 
region,  189,  191,  193,  196;  prison,  211 

Brazzaville  Conference  (1944),  16-18 

Britain,  9,  10,  200 

brotherhoods  of  Islam,  70 

BSIE.  See  Special  Investment  and  Capi- 
tal Equipment  Budget  (Budget  Spe- 
cial d'Investissement  et  d'Equipement: 
BSIE) 

budget  deficit,  30 

budgets,  domestic  (see  also  spending,  pub- 
lic), 100-102 
Burkinabe  people,  xxvi,  10,  64,  175,  205 
Burkina  Faso,  10,  23,  45;  border  with,  40; 
immigrants  from,  106,  171,  175,  205; 
relations  with,  173-75;  Voltaic  cultures 
in,  60-61 

Buyo  hydroelectric  facility  and  dam,  95, 
124 

Buyo  reservoir/lake,  45 


Canada,  138 

cantons,  154,  155 

Cape  Palmas,  45 

capital  flows,  xxviii,  96,  102-3 

cassava  cultivation,  118-20 

Cavally  River,  43,  44-45 

CCCE.  See  Central  Fund  for  Economic 
Cooperation  (Caisse  Centrale  pour  la 
Cooperation  Economique:  CCCE) 

CEAO.  See  Economic  Community  of  West 
Africa  (Communaute  Economique  de 
l'Afrique  Occidental :  CEAO) 

Center  for  Antipollution  Control,  197 

Central  Bank  of  West  African  States 
(Banque  Centrale  des  Etats  de  l'Afrique 
de  l'Ouest:  BCEAO),  102,  104 

Central  Fund  for  Economic  Cooperation 


248 


Index 


(Caisse  Centrale  pour  la  Cooperation 
Economique:  CCCE),  125,  138 
cercles,  13-14 

Cesareo,  Antoine,  166-67 
Chad,  177 

Charles,  Donwahi,  158 
Chevron  Oil  Company,  127 
China:  relations  with,  177,  178 
Christianity  (see  also  Baptists;  Methodists; 

Roman  Catholicism),  64 
civil  defense,  189 
civil  rights,  146-47 
civil  servants,  73,  77,  105 
climate,  45-46 

Coastal  Security  Program,  200 

cocoa  industry,  xxiii,  xxvii,  26,  30,  94, 

95,  96-97,  109-10,  112,  138 
coffee  industry,  xxiii,  xxvii,  26,  30,  94, 

95,  96-97,  109-10,  112-13,  138 
Coffie,  Joseph,  168 

Commodity  Marketing  and  Price  Control 
Board  (Caisse  de  Stabilisation  et  de  Sou- 
tien  des  Prix  de  Production  Agricole: 
CSSPPA),  98,  99,  101,  110,  137 
Communist  Party,  France,  xxv,  20-21 
Communist  Study  Groups,  16,  19 
communities,  autonomous,  155-56 
Comoenou  kingdom,  55 
Comoe  River,  44,  45 
Companies  for  the  Security  of  the  Republic 
(Compagnies  Republicaines  de  Securite: 
CRS),  208 
Company  of  Pioneers,  202 
Compaore,  Blaise,  175 
conscription,  147,  184-85,  192 
Constituent  Assembly  (France),  17-18 
constitution:  of  French  Fourth  Republic 
(1946),  18,  19;  reforms  of  1946  (1956): 
lot  cadre,  22;  of  French  Fifth  Republic 

(1958)  ,  xxv,  22-23,  145;  of  Cote  d'lvoire 

(1959)  ,  23 

Constitution  (1960):  of  Cote  d'lvoire, 
xxv-xxvi,  24,  145-56;  criminal  justice 
system,  210;  provisions  related  to  mili- 
tary of,  186;  provisions  related  to  suc- 
cession, 165 

Constitutional  Section  (Supreme  Court), 
152,  153 

Convention  on  the  Political  Rights  of 

Women  (1953),  206 
Convention   on   the   Prevention  and 

Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide 

(1948),  206 


cooperants,  106,  170,  198 

corruption,  xxviii,  34,  163,  172,  192 

Cote  d'lvoire  Credit  Bank  (Credit  de  la 
Cote  d'lvoire:  CCI),  103 

cotton  industry,  96,  115 

Coulibaly,  Addoulaye,  190-91 

Coulibaly,  Ibrahim,  187 

Coulibaly,  Mamadou,  31 

Council  of  Government,  22 

Council  of  Ministers,  148,  152,  186 

Council  of  the  Entente  (Conseil  de  l'En- 
tente),  23,  173;  economic  aid  from, 
138;  formation  and  function  of,  173-74; 
French  military  guarantees  to,  197-98 

coups  d'etat:  attempts  in  Cote  d'lvoire, 
30,  203,  204;  in  Burkina  Faso  (1983), 
147,  174-75;  in  Ghana  (1966),  174;  in 
Liberia  (1990),  175;  in  Niger  (1974), 
30,  203 

courts  of  appeal,  152 

courts  of  assize,  151 

courts  of  first  instance,  151-52 

court  system,  146,  151-53,  210 

court  system,  military,  193 

coutume,  8,  11 

Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
(1966),  206 

Covenant  on  Economic,  Social,  and  Cul- 
tural Rights  (1966),  206 

crime,  xxviii,  138-39,  163;  causes  of, 
211-12;  controls  for,  212-13;  increase 
in,  xxiii,  34,  89,  138,  163 

CSSPPA.  See  Commodity  Marketing  and 
Price  Control  Board  (Caisse  de  Stabili- 
sation et  de  Soutien  des  Prix  de  Produc- 
tion Agricole:  CSSPPA) 

cultural  groups:  of  East  Atlantic  region, 
53-56;  identification  with,  349;  in  la- 
goon region,  49,  56,  72;  of  Mande  re- 
gion, 58-60;  regions  designated  for, 
48-50;  Voltaic  people  as,  60-61;  of  West 
Adantic  region,  56-59 

currency:  of  African  Financial  Commu- 
nity, 102;  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  94 

Czechoslovakia,  173 


Dahomey  (see  also  Benin):  as  colony  of 
French  West  Africa,  13;  in  Entente,  23; 
in  Mali  Federation,  23;  military  accord 
(1961),  197-98 

Daloa,  192. 

dams,  45,  111,  121,  123-24 


249 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Dan  Mountains,  43 
Dan  people,  xxvi,  58-59 
Davo  River,  45 

debt,  external,  xxiii,  xxviii,  33,  94,  96, 
97,  100,  135-38 

defense:  local  organization  of,  188-89; 
network  in  francophone  Africa  for,  19; 
organization  for,  186-87;  policy  for, 
183-84,  185,  186-87,  188-89,  192; 
purchase  of  equipment  for,  200 

Defense  Committee  (see  also  High  Defense 
Council),  186 

defense  spending.  See  spending,  public 

deforestation,  113-4,  138 

de  Gaulle,  Charles,  xxv,  16,  22 

Democratic  Party  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Parti 
Democratique  de  Cote  d'lvoire:  PDCI), 
4;  Committee  Directorate  of,  158,  160; 
control  of  student  dissent  by,  172;  de- 
centralization of,  32;  formation  of,  xxv, 
19;  Houphouet-Boigny  as  leader  of, 
xxv,  19,  73-74;  ideology  of,  21;  as  mass 
organization,  21;  opposition  to,  20,  34; 
organization  and  political  monopoly  of, 
21,  24-26,  156-60;  Political  Bureau  of, 
147,  158;  purge  and  reorganization  in, 
25-26;  relations  with  government  of, 
179;  role  of  military  in,  204 

Denise,  Auguste,  31,  158 

diamond  mining,  128 

Dida  people,  57-58 

Diori,  Hamani,  30,  174,  203 

Dioulo,  Emmanuel,  34 

discrimination,  French  colonial  adminis- 
tration (see  also  France,  colonial  ad- 
ministration and  colonial  policy  of), 
3-4,  12 

disease  (see  also  AIDS),  87 

Djedje  Mady,  Alphonse,  158 

Djenne,  5 

Djerma  people,  64 

Dogon  people,  64 

Dona  Fologo,  Laurent,  147,  158 

drought,  29,  96,  117,  124,  136 

drug  abuse,  xxviii,  89,  138-39,  163,  212 

East  Atlantic  Region,  48-49,  53-56 
Ebrie  Lagoon,  45,  131 
Ebrie  people,  56 

Economic  and  Social  Council  (Conseil 
Economique  et  Social),  146,  149,  151 
economic  assistance:  from  commercial 


creditors,  136;  from  France,  93,  138, 
170,  177;  from  Israel,  178;  from  Paris 
Club  donors,  136;  from  Western  coun- 
tries and  multilateral  agencies,  136-38 

Economic  Community  of  West  Africa 
(Communaute  Economique  de  l'Af- 
rique  Occidentale:  CEAO),  176 

Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS),  176,  197 

economic  development:  diversification, 
115;  by  France,  4;  infrastructure  de- 
velopment as,  48,  95-96,  121;  National 
Service  role  for,  187,  202 

economic  growth,  4,  26,  29,  93-94,  144, 
160,  162 

economic  performance:  based  on  agricul- 
tural exports,  4,  26,  30,  94-96,  109-10, 
121,  136-37;  changing  levels  of,  xxiii, 
34,  94-98;  effect  of  political  split  with 
communism  of,  20-21;  phases  of,  94 

economic  policy:  of  Houphouet-Boigny, 
94-98,  144;  long-term  planning  for,  99 

ECOWAS.  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  (ECOWAS) 

educational  system  (see  also  literacy; 
schools;  teachers;  university):  established 
by  Catholic  missionaries,  14;  improve- 
ment of,  40,  80-81,  85-86;  limited  ac- 
cess to,  77,  80;  primary,  secondary,  and 
higher,  81-84 

EECI.  See  Electrical  Energy  of  Ivory  Coast 
(Energie  Electrique  de  Cote  d'lvoire: 
EECI) 

EFA.  See  Military  Academy  (Ecole  des 
Forces  Armees:  EFA) 

Ehotile  people,  56 

Ekra,  Mathieu,  31,  158,  204 

Elections,  158,  161,  167 

Electrical  Energy  of  Ivory  Coast  (Ener- 
gie Electrique  de  Cote  d'lvoire:  EECI), 
124,  125 

electricity  production,  123-25 

elite  class.  See  political  system;  social 
structure 

Employment  Office  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  109 
EMPT.  See  Military  Preparatory  Tech- 
nical Academy  (Ecole  Militaire  Prepa- 
ratoire  Technique:  EMPT) 
energy,  123-25 

Energy  Management  Agency  (France), 
125 

Entente  Agreement  (1959).  197 
Entente  Council,  138 


250 


Index 


enterprises,  state-owned,  xxiii,  97-98 
Espoir  oil  and  gas  fields,  125,  127 
Establishment  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  9 
ethnic  associations,  74,  76 
ethnic  groups  (see  also  cultural  groups), 

xvi,  48-49 
ethnicity:  in  armed  forces,  204;  importance 

of,  50;  in  politics,  xxvii,  17,21,  27,  32, 

76,  160,  163,  164,  165-66;  problems  of, 

xxvi,  61,  64,  163 
European  Development  Fund,  138,  197 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC), 

134 

European  explorers,  7 
European  Investment  Bank,  125 
Ewe  people,  64 

Exclusive  Economic  Zones  (EEZ),  200 

executive  branch  of  government  (see  also 
Council  of  Ministers;  president;  specific 
ministries),  146,  147-48 

exports:  of  agricultural  products,  xxvii, 
4,  30,  94,  95,  109-10,  112-17,  121, 
122,  134;  to  France,  93,  134,  170;  in- 
centives for,  xxvii,  122-23;  markets  for, 
134;  of  non-agricultural  products,  122, 
134;  revenues  from,  26,  30,  94-96, 
109-10,  121,  136-37 

Exxon,  125-27 


FACI.  See  Ivoirian  Air  Force  (Force  Aer- 
ienne  de  Cote  d'lvoire:  FACI) 

Fadika,  Lamine,  190 

family  relationships,  51-53 

FANCI.  See  Armed  Forces  of  Cote  d'lvoire 
(Forces  Armees  Nationales  de  Cote 
d'lvoire:  FANCI) 

Fanti  people,  64 

feculents  (starches),  117 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  See  Ger- 
many, West 

Feredougouba  River,  45 

financial  system,  102-4 

fiscal  policy,  97 

fishing  industry,  120-21 

flooding,  440 

food  crops,  117-20 

Food  Marketing  Bureau  (Office  pour  la 
Commercialisation  des  Produits  Viv- 
iers:  OCPV),  120 

food  processing  industry,  95 

forced  labor  system,  xxiv,  3-4,  14,  18,  19 

foreign  borrowing.  See  debt,  external 


foreign  policy  (see  also  security,  interna- 
tional), 144,  172-79 

Forest  Development  Company  (Societe 
pour  le  Developpement  des  Forets: 
SODEFOR),  113-14 

forest  region  (see  also  deforestation),  5-6, 
40,  43,  110-11,  113,  120 

Foxtrot  gas  reserves,  127 

France  (see  also  discrimination,  French 
colonial  administration;  Free  French 
government;  French  West  Africa; 
Vichy  government):  as  arms  supplier, 
198;  assistance  with  internal  security 
by,  213;  autonomy  for  overseas  terri- 
tories of,  xxv,  22;  campaigns  against 
Samori  Toure,  10;  changing  colonial 
ambitions  of,  xxiii-xxiv,  8-9;  colonial 
administration  and  policy  of,  xxiv,  3-4, 
10,  12-14,  16-22,  47;  economic  and 
trade  relations  with,  21,  93,  134,  144, 
170,  176-77;  exploration  and  expan- 
sion in  Africa  of,  xxiv,  8-10,  11-13;  in- 
fluence of,  4,  14,  29,  145-46,  170,  183, 
186,  197,  199-200;  military  recruit- 
ment of  Ivoirians  by,  185;  military  rela- 
tions with,  144,  169,  170,  176-77, 
183-84,  197-99;  Ministry  of  Cooper- 
ation of,  106;  political  relations  with, 
134,  176-77;  treaties  with,  8,  170; 
Vichy  government  in,  xxv,  16,  185 

Franco-Ivoirian  Technical  Military  As- 
sistance Accord  (1961),  176-77,  185- 
86,  198 

Franco-Prussian  War  (1871),  xxiii,  8 

Free  French  government,  16 

French  Community,  xxv,  22;  Cote  d'lvoire 
withdraws  from  (1960),  23-24;  Mali 
Federation  of,  23 

French  Equatorial  Africa  (Afrique  Equa- 
toriale  Francaise:  AEF),  185 

French  nationals  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  xxvi- 
xxvii,  28-29,  93,  105-6,  166-67,  170 

French  Sudan  (see  also  Mali),  10 

French  Textile  Development  Company 
(Compagnie  Francaise  de  Developpe- 
ment des  Textiles:  CFDT),  115 

French  Union,  xxv,  18 

French  West  Africa  (Afrique  Occidentale 
Francaise:  AOF):  colonial  consolidation 
in,  13-14;  designation  in  French  Union 
of,  18;  under  Grand  Council  of  Dakar 
(1947),  20;  impact  of  World  War  II  on, 
xxiv-xxv,  16-21;  military  command 
structure  for,  184-85;  RDA  in,  20 


251 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Fulani  people,  59,  64 


Gabon,  176 

Gagnoa  uprising  (1970),  211 
Gambia,  8 
Gao,  5 

Gbagbo,  Laurent,  33,  172 

Gendarmerie  School  (Ecole  de  Gendar- 
merie), 209-10 

General  Federation  of  Ivoirian  Workers 
(Union  Generale  des  Travailleurs  de 
Cote  d'lvoire:  UGTCI),  85,  109,  168 

Geneva  Conventions  (1949),  206 

geographic  regions,  40 

German  Democratic  Republic.  See  Ger- 
many, East 

Germany,  9 

Germany,  East,  173 

Germany,  West,  138,  200 

Gervais,  Jeanne,  79 

Ghana,  53;  Akan  people  in,  49;  Asante 
people  in,  49;  border  with,  40;  relations 
with,  173-75;  Soninke  Empire  of,  59; 
Voltaic  cultures  in,  60-61 

Ghana  Empire,  5,  59 

gold  mining,  128 

Gomonaba  River,  45 

Gouro  people,  58-59 

Gourounsi  people,  64 

government  intervention:  in  economic  ac- 
tivity, xxvii,  98-100,  137;  in  informa- 
tion activities,  xxviii,  147,  164;  in  labor 
force  activities,  108,  168-69 

GPM.  See  Presidential  Guard  and  Militia 
(Garde  Presidentielle  et  Milice:  GPM) 

Grand-Bassam,  8 

Guaranteed  Minimum  Agricultural  Wage 
(Salaire  Minimum  Agricole  Garanti: 
SMAG),  108 

Guaranteed  Minimum  Interprofessional 
Wage  (Salaire  Minimum  Interprofes- 
sionel  Garanti:  SMIG),  108 

Guere  people,  57-58 

Guinea,  10,  45,  59;  border  with,  40;  as 
French  West  African  colony,  13;  rela- 
tions with,  173-74,  175 

Guinea-Bissau,  8 

Gulf  of  Guinea,  8,  40,  43,  44,  74,  131 

hadith.  See  Islam 
Hamallah,  71 


Hamallism.  See  Islam 

Harris,  William  Wade,  72 

Harrism,  72-73 

Hausa  people,  64 

health  care  system,  40,  87-88 

High  Committee  on  Intelligence,  186 

High  Court  of  Justice.  See  superior  courts 

High  Defense  Council,  186 

Houphouet-Boigny,  Felix,  3;  administra- 
tion of,  xxv,  4,  23-25,  27-30,  143-44; 
appeal  and  influence  of,  4-5,  27-32,  39, 
74,  143,  163,  203;  armed  forces  and 
government  reorganization  by,  203-4; 
Baoule  heritage  of,  55-56,  73;  consoli- 
dation of  power  by,  xxvi,  4-5,  24-25, 
27-31,  76,  143;  as  delegate  to  French 
Constituent  and  National  Assemblies, 
17,  18,  19-20;  foreign  policy  of,  144, 
172-79;  forms  and  leads  RDA,  20;  as 
leader  of  PDCI,  xxv,  19;  as  leader  of 
SAA,  xxv,  73-74;  succession  debate 
over,  xxviii-xxix,  31-32,  164-66 

housing:  private,  88;  public,  88 

human  rights,  147,  206;  limitations  of, 
164 

Hungary,  173 

hydroelectric  plants  {see  also  dams),  95, 
123-24 


He  de  Goree,  8 

IMET  program.  See  United  States 
immigrants:  Burkinabe  as,  xxvi,  64,  175, 
205;  effect  of  influx  of,  26,  29,  61,  64, 
76,  163;  effect  on  population  growth  of, 
46,  48;  French  as,  64;  French  policy  to 
encourage,  14;  from  Mali,  106,  171; 
Mauritanians  as,  205;  from  Middle  East, 
51,  64;  as  migrant  laborers,  26-27,  205 
imports:  of  food,  96,  110,  117,  120;  of 
French  products,  93,  170;  of  technology, 
93 

import  substitution,  xxvii,  93,  95,  121- 

22;  industries  of,  122-23 
income  distribution,  xxiii,  4,  29,  74,  76-77, 

79-80,  86,  107-9;  policy  to  equalize,  93 
Indenie  people,  7,  55 
independence  (1960),  4,  23-24,  93 
indigenat,  14,  17,  157;  elimination  of,  18 
Indochina,  20 

industrial  sector  {see  also  import  substitu- 
tion; manufacturing  sector):  develop- 
ment of,  48;  growth  of,  95-96,  121; 


252 


Index 


import  substitution  industries  in,  93, 
95;  labor  force  employment  in,  105 
inflation,  30 

infrastructure  (see  also  airfields;  airports; 
ports;  railroads;  roads;  waterways):  de- 
velopment of,  xxiii,  93,  94-95,  99;  for 
transport,  128-29,  130 

Institute  of  Higher  Studies  for  National 
Defense  (Institut  des  Hautes  Etudes  de 
Defense  Nationale:  IHEDN),  199 

intelligence  (see  also  High  Committee  on 
Intelligence;  National  Security  Police): 
domestic,  186;  foreign,  174 

interest  groups:  ethnic  associations  as,  74, 
76;  French  population  as,  170-71;  labor 
and  labor  unions  as,  105-7,  168-69; 
military  as,  169-70;  students  and  in- 
tellectuals as,  27,  31-32,  74,  171-72; 
Syrians  and  Lebanese  as,  74,  171 

International  Cocoa  Organization,  112 

International  Criminal  Police  Organiza- 
tion (Interpol),  208 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF): 
austerity  measures  of,  106;  standby 
agreement  loan  of,  136;  structural  ad- 
justment program  of,  xxviii,  94,  136, 
137 

investment:  direct  foreign,  26,  32,  93,  95, 
121;  domestic,  xxiii,  99-100,  103-4 

Iringou  River,  45 

iron  ore  deposits,  128,  130 

irrigation  systems,  111 

Islam  (see  also  brotherhoods  of  Islam): 
adaptations  of,  73;  among  Juula  and 
Malinke  people,  60,  70,  72;  in  Bondou- 
kou,  7;  forms  of,  64;  hadith,  70;  Hamal- 
lism  of,  71;  in  Mali  Empire,  6;  in 
Mande  culture,  60;  Shia  sect  in,  70; 
spread  of  and  resistance  to,  61,  65,  70-1; 
in  Sudan,  5;  Sufism  in,  70;  Sunni  sect 
of,  70;  Wahabist  puritanism  of,  70-71 

Israel,  144;  relations  with,  177,  178-79, 
202 

Italians  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  213 

Ity  Mining  Company  (Societe  Miniere 

d'lty:  SMI),  128 
Ivoirian  Air  Force  (Force  Aerienne  de 

Cote  d'lvoire:  FACI)  (see  also  air  force), 

188,  189,  190-91,  196-97 
Ivoirian   Air   Transport   and  Liaison 

(Groupement  Aerien  de  Transport  et 

de  Liaison:  GATL),  133,  190 
Ivoirian  Bank  for  Construction  and  Public 


Works  (Banque  Ivoirienne  de  Construc- 
tion et  de  Travaux  Publics:  BICT),  103 

Ivoirianization  (see  also  French  in  Cote 
d'lvoire;  immigrants;  labor  force; 
population),  26,  105-6,  166-67,  168 

Ivoirian  Maritime  Navigation  Company 
(Societe  Ivoirienne  de  Navigation  Mar- 
itime: SIVOMAR),  131-32 

Ivoirian  Maritime  Transport  Company 
(Societe  Ivoirienne  de  Transport  Mari- 
time: SITRAM),  98,  131 

Ivoirian  Mining  Company  (Societe  pour 
le  Developpement  Minier  de  Cote 
d'lvoire:  SODEMI),  98,  128 

Ivoirian  Navy  (Marine  Nationale), 
183-84,  189,  190,  200 

Ivoirian  People's  Front  (Front  Populaire 
Ivoirien:  FPI),  172 

Ivoirian  Refining  Company  (Societe 
Ivoirienne  de  Raffinage:  SIR),  127 

Ivoirian  Textile  Development  Company 
(Compagnie  Ivoirienne  de  Developpe- 
ment des  Textiles:  CIDT),  115 


Jacquinot  Decree  (1951),  78 
Jaman  kingdom,  7 
Japan,  197,  200 

judicial  branch  of  government  (see  also 
court  system;  Supreme  Court),  146, 
151-53 

Judicial  Section  (Supreme  Court)  (see  also 

courts  of  appeal),  152 
justices  of  the  peace,  151 
justice  system:  criminal,  210-13;  military, 

193 

Juula  people,  xxvi,  6,  7,  50,  59-61;  Islam 
among,  70 


Kan  River,  45 
Keita,  Balla,  158 
kinship,  51 

Koffi,  Leon  Konan,  204,  207 

Komonos  Hills,  43 

Kone,  Gaston  Ouassenan,  207 

Kong  (city),  59,  60 

Kong  Empire,  6,  7 

Kongo  River,  45 

Korhogo,  151,  190 

Korea,  North,  173 

Kossou  Dam,  121,  124 


253 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


Kossou  reservoir/lake,  45,  124 
Koulango  people,  61 
Krou  language,  56 

Krou  people  (see  also  Bete  people),  48,  49, 
64;  culture  and  society  of,  56-58; 
religions  of,  68 

Kwa  language,  49,  50-51,  56-57 


Labor  Code  (1952),  108 

labor  force  (see  also  forced  labor;  wages): 
educational  level  of,  94-95;  effect  of  im- 
migrant influx  on,  26,  29,  48,  163; 
French  workers  in,  93,  105-6,  166-67, 
170;  Ivoirianization  of,  105-6,  166-67, 
168;  mobility  in,  107;  proportion  of 
population  in,  105;  social  status  of  em- 
ployment in,  77;  unemployment  and 
underemployment  in,  26,  29,  108-9; 
wages  and  earnings  of,  107-9;  women 
in,  105;  work  regulations  for,  108 

labor  unions:  government  control  of,  108, 
168-69;  membership  in  and  activities 
of,  168-69;  for  teachers,  33,  85,  168 

Lagoon  cultures,  49,  56,  72 

lagoon  region  (zone  lagunaire),  40,  56 

lakes,  45 

land  tenure  and  use,  110-11 

languages:  Agni,  51;  Arabic,  51;  Atlan- 
tic, 50;  Baoule,  51;  English,  51;  Ewe, 
51;  Fanti,  51;  Fon,  51;  French  as  offi- 
cial, 50-51,  145;  Gourounsi,  51;  Krou, 
56;  Kwa,  49,  50-51,  56-57;  Mande, 
50-51;  Mande-kan,  59;  Mossi,  51; 
Niger-Congo,  49,  50;  Senoufo,  51; 
Voltaic  (Gur),  50;  Wolof,  51 

Lebanese  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  xxvi,  28,  74, 
163,  171,  213 

Lebanon,  51,  64 

legislative  branch  of  government  (see  also 
National  Assembly),  146,  148-49 

Leraba  River,  45 

Liberia,  10,  40,  45,  173,  175 

Libya,  70,  174-75,  177 

lineage  organization  in  East  Atiantic  cul- 
tures, 53-55;  importance  in  Ivoirian 
religions  of,  65-66;  in  Lagoon  cultures, 
56;  in  Mande  society,  59;  patrilineage 
and  matrilineage,  51-53;  in  religion, 
65-66;  in  Voltaic  cultures,  61;  in  West 
Atlantic  culture,  57-58 

literacy,  81,  160 

livestock,  120 


Loan  Guaranty  Fund  (Council  of  the  En- 
tente), 173 
Lobi  people,  60,  61,  69 
Lobo  River,  45 
loi  cadre,  22 
Loi-Programme,  99 
London  Club,  xxviii,  97,  136,  137 

Madagascar,  20,  185 

maize  production,  118 

Mali,  10,  13,  50;  border  with,  40;  im- 
migrants from,  106,  171;  independence 
of,  23;  Malinke  Empire  of,  59;  relations 
with,  173,  175 

Mali  Empire,  5,  6 

Mali  Federation,  23,  174 

Malinke  Empire,  59 

Malinke  people,  xxvi,  50,  59-60;  Islam 
among,  70 

Man,  43 

Mandel  Decree  (1939),  78 

Mande  people  (see  also  Bambara  people; 
Juula  people;  Malinke  people),  47,  50; 
religions  of,  68-69 

Mande  Region,  48-49,  58-60 

manganese  mining,  128 

manioc  cultivation.  See  cassava 

manufacturing  sector  (see  also  import  sub- 
stitution), 121-23 

marabout,  70-71 

Marahoue  River.  See  Bandama  Rouge 

River 
marriage,  78 
Marxism,  16 

Maternal  Health  Care  (MHC)  centers,  87 
Mauritania,  13 

M'Bahia  Ble,  Kouadio,  187,  204 
Mbato  people,  56 
media,  160 
Mekyibo  people,  56 
merchant  marine  fleet,  131-32,  190 
Merchant  Marine  Training  Academy, 
197 

Methodists,  72 

middle  class.  See  social  structure 

migration  (see  also  immigration):  to  Abi- 
djan and  the  south,  26,  74;  role  of  eth- 
nic associations  in,  74,  76;  from  savanna 
to  forest  region,  47-48 

Military  Academy  (Ecole  des  Forces  Ar- 
mees:  EFA),  193,  196 

military  assistance,  176,  183,  197-200 


254 


Index 


military  base  (France),  170 

military  exercises,  199 

Military  Fire  Brigade,  189 

military  organization,  25,  186-89 

Military  Preparatory  Technical  Academy 
(Ecole  Militaire  Preparatoire  Tech- 
nique: EMPT),  190,  193,  196 

military  ranks,  193 

military  regions,  189-90 

military  service,  192 

military  training,  193,  196-97;  supplied 
by  France,  198;  in  United  States,  200 

minerals,  127-28 

mining  industry,  127-28 

Ministry  of  Agriculture,  202 

Ministry  of  Cooperation  (France),  106 

Ministry  of  Defense,  187,  201,  203 

Ministry  of  Defense  and  Maritime  Af- 
fairs, 187-88,  189,  190,  197,  203,  206 

Ministry  of  Defense  (France),  199 

Ministry  of  Finance,  98-99 

Ministry  of  Industry,  98 

Ministry  of  Interior,  206-7 

Ministry  of  Internal  Security,  185,  206-7, 
208 

Ministry  of  Justice,  153,  210 

Ministry  of  Maritime  Affairs,  187,  190, 
197,  201 

Ministry  of  Mining,  98 

Ministry  of  National  Education  and 
Scientific  Research,  85,  201 

Ministry  of  Overseas  Departments  and 
Territories  (France),  18 

Ministry  of  Planning,  98-99 

Ministry  of  Public  Health  and  Popula- 
tion, 88 

Ministry  of  Rural  Development,  203 

Ministry  of  Trade,  98 

Ministry  of  Women's  Affairs  (Ministere 

de  la  Condition  Feminine),  79 
missionaries:  Catholic,  14,  72;  Christian, 

64;  from  France,  3 
Morocco,  185 
Moronou  kingdom,  55 
mortality  rates,  46-47,  86-87 
Mossi  people  {see  also  Burkinabe  people), 

xxvi,  17,  19;  culture  of,  60;  as  workers 

in  Cote  dTvoire,  26-27 
Mt.  Bowe  de  Kiendi,  44 
Mt.  Nimba,  43 
Mt.  Yeleve,  44 
mountains,  40,  43 

Movement   of  Ivoirian  Primary  and 


Secondary  School  Students  (Mouve- 
ment  des  Etudiants  et  Eleves  de  Cote 
dTvoire:  MEECI),  27,  172 
Muhammad  (prophet),  69-70 
municipalities,  autonomous.  See  commu- 
nities, autonomous 

Nangui  (Nengue),  60 

National  Agricultural  Development  Bank 
(Banque  Nationale  pour  le  Developpe- 
ment  Agricole:  BNEC),  34,  103,  104 

National  Amortization  Fund  (Caisse  Au- 
tonome  d'Amortissement:  CAA),  100 
National  Archives,  207 

National  Assembly  (Assemblee  Nation- 
ale),  146,  147-49;  Committee  for  Eco- 
nomic and  Financial  Affairs,  149; 
Committee  for  General  and  Institu- 
tional Affairs,  149;  Committee  for  So- 
cial and  Cultural  Affairs,  149;  open 
election  for,  167;  powers  related  to  mili- 
tary of,  186 

National  Commission  on  Ivoirianization, 
105 

National  Gendarmerie  (Gendarmerie  Na- 
tionale), 166,  186,  187,  189,  200;  for 
internal  security,  209 

nationalism:  of  Cote  dTvoire,  16,  49,  166; 
of  French  West  Africa,  22 

National  Police  Academy  (Ecole  Nation- 
ale  de  Police),  208-9 

National  Printing  Office,  207 

National  Savings  and  Loan  Bank  (Ban- 
que Nationale  d'Epargne  et  de  Credit: 
BNDA),  103,  104 

National  Security  Police  (Surete  Nation- 
ale), 185,  206-8;  Counterespionage 
Directorate,  208;  Criminal  Investigation 
Directorate,  208;  Intelligence  Direc- 
torate, 208;  Public  Security  Directorate, 
208 

National  Service  Center,  202 

National  Service  (Service  Civique),  187, 
192,  201-3 

National  Telecommunications  Bureau 
(Office  National  de  Telecommunica- 
tions: ONT),  133-34 

National  Union  of  Secondary  School 
Teachers  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Syndicat  Na- 
tional des  Enseignants  du  Secondaire  de 
Cote  dTvorie:  SYNESCI):  as  critics  of 
education  policy,  85;  organizational 


255 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


independence  of,    168;   strikes  and 

demonstrations  by,  33,  204 
National  University  of  Cote  d'lvoire,  27, 

33,  51,  79,  84,  86,  172,  178 
National  Veterans  Administration  Office, 

203 

natural  gas,  127 

natural  resources.  See  electricity  produc- 
tion; forest  region;  minerals;  natural 
gas;  oil  industry;  timber  industry 

Naval  Academy  at  Abidjan,  197 

navy.  See  Ivoirian  Navy  (Marine  Na- 
tionale) 

N'Daw,  Oumar,  207,  209 

Netherlands,  200 

news  media,  147 

Neyo  people,  58 

Niabe,  Gnagbe,  28-29 

Niaboua  people,  58 

Niamkey,  Hyacinthe  Adiko,  168 

Niger:  aid  to  and  relations  with,  173,  176; 
in  Entente,  23;  as  French  West  African 
colony,  13;  military  accord  (1961),  197 

Niger-Congo  language  family  {see  also 
Krou  language;  Kwa  language;  lan- 
guages), 49,  50,  57 

Nigeria,  176 

Nigerian  Civil  War  (1966-70),  176 
Niger  River,  8 
Nimba  Mountains,  45 
Nkrumah,  Kwame,  174,  175 
Nzima  people,  56 
Nzi  River,  45 
Nzo  River,  45 

OAU.  See  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU) 

Office  for  the  Promotion  of  Ivoirian  Enter- 
prise (Office  de  Promotion  de  1' Enter- 
prise Ivoirienne:  OPEI),  105 

officer  corps,  169,  192-93 

oil  industry  {see  also  natural  gas),  xxvii, 
94,  125-27 

oil  price  shock,  95,  96,  125-27 

ONT.  See  National  Telecommunications 
Bureau  (Office  National  de  Telecom- 
munications: ONT) 

Opadjele,  Gnabe.  See  Niabe,  Gnagbe 

Ordinary  Budget  (Budget  Ordinaire), 
100-102 

Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU), 

174,  178 
Ory,  Felix,  187 


palm  oil  industry,  115 

pan-Africanism,  175,  184 

parastatals:  agricultural  development  bank 

as,  104;  increase  in  number  of,  99-100; 

proposed  privatization  of,  97-98 
Paris  Club,  xxviii,  97,  136-38 
PDCI.  See  Democratic  Party  of  Cote 

d'lvoire  (Parti  Democratique  de  Cote 

d'lvoire:  PDCI) 
penal  code,  210 

People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Korea. 

See  Korea,  North 
People's  Republic  of  China.  See  China 
PETROCI.  See  Petroleum  Operations 

Company  of  Cote  d'lvoire  (Petrole  de 

Cote  d'lvoire:  PETROCI) 
petroleum  industry.  See  oil  industry 
Petroleum  Operations  Company  of  Cote 

d'lvoire  (Petrole  de  Cote  d'lvoire: 

PETROCI),  98,  125 
Phillips  Petroleum  Company,  125,  127 
pineapple  industry,  117 
pipeline,  gas,  127 
plantain  production,  118,  120 
planter  class,  3-4,  19,  73,  161 
plateau,  40,  43 
Poland,  173 

police  forces  {see  also  International  Crimi- 
nal Police  Organization  (Interpol)), 
207-8 

Police  Forces  (Ministry  of  Internal  Secu- 
rity), 208 

political  parties  (pre-independence),  19 

political  system:  constitutional  multiparty 
fiat  for,  146;  de  facto  single-party,  4, 
163-64;  elite  in,  xxvi,  4,  73,  157, 
160-62,  164,  167;  influence  of  France 
on,  4;  instability  in,  34-35;  opposition 
to,  31-32,  160,  162-64,  166-68;  orien- 
tation toward,  160;  patronage  in,  76- 
77,  78;  role  of  military  in,  30,  203-4; 
stability  of,  27,  203 

population  {see  also  immigrants;  migra- 
tion; mortality  rates;  resettlements): 
concentrations  of,  47-48;  French  peo- 
ple in,  93,  105-6,  166-67,  170;  growth 
of,  46;  volume  of  foreign,  61 

poro  societies,  61 

Port  Bouet,  132,  170,  191 

ports,  129,  130,  131 

Portugese  explorers,  7 

postal  service,  134 

poverty,  89 


256 


Index 


precipitation,  45-46,  111,  124 
prefect  (prefet),  25,  153-54 
prefectures.  See  administrative  divisions 
president,  147-48,  149,  151-52;  powers 

related  to  military  of,  186 
Presidential  Guard  and  Militia  (Garde 

Presidentielle  et  Milice:  GPM),  188, 

189,  192 

price  mechanism:  in  domestic  economy, 
xxvii,  99,  137,  138,  161;  of  Interna- 
tional Cocoa  Organization,  112 

prison  system,  210-11 

privatization  (see  also  parastatals,  proposed 
privitization  of),  97-98 

Progressive  Villages,  202 

property  ownership.  See  land  tenure 

Protestant  religions,  72 

Protocol  Relating  to  the  Status  of  Refu- 
gees (1967),  206 

Public  Works  Authority  (Direction  et  Con- 
trole  des  Grands  Travaux:  DCGTX), 
166 

purges,  political,  25 

Qadhafi,  Muammar  al,  174,  177 
Qadiriya  brotherhood,  70 
Quran  (Islam),  70 

radar  network,  183 
railroads,  129 

RAN.  See  Abidjan-Niger  Railroad  (Regie 
du  Chemin  de  Fer  Abidjan-Niger: 
RAN) 

Rawlings,  Jerry,  174-75 
rebellion  in  French  colonies,  20 
recession,  136 

Regional  Maritime  Instruction  Center, 
197 

religions  (see  also  Harrism;  Protestant 
religions;  Roman  Catholicism):  local 
and  African,  64-69;  of  the  North,  68- 
69;  of  the  South,  66,  68;  syncretic,  73 

religious  tolerance,  65 

reservoirs,  45 

resettlements,  47 

rice  production,  118 

river  systems,  40,  43,  44-45 

roads,  129,  130-31 

Roman  Catholicism:  educational  system 
established  by,  14;  prevalence  of,  72 
Romania,  173 


rubber  industry,  115 
rural  areas,  29 

SAA.  See  African  Agricultural  Union 

(Syndicat  Agricole  Africain:  SAA) 
Sahara,  Western,  1177 
Sahara  Desert,  43 
Saint  Louis,  8 
Sankara,  Thomas,  174-75 
San-Pedro  (port),  130,  131,  192 
Sanwi  people,  7,  28,  55 
Sassandra,  192 

Sassandra  River,  40,  43,  44-45,  111 

savanna  region,  xxiii,  40,  43-44,  110, 
120;  crops  of,  115,  120;  sugar  indus- 
try in,  116 

schools:  Quranic,  51,  81;  Roman  Catho- 
lic, 72,  81 

security:  internal,  185,  206-10,  212-13; 
international,  183-84 

Sekou  Toure,  Ahmed,  174,  175 

Senegal,  8;  as  French  West  African  col- 
ony, 13;  governor  general  of,  13;  in- 
dependence of,  23;  in  Mali  Federation, 
23;  relations  with,  173-74 

Senegalese  Irregulars  (Tirailleurs  Sene- 
galais),  184-85 

Senegal  River,  8 

Seniambele  people.  See  Senoufo  people 
Senoufo  people,  xxvi,  6,  50;  culture  of, 

60-61;  representation  in  army  of,  166 
Senoussiya  brotherhood,  70 
service  sector,  95;  labor  force  employment 

in,  105 
Shia  sect.  See  Islam 
Shultz,  George,  177 
Siena  people.  See  Senoufo  people 
Sikasso  Plateau,  45 

SIR.  See  Ivoirian  Refining  Company  (So- 
ciete  Ivoirienne  de  Raffinage:  SIR) 

SITRAM.  See  Ivoirian  Maritime  Trans- 
port Company  (Societe  Ivoirienne  de 
Transport  Maritime:  SITRAM) 

Slavery  Convention  (1926),  206 

slave  trade,  7-8 

social  services,  77,  88 

social  structure,  4-5;  assimilation  and  as- 
sociation policies  for,  12,  55;  civil  ser- 
vants in,  73,  77;  development  of,  39-40; 
effect  of  change  in,  160-63;  elite  in,  12, 
16,  23,  39,  73,  76-78;  lack  of  develop- 
ment of,  79-80;  lineage  organization  in, 


257 


Cote  d'lvoire:  A  Country  Study 


51-55,  57-59,  61,  65-66;  middle  class 
in,  77-78;  women  in,  78-79 
social  unrest,  xxviii,  xxx,  25-27,  31-35, 
162,  163 

SODEMI.  See  Ivoirian  Mining  Company 
(Societe  pour  le  Developpement  Minier 
de  Cote  d'lvoire:  SODEMI) 

solar  power,  125 

Solidarity  Fund  (Council  of  the  Entente). 

See  Loan  Guaranty  Fund  (Council  of 

the  Entente) 
Solomougou  River,  45 
Songhai  (vassal  state),  5 
Soninke  Empire,  59 
South  Africa,  144,  176 
South  African  Airways,  176 
Soviet  Union,  144;  relations  with  172-73, 

177,  178,  198 
Special  Investment  and  Capital  Equip- 
ment Budget  (Budget  Special  d'lnves- 

tissement  et  d'Equipement:  BSIE), 

100-2,  131 
spending,  public,  xxiii,  99-100,  137; 

budgets  for,  100-102;  for  defense,  201; 

for  education,  81,  85-86;  for  public 

health  care,  87 
standard  of  living,  40 
State  Security  Court  as  superior  court, 

152,  153 

stock  exchange.  See  Abidjan  Stock  Ex- 
change (Bourse  de  Valeurs  d' Abidjan) 

strikes:  by  PDCI,  20;  by  public  em- 
ployees, 34;  by  school  teachers'  union, 
33;  by  students,  27,  32-33,  166;  wild- 
cat, 169 

student  opposition,  27,  32-33,  171-2 
succession  (see  also  Houphouet-Boigny, 

succession  debate  over),  31-32,  164-66, 

169 
Sudan,  5 

Sudan,  French  (see  also  Mali):  as  French 
West  African  colony,  13;  in  Mali  Fed- 
eration, 23 

Sudanic  empires,  5 

Sufism.  See  Islam 

Sugar  Development  Company  (Societe 
de  Developpement  Sucrier:  SODE- 
SUCRE),  99,  116 

sugar  industry,  115-16 

sunna  (Islam),  70 

Sunni  sect.  See  Islam 

Superior  Council  of  Magistrates,  151 

Superior  Council  of  the  Judiciary,  153 


superior  courts,   152;  High  Court  of 

Justice  as,  152,  153 
Supreme  Court  (see  also  court  system), 

146,  193;  Judicial  Section  of,  152;  as 

superior  court,  152 
Sweden,  200 
Switzerland,  200 
Syria,  51 

Syrians  in  Cote  d'lvoire,  171 

Taabo  (reservoir/lake),  45 
Tagba  Lagoon,  45 
teachers,  84-85 

technical  assistance  (see  also  cooperants),  198 
technology  imports,  93 
telecommunications,  133-34 
telephone  circuits,  lines,  and  cable,  133 
Tenneco,  126 
Territorial  Assembly,  19 
thermal  energy  facilities,  123-25 
Thierry-Lebbe,  Alexis,  207 
Tidjaniya  brotherhood,  70 
Tiemba  River,  45 

timber  industry  (see  also  deforestation; 

forest  region),  xxvii,  94,  109-10,  113- 

15,  138, 
Timbuctu,  5 
Togo,  49,  173,  174,  175 
Toura  Mountains,  43 
Toure,  Samori,  xxiv,  10,  47,  59,  60,  70 
trade  policy:  of  import  substitution,  93, 

121-23;  protection  levels  of,  97,  122-23 
trade  unions.  See  labor  unions 
trading  partners,  134,  173,  176-78 
treaties  with  France,  170,  176-77 
Treich-Laplene,  Maurice,  xxiv,  10 
Tsetse  fly,  120 

UGTCI.  See  General  Federation  of  Ivoir- 
ian Workers  (Union  Generale  des 
Travailleurs  de  Cote  d'lvoire:  UGTCI) 

UMOA.  See  West  African  Monetary 
Union  (Union  Monetaire  Ouest  Afri- 
caine:  UMOA) 

underemployment.  See  labor  force 

unemployment.  See  labor  force 

Union  of  Burkinabe,  213 

United  Nations:  Children's  Fund 
(UNICEF),  87;  diplomacy  in,  177-79; 
Industrial  Development  Organization 
(UNIDO),  122;  support  for  training 
facilities  by,  197 


258 


Index 


United  States,  177-78,  200;  Arms  Con- 
trol and  Disarmament  Agency 
(ACDA),  200-201;  Federal  Aviation 
Administration  (FAA),  212;  Interna- 
tional Military  Education  and  Train- 
ing (IMET)  program,  200;  relations 
with,  144,  177-8 

university  (National  University  of  Cote 
d'lvoire),  27,  32-33,  51,  79,  84,  86, 
172,  178 

University  of  Abidjan,  84 

Upper  Volta  {see  also  Burkina  Faso),  10, 
17,  26;  in  Entente,  23;  as  French  West 
African  colony,  13-14,  17,  19;  in  Mali 
Federation,  23 

urban  areas:  development  of,  48,  160;  ef- 
fect of  migration  to,  26,  48;  society  of, 
74,  76;  unrest  in,  163 

Verdier,  Arthur,  9 
veterans,  203 

Vichy  government,  xxv,  16,  185 
villages,  xxiii,  154,  155 
"Villages  under  Supervision,"  202 
violence  (1949),  20 

Voltaic  people  {see  also  Mossi  people; 

Senoufo  people),  50;  cultures  of,  60-61 
Voltaic  Region,  48-49 
Volta  River  Basin,  43 
von  Bismarck,  Otto,  9 
Vridi  Canal,  74,  131 
Vridi  thermal  station,  123,  125 

wages,  107-9,  168-69 
Wahabist  puritanism,  See  Islam 
waterways,  74,  129 


Wattara,  Thomas  D'Anquin,  187 
Wattara  clan,  60 

West  African  Economic  Community 
(Communaute  Economique  de  l'Af- 
rique  Occidentale:  CEAO),  121 

West  African  Monetary  Union  (Union 
Monetaire  Ouest  Africaine:  UMOA), 
102 

West  Atlantic  Region,  48-49,  56-59 
WHO.  See  World  Health  Organization 

(WHO) 
wind-powered  pumps,  125 
Wobe  people,  57-58 
women:  in  labor  force,  105;  in  National 

Service,  192,  202;  in  social  structure, 

78-79 
Women's  Corps,  202 
World  Bank:  loans  for  road  construction 

and  improvement,  131;  pressure  from, 

122;  structural  adjustment  programs  of, 

88,  98,  136-38 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  87, 

88;  Special  Program  on  AIDS  (SPA)  of, 

88 

World  War  I,  184-85 
World  War  II,  xxiv-xxv,  4,  30,  185;  im- 
pact of  16-21 


Yace,  Philippe,  xxix,  24,  31-32,  34,  151, 

157,  158,  165 
Yamoussoukro,  25,  65,  183,  192 
yams:  festival  of,  68;  production  of, 

117-18,  120 
Yopougon  prison,  211 

Zaire,  176 


259 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


JJU  OJ 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

1  f,Q 

jjU—  1 0:7 

Australia 

JJU    1 U J 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

JJU    1 oo 

Bulgaria 

JJU     A  J 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Knrpa  Nnrth 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

550-85 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

261 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

262 


PIN:  004241-000 


