area  handbook  series 

Cyprus 

a  country  study 


Cyprus 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Eric  Solsten 
Research  Completed 
January  1991 


On  the  cover:  Cypriot  vase  from  seventh  century  B.C. 


Fourth  Edition,  First  Printing,  1993. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Cyprus  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Eric  Solsten.  —  4th  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294)  (DA 
pam  ;  550-22) 

"Supersedes  the  1980  edition  of  Cyprus:  a  country  study, 
edited  by  Frederica  M.  Bunge." — T.p.  verso. 
"Research  completed  January  1991." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  265-279)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0752-6 

1.  Cyprus.    I.  Solsten,  Eric,  1943-    .  II.  Library  of  Congress. 
Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV.  Series:  DA  pam  ; 


550-22. 
DS54.A3C955  1993 
956.45— dc20 


92-36090 
CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 


DA  Pam  550-22 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D  C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/ Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the  writers 
of  the  1980  edition  of  Cyprus:  A  Country  Study,  edited  by  Frederica 
M.  Bunge.  Portions  of  their  work  were  incorporated  into  this 
volume. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  United  States 
government  agencies  and  international,  diplomatic,  and  private 
institutions  who  gave  of  their  time,  research  materials,  expertise, 
and  photographs  in  the  production  of  this  book.  Special  thanks  are 
owed  to  the  Embassy  of  Cyprus  and  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Office, 
both  in  Washington,  D.C.  Thanks  are  also  due  to  Ralph  K. 
Benesch,  who  oversees  the  area  handbook  program  for  the  Depart- 
ment of  the  Army.  The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  members  of  the 
Federal  Research  Division  staff  who  contributed  directly  to  the 
preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  people  include  Sandra  W. 
Meditz,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  and  Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  who  managed  editing  and 
book  production. 

Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text  were  editorial  assistants  Bar- 
bara Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson;  Duncan  M.  Brown,  who  edited 
chapters;  Cissie  Coy,  who  performed  the  prepublication  editorial  re- 
view; and  Joan  C.  Cook,  who  compiled  the  index.  Linda  Peterson 
and  Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the  Library  of  Congress  Composing  Unit 
prepared  the  camera-ready  copy  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy 
Pixley. 

Graphics  were  prepared  by  David  P.  Cabitto,  who  also  designed 
the  volume's  cover.  Gail  Oring  designed  the  illustrations  on  each 
chapter's  title  page.  David  P.  Cabitto,  Harriet  R.  Blood,  and  the 
firm  of  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara  prepared  the  maps  from  Tim  Mer- 
rill's drafts. 


v 


Contents 


Page 


Foreword    iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface    xi 

Country  Profile     xiii 

Introduction      xxi 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Eugene  K.  Keefe  and  Eric  Solsten 

THE  ANCIENT  PERIOD    5 

THE  MEDIEVAL  PERIOD   10 

Byzantine  Rule    10 

The  Lusignan  and  Venetian  Eras    13 

OTTOMAN  RULE    17 

BRITISH  RULE   19 

British  Annexation   21 

World  War  II  and  Postwar  Nationalism    23 

The  Emergency    30 

THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS   32 

Intercommunal  Violence    35 

Political  Developments  after  the  Crisis  of  1967    37 

The  Greek  Coup  and  the  Turkish  Invasion    41 

Developments  since  1974    43 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  47 

Eleni  Meleagrou  and  Birol  Yesilada 

REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS    49 

Geography   50 

Ethnicity    54 

Population    58 

Urbanization  and  Occupational  Change    62 

Class  Structure    64 

Family  and  Marriage    65 

Status  of  Women   68 

Religion   70 

Education    72 

Health  and  Welfare   75 


vii 


"THE  TURKISH  REPUBLIC  OF 

NORTHERN  CYPRUS"    82 

Population    82 

Ethnicity    85 

Social  Structure   88 

Marriage  and  Family    90 

Religion   93 

Education    99 

Health  and  Welfare   102 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy   105 

Alex  J.  Kondonassis  and  Biro  I  Yesilada 

REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS    108 

Development  of  the  Economy  since 

Independence   110 

The  Government  Sector    113 

Employment  and  Labor  Relations   115 

Primary  Sector    116 

Secondary  Sector   125 

Tertiary  Sector    132 

Foreign  Trade  and  the  Balance  of  Payments   138 

"TURKISH  REPUBLIC  OF  NORTHERN  CYPRUS"   141 

The  State  and  Economic  Development    142 

The  Work  Force  and  Labor  Unions    145 

Primary  Sector    146 

Secondary  Sector   152 

Tertiary  Sector    154 

Foreign  Trade    157 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    161 

Ellen  Laipson 

BACKGROUND   165 

1960  Constitution    165 

1963  Constitutional  Breakdown   167 

1964-74  Situation:  Separate  Communal  Life    170 

The  1974  Crisis  and  Division  of  the  Island   171 

SEARCH  FOR  A  NEW  POLITICAL  FORMULA   172 

Milestones  in  the  United  Nations  Settlement 

Process   174 

Prospects  for  Creation  of  a  Federal  Republic 

of  Cyprus   184 

POLITICS  IN  THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS    184 

Political  Institutions   184 


vni 


Political  Parties   186 

Media    188 

Political  Dynamics   188 

Political  Culture  in  the  Vassiliou  Era    190 

POLITICS  IN  THE  "TURKISH  REPUBLIC  OF 

NORTHERN  CYPRUS"    192 

Major  Political  Institutions  in  the  "TRNC"    193 

Political  Parties    195 

Media    197 

Rauf  Denkta§  and  Turkish  Cypriot  Politics   197 

FOREIGN  POLICY    199 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus    200 

The  "TRNC"   207 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    211 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

THE  CYPRUS  CONFLICT   214 

The  Struggle  for  Independence    214 

Intercommunal  Violence,  1963-67    215 

Conflict  Within  the  Greek  Cypriot 

Community,  1967-74    217 

The  Turkish  Military  Intervention, 

July- August  1974    219 

De  Facto  Partition,  1974-    220 

PROBLEMS  OF  INTERNAL  SECURITY    221 

ARMED  FORCES    224 

Forces  in  the  Government-Controlled  Area   225 

Forces  in  the  Turkish- Administered  Area    231 

British  Forces  on  Cyprus   233 

United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus    234 

POLICE    237 

Organization  of  the  Greek  Cypriot 

Police   237 

Turkish  Cypriot  Police  Organization   238 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   240 

Incidence  of  Crime    240 

The  Criminal  Justice  System   241 

Appendix.  Tables   245 

Bibliography    265 

Glossary    28 1 

Index   285 


ix 


List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions,  1991    xx 

2  Ancient  and  Medieval  Sites    6 

3  Topography  and  Drainage   ,   52 

4  Ethnic  Distribution  of  the  Population,  1960,  1964, 

and  1990    56 

5  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Population  by  Age  and  Sex, 

1988    60 

6  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Population 

by  Age  and  Sex,  1989    86 

7  Economic  Activity,  1990    118 

8  Minerals,  1990    126 

9  Transportation  System,  1990    136 

10    Nicosia  and  the  Green  Line    220 


x 


Preface 


This  edition  of  Cyprus:  A  Country  Study  replaces  the  previous  edi- 
tion published  in  1980.  Like  its  predecessor,  the  present  book 
attempts  to  treat  in  a  compact  and  objective  manner  the  dominant 
historical,  social,  economic,  political,  and  national  security  aspects 
of  contemporary  Cyprus.  Sources  of  information  included  scholarly 
books,  journals,  and  monographs;  official  reports  and  documents 
of  governments  and  international  organizations;  and  foreign  and 
domestic  newspapers  and  periodicals.  Researchers  of  Cypriot  af- 
fairs face  both  feast  and  famine.  There  is  much  information  about 
the  origins  and  development  of  the  island's  complex  intercommunal 
problem,  some  of  it  of  a  high  quality.  But  readers  curious  about 
less  vital  political  issues,  or  searching  for  economic  or  social  data, 
often  will  find  information  sparse  or  of  dubious  validity. 

Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  com- 
ments on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources  for  further  reading 
appear  at  the  conclusion  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given 
in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those 
who  are  unfamiliar  with  the  metric  system  (see  table  1 ,  Appendix). 

The  contemporary  place-names  used  in  this  study  are  those  ap- 
proved by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic  Names,  as  set 
forth  in  the  official  gazetteer  published  in  1953.  The  Turkish  name 
of  towns  or  geographic  formations  located  in  the  Turkish  Cypriot- 
administered  area  is  provided  in  parentheses  after  the  place-name's 
first  appearance  in  a  chapter.  A  list  of  place-names  so  identified 
is  provided  (see  table  2,  Appendix).  Greek  Cypriot  names  are  trans- 
literated as  they  commonly  appear  in  English-language  publica- 
tions. Because  the  United  States  government  does  not  recognize 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  state  created  in  November  1983,  its  name, 
the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC"),  is  placed 
within  quotation  marks. 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  Janu- 
ary 1991.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been 
updated.  The  introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have 
occurred  since  completion  of  research;  the  Country  Profile  includes 
updated  information  as  available;  and  the  Bibliography  lists  re- 
cently published  sources  thought  to  be  particularly  helpful  to  the 
reader. 


XI 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Cyprus. 

Short  Form:  Cyprus. 

Term  for  Nationals:  Cypriot(s). 

Political  Status:  Former  British  colony.  Achieved  independence 
August  1960.  Since  mid- 1974,  northern  37  percent  of  island  un- 
der separate  Turkish  Cypriot  administration.  "Turkish  Repub- 
lic of  Northern  Cyprus"  ["TRNC"],  proclaimed  unilaterally 

NOTE:  The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


xiii 


in  November  1983,  not  recognized  internationally  except  by  Tur- 
key as  of  early  1992. 

Geography 

Size:  Third  largest  island  in  Mediterranean,  after  Sicily  and 
Sardinia.  9,251  square  kilometers,  of  which  1,733  square  kilome- 
ters forested.  Length,  225  kilometers;  maximum  breadth,  96.5 
kilometers.  Situated  in  eastern  Mediterranean,  about  386  kilome- 
ters north  of  Egypt,  97  kilometers  west  of  Syria,  and  64  kilometers 
south  of  Turkey. 

Topography:  Principal  topographic  features  Troodos  Mountains: 
dry  limestone  hills  including  Kyrenia  Range;  a  broad  inland 
plain — the  Mesaoria;  and  narrow  coasdands.  Highest  peak  of  Troo- 
dos Mountains,  Mount  Olympus,  rises  to  1,952  meters.  Winter 
rivers  starting  in  the  Troodos  flow  rapidly  in  all  directions.  Two 
large  salt  lakes;  many  springs  along  the  sides  of  Troodos  Moun- 
tains and  Kyrenia  Range. 

Climate:  Mediterranean,  with  cycle  of  hot,  dry  summers  from  June 
to  September,  rainy  winters  from  November  to  March,  and  brief 
spring  and  fall  seasons  between.  Substantial  differences,  both  daily 
and  seasonally,  in  temperatures  of  coastal  and  inland  areas. 

Society 

Population:  Republic  of  Cyprus  estimate  of  575,000  in  the 
government-controlled  area  at  the  end  of  1990.  Turkish  Cypriots 
estimate  their  number  at  about  171,000  at  mid- 1990,  about  40,000 
higher  than  estimates  by  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Difference  may 
stem  in  part  from  the  tens  of  thousands  of  Turks  who  settled  on 
the  island  after  1974.  No  de  facto  census  since  1960. 

Languages:  Three  principal  languages:  Greek,  Turkish,  and  En- 
glish. Knowledge  and  use  of  Greek  and  Turkish  as  second  language, 
never  common,  declining  further  owing  to  de  facto  partition  of  the 
island;  English  the  standard  second  language  for  Cypriots  of  both 
ethnic  communities. 

Religion:  Virtually  all  Greek  Cypriots  Greek  Orthodox  Christians, 
adherents  of  the  autocephalous  Church  of  Cyprus,  headed  by  a 
synod  composed  of  bishops  and  an  elected  archbishop.  The  Arme- 
nian Apostolic  Church — another  of  the  eastern  Christian  religions 
that  does  not  recognize  the  authority  of  the  pope  in  Rome — has 
minor  following.  Also  small  numbers  of  members  of  churches  in 
full  communion  with  Rome — Maronites  and  Roman  Catholics. 


xiv 


Turkish  Cypriots  are  Muslims  and  form  the  second  largest  reli- 
gious group. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Republic  of  Cyprus  level  of  education 
high;  literacy  rate  of  99  percent;  illiteracy  confined  to  the  old.  Free 
and  compulsory  education  offered  at  preprimary,  primary,  and  at 
secondary  levels  in  academic  and  technical/vocational  high  schools. 
Higher  education  available  at  specialized  schools  and  at  one  univer- 
sity opened  in  early  1990s.  Many  Greek  Cypriots  studied  at  for- 
eign universities. 

[Turkish  Cypriots  established  parallel  system  and  also  had  high 
literacy  rate.  Although  several  universities  in  operation  by  1990, 
some  Turkish  Cypriots  received  higher  education  abroad.] 

Health:  Republic  of  Cyprus  health  care  provided  both  through 
public  heath  service  administered  by  Ministry  of  Health  and  pri- 
vate sector.  Lower-income  families  entitled  to  free  medical  care 
and  middle-income  families  to  care  at  reduced  rates.  In  1990  six 
general  hospitals  and  twenty-one  rural  health  centers.  Life  expec- 
tancy 73.9  years  for  males  and  77.8  years  for  females  in  1990. 

[Turkish  Cypriots  had  extensive  health  care  system  administered 
by  Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Welfare.  In  late  1980s,  five  state 
and  four  private  hospitals  and  ten  public  health  centers  in  addi- 
tion to  many  clinics.  Life  expectancy  70  years  for  males  and  72 
years  for  females  in  1979.] 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$5.3  billion  in  1990;  per  capita 
gross  national  product  (GNP)  US$7,200  in  1988.  GDP  grew  at 
an  average  annual  rate  of  8.4  percent  between  1976  and  1986,  with 
slight  downturn  in  late  1980s. 

[Turkish  Cypriot  GNP:  US$425.4  million  in  1989;  per  capita 
income  US$2513.  GDP  grew  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  6.4  per- 
cent between  1977  and  1988;  growth  rate  in  1989  was  7.1  percent.] 

Agriculture:  Made  up  7.7  percent  of  GDP  in  1988  and  accounted 
for  15.8  percent  of  employment  in  1987.  Important  irrigation 
projects  and  government  subsidies  guaranteed  continued  strength 
of  sector.  Crops  accounted  for  most  agricultural  production; 
livestock  about  one-fifth;  fishing  and  forestry  negligible.  Agricul- 
tural exports  important;  potatoes  accounted  for  10  percent  of  ex- 
port earnings  in  some  years;  citrus  and  wine  exports  also 
noteworthy.  Gradually  evolving  free-market  trade  with  European 
Economic  Community  in  1990s  could  threaten  branches  of  Cypriot 
agriculture. 


xv 


[Turkish  Cypriot  agriculture  accounted  for  about  9  percent  of 
GDP  in  1990  and  provided  employment  for  about  30  percent  of 
work  force.  Citrus  fruits  most  important  export  product.  Short- 
age of  year-round  water  an  obstacle  to  sector's  growth.] 

Manufacturing:  Accounted  for  about  16  percent  of  GDP  and  20 
percent  of  employment  in  late  1980s.  Wide  variety  of  light  manufac- 
turing, with  clothing  and  foods  the  most  important  products.  Cloth- 
ing most  important  export.  Dismantling  of  tariff  protection  and 
low  Third  World  wages  would  challenge  subsector  in  1990s. 

[Turkish  Cypriot  manufacturing  accounted  for  about  12  percent 
of  GDP  and  11  percent  of  employment  in  1989.  Almost  entirely 
light  industry,  with  clothing  and  textiles  most  important  products. 
Clothing  accounted  for  30  percent  of  exports  in  late  1980s.] 

Services:  Accounted  for  over  half  of  GDP  at  end  of  1980s.  Tourism 
most  important  subsector,  with  over  a  million  foreign  visitors  each 
year.  Financial  and  business  services  also  important. 

[Turkish  Cypriot  service  sector  accounted  for  well  over  half  of 
GDP  and  nearly  half  of  employment  at  end  of  1980s.  Tourism  most 
dynamic  element,  with  about  300,000  foreign  visitors  by  1990.] 

Balance  of  Payments:  Persistent  large  negative  trade  balance. 
Large  tourism  earnings  and  positive  capital  account  balances  gener- 
ally yielded  positive  balance  of  payments. 

[Large  negative  Turkish  Cypriot  trade  balance  offset  by  earn- 
ings from  tourism  and  import  license  fees.] 

Exchange  Rate:  Average  exchange  rate  in  1990,  Cyprus  pound 
(C£)  0.46  to  US$1. 

[Average  exchange  rate  in  1990  for  the  currency  used  by  Turk- 
ish Cypriots,  the  Turkish  lira  (TL),  2,608.6  to  US$1.] 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Railroads:  None. 

Roads:  In  1989  roads  in  the  government-controlled  area  amount- 
ed to  9,824  kilometers,  of  which  5,240  kilometers  were  asphalted 
or  tarred  and  4,584  kilometers  were  dirt  or  gravel.  Some  of  the 
republic's  roads  were  superhighways;  more  such  roads  under  con- 
struction in  the  early  1990s. 

[In  the  mid-1980s,  the  "TRNC"  possessed  6,080  kilometers  of 
roads,  800  kilometers  of  which  unpaved.  Major  roads  connected 
Nicosia  with  some  other  urban  areas.] 

Ports:  Limassol,  followed  by  Larnaca,  important  ports;  Paphos 
and  Vasilikos  also  received  traffic. 


xvi 


[Famagusta  (Gazimagusa)  most  important  Turkish  Cypriot  port, 
equipped  with  modern  facilities.  Small  ports  at  Kalecik  and  Kyre- 
nia  (Girne).] 

Civil  Airports:  As  of  the  early  1990s,  Nicosia  International  Air- 
port closed,  a  result  of  the  Turkish  invasion  of  1974.  Replaced  by 
the  international  airports  at  Larnaca  and  Paphos.  Also  a  number 
of  smaller  airports  in  the  government-controlled  area. 

[Turkish  Cypriots  operated  two  international  airports,  Ercan  and 
Gecitkale.] 

Telecommunications:  Excellent  telecommunications  facilities. 
More  than  200,000  telephones,  all  with  international  direct  dial- 
ing. Three  submarine  cables  and  three  satellite  ground  stations  con- 
nected to  international  systems  guaranteed  ready  communication 
abroad.  State  television  and  radio  network,  in  addition  to  private 
radio  station. 

[Turkish  Cypriots  had  a  modern  telecommunications  system, 
with  connections  abroad  going  via  Turkey.  All  villages  connected 
to  fully  automated  exchange  services.  Government  operated  two 
television  and  radio  stations.] 

Government  and  Politics 

Form  of  Government:  Elected  president  for  five-year  term,  ap- 
pointed Council  of  Ministers,  elected  House  of  Representatives  of 
fifty-six  members  for  five-year  term.  Constitutional  provision  of 
Turkish  Cypriot  vice  president,  three  members  of  Council  of 
Ministers,  and  twenty-four  members  of  House  of  Representatives 
in  disuse  for  decades. 

[Turkish  Cypriots  nonparticipants  in  governance  of  Republic 
of  Cyprus.  State  resulting  from  unilateral  declaration  of  indepen- 
dence in  1983,  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  recognized 
only  by  Turkey.  Elected  president  for  five-year  term,  appointed 
Council  of  Ministers,  elected  Legislative  Assembly  of  fifty  mem- 
bers for  five-year  term.] 

Legal  System:  Supreme  Court  final  appellate  court;  district  and 
assize  courts  with  civil  and  criminal  jurisdictions.  Supreme  Coun- 
cil of  Judicature — composed  of  attorney  general,  members  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  others — deals  with  appointment  and  promo- 
tion of  judges. 

[Turkish  Cypriots  employ  a  parallel  system,  with  additional  spe- 
cial courts  for  family  matters.] 

Politics:  Resolving  intercommunal  crisis  major  political  issue.  Four 
political  parties  represented  in  House  of  Representatives  accounted 


xvn 


for  over  95  percent  of  vote;  several  right-  and  left-wing  splinter 
parties  accounted  for  the  remainder.  Moderate  conservative 
Democratic  Rally  (DISY),  founded  by  Glafkos  Clerides  in  1976, 
won  35.8  percent  of  vote  and  twenty  seats  in  1991  parliamentary 
election.  Democratic  Party  (DIKO),  founded  by  Spyros  Kyprianou 
in  1976,  won  19.5  percent  of  vote  and  eleven  parliamentary  seats 
in  1991  election.  Long  a  government  party,  DIKO  was  center  right 
and  close  to  Archbishop  Makarios  III.  The  social-democratic  United 
Democratic  Union  of  the  Center  (EDEK)  founded  in  1969  by  Vas- 
sos  Lyssarides,  still  its  leader  in  1992.  EDEK  won  10.9  percent 
of  the  vote  and  seven  seats  in  1991  elections.  The  Progressive  Party 
of  the  Working  People  (AKEL)  dates  from  1941 ,  but  with  histori- 
cal ties  to  communist  movement  of  1920s.  Although  long  doctrinaire 
and  subservient  to  the  former  Soviet  Union,  AKEL  moderate  left 
wing  in  practice.  In  1991,  elections  won  30.6  percent  of  vote  and 
eighteen  seats.  Flexible  on  intercommunal  problem,  it  often  allied 
with  DISY  on  this  issue.  EDEK  and  DIKO  frequently  advocated 
a  more  traditional  approach  to  end  the  island's  division. 

[Three  main  Turkish  Cypriot  parties  and  a  smaller  right-wing 
party  offered  voters  range  of  choices.  For  the  1990  Legislative  As- 
sembly election,  unsuccessful  electoral  alliance  against  governing 
party,  the  conservative  National  Unity  Party  (UBP).  The  UBP  won 
55  percent  of  the  vote  and  thirty-four  seats  in  parliament.  Found- 
ed in  1975  by  Rauf  Denkta§,  this  perennial  governing  party  led 
in  early  1990s  by  Prime  Minister  Dervis.  Eroglu.  Rightist  New 
Dawn  Party  (YDP)  formed  in  1984  to  represent  Turkish  settlers. 
Won  two  seats  in  1990,  which  it  subsequently  occupied.  Moder- 
ate Communal  Liberation  Party  (TKP)  often  opposed  UBP  poli- 
cies, urging  greater  contacts  with  Greek  Cypriots.  Founded  in  1976 
by  Alpay  Durduran,  it  was  led  in  early  1990s  by  Mustafa  Akinci. 
Some  of  the  party  boycotted  the  Legislative  Assembly  after  the  1990 
elections,  refusing  to  take  all  of  its  five  seats.  Left-wing  Republi- 
can Turkish  Party  (CTP)  dated  from  1970.  Led  by  Ozker  Ozgur, 
it  won  seven  seats  in  1990,  but  like  TKP  boycotted  parliament. 
By-elections  in  1991  to  fill  fourteen  empty  parliamentary  seats  result- 
ed in  UBP  winning  eleven  of  them.  In  1992  ten  UBP  delegates 
left  their  party  and  founded  the  Democratic  Party  (DP).] 

International  Memberships:  United  Nations  and  its  affiliated  or- 
ganizations; World  Bank;  International  Monetary  Fund;  Common- 
wealth of  Nations;  Council  of  Europe;  Conference  on  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe;  associate  membership  in  European  Com- 
munity. 


xviii 


["Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  an  observer  at  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference.] 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  National  Guard— 13,000  active  in  1989,  1,800  of 
whom  officers  and  NCOs  seconded  from  the  Greek  Army;  66,000 
first-line  and  30,000  second-line  reserves  as  of  1990.  Five  active 
battalions:  two  mechanized;  one  armored;  one  artillery;  one 
commando. 

[The  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force  consisted  of  an  estimated 
4,000  men;  most  officers  seconded  from  the  Turkish  Army;  5,000 
first-line  and  10,000  second-line  reserves  as  of  1989.  The  force  or- 
ganized into  seven  infantry  battalions  equipped  with  light  weapons. 
The  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force,  supported  by  an  estimated 
30,000  soldiers  of  the  Turkish  Army,  organized  into  two  infantry 
divisions  and  an  armored  brigade.] 

Military  Equipment:  As  of  1990,  National  Guard's  weapons  in- 
cluded 30  AMX  B-2  tanks,  27  armored  infantry  fighting  vehicles, 
over  100  armored  personnel  carriers,  several  hundred  howitzers, 
mortars,  recoilless  rifles  and  other  pieces  of  artillery,  20  SA-7  mis- 
siles, 6  Gazelle  helicopters,  and  3  coastal  patrol  boats. 

[Turkish  forces  equipped  with  several  hundred  M-47  and  M-48 
tanks,  105  mm,  155mm,  and  203mm  guns  and  howitzers,  and  Bell 
Uh-  ID  helicopters.] 

Other  Forces:  United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus 
(UNICYP)  consisted  of  about  2,000  men  as  of  1990,  organized 
into  four  infantry  battalions  along  national  lines.  As  of  1990,  Brit- 
ish Army  and  Royal  Air  Force  had  about  4,000  troops  stationed 
in  two  Sovereign  Base  Areas.  Army  organized  into  one  infantry 
battalion  and  two  infantry  companies  and  one  armed  reconnais- 
sance squadron;  RAF  unit  consisted  of  one  squadron  with  five  Wes- 
sex  helicopters.  Army  equipped  with  six  Gazelle  helicopters. 

Military  Budget:  In  1990  about  US$325  million. 

[Planned  Turkish  Cypriot  budget  of  US$3.9  million  for  1990; 
most  defense  costs  borne  by  Turkey.] 

Police:  Cyprus  Police  Force  personnel  amounted  to  3,700  in  1989. 


xix 


Introduction 


THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS  came  into  being  on  August  16, 
1960.  The  reluctant  republic,  as  it  has  often  been  termed,  was  seen 
as  a  necessary  compromise  by  Greek  Cypriots  and  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots,  the  two  peoples  who  would  live  within  it,  and  the  three  for- 
eign powers  who  had  been  parties  to  its  creation.  Greek  Cypriots 
preferred  enosis,  that  is,  the  union  of  their  island  with  the  Greek 
motherland,  rather  than  the  creation  of  an  independent  state.  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  preferred  that  the  island  remain  under  British  rule 
as  it  had  been  since  1878.  If  British  governance  were  not  possible, 
many  Turkish  Cypriots  favored  partition,  or  taksim,  of  the  island 
and  the  union  of  the  parts  of  the  island  in  which  they  lived  with 
Turkey — their  ethnic  motherland.  Greece,  for  its  part,  preferred 
that  enosis  be  achieved  once  again  and  that  Cyprus,  like  a  num- 
ber of  other  islands,  be  united  with  the  Hellenic  motherland.  Tur- 
key's principal  desire  was  that  Cyprus  not  come  under  Greek  control 
and  be  yet  another  island  off  the  Turkish  coast  from  which  it  could 
be  attacked  by  its  traditional  enemy.  Britain  would  have  preferred 
a  more  measured  cessation  of  its  rule  of  the  island,  but  the  armed 
insurrection  during  the  second  half  of  the  1950s  made  the  creation 
of  an  independent  Cypriot  republic  seem  a  way  out  of  a  difficult 
situation.  In  addition,  Britain's  military  needs  could  be  met  by  ar- 
ranging for  bases  on  the  island,  rather  than  keeping  the  island  of 
Cyprus  itself  as  a  base. 

Negotiations  between  the  Greek  and  Turkish  foreign  ministers 
in  late  1958  and  early  1959  resulted  in  three  treaties  that  met  to 
some  degree  the  desires  and  needs  of  Greece,  Turkey,  and  Brit- 
ain. Representatives  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot 
communities  signed  the  treaties,  but  without  enthusiasm.  The  three 
treaties — the  Treaty  of  Guarantee,  the  Treaty  of  Alliance,  and  the 
Treaty  of  Establishment — went  into  effect  on  August  16,  1960. 

The  Treaty  of  Guarantee  provides  that  Greece,  Turkey,  and  Brit- 
ain will  ensure  the  independence  and  sovereignty  of  the  Repub- 
lic of  Cyprus.  It  bans  political  or  economic  union  of  the  republic 
with  any  foreign  state  and  bans  activities  that  would  lead  to  such 
unions.  Forty-eight  of  the  basic  articles  of  the  constitution  were 
incorporated  into  the  Treaty  of  Guarantee,  and  the  treaty's  signa- 
tories were  pledged  to  uphold  the  "state  of  affairs"  established 
by  the  constitution.  Article  IV  of  the  treaty  states  that  if  this  "state 
of  affairs"  is  endangered  or  altered,  Greece,  Turkey,  and  Brit- 
ain are  obliged  to  consult  together  and  act  to  restore  it.  If  joint 


xxi 


consultations  or  actions  are  not  possible,  these  states  may  act  in- 
dependently. 

The  Treaty  of  Alliance  involves  Cyprus,  Greece,  and  Turkey. 
It  establishes  a  tripartite  headquarters  on  the  island  and  permits 
the  two  latter  states  to  deploy,  respectively,  950  and  650  military 
personnel  to  Cyprus  to  protect  the  island  and  train  its  army.  The 
Treaty  of  Establishment  grants  Britain  sovereignty  over  a  total  of 
256  square  kilometers  of  territory  on  the  island's  southern  coast 
for  two  military  bases,  Akrotiri  and  Dhekelia.  Between  the  sign- 
ing of  these  treaties  in  early  1959  and  independence  on  August  16, 
1960,  a  long  and  intricate  constitution  was  worked  out,  with 
elaborate  protections  for  the  rights  of  the  smaller  Turkish  Cypriot 
community. 

Almost  from  the  beginning,  however,  governing  the  island  was 
difficult.  Resentment  within  the  Greek  Cypriot  community  arose 
because  Turkish  Cypriots  were  given  a  larger  share  of  government 
posts  than  the  size  of  their  population  warranted.  The  dispropor- 
tionate number  of  ministers  and  legislators  assigned  to  Turkish 
Cypriots  meant  that  their  representatives  could  veto  budgets  or  legis- 
lation and  prevent  essential  government  operations  from  being  car- 
ried out.  A  Cypriot  army,  to  be  composed  of  both  ethnic  groups, 
was  not  formed  because  of  disagreements  about  organizational  mat- 
ters. Nor  was  the  crucial  issue  of  municipal  government  settled  to 
the  satisfaction  of  Turkish  Cypriots. 

The  complicated  governmental  system  established  by  the  con- 
stitution would  have  had  difficulty  functioning  well  even  under  nor- 
mal conditions,  but  the  withholding  of  support  for  the  new  republic 
on  the  part  of  many  Cypriots  made  its  smooth  functioning  even 
less  likely.  The  acrimony,  ill  will,  and  suspicion  that  existed  be- 
tween the  two  ethnic  communities  made  impossible  the  spirit  of 
cooperation  needed  for  the  system  to  succeed.  Not  surprisingly, 
the  early  1 960s  saw  the  resurgence  of  armed  groups  that  had  been 
active  during  the  uprising  against  British  rule.  The  Greek  Cypriot 
National  Organization  of  Cypriot  Fighters  (Ethniki  Organosis 
Ky prion  Agoniston — EOKA)  rearmed,  as  did  its  Turkish  Cypriot 
counterpart,  the  Turkish  Resistance  Organization  (Turk  Mukave- 
met  Te§kilati — TMT).  They  were  joined  by  growing  contingents 
of  Greek  and  Turkish  soldiers  from  the  mainland,  whose  numbers 
were  much  in  excess  of  the  limits  set  by  the  Treaty  of  Alliance. 
The  frustrations  of  political  impasse,  coupled  with  the  presence  of 
armed  bands,  made  for  an  explosive  situation. 

In  late  1963,  the  republic's  president,  Archbishop  Makarios  III, 
proposed  a  series  of  constitutional  changes  that,  if  enacted,  would 
have  reduced  the  political  rights  and  powers  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot 


xxn 


community.  These  proposals  worsened  an  already  tense  situation, 
and  in  December  1963  serious  intercommunal  violence  broke  out. 
In  the  next  months,  hundreds  died.  In  March  1964,  the  first  mem- 
bers of  the  United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus  (UN- 
FICYP)  were  deployed  to  Cyprus,  but  hostilities  continued  into 
August  1964.  Only  vigorous  diplomacy  from  United  States  presi- 
dent Lyndon  Johnson  prevented  a  Turkish  invasion  in  June  1964. 

Several  years  of  relative  peace  ensued,  but  the  governing  sys- 
tem established  in  1960  no  longer  functioned.  Turkish  Cypriots 
had  withdrawn  from  the  republic's  politics  and  were  fashioning 
a  governing  system  of  their  own.  In  addition,  a  good  part  of  the 
Turkish  Cypriot  community  lived  in  enclaves  because  many  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  had  abandoned  their  homes  out  of  fear  of  Greek 
Cypriot  violence. 

Intercommunal  violence  erupted  in  November  1 967 ,  when  two 
dozen  Turkish  Cypriots  were  killed  by  Greek  Cypriot  forces  un- 
der the  command  of  Colonel  George  Grivas,  the  leader  of  the  in- 
surgency against  the  British  in  the  1950s.  The  threat  of  a  Turkish 
invasion  led  the  Greek  government  to  remove  Colonel  Grivas  and 
thousands  of  its  troops  from  the  island. 

A  coup  d'etat  in  Athens  in  1967  established  a  military  dictator- 
ship that  lasted  until  1974.  Elements  of  this  regime  pressed  vigorous- 
ly for  enosis.  Some  members  of  the  junta  were  even  willing  to  cede 
parts  of  Cyprus  to  Turkey  in  exchange  for  a  joining  of  the  island 
with  Greece.  Greek  pro-enosists,  joined  by  like-minded  rightist 
Greek  Cypriot  groups,  put  pressure  on  Archbishop  Makarios.  In 
1970  there  was  an  unsuccessful  assassination  attempt  on  the  presi- 
dent. Makarios  yielded  to  the  junta  on  some  points,  once,  for  ex- 
ample, accepting  the  "resignations"  of  several  members  of  his 
cabinet  known  to  oppose  the  Athens  government.  He,  however, 
would  not  compromise  on  the  larger  issue  of  the  territorial  integrity 
of  the  republic.  Makarios,  once  a  leading  exponent  of  enosis,  had 
come  to  place  more  value  on  the  independence  of  Cyprus  as  a  sover- 
eign state  than  on  union  with  Greece. 

In  July  1974,  Greek  Cypriot  underground  groups  and  the  Greek 
Cypriot  National  Guard  overthrew  Archbishop  Makarios  and  select- 
ed Nicos  Sampson,  a  notorious  EOKA  terrorist,  as  his  replace- 
ment. Makarios  escaped  with  British  help  and  appealed  to  world 
opinion  at  the  United  Nations  (UN).  Within  a  week  of  the  rightist 
coup,  Turkish  forces  invaded  Cyprus.  Turkish  officials  justified 
their  country's  actions  by  citing  the  terms  of  Article  IV  of  the  Treaty 
of  Guarantee,  noting  the  impossibility  of  joint  action  with  Greece 
and  the  reluctance  of  Britain  to  use  military  force  to  restore  the 
"state  of  affairs"  established  by  the  constitution  of  1960.  A  brief 


xxiii 


truce  permitted  Turkish  forces  to  consolidate  their  positions,  and 
a  quick  second  campaign  in  mid-August  allowed  them  to  occupy 
37  percent  of  the  republic. 

The  idea  of  enosis  grew  out  of  the  successful  Greek  revolution 
of  the  1820s.  The  dream  of  uniting  all  formerly  Greek  lands  to  the 
motherland  spread  during  the  nineteenth  century.  At  first  the  move- 
ment was  confined  to  the  small  educated  segment  of  society,  but 
as  the  general  population  became  literate,  the  megali  idea  (grand 
idea  in  Greek),  as  it  was  often  termed,  found  ever  more  adher- 
ents. The  enosis  movement  had  some  notable  successes.  Crete  was 
returned  to  Greece  in  the  late  nineteenth  century,  and  after  World 
War  II  a  number  of  islands  off  the  Turkish  coast  became  Greek. 
The  movement  also  suffered  major  reverses,  most  notably  Kemal 
Atatiirk's  beating  back  the  Greek  Army  when  it  invaded  Turkey 
in  the  early  1920s. 

By  the  mid- twentieth  century,  most  Greek  Cypriots  desired  that 
their  island  be  united  with  Greece.  The  campaign  for  enosis  was 
strengthened  by  the  world-wide  upsurge  of  anticolonialism  after 
World  War  II.  The  enosis  movement,  which  had  become  coupled 
with  the  goal  of  ending  British  rule  of  the  island,  erupted  into  armed 
rebellion  in  April  1955. 

Cyprus's  unification  with  Greece  faced  two  significant  obstacles: 
the  island's  proximity  to  Turkey  and  distance  from  Greece,  and 
the  presence  of  a  substantial  Turkish  Gypriot  minority  who  had 
lived  on  the  island  for  hundreds  of  years.  Either  obstacle  by  itself 
could  conceivably  have  been  overcome,  but  together  they  posed 
in  the  end  an  insurmountable  barrier  to  enosis. 

The  island's  size  and  closeness  to  Turkey  meant  that  the  Turk- 
ish military  would  be  opposed  to  its  being  occupied  by  Greek  forces. 
In  addition,  the  800  kilometers  that  lay  between  Cyprus  and  the 
Greek  mainland  made  it  nearly  impossible  for  Greek  forces  to  seize 
and  hold  the  island  successfully. 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  community  was  the  other  significant  bar- 
rier to  enosis.  Present  on  the  island  since  it  had  been  seized  in  1571 
from  Venice,  Turkish  Cypriots  were  adamantly  opposed  to  living 
as  a  minority  under  Greek  rule.  Few  Turkish  Cypriots  had  ob- 
jected to  British  rule,  and  British  policy  had  been  to  use  them  as 
a  counterweight  in  colonial  institutions  in  order  to  block  Greek 
Cypriot  efforts  for  enosis.  The  growing  virulence  of  the  enosist 
movement  was  noted  with  concern  by  the  smaller  community,  and 
during  the  1950s  a  Turkish  Cypriot  nationalism  emerged  that 
rivalled  that  of  the  enosists  in  intensity.  Some  Turkish  Cypriots 
came  to  advocate  taksim,  that  is,  partition  of  the  island,  as  a  way 
to  prevent  their  becoming  a  minority  in  a  Greek  state. 


xxiv 


The  gradually  widening  division  of  the  two  communities  dur- 
ing the  twentieth  century  was  new  to  the  island.  For  centuries  the 
two  groups  had  lived  together  in  mixed  villages  or  in  separate  vil- 
lages close  to  villages  of  the  other  group.  Intercommunal  relations 
were  harmonious  if  reserved;  intermarriage  was  rare,  but  interethnic 
violence  was  even  rarer.  The  two  groups  had  even  joined  together 
at  times  to  protest  despotic  rule  from  Constantinople. 

During  the  twentieth  century,  however,  the  number  of  mixed 
villages  declined,  and  the  first  instances  of  intercommunal  violence 
occurred.  Mounting  pressure  for  enosis  was  the  main  cause  of  es- 
trangement between  the  communities.  Another  cause  was  the  in- 
crease in  schooling  and  literacy.  The  two  communities  used 
textbooks  from  their  respective  motherlands,  texts  laden  with  chau- 
vinistic comments  emphasizing  the  rapacity,  cruelty,  and  duplici- 
ty of  the  other  community.  Centuries  of  conflict  between  Greece 
and  Turkey  afforded  an  ample  stock  of  atrocities  to  strengthen  the 
aversion  felt  for  the  "traditional"  enemy,  be  it  Greek  or  Turkish. 
The  commonly  practiced  British  colonial  policy  of  "divide  and 
rule,"  of  setting  the  two  communities'  interests  against  one  another 
to  maintain  London's  hold  on  Cyprus,  also  engendered  intercom- 
munal animosity.  Some  writers  have  charged  that  the  British  poli- 
cy of  emphasizing  the  role  of  the  communities  in  governing 
encouraged  the  growth  of  ethnic  as  opposed  to  Cypriot  national- 
ism. Some  scholars  have  noted  that  the  absence  of  Cypriot  nation- 
alism was  perhaps  the  most  fateful  legacy  of  British  rule  and  that 
it  doomed  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  from  the  outset.  A  sense  of  na- 
tionalism might  well  have  muted  ethnic  differences  and  bound  the 
island's  inhabitants  together. 

As  a  result  of  these  disparate  factors,  in  the  late  1950s  intercommu- 
nal violence  became  common  for  the  first  time  in  Cypriot  history. 
Violence  of  Cypriot  against  Cypriot  flared  even  stronger  in  the 
1960s  and  ended  hopes  that  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  could  work  as 
planned  in  the  elaborate  and  carefully  crafted  constitution  of  1960. 

At  the  end  of  his  life,  Archbishop  Makarios  stated  in  an  inter- 
view with  a  Norwegian  journalist  that  of  all  the  mistakes  he  had 
made  in  his  life,  he  most  regretted  the  role  he  had  played  in  the 
movement  for  enosis.  Even  before  he  became  the  first  president 
of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  in  1960,  Makarios  was  the  dominant 
figure  on  Cyprus.  His  dominance  extended  from  the  early  1950s 
when  he  became  head  of  the  Greek  Orthodox  Church  of  Cyprus 
until  his  death  in  1977.  He  had  begun  agitating  for  enosis  as  a  young 
bishop.  As  archbishop  he  was  the  ethnarch  or  leader  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  community,  and  in  that  role  he  continued  working  for 
union  with  Greece,  even  enduring  exile  for  his  role  in  the  rebellion 


xxv 


against  British  rule.  He  regarded  the  imposition  of  the  Republic 
of  Cyprus  on  the  island  by  outside  powers  as  a  temporary  setback 
on  the  way  to  enosis,  and  a  setback  that  he  could  undo.  In  the  late 
1960s,  however,  Makarios  stated  publicly  that  he  had  come  to 
regard  enosis  as  still  desirable  but  impossible  to  achieve,  at  least 
in  the  near  future.  Opposed  in  the  1969  presidential  election  by 
a  die-hard  enosist,  Makarios  won  over  95  percent  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  vote.  The  movement's  extremists  resorted  to  violence  in 
the  early  1970s,  even  mounting  an  assassination  attempt  against 
him.  The  movement  to  which  Makarios  had  given  so  much  had 
turned  against  him.  In  1974  enosists  and  the  Greek-led  National 
Guard  staged  a  coup  d'etat  that  caused  Makarios  to  flee  the  coun- 
try. The  Turkish  invasion  a  week  later  partitioned  the  country  and 
resulted  in  one-third  of  the  island's  population  being  driven  from 
their  homes.  The  powerfully  seductive  ideal  of  enosis  furthered  by 
Makarios  during  most  of  his  career  had,  in  his  words,  '  'destroyed 
Cyprus"  and  made  of  him  a  tragic  figure. 

As  of  late  1992,  Cyprus  remained  partitioned.  The  southern  por- 
tion of  the  island  was  governed  by  the  internationally  recognized 
Republic  of  Cyprus  and  was  home  to  the  island's  Greek  Cypriot 
community.  This  community  had  made  a  remarkable  recovery  since 
1974,  despite  the  great  material  and  psychological  damage  it  had 
suffered  from  the  Turkish  invasion.  Its  economy  had  flourished 
and  modernized  and  created  a  standard  of  living  superior  to  that 
of  some  West  European  nations.  This  achievement  was  made  pos- 
sible by  a  versatile  and  skilled  work  force,  a  well-established  en- 
trepreneurial class,  a  sophisticated  program  of  government 
planning,  and  a  highly  successful  tourist  industry  that  welcomed 
over  a  million  tourists  a  year  by  the  early  1990s.  Foreign  econom- 
ic aid  also  contributed  to  the  striking  economic  recovery,  as  did 
the  collapse  of  Beirut  as  an  international  business  center  in  the  Mid- 
dle East. 

Prosperity  led  to  social  changes  and  permitted  an  expansion  of 
the  education  system.  Although  Greek  Cypriot  society  remained 
more  traditional  than  most  European  societies,  women  worked  more 
outside  the  home  than  their  mothers  did  and  young  people  dis- 
played many  of  the  characteristics  of  their  West  European  counter- 
parts. Education  was  widely  available  and  esteemed.  The  Republic 
of  Cyprus  had  one  of  highest  rates  of  university  graduates  in  the 
world.  This  was  true  despite  the  fact  that,  until  the  early  1990s, 
all  Greek  Cypriots  wishing  to  study  at  the  university  level  had  to 
do  so  abroad  because  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  had  no  university. 

Greek  Cypriot  politics  matured  after  the  invasion.  During  the 
first  years  of  the  republic's  history,  political  parties  more  closely 


xxvi 


resembled  groupings  or  factions  around  dominant  individuals  than 
organizations  with  political  programs.  After  the  events  of  1974, 
new  parties  with  a  more  clearly  defined  political  ideology  formed. 
Only  the  two  left-wing  parties  pre-dated  1974:  the  Progressive  Party 
of  the  Working  People  (Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou 
Laou — AKEL),  a  doctrinaire  yet  in  practice  a  moderate  and  prag- 
matic communist  party;  and  the  United  Democratic  Union  of 
Cyprus  (Eniea  Dimokratiki  Enosis  Kyprou — EDEK),  usually 
referred  to  as  the  Socialist  Party  EDEK  (Sosialistiko  Komma 
EDEK),  a  left-wing  party  consisting  mainly  of  urban  white-collar 
employees  and  professionals.  In  1976  two  right-wing  parties  were 
formed:  the  Democratic  Rally  (Dimokratikos  Synagermos— -DISY), 
led  by  Glafkos  Klerides;  and  the  Democratic  Party  (Dimokratiko 
Komma — DIKO),  headed  by  Spyros  Kyprianou,  who  succeeded 
Archbishop  Makarios  as  president.  Kyprianou  remained  president 
until  his  defeat  in  1988  by  George  Vassiliou,  a  businessman  not 
tied  to  any  party,  who  had  the  backing  of  AKEL  and  EDEK.  In 
addition  to  these  four  main  parties,  several  smaller  groups  were 
active  as  well. 

Domestic  politics  mirrored  those  of  most  other  prosperous  demo- 
cratic countries,  with  individual  parties  advocating  policies  in  con- 
sonance with  their  political  philosophy.  The  overriding  issue  in 
Cypriot  politics,  however,  was  the  question  of  dealing  with  the  de 
facto  partition  of  the  island.  Here  the  parties'  course  was  unusual. 
The  right-wing  DISY  and  the  communist  AKEL  generally  advo- 
cated a  more  flexible  approach  to  negotiating  with  the  Turkish 
Cypriots.  These  two  parties  favored  making  greater  concessions 
than  had  former  President  Kyprianou,  and  they  were  frequently 
harsh  in  their  criticism  of  what  they  regarded  as  his  intransigence 
or  insufficient  sense  of  reality.  DIKO  and  EDEK,  for  their  part, 
were  less  willing  to  yield  up  long-held  positions  no  matter  how  un- 
acceptable they  were  to  Turkish  Cypriot  negotiators.  They  often 
condemned  what  they  saw  as  President  Vassiliou 's  insufficient  pro- 
tection of  the  country's  interests. 

Greek  Cypriot  politics  were  stable.  There  were  four  main  par- 
ties in  the  House  of  Representatives;  the  changing  majorities  in 
this  body  reflected  the  public's  evolving  opinion  on  main  issues. 
Most  analysts  believed,  for  example,  that  the  results  of  the  May 
1991  parliamentary  elections  indicated  that  overall  the  public  sup- 
ported President  Vassiliou 's  willingness  to  break  new  ground  in 
intercommunal  negotiations.  In  the  elections,  DISY  won  twenty 
seats  in  the  House  of  Representatives,  one  more  than  in  the  last 
parliamentary  elections  in  1985,  and  received  35.8  percent  of  the 
vote.  AKEL  increased  its  number  of  seats  to  eighteen,  a  gain  of 


xxvn 


three,  and  got  30.6  percent  of  the  vote.  AKEL's  win  was  all  the 
more  impressive  because  in  May  1990  a  faction  of  its  membership, 
frustrated  by  a  reform  of  AKEL  that  seemed  too  slow  to  them,  had 
formed  a  new  party,  the  Democratic  Socialist  Renewal  Movement 
(Anorthotiko  Dimokratiko  Sosialistiko  Kinima — ADISOK).  The 
new  party  got  2.4  percent  of  vote,  but  won  no  seats.  DIKO  took 
a  drubbing,  losing  eight  of  its  nineteen  seats  and  polling  only  19.5 
percent  of  the  vote,  compared  with  27.6  percent  in  1985.  Although 
EDEK's  share  of  the  vote  remained  almost  the  same,  falling  slighdy 
to  10.9  percent,  it  gained  one  parliamentary  seat  for  a  total  of  seven. 

President  Vassiliou's  popularity  would  again  be  put  the  test  by 
the  presidential  elections  scheduled  for  February  1993  in  which, 
as  of  late  1992,  there  were  four  candidates.  Running  once  again 
as  an  independent,  President  Vassiliou  had  the  support  of  AKEL. 
Glafkos  Clerides,  unsuccessful  in  several  earlier  attempts  to  win 
the  republic's  highest  political  office,  had  the  support  of  DISY,  the 
party  he  had  founded  and  had  led  since  the  mid-1970s.  DIKO  and 
the  Socialist  Party  EDEK  formed  an  electoral  front  to  back  Paschalis 
Paschalides,  a  businessman  active  in  Cypriot  public  affairs  since 
the  rebellion  against  British  rule.  The  fourth  candidate  was  an  in- 
dependent, Yiannakis  Taliotis,  a  former  deputy  mayor  of  the 
western  port  of  Paphos. 

In  the  northern  part  of  the  island,  37  percent  of  Cyprus' s  terri- 
tory was  occupied  by  the  *  'Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" 
("TRNC"),  unilaterally  proclaimed  in  November  1983  by  the 
Turkish  Cypriots  and  recognized  by  no  state  other  than  Turkey. 
(Because  this  state  is  not  recognized  by  the  United  States  govern- 
ment, its  name  is  within  quotation  marks.)  Protected  by  an  esti- 
mated 30,000  Turkish  troops  based  on  the  island  and  bolstered  by 
much  Turkish  aid,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  had  formed 
its  own  governing  institutions,  fashioned  a  functioning  democracy 
with  a  free  press,  put  in  place  an  education  system  that  extended 
from  the  pre- school  to  the  university  level,  and  laid  the  ground- 
work of  an  economy  that,  despite  a  Greek  Cypriot  economic  block- 
ade, had  registered  respectable  growth  rates  and  benefited  from 
the  visits  of  over  300,000  tourists  a  year. 

As  of  late  1992,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  was  headed  by 
the  veteran  politician  Rauf  Denkta§,  a  leading  figure  in  Cypriot 
affairs  since  the  mid-1950s.  Denkta§  was  elected  president  of  the 
"TRNC"  in  1983  and  again  in  1990.  Until  mid-1992,  he  was  sup- 
ported by  the  National  Unity  Party  (Ulusal  Birlik  Partisi— UBP), 
which  had  been  the  Turkish  Cypriot  governing  party  since  its  found- 
ing in  1975.  After  by-elections  in  1991 ,  the  UBP  controlled  forty-four 


xxviii 


of  the  fifty  seats  in  the  National  Assembly,  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
legislative  body. 

Despite  the  UBP's  virtual  monopoly  of  parliamentary  seats,  there 
was  a  vigorous  political  opposition  in  the  "TRNC."  Two  left-of- 
center  parties,  the  Communal  Liberation  Party  (Toplumcu  Kur- 
tulu§  Partisi — TKP)  and  the  Republican  Turkish  Party  (Cum- 
huriyetci  Turk  Partisi — CTP),  along  with  the  centrist  New  Dawn 
Party  (Y eni  Dogus.  Partisi — YDP)  and  several  smaller  parties,  force- 
fully condemned  the  policies,  both  foreign  and  domestic,  pursued 
by  the  government  and  Denkta§.  These  parties  generally  recom- 
mended greater  flexibility  in  negotiating  with  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  over  issues  relating  to  the  island's  partition.  The  TKP  and 
CTP  were  also  concerned  about  the  role  settlers  from  the  Turkish 
mainland  (estimated  between  30,000  and  50,000)  had  in  the 
"TRNC"  and  might  have  in  a  possibly  negotiated  new  federal, 
bicommunal,  and  bizonal  republic  that  could  eventually  replace 
the  Cypriot  state  that  had  come  into  being  in  1960. 

The  TKP,  the  CTP,  and  the  YDP  had  formed  an  electoral  alli- 
ance, the  Democratic  Struggle  Party  (Demokratik  Miicadele 
Partisi — DMP),  for  the  1990  parliamentary  elections.  The  party 
won  sixteen  seats.  The  TKP  and  CTP  charged  election  irregulari- 
ties and  refused  to  occupy  their  fourteen  seats.  The  1991  by-election 
to  fill  these  seats  resulted  in  ten  for  the  UBP,  the  remainder  going 
to  several  smaller  parties  and  independents.  Many  Turkish  Cypriots 
were  appalled  at  the  results  of  this  election,  fearing  that  the  elec- 
tion endangered  the  survival  of  democratic  politics  in  their  coun- 
try. In  the  latter  half  of  1992,  ten  of  the  UPB's  delegates  withdrew 
from  the  party  and  formed  a  new  group,  the  Democratic  Party 
(Demokratik  Parti — DP),  headed  by  Hakki  Atun  and  having  Serdar 
Denkta§,  a  son  of  Rauf  Denktag,  as  a  member.  Atun  and  his  part- 
ners were  generally  in  agreement  with  the  UBP  on  the  national 
issue,  but  charged  the  party's  leadership  with  extensive  financial 
and  political  corruption.  At  the  end  of  1992,  the  UBP  still  con- 
trolled thirty-four  seats  of  the  fifty-seat  Legislative  Assembly,  but 
its  political  dominance  and  its  leader,  Dervis,  Eroglu,  were  under 
vigorous  attack  from  the  DP,  the  TKP,  the  CTP,  and  some  smaller 
parties. 

This  upheaval  in  Turkish  Cypriot  politics  occurred  against 
a  backdrop  of  international  controversy  over  the  failure  of  in- 
tercommunal  negotiations,  sponsored  by  the  UN  in  the  summer 
and  fall  of  1992,  to  resolve  the  island's  de  facto  partition.  In  the 
first  half  of  1992,  there  was  more  optimism  than  usual  that  these 
negotiations  would  yield  a  settlement  of  the  island's  division  that 
was  acceptable  to  both  ethnic  communities.  Working  from  a 


xxix 


"set  of  ideas"  that  incorporated  many  hard-won  compromises  from 
earlier  negotiations,  the  new  UN  secretary  general,  Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali,  thought  that  an  agreement  was  finally  within  reach. 
Meetings  in  the  summer  and  fall  in  New  York  between  President 
Vassiliou  and  Turkish  Cypriot  leader  Rauf  Denkta§  ended  in  early 
November,  however,  without  success.  Lack  of  agreement  on  the 
degree  of  sovereignty  each  component  part  of  the  new  federal  state 
was  to  possess,  how  much  territory  Turkish  Cypriots  would  relin- 
quish, and  under  what  conditions  Greek  Cypriot  refugees  from 
areas  remaining  under  Turkish  Cypriot  control  were  to  return  to 
their  homes  caused  the  failure.  The  secretary  general  issued  a  report 
that  unequivocally  blamed  the  Turkish  Cypriot  side  for  the  failed 
negotiations.  The  Turkish  Cypriots  rejected  his  judgements  as  un- 
fair. Talks  were  scheduled  to  resume  in  March  1993  after  presiden- 
tial elections  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  in  February. 

Intercommunal  negotiations  to  arrange  a  new  bicommunal,  bi- 
zonal federal  republic  had  been  underway  since  1975.  In  1977 
Makarios  had  agreed  that  the  new  Cypriot  state  would  consist  of 
the  two  communities,  each  with  extensive  local  autonomy  in  dis- 
crete regions,  but  united  via  some  degree  of  federation  into  a  sin- 
gle state.  In  1979  procedures  that  facilitated  further  dialogue  were 
worked  out  by  negotiators  from  the  two  communities.  Aided  by 
the  good  offices  of  the  UN,  negotiations  continued  at  numerous 
venues  through  the  1980s  and  into  the  1990s,  but  without  signifi- 
cant accomplishments.  In  early  1985,  an  agreement  was  nearly 
achieved,  but  President  Kyprianou  backed  off  at  the  last  moment. 
Although  Kyprianou  was  censured  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives for  failure  to  reach  an  agreement,  his  party  won  the  ensuing 
parliamentary  elections.  Voter  discontent  removed  him  from  office 
in  1988.  George  Vassiliou,  an  independent,  was  elected  president, 
probably  because  Greek  Cypriots  hoped  he  could  bring  a  new  open- 
ness and  fresh  initiatives  to  the  negotiating  process. 

Over  the  years,  Greek  Cypriots  had  come  to  accept  the  concept 
of  a  bicommunal,  bizonal,  federal  republic.  This  meant  that  some 
of  Cyprus  would  remain  under  Turkish  Cypriot  control.  Greek 
Cypriots  would  be  allowed  to  return  to  properties  they  owned  in 
this  area  before  1974,  or  be  compensated  for  them,  but  attention 
would  be  paid  to  "certain  practical  difficulties."  Also  accepted  was 
the  principal  Turkish  Cypriot  demand  that  the  two  communities 
be  seen  as  political  equals  despite  their  differences  in  size.  The  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  community  was  not  to  be  seen  as  a  minority,  although 
it  made  up  less  than  20  percent  of  the  island's  population.  It  was 
to  have  exclusive  management  of  its  own  communal  affairs.  Fre- 
quent demands  that  Turkish  troops  be  withdrawn  from  the  island 


xxx 


before  negotiations  began  had  been  abandoned  because  of  hopes 
that  intercommunal  talks  could  have  positive  results. 

As  broad  as  these  concessions  were,  Greek  Cypriots  remained 
adamant  on  a  number  of  points.  They  demanded  the  eventual 
removal  of  Turkish  troops  from  the  island.  Of  even  greater  im- 
portance and  more  difficult  to  resolve  was  how  to  undo  the  losses 
suffered  by  Greek  Cypriot  refugees.  An  estimated  180,000  Greek 
Cypriots  had  fled  or  been  driven  from  their  homes  and  lost  much 
property  in  what  became  the  "TRNC,"  as  compared  with  about 
40,000  Turkish  Cypriots  who  had  moved  out  of  areas  under  the 
control  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Greek  Cypriot  insistence  on 
realizing  the  "three  freedoms"  of  movement,  setdement,  and 
ownership  throughout  Cyprus  for  all  Cypriots  was  intended  to  ex- 
punge the  results  of  the  Turkish  invasion. 

Greek  Cypriot  demands  that  the  three  freedoms  eventually  be 
realized  throughout  Cyprus  challenged  negotiators.  The  degree  and 
quality  of  federation,  or  confederation,  that  Turkish  Cypriots  saw 
as  a  necessary  underpinning  for  their  political  freedom  also  received 
much  discussion. 

Reconciling  these  varied  aims  would  work  only  if  both  commu- 
nities manifested  patience,  flexibility,  and  good  faith.  Given  the 
great  stakes  involved  and  the  power  of  pressure  groups  within  com- 
munities (most  notably  refugee  groups),  these  qualities  were  often 
lacking.  Observers  noted  that  both  parties  on  occasion  demonstrated 
a  desire  to  win  on  all  points  rather  than  conceding  some.  A  negotiat- 
ing team  having  made  some  gains  might  suddenly  renounce  earli- 
er concessions.  Concessions  granted  often  resulted  in  vitriolic  attacks 
from  within  the  negotiators'  own  community.  Confidentiality  of 
negotiations  was  rare;  within  hours  full  accounts  of  closed  talks  were 
available  to  the  public. 

As  always  in  Cypriot  history,  the  success  of  a  new  settlement 
would  be  affected  by  external  forces.  Turkey  and  Greece  would 
almost  certainly  be  involved  in  the  final  agreement  and  would  sign 
treaties  similar  to  the  Treaties  of  Guarantee  and  Alliance.  For  both 
political  and  military  reasons,  neither  Greek  nor  Turkish  elites  could 
ignore  Cyprus  because  in  recent  decades  events  there  had  affected 
the  larger  states,  sometimes  in  ways  not  to  their  liking.  To  reach 
his  objectives,  Archbishop  Makarios,  for  example,  frequently  ap- 
pealed to  the  Greek  people  over  the  heads  of  the  Greek  political 
leadership.  Rauf  Denkta§,  for  his  part,  had  so  much  personal  sup- 
port among  Turkey's  political  and  military  elites  that  only  the  stron- 
gest of  Turkish  governments  could  coerce  him.  In  effect,  he  was 
to  some  degree  independent  of  Turkey,  the  country  that  guaran- 
teed his  survival  and  that  of  the  "TRNC."  Conversely,  Greek  and 


xxxi 


Turkish  politicians  often  found  the  Cyprus  issue  a  ready  tool  with 
which  to  attack  their  domestic  opponents;  hence  there  was  a  nar- 
rowing of  the  range  of  policy  decisions  relating  to  Cyprus  availa- 
ble to  the  leaders  of  the  two  nations. 

The  end  of  the  Cold  War  has  lessened  international  concern  with 
Cyprus,  The  disappearance  of  the  Soviet  Union  meant,  at  least 
in  the  early  1990s,  that  Western  Europe's  security  would  no  longer 
be  threatened  by  a  rupture  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organi- 
zation's southeastern  flank  in  the  event  of  a  war  between  Greece 
and  Turkey  over  Cyprus,  as  could  have  happened  in  1964,  1967, 
and  1974.  Cyprus's  reduced  geopolitical  significance  was  reflect- 
ed in  the  increasing  reluctance  of  the  UN  to  maintain  forces  on 
the  island.  In  addition,  instability  elsewhere  on  the  globe  has  taxed 
the  resources  of  the  organization  and  its  member  states.  As  part 
of  a  planned  reduction  of  UNFICYP  forces,  the  Danish  contin- 
gent of  several  hundred  personnel  was  scheduled  to  depart  from 
Cyprus  by  mid-January  1993,  leaving  1,500  UN  soldiers  to  man 
the  buffer  zone  that  cuts  across  the  island. 

In  the  short  run  at  least,  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  would  most 
likely  benefit  Turkey  because  its  size  and  location  made  its  good- 
will and  cooperation  crucial  to  the  Western  powers,  as  was  demon- 
strated in  the  Gulf  Crisis  of  1990-91 .  Given  the  continuing  instability 
in  the  Middle  East,  in  the  Balkans,  and  in  some  of  the  former  Soviet 
republics  bordering  these  areas,  Turkey's  strategic  importance 
would  probably  endure  and  make  unlikely  sustained  and  signifi- 
cant outside  pressures  to  resolve  the  Cyprus  question.  Greece  re- 
tained, however,  its  trump  card:  its  ability  to  block  Turkey's 
membership  in  the  European  Community  if  the  Cyprus  problem 
were  not  settled  in  a  way  it  found  satisfactory. 

Despite  the  obstacles  to  a  mutually  acceptable  settlement,  hope 
remained  that  the  creation  of  a  new  bicommunal,  bizonal,  federal 
state  might  someday  be  agreed  on.  In  1992  after  the  nearly  twenty 
years  of  division,  the  younger  members  of  each  community  had 
little  or  no  first-hand  knowledge  of  one  another.  Some  observers 
believed  this  lack  of  familiarity  would  facilitate  polite  intercommunal 
relations  along  the  formal  lines  established  by  a  new  settlement. 
Young  Cypriots  had  an  advantage  their  parents  and  grandparents 
had  not  had:  they  knew  well  how  terrible  the  results  would  be  of 
another  failure  to  live  together  peacefully  on  their  small  island. 
Blessed  with  hindsight  and  aware  of  the  immense  gains  a  reason- 
able settlement  would  bring,  perhaps  young  Cypriots  would  make 
their  island  whole  again. 

Eric  Solsten  December  17,  1992 


xxxii 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Artist's  rendition  of  a  sphinx,  carved  in  ivory,  from  Salamis,  eighth  century 
B.C. 


THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CYPRUS  was  established  in  1960,  after 
the  former  colony  gained  independence  from  Britain.  Since  1974, 
however,  a  de  facto  division  of  the  island  has  existed,  with  the  Greek 
Cypriot  community  controlling  63  percent  of  the  territory,  and  the 
Turkish  Cypriots,  backed  by  Turkish  Army  units,  37  percent.  The 
scene  of  anticolonial  and  intercommunal  strife  from  the  mid-1950s 
to  the  mid-1970s,  Cyprus  assumed  an  importance  out  of  propor- 
tion to  its  size  and  population  because  of  its  strategic  location  and 
its  impact  on  the  national  interests  of  other  nations.  The  island's 
location  in  the  eastern  Mediterranean  Sea  has  made  it  easily  ac- 
cessible from  Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa  since  the  earliest  days  of 
ships.  Its  timber  and  mineral  resources  made  it  important  as  a 
source  of  trade  goods  in  the  ancient  world,  but  attracted  conquerors, 
pirates,  and  adventurers  in  addition  to  merchants  and  settlers. 
About  the  middle  of  the  second  millennium  B.C.,  Cyprus  was  sub- 
jected to  foreign  domination  for  the  first  time,  and  from  then  until 
1960,  almost  without  interruption,  outside  powers  controlled  the 
island  and  its  people. 

Christianity  was  introduced  early  in  the  Christian  Era,  when 
Cyprus  was  under  Roman  rule,  by  the  apostles  Paul,  Mark,  and 
Barnabas.  The  martyrdom  of  Barnabas  and  the  later  discovery  of 
his  tomb  are  particularly  important  events  in  the  history  of  the 
Church  of  Cyprus  and  were  instrumental  in  the  church's  becom- 
ing autocephalous  rather  than  remaining  subordinate  to  the  patri- 
archate of  Antioch.  After  doctrinal  controversies  split  Christianity 
between  East  and  West,  the  church  survived  400  years  of  attempts 
by  Roman  Catholic  rulers  to  force  recognition  of  the  authority  of 
the  pope  in  Rome.  After  Cyprus' s  conquest  by  Ottoman  Turks 
in  the  sixteenth  century,  the  sees  of  the  Orthodox  bishops  were 
reestablished,  according  to  the  Ottoman  practice  of  governing 
through  a  millet  (a  community  distinguished  by  religion)  system. 
Provided  a  millet  met  the  empire's  demands,  its  leaders  enjoyed 
a  degree  of  autonomy.  The  head  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  millet,  the 
archbishop,  was  therefore  both  a  religious  and  a  secular  leader, 
and  it  was  entirely  consistent  with  historical  tradition  that,  in  the 
anticolonial  struggle  of  the  mid-1950s,  Archbishop  Makarios  III 
emerged  as  the  leader  of  the  Greek  Cypriots  and  was  subsequently 
elected  president  of  the  new  republic. 

After  Greece  had  won  its  independence  from  the  Ottoman  Em- 
pire in  1821 ,  the  idea  of  enosis  (union  with  Greece)  took  hold  among 


3 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

ethnic  Greeks  living  in  the  Ionian  and  Aegean  islands,  Crete, 
Cyprus,  and  areas  of  Anatolia.  Britain  ceded  the  Ionian  Islands 
to  Greece  in  1864,  and  after  control  of  Cyprus  passed  from  the 
Ottoman  Empire  to  the  British  Empire  in  1878,  Greek  Cypriots 
saw  the  ceding  of  the  Ionian  Islands  as  a  precedent  for  enosis  for 
themselves.  Under  British  rule,  agitation  for  enosis  varied  with  time. 
After  World  War  II,  in  the  era  of  the  breakup  of  colonial  empires, 
the  movement  gained  strength,  and  Greek  Cypriots  spurned  Brit- 
ish liberalization  efforts.  In  the  mid-1950s,  when  anticolonial  guer- 
rilla activities  began,  Turkish  Cypriots — who  until  that  time  had 
only  rarely  expressed  opposition  to  enosis — began  to  agitate  for  tak- 
sim,  or  partition,  and  Greece  and  Turkey  began  actively  to  sup- 
port their  respective  ethnic  groups  on  the  island. 

After  four  years  of  guerrilla  revolt  by  Greek  Cypriots  against 
the  British,  a  compromise  settlement  was  reached  in  Zurich  be- 
tween the  foreign  ministers  of  Greece  and  Turkey  and  later  in  Lon- 
don among  representatives  of  Greece,  Turkey,  Britain,  and  the 
Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  communities.  As  a  result  of 
this  settlement,  Cyprus  became  an  independent  republic.  Indepen- 
dence was  marked  on  August  16,  1960.  In  separate  communal  elec- 
tions, Makarios  became  president,  and  Fazil  Kuciik,  leader  of  the 
Turkish  Cypriots,  became  vice  president.  In  the  early  1960s,  po- 
litical arguments  over  constitutional  interpretation  continually  dead- 
locked the  government.  Greek  Cypriots  insisted  on  revision  of  the 
constitution  and  majority  rule.  Turkish  Cypriots  argued  for  strict 
constructionism,  local  autonomy,  and  the  principle  of  minority  veto. 
The  result  was  stalemate.  Intercommunal  violence  broke  out  in 
December  1963,  and  resulted  in  the  segregation  of  the  two  ethnic 
communities  and  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  Peace- 
keeping Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP).  Even  with  United  Nations 
(UN)  troops  as  a  buffer,  however,  intermittent  conflict  continued 
and  brought  Greece  and  Turkey  to  the  brink  of  war  in  1964  and 
1967. 

The  irony  of  the  divided  Cyprus  that  has  existed  since  1974  is 
that  the  Greek  government  set  the  stage  for  Turkish  intervention. 
The  military  junta  that  controlled  Greece  had  come  to  view  Arch- 
bishop Makarios  as  an  obstacle  to  setdement  of  the  Cyprus  problem 
and  establishment  of  better  relations  between  Athens  and  Ankara. 
A  successful  coup  was  engineered  in  Cyprus  in  July  1974:  Makarios 
was  ousted,  and  a  puppet  president  installed.  Turkey,  as  one  of 
the  guarantor  powers  according  to  the  agreements  that  led  to  Cypri- 
ot independence,  sent  troops  into  Cyprus  to  restore  order.  Britain, 
as  another  guarantor  power,  refused  to  participate.  Meanwhile, 
in  Greece  the  junta  had  collapsed,  and  a  new  government  was  being 


4 


Historical  Setting 


established.  After  a  short  cease-fire  and  a  few  days  of  hurried  negoti- 
ations, the  Turkish  government  reinforced  its  troops  and  ordered 
them  to  secure  the  northern  part  of  the  island. 

Turkish  forces  seized  37  percent  of  the  island  and  effected  a  de 
facto  partition  that  was  still  in  existence  at  the  beginning  of  the 
1990s.  Turkish  Cypriots  declared  the  establishment  of  their  own 
state  in  1983,  but  as  of  1990  only  Turkey  had  recognized  the  "Tur- 
kish Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus."  Although  more  populous  and 
considerably  richer  than  the  Turkish  Cypriot  state,  and  enjoying 
international  recognition,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  had  not  been 
able  to  regain  its  lost  territory.  Increased  military  expenditures  could 
not  offset  the  considerable  Turkish  military  presence  on  the  island. 
Years  of  laborious  negotiations  at  numerous  venues  had  also 
achieved  little  toward  ending  the  island's  tragic  division. 

The  Ancient  Period 

Human  settlements  existed  on  Cyprus  as  early  as  5800  B.C., 
during  the  Neolithic  Era  or  New  Stone  Age.  The  Neolithic  Cypri- 
ots' origin  is  uncertain.  Some  evidence,  including  artifacts  of 
Anatolian  obsidian,  suggests  that  the  setters  were  related  to  the  peo- 
ples of  Asia  Minor  (present-day  Turkey).  The  discovery  of  copper 
on  the  island  around  3000  B.C.  brought  more  frequent  visits  from 
traders.  Trading  ships  were  soon  bringing  settlers  to  exploit  the 
mineral  wealth. 

During  the  long  progression  from  stone  to  bronze,  many  Ne- 
olithic villages  were  abandoned,  as  people  moved  inland  to  settle 
on  the  great  plain  (the  Mesaoria)  and  in  the  foothills  of  the  moun- 
tains. Also  during  this  era  of  transition,  Cypriot  pottery  became 
distinctive  in  shape  and  design,  and  small  figurines  of  fertility  god- 
desses appeared  for  the  first  time.  During  the  same  period,  Cypri- 
ots were  influenced  by  traders  from  the  great  Minoan  civilization 
that  had  developed  on  Crete,  but,  although  trade  was  extensive, 
few  settlers  came  to  Cyprus.  The  Minoan  traders  developed  a  script 
for  Cypriot  commerce,  but  unfortunately  extant  examples  still  await 
decipherment.  The  cultural  advances,  thriving  economy,  and  rela- 
tive lack  of  defenses  invited  the  attention  of  more  powerful  neigh- 
bors, and  during  the  Late  Bronze  Age  (about  1500  B.C.),  the  forces 
of  the  Egyptian  pharaoh,  Thutmose  III,  invaded  the  island. 

After  1400  B.C.,  Mycenaean  and  Mycenaean- Achaean  traders 
from  the  northeastern  Peloponnesus  began  regular  commercial  visits 
to  the  island.  Settlers  from  the  same  areas  arrived  in  large  num- 
bers toward  the  end  of  the  Trojan  War  (traditionally  dated  about 
1184  B.C.).  Even  in  modern  times,  a  strip  of  the  northern  coast 
was  known  as  the  Achaean  Coast  in  commemoration  of  those  early 


5 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


settlers.  The  newcomers  spread  the  use  of  their  spoken  language 
and  introduced  a  script  that  greatly  facilitated  commerce.  They 
also  introduced  the  potter's  wheel  and  began  producing  pottery 
that  eventually  was  carried  by  traders  to  many  mainland  markets. 
By  the  end  of  the  second  millennium  B.C.,  a  distinctive  culture 
had  developed  on  Cyprus.  The  island's  culture  was  tempered  and 
enriched  by  its  position  as  a  crossroads  for  the  commerce  of  three 
continents,  but  in  essence  it  was  distinctively  Hellenic.  It  is  to  this 
3,000  years  of  Hellenic  tradition  that  the  present-day  Greek  Cypriots 
refer  when  arguing  either  for  enosis  or  for  their  own  dominance 
in  an  independent  state. 

Later  Greek  poets  and  playwrights  frequently  mention  the  ear- 
ly influences  of  Cyprus.  Aphrodite,  Greek  goddess  of  love  and  beau- 
ty, was  said  to  have  been  born  out  of  the  sea  foam  on  the  island's 
west  coast.  The  most  important  of  many  temples  to  Aphrodite  was 
built  at  Paphos,  where  the  love  goddess  was  venerated  for  centu- 
ries, and  even  in  modern  times  young  women  visited  the  ruins  to 
make  votive  offerings  and  to  pray  for  good  marriages  or  fertility 
(see  fig.  2).  Aphrodite  is  mentioned  by  Homer  in  the  Iliad  and  Odys- 
sey, as  is  a  Cypriot  king,  Kinyras,  of  Paphos. 

The  Late  Bronze  Age  on  Cyprus  was  characterized  by  a  fusion 
of  the  indigenous  culture  and  the  cultures  brought  by  settlers  from 
the  mainland  areas.  This  fusion  took  place  over  a  long  period  and 
was  affected  by  shifting  power  relationships  and  major  movements 
of  peoples  throughout  the  eastern  Mediterranean  area.  Cyprus  was 
affected  particularly  by  the  introduction  of  iron  tools  and  weapons, 
signaling  the  end  of  the  Bronze  Age  and  the  beginning  of  the  Iron 
Age,  near  the  end  of  the  second  millennium  B.C.  Iron  did  not  dis- 
place bronze  overnight,  any  more  than  one  culture  immediately 
displaced  another  (pockets  of  native  Cypriot  culture,  for  example, 
existed  for  several  more  centuries).  The  introduction  of  iron, 
however,  heralded  major  economic  changes,  and  the  numbers  of 
Greek  setders  ensured  the  dominance  of  their  culture. 

An  important  eastern  influence  during  the  early  part  of  the  first 
millennium  B.C.  came  from  a  Phoenician  settlement.  The  prin- 
cipal Phoenician  concentration  was  at  Kition,  the  modern  city  of 
Larnaca,  on  the  southeast  coast.  Three  thousand  years  later  some 
Turks  and  Turkish  Cypriots  would  try  to  use  such  influences  to 
prove  that  eastern  cultures  predated  Greek  influence  on  the  island. 
On  this  basis,  modern  Cypriots  were  said  to  be  descended  from 
Phoenician  Cypriot  forebears.  Greek  Cypriots  responded  that,  even 
though  visits  by  Phoenician  traders  probably  occurred  as  early  as 
the  third  millennium  B.C.,  colonists  did  not  arrive  until  about 


7 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


800  B.C.  The  Phoenicians  settled  in  several  areas  and  shared  po- 
litical control  with  the  Greeks  until  the  arrival  of  the  Assyrians. 

In  708  B.C.  Cyprus  encompassed  seven  independent  kingdoms 
that  were  conquered  by  the  Assyrian  king,  Sargon  II.  During  the 
Assyrian  dominance,  about  100  years,  Cypriot  kings  maintained 
considerable  autonomy  in  domestic  affairs  and  accumulated  great 
wealth.  The  number  of  city-kingdoms  increased  to  ten,  one  of  which 
was  Phoenician.  The  Cypriot  kings  were  religious  as  well  as  secu- 
lar leaders  and  generally  commanded  the  city's  defense  forces. 
When  Assyrian  power  and  influence  began  to  decline  near  the  end 
of  the  seventh  century  B.C.,  Egypt  filled  the  resulting  vacuum  in 
eastern  Mediterranean  affairs. 

The  Egyptian  pharaohs  had  built  a  powerful  fleet  of  warships 
that  defeated  the  combined  fleets  of  Phoenicia  and  Cyprus,  set- 
ting the  stage  for  Egypt's  domination  of  the  eastern  Mediterrane- 
an. During  the  Egyptian  ascendancy,  the  Cypriot  kings  were  again 
allowed  to  continue  in  power  after  pledging  themselves  vassals  of 
the  pharaoh.  The  main  impact  of  Egyptian  domination  was  the 
reorientation  of  commerce,  making  Egypt  the  principal  market  for 
Cypriot  minerals  and  timber. 

When  Egypt  fell  to  the  Persians  in  the  late  sixth  century  B.C., 
Cyprus  was  made  part  of  a  satrapy  of  King  Darius.  By  the  time 
of  Persian  domination,  Salamis  outshone  the  other  city-kingdoms 
in  wealth  and  splendor,  and  its  kings  were  looked  on  as  first  among 
equals.  Petty  kings  ruled  at  Amathus,  Kition,  Kyrenia,  Lapithos, 
Kourion,  Marion,  Paphos,  Soli,  and  Tamassos,  but  leadership  in 
the  fifth-  and  fourth-century  struggles  against  the  Persians  stemmed 
from  Salamis.  The  king  of  Salamis,  Onesilos,  is  remembered  as 
the  hero  who  died  leading  the  revolt  against  the  Persians  in  498  B.C. 

The  Cypriot  kings  continued  to  enjoy  considerable  autonomy 
while  paying  tribute  to  Persia,  and  were  even  allowed  to  strike  their 
own  coinage.  They  remained  culturally  oriented  toward  Greece, 
and  when  the  Ionians  revolted  against  the  Persians,  those  of  the 
Cypriot  kings  who  were  Greek  also  rebelled.  The  revolt  was  sup- 
pressed quickly,  apparently  without  retaliation. 

In  41 1  B.C.  another  Greek  Cypriot,  Evagoras,  established  him- 
self as  king  of  Salamis  and  worked  for  a  united  Cyprus  that  would 
be  closely  tied  to  the  Greek  states.  By  force  and  by  guile,  the  new 
king  brought  other  Cypriot  kingdoms  into  line  and  led  forces  against 
Persia.  He  also  allied  the  Cypriots  with  Athens,  and  the  Atheni- 
ans honored  him  with  a  statue  in  the  agora.  As  the  Salamisian  king 
gained  prominence  and  power  in  the  eastern  Mediterranean  (even 
attacking  Persian  positions  in  Anatolia),  the  Persians  tried  to  rid 
themselves  of  this  threat  and  eventually  defeated  the  Cypriots. 


8 


Historical  Setting 


Through  diplomacy  Evagoras  managed  to  retain  the  throne  of  Sala- 
mis,  but  the  carefully  nurtured  union  of  the  Cypriot  kingdoms  was 
dissolved.  Although  Cyprus  remained  divided  at  the  end  of  his 
thirty- seven-year  reign,  Evagoras  is  revered  as  a  Greek  Cypriot 
of  uncommon  accomplishment.  He  brought  artists  and  learned  men 
to  his  court  and  fostered  Greek  studies.  He  was  instrumental  in 
having  the  ancient  Cypriot  syllabary  replaced  by  the  Greek  al- 
phabet. He  issued  coins  of  Greek  design  and  in  general  furthered 
the  integration  of  Greek  and  Cypriot  culture. 

Cypriot  freedom  from  the  Persians  finally  came  in  333  B.C.  when 
Alexander  the  Great  decisively  defeated  Persia  at  the  Battle  of  Is- 
sus.  A  short  time  later,  the  Cypriot  kings  were  granted  autonomy 
in  return  for  helping  Alexander  at  the  siege  of  Tyre.  The  death 
of  Alexander  in  323  B.C.  signaled  the  end  of  that  short  period  of 
self-government.  Alexander's  heirs  fought  over  Cyprus,  a  rich  prize, 
for  several  years,  but  in  294  B.C.  it  was  taken  by  Ptolemy,  one 
of  Alexander's  generals,  who  had  established  himself  as  satrap  (and 
eventual  king)  of  Egypt.  Under  the  rule  of  the  Ptolemies,  which 
lasted  for  two  and  one-half  centuries,  the  city-kingdoms  of  Cyprus 
were  abolished  and  a  central  administration  established.  The 
Ptolemaic  period,  marked  by  internal  strife  and  intrigue,  was  ended 
by  Roman  annexation  in  58  B.C.. 

At  first  Rome  governed  the  island  as  part  of  the  province  of 
Cilicia,  and  for  a  time  Cicero,  the  famous  orator,  was  governor. 
Later,  when  administration  was  vested  in  the  Roman  Senate,  the 
island  was  governed  by  a  proconsul  and  divided  into  four  districts: 
Amathus,  Lapithos,  Paphos,  and  Salamis.  The  government  seat 
was  at  Paphos,  and  the  center  of  commerce  at  Salamis. 

Although  the  object  of  Roman  occupation  was  to  exploit  the  is- 
land's resources  for  the  ultimate  gain  of  the  Roman  treasury,  the 
new  rulers  also  brought  a  measure  of  prosperity,  as  their  enforced 
peace  allowed  the  mines,  industries,  and  commercial  establishments 
to  increase  their  activities.  The  Romans  soon  began  building  new 
roads,  harbors,  and  public  buildings.  Although  Paphos  supplant- 
ed Salamis  as  the  capital,  the  latter  retained  its  glory,  remaining 
a  center  of  culture  and  education  as  well  as  of  commerce.  An  earth- 
quake leveled  much  of  Salamis  in  15  B.C.,  but  the  Emperor  Au- 
gustus bestowed  his  favor  on  the  city  and  had  it  rebuilt  in  the  grand 
Roman  fashion  of  the  time. 

Salamis  was  shattered  by  earthquakes  again  in  the  fourth  cen- 
tury. Again  reconstructed,  although  on  a  smaller  scale,  the  city 
never  achieved  its  former  magnificence.  When  its  harbor  silted  up 
in  medieval  times,  it  was  abandoned  to  the  drifting  coastal  sand 
that  eventually  buried  it.  Twentieth-century  archaeologists  have 


9 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

uncovered  much  of  ancient  Salamis,  revealing  glories  from  every 
epoch,  from  the  Bronze  Age  to  its  final  abandonment. 

The  single  most  important  event  during  Roman  rule  was  the 
introduction  of  Christianity  during  the  reign  of  the  Emperor 
Claudius.  According  to  tradition,  the  apostle  Paul  landed  at  Sala- 
mis in  A.D.  45,  accompanied  by  Barnabas,  also  a  convert  to  Chris- 
tianity and  an  apostle.  Barnabas 's  arrival  was  a  homecoming;  he 
was  a  native  of  Salamis,  of  Hellenized  Jewish  parentage.  The  two 
missionaries  traveled  across  Cyprus  preaching  the  new  religion  and 
making  converts.  At  Paphos  they  converted  the  Roman  procon- 
sul, Sergius  Paulus,  who  became  the  first  Roman  of  noble  birth 
to  accept  Christianity,  thus  making  Cyprus  the  first  area  of  the 
empire  to  be  governed  by  a  Christian. 

In  285  the  Emperor  Diocletian  undertook  the  reorganization  of 
the  Roman  Empire,  dividing  its  jurisdiction  between  its  Latin- 
speaking  and  Greek- speaking  halves.  Diocletian's  successor,  Con- 
stantine,  accepted  conversion  and  became  the  first  Christian  Roman 
emperor.  In  324  he  established  his  imperial  residence  at  Byzantium, 
on  the  shore  of  the  Bosporus.  Byzantium  was  renamed  Constan- 
tinople and  eventually  became  the  capital  of  the  Byzantine  (Eastern) 
Empire. 

The  Medieval  Period 

From  Constantine's  establishment  of  the  Byzantine  Empire  until 
the  crusaders  arrived  more  than  800  years  later,  the  history  of 
Cyprus  is  part  of  the  history  of  that  empire.  Under  Byzantine  rule, 
the  Greek  orientation  that  had  been  prominent  since  antiquity  de- 
veloped the  strong  Hellenistic-Christian  character  that  continues 
to  be  a  hallmark  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  community. 

Byzantine  Rule 

By  the  time  Constantine  accepted  Christianity  for  himself,  the 
new  religion  was  probably  already  predominant  on  Cyprus,  ow- 
ing mainly  to  the  early  missionary  work  of  Paul,  Barnabas,  and 
Mark.  Earthquakes  in  the  early  fourth  century  created  havoc  on 
the  island,  and  drought  seriously  damaged  the  economy.  However, 
the  most  significant  event  of  the  century  was  the  struggle  of  the 
Church  of  Cyprus  to  maintain  its  independence  from  the  patri- 
archs of  Antioch.  Three  bishops  represented  Cyprus  at  the  first 
Ecumenical  Council  of  Nicaea  in  325.  At  the  second  council  (Sardi- 
ca,  343),  there  were  twelve  Cypriot  bishops,  indicating  a  great  in- 
crease in  the  number  of  communicants  in  the  intervening  years. 

A  major  struggle  concerning  the  status  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus 
occurred  at  the  third  council,  at  Ephesus,  in  431.  The  powerful 


10 


Kourion  Theater,  west  of  Limassol  on  Episkopi  Bay,  dates  from  the 
second  century  B.  C.  and  was  later  enlarged  by  the  Romans. 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 

patriarch  of  Antioch  argued  forcefully  that  the  small  Cypriot  church 
belonged  in  his  jurisdiction,  but  the  Cypriot  bishops  held  their 
ground,  and  the  council  decided  in  their  favor.  Antioch  still  did 
not  relinquish  its  claim,  however,  and  it  was  not  until  after  the 
discovery  of  the  tomb  of  Saint  Barnabas  containing  a  copy  of  the 
Gospel  of  St.  Matthew  allegedly  placed  there  by  the  apostle  Mark 
that  Emperor  Zeno  intervened  and  settled  the  issue.  The  Church 
of  Cyprus  was  confirmed  as  being  autocephalous,  that  is,  ecclesiasti- 
cally autonomous,  enjoying  the  privilege  of  electing  and  consecrat- 
ing its  own  bishops  and  archbishops  and  ranking  equally  with  the 
churches  of  Antioch,  Jerusalem,  Alexandria,  and  Constantinople. 

Except  for  the  religious  disputes,  a  period  of  calm  prevailed  on 
Cyprus  during  the  early  Byzantine  centuries.  The  social  structure 
was  rigid  and  codified  in  law.  Under  a  law  issued  by  Constantine, 
tenant  farmers  were  made  serfs  and  forbidden  to  leave  the  land 
on  which  they  were  born.  A  later  law  allowed  runaways  to  be 
returned  in  chains  and  punished.  Administration  was  highly  cen- 
tralized, with  government  officials  responsible  direcdy  to  the  em- 
peror. The  wealthy  landlord  and  merchant  classes  retained  their 
age-old  privileges.  The  connection  between  church  and  state  grew 
closer.  The  pervasive  organization  and  authority  of  the  church, 


11 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


however,  sometimes  benefited  the  common  man  by  interceding  in 
cases  of  abuse  of  power  by  public  officials  or  wealthy  persons.  Dur- 
ing the  fifth  and  sixth  centuries,  the  level  of  prosperity  permitted 
the  construction  of  major  cathedrals  in  several  of  the  island's  cit- 
ies and  towns.  Salamis,  renamed  Constantia,  again  became  the 
capital  and  witnessed  another  era  of  greatness.  Archaeologists  have 
uncovered  an  enormous  fourth-century  basilica  at  the  site. 

The  peace  that  many  generations  of  Cypriots  enjoyed  during 
the  middle  centuries  of  the  first  millennium  A.D.  was  shattered 
by  Arab  attacks  during  the  reign  of  Byzantine  emperor  Constans 
II  (641-68).  Sometime  between  647  and  649,  Muawiyah,  the  amir 
of  Syria  (later  caliph  of  the  Muslim  empire),  led  a  1,700-ship  in- 
vasion fleet  against  Cyprus.  Constantia  was  sacked,  and  most  of 
its  population  massacred.  Muawiyah 's  destructive  raid  was  only 
the  first  of  a  long  series  of  attacks  over  the  next  300  years.  Many 
were  merely  quick  piratical  raids,  but  others  were  large-scale  at- 
tacks in  which  many  Cypriots  were  slaughtered  and  great  wealth 
carried  off  or  destroyed.  No  Byzantine  churches  survived  the  Mus- 
lim attacks.  In  965,  General  Nicephorus  Phocas  (later  emperor), 
leading  the  Byzantine  imperial  forces,  drove  the  Arabs  out  of  Crete 
and  Cilicia  and  scored  a  series  of  victories  on  land  and  sea  that 
led  to  the  liberation  of  Cyprus  after  more  than  three  centuries  of 
constant  turmoil. 

The  pitiable  condition  of  the  Cypriots  during  the  three  centu- 
ries of  the  Arab  wars  can  only  be  imagined.  Thousands  upon  thou- 
sands were  killed,  and  other  thousands  were  carried  off  into  slavery. 
Death  and  destruction,  rape  and  rampage  were  the  heritage  of  un- 
numbered generations.  Many  cities  and  towns  were  destroyed, 
never  to  be  rebuilt. 

In  the  twelfth  century,  Isaac  Comnenos,  a  Byzantine  governor, 
set  himself  up  in  the  capital  as  the  emperor  of  Cyprus,  and  the 
authorities  in  Constantinople  were  either  too  weak  or  too  busy  to 
do  anything  about  the  usurper.  When  an  imperial  fleet  was  even- 
tually sent  against  Cyprus,  Comnenos  was  prepared  and,  in  league 
with  Sicilian  pirates,  defeated  the  fleet  and  retained  control  of  the 
island.  Comnenos,  a  tyrant  and  murderer,  was  unlamented  when 
swept  from  power  by  the  king  of  England,  Richard  I  the  Lion- 
Heart. 

After  wintering  in  Sicily,  Richard  set  sail  en  route  to  the  Holy 
Land  as  a  leader  of  the  Third  Crusade.  But  in  April  1191  his  fleet 
was  scattered  by  storms  off  Cyprus.  Two  ships  were  wrecked  off 
the  southern  coast,  and  a  third,  carrying  Richard's  fiancee  Beren- 
garia  of  Navarre,  sought  shelter  in  Lemesos  (Limassol).  The 
wrecked  ships  were  plundered  and  the  survivors  robbed  by  the  forces 


12 


Historical  Setting 


of  Comnenos,  and  the  party  of  the  bride-to-be  was  prevented  from 
obtaining  provisions  and  fresh  water.  When  Richard  arrived  and 
learned  of  these  affronts,  he  took  time  out  from  crusading,  first 
to  marry  Berengaria  in  the  chapel  of  the  fortress  at  Lemesos  and 
then  to  capture  Cyprus  and  depose  Comnenos.  The  capture  of 
Cyprus,  seemingly  a  footnote  to  history,  actually  proved  benefi- 
cial to  the  crusaders  whose  foothold  in  the  Holy  Land  had  almost 
been  eliminated  by  the  Muslim  commander  Saladin.  Cyprus  be- 
came a  strategically  important  logistic  base  and  was  used  as  such 
for  the  next  100  years. 

When  Richard  defeated  Comnenos,  he  extracted  a  huge  bounty 
from  the  Cypriots.  He  then  appointed  officials  to  administer 
Cyprus,  left  a  small  garrison  to  enforce  his  rule,  and  sailed  on  to 
the  Holy  Land.  A  short  time  later,  the  Cypriots  revolted  against 
their  new  overlords.  Although  the  revolt  was  quickly  put  down, 
Richard  decided  that  the  island  was  too  much  of  a  burden,  so  he 
sold  it  to  the  Knights  Templars,  a  Frankish  military  order  whose 
grand  master  was  a  member  of  Richard's  coterie.  Their  oppres- 
sive, tyrannical  rule  made  that  of  the  avaricious  Comnenos  seem 
mild  in  comparison.  The  people  again  rebelled  and  suffered  a  mas- 
sacre, but  their  persistence  led  the  Templars,  convinced  that  they 
would  have  no  peace  on  Cyprus,  to  depart.  Control  of  the  island 
was  turned  over  to  Guy  de  Lusignan,  the  controversial  ruler  of 
the  Latin  (see  Glossary)  kingdom  of  Jerusalem,  who  evidently 
agreed  to  pay  Richard  the  amount  still  owed  him  by  the  Templars. 
More  than  800  years  of  Byzantine  rule  ended  as  the  Frankish  Lu- 
signan dynasty  established  a  Western  feudal  system  on  Cyprus. 

The  Lusignan  and  Venetian  Eras 

Guy  de  Lusignan  lived  only  two  years  after  assuming  control 
in  1192,  but  the  dynasty  that  he  founded  ruled  Cyprus  as  an  in- 
dependent kingdom  for  more  than  three  centuries.  In  religious  mat- 
ters, Lusignan  was  tolerant  of  the  Cypriot  adherence  to  Orthodoxy, 
but  his  brother  Amaury,  who  succeeded  him,  showed  no  such  liber- 
ality. The  stage  was  hence  set  for  a  protracted  struggle,  which  domi- 
nated the  first  half  of  the  Lusignan  period.  At  issue  was  the 
paramountcy  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  over  the  Orthodox 
church.  Latin  sees  were  established  at  Famagusta,  Limassol,  Nico- 
sia, and  Paphos;  land  was  appropriated  for  churches;  and  authority 
to  collect  tithes  was  granted  to  the  Latins.  The  harshness  with  which 
the  Latin  clergy  attempted  to  gain  control  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus 
exacerbated  the  uneasy  relationship  between  Franks  and  Cypri- 
ots. In  1260  Pope  Alexander  IV  issued  the  Bulla  Cypria,  declaring 
the  Latin  church  to  be  the  official  church  of  Cyprus,  forcing  the 


13 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Cypriot  clergy  to  take  oaths  of  obedience,  and  claiming  the  right 
to  all  tithes.  The  papal  ordinance  had  no  more  effect  than  the  con- 
stant persecution  or  the  frequent  visits  of  high-ranking  papal  legates 
sent  to  convert  the  islanders.  The  Cypriots  remained  loyal  to  their 
Orthodox  heritage,  and  by  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century 
the  Latin  clergy  had  become  less  determined  in  its  efforts  to  Latinize 
the  population.  The  dominance  of  the  Latin  church  officially  con- 
tinued for  another  200  years,  but  Cypriots  followed  the  lead  of  their 
own  clergy  and  refused  to  accept  the  imposition  of  their  Western 
rulers'  form  of  Christianity. 

In  the  thirteenth  century,  the  kings  of  Cyprus,  particularly  Hugh 
III  (reigned  1267-84),  tried  to  assist  the  Latin  Christians  of  the  Syri- 
an mainland  in  their  final  efforts  to  retain  their  holdings.  The  Mam- 
luks  of  Egypt,  however,  proved  to  be  the  decisive  defeating  factor, 
capturing  Christian  fortresses  one  after  another  as  they  moved  along 
the  eastern  Mediterranean  littoral  toward  Acre.  With  the  fall  of 
Acre  in  1291,  the  remaining  Christian  positions  were  given  up, 
and  the  Frankish  lords  and  merchants  retreated  to  Cyprus,  which 
became  a  staging  area  for  spasmodic  and  unprofitable  attacks  on 
Syria. 

For  a  century  after  the  fall  of  Acre,  Cyprus  attained  and  held 
a  position  of  influence  and  importance  far  beyond  that  which  such 
a  small  kingdom  would  normally  enjoy.  As  the  only  remaining 
eastern  base  of  operations  against  the  Muslims,  the  island 
prospered,  and  its  kings  gained  importance  among  the  ruling  fam- 
ilies of  Europe.  Under  the  rigid  feudal  system  that  prevailed, 
however,  the  new-found  prosperity  fell  to  the  Franks;  the  native 
Cypriots,  who  were  mostly  serfs,  benefited  little  or  not  at  all.  This 
was  a  period  of  great  architectural  achievement,  as  the  Frankish 
lords  directed  the  construction  of  beautiful  castles  and  palaces,  and 
the  Latin  clergy  ordered  the  building  of  magnificent  cathedrals  and 
monasteries.  The  prosperity  of  the  island  attracted  adventurers, 
merchants,  and  entrepreneurs.  Two  Italian  trading  conglomerates 
from  the  republics  of  Genoa  and  Venice  gained  particular  impor- 
tance in  the  kingdom's  economy.  Through  intrigue,  force,  and 
financial  power,  the  two  Italian  republics  gained  ever-increasing 
privileges,  and  at  one  point  in  the  fourteenth  century  Famagusta 
was  ceded  to  Genoa,  which  exercised  suzerainty  over  the  thriving 
port  for  ninety-one  years. 

The  Lusignans'  ability  to  control  Cypriot  cultural,  economic, 
and  political  life  declined  rapidly  in  the  first  half  of  the  fifteenth 
century.  The  situation  was  particularly  desperate  after  the  capture 
of  King  Janus  I  by  the  Mamluks  in  1426.  The  captors  demanded 
an  enormous  ransom,  putting  Cyprus  again  in  the  position  of  paying 


14 


St.  Chryssostomos  Monastery  near  the  Castle  of  Bujfavento  in  the 
Kyrenia  Range  was  built  in  the  eleventh  century. 

Kolossi  Castle  and  its  domed  sugar  storehouse,  west  of  Limassol, 
were  built  by  Crusaders  in  the  thirteenth  century. 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


15 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

tribute  to  Egypt.  Janus  was  succeeded  by  his  son  John  II,  whose 
reign  was  marked  by  dissension  and  intrigue. 

The  most  important  event  in  the  reign  of  John  II  was  his  mar- 
riage to  Helena  Palaeologos,  a  Greek  who  was  a  granddaughter 
of  a  Byzantine  emperor  and  a  follower  of  the  Orthodox  faith.  Queen 
Helena,  stronger  in  character  than  her  husband,  took  over  the  run- 
ning of  the  kingdom  and  brought  Greek  culture  out  of  the  obliv- 
ion in  which  it  had  languished  for  three  centuries.  Her  actions  in 
favor  of  the  Orthodox  faith  and  Greek  culture  naturally  disturbed 
the  Franks,  who  came  to  consider  her  a  dangerous  enemy,  but  she 
had  become  too  powerful  to  attack.  Greek  Cypriots  have  always 
revered  Queen  Helena  as  a  great  heroine  because  of  her  boldness. 
John  II  and  Helena  died  within  a  few  months  of  each  other  in  1458 
and  were  succeeded  by  their  seventeen-year-old  daughter  Charlotte, 
but  the  succession  was  contested  by  John's  illegitimate  son.  After 
six  years  of  treachery  and  conniving  (even  with  the  Mamluks), 
James  ousted  his  half  sister  and  ascended  the  throne  as  James  II. 
He  is  generally  known  as  James  the  Bastard  and  was  renowned 
for  his  political  amorality. 

After  years  of  enduring  rapacious  forays  by  neighboring  states, 
the  weakened  Kingdom  of  Cyprus  was  forced  to  turn  to  its  ally 
Venice  to  save  itself  from  being  dismembered.  In  1468,  by  virtue 
of  a  marriage  between  James  II  and  Caterina  Cornaro,  daughter 
of  a  Venetian  noble  family,  the  royal  house  of  Cyprus  was  formal- 
ly linked  with  Venice.  James  died  in  1473,  and  the  island  came 
under  Venetian  control.  Caterina  reigned  as  a  figurehead  until 
1489,  when  Venice  formally  annexed  Cyprus  and  ended  the 
300-year  Lusignan  epoch. 

For  ordinary  Cypriots,  the  change  from  Lusignan  to  Venetian 
rule  was  hardly  noticeable.  The  Venetians  were  as  oppressive  as 
their  predecessors  and  aimed  to  profit  as  much  as  possible  from 
their  new  acquisition.  One  difference  was  that  the  wealth  that  had 
been  kept  on  the  island  by  the  Frankish  rulers  was  taken  to 
Venice — Cyprus  was  only  one  outpost  of  the  far-flung  Venetian 
commercial  empire. 

During  the  long  Lusignan  period  and  the  eighty-two  years  of 
Venetian  control,  foreign  rulers  unquestionably  changed  the  Cypri- 
ot  way  of  life,  but  it  was  the  Cypriot  peasant  with  his  Greek  religion 
and  Greek  culture  who  withstood  all  adversity.  Throughout  the 
period,  almost  three  centuries,  there  were  two  distinct  societies, 
one  foreign  and  one  native.  The  first  society  consisted  primarily 
of  Frankish  nobles  with  their  retinues  and  Italian  merchants  with 
their  families  and  followers.  The  second  society,  the  majority  of 
the  population,  consisted  of  Greek  Cypriot  serfs  and  laborers.  Each 


16 


Historical  Setting 


of  these  societies  had  its  own  culture,  language,  and  religion. 
Although  a  decided  effort  was  made  to  supplant  native  customs 
and  beliefs,  the  effort  failed. 

Ottoman  Rule 

Throughout  the  period  of  Venetian  rule,  Ottoman  Turks  raid- 
ed and  attacked  at  will.  In  1489,  the  first  year  of  Venetian  con- 
trol, Turks  attacked  the  Karpas  Peninsula,  pillaging  and  taking 
captives  to  be  sold  into  slavery.  In  1539  the  Turkish  fleet  attacked 
and  destroyed  Limassol.  Fearing  the  ever-expanding  Ottoman  Em- 
pire, the  Venetians  had  fortified  Famagusta,  Nicosia,  and  Kyre- 
nia,  but  most  other  cities  were  easy  prey. 

In  the  summer  of  1570,  the  Turks  struck  again,  but  this  time 
with  a  full-scale  invasion  rather  than  a  raid.  About  60,000  troops, 
including  cavalry  and  artillery,  under  the  command  of  Lala  Mustafa 
Pasha  landed  unopposed  near  Limassol  on  July  2,  1570,  and  laid 
siege  to  Nicosia.  In  an  orgy  of  victory  on  the  day  that  the  city  fell — 
September  9,  1570 — 20,000  Nicosians  were  put  to  death,  and  ev- 
ery church,  public  building,  and  palace  was  looted.  Word  of  the 
massacre  spread,  and  a  few  days  later  Mustafa  took  Kyrenia  without 
having  to  fire  a  shot.  Famagusta,  however,  resisted  and  put  up 
a  heroic  defense  that  lasted  from  September  1570  until  August  1571 . 

The  fall  of  Famagusta  marked  the  beginning  of  the  Ottoman 
period  in  Cyprus.  Two  months  later,  the  naval  forces  of  the  Holy 
League,  composed  mainly  of  Venetian,  Spanish,  and  papal  ships 
under  the  command  of  Don  John  of  Austria,  defeated  the  Turkish 
fleet  at  Lepanto  in  one  of  the  decisive  battles  of  world  history.  The 
victory  over  the  Turks,  however,  came  too  late  to  help  Cyprus, 
and  the  island  remained  under  Ottoman  rule  for  the  next  three 
centuries. 

The  former  foreign  elite  was  destroyed — its  members  killed,  car- 
ried away  as  captives,  or  exiled.  The  Orthodox  Christians,  i.e., 
the  Greek  Cypriots  who  survived,  had  new  foreign  overlords.  Some 
early  decisions  of  these  new  rulers  were  welcome  innovations.  The 
feudal  system  was  abolished,  and  the  freed  serfs  were  allowed  to 
acquire  land  and  work  their  own  farms.  Although  the  small  land- 
holdings  of  the  peasants  were  heavily  taxed,  the  ending  of  serfdom 
changed  the  lives  of  the  island's  ordinary  people.  Another  action 
of  far-reaching  importance  was  the  granting  of  land  to  Turkish  sol- 
diers and  peasants  who  became  the  nucleus  of  the  island's  Turk- 
ish community. 

Although  their  homeland  had  been  dominated  by  foreigners  for 
many  centuries,  it  was  only  after  the  imposition  of  Ottoman  rule 
that  Orthodox  Christians  began  to  develop  a  really  strong  sense 


17 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

of  cohesiveness.  This  change  was  prompted  by  the  Ottoman  prac- 
tice of  ruling  the  empire  through  millets,  or  religious  communities. 
Rather  than  suppressing  the  empire's  many  religious  communi- 
ties, the  Turks  allowed  them  a  degree  of  automony  as  long  as  they 
complied  with  the  demands  of  the  sultan.  The  vast  size  and  the 
ethnic  variety  of  the  empire  made  such  a  policy  imperative.  The 
system  of  governing  through  millets  reestablished  the  authority  of 
the  Church  of  Cyprus  and  made  its  head  the  Greek  Cypriot  lead- 
er, or  ethnarch.  It  became  the  responsibility  of  the  ethnarch  to  ad- 
minister the  territories  where  his  flock  lived  and  to  collect  taxes. 
The  religious  convictions  and  functions  of  the  ethnarch  were  of  no 
concern  to  the  empire  as  long  as  its  needs  were  met. 

In  1575  the  Turks  granted  permission  for  the  return  of  the  arch- 
bishop and  the  three  bishops  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus  to  their  respec- 
tive sees.  They  also  abolished  the  feudal  system,  for  they  saw  it 
as  an  extraneous  power  structure,  unnecessary  and  dangerous.  The 
autocephalous  Church  of  Cyprus  could  function  in  its  place  for  the 
political  and  fiscal  administration  of  the  island's  Christian  inhabi- 
tants. Its  structured  hierarchy  put  even  remote  villages  within  easy 
reach  of  the  central  authority.  Both  parties  benefited.  Greek  Cypri- 
ots gained  a  measure  of  autonomy,  and  the  empire  received 
revenues  without  the  bother  of  administration. 

Ottoman  rule  of  Cyprus  was  at  times  indifferent,  at  times  op- 
pressive, depending  on  the  temperaments  of  the  sultans  and  local 
officials.  The  island  fell  into  economic  decline  both  because  of  the 
empire's  commercial  ineptitude  and  because  the  Atlantic  Ocean 
had  displaced  the  Mediterranean  Sea  as  the  most  important  avenue 
of  commerce.  Natural  disasters  such  as  earthquakes,  infestations 
of  locusts,  and  famines  also  caused  economic  hardship  and  con- 
tributed to  the  general  condition  of  decay  and  decline. 

Reaction  to  Turkish  misrule  caused  uprisings,  but  Greek  Cypriots 
were  not  strong  enough  to  prevail.  Occasional  Turkish  Cypriot  up- 
risings, sometimes  with  their  Christian  neighbors,  against  confis- 
catory taxes  also  failed.  During  the  Greek  War  of  Independence 
in  1821 ,  the  Ottoman  authorities  feared  that  Greek  Cypriots  would 
rebel  again.  Archbishop  Kyprianos,  a  powerful  leader  who  worked 
to  improve  the  education  of  Greek  Cypriot  children,  was  accused 
of  plotting  against  the  government.  Kyprianos,  his  bishops,  and 
hundreds  of  priests  and  important  laymen  were  arrested  and  sum- 
marily hanged  or  decapitated  on  July  9,  1821.  After  a  few  years, 
the  archbishops  were  able  to  regain  authority  in  religious  matters, 
but  as  secular  leaders  they  were  unable  to  regain  any  substantial 
power  until  after  World  War  II. 


18 


Historical  Setting 


The  military  power  of  the  Ottomans  declined  after  the  sixteenth 
century,  and  hereditary  rulers  often  were  inept.  Authority  gradu- 
ally shifted  to  the  office  of  the  grand  vizier,  the  sultan's  chief 
minister.  During  the  seventeenth  century,  the  grand  viziers  acquired 
an  official  residence  in  the  compound  that  housed  government 
ministries  in  Constantinople.  The  compound  was  known  to  the 
Turks  as  Babiali  (High  Gate  or  Sublime  Porte).  By  the  nineteenth 
century,  the  grand  viziers  were  so  powerful  that  the  term  Porte 
became  a  synonym  for  the  Ottoman  government.  Efforts  by  the 
Porte  to  reform  the  administration  of  the  empire  were  continual 
during  the  nineteenth  century;  similar  efforts  by  local  authorities 
on  Cyprus  failed,  as  did  those  of  the  Porte.  Various  Cypriot  move- 
ments arose  in  the  1820s  and  the  1830s  and  worked  to  gain  great- 
er self-government,  but  because  the  imperial  treasury  took  most 
of  the  island's  wealth  and  because  local  officials  were  often  cor- 
rupt, reform  efforts  failed.  Cypriots  had  littie  recourse  through  the 
courts  because  Christian  testimony  was  rarely  accepted. 

The  Ottoman  Turks  became  the  enemy  in  the  eyes  of  the  Greek 
Cypriots,  and  this  enmity  served  as  a  focal  point  for  uniting  the 
major  ethnic  group  on  the  island  under  the  banner  of  Greek  iden- 
tity. Centuries  of  neglect  by  the  Turks,  the  unrelenting  poverty 
of  most  of  the  people,  and  the  ever-present  tax  collectors  fueled 
Greek  nationalism.  The  Church  of  Cyprus  stood  out  as  the  most 
significant  Greek  institution  and  the  leading  exponent  of  Greek  na- 
tionalism. 

During  the  period  of  Ottoman  domination,  Cyprus  had  been 
a  backwater  of  the  empire,  but  in  the  nineteenth  century  it  again 
drew  the  attention  of  West  European  powers.  By  the  1850s,  the 
decaying  Ottoman  Empire  was  known  as  "the  sick  man  of  Eu- 
rope," and  various  nations  sought  to  profit  at  its  expense.  Cyprus 
itself  could  not  fight  for  its  own  freedom,  but  the  centuries  of 
Frankish  and  Turkish  domination  had  not  destroyed  the  ties  of  lan- 
guage, culture,  and  religion  that  bound  the  Greek  Cypriots  to  other 
Greeks.  By  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century,  enosis,  the  idea 
of  uniting  all  Greek  lands  with  the  newly  independent  Greek  main- 
land, was  firmly  rooted  among  educated  Greek  Cypriots.  By  the 
time  the  British  took  over  Cyprus  in  1878,  Greek  Cypriot  nation- 
alism had  already  crystalized. 

British  Rule 

The  sultan  ceded  the  administration  of  Cyprus  to  Britain  in  ex- 
change for  guarantees  that  Britain  would  use  the  island  as  a  base 
to  protect  the  Ottoman  Empire  against  possible  Russian  aggression. 


19 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

The  British  had  been  offered  Cyprus  three  times  (in  1833,  1841, 
and  1845)  before  accepting  it  in  1878. 

In  the  mid- 1870s,  Britain  and  other  European  powers  were  faced 
with  preventing  Russian  expansion  into  areas  controlled  by  a 
weakening  Ottoman  Empire.  Russia  was  trying  to  fill  the  power 
vacuum  by  expanding  the  tsar's  empire  west  and  south  toward  the 
warm- water  port  of  Constantinople  and  the  Dardanelles.  British 
administration  of  Cyprus  was  intended  to  forestall  such  an  expan- 
sion. In  June  1878,  clandestine  negotiations  between  Britain  and 
the  Porte  culminated  in  the  Cyprus  Convention,  by  which  "His 
Imperial  Majesty  the  Sultan  further  consents  to  assign  the  island 
of  Cyprus  to  be  occupied  and  administered  by  England." 

There  was  some  opposition  to  the  agreement  in  Britain,  but  not 
enough  to  prevent  it,  and  colonial  administration  was  established 
on  the  island.  Greek  Cypriot  nationalism  made  its  presence  known 
to  the  new  rulers,  when,  in  a  welcoming  speech  at  Larnaca  for  the 
first  British  high  commissioner,  the  bishop  of  Kition  expressed  the 
hope  that  the  British  would  expedite  the  unification  of  Cyprus  and 
Greece  as  they  had  previously  done  with  the  Ionian  Islands.  Thus, 
the  British  were  confronted  at  the  very  beginning  of  their  adminis- 
tration with  the  reality  that  enosis  was  vital  to  many  Greek  Cypriots. 

The  terms  of  the  convention  provided  that  the  excess  of  the  is- 
land's revenue  over  the  expenditures  for  government  should  be  paid 
as  an  "annual  fixed  payment"  by  Britain  to  the  sultan.  This  proviso 
enabled  the  Porte  to  assert  that  it  had  not  ceded  or  surrendered 
Cyprus  to  the  British,  but  had  merely  temporarily  turned  over  ad- 
ministration. Because  of  these  terms,  the  action  was  sometimes 
described  as  a  British  leasing  of  the  island.  The  "Cyprus  Trib- 
ute" became  a  major  source  of  discontent  underlying  later  Cypri- 
ot unrest. 

Negotiations  eventually  determined  the  sum  of  the  annual  fixed 
payment  at  exactly  92,799  pounds  sterling,  eleven  shillings,  and 
three  pence.  The  governor  of  the  island,  Ronald  Storrs,  later  wrote 
that  the  calculation  of  this  sum  was  made  with  "all  that  scrupulous 
exactitude  characteristic  of  faked  accounts."  The  Cypriots  found 
themselves  not  only  paying  the  tribute,  but  also  covering  the  ex- 
penses incurred  by  the  British  colonial  administration,  creating  a 
steady  drain  on  an  already  poor  economy. 

From  the  start,  the  matter  of  the  Cyprus  Tribute  was  severely 
exacerbated  by  the  fact  that  the  money  was  never  paid  to  Turkey. 
Instead  it  was  deposited  in  the  Bank  of  England  to  pay  off  Turkish 
Crimean  War  loans  (guaranteed  by  both  Britain  and  France)  on 
which  Turkey  had  defaulted.  This  arrangement  greatly  disturbed 
the  Turks  as  well  as  the  Cypriots.  The  small  sum  left  over  went 


20 


Historical  Setting 


into  a  contingency  fund,  which  further  irritated  the  Porte.  Public 
opinion  on  Cyprus  held  that  the  Cypriots  were  being  forced  to  pay 
a  debt  with  which  they  were  in  no  way  connected.  Agitation  against 
the  tribute  was  incessant,  and  the  annual  payment  became  a  sym- 
bol of  British  oppression. 

There  was  also  British  opposition  to  the  tribute.  Undersecretary 
of  State  for  the  Colonies  Winston  Churchill  visited  Cyprus  in  1907 
and,  in  a  report  on  his  visit,  declared,  "We  have  no  right,  except 
by  force  majeure,  to  take  a  penny  of  the  Cyprus  Tribute  to  relieve 
us  from  our  own  obligations,  however  unfortunately  contracted." 
Parliament  soon  voted  a  permanent  annual  grant-in-aid  of  50,000 
pounds  sterling  to  Cyprus  and  reduced  the  tribute  accordingly. 

British  Annexation 

Britain  annulled  the  Cyprus  Convention  and  annexed  the  island 
when  Turkey  joined  forces  with  Germany  and  its  allies  in  1914. 
In  1915  Britain  offered  the  island  to  Greece  as  an  inducement  to 
enter  the  war  on  its  side,  but  King  Constantine  preferred  a  policy 
of  benign  neutrality  and  declined  the  offer.  Turkey  recognized  the 
British  annexation  through  the  1923  Treaty  of  Lausanne.  The  treaty 
brought  advantages  to  the  new  Turkish  state  that  compensated  it 
for  its  loss  of  the  island.  In  1925  Cyprus  became  a  crown  colony, 
and  the  top  British  administrator,  the  high  commissioner,  became 
governor.  This  change  in  status  meant  little  to  Greek  Cypriots, 
and  some  of  them  continued  to  agitate  for  enosis. 

The  constitution  of  1882,  which  was  unchanged  by  the  annexa- 
tion of  1914,  provided  for  a  Legislative  Council  of  twelve  elected 
members  and  six  appointees  of  the  high  commissioner.  Three  of 
the  elected  members  were  to  be  Muslims  (Turkish  Cypriots)  and 
the  remaining  nine  non-Muslims.  This  distribution  was  devised 
on  the  basis  of  a  British  interpretation  of  the  census  taken  in  1881 . 
These  arrangements  favored  the  Muslims.  In  practice,  the  three 
Muslim  members  usually  voted  with  the  six  appointees,  bringing 
about  a  nine  to  nine  stalemate  that  could  be  broken  by  the  vote 
of  the  high  commissioner.  Because  Turkish  Cypriots  were  gener- 
ally supported  by  the  high  commissioners,  the  desires  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  majority  were  thwarted.  When  Cyprus  became  a  crown 
colony  after  1925,  constitutional  modifications  enlarged  the  Legis- 
lative Council  to  twenty-four,  but  the  same  balance  and  resulting 
stalemate  prevailed. 

There  also  remained  much  discontent  with  the  Cyprus  Tribute. 
In  1927  Britain  had  raised  the  annual  grant-in-aid  to  cover  the  entire 
amount,  but  on  the  condition  that  Cyprus  pay  the  crown  an  an- 
nual sum  of  10,000  pounds  sterling  toward  "imperial  defense." 


21 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Cypriots,  however,  were  not  placated.  They  pressed  two  further 
claims  for  sums  they  considered  were  owed  to  them:  the  unexpended 
surplus  of  the  debt  charge  that  had  been  held  back  and  invested 
in  government  securities  since  1878  and  all  of  the  debt  charge  pay- 
ments since  1914,  which,  after  annexation,  the  Cypriots  considered 
illegal. 

The  British  government  rejected  those  pleas  and  made  a  proposal 
to  raise  Cypriot  taxes  to  meet  deficits  brought  on  by  economic  con- 
ditions on  the  island  and  throughout  the  world  at  the  beginning 
of  the  1930s.  These  proposals  aroused  dismay  and  discontent  on 
Cyprus  and  resulted  in  mass  protests  and  mob  violence  in  October 
1931.  A  riot  resulted  in  the  death  of  six  civilians,  injuries  and 
wounds  to  scores  of  others,  and  the  burning  of  the  British  Govern- 
ment House  in  Nicosia.  Before  it  was  quelled,  incidents  had  oc- 
curred in  a  third  of  the  island's  598  villages.  In  ensuing  court  cases, 
some  2,000  persons  were  convicted  of  crimes  in  connection  with 
the  violence. 

Britain  reacted  by  imposing  harsh  restrictions.  Military  reinforce- 
ments were  dispatched  to  the  island,  the  constitution  suspended, 
press  censorship  instituted,  and  political  parties  proscribed.  Two 
bishops  and  eight  other  prominent  citizens  directly  implicated  in 
the  riot  were  exiled.  In  effect,  the  governor  became  a  dictator,  em- 
powered to  rule  by  decree.  Municipal  elections  were  suspended, 
and  until  1943  all  municipal  officials  were  appointed  by  the  govern- 
ment. The  governor  was  to  be  assisted  by  an  Executive  Council, 
and  two  years  later  an  Advisory  Council  was  established;  both  coun- 
cils consisted  only  of  appointees  and  were  restricted  to  advising  on 
domestic  matters  only. 

The  harsh  measures  adopted  by  the  British  on  Cyprus  seemed 
particularly  incongruous  in  view  of  the  relaxation  of  strictures  in 
Egypt  and  India  at  the  same  time.  But  the  harsh  measures  con- 
tinued; the  teaching  of  Greek  and  Turkish  history  was  curtailed, 
and  the  flying  of  Greek  or  Turkish  flags  or  the  public  display  of 
portraits  of  Greek  or  Turkish  heroes  was  forbidden.  The  rules  ap- 
plied to  both  ethnic  groups,  although  Turkish  Cypriots  had  not 
contributed  to  the  disorders  of  1931. 

Perhaps  most  objectionable  to  the  Greek  Cypriots  were  British 
actions  that  Cypriots  perceived  as  being  against  the  church.  After 
the  bishops  of  Kition  and  Kyrenia  had  been  exiled,  only  two  of 
the  church's  four  major  offices  were  occupied,  i.e. ,  the  archbishopric 
in  Nicosia  and  the  bishopric  of  Paphos.  When  Archbishop  Cyril 
III  died  in  1933  leaving  Bishop  Leontios  of  Paphos  as  locum  ten- 
ens,  church  officials  wanted  the  exiled  bishops  returned  for  the  elec- 
tion of  a  new  archbishop.  The  colonial  administration  refused, 


22 


Historical  Setting 


stating  that  the  votes  could  be  sent  from  abroad;  the  church  authori- 
ties objected,  and  the  resulting  stalemate  kept  the  office  vacant  from 
1933  until  1947.  Meanwhile,  in  1937,  in  an  effort  to  counteract 
the  leading  role  played  by  the  clergy  in  the  nationalist  movement, 
the  British  enacted  laws  governing  the  internal  affairs  of  the  church. 
Probably  most  onerous  was  the  provision  subjecting  the  election 
of  an  archbishop  to  the  governor's  approval.  The  laws  were  repealed 
in  1946.  In  June  1947,  Leontios  was  elected  archbishop,  ending 
the  fourteen-year  British  embarrassment  at  being  blamed  for  the 
vacant  archbishopric. 

Under  the  strict  rules  enforced  on  the  island,  Cypriots  were  not 
allowed  to  form  nationalist  groups;  therefore,  during  the  late  1930s, 
the  center  of  enosis  activism  shifted  to  London.  In  1937  the  Com- 
mittee for  Cyprus  Autonomy  was  formed  with  the  avowed  pur- 
pose of  lobbying  Parliament  for  some  degree  of  home  rule.  But 
most  members  of  Parliament  and  of  the  Colonial  Office,  as  well 
as  many  colonial  officials  on  the  island,  misread  the  situation  just 
as  they  had  sixty  years  earlier,  when  they  assumed  administration 
from  the  Ottoman  Turks  and  were  greeted  with  expressions  of  the 
Greek  Cypriot  desire  for  enosis.  The  British  were  still  not  able  to 
understand  the  importance  of  that  desire  to  the  majority  com- 
munity. 

Although  there  was  growing  opposition  to  British  rule,  colonial 
administration  had  brought  some  benefits  to  the  island.  Money 
had  gone  into  modernization  projects.  The  economy,  stagnant  un- 
der the  Ottomans,  had  improved,  and  trade  increased.  Financial 
reforms  eventually  broke  the  hold  money  lenders  had  over  many 
small  farmers.  An  honest  and  efficient  civil  service  was  put  in  place. 
New  schools  were  built  for  the  education  of  Cypriot  children. 
Whereas  only  one  hospital  had  existed  during  the  Ottoman  era, 
several  were  built  by  the  British.  Locusts  were  eradicated,  and  af- 
ter World  War  II  malaria  was  eliminated.  A  new  system  of  roads 
brought  formerly  isolated  villages  into  easy  reach  of  the  island's 
main  cities  and  towns.  A  reforestation  program  to  cover  the  colo- 
ny's denuded  hills  and  mountains  was  begun.  Still,  there  was  much 
poverty,  industry  was  almost  nonexistent,  most  manufactures  were 
imported  from  Britain,  and  Cypriots  did  not  govern  themselves. 

World  War  II  and  Postwar  Nationalism 

Whatever  their  misgivings  about  British  rule,  Cypriots  were 
staunch  supporters  of  the  Allied  cause  in  World  War  II.  This  was 
particularly  true  after  the  invasion  of  Greece  in  1940.  Conscrip- 
tion was  not  imposed  on  the  colony,  but  6,000  Cypriot  volunteers 


23 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

fought  under  British  command  during  the  Greek  campaign.  Be- 
fore the  war  ended,  more  than  30,000  had  served  in  the  British 
forces. 

As  far  as  the  island  itself  was  concerned,  it  escaped  the  war  ex- 
cept for  limited  air  raids.  As  it  had  twenty-five  years  earlier,  the 
island  became  important  as  a  supply  and  training  base  and  as  a 
naval  station.  This  time,  however,  its  use  as  an  air  base  made  it 
particularly  significant  to  the  overall  Allied  cause.  Patriotism  and 
a  common  enemy  did  not  entirely  erase  enosis  in  the  minds  of  Greek 
Cypriots,  and  propagandists  remained  active  during  the  entire  war, 
particularly  in  London,  where  they  hoped  to  gain  friends  and  in- 
fluence lawmakers.  Hopes  were  sometimes  raised  by  the  British 
government  during  the  period  when  Britain  and  Greece  were  prac- 
tically alone  in  the  field  against  the  Axis.  British  foreign  secretary 
Anthony  Eden,  for  example,  hinted  that  the  Cyprus  problem  would 
be  resolved  when  the  war  had  been  won.  Churchill,  then  prime 
minister,  also  made  some  vague  allusions  to  the  postwar  settlement 
of  the  problem.  The  wartime  governor  of  the  island  stated  without 
equivocation  that  enosis  was  not  being  considered,  but  it  is  proba- 
ble that  the  Greek  Cypriots  heard  only  those  voices  that  they  wanted 
to  hear. 

During  the  war,  Britain  made  no  move  to  restore  the  constitu- 
tion that  it  had  revoked  in  1931 ,  to  provide  a  new  one,  or  to  guaran- 
tee any  civil  liberties.  After  October  1941,  however,  political 
meetings  were  condoned,  and  permission  was  granted  by  the  gover- 
nor for  the  formation  of  political  parties.  Without  delay  Cypriot 
communists  founded  the  Progressive  Party  of  the  Working  People 
(Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou  Laou — AKEL)  as  the  suc- 
cessor to  an  earlier  communist  party  that  had  been  established  in 
the  1920s  and  proscribed  during  the  1930s.  Because  of  Western 
wartime  alliances  with  the  Soviet  Union,  the  communist  label  in 
1941  was  not  the  anathema  that  it  later  became;  nevertheless,  some 
Orthodox  clerics  and  middle-class  merchants  were  alarmed  at  the 
appearance  of  the  new  party.  At  the  time,  a  loose  federation  of 
nationalists  backed  by  the  church  and  working  for  enosis  and  the 
Panagrarian  Union  of  Cyprus  (Panagrotiki  Enosis  Kyprou — PEK), 
the  nationalist  peasant  association,  opposed  AKEL. 

In  the  municipal  elections  of  1943,  the  first  since  the  British  crack- 
down of  1931,  AKEL  gained  control  of  the  important  cities  of 
Famagusta  and  Limassol.  After  its  success  at  the  polls,  AKEL  sup- 
ported strikes,  protested  the  absence  of  a  popularly  elected  legisla- 
ture, and  continually  stressed  Cypriot  grievances  incurred  under 
the  rigid  regime  of  the  post- 1931  period.  Both  communists  and  con- 
servative groups  advocated  enosis,  but  for  AKEL  such  advocacy 


24 


Historical  Setting 


was  an  expediency  aimed  at  broadening  its  appeal.  On  other 
matters,  communists  and  conservatives  often  clashed,  sometimes 
violently.  In  January  1946,  eighteen  members  of  the  communist- 
oriented  Pan-Cyprian  Federation  of  Labor  (Pankypria  Ergatiki 
Omospondia — PEO)  were  convicted  of  sedition  by  a  colonial  court 
and  sentenced  to  varying  prison  terms.  Later  that  year,  a  coali- 
tion of  AKEL  and  PEO  was  victorious  in  the  municipal  elections, 
adding  Nicosia  to  the  list  of  cities  having  communist  mayors. 

In  late  1946,  the  British  government  announced  plans  to  liber- 
alize the  colonial  administration  of  Cyprus  and  to  invite  Cypriots 
to  form  a  Consultative  Assembly  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  a 
new  constitution.  Demonstrating  their  good  will  and  conciliatory 
attitude,  the  British  also  allowed  the  return  of  the  1931  exiles, 
repealed  the  1937  religious  laws,  and  pardoned  the  leftists  who  had 
been  convicted  of  sedition  in  1946.  Instead  of  rejoicing,  as  expect- 
ed by  the  British,  the  Greek  Cypriot  hierarchy  reacted  angrily  be- 
cause there  had  been  no  mention  of  enosis. 

Response  to  the  governor's  invitations  to  the  Consultative  As- 
sembly was  mixed.  The  Church  of  Cyprus  had  expressed  its  dis- 
approval, and  twenty-two  Greek  Cypriots  declined  to  appear, 
stating  that  enosis  was  their  sole  political  aim.  In  October  1947, 
the  fiery  bishop  of  Kyrenia  was  elected  archbishop  to  replace  Leon- 
tios,  who  had  died  suddenly  of  natural  causes. 

As  Makarios  II,  the  new  archbishop  continued  to  oppose  Brit- 
ish policy  in  general  and  any  policy  in  particular  that  did  not  ac- 
tively promote  enosis.  Nevertheless,  the  assembly  opened  in 
November  with  eighteen  members  present.  Of  these,  seven  were 
Turkish  Cypriots,  two  were  Greek  Cypriots  without  party  affilia- 
tions, one  was  a  Maronite  from  the  small  minority  of  non-Orthodox 
Christians  on  the  island,  and  eight  were  AKEL-oriented  Greek 
Cypriots — usually  referred  to  as  the  "left  wing."  The  eight  left- 
wing  members  proposed  discussion  of  full  self-government,  but  the 
presiding  officer,  Chief  Justice  Edward  Jackson,  ruled  that  full  self- 
government  was  outside  the  competence  of  the  assembly.  This  rul- 
ing caused  the  left  wing  to  join  the  other  members  in  opposition 
to  the  British.  The  deadlocked  assembly  adjourned  until  May  1948, 
when  the  governor  attempted  to  break  the  deadlock  by  advancing 
new  constitutional  proposals. 

The  new  proposals  included  provisions  for  a  Legislative  Coun- 
cil with  eighteen  elected  Greek  Cypriot  members  and  four  elected 
Turkish  Cypriot  members  in  addition  to  the  colonial  secretary,  the 
attorney  general,  the  treasurer,  and  the  senior  commissioner  as  ap- 
pointed members.  Elections  were  to  be  based  on  universal  adult 
male  suffrage,  with  Greek  Cypriots  elected  from  a  general  list  and 


25 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Turkish  Cypriots  from  a  separate  communal  register.  Women's 
suffrage  was  an  option  to  be  extended  if  the  assembly  so  decided. 
The  presiding  officer  was  to  be  a  governor's  appointee,  who  could 
not  be  a  member  of  the  council  and  would  have  no  vote.  Powers 
were  reserved  to  the  governor  to  pass  or  reject  any  bill  regardless 
of  the  decision  of  the  council,  although  in  the  event  of  a  veto  he 
was  obliged  to  report  his  reasons  to  the  British  government.  The 
governor's  consent  was  also  required  before  any  bill  having  to  do 
with  defense,  finance,  external  affairs,  minorities,  or  amendments 
to  the  constitution  could  be  introduced  in  the  Legislative  Council. 

In  the  political  climate  of  the  immediate  post-World  War  II  era, 
the  proposals  of  the  British  did  not  come  close  to  fulfilling  the  ex- 
pectations and  aspirations  of  the  Greek  Cypriots.  The  idea  of '  Gno- 
sis and  only  enosis"  became  even  more  attractive  to  the  general 
population.  Having  observed  this  upsurge  in  popularity,  AKEL 
felt  obliged  to  shift  from  backing  full  self-government  to  support- 
ing enosis,  although  the  right-wing  government  in  Greece  was  bit- 
terly hostile  to  communism. 

Meanwhile,  the  Church  of  Cyprus  solidified  its  control  over  the 
Greek  Cypriot  community,  intensified  its  activities  for  enosis  and, 
after  the  rise  of  AKEL,  opposed  communism.  Prominent  among 
its  leaders  was  Bishop  Makarios,  spiritual  and  secular  leader  of  the 
Greek  Cypriots.  Born  Michael  Christodoulou  Mouskos  in  1913  to 
peasant  parents  in  the  village  of  Pano  Panayia,  about  thirty  kilo- 
meters northeast  of  Paphos  in  the  foothills  of  the  Troodos  Moun- 
tains, the  future  archbishop  and  president  entered  Kykko  Monastery 
as  a  novice  at  age  thirteen.  His  pursuit  of  education  over  the  next 
several  years  took  him  from  the  monastery  to  the  Pancyprian  Gym- 
nasium in  Nicosia,  where  he  finished  secondary  school.  From  there 
he  moved  to  Athens  University  as  a  deacon  to  study  theology.  Af- 
ter earning  his  degree  in  theology,  he  remained  at  the  university 
during  the  World  War  II  occupation,  studying  law.  He  was  or- 
dained as  a  priest  in  1946,  adopting  the  name  Makarios.  A  few 
months  after  ordination,  he  received  a  scholarship  from  the  World 
Council  of  Churches  that  took  him  to  Boston  University  for  ad- 
vanced studies  at  the  Theological  College.  Before  he  had  complet- 
ed his  studies  at  Boston,  he  was  elected  in  absentia  bishop  of  Kition. 
He  returned  to  Cyprus  in  the  summer  of  1948  to  take  up  his  new 
office. 

Makarios  was  consecrated  as  bishop  on  June  13,  1948,  in  the 
Cathedral  of  Larnaca.  He  also  became  secretary  of  the  Ethnarchy 
Council,  a  position  that  made  him  chief  political  adviser  to  the  arch- 
bishop and  swept  him  into  the  mainstream  of  the  enosis  struggle. 
His  major  accomplishment  as  bishop  was  planning  the  plebiscite 


26 


Historical  Setting 


that  brought  forth  a  96  percent  favorable  vote  for  enosis  in  Janu- 
ary 1950.  In  June  Archbishop  Makarios  II  died,  and  in  October 
the  bishop  of  Kition  was  elected  to  succeed  him.  He  took  office 
as  Makarios  III  and,  at  age  thirty-seven,  was  the  youngest  arch- 
bishop in  the  history  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus.  At  his  inaugura- 
tion, he  pledged  not  to  rest  until  union  with  "Mother  Greece"  had 
been  achieved. 

The  plebiscite  results  and  a  petition  for  enosis  were  taken  to  the 
Greek  Chamber  of  Deputies,  where  Prime  Minister  Sophocles 
Venizelos  urged  the  deputies  to  accept  the  petition  and  incorporate 
the  plea  for  enosis  into  national  policy.  The  plebiscite  data  were 
also  presented  to  the  United  Nations  (UN)  Secretariat  in  New  York, 
with  a  request  that  the  principle  of  self-determination  be  applied 
to  Cyprus.  Makarios  himself  appeared  before  the  UN  in  Febru- 
ary 1951  to  denounce  British  policy,  but  Britain  held  that  the  Cyprus 
problem  was  an  internal  issue  not  subject  to  UN  consideration. 

In  Athens,  enosis  was  a  common  topic  of  coffeehouse  conversa- 
tion, and  Colonel  George  Grivas,  a  Cypriot  native,  was  becoming 
known  for  his  strong  views  on  the  subject.  Grivas,  born  in  1898 
in  the  village  of  Trikomo  about  fifty  kilometers  northeast  of  Nico- 
sia, was  the  son  of  a  grain  merchant.  After  elementary  education 
in  the  village  school,  he  was  sent  to  the  Pancyprian  Gymnasium. 
Reportedly  a  good  student,  Grivas  went  to  Athens  at  age  seven- 
teen to  enter  the  Greek  Military  Academy.  As  a  young  officer  in 
the  Greek  army,  he  saw  action  in  Anatolia  during  the  Greco- 
Turkish  War  of  1920-22,  in  which  he  was  wounded  and  cited  for 
bravery.  Grivas 's  unit  almost  reached  Ankara  during  the  Anatolian 
campaign,  and  he  was  sorely  disappointed  as  the  Greek  campaign 
turned  into  disaster.  However,  he  learned  much  about  war,  par- 
ticularly guerrilla  war.  When  Italy  invaded  Greece  in  1940,  he  was 
a  lieutenant  colonel  serving  as  chief  of  staff  of  an  infantry  division. 

During  the  Nazi  occupation  of  Greece,  Grivas  led  a  right-wing 
extremist  organization  known  by  the  Greek  letter  X  (Chi),  which 
some  authors  describe  as  a  band  of  terrorists  and  others  call  a 
resistance  group.  In  his  memoirs,  Grivas  said  that  it  was  later  British 
propaganda  that  blackened  the  good  name  of  X.  At  any  rate,  Gri- 
vas earned  a  reputation  as  a  courageous  military  leader,  even  though 
his  group  was  eventually  banned.  Later,  after  an  unsuccessful  try 
in  Greek  politics,  he  turned  his  attention  to  his  original  home, 
Cyprus,  and  to  enosis.  For  the  rest  of  his  life,  Grivas  was  devoted 
to  that  cause. 

In  anticipation  of  an  armed  struggle  to  achieve  enosis,  Grivas 
toured  Cyprus  in  July  1951  to  study  the  people  and  terrain  (his 
first  visit  in  twenty  years).  He  discussed  his  ideas  with  Makarios 


27 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

but  was  disappointed  by  the  archbishop's  reservations  about  the 
effectiveness  of  a  guerrilla  uprising.  From  the  beginning,  and 
throughout  their  relationship,  Grivas  resented  having  to  share 
leadership  with  the  archbishop.  Makarios,  concerned  about  Grivas 's 
extremism  from  their  very  first  meeting,  preferred  to  continue  diplo- 
matic efforts,  particularly  efforts  to  get  the  UN  involved.  Entry 
of  both  Greece  and  Turkey  into  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organi- 
zation (NATO)  made  settlement  of  the  Cyprus  issue  more  impor- 
tant to  the  Western  powers,  but  no  new  ideas  were  forthcoming. 
One  year  after  the  reconnaissance  trip  by  Grivas,  a  secret  meeting 
was  arranged  in  Athens  to  bring  together  like-minded  people  in 
a  Cyprus  liberation  committee.  Makarios  chaired  the  meeting.  Gri- 
vas, who  saw  himself  as  the  sole  leader  of  the  movement,  once  again 
was  disappointed  by  the  more  moderate  views  of  the  archbishop. 
The  feelings  of  uneasiness  that  arose  between  the  soldier  and  the 
cleric  never  dissipated.  In  the  end,  the  two  became  bitter  enemies. 

In  July  1954,  Henry  L.  Hopkinson,  minister  of  state  for  the  colo- 
nies, speaking  in  the  British  House  of  Commons,  announced  the 
withdrawal  of  the  1948  constitutional  proposals  for  Cyprus  in  favor 
of  an  alternative  plan.  He  went  on  to  state,  "There  are  certain 
territories  in  the  Commonwealth  which,  owing  to  their  peculiar 
circumstances,  can  never  expect  to  be  fully  independent."  Hop- 
kinson's  "never"  and  the  absence  of  any  mention  of  enosis  doomed 
the  alternative  from  the  beginning. 

In  August  1954,  Greece's  UN  representative  formally  request- 
ed that  self-determination  for  the  people  of  Cyprus  be  included  on 
the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly's  next  session.  That  request 
was  seconded  by  a  petition  to  the  secretary  general  from  Archbishop 
Makarios.  The  British  position  continued  to  be  that  the  subject 
was  an  internal  issue.  Turkey  rejected  the  idea  of  the  union  of 
Cyprus  and  Greece;  its  UN  representative  maintained  that  "the 
people  of  Cyprus  were  no  more  Greek  than  the  territory  itself. ' ' 
The  Turkish  Cypriot  community  had  consistently  opposed  the 
Greek  Cypriot  enosis  movement,  but  had  generally  abstained  from 
direct  action  because  under  British  rule  the  Turkish  minority  sta- 
tus and  identity  were  protected.  The  expressed  attitude  of  the 
Cyprus  Turkish  Minority  Association  was  that,  in  the  event  of  Brit- 
ish withdrawal,  control  of  Cyprus  should  simply  revert  to  Turkey. 
(This  position  ignored  the  fact  that  Turkey  gave  up  all  rights  and 
claims  in  the  1923  Treaty  of  Lausanne.)  Turkish  Cypriot  identifi- 
cation with  Turkey  had  grown  stronger,  and  after  1954  the  Turk- 
ish government  had  become  increasingly  involved  as  the  Cyprus 
problem  became  an  international  issue.  On  the  island,  an  under- 
ground political  organization  known  as  Volkan  (volcano)  was 


28 


Turkish  quarter  of  Nicosia 
Courtesy  Office  of  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,  "  Washington 

formed.  Volkan  eventually  established  in  1957  the  Turkish 
Resistance  Organization  (Turk  Mukavemet  Te§kilati — TMT),  a 
guerrilla  group  that  fought  for  Turkish  Cypriot  interests.  In  Greece, 
enosis  was  a  dominant  issue  in  politics,  and  pro-enosis  demonstra- 
tions became  commonplace  in  Athens.  Cyprus  was  also  bombard- 
ed with  radio  broadcasts  from  Greece  pressing  for  enosis. 

In  the  late  summer  and  fall  of  1954,  the  Cyprus  problem  inten- 
sified. On  Cyprus  the  colonial  government  threatened  advocates 
of  enosis  with  up  to  five  years'  imprisonment  and  warned  that  an- 
tisedition  laws  would  be  strictly  enforced.  The  archbishop  defied 
the  law,  but  no  action  was  taken  against  him. 

Anti-British  sentiments  were  exacerbated  when  Britain  concluded 
an  agreement  with  Egypt  for  the  evacuation  of  forces  from  the  Suez 
Canal  zone  and  began  moving  the  headquarters  of  the  British  Mid- 
dle East  Land  and  Air  Forces  to  Cyprus.  Meanwhile,  Grivas  had 
returned  to  the  island  surreptitiously  and  made  contact  with 
Makarios.  In  December  the  UN  General  Assembly,  after  consider- 
ation of  the  Cyprus  item  placed  on  the  agenda  by  Greece,  adopt- 
ed a  New  Zealand  proposal  that,  using  diplomatic  jargon, 
announced  the  decision  "not  to  consider  the  problem  further  for 
the  time  being,  because  it  does  not  appear  appropriate  to  adopt 
a  resolution  on  the  question  of  Cyprus."  Reaction  to  the  setback 


29 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

at  the  UN  was  immediate  and  violent.  Greek  Cypriot  leaders  called 
a  general  strike,  and  schoolchildren  left  their  classrooms  to  demon- 
strate in  the  streets.  These  events  were  followed  by  the  worst  riot- 
ing since  1931 .  Makarios,  who  was  at  the  UN  in  New  York  during 
the  trouble,  returned  to  Nicosia  on  January  10,  1955.  At  a  meet- 
ing with  Makarios,  Grivas  stated  that  their  group  needed  a  name 
and  suggested  that  it  be  called  the  National  Organization  of  Cypriot 
Fighters  (Ethniki  Organosis  Kyprion  Agoniston — EOKA). 
Makarios  agreed,  and,  within  a  few  months,  EOKA  was  widely 
known. 

The  Emergency 

On  April  1 ,  1955,  EOKA  opened  a  campaign  of  violence  against 
British  rule  in  a  well-coordinated  series  of  attacks  on  police,  mili- 
tary, and  other  government  installations  in  Nicosia,  Famagusta, 
Larnaca,  and  Limassol.  In  Nicosia  the  radio  station  was  blown  up. 
Grivas  circulated  his  first  proclamation  as  leader  of  EOKA  under 
his  code  name  Dighenis  (a  hero  of  Cypriot  mythology),  and  the 
four-year  revolutionary  struggle  was  launched.  According  to  cap- 
tured EOKA  documents,  Cypriot  communists  were  not  to  be  ac- 
cepted for  membership  and  were  enjoined  to  stand  clear  of  the 
struggle  if  they  were  sincerely  interested  in  enosis.  The  Turkish 
Cypriots  were  described  as  compatriots  in  the  effort  against  an  alien 
ruler;  they  too  were  simply  asked  to  stand  clear,  to  refrain  from 
opposition,  and  to  avoid  any  alliance  with  the  British. 

During  a  difficult  summer  of  attacks  and  counterattacks,  the 
Tripartite  Conference  of  1955  was  convened  in  London  in  August 
at  British  invitation;  representatives  of  the  Greek  and  Turkish 
governments  met  with  British  authorities  to  discuss  Cyprus — a  rad- 
ical departure  from  traditional  British  policy.  Heretofore  the  Brit- 
ish had  considered  colonial  domestic  matters  internal  affairs  not 
to  be  discussed  with  foreigners.  Greece  accepted  the  invitation  with 
some  hesitation  because  no  Cypriots  had  been  invited,  but  reluc- 
tantly decided  to  attend.  The  Turks  also  accepted.  The  meeting 
broke  up  in  September,  having  accomplished  nothing.  The  Greeks 
were  dissatisfied  because  Cypriot  self-determination  (a  code  word 
for  enosis)  was  not  offered;  the  Turks  because  it  was  not  forbidden. 

A  bombing  incident  at  the  Turkish  consulate  in  Salonika,  Greece, 
a  day  before  the  meeting  ended  led  to  serious  rioting  in  Istanbul 
and  Izmir.  It  was  later  learned  that  the  bombing  had  been  carried 
out  by  a  Turk,  and  that  the  riots  had  been  prearranged  by  the 
government  of  Turkey  to  bring  pressure  on  the  Greeks  and  to  show 
the  world  that  Turks  were  keenly  interested  in  Cyprus.  The  Turk- 
ish riots  got  so  out  of  hand  and  destroyed  so  much  Greek  property 


30 


Historical  Setting 


in  Turkey  that  Premier  Adrian  Menderes  called  out  the  army  and 
declared  martial  law.  Greece  reacted  by  withdrawing  its  represen- 
tatives from  the  NATO  headquarters  in  Turkey,  and  relations  be- 
tween the  two  NATO  partners  became  quite  strained. 

Shortly  after  the  abortive  tripartite  meeting,  Field  Marshal  John 
Harding,  chief  of  the  British  imperial  general  staff,  was  named 
governor  of  Cyprus  and  arrived  on  the  island  to  assume  his  post 
in  October  1955.  Harding  immediately  began  talks  with  Makarios, 
describing  a  multimillion-pound  development  plan  that  would  be 
adopted  contingent  on  acceptance  of  limited  self-government  and 
postponement  of  self-determination.  Harding  wanted  to  leave  no 
doubt  that  he  was  there  to  restore  law  and  order,  and  Grivas  wanted 
the  new  governor  to  realize  that  a  get-tough  policy  was  not  going 
to  have  any  great  effect  on  EOKA.  In  November  Harding  declared 
a  state  of  emergency,  banning  public  assemblies,  introducing  the 
death  penalty  for  carrying  a  weapon,  and  making  strikes  illegal. 
British  troops  were  put  on  a  wartime  footing,  and  about  300  Brit- 
ish policemen  were  brought  to  the  island  to  replace  EOKA  sym- 
pathizers purged  from  the  local  force. 

Further  talks  between  Harding  and  Makarios  in  January  1956 
began  favorably  but  degenerated  into  a  stalemate  and  broke  up 
in  March,  with  each  side  accusing  the  other  of  bad  faith  and  in- 
transigence. A  few  days  later,  Makarios  was  seized,  charged  with 
complicity  in  violence,  and,  along  with  the  bishop  of  Kyrenia  and 
two  other  priests,  exiled  to  the  Seychelles.  This  step  removed  the 
archbishop's  influence  on  EOKA,  leaving  less  moderate  forces  in 
control.  The  level  of  violence  on  Cyprus  increased,  a  general  strike 
was  called,  and  Grivas  had  political  leadership  thrust  on  him  by 
the  archbishop's  absence. 

In  July  the  British  government  appointed  Lord  Radcliffe,  a  jurist, 
to  the  post  of  commissioner  for  constitutional  reform.  Radcliffe 's 
proposals,  submitted  in  December,  contained  provisions  for  a 
balanced  legislature,  as  in  former  schemes.  But  the  proposals  also 
included  an  option  of  self-determination  at  some  indefinite  time 
in  the  future  and  safeguards  for  the  Turkish  Cypriot  minority.  Tur- 
key accepted  the  plan,  Greece  rejected  it  outright,  and  Makarios 
refused  to  consider  it  while  in  exile. 

Makarios  was  allowed  to  leave  the  Seychelles  in  April,  but  could 
not  return  to  Cyprus.  In  Athens  he  received  a  tremendous  wel- 
come. During  the  rest  of  the  year,  Grivas  kept  the  situation  boil- 
ing through  various  raids  and  attacks.  Makarios  also  went  once 
again  to  New  York  to  argue  his  case  before  the  UN.  Harding  re- 
tired to  be  replaced  by  Hugh  Foot. 


31 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

In  early  1958,  intercommunal  strife  became  severe  for  the  first 
time,  and  tension  mounted  between  the  governments  of  Greece 
and  Turkey.  Grivas  tried  to  enforce  an  island-wide  boycott  of  British 
goods  and  increased  the  level  of  sabotage  attacks.  In  June  1958, 
British  prime  minister  Harold  Macmillan  proposed  a  seven-year 
partnership  scheme  of  separate  communal  legislative  bodies  and 
separate  municipalities,  which  became  known  as  the  Macmillan 
Plan.  Greece  and  Greek  Cypriots  rejected  it,  calling  it  tantamount 
to  partition. 

The  Macmillan  Plan,  although  not  accepted,  led  to  discussions 
of  the  Cyprus  problem  between  representatives  of  Greece  and  Tur- 
key, beginning  in  December  1958.  Participants  for  the  first  time 
discussed  the  concept  of  an  independent  Cyprus,  i.e.,  neither  enosis 
nor  partition.  This  new  approach  was  stimulated  by  the  under- 
standing that  Makarios  was  willing  to  discuss  independence  in  ex- 
change for  abandonment  of  the  Macmillan  Plan.  Subsequent  talks 
between  the  foreign  ministers  of  Greece  and  Turkey,  in  Zurich  in 
February  1959,  yielded  a  compromise  agreement  supporting  in- 
dependence. Thus  were  laid  the  foundations  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus.  The  scene  then  shifted  to  London,  where  the  Greek  and 
Turkish  representatives  were  joined  by  representatives  of  the  Greek 
Cypriots,  the  Turkish  Cypriots,  and  the  British.  In  London 
Makarios  raised  certain  objections  to  the  agreements,  but,  failing 
to  get  Greek  backing,  he  accepted  the  position  papers.  The  Zurich- 
London  agreements,  which  were  ratified  by  the  official  participants 
of  the  London  Conference  and  became  the  basis  for  the  Cyprus 
constitution  of  1960,  were  the  Treaty  of  Establishment,  the  Treaty 
of  Guarantee,  and  the  Treaty  of  Alliance. 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus 

The  general  tone  of  the  agreements  was  one  of  compromise. 
Greek  Cypriots,  especially  members  of  organizations  such  as 
EOKA,  expressed  disappointment  because  enosis  had  not  been  at- 
tained. Turkish  Cypriots,  however,  welcomed  the  agreements  and 
set  aside  their  earlier  defensive  demand  for  partition.  According 
to  the  Treaty  of  Establishment,  Britain  retained  sovereignty  over 
about  256  square  kilometers,  which  became  the  Dhekelia  Sover- 
eign Base  Area,  to  the  northwest  of  Larnaca,  and  the  Akrotiri  Sover- 
eign Base  Area,  to  the  west  of  Limassol.  Britain  also  retained  certain 
access  and  communications  routes. 

According  to  constitutional  arrangements,  Cyprus  was  to  become 
an  independent  republic  with  a  Greek  Cypriot  president  and  a 
Turkish  Cypriot  vice  president;  a  council  of  ministers  with  a  ratio 
of  seven  Greeks  to  three  Turks  and  a  House  of  Representatives  of 


32 


Historical  Setting 


fifty  members,  also  with  a  seven-to-three  ratio,  were  to  be  separately 
elected  by  communal  balloting  on  a  universal  suffrage  basis.  The 
judicial  system  would  be  headed  by  a  Supreme  Constitutional 
Court,  composed  of  one  Greek  Cypriot  and  one  Turkish  Cypriot 
and  presided  over  by  a  contracted  judge  from  a  neutral  country. 
In  addition,  separate  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  Com- 
munal Chambers  were  provided  to  exercise  control  in  matters  of 
religion,  culture,  and  education.  The  entire  structure  of  govern- 
ment was  strongly  bicommunal  in  composition  and  function,  and 
thus  perpetuated  the  distinctiveness  and  separation  of  the  two  com- 
munities. 

The  aspirations  of  the  Greek  Cypriots,  for  which  they  had  fought 
during  the  emergency,  were  not  realized.  Cyprus  would  not  be  unit- 
ed with  Greece,  as  most  of  the  population  had  hoped,  but  neither 
would  it  be  partitioned,  which  many  had  feared.  The  unsatisfac- 
tory but  acceptable  alternative  was  independence.  The  Turkish 
Cypriot  community,  which  had  fared  very  well  at  the  bargaining 
table,  accepted  the  agreements  willingly.  The  provisions  of  the  con- 
stitution and  the  new  republic's  territorial  integrity  were  ensured 
by  Britain,  Greece,  and  Turkey  under  the  Treaty  of  Guarantee. 
The  Treaty  of  Alliance  gave  Greece  and  Turkey  the  rights  to  sta- 
tion military  forces  on  the  island  (950  and  650  men,  respectively). 
These  forces  were  to  be  separate  from  Cypriot  national  forces,  num- 
bering 2,000  men  in  a  six-to-four  ratio  of  Greek  Cypriots  to  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  (see  Armed  Forces,  ch.  5). 

Makarios,  accepting  independence  as  the  pragmatic  course, 
returned  to  Cyprus  on  March  1 ,  1959.  Grivas,  still  an  ardent  sup- 
porter of  enosis,  agreed  to  return  to  Greece  after  having  obtained 
amnesty  for  his  followers.  The  state  of  emergency  was  declared  over 
on  December  4,  1959.  Nine  days  later,  Makarios  was  elected  presi- 
dent, despite  opposition  from  right-wing  elements  who  claimed  that 
he  had  betrayed  enosis  and  from  AKEL  members  who  objected 
to  the  British  bases  and  the  stationing  of  Greek  and  Turkish  troops 
on  the  island.  On  the  same  day,  Fazil  Kiicuk,  leader  of  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  community,  was  elected  vice  president  without  oppo- 
sition. 

The  first  general  election  for  the  House  of  Representatives  took 
place  on  July  31,  1960.  Of  the  thirty-five  seats  allotted  to  Greek 
Cypriots,  thirty  were  won  by  supporters  of  Makarios  and  five  by 
AKEL  candidates.  The  fifteen  Turkish  Cypriot  seats  were  all  won 
by  Kiicuk  supporters.  The  constitution  became  effective  August 
16,  1960,  on  the  day  Cyprus  formally  shed  its  colonial  status  and 
became  a  republic.  One  month  later,  the  new  republic  became  a 
member  of  the  UN,  and  in  the  spring  of  1961  it  was  admitted  to 


33 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

membership  in  the  Commonwealth.  In  December  1961,  Cyprus 
became  a  member  of  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary)  and  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary). 

Independence  did  not  ensure  peace.  Serious  problems  concern- 
ing the  working  and  interpretation  of  the  constitutional  system 
appeared  immediately.  These  problems  reflected  the  sharp  bi- 
communal  division  in  the  constitution  and  the  historical  and  con- 
tinuing distrust  between  the  two  communities.  Turkish  Cypriots, 
after  eight  decades  of  passivity  under  the  British,  had  become  a 
political  entity.  In  the  words  of  political  scientist  Nancy  Crawshaw, 
"Turkish  Cypriot  nationalism,  barely  perceptible  under  British 
rule,  came  to  equal  that  of  the  Greeks  in  fanaticism."  One  major 
point  of  contention  concerned  the  composition  of  units  under  the 
six-to-four  ratio  decreed  for  the  Cypriot  army.  Makarios  wanted 
complete  integration;  Kuciik  favored  segregated  companies.  On 
October  20,  1961 ,  Kuciik  used  his  constitutional  veto  power  as  vice 
president  to  halt  the  development  of  an  integrated  force.  Makarios 
then  stated  that  the  country  could  not  afford  an  army  anyway;  plan- 
ning and  development  of  the  national  army  ceased.  Other  problems 
developed  in  the  application  of  the  seven-to-three  ratio  of  employ- 
ment in  government  agencies. 

Underground  organizations  of  both  communities  revived  dur- 
ing 1961  and  1962.  EOKA  and  the  TMT  began  training  again, 
smuggling  weapons  in  from  Greece  and  Turkey,  and  working  close- 
ly with  national  military  contingents  from  Greece  and  Turkey  that 
were  stationed  on  the  island  in  accordance  with  the  Treaty  of  Alli- 
ance. Friction  increased  in  1962  regarding  the  status  of  munici- 
palities. Each  side  accused  the  other  of  constitutional  infractions, 
and  the  Supreme  Constitutional  Court  was  asked  to  rule  on  munic- 
ipalities and  taxes.  The  court's  decisions  were  unsatisfactory  to  both 
sides,  and  an  impasse  was  reached.  Government  under  the  terms 
of  the  1960  constitution  had  come  to  appear  impossible  to  many 
Cypriots. 

Some  Greek  Cypriots  believed  the  constitutional  impasse  could 
be  ended  through  bold  action.  Accordingly,  a  plan  of  action — the 
Akritas  Plan — was  drawn  up  sometime  in  1963  by  the  Greek  Cypri- 
ot minister  of  interior,  a  close  associate  of  Archbishop  Makarios. 
The  plan's  course  of  action  began  with  persuading  the  international 
community  that  concessions  made  to  the  Turkish  Cypriots  were 
too  extensive  and  that  the  constitution  had  to  be  reformed  if  the 
island  were  to  have  a  functioning  government.  World  opinion  had 
to  be  convinced  that  the  smaller  community  had  nothing  to  fear 
from  constitutional  amendments  that  gave  Greek  Cypriots  politi- 
cal dominance.  Another  of  the  plan's  goals  was  the  revocation  of 


34 


Historical  Setting 


the  Treaty  of  Guarantee  and  the  Treaty  of  Alliance.  If  these  aims 
were  realized,  enosis  would  become  possible.  If  Turkish  Cypriots 
refused  to  accept  these  changes  and  attempted  to  block  them  by 
force,  the  plan  foresaw  their  violent  subjugation  "in  a  day  or  two" 
before  foreign  powers  could  intervene. 

On  November  30,  1963,  Makarios  advanced  a  thirteen-point 
proposal  designed,  in  his  view,  to  eliminate  impediments  to  the 
functioning  of  the  government.  The  thirteen  points  involved  con- 
stitutional revisions,  including  the  abandonment  of  the  veto  pow- 
er by  both  the  president  and  the  vice  president,  an  idea  that  certainly 
would  have  been  rejected  by  the  Turkish  Cypriots,  who  thought 
of  the  veto  as  a  form  of  life  insurance  for  the  minority  community. 
Kiicuk  asked  for  time  to  consider  the  proposal  and  promised  to 
respond  to  it  by  the  end  of  December.  Turkey  rejected  it  on  De- 
cember 16,  declaring  the  proposal  an  attempt  to  undermine  the 
constitution. 

Intercommunal  Violence 

The  atmosphere  on  the  island  was  tense.  On  December  21 ,  1963, 
serious  violence  erupted  in  Nicosia  when  a  Greek  Cypriot  police 
patrol,  ostensibly  checking  identification  documents,  stopped  a 
Turkish  Cypriot  couple  on  the  edge  of  the  Turkish  quarter.  A  hostile 
crowd  gathered,  shots  were  fired,  and  two  Turkish  Cypriots  were 
killed.  As  the  news  spread,  members  of  the  underground  orga- 
nizations began  firing  and  taking  hostages.  North  of  Nicosia, 
Turkish  forces  occupied  a  strong  position  at  St.  Hilarion  Castle, 
dominating  the  road  to  Kyrenia  on  the  northern  coast.  The  road 
became  a  principal  combat  area  as  both  sides  fought  to  control  it. 
Much  intercommunal  fighting  occurred  in  Nicosia  along  the  line 
separating  the  Greek  and  Turkish  quarters  of  the  city  (known  later 
as  the  Green  Line).  Turkish  Cypriots  were  not  concentrated  in  one 
area,  but  lived  throughout  the  island,  making  their  position  precar- 
ious. Vice  President  Kiicuk  and  Turkish  Cypriot  ministers  and 
members  of  the  House  of  Representatives  ceased  participating  in 
the  government. 

In  January  1964,  after  an  inconclusive  conference  in  London 
among  representatives  of  Britain,  Greece,  Turkey,  and  the  two 
Cypriot  communities,  UN  Secretary  General  U  Thant,  at  the  re- 
quest of  the  Cyprus  government,  sent  a  special  representative  to 
the  island.  After  receiving  a  firsthand  report  in  February,  the  Secu- 
rity Council  authorized  a  peace-keeping  force  under  the  direction 
of  the  secretary  general.  Advance  units  reached  Cyprus  in  March, 
and  by  May  the  United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus 
(UNFICYP)  totaled  about  6,500  troops.  Originally  authorized  for 


35 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

a  three-month  period,  the  force,  at  decreased  strength,  was  still 
in  position  in  the  early  1990s. 

Severe  intercommunal  fighting  occurred  in  March  and  April 
1964.  When  the  worst  of  the  fighting  was  over,  Turkish  Cypriots — 
sometimes  of  their  own  volition  and  at  other  times  forced  by  the 
TMT — began  moving  from  isolated  rural  areas  and  mixed  villages 
into  enclaves.  Before  long,  a  substantial  portion  of  the  island's  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  population  was  crowded  into  the  Turkish  quarter  of 
Nicosia  in  tents  and  hastily  constructed  shacks.  Slum  conditions 
resulted  from  the  serious  overcrowding.  All  necessities  as  well  as 
utilities  had  to  be  brought  in  through  the  Greek  Cypriot  lines.  Many 
Turkish  Cypriots  who  had  not  moved  into  Nicosia  gave  up  their 
land  and  houses  for  the  security  of  other  enclaves. 

In  June  1964,  the  House  of  Representatives,  functioning  with 
only  its  Greek  Cypriot  members,  passed  a  bill  establishing  the  Na- 
tional Guard,  in  which  all  Cypriot  males  between  the  ages  of  eigh- 
teen and  fifty-nine  were  liable  to  compulsory  service.  The  right 
of  Cypriots  to  bear  arms  was  then  limited  to  this  National  Guard 
and  to  the  police.  Invited  by  Makarios,  General  Grivas  returned 
to  Cyprus  in  June  to  assume  command  of  the  National  Guard; 
the  purpose  of  the  new  law  was  to  curb  the  proliferation  of  Greek 
Cypriot  irregular  bands  and  bring  them  under  control  in  an  or- 
ganization commanded  by  the  prestigious  Grivas.  Turks  and  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  meanwhile  charged  that  large  numbers  of  Greek  regular 
troops  were  being  clandestinely  infiltrated  into  the  island  to  lend 
professionalism  to  the  National  Guard.  Turkey  began  military 
preparations  for  an  invasion  of  the  island.  A  brutally  frank  warn- 
ing from  United  States  president  Lyndon  B.  Johnson  to  Prime 
Minister  Ismet  Inomi  caused  the  Turks  to  call  off  the  invasion. 
In  August,  however,  Turkish  jets  attacked  Greek  Cypriot  forces 
besieging  Turkish  Cypriot  villages  on  the  northwestern  coast  near 
Kokkina. 

In  July  veteran  United  States  diplomat  Dean  Acheson  met  with 
Greek  and  Turkish  representatives  in  Geneva.  From  this  meeting 
emerged  what  became  known  as  the  Acheson  Plan,  according  to 
which  Greek  Cypriots  would  have  enosis  and  Greece  was  to  award 
the  Aegean  island  of  Kastelorrizon  to  Turkey  and  compensate  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  wishing  to  emigrate.  Secure  Turkish  enclaves  and  a 
Turkish  sovereign  military  base  area  were  to  be  provided  on 
Cyprus.  Makarios  rejected  the  plan  because  it  called  for  what  he 
saw  as  a  modified  form  of  partition. 

Throughout  1964  and  later,  President  Makarios  and  the  Greek 
Cypriot  leadership  adopted  the  view  that  the  establishment  of 
UNFICYP  by  the  UN  Security  Council  had  set  aside  the  rights  of 


36 


Historical  Setting 


intervention  granted  to  the  guarantor  powers — Britain,  Greece, 
and  Turkey — by  the  Treaty  of  Guarantee.  The  Turkish  leader- 
ship, on  the  other  hand,  contended  that  the  Security  Council  ac- 
tion had  reinforced  the  provisions  of  the  treaty.  These  diametrically 
opposed  views  illustrated  the  basic  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish 
Cypriot  positions;  the  former  holding  that  the  constitution  and  the 
other  provisions  of  the  treaties  were  flexible  and  subject  to  change 
under  changing  conditions,  and  the  latter,  that  they  were  fixed 
agreements,  not  subject  to  change. 

Grivas  and  the  National  Guard  reacted  to  Turkish  pressure  by 
initiating  patrols  into  the  Turkish  Cypriot  enclaves.  Patrols  sur- 
rounded two  villages,  Ayios  Theodhoros  and  Kophinou,  about 
twenty-five  kilometers  southwest  of  Larnaca,  and  began  sending 
in  heavily  armed  patrols.  Fighting  broke  out,  and  by  the  time  the 
Guard  withdrew,  twenty-six  Turkish  Cypriots  had  been  killed.  Tur- 
key issued  an  ultimatum  and  threatened  to  intervene  in  force  to 
protect  Turkish  Cypriots.  To  back  up  their  demands,  the  Turks 
massed  troops  on  the  Thracian  border  separating  Greece  and  Tur- 
key and  began  assembling  an  amphibious  invasion  force.  The  ul- 
timatum's conditions  included  the  expulsion  of  Grivas  from  Cyprus, 
removal  of  Greek  troops  from  Cyprus,  payment  of  indemnity  for 
the  casualties  at  Ayios  Theodhoros  and  Kophinou,  cessation  of  pres- 
sure on  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community,  and  the  disbanding  of 
the  National  Guard. 

Grivas  resigned  as  commander  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  forces  on 
November  20,  1967,  and  left  the  island,  but  the  Turks  did  not 
reduce  their  readiness  posture,  and  the  dangerous  situation  of  two 
NATO  nations  on  the  threshold  of  war  with  each  other  continued. 
President  Johnson  dispatched  Cyrus  R.  Vance  as  his  special  en- 
voy to  Turkey,  Greece,  and  Cyprus.  Vance  arrived  in  Ankara  in 
late  November  and  began  ten  days  of  negotiations  that  defused  the 
situation.  Greece  agreed  to  withdraw  its  forces  on  Cyprus  except 
for  the  contingent  allowed  by  the  1960  treaties,  provided  that  Tur- 
key did  the  same  and  also  dismounted  its  invasion  force.  Turkey 
agreed,  and  the  crisis  passed.  During  December  1967  and  early 
January  1968,  about  10,000  Greek  troops  were  withdrawn. 
Makarios  did  not  disband  the  National  Guard,  however,  some- 
thing he  came  to  regret  when  it  rebelled  against  him  in  1974. 

Political  Developments  after  the  Crisis  of  1967 

Seizing  the  opportune  moment  after  the  crisis  had  ended,  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  leaders,  in  late  December  1967,  announced  the  es- 
tablishment of  a  '  'transitional  administration"  to  govern  their 


37 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


community's  affairs  ''until  such  time  as  the  provisions  of  the  Con- 
stitution of  1960  have  been  fully  implemented. ' '  The  body's  presi- 
dent was  Fazil  Kiicuk,  vice  president  of  the  republic;  the  body's 
vice  president  was  Rauf  Denkta§,  president  of  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot  Communal  Chamber.  Nineteen  governing  articles,  called  the 
Basic  Principles,  were  announced,  and  the  provisional  adminis- 
tration organized  itself  along  lines  that  were  similar  to  a  cabinet. 
The  provisional  administration  also  formed  a  legislative  assembly 
composed  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  members-in- absentia  of  the  repub- 
lic's  House  of  Representatives  and  the  members  of  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  Communal  Chamber.  The  provisional  administration  did 
not  state  that  the  Communal  Chamber  was  being  abolished.  Nor 
did  it  seek  recognition  as  a  government.  Such  actions  would  have 
been  contrary  to  the  provisions  of  the  constitution  and  the  Zurich- 
London  agreements,  and  the  Turkish  Cypriots  as  well  as  the  Turks 
scrupulously  avoided  any  such  abrogation.  The  Greek  Cypriots 
immediately  concluded  that  the  formation  of  governing  bodies  was 
in  preparation  for  partition.  U  Thant  was  also  critical  of  the  new 
organizations. 

President  Makarios,  seeking  a  fresh  mandate  from  his  constit- 
uency, announced  in  January  1968  that  elections  would  be  held 
during  February.  Kiicuk,  determined  to  adhere  to  the  constitu- 
tion, then  announced  that  elections  for  vice  president  would  also 
be  held.  Elections,  which  the  Greek  Cypriot  government  considered 
invalid,  were  subsequendy  held  in  the  Turkish  Cypriot  communi- 
ty; Kiicuk  was  returned  to  office  unopposed.  Two  weeks  later, 
Makarios  received  220,911  votes  (about  96  percent),  and  his  op- 
ponent, Takis  Evdokas,  running  on  a  straight  enosis  platform, 
received  8,577  votes.  Even  though  there  were  16,215  abstentions, 
Makarios 's  overwhelming  victory  was  seen  as  a  massive  endorse- 
ment of  his  personal  leadership  and  of  an  independent  Cyprus.  At 
his  investiture,  the  president  stated  that  the  Cyprus  problem  could 
not  be  solved  by  force,  but  had  to  be  worked  out  within  the  frame- 
work of  the  UN.  He  also  said  that  he  and  his  followers  wanted  to 
live  peacefully  in  a  unitary  state  where  all  citizens  enjoyed  equal 
rights.  Some  Cypriots  opposed  Makarios 's  conciliatory  stance,  and 
there  would  be  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  assassinate  him  in  1970. 

In  mid- 1968  intercommunal  talks  under  UN  auspices  began  in 
Beirut.  Glafkos  Clerides,  president  of  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives, and  Rauf  Denkta§  were  involved  in  the  first  stages  of  these 
talks,  which  lasted  until  1974.  Although  many  points  of  agreement 
were  arrived  at,  no  lasting  agreements  were  reached.  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot proposals  emphasized  the  importance  of  the  local  government 
of  each  ethnic  community  at  the  expense  of  the  central  government, 


38 


Archbishop  Makarios  III,  first  president  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


39 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


whereas  the  Greek  Cypriot  negotiating  teams  stressed  the 
dominance  of  the  central  authorities  over  local  administration. 

In  the  parliamentary  elections  that  took  place  on  July  5,  1970, 
fifteen  seats  went  to  the  Unified  Democratic  Party  (Eniaion),  nine 
to  AKEL,  seven  to  the  Progressive  Coalition,  two  to  a  socialist  coa- 
lition, and  two  to  the  Independents.  The  enosis  opposition  did  not 
capture  any  seats.  Eniaion,  led  by  Clerides  and  based  on  an  ur- 
ban constituency,  was  a  moderate  party  of  the  right  that  generally 
supported  Makarios.  The  Progressive  Coalition  had  an  ideologi- 
cal base  almost  the  same  as  Eniaion' s,  but  was  based  in  the  rural 
areas.  The  socialist  group  was  led  by  Vassos  Lyssarides,  personal 
physician  to  Makarios;  its  two  seats  in  the  House  of  Representa- 
tives did  not  reflect  its  significant  influence  in  Cypriot  affairs  and 
the  personal  power  of  its  leader.  The  Independents  were  a  left-wing 
noncommunist  group  similar  to  EDEK  but  lacking  its  dynamic 
leadership.  The  fifteen  seats  reserved  for  Turkish  Cypriots  went 
to  followers  of  Denkta§. 

In  the  early  1970s,  Cyprus  was  in  fact  a  partitioned  country. 
Makarios  was  the  president  of  the  republic,  but  his  authority  did 
not  extend  into  the  Turkish  enclaves.  The  House  of  Representa- 
tives sat  as  the  legislature,  but  only  the  thirty-five  Greek  Cypriot 
seats  were  functioning  as  part  of  a  central  government.  De  facto, 
the  partition  sought  for  years  by  Turks  and  Turkish  Cypriots  ex- 
isted, but  intercommunal  strife  had  not  ended. 

In  the  summer  of  1971,  tension  built  up  between  the  two  com- 
munities, and  incidents  became  more  numerous.  Sometime  in  the 
late  summer  or  early  fall,  Grivas  (who  had  attacked  Makarios  as 
a  traitor  in  an  Athens  newspaper)  returned  secretly  to  the  island 
and  began  to  rebuild  his  guerrilla  organization,  which  became 
known  as  the  National  Organization  of  Cypriot  Fighters  (Ethniki 
Organosis  Kyprion  Agoniston  B — EOKA  B).  Three  new  news- 
papers advocating  enosis  were  also  established  at  the  same  time. 
All  of  these  activities  were  funded  by  the  military  junta  that  con- 
trolled Greece.  The  junta  probably  would  have  agreed  to  some  form 
of  partition  similar  to  the  Acheson  Plan  to  settle  the  Cyprus  ques- 
tion, but  at  the  time  the  overthrow  of  Makarios  was  the  primary 
objective,  and  the  junta  backed  Grivas  toward  that  end.  From  hid- 
ing, Grivas  directed  terrorist  attacks  and  propaganda  assaults  that 
shook  the  Makarios  government,  but  the  president  remained  a 
powerful,  popular  leader. 

In  January  1972,  a  new  crisis  rekindled  intercommunal  tensions 
when  an  Athens  newspaper  reported  that  the  Makarios  government 
had  received  a  shipment  of  Czechoslovakian  arms.  The  guns  were 
intended  for  Makarios' s  own  elite  guard;  the  Greek  government, 


40 


Historical  Setting 


hoping  to  overthrow  Makarios  through  Grivas,  EOKA  B,  and  the 
National  Guard,  objected  to  the  import  of  the  arms.  The  authori- 
ties in  Ankara  were  more  than  willing  to  join  Athens  in  such  a  pro- 
test, and  both  governments  demanded  that  the  Czechoslovakian 
munitions  be  turned  over  to  UNFICYP.  Makarios  was  eventual- 
ly forced  to  comply. 

Relations  between  Nicosia  and  Athens  were  at  such  a  low  ebb 
that  the  colonels  of  the  Greek  junta,  recognizing  that  they  had 
Makarios  in  a  perilous  position,  issued  an  ultimatum  for  him  to 
reform  his  government  and  rid  it  of  ministers  who  had  been  criti- 
cal of  the  junta.  The  colonels,  however,  had  not  reckoned  with  the 
phenomenal  popularity  of  the  archbishop,  and  once  again  mass 
demonstrations  proved  that  Makarios  had  the  people  behind  him. 
In  the  end,  however,  Makarios  bowed  to  Greek  pressure  and  reshuf- 
fled the  cabinet. 

Working  against  Makarios  was  the  fact  that  most  officers  of  the 
Cypriot  National  Guard  were  Greek  regulars  who  supported  the 
junta  and  its  desire  to  remove  him  from  office  and  achieve  some 
degree  of  enosis.  Grivas  was  also  a  threat  to  the  archbishop.  He 
remained  powerful  and  to  some  extent  was  independent  of  the  junta 
that  had  permitted  his  return  to  Cyprus.  Whereas  the  Greek  colonels 
were  at  times  prepared  to  make  a  deal  with  Turkey  about  Cyprus, 
Grivas  was  ferociously  opposed  to  any  arrangement  that  did  not 
lead  to  complete  enosis. 

In  the  spring  of  1972,  Makarios  faced  an  attack  from  another 
quarter.  The  three  bishops  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus  demanded  that 
he  resign  as  president  because  his  temporal  duties  violated  canon 
law.  Moving  astutely,  Markarios  foiled  the  three  bishops  and  had 
them  defrocked  in  the  summer  of  1973.  Before  choosing  their 
replacements,  he  increased  the  number  of  bishoprics  to  five,  thereby 
reducing  the  power  of  individual  bishops. 

Grivas  and  his  one-track  pursuit  of  enosis  through  terrorism  had 
become  an  embarrassment  to  the  Greek  Cypriot  government,  as 
well  as  to  the  Greek  government  that  had  sponsored  his  return  to 
the  island.  His  fame  and  popularity  in  both  countries,  however, 
prevented  his  removal.  That  problem  was  solved  on  January  27, 
1974,  when  the  general  died  of  a  heart  attack.  Makarios  granted 
his  followers  an  amnesty,  hoping  that  EOKA  B  would  disappear 
after  the  death  of  its  leader.  Terrorism  continued,  however,  and 
the  100,000  mourners  who  attended  Grivas 's  funeral  indicated  the 
enduring  popularity  of  his  political  aims. 

The  Greek  Coup  and  the  Turkish  Invasion 

A  coup  d'etat  in  Athens  in  November  1973  had  made  Brigadier 


41 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

General  Dimitrios  Ioannides  leader  of  the  junta.  Rigidly  anticom- 
munist,  Ioannides  had  served  on  Cyprus  in  the  1960s  with  the  Na- 
tional Guard.  His  experiences  convinced  him  that  Makarios  should 
be  removed  from  office  because  of  domestic  leftist  support  and  his 
visits  to  communist  capitals.  During  the  spring  of  1974,  Cypriot 
intelligence  found  evidence  that  EOKA  B  was  planning  a  coup  and 
was  being  supplied,  controlled,  and  funded  by  the  military  govern- 
ment in  Athens.  EOKA  B  was  banned,  but  its  operations  continued 
underground.  Early  in  July,  Makarios  wrote  to  the  president  of 
Greece  demanding  that  the  remaining  650  Greek  officers  assigned 
to  the  National  Guard  be  withdrawn.  He  also  accused  the  junta 
of  plotting  against  his  life  and  against  the  government  of  Cyprus. 
Makarios  sent  his  letter  (which  was  released  to  the  public)  to  the 
Greek  president  on  July  2,  1974;  the  reply  came  thirteen  days  later, 
not  in  the  form  of  a  letter  but  in  an  order  from  Athens  to  the  Cypriot 
National  Guard  to  overthrow  its  commander  in  chief  and  take  con- 
trol of  the  island. 

Makarios  narrowly  escaped  death  in  the  attack  by  the  Greek- 
led  National  Guard.  He  fled  the  presidential  palace  and  went  to 
Paphos.  A  British  helicopter  took  him  to  the  Sovereign  Base  Area 
at  Akrotiri,  from  where  he  went  to  London.  Several  days  later, 
Makarios  addressed  a  meeting  of  the  UN  Security  Council,  where 
he  was  accepted  as  the  legal  president  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus. 

In  the  meantime,  the  notorious  EOKA  terrorist  Nicos  Samp- 
son was  declared  provisional  president  of  the  new  government.  It 
was  obvious  to  Ankara  that  Athens  was  behind  the  coup,  and  major 
elements  of  the  Turkish  armed  forces  went  on  alert.  Turkey  had 
made  similar  moves  in  1964  and  1967,  but  had  not  invaded.  At 
the  same  time,  Turkish  prime  minister  Biilent  Ecevit  flew  to  Lon- 
don to  elicit  British  aid  in  a  joint  effort  in  Cyprus,  as  called  for 
in  the  1959  Treaty  of  Guarantee,  but  the  British  were  either  un- 
willing or  unprepared  and  declined  to  take  action  as  a  guarantor 
power.  The  United  States  took  no  action  to  bolster  the  Makarios 
government,  but  Joseph  J.  Sisco,  Under  Secretary  of  State  for  Po- 
litical Affairs,  went  to  London  and  the  eastern  Mediterranean  to 
stave  off  the  impending  Turkish  invasion  and  the  war  between 
Greece  and  Turkey  that  might  follow.  The  Turks  demanded 
removal  of  Nicos  Sampson  and  the  Greek  officers  from  the  Na- 
tional Guard  and  a  binding  guarantee  of  Cypriot  independence. 
Sampson,  of  course,  was  expendable  to  the  Athens  regime,  but  Sisco 
could  get  an  agreement  only  to  reassign  the  650  Greek  officers. 

As  Sisco  negotiated  in  Athens,  Turkish  invasion  ships  were  al- 
ready at  sea.  A  last-minute  reversal  might  have  been  possible  had 
the  Greeks  made  concessions,  but  they  did  not.  The  intervention 


42 


Historical  Setting 


began  early  on  July  20,  1974.  Three  days  later,  the  Greek  junta 
collapsed  in  Athens,  Sampson  resigned  in  Nicosia,  and  the  threat 
of  war  between  NATO  allies  was  over.  The  Turkish  army,  however, 
remained  on  Cyprus. 

Constantinos  Karamanlis,  in  self-imposed  exile  in  France  since 
1963,  was  called  back  to  head  the  Greek  government  once  more. 
Clerides  was  sworn  in  as  acting  president  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus, 
and  the  foreign  ministers  of  the  guarantor  powers  met  in  Geneva 
on  July  25  to  discuss  the  military  situation  on  the  island.  Prime 
Minister  Ecevit  publicly  welcomed  the  change  of  government  in 
Greece  and  seemed  genuinely  interested  in  eliminating  the  tensions 
that  had  brought  the  two  countries  so  close  to  war.  Nevertheless, 
during  the  truce  that  was  arranged,  Turkish  forces  continued  to 
take  territory,  to  improve  their  positions,  and  to  build  up  their  sup- 
plies of  war  materiel. 

A  second  conference  in  Geneva  began  on  August  10,  with  Cler- 
ides and  Denkta§  as  the  Cypriot  representatives.  Denkta§  proposed 
a  bizonal  federation,  with  Turkish  Cypriots  controlling  34  percent 
of  the  island.  When  this  proposal  was  rejected,  the  Turkish  for- 
eign minister  proposed  a  Turkish  Cypriot  zone  in  the  northern  part 
of  the  island  and  five  Turkish  Cypriot  enclaves  elsewhere,  all  of 
which  would  amount  once  again  to  34  percent  of  the  island's  area. 
Clerides  asked  for  a  recess  of  thirty-six  to  forty-eight  hours  to  con- 
sult with  the  government  in  Nicosia  and  with  Makarios  in  Lon- 
don. His  request  was  refused,  and  early  on  August  14  the  second 
phase  of  the  Turkish  intervention  began.  Two  days  later,  after  hav- 
ing seized  37  percent  of  the  island  above  what  the  Turks  called 
the  "Atilla  Line,"  the  line  that  ran  from  Morphou  Bay  in  the  north- 
west to  Famagusta  (Gazimagusa)  in  the  east,  the  Turks  ordered 
a  cease-fire. 

Developments  since  1974 

The  de  facto  partition  of  Cyprus  resulting  from  the  Turkish  in- 
vasion, or  intervention,  as  the  Turks  preferred  to  call  their  mili- 
tary action,  caused  much  suffering  in  addition  to  leaving  thousands 
dead,  many  of  whom  were  unaccounted  for  even  years  later.  An 
estimated  one-third  of  the  population  of  each  ethnic  community 
had  to  flee  their  homes.  The  island's  economy  was  devastated. 

Efforts  were  undertaken  immediately  to  remedy  the  effects  of 
the  catastrophe.  Intensive  government  economic  planning  and  in- 
tervention on  both  sides  of  the  island  soon  improved  living  stan- 
dards and  allowed  the  construction  of  housing  for  refugees.  Both 
communities  benefited  gready  from  the  expansion  of  the  tourist 
industry,  which  brought  millions  of  foreign  visitors  to  the  island 


43 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

during  the  1980s.  The  economic  success  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 
was  significant  enough  to  seem  almost  miraculous.  Within  just  a 
few  years,  the  refugees  had  housing  and  were  integrated  into  the 
bustling  economy,  and  Greek  Cypriots  enjoyed  a  West  European 
standard  of  living.  Turkish  Cypriots  did  not  do  as  well,  but,  working 
against  an  international  embargo  imposed  by  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  and  benefiting  from  extensive  Turkish  aid,  they  managed 
to  ensure  a  decent  standard  of  living  for  all  members  of  their 
community — a  standard  of  living,  in  fact,  that  was  higher  than  that 
of  Turkey.  Both  communities  established  government  agencies  to 
provide  public  assistance  to  those  who  needed  it  and  built  modern 
education  systems  extending  to  the  university  level. 

Both  communities  soon  developed  political  systems  on  the  Eu- 
ropean model,  with  parties  representing  mainstream  political  opin- 
ion from  right  to  the  left.  Greek  Cypriots  had  two  older  parties 
dating  from  before  1970,  the  Progressive  Party  of  the  Working  Peo- 
ple (Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou  Laou — AKEL)  and  the 
United  Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus  (Eniea  Dimokratiki  Enosis 
Kyprou— EDEK),  generally  called  the  Socialist  Party  EDEK  (So- 
cialistiko  Komma  EDEK),  and  some  formed  after  the  events  of 
1974.  The  two  most  important  of  these  newer  parties  were  the 
Democratic  Party  (Dimokratiko  Komma — DIKO)  and  the 
Democratic  Rally  (Dimokratikos  Synagermos — DISY).  Both  of 
these  parties  were  on  the  right,  with  DIKO  headed  by  Spyros  Kypri- 
anou,  who  replaced  Makarios  as  president  after  the  latter' s  death 
in  1977,  and  DISY  led  by  veteran  politician  Glafkos  Clerides. 
Parliamentary  elections  held  in  1976,  1981,  and  1985  resulted  in 
stable  patterns  in  the  House  of  Representatives  that  permitted 
coalition-building  and  a  serious  opposition  to  the  government  in 
power  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  Kyprianou  was  reelected  president 
in  1983,  but  lost  in  1988  to  George  Vassiliou,  a  successful  business- 
man and  a  political  outsider  who  had  the  support  of  AKEL  and 
EDEK.  Vassiliou  won  election  by  promising  to  bring  a  new  spirit 
to  politics  and  break  the  deadlocked  negotiations  to  end  the  island's 
division. 

The  Turkish  Cypriots'  progress  to  parliamentary  democracy  was 
not  as  easy.  First  they  had  to  build  a  new  state.  In  1975  the  *  'Turk- 
ish Federated  State  of  Cyprus"  was  proclaimed.  In  1983,  by  means 
of  a  unilateral  declaration  of  independence,  Turkish  Cypriots 
created  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC"), 
but  by  the  early  1990s,  only  Turkey  had  recognized  it  as  a  nation. 
Rauf  Denkta§,  who  had  been  the  political  leader  of  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  community  since  the  1970s,  was  elected  president  of  the 
"TRNC."  A  number  of  political  parties  were  active  in  the  area 


44 


Historical  Setting 


occupied  by  the  "TRNC."  They  included  both  left-  and  right- 
wing  parties,  which  both  supported  and  opposed  the  settlement  of 
mainland  Turks  on  the  island  and  the  politics  of  partition.  The 
largest  party,  the  National  Unity  Party  (Ulusal  Birlik  Partisi — 
UBP),  was  founded  and  controlled  by  Denkta§  (see  table  4,  Ap- 
pendix). The  UBP  supported  a  resolutely  separatist  stance.  The 
second  party  of  the  4 'TRNC,"  the  Communal  Liberation  Party 
(Toplumcu  Kurtulu§  Partisi — TKP)  advocated  closer  relations  with 
the  Greek  Cypriot  community.  The  left-wing  Republican  Turkish 
Party  (Cumhuriyetci  Turk  Partisi — CTP)  was  even  more  forthright 
in  its  opposition  to  the  government's  policy  of  restricted  relations 
with  the  Republic  of  Cyprus. 

Negotiations  began  in  the  mid-1970s  to  end  the  de  facto  parti- 
tion and  to  bring  the  two  communities  together  again.  Two  major 
compromises  on  the  part  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  occurred  in 
the  second  half  of  the  1970s.  First,  in  1977,  four  guidelines  for  fu- 
ture intercommunal  talks  were  accepted  by  both  communities;  their 
thrust  was  that  Cyprus  would  become  a  bicommunal  federal  repub- 
lic, a  departure  from  the  terms  of  the  constitution  of  1960.  Second, 
the  ten-point  agreement  of  1979,  achieved  at  a  meeting  between 
Kyprianou  and  Denkta§,  worked  out  policies  to  ease  further  inter- 
communal talks. 

A  possible  settlement  was  missed  in  1985  when  Kyprianou  re- 
fused to  sign  a  recently  worked-out  accord,  fearing  it  conceded  too 
much  to  the  other  side.  The  stalemate  continued  up  to  the  election 
of  Vassiliou  in  1988.  Agreement  on  some  major  points  had  slowly 
evolved,  but  the  practical  steps  to  realize  an  actual  settlement  were 
still  not  attainable.  Differences  in  the  two  communities'  view  of 
the  desirable  mixture  of  federation  or  confederation  and  the  pow- 
ers of  a  central  government  seemed  unbridgeable. 

*    *  * 

The  four- volume  work  by  the  British  historian  George  Hill,  The 
History  of  Cyprus,  although  completed  in  1952,  is  still  considered 
the  most  definitive  history  of  the  island.  Stavros  Panteli's  A  New 
History  of  Cyprus  covers  events  up  to  the  mid-1980s.  H.D.  Purcell's 
Cyprus,  available  in  many  libraries,  is  a  balanced  but  dated  survey 
of  Cypriot  history.  Footprints  in  Cyprus,  edited  by  Sir  David  Hunt, 
is  also  a  good  introduction  to  the  island's  past. 

Cyprus:  Nationalism  and  International  Politics  by  Michael  Attalides 
is  a  thoughtful  analysis  of  the  background  and  development  of 
Cypriot  nationalism.  The  Cyprus  Revolt  by  Nancy  Crawshaw  is  a 
detailed  study  of  the  struggle  against  British  rule.  Also  valuable 


45 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


is  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  the  Cyprus  Republic  by  Kyriacos  C.  Markides, 
which  covers  the  period  of  independence  and  events  after  the  Turk- 
ish invasion  of  1974.  Makarios:  A  Biography  by  Stanley  Mayes  is 
a  sympathetic  yet  objective  portrait  of  the  republic's  first  president. 
Pierre  Oberling's  The  Road  to  Bellapais  presents  a  Turkish  Cypriot 
perspective  on  the  island's  recent  history.  John  Reddaway,  a  former 
British  colonial  official  in  Cyprus,  examines  many  of  the  controver- 
sies surrounding  recent  history  in  Burdened  with  Cyprus.  Parker  T. 
Hart's  Two  NATO  Allies  at  the  Threshold  of  War  offers  a  first-hand 
American  account  of  diplomatic  efforts  to  defuse  the  crisis  of  1967. 
A  highly  controversial  account  of  the  international  background  of 
the  events  of  1974  is  Christopher  Hitchens's  Cyprus.  (For  further 
information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


46 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Mosque  of  Lala  Mustafa  Pasha  (once  the  Cathedral  of  Saint  Nicholas), 
built  by  the  Lusignans,  Famagusta  (Gazimagusa) 


CYPRUS  WAS  BITTERLY  DIVIDED  at  the  beginning  of  the 
1990s.  The  island's  9,200  square  kilometers  encompassed  two 
separate  societies:  one  Greek  Cypriot  and  the  other  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot.  Until  1974  the  two  peoples  had  lived  side  by  side  throughout 
the  island.  Although  they  had  kept  their  separate  languages  and 
religions,  they  had  become  in  many  respects  similar,  most  of  the 
two  peoples  being  small  farmers  or  peasants.  Relations  were  gener- 
ally harmonious,  if  reserved,  during  the  four  centuries  they  shared 
the  island. 

The  rise  of  Greek  Cypriot  nationalism,  most  clearly  demonstrated 
in  the  ever-increasing  strength  of  the  dream  of  enosis — the  unifi- 
cation of  Cyprus  with  the  Greek  motherland — engendered  a  Turk- 
ish reaction,  the  doctrine  of  taksim,  or  partition.  The  Greek  and 
Turkish  Cypriot  communities  became  estranged  within  a  single 
generation.  The  Greek-backed  coup  of  1974  resulted  in  a  Turkish 
invasion  and  the  de  facto  partition  of  the  island.  Afterward,  the 
two  communities  lived  virtually  without  contact.  Greek  and  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  societies  appeared  relatively  successful  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  1990s,  but  their  centuries-long  intercourse  was  ended. 

Republic  of  Cyprus 

The  Turkish  invasion  of  1974  was  a  calamity,  but  Greek  Cypri- 
ot society  was  able  to  overcome  its  effects.  The  economy  of  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus  quickly  recovered,  and  went  on  to  flourish  into 
the  early  1990s.  Greek  Cypriot  society  also  withstood  the  loss  of 
homeland  and  broken  social  relations.  Greek  Cypriots  built  shelters 
and  found  work  for  the  180,000  displaced  people  who  had  fled  their 
homes  and  villages.  During  the  1980s,  a  more  prosperous  and 
modern  society  emerged.  Education  was  made  more  accessible,  and 
government  help  to  those  needing  it  was  improved.  Like  other  so- 
cieties, Greek  Cypriot  society  became  more  urbanized,  yet  mostly 
avoided  the  ill  effects  of  a  too  rapid  transition  to  city  life.  Ties  to 
the  countryside  remained  strong,  even  as  Greek  Cypriots  became 
better  connected  with  the  world  beyond  the  island. 

As  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  modernized,  social  relations  changed, 
but  not  as  quickly  as  in  Western  Europe.  The  Church  of  Cyprus, 
rather  conservative  in  its  doctrine,  remained  the  dominant  religion, 
although  it  played  a  smaller  role  than  formerly  in  the  lives  of  most 
Greek  Cypriots.  Marriage  and  family  remained  stronger  than  in 
the  United  States,  and  relations  between  the  sexes  were  not  as 


49 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


relaxed.  However,  Greek  Cypriot  women  were  better  educated  than 
their  mothers  and  were  more  likely  to  work  outside  the  home. 
Although  they  were  well  represented  in  some  professions,  Greek 
Cypriot  women  suffered  some  sex  discrimination  in  employment, 
and  the  republic's  feminist  movement  was  not  yet  influential. 

These  developments  occurred  against  the  backdrop  of  the  tragedy 
of  partition.  The  barrier  between  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots  was 
virtually  impenetrable.  The  older  generation  of  the  two  peoples 
had  experienced  the  terrors  of  intercommunal  conflict,  but  they 
had  had  some  contact  with  one  another.  A  new  generation  of  Greek 
Cypriots  did  not  know  members  of  the  other  community.  Some 
had  never  seen  a  Turkish  Cypriot. 

Geography 

The  physical  setting  for  life  on  the  island  is  dominated  by  the 
mountain  masses  and  the  central  plain  they  encompass,  the  Mesaor- 
ia  (see  fig.  3).  The  Troodos  Mountains  cover  most  of  the  southern 
and  western  portions  of  the  island  and  account  for  roughly  half 
its  area.  The  narrow  Kyrenia  Range,  extending  along  the  north- 
ern coastline,  occupies  substantially  less  area,  and  elevations  are 
lower.  The  two  mountain  systems  run  generally  parallel  to  the  Tau- 
rus Mountains  on  the  Turkish  mainland,  whose  silhouette  is  visi- 
ble from  northern  Cyprus.  Coastal  lowlands,  varying  in  width, 
surround  the  island. 

Terrain 

The  rugged  Troodos  Mountains,  whose  principal  range  stretches 
from  Pomos  Point  in  the  northwest  almost  to  Larnaca  Bay  on  the 
east,  are  the  single  most  conspicuous  feature  of  the  landscape.  In- 
tensive uplifting  and  folding  in  the  formative  period  left  the  area 
highly  fragmented,  so  that  subordinate  ranges  and  spurs  veer  off 
at  many  angles,  their  slopes  incised  by  steep-sided  valleys.  In  the 
southwest,  the  mountains  descend  in  a  series  of  stepped  foothills 
to  the  coastal  plain. 

Whereas  the  Troodos  Mountains  are  a  massif  formed  of  molten 
igneous  rock,  the  Kyrenia  Range  is  a  narrow  limestone  ridge  that 
rises  suddenly  from  the  plains.  Its  easternmost  extension  becomes 
a  series  of  foothills  on  the  Karpas  Peninsula.  That  peninsula  points 
toward  Asia  Minor,  to  which  Cyprus  belongs  geologically. 

Even  the  highest  peaks  of  the  Kyrenia  Range  are  hardly  more 
than  half  the  height  of  the  great  dome  of  the  Troodos  massif,  Mount 
Olympus  (1,952  meters),  but  their  seemingly  inaccessible,  jagged 
slopes  make  them  considerably  more  spectacular.  British  writer 
Lawrence  Durrell,  in  Bitter  Lemons,  wrote  of  the  Troodos  as  4 'an 


50 


Mediterranean  Sea 


Paphos 


Figure  3.  Topography  and  Drainage 
52 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


unlovely  jumble  of  crags  and  heavyweight  rocks"  and  of  the  Kyrenia 
Range  as  belonging  to  "the  world  of  Gothic  Europe,  its  lofty  crags 
studded  with  crusader  castles." 

Rich  copper  deposits  were  discovered  in  antiquity  on  the  slopes 
of  the  Troodos.  Geologists  speculate  that  these  deposits  may  have 
originally  formed  under  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  as  a  consequence 
of  the  upwelling  of  hot,  mineral-laded  water  through  a  zone  where 
plates  that  formed  the  ocean  floor  were  pulling  apart. 

Drainage 

Deforestation  over  the  centuries  has  damaged  the  island's 
drainage  system  and  made  access  to  a  year-round  supply  of  water 
difficult.  A  network  of  winter  rivers  rises  in  the  Troodos  Moun- 
tains and  flows  out  from  them  in  all  directions.  The  Yialias  River 
and  the  Pedhieos  River  flow  eastward  across  the  Mesaoria  into 
Famagusta  Bay;  the  Serakhis  River  flows  northwest  through  the 
Morphou  plain.  All  of  the  island's  rivers,  however,  are  dry  in  the 
summer.  An  extensive  system  of  dams  and  waterways  has  been 
constructed  to  bring  water  to  farming  areas. 

The  Mesaoria  is  the  agricultural  heartland  of  the  island,  but  its 
productiveness  for  wheat  and  barley  depends  very  much  on  winter 
rainfall;  other  crops  are  grown  under  irrigation.  Little  evidence 
remains  that  this  broad,  central  plain,  open  to  the  sea  at  either  end, 
was  once  covered  with  rich  forests  whose  timber  was  coveted  by 
ancient  conquerors  for  their  sailing  vessels.  The  now-divided  cap- 
ital of  the  island,  Nicosia,  lies  in  the  middle  of  this  central  plain. 

Climate 

The  Mediterranean  climate,  warm  and  rather  dry,  with  rainfall 
mainly  between  November  and  March,  favors  agriculture.  In  gener- 
al, the  island  experiences  mild  wet  winters  and  dry  hot  summers. 
Variations  in  temperature  and  rainfall  are  governed  by  altitude 
and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  distance  from  the  coast. 

The  higher  mountain  areas  are  cooler  and  moister  than  the  rest 
of  the  island.  They  receive  the  heaviest  annual  rainfall,  which  may 
be  as  much  as  1,000  millimeters.  Sharp  frost  also  occurs  in  the 
higher  districts,  which  are  usually  blanketed  with  snow  during  the 
first  months  of  the  year.  Plains  along  the  northern  coast  and  in 
the  Karpas  Peninsula  area  average  400  to  450  millimeters  of  an- 
nual rainfall.  The  least  rainfall  occurs  in  the  Mesaoria,  with  300 
to  400  millimeters  a  year.  Variability  in  annual  rainfall  is  charac- 
teristic for  the  island,  however,  and  droughts  are  frequent  and  some- 
times severe.  Earthquakes,  usually  not  destructive,  occur  from  time 
to  time. 


53 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Summer  temperatures  are  high  in  the  lowlands,  even  near  the 
sea,  and  reach  particularly  uncomfortable  readings  in  the  Mesaoria. 
Because  of  the  scorching  heat  of  the  lowlands,  some  of  the  villages 
in  the  Troodos  have  developed  as  resort  areas,  with  summer  as 
well  as  winter  seasons.  The  mean  annual  temperature  for  the  is- 
land as  a  whole  is  about  20°C.  The  amount  of  sunshine  the  island 
enjoys  enhances  the  tourist  industry.  On  the  Mesaoria  in  the  eastern 
lowlands,  for  example,  there  is  bright  sunshine  75  percent  of  the 
time.  During  the  four  summer  months,  there  is  an  average  of  eleven 
and  one-half  hours  of  sunshine  each  day,  and  in  the  cloudiest  winter 
months  there  is  an  average  of  five  and  one-half  hours  per  day. 

Ethnicity 

Cyprus  has  been  home  to  many  peoples  in  its  history.  At  the 
beginning  of  the  1990s,  five  ethnic  communities  lived  on  the  is- 
land: Greek  Cypriots,  Turkish  Cypriots,  Maronites,  Armenians, 
and  Latins.  The  events  of  1974  resulted  in  a  de  facto  partition  of 
the  island,  and  by  the  early  1990s  virtually  all  Turkish  Cypriots 
lived  in  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC"). 
Nearly  all  members  of  the  other  groups  lived  in  the  Republic 
of  Cyprus;  only  about  600  Greek  Cypriots  lived  outside  the 
government-controlled  area. 

Greek  Cypriots 

Greek  Cypriots  formed  the  island's  largest  ethnic  community, 
nearly  80  percent  of  the  island's  population.  They  were  the  descen- 
dants of  Achaean  Greeks  who  settled  on  the  island  during  the  sec- 
ond half  of  the  second  millennium  B.C.  The  island  gradually 
became  part  of  the  Hellenic  world  as  the  settlers  prospered  over 
the  next  centuries  (see  The  Ancient  Period,  ch.  1).  Alexander  the 
Great  freed  the  island  from  the  Persians  and  annexed  it  to  his  own 
empire  in  333  B.C.  Roman  rule  dating  from  58  B.C.  did  not  erase 
Greek  ways  and  language,  and  after  the  division  of  the  Roman 
Empire  in  A.D.  285  Cypriots  enjoyed  peace  and  national  freedom 
for  300  years  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Eastern  Empire  of  Byzan- 
tium (see  Byzantium  Rule,  ch.  1).  The  most  important  event  of 
the  early  Byzantine  period  was  that  the  Greek  Orthodox  Church 
of  Cyprus  became  independent  in  43 1 .  Beginning  in  the  middle 
of  the  seventh  century,  Cyprus  endured  three  centuries  of  Arab 
attacks  and  invasions.  In  965,  it  became  a  province  of  Byzantium, 
and  remained  in  that  status  for  the  next  200  years. 

The  Byzantine  era  profoundly  molded  Cypriot  culture.  The  Greek 
Orthodox  Christian  legacy  bestowed  on  Greek  Cypriots  in  this  period 
would  live  on  during  the  succeeding  centuries  of  oppressive  foreign 


54 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


domination.  English,  Lusignan,  and  Venetian  feudal  lords  ruled 
Cyprus  with  no  lasting  impact  on  its  culture  (see  The  Lusignan 
and  Venetian  Eras,  ch.  1).  Because  Cyprus  was  never  the  final 
goal  of  any  external  ambition,  but  simply  fell  under  the  domina- 
tion of  whichever  power  was  dominant  in  the  eastern  Mediterra- 
nean, destroying  its  civilization  was  never  a  military  objective  or 
necessity. 

Nor  did  the  long  period  of  Ottoman  rule  (1570-1878)  change 
Greek  Cypriot  culture  (see  Ottoman  Rule,  ch.  1).  The  Ottomans 
tended  to  administer  their  multicultural  empire  with  the  help  of 
their  subject  millets,  or  religious  communities.  The  tolerance  of  the 
millet  system  permitted  the  Greek  Cypriot  community  to  survive, 
administered  for  Constantinople  by  the  Archbishop  of  the  Church 
of  Cyprus,  who  became  the  community's  head,  or  ethnarch. 

However  tolerant  Ottoman  rule  may  have  been  with  regard  to 
religion,  it  was  otherwise  generally  harsh  and  rapacious,  tempered 
mainly  by  inefficiency.  Turkish  settlers  suffered  alongside  their 
Greek  Cypriot  neighbors,  and  the  two  groups  endured  together 
centuries  of  oppressive  governance  from  Constantinople. 

In  the  light  of  intercommunal  conflict  since  the  mid-1950s,  it 
is  surprising  that  Cypriot  Muslims  and  Christians  generally  lived 
harmoniously.  Some  Christian  villages  converted  to  Islam.  In  many 
places,  Turks  settled  next  to  Greeks.  The  island  evolved  into  a 
demographic  mosaic  of  Greek  and  Turkish  villages,  interspersed 
with  many  mixed  communities  (see  fig.  4).  The  extent  of  this  sym- 
biosis could  be  seen  in  the  two  groups'  participation  in  commer- 
cial and  religious  fairs,  pilgrimages  to  each  other's  shrines,  and 
the  occurrence,  albeit  rare,  of  intermarriage  despite  Islamic  and 
Greek  laws  to  the  contrary.  There  was  also  the  extreme  case  of 
the  linobambakoi  (linen-cottons),  villagers  who  practiced  the  rites  of 
both  religions  and  had  a  Christian  as  well  as  a  Muslim  name.  In 
the  minds  of  some,  such  religious  syncretism  indicates  that  religion 
was  not  a  source  of  conflict  in  traditional  Cypriot  society. 

The  rise  of  Greek  nationalism  in  the  1820s  and  1830s  affected 
Greek  Cypriots,  but  for  the  rest  of  the  century  these  sentiments 
were  limited  to  the  educated.  The  concept  of  enosis — unification 
with  the  Greek  motherland,  by  then  an  independent  country,  having 
freed  itself  from  Ottoman  rule — became  important  to  literate  Greek 
Cypriots.  A  movement  for  the  realization  of  enosis  gradually 
formed,  in  which  the  Church  of  Cyprus  had  a  dominant  role. 

During  British  rule  (1878-1960),  the  desire  for  enosis  intensified. 
The  British  brought  an  efficient  and  honest  colonial  administra- 
tion, but  maintained  the  millet  system.  Government  and  education 
were  administered  along  ethnic  lines,  accentuating  differences.  For 


55 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Mediterranean  Sea 


A 


Kyrenia 
(Girne) 


Famagusta  (Gazimagusa) 


Paphos* 


o0 


o 


limassol 


December  1960 
•  Greek 
o  Turkish 
^    Both  Greek/ 
™  Turkish 
10    20  Kilometers 
20  Miles 


10 


N 

A 

Mediterranean  Sea 

m 

rv                   Kyrenia          ^  ' 

\  ^  

'.  '  ill  i  ; 

■  X 

Famagusta 

/                          NICOSIA  1 

^(Gazimagusa) 

December  1964 

Turkish 
enclave 
i      i    Area  of  Greek 
control 

I  ■ 

ill                                     ■  ] 

®       National  capital 

Paphos\ 

■                           m  ^  "/ 

•  .  ■ 

^^Br  y  ■   

  n.  Ttimassoi 

B       Village  w/  both 

Turks  &  Greeks 
•        Populated  place 

0     10    20  Kilometers 

I  L-rJ  1 

0         10        20  Miles 

Mediterranean  Sea 

N 

A 

Kyrenia 

\^-*^~^^(Gime) 

/  NICOSIA 

V Famagusta  (Gazimagusa) 

/  (LEFKOSA) 

'CLarnaca 

December  1990 

i      1     Turkish  Cypriot 
administered 
area 

Paphos\ 

 \  /Limassol 

®      National  capital 
•       Populated  place 
0     1 0    20  Kilometers 

I  "-H  1 

0        10       20  Miles 

Figure  4.  Ethnic  Distribution  of  the  Population,  1960,  1964,  and  1990 


56 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


example,  the  education  system  was  organized  with  two  Boards  of 
Education,  one  Greek  and  one  Turkish,  controlled  by  Athens  and 
Constantinople,  respectively.  The  resulting  education  emphasized 
linguistic,  religious,  cultural,  and  ethnic  differences  and  ignored 
traditional  ties  between  the  two  Cypriot  communities.  The  two 
groups  were  encouraged  to  view  themselves  as  extensions  of  their 
respective  motherlands,  and  the  development  of  two  distinct  na- 
tionalities with  antagonistic  loyalties  was  ensured. 

By  the  1950s,  the  growing  attraction  of  enosis  for  ever  larger 
segments  of  Greek  Cypriot  society  caused  a  Turkish  Cypriot  reac- 
tion, a  desire  for  taksim — partition  of  the  island.  The  smaller  eth- 
nic community  had  well-founded  reasons  for  fearing  rule  from  the 
Greek  mainland.  In  the  mid-1950s,  Greek  Cypriot  agitation  for 
enosis  went  beyond  manifestos  and  demonstrations,  and  Turkish 
Cypriots  responded  in  kind  (see  The  Emergency,  ch.  1).  Within 
twenty  years,  the  island  was  tragically  divided. 

By  the  early  1990s,  Greek  Cypriot  society  enjoyed  a  high  stan- 
dard of  living,  and,  to  a  degree  unknown  in  its  past,  was  educated 
and  open  to  influences  from  the  outside  world.  Economic  modern- 
ization created  a  more  flexible  and  open  society  and  caused  Greek 
Cypriots  to  share  the  concerns  and  hopes  of  other  secularized  West 
European  societies.  The  Archbishop  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus  was 
the  ethnarch,  or  leader,  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  community  in  name 
only  because  religion  had  lost  much  of  its  earlier  power.  Finally, 
the  dream  of  enosis  was  irrevocably  shattered  by  the  events  of  1974, 
and  Greek  Cypriots  sought  to  deal  with  the  consequences  of  the 
Turkish  invasion. 

Other  Ethnic  Groups 

Cyprus  had  three  other  ethnic  groups  at  the  beginning  of  the 
1990s:  Maronites,  Armenians,  and  Latins.  Together  they  numbered 
only  about  6,000,  less  than  1  percent  of  the  island's  population,  but 
they  maintained  social  institutions  of  their  own  and  were  represented 
in  organs  of  government.  The  Maronites  and  Armenians  had  come 
during  the  Byzantine  period,  and  the  Latins  slightly  later.  The 
Maronites,  Arabic- speaking  peasants  from  around  Syria  and  Leb- 
anon, were  already  an  important  ethnic  group  at  the  time  of  the 
Turkish  conquest  in  1571 .  By  the  mid-twentieth  century,  they  lived 
mainly  in  four  villages  in  northwestern  Cyprus.  Armenian  Cypri- 
ots were  primarily  urban  and  mercantile,  most  of  whom  had  ar- 
rived after  the  collapse  of  the  Armenian  nationalist  movement  in 
the  Caucasus  at  the  end  of  World  War  I.  Latins  were  concentrated 
among  merchant  families  of  the  port  towns  on  the  southern  coast 
and  were  descendants  of  the  Lusignan  and  Venetian  upper  classes. 


57 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


The  Ottomans  had  suppressed  Roman  Catholicism,  and  Latins 
were  largely  Greek  Orthodox,  but  retained  their  French  or  Italian 
names.  Some  Latins  reverted  to  the  group's  original  religion. 

Population 

In  1960,  the  last  year  for  which  there  was  an  official  census  for 
the  entire  population  of  Cyprus,  the  island  was  home  to  573,566 
people.  Official  estimates  held  that  there  were  441 ,568  Greek  Cypri- 
ots,  3,627  Armenians,  2,706  Maronites  (in  the  future  these  two 
groups  were  to  be  counted  as  part  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  communi- 
ty, according  to  the  terms  of  the  constitution  of  I960),  103,822  Turk- 
ish Cypriots,  and  24,408  others  (mostly  foreigners)  (see  table  5, 
Appendix).  According  to  government  statistics,  81.14  percent  of 
Cypriots  in  1960  were  Greek  Cypriot  (including  Armenians  and 
Maronites)  and  18.86  percent  were  Turkish  Cypriot.  Republic  of 
Cyprus  statistics  estimated  the  1988  population  of  the  whole  island 
at  687,500,  and  that  of  the  government-controlled  area  at  562,700 
(see  table  6,  Appendix).  It  was  estimated  that  the  island's  popula- 
tion consisted  of  550,400  (80.1  percent)  Greek  Cypriots  (includ- 
ing 6,300  Armenians  and  Maronites),  128,200  (18.6  percent) 
Turkish  Cypriots,  and  8,900  (1.3  percent)  who  belonged  to  other 
groups  (mainly  British).  Cypriot  population  estimates  were  often 
controversial  because  they  could  have  significant  bearing  on  polit- 
ical settlements.  Thus,  population  figures  from  the  "Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  differed  markedly  from  those  of 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus  (see  table  7,  Appendix). 

Birth  Rates 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  had  a  fertility 
rate  (births  per  woman)  of  2.4,  the  highest  in  Western  Europe.  But 
this  spurt  in  births  was  a  new  development,  and  it  was  uncertain 
how  long  it  would  continue.  In  the  troubled  1970s,  the  reverse  had 
been  the  case.  Substantial  migration  and  a  decline  in  the  fertility 
rate  resulted  in  a  negative  growth  rate  of  -  0.9  percent  in  the  years 
1973-76  (see  fig.  5).  In  the  period  1976-82,  while  the  economy  was 
being  restructured,  population  growth  gradually  reached  an  aver- 
age rate  of  0.8  percent,  and  in  1984  peaked  at  1.4  percent.  In  the 
second  half  of  the  1980s,  the  growth  rate  remained  above  1  percent. 

The  long-term  decline  in  the  fertility  rate  was  first  noted  after 
World  War  II,  when  the  crude  birth  rate  dropped  from  32  per  thou- 
sand in  1946  to  an  average  of  25  per  thousand  during  the  1950s. 
The  main  contributing  factor  in  this  remarkable  fall  in  fertility  was 
the  rapid  postwar  economic  development.  This  downward  trend 
continued  in  the  following  decades,  and  a  rate  of  18  per  thousand 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


was  recorded  in  the  first  part  of  the  1970s.  After  a  further  decline 
to  16  per  thousand  in  the  years  after  the  1974  invasion,  the  Greek 
Cypriot  birth  rate  increased  to  a  rate  of  20  to  21  per  thousand  during 
the  period  1980-86,  and  then  continued  its  decline,  reaching  19.2 
per  thousand  in  1985-88. 

This  change  in  the  reproductive  behavior  of  the  Greek  Cypriot 
population  was  generally  attributed  to  improvement  of  the  stan- 
dard of  living,  expansion  of  education  to  all  sections  of  the  popu- 
lation, and  the  consequent  wider  participation  by  women  in  the 
work  force.  In  addition,  there  was  the  traditional  Cypriot  concern 
to  provide  a  better  future  for  offspring,  which,  in  a  modern  social 
context,  entailed  increased  expenditure  for  education  and  a  striv- 
ing to  amass  a  larger  material  inheritance.  As  a  result,  the  aver- 
age family  size  has  declined,  from  3.97  persons  in  1946  to  3.51 
in  1982. 

A  final  cause  of  declining  birth  rates  is  the  disappearance  in 
Cyprus  of  the  rural-urban  dichotomy,  in  which  higher  birth  rates 
are  registered  in  the  countryside.  The  postwar  period  saw  an  in- 
creasing movement  of  people  to  the  towns,  on  either  a  daily  or  a 
permanent  basis.  This  fact,  together  with  the  compactness  of  the 
island,  has  resulted  in  "the  near  fusion  of  urban  and  rural  life," 
in  the  words  of  L.W.  St.  John-Jones,  a  student  of  Cypriot  demog- 
raphy. The  rapid  and  effective  dissemination  of  typical  urban  at- 
titudes contributed  to  a  rural  fertility  rate  not  much  higher  than 
the  urban  one.  Contraceptives  were  easily  available  at  modest  cost 
all  over  the  island;  abortions,  widely  carried  out  in  private  clinics, 
were  seen  not  as  matters  of  moral  or  religious  controversy,  but  sim- 
ply as  another  means  of  family  planning,  albeit  a  drastic  one. 

Emigration 

Emigration  of  Cypriots  abroad  has  often  been  on  a  large  enough 
scale  to  affect  population  growth.  As  a  demographic  phenomenon, 
it  has  been  viewed  as  an  extension  of  rural  to  urban  movement. 
At  times  when  a  future  in  the  towns  was  unpromising  for  those 
intent  on  escaping  rural  poverty,  there  was  the  additional  safety 
valve  of  emigration.  Cypriots  frequently  availed  themselves  of  this 
opportunity  instead  of  living  in  crowded  slums  in  their  country's 
towns,  and  their  relatively  small  numbers  meant  that  recipient  coun- 
tries could  easily  absorb  them.  Although  there  was  emigration  as 
early  as  the  1930s,  there  is  no  available  data  before  1955. 

The  periods  of  greatest  emigration  were  1955-59,  the  1960s,  and 
1974-79,  times  of  political  instability  and  socioeconomic  insecurity 
when  future  prospects  appeared  bleak  and  unpromising.  Between 
1955  and  1959,  the  period  of  anticolonial  struggle,  29,000  Cypriots, 


59 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


80  and  over 

M 

75-79 

70-74 

yyyyy 

65-69 

1  

vvvvvi 

60-64 

1  

yvyyy 

b 

55-59 

MALES  1 

Wyyyy^  females 

50-54 

Hi 

msamam 

yyyvyVxi 

45-49 

yyyyyyyy 

40-44 
35-39 

Wyyyyvyyy 
yyyyyyyyyx 

30-34 
25-29 
20-24 

Wy\vyvyvv> 
yyyyyyyyyy^ 

r 

15-19 
10-14 

yyyyyyyyyx 
Wyyyp<vy>r> 

f1— 

yyyvyprx,yy,> 

5-9 
0-4 

yyyyyj<yyyyyyyi 

30  20  10  0  10  20  30 

POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department 
of  Statistics  and  Research,  Demographic  Report,  1988,  Nicosia,  1989,  83. 

Figure  5.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1988 

5  percent  of  the  population,  left  the  island.  In  the  1960s,  there  were 
periods  of  economic  recession  and  intercommunal  strife,  and  net 
emigration  has  been  estimated  at  about  50,000,  or  8.5  percent  of 
the  island's  1970  population.  Most  of  these  emigrants  were  young 
males  from  rural  areas  and  usually  unemployed.  Some  5  percent 
were  factory  workers,  and  only  5  percent  were  university  gradu- 
ates. Britain  headed  the  list  of  destinations,  taking  more  than  75 
percent  of  the  emigrants  in  1953-73;  another  8  to  10  percent  went 
to  Australia,  and  about  5  percent  to  North  America. 

During  the  early  1970s,  economic  development,  social  progress, 
and  relative  political  stability  contributed  to  a  slackening  of  emigra- 
tion. At  the  same  time,  there  was  immigration,  so  that  the  net  im- 
migration was  3,200  in  1970-73.  This  trend  ended  with  the  1974 
invasion.  During  the  1974-79  period,  51,500  persons  left  as 
emigrants,  and  another  15,000  became  temporary  workers  abroad. 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  new  wave  of  emigrants  had  Australia  as  the  most  common 
destination  (35  percent),  followed  by  North  America,  Greece,  and 
Britain.  Many  professionals  and  technical  workers  emigrated,  and 
for  the  first  time  more  women  than  men  left.  By  the  early  1980s, 
the  government  had  rebuilt  the  economy,  and  the  30  percent  un- 
employment rate  of  1974  was  replaced  by  a  labor  shortage.  As  a 
result,  only  about  2,000  Cypriots  emigrated  during  the  years 
1980-86,  while  2,850  returned  to  the  island. 

Although  emigration  slowed  to  a  trickle  during  the  1980s,  so 
many  Cypriots  had  left  the  island  in  preceding  decades  that  in  the 
late  1980s  an  estimated  300,000  Cypriots  (a  number  equivalent 
to  60  percent  of  the  population  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus)  resided 
in  seven  foreign  countries. 

Internal  Migration 

Major  demographic  changes  could  also  be  seen  in  the  distribu- 
tion of  the  population  between  urban  and  rural  areas  in  the  past 
fifty  years.  From  1881  to  1911,  there  was  almost  no  internal  migra- 
tion, and  the  rural  population  constituted  81  percent  of  the  total. 
The  first  change  was  noted  in  the  1931  census,  when  22  percent 
of  the  population  was  classified  as  town  dwellers.  In  the  following 
decades,  especially  in  the  period  1946-60,  the  urban  proportion 
grew  increasingly  rapidly;  the  urban  population  increased  by  78 
percent  in  that  period,  whereas  that  of  rural  areas  grew  by  only 
10  percent.  Some  36  percent  of  the  island's  population  was  con- 
centrated in  towns  in  1960.  The  urban  share  increased  to  42  per- 
cent by  1973.  In  this  same  period,  the  rural  population  actually 
declined  by  0.7  percent. 

Following  the  displacement  of  one-third  of  the  population  in  1974, 
the  urban  population  in  the  government-controlled  area  rose  to  52 
percent  in  1976  and  63.5  percent  in  1983.  Urbanization  did  not 
abate  in  the  following  years,  for  in  1986  fully  64  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation living  in  government-controlled  areas  of  Cyprus  was  urban- 
based.  According  to  the  republic's  1988  Demographic  Report  for 
those  areas  controlled  by  the  government,  363,000  persons  lived 
in  urban  areas  and  199,300  in  rural  areas.  Such  a  phenomenal 
change  in  the  island's  demographic  composition  could  not  fail  to 
have  significant  repercussions  in  all  areas  of  life. 

The  Nicosia  district,  historically  the  largest  of  the  island's  six 
districts,  continued  to  expand  at  a  faster  rate  than  the  other  dis- 
tricts. In  1881  its  population  constituted  30  percent  of  the  total; 
in  1973,  it  constituted  37  percent,  and  in  1986,  it  was  up  to  42 
percent.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  district's  population  was  estimated 
at  234,000,  despite  the  fact  that  a  large  part  of  it  is  in  the  occupied 


61 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

north;  Limassol,  the  second  largest  district,  had  91,500;  Paphos, 
49,500;  and  Famagusta,  most  of  which  is  under  Turkish  occupa- 
tion, 29,100. 

Urbanization  and  Occupational  Change 

Cyprus  experienced  a  rapid  and  intense  economic  transforma- 
tion after  World  War  II.  The  traditional  economy  of  subsistence 
agriculture  and  animal  husbandry  was  replaced  by  a  commercial 
economy,  centered  in  expanding  urban  areas.  These  economic 
changes  resulted  from  extensive  construction  of  housing  and  other 
facilities  for  British  military  personnel  during  World  War  II;  ex- 
ports of  minerals  (60  percent  of  all  exports),  which  became  the  is- 
land's most  valuable  export  in  the  1950s;  and  the  fourteenfold 
increase  in  British  military  spending  through  the  postwar  period. 
(Cyprus  became  Britain's  most  important  base  in  the  eastern 
Mediterranean  after  the  loss  of  bases  in  the  Arab  countries.)  In- 
dependence brought  such  an  acceleration  of  economic  development, 
the  so-called  "economic  explosion,"  that  by  the  end  of  the  1960s 
the  objectives  of  the  government's  economic  planning  were  not  only 
fulfilled,  but  overtaken. 

In  this  context  of  economic  growth,  agriculture  modernized:  farm 
machinery  became  common,  irrigation  increased,  and  the  scien- 
tific use  of  pesticides  and  fertilizers  became  widespread.  Farming, 
however,  became  less  important  in  the  economy  as  a  whole. 
Although  agricultural  income  tripled  during  the  1950s,  and  then 
doubled  in  the  1960s,  earnings  from  industry,  construction,  trade, 
tourism,  and  telecommunications  grew  even  more;  and  agricul- 
ture's share  of  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary) 
declined.  This  decline  brought  with  it  changes  in  employment  for 
many.  The  increasing  fragmentation  of  farms  through  inheritance 
and  a  shortage  of  water  caused  Cypriots  to  leave  farming  for  full- 
time  or  part-time  jobs  in  other  economic  sectors.  The  proximity 
of  employment  opportunities  in  urban  areas  only  made  the  transi- 
tion easier. 

The  flight  from  agriculture,  which  became  noticeable  in  the  de- 
cade and  a  half  after  World  War  II,  continued  after  independence 
and  reached  a  peak  in  1974,  when  the  best  and  most  productive 
agricultural  land  fell  under  Turkish  occupation.  In  1960  some  40.3 
percent  of  the  economically  active  population  were  agricultural  work- 
ers; in  1973,  the  figure  was  down  to  33.6  percent  employed  in  this 
sector.  In  1988  government  figures  estimated  only  13.9  percent  of 
the  work  force  earned  a  living  from  farming  full  time.  Although 
changes  in  accounting  principles  explain  some  of  the  lower  figures, 


62 


Kakopetria,  a  village  in  the  Troodos  Mountains 
Courtesy  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Press  and  Information  Office,  Nicosia 

the  decline  of  agricultural  employment  since  the  late  1940s  was 
striking. 

Urbanization  in  Cyprus  did  not  result  in  the  annihilation  of  tradi- 
tional values  and  practices,  but  in  their  preservation.  Urbaniza- 
tion took  place  under  conditions  that  generally  spared  the  island 
the  problems  often  connected  with  migration  of  large  numbers  of 
unemployed  farm  workers  to  urban  centers.  For  one  thing,  urbani- 
zation occurred  in  a  period  of  prosperity  and  increasing  economic 
activity,  and  employment  was  available.  In  addition,  farm  work- 
ers generally  left  their  villages  only  when  they  had  found  work  in 
urban  areas.  Another  happy  circumstance  was  that  the  island's  small 
size  and  its  good  road  system  linked  most  villages  to  the  towns, 
so  that  many  rural  workers  could  commute  daily  to  their  new  jobs. 
The  capital  and  largest  city  was  especially  well  connected  to  the 
countryside.  Finally,  rural  migrants  unable  to  afford  housing  in 
Nicosia  and  other  towns  were  able  to  settle  in  nearby  villages,  a 
circumstance  that  reduced  the  likelihood  of  slums. 

Many  migrants  regarded  access  to  secondary  education  as  a  prin- 
cipal reason  for  moving  to  the  city.  Traditional  Cypriot  agricul- 
tural society  valued  land  above  all  else  and  considered  education 
a  wasteful  luxury;  a  modern  and  diversified  economy,  however, 
made  education  a  necessity.  Migrants  came  to  value  education  as 


63 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

the  principal  means  of  improving  their  material  and  social  posi- 
tions. Expansion  of  education  contributed  immensely  to  the  dis- 
semination of  urban  values  and  organizations  to  rural  Cyprus. 

Postwar  population  redistribution  in  Cyprus  was  so  extensive 
that  most  urban  dwellers  were  born  in  rural  areas.  These  migrants 
maintained  close  ties  with  the  countryside,  and  many  owned  plots 
of  land  in  their  places  of  origin.  The  satisfaction  of  owning  land 
went  beyond  increasing  property  values,  a  fact  that  is  easy  to  un- 
derstand in  Cypriots,  who  were  an  agricultural  people  until  just 
a  generation  ago. 

Class  Structure 

Cypriot  class  structure  traditionally  has  been  free  of  vast  dis- 
parities of  wealth  and  status.  During  Ottoman  rule,  Venetian  es- 
tates were  broken  up  and  given  to  Turkish  settlers,  who  soon  were 
indistinguishable  from  their  Greek  Cypriot  neighbors,  until  one 
heard  them  speak.  A  small  Ottoman  bureaucracy  governed  the  is- 
land, aided  by  the  Greek  Orthodox  clergy,  who,  under  the  millet 
system,  were  the  leaders  of  their  people.  Some  Greek  Cypriots  en- 
gaged in  commerce,  but  the  island's  population  consisted  mostly 
of  small  farmers.  This  pattern  continued  until  the  early  decades 
of  this  century,  when,  under  British  rule,  the  economy  became  more 
diversified  and  living  standards  slowly  began  to  rise. 

During  this  period,  a  small  Greek  commercial  class  formed,  often 
drawing  its  money  from  working  for  the  British.  In  addition  to 
profiting  from  government  service  and  increased  commerce,  some 
Cypriots  acquired  wealth  as  moneylenders.  Taking  advantage  of 
frequent  droughts  and  plagues,  moneylenders  could  become 
dominant  figures  and  landowners  in  the  countryside.  Their  for- 
tunes were  relatively  small,  however,  for  Cyprus  was  a  poor  coun- 
try, with  most  people  living  at  subsistence  levels.  The  founding 
of  the  cooperative  movement  in  the  early  years  of  the  twentieth 
century  and  British  reforms  in  later  decades  broke  the  power  of 
these  small  financiers  and  permitted  farmers  to  repay  their  debts 
at  reasonable  rates.  The  cities  had  no  wealthy  class,  but  only  more 
prosperous  groups  that  earned  their  living  in  government  service, 
the  professions,  and  business. 

From  the  1950s  to  the  invasion  of  1974,  the  Cypriot  economy 
bloomed,  and  many  prospered.  The  average  living  standard  in- 
creased markedly  in  both  the  countryside  and  the  city.  Workers 
commuted  to  urban  areas  for  employment,  yet  lived  in  their  home 
villages;  thus,  no  slums  were  created.  Some  businessmen  in  the 
cities  earned  substantial  amounts  of  money  through  hotels,  real 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


estate,  and  commerce.  Although  some  of  these  businessmen  be- 
came quite  wealthy,  their  money  was  new.  Fortunes  in  Cyprus  rare- 
ly went  back  beyond  a  generation. 

The  substantial  economic  growth  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  since 
the  mid-1970s  furthered  these  trends.  All  government-controlled 
areas  benefited  from  the  prosperous  economy,  and  new  modern 
houses  were  seen  in  every  village.  Land  become  very  valuable,  and 
fortunes  could  be  earned  from  land  earlier  regarded  as  worthless. 
Many  became  rich  from  the  explosive  growth  of  the  tourist  indus- 
try. Fortunes  were  also  earned  from  manufacturing,  trade  and  ship- 
ping, and  financial  services,  and  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  the 
republic  had  a  highly  visible  class  of  the  newly  wealthy. 

The  republic's  prosperity  was  widely  shared,  however.  The  aver- 
age standard  of  living  matched  those  of  some  other  West  Europe- 
an countries.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  even  working-class 
Cypriots  regarded  vacations  abroad  as  necessities.  A  welfare  sys- 
tem along  West  European  lines  supported  Cypriots  in  need. 

Education  was  a  common  means  of  rising  in  social  status,  and 
most  Cypriots  respected  higher  education  and  white-collar  profes- 
sions. The  expanding  economy  allowed  many  Cypriots  to  do  more 
sophisticated  work  than  had  their  parents.  To  move  in  one  gener- 
ation from  farmer  to  urban  professional  became,  if  not  the  rule, 
at  least  not  extraordinary.  Given  the  small  size  of  the  republic,  and 
the  still  strong  tradition  of  the  extended  family,  virtually  all  Cypriots 
could  number  among  their  relatives  farmers,  teachers,  government 
employees,  small  businessmen,  and  other  professional  workers. 

Family  and  Marriage 

The  structure  of  the  family  was  affected  by  the  postwar  changes. 
The  family  was  traditionally  the  most  important  institution  in  Cypri- 
ot  society.  Especially  in  village  life,  people  thought  of  themselves 
primarily  as  members  of  families,  and  rarely,  according  to  sociol- 
ogist Peter  Loizos,  spoke  of  "themselves  as  individuals  in  the  ex- 
istential sense."  Others  have  noted  that  Greek  Cypriots  traditionally 
identified  themselves  first  as  members  of  families,  then  according 
to  their  places  of  origin,  and  lastly  as  citizens  of  a  nation. 

The  typical  traditional  Greek  Cypriot  households  consisted  of 
a  father,  a  mother,  and  their  unmarried  children.  At  marriage, 
the  parents  gave  their  children  a  portion  of  land,  if  available,  along 
with  money  and  household  items.  Traditionally,  the  bridegroom 
provided  the  house  and  the  bride's  family  the  furniture  and  linens. 
These  gifts  were  the  dowry,  the  allocation  of  an  equal  portion  of 
the  parents'  property  to  the  children,  male  or  female,  at  the  time 
of  marriage,  rather  than  after  the  death  of  the  parents.  Until  the 


65 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

1950s,  this  transfer  of  property  at  marriage  was  agreed  to  orally 
by  the  parties  involved;  more  recently  the  so-called  dowry  contract 
has  been  introduced.  A  formal  agreement  specifying  the  amount 
of  property  to  be  given  to  the  couple,  the  dowry  contract  is  signed 
by  all  parties  and  enforced  by  religious  authorities.  At  the  engage- 
ment, for  example,  a  priest  will  ask  if  such  a  contract  has  been 
considered. 

After  World  War  II,  it  became  the  bride's  obligation  to  provide 
the  house.  Ownership  of  a  house,  given  the  scarcity  of  land  (espe- 
cially after  the  invasion  of  1974)  and  the  considerable  expense  of 
building,  became  a  great  advantage  for  a  single  woman  seeking 
to  marry.  For  this  reason,  a  great  part  of  the  wages  of  a  working 
woman  went  to  the  construction  of  a  house,  for  a  "good  mar- 
riage" was  as  important  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  as  it  was 
in  the  past. 

Traditionally,  all  marriages  were  arranged,  generally  through 
the  mediation  of  a  matchmaker.  The  latter,  although  unrelated  to 
either  family,  knew  the  families  well  enough  to  be  confident  that 
their  children  were  well  suited.  Opportunities  for  the  young  them- 
selves to  meet  were  rare  and  restricted.  They  met  at  church,  in 
the  presence  of  their  parents;  at  the  village  fountain;  and  during 
"Sunday  afternoon  walks,"  where  girls  and  boys  strolled  separately. 
Couples  were  matched  with  a  few  qualities  in  mind,  and  in  larger 
settlements  were  often  relative  strangers.  Love  was  not  seen  as  a 
good  reason  for  marriage,  for  romantic  love  was  not  highly  esteemed 
in  traditional  Cypriot  society.  Divorce  and  separation  were  virtu- 
ally unknown.  Through  the  system  of  marriage  and  dowry,  kin- 
ship and  economic  ties  were  so  rigidly  defined  that  neither  partner 
could  opt  out  of  a  marriage  without  devastating  social  consequences. 

Urbanization  and  modernization  have  altered  Greek  Cypriot  at- 
titudes toward  marriage.  The  expansion  of  the  school  system  has 
meant  that  boys  and  girls  meet  from  an  early  age  and  are  exposed 
to  modern  ideas  about  social  and  sexual  relations.  The  great  in- 
crease in  the  number  of  women  in  the  work  force  also  has  liberat- 
ed them  from  strict  parental  control. 

Even  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  however,  economic  consider- 
ations remained  a  decisive  factor  in  matters  of  sexual  morality  and 
marriage  settlements.  In  farming  communities,  for  example,  where 
daughters  were  financially  dependent  on  parents,  the  latter  could 
still  regulate  premarital  behavior.  Among  the  lower  middle  class 
of  wage  earners,  where  there  was  little  property  to  divide  among 
the  children,  parents  still  retained  considerable  authority  over  their 
daughters,  for  a  "good  name"  was  thought  to  increase  the  chances 
of  a  marriage  bringing  upward  social  mobility.  Among  affluent 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


urban  classes,  where  girls  associated  with  boys  of  similar  econom- 
ic background,  parents  relaxed  their  vigilance  considerably,  and 
more  typically  modern  Western  attitudes  toward  sexual  morality 
emerged. 

In  traditional  Cypriot  society,  full  manhood  was  attained  through 
marriage  and  becoming  the  main  support  for  a  family.  Similarly, 
it  was  only  through  marriage  that  a  woman  could  realize  what  was 
seen  as  her  main  purpose  in  life,  becoming  a  mother  and  homemak- 
er.  Remaining  single  reduced  a  woman  to  the  marginal  role  of  look- 
ing after  aged  parents  and  being  on  the  periphery  of  her  married 
siblings'  lives. 

The  great  importance  of  a  separate  "dwelling  unit"  for  the 
nuclear  family  has  always  been  recognized  as  a  prerequisite  for  the 
couple's  economic  independence.  Accordingly,  the  head  of  the 
family  has  been  seen  as  morally  justified  in  pursuing  the  interest 
of  his  dependents  in  all  circumstances.  This  principle  of  symferon, 
that  is,  self-interest,  overrides  every  other  consideration.  Acting 
in  accordance  with  the  principle  of  symferon,  Greek  Cypriot  par- 
ents do  all  in  their  power  to  equip  their  children  for  the  future. 
In  present-day  Cyprus,  this  involves  providing  the  best  possible 
education  for  sons  and  securing  a  house  as  well  as  an  acceptable 
education  for  daughters. 

In  traditional  Cypriot  villages,  houses  were  built  close  to  one 
another,  encouraging  the  close  contact  and  cooperation  that  were 
necessary  for  survival  in  a  context  of  general  poverty.  The  closely 
knit  community  of  families  provided  a  sense  of  belonging  and  secu- 
rity, but  also  greatly  restricted  individuals  within  accepted  norms 
and  boundaries  in  all  aspects  of  life.  Urbanization  had  a  liber- 
ating effect.  As  people  became  wage  earners,  the  self-sufficiency 
of  the  nuclear  family  grew  at  the  expense  of  community  inter- 
dependence. 

Despite  changes  in  its  structure,  however,  the  family  remained 
strong  in  Greek  Cypriot  society.  In  the  period  1985-89,  the  coun- 
try's marriage  rate  was  9.5  per  thousand,  the  highest  in  Europe. 
The  period  saw  a  rising  trend  in  the  marriage  age  for  men  and 
women,  about  one  year  older  for  both  than  in  earlier  years.  In  1988 
the  mean  age  at  marriage  was  28.7  for  grooms,  and  25.2  for  brides. 
Grooms  and  brides  in  rural  areas  still  tended  to  marry  younger 
than  their  urban  counterparts.  On  the  other  hand,  the  divorce  rate 
had  almost  doubled  from  42  per  thousand  in  1980  to  68  per  thou- 
sand in  1988.  The  number  of  extramarital  births  remained  very 
low  by  European  standards;  in  1988  only  seventy- two  children  were 
born  out  of  wedlock,  a  mere  0.7  percent  of  the  total  number  of 
births. 


67 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Status  of  Women 

Postwar  changes  greatly  affected  Greek  Cypriot  women's  place 
in  society.  Especially  influential  were  changes  that  gave  women 
expanded  access  to  education  and  increased  participation  in  the 
work  force.  At  the  beginning  of  the  century,  the  proportion  of  girls 
to  boys  enrolled  in  primary  education  was  one  to  three.  By  1943 
some  80  percent  of  girls  attended  primary  school.  When,  in  1960, 
elementary  education  was  made  compulsory,  the  two  sexes  were 
equally  enrolled.  By  the  1980s,  girls  made  up  45  percent  of  those 
receiving  secondary  education.  Only  after  the  mid-1960s  did  women 
commonly  leave  Cyprus  to  receive  higher  education.  In  the  1980s, 
women  made  up  about  32  percent  of  those  studying  abroad. 

Cyprus  had  long  had  a  high  degree  of  female  participation  in 
the  work  force.  In  the  period  1960-85,  women's  share  of  the  work 
force  rose  only  slighdy,  from  40.8  percent  to  42.2  percent.  However, 
where  women  worked  changed  greatly.  Women's  share  of  the  ur- 
ban work  force  rose  from  22  percent  to  41  percent,  and  their  share 
of  the  rural  work  force  fell  from  51  percent  to  44.4  percent.  The 
decline  in  rural  areas  stemmed  from  the  overall  shift  away  from 
agricultural  work,  where  women's  contribution  had  always  been 
vital,  to  employment  in  urban  occupations. 

Cypriot  women  enjoyed  the  same  rights  to  social  welfare  as  men 
in  such  matters  as  social  security  payments,  unemployment  com- 
pensation, vacation  time,  and  other  common  social  provisions.  In 
addition,  after  1985  women  benefited  from  special  protective  legis- 
lation that  provided  them  with  marriage  grants  and  with  materni- 
ty grants  that  paid  them  75  percent  of  their  insurable  earnings. 
Still,  a  large  number  of  women,  the  self-employed  and  unpaid  fam- 
ily workers  on  farms,  were  not  covered  by  the  Social  Insurance 
Scheme  (see  Health  and  Welfare,  this  ch.).  These  women  constitut- 
ed 28  percent  of  the  economically  active  female  population. 

In  1985  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  ratified  the  United  Nations  Con- 
vention on  the  Elimination  of  all  Forms  of  Discrimination  against 
Women.  Despite  ratification  of  this  agreement,  as  of  late  1990  there 
was  no  legislation  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  that  guaranteed  the 
right  to  equal  pay  for  work  of  equal  value,  nor  the  right  of  women 
to  the  same  employment  opportunities. 

The  occupational  segregation  of  the  sexes  was  still  persistent  in 
Cyprus  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  Even  though  the  participa- 
tion of  women  in  clerical  jobs  had  more  than  doubled  since  the 
late  1970s,  only  one  woman  in  fifteen  was  in  an  administrative  or 
managerial  position  in  1985.  Women's  share  of  professional  jobs 
increased  to  39  percent  by  the  mid-1980s,  compared  with  36  percent 


68 


Breadbaking  in  a  Cypriot  village 
Courtesy  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Press  and  Information  Office,  Nicosia 

Traditional  Cypriot  wedding 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


69 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

ten  years  earlier,  but  these  jobs  were  concentrated  in  medicine  and 
teaching,  where  women  had  traditionally  found  employment.  In 
fields  where  men  were  dominant,  women's  share  of  professional 
positions  amounted  to  only  1 1  percent,  up  from  8  percent  in  1976. 
In  the  fields  where  women  were  dominant,  men  took  just  under 
half  the  professional  positions. 

Although  most  Cypriot  women  worked  outside  the  home,  they 
were  expected  to  fulfill  the  traditional  domestic  roles  of  housewife 
and  mother.  They  could  expect  little  help  from  their  spouses,  for 
most  Cypriot  men  were  not  ready  to  accept  any  domestic  duties, 
and  most  women  did  not  expect  them  to  behave  otherwise.  Nonethe- 
less, even  women  with  full-time  jobs  were  judged  by  the  tradition- 
al standards  of  whether  they  kept  a  clean  house  and  provided  daily 
hot  meals. 

Moreover,  even  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Cypriot  women 
were  still  burdened  with  the  expectation  of  safeguarding  the  honor 
of  the  family.  According  to  tradition,  a  woman's  duty  was  to  pro- 
tect herself  against  all  criticism  of  sexual  immodesty.  A  study  car- 
ried out  in  a  farming  community  in  the  mid-1970s  found  that 
women  were  still  expected  to  avoid  any  social  contact  with  men 
that  could  be  construed  to  have  a  sexual  content.  An  expressed 
desire  for  male  society  was  seen  to  reflect  poorly  on  a  woman's 
honor,  and  virginity  was  seen  by  many  villagers,  both  men  and 
women,  to  be  a  precondition  for  marriage.  The  honor  of  a  family, 
that  is,  the  sense  of  dignity  of  its  male  members,  depended  on  the 
sexual  modesty  and  virtue  of  its  women.  These  traditional  attitudes 
have  waned  somewhat  in  recent  decades,  especially  in  urban  areas, 
but  were  still  prevalent  in  the  early  1990s.  Another  indication  of 
the  conservative  nature  of  Greek  Cypriot  society  at  the  beginning 
of  the  1990s  was  that  the  feminist  movement  in  Cyprus  was  often 
the  object  of  ridicule  from  both  sexes.  Nevertheless,  women's  in- 
creasing economic  independence  was  a  force  for  liberation  in  all 
sections  of  the  population. 

Religion 

The  most  important  church  in  Cyprus,  the  Church  of  Cyprus, 
is  an  autocephalous  church  in  the  Orthodox  tradition  using  the 
Greek  liturgy.  It  recognizes  the  seniority  and  prestige  of  the  ecu- 
menical patriarch  in  Constantinople,  but  retains  complete  adminis- 
trative autonomy  under  its  own  archbishop.  The  Great  Schism, 
as  the  split  between  Catholic  and  Orthodox  became  known,  had 
major  consequences  for  the  Church  of  Cyprus.  Under  Lusignan  and 
Venetian  rule,  the  Church  of  Cyprus  was  pressured  to  recognize 
the  authority  of  the  Roman  pope.  The  imposed  Roman  hierarchy 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


attempted  to  remold  the  Church  of  Cyprus  in  the  image  of  the 
Western  church.  Under  the  Muslim  Ottomans,  Cypriots  were  no 
longer  considered  schismatics,  but  merely  unbelievers  and  follow- 
ers of  an  inferior  religion.  As  such  they  were  allowed  considerable 
autonomy,  and  the  archbishop  was  the  officially  recognized  secu- 
lar as  well  as  religious  leader  of  his  community.  Under  the  Brit- 
ish, there  was  an  attempt  to  secularize  all  public  institutions,  but 
this  move  was  bitterly  opposed  by  church  authorities,  who  used 
the  conflict  with  the  state  to  gain  leadership  of  the  Greek  nation- 
alist movement  against  colonial  rule.  At  independence  Archbishop 
Makarios  III,  a  young,  Western-educated  former  monk,  was  elected 
president  of  the  republic,  holding  this  position  until  his  death  in 
1977.  His  successor,  Archbishop  Chrysostomos,  was  still  head  of 
the  Church  of  Cyprus  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  He  was  a  con- 
servative leader,  both  in  religious  and  political  matters,  well-suited 
for  a  church  that  had  never  undergone  reforms  such  as  those  in- 
stituted by  the  Second  Vatican  Council  for  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church. 

The  church  had  long  been  composed  of  four  episcopal  sees:  the 
archbishopric  of  Nicosia,  and  the  metropolitanates  of  Paphos,  Ki- 
tion,  and  Kyrenia.  New  metropolitanates  were  created  by  Makarios 
in  1973  for  Limassol  and  Morphou,  with  a  suffragan,  or  assistant, 
bishop  in  Salamis  under  the  archbishop.  A  bishop  had  to  be  a  gradu- 
ate of  the  Orthodox  theological  seminary  in  Greece  and  be  at  least 
thirty  years  of  age.  Because  Orthodox  bishops  were  sworn  to  a  vow 
of  celibacy  and  parish  clergy  were  usually  married,  bishops  were 
recruits  from  monasteries  rather  than  parish  churches.  Bishops  were 
not  appointed  by  the  archbishop,  but,  like  him,  were  elected  through 
a  system  granting  representation  to  laymen,  other  bishops,  abbots, 
and  regular  clergy. 

Individual  churches,  monasteries,  dioceses,  and  charitable  educa- 
tional institutions  organized  by  the  Church  of  Cyprus  were  indepen- 
dent legal  entities  enjoying  such  rights  and  obligations  as  holding 
property.  In  exchange  for  the  acquisition  of  many  church  lands, 
the  government  assumed  responsibility  for  church  salaries.  Parish 
clergy,  traditionally  married  men  chosen  by  their  fellow  villagers, 
were  sent  for  brief  training  before  ordination.  In  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury, modernizers,  most  notably  Archbishop  Makarios,  were  in- 
strumental in  strengthening  the  quality  and  training  of  priests  at 
the  Cypriot  seminary  in  Nicosia. 

The  monasteries  of  Cyprus  had  always  been  very  important  to 
the  Church  of  Cyprus.  By  the  twentieth  century,  many  had  long 
lain  in  ruins,  but  their  properties  were  among  the  most  important 
holdings  of  the  church,  the  island's  largest  landowner.  Although 


71 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


the  number  of  monks  decreased  in  the  postwar  era,  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  1990s  there  were  at  least  ten  active  monasteries  in  the 
government-controlled  areas. 

In  the  Orthodox  church,  ritual  was  to  a  great  extent  the  center 
of  the  church's  activity,  for  Orthodox  doctrine  emphasizes  the  mys- 
tery of  God's  grace  rather  than  salvation  through  works  and 
knowledge.  Seven  sacraments  are  recognized:  baptism  in  infancy, 
confirmation  with  consecrated  oil,  penance,  the  Eucharist,  matrimo- 
ny, ordination,  and  unction  in  times  of  sickness  or  when  near  death. 

Formal  services  are  lengthy  and  colorful,  with  singing,  incense, 
and  elaborate  vestments,  according  to  the  occasion,  worn  by  the 
presiding  priest.  Statues  are  forbidden,  but  the  veneration  of  icons, 
located  on  the  church's  walls  and  often  covered  with  offerings  of 
the  faithful,  is  highly  developed.  Easter  is  the  focus  of  the  church 
year,  closing  the  Lenten  fasting  with  an  Easter  Eve  vigil  and 
procession. 

Religious  observance  varied.  In  traditional  rural  villages,  women 
attended  services  more  frequently  than  men,  and  elderly  family 
members  were  usually  responsible  for  fulfilling  religious  duties  on 
behalf  of  the  whole  family.  Church  attendance  was  less  frequent 
in  urban  areas  and  among  educated  Cypriots.  For  much  of  the 
population,  religion  centered  on  rituals  at  home,  veneration  of  icons, 
and  observance  of  certain  feast  days  of  the  Orthodox  calendar. 

Education 

One  of  the  most  important  institutional  changes  introduced  dur- 
ing the  period  of  British  rule  was  the  allocation  of  a  small  subsidy 
for  the  establishment  of  primary  schools.  A  great  increase  in  the 
number  of  primary  schools  throughout  the  island  was  made  possi- 
ble by  the  Education  Law  of  1895,  which  permitted  local  authori- 
ties to  raise  taxes  to  finance  schools.  In  1897  there  were  only  76 
schools,  run  by  voluntary  and  church  donations;  twenty  years  later, 
there  were  179.  Colonial  officials  also  subsidized  teacher  training 
and  agricultural  courses,  but  did  not  interfere  with  local  and  church 
authorities  in  the  area  of  secondary  education. 

As  a  result  of  a  campaign  against  illiteracy  launched  by  British 
authorities,  the  percentage  of  illiterate  adult  Cypriots  fell  from  33 
percent  in  1946  to  18  percent  in  1960.  After  independence  the  il- 
literacy rate  dropped  still  further,  to  9.5  percent  in  1976,  the  last 
year  for  which  there  are  statistics.  In  that  year,  15  percent  of  women 
were  illiterate,  as  were  3.2  percent  of  men.  This  improvement 
reflected  the  growing  school  enrollment.  In  1960  as  much  as  25 
percent  of  the  population  had  never  attended  school,  but  by  1986-87 
this  figure  had  dropped  to  6  percent.  Another  indication  of  the 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


expansion  of  education  was  that  in  1946  only  5  percent  of  adult 
women  had  attended  secondary  schools;  forty  years  later,  30  per- 
cent had. 

During  the  colonial  period,  the  main  educational  goal  was  the 
inculcation  of  national  ideals  and  the  strengthening  of  ethnic  iden- 
tity. After  independence,  goals  became  more  practical.  A  well- 
educated  population  was  seen  as  the  best  way  of  guaranteeing  a 
thriving  economy,  a  rise  in  overall  living  standards,  and  a  vigorous 
cultural  life.  The  great  importance  attached  to  education  could  be 
seen  in  the  significant  rise  in  government  spending  on  it  during 
the  period  since  independence.  In  1960  education  accounted  for 
3.4  percent  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary). 
By  1987  education  accounted  for  5.6  percent  of  GNP  and  11.6  per- 
cent of  the  government's  budget. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  qualified  teachers  and  adminis- 
trative personnel  for  all  levels  and  types  of  schools  were  in  good 
supply.  All  teachers  were  accredited  by  a  special  committee  of  the 
Ministry  of  Education.  All  public  schools  had  uniform  curricula; 
the  preparation  of  school  textbooks  was  the  responsibility  of  com- 
mittees of  teachers  and  administrators,  working  in  close  coopera- 
tion with  educational  authorities  in  Greece.  Some  instructional 
material  for  both  primary  and  secondary  education  was  donated 
by  the  Greek  government.  Cypriot  schools  were  also  well  provid- 
ed with  modern  teaching  equipment. 

A  principal  challenge  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  was  provid- 
ing education  more  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  economy.  The 
first  vocational-technical  schools  were  established  after  indepen- 
dence in  an  attempt  to  provide  the  rapidly  expanding  economy  with 
technicians  and  skilled  workers.  However,  Cypriots  retained  a  ten- 
dency to  choose  academic  rather  than  technical  courses,  for  rea- 
sons of  social  prestige.  Cyprus  therefore  faced  a  chronic  shortage 
of  skilled  workers  and  a  high  rate  of  unemployment  for  university 
graduates.  By  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  this  trend  had  ended. 
In  the  1986-87  academic  year,  only  5.3  percent  of  students  opted 
for  the  classical  academic  course  of  studies,  compared  with  46.2 
percent  in  the  1965-66  academic  year.  About  half  of  all  students 
chose  to  concentrate  on  economic  and  commercial  courses;  about 
one-fifth  chose  scientific  courses;  and  one-fifth,  vocational-technical 
courses. 

The  Greek  Cypriot  education  system  consisted  of  preprimary 
and  primary  schools,  secondary  general  and  secondary  techni- 
cal/vocational schools,  and  special  schools  for  the  blind,  deaf,  and 
other  teachable  handicapped  persons.  In  addition,  there  were  in- 
stitutions for  teacher  training,  specialized  instruction,  and  informal 


73 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

education.  As  of  1990,  there  was  no  university  in  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus,  and  until  one  opened  in  the  early  1990s,  further  studies 
had  to  be  pursued  abroad.  There  were  a  small  number  of  private 
schools. 

The  constitution  of  1960  assigned  responsibility  for  education 
to  the  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  communal  chambers. 
After  withdrawal  of  the  Turkish  Cypriots  from  all  state  institutions, 
the  government  proceeded  with  the  establishment  of  the  Ministry 
of  Education  in  1965.  Under  this  ministry,  the  education  system 
evolved  its  present  structure:  one  to  two  and  one-half  years  of 
preprimary  schooling  for  children  aged  three  to  five  and  one-half 
years;  six  years  of  primary  school  for  children  aged  five  and  one- 
half  to  eleven  and  one-half  years;  six  years  of  secondary  school- 
ing, followed  by  two  to  three  years  of  higher  education  for  those 
who  did  not  go  to  study  abroad. 

The  development  of  preprimary  education  was  a  relatively  re- 
cent phenomenon  in  Cyprus.  In  1973  only  11  percent  of  children 
under  five  years  of  age  attended  public  or  private  nurseries  or  kin- 
dergartens. Following  the  1974  invasion,  the  state  became  much 
more  involved  with  preprimary  education  through  its  establishment 
of  nurseries  and  kindergartens  for  the  thousands  of  refugees  from 
northern  areas.  The  1980s  saw  a  further  expansion  of  public  edu- 
cation of  this  kind  (see  table  8,  Appendix). 

Primary  education  was  always  free  in  Cyprus  and  aimed  at  the 
all-around  education  of  young  children.  After  1962  primary  edu- 
cation was  compulsory,  and  primary  schools  were  found  in  all  com- 
munities, even  remote  villages.  In  the  1986-87  academic  year,  there 
were  357  public  primary  schools,  and  16  private  ones  (most  of  the 
latter  for  the  children  of  foreign  residents). 

Secondary  education,  which  was  also  free,  but  not  compulsory, 
was  open  without  examination  to  all  children  who  had  completed 
primary  schooling.  It  was  divided  into  two  stages,  each  consisting 
of  three  grades.  During  the  first  stage,  the  gymnasium,  all  students 
were  taught  the  same  general  subjects,  with  a  special  emphasis  on 
the  humanities.  The  second  stage  consisted  of  either  the  lyceum, 
which  offered  five  main  fields  of  specialization  (classical  studies, 
science,  economics,  business,  and  languages),  or  a  vocational- 
technical  course.  Schools  of  the  second  category  aimed  at  provid- 
ing industry  with  technicians  and  craftsmen.  Vocational  schools 
trained  many  students  for  work  in  the  country's  important  tourist 
industry;  technical  schools  emphasized  mathematics,  science,  and 
training  in  various  technologies. 

After  independence  the  number  of  students  at  the  secondary  level 
increased  rapidly,  rising  from  26,000  in  the  1960-61  academic  year 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  42,000  ten  years  later.  By  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  98  per- 
cent of  those  who  completed  primary  school  attended  secondary 
schools,  compared  with  about  75  percent  twenty  years  earlier. 

Although  Cyprus  had  no  university  of  its  own  (the  long-planned 
University  of  Cyprus  was  expected  to  begin  enrolling  students  for 
some  courses  in  1991),  many  Cypriots  were  at  foreign  universi- 
ties. The  percentage  of  students  studying  at  the  university  level, 
29  percent,  was  among  the  highest  in  the  world.  During  the  1970s 
and  1980s,  an  average  of  more  than  over  10,000  Cypriots  studied 
abroad  annually.  During  the  1970s,  more  than  half  of  these  stu- 
dents were  in  Greece,  and  about  one-fifth  were  in  Britain.  In  the 
1980s,  the  United  States  became  an  important  destination  for  stu- 
dents going  abroad,  generally  surpassing  Britain.  The  number  of 
women  studying  abroad  increased  markedly  during  the  1970s  and 
1980s,  going  from  24  percent  in  1970  to  40  percent  in  1987. 

Cyprus  did,  however,  provide  some  opportunities  for  third-level 
training,  and  in  the  late  1980s  attracted  some  of  those  who  earlier 
would  have  studied  abroad.  In  1987  there  were  seven  public  and 
ten  private  institutions  of  higher  learning,  which  enrolled  about 
one-fourth  of  the  island's  secondary- school  graduates.  The  public 
institutions  were  the  Pedagogical  Academy  of  the  Ministry  of  Edu- 
cation, which  trained  kindergarten  and  primary- school  teachers; 
the  Higher  Technical  Institute  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  So- 
cial Insurance,  which  trained  mechanical,  electrical,  and  civil  en- 
gineers; the  College  of  Forestry  under  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture 
and  Natural  Resources;  the  School  of  Nursing,  the  School  of  Mid- 
wifery, and  the  Psychiatric  School  of  Nursing  under  the  Ministry 
of  Health;  and  the  Hotel  and  Catering  Institute  under  the  Minis- 
try of  Labor  and  Social  Insurance.  Private  institutions  offered 
courses  in  business  administration,  secretarial  studies,  mechani- 
cal and  civil  engineering,  banking  and  accounting,  hotel  and  cater- 
ing, and  communications. 

Health  and  Welfare 

A  Cambridge  professor,  visiting  Cyprus  in  1801,  wrote  that 
"there  is  hardly  upon  earth  a  more  wretched  spot"  than  Cyprus, 
with  its  "pestiferous  air"  and  contagion.  A  few  years  after  the  Brit- 
ish came  into  possession  of  the  country,  it  was  officially  reported 
that  the  island  was  generally  healthy;  this  assessment  could  be  at- 
tributed to  the  disappearance  of  the  plague  around  the  middle  of 
the  nineteenth  century.  According  to  testimony  of  the  chief  medi- 
cal officer  in  the  mid- 1880s,  however,  the  island's  situation  was 
far  from  healthy.  Because  the  towns  and  villages  were  often  sur- 
rounded by  marshes,  drainage  was  often  impossible  and  water 


75 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

supplies  were  often  contaminated.  The  draining  of  marshes,  de- 
struction of  the  anopheles  mosquito,  securing  of  sanitary  water, 
and  introduction  of  elementary  health  measures  freed  Cyprus  en- 
tirely of  the  plague,  typhus,  and  other  virulent  diseases  by  the  end 
of  the  century.  Malaria  remained  a  serious  concern,  whose  effects 
were  widely  evident.  The  eradication  of  this  disease  after  World 
War  II  contributed  greatly  to  the  well-being  of  the  island,  so  much 
so  that  some  observers  have  regarded  it  as  the  most  important  event 
in  the  modern  history  of  Cyprus. 

Health  Care 

Mortality  rates  and  the  health  of  Greek  Cypriots  improved  stead- 
ily in  the  postwar  era.  The  eradication  of  malaria  was  an  impor- 
tant cause  for  this  improvement,  as  were  material  prosperity  and 
the  diffusion  of  up-to-date  health  information.  Since  independence 
in  1960,  the  Ministry  of  Health  has  been  responsible  for  improv- 
ing public  health  and  providing  public  medical  services,  as  well 
as  overseeing  the  extensive  private  health-care  sector. 

Government  medical  services  were  available  to  all  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  1990s.  The  poor  .were  entitled  to  free  services;  middle- 
income  families  paid  for  care  at  reduced  rates.  These  two  groups 
accounted  for  well  over  half  the  population;  upper- income  persons 
paid  for  the  full  costs  of  medical  services.  In  addition,  employers 
and  trade  unions  subsidized  a  number  of  health  plans.  Civil  ser- 
vants and  members  of  police  and  military  units  received  free  med- 
ical care.  Cypriots  needing  care  not  available  in  the  republic  were 
sent  abroad  at  government  expense. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  had  six 
general  hospitals,  all  in  the  main  towns.  In  addition,  there  were 
twenty-one  rural  health  centers  and  a  psychiatric  hospital  in  Nico- 
sia. In  1987  there  were  1,870  hospital  beds,  compared  with  1,592 
in  1960.  The  private  health  sector  was  extensive,  and  more  than 
three-quarters  of  all  doctors  and  dentists  had  their  own  practices 
or  practiced  part  time  in  private  clinics.  Taking  both  public  and 
private  care  into  account,  in  1989  Cyprus  had  1  hospital  bed  per 
166  inhabitants,  1  doctor  per  482  inhabitants,  and  1  dentist  for 
every  1,356  inhabitants. 

The  improvement  in  the  island's  health  care  during  the  post- 
war period  was  reflected  by  increased  life  expectancy.  In  the 
1983-87  period,  Cypriot  women  could  expect  to  live  77.8  years 
and  men  73.9  years,  compared  with  69  and  64  years,  respectively, 
for  the  period  1948-50.  The  improvement  in  the  infant  mortality 
rate  was  even  more  striking,  with  11  deaths  per  1,000  births  in 
the  mid-1980s,  compared  with  63  per  1,000  at  mid-century. 


76 


Refugee  housing  project  in  Strovolos,  a  suburb  of  Nicosia 
Courtesy  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Press  and  Information  Office,  Nicosia 

The  main  reasons  for  improved  health  conditions  on  the  island 
were  the  Cypriots'  constant  pursuit  of  better  living  standards,  their 
consuming  concern  with  their  family's  welfare,  the  close  urban- 
rural  ties,  and  the  rapid  diffusion  of  and  receptiveness  to  innova- 
tive ideas  in  health  care. 

Social  Insurance 

The  five-year  development  plans  adopted  by  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  increasingly  stressed  that  a  developing  economy  was  the 
best  means  to  improve  the  welfare  and  living  standards  of  all  sec- 
tors of  the  population.  The  plan  covering  the  1989-93  period  had 
as  its  major  objectives  improving  living  standards,  attaining  higher 
levels  of  social  welfare,  and  instituting  a  more  equitable  distribu- 
tion of  national  income  and  economic  burdens. 

Beginning  with  independence,  the  state,  trade  unions,  and  the 
employers'  associations  had  cooperated  in  establishing  an  exten- 
sive network  of  social  security  that  included  social  insurance,  death 
benefits,  medical  treatment  and  hospitalization,  education,  and 
housing.  The  crowning  success  of  this  effort  was  the  national  So- 
cial Insurance  Scheme.  As  introduced  by  colonial  authorities  in 
1957,  it  was  limited  with  regard  to  both  the  number  of  persons 
covered  and  the  benefits  it  could  provide.  In  1964  the  plan  was 


77 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


improved  and  expanded  to  cover  every  person  gainfully  employed 
on  the  island,  including  even  the  self-employed.  The  welfare  pro- 
gram included  maternity  leave  and  assistance  for  sickness  and  work- 
related  injuries.  Legislation  providing  for  annual  paid  vacations 
was  introduced  in  1967.  By  1987  Cypriots  working  five  days  a  week 
were  entided  to  fifteen  days  of  annual  leave  a  year;  those  working 
six  days  a  week  had  the  right  to  eighteen  days.  Supporting  this 
entidement  was  a  central  vacation  fund  to  which  all  participating 
employers  were  required  to  contribute  6  percent  of  insurable 
earnings. 

A  system  of  unemployment  compensation  was  introduced  in 
1968.  Its  main  objectives  were  protecting  employees  against  ar- 
bitrary dismissal,  regulating  how  much  advance  notice  was  required 
before  dismissal,  and  setting  the  amount  of  unemployment  com- 
pensation. 

The  Social  Insurance  Scheme  was  fundamentally  improved  in 
1973.  For  the  first  time,  the  plan  included  a  disability  pension,  and 
coverage  of  the  self-employed  was  extended.  The  social  insurance 
program  now  included  a  whole  range  of  benefits.  Some  benefits 
were  short-range,  such  as  unemployment,  sickness,  or  injury 
benefits,  marriage  and  maternity  benefits,  and  disablement  and 
funeral  grants.  Long-term  benefits  included  pensions  for  the  elderly, 
widows  and  invalids,  and  payments  to  orphans  and  survivors. 

In  June  1974,  social  insurance  payments  were  increased  25  per- 
cent to  reach  West  European  standards  and  meet  relevant  Inter- 
national Labor  Organisation  criteria.  The  economic  crisis  stemming 
from  the  Turkish  invasion,  with  its  30  percent  unemployment,  com- 
pelled the  government  to  reduce  all  pensions  by  20  percent  and 
suspend  the  payment  of  unemployment  benefits,  as  well  as  mar- 
riage, birth,  and  funeral  grants.  By  1977  benefits  were  restored 
to  their  preinvasion  levels,  partly  through  the  establishment  of  a 
separate  fund  for  unemployment  benefits. 

The  Social  Insurance  Law  of  1980  set  contributions  and  benefits 
according  to  the  incomes  of  the  insured.  The  new  program  main- 
tained the  previous  flat-rate  principle  for  basic  benefits,  but  in- 
troduced supplementary  benefits  with  contributions  direcdy  related 
to  the  incomes  of  insured  persons.  In  addition  to  compulsory  cover- 
age of  all  gainfully  employed  persons,  the  new  program  allowed 
those  formerly  employed  to  continue  their  social  insurance  on  a 
voluntary  basis.  In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  participants  had 
amounts  equal  to  15.5  percent  of  their  insurable  earnings  paid  into 
the  central  fund.  For  employees,  the  contributions  came  from  three 
sources:  6  percent  from  employees  themselves,  6  percent  from 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


employers,  and  3.5  percent  from  the  government.  For  the  self- 
employed,  the  government  paid  3.5  percent,  and  the  insured  the 
rest. 

Apart  from  the  state  Social  Insurance  Scheme,  an  increasing 
number  of  insurance  or  pension  funds  were  being  registered  with 
the  Income  Tax  Department  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  In  1987 
there  were  1,065  such  funds,  with  a  total  of  C£25.1  million  (for 
value  of  the  Cyprus  pound — see  Glossary)  in  benefit  payments. 
The  number  of  insured  contributors  to  all  funds,  public  and  pri- 
vate, amounted  to  214,522  in  1987,  compared  with  183,000  in  1973. 
In  this  period,  the  government's  annual  contribution  increased  from 
C£21.7  million  to  C£223.7  million.  In  1986  the  government's  pay- 
ments of  social  insurance  benefits  constituted  4.5  percent  of  GNP, 
compared  with  1.6  percent  in  1970. 

Social  Welfare 

Social  welfare  policy  was  introduced  for  the  first  time  in  Cyprus 
in  1946,  when  legislation  was  enacted  to  regulate  the  supervision 
of  juvenile  offenders,  the  aftercare  of  reform-school  boys,  and  the 
protection  of  deprived  children.  After  independence  social  welfare 
became  the  responsibility  of  the  Department  of  Social  Welfare  Ser- 
vices under  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Insurance.  The  gov- 
ernment committed  itself  to  an  active  role  in  social  policy  when 
it  stated  in  1967  that  "it  recognizes  that  health,  education  and  other 
social  considerations  affect  and  are  interdependent  with  a  vast  com- 
plex of  variables  which  determine  both  the  social  and  economic 
welfare  of  the  island." 

By  the  1970s,  social  welfare  had  evolved  into  a  body  of  activi- 
ties designed  to  enable  individuals,  family  groups,  and  communi- 
ties to  cope  with  social  problems.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  state  provided 
five  main  categories  of  services:  delinquency  and  social  defense; 
child  and  family  welfare;  community  work  and  youth  services;  so- 
cial services  to  other  departments;  and  public  assistance. 

Delinquency  and  social  defense  services  were  concerned  with 
juvenile  and  adult  offenders.  They  included  pretrial  reports  on 
juveniles,  supervision  of  persons  placed  on  probation,  follow-up 
care  for  those  leaving  detention  centers  (obligatory  for  juveniles, 
voluntary  for  adults),  and  supervision  of  juveniles  involved  in  anti- 
social behavior  when  requested  by  parents  or  school  authorities. 

The  primary  recipients  of  child  and  family  welfare  were  chil- 
dren removed  from  families  where  conditions  could  no  longer  be 
remedied.  Also  served  were  children  needing  protection,  but  re- 
maining with  their  families,  and  children  threatened  by  such 
problems  as  chronic  illness,  marriage  breakdown,  and  homelessness. 


79 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


In  these  cases,  the  department  could  supervise  fostering  arrange- 
ments and  adoptions.  Service  of  this  kind  also  involved  inspecting 
and  licensing  homes  for  children,  day  nurseries,  and  childcare  per- 
sonnel. In  1986  there  were  207  day-care  centers,  164  of  them  pri- 
vately run;  state  and  local  governments  operated  the  rest.  Children 
placed  in  the  state's  care  lived  in  the  department's  four  children's 
homes;  delinquent  youths  (aged  thirteen  to  eighteen)  lived  in  four 
youth  hostels.  There  was  also  a  home  for  retarded  children,  one 
section  of  which  was  reserved  for  retarded  adults. 

Community  work  and  youth  services  involved  the  department 
in  providing  expert  advice,  and  occasionally  financial  assistance, 
to  voluntary  community  and  youth  organizations.  Especially  af- 
ter 1974,  the  department  provided  much  support  for  youth  centers, 
where  recreational  facilities  were  available  for  working  young  peo- 
ple. In  the  late  1980s,  there  were  ninety-eight  of  these  youth  centers, 
eighty-three  of  which  were  run  by  local  governments. 

Social  services  to  other  departments  included  long-term  care  for 
persons  released  from  psychiatric  institutions  and,  on  occasion,  for 
former  medical  patients;  prison  welfare  measures;  and  assistance 
for  students  having  difficulty  adjusting  to  school. 

Public  assistance  was  first  instituted  in  1952  to  reduce  poverty 
by  offering  economic  assistance  to  very  poor  families,  the  aged, 
and  the  disabled.  This  service  was  greatiy  expanded  in  1973,  when 
every  Cypriot  citizen  was  made  eligible  for  financial  assistance  "for 
the  maintenance  of  a  minimum  standard  of  living,  and  the  satis- 
faction of  his  basic  needs,"  and  promised  social  services  for  solv- 
ing "his  personal  problems  and  the  improvement  of  his  living 
conditions."  The  ultimate  objective  of  these  services  was  to  make 
their  recipients  socially  and  economically  self-sufficient.  By  the  time 
of  the  Turkish  invasion  in  1974,  public  assistance  expenditures  were 
minimal,  given  full  employment  and  comparatively  high  living  stan- 
dards. The  years  immediately  after  the  invasion  saw  a  swelling  of 
public  assistance  services.  By  1987,  when  the  economy  was  fully 
restored,  there  were  only  5,087  recipients  of  public  assistance,  half 
of  whom  were  aged  or  disabled. 

Refugees  and  Social  Reconstruction 

During  and  immediately  after  the  1974  invasion,  the  Depart- 
ment of  Social  Welfare  Services  undertook  the  housing,  clothing, 
and  feeding  of  the  180,000  refugees.  The  social  needs  stemming 
from  the  invasion  were  so  great,  however,  that  a  new  agency,  the 
Special  Service  for  the  Care  and  Rehabilitation  of  Displaced  Per- 
sons, was  established  in  September  1974.  Initially  this  agency  con- 
centrated on  emergency  relief  by  distributing  food  and  clothing  and 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


providing  medical  assistance  to  the  refugee  camps.  After  a  few 
months,  it  became  clear  that  the  thousands  of  displaced  people 
would  not  return  to  their  homes  in  the  foreseeable  future.  As  a 
result,  the  agency  gradually  expanded  its  scope,  to  aid  the  reinte- 
gration of  the  displaced  into  the  new  society  forming  in  the  gov- 
ernment-controlled area,  once  their  immediate  physical  survival 
had  been  ensured. 

Housing  for  the  wave  of  refugees  was  initially  provided  by  the 
construction  of  twenty-three  camps  housing  20,000  displaced  per- 
sons in  tents.  Thousands,  however,  remained  outside  the  camps 
in  shacks,  makeshift  barracks,  public  buildings,  and  half- finished 
houses.  By  the  end  of  1975,  the  service  had  replaced  its  tents  with 
wooden  barracks,  built  by  the  occupants  themselves  with  materi- 
als or  money  provided  by  the  service. 

Another  initiative  that  contributed  to  solving  the  refugee  problem 
was  the  Incentive  Scheme  for  the  Reactivation  of  Refugees.  In- 
stituted in  1976,  this  program  provided  financial  incentives  to  help 
refugees  get  back  on  their  feet.  Funds  were  available  to  all  refu- 
gees, but  special  emphasis  was  placed  on  certain  occupational  groups 
that  could  soon  become  economically  self-reliant,  such  as  farmers 
in  remote  areas.  By  fostering  economic  recovery,  the  program  suc- 
cessfully combated  a  culture  of  despair  in  the  refugee  community 
and  spared  the  government  a  considerable  drain  on  its  public  as- 
sistance funds.  Despite  the  magnitude  of  the  refugee  problem,  the 
government  concluded  that  by  1977  its  measures  had  succeeded 
in  rehabilitating  all  groups  affected  by  the  invasion. 

The  Special  Service  for  the  Care  and  Rehabilitation  of  Displaced 
Persons  also  undertook  the  construction  of  low-cost  housing  projects. 
In  the  1975-86  period,  12,500  low-income  families  found  housing 
in  such  projects,  which  also  provided  social  services  in  the  form 
of  day-care  centers,  schools,  and  community  and  commercial 
centers.  Other  government  programs  that  enabled  thousands  of 
refugees  to  live  in  acceptable  housing  involved  "self-housing"  on 
either  private  or  state-owned  land.  In  the  period  1975-86,  nearly 
10,500  houses  were  built  on  private  properties,  and  1 1 ,000  on  state- 
owned  sites,  at  a  cost  to  the  government  of  C£280  million.  By  1987 
more  than  43,000  families,  about  80  percent  of  displaced  persons, 
had  been  housed. 

Once  the  refugee  housing  problem  had  been  resolved,  the  govern- 
ment extended  its  housing  program  to  include  low-  and  middle- 
income  groups,  who  also  faced  serious  housing  problems  because 
of  a  tremendous  increase  in  the  cost  of  land  and  construction. 
Through  a  combination  of  controls  on  the  value  of  land  and  housing 


81 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


loans,  the  government  succeeded  in  significantly  improving  hous- 
ing conditions. 

Also  introduced  were  a  number  of  programs  such  as  child  care 
and  youth  recreation  centers,  hostels  for  the  aged,  assistance  for 
invalids,  and  community  welfare  centers,  all  of  which  were  incor- 
porated in  the  existing  services  of  the  Department  of  Social  Wel- 
fare Services.  In  this  way,  the  objectives  of  social  policy  were 
redefined  as  the  "systematization,  institutionalization,  and  legali- 
zation of  public  assistance,  and  the  reconstruction  of  personal, 
family  and  social  life  in  the  island." 

"The  Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" 

Turkish  Cypriot  society,  in  the  decades  after  World  War  II,  ex- 
perienced a  series  of  trials  almost  cataclysmic  in  scope  and  intensity. 
Earlier,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  minority  had  lived  quiedy  and  securely 
under  British  rule.  During  the  war,  many  Cypriots  left  the  island 
for  the  first  time  to  fight  in  His  Majesty's  forces.  The  burgeoning 
of  Greek  Cypriot  nationalism  in  the  1950s  at  first  only  aroused  mis- 
givings in  Turkish  Cypriots,  but  within  a  few  years  it  drew  them 
into  what  they  saw  as  a  struggle  for  their  survival  as  an  indepen- 
dent community.  In  the  1960s,  Turkish  Cypriots  often  feared  for 
their  physical  survival,  and  fled  into  fortified  enclaves  around  the 
island.  The  Turkish  intervention  of  1974  led  to  the  de  facto  parti- 
tion of  Cyprus,  with  Turkish  Cypriots  controlling  37  percent  of 
its  territory. 

The  partition  disrupted  many  lives,  and  more  than  half  of  the 
Turkish  Cypriots  had  to  abandon  their  homes  and  find  new  places 
of  residence.  Once  in  possession  of  their  own  territory,  they  set 
about  constructing  a  new  state  and  creating  a  functioning  economy. 
Old  habits  and  ways  of  life  had  to  be  discarded,  for  now  all  aspects 
of  society  became  the  responsibility  of  the  Turkish  Cypriots  them- 
selves. Education  expanded,  a  new  professional  class  emerged,  a 
growing  economy  created  new  kinds  of  occupations,  women  left 
their  homes  to  work,  life  in  formerly  isolated  villages  was  altered 
by  the  pull  of  the  urban  areas,  and  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community 
entered  a  phase  of  its  existence  unimaginable  a  generation  earlier. 

Population 

Except  for  a  few  Maronites  in  the  Kormakiti  (Korucam)  area, 
at  the  western  end  of  the  Kyrenia  range,  and  several  hundred  Greek 
Cypriots  in  the  Karpas  Peninsula,  the  people  living  in  the  1  'Turk- 
ish Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC")  were  Turkish 
Cypriots,  descendants  of  Turks  who  settled  in  Cyprus  following 
the  Ottoman  conquest  in  1571 .  As  a  result  of  the  Ottoman  conquest, 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  ethnic  and  cultural  composition  of  Cyprus  changed  drastically. 
Although  the  island  had  been  ruled  by  Venetians,  its  population 
was  mostly  Greek.  Turkish  rule  brought  an  influx  of  settlers  speak- 
ing a  different  language  and  entertaining  other  cultural  traditions 
and  beliefs.  In  accordance  with  the  decree  of  Sultan  Selim  II,  some 
5,720  households  left  Turkey  from  the  Karaman,  I  eel,  Yozgat, 
Alanya,  Antalya,  and  Aydin  regions  of  Anatolia  and  migrated  to 
Cyprus.  The  Turkish  migrants  were  largely  farmers,  but  some 
earned  their  livelihoods  as  shoemakers,  tailors,  weavers,  cooks,  ma- 
sons, tanners,  jewelers,  miners,  and  workers  in  other  trades.  In 
addition,  some  12,000  soldiers,  4,000  cavalrymen,  and  20,000 
former  soldiers  and  their  families  stayed  in  Cyprus. 

The  Ottoman  Empire  allowed  its  non-Muslim  ethnic  commu- 
nities (or  millets,  from  the  Arabic  word  for  religion,  millah)  a  degree 
of  autonomy  if  they  paid  their  taxes  and  were  obedient  subjects. 
The  millet  system  permitted  Greek  Cypriots  to  remain  in  their  vil- 
lages and  maintain  their  traditional  institutions.  The  Turkish  im- 
migrants often  lived  by  themselves  in  new  settlements,  but  many 
lived  in  the  same  villages  as  Greek  Cypriots.  For  the  next  four  cen- 
turies, the  two  communities  lived  side  by  side  throughout  the  is- 
land. Despite  this  physical  proximity,  each  ethnic  community  had 
its  own  culture  and  there  was  litde  intermingling.  Both  communi- 
ties, for  example,  considered  interethnic  marriage  taboo,  although 
it  did  sometimes  occur.  Also,  in  spite  of  relations  that  were  often 
cordial,  there  was  little  possibility  of  serious  intimacy  between  the 
two  communities.  In  fact,  according  to  the  American  psychologist, 
Vamik  Volkan,  the  two  groups  seemed  to  have  a  psychological  need 
to  remain  separate  from  each  other. 

Until  the  island  came  under  British  administration  in  1878,  there 
were  only  rough  estimates  of  Cyprus' s  population  and  its  ethnic 
breakdown.  In  more  recent  times,  population  figures  became  highly 
controversial  after  it  was  agreed  that  the  government  established 
in  1960  was  to  be  staffed  at  a  70-to-30  ratio  of  Greek  and  Turkish 
Cypriots,  although  the  latter  made  up  only  18  to  20  percent  of  the 
island's  population.  For  this  reason,  the  population  figures  were 
a  vital  issue  in  the  island's  government,  likely  to  affect  any  far- 
reaching  political  settlements  in  the  1990s. 

About  40,000  to  60,000  Turks  lived  on  Cyprus  in  the  late  six- 
teenth century,  according  to  Ottoman  migration  figures.  In  the 
eighteenth  century,  the  British  consul  in  Syria,  DeVezin,  believed 
that  the  Turkish  population  on  the  island  outnumbered  the  Greek 
population  by  a  ratio  of  two  to  one.  According  to  his  estimates, 
the  Greek  Cypriots  numbered  between  20,000  to  30,000  and  the 
Turkish  population  around  60,000.  Not  all  historians  accept  his 


83 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

estimate,  however.  If  there  was  a  Turkish  majority,  it  did  not  last. 
By  the  time  of  the  first  British  census  of  the  island  in  1881,  Greek 
Cypriots  numbered  140,000  and  Turkish  Cypriots  42,638.  One 
reason  suggested  for  the  small  number  of  Turkish  Cypriots  was 
that  many  of  them  sold  their  property  and  migrated  to  mainland 
Turkey  when  the  island  was  placed  under  British  administration 
according  to  the  Cyprus  Convention  of  1878. 

There  was  a  significant  Turkish  Cypriot  exodus  from  the  island 
between  1950  and  1974  when  thousands  left  the  island,  mainly  for 
Britain  and  Australia.  The  migration  had  two  phases.  The  first 
lasted  from  1950  to  1960,  when  Turkish  Cypriots  benefited  from 
liberal  British  immigration  policies  as  the  island  gained  its  indepen- 
dence and  many  Turkish  Cypriots  settled  in  London.  Emigration 
would  have  been  higher  in  this  period  had  there  not  been  pressure 
from  the  Turkish  Cypriot  leadership  to  remain  in  Cyprus  and  par- 
ticipate in  building  the  new  republic. 

The  second  and  more  intense  phase  of  Turkish  Cypriot  emigra- 
tion began  after  intercommunal  strife  increased  in  late  1963.  Liv- 
ing conditions  for  Turkish  Cypriots  worsened  as  about  25,000  of 
them,  faced  with  Greek  Cypriot  violence,  gathered  in  several  en- 
claves around  the  island.  In  addition,  all  Turkish  Cypriots  work- 
ing for  the  government  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  lost  their  civil 
service  positions.  Aid  from  Turkey  allowed  those  in  the  enclaves 
to  survive,  but  life  at  a  subsistence  level  and  the  constant  threat 
of  violence  caused  numerous  Turkish  Cypriots  to  leave  for  a  bet- 
ter life  abroad.  As  before,  most  emigrants  left  for  Australia  and 
Britain,  but  some  settled  in  Turkey.  By  1972  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
population  had  declined  to  around  78,000,  and  prospects  for  the 
community's  survival  on  the  island  looked  bleak. 

After  the  de  facto  partition  of  the  island  in  1974,  Turkish  Cypriots 
began  to  return  to  Cyprus,  and  the  decline  was  reversed.  In  addi- 
tion, some  20,000  Turkish  guest  workers  moved  to  the  island  to 
revive  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy.  Many  of  these  workers  even- 
tually decided  to  remain  permanently  and  take  "TRNC"  citizen- 
ship. Some  immigration  from  Turkey  continued  in  subsequent 
years.  Largely  as  a  result  of  this  dual  immigration,  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  population  totaled  167,256  in  1988,  according  to  the 
' '  TRNC ' '  State  Planning  Organisation . 

The  average  annual  rate  of  population  increase  during  the  peri- 
od 1978-87  was  1.3  percent.  In  1987  the  rate  was  1.5  percent. 
Despite  the  smallness  of  most  age  cohorts  (that  is,  those  born 
in  a  particular  year)  born  in  the  1970s  (a  probable  reflection  of 
the  decade's  turbulence),  more  than  half  the  population  was  less 
than  twenty-five  years  of  age  (see  fig.  6).  The  age-sex  distribution 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


matched  standard  patterns,  with  males  in  the  majority  in  the  first 
few  decades,  and  women  in  the  majority  thereafter. 

Ethnicity 

Traditionally,  both  Cypriot  communities  were  very  conscious 
of  their  languages,  cultures,  and  histories.  Turkish  Cypriots  thought 
of  themselves  as  Turks  living  on  Cyprus  and  as  members  of  the 
larger  Turkish  nation.  Greek  Cypriots  believed  that  their  language, 
history,  culture  and  Orthodox  religion  made  them  part  of  the  larger 
Greek  nation.  It  is  probably  not  an  exaggeration  to  say  that  over 
the  centuries,  neither  group  accepted  the  equality  of  the  other's 
language,  culture,  ethnicity,  and  religion.  Despite  the  separate  lives 
of  the  two  communities,  however,  some  degree  of  cross-cultural 
development  did  occur.  Furthermore,  both  the  Greek  and  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  were  strongly  attached  to  their  island,  and  they  dis- 
tinguished themselves  from  foreigners,  including  mainland  Greeks 
and  Turks. 

One  can  observe  a  great  irony  in  Cypriot  self- identification.  On 
the  one  hand,  the  two  communities  were  proud  to  identify  them- 
selves with  their  respective  greater  nations.  On  the  other  hand,  both 
shared  the  belief  that  they  were  socially  more  progressive  (better 
educated  and  less  conservative)  and  therefore  distinct  from  the  main- 
landers.  Thus,  until  the  events  of  1963,  which  led  to  a  strict  sepa- 
ration of  the  two  communities,  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots  lived 
side  by  side  in  a  love-hate  relationship.  The  two  communities  had 
borrowed  some  customs  and  ways  of  living  from  one  another,  and 
to  some  degree  a  recognizable  '  'Cypriot  feeling"  had  developed 
over  the  centuries,  distinguishing  Cypriots  from  their  cousins  in 
Greece  and  Turkey.  Generally,  one  did  not  know  to  which  com- 
munity a  Cypriot  belonged  until  he  or  she  spoke.  Yet  the  two  com- 
munities viewed  each  other  with  some  suspicion  and  dislike. 
Tragically,  however,  a  deepening  of  shared  feelings  was  preclud- 
ed by  the  events  of  late  1963.  After  these  events,  Greek  and  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  lived  separately,  and  their  offspring  grew  up  with  no 
intercommunal  contact. 

Broadly,  three  main  forces — education,  British  colonial  practices, 
and  secularization  accompanying  economic  development — can  be 
held  responsible  for  transforming  two  ethnic  communities  into  two 
national  ones.  Education  was  perhaps  the  most  important,  for  it 
affected  Cypriots  during  childhood  and  youth,  the  period  of  greatest 
susceptibility  to  outside  influences.  The  two  communities  adopted 
the  educational  policies  of  Greece  and  Turkey,  respectively,  result- 
ing in  the  nationalist  indoctrination  of  their  youth.  The  schools  polar- 
ized Cypriots  in  at  least  two  ways.  The  segregated  school  systems 


85 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


65  and  over 

■ 

y///////////. 

'////A 

V///A 

'/A 

60-64 

'////////A 

55-59 

 ■  ^■■■^^■■B 

y///////A 

50-54 

y/////////A 

45-49 

MALE 

'//////{/////, 

\  FI 

EMAL 

=s 

40-44 

■I 

y////>//////T 

35-39 

IZ 

y////////////y/A 

30-34 

■ 

>///////////)/////A 

25-29 

y/////^///////////////// 

F 

20-24 

y//////////)/////)//////. 

15-19 

'/////>/////?//////, 

10-14 

y/////<y///)/y//A 

5-9 

0-4 

mmmmm 

y/////S/////{//////////// 

I            I            I            I            I            I            I            I  I 

10      8       64       2       02468  10 
POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  State  Plan- 
ning Organisation,  Statistics  and  Research  Department,  Statistical  Yearbook,  1988, 
Nicosia,  1989,  12. 


Figure  6.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus  ":  Population  by  Age  and 
Sex,  1989 

of  the  colonial  and  postindependence  period  socialized  students  into 
Greek  and  Turkish  ethnicity,  teaching  mainland  speech,  culture, 
folklore,  and  nationalist  myths.  The  texts  used  in  these  schools  also 
included  ethnic  propaganda,  often  highly  chauvinistic,  with  each 
community  emphasizing  its  superiority  over  the  other. 

British  colonial  policies  also  promoted  ethnic  polarization.  The 
British  applied  the  principle  of  "divide  and  rule,"  setting  the  two 
groups  against  each  other  to  prevent  combined  action  against  colonial 
rule.  For  example,  when  Greek  Cypriots  rebelled  in  the  1950s,  the 
colonial  administration  established  an  all-Turkish  police  force, 
known  as  the  Auxiliary  Police,  to  combat  Greek  Cypriots.  This 
and  similar  practices  contributed  to  intercommunal  animosity. 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Secularization  also  fostered  ethnic  nationalism.  Although  eco- 
nomic development  and  increased  education  reduced  the  explicit- 
ly religious  characteristics  of  the  two  communities,  the  growth  of 
nationalism  on  the  two  mainlands  increased  the  significance  of  other 
differences.  Turkish  nationalism  was  at  the  core  of  the  revolution- 
ary program  promoted  by  the  father  of  modern  Turkey,  Kemal 
Atatiirk  (1881-1938),  and  affected  Turkish  Cypriots  who  followed 
his  principles.  President  of  the  Republic  of  Turkey  from  1923  to 
1938,  Atatiirk  attempted  to  build  a  new  nation  on  the  ruins  of  the 
Ottoman  Empire  and  elaborated  a  program  of  six  principles  (the 
"Six  Arrows")  to  do  so.  His  principles  of  secularism  (laicism)  and 
nationalism  reduced  Islam's  role  in  the  everyday  life  of  individu- 
als and  emphasized  Turkish  identity  as  the  main  source  of  nation- 
alism. Traditional  education  with  a  religious  foundation  was 
discarded  and  replaced  with  one  that  followed  secular  principles 
and,  shorn  of  Arab  and  Persian  influences,  was  purely  Turkish. 
Turkish  Cypriots  quickly  adopted  the  secular  program  of  Turkish 
nationalism.  Under  Ottoman  rule,  Turkish  Cypriots  had  been  clas- 
sified as  Muslims,  a  distinction  based  on  religion;  Atatiirk' s  pro- 
gram made  their  Turkishness  paramount  and  further  reinforced 
their  division  from  their  Greek  Cypriot  neighbors. 

Ethnic  Values  and  Attitudes 

American  sociologists  Marvin  Gerst  and  James  H.  Tenzel  studied 
both  ethnic  communities  in  the  early  1970s,  after  a  decade  of  the 
postindependence  struggle.  Gerst  and  Tenzel  focused  mainly  on 
the  psychological  grounds  of  ethnic  conflict.  One  survey  instru- 
ment used  in  their  interviews  with  several  hundred  Cypriots  mea- 
sured perceptions  of  one's  own  and  the  opposing  ethnic  group;  the 
results  were  then  standardized  in  reference  to  a  third  group,  Ameri- 
can males.  Although  both  Cypriot  groups  varied  considerably  from 
the  American  statistical  norms,  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots  had 
similar  scores  as  regards  their  own  behavior  and  perceptions  of  the 
other  community  as  acting  according  to  a  shared  list  of  generally 
negative  behavior  traits. 

The  Turkish  Cypriots  scored  as  patient,  obliging,  stability  seek- 
ing, thorough,  self-effacing,  dependent,  mannerly,  tactful,  less  self- 
aggrandizing,  and  more  open  to  reasonable  argument.  Tenzel  and 
Gerst  described  the  Turkish  Cypriots  as  hierarchical,  patriarchal, 
and  authoritarian — characteristics  of  a  society  in  which  roles  are 
clearly  defined.  Turkish  Cypriots  regarded  public  service  as  a  more 
prestigious  though  ill-paying  occupation  than  a  successful  business 
career.  As  psychologist  Vamik  Volkan  also  argued,  these  roles  were 


87 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

instilled  in  childhood:  Turkish  Cypriot  child  care  favored  imita- 
tive, docile  behavior  and  discouraged  activity,  curiosity,  and  talka- 
tiveness. 

The  psychological  and  behavioral  differences  between  the  two 
communities  were  perceived  as  extremely  negative  stereotypes  by 
the  other.  Greek  Cypriots,  for  example,  scored  as  assertive  in  the 
survey  done  by  Gerst  and  Tenzel.  This  quality  appeared  as  impo- 
lite aggressiveness  to  Turkish  Cypriots.  Greek  Cypriots,  on  the  other 
hand,  viewed  the  Turkish  Cypriot  attention  to  manners  and  proce- 
dures as  dullness  and  lack  of  ambition.  In  the  context  of  inter- 
ethnic  conflict,  each  group  denied  the  goodness  of  the  other  and 
pointed  to  examples  illustrating  these  differing  norms  to  "prove" 
the  identical  charges  of  aggression,  brutality,  and  stubbornness. 

Language 

The  Turkish  dialect  spoken  by  Turkish  Cypriots  is  closely  related 
to  other  dialects  of  Anatolia,  but  distinct  from  the  urban  dialects 
of  Istanbul,  Ankara,  and  Izmir.  Turkish  Cypriots  faced  few  difficul- 
ties communicating  with  mainland  Turks.  The  differences  that  exist 
are  much  less  significant  than  those  found  between  Turkish  and 
other  Turkic  languages  of  Central  Asia.  Atatiirk's  language  and 
educational  reforms  brought  sweeping  changes  in  standard  Turk- 
ish. A  Latin  alphabet  was  introduced  in  place  of  the  Arabic  script, 
and  the  heavily  Arabicized  and  Persianized  court  dialect  was  re- 
jected as  the  basis  for  standardization.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  com- 
munity was  the  only  Turkish  minority  in  former  Ottoman  territories 
outside  mainland  Turkey  to  quickly  adopt  Atatiirk's  linguistic 
changes  as  well  as  the  other  revolutionary  principles  of  his  program. 

Social  Structure 

The  structure  of  Turkish  Cypriot  society  changed  dramatically 
during  the  twentieth  century,  especially  after  World  War  II.  The 
main  force  for  change  was  the  growth  of  a  modern  and  prosperous 
economy  that  required  a  variety  of  occupations,  encouraged  ur- 
banization, made  education  more  accessible,  and  permitted  more 
contact  with  the  outside  world.  The  de  facto  partition  of  the  island 
in  1974  also  strongly  changed  how  Turkish  Cypriots  lived.  The 
evolution  of  a  Western- style  family  out  of  the  traditional  family 
structure  was  perhaps  the  most  socially  significant  of  these  changes. 

Urban-Rural  Composition 

When  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  was  established  in  1960,  60  percent 
of  Turkish  Cypriots  lived  in  villages.  The  rest  lived  in  the  five  ur- 
ban centers  of  Nicosia  (Lefkosa),  Famagusta  (Gazimagusa),  Larnaca, 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Limassol,  and  Paphos.  Few  Turkish  Cypriots  lived  in  Kyrenia 
(Girne).  During  the  period  of  intercommunal  conflict,  the  urban- 
rural  distribution  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  population  was  unclear 
because  of  the  thousands  of  refugees  living  in  tents  and  temporary 
shelters.  After  the  de  facto  division  of  the  island  in  1974,  however, 
there  was  a  gradual  change  in  the  urban-rural  ratio.  By  the  late 
1980s,  51  percent  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  population  lived  in  ur- 
ban areas.  Given  the  small  number  of  Turkish  Cypriots,  however, 
urban  centers  were  not  large.  As  of  1987,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  sec- 
tion of  Nicosia  had  only  about  38,000  inhabitants,  Famagusta 
20,000,  and  Kyrenia  7,100. 

One  reason  for  increased  urbanization  was  the  resettlement  pro- 
gram after  1974,  which  placed  refugees  from  territory  controlled 
by  the  government  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  in  houses  previous- 
ly occupied  by  Greek  Cypriots  in  the  urban  areas  of  Kyrenia,  Mor- 
phou  (Guzelyurt),  and  Famagusta.  Immigrants  from  Turkey  were 
largely  settied  in  villages. 

Resettlement  was  an  extensive  process  that  directly  involved 
about  two-thirds  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  population.  According  to 
some  estimates,  about  60,000  Turkish  Cypriots  moved  from  their 
places  of  residence  following  the  establishment  of  a  cease-fire  in 
1974.  Most  managed  to  move  behind  Turkish  military  lines  on 
their  own.  Others,  however,  required  international  agreements  or 
diplomatic  initiatives  in  order  to  join  their  ethnic  community.  About 
9,400  Turkish  Cypriots  took  refuge  in  the  British  base  areas. 
Another  8, 100  came  to  territory  controlled  by  Turkish  forces  after 
negotiations  between  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  leaders 
under  United  Nations  (UN)  auspices  resulted  in  an  agreement  to 
exchange  populations.  Although  all  Turkish  Cypriots  moved  to 
areas  controlled  by  their  community,  not  all  Greek  Cypriots 
returned  to  areas  controlled  by  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Most  of 
these  Greek  Cypriots  lived  in  the  Karpas  Peninsula. 

The  growth  in  the  urban  sector  also  reflected  a  changed  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  economy.  In  1960  agriculture  employed  nearly  half  of 
all  Turkish  Cypriots.  By  1990  this  sector  accounted  for  well  under 
a  third  of  the  work  force;  about  half  of  economically  active  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  earned  their  livelihoods  in  the  service  sector  and  one- 
fifth  in  construction  and  industry.  Except  for  agricultural  work, 
most  employment  was  in  urban  areas. 

Despite  the  marked  decline  in  agricultural  employment,  at  the 
end  of  the  1980s,  49  percent  of  Turkish  Cypriots  still  lived  in  areas 
classified  as  rural.  Urbanization  was  not  as  extensive  as  suggested 
by  employment  figures.  The  discrepancy  resulted  from  the  small 
size  of  the  "TRNC."  Many  of  those  who  worked  in  urban  areas 


89 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


were  able  to  remain  in  their  villages  because  the  distance  between 
most  villages  and  urban  centers  was  less  than  an  hour's  drive  by 
car.  Workers  did  not  migrate  to  areas  of  employment,  but  instead 
commuted.  As  a  result  of  such  commuting,  other  urban  develop- 
ments, such  as  changes  in  attitudes  toward  education  and  social 
values,  were  more  easily  diffused  than  otherwise  would  have  been 
the  case. 

Class  Structure 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  class  structure  changed  markedly  after 
1974.  During  the  colonial  and  pre- 1963  independence  years,  most 
Turkish  Cypriots  lived  in  rural  areas  and  engaged  in  farming. 
Others  living  in  urban  areas  were  mostly  employed  by  the  civil 
service.  Very  few  Turkish  Cypriots  engaged  in  business.  Under 
these  conditions,  one  found  the  following  social  classes  in  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  community:  large  landowners  (descendants  of  the  Ot- 
toman administrators),  bureaucrats,  a  small  class  of  professionals, 
and  peasants/farmers. 

Once  Turkish  Cypriots  had  created  their  own  government  and 
economy,  they  began  to  enter  new  occupations,  altering  the  class 
structure  of  their  community.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  there 
were  many  more  Turkish  Cypriot  businessmen  than  there  had  been 
a  generation  earlier,  and  many  others  were  highly  trained  profes- 
sionals because  of  the  marked  expansion  of  higher  education.  The 
old  landed  aristocracy  no  longer  accounted  for  all  wealthy  Turk- 
ish Cypriots.  This  class  was  joined  by  the  new  rich,  who  had  eco- 
nomic ties  to  the  outside  world.  Although  such  developments  should 
have  contributed  to  the  rise  of  middle-income  groups  among  the 
Turkish  Cypriots,  the  economic  difficulties  faced  by  the  new  state 
(most  significandy  high  inflation)  seriously  eroded  the  real  incomes 
of  the  middle  class,  most  of  whom  were  civil  servants. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  most  Turkish  Cypriots  were 
neither  wealthy  nor  had  professional  occupations.  The  majority 
were  wage  earners,  working  in  small  production  units  or  at  rou- 
tine clerical  and  service  jobs.  About  one-fourth  of  the  work  force 
was  engaged  in  farming. 

Marriage  and  Family 

Turkish  Cypriots  were  generally  concerned  with  promoting  the 
honor,  prestige,  and  economic  prosperity  of  their  families.  A  major 
part  of  the  thought,  energy,  and  income  of  the  family  went  to 
educating  children,  marrying  them  well,  and  helping  them  find 
good  jobs.  More  than  in  most  Western  societies,  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots were  conscious  of  their  family  as  a  whole  and  identified  strongly 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


with  how  its  individual  members  fared  as  part  of  this  whole. 
However,  socio-economic  changes  in  recent  decades  have  led  to 
the  existence  of  two  types  of  families  in  Turkish  Cypriot  society: 
traditional  and  largely  rural,  and  modern  and  urban. 

The  traditional  family  maintained  strong  links  between  the 
nuclear  or  core  family  and  the  extended  family.  The  extended  fam- 
ily included  the  parents'  siblings  and  their  children,  grandparents, 
and  in  many  cases  second  and  third  cousins.  Within  this  family 
network,  financial  and  social  support  were  key  links  among  the 
members.  When  one  of  the  extended  family  suffered  economic  hard- 
ship, that  person  could  expect  aid  from  able  relatives.  It  was  also 
common  to  help  relatives  in  the  field  or  on  the  farm. 

The  nuclear  or  core  traditional  family  might  include  not  only 
the  husband  and  wife  and  their  unmarried  children,  but  also  a  newly 
married  son  and  his  family,  and  sometimes  the  mother's  parents. 
The  presence  of  the  mother's  parents  in  the  core  family  was  an 
important  variation  from  the  traditional  Turkish  family  structure, 
in  which  the  husband's  parents  lived  with  the  family. 

According  to  traditional  Turkish  family  structure,  the  bride  mar- 
ried into  the  groom's  family  and  became  virtually  a  servant  to  the 
household.  The  legitimation  of  the  bride's  lower  status  was  found 
in  the  custom  of  baslik  parasi  (bonnet  money)  practiced  in  tradi- 
tional Turkish  society  and  reintroduced  into  Cyprus  by  some  Turk- 
ish settiers  after  1974.  According  to  this  custom,  money  or  valuable 
goods  were  paid  to  the  bride's  father  by  the  bridegroom  and  his 
family.  If  the  bridegroom  was  unable  to  meet  the  amount  speci- 
fied by  the  bride's  father,  the  marriage  could  not  occur.  In  this 
practice,  the  money  paid  to  the  father  did  not  go  toward  helping 
the  newlyweds  in  any  form.  Rather,  the  money  stayed  with  the 
girl's  father.  Widely  practiced  in  rural  Turkey,  the  custom  frequent- 
ly results  in  the  marriages  of  unwilling  brides.  The  long  absence 
of  this  custom  among  Turkish  Cypriots  was  a  sign  of  women's  more 
secure  and  higher  status  on  the  island. 

Turkish  Cypriots  employed  a  different  form  of  financial  arrange- 
ment in  marriages,  drahoma,  a  dowry  custom  of  Greek  Cypriot  ori- 
gin. It  is  probable  that  over  the  centuries  the  Turkish  Cypriots 
recognized  the  advantages  of  this  custom  and  adapted  it  to  their 
own  needs.  Drahoma,  as  practiced  by  Greek  Cypriots,  required  that 
the  bride's  family  provide  substantial  assistance  to  the  newlyweds. 
Turkish  Cypriots  modified  it  to  include  assistance  from  both  fam- 
ilies. Traditionally,  the  bride's  family  provided  a  house,  some  fur- 
niture, and  money  as  part  of  their  daughter's  dowry.  The 
bridegroom's  family  met  the  young  couple's  remaining  housing 
needs.  If  the  bride's  family  was  unable  to  provide  such  assistance, 


91 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


the  young  couple  lived  with  the  bride's  family  until  they  saved 
enough  money  to  set  up  their  own  separate  household.  Lastly,  the 
bride  brought  to  her  new  home  the  rest  of  her  dowry,  known  as 
cehiz,  making  the  new  family  financially  more  secure.  The  advan- 
tages of  drahoma  were  so  obvious  to  the  Turkish  Cypriot  commu- 
nity that  modern  families  also  practiced  it. 

In  the  traditional  Turkish  Cypriot  family,  the  father  had  the  last 
word  in  his  children's  choice  of  spouses.  Customarily,  the  bride 
and  groom  did  not  have  a  chance  for  individual  visits  prior  to  their 
engagement.  Usually,  an  elderly  member  of  the  suitor's  family  went 
to  the  young  woman's  parents  and  asked  for  her  hand  in  mar- 
riage. If  her  father  agreed,  gifts  were  exchanged  between  the  two 
families  and  the  engagement  took  place. 

Originally,  the  wedding  ceremonies  for  the  bridegroom  and  bride 
occurred  separately.  Turkish  Cypriots  no  longer  practiced  this  cus- 
tom. Only  the  Turkish  rural  migrants  to  Cyprus  continued  the  tra- 
dition of  separate  ceremonies.  In  rural  Turkish  Cypriot  society, 
the  bride  and  bridegroom  attended  the  same  ceremony  and  the  fes- 
tivities lasted  for  several  days. 

Women  of  traditional  families  generally  did  not  work  outside 
the  home.  It  was  their  responsibility  to  tend  to  the  traditional  domes- 
tic tasks,  while  husbands  and  sons  dealt  with  business  and  other 
concerns  outside  the  home. 

In  contrast  to  the  traditional  family,  the  modern  family  struc- 
ture revolved  around  the  nuclear  family  and  had  a  distinctly  ur- 
ban character.  Although  maintaining  close  social  ties  with  the 
extended  family,  members  of  the  nuclear  family  remained  econom- 
ically isolated  from  other  relatives.  There  were  joint  economic  re- 
lations among  nuclear  and  extended  family  members,  but  they  were 
far  less  common  than  with  the  traditional  family. 

Another  important  difference  between  traditional  and  modern 
families  was  that  marriage  was  not  under  the  strict  control  of  the 
father.  Young  couples  often  decided  on  marriage  themselves. 
Although  dating,  as  practiced  in  the  United  States,  was  not  com- 
mon even  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  couples  met  together  in 
small  groups  of  friends.  Once  a  couple  decided  to  marry,  both  sets 
of  parents  were  consulted.  The  families  then  arranged  the  engage- 
ment and  marriage.  As  noted,  drahoma  was  also  practiced  by  modern 
urban  families. 

The  modern  family  usually  consisted  of  only  the  husband,  wife, 
and  unmarried  children.  Large  multigenerational  extended  fami- 
lies were  unusual.  Although  the  husband  continued  even  in  the 
1980s  to  have  a  strong  decision-making  role,  the  wife  became  in- 
creasingly involved  in  the  family's  economic  and  social  choices. 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


A  major  factor  in  the  wife's  changing  family  role  was  the  fact  that 
she  also  worked  outside  the  home  to  support  the  family. 

Working  wives  and  mothers  were  a  relatively  new  phenomenon 
in  Turkish  Cypriot  society.  Until  the  post- 19 74  period,  few  women 
worked  outside  the  home  and  even  fewer  had  professional  educa- 
tions. Men's  earnings  had  to  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  needs  of 
their  families,  and  women  typically  remained  home  and  focused 
their  efforts  on  raising  their  children. 

After  the  1974  war,  this  traditional  arrangement  lost  its  pre- 
dominance. Once  Turkish  Cypriots  established  a  government  of 
their  own,  they  faced  immense  difficulties  in  managing  its  institu- 
tions and  creating  a  functioning  economy.  Adding  to  the  intrinsic 
difficulties  of  these  tasks  were  the  lack  of  international  recognition 
of  their  state  and  the  Greek  Cypriot  economic  blockade.  Under 
these  circumstances,  women's  participation  in  the  work  force  be- 
came essential  to  meet  both  their  state's  and  their  families'  needs. 
Building  a  new  state  required  officials  to  hire  trained  personnel 
of  both  sexes  to  fill  positions  in  the  bureaucracy.  As  a  result,  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  women  came  to  be  employed  outside  the  home  to  a 
much  greater  extent  than  previously. 

Women's  absence  from  home  worked  a  hardship  on  families  with 
children.  For  the  first  time,  child  care  became  a  serious  issue  in 
Turkish  Cypriot  society.  Day-care  centers  were  established  in  many 
cases,  but  when  centers  were  unavailable,  grandparents  frequent- 
ly helped  care  for  their  children's  offspring.  The  emergence  of  the 
child-care  problem  was  an  unfortunate  result  of  women's  employ- 
ment. It  was  an  indication,  however,  that  the  structure  of  many 
Turkish  Cypriot  families  in  urban  areas  had  become  Westernized. 

Divorce  was  legal  in  the  "TRNC. "  During  the  first  eight  years 
of  the  1980s,  the  number  of  divorces  increased  from  149  in  1980 
to  177  in  1987.  The  increase  was  slightly  higher  than  the  increase 
in  marriages,  which  went  from  1,058  in  1981,  to  1,162  in  1987. 
Incompatibility  was  the  cause  given  for  about  90  percent  of  divorces. 
The  highest  frequency  of  divorce  occurred  in  the  first  year  of 
marriage. 

Religion 

Nearly  all  Turkish  Cypriots  were  followers  of  Islam,  but,  un- 
like most  predominandy  Muslim  societies,  the  "TRNC"  was  a 
secular  state,  as  specified  in  the  first  article  of  the  1985  constitu- 
tion. There  was  no  state  religion,  and  Turkish  Cypriots  were  free 
to  choose  their  own  religion.  Religious  leaders  had  little  influence 
in  politics,  and  religious  instruction,  although  available  in  schools, 
was  not  obligatory.  The  few  Greek  Cypriots  who  lived  in  the 


93 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


"TRNC"  were  free  to  follow  their  Greek  Orthodox  faith.  The  tiny 
Maronite  community  had  its  Christian  Maronite  Church.  In  ad- 
dition, there  were  Anglican  and  Roman  Catholic  churches. 

The  position  of  Islam  and  Islamic  institutions  in  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  community  differed  from  the  position  of  Greek  Orthodoxy 
among  Greek  Cypriots.  In  contrast  to  the  Greek  Cypriot  millet's 
ethnarch,  there  was  no  Islamic  religious  figure  with  political  pow- 
er. Whereas  the  Church  of  Cyprus  was  intimately  identified  with 
Greek  nationalism  and  the  campaign  for  enosis,  Islam  played  vir- 
tually no  role  in  Turkish  Cypriot  nationalism.  The  great  figure 
of  this  latter  movement  was  Atatiirk,  a  man  famous  for  secularism, 
and  in  many  respects  the  polar  opposite  of  Archbishop  Makarios 
III,  who  was  both  a  religious  and  political  leader.  It  was  Atatiirk 
who  established  the  secular  Turkish  state,  which  has  generally  ad- 
hered to  his  doctrines  ever  since.  Although  Atatiirk  had  no  juris- 
diction over  Cyprus,  Turkish  Cypriots  adopted  most  of  his  program 
voluntarily  and  with  little  controversy.  Turkish  Cypriots  were 
among  the  first  to  adopt  Atatiirk' s  prohibition  of  Arabic  in  reli- 
gious services  and  to  use  the  Quran  in  Turkish  translation.  Since 
Atatiirk' s  death,  Turkish  Cypriots  have  usually  followed  the  reli- 
gious practices  of  Turkey.  When  in  1951,  for  example,  Turkish 
authorities  once  again  allowed  the  use  of  the  Quran  in  Arabic  and 
directed  that  the  call  to  prayers  also  be  in  Arabic,  Turkish  Cypriots 
followed  suit.  Despite  these  lapses  from  Atatiirk' s  policies,  both 
Turkey  and  the  "TRNC"  remained  fundamentally  secular. 

The  Islamic  faith  arose  from  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet  Mu- 
hammad in  Arabia  in  the  seventh  century.  It  is  based  on  a 
monotheistic  belief  in  God  (Allah)  as  all-powerful  in  the  universe 
and  in  human  subservience  to  God's  will.  All  devout  persons  should 
submit  to  the  divinely  willed  plan;  the  word  Muslim  means  one 
who  has  surrendered  to  God's  will.  This  will  has  been  made  known 
through  the  prophets,  including  those  of  the  Old  Testament  and 
Jesus,  with  Muhammad  being  the  last  of  them.  The  Quran,  held 
to  have  been  revealed  by  God  to  Muhammad  and  dictated  by  him 
to  scribes,  is  thus  a  guide  to  practical  living  and  the  basis  for  law 
covering  all  spheres  of  life. 

The  principal  religious  observances,  often  known  as  the  five  pil- 
lars of  Islam,  are  the  profession  of  faith  that  "there  is  no  God  but 
God  and  Muhammad  is  his  messenger' ' ;  daily  prayer;  fasting  dur- 
ing the  month  of  Ramadan  when  the  Quran  was  revealed;  alms- 
giving; and  once  in  one's  lifetime,  if  feasible,  the  pilgrimage  to 
Mecca,  the  birthplace  of  Muhammad  and  eventual  home  of  his 
community  of  disciples.  The  daily  prayers  are  called  from  the 
minaret  of  the  mosque  at  dawn,  noon,  midafternoon,  sunset,  and 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


early  evening.  Devout  Muslim  males  also  attend  community  prayer 
services  at  the  mosque  on  Friday,  the  weekly  holy  day. 

Turkish  Cypriots,  like  most  Turkish  nationals,  are  followers  of 
Sunni  Islam.  After  the  Prophet's  death,  his  followers  split  over  the 
question  of  the  method  of  choosing  his  successors.  The  Sunnis  (from 
sunnah,  tradition)  argued  that  Muhammad  had  prescribed  no  defini- 
tive procedure;  the  Shias  (from  Shiat  Ali,  party  of  Ali)  insisted  that 
his  designation  of  his  cousin  and  son-in-law  Ali  established  a  heredi- 
tary succession.  Basic  questions  of  theology  and  practice  deepened 
the  split.  Sunnis  consider  the  Quran  and  the  hadith,  a  separate  col- 
lection of  the  sayings  and  deeds  of  Muhmamad,  to  be  a  complete, 
comprehensive,  and  eternally  correct  source  of  religious  guidance 
requiring  only  deductive  elaboration  by  scholars.  Shias  accept  an 
additional  body  of  esoteric  lore  handed  down  by  Muhammad  to 
Ali,  which  may  be  revealed  and  expanded  by  divinely  inspired 
Imams  who  were  descendants  of  Ali.  Within  Sunni  Islam,  Tur- 
kish Cypriots  have  traditionally  followed  the  Hanafi  school  of  le- 
gal interpretation,  a  rather  austere  variety  of  Islam. 

Evkaf  Idaresi  (Turkish  Religious  Trust,  usually  known  as  Ev- 
kaf)  was  the  prime  institutional  representative  of  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot  community.  Until  1915  it  was  governed  by  delegates  chosen  by 
the  sultan  and  the  British,  with  the  Turkish  delegate  generally  ex- 
ercising wide  discretion;  after  formal  annexation  of  the  island,  the 
British  appointed  both  delegates.  The  Evkaf  functioned  during  the 
colonial  period  as  a  government  department.  However,  in  the  in- 
tensely nationalistic  period  before  independence,  control  was  given 
to  a  new  elective  council,  and  the  constitution  of  1960  assigned  re- 
ligious matters  as  one  of  the  major  powers  of  the  new  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot  Communal  Chamber.  Since  1973,  the  Evkaf  has  been  an 
independent  foundation  with  its  own  budget,  insulated  to  some  ex- 
tent from  the  political  leadership  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  commu- 
nity. Whereas  the  Evkaf  operated  Muslim  schools  in  the  past,  in 
recent  decades  it  has  simply  provided  funds  for  the  salary  of  the 
mufti,  the  highest  religious  figure,  and  for  the  construction,  repair, 
and  maintenance  of  the  mosques.  The  Evkak's  revenues  were  der- 
ived from  its  large  landholdings  and  other  property  placed  in  trust 
for  religious  purposes.  Before  1974  it  was  the  second  largest  land- 
owner in  Cyprus,  surpassed  only  by  the  Church  of  Cyprus.  Be- 
cause much  of  its  property  was  located  in  territory  occupied  by  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  however,  the  de  facto  partition  of  the  island 
cost  the  Evkaf  half  of  its  agricultural  property  and  nearly  all  of  its 
building  sites. 

The  mufti  was  the  spiritual  head  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Islamic 
community.  His  office  underwent  dramatic  changes  after  the  Ottoman 


97 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


period,  when  religion  and  administration  were  fused  under  the  sul- 
tan as  God's  representative  ruling  over  the  Islamic  community. 
The  mufti's  role  was  essentially  that  of  supreme  authority  in  reli- 
gious law  rather  than  high  priest  or  administrator.  He  was  appointed 
by  the  sultan  until  Atatiirk  abolished  the  caliphate.  The  British 
abolished  the  position  in  1928  and  transferred  its  duties  to  a  new 
official  in  the  Evkaf.  The  office  was  revived  in  1956  as  part  of  the 
reforms  that  gave  Turkish  Cypriots  control  over  the  Evkaf;  the  new 
mufti  was  elected  by  the  island's  Muslims  and  his  retirement  age 
set  at  seventy-five.  Because  of  the  secularization  of  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  society,  however,  the  mufti  lost  his  jurisdiction  over  such 
matters  as  law,  marriage,  and  education. 

Turkish  Cypriots  were  among  the  most  secular  of  Islamic  peo- 
ples. Wedding  ceremonies  were  civil,  rather  than  religious,  for  ex- 
ample. The  eight  decades  of  British  rule  contributed  to  this 
secularization.  More  significant  was  the  Turkish  Cypriots'  close 
adherence  to  Atatiirk' s  reforms  in  Turkey.  Religion  came  to  be 
a  personal  matter  among  Turkish  Cypriots,  and  they  did  not  at- 
tempt to  impose  their  religious  beliefs  on  others.  Although  there 
was  some  fasting  during  the  month  of  Ramadan,  moderate  atten- 
dance at  the  Friday  prayers,  and  widespread  observation  of  the 
holy  days,  few  Turkish  Cypriots  were  orthodox  Muslims.  Most 
of  those  who  fasted  during  Ramadan,  for  example,  lived  an  unor- 
thodox life  the  rest  of  the  year,  and  Turkish  Cypriots  generally  did 
not  abstain  from  alcohol  as  standard  Muslim  teaching  requires, 
but  followed  traditional  Mediterranean  drinking  customs. 

There  were  groups  and  organizations  in  the  "TRNC"  that  op- 
posed traditional  Turkish  Cypriot  secularism  and  religious  toler- 
ance. Some  Saudi  Arabian  and  Libyan  aid  came  from  groups  that 
wished  to  see  an  upsurge  of  Islamism  (sometimes  seen  as  fundamen- 
talism) on  the  island.  Some  of  the  aid  funded  new  mosques  and 
Quran  schools  around  the  island  and  the  new  Islamic  university 
in  Lefka  (Lefke). 

The  Cyprus  Turkish  Islam  Society  (CTIS)  was  one  of  the  or- 
ganizations working  for  an  expanded  role  for  Islam  in  the 
"TRNC."  The  group's  program,  the  Turkish-Islamic  Synthesis 
(Turk-Islam  Sentezi),  called  for  the  union  of  Turkish  nationalism 
and  Islam,  a  coalition  between  government  and  military,  and  a 
society  built  on  Islamic  foundations  and  the  rule  of  religious  law, 
sharia  (seriat  in  Turkish).  The  Turkish-Islamic  Synthesis  also  identi- 
fied enemies  to  be  controlled  or  eliminated,  including  atheists,  com- 
munists, Western  humanists,  members  of  other  religions,  and  those 
who  blame  Islam  for  the  collapse  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  It  main- 
tained close  ties  to  Sheyh  Nazim  Adil  Kibnsh,  a  Cypriot  living 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


in  London,  who  was  a  leading  member  of  the  Nak§ibendi  order 
of  Sunni  Islam  in  Europe.  The  Nak§ibendi  order  also  advocated 
a  return  to  sharia  and  openly  opposed  Ataturk's  reforms. 

Given  the  secular  traditions  of  Turkish  Cypriots,  these  and  other 
like-minded  groups  have  an  uphill  task  to  realize  their  aims. 
Nevertheless,  some  Turkish  Cypriots  would  certainly  find  these 
aims  attractive.  This  fact  and  the  access  of  Islamic  groups  to  the 
financial  resources  of  oil-producing  nations  made  it  likely  that  their 
presence  would  continue  to  be  felt  in  the  "TRNC." 

Education 

Although  the  "TRNC"  was  by  most  standards  still  a  so-called 
"developing  society"  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  with  a  per  capita 
income  and  other  social  indicators  similar  to  those  of  Greece,  Tur- 
key, and  Chile,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  educational  level  was  that  of 
more  advanced  countries.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  literacy  rate  stood 
at  97  percent,  and  there  was  a  high  number  of  university  students. 
These  educational  attainments  stemmed  in  part  from  relatively  en- 
lightened British  rule  in  the  colonial  period  and  the  close  adher- 
ence of  Turkish  Cypriots  to  Ataturk's  educational  reforms.  These 
reforms  entailed  the  adoption  of  the  Latin  alphabet  and  an  em- 
phasis on  secular  values.  Also  contributing  to  the  educational  suc- 
cesses were  the  easily  manageable  size  of  Turkish  Cypriot  society 
and  the  fact  that  a  well-trained  work  force  was  necessary  if  the 
"TRNC"  were  to  prosper. 

Few  Turkish  Cypriots  received  a  university  education  in  the  peri- 
od before  the  island  became  independent  in  1960,  and  those  who 
did  frequently  did  not  return  to  Cyprus  upon  completion  of  their 
studies.  The  fact  that  a  high-school  graduate  in  the  1940s  and  1950s 
immediately  attained  a  respectable  position  in  the  bureaucracy  in- 
dicated the  scarcity  of  university  graduates. 

The  small  number  of  university-educated  Turkish  Cypriots  creat- 
ed a  serious  problem  when  government  agencies  were  staffed  ac- 
cording to  the  70  to  30  Greek  Cypriot  to  Turkish  Cypriot  ratio 
agreed  upon  when  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  was  established  in  1960. 
To  overcome  this  problem,  Turkish  Cypriots  began  a  massive  edu- 
cation training  program  that  involved  sending  their  high-school 
graduates  to  universities  in  Turkey.  To  facilitate  this  process,  the 
Turkish  authorities  provided  special  quotas  for  Turkish  Cypriot 
students.  Thus,  Cypriot  Turks  obtained  easier  access  to  university 
education  in  Turkey  than  did  mainland  Turks.  This  procedure  end- 
ed in  the  late  1970s.  Since  then,  Turkish  Cypriots  have  participat- 
ed in  the  general  university  entrance  examination  set  by  the  Turkish 
Ministry  of  Education. 


99 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Turkish  Cypriots  set  up  their  own  education  system  after  the 
de  facto  partition  of  the  island  in  1974.  By  the  beginning  of  the 
1990s,  they  had  schools  and  universities  that  taught  their  youth 
from  age  four  up  to  the  graduate  level.  A  preprimary  school  sys- 
tem was  not  yet  run  by  the  state,  but  private  kindergartens  were 
in  operation  in  many  areas.  The  public  school  system,  under  the 
direction  of  the  Ministry  of  Education,  Sports,  and  Youth,  began 
with  primary  school,  which  was  free  and  compulsory  for  all  chil- 
dren between  the  ages  of  six  and  fifteen.  Primary  school  was  divided 
into  two  stages:  the  first  for  children  aged  six  to  twelve,  and  the 
second  for  children  between  thirteen  and  fifteen.  Three  years  of 
secondary  education  for  youth  sixteen  to  eighteen  took  place  at  ly- 
cees  (high  schools)  offering  general  academic  courses  and  at  tech- 
nical and  vocational  schools  providing  specialized  training. 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  education  system  expanded  rapidly,  with 
regard  to  both  numbers  and  types  of  schools  and  students  (see  ta- 
ble 9,  Appendix).  The  number  of  preprimary  and  elementary 
schools  increased  significantly.  In  these  institutions,  the  student- 
teacher  ratio  also  improved,  from  thirty  in  1976-77  to  twenty-seven 
in  preprimary  and  twenty-three  in  elementary  schools  in  1988-89. 
At  the  junior  high-school  level,  the  student/teacher  ratio  improved 
from  twenty  in  1976-77  to  twenty-two  in  1988-89.  The  figures  in 
1986-87  for  the  lycees  and  colleges  were  20  and  15.6,  respective- 
ly. In  the  vocational  and  technical  schools,  the  1988-89  figures  in- 
dicated a  student/teacher  ratio  of  eight  to  one,  a  tremendous 
advantage  for  individual  student  training.  In  terms  of  literacy,  state 
statistics  show  important  improvements.  The  rate  of  those  attend- 
ing school  in  1987  was  seven  to  twelve  years  of  age,  98  percent; 
thirteen  to  fifteen,  66  percent;  and  fifteen  to  eighteen,  50  percent. 

Turkish  Cypriot  teachers  often  studied  abroad,  but  they  could 
also  receive  their  training  from  a  domestic  teacher  training  college. 
The  Higher  Technical  Institute  and  the  Eastern  Mediterranean 
University  (EMU)  at  Famagusta  provided  education  at  the  univer- 
sity level,  as  did  the  private  University  College  of  North  Cyprus 
and  the  religious  institution  Lefke  University.  EMU,  the  largest 
of  these  schools,  offered  courses  in  engineering,  business,  and  eco- 
nomics. The  medium  of  teaching  at  this  university  was  English, 
a  considerable  attraction,  and  most  of  its  students  were  foreign- 
ers, mainly  Turks.  Enrollment  grew  rapidly.  During  the  1984-85 
academic  year,  EMU  had  458  students.  Enrollment  nearly  tripled 
the  following  year,  and  in  the  1990-91  academic  year  amounted 
to  3,585.  Two-thirds  of  the  students  were  Turkish,  715  were  Turk- 
ish Cypriots,  and  most  of  the  remainder  came  from  other  Middle 
Eastern  countries.  In  addition  to  those  enrolled  at  the  EMU, 


100 


Dr.  Burhan  Nalbantoglu  General  Hospital  in  Nicosia 
Courtesy  Office  of  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,  "  Washington 

1,875  Turkish  Cypriots  attended  foreign  universities  in  1988,  1,580 
of  them  in  Turkey.  The  United  States  and  Britain  each  had  more 
than  100  Turkish  Cypriot  university  students. 

The  growing  emphasis  on  university  education  among  Turkish 
Cypriots  was  not  without  its  drawbacks.  Because  the  available  jobs 
for  university  graduates  were  limited  in  such  a  small  state,  many 
graduates  chose  to  remain  outside  Cyprus.  This  fact  was  especial- 
ly true  of  those  with  advanced  degrees.  The  resulting  brain  drain 
might  be  reduced  by  the  continued  expansion  of  faculty  and  staff 
at  EMU. 

Lefke  University  was  founded  in  1990  by  the  Cyprus  Science 
Wakf  (a  religious  foundation)  with  US$2  million  in  funds  from  the 
Islamic  Development  Bank.  The  university  had  as  its  goal  the  com- 
bining of  Islamic  principles  with  advanced  education  for  the  benefit 
of  students  of  the  Middle  East.  It  was  thus  a  departure  from  the 
Turkish  Cypriot  tradition  of  secular  education.  At  its  founding, 
however,  the  new  university  had  strong  links  not  with  Turkish 
Cypriots,  but  rather  with  Saudi  Arabian  groups  and  Turkish  Is- 
lamists who  wished  to  establish  a  university  according  to  their  ideals 
in  Turkey.  Strong  opposition  from  Turkey's  academic  institutions 
forced  them  to  settle  on  Lefka  as  a  suitable  site.  The  new  universi- 
ty's closeness  to  Turkey  and  the  fact  that  Turkish  and  Turkish 


101 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Cypriot  citizens  enjoyed  preferential  treatment  in  each  other's  state 
meant  that  Turkish  students  of  an  Islamist  bent  would  be  able  to 
study  there.  Some  observers  feared  that  Lefke  University  would 
have  a  negative  effect  on  the  Turkish  Cypriot  tradition  of  secularism. 
Others  welcomed  the  establishment  of  a  center  of  sharia  in  the 
"TRNC." 

Health  and  Welfare 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  health  care  system  con- 
sisted of  two  general  hospitals,  two  district  hospitals,  one  psychiatric 
hospital — all  of  which  were  operated  by  the  state — and  four  pri- 
vate specialized  hospitals.  There  were  also  ten  public  health  centers 
that  treated  less  serious  medical  problems.  Between  1963  and  1989, 
the  number  of  doctors  serving  in  the  public  sector  increased  from 
76  to  116.  This  increase  was  seen  in  the  numbers  of  both  general 
practitioners  and  specialists.  During  the  same  period,  the  number 
of  nurses  increased  from  225  to  315,  and  the  number  of  public  hospi- 
tal beds  rose  from  497  to  833.  The  number  of  hospital  beds  in  pri- 
vate hospitals  was  193  in  1989.  With  these  improvements,  the  ratio 
of  persons  per  physician  declined  from  1 ,908  in  1963  to  685  in  1989. 
The  number  of  dentists  also  increased.  In  1989  there  were  eigh- 
teen dentists  in  state  hospitals  and  eighty-two  in  private  practice. 

Health  care  services  were  administered  by  two  directorates  un- 
der the  Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Welfare,  the  Directorate  of 
Medicine  and  Health  and  the  State  Laboratories  Directorate,  and 
by  the  Social  Assistance  Services  Office. 

Health  care  was  socialized  in  the  "TRNC,"  although  there  re- 
mained a  substantial  private  component.  The  main  objective  of 
the  Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Welfare  was  to  guarantee  basic 
health  care  services  for  all  citizens.  In  addition,  the  ministry  as- 
sumed the  responsibility  of  facilitating  the  satisfactory  social  use 
of  these  services.  Such  socialized  health  care  required  much 
capital — in  short  supply  in  the  "TRNC."  As  a  result  of  financial 
problems,  the  state  faced  great  difficulties  in  providing  major  health 
care  services  quickly.  In  addition,  the  state  sought  to  send  patients 
to  medical  centers  abroad,  mostly  to  Turkey  and  Britain,  when 
medical  care  for  major  health  problems  was  not  available  domes- 
tically. All  expenses  including  transportation  were  paid  by  the 
government. 

The  regional  welfare  offices  in  larger  population  centers  operat- 
ed under  the  Directorate  of  Social  Welfare.  The  main  duties  of 
the  directorate  were  child  and  family  welfare,  rehabilitation  of 
juvenile  delinquents,  care  of  senior  citizens,  general  community 
services,  and  provision  of  services  for  the  families  of  the  victims 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  intercommunal  strife  and  the  disabled.  The  three  main  towns 
contained  housing  centers  for  rural  and/or  poor  children  attend- 
ing schools  there. 

The  government  also  provided  generous  welfare  and  retirement 
benefits.  The  foundations  for  this  system  were  laid  by  the  British 
colonial  administration.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  Turkish 
Cypriot  social  welfare  policies  compared  favorably  with  those  of 
advanced  West  European  countries. 

The  Social  Insurance  Fund  covered  75,000  citizens  in  1989.  In 
addition  to  paying  for  health  care  costs,  the  fund  provided  retire- 
ment benefits  and  financial  aid  to  the  needy,  and  assisted  those 
disabled  and  survivors  of  those  killed  during  intercommunal  con- 
flict. In  October  1989,  about  9,000  persons  received  monthly  pay- 
ments from  the  fund. 

*    *  * 

Statistical  reports  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  are  the  most  cur- 
rent source  of  information  about  Greek  Cypriot  society.  Publica- 
tions of  the  Social  Research  Center  in  Nicosia  also  cover  a  range 
of  social  topics.  The  Cyprus  Review,  also  published  in  Nicosia,  fre- 
quently contains  articles  dealing  with  recent  social  developments 
in  Cyprus.  There  are  a  number  of  excellent  books  about  Greek 
Cypriot  society,  but  they  treat  only  developments  of  the  1960s  and 
1970s.  The  Greek  Gift  and  The  Heart  Grown  Bitter,  both  by  Peter  Loi- 
zos,  contain  detailed  treatments  of  the  lives  of  the  inhabitants  of 
a  village  before  and  after  the  events  of  1974.  Kyriacos  C.  Mar- 
kides  and  others  deal  with  a  larger  village  in  Lysi:  Social  Change  in 
a  Cypriot  Village,  and  Michael  A.  Attalides  examines  the  capital  in 
Social  Change  and  Urbanization  in  Cyprus. 

Readers  wishing  to  learn  more  of  Turkish  Cypriot  society  will 
find  their  choice  of  sources  restricted  to  a  few  books  and  publica- 
tions. The  North  Cyprus  Almanack  published  in  London  by  K.  Riistem 
and  Brother  covers  many  social  topics.  Vamik  Volkan  has  written 
numerous  articles  and  books  that  treat,  sometimes  only  in  pass- 
ing, the  psychology  and  way  of  life  of  Turkish  Cypriots.  The  Cyprus 
Review  is  also  informative  about  Turkish  Cypriot  society.  The  jour- 
nal attempts  to  bridge  the  gap  between  the  island's  two  communi- 
ties and  contains  scholarly  articles  that  deal  with  a  great  variety 
of  subjects.  Statistics  published  by  the  "TRNC"  State  Planning 
Organisation  can  help  a  researcher  learn  much  about  the  struc- 
ture of  Turkish  Cypriot  society.  Finally,  Lawrence  Durrel's  Bitter 
Lemons,  written  in  the  1950s,  provides  glimpses  of  Cypriots  of  both 
communities  before  independence.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


103 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Ruins  of  ancient  aqueduct  at  Salamis  near 
the  contemporary  village  of  Ayios  Seryios 


CYPRIOTS  HAVE  EXPERIENCED  A  SUBSTANTIAL  im- 
provement in  their  living  standards  since  World  War  II.  Cyprus 
benefited  from  the  war,  and  in  succeeding  decades  its  economy  grew 
at  rates  that  matched  those  of  other  countries  that  profited  from 
the  general  West  European  boom  that  began  in  the  1950s  and  lasted 
up  to  the  first  oil  price  increase  of  1973.  Cypriot  per  capita  income 
increased  steadily  through  this  period;  the  economy  diversified  and 
ceased  to  be  that  of  a  Third  World  colony.  This  success  was  achieved 
despite  widespread  turmoil  stemming  from  shaking  off  British  rule 
in  the  1950s  and  intercommunal  warfare  during  the  1960s. 

Cyprus  was  affected  in  1973  and  1979  by  the  first  and  second 
oil  price  increases,  for  it  was  almost  completely  lacking  in  domes- 
tic sources  of  energy.  However,  energy-related  economic  disrup- 
tion was  negligible  compared  with  the  effects  of  the  Turkish  invasion 
of  1974,  which  ended  in  the  de  facto  partition  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus.  The  island's  economy  disintegrated  as  a  third  of  its  in- 
habitants fled  their  homes  and  livelihoods  and  many  farming, 
manufacturing,  and  commercial  relationships  were  shattered. 
Thereafter,  the  island's  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  com- 
munities lived  separated  from  one  another.  Each  sought  to  re- 
create a  functioning  economy. 

Greeks  Cypriots  were  the  more  successful.  Republic  of  Cyprus 
planners  adopted  an  aggressive  program  of  constructive  deficit 
spending,  economic  incentives,  and  targeted  investments  that  led 
the  Greek  Cypriot  economy  to  reach  pre- 1974  levels  within  a  few 
years.  This  was  an  astonishing  accomplishment  in  that  the  island's 
partition  had  cost  the  republic  much  of  its  agricultural  and  manufac- 
turing assets. 

The  1980s  saw  healthy  growth  and  low  unemployment.  Tourism 
swelled,  and  by  1990  more  than  a  million  tourists,  mostly  from 
Western  Europe,  visited  the  republic  each  year.  Housing  them 
caused  much  construction  and  an  explosion  in  the  value  of  property 
along  the  coast.  Manufacturing  and  trade  were  encouraged  and 
grew.  The  destruction  of  Beirut  permitted  the  republic  to  become 
a  regional  center  for  services  and  finance.  As  the  1990s  began,  Greek 
Cypriots  were  upgrading  their  tourist  trade  and  aiming  at  a  more 
diversified  and  sophisticated  manufacturing  sector.  Leaders  of  the 
republic's  economy  hoped  to  take  advantage  of  the  republic's  able 
and  motivated  work  force  and  a  strong  and  flexible  commercial 
tradition. 


107 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  economy  also  grew.  Facing  many  obsta- 
cles and  beginning  at  a  lower  point,  however,  its  successes  were 
smaller,  and  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  Turkish  Cypriots  en- 
joyed a  per  capita  income  about  one-third  that  of  Greek  Cypriots. 
Economic  obstacles  included  the  lack  of  a  commercial  tradition, 
a  less  well-trained  work  force,  and  rampant  inflation  largely  im- 
ported from  Turkey.  However,  perhaps  the  most  serious  econom- 
ic hurdle  Turkish  Cypriots  had  to  surmount  was  their  state's  lack 
of  international  recognition.  Its  absence  deprived  them  of  some 
international  aid  and  made  foreign  connections  difficult.  Despite 
these  difficulties,  however,  Turkish  Cypriots  could  look  with  some 
optimism  toward  the  future.  Tourism  expanded  rapidly  in  the  late 
1980s  and  brought  in  vital  foreign  exchange.  The  overall  economy 
had  diversified  to  some  extent.  Agriculture  was  more  efficient  and 
employed  a  smaller  share  of  the  work  force.  The  service  sector  had 
increased  in  importance.  Analysts  expected,  however,  that  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  economy  would  likely  continue  to  need  Turkish  as- 
sistance for  the  foreseeable  future. 

Republic  of  Cyprus 

From  independence  in  1 960  until  the  Turkish  occupation  of  the 
north  in  1974,  the  economy  of  Cyprus  performed  well  overall,  and 
the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  increased  at  an 
average  annual  rate  of  about  7  percent  in  real  terms.  However, 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  did  not  share  in  this  growth,  liv- 
ing in  its  scattered  agricultural  enclaves  under  conditions  like  those 
of  less  developed  countries  (see  The  Republic  of  Cyprus,  ch.  1). 

The  Turkish  invasion  and  occupation  of  the  northern  37  per- 
cent of  the  island  severely  disrupted  the  economy  of  the  Republic 
of  Cyprus.  Fragmentation  of  the  market,  a  massive  displacement 
of  people  (about  a  third  of  the  island's  population),  and  loss  of  im- 
portant natural  resources  had  devastating  effects.  The  government 
responded  with  the  first  and  second  emergency  economic  action 
plans,  for  1975-76  and  1977-78.  The  pre-1974  policy  of  balanced 
budgets  was  replaced  by  expansionary  fiscal  and  monetary  poli- 
cies aimed  at  stimulating  economic  activity.  Incentive  plans  to  en- 
courage private  economic  activity  were  implemented,  as  were 
housing  and  employment  programs  for  refugees  who  had  fled  areas 
seized  by  the  Turks. 

These  efforts  proved  phenomenally  successful.  The  economy  ex- 
panded at  a  6  percent  rate  in  real  terms  between  1974  and  1978, 
and  by  1978  unemployment  stood  at  about  2  percent,  compared 
with  30  percent  at  the  end  of  1974.  This  growth  continued  through 
the  1980s.  In  1988  the  per  capita  gross  national  product  (GNP — see 


108 


The  Economy 


Glossary)  in  current  prices  was  about  US$7,200  or  C£3,597  (for 
value  of  the  Cyprus  pound — see  Glossary),  compared  with  C£537.9 
in  1973. 

The  economy  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  changed  as  it  grew  in 
size  and  complexity.  The  primary  sector  lost  ground,  as  it  had  in 
the  decades  before  the  Turkish  invasion.  Agriculture  declined  from 
more  than  20  percent  of  GDP  at  the  end  of  the  1960s  to  only  about 
7  percent  by  the  end  of  the  1980s,  although  it  employed  about  15 
percent  of  the  labor  force.  Mining,  vital  in  the  1950s  as  a  source 
of  exports,  became  insignificant. 

Manufacturing  increased  at  double-digit  rates  during  much  of 
the  1980s.  At  the  end  of  the  decade,  it  accounted  for  15.2  percent 
of  GDP,  the  second  largest  share,  after  the  service  sector's,  and 
was  the  second  largest  source  of  employment.  Manufacturing  de- 
pended on  exports,  most  to  the  Middle  East  and  the  European  Eco- 
nomic Community  (EEC — see  Glossary).  However,  rising  labor 
costs  and  relatively  low-quality  products  stood  in  the  way  of  fu- 
ture industrial  growth.  Construction  provided  just  under  10  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  1989  and  was  the  fourth  largest  private  employer. 
Construction  had  declined  in  importance  since  the  second  half  of 
the  1970s,  when  much  housing  for  refugees  was  built  and  work 
began  on  constructing  the  tourist  facilities  that  were  important  to 
the  south 's  economy. 

The  service,  or  tertiary,  sector  was  the  dominant  sector  in  the 
Greek  Cypriot  economy  after  the  late  1970s.  In  1988  it  accounted 
for  50.2  percent  of  GDP.  The  sector's  most  dynamic  component 
was  trade,  restaurants,  and  hotels  (or  tourism),  which  supplied  20.8 
percent  of  the  GDP  and  employed  22.3  percent  of  the  labor  force 
in  1988.  The  gigantic  increase  in  the  number  of  tourists — from 
165,000  in  1976  to  1,376,000  in  1989— was  the  main  cause  of  this 
subsector's  growth.  Tourism  was  also  an  important  source  of  for- 
eign exchange,  exceeding  the  income  from  the  export  of  domestic 
goods  from  1985  through  1988. 

The  other  branches  of  the  service  sector — transportation,  storage, 
telecommunications,  finance,  insurance,  real  estate,  and  business 
services — also  experienced  steady  growth  and  improvement. 
Another  dynamic  component  of  the  sector,  important  to  Cyprus' s 
future  economic  growth,  was  offshore  enterprises,  which  conduct- 
ed diverse  businesses  abroad  from  a  base  in  southern  Cyprus.  At- 
tracted by  generous  tax  concessions,  the  island's  strategic  location 
between  Europe  and  the  Middle  East,  and  stable  political  condi- 
tions, many  foreign  businesses  established  themselves  in  the  repub- 
lic. By  1990  more  than  5,000  permits  for  offshore  enterprises  had 
been  issued. 


109 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

The  government  played  an  active  and  successful  role  in  plan- 
ning after  1974.  This  planning  was  indicative  in  nature.  That  is, 
the  government  set  goals  for  the  economy  and  limited  its  direct 
participation  to  improving  the  nation's  infrastructure  and  support- 
ing and  guiding  the  private  sector.  These  activities  were  costly, 
however,  and  resulted  in  large  and  expanding  budget  deficits.  By 
the  end  of  1987,  the  total  deficit  of  the  1975-87  period  amounted 
to  C£640.6  million. 

Another  problem  was  a  consistently  unfavorable  trade  balance. 
In  most  years,  however,  expanding  surpluses  in  the  invisibles  ac- 
count, mainly  from  tourist  receipts,  nearly  offset  the  trade  deficits. 
At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  it  was  not  yet  clear  what  effect  the 
1988  Customs  Union  Agreement  with  the  EEC  would  have  on  this 
deficit.  Many  Cypriots  saw  the  agreement  as  an  opportunity.  Ac- 
cess to  the  community's  market  of  320  million  people  might  prove 
beneficial,  provided  that  the  manufacturing  sector,  consisting  of 
small,  labor-intensive  firms,  was  restructured  and  modernized.  Un- 
doubtedly, the  economy  would  face  more  intense  competition  in 
the  1990s,  but  its  main  asset,  a  versatile  and  educated  human  cap- 
ital, could  make  the  difference  again  as  it  had  often  done  in  the  past. 

Development  of  the  Economy  since  Independence 

Cyprus  faced  a  number  of  structural  problems  when  it  gained 
independence  in  1960.  Agriculture,  the  dominant  sector,  was  subject 
to  fluctuating  weather  conditions  and  characterized  by  low  produc- 
tivity. The  island's  small  manufacturing  sector  centered  on  small 
family  firms  specializing  in  handicrafts.  Tourism  was  limited  to 
a  few  hill  resorts.  The  main  exports  were  minerals.  The  country's 
infrastructure  was  that  of  a  Third  World  country. 

These  problems  and  the  prevailing  view  that  the  market  system 
alone  would  not  be  able  to  provide  the  basis  for  major  structural 
changes  and  for  intensive  infrastructure  building  led  to  the  con- 
clusion that  economic  planning  was  necessary.  The  government 
adopted  a  system  of  indicative  planning,  setting  goals  for  the  econ- 
omy and  seeking  to  encourage  and  support  the  private  sector's  ef- 
forts to  reach  those  goals  through  legislation  and  monetary  and  fiscal 
policies.  In  addition,  the  state  spent  substantial  resources  to  im- 
prove the  country's  physical  and  institutional  infrastructure.  Plan- 
ners believed  such  measures  would  be  sufficient  for  the  island's 
dynamic  private  sector  to  function  well  and  reach  by  itself  the  select- 
ed goals,  with  minimal  government  participation  in  the  day-to-day 
operations  of  the  economy.  Indicative  planning  was  managed  by 
the  Planning  Bureau  under  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  The  bureau, 
aided  by  expert  advice  from  abroad,  formulated  three  five-year 


110 


The  Economy 


development  plans  before  the  Turkish  invasion  in  1974,  four  emer- 
gency economic  action  plans  after  1974,  and  a  revised  five-year 
plan  for  1989  to  1993. 

The  first  five-year  plan,  for  1962  to  1966,  aimed  at  achieving 
higher  incomes,  full  employment,  price  stability,  an  improved 
balance  of  payments,  and  greater  economic  equality  between  rural 
and  urban  areas.  The  plan  provided  for  a  sizeable  public  invest- 
ment expenditure,  C£62  million,  on  development  projects  for  roads, 
ports,  airport  facilities,  irrigation  projects,  and  telecommunications 
and  electricity  systems.  The  Agricultural  Research  Institute  was 
established  in  1962  to  improve  the  quality  of  agriculture,  and  the 
Central  Bank  of  Cyprus  was  created  in  1963  to  ensure  that  an  ap- 
propriate volume  of  credit  was  available  to  the  private  sector.  This 
first  plan  achieved  remarkable  success,  most  obviously  in  agricul- 
tural production. 

The  second  five-year  plan,  for  1967  to  1971 ,  moved  beyond  the 
fundamental  approach  of  the  first  plan,  seeking  to  provide  the  so- 
cial and  legal  structures  needed  by  a  more  advanced  economy.  It 
also  gave  the  business  community  a  more  active  role  in  planning. 
The  third  five-year  plan,  for  1972  to  1976,  stressed  regional  plan- 
ning, to  promote  more  even  economic  growth  throughout  the  is- 
land. This  plan  also  concerned  itself  with  the  social  and  cultural 
aspects  of  development.  The  Cyprus  Development  Bank  was  es- 
tablished to  provide  medium-  and  long-term  loans  for  development 
projects,  as  well  as  technical  and  administrative  assistance.  The 
Higher  Technical  Institute  and  the  Hotel  and  Catering  Institute 
were  established  to  provide  specialized  training. 

The  success  of  these  plans  was  shown  by  the  great  gains  the  Cypri- 
ot  economy  made  in  the  first  fourteen  years  of  independence. 
Although  agriculture  had  become  much  more  productive,  the  second- 
ary and  tertiary  sectors  had  shown  even  greater  productivity  as 
Cyprus  became  a  more  developed  nation.  The  primary  sector's 
share  of  GDP  declined  from  26.3  percent  in  1960  to  17  percent 
in  1973,  while  the  secondary  and  tertiary  sectors'  shares  expand- 
ed, respectively,  from  19.5  to  25  percent  and  from  54.2  to  58  per- 
cent. In  addition,  the  productivity  of  these  two  latter  sectors  was 
considerably  higher  than  that  of  the  primary  sector. 

The  economy  was  devastated  by  the  1974  Turkish  invasion  and 
the  subsequent  occupation  of  the  northern  37  percent  of  the  island. 
Serious  problems  included  a  large  number  of  refugees  (about  a  third 
of  the  populations  of  both  communities),  fragmentation  of  the  is- 
land's market,  and  the  loss  by  the  government-controlled  area  of 
land  containing  raw  materials,  agricultural  resources,  and  impor- 
tant infrastructure  facilities  such  as  the  Nicosia  International  Airport 


111 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

and  Famagusta,  the  island's  largest  port.  The  need  for  reconstruc- 
tion and  development  was  critical.  To  meet  this  challenge,  a  se- 
ries of  emergency  economic  action  plans  for  two-year  periods  was 
instituted. 

The  first  and  second  emergency  economic  action  plans,  cover- 
ing the  period  from  1975  to  1978,  aimed  mainly  at  aiding  the  refu- 
gees, then  living  in  camps,  by  establishing  a  housing  program  for 
them.  The  plans  also  directed  the  government  to  stimulate  the  econ- 
omy by  adopting  expansionary  fiscal  and  monetary  policies.  The 
results  were  positive.  The  economy  expanded  by  about  6  percent 
per  year,  and  the  unemployment  rate  declined  to  about  2  percent 
in  1978.  Increased  domestic  consumption  and  rising  oil  prices, 
however,  produced  some  overheating  of  the  economy;  the  infla- 
tion rate  reached  7.4  percent  in  1978.  Despite  this  problem,  the 
achievement  of  housing  the  refugees  and  getting  the  economy  go- 
ing again  with  fewer  resources  in  such  a  brief  period  of  time  was 
considered  almost  miraculous. 

The  third  Emergency  Economic  Action  Plan,  covering  1979  to 
1981  (the  last  of  the  two-year  plans),  aimed  at  countering  the  over- 
heating of  the  economy  by  adopting  a  restrictive  monetary  policy. 
The  main  goal  of  the  fourth  Emergency  Economic  Action  Plan, 
covering  1982  to  1986,  was  to  balance  economic  expansion  with 
monetary  stability.  These  goals  were  reached.  Retail  price  infla- 
tion fell  from  13.5  percent  in  1980  and  10.8  percent  in  1981  to 
5  or  6  percent  in  the  next  few  years  and  1.2  percent  in  1986.  High 
growth  rates  with  low  unemployment  continued. 

Overall,  the  economy  of  Cyprus  performed  relatively  well  in  the 
three  areas  of  economic  growth,  full  employment,  and  monetary 
stability  between  1976  and  the  late  1980s.  Between  1976  and  1986, 
GDP  grew  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  8.4  percent  in  real  terms. 
Per  capita  GNP  in  current  prices  increased  from  C £5 37. 9  in  1973 
to  C£3,597  in  1988,  or  US$7,200,  one  of  the  highest  in  the  Mediter- 
ranean area.  Unemployment  averaged  3.2  percent  per  year,  and 
price  increases  6.3  percent  per  year,  during  the  1976-88  period. 
The  price  increases  of  1980  and  1981  pushed  the  average  up,  and 
the  increases  of  the  late  1980s  were  substantially  lower  (2.8  per- 
cent in  1987  and  3.8  percent  in  1989).  Government  support  of  the 
private  sector,  through  tax  incentives,  loan  guarantees  for  export- 
oriented  industries,  grants  and  loans  to  agriculture  and  small  in- 
dustries, training  programs  for  the  manufacturing  sector,  and  the 
substantial  improvement  of  the  infrastructure,  contributed  great- 
ly to  this  success. 

Analysts  believed  that  the  1990s  would  challenge  the  economy. 
The  Customs  Union  Agreement  with  the  EEC  could  be  disastrous 


112 


The  Economy 


if  manufacturing  were  not  fundamentally  restructured.  The  high 
tariffs  that  had  protected  manufacturing  for  decades  would  be  dis- 
manded  in  the  1990s  under  the  terms  of  the  agreement.  The  repub- 
lic's seemingly  permanent  trade  deficit  would  have  to  be  substantially 
reduced  if  it  were  not  to  damage  the  economy  in  the  long  term. 
Agriculture  would  also  be  affected;  some  of  its  branches,  mainly 
cereals  and  livestock,  which  enjoyed  direct  or  indirect  subsidies, 
might  fall  to  foreign  competition.  The  service  sector  would  grow 
in  importance.  Tourism,  which  could  not  expect  further  growth 
in  quantity,  would  have  to  bring  in  more  receipts  by  improving 
the  quality  of  its  product.  Financial  services  and  offshore  enter- 
prises would  likely  increase  in  importance. 

The  Government  Sector 

The  government  accounted  for  about  12  to  13  percent  of  GDP 
during  the  1980s  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  The  need  to  stimulate 
the  economy  after  the  division  of  the  island  in  1974  caused  the 
government  to  abandon  the  old  policy  of  balanced  budgets  and  to 
adopt  expansionary  fiscal  and  monetary  policies.  The  results  were 
large  and  widening  budget  deficits  paid  for  by  borrowing  at  home 
and  abroad.  Domestic  public  debt  rose  from  C£7.5  million  in  1976 
to  C£161.5  million  in  1988.  Public  and  publicly  guaranteed  for- 
eign debt  increased  from  C£61.8  million  in  1976  to  C£602.5  mil- 
lion in  1988.  The  total  public  and  publicly  guaranteed  domestic 
and  foreign  debt  rose  from  C£760.8  million  in  1987  to  C£764  mil- 
lion (38.7  percent  of  GDP)  in  1988.  The  foreign  debt  service  ratio 
(total  service  payments  as  a  percentage  of  exports  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices) was  11.8  in  1987  and  10.8  in  1988.  Domestic  borrowing  only 
was  used  to  cover  the  budget  deficit  in  1988.  Thus,  there  was  a 
decline  in  government  foreign  borrowing  in  1988  to  C£602.5  mil- 
lion, compared  to  C £6 17.5  million  in  1987.  Still,  the  burden  of 
servicing  the  foreign  debt  continued  to  be  significant.  For  instance, 
servicing  the  external  debt  was  more  than  half  the  revenue  from 
exports  of  domestically  produced  goods  in  1987. 

Furthermore,  it  was  anticipated  that  the  tariff  reductions  that 
would  result  from  the  Customs  Union  Agreement  with  the  EEC 
would  produce  revenue  losses,  raising  the  fiscal  deficit  to  C£126 
million  in  1992,  compared  with  C£73.5  million  in  1987.  As  a  con- 
sequence, both  public  and  foreign  debts  were  expected  to  increase. 
The  president  of  Cyprus,  George  Vassiliou,  forecast  a  rise  in  the 
per  capita  public  debt  from  C£2,107  in  1987  to  C£3,563  in  1992 
and  a  rise  in  the  total  foreign  debt  to  C£  1,082  million  in  1992. 

Given  the  government's  ever-present  fiscal  deficit,  there  were 
concrete  proposals  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  for  the  introduction 


113 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

of  a  value-added  tax  (VAT — see  Glossary)  to  improve  the  state's 
finances.  The  Republic  of  Cyprus  lacked  a  broad-based  consump- 
tion tax,  and  a  VAT  would  generate  much  revenue.  The  income 
tax  system  was  also  to  be  overhauled,  to  reduce  tax  evasion. 

A  specific  look  at  government  public  finances  shows  that  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus  maintained  three  types  of  budgets:  the  Ordi- 
nary Budget,  which  included  expenditures  for  government  opera- 
tions and  other  current  expenses;  the  Development  Budget,  which 
included  development  programs;  and  the  Special  Relief  Fund, 
which  covered  state  aid  for  the  housing  and  care  of  refugees. 

The  Ordinary  Budget 

The  major  sources  of  revenue  of  the  Ordinary  Budget  included 
direct  taxes;  indirect  taxes;  loan  proceeds;  sales  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices; interest,  dividends,  rents,  and  royalties;  and  foreign  grants. 
Revenue  in  1987  from  direct  taxes  was  C£107  million,  or  27  per- 
cent of  the  total  revenue  for  the  Ordinary  Budget;  revenue  from 
indirect  taxes  was  C£151 .3  million,  or  38.2  percent;  and  proceeds 
from  loans  were  C£68  million,  or  17.2  percent.  These  three  main 
sources  of  revenue  brought  in  82.4  percent  of  the  total  revenue  of 
the  Ordinary  Budget. 

The  major  expenditures  of  the  Ordinary  Budget  were  salaries, 
fees,  and  allowances;  public  debt  charges;  and  subventions  and  con- 
tributions and  subsidies.  Salaries,  fees,  and  allowances  accounted 
for  33.9  percent  of  total  expenditures  in  1987;  public  debt  charges, 
30.7  percent;  subventions  and  contributions,  9.4  percent;  and  sub- 
sidies, 6.1  percent.  The  Ordinary  Budget  showed  deficits  of  C£17.9 
million  in  1985,  C£12.5  million  in  1986,  C£32.1  million  in  1987, 
and  C£28.7  million  in  1988. 

The  Development  Budget 

There  was  no  revenue  in  the  Development  Budget  during  the 
period  1976-87.  If  there  had  been  public  savings  (i.e.,  excesses  of 
current  revenues  over  current  expenditures)  in  the  Ordinary  Bud- 
get, they  could  have  provided  the  means  to  finance  all  or  a  part 
of  the  investment  and  other  development  expenditures.  However, 
for  most  of  the  years  of  the  1976-87  period,  there  were  no  public 
savings.  Thus,  the  Development  Budget  had  to  rely  on  domestic 
and  foreign  borrowing  to  cover  its  expenditures.  The  major  ex- 
penditure items  of  the  Development  Budget  were  investment,  capital 
transfers,  and  land  acquisition.  Another  sizeable  item  was  expen- 
ditures for  wages  and  salaries.  Investment  expenditures  amount- 
ed to  C£46  million  in  1988.  Investment  expenditures  in  the  period 
1985-88  were  mainly  to  finance  the  Southern  Conveyor  Project, 


114 


The  Economy 


the  Khrysokhou  Irrigation  Project,  the  Nicosia- Limassol  Highway, 
several  other  major  roads,  and  Larnaca  Airport.  For  this  reason, 
construction  activity  absorbed  most  of  the  investment  expenditures 
between  1985  and  1988.  Investment's  share  of  the  total  develop- 
ment expenditures  was  60.22  percent  in  1985,  76.19  percent  in 
1986,  75.1  percent  in  1987,  and  67.74  in  1988. 

The  Special  Relief  Fund 

The  revenues  of  the  Special  Relief  Fund  were  C£2 1 . 5  million 
in  1987.  Expenditures  were  C£21.5  million.  The  fund  showed  a 
surplus  in  the  period  1985-88.  The  main  sources  of  revenue  were 
direct  taxes  (a  special  contribution),  indirect  taxes  (a  temporary 
refugee  levy  on  imports),  and  foreign  grants.  The  main  expendi- 
tures of  the  fund  in  1988  included  investment,  C£10  million;  cur- 
rent transfers,  C£7.6  million;  capital  transfers,  C£4.2  million;  and 
wages  and  salaries,  C£1.4  million. 

Employment  and  Labor  Relations 

The  south' s  successful  economy  kept  unemployment  rates  low. 
During  the  1980s,  unemployment  rose  above  3.3  percent  only  once, 
in  1987,  when  it  reached  3.7  percent.  In  1988  unemployment  was 
2.8  percent.  Unemployment  rates  were  also  low  in  the  years  just 
before  the  Turkish  invasion  of  1974,  averaging  about  1  percent. 
The  invasion  and  division  of  the  island  disrupted  the  economy, 
and  in  the  government- controlled  area  unemployment  averaged 
16.2  percent  in  1975  and  8.5  percent  in  1976.  During  1977  the 
rate  fell  to  3  percent,  a  rate  typical  for  the  south 's  economy  during 
the  1980s. 

The  south' s  economy  frequently  had  to  contend  with  a  shortage 
of  workers  and  in  some  years  was  forced  to  import  workers  from 
abroad  to  meet  the  needs  of  various  sectors,  especially  the  tourist 
industry.  This  shortfall  reflected  the  changing  employment  patterns 
of  the  economy  as  a  whole  (see  table  1 1 ,  Appendix).  The  only  popu- 
lation group  that  consistently  had  difficulty  finding  employment 
was  composed  of  university  graduates.  Their  discontent  sometimes 
resulted  in  demonstrations  and  demands  that  the  civil  service  be 
expanded. 

In  1973  about  37.5  percent  of  those  gainfully  employed  were 
members  of  labor  unions.  Union  membership  increased  greatly  be- 
tween 1974  and  1977,  reaching  62  percent  at  the  end  of  1977.  This 
trend  continued,  and  in  1988  labor  unions  represented  more  than 
80  percent  of  the  work  force. 

The  most  prominent  unions  in  the  government-controlled  area 
were  the  left-wing  Pan-Cyprian  Federation  of  Labor  (Pankypria 


115 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Ergatiki  Omospondia — PEO)  with  about  70,000  members  at  the 
end  of  the  1980s,  and  the  right-wing  Cyprus  Workers'  Confeder- 
ation (Synomospondia  Ergaton  Kyprou — SEK)  with  about  50,000 
members.  Third  in  importance  was  the  civil  servants'  labor 
union,  with  a  membership  of  about  13,000.  Employers  were  or- 
ganized in  various  associations  represented  in  the  Cyprus  Employ- 
ers' and  Industrialists'  Federation. 

Terms  and  conditions  of  employment  were  negotiated  either 
directly  between  employee  and  employer  or  through  collective  bar- 
gaining between  trade  unions  and  employers'  organizations.  The 
government's  policy  was  to  remain  largely  uninvolved  in  these 
negotiations  unless  a  deadlock  had  been  reached  or  its  participa- 
tion had  been  requested,  when  it  acted  through  its  Industrial  Rela- 
tions Section,  a  part  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Insurance. 
This  section  routinely  acted  to  prevent  labor-employer  discord  by 
providing  both  groups  with  guidance  and  information  about  good 
industrial  relations.  As  a  result,  the  number  of  working  days  lost 
to  strikes  was  among  the  lowest  in  the  Western  world  relative  to 
the  size  of  the  work  force. 

In  the  1980s,  wages  rose  faster  than  prices.  A  part  of  the  wage 
increase  was  brought  about  through  wage  indexation,  with  auto- 
matic quarterly  wage  increases  equal  to  about  half  the  inflation  rate. 
Even  at  this  rate,  however,  wage  increases  could  be  troublesome 
for  the  economy.  In  1988,  for  example,  average  wages  and  salar- 
ies increased  4.5  percent  in  real  terms,  but  exceeded  the  produc- 
tivity gain  of  3.5  percent.  The  relative  scarcity  of  labor  and  rising 
labor  costs  affected  the  economy  in  the  1980s  and  were  expected 
to  continue  to  do  in  the  1990s. 

Primary  Sector 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  primary  sector  was  no  longer 
as  important  as  it  had  been.  Agriculture's  contribution  to  GDP 
had  declined  from  about  20  percent  at  the  end  of  the  1960s  to  about 
7  percent  at  the  end  of  the  1980s.  Mining's  importance  had  fallen 
so  much  that  it  was  no  longer  significant.  Forestry  and  fishing  were 
also  of  little  importance.  Nevertheless,  agriculture  would  remain 
a  stable  element  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  for  both  economic  and 
social  reasons.  Vast  irrigation  projects  were  underway  for  agricul- 
ture's benefit;  government  programs  for  a  continuing  reform  of 
land  tenure  patterns  were  in  place;  and  the  cooperative  movement 
was  a  significant  force  in  the  banking  industry. 

Agriculture 

When  Cyprus  achieved  independence  in  1960,  the  backbone  of 


116 


The  Economy 


its  economy  was  agriculture,  mostly  small  farms,  and  sometimes 
even  subsistence  farms.  During  the  1960s,  irrigation  projects  made 
possible  vegetable  and  fruit  exports;  increasingly,  commercialized 
farming  was  able  to  meet  the  demands  for  meat,  dairy  products, 
and  wine  from  the  British  and  United  Nations  troops  stationed  on 
the  island  and  from  the  growing  number  of  tourists. 

In  the  early  1970s,  Cypriot  farms,  still  overwhelmingly  small, 
owner- run  units,  furnished  about  70  percent  of  commodity  exports 
and  employed  about  95,000  people,  or  one- third  of  the  island's  eco- 
nomically active  population.  Given  the  expansion  of  the  manufac- 
turing and  service  sectors,  however,  agriculture's  importance  was 
declining,  and  in  the  first  half  of  the  1970s  its  share  of  GDP  amount- 
ed to  18  percent. 

The  de  facto  division  of  the  island  in  1974  left  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
community  in  the  north  in  possession  of  agricultural  resources  that 
produced  about  four-fifths  of  the  citrus  and  cereal  crops,  two-thirds 
of  the  green  fodder,  and  all  of  the  tobacco  (see  fig.  7).  The  south 
retained  nearly  all  of  the  island's  grape-growing  areas  and  decidu- 
ous fruit  orchards.  The  south  also  possessed  lands  producing  roughly 
three-fourths  of  the  valuable  potato  crop  and  other  vegetables  (ex- 
cluding carrots),  half  the  island's  olive  trees,  and  two- thirds  of  its 
carob  trees.  In  addition,  the  south  retained  two-thirds  of  the 
livestock  population. 

The  Turkish  occupation  caused  a  large-scale  uncoordinated  ex- 
change of  the  agricultural  work  force  between  the  northern  and 
southern  zones.  The  resulting  substantial  agricultural  unemploy- 
ment was  countered  by  government  actions  that  included  finan- 
cial assistance  on  easy  terms  to  farmers.  By  1978  the  number  of 
persons  working  in  agriculture  in  the  government-controlled  area 
amounted  to  about  47,000,  or  23  percent  of  the  working  popula- 
tion. Thereafter,  however,  agriculture's  portion  of  the  work  force 
declined  to  20.7  percent  in  1979  and  15.8  percent  in  1987.  Its  con- 
tribution to  the  economy  also  declined;  from  17.3  percent  of  GDP 
in  1976  to  10.7  percent  in  1979  and  7.7  percent  in  1988.  This  share 
was  important  to  the  south 's  economy,  however,  and  in  1988  value 
added  in  agriculture,  at  constant  1985  prices,  was  C£112.7  million. 

Agriculture's  share  of  the  national  economy  could  be  expected 
to  decline  still  further  in  the  1990s,  as  the  Greek  Cypriot  economy 
became  even  more  dominated  by  the  service  sector.  The  island's 
favorable  climate  and  its  location  near  its  leading  market,  Western 
Europe,  however,  meant  that  farming  would  remain  an  important 
and  stable  part  of  the  overall  economy.  Government  irrigation 
projects,  subsidies,  and  tax  policies  encouraged  farming's  existence, 


117 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


118 


The  Economy 


as  did  research  in  new  crops  and  new  varieties  of  ones  already  in 
cultivation. 

The  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Natural  Resources  oversaw  ef- 
forts to  improve  agriculture,  fishing,  and  forestry.  Subordinate  to 
this  ministry  and  assisting  it  were,  among  others,  the  Agricultural 
Research  Institute,  the  Veterinary  Service,  the  Meteorological  Ser- 
vice, the  Department  of  Water  Development,  the  Department  of 
Forests,  and  the  Department  of  Geological  Survey. 

In  addition  to  macroeconomic  considerations,  the  government 
encouraged  agriculture  because  it  provided  rural  employment, 
which  maintained  village  life  and  relieved  urban  crowding.  Small- 
scale  agricultural  activity  prevented  some  regions  from  losing  much 
of  their  population.  Part-time  agricultural  work  also  permitted  ur- 
ban residents  to  keep  in  contact  with  their  villages  and  gave  them 
supplemental  income. 

Water  Resources 

Cyprus' s  water  supply  was  both  inadequate  and  irregular.  The 
average  rainfall  of  500  millimeters,  mostly  in  the  winter,  left  the 
island  quite  dry  much  of  the  rest  of  the  time  because  no  rivers  flowed 
year  round.  During  the  colonial  period,  a  dam  and  reservoir  con- 
struction program  was  begun,  and  by  independence  Cyprus  had 
sixteen  dams  with  a  storage  capacity  of  6  million  cubic  meters,  or 
1  percent  of  the  island's  estimated  600  million  cubic  meters  of  us- 
able runoff  from  annual  rainfall. 

After  independence  a  number  of  large  projects  were  mounted 
to  increase  reservoir  storage  capacity,  which  reached  300  million 
cubic  meters  by  1990.  The  most  important  of  these  projects,  and 
the  largest  development  project  in  Cyprus  since  independence,  was 
the  Southern  Conveyor  Project,  which  collected  surplus  water  from 
the  southwestern  part  of  the  island  and  conveyed  it  by  a 
1 10-kilometer-long  water  carrier  to  the  central  and  eastern  areas. 
When  the  project  reached  completion  in  1993,  it,  and  a  number 
of  other  large  projects,  would  guarantee  farmers  and  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Nicosia  and  other  towns  adequate  amounts  of  water  into 
the  next  century. 

Land  Use  and  Tenure 

Three  categories  of  landownership  existed  in  Cyprus  during  the 
Ottoman  period:  private,  state,  and  communal.  This  division  con- 
tinued to  characterize  landholding  in  the  Greek  Cypriot  area  in  1990. 
Most  land  was  privately  owned.  The  largest  private  landowner  was 
the  Church  of  Cyprus,  whose  holdings  before  the  Turkish  invasion 
included  an  estimated  5.8  percent  of  the  island's  arable  land. 


119 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Unrestricted  legal  ownership  of  private  land  dated  only  from 
1946,  when  the  British  administration  enacted  a  new  land  law  that 
superseded  the  land  code  in  effect  under  the  Ottomans,  in  which 
all  agricultural  land  belonged  to  the  state.  Those  who  worked  the 
land  were  in  effect  hereditary  tenants,  whose  right  to  the  land  was 
usufructuary.  Land  could  be  transmitted  from  father  to  son,  but 
could  not  be  disposed  of  otherwise  without  official  permission. 

The  Immovable  Property  (Tenure,  Registration,  and  Valuation) 
Law  of  1946  established  the  present-day  legal  basis  for  landhold- 
ing.  All  former  state  lands  that  had  been  properly  acquired  by  in- 
dividuals were  declared  to  be  private  property;  private  property 
as  defined  in  the  former  Ottoman  land  code  also  continued  to  be 
private  property.  Communal  land  remained  the  property  of  vil- 
lages or  towns,  and  all  unoccupied  and  vacant  land  not  lawfully 
held  (most  forest  land,  for  example)  became  state  land. 

Both  Greek  and  Turkish  inheritance  practices  required  the  di- 
vision of  an  estate  among  the  surviving  heirs.  At  the  time  of  the 
1946  law,  fragmentation  of  land  was  already  great,  many  hold- 
ings did  not  have  access  roads,  and  owners  frequently  possessed 
varying  numbers  of  plots  that  might  be  separated  by  distances  of 
several  kilometers. 

Despite  the  1946  law,  however,  fragmentation  of  plots  continued. 
The  1946  census  showed  60,179  holdings  averaging  7.2  hectares. 
By  1960  the  number  of  holdings  had  risen  to  69,445,  an  increase 
of  15.4  percent,  and  the  average  holding  had  decreased  to  6.2  hect- 
ares. By  1974  the  average  holding  was  an  estimated  5  hectares. 
Holdings  were  seldom  a  single  piece  of  land;  most  consisted  of  small 
plots,  an  average  of  ten  per  holding  in  1960.  In  some  villages,  the 
average  number  of  plots  was  40,  and  extremes  of  100  plots  held 
by  a  single  farmer  were  reported. 

The  government  enacted  the  Land  Consolidation  Law  of  1969 
to  resolve  the  problem  of  land  tenure.  The  law  established  the  Cen- 
tral Land  Consolidation  Authority,  with  the  power  to  buy  and  also 
acquire  compulsorily  land  and  other  property,  which  it  could  sell 
or  use  for  land  consolidation.  The  authority's  board  included  mem- 
bers of  several  ministries  and  departments  and  also  representatives 
of  the  farmers.  At  the  village  level,  committees  of  government 
representatives  and  local  farmers  coordinated  and  supervised  the 
local  program. 

Land  consolidation  consisted  of  merging  fragmented  holdings. 
Dual  and  multiple  holdings  were  to  be  eliminated,  and  plots  smaller 
than  the  minimums  listed  in  the  1946  land  law  were  to  be  expropri- 
ated. Government-owned  land  could  be  used  to  enlarge  holdings; 
recipients  could  purchase  the  land  at  current  market  prices,  paying 


120 


Grape  harvest 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


121 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

in  installments  at  low  interest  rates.  A  farmer-owner  who  lost  land 
in  the  redistribution  process  was  to  receive  land  having  the  same 
value  as  his  former  holding.  The  land  consolidation  program  also 
involved  the  construction  of  a  service  road  network  to  connect  all 
plots  to  larger  roads. 

By  the  end  of  1988,  twenty-eight  land  consolidation  projects  had 
been  completed,  and  thirty-one  projects  were  underway.  Where 
projects  had  been  completed,  minute  plots  were  almost  completely 
eliminated,  the  average  size  of  plots  increased  by  100  percent,  and 
the  number  of  plots  declined  by  about  70  percent. 

Agricultural  Cooperatives 

The  agricultural  cooperative  movement  in  Cyprus  was  founded 
in  1909  by  a  village  society  of  farmers  who  had  returned  from  an 
inspection  tour  of  Britain  and  Germany.  The  cooperative  move- 
ment's development  was  slow,  largely  because  few  villagers  were 
qualified  to  manage  cooperatives.  The  Agricultural  Bank,  estab- 
lished in  1925  to  furnish  medium-  and  long-term  loans  to  farm- 
ers, functioned  through  the  cooperative  societies.  In  1937  a  new 
impetus  was  given  to  the  movement  by  the  establishment  of  the 
Cooperative  Central  Bank  (CCB),  with  membership  limited  to  the 
cooperative  societies. 

The  bank's  initial  function  was  to  furnish  the  societies  with  funds 
for  short-term  loans  to  members.  This  function  was  expanded  in 
1960  (when  the  CCB  absorbed  the  Agricultural  Bank)  to  include 
medium-  and  long-term  loans.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  CCB  was 
the  third  largest  bank  in  the  government-controlled  area  in  terms 
of  deposits.  The  cooperative  movement's  banking  activity  was  es- 
pecially strong  in  the  countryside,  but  also  competed  with  conven- 
tional banks  in  urban  areas  and  had  about  a  30  percent  share  of 
the  banking  business  as  a  whole. 

In  addition  to  banking  and  credit  activities,  the  cooperative  move- 
ment maintained  retail  stores.  Cooperatives  also  marketed  agricul- 
tural products  and  exported  large  amounts  of  citrus  fruits,  other 
fruits,  table  grapes,  and  vegetables.  The  largest  winery  on  the  is- 
land was  the  Cooperative  Winery  SODAP  Ltd. 

Crops 

Crop  production  was  by  far  the  most  important  component  of 
agriculture.  In  1988  it  contributed  71  percent  of  total  value  added 
in  agriculture,  compared  with  19  percent  for  livestock.  Ancillary 
production  contributed  6  percent;  the  shares  of  fishing  and  fore- 
stry were  3  and  1  percent,  respectively. 


122 


The  Economy 


A  wide  range  of  crops  were  grown  on  Cyprus.  Cereals  (wheat 
and  barley),  legumes,  vegetables  (carrots,  potatoes,  and  tomatoes), 
and  fruit  and  other  tree  crops  (almonds,  apples,  bananas,  carobs, 
grapes,  grapefruit,  lemons,  melons,  olives,  oranges,  and  peaches) 
(see  table  12,  Appendix). 

Crops  were  rainfed  or  irrigated.  Wheat  and  barley  were  rainfed 
or  dryland  crops,  as  were  carobs,  olives,  fodder,  and  wine  grapes. 
Crops  that  required  irrigation  included  vegetables,  citrus  fruits, 
deciduous  fruits,  bananas,  and  table  grapes.  These  irrigated  crops 
accounted  for  half  of  agricultural  production. 

Cereals,  mainly  wheat  and  barley,  grew  mostly  on  the  Mesaor- 
ia,  the  island's  central  plain.  Production  fluctuated  widely,  depend- 
ing on  rainfall.  Wheat's  importance  relative  to  barley  declined 
steadily  during  the  1980s,  the  result  of  greater  subsidies  paid  for 
the  raising  of  barley.  Despite  the  subsidies  and  a  doubling  of  barley 
production,  only  part  of  the  domestic  need  for  cereals  was  met, 
and  substantial  imports  were  necessary. 

Market  vegetables  grew  in  many  areas  around  the  island.  The 
potato  was  the  most  important  of  these  crops,  far  outstripping  toma- 
toes, carrots,  watermelons  and  sweet  melons,  cucumbers,  and  others 
in  both  weight  and  value.  In  fact,  the  potato  was  the  most  impor- 
tant agricultural  product  in  the  late  1980s,  during  which  more  than 
80  percent  of  its  production  was  exported  (see  table  13,  Appen- 
dix). In  1987  the  potato  earned  10  percent  of  the  total  value  of 
domestic  exports,  more  than  any  other  item  except  clothing.  Be- 
cause the  Cypriot  potato  was  harvested  twice,  in  winter  and  in  early 
spring,  it  had  a  competitive  advantage  in  the  European  market. 
Britain  was  the  largest  consumer.  A  shortage  of  suitable  land  and 
a  need  for  irrigation  meant  that  the  potato's  importance  for  Cypriot 
agriculture  would  likely  decline  in  the  1990s,  but  it  would  remain 
one  of  the  sector's  main  supports. 

Citrus  production  was  another  irrigated  crop  that  was  impor- 
tant for  exports;  about  75  percent  of  production  was  consumed 
abroad.  Groves  of  oranges,  lemons,  grapefruit,  and  tangerines  were 
located  along  the  coasts.  Unlike  potato  production,  that  of  citrus 
fruits  was  expected  to  expand  greatly  in  the  1990s,  and  one  esti- 
mate foresaw  a  yield  of  350,000  tons  by  the  turn  of  the  century, 
compared  with  169,000  tons  in  1989. 

Viniculture  and  the  production  of  wine  have  been  major  eco- 
nomic activities  for  centuries  in  Cyprus.  Most  vineyards  are  lo- 
cated in  the  southwestern  part  of  the  island  on  the  slopes  of  the 
Troodos  Mountains  in  the  Paphos  district  and  in  hilly  areas  in  the 
Limassol  district.  Some  grapes  were  grown  for  table  consumption, 
but  about  four-fifths  of  the  harvest  was  used  for  wine,  two-thirds 


123 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

of  it  exported.  In  1989  the  grape  harvest  amounted  to  212,000  tons, 
and  wine  production  was  34. 1  million  liters.  The  most  commonly 
grown  grapes  were  the  xymisteria  and  mavro  varieties.  Systematic 
efforts  were  undertaken  by  the  government  to  improve  the  quality 
of  Cypriot  grapes,  and  different  kinds  of  wine  were  manufactured 
to  increase  exports,  mainly  to  Europe. 

Deciduous  tree  crops  common  to  temperate  climates,  including 
olives,  apples,  pears,  peaches,  carobs,  and  cherries,  were  also  grown. 
These  crops  required  some  cool  weather  during  the  year,  and  the 
orchards  were  almost  entirely  in  mountainous  areas.  Almond  trees, 
which  do  not  need  cool  weather,  were  widespread  on  the  plains. 
Olives  were  easily  the  most  important  export  item  of  these  tree  crops. 

Livestock  and  Poultry 

Livestock  products,  including  poultry  and  milk,  made  up  a  sig- 
nificant part  of  the  gross  output  by  value  of  the  agricultural  sec- 
tor. In  1989  there  were  49,000  catde,  325,000  sheep,  208,000  goats, 
281,000  pigs,  and  2,475,000  chickens  in  the  government-controlled 
area.  During  the  1980s,  livestock  production  roughly  doubled,  as 
a  result  of  subsidies,  strict  import  regulations,  and  government- 
sponsored  research  that  improved  both  the  quality  of  livestock  and 
its  management.  Although  Greek  Cypriots  had  become  self- 
sufficient  with  regard  to  pork  and  poultry,  it  was  necessary  to  im- 
port beef,  veal,  and  mutton  to  meet  domestic  needs.  Specialists 
believed  that  the  gradual  lifting  of  import  restrictions,  as  required 
by  the  EEC  Customs  Union  Agreement,  would  put  many  ineffi- 
cient breeders  of  livestock  out  of  business. 

Fishing  and  Forestry 

Fishing  has  been  of  small  importance  to  Cyprus  throughout  his- 
tory. The  intermittent  nature  of  the  rivers  inhibits  natural  propa- 
gation of  freshwater  fish,  and  the  surrounding  waters  are  generally 
deficient  in  the  nutrients  and  associated  plankton  essential  to  the 
growth  of  a  large  marine  fish  population. 

The  Turkish  invasion  resulted  in  the  loss  of  some  of  the  better 
fishing  areas.  By  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  loans  and  subsidies 
from  the  Department  of  Fisheries  had  secured  the  existence  of  a 
fishing  fleet  of  several  hundred  small  vessels,  and  annual  catches 
exceeded  those  preceding  1974.  In  1989  the  catch  totaled  2,600 
tons  at  live  weight. 

The  1980s  also  saw  saltwater  and  freshwater  fish  farms  come  into 
operation.  Much  of  their  production  was  exported.  An  experimen- 
tal fish  farm  was  scheduled  to  open  in  the  1990s  at  Meneou,  near 
Larnaca. 


124 


The  Economy 


Forestry  played  a  very  small  role  in  the  Greek  Cypriot  econo- 
my. In  the  period  1986-1988,  its  value  added  was  0.01  percent  of 
the  agricultural  total  in  all  three  years. 

Nearly  all  of  the  south 's  forests  were  owned  by  the  state,  which 
had  long  managed  an  active  and  sophisticated  program  for  their 
care  and  improvement.  The  Turkish  invasion  of  1974  damaged 
the  island's  forests  extensively,  but  by  the  1980s  reforestation 
projects  had  repaired  much  of  the  harm.  The  College  of  Forestry, 
established  by  the  British  in  the  colonial  period,  enjoyed  an  inter- 
national reputation  for  excellence. 

Mining  and  Quarrying 

For  several  millennia,  Cyprus  was  an  important  source  of  cop- 
per ores  (mainly  cuprous  pyrite)  and  other  ores  and  minerals,  in- 
cluding chromite,  iron  pyrite  (mined  for  its  sulphur  content), 
asbestos,  gypsum,  and  umber  (see  fig.  8).  In  addition  to  these 
minerals,  exploited  mainly  for  export,  limestone,  sand,  and  ag- 
gregates were  quarried  in  substantial  quantities  for  the  domestic 
cement  and  construction  industries.  In  the  1950s,  minerals  account- 
ed for  three-fifths  of  exports  and  employed  6,700  persons.  By  1963 
minerals'  share  of  exports  had  fallen  to  34  percent,  owing  to  both 
a  changing  world  market  and  the  growth  of  other  sectors  of  the 
Cypriot  economy.  The  Turkish  invasion  of  1974  disrupted  or  ended 
much  mining  activity.  Many  deposits  in  the  government-controlled 
territory  were  nearing  exhaustion.  In  1981  minerals  supplied  only 
4.5  percent  of  exports,  and  by  the  end  of  the  1980s  less  than  1  per- 
cent. Mining  and  quarrying  also  employed  fewer  persons:  1,800 
in  1979  and  half  that  in  1987.  The  subsector's  contribution  to  GDP 
had  also  become  quite  small:  0.5  percent  to  GDP  in  1985  and  in 
1986  and  0.4  percent  in  1987  and  1988.  With  the  closure  of  the 
asbestos  mine  in  1988,  the  industry's  contribution  to  GDP  declined 
still  further.  In  1989  the  principal  minerals  mined  were  flotation 
pyrites  (57,455  tons),  copper  concentrates  (1,752  tons),  and  cop- 
per precipitates  (1,080  tons).  The  quarrying  of  sand,  gravel,  and 
road  aggregate  depended  on  construction  demands.  In  the  late 
1980s,  demand  was  generally  good.  In  1982  a  port  was  construct- 
ed at  Vasilikos  on  the  south  central  coast  to  handle  the  mining  and 
cement  production  of  the  Hellenic  Mining  Company. 

Secondary  Sector 

Manufacturing,  the  largest  component  of  the  secondary  sector, 
consisted  mainly  of  light  manufacturing.  Government  policies,  es- 
pecially since  the  events  of  1974,  had  long  aimed  at  strengthening 
light  manufacturing  and  increasing  its  export  production.  The  trade 


125 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


agreement  with  the  EEC  that  went  into  effect  in  1988  could  have 
momentous  effects  on  this  subsector,  most  obviously  in  removing 
the  tariffs  that  had  protected  Cypriot  manufacturing  from  foreign 
competition.  Energy  production  and  construction  were  also  sig- 
nificant components  of  this  sector. 

Manufacturing 

At  independence  the  manufacturing  sector  consisted  almost  en- 
tirely of  small,  family-owned  enterprises,  most  with  fewer  than  five 
workers.  Production  consisted  mainly  of  consumer  goods  and  items 
for  the  construction  industry,  all  for  the  local  market.  Obstacles 
to  the  development  of  larger  establishments  were  the  limited  domes- 
tic market,  a  generally  low  level  of  income,  a  lack  of  available  cap- 
ital, and  a  shortage  of  skilled  labor. 

During  the  period  of  the  second  five-year  plan  (1967-71),  steps 
were  taken  by  the  government  to  encourage  industrial  development. 
Import  duties  on  raw  materials  were  reduced  or  abolished,  and 
tariffs  were  imposed  to  protect  domestic  industry.  Generous  depreci- 
ation allowances  and  tax  remissions  were  granted.  In  addition, 
training  centers  were  set  up  for  management,  technical  personnel, 
and  workers.  Industrial  parks  were  established  in  Nicosia,  Limas- 
sol,  and  Larnaca.  Government  policy  generally  left  manufactur- 
ing to  private  enterprise,  but  in  some  cases,  such  as  the  petroleum 
refinery  at  Larnaca,  the  government  made  direct  investments. 

During  the  plan  period,  some  seventy  larger  manufacturing 
plants  were  constructed.  These  plants  included  a  petroleum  refinery, 
biscuit  and  margarine  factories,  fruit-  and  meat-canning  plants, 
a  brewery,  an  edible  oil  plant,  paper  products  factories,  textile  and 
hosiery  mills,  pharmaceutical  plants,  and  metal  fabricating  plants. 
A  1972  census  of  industrial  production,  covering  Greek  Cypriot 
establishments  plus  estimates  for  the  Turkish  Cypriot  communi- 
ty, showed  that  more  than  four- fifths  of  the  7,612  plants  in  manufac- 
turing (excluding  cottage  industries)  still  had  1  to  4  employees;  only 
about  thirty  establishments  had  more  than  100.  These  larger  es- 
tablishments, however,  accounted  for  81 .4  percent  of  the  value  add- 
ed by  manufacturing.  Despite  this  change,  manufacturing  as  a 
whole  remained  largely  geared  to  the  local  market,  the  principal 
exception  being  canned  goods,  most  of  which  were  exported. 

The  Turkish  occupation  resulted  in  a  major  division  of  the  is- 
land's manufacturing  sector,  because  one-third  of  the  larger  en- 
terprises were  located  in  the  north.  Another  immediate  effect  was 
disruption  of  the  domestic  market.  The  division  also  cut  off  the 
sources  of  some  raw  materials  and  intermediate  goods. 


127 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


The  sharp  general  drop  in  incomes  in  the  south  after  mid- 1974 
forced  the  manufacturing  industry  to  reorient  production  toward 
exports.  A  principal  objective  of  the  first  Emergency  Economic  Ac- 
tion Plan  (1975-76)  was  the  reactivation  of  manufacturing  with 
emphasis  on  the  development  of  such  labor-intensive  industries  as 
clothing  and  footwear  aimed  at  the  export  market.  This  effort  also 
included  measures  to  reestablish  in  the  Greek  Cypriot  area  the  oper- 
ations of  entrepreneurs  who  had  fled  the  Turkish  Cypriot  zone. 
During  this  plan  period,  200  new  or  reopened  plants  went  into 
production,  and  at  the  end  of  the  period  more  than  130  additional 
ones  were  under  construction. 

The  Greek  Cypriot  government  took  other  steps  to  create  an  ex- 
port climate  attractive  to  industrial  entrepreneurs.  Raw  material 
and  machinery  imports  were  duty-free,  a  guarantee  scheme  was 
established  for  bank  credits  for  exports,  and  a  tax  allowance  was 
granted  on  foreign  exchange  earnings  from  exports.  Trade  centers 
were  also  set  up  abroad,  and  there  was  participation  in  foreign  trade 
exhibitions.  Some  indication  of  the  success  of  the  overall  effort  was 
seen  in  the  tripling  of  exports  of  manufactured  goods  from  C£22.5 
million  in  1975  to  C£66.5  million  in  1978.  By  the  late  1970s, 
manufacturing  was  very  close  to  wholesale  and  retail  trade  in  its 
contribution  to  GDP,  and  there  Were  some  1,320  manufacturing 
enterprises  covering  a  broad  range  of  industrial  activity. 

During  the  decade  of  1979-88,  the  contribution  of  manufactur- 
ing to  GDP  at  current  prices  nearly  tripled  (see  table  14,  Appen- 
dix). Manufacturing's  share  of  GDP,  however,  declined  slightly 
during  this  period,  beginning  in  1984.  The  decline  moved  manufac- 
turing into  second  place,  after  the  category  of  wholesale  and  retail 
trade,  restaurants,  and  hotels. 

The  principal  industrial  products  were  food,  beverages,  and 
tobacco;  textiles,  wearing  apparel,  and  leather;  wood  and  wood 
products;  paper  and  paper  products;  printing  and  publishing;  chem- 
icals and  toiletries,  petroleum,  rubber,  and  plastic  products;  non- 
metallic  mineral  products,  such  as  cement;  and  metal  products, 
machinery,  and  equipment. 

The  three  subsectors  of  food,  beverages,  and  tobacco;  textiles, 
wearing  apparel,  and  leather;  and  chemicals  and  toiletries,  pe- 
troleum, rubber,  and  plastic  products  represented  65.4  percent  of 
the  total  gross  industrial  output  in  1979,  and  in  1987  they  represent- 
ed 64.7  percent.  In  1987  the  relative  share  in  industrial  output  of 
food,  beverages,  and  tobacco  was  27.4  percent;  of  textiles,  wear- 
ing apparel,  and  leather,  23.2  percent;  and  of  chemicals  and 
toiletries,  petroleum,  rubber,  and  plastic  products,  14  percent. 
During  the  period  1979-87,  the  two  most  important  subsectors  for 


128 


The  Economy 


exports  were  food,  beverages,  and  tobacco  and  textiles,  wearing 
apparel,  and  leather.  In  1987  they  accounted  for  21.6  and  54.2 
percent  of  total  industrial  exports,  respectively. 

Industrial  output  came  to  depend  on  exports.  The  Arab  Middle 
East  was  a  key  market  for  industrial  production,  but  the  EEC  pur- 
chased 39.3  percent  of  exported  manufactures  in  1987.  These  two 
markets  and  the  protected  domestic  market  absorbed  about  90  per- 
cent of  manufactured  products. 

The  traditional  markets  for  Cypriot  manufactured  goods  could 
not  be  regarded  as  secure  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  The  Arab 
Middle  East  markets  were  often  highly  volatile,  for  both  political 
and  economic  reasons,  and  the  European  market  had  also  become 
increasingly  competitive.  A  main  threat  to  Cypriot  exports  in  these 
areas  were  Asian  manufacturers  with  lower  labor  costs  and  higher- 
quality  goods.  The  domestic  market  was  also  increasingly  threat- 
ened because  the  terms  of  the  Customs  Union  Agreement  with 
the  EEC  required  the  country  to  gradually  dismande  its  highly  pro- 
tective tariff  system.  (In  the  late  1980s,  for  example,  Cypriot  tariffs 
on  clothing  imports  from  the  EEC  were  over  80  percent.) 

In  meeting  these  mounting  challenges,  Cypriot  manufacturers 
were  striving  to  raise  the  quality  of  their  production,  improve  mar- 
keting, and  contain  labor  costs  through  productivity  gains  as  tariffs 
came  down.  The  government  continued  its  longstanding  policy  of 
encouraging  manufacturing  by  improving  the  infrastructure  and 
creating  industrial  parks  and  free  industrial  zones.  It  also  identi- 
fied new  industries  and  products  suitable  for  future  development. 
Because  of  the  number  of  small,  labor-intensive  plants  with  well- 
qualified  workers  adept  at  learning  new  technologies,  the  govern- 
ment recommended  that  these  plants  adopt  the  principle  of  "flexible 
specialization,"  with  modern  design  techniques,  quick  turn-around 
times,  and  computer-controlled  machinery,  to  meet  the  rigors  of 
the  global  market  of  the  1990s. 

Energy  Resources 

Cyprus  had  an  unfortunate  energy  situation.  The  island  had  no 
known  deposits  of  mineral  fuels,  and  the  lack  of  rivers  that  flowed 
year-round  made  significant  generation  of  hydroelectric  power  im- 
possible. The  island  did  have  a  great  amount  of  sunlight,  however, 
and  in  the  government-controlled  sector  about  35  percent  of  houses 
were  fitted  with  rooftop  solar  panels  for  heating  water.  By  1990 
Cyprus  was  one  of  the  world's  foremost  users  of  solar  energy.  The 
only  other  domestic  source  of  energy  was  firewood. 

Petroleum,  all  of  it  imported,  supplied  about  95  percent  of  the 
island's  energy.  Oil  imports  consumed  about  50  percent  of  foreign 


129 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

exchange  earnings  in  some  years.  Imported  crude  was  processed 
by  the  Larnaca  refinery  of  the  Cyprus  Petroleum  Refinery  Ltd. 
In  1989  this  refinery  had  a  capacity  of  17,000  barrels  a  day,  or 
800,000  tons  a  year.  Major  users  imported  their  own  heavy  fuel 
oil  directly  via  oil  terminals  at  Larnaca,  Dhekelia,  to  the  east  of 
Larnaca,  and  Moni,  near  Limassol. 

The  largest  single  user  of  petroleum,  consuming  about  35  per- 
cent of  the  total,  was  the  Electricity  Authority  of  Cyprus  (EAC), 
a  public  corporation  founded  in  1952.  The  EAC  was  responsible 
for  nearly  all  of  the  island's  generation,  transmission,  and  distri- 
bution of  electric  power.  The  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern 
Cyprus"  ("TRNC")  had  no  significant  power  plants  and  received 
its  electricity  from  the  EAC.  As  of  1990,  it  had  not  paid  for  any 
of  this  power. 

In  1989  the  EAC  produced  1.84  gigawatt-hours  from  three  oil- 
fired  thermal  stations,  two  at  Dhekelia  (one  old  plant  with  a  ca- 
pacity of  42  megawatts,  used  only  in  emergencies,  and  a  new  plant 
with  a  capacity  of  240  megawatts),  and  one  at  Moni,  near  Limas- 
sol, with  a  capacity  of  180  megawatts.  The  EAC  also  had  a  few 
small  standby  diesel  plants.  A  number  of  industrial  operations  had 
their  own  generating  facilities.  At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  there 
were  plans  to  construct  a  coal-fired  power  plant  at  Vasilikos  to 
reduce  petroleum  dependency,  but  environmental  concerns  may 
prevent  its  being  built. 

Construction 

Increased  economic  activity  from  the  late  1960s,  stimulated  in 
part  by  the  second  five-year  plan,  resulted  in  a  rapid  growth  of 
construction,  including  new  urban  and  rural  housing,  commer- 
cial establishments,  industrial  facilities,  tourist  accommodations, 
and  government  infrastructure  projects.  The  sector's  growth  rate 
averaged  17.5  percent  per  year  in  current  terms  between  1968  and 
1972  and  rose  to  24.8  percent  in  1973.  Construction  workers  num- 
bered 25,000  to  28,600  in  the  1968-73  period  and  constituted  about 
one-tenth  of  the  island's  gainfully  employed  work  force. 

The  construction  industry  was  hard  hit  by  the  Turkish  invasion 
and  occupation;  construction  by  the  private  sector  ceased  almost 
completely.  In  1975  the  construction  work  force  numbered  only 
about  8,900,  or  6.2  percent  of  persons  gainfully  employed  in  the 
south. 

Commercial  construction  revived  in  1976,  when  the  industry, 
in  response  to  government  policy  decisions  and  actions,  began  to 
build  housing  for  nearly  200,000  refugees,  many  of  whom  were 
living  in  tents  and  makeshift  shacks.  This  construction  boom  lasted 


130 


Clothing  plant,  an  example  of  Cypriot  light  industry 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


until  1981 .  The  boom  was  further  energized  by  events  in  the  Mid- 
dle East,  which  caused  many  businesses  to  move  their  headquar- 
ters or  offices  from  Lebanon  to  Cyprus.  Rapidly  expanding  tourism 
also  stimulated  construction  of  new  facilities,  as  did  industrial  plant 
construction.  After  the  refugees  were  housed,  the  government  be- 
gan its  program  of  building  housing  for  low-income  groups  as  part 
of  a  new,  wider  concept  of  government  social  responsibility.  An 
especially  strong  year  in  the  boom  period  was  1979,  when  the  con- 
struction industry  expanded  36.3  percent  and  made  up  13.4  per- 
cent of  the  GDP  in  1979. 

The  construction  industry  experienced  much  lower  growth  rates 
in  the  1980s.  In  the  1985-87  period,  it  actually  shrank  in  real  terms, 
and  some  Cypriot  contractors  were  obliged  to  go  abroad  to  find 
work.  The  industry  remained  an  important  part  of  the  economy, 
however,  with  regard  to  both  its  contribution  to  the  GDP  and  the 
employment  it  provided.  In  1987,  a  representative  year,  dwellings 
absorbed  about  half  of  total  construction  investment,  nonresiden- 
tial buildings  about  a  quarter,  and  infrastructure  (such  as  roads, 
bridges,  dams,  irrigation  works,  and  telecommunication  and  elec- 
trical transmissions  lines)  the  rest. 

Important  spurs  to  the  construction  industry  were  the  Housing 
Finance  Corporation  and  the  Land  Development  Corporation, 


131 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


government  entities  created  to  enable  middle-  and  low-income  peo- 
ple to  acquire  their  own  houses.  During  the  late  1980s,  these  or- 
ganizations provided  low-cost  loans  and  managed  the  construction 
of  several  hundred  houses  a  year  (in  1989  eighty-two  housing  units 
in  Nicosia  alone).  The  goal  for  1990  was  to  construct  575  units 
in  the  whole  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus. 

Tertiary  Sector 

By  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  service,  or  tertiary,  sector 
had  become  the  most  important  part  of  the  economy  of  the  Republic 
of  Cyprus  and  accounted  for  more  than  half  the  country's  GDP. 
It  was  also  the  economy's  fastest  growing  component  and  through 
this  growth  was  gradually  transforming  the  economy  into  a  postin- 
dustrial  and  information  one.  Tourism  had  long  been  the  most  im- 
portant subsector,  but  in  the  future  financial  and  transport  services 
and  offshore  enterprises  were  thought  likely  to  take  the  leading  role, 
favored  by  the  island's  fortunate  location  between  Europe  and  the 
Middle  East  and  its  stable  social  and  economic  conditions. 

Trade,  Restaurants,  and  Hotels 

Since  the  late  1970s,  the  largest  and  most  dynamic  component 
of  the  service  sector  has  been  that  of  wholesale  and  retail  trade, 
restaurants,  and  hotels  (tourism).  It  grew  at  double-digit  rates  be- 
tween 1979  and  1988,  except  for  1986  (see  table  15,  Appendix). 
Its  contribution  to  the  GDP  in  current  terms  quadrupled  between 
1979  and  1988.  By  the  late  1980s,  with  about  50,000  workers,  it 
had  also  become  the  largest  source  of  employment. 

Tourism  gained  importance  in  this  subsector  during  the  1980s, 
but  had  not  overtaken  trade.  Trade  (wholesale  and  retail)  contribut- 
ed C£76.7  million,  in  current  terms,  to  GDP  in  1979  (79.56  per- 
cent of  the  sector)  and  C£217.3  million  (55.4  percent)  in  1988. 
Restaurants  and  hotels  (tourism)  contributed  C£19.7  million  in  1979 
(20.43  percent  of  the  total  sector)  and  C£174.6  million  (44.55  per- 
cent) in  1988.  The  value  added  to  GDP  by  trade  nearly  tripled 
in  current  prices  between  1979  and  1988,  and  that  of  restaurants 
and  hotels  (tourism)  increased  about  nine  times. 

Tourism  was  seriously  disrupted  by  the  Turkish  invasion  of  1974. 
Only  47,000  tourists  came  to  the  island  in  1975,  down  from  264,000 
in  1973.  However,  under  the  influence  of  the  emergency  eco- 
nomic action  plans  of  1976-78,  1979-81,  and  1982-86,  earnings 
from  tourism  increased  at  least  20  percent  for  eleven  straight  years, 
and  the  number  of  tourists  who  visited  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  went 
from  165,000  in  1976  to  1,376,000  in  1989.  Foreign  currency  earn- 
ings from  tourism  amounted  to  almost  C£500  million  in  1989. 


132 


Dhekelia  Power  Plant 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


Earnings  were  so  significant  that  tourism  was  a  greater  source  of 
foreign  exchange  than  the  export  of  domestic  goods  from  1986 
through  1989. 

Most  of  the  tourists  who  came  to  the  government-controlled  areas 
were  middle-income  Europeans.  For  many  years,  British  visitors 
were  the  most  numerous  and  made  up  about  one-third  of  the  total. 
Swedes  were  the  second  largest  group  in  the  late  1980s,  closely  fol- 
lowed by  Germans.  Most  tourists  came  for  stays  of  about  ten  days 
and  arrived  during  the  warm  months,  despite  efforts  by  the  Cyprus 
Tourism  Organisation  (CTO)  to  achieve  a  more  even  seasonal  dis- 
tribution of  visits.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  CTO  began  to  be  success- 
ful in  increasing  conference  tourism  as  a  step  toward  this  goal. 

By  the  late  1980s,  efforts  were  underway  to  raise  the  quality  rather 
than  quantity  of  tourism  because  the  south' s  ability  to  receive  more 
tourists  had  reached  a  saturation  point.  A  one-year  ban  on  licenses 
for  new  hotels  in  coastal  areas  was  announced  in  March  1989  to 
check  unplanned  development.  The  volume  of  demand  had  sur- 
passed the  available  infrastructure  to  support  it,  with  resulting 
problems  of  traffic  congestion,  water  shortages,  and  inadequate 
sewerage  capacity. 

Future  growth  was  to  depend  on  attracting  wealthier  tourists, 
who  would  spend  more  money  during  their  stays.  This  aim  was 


133 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


to  be  accomplished  by  turning  away  from  simple  sun- and- sea 
tourism  and  developing  higher-quality  hotels  with  facilities  such 
as  golf  courses,  marinas  for  yachting,  and  casinos.  Emphasis  was 
also  to  be  placed  on  building  mountain  resorts  and  developing  the 
island's  archaeological  sites  for  sightseeing. 

Transportation,  Storage,  and  Telecommunications 

Transportation,  storage,  and  telecommunications  contributed 
in  current  prices  8.1  percent  of  GDP  in  1979  and  9.4  percent  in 
1988.  The  subsector  accounted  for  5.5  percent  of  the  gainfully  em- 
ployed in  1979  and  6  percent  in  1987.  The  value  contributed  by 
the  subsector  to  GDP  was  C£48.7  million  in  1979  and  C£178  mil- 
lion in  1988.  Transportation  and  storage  alone  represented  74.7 
percent  of  the  subsector' s  value  in  1979  and  72  percent  in  1988. 
The  subsector  could  be  considered  to  some  extent  trade  because 
of  large  components  in  transshipment  trade,  warehousing  services, 
and  air  passenger  services  connected  with  tourism. 

Transportation 

The  transportation  system  in  the  government-controlled  area  was 
well  developed  (see  fig.  9).  The  road  network  was  satisfactory  for 
passenger  and  freight  traffic.  In  1989  the  government-controlled 
area  had  9,824  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which  5,240  kilometers  were 
asphalted  or  tarred  and  4,584  kilometers  were  dirt  or  gravel.  An 
expressway  linked  the  major  port  town  of  Limassol  with  the  capi- 
tal, and  in  1990  work  was  underway  on  a  highway  to  Paphos  and 
Larnaca  from  this  road.  There  were  no  railroads  in  Cyprus. 

At  the  time  of  the  Turkish  invasion,  the  country's  main  airport 
was  the  Nicosia  International  Airport.  It  was  closed  after  the  Turk- 
ish invasion  of  1974,  however,  because  it  was  located  on  the  At- 
tila  Line  that  divided  the  island.  It  was  replaced  by  international 
airports  at  Larnaca  and  Paphos.  Passenger  arrivals  at  these  two 
airports  totaled  2,900,000  in  1989.  In  1990  about  thirty  airlines 
offered  more  than  100  scheduled  flights  per  week  from  Larnaca 
to  Western  and  Eastern  Europe,  Africa,  the  Middle  East,  and  the 
Persian  Gulf.  A  number  of  charter  passenger  and  freight  flights 
were  also  available.  Cyprus  Airways,  the  country's  national  airline, 
was  both  publicly  and  privately  owned.  It  operated  about  a  dozen 
large  aircraft  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s. 

The  de  facto  division  of  Cyprus  closed  Famagusta,  then  the  is- 
land's main  port.  Larnaca  and  Limassol  took  its  place.  Both  ports 
were  modernized  and  fitted  with  late-design  container  and  break- 
bulk  facilities  that  permitted  them  to  warehouse  goods  and  func- 
tion as  major  container  transshipment  centers  in  the  eastern 


134 


The  Economy 


Mediterranean.  Transit  cargoes  enjoyed  special  treatment,  includ- 
ing minimal  customs  formalities,  free  trade  facilities,  and  special 
rates  for  long-term  storage.  In  addition  to  these  two  ports,  the  is- 
land had  the  smaller  ports  of  Paphos  and  Vasilikos  and  three  oil 
terminals  for  importing  petroleum.  About  100  shipping  lines  in- 
cluded Cyprus  in  their  regular  schedules.  In  1989,  5,678  ships,  total- 
ing 14.8  million  net  registered  tons,  called  at  Cypriot  ports.  During 
the  1980s,  Cyprus  became  a  major  shipping  nation,  moving  from 
twenty-ninth  place  in  the  early  1980s,  in  terms  of  registered  ton- 
nage, to  seventh  place,  with  close  to  2,000  ships  totaling  18.5  mil- 
lion gross  tons.  Most  were  foreign-owned. 

Telecommunications 

Telecommunications  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  were  excellent. 
In  1990  the  island  had  210,000  telephones,  or  30  per  100  popula- 
tion. All  telephones  were  connected  to  automatic  exchanges,  and 
international  direct  dialing  was  available  throughout  the  island. 
International  facsimile  (fax),  data  transmission,  and  telex  services 
were  also  available.  The  domestic  transmission  system  consisted 
of  a  mix  of  coaxial  cables  and  analog  radio  links,  along  with  the 
latest  technologies  of  digital  radio-relay  and  fiber  optics  cables. 
There  were  234,000  television  sets  (color  and  black  and  white)  in 
the  nation  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  The  state  Cyprus  Broad- 
casting Corporation  had  two  radio  stations  and  one  television  sta- 
tion. There  was  also  a  private  radio  station,  and,  in  addition,  the 
British  forces  had  both  radio  and  television  broadcasting  facilities. 
International  communications  were  via  three  submarine  cables,  two 
to  Europe  and  one  to  Lebanon;  tropospheric- scatter  radio  links  to 
Greece  and  Turkey;  and  three  satellite  ground  stations,  two  working 
with  the  International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization 
(Intelsat)  Atlantic  Ocean  and  Indian  Ocean  satellites  and  the  third 
linked  to  the  European  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organisa- 
tion (Eutelsat)  system. 

Finance,  Insurance,  Real  Estate,  and  Business  Services 

Economic  activity  by  this  subsector  expanded  substantially  af- 
ter 1976.  Some  of  the  forces  contributing  to  this  expansion  were 
the  housing  boom,  which  stemmed  from  the  need  to  accommo- 
date refugees  from  the  Turkish-occupied  north;  the  offshore  busi- 
ness and  banking  activities,  which  began  in  the  late  1970s;  and 
other  business  services,  such  as  accounting,  computer  program- 
ming, and  consultancy  services.  Many  of  these  services  proved  to 
be  a  dynamic  component  of  the  economy.  This  subsector  was  not 


135 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


a  large  employer,  but  many  of  those  it  employed  were  among  the 
best  trained  in  the  country. 

Banking  services  in  Cyprus  were  relatively  well  developed.  In  1989 
Cyprus  had  a  central  bank,  eight  commercial  banks,  nineteen  offshore 
banks,  and  four  specialized  financial  institutions.  About  320  bran- 
ches of  the  commercial  banks  were  located  throughout  the  republic. 

The  Central  Bank  of  Cyprus  had  the  exclusive  right  to  issue  notes 
and  coins,  regulate  the  supply  of  money  and  credit,  and  act  as 
banker,  financial  agent,  and  economic  adviser  to  the  government. 
It  supervised  all  banks  and  designated  financial  institutions, 
managed  the  international  reserves  of  the  country,  administered 
the  exchange  control  legislation,  and  determined  the  exchange  rate 
of  the  Cyprus  pound. 

Commercial  banks  were  the  main  source  of  funds  for  working 
capital  and  capital  investment.  They  provided  about  80  percent  of 
the  loan  funds  flowing  into  the  private  sector,  and  also  provided 
housing,  professional,  and  personal  loans.  In  addition  to  providing 
these  conventional  banking  services,  the  banks  had  entered  the  fields 
of  installment-plan  financing,  general  insurance,  data  processing, 
and  trustee  services.  Commercial  banks  had  strong  networks  of 
correspondent  relationships  with  many  foreign  banks,  and  some 
Cypriot  banks  were  connected  to  the  Society  of  Worldwide  Inter- 
bank Financial  Telecommunications  (SWIFT),  an  international 
system  of  telecommunications  for  the  computerized  transmission  of 
commercial  and  financial  messages  among  1 ,500  banks  worldwide. 

Offshore  banks  had  become  an  important  subsector  since  the  first 
offshore  banking  license  was  granted  in  1982.  The  guidelines  gov- 
erning the  establishment  and  operation  of  these  units  were  clearly 
laid  out  by  the  Central  Bank  of  Cyprus.  Offshore  banks  could  only 
transact  business  abroad  and  with  nonresidents  of  Cyprus. 

In  addition  to  offshore  banks,  offshore  businesses  as  a  whole  were 
a  dynamic  element  in  Cyprus's  growth.  Between  1975  and  the  end 
of  the  1980s,  more  than  5,000  permits  were  issued  by  the  Central 
Bank  of  Cyprus  for  the  establishment  of  these  enterprises.  The  is- 
land's central  geographic  location,  English  legal  system,  low  cost 
of  living,  and  generous  tax  incentives  made  it  a  major  center  for 
offshore  businesses.  Many  kinds  of  activities  were  conducted,  in- 
cluding marketing  of  consumer  goods,  transit  and  storage  trade, 
holding  of  property  and  securities,  business  consulting  and  services, 
distribution  and  repair  of  equipment,  architecture  and  town  plan- 
ning, road  and  airport  construction,  maintenance  of  computer  hard- 
ware, ship  management,  and  insurance. 

Foreign  exchange  earnings  from  offshore  enterprises  were 
C£44.5  million  in  1988.  In  that  year,  555  new  permits  were  issued. 


137 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  about  700  offshore  enterprises  maintained 
fully  staffed  administrative  offices  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  em- 
ploying about  3,000  persons,  1,800  of  them  foreigners. 

More  than  fifty  insurance  companies  operated  in  Cyprus.  Many 
were  incorporated  abroad  and  represented  well-known  multina- 
tional insurance  companies.  The  industry  was  regulated  by  the 
government  to  safeguard  the  interests  of  the  insured  and  to  pre- 
vent the  uncontrolled  flow  of  capital  from  the  island. 

Community,  Social,  and  Personal  Services 

The  principal  activities  of  this  subsector  were  personal  and  house- 
hold services,  social  and  related  community  services,  and  recrea- 
tional and  cultural  services  rendered  by  the  private  sector.  As  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus  became  a  wealthier  and  more  diverse  society, 
this  branch's  share  of  GDP  grew,  from  3.4  percent  in  1979  to  5.5 
percent  in  1988  (increasing  fivefold  in  current  prices).  Its  share 
of  the  work  force  grew  even  more,  from  4.7  percent  of  the  gainful- 
ly employed  in  1979  to  7.2  percent  in  1987. 

Foreign  Trade  and  the  Balance  of  Payments 

Cyprus' s  trade  balance  has  been  consistently  unfavorable  since 
before  independence.  Given  its  large  and  expanding  trade  deficit, 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus  was  fortunate  to  have  a  large  and  growing 
surplus  in  its  invisibles  account,  enough  even  to  offset  the  trade 
deficit  in  1987  and  1988  (see  table  16,  Appendix).  The  major  fac- 
tors contributing  to  this  surplus  were  tourist  receipts,  receipts  from 
transfers,  and  income  from  other  goods  and  services  (such  as  for- 
eign military  expenditures  in  Cyprus,  embassy  expenditures,  and 
foreign  exchange  from  offshore  enterprises).  Tourist  receipts  ex- 
panded from  C£232  million  in  1985  to  C£386  million  in  1988.  In- 
come from  other  goods  and  services  increased  from  C£  173.3  million 
in  1985  to  C£208.2  million  in  1988. 

Cyprus  experienced  its  first  overall  balance-of-payments  deficit 
after  independence  in  1973.  During  the  1980s,  the  influx  of  capi- 
tal in  the  form  of  loans  and  investments  was  sufficient  to  give  the 
country  a  positive  balance  of  payments  in  all  years  except  1985 
and  1988,  despite  the  usually  negative  current  account  balance. 

The  foreign  exchange  reserves  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  at  the 
end  of  1988  reached  C£571.8  million,  an  improvement  over  the 
reserves  of  C£501 .2  million  at  the  end  of  1987.  These  reserves  were 
estimated  to  be  sufficient  to  cover  about  nine  months  of  imports. 

Even  though  the  trade  balance  was  chronically  unfavorable,  ex- 
ports had  greatly  increased  since  the  Turkish  occupation  in  1974. 
Exports  of  goods  and  services  rose  by  an  average  of  20.7  percent 


138 


Limassol,  an  important  port  and  tourist  center 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


139 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


annually  (in  current  prices)  during  the  1975-86  period;  they  in- 
creased 16.5  percent  in  1987  and  10.5  percent  in  1988. 

The  main  domestic  exports  had  been  agricultural  exports,  es- 
pecially citrus  fruits  and  potatoes,  and  manufactured  products,  most 
importandy  clothing,  footwear,  chemicals,  and  machinery.  Agricul- 
tural exports  amounted  to  24.7  percent  of  total  domestic  exports 
in  1985  but  declined  to  20.5  percent  in  1988;  manufactured  ex- 
ports were  71.7  percent  of  the  total  in  1985  and  rose  to  77.4  per- 
cent in  1988. 

The  European  Economic  Community  (EEC)  continued  to  be 
the  main  market  for  the  republic's  exports,  absorbing  42.7  per- 
cent of  total  domestic  exports  in  1986,  some  45  percent  in  1987, 
and  47  percent  in  1988.  Among  the  EEC  countries,  the  top  cus- 
tomer continued  to  be  Britain,  with  a  share  of  50.4  percent  in  1988, 
followed  by  Greece  with  a  share  of  19.5  percent.  The  other  major 
block  of  countries  to  which  the  republic's  exports  continued  to  do 
well  were  the  Arab  countries.  In  1986  this  group  took  42.2  per- 
cent of  total  domestic  exports,  in  1987  38.6  percent,  and  in  1988 
36.7  percent. 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus  was  dependent  on  imports  for  many 
raw  materials,  consumer  goods,  transportation  equipment,  capi- 
tal goods,  and  fuels.  Total  imports  increased  from  C£  177.8  mil- 
lion in  1976  to  C£l .  130  billion  in  1989.  The  seemingly  permanent 
trade  deficits  amounted  to  C£365.8  million  in  1987,  C£476.6  mil- 
lion in  1988,  and  C£668.6  million  in  1989.  In  1989  consumer  goods 
were  18.8  percent  of  total  imports;  intermediate  goods  (raw  materi- 
als), 41.6  percent;  capital  goods,  9.5  percent;  transport  equipment, 
20.4  percent;  and  fuels,  9.6  percent. 

Most  of  the  republic's  imports  came  from  the  EEC:  60.7  per- 
cent in  1986  and  54.5  percent  in  1988.  Britain  was  the  largest  source 
of  imports  among  the  EEC  countries,  accounting  for  22. 1  percent 
of  imports  from  the  group  in  1986  and  25.5  percent  in  1988.  Italy, 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany),  and  Greece 
had  the  next  three  largest  shares.  Other  major  trading  areas  that 
provided  imports  to  the  republic  were  Eastern  Europe  (5.2  per- 
cent of  total  imports  in  1986  and  7.1  percent  in  1988)  and  the  Arab 
countries  (7.2  percent  in  1986  and  4.8  percent  in  1988).  The  rest 
of  the  world  provided  26.8  percent  of  imports  in  1986  and  33.5 
percent  in  1988;  Japan  accounted  for  34.7  percent  of  this  group's 
exports  in  1988,  and  the  United  States,  13.6  percent. 

The  balance  of  payments  record  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  in- 
dicated the  economy's  vulnerability  in  the  early  1990s.  Imports 
continued  to  outpace  exports,  resulting  in  ever-expanding  trade 
deficits.  This  situation  would  have  been  worse  if  it  were  not  for  the 


140 


The  Economy 


high  protection  afforded  the  domestic  market.  Although  the  Cus- 
toms Union  Agreement  with  the  EEC ,  which  became  effective  in 
January  1988,  abolished  all  import  duties  on  Cypriot  industrial 
exports  to  the  EEC  countries,  the  real  test  for  Cypriot  manufac- 
turing was  expected  in  the  second  half  of  the  1990s,  when  all  tariffs 
on  EEC  industrial  and  agricultural  exports  to  Cyprus  were  to  be 
phased  out.  EEC  duties  on  Cyprus 's  agricultural  exports  to  the 
EEC  will  also  be  phased  out  by  then.  Although  some  exceptions 
were  allowed,  the  agreement  would  require  free  trade  with  the  main 
Cypriot  export  market. 

The  Customs  Union  Agreement  was  the  outcome  of  long  negoti- 
ations. After  Britain's  entry  into  the  EEC,  Cyprus  signed  an  as- 
sociation agreement,  to  become  effective  in  June  1973  and  to  cover 
a  ten-year  period.  According  to  the  terms  of  the  agreement,  Cyprus 
received  preferential  access  to  the  British  market  in  return  for  a 
35  percent  reduction  of  tariffs  on  EEC  goods,  phased  in  over  five 
years.  A  follow-up  phase  of  the  agreement,  covering  1978  to  1983, 
would  have  led  to  a  full  customs  union.  The  Turkish  occupation 
interrupted  the  natural  progress  of  this  agreement.  Cyprus  was  still 
allowed  to  export  most  of  its  industrial  goods  to  the  EEC  without 
tariffs,  but  rules  of  origin  restrictions  applied,  as  did  some  restric- 
tions on  agricultural  exports. 

The  Customs  Union  Agreement  posed  a  major  challenge  to  the 
highly  protected  manufacturing  sector  of  Cyprus,  revealing  its  com- 
petitive weaknesses.  Only  a  restructuring  of  the  sector  by  increas- 
ing the  size  of  its  units,  reducing  its  labor-unit  costs,  improving 
its  productivity,  and  strengthening  the  marketing  of  products  to 
new  markets  would  allow  it  to  prosper.  At  the  beginning  of  the 
1990s,  the  sector's  restructuring  was  under  way,  and  the  govern- 
ment had  established  the  Council  for  the  Promotion  of  Exports  to 
make  Cypriot  products  better  known  abroad. 

'Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" 

Between  1963  and  1974,  the  economy  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
community  was  that  of  an  underdeveloped  society.  Much  of  this 
backwardness  resulted  from  the  economic  blockade  imposed  by 
Greek  Cypriots  on  the  Turkish  Cypriot  enclaves,  which  largely  cut 
them  off  from  the  outside  world.  The  geographical  separation  of 
the  enclaves  from  one  another  only  worsened  their  plight.  In  ad- 
dition to  external  obstacles,  Turkish  Cypriots  were  not  a  notably 
commercial  people  or  much  involved  in  the  island's  limited 
manufacturing  sector.  Most  Turkish  Cypriots  earned  their  liveli- 
hood from  farming  or  government  employment.  By  the  early  1970s, 
Turkish  Cypriots  accounted  for  only  6  percent  of  the  island's  gross 


141 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary),  although  they  constitut- 
ed about  20  percent  of  its  population. 

The  harsh  economic  conditions  began  to  change  after  the  Turk- 
ish intervention  of  1974  and  the  subsequent  de  facto  partition  of 
Cyprus.  The  Turkish  Cypriots  formed  their  own  "state"  in  1975, 
and  in  1983  declared  the  area  they  occupied  in  northern  Cyprus 
to  be  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC"). 
Once  they  had  their  own  contiguous  territory  and  government,  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  began  to  work  toward  economic  development.  Their 
efforts  were  aided  by  significant  financial  and  technical  assistance 
from  Turkey  and  an  influx  of  workers  from  that  country.  Some  of 
these  workers  came  as  settlers.  Others  were  Turkish  Cypriots  who 
had  left  the  island  during  the  violent  and  uncertain  1963-74  period. 

The  Turkish  Cypriots  had  some  success  in  fashioning  a  work- 
ing economy.  The  GDP  of  the  "TRNC"  nearly  doubled  in  real 
terms  between  1977  and  1990  (see  table  17,  Appendix).  Accord- 
ing to  Turkish  Cypriot  statistics,  the  GDP  of  the  "TRNC"  grew 
at  an  average  annual  rate  of  6.4  percent  between  1977  and  1988. 
The  rate  of  growth  was  7.5  percent  in  1988  and  7.1  percent  in  1989, 
and  similar  growth  was  expected  in  1990. 

In  addition  to  healthy  growth  rates,  the  economy  was  becoming 
more  modern  in  structure.  In  1989  industry's  share  of  GDP  was 
14  percent  and  surpassed  for  the  first  time  agriculture's  share  of 
10.9  percent  (see  table  18,  Appendix).  Services  represented  near- 
ly half  of  GDP,  although  an  unhealthy  proportion  of  this  share 
stemmed  from  government  services  and  employment. 

Turkish  Cypriots  still  lagged  far  behind  Greek  Cypriots  econom- 
ically. For  example,  per  capita  income  increased  from  US$586  in 
1974  to  US$2,245  in  1989,  but  was  only  a  third  of  the  level  achieved 
in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Turkish  Cypriots  often  contended  that 
many  of  their  economic  difficulties  stemmed  from  the  Greek  Cypriot 
effort  to  impose  an  economic  blockade,  cutting  them  off  from  the 
rest  of  the  world  except  Turkey.  There  was  another  cause  of  difficul- 
ties: because  the  "TRNC"  was  recognized  only  by  Turkey,  most 
international  economic  assistance  to  Cyprus  from  international  or- 
ganizations such  as  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  and  the  Euro- 
pean Community  (EC — see  Glossary)  went  to  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus.  In  short,  although  the  Turkish  Cypriots  had  achieved  a 
measure  of  political  independence  and  economic  success,  by  late 
1990  the  "TRNC"  still  lacked  the  external  recognition  necessary 
for  greater  economic  development. 

The  State  and  Economic  Development 

In  the  first  years  after  the  de  facto  partition  of  the  island,  the 


142 


The  Economy 


Turkish  Cypriot  community  had  sought  by  any  means  possible  to 
establish  a  viable  economy.  Faced  with  the  problem  of  creating  an 
economy  from  a  very  small  base,  the  government  became  the  em- 
ployer of  first  resort.  Numerous  semipublic  economic  enterprises 
were  set  up  with  Turkish  aid,  and  a  functioning  economy  was  put 
in  place.  The  Cyprus  Turkish  Industrial  Enterprises  Holding  Com- 
pany, the  Cyprus  Turkish  Tourism  Management  Company,  and 
the  Cyprus  Turkish  Maritime  Company  were  examples  of  these 
state- sponsored  entities.  They  were  nonprofit  and  service-oriented 
and  staffed  by  state-appointed  managers.  State  planners  created 
them  to  meet  economic  needs  the  private  sector  was  unable  to 
satisfy. 

The  State  Planning  Organisation  (SPO)  was  the  agency  respon- 
sible for  planning.  The  SPO  was  subordinate  to  the  prime  minister, 
but  its  daily  activities  were  conducted  in  cooperation  with  the  Minis- 
try of  Economy  and  Finance.  The  SPO  helped  establish  long-term 
economic  goals  and  coordinated  the  planning  activities  of  minis- 
tries. The  two  main  components  of  the  SPO  were  the  State  Plan- 
ning Section  and  the  Coordination,  Executive,  and  Technical 
Assistance  Section. 

The  State  Planning  Section  was  responsible  for  preparing  eco- 
nomic and  social  development  plans.  Such  plans  required  research, 
analysis,  and  project  evaluation.  The  section  also  monitored  the 
implementation  of  plans  and  cooperated  in  preparing  the  govern- 
ment's  Annual  Development  Budget. 

The  Coordination,  Executive,  and  Technical  Assistance  Section 
prepared  the  Annual  Development  Budget  and  supervised  its  im- 
plementation. It  also  implemented  development  plans,  provided 
technical  data  for  the  working  committees  of  the  National  Assem- 
bly, and  prepared  requests  for  technical  and  economic  assistance. 
In  addition,  the  section  published  statistical  reports  on  all  sectors 
of  the  economy. 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  economy  was  mixed,  neither  wholly  state- 
managed,  nor  privately  owned.  Although  the  state  economic  en- 
terprises were  significant  actors,  and  the  state  set  the  overall  direc- 
tion of  the  economy,  the  state  did  not  generally  interfere  in  the 
private  sector  beyond  legislation  that  set  wage  rates  and  taxation. 
The  state  supported  and  encouraged  the  private  sector  through  in- 
vestments in  the  national  infrastructure  and  other  measures.  For 
example,  it  set  up  ' '  free  economic  zones"  to  attract  foreign  invest- 
ment. By  the  late  1980s,  about  fifty  foreign  investors  had  taken 
advantage  of  these  zones'  generous  tax  provisions. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  however,  the  government  changed 
its  policy  in  response  to  persistent  economic  dependence  on  Turkey. 


143 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

In  late  1986,  the  "TRNC"  signed  an  economic  agreement  with 
Turkey,  and  in  1987  a  development  plan  was  formulated.  Both 
the  agreement  and  the  plan  aimed  at  transforming  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  economy  into  one  based  on  liberal  economic  doctrines. 
The  long-term  result,  it  was  hoped,  would  be  a  stronger  economy 
less  dependent  on  Turkish  aid  and  one  that  in  time  would  become 
self-sustaining. 

The  movement  toward  a  liberal,  market-oriented  economy  was 
to  be  realized  by  making  tourism  the  driving  force.  Tourism  would 
pull  the  rest  of  the  economy  into  growth  and  reduce  the  impor- 
tance of  state-owned  and  state-managed  enterprises.  Turkey  in- 
creased its  aid,  much  of  which  went  toward  improving  the 
infrastructure,  and  promised  to  guarantee  all  foreign  investments 
in  the  "TRNC."  The  government  offered  tax  concessions,  long- 
term,  low-cost  leases,  and  reduced  controls  on  transfers  of  foreign 
exchange.  These  and  other  measures  were  successful.  Tourism's 
earnings  tripled  between  1986  and  1989.  Manufacturing  also  in- 
creased its  share  of  GDP,  as  did  nongovernment  services,  and  the 
size  of  the  state  sector  and  agriculture  began  to  fall.  The  ratio  of 
the  public  sector  to  the  private  sector  in  fixed  capital  investments 
gradually  changed  from  two  to  one  to  the  reverse. 

A  key  aim  of  the  new  liberal  policies  was  to  reduce  the  burden 
of  a  swollen  government  sector.  Although  some  reduction  was 
achieved,  serious  problems  in  this  area  remained  at  the  beginning 
of  the  1990s.  Expenditures  for  wages  and  pensions,  for  example, 
made  up  two- thirds  of  the  government's  budget.  Reforms  of  very 
generous  pension  plans  for  civil  servants  were  needed,  as  was  a 
streamlining  of  the  government's  cumbersome  bureaucratic 
procedures. 

Chronic  inflation  was  another  problem  that  needed  to  be  ad- 
dressed. Inflation  rates  ranged  from  lows  of  33  percent  in  1982  and 
1983,  to  a  high  of  over  100  percent  in  1979.  The  year  1988  saw 
a  rate  of  62  percent.  The  most  serious  cause  of  inflation  was  the 
use  of  the  Turkish  lira  (TL;  for  value  of  the  lira — see  Glossary) 
as  legal  tender.  This  currency's  persistently  high  inflation  rate  was 
imported  into  the  "TRNC."  There  were  from  time  to  time  dis- 
cussions of  the  desirability  and  practicality  of  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots'  having  their  own  currency,  but  as  of  1990  no  steps  in  this 
direction  had  been  taken.  Some  inflation,  however,  was  domestic 
in  origin,  stemming  from  excessive  state  spending. 

Although  the  government's  share  of  GDP  declined  somewhat 
as  the  economy  grew  and  modernized,  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s 
the  "TRNC"  still  relied  on  Turkish  aid.  Turkey's  aid  to  Turkish 
Cypriots  in  1990,  in  both  loans  and  grants,  was  expected  to  amount 


144 


The  Economy 


to  TL140  billion  (US$60.5  million),  a  sizeable  increase  over  the 
TL88  billion  provided  in  1989.  An  indication  of  the  increasing 
health  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy,  however,  was  that  in  1988, 
for  the  first  time,  local  government  revenues  substantially  exceed- 
ed Turkish  aid.  The  figures  for  1989  also  reflected  this  change. 

A  potentially  serious  problem  for  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy 
at  the  end  of  1990  was  the  apparent  collapse  of  the  economic  em- 
pire of  Asil  Nadir,  the  only  major  foreign  investor  in  the  '  'TRNC . ' ' 
Nadir  was  a  native-born  Turkish  Cypriot  long  resident  in  Lon- 
don. As  chairman  of  a  large  multinational  company,  Polly  Peck 
International,  Nadir  had  taken  advantage  of  the  government's  "free 
economic  zone"  policy  and  invested  heavily  in  industry,  citrus 
production,  and  tourism.  He  was  surpassed  only  by  the  state  as 
an  employer  in  the  "TRNC,"  with  as  many  as  8,000  people,  by 
some  estimates,  earning  their  livings  from  his  varied  enterprises. 
Late  in  1990,  however,  Nadir's  international  empire  suffered 
reverses  and  faced  possible  bankruptcy  and  liquidation.  The  long- 
term  effects  of  Nadir's  legal  and  financial  difficulties  on  his  invest- 
ments in  the  "TRNC"  were  not  known,  but  the  short-term  ef- 
fects were  painful. 

The  Work  Force  and  Labor  Unions 

Nearly  70,000  Turkish  Cypriots  were  economically  active  in 
1989.  Unemployment  was  measured  at  about  1  percent.  A  short- 
age of  skilled  workers  in  some  areas  required  the  immigration  of 
some  foreign  labor.  According  to  government  statistics,  agricul- 
ture accounted  for  the  largest  share  of  employment,  followed  by 
government  (see  table  19,  Appendix).  These  two  branches  of  the 
economy  accounted  for  just  under  half  the  work  force.  Some  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  economists  have  noted  that  both  these  sectors  were  rela- 
tively inefficient  and  contained  some  hidden  unemployment. 
Agriculture's  share  of  the  work  force  had  slowly  declined  during 
the  1980s,  and  government's  share  declined  by  a  fraction.  The 
shares  of  other  sectors  rose  slowly  as  the  economy  modernized. 

Turkish  Cypriots  enjoyed  a  higher  standard  of  living  than  citizens 
of  Turkey.  The  minimum  wage,  for  example,  was  higher  than  on 
the  mainland.  In  addition,  wages  rose  steadily.  The  chronic  high 
inflation  led  the  government  to  use  a  cost  of  living  adjustment 
(COLA)  mechanism  that  increased  all  wages  every  three  months 
in  step  with  inflation.  This  policy  limited  or  prevented  real  reduc- 
tions in  wages.  In  addition,  annual  merit  raises  were  typical. 

As  of  1986,  the  last  year  for  which  figures  were  available,  one- 
third  of  the  work  force  was  unionized,  a  large  proportion  for  a  de- 
veloping country  with  a  large  agricultural  sector.  The  establishment 


145 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

of  labor  unions  was  free  from  government  interference.  Accord- 
ing to  Articles  70  and  7 1  of  the  constitution  and  the  Trade  Unions 
Law,  no  prior  permission  from  the  state  was  necessary  for  the  for- 
mation of  trade  unions.  The  only  legal  requirement  was  that  a  mini- 
mum of  twenty  persons  should  come  together  to  establish  a  union. 
However,  in  cases  in  which  the  total  number  of  persons  active  in 
a  field  was  less  than  twenty,  but  more  than  three,  a  trade  union 
could  also  be  formed. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  there  were  two  main  trade  un- 
ion federations  in  the  "TRNC."  In  addition,  seventeen  indepen- 
dent unions  represented  about  one- third  of  the  unionized  workers. 
The  oldest  federation,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Trade  Union  Federa- 
tion (Kibns  Turk  I§ci  Sendikalan  Federasyonu — TURK-SEN)  was 
founded  in  1954  and  by  the  mid-1980s  had  about  9,300  members 
belonging  to  fifteen  unions.  This  federation  emphasized  practical 
issues  as  opposed  to  ideology  and  was  a  member  of  the  Interna- 
tional Confederation  of  Free  Trade  Unions  (ICFTU)  and  the  Eu- 
ropean Trade  Union  Confederation.  It  also  maintained  close  ties 
with  the  American  Federation  of  Labor-Congress  of  Industrial  Or- 
ganizations (AFL-CIO).  TURK-SEN  was  closely  affiliated  with 
the  Confederation  of  Turkish  Trade  Unions,  from  which  it  received 
financial  and  technical  assistance  to  promote  job  unionism  in  the 
' 'TRNC."  The  other  major  labor  organization  was  the  Revolu- 
tionary Trade  Unions'  Federation  (Devrimci  I§ci  Sendikalan 
Federasyonu— DEV-i§).  Founded  in  1976,  DEV-i§  had  about 
4,500  members  in  two  unions  in  1986.  It  was  a  member  of  the 
World  Federation  of  Trade  Unions  (WFTU)  and  maintained  close 
relations  with  similar  foreign  trade  unions.  A  strong  rival  to  TURK- 
SEN,  DEV-I§  emphasized  " ideological  unionism"  and  propagated 
leftist  political  ideas.  DEV-i§  operated  freely  in  the  "TRNC," 
although  its  sister  union  in  Turkey  was  declared  illegal  after  the 
1980  military  coup  (and  as  of  1990,  despite  the  return  to  civilian 
rule  in  1983  in  Turkey,  was  still  banned).  To  some  observers,  the 
freedom  of  DEV-I§  was  a  clear  indication  that  politics  in  the 
"TRNC"  was  not  controlled  by  Turkish  authorities,  despite  the 
obvious  economic  and  military  dependence  of  Turkish  Cypriots 
on  the  Turkish  state. 

Primary  Sector 

The  primary  sector  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy  accounted 
for  about  one-tenth  of  the  total  GDP  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s, 
but  its  share  was  in  decline,  indicating  that  the  economy  was  moder- 
nizing. Agriculture  made  up  virtually  all  of  the  primary  sector; 


146 


The  Economy 


fishing  and  forestry  together  accounted  for  less  than  1  percent  of 
Turkish  Cypriot  GDP  in  1990. 

Agriculture 

Although  there  was  a  sharp  rise  in  the  urban  population  in  the 
1980s,  the  "TRNC"  still  had  a  significant  rural  element.  Close 
to  three-fourths  of  its  land  was  used  for  farming  or  forestry,  and 
almost  a  third  of  its  work  force  was  employed  in  this  sector.  Even 
in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  agricultural  products  made  up  well 
over  half  of  all  exports.  The  economy  of  the  ' ' TRNC"  was  be- 
coming more  developed,  however,  and  by  1990  agriculture's  share 
of  GDP  was  only  about  9  percent,  half  of  its  share  in  1980. 

Turkish  Cypriot  farming  became  increasingly  mechanized  dur- 
ing the  1980s.  At  the  end  of  the  decade  there  were  4,500  tractors 
in  the  "TRNC,"  compared  with  975  in  1975,  and  220  combines. 
Modernization  also  brought  extensive  use  of  fertilizers,  insecticides, 
and  feeds.  In  some  areas,  however,  where  modern  methods  were 
not  practical,  traditional  farming  methods  were  still  to  be  seen. 

The  government  attempted  to  ensure  a  steady  rise  in  agricul- 
tural production  by  participating  directly  in  this  sector.  It  estab- 
lished the  necessary  infrastructure  by  carrying  out  irrigation 
projects,  promoting  land  consolidation,  and  constructing  farm 
roads.  The  state  also  oversaw  broad  research  and  education  pro- 
grams to  inform  farmers  of  the  latest  agricultural  methods.  A  quasi- 
governmental  agency,  Tanm  Sigortasi,  provided  insurance  against 
crop  failures.  In  addition,  the  government  helped  farmers  to  or- 
ganize the  marketing  of  their  produce.  Finally,  the  state  provided 
agricultural  credits  and  subsidies  to  farmers  to  help  them  improve 
their  production  and  increase  their  incomes. 

Water  Resources 

Despite  government  support  of  agriculture,  the  future  of  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  farming  was  threatened  by  an  insufficient  supply  of 
water.  Rainfall,  long  inadequate,  in  the  1980s  was  more  meager 
than  usual.  In  addition  to  the  problem  of  scarcity  was  the  difficulty 
of  providing  an  adequate  supply  of  water  throughout  the  year  be- 
cause of  the  high  costs  of  containment  and  distribution.  Extreme- 
ly irregular  river  flow  necessitated  large  storage  capacities,  the 
terrain  required  unusually  high  dams,  and  high  erosion  rates  in 
the  watersheds  required  extra  storage  space  to  allow  for  siltation 
of  reservoirs.  Cost  factors  deterred  significant  construction  by  the 
British  administration  until  the  1950s,  when  a  modest  program  was 
initiated.  After  independence  was  gained  in  1960,  construction  of 
dams  and  supply  systems  accelerated.  In  the  1980s,  the  Republic 


147 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


of  Cyprus  undertook  extensive  water  development  projects.  These 
Greek  Cypriot  projects  sometimes  had  unfavorable  effects  on  Turk- 
ish Cypriots,  because  many  of  the  projects  trapped  water  in  the 
Troodos  Mountains,  where  most  of  the  island's  rainfall  and  snow 
fell,  and  prevented  the  flow  of  water  downstream  into  the  "TRNC." 

Turkish  Cypriots  sought  to  alleviate  their  water  shortage  by  build- 
ing dams  and  a  series  of  irrigation  networks.  In  1989  a  dam  was 
completed  at  Gecitkoy,  at  the  western  end  of  the  Kyrenia  Range, 
and  seven  more  dams  were  under  construction,  with  another  dozen 
or  so  in  the  planning  stage.  As  of  the  late  1980s,  however,  only 
about  5  percent  of  agricultural  land  was  irrigable  throughout  the 
growing  season.  In  1976  Turkish  Cypriots  initiated  a  massive 
reforestation  project  in  the  Kyrenia  Range  in  the  hope  of  attract- 
ing more  rainfall  into  this  region.  The  success  of  all  of  these  projects 
depended  ultimately,  however,  on  the  level  of  rainfall,  which 
declined  during  much  of  the  1980s. 

Land  Use  and  Tenure 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  the  total  area  of  the  "TRNC"  was  mea- 
sured at  2,496,370  hectares.  Of  this  area,  56.7  percent  was  agricul- 
tural land,  19.5  percent  forest,  4.96  percent  uncultivated,  10.68 
percent  occupied  by  towns,  villages,  and  roads,  and  8.16  percent 
unusable.  In  1975,  of  the  agricultural  land,  50  percent  was  culti- 
vated; by  1987,  some  68.7  percent  was  cultivated. 

The  ' ' TRNC"  recognized  three  categories  of  land  ownership: 
private,  state,  and  communal.  The  greatest  amount  of  land  was 
privately  owned.  Unrestricted  legal  ownership  of  private  land  in 
Cyprus  dated  only  from  1946,  when  the  British  administration 
enacted  a  new  land  law,  the  Immovable  Property  (Tenure,  Regis- 
tration, and  Valuation)  Law,  which  superseded  the  land  code  in 
effect  under  the  Ottomans.  Under  the  Ottoman  code,  all  land  be- 
longed to  the  state,  and  those  who  worked  the  land  were  in  effect 
hereditary  tenants  whose  right  to  the  land  was  usufructuary.  Land 
could  be  transmitted  from  father  to  son,  but  could  not  otherwise 
be  disposed  of  without  official  permission.  The  1946  British  law 
ended  this  tradition,  stipulating  that  all  state  land  properly  acquired 
by  individuals  became  their  private  property.  Communal  land  re- 
mained as  before,  but  all  unoccupied  and  vacant  land  not  lawfully 
held  became  the  property  of  the  state.  As  a  result,  virtually  all  forests 
become  state  property. 

The  Muslim  religious  foundation  Evkaf  Idaresi  (Turkish  Reli- 
gious Trust,  usually  known  as  Evkaf)  was  the  largest  private  own- 
er of  property  in  the  '  'TRNC."  Before  the  events  of  1974,  Evkaf 


148 


The  Economy 


owned  1  to  2  percent  of  the  island's  total  farmland.  These  hold- 
ings dated  back  to  Ottoman  times  and  were  mainly  donations  in 
perpetuity  from  members  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community.  Much 
of  Evkafs  land  was  located  in  parts  of  the  island  that  remained 
under  the  control  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus. 

Agricultural  Cooperatives 

The  cooperative  movement  was  established  in  Cyprus  during 
the  period  of  British  rule  to  better  the  economic  conditions  of  farmers 
and  villagers.  As  of  1987,  there  were  257  active  cooperative  socie- 
ties in  the  "TRNC."  Most  villages  and  towns  had  cooperative 
credit  unions  that  provided  savings  and  loan  services  for  members. 
Loans  were  made  both  in  cash  and  in  kind  (items  needed  for  farm- 
ing) to  assist  cooperative  society  members.  One  of  the  banks  oper- 
ating in  the  "TRNC"  was  the  cooperative  societies'  own  bank, 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  Cooperative  Central  Bank.  The  government 
oversaw  the  activities  of  the  societies  through  the  Office  of  the  Regis- 
trar of  Cooperative  Societies. 

Crops 

Crops  made  up  about  70  percent  of  the  primary  sector's  contri- 
bution to  the  GDP  of  the  "TRNC."  Animal  husbandry  supplied 
nearly  all  the  rest,  with  fishing  and  forestry  accounting  for  a  very 
small  share  (less  than  1  percent  between  them).  As  in  the  Repub- 
lic of  Cyprus,  agriculture  in  the  "TRNC"  was  rainfed  or  irrigat- 
ed. Rainfed,  or  dryland,  agriculture  produced  cereals,  fodder, 
tobacco,  olives,  carobs,  almonds,  and  wine  grapes.  Irrigated  agricul- 
ture yielded  citrus  fruits,  deciduous  fruits,  potatoes,  vegetables, 
table  grapes,  and  bananas. 

Cereal  cultivation  in  the  "TRNC"  occupied  one-third  of  all  cul- 
tivated land.  Barley  production  exceeded  domestic  consumption 
requirements,  and  the  surplus  was  exported.  Wheat  production  met 
two-thirds  of  domestic  demand.  Mechanized  farming  had  signifi- 
cantly improved  cereal  production.  In  1975  total  cereal  produc- 
tion stood  at  59,913  tons.  By  1987  production  had  nearly  doubled, 
to  111,867  tons. 

Citrus  fruits  (oranges,  lemons,  and  grapefruit)  were  by  far  the 
most  valuable  agricultural  products.  These  fruits  usually  account- 
ed for  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  total  agricultural  exports  of  the 
"TRNC,"  and  until  the  very  end  of  the  1980s  they  were  a  more 
important  export  than  manufactured  goods.  Citrus  fruits  were 
grown  on  irrigated  land  in  areas  with  mild  winter  weather  near 
Famagusta  (Gazimagusa),  Morphou  (Giizelyurt),  Lefka  (Lefke), 
and  Lapithos  (Lapta). 


149 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Other  important  tree  crops  were  carobs  and  olives,  frequently 
grown  intermixed  on  hillsides  and  mountain  slopes.  Only  a  few 
of  the  1.5  million  olive  trees  in  the  "TRNC"  were  grown  in  groves. 
The  carob  tree,  a  member  of  the  pulse  family,  is  a  native  of  the 
eastern  Mediterranean  whose  seeds  are  used  mainly  for  cattle  fod- 
der. Most  exports  went  to  Britain.  Deciduous  tree  crops  common 
to  temperate  climates,  including  apples,  pears,  plums,  apricots, 
pomegranates,  and  figs,  were  also  grown  in  the  "TRNC,"  but 
to  a  much  lesser  extent  than  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus. 

Industrial  crops  included  fibers  (cotton,  flax,  and  hemp),  spices 
(cumin  and  aniseed),  and  tobacco.  Tobacco  grew  in  the  northeast 
corner  of  the  island.  At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  tobacco  was  not  an 
important  crop,  but  it  did  yield  some  exports. 

The  diverse  topography  and  climate  of  Cyprus  permit  the  culti- 
vation of  a  great  variety  of  other  crops.  An  important  crop  was 
the  potato.  Two  potato  crops  a  year  permitted  substantial  exports, 
mainly  to  Britain.  In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  potatoes  account- 
ed for  about  5  percent  of  Turkish  Cypriot  exports.  Potato  farming 
developed  during  the  post- 1974  years  as  a  result  of  an  improved 
irrigation  system.  Other  vegetables  and  fruits  grown  included  cab- 
bage, cauliflower,  carrots,  cucumbers,  onions,  squash,  strawber- 
ries, tomatoes,  artichokes,  avocados,  bananas,  leeks,  and  okra.  Most 
were  grown  not  only  for  domestic  consumption  but  also  for  ex- 
port. Vines  occupied  the  largest  area  in  the  Karpas  Peninsula,  and 
some  groves  were  also  found  in  the  Kyrenia  (Girne)  region.  Some 
fresh  grapes  were  exported.  Because  of  water  shortages,  however, 
grape  production  fell  to  only  about  100  tons  a  year  in  the  late  1980s. 

Livestock  and  Poultry 

Livestock  was  an  important  part  of  Turkish  Cypriot  agriculture. 
Beginning  in  the  mid-1970s,  the  number  of  animals  raised  increased 
significandy.  The  number  of  catde  increased  40  percent,  from  8,600 
in  1975  to  12,038  in  1987,  and  the  number  of  sheep  rose  from 
147,609  in  1975  to  185,238  in  1987.  The  goat  population  was 
reduced  by  3.3  percent  in  this  period  because  of  the  damage  goats 
did  to  vegetation.  During  this  same  period,  milk  production  in- 
creased by  50  percent,  from  20,000  to  29,937  tons  a  year;  meat 
production  increased  by  166  percent,  from  1,891  to  5,320  tons; 
and  poultry  production  increased  by  265  percent,  from  800  to  2,920 
tons.  In  1985,  1986,  and  1987,  live  animal  exports  to  Arab  coun- 
tries were  an  important  Turkish  Cypriot  export.  For  example, 
government  statistics  indicated  that  20,596  sheep  and  11,104  goats, 
worth  TL1 .6  billion,  were  exported  to  Arab  countries  in  1987.  Live 


150 


151 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


animal  exports  fell  in  the  next  two  years;  it  was  not  certain  what 
future  trends  would  be. 

A  large  and  modern  meat  and  poultry  factory,  financed  by  Tur- 
key, was  built  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s  to  meet  long-term 
consumer  needs  for  these  products.  Completed  in  1989,  with  an 
annual  processing  capacity  of  6,000  tons  of  sheep  meat,  2,600  tons 
of  cattle  meat,  1 ,000  tons  of  goat  meat,  and  3,000  tons  of  poultry, 
the  plant  could  also  use  bones,  leather,  and  other  substances  for 
food  and  other  purposes.  Despite  its  sanitary  advantages  and  highly 
economic  production  costs,  the  plant's  opening  was  prevented  by 
local  agricultural  interests. 

Forestry  and  Fishing 

The  main  forests  of  the  "TRNC"  were  in  the  areas  of  Lapithos, 
Bellapais,  Buffavento,  Kantara,  and  Kartal — all  located  along  the 
Kyrenia  (Girne)  Range.  Forests  located  on  the  northern  slopes  of 
the  Kyrenia  Range  were  a  mixture  of  pine  and  Mediterranean 
cypress.  Forests  on  the  southern  slopes  of  the  Kyrenia  Range  and 
in  the  Karpas  Peninsula  were  mostly  olive  brush  and  tamarisk.  Ce- 
dar and  golden  oak  (both  endemic  to  Cyprus),  plane,  and  alder 
were  also  found  in  the  ''TRNC,"  as  were  species  of  eucalyptus 
and  acacia.  The  Muslim  religious  foundation  Evkaf  had  some  forest 
holdings,  but  most  forests  were  state  owned  and  managed  by  the 
Department  of  Forestry,  under  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and 
Natural  Resources.  One  of  the  department's  aims  was  reforesta- 
tion of  the  barren  slopes  of  Pentadaktylos  Mountain  (Be§parmak 
Mountain)  in  the  Kyrenia  Range  and  other  forest  areas  burned 
during  fighting  in  1974,  estimated  at  forty-eight  square  kilome- 
ters of  "TRNC"  territory.  Forestry  provided  some  employment 
but  was  of  almost  no  significance  to  the  economy  as  a  whole,  ac- 
counting for  only  0.1  percent  of  GDP  in  the  late  1980s. 

The  fishing  industry  met  about  60  percent  of  domestic  demand 
and  was  a  significant  source  of  employment  in  Boghaz  (Bogaz)  on 
the  southern  coast  of  the  Karpas  Peninsula  and  Kyrenia.  Deep- 
sea  fishing  was  done  by  trawlers.  Most  Turkish  Cypriot  fishermen, 
however,  used  small  boats  with  fishing  nets.  Foreign  vessels  were 
not  permitted  to  fish  within  the  six-mile  territorial  limit  of  the 
"TRNC."  In  the  late  1980s,  fishing  accounted  for  only  about  0.6 
percent  of  GDP. 

Secondary  Sector 

The  secondary  sector  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy,  consist- 
ing of  manufacturing,  energy,  mining,  and  construction,  had  shown 
strong  growth  since  1977.  In  1977  the  secondary  sector  made  up 


152 


The  Economy 


13.8  percent  of  the  "TRNC's"  GDP,  and  by  1990,  it  had  grown 
to  21  percent.  In  1990  manufacturing  was  the  sector's  most  im- 
portant branch,  accounting  for  12.3  percent  of  GDP;  construction's 
share  was  7.3  percent;  mining's  share  was  a  negligible  0.3  percent; 
and  energy-related  activities  accounted  for  1.7  percent. 

Manufacturing 

Manufacturing  showed  steady  progress  after  the  late  1970s,  and 
by  1990  was  an  important  component  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  econ- 
omy. In  1989  it  surpassed  for  the  first  time  agriculture's  contribu- 
tion to  GDP.  Only  government  services  and  trade  were  more 
important.  Manufactured  products  were  important  exports.  Their 
share  of  exports  expanded  rapidly  in  the  1980s,  from  19  percent 
in  1981  to  45  percent  in  1989.  Manufacturing's  share  of  employ- 
ment increased  only  slightly,  however. 

Except  for  a  cement  factory  at  Boghaz,  manufacturing  in  the 
"TRNC"  consisted  entirely  of  light  industry.  About  600  firms, 
mostly  small  and  family-owned,  were  active  at  the  end  of  the  1980s. 
Clothing  and  textiles  were  the  most  important  products,  and  cloth- 
ing came  to  account  for  about  30  percent  of  exports  in  the  late  1980s, 
exceeded  only  by  citrus  exports.  A  number  of  foreign  companies 
were  active  in  the  clothing  industry.  Other  manufactured  products 
included  footwear,  leather  goods,  furniture,  chemicals,  paper,  and 
some  metal  items. 

Energy  Resources  and  Mining 

Turkish  Cypriot  manufacturing  faced  frequent  power  shortages 
because  virtually  all  electricity  consumed  in  the  "TRNC"  came 
from  power  plants  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Until  the  second 
half  of  the  1980s,  the  "TRNC"  received  electricity  in  exchange 
for  water  it  supplied  to  the  republic.  By  the  late  1980s,  however, 
the  republic  had  made  extensive  investments  in  water  management 
facilities  and  no  longer  needed  water  from  the  '  'TRNC . "  A  result 
of  this  independence,  Turkish  Cypriots  contended,  was  that  the 
provision  of  electricity  to  them  was  frequently,  even  daily,  inter- 
rupted for  short  periods  beginning  in  the  late  1980s.  To  counter 
the  uncertain  supply  of  electric  power,  Turkish  Cypriots  began  con- 
structing an  oil-fired  power  plant  near  Kyrenia.  Financed  by  Tur- 
key, the  plant  was  scheduled  to  go  into  production  by  1993  with 
a  capacity  of  120  megawatts  and  an  annual  production  of  750  mil- 
lion kilowatt-hours.  Greek  Cypriot  opinion  about  the  power  plant 
was  mixed.  Its  construction  would  mean  that  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  would  no  longer  need  to  supply  the  "TRNC"  with  elec- 
tricity. The  resulting  energy  independence  of  Turkish  Cypriots 


153 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


would,  however,  make  them  less  susceptible  to  Greek  Cypriot 
pressure. 

Like  Greek  Cypriots,  Turkish  Cypriots  were  entirely  dependent 
on  imports  for  petroleum.  All  petroleum  imports  were  in  the  form 
of  finished  products  because  the  "TRNC"  had  no  refineries. 

Mining  was  once  quite  important  for  the  Cypriot  economy,  but 
by  the  late  1980s  it  represented  only  0.3  percent  of  the  GDP  of 
the  "TRNC."  There  was  some  mining  in  the  area  around  Lefka, 
but  about  90  percent  of  mineral  deposits  of  value  were  in  the  Repub- 
lic of  Cyprus.  Minerals  in  the  "TRNC"  that  could  be  exported 
included  cuprous  and  iron  pyrites,  chrome  iron  ore,  manganese 
ore,  gypsum,  earth  colors,  and  lime. 

Construction 

The  construction  industry  was  an  important  segment  of  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  economy  and  provided  about  10  percent  of  employ- 
ment and  about  7  percent  of  GDP  in  the  late  1980s.  Demand  for 
housing,  especially  for  the  refugees  displaced  by  the  events  of  1974, 
extensive  work  on  the  infrastructure,  and  a  rapidly  expanding 
tourist  industry  accounted  for  much  of  this  activity.  Government- 
financed  housing  programs  for  civil  servants  also  helped  maintain 
the  construction  industry.  The  cost  of  government- financed  hous- 
ing of  this  kind  was  cheaper  than  in  the  private  sector  and  permit- 
ted ordinary  wage-earners  to  become  homeowners. 

Tertiary  Sector 

The  tertiary,  or  service,  sector  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy 
grew  in  importance  during  the  1980s  as  part  of  the  economy's 
modernization.  The  greatest  expansion  was  in  trade  and  tourism; 
earnings  from  tourism  tripled  between  1986  and  1989.  Financial, 
business,  and  personal  services  also  grew  more  important  to  the 
economy  in  the  1980s.  Government  still  accounted  for  too  large 
a  share  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy  at  the  end  of  the  1980s, 
but  its  share  was  declining.  A  new  development  in  the  late  1980s 
was  the  founding  of  Eastern  Mediterranean  University  in  Famagus- 
ta.  With  an  enrollment  of  3,500  students  (2,800  of  whom  were  for- 
eign), it  was  a  valuable  new  source  of  employment  and  foreign 
exchange,  and  an  example  of  how  the  Turkish  Cypriot  service  sector 
might  grow  in  the  future. 

Banking 

The  Central  Bank  of  North  Cyprus,  the  central  bank  of  the 
"TRNC,"  was  established  by  law  in  1983  and  began  operation 
the  next  year.  It  performed  the  usual  functions  of  a  central  bank, 


154 


Famagusta  (Gazimagusa)  port 
Courtesy  Office  of  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,  "  Washington 

but  did  not  issue  a  national  currency.  The  Turkish  lira  was  used 
instead.  Establishment  of  a  separate  "TRNC"  currency  was  oc- 
casionally discussed,  but  concrete  action  for  this  purpose  had  not 
been  undertaken  as  of  1990.  Foreign  exchange  was  traded  freely 
in  the  "TRNC,"  with  no  restrictions  on  transactions.  A  free  cur- 
rency exchange  market  was  seen  as  part  of  a  liberal  economy.  The 
government  set  interest  rates  as  high  as  40  percent  for  one-year 
deposits  and  48  percent  for  some  other  deposits  to  prevent  capital 
flight  and  shield  deposits  against  the  effects  of  chronic  high  inflation. 

The  central  bank  monitored  the  activities  of  about  a  dozen  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  banks  and  the  branches  of  several  Turkish  banks  active 
in  the  "TRNC."  By  the  late  1980s,  the  largest  commercial  bank 
was  the  Turk  Bankasi,  followed  by  the  Cyprus  Credit  Bank  and 
the  Cyprus  Commercial  Bank.  The  cooperative  movement's  bank, 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  Cooperative  Central  Bank,  was  important  to 
cooperative  members  throughout  the  "TRNC."  The  Muslim  re- 
ligious foundation  Evkaf  had  its  own  bank,  Kibns  Vakiflar  Bankasi, 
which  managed  the  foundation's  financial  assets  and  the  revenue 
accruing  to  it  from  its  widespread  and  varied  real  estate  holdings. 

Transportation 

According  to  government  statistics,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  road 


155 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

network  in  the  mid-1980s  consisted  of  5,280  kilometers  of  paved 
and  800  kilometers  of  unpaved  roads.  In  an  effort  to  support  farm- 
ing, the  government  constructed  many  service  roads.  The  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Works  was  responsible  for  about  2,720  kilometers 
of  paved  roads,  and  the  rest  came  under  the  jurisdiction  of  municipal 
administrations.  After  1974,  major  highways  were  built  between 
Nicosia  and  Morphou,  Nicosia  and  Kyrenia,  and  Nicosia  and  Er- 
can  Airport.  Another  highway  to  Gecitkale  Airport  was  under  con- 
sideration in  the  late  1980s. 

The  two  major  international  airports  in  the  "TRNC,"  Ercan 
and  Gecitkale,  were  both  administered  by  the  Department  of  Civil 
Aviation.  Ercan  Airport  was  equipped  with  navigational  aids  and 
equipment  and  was  capable  of  handling  all  types  of  aircraft  (in- 
cluding the  DC- 10  and  Airbus  300).  About  120,000  passengers 
traveled  through  Ercan  Airport  each  year.  The  national  airline  of 
the  "TRNC,"  Turkish  Cypriot  Airlines,  operated  a  small  fleet  of 
large,  modern  aircraft. 

The  major  ports  of  the  "TRNC"  were  Famagusta,  Kyrenia, 
and  Kalecik,  located  on  the  southwestern  coast  of  the  Karpas  Penin- 
sula. Famagusta  was  the  main  multipurpose  port,  capable  of  receiv- 
ing in  its  inner  harbor  vessels  up  to  131  meters  in  length  and  with 
a  draft  of  up  to  6.7  meters.  Part  of  Famagusta's  outer  harbor  was 
a  free  port.  Famagusta's  port  was  equipped  with  tugboats,  mobile 
and  floating  cranes,  forklifts,  warehouses,  and  a  quay-connected 
modern  silo  with  a  storage  capacity  of  20,000  tons.  In  1975,  608 
ships  sailed  into  the  port.  In  1987  this  number  increased  to  1,042. 
The  number  of  passengers  increased  from  65,403  to  91,986,  and 
the  total  tonnage  of  goods  entering  the  port  from  72,755  to  290,736 
tons. 

The  port  of  Kalecik  consisted  of  two  privately  owned  sections. 
One  was  equipped  with  a  conveyor  belt  for  bulk  and/or  bagged 
cargo  and  a  pier  42  meters  in  length.  The  other  section  was  a  tanker 
terminal  with  submerged  pipelines. 

Kyrenia' s  small  port  had  a  maximum  depth  of  3.2  meters  and 
was  used  mainly  as  a  yacht  harbor.  Newer  facilities  to  the  east  of 
the  old  port  served  as  loading  docks  for  ferries  between  the  island 
and  Turkey.  The  new  port's  total  quay  length  in  the  mid-1980s 
was  409  meters;  the  main  quay  was  150  meters  long,  with  an  aver- 
age depth  of  8  meters.  In  1987  more  than  400  ships  visited  the  port, 
bringing  37,000  passengers  and  1,500  vehicles. 

Telecommunications 

Telephone,  telex,  fax,  and  telegraph  communications  between 
the  "TRNC"  and  the  outside  world  were  carried  out  via  fully 


156 


The  Economy 


automatic  exchange  services.  All  villages  and  towns  were  connect- 
ed to  this  system,  and  40,000  households  had  telephones.  Substantial 
assistance  from  Turkey  financed  the  modernization  of  the  telecom- 
munications system.  A  further  modernization  of  this  system, 
planned  in  the  late  1980s,  included  the  installation  of  a  fully  com- 
puterized digital  exchange  system  with  fiber  optic  lines.  By  early 
1990,  some  fiber  optics  were  already  in  use.  At  the  beginning  of 
the  1990s,  there  were  75,000  television  sets  (color  and  black  and 
white)  in  the  "TRNC."  The  state  Bayrak  Radio  and  Television 
Corporation  had  eight  radio  and  three  television  stations. 

Tourism 

Tourism  was  the  most  important  source  of  foreign  currency  in 
the  late  1980s,  earning  US$1 18  million  in  1988  and  US$126.8  mil- 
lion in  1989.  The  "TRNC"  had  direct  air  and  sea  links  only  to 
Turkey  because  this  country  alone  recognized  it  as  an  indepen- 
dent nation.  Despite  this  handicap,  the  number  of  foreign  tourists 
from  countries  other  than  Turkey  increased  substantially  in  the 
late  1980s,  as  did  the  foreign  exchange  they  brought  with  them. 

The  number  of  tourists  coming  to  the  "TRNC"  tripled  during 
the  1980s,  from  87,000  in  1981  to  310,000  in  1990.  About  20  per- 
cent of  the  tourists  were  from  countries  other  than  Turkey.  The 
number  of  tourist  beds  approximately  doubled  during  the  1980s, 
to  more  than  7,000  by  1990.  Tourism  became  a  year-round  busi- 
ness, with  a  professional  staff  trained  at  the  Hotel  and  Catering 
Training  Center  at  Kyrenia.  This  facility  was  under  the  Ministry 
of  Tourism  and  Culture.  A  range  of  accommodations  was  availa- 
ble, from  campsites  to  luxury  hotels.  Tourism  was  expected  to  con- 
tinue to  grow  in  the  1990s. 

The  expansion  of  tourism  was  especially  noticeable  in  the  late 
1980s.  Earnings  more  than  tripled  between  1986  and  1989.  This 
increase  was  a  result  of  the  government's  decision  in  late  1986  to 
make  tourism  the  locomotive  that  would  pull  the  entire  economy. 
To  promote  the  tourism  industry  and  attract  foreign  investment 
in  it,  the  government  introduced  a  number  of  incentives,  includ- 
ing long-term,  low-cost  leases  on  government-owned  land  and  build- 
ings, exemption  of  many  goods  serving  tourism  from  import  duties, 
and  exemption  or  moderation  of  some  taxes. 

Foreign  Trade 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  the  "TRNC"  traded  with  more 
than  sixty  countries  around  the  world.  Among  these  trading  part- 
ners were  members  of  the  EC,  countries  of  the  Middle  East,  the 
United  States,  Japan,  and  numerous  other  countries  in  Africa  and 


157 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Asia.  Lack  of  recognition  of  the  "TRNC"  and  the  economic  and 
political  blockade  imposed  by  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  made  it 
difficult  for  the  "TRNC"  to  establish  direct  and  regular  sea  and 
air  links  with  countries  other  than  Turkey.  The  blockade  could  be 
circumvented,  however,  by  trading  through  international  com- 
panies. 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  economy  suffered  from  a  chronic  trade 
deficit.  During  the  1980s,  imports  often  exceeded  imports  by  mar- 
gins of  three  and  four  to  one,  and  in  some  years,  1989  for  exam- 
ple, the  ratio  was  even  worse  (see  table  20,  Appendix).  More  than 
half  the  imports  were  of  manufactured  goods;  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot economy  had  a  small  manufacturing  sector.  Foods,  fuels,  and 
chemicals  accounted  for  most  of  the  remaining  imports. 

Turkey  was  by  far  the  main  source  of  imports  (see  table  2 1 ,  Ap- 
pendix). In  the  late  1980s,  Turkey  supplied  roughly  two-fifths  of 
total  imports.  Countries  of  the  EC  supplied  one- third,  half  of  which 
came  from  Britain.  The  Far  East  was  the  source  of  most  of  the 
remainder. 

The  most  important  customer  for  Turkish  Cypriot  goods  in  the 
late  1980s  was  Britain,  which  took  about  two-thirds  notably  citrus 
fruits  and  vegetables.  The  other  EC  countries  bought  a  much 
smaller  share,  and  Turkey  accounted  for  12  to  17  percent  between 
1986  and  1989.  The  Middle  East  fluctuated  widely  in  its  share  of 
Turkish  Cypriot  exports,  buying  10.2  percent  in  1986  and  3.6  per- 
cent in  1988.  The  Far  East  purchased  virtually  no  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot goods. 

The  government  attempted  to  stimulate  trade  by  various 
means,  including  liberal  tax  concessions  and  the  free  exchange  of 
foreign  currency.  The  establishment  of  a  free  port  and  zone  at 
Famagusta  in  late  1977  was  another  government  initiative  to  boost 
foreign  trade.  To  make  business  in  the  free  port  attractive  to  in- 
vestors, the  government  exempted  income  from  activities  there  from 
corporate  and  income  taxes.  Imports  into  the  free  port  and  zone 
were  also  exempt  from  duties  and  tolls.  Import  duties  elsewhere 
in  the  "TRNC"  could  be  onerous.  Furthermore,  profits  and  cap- 
ital from  the  free  port  and  zone  could  be  repatriated  without  limit. 
In  addition  to  these  highly  competitive  concessions,  the  area's  in- 
frastructure was  suitable  for  all  kinds  of  manufacturing,  process- 
ing, and  construction  activities. 

*    *  * 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus  and  its  ministries,  departments,  and 
banks  publish  a  variety  of  statistical  reports  that  provide  useful 


158 


The  Economy 


economic  information,  usually  with  a  one-  to  two-year  time  lag. 
Particularly  relevant  are  the  Annual  Reports  of  the  Central  Bank  of 
Cyprus,  the  Economic  Reports  of  the  Department  of  Statistics  and 
Research,  Ministry  of  Finance;  the  Annual  Reports  of  the  Cyprus 
Telecommunications  Authority  and  of  the  Cyprus  Electricity 
Authority;  and  the  special  reports  of  the  Cyprus  Development  Bank 
on  issues  such  as  "Consumption  Expenditures  in  Cyprus"  and 
"The  Cyprus  Economy." 

Other  noteworthy  reports  and  studies  include  reports  from  the 
International  Trade  Administration  of  the  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Commerce  (prepared  by  the  American  Embassy  in  Nico- 
sia), which  summarize  major  economic  trends,  especially  those 
pertinent  to  the  United  States  economy.  The  Economist  Intelli- 
gence Unit's  Country  Report:  Lebanon,  Cyprus  and  Country  Profile:  Leb- 
anon, Cyprus  offer  quarterly  and  annual  analyses,  respectively,  of 
economic  and  political  trends  in  Cyprus.  A  monograph  by  John 
Hudson  and  Marina  Dymiotou-Jensen,  Modelling  a  Developing  Coun- 
try, gives,  among  other  things,  a  brief  and  expert  account  of  the 
government's  planning  process. 

The  sources  most  readily  available  for  those  wishing  to  know 
more  of  the  economy  of  the  "TRNC"  are  published  by  Europa 
Publications  Ltd.  The  Europe  World  Year  Book  and  The  Middle  East 
and  North  Africa,  for  example,  will  provide  much  basic  information. 
North  Cyprus  Almanack,  published  by  K.  Riistem  and  Brother  in  Lon- 
don, treats  a  number  of  aspects  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  economy. 
The  State  Planning  Organisation  of  the  "TRNC"  publishes  an- 
nual comprehensive  economic  statistics.  These  are  available  at 
"TRNC"  offices  around  the  world.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


159 


Artist's  rendition  of  early  map  of  Cyprus 


THE  SHAPE,  STRUCTURE,  AND  STATUS  of  Cyprus's 
government  have  been  sources  of  bitter  controversy  since  indepen- 
dence in  1960,  and  have  become  the  "national"  question  for  both 
Greek  Cypriots  and  Turkish  Cypriots.  Politics  in  both  communi- 
ties, governed  separately  since  1964  and  physically  separated  since 
1974,  have  been  dominated  by  the  lack  of  consensus,  both  between 
and  within  the  two  communities,  over  the  very  identity  of  the  state 
and  the  structure  of  its  government  and  political  institutions. 

The  original  political  arrangements  outlined  in  the  1960  consti- 
tution were  in  effect  for  only  three  years.  By  1963,  after  proposals 
by  President  Archbishop  Makarios  III  (1960-77)  to  amend  the  con- 
stitution in  ways  widely  viewed  as  favoring  the  majority  Greek 
Cypriot  population,  Turkish  Cypriots  withdrew  from  many  na- 
tional institutions  and  began  self-government  in  the  Turkish  quar- 
ters of  the  island's  towns  and  cities  and  in  Turkish  Cypriot  villages. 

A  more  significant  change  occurred  after  the  1974  Turkish  in- 
tervention. Following  the  dislocation  and  resettlement  of  large  seg- 
ments of  both  communities,  the  current  situation  emerged:  two 
separate  governments — only  one  of  which  enjoys  international 
recognition  as  the  legitimate  government — functioning  in  two  dis- 
crete geographic  zones.  In  February  1975,  the  provisional  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  administration  declared  itself  the  "Turkish  Federated 
State  of  Cyprus"  ("TFSC"),  although  it  stated  its  intention  to  move 
toward  a  federal  solution  with  the  Greek  Cypriots  and  pledged  not 
to  seek  recognition  as  an  independent  state.  In  October  1983,  af- 
ter continued  stalemate  of  United  Nations  (UN)  efforts  toward  a 
settlement,  Turkish  Cypriots  renamed  their  "state"  the  "Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC").  While  restating  their 
commitment  to  working  toward  a  federal  solution,  Turkish  Cypriot 
authorities  launched  an  international  campaign  for  recognition  of 
their  state,  arguing  that  recognition  would  facilitate  a  solution  by 
according  the  island's  two  political  entities  equal  status.  As  of  the 
early  1990s,  however,  only  Turkey  had  recognized  the  "TRNC." 

Greek  Cypriots  maintained  that  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  estab- 
lished in  1960  continued  to  exist,  with  functioning  institutions,  ab- 
sent Turkish  Cypriot  participation.  The  status  of  the  1959  treaties 
that  established  the  republic  in  1960  remained  in  dispute,  posing 
a  challenge  to  the  Greek  Cypriot  claim  of  legal  authority  and 
sovereignty  over  the  whole  island  (except  for  the  256  square  kilo- 
meters that  are  sovereign  British  base  areas).  The  Greek  Cypriot 


163 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

position  on  the  legal  status  of  the  1959  agreements  is  not  completely 
clear.  The  late  president  Makarios  attempted  to  invalidate  the 
Treaty  of  Guarantee,  and  later  Greek  Cypriot  leaders  claimed  it 
violated  their  sovereignty,  but  on  occasion  they  have  tried  to  in- 
voke it.  For  example,  after  the  1983  Turkish  Cypriot  declaration 
of  statehood,  the  republic's  president  tried  to  persuade  the  British 
government  to  intervene  under  the  terms  of  that  treaty's  Article  IV. 

Since  the  1974  crisis  and  the  emergence  of  the  Cyprus  question 
as  an  international  political  problem,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  has 
had  three  presidents.  Makarios,  the  dominant  political  and  reli- 
gious figure  for  Greek  Cypriots,  died  of  a  heart  attack  in  the  sum- 
mer of  1977  at  age  sixty-three.  He  was  succeeded  by  Spyros 
Kyprianou,  leader  of  the  ruling  Democratic  Front,  and  Makari- 
os's  ecclesiastical  responsibilities  were  assumed  by  Bishop  Chry- 
sostomos  of  Paphos.  Kyprianou  was  reelected  unopposed  in 
January  1978  and  was  reelected  in  contested  elections  in  1983.  In 
February  1988,  Kyprianou  was  ousted  in  an  upset  by  newcomer 
George  Vassiliou,  a  successful  businessman  with  no  party  affilia- 
tion, who  campaigned  on  a  promise  to  bring  fresh  ideas  and  ener- 
gy to  the  settlement  process. 

Leadership  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  has  remained  since 
1974  in  the  hands  of  Rauf  Denkta§,  elected  president  of  the  "Turk- 
ish Federated  State  of  Cyprus"  ("TFSC")  in  July  1975  and  re- 
elected in  1981.  In  1985,  under  a  new  constitution  in  the  newly 
formed  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC"), 
Denkta§  again  won  at  the  polls,  by  a  vote  of  70.4  percent,  and  in 
April  1990  received  67.1  percent  of  the  vote,  defeating  two  op- 
ponents. 

The  search  for  a  settlement  through  creation  of  a  new  federal 
republic  continued  in  the  late  1980s  and  in  1990.  Talks  intensified 
after  Vassiliou 's  election,  and  the  UN-sponsored  negotiations  be- 
tween Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots  in  1988-90  aimed  at  outlining 
a  framework  for  establishing  a  federal  republic  that  would  be  bi- 
communal  with  respect  to  constitutional  issues  and  bizonal  with 
respect  to  territorial  concerns.  Early  optimism  that  Vassiliou  would 
be  the  catalytic  force  to  bring  the  talks  to  a  successful  conclusion 
was  dampened  when  talks  broke  down  in  early  1990.  Despite  ten- 
tative progress  on  closing  the  gap  between  Greek  Cypriot  demands 
for  freedom  of  movement,  property,  and  settlement  and  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  demand  for  strict  bizonality  with  considerable  authority 
to  the  two  provinces  or  states,  the  process  was  encumbered  by  deep 
mistrust  between  the  two  sides  and  a  growing  conviction  that  the 
Turkish  Cypriot  side  was  more  inclined  to  work  for  its  separate 
status  than  for  power  sharing  in  a  unitary  state  with  Greek  Cypriots. 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


Background 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus  was  created  in  1960  through  interna- 
tional agreements  reached  in  Zurich  and  London  in  February  1959, 
with  a  constitution  that  went  into  effect  in  August  1960.  The  con- 
stitution recognized  the  strong  bicommunal  character  of  the  new 
state,  with  elaborate  safeguards  for  the  minority  Turkish  Cypriot 
community.  In  the  preindependence  debate  over  the  governmen- 
tal structure  of  the  new  state,  neither  Britain  nor  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot community  accepted  the  concept  of  " minority  rights"  as  an 
organizing  principle.  Rather,  the  Turkish  Cypriots  were  recognized 
as  one  of  two  "communities"  with  certain  rights;  the  legitimacy 
of  the  state  would  derive  from  the  partnership  between  the  two  com- 
munities. The  Cypriot  consociational  experiment  had  some  unique 
features  designed  to  achieve  a  delicate  balance  between  the  prevail- 
ing Greek  Cypriot  preference  for  a  unitary  state  and  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  desire  for  as  much  recognition  as  a  separate  political  enti- 
ty as  possible.  The  tension  between  these  two  communal  priorities 
proved  insurmountable. 

Since  1964,  the  constitution  of  1960  has  not  been  the  legal  docu- 
ment governing  relations  between  the  two  communities,  although 
it  remains  the  basis  of  government  and  law  for  the  80  percent  of 
the  population  that  are  Greek  Cypriot  and  residing  in  the  two- thirds 
of  the  island  controlled  by  the  authorities  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus. 
The  "TRNC"  approved  a  new  constitution  in  1985,  which  estab- 
lished a  parliamentary  system  in  the  north. 

1960  Constitution 

At  independence,  Cyprus' s  constitution  called  for  a  government 
divided  into  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial  branches,  headed 
by  a  president,  with  strong  guarantees  for  the  Turkish  Cypriot  com- 
munity. The  constitution  arranged  for  a  Greek  Cypriot  president 
and  Turkish  Cypriot  vice  president,  elected  by  their  respective  com- 
munities for  five-year  terms  of  office.  Members  of  the  island's  other 
minorities — Armenians,  Maronites,  and  Roman  Catholics — were 
given  the  option  of  joining  one  of  the  communities  for  voting  pur- 
poses. All  chose  to  be  identified  as  Greek,  although  some  have  con- 
tinued to  live  in  the  Turkish  zone  since  the  1974  division  of  the 
island.  Greek  and  Turkish  were  designated  as  official  languages, 
and  the  two  communities  were  given  the  right  to  celebrate,  respec- 
tively, Greek  and  Turkish  national  holidays. 

The  constitution  further  provided  that  executive  power  in  all  but 
communal  matters  be  vested  in  the  president  and  vice  president. 
The  two  executives  had  the  right  of  veto,  separately  or  jointiy,  over 


165 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

certain  laws  or  decisions  of  both  the  Council  of  Ministers  and  the 
House  of  Representatives,  the  legislative  body.  The  constitution 
spelled  out  in  detail  their  powers  and  duties. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  was  to  be  composed  of  seven  Greek 
Cypriots  and  three  Turkish  Cypriots,  with  the  former  appointed 
by  the  president  and  the  latter  by  the  vice  president.  Decisions  of 
the  council  were  to  be  taken  by  absolute  majority.  Of  three  key 
portfolios — defense,  finance,  and  foreign  affairs — one  was  to  be 
held  by  a  Turkish  Cypriot. 

The  unicameral  House  of  Representatives  was  designed  to  legis- 
late for  the  republic  in  all  matters  except  those  expressly  reserved 
to  separate  communal  chambers.  The  constitution  provided  that 
thirty-five  of  its  members  be  Greek  Cypriots  and  fifteen  Turkish 
Cypriots.  (Representation  in  proportion  to  communal  strength 
would  have  resulted  in  a  forty-to-ten  ratio.)  Members,  elected  from 
separate  communal  rolls,  were  to  serve  for  terms  of  five  years.  The 
president  of  the  House  of  Representatives  was  to  be  a  Greek  Cypriot 
and  its  vice  president,  a  Turkish  Cypriot. 

Voting  in  the  House  of  Representatives  was  to  be  by  majority, 
except  that  separate  majorities  in  the  two  communities  were  re- 
quired for  imposition  of  taxes  or  duties,  modification  of  the  elec- 
toral law,  or  laws  relating  to  the  separate  municipalities  in  the  five 
main  towns.  The  establishment  of  these  municipalities  became  one 
of  the  most  controversial  intercommunal  issues.  Although  the  con- 
stitution called  for  their  establishment,  implementing  legislation 
was  never  passed  because  the  Greeks  were  convinced  that  such  laws 
could  lead  to  partition.  Turkish  Cypriots  have  long  cited  this  issue 
as  evidence  of  the  Greek  Cypriots'  intention  to  undermine  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriots'  separate  communal  identity. 

The  constitution  also  called  for  the  creation  of  two  communal 
chambers,  composed  of  representatives  elected  by  each  communi- 
ty. These  chambers  were  empowered  to  deal  with  religious,  educa- 
tional, and  cultural  matters,  questions  of  personal  status,  and  the 
supervision  of  cooperatives  and  credit  societies.  To  supplement  an 
annual  provision  to  the  chambers  from  the  government  budget, 
the  constitution  enabled  the  communal  chambers  to  impose  taxes 
and  fees  of  their  own  to  support  their  activities. 

The  judicial  system  broadly  outlined  in  the  Zurich-London  ac- 
cords and  stipulated  in  detail  in  the  constitution  included  the 
Supreme  Constitutional  Court,  the  High  Court  of  Justice,  district 
and  assize  courts,  and  communal  courts.  At  the  summit  was  the 
Supreme  Constitutional  Court,  composed  of  three  judges:  a  Greek 
Cypriot,  a  Turkish  Cypriot,  and  a  contracted  judge  from  a  neutral 
country  who  would  serve  as  president  of  the  court.  The  president, 


166 


Government  and  Politics 


who  was  entitled  to  two  votes,  would  serve  for  six  years,  while  the 
Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  judges  would  serve  until  age 
sixty-eight.  The  court  was  to  have  final  jurisdiction  on  matters  of 
constitutional  interpretation  and  adjudication  of  disputes  center- 
ing on  alleged  discrimination  in  law  against  either  of  the  two  com- 
munities. 

This  bicommunal  structure  was  duplicated  in  the  High  Court 
of  Justice,  which  exercised  appellate  jurisdiction  over  lower  courts 
in  civil  and  criminal  matters.  The  lower  courts  were  assize  courts, 
with  criminal  jurisdiction,  and  district  courts,  with  civil  jurisdic- 
tion except  in  questions  of  personal  status  and  religious  matters. 
Disputes  between  plaintiffs  and  the  defendants  belonging  to  the 
same  community  were  to  be  tried  by  tribunals  composed  of  judges 
belonging  to  the  appropriate  community.  Disputes  between  members 
of  different  communities  were  to  be  tried  by  mixed  tribunals  whose 
compositions  were  to  be  determined  by  the  High  Court  of  Justice. 

Civil  disputes  relating  to  questions  of  personal  status  and  reli- 
gious matters  were  to  be  tried  in  communal  courts.  These  courts 
were  rigidly  limited  in  jurisdiction  and  could  not  impose  restraint, 
detention,  or  imprisonment. 

The  constitution  set  forth  other  safeguards  for  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot minority  in  sections  dealing  with  the  civil  service  and  the  armed 
forces  of  the  republic.  According  to  the  1960  census,  Greek  Cypriots 
composed  77  percent  of  the  population,  Turkish  Cypriots  18.3  per- 
cent, and  other  minorities  the  remainder.  The  constitution  required 
that  the  two  groups  be  represented  in  the  civil  service  at  a  ratio 
of  70  to  30  percent.  In  addition,  the  republic  was  to  have  an  army 
of  2,000  members,  60  percent  Greek  Cypriot  and  40  percent  Turk- 
ish Cypriot.  After  an  initial  period,  a  2,000-member  security  force 
consisting  of  police  and  gendarmerie  was  to  be  70  percent  Greek 
Cypriot  and  30  percent  Turkish  Cypriot. 

The  organizational  structure  and  qualifications  of  the  civil  ser- 
vice were  laid  down  on  the  model  of  the  British  civil  service,  with 
provisions  for  tenure,  career  status,  and  promotion  through  a  grade- 
level  system.  The  ten-member  Public  Service  Commission  de- 
termined the  rules  of  conduct  and  qualifications  for  the  various 
positions. 

1963  Constitutional  Breakdown 

The  1960  constitution  did  not  succeed  in  providing  the  frame- 
work for  a  lasting  compromise  between  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots. 
Rather,  its  bicommunal  features  impeded  administration  and  gave 
rise  to  continuing  dissension,  which  culminated  finally  in  armed 
violence  between  members  of  the  two  communities.  Beginning  in 


167 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


late  1963,  Turkish  Cypriots  withdrew  from  the  government,  and 
by  1965  the  Greek  Cypriots  were  in  full  charge. 

The  constitution  failed  to  allay  the  suspicion  and  distrust  that 
had  increasingly  divided  the  two  communities,  especially  since  the 
eruption  of  intercommunal  violence  in  1958.  Many  Greek  Cypriots 
viewed  the  Zurich- London  agreements  as  imposed  on  Cyprus  from 
outside  and  therefore  illegitimate,  Their  main  objection  to  the  agree- 
ments, however,  was  that  they  barred  the  unification,  or  enosis, 
of  Cyprus  with  Greece.  Greek  Cypriots  also  viewed  the  constitu- 
tional provisions  drafted  to  safeguard  minority  rights  as  granting 
the  Turkish  Cypriots  disproportionate  privileges  that  the  Turkish 
Cypriots  abused.  Therefore,  some  politically  active  elements  of  the 
Greek  Cypriot  community  were  motivated  to  undermine  the  con- 
stitution, or  at  least  press  for  modifications. 

Turkish  Cypriots,  some  of  whom  also  would  have  preferred 
different  arrangements  than  those  contained  in  the  independence 
documents,  such  as  taksim,  or  partition,  of  the  island  and  union 
of  its  two  parts  with  the  respective  motherlands  (so-called  double 
enosis),  nonetheless  maintained  that  the  separative  provisions  of 
the  constitution  were  essential  to  their  security  and  identity  as  a 
separate  national  community. 

A  number  of  quarrels  broke  out  over  the  balance  of  representa- 
tion of  the  two  communities  in  the  government  and  over  foreign 
policy,  taxation  by  communal  chambers,  and  other  matters.  The 
disputes  brought  the  government  to  a  virtual  standstill.  The  lead- 
ing cause  of  disagreements  was  the  ratio  of  Greek  Cypriots  to  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  in  the  civil  service.  Turkish  Cypriots  complained  that 
the  seventy-to-thirty  ratio  was  not  enforced.  Greek  Cypriots  felt 
that  the  provisions  discriminated  against  them  because  they  con- 
stituted almost  80  percent  of  the  population.  Another  major  point 
of  contention  concerned  the  composition  of  units  under  the  sixty- 
to-forty  ratio  decreed  for  the  Cypriot  army.  President  Makarios 
favored  complete  integration;  Vice  President  Fazil  Kiiguk  accepted 
a  mixed  force  at  the  battalion  level  but  insisted  on  segregated  com- 
panies. On  October  20,  1961,  Kuciik  used  his  constitutional  veto 
power  for  the  first  and  only  time  to  halt  the  development  of  a  fully 
integrated  force.  Makarios  then  stated  that  the  country  could  not 
afford  an  army  anyway.  Planning  and  development  of  the  nation- 
al army  ceased,  and  paramilitary  forces  arose  in  each  community. 

From  the  start,  Greek  Cypriots  had  been  uneasy  about  the  idea 
of  separate  municipalities,  which  Turkish  Cypriots  were  determined 
to  preserve.  The  Greek  Cypriot  Communal  Chamber  also  failed 
to  set  up  a  communal  court  system,  whereas  Turkish  Cypriot  com- 
munal courts  were  established. 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


Still  another  issue  that  provoked  strong  Greek  Cypriot  criticism 
was  the  right  of  the  veto  held  by  the  Turkish  Cypriot  vice  presi- 
dent and  what  amounted  to  final  veto  power  held  by  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  representatives  in  the  House  of  Representatives  with  respect 
to  laws  and  decisions  affecting  the  entire  population.  Turkish  Cypriot 
representatives  had  exercised  this  veto  power  with  respect  to  in- 
come tax  legislation,  seriously  limiting  government  revenues. 

In  late  1963,  after  three  years'  experience  of  unsteady  self- 
government,  Makarios  declared  that  certain  constitutional  provi- 
sions '  'threatened  to  paralyze  the  State  machinery.''  Revisions  were 
necessary,  he  said,  to  remove  obstacles  that  prevented  Greek  and 
Turkish  Cypriots  from  * '  cooperating  in  the  spirit  of  understand- 
ing and  friendship."  On  November  30,  1963,  Makarios  proposed 
thirteen  amendments  to  be  considered  immediately  by  the  leaders 
of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community. 

These  proposals,  outlined  in  a  presidential  memorandum  enti- 
tled ''Suggested  Measures  for  Facilitating  the  Smooth  Functioning 
of  the  State  and  for  the  Removal  of  Certain  Causes  of  Intercom- 
munal  Friction,"  reflected  all  the  constitutional  problems  that  had 
arisen.  The  president's  action  had  far-reaching  implications.  Most 
important,  it  deeply  eroded  Turkish  Cypriot  confidence  in  the 
fragile  power- sharing  arrangement.  The  proposals  also  automati- 
cally involved  Greece,  Turkey,  and  Britain,  which  as  signatories 
to  the  Treaties  of  Guarantee  and  Alliance  had  pledged  to  guaran- 
tee the  status  quo  under  the  constitution. 

The  proposed  amendments  would  have  eliminated  most  of  the 
special  rights  of  Turkish  Cypriots.  For  instance,  they  would  have 
abolished  many  of  the  provisions  for  separate  communal  institu- 
tions, substituting  an  integrated  state  with  limited  guarantees  for 
the  minority  community.  The  administration  of  justice  was  to  be 
unified.  Instead  of  having  separate  municipalities  in  the  five  larg- 
est towns,  a  provision  originally  called  for  in  the  constitution,  munic- 
ipalities were  to  be  unified.  The  veto  powers  of  the  president  and 
vice  president  were  to  be  abandoned,  as  were  the  provisions  for 
separate  parliamentary  majorities  in  certain  areas  of  legislation. 
Turkish  Cypriot  representation  in  the  civil  service  was  to  be  propor- 
tionate to  the  size  of  the  community.  By  way  of  compensation,  the 
Turkish  Cypriot  vice  president  was  to  be  given  the  right  to  depu- 
tize for  the  Greek  Cypriot  president  in  case  of  his  absence,  and 
the  vice  president  of  the  House  of  Representatives  was  to  be  act- 
ing president  of  the  body  during  the  temporary  absence  or  inca- 
pacity of  the  president. 

Kuciik  reportedly  had  agreed  to  consider  these  proposals.  The 
Turkish  government,  however,  rejected  the  entire  list.  In  any  case, 


169 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

intercommunal  fighting  erupted  in  December  1963,  and  in  March 
1964  the  UN  Security  Council  authorized  the  establishment  of  an 
international  peace-keeping  force  to  control  the  violence  and  act 
as  a  buffer  between  the  two  communities. 

1964-74  Situation:  Separate  Communal  Life 

By  the  spring  of  1964,  the  legislature  was  effectively  a  Greek 
Cypriot  body.  Turkish  Cypriot  representatives,  like  their  counter- 
parts in  the  civil  service,  feared  for  their  safety  in  the  Greek- 
dominated  parts  of  Nicosia  and  did  not  participate. 

Turkish  Cypriots  have  argued  that  what  they  considered  their 
involuntary  nonparticipation  rendered  any  acts  of  that  parliament 
unconstitutional.  Greek  Cypriots  have  maintained  that  the  insti- 
tutions continued  to  function  under  the  constitution,  despite  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  absence. 

In  1964  the  Greek  Cypriot-controlled  House  of  Representatives 
passed  a  number  of  important  pieces  of  legislation,  including  laws 
providing  for  the  establishment  of  an  armed  force,  the  National 
Guard,  and  for  the  restoration  to  the  government  of  its  rights  to 
impose  an  income  tax.  Other  laws  altered  the  government  struc- 
ture and  some  of  the  bicommunal  arrangements,  including  abolish- 
ing separate  electoral  rolls  for  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots, 
abolishing  the  Greek  Cypriot  Communal  Chamber,  and  amal- 
gamating the  Supreme  Constitutional  Court  and  the  High  Court 
of  Justice  into  the  Supreme  Court. 

Reaction  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  judiciary  to  this  judicial  change 
was  apparendy  not  unfavorable,  since  a  Turkish  Cypriot  was  named 
president  of  the  Supreme  Court.  He  assumed  his  post,  and  other 
Turkish  Cypriot  judges  returned  to  the  bench.  For  about  two  years, 
Turkish  Cypriot  judges  participated  in  the  revised  court  system, 
dealing  with  both  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots.  In  June  1966, 
however,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  judges  withdrew  from  the  system, 
claiming  harassment.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  leadership  directed  its 
community  not  to  use  the  courts  of  the  republic,  to  which,  however, 
they  continued  to  be  legally  entided,  according  to  the  Greek  Cypri- 
ots. In  turn,  the  Greek  Cypriot  government  considered  the  judicial 
processes  set  up  in  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  to  be  without 
legal  foundation. 

The  establishment  of  a  separate  Turkish  Cypriot  administration 
evolved  in  late  1967,  in  the  wake  of  renewed  intercommunal  hostil- 
ities (see  Intercommunal  Violence,  ch.  1).  Turkish  Cypriot  leaders, 
on  December  29,  1967,  announced  the  formation  of  a  "transitional 
administration"  to  oversee  the  affairs  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  com- 
munity "until  such  time  as  provisions  of  the  1960  constitution  have 


170 


Government  and  Politics 


been  fully  implemented."  The  administration  was  to  be  headed 
by  Kiiciik  as  president  and  Rauf  Denkta§  (the  former  president 
of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Communal  Chamber,  who  had  been  liv- 
ing in  exile  in  Turkey)  as  vice  president. 

The  fifteen  Turkish  Cypriot  former  members  of  the  republic's 
House  of  Representatives  joined  the  members  of  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot Communal  Chamber  to  constitute  a  Turkish  Cypriot  legisla- 
tive assembly.  Nine  of  the  members  were  to  function  as  an  executive 
council  to  carry  out  ministerial  duties.  President  Makarios  declared 
the  administration  illegal  and  its  actions  devoid  of  any  legal  effect. 

On  February  25,  1968,  Greek  Cypriots  reelected  Makarios  to 
office,  in  the  first  presidential  election  since  1960,  by  an  overwhelm- 
ing majority.  Running  against  a  single  opponent  campaigning  for 
enosis,  Makarios  won  about  96  percent  of  the  votes  cast. 

Intercommunal  talks  for  a  solution  to  the  constitutional  crisis 
began  on  June  24,  1968,  and  reached  a  deadlock  on  September 
20,  1971.  Talks  resumed  in  July  1972,  in  the  presence  of  UN  Secre- 
tary General  Kurt  Waldheim  and  one  constitutional  adviser  each 
from  Greece  and  Turkey.  Both  sides  realized  that  the  basic  arti- 
cles of  the  constitution,  intended  to  balance  the  rights  and  interests 
of  both  communities,  had  become  moot  and  that  new  constitutional 
arrangements  had  to  be  found. 

At  the  same  time,  extralegal  political  activities  were  proliferat- 
ing, some  based  on  preindependence  clandestine  movements.  The 
emergence  of  these  groups,  namely,  the  National  Organization  of 
Cypriot  Fighters  B  (Ethniki  Organosis  Kyprion  Agoniston  B — 
EOKA  B)  and  its  Turkish  Cypriot  response,  the  Turkish  Resistance 
Organization  (Turk  Mukavemet  Tesjrilati — TMT),  was  eroding 
the  authority  of  conventional  politicians.  There  were  mounting  calls 
for  enosis  from  forces  no  longer  supportive  of  Makarios,  notably 
the  National  Guard,  and  there  was  a  radical  Turkish  Cypriot  reac- 
tion (see  Conflict  Within  the  Greek  Cypriot  Community,  1967-74, 
ch.  5). 

The  1974  Crisis  and  Division  of  the  Island 

Pressures  mounting  within  the  Cypriot  communities  and  within 
the  military  junta  ruling  Greece  converged  in  the  summer  of  1974. 
Greek  military  officials,  angered  by  Makarios' s  independence  from 
Greece  and  his  policy  of  nonalignment,  backed  a  coup  d'etat  by 
Greek  Cypriot  National  Guard  officers  intent  on  enosis.  The  coup 
imposed  Nicos  Sampson  as  provisional  president. 

The  Turkish  response  was  swift.  On  July  20,  Turkish  troops 
reached  the  island  and  established  a  beachhead  in  the  north.  A 
ceasefire  was  reached  two  days  later,  with  the  North  Atiantic  Treaty 


171 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Organization  (NATO)  allies  of  Greece  and  Turkey  working  ur- 
gently to  avoid  an  intra- alliance  confrontation.  Peace  talks  were 
hastily  convened  in  Geneva,  but  those  talks  did  not  satisfy  Turk- 
ish concerns.  On  August  14,  the  Turks  began  a  second  offensive 
that  resulted  in  their  control  of  over  36  percent  of  the  island.  The 
ceasefire  lines  achieved  after  the  extension  of  Turkish  control  formed 
the  basis  for  the  buffer  zone  manned  by  the  United  Nations  Peace- 
keeping Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  which  has  been  in  place 
since  1964  (see  United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus, 
ch.  5). 

The  events  of  1974  dramatically  altered  the  internal  balance  of 
power  between  the  two  Cypriot  communities  and  coupled  their 
prevailing  political  and  institutional  separation  with  stark  physi- 
cal and  geographical  separation.  In  a  grim  historical  echo  of  the 
widely  praised  1930  Greek-Turkish  exchange-of-population  agree- 
ments, roughly  a  third  of  each  community,  displaced  by  the  war, 
was  transferred  to  the  side  of  the  island  that  its  community  con- 
trolled. As  a  consequence,  in  1990  nearly  a  third  of  the  people  of 
Cyprus  lived  outside  their  birthplaces  or  places  of  residence  in  1974. 

Institutionally,  Turkish  Cypriots  simply  consolidated  what  had 
been  a  separate  administration  run  out  of  Turkish  Cypriot  enclaves 
across  the  island  into  the  northern  third,  made  secure  by  Turkish 
troops.  That  presence  altered  the  political  life  of  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots, however.  Many  decisions  affecting  the  life  of  the  community 
had  a  security  dimension,  and  the  economy  of  the  small  entity  has 
been  dependent  on  Turkish  subsidies  and  trade.  Thus,  the  extent 
of  the  real  autonomy  of  Turkish  Cypriot  authorities  from  their 
mainland  protectors  and  benefactors  was  the  subject  of  continued 
speculation  and  uncertainty. 

Search  for  a  New  Political  Formula 

Clearly,  the  debate  over  government  and  politics  on  the  island 
of  Cyprus  is  more  fundamental  than  in  many  other  countries.  The 
lack  of  consensus  between  the  two  major  communities  over  how 
to  govern  and  administer  the  island  shapes  daily  life  in  each  com- 
munity and  dominates  the  island's  relations  with  the  outside  world. 
At  issue  is  whether  the  island  should  have  one  government  or  two, 
whether  the  two  communities  in  fact  constitute  two  distinct  politi- 
cal entities  and  '  'nations, ' '  and  whether  some  form  of  cooperation 
and  power  sharing  between  the  two  communities  is  possible. 

After  1974,  the  debate  over  these  issues  resumed,  mainly  in  a 
formal  process  under  the  auspices  of  the  UN  secretary  general.  Po- 
litical leaders  in  each  community  asserted  that  there  was  general 
agreement  on  how  to  proceed  with  the  settlement  negotiations,  and 


172 


The  Archbishopric  in  Nicosia  as  it  appeared 
after  the  violent  summer  of  1974 
The  Archbishopric  after  its  restoration,  with  a  statue  of  Archbishop 
Markarios  III,  president  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  1960-77 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


173 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

that  both  sides  had  minimum  requirements  that  had  to  be  recog- 
nized. These  mainstream  positions  fell  along  a  continuum  from 
a  concept  of  federalism,  in  which  major  powers  and  functions  would 
be  retained  at  the  federal  level  and  residual  powers  at  the  level  of 
the  province  or  state,  to  something  more  like  confederalism,  with 
emphasis  placed  on  maximum  authority  in  the  constituent  states 
and  more  symbolic  power  for  the  overarching  apparatus. 

The  interests  of  the  two  communities  diverged  over  this  range, 
with  Greek  Cypriots  seeking  to  maximize  prospects  for  functional 
reunification  of  the  island  and  internal  mobility  of  people  and  goods, 
and  Turkish  Cypriots  arguing  that  separation  of  the  communities 
and  their  authority  best  served  their  security  interests.  As  a  conse- 
quence, the  two  sides  did  not  share  the  same  sense  of  urgency  about 
settlement.  Greek  Cypriots  believed  that  time  was  not  on  their  side, 
and  that  continued  division  of  the  island  favored  the  separation 
preferred  by  Turkish  Cypriots.  Greek  Cypriots  thus  felt  a  greater 
sense  of  urgency  than  Turkish  Cypriots,  who  were  more  satisfied 
with  the  status  quo. 

At  the  same  time,  dissident  voices,  with  litde  political  significance, 
argued  for  options  other  than  the  federal  solution,  including  return- 
ing to  preindependence  proposals  such  as  enosis,  possibly  with  cer- 
tain rights  provided  to  Turkey,  or  double  enosis,  in  which  the  two 
parts  of  the  divided  island  would  become  states  or  provinces  of  their 
respective  motherlands. 

As  of  1990,  the  governments  of  the  Greek  Cypriots  and  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  and  the  world  community  had  embraced  the  idea  that 
settlement  of  the  Cyprus  question  was  possible  through  negotia- 
tions aiming  to  reestablish  a  single  government,  bizonal  with  respect 
to  territory  and  bicommunal  with  respect  to  constitutional  aspects. 
This  process  continued  to  dominate  national  life  and  political  de- 
bate in  both  communities. 

Milestones  in  the  United  Nations  Settlement  Process 

In  the  immediate  aftermath  of  the  1974  crisis,  acting  Greek 
Cypriot  president  Glafkos  Clerides  met  with  Rauf  Denkta§  in  Sep- 
tember. These  intercommunal  talks  were  initially  limited  to  hu- 
manitarian issues,  such  as  the  exchange  of  population  between  the 
two  sides  of  the  island.  Later,  at  the  urging  of  the  United  States, 
the  two  men,  with  Clerides  the  intercommunal  negotiator  in  a  re- 
stored Makarios  government,  resumed  a  substantive  agenda  and 
met  in  Vienna  in  January  1975.  They  both  declared  their  support 
for  the  principle  of  an  independent,  nonaligned,  and  demilitarized 
Cyprus.  Beyond  these  broad  concepts,  however,  there  were  seri- 
ous differences  over  the  form  of  government,  the  size  of  the  area 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


to  be  retained  by  Turkish  Cypriots,  the  return  of  refugees  and  com- 
pensation for  property  losses,  and  the  timing  of  the  withdrawal  of 
Turkish  troops. 

By  February  1976,  the  two  sides,  according  to  statements,  had 
discussed  territorial  and  constitutional  issues  and  had  agreed  to  ex- 
change written  proposals  before  May.  Before  the  May  meeting, 
however,  difficulties  arose  within  the  Greek  Cypriot  camp,  der- 
ides resigned  as  negotiator  because  of  differences  of  view  with 
Makarios  and  allegations  that  he  was  willing  to  accept  a  bizonal 
federation,  an  idea  that  Makarios  opposed  at  the  time. 

Makarios  appointed  Tassos  Papadopoulos,  deputy  president  of 
the  House  of  Representatives,  to  replace  Clerides.  Denkta§,  who 
declined  to  deal  face  to  face  with  Papadopoulos  because  he  had  been 
an  active  member  of  the  EOKA,  appointed  Umit  Suleyman  Onan 
to  serve  as  negotiator. 

1977  Makarios -Denktas  Accords 

After  intensive  efforts  by  Waldheim,  Makarios  and  Denkta§  met 
on  January  27,  1977,  the  first  meeting  between  the  two  men  since 
the  Turkish  Cypriots  had  withdrawn  from  the  government  of  the 
republic  in  1964.  By  then  Makarios  was  leaning  toward  negotia- 
tion on  the  basis  of  a  bizonal  federation,  provided  that  there  be 
some  Turkish  Cypriot  territorial  concessions.  He  continued  to  in- 
sist on  a  strong  central  government  and  freedom  of  movement  for 
all  Cypriots.  He  demanded  80  percent  of  the  territory,  proportionate 
to  the  size  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  population,  but  indicated  that  he 
might  accept  75  percent  if  it  included  Varosha,  the  formerly  prosper- 
ous tourist  area  of  Famagusta  to  which  35,000  Greek  Cypriots  want- 
ed to  return.  Denktas.  apparently  indicated  readiness  to  consider 
about  68  percent. 

On  February  12,  1977,  the  two  men  met  and  agreed  on  four 
guidelines.  The  first  was  that  Cyprus  would  be  an  independent, 
nonaligned,  bicommunal  federal  republic.  Second,  the  territory  un- 
der the  administration  of  each  community  was  to  be  discussed  in 
light  of  economic  viability,  productivity,  and  property  rights.  Third, 
questions  of  principle  such  as  freedom  of  movement  and  setdement, 
rights  of  ownership,  and  certain  special  matters  were  to  be  open 
for  discussion,  taking  into  consideration  the  fundamental  decision 
for  a  bicommunal  federal  system  and  certain  practical  difficulties. 
Finally,  the  powers  and  functions  of  a  central  government  would 
be  such  as  to  safeguard  the  unity  of  the  country. 

This  achievement  raised  hopes  among  Cyprus 's  foreign  friends 
that  a  setdement  could  be  reached.  These  hopes  were  dashed 
when  President  Makarios,  the  central  figure  in  the  Greek  Cypriot 


175 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


community,  died  of  a  heart  attack  in  August  1977.  Spyros  Kypri- 
anou, his  successor,  pledged  to  adhere  to  positions  he  believed 
Makarios  would  have  taken. 

Over  time,  it  became  clear  that  Kyprianou  enjoyed  less  politi- 
cal room  to  maneuver  than  his  predecessor,  partly  because  of  the 
growing  political  strength  of  the  refugees  and  displaced  persons. 
Kyprianou  found  in  this  group  a  ready-made  constituency,  and 
he  embraced  their  advocacy  of  their  right  to  return  to  homes  and 
property  and  their  call  for  a  permeable  border  and  unimpeded  free 
movement  and  unrestricted  settlement.  This  position  sharpened 
differences  with  the  Turkish  Cypriot  advocacy  of  a  tightly  controlled 
border  and  guarantees  that  the  ethnic  balance  established  by  the 
de  facto  partition  would  remain  undisturbed. 

In  April  1978,  a  new  set  of  Turkish  Cypriot  proposals  was  made 
public,  but  was  quickly  rejected  by  the  Greek  Cypriot  negotiator, 
Papadopoulos,  who  objected  to  both  the  constitutional  and  the  ter- 
ritorial aspects  of  the  proposals.  Kyprianou  dismissed  Papadopoulos 
in  June  over  disagreements. 

Later  in  1978,  external  powers  tried  their  hand  at  a  Cyprus 
proposal.  President  Jimmy  Carter  had  convinced  a  slim  majority 
in  the  United  States  Congress  to  lift  the  arms  embargo  imposed 
against  Turkey  because  of  its  intervention  on  Cyprus;  Carter 
pledged  to  renew  diplomatic  efforts  to  resolve  the  Cyprus  problem. 
The  United  States  then  worked  with  Britain  and  Canada  to  launch 
a  new  settlement  plan.  The  twelve-point  plan  (often  called  the  ABC 
plan  because  of  its  American,  British,  and  Canadian  sponsorship) 
proposed  a  biregional,  independent  federal  republic.  The  state's 
constitutional  structure  would  conform  to  the  Makarios-Denkta§ 
guidelines  of  February  1977,  as  well  as  to  pertinent  clauses  of  the 
1960  constitution.  There  would  be  two  constituent  regions.  The 
federal  government  would  be  responsible  for  foreign  affairs,  defense, 
currency  and  central  banking,  trade,  communications,  federal 
finance,  customs,  immigration  and  emigration,  and  civil  aviation. 
Residual  functions  would  rest  with  the  two  regions.  A  bicameral 
legislature  would  be  established,  with  the  upper  chamber  evenly 
divided  between  the  two  communities  and  the  lower  one  divided 
on  a  population-ratio  basis.  The  Council  of  Ministers  would  be 
jointly  selected  by  the  president  and  vice  president,  one  of  whom 
would  be  a  Greek  Cypriot  and  the  other  a  Turkish  Cypriot.  On 
territorial  issues,  the  plan  envisioned  significant  Turkish  Cypriot 
geographic  concessions,  although  the  size  and  locale  of  the  two 
regions  would  take  into  account  factors  such  as  economic  viability, 
security,  population  distribution,  and  history.  The  plan  addressed 
the  refugee  issue  and  called  for  essentially  a  demilitarized  republic 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


and  withdrawal  of  all  foreign  forces  except  for  an  agreed-upon  con- 
tingent. 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus  government  objected  to  many  points  in 
the  plan,  largely  because  it  preempted  various  positions  of  the  two 
sides.  The  Greek  Cypriot  foreign  minister  said  he  would  have 
preferred  an  agenda  that  did  not  go  into  so  much  detail.  Other 
Greek  Cypriot  forces,  including  the  church  and  some  political  par- 
ties, also  opposed  the  plan.  In  the  Greek  community,  only  Glafkos 
Clerides  urged  its  acceptance  as  a  basis  for  talks.  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots  also  formally  rejected  the  plan  as  an  overall  settlement  package. 

However,  the  ABC  plan  stimulated  further  efforts  toward  a  set- 
tlement. The  UN  Security  Council  acted  quickly  to  resume  inter- 
communal  talks,  on  the  basis  of  an  agenda  that  combined  the 
Makarios-Denkta§  guidelines  with  some  aspects  of  the  allied  plan. 

Two  other  effects  of  the  American  initiative  should  be  noted. 
The  plan  was  the  last  American-drafted  proposal  for  Cyprus  and 
convinced  some  in  the  Western  policy  community  that  even  a  fair- 
minded  effort  had  little  chance  of  winning  Cypriot  acceptance.  Sec- 
ond, it  reinforced  Cypriot  anxiety  about  having  solutions  imposed 
from  outside.  By  the  early  1990s,  many  features  of  the  initiative 
remained  part  of  the  UN-brokered  negotiating  effort,  but  Cypriots 
remained  committed  to  writing  their  own  plan. 

1979  Kyprianou-Denkta§  Communique 

In  early  1979,  President  Kyprianou  was  persuaded  by  his  polit- 
ical advisers  to  resume  talks  with  Denkta§,  and  Javier  Perez  de  Cue- 
llar,  then  undersecretary  general  of  the  UN,  called  the  two  to  a 
meeting  in  Nicosia  in  June.  The  two  intercommunal  negotiators, 
Minister  to  the  President  George  Ioannides  for  the  Greek  Cypri- 
ots and  Umit  Suleyman  Onan  for  the  Turkish  Cypriots,  pursued 
talks  aiming  at  a  communique  stating  the  broad  agenda  for  fur- 
ther talks.  This  process  stalled  temporarily  when  Greek  Cypriots 
sought  to  give  the  Varosha  issue  priority  above  all  other  issues. 
On  May  18  and  19,  the  two  leaders  held  a  second  summit  that 
led  to  the  successful  conclusion  of  a  ten-point  agreement  that  called 
for  a  resumption  of  talks  on  all  territorial  and  constitutional  issues; 
placed  priority  on  reaching  agreement  on  the  resettlement  of 
Varosha;  stated  the  commitment  of  the  parties  to  abstain  from  ac- 
tions that  could  jeopardize  the  talks;  and  envisaged  the  demilitari- 
zation of  Cyprus.  The  agreement  also  repeated  past  statements 
about  guarantees  against  union  with  any  other  country,  partition, 
or  secession.  The  ten  points  were  largely  a  tactical  means  to  se- 
cure further  negotiations  and  did  not  resolve  any  substantive  issues. 


177 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


One  more  meeting  was  held  in  June  1979,  but  the  talks  were  then 
suspended  until  August  1980. 

The  UN-established  common  ground  on  which  the  talks  resumed 
was  a  four-part  agenda  addressing,  on  a  rotating  basis,  the  reset- 
tlement of  Varosha  under  UN  auspices,  initial  practical  measures 
to  promote  good  will,  constitutional  issues,  and  territorial  issues. 
The  talks,  conducted  in  Cyprus  under  the  chairmanship  of  the  UN 
secretary  general's  Special  Representative  on  Cyprus,  Ambassador 
Hugo  Gobbi,  continued  without  a  major  breakthrough  and  were 
temporarily  suspended  for  the  spring  1981  parliamentary  elections 
on  both  sides  of  the  island.  In  August  and  October  1981,  the  two 
sides  made  substantive  presentations,  which  were  welcomed  as  signs 
of  commitment  to  compromise,  but  which  also  revealed  the  seri- 
ous gap  in  the  two  sides'  concepts  of  a  solution. 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  proposal,  submitted  in  August  1981 ,  named 
four  fundamental  principles:  a  bicommunal  and  bizonal  federal 
republic  shall  be  established,  but  the  two  federated  states  will  not 
form  a  unitary  state;  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  will  be  regard- 
ed as  an  equal  cofounder  with  the  Greek  Cypriot  community,  and 
all  government  institutions  will  be  staffed  on  a  fifty-fifty  ratio;  the 
federal  or  central  government  will  not  be  so  strong  as  to  imperil 
the  independence  of  its  component  states;  and  the  three  freedoms 
of  movement,  property,  and  settlement  will  be  restricted  as  set  out 
by  the  1977  guidelines.  The  proposal  identified  as  '  'federal  mat- 
ters" six  functions,  including  foreign  affairs;  foreign  financial  af- 
fairs; tourism  and  information;  posts  and  telecommunications; 
federal  health  and  veterinarian  services;  and  standards  of  weights 
and  measures,  patents,  copyrights,  and  trademarks.  The  Turkish 
Cypriots  also  submitted  two  maps,  one  defining  a  proposed  bound- 
ary line  between  the  two  federated  states  and  one  focused  on 
Varosha  in  particular.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  proposal  treated  the 
federal  concept  narrowly,  limiting  federal  authority. 

The  Greek  Cypriots  submitted  their  proposal  on  October  1 ,  1981 . 
It  contrasted  sharply  with  the  Turkish  Cypriot  proposal,  with  a 
heavy  emphasis  on  the  unity  of  the  island  and  the  powers  of  the 
federal  republic.  The  plan's  six  principles  included  the  indivisibil- 
ity of  the  territory  of  the  federal  republic;  the  federal  republic  as 
sole  subject  of  international  law,  to  the  exclusion  of  the  provinces; 
and  the  use  of  the  federal  legislative  and  executive  powers  to  en- 
sure Cyprus 's  economic  reintegration.  The  Turkish  Cypriots  con- 
sidered this  proposal  merely  an  elaboration  of  a  1977  Greek  Cypriot 
plan. 

Despite  the  failure  to  make  headway  on  the  core  political  issues, 
this  phase  had  one  notable  achievement:  the  agreement  on  terms 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


of  reference  for  a  Committee  on  Missing  Persons,  consisting  of 
representatives  of  the  two  communities  and  an  international  par- 
ticipant designated  by  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross.  The  committee's  first  meeting  was  held  on  July  14,  1981. 
The  committee  met  sporadically  throughout  the  1980s,  and  new 
proposals  to  invigorate  its  work  were  discussed  in  early  1990.  The 
work  of  the  committee  was  hampered  by  sensitivity  about  exchanges 
of  dossiers  and  information.  Sensitive  areas  included  security  mat- 
ters and  religious  questions,  such  as  whether  graves  should  be  dis- 
turbed. 

By  late  1981 ,  UN  officials  and  other  supporters  of  the  setdement 
process  had  concluded  that  the  talks  needed  new  stimulus.  Secre- 
tary General  Waldheim  issued  an  evaluation  of  the  negotiations 
in  November,  in  what  he  called  a  "determined  effort  to  lend  struc- 
ture and  substance"  to  the  negotiating  process.  The  evaluation  iden- 
tified major  points  of  "coincidence  and  equidistance"  in  the 
positions  held  by  the  two  sides  and  proposed  that  the  contemplat- 
ed republic's  executive  authority  be  exercised  by  a  federal  council 
having  six  ministerial  functions,  corresponding  roughly  to  the  nar- 
row Turkish  Cypriot  concept.  Waldheim  also  suggested  a  bicameral 
legislature,  provincial  chambers,  and  a  territorial  compromise  in 
which  the  Greek  Cypriot  side  would  administer  at  least  70  percent 
of  the  island. 

The  setdement  process  in  the  early  1980s  was  affected  by  the 
need  for  President  Kyprianou  to  establish  his  credibility  and  demon- 
strate his  loyalty  to  the  national  cause  after  the  death  of  the  charis- 
matic Makarios.  To  many  observers,  it  appeared  that  Kyprianou 
had  less  room  for  maneuver  and  was  less  inclined,  by  political 
preference  or  capability,  to  put  forth  new  strategic  positions.  The 
election  of  a  socialist  government  in  Athens  in  October  1981  may 
also  have  affected  the  attitudes  of  the  parties;  Greek  Cypriots  wel- 
comed Greek  prime  minister  Andreas  Papandreou's  desire  to  "in- 
ternationalize" the  Cyprus  problem,  which  effectively  gave  Greek 
Cypriots  some  breathing  room  in  the  intercommunal  process. 
Meanwhile,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  leaders  were  developing  new  for- 
mulas and  concepts  of  their  own  and  generally  disapproved  of  ef- 
forts to  internationalize  the  issue. 

On  November  15,  1983,  after  months  of  speculation,  Rauf  Denk- 
ta§  declared  Turkish  Cypriot  statehood,  on  the  basis  of  the  universal 
right  to  self-determination.  His  proclamation,  which  cited  the  Unit- 
ed States  Declaration  of  Independence,  declared  the  establishment 
of  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC").  The 
move  was  not  intended  to  block  progress  toward  creating  a  federal 
republic,  Denkta§  said.  Rather,  the  assertion  of  the  political  identity 


179 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

and  equality  of  the  Turkish  Cypriots  would,  in  his  view,  enhance 
prospects  for  a  new  relationship  between  the  two  sides  of  the  is- 
land. He  also  pledged  that  the  new  state  would  not  join  any  other 
state,  meaning  Turkey. 

The  move  was  widely  condemned  by  Western  powers  and  the 
UN.  The  secretary  general  considered  the  declaration  contrary  to 
past  Security  Council  resolutions  and  at  odds  with  the  high-level 
agreements  of  1977  and  1979.  The  United  States  urged  nonrecog- 
nition  of  the  entity  and  voted  for  a  nearly  unanimous  Security  Coun- 
cil resolution  (541)  that  called  for  reversal  of  the  declaration.  (Jordan 
voted  no;  Pakistan  abstained.) 

1984  Proximity  Talks 

The  statehood  declaration  did  not  end  the  negotiation  process. 
In  August  1984,  the  two  sides  met  UN  Secretary  General  Perez 
de  Cuellar  in  Vienna.  They  agreed  to  proximity  talks,  that  is,  talks 
in  which  the  parties  do  not  meet  direcdy,  but  communicate  through 
an  intermediary.  These  talks  began  in  New  York  in  September. 
After  three  months,  Perez  de  Cuellar  determined  that  the  differ- 
ences between  the  two  sides  had  narrowed  enough  to  allow  for  a 
direct  summit  between  the  two  leaders.  That  meeting  took  place 
in  New  York  on  January  17,  1985. 

The  1985  summit  was  in  some  ways  a  watershed  in  Cypriot  set- 
dement  efforts  because  it  altered,  at  least  temporarily,  external  ob- 
servers' perceptions  of  the  sources  of  the  stalemate,  and  because 
it  represented  the  beginning  of  a  phase  of  settlement  efforts.  But 
that  phase  would  come  to  an  end  in  early  1990. 

1985-86  Draft  Framework  Exercise 

At  the  January  1985  summit,  UN  officials  presented  a  draft  frame- 
work agreement  for  the  establishment  of  a  bizonal,  bicommunal  fed- 
eral republic.  The  parties,  according  to  many  accounts,  had  been 
briefed  on  its  contents  but  not  directly  involved  in  its  drafting.  Denk- 
ta§  indicated  his  willingness  to  sign  the  draft,  on  the  understand- 
ing that  details  would  be  worked  out  in  separate  talks.  However, 
Kyprianou  declined  to  sign,  saying  he  considered  the  draft  a  basis 
for  negotiations  but  that  such  a  commitment  was  premature. 

The  collapse  of  the  summit  redounded  to  Turkish  Cypriot  favor, 
in  the  reactions  of  the  news  media  and  Cyprus' s  Western  friends. 
By  1990,  however,  Turkish  Cypriots  referred  to  the  1985  summit 
as  a  regrettable  Turkish  Cypriot  acquiescence  to  external  pressure, 
from  Turkey  and  the  United  States  in  particular. 

The  UN  worked  intensively  with  the  two  parties  after  the  sum- 
mit, on  the  assumption  that  a  tactical  misstep  need  not  undermine 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


the  considerable  achievement  of  drafting  an  oudine  reflecting  broad 
areas  of  agreement.  Yet  UN  efforts  in  the  months  that  followed 
showed  the  near- impossibility  of  bridging  the  gaps;  drafts  proved 
acceptable  to  one  side  or  the  other,  but  never  both.  In  April  1985, 
a  draft  framework  agreement  won  acceptance  by  Greek  Cypriots 
and  was  rejected  by  the  Turkish  Gypriot  side.  After  extensive  con- 
sultations, a  new  draft  was  promulgated;  it  was  embraced  by  the 
Turkish  Cypriots  and  rejected  by  the  Greek  Cypriots. 

1988-90  Vassiliou-Denktas  Meetings 

The  politics  of  the  settlement  process  appeared  to  change  sig- 
nificantly when  Greek  Cypriots  elected  George  Vassiliou  president 
in  February  1988.  Vassiliou  was  a  successful  businessman  with  no 
important  political  party  base  (although  his  parents  were  found- 
ing members  of  the  island's  communist  party,  the  Progressive  Party 
of  the  Working  People  (Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou 
Laou — AKEL).  He  campaigned  on  a  pledge  to  solve  the  Cyprus 
problem  with  new  vigor  and  creativity.  His  upset  victory  over 
Spyros  Kyprianou  seemed  to  indicate  popular  support  for  a  new 
approach  and  for  more  rapid  progress  on  a  settlement.  The  UN 
and  Cyprus 's  Western  partners  welcomed  Vassiliou 's  election  and 
his  statements  about  the  settlement  process. 

The  UN  arranged  for  informal  meetings  between  Vassiliou  and 
Denkta§  at  the  Nicosia  home  of  the  UN  special  representative,  Oscar 
Camillion.  The  first  round  of  these  meetings  took  place  between 
August  and  November  1988.  A  second  round  occurred  between 
December  1988  and  April  1989,  but  the  talks  faltered  when  the 
two  sides  began  submitting  papers  and  drafts  that  began  to  dominate 
the  discussions.  These  two  rounds  raised  new  concerns  that  the 
UN  had  lost  control  of  the  process,  and  that  reaching  agreement 
on  a  fixed  agenda  or  schedule  might  prove  difficult. 

In  May  1989,  a  more  formal  process  began,  after  Secretary 
General  Perez  de  Cuellar  assigned  his  two  aides,  Camillion  and 
Gustave  Feissel,  to  meet  separately  and  jointly  with  the  parties  to 
draft  an  outline,  which  could  be  based  on  an  "ideas  paper"  that 
the  UN  had  circulated  on  a  noncommittal  basis  to  the  parties.  This 
third  round  was  stalled  for  the  second  half  of  1989,  over  procedural 
and  substantive  difficulties,  with  the  Turkish  Cypriots'  objecting 
to  the  "ideas  paper. ' '  The  parties  met  in  New  York  with  the  secre- 
tary general  to  report  on  their  progress  in  February  and  March 
1990. 

The  secretary  general  reported  that  the  gap  between  the  two  sides 
remained  wide  and  that  he  was  not  convinced  there  was  an  agreed- 
upon  basis  on  which  to  proceed.  He  turned  to  the  Security  Council 


181 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

for  clarification  of  his  "good  offices"  mission;  clarification  was  given 
in  Resolution  649,  which  was  passed  unanimously  on  March  13. 

The  two  sides  separately  indicated  satisfaction  with  the  UN  reso- 
lution. Greek  Cypriots  emphasized  the  active  role  proposed  for  the 
UN,  including  the  right  to  make  suggestions,  and  Turkish  Cypriots 
were  pleased  with  the  resolution's  references  to  the  separate  status 
of  the  two  communities  and  to  bizonality  as  an  enshrined  princi- 
ple in  a  prospective  settlement. 

This  eighteen-month  round  of  setdement  efforts  had  begun  hope- 
fully. A  period  of  creative  tension  and  groping  to  create  new  un- 
derstandings occurred  in  mid- 1989,  when  Vassiliou  and  his  advisers 
privately  and  informally  offered  important  concessions  to  the  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  side.  That  is,  none  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  proposals  or 
suggestions  were  binding  or  formally  entrenched  in  official  docu- 
ments, but  were  offered  discreedy  as  the  basis  for  discussion.  These 
concessions  included  a  willingness  to  phase  in  the  three  freedoms, 
beginning  with  freedom  of  movement  and  holding  freedom  of  set- 
tlement and  property  in  abeyance.  New  thinking  and  flexibility 
on  the  territorial  issue  were  displayed,  with  a  range  of  options 
presented  to  the  Turkish  Cypriot  side.  The  options  included  a 
smaller  but  nearly  exclusively  Turkish  Cypriot  zone  as  a  substi- 
tute for  various  larger  but  more  demographically  mixed  zones. 
Greek  Cypriots  tried  to  link  the  size  of  the  territorial  swap  with 
the  degree  of  communal  purity.  They  were  more  flexible  than  in 
the  past  on  the  issue  of  the  presidency,  offering  alternatives  such 
as  rotating  the  position  between  the  two  communities  or  having 
joint  elections,  with  Turkish  Cypriot  votes  weighted.  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots found  themselves  challenged  by  a  more  flexible  interlocutor  and 
reacted  with  caution,  expressing  new  legal  reservations  about  the 
proposals.  At  that  point,  between  October  1989  and  February  1990, 
the  Greek  Cypriot  side  seemed  to  withdraw  some  of  its  new  ideas, 
and  the  president  found  his  freedom  of  maneuver  limited  by  new 
domestic  resistance  to  further  concessions. 

When  the  talks  collapsed  in  early  1990,  both  sides  appeared  to 
be  turning  away  from  the  UN  process.  The  two  governments 
seemed  able  to  withstand  domestic  criticism  of  the  talks;  opposi- 
tion complaints  on  both  sides  appeared  to  focus  on  tactics  and  did 
not  challenge  the  fundamental  government  positions.  Both  lead- 
ers appeared  to  be  preparing  to  defend  their  positions  to  outside 
patrons  and  partners.  Greek  Cypriots  mounted  a  renewed  effort 
to  win  international  support  for  their  position  and  stressed  the  need 
for  international  pressure  on  Turkey  if  they  were  to  win  conces- 
sions from  the  Turkish  Cypriots.  For  Turkish  Cypriots,  the  end 
of  the  talks  heralded  a  period  of  active  domestic  politics.  A  push 


182 


Turkish  Cypriot  leader  Rauf  Denktas  (left)  and  Republic  of  Cyprus 
President  George  Vassiliou  (right)  meeting  at  the  intercommunal 
talks  sponsored  by  the  United  Nations 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 


183 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

for  new  diplomatic  recognition  of  the  "TRNC"  was  under  con- 
sideration (see  Foreign  Policy,  this  ch.). 

Prospects  for  Creation  of  a  Federal  Republic  of  Cyprus 

The  second  half  of  1990  saw  little  action  in  Cyprus  settlement 
efforts,  in  large  measure  because  of  the  Iraq- Kuwait  crisis  and  the 
demands  it  placed  on  the  UN  and  on  much  of  the  world  commu- 
nity. Some  in  Cyprus  found  parallels  between  the  Gulf  situation 
and  Cyprus  and  hoped  that  the  resolution  of  the  Gulf  crisis  would 
renew  international  interest  in  a  Cyprus  setdement.  Greek  Cypri- 
ots  saw  in  the  world  condemnation  of  Iraq's  invasion  of  Kuwait 
possible  new  interest  in  pressing  for  removal  of  Turkish  troops  from 
Cyprus  and  in  using  UN  resolutions  more  effectively  to  resolve 
outstanding  disputes.  Greek  Cypriots  also  saw  the  continued  with- 
drawal of  Soviet  troops  from  Eastern  Europe  as  further  impetus 
to  bring  Cyprus  into  conformity  with  these  regional  and  world 
trends.  At  the  same  time,  Turkey's  pivotal  role  in  the  Gulf  crisis, 
including  its  decision  to  close  Iraq's  oil  pipeline  and  its  importance  as 
a  staging  area  for  Kurdish  refugee  relief,  appeared  to  deepen  some 
Western  countries'  support  for  Turkey,  and  the  prospect  for 
new  pressures  on  Turkey  were  uncertain.  Turkish  President  Turgut 
Ozal  did  cite  willingness  to  work  on  Cyprus  among  the  features  of 
a  dynamic  Turkish  foreign  policy  he  envisioned  in  the  post-Gulf 
crisis  period. 

At  the  end  of  1990,  the  two  sides  had  not  disavowed  their  interest 
in  UN  efforts  and  were  aware  of  Perez  de  Cuellar's  strong  personal 
interest  in  seeing  progress  on  Cyprus  before  his  retirement  as  secre- 
tary general  in  late  1991 .  Although  no  formal  meetings  between  the 
two  Cypriot  leaders  occurred,  there  was  a  slight  increase  in  ministerial 
and  nongovernment  contacts  between  the  two  communities,  which 
many  considered  helpful  to  confidence  building.  Continued  work 
by  the  United  States  Special  Cyprus  Coordinator,  Nelson  Ledsky, 
and  by  UN  officials  kept  the  two  communities  engaged  in  thinking 
about  setdement  prospects,  with  the  expectation  that  1991  would 
be  a  more  active  year. 

Politics  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus 

Political  Institutions 

In  1990  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  operated  under  the  terms  of  the 
1960  constitution  as  amended  in  1964.  It  consisted  of  three  indepen- 
dent branches:  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial.  The  republic's 
president,  George  Vassiliou,  was  head  of  state  and  presided  over 
a  council  of  eleven  ministers. 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


Presidential  authority  remained  as  outlined  in  the  constitution. 
Cabinet  portfolios  included  agriculture  and  natural  resources,  com- 
merce and  industry,  communications  and  works,  defense,  educa- 
tion, finance,  foreign  affairs,  health,  interior,  justice,  and  labor 
and  social  insurance.  Policy  making  was  in  the  hands  of  adminis- 
trative directors  who  were  appointed  civil  servants  with  lifelong 
tenure.  In  an  effort  to  make  government  more  of  a  meritocracy, 
Vassiliou  reassigned  a  number  of  ministerial  directors  to  other  po- 
sitions but  encountered  resistance  from  the  parties  when  he  tried 
to  replace  some  of  these  directors. 

The  legislative  body,  the  House  of  Representatives,  consisted 
of  fifty- six  Greek  Cypriot  members,  with  twenty-four  seats  held 
for  Turkish  Cypriots,  who  had  not  recognized  or  participated  in 
the  republic's  legislative  life  since  the  constitutional  amendments 
of  1964.  Originally  a  chamber  of  fifty,  with  thirty-five  Greek  Cypri- 
ots and  fifteen  Turkish  Cypriots,  the  House  of  Representatives  was 
enlarged  in  1985. 

The  republic's  judicial  branch  largely  followed  the  original  struc- 
ture outlined  at  independence.  The  1964  amalgamation  of  the 
Supreme  Constitutional  Court  and  the  High  Court  of  Justice  into 
the  Supreme  Court,  combining  the  functions  of  the  two  former 
courts  and  eliminating  the  neutral  judge,  also  led  to  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Supreme  Council  of  Judicature.  Assigned  the  judica- 
tory functions  of  the  former  high  court,  it  was  composed  of  the 
attorney  general  of  the  republic,  the  president  and  two  judges  of 
the  Supreme  Court,  the  senior  president  of  a  district  court,  a  senior 
district  judge,  and  a  practicing  advocate  elected  every  six  months 
by  a  general  meeting  of  the  Cyprus  Bar  Association. 

As  a  result  of  the  withdrawal  of  Turkish  Cypriot  public  servants 
from  the  government,  the  Public  Service  Commission  could  not 
function  as  provided  for  in  the  constitution.  Therefore,  the  Public 
Service  Law  of  1967  established  a  new  commission  to  exercise  the 
same  functions.  Its  five  members  were  appointed  by  the  president. 
President  Vassiliou 's  effort  to  replace  the  incumbents  with  mem- 
bers of  his  choice  was  thwarted  when  the  parliament  would  not 
provide  funding  to  complete  the  contracts  of  the  replaced  members. 

At  the  district  level,  a  district  officer  coordinated  village  and 
government  activities  and  had  the  right  to  inspect  local  village  coun- 
cils. The  mayors  and  councils  for  municipalities  were  appointed. 

At  the  village  level,  there  had  been  since  Ottoman  times  coun- 
cils, each  composed  of  a  village  head  (mukhtar)  and  elders  (aza\  pi. , 
azades).  Large  villages  that  prior  to  1974  had  had  sizable  mixed 
populations  had  separate  councils,  one  for  each  community.  Un- 
der the  Ottoman  Empire,  the  village  head  and  elders  were  elected 


185 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

by  the  villagers.  In  the  British  period  and  after  independence,  the 
village  heads  were  appointed  by  the  government  and  then  chose 
the  elders.  New  legislation  in  1979  provided  that  village  and  town 
government  officials  should  be  elected  rather  than  appointed,  and 
beginning  in  1979  elections  for  village  councils  and  their  presidents 
have  occurred  every  five  years.  The  cycle  for  municipal  elections 
was  different:  elections  were  held  every  five  years,  most  recently 
in  1986.  These  election  results  generally  followed  the  national  pat- 
tern in  terms  of  the  relative  shares  won  by  each  of  the  parties.  In 
some  cases,  however,  parties  were  able  to  cooperate  at  the  village 
level  although  competing  nationally. 

Political  Parties 

In  the  early  postindependence  period,  Greek  Cypriot  political 
party  life  centered  around  a  loose  coalition  of  Makarios  support- 
ers called  the  Patriotic  Front,  plus  the  communist  party,  AKEL. 
The  front  dissolved  in  the  late  1960s;  its  major  factions  broke  into 
discrete  parties.  The  House  of  Representatives  afterwards  main- 
tained a  fairly  stable  balance  among  four  parties  that  ranged  from 
a  communist  party  to  one  that  was  right  of  center.  Each  of  these 
parties  generally  received  at  least  9  percent  of  the  vote,  more  than 
the  5  percent  being  the  minimum  required  to  win  seats  in  the  legis- 
lature (see  table  3,  Appendix). 

Three  of  the  four  parties  so  divided  the  vote  that  none  ever  won 
a  clear  majority.  The  Republic  of  Cyprus  has  a  modified  propor- 
tional representation  system.  There  were  occasional  proposals  for 
a  simple  proportional  system,  and  the  electoral  law  has  been  modi- 
fied five  times  in  the  1980s. 

As  of  1990,  the  Democratic  Rally  (Dimokratikos  Synagermos — 
DISY)  was  the  largest  parliamentary  party.  Created  in  1976  and 
led  by  Glafkos  Clerides,  it  evolved  from  the  Unified  Democratic 
Party  (Eniaion),  which  was  one  of  the  factions  that  emerged  from 
the  Democratic  Front  in  the  1970  parliamentary  elections.  DISY's 
platform  focused  on  free-enterprise  economic  policies  and  a  prac- 
tical solution  to  the  intercommunal  problem.  It  was  the  most  ex- 
plicitly pro- Western  and  pro-NATO  of  Cyprus 's  parties  and  drew 
its  support  from  middle-class  professionals,  businessmen,  and  white- 
collar  employees.  Its  shares  of  parliamentary  election  votes  were 
24.1  percent  in  1976  (but  no  seats  because  of  the  electoral  law), 
31.9  percent  in  1981  (twelve  seats),  and  33.6  percent  in  1985 
(nineteen  seats). 

The  Democratic  Party  (Dimokratiko  Komma — DIKO),  formed 
in  1976,  was  seen  as  the  closest  to  President  Makarios  and  was 
headed  by  his  successor,  Spyros  Kyprianou.  The  party  platform 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


in  its  first  electoral  campaign  emphasized  a  nonaligned  foreign  poli- 
cy and  a  long-term  struggle  over  Turkish  occupation  in  the  north. 
Over  the  years,  this  party  formed  uneasy  alliances  with  the  two 
more  leftist  parties,  the  communists  and  socialists.  The  Democratic 
Party  won  twenty-one  seats  in  1976,  eight  seats  in  1981  (19.5  per- 
cent), and  sixteen  seats  in  1985  (27.7  percent).  In  June  1990,  Kypri- 
anou  was  reelected  party  leader. 

The  socialist  party,  the  United  Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus 
(Eniea  Dimokratiki  Enosis  Kyprou — EDEK),  often  called  the  So- 
cialist Party  EDEK  (Socialistiko  Komma  EDEK),  was  formed  in 
1969  by  Makarios's  personal  physician,  Vassos  Lyssarides.  The 
party  advocated  socialized  medicine  and  nationalization  of  banks 
and  foreign-owned  mines.  It  was  anti-NATO  and  pro- Arab  and 
favored  a  nonaligned  foreign  policy,  although  those  positions  seemed 
to  have  softened  in  the  late  1980s.  The  party  supported  enosis  with 
a  democratic  Greece,  opposed  continued  British  sovereignty  rights 
on  the  island,  but  differed  from  the  communists  in  keeping  its  dis- 
tance from  the  Soviet  Union.  Its  appeal  was  strongest  among  non- 
communist  leftists,  intellectuals,  and  white-collar  workers.  Its 
electoral  strength  was  the  weakest  of  the  four  parties.  In  1976  EDEK 
won  four  seats,  three  in  1981  (8.2  percent),  and  six  in  1985  (11.1 
percent). 

The  communist  movement  has  been  a  major  force  on  the  island 
since  the  1920s,  often  vying  with  the  Church  of  Cyprus  for  the  role 
of  dominant  political  player.  The  first  communist  party  was  formed 
in  1924  in  Limassol,  was  banned  in  1931 ,  and  reappeared  in  1941 
with  the  creation  of  the  Progressive  Party  of  the  Working  People 
(Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou  Laou — AKEL).  Banned  in 
the  preindependence  emergency  from  1955  to  1959,  AKEL  has 
been  in  every  parliament  since  1960.  AKEL  won  nine  seats  in  1976, 
twelve  in  1981  (32.8  percent),  and  fifteen  in  the  enlarged  chamber 
in  1985.  The  latter  number  represented  a  drop  to  27.4  percent. 

In  response  to  the  serious  crisis  in  the  communist  movement  af- 
ter the  collapse  of  East  European  regimes  in  late  1989,  AKEL  held 
internal  conferences  in  early  1990,  but  resisted  reform  proposals. 
As  a  consequence,  AKEL  dissidents  formed  a  new  leftist  group- 
ing called  the  Democratic  Socialist  Renewal  Movement  (Ananeotiko 
Dimokratiko  Sosialistiko  Kinima— ADISOK)  in  May  1990.  The 
reformers  included  five  members  of  parliament  elected  in  1985  as 
AKEL  leaders.  ADISOK  selected  House  Deputy  Pavlos  Dhinglis 
as  chairman  and  criticized  AKEL  for  undemocratic  behavior  and 
an  anachronistic  mentality.  It  petitioned  President  Vassiliou  for 
representation  on  the  National  Council,  a  forum  in  which  all  po- 
litical groups  met  to  discuss  political  issues. 


187 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

The  parties  had  held  fairly  constant  positions  on  key  policy  is- 
sues since  the  second  half  of  the  1970s.  AKEL  and  DISY,  although 
at  opposite  ends  of  the  ideological  spectrum,  were  regarded  as  most 
flexible  and  forthcoming  on  settlement  matters.  EDEK  and  DIKO 
took  a  harder  line,  pushing  for  a  more  punitive  approach  to  Tur- 
key. On  social  and  economic  policy,  the  parties'  ideological  predilec- 
tions prevailed:  EDEK  and  AKEL  advocated  greater  government 
support  for  workers  and  free  public  health  services;  DISY  favored 
free  enterprise.  Some  Cypriot  analysts  believe  that  DISY  and  DIKO 
have  an  overlapping  constituency  and  could  merge  into  a  single 
centrist  party  if  DIKO  were  to  drop  its  far-right  support,  estimat- 
ed at  5  percent  of  its  strength. 

Media 

The  press  was  another  major  player  in  Greek  Cypriot  politics. 
There  were  ten  Greek-language  and  one  English-language  daily 
papers  for  a  population  of  500,000  (see  table  22,  Appendix).  Tele- 
vision broadcasting  was  government-controlled.  In  1989  President 
Vassiliou  proposed  a  press  law,  aimed  at  setting  guidelines  and 
a  professional  code  of  ethics  and  at  stimulating  greater  competi- 
tion by  allowing  private  radio  stations  (thus  ending  the  monopoly 
of  the  Cyprus  Broadcasting  Corporation).  An  early  version  of  a 
comprehensive  press  bill  passed  in  parliament  and  in  1990  was  un- 
der review  for  further  revisions,  to  address  criticisms  that  in  its  origi- 
nal form  it  set  too  many  regulations.  In  mid- 1990,  parliament 
approved  and  the  president  signed  legislation  to  make  municipali- 
ties, companies,  and  individuals  eligible  to  establish  private  radio 
stations.  A  new  relationship  with  the  Greek  media,  allowing  Cypriot 
television  to  broadcast  Greek  programs,  was  established  in  1990, 
although  it  was  seen  as  threatening  to  the  financially  weak  Cyprus 
Broadcasting  Corporation. 

Political  Dynamics 

The  politics  of  Cyprus  have  gradually  evolved  from  the  shadow 
of  the  dominant  figure  of  Makarios,  who  embodied  the  struggle 
for  independence  from  Britain  and  enosis  with  Greece.  After  in- 
dependence was  achieved  without  enosis,  Makarios 's  own  think- 
ing changed,  and  Cypriot  politics  struggled  with  its  internal 
ghost — enosis.  Makarios  became  persuaded  that  true  national  in- 
dependence for  Cyprus  had  advantages,  and  Greek  political  trends 
by  the  mid-1960s  convinced  him  that  Cyprus  had  a  destiny  dis- 
tinct from  that  of  Greece.  The  Greek  Cypriot  population  did  not 
let  go  of  the  dream  of  enosis  as  quickly,  and  pro-enosis  forces 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


eventually  turned  on  Makarios,  leading  to  the  1974  coup  (see  Con- 
flict Withiri  the  Greek  Cypriot  Community,  1967-74,  ch.  5). 

Although  the  drive  for  enosis  subsided  as  a  mobilizing  force,  the 
difficulties  of  creating  a  nation  out  of  a  bifurcated  society  took  center 
stage.  Makarios  failed  to  draw  the  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriot  com- 
munities together,  but,  helped  by  his  unusual  position  and  special 
gifts,  he  created  a  consensus  among  Greek  Cypriots.  Although  the 
authority  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus  diminished  with  the  rise  of  new 
secular  institutions,  Makarios,  as  its  head,  nonetheless  embodied 
the  traditional  authority  of  Cypriot  Hellenism  and,  as  elected  presi- 
dent, had  legitimate  political  authority.  In  addition,  he  possessed 
an  extraordinary  charisma  and  a  mastery  of  diplomacy  that  his  ad- 
versaries saw  as  deviousness  and  duplicity.  By  the  time  of  the  1974 
coup,  however,  it  was  clear  that  Makarios 's  total  domination  of 
Cypriot  politics  was  coming  to  an  end.  From  July  to  December 
1974,  Makarios  was  out  of  the  country,  and  the  government  of 
the  truncated  republic  was  run  competently  by  Glafkos  Clerides. 
Makarios  and  Clerides  then  competed  as  heads  of  rival  political 
groups,  with  the  differences  between  them  focused  on  the  inter- 
communal  process.  Makarios  reportedly  welcomed  this  competi- 
tion as  a  sign  of  growing  Cypriot  political  maturity. 

After  Makarios' s  death  in  1977,  Kyprianou  succeeded  to  the 
presidency,  and  Clerides  continued  as  the  principal  opposition  lead- 
er. The  two  men  differed,  among  other  things,  over  how  to  deal 
with  the  intercommunal  talks. 

Sharing  the  stage  with  Kyprianou  were  several  other  major 
figures,  including  Archbishop  Chrysostomos,  who  had  succeeded 
Makarios  as  head  of  the  Church  of  Cyprus.  Although  the  arch- 
bishop traveled  the  world  meeting  with  overseas  Greeks,  Chry- 
sostomos's  personal  political  impact  was  judged  by  many  to  be  far 
less  significant  than  that  of  Makarios  or  that  of  the  church  as  a 
whole. 

Kyprianou  was  in  many  ways  typical  of  the  centrist,  noncon- 
troversial  political  figures  who  often  follow  charismatic  leaders.  He 
sought  to  preserve  the  Makarios  legacy  and  pursue  policies  that 
would  further  Makarios 's  goals.  But  Kyraianou  did  not  have  the 
tactical  dexterity  or  diplomatic  skill  of  Makarios,  and  he  became 
associated  with  an  approach  to  the  settlement  process  that  preserved 
the  status  quo,  rather  than  displaying  the  openness  and  initiative 
that  characterized  Makarios  at  the  end  of  his  life.  By  the  late  1980s, 
the  Kyprianou  presidency  was  considered  weak  and  passive,  unable 
to  break  the  stalemate  in  the  settlement  process  and  losing  respect 
at  home.  At  the  same  time,  Kyprianou 's  less  authoritative  style 
did  allow  more  competition  in  Greek  Cypriot  politics,  permitting 


189 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


independents  and  other  party  leaders  to  contest  presidential  elec- 
tions with  greater  prospects  for  success. 

Political  Culture  in  the  Vassiliou  Era 

The  election  of  George  Vassiliou  in  February  1988  was  unex- 
pected. Although  many  Cypriots  were  increasingly  disaffected  be- 
cause of  the  lack  of  progress  in  the  intercommunal  talks  and  the 
incumbent's  reputation  for  passivity  and  ineffectiveness,  the  results 
were  an  upset.  The  first  round,  held  on  February  14,  gave  a  plural- 
ity and  33.3  percent  to  Glafkos  Clerides  of  DISY.  Vassiliou,  an 
independent,  came  in  second,  with  30.1  percent,  and  the  incum- 
bent, Spyros  Kyprianou  of  DIKO,  came  in  third  with  27.3  per- 
cent. Kyprianou  was  defeated,  according  to  Cypriot  press  opinion, 
because  of  inflexibility  in  the  settlement  talks  and  because  of  party 
maneuvering,  including  an  unpopular  tactical  alliance  with  the  com- 
munist party,  AKEL. 

The  runoff  between  Clerides  and  Vassiliou  was  held  on  Febru- 
ary 21 ,  and  Vassiliou  won  by  a  little  over  10,000  votes.  He  polled 
51.6  percent;  Clerides,  a  veteran  of  Cypriot  politics  and  acting  presi- 
dent in  1974,  polled  48.4  percent.  Ironically,  in  the  final  contest 
the  two  men  were  in  substantial  agreement  over  the  settlement  is- 
sue; both  expressed  eagerness  to  engage  in  talks  with  Denkta§,  and 
neither  made  withdrawal  of  Turkish  troops  a  precondition  for  talks. 
Some  observers  believe  that  Clerides  narrowly  missed  victory  be- 
cause of  his  past  associations  with  right-wing  political  groups. 

Born  in  Famagusta  in  1931,  Vassiliou  completed  secondary 
school  in  Cyprus  and  spent  more  than  a  decade  studying  and  work- 
ing in  Europe.  He  received  a  doctorate  in  economics  in  Hungary. 
Upon  his  return  to  Cyprus  in  1962,  he  founded  and  became  presi- 
dent of  the  Middle  East  Marketing  Research  Bureau,  the  largest 
consultancy  in  the  region,  with  offices  in  eleven  countries. 

Vassiliou 's  campaign  emphasized  his  wish  to  invigorate  the  set- 
tlement process.  He  offered  to  meet  directly  with  both  then-Prime 
Minister  Turgut  Ozal  of  Turkey  and  his  Turkish  Cypriot  coun- 
terpart, Denktag.  Without  a  strong  party  base,  Vassiliou  also  decid- 
ed to  resurrect  the  National  Council,  first  created  by  Makarios, 
with  the  hope  that  the  political  parties  meeting  together  could  forge 
a  collective  and  consensus-based  policy  toward  the  settlement 
process.  Vassiliou  proceeded  to  work  out  new  rules  with  the  party 
leaders,  including  guidelines  on  which  issues  required  their  unani- 
mous consent.  He  pledged  to  put  any  settlement  plan  to  the  peo- 
ple in  a  referendum.  But  his  seemingly  liberal  views  on  a  setdement 
were  tempered  by  his  policy  commitment  to  reorganize  and  rein- 
force civil  defense  and  increase  defense  spending. 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


A  number  of  factors  brought  Vassiliou  to  power.  The  electorate 
was  frustrated  by  the  impasse  in  the  settlement  process  and  wel- 
comed someone  who  spoke  of  new  ideas  and  energy.  More  broadly, 
the  vote  may  have  signaled  the  end  of  the  Makarios  era  and  the 
desire  for  new  leaders,  rather  than  Makarios' s  heir  apparent. 

Vassiliou  brought  to  the  presidential  palace  skills  learned  in  the 
private  sector,  such  as  prompt  decision  making,  cost-benefit  anal- 
ysis, marketing,  and  open  competition,  that  promised  livelier  and 
more  effective  policy  making.  Some  Cypriots  welcomed  his  attempt 
to  bring  corporate  boardroom  concepts  into  politics.  Others  resented 
it.  In  his  first  two  years  in  office,  Vassiliou  was  constrained  by  the 
island's  experienced  politicians,  who  had  different  agendas,  and 
by  Turkish  Cypriot  strategies  that  did  not  embrace  the  spirit  of 
Vassiliou 's  settlement  message. 

The  new  president  tried  to  introduce  fresh  faces  into  the  execu- 
tive branch.  His  first  cabinet  had  only  two  ministers  who  had  previ- 
ously held  office:  George  Iacovou  continued  to  serve  as  foreign 
minister,  ensuring  continuity  in  external  relations,  and  Christodou- 
los  Veniamin  took  the  post  of  interior  minister,  which  he  had  held, 
along  with  other  cabinet  posts,  between  1975  and  1985.  In  May 
1990,  President  Vassiliou  replaced  four  of  his  cabinet  ministers  and 
appointed  several  who  had  not  served  in  previous  cabinets.  For 
the  most  part,  the  outside  appointees  were  people  who  had  the  ap- 
proval of  one  or  more  of  the  major  parties. 

Vassiliou  had  promised  to  achieve  progress  in  talks  with  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  through  intercommunal  talks  and  negotiations  with 
Turkey.  However,  in  his  first  two  years  he  made  no  breakthrough 
toward  a  settlement. 

He  achieved  more  in  other  areas.  In  the  1988  election  campaign, 
Vassiliou  spoke  of  his  desire  to  make  changes  in  the  civil  service, 
to  end  the  spoils  system  that  had  created  a  large  and  inefficient 
public  sector.  He  pledged  moves  toward  a  meritocracy  and  promised 
to  bring  into  government  energetic,  talented  people  from  the  pri- 
vate sector.  During  his  first  two  years  in  office,  he  was  unable  to 
replace  the  incumbent  appointees  to  the  Public  Service  Commis- 
sion with  his  own  candidates  because  the  parliament  did  not  ap- 
prove funds  for  it.  Nor  did  another  campaign  promise,  to  create 
a  government  ombudsman  as  a  clearinghouse  for  complaints,  make 
headway  in  the  first  two  years  of  his  presidency.  He  was  also  un- 
able to  wrest  from  the  political  parties  appointments  to  quasi- 
governmental  posts  such  as  utilities  boards.  He  failed  to  pursue 
vigorously  a  campaign  pledge  to  investigate  charges  of  corruption 
in  the  police  force. 


191 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Vassiliou's  modest  gains  in  these  efforts  were  constrained  by  the 
parties'  resistance  to  the  businessman-president's  ideas.  The  parlia- 
ment failed  to  approve  many  of  his  requests  for  new  positions,  such 
as  political  appointments  for  ministerial  special  assistants  and  even 
experts  to  assist  the  president. 

Vassiliou  did  manage  to  dilute  the  parties'  power  to  some  extent. 
Political  patronage  jobs,  formerly  the  perquisites  of  the  largest  party, 
were  shared  among  the  major  parties,  reflecting  Vassiliou's  desire 
for  a  consensus-based  political  system.  Vassiliou  often  chose  for 
appointed  positions  associates  whose  skills  he  respected  but  who 
were  also  acceptable  to  one  or  more  of  the  major  parties.  This  power 
sharing  with  the  parties,  however,  kept  the  new  president  from  keep- 
ing his  promise  to  reduce  the  size  of  the  public  sector. 

Yet  Vassiliou's  intelligence,  energy,  and  worldliness  were  valued 
by  Cyprus' s  friends  overseas.  Vassiliou  visited  all  major  Europe- 
an capitals,  traveled  in  the  United  States,  and  attended  multilateral 
conferences  to  explain  the  Cyprus  situation  and  enlist  support  for 
new  settlement  efforts.  He  was  troubled  that  the  dramatic  and  tri- 
umphant world  events  of  1989  and  1990  distracted  world  atten- 
tion from  the  Cyprus  problem,  and  he  was  concerned  about  the 
prospects  for  its  neglect.  His  presidency,  nevertheless,  although  it 
did  not  produce  dramatic  results,  won  respect  and  attention  from 
a  number  of  friendly  governments. 

Politics  in  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  government  gradually  evolved  after  1963. 
In  1975  and  again  in  1983,  major  changes  were  made  to  develop 
a  national  identity  and  the  institutions  of  statehood,  despite  the 
government's  dependence  on  Turkey  and  lack  of  recognition  by 
the  world  community. 

The  political  evolution  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  government  com- 
plicated the  search  for  a  settlement.  Greek  Cypriots  held  that  the 
institutional  changes  since  1974  were  illegitimate  and  artificial  and 
could  be  reversed  for  the  sake  of  a  settlement.  Although  Turkish 
Cypriots  maintained  that  these  changes  need  not  impede  creation 
of  a  federal  republic  and  that  some  of  them  could  be  nullified  if 
replaced  by  acceptable  alternatives,  it  was  increasingly  clear  that 
the  new  institutions  were  becoming  rooted  in  Turkish  Cypriot  so- 
ciety. In  addition,  the  de  facto  autonomy  that  Turkish  Cypriots 
had  become  accustomed  to  would  be  difficult  to  dismantle. 

Thus,  the  situation  on  the  ground  in  the  north  shaped  and  nar- 
rowed the  possible  outcomes  in  the  talks.  Although  Turkish  Cypriot 
politics  were  the  politics  of  a  small  and  fragile  entity  dependent 
on  an  outside  patron,  the  prospects  for  fundamental  change  in  the 


192 


"Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  Office  of  the  Prime  Minister,  Nicosia 
Courtesy  Office  of  the  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,  "  Washington 

government  of  Cyprus  may  depend  more  on  the  community  in  the 
north  than  on  the  better  known  and  more  politically  stable  Greek 
Cypriot  society. 

Major  Political  Institutions  in  the  "TRNC" 

The  institutional  framework  for  the  "TRNC"  was  set  out  in 
the  1985  constitution,  drafted  by  the  Constitutional  Commission 
and  approved  by  the  Constituent  Assembly  in  March  1985  and 
by  a  national  referendum  in  May  1985.  The  constitution  was  ap- 
proved by  70.2  percent  of  the  votes  cast;  opposition  to  it  centered 
on  its  retention  of  capital  punishment  and  certain  other  provisions 
deemed  too  politically  restrictive. 

Although  based  on  the  1975  document  that  established  the  "Turk- 
ish Federated  State  of  Cyprus,"  the  new  constitution  provided  for 
an  unfettered  independent  republic.  It  made  no  reference  to  a  fed- 
eral republic,  but  Turkish  Cypriot  authorities  consistently  point- 
ed to  a  March  1985  Constituent  Assembly  vote  declaring  that  the 
new  constitution  would  not  hinder  establishment  of  a  federal 
republic. 

The  constitution  establishes  a  secular  republic  based  on  princi- 
ples of  democracy,  social  justice,  and  the  supremacy  of  law.  The 
balance  of  powers  among  the  governmental  branches  is  flexible, 


193 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

not  fixed;  the  president  and  the  Legislative  Assembly  both  partici- 
pate in  the  Council  of  Judicature,  which  names,  promotes,  and 
oversees  the  judicial  branch.  The  president  and  the  legislature  also 
share  the  power  to  declare  war  and  commit  armed  forces  overseas. 

The  president,  elected  for  five  years,  is  required  to  be  of  Cypri- 
ot  parentage  and  to  have  resided  in  Cyprus  for  five  years.  He  is 
the  head  of  state  and  commander  in  chief,  although  the  security 
forces  are  the  responsibility  of  the  prime  minister.  The  president 
may  preside  over  meetings  of  the  cabinet,  the  Council  of  Ministers, 
but  does  not  have  a  vote.  He  also  names  the  prime  minister  from 
those  elected  to  parliament  and  appoints,  in  consultation  with  the 
prime  minister,  other  ministers,  who  need  not  be  elected  mem- 
bers. The  number  of  ministries  is  limited  by  the  constitution  to 
ten.  In  the  event  of  a  vacancy  in  the  office  of  the  president,  the  pres- 
ident of  the  Legislative  Assembly  would  become  acting  president. 

The  Legislative  Assembly  is  a  unicameral  body  of  fifty  mem- 
bers elected  for  five-year  terms.  It  enacts  laws,  exercises  control 
over  the  Council  of  Ministers,  approves  the  budget,  has  authority 
to  give  general  and  special  amnesties,  decides  whether  to  carry  out 
death  penalties  imposed  by  the  courts,  and  ratifies  international 
agreements.  Upon  an  absolute  majority  vote,  the  Legislative  As- 
sembly may  dissolve  itself  and  call  for  new  elections.  Under  cer- 
tain circumstances,  the  president  may  also  dissolve  the  body. 

The  judicial  system  established  by  the  1985  constitution  rough- 
ly corresponds  in  several  features  to  the  provisions  of  the  1 960  con- 
stitution of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  The  Supreme  Court  consists 
of  a  president  and  seven  judges,  and  has  jurisdiction  to  sit  as  the 
Supreme  Constitutional  Court,  the  Court  of  Appeal,  and  the  High 
Administrative  Court.  As  the  Constitutional  Court,  it  is  composed 
of  five  justices  and  as  a  Court  of  Appeal,  three.  The  "TRNC," 
drawing  on  the  1960  constitution  and  on  the  Turkish  and  United 
States  systems,  provides  for  challenges  to  the  constitutionality  of 
legislation.  The  Supreme  Court,  in  its  role  as  High  Administra- 
tive Court,  fulfills  the  same  functions  as  described  in  article  146 
of  the  1960  constitution.  The  Supreme  Council  of  Judicature,  con- 
sisting of  the  Supreme  Court,  the  attorney  general,  and  several 
other  officials,  is  the  exclusive  authority  for  appointments,  promo- 
tions, disciplinary  control,  and  all  other  matters  relating  to  the 
judges  of  the  courts. 

There  are  three  categories  of  lower  courts.  Assize  courts,  in  the 
capitals  of  the  three  districts  of  the  "TRNC,"  sit  three  times  a 
year  to  try  persons  convicted  of  indictable  offenses.  These  courts 
have  unlimited  jurisdiction  in  criminal  matters.  District  courts,  also 
located  in  the  district  capitals,  have  jurisdiction  in  civil  and  criminal 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


matters.  Family  courts,  each  composed  of  a  single  judge,  hear  and 
determine  actions  relating  to  personal  status  and  religious  matters. 

For  administrative  purposes,  the  "TRNC"  is  divided  into  three 
districts,  Nicosia  (Lefko§a),  Famagusta  (Gazimagusa),  and  Kyre- 
nia  (Girne),  each  headed  by  a  district  officer  (kaymakam),  the 
representative  of  the  central  government  and  subordinate  to  the 
minister  of  interior.  There  are  twenty-six  municipalities,  consist- 
ing of  towns  and  large  villages,  each  governed  by  a  municipal  coun- 
cil and  its  head,  the  mayor.  Council  members  and  the  mayor  win 
their  posts  in  municipal  elections,  usually  held  every  four  years. 
Candidates  in  these  elections  may  run  as  independents  or  be  af- 
filiated with  a  party.  Villages,  of  which  there  are  about  150,  are 
each  governed  by  a  village  commission  consisting  of  a  mayor 
(muhtar)  and  assistants  {aza\  pi.,  azalar),  also  elected  for  four-year 
terms.  Municipalities  usually  dealt  with  the  relevant  ministry  when 
approaching  the  national  government.  Villages  usually  contacted 
the  district  kaymakam  when  they  wished  the  services  of  the  central 
government. 

Political  Parties 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  community  had  three  major  political  par- 
ties. A  few  smaller  parties  emerged  in  the  1980s,  and  a  1990  alli- 
ance among  three  opposition  parties  was  short-lived. 

The  ruling  party,  the  National  Unity  Party  (Ulusal  Birlik 
Partisi— UBP),  was  founded  by  Denktas.  in  1975.  Its  head  in  1990 
was  Dervi§  Eroglu,  the  prime  minister.  The  UBP  was  reported  to 
draw  on  former  members  of  the  Turkish  Resistance  Organization 
(Turk  Mukavemet  Teskilati — TMT)  and  other  conservative  na- 
tionalist forces.  The  party  was  also  a  rallying  point  for  forces  that 
sought  close  ties  to  Turkey  and  identified  themselves  as  Turks  more 
than  Cypriots.  In  the  1980s,  the  party  governed  alone  or  in  coali- 
tion, but  was  riven  with  internal  personality  conflicts  and  charges 
of  corruption.  Its  electoral  performance  was  uneven,  but  the  party 
implemented  electoral  law  changes  that  favored  its  plurality.  Its 
strength  was  augmented,  it  was  commonly  accepted,  by  support 
from  settlers  from  the  Turkish  mainland.  In  the  1976  elections, 
the  UBP  won  thirty  of  the  forty  parliamentary  seats;  it  dropped 
to  eighteen  seats  in  1981  but  won  twenty-four  seats  in  the  enlarged 
parliament  of  1985  and  thirty-four  in  the  1990  elections.  After 
March  1990,  changes  in  the  electoral  law  that  favored  the  strong- 
est party,  the  UBP  won  nearly  70  percent  of  the  seats  with  55  per- 
cent of  the  vote. 

As  it  had  in  the  municipal  elections  of  1976,  1980,  and  1986, 
the  UBP  won  a  majority  of  the  mayoral  posts  in  the  elections  of 


195 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

June  1990.  The  party's  victory  was  not  as  impressive  as  in  the  past, 
for  the  other  parties  boycotted  the  elections  and  the  UBP  had  only 
independent  candidates  for  opponents.  Despite  the  absence  of  or- 
ganized opposition,  the  UBP  won  only  fourteen  of  the  twenty- six 
mayoral  contests,  although  it  was  victorious  in  the  three  larg- 
est municipalities:  the  capital,  Nicosia,  and  the  two  ports,  Fama- 
gusta  and  Kyrenia. 

The  second  major  party  in  the  "TRNC"  was  the  Communal 
Liberation  Party  (Toplumcu  Kurtulu§  Partisi — TKP),  founded  in 
1976  by  Alpay  Durduran.  The  party  has  supported  a  federal  solu- 
tion but  has  criticized  the  government  for  the  pace  of  negotiations, 
the  failure  to  encourage  more  contact  between  the  two  communi- 
ties, and  the  policy  of  encouraging  settlers  from  Turkey.  The  party's 
head,  Mustafa  Akinci,  served  three  terms  as  mayor  of  Nicosia  and 
became  known  for  his  bridge-building  efforts  with  his  Greek  Cypriot 
counterpart,  Lellos  Demetriades.  In  one  of  the  few  examples  of 
bicommunal  cooperation,  the  two  mayors  worked  with  the  UN  and 
other  international  organizations  on  joint  projects  such  as  restora- 
tion of  the  medieval  walls  of  the  capital  city  and  a  common  sewage 
system.  The  TKP  was  strengthened  temporarily  in  1990  when 
Ismet  Kotak,  former  UBP  deputy  and  newspaper  publisher,  left 
the  small  defunct  Progressive  People's  Party  and  joined  the  TKP. 
The  TKP  backed  Ismail  Bozkurt,  an  independent  presidential  can- 
didate, in  the  1990  parliamentary  elections.  The  TKP  won  six  seats 
in  the  1976  elections,  thirteen  in  1981,  ten  in  the  fifty- seat  cham- 
ber in  1985,  and  five  in  the  1990  elections  as  part  of  an  electoral 
alliance,  the  Democratic  Struggle  Party  (Demokratik  Miicadele 
Partisi — DMP).  In  mid- 1990,  the  strength  of  the  party  was 
weakened  when  the  DMP  failed  to  oust  the  UBP.  The  TKP  with- 
drew from  the  alliance,  and  most  of  its  members  boycotted  the 
parliament  to  protest  what  it  considered  electoral  improprieties  by 
the  ruling  party  and  by  Turkey. 

The  third  of  the  main  parties  and  the  oldest  party  in  the 
"TRNC,"  the  Republican  Turkish  Party  (Cumhuriyetci  Turk 
Partisi — CTP),  was  founded  in  1970.  Its  leader,  Ozker  Ozgiir,  dis- 
avowed alleged  communist  leanings  and  described  his  party's  ideol- 
ogy as  progressive  socialist.  Much  of  the  CTP's  support  derived 
from  the  small  labor  movement  on  the  island.  The  party  won  two 
seats  in  the  1976  elections,  six  in  1981,  twelve  in  1985,  and  seven 
in  1990,  when  it  joined  the  TKP  and  the  New  Dawn  Party  (Yeni 
Dogus.  Partisi — YDP)  in  the  DMP  electoral  alliance.  After  the  elec- 
tions and  the  collapse  of  the  alliance,  the  CTP  deputies  joined  their 
TKP  colleagues  in  boycotting  the  parliament. 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


The  YDP  emerged  with  minor  electoral  strength  in  the  1985  elec- 
tions. Founded  in  1984  with  considerable  support  from  the  Turk- 
ish Embassy,  the  YDP  consolidated  several  smaller  parties  that  at- 
tracted support  from  Turkish  setders  on  the  island.  Many  settlers, 
however,  continued  to  vote  for  the  UBP.  The  party's  leader  for 
several  years  was  retired  Turkish  colonel  Aytac  Be§e§ler,  who  ar- 
rived on  Cyprus  in  1979.  In  the  1985  elections,  the  YDP  won  four 
seats  in  the  Legislative  Assembly.  In  1988  Be§e§ler  was  replaced 
as  party  head  by  Orhan  Ucok,  reportedly  a  supporter  of  Turkish 
opposition  leader  Siileyman  Demirel  and  less  inclined  to  provide 
automatic  support  for  the  ruling  party  and  the  president.  The  YDP 
briefly  joined  the  electoral  opposition  alliance  DMP  that  stood  in 
the  May  1990  elections,  presumably  because  its  membership  felt 
the  government  was  not  moving  quickly  enough  on  some  issues 
of  concern  to  them,  one  of  which  was  providing  legal  title  to  their 
property.  When  the  DMP  failed  to  defeat  the  UBP  and  disbanded, 
the  two  YDP  candidates  took  their  seats  in  the  Assembly. 

Media 

The  press  was  an  active  participant  in  political  life  in  the  "TRNC," 
and  the  role  of  the  progovernment  press  in  influencing  election 
outcomes  sparked  increasing  controversy.  There  was  no  law  regulat- 
ing media  behavior  or  ethics.  The  state-controlled  radio  and  tele- 
vision was  80  percent  fed  from  Turkish  national  television.  There 
were  ten  daily  papers  in  the  north  in  1990,  three  owned  by  pro- 
Denktas.  business  magnate  Asil  Nadir,  three  affiliated  with  parties, 
and  four  independents,  including  one  that  focused  on  financial  matters. 

Rauf  Denkta§  and  Turkish  Cypriot  Politics 

As  Makarios  was  the  dominant  figure  in  Greek  Cypriot  politics 
for  nearly  two  decades  after  independence,  so  Rauf  Denkta§  over- 
shadowed all  other  political  forces  in  Turkish  Cypriot  politics.  Born 
in  Paphos  in  1924,  Denkta§  was  trained  as  a  lawyer.  He  was  from 
a  prominent  family  that  lived  in  close  proimity  to  Greek  Cypri- 
ots,  and  his  biographers  have  chronicled  many  grievances  and 
humiliations  that  he  suffered  as  a  youth  from  intolerant  Greek 
Cypriots.  He  was  politically  active  from  a  young  age  and  was  ex- 
iled to  Turkey  during  the  preindependence  period.  His  activity  in 
Turkish  Cypriot  politics  has  been  continuous;  he  emerged  as  a  pro- 
tege of  Vice  President  Kiiciik,  became  intercommunal  negotiator 
in  1968,  and  was  vice  president  of  the  republic  at  the  time  of  the 
1974  crisis.  He  was  elected  president  of  the  "TSFC"  in  1975,  was 
reelected  in  1981,  became  president  of  the  "TRNC"  in  1985,  and 
successfully  stood  for  election  in  that  year  and  again  in  1990. 


197 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Under  Denkta§,  constitutional  changes  have  occurred  that  made 
the  parliament  stronger  and  the  president  weaker,  theoretically, 
than  their  counterparts  in  the  republic  in  the  south.  Yet  Denkta§ 
remained  a  more  powerful  figure  on  the  Turkish  Cypriot  scene  than 
his  legal  role  would  suggest.  He  retained  considerable  influence 
over  the  governing  political  party  by  playing  personalities  against 
one  another  and  preventing  independent  leadership  of  the  party, 
despite  his  formal  claims  to  being  above  politics.  He  used  the  force 
of  his  personal  appeals  to  national  security  and  national  interest 
whenever  opposition  parties  appeared  to  be  gaining  in  electoral 
strength. 

From  one  perspective,  Denkta§  presided  over  an  entity  in  which 
the  consensus  over  the  core  issue — the  settlement  with  Greek 
Cypriots — remained  remarkably  strong,  and  his  powerful  presence 
successfully  reflected  and  symbolized  national  unity.  But  from 
another  perspective,  Turkish  Cypriot  political  culture,  with  its 
proclivity  toward  factiousness  and  frequent  questioning  of  the  rules 
of  the  game,  seemed  to  push  for  more  rational  and  competitive 
democracy.  There  also  were  signs  of  continued  resentment  and 
resistance,  in  certain  quarters,  to  a  domineering  father  figure. 

The  three  elections  of  1990 — presidential  in  April,  parliamen- 
tary in  May,  and  municipal  in  June — suggested  some  new  politi- 
cal dynamics  in  the  "TRNC."  Denkta§  was  challenged  by  two 
veteran  politicians,  Alpay  Durduran  and  Ismail  Bozkurt.  The  op- 
position parties,  after  considerable  debate  over  strategy,  backed 
Bozkurt 's  candidacy.  Denkta§'s  two- thirds  approval  rating  thus 
worked  to  the  disfavor  of  the  opposition  parties  facing  parliamen- 
tary elections.  In  what  many  considered  an  alliance  of  convenience, 
the  TKP  and  CTP  joined  with  the  setder  party— the  YDP— to  form 
the  electoral  alliance  DMP.  The  alliance  was  formed  mainly  in  op- 
position to  UBP  domination  of  the  parliament  and  political 
patronage.  To  a  lesser  degree,  its  members  were  united  in  the  view 
that  Denkta§'s  control  of  the  political  system  had  inhibited 
democratic  competition.  The  main  goal  of  the  alliance  was  to  reduce 
UBP  control  of  political  power;  its  candidates  pledged,  if  elected, 
to  revise  the  electoral  law  and  go  to  new  elections  within  a  few 
months.  The  alliance  did  not  differ  with  the  ruling  establishment 
on  the  setdement  question  and  emphasized  domestic  issues,  such 
as  the  alleged  corruption  of  the  UBP  and  what  it  viewed  as  ineffec- 
tive economic  policies.  The  parties  had  worked  out  a  power-sharing 
arrangement  among  themselves  should  they  win,  including  a  pledge 
by  the  leftist  CTP  to  decline  a  major  post,  such  as  the  premiership 
or  speaker  of  the  parliament. 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


The  outcome  of  the  presidential  elections  hampered  the  DMP's 
strategy,  and  there  were  reports  that  many  settlers  abandoned  the 
YDP,  casting  their  parliamentary  votes  for  Denkta§'s  party.  The 
alliance's  failure  at  the  polls  (it  won  sixteen  out  of  fifty  seats)  caused 
considerable  internal  strain,  and  the  alliance  collapsed.  The  two 
major  opposition  parties,  the  TKP  and  the  CTP,  continued  to  work 
together  after  the  May  vote;  they  challenged  the  outcome  of  the 
elections  and  charged  Turkish  mainland  interference  and  other  im- 
proprieties. They  also  continued  to  complain  that  the  electoral  law 
greatly  favored  the  ruling  party.  Four  of  the  DMP's  fourteen 
deputies  broke  from  the  alliance  and  joined  the  parliament;  two 
were  from  the  YDP  and  two,  including  Ismet  Kotak,  had  run  on 
the  TKP  ticket. 

Foreign  Policy 

From  the  time  of  independence,  Cypriots  saw  their  problem  on 
several  levels.  First,  it  was  an  intercommunal  problem  that  required 
local,  domestic  political  solutions.  Next,  and  very  close  to  this  level, 
was  the  relationship  of  the  island  to  its  motherlands,  Greece  and 
Turkey;  the  two  Cypriot  communities  struggled  with  the  question 
of  how  much  their  foreign  policies  should  be  determined  by  the 
foreign  policy  interests  and  resources  of  the  motherlands.  At  another 
level,  many  Cypriots  considered  their  island  a  pawn  in  the  super- 
power struggle,  often  exaggerating  its  strategic  significance.  Be- 
cause the  two  motherlands,  Greece  and  Turkey,  were  North 
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  members,  Cyprus  was  by 
definition  a  problem  within  the  Western  camp,  a  circumstance  the 
Soviet  Union  and  its  allies,  during  the  Cold  War,  occasionally 
sought  to  exploit.  As  a  response  to  these  constricting  relationships, 
Cypriot  foreign  policy  was  nonaligned,  and  both  communities  found 
support  among  Third  World  countries  for  whom  the  Cyprus 
problem  resonated  with  their  own  problems,  be  it  the  matter  of 
a  larger  nearby  state  occupying  territory  of  a  smaller  one,  or  the 
matter  of  a  religious  minority  suffering  discrimination  at  the  hands 
of  the  majority. 

Cyprus' s  relations  with  the  outside  world  were  shaped  profoundly 
by  the  chronic  dilemma  of  the  island's  political  identity.  The  two 
communities  conducted  narrow  foreign  policies  focused  on  this  sin- 
gle issue.  Yet  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  conducted  active  and  effec- 
tive diplomatic  efforts  in  many  countries  to  win  support  for  its 
position  in  UN  settlement  talks  and  in  support  of  sympathetic  reso- 
lutions in  multilateral  forums  of  which  Cyprus  was  a  member.  The 
"TRNC"  by  the  mid-1980s  tried  to  break  out  of  its  isolation  and 
began  to  conduct  its  own  foreign  policy,  in  some  ways  mirroring 


199 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

the  efforts  of  its  Greek  Cypriot  neighbors.  Recognition  as  a  state 
was  the  primary  foreign  policy  objective  of  the  regime  in  the  north. 
Foreign  policy  in  general  was  considerably  more  important  for  the 
republic;  the  "TRNC"  was  persuaded  that  its  cause  would  benefit 
from  "benign  neglect"  by  the  world  community,  allowing  the  two 
communities  to  develop  normal  relations  without  external  pressure. 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus 

The  founding  documents  of  Cyprus 's  independence  set  some  re- 
quirements for  its  foreign  policy  and  linked  the  republic  to  three 
NATO  members — Turkey,  Greece,  and  Britain — through  a  Treaty 
of  Alliance  and  a  Treaty  of  Guarantee.  These  treaties,  calling  for 
the  motherlands  to  garrison  troops  on  the  island  and  for  the  three 
NATO  countries  to  guarantee  and  protect  the  independence  of  the 
republic,  seemed  to  constrain  or  contradict  the  commitment  to 
nonalignment  enshrined  in  the  constitution.  Cypriots  complained 
about  these  implied  limits  on  their  sovereignty,  but  in  time  devel- 
oped foreign  policies  that  were  independent  of  the  motherlands. 

The  Foreign  Policy  of  Internationalization 

Greek  Cypriots  have  focused  most  of  their  foreign  policy  ener- 
gies since  1974  on  winning  broader  international  support  for  a 
Cyprus  settlement  providing  for  a  withdrawal  of  Turkish  troops 
and,  to  the  extent  possible,  a  restoration  of  the  status  quo  ante  of 
a  single  government  on  the  island  and  the  free  flow  of  people  and 
goods  throughout  its  territory.  The  republic  continued  to  enjoy  in- 
ternational recognition  as  the  legal  government  of  Cyprus;  and 
membership  in  the  Nonaligned  Movement  (NAM),  the  Confer- 
ence on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE),  the  United 
Nations,  and  the  Commonwealth  provided  opportunities  to  pro- 
mote these  aims.  Resolutions  passed  by  these  organizations  called 
for  the  withdrawal  of  foreign  troops,  condemned  Turkey's  settler 
policy,  urged  the  immediate  implementation  of  UN  resolutions, 
and  called  for  sanctions  against  Turkey. 

Cyprus  placed  considerable  importance  on  its  membership  in 
the  NAM.  It  hosted  a  number  of  NAM  meetings  and  headed  an 
effort  in  1989  and  1990  to  redefine  the  NAM's  objectives  in  light 
of  the  dramatic  changes  in  East-West  relations  and  the  virtual  end 
of  superpower  rivalry  and  competition.  Support  from  the  non- 
aligned  states  was  particularly  important  during  UN  debates. 
Greek  Cypriots  were  aware  that  UN  resolutions  lacked  direct  ef- 
fect on  Turkey  unless  accompanied  by  substantive  sanctions,  but 
they  hoped  that  collective  international  pressure  might  yield  some 
results.  On  occasion,  the  republic  was  persuaded  by  its  Western 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


allies  to  forego  the  annual  UN  General  Assembly  resolution  de- 
bate, avoiding  repetitious  and  largely  ineffective  rituals  and  allow- 
ing the  UN-sponsored  talks  to  proceed  without  undue  pressure. 
President  Vassiliou  adapted  the  traditional  Greek  Cypriot  strat- 
egy to  his  new  thinking  by  occasionally  modifying  his  language, 
avoiding  punitive  measures,  and  emphasizing  positive  incentives 
to  engage  Turkish  Cypriots  in  negotiations.  After  the  collapse  of 
the  1990  UN  talks,  however,  Greek  Cypriot  positions  in  inter- 
national organizations  returned  to  earlier  phases,  seeking  direct 
condemnation  of  Turkish  and  Turkish  Cypriot  policies  and 
practices. 

The  strategy  of  internationalization  became  more  Europe- 
oriented  in  1990.  After  the  fall  of  the  Berlin  wall  and  the  com- 
mitment to  unification  of  the  two  Germanies,  the  Greek  Cypriot 
republic  perceived  its  situation  as  increasingly  anomalous  and  un- 
acceptable. It  argued  that,  after  Soviet  troops  completed  withdraw- 
ing from  Eastern  Europe,  Cyprus  would  be  the  only  country  in 
Europe  with  foreign  occupying  troops.  The  unification  of  Germa- 
ny also  underscored  the  deep  Greek  Cypriot  yearning  for  reunifi- 
cation, and  Greek  Cypriots  held  candlelight  processions  around 
the  old  walls  of  the  capital,  Nicosia,  calling  for  an  end  to  the  divi- 
sion of  the  island. 

The  decline  of  the  relative  importance  of  NATO  among  Euro- 
pean institutions  had  both  advantages  and  disadvantages  for  Greek 
Cypriot  foreign  policy.  On  the  one  hand,  it  appeared  to  reduce 
Turkey's  leverage  over  its  Western  allies  and  opened  the  way  for 
broader  pressures  on  Turkey.  On  the  other  hand,  the  potential 
loosening  of  Turkey's  ties  with  Western  partners  could  also  weaken 
those  countries'  influence  on  Turkey's  policies.  In  addition,  the 
preoccupation  with  Germany  and  the  emergence  of  new  violent 
conflicts  in  the  Balkans  made  it  harder  to  keep  the  attention  of  Eu- 
ropean powers  on  Cyprus. 

The  proposals  in  mid- 1990  to  expand  the  mission  and  scope  of 
the  CSCE  appealed  to  Greek  Cypriots.  They  had  found  participa- 
tion in  the  CSCE,  along  with  six  other  neutral  and  nonaligned  Eu- 
ropean states,  less  satisfactory  when  the  organization's  main 
function  was  as  a  forum  for  East- West  confidence-building  mea- 
sures. In  a  future  united  Europe,  however,  Cypriots  could  envi- 
sion a  greater  role  for  the  small  states  in  the  CSCE,  and  some  be- 
lieved that  the  CSCE's  expanded  conflict-mediation  role  might  have 
benefits  for  Cyprus.  The  Italian  proposal  for  a  southern  variant 
of  the  CSCE,  the  CSC -Mediterranean,  found  tentative  support 
from  both  Cypriot  communities. 


201 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Relations  with  Greece 

After  the  troubles  of  1963-64  and  the  effective  separation  of  the 
two  communities,  the  Greek  Cypriots  controlling  the  republic's  in- 
stitutions did  not,  ironically,  orient  their  foreign  policy  more  toward 
Greece.  Instead,  the  growing  authority  and  confidence  of  Presi- 
dent Makarios  and  divergent  trends  in  Greek  and  Greek  Cypriot 
politics  led  to  the  republic's  foreign  policy  becoming  more  indepen- 
dent. Greek  Cypriots  were  disappointed  that  Greece  had  placed 
the  interests  of  the  Western  alliance  above  those  of  the  island  in 
the  preindependence  London  and  Zurich  talks.  Greek  Cypriots  also 
viewed  as  inadequate  the  Greek  response  to  the  1963-64  troubles, 
with  Greece  again  deferring  to  NATO  interests. 

Relations  deteriorated  further  when  the  military  seized  power 
in  Athens  in  1967.  Makarios  was  anathema  to  the  staunchly  anti- 
communist  regime  in  Greece.  His  flirtation  with  Eastern  Europe 
and  Third  World  nations,  his  refusal  to  stem  criticism  of  the  dic- 
tatorship, and  his  charismatic  appeal  to  Greeks  everywhere  were 
major  concerns  of  the  new  Greek  leadership.  The  infiltration  of 
Greek  soldiers  from  the  mainland,  in  excess  of  levels  approved  in 
the  Treaty  of  Alliance,  became  a  threat  almost  equal  to  that  from 
the  Turkish  mainland.  By  the  early  1970s,  the  rift  between  the 
Athens  junta  and  the  Makarios  government  had  become  open. 
Athens  allegedly  financed  operations  of  anti-Makarios  organiza- 
tions and  newspapers  and  was  widely  thought  responsible  for  at- 
tempts on  Makarios's  life.  Pressures  mounted,  and  in  July  1974, 
after  Makarios  openly  challenged  the  junta's  interference,  the  Cypri- 
ot National  Guard,  led  by  Greek  officers,  staged  a  coup  that  ulti- 
mately resulted  in  Turkish  intervention  and  the  junta's  demise. 

With  the  1974  restoration  of  civilian  government  in  Athens  and 
the  environment  of  crisis  in  the  Greek- controlled  part  of  the  island 
after  the  Turkish  intervention,  relations  between  the  republic  and 
the  government  in  Greece  were  restored  to  normal.  Closer  coordi- 
nation of  foreign  policy  began,  particularly  focused  on  winning  sup- 
port for  resolutions  in  international  organizations  and  from  Greeks 
abroad.  Greece  gave  full  public  support  to  policies  adopted  by  the 
republic  and  pledged  not  to  interfere  in  domestic  Cypriot  politics. 
The  two  governments  agreed  that  Greek  Cypriot  participation  in 
settlement  efforts  was  essential  and  tried  to  uncouple  the  Cyprus 
issue  from  other  Greek-Turkish  disputes,  such  as  those  about  ter- 
ritorial rights  in  the  Aegean  Sea. 

Differences  remained  over  the  two  governments'  priorities.  Greek 
prime  minister  Constantinos  Karamanlis  was  said  to  favor  a  more 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


moderate  and  conciliatory  stand  on  Cyprus  than  either  Makarios 
or  Kyprianou,  both  of  whom  advocated  a  "long  struggle"  in  the 
face  of  what  they  perceived  as  Turkish  intransigence.  The  Greek 
government  was  also  eager  to  return  to  NATO,  which  it  did  in 
1981,  and  to  reduce  tensions  with  Turkey.  In  addition,  the  tripar- 
tite American-British-Canadian  plan  (the  ABC  plan)  of  1978  won 
Greece's  approval,  although  it  was  rejected  by  Greek  Cypriots  as 
a  framework  for  negotiations. 

When  Greeks  elected  the  socialist  government  of  Andreas  Papan- 
dreou  to  office  in  1981,  the  foreign  policy  of  Greece  shifted.  Less 
inclined  to  demonstrate  Greece's  loyalty  to  NATO  and  other 
Western  institutions,  Papandreou  sought  to  "internationalize"  the 
Cyprus  settlement  effort  and  took  a  more  confrontational  approach 
to  bilateral  differences  with  Turkey.  This  approach  led  to  a  new, 
and  sometimes  uneasy,  division  of  labor  between  Greece  and  the 
republic,  with  the  latter  engaged  in  intercommunal  talks  and  the 
former  raising  the  Turkish  troop  issue  in  NATO  and  other  inter- 
national forums.  Cyprus  was  relinked  to  bilateral  Greek-Turkish 
problems,  insofar  as  Papandreou  insisted  that  relations  between 
the  two  NATO  allies  could  not  improve  until  the  Cyprus  problem 
was  solved  and  Turkish  troops  withdrawn.  This  policy  was  tem- 
porarily suspended  in  early  1988,  when  Papandreou  and  Turkish 
prime  minister  Ozal  conducted  talks  known  as  the  Davos  process, 
aimed  at  improving  ties  through  Aegean  confidence-building  mea- 
sures. The  process  was  stalled  in  late  1988  by  political  and  health 
problems  of  the  Greek  premier.  For  most  of  1989  and  early  1990, 
Greece  was  ruled  by  interim  governments  that  took  no  new  for- 
eign policy  initiatives,  although  the  1988  election  of  the  activist 
George  Vassiliou  in  Cyprus  gave  some  new  vigor  and  interest  to 
the  frequent  consultations  in  Athens  between  the  two  governments. 

In  April  1990,  Greeks  returned  to  power  the  centrist  New 
Democracy  Party,  and  the  new  prime  minister,  veteran  politician 
Constantinos  Mitsotakis,  pledged  to  renew  Greece's  efforts  to  solve 
the  Cyprus  problem.  The  two  governments  formed  a  joint  com- 
mittee, administered  by  their  foreign  ministries,  to  share  informa- 
tion and  coordinate  policies  and  thus  avoid  the  strains  that  had 
arisen  from  divergent  approaches  to  the  Cyprus  problem. 

Relations  with  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union 

Cyprus  had  ambivalent  relations  with  the  superpowers  during 
the  Cold  War.  Despite  its  nonalignment,  the  cultural,  political, 
and  economic  orientation  of  Cyprus  was  to  the  West,  and  NATO 
allies  played  crucial  roles  in  the  achievement  of  Cyprus' s  inde- 
pendence, the  treaties  guaranteeing  that  independence,  and  the 


203 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

composition  of  the  UN  peace-keeping  force  that  was  on  the  island 
continuously  after  1964. 

Relations  with  the  United  States  after  the  1974  crisis  were  shaped 
by  Cypriot  convictions  that  the  United  States  had  been  too  close 
to  the  Greek  junta,  could  have  prevented  its  coup  against  Makarios, 
supported  or  acquiesced  in  the  Turkish  intervention,  and  gave  in- 
sufficient attention  to  solving  the  Cyprus  problem.  Relations  be- 
tween Cyprus  and  the  United  States  were  also  haunted  by  the  1974 
assassination  of  United  States  Ambassador  Roger  Davies  in  Nico- 
sia. Yet,  pressed  by  the  United  States  Congress  and  the  aroused 
Greek- American  community,  the  Nixon  and  Ford  administrations 
became  involved  in  refugee  resettlement  and  peace  talks  during 
the  1974  crisis  and  its  aftermath. 

As  the  Turkish  intervention  was  consolidated,  leading  to  a  long- 
term  division  of  the  island,  Greek  Cypriots  continued  to  have 
misgivings  about  the  strategic  intentions  of  United  States  policy. 
Cypriots  occasionally  pressed  for  new  American  initiatives,  although 
none  was  offered  after  the  1978  ABC  plan.  A  more  activist  Ameri- 
can policy  was  institutionalized  through  the  establishment  in  1981 
of  a  Special  Cyprus  Coordinator  in  the  Department  of  State.  The 
position  was  held  by  Reginald  Bartholemew  (1981-82),  Christian 
Chapman  (1982-83),  Richard  Haass  (1983-85),  James  Wilken- 
son  (1985-89),  and  Nelson  Ledsky  after  1989.  Yet  efforts  by  these 
diplomats  to  stimulate  discussion  about  confidence-building  mea- 
sures, intercommunal  projects  and  cooperation,  and  new  directions 
in  the  US$15  million  annual  aid  program  to  Cyprus  met  resistance 
from  the  republic's  government.  The  republic  looked  to  the  Unit- 
ed States  Congress  and  the  Greek-American  community  to  cor- 
rect what  they  considered  a  pro-Turkish  bias  in  United  States  policy. 

Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  were  more  distant  and  reflect- 
ed ups  and  downs  in  superpower  influence  in  the  Mediterranean 
and  in  United  States-Turkish  relations.  The  Soviets  had  support- 
ed the  Greek  Cypriot  position  after  1974  and  generally  pursued 
policies  that  fostered  strains  in  intra- NATO  relations.  They  worked 
with  the  island's  communist  party,  but  equally  well  with  the  cen- 
trist governments.  In  the  late  1970s,  the  Soviets  were  cooler  toward 
the  Greek  Cypriot  view  because  of  improved  relations  with  Tur- 
key. The  Soviets  under  Mikhail  Gorbachev  became  more  interested 
in  Cyprus  settlement  efforts.  In  1986  the  Soviets  outiined  their  policy 
for  a  Cyprus  settlement,  calling  for  a  withdrawal  of  all  foreign  troops 
and  bases  (presumably  including  the  British  sovereign  base  areas), 
a  demilitarization  of  the  island,  and  a  new  federal  government. 
Greek  Cypriots  welcomed  the  proposal,  although  in  subsequent 


204 


President  Vassiliou  with  President  George  Bush 
at  the  White  House,  1991 
Courtesy  The  White  House  (Susan  Biddle) 

months  it  was  interpreted  by  many  as  part  of  a  broad  Third  World- 
Soviet  public  relations  exercise  more  than  a  serious  diplomatic  in- 
itiative to  which  resources  would  be  devoted. 

Relations  with  the  European  Community 

As  Europe  moved  to  create  a  single  market  by  the  end  of  1992, 
the  European  Community  (EC — see  Glossary)  became  an  increas- 
ingly important  focus  of  Cypriot  foreign  policy.  Cyprus  became 
an  associate  member  of  the  EC  in  June  1973,  motivated  largely 
by  a  desire  to  maintain  its  major  trading  partnership  with  Britain. 
But  relations  with  Brussels  were  troubled  by  the  uncertainty  of  the 
political  situation  on  the  island  and  the  EC's  preference  for  avoid- 
ing entanglement  in  political  disputes.  EC  policy  throughout  the 
years  of  the  division  of  the  island  was  to  deal  with  the  republic 
government  as  the  legal  authority  but  at  the  same  time  to  state  that 
the  benefits  of  association  must  extend  to  the  entire  island  and  its 
population.  Cypriot  efforts  to  link  EC  aid  to  Turkey  to  progress 
on  a  Cyprus  settlement  were  unsuccessful,  although  the  European 
Parliament  passed  several  supportive  but  largely  symbolic  resolu- 
tions on  Cyprus  in  the  1980s. 


205 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


After  the  1988  election  of  George  Vassiliou,  in  an  era  of  revital- 
ized European  consciousness,  Cyprus' s  attention  to  the  EC  in- 
creased dramatically,  and  its  foreign  policy  became  more 
EC -oriented  and  focused  less  on  the  Third  World  and  the  NAM. 
On  July  4,  1990,  the  republic  formally  applied  for  full  EC  mem- 
bership. In  a  public  statement,  President  Vassiliou  said  that  Cyprus 
had  "  declared  its  European  orientation  and  its  desire  to  partici- 
pate as  actively  as  possible  and  on  an  equal  footing  with  the  other 
EC  member  states  in  the  historic  process  of  European  integration 
and  the  building  of  a  Common  European  House  of  peace,  cooper- 
ation and  prosperity." 

It  was  clear  that  the  membership  bid,  which  was  not  expected 
to  culminate  in  actual  accession  until  the  next  century,  was  strongly 
driven  by  the  settlement  process.  The  application  could  be  seen 
as  a  tactical  move  intended  to  give  new  momentum  and  new  in- 
centives to  the  Turkish  side  to  achieve  progress  in  talks.  For  Vas- 
siliou, the  EC  application  and  its  expected  decade-long  waiting 
period  were  an  opportunity.  He  hoped  that  the  EC  accession  time- 
table would  parallel  a  negotiation  timetable,  so  that  a  new  federal 
government  and  full  membership  in  the  EC  could  be  achieved  at 
the  same  time.  He  argued  that  the  benefits  of  EC  membership 
would  be  conferred  on  "all  Cypriots  without  exception."  Should 
settlement  talks  fail,  the  EC  application  would  serve  a  second  pur- 
pose, giving  Cyprus  a  framework  for  discussing  the  lack  of  progress 
with  its  EC  trading  partners. 

It  was  estimated  that  by  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  85  percent 
of  Greek  Cypriots  favored  full  EC  membership,  with  AKEL  the 
notable  exception.  The  Greek  Cypriot  parliament  pressured  Vas- 
siliou in  the  spring  of  1990  to  move  more  quickly  on  the  EC  issue. 
Some  Cypriots,  including  DISY  leader  Clerides  and  some  Vas- 
siliou supporters,  floated  the  proposal  to  have  Turkish  Cypriots 
participate  in  future  negotiations  with  Brussels,  although  such 
proposals,  without  more  formal  recognition  of  Turkish  Cypriot 
separate  political  rights,  appeared  doomed  to  failure. 

Other  Foreign  Policy  Concerns 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus  also  participated  in  foreign  policy  de- 
bates on  issues  of  broader  interest  to  Cyprus  as  a  small,  nonaligned 
country.  When  approached  by  its  Western  friends,  including  the 
United  States,  Cyprus  proved  a  reliable  and  effective  partner  in 
issues  of  common  concern,  such  as  antiterrorism  measures  and  con- 
trol of  illegal  narcotics,  and  it  became  increasingly  interested  in 
environmental  causes,  particularly  in  the  Mediterranean  region. 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


Cyprus  was  also  compelled  because  of  geographic  proximity  to 
address  the  Arab-Israeli  issue  and  the  Lebanon  crisis  that  plagued 
the  Middle  East  throughout  the  1980s.  The  island  was  occasion- 
ally touched  by  the  violence  of  these  disputes  when  Israeli  and 
Palestinian  commandos  carried  out  missions  against  each  other  in 
Cypriot  coastal  towns,  and  even  in  Nicosia.  For  the  most  part, 
Cyprus  remained  neutral,  allowing  the  island  to  be  the  meeting 
place  for  informal  diplomatic  encounters  between  Arabs  and  Is- 
raelis. Cyprus  had  active  trade  and  cultural  relations  with  Israel, 
and  a  fully  accredited  Israeli  Embassy  functioned  in  Nicosia.  At 
the  same  time,  Cyprus  supported  moderate  Palestinian  positions 
in  international  forums  and  sought  more  active  Arab  support  of 
its  position,  appealing  to  Arab  sentiment  over  what  it  saw  as  analo- 
gous situations  in  the  respective  Israeli  and  Turkish  occupations 
of  their  territories. 

The  "TRNC" 

Turkish  Cypriots  began  developing  a  rudimentary  foreign  poli- 
cy after  1963,  focused  mainly  on  public  relations  efforts  to  explain 
the  communal  perspective  on  the  island's  political  difficulties.  Two 
factors  constrained  the  development  of  a  Turkish  Cypriot  foreign 
policy.  First,  Turkish  Cypriots  lacked  the  personnel  and  resources 
to  project  themselves  on  the  world  scene.  Second,  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot administrations,  in  their  various  forms  since  1963,  lacked  in- 
ternational recognition  and  were  dependent  on  Turkey's  acting  as 
an  intermediary  to  international  opinion.  The  situation  changed 
gradually  after  1985,  although  Turkish  Cypriot  activism  in  for- 
eign policy  focused  on  expanding  trade  and  political  contact,  rather 
than  on  the  settlement  process.  The  view  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
government  was  that  less,  not  more,  international  attention  would 
help  a  Cyprus  settlement. 

Relations  with  Turkey 

As  was  the  case  with  Greek  Cypriots  and  their  mainland,  re- 
lations between  the  Turkish  Cypriots  and  Turkey  could  be  char- 
acterized as  close  and  cooperative,  although  many  observers 
detected  strains  barely  beneath  the  surface.  Turkey  usually  sup- 
ported Turkish  Cypriot  policies  in  their  broadest  sense,  although 
tactical  differences  often  occurred.  On  several  key  occasions  in  the 
UN  setdement  process,  Ankara  pressed  the  Turkish  Cypriot  govern- 
ment to  be  more  forthcoming.  From  1975  until  the  declaration  of 
the  "TRNC"  in  1983,  for  example,  it  was  reported  on  numerous 
occasions  that  Turkey  had  persuaded  Denkta§  to  delay  his  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence. 


207 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


The  main  institutional  vehicle  for  Turkish-Turkish  Cypriot 
cooperation  was  the  Coordination  Committee  (Koordinasyon 
Komitesi)  formed  in  the  1 960s  to  administer  the  extensive  economic 
relationship  between  the  two.  The  participants  in  these  coordina- 
tion activities,  which  became  more  ad  hoc  as  Turkish  Cypriot 
bureaucratic  competence  grew,  were  representatives  of  the  prime 
minister's  office  in  Turkey  and  a  collection  of  key  decision  makers 
from  the  Turkish  Cypriot  executive  branch.  From  1974  to  1983, 
coordination  was  close,  including  Turkish  participation  in  Turkish 
Cypriot  cabinet  meetings.  After  the  establishment  of  the  "TRNC," 
such  contact  was  replaced  with  more  formal  state-to-state  relations. 
Turkey  demonstrated  in  various  ways  its  recognition  of  the  separate- 
ness  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  political  entity,  although  opposition 
parties  and  many  observers  believed  that  the  Turkish  Embassy  in 
the  north  was  engaged  in  activities  beyond  the  normal  purview  of 
a  foreign  mission. 

The  economic  dimension  of  bilateral  relations  also  showed  its 
strains.  After  1974,  the  Turkish  contribution  to  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
budget  was  estimated  at  80  percent,  but  by  1990  that  subsidy  was 
reported  to  be  in  the  30  to  40  percent  range.  The  opposition  press 
in  Turkey  occasionally  complained  that  aid  and  assistance  to  north- 
ern Cyprus  were  an  economic  burden  on  Turkey,  whose  econom- 
ic performance  was  uneven  in  the  1980s.  For  their  part,  Turkish 
Cypriots  complained  of  inadequate  aid,  the  failure  as  of  late  1990 
to  establish  a  customs  union,  and  the  importation  of  Turkey's  eco- 
nomic problems,  most  notably  rampant  inflation  in  the  late  1970s 
and  again  in  the  late  1980s.  Relations  were  also  strained  by  social 
differences  between  mainland  settlers  and  the  higher  levels  of  edu- 
cation and  more  urban  and  secular  lifestyles  of  most  Turkish 
Cypriots. 

The  Quest  for  Recognition 

Most  Turkish  Cypriot  foreign  policy  efforts  focused  on  achiev- 
ing recognition  of  the  "TRNC"  and  explaining  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
position  on  the  settlement  process.  The  "TRNC"  had  one  em- 
bassy, in  Ankara,  two  consulates,  in  Istanbul  and  Mersin,  and  five 
representation  missions,  in  London,  Washington,  New  York,  Brus- 
sels, and  Islamabad.  These  missions  did  not  have  diplomatic  sta- 
tus. In  1990  there  were  reports  that  additional  missions  might  be 
opened  in  Abu  Dhabi,  Canada,  Australia,  Italy,  and  Germany. 

The  Islamic  nations  were  the  key  target  of  Turkish  Cypriot  recog- 
nition efforts.  In  wooing  Islamic  support,  Turkish  Cypriot  officials 
emphasized  the  religious  aspect  of  the  Cyprus  conflict  and  stressed 
the  importance  of  Muslim  solidarity.  Meetings  of  the  Organization 


208 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC),  in  which  Turkey  played  an  in- 
creasingly active  role  in  the  1980s,  were  an  important  focus  for 
the  "TRNC."  The  OIC  passed  several  resolutions  urging  economic 
support  and  cultural  contact  with  the  Turkish  Cypriots  but  stopped 
short  of  embracing  the  recognition  issue.  Many  Arab  Islamic  coun- 
tries had  ambivalent  relations  with  Turkey  because  of  the  legacy 
of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  and  also  because  they  wished  to  maintain 
good  relations  with  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  which  served  as  a  finan- 
cial center  and  entrepot  for  Middle  Eastern  business  activity.  These 
reservations  hindered  the  "TRNC"  in  its  attempt  to  achieve  its 
goals  in  the  Islamic  world.  Among  these  countries,  Pakistan,  Jor- 
dan, and  Bangladesh  were  considered  the  strongest  supporters  of 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  cause. 

*    *  * 

The  literature  on  Cyprus  in  the  decade  of  the  1 980s  concentrat- 
ed heavily  on  the  intercommunal  talks  and  UN  efforts  to  settle  the 
island's  political  dispute.  There  was  little  scholarly  or  journalistic 
coverage  of  the  politics  of  the  two  communities  separate  from  the 
politics  of  the  settlement  question.  Nonetheless,  elections  in  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus  and  in  the  "TRNC"  provided  opportunities 
to  examine  more  closely  the  players  and  the  political  dynamics  in 
each  community.  One  particularly  useful  journalistic  account  is 
the  1990  New  Yorker  article  by  Mary  Anne  Weaver,  reviewing  the 
evolution  of  views  in  both  communities  and  describing  vividly  the 
political  and  diplomatic  atmosphere  on  the  island.  Also  of  note  is 
Robert  McDonald's  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies 
monograph,  The  Problem  of  Cyprus,  published  in  1989.  Other  major 
sources  of  information  on  settlement  positions  are  official  newslet- 
ters and  fact  sheets.  The  Embassy  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  in 
Washington  publishes  a  monthly  bulletin  that  carefully  tracks 
government  positions  and  occasionally  features  information  on 
domestic  politics.  The  Washington  office  of  the  "TRNC"  represen- 
tative also  distributes  occasional  fact  sheets  and  position  papers. 
Hearings  and  reports  of  the  United  States  Congress  are  informa- 
tive on  the  debate  between  Congress  and  the  executive  over  Unit- 
ed States  policy  on  Cyprus  and  on  United  States  perceptions  of 
the  status  of  settlement  efforts.  Such  documents  can  be  purchased 
from  the  United  States  Government  Printing  Office. 

Several  books,  including  edited  volumes  of  articles  on  Cyprus, 
were  published  in  the  1980s,  providing  different  perspectives  on 
the  situation  and  on  prospects  for  a  settlement.  Cyprus  in  Transi- 
tion, 1960-1985,  edited  by  John  T.A.  Koumoulides,  contains  several 


209 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

retrospective  articles,  mostly  from  the  perspectives  of  outside  players 
in  Cypriot  affairs:  the  United  Kingdom,  the  United  States,  the 
United  Nations,  and  others.  The  Canadian  Institute  for  Interna- 
tional Peace  and  Security  published  in  1991  a  volume  of  articles 
from  a  workshop  series  on  conflict  resolution  on  Cyprus.  The 
volume  reviews  the  positions  of  external  players  as  well  as  Cypri- 
ots  and  contains  several  useful  chapters  by  Cypriots  discussing 
confidence-building  measures  and  cultural  and  sociological  factors 
in  settlement  efforts.  Tozun  Bahcheli's  Greek-Turkish  Relations  since 
1955  also  contains  useful  coverage  of  the  Cyprus  issue  in  its  for- 
eign policy  dimensions. 

Because  of  the  importance  of  legal  and  constitutional  aspects  in 
a  settlement,  lawyers  and  legal  officials  from  both  communities  have 
published  books  on  these  issues.  Polyvios  G.  Polyviou's  Cyprus:  In 
Search  of  a  Constitution  examines  the  legal  and  political  aspects  of 
the  constitution  that  Greek  Cypriots  still  support.  Zaim  M. 
Necatigil,  the  attorney  general  of  the  "TRNC,"  has  published  two 
books  that  provide  the  Turkish  Cypriot  perspective  on  these  mat- 
ters: The  Cyprus  Conflict:  A  Lawyer's  View  (1981),  and  The  Cyprus 
Question  and  the  Turkish  Position  in  International  Law  (1989).  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


210 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Paphos  Castle,  partially  rebuilt  by  the  Turks  in  the  late 
sixteenth  century  after  destruction  by  the  Venetians  of  the 
original  fourteenth- century  fortification 


THE  MANY  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN  walled  fortresses  that 
dot  the  landscape  of  Cyprus  attest  to  the  island's  long  history  of 
armed  conflict.  Valuable  minerals  and  forest  products  and  the  is- 
land's strategic  location  along  trade  routes  between  Europe  and 
the  Middle  East  have  made  Cyprus  the  object  of  repeated  occupa- 
tions by  the  region's  dominant  military  powers  since  the  second 
millennium  B.C.  (see  The  Ancient  Period,  ch.  1). 

The  competing  interests  of  Greece  and  Turkey  in  Cyprus — freed 
from  British  rule  in  1960 — have  deeply  affected  the  country's  na- 
tional security  in  the  modern  period.  Competition  between  the  two 
outside  powers  fueled  intercommunal  strife  between  Greek  and 
Turkish  Cypriots  and  subversive  acts  against  President  Archbishop 
Makarios  III.  Greek  military  personnel  attached  to  the  Cypriot  Na- 
tional Guard  supported  the  campaign  against  Makarios,  which  cul- 
minated in  the  coup  d'etat  of  July  1974  and  the  subsequent  Turkish 
military  intervention  and  occupation  of  37  percent  of  the  island. 
The  events  of  July- August  1974  further  strained  relations  between 
the  two  nations  that  form  the  southeastern  flank  of  the  North  At- 
lantic Treaty  Organization  (NATO),  endangering  Western  secu- 
rity in  the  region. 

The  Zurich- London  agreements,  signed  in  London  on  Febru- 
ary 19,  1959,  provided  legitimacy  to  actions  taken  jointly  or  in- 
dividually by  Greece  and  Turkey,  as  well  as  by  Britain,  to  uphold 
the  constitution  of  the  new  island  nation.  In  the  ensuing  years, 
however,  the  rights  spelled  out  in  the  constitution  were  often  abused 
or  misapplied.  For  example,  the  bicommunal  Cyprus  Army  provid- 
ed for  in  the  agreements  never  materialized;  rather,  each  ethnic 
community  created  its  own  military  force,  trained,  armed,  and  par- 
tially staffed  by  personnel  from  the  mainland.  Both  Greece  and 
Turkey  intervened  in  Cypriot  affairs  in  a  manner  that  went  well 
beyond  their  legitimate  security  roles,  and  Britain  for  the  most  part 
simply  stood  aside. 

The  events  of  1974  have  resulted  in  a  de  facto  partition  of  the 
island  into  segregated  Greek  and  Turkish  communities  with  siz- 
able opposing  forces  in  close  proximity.  More  than  two  Turkish 
Army  divisions  in  the  north  alleviated  fears  of  the  Turkish  Cypri- 
ot minority  that  its  physical  safety  was  threatened  by  intercom- 
munal violence.  Although  the  strong  Turkish  military  presence  was 
a  source  of  insecurity  for  the  Greek  Cypriot  community,  as  of  1990 
the  Turkish  forces  had  shown  no  further  territorial  ambitions  since 


213 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


the  1974  cease-fire.  During  the  late  1980s,  the  Greek  Cypriot  Na- 
tional Guard  began  to  strengthen  and  modernize  its  armored  units 
and  air  defenses  to  reduce  the  margin  of  Turkish  superiority. 
Demonstrations  by  Greek  Cypriot  women  sometimes  crossed  into 
the  buffer  zone,  leading  to  confrontations  with  Turkish  troops  and 
introducing  an  element  of  potential  instability. 

Greek  Cypriots  saw  the  large  Turkish  Army  contingent  on  Cyprus 
as  an  alien  force  distorting  the  community's  balance.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  growing  strength  of  the  National  Guard  was  regarded 
by  Turkish  Cypriots  as  a  threat  justifying  the  retention  of  Turkish 
forces.  Nevertheless,  as  of  1990  the  military  position  seemed  a  stale- 
mate, furthered  by  the  continued  presence  (since  early  1964)  of 
United  Nations  (UN)  peace-keeping  troops.  Numerous  rounds  of 
bilateral  and  UN-sponsored  talks  had  failed  to  reduce  the  military 
confrontation,  an  essential  step  in  any  political  settlement. 

The  Cyprus  Conflict 

The  Struggle  for  Independence 

The  roots  of  the  Cyprus  conflict  lie  in  the  striving  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  majority  for  unification,  or  enosis,  with  Greece,  an  idea 
that  emerged  during  the  Greek  War  of  Independence  in  the  1820s 
and  developed  under  British  colonial  rule  (see  British  Rule,  ch. 
1).  Popular  sentiment  for  enosis,  joined  with  resentment  of  Brit- 
ish tax  policies,  ignited  in  1931  in  a  brief  but  widespread  uprising. 
During  the  uprising,  the  British  Government  House  in  Nicosia  was 
burned,  6  Cypriots  were  killed,  and  2,000  were  arrested  by  Brit- 
ish authorities.  From  then  on,  enosis  became  more  popular  in  the 
Greek  Cypriot  community;  however,  a  clampdown  on  Cypriot  po- 
litical activity  and  the  exigencies  of  World  War  II  precluded  any 
violent  manifestation  for  twenty-four  years. 

The  barely  suppressed  desire  for  enosis  erupted  on  April  1 ,  1955, 
when  bombs  destroyed  the  transmitter  of  the  Cyprus  broadcast- 
ing station  and  exploded  at  British  Army  and  police  installations 
in  Nicosia,  Limassol,  Famagusta,  and  Larnaca.  The  explosions 
signaled  the  beginning  of  a  guerrilla  war  against  the  British  colonial 
administration  that  was  to  continue  for  four  years  and  claim  some 
600  lives.  The  Greek  Cypriots  fought  under  the  banner  of  the  Na- 
tional Organization  of  Cypriot  Fighters  (Ethniki  Organosis  Kyprion 
Agoniston — EOKA),  led  by  Colonel  (later  General)  George  Gri- 
vas.  Although  EOKA  included  only  a  few  hundred  active  guerril- 
las, it  enjoyed  wide  support  in  the  Greek  Cypriot  community  and 
was  able  to  keep  about  10,000  British  soldiers  occupied. 


214 


National  Security 


However,  when  EOKA  called  a  cease-fire  in  March  1959,  after 
the  signing  in  February  of  the  agreements  that  led  to  Cypriot  in- 
dependence, it  could  claim  only  partial  success.  The  Cypriot  tie 
to  Britain  was  broken  sooner  than  it  would  have  been  without  the 
guerrilla  struggle,  but  EOKA's  goal  of  enosis  remained  unmet. 

For  members  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  minority,  who  regarded 
Turkey  as  their  motherland,  enosis  would  have  meant  becoming 
a  much  smaller  minority  within  the  Greek  nation.  In  the  mid-1950s, 
Turkish  Cypriots  responded  to  the  growth  of  EOKA  with  the  for- 
mation of  their  own  paramilitary  organization,  Volkan  (volcano), 
which  later  became  the  Turkish  Resistance  Organization  (Turk 
Mukavemet  Te§kilati — TMT).  British  authorities  also  armed  a 
paramilitary  police  force  composed  entirely  of  Turkish  Cypriots, 
the  Mobile  Reserve,  to  help  combat  terrorism.  The  intense  inter- 
communal  violence  of  1958  implanted  a  bitterness  in  both  ethnic 
communities  and  foreshadowed  postindependence  strife  that  would 
tear  the  young  nation  apart. 

Three  interrelated  treaties  in  February  1959,  and  the  subsequent 
adoption  of  a  constitution,  resulted  in  Cyprus 's  gaining  its  indepen- 
dence on  August  19,  1960.  Under  the  Treaty  of  Establishment, 
Britain  retained  sovereign  rights  over  two  areas  to  be  used  as  mili- 
tary bases.  The  Treaty  of  Alliance  stipulated  that  contingents  of 
950  Greek  troops  and  650  Turkish  troops  were  to  provide  for  the 
defense  of  the  island  and  train  a  new  Cypriot  army.  Under  the 
Treaty  of  Guarantee,  in  the  event  of  a  threat  to  the  established 
political  arrangements  of  Cyprus,  the  treaty's  signatories,  Greece, 
Turkey,  and  Britain,  were  to  consult  on  appropriate  measures  to 
safeguard  or  restore  them;  the  signatories  were  granted  the  right 
to  intervene  together  or,  if  concerted  action  proved  impossible,  to 
act  unilaterally  to  uphold  the  settlement.  These  elaborate  arrange- 
ments came  to  provide  the  pretexts  for  repeated  foreign  interven- 
tion that  severely  undermined  Cypriot  security  and  for  Turkey's 
unilateral  military  action  in  1974,  which  led  to  the  de  facto  parti- 
tion of  the  island. 

Intercommunal  Violence,  1963-67 

Three  years  of  peace  followed  Cypriot  independence  in  1960. 
Beneath  the  peace,  however,  lay  the  resentment  of  some  Greek 
Cypriots  at  the  prevention  of  enosis  and  a  growing  conflict  between 
Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots  over  the  bicommunal  provisions  of 
the  constitution.  The  Cyprus  Army,  which  was  to  consist  of  1,200 
Greek  Cypriots  and  800  Turkish  Cypriots,  never  materialized  be- 
cause of  differences  over  the  six-to-four  formula  for  integrating  the 
force.  EOKA  had  officially  disbanded  and  surrendered  its  weapons 


215 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

in  1959,  and  Grivas  had  returned  to  Greece.  In  fact,  however,  many 
former  EOKA  members  had  retained  their  weapons,  and  some 
joined  groups  of  armed  irregulars.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  commu- 
nity responded  to  the  growth  of  these  groups  by  reviving  the  TMT 
in  early  1962.  These  forces  received  arms  and  assistance  from  the 
Greek  and  Turkish  contingents  assigned  to  the  island. 

In  late  November  1963,  the  president,  Archbishop  Makarios, 
introduced  a  thirteen-point  proposal  to  amend  the  constitution  in 
a  way  that  would  ensure  the  dominance  of  Greek  Cypriots  (see 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  ch.  1).  In  the  tense  atmosphere  that  ensued, 
a  street  brawl  broke  out  on  December  2 1  in  Nicosia  between  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  and  Greek  Cypriot  police.  This  fight  was  followed  by 
major  attacks  by  Greek  Cypriot  irregulars  in  Nicosia  and  Larna- 
ca.  Looting  and  destruction  of  Turkish  villages  forced  many  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  to  withdraw  into  defensible  enclaves  guarded  by  the 
TMT  paramilitary.  Fearful  that  Turkey  might  carry  out  its  threat 
to  invade,  Makarios  agreed  to  British  intervention  from  its  bases 
on  the  island.  On  December  27,  British  troops  assumed  positions 
between  opposing  irregular  units,  and  the  fighting,  which  had 
claimed  100  lives  on  each  side  during  the  previous  week,  subsided 
temporarily.  The  cease-fire  held  in  Nicosia,  but  by  mid- February 
1964  Greek  Cypriot  attacks  at  Limassol  brought  a  renewed  threat 
of  Turkish  landings.  Britain  appealed  to  the  UN  Security  Coun- 
cil, and  on  March  4,  1964,  the  UN  approved  a  resolution  to  es- 
tablish an  international  peace-keeping  force  for  duty  in  Cyprus. 
Contingents  from  Canada,  Denmark,  Finland,  Ireland,  and 
Sweden  joined  the  British  soldiers  already  in  place;  together  they 
made  up  the  6,500-member  United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force 
in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP).  The  force  was  still  present  on  the  island, 
though  at  much  reduced  strength,  a  quarter  of  a  century  later  (see 
United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus,  this  ch.). 

In  June  1964,  the  National  Guard  was  formed  by  the  Greek 
Cypriot  government,  which  also  instituted  male  conscription.  The 
National  Guard  absorbed  the  various  private  armies  into  a  single 
national  military  force  loyal  to  the  government  and  served  as  a  de- 
terrent to  a  Turkish  invasion.  Greek  Army  soldiers  were  clandes- 
tinely transferred  to  the  guard  on  a  large  scale;  by  mid- summer 
the  National  Guard  consisted  of  an  estimated  24,000  officers  and 
men,  about  half  from  the  Greek  Army.  Grivas,  thought  to  be  the 
only  man  who  could  enforce  discipline  over  the  disparate  armed 
Greek  Cypriot  factions,  returned  from  Athens  to  command  the  Na- 
tional Guard. 

Meanwhile,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community,  in  its  newly  created 
enclaves,  organized  militarily  under  the  TMT,  supported  by 


216 


National  Security 


conscription  of  Turkish  Cypriot  youths.  Turkish  Army  troops 
trained  the  Turkish  Cypriot  forces,  totaling  an  estimated  10,000 
fighters,  and  directed  the  defense  of  the  enclaves.  Outbreaks  of  fight- 
ing continued,  although  the  presence  of  UNFICYP  prevented  them 
from  erupting  into  major  hostilities.  In  August  1964,  the  National 
Guard  carried  out  a  coordinated  sea  and  land  assault  against  Kok- 
kina  on  the  northwest  coast  in  an  effort  to  cut  off  the  major  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  supply  line  to  the  mainland.  Heavy  attacks  by  Turkish 
jet  fighter-bombers,  operating  beyond  the  range  of  the  Greek  Air 
Force,  halted  the  Greek  Cypriot  offensive.  Several  years  of  peace 
followed,  while  the  two  communities  improved  their  military 
readiness. 

In  November  1967,  units  of  the  National  Guard,  at  the  instiga- 
tion of  Grivas,  launched  a  massive  artillery  assault  on  two  Turk- 
ish Cypriot  villages  following  a  dispute  over  police  patrols.  The 
crisis  was  defused  when  United  States  mediation  brought  an  agree- 
ment that  endured  for  the  next  seven  years:  all  foreign  troops  in 
excess  of  those  permitted  by  the  Treaty  of  Alliance  were  to  be  re- 
moved from  Cyprus,  and  the  National  Guard  was  to  be  disman- 
tled in  exchange  for  an  immediate  Turkish  demobilization.  Grivas 
was  recalled  to  Athens,  along  with  about  10,000  of  the  Greek  troops 
assigned  to  the  National  Guard.  The  National  Guard,  however, 
was  not  dissolved. 

Conflict  Within  the  Greek  Cypriot  Community,  1967-74 

During  the  next  seven  years,  events  in  Cyprus  were  shaped  by 
the  differences  over  enosis  that  arose  between  Makarios  and  the 
military  government  that  was  installed  in  Greece  after  a  coup  d'etat 
in  1967.  Convinced  of  Turkey's  willingness  to  use  its  superior  force 
to  prevent  enosis,  Makarios  began  to  seek  support  among  Greek 
Cypriots — especially  those  in  the  communist  party — who  rejected 
enosis,  at  least  for  the  near  future,  in  favor  of  an  independent, 
nonaligned  Cyprus  (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4).  Because 
Makarios  had  decided  enosis  was  no  longer  possible  in  the  short 
term,  more  adamant  pro-enosis  Cypriot  groups  and  anticommunist 
Greek  officers,  both  of  which  infiltrated  the  National  Guard  dur- 
ing the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s,  would  subvert  his  government 
increasingly  after  1967  and  finally  overthrow  him  in  1974. 

Makarios  failed  in  his  efforts  to  limit  the  autonomy  of  the  Na- 
tional Guard,  which,  under  the  influence  of  right-wing  Greek 
officers,  remained  attached  to  enosis  and  bitterly  opposed  to  Makari- 
os's  political  association  with  the  communist  party.  Compulsory 
military  service  for  all  Greek  Cypriot  males — for  a  period  that  in- 
creased from  six  months  to  two  years  during  the  1960s — allowed 


217 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


the  arming  and  training  of  a  great  number  of  men,  many  of  whom 
subsequently  took  up  arms  against  the  government.  Between  1969 
and  1971,  several  groups  embarked  on  a  renewed  terrorist  cam- 
paign for  enosis.  Grivas  returned  clandestinely  to  Cyprus  some- 
time in  the  late  summer  or  early  fall  of  1971  and  set  up  a  new 
guerrilla  organization,  the  National  Organization  of  Cypriot  Fight- 
ers B  (Ethniki  Organosis  Kyprion  Agoniston  B — EOKA  B).  Most 
members  of  the  terrorist  movement  held  regular  jobs  in  the  Greek 
Cypriot  community;  half  were  police  officials  and  members  of  the 
National  Guard. 

There  was  also  considerable  evidence  of  support  of  EOKA  B  ac- 
tivities by  the  Greek  junta,  whose  hostility  to  Makarios  became 
increasingly  apparent  during  the  early  1970s.  The  junta  was  be- 
lieved to  be  involved  in  several  attempts  on  the  life  of  President 
Makarios.  In  March  1970,  Makarios  narrowly  escaped  death  when 
his  helicopter  was  shot  down.  Makarios  walked  away  from  the  crash, 
but  his  pilot  was  killed.  Former  minister  of  interior  Polykarpos 
Georkajis,  in  contact  with  local  right-wing  groups  and  the  junta 
in  Athens,  was  thought  to  be  implicated,  and  was  assassinated  short- 
ly afterward.  A  paramilitary  presidential  guard  loyal  to  Makarios, 
called  the  Tactical  Police  Reserve,  was  organized  in  1972.  Con- 
sisting of  fewer  than  1,000  men,  the  Tactical  Police  Reserve  suc- 
ceeded in  arresting  large  numbers  of  EOKA  B  guerrillas.  In  a 
further  attempt  to  bring  subversive  forces  under  control,  Makarios 
dismissed  many  National  Guard  and  police  officers  suspected  of 
EOKA  B  activity. 

With  the  death  of  Grivas  from  a  heart  attack  in  January  1974, 
EOKA  B  came  more  direcdy  under  the  control  of  the  military  junta 
in  Athens,  which,  after  a  change  of  leadership,  was  even  more 
hostile  to  Makarios.  The  archbishop,  however,  saw  the  Greek- 
officered  National  Guard  as  a  more  serious  threat  to  his  govern- 
ment than  EOKA  B.  In  a  letter  to  the  Greek  president  in  early 
July,  he  accused  the  junta  of  attempting  to  subvert  the  government 
of  Cyprus  through  the  Greek  officers  of  the  National  Guard,  who 
in  turn  supported  the  terrorist  activities  of  EOKA  B.  Makarios 
demanded  immediate  removal  of  the  650  Greek  officers  staffing 
the  National  Guard  and  their  replacement  by  100  instructors  who 
would  help  reorganize  the  Greek  Cypriot  force. 

The  reply  to  the  Makarios  challenge  came  on  July  1 5  in  the  form 
of  a  coup  d'etat  led  by  Greek  officers  in  the  National  Guard,  under 
orders  from  Athens.  The  fierce  fighting  that  broke  out  resulted  in 
casualties  estimated  at  over  500,  but  the  lightly  armed  Tactical 
Police  Reserve  and  irregular  pro-Makarios  units  were  no  match 
for  the  heavily  armed  National  Guardsmen  and  the  EOKA  B 


218 


National  Security 


irregulars.  Narrowly  escaping  capture  when  the  presidential  palace 
was  bombarded,  Makarios  was  flown  to  London  from  the  Sover- 
eign Base  Area  at  Akrotiri.  Former  EOKA  gunman  and  convict- 
ed murderer  Nicos  Sampson,  notorious  for  his  brutality  in  the  1950s 
and  1960s,  was  proclaimed  president.  As  Makarios  had  foreseen, 
but  the  Greek  military  leaders  had  not,  Turkey  reacted  forcibly 
to  the  coup  by  landing  a  large  number  of  troops  on  the  northern 
coast  of  Cyprus.  As  a  result,  both  the  insurrectionary  government 
in  Cyprus  and  the  military  dictatorship  in  Greece  fell  from  power. 

The  Turkish  Military  Intervention,  July-August  1974 

Citing  the  Treaty  of  Guarantee  as  the  basis  for  its  action,  Tur- 
key launched  its  seaborne  assault  west  of  Kyrenia  on  July  20,  1974. 
About  6,000  men  participated  in  the  landing  force,  which  was  fol- 
lowed shortly  afterward  by  about  1 ,000  paratroopers  dropped  north 
of  Nicosia.  Turkish  Cypriot  irregulars  joined  the  Turkish  regu- 
lars in  both  areas,  but  they  faced  fierce  opposition  from  the  Na- 
tional Guard.  Kyrenia  did  not  come  under  Turkish  control  until 
heavy  sea  and  air  bombardment  drove  out  Greek  Cypriot  troops 
on  the  third  day  of  fighting.  Meanwhile,  Turkish  Cypriot  enclaves 
throughout  the  southern  part  of  the  island  fell  to  Greek  Cypriot 
forces.  Only  in  Nicosia  was  the  Turkish  Cypriot  enclave  success- 
fully defended  by  TMT  irregulars,  with  the  aid  of  the  Turkish  Air 
Force. 

When  a  UN-imposed  cease-fire  took  effect  on  July  22,  Turkish 
troops  held  a  triangular  area  in  northern  Cyprus,  with  Kyrenia 
in  the  center  of  its  base  along  the  coast  and  northern  Nicosia  at 
its  apex.  Clear  Turkish  superiority  in  personnel  and  equipment 
deterred  Greek  leaders  from  intervening.  Nearly  half  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  population  lay  outside  the  occupied  area,  in  enclaves  now 
controlled  by  the  National  Guard.  During  the  next  three  weeks, 
while  foreign  ministers  from  Britain,  Greece,  and  Turkey  met  in 
Geneva,  Turkish  troops  continued  to  seize  control  of  areas  out- 
side the  cease-fire  lines,  broadening  the  triangle  under  their  occu- 
pation. Their  troop  strength  was  augmented  through  the  Kyrenia 
bridgehead  to  some  40,000  soldiers  and  200  tanks. 

On  August  14,  immediately  upon  the  breakup  of  the  second 
round  of  Geneva  talks,  two  divisions  of  the  Turkish  Army  advanced 
beyond  their  cease-fire  positions.  During  the  three-day  offensive, 
Greek  Cypriot  resistance  crumpled  under  heavy  air,  armor,  and 
artillery  bombardment.  Civilians,  alarmed  by  reports  of  atrocities 
during  the  first  Turkish  campaign,  fled  ahead  of  the  advancing 
troops,  who  proceeded  unimpeded  through  much  of  northern 
Cyprus.  By  August  16,  the  Turkish  advance  had  reached  the 


219 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  10.  Nicosia  and  the  Green  Line 

predetermined  "Attila  Line,"  behind  which  troops  occupied  37 
percent  of  Cypriot  territory,  and  Turkey  ordered  a  cease-fire  (see 
fig.  1).  Although  authoritative  figures  on  casualties  were  not  pub- 
lished, it  was  estimated  that  Greek  Cypriot  forces  suffered  6,000 
casualties,  and  Turkish-led  forces  lost  1,500  dead  and  2,000 
wounded. 

De  Facto  Partition,  1974- 

About  180,000  people,  an  estimated  one-third  of  the  population 
of  Cyprus,  became  refugees  during  the  fighting.  The  buffer  zone 
between  the  two  cease-fire  lines  occupied  by  UNFICYP  marked 
the  almost  total  segregation  of  the  Greek  and  Turkish  ethnic  com- 
munities. At  first,  tensions  were  high  along  the  buffer  zone,  which 


220 


National  Security 


extended  for  180  kilometers  across  the  island  and  was  in  most  places 
3-7  kilometers  wide  (although  as  narrow  as  20  meters  in  the  center 
of  Nicosia)  (see  fig.  10).  Sporadic  exchanges  of  gunfire  across  the 
lines  and  infiltrations  by  Turkish  patrols  gradually  subsided.  By 
the  close  of  1978,  the  UN  reported  that  the  cease-fire  lines  were 
almost  completely  stabilized.  During  most  of  the  1980s,  cease-fire 
violations  were  confined  mostly  to  occasional  incidents  of  misbe- 
havior by  individual  soldiers. 

All  but  a  few  hundred  Greek  Cypriots  fled  from  the  Turkish- 
occupied  area  in  the  north  or  were  induced  to  leave  in  the  period 
following  the  1974  fighting.  As  of  late  1989,  only  611  Greek  Cypriots 
lived  under  Turkish  occupation,  almost  all  of  them  in  the  Karpas 
Peninsula.  A  further  276  Maronites  were  in  the  north.  Only  about 
100  Turkish  Cypriots  remained  in  the  south.  Turkish  soldiers  who 
had  fought  on  Cyprus  were  allowed  to  settie  with  their  families  and 
given  homes.  In  addition,  a  significant  number  of  immigrants  from 
Turkey  had  been  allowed  to  settle  in  the  north.  Both  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  refugees  from  the  south  and  the  settlers  from  Turkey  were 
granted  homes  and  property  abandoned  by  Greek  Cypriots.  The 
presence  of  Turkish  immigrants,  the  appropriation  of  property, 
and  the  fate  of  more  than  1,600  Greek  Cypriots  missing  since  the 
1974  fighting  complicated  the  prospects  of  a  settlement  to  end  the 
division  of  the  island.  Beginning  in  1976,  a  succession  of  low-  and 
high-level  meetings,  intercommunal  talks,  and  talks  initiated  by 
the  UN  secretary  general  led  to  progress  on  some  issues  but,  as 
of  late  1990,  had  failed  to  achieve  a  political  solution  (see  Search 
for  a  New  Political  Formula,  ch.  4). 

Problems  of  Internal  Security 

There  has  been  little  political  violence  in  Cyprus  since  the  Turk- 
ish invasion  of  1974.  Violence  on  behalf  of  enosis,  which  had  been 
prevalent  from  1955  until  the  invasion,  was  rejected  by  the  vast 
majority  of  Greek  Cypriots  after  1974,  although  union  with  Greece 
continued  to  command  strong  emotional  appeal  in  the  right  wing. 
Moreover,  Turkish  troops  acted  as  a  deterrent  against  terrorist  oper- 
ations aimed  against  the  Turkish  presence  or  threatening  change 
in  the  status  quo.  Turkish  sources  have  claimed  that  the  Republic 
of  Cyprus  supplied  arms  and  possibly  even  guerrilla- warfare  train- 
ing to  Kurdish  and  Armenian  opponents  of  the  Turkish  govern- 
ment at  secret  camps  in  the  Troodos  Mountains.  Such  allegations 
have  been  rejected  by  the  Greek  Cypriot  authorities,  however,  and 
most  observers  thought  it  unlikely  that  such  activities  could  be  car- 
ried out  clandestinely.  Nonetheless,  leaders  of  the  Kurdish  rebels 
had  been  received  officially  by  members  of  the  Cyprus  House  of 


221 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Representatives,  and  a  former  head  of  the  National  Guard  had 
reportedly  visited  training  camps  for  Kurdish  guerrillas  in  Syria. 

EOKA  B  became  a  factor  of  diminishing  importance  after  its 
role  in  the  coup  of  July  1974,  although  it  continued  to  be  involved 
in  some  violence  against  the  Makarios  government.  Fears  that  the 
organization  might  conduct  a  terrorist  campaign  against  Turkish 
occupation  in  the  north  never  materialized.  Many  former  EOKA 
B  activists  accepted  an  offer  of  amnesty  from  Makarios.  However, 
several  dozen  of  the  most  extreme  leaders,  including  Nicos  Samp- 
son, were  arrested  and  imprisoned.  A  law  enacted  in  1977  provid- 
ed the  basis  for  purging  EOKA  B  members  from  the  public  service, 
the  police,  and  the  National  Guard.  In  early  1978,  the  group  an- 
nounced its  formal  dissolution.  During  the  1980s,  there  was  no  fur- 
ther EOKA  B  activity,  although  veterans  of  the  group  came  together 
periodically  on  patriotic  occasions,  as  did  other  disbanded  paramili- 
tary groups.  Sampson  returned  to  Cyprus  from  exile  in  June  1990, 
but  was  immediately  arrested  by  the  Greek  Cypriot  police. 

The  danger  of  intercommunal  violence  was  greatly  reduced  by 
the  buffer  provided  by  UNFICYP.  It  was  feared  initially  that  refu- 
gees from  the  north  after  the  Turkish  intervention  in  1974  might 
resort  to  arms  in  an  effort  to  regain  lost  houses  and  property.  The 
rapid  recovery  of  the  economy  in  southern  Cyprus,  coupled  with 
large  amounts  of  international  aid,  enabled  the  refugees  to  be  ac- 
commodated and  absorbed  by  the  community.  Although  perma- 
nent housing  had  by  1990  been  provided  for  all  of  the  refugees, 
many  still  wished  to  return  to  their  homes;  this  desire  was  a  source 
of  emotion  and  tension,  but  not  of  significant  violence. 

Beginning  in  1987,  a  series  of  demonstrations  known  as  the 
Women's  Walk  Home  were  carried  out  by  Greek  Cypriot  women 
trying  to  force  their  way  into  Turkish-controlled  territory.  For  the 
most  part,  the  women  were  turned  back  without  casualties  by 
UNFICYP  and  Turkish  security  personnel  after  entering  the  buffer 
zone  and  sometimes  advancing  a  few  meters  into  the  Turkish- 
occupied  north.  The  most  serious  incident  occurred  in  July  1989, 
when  about  1,000  women  and  religious  leaders,  some  displaying 
Greek  flags  and  spearheaded  by  a  group  of  men  who  pushed  aside 
barriers,  crossed  the  buffer  zone  without  interference  from  the  Greek 
Cypriot  police.  More  than  100  were  arrested  by  Turkish  Cypriot 
forces,  and  some  women  were  injured  in  scuffling.  The  arrested 
women  were  released  within  a  few  days,  but  ten  men,  including 
two  priests,  were  detained  for  ten  days.  In  March  1990,  five  youths 
were  sentenced  to  jail  terms  of  up  to  three  months  for  infiltrating 
Turkish  Cypriot  territory  and  attempting  to  pull  down  a  Turkish 
flag.  The  Women's  Walk  Home  was  mainly  an  effort  to  bring 


222 


Relatives  demonstrating  for  information  about  the  fate  of  the 
1,600  Greek  Cypriots  missing  in  action  since  the  summer  of  1974 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 

pressure  on  the  Greek  Cypriot  government  to  stand  firm  on  issues 
of  freedom  of  movement  and  settlement  and  compensation  for 
property  in  the  negotiations  with  the  Turkish  Cypriots.  Neverthe- 
less, it  had  the  potential  to  provoke  a  confrontation  of  forces  in 
the  buffer  area. 

The  spillover  of  terrorism  from  the  Middle  East  injected  addi- 
tional tensions  and  violence  unconnected  to  the  conflict  between 
the  Greek-  and  Turkish-speaking  communities.  With  its  strategic 
location,  Cyprus  had  increasingly  been  used  as  a  transit  point  for 
the  movement  of  individuals  and  arms  as  well  as  terrorist  actions 
arising  out  of  the  fighting  in  Lebanon  and  the  Arab-Israeli  dispute. 
The  presence  of  missions  of  Syria,  Libya,  and  Israel  and  a  liaison 
office  of  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO)  all  within 
close  proximity  in  Nicosia  complicated  the  efforts  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  authorities  to  counter  the  security  threat.  With  the  cur- 
tailment of  direct  air  service  to  Beirut,  a  relatively  safe  way  of  travel 
to  war-torn  Lebanon  was  by  flying  to  Cyprus  and  then  continuing 
by  ferry.  Helicopter  flights  also  connected  Cyprus  with  the  beseiged 
Christian  enclaves  in  Beirut,  permitting  the  movement  of  person- 
nel and  arms.  Palestinian  terrorist  groups  regularly  transited  the  is- 
land to  other  destinations,  particularly  to  Eastern  Europe.  A  weekly 


223 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


flight  of  the  Iranian  airline  linking  Tehran  with  Cyprus  also  facili- 
tated the  movement  of  terrorists. 

A  number  of  international  incidents  involving  Palestinians  or 
Lebanese  refugees  occurred  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1985  three  Israe- 
lis were  murdered  aboard  their  private  yacht  in  Larnaca  harbor 
by  gunmen  linked  to  the  PLO.  This  action  provoked  a  damaging 
raid  six  days  later  by  the  Israeli  air  force  against  the  PLO  head- 
quarters in  Tunisia.  In  1988  seven  PLO  officials  were  killed  in  two 
car  bombings  in  Cyprus,  and  a  ship  slated  to  carry  Palestinian 
deportees  to  Israel  was  bombed  at  its  dock  in  Limassol.  The  Abu 
Nidal  terrorist  organization,  headquartered  in  Libya,  was  suspected 
in  an  attempt  to  bomb  the  Israeli  Embassy;  the  bomb  exploded 
some  distance  from  the  embassy,  killing  one  of  the  terrorists  and 
two  Cypriots.  In  October  1989,  six  Lebanese  were  found  guilty 
of  possessing  Soviet  SAM- 7  antiaircraft  missiles  with  the  intent 
of  shooting  down  an  airplane  carrying  the  Lebanese  dissident  Chris- 
tian leader,  General  Michel  Aoun. 

Other  violence  was  linked  to  protests  over  the  continued  exis- 
tence of  British  bases  on  the  island  and  their  use  by  the  United 
States.  In  1986  British  service  personnel  and  their  dependents  were 
targets  of  attacks  by  groups  believed  to  be  linked  with  Libya.  The 
attacks  were  believed  to  be  in  retaliation  against  Britain  for  mak- 
ing its  bases  in  England  available  for  United  States  raids  against 
Libya. 

The  Greek  Cypriot  communist  party,  known  as  the  Progressive 
Party  of  the  Working  People  (Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou 
Laou — AKEL),  has  campaigned  vigorously  against  the  bases  and 
the  use  of  them  for  United  States  intelligence- gathering.  AKEL 
also  proclaimed  its  opposition  to  what  it  regarded  as  the  linkage 
of  Cyprus  to  NATO  through  the  bases,  the  presence  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  Sixth  Fleet  in  the  Mediterranean,  and  United  States 
'  'provocation"  against  Libya,  all  of  which  were  perceived  as 
threatening  the  peace  and  security  of  the  region.  Despite  its  adamant 
foreign  policy,  AKEL  has  never  pursued  a  violent  course  in  press- 
ing its  political  demands  nor  has  it  been  regarded  as  a  security 
threat. 

Armed  Forces 

By  virtue  of  its  strategic  situation,  Cyprus  has  been  invaded, 
conquered,  and  colonized  by  foreign  military  powers  that  succes- 
sively dominated  the  region.  Since  the  second  millennium  B.C., 
the  island  has  been  occupied  by  the  Phoenicians,  Assyrians,  Egyp- 
tians, Persians,  Greeks,  Romans,  crusaders,  Genoese,  Venetians, 
and  Ottoman  Turks.  It  was  employed  by  the  Arabs  as  a  base  to 


224 


National  Security 


launch  warfare  against  Byzantium,  and  by  the  crusaders  in  their 
efforts  to  wrest  the  Holy  Land  from  Muslims.  The  Turkish  Cypriot 
community  on  Cyprus  originated  in  the  some  50,000  Turkish  oc- 
cupation forces  and  discharged  soldiers  who  remained  on  the  is- 
land after  the  defeat  of  the  Venetians  in  1571 .  Britain  used  Cyprus 
as  a  base  in  both  world  wars  and  as  a  staging  ground  for  the  attack 
on  Suez  in  1956. 

Incapable  of  repelling  the  many  foreign  powers  that  have  over- 
run the  island,  the  Cypriot  people  have  inherited  little  military  tra- 
dition of  their  own.  In  the  twentieth  century,  some  1 1 ,000  Cypriots 
fought  as  auxiliaries  with  the  British  Army  during  World  War  I, 
and  about  30,000  Cypriots  served  in  the  Cyprus  Regiment  and 
other  British  units  during  World  War  II.  But  Cyprus  itself  was 
not  the  scene  of  fighting  in  either  war,  and  Cypriot  recruits  were 
demobilized  at  the  close  of  hostilities.  After  independence  in  1960, 
Cyprus  remained  a  neutral  country  and  became  a  member  of  the 
Nonaligned  Movement  (NAM).  It  did  not  join  any  military  al- 
liance. 

The  intractability  of  the  Cyprus  problem  nevertheless  imposed 
on  the  island  the  presence  of  six  separate  military  forces.  As  of  the 
early  1990s,  these  forces  included  Turkish  troops  in  the  north,  the 
Greek  Army  contingent  in  the  south,  the  British  in  the  two  Sover- 
eign Base  Areas  on  the  southern  coast,  and  UNFICYP  manning 
the  buffer  zone  separating  the  two  Cyprus  communities.  The  in- 
digenous Cypriot  armed  forces  on  the  island  consisted  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  National  Guard  in  the  south  and  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Secu- 
rity Force  (Kibns  Turk  Emniyet  Kuvvetleri)  in  the  north. 

In  reunification  negotiations,  the  Greek  Cypriot  government  pro- 
posed demilitarization  as  the  way  to  remove  both  external  and  in- 
ternal security  threats.  Specificially,  the  government  foresaw  the 
withdrawal  of  all  non-Cypriot  military  forces,  the  disbanding  of 
Cypriot  military  forces  under  a  timetable  to  be  drawn  up  in  ad- 
vance of  establishing  a  new  federal  government,  and  a  UN- 
controlled  force  to  assist  in  internal  security. 

Turkish  Cypriots,  on  the  other  hand,  called  for  a  "balance"  be- 
tween non-Cypriot  and  Cypriot  forces  on  both  sides  of  the  island. 
Once  a  federal  government  was  in  place,  non-Cypriot  forces  on 
both  sides  would  be  brought  to  the  level  needed  for  ensuring  the 
fulfillment  of  guarantees. 

Forces  in  the  Government-Controlled  Area 

Under  the  provisions  of  the  constitution  of  1960,  a  2,000-member 
bicommunal  force,  the  Cyprus  Army,  composed  of  60  percent 
Greek  Cypriots  and  40  percent  Turkish  Cypriots,  was  to  be  the 


225 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

primary  security  arm  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  This  force  was 
never  brought  into  being  because  of  disagreement  about  its  organi- 
zation, and  since  1964  the  National  Guard — composed  mainly  of 
Greek  Cypriot  draftees — had  served  as  the  main  armed  body  in 
the  southern  part  of  the  island.  In  addition,  a  Greek  Army  regi- 
ment of  950  men  was  present  on  the  island  in  accordance  with  the 
terms  of  the  Treaty  of  Alliance. 

During  the  decade  after  its  formation  by  Archbishop  Makarios, 
the  National  Guard  became  increasingly  oriented  toward  a  pro- 
Greek  junta,  anticommunist,  and,  ironically,  ultimately  anti- 
Makarios  position  that  culminated  in  the  1974  coup.  The  fall  of 
the  military  from  power  in  Greece  led  to  the  recall  of  the  most  avid 
right-wing  Greek  officers  and  their  replacement  by  officers  of  more 
moderate  views.  By  the  late  1970s,  the  National  Guard  was  no 
longer  identified  with  any  political  faction  and  exercised  no  politi- 
cal influence.  Although  it  had  not  been  regarded  by  Western 
analysts  as  a  very  effective  professional  military  force  because  of 
its  earlier  intense  politicization,  the  National  Guard  performed 
credibly  in  1974  in  resisting  the  initial  landing  of  overwhelmingly 
superior  Turkish  forces. 

Although  it  had  undertaken  a  major  strengthening  and  modern- 
ization program  in  the  late  1980s,  the  National  Guard  had  only 
a  limited  ability  to  deter  a  major  Turkish  offensive  or  to  mount 
counterattacks.  According  to  a  statement  by  Minister  of  Defense 
Andreas  Aloneftis  in  1990,  the  National  Guard  buildup  was  strictly 
defensive  in  purpose.  Aloneftis  acknowledged  that  the  Greek  Cypri- 
ots  would  like  to  ''liberate"  the  land  in  the  north  but  said  this  was 
impossible  in  light  of  existing  realities.  He  said  that  he  was  seek- 
ing to  build  a  reliable  deterrent  force  against  a  Turkish  effort  to 
occupy  the  whole  island.  The  objective,  he  asserted,  was  to  be  able 
to  delay  the  Turkish  advance  for  two  to  three  weeks  until  the  UN 
Security  Council  could  intervene. 

Personnel  and  Recruitment 

According  to  The  Military  Balance,  1989-90,  published  by  the  In- 
ternational Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  in  London,  the  National 
Guard  had  a  complement  of  some  13,000  men  on  active  duty  in 
1989.  Scaled  back  from  a  peak  of  35,000  in  1967,  its  size  had  re- 
mained fairly  constant  since  the  Turkish  invasion  in  1974.  The  bulk 
of  its  personnel  were  Greek  Cypriot  conscripts  fulfilling  twenty- 
six  months  of  mandatory  service. 

The  National  Guard's  officer  corps  had  always  consisted  main- 
ly of  officers  detailed  to  it  from  the  Greek  Army.  In  early  1990, 
an  estimated  1,800  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs) 


226 


Soldiers  of  the  National  Guard 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus,  Washington 

from  the  Greek  Army  were  serving  in  the  National  Guard,  com- 
pared with  approximately  800  Greek  Cypriot  officers  and  NCOs. 
Greek  officers  dominated  in  senior  positions;  as  of  1990,  the  Na- 
tional Guard's  commander,  deputy  commander,  and  chief  of  staff 
were  all  Greek  nationals.  The  senior  Greek  Cypriot  officer  was  a 
divisional  commander  with  the  rank  of  brigadier  general.  Efforts 
were  under  way  to  increase  the  number  of  Greek  Cypriots  in  the 
force.  In  early  1990,  parliament  approved  the  appointment  of  Greek 
Cypriots  to  an  additional  sixty-five  officer  and  fifty  NCO  positions. 

Young  Cypriots  wishing  to  make  a  career  of  military  service  at- 
tended the  Greek  military  academy.  National  Guard  officers  also 
obtained  their  advanced  training  at  Greek  military  institutions, 
where  a  designated  number  of  places  were  set  aside  for  them.  In 
addition,  training  was  provided  in  France  in  the  use  of  the  new 
French  equipment  being  introduced  into  the  National  Guard.  Some 
conscripts  could  become  reserve  officers  after  successfully  completing 
a  six-month  course,  then  serving  as  second  lieutenants  for  ten 
months  of  active  duty.  Greek  officers  assumed  the  primary  respon- 
sibility for  National  Guard  training  at  all  levels. 

Soldiers  completing  their  active  duty  continued  to  serve  in  the 
reserves  until  age  fifty,  and  officers  served  until  age  sixty-five.  As 
of  1990,  it  was  estimated  that  the  National  Guard  could  call  upon 


227 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

66,000  first-line  reserves  and  more  than  30,000  older  second-line 
reserves  (over  age  fifty).  Selected  reserve  units  were  called  up  peri- 
odically without  advance  notice  to  test  the  mobilization  system. 
A  certain  percentage  of  the  reserves  were  mobilized  annually  to 
participate  in  a  week  of  National  Guard  field  exercises. 

Uniforms,  symbols  of  rank,  and  insignia  of  the  National  Guard 
were  similar  to  those  of  the  Greek  Army.  The  color  and  cut  of  the 
uniforms  was  the  same,  although  the  design  of  the  buttons,  the 
device  on  caps,  and  the  shield  on  epaulets  incorporated  an  olive 
branch  device  corresponding  to  that  found  on  the  Cypriot  flag  and 
coat  of  arms.  Fatigue  uniforms  were  of  camouflage  cloth. 

Few  exemptions  were  granted  from  compulsory  service.  Exit  per- 
mits from  the  island  and  the  opportunity  for  higher  education  were 
not  available  until  the  service  obligation  was  fulfilled.  The  annual 
call-up  was  in  June,  and  discharges  were  granted  in  August  to  con- 
form to  the  academic  year.  In  spite  of  incentives,  it  proved  difficult 
to  induce  qualified  individuals  to  remain  in  military  service,  es- 
pecially at  the  NCO  level.  Young  men  with  skilled  or  semiskilled 
occupations  could  easily  obtain  well-paying  jobs  in  the  thriving 
civilian  economy. 

Under  the  influence  of  an  energetic  commanding  officer,  the 
training  regime  was  intensified  in  the  late  1980s.  The  morale  of 
the  National  Guard  was  considered  high,  as  a  result  of  the  more 
rigorous  training  program  and  the  introduction  of  modern  weapons 
systems.  Draftee  wages  were  low — about  US$15  a  month  in  the 
late  1980s — and  were  generally  supplemented  by  help  from  fami- 
lies to  meet  personal  expenses.  Conscripts  were  often  able  to  ar- 
range postings  near  their  homes.  Career  personnel  were  paid  on 
a  scale  of  remuneration  that  appeared  adequate,  especially  at  the 
officer  level. 

As  of  1990,  the  first  women  had  been  recruited  as  volunteers 
into  the  National  Guard,  following  a  decision  to  accept  female  ap- 
plicants for  noncombatant  positions.  The  minister  of  defense  said 
in  1989  that  conscription  of  women  was  being  studied  and  might 
be  introduced  selectively. 

In  March  1989,  Minister  of  Defense  Aloneftis  announced  that 
a  home  guard  to  provide  local  defense  and  protect  rear  areas  would 
be  formed  of  men  from  the  second-line  reserves  and  other  men  who 
had  been  exempted  from  military  service  because  of  dependents. 
By  late  1990,  it  was  not  clear  what  progress  had  been  made  in  or- 
ganizing the  home  guard,  although  about  3,000  men,  including  re- 
servists, living  in  villages  adjacent  to  the  UN  buffer  zone  had  been 
recruited  and  trained  to  impede  a  Turkish  attack.  They  were 
equipped  with  small  arms  and  light  antitank  weapons. 


228 


National  Security 


Organization  and  Equipment 

In  1990  the  National  Guard  was  commanded  by  Greek  Lieu- 
tenant General  Panayotis  Markopoulos.  He  was  responsible  to  the 
minister  of  defense  and  ultimately  to  President  George  Vassiliou. 
The  National  Guard  was  organized  into  an  army  headquarters, 
two  divisional  headquarters,  and  two  brigade  headquarters  that 
would  be  filled  out  with  combat  units  upon  mobilization.  Its  larg- 
est active  units  consisted  of  two  mechanized  battalions,  one  armored 
battalion,  an  artillery  battalion,  and  a  commando  battalion.  Re- 
serves were  organized  into  six  infantry  brigades,  each  with  three 
infantry  battalions,  one  light  artillery  battalion,  and  one  armored 
reconnaissance  squadron.  These  units  were  maintained  only  at 
cadre  strength.  Greek  Army  forces  were  organized  into  one  infan- 
try battalion,  one  commando  battalion,  and  a  support  element. 

Foreign  military  observers  considered  the  Greek  Cypriot  and 
Greek  forces  on  the  southern  part  of  the  island  to  be  seriously  defi- 
cient relative  to  the  Turkish  Army  contingent  in  the  north,  nota- 
bly with  respect  to  armored  strength.  They  also  had  litde  protection 
against  aircraft  based  on  the  nearby  Turkish  mainland.  During 
the  1974  fighting,  the  200  Turkish  tanks  ferried  to  the  island  had 
proven  the  determining  factor  in  the  collapse  of  the  Greek  Cypriot 
defenses.  The  acquisition  of  armored  equipment,  antitank  weapons, 
and  antiaircraft  systems  by  the  National  Guard  in  the  late  1980s 
addressed  the  most  conspicuous  weaknesses  in  the  National  Guard's 
defensive  armaments,  but  they  still  fell  short  of  matching  the  Turk- 
ish forces  in  the  north. 

The  National  Guard's  armor,  which  had  previously  consisted 
of  a  few  Soviet  T-34  tanks  of  World  War  II  vintage  and  a  small 
number  of  armored  personnel  carriers  (APCs)  and  obsolete  armored 
cars,  was  significantly  augmented  beginning  in  1987,  with  the  deliv- 
ery of  French  AMX-30  B-2  tanks  mounted  with  105mm  guns. 
The  total  order  of  fifty-four  tanks  was  due  to  be  in  service  by  the 
early  1990s.  A  total  of  127  French  wheeled  APCs  had  also  been 
acquired;  27  were  fitted  with  20mm  cannons  and  the  rest  with 
turret-mounted  machineguns.  Also  on  order  were  120  EE-9  Cas- 
cavel  six- wheeled  armored  vehicles  from  Brazil,  equipped  with 
90mm  guns,  of  which  40  had  been  delivered  as  of  1989.  The  EE-1 1 
Urutu,  a  Brazilian  APC,  had  been  purchased  and  twenty-eight  ar- 
mored reconnaissance  vehicles,  the  EE-3  Jararaca,  also  manufac- 
tured in  Brazil,  were  on  order.  It  was  also  reported  that  500  vehicles, 
presumably  unarmored,  would  be  supplied  by  Greece  as  aid  in 
1990,  as  part  of  a  longer-term  plan  to  modernize  2,000  vehicles 
in  the  National  Guard  inventory  (see  table  23,  Appendix). 


229 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

The  National  Guard's  artillery  units  were  equipped  with  75mm 
to  105mm  guns  and  howitzers  and  truck-mounted  128mm  multi- 
ple rocket  launchers  of  Yugoslav  manufacture.  Antitank  defenses 
had  been  stiffened  by  the  purchase  of  Milan  and  HOT  (high- 
subsonic,  optically  tracked)  wire- guided  missile  systems  from 
France.  Some  of  the  HOT  missiles  were  fitted  to  armored  vehicles 
and  to  six  Gazelle  helicopters  acquired  from  France  in  1988. 

The  air  defense  capability  was  strengthened  in  the  late  1980s 
by  the  acquisition  of  triple  20mm  cannons  from  Yugoslavia  and 
twin  35mm  towed  antiaircraft  guns  from  Switzerland,  which  were 
to  be  used  in  conjunction  with  the  Contraves  Skyguard  fire-control 
radar  system.  The  older  40mm  and  94mm  antiaircraft  guns  still 
in  the  inventory  were  considered  virtually  useless  against  modern 
fighter  aircraft.  The  National  Guard  had  also  acquired  from  Syria 
a  small  number  of  Soviet  SA-7  shoulder-fired  surface-to-air  missiles. 

The  National  Guard  air  element  as  of  1989  included  Gazelle 
helicopters  and  one  Pilatus  Maritime  Defender  suitable  for  coastal 
patrol  and  light  transport  duties.  In  mid- 1989,  the  first  of  two  Swiss 
Pilatus  PC -9  turboprop  aircraft  was  delivered.  These  planes  were 
intended  for  advanced  training  but  could  be  modified  for  combat 
missions.  The  National  Guard  Naval  Command,  with  330  per- 
sonnel in  1989,  had  one  coastal  patrol  craft  of  95  tons  mounting 
a  40mm  gun. 

According  to  press  reports  in  spring  1990,  the  Greek  Cypriot 
government  had  placed  orders  for  additional  Gazelle  helicopters 
mounted  with  HOT  missiles,  more  antiaircraft  guns,  medium-range 
antiaircraft  missiles,  and  Leonidas  armored  vehicles  from  Greece. 

Defense  Spending 

Defense  costs  were  divided  into  two  categories,  budgetary  spend- 
ing and  off-budget  expenditures.  The  former  were  believed  to  in- 
clude mainly  the  ongoing  personnel  and  training  expenditures  of 
the  National  Guard,  and  the  latter  included  capital  expenditures, 
notably  arms  purchases.  Off-budget  expenditures  were  disbursed 
from  a  defense  fund,  the  size  of  which  was  not  disclosed.  The  defense 
fund  was  financed  by  a  special  defense  levy  on  interest,  dividends, 
rents,  and  company  profits.  This  levy  was  raised  from  2  to  3  per- 
cent effective  July  1990,  and  was  to  be  extended  for  three  years  un- 
til mid- 1993.  In  addition,  receipts  from  increased  taxes  on  gasoline 
and  cigarettes  were  to  be  deposited  in  the  defense  fund.  Private  com- 
panies and  the  Church  of  Cyprus,  considered  to  be  the  wealthiest 
institution  on  the  island,  also  contributed  directly  to  the  fund. 

According  to  data  published  by  the  United  States  Arms  Con- 
trol and  Disarmament  Agency  (AC DA),  which  included  only 


230 


National  Security 


regularly  budgeted  defense  items,  military  spending  had  gradual- 
ly tapered  off,  from  US$42  million  in  1981  to  US$35  million  in 
1987.  With  inflation  taken  into  account,  the  reduction  was  even 
more  marked,  from  US$52  million  in  1981  to  US$35  million  in 
1987,  in  constant  1987  dollars.  Budgeted  defense  spending  con- 
stituted only  0.9  percent  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP— see 
Glossary)  in  1987  (down  from  2.0  percent  in  1981)  and  2.9  per- 
cent of  total  central  government  expenditures  (down  from  7.0  per- 
cent in  1981).  Budgeted  military  expenditures  amounted  to  US$51 
per  capita  annually. 

Although  total  defense  outlays  were  considered  classified  infor- 
mation, Aloneftis  said  in  a  1990  interview  that  they  would  total 
US$325  million  in  1990  and  that  similar  amounts  would  be  spent 
annually  for  the  following  three  to  five  years.  This  amount  was 
triple  1986  defense  spending.  According  to  Aloneftis,  the  arms  build- 
up was  being  financed  through  supplier  credits  and  loans  from 
France,  Greece,  Italy,  Singapore,  Yugoslavia,  and  Switzerland. 
During  the  five-year  period  of  1983-87,  total  arms  imports  had 
been  US$320  million,  and  most  of  these  shipments  had  occurred 
in  1987,  according  to  ACDA.  France  had  been  the  dominant  sup- 
plier (US$290  million),  and  most  of  the  rest  had  come  from  Brazil. 

Forces  in  the  Turkish-Administered  Area 

In  1990  the  dominant  military  force  in  the  Turkish-administered 
northern  sector  of  the  island  remained,  as  it  had  been  since  the 
Turkish  invasion  of  1974,  the  28th  and  39th  infantry  divisions  of 
the  Turkish  Army,  backed  by  an  independent  armored  brigade 
and  some  artillery  support.  The  28th  division  was  headquartered 
at  Asha  (Pasakoy)  to  the  northeast  of  Nicosia,  and  the  39th  divi- 
sion near  Morphou  (Giizelyurt).  The  corps  reserve  was  at  Kythrea 
(Degirmenlik)  to  the  northeast  of  Nicosia.  The  Turkish  contingent 
was  referred  to  officially  as  the  Cyprus  Turkish  Peace  Force.  The 
original  force  of  40,000  troops  was  reduced  shortly  after  the  1974 
invasion.  In  early  1990,  Turkish  defense  authorities  claimed  that 
the  Cyprus  contingent  amounted  to  only  17,500,  whereas  Greek 
Cypriot  authorities  placed  its  strength  at  35,000.  Independent 
sources  believed  that  the  force  numbered  about  30,000. 

The  Turkish  detachments  on  Cyprus  were  part  of  the  Turkish 
Aegean  Army  command  structure,  with  headquarters  at  Izmir  on 
the  Turkish  mainland.  However,  the  commander  of  the  Turkish 
troops  reported  directly  to  the  Turkish  General  Staff  in  the  capi- 
tal, Ankara.  The  commander  on  Cyprus  as  of  late  1989  was  Lieu- 
tenant General  Sabahattin  Akinci.  Although  responsible  for  all 
security  questions,  Akinci  was  not  directly  involved  in  political 


231 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


matters  of  northern  Cyprus.  The  principal  missions  of  the  Turkish 
Army  contingent  were  to  maintain  the  security  of  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  community,  defend  the  borders  established  in  1974,  pro- 
tect against  any  Greek  Cypriot  guerrilla  attacks  or  other  cross-border 
actions,  and  assist  in  the  training  of  members  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot 
armed  force. 

Details  on  the  arms  and  equipment  of  the  Turkish  Army  forces 
were  not  available,  although  they  were  known  to  include  M-47 
and  M-48  tanks  and  M-l  13  APCs  of  United  States  origin,  as  well 
as  105mm,  155mm,  and  203mm  guns  and  howitzers.  The  forces 
were  supplied  with  40mm  antiaircraft  guns  and,  according  to  Greek 
sources,  the  Milan  antitank  missile.  Turkey  had  supplemented  its 
armored  inventory  in  the  late  1980s  with  M-48A5  tanks  that  had 
been  upgraded  and  mounted  with  105mm  guns  as  part  of  a  major 
modernization  program  throughout  the  Turkish  Army.  As  of  1990, 
the  Turkish  forces  on  Cyprus  were  believed  to  have  more  than  200 
converted  M-48s  and  100  of  the  original  M-48s  and  M-47s.  The 
Turkish  forces  were  also  equipped  with  light  aircraft  and  Bell 
UH-1D  helicopters,  operating  from  a  newly  constructed  airfield 
at  Lefkoniko  (Gecitkale).  Small  groups  of  combat  jet  aircraft  of 
the  Turkish  Air  Force  occasionally  appeared  at  the  new  field,  but 
none  were  based  there. 

Even  before  independence,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  had 
maintained  its  own  paramilitary  force  (the  TMT),  trained  and 
equipped  by  the  Turkish  Army  contingent  on  the  island.  In  1967 
this  force  were  named  the  Mucahit  (fighter),  and  in  1975  the  Miica- 
hit  was  renamed  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force.  As  of  1989, 
the  strength  of  this  force  was  believed  to  be  about  4,000.  It  was 
organized  into  seven  infantry  battalions  armed  with  light  weapons 
plus  some  artillery  units  equipped  with  mortars. 

The  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force  was  commanded  in  1989 
by  an  officer  of  the  Turkish  Army,  Brigadier  General  Bilgi  Buyu- 
kunal,  who  had  both  operational  and  administrative  responsibili- 
ties, as  well  as  control  over  the  police  force.  The  commander  was 
responsible  to  the  prime  minister  of  the  self-proclaimed  "Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus"  ("TRNC")  through  the  minister 
of  foreign  affairs  and  defense,  Kenan  Atakol.  A  unified  military- 
civilian  defense  staff  of  the  ministry  was  responsible  for  defense 
policy  and  strategy.  Although  legally  separate  from  the  Turkish 
Army  on  the  island,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force  was  be- 
lieved to  remain  under  the  de  facto  operational  control  of  the  Turk- 
ish forces.  It  also  depended  on  Turkey  for  training  and  equipment. 
Most  of  its  officers  were  regular  Turkish  Army  officers  on  second- 
ment. Its  announced  budget  for  1990  was  US$3.9  million,  an 


232 


National  Security 


unusually  small  amount,  representing  only  1.5  percent  of  the  to- 
tal government  budget.  Observers  believed  that  many  of  its  ex- 
penses were  absorbed  by  the  Turkish  Army. 

Turkish  Cypriot  males  were  liable  to  conscription  at  age  eigh- 
teen for  a  twenty-four-month  period  of  service.  Discharged  soldiers 
served  in  the  reserves  until  the  age  of  fifty.  The  number  of  first- 
line  and  second-line  reserves  was  estimated  at  5,000  and  10,000, 
respectively,  as  of  1989. 

British  Forces  on  Cyprus 

Under  the  provisions  of  the  Treaty  of  Establishment,  Britain  re- 
tained perpetual  sovereignty  over  two  areas  on  the  southern  coast 
of  Cyprus,  totaling  256  square  kilometers.  A  further  fifteen  reserved 
areas,  including  water  sources  and  off-base  radar  sites,  remained 
under  British  jurisdiction.  Since  1960  the  British  Army  and  Royal 
Air  Force  (RAF)  have  garrisoned  up  to  10,000  troops  in  the  Sover- 
eign Base  Areas  at  Akrotiri  and  Dhekelia.  Formerly,  two  squadrons 
of  bombers  and  their  fighter  escorts  were  based  on  Cyprus,  but 
since  the  late  1970s  the  RAF  has  no  longer  stationed  combat  air- 
craft on  the  island. 

With  the  decline  of  the  British  military  presence  in  the  Middle 
East,  the  bases  have  been  used  as  training  sites  for  RAF  and  ground 
force  units  and  staging  areas  between  Britain  and  southern  Asia 
and  the  Far  East.  With  permission  from  the  Cyprus  government, 
British  troops  also  carried  on  extensive  training  outside  the  base 
area  in  the  Troodos  Mountains.  The  bases  provided  support  for 
UN  troops  on  Cyprus  and  workshops  for  maintenance  of  UN  equip- 
ment. The  most  important  role  of  the  bases  was  electronic  intelli- 
gence gathering  and  communications  relay.  Intercepts  were  made 
of  aircraft,  ship,  and  satellite  communications  from  the  eastern 
Mediterranean  through  the  Middle  East  to  Iran.  Information  so 
acquired  was  shared  with  the  United  States.  Although  the  bases 
had  no  formal  link  to  NATO,  their  presence  in  the  primary  area 
of  operation  of  the  Soviet  naval  squadron  in  the  Mediterranean 
was  of  material  value  to  the  alliance. 

The  bases  provided  logistic  support  for  peace-keeping  missions 
by  United  States  forces  in  the  Middle  East,  including  the  Multina- 
tional Force  sent  to  Lebanon  in  1982.  U-2  reconnaissance  planes 
were  based  at  Akrotiri  beginning  in  the  1970s,  to  monitor  the  cease- 
fire in  the  Sinai.  The  United  States  also  maintained  Blackhawk 
helicopters  there,  which  had  flown  support  missions  on  behalf  of 
the  American  Embassy  in  Beirut  prior  to  its  closure. 

As  of  1990,  the  British  personnel  strength  of  the  Sovereign  Base 
Areas  was  about  4,000,  plus  approximately  the  same  number  of 


233 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

dependents.  The  army  units  consisted  of  one  infantry  battalion  plus 
two  infantry  companies  and  one  armored  reconnaissance  squadron. 
The  only  permanent  RAF  unit  was  a  squadron  of  five  Wessex 
helicopters.  The  army  had  six  Gazelle  helicopters,  which  also  served 
to  support  UNFICYP  activities. 

The  British  bases  were  a  long-standing  source  of  contention, 
although  most  Greek  Cypriots  as  of  1990  accepted  the  presence 
of  British  forces.  Military  relations  were  very  good,  and  British 
and  Greek  Cypriot  authorities  cooperated  closely  in  antiterrorism 
matters.  Almost  all  Greek  Cypriot  political  parties  agreed  that  Brit- 
ain should  eventually  give  up  its  rights  on  the  island.  The  com- 
munist party,  AKEL,  was  the  most  vocal  in  attacking  the  use  of 
the  bases  for  intelligence  purposes  and  in  calling  for  the  British  to 
relinquish  the  territory. 

United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus 

United  Nations  (UN)  troops  were  present  on  Cyprus  beginning 
with  the  breakdown  of  the  constitutional  arrangements  in  1964. 
The  original  three-month  UNFICYP  mandate  was  extended,  ini- 
tially at  three-month  intervals  and,  after  1974,  at  six-month  inter- 
vals. Any  of  the  permanent  members  of  the  UN  Security  Council 
could  veto  its  continuation,  but  none  has  ever  done  so.  The  Secu- 
rity Council  repeatedly  affirmed  the  original  mandate  and  adopt- 
ed a  number  of  resolutions  that  required  the  force  to  perform 
additional  or  modified  functions.  The  basic  mandate  called  on 
UNFICYP  to  operate  "in  the  interest  of  preserving  international 
peace  and  security,  to  use  its  best  efforts  to  prevent  a  recurrence 
of  fighting  and,  as  necessary,  to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  and 
restoration  of  law  and  order  and  a  return  to  normal  conditions." 

The  UNFICYP  force  level  was  maintained  at  about  4,500  from 
1965  to  1968,  and  3,500  from  1969  to  1972.  Except  for  a  temporary 
increase  to  4,440  for  a  period  after  the  1974  fighting,  its  size  gradu- 
ally declined,  reaching  about  2,000  as  of  1990. 

Before  1974  UNFICYP  troops  were  deployed  throughout  the 
island  between  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish  Cypriot  defense  posi- 
tions. Frequently  UN  soldiers  acted  as  mediators  to  prevent  minor 
squabbles  from  leading  to  armed  conflict.  Only  rarely  was  force, 
or  even  the  threat  of  force,  necessary  in  these  efforts.  In  1974, 
however,  UNFICYP  was  unable  to  prevent  either  the  attack  against 
Makarios  or  the  Turkish  intervention  (operations  that,  in  any  case, 
exceeded  both  its  mandate  and  its  military  preparedness.)  During 
the  fighting,  however,  UN  troops  took  up  positions  at  Nicosia  In- 
ternational Airport,  preventing  either  side  from  capturing  this  stra- 
tegic location.  UNFICYP  also  played  an  essential  role  in  the 


234 


United  Nations  troops  manning  an  observation  post 
looking  across  the  Mesaoria 
Courtesy  United  Nations 


235 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

exchange  of  prisoners.  After  the  hostilities,  all  UN  personnel  moved 
back  into  the  buffer  zone  between  the  Turkish  and  Greek  Cypriot 
cease-fire  lines. 

Through  a  system  of  146  observation  posts,  54  of  them  perma- 
nently manned,  and  mobile  and  standing  patrols,  the  buffer  zone 
was  kept  under  constant  surveillance.  A  patrol  and  communica- 
tions track  running  the  entire  length  of  the  buffer  zone  was  used 
for  reconnaissance,  monitoring  of  agricultural  activities  in  the  zone, 
resupply  of  observation  posts,  and  rapid  reaction  to  any  incidents. 
Regular  patrols  were  generally  conducted  in  Land  Rovers  or  similar 
vehicles.  Armored  scout  cars  formed  a  reserve,  and  British  helicop- 
ters were  also  available  if  needed.  In  1989  both  sides  accepted  a 
UNFICYP  proposal  to  dismantle  their  forward  military  positions 
in  Nicosia  and  cease  patrolling  in  three  sensitive  areas  of  the  city 
to  reduce  the  risk  of  incidents. 

In  April  1989,  command  of  UNFICYP  was  assumed  by  Major 
General  Clive  Milner  of  Canada.  The  head  of  each  national  con- 
tingent in  the  UN  force  was  directly  responsible  to  the  UNFICYP 
commander,  as  was  the  chief  of  staff,  who  oversaw  the  headquar- 
ters staff  and  the  various  support  units.  Each  national  contingent 
operated  as  a  unit  in  prescribed  areas  in  the  buffer  zone;  only  at 
headquarters  did  personnel  from  different  nations  work  together 
on  a  daily  basis.  As  of  1990,  Britain  provided  742  soldiers,  Cana- 
da 575,  Austria  410,  and  Denmark  342.  The  Irish,  Finnish,  and 
Swedish  contingents  had  been  reduced  to  token  numbers  in  1973, 
1977,  and  1988,  respectively.  The  main  British,  Canadian,  Aus- 
trian, and  Danish  units  were  organized  as  infantry  battalions.  All 
seven  participating  countries  supplied  military  police  and  headquar- 
ters personnel.  In  addition,  Britain  furnished  a  nineteen-member 
scout  car  squadron  and  most  of  the  UNFICYP  support  units.  Aus- 
tria and  Sweden  supplied  the  thirty-five-member  civilian  police  con- 
tingent under  UNFICYP  control. 

Each  contingent  wore  the  standard  uniform  of  its  home  coun- 
try, although  UNFICYP  personnel  wore  distinctive  blue  headgear, 
blue  UN  sleeve  emblems,  and  a  variety  of  UN-issued  accessories. 
Each  contingent  rotated  its  troops  every  six  months,  although  a 
small  number  of  staff  personnel  undertook  longer  tours  of  duty. 
Salaries  were  based  on  those  in  each  contingent's  home  country 
and  were  paid  by  the  home  countries.  The  cost  of  maintaining 
UNFICYP  came  to  about  US$26  million  in  1989,  including  oper- 
ational expenses,  transport,  pay,  and  allowances  above  what  would 
have  been  incurred  if  contingents  were  serving  at  home,  and  sal- 
aries and  travel  of  nonmilitary  personnel.  Funds  for  these  expen- 
ses depended  entirely  on  voluntary  contributions  by  UN  member 


236 


National  Security 


states.  These  contributions,  however,  had  never  been  sufficient. 
Reimbursement  claims  of  troop-contributing  countries  had  been 
met  only  to  June  1980.  The  accumulated  deficit  was  nearly  US$175 
million  by  the  close  of  1989. 

UNFICYP  personnel  functioned  in  several  capacities  in  addi- 
tion to  monitoring  the  cease-fire  lines.  They  provided  security  for 
farmers  from  both  Cypriot  communities  who  lived  and  worked 
within  the  buffer  zone.  They  visited  Turkish  Cypriots  in  the  south 
and  Greek  Cypriots  in  the  north  to  ensure  their  safety  and  welfare, 
and  arranged  temporary  visits  and  reunions  of  relatives.  UNFICYP 
commanders  held  meetings  with  commanders  of  the  National  Guard 
and  of  the  Turkish  forces  as  required,  and  meetings  were  held  with 
both  sides  at  the  chief-of- staff  level  at  regular  intervals.  The  civilian 
police  contingent  of  UNFICYP  functioned  as  a  liaison  between  the 
two  communities'  police  forces  and  maintained  law  and  order  in 
the  buffer  zone. 

Police 

The  police  system,  like  the  armed  forces,  was  split  along  com- 
munal lines.  The  1960  constitution  called  for  two  police  organiza- 
tions: an  urban  police  force,  to  be  commanded  by  a  Greek  Cypriot, 
and  a  rural  police  force,  or  gendarmerie,  to  be  commanded  by  a 
Turkish  Cypriot.  The  constitutional  system  broke  down  after  the 
Christmas  crisis  of  1963,  and  each  community  subsequendy  provid- 
ed its  own  police.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  police  was  originally  an 
arm  of  the  paramilitary  TMT;  after  1974  it  operated  under  the 
Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force,  within  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Defense  and  the  Ministry  of  Interior  of  the  Turkish 
Cypriot  administration  in  the  north.  New  legislation  in  1984  rede- 
fined its  structure,  but  it  continued  to  be  accountable  to  the  com- 
mander of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force. 

The  Cyprus  Police  Force,  in  contrast,  was  a  force  organization- 
ally and  operationally  separate  from  the  National  Guard,  within 
the  Ministry  of  Interior  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  After  1963  the 
police  of  the  government  of  Cyprus  assumed  no  responsibility  for 
the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  (in  1973  the  force  of  over  3,000 
contained  only  one  Turkish  Cypriot),  so  that  the  de  facto  parti- 
tion of  the  island  after  1974  meant  only  a  reduction  in  the  amount 
of  territory  for  which  the  police  were  responsible.  The  Greek  Cypriot 
police  force  rose  in  strength  from  2,550  in  1969  to  3,500  in  1978, 
and  to  3,700  in  1989. 

Organization  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  Police 

The  chief  of  the  Cyprus  Police  Force  was  responsible  to  the 


237 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

minister  of  interior.  He  was  aided  by  a  deputy  chief  and,  below 
him,  two  assistant  chiefs,  who  supervised  activities  at  police  head- 
quarters. Headquarters  consisted  of  four  departments:  adminis- 
tration; traffic;  criminal  investigation;  and  planning,  training,  and 
public  relations.  Beneath  headquarters  in  the  chain  of  command 
stood  seven  division  chiefs,  each  of  whom  supervised  a  police  dis- 
trict; beneath  them  were  station  chiefs.  Directly  under  the  nation- 
al headquarters  were  five  special  units:  the  Police  Training  School, 
the  Aliens  and  Immigration  Service,  the  Fire  Service,  the  Cyprus 
Information  Service,  and  the  Mobile  Immediate  Action  Units.  The 
latter  two  services,  although  administratively  responsible  to  the  chief 
of  police,  were  operationally  controlled  elsewhere.  The  Cyprus  In- 
formation Service,  a  small  intelligence  unit  concerned  with  both 
security  matters  and  common  crime,  received  its  directions  from 
the  president  of  the  republic.  The  Mobile  Immediate  Action  Units, 
a  reincarnation  of  the  Tactical  Police  Reserve  of  the  early  1970s, 
were  elite  forces  trained  to  protect  high-ranking  officials  and  for- 
eign embassies  and  to  provide  special  weapons  assault  teams  in  the 
event  of  terrorist  attacks.  The  units'  training  and  operational  con- 
trol were  in  the  hands  of  the  National  Guard,  and  their  commander 
was  an  officer  of  the  National  Guard. 

Personnel  needs  of  the  police  were  met  through  recruitment  of 
career  officers  from  the  Greek  Cypriot  population.  Unlike  the  Na- 
tional Guard,  the  police  force  contained  no  mainland  Greeks.  New 
recruits  attended  a  twenty-one-week  course  at  the  Police  Training 
School  in  Athalassa,  southeast  of  Nicosia.  A  few  high-ranking 
officers  received  training  in  Britain,  Greece,  and  other  countries. 

The  police  force  was  armed  beyond  the  requirements  of  ordi- 
nary police  work;  its  arsenal  included  armored  cars  and  light  ar- 
tillery acquired  in  the  1960s,  when  the  police  played  a  central  role 
in  the  intercommunal  struggle.  In  1989  orders  were  placed  for  the 
purchase  of  a  helicopter  with  sophisticated  surveillance  equipment 
and  two  coastal  patrol  boats,  as  part  of  stepped-up  antinarcotics 
operations. 

Turkish  Cypriot  Police  Organization 

Regulations  published  in  1986  under  Law  Number  51  of  1984 
on  Police  Organization  (Establishment,  Functions,  and  Authori- 
ties) of  the  Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus  defined  the  area 
of  jurisdiction  of  the  police  force  of  northern  Cyprus.  The  Police 
Organization  was  divided  into  two  major  components,  the  central 
and  provincial  organizations.  The  director  general  of  police,  the 
most  senior  officer  of  the  Police  Organization,  was  responsible  to 
the  commander  of  the  Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force  with  regard 


238 


Portion  of  the  Green  Line, 
the  line  dividing  Nicosia 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Cyprus, 
Washington 


to  planning,  coordination,  and  supervision  of  police  services.  Un- 
der the  immediate  control  of  the  director  general's  deputy  were 
nine  central  police  directorates:  administrative;  judicial  police;  po- 
litical police;  air,  sea,  and  ports  police;  traffic;  the  fire  service;  police 
school;  immigration;  and  indigenous  affairs.  Two  special  units,  the 
Mobile  Unit  for  Immediate  Action  and  the  narcotics  squad,  were 
directly  accountable  to  the  director  general. 

The  Judicial  Police  Directorate  assisted  provincial  police  organi- 
zations in  criminal  investigations  and  carried  out  its  own  judicial 
investigations  in  matters  of  special  interest  to  the  director  general. 
Its  branches  included  photographic  identification  and  fingerprint- 
ing; criminal  records;  firearms  registration;  ballistics  laboratories; 
and  a  bomb  squad.  The  Political  Police  Directorate  included  depart- 
ments of  domestic  and  foreign  intelligence.  The  directorate  tried 
to  gain  advance  knowledge  of  actions  or  plans  that  could  affect  in- 
ternal security  and  carried  out  measures  for  dealing  with  them. 
Provincial  political  police  departments  were  directly  subordinate 
to  the  central  directorate,  gathering  information  on  threatened 
offenses  or  incidents  against  the  security  of  the  state  and  other  duties 
as  assigned  by  the  director  of  political  police.  The  combined  staff- 
ing of  the  central  political  police  organization  and  the  five  provin- 
cial organizations  was  set  at  107  individuals. 

Separate  provincial  police  directorates  were  established  at  Nicosia, 
Famagusta  (Gazimagusa),  Kyrenia  (Girne),  Morphou,  and  the 


239 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Karpas  Peninsula.  Under  the  supervision  of  each  provincial  direc- 
torate were  three  or  four  regional  directorates  and  six  to  twelve 
police  stations.  The  provincial  police  directorates  also  had  six  service 
units:  administration,  judicial  police,  traffic,  immigration,  fire,  and 
administrative  and  indigenous  affairs. 

Crime  and  Punishment 
Incidence  of  Crime 

Somewhat  paradoxically,  in  light  of  the  violence  of  the  nation's 
past,  statistics  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  pointed  to  a  crime  rate 
that  was  lower  (6.44  crimes  per  1,000  inhabitants)  than  the  rate 
for  most  West  European  countries.  The  low  incidence  of  crime 
among  Cypriot  nationals  was  accounted  for  by  the  closeness  of  fam- 
ily ties,  the  emphasis  on  upholding  the  family's  honor  and  reputa- 
tion, and  the  social  pressures  for  education  and  achievement. 
According  to  statistics  submitted  to  the  International  Criminal 
Police  Organization  (INTERPOL)  for  the  year  1988,  various  forms 
of  theft  constituted  by  far  the  largest  number  of  serious  offenses 
(2,592).  Only  fourteen  murders,  eighteen  sex  offenses,  and  seventy- 
seven  serious  assaults  were  recorded.  There  were  528  cases  of  fraud 
and  48  drug  offenses.  Juveniles  accounted  for  13.6  percent  of  thefts 
and  women  for  6.7  percent.  Corresponding  data  on  crime  in  the 
Turkish  Cypriot-administered  north  were  not  available. 

The  domestic  use  of  illegal  drugs  was  low  compared  with  the 
situation  elsewhere  in  the  eastern  Mediterranean  and  Europe, 
although  the  minister  of  interior  testified  in  parliament  in  October 
1989  that  the  problem  was  growing.  Cyprus  was  not  a  source  of 
narcotics  but  was  an  important  brokering  center  for  narcotics 
traffickers,  especially  those  from  Lebanon  and  Turkey.  Traffick- 
ers met  in  Cyprus,  forwarded  shipments  of  heroin  and  cannabis 
through  the  island's  container  transshipment  facilities,  and  used 
Cypriot  air  links  to  transship  currency  and  bullion  to  and  from 
Europe.  Narcotics  laws  were  rigidly  enforced,  and  draft  legisla- 
tion to  provide  stricter  penalties  for  possession  and  trafficking  in 
illegal  drugs  was  under  discussion  in  early  1990.  Cypriot  police 
cooperated  closely  with  law  enforcement  authorities  in  neighbor- 
ing countries,  resulting  in  significant  seizures  and  arrests.  There 
were,  however,  no  direct  working  relations  with  Turkish  Cypriot 
enforcement  authorities  or  with  Turkey.  According  to  Turkish 
sources,  northern  Cyprus  had  also  become  a  transit  point  for  drugs, 
and  there  were  indications  of  major  drug-processing  activities. 

In  1 989  a  total  of  1 34  arrests  were  recorded  by  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  for  drug  offenses;  72  were  of  Cypriot  nationals  and  62  of 


240 


National  Security 


foreigners.  The  number  of  arrests  had  mounted  steadily  since  1986, 
when  26  Cypriots  and  29  foreigners  were  arrested. 

The  Criminal  justice  System 

The  courts  exercising  criminal  jurisdiction  in  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  were  district  courts,  assize  courts,  and  the  Supreme  Court 
in  its  appellate  functions.  District  courts  served  as  the  courts  of 
first  instance  for  all  but  the  most  serious  crimes;  their  jurisdiction 
was  over  any  crime  with  a  penalty  of  up  to  three  years'  imprison- 
ment, a  fine  of  up  to  C£500  (Cyprus  pound — for  value,  see  Glos- 
sary), or  both.  Assize  courts  had  unlimited  jurisdiction  in  the  first 
instance  but  in  practice  heard  only  a  small  percentage  of  the  cases 
coming  before  the  district  courts.  The  Supreme  Court  heard  all 
criminal  appeals  but  had  no  original  jurisdiction  in  criminal  mat- 
ters. There  were  no  special  courts  to  deal  with  security  or  political 
offenses,  and  civilians  were  not  subject  to  trial  by  military  courts. 

The  court  system  in  the  Turkish-administered  area  was  similar 
to  that  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  In  district  courts,  a  judge  sit- 
ting alone  had  jurisdiction  to  try  summarily  all  offenses  punish- 
able by  imprisonment  not  exceeding  three  years.  Assize  courts, 
composed  of  three  judges,  had  jurisdiction  to  try  offenses  punish- 
able with  more  than  three  years  imprisonment.  The  Supreme  Court 
dealt  with  criminal  appeals  from  assize  courts  and  district  courts, 
but  did  not  exercise  initial  jurisdiction  in  criminal  matters  except 
when,  sitting  as  the  Supreme  Council  of  Judicature,  it  might  try 
the  president  for  treason  or  the  prime  minister  and  other  ministers 
for  charges  preferred  by  the  Legislative  Assembly. 

District  courts  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  sat  permanently,  con- 
sisted of  one  judge  each,  and  conducted  exclusively  summary  tri- 
als held  immediately  after  preliminary  inquiries.  Assize  courts  met 
three  times  a  year  in  each  judicial  district  and  were  each  composed 
of  three  judges  chosen  from  the  district  court.  Assize  courts  heard 
preliminary  inquiries,  or  trials  of  information,  after  which  the  ac- 
cused could  be  discharged  or  bound  over  for  trial.  Trial  procedure 
was  based  on  English  common  law  and  was  identical  in  both  courts: 
the  charge  was  read,  the  accused  entered  a  plea,  the  prosecution 
presented  witnesses  and  evidence,  the  defense  presented  its  case, 
closing  statements  were  made,  and  the  verdict  and  sentence  were 
handed  down.  Cases  were  generally  tried  before  judges,  although 
a  request  for  a  jury  trial  was  usually  granted. 

Within  ten  days  of  the  pronouncement  of  sentence,  the  accused 
could  appeal  any  case  involving  a  sentence  of  imprisonment  or  a 
fine  over  C£20.  The  accused  could  appeal  either  a  conviction  or 
a  sentence;  the  prosecutor  could  also  appeal  a  sentence  or,  from 


241 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


a  district  court,  a  judgment.  All  appeals  went  to  the  Supreme  Court 
and  had  to  be  heard  by  at  least  three  of  its  seven  members.  The 
Supreme  Court  had  wide  latitude  in  its  appeal  findings:  it  could 
increase,  decrease,  or  modify  a  sentence;  it  could  acquit  or  con- 
vict in  overruling  a  lower  court;  or  it  could  remand  a  case  to  the 
lower  court  for  retrial. 

Defendants  had  the  right  to  be  present  at  their  trials,  to  be 
represented  by  counsel,  to  be  provided  with  a  public  defender  if 
unable  to  afford  a  lawyer,  to  confront  witnesses,  and  to  present 
evidence  in  their  own  defense.  According  to  the  Country  Reports  on 
Human  Rights  Practices  published  annually  by  the  United  States 
Department  of  State,  freedom  from  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention 
was  provided  by  law  and  respected  in  practice  by  both  the  Govern- 
ment of  Cyprus  and  the  Turkish  Cypriot  authorities.  Preventive 
detention  was  not  legally  authorized  and  was  not  reported  in  prac- 
tice. Under  the  Greek  Cypriot  system,  no  one  could  be  held  for 
more  than  one  day  for  investigation  of  a  crime  without  referral  of 
the  case  to  the  courts  for  extension.  Most  periods  of  investigative 
detention  did  not  exceed  eight  or  ten  days  before  formal  charges 
were  filed.  Attorneys  had  free  access  to  detainees. 

Punishments  allowed  by  law  included  death  by  hanging,  im- 
prisonment up  to  life,  whipping,  and  fines.  Criminal  punishments 
as  actually  implemented  were  light.  The  death  penalty,  which  could 
be  handed  down  for  premeditated  murder,  high  treason,  piracy, 
and  certain  capital  offenses  under  military  law,  was  in  practice  com- 
muted by  the  president  of  the  republic.  The  punishment  of  whip- 
ping was  not  imposed  in  practice.  The  few  long  prison  sentences 
handed  down  by  Greek  Cypriot  courts  were  usually  shortened  by 
pardons  or  parole  actions.  The  vast  majority  of  punishments  for 
criminal  convictions  were  in  the  form  of  fines. 

Prisoners  in  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  were  housed  in  the  Nicosia 
Central  Prison.  The  prison  population  was  very  low.  In  1990,  of 
260  inmates,  65  were  aliens.  Thus,  although  foreigners  constitut- 
ed only  1  percent  of  the  population,  they  accounted  for  25  percent 
of  the  prisoners.  Most  of  these  were  Middle  Easterners  convicted 
of  drug  trafficking. 

Both  the  Cyprus  constitution  and  the  basic  document  govern- 
ing the  Turkish  Cypriot  community  specifically  prohibited  torture. 
In  both  communities,  freedom  from  cruel,  unhuman,  or  degrad- 
ing treatment  was  provided  by  law  and  respected  in  practice.  Ade- 
quate health  care  was  provided  in  detention  facilities,  and  diets  were 
considered  normal.  Family  members  were  permitted  monthly  visits 
after  conviction,  and  attorneys  could  visit  at  any  time. 


242 


National  Security 


*    *  * 


The  Republic  of  Cyprus  and  the  Turkish  Cypriot  authorities 
release  few  details  on  the  size,  equipment,  organization,  and  deploy- 
ment of  troops  at  their  disposal.  Their  public  statements  tend  to 
minimize  the  strength  of  their  own  forces  and  to  exaggerate  the 
strength  of  the  other  side.  Estimates  in  the  foregoing  section  rely 
primarily  on  data  found  in  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990  pub- 
lished by  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  sup- 
plemented by  reports  in  Jane's  Defence  Weekly.  The  article  on  Cyprus 
by  Gwynne  Dyer  in  World  Armies  (1983  edition)  provides  additional 
particulars  on  the  National  Guard  and  other  military  contingents, 
although  its  information  on  Turkish  and  Turkish  Cypriot  forces 
is  limited.  An  interview  with  Defense  Minister  Aloneftis,  reported 
by  Mary  Anne  Weaver  in  the  New  Yorker,  reveals  numerous  de- 
tails on  the  defense  preparations  of  the  Greek  Cypriot  forces  as  of 
1990.  A  study  by  Keith  Kyle  on  Cyprus,  published  by  the  Minority 
Rights  Group  in  London,  is  a  concise  but  balanced  review  of 
politico-military  events  through  1984.  The  international  strategic 
dimensions  of  the  Cyprus  dispute  are  analyzed  by  Robert 
McDonald  in  The  Problem  of  Cyprus  in  the  Adelphi  Papers  series. 
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus 
(UNFICYP)  during  its  quarter  century  of  peace-keeping  is  treat- 
ed by  Alan  James  in  "The  UN  Force  in  Cyprus"  in  the  journal 
International  Affairs.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations, 
see  Bibliography.) 


243 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Selected  Turkish  Cypriot  Places-Names 

3  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Parliamentary  Election  Results,  1976-85 

4  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Parliamentary 

Election  Results,  1976-90 

5  Population  of  Cyprus,  Selected  Years,  1491-1973 

6  Population  of  Cyprus,  Selected  Years,  1975-88 

7  Turkish  Cypriot  Population,  Selected  Dates,  Sixteenth  Cen- 

tury to  1988 

8  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Schools,  Teachers,  and  Enrollments, 

Selected  School  Years,  1975-76  to  1988-89 

9  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Schools,  Teachers, 

and  Enrollments,  1976-77  and  1988-89 

10  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Distribution  of  Gross  Domestic  Product 

(GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 

1 1  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Gainfully  Employed  Population  by  Sector, 

Selected  Years,  1976-87 

12  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Production  and  Value  of  Principal 

Agricultural  Products,  Selected  Years,  1979-87 

13  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Exports,  1985-88 

14  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Value  of  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP) 

by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 

15  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Annual  Increase  of  Gross  Domestic 

Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  years,  1979-88 

16  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Balance  of  Payments,  1985-88 

1 7  '  'Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" :  Value  of  Gross  Do- 

mestic Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1977-90 

18  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Distribution  of 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years, 
1977-90 

19  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus' ' :  Gainfully  Employed 

Population  by  Sector,  1986-89 

20  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Balance  of  Pay- 

ments, 1987-90 

21  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Major  Trading 

Partners,  Selected  Years,  1982-90 

22  Selected  Newspapers,  1990 

23  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Major  National  Guard  Equipment,  1990 


245 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

Centimeters 

0  39 

inches 

  3.3 

feet 

  0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)  

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

  35.3 

cubic  feet 

  0.26 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Selected  Turkish  Cypriot  Place-Names 


Turkish  Form  International  Standard  Form 


Boghaz 

Kythrea 

Famagusta 

Lefkoniko 

Kyrenia 

Morphou 

Kormakiti 

Lapithos 

Lefka 

Nicosia 

Asha 


Bogaz 

Degirmenlik 
Gazimagusa 
Gecitkale  . 
Girne 

Giizelyurt  . 
Korucam  . 
Lapta 

Lefke   

Lefko§a  .  . 
Pa§ak6y   .  . 


247 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Parliamentary  Election 
Results,  1976-85 


1976  1981  1985 

Seats      Percentages       Seats      Percentages       Seats  Percentages 


Party  of  Votes  of  Votes  of  Votes 


AKEL  1    9  69.5  2  12  32.8  15  27.4 

DIKO  3    21                —  2  8  19.5  16  27.7 

DISY  4    0  24.1  12  31.9  19  33.6 

EDEK  5    4               —  2  3  8.2  6  11.1 

Other   1  n.a.  0  n.a.  0  n.a. 


n.a. — not  available 

1  Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou  Laou  (Progressive  Party  of  the  Working  People). 

2  AKEL,  DIKO,  and  EDEK  formed  an  electoral  coalition  in  1976  against  DISY. 

3  Dimokratiko  Komma  (Democratic  Party). 

4  Dimokratikos  Synagermos  (Democratic  Rally). 

5  Eniea  Dimokratiki  Enosis  Kyprou  (United  Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus). 


Table  4.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus": 
Parliamentary  Election  Results,  1976-90 


1976 

1981 

1985 

1990 

Party 

Seats 

Percentages 

Seats 

Percentages 

Seats 

Percentages 

Seats 

Percentages 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

of  Votes 

CTP  1   .  .  . 

2 

5 

6 

15 

12 

21 

7 

44  2 

TKP  3  .  .  . 

6 

15 

13 

29 

10 

16 

5 

  2 

UBP  4  .  .  . 

30 

75 

18 

43 

24 

37 

34 

55 

YDP  5  .  .  . 

  6 

  6 

  6 

  6 

4 

9 

2 

  2 

Other    .  .  . 

2 

5 

3 

14 

0 

7 

0 

1 

TOTAL  7 

40 

100 

40 

100 

50 

100 

5 

100 

1  Cumhuriyetci  Turk  Partisi  (Republican  Turkish  Party). 

2  CTP,  TKP,  and  YDP  formed  an  electoral  alliance  in  1990  against  UBP. 

3  Toplumcu  Kurtulus.  Partisi  (Communal  Liberation  Party). 

4  Ulusal  Birlik  Partisi  (National  Unity  Party). 

5  Yeni  Dogus,  Partisi  (New  Dawn  Party). 

6  YDP  was  not  established  until  1984. 

7  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


248 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Population  of  Cyprus,  Selected  Years,  1491-1973 


Year  Population 


1491    168,000 

1575    180,000 

1881    186,200 

1891    209,300 

1901    237,000 

1911    274,100 

1921    310,700 

1931    348,000 

1946    450,100 

1960    573,600 

1973  *    631,800 


•  De  Jure  census. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  L.W.  St.  John-Jones,  The  Population  of  Cyprus,  Houns- 
low,  Middlesex,  United  Kingdom,  1983,  33;  and  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry 
of  Finance,  Department  of  Statistics  and  Research,  Statistical  Abstract,  1987  and  1988, 
Nos.  33-34,  Nicosia,  1989,  33. 


Table  6.  Population  of  Cyprus,  Selected  Years,  1975-88 


Area  Controlled  by 

Year  Entire  Island  Republic  of  Cyprus 


1975    618,000  498,300 

1978    616,000  501,300 

1980    627,000  513,300 

1982    640,000  524,600 

1984    657,000  538,400 

1986    673,000  550,900 

1988    688,000  562,700 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department 
of  Statistics  and  Research,  Statistical  Abstract,  1987  and  1988,  Nos.  33-34,  Nicosia, 
1989,  41,  45. 


249 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  Turkish  Cypriot  Population,  Selected  Dates, 
Sixteenth  Century  to  1988 

Date  Population  * 

Sixteenth  century   40,000  to  60,000 

Eighteenth  century    60,000 

1881    45,458 

1911    56,428 

1921    61,339 

1931    64,245 

1946    80,548 

1960    104,333 

1963   120,000 

1972    78,000 

1978    146,740 

1982    152,239 

1986    162,676 

1988    167,256 

*  Figures  through  1960  are  based  on  Ottoman  and  British  estimates  and  censuses.  Figures  thereafter 
are  provided  by  Turkish  Cypriot  authorities. 


Table  8.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Schools,  Teachers,  and 
Enrollments,  Selected  School  Years,  1975-76  to  1988-89 


1975-76 

1980-81 

1984-85 

1988-89 

Preprimary  schools 

96 

259 

374 

497 

222 

418 

592 

826 

4,229 

10,397 

15,607 

20,280 

Primary  schools 

Schools  

400 

443 

396 

382 

Teachers   

2,093 

2,183 

2,193 

2,689 

Enrollment  

56,554 

48,701 

47,381 

58,706 

Secondary  schools 

Schools  

80 

91 

105 

105 

2,364 

2,910 

3,126 

3,439 

49,373 

47,599 

48,752 

42,613 

Vocational  and  technical  schools 

8 

13 

15 

24 

78 

191 

250 

430 

769 

1,940 

2,580 

5,065 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department 
of  Statistics  and  Research,  Statistical  Abstract,  1987  and  1988,  Nos.  33-34,  Nicosia, 
1989,  87. 


250 


Appendix 


Table  9.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus'':  Schools, 
Teachers,  and  Enrollments,  1976-77  and  1988-89 


1976-77 

1988-89 

Preprimary  schools 

  24 

82 

  37 

100 

  1,095 

2,658 

Elementary  schools 

  120 

158 

  608 

770 

  18,220 

17,963 

Junior  high  schools 

  22 

24 

  344 

545 

  6,895 

11,898 

Senior  high  schools 

  10 

13 

  183 

303 

  3,667 

3,965 

Vocational  and  technical  schools 

  9 

10 

  246 

235 

  1,160 

1,788 

Higher  education 

4 

  7 

n.a. 

  120 

3,885 

n.a. — not  available. 


251 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Distribution  of  Gross  Domestic 
Product  by  Sector  (GDP),  Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  percentages  at  current  market  prices) 


Sector 

1979 

1982 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988  * 

Agriculture,  forestry,  and 

10.7 

9.6 

7.8 

7 

6 

7.8 

7.7 

1.6 

0.9 

0.5 

K 

J 

0.4 

0.4 

18.3 

17.6 

16.4 

15 

7 

16.0 

16.3 

Electricity,  gas,  and  water  .  .  . 

1.3 

1.7 

2.3 

2 

3 

2.2 

2.2 

13.4 

11.7 

10.5 

10 

10.0 

9.9 

Wholesale  and  retail  trade, 

restaurants  and  hotels  .... 

16.0 

16.7 

19.6 

19 

8 

20.3 

20.8 

Transportation,  storage, 

and  telecommunications  .  .  . 

8.1 

8.6 

9.8 

10 

2 

9.8 

9.4 

Finance,  insurance,  real  estate, 

and  business  services   

15.2 

15.5 

14.7 

15 

0 

14.8 

14.5 

Community,  social,  and 

personal  services  

3.4 

3.8 

4.8 

5 

1 

5.3 

5.5 

Public  administration  and 

6.7 

7.9 

7.7 

7 

8 

7.6 

7.5 

4.9 

5.6 

5.3 

5 

3 

5.2 

5.2 

Other  

0.4 

0.4 

0.6 

0 

6 

0.6 

0.6 

TOTAL   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Provisional. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Economic  Report, 
1987,  Nicosia,  May  1989,  60. 


252 


Appendix 

Table  11.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Gainfully  Employed  Population  by 
Sector,  Selected  Years,  1976-87 
(in  percentages) 

Sector  1976         1979         1982         1985         1986  1987 


Agriculture,  forestry,  and 


9S  9 

90  7 

18  4 

Ifi  7 
io./ 

ifi  1 

1  8 

1  J.O 

\^iT11Tlcr  Qn/i   cii  i  r\  t*t*\71  n  or 

1.6 

1.0 

0.6 

0.5 

0.5 

0.4 

"N/fpirnifaPtiirincy  ^innlnHincr 

iViculUlaLlUl  Hit   I  111V.1UU111C 

cottage  industries)   

19.4 

21.1 

21.5 

20.6 

19.9 

20.1 

Electricity,  gas,  and  water  .  .  . 

0.9 

0.8 

0.8 

0.7 

0.6 

0.6 

(lon^tnirtinn 

7.3 

11.5 

10.3 

9.8 

9.9 

9.8 

Wholesale  and  retail  trade, 

restaurants,  and  hotels  .... 

16.7 

17.4 

19.6 

21.7 

22.1 

22.3 

Transportation,  storage,  and 

5.7 

5.0 

5.4 

5.8 

5.8 

6.0 

Finance,  insurance,  real  estate, 

4.2 

4.3 

4.6 

5.1 

5.4 

5.5 

Community,  social,  and 

3.3 

4.7 

5.8 

6.9 

7.2 

7.2 

Public  administration  and 

7.6 

6.6 

6.4 

5.9 

6.1 

6.0 

7.2 

6.0 

5.6 

5.4 

5.4 

5.3 

Other  

0.9 

0.9 

1.0 

0.9 

1.0 

1.0 

TOTAL   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic 

of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Economic  Report, 

1987,  Nicosia,  May  1989,  126. 


253 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


& 


CO 

O 

O 

O 

CM 

<£> 

<£> 

O 

m 

CO 

<£> 

co 

CM 

O 

CD 

CD 

CO 

CM 

O 

o 

CD 

CD 

CO 

co 

o 

co 

m 

CD 

CO 

o 

r>. 

CD 

to 

CO 

m 

m 

IO 

CD 

r-~ 

©_ 

co 

CO 

CD 

CO 

oq 

CD 

CM 

CM 

<xT 

CM 

■*" 

Th" 

cm" 

co" 

<o" 

r^" 

CM 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

CO 

CM 

m 

00 

CO 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

CO 

CD 

in 

CM 

m 

co 

CO 

<£> 

<£> 

CM 

o 

r»» 

© 

CM 

o 

o 

CO 

m 

CO 

o 

o 

o 

m 

CO 

m 

CO 

iO 

m 

CO 

CM 

o 

CO 

CM 

m 

<o 

CM 

l>. 

m 

m 

CM 

co 

CD 

CM 

CCl 

IO 

in 

m 

uq 

CM 

CM 

<£>" 

cm" 

cm" 

co" 

cm" 

co" 

CM 

rt 

co" 

•*" 

co" 

in 

o 

o 

co 

o 

© 

o 

o 

m 

© 

in 

Tj- 

o 

CM 

o 

o 

o 

o 

CO 

O 

o 

o 

CO 

CM 

m 

co 

CO 

in 

CM 

CD 

CO 

CO 

o 

CO 

CO 

m 

m 

co 

iO 

m 

CO 

CM 

<3 

CD 

CD 

co 

-* 

CO 

t^- 

8 

©^ 

m 

"* 

IO 

CD 

°l 

m 

m 

<o 

uq 

» 

CD 

m 

s 

,— • 

©" 

©" 

■*" 

cm" 

<£>" 

■*" 

co" 

in 

<*" 

CM 

,— 1 

co" 

cm" 

o 

co 

o 

o 

lO 

o 

m 

m 

CO 

o 

in 

CM 

o 

o 

IO 

m 

CO 

CD 

o 

o 

CO 

CD 

CD 

CM 

© 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CO 

m 

CM 

O 

CO 

o 

o 

IO 

CM 

O 

CD 

CM 

m 

IO 

CO 

o 

o 

CO 

<£> 

CO 

CM 

o 

CM 

CM 

o 

co 

O 

O 

CO 

CD 

CM 

CO 

TO 

CD 

CM 

CO 

CD- 

CM 

m 

al 

t>T 

©" 

co" 

m" 

co" 

cm" 

CM 

CM 

1 

m" 

cm" 

o" 

CM 

CM 

CO 

CD 

CM 

CM 

CD 

CM 

© 

(O 

in 

to 

CD 

CM 

co 

o 

CD 

CD 

CO 

CO 

CM 

<o 

CM 

m 

CO 

CM 

o 

CM 

CM 

m 

CM 

CM 

co 

CO 

CO 

o 

CM 

CD 

CM 

CD 

in 

O 

co 

o 

in 

CO 

co 

CO 

CD 

CO 

(O 

CO 

CO 

<0 

CO 

CO 

o 

CM 

CD 

uq 

TO 

m 

m 

m 

q 

CM 

CO 

CO 

CO 

00 

CO- 

co 

CM 

cm" 

CM 

CM* 

co" 

U3 

CM 

O 

t^. 

CO 

CO 

o 

CM 

o 

o 

o 

CO 

CO 

O 

m 

CO 

m 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CO 

CO 

o 

CD 

CM 

CM 

o 

co 

m 

CM 

o 

co 

co 

CM 

^3  2 


3  ^ 


U  > 


C  «3 


2^  o 


S  |  I  S  8,^1  §  SL^c  ■: 

fa  J 


T3 

V 


254 


Appendix 


& 


CT>  CO  — ' 
O  CO  O 
*  N  O 


co  m 

OM* 

<-i  in  n 


& 


m  in  m 
e<-i  cm 


ID  (£)  if! 
CO  CO  CO 

o  o  m 


3 


© 

3 

m 

cm" 

I 


of 


<£>  CO  CT) 

oi  -<  n 


Ov  •* 
m"  co" 


■a 
c 

& 


1 


o  M  ~ 


^"o 

CO  V) 

!3  «j 


5 

a 
O 

O 

_o 
3 

3 

Oh 

V 

s 

o 


255 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Table  13.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Exports,  1985-88 
(in  millions  of  Cyprus  pounds)1 


X lUUUtl 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988 

A 

Agricultural  products 

Jo.  J 

1  A.  1 

1  J  .  J 

1  1  Q 

1  1 

1  .  D 

1  .9 

10.4 

20.2 

22.2 

16.2 

A  1 

4-.  3 

1  A 

5 . 4 

1  c 

5 .  o 

1  o 
5  . 1 

1  Q 

d  .y 

D .  0 

a  n 

i .  y 

Q  1 

y .  l 

1U.U 

"7  K 

49.3 

51.9 

57.6 

47.5 

Manufactured  products 

Wine  and  alcoholic  beverages  

9.0 

4.8 

4.3 

5.2 

7.4 

3.2 

4.0 

3.4 

49.7 

41.0 

68.6 

74.6 

1  0.  / 

1  A  A 

■ten 
10. U 

\  C  A 

10.4- 

1 . 3 

3 . 5 

4.7 

5.9 

4.8 

2.3 

6.2 

7.7 

9.5 

7.7 

8.1 

18.1 

Machinery  and  transportation  equipment  .  .  . 

13.0 

7.5 

7.8 

11.3 

5.0 

4.1 

4.5 

5.0 

4.5 

8.9 

9.3 

9.1 

5.4 

3.8 

5.8 

5.6 

Other   

16.6 

18.2 

18.8 

17.4 

142.9 

119.4 

158.1 

179.7 

6.6 

5.2 

5.8 

4.8 

Other   

0.5 

0.6 

0.8 

n.a. 

TOTAL   

.  199.3 

177.1 

222.3 

232.0 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  value  of  the  Cyprus  pound — see  Glossary. 

2  Includes  quarrying  materials. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Central  Bank  of  Cyprus,  Annual 
Report,  1988,  Nicosia,  May  1989,  39. 


256 


Appendix 


Table  14.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Value  of  Gross 
Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  millions  of  Cyprus  pounds  at  current  market  prices)  1 


Sector 

1979 

1982 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988  2 

Agriculture,  forestry,  and 

fishing   

64.5 

95.0 

111.0 

117.3 

132.3 

144.2 

Mining  and  quarrying  .  .  . 

9.5 

8.8 

7.1 

7.5 

6.7 

6.9 

Manufacturing   

110.8 

174.5 

231.9 

240.5 

273.9 

306.5 

Electricity,  gas,  and 

7.8 

17.5 

33.3 

35.2 

37.0 

41.1 

81.1 

115.5 

148.6 

156.5 

170.0 

186.8 

Wholesale  and  retail 

trade,  restaurants,  and 

96.4 

165.8 

277.0 

303.9 

346.4 

391.9 

Transportation,  storage, 

and  telecommuni- 

48.7 

84.6 

138.3 

155.9 

168.0 

178.0 

Finance,  insurance,  real 

estate,  and  business 

92.0 

153.5 

207.7 

229.7 

252.0 

272.3 

Community,  social,  and 

21.0 

37.7 

68.4 

78.9 

90.1 

103.3 

Public  administration  and 

40.4 

77.9 

108.8 

119.4 

129.8 

141.6 

Public  services  

29.5 

55.9 

74.9 

81.8 

89.2 

97.6 

Other   

2.4 

4.2 

8.1 

9.1 

9.8 

11.3 

TOTAL   

604.1 

990.9 

1,415.1 

1,535.7 

1,705.2 

1,881.5 

1  For  value  of  the  Cyprus  pound — see  Glossary. 

2  Provisional. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Economic  Report, 
1987,  Nicosia,  May  1989,  57. 


257 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Table  15.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Annual  Increase  of  Gross 
Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1979 

1982 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988  * 

Agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing  . 

.  16.6 

17.1 

-7.2 

5.7 

12.8 

9.0 

,  9.2 

-10.2 

-11.3 

5.6 

-10.7 

3.0 

Manufacturing  

19.7 

13.2 

7.8 

3.7 

13.9 

11.9 

Electricity,  gas,  and  water   

9.9 

19.0 

18.9 

5.7 

5.1 

11.1 

36.3 

9.8 

8.5 

5.3 

8.6 

9.9 

Wholesale  and  retail  trade, 

restaurants,  and  hotels   

.  29.7 

20.6 

19.6 

9.7 

14.0 

13.1 

Transportation,  storage,  and 

telecommunications   

16.8 

17.5 

14.7 

12.7 

7.8 

6.0 

Finance,  insurance,  real  estate, 

.  23.5 

14.5 

10.0 

10.6 

9.7 

8.1 

Community,  social,  and 

personal  services  

25.7 

16.0 

20.4 

15.4 

14.2 

14.7 

Public  administration  and  defense 

.  27.8 

19.8 

10.3 

9.7 

8.7 

9.1 

.  26.6 

27.9 

10.1 

9.2 

9.0 

9.4 

Other   

.  26.3 

13.5 

5.2 

12.3 

7.7 

15.3 

GDP   

,  24.0 

16.1 

10.6 

8.5 

11.0 

10.3 

*  Provisional. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Economic  Report, 
1987,  Nicosia,  May  1989,  59. 


Table  16.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Balance  of  Payments,  1985-88 
(in  millions  of  Cyprus  pounds)  1 


1985 

1986 

1987 

1988  2 

.  ,  .  .  255.4 

234.0 

272.5 

301.2 

687.2  4 

-591.5  5 

-638.3  6 

-777.8 

-431.8 

-357.5 

-365.8 

-476.6 

,    ,  583.8 

601.6 

689.2 

790.2 

.  ,  -249.2 

-245.6 

-274.2 

-307.4 

,  ,  334.6 

356.0 

415.0 

482.8 

Current  account  balance   

-97.2 

-1.5 

49.2 

6.2 

Short-term  capital  

-3.0 

-3.2 

-4.0 

5.0 

30.1 

64.8 

-6.5 

-5.6  7 

Other  private  long-term  capital    .  .  . 

35.5 

24.0 

25.0 

29.0 

Capital  account  balance  

62.6 

85.6 

14.5 

28.4 

.  ...  17.5 

-18.1 

-53.9 

-38.9 

-17.1 

66.0 

9.8 

-4.3 

1  For  value  of  the  Cyprus  pound — see  Glossary. 

2  Provisional. 

3  f.o.b. — free  on  board. 

4  Includes  aircraft  valued  at  C£228.6  million. 

5  Includes  pipes  for  Southern  Conveyor  Project  valued  at  C£218.8  million. 

6  Includes  pipes  for  Southern  Conveyor  Project  valued  at  C£21.8  million. 

'  Includes  loan  prepayments  by  government  amounting  to  C£244.0  million. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Central  Bank  of  Cyprus,  Annual  Report,  1988,  Nicosia, 
May  1989,  46. 


258 


Appendix 


Table  17.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Value  of  Gross 
Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1977-90 
(in  millions  of  Turkish  lira  at  1977  value)  * 


Sector 

1977 

1980 

1985 

1988 

1989 

1990 

i  r 
Agriculture,  forestry, 

and  fishing 

619.3 

779.3 

801.0 

726.7 

709.1 

639.7 

\yf  aniifartnrincr    m  inincr 

1V£CL11U1CIV~IU1  lllg  ,  lllllllllg, 

electricity,  and 

365.1 

612.7 

510.8 

700.1 

912.2 

947.3 

P,nn^tnirtinn 

153.0 

135.7 

263.8 

465.6 

501.3 

506.5 

Wholesale  and  retail 

trade,  restaurants, 

801.0 

770.9 

957.3 

1,087.4 

1,207.0 

1,334.1 

Transportation  and 

telecommunications  . 

257.4 

285.0 

474.5 

694.6 

753.8 

791.8 

Financial  institutions  . 

115.4 

150.1 

217.5 

266.3 

287.5 

310.0 

Ownership  of 

dwellings   

355.3 

324.9 

337.5 

360.3 

369.4 

377.3 

Business  and  personal 

128.1 

152.3 

169.4 

214.2 

235.7 

259.3 

Government  services  . 

752.7 

894.6 

1,115.0 

1,197.8 

1,227.7 

1,278.1 

Import  duties  

228.2 

87.6 

151.5 

286.1 

312.1 

491.7 

TOTAL   

3,775.5 

4,193.1 

4,998.3 

5,999.1 

6,515.9 

6,935.8 

*  For  value  of  the  Turkish  lira — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  State  Plan- 
ning Organisation. 


Table  18.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Distribution  of  Gross 
Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1977-90 
(in  percentages) 

Sector  1977         1980         1985         1988         1989  1990 


Agriculture,  forestry,  and 


,  16.4 

18.6 

16.0 

12.1 

10.9 

9.2 

Manufacturing,  mining, 

9.7 

14.6 

10.2 

11.7 

14.0 

13.7 

4.1 

3.2 

5.3 

7.8 

7.7 

7.3 

Wholesale  and  retail  trade, 

restaurants,  and  hotels   

21.2 

18.4 

19.2 

18.1 

18.5 

19.2 

Transportation  and 

telecommunications   

6.8 

6.8 

9.5 

11.6 

11.6 

11.4 

.  3.1 

3.6 

4.4 

4.4 

4.4 

4.4 

9.4 

7.7 

6.8 

6.0 

5.6 

5.4 

Business  and  personal  services  . 

3.4 

3.6 

3.4 

3.5 

3.6 

3.7 

19.9 

21.3 

22.3 

19.9 

18.8 

18.4 

6.0 

2.1 

3.0 

4.8 

4.8 

7.1 

TOTAL  *   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  State  Plan- 
ning Organisation. 


259 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Table  19.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus": 
Gainfully  Employed  Population  by  Sector,  1986-89 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989  * 

31.4 

29.9 

28.9 

27.8 

Manufacturing,  mining,  electricity,  and  water 

10.3 

10.4 

10.5 

11.4 

9.0 

10.2 

10.4 

10.4 

Wholesale  and  retail  trade,  restaurants,  and  hotels  . 

8.9 

9.1 

9.2 

9.4 

7.2 

7.2 

7.7 

7.9 

2.5 

2.5 

2.6 

2.6 

7.8 

7.9 

8.1 

8.5 

Government  services  (including  state  economic 

22.9 

22.8 

22.6 

22.0 

TOTAL   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Provisional. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Center  for  Business  and  Economic  Research  of  the 
Eastern  Mediterranean  University  and  Cyprus  Turkish-German  Cultural  Associ- 
ation, Structural  Changes  in  the  Economy  of  North  Cyprus,  Famagusta,  Cyprus,  1990. 


Table  20.  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus":  Balance  of 
Payments,  1987-90 
(in  millons  of  United  States  dollars) 


1987 

1988 

1989 

1990 

55.1 

52.4 

55.2 

65.5 

.  .  221.0 

-218.1 

-262.5 

-381.5 

.  .  -165.9 

-165.7 

-207.3 

-316.0 

.  .  103.5 

118.0 

154.9 

224.8 

Other  invisibles  (net)   

41.7 

38.9 

47.9 

74.8 

Invisibles  balance  

145.2 

156.9 

202.8 

299.6 

.  .  -20.7 

-8.8 

-4.5 

-16.4 

35.5 

10.9 

15.6 

22.5 

Other  foreign  aid  

8.3 

5.8 

4.3 

2.1 

Financing  of  imports  by  waiver  as  against 

63.9 

61.9 

103.9 

169.9 

-63.9 

-40.4 

-87.7 

-169.3 

43.8 

38.2 

36.1 

25.2 

23.1 

29.4 

31.6 

8.8 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  State  Plan- 
ning Organisation. 


260 


Appendix 


©  o  <£>  o 
r^i  tJh'    !  T-l  in 


(N  M  O  *  * 

cr!  m  in  eo  cm 


Ot         N  (O  (N 
ID  >t'  CO  N 


en      cn  cm  oo 


cm  CTi  m  en 
ui  «  n  T)i  ri 


CO  0">  lO  '<4H  Tt1 

r>!  m'  ©'  in  o 


3  "E 


2 

ill 
6s6 


261 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Table  22.  Selected  Newspapers,  1990 


Newspaper  Political  Stance  Circulation 


Greek  Cypriot 

Agon   center-right  9,000 

Apogevmatini    centrist  10,000 

Cyprus  Mail   center-right  4,000 

Eleftheria  Tis  Gnomis                                         -do-  2,000 

Eleftherotypia    DIKO  party  organ  1  6,500 

Haravghi    AKEL  party  organ  2  13,000 

Philelefiheros   centrist  20,000 

ProinaNea   EDEK  party  organ  3  1,200 

Simerini   supports  DISY  4  13,000 

Turkish  Cypriot 

Birlik    UBP  party  organ  5  4,500 

Cyprus  Times   centrist  n.a. 

Halkin  Sesi                                                      -do-  6,000 

Kibris    center-right  4,000 

Kibns  Postasi   center-left  4,500 

Ortam    TKP  party  organ  6  1,250 

Yeniduzen   CTP  party  organ  7  1,000 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  DIKO — Dimokratiko  Komma  (Democratic  Party). 

2  AKEL — Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou  Laou  (Progressive  Party  of  the  Working  People). 

3  EDEK — Eniea  Dimokratiki  Enosis  Kyprou  (United  Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus). 

4  DISY — Dimokratikos  Synagermos  (Democratic  Rally). 

5  UBP— Ulusal  Birlik  Partisi  (National  Unity  Party). 

6  TKP — Toplumcu  Kurtulus.  Partisi  (Communal  Liberation  Party). 

7  CTP — Cumhuriyetci  Turk  Partisi  (Republican  Turkish  Party). 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1991,  1,  London,  1991,  848-49; 
and  Political  Handbook  of  the  World,  1991,  Binghamton,  New  York,  1991,  169,  171. 


262 


Appendix 


Table  23.  Republic  of  Cyprus:  Major  National  Guard  Equipment,  1990 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of 
Origin 


Inventory 


Tanks 

AMX-30  B-2    France  30  of  54  ordered 

Armored  reconnaissance  vehicles 

EE-9  Cascavel   Brazil  40 

Marmon-Harrington  armored  cars    Britain  24 

Armored  infantry  fighting  vehicles 

VAB-VCI,  20mm  cannon   France  27 

Armored  personnel  carriers 

Leonidas    Greece  16 

VAB-VTT    France  100 

EE- 11  Urutu   Brazil  15 

BTR-50P    Soviet  Union  17 

Towed  artillery 

M-116A1,  75mm    United  States  4 

M-42,  76mm    Soviet  Union  18 

25  pounder    Britain  52 

M-1944,  100mm   Soviet  Union  18 

M-101,  105mm   United  States  18 

M-56,  105mm   Soviet  Union  18 

Mortars 

81mm,  some  self-propelled    n.a.  71 

M-41/43,  82mm,  some  self-propelled    Soviet  Union  n.a. 

M-2,  107mm    United  States  12 

Multiple  rocket  launchers 

Yug  M-77,  128mm   Yugoslavia  8 

Recoilless  rifles 

M-18,  57mm    United  States  189 

M-40,  106mm   -do-  126 

Antitank  guided  weapons 

Milan    France  n.a. 

HOT   -do-  n.a. 

Air  defense  weapons 

M-55,  20mm  gun    Yugoslavia  100 

Oerlikon  GDF-003  35mm  gun    Switzerland  8 

40mm,  94mm  gun   n.a.  n.a. 

SA-7  surface-to-air  missile    Soviet  Union  20 

Aircraft 

SA-342  Gazelle  helicopters    France  6 

Pilatus  PC -9  trainer    Switzerland  1 

Pilatus  BN-2A  Maritime  Defender    Britain  1 

Ships 

Coastal  patrol  boat,  95  tons,  40mm  gun  ....  -do-  1 
n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  85; 

and  Christopher  F.  Foss,  "Cypriot  Rearmament  Completed,"  Jane's  Defence  Weekly 
[London],  March  12,  1988,  445. 


263 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Adams,  T.W.  AKEL:  The  Communist  Party  of  Cyprus.  (Hoover  In- 
stitution Studies,  No.  27.)  Stanford:  Hoover  Institution  Press, 
1971. 

Adams,  Thomas  W. ,  and  Alvin  J.  Cottrell.  Cyprus  Between  East  and 
West.  (Studies  in  International  Affairs,  No.  7.)  Baltimore:  Johns 
Hopkins  Press,  1968. 

Alastos,  Doros.  Cyprus  in  History,  2.  London:  Zeno,  1976. 

Attalides,  Michael  A.  Cyprus:  Nationalism  and  International  Politics. 
New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1979. 

Bahcheli,  Tozun.  Greek-Turkish  Relations  since  1955.  Boulder,  Col- 
orado: Westview  Press,  1990. 

Ball,  George  W.  The  Past  Has  Another  Pattern.  New  York:  Norton, 
1982. 

Battle,  Lucius  D.,  and  Dennis  P.  Williams.  Cyprus:  Two  Decades 
of  Crisis.  (Middle  East  Problem  Paper  No.  16.)  Washington:  Mid- 
dle East  Institute,  1976. 

Birand,  Mehmet  Ali.  30  Hot  Days.  London:  K.  Riistem  and 
Brother,  1985. 

Bitsios,  Dimitri  S.  Cyprus:  The  Vulnerable  Republic.  Salonika:  Insti- 
tute for  Balkan  Studies,  1975. 

Clerides,  Glafkos.  Cyprus:  My  Deposition.  (3  vols.)  Nicosia:  Alithia, 
1989-90. 

Coufoudakis,  Van  (ed.).  Essays  on  the  Cyprus  Conflict.  New  York: 
Pella,  1976. 

Crawshaw,  Nancy.  The  Cyprus  Revolt.  London:  George  Allen  and 
Unwin,  1978. 

Crouzet,  Francois.  Le  Conflit  de  Chypre,  1946-1959.  (2  vols.)  Brus- 
sels: Etablissements  Emile  Bruylant,  1973. 

Denktash  [DenktasJ,  Rauf  R.  The  Cyprus  Triangle.  London:  K. 
Riistem  and  Brother,  1982. 

Durrell,  Lawrence.  Bitter  Lemons.  New  York:  Dutton,  1957. 

Edbury,  Peter  W.  The  Kingdom  of  Cyprus  and  the  Crusades,  1191-1374. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1991. 

Eden,  Anthony.  Full  Circle.  London:  Cassel,  1960. 

Ehrlich,  Thomas.  Cyprus,  1958-1967.  (International  Crises  and  the 
Role  of  Law.)  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1974. 

Ertekiin,  N.M.  The  Cyprus  Dispute  and  the  Birth  of  the  Turkish  Repub- 
lic of  Northern  Cyprus.  Oxford:  K.  Riistem  and  Brother,  1984. 


265 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Foley,  Charles.  Legacy  of  Strife.  Baltimore:  Penguin  Books,  1964. 
Foley,  Charles,  and  W.I.  Scobie.  The  Struggle  for  Cyprus .  Stanford: 

Hoover  Institution  Press,  1975. 
Foot,  Hugh.  A  Start  in  Freedom.  London:  Hodder  and  Stoughton, 

1964. 

Hart,  Parker  T.  Two  NA  TO  Allies  at  the  Threshold  of  War:  Cyprus— 
A  Firsthand  Account  of  Crisis  Management,  1965-1968.  (Duke  Press 
Policy  Studies.)  Durham,  North  Carolina:  Duke  University 
Press,  1990. 

Hill,  George.  History  of  Cyprus.  (4  vols.)  London:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1940-1952. 

Hitchens,  Christopher.  Cyprus.  London:  Quartet  Books,  1984. 

Hunt,  David  (ed.).  Footprints  in  Cyprus:  An  Illustrated  History.  Lon- 
don: Trigraph,  1982. 

Joseph,  Joseph  S.  Cyprus:  Ethnic  Conflict  and  International  Concern. 
(American  University  Studies,  Series  X;  Political  Science, 
No.  6.)  New  York:  Peter  Land,  1985. 

Karageorghis,  Vassos.  The  Ancient  Civilization  of  Cyprus.  New  York: 
Cowles  Education,  1969. 

Kelling,  George  Horton.  Countdown  to  Rebellion:  British  Policy  in 
Cyprus,  1939-1955.  (Contributions  in  Comparative  Colonial 
Studies,  No.  27.)  New  York:  Greenwood  Press,  1990. 

Koumoulides,  John  T.A.  (ed.).  Greece  and  Cyprus  in  History.  Am- 
sterdam: Adolf  M.  Hakkert,  1985. 

Maier,  Franz  Georg.  Cyprus:  From  the  Earliest  Times  to  the  Present 
Day.  London:  Elek  Books,  1968. 

Markides,  Kyriacos  C.  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  the  Cyprus  Republic.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1977. 

Mayes,  Stanley.  Makarios:  A  Biography.  New  York:  St.  Martin's 
Press,  1981. 

Necatigil,  Zaim  M.  The  Cyprus  Question  and  the  Turkish  Position  in 
International  Law.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1989. 

Oberling,  Pierre.  The  Road  to  Bellapais:  The  Turkish  Cypriot  Exodus 
to  Northern  Cyprus.  (East  European  Monographs,  No.  125.)  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Social  Science  Monographs,  1982. 

Panteli,  Stavros.  A  New  History  of  Cyprus:  From  the  Earliest  Times  to 
the  Present  Day.  London:  East-West,  1984. 

Patrick,  Richard  A.  Political  Geography  and  the  Cyprus  Conflict: 
1963-1971.  (Department  of  Geography  Publication  Series, 
No.  4.)  Waterloo,  Canada:  Department  of  Geography,  Univer- 
sity of  Waterloo,  1976. 

Peltenburg,  Edgar  (ed.).  Early  Society  in  Cyprus.  Edinburgh:  Edin- 
burgh University  Press,  1989. 


266 


Bibliography 


Polyviou,  Polyvios  G.  Cyprus:  Conflict  and  Negotiation,  1960-1980. 
New  York:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1980. 

 Cyprus:  The  Tragedy  and  the  Challenge,  Washington:  Ameri- 
can Hellenic  Institute,  1975. 

Purcell,  H.D.  Cyprus.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 

Reddaway,  John.  Burdened  with  Cyprus:  The  British  Connection.  Lon- 
don: Weidenfeld  and  Nicolson,  1986. 

Salih,  Halil  Ibrahim.  Cyprus:  An  Analysis  o/Cypriot  Political  Discord. 
Brooklyn:  T.  Gaus'  Sons,  1968. 

Stavrinides,  Zenon.  The  Cyprus  Conflict:  National  Identity  and  State- 
hood. Nicosia:  Stavrinides,  1976. 

Stern,  Laurence.  The  Wrong  Horse:  The  Politics  of  Intervention  and  the 
Failure  of  American  Diplomacy.  New  York:  New  York  Times  Books, 
1977. 

Tzermias,  Pavlos.  Geschichte  der  Republik  Zypern:  Mit  Beriicksichtigung 
der  historischen  Entwicklung  der  Insel  wahrend  der  Jahrtausende.  Tubin- 
gen, Germany:  Franke  Verlag,  1991. 

Urquhart,  Brian.  A  Life  in  Peace  and  War.  New  York:  Harper  and 
Row,  1987. 

Vanezis,  P.N.  Makarios:  Pragmatism  versus  Idealism.  London:  Abelard- 

Schuman,  1974. 
Woodhouse,  Christopher  Montague.  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  the  Greek 

Colonels.  London:  Granada,  1985. 
Xydis,  Stephen  G.  Cyprus:  Reluctant  Republic.  The  Hague:  Mou- 

ton,  1973. 


Chapter  2 

Anthias,  Floya.  "Cyprus."  Pages  184-200  in  Colin  Clarke  and 

Tony  Payne  (eds.),  Politics,  Security  and  Development  in  Small  States. 

London:  Allen  and  Unwin,  1987. 
 "Women  and  Nationalism  in  Cyprus."  Pages  150-67  in 

Nira  Yuval-Davis  and  Floya  Anthias  (eds.),  Woman — Nation — 

State.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1989. 
Anthias,  Floya,  and  Ron  Ayres.  "Ethnicity  and  Class  in  Cyprus," 

Race  and  Class  [London],  25,  No.  1,  1983,  59-76. 
Attalides,  Michael  A.  Cyprus:  Nationalism  and  International  Politics. 

New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1979. 
 Social  Change  and  Urbanization  in  Cyprus:  A  Study  of  Nicosia. 

(Publications  of  the  Social  Research  Center,  No.  2.)  Nicosia: 

Zavallis  Press,  1981. 
 "The  Turkish  Cypriots:  Their  Relations  to  the  Greek 

Cypriots  in  Perspective."  Pages  71-100  in  Michael  A.  Attalides 

(ed.),  Cyprus  Reviewed.  Nicosia:  Jus  Cypri  Association,  1977. 


267 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Beckingham,  Charles  Fraser.  "The  Cypriot  Turks,  "Journal  of  the 
Royal  Central  Asian  Society  [London],  43,  No.  2,  1956,  126-30. 
Christodoulides,  Andreas  D.  "Family  and  Youth  in  Cyprus," 
Cyprus  Review  [Nicosia],  2,  No.  1,  Spring  1990,  61-96. 

Coufoudakis,  Van.  "The  Dynamics  of  Political  Partition  and  Di- 
vision in  Multiethnic  and  Multireligious  Societies — The  Cyprus 
Case. ' '  Pages  27-49  in  Van  Coufoudakis  (ed.),  Essays  on  the  Cyprus 
Conflict.  New  York:  Pella,  1976. 

Cyprus.  Ministry  of  Finance.  Department  of  Statistics  and 
Research.  Demographic  Report,  1988.  (Population  Statistics:  Se- 
ries No.  2,  Report  No.  26.)  Nicosia:  Printing  Office  of  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  1989. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.   Department  of  Statistics  and 

Research.  Statistical  Abstract,  1987  and  1988.  (General  Statistics: 
Series  No.  1,  Report  Nos.  33-34.)  Nicosia:  Printing  Office  of 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  1989. 

Demetriades,  E.I.  "Cyprus."  Pages  217-23  in  T.  Neville  Post- 
lethwaite  (ed.),  The  Encyclopedia  of  Comparative  Education  and  Na- 
tional Systems  of  Education.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press,  1988. 

 "Cyprus:  A  System  of  Education."  Pages  1275-81  in 

T.  Neville  Postlethwaite  and  Torsten  Husen  (eds.),  The  Interna- 
tional Encyclopedia  of  Education,  2.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press,  1985. 

Deveci,  Hasan.  Cyprus,  Yesterday,  and  Today — What  Next?  London: 
Cyprus  Turkish  Association,  1976. 

Diamantides,  N.  D.,  and  S.  T.  Constantinou.  "Modeling  the 
Macrodynamics  of  International  Migration:  Determinants  of 
Emigration  from  Cyprus,  1946-85,"  Environment  and  Planning 
[London],  21,  No.  7,  July  1989,  927-50. 

Doob,  Leonard.  "Cypriot  Patriotism  and  Nationalism,"  Journal 
of  Conflict  Resolution,  30,  No.  2,  June  1986,  383-96. 

Durrell,  Lawrence.  Bitter  Lemons.  New  York:  Dutton,  1957. 

Hadjipavlou-Trigeorgis,  Maria.  "Cyprus  and  Lebanon:  A  Histor- 
ical Comparative  Study  in  Ethnic  Conflict  and  Outside  Inter- 
ference," Cyprus  Review  [Nicosia],  2,  No.  1,  Spring  1990,  97-129. 

House,  William  J.  Cypriot  Women  in  the  Labor  Market.  (Women,  Work 
and  Development,  No.  10.)  Geneva:  International  Labor  Office, 
1985. 

 Population,  Employment  Planning,  and  Labour  Force  Mobility 

in  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department 
of  Statistics  and  Research,  Printing  Office  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus,  1982. 

 .  Present  Status  and  Future  Prospects  of  Older  Workers  in  Cyprus. 

Nicosia:  Cyprus,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of  Statistics 
and  Research,  Printing  Office  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  1987. 


268 


Bibliography 


House,  William  J.,  Dora  Kyriakides,  and  Olympia  Stylianou.  The 
Changing  Status  of  Female  Workers  in  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  Cyprus,  Minis- 
try of  Finance,  Department  of  Statistics  and  Research,  Printing 
Office  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  1987. 

Ioannou,  Yiannis  E.  "Language,  Politics,  and  Identity:  An  Anal- 
ysis of  the  Cypriot  Dilemma,"  Cyprus  Review  [Nicosia],  3,  No.  1, 
Spring  1991,  15-41. 

Ismail,  Sabahattin.  1974  Oncesi-1974  Somas  (Before  1974-After 
1974).  Istanbul:  Ka§ta§  Press,  1989. 

Karoulla-Vrikkis,  Dimitra.  "The  Language  of  the  Greek  Cypri- 
ots  Today:  A  Revelation  of  an  Identity  Crisis?"  Cyprus  Review 
[Nicosia],  3,  No.  1,  Spring  1991,  42-58. 

King,  Russell,  and  Sarah  Ladbury.  "The  Cultural  Reconstruc- 
tion of  Political  Reality:  Greek  and  Turkish  Cyprus  since  1974," 
A nthropological  Quarterly,  55,  No .  1 ,  J anu ary  1982,  1-16. 

Kitromilides,  Paschalis  M.  "From  Coexistence  to  Confrontation: 
The  Dynamics  of  Ethnic  Conflict  in  Cyprus."  Pages  35-70  in 
Michael  A.  Attalides  (ed.),  Cyprus  Reviewed.  Nicosia:  Jus  Cypri 
Association,  1977. 

Kourvetaris,  George  A.  "Greek  and  Turkish  Interethnic  Conflict 
and  Polarization  in  Cyprus,  "Journal  of  Political  and  Military  So- 
ciology, 16,  No.  2,  Fall  1988,  185-99. 

Loizos,  Peter.  The  Greek  Gift:  Politics  in  a  Cypriot  Village.  Oxford: 
Blackwell,  1975. 

 The  Heart  Grown  Bitter:  A  Chronicle  of  War  Refugees.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1981. 

 "Intercommunal  Killing  in  Cyprus,"  Man  [London],  New 

Series,  23,  No.  4,  December  1988,  639-65. 

 "The  Progress  of  Greek  Nationalism  in  Cyprus,  1878- 

1970."  Pages  114-33  in  J.  Davis  (ed.),  Choice  and  Change:  Essays 
in  Honour  of  Lucy  Mair.  (London  School  of  Economics,  Monographs 
on  Social  Anthropology,  No.  50.)  London:  Athlone  Press,  1974. 

 "Violence  and  the  Family:  Some  Mediterranean  Exam- 
ples." Pages  183-96  in  J. P.  Martin  (ed.),  Violence  and  the  Fam- 
ily. Chichester,  West  Sussex,  Britain:  Wiley  and  Sons,  1978. 

Manizade,  Dervi§.  Kibns:  Dun  Bugun  Yann  (Cyprus:  Yesterday, 
Today,  Tomorrow).  Istanbul:  Yaylacik  Matbaasi,  1975. 

Markides,  Kyriacos  C.  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  the  Cyprus  Republic.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1977. 

Markides,  Kyriacos  C,  and  Steven  F.  Cohn.  "External  Con- 
flict/Internal Cohesion:  A  Reevaluation  of  an  Old  Theory," 
American  Sociological  Review,  47,  No.  1,  February  1982,  88-98. 

Markides,  Kyriacos  C,  Eleni  S.  Nikita,  and  Elengo  N.  Rangou. 
Lysi:  Social  Change  in  a  Cypriot  Village.  (Publications  of  the  Social 
Research  Center,  No.  1.)  Nicosia:  Zavallis  Press,  1978. 


269 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

Massialas,  Byron  G.  "Cyprus."  Pages  275-90  in  George  Thomas 
Kurian  (ed.),  World  Education  Encyclopedia,  1.  New  York:  Facts 
on  File,  1988. 

Moseley,  L.G.  (ed.).  Research  for  Social  Welfare:  Six  Case  Studies  in 
Cyprus.  London:  Bedford  Square  Press  of  the  National  Council 
of  Social  Service,  1979. 

Mumcu,  Ugur.  Rabita  (Connections).  Istanbul:  Tekin  Yayinevi, 
1987. 

Necatigil,  Zaim  M.  Our  Republic  in  Perspective.  Nicosia:  Tezel  Off- 
set and  Printing,  1985. 

Oberling,  Pierre.  The  Road  to  Bellapais:  The  Turkish  Cypriot  Exodus 
to  Northern  Cyprus.  (East  European  Monographs,  No.  125.)  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Social  Science  Monographs,  1982. 

Pollis,  Adamantia.  "International  Factors  and  the  Failure  of  Po- 
litical Integration  in  Cyprus."  Pages  44-83  in  Stephanie  G.  Neu- 
man  (ed.),  Small  States  and  Segmented  Societies:  National  Political 
Integration  in  a  Global  Environment.  New  York:  Praeger,  1976. 

Roussou,  Maria.  "War  in  Cyprus:  Patriarchy  and  the  Penelope 
Myth."  Pages  25-44  in  Rosemary  Ridd  and  Helen  Callaway 
(eds.),  Women  and  Political  Conflict.  New  York:  New  York  Univer- 
sity Press,  1987. 

Rustem,  K.  (ed.).  "Turkish  Republic  of  North  Cyprus."  North 
Cyprus  Almanack.  London:  K.  Rustem  and  Brother,  1987. 

St.  John-Jones,  L.  W.  The  Population  of  Cyprus:  Demographic  Trends  and  Socio- 
economic Influences.  Hounslow,  Middlesex:  Publishers  for  the  In- 
stitute of  Commonwealth  Studies  by  M.  Templeton  Smith,  1983. 

Salih,  Halil  Ibrahim.  Cyprus:  The  Impact  of  Diverse  Nationalism  on  a 
State.  University,  Alabama:  University  of  Alabama  Press,  1978. 

Sant  Cassia,  Paul.  "Patterns  of  Covert  Politics  in  Post-Independence 
Cyprus,"  Archives  Europeennes  de  Sociologie  [Paris],  24,  No.  1,  1983, 
115-35. 

 "Religion,  Politics  and  Ethnicity  in  Cyprus  During  the 

Turkocratia  (1571-1 878), ' '  Archives  Europeennes  de  Sociologie  [Paris] , 
27,  No.  1,  1986,  3-28. 

Sparsis,  Mikis.  Attila  in  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  "Proodos,"  1986. 

Stamatakis,  Nikos  A.  "History  and  Nationalism:  The  Cultural 
Reconstruction  of  Modern  Greek  Cypriot  Identity,"  Cyprus 
Review  [Nicosia],  3,  No.  1,  Spring  1991,  59-87. 

Tenzel,  James  H. ,  and  Marvin  Gerst.  "The  Psychology  of  Cross- 
Cultural  Conflict:  A  Case  Study.  (The  Psychocultural  Aspects 
of  a  Conflict.)"  (Paper  prepared  for  the  125th  Annual  Meeting 
of  the  American  Psychiatric  Association,  Dallas,  May  1,  1972.) 

"Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus."  State  Planning  Organi- 
sation. Economic  and  Social  Developments  in  the  Turkish  Republic  of 
Northern  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  1987. 


270 


Bibliography 


 State  Planning  Organisation.  Statistics  and  Research 

Department.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1986.  Nicosia:  1987. 

.  State  Planning  Organisation.  Statistics  and  Research 
Department.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1987.  Nicosia:  1988. 

 State  Planning  Organisation.  Statistics  and  Research 

Department.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1988.  Nicosia:  1989. 

United  Nations.  Secretariat.  Report  of  the  Secretary  General  on  Volun- 
tary Movement  of  Populations.  (S/l  1789.)  New  York:  September  13, 
1975. 

Volkan,  Vamik.  "The  Birds  of  Cyprus:  A  Psychopolitical  Obser- 
vation," A  merican  Journal  of  Psychotherapy,  26,  No.  3,  1972,  378- 
83. 

 "Cyprus:  Ethnic  Conflicts  and  Tensions,"  International 

Journal  of  Group  Tensions,  19,  No.  4,  Winter  1989,  297-316. 

 "Externalization  among  Cypriot  Turks,"  World  Journal 

of  Psychosynthesis,  5,  No.  3,  March  1973,  24-30. 

 The  Need  to  Have  Enemies  and  Allies.  Northvale,  New  Jer- 
sey: Aronson,  1988. 

 War  and  Adaptation:  A  Psychoanalytic  History  of  Two  Ethnic 

Groups  in  Conflict.  Charlottesville:  University  Press  of  Virginia, 
1979. 

Walker,  Anita  M.  "Enosis  in  Cyprus:  Dhali,  A  Case  Study,"  Mid- 
dle East  Journal,  38,  No.  3,  Summer  1984,  474-94. 

Worsley,  Peter.  "Communalism  and  Nationalism  in  Small  Coun- 
tries: The  Case  of  Cyprus."  Pages  9-24  in  Peter  Worsley  (ed.), 
Small  States  in  the  Modern  World:  Conditions  of  Survival.  Manchester: 
University  of  Manchester,  1976. 

Yesilada,  Birol.  "Social  Progress  and  Political  Development  in  the 
Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus."  Cyprus  Review  [Nico- 
sia], 1,  No.  2,  Fall  1989,  90-113. 

Zetter,  Roger.  "Rehousing  the  Greek-Cypriot  Refugees  from  1974: 
Dependency,  Assimilation,  Politicisation."  Pages  106-25  in  John 
T.A.  Koumoulides  (ed.),  Cyprus  in  Transition:  1960-1985.  Lon- 
don: Trigraph,  1986. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publication  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Kuzey  Kibris  [Nicosia].) 

Chapter  3 

Andronikou,  Antonios.  Development  of  Tourism  in  Cyprus,  Harmoni- 
zation of  Tourism  with  the  Environment.  Nicosia:  Cosmos,  1987. 


271 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

"Bakanlar  Kurulu  Kararlarve  1990  Yili  Program"  (The  Decision 
of  the  Cabinet  Ministers  and  the  1990  Program),  Resmi  Gazete 
[Nicosia],  October  1,  1989. 

Center  for  Business  and  Economic  Research  of  the  Eastern  Medi- 
terranean University  and  Cyprus  Turkish-German  Cultural  As- 
sociation. Structural  Changes  in  the  Economy  of  North  Cyprus. 
Famagusta,  Cyprus:  1990. 

Central  Bank  of  Cyprus.  Annual  Report,  1988.  Nicosia:  1989. 

 Annual  Report,  1989.  Nicosia:  1990. 

 Bulletin,  103.  Nicosia:  1989. 

 A  Centre  for  International  Business.  Nicosia:  1989. 

-  "Developments  in  the  Cyprus  Economy  During  1988  and 
Prospects  for  1989."  (Research  paper.)  Nicosia:  1989. 

 Eight  Speeches  on  Business  Opportunities.  Nicosia:  1989. 

 A  Guide  for  Foreign  Investors.  Nicosia:  1989. 

 A  Guide  to  Shipping.  Nicosia:  1990. 

 The  Republic  of  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  1989. 

Christodoulou,  C.A.  "Optimizing  Limited  Resources:  Cyprus' 
Southern  Conveyor  Water  Development  Project."  Pages  27-44 
in  Adel  Salman  (ed.),  Agriculture  in  the  Middle  East:  Challenges  and 
Possibilities.  New  York:  Paragon  House,  1990. 

Coufoudakis,  Van  (ed.).  Essays  on  the  Cyprus  Conflict.  New  York: 
Pella,  1976. 

Cyprus.  Electricity  Authority.  A nnual  Report,  1988.  Nicosia:  1989. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.  Economic  Report,  1970.  Nicosia:  Print- 
ing Office  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  1971. 

 Ministry  of  Finance.  Economic  Report  (Annuals  1977 

through  1987).  Nicosia:  Printing  Office  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus,  1979  through  1989. 

 Official  Gazette  of  the  Republic.  Main  Provisions  of  the 

Cyprus — E.E.C.  Customs  Union  Agreement.  Nicosia:  Press  and  In- 
formation Office,  1987. 

 Press  and  Information  Office.  Cyprus:  EC  Relations.  Nico- 
sia: 1989. 

 Press  and  Information  Office.  Cyprus:  Republic  of  Cyprus — 

30  Years,  1960-1990.  Nicosia:  1990. 
 Press  and  Information  Office.  The  Cyprus  Economy  in  1988 

and  Prospects  for  the  Immediate  Future.  Nicosia:  1989. 
 Press  and  Information  Office.  Offshore  Enterprise.  Nicosia: 

1989. 

 Press  and  Information  Office.  President  George  Vassiliou  on 

Fiscal  Policy.  Nicosia:  November  3,  1988. 

 Telecommunications  Authority.  Annual  Report,  1988.  Nico- 
sia: 1989. 


272 


Bibliography 


 Tourism  Organisation.  Annual  Report,  1986.  Nicosia:  1987. 

Cyprus  Development  Bank.  Consumption  Expenditures  in  Cyprus:  An 
Empirical  Analysis.  Nicosia:  1988. 

 .  The  Cyprus  Economy:  Forecasts  for  1988-1990.  Nicosia:  Sep- 
tember 1988. 

 .  Economic  and  Business  Profile  of  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  April  1989. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Lebanon,  Cyprus, 
1986-87.  London:  1986. 

 .  Country  Profile:  Lebanon,  Cyprus,  1987-88.  London:  1987. 

 Country  Profile:  Lebanon,  Cyprus,  1988-89.  London:  1988. 

 Country  Profile:  Lebanon,  Cyprus,  1989-90.  London:  1989. 

 Country  Profile:  Lebanon,  Cyprus,  1990-91.  London:  1990. 

 Country  Profile:  Lebanon,  Cyprus,  1991-92.  London:  1991. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1989,  1.  London:  Europa,  1989. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  1.  London:  Europa,  1990. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1991,  1.  London:  Europa,  1991. 

Fadil,  Magda  Abu.  "A  Bit  of  Britain  in  the  Med,"  Middle  East 
[London],  No.  182,  December  1989,  18-19. 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Statistisches  Bundesamt.  Lander- 
bericht  Zypern,  1986.  Wiesbaden,  1986. 

"Focus  on  Cyprus,"  World  Development  [Oxford],  1,  No.  9,  Sep- 
tember 1973,  69-79. 

Henderson,  Celia.  Cyprus:  The  Country  and  Its  People.  London:  Queen 
Ann,  1968. 

Hudson,  John,  and  Marina  Dymiotou-Jensen.  Modelling  a  Developing 
Country:  A  Case  Study  of  Cyprus.  Aldershot,  Hampshire,  United 
Kingdom:  Avebury,  1989. 

Ismail,  Sabahattin.  1974  Oncesi-1974  Somas  (Before  1974-After 
1974).  Istanbul:  Ka§ta§,  1989. 

Kamanardies,  John  S.  The  Cyprus  Economy:  A  Case  in  the  Industriali- 
zation Process.  Nicosia:  Socrates,  1973. 

Karouzis,  George.  Land  Ownership  in  Cyprus,  Past,  and  Present,  with 
Special  Reference  to  Greek  and  Turkish  Ownerships.  Nicosia:  Strabo, 
1977. 

Kondonassis,  Alex  J.  "The  European  Economic  Community  in 
the  Mediterranean:  Developments  and  Prospects  on  a  Mediter- 
ranean Policy."  (Research  Papers,  No.  4.)  Athens:  Center  of 
Planning  and  Economic  Research,  1976. 

Lavender,  David.  The  Story  of  Cyprus  Mines  Corporation.  Hunting- 
ton Library:  San  Marino,  California,  1962. 

Leontiades,  Leontios.  "Developing  Forestry  under  Middle  East 
Conditions:  The  Cyprus  Experience."  Pages  335-50  in  Adel 
Salman  (ed.),  Agriculture  in  the  Middle  East:  Challenges  and  Possi- 
bilities. New  York:  Paragon  House,  1990. 


273 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 

The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1990.  London:  Europa,  1991. 

The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1991.  London:  Europa,  1991. 

Riistem,  K.  (ed.).  ' 'Turkish  Republic  of  North  Cyprus."  North 
Cyprus  Almanack.  London:  K.  Riistem  and  Brother,  1987. 

The  Stateman's  Yearbook,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  John  Paxton.)  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1989. 

The  Stateman's  Yearbook,  1990-91.  (Ed.,  John  Paxton.)  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1990. 

The  Stateman's  Yearbook,  1991-92.  (Ed.,  Brian  Hunter.)  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1991. 

Syrimis,  G.  "Address  Before  the  House  of  Representatives  on  the 
Occasion  of  the  Debate  on  the  Budgets  for  1989."  Nicosia:  Press 
and  Information  Office,  December  8,  1988. 

 "Address  Before  the  House  of  Representatives  on  the  Oc- 
casion of  the  Debate  on  the  Budgets  for  1990."  Nicosia:  Press 
and  Information  Office,  November  16,  1989. 

Thirgood,  J.V.  Cyprus:  A  Chronicle  of  Its  Forests,  Land,  and  People. 
Vancouver:  University  of  British  Columbia,  1987. 

"Turkish  Federated  State  of  Cyprus."  State  Planning  Organisa- 
tion. Statistical  Yearbook,  1978.  Nicosia:  1979. 

"Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus."  North  Cyprus  Almanack. 
London:  K.  Riistem  and  Brother,  1987. 

 State  Planning  Organisation.  Economic  and  Social  Develop- 
ments in  the  Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus.  Nicosia,  1987. 

 State  Planning  Organisation.  Statistics  and  Research 

Department.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1986.  Nicosia:  1987. 

 State  Planning  Organisation.  Statistics  and  Research 

Department.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1987.  Nicosia:  1988. 

United  States.  Department  of  Commerce,  International  Trade  Ad- 
ministration. Foreign  Economic  Trends  and  Their  Implications  for  the 
United  States:  Cyprus.  Washington:  GPO,  October  1989. 

Uras,  Giingor.  "Notes  on  the  Economy  of  Cyprus."  Pages  120-32 
in  SISAV  (ed.),  The  Political  and  Economic  Problems  of  the  Turkish 
Community  of  Cyprus  in  the  International  Field.  Istanbul:  Fatih  Genclik 
Vakti  Matbaa  isktmesi,  1986. 

Weaver,  Mary  Anne.  "Report  From  Cyprus,"  New  Yorker,  66, 
August  6,  1990,  65-66,  68-72,  74-81. 

Yesilada,  Birol.  "Social  Progress  and  Political  Development  in  the 
Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  Cyprus  Review  [Nico- 
sia], 1,  No.  2,  Fall  1989,  90-113. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Economist  [London];  Economist  In- 
telligence Unit,  Country  Report:  Lebanon,  Cyprus  [London];  Guardian 


274 


Bibliography 


[London];  Neue  Zurcher  Zeitung  [Zurich];  Sunday  Times  [London]; 
Times  [London].) 

Chapter  4 

Adams,  Thomas  W.  AKEL:  The  Communist  Party  of  Cyprus.  (Hoover 
Institution  Studies,  No.  27.)  Stanford:  Hoover  Institution  Press, 
1971. 

Bahcheli,  Tozun.  Greek-Turkish  Relations  since  1955.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1990. 

Bendahmane,  Diane,  and  John  W.  McDonald,  Jr.  (eds.).  Perspec- 
tives on  Negotiation:  Four  Case  Studies  and  Interpretations.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1986. 

Birand,  Mehmet  Ali.  "A  Turkish  View  of  Greek-Turkish  Rela- 
tions," Journal  of  Political  and  Military  Sociology,  16,  No.  2,  Fall 
1988,  173-83. 

Crawshaw,  Nancy.  '  'Cyprus:  A  Failure  in  Western  Diplomacy." 
World  Today  [London],  40,  No.  2,  February  1984,  73-78. 

 "A  New  President  for  Cyprus."  World  Today  [London], 

44,  No.  5,  May  1988,  74-76. 

Cyprus:  International  Law  and  the  Prospects  for  Settlement.  (Proceedings, 
78th  Annual  Meeting  of  the  American  Society  of  International 
Law,  Washington,  April  12-14,  1984.) 

Denktash  [DenktasJ,  Rauf  R.  The  Cyprus  Triangle.  London:  K. 
Rustem  and  Brother,  1982. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1991,  1.  London:  Europa,  1991. 

Groom,  A.J.R.  1  'Cyprus,  Greece  and  Turkey:  A  Treadmill  for 
Diplomacy."  Pages  126-56  in  John  T.A.  Koumoulides  (ed.), 
Cyprus  in  Transition,  1960-85.  London:  Trigraph,  1986. 

Haass,  Richard  N.  '  'Cyprus:  Moving  Beyond  Solution,"  Washing- 
ton Quarterly,  10,  No.  2,  Spring  1987,  183-90. 

Hitchens,  Christopher.  Cyprus.  London:  Quartet  Books,  1984. 

Jacobs,  Francis  (ed.).  "Cyprus."  Pages  500-19  in  Francis  Jacobs 
(ed.),  Western  European  Political  Parties:  A  Comprehensive  Guide. 
Harlow,  Essex,  United  Kingdom:  Longman,  1989. 

Kemp,  Peter.  "MEED  Special  Report:  Cyprus."  Middle  East  Eco- 
nomic Digest  [London],  33,  September  21,  1989,  9-10,  13-14. 

Koumoulides,  John  T.A.  (ed.).  Cyprus  in  Transition,  1960-1985. 
London:  Trigraph,  1986. 

Kyle,  Keith.  Cyprus.  (Report  No.  30.)  London:  Minority  Rights 
Group,  1984. 

Kyriakides,  Stanley.  Cyprus:  Constitutionalism  and  Crisis  Government. 
Philadelphia:  University  of  Pennsylvania  Press,  1968. 


275 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Lafreniere,  Francois,  and  Robert  Mitchell.  "Cyprus:  Visions  for 
the  Future. ' '  (A  Summary  of  Conference  and  Workshop  Proceed- 
ings, November  1988  to  June  1989.)  (Working  Paper  No.  21.) 
Ottawa:  Canadian  Institute  for  International  Peace  and  Secu- 
rity, 1991. 

Laipson,  Ellen  B.  "Cyprus:  A  Quarter  Century  of  US  Policy." 
Pages  54-81  in  John  T.  A.  Koumoulides  (ed.),  Cyprus  in  Transi- 
tion, 1960-1985.  London:  Trigraph,  1986. 

McCaskill,  Charles.  "U.S. -Greek  Relations  and  the  Problems  of 
the  Aegean  and  Cyprus,"  Journal  of  Political  and  Military  Sociol- 
ogy, 16,  No.  2,  Fall  1988,  215-31. 

McDonald,  Robert.  "International  Implications  of  Ethnic  Con- 
flict in  Cyprus."  (Paper  presented  at  ICES  workshop  on  Inter- 
nationalization of  Ethnic  Conflict,  Colombo,  Sri  Lanka,  August 
1989.) 

 The  Problem  of  Cyprus.  (Adelphi  Papers,  No.  234.)  Lon- 
don: Brassey's  for  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies, 
1989. 

Markides,  Kyriacos  C.  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  the  Cyprus  Republic.  New 
Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1977. 

The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1991.  London:  Europa,  1990. 

Necatigil,  Zaim  M.  The  Cyprus  Conflict:  A  Lawyer's  View.  Nicosia: 
K.  Riistem  and  Brother,  1981. 

 .  The  Cyprus  Question  and  the  Turkish  Position  in  International 

Law.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1989. 

 "The  Judicial  System  of  the  Turkish  Republic  of  North- 
ern Cyprus."  Northern  Cyprus  Monthly  [Nicosia],  November  15, 
1989,  13-15. 

Oberling,  Pierre.  The  Cyprus  Tragedy.  London:  K.  Riistem  and 
Brother,  1989. 

Political  Handbook  of  the  World,  1991  (Ed.,  Arthur  S.  Banks).  Bing- 

hamton,  New  York:  CSA,  1991. 
Polyviou,  Polyvios  G.  Cyprus — In  Search  of  a  Constitution.  Nicosia: 

Chr.  Nicoaou  and  Sons,  1976. 
Riistem,  K.  (ed.).  North  Cyprus  Almanack.  London:  K.  Riistem  and 

Brother,  1987. 

Sophocleous,  Andreas  C,  and  Panayiotis  Papademetris.  Mass  Media 
in  Cyprus.  Nicosia:  Republic  of  Cyprus,  Press  and  Information 
Office,  1991. 

Souter,  David.  "The  Cyprus  Conundrum."  Third  World  Quarterly 

[London],  11,  No.  2,  April  1989,  76-91. 
 "An  Island  Apart:  A  Review  of  the  Cyprus  Problem." 

Third  World  Quarterly  [London],  6,  No.  3,  July  1984,  657-74. 


276 


Bibliography 


The  Statesman's  Yearbook,  1990-91  (Ed.,  John  Paxton).  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1990. 

Tsardanidis,  Charalambos.  ' 'The  EC-Cyprus  Association  Agree- 
ment: Ten  Years  of  a  Troubled  Relationship,  1 973- 1983,"  Jour- 
nal of  Common  Market  Studies  [Oxford],  22,  No.  4,  June  1984, 
351-76. 

 "The  European  Community  and  the  Cyprus  Problem 

since  1974."  Journal  of  Political  and  Military  Sociology,  1 6 ,  No .  2 , 
Fall  1988,  155-71. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1991.  Washington:  GPO,  1991. 

 _.  Congress.  98th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Status  of  Negotiations  on  the  Cyprus 
Dispute  and  Recent  Developments  in  Cyprus.  Washington:  GPO,  1984. 

 Congress.  100th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Greek-Turkish  Relations:  Beginning 
of  a  New  Era?  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 Congress.  101st,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  New  Opportunities  for  U.S.  Policy  in  the  Eastern 
Mediterranean:  A  Staff  Report  to  the  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations. 
Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

Weaver,  Mary  Anne.  "Report  from  Cyprus,"  New  Yorker,  66,  Au- 
gust 6,  1990,  65-66,  68-72,  74-81. 


Chapter  5 

Adams,  T.W.  "Cyprus."  Pages  459-61  in  Richard  F.  Staar  (ed.), 

1988  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs.  Stanford:  Hoover 

Institution  Press,  1988. 
"Cyprus."  Pages  268-74  in  Gregory  R.  Copley  (ed.),  Defense  and 

Foreign  Affairs  Handbook.  Alexandria,  Virginia:  International 

Media,  1989. 

"Defense  Ministry  on  New  Armed  Civil  Guard,"  Foreign  Broad- 
cast Information  Service,  Western  Europe.  (FBIS-WEU-89-057.) 
March  27,  1989,  34-35. 

Dyer,  Gwynne.  "Cyprus."  Pages  135-40  in  John  Keegan  (ed.), 
World  Armies.  Detroit,  Michigan:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

Foss,  Christopher  F.  "Cypriot  Rearmament  Completed,  "Jane's 
Defence  Weekly  [London],  10,  No.  9,  March  12,  1988,  445. 

Fursdon,  Edward.  "UNFICYP,"  Defense  and  Diplomacy  [United 
States],  7,  No.  12,  December  1989,  46-51. 

James,  Alan.  "The  UN  force  in  Cyprus,"  International  Affairs  [Lon- 
don], 65,  No.  3,  Summer  1989,  481-500. 


277 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Kyle,  Keith.  Cyprus.  (Report  No.  30.)  London:  Minority  Rights 
Group,  1984. 

Laipson,  Ellen  B.  Cyprus:  Status  of  U.N.  Negotiations.  Library  of  Con- 
gress, Congressional  Research  Service.  Washington:  1990. 

"Law  on  Internal  Organization  of  Police  Department,"  Resmi  Gazete 
[Nicosia],  August  25,  1986.  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Ser- 
vice, West  Europe  Report.  (FBIS-WER-87-035.)  April  27,  1987, 
28-97. 

McDonald,  Robert.  The  Problem  of  Cyprus.  (Adelphi  Papers, 

No.  234.)  London:  Brassey's  for  the  International  Institute  for 

Strategic  Studies,  1989. 
Maclnnis,  J. A.  "Cyprus — Canada's  Perpetual  Vigil,"  Canadian 

Defence  Quarterly  [Toronto],  19,  No.  1,  August  1989,  21-26. 
The  Military  Balance,  1989-90.  London:  International  Institute  for 

Strategic  Studies,  1989. 
Mitchell,  Robert.  Peacekeeping  and  Peacemaking  in  Cyprus.  (Background 

Paper  No.  23.)  Ottowa:  Canadian  Institute  for  International 

Peace  and  Security,  1988. 
Rustem,  K.  (ed.).  North  Cyprus  Almanack.  London:  K.  Riistem  and 

Brother,  1987. 

Tyler,  Patrick  E.  "Smugglers,  Gun  Runners,  Spies  Cross  Paths 
in  Cyprus,"  Washington  Post,  March  12,  1987,  A29,  A36. 

United  Nations  Security  Council.  Report  of  the  Secretary- General  on 
the  United  Nations  Operation  in  Cyprus  (for  the  period  June  1 -De- 
cember 4,  1989).  New  York:  1989. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Armed  Transfers  1988.  Washington:  GPO, 
1989. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Office  of 

Public  Communication.  Background  Notes:  Cyprus.  (Department 
of  State  Publication  No.  7932.)  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1989.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
2d  Session,  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1990. 

 Department  of  State.  International  Narcotics  Control  Strategy 

Report.  Washington:  1990. 

 Department  of  State.  Patterns  of  Global  Terrorism,  1988. 

Washington:  1989. 

Weaver,  Mary  Anne.  "Report  from  Cyprus,"  New  Yorker,  66,  Au- 
gust 6,  1990,  65-66,  68-72,  74-81. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service, 


278 


Bibliography 


Daily  Report:  Western  Europe;  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London];  Joint 
Publications  Research  Service,  Translations  on  Western  Europe;  Kees- 
ing's  Record  of  World  Events  [London];  New  York  Times;  and  Washington 
Post. 


279 


Glossary 


Cyprus  pound — (C£) — Republic  of  Cyprus  monetary  unit  consist- 
ing of  100  cents.  At  independence  C£l  was  worth  US$2.80. 
The  average  annual  exchange  rate  for  C£l  in  1979  was 
US$2.82;  in  1982,  US$2.11;  in  1985,  US$1.64;  in  1986, 
US$1.94;  in  1987,  US$2.08;  in  1988,  US$2.14;  in  1989, 
US$2.03;  and  in  1990,  US$2.19. 

European  Community  (EC — also  commonly  called  the  Commu- 
nity)— The  EC  comprises  three  communities:  the  European  Coal 
and  Steel  Community  (ECSC),  the  European  Economic  Com- 
munity (EEC,  also  known  as  the  Common  Market),  and  the 
European  Atomic  Energy  Community  (EURATOM).  Each 
community  is  a  legally  distinct  body,  but  since  1967  they  have 
shared  common  governing  institutions.  The  EC  forms  more  than 
a  framework  for  free  trade  and  economic  cooperation:  the  sig- 
natories to  the  treaties  governing  the  communities  have  agreed 
in  principle  to  integrate  their  economies  and  ultimately  to  form 
a  political  union.  Belgium,  France,  Italy,  Luxembourg,  the 
Netherlands,  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many) are  charter  members  of  the  EC.  Britain,  Denmark,  and 
Ireland  joined  on  January  1,  1973;  Greece  became  a  member 
on  January  1,  1981;  and  Portugal  and  Spain  entered  on  Janu- 
ary 1,  1986.  Cyprus  became  an  associate  member  in  June  1973. 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC) — See  European  Com- 
munity. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — The  total  value  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during  a  given  peri- 
od, usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value  contributed 
by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits,  compen- 
sation to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of  capi- 
tal). Most  GDP  usage  in  this  book  was  based  on  GDP  at  factor 
cost.  Real  GDP  is  the  value  of  GDP  when  inflation  has  been 
taken  into  account. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Obtained  by  adding  GDP  (q.  v. ) 
and  the  income  received  from  abroad  by  residents  less  pay- 
ments remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents.  Real  GNP  is  the  value 
of  GNP  when  inflation  has  been  taken  into  account. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.  v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  takes  responsibility  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 


281 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers when  they  experience  balance  of  payment  difficulties. 
These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  in- 
ternal economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 
Latin — See  Roman  Catholic. 

Roman  Catholic — In  historical  use,  the  Latin  Church  refers  to  the 
western  wing  of  Christianity  using  Latin  as  its  liturgical  lan- 
guage, jurisdictionally  related  to  the  bishop  of  Rome  (the  pope) 
rather  than  one  of  the  other  patriarchs,  and  generally  cor- 
responding to  the  area  of  the  Western  Roman  Empire  rather 
than  the  Eastern  Roman  or  Byzantine  section.  After  the  Great 
Schism  of  1054,  those  churches  accepting  papal  authority  be- 
came known  as  Catholic  in  contrast  to  the  Orthodox;  the  vast 
majority  of  these  were  Latin  rite  or  Roman  Catholic.  Since 
the  religious  conflict  in  Lusignan  and  Venetian  Cyprus  was 
as  much  cultural  as  one  of  hierarchical  structure,  Roman 
Catholics  have  continued  to  be  known  in  Cyprus  as  Latins; 
the  term  also  is  used  to  distinguish  the  descendants  of  the  former 
Lusignan  and  Venetian  elites  from  Greek  Cypriots. 

Turkish  lira  (TL) — Monetary  unit  used  in  "Turkish  Republic  of 
Northern  Cyprus."  Also  known  as  Turkish  pound.  Consists 
of  100  kurus.  In  terms  of  the  United  States  dollar,  the  annual 
average  exchange  rate  was  TL19.3  in  1977,  TL76.0  in  1980, 
TL522.0  in  1985,  TL674.5  in  1986,  TL857.2  in  1987, 
TL1,422.3  in  1988,  TL2,121.7  in  1980,  and  TL2,608.6  in 
1990. 

Value-added  tax  (VAT) — A  tax  applied  to  the  additional  value 
created  at  a  given  stage  of  production  and  calculated  as  a  per- 
centage of  the  difference  between  the  product  value  at  that  stage 
and  the  cost  of  all  materials  and  services  purchased  as  inputs. 
The  VAT  is  the  primary  form  of  indirect  taxation  applied  in 
the  EEC  (q.v.),  and  it  is  the  basis  of  each  country's  contribu- 
tion to  the  community  budget. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  of 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  ad- 
ministered by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  fur- 
nish credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  easier 
terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  found- 
ed in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through 


282 


Glossary 


loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage  the 
growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less  developed  coun- 
tries. The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the  IBRD 
hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The  three  institutions  are 
owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their 
capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group,  member  states 
must  first  belong  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (q.v.). 


283 


Index 


ABC  Plan,  176-77,  203,  204;  opposition 

to,  177 
abortion,  59 
Abu  Nidal,  224 

ACDA.  See  United  States  Arms  Control 

and  Disarmament  Agency 
Achaean  Coast,  5 

Achaeans:  as  settlers,  5;  trade  with,  5-7 
Acheson,  Dean,  36 
Acheson  Plan,  36,  40 
ADISOK.  See  Democratic  Socialist  Re- 
newal Movement 
Aegean  Islands,  4 

AFL-CIO.  See  American  Federation  of 
Labor-Congress  of  Industrial  Organi- 
zations 
Africa:  trade  with,  157 
Agricultural  Bank,  122 
agricultural  cooperatives,  64,  122,  149 
Agricultural  Research  Institute,  111,  119 
agricultural   products,    117,  122-24; 
barley,  53,  149;  cereal,  117,  123,  149; 
citrus,  117,  123,  145,  149;  exports  of, 
140,  141,  149,  150;  fruit,  123,  149; 
grapes,  123-24,  149,  150;  industrial, 
150;  legumes,  123;  potatoes,  123,  150; 
production,  122;  tree  crops,  123,  149, 
150;  value  added,  122;  vegetables,  123; 
wheat,  53 

agricultural  work,  68;  part-time,  119; 
Turkish  Cypriots  in,  90,  141 

agriculture,  109,  110,  116-19,  146-47; 
land  for,  148;  employment  in,  89,  108, 
117,  145;  flight  from,  62-63;  moderni- 
zation of,  62,  147;  as  percentage  of 
GDP,  62,  109,  116,  117,  146,  147,  149; 
productivity,  111;  subsidies  for,  113, 
117,  123;  in  "Turkish  Republic  of 
Northern  Cyprus,"  146-47,  149;  un- 
employment in,  117 

airports,  111,  115,  134,  156,  234 

AKEL.  See  Progressive  Party  of  the  Work- 
ing People 

Akinci,  Mustafa,  196 

Akinci,  Sabahattin,  231 

Akritas  Plan,  34-35 

Akrotiri  Sovereign  Base  Area,  xxii,  32, 
233 


Alexander,  9 
Alexander  IV  (pope),  13 
Alexander  the  Great,  54 
Aloneftis,  Andreas,  226,  228,  231 
Amathus:  as  city-kingdom,  8;  as  Roman 
district,  9 

American  Federation  of  Labor-Congress 
of  Industrial  Organizations  (AFL- 
CIO),  146 

Ananeotiko  Dimokratiko  Sosialistiko 
Kinima  (ADISOK).  ^Democratic  So- 
cialist Renewal  Movement 

Anatolia,  4 

ancient  period,  5-10;  crafts  in,  5;  in- 
fluence of  Crete  on,  5;  trade  in,  5 

Anglican  Church.  See  Church  of  England 

Annual  Development  Budget,  143 

Anorthotikon  Komma  Ergazomenou 
Laou  (AKEL).  See  Progressive  Party  of 
the  Working  People 

Antioch:  patriarch  of,  10,  11 

Aoun,  Michel,  224 

Aphrodite,  7 

Arab  countries,  208,  209;  exports  to,  129, 
140,  150-52;  imports  from,  140 

Arab-Israeli  issues,  207 

Arabs:  attacks  by,  12 

armed  forces  (see  also  National  Guard), 
224-33;  foreign,  225;  home  guard,  228; 
Turkish  Cypriots  in,  167 

Armenians,  57,  221;  ancestors  of,  57;  un- 
der 1960  constitution,  165 

Asha  (Pasakoy),  231 

Asia:  trade  with,  157,  158 

Asia  Minor,  50 

Assyrian  rule,  8,  224 

Atakol,  Kenan,  232 

Atatiirk,  Kemal,  87;  influence  of,  on 
Turkish  Cypriots,  96,  98;  opposition  to, 
99;  reforms  of,  88,  98,  99;  "Six  Ar- 
rows" of,  87 

Athens:  pro-enosis  demonstrations  in, 
29 

Athens  University,  28 

Attila  Line,  43,  220 

Atun,  Hakki,  xxix 

Augustus  (emperor),  9 

Australia:  emigration  to,  60,  61,  84 


285 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Austria:  in  United  Nations  Peace-keeping 
Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  236 


balance  of  payments,  140-41;  deficit,  138 
Bangladesh,  209 

banking,  111,  122,  137,  149,  154-55 

Bank  of  Cyprus,  137 

Barnabas  (apostle),  3;  missionary  work  of, 
10;  tomb  of,  3,  11 

Bartholemew,  Reginald,  204 

Basic  Principles,  38 

baslik  parasi,  91 

Battle  of  Issus,  9 

Battle  of  Lepanto,  17 

Bayrak  Radio  and  Television  Corpora- 
tion, 157 

Bellapais,  152 

Berengaria  of  Navarre,  12,  13 

Bese§ler,  Aytac,  197 

Bitter  Lemons  (Durrell),  50 

Boghaz  (Bogaz),  152 

Boston  University,  26 

Boutros-Ghali,  Boutros,  xxx 

Bozkurt,  ismail,  196,  198 

Brazil:  materiel  from,  229,  231 

Britain,  xxi,  4,  215;  aid  from,  21-22; 
emigration  to,  60,  61,  84;  exports  to, 
140,  158;  imports  from,  140,  158;  in- 
tervention by,  169,  216;  involvement 
of,  in  intercommunal  talks,  176;  loans 
by,  to  Cyprus,  21 ;  loans  by,  to  Turkey, 
20-21;  military  bases  of,  on  Cyprus, 
xxii,  32,  62,  224,  225;  military  troops 
of,  on  Cyprus,  117,  233;  police  train- 
ing in,  238;  relations  with,  200;  in  Unit- 
ed Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in 
Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  216,  236;  univer- 
sity students  in,  75,  101 

British  Army,  225,  233,  234 

British  Commonwealth,  34 

British  Empire,  4 

British  rule,  xxi,  3,  19-32,  225;  annexa- 
tion under,  21-23;  as  cause  of  inter- 
communal conflict,  xxv,  85,  86; 
Church  of  Cyprus  under,  22-23,  25; 
civil  service  under,  23;  commencement 
of,  4,  19-20;  dictatorial  phase  of,  22; 
economic  growth  under,  23;  education 
under,  23,  57,  72,  73,  99;  enosis  un- 
der, xxiv,  20,  55;  Evkaf  Idaresi  under, 
97;  government  of,  25;  Greek  Cypriot 
nationalism  under,  20;  improvement  of 


infrastructure  under,  23,  147;  indepen- 
dence from,  xxi,  3,  4,  32;  land  use  un- 
der, 148;  loans  by,  to  Cyprus,  21;  in 
medieval  period,  55;  modernization  un- 
der, 23;  religion  under,  71;  seculariza- 
tion under,  98;  social  welfare  under, 
103;  taxes  under,  22;  trade  under,  23; 
villages  under,  186 

Bronze  Age,  7 

budget  deficits,  110,  113 

Buffavento,  152 

buffer  zone,  xxxii,  172,  220-21,  222,  236 

Bulla  Cypria,  13-14 

business  services,  xxvi,  135 

Buyukunal,  Bilgi,  232 

Byzantine  rule,  10-13,  54;  government 
in,  11;  legacy  of,  54-55;  religion  un- 
der, 10-11,  54-55;  serfs  under,  11;  so- 
cial structure  under,  11 

Byzantium  {see  also  Constantinople),  10, 
54 


cabinet.  See  Council  of  Ministers 

Camillion,  Oscar,  181 

Canada:  involvement  of,  in  intercom- 
munal talks,  176;  in  United  Nations 
Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus 
(UNFICYP),  216,  236 

Carter,  Jimmy,  176 

CCB.  See  Cooperative  Central  Bank 

cehiz,  92 

censuses,  58,  84 
Central  Bank  of  Cyprus,  111 
Central  Bank  of  North  Cyprus,  154 
Central  Land  Consolidation  Authority, 
120 

Chapman,  Christian,  204 
Charlotte,  16 

child  care  (see  also  day  care),  82,  88,  93, 
103 

Christianity  (see  also  under  individual  sects): 
introduction  of,  3,  10;  predominance 
of,  10;  under  Ottoman  rule,  17-18,  55 

Christian  Maronite  Church,  96 

Chrysostomos  (archbishop),  71,  164,  189 

Churchill,  Winston,  21,  24 

Church  of  Cyprus  (see  also  Christianity; 
Greek  Orthodox  church),  3,  49,  70;  at- 
tempts by,  to  overthrow  Makarios,  41 ; 
clergy  in,  3,  22-23,  41,  55,  57,  71;  un- 
der British  rule,  22-23,  25;  contribu- 
tions of,  to  defense  spending,  230;  and 


286 


Index 


enosis,  26,  55;  and  Greek  nationalism, 
19;  independence  for,  54,  70;  land 
owned  by,  119;  monasteries  of,  71-72; 
monks  in,  72;  structure  of,  71;  ritual 
in,  72;  role  of,  in  millets,  18;  secular  in- 
fluence of,  11-12,  18,  26,  187,  189; 
services  of,  72;  and  state,  connection 
between,  11;  status  of,  10 

Church  of  England,  96 

Cicero,  9 

Cilicia,  12 

civil  service  {see  also  public  sector),  191; 
under  British  rule,  23;  ethnic  ratio  in, 
167,  168,  169;  Turkish  Cypriots  in,  83, 
84,  90,  141,  143,  145,  167 

class  structure,  64-65,  90 

Claudius,  10 

clergy  {see  also  Makarios),  71;  election  of, 

22-23;  as  ethnarch,  3,  57;  exiled  by 

British,  22;  reduction  of  power  of,  41; 

role  of,  3,  55 
Clerides,  Glafkos,  xxvii,  xxviii,  38,  40, 

44;  as  acting  president,  43,  174,  189; 

as  party  leader,  186,  206;  talks  of,  with 

Denkta§  174-75,  177 
climate,  53-54;  rainfall,  53,  147,  148,  149 
College  of  Forestry,  75,  125 
commercial  class,  64 
Committee  for  Cyprus  Autonomy,  23 
Committee  on  Missing  Persons,  179 
Commonwealth:  membership  in,  200 
Communal  Chambers,  33,  168 
Communal  Liberation  Party  (TKP), 

xxix,  45,  196,  198,  199 
communists,  30,  187,  217;  parties  of,  24 
community  centers,  81 
community,  social,  and  personal  services, 

138 

commuting,  63,  64,  90 
Comnenos,  Isaac,  12;  deposed,  13 
Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation 

in  Europe  (CSCE):  membership  in, 

200;  role  in,  201 
conscription,  217,  226,  233 
Constans  (emperor),  12 
Constantia  {see  also  Salamis),  12 
Constantine,  10 
Constantine  (king),  21 
Constantinople  {see  also  Byzantium),  10 
Constituent  Assembly  ("TRNC"),  193 
constitution:  proposals  for  (1948),  25; 

proposals  for  (1955),  31 


Constitutional  Commission  ("TRNC"), 
193 

constitution  of  1882,  21 

constitution  of  1960,  165-67;  branches  of 
government  under,  165,  184;  collapse 
of,  167-70;  cabinet  under,  185;  educa- 
tion under,  74;  executive  under, 
165-66,  185;  instituted,  33;  judiciary 
under,  166,  185;  legislature  under,  166, 
185;  military  under,  225-26;  minori- 
ties under,  165;  proposals  to  amend, 
163,  169;  Turkish  Cypriots  under,  165 

construction,  127,  130-32,  152,  154; 
boom,  107,  130,  131;  commercial,  130; 
effect  of  Turkish  invasion  on,  130;  em- 
ployment in,  89,  154;  growth  rate,  131; 
housing,  130,  135,  154;  incentives  for, 
131-32;  industrial,  130,  131;  for  infra- 
structure, 130,  154;  as  percentage  of 
GDP,  109,  153,  154;  for  tourism,  130, 
131,  154;  workers,  130 

Consultative  Assembly,  25 

contraceptives,  59 

Cooperative  Central  Bank  (CCB),  122 
cooperatives,  agricultural.  See  agricultural 

cooperatives 
Cooperative  Winery  SODAP  Ltd.,  122 
Coordination  Committee,  208 
copper,  5,  53 

Cornaro,  Caterina  (queen),  16 

Council  for  the  Promotion  of  Exports,  141 

Council  of  Judicature,  194 

Council  of  Ministers,  166,  185,  194;  eth- 
nic ratio  in,  32;  of  Vassiliou,  191 

Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices 
(United  States  Department  of  State), 
242 

coup  d'etat  of  1974,  xxvi,  4,  42,  189,  213, 
218-19,  226;  international  reaction  to, 
42;  planning  of,  42;  role  of  Greece  in, 
4,  42,  49,  171,  202,  218 

courts,  communal,  167,  168 

court  system,  194,  241;  under  constitu- 
tion of  1960,  166-67;  lower,  194-95 

Crawshaw,  Nancy,  34 

credit  unions,  149 

Crete,  4,  12;  ancient  influence  of,  5 
crime:  arrests,  240-41;  incidence  of, 

240-  41;  punishments  for,  242;  types  of, 
240 

Crimean  War,  20 

criminal  justice  system,  241-42;  appeals, 

241-  42;  defendants'  rights  in,  242; 


287 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


jurisdictions  in,  241;  prisoners  in,  242; 
punishments  in,  242;  trial  procedures 
in,  241 
Crusades,  12 

CTIS.  See  Cyprus  Turkish  Islam  Society 

CTO.  See  Cyprus  Tourism  Organisation 

CTP.  See  Republican  Turkish  Party 

Cumhuriyetci  Turk  Partisi  (CTP).  See 
Republican  Turkish  Party 

currency,  144,  155 

current  account  balance,  138 

Customs  Union  Agreement,  110,  112-13, 
124,  141;  effects  of,  on  manufacturing 
sector,  127,  129;  terms  of,  141 

Cyprus  Airways,  134 

Cyprus  Army  (see  also  armed  forces;  Na- 
tional Guard),  215,  225-26;  ethnic  ra- 
tio in,  33,  34,  168,  215,  225 

Cyprus  Bar  Association,  185 

Cyprus  Broadcasting  Corporation,  135, 
188 

Cyprus  Commercial  Bank,  155 
Cyprus  Convention  (1878),  20,  21,  84 
Cyprus  Credit  Bank,  155 
Cyprus  Development  Bank,  111 
Cyprus  Employers'  and  Industrialists' 

Federation,  116 
Cyprus  Information  Service,  238 
Cyprus  Petroleum  Refinery  Ltd.,  130 
Cyprus  Regiment,  225 
Cyprus  Science  Wakf,  101 
Cyprus  Tourism  Organisation  (CTO), 

233 

Cyprus  Tribute,  20;  discontent  with, 

21-22;  sum  of,  20 
Cyprus  Turkish  Industrial  Enterprises 

Holding  Company,  143 
Cyprus  Turkish  Islam  Society  (CTIS),  98 
Cyprus  Turkish  Maritime  Company,  143 
Cyprus  Turkish  Minority  Association,  28 
Cyprus  Turkish  Peace  Force,  231 ;  num- 
ber of  troops  in,  231 
Cyprus  Turkish  Tourism  Management 

Company,  143 
Cyprus  Workers'  Confederation  (SEK), 
116 

Cyril  III  (archbishop),  22 
Czechoslovakia:  as  source  of  materiel, 
40-41 


Darius  (king),  8 


Davies,  Roger,  204 

Davos  process,  203 

day  care  centers,  80,  81,  82,  93 

debt:  foreign,  113;  domestic,  113 

deforestation,  53 

Demetriades,  Lellos,  196 

Demirel,  Siileyman,  197 

Democratic  Front,  164,  187 

Democratic  Party  (DIKO),  xxvii,  xxviii, 

44,  186,  187;  election  results  for,  187; 

leadership  of,  186;  platform  of,  186-87 
Democratic  Party  (DP),  xxix 
Democratic  Rally  (DISY),  xxvii,  xxviii, 

44,  186,  187 
Democratic  Socialist  Renewal  Movement 

(ADISOK),  187 
Democratic  Struggle  Party  (DMP),  xxix, 

196,  198,  199 
Demographic  Report,  61 
Demokratik  Miicadele  Partisi  (DMP).  See 

Democratic  Struggle  Party 
Demokratik  Parti  (DP).  See  Democratic 

Party 

Denkta§,  Rauf,  xxviii,  xxix,  xxxi,  38,  43, 
44,  195,  197-99;  background  of,  197; 
influence  of,  198;  in  intercommunal 
talks,  181,  197;  as  president  of  "Turk- 
ish Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  44, 
164,  180,  190,  197;  reaction  to,  198; 
statehood  declared  by,  179;  talks  of, 
with  Clerides,  174;  talks  of,  with 
Makarios,  175-77;  as  president  of 
Turkish  Cypriot  Communal  Chamber, 
38,  171 

Denmark:  in  United  Nations  Peace- 
keeping Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP), 
xxxii,  216,  236 
Department  of  Fisheries,  124 
Department  of  Forestry  152 
Department  of  Forests,  119 
Department  of  Geological  Survey,  119 
Department  of  Public  Works,  156 
Department  of  Water  Development,  119 
DeVezin  (British  consul  in  Syria),  83 
DEV-i§.    See   Revolutionary  Trade 

Unions'  Federation 
Devrimci  i§ci  Sendikalan  Federasyonu 
(DEV-i§).  See  Revolutionary  Trade 
Unions'  Federation 
Dhekelia  Sovereign  Base  Area,  xxii,  32, 
233 

Dhinglis,  Pavlos,  187 
Dighenis,  30 


288 


Index 


DIKO.  See  Democratic  Party 
Dimokratiko   Komma  (DIKO).  See 

Democratic  Party 
Dimokratikos  Synagermos  (DISY).  See 

Democratic  Rally 
Diocletian,  10 

Directorate  of  Medicine  and  Health,  102 

Directorate  of  Social  Welfare,  102-3 

DISY.  See  Democratic  Rally 

divorce,  66;  rate,  67;  in  "Turkish  Repub- 
lic of  Northern  Cyprus,"  93 

DMP.  See  Democratic  Struggle  Party 

DP.  See  Democratic  Party 

Draft  Framework  Exercise  (1985-86), 
180-81 

drahoma,  91-92 

drainage,  53 

droughts,  10,  53 

drug  offenses:  arrests  for,  240-41;  traffick- 
ing, 206,  240,  242 
Durduran,  Alpay,  198 
Durrell,  Lawrence,  50 


EAC .  See  Electricity  Authority  of  Cyprus 

earthquakes,  9,  10,  18,  53 

Eastern  Europe,  223;  imports  from,  140 

Eastern  Mediterranean  University 
(EMU):  employment  in,  154;  enroll- 
ment, 100,  154;  foreign  exchange  from, 
154 

EC.  See  European  Community 
Ecevit,  Biilent,  42 

economic  blockade,  xxviii,  93,  141,  142, 
158 

economic  development:  acceleration  of, 
62;  effect  of,  on  migration,  60;  invest- 
ment as  percentage  of,  115;  projects, 
111;  in  "Turkish  Republic  of  North- 
ern Cyprus,"  142-45 

economic  plans  (see  also  emergency  eco- 
nomic action  plans),  77,  111;  for 
1962-66,  110;  for  1967-71,  111,  127; 
for  1972-76,  111 

economic  planning,  143;  indicative,  110 

economy,  Greek  Cypriot  (see  also  agricul- 
ture; banking;  construction;  exports; 
gross  domestic  product;  gross  national 
product;  manufacturing  sector;  service 
sector),  xxvi,  49;  development  of, 
110-13;  effect  of  Turkish  invasion  on, 
108,  111;  growth  of,  107 


economy,  Turkish  Cypriot  (see  also 
agriculture;  banking;  construction;  ex- 
ports; gross  domestic  product;  gross  na- 
tional product;  manufacturing  sector; 
service  sector),  88;  effect  of  Turkish  in- 
vasion on,  108,  111;  growth  of,  108,; 
problems  in,  108,  143-45,  158 

Ecumenical  Councils  of  Nicaea,  10-11 

EDEK.  United  Democratic  Union  of 
Cyprus 

Eden,  Anthony,  24 

education  (see  also  schools),  xxvi,  xxviii, 
18,  72-75;  accessibility  of,  49,  59,  68; 
under  British  rule,  23,  57,  72,  73,  99; 
as  cause  of  intercommunal  conflict,  85; 
compulsory,  68,  74;  under  constitution 
of  1960,  74;  as  percentage  of  govern- 
ment budget,  73;  as  percentage  of 
GNP,  73;  preprimary,  74;  primary,  74; 
as  reason  for  urban  migration,  63;  sup- 
port of  Greek  government  for,  73;  sys- 
tem, 57,  73;  in  "Turkish  Republic  of 
Northern  Cyprus,"  99-102;  value  of, 
63-64,  67;  for  women,  68,  73,  75 

Education  Law  (1895),  72 

education,  higher,  xxvi,  68,  73-75, 
100-02;  foreign,  68,  75,  99,  100-02; 
graduates  of,  xxvi,  99,  115;  percentage 
of  students  in,  75 

education,  secondary,  68;  enrollment, 
74-75;  stages  of,  74 

EEC.  See  European  Economic  Com- 
munity 

Egypt,  14,  29;  invasion  by,  5 

Egyptian  rule,  8,  9,  224 

elections:  proposals  for,  25-26;  suspend- 
ed under  British,  22 

elections,  local:  of  1943,  24;  of  1946,  25; 
of  1976,  195;  of  1979,  186;  of  1980, 
195;  of  1986,  195 

elections,  national:  of  1960,  33;  of  1968, 
38,  171;  of  1970,  40;  of  1976,  44,  178, 

186,  187,  195,  196;  of  1981,  44,  186, 

187,  195,  196;  of  1985,  44,  186,  187, 
195,  196;  of  1988,  181,  190,  191;  of 
1990,  195,  196,  198-99;  of  1991,  xxvii, 
xxix 

elections,  presidential:  of  1959,  33;  of 
1968,  38;  of  1975,  164;  of  1978,  164; 
of  1981,  164;  of  1983,  44,  164;  of  1988, 
44,  45,  164,  181,  190,  191;  of  1990, 
164,  198-99;  of  1993,  xxviii 

electricity,  111,  130,  153-54 


289 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Electricity  Authority  of  Cyprus  (EAC), 
130 

emergency  (1955-59),  30-32,  214-15 

emergency  economic  action  plans,  108, 
111;  first  (1975-76),  112,  128;  second 
(1976-78),  112,  132;  third  (1979-81), 
112,  132;  fourth  (1982-86),  112,  132 

emigrants:  demographics  of,  60,  61;  num- 
bers of,  59-61 

emigration  (see  also  urban  migration), 
59-61;  destinations  for,  60,  61,  84 

employers'  associations,  77,  116 

employment,  115-16;  in  agriculture,  89, 
108,  117,  145;  in  civil  service,  143;  in 
construction,  89,  154;  in  Eastern 
Mediterranean  University,  154;  in  for- 
estry, 152;  in  tourism,  132 

energy,  107,  152;  firewood  for,  129;  pe- 
troleum for,  129,  153;  production, 
127;  resources,  129-30,  153-54;  solar, 
129 

Eniaion.  See  Unified  Democratic  Party 

Eniea  Dimokratiki  Enosis  Kyprou 
(EDEK).  See  United  Democratic  Union 
of  Cyprus 

enosis,  xxi,  xxiii,  xxiv,  xxv,  xxvi,  3-4,  49, 
171,  174,  187,  217;  under  British  rule, 
20,  21;  church  support  for,  26;  foreign 
activities  on  behalf  of,  23;  Greek  sup- 
port for,  29,  40;  guerrilla  activities  sup- 
porting, 221;  history  of,  3-4,  19,  55, 
214;  versus  independence,  188-89;  op- 
posed by  Turkish  Cypriots,  28;  petition 
for,  27,  28;  support  for,  by  Progressive 
Party  of  the  Working  People,  24-25; 
support  for,  by  Grivas,  27,  41;  support 
for,  by  Makarios,  27;  during  World 
War  II,  24 

EOKA.  See  National  Organization  of 
Cypriot  Fighters 

EOKA  B.  See  National  Organization  of 
Cypriot  Fighters  B 

Ercan  Airport,  156 

Eroglu,  Dervi§,  xxix,  195 

ethnarch,  57;  archbishop  as,  3,  57; 
responsibilities  of,  18 

Ethnarchy  Council,  26 

ethnic:  attitudes,  87-88;  values,  87-88; 
violence,  35-37 

ethnic  conflict:  origins  of,  4;  in  partition, 
40;  psychological  grounds  of,  87-88 

ethnic  distribution:  under  Ottoman  rule, 
83 


ethnicity  (see  also  under  individual  ethnic 

groups),  54-58,  85-88 
ethnic  ratios:  in  armed  forces,  33,  34;  in 

government,  83 
Ethniki  Organosis  Kyprion  Agoniston 

(EOKA).  See  National  Organization  of 

Cypriot  Fighters 
Ethniki  Organosis  Kyprion  Agoniston  B 

(EOKA  B).  See  National  Organization 

of  Cypriot  Fighters  B 
European  Community  (EC):  application 

for  full  membership  in,  206;  associate 

membership  in,  205;  relations  with, 

205-6 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC): 
economic  aid  from,  142;  exports  to, 
109,  129,  140,  157,  158;  imports  from, 
140,  157,  158 

European  Parliament,  205 

European  Telecommunications  Satellite 
Organisation  (Eutelsat),  135 

European  Trade  Union  Confederation, 
146 

Eutelsat.  See  European  Telecommunica- 
tions Satellite  Organisation 

Evagoras,  8-9 

Evdokas,  Takis,  38 

Evkaf.  See  Evkaf  Idaresi 

Evkaf  Idaresi  (Turkish  Religious  Trust) 
(Evkaf),  97;  bank  of,  155;  under  Brit- 
ish rule,  97;  forests  owned  by,  152;  land 
owned  by,  148-49 

exchange-of-population  agreement,  172 

exports,  128,  158;  agricultural,  140,  141, 
149,  150;  to  Arab  countries,  129,  140, 
150-52;  to  Britain,  140,  158;  of  canned 
goods,  127;  to  European  Economic 
Community,  109,  129,  140,  157,  158; 
to  Greece,  140;  increase  in,  128, 
138-40;  of  livestock,  150-52;  by 
manufacturing  sector,  128,  153;  to 
Middle  East,  109,  129,  157,  158;  of 
minerals,  62,  110,  125,  213;  threats  to, 
129 


Famagusta  (Gazimagusa),  17,  196,  214; 
agriculture  near,  149;  ceded  to  Genoa, 
14;  conquered  by  Ottomans,  17;  police 
in,  239-40;  port,  112,  134,  156;  Roman 
Catholic  church  in,  13;  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots in,  88,  89 


290 


Index 


Famagusta  Bay,  53 

Famagusta  district,  195;  population  of,  62 

family:  extended,  91,  92;  households,  65; 
importance  of,  49,  65,  90;  nuclear,  91, 
92;  planning,  59;  roles  in,  92-93;  size, 
59;  structure,  65;  types  of,  91 

famines,  18 

Feissel,  Gustave,  181 

feminist  movement,  50,  70 

feudal  system,  14,  55;  abolished,  17,  18; 
serfs  under,  14 

financial  sector,  109,  113,  132,  135 

Finland:  in  United  Nations  Peace-keeping 
Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  216, 
236 

fishing,  116,  122,  124,  147,  149,  152;  as 

percentage  of  GDP,  152 
Foot,  Hugh,  31 

foreign  aid,  115;  from  Britain,  21-22; 
from  European  Economic  Communi- 
ty, 142;  from  Turkey,  153;  to  "Turk- 
ish Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus," 
142,  144;  from  World  Bank,  142 

foreign  exchange,  155;  from  Eastern 
Mediterranean  University,  154;  from 
offshore  enterprises,  137;  for  petroleum 
products,  130;  reserves,  138;  from 
tourism,  108,  109,  132,  138,  157 

foreign  policy,  199-209;  diplomatic  efforts 
in,  199;  internationalization  of, 
200-201 

forestry,  116,  122,  125,  147,  149,  152; 
employment  in,  152;  as  percentage  of 
GDP,  152 

forests:  destruction  of,  53;  owned  by  Ev- 
kaf  Idaresi,  152;  products,  213;  refor- 
estation program,  23,  148,  152;  types 
of  trees  in,  152 

France:  loans  from,  231;  materiel  from, 
229,  230,  231;  military  training  in,  227 

GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 

Gecitkale  Airport,  156 

Gecitkoy,  148 

gender  relations,  49-50 

Genoa,  224;  Famagusta  ceded  to,  14; 

trade  with,  14 
geography,    50-54;    climate,  53-54; 

drainage,  53;  terrain,  50-53 
Georkajis,  Polykarpos,  218 
Germany:  imports  from,  140;  Turkish 

support  of,  in  World  War  II,  21 


Gerst,  Marvin,  87 

Gobbi,  Hugo,  178 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail,  204 

government:  and  church,  connection  be- 
tween, 11;  debate  over,  172;  district- 
level,  185,  195;  exports  encouraged  by, 
128;  manufacturing  encouraged  by, 
129;  Turkish  Cypriot  boycott  of,  163, 
168,  185,  195;  village-level,  185-86, 
195 

government  budget:  development, 
114-15;  education  as  percentage  of,  73; 
expenditures,  114;  military  spending  as 
percentage  of,  231;  ordinary,  114; 
revenue,  114;  special  relief  fund,  114, 
115 

Government  House:  burned,  22,  214 

government  sector,  113-15;  balanced 
budget  policy  of,  113;  debt  of,  113;  as 
percentage  of  GDP,  113,  144;  reduc- 
tion of,  in  "Turkish  Republic  of  North- 
ern Cyprus,"  144 

Great  Depression,  22 

Great  Schism,  70 

Greco-Turkish  War  (1920-22),  27 

Greece:  emigration  to,  61;  exports  to, 
140;  foreign  policy  of,  203;  interests  of, 
in  Cyprus,  213;  intervention  by,  xxiii, 
169;  islands  ceded  to,  xxi,  4,  224;  loans 
from,  231;  materiel  from,  229;  as  mem- 
ber of  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organi- 
zation (NATO),  28;  police  training  in, 
238;  relations  with,  199,  200,  202-3; 
role  of,  in  1974  coup,  xxiii,  4;  support 
by,  for  enosis,  29;  support  by,  for  guer- 
rilla organizations,  xxiii,  34,  214,  216; 
university  students  in,  75 

Greek  Army,  225,  226 

Greek  Cypriot  nationalism,  24;  under 
British  rule,  xxiv,  xxv,  20;  characteris- 
tics of,  88;  origins  of,  19;  Turkish 
Cypriot  reaction  to,  82 

Greek  Cypriots:  ancestors  of,  7,  54; 
church  influence  on,  26;  conflict  among, 
217-19;  conscription  of,  217;  culture 
of,  16-17;  economic  blockade  of  "Turk- 
ish Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" 
by,  93,  141,  142,  158;  economy  of,  107; 
and  enosis,  21,  26;  ethnic  identity 
of,  85;  in  Karpas  Peninsula,  82,  89, 
221;  in  Legislative  Council,  21;  para- 
military force  of,  168,  213;  in  polit- 
ical office,  32;  religion  of,  96;  in 


291 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Turkish  invasion,  219;  in  "Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  96; 
unification  desired  by,  165,  174,  200, 
201 

Greek  government:  donations  from,  73; 
opinion  of  Makarios,  4,  40-42;  peti- 
tioned for  enosis,  27;  support  of,  for 
education,  73 
Greek  junta:  attempts  by,  to  overthrow 
Makarios,  41,  171,  202,  217;  collapse 
of,  43;  coup  d'etat  in,  41-42;  funding 
by,  of  enosis  activities,  40,  218;  United 
States  and,  204 
Greek  Military  Academy,  27,  227 
Greek  nationalist  movement,  55,  71 
Greek  Orthodox  Church  (see  also  Chris- 
tianity; Church  of  Cyprus):  competi- 
tion of,  with  Roman  Catholic  church, 
13-14;  legacy  of,  54-55;  secular  role  of, 
64 

Greek  War  of  Independence,  18,  214 

Green  Line,  35,  220 

Grivas,  George,  30,  33;  death  of,  41,  218; 
education  of,  27;  guerrilla  activities  of, 
30,  40,  41,  216,  218;  and  Makarios, 
relationship  between,  28;  National 
Guard  commanded  by,  36,  216,  217; 
reconnaissance  trip  by,  28-29;  support 
by,  for  enosis,  27;  as  threat  to  Maka- 
rios, 41 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP):  agricul- 
ture as  percentage  of,  62,  109,  116,  117, 
146,  147,  149;  construction  as  percent- 
age of,  109,  153,  154;  fishing  as  per- 
centage of,  152;  forestry  as  percentage 
of,  152;  government  sector  as  percent- 
age of,  113,  144;  increase  in,  108,  112; 
industry  as  percentage  of,  142; 
manufacturing  as  percentage  of,  109, 
111,  128,  153;  mining  as  percentage  of, 
125,  154;  service  sector  as  percentage 
of,  109,  111,  142;  tourism  as  percent- 
age of,  109;  trade  as  percentage  of,  132; 
Turkish  Cypriots'  contribution  to,  142; 
of  "Turkish  Republic  of  Northern 
Cyprus,"  142 

gross  national  product  (GNP):  education 
as  percentage  of,  73;  military  spending 
as  percentage  of,  231;  in  1973,  109;  in 
1988,  108-9;  social  insurance  as  per- 
centage of,  79 

guest  workers,  84,  115,  142,  145 

Gulf  Crisis  (1990-91),  xxxii,  184 


Haass,  Richard,  204 
Harding,  John,  31 

health  care,  76-77,  102;  facilities,  23,  76, 
102;  improvements  in,  76-77;  private, 
76;  professionals,  70,  102;  socialized, 
102;  subsidies  for,  76 
health,  public:  history,  75-76;  improve- 
ments in,  76 
Hellenic  Mining  Company,  125 
High  Administrative  Court,  194 
High  Court  of  Justice,  166,  167,  170,  185 
Higher  Technical  Institute,  75,  100,  111 
Holy  League,  17 
Homer,  7 

Hopkinson,  Henry  L.,  28 

hospitals:  under  British  rule,  23;  number 

of,  76,  102;  types  of,  76,  102 
hostels  for  the  aged,  82 
Hotel  and  Catering  Institute,  75,  111 
Hotel  and  Catering  Training  Center,  157 
hotels,  109,  132,  157 
house:  importance  of  ownership  of,  66,  67 
House  of  Representatives,  xxvii-xxviii, 

32-33,  166,  169,  185;  elections  for,  33, 

40,  44,  186-87;  ethnic  ratio  in,  33,  166; 

veto  power  in,  169;  voting  in,  166 
housing:  construction,  130,  135,  154; 

problems,  81;  programs,  81-82;  for 

refugees,  81,  112,  130-31 
Housing  Finance  Corporation,  131 
Hugh  III  (king),  14 


Iacovou,  George,  191 

ICFTU.  See  International  Confederation 

of  Free  Trade  Unions 
Iliad  (Homer),  7 

immigration,  60;  from  Turkey,  83,  89 
Immovable  Property  (Tenure,  Registra- 
tion, and  Valuation)  Law  (1946),  120, 
148 

imports,  158;  from  Arab  countries,  140; 
from  Britain,  140,  158;  dependence  on, 
140;  from  Eastern  Europe,  140;  from 
European  Economic  Community,  140, 
157,  158;  from  Germany,  140;  from 
Italy,  140;  from  Japan,  140,  157,  158; 
of  livestock,  124;  of  oil,  129-30,  154; 
from  United  States,  140 

Incentive  Scheme  for  the  Reactivation  of 
Refugees,  81 

income,  90;  per  capita,  107,  108,  142 


292 


Index 


independence:  from  Britain,  xxi,  3,  4, 
215;  versus  enosis,  xxvi,  188-89; 
negotiations  for,  32;  from  the  Ottoman 
Empire,  3;  from  Persian  Empire,  9; 
struggle  for,  30-32,  214-15 

Independents,  40 

industrial:  construction,  130,  131;  de- 
velopment, 127;  parks,  127 

industry:  employment  in,  89;  as  percent- 
age of  GDP,  142 

inflation,  108,  144,  155,  208 

infrastructure,  110;  construction  for,  130, 
154;  improvements  in,  110,  114-15 

inheritance,  120 

Inonii,  Ismet,  36 

insurance,  109,  135,  138 

intelligence  gathering:  by  police,  238 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization,  135 

intercommunal:  conflict,  xxv,  4,  35-37, 
85,  168,  170,  215-17;  contact,  85 

internal  migration,  61-62;  rate  of,  61 

internal  security,  221-24 

International  Confederation  of  Free 
Trade  Unions  (ICFTU),  146 

International  Criminal  Police  Organiza- 
tion (INTERPOL),  240 

international  incidents,  224 

International  Institute  for  Strategic 
Studies,  226 

International  Labour  Organisation,  78 

International  Monetary  Fund:  member- 
ship in,  34 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  135 

INTERPOL.  See  International  Criminal 
Police  Organization 

invasion,  Turkish.  See  Turkish  invasion 

Ioannides,  Dimitrios,  42 

Ioannides,  George,  177 

Ionian  Islands:  ceded  to  Greece,  4 

Ireland:  in  United  Nations  Peace-keep- 
ing Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  216, 
236 

Iron  Age,  7 

irrigation,  53,  62,  116,  149;  crops  requir- 
ing, 123;  projects,  111,  115,  117,  148 

Islam  (see  also  Muslims),  93;  five  pillars 
of,  96-97;  Hanafi,  97;  sharia,  98,  99, 
102;  Shia,  97;  Sunni,  97,  99;  theology 
of,  96 

Islamism,  98,  101 

Israel,  207,  223 


Italy:  imports  from,  140;  loans  from,  231 


James  II  (king)  ("the  Bastard"),  16 

Janus  I  (king),  14 

Japan:  imports  from,  140,  157,  158 

Jerusalem,  13 

John  of  Austria  (don),  17 

John  II  (king),  16 

Johnson,  Lyndon  B.,  36 

Jordan,  209 

judiciary,  166-67,  170,  185,  193-95 


Kalecik  port,  156 
Kantara,  152 

Karamanlis,  Constantinos,  43,  202 
Karpas  Peninsula,  50;  attacked  by  Otto- 
man Turks,  17;  Greek  Cypriots  in,  82, 
89,  221;  police  in,  239-40;  rainfall  in, 
53 

Kartal,  152 

Khrysokhou  Irrigation  Project,  115 
Kibns  Turk  Emniyet  Kuvvetleri.  See 

Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force 
Kibns  Vakiflar  Bankasi,  155 
Kinyras  (king),  7 

Kition,  7;  as  city-kingdom,  8;  metro- 
politanate  of,  71 

Knights  Templars,  13 

Koordinasyon  Komitesi.  See  Coordination 
Committee 

Kormakiti  (Korucam),  82 

Kotak,  ismet,  196,  199 

Kourion:  as  city-kingdom,  8 

Kucuk,  Fazil,  4,  33,  34,  35,  168,  169, 
197;  as  president  of  Turkish  Cypriot 
Communal  Chamber,  38,  171 

Kurds,  221 

Kykko  Monastery,  26 

Kyprianos  (archbishop),  18 

Kyprianou,  Spyros,  44,  181;  in  intercom- 
munal talks,  181 ,  203;  as  party  leader, 
186;  as  president,  164,  176 

Kyprianou-Denktas.  Communique 
(1979),  177-80 

Kyrenia  (Girne),  17,  196;  as  city- 
kingdom,  8;  conquered  by  Ottomans, 
17;  metropolitanate  of,  71;  police  in, 
239-40;  port  of,  156;  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots in,  89 


293 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Kyrenia  district,  195 
Kyrenia  Range,  50-52,  148,  152 
Kythrea  (Degirmenlik):  military  forces  in, 
231 


labor  relations,  115-16,  145-46 
labor  unions,  77;  civil  servants',  116; 
membership,  115,  145;  number  of, 
146;  in  "Turkish  Republic  of  North- 
ern Cyprus,"  145-46 
land  consolidation,  120-22 
Land  Consolidation  Law  (1969),  120 
Land  Development  Corporation,  131 
land  ownership:  by  Church  of  Cyprus, 
119;  communal,  119,  120,  148;  by  Ev- 
kaf  Idaresi,  148-49;  fragmentation  of, 
120;  private,  119,  120,  148;  state,  119, 
120,  148 

land  tenure,    116,    119-22,  148-49; 

problems  in,  120 
land  use,  119-22,  148-49;  under  British 

rule,  148;  under  Ottoman  rule,  148 
language:  Turkish  Cypriot,  88 
Lapithos  (Lapta);  agriculture  in,  149;  as 

city-kingdom,  8;  as  Roman  district,  9 
Larnaca,  7,  214;  industrial  parks  in,  127; 

petroleum  refinery,  127,  130;  port  of, 

134-35;  Turkish  Cypriots  in,  88 
Larnaca  Airport,  115,  134 
Larnaca  Bay,  50 
Latins,  57-58 

Lebanon,  207;  refugees  from,  224 

Ledsky,  Nelson,  184,  204 

Lefka  (Lefke),  98;  agriculture  in,  149; 
mining  in,  154 

Lefke  University,  98,  100,  101;  founded, 
101;  reaction  to,  102 

Lefkoniko  (Gecitkale),  232 

Legislative  Assembly,  194;  elections  for, 
xxix,  195,  196,  197,  198-99 

Legislative  Council,  25-26;  Greek  Cypri- 
ots in,  21;  proposals  for,  25-26;  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  in,  21 

legislature.  See  House  of  Representatives; 
Legislative  Assembly 

Lemesos  (see  also  Limassol),  12 

Leontios  (bishop),  22;  death  of,  25;  elect- 
ed archbishop,  23 

Libya,  223;  assistance  from,  to  Turkish 
Cypriots,  98,  224 

Limassol  (see  also  Lemesos),  214;  de- 


stroyed by  Ottoman  Turks,  17;  indus- 
trial parks  in,  127;  metropolitanate  of, 
71;  port  of,  134;  Roman  Catholic 
church  in,  13;  Turkish  Cypriots  in,  89 

Limassol  district:  agriculture  in,  123; 
population  of,  62 

linobambakoi,  55 

literacy  rate,  72,  99,  100 

livestock,  113,  117,  124,  150-51;  export 
of,  150-52;  import  of,  124;  population, 
150;  processing,  152;  subsidies  for,  124; 
value  added,  122 

Loizos,  Peter,  65 

London  Conference,  32 

Lusignan,  Amaury  de,  13 

Lusignan,  Guy  de,  13 

Lusignan  rule,  13-16,  55,  57,  224; 
religion  under,  70-71 

Lyssarides,  Vassos,  40,  187 


Macmillan,  Harold,  32 

Macmillan  Plan,  32 

Makarios  II  (archbishop).  25 

Makarios  III  (archbishop)  (Michael 
Christodoulou  Mouskos),  xxii-xxiv,  3, 
30,  36,  96,  171,  186,  203;  address  of, 
to  United  Nations,  27;  arms  purchases 
for,  40-41;  assassination  attempt  on, 
38;  attempts  to  overthrow,  40,  202, 
213,  217,  218,  222,  234;  as  bishop, 
26-27;  death  of,  176;  education  of,  26; 
Greek  government  opinion  of,  4;  and 
Grivas,  relationship  between,  28;  Gri- 
vas  as  threat  to,  41;  influence  of,  188; 
overthrown,  218-19;  as  president,  4, 
33,  41,  71,  163,  168,  169,  216,  226; 
support  by,  for  enosis,  27;  support  for, 
41;  talks  of,  with  Denkta§,  175-77 

Makarios-Denkta§  Accords  (1977), 
175-77 

malaria,  76;  eradication  of,  76 
Mamluks,  14;  kidnap  of  King  Janus  I  by, 
14-15 

manufacturing  sector,  110,  125-32, 
152-54;  diversification  of,  107;  employ- 
ment in,  153;  enterprises,  127;  exports 
by,  128,  153;  government  policies 
toward,  127,  129;  number  of  employees 
in,  127;  obstacles  to,  127;  as  percentage 
of  GDP,  109,  111,  128,  153;  plants, 
127,  128;  principal  products  of,  128-29; 


294 


Index 


production,  127;  productivity  in,  111; 
restructuring  of,   141;  of  "Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  144 
Marion,  8 

Mark  (apostle),  3,  11;  missionary  work 
of,  10 

Markopoulos,  Panayotis,  229 
Maronites,  57,  82,  221;  ancestors  of,  57; 

under  1960  constitution,  165;  religion 

of,  96 

marriage:  age,  67;  arranged,  66,  91;  at- 
titudes toward,  66;  bride's  obligations 
in,  66,  91;  ceremonies,  92,  98;  dowry 
for,  65-66,  91-92;  engagement,  92;  im- 
portance of,  49,  67,  90;  interethnic,  83; 
rate,  67;  social  insurance  benefits  for, 
78 

materiel:  from  Brazil,  229,  231;  from 
Czechoslovakia,  40-41;  from  France, 
229,  230,  231;  from  Greece,  229;  of 
Greek  Cypriot  police,  238;  for 
Makarios,  40-41;  for  National  Guard, 
231;  from  Soviet  Union,  229,  230;  from 
Switzerland,  229;  of  Turkish  Army, 
232;  from  United  States,  232;  from  Yu- 
goslavia, 229 

media:  Greek  Cypriot,  188;  Turkish 
Cypriot,  197 

medieval  period,  10-17;  outside  rulers 
during,  55 

Menderes,  Adnan,  31 

Mesaoria  plain,  5,  50;  agriculture  in,  123; 
rainfall  in,  53;  temperatures  in,  54 

Meteorological  Service,  119 

middle  class:  and  marriage,  66-67 

Middle  East,  223;  exports  to,  109,  129, 
157,  158 

Middle  East  Marketing  Research  Bureau, 
190 

military:  careers,  227;  training,  227 
Military  Balance,  1989-90,  The  (Interna- 
tional Institute  for  Strategic  Studies), 
226 

military  forces,  ethnic,  213 
military  forces,  foreign:  Greek,  33;  Turk- 
ish, 33 

military  spending,  230-31;  amount,  231; 

budgets  for,  230;  as  percentage  of 

GNP,  231;  sources  of,  230 
millets,  3,  18,  55,  83 
millet  system,  3,  55,  96;  under  British  rule, 

55;  under  Ottoman  rule,  64,  83 
Milner,  Clive,  236 


minerals:  exports  of,  62,  110,  125,  213 

mining,  109,  116,  125,  152,  154;  of  cop- 
per, 125;  employment  in,  125;  as  per- 
centage of  GDP,  125,  154 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Natural 
Resources,  75,  119,  152 

Ministry  of  Economy  and  Finance,  143; 
Coordination,  Executive,  and  Techni- 
cal Assistance  Section,  143;  State  Plan- 
ning Section,  143 

Ministry  of  Education,  73,  75;  estab- 
lished, 74 

Ministry  of  Education,  Sports,  and 
Youth,  100 

Ministry  of  Finance:  Income  Tax  Depart- 
ment, 79;  Planning  Bureau,  110 

Ministry  of  Health,  75,  76 

Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Welfare, 
102 

Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Insurance, 
75;  Department  of  Social  Welfare  Ser- 
vices, 79,  80;  Industrial  Relations  Sec- 
tion, 116 

Ministry  of  Tourism  and  Culture,  157 
Mitsotakis,  Constantinos,  203 
Mobile  Reserve,  86,  215 
moneylenders,  64 

Morphou  (Guzelyurt):  agriculture  in, 
149;  metropolitanate  of,  71;  military 
forces  in,  231;  police  in,  239-40;  Turk- 
ish Cypriots  in,  89 

Morphou  plain,  53 

mountain  systems,  50,  152 

Mount  Olympus,  50 

Mouskos,  Michael  Christodoulou.  See 
Makarios  III 

Muawiyah,  12 

Miicahit  forces,  232 

mufti,  97-98 

Muhammad  (prophet),  96 

municipalities,  168,  169 

Muslims  (see  also  Turkish  Cypriots),  21; 

under  Ottoman  rule,  55 
Mustafa  Pasha,  Lala,  17 
Mycenaeans:  as  settlers,  5;  trade  with, 

5-7 


Nadir,  Asil,  145,  197 
NAM.  See  Nonaligned  Movement 
National  Council,  187;  resurrected,  190 
National  Guard,  xxiii,  213,  225,  226; 


295 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


buildup  of,  226;  capabilities  of,  226; 
conscription  for,  217,  226;  equipment 
of,  229-30;  established,  36,  170,  216, 
226;  fighting  by,  217;  Greek  officers  in, 
42,  202,  216,  226;  insignia,  228; 
materiel  for,  231;  modernization  of, 
214;  morale,  228;  Naval  Command, 
230;  noncommissioned  officers  in, 
226-27;  officers  in,  226-27;  organiza- 
tion of,  229;  personnel,  226-28;  ranks, 
228;  reserves,  227-28;  retention,  228; 
role  of,  in  coup  d'etat,  xxiii,  37,  42, 
171;  role  of,  in  police  force,  238;  ser- 
vice, 227;  size  of,  226,  228;  as  threat 
to  Makarios,  218,  226;  uniforms,  228; 
wages,  228;  weaknesses  in,  229 

National  Organization  of  Cypriot  Fight- 
ers (EOKA),  xxii,  30;  disbanded,  215; 
guerrilla  activities  of,  30,  31-32,  214; 
resurgence  of,  34 

National  Organization  of  Cypriot  Fight- 
ers B  (EOKA  B),  30,  218,  222;  at- 
tempts by,  to  overthrow  Makarios,  41, 
42,  171;  banned,  42;  purged,  222 

National  Unity  Party  (UBP),  43,  195,  198 

NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Or- 
ganization 

New  Dawn  Party  (YDP),  196-97,  198, 
199 

newspapers,  40,  188,  197 

Nicosia  (Lefko§a),  17,  196,  214;  con- 
quered by  Ottomans,  17;  industrial 
parks  in,  127;  police  in,  239-40;  Ro- 
man Catholic  Church  in,  13;  situation 
of,  53;  Turkish  Cypriots  in,  88,  89 

Nicosia  Central  Prison,  242 

Nicosia  district,  195;  population  of,  61 

Nicosia  International  Airport,  111,  134, 
234 

Nicosia-Limassol  Highway,  115 
Nonaligned  Movement  (NAM),  199, 
200,  225 

North  America:  emigration  to,  60,  61 
North  Atlantic   Treaty  Organization 

(NATO),  xxxii,  28,  171-72,  201,  203, 

213,  224 


occupations:  mobility  among,  65;  of  Tur- 
kish Cypriots,  90;  urban,  68 
Odyssey  (Homer),  7 

Office  of  the  Registrar  of  Cooperative  So- 
cieties, 149 


offshore  enterprises,  109,  113,  132,  135, 
137;  activities  of,  137-38;  foreign  ex- 
change earning  of,  137,  138 

oil  {see  also  petroleum):  imports,  129-30, 
154;  price  increases,  107,  112 

Onan,  Umit  Suleyman;  as  negotiator, 
175,  177 

Onesilos  (king),  8 

Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference 

(OIC),  209 
Ottoman  Empire,  20 
Ottoman  Porte,  19 

Ottoman  rule,  3,  17-19,  55,  82,  224; 
bureaucracy  under,  64;  independence 
from,  3;  land  use  under,  148;  religion 
under,  58,  71;  uprisings  against,  18 

Ottoman  Turks:  attacks  by,  17;  Chris- 
tians under,  17-18,  55;  conquest  by,  3 

Ozal,  Turgut,  190 

Ozgiir,  Ozker,  196 


Pakistan,  209 

Palaeologos,  Helena  (queen),  16 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO), 

223,  224 
Palestinians,  207,  224 
Panagrarian  Union  of  Cyprus  (PEK),  24 
Panagrotiki  Enosis  Kyprou  (PEK).  See 

Panagrarian  Union  of  Cyprus 
Pan-Cyprian  Federation  of  Labor  (PEO), 

25,  115-16 
Pancyprian  Gymnasium,  26,  27 
Pankypria  Ergatiki  Omospondia  (PEO). 

See  Pan-Cyprian  Federation  of  Labor 
Papadopoulos,  Tassos,  175,  176 
Papandreou,  Andreas,  179,  203 
Paphos,  10;  as  city-kingdom,  8;  metro- 
politanate  of,  71;  port  of,  135;  Roman 
Catholic  Church  in,  13;  as  Roman  dis- 
trict, 9;  temples  in,  7;  Turkish  Cypri- 
ots in,  89 

Paphos  district:  agriculture  in,  123;  popu- 
lation of,  62 

Paphos  International  Airport,  134 

partition,  xxvi,  3,  5,  40,  45,  49,  57,  213, 
220-21;  effects  of,  50,  88,  107,  117, 
134,  142;  political  systems  under,  44; 
problems  caused  by,  43,  82;  rural- 
urban  ratio  affected  by,  89;  threatened, 
38,  166 

Paschalides,  Paschalis,  xxviii 


296 


Index 


Patriotic  Front,  186 

Paul  (apostle),  3;  missionary  work  of,  10 

peasant  associations,  24 

Pedagogical  Academy,  75 

Pedhieos  River,  53 

PEK.  See  Panagrarian  Union  of  Cyprus 
Pentadaktylos   Mountain  (Be§parmak 

Mountain),  152 
PEO.  See  Pan-Cyprian  Federation  of 

Labor 

Perez  de  Cuellar,  Javier,  177,  180,  181, 
184 

Persian  rule,  8,  54,  224;  city-kingdoms 
under,  8;  independence  from,  9;  revolt 
against,  8 
petroleum  refineries,  127,  154 
Phoenicians,  224;  as  settlers,  7;  trade 
with,  7 

PLO.  See  Palestine  Liberation  Organi- 
zation 

police,  Greek  Cypriot,  237-38;  materiel 
of,  238;  organization  of,  237-38; 
recruitment  of,  238;  training  of,  238; 
units  of,  238 

Police  Organization,  Turkish  Cypriot, 
238-40;  organization  of,  238-39; 
provincial,  239-40;  units  of,  239 

political  culture,  190-92 

political  demonstrations:  against  British 
bases,  224;  against  British  policies,  22, 
214;  against  Cyprus  Tribute,  21-22; 
against  Ottoman  rule,  18;  against  par- 
tition, 222-23;  pro-enosis,  29,  30-31; 
supporting  Makarios,  41;  by  the  unem- 
ployed, 115 

political  dynamics,  188-90 

political  institutions,  Greek  Cypriot, 
184-86;  Turkish  Cypriot,  193-95 

political  parties  (see  also  under  individual  par- 
ties), xxvii-xxix,  24-25,  33,  40,  44-45, 
186-88,  190,  195-97,  198-99,  224 

Polly  Peck  International,  145 

population,  58-62,  82-85;  age-sex  distri- 
bution, 60,  84-85,  86;  birth  rates, 
58-59;  in  eighteenth  century,  83;  ex- 
tramarital births,  67;  fertility  rates,  58; 
increase  rates,  84-85;  infant  mortality, 
76;  life  expectancy,  76;  of  rural  areas, 
6 1 ;  in  sixteenth  century,  83 ;  of  urban 
areas,  61 

ports  (see  also  under  individual  ports),  111, 

112,  125,  134-35,  156 
pottery,  5,  7 


poultry,  124,  150-52 
president,  32,  165-66,  169,  171,  184-85, 
194 

primary  sector.  See  agriculture 

private  sector:  government  support  for, 
110,  112 

Progressive  Coalition,  40 

Progressive  Party  of  the  Working  People 
(AKEL),  xxvii,  44,  186,  187,  206,  224; 
activities  of,  24-25,  234;  banned,  187; 
election  results  for,  187;  and  enosis, 
24-25,  26;  founded,  24,  181;  in  parlia- 
ment, 33,  40 

Progressive  People's  Party,  196 

Proximity  Talks  (1984),  180 

Psychiatric  School  of  Nursing,  75 

Ptolemaic  period,  9 

Ptolemy  (king),  9 

Public  Service  Commission,  185,  191 
Public  Service  Law  (1967),  185 


quarrying,  125 
Quran,  96 


Radcliffe  (lord),  31 
radio,  135,  157,  188,  197 
rainfall,  53,  147,  148,  149;  distribution 
of,  53 

real  estate,  109,  135;  investments,  65; 
owned  by  Evkaf  Idaresi,  148;  value  of, 
107 

Red  Cross,  International  Committee  of, 
179 

refugees,  Greek  Cypriot  (see  also  resettle- 
ment), 80-82,  111;  emergency  relief 
services,  80-81,  222;  government  sup- 
port for,  49,  80-82,  108;  housing  for, 
81,  112,  130-31,  154;  number  of,  220; 
political  strength  of,  1 76;  return  of,  175 

refugees,  Turkish  Cypriot  (see  also  reset- 
tlement), 111;  resetdement  of,  89,  135, 
175 

religion  (see  also  under  individual  sects), 
70-72,  93-99;  under  Byzantine  rule, 
10-11,  54-55;  under  foreign  rule, 
70-71;  observance  of,  72;  symbiosis  in, 
55;  syncretism  in,  55 

Republican  Turkish  Party  (CTP),  xxix, 
45,  196,  198,  199 


297 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


resettlement  {see  also  refugees,  Greek 
Cypriot;  refugees,  Turkish  Cypriot),  89 

restaurants,  109,  132 

Revolutionary  Trade  Unions'  Federation 
(DEV-iS),  146 

Richard  I  (Lion-heart),  12 

rivers,  53,  119 

roads  {see  also  transportation),  111;  under 
British  rule,  23;  network,  134,  156; 
service  network,  122 

Roman  Catholic  Church  {see  also  Chris- 
tianity), 96;  competition  of,  with  Greek 
Orthodox  church,  13-14 

Roman  Catholicism:  under  1960  consti- 
tution, 165;  suppressed  by  Ottomans, 
58 

Roman  Empire:  division  of,  10 
Roman  rule,  54,  224;  improvements  in 
infrastructure  under,  9-10;  religion  un- 
der, 3 

Royal  Air  Force  (RAF),  233,  234 
rural  areas:  birth  rates  in,  59;  families  in, 
91;  fertility  rates  in,  59;  health-care  fa- 
cilities in,  76;  political  affiliations  in,  40; 
population  in,  61;  Turkish  Cypriots  in, 
88,  89 

rural-urban  dichotomy,  59 
Russia,  20 


St.  Hilarion  Castle,  35 
Saladin,  13 

Salamis  {see  also  Constantia),  12,  71;  as 
city-kingdom,  8;  destruction  of,  9;  dis- 
covery of  ruins  of,  10;  as  Roman  dis- 
trict, 9 

Sampson,  Nicos,  xxiii,  42,  43,  219,  222; 

as  provisional  president,  171 
Sargon  II,  8 

Saudi  Arabia:  assistance  from,  to  Turkish 
Cypriots,  98,  101 

School  of  Midwifery,  75 

School  of  Nursing,  75 

schools,  81;  academic,  73;  attendance, 
72-73,  100;  under  British  rule,  23,  72; 
courses  of  study,  73;  ethnic  segregation 
in,  85-86;  preprimary,  73,  100;  pri- 
mary, 72,  73,  74,  100;  public,  73,  100; 
religious  instruction  in,  93;  secondary, 
73;  special,  73;  vocational,  73,  74 

secondary  sector.  See  manufacturing 

secularization,  85,  87;  under  Atatiirk,  87; 


under  British  rule,  98;  in  "Turkish 
Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus,"  93 

SEK.  See  Cyprus  Workers'  Confederation 

Selim  II  (sultan),  83 

Serakhis  River,  53 

serfs:  under  Byzantine  rule,  11;  under 
feudal  system,  14;  freed,  17 

service  sector,  89,  109,  132-34,  154-58; 
as  percentage  of  GDP,  109,  111,  142; 
productivity  in,  111 

settlement  process,  43,  45,  171,  172-84, 
190,  198,  204,  221,  225;  international 
support  for,  200;  Soviet  policy  toward, 
204-5 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1968- 
76),  171,  172-75;  agreements  in,  174; 
between  Clerides  and  Denkta§,  174-75; 
differences  in,  174-75;  issues  in,  38-40; 
United  Nations  involvement  in,  177; 
led  by  Waldheim,  221 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1977), 
45,  175-177;  ABC  plan  in,  176-77;  de- 
mands in,  175;  guidelines  for,  175; 
proposals  in,  176 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1979), 
45,  177-180;  proposals  in,  178;  Unit- 
ed Nations  agenda  for,  178 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1984), 
180 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1985- 
86),  45,  180-81 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1988- 
90),  181-84,  201;  collapse  of,  182;  flex- 
ibility in,  182;  ideas  paper  in,  181 

settlement  talks,  intercommunal  (1992), 
xxix-xxx 

sexual  morality,  66-67,  70 

Sheyh  Nazim  Adil  Kibnsh,  98-99 

shipping,  135 

Singapore:  loans  from,  231 

Sisco,  Joseph  J.,  42 

Social  Assistance  Services  Office,  102 

social  insurance,  77-79;  contributions  to, 

78-79;  funds,  79;  as  percentage  of 

GNP,  79 
Social  Insurance  Fund,  103 
Social  Insurance  Law  (1980),  78 
Social  Insurance  Scheme,  68,  77-78; 

benefits,  78;  coverage,  79 
Socialist   Party   EDEK.    See  United 

Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus 
Socialistiko  Komma  EDEK.  See  United 

Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus 


298 


Index 


social  welfare,  79-80,  102-3;  under  Brit- 
ish rule,  103;  child  and  family,  79-80; 
economic  assistance  under,  80;  objec- 
tives of,  82;  services,  79;  social  defense 
services,  79 

Society  of  Worldwide  Interbank  Finan- 
cial Telecommunications  (SWIFT), 
137 

Soli:  as  city-kingdom,  8 
Southern  Conveyor  Project,  114,  119 
Sovereign  Base  Areas,  xxii,  32,  225,  233; 
Cypriot  attitude  toward,  234;  intelli- 
gence gathering  in,  233;  personnel 
strength  in,  233-34;  as  training  sites, 
233 

Soviet  Union,  xxxii,  24;  materiel  from, 
229,  230;  policy  of,  toward  settlement, 
204-5;  relations  with,  203-5 
Special  Cyprus  Coordinator,  204 
Special  Service  for  the  Care  and  Rehabili- 
tation of  Displaced  persons,  80-82; 
emergency  relief,  80-81 
SPO.  See  State  Planning  Organisation 
standard  of  living,  xxvi,  65;  of  Greek 
Cypriots,  57,  64;  improvements  in,  59, 
65,  107;  of  Turkish  Cypriots,  44,  145 
State  Laboratories  Directorate,  102 
State  Planning  Organisation  (SPO),  143 
state-sponsored  entities,  143-44 
storage,  134 
Storrs,  Ronald,  20 

strategic  importance,  109,  224-25,  199; 
to  Crusaders,  13,  14;  economic,  132; 
in  World  War  II,  24 
strikes:  general,  30;  outlawed,  31 
subsidies:  for  agriculture,  113,  117,  123; 
for  health  care,  76;  for  livestock  produc- 
tion, 124;  from  Turkey,  208 
Suez  Canal  zone,  29 
suffrage:  male,  25-26;  universal,  33; 

women's,  26 
Supreme   Constitutional   Court,  33, 

166-67,  170,  185,  194 
Supreme  Council  of  Judicature,  185 
Supreme  Court,  170,  185,  194 
Sweden:  in  United  Nations  Peace-keeping 
Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  216, 
236 

SWIFT.  See  Society  of  Worldwide  Inter- 
bank Financial  Telecommunications 

Switzerland:  loans  from,  231;  materiel 
from,  229 

symferon,  67 


Synomospondia  Ergaton  Kyprou  (SEK). 

See  Cyprus  Workers'  Confederation 
Syria,  12,  223 


Tactical  Police  Reserve,  238;  organized, 
218 

taksim,  4,  49,  57,  168 

Taliotis,  Yiannakis, 

Tamassos:  as  city-kingdom,  8 

tariffs:  instituted,  127;  reduced,  113;  re- 
moved, 127,  129,  141 

Tanm  Sigortasi,  147 

Taurus  Mountains,  50 

taxes:  and  agriculture,  117;  under  Brit- 
ish, 22;  income,  114,  170;  proposed, 
114;  remissions  of,  127;  revenue  from, 
114,  115;  used  for  defense,  230 

teachers,  73;  training,  100;  women  as,  70 

telecommunications,  109,  111,  134,  135, 
156-57 

telephones,  135,  157 

television,  135,  157,  188,  197 

Tenzel,  James  H.,  87 

terrain,  50-53 

terrorism,  223-24 

tertiary  sector.  See  service  sector 

Thutmose  III,  5 

TKP.  See  Communal  Liberation  Party 
TMT.  See  Turkish  Resistance  Organi- 
zation 

Toplumcu  Kurtulus,  Partisi  (TKP).  See 
Communal  Liberation  Party 

tourist  industry,  xxvi,  xxxiii,  54,  110, 
132,  144,  157;  construction  for,  130, 
131,  154;  effect  of  Turkish  invasion  on, 
132;  employment  in,  115,  132,  145;  ex- 
pansion of,  43-44,  65,  107,  108, 
132-34,  154,  157;  foreign  exchange 
from,  157;  as  percentage  of  GDP,  109; 
receipts,  110,  138;  as  source  of  foreign 
exchange,  108,  109;  upgrading  of,  107, 
113,  133-34 

tourists,  117;  demographics  of,  133;  num- 
ber of,  109,  132,  157 

trade,  109,  132,  157-58;  in  ancient  peri- 
od, 5;  deficit,  110,  112,  138,  140-41, 
158;  exhibitions,  128;  in  medieval  peri- 
od, 14;  as  percentage  of  GDP,  132; 
value  added  by,  132 

trade  unions.  See  labor  unions 

Trade  Unions  Law,  146 


299 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


training  centers,  127 
transportation,  109,  132,  134-35,  155-56 
Treaty  of  Alliance  (1959),  xxi,  xxiii,  xxxi, 
166,  202;  as  basis  for  1960  constitution, 
32;  considered  illegitimate,  35,  168;  ex- 
ternal intervention  under,  33,  169,  213, 
215,  217,  226;  foreign  policy  implica- 
tions of,  200;  status  of,  163-64 
Treaty  of  Establishment  (1959),  xxi,xxii, 
166,  213;  as  basis  for  1960  constitution, 
32;  considered  illegitimate,  168;  status 
of,  163-64 
Treaty  of  Guarantee  (1959),  xxi,  xxiii, 
xxxi,  166;  as  basis  for  1960  constitu- 
tion, 32;  considered  illegitimate,  35, 
168;  external  intervention  under,  33, 
42,  169,  213,  215,  219;  foreign  policy 
implications  of,  200;  status  of,  163-64 
Treaty  of  Lausanne  (1923),  21,  28 
Tripartite  Conference  (1955),  30 
Troodos  Mountains,  50-52;  agriculture 
in,  123;  resort  areas  in,  54;  water 
resources  in,  148 
Turk  Bankasi,  155 

Turkey,  xxi,  xxii,  xxiii,  xxiv,  xxxi,  xxxii, 
215;  aid  from,  153;  British  loans  to, 
20-21;  economic  agreement  of,  with 
"Turkish  Republic  of  Northern 
Cyprus,"  144;  emigration  to,  84;  in- 
terests of,  in  Cyprus,  28,  101,  213;  in- 
tervention by,  169;  as  member  of  North 
Adantic  Treaty  Organization,  28;  mili- 
tary training  by,  217;  opposition  of,  to 
enosis,  30-31;  relations  with,  199,  200, 
207-8;  subsidies  from,  208;  support  by, 
for  guerrilla  organizations,  34,  216;  de- 
pendence on,  143,  144-45,  192,  208; 
in  World  War  II,  21 

Turk  I§ci  Sendikalari  Federasynou 
(TURK-SEN).  See  Turkish  Cypriot 
Trade  Union  Federation 

Turkish  Air  Force,  219 

Turkish  Army,  43,  213-14,  219,  225, 
231;  arms  and  equipment  of,  232;  mis- 
sions of,  232 

Turkish  Cypriot  Airlines,  156 

Turkish  Cypriot  Communal  Chamber, 
97;  established,  38;  reaction  to,  38 

Turkish  Cypriot  Cooperative  Central 
Bank,  149,  155 

Turkish  Cypriot  enclaves,  172,  216;  es- 
tablished, 36 

Turkish  Cypriot  military  forces,  217 


Turkish  Cypriot  Police  Organization.  See 
Police  Organization,  Turkish  Cypriot 

Turkish  Cypriots,  5,  30,  55,  221;  ances- 
tors of,  7-8,  17,  82-83,  225;  attitude 
of,  toward  military,  225;  characteristics 
of,  87-88;  in  civil  service,  84;  class 
structure  of,  90;  conscription  of,  217; 
enosis  opposed  by,  28;  ethnic  identity 
of,  85;  family  structure  of,  91;  in  inter- 
communal  talks,  176;  in  Legislative 
Council,  21;  mufti  and,  97-98;  under 
1960  constitution,  165;  paramilitary 
force  of,  168,  213;  in  political  office,  32; 
religion  of,  93-99;  separation  desired 
by,  165,  174;  social  structure  of,  88-90; 
transitional  administration  of,  37-38, 
170-71;  in  Turkish  invasion,  219;  and 
Turkish  nationalism,  87;  withdrawal  of, 
from  Cypriot  government,  35,  38,  40, 
163,  168,  185,  196 

Turkish  Cypriot  Security  Force,  225,  232, 
238;  budget,  232-33;  conscription,  233; 
number  of  troops  in,  233;  reserves,  233 

Turkish  Cypriot  Trade  Union  Federation 
(TURK-SEN),  146 

"Turkish  Federated  State  of  Cyprus" 
("TFSC"),  44,  163,  164,  197 

Turkish  invasion  (1974),  xxiii,  4-5,  36, 
42-43,  49,  171-72,  219-20;  and  cease 
fire  in,  219-20;  and  construction  indus- 
try, 130;  and  economy,  108,  141;  and 
fishing,  124;  and  forests,  125;  and 
international  relations,  202;  and  manu- 
facturing, 127;  and  mining,  125; 
problems  caused  by,  78,  82,  107;  refu- 
gees from,  80-82;  role  of  United  Na- 
tions Peace-keeping  Force  in  Cyprus 
(UNFICYP)  in,  234-36;  and  tourism, 
132;  violations  by,  of  cease  fire,  219-20, 
221 

Turkish-Islamic  Synthesis,  98 

Turkish  nationalism,  87,  96 

Turkish  Religious  Trust.  See  Evkaf  Idaresi 

"Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus" 
("TRNC"),  164,  197;  agriculture  in, 
146-47,  149;  area  of,  148;  banking  in, 
154-55;  brain  drain  from,  101;  consti- 
tution of,  93,  165,  193-95;  currency, 
144;  districts  in,  195;  economic  agree- 
ment of,  with  Turkey,  144;  economic 
blockade  of,  93,  141,  142,  158; 
economic  dependence  of,  on  Turkey, 
143,  144-45;  economy  of,  143,  144; 


300 


Index 


education  in,  99-102;  electricity  for, 
130;  established,  5,  44-45,  163,  179; 
executive  in,  194;  foreign  policies  of, 
207;  free  economic  zones  in,  143;  gross 
domestic  product  of,  142;  isolation  of, 
199;  judiciary  in,  194-95;  lack  of  recog- 
nition for,  5,  108,  142,  158,  163,  184, 
192,  207,  208-9;  legislature  in,  194; 
manufacturing  in,  153;  military  forces 
in,  231-33;  municipalities  of,  195;  po- 
litical institutions  in,  193-95;  political 
parties,  195-97;  population,  82-85; 
power  plant  in,  153-54;  relations  of, 
with  Turkey,  207-8;  religion  in,  93; 
representation  missions  of,  208;  State 
Planning  Organisation,  84;  tourism  in, 
144;  trade  in,  157-58;  villages  in,  195 

Turkish  Resistance  Organization  (TMT), 
29,  195,  215,  216,  232;  resurgence  of, 
34,  171,  216;  in  Turkish  invasion,  219 

Turk-Islam  Sentezi.  See  Turkish-Islamic 
Synthesis 

Turk  Mukavement  Te§kilati  (TMT).  See 
Turkish  Resistance  Organization 

TURK-SEN.  See  Turkish  Cypriot  Trade 
Union  Federation 

Tyre:  siege  of,  9 

UBP.  See  National  Unity  Party 
Ucok,  Orhan,  197 

Ulusal  Birlik  Partisi  (UBP).  See  National 
Unity  Party 

unemployment:  in  agriculture,  117;  com- 
pensation, 78;  among  Greek  Cypriots, 
107,  108,  112,  115;  after  Turkish  in- 
vasion, 78,  107,  112;  among  Turkish 
Cypriots,  145 

UNFICYP.  See  United  Nations  Peace- 
keeping Force  in  Cyprus 

Unified  Democratic  Party  (Eniaion),  40 

United  Democratic  Union  of  Cyprus 
(EDEK),  xxvii-xxviii,  44,  188;  election 
results  for,  187;  formed,  187;  platform 
of,  187 

United  Nations:  Makarios's  addresses  to, 
27,  31;  membership  in,  33,  200;  peti- 
tioned for  self-determination,  27,  28; 
position  on  Cyprus,  29-30 

United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Elimi- 
nation of  all  Forms  of  Discrimination 
against  Women,  68 

United  Nations  Peace-keeping  Force  in 


Cyprus  (UNFICYP),  xxiii,  xxxii,  36, 
41,  117,  204,  214,  220,  225,  234-37; 
buffer  zone  guarded  by,  172,  220-21; 
command  of,  236;  countries  participat- 
ing in,  236;  duties  of,  237;  establish- 
ment of,  4,  35,  170,  216;  funding  for, 
236-37;  maintenance  costs  of,  236; 
mandate  of,  234;  number  of,  35,  234; 
organization  of,  236;  role  of,  in  Turk- 
ish invasion,  234-36;  salaries  of,  236; 
support  for,  233,  234;  surveillance  by, 
236;  troop  rotation  in,  236;  uniforms 
of,  236 

United  Nations  Security  Council,  170, 
226,  234;  intervention  of,  in  ethnic  ten- 
sions, 35;  intervention  of,  in  intercom- 
munal  talks,  177;  Resolution  649  in, 
182 

United  States,  224;  cooperation  of,  with 
British,  233;  forces,  233;  imports  from, 
140;  intelligence  gathering  by,  224;  in- 
volvement of,  in  intercommunal  talks, 
176,  184;  materiel  from,  232;  medita- 
tion by,  217;  relations  with,  203-5; 
trade  with,  157;  university  students  in, 
75,  101 

United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disarm- 
ament Agency  (AC DA),  230-31 

United  States  Department  of  State,  204, 
242 

University  of  Cyprus,  75 

University  College  of  North  Cyprus,  100 

urban  areas:  birth  rates  in,  59;  families 
in,  91;  fertility  rates  in,  59;  occupations 
in,  68;  political  affiliations  in,  40;  popu- 
lation in,  61;  Turkish  Cypriots  in,  88 

urbanization,  49,  61,  89-90;  circum- 
stances of,  63,  89;  and  marriage,  66 

urban  migration,  59-61;  for  education,  63 

U  Thant,  35,  38 

value-added  tax  (VAT),  114 

Varosha  issue,  175,  177 

Vasilikos:  port  of,  125,  135 

Vassiliou,  George,  xxx,  201;  attempts  by, 
to  change  government,  191-92;  back- 
ground of,  190;  cabinet  of,  191;  election 
campaign,  191;  platform  of,  190-91;  as 
president,  44,  113,  164,  181,  184-86, 
187,  189,  203,  229;  skills  of,  191 

Vassiliou-Denktas.  Meetings  (1988-90), 
181-84 


301 


Cyprus:  A  Country  Study 


Veniamin,  Christodoulos,  191 
Venice:  Famagusta  ceded  to,  14;  trade 
with,  14 

Venetian  rule,  16-17,  55,  57,  224;  ori- 
gins of,  16;  Ottoman  attacks  under,  17; 
religion  under,  70-71 

Venizelos,  Sophocles,  27 

Veterinary  Service,  119 

vice  president,  32 

village  councils,  185-86;  elections  for,  186 
villages:  family  contacts  in,  67 
Volkan,  28-29,  215 
Volkan,  Vamik,  83,  87 


wage:  increases,  116;  indexation,  116; 
military,  228;  minimum,  145;  real,  145 

Waldheim,  Kurt:  evaluation  by,  of  talks, 
179;  intercommunal  talks  led  by,  171, 
175-77,  221 

water  resources  (see  also  climate),  119, 
147-48;  collection  of,  119,  147;  dams, 
53,  119,  147,  148;  development 
projects,  148;  inland  waterways,  53 

weather.  See  climate 

welfare  system,  49,  65;  community 
centers  in,  82;  protective  legislation  in, 
68;  social  insurance,  77-79;  social  wel- 
fare, 79-80 

WFTU.  See  World  Federation  of  Trade 
Unions 

Wilkenson,  James,  204 

wine,  123-24 


women  (see  also  gender  relations):  demon- 
strations by,  214,  220,  222-23;  dis- 
crimination against,  50;  education  of, 
68,  73,  75;  emigration  of,  61;  as  house- 
wives, 70,  92;  in  marriage,  66,  92-93; 
in  military,  228;  as  mothers,  70;  occu- 
pations of,  70;  protection  of,  68;  social 
insurance  benefits  for,  78;  status  of, 
68-70;  in  work  force,  50,  59,  66,  68,  93 
Women's  Walk  Home,  222-23 
workers:  construction,  130;  shortage  of, 
115 

work  force:  in  agriculture,  117,  145-46; 

women  in,  50,  59,  66,  68,  93 
World  Bank:  economic  aid  from,  142; 

membership  in,  34 
World  Council  of  Churches,  26 
World   Federation   of  Trade  Unions 

(WFTU),  146 
World  War  II,  21 ;  Cypriot  volunteers  in, 

23-24,  225 


YDP.  See  New  Dawn  Party 

Yeni  Dogus.  Partisi  (YDP).  See  New  Dawn 

Party 
Yialias  River,  53 

youth:  centers,  80,  82;  services,  80 
Yugoslavia:  loans  from,  231;  materiel 
from,  229 


Zeno  (emperor),  11 


302 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Taoan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

CvDrus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

C  zechoslo  vakia 

550-79 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

303 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

304 


PIN: 004189*000 


