r 


•i",    -€ 
^^'O* 


.'^^'^ 


^oV^ 


•^-^    • 


,^o^ 


5 


.^''^ 


.^'^^ 


^^-n^.  ^-^ 


•  ■«' 


.^  .,. 


•  a  0 


^Cr^9^ 


0*^  r'^.^' 


^""^ 


'^      A*' 


♦        aV      "^^ 


1^ 


V-S' 


0' 


'bV- 


.^S'' 


"^         'WI^W»         A^-^  ^^6^=         c'^^rv         o^^^^»         aV«^.  - 


^^-n^^ 


r^ 


^ 


«^  xV  ^^  -     *    *    •  4  ' 


IIIIIIMMIIMMMIMnilllMMIMIIIIIIMMIMIIIII 


IC    9248 


BUREAU  OF  MINES 
INFORMATION  CIRCULAR/1990 

y93 


Dust  Control  In  Coal  Preparation  and 
Mineral  Processing  Plants 

By  Edward  F.  Divers  and  Andrew  B.  Cecala 


U.S.  BUREAU  OF  MINES 
1910-1990 

THE  MINERALS  SOURCE 


^AU  OF  >^' 


Mission:  Asthe  Nation's  principal  conservation 
agency,  the  Department  of  the  Interior  has  respon- 
sibility for  most  of  our  nationally-owned  public 
lands  and  natural  and  cultural  resources.  This 
includes  fostering  wise  use  of  our  land  and  water 
resources,  protecting  our  fish  and  wildlife,  pre- 
serving the  environmental  and  cultural  values  of 
our  national  parks  and  historical  places,  and  pro- 
viding for  the  enjoyment  of  life  through  outdoor 
recreation.  The  Department  assesses  our  energy 
and  mineral  resources  and  works  to  assure  that 
their  development  is  in  the  best  interests  of  all 
our  people.  The  Department  also  promotes  the 
goals  of  the  Take  Pride  in  America  campaign  by 
encouraging  stewardship  and  citizen  responsibil- 
ity for  the  public  lands  and  promoting  citizen  par- 
ticipation in  their  care.  The  Department  also  has 
a  major  responsibility  for  American  Indian  reser- 
vation communities  and  for  people  who  live  in 
Island  Territories  under  U.S.  Administration. 


Information  Circular  9248 


Dust  Control  in  Coal  Preparation  and 
IVIineral  Processing  Plants 

By  Edward  F.  Divers  and  Andrew  B.  Cecala 


UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  INTERIOR 
Manuel  Lujan,  Jr.,  Secretary 

BUREAU  OF  MINES 
T  S  Ary,  Director 


^^ 


\ 


^ 


<o 


Library  of  Congress  Cataloging  in  Publication  Data: 


Divers,  Edward  F. 

Dust  control  in  coal  preparation  and  mineral  processing  plants  /  by  Edward  F. 
Divers  and  Andrew  B.  Cecala. 

p.    cm.  —  (Information  circular  /  Bureau  of  Mines;  9248) 

Includes  bibliographical  references. 

1.  Coal  preparation  plants — Dust  control.  2.  Ore-dressing  plants — Dust  control. 
I.  Cecala,  Andrew  B.  II.  Title.  III.  Series:  Information  circular  (United  States. 
Bureau  of  Mines);  9248 


TN295.U4 


[TN816]        622  s--dc20  [622'.83] 


90-1528 
CIP 


CONTENTS 

Page 

Abstract 1 

Introduction 2 

Background   2 

Coal  preparation    2 

Mineral  processing 2 

Dust  sampling  instruments 2 

Ventilation 3 

Whole  plant 3 

Local  exhaust 3 

Air  cleaners 4 

Baghouse-type  dust  collectors 4 

Scrubbers 5 

Electrostatic  precipitators 6 

Control  at  source 7 

Water  sprays   7 

Good  housekeeping   7 

Personal  protection  devices 8 

Dust  helmets 8 

Respirators    9 

Special  problems    9 

Pipe  and  duct  clogging 9 

Control  room  dust 10 

Conclusions    11 

References 11 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

1.  Effects  of  bulk-loading  outside  on  worker's  exposure  inside  mill    3 

2.  Wall  exhaustor — typical  layout 4 

3.  Baghouse-type  dust  collector    4 

4.  Small-diameter  cyclone  type  scrubber 5 

5.  Flooded  fibrous  bed-type  scrubber 5 

6.  Venturi-type  scrubber — horizontal  arrangement 5 

7.  Venturi-type  scrubber — vertical  arrangement 6 

8.  Electrostatic  precipitator    7 

9.  Increase  in  worker's  dust  exposure  from  broom  sweeping 8 

10.  High  capacity  remote  vacuum  system 8 

11.  Dust  helmet    8 

12.  Disposable-type  respirator 9 

13.  Positive  pressure-type  respirator 9 

14.  Settling  type  drop-out  chamber    10 

15.  Baffle  type  drop-out  chamber 10 

16.  Centrifugal  type  drop-out  chamber 10 

TABLE 

1.    Respirable  dust  test  results    6 


UNIT  OF  MEASURE  ABBREVIATIONS  USED  IN  THIS  REPORT 

Btu/h 

British  thermal  unit  per 

hour 

hp 

horsepower 

cfm 

cubic  foot  per  minute 

in 

inch 

ft 

foot 

inHjO 

in  of  water  (pressure) 

ft' 

cubic  foot 

mg/m' 

milligram  per  cubic  meter 

ft/min 

foot  per  minute 

min 

minute 

gpm 

gcdlon  per  minute 

pet 

percent 

h 

hour 

st/h 

short  ton  per  hour 

DUST  CONTROL  IN  COAL  PREPARATION 
AND  MINERAL  PROCESSING  PLANTS 


By  Edward  F.  Divers^  and  Andrew  B.  Cecala^ 


ABSTRACT 

This  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines  report  briefly  evciluates  the  advjmtages  and  disadvantages  of  basic  dust 
control  techniques  presently  used  by  U.S.  coal  preparation  and  mineral  processing  plants.  These  include 
ventilation,  baghouse-type  collectors,  wet  scrubbers,  electrostatic  precipitators,  source  control,  sprays, 
good  housekeeping,  and  personal  protection  devices.  Two  specific  problems  in  these  types  of  operations 
are  also  considered:   dust  collector  system  duct  clogging,  and  control  room  dust  control. 

Information  provided  in  this  report  results  from  dust  control  research  projects  conducted  by  the 
Bureau  at  various  coal  preparation  and  mineral  processing  plants  over  the  past  decade  to  reduce 
workers'  dust  exposure.  These  studies  indicate  that  plant  ventilation  systems  normally  provide  the  most 
cost  effective  method  for  dust  control.  Baghouses  and  scrubbers  were  also  effective  in  specific 
appUcations,  and  examples  of  each  are  given.  In  extreme  dust  conditions,  personal  protection  devices, 
such  as  respirators  or  the  dust  helmet,  can  also  be  highly  cost  effective. 

Mining  engineers,  Pittsburgh  Research  Center,  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines,  Pittsburgh,  PA. 


INTRODUCTION 


Coal  preparation  and  mineral  processing  plants  can 
present  a  wide  vciriety  of  dust  problems.  Fortunately, 
the  problems  in  both  types  of  plants  can  be  reduced  or 
resolved  by  the  same  basic  techniques  previously 
mentioned.    This  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines  report  provides 


information  to  operators  considering  various  options  for 
dust  control.  Its  conclusions  are  primarily  based  on  the 
field  experience  of  Bureau  personnel  and  plant  operators 
and  can  be  applied  to  most,  if  not  all,  plant  dust  problems. 


BACKGROUND 


COAL  PREPARATION 

There  are  approximately  500  coal  preparation  plants  in 
the  United  States.  The  number  of  operators  in  each  plant 
ranges  from  about  3  to  10  per  shift;  raw  capacity  ranges 
from  roughly  250  to  1,250  st/h. 

A  recent  Bureau  survey  of  21  coal  preparation  plants 
showed  that  one-third  had  highly  localized  respirable  dust 
levels.  These  were  dust  levels  in  given  specific  areas  of 
the  plant  and  not  exposure  levels  of  plant  personnel.  No 
relationship  was  found  between  dust  concentration  and  age 
or  capacity  of  the  plant.  Some  old  plants  show  1  mg/m^ 
or  less  in  all  areas.  Some  new  plants  had  respirable  dust 
concentrations  up  to  11  mg/m^  in  specific  areas.  In 
general,  these  areas  only  had  temporary  occupancy,  seldom 
exceeding  several  hours.  High  dust  concentrations  were 
closely  associated  with  dry  coal.  With  a  few  exceptions, 
these  high  dust  concentrations  were  found  in  poorly 
ventilated  areas  on  the  ground  floor.  Excluding  venti- 
lation, few  plants  use  operating  dust  control  devices.  Silica 
(quartz)  analysis  made  on  gravimetric  samples  from  coal 
preparation  plants  show  that  the  percent  siHca  was  usually 
below  Federal  limits. 

MINERAL  PROCESSING 

There  are  well  over  1,000  mineral  processing  plants  in 
the  United  States.  While  dust  concentrations  in  these 
plants  are  generally  much  lower  than  in  coal  preparation 
plants,  the  associated  respiratory  problem  can  be  more 
severe  due  to  siUca.  In  recent  years.  Bureau  studies  have 
concentrated  on  those  mineral  processing  plants  having 
silica  problems;  the  percent  silica  on  gravimetric  samples 
varies  from  0  to  over  90  pet.  The  problem  can  be  espe- 
cially severe  in  the  silica  sand  industry  where  respirable 
silica  usually  is  in  the  80  to  90  pet  range.  When  silica  is 
present,  the  FederaJ  dust  standcu^d  is  tightened  below  the 
usual  2  mg/m^. 

Unlike  coal  preparation,  mineral  processing  plants 
usually  process  the  product  completely  dry  because  of 
screen  and  duct  clogging  problems  associated  with  wet 
products.   When  products  JU"e  hygroscopic,  the  possibility 


for  any  type  of  wet  processing  is  excluded.  Another  major 
difference  is  that  many  workers  at  mineral  processing 
plants  spend  the  majority  of  the  workday  at  a  specific 
location,  which  is  not  common  in  coal  preparation  plants. 
This  can  extend  ventilation  to  year-round  use,  and  fixed 
worker  locations  can  be  economically  heated  by  infrared 
devices.  Although  they  are  not  generally  recommended 
due  to  costs,  the  use  of  steam,  foams,  and  water  additives 
(surfactants)  may  be  appropriate  for  some  mineral 
processing  plants.  Water  sprays  can  also  be  an  effective 
seasonal  or  occasional  dry  product  (such  as  strip  coal) 
control  technique  for  both  types  of  plcmts. 

DUST  SAMPLING  INSTRUMENTS 

Two  types  of  dust  sampling  equipment  were  used 
during  these  evaluations:  gravimetric  dust  samplers  and/or 
instantaneous  dust  monitors  called  real-time  aerosol 
monitors  (RAM)  (1)} 

Gravimetric  dust  samples  have  been  the  primary  means 
of  determining  respirable  dust  concentrations  used  by  the 
Mine  Safety  and  Health  Administration  (MSHA)  since 
dust  monitoring  became  a  mandated  practice  as  estab- 
Ushed  by  the  1969  Federeil  Mine  Health  and  Safety  Act. 
Although  gravimetric  sampling  is  performed  for  all  com- 
pUance  testing,  it  is  not  the  most  advantageous  technique 
for  many  studies  because  of  the  time  required  to  obtain 
dust  data. 

The  instantaneous  RAM-1  dust  monitor  built  by 
Monitoring  Instruments  for  the  Environment  (MIE),  Inc., 
Bedford,  MA  overcomes  the  drawbacks  of  gravimetric 
sampling.  The  RAM-1  unit  instantaneously  calculates 
respirable  dust  concentrations.  However,  the  RAM-1 
cannot  distinguish  the  quartz  concentration  of  the  dust. 

Visucd  observation  can  be  an  effective  technique  for 
estimating  dust  concentrations,  even  though  water  mist  can 
cause  problems.  As  a  general  guideUne,  respirable  dust 
concentrations  below  2  mg/m'  will  not  create  visibiUty 
problems  or  hcdoing  around  lights;  these  are  especially 

ntalic  numbers  in  parentheses  refer  to  items  in  the  list  of  references 
at  the  end  of  this  report. 


evident  above  5  or  6  mg/m'.  Visibility  problems  beyond 
50  or  60  ft  typically  start  at  8  to  10  mg/m^,  and  distinct 
visibility  problems  beyond  20  to  30  ft  occur  above  15  or  20 


mg/m^.  At  these  high  respirable  concentrations,  coal  dust 
odor  can  be  detected  and  rapid  accumulation  of  all  types 
of  larger  dust  p2u-ticles  on  most  surfaces  is  evident. 


VENTILATION 


WHOLE  PLANT 

Ventilation  can  be  an  excellent  low-cost  dust  control 
technique  for  all  plants  during  mUd  weather.  Plants  using 
effective  ventilation  systems  have  low  dust  concentrations, 
with  peaks  generally  below  2  mg/m^  respirable.  These 
systems  consists  of  powered  exhaustors  (fans)  or  gravity 
ventilators  in  the  roof,  open  access  doors,  and  open-close- 
type  wall  louvers  at  grade.  Due  to  a  sUght  increase  in 
initial  plant  costs,  ventilation  systems  are  not  built  into 
most  plants.  However,  since  ductwork  is  not  required, 
subsequent  addition  of  a  ventilation  system  can  be 
relatively  inexpensive,  about  $1  per  cubic  foot  per  minute 
for  a  powered  roof  exhaustor  system  with  adjustable 
louvers  at  grade.  Powered  roof  exhaustors  should  be  sized 
to  provide  between  6  to  12  air  changes  per  hoiu".  Where 
dust  concentrations  are  known  or  safely  assumed  to  be 
low,  6  to  8  air  changes  per  hour  can  be  used. 


Air  changes  per  hour 


Total  volume  exhausted  per  hour 
Total  volume  of  ventilated  building 


However,  long-term,  high  dust  concentrations,  above 
6  mg/m^,  may  not  be  adequately  controlled  by  ventilation 
alone.  In  these  cases,  primary  efforts  should  be  directed 
to  control  at  the  dust  source,  or  using  dust  collectors  such 
as  baghouses  or  scrubbers. 

Design  guidelines  for  the  installation  of  plant 
ventilation  systems  am  be  found  in  the  "ASHRAE 
Handbook  of  Fimdamentals"  or  their  systems  handbook 
published  by  the  American  Society  of  Heating, 
Refrigeration,  and  Air-Conditioning  Engineers,  Inc., 
Atlanta,  GA,  or  "Industrial  Ventilation"  published  by  the 
Committee  on  Industrial  Ventilation,  Cincinnati,  OH. 

For  ventilation  to  be  effective  as  a  dust  control 
technique,  it  is  critical  that  the  design  be  capable  of 
supplying  relatively  clean  makeup  air  to  the  system.  If  air 
supplied  to  the  ventilation  system  is  contaminated,  the 
ventilation  system  can  be  ineffective  and  may  increase  a 


worker's  dust  exposure.  This  occiu-red  at  a  mineral 
processing  plant  where  trailer  trucks  were  being  bulk- 
loaded  outside  a  mill  building  (fig.  1).  The  dusty  air 
generated  from  the  bulk-loading  process  was  drawn  into 
the  mill  as  makeup  jiir  for  a  ventilation  system;  worker's 
dust  exposure  was  increased  147  pet  over  previous 
(normal)  levels  diuing  the  buUc-loading.  Inlet  louvers 
should  not  be  placed  neai  outside  dust  or  other 
contaminant  sources. 

LOCAL  EXHAUST 

Local  exhaust  through  wzdl  exhaustors,  fans,  and  other 
devices  can  be  a  highly  cost-effective  technique  for 
removing  dust  from  specific,  generally  small,  cueas.  This 
is  frequently  done  with  wall-mounted  propeller  fans 
properly  protected  cmd  mounted  close  to  the  dust  source, 
usually  without  ductwork  (fig.  2).  Fan  volumetric  capac- 
ities generally  range  from  10,000  to  25,000  cfm  or  more, 
with  motors  from  1  to  5  hp.  The  exhaustors  aie  controlled 
by  operation  of  the  dust-generating  soiu-ce,  such  as  a 
crusher,  emd/or  mjmual  control.  Because  strong  outside 
winds  can  negatively  affect  the  performance  of  exhaustors, 
their  placement  should  normally  be  on  the  nonwindward 
(lee)  side  of  buildings. 


Bulk  loading  outside 


8  12 

TIME,  min 

Figure    1. -Effects    of    bulk-loading    outside    on    worker's 
exposure  inside  mill. 


Airflow 


Guard 
(outside) 


and  boot 


Manual   shutter 
(aluminunn) 


Figure  2.-Wall  exhauster — typical  layout 


AIR  CLEANERS 


BAGHOUSE-TYPE  DUST  COLLECTORS 

Baghouses  collect  airborne  dust  by  filtration  through 
special  cloths,  somewhat  similar  to  a  home  vacuum 
sweeper.  The  collected  dust  is  normally  shaken  auto- 
matically from  the  filters  into  a  hopper  (fig.  3).  Baghouses 
have  several  advantages,  especially  for  mineral  processing 
plants:  they  offer  high  dust  collection  efficiency  that  is 
essentially  independent  of  mineral  type,  cmd  they  do  not 
use  water.  When  in-plant  space  is  not  available,  outside 
installations  are  generally  successful.  Disadvantages  are 
size  (especially  height),  duct  routing  and  cost,  handling  of 
the  collected  dust,  and  frequent  problems  when  excessive 
moisture  or  water  is  in  the  air.  Initial  cost  generailly 
exceeds  $4  per  cubic  foot  per  minute.  Nevertheless, 
baghouses  are  especially  recommended  for  those  plamts  on 
a  reduced  silica  standard.  Where  very  high  dust  collection 
efficiency  is  required,  use  a  baghouse. 

Visible  dust  in  the  exhaust  plume  always  indicates 
problems  in  baghouse  systems.  For  example,  at  one  coal 
preparation  plant  a  38,000  cfm  outside  unit  discharged  to 
the  atmosphere.  A  visible  plume  was  emitted  from  its 
exhaust  and  respirable  dust  sampling  showed  a  concen- 
tration of  5.0  mg/m^.  This  was  caused  by  torn  bags. 
Properly  designed  and  maintained  systems  will  show  less 
than  1  mg/m  in  the  exhaust  plume,  and  no  visible  dust. 

Another  baghouse  system  was  located  on  the  second 
floor  of  a  5-year  old  plant.  Its  capacity  was  approximately 
15,000  cfm,  and  it  eilso  exhausted  to  the  outside.  A  simple 


manually  operated  spUtter  was  installed  in  the  fan 
discharge  duct  that  also  allowed  inside  discharge  during 
cold  weather.  Since  the  system  was  adequately  main- 
tained, exhaust  concentrations  averaged  0.70  mg/m^. 
Inside  discharge  during  severe  cold  weather  saved  over  1 
milhon  Btu/h  by  reducing  makeup  air  heating  cost.  Inside 
discharge  should  not  be  used  when  sihca  dust  is  present. 


Collector-fan 


Clean  air 
out 


Solid  floor 
perforated 
at  bag  inlet 


Figure  3.-Baghouse-type  dust  collector. 


Silica  dust  presents  a  serious  dust  hazard  and  requires  the 
plant  to  meet  a  lower  Federal  dust  standard. 

Baghouses  can  achieve  very  high  respirable  dust 
collection  efficiency,  well  above  99  pet  with  special  bag 
filter  material.  This  high  efficiency  cannot  be  readily 
achieved  by  scrubbers.  However,  scrubber  efficiency  can 
be  adequate  for  most  coal  preparation  appUcations. 

SCRUBBERS 

Scrubbers  frequently  offer  another  practical  control 
method,  especially  for  coal  preparation  plant  dust  control. 
They  collect  airborne  dust  by  highly  turbulent  collision 
with  water  droplets  or  a  wetted  surface,  the  water  then 
being  separated  from  the  airstreemi.  The  water  consumed 
does  not  present  problems  to  most  coal  preparation  plant 
operators,  but  can  make  them  imsuitable  for  minereds 


processing.  Dust  collector  efficiency  can  be  sufficient  to 
allow  the  scrubbed  air  to  be  discharged  back  into  the 
plant,  and  they  £ire  small  enough  to  allow  them  to  be 
retrofitted  into  operating  plants.  Typical  components 
consist  of  a  25,000  to  50,000  cfm  fan  generally  operating 
between  6  to  10  in  HjO,  the  scrubbing  device,  water  sprays 
at  a  flow  rate  between  0.5  and  3  gpm  per  1,000  cfm  of 
airflow,  a  water  droplet  eliminator  and  duct  work  to 
various  dust  sources.  Initial  costs  are  $2  to  $3  per  cubic 
foot  per  minute,  and  mziintenance  is  uncomplicated. 

Disadvantages  are  fan  power  cost  and  fan  noise, 
potential  clogging,  and  cold  weather  freezing  problems. 

Three  commonly  used  types  of  scrubbers  were  eval- 
uated for  this  work:  the  small-diameter  cyclone  (fig.  4), 
the  flooded  bed  (fig.  5),  and  the  venturi  (fig.  6)  (2).  The 
primary  purpose  was  to  determine  if  the  cleaned  air  could 
be  safely  dischairged  back  into  the  plant. 


-Turning  vanes 


Airflow 
U^  to  fan 


Figure  4.-Small-diameter  cyclone  type  scrubber. 


-Spray  Blade  type 

nozzles       rnist  eliminator-, 

''^    [   pLj^  Airflow 
_T^  to  fan 


/ 


' — ^  Drain 
Figure  5.-Fiooded  fibrous  bed-type  scrubber. 


Long 
transition 


Blade  type  mist 


eliminator-i       transition- 


Centrifugal 
fan 


Dusty  air 
inlet  duct 


Figure  6.-Venturi-type  scrubber — horizontal  arrangement 


Dust  sampling  results  showed  that  all  three  can  do  jui 
adequate  job  of  dust  control  at  the  pickup  locations. 
Results  at  the  vicinity  of  the  scrubber  fiui  discharge  were 
determined  (table  1). 

Table  1  .-Respirable  dust  test  results' 
(8-h  gravimetric  averages  at  scrubber) 


Scrubber  type 

Discharge, 
mg/m^ 

Efficiency, 
pet 

Small-diameter  cyclone   . . . 

Flooded  fibrous  bed 

Venturl 

2.47 
1.12 
3.09 

88 
95 
85 

Mnlet  was  21  for  all  three  types  of  scrubbers. 

The  flooded  bed  scrubber  was  more  than  twice  as 
efficient  as  the  small-diameter  cyclone,  allowing  unlimited 
exposiu-e  time.  The  results  are  consistent  with  previous 
Biu-eau  studies  comparing  both  scrubber  types  (3-4). 
However,  both  scrubbers  clogged  with  coal  particles, 
creating  imacceptable  maintenance  problems.  Air  pressure 
drop  across  the  flooded  bed  panel  increased  from  3.8  to 
6.5  in  of  water  during  9  h  of  typical  operation  due  to 
clogging.  The  cyclone  panel  increased  about  hadf  of  this 
2.7  in  rise,  i.e.,  1.37  in,  under  identical  conditions.  Proper 
operation  of  these  scrubbers  is  highly  dependent  upon  a 
steady  and  uniform  application  of  spray  water.  Clogged 
and  partly  clogged  sprays  decrease  the  dust  collection 
efficiency,  and  increase  the  pressure  buildup  across  both 
cyclone  and  flooded  bed  types. 

Aucdysis  of  the  used  flooded  bed  panels  showed  that 
clogging  was  primarily  caused  by  large  particulate  (up  to 
1/16-in)  embedded  in  the  mesh.  This  indicates  that  the 
dust  inlet  duct  was  located  too  close  to  the  dust  source.  In 
most  underground  applications,  the  flooded  bed  panels  are 
cleaned  once  per  shift  by  drying  and  shaking,  or  by  direct 
flushing  with  a  hose. 

The  venturi  showed  no  indication  of  clogging.  Its 
efficiency  was  limited  by  the  fan  pressure  capabihty  in  this 
installation  that  only  allowed  a  maximimi  of  6  in  HjO 
gauge  differential  pressure  across  the  ventiu-i  throat.  The 
dust  collection  efficiency  of  a  venturi  scrubber  is  essen- 
tially unlimited,  and  primarily  dependent  on  fan  pressme 
capability  and  waterflow  rate.  Past  Bureau  work  shows 
that  a  throat  differential  above  10  in  H2O  gauge  would 
keep  discharge  concentrations  below  2  mg/m  in  this 
installation  (5). 

Owing  to  its  simplicity  and  low  cost,  venturi-type 
scrubbers  can  be  readily  recommended  for  coal  prep- 
aration plants.  They  are  commercially  available  in  a  wide 


range  of  configiu-ations,  including  vertical  (fig.  7).  As  a 
gmdeline,  minimiun  throat  differential  pressures  should 
be  6,  10,  and  15  in  HjO  gauge  for  respective  inlet  con- 
centrations of  10,  20,  and  30  mg/m^  respirable  dust.  A 
venturi  should  not  be  operated  at  less  than  4  in  HjO  gauge 
pressiu-e  drop  across  the  throat. 

ELECTROSTATIC  PRECIPITATORS 

Electrostatic  precipitators  (5)  pass  airborne  dust 
between  electrically  charged  plates  (fig.  8).  This  causes 
the  dust  to  migrate  toward  and  adhere  to  the  plates;  this 
dust  is  then  automatically  shaken  or  washed  from  the 
plates.  Precipitators  offer  several  advantages,  including 
very-high  dust  collection  efficiency,  and  very-low  air 
pressure  drop  (1/2-in  HjO  gauge  across  the  precipitator). 
This  results  in  low  fan  power  requirements.  Initial,  $1  to 
$1.50  per  cubic  foot  per  minute,  and  operating  costs  are 
lower  than  scrubbers  or  baghouses. 


Dusty 
air  in 


-Drain 
Figure  7.-Venturl-type  scrubber — vertical  arrangement 


Disadvantages  include  fairly  large  in  size,  and  a 
requirement  for  relatively  experienced  m2dnten2mce 
personnel  to  work  with  the  high  voltages,  and  potential 
sparking  problems  associated  with  high  voltages. 
Efficiency  is  reduced  if  subjected  to  vibration,  if  inlet  air 
velocity  is  not  uniform,  and  if  shutdown  time  is  required 
for  cleaning.  Detergent  water  is  frequently  required  for 
cleaning. 

Results  of  efficiency  tests  of  electrostatic  precipitators 
showed  a  wide  efficiency  difference  between  various  plants. 
One  5,000  cfm  installation  was  only  30  pet  efficient  on 
respirable  coed  dust.  Minerals  containing  sodiimi  can  also 
present  problems  when  high  dust  collection  efficiency  is 
required.  For  best  results,  electrostatic  efficiency  data  on 
the  specific  dust  and  installation  should  be  obtained  before 
purchasing  a  precipitator. 


Gas 
passage 
between 
plates 


Dischorge 
electrode 


Hopper- 
Figure  8.-Electrostatic  precipitator. 


CONTROL  AT  SOURCE 


For  maximum  cost  effectiveness,  dust  should  be 
controlled  at  its  source  prior  to  dilution  and  dispersal. 
Usually,  dust  sources  are  determined  by  visual  observation, 
especially  diuing  startup  or  on-off  procedures.  Precise 
determination  of  the  appropriate  control  technique  de- 
pends on  many  factors,  some  beyond  the  scope  of  this 
report.  However,  these  general  guidelines  should  be 
followed: 

*  A  thorough  dust  survey  should  be  conducted  when 
it  appeeu-s  that  control  costs  will  be  significant. 

*  The  survey  should  at  least  determine  the  dust  type 
(if  unknown),  its  sources,  extent,  and  concentration. 

*  The  control  technique  should  be  primarily  based  on 
survey  data.  For  example,  simple  ventilation  may  be 
suitable  for  a  dust  concentration  of  4  mg/m^,  but  not 
for  10  mg/m^. 

Although  not  pointed  out  in  most  literature,  high  dust 
concentrations  or  low  threshold  limit  value  (TLV)  usually 
require  more  severe  and  costly  controls,  such  as  baghouses 
or  scrubbers.  Frequently,  two  control  techniques  such  as 
water  sprays  and  ventilation  can  work  together  for  maxi- 
mum cost  effectiveness. 

WATER  SPRAYS 

Where  the  product  aillows,  water  sprays  can  be  very  cost 
effective  for  dust  source  control  (6-7).  Their  primary 
effectiveness  is  in  keeping  the  dust  from  becoming 
airborne,  accordingly  the  effectiveness  is  primarily  de- 
pendent on  flow  rate  and  coverage,  not  water  pressure. 
Once  airborne,  respirable  dust  is  very  difficult  to  knock 
down.  This  knockdown  effectiveness  is  dependent  on  flow 
rate  emd  pressure,  and  the  best  spray  systems  seldom 
exceed  60  pet  efficiency  on  respirable  dust.  Although  not 


generally  recommended  due  to  cost,  water  additives 
(surfactants)  (8),  foams  (9),  and  steam  (10)  can  occasion- 
cdly  provide  additional  source  control. 

GOOD  HOUSEKEEPING 

Effective  housekeeping  is  essential  for  maintaining 
acceptable  dust  levels.  Product  material  allowed  to 
buildup  on  the  walls,  beams,  equipment,  floors,  and 
walkways  can  be  readily  dispersed.  Dust  buildup  on  grated 
floors  and  walkways  is  a  significant  dust  contributor, 
especially  with  the  higher  floor  levels;  a  worker  can  create 
a  significant  amount  of  dust  just  walking  across  this 
grating,  causing  dust  to  drop  three  or  four  floors.  An 
effective  housekeeping  practice  is  to  clean  the  mill  or  plant 
at  least  once  a  day.  Many  operations  will  wash  down  all 
floors  and  equipment  to  achieve  this,  although  in  some 
plants  that  do  not  allow  for  the  use  of  water,  vacuum 
cleaning  systems  are  used.  Sweeping  or  blowing  clean  air 
with  compressed  air  should  not  be  used.  Figure  9  shows 
the  increase  in  the  respirable  dust  exposure  to  a  worker 
when  a  co-worker  in  a  mill  was  sweeping  the  floor  one 
level  below  with  a  push  broom.  The  operator's  dust 
exposure  increased  to  nearly  six  times  the  previous 
concentration  because  of  this  dust. 

Plants  or  mills  with  low  dust  concentrations  generally 
had  good  housekeeping  practices.  Most  of  these  opera- 
tions would  wash  down  or  vacuum  the  plant  or  mill  each 
shift.  This  is  not  to  suggest  that  effective  housekeeping 
was  the  sole  reason  for  low  dust  concentrations,  but  to 
emphasize  that  those  operations  who  were  trying  to 
maintain  low  dust  levels  realized  the  importance  of  this 
practice.  Various  types  of  commercial  vacuum  cleaning 
devices  are  available  for  this  purpose.  They  range  from 
high  capacity  remote  vacuum  collectors  (fig.  10)  to  easily 
portable  tank-type  units. 


to 

E 

E 


o 
o 

I- 


-'^t  . 


TIME,  min 

Figure  9.-lncrease  in  worlter's  dust  exposure  from  broom 
sweeping. 


To  dust 
collector 


■^:>^mH^..:::: 


Figure  lO.-IHigh  capacity  remote  vacuum  system. 


PERSONAL  PROTECTION  DEVICES 


Occasionally,  dust  control  with  baghouses  or  scrubbers 
may  not  be  practical,  as  from  various  sources  spread  over 
large  areas.  In  these  cases,  control  at  the  dust  sources  is 
suggested.  Where  this  is  prohibitive  due  to  costs,  space 
limitations,  or  other  reasons,  use  of  the  dust  helmet  or 
other  personal  protection  devices  such  as  respirators  is 
strongly  recommended. 

DUST  HELMETS 

Dust  helmets  have  been  designed  to  provide  dust 
protection  for  the  wearer  without  some  of  the  talking, 
spitting,  and  fit  problems  associated  with  typical  respi- 
rators. They  use  a  small  fan  in  the  hebnet  to  provide 
filtered  air  to  the  breathing  zone  of  the  wearer  (fig.  11). 
The  fan  is  powered  by  a  rechargeable  belt-mounted  battery 
suitable  for  8-h  continuous  operation.  A  high  efficiency 
filter  is  fitted  to  the  fan  discharge,  a  coarse  filter  at  its 
inlet;  both  are  throw-away  types.  The  helmet  is  used  with 
a  full-face  lucite  lens.  Tests  of  the  helmet's  efficiency  on 
various  dusts  and  conditions  generally  show  excellent 
results  and  reasonably  good  acceptance  by  personnel, 
except  when  they  must  work  in  tight  places.  Various  types 
of  side  shields  are  available  to  increase  the  helmet's  dust 
protection  efficiency  as  ambient  ak  velocity  rises.  Bureau 
tests  of  the  helmet  with  two  types  of  side  shields  show  dust 
reductions  greater  than  90  pet  between  ambient  and  inside 
helmet  respirable  concentrations  (11).  Typical  in-plant 
tests  would  show  92  pet  without  a  full-face  side  shield,  and 
98  pet  with. 

The  hebnet  can  be  very  useful  in  extreme  dust 
conditions,  such  as  in  coal  preparation  plcmts  with  high 
respirable  concentrations  or  in  mineral  processing  plzmts 


Main  filter 


Safety  helmet 
shell 


Motor  and 
fan  assembly 


Battery 
pack 


Hinged 
clear 
visor 


Figure  1 1  .-Dust  helmet 


Figure  1 2.-Disposable-type  respirator. 


with  high  siHca  dust  levels.  Primary  disadvantages  are 
glare  from  the  lens,  especially  for  those  who  must  wear 
glasses,  and  the  excessive  bulk  for  tight  work  spaces. 

RESPIRATORS 

Many  types  of  dust  respirators  are  also  commercially 
available  for  this  use.  Dust  protection  efficiency  is  roughly 
dependent  on  cost,  type,  face  fit,  and  ranges  from 
approximately  60  pet  for  simple  throw-away  or  negative- 
pressure  types  (fig.  12),  to  the  upper  90  pet  for  powered 
positive-pressure  types  (fig.  13).  When  respirable  silica 
dust  concentrations  exceed  5  mg/m^,  or  long-term  ex- 
posure is  anticipated,  the  latter  types  should  be  used. 
However,  dust  helmets  and  respirators  only  help  protect 
the  worker  from  usual  dust  and  mist,  they  are  not  to  be 
used  for  harmful  chemical  dusts  or  gasses. 


Figure  13.-Posltive  pressure-type  respirator. 


SPECIAL  PROBLEMS 


PIPE  AND  DUCT  CLOGGING 

Serious  duct  clogging  problems  occur  in  some  of  the 
duct  collector  systems  in  coal  preparation  plants;  dust 
peirticles  graduidly  accumulate  in  the  horizontal  duct  rims 
between  the  pickup  points  and  fan,  and  zdmost  completely 
block  the  airflow.  This  not  only  cripples  the  performance 
of  the  duct  collector  system,  but  also  presents  safety 
problems.  The  added  weight  of  the  dust  can  occasionedly 
break  the  duct  hangers,  allowing  sections  to  drop. 
Clogging  could  occur  as  often  as  every  6  months.  In  these 
cases,  the  prepjiration  plant  operators  would  occasionally 
drop  these  duct  sections  and  flush  with  high-pressure 
water.     The  common  remedy  for  this  problem  is  to 


maintain  an  adequate  duct  ak  velocity  as  indicated  in  the 
American  Conference  of  Government-Industrial  Hygienist 
(ACGIH)  Handbook,  however,  the  duct  air  velocity  in 
some  plants  is  aheady  above  4,000  ft/min.  Conversations 
with  material  handling  experts  show  that  these  problems 
are  not  rare,  even  in  hi^-velocity  systems.  No  simple 
solution  has  been  foimd  to  the  duct  clogging  problem. 
One  possibility  has  been  to  paint  the  duct  interior,  first 
with  an  epoxy  nonlift  primer  followed  by  an  epoxy  topcoat, 
both  with  suitable  catalyst.  Extra  water  sprays  in  the  duct 
sections  that  clog  have  also  been  successful.  In  some 
cases,  a  dropout  box  or  inertial  separator  can  help.  Use 
of  inertial  separators  can  also  help  prevent  scrubber 
clogging.  Inertifd  separators  separate  large  dust  particulate 


10 


from  the  airstream  xising  a  centrifugal,  gravitational,  or 
inertial  force.  The  separate  dust  faiUs  into  a  hopper,  where 
it  is  temporarily  stored.  The  three  primary  types  are 
settling  chambers,  baiffle  chambers,  and  centrifugal 
collectors.  Neither  settling  chambers  nor  baffle  chambers 
are  commonly  used  in  the  minerals  processing  industry, 
mostly  due  to  space  requirements,  and  difficulties  with 
cleaning  and  disposal  of  the  collected  dust. 

Settling  chambers  (fig.  14)  consist  of  a  large  box 
installed  in  the  ductwork.  The  sudden  enlargement  at  the 
chamber  reduces  the  speed  of  the  dust-filled  airstream, 
and  heavier  particles  settle  out.  They  are  simple  in  design 
and  can  be  readily  manufactured. 

Baffle  chambers  (fig.  15)  use  a  fixed  baffle  plate  that 
causes  the  airstreeun  to  make  a  sudden  change  of  direction. 
Large-diameter  particles  do  not  follow  the  gas  stream,  but 
continue  into  a  dead  air  space  and  settle. 

Centrifugal  collectors  (fig.  16)  use  cyclone-type  action 
to  separate  dust  particles  from  the  air.  In  a  typical 
cyclone,  the  high  velocity  dusty  air  enters  at  a  tangent. 
The  centrifugal  force  created  by  the  circular  flow  forces 


Dusty 
air  inlet 


Outlet 


Dust  collection 
hoppers 

SETTLING  CHAMBER 
Figure  14.-Settling  type  drop-out  chamber. 


the  dust  particles  toward  the  wall  of  the  cyclone,  where 
they  fall  into  a  hopper.  These  collectors  are  more 
expensive  and  more  efficient  in  removing  particulate  than 
settling  and  baffle  chambers. 

CONTROL  ROOM  DUST 

Control  room  dust  is  generally  not  a  serious  problem, 
except  when  the  dust  contains  silica.  Sihca  is  not  a 
problem  in  coal  preparation  plant  control  rooms,  but  it  can 
be  a  serious  health  problem  in  many  mineral  processing 
plant  rooms,  especially  because  of  the  long-term,  8-h 
occupjmcy.  Dust  can  Jilso  be  detrimental  to  electrical 
equipment. 

Wall-  or  window-mounted  air  conditioners  admitting 
filtered  outside  air  are  adequate  for  control  in  most  coal 
preparation  plants.  For  mineral  processing  plants,  high 
efficiency  filters  are  strongly  recommended.  Minimum 
makeup  airflows  should  be  above  several  hundred  cubic 
feet  per  minute  even  for  small  rooms  (say  1,000  ft^);  this 
air  should  not  be  recirculated,  but  allowed  to  leak  from  the 
room.  This  will  help  insure  a  positive  pressure  within  the 
room,  and  reduce  dust  infiltration.  Conventional  through- 
the-wall  or  window-type  ziir  conditioners  should  not  be 
used  for  room  pressurization;  their  makeup  (fresh)  airflow 
is  usually  too  low  for  mineral  processing  plants. 


Inner  vortex 


To  hopper 
BAFFLE   CHAMBER 


Outer  vortex 


hopper 
CENTRIFUGAL   TYPE 


Figure  1 5.-Baffle  type  drop-out  chamber. 


Figure  1 6.-Centrifugal  type  drop-out  chamber. 


11 


CONCLUSIONS 


Currently,  about  one-third  of  the  coal  preparation       in  both  cases  are  essentially  indentical  and  depend  on  dust 


plants  in  the  U.S.  have  excessive  respirable  dust  concen- 
trations in  specific  areas.  Results  from  extensive  work  at 
mineral  processing  plants  with  dust  problems  indicate  that 
dust  concentrations  are  lower,  but  frequently  compoimded 
by  sihca  and  full-shift  exposure.    The  primary  solutions 


soiu"ces,  type,  and  concentration.  In  broad  order  of  practi- 
cahty  and  cost-effectiveness,  these  solutions  are  ventilation, 
baghouses,  scrubbers,  good  housekeeping,  and  personal 
protection  devices. 


REFERENCES 


1.  Williams,  K.  L.,  and  R.  J.  Timko.  Performance  Evaluation  of  a 
Real-Time  Aersol  Monitor.   BuMines  IC  8968,  1984,  20  pp. 

2.  Grigal,  D.,  G.  Ufken,  J.  Sandstedt,  M.  Blom,  and  D.  Johnson. 
Development  of  Improved  Scrubbers  for  Coal  Mine  Applications 
(contract  H0199055).  BuMines  OFR  91-83,  July  1982, 124  pp.;  NTIS  PB 
83-205385. 

3.  Divers,  E.  F.,  and  J.  T.  Janosik.  Scrubbers  for  Dust  Control:  A 
Comparison  of  Six  Medium-Energy  Use  Types.  BuMines  RI 8449, 1980, 
29  pp. 

4.  .    Comparison  of  Five  Types  of  Low-Energy  Scrubbers  for 

Dust  Control.    BuMines  RI  8289,  1978,  38  pp. 

5.  McDonald,  J.  J.,  and  A.  H.  Dean.  Electrostatic  Precipitator 
Manual,  Noyes  Data  Corp.,  1982,  480  pp. 

6.  Mody,  v.,  and  R.  Jakhete.  Conveyor  Belt  Dust  Control  (contract 
H0113007,  Martin-Marietta  Lab.).  BuMines  OFR  31-86,  Feb.  1984, 
410  pp. 


7.  Mody,  v.,  and  R.  Jakhete.  Dust  Control  Handbook  for  Minerals 
Processing  (contract  J0235005).  BuMines  OFR  2-88,  Feb.  1987,  220  pp.; 
NTIS  PB-88-159108. 

8.  Volkwein,  J.  C,  A.  B.  Cecala,  and  E.  D.  Thimons.  Moisture 
Application  for  Dust  Control.  Appl.  Ind.  Hyg.,  v.  4,  No.  8,  Aug.  1989, 
pp.  198-200. 

9.  .    Use  of  Foam  for  Dust  Control  in  Minerals  Processing. 

BuMines  RI  8808,  1983,  11  pp. 

10.  Cecala,  A.  B.,  J.  C.  Volkwein,  and  E.  D.  Thimons.  Adding  Steam 
To  Control  Dust  in  Mineral  Processing.   BuMines  RI  8935,  1985,  9  pp. 

11.  Cecala,  A.  B.,  J.  C.  Volkwein,  E.  D.  Thimons,  and  C.  W.  Urban. 
Protection  Factors  of  the  Airstream  Helmet.  BuMines  RI  8591,  1981, 
17  pp. 


INT.BU.OF  MINES,PGH.,PA  29136 


■0 

m 

Si  o 

5   W 

z 

">  ZI 

m  ■ 

> 

5 

o 

■n 
■n 

3" 

C    <B 
©■p. 

■71 

o 

O 

> 

treet 
ton, 

"V 

r- 

0- 

5  «> 

a 

1 

00 

c 

V) 

0 

m 

c 

V) 

z 
m 

S2 

3" 

(D 

V) 

3 

(O 

n 

i 

00 

^ 

® 

0 

5' 

0 

^ 

> 
z 
m 
D 
c 
> 

o 

"D 
TJ 
O 
3) 


m 


O 

-< 
m 
3) 


413-90 


'^o^ 


<  *  ^.^    *  •  •  -    -a 


^      "■•      ^V^  '^    '•-» 


*     A  <^    ♦'TV.-    4 


^•\  «c°^;^^%  /^-^'X  .^<*;^'>-   X'-^i'X   c^  *:^^'>   .^^ 


S°^ 


...i^m^.   ^^^^^^^^  y^^^   t^^^^<i>   ,»^^\  %^^^^' 


4ECKMAN 

"NDERY  INC. 


•  ■  o  ' 


"^   '•-^K*'  ^^^^'\  °''^^^*'  •j.'^^^   ■"• 


'%.n<i^       *^^^     ^r.'^ 

<?5  °^ 


0^         ^^/^TT,.*  ^^^'^       -o^' 


^^      N.  MANCHESTER,  -*        ♦><^*      tV  K'i         'f^V      A.  -A      '^^S^K'^      .'V  ^-.      'X^T*      A*  ^^      "^'^i^J^* 


