area  handbook  series 

Ecuador 

a  country  study 


Ecuador 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division  <. 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Dennis  M.  Hanratty 
Research  Completed 
December  1  989 


On  the  cover:  Inca  gold  sun  pendant 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1991. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Ecuador  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Dennis  M.  Hanratty. — 3rd  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294)  (DA 
pam  ;  550-52) 

"Research  completed  December  1989." 
Rev.  ed.  of:  Area  handbook  for  Ecuador  /  co-authors, 
Thomas  E.  Weil  .  .  .  [et  al.].  1973. 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  265-282)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0730-5 

1.  Ecuador.    I.  Hanratty,  Dennis  Michael,  1950-  . 
II.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.    III.  Area 
handbook  for  Ecuador.    IV.  Series.    V.  Series:  DA  pam  ; 


550-52. 
F3708.E383 
986.6— dc20 


1991 


91-9494 
CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 


DA  Pam  550-52 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


in 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  Thomas  E. 
Weil,  Jan  Knippers  Black,  Howard  I.  Blutstein,  David  S.  McMorris, 
Mildred  Gill  Mersereau,  Frederick  P.  Munson,  and  Kathryn  E. 
Parachini,  who  wrote  the  1973  edition  of  the  Area  Handbook  for  Ec- 
uador. Portions  of  their  work  were  incorporated  into  the  present 
volume. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  agencies  of 
the  United  States  government  and  private  institutions  who  gave 
their  time,  research  materials,  and  special  knowledge  to  provide 
information  and  perspective.  These  individuals  include  Ralph  K. 
Benesch,  who  oversees  the  area  handbook  program  for  the  Depart- 
ment of  the  Army.  None  of  these  individuals  is  in  any  way  respon- 
sible for  the  work  of  the  authors,  however. 

The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  those  who  contributed  directly 
to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  include  Sandra  W. 
Meditz,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  Ruth  Nieland,  who  edited  the  chapters;  Martha  E. 
Hopkins  and  Marilyn  Majeska,  who  managed  editing  and  produc- 
tion; and  Barbara  Edgerton,  Janie  L.  Gilchrist,  and  Izella  Watson, 
who  did  the  word  processing.  Cissie  Coy  performed  the  final  pre- 
publication  editorial  review,  and  Joan  C.  Cook  compiled  the  in- 
dex. Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the  Library  of  Congress  Printing  and 
Processing  Section  performed  phototypesetting,  under  the  super- 
vision of  Peggy  Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto,  who  was  assisted  by  Sandra  K.  Ferrell  and 
Wayne  Home,  provided  invaluable  graphics  support.  Harriet  R. 
Blood,  David  P.  Cabitto,  and  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara  prepared 
the  maps.  David  P.  Cabitto  also  deserves  special  thanks  for  design- 
ing the  illustrations  for  the  book's  cover  and  the  title  page  of  each 
chapter. 

The  authors  also  would  like  to  thank  several  individuals  who 
provided  research  support.  Arvies  J.  Staton  supplied  information 
on  military  ranks  and  insignia,  and  Karen  M.  Sturges-Vera  wrote 
the  section  on  geography  in  chapter  2. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  individuals 
and  the  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photographs 
to  be  used  in  this  study.  We  are  indebted  especially  to  those  who 
contributed  original  work  not  previously  published. 


Contents 


Page 


Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments    v 

Preface      xi 

Country  Profile     xiii 

Introduction     xxi 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

James  D.  Rudolph 

PRE-HISPANIC  ERA    4 

DISCOVERY  AND  CONQUEST    7 

SPANISH  COLONIAL  ERA   11 

THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  INDEPENDENCE    16 

THE  FIRST  CENTURY  OF  THE  REPUBLIC    19 

Initial  Confusion,  1830-60    19 

The  Era  of  Conservatism,  1860-95    22 

The  Rule  of  the  Liberals,  1895-1925    25 

Reform,  Chaos,  and  Debacle,  1925-44    28 

THE  POSTWAR  ERA,  1944-84    31 

Constitutional  Rule,  1948-60    33 

Instability  and  Military  Dominance,  1960-72    35 

Direct  Military  Rule,  1972-79    41 

Return  to  Democratic  Rule,  1979-84    45 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   51 

Patricia  Kluck 

GEOGRAPHY    54 

Natural  Regions    54 

Drainage    58 

Climate    59 

POPULATION    62 

MIGRATION  AND  URBANIZATION    67 

SOCIAL  CLASSES   70 

Elite   70 

Middle  Class    72 

Peasants   73 

Workers   80 


vii 


ETHNIC  GROUPS    83 

Whites  and  Mestizos    84 

Blacks    86 

Sierra  Indians    87 

Oriente  Indians    88 

FAMILY  AND  KIN    90 

RELIGION    93 

SOCIAL  WELFARE   96 

Education   ;  .  .  .  96 

Health  and  Social  Security    97 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    101 

Edmundo  Flores  and  Tim  Merrill 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE 

ECONOMY   104 

RECENT  ECONOMIC  PERFORMANCE    107 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    Ill 

Fiscal  Policies    112  * 

Monetary  and  Exchange  Rate  Policies    115 

Government  Budget  Process    117 

HUMAN  RESOURCES  AND  INCOME    118 

Composition  of  Labor  Force    118 

Employment  Indicators  and  Benefits   118 

Organized  Labor   119 

AGRICULTURE    120 

Land  Use  and  Tenure   120 

Crops   123 

Livestock  and  Poultry    128 

Fishing    129 

Forestry   130 

NATURAL  RESOURCES  AND  ENERGY    130 

Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas   130 

Mining  and  Minerals    133 

Electric  Power    133 

MANUFACTURING    134 

SERVICES    136 

Financial  System    137 

Tourism   139 

Communications    139 

Transportation   142 

EXTERNAL  SECTOR   145 

External  Debt    145 

Trade  and  Balance  of  Payments    148 


viii 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   153 

Rex  A.  Hudson 

CONSTITUTIONAL  BACKGROUND    156 

GOVERNMENTAL  STRUCTURE    161 

The  Executive    162 

The  Legislature    166 

The  Judiciary    170 

Public  Administration    173 

Local  Government   174 

The  Electoral  Process    175 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    177 

Political  Parties    177 

Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups    188 

The  Media    195 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    197 

The  United  States    198 

Other  Nations  and  International  Organizations    200 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    205 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

MILITARY  HERITAGE    208 

STRATEGIC  PERSPECTIVE    210 

INVOLVEMENT  IN  POLITICS  AND  GOVERNMENT   ...  212 

ARMED  FORCES    214 

Army   217 

Navy   220 

Air  Force   223 

Military  Justice    225 

Ranks,  Insignia,  and  Uniforms    226 

RECRUITMENT  AND  CONDITIONS  OF  SERVICE    226 

DEFENSE  BUDGET   230 

CIVIL  DEFENSE    232 

CIVIC  ACTION   233 

FOREIGN  INFLUENCE    233 

Military  Relations  with  the  United  States    234 

Equipment  Sources    236 

INTERNAL  SECURITY    237 

Police   239 

The  Administration  of  Justice    244 

The  Penal  System    246 

Appendix.  Tables   249 

Bibliography    265 

Glossary    283 


IX 


Index    285 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ecuador,  1989    xx 

2  Territory  Disputed  by  Ecuador  and  Peru   32 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    56 

4  Projected  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1990    62 

5  Selected  Demographic  Indicators,  at  Five- Year 

Intervals,  1950-2000   63 

6  Life  Expectancy  at  Birth,  by  Five- Year 

Intervals,  1950-2000    64 

7  Total  Fertility  Rate,  at  Five-Year  Intervals,  1950-2000    65 

8  Population  Distribution  by  Region,  Census  Years, 

1950-82    66 

9  Population  Density,  1986    68 

10  Percentage  of  School- Aged  Population  Enrolled  in 

School,  Divided  by  Urban-Rural  Residence,  1982    98 

11  Petroleum  and  Mineral  Resources,  1988    106 

12  Rise  in  Consumer  Prices,  1980-89    108 

13  Real  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  Growth  Rate, 

1980-89    109 

14  Foreign  Debt,  1975-89    114 

15  Transportation  System,  1989    144 

16  Organization  of  the  Ecuadorian  Government,  1989    164 

17  Organization  of  National  Security,  1989    216 

18  Major  Military  Installations  and  Deployments,  1989    218 

19  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1989    228 

20  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1989    229 

21  Organization  of  the  National  Police,  1988    241 


x 


Preface 


Like  the  1973  Area  Handbook  for  Ecuador,  this  study  is  an  attempt 
to  treat  in  a  compact  and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social, 
political,  economic,  and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  Ecua- 
dor. Sources  of  information  included  scholarly  books,  journals,  and 
monographs;  official  reports  of  governments  and  international  or- 
ganizations; numerous  periodicals;  and  interviews  with  individ- 
uals having  special  competence  in  Ecuadorian  and  Latin  American 
affairs.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief 
comments  on  sources  recommended  for  further  reading  appear  at 
the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  sys- 
tem; a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  readers  unfamiliar  with 
metric  measurements  (see  table  1,  Appendix).  A  glossary  is  also  in- 
cluded. 

Although  there  are  numerous  variations,  Spanish  surnames 
generally  consist  of  two  parts:  the  patronymic  name  followed  by 
the  matronymic.  In  the  instance  of  Rodrigo  Borja  Cevallos,  for 
example,  Borja  is  his  father's  name,  Cevallos,  his  mother's  maiden 
name.  In  informal  use,  the  matronymic  is  often  dropped.  Thus, 
after  the  first  mention,  we  have  usually  referred  simply  to  Borja. 
A  minority  of  individuals  use  only  the  patronymic.  For  purposes 
of  clarity,  some  individuals  with  common  patronymics,  such  as 
Gabriel  Garcia  Moreno,  are  referred  to  with  both  patronymics  and 
matronymics.  Special  rules  govern  discussion  of  Galo  Plaza  Lasso, 
who  is  referred  to  by  Ecuadorian  historians  and  throughout  this 
book  as  Galo  Plaza  to  differentiate  him  from  his  father,  Leonidas 
Plaza  Gutierrez. 


xi 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Ecuador  (Republica  del  Ecuador). 

Short  Form:  Ecuador. 

Term  for  Citizens:  Ecuadorian(s). 

Capital:  Quito. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  280,000  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Divided  into  three  continental  regions — the  Costa, 
Sierra,  and  Oriente — and  one  insular  region — the  Galapagos  Is- 
lands. Costa,  located  between  Pacific  Ocean  and  Andes  Mountains, 


xui 


consists  of  coastal  lowlands  and  mountains.  Sierra  composed  of  two 
major  chains  of  Andes  Mountains — Cordillera  Occidental  (Western 
Chain)  and  Cordillera  Oriental  (Eastern  Chain) — and  intermontane 
basin  or  plateau  between  the  two  chains.  Cordillera  Occidental  con- 
tains Ecuador's  highest  peak,  6,267-meter  Mount  Chimborazo. 
Oriente  consists  of  Andean  piedmont  and  eastern  lowlands.  Gala- 
pagos are  islands  of  varied  size  located  1,000  kilometers  west  of 
Ecuadorian  coast. 

Climate:  Tropical  climate  throughout  Costa,  although  variations 
in  temperature  and  rainfall  result  from  proximity  to  warm  or  cool 
ocean  currents.  Sierra  climate  ranges  from  tropical  to  frozen,  de- 
pending on  altitude;  notable  rainfall  variations  also  occur.  Tropi- 
cal climate  and  abundant  rainfall  prevail  in  Oriente.  Galapagos 
climate  varies  from  tropical  and  desert-like  at  sea  level  to  cold  and 
wet  at  highest  point. 

Society 

Population:  Estimates  of  total  population  in  1989  ranged  from  10.8 
to  11  million;  annual  growth  rate  estimated  at  2.3  to  2.8  percent. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Indians  and  mestizos,  40  percent  each;  whites, 
10  to  15  percent;  blacks,  5  percent. 

Languages:  Spanish  (official)  and  Quichua  (a  Quechua  dialect). 

Religion:  Approximately  94  percent  Roman  Catholic.  Beginning 
in  late  1960s,  significant  gains  made  by  Protestant  evangelical  and 
Pentecostal  churches. 

Education  and  Literacy:  School  attendance  theoretically  compul- 
sory for  children  between  ages  six  and  fourteen.  Primary  and  sec- 
ondary schools  each  offered  six-year  programs.  Higher  education 
consisted  of  twelve  state  and  five  private  universities  as  well  as  var- 
ious polytechnic  schools  and  teachers'  colleges.  Estimated  85  per- 
cent literacy  rate  in  mid-1980s. 

Health:  Infant  mortality  rate  estimates  in  early  1980s  ranged  from 
70  to  76  per  1,000  live  births;  the  infant  mortality  rate  was  ap- 
proximately 63  per  1 ,000  live  births  in  1985.  Infant  mortality  varied 
significantly  by  region  and  socioeconomic  status.  Life  expectancy 
at  birth  in  mid-1980s  sixty-four  years.  Ministry  of  Public  Health 
operated  four- tiered  system  of  health  care,  but  lack  of  trained  profes- 
sionals hampered  public  health  care.  Maternal  mortality  remained 
high,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Some  tropical  diseases,  including 
malaria,  continued  to  be  of  concern  to  health  officials. 


xiv 


Economy 


Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$9.4  billion  in  1989,  or 
US$940  per  capita.  Substantial  economic  growth  in  1970s  follow- 
ing discovery  of  new  petroleum  fields  in  Oriente  and  international 
price  increases  for  petroleum.  Increased  external  debt,  lowered 
petroleum  prices,  devastation  from  floods  and  earthquake,  and  eco- 
nomic mismanagement  combined  to  produced  serious  economic 
problems  during  1980s.  GDP  declined  by  5.2  percent  in  1987,  in- 
creased by  8  percent  in  1988,  and  grew  by  only  1  percent  in  1989. 

Agriculture:  Including  livestock  raising,  forestry,  and  fishing, 
almost  18  percent  of  GDP  in  1987.  Sector  employed  about  35  per- 
cent of  nation's  workforce  in  1987. 

Natural  Resources  and  Energy:  Petroleum  and  mining  accounted 
for  8  percent  of  GDP  in  1987.  Nation  had  1.6  million  barrels  of 
proven  oil  reserves,  vast  majority  of  which  found  in  Oriente.  Abun- 
dant natural  gas  reserves  in  Oriente  and  in  Gulf  of  Guayaquil. 

Industry:  About  17  percent  of  GDP  in  1987.  Food  processing  and 
textile  manufacturing  most  important  components  of  industry  sec- 
tor. Nearly  10  percent  of  labor  force  employed  in  industry  in  1987. 
Vast  majority  of  firms  had  fewer  than  five  workers. 

Services:  Accounted  for  nearly  50  percent  of  GDP  and  24  percent 
of  labor  force  in  1987.  Wholesale  and  retail  trade,  financial  ser- 
vices, and  transportation  and  communications  most  important 
segments. 

Imports:  Totalled  almost  US$2.1  billion  in  1987.  Imports  con- 
sisted primarily  of  raw  materials  and  capital  goods  for  industry, 
foods  and  lubricants,  transportation  equipment,  durable  consumer 
goods,  and  non-durable  consumer  goods.  Major  suppliers  of  im- 
ports were  United  States,  Japan,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
(West  Germany),  and  Brazil. 

Exports:  Totalled  US$2.3  billion  in  1989.  Petroleum  generated 
half  of  all  export  revenues;  other  major  exports  included  shrimp, 
bananas,  coffee,  and  cocoa.  Over  60  percent  of  exports  in  1987 
destined  for  United  States. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Chronic  current- account  deficits  during  late 
1980s,  although  deficit  reduced  from  nearly  US$1.2  billion  in  1987 
to  US$500  million  in  1989.  External  debt  reached  US$11.3  bil- 
lion in  1989. 


xv 


Exchange  Rate:  Sucre  (S/)  pegged  to  United  States  dollar  during 
1980s  but  devalued  numerous  times  during  1980s.  Official  rate  aver- 
aged S/526  =  US$1  in  1989. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  Upon  assuming  presidency  in  1988,  Rodrigo  Borja 
Cevallos  (1988-  )  inherited  a  rapidly  deteriorating  economy  charac- 
terized by  growing  fiscal  deficit,  rapid  monetary  expansion,  capi- 
tal flight,  and  excessive  government  spending.  Borja  implemented 
economic  austerity  measures  that  included  sharp  currency  devalu- 
ation, tax  increases,  import  restrictions,  government  spending 
reductions,  and  substantial  increases  in  fuel  prices  and  electricity 
rates. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads:  Approximately  28,000  kilometers  of  roads  in  1989,  of  which 
3,600  paved,  17,400  gravel  and  improved  earth,  and  7,000  dirt 
roads.  Pan  American  Highway  most  heavily  traveled  route.  Few 
all-weather  highways  located  in  Oriente. 

Railroads:  Totalled  965  kilometers  in  1989.  Service  on  principal 
line  between  Quito  and  Guayaquil  only  partially  restored  follow- 
ing floods  in  early  1980s. 

Airports:  One  hundred  seventy-nine  airports,  of  which  forty- three 
had  permanent  surface  runways.  Quito  and  Guayaquil  only  in- 
ternational airports  and  handled  largest  volume  of  air  traffic. 

Ports:  Country's  five  ports  carried  95  percent  of  all  imports  and 
exports  in  late  1980s.  Sixty  percent  of  this  trade  passed  through 
two  Guayaquil  ports.  The  national  merchant  marine  consisted  of 
130  vessels. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Democratic  and  unitary  state  with  republican,  pres- 
idential, elective,  and  representative  government.  Under  1979  Con- 
stitution, chief  executive  is  president  of  republic,  elected  to  four-year 
term  by  majority  popular  vote.  Reelection  of  incumbent  not  per- 
mitted. President's  varied  executive  duties  include  enforcement  of 
Constitution;  approval  of  laws;  maintenance  of  domestic  order  and 
national  security;  determination  of  foreign  policy;  and  assumption 
of  emergency  powers  during  times  of  crisis.  Principle  of  "legisla- 
tive coparticipation"  also  allows  president  to  share  in  formation  of 
laws  as  well  as  in  the  execution  and  application  of  laws.  Unicameral 


xvi 


National  Congress  enacts  legislation;  reforms  and  interprets  Con- 
stitution; establishes  revenues;  approves  public  treaties;  appoints 
high-level  government  officials  from  lists  submitted  by  president; 
and  reviews  executive  branch  budget.  Judiciary  is  responsible  for 
technical  matters. 

Politics:  Political  parties  suffered  from  factionalism  and  weak  or- 
ganization; were  often  overshadowed  by  personalist  movements. 
Persistent  regional  rivalries  between  Quito  and  Guayaquil  also  con- 
tributed to  contentious  political  debates.  In  May  1988,  Borja,  leader 
of  Social  Democratic  party,  the  center-left  Democratic  Left  (Iz- 
quierda  Democratica-ID),  defeated  Abdala  Bucaram  Ortiz  of 
populist  Ecuadorian  Roldosist  Party  (Partido  Roldosista  Ecua- 
toriano-PRE)  in  second  round  of  presidential  elections  and  assumed 
presidency  in  August  1988,  succeeding  longtime  rival  and  conser- 
vative-turned-populist Leon  Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra  (1984- 
88). 

International  Relations:  Borja  administration  maintained  good 
relations  with  United  States.  In  contrast  to  Febres  Cordero  adminis- 
tration, also  pursued  more  active  relations  with  Third  World,  multi- 
lateral organizations,  Western  Europe,  and  socialist  countries. 
Protracted  border  dispute  with  Peru  strained  relations  between  the 
two  countries. 

International  Agreements  and  Membership:  Party  to  Inter- 
American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assistance  of  1947  (Rio  Treaty). 
Member  of  numerous  regional  and  international  organizations,  in- 
cluding Organization  of  American  States,  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies,  International  Monetary  Fund,  World  Bank, 
Inter-American  Development  Bank,  Andean  Pact,  Latin  Ameri- 
can Economic  System,  Latin  American  Energy  Organization,  Latin 
American  Integration  Association,  Nonaligned  Movement,  and  Or- 
ganization of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Included  army,  navy,  and  air  force  with  total 
strength  estimated  at  49,000  in  1988.  Country  divided  into  four 
army  theaters  of  operation  (defense  zones),  three  naval  zones,  and 
two  air  zones.  Army  operational  zones  consisted  of  five  infantry 
brigades,  two  jungle  brigades,  one  special  forces  brigade,  and  ar- 
mored, logistics,  engineering,  and  army  aviation  commands.  Navy 
organized  into  destroyer  division;  fast-missile  craft,  corvette,  and 
submarine  squadrons;  auxiliary  vessels  and  transports;  a  naval  avi- 
ation unit;  coast  guard;  and  marines.  Air  Force  operations  consisted 


xvn 


of  fighter  and  fighter-ground  attack  squadrons;  light  attack  squad- 
ron; and  air  defense  group. 

Equipment:  Major  ground  forces  armaments  included  French- 
origin  light  tanks,  four-wheeled  reconnaissance  vehicles,  and  ar- 
mored personnel  carriers;  Brazilian  armored  cars  and  wheeled  per- 
sonnel carriers;  and  tracked  personnel  carriers  from  the  United 
States.  Naval  equipment  included  West  German  missile  attack  craft 
and  two  small  submarines;  Italian  corvettes  equipped  with  Exocet 
missiles;  and  one  Gearing-class  destroyer  from  United  States.  Air 
Force  equipment  included  British  Jaguars;  United  States  Cessnas; 
and  Israeli  Kfirs. 

Police:  Subordinate  to  Ministry  of  Government  and  Justice.  Es- 
timated 18,000  members  organized  into  technical  operations  and 
support  directorates  and  four  operational  units. 


xvin 


Pacific 
Ocean 


ESMERALDAS 


f  S  COLOMBIA 

!  X 


'  - — ;  Tutc&n 
CARCHlV 


International  boundary 
Provincial  boundary 
National  capital 
Provincial  capital 


100  Kilometers 


,  .  "^JMBABURA® 

(  Quito 


7 


Nueva  Loja  <§r* 


y  PICHINCHA 

MANABI    (  <~   ^  / 

/COTOPAXI^ 

®Portoviejq/J-  \i_atacunga  \ 


SUCUMBiOS 

\ 


D 


iTena 


\ 


y      LQS  :  I  ^mf3a}^  .  r 

j     /  RIOSy     >ungurahIja  _ 

'  Guaranda  P"*  -  ~\  /  \®u>'0 

J  fiaLoyo    \   £'  •g*faffl 

GUAYAS     "v}/.  &■( 
Guayaquil  q  jf  & 

\    CANAR  k 

gd/cf^^^f  f  -Azogueg^ 
Quoyoquit    1^ /      ■  £~  \ 

pu^^o  L/  AZuAYCu;"ca 

Machatad)      J  • 


NAPO 
PASTAZA 


/ 


MORONA- 
SANTIAGO 


\ 


PERU 


GALAPAGOS  ISLANDS 

0     so    100  KBottteters 


ELORO 


ROV      \     -  1 

—J  r.  v.  J 


?M  ^  Zamora/ 

L  LOJA        1   \  7 

gci/mtery repr&$miaticm  '—v.-' 
m?jf  necessarily  authoritative 


I  tsabeta  lsiand_ 

\~Fernandinj} 
I      IsiandZj ' 


Steele 

(^San  Salvador  tstand 
°  f-s&anta  Cruz  island 

°       o     ^  Sarj  J 
p^foGCristobal 
Baquerizo  f^fand 


Santa  Maria  island^  Moreno 
92 


89 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ecuador,  1989 


xx 


Introduction 


AS  THE  1990s  began,  deep-rooted  sociological,  geographical,  eco- 
nomic, and  political  features  continued  to  define  Ecuador.  Despite 
such  post-World  War  II  developments  as  widespread  migration, 
the  growth  of  import-substitution  (see  Glossary)  industrialization, 
and  the  emergence  of  an  urban  middle  class,  Ecuador  remained 
strongly  influenced  by  its  history.  Four  key  themes  dominated  the 
historical  landscape  and  remained  essential  to  an  understanding 
of  contemporary  Ecuador.  First,  the  nation  had  a  highly  skewed 
social  structure  that  could  be  traced  to  its  colonial  past.  Second, 
persistent  regional  rivalries  often  determined  the  outcome  of  key 
national  issues.  Third,  the  economy  continued  to  be  subject  to  the 
fortunes  of  a  single  commodity.  Finally,  the  political  system  lacked 
strong,  stable  institutions. 

Spanish  social  structures  and  values  took  hold  most  completely 
in  the  sixteenth  century  in  the  Sierra  (Andean  highlands).  Not  coin- 
cidentally,  the  Sierra  was  also  that  Ecuadorian  region  where  the 
Inca  conquerors  had  been  most  successful  fifty  years  earlier.  Spanish 
officials  adapted  the  prevailing  Inca  hierarchical  social  system  and 
established  a  tripartite,  semifeudal  structure  consisting  of  small 
numbers  of  white  elites,  (both  peninsulares — Spanish-born  persons 
residing  in  the  New  World — and  criollos — persons  of  pure  Spanish 
descent  born  in  the  New  World),  a  somewhat  larger  group  of 
mestizo  artisans,  and  a  large  Indian  underclass.  Since  Ecuador 
lacked  the  mineral  riches  found  in  other  Spanish  colonies,  such  as 
Peru  and  Mexico,  land  became  the  critical  commodity.  Through 
the  encomienda  system,  elites  received  tracts  of  Sierra  land  along  with 
the  right  to  extract  labor  from  Indians  living  on  that  land.  Colonists 
also  adapted  the  Inca  concept  of  obligatory  public  service  (mita) 
and  required  Indians  to  toil  in  textile  sweatshops  scattered  through 
the  highlands.  Debts  incurred  through  the  Spanish  mita  often  trans- 
formed what  was  supposed  to  be  a  transitory  labor  obligation  into 
a  peonage  system  passed  across  generations. 

The  successful  struggle  for  independence  in  the  1820s  resulted 
in  the  transfer  of  power  from  peninsulares  to  criollos.  It  did  little, 
however,  to  change  other  aspects  of  the  social  system,  which  by 
then  had  become  dominated  by  haciendas  with  a  resident  Indian 
labor  force.  These  residents,  known  as  huasipungueros,  typically 
worked  the  hacienda  fields  for  four  days  per  week  in  exchange  for 
the  right  to  own  a  small  plot  of  land  (minifundio) . 


xxi 


The  huasipungo  system  survived  in  isolated  pockets  of  the  Sierra 
until  finally  being  abolished  by  the  1964  Agrarian  Reform  Law. 
This  law  and  a  successor  measure  in  1973,  however,  did  not  affect 
the  basic  distribution  of  landowner  ship,  which  remained  highly  in- 
equitable. In  the  1980s,  only  5  percent  of  all  farms  exceeded  fifty 
hectares,  yet  these  same  farms  represented  over  55  percent  of  land 
under  cultivation.  By  contrast,  80  percent  of  all  farms  encompassed 
fewer  than  ten  hectares  and  accounted  for  only  1 5  percent  of  farm- 
land. 

Until  the  1970s,  landless  Sierra  peasants  in  search  of  work  typi- 
cally migrated  to  the  Costa  (coastal  region).  At  independence,  the 
Costa  contained  less  than  20  percent  of  the  national  population. 
Nonetheless,  it  represented  the  most  dynamic  force  in  Ecuador's 
economy.  This  dynamism  was  centered  in  the  port  city  of  Guaya- 
quil, which  had  established  itself  during  the  colonial  period  as  an 
important  shipbuilding  and  trade  center. 

An  intense  rivalry  between  Guayaquil  and  Quito — the  national 
capital  and  most  important  Sierra  city — dominated  nineteenth- 
century  Ecuadorian  politics.  By  the  1850s,  a  clear  dichotomy  had 
emerged  between  the  Catholic,  conservative  Sierra  and  the  anti- 
clerical, liberal  Costa,  with  regional  leadership  in  the  hands  of 
Gabriel  Garcia  Moreno  and  Jose  Maria  Urbina,  respectively. 
Garcia  Moreno  played  a  critical  role  in  the  late  1850s  and  early 
1860s  in  pulling  Ecuador  back  from  the  brink  of  permanent  disso- 
lution. However,  during  a  rule  that  lasted  until  his  assassination 
in  1875,  Garcia  Moreno  polarized  the  religious  issue  through  the 
enactment  of  legislation  granting  broad  powers  to  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  Following  a  twenty-year  transitional  period,  Jose 
Eloy  Alfaro  Delgado  seized  power  on  behalf  of  Guayaquil  Liberals 
and  established  a  permanent  separation  of  church  and  state. 

The  removal  of  the  religious  issue  from  the  national  agenda  did 
little  to  alter  regional  tensions.  Costa  elites  long  resented  what  they 
perceived  to  be  a  transfer  of  their  wealth  to  the  less  industrious 
Sierra.  In  addition,  economic  stagnation  in  the  Sierra  and  dyna- 
mism in  the  Costa  combined  to  produce  a  massive  population  shift 
in  the  twentieth  century.  By  the  early  1980s,  the  population  of 
Guayaquil  easily  outdistanced  that  of  Quito.  Despite  the  presence 
of  large  squatter  communities  in  both  cities,  regional  rather  than 
class  identification  remained  the  most  important  determinant  of 
voting  behavior.  For  example,  a  majority  of  Costa  voters  supported 
the  second-round  presidential  candidates  from  their  region  in  both 
the  1984  and  1988  elections,  even  though  the  political  ideologies 
of  these  candidates  varied  widely. 


xxii 


On  three  separate  occasions  over  the  last  hundred  years,  a  sin- 
gle export  product  offered  the  prospect  of  a  solid  financial  future. 
In  each  case,  however,  Ecuadorian  hopes  were  dashed  by  a  cruel 
dose  of  fiscal  reality.  Ideal  growing  conditions  north  of  Guayaquil 
and  the  latter' s  excellent  port  facilities  enabled  Ecuador  by  1900 
to  become  the  world's  leading  exporter  of  cocoa.  Customs  duties 
from  cocoa  exports  filled  government  coffers.  The  cocoa  boom  also 
had  an  important  sociological  impact  as  Costa  growers  sought  to 
attract  Sierra  peasants  through  sharecropping  and  wage-labor  ar- 
rangements. By  the  mid- 1920s,  however,  crop  disease  and  com- 
petition from  other  producing  nations  had  devastated  Ecuadorian 
cocoa  production.  Lowered  world  demand  resulting  from  the  Great 
Depression  dealt  a  further  crushing  blow  to  Ecuador's  export  ef- 
fort. From  1928  to  1932,  the  total  value  of  Ecuadorian  exports 
declined  by  two-thirds. 

Following  World  War  II,  Ecuador  had  a  second  commodity 
bonanza,  this  time  in  the  form  of  bananas.  Taking  advantage  of 
crop  diseases  in  Central  America  and  the  unleashing  of  pent-up 
demands  in  the  United  States  after  the  war,  the  value  of  Ecuador's 
banana  exports  grew  tenfold  from  1948  to  1952.  Once  again,  cus- 
toms duties  allowed  ambitious  public  works  spending.  As  was  the 
case  with  cocoa,  bananas  were  grown  in  the  Costa.  Besides  stimulat- 
ing the  regional  economy,  the  banana  boom  set  off  another  migra- 
tion wave  from*  the  Sierra.  By  the  mid-1960s,  however,  Ecuador 
experienced  a  substantial  drop  in  the  volume  and  value  of  banana 
exports.  Economic  stagnation  once  more  became  the  order  of  the 
day. 

The  discovery  in  1967  of  vast  amounts  of  petroleum  in  the  sparsely 
populated  Oriente  (eastern  region)  created  conditions  for  a  third  eco- 
nomic boom.  Five  years  later,  petroleum  began  flowing  through  the 
503-kilometer  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline,  bound  for  foreign  indus- 
trialized markets.  Largely  as  a  result  of  petroleum  exports,  Ecuador's 
foreign  exchange  earnings  climbed  eightfold  between  1971  and  1974. 

Several  noteworthy  features  distinguished  the  petroleum  boom 
from  the  earlier  cocoa  and  banana  booms.  First  of  all,  the  locus 
of  economic  activity  occurred  outside  of  the  Costa.  Nevertheless, 
although  the  Oriente  was  the  actual  source  of  the  petroleum  wealth 
and  received  important  infrastructural  development,  the  bulk  of 
the  revenues  flowed  directly  to  the  national  treasury  in  Quito.  The 
government  used  these  revenues  to  finance  an  unprecedented  level 
of  public  spending,  creating  numerous  state  enterprises  and  ex- 
panding the  scope  and  activities  of  previously  established  national 
agencies.  Government  funding  also  supported  industrial  growth 


xxm 


in  Quito.  Finally,  industrialization  and  public- sector  expansion 
allowed  for  the  emergence  of  an  urban  middle  class. 

Unfortunately,  petroleum  proved  to  be  as  illusive  a  treasure  as 
the  earlier  golden  commodities.  In  the  first  half  of  the  1970s,  the 
income  from  petroleum  made  possible  the  purchase  of  a  wide  range 
of  imports.  When  revenues  stagnated  around  1975,  the  military 
government  that  had  assumed  power  three  years  earlier  resorted 
to  massive  foreign  borrowing.  Between  1976  and  1979,  Ecuador's 
foreign  debt  increased  by  over  400  percent.  Although  the  civilian 
administrations  that  came  to  power  in  1979  succeeded  in  slowing 
the  debt  growth  rate,  it  still  had  doubled  by  X986  and  totalled  nearly 
US$9  billion. 

Ecuador  was  unprepared  for  the  economic  calamities  that  befell 
it  in  the  1980s.  During  that  decade,  Ecuador  experienced  two  sharp 
drops  in  the  market  price  for  petroleum,  a  global  recession,  a  dra- 
matic increase  in  international  interest  rates,  widespread  crop 
damage  resulting  from  flooding,  and  an  earthquake  that  severed 
the  oil  pipeline  for  five  months  and  cost  the  nation  US$700  mil- 
lion in  lost  revenues.  In  order  to  qualify  for  additional  loans  and 
renegotiation  of  scheduled  interest  payments,  Ecuadorian  govern- 
ments adopted  various  austerity  packages  that  included  reductions 
in  public  expenditures,  currency  devaluations,  and  increases  in  in- 
terest rates.  Although  necessary,  these  measures  increased  unem- 
ployment and  underemployment  nationwide. 

Stronger  political  institutions  might  have  enabled  Ecuador  to 
weather  its  varied  economic  storms.  Unfortunately,  national  po- 
litical structures  historically  exacerbated  rather  than  ameliorated 
the  fiscal  picture.  Except  for  a  brief  period  during  the  1880s  and 
early  1890s,  nineteenth-century  Ecuadorian  governments  were 
authoritarian  rather  than  democratic.  Most  of  the  heads  of  those 
governments  were  forcibly  removed  from  office.  Although  the 
Liberal  Party  held  power  from  1895  to  1925,  those  years  were  hardly 
a  model  of  stability.  For  the  first  half  of  that  period,  Alfaro  and 
Leonidas  Plaza  Gutierrez  waged  a  bitter  rivalry  that  only  ended 
when  the  former  unsuccessfully  staged  a  coup  and  was  murdered 
by  a  government-sponsored  mob.  In  the  second  half,  liberal  poli- 
ticians surrendered  key  financial  decisions  to  Guayaquil  banking 
interests.  The  printing  of  national  currency  by  private  banks  gener- 
ated runaway  inflation  and  contributed  heavily  to  the  economic 
chaos  of  the  late  1920s. 

On  three  occasions  in  the  twentieth  century — 1925,  1963,  and 
1972 — the  military  seized  direct  political  control.  In  each  case,  it 
was  unsuccessful  in  carrying  out  espoused  socioeconomic  reforms. 
The  last  period  of  military  rule — 1972  to  1979 — was  both  the  most 


xxiv 


ambitious  and  disappointing  of  the  three.  Although  one  of  the  moti- 
vations for  intervention  was  to  prevent  civilian  politicians  from  dis- 
sipating the  new-found  petroleum  wealth,  the  military's  principal 
legacy  was  that  of  ever-increasing  foreign  debt  obligations. 

The  1979  Constitution  is  the  seventeenth  such  document  since 
independence  in  1830.  It  is  both  an  impressive  and  hopeful  sign 
that  as  of  the  early  1990s  Ecuador  had  had  democratically  elected 
governments  since  the  inception  of  this  Constitution  and  two  non- 
violent transfers  of  power.  Nonetheless,  the  maturation  of  Ecuador's 
political  institutions  remained  open  to  debate.  Ecuador  had  a  stag- 
gering number  of  political  parties,  most  of  which  had  rather  shal- 
low roots  and  were  often  little  more  than  electoral  labels  for  their 
leaders.  Party  identification  and  ideology  remained  weak,  whereas 
personalism  remained  strong. 

Perhaps  most  disturbing  was  the  deteriorating  level  of  political 
discourse.  This  was  particularly  true  during  the  presidency  of  Leon 
Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra  (1984-88).  Febres  Cordero's  disdain 
for  the  give  and  take  of  the  democratic  process  led  to  his  adoption 
of  an  authoritarian  style  that  resulted  in  acrimonious  debates  with 
the  National  Congress  and  threats  of  impeachment.  In  an  incident 
that  both  typified  the  tumultuous  years  of  the  Febres  Cordero  ad- 
ministration and  painfully  exposed  the  potential  threats  to  the 
democratic  process,  paratroop  commandos  kidnapped  the  presi- 
dent in  1987  and  forced  him  to  honor  a  congressional  amnesty  previ- 
ously granted  to  Lieutenant  General  Frank  Vargas  Pazzos.  Febres 
Cordero  had  dismissed  Vargas  as  armed  forces  chief  of  staff  after 
the  latter  had  accused  both  the  defense  minister  and  an  army  com- 
mander of  corruption.  Following  his  dismissal,  Vargas  attempted 
two  unsuccessful  revolts  against  the  government.  In  the  bewilder- 
ing interplay  of  Ecuadorian  politics,  Vargas  ran  for  the  presidency 
in  1988  and  received  over  12  percent  of  the  vote. 

Ecuador  thus  faced  many  challenges  in  the  years  ahead.  Observ- 
ers believed  that  it  needed  to  design  social  structures  that  would 
allow  a  more  equitable  distribution  of  income  and  opportunities. 
It  also  needed  to  identify  creative  strategies  of  economic  growth. 
Most  important,  Ecuador  required  strong,  democratic  political 
leadership. 


August  1,  1991  Dennis  M.  Hanratty 


xxv 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Winged  god  cast  in  gold  and  platinum  (La  Tolita  culture) 


THROUGHOUT  ITS  HISTORY,  Ecuador  has  displayed  a  con- 
tinuity in  traditional  cultural  and  economic  patterns  as  well  as  in 
social  and  political  interaction  among  the  country's  highly  heter- 
ogeneous social  groupings.  Modern  patterns  overlay  the  traditional, 
making  present-day  Ecuador  a  veritable  living  museum  of  its  varied, 
rich  heritage.  Pre-Columbian  Ecuador  is  reflected  in  the  persis- 
tence of  native  languages,  customs,  and  economic  activities  among 
a  considerable,  though  diminishing,  number  of  communities  in  the 
Sierra  (Andean  highlands)  and  the  Oriente  (eastern  region).  The 
legacy  of  three  centuries  of  Spanish  colonial  rule  is  also  pervasive 
and  includes  a  social  inequality  that  largely  coincides  with  race, 
rural  land  tenure  patterns,  and  the  nation's  dominant  European 
cultural  expressions. 

Analysts  of  Ecuador's  postindependence  political  history  have 
pointed  to  a  number  of  persistent  ingredients.  Regionalism  is  es- 
pecially prominent,  particularly  as  expressed  in  the  struggle  for 
power  between  the  Sierra,  represented  by  Quito,  and  the  Costa 
(coastal  region),  represented  by  Guayaquil.  Regionalism  has  coin- 
cided with  the  party  struggle  between  the  Quito-based  Conserva- 
tives and  the  Guayaquil-based  Liberals.  Personalism,  from  the 
political  prominence  of  military  caudillos  in  the  early  years  of  the 
republic  to  the  civilian  dictators  and  the  populists  of  more  recent 
times,  has  been  another  persistent  theme  since  independence. 

Perhaps  the  most  consistent  element  of  Ecuador's  republican  his- 
tory has  been  its  political  instability.  In  just  over  a  century  and 
a  half,  there  have  been  no  fewer  than  eighty- six  changes  of  govern- 
ment, making  for  an  average  of  1.75  years  in  power  for  each  re- 
gime. The  1979  Constitution  is  Ecuador's  seventeenth  national 
charter.  Ecuador's  political  instability  is  a  product  of  the  struggles 
mentioned  above  combined  with  the  important  political  role  main- 
tained by  the  nation's  armed  forces.  The  longest  periods  of  civilian, 
constitutional  rule  were  between  1912  and  1925  and  again  between 
1948  and  1961.  Governmental  institutions,  as  a  result,  have  had 
little  opportunity  to  mature  into  established  expressions  of  civilian, 
democratic  rule. 

Ecuadorian  economic  history  has  displayed  marked  cycles  of 
"boom"  and  "bust"  based  on  the  rise  and  fall  of  particular  ex- 
port products.  The  longest-lasting  "boom,"  between  the  last  years 
of  the  nineteenth  century  and  the  early  1920s,  resulted  from 
Ecuador's  near  monopoly  on  the  production  and  exportation  of 


3 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

cocoa.  An  on- again,  off- again  banana  boom  punctuated  the  de- 
cades of  the  1950s  and  1960s,  whereas  the  oil  boom — the  most 
pronounced  as  well  as  the  shortest  of  all  the  boom  periods — lasted 
from  1972  until  1979.  The  sudden  end  of  the  oil  expansion  coin- 
cided with  the  onset  of  a  foreign  debt  crisis  bred  by  massive  for- 
eign borrowing  by  two  successive  military  governments  (1972-79) 
and  by  Jaime  Roldos  Aguilera's  regime  (1979-81). 

Although  petroleum  revenues  brought  about  significant  social 
change  by  generating  a  sizable  middle  class,  the  widely  anticipated 
political  changes  were  less  apparent.  The  populist  Roldos  and  Con- 
servative Leon  Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra  (1984-88)  represented 
traditional  elements,  although  other  prominent  postboom  person- 
alities, such  as  President  Osvaldo  Hurtado  Larrea  (1981-84),  did 
espouse  more  modern,  center-leftist  ideologies.  Still,  prosperity  from 
petroleum  strengthened  the  state's  traditionally  weak  fiscal  hand 
and  promised  to  tilt  the  regional  balance  of  power  significantly 
toward  the  nation's  capital. 

The  intensity  of  the  political  struggle,  commonly  played  out  be- 
tween the  president  and  Congress  during  periods  of  civilian  rule, 
did  not  seem  to  diminish  after  1979.  Perhaps  the  central  unanswered 
question  of  the  1980s,  however,  was  whether  the  armed  forces  would 
persist  in  their  historically  active  political  role,  or  would  be  con- 
tent to  operate  from  the  sidelines  without  directly  intervening  in 
the  political  process. 

Pre-Hispanic  Era 

Ecuador  offers  little  archeological  evidence  of  its  pre-Hispanic 
civilizations.  Nonetheless,  its  most  ancient  artifacts — remnants  of 
the  Valdivia  culture  found  along  the  coast  north  of  the  modern  city 
of  Santa  Elena  in  Guayas  Province — date  from  as  early  as  3500 
B.C.  (see  fig.  1).  Other  major  coastal  archaeological  sites  are  found 
in  the  provinces  of  Manabi  and  Esmeraldas;  major  sites  in  the  Sierra 
are  found  in  Carchi  and  Imbabura  provinces  in  the  north,  Tun- 
gurahua  and  Chimborazo  provinces  in  the  middle  of  the  Andean 
highlands,  and  Cafiar,  Azuay,  and  Loja  provinces  in  the  south. 
Nearly  all  of  these  sites  are  dated  in  the  last  2,000  years.  Large 
parts  of  Ecuador,  including  almost  all  of  the  Oriente,  however,  re- 
main unknown  territory  to  archaeologists. 

Knowledge  of  Ecuador  before  the  Spanish  conquest  is  limited 
also  by  the  absence  of  recorded  history  within  either  the  Inca  or 
pre-Inca  cultures  as  well  as  by  the  lack  of  interest  taken  in  Ecua- 
dor by  the  Spanish  chroniclers.  Before  the  Inca  conquest  of  the 
area  that  comprises  modern-day  Ecuador,  the  region  was  populated 
by  a  number  of  distinct  tribes  that  spoke  mutually  unintelligible 


4 


Historical  Setting 


languages  and  were  often  at  war  with  one  another.  Four  cultur- 
ally related  Indian  groups,  known  as  the  Esmeralda,  the  Manta, 
the  Huancavilca,  and  the  Puna,  occupied  the  coastal  lowlands  in 
that  order  from  north  to  south.  They  were  hunters,  fishermen, 
agriculturalists,  and  traders.  Trade  was  especially  important  among 
different  coastal  groups,  who  seem  to  have  developed  considerable 
oceanic  travel,  but  the  lowland  cultures  also  traded  with  the  peo- 
ples of  the  Sierra,  exchanging  fish  for  salt. 

The  Sierra  was  populated  by  elements,  from  north  to  south,  of 
the  Pasto,  the  Cara,  the  Panzaleo,  the  Puruha,  the  Canari,  and 
the  Palta  cultures.  These  people  lived  mostly  on  mountainsides  and 
in  widely  dispersed  villages  located  in  the  fertile  valleys  between 
the  Cordillera  Occidental  (Western  Chain)  and  the  Cordillera 
Oriental  (Eastern  Chain)  of  the  Andes.  The  Sierra  natives  were 
a  sedentary,  agricultural  people,  cultivating  corn,  quinoa,  beans, 
and  many  varieties  of  potatoes  and  squashes.  The  use  of  irriga- 
tion was  prevalent,  especially  among  the  Canari.  A  wide  variety 
of  fruits,  including  pineapples  and  avocados,  was  grown  in  the 
lower,  warmer  valleys.  Historians  believe  that  political  organiza- 
tion centered  around  local  chieftains  who  collaborated  with  one 
another  in  confederations  or  were  subjected  to  "kings."  Such  local 
chiefs  had  considerable  authority;  they  could  raise  armies,  for  ex- 
ample, and  administer  communal  lands. 

The  Inca  expansion  northward  from  modern-day  Peru  during 
the  late  fifteenth  century  met  with  fierce  resistance  by  several  Ecua- 
dorian tribes,  particularly  the  Canari,  in  the  region  around  modern- 
day  Cuenca;  the  Cara  in  the  Sierra  north  of  Quito;  and  the  Quitu, 
occupants  of  the  site  of  the  modern  capital,  after  whom  it  was  to 
be  named.  The  conquest  of  Ecuador  began  in  1463  under  the  leader- 
ship of  the  ninth  Inca,  the  great  warrior  Pachacuti  Inca  Yupan- 
qui.  In  that  year,  his  son  Topa  took  over  command  of  the  army 
and  began  his  march  northward  through  the  Sierra.  After  defeat- 
ing the  Quitu,  he  moved  southward  along  the  coast,  and  from  there 
he  launched  an  extensive  ocean  journey  that  took  him,  depending 
on  the  account,  to  the  Galapagos  Islands  or  to  the  Marquesas  Is- 
lands in  Polynesia.  Upon  his  return,  he  tried  unsuccessfully  to  sub- 
due the  populations  around  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil  and  the  island 
of  Puna.  By  1500  Topa's  son,  Huayna  Capac,  overcame  the  re- 
sistance of  these  populations  and  that  of  the  Cara,  and  thus  incor- 
porated all  of  modern-day  Ecuador  into  Tawantinsuyu,  as  the  Inca 
empire  was  known. 

The  influence  of  these  conquerors  based  in  Cuzco  (modern-day 
Peru)  was  limited  to  about  a  half  century,  or  less  in  some  parts 
of  Ecuador.  During  that  period,  some  aspects  of  life  remained 


5 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

unchanged.  Traditional  religious  beliefs,  for  example,  persisted 
throughout  the  period  of  Inca  rule.  In  other  areas,  however,  such 
as  agriculture,  land  tenure,  and  social  organization,  Inca  rule  had 
a  profound  effect  despite  its  relatively  short  duration.  Farming  re- 
mained the  major  form  of  subsistence,  but  the  Inca  introduced  a 
variety  of  new  crops,  including  yucca,  sweet  potatoes,  coca,  and 
peanuts.  The  use  of  llamas  and  irrigation  was  expanded  consider- 
ably. Largely  in  private  hands  previously,  land  became,  in  theory 
at  least,  the  property  of  the  Inca  emperor.  In  practice,  most  land 
was  held  collectively  by  the  ayllu,  an  agrarian  community  group 
headed  by  a  curaca,  which  was  the  basic  social  grouping  under  the 
Inca.  Within  the  ayllu,  each  domestic  family  unit  was  allotted  a 
small  plot  of  arable  land  to  grow  food  for  its  own  consumption. 
The  state  and  the  clergy  also  held  a  substantial  amount  of  land, 
which  was  worked  by  the  emperor's  subjects  as  part  of  their  ob- 
ligatory public  service. 

Emperor  Huayna  Capac  became  very  fond  of  Quito,  making 
it  a  secondary  capital  of  Tawantinsuyu  and  living  out  his  elder  years 
there  before  his  death  in  about  1527.  He  preferred  to  rule  through 
local  curacas  as  long  as  they  were  willing  to  accept  the  divine  authority 
of  the  Inca  and  to  pay  tribute.  When  he  met  opposition,  the  em- 
peror dispersed  large  parts  of  local  populations  to  other  areas  of 
the  empire  and  replaced  them  with  colonists  who  were  brought  from 
as  far  away  as  Chile.  This  wholesale  movement  of  populations 
helped  spread  Quechua,  the  language  of  Cuzco,  into  Ecuador.  A 
standing  army,  a  large  bureaucracy,  and  a  temporally  important 
clergy  further  enforced  the  rule  of  the  emperor. 

Huayna  Capac 's  sudden  death  from  a  strange  disease,  described 
by  one  Spanish  chronicler  as  "probably  smallpox  or  measles," 
precipitated  a  bitter  power  struggle  between  Huascar,  a  son  borne 
by  Huayna  Capac 's  sister  and  thus  the  legitimate  heir,  and  Ata- 
hualpa,  a  son  who,  although  borne  by  a  lesser  wife,  was  reputedly 
his  father's  "favorite."  This  struggle  raged  during  the  half-decade 
before  the  arrival  of  Francisco  Pizarro's  conquering  expedition  in 
1532.  The  key  battle  of  this  civil  war  was  fought  on  Ecuadorian 
soil,  near  Riobamba,  where  Huascar' s  northbound  troops  were  met 
and  defeated  by  Atahualpa's  southbound  troops.  Atahualpa's  final 
victory  over  Huascar  in  the  days  just  before  the  Spanish  conquerors 
arrived  resulted  in  large  part  from  the  loyalty  of  two  of  Huayna 
Capac 's  best  generals,  who  were  based  in  Quito  along  with 
Atahualpa.  The  victory  remains  a  source  of  national  pride  to  Ecu- 
adorians as  a  rare  case  when  "Ecuador"  forcefully  bettered  a 
"neighboring  country." 


6 


Ruins  of  Ingapirca,  an  Inca  sun  temple  in  Canar  Province 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ecuador,  Washington 


Discovery  and  Conquest 

The  discovery  and  conquest  of  Ecuador  by  Spanish  forces  in  the 
early  sixteenth  century  are  adjuncts  to  the  history  of  the  conquest 
of  Peru,  the  richest  of  the  New  World  prizes  won  for  the  Spanish 
crown.  The  central  figure  of  that  history  is  Pizarro,  an  illiterate 
adventurer  from  Trujillo  in  the  Spanish  region  of  Extremadura, 
who  had  accompanied  Vasco  Nunez  de  Balboa  in  his  crossing  of 
the  Isthmus  of  Panama  to  discover  the  Pacific  in  1513.  Eleven  years 
later,  Panamanian  governor  Pedro  Arias  de  Avila  ("Pedrarias") 
authorized  Pizarro,  in  partnership  with  an  equally  questionable 
character,  a  Castilian  named  Diego  de  Almargo,  and  a  priest  named 
Fernando  de  Luque,  to  explore  southward  down  the  west  coast  of 
South  America.  Their  first  two  voyages,  in  1524  and  1526,  ended 
in  failure;  not  until  the  third  voyage,  launched  in  1531,  would  the 
Peruvian  prize  be  won  and  the  Inca  be  conquered. 

The  first  European  to  set  foot  on  the  territory  of  modern-day 
Ecuador  was  probably  Bartolome  Ruiz  de  Estrada,  the  pilot  for 
Pizarro  on  his  second  voyage,  who  pushed  southward  while  Pizarro 
explored  the  Colombian  coast  and  Almargo  returned  to  Panama 
for  supplies.  Pizarro  himself  landed  on  the  Ecuadorian  coast  later 


7 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

during  his  exploratory  voyage  and  traveled  as  far  as  Tumbes  in 
the  extreme  north  of  present-day  Peru,  in  defiance  of  official  orders 
to  return  to  Panama. 

Having  thus  lost  the  favor  of  the  king's  representatives  in  Pan- 
ama, Pizarro  was  forced  to  return  to  the  royal  court  in  Spain  to 
petition  King  Charles  I  personally  for  authorization  of  a  third 
voyage.  Flush  with  the  success  of  Hernan  Cortes  in  Mexico  and 
tantalized  by  the  gold  pieces  brought  by  Pizarro  from  Tumbes  and 
growing  fables  of  great  wealth  in  the  South  American  interior, 
Charles  granted  Pizarro  authorization  and  much  more:  the  titles 
of  governor  and  captain- general  of  Peru,  a  generous  salary,  and 
extensive  territorial  concessions.  Almargo  was  granted  important, 
although  less  generous,  titles  and  privileges;  his  resentment  of  this 
slight  would  affect  relationships  for  the  rest  of  the  conquest.  At  the 
time  that  Charles  granted  various  titles  to  Pizarro  and  Almargo, 
he  named  de  Luque  Bishop  of  Tumbes.  Before  returning  to  Pan- 
ama in  1530,  Pizarro  recruited  for  the  conquest  several  immedi- 
ate family  members,  including  two  full  brothers  named  Gonzalo 
and  Juan  as  well  as  two  half-brothers.  The  participation  of  so  many 
of  Pizarro 's  relatives  further  strained  relations  between  the  two  part- 
ners in  conquest. 

Pizarro  then  embarked  from  Panama  with  some  1 80  men  while 
Almargo  remained  there  to  gather  additional  recruits.  After  thir- 
teen days  at  sea,  Pizarro  landed  once  again  on  the  coast  of  Ecua- 
dor, where  he  procured  some  gold,  silver,  and  emeralds,  which 
were  dispatched  to  Panama  and  put  to  good  use  in  Almargo 's  ef- 
forts. Although  the  capture  of  the  Inca  stronghold  of  Tumbes  was 
Pizarro 's  first  objective,  he  was  forced  to  spend  several  months  in 
Ecuador,  first  nursing  a  rash  of  ulcers  and  then  fighting  the  fierce 
warriors  of  the  island  of  Puna.  By  the  time  the  conquerors  arrived 
in  Tumbes,  it  had  been  destroyed  by  the  Puna  warriors  and  its 
population  dispersed.  Just  to  the  south,  they  founded  the  first  Span- 
ish settlement  in  Peru,  San  Miguel  de  Tangarara.  Upon  their  fateful 
departure  to  Cajamarca  on  September  24,  1532,  Pizarro  left  a  lieu- 
tenant, Sebastian  de  Benalcazar,  in  charge  of  protecting  and  de- 
veloping San  Miguel  as  a  Spanish  base  of  operations.  Two  years 
later,  Benalcazar  would  lead  the  conquering  forces  that  moved 
northward  into  Ecuador. 

Meanwhile,  Atahualpa  was  resting  near  Cajamarca,  in  the  Sierra 
of  northern  Peru,  following  the  defeat  and  capture  of  his  brother. 
He  had  known  of  the  arrival  of  foreign  invaders  for  several  months; 
it  is  not  clear  why  he  did  not  order  their  obliteration  before  they 
could  penetrate  into  the  heart  of  the  empire.  After  a  march  of  al- 
most two  months,  Pizarro  arrived  in  Cajamarca  and  summoned 


8 


Historical  Setting 


Atahualpa  from  the  nearby  thermal  baths  known  today  as  the  Banos 
del  Inca.  Reluctantly,  accompanied  by  several  thousands  of  his  best 
troops,  Atahualpa  went  to  Cajamarca's  central  plaza,  where  he  was 
met,  not  by  the  conquistadors,  but  by  their  chaplain,  Fray  Vicente 
de  Valverde,  who  called  upon  the  Inca  emperor  to  submit  to  the 
representatives  of  the  Spanish  crown  and  the  Christian  god.  Ata- 
hualpa replied  disparagingly,  and,  upon  his  throwing  a  Christian 
prayer  book  to  the  ground  in  contempt,  concealed  Spanish  soldiers 
opened  fire,  killing  thousands  of  Atahualpa' s  defenders  and  tak- 
ing the  Inca  emperor  captive.  This  slaughter,  called  "the  decisive 
battle"  of  the  conquest  of  Peru  by  historian  Hubert  Herring,  took 
place  on  November  16,  1532. 

A  panic-stricken  Atahualpa,  fearing  that  Pizarro  might  be  plan- 
ning to  depose  him  in  favor  of  his  rival  brother,  summoned  Huas- 
car,  at  this  time  imprisoned  in  Cuzco,  to  Cajamarca,  then  ordered 
him  to  be  executed  along  with  hundreds  of  Huascar's  nearest  of 
kin.  It  served  the  Spaniards'  purposes  to  allow  Atahualpa  the  free- 
dom, from  his  cell,  to  command  his  forces.  Thus  continued  the 
rapid  annihilation,  through  a  vicious  civil  war  that  now  overlapped 
with  the  Spanish  conquest,  of  the  army  and  leadership  of  one  of 
the  great  polities  of  modern  history.  Pizarro  was  not  planning  to 
depose  Atahualpa,  of  course,  but  to  execute  him.  First,  however, 
he  had  Atahualpa  fill  his  cell,  once  with  gold,  then  twice  with  sil- 
ver (estimated  at  4,850  kilograms  of  gold  and  9,700  kilograms  of 
silver),  supposedly  as  ransom  for  his  release.  Instead  the  Spaniards 
garrotted  Atahualpa  on  August  29,  1533,  following  a  mock  trial 
at  which  he  was  convicted  of  every  charge  that  Pizarro  could  in- 
vent for  the  occasion.  Having  deprived  the  Inca  empire  of  leader- 
ship, Pizarro  and  another  conquistador,  Hernando  de  Soto,  moved 
south  to  Cuzco,  the  heart  of  Tawantinsuyu,  which  they  captured 
in  November  1533;  they  then  led  their  men  in  an  orgy  of  looting, 
pillaging,  and  torture  in  search  of  more  precious  metals. 

Benalcazar,  Pizarro' s  lieutenant  and  fellow  Extremaduran,  had 
already  departed  from  San  Miguel  with  140  foot  soldiers  and  a  few 
horses  on  his  conquering  mission  to  Ecuador.  At  the  foot  of  Mount 
Chimborazo,  near  the  modern  city  of  Riobamba,  he  met  and  de- 
feated the  forces  of  the  great  Inca  warrior  Ruminahui  with  the  aid 
of  Canari  tribesmen  who,  happy  to  throw  off  the  yoke  of  their  Inca 
rulers,  served  as  guides  and  allies  to  the  conquering  Spaniards. 
Ruminahui  fell  back  to  Quito,  and,  while  in  pursuit  of  the  Inca 
army,  Benalcazar  encountered  another,  quite  sizable,  conquering 
party  led  by  Guatemalan  Governor  Pedro  de  Alvarado.  Bored  with 
administering  Central  America,  Alvarado  had  set  sail  for  the  south 
without  the  crown's  authorization,  landed  on  the  Ecuadorian  coast, 


9 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

and  marched  inland  to  the  Sierra.  Pizarro  had  heard  of  this  com- 
peting expedition  some  time  earlier  and  had  sent  Almargo  north 
to  reinforce  Benalcazar.  Together,  Pizarro 's  two  representatives 
managed  to  convince  Alvarado,  with  the  help  of  a  handsome 
amount  of  gold,  to  call  off  his  expedition  and  allow  the  "legal" 
conquest  to  proceed  as  planned.  Most  of  Alvarado's  men  joined 
Benalcazar  for  the  siege  of  Quito. 

Ruminahui  left  Quito  in  flames  for  the  approaching  con- 
quistadors. It  was  mid-1534,  and,  after  the  customary  orgy  of  vio- 
lence, in  December  the  Spanish  established  the  city  of  San  Francisco 
de  Quito  on  top  of  the  ruins  of  the  secondary  Inca  capital.  Benal- 
cazar was  soon  off  on  more  conquests  in  Colombia  to  the  north; 
it  was  not  until  December  1 540  that  Quito  received  its  first  captain- 
general  in  the  person  of  Gonzalo  Pizarro,  the  brother  of  Francisco. 

Benalcazar  had  also  founded  the  city  of  Guayaquil  in  1533,  but 
it  had  subsequently  been  retaken  by  the  local  Huancavilca  tribes- 
men. Francisco  de  Orellana,  yet  another  lieutenant  of  Francisco 
Pizarro  from  the  Spanish  city  of  Trujillo,  put  down  the  native  re- 
bellion and  in  1537  reestablished  this  city,  which  a  century  later 
would  become  one  of  Spain's  principal  ports  in  South  America. 

Orellana  is  chiefly  remembered,  however,  for  being  the  first  Eu- 
ropean to  travel  the  length  of  the  Amazon  River.  This  journey, 
one  of  the  great  adventure  tales  of  Spain's  conquest  of  America, 
began  in  February  1541,  when  the  lure  of  spices,  particularly  cin- 
namon, led  Pizarro 's  brother  Gonzalo  to  set  off  from  Quito  to  the 
eastern  jungle  with  a  party  that  included  210  Spaniards  and  some 
4,000  Indians.  Orellana  was  second  in  command.  After  several 
months  of  hardship  and  deprivation  during  a  crossing  of  the  Cor- 
dillera Oriental  of  the  Andes  that  cost  the  lives  of  nearly  half  the 
party,  Gonzalo  Pizarro  placed  Orellana  in  charge  of  building  a 
brigantine  in  the  Coca  River  in  present-day  Ecuador.  Together 
with  fifty- seven  Spaniards  and  several  hundred  Indians,  Orellana 
sailed  downstream  in  search  of  food  and  friendly  natives.  The  ex- 
plorers never  rejoined  Pizarro,  however,  but  set  out  on  their  own 
in  search  of  neither  food  nor  spices,  but  gold.  "Having  eaten  our 
shoes  and  saddles  boiled  with  a  few  herbs,"  wrote  Orellana  in  a 
caricature  of  the  ruggedness  for  which  the  Extremaduran  conquerors 
were  noted,  '  'we  set  out  to  reach  the  Kingdom  of  Gold. ' '  The  group 
reached  the  mouth  of  the  Amazon,  a  name  given  by  Orellana  be- 
cause he  believed  that  they  had  been  attacked  by  the  legendary  giant 
female  warriors  at  a  point  below  the  Negro  River,  and  sailed  north- 
ward along  the  Atlantic  coast  as  far  as  Venezuela,  then  back  to 
Spain.  The  journey  completed  by  the  expedition  headed  by  Ore- 
llana was  not  to  be  repeated  for  100  years. 


10 


Historical  Setting 


In  the  same  August  1542,  as  Orellana  reached  the  Atlantic,  Gon- 
zalo  Pizarro  was  stumbling  back  to  Quito  with  the  few  surviving 
members  of  his  party.  He  found  Peru  in  political  chaos.  Several 
years  earlier,  Almargo  had  entered  into  open  rebellion  against  Fran- 
cisco Pizarro  and  been  defeated  in  battle,  tried,  and  executed  in 
his  newly  founded  capital  city  of  Lima.  The  resentment  among 
Almargo's  followers  did  not  end,  however,  and  in  June  1541,  Fran- 
cisco Pizarro  had  been  assassinated  by  the  remnants  of  Almargo's 
army.  In  an  attempt  to  try  to  control  the  unruly  conquistadors  and 
to  end  the  enslavement  of  the  native  population  of  America,  the 
Spanish  crown  had  promulgated  the  New  Laws  in  1542,  which  in 
theory  though  not  in  practice  abolished  encomiendas,  and  two  years 
later  it  sent  its  first  viceroy  to  head  a  newly  created  colonial  ad- 
ministrative system. 

Gonzalo,  who  had  little  interest  in  being  controlled  by  anyone, 
defeated  and  killed  the  first  viceroy  on  a  battlefield  near  Quito. 
After  a  brief  period  of  glory,  however,  the  younger  Pizarro  was 
himself  defeated  by  the  forces  of  a  subsequent  royal  emissary,  and 
in  1548  he  was  tried  and  hung  for  treason.  It  was  the  end  of  the 
tumultuous  era  of  the  conquistadors  and  the  beginning  of  two  and 
a  half  centuries  of  relatively  pacific  colonial  rule. 

Spanish  Colonial  Era 

Spain's  colonies  in  the  New  World  were,  legally,  the  personal 
patrimony  of  the  king,  and  he  held  absolute  control  over  all  mat- 
ters in  Ecuador.  Colonial  administration  at  all  levels  was  carried 
out  in  the  name  of  the  monarch.  The  king's  chief  agency  in  Madrid 
was  the  Council  of  the  Indies,  which  devoted  most  of  its  energies 
to  formulating  legislation  designed  to  regulate  virtually  every  aspect 
of  colonial  life.  The  House  of  Trade,  seated  in  Seville,  was  placed 
in  charge  of  governing  commerce  between  Spain  and  the  colonies. 
In  America,  the  king's  major  administrative  agents  were  the  vice- 
royalty,  the  audiencia  (court),  and  the  municipal  council  (cabildo). 

Between  1544  and  1563,  Ecuador  was  an  integral  part  of  the 
Viceroyalty  of  Peru,  having  no  administrative  status  independent 
of  Lima.  It  remained  a  part  of  the  Viceroyalty  of  Peru  until  1720, 
when  it  joined  the  newly  created  Viceroyalty  of  Nueva  Granada; 
within  the  viceroyalty,  however,  Ecuador  was  awarded  its  own  au- 
diencia in  1563,  allowing  it  to  deal  directly  with  Madrid  on  certain 
matters.  The  Quito  audiencia,  which  was  both  a  court  of  justice  and 
an  advisory  body  to  the  viceroy,  consisted  of  a  president  and  several 
judges  (pidores).  The  territory  under  the  jurisdiction  of  Quito  con- 
siderably exceeded  that  of  present-day  Ecuador,  extending  south- 
ward to  the  port  of  Paita  in  the  north  of  present-day  Peru,  northward 


11 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  port  of  Buenaventura  and  the  city  of  Cali  in  the  south  of 
present-day  Colombia,  and  well  out  into  the  Amazon  River  Basin 
in  the  east.  Quito  was  also  the  site  of  the  first  (founded  in  1547) 
and  most  important  municipal  council  within  the  area  comprising 
modern-day  Ecuador.  It  consisted  of  several  councilmen  (regidores) 
whose  extensive  responsibilities  included  the  maintenance  of  pub- 
lic order  and  the  distribution  of  land  in  the  vicinity  of  the  local 
community. 

The  borders  of  the  audiencia  (or  kingdom  as  it  was  also  known) 
of  Quito  were  poorly  defined,  and  a  great  deal  of  its  territory  re- 
mained either  unexplored  or  untamed  throughout  much  of  the 
colonial  era.  Only  in  the  Sierra,  and  there  only  after  a  series  of 
battles  that  raged  throughout  the  mid-sixteenth  century,  was  the 
native  population  fully  subjugated  by  the  Spanish.  The  jungle 
lowlands  in  both  the  Oriente  and  the  coastal  region  of  Esmeraldas 
were,  in  contrast,  refuges  for  an  estimated  one-quarter  of  the  total 
native  population  that  remained  recalcitrant  and  unconquered 
throughout  most  or  all  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries. 
Despite  Orellana's  harrowing  journey  of  discovery,  the  Oriente 
remained  terra  incognita  to  the  Spanish  until  its  settlement  by  Jesuit 
missionaries  beginning  in  the  mid- seventeenth  century,  and  it  con- 
tinued to  be  largely  inaccessible  throughout  the  remainder  of  the 
colonial  period. 

The  coastal  lowlands  north  of  Manta  were  conquered,  not  by 
the  Spanish,  but  by  blacks  from  the  Guinean  coast  who,  as  slaves, 
were  shipwrecked  en  route  from  Panama  to  Peru  in  1570.  The 
blacks  killed  or  enslaved  the  native  males  and  married  the  females, 
and  within  a  generation  they  constituted  a  population  of  zambos 
(mixed  black  and  Indian)  that  resisted  Spanish  authority  until  the 
end  of  the  century  and  afterwards  managed  to  retain  a  great  deal 
of  political  and  cultural  independence. 

The  relative  autonomy  of  this  coastal  region  nearest  to  Quito 
enhanced  the  effect  of  the  Andes  in  isolating  the  Ecuadorian  Sierra 
from  the  rest  of  the  world  during  most  of  the  nearly  three  centu- 
ries of  colonial  rule.  Behind  these  barriers,  a  social  system  was  es- 
tablished that  was  essentially  a  replica  of  the  Spanish  feudal  system 
at  the  time  of  the  conquest,  with  the  peninsulares  (Spanish-born  per- 
sons residing  in  the  New  World)  being  the  ruling,  landed  elite  and 
the  Indians  being  the  subject  people  who  worked  the  land.  Although 
a  few  towns,  particularly  Quito,  Riobamba,  and  Cuenca,  grew 
along  with  the  administrative  and  Roman  Catholic  bureaucracies 
and  the  local  textile  industries,  colonial  Ecuador  was  essentially 
a  rural  society. 


12 


Historical  Setting 


The  most  common  form  in  which  the  Spanish  occupied  the  land 
was  the  encomienda.  Settlers  were  granted  land,  along  with  its 
inhabitants  and  resources,  in  return  for  taking  charge  of  defend- 
ing the  territory,  spiritually  indoctrinating  the  native  population, 
and  extracting  the  crown's  annual  tribute  (payable  half  in  gold, 
half  in  local  products)  from  the  encomienda' 's  Indian  population.  By 
the  early  seventeenth  century,  there  were  some  500  encomiendas  in 
Ecuador.  Although  many  consisted  of  quite  sizable  haciendas,  they 
were  generally  much  smaller  than  the  estates  commonly  found  else- 
where in  South  America.  A  multitude  of  reforms  and  regulations 
did  not  prevent  the  encomienda  from  becoming  a  system  of  virtual 
slavery  of  the  Indians,  estimated  at  about  one-half  the  total  Ecua- 
dorian population,  who  lived  on  them.  In  1589  the  president  of 
the  audiencia  recognized  that  many  Spaniards  were  accepting  grants 
only  to  sell  them  and  undertake  urban  occupations,  and  he  stopped 
distributing  new  lands  to  Spaniards;  however,  the  institution  of 
the  encomienda  persisted  until  nearly  the  end  of  the  colonial  period. 

Land  that  was  less  desirable  was  never  distributed,  but  rather 
was  left  to  traditional  Indian  communities  or  simply  remained  open 
public  land.  In  the  late  sixteenth  century,  the  estimated  one-quarter 
of  the  total  native  population  on  such  public  lands  was  resettled 
into  Indian  towns  called  reducciones  in  order  to  facilitate  the  collec- 
tion of  the  Indians'  tribute,  their  conversion  to  Christianity,  and 
the  exploitation,  of  their  labor. 

Outside  the  encomienda,  Indian  labor  was  most  commonly  ex- 
ploited through  the  mita,  modeled  after  the  Inca  institution  of  the 
same  name.  All  able-bodied  "free"  Indians  were  required  to  de- 
vote one  year  of  their  labor  to  some  public  or  private  Spanish  con- 
cern, be  it  constructing  a  church,  road,  or  public  building,  or 
working  in  a  textile  mill.  Although  mitayos  were  paid  for  their  labor, 
the  amount  was  extremely  meager,  often  less  than  debts  accumu- 
lated through  purchases  from  their  employer,  thus  requiring  them 
to  continue  working,  sometimes  indefinitely,  after  their  assigned 
period  of  service.  In  this  way,  the  mita  system  disintegrated  into 
debt  peonage.  Debts  were  commonly  passed  on  to  ensuing  gen- 
erations, in  which  cases  the  mita  was,  in  effect,  slavery.  Black  slaves, 
in  comparison,  were  extremely  expensive  and  were  thus  used  almost 
exclusively  in  the  lowland  plantation  culture  along  the  hot,  humid 
coast,  where  the  Sierra  Indians  proved  unable  to  adapt.  Black  slaves 
numbered  some  60,000  by  the  end  of  the  colonial  period. 

The  best  estimates  of  the  size  of  Ecuador's  native  population  at 
the  time  of  the  conquest  range  between  750,000  and  1  million.  Dis- 
eases imported  by  the  Spanish,  particularly  smallpox  and  measles, 
virtually  wiped  out  the  indigenous  coastal  population  during  the 


13 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

sixteenth  century  and  also  decimated  the  Sierra  population, 
although  not  as  thoroughly  as  in  the  Costa  or  many  other  areas 
of  Latin  America.  Despite  a  succession  of  deadly  earthquakes  and 
volcanic  eruptions,  the  native  population  increased  steadily  dur- 
ing the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  except  in  the  1690s, 
when  an  epidemic  of  smallpox  and  diphtheria  was  reported  to  have 
killed  one-third  of  Ecuador's  population. 

Ecuador's  Indians  probably  owe  their  relative  prosperity  dur- 
ing the  colonial  period  to  the  audiencia's  lack  of  mineral  resources. 
The  hardships  of  working  in  the  silver  and  mercury  mines  of  Peru 
cost  the  lives  of  millions  of  Indian  mitayos;  Ecuador,  in  contrast, 
had  only  small  deposits  of  gold  and  silver  in  its  southern  provinces 
of  Cuenca  and  Loja,  and  these  deposits  were  depleted  by  the  end 
of  the  sixteenth  century.  Its  serrano  economy  was  based,  instead, 
on  agriculture  and  textiles.  Cotton,  grown  on  the  eastern  slope  of 
the  Andes  in  Quijos  Province,  and  wool,  from  imported  merino 
sheep  that  thrived  in  the  high  Andean  valleys,  provided  the  raw 
materials  for  high-quality  textiles  that  were  manufactured  in 
hundreds  of  sweatshops,  called  obrajes,  and  exported  throughout 
Latin  America.  Indian  mitayos,  who  commonly  worked  from  dawn 
to  dusk  chained  to  their  looms,  provided  the  labor.  As  appalling 
as  were  the  preindustrial  working  conditions  in  the  obrajes,  most 
historians  agree  that  they  were  more  bearable  than  those  found 
in  the  Peruvian  mines  at  the  time. 

The  coastal  economy  revolved  around  shipping  and  trade. 
Guayaquil,  despite  being  destroyed  on  several  occasions  by  fire  and 
incessantly  plagued  by  either  yellow  fever  or  malaria,  was  a  center 
of  vigorous  trade  among  the  colonies,  a  trade  that  was  technically 
illegal  under  the  mercantilist  philosophy  of  the  contemporary  Span- 
ish rulers.  The  guiding  principle  of  mercantilism  in  the  New  World 
was  that  the  colonies  existed  to  serve  the  commercial  needs  of  Spain. 
Since  trade  among  the  colonies  would  not  enrich  Spain,  it  was 
banned.  In  addition  to  textiles  and  other  light  manufactures  from 
the  Sierra,  hardwoods  and  cocoa  from  coastal  plantations  were  ex- 
ported from  the  port  of  Guayaquil  to  points  all  over  Spanish  Amer- 
ica, while  a  wide  variety  of  items  were  imported,  including  foods 
and  wines  from  Peru.  Guayaquil  also  became  the  largest  shipbuild- 
ing center  on  the  west  coast  of  South  America  before  the  end  of 
the  colonial  period. 

The  Ecuadorian  economy,  like  that  in  the  mother  country, 
suffered  a  severe  depression  throughout  most  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury. Textile  production  dropped  an  estimated  50  to  75  percent 
between  1700  and  1800.  Ecuador's  cities  gradually  fell  into  ruins, 
and  by  1790  the  elite  was  reduced  to  poverty,  selling  haciendas 


14 


Aerial  view  of  Cuenca 
Courtesy  Martie  B.  Lisowski  Collection, 
Library  of  Congress 

and  jewelry  in  order  to  subsist.  The  Indian  population,  in  con- 
trast, probably  experienced  an  overall  improvement  in  its  situa- 
tion, as  the  closing  of  the  obrajes  commonly  led  Indians  to  work 
under  less  arduous  conditions  on  either  haciendas  or  traditional 
communal  lands.  Ecuador's  economic  woes  were,  no  doubt,  com- 
pounded by  the  expulsion  of  the  Jesuits  in  1767  by  King  Charles 
III.  Missions  in  the  Oriente  were  abandoned,  and  many  of  the  best 
schools  and  the  most  efficient  haciendas  and  obrajes  lost  the  key  per- 
sonnel that  made  them  outstanding  institutions  in  colonial  Ecuador. 

The  Bourbon  kings  were  best  known  for  their  economic  and  ad- 
ministrative reforms,  which,  like  the  expulsion  of  the  Jesuits,  were 
designed  to  enhance  the  flagging  power  of  the  crown  in  Spanish 
America.  As  a  result  of  those  reforms,  the  Quito  audiencia  was  trans- 
ferred in  1720  from  the  authority  of  the  Peruvian  vice  royalty  to 
the  newly  created  Viceroyalty  of  Nueva  Granada,  whose  capital 
was  in  Bogota.  In  the  process,  the  quiteno  authorities  gained  juris- 
diction over  their  own  political  and  military  affairs,  while  the 
audiencia' s  southern  and  eastern  boundaries  were  delineated  more 
specifically  and  retracted.  A  royal  decree  (cedula)  in  1802  further 
shrank  the  area  of  the  audiencia  by  transferring  the  provinces  of 
Quijos  and  Mainas  in  the  Oriente  to  Peru.  Another  decree  by 


15 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Charles  IV  in  1803  transferred  the  port  of  Guayaquil  to  Peru,  but 
resistance  by  port  citizens  led  to  its  being  returned  to  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  Quito  in  1819. 

Between  1736  and  1745,  a  French  scientific  mission  with  some 
of  the  best  minds  in  Europe  resided  in  Quito  and  contributed  to 
the  development  of  ideas  in  Ecuador.  While  carrying  out  their  scien- 
tific mission — measuring  the  earth's  circumference  at  the  equator — 
the  members  of  the  mission  disseminated  the  message  of  the  En- 
lightenment, which  stressed  nationalism,  individualism,  and  a  ques- 
tioning of  authority  and  tradition.  Works  ofVoltaire,  Jean-Jacques 
Rousseau,  and  Thomas  Paine,  introducing  such  revolutionary  con- 
cepts as  equality  and  freedom,  managed  to  elude  the  censors  of 
both  the  Inquisition  and  a  languishing  political  authority,  and 
penetrated  Ecuador's  historical  cultural  isolation.  The  most  famous 
Ecuadorian  intellectual  of  the  age,  Eugenio  de  Santa  Cruz  y  Espejo, 
was  a  physician  and  a  writer  who  advocated  emancipation  from 
Spain  and  a  republican,  democratic  system  of  government.  Hon- 
ored today  as  the  precursor  of  Ecuadorian  independence,  Espejo 
was  imprisoned  for  his  ideas  and  died  in  jail  in  1795. 

The  coming  of  independence  was  also  foreshadowed  by  the 
numerous  civil  disturbances  that  rocked  the  Ecuadorian  Sierra  from 
the  1760s  until  the  end  of  the  colonial  era.  In  1765  the  quiteno  white 
and  mestizo  or  cholo  (a  person  of  mixed  white  and  Indian  ances- 
try) population  revolted  against  reforms  in  the  colonial  tax  system. 
Potentially  more  serious  was  a  subsequent  series  of  Indian  rebel- 
lions in  Latacunga  and  Riobamba.  Although  clearly  of  a  political 
nature,  calling  for  the  overthrow  of  the  Spanish  regime  and  the 
expulsion  of  all  the  whites  from  the  land  in  addition  to  putting  an 
end  to  the  odious  mita  system,  these  uprisings  never  led  to  such 
large-scale  insurrections  as  occurred  in  Peru  at  the  same  time.  Iron- 
ically, the  passing  of  the  colonial  era,  according  to  most  historians, 
occasioned  a  worsening  of  conditions  for  the  indigenous  population. 

The  Struggle  for  Independence 

The  struggle  for  independence  in  the  Quito  audiencia  was  part 
of  a  movement  throughout  Spanish  America  led  by  criollos  (per- 
sons of  pure  Spanish  descent  born  in  the  New  World).  The  criollos' 
resentment  of  the  privileges  enjoyed  by  the  peninsulares  was  the  fuel 
of  revolution  against  colonial  rule.  The  spark  was  Napoleon's  in- 
vasion of  Spain,  after  which  he  deposed  King  Ferdinand  VII  and, 
in  July  1808,  placed  his  brother  Joseph  Bonaparte  on  the  Spanish 
throne. 

Shortly  afterward,  Spanish  citizens,  unhappy  at  the  usurpation 
of  the  throne  by  the  French,  began  organizing  local  juntas  loyal 


16 


Historical  Setting 


to  Ferdinand.  A  group  of  Quito's  leading  citizens  followed  suit, 
and  on  August  10,  1809,  they  seized  power  from  the  local  represen- 
tatives of  Joseph  Bonaparte  in  the  name  of  Ferdinand.  Thus,  this 
early  revolt  against  colonial  rule  (one  of  the  first  in  Spanish  America) 
was,  paradoxically,  an  expression  of  loyalty  to  the  Spanish  king. 

It  quickly  became  apparent  that  Quito's  criollo  rebels  lacked  the 
anticipated  popular  support  for  their  cause.  As  loyalist  troops  ap- 
proached Quito,  therefore,  they  peacefully  turned  power  back  to 
the  crown  authorities.  Despite  assurances  against  reprisals,  the 
returning  Spanish  authorities  (Bonaparte's  men)  proved  to  be  mer- 
ciless with  the  rebels  and,  in  the  process  of  ferreting  out  participants 
in  the  Quito  revolt,  jailed  and  abused  many  innocent  citizens.  Their 
actions,  in  turn,  bred  popular  resentment  among  quitehos,  who,  after 
several  days  of  street  fighting  in  August  1810,  won  an  agreement 
to  be  governed  by  a  junta  to  be  dominated  by  criollos,  although 
with  the  president  of  the  Audiencia  of  Quito  acting  as  its  figure- 
head leader. 

In  spite  of  widespread  opposition  within  the  rest  of  the  Quito 
audiencia,  the  junta  called  for  a  congress  in  December  1811  in  which 
it  declared  the  entire  area  of  the  audiencia  to  be  independent.  Two 
months  later,  the  junta  approved  a  constitution  for  the  state  of  Quito 
that  provided  for  democratic  governing  institutions  but  also  granted 
recognition  to  the  authority  of  Ferdinand  should  he  return  to  the 
Spanish  throne.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  junta  elected  to  launch  a 
military  offensive  against  the  Spanish,  but  the  poorly  trained  and 
badly  equipped  troops  were  no  match  for  those  of  the  viceroy  of 
Peru,  which  finally  crushed  the  quiteho  rebellion  in  December  1812. 

The  second  chapter  in  Ecuador's  struggle  for  emancipation  from 
Spanish  colonial  rule  began  in  Guayaquil,  where  independence  was 
proclaimed  in  October  1820  by  a  local  patriotic  junta  under  the 
leadership  of  the  poet  Jose  Joaquin  Olmedo.  By  this  time,  the  forces 
of  independence  had  grown  continental  in  scope  and  were  organized 
into  two  principal  armies,  one  under  the  Venezuelan  Simon  Bolivar 
Palacios  in  the  north  and  the  other  under  the  Argentine  Jose  de 
San  Martin  in  the  south.  Unlike  the  hapless  Quito  junta,  the  Guaya- 
quil patriots  were  able  to  appeal  to  foreign  allies,  Argentina  and 
Venezuela,  each  of  whom  soon  responded  by  sending  sizable  con- 
tingents to  Ecuador.  Antonio  Jose  de  Sucre  Alcala,  the  brilliant 
young  lieutenant  of  Bolivar  who  arrived  in  Guayaquil  in  May  1821 , 
was  to  become  the  key  figure  in  the  ensuing  military  struggle  against 
the  royalist  forces. 

After  a  number  of  initial  successes,  Sucre's  army  was  defeated 
at  Ambato  in  the  central  Sierra,  and  he  appealed  for  assistance  from 


17 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

San  Martin,  whose  army  was  by  now  in  Peru.  With  the  arrival 
from  the  south  of  1 ,400  fresh  soldiers  under  the  command  of  Andres 
de  Santa  Cruz  Calahumana,  the  fortunes  of  the  patriotic  army  were 
again  reversed.  A  string  of  victories  culminated  in  the  decisive  Battle 
of  Pichincha,  on  the  slopes  of  the  volcano  of  that  name  on  the 
western  outskirts  of  Quito,  on  May  24,  1822.  A  few  hours  after 
the  victory  by  the  patriots,  the  last  president  of  the  Audiencia  of 
Quito  signed  a  formal  capitulation  of  his  forces  before  Marshal 
Sucre.  Ecuador  was  at  last  free  of  Spanish  rule. 

Two  months  later,  Bolivar,  the  liberator  of  northern  South  Amer- 
ica, entered  Quito  to  a  hero's  welcome.  Later  that  July,  he  met 
San  Martin  in  Guayaquil  and  convinced  the  Argentine  general, 
who  wanted  the  port  to  return  to  Peruvian  jurisdiction,  and  the 
local  criollo  elite  in  both  major  cities  of  the  advantage  of  having 
the  former  Quito  audiencia  join  with  the  liberated  lands  to  the  north. 
As  a  result,  Ecuador  became  the  District  of  the  South  within  the 
Confederation  of  Gran  Colombia,  which  also  included  present-day 
Venezuela  and  Colombia  and  had  Bogota  as  its  capital.  This  sta- 
tus was  maintained  for  eight  tumultuous  years. 

They  were  years  in  which  warfare  dominated  the  affairs  of  Ec- 
uador. First,  the  country  found  itself  on  the  front  lines  of  Bolivar's 
war  to  liberate  Peru  from  Spanish  rule  between  1822  and  1825; 
afterward,  in  1828  and  1829,  Ecuador  was  in  the  middle  of  an 
armed  struggle  between  Peru  and  Gran  Colombia  over  the  loca- 
tion of  their  common  border.  After  a  campaign  that  included  the 
near  destruction  of  Guayaquil,  the  forces  of  Gran  Colombia,  under 
the  leadership  of  Sucre  and  Venezuelan  General  Juan  Jose  Flores, 
proved  victorious.  The  Treaty  of  1829  fixed  the  border  on  the  line 
that  had  divided  the  Quito  audiencia  and  the  Viceroyalty  of  Peru 
before  independence. 

The  population  of  Ecuador  was  divided  during  these  years  among 
three  segments:  those  favoring  the  status  quo,  those  supporting 
union  with  Peru,  and  those  advocating  autonomous  independence 
for  the  former  audiencia.  The  latter  group  was  to  prevail  following 
Venezuela's  withdrawal  from  the  confederation  during  an  1830  con- 
stitutional congress  that  had  been  called  in  Bogota  in  a  futile  effort 
to  combat  growing  separatist  tendencies  throughout  Gran  Colom- 
bia. In  May  of  that  year,  a  group  of  Quito  notables  met  to  dis- 
solve the  union  with  Gran  Colombia,  and  in  August  a  constituent 
assembly  drew  up  a  constitution  for  the  State  of  Ecuador,  so  named 
for  its  geographic  proximity  to  the  equator,  and  placed  General 
Flores  in  charge  of  political  and  military  affairs.  He  remained  the 
dominant  political  figure  during  Ecuador's  first  fifteen  years  of  in- 
dependence. 


18 


Historical  Setting 

The  First  Century  of  the  Republic 

Before  the  year  1830  drew  to  a  close,  both  Marshal  Sucre  and 
Simon  Bolivar  would  be  dead;  the  former,  murdered  (on  orders 
from  a  jealous  General  Flores,  according  to  some  historians),  and 
the  latter,  from  tuberculosis.  Heartbroken  at  the  dissolution  of  Gran 
Colombia,  Bolivar  is  quoted  as  saying  shortly  before  his  death, 
"America  is  ungovernable.  Those  who  have  served  the  revolution 
have  plowed  the  sea."  These  words  would  seem  prophetic  during 
the  chaotic  first  thirty  years  in  the  life  of  the  Republic  of  Ecuador. 

Initial  Confusion,  1830-60 

Independence  did  not  occasion  a  revolutionary  liberation  of  the 
masses  of  Ecuadorian  peasants.  On  the  contrary,  as  bad  as  the 
peasants'  situation  was,  it  probably  worsened  with  the  loss  of  the 
Spanish  royal  officials  who  had  protected  the  indigenous  popula- 
tion against  the  abuses  of  the  local  criollos.  This  criollo  elite,  which 
had  spearheaded  the  struggle  for  independence,  was  to  be  its  prin- 
cipal beneficiary.  The  early  battle  to  define  the  political  parameters 
of  the  new  state  was  fought,  to  a  great  extent,  among  the  various 
sectors — Ecuadorians  and  foreigners,  military  personnel  and  ci- 
vilians— of  this  elite. 

Flores  was  of  the  foreign  military  variety.  Born  in  Venezuela, 
he  had  fought  in  the  wars  for  independence  with  Bolivar,  who  had 
appointed  him  governor  of  Ecuador  during  its  association  with  Gran 
Colombia.  Although  of  humble  origins  with  little  formal  educa- 
tion, Flores  married  into  the  quiteno  elite,  gaining  acceptance,  ini- 
tially at  least,  within  the  local  criollo  upper  class.  As  a  leader, 
however,  he  appeared  primarily  interested  in  maintaining  his 
power.  Military  expenditures,  from  the  independence  wars  and 
from  an  unsuccessful  campaign  to  wrest  Cauca  Province  from 
Colombia  in  1832,  kept  the  state  treasury  empty  while  other  mat- 
ters were  left  unattended. 

In  1833  four  intellectuals  who  had  begun  publishing  El  Quiteno 
Libre  to  denounce  the  "pillaging  of  the  national  treasury  by  foreign- 
ers" were  killed  by  the  authorities  at  a  time  when  Flores  was  ab- 
sent from  Quito.  Although  not  directly  responsible  for  the  killings, 
Flores  inevitably  became  associated  with  them,  and  criticism  of  his 
regime  grew.  In  1834  opponents  staged  a  rebellion  in  an  effort  to 
place  Jose  Vicente  Rocafuerte  y  Rodriguez  de  Bejarano,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Guayaquil  aristocracy  who  had  recently  returned  from 
fourteen  years  abroad,  into  the  presidency.  The  rebels'  effort  failed; 
Flores  then  coopted  his  opponent  and  sponsored  Rocafuerte  as  a 
presidential  candidate.  For  four  years  following  this  Machiavellian 


19 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

political  move — in  effect  the  nation's  first  coup  d'etat — Flores  con- 
tinued to  wield  considerable  power  from  behind  the  scenes  as  com- 
mander of  the  military. 

President  Rocafuerte's  most  lasting  contribution  was  to  begin 
development  of  a  public  school  system.  Although  he  had  previously 
condemned  Flores 's  violations  of  civil  liberties,  Rocafuerte  argued 
that  "the  backwardness  of  Ecuador  makes  enlightened  despotism 
necessary."  At  the  end  of  his  term  in  1839,  Rotafuerte  returned 
to  his  native  Guayaquil  as  provincial  governor,  while  in  Quito  Flores 
was  again  inaugurated  into  the  presidency.  After  four  years  in  office, 
Flores  summoned  a  constitutional  convention  that  wrote  a  new  con- 
stitution, dubbed  "the  Charter  of  Slavery"  by  his  opponents,  and 
elected  him  to  a  new  eight-year  term  of  office. 

After  1843  the  opposition  to  Flores  often  manifested  itself  in  un- 
pleasant ways:  in  reference  to  the  dark  skin  of  Flores  and  his  fel- 
low Venezuelan  and  Colombian  soldiers,  Rocafuerte  (by  now  exiled 
in  Lima)  wrote  that  "the  white  oppressors  of  the  peninsula  were 
less  oppressive  than  the  Negro  vandals  who  have  replaced  them." 
A  young  student  named  Gabriel  Garcia  Moreno — later  to  become 
the  most  infamous  of  all  of  Ecuador's  nineteenth-century  dictators — 
tried  unsuccessfully  to  assassinate  Flores.  Discontent  had  become 
nationwide  by  1845,  when  an  insurrection  in  Guayaquil  forced 
Flores  from  the  country.  Because  their  movement  triumphed  in 
March  (marzo),  the  anti-Flores  coalition  members  became  known 
as  marcistas.  They  were  an  extremely  heterogeneous  lot  that  included 
liberal  intellectuals,  conservative  clergymen,  and  representatives 
from  Guayaquil's  successful  business  community. 

The  next  fifteen  years  constituted  one  of  the  most  turbulent  peri- 
ods in  Ecuador's  century  and  a  half  as  a  nation.  The  marcistas  fought 
among  themselves  almost  ceaselessly  and  also  had  to  struggle  against 
Flores 's  repeated  attempts  from  exile  to  overthrow  the  government. 
The  first  marcista  president  was  a  businessman,  Vicente  Ramon 
Roca,  who  served  a  full  four-year  term  of  office.  The  most  signifi- 
cant figure  of  the  era,  however,  was  General  Jose  Maria  Urbina, 
who  first  came  to  power  in  1851  through  a  coup  d'etat,  remained 
in  the  presidency  until  1856,  and  then  continued  to  dominate  the 
political  scene  until  1860.  During  this  decade  and  the  one  that  fol- 
lowed, Urbina  and  his  archrival,  Garcia  Moreno,  would  define  the 
dichotomy — between  Liberals  from  Guayaquil  and  Conservatives 
from  Quito — that  remained  the  major  sphere  of  political  struggle 
in  Ecuador  in  the  1980s  (see  Political  Parties,  ch.  4). 

Liberalism  under  Urbina  took  on  anticlerical,  ethnic,  and  re- 
gional dimensions.  In  1852  he  accused  a  group  of  Jesuit  priests — 
admitted  by  his  predecessor,  Diego  Noboa,  only  a  year  earlier — 


20 


Juan  Jose  Flores 
Courtesy  Prints  and 
Photographs  Division, 
Library  of  Congress 


Gabriel  Garcia  Moreno 
Courtesy  Prints  and 

Photographs  Division, 
Library  of  Congress 


of  political  meddling  and  expelled  them.  Urbina  freed  the  nation's 
slaves  exactly  one  week  after  his  coup  of  1851 ,  and  six  years  later, 
his  successor  and  life-long  friend,  General  Francisco  Robles,  fi- 
nally put  an  end  to  three  centuries  of  required  annual  payments 
of  tribute  by  the  Indian  population.  Henceforth,  liberalism  asso- 
ciated itself  with  bettering  the  position  of  Ecuador's  non-white  popu- 
lation. Urbina' s  and  Robles 's  favoring  of  the  Guayaquil  business 
classes  over  the  Quito  landowners  reinforced  the  regional  aspect 
of  the  political  dichotomy. 

Opposition  against  Robles  intensified  after  his  signing,  in  1857, 
of  an  unpopular  contract  aimed  at  alleviating  the  burdensome  for- 
eign debt.  By  1859 — known  by  Ecuadorian  historians  as  the  Ter- 
rible Year — the  nation  was  on  the  brink  of  anarchy.  Local  caudillos 
had  declared  several  regions  autonomous  of  the  central  government. 
One  of  these  caudillos,  Guayaquil's  Guillermo  Franco,  signed  the 
Treaty  of  Mapasingue  ceding  the  southern  provinces  of  Ecuador 
to  an  occupying  Peruvian  army  led  by  General  Ramon  Castilla. 
This  action  was  outrageous  enough  to  unite  some  previously 


21 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

disparate  elements.  Garcia  Moreno,  putting  aside  both  his  project 
to  place  Ecuador  under  a  French  protectorate  and  his  differences 
with  General  Flores,  got  together  with  the  former  dictator  to  put 
down  the  various  local  rebellions  and  force  out  the  Peruvians.  This 
effort  opened  the  last  chapter  of  Flores 's  long  career  and  marked 
the  entrance  to  power  of  Garcia  Moreno. 

The  Era  of  Conservatism,  1860-95 

Garcia  Moreno  is  the  father  of  Ecuadorian  conservatism  and  no 
doubt  the  most  controversial  figure  in  the  nation's  history,  con- 
demned by  Liberal  historians  as  Ecuador's  worst  tyrant  but  exalted 
by  Conservatives  as  the  nation's  greatest  nation-builder.  In  the  end, 
both  appraisals  may  be  accurate;  the  man  who  possibly  saved  Ec- 
uador from  disintegration  in  1859  and  then  ruled  the  nation  with 
an  iron  fist  for  the  subsequent  decade  and  a  half  was,  in  fact,  an 
extremely  complicated  personality.  Born  and  raised  under  modest 
circumstances  in  Guayaquil,  he  studied  in  Quito,  where  he  mar- 
ried into  the  local  aristocracy,  then  traveled  to  Europe  in  the  after- 
math of  the  1848  revolutionary  uprisings  and  studied  under  the 
eminent  Catholic  theologians  of  the  day. 

Garcia  Moreno's  religious  education  had  a  profound  impact  on 
the  future  president.  In  the  words  of  historian  Frederick  B.  Pike: 

His  personal  experiences  seem  to  have  influenced  his  attitudes 
toward  governing  his  country.  In  his  own  case,  liberalism  and 
religious  indifference  had  gone  hand-in-hand  with  personal 
debauchery  and  lack  of  self-  control,  while  religious  fervor  had 
been  intertwined  with  a  life  of  rigorous  self-control  and  spar- 
tan discipline.  After  coming  to  the  presidency,  Garcia  Moreno 
set  out  to  rekindle  religious  fervor  among  Ecuadorians  in  the 
expectation  that  the  entire  country  could  be  made  to  undergo 
a  transformation  paralleling  his  own. 

President  Garcia  Moreno  saw  Roman  Catholicism  as  the  ingre- 
dient of  Ecuadorian  culture  that,  through  its  emphasis  on  order, 
hierarchy,  and  discipline,  could  unite  the  nation  and  save  it  from 
the  multiple  crises  and  disorder  of  the  1850s.  Catholicism  thus  held 
a  prominent  position  in  each  of  the  two  new  constitutions  that  he 
introduced:  the  charter  of  1861  named  Catholicism  as  the  exclu- 
sive religion,  and  its  replacement  in  1869,  in  addition  to  provid- 
ing for  a  six-year  presidential  term  and  unlimited  reelection,  made 
citizenship  dependent  on  one's  adherence  to  the  Roman  Catholic 
religion.  In  1863  Garcia  Moreno  promulgated  Ecuador's  first  con- 
cordat with  the  Vatican,  bestowing  vast  powers  on  the  Ecuadorian 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  especially  with  respect  to  education.  A 


22 


Historical  Setting 


decade  later,  the  dictator's  puppet  congress  dedicated  the  republic 
to  the  Sacred  Heart  of  Jesus. 

Despite  such  proclerical  measures  that  have  led  many  histori- 
ans to  dub  his  regime  a  theocracy,  the  local  clergy  believed  Garcia 
Moreno  to  be  fanatical  and  criticized  him  for  it.  The  president, 
in  turn,  replaced  many  local  clergymen  with  foreign  priests  in  an 
effort  to  revitalize  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  Ecuador,  which 
he  considered  degenerate  and  dissolute. 

The  highly  anticlerical  Liberals  were,  of  course,  livid.  Urbina 
organized  an  invasion  in  1864,  which  was  defeated  with  the  help, 
once  again,  of  General  Flores.  Garcia  Moreno  was  ruthless  in  his 
repression  of  the  captured  rebels,  as  he  was  commonly  with  less 
formidable  opponents  as  well.  Nor  did  he  hesitate  to  manipulate 
the  presidential  succession.  Finding  his  hand-picked  successor  defi- 
cient after  two  years  in  office,  in  1867  Garcia  Moreno  presided 
over  the  installation  of  a  second  puppet,  whom  he  also  overthrew 
in  1869,  when  it  appeared  that  the  Liberals  might  win  scheduled 
elections.  In  1869  Garcia  Moreno  also  formally  established  the  Con- 
servative Party  (Partido  Conservador — PC). 

Shortly  after  the  onset  of  his  third  presidential  term  in  1875, 
Garcia  Moreno  was  hacked  to  death  with  a  machete  on  the  steps 
of  the  presidential  palace.  The  exact  motives  of  the  assassin,  a 
Colombian,  remain  unknown,  but  the  dictator's  most  outstand- 
ing critic,  the  liberal  journalist  Juan  Montalvo,  exclaimed,  "My 
pen  killed  him!" 

Although  maligned  for  his  highly  proclerical  and  dictatorial  ways, 
Garcia  Moreno  made  a  number  of  vital  contributions  to  the  de- 
velopment of  the  nation.  Perhaps  the  most  important  advances  were 
in  education.  The  establishment  of  many  new  schools  at  all  levels, 
from  primary  to  the  poly  technical  training  school  in  Quito,  elicited 
universal  praise,  despite  the  fact  that  the  Jesuits  were  largely  respon- 
sible for  these  accomplishments.  Transportation  links  with  Quito 
were  also  vastly  improved  with  the  building  of  roads  to  Esmeral- 
das  and  to  Babahoyo,  near  Guayaquil,  as  well  as  the  first  portion 
of  the  railroad  linking  Quito  with  Riobamba  and  Guayaquil.  These 
public  works  not  only  promoted  national  unity  but  also  helped  Quito 
begin  a  long-delayed  effort  to  overcome  the  geographic  barriers 
that  had  historically  caused  its  isolation,  an  isolation  that  had  hin- 
dered the  nation's  integration  into  the  world  economy. 

Between  1852  and  1890,  Ecuador's  exports  grew  in  value  from 
slightly  more  than  US$1  million  to  nearly  US$10  million.  Produc- 
tion of  cocoa,  the  most  important  export  product  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century,  grew  from  6.5  million  kilograms  to  18  million 
kilograms  during  the  same  period.  The  agricultural  export  interests, 


23 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

centered  in  the  coastal  region  near  Guayaquil,  became  closely  as- 
sociated with  the  Liberals,  whose  political  power  also  grew  steadily 
during  the  interval.  After  the  death  of  Garcia  Moreno,  it  took  the 
Liberals  twenty  years  to  consolidate  their  strength  sufficiently  to 
assume  control  of  the  government  in  Quito. 

Five  different  presidents  governed  during  the  two  decades  of  tran- 
sition between  Conservative  and  Liberal  rule.  The  first,  Antonio 
Borrero,  tried  valiantly  to  return  the  nation  to  the  rule  of  law,  but, 
after  only  ten  months  in  office,  he  was  overthrown  by  the  only  mili- 
tary dictator  of  the  period,  Ignacio  de  Veintemilla.  Although  he 
came  to  power  with  the  help  of  the  old  Liberal  General  Urbina, 
Veintemilla  later  evolved  into  a  populist  military  dictator  rather 
than  a  politician  with  any  party  or  ideological  affiliation.  He  was 
extremely  popular  with  his  troops  and  able  to  woo  the  masses  with 
employment  on  public  works  programs  and  large-scale  public  fes- 
tivals and  dances  during  holiday  periods.  In  office  until  1883,  Vein- 
temilla enjoyed  a  period  of  relative  prosperity  resulting  primarily 
from  increased  maritime  activity  while  Peru,  Bolivia,  and  Chile 
were  mired  in  the  War  of  the  Pacific. 

Jose  Maria  Placido  Caamafio,  a  Conservative,  then  served  as 
president  until  1888,  and  he  remained  a  powerful  figure  during 
the  administrations  of  the  duly  elected  Progressive  Party  (Partido 
Progresista)  presidents  who  followed  him,  Antonio  Flores  Jijon  and 
Luis  Cordero  Crespo.  Flores,  who  was  the  son  of  President  Juan 
Jose  Flores,  intended  progressivism  to  represent  a  compromise  po- 
sition between  liberalism  and  conservatism.  The  Progressive  pro- 
gram called  for  support  for  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  rule  by 
law,  and  an  end  to  dictatorship  and  military  rule.  Although  neither 
Caamafio,  Flores,  nor  Cordero  was  able  to  curtail  the  growing  ani- 
mosity between  Conservatives  and  Liberals,  their  periods  in  office 
were,  for  the  most  part,  characterized  by  relative  political  stability 
and  prosperity.  The  latter  resulted  more  from  favorable  interna- 
tional circumstances  for  cocoa  exports  than  from  astute  govern- 
ment policy  making. 

In  1895,  midway  through  his  term  in  office,  Cordero  fell  victim 
to  scandal  and  charges  of  "selling  the  flag"  over  an  agreement  made 
with  Chile.  Cordero  allowed  the  warship  Esmeralda,  which  Chile 
was  selling  to  Japan,  to  fly  the  Ecuadorian  flag  briefly  in  order  to 
protect  Chile's  neutrality  in  the  conflict  between  Japan  and  China. 
Bribes  were  apparendy  involved  and,  tremendously  weakened  by 
the  scandal  and  also  challenged  by  the  outbreak  of  several  mili- 
tary rebellions,  the  president  resigned  in  April.  In  June  the  Liber- 
als seized  power  in  Guayaquil  in  the  name  of  their  most  popular 
caudillo,  General  Jose  Eloy  Alfaro  Delgado.  Three  months  later, 


24 


Scenes  of  Quito  and  the  gathering  of  cacao  pods  in  1907 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs  Division,  Library  of  Congress 


'  'the  old  battler' '  (a  name  Alfaro  had  earned  during  his  armed  strug- 
gle against  Garcia  Moreno)  returned  after  a  decade  of  exile  in  Cen- 
tral America  and  marched  triumphantly  into  Quito.  It  was  the  end 
of  Ecuador's  brief  experiment  with  progressivism  and  the  begin- 
ning of  three  stormy  decades  of  rule  by  the  Radical  Liberal  Party 
(Partido  Liberal  Radical — PLR),  commonly  referred  to  as  the 
Liberal  Party  (Partido  Liberal). 

The  Rule  of  the  Liberals,  1895-1925 

Eloy  Alfaro  is  the  outstanding  standard-bearer  for  Ecuador's 
Liberals,  much  as  Garcia  Moreno  is  for  the  Conservatives.  Some 
Marxist  groups  have  also  looked  to  Alfaro;  although  his  political 
program  was  in  no  way  socialist,  it  did  prove  to  be  revolutionary 
in  the  extent  to  which  it  stripped  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  of 
the  power  and  privileges  previously  granted  to  it  by  Garcia  More- 
no. Catholic  officials  and  their  Conservative  allies  did  not  give  up 
without  a  fight,  however.  During  the  first  year  of  Alfaro' s  presi- 
dency, Ecuador  was  ravaged  by  a  bloody  civil  war  in  which  clergy- 
men commonly  incited  the  faithful  masses  to  rise  in  rebellion  against 


25 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  "atheistic  alfaristas"  and  were,  just  as  commonly,  themselves 
victims  of  alfarista  repression.  The  foreign-born  Bishops  Pedro 
Schumacher  of  Portoviejo  and  Arsenio  Andrade  of  Riobamba  led 
the  early  resistance  to  Alfaro.  A  full-fledged  bloodbath  may  well 
have  been  averted  only  through  the  magnanimous  efforts  of  the 
outstanding  historian  and  Archbishop  Federico  Gonzalez  Suarez, 
who  urged  the  clergy  to  abandon  the  pursuit  of  politics. 

This  final  ecclesiastical  struggle  for  control  of  Ecuador  was  in 
vain,  however.  By  the  end  of  the  Liberals'  rule  in  1925,  Roman 
Catholicism  was  no  longer  the  constitutionally  mandated  state 
religion,  official  clerical  censorship  of  reading  material  had  been 
suppressed,  many  powerful  foreign  clergy  had  been  expelled,  edu- 
cation had  been  secularized,  civil  marriage  as  well  as  divorce  had 
been  instituted,  the  concordat  with  the  Vatican  had  been  broken, 
most  of  the  church's  rural  properties  had  been  seized  by  the  state, 
and  the  republic  was  no  longer  dedicated  to  the  Sacred  Heart  of 
Jesus.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  Ecuador  would  never  again 
hold  prerogatives  as  extensive  as  those  it  enjoyed  during  the  late 
nineteenth  century. 

The  other  accomplishment  for  which  the  three  decades  of  PLR 
rule  are  remembered  is  the  completion,  in  1908,  of  the  Guayaquil- 
Quito  railroad.  At  the  time,  however,  Alfaro  was  condemned  by 
his  critics  for  "delivering  the  republic  to  the  Yankees"  through 
a  contract  signed  with  North  American  entrepreneurs  to  complete 
the  project  begun  by  Garcia  Moreno.  Although  the  criticism  did 
not  halt  Alfaro  on  this  project,  a  similar  nationalistic  outcry  did 
force  him  to  end  negotiations  with  the  United  States,  which  wanted 
to  protect  the  soon-to-be-completed  Panama  Canal,  over  military 
base  rights  in  Ecuador's  Galapagos  Islands.  Alfaro 's  affinity  for 
the  United  States  was  also  evident  in  1910,  when  war  between  Peru 
and  Ecuador  over  their  perennial  boundary  dispute  was  narrowly 
averted  through  the  mediation  of  the  United  States,  together  with 
Brazil  and  Argentina. 

The  Liberals  can  be  credited  with  few  further  accomplishments 
of  major  proportions.  The  system  of  debt  peonage  that  lingered 
in  the  Sierra  came  under  government  regulations,  albeit  weak  ones, 
and  imprisonment  for  debts  was  finally  outlawed  in  1918.  These 
and  other  limited  social  benefits  gained  by  the  Indians  and  the 
mixed-blood  montuvio  (coastal  mestizo)  working  class  were  over- 
shadowed by  the  ruinous  economic  decline  world  wide  and  the  se- 
vere repression  of  the  nascent  labor  movement  at  the  hands  of  the 
Liberals  during  the  early  1920s.  Furthermore,  Liberal  rule  did  lit- 
tle to  foster  the  development  of  stable  democracy.  On  the  contrary, 


26 


Historical  Setting 


the  first  half  of  the  period  saw  even  more  illegal  seizures  of  power 
and  military-led  governments  than  in  previous  decades. 

A  major  cause  of  the  instability  of  the  period  was  the  lack  of  unity 
within  the  PLR  itself.  Alfaro  and  a  second  military  strongman, 
General  Leonidas  Plaza  Gutierrez,  maintained  a  bitter  rivalry  over 
party  leadership  for  almost  two  decades.  Following  Alfaro 's  first 
period  in  the  presidency,  Plaza  was  elected  to  a  constitutional  term 
of  office  that  lasted  from  1901  until  1905.  In  1906,  shortly  after 
a  close  associate  of  Plaza  had  been  elected  to  succeed  him,  however, 
Alfaro  launched  a  coup  d'etat  and  returned  to  the  presidency. 
Alfaro,  in  turn,  was  overthrown  in  191 1  after  refusing  to  hand  power 
over  to  his  own  hand-picked  successor,  Emilio  Estrada.  Four  months 
later,  Estrada's  death  from  a  heart  attack  precipitated  a  brief  civil 
war  that  climaxed  the  rivalry  between  Alfaro  and  Plaza.  Alfaro 
returned  from  his  exile  in  Panama  to  lead  the  Guayaquil  garrison 
in  its  challenge  to  the  Quito-based  interim  government,  which  was 
under  the  military  authority  of  General  Plaza.  The  rebellion  was 
quickly  defeated,  however;  Alfaro  was  captured  and  transported  to 
Quito  via  the  same  railroad  that  he  had  done  so  much  to  complete. 
Once  in  the  capital,  Alfaro  was  publicly  and  unceremoniously  mur- 
dered, along  with  several  of  his  comrades,  by  a  government-instigated 
mob. 

Shortly  thereafter,  Plaza  was  inaugurated  into  his  second  presi- 
dential term  in  office.  It  was  the  first  of  four  consecutive  consti- 
tutional changes  of  government:  following  Plaza  (1912-16)  came 
Alfredo  Baquerizo  Moreno  (1916-20),  then  Jose  Luis  Tamayo 
(1920-24),  and  Gonzalo  S.  Cordova  (1924-25).  Real  power  dur- 
ing this  second  half  of  the  period  of  Liberal  rule  was  held,  not  by 
the  government,  but  by  a  plutocracy  of  coastal  agricultural  and 
banking  interests,  popularly  known  as  la  argolla  (the  ring),  whose 
linchpin  was  the  Commercial  and  Agricultural  Bank  of  Guayaquil 
led  by  Francisco  Urbina  Jado.  This  bank  gained  influence  by  loan- 
ing vast  quantities  of  money  to  the  free-spending  government  as 
well  as  to  private  individuals.  According  to  Ecuadorian  historian 
Oscar  Efren  Reyes,  the  bank  was  influential  "to  the  point  that  can- 
didates for  president  and  his  ministers,  senators,  and  deputies  had 
to  have  the  prior  approval  of  the  bank. ' '  Many  of  the  private  loans 
were  to  members  of  the  Association  of  Agriculturists  of  Ecuador, 
an  organization  that  also  received  government  funds  intended  to 
promote  an  international  cartel  of  cocoa  growers,  but  which  in- 
stead were  used  to  line  members'  pockets. 

All  parties  involved  in  la  argolla,  from  the  government  officials 
to  the  bankers  and  the  growers,  were  professed  militants  of  the 
Liberal  cause.  It  was  not  only  the  political  fortunes  of  the  party 


27 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

that  fell  victim  to  their  financial  activities,  however,  but  also  the 
national  economy,  which  experienced  runaway  inflation  as  a  result 
of  the  printing  of  money  by  the  private  banks.  The  severe  economic 
problems  during  the  final  years  of  Liberal  rule  were  also  partially 
caused  by  factors  beyond  the  control  of  the  politicians.  A  fungal 
disease  that  ravaged  Ecuador's  cacao  trees  and  the  growth  of  com- 
petition from  British  colonies  in  Africa  abruptly  ended  conditions 
that  had  favored  Ecuador's  exportation  of  cocoa  for  over  a  cen- 
tury. What  was  left  of  the  nation's  cocoa  industry  fell  victim  to 
the  sharp  decline  in  world  demand  during  the  Great  Depression. 

Ecuador's  economic  crisis  of  the  early  1920s  was  especially  dev- 
astating to  the  working  class  and  the  poor.  With  real  wages,  for 
those  lucky  enough  to  have  jobs,  eaten  away  by  inflation,  workers 
responded  with  a  general  strike  in  Guayaquil  in  1922  and  a  peasant 
rebellion  in  the  central  Sierra  the  following  year.  Both  actions  were 
aimed  at  improving  wages  and  working  conditions;  both  were  put 
down  only  after  massacres  of  major  proportions. 

President  Cordova,  closely  tied  to  la  argolla,  had  come  to  office 
in  a  fraudulent  election.  Popular  unrest,  together  with  the  ongoing 
economic  crisis  and  a  sickly  president,  laid  the  background  for  a 
bloodless  coup  d'etat  in  July  1925.  Unlike  all  previous  forays  by 
the  military  into  Ecuadorian  politics,  the  coup  of  1925  was  made 
in  the  name  of  a  collective  grouping  rather  than  a  particular  caudillo. 
The  members  of  the  League  of  Young  Officers  who  overthrew  Cor- 
dova came  to  power  with  an  agenda,  which  included  a  wide  variety 
of  social  reforms,  the  replacement  of  the  increasingly  sterile  Liberal- 
Conservative  debate,  and  the  end  of  the  rule  of  the  Liberals,  who 
had  become  decadent  after  three  decades  in  power. 

Reform,  Chaos,  and  Debacle,  1925-44 

The  reformist  officers  initially  named  a  governing  junta  consisting 
of  prominent  opponents  of  the  Liberal  plutocracy,  but  neither  it 
nor  a  succeeding  junta  was  able  to  consolidate  the  power  neces- 
sary to  govern  effectively.  In  1926  they  named  as  provisional  presi- 
dent Isidro  Ayora,  a  dedicated  reformer  who,  although  married 
into  one  of  the  wealthiest  coastal  families,  possessed  a  social  con- 
science and  the  vision  to  see  that  reform  would  help  preserve 
the  status  of  the  upper  classes.  Ayora  quickly  assumed  dictatorial 
powers,  with  which  he  set  out  to  institute  reforms  that  were  partly 
of  his  own  making  and  partly  the  making  of  the  League  of  Young 
Officers. 

An  advisory  mission  from  Princeton  University,  headed  by 
Edwin  W.  Kemmerer,  was  invited  to  propose  measures  to  re- 
organize Ecuador's  fiscal  and  monetary  structures.  Its  major 


28 


Historical  Setting 


accomplishment  was  the  creation  of  the  Central  Bank  of  Ecuador 
(Banco  Central),  which  replaced  the  private  banks'  authority  in 
the  issuing  of  currency;  in  addition,  the  Kemmerer  mission  also 
reorganized  the  state  budgeting  and  customs  agencies.  The  ap- 
propriation of  these  functions,  which  were  previously  under  the 
control  of  la  argolla,  brought  a  revenue  windfall  to  the  government 
during  the  next  half-decade.  In  addition  to  building  state  fiscal  and 
social  agencies,  the  funds  were  used  to  initiate  a  number  of  pro- 
grams, including  pensions  for  state  workers,  that  enhanced  the  secu- 
rity of  the  middle  and  lower  economic  sectors  of  the  population. 
A  range  of  social  legislation — quite  progressive  for  its  day — intended 
to  protect  the  working  class  from  unscrupulous  employers  and  to 
improve  working  conditions  emerged  from  the  enactment  of  the 
1929  constitution. 

The  same  constitution,  Ecuador's  thirteenth  in  just  under  a  cen- 
tury as  a  republic,  also  provided  for  a  powerful  legislative  body 
with  authority  to  censure  presidential  ministers.  This  diminution 
of  executive  power,  the  appearance  of  a  wide  variety  (socialist,  com- 
munist, and  populist)  of  new  groupings  in  political  competition  with 
the  traditional  parties  and  with  the  military,  and  the  devastating 
effects  of  the  Great  Depression  combined  to  make  Ecuador's  po- 
litical record  especially  unstable  during  subsequent  years.  Ayora 
was  the  first  of  fourteen  chief  executives  during  the  1930s. 

World  demand  for  cocoa  and  other  Ecuadorian  export  crops 
dropped  precipitously  in  the  wake  of  the  1929  Wall  Street  crash: 
export  crop  value  fell  from  US$15  million  in  1928  to  US$7  mil- 
lion in  1931  and  US$5  million  in  1932,  causing  widespread  un- 
employment and  misery.  Few  objections  were  voiced  in  1931  when 
Ayora  was  the  victim  of  a  military  coup.  Neptali  Bonifaz  Ascazubi 
was  then  elected  with  the  help  of  a  quasi-fascist  grouping  of  the 
serrano  lower  classes  called  the  Consolidation  of  National  Workers 
(Compactacion  Obrera  Nacional).  In  August  1932,  after  various 
Liberal  and  leftist  elements  in  Congress  blocked  Bonifaz 's  assump- 
tion of  power,  the  Compactacion  fought  a  bloody  four-day  civil 
war  against  other  paramilitary  forces  amassed  by  opponents  of  the 
president-elect.  The  latter  were  victorious,  largely  because  the  great 
majority  of  the  government  military  forces  remained  in  their  bar- 
racks rather  than  defend  Bonifaz. 

Another  election  two  months  later  brought  victory  for  the  Liberal 
candidate,  Juan  de  Dios  Martinez  Mera,  but  soon  accusations  arose 
that  the  election  had  been  fraudulent.  The  congressional  opposi- 
tion censured  virtually  every  minister  as  soon  as  he  was  named 
and  also  encouraged  the  Compactacion  to  lead  demonstrations 
against  the  president  in  the  streets  of  Quito.  The  campaign  against 


29 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Martinez  was  led  by  the  charismatic  president  of  the  Chamber  of 
Deputies,  Jose  Maria  Velasco  Ibarra,  who  at  the  time  professed 
a  "total  lack  of  presidential  ambitions."  In  September  1934,  less 
than  a  year  after  Martinez  was  forced  to  resign,  Velasco  assumed 
the  presidency  after  having  won  popular  elections  by  an  overwhelm- 
ing margin. 

The  first  of  Velasco 's  five  periods  as  president  lasted  only  eleven 
months.  He  was  overthrown  by  the  military  after  attempting  to 
assume  dictatorial  powers  by  dissolving  Congress  and  jailing  his 
congressional  opponents.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  military  placed  Fed- 
erico  Paez  in  the  presidential  palace.  An  engineer  and  former  sen- 
ator, Paez  ruled  precariously  for  two  years,  first  with  the  political 
support  of  the  socialist  left  and  then  with  that  of  the  right,  and  he 
tried  to  advance  the  reforms  undertaken  by  Ayora  a  decade  ear- 
lier. Ongoing  fiscal  difficulties  severely  limited  Paez's  efforts, 
however,  and  in  September  1937  he  was  overthrown  by  his  minister 
of  national  defense,  General  Alberto  Enriquez  Gallo.  Although  he 
ruled  for  less  than  a  year,  Enriquez  achieved  note  as  a  social  re- 
former by  his  promulgation  of  the  Labor  Code  of  1938. 

Enriquez  is  also  remembered  for  having  initiated  a  protracted 
confrontation  with  the  United  States-based  South  American  De- 
velopment Company  over  the  terms  of  its  Ecuadorian  concession 
and  the  wages  it  paid  its  Ecuadorian  employees.  The  company  re- 
fused to  comply  with  Enriquez 's  entreaty  that  more  of  the  profits 
from  its  mining  operations  stay  in  Ecuador,  and  it  won  the  sup- 
port of  the  United  States  Department  of  State.  The  Ecuadorian 
government  continued  its  demands  despite  United  States  pressure. 
In  1940  the  United  States,  hoping  to  obtain  Ecuadorian  coopera- 
tion in  its  anticipated  war  effort,  ended  its  support  for  the  mining 
firm.  Ecuadorian  president  Carlos  Alberto  Arroyo  del  Rio,  in  turn, 
proved  generous  in  his  cooperation  with  the  Allies,  allowing  the 
United  States  to  build  a  naval  base  on  the  Galapagos  Islands  and 
an  air  base  at  Salinas  on  the  Ecuadorian  mainland. 

In  addition  to  being  a  genuine  friend  and  admirer  of  the  United 
States,  Arroyo  del  Rio  was  the  leader  of  the  PLR  and  a  representa- 
tive of  the  Guayaquil -based  ''plutocracy."  He  came  to  power  con- 
stitutionally in  November  1939  upon  the  death  of  his  predecessor, 
but  he  continued  in  office  in  January  1940  through  fraudulent  elec- 
tions that  were  universally  believed  to  have  been  won  by  Velasco, 
and  continued  in  power  later,  through  repression.  Despite  such  anti- 
popular  methods  of  ruling,  he  managed  to  remain  in  office  for  almost 
four  years,  thanks  to  economic  support  by  the  United  States  and 
the  recuperation  of  Ecuador's  export  markets  as  worldwide  economic 
depression  gave  way  to  recovery  during  World  War  II. 


30 


Historical  Setting 


Arroyo  del  Rio's  undoing  was  the  disastrous  1941  war  with  Peru. 
Although  the  prior  sequence  of  events — the  breakdown  of  talks 
aimed  at  resolving  the  boundary  issues  in  1938,  followed  by  repeated 
border  skirmishes — had  given  ample  warning  of  a  possible  outbreak 
of  large-scale  hostilities,  Ecuador  was  unprepared  to  meet  the  July  5 
Peruvian  invasion.  Furthermore,  the  president's  fear  of  being  left 
unprotected  from  his  opponents  led  him  to  keep  the  nation's  best 
fighting  forces  in  Quito  while  Peruvian  troops  continuously  attacked 
the  nation's  southern  and  eastern  provinces  until  a  cease-fire  went 
into  effect  on  July  31. 

Peru's  occupation  ended  only  after  January  1942,  when  the  two 
nations  signed  the  Protocol  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Boundaries 
while  attending  the  Third  Conference  of  Foreign  Ministers  of  the 
American  Republics  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Under  the  terms  of  the  Rio 
Protocol,  the  informal  name  of  the  agreement,  Ecuador  renounced 
its  claim  to  some  200,000  square  kilometers  of  territory.  Shortly 
afterward,  the  Rio  Protocol  was  ratified  by  a  bare  plurality  of  the 
Ecuadorian  legislature  (see  fig.  2). 

The  Ecuadorian  government  quickly  regretted  having  become 
a  party  to  the  Rio  Protocol.  The  protocol  became  the  focus  of  a 
surge  of  Ecuadorian  national  pride  and  concomitant  opposition  to 
Arroyo  in  a  new  coalition — the  Democratic  Alliance.  The  coali- 
tion brought  together  a  wide  array  of  Ecuadorian  politicians  dedi- 
cated to  replacing  the  "president  who  had  been  unable  to  defend 
the  national  honor."  Arroyo's  rejoinder  that  he  would  remain  in 
office  the  full  four  years,  4  'neither  one  day  more  nor  one  day  less, ' ' 
and  his  being  prominently  hailed  in  Washington  as  "the  Apostle 
of  Pan- Americanism"  only  increased  his  political  isolation.  A  per- 
sistent inflation  that  whittled  away  at  the  purchasing  power  of 
salaried  workers  was  a  further  cause  of  popular  resentment  against 
Arroyo. 

In  May  1944,  following  an  uprising  in  Guayaquil  that  pitted  the 
military  and  civilian  supporters  of  Velasco  against  Arroyo's  police, 
the  president  finally  resigned.  The  military  handed  power  to  the 
Democratic  Alliance,  which  in  turn  named  Velasco,  whose  elec- 
toral candidacy  had  recently  been  vetoed  by  Arroyo,  as  the  popu- 
larly acclaimed  president  of  the  republic.  The  populist  master 
returned  triumphantly  from  exile  in  Colombia,  greeted  by  throngs 
of  enthusiasts  during  a  three-day  journey  to  Quito,  to  assume  the 
presidency  for  the  second  time. 

The  Postwar  Era,  1944-84 

The  quiteno  multitudes  standing  in  the  pouring  rain  on  May  3 1 , 
1944,  to  hear  Velasco  promise  a  "national  resurrection,"  with  social 


31 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


justice  and  due  punishment  for  the  "corrupt  Liberal  oligarchy" 
that  had  been  responsible  for  "staining  the  national  honor,"  be- 
lieved that  they  were  witnessing  the  birth  of  a  popular  revolution. 
Arroyo  partisans  were  promptly  jailed  or  sent  into  exile,  while 
Velasco  verbally  baited  the  business  community  and  the  rest  of  the 
political  right.  The  leftist  elements  within  Velasco 's  Democratic 
Alliance,  which  dominated  the  constituent  assembly  that  was  con- 
vened to  write  a  new  constitution,  were  nonetheless  destined  to  be 
disappointed. 

In  May  1945,  after  a  year  of  growing  hostility  between  the  presi- 
dent and  the  assembly,  which  was  vainly  awaiting  deeds  to  substan- 
tiate Velasco 's  rhetorical  advocacy  of  social  justice,  the  mercurial 
chief  executive  condemned  and  then  repudiated  the  newly  com- 
pleted constitution.  After  dismissing  the  assembly,  Velasco  held 
elections  for  a  new  assembly,  which  in  1946  drafted  a  far  more  con- 
servative constitution  that  met  with  the  president's  approval.  For 
this  brief  period,  Conservatives  replaced  the  left  as  Velasco 's  base 
of  support. 

Rather  than  attending  to  the  nation's  economic  problems,  Ve- 
lasco aggravated  them  by  financing  the  dubious  schemes  of  his  as- 
sociates. Inflation  continued  unabated,  as  did  its  negative  impact 
on  the  national  standard  of  living,  and  by  1947  foreign-exchange 
reserves  had  fallen  to  dangerously  low  levels.  In  August,  when  Ve- 
lasco was  ousted  by  his  minister  of  defense,  nobody  rose  to  defend 
the  man  who,  only  three  years  earlier,  had  been  hailed  as  the  na- 
tion's savior.  During  the  following  year,  three  different  men  briefly 
held  executive  power  before  Galo  Plaza  Lasso,  running  under  a 
coalition  of  independent  Liberals  and  socialists,  narrowly  defeated 
his  Conservative  opponent  in  presidential  elections.  His  inaugu- 
ration in  September  1948  initiated  what  was  to  become  the  long- 
est period  of  constitutional  rule  since  the  1912-24  heyday  of  the 
Liberal  plutocracy. 

Constitutional  Rule,  1948-60 

Galo  Plaza  differed  from  previous  Ecuadorian  presidents.  The 
son  of  former  President  Plaza  Gutierrez,  he  had  been  born  in  the 
United  States,  where  he  also  attended  several  universities.  His  ties 
to  the  United  States  grew  even  closer  as  a  result  of  serving  there 
as  ambassador  under  President  Arroyo  del  Rio.  These  links,  as  Pike 
points  out,  "rendered  him  vulnerable  to  charges  by  Velasco  Ibarra 
and  other  demagogic  opponents  of  being  the  lackey  of  U.S.  im- 
perialism." Galo  Plaza  was  not  a  professional  politician,  but  a  gen- 
tleman farmer  with  a  sizable  cattle  ranch  near  Quito,  where  he 
customarily  spent  weekends  throughout  his  four  years  as  president. 


33 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Galo  Plaza  brought  a  developmentalist  and  technocratic  emphasis 
to  Ecuadorian  government.  He  invited  a  wide  variety  of  foreign 
experts  in  economic  development  and  in  governmental  adminis- 
tration to  recommend  and  catalog  reforms  in  both  areas.  In  large 
part  because  of  a  lack  of  political  will  within  either  the  executive 
or  the  legislature,  however,  virtually  none  of  the  recommended  re- 
forms was  enacted.  Nevertheless,  the  economy  experienced  a 
marked  improvement,  with  inflation  finally  slowing  down  and  both 
government  budget  and  foreign  currency  accounts  balancing  for 
the  first  time  in  many  years.  This  achievement  was  even  more 
remarkable  in  light  of  the  series  of  major  earthquakes,  landslides, 
and  floods  suffered  by  Ecuador  in  1949  and  1950. 

No  doubt  Galo  Plaza's  most  important  contribution  to  Ecua- 
dorian political  culture  was  his  commitment  to  the  principles  and 
practices  of  democracy.  Galo  Plaza  endorsed  such  democratic 
guarantees  as  freedom  of  the  press  and  the  freedom  of  opponents 
to  voice  their  opinions,  to  assemble  for  political  purposes  without 
fear  of  being  jailed  or  worse,  and  to  be  elected  to  the  legislature 
without  fear  of  being  defrauded  or  arbitrarily  dismissed.  Galo  Plaza 
was  able  to  create  a  mystique  around  the  idea  of  his  completing 
his  term  in  office,  something  no  president  had  accomplished  since 
1924,  and  this  mystique  no  doubt  helped  him  achieve  his  goal. 

As  Galo  Plaza  readily  admitted,  however,  his  greatest  asset,  both 
politically  and  economically,  was  the  onset  of  the  nation's  banana 
boom,  as  diseases  plaguing  plantations  in  Central  America  turned 
Ecuador  into  an  alternative  supplier  to  the  huge  United  States  mar- 
ket. Ecuador's  banana  exports  grew  from  US$2  million  to  US$20 
million  between  1948  and  1952.  During  these  years,  Ecuador  also 
benefited  from  sizable  price  increases — generated  by  the  Korean 
War — for  its  commodity  exports. 

A  proof  of  the  politically  stabilizing  effect  of  the  banana  boom 
of  the  1950s  is  that  even  Velasco,  who  in  1952  was  elected  presi- 
dent for  the  third  time,  managed  to  serve  out  a  full  four-year  term. 
He  continued  to  spend  as  before — building  bridges,  roads,  and 
schools  at  will  and  rewarding  his  political  supporters  (including, 
this  time,  the  military)  with  jobs,  salary  increases,  and  weapons — 
but,  in  contrast  to  his  previous  times  in  office,  there  were  now  suffi- 
cient funds  to  pay  for  everything. 

Always  the  master  populist,  Velasco  (who  by  now  liked  to  be 
known  as  ''the  National  Personification")  again  came  to  power 
with  the  support  of  the  common  man,  this  time  through  the  vehi- 
cle of  the  Guayaquil-based  Concentration  of  Popular  Forces  (Con- 
centration de  Fuerzas  Populares — CFP).  Once  in  office,  however, 
he  arrested  and  deported  the  CFP  boss,  Carlos  Guevara  Moreno, 


34 


Historical  Setting 


together  with  several  other  party  leaders.  Guevara  Moreno  re- 
assumed  control  of  the  CFP  in  1955  following  a  three-year  exile. 
Velasco's  subsequent  party  support  during  the  1950s  came  from 
the  Conservatives,  the  conservative  Social  Christian  Movement 
(Movimiento  Social  Cristiano — MSC),  and  the  highly  nation- 
alistic, anticommunist,  quasi-fascist  Ecuadorian  Nationalist 
Revolutionary  Action  (Accion  Revolucionaria  Nacionalista  Ecua- 
toriana— ARNE). 

On  repeated  occasions,  members  of  ARNE  acted  as  thugs  and 
shock  troops,  attacking  students,  labor  unions,  and  the  press.  In 
1955  Velasco  also  chose  to  pick  a  fight  with  the  United  States.  In 
the  opening  round  of  what  would  later  become  known  as  the  "tuna 
war,"  Ecuadorian  officials  seized  two  fishing  boats  carrying  the 
United  States  flag,  charging  them  with  fishing  inside  the  200- 
nautical-mile  limit  claimed  by  Ecuador  as  territorial  seas  under  its 
sovereignty  (see  The  United  States,  ch.  4). 

In  1956  Camilo  Ponce  Enriquez,  the  MSC  founder  who  had 
served  in  Velasco's  cabinet,  assumed  the  presidency  after  a  close 
election  replete  with  allegations  of  fraud.  Although  late  support  from 
Velasco  proved  crucial  to  Ponce's  victory,  shortly  afterward  "the 
National  Personification"  became  the  principal  opponent  of  the 
new  chief  executive.  In  a  display  of  statesmanship  and  political  acu- 
men, Ponce  co-opted  the  Liberal  opposition  by  including  it,  along 
with  Conservatives  and  the  MSC,  in  his  cabinet. 

Although  Ponce  did  not  enact  the  Social  Christian  reforms  of 
which  he  spoke  vaguely  during  the  campaign,  the  relative  politi- 
cal calm  that  prevailed  during  his  four  years  in  office  was,  in  it- 
self, an  accomplishment  given  the  worsening  economic  situation. 
Ponce's  term  saw  the  end  of  the  banana  boom  that  had  sustained 
more  than  a  decade  of  constitutional  rule.  Falling  export  prices  led 
to  rising  unemployment  and  a  social  malaise  that  briefly  erupted 
into  riots  in  1959.  By  the  following  year,  the  effects  of  the  discon- 
tent were  ready  to  be  exploited  by  the  populist  appeal  of  the  ir- 
repressible Velasco,  who  was  elected  with  his  widest  margin  of 
victory  ever.  Velasco's  fourth  turn  in  the  presidency  initiated  a 
renewal  of  crisis,  instability,  and  military  domination  and  ended 
conjecture  that  the  political  system  had  matured  or  developed  a 
democratic  mold. 

Instability  and  Military  Dominance,  1960-72 

The  instability  began  immediately.  Ponce  was  so  angry  over 
Velasco's  vicious  campaign  attacks  on  his  government  that  he 
resigned  on  his  last  day  in  office  rather  than  preside  over  the  inau- 
guration of  his  successor.  During  his  campaign,  "the  National 


35 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Personification"  had  promised  government  support  to  the  masses 
of  urban  poor,  many  of  whom  had  recently  migrated  to  Guaya- 
quil and  other  major  cities  in  search  of  a  decent  job  and  a  place 
to  live.  Velasco's  populism  continued  into  his  inaugural  address, 
when  he  renounced  the  hated  1942  Rio  Protocol.  He  thus  came 
to  power  with  the  adoration  of  the  masses,  but  he  saddled  himself 
with  expensive  commitments  to  the  poor  at  a  time  when  deficits 
in  the  state  coffers  were  approaching  a  critical  level.  Additionally, 
Velasco  threatened  Ecuador's  shaky  economy  with  what  amounted 
to  a  declaration  of  hostilities  against  Peru  and  the  guarantors  of 
the  Rio  Protocol,  namely  Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,  and  the  United 
States. 

Sensing  the  direction  of  the  political  wind  in  the  wake  of  the 
Cuban  Revolution,  Velasco  magnified  his  anti-United  States  rhe- 
toric and  included  leftists  in  his  government.  Meanwhile,  the  United 
States  encouraged  Latin  American  governments  to  break  diplo- 
matic relations  with  Cuba.  Before  long,  Ecuador's  widening  po- 
litical polarization  became  manifest  in  outbreaks  of  violence  between 
leftist  students  and  the  anticommunist  right. 

The  rapidly  deteriorating  economic  situation  soon  brought  about 
a  split  in  the  velasquista  coalition,  however,  with  the  left,  led  by  Vice 
President  Carlos  Julio  Arosemena  Monroy  (who  was  also  presi- 
dent of  the  Chamber  of  Deputies)  openly  opposing  the  government 
in  July  1961.  By  October  relations  between  Velasco's  government 
and  Congress  had  deteriorated  to  the  point  where  legislators  and 
progovernment  spectators  engaged  in  a  gun  battle.  Although  dozens 
of  bullet  holes  were  later  found  in  the  Chamber,  no  one  was  injured. 

A  series  of  new  sales  taxes  imposed  during  the  same  month  in 
order  to  raise  desperately  needed  revenues  then  sparked  a  general 
strike  and  a  series  of  demonstrations  and  riots  in  several  major  ci- 
ties. Amid  growing  chaos,  Velasco  ordered  the  arrest  of  his  vice 
president,  a  move  that  opened  him  to  charges  of  violating  the  con- 
stitution. On  November  8,  after  only  fourteen  months  in  office, 
Velasco  was  ousted  by  the  military  and  replaced  by  Arosemena, 
who  was  his  constitutional  successor  as  well  as  his  leading  opponent. 

Arosemena  came  from  a  well-known  Guayaquil  family;  his  father 
had  briefly  served  as  president  following  a  previous  anti-Velasco 
coup  in  1947.  In  an  attempt  to  allay  concerns  about  his  being  a 
dangerous  leftist  (as  Velasco's  vice  president  he  had  expressed  warm 
sympathy  for  Cuban  leader  Fidel  Castro  Ruz  and  made  a  much- 
criticized  trip  to  the  Soviet  Union),  Arosemena  named  a  cabinet 
that  included  Liberals  and  even  Conservatives  and  quickly  sent 
former  President  Galo  Plaza  on  a  goodwill  trip  to  Washington. 


36 


Historical  Setting 


Arosemena's  insistence  on  maintaining  relations  with  Cuba, 
however,  became  a  major  domestic  political  issue  in  Ecuador.  Po- 
litical opponents  labeled  Arosemena  a  dangerous  communist,  and 
part  of  the  military  went  into  open  rebellion  in  March  1962.  The 
following  month,  Ecuador  broke  diplomatic  relations  with  Cuba, 
Poland,  and  Czechoslovakia.  The  crisis  over  Cuba  proved  to  be 
very  costly  for  Arosemena,  who  lost  not  only  much  of  his  local  po- 
litical support,  but  also  the  self-confidence  to  pursue  his  own,  in- 
dependent course.  Afterward,  the  government  drifted  with  little 
leadership  from  the  president,  who  allegedly  indulged  in  frequent 
drinking  bouts. 

The  brief  appearance  of  a  guerrilla  movement  in  the  coastal  jun- 
gle and  a  rash  of  small-scale  terrorist  incidents  (many  of  which  later 
were  found  to  have  been  staged  by  right-wing  provocateurs)  also 
left  Arosemena  open  to  accusations  of  being  either  unable  or  un- 
willing to  stop  communist  subversion.  By  early  1963,  military  con- 
spiracy was  again  afoot.  On  July  11,  the  high  command  of  the 
armed  forces  decided,  without  dissent,  to  depose  Arosemena. 

The  four-man  military  junta  that  seized  power  announced  its 
intention  not  to  return  the  nation  to  constitutional  rule  until  the 
institution  of  basic  socioeconomic  reforms,  which  both  Velasco  and 
Arosemena  had  promised  but  never  implemented.  This  failure  by 
their  two  civilian  predecessors,  the  junta  believed,  had  become  a 
source  of  growing  frustration  within  the  lower  classes,  thus  mak- 
ing them  more  receptive  to  the  lure  of  communism.  The  junta  com- 
bined its  reformist  anticommunism  with  the  more  traditional 
hard-line  variety.  After  jailing  or  exiling  the  entire  leadership  of 
the  communist  left,  the  new  government  reorganized  the  nation's 
two  leading  universities  in  an  effort  to  eliminate  them  as  sources 
of  left-wing  political  activity. 

In  July  1964,  the  junta  decreed  the  Agrarian  Reform  Law  to 
commemorate  the  first  anniversary  of  its  assumption  of  power.  The 
law  abolished  the  huasipungo  system,  the  feudalistic  land  tenure  ar- 
rangement widely  used  in  the  Sierra  (see  Peasants,  ch.  2).  However, 
the  law  resulted  in  little  real  improvement  in  the  lives  of  the  long- 
suffering  Sierra  peasants  and  died  from  lack  of  funding  under  sub- 
sequent civilian  governments. 

Meaningful  reform  was  precluded,  in  part  at  least,  by  the  in- 
creasingly cumbersome  process  of  decision  making  within  the  po- 
litically heterogeneous,  plural  executive.  Insubordination  by  the 
air  force  representative  on  the  junta  led  to  his  dismissal  and  arrest 
in  November  1965;  thereafter,  the  junta  had  only  three  members. 

In  1965  Ecuador  also  saw  a  dramatic  drop  in  its  revenue  from 
banana  exports,  and,  despite  generous  development  assistance  from 


37 


38 


Plowing  afield 
Courtesy  World  Bank 


39 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  United  States  government  and  the  Inter-American  Develop- 
ment Bank,  the  junta  suddenly  faced  an  economic  crisis  of  major 
proportions.  The  announcement  of  increased  taxes  on  imports 
sparked  the  opposition  of  the  powerful  Guayaquil^Chamber  of  Com- 
merce, which  in  March  called  for  a  general  strike.  Long-disgrunded 
student  groups  and  labor  unions  were  only  too  happy  to  join  in 
the  protest,  which  rapidly  spread  to  other  cities.  On  March  29, 
1966,  following  a  bloody  and  demoralizing  attack  on  the  Central 
University  in  Quito,  the  disillusioned  military  reformers  stepped 
down. 

The  following  day,  a  small  group  of  civilian  leaders  named 
Clemente  Yerovi  Indaburu,  a  non-partisan  banana  grower  who 
had  served  as  minister  of  economy  under  Galo  Plaza,  to  be  provi- 
sional president.  In  October  a  popularly  elected  constituent  assem- 
bly drafted  a  new  constitution  and  elected  Otto  Arosemena  Gomez, 
a  cousin  of  Carlos  Julio  and  a  political  centrist,  to  act  as  a  second 
provisional  president.  During  his  twenty  months  in  office,  the  new 
constitution  went  into  effect  in  May  1967,  and  popular  elections 
for  president  were  held  in  June  1968.  Incredibly,  Velasco — now 
seventy-five  years  old — was  voted  into  the  presidency  for  the  fifth 
time,  a  remarkable  thirty-four  years  after  his  initial  victory. 

The  weakness  of  Velasco 's  mandate — he  managed  only  a  plural- 
ity of  barely  one-third  of  the  popular  vote  in  a  crowded  field  of 
five  candidates — foreshadowed  political  difficulties  that  plagued  him 
during  his  final  term.  His  newly  formed  National  Velasquista  Fed- 
eration (Federacion  Nacional  Velasquista — FNV)  was  far  short  of 
a  majority  in  either  house  of  Congress,  and  a  failure  to  build  any 
working  coalition  made  for  a  stalemate  in  the  legislative  process. 
Even  Velasco 's  own  vice  president,  a  guayaquileno  Liberal  named 
Jorge  Zavala  Baquerizo,  turned  into  a  strident  and  vocal  critic. 
Cabinet  ministers  came  and  went  with  astonishing  frequency.  This 
political  impasse  soon  combined  with  the  fiscal  and  balance-of- 
payments  crises,  which  by  now  had  become  customary  under  the 
spendthrift  habits  and  administrative  mismanagement  associated 
with  each  of  Velasco 's  terms  in  office,  to  spawn  a  major  political 
crisis.  The  turning  point  came  on  June  22,  1970,  when  Velasco, 
in  an  action  known  as  an  autogolpe  (self-seizure  of  power),  dismissed 
Congress  and  the  Supreme  Court  and  assumed  dictatorial  powers. 

Velasco  subsequently  decreed  a  number  of  necessary,  though 
extremely  unpopular,  economic  measures.  After  devaluing  the  sucre 
(for  value  of  the  sucre — see  Glossary)  for  the  first  time  since  1961 , 
he  placed  tight  controls  on  foreign  exchange  transactions  and  then 
decreed  a  number  of  new  tax  measures,  the  most  controversial 
of  which  raised  import  tariffs  considerably.  Velasco  attempted  to 


40 


Historical  Setting 


compensate  for  his  lost  prestige  by  baiting  the  United  States,  seiz- 
ing and  fining  United  States  fishing  boats  found  within  200  nauti- 
cal miles  of  the  Ecuadorian  coast.  The  intensification  of  the  "tuna 
war"  inflamed  tempers  in  both  countries;  Ecuador  dismissed  United 
States  military  advisers,  and  the  United  States  withdrew  almost 
all  economic  and  military  aid  to  Ecuador.  Such  nationalistic  ad- 
ventures were  of  only  momentary  value  to  Velasco,  however.  In 

1971,  amid  mounting  civic  unrest  that  verified  the  extent  of  the 
opposition,  he  was  forced  to  cancel  a  scheduled  national  plebiscite 
in  which  he  hoped  to  replace  the  1967  constitution,  which  had  a 
charter  written  under  his  own  auspices  in  1946.  The  constitution, 
Velasco  argued,  made  the  president  too  weak  to  be  effective. 

The  president's  autogolpe  and  his  continuance  in  power  were  pos- 
sible because  of  support  from  the  armed  forces.  Velasco 's  key  ally 
was  his  nephew  and  minister  of  defense,  General  Jorge  Acosta 
Velasco,  who  continually  reshuffled  the  high  command  in  order 
to  retain  velasquistas  in  key  posts.  In  the  wake  of  a  failed  attempt 
to  oust  the  powerful  commandant  of  the  Quito  military  academy 
in  April  1971,  however,  Acosta  himself  was  forced  to  resign  his 
ministerial  portfolio  and  was  summarily  dispatched  to  Madrid  as 
ambassador.  Having  lost  the  man  who  was  his  linchpin  in  the  armed 
forces  and  the  only  apparent  heir  to  the  velasquista  throne,  Velasco 
was  left  to  the  mercy  of  the  high  command. 

Two  circumstances  proved  critical  in  persuading  the  military  to 
overthrow  Velasco  before  the  scheduled  completion  of  his  term  in 

1972.  On  the  one  hand,  the  state  was  due  very  shortly  to  begin 
reaping  vast  revenues  under  a  1964  petroleum  concession.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  overwhelming  favorite  to  win  the  presidency  in 
1972  was  Asaad  Bucaram  Elmhalim,  a  former  street  peddler  who 
in  1960  had  seized  the  leadership  of  the  CFP  from  Guevara  Moreno 
and  later  had  twice  been  an  extremely  popular  mayor  of  Guaya- 
quil (see  Constitutional  Rule,  1948-60,  this  ch.;  Political  Parties, 
ch.  4).  Both  the  military  and  the  business  community  regarded 
Bucaram  as  dangerous  and  unpredictable  and  unfit  to  be  presi- 
dent, especially  at  a  time  when  unprecedented  income  was  expected 
to  flow  into  the  state  coffers.  On  February  15,  1972,  four  months 
before  the  scheduled  elections,  the  military  once  again  overthrew 
Velasco,  who  was  sent  into  his  final  period  of  exile.  He  was  replaced 
by  a  three-man  military  junta  headed  by  the  Army  chief  of  staff, 
General  Guillermo  Rodriguez  Lara. 

Direct  Military  Rule,  1972-79 

The  military  regime  called  itself ''nationalist  and  revolutionary," 
but  the  well-known  connections  of  Rodriguez  Lara  to  the  Guayaquil 


41 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

business  community  signaled  disappointment  for  those  who  anti- 
cipated that  he  would  head  a  progressive  military  regime  such  as 
was  ruling  in  Peru  at  the  time.  It  shortly  became  apparent  that, 
ideologically,  the  Rodriguez  Lara  regime  was'-a  hybrid,  reflecting 
a  tenuous  equilibrium  among  the  widely  divergent  political  ten- 
dencies within  the  Ecuadorian  armed  forces.  Nevertheless,  like  the 
contemporary  Peruvian  and  Brazilian  regimes,  the  regime  of  Rod- 
riguez Lara,  he  promised,  would  not  be  an  interim  government, 
but  rather  a  long-term  venture  dedicated  to  introducing  structural 
changes  thought  necessary  to  unfreeze  the  development  process. 

Rodriguez  Lara's  regime  gave  early  emphasis  to  a  campaign 
designed  in  part  to  exert  firm  control  over  the  nation's  petroleum 
resources  and  in  part  to  consolidate  the  government's  political 
authority.  Several  former  political  leaders,  including  ex-President 
Otto  Arosemena,  were  tried  for  corruption  in  connection  with  oil 
concessions  granted  during  the  1960s.  In  addition,  a  large  num- 
ber of  functionaries  of  the  Velasco  government,  supporters  of 
Bucaram,  as  well  as  drug  traffickers,  legitimate  importers,  and  cus- 
toms officials  were  charged  with  corruption  and  "illegal  enrich- 
ment." Although  it  thus  assailed  its  major  opponents  from  the  start, 
the  military  regime,  however,  failed  to  build  its  own  civilian  base 
of  political  support. 

Promises  of  a  "meaningful  agrarian  reform"  under  the  auspices 
of  Minister  of  Agriculture  Guillermo  Maldonado,  a  dedicated 
reformer,  were  frustrated  by  intense  opposition  from  traditional 
elites.  Maldonado  was  eventually  forced  out,  and  by  the  end  of 
Rodriguez  Lara's  four  years  in  office  less  than  1  percent  of  Ecua- 
dor's cultivable  land  had  changed  hands  under  the  reform.  More 
notable  achievements  came  in  the  areas  of  building  infrastructure 
projects,  such  as  the  major  oil  refinery  and  petrochemical  complex 
in  Esmeraldas;  various  highway  and  electrification  projects;  and 
state  capitalist  enterprises,  particularly  the  Ecuadorian  State  Petro- 
leum Corporation  (Corporacion  Estatal  Petrolera  Ecuatoriana — 
CEPE).  The  latter  corporation  was  founded  in  1972  and  grew  to 
become  the  major  actor  in  Ecuador's  exploitation  of  its  oil  reserves 
(see  Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas,  ch.  3). 

Oil  policy  was  the  regime's  vehicle  for  its  most  forceful  expres- 
sion of  nationalism.  Minister  of  Natural  Resources  Gustavo  Jarrin 
Ampudia  presided  over  Ecuador's  1973  entry  into  the  Organiza- 
tion of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  (OPEC),  with  all  its  atten- 
dant prestige  and  economic  benefits.  He  was  also  responsible  for 
Ecuador's  renegotiation  of  a  number  of  oil  concessions,  including 
the  key  Texaco-Gulf  concession  in  the  Oriente,  on  terms  much  more 
favorable  to  the  state,  such  as  substantial  increases  in  both  the 


42 


Historical  Setting 


royalties  paid  by  foreign  firms  and  the  tax  rate  they  paid  on  petrol- 
eum exports.  These  efforts  were  initially  successful  in  allowing  the 
government  to  retain  a  larger  share  of  Ecuador's  petroleum  earn- 
ings. 

The  oil  companies  became  increasingly  disconcerted,  however, 
when  Jarnn  proposed  in  late  1974  that  the  share  of  stock  in  the 
Texaco-Gulf  subsidiary  held  by  CEPE  be  increased  from  25  to  51 
percent.  Claiming  that  the  terms  of  their  concessions  negotiated 
with  Jarnn  had  priced  Ecuadorian  oil  beyond  the  world  market 
price,  the  oil  companies  cut  back  drastically  on  their  exports,  at 
a  cost  to  the  government  of  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  over 
the  following  nine  months.  This  intense  financial  pressure  finally 
led  to  a  July  1975  announcement  that  taxes  on  the  oil  companies' 
exports  were  being  reduced.  It  was  thus  clear  that  the  military  re- 
gime had  overplayed  its  nationalistic  oil  policy,  having  failed  to 
keep  in  mind  that  Ecuador  was,  after  all,  a  relatively  small  oil  pro- 
ducer and  thus  not  a  powerful  player  within  OPEC. 

The  moderation  of  the  regime's  oil  policy,  however,  did  not  result 
in  the  anticipated  resolution  of  mounting  economic  problems.  Oil 
exports  rose  only  slightly,  while  imports,  particularly  of  luxury 
items,  continued  to  soar,  aided  by  a  low- tariff  policy  that  had  been 
designed  to  soak  up  petroleum  earnings,  and  thus  control  infla- 
tion. In  excess  of  22  percent  during  1974,  inflation  was  rapidly  erod- 
ing the  real  value  of  wages  within  the  middle  class. 

In  August,  in  an  effort  to  resolve  its  balance-of-payments  difficul- 
ties, the  regime  decreed  a  60  percent  duty  on  imported  luxury  items. 
The  measure  was  condemned  by  the  Chambers  of  Commerce  in 
Quito  and  Guayaquil,  whose  constituents  had  grown  dependent 
on  the  sale  of  imports,  and  caused,  a  week  later,  a  bloody  attempt 
led  by  the  chairman  of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  General  Raul  Gon- 
zalez Alvear,  to  overthrow  Rodriguez  Lara.  Although  this  coup 
attempt  failed,  at  a  cost  of  twenty-two  lives,  on  January  11,  1976, 
a  second,  bloodless  coup  was  successful  in  removing  Rodriguez 
Lara.  He  was  replaced  by  a  Supreme  Council  of  Government  con- 
sisting of  the  commanders  of  the  three  armed  services. 

Virtually  the  only  item  on  the  agenda  of  the  new  military  tri- 
umvirate was  to  preside  over  a  return  of  the  government  to  con- 
stitutional, civilian  rule.  The  bloody  September  1975  coup  attempt 
had  revealed  the  depth  of  the  breach  in  the  institutional  unity  of 
the  armed  forces.  Handing  the  government  back  to  civilians,  it  was 
hoped,  might  remove  the  causes  of  divisions  within  the  military, 
or  at  least  make  it  easier  to  hide  them  from  public  view. 

The  original  timetable,  announced  in  June  1976,  called  for  a 
transition  that  was  to  culminate  in  presidential  elections  in  February 


43 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

1978.  First,  new  government  charters  and  electoral  laws  were  to 
be  drafted  by  appointed  commissions,  and  then  a  public  referen- 
dum would  choose  between  two  proposed  constitutions.  The  tran- 
sition was  repeatedly  slowed  down,  however,  and  in  the  end,  instead 
of  the  less  than  two  years  originally  scheduled,  three  years  and  eight 
months  elapsed  between  the  1976  coup  and  the  inauguration  of 
a  civilian  president. 

Two  reasons  are  commonly  cited  for  the  delay:  the  slowness  of 
decision  making  within  the  Supreme  Council  of  Government  be- 
cause of  ongoing  disagreement  within  the  military  high  command 
and  repeated  maneuverings  by  the  military  government  to  manipu- 
late the  electoral  process,  thereby  controlling  its  outcome.  Like  the 
Rodriguez  Lara  government,  the  Council  was  particularly  interested 
in  seeing  a  poor  electoral  performance  by  the  CFP  and,  especi- 
ally, preventing  Bucaram  from  winning  the  presidency. 

The  national  referendum  to  choose  the  constitution  was  finally 
held  on  January  15,  1978.  The  results  saw  23  percent  of  the  vot- 
ing population  nullify  their  ballots,  an  action  that  had  been  advo- 
cated by  the  traditional  right;  31  percent  of  the  population  voted 
in  favor  of  a  revised  version  of  the  1945  constitution,  and  a  plural- 
ity of  44  percent  voted  in  favor  of  the  newly  drafted  national  charter. 
The  charter  was  the  more  progressive  of  the  two  constitutions,  its 
major  reforms  being  the  acknowledgement  of  a  role  for  the  state 
in  socioeconomic  development,  the  legalization  of  a  worker  self- 
managed  {autogestional)  sector  in  the  economy,  a  unicameral  legis- 
lature, no  presidential  reelection,  and,  for  the  first  time  in  Ecua- 
dor, electoral  suffrage  for  illiterates  (see  Constitutional  Background, 
ch.  4). 

Five  candidates  then  campaigned  for  the  presidency.  The  con- 
sistent favorite  in  polls  was  Rodrigo  Borja  of  the  social  democratic 
Democratic  Left  (Izquierda  Democratica — ID).  Because  the  Su- 
preme Council  of  Government  made  sure  that  Bucaram  was  barred 
from  running,  the  CFP  strongman  named  his  second  in  command, 
Jaime  Roldos,  to  be  the  party's  candidate.  In  order  to  broaden 
the  appeal  of  the  ticket,  Osvaldo  Hurtado,  the  leader  of  the  Chris- 
tian Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC),  was 
tapped  to  be  Roldos 's  vice  presidential  running  mate.  The  tradi- 
tional rightist  vote  was  split  between  two  candidates,  and  the  vari- 
ous parties  of  the  Marxist  left  coalesced  to  name  one  candidate. 
After  a  lengthy  recount,  the  final  results  of  the  July  16  election  con- 
firmed the  initial  tally  of  a  surprise  victory  by  Roldos,  with  27  per- 
cent of  the  national  vote.  Sixto  Duran  Ballen,  candidate  of  a 
coalition  of  rightist  parties,  finished  second  with  24  percent.  The 


44 


Historical  Setting 


electoral  law  mandated  that  when  no  candidate  achieved  a  majority 
vote,  a  run-off  election  between  the  two  top  finishers  be  held. 

It  was  more  than  nine  months  before  the  second-round  election 
took  place,  however.  They  were  months  of  considerable  political 
tension  and  doubt  as  to  whether  the  transition  would  proceed  as 
planned.  First,  widespread  problems  in  organizing  the  election  and 
in  the  vote  count  during  the  first  round  left  serious  doubts  as  to 
the  competence  and  honesty  of  the  electoral  authorities.  The 
Supreme  Electoral  Tribunal  (Tribunal  Superior  Electoral — TSE) 
was,  as  a  result,  completely  reorganized.  Second,  the  government — 
remembering  a  campaign  slogan  calling  "Roldos  to  the  govern- 
ment, Bucaram  to  power" — was  understandably  dismayed  with 
results  of  the  first-round  election.  By  delaying  the  second  round, 
the  government  sought  to  give  rightists  the  time  to  build  an  anti- 
Roldos  coalition  under  which  Duran  could  emerge  as  the  second- 
round  victor.  To  complicate  matters  further,  Abdon  Calderon 
Mufioz,  a  populist  candidate  who  had  won  9  percent  of  the  vote 
in  the  first  round,  was  murdered  under  circumstances  implicating 
the  government.  Finally,  as  a  further  distraction  during  this  difficult 
period,  Velasco  returned  from  exile  to  bury  his  wife  and  died  in 
March  1979  at  age  eighty-six. 

The  second  round  was  finally  held  on  April  29,  1979,  with  the 
Roldos-Hurtado  ticket  sweeping  to  an  overwhelming  68.5  percent 
victory  against  a  weak  performance  by  Duran.  Doubts  persisted, 
however,  up  to  the  moment  that  the  winners  took  office  three 
months  later,  that  the  military  would  allow  them  to  assume  their 
duly  elected  offices.  The  size  of  their  popular  mandate  and,  ac- 
cording to  political  scientist  John  D.  Martz,  pressure  from  the  ad- 
ministration of  President  Jimmy  Carter  in  Washington  made  it 
difficult  for  the  military  to  stop  the  "democratization"  process  at 
this  late  date.  The  military  did  extract  as  a  price,  in  any  case,  un- 
precedented powers  to  name  representatives  to  the  boards  of  direc- 
tors of  major  state  corporations  and  to  participate  directly  in  the 
naming  of  the  minister  of  defense.  The  outgoing  government  also 
made  it  clear  to  Roldos  (who  had  an  early  campaign  slogan  of '  'we 
will  not  forgive,  we  will  not  forget")  that  it  would  not  tolerate  any 
investigation  into  the  behavior  of  the  military  with  respect  to  human 
rights.  With  his  autonomy  thus  diminished,  Roldos  finally  assumed 
the  presidency  on  August  10,  and  thus  Ecuador  returned  to  con- 
stitutional, civilian  rule  after  almost  a  decade  of  dictatorship. 

Return  to  Democratic  Rule,  1979-84 

Roldos  presided  over  a  nation  that  had  undergone  profound 
changes  during  the  seven  years  of  military  rule.  During  the  ceremony 


45 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

to  pass  the  mantle  of  power  to  Roldos,  Admiral  Alfredo  Poveda 
Burbano  pointed  proudly  to  impressive  indicators  of  economic 
growth  between  1972  and  1979:  the  government  budget  expanded 
some  540  percent,  whereas  exports  as  well  as  per  capita  income 
increased  a  full  500  percent.  Industrial  development  had  also  pro- 
gressed, stimulated  by  the  new  oil  wealth  as  well  as  Ecuador's 
preferential  treatment  under  the  provisions  of  the  Andean  Com- 
mon Market  (Ancom,  also  known  as  the  Andean  Pact)  (see  Growth 
and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3). 

Past  export  "booms"  in  cocoa  and  bananas  were  managed  by 
and  for  private  coastal  interests,  but  the  state  controlled  the  petro- 
leum bonanza  and  thereby  transformed  the  social  landscape. 
Quito — the  seat  of  the  bureaucracy  and  the  closest  major  city  to 
the  oil  fields — reaped  the  benefits  of  the  economic  growth.  The  cap- 
ital city  lost  much  of  its  sleepy  Sierra  character  and  in  the  1980s 
competed  with  Guayaquil  as  a  center  of  modern  economic  endeavor. 
Employment  in  the  public  sector  grew  in  excess  of  10  percent  an- 
nually throughout  the  late  1970s,  creating  a  new  consumption- 
oriented  middle  class  in  Quito.  But  such  change  highlighted  the 
persistence  of  the  traditional  rural  campesino  and  the  unskilled 
urban  subproletariat;  petroleum  revenues  thus  widened  Ecuador's 
habitual  inequality  in  income  distribution  (see  Social  Classes,  ch.  2). 

Expectations  that  the  economic  and  social  changes  would  trans- 
form the  traditional  political  culture  were  unfulfilled.  Customary 
aspects  of  civilian  politics,  such  as  regionalism  and  personalism,  were 
reflected  in  the  proliferation  of  political  parties;  and  rivalry  between 
the  executive  and  legislature  persisted  during  the  five  years  that 
Roldos  and  his  vice  president,  Osvaldo  Hurtado,  were  in  power. 

The  most  destructive  of  these  traditions  was  evident  in  the  in- 
tense rivalry  that  developed  between  Roldos  and  Bucaram,  the 
strongman  of  the  president's  own  CFP,  who,  having  twice  been 
prevented  from  running  for  the  presidency,  was  now  determined 
to  run  the  country  from  his  power  base  in  the  unicameral  legisla- 
ture, the  National  Congress  (Congreso  Nacional — hereafter,  Con- 
gress). Bucaram 's  coalition  building  secured  him  the  presidency 
of  the  legislature  during  the  first  year  of  the  new  government.  The 
president,  for  his  part,  was  determined  to  retain  his  independence 
from  the  autocratic  and  increasingly  conservative  party  boss. 
Bucaram  had  no  apparent  agenda  other  than  blocking  the  reform- 
ist agenda  of  the  president,  who  was  thus  forced  to  spend  most  of 
his  first  year  in  office  scratching  together  his  own  political  base, 
independent  of  the  CFP,  in  order  to  achieve  a  legislative  majority. 

Roldos  proved  successful  in  this  effort;  in  August  1980,  his  can- 
didate for  the  congressional  presidency  narrowly  defeated  the 


46 


Women  and  children  in 
a  village  near  Riobamba 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation  (Miguel  Sayago) 


bucaramista  candidate,  and  the  CFP  also  suffered  major  losses  in 
the  municipal  and  provincial  elections  in  December.  The  presi- 
dent was  not  able  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  his  success,  however;  on 
May  24,  1981,  he  was  killed,  along  with  his  wife  and  the  minister 
of  defense,  in  an  airplane  crash  in  the  southern  province  of  Loja. 

The  death  of  Roldos  generated  intense  popular  speculation.  Some 
Ecuadorian  nationalists  attributed  it  to  the  Peruvian  government 
because  the  crash  took  place  near  the  border  where,  four  months 
previously,  the  two  nations  had  participated  in  a  bloody  flare-up 
in  their  perpetual  border  dispute.  Many  of  the  nation's  leftists, 
pointing  to  a  similar  crash  that  had  killed  Panamanian  president 
Omar  Torrijos  Herrera  less  than  three  months  later,  blamed  the 
United  States  government. 

Roldos's  constitutional  successor,  Hurtado,  immediately  faced 
an  economic  crisis  brought  on  by  the  sudden  end  of  the  petroleum 
boom.  Massive  foreign  borrowing,  initiated  during  the  years  of 
the  second  military  regime  and  continued  under  Roldos,  resulted 
in  a  foreign  debt  that  by  1983  was  nearly  US$7  billion.  The  na- 
tion's petroleum  reserves  declined  sharply  during  the  early  1980s 
because  of  exploration  failures  and  rapidly  increasing  domestic  con- 
sumption. 

The  economic  crisis  was  aggravated  in  1982  and  1983  by  dras- 
tic climatic  changes,  bringing  severe  drought  as  well  as  flooding, 
precipitated  by  the  appearance  of  the  unusually  warm  ocean  current 


47 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

known  as  "El  Nino"  (see  Climate,  ch.  2).  Analysts  estimated 
damage  to  the  nation's  infrastructure  at  US$640  million,  with 
balance-of-payments  losses  of  some  US$300  millicVn.  The  real  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  fell  to  2  percent  in  1982 
and  to  -3.3  percent  in  1983.  The  rate  of  inflation  in  1983,  52.5 
percent,  was  the  highest  ever  recorded  in  the  nation's  history. 

Although  widely  considered  a  center-leftist,  Hurtado  confronted 
the  economic  crisis  by  instituting  highly  unpopular  austerity  mea- 
sures aimed  at  gaining  the  approval  of  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  and  the  international  financial 
community  at  large.  Hurtado  eliminated  government  subsidies  for 
basic  foodstuffs — thus  contributing  to  both  inflation  and  the  im- 
poverishment of  the  masses — and  substantially  devalued  the  sucre. 
With  unemployment  increasing  to  as  high  as  13.5  percent,  the 
United  Workers  Front  (Frente  Unitario  de  Trabaj adores — FUT) 
launched  four  general  strikes  during  Hurtado 's  period  in  office. 
The  most  militant  of  these  nationwide  strikes,  in  October  1982, 
was  called  off  after  forty-eight  hours  because  of  union  leaders'  fears 
of  provoking  a  coup  d'etat. 

Outside  observers  noted  that,  however  unpopular,  Hurtado 
deserved  credit  for  keeping  Ecuador  in  good  standing  with  the  in- 
ternational financial  community  and  for  consolidating  Ecuador's 
democratic  political  system  under  extremely  difficult  conditions. 
The  political  right,  nevertheless,  believing  that  the  economic  cri- 
sis was  caused  by  presidential  policies  that  were  inimical  to  free- 
enterprise  capitalism,  bitterly  criticized  Hurtado.  The  right  united 
for  the  1984  elections  in  order  to  back  Leon  Febres  Cordero 
Ribadeneyra,  a  businessman  from  Guayaquil,  with  Borja  running 
a  close  second.  As  Febres  Cordero  entered  office  on  August  10, 
there  was  no  end  in  sight  to  the  economic  crisis  nor  to  the  intense 
struggle  that  characterized  the  political  process  in  Ecuador. 

Beginning  in  the  1960s,  Ecuadorian  historiography  benefited 
from  publication  of  a  handful  of  excellent  studies.  Nicolas  P.  Cush- 
ner's  Farm  and  Factory  and  John  Leddy  Phelan's  The  Kingdom  of  Quito 
in  the  Seventeenth  Century  offer  some  of  the  best  research  ever  con- 
ducted on  colonial  Spanish  America.  On  the  postindependence  pe- 
riod, Osvaldo  Hurtado 's  Political  Power  in  Ecuador  and  Agustm 
Cueva's  The  Process  of  Political  Domination  in  Ecuador  are  both  excel- 
lent general  studies  by  Ecuadorian  scholars  and  have  been  trans- 
lated into  English.  Frederick  B.  Pike's  The  United  States  and  the  Andean 


48 


Historical  Setting 


Republics  is  also  extremely  valuable,  although  the  reader  interested 
in  Ecuador  might  jump  over  extensive  analyses  of  Peru  and  Bolivia. 

A  number  of  political  analyses  are  also  useful  to  the  historian 
of  the  modern  period.  John  Samuel  Fitch's  The  Military  Coup  d'Etat 
as  a  Political  Process:  Ecuador,  1948-1966  is  a  pioneering,  in-depth 
study  of  the  political  mindset  of  the  Latin  American  armed  forces. 
John  D.  Martz's  Ecuador:  Conflicting  Political  Culture  and  the  Quest 
for  Progress  is  a  more  general  study  that  concentrates  on  the  1960s. 
Literature  on  the  military  government  of  the  1970s  remains  scarce; 
David  W.  Schodt's  "State  Structure  and  Reformist  Politics"  pro- 
vides useful  information  on  the  public  sector  during  that  period, 
however.  Crisis,  Conflicto y  Consenso:  Ecuador,  1979-84  by  Nick  D. 
Mills,  Jr.  is  a  valuable  study  of  the  turbulent  Roldos-Hurtado  pe- 
riod. (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bib- 
liography.) 


49 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Ceramic  curandero  (shaman)  (Jama-Coaque  culture) 


PROFOUND  REGIONAL,  ETHNIC,  AND  social  divisions  con- 
tinued to  characterize  Ecuadorian  society  in  the  1980s.  The  coun- 
try's three  main  geographic  regions,  differing  in  their  histories  and 
economies,  provided  one  of  these  divisions,  and  there  were  also 
ethnic  and  social  cleavages  within  the  regions.  The  Oriente  (eastern 
region)  traditionally  was  a  neglected  backwater,  isolated  geographi- 
cally and  culturally  from  the  rest  of  the  nation.  Its  population  was 
limited  to  dispersed  groups  of  indigenous  tropical-forest  Indians 
who  lived  by  slash-and-burn  agriculture  or  hunting  and  gather- 
ing. European  intrusion  was  limited  to  the  occasional  missionary 
or  trader.  Beginning  in  the  1960s,  however,  the  Oriente  experienced 
colonization  by  land-poor  peasants  from  the  Sierra  (Andean  high- 
lands) and  exploration  by  oil  companies.  Both  colonization  and 
exploration  had  a  devastating  impact  on  the  indigenous  population. 

The  Sierra,  the  region  of  earliest  European  settlement,  was  ruled 
for  most  of  its  history  by  a  narrow  rural  oligarchy  whose  power 
base  lay  in  the  sizeable  haciendas  they  controlled.  The  haciendas 
dominated  both  social  and  economic  relations.  Most  of  the  popu- 
lation depended  to  a  greater  or  lesser  extent  on  the  largess  of  the 
white  elite  who  controlled  land.  This  elite  ruled  virtually  without 
challenge  until  the  mid-twentieth  century.  Between  this  white  elite 
and  the  mass  of  Sierra  Indians  were  the  mestizos  or  cholos — persons 
of  mixed  Spanish  and  Indian  ancestry.  In  values  and  identity,  they 
were  closer  to  the  dominant  whites.  The  Sierra  Indians,  who  stood 
at  the  bottom  of  the  social  pyramid,  had  very  limited  opportuni- 
ties for  economic  security  or  social  advancement.  Both  mestizos 
and  whites  regarded  Indians  as  immutably  inferior.  The  latter' s 
only  hope  for  improvement  lay  in  assimilating  the  norms  and  values 
of  the  dominant  ethnic  groups,  thereby  changing  ethnic  affiliation. 

Like  the  hacendados  of  the  Sierra,  the  elite  of  the  Costa  (coastal 
region)  also  had  its  roots  in  agriculture  and  the  control  of  land, 
but  its  attention  focused  primarily  on  export  crop  production  and 
commerce.  Ethnically  more  diverse  than  the  Hispanic  elite  of  the 
Sierra,  the  Costa  upper  class  included  successful  immigrant  fami- 
lies drawn  over  the  years  by  the  region's  expanding  economy.  Most 
of  Ecuador's  blacks,  the  descendants  of  the  small  numbers  of  Afri- 
can slaves  who  came  to  work  on  the  region's  plantations,  were  also 
costenos  (residents  of  the  Costa). 

The  twentieth  century  saw  the  rise  of  an  Ecuadorian  middle  class 
whose  interests  were  genuinely  distinct  from  the  narrowly  based 
rural  oligarchy,  and  the  demise  of  the  self-contained,  autonomous 


53 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

hacienda.  Changes  in  the  hacienda  economy  createdva  mobile,  rural- 
based  labor  force,  and  by  the  end  of  the  1980s,  society  consisted 
of  a  small,  privileged  elite;  a  more  numerous,  diverse,  and  politi- 
cally active  middle  class;  and  the  mass  of  impoverished  small-scale 
peasants,  artisans,  and  wage  earners.  The  middle  class  transformed 
Ecuadorian  politics. 

Like  many  other  Latin  American  nations,  Ecuador  had  enacted 
agrarian  reform  legislation  in  the  1960s  and  1970s.  These  laws 
brought  litde  substantive  improvement  in  the  lives  of  most  peasants, 
but  rather  afforded  Costa  and  Sierra  landlords  an  impetus  and  an 
opportunity  to  replace  their  resident  and  permanent  laborers  with 
temporary  workers.  In  the  Sierra  this  trend,  coupled  with  increased 
population  pressure  on  land,  continued  a  pattern  of  migration  to 
the  Costa  and  the  Oriente  that  had  begun  in  the  1950s.  The  volume 
of  rural-urban  migration  grew  in  both  the  Costa  and  Sierra  until, 
in  the  early  1980s,  nearly  half  of  all  Ecuadorians  lived  in  cities. 

Geography 

Ecuador  is  one  of  the  smaller  countries  in  South  America.  Lo- 
cated on  the  west  coast  and  straddling  the  equator,  Ecuador  has  a 
total  area  of  about  280,000  square  kilometers,  which  includes  the 
Galapagos  Islands.  Roughly  the  size  of  the  state  of  Colorado,  Ecua- 
dor encompasses  a  wide  range  of  natural  formations  and  climates, 
from  the  desertlike  southern  coast  to  the  snowcapped  peaks  of  the 
Andes  Mountains  to  the  plains  of  the  Amazon  River  Basin  (see  fig.  3). 

Ecuador  is  bounded  on  the  west  by  the  Pacific  Ocean,  on  the 
north  by  Colombia,  and  on  the  east  and  south  by  Peru.  Ecuador 
continues  to  contest  the  boundary  with  Peru,  which  was  established 
by  the  Protocol  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Boundaries  (Rio  Pro- 
tocol) of  1942  and  ceded  to  Peru  a  large  portion  of  territory  east 
of  the  Andes  (see  Reform,  Chaos,  and  Debacle,  1925-44,  ch.  1). 

Natural  Regions 

Ecuador  is  divided  into  three  continental  regions — the  Costa, 
Sierra,  and  Oriente — and  one  insular  region — the  Galapagos  Is- 
lands. The  continental  regions  extend  the  length  of  the  country 
from  north  to  south  and  are  separated  by  the  Andes  Mountains. 
The  Galapagos  Islands,  officially  called  the  Archipielago  de  Colon, 
are  located  1,000  kilometers  west  of  the  Ecuadorian  coast  within 
1°  south  of  the  equator. 

The  Costa,  located  between  the  Pacific  Ocean  and  the  Andes 
Mountains,  consists  of  coastal  lowlands,  coastal  mountains,  and  roll- 
ing hills  that  separate  river  valleys.  The  widest  part  of  the  region 
stretches  150  kilometers  from  Cabo  San  Lorenzo  in  Manabi  Province 


54 


! 


i 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  the  foothills  of  the  Andes  Mountains.  In  the  southern  part  of 
Guayas  Province,  east  of  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil,  the  narrow  coastal 
plain  is  only  fifteen  to  twenty  kilometers  wide.  The  lowlands  of  the 
Costa  do  not  exceed  200  meters  in  elevation,  whereas  the  coastal 
mountains  extend  no  higher  than  1,000  meters.  The  coastal  moun- 
tain chain,  known  as  the  Cordillera  Costanera,  divides  the  region 
into  the  Costa  Externa,  next  to  the  coast,  and  the  Costa  Interna, 
next  to  the  Andes.  The  Cordillera  Costanera  reaches  from  Esmeral- 
das  in  the  north  to  Guayaquil  in  the  south.  North  of  Portoviejo  in 
Manabi  Province,  the  Cordillera  Costanera  loses  its  character  as 
a  mountain  chain  and  becomes  a  series  of  hills  and  small  mountains. 

The  Sierra  consists  of  two  major  chains  of  the  Andes  mountains, 
known  as  the  Cordillera  Occidental  (Western  Chain)  and  Cordillera 
Oriental  (Eastern  Chain),  and  the  intermontane  basin  or  plateau 
between  the  two  chains.  Several  transversal  mountain  spurs,  known 
as  nudos,  cut  across  the  plateau.  The  Nudo  del  Azuay,  at  4,500 
meters  the  highest  of  these  transversal  spurs,  divides  the  Sierra  into 
two  subregions — the  area  of  modern  volcanism  to  the  north  and 
the  area  of  ancient  volcanism  to  the  south.  The  former  area  con- 
sists of  newer,  higher  mountains  than  those  in  the  ancient  volcan- 
ism section,  which  with  time  have  eroded  to  lower  levels. 

The  Sierra  has  at  least  twenty- two  peaks  over  4,200  meters  in 
height.  Of  the  two  Cordilleras,  the  Cordillera  Oriental  is  wider  and 
generally  higher,  with  peaks  averaging  over  4,000  meters.  The  Cor- 
dillera Occidental,  however,  contains  the  highest  point  in  Ecua- 
dor, which  is  Mount  Chimborazo  at  6,267  meters.  The  Sierra  also 
contains  the  highest  point  on  the  equator,  Mount  Cayambe  at  5,790 
meters. 

The  Sierra  has  at  least  thirty  peaks  of  volcanic  origin,  including 
six  still  active.  These  peaks,  which  vary  in  width  from  80  to  130 
kilometers,  are  located  in  the  area  of  modern  volcanism  known  as 
the  Avenue  of  the  Volcanos.  The  most  active  volcano  is  Mount 
Sangay,  5,230  meters  high.  Although  its  last  major  outpouring  of 
lava  occurred  in  1946,  specialists  consider  Mount  Sangay  to  be  in 
a  constant  state  of  eruption  because  of  fires  and  bubbling  lava  at 
its  crater.  Mount  Cotopaxi,  at  5,897  meters  the  highest  active  vol- 
cano in  the  world,  last  erupted  in  1877  and  is  now  listed  as  *  'steam- 
ing." Its  crater  is  800  meters  in  diameter.  In  addition  to  the  other 
damage  caused  by  eruptions,  volcanos  in  the  Sierra  have  melted 
snowcaps,  which  in  turn  generate  massive  mudslides  and  ava- 
lanches. Earthquakes  and  tremors  also  are  common  in  the  region. 

The  intermontane  plateau  between  the  two  Cordilleras  is  divided 
by  the  nudos  into  roughly  10  basins,  or  hoy  as,  that  range  from  2,000 
to  3,000  meters  in  altitude.  The  average  altitude  of  the  plateau  is 
2,650  meters. 


57 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study  v 

The  Oriente  to  the  east  of  the  Cordillera  Oriental  consists  of  two 
subregions:  the  Andean  piedmont  and  the  Eastern  lowlands.  The 
piedmont  drops  from  a  height  of  3,000  meters  to  the  featureless 
lowlands,  which  spread  out  at  an  altitude  of  150  to  300  meters. 

The  Galapagos  Islands  consist  of  a  chain  of  large,  medium,  and 
small  islands  that  have  a  combined  area  of  roughly  8,000  square 
kilometers.  The  largest  island  is  Isabela  Island,  also  known  as  Albe- 
marle Island,  which  is  120  kilometers  long  with  an  area  of  4,275 
square  kilometers.  All  of  the  islands  are  of  volcanic  origin,  and  some 
have  active  cones.  Santo  Tomas,  located  on  Isabela  Island,  is  the 
highest  peak  of  the  Galapagos  at  1,490  meters.  Its  crater  is  ten 
kilometers  in  diameter. 

Drainage 

Almost  all  of  the  rivers  in  Ecuador  rise  in  the  Sierra  region  and 
flow  east  toward  the  Amazon  River  or  west  toward  the  Pacific 
Ocean.  The  rivers  rise  from  snowmelt  at  the  edges  of  the  snow- 
capped peaks  or  from  the  abundant  precipitation  that  falls  at  higher 
elevations.  In  the  Sierra  region,  the  streams  and  rivers  are  narrow 
and  flow  rapidly  over  precipitous  slopes.  Rivers  may  slow  and  widen 
as  they  cross  the  hoyas  yet  become  rapid  again  as  they  flow  from 
the  heights  of  the  Andes  to  the  lower  elevations  of  the  other  regions. 
The  highland  rivers  broaden  as  they  enter  the  more  level  areas  of 
the  Costa  and  the  Oriente. 

In  the  Costa  region,  the  Costa  Externa  has  mostly  intermittent 
rivers  that  are  fed  by  constant  rains  from  December  through  May 
and  become  empty  riverbeds  during  the  dry  season.  The  few  ex- 
ceptions are  the  longer,  perennial  rivers  that  flow  throughout  the 
Costa  Externa  from  the  Costa  Interna  and  the  Sierra  on  their  way 
to  the  Pacific  Ocean.  The  Costa  Interna,  by  contrast,  is  crossed 
by  perennial  rivers  that  may  flood  during  the  rainy  season,  some- 
times forming  swamps. 

The  Guayas  River  system,  which  flows  southward  to  the  Gulf 
of  Guayaquil,  constitutes  the  most  important  of  the  drainage  sys- 
tems in  the  Costa  Interna.  The  Guayas  River  Basin,  including  land 
drained  by  its  tributaries,  is  40,000  square  kilometers  in  area.  The 
sixty-kilometer-long  Guayas  River  forms  just  north  of  Guayaquil 
out  of  the  confluence  of  the  Babahoyo  and  Daule  rivers.  Briefly  con- 
stricted at  Guayaquil  by  hills,  the  Guayas  widens  south  of  the  city 
and  flows  through  a  deltaic  network  of  small  islands  and  channels. 
At  its  mouth,  the  river  forms  a  broad  estuary  with  two  channels 
around  Puna  Island,  the  deeper  of  which  is  used  for  navigation. 

The  second  major  Costa  river  system — the  Esmeraldas — rises 
in  the  Hoya  de  Quito  in  the  Sierra  as  the  Guayllabamba  River 
and  flows  westward  to  empty  into  the  Pacific  Ocean  near  the  city 


58 


Mount  Cotopaxi 
Courtesy  Martie  B.  Lisowski  Collection, 
Library  of  Congress 

of  Esmeraldas.  The  Esmeraldas  River  is  320  kilometers  long  and 
has  a  20, 000- square-kilometer  drainage  basin. 

Major  rivers  in  the  Oriente  include  the  Pastaza,  Napo,  and  Putu- 
mayo.  The  Pastaza  is  formed  by  the  confluence  of  the  Chambo  and 
the  Patate  rivers,  both  of  which  rise  in  the  Sierra.  The  Pastaza  in- 
cludes the  Agoyan  waterfall,  which  at  sixty-one  meters  is  the  highest 
waterfall  in  Ecuador.  The  Napo  rises  near  Mount  Cotopaxi  and  is 
the  major  river  used  for  transport  in  the  Eastern  lowlands.  The  Napo 
ranges  in  width  from  500  to  1 ,800  meters.  In  its  upper  reaches,  the 
Napo  flows  rapidly  until  the  confluence  with  one  of  its  major  tribu- 
taries, the  Coca  River,  where  it  slows  and  levels  off.  The  Putumayo 
forms  part  of  the  border  with  Colombia.  All  of  these  rivers  flow  into 
the  Amazon  River. 

The  Galapagos  Islands  have  no  significant  rivers.  Several  of  the 
larger  islands,  however,  have  freshwater  springs. 

Climate 

Each  region  has  different  factors  that  affect  its  climate.  The  Costa 
is  influenced  primarily  by  proximity  to  warm  or  cool  ocean  currents. 
By  contrast,  climate  in  the  Sierra  varies  more  as  a  function  of  alti- 
tude. The  Oriente  has  a  fairly  uniform  climate  that  varies  only 


59 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

slightly  between  the  two  subregions.  Climate  in  the  Galapagos 
Islands  is  both  moderated  by  the  ocean  currents  and  affected  by 
altitude.  Throughout  Ecuador  variation  in  rainfall  primarily  deter- 
mines seasons.  Temperature  is  determined  by  altitude.  With  each 
ascent  of  200  meters  in  altitude,  temperature  drops  1  °C.  This  phe- 
nomenon is  particularly  significant  in  the  Sierra. 

The  Costa  has  a  tropical  climate.  Temperatures  for  the  region 
as  a  whole  remain  fairly  constant,  ranging  from  23°C  in  the  south 
to  26°C  in  the  north.  Although  seasonal  changes  in  temperature 
are  not  pronounced,  the  hottest  period  occurs  during  the  rainy  sea- 
son, especially  from  February  to  April.  Near  Guayaquil,  the  coolest 
months  are  August  and  September.  Rainfall  in  the  Costa  decreases 
from  north  to  south,  with  vegetation  changing  from  tropical  rain- 
forest in  the  north  to  tropical  savannah  to  desert  in  the  south. 

Differences  in  temperature  and  rainfall  in  the  Costa  are  caused 
by  the  Peruvian  Current  and  periodic  appearances  of  El  Nino.  The 
Peruvian  Current,  also  formerly  known  as  the  Humboldt,  is  a  cold 
ocean  current  that  flows  north  along  the  coasts  of  Chile  and  Peru. 
At  Cabo  Blanco,  where  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil  begins,  the  main 
current  veers  to  the  west;  a  branch  continues  northward  to  Cabo 
Pasado,  in  Manabi  Province,  where  it  also  turns  westward  to  merge 
with  the  main  current  near  the  Galapagos  Islands.  The  cold  water 
and  air  temperatures  associated  with  the  Peruvian  Current  inhibit 
rainfall  along  the  coast,  creating  dry  to  arid  conditions.  This  ef- 
fect is  greatest  along  the  southern  coast  of  Ecuador. 

El  Nino  occurs  periodically  every  six  or  seven  years.  Starting  in 
late  December,  a  change  in  atmospheric  pressure  shifts  ocean  cur- 
rents so  that  warm  waters  come  closer  to  shore  and  displace  the  cold 
waters.  During  this  time,  air  and  water  temperatures,  tides,  sea 
levels  and  wave  heights,  and  relative  humidity  all  are  higher  than 
usual.  These  conditions  produce  heavy  rainfall  that  generally  lasts 
until  May  in  an  area  that  normally  experiences  nothing  more  than 
a  drizzle.  The  resulting  flooding  and  landslides  can  be  devastating. 

When  the  Peruvian  Current  is  dominant,  the  amount  of  precipi- 
tation along  the  coast  varies  from  north  to  south,  with  levels  rang- 
ing from  300  centimeters  to  30  centimeters,  respectively.  Two  rainy 
seasons  in  the  northernmost  part  of  the  coast  become  a  single  season 
(December  through  June)  not  far  south.  Near  Esmeraldas,  aver- 
age annual  rainfall  is  250  centimeters.  The  rainy  season  shortens 
farther  south,  lasting  only  from  January  to  May  at  Guayaquil.  Very 
little  rainfall  occurs  on  the  end  of  the  Santa  Elena  Peninsula  west 
of  Guayaquil.  Arid  conditions  prevail  on  the  border  with  Peru  south 
of  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil. 

Separated  from  the  effects  of  ocean  currents  by  the  Cordi- 
llera Costanera,  the  Costa  Interna  has  a  hot  and  humid  climate. 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Temperatures  can  surpass  26°C,  and  the  vegetation  and  cloud  cover 
tend  to  retain  and  augment  the  heat.  Rain  is  constant  during  the 
winter  months  of  December  through  May,  with  the  heaviest  rain- 
fall occurring  in  February  and  March. 

Temperatures  in  the  Sierra  do  not  vary  greatly  on  a  seasonal 
basis;  the  hottest  month  averages  16°C  and  the  coolest  month,  13°C 
in  the  upper  elevations.  Diurnal  temperatures,  however,  vary  dra- 
matically, from  cold  mornings  to  hot  afternoons.  The  almost  ver- 
tical sun  and  the  rarified  air  in  the  higher  Sierra  region  allow  the 
land  to  warm  quickly  during  the  day  and  lose  heat  quickly  at  night. 
Mornings  typically  are  bright  and  sunny,  whereas  afternoons  often 
are  cloudy  and  rainy.  In  general,  rainfall  amounts  are  highest  on 
exposed  locations  at  lower  altitudes.  Rain  also  can  vary  on  a  local 
basis.  Sheltered  valleys  normally  receive  50  centimeters  per  year, 
whereas  annual  rainfall  is  1 50  centimeters  in  Quito  and  can  reach 
250  centimeters  on  exposed  slopes  that  catch  rain-bearing  winds. 
On  a  seasonal  basis,  the  driest  months  are  June  through  September. 

Climate  in  the  Sierra  is  divided  into  levels  based  on  altitude. 
The  tropical  level — 400  to  1,800  meters — has  temperatures  rang- 
ing from  20 °C  to  25°C  and  heavy  precipitation.  The  subtropical 
level— 1,800  to  2,500  meters— has  temperatures  from  15°C  to  20°C 
and  moderate  precipitation.  The  temperate  level — 2,500  to  3,200 
meters — has  a  year-round  temperature  in  the  range  of  10°C  to  15°C 
and  an  annual  rainfall  of  100  centimeters.  The  temperate  level  ex- 
periences rainstorms,  hailstorms,  and  fog.  Winter,  or  the  rainy  sea- 
son, lasts  from  January  through  June,  and  the  dry  season,  or 
summer,  from  July  through  December.  Most  rain  falls  in  April. 
There  also  is  a  short  rainy  period  in  early  October  caused  by 
moisture  penetrating  the  Sierra  from  the  Oriente.  Quito  and  most 
other  populated  areas  in  the  Sierra  are  located  at  this  temperate  level. 
The  cold  level  extends  from  the  temperate  zone  to  4,650  meters. 
Here,  average  temperatures  are  3°C  to  9°C,  and  the  precipitation 
often  appears  in  the  form  of  rain,  hail,  and  thick  fog.  Above  4,650 
meters  is  the  frozen  level,  where  peaks  are  constantly  capped  with 
snow  and  ice,  and  temperatures  range  from  below  zero  to  3°C. 
Precipitation  frequently  is  in  the  form  of  snow,  fog,  and  rain. 

The  Eastern  lowlands  in  the  Oriente  experience  an  equatorial 
climate.  Rainfall  is  abundant,  especially  in  the  Andean  piedmont, 
sometimes  exceeding  500  centimeters  per  year.  Temperatures  aver- 
age 25°C  in  the  western  parts  of  this  region.  The  jungle-covered 
plains  of  the  Eastern  lowlands  register  high  levels  of  rainfall  and 
temperatures  surpassing  28°C. 

Being  located  on  the  equator,  the  Galapagos  Islands  would  have 
an  equatorial  climate  were  it  not  for  the  modifying  effects  of  the 
Peruvian  Current.  Instead,  climate  on  the  islands  follows  a  pattern 


61 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


900 


600        300         0  300 
POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


900 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Demografta,  Ecuador:  Es- 
timaciones  y  Proyecciones  de  Poblacion,  1950-2000,  Quito,  1984,  78-83. 


Figure  4.  Projected  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1990 


more  like  that  of  the  Sierra  than  the  Costa.  At  sea  level,  the  land 
is  desertlike  with  temperatures  of  21°C.  The  eight  summer  months 
experience  no  precipitation,  whereas  the  winter  months  of  Janu- 
ary through  April  have  some  fog  and  drizzle.  Above  sea  level  to 
an  altitude  of  450  meters,  the  islands  have  a  mixture  of  tropical, 
subtropical,  and  temperate  climates.  In  general,  temperatures  are 
around  17°C.  There  is  constant  fog  and  drizzle  in  the  summer  and 
rain  in  the  winter.  The  cold  level  above  450  meters  has  tempera- 
tures below  14°C. 

Population 

The  government  conducted  national  censuses  in  1950,  1962, 
1974,  and  1982  and  scheduled  another  for  1990.  In  the  late  1980s, 
estimates  of  total  population  by  1990  ranged  from  10.8  to  11  mil- 
lion (see  fig.  4).  The  annual  growth  rate  was  an  estimated  2.3  to 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


PER  1,000  POPULATION 
140 


50-55     55-60     60-65     65-70     70-75     75-80     80-85     85-90     90-95  95-2000 


%      Crude  Death  Rate 

Crude  Birth  Rate 

 0       Infant  Mortality  Rate 

Total  Growth  Rate 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Demografla,  Ecuador:  Es- 
timaciones y  Proyecciones  de  Poblacion,  1950-2000,  Quito,  1984,  48,  62. 

Figure  5.  Selected  Demographic   Indicators,    at  Five- Year  Intervals, 
1950-2000 


2.8  percent.  Population  growth  rates  had  been  high  since  the  onset 
of  modern  census-taking,  with  an  increase  of  3.2  percent  annually 
in  the  1960s  and  3.0  percent  in  the  1970s.  Demographers  ex- 
pected the  rate  to  decline  to  approximately  2.4  percent  by  the  end 
of  the  century.  Their  estimates  of  total  population  in  2000  ranged 
from  13.6  to  14.2  million,  with  the  lower  figure  more  commonly 
accepted. 

Despite  the  declining  growth  rate,  a  variety  of  indicators  from 
the  1980s  showed  the  country  to  be  in  the  midst  of  a  population 
explosion  that  was  likely  to  continue  beyond  the  year  2000  (see 
fig.  5).  Between  the  early  1950s  and  the  mid-1980s,  the  crude  death 
rate  fell  by  nearly  60  percent.  The  infant  mortality  rate,  which 
dropped  by  nearly  half  to  approximately  63  per  1,000  live  births 
in  1985,  accounted  for  most  of  the  decline.  The  crude  birth  rate 
dropped  from  47  to  37  per  1 ,000  population  during  the  same  time; 


63 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


50-55     55-60     60-65     65-70     70-75     75-80     80-85     85-90     90-95  95-2000 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Demograffa,  Ecuador:  Es- 
timaciones  y  Proyecciones  de  Poblacion,  1950-2000,  Quito,  1984,  48,  62. 


Figure  6.  Life  Expectancy  at  Birth,  by  Five- Year  Intervals,  1950-2000 

given  the  relative  youthfulness  of  the  population,  however,  growth 
rates  could  be  expected  to  remain  high  for  decades.  Only  Bolivia 
had  a  higher  population  birth  rate  among  South  American  coun- 
tries. Life  expectancy  increased  by  more  than  25  percent  between 
the  1950s  and  the  mid-1980s  (see  fig.  6). 

The  total  fertility  rate  (the  number  of  children  a  woman  could 
expect  to  bear  during  her  life)  dropped  by  an  estimated  one-third 
between  1950  and  1990  (see  fig.  7).  Socioeconomic  background 
had  a  significant  impact  on  the  rate;  the  mean  by  region  or  ethnic 
group  varied  by  as  much  as  3.5  children  per  woman.  Estimates 
of  the  rate  by  the  year  2000  ranged  from  3.6  to  4.3  children  per 
woman. 

The  high  rate  of  population  growth  generated  pressure  on  the 
country's  limited  resources.  Even  assuming  only  moderate  growth 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


50-55      55-60      60-65      65-70      70-75      75-80      80-85      85-90  95-2000 


Total  Fertility  Rate 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Demografia,  Ecuador:  Esti- 
mations y  Proyecciones  de  Poblation,  1950-2000,  Quito,  1984,  48,  62. 


Figure  7.  Total  Fertility  Rate,  at  Five-Year  Intervals,  1950-2000 

to  the  end  of  the  century,  the  primary  and  secondary  schools'  budget 
would  have  to  rise  to  70  percent  over  that  of  1980  to  keep  pace 
with  population.  Moreover,  more  than  120,000  new  jobs  would 
be  required  each  year  to  maintain  employment  levels  of  the  early 
1980s. 

Increasingly  aware  of  the  high  costs  of  continued  population 
growth,  the  government  in  the  1970s  accepted  in  principle  the  need 
for  family  planning  and  control  of  child  spacing  and  attempted  to 
incorporate  demographic  variables  into  national  economic  plan- 
ning. Nonetheless,  maternal  and  child  health  programs  were  often 
ineffective.  A  contraceptive  practices  survey  in  1982  found  that  65 
percent  of  the  women  not  using  contraceptives  nevertheless  wanted 
to  participate  in  some  form  of  family  planning  and  would  have 


65 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


220 


Sierra  Costa  Oriente 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ecuador,  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadistica  y  Censos, 
IV  Censo  Nacional  de  Poblaciony  III  de  Vivienda,  1982 — Resumen  Nacional:  Breve  Andli- 
sis  de  los  Resultados  Definitivos,  Quito,  1985,  31. 

Figure  8.  Population  Distribution  by  Region,  Census  Years,  1950-82 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

participated  in  family  planning  if  a  program  were  available.  Given 
continued  high  birth  rates,  many  demographers  doubted  govern- 
ment estimates  that  40  percent  of  women  of  childbearing  age  were 
using  contraceptives  in  the  mid-1980s. 

Migration  and  Urbanization 

For  most  of  Ecuador's  history,  the  majority  of  the  population 
lived  in  the  Sierra.  Most  of  the  Sierra  population  was  clustered 
in  the  more  habitable  hoy  as.  For  example,  the  capital  city,  Quito, 
is  located  in  a  hoya  at  the  foot  of  Mount  Pichincha  (see  Geogra- 
phy, this  ch.). 

From  1950  to  1974,  however,  large  numbers  of  land-poor  Sierra 
peasants  migrated  to  the  Costa;  as  a  result,  the  Costa  grew  substan- 
tially faster  than  the  nation  as  a  whole  (see  table  2,  Appendix). 
By  the  mid-1970s,  population  figures  for  the  Sierra  and  the  Costa 
were  roughly  similar.  The  Costa  expanded  only  at  roughly  the  na- 
tional average  during  the  1974-82  intercensal  period.  Nonetheless, 
by  1982  the  Costa  had  become  the  most  populated  region  in  the 
country  (see  fig.  8). 

Migration  (coupled  with  the  high  birth  rate)  transformed  the 
country  in  the  twentieth  century.  Costenos  from  the  central  region 
often  migrated  to  Guayaquil  and  its  hinterland  following  declines 
in  export  crop  production.  Serranos  (residents  of  the  Sierra)  were 
often  first  "pulled"  by  the  expanding  coastal  economy  and  then 
"pushed"  by  population  pressure,  agrarian  reform,  and  modern- 
ization. The  cocoa-producing  areas  of  Guayas  and  El  Oro  pro- 
vinces— strategically  located  for  those  escaping  the  1960s  drought 
in  Loja  Province — became  the  most  common  destinations  for  serranos 
(see  fig.  9). 

The  cocoa  boom  of  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  cen- 
turies also  had  initiated  a  limited  pattern  of  immigration  to  the 
Costa.  Immigrants  from  Europe  and  Latin  America  generally  ar- 
rived with  capital  to  exploit  the  lucrative  Costa  commercial  op- 
portunities. Significant  numbers  of  Lebanese,  referred  to  locally 
as  turcos  or  arabes,  also  moved  to  Guayaquil  and  gained  consider- 
able influence  in  coastal  commerce  and  local  politics.  The  Lebanese 
retained  their  ethnic  identity  and  married  within  their  own  com- 
munity, and  both  their  distinctiveness  and  their  level  of  prosper- 
ity set  them  apart  and  made  them  the  target  of  prejudice. 

Two  distinct  migration  waves  to  the  Oriente  occurred  in  the  twen- 
tieth century.  In  the  early  1900s,  some  serranos  trekked  to  the  Oriente 
to  pan  gold  and  stayed  to  settle  on  the  east  slopes  of  the  Andes. 
These  migrants  acquired  land  from  the  indigenous  population  and 


67 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  Statistisches  Bundesamt, 
Ldnderbericht  Ecuador,  1988,  Wiesbaden,  1988,  8. 

Figure  9.  Population  Density,  1986 

set  up  small,  largely  subsistence-oriented  farming  communities. 
Beginning  in  the  1950s,  large  numbers  of  serranos  arrived  in  search 
of  available  land;  most  simply  went  to  the  Oriente  province  most 
accessible  to  their  place  of  origin.  Between  1950  and  1982,  the 
Oriente  experienced  a  more  than  fivefold  population  increase.  The 
growth  rate  averaged  approximately  5.6  percent  annually,  nearly 
double  that  of  the  nation  as  a  whole.  By  the  mid-1970s,  migrants 
constituted  nearly  half  the  region's  residents. 

Beginning  in  the  1950s,  large  numbers  of  Ecuadorians  also  mi- 
grated from  the  countryside  to  the  cities — a  trend  apparent  in  both 
the  Costa  and  the  Sierra.  This  migration  changed  life  not  only  in 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  nation's  two  largest  cities,  Guayaquil  and  Quito,  but  also  in 
intermediate -sized  cities. 

Both  Guayaquil  and  Quito  reflected  their  different  histories,  their 
distinctive  regional  settings,  and  their  roles  in  contemporary  na- 
tional politics  and  economic  development.  Guayaquil  was  founded 
as  a  commercial  link  to  Spain  (see  Spanish  Colonial  Era,  ch.  1). 
The  city's  contemporary  configuration  began  to  take  form  with 
the  beginning  of  cocoa  production  in  the  eighteenth  century.  Al- 
ways tied  to  international  markets,  Guayaquil's  development  re- 
flected the  perturbations  of  whatever  export  crop  was  currently 
profitable.  From  the  colonial  era  onward,  Quito  developed  prin- 
cipally as  an  administrative  center.  As  the  capital  city,  Quito 
represented  the  epitome  of  the  serrano  elite's  Hispanic  values. 

From  1950  to  1982,  the  population  of  Guayaquil  and  Quito  ex- 
panded at  rates  substantially  above  the  national  average.  Guaya- 
quil's rate  of  growth  was  highest  in  the  1950s — a  response  to  the 
rise  in  banana  cultivation  on  the  coast.  Ecuador's  oil  boom  of  the 
1970s  generated  rapid  population  growth  in  Quito  during  that  de- 
cade, a  trend  that  continued  into  the  early  1980s.  By  1982  Guaya- 
quil's population  stood  at  approximately  1.2  million  residents  and 
Quito's  at  roughly  870,000  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  Together,  they 
represented  60  percent  of  the  urban  population. 

Both  cities  faced  a  number  of  common  problems  resulting  from 
the  tremendous  influx  of  migrants.  The  numbers  of  the  poor  em- 
ployed in  marginal  sectors  and  occupations  increased  to  the  point 
that  they  defeated  the  ability  of  Guayaquil  and  Quito  governments 
to  provide  basic  services  and  employment.  Each  city  had  a  central 
core  that  was  ringed  with  densely  populated  tenement  slums.  Much 
of  the  population  of  these  slums  consisted  of  relatively  recent 
migrants. 

Another  phenomenon  affecting  Guayaquil  and  Quito  was  the 
emergence  of  large  squatter  settlements  on  previously  unoccupied 
marginal  lands.  The  establishment  of  suburbio  (the  collective  name 
for  squatter  settlements)  in  the  marshy  areas  southwest  of  Guaya- 
quil proper  began  in  the  1960s;  by  the  early  1980s,  suburbio  had 
pushed  into  the  Guayas  River  estuary  and  encompassed  half  of  the 
metropolitan  population.  Although  the  older  sections  of  suburbio  had 
reasonably  well-provisioned  water  lines,  sewage  disposal,  and  streets, 
newer  communities  lacked  basic  services.  Those  who  had  settled  in 
the  estuary  system  faced  the  added  problem  of  persuading  municipal 
authorities  to  provide  landfill  and  to  deal  with  periodic  flooding. 
Quito  municipal  authorities  tried  to  prevent  the  spread  of  squatter 
settlements  up  the  mountainsides  to  the  west  of  the  city  by  strictly 
limiting  the  provision  of  water  above  certain  altitudes.  In  addition, 


69 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  government  squelched  numerous  attempts  by  squatters  to  take 
over  private  or  public  lands.  Despite  these  actions,  however,  set- 
tlements expanded  throughout  the  1970s  and  represented  between 
10  and  15  percent  of  Quito's  population  by  the  mid-1980s. 

In  contrast  to  much  of  Latin  America,  Ecuador's  intermediate- 
sized  cities  experienced  very  high  rates  of  growth  after  1950.  This 
was  especially  the  case  in  the  Costa,  where  the  annual  growth  rate 
of  intermediate-sized  cities  dwarfed  even  that  of  Guayaquil  (see 
table  4,  Appendix).  Expansion  of  second-tier  cities  in  the  Costa 
resulted  in  part  from  export  growth.  In  the  1950s  and  early  1960s, 
for  example,  the  spread  of  banana  cultivation  and  the  increasing 
need  for  port  facilities  spurred  the  growth  of  cities  like  Santo  Do- 
mingo, Quevedo,  Esmeraldas,  and  Machala.  In  the  1970s  and  early 
1980s,  Santo  Domingo  continued  to  grow  as  African  palm  planta- 
tions spread  throughout  its  hinterland.  Other  coastal  cities  expanded 
in  response  to  shrimp  raising,  fishing  (and  related  industries),  or 
tourism. 

In  general,  mid-sized  cities  in  the  Sierra  were  less  dynamic  than 
their  Costa  counterparts.  From  the  mid-1950s  to  the  early  1980s, 
only  Cuenca — Ecuador's  third  largest  city — achieved  growth  rates 
roughly  comparable  to  that  of  Quito  (see  fig.  1).  Agrarian  reform 
and  the  reduction  of  the  resident  labor  force  on  haciendas  fostered 
expansion  primarily  of  intermediate- sized  cities  in  the  Sierra.  When 
employment  opportunities  existed,  mid-sized  cities  drew  migrants 
because  they  were  closer  to  home,  less  disruptive  to  ties  with  the 
countryside,  and  less  threatening  than  Guayaquil  or  Quito. 

Social  Classes 
Elite 

Ecuador's  elite,  in  the  late  1980s,  included  Sierra  latifundistas 
(large  landowners),  Costa  agro-exporters,  financiers,  and  indus- 
trialists. Commercial  and  industrial  interests  overlapped  with  those 
of  agriculture,  as  families  in  finance  and  industry  often  maintained 
at  least  a  token  interest  in  agriculture.  Indeed,  the  purchase  of  land 
with  the  profits  of  commerce  had  long  been  considered  a  critical 
step  in  improving  a  family's  standing.  In  addition  to  this  overlap, 
there  were  strong  intragroup  ties  among  the  elite;  kinship  and  mar- 
riage contributed  to  cohesion.  Newly  rich  families  tried  to  turn  their 
economic  success  into  social  capital  by  marrying  into  older,  estab- 
lished families. 

Historically,  the  basis  of  class  in  Ecuador  lay  in  the  control  of 
land  and  the  labor  of  those  who  lived  on  it.  The  Spanish  con- 
quistadors had  found  the  region  devoid  of  valuable  minerals  and 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  ready  wealth  mining  provided,  so  the  combination  of  land  and 
Indians  welded  together  in  vast  haciendas  formed  the  basis  of  the 
colonial  economy.  The  few  who  held  land  constituted  a  rural  oli- 
garchy. The  rest  of  society  depended  on  this  pivotal  group,  in 
varying  degrees,  for  livelihood,  political  participation,  and  social 
identity.  Hacienda  owners  spent  much  of  their  time  in  their  urban 
residences;  cities  existed  principally  to  serve  their  wants.  The  small, 
ill-defined  middle  levels  of  urban  professionals  found  employment 
serving  the  commercial  and  administrative  needs  of  the  hacienda. 
Artisans  likewise  produced  mainly  for  hacendados. 

The  hacienda  with  its  resident  labor  force  was  the  center  of  the 
Sierra  elite  family's  influence.  The  landowner's  power  within  his 
domain  was  nearly  absolute.  Ideally,  the  hacendado  exercised  this 
power  beneficently,  to  protect  his  followers  and  dependents.  What- 
ever his  inclination,  everything  from  private  morality  to  public  re- 
ligious observances  fell  within  his  purview.  He  settled  land  disputes 
among  his  resident  peons,  arranged  marriages,  and  dispensed 
favors. 

The  Costa  elite's  lifestyle,  values,  and  economic  interests  differed 
from  its  Sierra  counterpart.  Trade  grew  on  the  coast  in  response 
to  the  impetus  of  export  agriculture.  As  a  result,  the  elite  on  the 
coast  had  ties  to  other  Latin  American  seaports  and  links  with  world 
commerce. 

The  cleavage  between  the  two  elite  groups,  in  evidence  at  in- 
dependence, continued  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in  Ecuadorian  poli- 
tics in  the  1980s  (see  Return  to  Democratic  Rule,  1979-84,  ch.  1; 
Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4).  Governments  parceled  out  political 
offices  between  the  two  groups,  and  region  of  origin  was  a  critical 
factor  in  an  individual's  political  career.  Economic  developments 
since  the  1950s  reinforced  the  dichotomies  between  the  Costa  and 
Sierra.  The  banana  boom  of  the  1950s  and  1960s  revived  the  Costa 
cocoa  elite  and  funneled  money  to  Guayaquil;  in  contrast,  the  oil 
boom  of  the  1970s  benefited  Quito. 

Agrarian  organization  provided  the  model  for  other  social  insti- 
tutions and  the  exercise  of  authority  in  general.  Social  rank  and 
power,  in  the  elite  view,  were  a  natural  part  of  the  social  order. 
Individuals  were  ranked  on  the  basis  of  birth,  race,  wealth,  breed- 
ing, and  education.  The  elite  (and  middle  class)  often  described 
itself  as  la  gente  buena  (the  good  people)  or  la  gente  decente  (the  respec- 
table people),  contending  that  it  had  sufficient  breeding,  intelli- 
gence, and  culture  to  rule  others.  The  subordination  of  workers, 
peasants,  servants,  and  all  Indians  was  an  essential  part  of  this 
scheme.  In  the  elite  view,  gains  achieved  by  subordinates  came 
not  as  their  natural  right  but  through  the  beneficence  of  their  betters. 


71 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Land  reform  legislation  in  the  1960s  and  1970s  left  elite  hege- 
mony in  agriculture  and  landholding  largely  unscathed.  For  one 
thing,  Costa  and  Sierra  landholders  mounted  an  intense  effort  to 
oppose  those  elements  of  agricultural  reform  that  threatened  their 
diverse  interests.  For  another,  the  laws  were  designed  to  benefit 
resident  agricultural  laborers,  but  on  most  of  the  coast  and  on  the 
more  advanced  haciendas  of  the  northern  and  central  Sierra,  land- 
owners had  already  begun  switching  to  wage  labor,  so  there  were 
few  peons  and  sharecroppers  to  receive  expropriated  land.  Instead, 
the  legislation  merely  freed  the  owners  from  their  customary  ob- 
ligations to  resident  laborers.  Land  reform  eliminated  the  pater- 
nal obligations  landowners  had  previously  assigned  toward  their 
workers. 

The  landed  elite  benefited  in  a  number  of  others  ways  as  well. 
The  price  paid  in  compensation  for  expropriated  private  land  was 
often  inflated  well  above  market  value.  Well-connected  landlords 
usually  fared  better  in  the  courts  than  their  less-privileged  tenants. 
Those  peasants  who  received  land  rarely  became  self-supporting 
and  had  to  supplement  their  subsistence  plots  with  seasonal  wage 
labor  elsewhere.  Large  landowners  gained  a  supply  of  temporary 
wage  laborers  with  limited  political  ability  to  make  demands  be- 
yond a  single  season's  work.  . 

Middle  Class 

Ecuador's  diverse  middle  class  was  concentrated  in  cities  and 
larger  towns.  A  minute,  ill-defined  group  during  most  of  the  coun- 
try's history,  its  numbers  grew  in  the  twentieth  century.  In  the  late 
1970s,  estimates  based  on  income  indicated  that  roughly  20  per- 
cent of  the  population  was  middle  class.  Economic  expansion  in- 
creased the  opportunities  available  to  the  able  and  ambitious.  The 
rapid  increase  in  government  employment  contributed  both  to  the 
size  of  the  middle  class  in  absolute  numbers  and  to  the  group's 
political  awareness.  The  rise  of  a  middle  class  whose  interests  were 
not  those  of  the  rural  oligarchy  transformed  national  politics. 

Businessmen,  professionals,  clerical  employees,  mid-level  bureau- 
crats and  managers,  army  officers,  and  teachers  comprised  the  mid- 
dle levels  of  society.  They  constituted  a  diverse  group,  often  poorly 
defined  in  terms  of  both  self-identity  and  criteria  for  membership. 
At  a  minimum,  an  individual  had  attained  a  certain  level  of  edu- 
cation (at  least  a  secondary  school  degree),  practiced  an  occupa- 
tion that  did  not  require  manual  labor,  and  manifested  proper 
manners  and  dress  to  be  considered  middle  class. 

The  upper  echelons  frequently  identified  with  and  emulated  the 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


elite.  By  contrast,  the  lower  levels  of  the  middle  class  often  made 
common  cause  with  the  more  prosperous  segments  of  the  working 
class.  The  cleavage  between  these  two  groups — a  prosperous,  upper- 
middle  class  oriented  toward  the  elite  and  a  less  economically  se- 
cure lower  group  often  allied  with  the  more  privileged  sectors  of 
the  working  class — was  reflected  in  lifestyle,  patterns  of  associa- 
tion, and  political  loyalties. 

In  addition  to  the  economic  division,  an  ethnic  component 
emerged  in  the  ranking  of  the  various  levels  of  the  middle  class. 
In  general,  individuals  became  more  "white"  and  less  obviously 
mestizo  farther  up  the  social  ladder.  In  addition,  the  middle  class 
was  ethnically  more  diverse  than  other  groups.  Over  the  years,  im- 
migrants from  southern  Europe,  the  Middle  East,  and  elsewhere 
in  Latin  America  arrived  to  take  advantage  of  expanding  economic 
opportunities  on  the  Costa.  These  immigrants  formed  the  core  of 
Ecuador's  commercial  interests. 

Peasants 

Until  the  early  1950s,  peasant  families  formed  the  vast  majority 
of  the  populace.  Historically,  these  families  were  isolated  from  na- 
tional society,  a  pattern  reinforced  by  the  nature  of  traditional  rural 
social  life.  Social  arrangements  aimed  at  self-defense  limited  the 
intrusions  of  outsiders.  The  individual  "nested"  within  the  pro- 
tective layers  of  family,  kin,  neighborhood,  and  village. 

Peasant  links  to  city,  region,  and  nation  were  mediated  through 
powerful  outsiders,  such  as  foremen,  landowners,  merchants,  priests, 
or  law  enforcement  officials.  Such  relations  were  typically  exploita- 
tive to  the  peasant,  but  they  were  also  multistranded.  However  un- 
even the  exchange,  the  two  parties  were  linked  by  more  than  just 
the  naked  self-interest  of  the  powerful. 

At  the  center  of  the  peasant  family's  life  and  livelihood  stood 
access  to  land.  Landholding  not  only  assured  the  family  subsis- 
tence, but  also  defined  its  status  within  the  community.  Adult  par- 
ticipation in  village  social  life  demanded  land;  nonholders  remained 
peripheral  to  the  most  significant  aspects  of  the  community's  so- 
cial life,  such  as  participation  in  justice. 

Elite  control  over  most  land,  however,  left  those  at  the  bottom 
of  the  social  pyramid  with  limited  options  and  created  the  classic 
latifundio-minifundio  (small  landholding)  complex.  Large  landhold- 
ers monopolized  the  most  desirable  holdings  and  left  marginal 
lands  to  peasants.  Sierra  haciendas  extended  from  valley  floor  to 
mountain  crest.  The  fertile  valley  bottoms  were  assigned  to  haci- 
enda production  whereas  the  steeper  lands  went  to  peons.  Costa 


73 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


plantation  owners  reached  the  same  end  by  controlling  riverine  land 
with  ready  access  to  markets. 

Historically,  the  traditional  Sierra  hacienda  engaged  in  mixed 
livestock  and  crop  production  and  relied  on  a  "captive"  labor  force. 
On  the  eve  of  land  reform  in  the  1960s,  about  two-thirds  of  all  farm- 
ers owned  some  land,  but  still  remained  dependent  to  varying 
degrees  on  haciendas.  Haciendas  regulated  access  to  land  mainly 
through  the  huasipungo  system.  The  huasipunguero  or  concierto  peon 
was  a  resident  laborer  who  received  a  plot  of  land  in  return  for 
labor  on  the  hacienda  and  domestic  service  in  the  landlord's  house- 
hold. Although  precise  terms  of  tenure  varied  from  valley  to  val- 
ley and  from  time  to  time,  they  were  typically  disadvantageous  to 
the  peon.  The  huasipunguero  usually  had  to  provide  four  days  of  work 
per  week  to  the  hacienda  as  well  as  domestic  service — an  especially 
onerous  obligation  that  required  both  husband  and  wife  to  work 
full  time  at  hacienda  maintenance  for  a  specified  period.  Finally, 
peons  had  to  participate  in  collective  work  parties  during  planting 
and  harvesting. 

A  variety  of  subsidiary  arrangements  provided  an  auxiliary  sup- 
ply of  laborers.  Peasants  from  neighboring  free  communities  often 
negotiated  for  the  use  of  hacienda  firewood,  water,  and  pastures. 
These  peasants,  known  as yanaperos,  typically  worked  one  or  two 
days  per  month  and  helped  out  at  planting  and  harvest  times.  Other 
peasants  worked  hacienda  lands  through  some  type  of  sharecrop- 
ping  arrangement.  Some  casual  wage  laborers  or  skilled  specialists 
were  employed  as  production  dictated,  but  these  constituted  a  very 
minor  part  of  the  hacienda's  total  labor  force. 

The  classic  huasipungo  system  continued  in  use  in  the  1960s  in 
relatively  remote  but  well-populated  valleys.  Near  towns,  where 
other  employment  was  available,  smaller  holdings  and  more  diverse 
tenure  arrangements  typically  prevailed.  Merchants  and  other 
townsmen  frequently  owned  small  parcels  of  land,  which  peasants 
worked  through  sharecropping  agreements.  Typically,  the  share- 
cropper had  lands  of  his  own  nearby;  he  provided  labor,  draft 
animals,  tools,  seed,  and  fertilizer.  The  landowner  and  sharecropper 
split  the  harvest. 

Landowners  who  wished  to  exploit  the  growing  urban  market 
(especially  for  dairy  products)  found  it  more  profitable  to  consoli- 
date their  holdings  and  sell  the  less  desirable  plots  to  their  peons. 
This  process  of  transferring  marginal  hacienda  land  to  peasants 
was  most  evident  in  Pichincha,  Imbabura,  and  Carchi  provinces. 
Elsewhere  (in  Chimborazo,  for  example)  landlords  simply  evicted 
peons  and  refused  to  compensate  them,  treatment  that  fueled  peas- 
ant unionization  drives. 


74 


A  man  in  Esmeraldas  Province 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation  (Juan  Garcia) 


A  hostel  for  migrant 
workers  in  Guayaquil 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Foundation  (Miguel  Sayago) 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Sharecropping  and  wage  labor  arrangements  historically  pre- 
vailed on  the  export-oriented  Costa  plantations.  In  the  late  nine- 
teenth and  early  twentieth  centuries,  a  cocoa  boom  occurred  in  the 
Costa.  Sharecroppers  on  cocoa  plantations  cultivated  the  crop  in 
exchange  for  advances  on  the  harvest.  Plantation  owners  controlled 
most  marketing  channels;  their  economic  clout  came  not  merely 
from  landholding,  but  because  rental  agreements  typically  obliged 
the  sharecropper  to  sell  at  terms  set  by  the  landlord. 

Landlords'  effective  control  over  sharecroppers  declined  following 
the  1922  blight  of  the  cocoa  crop.  Sharecroppers  either  purchased 
their  plots,  simply  assumed  control  of  them,  changed  the  terms  of 
their  rental  agreements,  or  they  moved  onto  unoccupied  land.  As 
cocoa  prices  rose  in  the  1950s,  however,  landowners  attempted  to 
reinstate  their  control.  Tenants  responded  with  efforts  to  unionize 
and,  by  the  early  1960s,  with  land  invasions  and  rent  strikes.  Work- 
ers on  banana  plantations,  which  developed  in  the  1950s  employ- 
ing wage  labor,  also  tried  to  unionize. 

Land  reform  legislation  in  the  1960s  and  the  1970s  aimed  at 
eliminating  minifundio  plots  under  4.8  hectares  and  subjected  ab- 
sentee landholders  to  the  threat  of  expropriation.  The  threat 
prompted  some  landlords  to  sell  off  at  least  a  portion  of  their  hold- 
ings; the  main  beneficiaries  were  peasants  who  could  muster  suffi- 
cient resources  to  purchase  land.  Land  reform  also  eliminated  the 
various  demands  for  time  that  landlords  had  placed  on  peasants. 
By  1979,  however,  when  most  expropriations  were  completed,  less 
than  20  percent  of  peasant  families  and  15  percent  of  agricultural 
land  had  been  affected  by  agrarian  reform.  The  legislation  did  lit- 
tle to  change  the  structure  of  landholding,  which  remained  roughly 
as  concentrated  in  the  mid-1970s  as  it  had  been  in  the  mid-1950s 
(see  table  5,  Appendix).  Nearly  350,000  farms  contained  less  than 
five  hectares — the  minimum  experts  considered  necessary  to  sup- 
port a  family.  Almost  150,000  plots  were  less  than  one  hectare. 

The  degree  of  land  fragmentation  in  the  Sierra  added  to  the 
problems  of  poorer  farmers.  Andeans  had  long  preferred  some  dis- 
persion of  their  lands  in  order  to  take  advantage  of  the  diversity 
in  microclimates  in  the  region  and  to  limit  the  risks  to  any  given 
field.  A  family  might  have  as  many  as  twenty  to  thirty  small  fields 
scattered  around  a  village.  In  addition  to  the  poor  farmers,  there 
were  more  than  220,000  landless  laborers  whose  situation  was  even 
more  tenuous. 

For  the  mass  of  small  producers,  agrarian  reform  simply  increased 
the  amount  of  time  available  to  work  on  their  own  holdings.  Most 
had  so  little  land,  however,  that  their  own  farms  could  hardly  ab- 
sorb the  added  labor.  Some  peasants,  especially  in  the  northern 


76 


Crowds  line  the  street  at  the  main  market  in  Guayaquil 

Courtesy  World  Bank 


11 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Sierra  around  Otavalo,  supplemented  their  farming  with  profit- 
able crafts  production.  Other  families  produced  items  such  as  bricks 
and  tiles  for  which  there  was  a  local  market.  In  these  instances, 
then,  additional  time  afforded  a  measure  of  prosperity.  A  survey 
of  Sierra  families  in  the  early  1980s  found,  however,  that  fewer 
than  1 0  percent  earned  any  of  their  income  from  traditional  rural 
crafts.  Instead,  families  with  sufficient  resources  might  purchase 
a  small  truck  and  market  agricultural  products. 

The  mass  of  small  farmers  were  not  so  fortunate;  those  who  did 
not  have  any  plots  to  work  or  whose  plots  were  too  small  to  pro- 
vide subsistence  had  to  seek  wage  labor,  since  land  reform  regula- 
tions had  deprived  them  of  the  option  of  working  on  haciendas  as 
peons  or  sharecroppers.  By  the  mid-1970s,  wages,  not  agricultural 
products,  had  become  the  largest  portion  of  small  farmers'  income. 
As  nonagricultural  employment  expanded  during  the  oil  boom, 
peasant  laborers  increasingly  chose  urban  employment  over  agricul- 
tural work.  Fully  one-third  of  all  rural  Sierra  families  surveyed  in 
the  early  1980s  had  at  least  one  member  working  away  from  the 
family  landholdings.  Peasant  laborers  had  enjoyed  a  measure  of 
well-being  during  the  economic  growth  of  the  1970s.  Both  the  con- 
struction and  the  service  sectors  expanded  apace  and  cushioned 
land-poor  peasants.  The  economic  downturn  that  occurred  in  the 
1980s,  however,  hit  wage  earners  particularly  hard  and  severely 
limited  employment  opportunities. 

In  the  late  1970s,  analysts  estimated  that  between  370,000  and 
570,000  rural  Ecuadorian  families  lived  in  poverty.  The  worst  levels 
of  Sierra  poverty  were  found  in  Chimborazo  Province.  Poverty  in 
the  Sierra  correlated  with  altitude:  the  higher  the  family's  hold- 
ings, the  more  limited  its  production  options  and  the  greater  its 
poverty.  Access  to  modern  transportation  was  a  main  determinant 
of  farm  income  in  the  Costa.  The  poorest  coastal  areas  were  found 
in  isolated  settlements,  fishing  towns,  and  villages  in  Esmeraldas 
Province. 

The  emergence  of  crafts  as  a  major  component  in  some  peasant 
families'  livelihood  created  the  potential  for  intergenerational  con- 
flict. Children  learned  new  production  techniques  in  school  that 
sometimes  increased  their  own  earning  power  beyond  that  of  their 
parents.  As  some  family  members  sought  wage  labor  farther  from 
home,  those  remaining  relied  more  heavily  on  nonfamily  wage 
laborers  to  assist  with  farming.  Cooperative  work  exchanges  de- 
clined in  favor  of  hired  casual  labor. 

The  increased  pressure  on  land  also  sharpened  disputes  about 
inheritance  and  divisions  among  siblings.  Traditionally,  inheritance 
provided  the  main  means  of  access  to  land.  Individuals  began 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


receiving  parcels  of  land  from  their  parents  at  marriage.  Without 
sufficient  land,  a  couple  could  not  fulfill  the  wider  obligations  of 
sharing  and  reciprocity  that  were  part  of  community-wide  fiestas. 
With  less  land  available,  moreover,  parents  tended  to  favor  the 
youngest  son — the  child  who  would  stay  at  home  and  care  for  them 
in  their  old  age.  Older  siblings  increasingly  fended  for  themselves 
or  depended  on  the  largess  of  the  younger  sibling. 

The  need  for  wage  labor  in  the  Sierra  reinforced  traditional 
patron-client  ties.  Former  peons  found  themselves  and  their  chil- 
dren dependent  on  powerful  and  influential  outsiders  as  they  had 
once  been  on  landowners.  Clientalistic  bonds  linked  the  powerless 
with  those  who  could  help  them  in  finding  work,  emergency  loans, 
and  other  forms  of  assistance  (see  Family  and  Kin,  this  ch.). 

Throughout  the  1970s  and  early  1980s,  the  government  pinned 
most  of  its  hopes  for  a  relief  of  rural  poverty  not  on  land  redistri- 
bution but  on  colonization  of  relatively  underpopulated  regions, 
especially  the  Oriente.  By  the  late  1970s,  the  Ecuadorian  Institute 
of  Agrarian  Reform  and  Settlement  (Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de  Re- 
forma  Agraria  y  Colonization — IERAC)  had  awarded  2.5  times 
more  land  in  areas  of  new  settlement  than  it  had  redistributed  in 
agricultural  reform  zones.  Further,  colonists  normally  received  a 
forty-  to  fifty-hectare  parcel  in  contrast  to  the  minifundio  typically 
awarded  former  sharecroppers  or  huasipungueros.  Land  distribution 
in  the  Oriente  was  more  equal  than  in  either  the  Costa  or  the  Sierra. 
The  average  Oriente  holding  in  the  mid-1970s  was  thirty  hectares. 
Farms  from  10  to  100  hectares — 65  percent  of  all  holdings — ac- 
counted for  83  percent  of  the  agricultural  land. 

Migrants  to  the  Oriente  were  typically  males  between  the  ages 
of  twenty-five  and  forty  with  little  land  in  their  home  communi- 
ties. They  began  homesteading  with  a  small  amount  of  savings  ac- 
cumulated through  agricultural  wage  labor.  Migrants  cleared  as 
much  land  as  they  could  on  their  parcel  and  brought  their  families 
to  join  them  as  soon  as  possible.  As  savings  were  exhausted, 
migrants  had  frequent  recourse  to  wage  labor  either  for  oil  com- 
panies or  for  more  established  settlers. 

The  Oriente 's  poorly  developed  transport  and  marketing  infra- 
structure severely  constrained  Sierra  migrants  (see  Transportation, 
ch.  3).  Settlements  typically  consisted  of  a  series  of  long,  narrow 
parcels  of  land  strung  along  both  sides  of  a  road.  Roadside  land 
was  at  a  premium;  as  it  was  claimed,  subsequent  settlers  repeated 
the  same  pattern  of  narrow  rectangular  holdings  behind  those  al- 
ready established.  In  the  more  heavily  settled  areas,  homesteads 
stood  four  to  six  properties  deep  by  the  late  1970s.  Colonists  at 
farthest  remove  were  six  to  ten  kilometers  from  an  all-weather 


79 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

road — a  significant  impediment  in  marketing  their  crops  and  in- 
creasing family  income. 

Workers 

The  urban  lower  class  had  its  roots,  as  a  distinct  social  group, 
in  the  artisans  of  colonial  society.  Artisans  were  ethnically  and  so- 
cially separate  from  the  mass  of  Indian  laborers  employed  in  the 
textile  factories.  Typically  lower-class  Spaniards  or  mestizos,  arti- 
sans provided  the  urban  elite  with  finished  goods,  especially  lux- 
ury items.  They  were  politically  powerless.  The  local  municipal 
council  (cabildo)  controlled  the  movement  of  artisans  from  their  city 
of  residence  and  regulated  the  details  of  workshop  organization, 
labor  practices,  prices,  and  production. 

The  urban  working  class  took  on  its  contemporary  configura- 
tion with  the  onset  of  industrialization  in  the  twentieth  century. 
Manufacturing  remained  heavily  in  the  hands  of  artisans,  but  large- 
scale  industries  such  as  food  processing,  textiles,  and  the  railroads 
began  to  employ  significant  numbers  of  workers. 

A  renewed  industrialization  drive  beginning  in  the  1950s,  in- 
creased levels  of  rural  to  urban  migration,  and  the  oil  development 
of  the  1970s  all  contributed  to  the  growth  and  diversity  of  the  con- 
temporary urban  working  class.  Workers  in  stable,  well-established 
enterprises  represented  the  most  heavily  unionized  portion  of  the 
lower  class  and  counted  as  an  articulate,  well-organized  voice  in 
political  affairs.  These  employees  earned  steady  wages  and  received 
the  benefits  of  social  security  and  worker  protection  legislation  (see 
Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Few  workers  enjoyed  such  benefits,  however;  the  vast  majority 
were  classified  as  artisans  or  self-employed.  Artisan  firms  ran  the 
gamut  from  small,  family-run  businesses  to  middling  manufactur- 
ing enterprises  employing  as  many  as  thirteen  workers.  Self- 
employment  typically  offered  littie  in  the  way  of  economic  security. 
The  mass  of  street  vendors,  carpenters,  tailors,  painters,  and  the 
like  worked  long  hours  for  low  earnings.  In  the  mid-1970s,  nearly 
one-quarter  of  peddlers  were  classified  as  living  in  poverty;  more 
than  30  percent  of  craftsmen  and  artisans  also  fell  below  the  poverty 
line. 

In  addition  to  economic  differences,  the  various  segments  of  the 
working  class  were  divided  in  other  ways.  Clerical  workers  and  most 
white-collar  workers  considered  themselves  as  superior  to  the  rest 
of  the  working  class  because  of  education  and,  frequently,  ethnic 
affiliation.  The  needs  of  wage  earners  for  benefits  and  a  living  wage 
often  conflicted  with  the  interests  of  the  more  prosperous  artisans, 
who  needed  to  hire  cheap  labor. 


80 


Selling  roasted  bananas  in  Guayaquil 
Courtesy  World  Bank 


81 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

The  volume  of  permanent  and  temporary  migration  from  the 
1960s  to  the  1980s  changed  the  configuration  of  the  urban  work- 
ing class.  Temporary  was  a  relative  concept  for  many  migrants: 
for  example,  surveys  of  Quito  temporary  construction  workers  in 
the  early  1980s  found  they  had  worked  in  the  city  for  an  average 
of  six  years.  Migrants  followed  a  well- trod  path  to  urban  employ- 
ment, relying  on  fellow  villagers  and  kin  who  had  made  the  tran- 
sition earlier. 

The  informal  sector  offered  a  haven  of  sorts  to  many  unskilled 
and  uneducated  migrants  and  first-time  job  seekers.  Although 
fiercely  competitive  and  usually  poorly  remunerated,  it  fit  with  the 
limited  capital  commanded  by  most  of  these  workers.  It  cost  rela- 
tively little  to  build  a  kiosk  and  stock  it  with  secondhand  goods, 
clothes,  newspapers,  and  the  like.  Some  ambulatory  vendors  or 
kiosk  sellers  obtained  higher-cost  items  on  consignment.  Only  a 
minimal  cash  outlay  was  required  to  repair  electrical  appliances 
in  a  corner  of  one's  home  or  to  do  laundry  or  cook  and  sell  food. 
Such  endeavors  also  permitted  the  use  of  unremunerated  family 
labor  and,  for  women,  meshed  well  with  the  demands  of  child  care. 
Migrants  also  gained  an  entry  into  the  city  by  selling  fruits  and 
vegetables  from  their  villages. 

The  construction  boom  fueled  by  oil  development  in  the  1970s 
generated  considerable  employment  for  temporary  migrants  to 
Quito.  Labor  contractors  congregated  at  certain  well-known  meet- 
ing places  in  the  city  to  gather  the  workers  they  needed.  Construc- 
tion offered  unskilled  recent  male  migrants  (and  minimally  educated 
first-time  job  seekers  in  general)  positions  that  were  poorly  remuner- 
ated, insecure,  nonunionized,  and  untouched  by  most  worker  pro- 
tection legislation.  Nonetheless,  such  work  provided  the  beginning 
of  an  urban  livelihood.  A  fortunate  migrant  might  form  compadrazgo 
(the  set  of  relationships  between  a  person  or  couple,  their  parents, 
and  their  godparents)  ties  with  a  labor  contractor — thus  obtaining 
a  better  chance  at  regular  employment.  Some  seemingly  menial 
jobs,  depending  on  the  individual's  circumstances,  offered  signifi- 
cant advantages.  To  receive  a  hut  on  the  job  premises  in  order  to 
guard  the  construction  materials  and  tools  at  night,  for  example, 
solved  the  worker's  housing  dilemma  and  allowed  him  to  bring  his 
wife,  who  then  could  earn  income  by  cooking  and  washing  for  other 
laborers.  Migrants  who  stayed  in  the  city  usually  became  master 
craftsmen  in  a  construction  trade,  but  some,  especially  those  who 
remained  identifiably  Indian,  often  remained  in  menial  employ- 
ment. 

Both  temporary  and  permanent  migrants  sought  to  maintain 
ties  with  families  in  the  countryside.  Temporary  migrants'  work 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


schedules  remained  tied  to  the  agricultural  cycle.  Those  workers 
returned  home  for  planting  and  harvest  and,  whenever  possible, 
weekend  visits.  A  migrant's  involvement  in  farm  work  was  a  sen- 
sitive barometer  of  his  or  her  ultimate  intentions.  An  end  to  rou- 
tine participation  in  the  agricultural  cycle  marked  completion  of 
the  gradual  switch  from  temporary  to  permanent  city  dweller. 
Although  most  migrants  did  not  send  remittances  home,  those  who 
did  increased  the  earnings  of  a  one-  to  five-hectare  plot  by  an  aver- 
age of  one-third.  Even  permanent  migrants  occasionally  returned 
to  the  village  for  the  local  patron  saint's  feast.  If  a  migrant  had 
enough  money,  he  or  she  bought  land — typically  leaving  the  hold- 
ings to  be  farmed  by  a  relative. 

Workers  made  some  gains  during  the  economic  expansion  of  the 
1970s.  Employment  was  plentiful,  and  earnings  generally  kept  pace 
with  inflation.  Even  this  prosperity  was  relative,  however;  in  1975, 
for  example,  43  percent  of  the  urban  work  force  received  less  than 
the  minimum  wage.  The  economic  crisis  of  the  early  and  mid-1980s 
hit  the  working  class  particularly  hard.  The  number  of  workers 
totally  unemployed  reached  10  percent  in  1986.  Those  classified 
as  "subemployed  by  income"  rose  from  29  percent  of  the  work 
force  in  1970  to  40  percent  in  1980.  By  the  end  of  1986,  the  aver- 
age worker's  salary  met  roughly  half  of  a  family's  basic  needs. 

Ethnic  Groups 

The  country's  ethnic  groups  descended  from  Spanish  coloniz- 
ers and  South  American  Indians;  indeed,  the  relationship  between 
the  two  groups  defined  Ecuador's  subsequent  pattern  of  ethnicity. 
The  mix  of  these  groups  created  a  third  category,  described  vari- 
ously as  mestizos  or  cholos.  The  fourth  element  consisted  of  descen- 
dants of  black  slaves  who  arrived  to  work  on  coastal  plantations 
in  the  sixteenth  century.  Censuses  did  not  record  ethnic  affiliation, 
which  in  any  event  remained  fluid;  thus,  estimates  of  the  numbers 
of  each  group  should  be  taken  only  as  approximations.  In  the  1980s, 
Indians  and  mestizos  represented  the  bulk  of  the  population,  with 
each  group  accounting  for  roughly  40  percent  of  total  population. 
Whites  represented  10  to  15  percent  and  blacks  the  remaining  5 
percent. 

The  precise  criteria  for  defining  ethnic  groups  varied  consider- 
ably. The  vocabulary  that  more  prosperous  mestizos  and  whites 
used  in  describing  ethnic  groups  mixed  social  and  biological  charac- 
teristics. Typically,  higher-status  whites  considered  their  own  po- 
sitions as  derived  from  a  superior  racial  background.  Nonetheless, 
ethnic  affiliation  remained  dynamic;  Indians  often  became  mestizos, 
and  prosperous  mestizos  sought  to  improve  their  status  sufficiently 


83 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

to  be  considered  whites.  Ethnic  identity  reflected  numerous  charac- 
teristics, only  one  of  which  was  physical  appearance;  others  included 
dress,  language,  community  membership,  and  self-identification. 

No  pretense  to  equality  or  egalitarianism  existed  in  ethnic  rela- 
tions. From  the  perspective  of  those  in  the  upper  echelons,  the  rank- 
ing of  ethnic  groups  was  undisputed:  whites,  mestizos,  blacks,  and 
Indians.  As  the  self-proclaimed  standard  bearers  of  civilization, 
whites  contended  that  only  they  manifested  proper  behavior,  an 
appropriate  sense  of  duty  to  family  and  kin,  and  the  values  integral 
to  the  Christian,  European  culture. 

As  with  much  of  social  life,  this  particular  view  of  ethnicity  had 
strongly  feudal  overtones.  The  conquistadors  accepted  and  lauded 
hierarchy  and  rank.  Their  success  in  subduing  the  Inca  Empire 
made  them  lords  of  the  land  and  justified  holding  Indians  as  serfs, 
to  serve  as  a  cheap  source  of  labor.  Although  individuals  might 
change  their  position  in  the  hierarchy,  social  mobility  itself  was 
not  positively  viewed.  The  movement  of  individuals  up  and  down 
the  social  scale  was  regrettable — ideally,  a  person  should  be  con- 
tent with,  and  maintain,  his  or  her  assigned  role  in  the  social  order. 

The  geography  of  ethnicity  remained  well-defined  until  the  surge 
in  migration  that  began  in  the  1950s.  Whites  resided  primarily  in 
larger  cities.  Mestizos  lived  in  small  towns  scattered  throughout 
the  countryside.  Indians  formed  the  bulk  of  the  Sierra  rural  popu- 
lace, although  mestizos  filled  this  role  in  the  areas  with  few  Indians. 
Most  blacks  lived  in  Esmeraldas  Province,  with  small  enclaves  found 
in  Carchi  and  Imbabura  provinces.  Pressure  on  Sierra  land  re- 
sources and  the  dissolution  of  the  traditional  hacienda,  however, 
increased  the  numbers  of  Indians  migrating  to  the  Costa,  the 
Oriente,  and  the  cities.  By  the  1980s,  Sierra  Indians — or  Indians 
in  the  process  of  switching  their  ethnic  identity  to  that  of  mestizos — 
lived  on  Costa  plantations,  in  Quito,  Guayaquil,  and  other  cities, 
and  in  colonization  areas  in  the  Oriente  and  the  Costa.  Indeed, 
Sierra  Indians  residing  in  the  coastal  region  substantially  outnum- 
bered the  remaining  original  Costa  inhabitants,  the  Cayapa  and 
Colorado  Indians.  In  the  late  1980s,  analysts  estimated  that  there 
were  only  about  4,000  Cayapas  and  Colorados.  Some  blacks  had 
migrated  from  the  remote  region  of  the  Ecuadorian-Colombian 
border  to  the  towns  and  cities  of  Esmeraldas. 

Whites  and  Mestizos 

Whites  constituted  the  most  privileged  ethnic  group  and  occupied 
the  top  of  Ecuador's  social  pyramid.  Despite  their  own  realization 
that  there  was  an  admixture  of  Indian  genes  in  their  heritage,  whites 
placed  considerable  emphasis  on  their  purported  purity  of  blood 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  Spanish  ancestry.  Although  whites  shared  a  common  cultural 
background,  differences  in  class  and  regional  loyalties — especially 
the  split  between  Quito  and  Guayaquil — remained  important. 

In  general,  financially  successful  whites  were  employed  as  high- 
status  professionals,  government  officials,  prosperous  merchants, 
and  financiers.  In  the  white  ideal,  manual  labor  was  viewed  as 
degrading  and  evidence  of  an  inability  to  maintain  a  proper  lifestyle. 
Accordingly,  business  interests  were  geared  toward  maintaining 
the  family's  social  status  rather  than  the  pursuit  of  economic  suc- 
cess for  its  own  sake. 

Below  the  white  elite,  but  merging  with  it,  were  mestizos  or  cholos. 
Mestizos  shared,  to  a  large  extent,  a  common  set  of  values  and 
a  general  cultural  orientation  with  whites.  Indeed,  the  boundary 
between  the  two  groups  remained  fluid.  Geography  also  played 
a  role.  In  the  smaller  towns  of  the  Sierra,  those  of  mixed  ancestry 
would  call  themselves  whites,  but  they  would  be  considered  as 
mestizos  by  whites  of  larger  cities  or  by  those  with  more  clearly 
superior  social  status.  Income  and  lifestyle  also  constituted  impor- 
tant factors;  a  wealthy  mestizo  might  be  called  a  white,  whereas 
a  poorer  one  would  be  classified  as  a  mestizo.  Those  in  rural  areas 
sometimes  distinguished  between  "whites"  and  "legitimate  whites." 
The  latter  could  demonstrate  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  local  com- 
munity that  their  parents  were  considered  white.  Differing  views 
of  ethnicity  partially  reflected  status  differences  between  those 
involved  in  a  given  exchange.  Hacienda  foremen,  for  example,  typi- 
cally thought  of  themselves  as  whites.  Although  Indians  would  agree 
with  that  classification,  hacendados  regarded  foremen  as  mestizos. 

The  terminology  and  categories  themselves  derived  from  colonial 
legal  distinctions.  Peninsulares  (Spanish-born  persons  residing  in  the 
New  World)  ranked  at  the  top  of  the  social  hierarchy.  They  en- 
joyed a  range  of  legal  privileges  and  status  denied  even  wealthy 
criollos  born  of  Spanish  parents  in  the  colonies.  The  pedigree  of 
forebears  defined  status  at  every  level.  Individuals  were  ranked  by 
the  number  of  grandparents  legally  classified  as  white. 

Common  usage,  however,  modified  the  categories  through  the 
centuries.  In  the  nineteenth  century,  for  example,  the  term  mestizo 
described  a  person  whose  parents  were  an  Indian  and  a  white.  In 
contrast,  a  cholo  was  one  whose  parents  were  an  Indian  and  a 
mestizo.  By  the  twentieth  century,  the  terms  mestizo  and  cholo  were 
frequently  used  interchangeably.  On  occasion,  however,  some  peo- 
ple used  cholo  in  a  derogatory  sense  to  describe  an  Indian  trying 
to  rise  above  his  or  her  proper  station.  Other  people  might  use  cholo 
to  designate  an  intermediate  category  between  Indian  and  mestizo. 


85 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

As  with  whites,  facility  in  Spanish,  urban  orientation,  livelihood, 
manners,  and  fineness  of  clothing  defined  mestizo  identity.  Tradi- 
tionally, mestizos  filled  the  intermediate  occupations,  serving  as 
clerks,  small  merchants,  hacienda  foremen,  and  low-ranking 
bureaucrats.  Although  mestizos  were  assumed  to  be  of  mixed 
Indian-white  ancestry,  an  Indian  might  gradually  become  mestizo 
by  abandoning  his  or  her  previous  lifestyle. 

Usually,  individuals  desiring  to  switch  ethnic  affiliation  had  to 
leave  their  villages,  learn  Spanish  well  enough  to  mask  their  ori- 
gin, and  acquire  a  mestizo  occupation.  They  also  had  to  acquire 
sufficient  finesse  and  confidence  in  dealing  with  whites  and  mestizos 
not  to  be  marked  as  Indians.  It  was  virtually  impossible  for  an  In- 
dian to  change  ethnic  identity  in  his  or  her  home  community.  No 
improvement  in  expertise,  level  of  education,  or  facility  in  Span- 
ish would  cause  locals  to  treat  one  born  an  Indian  as  a  mestizo. 

In  special  circumstances,  individuals  could  move  from  one  group 
to  the  other  without  leaving  their  communities.  For  example,  the 
Saraguro  Indians  of  southern  Ecuador  were  generally  more  prosper- 
ous than  local  whites.  Indeed,  the  latter  either  depended  on  the 
Saraguros  for  their  livelihood  or  lived  in  communities  where  typi- 
cally most  of  the  populace  was  Indian.  As  a  result,  a  distinctive 
pattern  of  ethnic  change  prevailed.  Some  whites  opted  to  become 
Indians,  usually  improving  their  economic  options  in  the  process. 
A  few  Indians  decided  to  improve  their  ethnic  status  and  became 
white.  The  switch  was  made,  however,  without  resort  to  subter- 
fuge. Indians  did  not  hide  their  origins  or  leave  their  home  com- 
munities. 

Blacks 

Approximately  one-half  million  blacks  lived  on  the  north  coast 
and  its  riparian  hinterlands.  They  were  the  descendants  of  Afri- 
can slaves  who  worked  on  coastal  sugar  plantations  in  the  sixteenth 
century.  Blacks  held  a  slightly  higher  position  in  the  ethnic  hierar- 
chy than  Indians,  manifesting  little  of  the  subservience  that  charac- 
terized Indians  in  dealing  with  whites  and  mestizos.  Few  readily 
identifiable  elements  of  African  heritage  remained,  although  ob- 
servers noted  aspects  of  dance,  music,  and  magical  belief  that 
represented  purported  vestiges  of  African  influence.  Some  linguists 
saw  evidence  of  an  "Africanized"  Spanish  in  the  dialects  spoken 
by  those  blacks  living  in  the  more  remote  areas. 

Most  blacks  earned  their  livelihood  in  subsistence  agriculture 
supplemented  by  wage  labor,  fishing,  and  work  on  cargo  boats. 
Women  on  the  coast  earned  income  through  shellfish  gathering. 
Before  the  onslaught  of  Sierra  to  Costa  migration  in  the  1960s  and 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


1970s,  some  black  males  earned  their  living  running  small  stores 
and  cantinas,  and  others  served  as  intermediaries  between  black 
laborers  and  white  and  mestizo  employers.  White  and  mestizo 
migrants,  however,  took  over  virtually  all  small-scale  commerce 
and  marketing  efforts  and  increasingly  served  as  employment 
brokers.  The  switch  made  skin  color  more  important  as  an  ethnic 
marker,  with  light-skinned  blacks  enjoying  greater  opportunities 
for  mobility  than  those  with  darker  skin. 

Sierra  Indians 

Sierra  Indians  had  an  estimated  population  of  1.5  to  2  million 
in  the  early  1980s  and  lived  in  the  intermontane  valleys  of  the 
Andes.  Prolonged  contact  with  Hispanic  culture,  which  dated  back 
to  the  conquest,  had  a  homogenizing  effect,  reducing  the  varia- 
tion among  the  indigenous  Sierra  tribes. 

The  Indians  of  the  Sierra  were  separated  from  whites  and  mes- 
tizos by  a  castelike  gulf.  They  were  marked  as  a  disadvantaged 
group;  to  be  an  Indian,  or  indigena,  in  Ecuador  was  to  be  stigma- 
tized. Indians  were  usually  poor  and  frequently  illiterate,  they  en- 
joyed limited  participation  in  national  institutions,  and  they 
commanded  access  to  few  of  the  social  and  economic  opportuni- 
ties available  to  more  privileged  groups. 

Visible  markers  of  ethnic  affiliation,  especially  hairstyle,  dress, 
and  language,  separated  Indians  from  the  rest  of  the  populace.  In- 
dians wore  more  manufactured  items  by  the  late  1970s  than  previ- 
ously; their  clothing,  nonetheless,  was  distinct  from  that  of  other 
rural  inhabitants.  Indians  in  communities  relying  extensively  on 
wage  labor  sometimes  assumed  Western-style  dress  while  still  main- 
taining their  Indian  identity.  Indians  spoke  Quichua — a  Quechua 
dialect — although  most  were  bilingual,  speaking  Spanish  as  a  sec- 
ond language  with  varying  degrees  of  facility.  By  the  late  1980s, 
some  younger  Indians  no  longer  learned  Quichua. 

Most  whites  and  mestizos  viewed  Indians  as  inherently  inferior. 
Some  regarded  indigenas  as  little  better  than  a  subspecies.  A  more 
benign  perspective  condescendingly  considered  the  Indian  as  an 
intellectual  inferior,  an  emotional  child  in  need  of  direction.  Such 
views  underlay  the  elaborate  public  etiquette  required  in  Indian- 
white/mestizo  interactions.  Common  practice  allowed  whites  and 
mestizos  to  use  first  names  and  familiar  verb  and  pronoun  forms 
in  addressing  Indians. 

Although  public  deference  to  other  ethnic  groups  supported 
stereotypes  of  Indians  as  intellectually  inferior,  Indians  viewed  def- 
erence as  a  survival  strategy.  Deference  established  that  an  indi- 
vidual Indian  was  properly  humble  and  deserving  of  the  white's 


87 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

or  mestizo's  aid  and  intercession.  Given  the  relative  powerlessness 
of  Indians,  such  an  approach  softened  the  rules  governing  inter- 
ethnic  exchanges. 

The  tenor  of  such  exchanges  differed  in  cases  of  limited  haci- 
enda dominance.  The  Otavalos  of  northern  Ecuador,  the  Saraguros, 
and  the  Salaacas  in  the  central  Sierra  resisted  hacienda  intrusion 
and  domination  by  whites  and  mestizos.  These  Indians  were  thus 
less  inclined  to  be  subservient  and  adopted  instead  an  attitude  of 
aloofness  or  distance  in  dealing  with  whites  and  mestizos. 

Most  Indians,  however,  could  improve  their  situation  only  by 
changing  their  ethnic  affiliation.  Such  a  switch  in  allegiances  was 
fraught  with  risk,  since  individuals  thereby  lost  the  security  offered 
by  their  small  community  of  family  and  neighbors.  Many  rejected 
such  an  extreme  move  and  instead  made  a  series  of  accommoda- 
tions such  as  changing  their  dress  and  hairstyle  while  working  for 
brief  periods  away  from  home  and  gradually  increasing  the  length 
of  their  absences. 

By  the  early  1980s,  changes  in  Indian  ethnic  consciousness  could 
be  identified  in  some  communities.  An  increasing  number  of  edu- 
cated Indians  returned  to  work  in  their  native  communities  instead 
of  assuming  a  mestizo  identity  and  moving  away.  They  remained 
Indian  in  their  loyalty  and  their  ethnic  allegiance.  The  numbers 
of  Indian  primary  school  teachers  of  Quichua  increased,  and  liter- 
acy programs  expanded;  both  trends  reinforced  Indian  identity. 

Although  these  developments  were  most  prominent  among 
prosperous  groups  such  as  the  Otavalos  and  the  Saraguros,  the  num- 
ber of  Indians  in  general  moving  into  "mestizo  jobs"  increased 
during  the  oil  expansion.  New  opportunities  gave  Indians  the  op- 
tion of  improving  their  economic  status  without  sacrificing  their 
ethnic  identity.  Observers  also  noted  a  general  growth  in  ethnic 
pride  coupled  with  negative  reactions  toward  those  Indians  who 
chose  to  abandon  their  roots  and  become  mestizos. 

Oriente  Indians 

Although  the  Indians  of  the  Oriente  first  came  into  contact  with 
whites  in  the  sixteenth  century,  the  encounters  were  more  sporad- 
ic than  those  of  most  of  the  country's  indigenous  population.  Until 
the  nineteenth  century,  most  non-Indians  entering  the  region  were 
either  traders  or  missionaries.  Beginning  in  the  1950s,  however, 
the  government  built  roads  and  encouraged  settlers  from  the  Sierra 
to  colonize  the  Amazon  River  Basin.  Virtually  all  remaining  In- 
dians were  brought  into  increasing  contact  with  national  society. 
The  interaction  between  Indians  and  outsiders  had  a  profound  im- 
pact on  the  indigenous  way  of  life. 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


In  the  late  1970s,  roughly  30,000  Quichua  speakers  and  15,000 
Jivaros  lived  in  Oriente  Indian  communities.  Quichua  speakers 
(sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Yumbos)  grew  out  of  the  detribali- 
zation  of  members  of  many  different  groups  after  the  Spanish  con- 
quest. Subject  to  the  influence  of  Quichua-speaking  missionaries 
and  traders,  various  elements  of  the  Yumbos  adopted  the  tongue 
as  a  lingua  franca  and  gradually  lost  their  previous  languages  and 
tribal  origins.  Yumbos  were  scattered  throughout  the  Oriente, 
whereas  the  Jivaros — subdivided  into  the  Shuar  and  the  Achuar — 
were  concentrated  in  southeastern  Ecuador.  Some  also  lived  in 
northeastern  Peru.  Traditionally,  both  groups  relied  on  migration 
to  resolve  intracommunity  conflict  and  to  limit  the  ecological 
damage  to  the  tropical  forest  caused  by  slash-and-burn  agriculture. 

Both  the  Yumbos  and  the  Jivaros  depended  on  agriculture  as 
their  primary  means  of  subsistence.  Manioc,  the  main  staple,  was 
grown  in  conjunction  with  a  wide  variety  of  other  fruits  and  vege- 
tables. Yumbo  men  also  resorted  to  wage  labor  to  obtain  cash  for 
the  few  purchases  deemed  necessary.  By  the  mid-1970s,  increas- 
ing numbers  of  Quichua  speakers  settled  around  some  of  the  towns 
and  missions  of  the  Oriente.  Indians  themselves  had  begun  to  make 
a  distinction  between  Christian  and  jungle  Indians.  The  former 
engaged  in  trade  with  townspeople.  The  Jivaros,  in  contrast  to  the 
Christian  Quichua  speakers,  lived  in  more  remote  areas.  Their 
mode  of  horticulture  was  similar  to  that  of  the  non-Christian 
Yumbos,  although  they  supplemented  crop  production  with  hunt- 
ing and  some  livestock  raising. 

Shamans  (curanderos)  played  a  pivotal  role  in  social  relations  in 
both  groups.  As  the  main  leaders  and  the  focus  of  local  conflicts, 
shamans  were  believed  to  both  cure  and  kill  through  magical  means. 
In  the  1980s,  group  conflicts  between  rival  shamans  still  erupted 
into  full-scale  feuds  with  loss  of  life. 

The  Oriente  Indian  population  dropped  precipitously  during  the 
initial  period  of  intensive  contact  with  outsiders.  The  destruction 
of  their  crops  by  mestizos  laying  claim  to  indigenous  lands,  the 
rapid  exposure  to  diseases  to  which  Indians  lacked  immunity,  and 
the  extreme  social  disorganization  all  contributed  to  increased  mor- 
tality and  decreased  birth  rates.  One  study  of  the  Shuar  in  the  1950s 
found  that  the  group  between  ten  and  nineteen  years  of  age  was 
smaller  than  expected.  This  was  the  group  that  had  been  youngest 
and  most  vulnerable  during  the  initial  contact  with  national  soci- 
ety. Normal  population  growth  rates  began  to  reestablish  them- 
selves after  approximately  the  first  decade  of  such  contact. 

Increased  colonization  and  oil  exploration  also  displaced  the  in- 
digenous population,  hurt  the  nutritional  status  of  Indians,  and 


89 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

damaged  tribal  social  relations.  The  Indians'  first  strategy  was  to 
retreat  to  more  remote  areas — an  option  that  became  less  avail- 
able with  increased  settlement  of  the  tropical  forest.  Land  pres- 
sures also  produced  a  decline  in  the  game  available  and,  hence, 
in  Indian  protein  levels.  Even  livestock  raising  did  little  to  improve 
Indian  diets,  since  this  was  done  primarily  for  sale  rather  than  con- 
sumption. In  addition,  the  decline  in  migration  opportunities  in- 
creased tribal  hostility  and  competition  between  rival  shamans. 

Critics  contended  that  the  government  took  little  effective  ac- 
tion to  protect  Indians.  Although  the  government  had  designated 
some  land  as  "indigenous  communes"  and  missionaries  had  or- 
ganized some  Indians  into  cooperatives,  Indians  remained  dis- 
advantaged in  conflicts  with  settlers,  who  had  greater  familiarity 
with  the  national  bureaucracy. 

Family  and  Kin 

Family  and  kin  constituted  the  most  enduring  and  esteemed  in- 
stitutions in  the  country's  social  fabric.  Both  Indian  and  Hispanic 
traditions  emphasized  the  family;  indeed,  few  alternative  institu- 
tions competed  for  an  individual's  loyalty.  The  family  buffered  In- 
dians from  the  vagaries  of  a  hostile  world.  For  the  landed  gentry, 
a  distinguished  family  name  played  a  major  role  in  the  assignment 
of  status. 

As  circumstances  dictated,  a  household  commonly  consisted  of 
a  nuclear  family — husband  and  wife  with  their  unmarried  chil- 
dren— and  one  or  more  members  of  the  wider  circle  of  kin.  Cou- 
ples often  resided  with  the  parents  of  one  of  the  spouses  for  a  period 
after  marriage.  Parents  typically  spent  their  declining  years  with 
the  youngest  son  and  his  spouse,  who  remained  at  home  to  care 
for  them.  Although  individuals  owed  their  primary  allegiance  and 
responsibility  to  their  families,  ties  extended  outward  from  this 
group.  The  wider  circle  of  kin  offered  the  individual  a  potential 
source  of  assistance  and  support.  Trust  and  responsibility  flowed 
along  the  lines  of  kinship  at  each  level  of  the  social  scale. 

The  Hispanic  man  served  as  the  unquestioned  head  of  the  house- 
hold and  the  model  of  manhood  to  his  sons.  Although  he  might 
also  be  a  kindly  and  affectionate  parent,  he  was  unlikely  to  take 
an  active  role  in  the  day-to-day  functioning  of  the  family.  Social 
tradition  granted  men  the  right  of  independence  in  their  leisure 
time;  many  took  full  advantage  of  their  freedom,  spending  much 
time  in  clubs,  coffeehouses,  and  bars  or  simply  on  the  street,  de- 
pending upon  the  social  stratum  to  which  they  belonged. 

A  woman's  range  of  activity,  by  tradition,  rested  within  the  home 
and  that  remained  true  into  the  1980s.  She  managed  the  household 
and  the  day-to-day  upbringing  of  children.  Provided  she  ran  the 


90 


Young  boy  carrying  water 
to  his  home  in  Guayaquil 
Courtesy  World  Bank 


family  in  a  way  her  husband  deemed  appropriate,  a  woman  could 
normally  expect  considerable  autonomy.  Even  in  the  more  cos- 
mopolitan sectors  of  the  larger  cities,  the  traditional  role  of  the  wife 
and  mother  remained  largely  unchanged.  Even  young  women  who 
had  high  levels  of  education  and  a  professional  career  were  subor- 
dinate to  their  husbands  in  a  wide  variety  of  matters. 

Less  stress  on  the  contrasting  roles  of  men  and  women  existed 
among  Sierra  Indians.  Women's  economic  role  in  the  household 
economy  demanded  that  they  take  the  initiative  in  many  matters. 
Women  bore  primary  responsibility  for  the  health  and  welfare  of 
the  family's  members.  In  addition,  the  double  standard  for  mari- 
tal fidelity — tacitly  accepted  or  even  lauded  in  Hispanic  culture — 
was  replaced  among  Indians  by  a  moral  code  demanding  faithful- 
ness on  the  part  of  both  members. 

Family  and  kin  served  as  a  bulwark  against  the  indi'gena's  fre- 
quently precarious  circumstances.  The  married  couple  was  the 
center  of  a  social  system  extending  outward  in  concentric  circles. 
The  couple's  parents  and  their  siblings  (and  the  siblings'  spouses) 
formed  the  primary  extended  kin  group  and  were  bound  by  strong 
ties  of  trust  and  cooperation.  Most  marriages  took  place  within  the 
small  village  or  community;  generations  of  intermarriage  created 
a  web  of  reticulate  kin  ties  within  the  community.  The  bonds  of 
kinship  reinforced  cohesion  and  a  sense  of  shared  identity  among 
kin  and  community  members  alike. 


91 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

For  all  ethnic  groups,  the  range  of  recognized  kin  beyond  the 
nuclear  family  and  close  relatives  varied  depending  on  their  eco- 
nomic and  social  circumstances.  Large  landowning  families  of  the 
Sierra  derived  part  of  their  status  and  power  from  their  far-reaching 
kinship  ties.  Families  of  lower  status  typically  chose  which  of  their 
kin  to  recognize  and  cultivate.  Beyond  a  fairly  narrow  circle,  an 
individual  had  an  element  of  choice  and  activated  the  relationship 
through  mutual  gift  giving,  shared  meals,  and  reciprocal  partici- 
pation at  family  and  community  fiestas. 

The  strength  of  kin  ties  at  every  level  of  society  often  allowed 
unrelated  persons  to  establish  bonds  of  fictive  kinship  through  the 
institution  of  compadrazgo.  In  Hispanic  and  Indian  traditions  alike, 
compadres  (people  related  through  compadrazgo)  should  manifest  the 
highest  regard  and  loyalty  toward  one  another.  Although  individuals 
might  criticize  and  argue  with  relatives,  such  actions  with  compadres 
would  be  unthinkable. 

The  occasions  for  selecting  godparents  varied  from  group  to 
group;  Christian  Indians  and  Hispanics  commonly  chose  them  at 
baptism,  confirmation,  and  marriage.  In  each  instance,  the  god- 
parents assumed  ritual  and  financial  obligations  to  the  child  (or 
couple)  and  the  parents  involved.  In  the  case  of  baptism,  the  tie 
between  the  child's  godparents  and  parents  persisted  even  if  the 
child  died.  Marriage  compadres  were  part  of  a  four- way  relation- 
ship linking  the  couple,  the  compadres,  and  each  spouse's  parents. 
Beyond  their  immediate  responsibilities  in  the  marriage  ceremo- 
nies, compadres  had  a  duty  to  take  an  ongoing  interest  in  the  mar- 
riage. Great  care  went  into  the  choice  of  godparents  for  every 
occasion. 

Compadrazgo  ties  cut  across  class  and  ethnic  boundaries.  Indians 
and  mestizos  often  asked  wealthy  and  influential  whites  to  serve 
as  godparents.  In  so  doing,  they  established  a  patron-client  rela- 
tionship with  the  higher  status  person.  The  lower  status  person  ex- 
pected to  receive  various  forms  of  assistance;  in  return,  the  higher 
status  person  gained  a  loyal  follower.  For  Indians  the  link  with  white 
or  mestizo  compadres  represented  one  of  the  few  relationships  of  trust 
with  members  of  the  dominant  ethnic  group. 

People  also  chose  compadres  of  equal  status,  selecting  distant  kin, 
close  friends,  business  associates,  or  neighbors  to  serve  as  godpar- 
ents. The  advantage  in  asking  neighbors  and  kin  was  that  the  par- 
ents knew  their  reputation  and  standing  in  the  community  more 
thoroughly  than  they  knew  this  about  the  others.  Among  compadres 
of  equal  status,  people  tried  to  match  the  economic  resources  of 
the  couples  involved,  so  that  the  reciprocal  obligations  and  gifts 
between  the  two  families  balanced  evenly. 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Religion 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  assumed  a  pivotal  role  in  Ecua- 
dor virtually  at  the  onset  of  the  Spanish  conquest.  Catholicism  was 
a  central  part  of  Hispanic  culture,  defining  the  ethos  and  world- 
view  of  the  time.  Through  the  Office  of  the  Inquisition,  the  church 
examined  the  "purity"  of  possible  officeholders.  The  church  was 
virtually  the  only  colonial  institution  dealing  with  education  or  the 
care  of  the  needy.  It  amassed  great  wealth  through  donations, 
dowries,  and  outright  purchases.  Virtually  every  segment  of  the 
organization — the  hierarchy,  individual  clerics,  and  religious  or- 
ders— owned  some  form  of  assets. 

The  liberals'  ascendancy  in  1905  brought  a  series  of  drastic  limi- 
tations to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church's  privileges  (see  The  Rule 
of  the  Liberals,  1895-1925,  ch.  1).  The  state  admitted  representa- 
tives of  other  religions  into  the  country,  established  a  system  of 
public  education,  and  seized  most  of  the  church's  rural  proper- 
ties. In  addition,  legislation  formally  abolished  tithes  (although 
many  hacienda  owners  continued  to  collect  them).  The  1945  con- 
stitution (and  the  Constitution  of  1979)  firmly  established  freedom 
of  religion  and  the  separation  of  church  and  state. 

Beginning  in  the  1960s,  the  country's  Catholic  bishops  became 
increasingly  active  in  supporting  social  change.  Church  leaders  or- 
ganized literacy  campaigns  among  the  Indians,  distributed  the  in- 
stitution's remaining  lands,  assisted  peasants  in  acquiring  land  titles, 
and  helped  communities  form  cooperatives.  In  the  1970s  and  1980s, 
the  bishops  espoused  a  centrist  position  on  social  and  political  is- 
sues. The  episcopate  contended  that  the  unjust  organization  of  Ec- 
uadorian society  caused  many  to  live  in  misery.  The  bishops  also 
claimed  that  the  economic  development  of  the  1970s  and  early  1980s 
had  merely  widened  the  gap  between  rich  and  poor.  At  the  same 
time,  however,  Catholics  were  warned  against  employing  Marxian 
analyses  of  society  or  endorsing  violence  or  class  conflict. 

Church  support  for  social  reform  occasionally  brought  it  into  con- 
flict with  government  authorities.  In  1976,  for  example,  police 
arrested  Riobamba  bishop  Leonidas  Proafio  Villalba — the  espis- 
copate's  most  outspoken  critic  of  Ecuadorian  society  and  politics — 
and  sixteen  other  Latin  American  bishops  who  were  attending  a 
church  conference  in  Chimborazo  Province.  After  accusing  the 
prelates  of  interfering  in  Ecuador's  internal  politics  and  discuss- 
ing subversive  subjects,  the  minister  of  interior  released  Proafio 
anct  expelled  the  foreign  bishops  from  the  country.  Some  Cath- 
olics formed  groups  to  support  conservative  causes.  The  Commit- 
tee of  Young  Christians  for  Christian  Civilization,  for  example, 


93 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


advocated  scuttling  the  "confiscatory  and  anti-Christian"  agrar- 
ian reform  laws. 

In  1986  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  organized  into  three 
archdioceses,  ten  dioceses,  one  territorial  prelature,  seven  apostolic 
vicariates,  and  one  apostolic  prefecture  (see  table  6,  Appendix). 
The  church  had  only  1 ,505  priests  to  minister  to  a  Catholic  popu- 
lation of  slightly  more  than  8  million,  a  ratio  of  1  priest  for  every 
5,320  Catholics. 

Although  approximately  94  percent  of  Ecuadorians  were  Roman 
Catholic,  most  either  did  not  practice  their  religion  or  pursued  a 
syncretistic  version.  Most  Sierra  Indians,  for  example,  followed 
a  type  of  folk  Catholicism  in  which  doctrinal  orthodoxy  played  only 
a  small  part.  Indigenous  beliefs  combined  with  elements  of  Catholic 
worship.  Much  of  community  life  focused  on  elaborate  fiestas  that 
marked  both  public  and  family  events.  Although  the  precise  con- 
figuration of  fiestas  varied  from  community  to  community,  in  gen- 
eral public  fiestas  involved  an  individual  in  a  series  of  increasingly 
demanding  and  expensive  sponsorships  {cargos)  of  specific  religious 
celebrations.  By  the  time  individuals  had  completed  all  the  expected 
cargos,  they  were  recognized  community  leaders. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church's  relatively  weak  presence  in  the 
countryside  and  in  squatter  settlements,  coupled  with  the  nomi- 
nal, syncretistic  practice  of  most  Catholics,  created  a  fertile  ground 
for  Protestant  evangelical  and  Pentecostal  missionary  activity. 
Although  multidenominational  groups  such  as  the  Gospel  Mission- 
ary Union  (GMU)  had  been  active  in  Ecuador  since  the  begin- 
ning of  the  twentieth  century,  significant  levels  of  conversion  did 
not  occur  until  the  late  1960s.  By  the  late  1970s,  the  GMU  reported 
that  it  had  converted  20,000  Sierra  Indians  in  Chimborazo  Province 
alone.  The  Christian  and  Missionary  Alliance  indicated  that  con- 
versions among  Indians  in  Otavolo  climbed  from  28  in  1969  to 
900  in  1979.  By  the  mid-1980s,  an  estimated  50,000  Ecuadorians 
had  converted  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints 
(the  Mormon  Church).  Other  significant  forces  in  the  Protestant 
camp  included  World  Vision,  an  evangelical  development  group 
based  in  California,  and  the  Summer  Institute  of  Linguistics  (SIL). 
The  Texas-based  SIL  dispatched  linguists  to  remote  areas  of  Ec- 
uador to  study  and  codify  tribal  languages.  The  eventual  goal  of 
such  efforts  was  to  translate  the  Bible. 

The  phenomenal  pace  of  conversion — some  observers  estimated 
that  evangelicals  and  Pentecostals  totaled  40  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation in  Chimborazo  Province  in  the  late  1980s — had  an  impact 
on  social  relations  in  rural  areas.  Change  in  religious  affiliation 
was  a  major  rupture  with  an  individual's  past  traditions  and  social 


94 


All  Saints  Cathedral,  Cuenca 
Courtesy  Martie  B.  Lisowski  Collection, 
Library  of  Congress 


95 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

ties,  effectively  removing  him  or  her  from  participation  in  fiestas — a 
major  focus  of  much  of  community  life.  Families  and  extended  fam- 
ilies found  the  break  with  the  rest  of  the  community  easier  in  the 
company  of  fellow  converts.  Protestantism  replaced  the  patterns 
of  mutual  reciprocity  characteristic  of  peasant  social  relations  with 
a  network  of  sharing  and  support  among  fellow  believers.  This  sup- 
port system  extended  to  migrants;  converts  who  left  for  the  city 
or  the  coast  sought  out  their  coreligionists  for  assistance  in  finding 
lodging  and  employment  even  as  Catholics  looked  to  their  compadres. 

Social  Welfare 
Education 

In  the  late  1980s,  formal  education  was  divided  into  four  cycles: 
a  preprimary  two-year  cycle;  six  years  of  primary  school;  second- 
ary school,  which  was  divided  into  two  three-year  cycles;  and  higher 
education.  Children  could  begin  attending  preprimary  school  at 
four;  primary  school  began  at  age  six.  Attendance  theoretically  was 
compulsory  for  children  from  six  to  fourteen  years  of  age.  The  first 
three-year  cycle  of  secondary  school  was  a  general  curriculum  that 
elaborated  on  that  of  primary  school.  In  the  second  cycle,  students 
could  specialize  in  one  of  several  different  curriculums.  An  aca- 
demic, liberal  arts  course  led  to  university  admission;  other  spe- 
cialized courses  prepared  students  for  technical  schools  or  teachers' 
training. 

Roughly  20  percent  of  primary  and  secondary  schools  were  pri- 
vately run.  The  role  of  private  schools  increased  with  grade  level; 
slightly  less  than  20  percent  of  primary  students  and  more  than 
40  percent  of  secondary  students  attended  private  schools.  Private 
education  was  a  predominantly  urban  phenomena.  Approximately 
one-third  of  city  primary  and  secondary  schools  were  private. 

The  country  had  twelve  state  universities,  equally  divided  be- 
tween the  Costa  and  the  Sierra,  and  an  additional  five  private 
universities — three  in  the  Sierra  and  two  in  the  Costa.  A  number 
of  polytechnic  schools  and  teachers'  colleges  offered  specialized  post- 
secondary  studies.  The  number  of  university  students  per  100,000 
population  grew  fivefold  from  1960  to  1980;  the  number  of  profes- 
sors grew  ten  times.  About  two- thirds  of  those  enrolled  in  higher 
education  attended  public  institutions,  especially  the  Central  Uni- 
versity in  Quito. 

The  1960s  and  1970s  saw  a  major  expansion  in  educational 
opportunities  at  every  level.  Spending  increased  until  by  1980  edu- 
cation represented  one- third  of  total  government  outlays.  Enroll- 
ments, which  had  begun  to  climb  in  the  1950s,  continued  their 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


increase  (see  table  7,  Appendix).  Retention  rates  at  the  primary 
and  secondary  level  also  improved. 

Expansion  created  its  own  set  of  problems,  however.  Construc- 
tion failed  to  keep  up  with  the  increase  in  students.  A  significant 
proportion  of  teachers  lacked  full  accreditation,  especially  at  the 
levels  of  secondary  and  higher  education.  These  deficiencies  were 
most  evident  in  the  countryside,  where  the  percentage  of  uncerti- 
fied primary  teachers  was  estimated  to  be  double  that  of  the  cities. 
Finally,  despite  enrollment  increases,  by  the  1980s  the  percentage 
of  school-aged  children  attending  school  lagged  (see  fig.  10).  Rates 
were  particularly  low  for  rural  primary- school- aged  children.  Rela- 
tively few  children  continued  beyond  the  first  cycle  of  secondary 
school. 

Illiteracy  rates,  especially  those  in  the  countryside,  also  remained 
elevated  (see  table  8,  Appendix).  The  Ministry  of  Education  and 
Culture,  municipal  governments,  and  the  military  all  offered  literacy 
classes  (see  Recruitment  and  Conditions  of  Service,  ch.  5).  Over- 
all, the  programs  had  limited  impact,  however;  most  of  the  decline 
in  illiteracy  came  through  increased  school  enrollments.  In  the 
1980s,  there  were  efforts  to  target  literacy  programs  to  the  needs 
of  the  rural  populace  and  non-Spanish  speakers. 

Health  and  Social  Security 

Both  the  public  and  the  private  sectors  provided  health  services. 
Most  public  health  care  came  under  the  aegis  of  the  Ministry  of 
Public  Health,  although  the  armed  forces,  the  Ecuadorian  Social 
Security  Institute  (Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de  Seguridad  Social — 
IESS),  and  a  number  of  other  autonomous  agencies  also  contribut- 
ed. The  Ministry  of  Health  covered  about  80  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation and  IESS  another  10  percent. 

The  Ministry  of  Public  Health  organized  a  four-tiered  system 
of  health  care.  Auxiliary  health-care  personnel  staffed  posts  that 
served  small  rural  settlements  of  fewer  than  1,500  inhabitants. 
Health  centers  staffed  with  health-care  professionals  serviced  com- 
munities of  1,500  to  5,000  inhabitants.  Urban  centers  took  care 
of  the  larger  provincial  capitals.  Provincial  and  national  hospitals 
were  located  in  the  largest  cities.  In  the  early  1980s,  there  were 
approximately  2,100  health  establishments  nationwide;  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Health  ran  more  than  half.  Both  the  limited  numbers 
of  health-care  professionals  and  their  lack  of  training  hampered  pub- 
lic health  care.  These  deficiencies  were  most  apparent  in  regard 
to  medical  specialists,  technicians,  and  nurses. 

Infant  mortality-rate  estimates  in  the  early  1980s  ranged  from 
70  to  76  per  1,000  live  births,  with  government  projections  of  63 


97 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


100 


6-9  10-14  15-19  20-24 

AGE-GROUP 


■  Rural  2  Urban  | 

> 

'j  Total 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ecuador,  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadistica  y  Censos, 
IV  Censo  Nacional  de  Poblaciony  III  de  Vivienda,  1982 — Resumen  Nacional:  Breve  Andli- 
sis  de  los  Resultados  Definitivos,  Quito,  1985,  49. 

Figure  10.  Percentage  of  School-Aged  Population  Enrolled  in  School,  Divided 
by  Urban-Rural  Residence,  1982 

per  1,000  live  births  for  the  period  1985  to  1990.  Although  these 
rates  were  a  significant  improvement  from  the  death  figure  of  140 
recorded  in  1950,  they  remained  a  serious  concern.  Infant  mor- 
tality varied  significandy  by  region  and  socioeconomic  status.  Sur- 
veys in  urban  areas  showed  a  range  of  5  to  108  infant  deaths  per 
1,000  live  births,  whereas  those  in  rural  areas  varied  from  90  to 
200.  Intestinal  ailments  and  respiratory  diseases  (including  bron- 
chitis, emphysema,  asthma,  and  pneumonia)  caused  roughly  three- 
fourths  of  all  infant  deaths. 

Childhood  mortality  (deaths  among  one-  to  four-year-olds) 
dropped  to  9  per  1,000  in  the  mid-1980s  following  immunization 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


campaigns  and  some  attempts  to  control  diarrheal  diseases.  Acute 
respiratory  infections  represented  one-third  of  all  deaths  in  this  age 
group.  Further  improvement  in  the  childhood  mortality  rate 
demanded  extending  the  immunization  program,  increasing  the 
availability  of  oral  rehydration  therapy,  improving  nutrition,  and 
controlling  respiratory  ailments. 

Precise,  detailed  evidence  about  children's  nutritional  status  re- 
mained limited  and  contradictory.  The  government  conducted  a 
national  survey  in  1959  and  followed  this  with  more  limited  studies 
in  the  late  1960s  and  1970s.  In  the  late  1960s,  40  percent  of  preschool 
children  showed  some  degree  of  malnutrition.  Among  children 
under  twelve  years  of  age,  30  percent  were  malnourished  and  15 
percent  anemic. 

The  main  causes  of  death  among  adults  in  the  mid-1980s  were 
motor  vehicle  accidents,  coronary  heart  disease,  cerebrovascular 
disease,  cancer,  and  tuberculosis.  Maternal  mortality  remained 
high— 1.8  per  100,000  live  births  in  the  mid-1980s.  As  with  the 
case  of  infant  mortality,  maternal  mortality  national  averages 
masked  considerable  regional  variation,  with  the  rate  nearly  three 
times  higher  in  some  areas.  These  higher  percentages  reflected  the 
limited  access  many  rural  women  had  to  health  care.  In  the  early 
1980s,  more  than  40  percent  of  all  pregnancies  were  not  monitored; 
the  majority  of  births  were  unattended  by  modern  medical  per- 
sonnel. 

A  number  of  tropical  diseases  concerned  health  officials.  On- 
chocerciasis (river  blindness)  was  found  in  a  number  of  small  areas; 
its  range  was  expanding  in  the  mid-1980s.  Although  Chagas'  dis- 
ease (a  parasitic  infection)  was  not  prevalent,  environmental  fac- 
tors favored  its  spread.  Leishmaniasis  (also  a  parasitic  infection) 
was  expanding  in  the  deforested  areas  of  the  coast  and  coastal  trop- 
ical forest.  Malaria  was  found  in  60  percent  of  the  country  and 
became  a  major  focus  of  public  health  efforts  in  the  late  1980s.  A 
drop  in  mosquito  control  programs  coupled  with  severe  flooding 
in  1981  and  1982  led  to  an  increase  in  the  prevalence  of  malaria 
in  the  mid-1980s.  Between  1980  and  1984,  the  number  of  reported 
cases  increased  ten  times.  As  of  1988,  Ecuador  also  reported  forty- 
five  cases  of,  and  twenty-six  deaths  from,  acquired  immune  defi- 
ciency syndrome  (AIDS). 

The  Ecuadorian  Social  Security  Institute,  an  autonomous  agency 
operating  under  the  Ministry  of  Social  Welfare,  offered  its  mem- 
bers old-age,  survivor,  and  invalidism  benefits,  sickness  and  mater- 
nity coverage,  and  work  injury  and  unemployment  benefits.  In 
1982,  however,  the  system  covered  only  approximately  23  percent 
of  the  economically  active  population  (21  percent  of  men  and  33 


99 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

percent  of  women).  Coverage  varied  widely  according  to  urban 
or  rural  residence  as  well  as  sex.  Urban  women  had  the  highest 
rates  of  coverage  (42  percent),  whereas  rural  men  had  the  lowest 
(9  percent)  (see  table  9,  Appendix).  Employees  in  banking,  indus- 
try, commerce,  and  government,  and  self-employed  professionals 
had  coverage  for  most  benefits.  Agricultural  workers  were  covered 
for  work  injury  and  unemployment  benefits  and  were  gradually 
being  included  in  pension  funds  and  survivors'  and  death  benefits. 

Osvaldo  Hurtado's  Political  Power  in  Ecuador  describes  the  dy- 
namics of  Ecuadorian  society  from  the  colonial  to  the  modern  era. 
Norman  E.  Whitten,  Jr.'s  numerous  studies  offer  a  wealth  of  data 
concerning  Costa  blacks  and  Oriente  Indians.  Simon  Commander 
and  Peter  Peek's  "Oil,  Exports,  Agrarian  Change,  and  the  Rural 
Labor  Process:  The  Ecuador  Sierra  in  the  1970s"  is  an  insightful 
analysis  of  social  change  in  the  Sierra.  Frank  Salomon,  Peter  C. 
Meier,  Joseph  B.  Casagrande,  and  Wendy  A.  Weiss  all  describe 
the  dynamics  of  ethnic  relations.  De Wight  R.  Middleton  and 
Marilyn  Silverman  examine  coastal  society,  especially  the  changes 
resulting  from  migration.  Axel  Kroeger  and  Francoise  Varobora- 
Freedman,  Mario  Hiraoka,  Shozo  Yamamoto,  and  Michael  J. 
Harner  examine  the  indigenous  peoples  of  the  Oriente  or  the  im- 
pact of  colonization  on  that  region.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


100 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Terra-cotta  hunter  (Jama-Coaque  culture) 


AS  THE  1980S  DREW  TO  A  CLOSE,  Ecuador  remained  a  lower 
middle-income  nation  with  a  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see 
Glossary)  of  US$9.4  billion,  or  US$940  per  capita.  In  South  Ameri- 
ca, only  Peru,  Bolivia,  and  Guyana  had  a  lower  per  capita  GDP. 
Agriculture  (primarily  bananas,  coffee,  and  cocoa)  and  fishing  were 
still  important  sectors  of  the  economy,  together  providing  40  per- 
cent of  export  earnings  in  1989.  Petroleum,  the  other  major  ex- 
port commodity,  produced  50  percent  of  export  earnings  in  the 
same  year.  Nevertheless,  services,  especially  trade  and  financial 
services,  constituted  the  fastest-growing  economic  sector  and  by 
the  end  of  the  1980s  employed  almost  half  of  the  work  force. 
Manufacturing  also  played  a  small  but  growing  role  in  the  economy. 

Historically,  Ecuador's  economy  has  been  characterized  by  the 
dichotomy,  and  sometimes  bitter  rivalry,  between  the  large-scale, 
export-oriented  agricultural  enterprises  of  the  Costa  (coastal  re- 
gion) and  the  smaller  farms  and  businesses  of  the  Sierra  (Andean 
highlands) .  Unlike  many  developing  countries  that  have  highly  cen- 
tralized infrastructures,  Ecuador  had  two  banking,  communi- 
cations, transportation,  and  trade  centers — one  in  Guayaquil  to 
handle  the  country's  export  trade  and  the  other  in  Quito  to  serve 
the  populace  in  the  Sierra.  Manufacturing  was  divided  also,  with 
Guayaquil  leading  Quito  in  output. 

The  discovery  of  substantial  new  petroleum  deposits  in  1967 
spurred  economic  growth  and  a  shift  away  from  traditional  agricul- 
ture to  manufacturing  and  services.  The  government  invested  much 
of  its  petroleum  revenue  in  domestic  development  programs.  The 
rapid  growth  years  in  the  1970s  were  followed  by  hardship  in  the 
1980s,  however,  as  petroleum  prices  fell  and  the  entire  economy 
slumped. 

Two  administrations  in  the  1980s  tried  different  approaches  to 
restoring  the  economy.  President  Leon  Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra 
(1984-88)  applied  free-market  principles  and  deregulation,  policies 
that  initially  promoted  growth.  Wage  increases  and  high  inflation, 
however,  ultimately  erased  most  gains.  President  Rodrigo  Borja 
Cevallos  (1988-  )  replaced  the  free-market  approach  with  state  in- 
tervention and  imposed  an  austerity  program.  His  policies  resulted 
in  new  economic  growth,  but  inflation  and  unemployment  remained 
at  record  high  levels. 

Ecuador's  chronically  large  foreign  debt  continued  to  stifle  eco- 
nomic growth.  Having  borrowed  heavily  during  the  boom  years 


103 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  1970s,  the  government  found  itself  unable  to  meet  its  for- 
eign debt  obligations  at  the  end  of  the  1980s.  An  earthquake  in 
1987,  which  damaged  the  country's  crude  petroleum  pipeline,  fur- 
ther curtailed  import  earnings.  Although  by  1989  Ecuador  had  re- 
sumed its  foreign  debt  payments  and  was  again  exporting  oil,  the 
nation's  economic  future  remained  uncertain. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

Colonial  Ecuador  was  governed  first  by  the  Viceroy alty  of  Peru 
and  then  by  the  Viceroyalty  of  Nueva  Granada  (see  Spanish  Colo- 
nial Era,  ch.  1).  Ecuador  differed  significantly  from  the  viceroyalty 
centers  (Lima  and  Bogota),  however,  in  that  mining  never  became 
a  vital  part  of  the  economy.  Instead,  crop  cultivation  and  livestock 
raising  dominated  the  economy,  especially  in  the  Sierra.  The  Si- 
erra's temperate  climate  was  ideal  for  producing  barley,  wheat, 
and  corn.  The  Costa  became  one  of  the  world's  leading  producers 
of  cocoa.  Sugarcane,  bananas,  coconuts,  tobacco,  and  cotton  also 
were  grown  in  the  Costa  for  export  purposes.  Foreign  commerce 
expanded  gradually  during  the  eighteenth  century,  but  agricultural 
exports  remained  paramount.  Manufacturing  never  became  a  sig- 
nificant economic  activity  in  colonial  Ecuador,  but  busy  sweatshops, 
called  obrajes,  in  Riobamba  and  Latacunga  made  Ecuador  an  ex- 
porter of  woolen  and  cotton  fabrics;  a  shipyard  in  Guayaquil  was 
one  of  the  largest  and  best  in  Spanish  America;  and  sugar  mills 
manufactured  sugar,  molasses,  and  rum  made  from  molasses. 

When  Ecuador  gained  complete  independence  in  1830,  it  had 
a  largely  rural  population  of  about  one-half  million.  The  rural  econ- 
omy came  to  rely  on  a  system  of  peonage,  in  which  Sierra  and  Costa 
Indians  were  allowed  to  settle  on  the  lands  belonging  to  the  hacen- 
dado,  to  whom  they  paid  rent  in  the  form  of  labor  and  a  share  of 
their  crop.  The  economy  of  the  new  republic,  based  on  the  culti- 
vation of  cash  crops  and  inexpensive  raw  materials  for  the  world 
market  and  dependent  on  peonage  labor,  changed  little  during  the 
remainder  of  the  nineteenth  and  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century. 
Vulnerable  to  changing  international  market  demands  and  price 
fluctuations,  Ecuador's  economy  was  often  characterized  by  insta- 
bility and  malaise. 

During  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  cocoa  produc- 
tion nearly  tripled,  and  total  exports  increased  tenfold  (see  The 
Era  of  Conservatism,  1860-95,  ch.  1).  As  a  result,  the  Costa  be- 
came the  country's  center  of  economic  activity.  Guayaquil  domi- 
nated banking,  commercial,  and  export-import  affairs.  During  the 
first  two  decades  of  the  twentieth  century,  cocoa  exports  continued 
to  be  the  mainstay  of  the  economy  and  the  principal  source  of 


104 


The  Economy 


foreign  exchange,  but  other  agricultural  products  like  coffee  and 
sugar  and  fish  products  were  also  important  exports.  The  decline 
of  the  cocoa  industry  in  the  1930s  and  1940s,  brought  about  by 
chronic  pestilence  and  the  loss  of  foreign  markets  to  competitors, 
had  debilitating  repercussions  for  the  entire  economy.  During  the 
1950s,  government-sponsored  replanting  efforts  contributed  to  a 
partial  revival  of  the  cocoa  industry,  so  that  by  1958  Ecuador  was 
the  world's  sixth  leading  exporter  of  cocoa.  Nonetheless,  by  the 
early  1950s  bananas  had  replaced  cocoa  as  the  country's  primary 
export  crop. 

The  Ecuadorian  economy  made  great  strides  after  1950,  when 
annual  exports,  90  percent  of  which  were  agricultural,  were  valued 
at  less  than  US$30  million,  and  foreign-exchange  reserves  stood 
at  about  US$15  million.  Between  1950  and  1970,  a  slow,  steady 
expansion  of  nonagricultural  activities  took  place,  especially  in  the 
construction,  utilities,  and  services  sectors.  Construction,  for  ex- 
ample, made  up  only  3  percent  of  the  GDP  in  1950,  but  it  con- 
tributed 7.6  percent  to  the  GDP  in  1971 .  Agriculture's  annual  share 
of  the  GDP  was  38.8  percent  in  1950  compared  with  a  24.7  per- 
cent share  in  1971  (see  table  10,  Appendix). 

The  1960s  saw  an  acceleration  and  diversification  of  the  manufac- 
turing sector  to  meet  domestic  demand,  with  an  emphasis  on  in- 
termediate inputs  and  consumer  durable  goods.  By  1971  these 
accounted  for  about  50  percent  of  industrial  output.  Still,  manufac- 
tured products — mainly  processed  agricultural  goods — made  up 
only  about  10  percent  of  Ecuador's  exports  in  1971.  Industry  was 
still  at  an  early  stage  of  development,  and  about  50  percent  of  the 
labor  force  worked  in  agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing.  Traditional 
industries,  such  as  food  processing,  beverages,  and  textiles,  were 
largely  dependent  on  agriculture.  The  small  size  of  the  domestic 
market,  the  high  production  cost  in  relation  to  available  external 
markets,  and  an  undeveloped  human,  physical,  and  financial  in- 
frastructure all  combined  to  limit  the  expansion  of  consumer  durable 
goods  in  the  Ecuadorian  economy. 

The  discovery  of  new  petroleum  fields  in  the  Oriente  (eastern 
region)  after  1967  transformed  the  country  into  a  world  producer 
of  oil  and  brought  large  increases  in  government  revenue  be- 
ginning in  1972  (see  Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas,  this  ch.).  That 
year  saw  the  completion  of  the  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline,  a 
503 -kilometer-long  oil  pipeline  leading  from  the  Oriente  to  the  port 
city  of  Esmeraldas  (see  fig.  11).  A  refinery  also  was  constructed 
just  south  of  Esmeraldas.  In  addition,  in  1970  large  quantities  of 
natural  gas  deposits  were  discovered  in  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil. 


105 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Orlando  Martino,  Mineral  Industries  of  Latin  America, 
Washington,  1988,  58. 

Figure  11.  Petroleum  and  Mineral  Resources,  1988 

Largely  because  of  petroleum  exports,  Ecuador's  net  foreign- 
exchange  earnings  climbed  from  US$43  million  in  1971  to  over 
US$350  million  in  1974. 

The  production  and  export  of  oil  that  began  in  the  early  1970s, 
coupled  with  dramatic  international  price  increases  for  petroleum, 
contributed  significantiy  to  unprecedented  economic  growth.  Real 
GDP  increased  by  an  average  of  more  than  9  percent  per  year  dur- 
ing 1970  to  1977,  as  compared  with  only  5.9  percent  from  1960 
to  1970.  The  manufacturing  sector  alone  experienced  a  12.9  per- 
cent average  annual  GDP  real  growth  rate  during  1975-77.  Ecua- 
dor became  a  lower  middle-income  country,  although  it  remained 


106 


The  Economy 


one  of  the  poorer  countries  of  South  America.  Economic  growth 
had  negative  side  effects,  however.  Real  imports  increased  by  an 
annual  average  of  7  percent  between  1974  and  1979;  this  spawned 
an  inflationary  pattern  that  eroded  income.  During  the  same  pe- 
riod, the  country's  external  debt  grew  from  US$324  million  to  about 
US$4.5  billion. 

Recent  Economic  Performance 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  economy  faltered  as  the  international  price 
of  petroleum  began  a  gradual  decline  and  the  country  lost  some 
foreign  markets  for  its  traditional  agricultural  products.  Dramatic 
climatic  changes  caused  by  El  Nino  during  1982-83  produced 
coastal  floods,  torrential  rains,  and  severe  drought,  which  were  high- 
ly damaging  to  crops  and  to  the  transportation  and  marketing  in- 
frastructures (see  Return  to  Democratic  Rule,  1979-84,  ch.  1; 
Climate,  ch.  2).  The  economy  also  began  to  feel  the  pinch  of  the 
country's  growing  external  debt,  which  amounted  to  US$8.4  bil- 
lion in  1984.  Debt  servicing  in  that  year  absorbed  approximately 
60  percent  of  the  country's  export  earnings.  Foreign  sources  of  credit 
began  to  dry  up  as  early  as  1982,  leaving  the  national  government 
and  hundreds  of  state-owned  companies  short  of  capital.  Inflationary 
pressures  mounted  during  the  early  1980s;  consumer  prices,  which 
rose  14  percent  in  1980,  increased  by  25  percent  in  1982  and  by 
53  percent  in  1983  (see  fig.  12). 

In  March  1983,  the  government,  with  an  eye  toward  reschedul- 
ing the  external  debt,  introduced  several  austerity  measures,  in- 
cluding a  second  devaluation  of  the  sucre  (S/;  for  value  of  the 
sucre — see  Glossary)  in  two  years,  this  time  a  21 -percent  devalua- 
tion of  the  sucre,  a  16-percent  rise  in  the  commercial  interest  rate, 
and  a  deceleration  of  government  spending.  The  government's 
stabilization  program,  which  included  new  exchange  controls  and 
the  reduction  of  fuel  and  export  subsidies,  was  unpopular  domes- 
tically, but  it  enabled  Ecuador  to  successfully  negotiate  a  new  debt 
repayment  schedule  with  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary),  which  also  proved  willing  to  grant  Ecuador  an  ad- 
ditional US$107  million  in  financial  assistance.  The  government, 
after  several  months  of  negotiation,  also  concluded  multiyear 
rescheduling  agreements  with  foreign  private  banks  in  December 
1984  and  with  the  Paris  Club  (a  financial  consortium  of  Western 
banks  and  governments)  in  April  1985.  By  successfully  refinanc- 
ing nearly  all  of  the  public- sector  debt,  the  government  narrowly 
avoided  defaulting  on  payments,  and,  for  the  period  1985-89,  the 
external  debt- service  ratio  was  reduced  from  60  percent  of  export 


107 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


PERCENT 


80    81     82    83    84    85    86    87    88  89 
YEAR 


Figure  12.  Rise  in  Consumer  Prices,  1980-89 

earnings  to  a  manageable  30  percent.  From  1985  until  the  beginning 
of  1987,  Ecuador  paid  only  the  interest  on  its  external  debt  (see 
External  Debt,  this  ch.). 

The  Ecuadorian  economy  recovered  during  1984,  partly  as  a 
result  of  temporary  stability  in  the  international  price  of  crude  oil 
and  partly  because  of  a  rebound  in  the  agricultural  sector.  By  late 
1984,  the  balance-of-payments  current  account,  which  had  reflected 
a  US$58  million  deficit  in  1983,  had  a  US$19  million  credit,  and 
the  trade  surplus  reached  US$1  billion.  The  real  GDP  growth  rate 
was  4  percent,  nearly  a  7 -percent  increase  over  1983.  These  im- 
provements in  the  economy,  combined  with  wage  restraints  and 
a  tight  national  government  budget,  made  it  possible  to  reduce  the 
inflation  rate  in  1984  to  25  percent;  for  the  next  two  years,  the  in- 
flation rate  was  contained  at  about  24  percent. 

In  1985  Ecuador  withdrew  for  one  year  from  the  Organization 
of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  (OPEC)  in  order  to  free  itself 


108 


The  Economy 


PERCENT 

8 


CD 

I  6 


I 

o 

c 

1 

c/) 

CO 
CD 

b 

cz 


°  -2 
0  ^ 

CO 
CO 

0 

o  - 

0 

Q 


1 
1 

1 

1 

! 

-77- 

I 

II 

1 

1 

i 

80    81     82  83 


84  85  86 
YEAR 


87    88  89 


Figure  13.  Real  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  Growth  Rate,  1980-89 


from  that  organization's  export  quotas  and  thus  increase  oil  export 
revenue.  In  1984  petroleum  had  accounted  for  about  70  percent 
of  all  commodity  exports  and  about  50  percent  of  the  central  govern- 
ment's  revenues.  In  1985  Ecuador  earned  over  US$1.8  billion  in 
revenue  from  petroleum  exports,  two-thirds  of  Ecuador's  export 
revenue  that  year.  But  a  sharp  decline  in  international  oil  prices 
in  1986  resulted  in  a  US$1 . 1 -billion  drop  in  petroleum  export 
revenue.  The  balance-of-payments  current  account,  which  regis- 
tered a  surplus  of  US$149  million  in  1985,  showed  a  US$613-million 
deficit  for  1986.  Foreign-exchange  reserves  declined  to  US$145  mil- 
lion by  mid- 1986,  and  real  GDP  growth  for  1986  came  to  only  1.7 
percent,  compared  with  3.8  percent  in  1985  (see  fig.  13).  To  meet 
the  economic  crisis,  in  January  1987  the  government  suspended 
debt  repayments  to  all  private  lending  institutions  and  imposed  a 
2 5 -percent  surcharge  on  many  imported  items. 


109 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Febres  Cordero  had  entered  office  promising  prosperity  and  neo- 
liberal  economic  reforms  featuring  governmental  efficiency,  a  free- 
enterprise  approach  in  managing  the  economy,  and  a  free-market 
exchange  system  that  would  promote  economic  deregulation.  To 
fulfill  these  promises,  Febres  Cordero  removed  government  price 
controls,  devalued  the  currency,  and  eliminated  most  import  quotas. 
In  addition,  he  reduced  import  tariffs  on  industrial  raw  materials 
by  one-half  and  invited  new  foreign  investment  into  the  country. 
Although  GDP  growth  had  bounced  back  from  a  negative  2.8  per- 
cent in  1983  to  a  healthy  4.0  percent  in  1984  and  3.8  percent  in 
1985,  the  sharp  drop  in  petroleum  export  revenue  in  1986  and  the 
resulting  increase  in  the  fiscal  deficit,  81  percent  of  which  was 
financed  through  foreign  borrowing,  brought  the  nation  to  the  brink 
of  an  economic  crisis.  In  1986  GDP  growth  fell  to  1 .7  percent,  un- 
employment went  up,  and  per  capita  income  fell  to  its  lowest  level 
since  1978. 

In  March  1987,  an  earthquake  destroyed  about  forty  kilometers 
of  the  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline  and  its  pumping  stations,  caus- 
ing a  nearly  six-month  suspension  in  crude  petroleum  pro- 
duction and  the  loss  of  an  additional  US$700  million  in  export 
revenue.  Meanwhile,  revenue  from  other  exports — cocoa,  coffee, 
and  shrimp — did  not  increase  and  failed  to  compensate  for  the 
decline  in  oil  income.  The  Ecuadorian  government  acquired  a 
World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  loan  of  US$80  million  to  help  finance 
the  reconstruction  of  the  damaged  pipeline,  but  repairs  cost  the 
government  a  total  of  US$150  million.  GDP  fell  to  -5.2  percent 
in  1987,  inflation  inched  up  to  32.5  percent,  and  the  trade  deficit 
stood  at  US$33  million.  The  government  responded  to  its  finan- 
cial emergency  by  raising  domestic  gasoline  prices  by  80  percent 
and  bus  and  taxi  fares  by  14  percent.  To  help  make  up  for  the  oil 
revenue  shortfall,  a  consortium  of  international  banks  loaned 
Ecuador  an  additional  US$220  million,  bringing  public-sector  ex- 
ternal debt  at  the  end  of  1987  to  about  US$9.6  billion,  one  of  the 
world's  highest  on  a  per-capita  basis.  (Ecuador's  GDP  for  1987 
was  US$10.6  billion.) 

During  Febres  Cordero 's  last  two  years  in  office,  his  economic 
team  concentrated  on  implementing  monetary  reforms,  renegotiat- 
ing the  external  debt,  and  encouraging  foreign  investment.  Its  ef- 
forts were  only  partially  successful.  The  government  failed  to  hold 
wages  down,  and,  despite  efforts  to  curtail  government  spending, 
public-sector  expenditures  increased  dramatically  in  1987  and  in 
the  first  half  of  1988.  Ecuador's  halting  experiment  with  neoliberal 
economic  measures  unofficially  came  to  a  close  on  March  3, 
1988,  when  Febres  Cordero  announced  the  end  of  the  free-market 


110 


The  Economy 


foreign-exchange  system  (see  Monetary  and  Exchange  Rate  Poli- 
cies, this  ch.).  Two  months  later,  on  May  8,  1988,  Febres  Cor- 
dero's  longtime  rival,  Rodrigo  Borja  of  the  Social  Democratic  party, 
the  center-left  Democratic  Left  (Izquierda  Democratica — ID),  was 
elected  president  with  46  percent  of  the  vote  (see  Political  Parties, 
ch.  4). 

In  contrast  to  Febres  Cordero,  Borja  advocated  an  expanded  state 
role  in  the  national  economy.  During  the  campaign,  he  promised 
to  promote  industrialization  and  nontraditional  exports  and  stressed 
the  importance  of  agrarian  reform.  Borja,  however,  inherited  a 
rapidly  worsening  economy  as  he  assumed  office  on  August  10, 
1988;  within  a  month  he  announced  a  national  economic  austerity 
program  that  included  a  sharp  devaluation  of  the  sucre,  tax  in- 
creases, new  import  restrictions,  a  reduction  in  public-sector  spend- 
ing, a  100-percent  increase  in  fuel  prices,  and  a  40-percent  boost 
in  electricity  rates  for  private  households.  Borja  also  opened  new 
negotiations  with  foreign  creditors  to  whom  Ecuador  was  in  ar- 
rears for  almost  US$1  billion.  The  president,  however,  refused  to 
lift  the  suspension  of  foreign  debt  payments,  imposed  by  Febres 
Cordero  in  1988,  until  April  1989  (see  External  Sector,  this  ch.). 

Borja' s  austerity  policies  and  the  resulting  climb  in  the  unem- 
ployment rate  to  13  percent  by  the  end  of  1988,  the  highest  in  ten 
years,  spawned  strikes  by  labor  unions,  public  employees,  and  stu- 
dents. The  government,  however,  continued  its  anti-inflationary 
program.  Despite  government  cost-cutting  efforts,  inflation  reached 
86  percent  in  1988,  the  highest  in  the  country's  history.  On  the 
positive  side  of  the  economic  ledger,  GDP  expanded  by  8  percent 
in  1988,  as  petroleum  exports  returned  to  pre-earthquake  levels. 

In  an  attempt  to  blunt  criticism  of  his  policies,  Borja  introduced 
a  new  package  of  economic  liberalization  measures  in  1989,  in- 
cluding a  relaxation  of  import  restrictions,  a  further  devaluation 
of  the  official  exchange  rate  to  prod  exports,  and  a  loosening  of 
banking  controls  to  stimulate  the  manufacturing  sector.  About  62 
percent  of  the  import  items  that  had  been  barred  since  mid- 1988 
were  to  be  allowed  into  the  country  beginning  in  1990. 

Role  of  Government 

The  Constitution  reserves  to  the  state  the  sole  right  to  exploit 
natural  resources  and  to  create  and  maintain  the  basic  national  eco- 
nomic infrastructure.  The  central  government  traditionally  han- 
dled this  responsibility  through  a  decentralized  approach  to 
economic  development.  Over  the  decades,  the  government  formed 
numerous  autonomous  or  independent  agencies  in  an  ad  hoc  fashion 
to  perform  public  services  or  develop  natural  resources.  Some  of 


111 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

these  independent  enterprises  became  large  and  powerful  and  func- 
tioned largely  beyond  government  control  or  monitoring. 

Mismanagement  and  inefficiencies  characterized  many  indepen- 
dent agencies.  Petroecuador,  for  example,  the  largest  and  perhaps 
most  important  state-owned  enterprise,  which  was  responsible  for 
much  of  Ecuador's  petroleum  production  and  refining,  was  not 
required  to  pay  dividends  or  to  meet  established  performance  stan- 
dards. Because  it  had  no  control  over  oil-generated  income, 
Petroecuador  lacked  the  incentive  to  keep  production  costs  down 
or  to  improve  efficiency.  The  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Electrifica- 
tion (Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de  Electrificacion — Inecel),  which  was 
founded  in  1961  under  the  auspices  of  the  Ministry  of  Energy  and 
Mines,  was  unable  to  coordinate  its  major  departments,  or  to  set 
the  rates  charged  to  electricity  consumers.  As  a  result,  Inecel  re- 
lied on  the  government  to  meet  operating  costs.  The  Ecuadorian 
Institute  of  Telecommunications  (Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de 
Telecomunicaciones — Ietel),  established  in  1972  and  attached  to 
the  Ministry  of  Public  Works  and  Communications,  suffered  from 
poor  internal  organization  and  weak  financial  management  (see 
Natural  Resources  and  Energy,  this  ch.). 

The  government's  highly  bureaucratic  and  decentralized  ap- 
proach to  economic  development  thus  served  as  a  disincentive  to 
entrepreneurs,  who  were  forced  to  battle  an  array  of  regulations 
controlling  business  and  commerce.  Cumbersome  administrative 
procedures  often  resulted  in  protracted  and  costly  delays  in  such 
fundamental  activities  as  procurement,  business  registration,  and 
trade  transactions. 

Fiscal  Policies 

The  Ecuadorian  public  sector,  comprising  the  central  govern- 
ment, state  enterprises,  and  autonomous  agencies  operating  on  a 
national  scale,  expanded  rapidly  during  1972-77.  Public-sector  ex- 
penditures, adjusted  for  an  average  annual  inflation  rate  of  14  per- 
cent, swelled  about  65  percent  during  this  period.  Such  increases 
were  made  possible  because  of  the  boost  in  revenue  derived  from 
a  rise  in  international  oil  prices  and  the  expansion  of  oil  exports, 
especially  during  the  1972-74  period,  when  petroleum  revenues 
rose  as  a  proportion  of  GDP  from  2  percent  to  8.4  percent.  Mean- 
while, revenues  from  nonpetroleum  commodity  exports  declined 
from  18.7  percent  of  GDP  in  1972  to  13.8  percent  in  1975.  In  ef- 
fect, the  government  substituted  the  taxation  of  oil  for  the  taxa- 
tion of  other  traditional  products. 

This  policy  caused  no  harm  until  1975,  when  the  volume  of 
petroleum  exports  began  to  moderate  and  oil  revenues  declined 


112 


The  Economy 


relative  to  GDP.  As  the  gap  between  public  revenues  and  expen- 
ditures widened,  budget  deficits  became  the  norm,  and  the  govern- 
ment resorted  increasingly  to  foreign  borrowing  as  a  substitute  for 
declining  tax  revenues  from  nonoil  products.  Between  1976  and 
1979,  the  foreign  debt  more  than  quadrupled;  after  1979  the  rate 
of  borrowing  decelerated,  but  still  the  foreign  debt  had  doubled 
by  the  end  of  1986  (see  fig.  14).  In  1983,  as  foreign  banks  reduced 
the  amount  of  credit  available  to  the  government,  unpopular  auster- 
ity measures  were  adopted  to  help  reduce  the  public-sector  deficit. 

The  oil  bonanza  encouraged  the  government  to  undertake  two 
deficit-producing  policies.  First,  the  government  used  about  50  per- 
cent of  total  public  revenues  from  oil  exports  to  subsidize  domes- 
tic consumption  of  such  items  as  food  products,  electricity,  and 
gasoline  and  other  oil  derivatives.  Government  subsidies  to  con- 
sumers reached  a  peak  of  10  percent  of  GDP  in  1981 .  Second,  the 
government  increased  substantially  its  public-sector  employment 
and  public  capital  expenditures.  Although  the  labor  force  increased 
at  an  average  annual  rate  of  only  2.8  percent  between  1970  and 
1984,  public- service  employment  rose  at  an  average  annual  rate 
of  7  percent  during  the  same  period.  A  moderate  expansion  in  public 
capital  expenditures  during  the  1974-82  period  contributed  to  im- 
provements in  the  transportation  and  utility  infrastructure  and  also 
in  water  and  sewerage  systems.  During  this  period,  public  capital 
spending  increased  from  7.3  percent  of  GDP  to  10.1  percent  of 
GDP.  Overall  government  revenue,  however,  had  declined  by  1 
percent  of  GDP  between  1973  and  1982.  The  public-sector  deficit 
in  1982  represented  7.5  percent  of  GDP,  most  of  which  was  financed 
by  foreign  borrowing. 

The  sharp  drop  in  the  international  price  of  petroleum  in  1986. 
followed  a  year  later  by  a  US$700-million  loss  of  oil  revenue  in 
the  aftermath  of  the  March  1987  earthquake,  generated  increased 
foreign  borrowing  by  the  government,  reduced  debt-service  pay- 
ments, and  induced  the  government  to  print  money  to  make  up 
for  revenue  shortfalls.  To  help  keep  inflation  down  to  32.5  per- 
cent in  1987  (about  a  5-percent  increase  over  1986),  liquidity  was 
restricted  in  the  private  sector  by  raising  bank  reserve  requirements. 
This  policy  made  it  difficult  to  acquire  a  commercial  loan  during 
the  second  half  of  1987. 

Although  oil  production  reached  near-record  levels  of  310,000 
barrels  per  day  following  the  repair  of  the  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipe- 
line in  August  1987,  international  crude  oil  prices  remained  low, 
averaging  about  US$17.70  for  that  year.  The  government's  failure 
to  raise  domestic  energy  prices  or  reduce  spending  in  other  areas 
contributed  to  a  fiscal  deficit  approaching  12  percent  of  GDP. 


113 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


BILLIONS  OF  U.S.  DOLLARS 
12-,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , — 


75      76      77      78      79      80      81      82      83      84      85      86      87      88  89 


YEAR 


Figure  14.  Foreign  Debt,  1975-89 

Real  GDP  improved  8  percent  in  1988,  mainly  as  the  result  of 
increases  in  crude  petroleum  exports.  The  government's  deficit 
reached  about  12  percent  of  GDP.  The  government  controlled  the 
fiscal  deficit  by  doubling  domestic  fuel  prices,  eliminating  wheat 
import  subsidies,  and  increasing  electricity  rates  by  40  percent  for 
household  users  and  60  percent  for  industrial  users. 

In  1989  the  fiscal  budget  totalled  US$1.4  billion,  of  which  49 
percent  was  financed  by  oil  export  revenues  and  most  of  the  re- 
mainder through  taxes.  About  38  percent  of  expenditures  went  to 
meet  foreign  debt  payments  after  April,  10  percent  for  internal 
investment,  and  the  balance  to  meet  internal  debt  payments  and 


114 


The  Economy 


current  government  expenditures.  During  1989  the  Borja  adminis- 
tration accelerated  efforts  to  curtail  public  spending,  but  the  deficit, 
10  percent  of  GDP,  was  still  too  high  to  be  fiscally  sound.  The 
government  continued  its  tight  money  policies,  sustaining  high  in- 
terest rates  and  strict  credit  requirements,  especially  for  noncor- 
porate consumers. 

Monetary  and  Exchange  Rate  Policies 

The  Monetary  Board,  created  in  1948,  formulated  the  govern- 
ment's monetary,  credit,  and  public  debt  policies,  including  main- 
tenance of  a  stable  currency,  management  of  the  foreign-exchange 
reserves,  control  of  import  and  export  permits,  and  regulation  of 
international  transactions.  The  Central  Bank  of  Ecuador  was  the 
official  government  bank,  responsible  for  carrying  out  the  policies 
of  the  Monetary  Board  and  for  supervising  the  activities  of  pri- 
vate banks  (see  Financial  System,  this  ch.).  The  Central  Bank  also 
issued  the  sucre  (S/),  the  Ecuadorian  unit  of  currency.  Notes  were 
issued  in  denominations  of  5,  10,  20,  50,  100,  500,  and  1,000  sucres; 
copper-zinc  coins  in  denominations  of  5,  10,  20,  and  50  centavos; 
and  a  pure  nickel  1 -sucre  coin. 

The  official  exchange  rate  was  used  for  foreign  debt  repayment 
and  import  transactions.  During  the  1970s,  the  currency's  exchange 
rate  had  remained  fixed  at  S/25  =  US$1 .  At  the  end  of  December 
1983,  after  a  series  of  currency  adjustments,  the  rate  stood  at 
S/54  =  US$1.  The  Feb  res  Cordero  administration  quickened  the 
pace  of  currency  rate  adjustments.  In  September  1984,  Febres 
Cordero  changed  currency  transactions  from  the  official  to  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  intervention  exchange  rate.  The  official  exchange  rate 
was  set  at  S/67  =  US$1,  or  a  24-percent  devaluation  in  compari- 
son with  the  rate  prevailing  in  December  1983.  During  1985  the 
sucre  depreciated  a  total  of  19  percent.  The  shock  of  a  US$15  per 
barrel  drop  in  the  value  of  Ecuadorian  crude  oil  between  Decem- 
ber 1985  and  April  1986  forced  the  government  to  devalue  the 
currency  another  14  percent  in  January;  a  rate  of  S/109  =  US$1 
held  until  July.  This  last  devaluation  was  part  of  a  reform  package 
that  included  a  15-percent  increase  in  prices  paid  to  farmers  and 
further  reductions  in  import  tariffs  to  discourage  smuggling  and 
thereby  increase  tariff  revenues. 

To  help  set  the  government's  fiscal  house  in  order  and  to  help 
persuade  foreign  creditors  to  provide  essential  foreign  exchange, 
in  mid- 1986  Febres  Cordero  ordered  an  across-the-board  5  per- 
cent spending  cut.  Febres  Cordero,  however,  faced  with  a  serious 
political  setback  to  his  party  in  midterm  elections,  lacked  the  will 
and  support  to  fully  implement  planned  austerity  measures. 


115 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


In  August  1986,  Febres  Cordero  decreed  that  all  private- sector 
transactions  would  take  place  at  the  private  free-market  exchange 
rate  used  by  the  private  sector  for  overseas  trade.  This  action  and 
the  devaluation  of  the  official  sucre  exchange  rate  produced  a 
35-percent  decline  in  the  value  of  the  national  currency.  Mone- 
tary board  officials  took  these  measures  to  protect  the  country's 
diminishing  dollar  reserves  and  to  boost  nonoil  exports  by  making 
them  more  competitive  in  price. 

The  lifting  of  foreign-exchange  controls  for  private- sector  im- 
ports in  1986  and  the  government's  tightened  monetary  and  credit 
policies  resulted  in  a  strong  demand  for  dollars  to  finance  imports. 
This  pressure  on  the  sucre  led  to  an  oscillating  free-market  exchange 
rate  during  1987.  By  September  1987,  the  free-market  rate  had 
reached  S/206  =  US$1.  Inflationary  pressures  also  began  to  have 
a  significant  impact  on  the  exchange  rate.  In  1987  the  consumer 
price  index  showed  a  32.5  percent  inflation  rate  for  that  year, 
depreciating  the  value  of  the  sucre  by  the  end  of  the  year  to 
S/280  =  US$1 .  Capital  flight  and  inflationary  pressures  contributed 
significantly  to  the  devaluation  of  the  sucre  by  an  additional  56 
percent  during  the  first  half  of  1988,  from  S/280  to  S/550  =  US$1 . 

In  a  last-ditch  effort  to  improve  his  popularity  and  project  a 
populist  image,  Febres  Cordero  increased  government  spending 
and  allowed  the  Central  Bank  to  loosen  controls  on  public- sector 
financing  during  the  final  seven  months  of  his  administration.  The 
monthly  inflation  rate  averaged  7.16  percent  in  1988,  reflecting 
relaxed  government  credit  policies  as  well  as  increased  food  prices 
brought  on  by  a  drought  and  by  faulty  agricultural  policies  during 
1987.  These  policies  included  insufficient  credit  to  farmers  and  price 
controls  that  dampened  their  incentive  to  plant. 

As  he  prepared  to  assume  the  presidency  in  mid- 1988,  Borja  un- 
veiled an  economic  stabilization  package  of  restrictive  measures 
aimed  at  stimulating  GDP  growth,  devaluing  the  sucre  to  control 
imports  and  save  foreign-exchange  earnings,  and  reducing  the 
central  government's  fiscal  deficit,  which  had  reached  12  percent 
of  GDP.  Although  the  new  president  permitted  price  increases  for 
some  food  items,  he  sought  to  keep  monetary  growth  below  the 
rate  of  inflation  as  a  restraint  on  overall  price  increases.  Interest 
rates  were  allowed  to  rise.  In  August  the  Central  Bank  initiated 
a  gradual  adjustment  of  the  exchange  rate,  devaluing  the  currency 
by  S/2.5  per  week.  In  1989  Borja' s  anti-inflationary  policies  had 
begun  to  pay  off,  even  though  the  consumer  price  index  increased 
from  58  percent  in  1988  to  76  percent  in  1989. 

During  1988  the  free-market  value  of  the  sucre  fluctuated  some- 
what, ending  the  year  at  about  S/500  =  US$1.  By  year  end  1989, 


116 


The  Economy 


however,  the  sucre  traded  at  S/648  =  US$1.  Throughout  1989  the 
government  maintained  its  contractive  monetary  policy  to  help  con- 
trol inflation  and  sought  to  narrow  the  gap  between  the  official  and 
free-market  exchange  rates.  By  December  1989,  these  policies  had 
produced  mixed  results.  The  inflation  rate  dropped  to  an  annual 
rate  of  54  percent  in  December  1989,  but  real  wages  and  salaries 
declined  markedly,  and  the  country's  fiscal  deficit  climbed  to  17  per- 
cent of  GDP.  Overall  GDP  growth  in  1989  did  not  exceed  1  percent. 

Government  Budget  Process 

Ecuador  had  a  complex  and  splintered  budget  process.  Only 
about  65  percent  of  tax  revenues  were  dedicated  to  financing  the 
national  budget.  The  remainder  were  earmarked  for  direct  and 
automatic  allocation  to  autonomous  agencies,  state  enterprises,  and 
local  governments  on  a  predetermined  basis.  Despite  tax  reform 
efforts  in  the  1980s,  several  funds  continued  outside  the  regular 
budget  process.  About  5  percent  of  income,  for  example,  was  desig- 
nated for  revenue  sharing  with  100  municipalities  and  20  provin- 
cial governments.  This  system,  which  did  not  require  recipients 
to  justify  their  need  for  the  automatically  appropriated  sums, 
reduced  the  amount  of  economic  planning  and  fiscal  control  that 
could  be  exercised  by  policy  makers.  Not  only  did  recipient  agen- 
cies and  local  governments  lack  the  incentive  to  be  frugal,  but  the 
central  government  was  left  with  inadequate  funds  to  begin  new 
programs  or  establish  new  agencies  as  needed. 

With  the  national  budget,  preparations  for  current  and  for  cap- 
ital expenditures  were  each  handled  differently.  The  Ministry  of 
Finance  and  Credit  established  current  expenditures  based  on  ac- 
tual budgets  from  the  previous  year,  allowing  for  increases  need- 
ed to  offset  inflation.  The  National  Development  Council  (Consejo 
Nacional  de  Desarrollo — Conade)  formulated  a  budget  proposal 
for  all  capital  expenditures  relying  on  project  requests  from  public 
agencies,  which  was  sent  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Credit; 
a  national  budget  plan  was  then  drafted  at  the  ministry  and  for- 
warded to  the  National  Congress  (Congreso  Nacional — hereafter, 
Congress). 

Authorization  for  both  current  and  capital  expenditures  was  com- 
plete when  Congress  passed  the  budget  plan,  but  disbursements 
against  authorizations  were  at  the  discretion  of  the  Treasury.  The 
Constitution  requires  each  budget  to  be  balanced,  but  throughout 
the  1980s  deficits  were  the  norm. 

In  1987,  of  total  government  revenues,  65  percent  was  derived 
from  taxes  on  income  and  capital  gains,  13.7  percent  from  domestic 
taxes  on  goods  and  services,  17.3  percent  from  taxes  on  interna- 
tional trade  and  transactions,  2  percent  from  other  taxes,  and  2 


117 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

percent  from  nontax  revenues.  Total  revenues  for  that  year  repre- 
sented about  18.5  percent  of  Ecuador's  gross  national  product 
(GNP— see  Glossary). 

During  the  same  year,  of  total  government  expenditures,  11.8 
percent  was  earmarked  for  the  military,  24.5  percent  for  educa- 
tion, 7.3  percent  for  health,  0.9  percent  for  housing  and  social  secu- 
rity, 19.8  percent  for  economic  services,  and  35.7  percent  for  other 
purposes.  Total  expenditures  represented  16.3  percent  of  GNP; 
the  overall  budget  deficit  represented  2.1  percent  of  GNP. 

Human  Resources  and  Income 

Composition  of  Labor  Force 

In  1987  about  3.3  million  people,  or  33  percent  of  Ecuador's 
total  population,  were  estimated  to  be  economically  active.  The 
economically  active  population  was  almost  evenly  divided  between 
the  self-employed  and  wage  earners.  Agriculture  remained  the  larg- 
est employer  in  1987,  but  the  previous  fifteen  years  had  seen  the 
total  percentage  of  the  work  force  employed  in  this  sector  drop  from 
almost  half  (46  percent)  to  just  slightly  over  a  third  (35  percent) 
(see  table  11,  Appendix).  The  service  sector  experienced  the  larg- 
est growth,  with  the  percentage  of  the  work  force  employed  in 
government  and  other  services  rising  from  17  to  24  percent  from 
1974  to  1987.  Manufacturing  and  commerce  each  employed  about 

10  percent  of  the  economically  active  populace  in  1987. 
Although  the  percentage  of  the  economically  active  population 

employed  in  manufacturing  declined  from  12  percent  in  1974  to 

1 1  percent  in  1987,  the  percentage  engaged  in  commerce  rose  from 
10  percent  to  12  percent  over  the  same  period.  Artisan  manufac- 
turing, defined  as  firms  employing  up  to  thirteen  workers,  declined 
compared  with  larger- scale  factory  manufacturing.  Employment 
in  manufacturing  also  shifted  to  larger  urban  areas;  in  the  late  1980s, 
over  half  of  the  labor  force  engaged  in  manufacturing  was  in  the 
provinces  that  included  Quito  and  Guayaquil. 

In  the  late  1980s,  analysts  estimated  the  median  age  for  the  total 
labor  force  to  be  slightly  under  thirty.  When  broken  down  by  sex, 
however,  data  showed  that  women  in  the  work  force  tended  to  be 
younger.  The  median  age  for  men  alone  was  over  thirty.  Other 
employment  statistics  broken  down  by  gender  revealed  a  higher 
ratio  of  women  employed  in  urban  areas,  whereas  men  had  higher 
percentages  of  employment  in  rural  districts. 

Employment  Indicators  and  Benefits 

Figures  for  unemployment  and  underemployment  varied  and 
were  considered  unreliable,  but  analysts  agreed  that  both  problems 


118 


The  Economy 

I 

increased  during  the  1980s.  Unemployment  in  urban  areas  was 
officially  estimated  at  10.2  percent  in  1987,  up  from  about  6  per- 
cent in  1975.  According  to  government  statistics,  underemploy- 
ment climbed  from  25  percent  in  1975  to  40  to  50  percent  in  1987. 
Underemployment  in  rural  areas  was  particularly  high  and  had 
proven  an  intractable  problem. 

The  government  set  minimum  wages  and  increased  them  fre- 
quendy  to  keep  abreast  of  inflation  and  devaluations  of  the  currency. 
Minimum  wages  alone,  however,  did  not  accurately  represent  eco- 
nomic conditions  of  the  average  worker  because  Ecuadorian  labor 
enjoyed  an  extensive  system  of  mandatory  fringe  benefits.  For  ex- 
ample, the  average  wage  earner  was  entitled  to  a  yearly  bonus  equal 
to  three  months  of  his  or  her  basic  monthly  wage  and  to  a  monthly 
cost-of-living  and  transportation  allowance.  Paid  vacations,  over- 
time pay,  and  severance  pay  were  all  obligatory.  These  and  other 
supplements  could  raise  a  wage  earner's  average  monthly  income 
by  as  much  as  70  percent  over  his  or  her  basic  wage.  Workers  also 
benefited  from  legislation  making  it  difficult  to  fire  employees. 

Organized  Labor 

Because  of  the  government's  strong  regulation  of  the  economy 
and  direct  control  over  wages  and  prices,  organized  labor  directed 
its  challenges  against  the  government  rather  than  against  the  pri- 
vate sector.  Even  disputes  between  labor  and  government,  however, 
lacked  the  acrimony  or  frequency  found  elsewhere  in  Latin  Amer- 
ica, largely  because  a  succession  of  populist  governments  curried 
favor  with  low-income  groups  by  conceding  economic  benefits  and 
expanded  worker  rights.  With  little  struggle,  workers  gained  the 
right  to  organize,  to  strike  and  bargain  collectively,  to  withhold 
union  dues  from  paychecks,  to  work  a  forty-hour  week,  and  to 
receive  minimum  wage  and  social  security  benefits.  Thus,  while 
the  legal  framework  favored  union  development,  government  en- 
dorsement of  benefits  undercut  the  power  of  union  leadership.  High 
underemployment  and  rising  unemployment  in  the  1980s  also 
moderated  aggressive  bargaining  (see  Political  Forces  and  Interest 
Groups,  ch.  4). 

Labor- government  relations  became  more  strained  during  the 
Febres  Cordero  presidency,  however,  because  of  that  administra- 
tion's free-market  philosophy.  Labor  called  two  national  strikes  in 
1987,  a  one-day  stoppage  on  March  25  to  protest  rises  in  gasoline 
and  transportation  prices  and  a  second  strike  on  October  28  to  de- 
mand the  ouster  of  the  minister  of  government  and  justice.  The 
first  stoppage  was  highly  successful  and  showed  an  unprecedented 
degree  of  unity  among  Ecuador's  divergent  labor  groups.  The 


119 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

second,  more  political  in  nature  instead  of  being  focused  on  mone- 
tary issues,  had  much  less  impact  on  national  activity. 

In  contrast  to  growing  tension  between  organized  labor  and 
government,  the  number  of  conflicts  and  strikes  centered  on  col- 
lective bargaining  issues  with  the  private  sector  declined  during 
the  1980s.  Analysts  attributed  the  decline  to  the  increasing  reluc- 
tance of  the  average  worker  to  risk  his  or  her  job  in  the  face  of 
rising  unemployment  and  a  deteriorating  economy.  The  most  seri- 
ous strikes  during  this  period  involved  work  stoppages  by  public- 
sector  employees,  usually  teachers  or  university  personnel.  Short 
strikes  by  petroleum  workers  and  employees  of  the  state  electric 
utility  also  occurred. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture  and  fishing  were  the  country's  largest  employers  in 
the  late  1980s,  providing  nearly  half  of  all  export  earnings.  Including 
livestock  raising,  forestry,  and  fishing,  agriculture  generated  almost 
16  percent  of  the  GDP  in  1986  and  nearly  18  percent  in  1987.  The 
three  principal  export  crops — bananas,  coffee,  and  cocoa — alone 
accounted  for  2.4  percent  of  the  total  GDP  in  1986,  while  livestock 
raising  contributed  5.3  percent  of  the  GDP,  and  forestry  and  fish- 
ing contributed  1.1  and  1.9  percent,  respectively. 

Land  Use  and  Tenure 

Data  on  land  use  varied  widely  and  were  often  considered  by 
analysts  as  unreliable  or  at  best  an  approximation  of  actual  num- 
bers. In  the  mid-1980s,  for  example,  estimates  of  cropland  ranged 
from  1.6  to  2.5  million  hectares  out  of  the  total  land  area  of  27.1 
million  hectares.  Different  sources  put  the  amount  of  pastureland 
at  4.4  or  4.8  million  hectares.  Estimates  for  the  total  land  area 
suitable  for  agriculture  showed  an  even  wider  variation,  from  less 
than  50  percent  to  as  high  as  90  percent. 

Over  half  of  the  cultivated  land  was  in  the  Costa  (coastal  region), 
about  a  third  in  the  Sierra,  and  the  remainder  dispersed  through- 
out the  Oriente  region.  The  Costa,  with  the  exception  of  the  area 
near  the  Santa  Elena  Peninsula,  had  generally  fertile  land  with  a 
climate  conducive  to  agriculture.  Altitude,  rainfall,  and  soil  com- 
position determined  land  use  in  the  Sierra.  The  intermontane  basins 
near  Quito  and  farther  south  near  Cuenca  and  Loja  offered  the 
most  productive  Sierra  lands,  whereas  the  basins  surrounding 
Latacunga  and  Riobamba  had  dry  and  porous  soil  and  the  least 
fertile  lands.  Higher  areas  of  the  Sierra  contained  grasslands  suitable 
only  for  grazing  or  cold-tolerant  crops,  such  as  potatoes. 


120 


A  peasant  family  in  the  Sierra 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Miguel  Say  ago) 


Modern  land  tenure  patterns  developed  from  Spanish  colonial 
land  systems.  The  Spanish  encountered  large  native  populations 
in  the  Sierra  and  established  the  encomienda  system  whereby  the 
crown  granted  individual  colonists  rights  to  land  and  the  Indians 
who  lived  there.  This  system  gradually  produced  haciendas  worked 
by  a  "captive"  labor  force  composed  of  huasipungueros  (see  Spanish 
Colonial  Era,  ch.  1;  Peasants,  ch.  2).  These  huasipungueros  worked 
without  salary  in  return  for  the  farming  rights  to  minifundios  (small 
plots)  on  the  haciendas.  In  many  cases,  the  huasipungueros  were 
bought  or  sold  with  the  hacienda.  Large-scale  agriculture  developed 
later  in  the  Costa,  where  farming  for  export  used  sharecroppers 
or  paid  labor  to  harvest  crops.  The  monetary  labor  system  that 
developed  in  the  Costa  began  to  compete  with  the  feudal  system 
of  the  Sierra  for  cheap  labor. 

Pressure  to  reform  feudal  agricultural  practices  came  from 
abroad,  from  humanitarian  and  liberal  elements  within  the  coun- 
try, and  from  large  landowners  in  the  Costa,  who  needed  addi- 
tional cheap  labor.  A  land  reform  law  enacted  in  1964,  the  Land 
Reform,  Idle  Lands,  and  Settlement  Act,  outlawed  the  huasipungo 
system  and  also  set  up  the  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Agrarian  Re- 
form and  Settlement  (Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de  Reforma  Agraria 


121 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

y  Colonizacion — IERAC)  to  administer  the  law  and  to  expropri- 
ate idle  arable  land  for  redistribution  to  farmers.  The  law  outlawed 
absentee  ownership  and  limited  the  size  of  holdings  to  800  hect- 
ares of  arable  land  in  the  Sierra,  2,500  hectares  of  arable  land  in 
the  Costa,  and  1 ,000  hectares  of  pastureland  in  either  region.  The 
law  also  set  the  minimum  amount  of  land  to  be  granted  in  the  redis- 
tribution at  4.8  hectares.  Revisions  of  the  law  in  the  early  1970s 
required  that  all  land  with  absentee  landlords  be  sold  to  the  tenants 
and  that  squatters  be  permitted  to  acquire  title  to  land  they  had 
worked  for  three  years. 

Although  IERAC  made  some  progress  initially,  political  oppo- 
sition slowed  implementation  of  the  land  reform  act.  IERAC 
received  little  government  funding  and  was  not  permitted  to  ac- 
tively encourage  expropriation.  Later  amendments  to  the  land  re- 
form act  exempted  all  farms  that  were  efficiently  run.  In  addition, 
redistributed  land  was  frequently  poor  or  on  mountainsides  because 
the  large  landowners  kept  fertile  valley  lands  for  themselves.  Ex- 
cept for  a  few  showcase  examples,  farmers  on  minifundios  received 
no  government  assistance  or  services  to  make  the  plots  productive. 
In  spite  of  these  difficulties,  however,  by  1984  over  700,000  hect- 
ares had  been  distributed  to  79,000  peasants. 

Distribution  of  the  land  remained  highly  unequal.  In  1982,  80 
percent  of  the  farms  consisted  of  less  than  ten  hectares;  yet  these 
small  farms  accounted  for  only  15  percent  of  the  farmland.  Five 
percent  of  the  farms  had  more  than  fifty  hectares,  but  these  large 
farms  represented  over  55  percent  of  the  land  under  cultivation. 
In  addition,  minifundios  were  more  likely  to  be  found  in  the  Sierra 
in  areas  of  poor  soil  or  with  poorer  growing  conditions  than  in  other 
areas. 

Agricultural  censuses  revealed  that  over  three-quarters  of  the 
farms  were  worked  by  their  owners.  About  12  percent  of  the  farms 
were  occupied  by  families  that  did  not  hold  title  to  the  land  but 
rented  it,  sometimes  hiring  additional  laborers.  Sharecroppers  or 
communal  farmers  cultivated  the  remaining  7  percent. 

Although  intensely  cultivated,  minifundios  in  the  Sierra  could  not 
sustain  the  region's  occupants.  Because  of  the  higher  wages  for 
nonagricultural  jobs,  many  farmers  held  unskilled  jobs  in  the  cities 
while  family  members  stayed  on  the  land  to  grow  crops  for  home 
use  or  for  sale  (see  Migration  and  Urbanization,  ch.  2).  A  study 
in  the  late  1970s  indicated  that  over  half  of  small  farm  earnings 
came  from  off  the  farm. 

Patterns  of  cultivation  ranged  from  primitive  to  modern,  with 
the  more  modern  methods  generally  used  in  the  Costa,  where  much 
of  the  production  was  geared  for  export.  In  1982  Ecuador  had  fewer 


122 


The  Economy 


than  7,000  tractors  in  use.  Ox-drawn  plows  were  used  on  some 
farms,  and  digging  sticks  were  used  for  cultivation  on  slopes.  High 
prices  limited  the  use  of  chemicals;  manure  was  the  common  form 
of  fertilizer  in  the  Sierra,  but  farmers  had  increased  the  use  of  pesti- 
cides and  fungicides. 

Sizeable  areas  of  land,  estimated  at  over  320,000  hectares,  were 
under  irrigation  using  ditches  dug  by  individual  farmers,  and  about 
40,000  hectares  were  irrigated  under  government- supported  irri- 
gation projects.  State  support  for  irrigation  schemes  began  in  1944 
with  the  creation  of  the  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Hydraulic  Resources 
(Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de  Recursos  Hidraulicos — Inerhi).  Inerhi's 
largest  project,  inaugurated  in  1970,  brought  water  to  10,000  hect- 
ares of  land  in  Pichincha  Province. 

Crops 

A  variety  of  temperature  and  rainfall  patterns  resulted  in  a  diver- 
sity of  tropical  and  temperate  crops  (see  table  12,  Appendix). 
Moderate  or  cool  temperatures  in  highland  areas  allowed  the  cul- 
tivation of  products  usually  associated  with  more  northern  latitudes. 
In  the  Costa,  a  warm  climate,  fertile  soils,  and  proximity  to  ports 
led  to  large-scale  production  of  such  export  crops  as  coffee,  bananas, 
sugar,  cocoa,  palm  oil,  and  rice.  Smaller  plots  in  the  Sierra  produced 
potatoes,  corn,  beans,  wheat,  barley,  and  tea.  Larger  farms  prac- 
ticed dairy  farming  as  well  as  increasing  production  of  nontradi- 
tional  crops  such  as  cut  flowers,  asparagus,  and  snow  peas.  Farmers 
planted  some  coffee  and  tea  in  transition  areas  between  the  Sierra 
and  the  Oriente,  but  in  general  the  Oriente's  poor  soil  made  it  badly 
suited  to  agriculture. 

Ecuador  began  marketing  bananas  abroad  after  World  War  II. 
By  1947  bananas  had  become  the  country's  leading  export  crop. 
Capitalizing  on  problems  with  hurricanes,  disease,  and  labor  un- 
rest in  the  traditional  banana- growing  regions  of  Central  Amer- 
ica, Ecuador  emerged  as  the  world's  largest  exporter  of  bananas 
by  the  mid-1980s.  The  main  banana-producing  areas  were  the 
eastern  parts  of  Los  Rios,  Guayas,  and  especially  El  Oro  provinces. 
Banana  production  involved  few  very  large  or  very  small  planta- 
tions; most  ranged  from  80  to  120  hectares. 

In  1969  the  Ecuadorian  National  Board  of  Planning  and  Eco- 
nomic Coordination  recommended  that  land  devoted  to  banana 
cultivation  be  more  than  halved  and  that  the  higher  yielding, 
disease-resistant  Cavendish- type  bananas  replace  the  traditional 
Gros  Michel  variety.  This  latter  change  prompted  modifications 
in  production  patterns.  Cavendish  bananas  bruise  easily  and 
require  more  careful  handling.  In  addition,  they  cannot  tolerate 


123 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


transport  in  open  trucks,  so  boxing  must  take  place  at  the  planta- 
tion. Centralized,  specialized  packing  meant  the  end  of  small-farm 
production.  Since  the  new  variety  had  triple  the  yield  of  the  Gros 
Michel  banana,  the  government  realized  that  the  hectares  planted 
in  bananas  needed  to  be  reduced  to  avoid  a  sharp  drop  in  world 
prices.  Statistics  showed  the  change:  land  devoted  to  bananas 
dropped  from  200,000  hectares  in  1972  to  about  110,000  in  1980, 
yet  production  remained  fairly  constant.  In  1987,  2.4  million  tons 
of  bananas  were  produced  on  120,000  hectares  of  land;  1.4  mil- 
lion tons  were  exported. 

Coffee,  introduced  into  the  country  early  in  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, was  the  second  most  valuable  crop  throughout  the  1980s. 
Ecuador  produced  both  arabica  and  robusta  varieties,  with  over 
half  of  the  plantings  in  the  hilly  areas  of  Manabf  Province;  most 
of  the  remaining  plantings  were  found  in  the  western  foothills  of 
the  Andes  south  of  Guayaquil.  In  1987  over  380,000  hectares  were 
devoted  to  coffee,  and  373,000  tons  were  produced.  Most  of  this 
coffee  was  exported.  Coffee  was  generally  grown  on  small  land- 
holdings  with  about  half  the  land  planted  in  coffee  trees  alone  and 
the  rest  planted  with  coffee  trees  mixed  with  cacao,  citrus  fruits, 
bananas,  or  mangoes. 

The  small  size  of  typical  coffee  farms  usually  resulted  in  poor 
production  techniques,  yields,  and  quality.  Much  of  the  coffee  pro- 
duced retained  the  pulp  after  processing  and  therefore  brought  a 
lower  price  on  world  markets.  Other  than  establishing  minimum 
prices  for  coffee,  the  government  provided  little  technical  assistance 
to  coffee  farmers. 

Cocoa  was  the  mainstay  of  the  economy  in  colonial  times.  The 
Spanish  found  the  Indians  cultivating  cocoa  when  they  arrived  in 
the  sixteenth  century,  and  it  first  became  an  export  crop  in  1740. 
Produced  on  large  Costa  plantations,  the  crop  was  nearly  wiped 
out  by  a  fungal  disease  in  the  1920s.  Low  world  prices  during  the 
Great  Depression  further  discouraged  production,  and  the  plan- 
tations were  broken  up  and  diversified  into  rice,  sugar,  corn,  and 
bananas.  After  World  War  II,  increased  prices  and  new  disease- 
resistant  strains  revitalized  the  industry. 

Most  cocoa  production  took  place  on  small  farms,  frequentiy  only 
to  provide  supplemental  income  to  the  farmer.  Most  small  producers 
preferred  traditional  cultivation  techniques  and  did  not  harvest  the 
beans  in  years  when  the  price  was  low.  In  contrast,  the  few  large 
plantation  owners  systematically  replaced  older  trees  with  newer 
disease-resistant  varieties  and  used  fertilizer  to  increase  yields.  Most 
cocoa  farmers  grew  an  aromatic  variety  used  for  flavoring.  In  1987, 
311,000  hectares  produced  57,000  tons  of  cocoa  beans. 


124 


Field  worker  in 
a  banana  orchard 
Courtesy  World  Bank 


125 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Sugarcane  was  grown  widely,  both  in  the  Sierra  and  in  the  Costa. 
Over  44,000  hectares  were  planted  in  1987,  producing  3  million 
tons  of  sugarcane.  The  sugar  extraction  rate  from  the  cane  was 
about  10  kilograms  of  sugar  from  100  kilograms  of  cane.  Sugar 
was  an  important  export  crop  in  the  1960s  and  1970s,  but  produc- 
tion levels  dropped  in  the  1980s,  and  the  supply  could  not  satisfy 
the  domestic  market,  so  that  Ecuador  had  to  import  refined  sugar. 

Almost  all  of  the  sugarcane  grown  in  the  Costa  was  used  to  make 
centrifugal  sugar,  so  called  because  of  the  means  of  extracting  the 
sugar.  Centrifugal  sugar  was  the  type  most  used  in  foreign  trade. 
Sugarcane  in  the  Costa  was  grown  on  large  plantations  and  pro- 
cessed in  one  of  the  five  mills  located  east  of  Guayaquil.  Sierra 
peasants  grew  sugarcane  on  small  landholdings  and  used  much  of 
the  cane  for  noncentrifugal  sugar,  mainly  in  a  form  known  aspanela 
(a  raw  brown-sugar  cake).  Growers  also  marketed  molasses,  a  sugar- 
cane by-product,  exporting  some  of  it  and  using  the  rest  for  the 
domestic  manufacture  of  alcohol  or  for  livestock  feed. 

Farmers  cultivated  rice,  a  staple  of  the  Ecuadorian  diet,  mainly 
on  the  flood  plains  of  the  Guayas  River  Basin  in  Guayas  and  Los 
Rfos  provinces.  Rice  production  fluctuated  depending  upon  the 
weather,  but  during  the  1980s  the  harvest  increased  by  an  annual 
average  of  7  percent.  In  1987,  780,000  tons  were  produced  on 
276,000  hectares  of  land.  In  years  of  good  harvest,  growers 
produced  enough  rice  to  meet  domestic  demand  and  to  export  a 
surplus.  Because  of  low  international  market  prices  for  rice, 
however,  the  government  policy  stabilized  rice  production  at  the 
level  required  to  meet  domestic  needs. 

Corn,  another  basic  foodstuff,  had  been  grown  since  precolo- 
nial  times.  Corn  was  widely  grown  throughout  the  country  and 
could  be  planted  from  sea  level  to  an  altitude  of  2,200  meters.  Farm- 
ers used  about  half  the  crop  for  animal  feed,  particularly  for  poultry. 
In  1987  over  422,000  tons  were  produced  on  460,000  hectares. 

Barley,  a  crop  introduced  by  the  Spaniards,  proved  highly  adapt- 
able to  the  rigorous  climate  of  the  Sierra.  Its  tolerance  for  cold  and 
severe  weather  allowed  it  to  be  grown  at  higher  altitudes  than  corn. 
Widely  planted  on  small  landholdings  in  the  central  highlands  areas, 
it  was  grown  both  for  food  and  for  malt  for  the  beer  industry. 
Figures  for  1987  showed  43,000  tons  produced  on  61 ,000  hectares. 

Wheat,  almost  all  of  which  was  used  to  make  bread,  was  for- 
merly widely  grown  in  the  Sierra.  Ironically,  however,  as  bread 
increased  in  popularity  and  replaced  potatoes  and  corn  as  a  dietary 
staple,  domestic  wheat  production  decreased.  Perhaps  the  most 
significant  reason  was  that  the  government  introduced  subsidies 
on  wheat  imports  in  order  to  ease  the  effects  of  the  inflation  that 


126 


Irrigated  fields  in 
Imbabura  Province 
Courtesy  Patricia  Mothes 


began  in  the  oil-boom  years  of  the  1970s.  As  a  result,  consump- 
tion of  the  more  expensive  domestic  wheat  declined  from  46  per- 
cent in  1946  to  7*  percent  in  1980.  The  breakup  of  the  large 
wheat-producing  haciendas  in  the  Sierra  also  contributed  to  lower 
levels  of  wheat  production. 

Cotton  and  hemp  were  the  principal  fiber  crops.  The  govern- 
ment carried  out  a  program  in  the  1980s  to  increase  both  the  qual- 
ity and  quantity  of  cotton  produced.  Output  increased,  and  by  1986 
Ecuador  was  nearly  self-sufficient  in  cotton.  Hemp  was  turned  into 
Manila  hemp  fiber  used  to  produce  tea  bags.  Lesser  fiber  crops 
included  aloe,  which  was  used  to  make  cloth  for  sacks,  and  ramie, 
which  was  woven  into  a  cloth  resembling  linen. 

Tea  was  produced  near  Puyo  on  the  eastern  slopes  of  the  Andes 
at  elevations  of  about  1,000  meters.  An  even  distribution  of  rain- 
fall allowed  for  year-round  harvests,  a  condition  not  usually  found 
in  tea-producing  nations. 

African  palms  were  widely  planted  and  were  the  main  source 
of  vegetable  oil.  The  government  promoted  and  financed  large 
plantings  to  cut  imports  of  expensive  cooking  oils.  Although  not 
as  high  in  oil  content  as  the  nuts  of  the  royal  palm,  previously  the 
principal  domestic  source  of  vegetable  oil,  African  palms  bore  more 
nuts  and  matured  more  quickly. 

Cottonseed,  sesame  seed,  peanuts,  coconuts,  and  soybeans  were 
other  sources  of  vegetable  oils.  Cottonseed  production  fluctuated, 


127 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

depending  upon  weather  conditions.  Sesame  could  be  planted  from 
two  to  three  times  a  year  on  the  warm  coastal  plains  where  it  took 
only  three  months  to  mature.  About  9,000  hectares  of  peanuts  were 
planted,  but  most  of  the  production  was  used  for  direct  consump- 
tion as  peanuts  rather  than  for  crushing  into  oil.  Production  of  coco- 
nut oil  varied  because  most  coconuts  were  consumed  directly  and 
not  processed.  Soybean  plantings  had  increased,  and  soybeans  could 
be  grown  both  in  the  Costa  and  lower  reaches  of  the  Sierra. 

Ecuador  was  one  of  the  world's  major  castor  bean  producers. 
Although  the  bean  was  inedible,  its  oil  was  used  for  medicinal  pur- 
poses and  as  a  lubricant  in  precision  tools.  The  plant  could  be  grown 
on  dry  lands  where  it  was  uneconomical  to  raise  other  crops,  or 
planted  along  with  corn,  peanuts,  or  cotton. 

Black  tobacco,  Ecuador's  traditional  type,  made  up  the  bulk  of 
the  3,600  tons  grown  in  1987.  Blond  tobacco  for  cigarettes  was  in- 
troduced in  the  late  1960s  and  was  produced  mainly  in  Loja 
Province.  The  growth  of  a  domestic  cigarette  industry  was  slowed, 
however,  by  the  high  volume  of  cigarettes  smuggled  into  the  coun- 
try. 

Farmers  also  grew  numerous  minor  crops  for  domestic  food  con- 
sumption or  for  export  in  small  quantities.  Growers  raised  pears, 
peaches,  apples,  berries,  grapes,  and  plums  in  the  Sierra  and  citrus 
fruit,  avocados,  mangoes,  and  a  wide  variety  of  tropical  fruits  in 
the  Costa.  Important  vegetable  crops  included  garlic,  onions,  cab- 
bage, lettuce,  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  and  various  types  of  melons 
and  peppers.  Spices  included  annatto  seed,  anise,  and  cardamon. 
Rubber  and  mocora  and  toquilla  grass,  used  to  make  Panama  hats, 
were  minor  nonfood  crops. 

Livestock  and  Poultry 

Livestock  raising  represented  an  important  part  of  agricultural 
output  and  grew  significantly  throughout  the  1980s.  Livestock  was 
produced  primarily  for  domestic  consumption  and  was  one  of  the 
few  agricultural  products  found  throughout  the  country.  Although 
animal  husbandry  was  widespread,  it  was  generally  practiced  on 
small  plots  of  land. 

The  Costa  and  Oriente  produced  mainly  beef  cattle  with  dairy 
cattle  found  mostly  in  the  Sierra.  Cattle  were  grazed  on  Costa  land 
otherwise  unsuited  for  agriculture,  such  as  the  hilly  terrain  in  Man- 
abf  Province,  seasonally  flooded  river  plains,  or  semiarid  parts  of 
the  far  south.  Dairy  production  in  the  Sierra  typically  was  carried 
on  in  fertile  valleys,  particularly  between  Riobamba  and  the  Colom- 
bian border.  Beef  cattle  were  fairly  new  to  the  Oriente,  although 
large  parcels  of  land  were  suitable  for  grazing.  The  beef  industry 


128 


The  Economy 


in  the  Oriente  suffered  a  serious  setback  in  1987,  however,  when 
the  earthquake  damaged  roads  used  to  transport  the  beef  to  mar- 
kets. Ecuador  had  about  3.7  million  head  of  beef  cattle  in  1986. 

The  1980s  saw  an  improvement  in  stock  with  the  introduction 
of  European  and  Asian  breeds.  The  native  criollo  breed  represented 
about  half  of  all  cattle,  with  the  rest  a  cross  between  criollo  and 
Holstein,  Brown  Swiss,  or  Jersey  for  dairy,  and  criollo  and  Santa 
Gertrudis  or  Charolais  for  beef.  The  absence  of  veterinarians  and 
medicines  remained  a  problem,  however,  and  diseases  and  para- 
sites plagued  many  herds. 

Besides  cattle,  livestock  included  pigs,  sheep,  and  a  small  num- 
ber of  goats.  The  number  of  pigs  increased  dramatically  in  the  1980s 
to  about  5  million  in  1986;  they  were  raised  nationwide,  but  the 
greatest  concentration  was  in  coastal  areas.  Sheep  numbered  2  mil- 
lion in  1986  and  were  generally  found  in  pastureland  higher  than 
3,000  meters  in  altitude.  Analysts  estimated  that  Ecuador  had  fewer 
than  300,000  goats  in  1986. 

Poultry  raising  was  another  rapid-growth  area  in  the  1980s, 
although  floods  in  1983  from  El  Nino  caused  a  sharp  drop  in  produc- 
tion. Chickens  were  raised  both  for  eggs  and  for  meat,  and  in  1986 
there  were  more  than  45  million  birds.  Historically,  peasant  families 
raised  chickens,  but  the  1980s  saw  the  establishment  of  large-scale 
poultry  enterprises  near  larger  cities. 

Fishing 

The  Pacific  waters  along  the  coast  and  as  far  west  as  the  Gala- 
pagos Islands  had  abundant  and  varied  fish  resources.  The  impor- 
tance of  marine  resources  to  the  economy  increased  steadily,  and 
fisheries  were  one  of  the  faster- growing  industries  in  the  1980s,  as 
both  export  sales  and  domestic  consumption  increased. 

Tuna  represented  the  most  important  of  the  many  varieties  of 
saltwater  fish.  Most  of  the  tuna  caught  was  skipjack  or  albacore, 
although  the  yellowfin  was  the  variety  most  often  exported.  Ecua- 
dor modernized  its  tuna  fleet  in  the  late  1980s  with  the  addition 
of  refrigerated  vessels  and  the  leasing  of  several  large  seiners  (nets) 
from  the  United  States. 

Shrimp  production  was  the  strongest  growth  area  in  the  fishing 
industry.  Although  ocean  shrimping  declined,  Ecuador's  warm  cli- 
mate and  shallow  coastal  waters,  especially  in  the  Gulf  of  Guaya- 
quil, provided  ideal  conditions  for  shrimp  farming.  In  1986  Ecuador 
overtook  Mexico  as  the  world's  largest  shrimp  exporter. 

Other  important  fish  included  sardines,  anchovies,  and  mack- 
erel. Most  of  the  anchovies  and  sardines  were  canned  for  the  ex- 
port market,  with  the  remainder  ground  into  fishmeal  for  poultry 


129 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

feed.  Except  for  a  few  trout  hatcheries  in  the  Sierra,  the  country 
gave  little  attention  to  freshwater  fish. 

Forestry 

An  estimated  50  percent  of  Ecuador  (about  14  million  hectares) 
was  forested,  about  half  of  this  in  government-owned  lands. 
Although  officially  contributing  only  4  percent  to  Ecuador's  GDP, 
the  forest  resources  were  important  because  of  wood's  wide  use 
for  fuel  and  rural  construction.  Erosion  and  deforestation  from 
widespread  cutting  of  timber  for  fuel  had  emerged  as  significant 
national  problems  in  the  1980s. 

The  original  forests  in  the  Sierra  had  long  ago  been  cleared  to 
provide  space  for  pastures  and  wood  for  fuel  and  construction. 
Eucalyptus  trees  introduced  from  Australia  in  the  1800s  supplied 
the  Sierra  with  fuel  and  construction  material  and  helped  prevent 
soil  erosion.  In  the  1980s,  the  northern  province  of  Esmeraldas  con- 
tained most  of  the  forests  in  the  Costa  and  supplied  the  majority 
of  the  country's  wood.  The  jungles  of  the  Oriente  contained  several 
thousand  known  species  of  trees,  the  most  valuable  of  which  was 
the  balsa.  Isolation  from  population  centers  and  lack  of  roads  ham- 
pered exploitation  of  the  Oriente' s  resources,  however.  Other  forest 
products  included  cinchona  bark  for  quinine,  ivory  palm  nuts  for 
buttons,  and  kapok  from  the  ceiba  tree  for  mattress  stuffing. 

Natural  Resources  and  Energy 

The  natural  resource  sector  of  the  Ecuadorian  economy  contrib- 
uted almost  15  percent  to  the  GDP  in  1986,  with  the  petroleum 
industry  providing  virtually  all  of  that  total.  Although  analysts  be- 
lieved that  Ecuador  had  numerous  mineral  deposits,  few  metals 
had  been  exploited.  Hydroelectric  power  from  several  large  dams 
provided  the  primary  source  of  energy. 

Petroleum  and  Natural  Gas 

Petroleum  was  the  single  most  important  element  in  the  Ecua- 
dorian economy,  accounting  for  over  14  percent  of  the  GDP  in 
1986,  two-thirds  of  all  export  revenues  in  that  year,  and  much  of 
the  foreign  investment.  In  1987  petroleum  and  mining  together 
accounted  for  only  about  8  percent  of  GDP  because  of  a  signifi- 
cant drop  in  petroleum  production,  but  estimates  for  1988  indi- 
cated that  petroleum  production  had  risen,  exceeding  its  1986  level. 
Although  Ecuador's  level  of  production  in  the  late  1980s  ranked 
near  the  bottom  of  the  thirteen  members  of  OPEC,  it  exceeded 
all  countries  in  Latin  America  except  Mexico  and  Venezuela. 


130 


A  fishing  village  in  Esmeraldas  Province 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Miguel  Say  ago) 


Petroleum  was  first  discovered  in  the  early  1900s  both  on  and 
offshore  from  Salinas  on  the  Santa  Elena  Peninsula  west  of  Guaya- 
quil. More  than  100  million  barrels  of  crude  petroleum  were  re- 
moved in  six  decades  of  exploitation;  by  the  mid-1980s,  however, 
Costa  production  had  fallen  to  less  than  1,000  barrels  per  day  (bd). 
Old,  expensive-to-maintain  equipment  produced  high  operating 
costs,  making  continued  exploitation  uncertain. 

The  Oriente,  however,  had  long  since  eclipsed  the  Costa  as  the 
center  of  Ecuador's  petroleum  activity.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  vast 
majority  of  Ecuador's  1.6  million  barrels  of  proven  reserves  lay 
in  the  northern  part  of  the  Oriente,  between  the  Napo  River  and 
the  Colombian  border  (see  fig.  11).  This  area  formed  part  of  a  rich 
oil-bearing  region  extending  from  southern  Colombia  through 
Ecuador  and  northeastern  Peru.  Indeed,  analysts  believed  that  this 
region  represented  one  of  the  richest  oil-bearing  areas  of  the  Western 
Hemisphere. 

Although  exploration  in  the  Oriente  began  in  the  1920s,  petro- 
leum was  not  actually  found  until  a  consortium  formed  by  the 
Texaco  Petroleum  and  Gulf  Oil  companies  discovered  several  rich 
fields  near  Lago  Agrio  (now  Nueva  Loja)  in  1967.  The  success  of 
the  Texaco-Gulf  exploration  attracted  other  companies,  and  over 


131 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  next  two  decades  more  than  fifty  new  wells  began  producing 
commercial  quantities  of  crude  petroleum.  Production  in  1989  had 
risen  to  over  1.1  billion  barrels,  over  99  percent  from  the  Oriente 
fields  (see  table  13,  Appendix). 

Ecuador  built  the  503-kilometer  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline  to 
carry  crude  petroleum  from  the  Oriente  fields  across  the  Andes 
to  a  new  refinery  just  south  of  Esmeraldas.  Although  the  pipeline 
was  designed  to  carry  as  much  as  400,000  bd,  volume  averaged 
just  over  300,000  bd  in  the  late  1980s.  A  landslide  caused  by  a  se- 
vere earthquake  in  March  1987  destroyed  forty  kilometers  of  an 
above-ground  section  east  of  Quito.  To  keep  exports  from  stop- 
ping completely,  Ecuador  quickly  constructed  a  thirty-eight- 
kilometer  spur  from  the  Oriente  fields  to  Colombia's  pipeline.  Oil 
was  then  either  exported  directly  as  crude  from  Colombian  ports 
or  taken  by  tanker  from  Colombia  to  Ecuador's  largest  refinery 
at  Esmeraldas.  Although  this  stopgap  measure  allowed  for  some 
petroleum  to  be  exported,  production  at  the  Oriente  fields  had  to 
be  trimmed  by  more  than  half  for  the  five  months  it  took  to  repair 
the  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline. 

Unlike  many  of  the  larger  OPEC  countries,  Ecuador  refined  less 
than  half  of  the  petroleum  it  produced.  Most  of  the  country's 
123,000  bd  refining  capacity  was  located  at  two  refinery  complexes, 
one  at  Esmeraldas  and  a  complex  of  three  refineries  at  the  Santa 
Elena  oil  fields.  The  Esmeraldas  refinery  had  a  90,000  bd  capac- 
ity, whereas  the  three  older  Santa  Elena  refineries  had  a  combined 
output  of  32,000  bd.  Ecuador's  newest  refinery,  completed  in  1987 
near  Nueva  Loja  in  the  Oriente  fields,  had  a  capacity  of  1 ,000  bd. 

Control  and  ownership  of  petroleum  production  and  refining  was 
held  by  foreign  oil  companies,  the  government-owned  Petroecua- 
dor  which  replaced  the  former  Ecuadorian  State  Petroleum  Cor- 
poration (Corporacion  Estatal  Petrolera  Ecuatoriana — CEPE),  or 
consortia  composed  of  both.  Petroecuador  assumed  complete  con- 
trol of  the  Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline  in  1989  and  announced  it 
would  take  over  most  other  foreign  interests  in  the  petroleum  in- 
dustry in  the  early  1990s. 

In  addition  to  abundant  supplies  of  petroleum,  observers  esti- 
mated that  the  country  had  natural  gas  reserves  in  the  Oriente  and 
offshore  in  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil  totalling  400  billion  cubic  meters. 
Reserves  in  the  Oriente  were  collocated  with  petroleum  deposits. 
Producers  flared  most  of  the  gas  associated  with  petroleum  drill- 
ing, using  only  small  amounts  as  fuel.  Distance  from  markets  made 
exploitation  of  the  gas  uneconomical,  although  a  small  plant  to 
harness  the  gas  as  a  fuel  was  completed  near  Nueva  Loja  in  the 
mid-1980s.  Reserves  in  the  Gulf  of  Guayaquil,  thought  to  be  among 


132 


The  Economy 


the  largest  in  Latin  America,  remained  unexploited  because  of  an 
uncertain  domestic  market  for  natural  gas  and  a  legal  dispute  be- 
tween the  government  and  foreign  companies  over  ownership. 

Mining  and  Minerals 

Mining  played  a  small  role  in  the  economy  in  the  1980s,  con- 
tributing only  0.7  percent  to  the  GDP  in  1986  and  employing  about 
7,000  persons.  Inaccessibility  of  the  regions  where  minerals  were 
located  and  the  incomplete  exploration  of  resources  hampered  min- 
ing activities.  Although  observers  believed  that  Ecuador  had  reserves 
of  gold,  silver,  copper,  zinc,  uranium,  lead,  sulfur,  and  kaolin, 
as  well  as  limestone,  the  latter  dominated  the  industry.  Miners  gen- 
erally produced  limestone  in  many  small  operations  countrywide 
and  used  it  in  local  cement  plants. 

Gold,  largely  forgotten  since  its  early  exploitation  in  the  sixteenth 
century,  grew  in  importance  in  the  1980s;  by  1987  Ecuador  was 
exporting  2.4  tons  per  year.  The  southern  Sierra  region  held  the 
country's  largest  deposits;  the  newest  veins  were  discovered  in  the 
southeastern  province  of  Zamora-Chinchipe. 

In  1985  Congress  passed  a  new  law  to  encourage  foreign  explo- 
ration and  investment  in  the  mining  industry.  Designed  to  simplify 
regulation  of  the  industry,  this  legislation  also  offered  higher  fi- 
nancial incentives"  for  the  investor  and  lower  overall  taxation  and 
established  the  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Minerals  (Instituto  Ecuatori- 
ano  de  Minerfa — Inemin)  under  the  Ministry  of  Energy  and  Mines. 

Electric  Power 

The  period  from  1976  to  1985  saw  a  rapid  rise  in  the  demand 
for  electricity  and  in  the  construction  of  generating  facilities.  Dur- 
ing the  same  period,  the  country  switched  from  primarily  oil-fired 
thermal  plants  to  hydroelectric-power  generation.  In  1986  total 
generating  capacity  reached  1,802  megawatts,  and  the  country 
produced  5,202  gigawatt-hours  of  electricity.  Although  Ecuador 
had  a  larger  generating  capacity  from  thermal  plants  than  from 
hydroelectric  facilities,  70  percent  of  the  electricity  produced  in  1986 
came  from  hydroelectric  sources  because  many  of  the  thermal  plants 
sat  idle  or  underutilized.  Completion  of  three  new  hydroelectric 
complexes  under  construction  in  the  late  1980s  was  expected  to 
allow  complete  dependence  on  hydroelectric  sources  by  1992. 

The  Amaluza  complex  on  the  Paute  River  near  Cuenca  offered 
Ecuador's  largest  single  source  of  power.  Current  from  this  com- 
plex was  carried  to  Guayaquil  and  to  Quito  via  a  230-kilovolt 
transmission  line.  Disruptions  of  these  lines  caused  occasional  black- 
outs, and  to  provide  for  alternate  routing,  a  second  230-kilovolt 


133 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


line  was  completed  in  1988.  Expansion  of  the  grid  continued 
throughout  the  early  1980s,  until  by  1984  more  than  half  the  house- 
holds nationwide  had  access  to  electricity.  Access  for  urban  house- 
holds considerably  exceeded  that  for  rural  dwellings,  however. 

A  government  agency,  the  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Electrifica- 
tion (Instituto  Ecuatoriano  de  Electrification — Inecel),  functioned 
as  the  nation's  generation  and  transmission  company.  Inecel  in 
turn  sold  electricity  to  local  distribution  companies  over  which  it 
exercised  some  control  through  majority  ownership  of  their  stock. 

Manufacturing 

Industrialization  occurred  later  in  Ecuador  than  in  most  other 
Latin  American  countries.  As  late  as  1960,  the  small  industrial  sec- 
tor consisted  almost  entirely  of  textile  production,  food  process- 
ing, and  artisan  activity.  Manufacturing  began  to  develop  in  the 
mid-1960s,  and  during  the  1970s,  spurred  by  petroleum  revenues 
and  exports  to  other  nations  in  the  Andean  Common  Market 
(Ancom;  also  known  as  the  Andean  Pact),  manufacturing  became 
the  most  dynamic  sector  of  the  economy.  Manufacturing  stagnated 
in  the  1980s,  however,  with  an  average  annual  growth  of  only  0.8 
percent  for  the  period  1981-87.  In  1987  it  accounted  for  over  17 
percent  of  the  GDP. 

Food  processing  and  textile  manufacturing  accounted  for  almost 
60  percent  of  the  total  value  of  manufacturing  in  1986.  Nonmetal- 
lic  minerals  and  metals  comprised  12  percent  of  the  total  value; 
all  other  industries  accounted  for  the  balance  (see  table  14,  Ap- 
pendix). 

Most  industrial  establishments  were  small  and  barely  more  than 
handicraft  operations.  A  government  industrial  census  in  the  early 
1980s  listed  more  than  35,000  firms,  but  only  28  of  these  had  more 
than  500  employees;  more  than  31,000  had  from  1  to  4  workers. 
Individual  proprietors  owned  and  managed  most  firms.  Shoemaking 
shops,  woodworkers,  or  furniture  makers  represented  nearly  half 
of  the  establishments  listed  in  the  census. 

Guayaquil  was  the  most  important  industrial  center,  followed 
by  Quito.  Together  the  two  cities  accounted  for  about  two-thirds 
of  total  factory  employment.  Agricultural  and  beverage  process- 
ing plants,  sawmills,  shipyards,  iron  foundries,  and  cement  and 
chemical  plants  were  Guayaquil's  main  industries.  Textile  produc- 
tion and  food  processing  topped  the  list  of  industrial  activities  in 
Quito.  The  government  had  made  an  attempt  in  the  early  1970s 
to  disperse  industrial  activity  by  promoting  industrial  parks  in  other 
cities,  with  some  success. 


134 


Workers  in  a  cooperative  in  Chimborazo  Province 
Courtesy  Inter -American  Foundation  (Miguel  Say  ago) 
Sewing  children  }s  clothes  in  a  small  shop  in  Guayaquil 
Courtesy  Inter -American  Foundation  (Miguel  Sayago) 


135 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Sugar  refining,  rice  milling,  and  flour  milling  were  among  the 
largest  sectors  in  the  food-processing  industry.  Two  sugar  mills 
dominated  the  industry  and  processed  most  of  the  sugar  used  domes- 
tically. Rice  milling  was  concentrated  in  the  Costa  and  consisted 
of  numerous  publicly  owned  mills,  as  well  as  many  smaller  pri- 
vate ones.  Most  flour  mills  were  located  near  larger  cities  in  the 
Sierra  and  used  locally  grown  wheat;  the  three  large  flour  mills 
near  Guayaquil  used  mainly  imported  wheat.  Ecuador  also  had 
a  large  baking  industry,  and  nearly  all  cities  had  commercial  bak- 
eries producing  bread  and  cakes. 

The  textile  industry,  which  ranked  next  to  food  processing  in 
value  of  production,  was  concentrated  in  the  Sierra,  where  it  origi- 
nated as  an  outgrowth  of  home  weaving.  Most  textile  plants  re- 
mained small,  although  one  Quito  firm  was  among  the  largest 
employers  in  the  country. 

The  construction  industry  showed  a  steady  decline  during  the 
1980s  and  accounted  for  only  about  4  percent  of  the  GDP  in  1987. 
Because  over  95  percent  of  the  construction  in  Ecuador  resulted 
from  government-financed  projects,  the  industry  remained  highly 
vulnerable  to  periods  of  austerity  in  government  spending.  Indeed, 
the  sector's  only  growth  year  in  the  decade  of  the  1980s  occurred 
in  1987,  reflecting  large-scale  highway  rebuilding  after  the  earth- 
quake. High  interest  rates  and  a  shortage  of  cement  also  hampered 
construction  projects. 

Artisan  activity  constituted  a  large  part  of  the  manufacturing 
labor  force.  Although  many  of  the  artisans  had  considerable  skills 
in  such  occupations  as  weaving,  their  wages  were  among  the  lowest 
in  the  labor  force,  and  as  machine-weaving  became  more  wide- 
spread their  skills  were  increasingly  obsolete.  In  the  1980s,  the  gov- 
ernment offered  special  credits  and  loans  to  encourage  a  transition 
from  artisan  workshops  to  small  factories. 

The  largest  number  of  artisans  produced  clothing  and  furniture. 
This  group  included  dressmakers,  tailors,  shoemakers,  cabinetmak- 
ers, and  carpenters.  Several  thousand  additional  artisans  were  gold- 
smiths or  silversmiths. 

Services 

The  service  sector  constituted  the  largest  component  of  the  Ecua- 
dorian economy,  accounting  for  almost  50  percent  of  the  GDP  in 
1987.  The  largest  parts  of  the  service  sector  were  wholesale  and  retail 
trade  at  29  percent,  financial  services  at  23  percent,  and  transpor- 
tation and  communications  at  15  percent  of  services.  Although  con- 
tributing half  the  nation's  wealth,  financial  services  were  inadequate, 


136 


The  Economy 


and  the  communication  and  transportation  networks  remained 
underdeveloped . 

Financial  System 

The  country's  modern  finance  and  banking  system  began  in  1948 
with  the  establishment  of  the  Central  Bank.  The  Law  of  the  Mone- 
tary System  of  1961  defined  the  functions  of  the  Central  Bank, 
which  included  issuing  and  stabilizing  the  national  currency,  provid- 
ing credit  to  the  private  sector,  managing  foreign-exchange  reserves, 
controlling  import-export  permits,  carrying  out  the  Monetary 
Board's  policies,  supervising  private  banks,  and  regulating  inter- 
national financial  transactions.  The  bank  also  maintained  a  check 
clearinghouse,  rediscounted  and  made  advances  to  commercial 
banks,  and  published  economic  data. 

In  1989  the  structure  of  the  banking  system  resembled  a  three- 
tiered  pyramid  with  the  Monetary  Board  at  the  apex.  The  Bank 
Superintendency  and  the  Central  Bank  occupied  the  next  tier  and 
lent  funds  to  four  state-owned  financial  institutions.  At  the  bot- 
tom came  the  commercial  banks,  savings  and  loan  associations, 
and  finance  companies,  which  operated  at  the  local  level. 

The  Monetary  Board  regulated  the  entire  banking  and  credit 
system,  including  the  Central  Bank.  In  the  1980s,  the  board's  eleven 
members  included  the  chairman,  appointed  by  the  president  of  Ec- 
uador, and  the  ministers  of  finance  and  credit;  agriculture  and 
livestock;  energy  and  mines;  and  industry,  commerce,  integration, 
and  fishing.  Also  included  were  the  president  of  the  National  Plan- 
ning Board,  two  representatives  of  national  chamber  of  commerce 
organizations,  a  representative  of  the  commercial  banks,  the  general 
manager  of  the  Central  Bank,  and  the  head  of  the  Bank  Superin- 
tendency. The  Monetary  Board's  functions  included  formulating 
the  country's  economic  policy;  determining  interest  rates;  and  set- 
ting Central  Bank  credit  levels,  minimum  reserve  requirements, 
and  exchange  rates. 

The  Bank  Superintendency  supervised  and  controlled  banks, 
finance  companies,  and  insurance  companies.  The  Congress  ap- 
pointed the  head  or  superintendent  from  three  candidates  proposed 
by  the  president.  Funded  by  compulsory  contributions  from  the 
financial  institutions  under  its  control,  the  Bank  Superintendency 
also  collected  and  published  banking  statistics. 

The  national  government  and  the  private  banks  jointly  owned 
the  Central  Bank  and  tasked  it  with  carrying  out  the  policies  of 
the  Monetary  Board  and  for  supervising  the  activities  of  private 
banks.  All  private  banks  in  Ecuador  were  required  to  invest  at  least 


137 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

5  percent  of  their  capital  and  reserves  in  the  Central  Bank,  and 
together  they  owned  the  majority  of  shares  in  the  Central  Bank. 
Headquartered  in  Quito,  the  Central  Bank  had  sixteen  branches 
in  other  cities  and  towns  in  the  late  1980s. 

The  four  major  government-owned  financial  institutions  were 
the  National  Development  Bank  (Banco  Nacional  de  Fomento — 
BNF);  the  Securities  Commission-National  Financial  Corporation 
(Comision  de  Valores-Corporacion  Financiera  Nacional — CV- 
CFN),  more  commonly  known  as  the  National  Financial  Corpo- 
ration (Corporation  Financiera  Nacional — CFN);  the  Ecuadorian 
Housing  Bank  (Banco  Ecuatoriano  de  la  Vivienda — BEV);  and 
the  Development  Bank  of  Ecuador  (Banco  de  Desarrollo  de  Ecua- 
dor— Bede),  formerly  known  as  the  Cooperatives  Bank  of  Ecua- 
dor. Each  institution  had  a  specialized  role:  the  BNF  provided  loans 
for  agriculture  and  industry,  the  CFN  lent  capital  to  industries 
utilizing  local  raw  materials  or  making  handicrafts,  the  BEV 
promoted  low-income  housing,  and  the  Bede  lent  funds  to  local 
credit  cooperatives,  especially  those  in  rural  areas. 

The  thirty-one  commercial  banks  were  the  most  important  finan- 
cial institutions  in  the  country,  attracting  the  major  portion  of 
deposits  and  making  the  largest  percentage  of  total  loans  in  the 
banking  system.  Only  four  of  the  commercial  banks  were  foreign: 
the  United  Holland  Bank  from  the  Netherlands,  Citibank  and  the 
Bank  of  America  from  the  United  States,  and  Lloyd's  Bank  from 
Britain,  formerly  known  as  the  Bank  of  London  and  South  America. 
In  1986  the  Bank  of  Pichincha,  Pacific  Bank,  Philanthropic  Bank, 
People's  Bank,  and  Continental  were  the  five  largest  locally  owned 
commercial  banks. 

Several  other  types  of  private  financial  institutions  existed  in  1988. 
Eleven  savings  and  loan  associations,  26  finance  companies,  123 
cooperative  savings  institutions,  and  4  credit  card  companies  pro- 
vided various  forms  of  financing  or  credit.  The  Ecuadorian  De- 
velopment Finance  Company  (Compania  Financiera  Ecuatoriana 
de  Desarrollo — Cofiec)  was  founded  in  1966  by  local  and  foreign 
commercial  banks,  local  businessmen,  several  international  finance 
firms,  and  the  CFN.  Cofiec  was  an  important  source  of  funds  to 
private  industry,  both  in  the  form  of  loans  and  in  equity  investment. 

Two  stock  exchanges  operated,  one  each  in  Quito  and  Guaya- 
quil. Although  the  Quito  exchange  handled  almost  twice  as  many 
transactions  as  the  Guayaquil  exchange  in  1986,  neither  was  large. 
The  great  majority  of  trading  occurred  in  government  issues  and 
mortgage  bonds,  with  only  a  small  amount  of  trading  in  common 
stocks  or  other  securities.  Most  Ecuadorian  businesses  were  owned 


138 


The  Economy 


by  small  numbers  of  individuals,  and  few  resorted  to  public  financ- 
ing to  raise  capital. 

Tourism 

In  contrast  to  many  other  Latin  American  countries,  Ecuador 
had  a  small  tourist  industry,  and  it  played  only  a  minor  role  in 
the  economy  in  the  1980s.  In  1985  approximately  250,000  tourists 
visited  Ecuador  and  contributed  over  US$200  million  to  the  econ- 
omy. Colombia  was  the  source  of  36  percent  of  the  visitors,  fol- 
lowed by  the  United  States  with  2 1  percent  and  Western  Europe 
with  18  percent.  Ecuador  did  not  include  brief  cross-border  visits 
in  official  tourist  statistics,  so  these  figures  do  not  include  the  many 
Colombian  visitors  who  were  only  on  short  shopping  trips,  taking 
advantage  of  the  generally  lower  prices  in  Ecuador. 

The  government  provided  limited  support  of  tourism,  and  many 
colonial  towns,  ancient  ruins,  and  areas  of  natural  beauty  were  un- 
developed because  of  lack  of  promotion  or  inadequate  infrastruc- 
ture for  visitors.  The  most  popular  tourist  destination  in  the  1980s 
was  the  Galapagos  Islands,  but  concerns  over  the  delicate  and 
unique  environment  limited  large-scale  tourism  there.  The  National 
Directorate  of  Tourism  was  attempting  to  broaden  the  tourist  des- 
tinations available.  . 

Communications 

Although  the  system  underwent  expansion  and  modernization 
in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  telecommunications  remained  underdevel- 
oped with  most  facilities  located  in  Quito  or  Guayaquil.  The  media 
and  broadcast  facilities  likewise  remained  concentrated  in  the  coun- 
try 's  two  main  urban  areas  and  often  displayed  regional  rivalries 
or  biases  in  their  coverage.  Foreign  television,  motion  pictures, 
and  books  dominated  the  entertainment  and  publishing  arena. 

Despite  improvements  beginning  in  1970,  the  telephone  system 
still  failed  to  provide  adequate  service  to  most  customers,  and  fa- 
cilities remained  concentrated  in  Quito  and  Guayaquil.  In  1987 
the  country  counted  343,000  telephone  lines,  70  percent  residen- 
tial and  30  percent  business,  an  average  of  only  3.5  lines  per  100 
inhabitants.  This  compared  poorly  with  averages  for  other 
countries — 5.8  lines  per  100  inhabitants  in  Venezuela,  9.5  in 
Colombia,  and  78.7  in  the  United  States.  Over  three-quarters  of 
the  country's  telephones  were  in  the  capital  and  in  Guayaquil,  with 
most  of  the  remainder  scattered  throughout  provincial  capitals.  In 
rural  areas,  with  about  40  percent  of  the  population,  many  towns 
had  only  one  public  telephone  or  were  totally  without  telephone 


139 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

service.  Customers  in  Quito  and  Guayaquil  took  advantage  of  a 
small  telex  network  with  more  than  3,000  subscribers. 

The  quality  of  telephone  service  remained  poor,  with  frequent 
breakdowns  of  the  entire  system  and  difficulties  in  completing  calls. 
In  the  late  1980s,  much  of  the  equipment  in  the  telephone  switch- 
ing centers  was  obsolete  and  overworked,  and  an  average  of  only 
one- third  of  the  telephone  calls  dialed  could  be  completed.  This 
completion  rate  dropped  to  nearly  zero  on  calls  between  cities  during 
business  hours.  Nearly  all  telephones  were  connected  to  automatic 
exchanges,  and  domestic  long-distance  calls  could  be  dialed  by  cus- 
tomers without  the  assistance  of  an  operator.  International  calls, 
however,  had  to  be  placed  through  an  operator,  with  call  comple- 
tion waits  ranging  from  several  minutes  to  several  hours. 

Most  long-distance  calls  within  the  country  travelled  on  a  960- 
channel  microwave  trunk  that  linked  Quito  with  Guayaquil.  A 
lower-capacity  microwave  route  extended  out  to  smaller  cities  and 
also  ran  north  from  Quito  into  Colombia  and  south  from  Guaya- 
quil into  Peru.  Most  international  calls  were  routed  to  the  ground 
satellite  station  east  of  Quito.  With  a  30-meter  antenna  permanently 
pointed  to  the  International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organi- 
zation's Atlantic  Ocean  satellite,  this  ground  station  could  handle 
more  than  300  simultaneous  telephone  calls  from  Ecuador  to  loca- 
tions in  North  America,  South  America,  and  Europe. 

The  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Telecommunications  (Instituto  Ecu- 
atoriano  de  Telecomunicaciones — Ietel),  a  government-owned  cor- 
poration, provided  all  international  and  domestic  long-distance 
telephone  services,  the  telex  services,  and  95  percent  of  local  tele- 
phone service.  The  Public  Municipal  Enterprise  for  Telephones, 
Potable  Water,  and  Sewers  (Empresa  Publica  Municipal  de  Tele- 
fonos,  Agua  Potable  y  Alcantarillado — Etapa)  provided  local  service 
for  the  remaining  5  percent  of  the  population  with  telephones  in 
the  city  of  Cuenca.  The  Ministry  of  Public  Works  and  Communi- 
cations controlled  both  Ietel  and  Etapa. 

Radio  broadcast  facilities  were  numerous,  and  all  areas  of  the 
country  could  receive  at  least  one  domestic  station.  As  with  other 
communication  services,  however,  Quito  and  Guayaquil  dominated 
mediumwave  amplitude-modulation  (AM)  stations;  of  the  more 
than  260  stations  nationwide,  more  than  40  were  in  Guayaquil  and 
three  dozen  in  the  capital.  Most  broadcasting  was  in  Spanish,  but 
a  few  rural  stations  had  programming  in  Quichua  and  Shuar.  Six- 
teen stations  of  the  National  Radio  (Radio  Nacional)  were  pub- 
licly owned;  the  remainder  were  in  private  hands  and  loosely 
organized  into  five  networks.  The  country  had  an  estimated  3  mil- 
lion radio  receivers. 


140 


The  Economy 


In  addition  to  mediumwave  broadcasts,  in  1989  Ecuador  boasted 
thirty-nine  domestic  shortwave  stations,  one  international  short- 
wave transmitter,  and  several  frequency-modulation  (FM)  stations. 
Shortwave  frequencies  were  used  to  transmit  to  isolated  areas  in 
the  Oriente  or  to  reach  a  broader  audience  nationwide.  The  coun- 
try's sole  shortwave  station  intended  for  an  international  audience, 
the  Quito-based  HCJB,  the  "Voice  of  the  Andes,"  was  missionary- 
run  with  primarily  religious  programming.  FM  service  was  found 
primarily  in  Quito  and  Guayaquil. 

Ecuador  had  only  ten  television  stations — four  in  Quito,  three 
in  Guayaquil,  and  one  each  in  Esmeraldas,  Portoviejo,  and  Cuenca. 
Channel  10  in  Quito,  however,  maintained  a  network  of  small  relay 
stations  so  that  most  of  the  country  could  receive  its  signal.  Each 
station  was  required  to  broadcast  a  minimum  of  five  minutes  of 
literacy  programming  every  day.  Ecuador  had  the  same  television 
system  as  the  United  States,  thus  permitting  the  use  of  United 
States-made  television  sets  or  the  taping  and  viewing  of  United 
States  programs  on  video  recorders  without  modification  or  con- 
version. A  1989  estimate  showed  600,000  television  receivers  in- 
cluding 250,000  color  sets. 

The  National  Postal  Enterprise  provided  postal  service  and  main- 
tained more  than  500  offices  throughout  the  country.  Service  was 
slow  and  unreliable,  however,  with  frequent  reports  of  thefts  or 
loss  of  mail. 

The  press  was  concentrated  in  Guayaquil  and  Quito,  each  city 
having  four  daily  newspapers.  El  Universo,  an  independent  paper 
published  in  Guayaquil,  had  the  largest  circulation  in  1989,  with 
225,000  subscribers,  followed  by  El  Comercio,  a  conservative,  bus- 
iness paper  from  Quito  with  a  circulation  of  130,000  (see  The 
Media,  ch.  4). 

Ecuador  had  no  national  news  agency.  Foreign  wire  services  with 
offices  in  Quito  and  Guayaquil  included  Associated  Press  and 
United  Press  International  from  the  United  States,  Reuters  from 
Britain,  the  West  German  Deutsche  Press-Agentur,  Agencia  EFE 
from  Spain,  the  Cuban  Prensa  Latina,  TASS  from  the  Soviet 
Union,  and  the  New  China  (Xinhua)  News  Agency. 

Motion  pictures  remained  a  popular  source  of  entertainment  and 
communication.  Because  Ecuador  produced  no  films  domestically, 
all  movies  were  imported  and  either  dubbed  or  subtitled  in  Span- 
ish. Movie  attendance  was  high,  with  an  average  of  5.5  visits  to 
a  theater  annually.  Increased  sales  of  video  cassette  recorders  made 
home  viewing  of  movies  as  well  as  sports  events  and  foreign  tele- 
vision programs  increasingly  popular. 


141 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 
Transportation 

Until  the  twentieth  century,  the  transport  pattern  reflected  and 
reinforced  the  historical  division  of  the  country  into  two  antagonistic 
regions — the  Costa  and  the  Sierra  (see  Natural  Regions,  ch.  2). 
Transport  routes  on  the  Costa  were  laid  out  to  move  export  crops 
from  the  production  areas  to  the  ports,  and  routes  in  the  Sierra 
ran  north-south  through  the  inter- Andean  valleys.  Interregional 
movement  was  confined  to  a  few  crude  pack  trails  that  permitted 
only  limited  exchange  of  goods  or  people  between  the  two  regions. 

Completion  of  the  Guayaquil-Quito  railroad  in  1908  provided 
the  first  effective  interregional  link  and  cut  the  travel  time  between 
the  two  cities  from  twelve  days  to  twelve  hours.  In  1989  the  rail 
system  totaled  965  kilometers,  all  owned  and  operated  by  the  State 
Railways  Company  (Empresa  Nacional  de  los  Ferrocarriles  del 
Estado — ENFE)  (see  fig.  15).  The  principal  line  in  the  late  1980s 
remained  the  447-kilometer  link  between  Quito  and  Guayaquil. 
Floods  in  1982  and  1983  disrupted  service  on  this  line,  with  ser- 
vice only  partially  restored  by  early  1989. 

In  the  1950s,  the  rail  system  added  two  extensions:  a  spur  south 
to  Cuenca  and,  with  French  help,  an  oudet  to  the  Pacific  from  Quito 
to  the  port  of  San  Lorenzo.  The  Quito-San  Lorenzo  line  suffered 
frequent  suspensions  of  service,  and  in  1989  trains  ran  only  on  the 
portion  from  a  point  well  north  of  Quito  to  the  port.  Several  short 
lines,  built  in  the  late  1800s  or  early  1900s  to  transport  agricul- 
tural products  to  ports,  had  all  been  abandoned  by  the  1980s. 

Until  the  1950s,  the  railroads  were  the  prime  mover  of  passengers 
and  freight  and  had  played  an  important  role  in  integrating  the 
economy.  After  World  War  II,  the  government  began  to  stress  in- 
vestment in  the  highway  system,  and  highways  gradually  became 
the  principal  means  of  transportation.  A  comparison  of  statistics 
from  1969  to  1989  illustrates  the  decline  in  the  overall  importance 
of  the  rail  system:  the  amount  of  freight  carried  dropped  from 
260,000  to  37,000  tons,  and  passenger  traffic  declined  from  4.6 
million  trips  to  slightly  over  1.6  million. 

Construction  of  highways  began  on  a  small  scale  in  the  1920s 
and  continued  sporadically  until  after  World  War  II,  when  a  gready 
expanded  effort  created  the  outlines  of  a  network  covering  many 
parts  of  the  country  and  opening  up  vast  tracts  of  land  to  new  set- 
tlement. By  1989  Ecuador  had  about  28,000  kilometers  of  roads, 
of  which  about  3,600  were  paved,  17,400  were  gravel  and  improved 
earth,  and  7,000  kilometers  were  dirt  roads. 

The  1,148-kilometer  Pan  American  Highway  remained  the  old- 
est and  most  heavily  traveled  route  in  the  road  network,  following 


142 


The  Economy 


the  route  of  the  Inca  imperial  highway  through  the  Sierra  and  con- 
necting all  the  towns  along  the  inter- Andean  corridor  between  the 
Colombian  border  and  the  southern  border  with  Peru.  Except  for 
a  twelve-kilometer  segment,  this  highway  was  paved  from  the 
Colombian  border  south  through  the  capital  to  Cuenca.  From 
Cuenca  south  to  the  Peruvian  border,  however,  most  of  the  sur- 
face was  gravel  and  in  fair  condition. 

A  paved  north-south  route  through  the  Costa  from  Esmeraldas 
in  the  north  through  Quayaquil  to  the  Peruvian  border  just  south 
of  Machala  roughly  parallelled  the  Pan  American  Highway.  From 
Quevedo  to  Quayaquil,  this  route  split  into  two  branches  with  the 
eastern  branch  passing  through  Babahoyo  and  the  western  branch 
along  the  Daule  River.  This  highway  carried  an  important  por- 
tion of  the  traffic  in  tropical  produce  of  the  Costa. 

Four  paved  highways  connected  the  Pan  American  Highway  and 
the  north-south  Costa  route.  In  addition,  asphalt  roads  linked 
Guayaquil  with  the  small  port  of  Manta  and  the  oil-producing  area 
of  Salinas  on  the  Pacific.  These  east-west  arteries  served  to  inte- 
grate the  regions,  as  evidenced  by  the  growing  volume  of  goods 
trucked  between  the  Costa  and  the  Sierra. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Oriente  continued  to  suffer  from  an  almost 
total  lack  of  all-weather  highways.  A  few  gravel  or  dirt  roads 
extended  east  from  the  Pan  American  Highway,  mostly  to  oil- 
producing  areas  in  the  northern  part  of  this  region.  Although  usually 
built  by  the  petroleum  companies  for  easier  access  to  their  fields, 
the  roads  served  to  increase  colonization  of  the  Oriente,  and  small 
population  centers  sprang  up  along  their  paths. 

A  large  number  of  bus  lines  and  trucking  companies  provided 
intercity  motor  transport.  The  majority  of  the  trucking  enterprises 
were  small  with  no  schedules  and  were  operated  by  the  owner- 
driver.  Most  bus  owners  and  drivers,  and  a  few  of  the  truck  drivers, 
belonged  to  cooperatives,  which  set  uniform  rates.  Intercity  bus 
service  among  towns  was  frequent  and  inexpensive  but  often 
crowded  and  plagued  by  frequent  vehicle  breakdowns.  In  1986  there 
were  an  estimated  250,000  passenger  cars,  14,000  buses,  and  22,000 
trucks. 

Air  transport  was  fairly  well  developed  with  179  airports,  of  which 
43  had  permanent  surface  runways.  Since  the  1920s  when  com- 
mercial air  service  was  first  established,  airlines  held  a  secure,  if 
limited,  segment  of  the  transport  market.  Because  of  the  short  dis- 
tances between  most  population  centers,  particularly  in  the  Sierra, 
and  the  steadily  expanding  road  network,  few  air  routes  were  heavily 
traveled.  The  largest  volume  of  passenger  and  cargo  traffic  moved 


143 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  15.  Transportation  System,  1989 

between  Quito  and  Guayaquil.  Throughout  most  of  the  Oriente, 
air  travel  provided  the  only  means  of  communication  with  the  rest 
of  the  country. 

Ecuador  had  four  main  airlines,  one  with  both  domestic  and 
international  routes  and  three  smaller  companies  with  mostly 
domestic  service.  Private  interests  originally  established  the  largest 
company — the  Ecuadorian  Aviation  Company  (Compama  Ecua- 
toriana  de  Aviacion — CEA,  known  as  Ecuatoriana) — but  sold  it 
to  the  government  in  1974.  Designated  the  national  airline  of  Ec- 
uador, Ecuatoriana  maintained  service  from  both  Quito  and  Guaya- 
quil to  more  than  a  half  dozen  cities  in  Latin  America  and  four 
in  the  United  States. 


144 


The  Economy 


Water  transport  was  more  important  for  foreign  trade  than  for 
domestic  commerce,  although  the  country  had  well-developed 
coastal  shipping  and  businesses  extensively  used  some  rivers,  par- 
ticularly the  waterways  of  the  Guayas  Basin.  Although  ships  with 
moderate  draught  could  navigate  the  rivers  of  the  Oriente,  only 
small  canoes  and  vessels  were  used  there.  Competition  from  high- 
ways had  diminished  waterborne  traffic,  but  riverboats  continued 
to  ply  traditional  routes  calling  at  towns  and  farming  areas  not 
reached  by  roads.  Boats  sailed  frequently  between  coastal  cities  and 
between  the  mainland  and  the  Galapagos  Islands. 

Ecuador's  ports  carried  about  95  percent  of  all  imports  and  ex- 
ports. Guayaquil  handled  about  60  percent  of  all  seaborne  trade, 
including  most  of  the  agricultural  exports.  The  Old  Port  (Puerto 
Viejo)  was  located  on  the  banks  of  the  Guayas  River;  in  1962  the 
New  Port  (Puerto  Nuevo)  was  built  ten  kilometers  south  of  Guaya- 
quil on  an  estuary  and  connected  to  the  Old  Port  by  a  canal.  The 
New  Port,  Ecuador's  largest,  could  berth  up  to  five  ships. 

Three  other  small  ports  had  limited  trade.  Puerto  Bolfvar,  near 
Machala,  handled  most  of  the  agricultural  exports,  especially 
bananas,  from  the  southern  part  of  the  country.  Coffee,  castor 
beans,  and  frozen  fish  from  the  central  provinces  passed  through 
Manta.  Balao,  sixteen  kilometers  south  of  Esmeraldas,  was  greatly 
expanded  in  the  1970s  to  accommodate  petroleum  exports. 

As  of  1983,  the  national  merchant  marine  consisted  of  130  ves- 
sels with  530,000  gross  registered  tons  (GRT).  Ecuador's  national 
oil  tanker  fleet,  the  Ecuadorian  Petroleum  Fleet,  accounted  for 
164,000  GRT.  The  principal  maritime  carrier,  the  Grancolom- 
bian  Merchant  Fleet,  was  jointly  owned  by  Ecuador  and  Colom- 
bia, and  its  thirty-five  ships  accounted  for  a  total  of  250,000  GRT. 
The  Banana  Fleet  was  a  subsidiary  of  the  state  general  cargo  line, 
the  Ecuadorian  Ship  Transport. 

External  Sector 
External  Debt 

Ecuador's  growing  external  debt  problem  was  linked  to  the  coun- 
try's heavy  dependence  on  volatile  petroleum  export  revenues.  Dur- 
ing the  1970s,  the  government  made  optimistic  forecasts  concerning 
potential  future  revenues  accruing  as  a  result  of  oil  exports,  and 
it  borrowed  heavily  from  foreign  sources  to  help  meet  development 
goals  and  to  finance  large  public-sector  deficits.  In  real  terms, 
government  spending  grew  by  9.6  percent  each  year  during 
1973-82.  Interest  payments  on  the  debt  quintupled  between  1978 
and  1982.  During  1983-85,  while  the  government  implemented 


145 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

austerity  measures  as  it  sought  to  meet  international  debt  obliga- 
tions, Ecuador  successfully  negotiated  with  about  300  foreign  cred- 
itor banks  a  multiyear  refinancing  package  on  a  US$5.2-billion 
portion  of  its  external  debt.  Although  the  rescheduling  agreement 
allowed  Ecuador  twelve  years  to  repay  95  percent  of  its  debt  obli- 
gations, it  eased  the  country's  burden  of  debt  repayments  only  tem- 
porarily. A  US$13  per  barrel  drop  in  international  oil  prices  in 

1986  created  a  serious  revenue  shortfall,  forcing  the  government 
to  announce  in  January  1987  that  it  would  impose  a  three-month 
moratorium  on  payment  of  its  foreign  debt  obligations. 

Ecuador  was  exporting  about  220,000  barrels  of  petroleum  per 
day  in  the  first  few  months  of  1987.  The  earthquake  that  hit  the 
country  in  March  destroyed  forty  kilometers  of  the  vital  Trans-Ec- 
uadorian Pipeline  that  connected  productive  oil  fields  in  the  Oriente 
region  with  port  facilities  just  south  of  Esmeraldas.  Repairs  to  the 
pipeline  were  completed  in  mid- August  1987,  and  by  September 
Ecuador  once  again  was  exporting  about  220,000  to  230,000  bar- 
rels of  oil  per  day.  But  the  loss  to  the  government  of  US$700  mil- 
lion in  oil  export  revenue  during  this  period  was  devastating  and 
undercut  the  country's  ability  to  meet  its  external  debt  obligations. 
Debt  payments  to  foreign  private  lending  institutions  were  not  re- 
sumed until  early  1988,  and  then  only  for  two  months. 

During  1987  the  country's  external  debt  increased  by  about  US$1 
billion  to  US$9.6  billion.  At  the  beginning  of  1988,  Ecuador  faced 
a  debt-servicing  burden  of  US$1.45  billion,  and  foreign-exchange 
reserves  were  nearly  exhausted.  The  international  price  of  Oriente 
crude  had  improved  slightly  during  1987  but  dropped  to  US$12.50 
per  barrel  in  1988.  Government  officials,  mindful  that  the  coun- 
try would  not  earn  enough  export  revenue  in  1988  to  cover  the 
expected  balance-of-payments  deficit  or  to  meet  the  country's  ex- 
ternal debt- service  obligations,  suspended  interest  payments  to  pri- 
vate banks  in  April  1988. 

When  Borja  assumed  the  presidency  in  1988,  Ecuador's  interest 
arrearages  to  private  commercial  banks  amounted  to  almost  US$1 
billion.  In  November  1988,  Ecuadorian  officials  began  a  new  round 
of  negotiations  to  refinance  US$6.5  billion  of  the  country's  grow- 
ing external  debt,  which  by  then  was  approaching  US$1 1  billion. 
At  the  end  of  these  unsuccessful  negotiations,  Ecuador's  Mone- 
tary Board  chairman,  citing  low  oil  prices  and  damage  from  the 

1987  earthquake,  announced  that  service  payments  would  be  re- 
sumed only  after  the  country's  economic  situation  had  improved. 
Foreign  debt  payments  to  commercial  banks  finally  were  resumed 
in  April  1989,  but  creditor  banks  were  doubtful  that  Ecuador  could 
make  payments  sufficient  to  cover  the  accumulated  arrears. 


146 


147 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Meanwhile,  Ecuador  had  not  stopped  making  payments  to  multi- 
lateral lending  organizations,  and  it  secured  new  loans  from  the 
World  Bank  and  the  IMF.  During  the  first  half  of  1989,  more  than 
US$600  million  in  loans,  all  of  which  was  earmarked  for  develop- 
ment purposes,  was  received  from  the  World  Bank.  The  IMF  pro- 
vided Ecuador  with  US$254  million  in  credit  during  1987-88,  and 
an  additional  US$137  million  standby  credit  agreement  was  reached 
in  September  1989. 

Trade  and  Balance  of  Payments 

The  health  of  the  Ecuadorian  economy  was  dependent  on  for- 
eign trade.  But  this  dependence  left  the  country  vulnerable  to  the 
vagaries  of  international  commerce,  especially  the  unpredictabil- 
ity of  prices  for  Ecuadorian  export  goods. 

The  improved  performance  of  the  economy  during  the  1970s 
was  the  result  mainly  of  the  rapid  acceleration  of  Ecuador's  oil  ex- 
ports beginning  in  1972  and  a  sharp  increase  in  international 
petroleum  prices  starting  in  1974.  In  1971  crude  petroleum  exports 
made  up  less  than  1  percent  of  total  exports  and  were  valued  at 
US$1.2  million.  The  volume  of  petroleum  exports  expanded  dra- 
matically in  1972  and  1973;  by  1974  petroleum  made  up  almost 
65  percent  of  the  country's  commodity  exports  and  was  valued  at 
US$792  million.  Although  domestic  consumption  of  petroleum 
derivatives  rose  steadily  and  the  volume  of  Ecuadorian  oil  exports 
moderated  during  the  remainder  of  the  1970s,  the  spectacular  rise 
in  the  early  1980s  of  the  crude  oil  price,  which  reached  a  peak  of 
US$34.50  in  1981,  resulted  in  sharp  increases  in  petroleum  ex- 
port revenue.  The  rapid  decline  in  international  oil  prices  that  began 
in  1986  and  the  1987  suspension  of  crude  petroleum  production 
in  the  aftermath  of  a  destructive  earthquake  produced  a  50-percent 
drop  in  the  value  of  Ecuadorian  crude  petroleum  exports  in  1986-87 
(see  table  15,  Appendix). 

Ecuador's  substantial  income  from  crude  oil  exports  had  posi- 
tive and  negative  effects  on  the  economy.  During  the  1960s,  foreign- 
exchange  reserves  averaged  about  US$25  million.  Because  of  the 
oil  boom,  the  balance-of-payments  situation  improved  during  the 
mid-  to  late  1970s.  Net  foreign-exchange  earnings,  for  example, 
had  reached  US$230  million  by  the  end  of  1973  and  more  than 
US$350  million  in  1974.  This  improvement  in  foreign  exchange 
had  a  positive  impact  on  the  economy,  but  that  gain  was  partially 
wiped  out  by  the  relaxation  of  import  restrictions,  which  allowed 
the  import  volume  to  go  up  almost  50  percent  in  1974.  Growing 
oil  export  revenue  also  encouraged  the  government  to  subsidize 
commodities  such  as  gasoline  and  food  items,  expand  public-sector 


148 


The  Economy 


employment,  increase  government-sponsored  social  benefits,  and 
finance  the  growing  budget  deficit  through  foreign  borrowing. 
Austerity  measures  were  implemented  in  the  mid-1980s  to  reduce 
the  cost  of  subsidized  goods,  but  by  the  end  of  the  decade  the  govern- 
ment had  failed  to  adequately  tackle  its  growing  budget  deficits 
or  its  foreign  debt  payment  problems. 

In  1970  fish,  timber,  and  other  agricultural  products,  mainly 
bananas,  coffee,  cocoa,  and  sugar,  had  accounted  for  almost  90 
percent  of  foreign-exchange  earnings.  But  the  dramatic  increase 
in  petroleum  production  that  began  in  1972  profoundly  altered  the 
country's  long-term  export  structure.  First,  petroleum  displaced 
agricultural  products  as  the  country's  major  export  commodity, 
and,  second,  the  overall  value  of  exports  grew  tenfold  between  1970 
and  1980,  from  US$235  million  in  1970  to  US$2.52  billion  in  1980. 
Between  1974  and  1981 ,  gains  in  export  earnings  were  mainly  the 
result  of  favorable  international  prices  for  Ecuadorian  commodi- 
ties, including  farm  products.  The  value  of  commodity  exports 
leveled  off  during  the  first  half  of  the  1980s  and  then  declined  moder- 
ately to  US$2. 19  billion  in  1986,  reflecting  the  fall  of  international 
crude  petroleum  prices.  The  value  of  commodity  exports  remained 
stable  during  1987,  1988,  and  1989— US$2.0  billion,  US$2.2  bil- 
lion, and  US$2.3  billion,  respectively.  In  1989  petroleum  accounted 
for  about  50  percent  of  export  revenues.  In  the  same  year,  the  value 
of  shrimp  exports  amounted  to  US$348  million;  banana  exports, 
US$316  million;  coffee,  US$191  million;  and  cocoa,  US$73  million. 

Also  during  the  1970s,  imports  rose  by  an  average  of  1 1  percent 
per  annum,  and  the  value  of  imports  grew  steadily  between  1970, 
when  it  stood  at  US$249.6  million,  and  1981,  when  it  stood  at 
US$2.36  billion.  The  value  of  imports  declined  after  1981,  falling 
to  US$1 .6  billion  in  1986.  Although  the  value  of  imports  had  mul- 
tiplied sixfold  since  1970,  the  structure  of  imports  changed  only 
in  minor  details.  Capital  goods  for  industry,  for  example,  repre- 
sented 15.4  percent  of  total  imports  in  1970;  by  1975  capital  goods 
were  averaging  about  22  percent  of  total  imports,  and  they  would 
remain  at  that  level  until  1987.  The  growth  in  imports  of  capital 
goods  was  consistent  with  increases  in  manufacturing  output.  Im- 
ports of  durable  consumer  goods  averaged  about  1 5  percent  of  total 
imports  during  the  early  1980s,  compared  with  an  average  of  slightiy 
less  than  5  percent  during  the  1970s,  when  the  process  of  import 
substitution  (see  Glossary)  for  consumer  goods  was  moderately  more 
successful  than  in  the  1980s.  In  1986,  however,  as  the  government's 
import  restrictions  and  devaluations  of  the  sucre  took  effect,  only 
7 . 7  percent  of  imports  would  come  under  the  category  of  durable 
consumer  goods  (see  table  16,  Appendix). 


149 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

In  1987,  61  percent  of  exports  went  to  the  United  States,  and 
30  percent  of  imports  came  from  the  United  States,  making  that 
country  Ecuador's  main  trading  partner.  Wheat,  assorted  ma- 
chinery, transport  equipment,  and  chemicals  were  the  principal 
United  States  exports  to  Ecuador  in  1987.  Shrimp,  petroleum, 
bananas,  coffee,  and  cocoa  were  the  principal  United  States  im- 
ports from  Ecuador  in  the  same  year.  Other  major  trading  part- 
ners included  the  European  Community,  other  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  countries,  and  Japan  (see  table  17,  Appendix). 

Ecuador's  current-account  balance  varied,  registering  an  aver- 
age yearly  deficit  of  US$100  million  during  the  1970s.  Financing 
the  current-account  deficits  was  not  difficult  as  long  as  Ecuador 
enjoyed  continuing  improvements  in  its  terms  of  trade  (see  Glos- 
sary). By  1977  it  was  clear  that  the  balance  of  payments  was  being 
supported  by  high  oil  receipts  and  external  borrowing.  The  gradual 
decline  of  international  crude  petroleum  prices  beginning  in  1982, 
coupled  with  a  poor  export  performance  during  1982-83,  made 
it  more  difficult  for  the  government  to  secure  external  financing 
from  foreign  commercial  banks.  Export  earnings  fell  by  about  8 
percent  in  1982,  and  despite  a  moderate  reduction  in  the  volume 
of  imports,  the  current-account  deficit  passed  the  US$1  billion  mark, 
which  in  1982  represented  9  percent  of  GDP. 

To  deal  with  the  balance-of-payments  crisis,  in  1982  the  govern- 
ment, in  cooperation  with  an  IMF  fiscal  austerity  program, 
devalued  the  sucre  for  the  first  time  since  1971.  Another  sharp 
devaluation  occurred  in  1983,  when  the  government  also  introduced 
new  exchange  controls,  prohibited  or  limited  the  importation  of 
some  items,  and  reduced  fuel  and  export  subsidies.  During  late 
1982  and  early  1983,  crop  production  and  exports  dropped  sharply 
because  of  the  devastating  effects  of  El  Nino,  but  they  returned 
to  1980  levels  by  mid- 1984.  Meanwhile,  the  government  began 
negotiations  to  reschedule  the  external  debt.  The  austerity  plan, 
although  painful,  helped  Ecuador  to  virtually  eliminate  its  current- 
account  deficit  by  the  end  of  1983.  Ecuador's  current- account  deficit 
was  offset  by  a  virtually  identical  surplus  in  1985. 

In  1986  the  international  price  of  crude  petroleum  dropped 
sharply  to  an  average  of  US$15.35  from  the  previous  year's  aver- 
age of  US$27. 16.  The  result  was  a  decline  in  foreign-exchange  earn- 
ings and  a  return  to  chronic  current-account  deficits  during  the 
1986-89  period.  In  1987,  the  year  of  the  US$700  million  oil  revenue 
loss,  the  current- account  deficit  reached  -US$1.13  billion.  The 
current- account  deficit  improved  in  1988  when  it  stood  at  -US$597 
million;  in  1989  the  deficit  decreased  slightly  to  about  -US$500 
million  (see  table  18,  Appendix).  Nevertheless,  despite  these 


150 


The  Economy 


improvements,  the  prospects  for  Ecuador's  balance  of  payments, 
as  for  its  economy  as  a  whole,  were  uncertain. 

*     *  * 

Relatively  few  book-length  studies  exist  on  the  Ecuadorian  econ- 
omy. The  most  comprehensive  introduction  to  the  subject  can 
be  found  in  David  W.  Schodt's  Ecuador:  An  Andean  Enigma.  Luis 
Mendoza's  Geo-Economia  del  Ecuador  offers  an  excellent,  although 
dated,  examination  of  national  economic  issues.  Specific  economic 
data  may  be  drawn  from  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  quart- 
erly Country  Profile:  Ecuador  and  the  annual  reports  of  Ecuador's 
Central  Bank.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


151 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Priest  playing  a  large  panpipe  (Jama-Coaque  culture) 


ONE  OF  THE  LEAST  POLITICALLY  stable  of  the  South 
American  republics  for  most  of  its  history,  Ecuador  had  86  govern- 
ments and  17  constitutions  in  its  first  159  years  of  independence. 
Only  twenty  of  those  governments  resulted  from  popular  elections, 
and  many  of  the  elections  were  fraudulent.  Jose  Maria  Velasco 
Ibarra,  who  completed  only  one  of  his  five  terms  as  president,  often 
stated,  " Ecuador  is  a  very  difficult  country  to  govern." 

Ecuador  had  four  successive  democratic  elections  from  1948  to 
1960,  but  the  country  did  not  experience  relative  political  stability 
under  democratic  rule  again  until  the  1980s.  Seven  years  of  mili- 
tary dictatorship  ended  with  the  presidential  inauguration  of  Jaime 
Roldos  Aguilera  on  August  10,  1979.  After  Roldos  died  in  an  air- 
plane crash  on  May  24,  1981,  Vice  President  Osvaldo  Hurtado 
Larrea  assumed  the  presidency.  The  completion  of  the  Hurtado/ 
Roldos  administration  and  the  constitutional  and  orderly  transfer 
of  power — the  first  such  transfer  in  twenty-four  years — to  conser- 
vative Leon  Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra  (1984-88)  in  August  1984 
seemed  to  affirm  the  restoration  of  democracy  in  Ecuador. 
Nevertheless,  as  Roldos  himself  had  cautioned  shortly  before  tak- 
ing office,  the  nation  had  only  a  formalistic  and  ritualistic  democratic 
tradition. 

Indeed,  Ecuador  has  been  shaken  periodically  since  1984  by  bitter 
conflicts  between  the  executive  branch  on  the  one  side  and  the 
unicameral  legislature  and  the  judiciary  on  the  other.  These  clashes 
were  particularly  pronounced  during  Febres  Cordero' s  polemical 
administration.  His  authoritarian  rule  also  provoked  military  mu- 
tinies and  even  his  brief  abduction  by  rebellious  troops.  Although 
battered,  Ecuador's  democratic  system  survived,  and  Febres  Cor- 
dero transferred  power  to  his  long-time  rival,  Rodrigo  Borja  Ce- 
vallos,  in  August  1988.  Whereas  Febres  Cordero,  a  millionaire 
businessman  from  Guayaquil,  had  advocated  a  free-market  econ- 
omy, strong  executive  control,  and  close  alignment  with  the  United 
States,  Borja,  a  social  democrat  from  Quito,  espoused  a  mixed  econ- 
omy, a  pluralist  government,  and  a  nonaligned  foreign  policy.  In 
his  first  two  years,  Borja  succeeded  in  softening  the  impact  of  his 
predecessor's  legacy  of  political,  economic,  and  social  crises. 

Despite  a  decade  of  civilian  democratic  rule  marked  by  three 
peaceful  transitions  of  government,  analysts  generally  agreed  that 
the  political  system  remained  vulnerable.  Political  scientist  John  D. 
Martz  noted,  for  instance,  that  the  transition  to  a  third  democratic 


155 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

government  in  1988  provided  ''little  reason  to  believe  that  the  fragile 
democratic  system  in  Ecuador  had  been  strengthened,  nor  that  the 
historic  pattern  of  instability  had  been  fundamentally  reversed  or 
modified." 

The  destabilizing  conflicts  among  the  executive,  legislative,  and 
judicial  branches  of  government  resulted  primarily  from  idiosyn- 
crasies of  Ecuador's  institutional  structure.  For  example,  the  judi- 
ciary, despite  being  independent,  lacked  the  authority  needed  to 
serve  as  an  effective  check  on  the  abuse  of  presidential  powers. 
Although  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  (Corte  Suprema  de  Justi- 
cia — CSJ)  carried  out  many  judicial  duties  normally  expected  of 
a  nation's  highest  court,  it  did  not  rule  on  constitutional  issues. 
A  nonjudicial  appendage  of  the  National  Congress  (Congreso 
Nacional — hereafter,  Congress),  the  Tribunal  of  Constitutional 
Guarantees  (Tribunal  de  Garantfas  Constitucionales — TGC),  ex- 
ercised that  function,  thereby  giving  the  legislative  body  the  power 
to,  in  effect,  control  interpretation  of  the  Constitution. 

The  traditional,  deep-seated  division  between  the  liberal,  trade- 
oriented,  tropical  Costa  (coastal  region)  and  the  conservative, 
agrarian-oriented  Sierra  (Andean  highlands)  also  helped  explain 
Ecuador's  bitter  infighting  over  political  and  economic  affairs.  This 
fundamental  division  pitted  the  Pacific  port  city  of  Guayaquil,  the 
country's  principal  economic  center,  against  the  highland  capital 
of  Quito.  The  enmity  between  natives  of  Guayaquil  and  of  Quito 
was  reflected  in  the  alignment  of  the  country's  sixteen  registered 
political  parties  in  the  1988  elections,  as  well  as  in  the  refusal  of 
outgoing  President  Febres  Cordero,  a  native  of  Guayaquil,  to  speak 
to  his  successor,  Rodrigo  Borja,  a  native  of  Quito,  or  even  to  per- 
sonally pass  the  presidential  sash  to  him  on  August  10,  1988.  Ac- 
cording to  political  scientist  and  former  president  Hurtado,  rivalry 
among  provinces  and  regions  for  central  government  attention  in 
the  form  of  development  projects,  principally  road  construction, 
also  was  a  major  source  of  political  conflict. 

Although  Ecuador's  political  parties  and  its  free  and  partisan 
press  participated  in  a  lively  and  contentious  democratic  political 
process,  parties  suffered  from  factionalism,  weak  organization,  lack 
of  mass  participation,  and  blurred  ideologies,  as  well  as  from  the 
competing  influences  of  populism  and  militarism.  Analysts  gener- 
ally agreed  that  the  proliferation  of  small  parties  and  the  need  to 
negotiate  alliances  contributed  significantly  to  political  instability 
in  the  1980s. 

Constitutional  Background 

The  tension  between  civilian  and  clerical  authority  dominated 
Ecuador's  constitutional  history  for  much  of  the  nineteenth  and 


156 


Government  and  Politics 


early  twentieth  centuries.  This  issue  provided  one  of  the  bases  for 
the  lasting  dispute  between  Conservatives,  who  represented  primar- 
ily the  interests  of  the  Sierra  and  the  church,  and  the  Liberals,  who 
represented  those  of  the  Costa  and  anticlericalism. 

Ecuador's  first  constitution  of  1830,  when  the  country  seceded 
from  the  Confederation  of  Gran  Colombia,  followed  the  precedents 
of  other  independence  documents:  the  Quito  State  Charter  (1812) 
and  the  Gran  Colombia  constitutions  of  Cucuta  (1821)  and  Bogota 
(1830).  The  Quito  State  Charter,  framed  before  independence, 
called  for  a  unicameral  legislature  and  a  popular  and  representa- 
tive state  established  through  indirect  elections  by  its  citizens.  The 
term  "popular,"  however,  meant  in  practice  participation  by  only 
wealthy  and  influential  persons.  Succeeding  constitutions  clearly 
defined  the  stringent  property,  professional,  and  literacy  require- 
ments for  citizenship  and  distinguished  between  citizens  and  Ec- 
uadorians. Only  a  small,  white,  male  minority  (initially  those  over 
twenty-one  years  of  age)  met  these  requirements  and  therefore 
enjoyed  the  impressive  rights  guaranteed  under  these  and  other 
nineteenth-century  constitutions  (see  The  Struggle  for  Indepen- 
dence, ch.  1). 

Ecuador's  first  constitution  as  a  republic,  that  of  1830,  also  be- 
came known  as  the  Floreana  constitution,  after  the  new  nation's 
first  president,  General  Juan  Jose  Flores  (1830-45).  It  established 
a  unitary  and  centralized  presidential  system  of  government  and 
separation  of  powers,  with  the  executive  power  predominating  in 
practice.  The  1830  constitution  also  established  a  unicameral  con- 
gress, elected  by  indirect  suffrage  and  made  up  of  an  equal  num- 
ber (ten)  of  deputies  from  each  of  the  three  districts — Quito,  Azuay, 
and  Guayaquil — and  a  Council  of  State  to  assist  the  executive  in 
administering  the  government  and  to  substitute  for  Congress  dur- 
ing the  recess. 

The  five  constitutions  framed  between  1830  and  1852  had  much 
in  common.  Voting  was  made  indirect,  through  electors,  in  both 
congressional  and  presidential  elections.  The  presidential  term  was 
four  years,  with  the  exception  of  the  1843  constitution  (the  so-called 
"Slavery  Charter"),  which  provided  for  an  eight-year  term.  The 
1843  constitution  also  recognized  Roman  Catholicism  as  the  state 
religion.  Only  the  constitutions  of  1830  and  1851,  however,  pro- 
vided for  a  unicameral  legislature;  the  others  established  a  bicameral 
Congress,  composed  of  a  Senate  and  a  Chamber  of  Deputies.  The 
1843  constitution  also  made  an  exception  to  indirect  congressional 
elections  by  extending  popular  suffrage  to  the  election  of  senators. 
The  1845  constitution  declared  that  sovereignty  resides  in  the 
people,  although  it  extended  suffrage  only  to  all  male  citizens. 


157 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

The  constitution  of  1861,  promulgated  by  President  Gabriel 
Garcia  Moreno  (1859-75),  eliminated  the  financial  requirements 
for  citizenship  and  the  franchise;  introduced  direct  and  secret 
suffrage  for  electing  all  members  of  a  bicameral  Congress,  the  presi- 
dent and  vice  president  of  the  republic,  and  the  provincial  authori- 
ties; and  established  proportional  representation  for  Ecuador's 
provinces  in  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  (each  province  elected  two 
senators).  These  innovations  made  the  1861  constitution  the  most 
representative  in  Ecuador's  constitutional  evolution  in  the  nine- 
teenth century.  It  also  reintroduced  the  strong  presidency,  whose 
chief  executive  was  elected  by  " universal  suffrage"  for  a  four- 
year  term.  Although  it  retained  Roman  Catholicism  as  the  only 
legal  religion,  the  1861  constitution  guaranteed  free  expression  of 
thought. 

Nearly  all  of  the  constitutions  prohibited  the  immediate  reelec- 
tion of  the  president,  but  this  provision  was  often  violated  in  spirit. 
Despite  a  strong  sentiment  against  long-term  monopoly  of  the 
presidency,  generals  Flores,  Garcia,  and  Eloy  Alfaro  (1895-1912) 
managed  to  rule  behind  the  scenes  between  their  terms  of  office. 
In  1869  Garcia,  a  conservative,  intensely  devout  Catholic,  promul- 
gated a  more  authoritarian  constitution,  referred  to  as  the  Gar- 
ciana  constitution  or  Carta  Negra  (the  Black  Charter),  which 
extended  the  presidential  term  to  six  years  (see  The  Era  of  Con- 
servatism, 1860-95,  ch.  1).  It  introduced  the  religious  factor  into 
politics  by  making  membership  in  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  a 
requisite  for  citizenship,  and  it  also  required  being  at  least  twenty- 
one  years  of  age,  married,  and  able  to  read  and  write.  The  1884 
Elections  Law,  however,  eliminated  the  requirement  of  being  Cath- 
olic in  order  to  be  a  citizen. 

The  Liberal  period  from  1895  to  1925  had  two  constitutions, 
those  of  1897  and  1906.  The  first,  promulgated  by  General  Jose 
Eloy  Alfaro  Delgado,  prohibited  religious  orders,  abolished  priv- 
ileges of  the  Catholic  Church,  and  reduced  the  male  voting  age 
to  eighteen  (or  marital  status).  The  second,  the  country's  twelfth 
and  most  durable  charter,  provided  unprecedented  protection  of 
civil  and  political  rights  and  guarantees,  including  abolition  of  the 
death  penalty,  introduced  new  individual  freedoms,  and  prohib- 
ited arbitrary  imprisonment  for  debts.  It  also  established  the  sepa- 
ration of  the  church  and  state  and  strengthened  the  Council  of  State 
(see  The  Role  of  the  Liberals,  1895-1925,  ch.  1).  The  1906  Elec- 
tions Law  gave  women  the  right  for  the  first  time  to  participate 
in  political  and  administrative  life. 

The  1929  constitution  combined  quasicorporate  features  drawn 
from  many  different  models.  Described  as  a  semiparliamentary 


158 


Government  and  Politics 


charter,  it  reorganized  the  Senate  into  a  body  consisting  of  fifteen 
senators  elected  to  represent  specific  interest  groups.  Ecuadorian 
judicial  scholar  Hernan  Salgado  Pesantes  notes  that  the  1929  con- 
stitution was  the  only  one  that  weakened  presidential  powers  by, 
for  example,  disallowing  successive  presidential  reelection  and  in- 
troducing a  Council  of  Ministers  and  a  vote  of  no  confidence.  Con- 
gress was  even  able  to  impeach  an  incumbent  president  in  1933. 
The  1929  document  also  introduced  various  social,  economic,  and 
political  rights,  including  the  right  of  literate  women  of  at  least 
twenty-one  years  of  age  to  have  citizenship  and  to  vote,  and  the 
right  of  minorities  to  elect  deputies  and  provincial  councillors  (con- 
sejeros  provinciates).  The  traditional  social  and  ethnic  stratification 
continued,  however,  as  did  the  constitutional  distinction  between 
citizens  and  Ecuadorians.  Consequently,  the  1929  charter,  coin- 
ciding as  it  did  with  the  worldwide  economic  crisis,  failed  to  im- 
prove political  stability  significantly. 

A  Constituent  Assembly,  dominated  by  the  leftist  Ecuadorian 
Democratic  Alliance,  deliberated  almost  six  months  before  adopt- 
ing the  country's  fourteenth  constitution,  promulgated  by  Presi- 
dent Velasco  on  May  3,  1945.  Although  Velasco  had  opposed  the 
assembly's  efforts  to  strengthen  the  legislature,  the  new  constitu- 
tion imposed  a  number  of  important  checks  on  the  president,  es- 
pecially regarding  the  executive's  use  of  emergency  and  veto  powers. 
The  1945  constitution  also  provided  for  a  unicameral  legislature, 
rendered  the  cabinet  partially  responsible  to  Congress,  replaced 
the  Council  of  State  with  the  TGC,  and  established  the  Supreme 
Electoral  Tribunal  (Tribunal  Superior  Electoral — TSE).  In  addi- 
tion, the  1945  constitution  smoothed  over  the  religious  issue  by 
stating  that  the  nation  did  not  recognize  any  official  religion  and 
that  citizens  could  practice  any  faith. 

Although  Velasco  signed  the  1945  constitution,  his  immediate 
rejection  of  it  prompted  the  adoption  of  another,  promulgated  in 
1946,  that  restored  the  bicameral  legislature  (consisting  of  a  forty- 
five-member  Senate  and  a  sixty-four-member  Chamber  of  Deputies) 
and  the  Council  of  State  (replacing  the  TGC)  and  greatly  increased 
the  executive's  authority.  Velasco 's  constitution  also  reintroduced 
the  office  of  vice  president,  for  which  no  provision  had  been  made 
in  the  constitutions  of  1869,  1906,  1929,  and  1945.  The  constitu- 
tion made  autonomous  the  institutions  responsible  for  supervising 
the  electoral  process:  the  TSE  and  the  Provincial  Electoral  Tribunals 
(Tribunales  Provinciales  Electorales — TPEs)  (see  The  Electoral 
Process,  this  ch.). 

The  most  extensive  of  Ecuador's  constitutions,  the  1967  doc- 
ument, drafted  by  a  popularly  elected  constituent  assembly, 


159 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

legitimized  political  parties  recognized  by  the  TSE;  made  voting 
obligatory  for  women  as  well  as  for  men;  and  made  Congress  bi- 
cameral, meeting  twice  a  year  in  ordinary  sessions  (from  March  6 
to  May  4  and  from  August  10  to  October  9).  In  addition,  the  TGC 
again  replaced  the  Council  of  State. 

The  1967  constitution,  however,  contained  provisions  that  dis- 
pleased Velasco,  who  as  of  June  2,  1968,  was  in  his  fifth  term  as 
president.  For  example,  it  restricted  powers  to  call  a  state  of  siege. 
On  June  22,  1970,  Velasco,  in  an  autogolpe  (self- seizure  of  power), 
assumed  extraconstitutional  powers  and  began  ruling  by  decree. 
He  suspended  the  1967  constitution,  which  he  charged  had  de- 
stroyed executive  control,  amputated  the  Senate's  power,  divested 
the  police  of  all  authority,  and  dismembered  the  administrative  or- 
ganization. 

After  General  Guillermo  Rodriguez  Lara  deposed  Velasco  in 
a  military  coup  in  February  1972,  the  armed  forces  issued  a  decree 
reinstating  the  1945  document.  Rodriguez  suspended  it  in  1974, 
however,  and  cancelled  plans  for  holding  an  election.  In  January 
1976,  a  military  junta  ousted  Rodriguez  and  again  reinstated  the 
1945  constitution.  In  a  measure  unprecedented  in  Ecuador's  con- 
stitutional history,  the  junta  held  a  popular  referendum  on  Janu- 
ary 15,  1978,  to  decide  between  a  reformed  version  of  the  1945 
document  and  a  new  charter;  44  percent  of  the  voters  cast  their 
ballots  for  the  latter,  and  31  percent  for  the  former.  Nullified  votes 
totaled  23  percent. 

By  allowing  for  a  considerable  amount  of  state  intervention  and 
providing  for  a  large  number  of  economic  and  social  rights,  the 
new  Constitution  (promulgated  on  August  10,  1979)  is  much  more 
progressive  than  the  reformed  document,  which  had  favored  the 
status  quo.  Framed  along  the  lines  of  the  1945  and  1967  charters, 
the  1979  Constitution,  the  country's  seventeenth,  contains  several 
innovations,  including  granting  citizenship  and  suffrage  to  all  Ec- 
uadorians over  eighteen  years  of  age,  including  illiterates;  and  re- 
quiring candidates  in  popular  elections  to  affiliate  with  a  legally 
recognized  party.  It  also  creates  a  unicameral  Congress  (for  the 
fourth  time  in  Ecuador's  constitutional  history)  and  four  legisla- 
tive commissions,  which  form  the  Plenary  of  Legislative  Commis- 
sions (Plenario  de  las  Comisiones  Legislativas — PCL).  In  addition, 
it  requires  the  selection  of  the  president  and  vice  president  in  the 
same  election,  prohibits  either  from  seeking  a  successive  term, 
authorizes  Congress  to  elect  a  new  vice  president  if  the  incumbent 
resigns,  and  allows  the  president  to  declare  a  state  of  national  emer- 
gency and  to  finance  the  public  debt  without  prior  legislative 
authorization.  Although  the  Constitution  initially  extended  the 


160 


Government  and  Politics 


presidential  term  to  five  years,  an  amendment  later  reduced  it  to 
four.  The  Constitution  also  creates  the  National  Development  Coun- 
cil (Consejo  Nacional  de  Desarrollo — Conade),  headed  by  the  vice 
president,  to  plan  state  policies. 

To  help  compensate  for  numerous  deficiencies  in  the  1979  Con- 
stitution, amendments  were  approved  in  1983.  These  reforms, 
which  went  into  effect  in  August  1984,  give  more  power  to  the  TGC; 
reduce  from  five  to  four  years  the  term  of  the  principal  officials 
of  the  state,  including  the  president  (with  the  exceptions  of  TGC 
and  TSE  members,  who  serve  two  years);  shorten  the  terms  of  the 
judges  of  the  CSJ,  Fiscal  Tribunal,  and  Contentious  Administra- 
tive Tribunal  (Tribunal  Contencioso  Administrativo — TCA)  from 
six  years  to  four;  and  make  the  president  and  vice  president  of  the 
republic  subject  to  trial  only  for  treason,  bribery,  or  other  infrac- 
tions that  seriously  compromise  the  national  honor. 

The  Constitution  prohibits  discrimination  based  on  race,  sex, 
religion,  language,  or  social  status.  Nevertheless,  in  the  late  1980s 
Indians  and  blacks  constituted  a  disproportionate  share  of  those 
living  in  poverty,  although  there  was  no  legally  sanctioned  discrimi- 
nation against  them.  Moreover,  there  were  still  few  highly  placed 
women  in  the  political  structure.  Fewer  than  15  percent  of  the  can- 
didates in  the  1984  elections  were  women,  and  only  three  of  the 
seventy-one  congressional  deputies  elected  that  year  were  female. 
Women  still  suffered  some  discrimination  under  civil  law  and  usu- 
ally received  lower  wages  than  men  employed  in  similar  positions. 
In  1987,  however,  changes  in  laws  concerning  divorce,  property 
distribution,  and  inheritance  gave  women  equal  rights  with  their 
husbands  in  these  areas  as  required  by  the  Constitution. 

According  to  the  United  States  Department  of  State,  the  following 
individual  rights  were  respected  in  the  late  1980s:  the  freedom  of 
peaceful  assembly  and  association;  the  freedom  of  religion  (although 
the  country  was  overwhelmingly  Roman  Catholic);  the  freedom 
of  movement  within  the  country,  of  foreign  travel,  and  of  emigra- 
tion and  repatriation  (persons  from  other  Latin  American  coun- 
tries readily  found  asylum  in  Ecuador);  and  the  freedom  to  exercise 
political  rights.  Worker  rights  that  were  generally  respected  included 
the  right  of  association,  the  right  to  strike,  and  the  right  to  organize 
and  bargain  collectively.  Although  forced  or  compulsory  labor  and 
employment  of  children  under  the  age  of  eighteen  were  prohib- 
ited, Indians  often  worked  for  near- starvation  wages,  and  many 
children  in  rural  areas  were  active  in  the  work  force. 

Governmental  Structure 

Under  the  1979  Constitution,  Ecuador  is  a  democratic  and  unitary 
state  with  a  republican,  presidential,  elective,  and  representative 


161 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

government.  Although  the  presidency  is  mainly  a  political  office, 
it  and  the  rest  of  the  executive  branch  are  responsible  for  the  govern- 
mental process.  Congress  is  responsible  for  the  legislative  process. 
The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  which  supervises  the  Superior 
Courts,  is,  along  with  other  judicial  organs,  responsible  for  serv- 
ing justice.  Relations  between  the  executive  and  legislative  branches 
are  based  on  the  principle  of  the  separation  of  powers,  although 
there  are  several  points  of  contact.  In  the  1980s,  there  also  have 
been  numerous  points  of  friction  between  the  executive  and  legis- 
lative branches,  particularly  during  the  Febres  Cordero  adminis- 
tration. As  political  scientist  David  Corkill  observed  in  1985, 
"Politics  became  locked  in  a  familiar  cycle  of  executive-legislative 
conflict,  protracted  political  deadlock,  and  military  intervention 
to  break  the  impasse." 

The  Executive 

The  executive  branch  of  government  consists  of  the  president, 
the  vice  president,  the  ministers  of  state  and  their  subordinate  offi- 
cials, and  Conade  (see  fig.  16).  The  office  of  the  president  is  lo- 
cated in  the  National  Palace  (Palacio  Nacional)  in  Quito,  and  the 
offices  of  the  vice  president  and  ministers  at  various  other  loca- 
tions in  the  capital.  The  president  serves  a  four-year  term  and  may 
not  run  for  reelection. 

To  be  president,  one  must  be  Ecuadorian  by  birth,  in  full  pos- 
session of  the  rights  of  citizenship,  and  at  least  thirty-five  years  of 
age  at  the  time  of  the  election.  Election  requires  an  absolute  major- 
ity of  the  votes  cast  by  direct,  universal,  and  secret  ballot.  A  can- 
didate may  not  be  a  current  or  former  president,  a  spouse  or  relative 
of  an  incumbent  president,  vice  president  in  the  term  immediately 
prior  to  the  election,  a  minister  of  state  at  the  time  of  the  election, 
a  member  of  the  Public  Forces  (composed  of  the  armed  forces  and 
National  Police)  within  six  months  prior  to  the  election,  a  minister 
of  any  religious  denomination,  a  government  contractor,  or  a  legal 
representative  of  a  foreign  company. 

The  president's  duties  and  powers  include  the  following:  to  com- 
ply with  and  enforce  the  Constitution,  laws,  decrees,  and  interna- 
tional conventions;  to  approve,  promulgate,  carry  out,  or  challenge 
the  laws  enacted  by  Congress  or  the  PCL;  to  maintain  domestic 
order  and  national  security;  to  freely  appoint  and  remove  ministers, 
chiefs  of  diplomatic  missions,  governors,  and  other  public  officials, 
as  provided  by  law  (the  president  sends  a  list  of  three  candidates 
for  high-level  state  positions  to  Congress,  which  selects  one);  to 
determine  foreign  policy  and  direct  international  relations;  to  enter 
into  treaties  and  other  international  agreements,  and  to  ratify 


162 


Government  and  Politics 


treaties  and  agreements  after  their  approval  by  Congress;  to  con- 
tract loans;  to  serve  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  Public  Forces; 
to  appoint,  confer  promotions  on,  or  remove  officials  of  the  Public 
Forces;  to  mobilize  or  demobilize  the  Public  Forces  and  assume 
command  of  them  in  wartime,  and  to  approve  their  organization; 
to  declare  a  state  of  national  emergency  and  to  assume  emergency 
powers  as  needed  in  times  of  crisis;  to  submit  an  annual  report 
to  Congress  on  the  general  state  of  the  government  and  the  repub- 
lic; and  to  call  a  popular  referendum  on  important  questions. 

The  president  may  declare  a  state  of  emergency  in  general  situ- 
ations involving  imminent  foreign  aggression,  international  war, 
or  serious  internal  strife  or  catastrophe.  A  state  of  emergency  em- 
powers the  president  to  decree  the  anticipated  collection  of  taxes; 
to  invest  fiscal  funds  designated  for  other  areas  (with  the  excep- 
tion of  health  and  social  services)  in  the  defense  of  the  state  or  the 
solution  of  a  catastrophe,  but  not  in  the  case  of  an  internal  con- 
flict; to  move  the  seat  of  the  government;  to  close  or  open  ports; 
to  censor  the  media;  to  suspend  observance  of  constitutional  guaran- 
tees, with  the  exception  of  such  basic  human  rights  as  the  right 
to  life,  personal  integrity,  and  freedom  from  expatriation  or  con- 
finement (except  under  certain  conditions);  and  to  declare  a  secu- 
rity zone  in  the  national  territory.  In  order  to  prevent  arbitrary 
presidential  declarations,  Congress  or  the  TGC  may  revoke  the 
state  of  emergency  at  any  time  if  the  circumstances  justify  such 
action. 

The  president  has  important  legislative  powers  as  well.  The  prin- 
ciple of  ''legislative  coparticipation"  allows  the  chief  executive  to 
participate  in  the  formation  as  well  as  the  execution  and  applica- 
tion of  laws.  The  president  may  present  before  Congress  or  the 
PCL  any  proposed  law,  including  constitutional  amendments.  Con- 
gress or  the  PCL  must  invite  the  head  of  state  or  a  representative 
to  participate,  without  voting  rights,  in  the  discussions  of  the  pro- 
posed law.  Within  fifteen  days,  Congress  or  the  PCL  must  approve, 
amend,  or  reject  urgent  presidential  proposals  on  the  economy. 
In  the  absence  of  any  congressional  action,  the  president  may 
promulgate  any  such  proposal  as  a  decree-law,  which  the  Congress 
may  overrule  or  amend.  Any  bill  approved  by  Congress  or  the  PCL 
must  be  submitted  to  the  president,  who  has  ten  days  to  approve 
or  to  object  partially  or  totally  to  it.  The  legislature  may  override 
a  presidential  veto  by  a  two-thirds  majority.  The  chief  executive, 
once  signing  a  bill  into  law,  must  promulgate  it  by  publishing  it 
in  the  Registro  Oficial  del  Estado  (Official  Register  of  the  State)  and 
issue  regulations  within  ninety  days. 


163 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Executive  Branch 


National 

Vice 

Development 

President 

Council 

of  the 

(Conade)  1 

Republic 

President 

of  the 
Republic 

I 


Public  Works 
and 

Communications 


Social 
Welfare 


Secretary 
General  of 
Administration 


Secretary 
General  for 

Public 
Information 


\utonomou 
Agencies 


eh 


Chamber 
of 

Deputies 

Supreme 
Court 

of 
Justice 

1  Fiscal 
|  Tribunal 

|] 

i  Contentious 
1  Administrative 
Tribunal 
(TCA)  2 

~l 

I 

Tribunal 
of 

Constitutional 
Guarantees 
(TGC)  3 

Superior 
Courts 

1  J 

Lower 
Courts: 

criminal, 
provincial, 
cantonal 

Special 
Courts 


Governors 


Provincial 

Provincial 

Prefects 

Councils 

tons 


Political 
Chiefs 

Mayors 

Municipal  | 
Councils  | 


Political 
Lieutenants 


Parish 
Councils 


Supreme 
Electoral 
Tribunal 
(TSE)  4 


Provincial 
Electoral 
Tribunals 
(TPEs)  5 


Vote 
Receiving 
Committee 
(JRVs)  6 


1  Conade-Consejo  National  de  Desarrollo 

2  TCA-Tribunal  Contencloso  Admlnistratfvo 

3  TGC-Trlbunal  de  Guarantlas  Constltuclortales 

4  TSE-Tribunal  Superior  Electoral 

5  TPE$~Tribunate$  Provinciates  Electorates 

6  JRVs-Juntas  Beceproras  del  Voto 


Figure  16.  Organization  of  the  Ecuadorian  Government,  1989 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


The  president  may  call  Congress  into  extraordinary  session  to 
consider  exclusively  matters  put  before  it  by  the  head  of  state.  In 
practice,  however,  these  sessions  have  not  always  worked  to  the 
president's  advantage.  For  example,  although  President  Febres  Cor- 
dero  convoked  extraordinary  sessions  of  Congress  in  March  and 
April  1985,  the  legislature  suspended  the  first  one  after  rejecting 
a  presidential  bill  to  increase  the  monthly  minimum  wage  by  30 
percent,  and  the  president  of  Congress  unilaterally,  and  some 
claimed  illegally,  suspended  the  second  session  without  complet- 
ing its  agenda.  Although  the  Constitution  does  not  specifically  give 
Congress  the  power  to  suspend  an  extraordinary  session  called  by 
the  president,  the  legislative  body  may  interpret  the  charter  and 
the  laws  as  it  sees  fit. 

The  presidency  may  be  declared  vacant  following  the  incum- 
bent's death,  resignation,  physical  or  mental  incapacitation,  or 
removal  from  office  by  the  legislature  for  having  been  absent  from 
Quito  for  thirty  consecutive  days  or  for  having  left  the  country 
without  congressional  authorization.  Under  these  circumstances, 
the  Constitution  provides  for  subrogation  or  substitution  of  the 
president.  The  order  of  presidential  subrogation  is  the  vice  presi- 
dent, the  president  of  Congress,  and  the  president  of  the  CSJ.  The 
presidential  order  of  subrogation  also  serves  for  the  temporary 
replacement  of  the  vice  president.  In  the  definitive  absence  of  the 
vice  president,  Congress  may  designate  a  successor  by  an  abso- 
lute majority. 

The  1979  Constitution  establishes  that  the  vice  president  be 
elected  simultaneously  with  the  president  on  the  same  party  slate 
by  an  absolute  majority  and  meet  the  same  requirements  and  re- 
strictions. The  vice  president  also  serves  as  president  of  Conade, 
which  plans  the  various  policies  of  the  state. 

The  ministers  of  state,  who  comprise  the  cabinet,  discharge  the 
affairs  of  state  and  represent  the  president  in  matters  relating  to 
their  respective  ministries.  To  be  a  minister,  one  must  be  Ecua- 
dorian by  birth,  in  full  possession  of  the  rights  of  citizenship,  and 
at  least  thirty  years  of  age.  In  1989  the  Borja  cabinet  had  twelve 
ministers  and  also  included  two  secretaries  of  state — the  secretary 
general  of  administration  and  the  secretary  general  for  public 
information — with  ministerial  rank.  All  ministries  also  had  deputy 
ministers,  who  were,  with  the  usual  exception  of  the  deputy  minister 
of  defense,  civilians.  In  addition,  the  president  supervised  more 
than  700  autonomous  agencies,  including  the  national  planning 
board,  Conade. 

Conade  determines  the  general  economic  and  social  policies  of 


165 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  state  and  prepares  development  plans  for  presidential  approval. 
The  eleven-member  Conade  consists  of  the  vice  president,  four 
ministers  of  state  appointed  by  the  president,  the  president  of  the 
Monetary  Board,  and  one  representative  each  of  Congress,  the 
mayors  {alcaldes),  and  provincial  prefects  (prefectos  provinciates) ,  or- 
ganized labor,  the  Commercial  Associations  (Camaras  de  Produc- 
cion),  and  the  polytechnical  universities  and  schools.  In  the  event 
of  a  tie,  the  matter  is  resolved  by  the  vote  of  whoever  is  presiding 
over  the  meeting.  Once  approved  by  the  president,  the  policies 
adopted  by  Conade  must  be  implemented  by  the  appropriate  min- 
isters and  by  government  agencies. 

Under  a  restructuring  directive  issued  by  Vice  President  Luis 
Parodi  in  January  1990,  Conade  created  the  offices  of  undersecre- 
taries of  Economic  Planning  and  Decentralized  Planning  and  Social 
Development.  In  addition,  seven  general  directorates  were  estab- 
lished: Short-Range  Planning,  Medium-  and  Long-Range  Plan- 
ning, Decentralized  Planning,  the  Costa  Social  Development, 
Technical  and  Financial  Cooperation,  and  Administration.  The 
changes  resulted  from  a  desire  to  emphasize  the  role  of  planning 
as  a  tool  of  the  government,  thus  necessitating  modernization  and 
institutional  consolidation  of  the  council. 

The  Legislature 

Although  a  bicameral  organization  of  Congress  had  been  pre- 
dominant in  Ecuador's  republican  history,  the  1979  Constitution 
establishes  a  unicameral  legislative  body,  the  Congress.  Two  classes 
of  deputies — the  nationals  and  the  provincials — are  elected.  The 
twelve  national  deputies  are  elected  through  a  national  vote,  are 
at  least  thirty  years  of  age  at  the  time  of  election,  and  serve  four 
years;  they  may  be  reelected  after  sitting  out  a  legislative  period. 
Provincial  deputies  serve  two  years  and  may  be  reelected  after  wait- 
ing out  one  legislative  term.  They  are  elected  in  the  twenty-one 
provinces  under  a  system  of  proportional  representation.  The  pro- 
vincial deputies  must  be  at  least  twenty-five  years  of  age  at  the  time 
of  their  election  and  be  either  natives  of  the  province  they  are  to 
represent  or  residents  of  that  province  for  at  least  three  years  prior 
to  the  election.  National  and  provincial  deputies  must  be  Ecua- 
dorian by  birth,  in  full  possession  of  the  rights  of  citizenship,  and 
affiliated  with  one  of  the  political  parties  legally  recognized  by  the 
TSE. 

Those  prohibited  from  serving  as  members  of  Congress  or  even 
from  participating  in  the  electoral  process  include  virtually  all  mem- 
bers of  the  executive  and  judicial  branches,  public  employees, 


166 


Presidential  Palace,  Quito 
Courtesy  Martie  B.  Lisowski  Collection, 
Library  of  Congress 

officials  of  banks  and  other  credit  institutions,  holders  of  active  state 
contracts,  military  personnel  on  active  duty,  ministers  of  any 
denomination  and  members  of  religious  communities,  and  represen- 
tatives of  foreign  companies.  In  addition,  no  candidate  may  be  eco- 
nomically dependent  on  the  state  or  have  had  any  connection  with 
it  at  least  six  months  prior  to  the  election.  Ninety  days  prior  to 
an  election,  a  legally  recognized  political  party  must  register  its 
candidates  for  Congress  with  the  TSE. 

Once  elected,  a  deputy  may  not  hold  any  other  public  post,  with 
the  sole  exception  of  a  university  teaching  position.  Likewise,  depu- 
ties are  prohibited  from  exercising  their  profession  while  Congress 
and  its  commissions  are  in  session.  While  performing  their  legis- 
lative duties  or  even  carrying  out  acts  outside  of  these  functions, 
deputies  are  protected  by  parliamentary  immunity  from  prosecu- 
tion for  common  law  penal  infractions.  They  may  be  prosecuted 
only  if  Congress  votes  to  lift  their  immunity. 

Congress  usually  meets  once  a  year  for  a  period  of  seventy  work- 
ing days  beginning  on  August  10  and  ending  on  October  8.  When 
Congress  convenes  in  an  ordinary  period  of  sessions,  it  elects  from 
among  its  members  a  president  and  vice  president  to  serve  one- 
year  terms.  In  addition,  two  secretaries  are  elected  who  are  not 

167 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

members  of  the  legislature.  The  holders  of  these  one-year  appoint- 
ments may  be  reelected. 

Congress  also  must  name,  from  among  its  national  deputies, 
seven  legislators  and  seven  substitutes  (suplentes)  to  each  of  the  four 
legislative  commissions.  These  commissions  cover  civil  and  penal 
issues;  labor  and  social  issues;  tax,  fiscal,  banking,  and  budgetary 
issues;  and  economic,  agrarian,  industrial,  and  commercial  issues. 
Congress  may  also  designate  or  form  other  commissions  to  deal 
with  specific  issues,  such  as  constitutional  reform.  When  Congress 
recesses,  the  four  established  commissions  continue  operating  with 
certain  powers,  and  in  some  matters  certain  state  organs  may  sub- 
stitute for  Congress.  To  discuss  and  approve  laws  or  other  legisla- 
tion, the  four  commissions  meet  under  the  direction  of  the  president 
of  Congress  and  form  the  PCL  (see  table  19,  Appendix).  The  PCL 
may  approve  or  reject  proposals  of  law;  codify  the  laws;  prosecute 
the  judges  of  the  CSJ,  the  Fiscal  Tribunal,  and  the  TCA  for  in- 
fractions of  the  law;  reject  treaties  or  international  agreements;  and, 
when  Congress  is  in  recess,  make  the  final  decision  on  the  legality 
of  laws,  decrees,  regulations,  orders,  or  resolutions  suspended  by 
the  TGC  for  reasons  of  unconstitutionality. 

The  Constitution  gives  Congress  important  powers  in  legisla- 
tion and  in  political  and  judicial  control.  Only  Congress,  or  in  its 
recess  the  PCL,  may  enact  legislation  or  interpret  the  Constitu- 
tion. The  executive  may  only  work  out  regulations  for  the  appli- 
cation of  the  laws,  without  interpreting  or  altering  them.  Specific 
congressional  powers  include  reforming  the  Constitution  and  in- 
terpreting ambiguous  provisions;  expediting,  modifying,  reform- 
ing, repealing,  and  interpreting  the  laws;  establishing  or  replacing 
taxes,  rates,  or  other  public  revenues;  and  approving  or  rejecting 
public  treaties  and  other  international  conventions  entered  into  by 
the  executive.  High  officials  of  the  state — including  the  president, 
the  presidents  of  the  CSJ,  TSE,  TGC,  and  Fiscal  Tribunal,  as  well 
as  the  comptroller  general  and  the  attorney  general — must  also 
present  their  annual  reports  to  Congress. 

The  legislature  may  also  prosecute  the  president  and  vice  presi- 
dent; the  ministers  of  state;  the  ministers  of  the  CSJ,  TCA,  and 
Fiscal  Court;  the  members  of  the  TGC  and  TSE;  the  comptroller 
general;  the  attorney  general;  the  fiscal  general  minister;  and  the 
superintendents  of  banks  and  companies  for  infractions  commit- 
ted during  the  exercise  of  their  duties  or  up  to  one  year  after  leav- 
ing office.  The  president  may  be  prosecuted  only  for  serious  charges, 
such  as  betrayal  of  the  nation,  bribery,  or  other  infractions  severely 
affecting  the  national  honor. 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


Utilizing  the  interpellation  procedure,  one  or  more  legislators 
draw  up  a  list  of  questions  to  an  official  or  judge  who  is  to  be 
prosecuted  by  Congress.  The  secretary  of  Congress  must  deliver 
the  list  to  the  person  at  least  five  days  prior  to  the  date  of  interpela- 
cion  (interpellation  procedure),  when  the  individual  must  appear 
before  Congress  to  answer  the  questions.  If  during  the  proceeding 
the  person  is  determined  to  be  guilty  by  an  absolute  majority,  Con- 
gress may  censor  the  subject  and  dismiss  him  or  her  from  the  post; 
the  case  then  passes  on  to  the  appropriate  judges. 

Congress  also  appoints  a  number  of  high-level  government  offi- 
cials, including  the  comptroller  general,  the  attorney  general,  the 
fiscal  minister,  and  superintendents  of  banks  and  companies.  These 
appointments  are  made  from  lists  submitted  by  the  president,  each 
containing  three  proposed  names.  Only  Congress  may  remove  these 
individuals  from  their  four-year  posts.  Congress  also  appoints  the 
ministers  or  judges  of  the  CSJ,  the  Fiscal  Tribunal,  and  the  TCA. 
Should  any  of  these  posts  become  vacant  when  Congress  is  in  recess, 
it  remains  unoccupied  until  the  next  session. 

The  political  nature  of  judicial  appointments  became  a  matter 
of  considerable  controversy  in  the  1980s.  For  example,  in  October 
1984  a  dispute  broke  out  between  the  legislative  and  executive 
branches  following  Congress's  appointment  of  sixteen  CSJ  judges 
opposed  by  Febres  Cordero.  He  used  military  and  security  forces 
to  prevent  the  newly  elected  judges  from  entering  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Justice  building.  The  controversy  was  resolved  that  De- 
cember, however,  when  Congress  agreed  to  waive  its  prerogative 
to  select  all  of  the  judges  and  allow  Febres  Cordero  to  appoint  eight 
of  them. 

Congress  also  designates  the  seven  members  who  make  up  the 
TSE,  as  well  as  their  substitutes.  It  elects  three  TSE  members  on 
its  own  accord  and  elects  the  remaining  four  from  two  sets  of  names: 
two  members  from  one  set  provided  by  the  president  and  two  mem- 
bers from  another  list  sent  by  the  CSJ.  In  addition,  Congress  selects 
three  of  the  eleven  members  of  the  TGC  and  their  substitutes  and 
nominates  the  remaining  members  and  their  alternates  from  lists 
of  candidates  submitted  by  the  president,  the  CSJ,  the  Electoral 
College,  the  Electoral  College  of  Provincial  Prefects,  the  National 
Federation  of  Workers,  and  the  Commercial  Associations. 

Congress  also  has  a  role  in  budgetary  matters.  One  of  its  legis- 
lative commissions  reviews  the  budget  submitted  by  the  executive 
branch  through  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Credit.  Only  in  the 
case  of  budgetary  discrepancies  does  Congress  intervene.  Once  Con- 
gress resolves  any  discrepancies,  its  approval  is  final,  and  the  ex- 
ecutive may  not  object.  If  Congress  wishes  to  repeal  or  modify 


169 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

laws  that  increase  public  expenditures,  it  must  seek  other  sources 
of  financing,  create  new  substitute  revenues,  or  increase  the  exist- 
ing ones. 

Other  congressional  powers  include  installing  the  president  and 
vice  president  once  the  TSE  proclaims  them  to  be  elected,  and  elect- 
ing the  vice  president,  if  that  post  becomes  vacant.  Congress  also 
handles  resignations  of  the  president,  the  vice  president,  and  cer- 
tain other  officials.  Congress  grants  or  denies  permission  to  the 
president  and  vice  president  to  be  absent  from  the  country,  grants 
them  general  amnesty  for  political  crimes,  and  imposes  fines  on 
them  for  common  crimes. 

Congress  may  dismiss  cabinet  ministers  by  majority  vote.  Dur- 
ing the  Febres  Cordero  presidency,  the  opposition  majority  in  Con- 
gress dismissed  the  finance  and  credit  minister  in  late  1986  for 
alleged  abuse  of  tariff,  exchange,  and  public  spending  laws;  forced 
the  resignation  of  the  energy  and  mines  minister  in  August  1987 
for  allegedly  violating  Ecuador's  sovereignty  in  negotiating  an  oil 
trade  agreement;  and  impeached  the  government  and  justice 
minister  that  October  for  alleged  complicity  in  arbitrary  arrests, 
torture,  and  disappearances. 

To  deal  with  important  matters  that  cannot  wait  until  the  next 
ordinary  session,  the  legislature  may  convene  in  extraordinary  ses- 
sion. This  session  may  be  called  by  two- thirds  of  the  legislators, 
the  president  of  Congress,  or  the  president.  It  may  consider  only 
the  specific  matters  for  which  it  was  called.  If  another  important 
issue  arises  or  is  introduced  by  the  president,  it  cannot  be  consid- 
ered until  the  assembly  ends  and  another  is  called. 

The  Judiciary 

The  Court  System 

The  judicial  branch  consists  of  three  organs  of  equal  status  and 
importance:  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  (CSJ);  the  Fiscal 
Tribunal,  which  recognizes  and  resolves  controversies  arising  be- 
tween the  revenue-collecting  administration  and  the  taxpayers  and 
determines  tax  obligations;  and  the  Contentious  Administrative 
Tribunal  (TCA),  which  is  primarily  responsible  for  recognizing 
and  resolving  controversies  arising  in  public  administration.  Lo- 
cated in  Quito,  these  judicial  bodies  have  jurisdiction  over  all  of 
the  national  territory.  Their  judges  or  ministers  of  justice  must  be 
Ecuadorian  citizens  by  birth,  be  at  least  forty  years  of  age,  hold 
a  doctorate  in  jurisprudence,  and  have  at  least  fifteen  years  of  profes- 
sional experience  as  a  lawyer,  judge,  or  university  professor  in 
jurisprudence.  The  appointment  of  the  CSJ's  sixteen  justices  is  the 
constitutional  prerogative  of  Congress. 


170 


Government  and  Politics 


In  practice,  Congress  and  the  executive  branch  have  frequently 
manipulated  the  supposedly  independent  judiciary  for  political  pur- 
poses. Congress  appoints  the  judges  of  the  three  judicial  organs 
to  serve  four-year  terms.  If  vacancies  later  arise,  these  are  filled 
by  the  organs  themselves  until  Congress  nominates  official  replace- 
ments. Occasionally,  the  president  may  intervene  (on  his  or  her 
own  accord  and  without  any  specific  constitutional  authorization 
to  do  so)  in  the  process  of  nominating  CSJ  justices  by  presenting 
a  list  of  candidates,  and  the  Council  of  State  (a  body  whose  bu- 
reaucratic organization  and  powers  are  unclear)  may  intervene  by 
endorsing  the  candidates  suggested  by  the  president. 

At  the  apex  of  the  court  system  is  the  CSJ,  consisting  of  five 
chambers  of  three  judges  each,  as  well  as  the  court's  president. 
When  they  meet,  the  members  of  the  five  chambers  constitute  the 
plenary  tribunal.  The  tribunal  selects  the  court's  president,  who 
represents  the  entire  judicial  branch  for  a  two-year  period  and  may 
not  be  reelected  until  after  five  periods  have  elapsed. 

The  three  judicial  organs  have  certain  powers  with  respect  to 
reforming  the  Constitution  and  initiating  legislation.  The  CSJ  may 
initiate  reforms  of  the  Constitution,  and  all  three  judicial  organs 
may  initiate  proposals  of  law.  In  an  arrangement  similar  to  the 
"legislative  coparticipation"  enjoyed  by  the  president,  the  justices 
of  the  three  judicial  bodies  may  meet  with  Congress  or  its  legisla- 
tive commissions  to  intervene,  without  voting  rights,  in  the  dis- 
cussion of  bills.  The  CSJ  has  a  very  secondary  role  in  controlling 
matters  of  constitutionality.  Although  any  of  its  chambers,  as  well 
as  the  Fiscal  Tribunal  and  the  TCA,  may  declare  a  law  or  regula- 
tion unconstitutional,  the  plenary  session  of  the  CSJ  must  affirm 
such  a  declaration,  in  which  case  the  matter  is  reported  to  the  TGC. 

The  CSJ  supervises  the  superior,  lower,  and  special  courts  and 
prepares  regulations  to  ensure  that  judicial  employees  function 
properly.  The  CSJ  examines  the  statistics  of  the  cases  submitted 
annually  by  the  superior  courts,  hears  or  resolves  questions  raised 
by  these  courts,  and  suspends  or  removes  lawyers  who  violate  legal 
statutes.  It  also  removes  criminal,  provincial,  and  cantonal  judges 
and  attorneys  for  misconduct  while  in  office  or  for  incapacitation. 
Finally,  it  publishes  the  semiannual  Gaceta  Legal  (Legal  Gazette), 
as  well  as  the  court's  diary. 

Each  province  has  a  Superior  Court,  whose  judges  are  named 
by  the  CSJ.  Within  its  jurisdiction,  each  Superior  Court  nominates 
penal,  civil,  labor,  traffic,  and  tenancy  judges,  as  well  as  fiscal  agents, 
public  defenders,  notaries,  registers  of  property  and  merchandise, 
and  other  judicial  officials.  Superior  courts  have  first-instance  juris- 
diction in  criminal  cases  involving  provincial  governors,  mayors, 


171 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

members  of  electoral  tribunals,  customs  officials,  provincial  judges, 
and  police  officials.  They  hear  appeals  from  lower  courts  in  both 
criminal  and  civil  cases.  They  also  resolve  questions  raised  by  lower- 
court  judges  and  supervise  their  activities,  as  well  as  those  of  at- 
torneys and  notaries  public.  In  addition,  they  appoint  provincial 
and  cantonal  judges  and  attorneys. 

Lower  courts  included  thirty-five  criminal  and  forty-two  provin- 
cial courts  in  the  late  1980s.  They  have  first-instance  jurisdiction 
in  civil  cases  where  the  amount  involved  exceeds  8,000  sucres  (for 
the  value  of  the  sucre — see  Glossary).  They  must  consult  the  higher 
courts  on  the  interpretation  of  the  law.  When  ordered  by  higher 
courts,  lower  courts  must  have  representatives  visit  the  jails  in  the 
provinces  to  hear  the  complaints  of  inmates,  correct  any  abuses 
caused  by  prison  personnel,  and  secure  the  release  of  any  person 
arrested  or  detained  in  an  illegal  manner.  To  be  a  provincial  judge, 
a  person  must  be  a  citizen  and  a  lawyer  with  three  years  of  service. 

The  eighty-seven  cantonal  courts  have  jurisdiction  in  civil  cases 
where  the  amount  involved  is  between  200  and  8,000  sucres.  Can- 
tonal judges  also  may  fine  political  lieutenants  (tenientes  politicos), 
who  are  responsible  for  the  administration  of  justice  in  each  parish 
(parroquia),  for  negligence  of  duty.  Finally,  special  courts  try  cases 
involving  juveniles,  and  labor  disputes. 

The  Fiscal  Tribunal,  consisting  of  three  chambers  and  nine  judges 
named  by  Congress,  resolves  tax  controversies.  The  TCA,  which 
consists  of  two  chambers  of  three  judges  each  who  are  named  by 
Congress,  resolves  controversies  originating  in  the  public  adminis- 
tration and  monitors  the  application  and  fulfillment  of  the  law  by 
entities  of  the  state  and  their  officials. 

The  justices  of  the  three  judicial  organs — CSJ,  Fiscal  Tribunal, 
and  TCA — are  subject  to  prosecution  by  Congress  or,  in  its  recess, 
the  PCL.  The  Constitution  prohibits  the  judges  and  fiscal  officials 
from  carrying  out  leadership  functions  in  the  political  parties,  or 
intervening  in  elections.  They  are  also  prohibited  from  serving  as 
lawyers  or  holding  other  public  or  private  positions,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  university  professorships. 

The  Tribunal  of  Constitutional  Guarantees 

The  TGC,  rather  than  the  CSJ,  interprets  and  monitors  com- 
pliance with  the  Constitution.  Located  in  Quito,  the  TGC  con- 
sists of  eleven  members  and  their  substitutes,  who  serve  for  a 
two-year  period,  without  the  possibility  of  reelection.  Congress  ap- 
points three  TGC  members  who  are  nonlegislators  and  selects  eight 
others  from  lists  submitted  by  the  president,  the  CSJ,  the  mayors 
and  provincial  prefects,  the  legal  labor  unions,  and  the  Commercial 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


Associations.  TGC  members  selected  to  represent  the  legislative, 
executive,  and  judicial  branches  must  not  already  be  government 
officials;  they  must  be  citizens  by  birth,  in  possession  of  their  rights 
of  citizenship,  over  forty  years  of  age,  and  doctors  of  jurisprudence; 
and  they  must  have  fifteen  years  of  professional  experience  as  law- 
yers, judges,  or  university  professors  in  jurisprudence.  TGC  mem- 
bers representing  the  workers,  the  Commercial  Associations,  and 
the  citizenry  (such  as  the  mayors  and  provincial  prefects)  are  re- 
quired only  to  be  citizens  by  birth  and  in  possession  of  their  citizen- 
ship rights.  The  ministers  of  state,  the  comptroller  general,  and 
the  leaders  of  recognized  political  parties  may  participate  in  TGC 
deliberations  without  voting  rights. 

The  TGC's  role  has  been  secondary  and  temporary,  and  its 
decision-making  power  weak.  Salgado  points  out  that  the  control 
of  constitutionality  has  been,  in  effect,  entrusted  to  a  largely  polit- 
ical organ,  Congress,  which  lacks  the  requisite  impartiality  for 
debating  the  unconstitutionality  of  laws,  decrees,  or  resolutions 
enacted  by  Congress  itself.  Although  the  1979  Constitution  failed 
to  give  the  TGC  enforcement  authority,  the  1983  constitutional 
reforms  partly  rectified  this  deficiency.  Under  the  1983  reforms, 
the  TGC  may  demand  the  dismissal  of  officeholders  who  violate 
TGC  decisions,  and  the  violators'  superiors  are  obligated  to  com- 
ply; request  judges  to  initiate  penal  action;  or  report  its  decision 
to  Congress,  which  may  act  on  it.  The  TGC  may  also  suspend 
those  laws,  decrees,  accords,  regulations,  ordinances,  or  resolu- 
tions that  violate  the  Constitution.  Nevertheless,  it  must  submit 
its  decision  to  Congress  or,  in  its  recess,  to  the  PCL,  for  final  reso- 
lution of  the  case  of  unconstitutionality.  The  PCL,  for  its  part,  has 
had  relatively  broad  powers  to  control  constitutionality. 

The  TGC  has  several  other  powers  as  well.  During  the  recess 
of  Congress,  the  TGC  is  empowered  to  authorize  any  foreign  travel 
by  the  president  and  to  revoke  a  state  of  national  emergency.  The 
Law  of  Municipal  Regime  allows  the  TGC  to  rule  on  cases  involving 
the  disqualification  of  municipal  councillors  (concejales  municipales) , 
vacancies,  or  unconstitutional  ordinances  that  the  Provincial  Coun- 
cils were  unable  to  resolve.  The  Law  of  Political  Parties  of  1978 
and  the  Law  of  Elections  of  1987  also  grant  the  TGC  some  elec- 
toral powers. 

Public  Administration 

The  Public  Ministry  is  one  of  the  autonomous  agencies  and  is 
headed  by  the  attorney  general.  The  ministry  consists  of  the  state's 
only  judicial  representative,  the  attorney  general  (who  may  delegate 
this  representation),  and  the  ministers,  fiscal  agents,  and  other 


173 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


officials  who  determine  the  law  and  establish  the  ministry's  powers, 
rights,  reasons  for  dismissal,  and  replacement  procedures.  The 
attorney  general,  who  serves  four  years,  must  meet  the  same  re- 
quirements as  the  members  of  the  CSJ.  The  office  of  the  attorney 
general  of  the  state  is  an  autonomous  organ  headed  by  the  attor- 
ney general. 

The  autonomous  office  of  the  comptroller  general  of  the  state 
manages  the  public  funds  and  the  property  of  public- sector  enti- 
ties. Its  oversight  extends  to  the  private- sector  entities  that  receive 
state  subsidies.  The  comptroller  general  and  the  superintendents 
of  banks  and  companies  all  serve  for  four  years. 

Local  Government 

The  republic  is  divided  administratively  into  provinces,  cantons 
(municipalities),  and  parishes.  Provinces  are  governed  by  a  gover- 
nor, cantons  by  a  political  chief  (jefe politico),  and  parishes  by  a  po- 
litical lieutenant.  These  officials  all  answer  to,  and  are  appointed 
by,  the  president  or  the  executive  branch.  The  Ministry  of  Na- 
tional Defense  administers  the  Galapagos  Islands. 

Each  of  the  twenty-one  provinces  has  an  autonomous  provin- 
cial council,  headed  by  a  prefect  who  has  only  a  deciding  vote  in 
case  of  ties  in  the  council.  The  council,  which  has  jurisdiction 
throughout  the  province  and  a  seat  in  its  capital,  maintains  public 
services,  carries  out  public  works,  coordinates  municipal  activities, 
and  informs  the  central  government  of  budget  expenditures.  A 
municipal  council,  presided  over  by  a  mayor  empowered  to  cast 
a  deciding  vote  in  case  of  ties,  is  responsible  for  the  government 
of  each  canton,  of  which  there  were  103  in  the  late  1980s. 

All  provincial  and  municipal  officials  are  elected  for  a  four-year 
period  by  direct  and  secret  popular  vote.  In  elections  for  mayor, 
president  of  the  municipal  council,  and  provincial  prefect,  the  can- 
didates who  obtain  the  greatest  number  of  votes  are  elected.  Coun- 
cils at  both  levels  have  functional,  financial,  and  administrative 
autonomy.  Their  legislative  decisions  are  issued  in  the  form  of  or- 
dinances. 

The  746  parishes  that  existed  in  the  late  1980s  were  predominant- 
ly rural  areas  governed  by  a  political  lieutenant  and  a  parish  council 
within  its  area  of  responsibility;  over  100  were  classified  as  urban 
parishes.  Although  the  urban  parishes  were  mainly  voting  districts, 
the  rural  ones  also  had  municipal  functions.  The  parish  council 
is  responsible  for  improving  public  services,  executing  public  works, 
investing  revenues,  and  carrying  out  any  other  duties  required  by 
law.  Its  members  are  elected  by  direct  popular  vote  to  serve  a  four- 
year  term. 


174 


Municipal  building,  Guayaquil 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ecuador, 
Washington 


The  Electoral  Process 

Under  the  1987  Law  of  Elections,  all  citizens  have  the  right  to 
vote  or  be  elected,  except  active-duty  members  of  the  Public  Forces 
and  anyone  whose  citizenship  rights  have  been  suspended.  Elec- 
toral registrars  (padrones  electorales)  determine  citizens'  qualifications 
to  vote.  The  franchise  is  obligatory  for  those  entitled  to  vote,  with 
the  exception  of  illiterates,  persons  over  seventy-five  years  of  age, 
those  certified  as  sick  or  physically  disabled,  individuals  who  suffered 
a  domestic  calamity  on  election  day  or  from  one  to  eight  days  be- 
fore, and  citizens  who  are  absent  from  the  country  or  who  arrived 
on  the  day  of  the  election. 

The  1979  Constitution  establishes  several  innovations  in  the  sys- 
tem for  designating  the  president  and  vice  president.  Whereas  previ- 
ously they  were  elected  by  a  plurality,  the  Constitution  requires 
that  they  be  elected  by  an  absolute  majority  of  votes.  This  stipula- 
tion usually  requires  a  second  electoral  round  between  the  two  lead- 
ing candidates.  The  three  organs  responsible  for  overseeing  the 
electoral  process,  with  the  aid  of  the  Public  Forces,  are  the  TSE 
(Supreme  Electoral  Tribunal),  TPEs  (Provincial  Electoral  Tribu- 
nals), and  the  Vote  Receiving  Committees  (Juntas  Receptoras  del 
Voto— JRVs). 

As  the  highest  of  these  bodies,  the  TSE  is  responsible  for  ap- 
pointing and  supervising  TPE  members,  overseeing  the  electoral 
registrars,  convoking  elections  and  the  entities  that  form  the  electoral 


175 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

colleges,  counting  electoral  votes,  resolving  appeals  of  rulings  made 
by  the  TPEs,  and  issuing  regulations  governing  the  political  par- 
ties. The  TSE  must  convoke  elections  at  least  120  days  in  advance 
of  the  casting  of  ballots.  If  this  deadline  is  missed  by  more  than 
forty-eight  hours,  the  TGC  may  convoke  the  elections  or  a  popu- 
lar referendum  and  replace  the  TSE  members  with  their  substi- 
tutes, although  in  1989  the  constitutionality  of  this  arrangement 
remained  an  issue.  The  TSE  must  resolve  within  ten  days  appeals 
raised  about  TPE  decisions  not  to  register  candidates,  to  nullify 
votes,  to  invalidate  or  annul  the  vote  counting,  or  to  impose  penal- 
ties for  electoral  infractions.  The  TSE  also  resolves  electoral  com- 
plaints made  against  civil  authorities. 

The  TPEs  are  formed  by  the  TSE  in  each  province.  The  seven 
TPE  members,  who  serve  two  years,  represent  the  various  politi- 
cal parties.  TPE  members  direct  and  oversee  the  electoral  process 
in  their  own  jurisdiction  and  see  that  the  orders  of  the  TSE  are 
carried  out.  The  TPEs  also  appoint  the  members  of  the  JRVs,  con- 
duct vote  counting  in  their  jurisdiction  in  a  popular  referendum 
or  in  elections  for  mayor,  and  resolve  complaints  by  citizens  and 
political  parties  over  electoral  irregularities. 

The  JRVs  receive  ballots  at  a  public  polling  place  on  the  elec- 
tion days.  For  each  election,  the  TPEs  designate  a  number  of  JRVs 
in  accordance  with  the  electoral  registrars.  The  JRVs  each  have 
three  principal  members,  three  substitutes,  and  a  secretary,  all  of 
whom  are  selected  by  their  respective  electoral  registrar.  The  var- 
ious political  parties  must  be  represented  in  the  JRVs.  Parties  sub- 
mit suggested  candidates  to  the  TPE  at  least  sixty  days  before 
elections.  The  principal  powers  and  duties  of  the  JRVs  are  to  pro- 
vide each  citizen  with  ballots  and  later  a  certificate  of  having  voted; 
to  conduct  partial  vote  counting  immediately  after  the  polls  have 
closed;  to  determine  the  number  of  valid,  blank,  or  null  votes;  and 
to  remit  the  ballots  to  the  TPEs. 

Only  legally  recognized  political  parties  may  declare  candidates 
and  register  them.  Registration  must  be  completed  ninety  days  be- 
fore the  date  of  the  elections.  A  citizen  may  not  be  a  candidate 
in  a  national  and  provincial  election  simultaneously.  The  presi- 
dent and  vice  president  of  the  republic,  mayors,  presidents  of 
municipal  councils,  provincial  prefects,  and  most  of  the  council- 
lors, council  members,  and  national  and  provincial  deputies  are 
elected  in  the  first  electoral  round  every  four  years.  The  second 
electoral  round  is  held  two  years  after  the  first  round.  Provincial 
deputies,  whose  term  lasts  two  years,  and  some  replacements  for 
councillors  and  council  members  are  elected  at  that  time. 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


The  Constitution  provides  for  a  popular  consultation  (consulta  popu- 
lar), which  the  Law  of  Elections  refers  to  more  specifically  as  a  ple- 
biscite (generally  held  as  a  vote  of  confidence  on  an  action  of  a 
government)  or  a  referendum  (generally  held  to  approve  the  text 
of  a  law).  Either  the  executive  or  the  legislative  branch  of  govern- 
ment may  call  on  the  electorate  to  resolve  a  divisive  issue,  although 
the  former  has  greater  prerogatives  to  hold  a  popular  consultation. 

The  decision  adopted  by  a  popular  consultation  is  final.  Febres 
Cordero  became  embroiled  in  a  constitutional  row  in  early  1986 
when  he  formally  called  for  an  election-day  plebiscite  on  whether 
independent  candidates  should  be  allowed  to  run  for  elective  office. 
The  opposition,  believing  that  the  proposed  reform  was  designed 
to  concentrate  political  and  economic  power  in  the  presidency, 
contended  that  Febres  Cordero's  action  violated  Article  78,  which 
allows  the  president  to  call  plebiscites  on  ''issues  of  national  tran- 
scendence," but  not  on  constitutional  amendments.  The  opposi- 
tion also  claimed  that  Febres  Cordero  violated  a  provision  giving 
the  president  recourse  to  a  plebiscite  only  if  Congress  votes  against 
a  constitutional  reform  proposed  by  the  executive.  Although  Febres 
Cordero  had  his  way  and  the  plebiscite  on  the  constitutional  amend- 
ment was  held  in  June  1986,  he  lost  the  vote  by  a  margin  of  58 
to  26  percent. 

Political  Dynamics 
Political  Parties 

The  1967  constitution  was  the  first  to  introduce  provisions  for 
political  parties.  The  1979  Constitution  attempts  to  strengthen  the 
party-based  system  by  giving  parties  state  protection  and  finan- 
cial assistance.  For  a  party  to  receive  state  financial  aid,  it  must 
have  obtained  at  least  5  percent  of  the  votes  in  elections  for  na- 
tional and  provincial  deputies,  councillors,  and  council  members. 
In  these  elections,  the  parties  are  prohibited  from  forming  al- 
liances; each  party  is  obliged  to  run  its  own  candidates.  Alliances 
are  allowed,  however,  in  elections  for  president  and  vice  president, 
mayors,  and  prefects. 

The  Constitution  apportions  state  financial  aid  to  legally  recog- 
nized parties  as  follows:  60  percent  in  equal  parts  to  each  party 
and  the  remaining  40  percent  according  to  the  votes  obtained  in 
the  last  national  elections.  Although  the  parties  also  receive  con- 
tributions from  their  affiliates,  they  may  not  receive,  directly  or 
indirectly,  financial  donations  from  individuals  or  groups  that  have 
contracts  with  the  state  or  from  companies,  institutions,  or  foreign 
states. 


177 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Article  37,  which  was  widely  debated  prior  to  the  holding  of  a 
popular  referendum  in  June  1986,  gives  legally  recognized  parties 
a  type  of  monopoly  because  only  they  can  run  candidates  in  an 
election.  Whereas  the  Constitution  gives  any  citizen  the  right  to 
be  elected,  Article  37  prohibits  a  citizen  from  running  as  an  in- 
dependent candidate  and  requires  candidates  to  be  affiliated  with 
a  political  party.  Salgado  observed  that  the  party  affiliation  require- 
ment probably  strengthens  the  party  system,  but  it  does  so  by  com- 
promising the  political  right  of  any  citizen  to  run  for  office. 

Although  Ecuadorians  over  eighteen  years  of  age  may  join  a  po- 
litical party,  under  the  Law  of  Political  Parties  this  right  does  not 
apply  to  active-duty  members  of  the  armed  forces  and  National 
Police,  ministers  of  any  religious  denomination,  or  anyone  sen- 
tenced to  jail  for  defrauding  the  state  (at  least  until  after  a  period 
double  that  of  the  prison  sentence).  The  law  also  prohibits  more 
than  one  party  affiliation.  The  penalty  of  violating  this  law  is  loss 
of  citizenship  rights  for  one  year. 

The  Constitution  sets  out  the  organizational  requirements  for 
a  political  party.  It  must  have  a  party  doctrine  and  a  program  of 
political  action  that  are  in  accord  with  the  national  interest.  A  party 
must  keep  count  of  the  number  of  its  members  and  be  organized 
on  a  national  level;  that  is,  its  organization  must  extend  to  no  fewer 
than  ten  provinces,  including  two  of  the  three  most  populated 
provinces  (which  in  the  late  1980s  were  Guayas,  Pichincha,  and 
Manabf).  The  Law  of  Political  Parties  also  establishes  that  the  mem- 
bership of  a  party  must  constitute  no  fewer  than  1 . 5  percent  of  the 
registered  voters  in  the  last  electoral  turnout. 

A  grouping  or  political  movement  must  seek  TSE  recognition 
as  a  party  according  to  a  procedure  laid  out  in  the  Law  of  Political 
Parties.  To  participate  in  elections,  a  party  must  have  been  legally 
recognized  six  months  before  the  holding  of  these  elections.  In  the 
late  1980s,  Ecuador  had  sixteen  legal  parties. 

Any  changes  in  the  higher  leadership  of  a  party  or  in  its  statutes 
must  be  reported  to  the  TSE  within  eight  days.  The  principal  leader 
of  a  party  and  the  members  of  its  higher  leadership  body  serve  two- 
year  terms.  The  principal  leader  may  be  reelected  only  once,  after 
a  two-year  period,  for  another  term.  When  a  party  splits  and  two 
directorates  are  formed,  the  TSE  must  determine  which  faction 
is  legitimate.  To  that  end,  each  faction  has  a  thirty-day  period  in 
which  to  present  its  case.  The  TSE  then  has  fifteen  days  in  which 
to  decide  on  the  case,  and  its  decision  is  final.  Other  party  problems 
generally  are  resolved  internally  and  in  accordance  with  the  party's 
statutes  and  regulations.  The  party's  national  leadership  or  the 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


elements  in  conflict  may,  however,  submit  their  problem  to  the 
decision  of  the  TSE. 

According  to  the  Law  of  Political  Parties,  the  TSE  may  abolish 
a  party  that  decides  to  dissolve  itself,  incorporates  or  joins  with 
another  party,  does  not  participate  in  general  elections  in  at  least 
ten  provinces,  forms  paramilitary  organizations,  or  does  not  respect 
the  required  nonpolitical  character  of  the  active-duty  armed  forces 
and  National  Police.  As  originally  formulated,  the  Law  of  Politi- 
cal Parties  also  provided  that  if  a  party  failed  to  obtain  at  least  5 
percent  of  the  votes  in  each  of  two  successive  elections,  the  TSE 
could  dissolve  it  by  withdrawing  its  legal  recognition.  That  provi- 
sion was  not  in  effect  in  1988,  however,  having  been  declared  un- 
constitutional because  of  a  technicality;  whereas  the  Law  of  Political 
Parties  spoke  of  a  required  "electoral  percentage,"  the  Constitu- 
tion refers  only  to  an  "electoral  quotient." 

Unless  it  is  dissolving  itself,  a  party  being  abolished  by  the  TSE 
has  sixty  days  in  which  to  present  documentation  in  its  own  defense. 
Notice  of  the  abolishment  of  a  party  and  the  cancellation  of  its  regis- 
tration are  published  in  the  Registro  Oficial  del  Estado  and  sent  to 
the  news  media. 

The  Law  of  Political  Parties  guarantees  parties  the  right  to  or- 
ganize meetings,  marches,  and  public  demonstrations.  A  party  must 
submit  a  written  request  to  hold  a  public  march  or  demonstration 
at  least  forty-eight  hours  in  advance.  The  authority  may  reject  a 
request  only  if  another  demonstration  will  be  held  at  the  same  place, 
day,  and  hour,  but  will  approve  another  date  and  hour  and  must 
act  on  the  request  within  twenty-four  hours.  A  rejection  may  be 
appealed  to  the  TPE.  Any  march  or  public  demonstration  must 
also  be  authorized  by  the  police  authority  in  the  provincial  capi- 
tals, by  the  national  commissioner  (comisario  national)  in  the  can- 
tons, and  by  the  political  lieutenant  in  the  parishes.  Parties  do  not 
require  authorization  to  hold  nonpublic  meetings,  but  are  obligated 
to  inform  the  aforementioned  authorities  in  advance.  Counter- 
demonstrations  are  prohibited. 

The  Law  of  Political  Parties  also  guarantees  the  right  of  parties 
to  propagandize  their  programs.  If,  however,  political  propaganda 
or  statements  disseminated  by  news  media  impugn  the  honor  or 
good  name  of  someone,  that  individual  may  demand  that  the 
offender  publish  a  retraction.  If  necessary,  the  individual  may  ap- 
peal to  the  TPE  to  have  this  demand  carried  out.  Under  the  law, 
all  means  of  social  communication  not  owned  by  a  party  must  pro- 
vide access  to  all  parties  and  may  not  enter  into  exclusive  political 
propaganda  contracts.  Lastly,  political  proselytism  in  schools  and 
colleges  is  prohibited,  as  is  coercing  someone  to  join  a  party,  to 


179 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

vote  for  a  candidate,  to  participate  in  marches  or  demonstrations, 
or  to  make  financial  contributions. 

Traditional  Parties 

Middle-  and  upper-middle  class  professionals  and  businessmen 
have  led  Ecuador's  two  traditional  parties,  the  Conservative  Party 
(Partido  Conservador — PC)  and  the  Radical  Liberal  Party  (Par- 
tido  Liberal  Radical — PLR),  also  commonly  referred  to  as  the 
Liberal  Party  (Partido  Liberal)  (see  The  First  Century  of  the  Repub- 
lic, ch.  1).  Garcia  Moreno  established  the  PC  in  1869  as  a  loosely 
structured  party  and  gave  it  a  rightist  ideological  base.  The  Con- 
servative Party  promoted  close  cooperation  between  church  and 
state,  a  strong,  centralized  government,  and  private  property.  Its 
regional  stronghold  was  the  Sierra,  particularly  Quito  and  Cuenca 
(capital  of  Azuay  Province).  The  PC  monopolized  political  power 
from  1860  until  1895,  when  the  PLR  seized  power  as  the  outcome 
of  a  civil  war.  The  PC  steadily  lost  ground  thereafter.  Although 
neither  party  held  the  presidency  between  1944  and  1989,  the  PC 
supported  the  successful  presidential  candidacy  of  Camilo  Ponce 
Enriquez  in  1956.  The  PC  also  consistently  made  a  strong  show- 
ing in  municipal  and  congressional  elections  in  the  1960s. 

Like  the  Conservatives,  the  Liberals  were  slow  to  develop  a  for- 
mal party  structure.  According  to  Osvaldo  Hurtado,  although  the 
Liberal  political  movement  had  strengthened  organizationally  and 
ideologically  by  the  1880s,  especially  in  Guayaquil,  it  still  lacked 
a  formal  political  party  and  remained  factionalized  into  two  main 
groups.  The  original  "civilist"  faction  consisted  of  doctrinaire  in- 
tellectuals who  opposed  the  Conservative  governments  through  the 
press  and  legislature.  In  1884  the  six-year-old  radical  faction  of  the 
Liberals  led  by  Eloy  Alfaro  and  his  revolutionary  montoneros  (guer- 
rillas) proclaimed  itself  the  true  Liberal  Party  and  took  up  arms 
on  the  Costa  against  the  Conservative  government.  After  the  tem- 
porary defeat  of  the  radicals  in  1887,  the  civilist  faction  again  as- 
sumed the  leadership  of  the  Liberals.  The  Liberal  Party  was 
formally  organized  as  a  political  entity  with  the  holding  of  its  first 
assembly  in  Quito  in  July  1890.  Nevertheless,  party  factionalism 
continued.  In  1892  a  "fusionist"  faction  broke  away  and  joined 
the  Conservatives.  Liberal  opposition  to  Conservative  rule  became 
so  bitter,  however,  that  Alfaro  was  able  to  consolidate  the  various 
factions  into  the  Radical  Liberal  Party  (PLR)  by  1895,  when  it 
took  power. 

The  PLR  was  the  principal  ruling  party  between  1895  and  1944, 
although  the  coup  of  July  9,  1925,  marked  the  beginning  of  a  grad- 
ual decline  in  the  two-party  structure  and  in  Liberal  hegemony. 


180 


Modern  Quito 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ecuador,  Washington 


Since  its  founding,  the  PLR  had  been  strongest  in  the  Costa,  but 
in  the  1960s  it  also  won  a  significant  following  in  Quito.  Since  the 
1920s,  the  PLR's  platform  has  included  anticlericalism  and  agrarian 
reform.  The  Radical  Liberals  traditionally  aligned  themselves  with 
the  armed  forces  and  commercial  interests.  The  armed  forces,  dis- 
credited by  their  association  with  the  party,  distanced  themselves 
after  1942,  but  trade  and  banking  interests  continued  to  finance 
the  PLR.  Like  the  PC,  the  PLR  garnered  nearly  a  third  of  the 
vote  in  congressional  elections  in  the  decades  prior  to  1972. 

The  traditional  parties  depended  to  a  considerable  extent  on  the 
largess  of  wealthy  individuals  or  economic  interest  groups.  It  was 
customary,  moreover,  for  most  donors  to  expect  large  returns  on 
their  investment,  and  most  of  them  assumed  the  role  of  patron  (pa- 
tron) toward  the  dependent  party  leaders,  who  were  expected  to 
assume  a  properly  subservient  attitude.  Corruption  was  widely  as- 
sumed to  be  an  institutionalized  attribute  of  partisan  activities,  and 
party  platforms  enjoyed  little  credibility. 

Other  Parties 

The  two-party  structure  began  to  decline  in  the  early  twentieth 
century  as  leftist  parties  emerged  and  the  country  experienced  a 


181 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

quarter-century  of  political  instability.  Ecuador  had  at  least  four 
communist  and  socialist  parties.  The  oldest  was  the  Ecuadorian 
Socialist  Party  (Partido  Socialista  Ecuatoriano — PSE),  founded  in 
1925  as  a  section  of  the  Communist  International.  Consisting  of 
a  small  group  of  intellectuals,  the  PSE  was  influential  only  through 
coalitions  either  with  groups  on  the  left,  including  the  Communists, 
or  more  often,  with  the  PLR.  The  PSE  was  one  of  the  few  parties 
that  was  neither  regionally  based  nor  personalist  in  character. 
Although  it  depended  on  wealthy  groups  and  individuals  for  sup- 
port, the  PSE  played  a  major  role  in  formulating  social  welfare 
legislation. 

The  PSE  gave  birth  to  both  the  Moscow-oriented  Ecuadorian 
Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista  Ecuatoriano — PCE),  which 
broke  away  in  1928,  and  the  pro-Cuban  Revolutionary  Socialist 
Party  of  Ecuador  (Partido  Socialista  Revolucionario  del  Ecua- 
dor— PSRE),  which  broke  away  in  1962.  The  PCE,  a  legal  party, 
generally  has  concentrated  on  enhancing  its  position  within  or- 
ganized labor,  student  organizations,  and  the  educational  bureau- 
cracy; it  had  little  voter  appeal.  By  the  1970s,  the  PSRE  had  become 
the  strongest  advocate  of  revolution  in  the  country.  The  PSRE  and 
PCE,  along  with  Christian  leftists  and  Maoists,  joined  in  1977  to 
form  a  Moscow-line  leftist  front  called  the  Broad  Left  Front  (Frente 
Amplio  de  la  Izquierda — FADI).  Another  PCE  splinter  group,  the 
pro-Chinese  Communist  Party  of  Ecuador — Marxist-Leninist  (Par- 
tido Comunista  del  Ecuador — Marxista-Leninista — PCE-ML)  was 
formed  in  1972. 

Several  noncommunist  and  Christian  Democratic  parties  also 
emerged  in  the  twentieth  century.  The  Ecuadorian  Nationalist 
Revolutionary  Action  (Accion  Revolucionaria  Nacionalista 
Ecuatoriana — ARNE),  founded  in  1942,  was  a  highly  nationalis- 
tic, anticommunist,  quasi-fascist  group  with  its  strongest  appeal 
among  youths  in  the  Sierra.  The  center-right  Social  Christian  Party 
(Partido  Social  Cristiano — PSC)  was  established  in  1951  and  be- 
came the  ruling  party  when  Febres  Cordero  assumed  the  presidency 
in  1984.  The  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata 
Cristiano — PDC),  founded  in  1964,  affiliated  with  the  International 
Christian  Democratic  Association.  Its  center-left  platform  attracted 
a  small  but  growing  following  among  workers,  students,  and  young 
professionals. 

In  1970  Rodrigo  Borja  broke  away  from  the  PLR  and  formed, 
in  1977,  a  Quito-based  Social  Democratic  party,  the  center-left 
Democratic  Left  (Izquierda  Democratica — ID).  The  ID  became 
Ecuador's  largest  party  and  the  voice  of  a  new  generation  of  reform- 
ist, professionally  trained  political  leaders.  The  Alfarist  Radical 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


Front  (Frente  Radical  Alfarista — FRA),  a  populist  and  centrist 
party,  was  established  in  1972.  Popular  Democracy  (Democracia 
Popular — DP),  an  affiliate  of  the  Christian  Democratic  Inter- 
national, was  founded  in  1978  as  a  coalition  of  the  PDC  and  the 
Progressive  Conservative  Party  (Partido  Conservador  Progresista — 
PCP)  and  a  breakaway  faction  of  the  PC.  Because  of  its  Christian 
Democratic  membership,  DP  often  was  referred  to  as  Democracia 
Popular — Democracia  Cristiana. 

Personalist  Movements 

According  to  Hurtado,  political  parties  were  always  relatively 
insignificant  in  the  Ecuadorian  political  process,  whereas  individuals 
transformed  into  caudillos  played  the  dominant  role.  None  of  the 
personalist  movements,  however,  had  more  than  a  temporary  im- 
pact on  politics,  usually  only  as  long  as  their  leader  enjoyed  popular- 
ity. Major  personalist  movements  have  included  the  National 
Velasquista  Party  (Partido  Nacional  Velasquista — PNV),  organized 
in  1952  by  Velasco;  the  Social  Christian  Movement  (Movimiento 
Social  Cristiano — MSC),  founded  in  1951  by  former  president 
Camilo  Ponce  Enriquez;  the  Democratic  Institutionalist  Coalition 
(Coalicion  Institucionalista  Democratica — CID),  founded  in  1965 
by  former  provisional  president  Otto  Arosemena  Gomez;  and  the 
Concentration  of  Popular  Forces  (Concentration  de  Fuerzas  Popu- 
lares — CFP),  a  Guayaquil-based,  populist,  and  center-right  party 
organized  in  the  late  1940s  as  a  splinter  of  the  velasquista  movement 
by  Carlos  Guevara  Moreno,  a  former  interior  minister.  In  1980 
a  roldosista  faction  broke  away  from  the  CFP  and  formed  People, 
Change,  and  Democracy  (Pueblo,  Cambio  y  Democracia — PCD), 
which  dissolved  after  the  death  of  its  leader  Jaime  Roldos  Aguilera 
in  1981.  The  populist  Ecuadorian  Roldosist  Party  (Partido  Rol- 
dosista Ecuatoriano — PRE),  led  by  Abdala  Bucaram  Ortiz  (nephew 
of  Asaad  Bucaram  Elmhalim,  a  staunchly  anti-Marxist  former 
mayor  of  Guayaquil  and  former  leader  of  the  CFP),  was  founded 
in  Guayaquil  in  late  1982. 

In  order  to  participate  more  effectively  in  elections,  personalist 
movements  often  joined  ad  hoc  coalitions  of  parties.  Every  presi- 
dent elected  to  office  since  1944,  with  the  exception  of  Velasco, 
owed  his  victory  to  a  coalition  rather  than  to  a  single  party.  Although 
most  of  these  coalitions  were  unstable  and  short-lived,  a  few  had 
a  semipermanent  character,  emerging  from  dormancy  at  each  elec- 
tion and  representing  roughly  the  same  groups  and  interests  each 
time.  One  of  the  most  important  was  the  National  Democratic  Front 
(Frente  Democratico  Nacional — FDN),  which  usually  formed 
around  the  nucleus  of  the  PLR,  frequently  along  with  the  PSE. 


183 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Often  more  successful  than  the  moderate  FDN  was  the  conserva- 
tive Popular  Alliance  (Alianza  Popular — AP),  usually  composed 
of  Conservatives,  arnistas  (members  of  ARNE),  and  MSC  mem- 
bers. The  AP  was  responsible  for  Ponce  Enriquez's  victory  in  1956 
and  congressional  victories  in  1958  and  1962. 

Party  Politics  in  the  1980s 

Ecuadorian  politics  in  the  1980s  constituted  an  increasingly  bit- 
ter struggle  among  conservative,  center-left,  and  far-left  parties  and 
their  leaders.  Political  scientist  Catherine  M.  Conaghan,  comment- 
ing on  the  declining  standards  of  Ecuadorian  political  discourse 
in  the  late  1980s,  noted  that  "in  the  absence  of  strong  institutions 
and  new  ideas,  Ecuadorian  politics  has  devolved  into  a  highly  per- 
sonalized and  often  trivialized  arena  of  intra-elite  struggle." 

Party  competition  in  the  1980s  was  mainly  between  the  PSC 
(Social  Christian  Party)  and  the  ID  (Democratic  Left).  Many 
blamed  the  heightened  interparty  friction  on  Febres  Cordero,  the 
PSC  leader  who  won  the  presidency  by  polling  52.2  percent  in  the 
second  round  of  voting  in  May  1984.  Febres  Cordero  narrowly 
defeated  Borja,  who  polled  47.8  percent  as  the  ID  candidate.  Febres 
Cordero' s  conservative  National  Reconstruction  Front  (Frente  de 
Reconstrucion  Nacional — FRN)  coalition  consisted  of  seven  par- 
ties, including  the  traditional  PC  and  PLR.  The  FRN  held  only 
twenty-nine  of  the  seventy-one  seats  in  Congress,  however,  and 
the  opposition  effectively  controlled  the  remaining  forty-two.  The 
resulting  political  infighting  threatened  the  stability  of  the  coun- 
try's fragile  democracy  on  several  occasions. 

Febres  Cordero  promised  an  honest  public  administration  and 
a  revival  of  market  principles  in  managing  the  economy.  Neverthe- 
less, his  government  suffered  from  a  succession  of  political  and  eco- 
nomic crises.  Ruling  more  in  the  style  of  a  caudillo  than  an  elected 
politician,  Febres  Cordero  used  his  executive  powers  boldly,  creat- 
ing a  number  of  constitutional  conflicts  with  the  other  two  branches 
of  government.  For  example,  in  late  1985  he  promulgated  a  con- 
troversial bill  changing  the  electoral  law  and  postponing  the  legis- 
lative elections  scheduled  for  early  1986.  The  proposed  reform, 
which  was  defeated  in  the  plebiscite  held  on  June  1,  1986,  would 
not  only  have  given  the  executive  extraordinary  economic  powers, 
but  would  also  have  limited  the  right  of  habeas  corpus,  set  a  four- 
year  term  for  all  members  of  Congress,  and  allowed  independents 
to  be  elected.  Febres  Cordero's  authoritarian  rule  and  strongly 
pro-United  States  policies  were  blamed  for  his  government's  major 
political  defeat  in  the  mid-term  congressional  elections  by  allied 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


center-left  and  Marxist  parties,  which  captured  forty-three  of  the 
legislature's  seventy-one  seats. 

Certain  high-ranking  military  officials  posed  a  challenge  to  Febres 
Cordero  in  1986.  He  dismissed  the  armed  forces  chief  of  staff,  Air 
Force  Lieutenant  General  Frank  Vargas  Pazzos,  for  accusing  the 
minister  of  national  defense  and  an  army  commander  of  corrup- 
tion. Vargas  subsequently  staged  a  week-long  double  revolt — first 
at  the  Eloy  Alfaro  Air  Base  in  Manta  on  the  Pacific  Coast  and  then 
at  Quito's  Marshal  Sucre  International  Airport — and  demanded 
the  resignations  of  the  two  military  leaders.  A  bloody  battle  in 
March  ended  the  second  revolt  and  resulted  in  Vargas's  arrest. 
Although  Congress  granted  Vargas  amnesty  that  October,  a  deci- 
sion upheld  by  the  TGC,  Febres  Cordero  refused  to  honor  the  de- 
cision, sparking  a  constitutional  controversy. 

During  a  presidential  visit  to  the  Taura  Air  Base  outside  Guaya- 
quil in  January  1987,  paratroop  commandos  loyal  to  Vargas  ab- 
ducted Febres  Cordero  and  his  defense  minister.  They  were  released 
eleven  hours  later  after  Febres  Cordero  personally  granted  amnesty 
to  Vargas  and  signed  a  written  guarantee  that  no  reprisals  would 
be  taken  against  either  the  rebellious  former  general  or  his  com- 
mandos. A  few  days  later,  however,  the  army  arrested  the  ninety- 
four  paratroopers,  who  were  then  expelled  from  the  air  force.  A 
military  tribunal  sentenced  fifty-eight  of  them  to  prison  sentences 
ranging  from  six  months  to  sixteen  years. 

Rather  than  rallying  around  the  president  following  the  near  over- 
throw of  the  democratic  system,  the  leftist-dominated  Congress 
called  a  special  session  to  consider  impeaching  Febres  Cordero  for 
allowing  himself  to  be  kidnapped  and  then  negotiating  his  release 
by  freeing  Vargas.  Although  the  opposition  was  unable  to  obtain 
the  two-thirds  majority  needed  to  impeach  the  president,  it  approved 
a  nonbinding  demand  that  Febres  Cordero  resign  for  "disgrac- 
ing" the  national  honor. 

Running  as  both  a  Socialist  and  a  populist,  Vargas  participated 
in  the  first  round  of  the  1988  presidential  elections  as  the  rep- 
resentative of  the  People's  Patriotic  Union  (Union  del  Pueblo 
Patriotico — UPP).  To  the  surprise  of  many,  Vargas  placed  fourth 
by  garnering  over  12  percent  of  the  vote.  In  that  election,  Var- 
gas's UPP  also  allied  itself  with  the  PSE  (Ecuadorian  Socialist 
Party),  the  Ecuadorian  Revolutionary  Popular  Alliance  (Alianza 
Popular  Revolucionaria  Ecuatoriana — APRE),  and  FADI  (Broad 
Left  Front). 

Also  running  as  a  center-left  candidate  was  Jamil  Mahuad  Witt, 
a  DP  protege  of  former  president  Osvaldo  Hurtado.  Mahuad  won 
11.5  percent  of  the  vote.  On  the  far  left,  Jaime  Hurtado  ran  as 


185 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  candidate  of  the  Maoist-oriented  Democratic  Popular  Move- 
ment (Movimiento  Popular  Democratico — MPD),  with  the  back- 
ing of  the  FADI,  but  collected  only  5  percent  of  the  vote,  behind 
the  CFP's  Angel  Duarte,  with  nearly  8  percent. 

Another  contender  was  PRE  leader  Abdala  Bucaram  Ortiz,  who 
returned  from  Panama,  where  he  had  fled  in  1985  after  criticizing 
the  armed  forces,  to  participate  in  the  first  round  of  the  presiden- 
tial elections.  Febres  Cordero  allowed  the  flamboyant,  mercurial 
Bucaram  to  return  in  the  belief  that  his  candidacy  would  help 
weaken  the  center-left  and  unite  the  right.  The  18.4  percent  of  the 
vote  Bucaram  garnered  shocked  all  the  candidates  and  their  par- 
ties, especially  those  on  the  disunited  right,  whose  prime  contender, 
the  PSC's  Sixto  Duran  Ballen,  placed  third  with  not  quite  15  per- 
cent of  the  vote.  A  high  voter  turnout  (nearly  78  percent)  throughout 
the  country  and  particularly  in  Guayaquil  contributed  to  Bucaram 's 
impressive  showing.  He  suddenly  became  a  major  challenger  by 
edging  out  Duran  and  placing  second  to  Rodrigo  Borja  who,  as 
expected,  was  in  first  place,  with  24.5  percent. 

Accordingly,  the  second  round  of  the  presidential  elections  in 
May  1988  was  a  contest  between  Borja  and  Bucaram.  Despite  their 
lack  of  substantive  policy  differences — both  favored  economic  na- 
tionalism and  import  substitution — their  campaigns  were  charac- 
terized by  hard-hitting  personal  attacks  that,  Conaghan  notes, 
"brought  the  level  of  political  discourse  to  a  new  low. "  Borja  won, 
as  expected,  with  1.7  million  ballots,  or  47.4  percent  of  the  vote. 
Bucaram,  with  the  aid  of  the  Lebanese  community  in  Guayaquil, 
polled  40.3  percent,  totaling  about  1.45  million  votes.  (Of  the  ap- 
proximately 3.8  million  ballots  cast,  425,000  were  null  and  45,000 
blank.)  This  was  a  much  better  showing  than  expected,  especially 
considering  the  failure  of  his  PRE  to  win  the  support  of  any  of  the 
other  major  registered  parties.  Bucaram  subsequently  fled  the  coun- 
try again  to  avoid  an  arrest  order  issued  by  the  president  of  Guaya- 
quil's  Superior  Court  for  alleged  malfeasance  when  he  was  mayor 
of  Guayaquil  in  1985.  Nevertheless,  according  to  Conaghan,  the 
electoral  results  legitimized  Bucaram  as  a  national  leader  and  as- 
sured him  a  future  role  as  a  presidential  contender. 

Although  Borja  lost  in  the  five  coastal  provinces,  he  carried  the 
fourteen  provinces  of  the  Sierra  and  Oriente  (eastern  region),  as 
well  as  the  Galapagos  Islands.  (Sucumbios,  the  twenty-first  province, 
was  not  created  until  1989.)  He  also  made  an  important  showing 
in  Guayas  Province  and  adjacent  Los  Rios  Province,  winning  about 
33  percent  of  the  vote.  Borja' s  ID  became  the  majority  party  by 
winning  twenty-nine  of  the  seventy-one  seats  in  Congress  and  en- 
tering into  a  coalition  with  the  Popular  Democratic  Union  (Union 


186 


Democratica  Popular — UDP)  and  DP  (Popular  Democracy),  with 
seven  seats,  and  FADI,  with  two  seats.  FADI  was  joined  by  the 
Movement  for  the  Unity  of  the  Left  (Movimiento  para  la  Unidad 
de  la  Izquierda — MUI)  and  the  Revolutionary  Movement  of  the 
Christian  Left  (Movimiento  Revolucionario  de  la  Izquierda  Cris- 
tiana — MRIC).  Borja  also  had  the  support  of  the  FRA  (Alfarist 
Radical  Front),  the  Maoist  MPD,  and  CFP  (Concentration  of  Pop- 
ular Forces). 

Borja  took  office  in  August  1988  promising  to  reverse  completely 
the  policy  course  of  Febres  Cordero.  He  called  for  a  "pluralist 
cabinet"  and  a  "government  of  consensus,"  meaning  a  national 
understanding  (concertacion)  among  workers,  employers,  and  the 
government.  His  cabinet  included  seven  ID  members,  four  indepen- 
dents, and  one  DP  member,  as  well  as  the  two  secretaries  general, 
who  belonged  to  the  ID.  Borja,  a  former  professor  of  constitutional 
law  at  the  Central  University,  made  respect  for  legal  guarantees 
a  central  theme  in  the  selection  of  his  ministers.  His  government 
energetically  investigated  alleged  civil  abuses  perpetrated  by  Febres 
Cordero' s  government  and  secured  several  convictions. 

The  Borja  government  also  took  a  new  direction  by  making 
moves  to  appease  opposition  elements  within  military  and  guer- 
rilla ranks.  In  November  1988,  with  the  approval  of  the  CSJ  and 
several  other  institutions,  including  the  military,  Borja  pardoned 
the  air  force  paratroopers  who  had  kidnaped  Febres  Cordero  and 


187 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

had  become,  in  jail,  heroes  among  left-wing  and  populist  parties. 
In  early  1989,  the  Borja  government  negotiated  an  agreement  with 
the  Eloy  Alfaro  Popular  Armed  Forces  (Fuerzas  Armadas  Populares 
Eloy  Alfaro — FAP-EA),  popularly  known  as  the  Alfaro  Lives, 
Damnit!  (j Alfaro  Vive,  Carajo! — AVC),  a  guerrilla/terrorist  group 
founded  in  1982  (see  Internal  Security,  ch.  5).  Borja  also  pardoned 
a  number  of  imprisoned  former  air  force  members  (see  Political 
Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  this  ch.).  In  mid- 1989,  his  legislative 
coalition  with  Hurtado's  Christian  Democratic  party  ended  by 
mutual  accord:  Hurtado  had  opposed  it  from  the  start,  and  Borja 
no  longer  needed  the  agreement  with  the  Christian  Democrats,  hav- 
ing won  the  support  of  other  small  parties. 

Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups 

Interest  groups  able  to  influence  regime  changes  traditionally 
have  included  the  church,  the  military,  the  agrarian  elite,  the  largely 
Guayaquil-based  commercial  community,  foreign  commercial  in- 
terests, the  urban  working  class,  the  politically  active  peasantry  and 
rural  workers,  and  the  middle  class  (including  students).  Some  of 
these  groups  have  formed  alliances  with  or  have  manipulated  less 
influential  groups.  Motivated  primarily  by  parochial  concerns, 
many  of  these  interest  groups,  like  the  political  parties  themselves, 
have  provided  little  impetus  to  national  development.  Other  smaller 
interest  groups  have  included  the  myriad  of  governmental  autono- 
mous agencies,  which  generally  controlled  their  own  funds  and  fol- 
lowed their  own  policies.  Illegal  political  extremist  organizations, 
such  as  the  AVC  and  a  nascent  narcotics- trafficking  mafia,  may, 
in  a  sense,  constitute  additional,  unconventional  interest  groups. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church 

The  role  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in  society  was  the  most 
divisive  political  issue  in  Ecuador  for  more  than  a  century  after 
independence.  Despite  the  confiscation  of  its  land  by  the  Alfaro 
government  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  church 
in  the  Sierra  retained  its  preeminent  position  in  social  and  eco- 
nomic life.  In  the  more  remote  villages  and  small  towns  of  the 
Sierra,  the  parish  priest  was  often  seen  as  the  ultimate  temporal, 
as  well  as  spiritual,  authority.  The  church  gave  religious  and  moral 
legitimacy  to  the  actions  of  its  defender,  the  PC.  By  contrast,  the 
Costa  was  the  base  of  the  PLR,  whose  major  platform  traditionally 
had  been  anticlericalism.  PLR  policies  caused  the  clergy  and  many 
devout  laymen  to  rise  to  the  defense  of  the  church  and  its  preroga- 
tives. Nonetheless,  by  1945  the  church-state  conflict  had  ceased 
to  be  a  significant  political  issue  on  the  national  level. 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


In  the  1960s,  the  church  hierarchy,  influenced  by  reform-oriented 
papal  encyclicals,  endorsed  land  reform,  a  more  just  system  of  taxa- 
tion, and  workers'  rights.  The  church  underwent  a  process  of  sig- 
nificant internal  transformation  and  ideological  renovation  and 
found  itself  cast  in  the  role  of  an  advocate  of  far-reaching  change 
and  innovation  (see  Religion,  ch.  2).  Nevertheless,  Thomas  G. 
Sanders  noted  that  the  Catholic  Church  in  Ecuador  had  become 
firmly  committed  to  nonpartisanship  by  the  late  1970s.  According 
to  Sanders,  the  Ecuadorian  church's  more  neutral  role  contributed 
to  political  stability  and  strengthened  pluralism  by  emphasizing  na- 
tional unity  and  the  need  to  promote  social  justice. 

The  Military 

Historically,  the  military  establishment  alternated  between  direct 
or  indirect  control  over  the  executive  functions  in  general  and  a 
more  limited  role  of  exercising  a  veto  over  policies  considered  to 
fall  within  the  area  of  its  corporate  interests  (see  Involvement  in 
Politics  and  Government,  ch.  5).  In  contrast  with  the  pattern  found 
in  the  majority  of  Latin  American  countries,  the  Ecuadorian  mili- 
tary, which  traditionally  was  allied  with  the  PLR,  early  on  became 
more  closely  identified  with  the  merchant  class  than  with  the  land- 
holding  elite.  After  the  decline  of  the  traditional  parties  in  the  early 
twentieth  century  and  the  rise  of  ad  hoc  political  coalitions,  however, 
the  military  acquired  greater  autonomy  as  an  institutional  politi- 
cal force. 

Constitutions  between  1945  and  1979  have  legitimized  the  role 
of  the  military  in  policy  making  by  allotting  to  the  officer  corps 
an  official  seat  in  the  Senate.  Interventions  between  1945  and  1963 
arose  most  often  over  issues  considered  basic  by  the  military  leader- 
ship. For  example,  in  1962  the  military  pressured  President  Carlos 
Julio  Arosemena  Monroy  to  sever  relations  with  Cuba  and  other 
socialist  countries.  When  they  ousted  him  in  1963,  it  was  only  after 
more  than  a  year  of  encouragement  by  various  political  factions 
and  economic  interest  groups,  all  of  which  were  concerned  over 
the  chaotic  drift  in  national  affairs  and  over  Arosemena' s  personal 
conduct  (see  Instability  and  Military  Dominance,  1960-72,  ch.  1). 
After  assuming  power,  however,  the  military  became  increasingly 
confident  of  its  ability  to  rule  better  than  civilians.  The  changing 
attitude  of  the  officer  corps,  coupled  with  its  declining  trust  in 
civilian  leaders,  was  attributed  in  part  to  a  new  emphasis  in  mili- 
tary training  on  technical  and  managerial  skills  and  to  extensive 
foreign  training  in  general. 

Factionalism  within  the  armed  forces  has  helped  to  account  for 
the  propensity  of  military  plotting  against  civilian  governments, 


189 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


as  well  as  the  difficulties  encountered  by  the  military  establishment 
in  its  attempts  to  govern  on  its  own.  Civilian  contenders  for  politi- 
cal power  often  sought  the  support  of  dissident  elements  of  the  mili- 
tary in  order  to  topple  an  administration  or  to  forestall  an  electoral 
outcome  unfavorable  to  them.  At  the  same  time,  factions  within 
the  military  aligned  themselves  with  civilian  groups  in  order  to 
strengthen  their  own  positions  vis-a-vis  other  military  factions.  For 
example,  when  widespread  civilian  discontent  boded  ill  for  the  con- 
tinuation of  government  by  junta  in  1966,  important  elements  of 
the  armed  forces  joined  the  civilian  opposition  and  contributed  to 
the  fall  of  the  junta. 

On  numerous  occasions,  the  military  applied  its  influence  to  ward 
off  political  developments  that  it  opposed  or  to  intervene  indirectly. 
For  example,  when  the  leftist  opposition  in  Congress  undertook 
to  impeach  Febres  Cordero  in  January  1987,  armed  forces  represen- 
tatives warned  the  president  of  Congress  that  the  military  would 
shut  down  the  legislature  if  impeachment  proceedings  were  not 
halted.  Febres  Cordero's  interference  in  internal  military  matters, 
however,  created  resentments,  as  demonstrated  dramatically  by 
the  military  rebellions  in  March  1986.  In  June  1987,  a  group  of 
about  a  dozen  army  and  naval  officers  met  with  the  defense  minister 
and  suggested  that  Febres  Cordero  resign.  The  military  also  report- 
edly threatened  to  intervene  if  Bucaram  won  the  1988  presidential 
election. 

The  Economic  Elite 

In  popular  usage,  the  term  oligarchy  referred  to  the  old  Quito 
upper  class,  whose  fortunes  were  amassed  originally  through  owner- 
ship of  land,  and  to  prominent  commercial  groups  in  Guayaquil. 
Although  members  of  the  wealthiest  families  historically  seldom 
participated  personally  in  politics — except  for  serving  in  diplomatic 
posts  in  Europe  or  the  United  States  or  as  foreign  ministers — the 
economic  elite  often  appeared  to  manage  political  affairs  to  its  own 
advantage. 

Since  the  mid-twentieth  century,  associational  interest  groups 
representing  the  upper  class  have  proliferated.  Commercial,  in- 
dustrial, and  agricultural  associations  became  increasingly  impor- 
tant, even  in  provincial  capitals  where  informal  connections  were 
previously  considered  sufficient.  After  the  constitution  of  1967  al- 
lowed agricultural,  commercial,  and  industrial  associations  to  elect 
one  senator  each  from  the  Sierra  and  one  each  from  the  Costa, 
the  Senate  became  dominated  by  representatives  of  employer  groups 
(see  Elite,  ch.  2). 


190 


A  view  of  the  Northern  Sierra 
Courtesy  Patricia  Mothes 


Although  lacking  the  claims  to  aristocracy  of  the  Quito  upper 
class,  Guayaquil's  commercial  and  financial  elite  was  the  wealthi- 
est in  the  country.  Its  members  espoused  liberal  principles,  such 
as  the  expansion  of  political  participation,  but  generally  seemed 
even  less  disposed  toward  economic  reforms  than  did  its  counter- 
parts in  Quito.  The  coastal  elite  participated  in  the  political  process 
by  financing  the  campaigns  of  various  parties  and  factions.  It  was 
well  organized,  principally  through  the  Guayaquil  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  and  was  capable  of  raising  the  banner  of  regional  au- 
tonomy whenever  its  interests  were  threatened. 

The  provincial  landowners  formed  the  most  conservative  of  all 
significant  political  groups.  Their  strength  was  much  greater  in  the 
Sierra  than  on  the  Costa,  and  they  were  especially  powerful  in 
provincial  and  municipal  affairs  in  the  south.  Until  the  dissolu- 
tion of  Congress  in  1970,  hacendado  associations  were  strongly 
represented  in  that  body,  both  through  the  regional  senators  and 
deputies  representing  the  southern  highland  provinces  and  through 
the  senators  elected  by  the  associations  themselves.  There  was  broad 
sympathy  and  support  for  the  hacendado  viewpoint  among  those 
who  monopolized  most  instruments  of  power. 


191 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 
Labor 

Disunited  and  poorly  organized  for  most  of  its  history,  the  labor 
movement  developed  only  slowly  and  had  only  a  marginal  politi- 
cal impact.  Precise  figures  on  unionization  in  the  late  1980s  were 
practically  nonexistent,  even  within  the  unions  themselves.  The 
organized  labor  movement  was  divided  into  four  confederations 
and  a  number  of  independent  federations.  At  the  local  level,  labor 
organizations  also  took  the  form  of  artisan  guilds,  cooperatives, 
and  neighborhood  associations.  In  addition  to  representing  only 
a  minority  of  the  workers  in  all  sectors  of  employment  (approxi- 
mately one-fifth),  the  labor  movement  traditionally  was  weakened 
by  rivalry  and  government  repression.  Nevertheless,  it  had  influence 
disproportionate  to  its  numbers  as  a  result  of  the  concentration  of 
labor  unions  in  urban  areas,  mainly  Quito  and  Guayaquil,  its  or- 
ganizational power,  and  the  political  impact  of  strikes  and  demon- 
strations on  governments  that  did  not  enjoy  strong  support. 

Professional  or  employee  associations  (cdmaras),  composed  of 
middle-class,  white-collar  workers,  constituted  about  25  percent 
of  all  labor  unions.  Representing  the  dominant  economic  groups 
in  the  country,  these  associations  exercised  a  predominant  influence 
on  economic  policy;  their  representatives  frequently  held  cabinet 
posts  and  other  top  government  positions  dealing  with  economics. 
The  support  of  the  associations  proved  crucial  to  most  governments. 

Although  union  organizations  began  forming  in  Ecuador  early 
in  the  twentieth  century,  organized  workers  did  not  begin  to  ac- 
quire any  influence  until  the  late  1930s.  Key  events  in  Ecuador's 
labor  history  took  place  in  1938  with  the  promulgation  of  the  Labor 
Code  and  the  founding  of  the  first  labor  confederation,  the  Ecua- 
dorian Federation  of  Classist  Organizations  (Central  Ecuatoriana 
de  Organizaciones  Clasistas — CEDOC).  Between  1938  and  1949, 
some  550  labor  organizations  were  formed.  These  included  the 
country's  second  confederation,  the  Confederation  of  Ecuadorian 
Workers  (Confederacion  de  Trabajadores  Ecuatorianos — CTE), 
which  began  operating  in  1944.  A  total  of  3,093  unions  were  es- 
tablished between  1950  and  1973. 

CEDOC  was  never  an  effective  articulator  of  worker  interests, 
being  more  concerned  with  religious  causes,  combating  efforts  to 
eliminate  exclusion  of  ecclesiastical  control  and  influence  in  labor 
organizations,  and  curtailing  communist  infiltration  in  the  labor  sec- 
tor. Although  of  Catholic  origin,  CEDOC  rejected  its  Christian 
Democratic  leadership  in  1976  and  adopted  a  socialist  orientation. 
The  old  leaders  retained  the  support  of  a  few  grassroots  organiza- 
tions and  formed  a  parallel  organization.  Approximately  80  percent 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


of  CEDOC 'S  membership  came  from  the  Ecuadorian  Federation 
of  Peasant  Organizations  (Federacion  Ecuatoriana  de  Organiza- 
ciones  Campesinas— FEDOC).  In  the  mid-1980s,  CEDOC  had 
unions  in  fifteen  of  the  twenty  provinces;  its  estimated  member- 
ship of  130,000  was  largely  composed  of  artisans,  with  almost  no 
industrial  worker  membership.  After  twelve  years  of  political  di- 
vision, the  two  CEDOC  branches  united  in  1988  and  formed  the 
Ecuadorian  Confederation  of  Classist  Organizations  for  Workers' 
Unity  (Confederacion  Ecuatoriana  de  Organizaciones  Clasistas  para 
la  Unidad  de  los  Trabajadores— CEDOCUT). 

Through  militant  activities,  such  as  petitions,  collective  conflicts, 
and  general  strikes,  the  CTE — composed  predominantly  of  indus- 
trial workers  and  led  by  members  of  the  communist  and  socialist 
parties — emerged  as  the  principal  labor  organization  in  Ecuador 
in  the  late  1970s.  Although  the  CTE  had  become  the  largest  of 
the  three  national  confederations  by  the  1970s,  its  hegemony 
declined  in  the  1980s  as  a  result  of  the  growth  of  rival  confedera- 
tions, internal  conflicts  and  splits,  and  governmental  repression. 
In  1987  only  a  shadow  remained  of  its  peasant  federation,  the  Ec- 
uadorian Indian  Federation  (Federacion  Ecuatoriana  de  Indios— 
FEI).  The  CTE  still  included  a  number  of  industrial  unions  and 
various  public-sector  unions,  and  was  organizing  autonomous  work- 
ers. It  encompassed  an  estimated  55,000  members  in  200  affili- 
ated unions. 

The  Communist  Party  of  Ecuador — Marxist- Leninist  established 
a  small  federation,  the  General  Union  of  Ecuadorian  Workers 
(Union  General  de  Trabajadores  Ecuatorianos — UGTE),  in  an  at- 
tempt to  rival  the  CTE.  Apart  from  the  powerful  National  Union 
of  Teachers  (Union  Nacional  de  Educadores — UNE),  which  had 
about  100,000  members,  the  UGTE  had  little  success  in  affiliat- 
ing unions.  Together  with  student  unions  and  a  few  other  groups, 
the  UGTE  formed  the  Popular  Front  (Frente  Popular— FP),  which 
in  the  1980s  was  attempting  to  rival  the  United  Workers  Front 
(Frente  Unitario  de  Trabajadores — FUT)  in  organizing  protest 
action. 

The  Inter- American  Regional  Organization  of  Workers  (Or- 
ganization Regional  Interamericana  de  Trabajadores — ORIT) 
tried  to  unify  the  non-Marxist  unions  by  founding  the  Ecuadorian 
Confederation  of  Free  Trade  Union  Organizations  (Confederacion 
Ecuatoriana  de  Organizaciones  Sindicales  Libres — CEOSL)  in 
1962.  The  CEOSL  became  the  third-largest  confederation,  with 
membership  consisting  almost  exclusively  of  urban  white-  and  blue- 
collar  workers.  It  included  fourteen  provincial  and  thirteen  national 
federations  made  up  of  a  large  proportion  of  industrial  workers,  a 


193 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

number  of  members  from  the  service  sector,  and  a  small  number 
of  agricultural  workers,  peasants,  and  craftsmen. 

FUT  emerged  in  1971  and  eventually  united  the  three  main 
confederations — CEDOC,  CEOSL,  and  CTE — plus  a  number  of 
independent  unions,  including  the  Catholic  Federation  of  Workers 
(Central  Catolica  de  Obreros — CCO),  making  FUT  the  country's 
largest  workers'  confederation.  By  the  1980s,  FUT  totaled  an  esti- 
mated 300,000  members  and  emerged  as  the  leader  of  a  massive 
movement  that  arose  spontaneously  to  protest  the  economic  cri- 
sis, and  that  greatly  outnumbered  the  ranks  of  unionized  workers. 
FUT  nearly  toppled  President  Hurtado  in  1982  when  he  introduced 
austerity  measures  in  the  face  of  the  debt  crisis.  In  June  1988,  FUT, 
together  with  the  National  Coordinator  of  Workers  (Coordinadora 
Nacional  de  Trabajadores — CNT),  the  Confederation  of  Indige- 
nous Nationalities  of  Ecuador  (Confederation  de  Nacionalidades 
Indigenas  del  Ecuador — Conaie),  and  FP,  staged  a  one-day  na- 
tional strike  aimed  at  obtaining  a  large  increase  in  the  minimum 
wage  and  a  freeze  on  the  prices  of  basic  goods.  It  was  the  seventh 
general  labor  action  against  the  Febres  Cordero  government  and 
coincided  with  an  ongoing  strike  by  the  UNE  for  a  rise  in  monthly 
wages.  The  impact  of  FUT  remained  limited,  however,  because 
the  federation  tended  to  maintain  its  working-class  orientation, 
bas~d  on  wage  claims,  and  in  practice  gave  relatively  little  impor- 
tance to  the  claims  of  other  sectors  that  looked  to  it  for  leadership. 

Students 

Beginning  in  the  first  decade  of  the  twentieth  century,  students 
took  to  the  streets  on  a  number  of  occasions  in  defense  of  public 
freedoms,  university  autonomy  and  reform,  separation  of  church 
and  state,  and  opposition  to  dictatorship.  Following  the  establish- 
ment in  1944  of  the  Federation  of  University  Students  of  Ecuador 
(Federacion  de  Estudiantes  Universitarios  del  Ecuador — FEUE), 
the  student  movement,  spurred  by  campus  representatives  of  the 
political  parties,  became  increasingly  politicized  and  one  of  the  most 
influential  pressure  groups  in  the  country,  playing  a  role  in  every 
nonconstitutional  change  of  government.  Both  the  FEUE  and  the 
Federation  of  High  School  Students  of  Ecuador  (Federacion  de 
Estudiantes  Secundarios  del  Ecuador — FESE)  contributed  signif- 
icantly to  the  downfall  in  1966  of  the  military  junta,  which  had 
abolished  university  autonomy  and  student-faculty  government. 
Student  federations  were  organized  at  Catholic  universities  in  1966 
and  at  the  polytechnic  schools  in  1969.  In  the  early  1970,  the  FEUE 
represented  some  40,000  student  at  five  public  and  two  Catholic 


194 


Broadcasting  in  Quichua 
over  Radio  Latacunga  in  Cotopaxi  Province 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Foundation  (Miguel  Say  ago) 

universities,  one  non-Catholic  private  university,  and  the  polytech- 
nic schools  (see  Education,  ch.  2). 

During  the  late  1960s,  the  student  movement,  heavily  influenced 
by  the  Cuban  Revolution,  had  assumed  a  militantly  anti-oligarchy, 
anti-military,  and  anti-imperialist  orientation.  Student  radicalism 
prompted  the  military  government  to  intervene  brutally  in  the  Cen- 
tral University  in  1966  and  to  close  it  in  1970.  In  the  late  1970s, 
the  student  movement,  seriously  weakened  as  a  result  of  endemic 
factionalism  and  the  increasing  isolation  of  the  FEUE  leadership, 
faced  invincible  shortcomings.  With  few  exceptions,  the  political 
action  of  the  university  federations  in  the  1970s  had  gone  no  far- 
ther than  press  statements,  graffiti,  revolutionary  pamphlets,  street 
demonstrations,  meetings,  strikes,  and  work  stoppages.  Conse- 
quently, the  groups  had  lost  their  traditional  political  prestige  and 
the  support  of  important  segments  of  the  student  population. 

The  Media 

Although  the  1979  Constitution  accords  Ecuadorians  the  right 
to  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression  of  thought,  media  owner- 
ship has  remained  concentrated  in  the  hands  of  a  few  large  interests. 
In  the  late  1980s,  all  media  were  privately  controlled,  except  the 


195 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

National  Radio  (Radio  Nacional),  which  was  operated  by  the 
government's  ministerial-level  National  Communications  Secre- 
tariat (Secretaria  Nacional  de  Comunicaciones — Senac),  previously 
called  the  National  Secretariat  for  Public  Information  (Secretaria 
Nacional  de  Information  Publica — Sendip)  under  the  Febres  Cor- 
dero  administration.  The  government,  however,  controlled  the  al- 
location of  radio  and  television  frequencies.  Historically,  most  media 
owners  endorsed  the  political  status  quo  and  gave  tacit  support  to 
right-wing  governments  and  even  to  dictatorships.  In  the  1980s, 
however,  conservative  interests  were  less  dominant  in  radio  than 
in  television  and  the  written  press. 

The  Febres  Cordero  government  used  the  media  systematically 
in  an  effort  to  gain  media  support  for  its  free-market  economic  poli- 
cies, and  in  the  process  it  infringed  on  press  freedom.  For  exam- 
ple, in  late  1984  the  government  temporarily  closed  five  radio 
stations — four  in  Guayaquil  and  one  in  Quito — after  they  broad- 
cast Guayaquil  mayor  Abdala  Bucaram's  censure  of  Febres  Cor- 
dero. The  government  also  used  economic  means  of  pressure,  such 
as  suspending  its  substantial  public- sector  advertising  in  the  center- 
left  daily  Hoy  and  the  monthly  magazine  Nueva,  as  well  as  pressur- 
ing private  banks  and  companies  not  to  advertise  in  these  publica- 
tions. As  a  result,  the  independent  media  initially  omitted  or  toned 
down  criticism  of  the  government.  However,  two  prestigious  inter- 
American  media  associations  criticized  the  Febres  Cordero  govern- 
ment for  alleged  violations  of  press  freedom.  In  a  report  released 
in  March  1985,  the  Inter- American  Press  Association  accused  the 
government  of  intolerance  toward  the  independent  press  and  a  lack 
of  objectivity  in  government  press  releases.  In  addition,  many  op- 
position journalists  complained  that  the  government  was  using  legal 
or  pseudo-legal  devices  and  pretexts  to  reduce  further  the  already 
limited  space  available  to  the  minority  press.  In  1987  opposition 
radio  and  television  stations  continued  to  experience  government 
attempts  to  stifle  the  media.  The  ability  of  the  government  to  pres- 
sure state  and  private  companies  to  discriminate  against  the  in- 
dependent media  diminished  following  the  erosion  of  Febres 
Cordero 's  standing  and  influence. 

On  taking  office  in  August  1988,  Borja  vowed  to  uphold  free- 
dom of  the  press  and  appointed  various  journalists  to  high-level 
governmental  posts.  Senac,  composed  of  new  members  appointed 
by  Borja,  undertook  efforts  to  make  the  government  accessible 
to  the  media  and  to  promote  freedom  of  the  press.  Senac  also 
abolished  the  progovernment  simulcasts  initiated  by  the  Febres 
Cordero  administration  and  allowed  Channel  5  in  Quito  to  resume 
broadcasting  in  August  1988,  after  being  closed  for  four  years. 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


Ecuador  had  ten  principal  television  stations  in  the  late  1980s. 
The  country's  commercial  radio  stations  numbered  over  260,  in- 
cluding 10  cultural  and  10  religious  stations.  The  "Voice  of  the 
Andes"  station  had  operated  for  more  than  fifty  years  as  an  evan- 
gelical Christian  shortwave  radio  service  supported  largely  by  con- 
tributions from  the  United  States. 

Ecuador  had  only  thirty  daily  newspapers  in  the  late  1980s.  The 
newspapers  with  the  largest  circulations,  El  Comercio  and  El  Universo, 
were  published  in  Quito  and  Guayaquil,  respectively.  Founded  in 
the  1920s,  they  were  closely  connected  with  each  city's  small  but 
powerful  business  community  in  the  1980s.  Quito  and  Guayaquil 
each  had  four  dailies.  Quito's  largest  newspaper,  El  Comercio,  was 
conservative  and  had  a  circulation  of  130,000.  El  Comercio  also 
owned  an  evening  newspaper,  Ultimas  Noticias.  The  Quito-based 
Hoy,  founded  in  the  early  1980s,  had  a  circulation  in  1987  of  be- 
tween 35,000  and  40,000.  Guayaquil's  El  Universo  was  indepen- 
dent and  had  a  circulation  of  between  120,000  and  190,000  on 
weekdays  and  225,000  on  Sundays.  Guayaquil's  second  newspaper, 
Expreso,  published  evening  newspapers  in  both  cities:  Extra  in 
Guayaquil  and  La  Hora  in  Quito.  Some  ten  international  news  agen- 
cies had  bureaus  in  Quito. 

The  principal  weekly  periodicals  that  covered  political  and  eco- 
nomic affairs  were  Quito's  La  Calle,  with  a  circulation  of  20,000, 
and  Guayaquil's  Andlisis  Semanal  and  Vistazo.  Nueva,  with  a  circu- 
lation of  between  12,000  and  14,000,  was  founded  in  the  early  1970s 
as  an  alternative  magazine  oriented  to  those  sectors  of  the  popula- 
tion that  were  under-represented  by  the  traditional  press,  such  as 
trade  union  workers,  intellectuals,  and  Indians. 

Among  Ecuador's  ten  principal  publishers,  only  Editorial  Clari- 
dad  and  Pontificia  Universidad  Catolica  del  Ecuador,  published 
books  on  politics.  According  to  the  United  States  Department  of 
State  in  the  late  1980s,  there  was  no  political  censorship  of  domes- 
tic or  foreign  books,  films,  or  works  of  art,  and  no  government 
interference  with  academic  inquiry. 

Foreign  Relations 

According  to  the  United  States  Department  of  State,  Ecuador's 
principal  foreign-policy  objectives  have  included  defense  of  the  na- 
tional territory  from  external  aggression  and  internal  subversion; 
support  for  the  objectives  of  the  United  Nations  (UN)  and  the  Or- 
ganization of  American  States  (OAS);  defense  of  its  claim  to  320 
kilometers  of  territorial  and  fisheries  jurisdictions  off  its  coast;  and 
revision  of  the  1942  Protocol  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Bound- 
aries (Rio  Protocol),  which  ended,  at  least  officially,  open  warfare 


197 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

between  Peru  and  Ecuador  over  a  territorial  dispute.  Although  Ec- 
uador's foreign  relations  traditionally  have  centered  on  the  United 
States,  Ecuador's  membership  in  the  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries  (OPEC)  in  the  1970s  and  1980s  allowed  some 
Ecuadorian  leaders  to  exercise  somewhat  greater  foreign  policy 
autonomy.  Ecuador's  international  foreign  policy  goals  under  the 
Borja  government  in  the  late  1980s  were  more  diversified  than  those 
of  the  Febres  Cordero  administration,  which  closely  identified  with 
the  United  States.  For  example,  Ecuador  was  more  active  in  its 
relations  with  the  Third  World,  multilateral  organizations,  Western 
Europe,  and  socialist  countries. 

The  United  States 

The  United  States  maintained  good  relations  with  Ecuador's 
democratically  elected  governments  in  the  1980s.  These  close  ties 
were  based  on  trade,  investment  and  finance,  cooperation  in  Ec- 
uador's economic  development,  and  participation  in  inter- American 
organizations  and  treaties,  including  the  Western  Hemisphere's 
regional  mutual  security  treaty,  the  Inter-American  Treaty  of 
Reciprocal  Assistance  (Rio  Treaty)  of  1947.  The  United  States 
provided  US$48  million  in  assistance  to  Ecuador  in  1988  and  was 
its  main  commercial  partner.  The  United  States  provided  economic 
assistance  through  its  Agency  for  International  Development  pro- 
gram in  Ecuador  and  multilateral  organizations,  such  as  the  Inter- 
American  Development  Bank  and  World  Bank  (see  Glossary).  In 
addition,  the  United  States  Peace  Corps  operated  a  sizable  pro- 
gram in  Ecuador. 

Three  irritants  in  particular  affected  bilateral  relations  in  the 
1970s  and  1980s.  One  was  the  United  States  Foreign  Trade  Act 
of  1974,  which  denied  (until  the  1980s)  favorable  tariff  treatment 
to  all  OPEC  members,  even  though  neither  Ecuador  nor  Venezuela 
participated  in  the  1973  oil  boycott  of  the  United  States.  Ecuador 
also  reacted  indignantly  in  early  1977  when  the  United  States 
prohibited  Israel  from  selling  a  dozen  Kfir  fighter-bombers  to  Ec- 
uador because  the  aircraft  contained  licensed  General  Electric  en- 
gines. In  1981,  however,  the  United  States  lifted  the  prohibition 
(see  Equipment  Sources,  ch.  5).  An  additional  aggravation  was 
a  dispute  over  the  extent  of  the  territorial  sea  claimed  by  Ecuador 
since  1953  and  its  rights  over  highly  migratory  fish  traveling  through 
these  waters.  In  the  early  1970s,  Ecuador  seized  about  100  tuna 
boats  flying  the  United  States  flag  and  collected  fines  and  fees  total- 
ing more  than  US$6  million.  No  additional  seizures  occurred  until 
November  1980,  when  ten  tuna  boats  were  detained  while  fishing 
and  fined.  That  action  provoked  a  United  States  embargo  on  the 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


importing  of  tuna  from  Ecuador.  Although  still  unresolved,  the 
territorial  sea  and  fishing  issues  did  not  adversely  affect  bilateral 
relations  for  most  of  the  1980s. 

Febres  Cordero's  foreign  policy  was  characterized  by  a  marked 
preference  for  bilateralism  and  closer  ties  to  the  United  States.  His 
foreign  and  economic  policies  mirrored  those  advocated  by  the  ad- 
ministration of  President  Ronald  Reagan,  particularly  on  matters 
related  to  Central  America  and  Latin  America's  international  debt. 
During  Febres  Cordero's  week-long  state  visit  to  Washington  in 
January  1986,  United  States  and  Ecuadorian  officials  repeatedly 
underlined  their  two  presidents'  total  agreement  on  economic  and 
political  matters. 

Ecuador  was  almost  alone  in  its  enthusiastic  reception  of  the  1986 
Baker  Plan  (named  after  then  United  States  secretary  of  the  trea- 
sury James  A.  Baker  III)  for  alleviating  Third  World  debt,  which 
called  for  fresh  infusions  of  capital  into  the  debt-ridden  countries, 
contingent  on  structural  reforms.  Febres  Cordero  advocated  bi- 
lateral negotiation  rather  than  the  use  of  a  regional  "cartel"  to 
renegotiate  the  debt  and  strongly  favored  an  "understanding"  be- 
tween debtor  and  creditor  nations.  (Nevertheless,  Ecuador  stopped 
paying  interest  on  its  debt  in  1987.)  The  Febres  Cordero  govern- 
ment also  ignored  petroleum  production  quotas  set  by  OPEC  and 
threatened  to  withdraw  from  the  cartel  as  well. 

Febres  Cordero  approved  "Operation  Blazing  Trails,"  a  United 
States-sponsored  civic-action  project  to  repair  bridges  and  roads 
in  the  earthquake-devastated  province  of  Napo.  The  project  in- 
volved rotating  contingents  of  600  United  States  troops  through 
the  country  at  fifteen-day  intervals  beginning  in  May  1986,  until 
an  Ecuadorian  congressional  resolution  in  July  called  for  their  im- 
mediate withdrawal.  Marxist  and  centrist  leaders  alike  had  de- 
nounced Febres  Cordero's  approval  of  the  project  as  a  violation 
of  national  sovereignty. 

United  States  secretary  of  state  George  P.  Shultz  attended  Borja's 
swearing-in  ceremony  on  August  10,  1988.  During  his  first  year 
in  office,  Borja  remained  on  good  terms  with  the  United  States. 
In  his  meeting  with  United  States  vice  president  Daniel  Quayle 
in  Caracas  in  February  1989,  Borja  stressed  the  need  for  good  re- 
lations within  the  framework  of  mutual  respect  and  noninterven- 
tion in  Ecuador's  domestic  affairs.  The  Borja  government  expressed 
satisfaction  with  the  proposal  presented  in  March  1989  by  United 
States  treasury  secretary  Nicolas  Brady  regarding  the  Latin  Ameri- 
can debt  problem.  The  Brady  Plan  called  for  the  creditor  banks 
to  write  off  a  portion  of  a  poor  country's  indebtedness  in  return 
for  guaranteed  repayment  of  the  remaining  debt.  Nevertheless, 


199 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Borja  favored  a  Bolivian-style  policy  of  holding  back  payments  be- 
cause of  poverty. 

Other  Nations  and  International  Organizations 

Ecuador  and  the  Soviet  Union  established  diplomatic  relations 
in  1969,  but  it  was  not  until  1972,  when  Ecuador  joined  OPEC, 
that  the  Soviets  showed  much  interest  in  Ecuador.  By  the  mid- 
1970s,  the  Soviet  Union  maintained  an  embassy  in  Quito  rivaling 
in  importance  that  of  the  United  States. 

Ecuador  traditionally  favored  multilateral  approaches  to  inter- 
national problems.  It  belonged  to  the  UN,  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment (NAM),  the  OAS,  and  other  regional  integration  groupings, 
such  as  the  Latin  American  Economic  System  (Sistema  Economico 
Latinoamericano — SELA),  the  Latin  American  Energy  Organi- 
zation, the  Latin  American  Integration  Association,  and  the  Andean 
Pact.  Ecuador — along  with  Bolivia,  Chile,  Colombia,  and  Peru — 
signed  the  Andean  Pact  and  the  Cartagena  Agreement  in  1969, 
creating  an  Andean  Common  Market.  In  1978  Ecuador  and  seven 
other  South  American  countries  signed  the  Amazon  Pact  treaty 
for  the  joint  development  of  the  Amazon  River  Basin. 

Febres  Cordero,  however,  took  exception  to  Ecuador's  traditional 
multilateralism.  Impatient  with  regional  and  multilateral  arrange- 
ments, he  opposed  the  clause  in  the  Andean  Pact  that  restricted 
foreign  investment,  and  sought  to  have  it  liberalized.  To  that  end, 
Ecuador  threatened  several  times  to  withdraw  from  the  Andean 
Pact.  It  did  not  send  a  representative  to  the  1986  meeting  of  the 
group's  foreign  ministers  in  Uruguay.  The  Febres  Cordero  govern- 
ment also  kept  a  low  profile  in  the  OAS,  SELA,  and  the  Cartagena 
Group. 

Praised  as  "realistic  and  pragmatic"  by  some,  Febres  Cordero 's 
foreign  policy  was  criticized  as  "erratic  and  incongruous"  by  others. 
Evidence  supporting  both  these  views  could  be  found  in  his  govern- 
ment's  relations  with  Cuba  and  Nicaragua  and  his  positions  on 
Latin  American  issues.  On  April  16,  1985,  Febres  Cordero  became 
the  first  conservative  Latin  American  president  to  visit  Cuba  since 
Fidel  Castro  Ruz  took  power  twenty-six  years  earlier.  The  Ecua- 
dorian president  reportedly  talked  at  length  with  Castro  about  ways 
to  ease  the  region's  foreign  debt  burden  and  bring  peace  to  Cen- 
tral America. 

The  Febres  Cordero  government  kept  its  distance,  however,  from 
most  of  the  region's  initiatives  to  promote  Latin  American  solidar- 
ity. In  October  1985,  Ecuador  joined  the  so-called  Lima  Group 
of  four  South  American  nations — Argentina,  Brazil,  Peru,  and 
Uruguay — supporting  the  search  for  peace  in  Central  America 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


initiated  by  the  Contadora  Group  (consisting  of  Mexico,  Venezuela, 
Colombia,  and  Panama,  whose  ministers  first  met  in  1983  on  Con- 
tadora Island  in  the  Gulf  of  Panama).  Nonetheless,  Ecuador  not 
only  withdrew  from  the  Lima  Group  later  that  month,  but  also 
became  the  first  Latin  American  nation  to  break  diplomatic  rela- 
tions with  Nicaragua.  The  break  in  relations,  which  came  suddenly 
after  Febres  Cordero  and  Nicaraguan  president  Daniel  Ortega 
Saavedra  traded  public  insults,  had  the  unintended  effect  of  isolating 
Ecuador  from  other  Latin  American  countries.  Some  observers  also 
viewed  it  as  Febres  Cordero 's  response  to  the  United  States'  re- 
quest for  a  blockade  of  international  aid  to  Nicaragua. 

In  his  inaugural  address,  Borja  vowed  to  pursue  an  indepen- 
dent, nonaligned  foreign  policy  based  on  the  principles  of  self- 
determination  and  nonintervention.  He  believed  that  Latin  Ameri- 
can unity  should  take  priority  over  ideological  differences.  Accord- 
ingly, he  invited  both  Ortega  and  Castro  to  his  inauguration 
ceremony  on  August  10.  Castro  attended  the  event,  but  Febres 
Cordero  refused  to  allow  Ortega  into  the  country,  except  as  a 
tourist.  Consequently,  Ortega  delayed  his  arrival  in  Quito  until 
August  1 1 ,  by  which  time  Borja,  in  one  of  his  first  official  acts  as 
head  of  state,  had  restored  diplomatic  relations  with  Nicaragua. 
Borja  also  expanded  the  relationship  that  Febres  Cordero  had  in- 
itiated with  Cuba,  allowing  some  Cuban  and  Nicaraguan  advisers 
to  assist  in  Ecuador's  National  Literacy  Program.  In  addition,  he 
criticized  the  policy  of  isolating  Cuba  from  international  forums, 
such  as  the  UN  and  OAS. 

Borja  also  endorsed  the  establishment  of  an  OPEC  common  front 
to  defend  oil  prices,  to  fulfill  the  obligations  that  Ecuador  assumed 
in  the  modifying  protocol  of  the  Cartagena  Agreement,  and  to  rein- 
corporate Ecuador  into  the  group  of  Latin  American  countries  sup- 
porting the  Central  American  peace  process.  The  Borja  government 
anticipated  good  relations  with  Venezuela,  another  OPEC  mem- 
ber whose  president,  Carlos  Andres  Perez,  was  Borja' s  closest  as- 
sociate in  the  region.  In  early  1989,  however,  the  Group  of  Eight 
(the  eight  democratic  Latin  American  countries  which  belonged 
to  the  former  Contadora  or  Lima  Groups)  rejected  Ecuador's  bid 
for  membership.  Nevertheless,  in  June  1989  Colombian  president 
Virgilio  Barco  Vargas  invited  Ecuador  to  replace  Panama  in  the 
Group  of  Eight.  In  September  1989,  Borja  stated  publicly  his  be- 
lief that  General  Manuel  Antonio  Noriega,  Panama's  de  facto  leader 
as  commander  of  the  Panama  Defense  Forces,  should  step  down, 
but  added  that  he  opposed  United  States  military  intervention  to 
depose  him. 


201 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

A  protracted  border  dispute  continued  to  strain  relations  between 
Ecuador  and  Peru.  The  approximately  200,000-square-kilometer 
area  of  the  Amazon  (the  Maranon  district),  which  Ecuador  had 
claimed  since  the  nineteenth  century,  contained  the  city  of  Iquitos 
on  the  west  bank  of  the  Amazon  River  and  also  Peru's  main  jun- 
gle petroleum-producing  region.  Since  1960,  when  Ecuador's  presi- 
dent Velasco  declared  invalid  the  Rio  Protocol,  under  which  the 
area  was  recognized  as  Peru's,  Ecuador  had  continued  to  assert 
its  right  to  the  disputed  region  and  to  emphasize  its  need  for  an 
outlet  to  the  Atlantic  via  the  Amazon  River  (see  Reform,  Chaos, 
and  Debacle,  1925-44).  A  small  border  war  with  Peru  broke  out 
on  January  28,  1981,  in  the  Condor  mountain  range,  which  runs 
along  the  border  between  the  Amazon  Basin  and  Ecuador.  After 
Peruvian  forces  drove  Ecuadorian  troops  back  from  the  border 
posts,  a  cease-fire  came  into  effect  on  February  1.  A  commission 
composed  of  the  military  attaches  of  the  United  States,  Argentina, 
Brazil,  and  Chile,  who  helped  negotiate  the  cease-fire,  was  charged 
with  supervising  the  border  area.  Most  Ecuadorians,  however,  sup- 
ported their  government's  efforts  to  obtain  a  revision  of  the  1942 
protocol. 

As  a  vice  president  of  the  Socialist  International,  Borja  enjoyed 
good  relations  with  several  West  European  countries.  He  was  par- 
ticularly close  to  Portuguese  president  Mario  Lopes  Soares,  who 
attended  his  inauguration.  The  French-speaking  Ecuadorian  presi- 
dent was  also  a  long-time  admirer  of  France's  president  Francois 
Mitterrand,  whose  wife  Danielle  attended  the  installation  ceremony 
on  behalf  of  France.  The  deputy  prime  minister  of  Spain  also  at- 
tended, as  did  representatives  from  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany),  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East 
Germany),  and  Sweden.  The  Soviet  Union  and  China  were  also 
represented  at  the  inauguration.  The  Borja  government  reaffirmed 
Ecuador's  support  for  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  for 
a  peaceful,  just,  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Middle  East  conflict 
within  the  framework  of  UN  Security  Council  Resolutions  242  and 
338  and  an  international  conference  under  UN  auspices.  Borja  at- 
tended the  NAM  summit  in  Yugoslavia  in  September  1989. 

*    *  * 

The  scholarly  literature  in  English  on  Ecuador's  political  sys- 
tem is  limited.  A  pioneering  study  of  Ecuador's  political  system 
is  George  I.  Blanksten's  Ecuador:  Constitutions  and  Caudillos.  John 
D.  Martz's  Ecuador:  Conflicting  Political  Culture  and  the  Quest  for  Progress 
is  a  somewhat  dated  but  still  useful  historical  study  of  the  political 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


system.  Former  president  Osvaldo  Hurtado's  Political  Power  in  Ec- 
uador is  a  very  informative  and  insightful  academic  study  of  Ecua- 
dorian politics.  Although  some  of  the  data  in  the  revised  version 
remains  outdated  or  inconsistent,  Hurtado's  book  is  nevertheless 
widely  considered  to  be  one  of  the  best  and  most  original  studies 
of  the  country's  political,  economic,  and  intellectual  history.  An 
authoritative  study  of  Ecuador's  constitutional  history  and  politi- 
cal system  in  the  1980s  by  one  of  the  country's  leading  judicial  schol- 
ars is  Hernan  Salgado  Pesants's  Instituciones  Politicas y  Constitucion 
del  Ecuador.  Other  up-to-date,  scholarly  books  include  David  W. 
Schodt's  Ecuador:  An  Andean  Enigma,  Ecuador:  Fragile  Democracy  by 
David  Corkill  and  David  Cubitt,  and  Catherine  M.  Conaghan's 
Restructuring  Domination:  Industrialists  and  the  State  in  Ecuador. 

Insightful  political  analyses  in  academic  journals  include  Martz's 
"Instability  in  Ecuador"  and  Conaghan's  "Ecuador  Swings  To- 
ward Social  Democracy"  in  Current  History.  A  detailed  and  well- 
informed  analysis  (in  French)  of  voting  patterns  in  Ecuador's  1984 
and  1988  presidential  elections  is  "Equateur  de  Leon  Febres 
Cordero  a  Rodrigo  Borja  (1984-1988),"  by  Yves  Saint-Geours. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


203 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Military  chief  clutching  a  club  (Bahia  culture) 


ALTHOUGH  MODEST  IN  SIZE  AND  operational  capacity, 
the  Ecuadorian  armed  forces  (Fuerzas  Armadas — FF.AA.),  have 
been  sufficient  to  deal  with  the  nation's  limited  external  and  domes- 
tic security  concerns.  The  only  outside  hostilities  Ecuador  has  ex- 
perienced have  been  with  Peru  in  1941  and  1981,  when  the  two 
nations  engaged  in  brief  encounters  over  disputed  claims  in  the 
Amazon  River  Basin.  On  both  occasions,  the  Ecuadorian  army 
proved  little  match  for  the  larger  and  better  equipped  Peruvian 
forces.  As  of  1989,  the  distant  prospect  of  some  renewed  confron- 
tation with  Peru  remained  the  primary  justification  for  the  pur- 
chase of  modern  military  armaments.  In  the  late  1980s,  organized 
domestic  terrorism  was  not  the  challenge  in  Ecuador  that  it  was 
in  neighboring  Peru  and  Colombia.  The  security  of  the  northern 
frontier  area  against  drug  traffickers  and  insurgent  groups  originat- 
ing in  Colombia  was,  however,  a  continuing  problem. 

The  president  of  the  republic  functioned  as  commander  in  chief 
of  the  armed  forces.  The  National  Security  Council  (NSC)  and 
the  Joint  Command,  the  chief  of  which  was  the  senior  military 
officer,  advised  the  president  on  defense  issues.  A  ranking  mili- 
tary officer,  either  active  or  retired,  customarily  held  the  position 
of  minister  of  national  defense.  The  army,  the  dominant  branch 
of  the  military  with  about  40,000  troops,  included  five  infantry 
brigades,  two  jungle  brigades,  an  armored  brigade,  and  a  special 
forces  brigade.  The  navy,  with  two  submarines  and  a  number  of 
missile-armed  surface  vessels,  was  capable  of  protecting  territorial 
waters  and  communications  with  the  Galapagos  Islands.  Analysts 
regarded  the  air  force's  three  squadrons  of  modern  fighter  planes 
as  effective  in  both  air  defense  and  ground  support  roles. 

The  military  employed  a  conscription  system  requiring  young 
men  to  serve  for  one  year  at  the  age  of  nineteen.  Those  able  to 
meet  stringent  requirements  could  remain  as  career  personnel. 
Officers  entered  by  way  of  one  of  the  three  military  academies. 
Advancement  was  based  on  merit,  coupled  with  successful  perfor- 
mance in  service  schools  at  various  levels. 

In  the  early  years  of  Ecuadorian  independence,  individual  mili- 
tary leaders  frequentiy  dominated  the  political  system.  The  political 
involvement  of  the  military  institution,  however,  was  a  phenome- 
non of  the  twentieth  century.  Although  the  armed  forces  assumed 
power  only  three  times — in  1925,  1963,  and  1972 — those  were  ex- 
tended periods  and  the  military's  influence  and  interests  loomed 


207 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

continuously  over  the  political  scene.  In  1979,  following  seven  years 
of  reformist  military  rule  that  was  only  partially  successful  in  bring- 
ing about  economic  modernization,  the  armed  forces  oversaw  the 
enactment  of  a  new  constitution  and  voluntarily  returned  to  the 
barracks.  During  the  1970s,  however,  the  armed  forces  had  nearly 
doubled  in  size,  and  defense  spending  rose  accordingly.  Acquir- 
ing its  own  business  enterprises  and  profiting  from  the  oil  bonanza, 
the  military  assembled  a  considerable  inventory  of  modern  weapons, 
including  armored  vehicles,  combat  aircraft,  and  naval  units.  The 
country's  mounting  economic  crisis  and  the  sharp  drop  in  oil  rev- 
enues in  the  1980s,  on  the  other  hand,  brought  an  abrupt  halt  to 
the  equipment  modernization  efforts. 

Although  not  in  sympathy  with  most  of  the  civilian  governments 
of  the  1980s,  the  armed  forces  refrained  from  intervention.  Indeed, 
the  other  service  chiefs  considered  the  revolt  by  the  air  force  com- 
mander in  1986  as  damaging  to  internal  discipline  and  order  and 
did  not  support  him.  In  spite  of  the  blow  to  the  prestige  and  unity 
of  the  armed  forces  caused  by  this  episode  and  the  subsequent  brief 
kidnapping  of  the  president  by  air  force  commandos,  cooperative 
civil-military  relations  remained  an  important  ingredient  in  Ec- 
uadorian political  life. 

Military  Heritage 

Ecuador's  military  history  dates  from  the  first  attempt  to  secure 
freedom  from  Spain  in  181 1 .  The  rebel  forces  of  the  newly  declared 
independent  state  of  Quito  attempted  to  extend  their  control  to  other 
parts  of  Ecuadorian  territory  but  proved  little  match  for  the  army 
dispatched  by  the  viceroy  of  Peru.  In  the  Battle  of  Ibarra  in  De- 
cember 1812,  Spanish  forces  easily  reasserted  control  of  the  coun- 
try. When  the  independence  movement  began  again  in  1820, 
Ecuadorian  forces  assembled  in  Guayaquil,  combining  with  con- 
tingents of  revolutionary  soldiers  from  Colombia  commanded  by 
Antonio  Jose  de  Sucre  Alcala,  a  close  collaborator  of  the  Venezuelan 
liberator,  Simon  Bolivar  Palacios.  After  a  successful  invasion  of 
the  Sierra  (Andean  highlands),  the  rebels  scored  a  decisive  victory 
over  the  royalist  army  in  1822  at  the  Battle  of  Pichincha  (see  The 
Struggle  for  Independence,  ch.  1). 

In  1828,  as  a  member  along  with  Colombia  and  Venezuela  of 
the  Confederation  of  Gran  Colombia,  Ecuador  fought  against  Peru 
to  block  the  latter' s  attempt  at  annexation.  Confederation  forces, 
fewer  than  half  of  which  were  Ecuadorians,  defeated  the  much  larger 
Peruvian  invasion  force  at  a  second  Battle  of  Pichincha  in  Febru- 
ary 1829. 


208 


National  Security 


At  the  dissolution  of  Gran  Colombia  in  1830,  most  of  Ecuador's 
senior  army  officers  and  many  of  its  troops  were  Venezuelans,  as 
was  the  country's  first  president,  Juan  Jose  Flores.  The  army  of 
2,000  men  consisted  of  three  infantry  battalions  and  one  cavalry 
regiment.  Even  as  late  as  1845,  when  Flores  was  forced  from  his 
second  term  of  office,  only  four  of  fifteen  general  officers  were  Ec- 
uadorian. Non-Ecuadorians  comprised  most  of  the  officers  and  non- 
commissioned officers  (NCOs)  of  the  elite  cavalry  units  as  well. 
Upon  taking  office  as  president  in  1851 ,  General  Jose  Maria  Urbina 
freed  the  black  slaves  and  recruited  many  of  them  into  the  military. 

Beginning  in  the  1860s,  successive  governments  attempted  to 
professionalize  the  armed  forces.  Gabriel  Garcia  Moreno,  who 
dominated  the  political  scene  from  1860  until  1875,  reduced  the 
army  in  size  and  depoliticized  it.  Further  improvements  in  the  army 
occurred  during  the  relatively  prosperous  period  of  the  1880s  and 
1890s  under  the  military  dictator  Ignacio  de  Veintemilla  and  suc- 
cessor civilian  governments.  French  officers  arrived  to  provide  train- 
ing on  a  newly  acquired  arsenal  of  weapons.  By  1900  the  army 
was  able  to  repel  an  attack  from  Colombia  by  Ecuadorian  political 
opponents  of  the  government  in  power. 

In  1905  the  government  established  military  education  and  train- 
ing institutions  and  divided  the  country  into  four  defense  zones. 
Immediately  preceding  World  War  I,  the  army  had  nine  infantry 
battalions,  three  cavalry  regiments,  three  artillery  regiments,  and 
three  engineering  battalions.  By  the  mid- 1920s,  it  had  expanded 
to  fifteen  infantry  battalions.  Later,  under  the  influence  of  an  Italian 
military  mission,  the  infantry  was  reduced  to  ten  battalions,  al- 
though each  battalion  now  consisted  of  four  rather  than  the  previ- 
ous two  or  three  rifle  companies.  In  1930  the  army  had  a  total 
strength  of  about  5,500  men  of  all  ranks. 

Despite  the  military's  continual  growth,  in  July  1941,  when  con- 
flict broke  out  over  the  Amazonian  region  disputed  with  Peru,  the 
Ecuadorians  were  ill-prepared  to  resist  invasion.  The  much  larger 
Peruvian  army  of  13,000,  supported  by  a  battalion  of  Czech- 
manufactured  tanks,  together  with  artillery  and  air  power,  moved 
quickly  into  the  southern  coastal  province  of  El  Oro,  threatening 
Guayaquil  (see  fig  1).  The  fewer  than  1,800  Ecuadorian  troops  in 
the  area  lacked  air  cover  and  could  offer  only  limited  resistance. 
Peruvian  forces  also  moved  into  the  disputed  Amazonian  territo- 
ry without  significant  opposition.  After  a  campaign  lasting  only 
three  weeks,  an  armistice  was  arranged.  The  subsequent  Protocol 
of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Boundaries  (Rio  Protocol)  in  early  1942 
imposed  on  Ecuador  acceptance  of  Peru's  claims  in  the  Amazonian 


209 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

region  in  return  for  Peruvian  withdrawal  from  Ecuador's  coastal 
provinces. 

Ecuador  declared  war  on  the  Axis  powers  and  began  to  receive 
military  aid  from  the  United  States  in  1942.  This  aid  consisted  at 
first  of  light  weapons,  mortars,  light  tanks,  and  armored  scout  cars. 
Under  a  military  assistance  agreement  with  the  United  States  in 
1952,  the  Ecuadorian  armed  forces,  which  now  totaled  approxi- 
mately 15,000  troops,  received  additional  equipment,  including 
howitzers,  tanks,  and  armored  personnel  carriers.  Revenue  com- 
ing from  the  oil  discovered  in  the  late  1960s  financed  the  purchase 
of  considerable  additional  ground  forces  weaponry  as  well  as  fighters 
for  the  small  air  force  (see  Armed  Forces,  this  ch.). 

Occasional  clashes  with  Peru  occurred  in  the  border  area  lost 
by  Ecuador  in  the  1942  settlement.  These  clashes  flared  into  an 
outbreak  of  serious  fighting  in  January  1981.  Ecuadorian  troops 
had  apparently  established  an  outpost  on  Peruvian  soil  but  were 
driven  back  in  an  engagement  lasting  five  days  at  a  reported  cost 
to  Ecuador  of  200  deaths.  The  Peruvians  made  effective  use  of 
helicopters,  air  strikes,  and  commando  teams  specially  trained  for 
jungle  operations.  In  1983  and  again  in  1984,  shooting  incidents 
occurred  when  patrols  of  both  countries  met  in  the  territory  still 
claimed  by  Ecuador. 

Strategic  Perspective 

The  predominant  military  concern  remained,  as  of  late  1989, 
Ecuador's  refusal  to  accept  the  boundary  settlement  of  1942  as  final 
(see  Other  Relations  and  International  Organizations,  ch.  4).  The 
southern  deployment  of  many  Ecuadorian  army  and  air  force  com- 
bat units  reflected  the  nation's  preoccupation  with  the  possibility 
of  future  tensions  in  the  disputed  area,  although  the  units  were  not 
in  forward  positions.  Peru's  armed  forces  were  far  stronger  than 
those  of  Ecuador,  but  analysts  regarded  the  likelihood  of  an  un- 
provoked Peruvian  attack  as  remote.  From  a  Peruvian  perspec- 
tive, there  was  no  unsettled  border  problem.  Peru  regarded  the 
Rio  Protocol  as  fixing  the  boundary  permanently  and  subsequent 
confrontations  and  clashes  in  the  area  as  simply  Ecuadorian  efforts 
to  reopen  the  issue. 

As  the  1941  conflict  had  demonstrated,  Ecuador  was  in  a  vul- 
nerable position  in  the  event  of  a  serious  conflict  with  Peru.  Its 
coastal  areas  in  the  south  were  exposed  to  penetration,  and  the  port 
of  Guayaquil  could  be  subjected  to  both  land  attack  and  blockade 
from  the  sea.  In  addition,  observers  noted  that  Ecuador  had  been 
unwilling  to  risk  the  commitment  of  its  modern  fighter  aircraft  dur- 
ing the  1981  hostilities,  presumably  out  of  fear  that  Ecuador's  air 


210 


I 


An  artillery  unit  in  Quito  in  1944 
Courtesy  Prints  and 
Photographs  Division, 
Library  of  Congress 


force  would  suffer  a  crippling  blow  at  the  hands  of  the  stronger 
Peruvian  air  power. 

Ecuador  did  not  believe  it  necessary  to  take  special  military  precau- 
tions against  Colombia,  its  neighbor  to  the  north,  except  to  limit 
the  infiltration  of  terrorists  and  narcotics  traffickers.  Like  the  north- 
eastern border  with  Peru,  the  border  area  with  Colombia  consisted 
of  heavily  canopied  jungle  that  gready  limited  surveillance  by  ground 
patrols  or  air  reconnaissance.  The  jungle  was  inhabited  only  sparsely 
by  Indian  tribes.  Ecuador  and  Colombia  had  cordial  official  rela- 
tions and  no  outstanding  disputes.  The  Colombian  armed  forces, 
although  somewhat  larger  than  those  of  Ecuador,  were  not  geared 
for  offensive  operations.  Moreover,  Colombia  was  preoccupied  with 
serious  internal  security  problems,  notably  narcotics  trafficking  and 
guerrilla  insurgencies.  Although  one  of  these  guerrilla  organi- 
zations— the  19th  of  April  Movement  (Movimiento  19  de  Abril — 
M-19) — had  helped  train  an  Ecuadorian  underground  group,  ter- 
rorism imported  from  Colombia  remained  primarily  a  police  rather 
than  a  military  problem  (see  Internal  Security,  this  ch.). 

As  a  nation  facing  the  Pacific  Ocean,  Ecuador  had  important 
maritime  resources  to  protect,  as  well  as  protecting  the  security 
of  the  Galapagos  Islands,  1,000  kilometers  distant  from  the  main- 
land (see  Geography,  ch.  2).  The  navy  therefore  patrolled  the 
320-kilometer  zone  claimed  as  territorial  waters,  both  off  the  coast 
of  the  mainland  and  around  the  Galapagos  Islands. 


211 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Involvement  in  Politics  and  Government 

With  the  exception  of  Garcia  Moreno,  the  most  powerful  Ecua- 
dorian political  figures  of  the  nineteenth  century  arose  from  the 
military.  Chronically  threatened  by  revolts  and  insurrection,  leaders 
employed  force  to  defend  their  authority.  The  distinction  between 
civilian  and  military  spheres  of  action  was  blurred,  and  the  institu- 
tional identity  of  the  military  had  not  become  wholly  established. 

Reformist  Liberal  governments  of  the  early  part  of  the  twen- 
tieth century  codified  military  law,  regularized  promotions,  and 
banned  soldiers  from  joining  political  parties  or  clubs.  The  estab- 
lishment of  a  military  academy  in  Quito  in  1901  helped  profes- 
sionalize the  armed  forces.  In  addition,  the  military  recruited  an 
increasing  proportion  of  its  officer  corps  from  the  middle  rather 
than  the  upper  class.  By  1916  officers  had  begun  to  regard  them- 
selves increasingly  in  institutional  terms. 

In  1925  the  army  as  an  institution  intervened  in  national  poli- 
tics. A  group  of  young  officers,  objecting  to  the  political  domina- 
tion of  the  Guayaquil  business  oligarchy,  revolted  against  civilian 
rule  (see  The  Rule  of  the  Liberals,  1895-1925,  ch.  1).  Ambivalent 
over  imposing  direct  military  rule,  the  officers  appointed  a  civilian- 
dominated  junta,  followed,  in  1926,  by  a  civilian  as  provisional 
president.  The  army  continued  to  intervene  in  political  affairs  until 
1948,  removing  numerous  presidents.  Yet  the  military  refrained 
from  governing  directly. 

In  1963  the  army  high  command  deposed  President  Carlos  Julio 
Arosemena  Monroy,  perceiving  him  to  be  overly  tolerant  of  the 
communist  threat  against  Latin  America  and  a  national  embar- 
rassment because  of  his  reported  public  drunkenness  (see  Instability 
and  Military  Dominance,  1960-72,  ch.  1).  In  contrast  to  previous 
patterns,  however,  the  army  assumed  direct  control,  claiming  the 
need  to  "end  the  chaos  and  rectify  mistaken  paths"  and  promis- 
ing to  introduce  a  new  socioeconomic  structure.  Over  the  next  three 
years,  the  military  junta  adopted  a  moderate  program  of  fiscal, 
agrarian,  and  industrial  reforms  aimed  at  eliminating  structural 
obstacles  to  development.  The  military  failed  to  mobilize  support 
from  the  intended  beneficiaries  of  its  reforms,  however,  and  stirred 
strong  opposition  from  elite  groups,  especially  Guayaquil  business 
interests.  Shaken  by  the  lack  of  popular  backing  and  an  economic 
downturn  and  fearful  of  damage  to  military  prestige,  the  armed 
forces  relinquished  power  to  a  civilian  interim  president  in  1966. 

The  longest  period  of  direct  control  by  the  armed  forces  occurred 
between  1972  and  1979.  In  1970  President  Jose  Maria  Velasco 
Ibarra,  unable  to  win  congressional  approval  for  his  budget,  had 


212 


National  Security 


assumed  dictatorial  power  with  agreement  of  the  military.  Con- 
cerned over  Velasco's  cumulative  political  misjudgments  and  his 
interference  in  military  promotions  and  assignments,  however,  the 
armed  forces  seized  power  in  1972  (see  Direct  Military  Rule, 
1972-79,  ch.  1).  General  Guillermo  Rodriguez  Lara  launched  an 
era  of  military  authoritarianism  with  a  program  of  state-led  de- 
velopment more  ambitious  than  any  during  previous  interventions 
by  the  armed  forces.  Ranking  officers  held  many  cabinet  posts  or 
became  deputies  in  ministries  and  agencies  headed  by  civilians. 
In  spite  of  being  divided  into  reformist  and  traditionalist  elements, 
the  military  government  brought  banking,  basic  industries,  agricul- 
ture, and  fisheries  under  public-sector  control.  It  also  nationalized 
several  large  unprofitable  enterprises.  In  addition,  the  government 
created  new  mixed-ownership  firms  and  public  enterprises,  nota- 
bly the  Ecuadorian  State  Petroleum  Corporation  (Corporacion 
Estatal  Petrolera  Ecuatoriana — CEPE).  Some  enterprises  served 
the  military's  own  equipment  requirements  and  brought  revenue 
to  the  armed  forces.  After  powerful  large  landholders  diluted  an 
ambitious  effort  to  recast  agriculture  by  redistributing  income  to 
the  peasantry,  however,  the  military's  reformist  thrust  gradually 
lost  momentum. 

Although  key  capital  garrisons  successfully  foiled  a  coup  attempt 
against  Rodriguez  Lara  by  the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces 
in  1975,  discontent  simmered  among  senior  military  and  influen- 
tial civilian  political  elements.  Early  the  following  year,  a  Supreme 
Council  of  Government  composed  of  the  commanders  of  the  army, 
navy,  and  air  force  replaced  Rodriguez  Lara.  The  triumvirate  dis- 
agreed as  to  the  advisability  of  an  early  restoration  of  civilian  govern- 
ment, but  the  commitment  to  gradual  military  withdrawal  espoused 
by  its  head,  Admiral  Afredo  Poveda  Burbano,  prevailed,  and  con- 
stitutional rule  was  restored  in  1979.  The  incoming  civilian  govern- 
ment inherited  serious  economic  problems,  however,  because  of 
the  Supreme  Council's  unwillingness  to  make  unpopular  decisions 
on  wages  and  consumption. 

The  military  attempted  to  limit  its  withdrawal  by  retaining  a  veto 
power  over  undesirable  candidates,  parties,  and  coalitions.  Out- 
maneuvered  by  civilian  politicians,  however,  the  armed  forces  could 
not  prevent  the  electoral  victory  of  a  left-leaning  coalition  that  it 
found  distasteful.  Nonetheless,  the  seven  years  of  military  rule  had 
strengthened  the  position  of  the  armed  forces.  They  controlled  the 
membership  of  the  boards  of  major  state  corporations;  operated  air 
and  sea  transportation  lines;  became  major  industrial  shareholders 
through  investments  made  by  the  Directorate  of  Army  Industries 
(Direction  de  Industrias  del  Ejercito — Dine);  and  received  a  portion 


213 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


of  petroleum  revenues  for  military  requirements.  The  armed  forces 
reportedly  controlled  at  least  fourteen  major  business  enterprises, 
ranging  from  an  automotive  assembly  plant  and  a  profitable  shrimp- 
farming  project  owned  by  the  army  to  a  dredging  company  owned 
by  the  navy,  and  a  domestic  airline  operated  by  the  air  force.  In 
addition,  several  prominent  retired  officers  had  turned  to  politics 
or  management  positions  in  private  or  government-owned  businesses. 

During  the  1980s,  the  military  as  a  whole  remained  loyal  to  the 
constitutional  system.  Nonetheless,  civilian  politicians  could  never 
safely  ignore  the  reactions  of  the  military  to  their  proposed  actions 
and  accepted  a  degree  of  military  autonomy  in  matters  of  national 
defense.  Indeed,  the  outbreak  of  hostilities  with  Peru  in  1981  was 
fundamentally  a  military  affair;  the  elected  civilian  government  had 
litde  choice  but  to  support  the  initiatives  taken  by  the  high  command. 

During  the  conservative  administration  of  President  Leon  Febres 
Cordero  Ribadeneyra  (1984-88),  a  series  of  episodes  inflamed  re- 
lations between  the  military  and  the  executive  branch.  Matters 
reached  a  crisis  point  in  March  1986  when  Lieutenant  General  Frank 
Vargas  Pazzos,  the  air  force  commander  and  chief  of  the  Joint  Com- 
mand of  the  armed  forces,  accused  the  minister  of  national  defense 
and  an  army  commander  of  corruption  and  demanded  their  dis- 
missal. When  the  president  reneged  on  his  commitment  to  remove 
the  two  officers  and  bring  them  to  trial,  Vargas  and  his  supporters 
took  control  of  the  Quito  air  force  base.  The  brief  rebellion  was  put 
down  at  the  cost  of  several  lives,  and  Vargas  was  court-martialed 
and  put  under  house  arrest  at  an  army  base.  In  January  1987,  air 
force  paratroop  commandos  loyal  to  Vargas  seized  Febres  Cordero 
at  the  Taura  Air  Base  near  Guayaquil.  In  return  for  his  freedom, 
the  president  pledged  that  no  reprisals  would  be  taken  against  his 
kidnappers  and  agreed  to  Vargas's  release.  Vargas  later  presented 
himself  as  a  candidate  for  president  and  came  in  fourth  in  the  first- 
round  election  in  January  1988,  winning  over  12  percent  of  the  vote 
(see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4). 

When  the  Congress  initiated  moves  to  impeach  Febres  Cordero, 
the  military  warned  congressional  leaders  that  it  would  shut  down 
the  legislature  if  a  formal  impeachment  action  were  brought  against 
the  president.  Military  authorities  also  backed  Febres  Cordero  in 
proceeding  with  the  court-martialing  of  the  rebellious  paratroopers 
in  spite  of  his  promise  of  immunity.  Nevertheless,  the  episode  shook 
military  unity  and  tarnished  its  prestige  as  an  institution  (see  Po- 
litical Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Armed  Forces 

The  Constitution  of  1979  defines  the  armed  forces  as  a  nonde- 
liberative  body  and  an  instrument  of  civil  authority — an  inaccurate 


214 


National  Security 


reflection  of  the  true  civil-military  relationship  in  Ecuador.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Constitution,  the  president  is  the  commander  in  chief 
of  the  armed  forces  and  the  only  one  authorized  to  grant  military 
ranks.  The  mission  of  the  Public  Forces  (the  armed  forces  and  the 
National  Police)  is  to  preserve  national  sovereignty,  to  defend  the 
integrity  and  independence  of  the  republic,  and  to  guarantee  its 
legal  order.  The  Constitution  further  enjoins  the  Public  Forces, 
in  a  manner  to  be  determined  by  law,  to  lend  their  cooperation 
in  national  economic  and  social  development. 

National  Security  Act  Number  275  of  1979  authorized  the  presi- 
dent to  mobilize  forces  during  threats  of  aggression  and  to  declare 
a  state  of  national  emergency  at  times  of  imminent  aggression, 
major  disturbances,  and  domestic  disasters.  This  law  also  estab- 
lished the  NSC,  chaired  by  the  president,  to  make  recommenda- 
tions on,  and  supervise  execution  of,  national  security  policies.  NSC 
members  included  the  president  of  the  National  Congress  (Con- 
greso  Nacional,  hereafter  Congress);  the  president  of  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Justice;  the  chairs  of  the  National  Development  Council 
and  the  Monetary  Board;  the  ministers  of  foreign  relations,  na- 
tional defense,  government  and  justice,  and  finance  and  credit;  and 
the  chief  of  the  Joint  Command. 

The  Secretariat  General,  the  NSC's  operational  arm,  coordi- 
nated and  helped  shape  national  security  planning.  Secretariat  per- 
sonnel primarily  consisted  of  active-duty  or  retired  officers.  Analysts 
considered  it  to  be  a  subordinate  arm  of  the  Joint  Command,  whose 
chief  nominated  the  head  of  the  secretariat,  ordinarily  an  army 
general.  The  secretariat  direcdy  supervised  the  National  Directorate 
of  Mobilization,  the  National  Directorate  of  Civil  Defense,  the  In- 
stitute of  Higher  National  Studies,  and  the  National  Directorate 
of  Intelligence.  Although  the  latter  body  was  designed  to  coordinate 
all  intelligence  activities,  its  head  had  a  lower  rank  than  the  chief 
of  army  intelligence. 

The  Joint  Command,  consisting  of  its  chief  and  chief  of  staff 
of  the  Joint  Command  as  well  as  the  commanders  of  the  three  ser- 
vice branches,  also  directly  advised  the  president.  The  Joint  Com- 
mand had  its  own  staff  organized  into  functional  departments.  Each 
of  the  three  services  had  staffs  organized  along  similar  lines  (see 
fig.  17).  The  minister  of  national  defense  was  normally  a  senior 
active-duty  or  retired  officer.  His  influence  on  national  defense  pol- 
icy generally  depended  on  his  rank  relative  to  the  chief  of  the  Joint 
Command  and  his  personal  relationship  to  the  president. 

All  retired  career  personnel  and  all  conscripts  had  reserve  sta- 
tus until  the  age  of  fifty.  The  armed  forces  maintained  a  skeleton 
reserve  organization  at  the  national  level,  directly  under  the  Minis- 
try of  National  Defense,  as  well  as  cadre  organizations  staffed  by 


215 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


|  Operations 
Command 

j  Air  Zone] 

Fighter  and 
-ighter  Grounc 
ttack  Squadro 

< 

»  c  S .2  8.2-2 

E  <DQ-.EO-JLU.E 

<Q 


w  g  o 


CO 


I 

e 

-3 

& 

o 


fx 


216 


National  Security 


retired  officers  and  NCOs  in  various  areas  of  the  country.  Train- 
ing exercises  were  not  generally  held,  but  former  conscripts  assigned 
to  reserve  units  could  expect  to  be  called  up  for  annual  weekend 
musters. 

Army 

Organization  and  Equipment 

The  army  was  the  dominant  service;  its  personnel  strength  of 
approximately  40,000  in  1989  was  nearly  four  times  the  combined 
strength  of  the  navy  and  air  force,  and  its  commander  normally 
held  the  rank  of  four- star  general.  The  army  had  four  theaters  of 
operation,  commonly  known  as  defense  zones,  with  headquarters 
in  Quito,  Guayaquil,  Cuenca,  and  Puyo,  respectively  (see  fig.  18). 

The  army's  principal  operational  units  consisted  of  twelve 
brigades,  all  odd-numbered,  running  in  sequence  from  the  first 
to  the  twenty-third.  The  first  ("El  Oro"),  third  ("Portete"),  fifth 
("Guayas"),  seventh  ("Loja"),  and  thirteenth  ("Pichincha") 
brigades  were  infantry  units  with  headquarters  at  Machala,  Cuenca, 
Guayaquil,  Loja,  and  Quito,  respectively.  The  army  deployed  two 
jungle  brigades  in  the  Oriente  (eastern  region):  the  seventeenth 
("Pastaza"),  with  headquarters  at  Mera,  and  the  nineteenth 
("Napo"),  based  at  Puerto  Napo.  The  ninth  Special  Forces  brigade 
("El  Patria") — an  outgrowth  of  a  special  paratroop  detachment 
formed  in  1960  to  combat  leftist  guerrillas  in  the  Oriente — had 
its  headquarters  at  Latacunga.  The  eleventh  armored  brigade 
("Galapagos")  deployed  from  Riobamba.  Three  other  specialized 
brigades,  the  twenty-first  (logistics),  the  twenty-third  (corps  of  en- 
gineers), and  the  fifteenth  (army  aviation),  operated  out  of  Quito. 
Originally  confined  to  transport,  communications,  training,  and  geo- 
graphic survey  duties,  the  fifteenth  brigade  expanded  into  battle- 
field logistic  support  following  the  delivery  in  1981  of  French  Puma, 
Super  Puma,  and  Gazelle  helicopters. 

Combat  brigades  generally  consisted  of  three  battalions.  Although 
not  all  brigades  were  at  full  strength,  key  units  such  as  the  Loja 
brigade  near  the  Peruvian  border  had  full  complements  or  even 
additional  reinforcements.  States  of  readiness  varied  because  per- 
sonnel primarily  consisted  of  one-year  conscripts,  some  of  whom 
received  minimal  training.  Brigade  commanding  officers  generally 
held  brigadier  general  rank,  although  some  were  led  by  senior 
colonels.  The  commanders  of  the  Pichincha,  Guayas,  Portete,  and 
Pastaza  brigades  served  concurrendy  as  commanders  of  their  respec- 
tive theaters  of  operation. 

The  army's  standard  infantry  weapons  consisted  of  the  Belgian 
FN  FAL  7.62mm  rifle  and  the  Israeli  Uzi  9mm  submachine  gun, 


217 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


(Pacific 
Ocean 


Puerto  Napo 


 •  •         International  boundary 

Theater  of  Operations  Boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 

Army,  Navy,  and  Air  Force  Headquarters 
Army  Theater  of  Operations  Headquarters 
Naval  Zone  Headquarters 
Air  Zone  Headquarters 
Army  Brigade  Headquarters 
viz     Naval  Base      ^    Air  Base 


IV 


/ 


GALAPAGOS  ISLANDS 

0     SO    100  KSdmetefs 
0          50         100  Miles 

Q  Pacific 

o  Ocean 

N—-^      q  Puerto" 
Baquerizo 
Moreno 

Figure  18.  Major  Military  Installations  and  Deployments,  1989 


the  latter  employed  for  counterinsurgency  operations.  The  FN 
MAG  7.62mm  was  the  standard  machine  gun,  although  the  army 
still  had  .30-  and  .50-caliber  machine  guns  of  United  States  origin 
and  81mm  mortars  in  its  inventory.  Armored  vehicles  included 
French-origin  light  tanks  and  four-wheeled  reconnaissance  vehi- 
cles, as  well  as  Cascavel  armored  cars  from  Brazil  (see  table  20, 
Appendix).  Most  of  the  army's  approximately  100  armored  per- 
sonnel carriers  were  French  and  Brazilian  wheeled  models,  although 
it  also  had  some  tracked  M-113s  from  the  United  States.  A  large 


218 


National  Security 


order  for  obsolete  medium  tanks  and  armored  personnel  carriers 
from  Argentina  had  to  be  cancelled  in  1988  because  of  the  deepening 
financial  crisis. 

Training  and  Education 

Army  conscripts  received  their  training  in  the  units  to  which  they 
were  assigned.  The  quality  of  basic  training  depended  greatly  on 
the  importance  attached  to  it  by  the  brigade  commander.  In  an 
effort  to  standardize  unit  training,  the  Department  of  Instruction 
was  created  in  army  headquarters  in  1988.  Special  ranger,  under- 
water demolition,  parachute,  and  other  similar  courses  were  given 
at  brigade  level.  Upon  attaining  the  rank  of  corporal,  conscripts 
accepted  for  enlistment  for  further  service  could  apply  to  one  of 
several  NCO  schools.  Each  school  included  a  core  curriculum  ac- 
companied by  training  in  a  military  occupational  specialty  at  such 
facilities  as  the  armor  school  at  Riobamba  or  the  engineers'  school 
at  Esmeraldas.  The  intense  competition  and  the  difficulty  of  the 
courses  produced  a  high  dropout  rate  among  NCO  candidates. 

Cadets  preparing  for  commissioning  as  army  second  lieutenants 
studied  at  the  Eloy  Alfaro  Advanced  Military  School  (Escuela  Su- 
perior Militar  "Eloy  Alfaro")  in  Parcayacu,  approximately  fifteen 
kilometers  north  of  Quito.  Candidates  had  to  complete  the  ninth 
grade  of  school  and  pass  a  battery  of  written  examinations,  inter- 
views, and  psychological  screening.  In  1987  approximately  130 
cadets  graduated  from  the  school's  three-year  course  of  study,  which 
corresponded  to  the  final  three  years  of  high  school.  The  Eloy  Al- 
faro school  offered  separate  curricula  for  cadets  opting  for  combat 
arms  (infantry,  armor,  artillery,  engineers,  and  signals),  service 
branches  (administration,  supply,  transportation),  and  service  sup- 
port branches  (health,  military  justice,  cartography).  Observers  con- 
sidered the  school's  quarters,  sports  facilities,  and  training  areas 
to  be  excellent.  Additional  construction  was  expected  to  allow  en- 
rollment to  climb  from  500  in  1987  to  800  cadets  by  1989. 

Prior  to  promotion,  lieutenants  and  captains  each  attended 
separate  nine-month  courses  at  the  Advanced  Training  Institute 
(Escuela  de  Perfeccionamiento).  Courses  covered  tactical  opera- 
tions, integration  of  the  various  service  arms,  and  branch-oriented 
training.  Total  enrollment  was  about  165. 

The  Army  War  Academy  (Academia  de  Guerra  del  Ejercito), 
located  in  a  southern  suburb  of  Quito,  prepared  majors  for  com- 
mand and  general  staff  posts  or  for  assignments  to  service  elements 
at  brigade  and  higher  echelons.  The  study  material  corresponded 
to  that  of  the  United  States  Army  Command  and  General  Staff 
College  at  Fort  Leavenworth,  Kansas.  The  academy  offered  a 


219 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

two-year  program  for  officers  of  combat  arms  and  a  one-year  pro- 
gram for  service  and  service  support  officers.  Enrollment  in  1987 
was  forty-five  in  the  combat  arms  track  and  seventy  in  the  service 
tracks. 

The  Army  Polytechnic  Institute  (Escuela  Politecnica  del  Ejercito — 
Espe),  located  in  Quito,  combined  the  functions  of  a  technical  train- 
ing school,  a  technical  college,  and  a  postgraduate  scientific  and 
engineering  university.  Espe  included  undergraduate  departments 
of  civil,  mechanical,  and  electronic  engineering  as  well  as  geo- 
graphy. A  graduate -level  program  consisted  of  industrial  and  sys- 
tems engineering.  Although  administered  along  quasi-military  lines, 
Espe  had  a  largely  civilian  faculty  and  student  body.  Military  at- 
tendees ranged  from  soldiers  from  the  enlisted  ranks  through  mid- 
level  officers.  Several  Espe  dependent  institutes  offered  nondegree 
courses  in  basic  sciences,  languages,  computer  programming  and 
systems  analysis,  and  industrial  administration.  One  Espe  branch 
at  Latacunga,  the  Advanced  Technical  Institute  of  the  Armed 
Forces,  offered  practical  training  in  automotive  mechanics,  elec- 
tronics, telecommunications,  and  automatic  data  processing. 

The  Institute  of  Higher  National  Studies  at  Quito  offered  a  one- 
year  course  for  ranking  military  officers  of  all  three  services  and 
for  civilian  officials.  Comparable  to  the  National  Defense  Univer- 
sity in  Washington,  the  institute  offered  a  curriculum  focused  on 
the  planning  and  execution  of  policies  at  the  highest  levels  of  govern- 
ment. The  NSC  supervised  the  operation  of  the  institute. 

Each  of  the  services  operated  a  number  of  schools  for  children 
in  the  first  through  the  ninth  grades.  Although  originally  intended 
to  help  families  of  military  personnel  avoid  difficulties  arising  from 
divergent  school  calendars  in  the  Costa  (coastal  region)  and  the 
Sierra,  the  schools  also  accepted  children  of  civilians  on  a  tuition 
basis.  Ecuadorians  rated  these  schools  highly;  as  a  result,  compe- 
tition for  admission  was  keen.  Graduates  of  the  armed  forces  schools 
had  an  advantage  in  applying  for  admission  to  one  of  the  service 
academies. 

Navy 

The  origin  of  the  Ecuadorian  navy  can  be  traced  to  the  indepen- 
dence era  when  British  officers  in  the  service  of  Bolivar  assembled 
a  small  squadron  at  Guayaquil.  An  1832  congressional  decree  for- 
mally established  the  navy. 

Organization  and  Equipment 

As  of  1988,  the  navy  had  a  personnel  complement  of  approxi- 
mately 5,000,  including  1,000  marines.  Its  varied  missions  included 


220 


J) 


One  of  the  Ecuadorian 
navy's  German-made  fast  attack  craft 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

preparing  and  maintaining  the  fleet  during  peacetime  for  naval 
operations  in  wartime;  controlling  ocean  and  river  communica- 
tions; protecting  territorial  waters,  the  coastline,  and  rivers;  par- 
ticipating in  operations  in  conjunction  with  other  branches  of  the 
armed  forces;  regulating  the  merchant  marine;  promoting  the  de- 
velopment of  the  naval  construction  industry;  overseeing  the  in- 
stallation and  maintenance  of  aids  to  navigation;  and  preparing 
hydrographic  charts. 

The  country  was  divided  into  three  naval  zones.  The  first,  head- 
quartered at  Guayaquil,  had  jurisdiction  over  the  southern 
provinces  and  the  territorial  waters  adjacent  to  the  coastal  prov- 
inces of  Manabf,  Guayas,  and  El  Oro.  The  second  had  authority 
over  the  Galapagos  archipelago  and  surrounding  territorial  seas 
and  operated  from  Puerto  Baquerizo  Moreno  on  San  Cristobal 
Island.  The  third,  with  headquarters  at  Quito,  had  jurisdiction  over 
the  northern  provinces  and  the  territorial  seas  adjacent  to  the  coastal 
province  of  Esmeraldas.  The  navy  also  had  bases  at  Guayaquil, 
San  Lorenzo,  Salinas,  and  Jaramijo. 

Operationally,  the  navy  was  organized  into  a  destroyer  division, 
a  squadron  of  fast-missile  craft,  a  squadron  of  corvettes,  a  submarine 
squadron,  and  auxiliary  vessels  and  transports.  A  naval  aviation 


221 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

unit,  equipped  mainly  with  light  reconnaissance  and  liaison  air- 
craft, supported  the  fleet  by  patrolling  territorial  seas  and  coast- 
lines, combating  smuggling,  and  performing  logistical  tasks.  A  small 
coast  guard,  formed  in  1980,  controlled  maritime  traffic,  interdicted 
drug  and  contraband  traffic,  and  enforced  Ecuadorian  maritime 
law.  Equipped  with  twenty  coastal  patrol  craft,  most  of  which  were 
twelve  to  fifteen  meters  in  length,  the  coast  guard  had  a  personnel 
strength  of  200  as  of  1988. 

The  marines  conducted  amphibious  operations,  maintained  secu- 
rity of  naval  bases  and  detachments,  and  protected  the  Trans- 
Ecuadorian  Pipeline  terminal  and  shipping  point  at  Esmeraldas 
(see  fig.  11).  Directly  subordinate  to  the  naval  operations  staff,  the 
marines  had  their  headquarters  at  Guayaquil  and  were  organized 
into  three  battalions,  consisting  of  a  commando  group,  a  security 
force,  and  a  support  group,  based  at  Guayaquil,  in  the  Galapagos, 
and  in  the  Oriente.  In  addition  to  small  arms,  the  marines  were 
armed  with  81mm  mortars  and  106mm  recoilless  rifles. 

At  the  time  of  the  navy's  formal  establishment,  naval  equipment 
consisted  of  one  frigate  and  seven  gunboats.  During  the  turbulent 
years  that  followed,  however,  the  fortunes  of  the  navy  often  suffered, 
and  equipment  was  reduced  to  a  single  vessel  in  1880.  Four  years 
later,  the  armed  forces  took  the  first  step  in  the  creation  of  a  modern 
navy  with  the  launching  of  the  Cotopaxi,  a  300- ton  gunboat.  Well 
into  the  twentieth  century,  the  navy's  only  seagoing  units  remained 
the  Cotopaxi  and  the  750-ton  torpedo  gunboat,  Libertador  Bolivar. 

Ecuador  acquired  a  number  of  armed  yachts  and  miscellaneous 
craft  from  the  United  States  in  return  for  having  granted  the  lat- 
ter base  rights  in  the  Galapagos  Islands  and  at  Salinas  during  World 
War  II.  In  1955  Ecuador  purchased  two  older  Hunt-class  destroy- 
ers from  Britain;  these  became  the  most  formidable  vessels  in  the 
Ecuadorian  fleet.  A  significant  expansion  took  place  during  the 
1970s  with  the  purchase  of  missile  attack  craft  and  two  small  sub- 
marines from  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany). 
In  the  early  1980s,  Ecuador  acquired  corvettes  equipped  with  Exocet 
missiles  from  Italy.  The  Hunt-class  destroyers  were  retired  and  were 
replaced  in  1980  by  a  United  States-manufactured  Gearing-class 
destroyer,  renamed  the  Presidente  Eloy  Alfaro.  This  destroyer  re- 
mained the  principal  surface  vessel  as  of  1989  (see  table  21,  Ap- 
pendix). 

Training  and  Education 

Training  of  enlisted  naval  personnel  took  place  primarily  at  the 
Center  of  Naval  Instruction  at  the  Salinas  Naval  Training  Base. 
In  addition  to  basic  training,  the  center  provided  a  variety  of  basic 


222 


National  Security 


and  advanced  specialized  courses,  such  as  electronics,  radio  oper- 
ation, gunnery,  and  administration. 

Naval  cadets  attended  the  Advanced  Naval  Academy  (Escuela 
Superior  Naval)  at  Salinas  in  a  four-year  program  that  stressed 
the  humanities,  scientific  subjects,  naval  science,  and  physical  train- 
ing. Cadets  also  completed  practice  cruises  on  board  a  three-masted 
sailing  vessel. 

Located  in  Guayaquil,  the  Naval  War  College  was  the  service's 
senior  instructional  institution  and  prepared  officers,  generally  at 
the  level  of  commander,  for  higher  ranks  and  general  staff  duty. 
The  two-year  course  of  study  covered  such  topics  as  strategy  and 
tactics,  logistics,  geopolitics,  operational  planning,  intelligence,  and 
international  maritime  law,  together  with  sociology,  economics, 
and  other  nonmilitary  subjects. 

The  marines  operated  their  own  instructional  program,  includ- 
ing a  basic  school  for  recruits  and  more  advanced  courses  in  am- 
phibious operations,  communications,  intelligence,  and  weaponry, 
plus  special  courses  in  frogman  and  paratroop  skills.  The  navy  also 
administered  the  Merchant  Marine  School,  whose  cadets  received 
some  military  training  and  formed  part  of  the  naval  reserve  after 
graduation  as  merchant  marine  officers. 

Air  Force 

The  origins  of  the  air  force  (Fuerza  Aerea  Ecuatoriana — FAE) 
date  to  the  early  1920s  when,  under  the  guidance  of  an  Italian  mili- 
tary mission,  Ecuador  acquired  several  planes  and  established  a 
flying  school  near  Guayaquil.  During  the  1930s,  the  air  force,  still 
subordinate  to  the  army,  came  under  growing  United  States  in- 
fluence as  it  purchased  a  number  of  Curtis  Wright  training  planes 
and  employed  United  States  advisers.  By  the  time  of  the  brief  war 
with  Peru  in  1941,  the  air  force  had  forty-eight  pilots  but,  lacking 
modern  combat  aircraft,  did  not  present  a  serious  threat  to  the 
Peruvians. 

During  World  War  II,  the  United  States  transferred  a  number 
of  training  aircraft  to  Ecuador,  provided  advanced  training  to  Ec- 
uadorian pilots,  and  operated  the  air  base  at  Salinas.  The  first  com- 
bat squadron  was  formed  with  seven  obsolescent  Seversky  P-35 
fighters.  After  becoming  independent  from  the  army  in  1944,  the 
FAE  received  additional  planes  under  the  United  States  Military 
Assistance  Program,  including  twenty  F-47  Thunderbolts  to  replace 
the  P-35s,  Catalina  maritime  patrol  aircraft,  and  a  number  of  C-47 
transports.  During  the  1950s,  the  air  force  purchased  its  first  jet 
fighters,  Gloster  Meteors,  from  Britain,  along  with  Canberra  B-6 
jet-engined  bombers.  The  FAE  deactivated  the  bomber  squadron 


223 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

in  1981;  although  it  retained  the  three  surviving  Canberras  in 
reserve  status,  they  were  no  longer  livable  by  1987.  Sixteen  F-80s 
supplied  by  the  United  States  in  1958-60  permitted  creation  of  a 
second  jet  fighter  squadron. 

During  the  1970s,  new  oil  revenues  enabled  the  FAE  to  modern- 
ize its  combat  fleet  by  purchasing  British  Jaguars  to  replace  the 
Meteors  and  F-80s  in  the  ground  attack  role,  as  well  as  Cessna 
A-37Bs  suitable  for  training  and  counterinsurgency  operations.  After 
the  United  States  licensed  the  export  of  General  Electric  engines, 
Ecuador  purchased  twelve  Israeli  Kfir  fighters  in  the  early  1980s. 
The  FAE  also  placed  an  order  for  sixteen  French-manufactured 
Mirage  F-ls,  plus  two  Mirage  trainers,  deliveries  of  which  began 
in  early  1979.  All  combat  aircraft  were  equipped  with  French-  or 
Israeli-origin  air-to-air  missiles.  Total  personnel  strength  was  be- 
lieved to  be  somewhat  less  than  5,000  in  1988. 

As  of  1989,  Jaguars,  Kfirs,  and  Mirages  provided  the  FAE's  three 
fighter  squadrons  with  a  small  but  modern  and  effective  combat 
air  arm.  The  FAE  had  also  received  a  number  of  Lockheed  At- 3 3 
Shooting  Stars  from  United  States  stocks,  refurbished  for  light  at- 
tack and  advanced  training  roles  (see  table  21,  Appendix).  The 
jet  pilots  were  a  highly  select  group,  well- trained  and  competent. 
The  quality  of  other  FAE  personnel  varied,  and  the  mixture  of 
equipment  sources  presented  a  maintenance  and  training  problem. 
The  FAE  as  a  whole  had  only  a  marginally  satisfactory  safety  record. 

The  FAE  divided  Ecuador  into  two  air  zones,  the  first  covering 
the  coastal  areas  from  its  headquarters  at  Taura  near  Guayaquil 
and  the  second  covering  the  remainder  of  the  country  from  Marshal 
Sucre  International  Airport  at  Quito.  These  two  facilities  also 
functioned  as  the  FAE's  principal  air  bases.  The  first-line  combat 
squadrons  operated  from  Taura,  although  they  were  regularly 
deployed  to  other  air  bases  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  The 
Mera  airfield — developed  by  the  Texaco-Gulf  oil  consortium — 
was  the  only  one  in  the  Oriente  long  enough  to  accept  jet  aircraft. 
The  air  force  paratroop  squadron,  a  combat  commando  unit,  was 
disbanded  after  its  involvement  in  the  kidnaping  of  the  president 
in  1987.  It  was  replaced  by  a  special  police  unit,  wearing  a  dis- 
tinctive uniform,  with  responsibility  for  air  base  security. 

The  Military  Air  Transport  Command  incorporated  the  civil 
airline  operated  by  the  military,  Ecuadorian  Military  Air  Trans- 
port (Transportes  Aereos  Militares  Ecuatorianos — TAME),  as  well 
as  the  international  civil  airline,  Ecuatoriana.  TAME  had  both  mili- 
tary and  civilian  crews,  including  many  retired  FAE  pilots.  The 
passenger  and  cargo  fleet  with  dual  civil-military  markings  con- 
sisted mainly  of  Boeing  707s,  720s,  and  727s. 


224 


National  Security 


Israeli  teams  under  contract  carried  out  major  overhaul  for  many 
aircraft,  including  commercial  planes  flown  by  TAME.  FAE  tech- 
nicians working  under  Israeli  supervision  maintained  and  carried 
out  some  overhaul  of  Kfirs,  T-34s,  and  A-37s  at  Cotopaxi  Air  Base 
at  Latacunga.  In  addition  to  serving  as  Ecuador's  principal  main- 
tenance and  training  center,  Cotopaxi  had  the  country's  longest 
landing  strip. 

The  Air  Force  Academy,  located  at  Salinas,  provided  a  three- 
year  course  for  aspiring  FAE  officers.  Cadets  received  basic  flying 
instruction  mainly  on  T-34s.  After  commissioning,  those  officers 
selected  for  jet  training  attended  the  Military  Aviation  School  and 
received  instruction  on  the  At-33,  the  A-37,  and  the  Strikemaster. 
Future  helicopter  pilots  trained  at  Manta.  A  specialists'  school  in 
Guayaquil  offered  nonflight  instruction  for  technicians  and  en- 
gineers. The  eighteen-month  program  consisted  of  six  months  of 
basic  military  instruction  followed  by  training  courses  in  main- 
tenance of  jet  and  reciprocating  engines,  air  frames,  hydraulics, 
electronics,  radar,  and  aerial  photography.  The  Air  War  College 
at  Quito  offered  a  general  staff  course  of  two  academic  years'  du- 
ration, qualifying  field- grade  officers  for  promotion  to  senior  ranks 
and  general  staff  assignments. 

Military  Justice 

Military  justice  followed  procedures  prescribed  in  the  armed 
forces'  penal  code.  A  trial  for  a  nonserious  offense  was  held  in  the 
military  unit  of  the  accused,  with  the  case  usually  prosecuted  by 
a  member  of  the  judge  advocate  corps  and  decided  by  the  unit  com- 
mander and  two  officers  of  captain  rank.  The  accused  had  the  right 
to  representation,  to  speak  in  his  or  her  own  defense,  and  to  be 
defended  by  a  qualified  individual.  Trials  for  more  serious  offenses 
were  held  in  the  headquarters  of  the  military  zone  or  the  navy  or 
air  force  district  in  courts  known  as  military  discipline  councils. 
A  member  of  the  military  accused  of  serious  crimes  was  subject 
to  court-martial.  All  members  of  such  a  court  were  senior  in  rank 
to  the  accused. 

Military  law  could  be  implemented  in  cases  of  serious  civil  dis- 
order. Such  law  authorized  trials  of  civilians  in  military  courts. 
Civilians  could  also  be  tried  for  infractions  of  military  regulations 
or  acts  against  military  installations.  In  practice,  few  civilian  de- 
tainees were  placed  under  military  control,  and  these  were  gen- 
erally persons  accused  of  terrorism  or  subversion. 

The  procedures  and  penalties  in  military  trials  closely  approxi- 
mated those  of  civil  courts.  The  maximum  penalty  was  sixteen  years 
for  most  serious  crimes,  such  as  murder.  A  person  convicted  of 


225 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  military  offense  of  treason,  however,  could  be  punished  by  life 
imprisonment.  An  individual  guilty  of  insubordination  could  receive 
from  three  months  to  two  years  of  military  confinement.  In  cases 
of  absence  without  leave,  sentences  ranged  from  eight  days  to  two 
years,  depending  in  part  on  the  reasons  for  the  transgression. 

Ranks,  Insignia,  and  Uniforms 

The  rank  structure  of  the  armed  forces  generally  conformed  to 
that  used  in  the  United  States,  except  that  Ecuador  did  not  em- 
ploy all  of  the  ranks  found  in  the  United  States  military.  The  army 
and  air  force  had  nine  officer  ranks  ranging  from  second  lieutenant 
to  general.  The  navy  had  eight  officer  ranks  from  ensign  to  vice 
admiral  (see  fig.  19).  Army  enlisted  personnel  had  seven  grades 
ranging  in  level  from  private  to  sergeant  major,  air  force  enlistees 
had  seven  grades  ranging  from  airman  to  chief  master  sergeant, 
and  naval  enlistees  had  eight  grades  from  the  equivalent  of  sea- 
man to  master  chief  petty  officer  (see  fig.  20). 

Rank  insignia  for  officers  of  the  army  and  air  force  were  a  ser- 
ies of  five-pointed  stars  on  shoulder  boards.  Insignia  for  general, 
lieutenant  general,  and  major  general  consisted  of  four,  three,  and 
two  gold  stars,  respectively,  with  gold-braided  borders  and  the  na- 
tional crest.  Field- grade  officers  wore  gold  stars,  and  company- grade 
officers  wore  silver  stars  on  shoulder  boards.  Naval  officers  wore 
gold  stripes  indicating  rank  on  the  lower  sleeve  of  the  blouse.  Army 
and  air  force  enlisted  personnel  wore  red  and  yellow  stripes,  respec- 
tively, and  the  navy  red  or  yellow  stripes,  as  appropriate,  on  shoul- 
der boards  or  upper  sleeve  of  the  uniform. 

The  three  services  had  dress,  semi-dress,  service,  and  field  uni- 
forms for  officers  and  dress,  service,  and  field  uniforms  for  enlisted 
personnel.  The  army  winter  service  uniform  consisted  of  a  gray 
blouse  and  trousers,  white  shirt,  and  black  tie.  Air  force  winter 
service  uniforms  were  light  blue,  whereas  those  for  the  navy  were 
navy  blue  and  white.  The  armed  forces  also  had  summer  uniforms. 

Recruitment  and  Conditions  of  Service 

According  to  the  Constitution,  all  Ecuadorians  are  subject  to  a 
military  service  obligation.  In  practice,  conscription  applied  only 
to  males,  who  were  liable  for  call-up  at  age  nineteen  for  one  year 
of  service.  Only  a  small  number  of  women  had  been  recruited  as 
specialists  in  the  enlisted  grades;  some  received  commissions  in  a 
few  categories,  such  as  medicine  and  dentistry.  As  of  1988,  there 
were  approximately  1,834,000  males  in  the  eighteen  to  forty-nine 
age  bracket,  about  80,000  of  whom  reached  the  age  of  eligibility 
each  year.  Analysts  considered  this  figure  ample  for  service  needs 


226 


National  Security 


even  though  approximately  50  percent  could  not  meet  minimum 
physical  or  educational  standards. 

There  was  little  active  opposition  to  the  conscription  system. 
Those  undergoing  military  service  enjoyed  a  measure  of  respect. 
In  a  country  with  chronic  underemployment,  many  poorer  youths 
improved  their  educational,  housing,  health-care,  and  dietary  sit- 
uations by  joining  the  armed  forces.  Ambitious  young  men  with 
few  opportunities  in  the  civilian  labor  market  might  be  successful 
candidates  for  further  service  and  training,  thereby  learning  valu- 
able skills  and  finding  an  avenue  for  upward  mobility.  Selective 
service  boards  in  provincial  capitals  chose  conscripts  and  liberally 
granted  exemptions  for  family  reasons,  such  as  being  the  only  son 
or  the  breadwinner.  Students  in  good  academic  standing  received 
deferments. 

Since  the  1960s,  the  army  had  assigned  many  conscripts  with 
peasant  backgrounds  to  the  Army  Agrarian  Military  Conscription 
(Conscripcion  Agraria  Militar  del  Ejercito — CAME).  The  CAME 
program  sought  to  enable  youths  from  rural  areas — often  with  a 
minimum  education — to  meet  their  service  obligation  by  working 
in  army-operated  dairy,  livestock-raising,  vegetable-  or  fruit-farming, 
and  shrimp  enterprises.  The  conscripts  received  a  limited  amount 
of  military  training  and  were  exposed  to  modern  farming  practices 
that  might  benefit  them  when  they  returned  to  civilian  life.  The  mili- 
tary used  CAME  products  directly  or  sold  them  commercially. 

Virtually  all  officers  graduated  from  one  of  the  three  military 
academies.  In  an  analysis  of  the  social  origins  of  the  officer  corps 
based  on  cadets  entering  the  military  academies  between  1960  and 
1966,  political  scientist  John  Samuel  Fitch  determined  that  more 
than  60  percent  came  from  the  middle  segment  of  the  middle  classes 
(see  Middle  Class,  ch.  2).  Fitch  assumed  each  cadet's  class  back- 
ground from  his  father's  occupation;  this  group  had  fathers  who 
were  mainly  civil  servants,  military  officers,  teachers,  and  mer- 
chants. Those  of  working-class  or  lower  middle-class  origins,  whose 
fathers  were  artisans,  military  NCOs,  or  workers,  constituted  ap- 
proximately 20  percent.  Approximately  17  percent  had  fathers  who 
were  members  of  the  property-owning  upper  class  or  professionals 
from  the  upper  middle  class.  Fitch's  research  confirmed  a  definite 
trend  toward  democratization  of  the  officer  corps.  In  1928  and  1929, 
for  example,  more  than  44  percent  of  entering  cadets  came  from 
the  upper  and  upper  middle  classes,  whereas  some  55  percent  were 
from  the  middle  class  and  none  from  the  lower  classes.  The  num- 
ber of  sons  of  military  officers  remained  constant  at  about  20  per- 
cent of  the  entering  cadets,  although  a  growing  number  of  sons 
of  NCOs  had  qualified  for  the  service  academies  since  1956. 


227 


228 


National  Security 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Fitch's  study  found  a  striking  pattern  of  recruitment  to  the  officer 
corps  from  the  interior  highlands,  which  had  persisted  in  spite  of 
the  shift  of  population  toward  the  coastal  provinces  (see  Migra- 
tion and  Urbanization,  ch.  2).  In  1963,  when  the  total  population 
of  the  Sierra  and  Oriente  barely  exceeded  that  of  the  Costa,  merely 
7  percent  of  the  entering  classes  came  from  the  Costa.  Guayas 
Province,  with  over  20  percent  of  the  nation's  population,  supplied 
less  than  1  percent  of  the  new  cadets. 

Strict  regulations  determined  promotion  of  officers,  taking  into 
account  such  factors  as  seniority;  attendance  and  performance  at 
service  schools,  both  in  Ecuador  and  abroad;  assignments  held; 
and  demonstrated  administrative  effectiveness.  At  the  highest  levels, 
boards  of  admirals  and  generals  of  the  three  services  screened  officers 
for  promotion,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  president,  the  minister 
of  national  defense,  and  the  chief  of  the  Joint  Command.  The  presi- 
dent appointed  the  commanding  officer  of  each  service.  During 
the  1980s,  attempts  by  President  Febres  Cordero  to  circumvent 
the  established  procedure  for  promotion  caused  serious  tensions 
in  his  relations  with  the  military. 

Observers  considered  basic  salaries  for  officers  adequate  by  com- 
parison with  civilian  government  employees.  In  1988  a  major  gen- 
eral received  a  base  salary  of  about  US$600  a  month.  Benefits  and 
allowances  added  at  least  50  percent  to  this  salary.  In  addition  to 
the  excellent  medical  care  and  post  exchange  and  commissary 
privileges  available  to  all  military  personnel,  a  general  officer  had 
the  use  of  a  car  and  driver,  gasoline,  a  cook,  and  other  allowances. 
Per  diem  allowances  for  travel  abroad  were  extremely  generous.  A 
high-ranking  officer  attending  frequent  meetings  or  courses  in  other 
countries  could  supplement  his  salary  with  savings  from  this  source. 

Corruption  within  the  military  reportedly  was  fairly  widespread. 
In  the  case  of  senior  officers,  this  often  took  the  form  of  "commis- 
sions" on  arms  purchases.  Lower-ranking  officers  had  fewer  op- 
portunities to  benefit  by  improper  means  but  might  be  guilty  of 
such  minor  abuses  as  the  unauthorized  use  of  official  equipment 
for  personal  purposes. 

Most  officers  were  subject  to  retirement  after  twenty  years  of 
service  unless  they  reached  the  rank  of  general.  Time  spent  in  at- 
tendance at  a  military  academy  was  included  in  calculating  retire- 
ment benefits.  In  addition  to  receiving  a  relatively  high  percentage 
of  their  base  pay,  retired  career  personnel  also  received  severance 
pay  that  was  often  used  to  begin  business  careers. 

Defense  Budget 

A  series  of  unfavorable  economic  developments  in  the  second 
half  of  the  1980s,  beginning  with  the  decline  in  oil  revenues  in  1986 


230 


National  Security 


and  a  devastating  earthquake  in  March  1987,  curtailed  national 
government  outlays,  including  spending  on  the  armed  forces.  The 
precipitous  drop  in  the  value  of  Ecuadorian  currency  meant  an  es- 
calation of  the  cost  of  imported  weapons,  on  which  the  armed  forces 
almost  entirely  depended.  In  September  1988,  the  new  administra- 
tion of  Rodrigo  Borja  Cevallos  (1988-  )  cancelled  a  US$106-million 
contract  with  Argentina  for  the  purchase  of  armored  vehicles  and 
other  equipment.  Even  prior  to  this,  other  planned  procurements, 
such  as  the  purchase  of  planes  for  an  additional  fighter  squadron, 
had  to  be  postponed. 

In  1987,  the  most  recent  year  for  which  such  data  were  availa- 
ble in  late  1989,  the  Ecuadorian  government  reported  that  defense 
expenditures  totalled  32.0  billion  sucres — equivalent  to  US$188  mil- 
lion at  the  prevailing  rate  of  exchange  (for  the  value  of  the  sucre — see 
Glossary).  The  defense  budget  for  1987  did  not  reflect  the  cut  that 
followed  the  earthquake.  The  corresponding  figure  for  defense  in 

1986  was  20.4  billion  sucres,  equivalent  to  US$166.2  million. 
Although  defense  expenditures  apparently  declined  after  the  end 

of  military  rule  in  1979,  it  was  difficult  to  draw  conclusions  about 
trends  in  defense  spending  owing  to  a  number  of  factors,  includ- 
ing variations  in  the  dollar-sucre  exchange  rate.  Analysts  believed 
that  the  true  cost  of  defense  exceeded  the  officially  budgeted  figures 
by  a  considerable  amount  because  of  unreported  nonbudgetary 
spending.  The  armed  forces  covered  these  costs,  which  observers 
believed  to  have  been  as  high  as  the  official  defense  expenditures 
in  some  years,  through  profits  from  business  enterprises  owned  by 
the  military  and  receipts  from  the  sale  of  petroleum  abroad.  A  por- 
tion of  revenues  from  petroleum  production  above  a  stipulated  level 
was  allocated  to  a  special  military  account,  but  the  amount  involved 
and  the  formula  by  which  it  was  calculated  remained  confidential. 
Low  oil  production  levels  and  depressed  prices  in  the  late  1980s 
necessitated  a  sharp  curtailment  of  imports  of  military  equipment. 

The  United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency 
(ACDA)  estimated  Ecuador's  military  expenditures  at  US$250  mil- 
lion in  1987.  ACDA  noted,  however,  that  this  estimate  omitted 
most  arms  acquisitions.  According  to  ACDA,  annual  defense  spend- 
ing had  risen  over  a  ten-year  period  from  US$150  million  in  1978. 
If  defense  expenditures  for  1978  were  converted  to  1987  dollars, 
however,  they  would  come  to  US$245  million — nearly  equal  to  the 

1987  expenditures  in  purchasing  power.  The  lowest  levels  of  defense 
spending  during  the  decade  were  in  1983  and  1984,  when  military 
outlays  fell  below  US$160  million,  calculated  in  1987  dollars. 

According  to  ACDA's  analysis,  based  on  1987  data,  Ecuador's 
annual  defense  expenditures  of  US$25  per  capita  were  lower  than 


231 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

the  average  for  Latin  America  as  a  whole  (US$36  per  capita), 
although  well  above  comparable  figures  for  Brazil  and  Colombia. 
The  defense  budget  of  its  larger  neighbor  and  rival,  Peru,  was  four 
times  as  great  per  capita.  The  number  of  persons  in  military  ser- 
vice per  1,000  population  (4.4  in  1987)  almost  mirrored  the  aver- 
age for  Latin  America  as  a  whole,  although  it  was  higher  than  the 
figure  for  Brazil  or  Colombia  and  lower  than  that  for  Peru.  Mili- 
tary expenditures  constituted  15.3  percent  of  central  government 
expenditures  in  1987  and  2.6  percent  of  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary).  These  ratios  compared  to  10.4  percent  of 
central  government  expenditures  and  2.0  percent  of  GNP  for  Latin 
American  countries  as  a  whole,  but  were  again  well  beneath  the 
corresponding  figures  for  Peru. 

Civil  Defense 

Article  82  of  National  Security  Act  Number  275  of  1979  estab- 
lished a  civil  defense  structure  composed  of  the  National  Direc- 
torate of  Civil  Defense,  provincial  boards  (juntas),  and  various  local 
bodies.  A  military  officer  of  colonel  or  higher  rank  held  the  posi- 
tion of  civil  defense  national  director.  Chaired  by  governors,  the 
provincial  boards  included  representatives  of  the  military,  the  Na- 
tional Police,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  and  provincial  officers 
of  various  ministries. 

The  National  Directorate  of  Civil  Defense  was  subordinate  to 
the  NSC.  Essentially  a  planning  organization,  the  directorate  pre- 
pared guidelines  and  coordinated  preparations  for  possible  disasters 
and  subsequent  relief  operations  to  be  carried  out  by  other  national, 
provincial,  municipal,  and  private  agencies. 

Participants  in  actual  disaster  relief  operations  included  the  armed 
forces;  the  Ecuadorian  Social  Security  Institute;  the  ministries  of 
Public  Health,  Social  Welfare,  and  Public  Works  and  Communi- 
cations; the  National  Police;  local  fire  departments;  the  Red  Cross; 
and  Catholic  relief  agencies.  In  the  event  of  an  emergency,  the  Na- 
tional Directorate  of  Civil  Defense  normally  assigned  a  local  agency 
to  take  the  lead  in  resource  mobilization. 

The  massive  floods  in  1982  and  1983  and  the  earthquake  of  1987 
severely  tested  the  capabilities  of  the  civil  defense  organizations.  Dur- 
ing these  crises,  compliance  with  leadership  from  the  national  level 
tended  to  be  haphazard,  with  political  considerations  often  receiv- 
ing priority  in  the  allocation  of  efforts.  Relief  projects  were  delayed 
because  the  national  directorate  lacked  the  power  to  resolve  ques- 
tions of  jurisdiction  among  other  agencies.  The  armed  forces  repeat- 
edly demonstrated  their  effectiveness  in  responding  to  emergencies, 


232 


National  Security 


but  in  many  instances  they  did  not  coordinate  their  efforts  with 
other  civil  defense  authorities. 

During  the  1982-83  flood  disaster,  the  national  directorate  formed 
an  emergency  operations  center  in  Guayaquil  to  supervise  the  logis- 
tics of  relief  assistance.  It  subsequently  established  a  flood  commis- 
sion to  coordinate  the  efforts  of  nongovernment  organizations,  and 
a  high-level  committee  to  assess  infrastructure  damage  and  recon- 
struction needs.  Following  the  1987  earthquake,  the  government  set 
up  the  National  Emergency  Relief  Center  in  Quito  to  coordinate 
the  dispensing  of  assistance  from  public  and  private  sources,  including 
foreign  governments,  international  charities,  and  personal  donations 
of  money,  goods,  and  services.  The  FAE,  assisted  by  the  air  forces 
of  Italy,  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Venezuela,  established  an  ''air 
bridge"  of  supplies  from  Quito  to  the  Oriente. 

Civic  Action 

The  armed  forces  actively  engaged  in  various  civic-action  pro- 
grams. Army  engineer  battalions  played  a  leading  part  in  road  con- 
struction between  the  remote  areas  of  the  Oriente  and  the  more 
populated  regions  of  the  country  (see  Transportation,  ch.  3).  They 
repaired  and  restored  roads  and  bridges  damaged  during  natural 
calamities  and  built  various  public  buildings  such  as  schools.  Army 
medical  teams  periodically  conducted  examinations  and  provided 
medicines,  inoculations,  and  dental  services  in  remote  settlements 
lacking  civilian  medical  facilities.  The  military  also  engaged  in 
health,  education,  and  construction  projects  in  the  slums  and 
shantytowns  of  the  cities. 

The  army  trained  officers  and  selected  enlisted  men  to  provide 
literacy  training  to  conscripts  and  to  civilians  living  in  areas  where 
the  military  were  assigned.  In  January  1989,  the  government  re- 
ported that  the  armed  forces  and  the  National  Police  would  pro- 
vide security,  transportation,  lodging,  and  food  to  teachers  sent 
to  conduct  a  new  literacy  campaign  in  remote  areas  (see  Educa- 
tion, ch.  2). 

Foreign  Influence 

Although  French  officers  comprised  the  first  foreign  military  mis- 
sion to  Ecuador  in  the  1890s,  the  Ecuadorian  armed  forces  relied 
primarily  on  Chilean  and  Italian  assistance  throughout  the  early 
years  of  the  twentieth  century.  In  1903  the  German-trained  Chilean 
armed  forces  furnished  a  military  mission  and  opened  Chile's  mili- 
tary academy  to  Ecuadorian  cadets.  The  Chilean  navy  also  provided 
sea  training  to  Ecuadorian  midshipmen,  and  Chilean  officers  staffed 
the  Army  War  Academy  until  1962.  In  1922  an  Italian  military 


233 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

mission  organized  a  system  of  army  training  schools  in  aviation, 
cavalry,  infantry,  and  engineering.  Beginning  in  1935,  United 
States  specialists  operating  under  private  contracts  gradually 
replaced  Italian  flight  instructors.  Italy  withdrew  its  entire  mili- 
tary mission  in  1940  when  it  entered  World  War  II. 

Military  Relations  with  the  United  States 

Ecuador  declared  war  on  Japan  immediately  after  the  latter 's 
attack  on  United  States  forces  at  Pearl  Harbor.  Ecuador  granted 
the  United  States  base  rights  in  the  Galapagos  Islands,  primarily 
for  the  defense  of  the  Panama  Canal  against  possible  Japanese  at- 
tack; and  United  States  influence  on  Ecuadorian  military  policy 
subsequently  became  significant.  The  United  States  constructed 
an  air  base  on  one  of  the  Galapagos  Islands,  manned  it  until  the 
end  of  World  War  II,  and  then  turned  it  over  to  Ecuador.  The 
FAE  later  took  over  the  Salinas  base,  which  the  United  States  had 
also  manned  during  the  war.  Agreements  signed  in  1940  and  1944 
also  provided  for  the  transfer  of  military  equipment.  In  1952  an 
agreement  between  the  two  governments  resulted  in  the  establish- 
ment of  a  United  States  Military  Group  that  incorporated  the  al- 
ready existing  army,  navy,  and  air  force  missions  and  led  to  the 
delivery  of  significant  amounts  of  United  States  military  materiel. 
The  United  States  withdrew  the  military  group  in  1971  as  a  con- 
sequence of  a  dispute  over  fishing  rights  but  subsequently  reestab- 
lished it. 

Between  1950  and  1988,  almost  8,000  Ecuadorian  officers  and 
NCOs  received  training  sponsored  by  the  United  States.  Ecuadorian 
military  personnel  attended  training  programs  in  the  former 
Panama  Canal  Zone  and  in  the  United  States,  including  programs 
offered  by  the  United  States  Naval  Academy. 

Deliveries  of  United  States  military  assistance  to  Ecuador  be- 
tween 1950  and  1988,  including  credit  sales,  totaled  almost  US$123 
million.  United  States  budgetary  cutbacks  limited  military  assistance 
financing  to  only  US$4  million  in  grant  form  in  fiscal  year  (FY — 
see  Glossary)  1989.  Proposed  aid  in  FY  1990  was  limited  to  US$3 
million  in  credit  financing.  The  United  States  tailored  much  of  the 
assistance  in  the  late  1980s  to  the  efforts  to  control  the  northern 
border  and  the  eastern  jungle  areas  frequently  crossed  by  terrorist 
groups  and  narcotics  traffickers.  With  the  exception  of  the  credit 
sale  of  At-33  trainer  aircraft,  assistance  consisted  largely  of  vehi- 
cles, medical  equipment,  communications  items,  small  arms,  and 
support  for  existing  inventories. 

Between  May  and  December  1987,  almost  6,000  United  States 
National  Guardsmen,  reservists,  and  active-duty  personnel  rotated 


234 


Relief  operations  following  the  1987  earthquake 
Courtesy  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development, 
Office  of  United  States  Foreign  Disaster  Assistance  (LeVonne  Harrell) 


235 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

to  Ecuador  at  two-week  intervals  to  assist  in  earthquake  reconstruc- 
tion. The  United  States  initially  regarded  the  project  as  a  field- 
training  exercise  in  road  and  bridge  building.  Although  plans  origi- 
nally called  for  restoration  of  roads  in  the  Costa,  the  earthquake 
resulted  in  a  United  States-Ecuadorian  decision  to  shift  the  project 
to  the  Oriente.  United  States  forces  encountered  severe  weather 
problems  affecting  the  movement  of  heavy  equipment  over  the 
Andes,  carving  a  road  through  tropical  jungle,  and  combating  health 
hazards.  In  addition,  the  presence  of  United  States  troops  became 
a  source  of  political  contention,  as  opposition  forces  in  the  Ecua- 
dorian Congress  passed  a  resolution  demanding  the  troops'  immedi- 
ate departure.  President  Febres  Cordero  rejected  the  resolution  but 
nevertheless  terminated  the  project  earlier  than  planned. 

Equipment  Sources 

Historically,  Ecuador  depended  on  a  wide  variety  of  foreign  sup- 
pliers for  virtually  all  of  its  equipment  needs.  Only  in  the  1980s 
did  it  begin  to  develop  a  modest  domestic  arms  industry  as  the 
Directorate  of  Army  Industries  manufactured  rifle  ammunition, 
uniforms,  boots,  and  other  consumable  items. 

Prior  to  World  War  II,  Italy  supplied  a  substantial  amount  of 
military  materiel  to  Ecuador.  During  and  after  World  War  II,  the 
United  States  became  the  predominant  supplier,  although  by  the 
1950s  Ecuador  had  also  turned  to  World  War  II-vintage  weapons 
from  European  countries,  notably  aircraft  from  Britain.  During 
the  1960s  and  1970s,  France  became  a  leading  supplier  of  tanks 
and  aircraft.  Ecuador  purchased  submarine  and  patrol  boats  from 
West  Germany  and  rifles  and  machine  guns  from  Belgium. 

Ecuador  became  a  substantial  customer  for  Israeli  arms  in  the 
1970s,  purchasing  Arava  aircraft,  Gabriel  missiles  for  arming  naval 
patrol  craft,  Uzi  submachine  guns,  and  other  munitions.  Under 
technical  assistance  contracts,  Israel  serviced  Israeli  planes  in  the 
air  force  inventory  as  well  as  Boeing  civilian  aircraft  flown  by 
TAME  and  Ecuatoriana  Airlines.  Ecuador  reportedly  also  em- 
ployed Israeli  security  specialists  as  consultants  in  the  fight  against 
terrorism. 

In  1976  Ecuador  became  the  first  foreign  country  to  order  the 
Kfir,  an  advanced  jet  fighter  equipped  with  the  General  Electric 
J-79  engine  produced  in  Israel  under  license.  The  transaction, 
which  required  United  States  government  approval  because  of  the 
engine  technology,  was  rejected  by  the  administration  of  President 
Jimmy  Carter  in  order  to  discourage  the  proliferation  of  sophisti- 
cated military  equipment  in  the  Third  World.  The  action  caused 


236 


National  Security 


an  uproar  in  Israel  where  the  sale  was  regarded  as  an  important 
breakthrough  in  Israel's  efforts  to  develop  international  markets 
for  the  Kfir.  In  1981,  after  the  inauguration  of  President  Ronald 
Reagan,  Washington  removed  its  objection  to  the  sale.  Although 
the  contract  called  for  the  purchase  of  twelve  Kfirs  and  an  option 
to  purchase  an  additional  twelve,  Ecuador  acquired  only  the  original 
group,  at  a  price  estimated  at  US$196  million. 

According  to  AC  DA,  Ecuador  was  a  relatively  heavy  importer 
of  arms  in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  averaging  US$150  mil- 
lion annually  and  reaching  a  peak  of  US$280  million  in  1982.  These 
imports  declined  sharply  to  an  average  of  only  US$50  million  an- 
nually between  1985  and  1987,  presumably  as  a  result  of  a  dra- 
matic reduction  in  oil  revenues  and  the  precipitous  drop  in  the  value 
of  the  sucre,  which  made  imported  arms  extremely  expensive.  Be- 
tween 1983  and  1987,  Ecuador  imported  an  estimated  US$460  mil- 
lion of  arms,  primarily  from  Italy,  France,  the  United  States,  and 
Britain.  Ecuador  did  not  receive  military  equipment  from  the  Soviet 
Union  or  other  communist  countries. 

Internal  Security 

In  spite  of  the  volatile  nature  of  Ecuadorian  politics  during  the 
1980s,  the  country  did  not  encounter  major  disruptions  of  internal 
security  and  successfully  contained  localized  episodes  of  public  dis- 
order, such  as  riots  and  demonstrations.  Since  1985,  strikes  and 
demonstrations  to  protest  economic  austerity  measures  and  increases 
in  living  costs  had  been  frequent.  The  Febres  Cordero  adminis- 
tration regularly  declared  such  activities  to  be  illegal  and  broke  up 
street  demonstrations  with  tear  gas  and  arrests.  Although  police 
actions  proved  effective,  critics  often  accused  the  police  of  excesses 
in  dispersing  public  marches  and  rallies.  In  January  1986,  several 
hundred  Quito  students  clashed  with  police  during  a  three-day  pe- 
riod of  demonstrations.  This  outbreak,  in  which  100  students  were 
jailed,  coincided  with  Febres  Cordero's  visit  to  the  United  States 
and  was  in  part  a  protest  against  United  States  policies  toward 
Ecuador. 

As  of  late  1989,  no  subversive  or  terrorist  group  posed  a  seri- 
ous threat  to  domestic  order.  A  small  leftist  group,  Alfaro  Lives, 
Damnit!  (jAlfaro  Vive,  Carajo! — AVC),  periodically  carried  out 
acts  of  terrorism  and  insurgency.  Even  though  the  AVC  had  a  low 
potential  for  subversive  action  and  numbered  only  200  to  300  ac- 
tivists, Ecuador  was  determined  to  avoid  a  situation  like  that  in 
the  neighboring  nations  of  Peru  and  Colombia,  where  large,  well- 
organized,  and  violent  guerrilla  organizations  presented  a  grave 
challenge  to  the  authority  of  the  state.  An  intensive  police  campaign 


237 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  1986-87  period  resulted  in  the  death  or  capture  of  most  of 
the  AVC  leadership. 

The  AVC  had  come  to  national  attention  in  1983  when  it  broke 
into  a  museum  in  Guayaquil  and  stole  state  swords  used  by  the 
Ecuadorian  national  hero,  Jose  Eloy  Alfaro  Delgado.  The  AVC 
claimed  to  be  non-Marxist  and  adopted  a  vague  program  to  com- 
bat social  injustice.  Analysts  believed  that  AVC  members  were 
primarily  university-educated  middle-  or  upper-class  youths  without 
close  links  to  other  domestic  political  movements.  Some  of  its  lead- 
ers, however,  reportedly  had  ties  with  Cuba  and  Nicaragua.  In 
addition,  police  found  evidence  of  Libyan  involvement  in  the  train- 
ing of  some  AVC  members.  AVC  activists  also  traveled  to  Colom- 
bia for  training  and  participation  in  M-19  military  operations. 

Between  mid- 1986  and  mid- 1987,  the  AVC  kidnapped  two  jour- 
nalists, killed  four  policemen  in  a  rescue  operation  to  free  one  of 
its  members  being  treated  in  a  hospital,  robbed  five  banks  and  a 
factory,  and  took  over  several  radio  stations,  forcing  them  to  broad- 
cast AVC  manifestos.  In  August  1986,  the  AVC  also  kidnapped 
a  prominent  Guayaquil  businessman;  both  the  prisoner  and  his 
kidnappers  died  during  a  massive  police  assault.  After  this  inci- 
dent, police  infiltration,  raids,  and  arrests  dealt  heavy  blows  to  the 
AVC.  By  the  beginning  of  1987,  sixty-one  of  its  members  were 
in  prison  and  many  others  had  been  killed,  including  most  of  the 
leadership. 

Disorganized  and  essentially  leaderless,  the  AVC  had  carried 
out  few  terrorist  actions  since  mid- 1987.  The  remnants  of  the  or- 
ganization entered  into  an  agreement  with  the  government  in  April 
1989  to  lay  down  their  arms,  renounce  violence,  and  integrate  them- 
selves within  the  democratic  system. 

A  small  splinter  group  of  the  AVC ,  Guerrillas  for  a  Free  Home- 
land (Montoneros  Patria  Libre — MPL),  which  made  its  appearance 
in  1986,  did  not  take  part  in  the  negotiations  with  the  government 
and  vowed  to  continue  its  armed  resistance.  Estimated  to  have  a 
membership  of  only  100,  the  MPL  was  suspected  of  a  series  of  bank 
robberies  to  amass  funds  for  its  operations. 

The  Ecuadorian  Communist  Party  (Partido  Comunista  Ecua- 
toriano — PCE)  grew  out  of  the  Socialist  Party,  which  had  been 
formed  in  1926.  The  PCE  gradually  gained  in  importance;  in  1944 
the  PCE  won  fifteen  out  of  eighty-five  seats  in  the  National  As- 
sembly and  had  one  of  its  members  appointed  minister  of  educa- 
tion. In  1946  the  government  outlawed  the  PCE  and  jailed  many 
of  its  members.  The  PCE  was  legalized  during  the  1948-52  term 
of  President  Galo  Plaza  Lasso,  but  was  banned  again  when  the 
military  junta  held  power  in  1963-66.  Thereafter,  the  PCE  was 


238 


National  Security 


a  legally  constituted  political  party,  although  it  had  only  an  esti- 
mated 500  members  in  1988.  The  PCE  participated  in  congres- 
sional and  presidential  elections  as  part  of  the  coalition  of  the  Broad 
Left  Front  (Frente  Amplio  de  la  Izquierda),  which  gained  thirteen 
seats  in  Congress  in  1986.  The  PCE  also  controlled  the  Confeder- 
ation of  Ecuadorian  Workers  (Confederacion  de  Trabajadores 
Ecuatorianos — CTE),  which  comprised  about  20  percent  of  or- 
ganized workers  (see  Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

A  pro-Chinese  faction,  the  Communist  Party  of  Ecuador, 
Marxist-Leninist  (Partido  Comunista  del  Ecuador,  Marxista- 
Leninista— PCE-ML),  broke  away  from  the  PCE  in  1963.  With 
a  membership  estimated  at  only  100,  the  PCE-ML  nevertheless 
published  its  own  newspaper  and  contested  elections  as  part  of  the 
Democratic  Popular  Movement  (Movimiento  Popular  Democra- 
tico — MPD),  a  coalition  that  won  four  seats  in  the  1986  congres- 
sional election.  Both  the  PCE  and  PCE-ML  were  legally  recognized 
as  of  1989  but  had  little  political  impact  and  were  not  regarded 
as  constituting  an  internal  security  risk. 

Police 

Primary  responsibility  for  the  preservation  of  public  order  rested 
with  the  National  Police  functioning  under  the  supervision  of  the 
minister  of  government  and  justice.  According  to  Article  136  of 
the  Constitution,  the  police  are  an  auxiliary  body  of  the  armed  forces 
and  have  the  mission  of  guaranteeing  internal  order  and  individ- 
ual and  collective  security. 

The  congress  established  by  the  constitution  of  1830  decreed  that 
the  separate  municipal  councils  would  create  their  own  police 
departments  and  would  have  appropriate  regulations  for  law  en- 
forcement. For  the  first  thirty  years  after  independence,  the  police 
systems  were  either  under  the  control  of  the  separate  municipali- 
ties or  dominated  by  the  army.  The  police  developed  slowly  under 
a  system  of  provincial  organizations  until  the  formation  of  the  first 
national  police  organization  in  1937.  In  1951  the  name  was  changed 
from  the  National  Civil  Guard  to  the  National  Civil  Police  and 
in  1979  to  the  National  Police. 

In  1988  the  National  Police  had  about  18,000  members  grouped 
in  a  highly  centralized  structure  organized  along  military  lines.  A 
clear  line  of  demarcation  existed  between  officers  and  troops  with 
little  or  no  opportunity  for  troops  to  advance  to  officer  rank.  The 
National  Police  was  headed  by  a  commanding  general  of  the  police 
who  reported  directly  to  the  minister  of  government  and  justice. 
The  organization  consisted  of  a  number  of  support  directorates, 
as  well  as  technical  operations  directorates  (see  fig.  21).  The  country 


239 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


to 

c  c  i  .2  5 
q  JS  (5  c  < 


§.2  8  -2 
j<q.£0_iil 


C  = 

cd  Q. 
CD  CD 

o 


c 
<x> 
E 
c 

<d  o 
o  w 


=5  cd 


Q)  CD 
(3=2 

f  |>£ 

§■=2  * 

E  o 
E 
o 
O 


CL  CO 

O  o 


o  c 


CO 

88 

ci'E 

=  CD 

CD  CO 

o 

la 

I— 

CD  § 

7-j  CO 

Is 

«  c 

C  CO 


240 


National  Security 


Q  CO 

2o 


tn  —  "J 


3  CO  —  CO  'CO 

S"co 


CD 
CL 
O 


4=  co 

CO  o 


CO 

and 

O  & 
D)  — 

E 

om 

co  co  co  co  Si 

O 

CO  isi    i  — 

lo 

o 

o  o 

_c 

oE 

AOJ 

^  co 

Q_ 

o 

'.fc:  CO 

co  .Q 

ond  Di 
iobam 

otr 

CD  — 

C/5 

CO  O 

b'5 


CO 

T3 

C 

co 

Comm 

co  o 

Cotopaxi 
ungurahu 
himboraz 
Bolivar 
Pastaza 

cial 

c 

l-O 

> 

o 

241 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

was  divided  into  four  police  districts,  with  headquarters  in  Quito, 
Riobamba,  Cuenca,  and  Guayaquil,  each  with  five  commands  cor- 
responding to  provincial  boundaries.  The  Galapagos  Islands  were 
included  in  the  Guayaquil  district.  The  National  Police  also  had 
three  instructional  facilities:  the  Troop  Training  School,  which 
offered  basic  instruction  for  enlisted  ranks;  the  Officer  Training 
School,  a  three-year  academy  for  high  school  graduates;  and  the 
Police  Officers'  Higher  Training  School,  which  provided  advanced 
courses. 

Several  specialized  and  local  police  services  supplemented  the 
operations  of  the  National  Police.  The  National  Directorate  for  Con- 
trol of  Illegal  Narcotics  reported  directly  to  the  minister  of  govern- 
ment and  justice.  The  Customs  Police,  with  fewer  than  2,000 
officers  under  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Credit,  countered  smug- 
gling at  ports  and  airports,  supervised  the  storage  of  goods  in  cus- 
toms, and  checked  baggage  of  individuals  entering  and  leaving  the 
country.  Both  Quito  and  Guayaquil  had  metropolitan  police  forces 
of  several  hundred  members  with  a  number  of  low-level  functions, 
such  as  enforcing  local  ordinances,  controlling  public  vendors,  as- 
suring the  removal  of  trash,  and  maintaining  order  in  public  places. 
Most  other  cities  also  had  some  type  of  local  police,  generally  poorly 
organized  and  led,  whose  contribution  to  law  enforcement  and 
prevention  of  crime  was  minimal. 

Standards  of  Police  Conduct 

Although  Ecuadorian  police  authorities  had  no  tradition  of  mas- 
sive or  systematic  human  rights  violations,  public  attention  focused 
on  police  conduct  during  the  latter  part  of  the  1980s.  Evidence  was 
presented  of  torture  and  abuse  of  prisoners  in  the  hands  of  the  police 
and,  in  some  cases,  the  military.  A  number  of  official  and  private 
organizations — including  the  Tribunal  of  Constitutional  Guaran- 
tees (Tribunal  de  Garantias  Constitucionales — TGC),  the  Special 
Commission  on  Human  Rights  of  the  Ecuadorian  National  Con- 
gress, and  the  Ecumenical  Commission  of  Human  Rights  (Comi- 
sion  Ecumenica  de  Derechos  Humanos — Cedhu) — recorded  and 
investigated  human  rights  complaints. 

According  to  Cedhu,  the  police  frequently  subjected  detainees 
suspected  of  political  infractions  to  violence  in  efforts  to  extract  con- 
fessions and  information.  Common-crime  suspects  also  suffered  tor- 
ture or  maltreatment,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Cedhu  reported 
sixty-nine  cases  of  torture  and  eighty-nine  cases  of  brutality  in  1987 
and  a  further  twenty  cases  of  torture  during  the  first  half  of  1988. 
Cedhu  believed  that  police  abuse  was  more  widespread  than  these 
statistics  indicated  since  many  cases  went  unreported.  In  1985  and 


242 


National  Security 


1986,  five  persons  arrested  by  the  police  or  the  military  disappeared 
and  were  believed  to  have  died  in  custody.  No  disappearances  had 
been  recorded  since  1986.  According  to  Cedhu,  forty  persons  in 
1986  and  thirty-four  in  1987  died  while  in  police  custody.  Many 
of  these,  including  several  of  the  ten  AVC  leaders  killed  by  the 
police,  were  believed  to  have  been  victims  of  extrajudicial  exe- 
cutions. 

The  United  States  Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human 
Rights  Practices  for  1987  noted  that,  although  mistreatment  of  de- 
tainees was  not  officially  sanctioned,  the  government  of  Febres 
Cordero  made  no  clear  statement  condemning  the  use  of  exces- 
sive force,  nor  were  penal  actions  taken  against  police  or  military 
personnel  believed  to  have  taken  part  in  deaths,  disappearances, 
or  torture.  Upon  taking  office  in  August  1988,  the  Borja  adminis- 
tration stated  its  unequivocal  opposition  to  official  use  of  abusive 
measures.  The  Department  of  State  reported  that,  although  some 
police  abuse — including  torture — occurred  after  Borja' s  inaugu- 
ration, human  rights  groups  hoped  that  over  time  the  new  presi- 
dent's promises  of  respect  for  human  rights  would  have  an  impact 
on  police  behavior. 

The  TGC,  an  autonomous  body,  is  empowered  under  the  1979 
Constitution  to  investigate  breaches  of  constitutional  or  human 
rights.  Although  the  TGC  had  little  real  power  to  enforce  its  rul- 
ings, it  focused  public  attention  on  human  rights  issues  by  hearing 
complaints  of  human  rights  activists  and  calling  upon  government 
officials  to  respond  to  questions  (see  The  Judiciary,  ch.  4). 

Charges  against  members  of  the  police  were  reviewed  by  spe- 
cial police  courts  under  a  three-tiered  system  consisting  of  tribunals, 
district  courts,  and  the  National  Court  of  Police  Justice.  Although 
the  courts  were  ostensibly  independent,  some  observers  called  into 
question  their  impartiality,  especially  inasmuch  as  most  police 
judges  were  active  or  retired  police  officers.  According  to  a  survey 
by  two  human  rights  groups,  Americas  Watch  and  the  Andean 
Commission  of  Jurists,  the  number  of  cases  involving  wrongful 
homicide  and  torture  was  inexplicably  small  in  relation  to  the  num- 
ber of  complaints  against  the  police  in  the  1984-86  period.  Ap- 
parently none  of  the  trials  had  resulted  in  convictions;  all  were  either 
still  pending  or  had  been  dismissed. 

Narcotics  Control 

Cultivation  of,  and  trafficking  in,  drugs  was  less  of  a  problem 
in  Ecuador  than  in  neighboring  countries.  Coca  cultivation,  which 
began  in  1984,  had  been  essentially  eliminated  by  late  1987  as  a 
result  of  vigorous  government  action.  With  the  assistance  of  the 


243 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

United  States,  which  lent  two  helicopters,  the  Ecuadorian  police 
detected  and  uprooted  plantings  of  the  crop,  grown  mostly  along 
the  border  with  Colombia.  The  police  also  interdicted  shipments 
of  cocaine  and  other  coca  products  across  Ecuador's  territory  to 
markets  and  processing  centers  elsewhere  and  suppressed  cocaine 
refining  laboratories  within  its  borders. 

In  early  1989,  however,  drug  traffickers  reportedly  moved  into 
the  country  from  Colombia  and  Bolivia  because  of  Ecuador's  eas- 
ier access  to  the  United  States  market.  The  United  States  Drug 
Enforcement  Administration  estimated  that  thirty  to  fifty  tons  a 
year  of  Colombian  cocaine  were  being  shipped  through  Ecuador 
destined  for  the  United  States,  Europe,  and  Asia.  Cocaine  had  been 
found  in  container  shipments  of  Ecuadorian  frozen  orange  con- 
centrate and  chocolates  and  in  air  deliveries  of  fresh  flowers. 
Analysts  also  believed  that  the  Colombian  Medellm  Cartel  had  pur- 
chased Ecuadorian  companies.  Few  big  drug  seizures  had  been 
made  because  of  the  limited  resources  of  local  authorities,  although 
coca  laboratories  continued  to  be  raided  and  destroyed. 

In  October  1988,  assailants  assumed  to  have  been  drug  dealers 
murdered  a  superior  court  judge  in  Quito  who  had  been  working 
on  a  number  of  drug  trafficking  cases.  Other  judges  had  received 
death  threats.  Despite  the  fact  that  Ecuador  has  bank  secrecy  laws, 
United  States  officials  believed  that  the  weakness  of  the  sucre  limited 
Ecuador's  potential  to  become  a  major  money-laundering  center. 

In  an  effort  to  assist  Ecuadorian  drug-control  efforts,  the  United 
States  supplied  a  number  of  powerboats  for  patrolling  rivers  in  the 
north  and  islands  near  the  port  of  Guayaquil  and  supplied  train- 
ing by  the  United  States  Navy.  It  also  furnished  sniffer  dogs  to 
detect  drugs  in  export  shipments  and  baggage.  In  FY  1990,  Presi- 
dent George  Bush  requested  from  Congress  US$1 .4  million  in  drug- 
control  assistance  for  Ecuador. 

The  Administration  of  Justice 

The  court  system  consisted  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice, 
which  sat  in  the  capital;  superior  courts  in  the  capitals  of  10 
provinces;  35  provincial  criminal  courts;  87  cantonal  courts;  and 
445  parish  courts.  Parish  judges  tried  minor  civil  matters  and  mis- 
demeanors, their  verdicts  being  subject  to  review  by  cantonal  courts. 
Cantonal  judges  also  could  conduct  preliminary  hearings  and  make 
recommendations  in  criminal  cases.  Nonetheless,  provincial  courts 
were  the  courts  of  first  instance  in  such  cases,  except  those  involv- 
ing government  officials.  Provincial  criminal  judges  had  the  author- 
ity to  try  criminal  cases  for  which,  according  to  the  penal  code, 
the  punishment  did  not  exceed  three  years  in  prison. 


244 


National  Security 


Criminal  proceedings  consisted  of  summary  and  plenary  parts. 
The  first  of  these  usually  took  place  before  a  local  court  and  the 
second  before  a  provincial  criminal  court.  The  summary  assessed 
whether  or  not  an  offense  had  been  committed  and  if  a  trial  were 
warranted;  the  plenary  determined  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the 
accused. 

After  an  arrest,  except  for  minor  offenses,  the  police  were  re- 
quired to  turn  the  suspect  over  to  the  judge  of  the  local  cantonal 
court,  who  would  conduct  an  investigation  to  determine  if  there 
were  sufficient  grounds  for  trial.  According  to  the  law,  the  find- 
ings of  the  investigation  had  to  be  forwarded  within  fifteen  days 
to  the  provincial  criminal  court  holding  jurisdiction  over  the  case. 

When  the  summary  proceedings  had  been  completed,  the  record 
was  delivered  to  the  public  prosecutor  so  that  he  could  prepare  the 
accusation.  If,  in  the  opinion  of  the  presiding  judge,  the  informa- 
tion contained  in  the  summary  did  not  warrant  a  continuation  of 
the  proceedings,  the  judge  could  release  the  suspect  on  bail.  Dis- 
missal of  the  case  would  be  final  if  the  public  prosecutor  could  not 
find  merit  in  the  accusation  or  if  the  judge  felt  the  existence  of  an 
offense  had  not  been  absolutely  established.  If  the  case  warranted 
a  trial,  it  then  went  to  the  Tribunal  of  Crimes,  a  five-member  body 
presided  over  by  the  judge  of  the  provincial  criminal  court.  Upon 
the  completion  of  arguments,  the  tribunal  retired  in  secret  session 
and  then  announced  its  verdict.  Except  in  special  cases,  such  as 
those  involving  a  breach  of  morality,  trials  were  public.  Ecuador 
did  not  use  the  jury  system. 

Defendants  could  call  witnesses  on  their  own  behalf,  cross- 
examine  witnesses,  and  refrain  from  testifying  against  themselves, 
and  could  appeal  sentences  to  intermediate  or  higher  courts.  Ac- 
cused persons  were  entitled  to  legal  counsel  as  soon  as  arrested. 
Although  a  public  defender  system  is  mandated  by  the  1979  Con- 
stitution, it  had  not  been  introduced  as  of  1988.  Persons  who  could 
not  afford  counsel  faced  the  longest  period  of  pretrial  detention. 
Detention  without  charge  for  more  than  forty-eight  hours  was  pro- 
hibited by  the  criminal  code,  but  the  requirement  was  frequently 
violated  in  practice.  Habeas  corpus  could  be  invoked  by  mayors 
or  municipal  council  presidents  who  had  the  constitutional  right 
to  order  the  release  of  detainees.  This  power  tended  to  be  exer- 
cised liberally,  regardless  of  the  severity  of  the  charges. 

According  to  the  Department  of  State's  human  rights  reports, 
the  judicial  system  was  inefficient  and  corruptible,  in  part  because 
of  inexperienced  and  poorly  paid  judges.  A  chronic  backlog  of  cases 
meant  that  detainees  might  be  forced  to  wait  two  years  or  longer 
for  trial.  According  to  the  Special  Commission  on  Human  Rights, 


245 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

approximately  50  percent  of  all  prisoners  as  of  1988  had  not  been 
charged  or  sentenced.  Time  spent  awaiting  trial  counted  toward 
completion  of  a  sentence,  but  that  did  not  help  long-term  detainees 
who  were  eventually  acquitted. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Ecuador  recorded  significant  levels  of  urban 
crime.  The  increased  crime  rate,  particularly  notable  in  Guaya- 
quil and  to  a  lesser  extent  in  Quito,  was  linked  to  the  steady  rural 
to  urban  migration.  Most  migrants  lacked  the  skills  necessary  to 
obtain  employment  in  the  cities.  Many,  in  order  to  provide  for 
themselves  and  their  families,  turned  to  crime.  The  country's  eco- 
nomic setbacks  during  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s  created  an  in- 
creasingly desperate  situation  for  adults  unable  to  find  legitimate 
employment.  Although  muggings,  assaults,  pickpocketing,  and  bur- 
glaries were  the  most  prevalent  forms  of  crime,  since  1985  there 
had  been  an  upsurge  of  robberies  of  banks  and  private  companies 
by  well-armed  gangs,  as  well  as  of  kidnappings  and  sexual  assaults. 
Some  robberies  were  connected  with  the  AVC  or  the  Colombian 
M-19,  but  most  appeared  to  be  the  work  of  professional  criminals. 

Data  reported  to  the  International  Criminal  Police  Organiza- 
tion (Interpol)  indicated  there  were  approximately  26,000  crimes 
committed  in  Ecuador  in  1984.  This  number  included  400  homi- 
cides, more  than  500  rapes,  almost  500  serious  assaults,  approxi- 
mately 2,400  robberies  and  violent  thefts,  more  than  6,000  other 
robberies,  almost  700  car  thefts,  approximately  600  cases  of  fraud, 
and  almost  200  drug  offenses.  Ecuador  had  a  crime  ratio  of  292 
per  100,000  population.  Such  a  rate  would  be  considered  very  low 
on  an  international  scale,  beneath  that  of  many  countries  with  a 
reputation  for  a  low  incidence  of  crime,  such  as  Japan.  Some  ob- 
servers speculated  that  many  offenses  reported  to  the  police  were 
not  classified  as  crimes,  or  that  many  crimes  were  not  brought  to 
the  attention  of  the  police.  For  example,  the  Indian  population  cus- 
tomarily dealt  with  crimes  within  its  own  communities  without 
recourse  to  the  Ecuadorian  police. 

The  Penal  System 

The  National  Directorate  of  Social  Rehabilitation,  a  component 
of  the  Ministry  of  Government  and  Justice,  continued  to  operate 
the  country's  penal  system  in  1989.  The  Garcia  Moreno  Prison 
in  Quito  and  the  Coastal  Prison  in  Guayaquil  were  Ecuador's  larg- 
est criminal  detention  facilities.  Quito  and  the  capitals  of  all  Costa 
and  Sierra  provinces  also  had  municipal  jails. 

Although  the  laws  called  for  rehabilitation  of  prisoners,  few  facili- 
ties had  space,  staffing,  and  equipment  for  education  or  training 
programs.  One  exception,  the  women's  prison  in  Quito,  provided 


246 


National  Security 


both  academic  and  vocational  courses.  Some  private  factories  held 
prison  work  contracts.  All  prisoners  were  expected  to  work  and 
were  paid  a  minimum  wage.  One-third  of  the  wages  went  to  the 
prisoner  upon  release;  one- third  to  pay  expenses  while  in  prison; 
and  one-third  to  the  court  to  take  care  of  expenses  incidental  to 
the  trial.  During  the  1980s,  two  halfway  houses  were  opened  in 
Quito  from  which  prisoners  traveled  to  jobs  and  were  allowed  to 
visit  their  homes. 

Most  prisons  were  greatly  overcrowded,  the  result  of  budgetary 
restrictions  and  the  low  priority  given  prison  construction  and  staff- 
ing. As  of  July  1986,  Ecuador  had  6,450  prisoners  in  a  system  whose 
total  capacity  was  2,600.  The  Garcia  Moreno  Prison,  which  was 
built  in  1875  to  house  300  and  subsequently  remodeled  to  hold  640, 
held  1,800  prisoners  who  were  forced  to  share  twenty  toilets.  As 
of  1988,  a  new  prison  was  scheduled  to  open  in  Quito,  which  would 
help  relieve  existing  pressures. 

According  to  the  Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human 
Rights  Practices  for  1988,  "prison  conditions  are  so  squalid  and  brutal 
that  in  themselves  they  represent  cruel  treatment."  Guards  report- 
edly beat  prisoners  for  disciplinary  reasons.  Notoriously  underpaid, 
guards  reportedly  could  easily  be  bribed  by  prisoners  who  wanted 
to  avoid  punishment,  to  receive  improved  living  conditions,  to  se- 
cure visits,  and  to  obtain  drugs. 

According  to  a  report  by  the  Special  Commission  on  Human 
Rights,  unhygienic  conditions  in  the  prisons  were  conducive  to  skin, 
lung,  gastrointestinal,  and  venereal  infections.  Prisons  had  few  med- 
ical supplies  and  only  sporadic  visits  by  doctors.  Again,  the  Quito 
women's  prison  was  an  exception  to  this  general  pattern. 

The  Department  of  State  reported  that  guards  at  the  Coastal 
Prison  often  mistreated  detainees  charged  with  terrorism  or  sub- 
version. The  Americas  Watch  and  Andean  Commission  of  Jurists 
group  confirmed  these  observations,  documenting  various  forms 
of  guard  brutality  and  the  withholding  of  privileges,  such  as  exer- 
cise, sunlight,  visits,  and  recreation.  This  discrimination  report- 
edly ended  in  1987. 

*    *  * 

A  number  of  studies  trace  the  relationships  between  the  armed 
forces  and  the  civilian  leadership.  John  D.  Martz's  The  Military 
in  Ecuador  assesses  both  the  1972-79  military  regime  and  the  role 
of  senior  officers  following  the  resumption  of  civilian  rule.  Osvaldo 
Hurtado's  Political  Power  in  Ecuador  includes  a  concise  analysis  of 
the  military's  attitude  toward  civilian  politics  and  its  strengths  and 


247 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

shortcomings  while  in  power.  The  Military  Coup  d'etat  as  a  Political 
Process:  Ecuador,  1948-1 966  by  John  Samuel  Fitch,  although  based 
on  earlier  research,  contains  still  relevant  data  on  the  leanings  and 
social  background  of  the  officer  corps.  David  W.  Schodt's  Ecua- 
dor: An  Andean  Enigma  treats  the  role  of  military  figures  and  the 
military  establishment  in  both  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  cen- 
turies. 

Human  Rights  in  Ecuador,  a  study  by  Americas  Watch  and  the 
Andean  Commission  of  Jurists,  contains  much  detail  on  abuses 
by  the  police,  particularly  in  the  treatment  of  political  detainees, 
and  on  prison  conditions.  The  Department  of  State's  annual  studies, 
Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices,  describe  the  operation  of 
the  legal  system  and  practices  of  the  police  and  prison  authorities. 

Up-to-date  reports  on  the  organization  and  operational  status 
of  the  Ecuadorian  armed  forces  are  scarce.  Considerable  informa- 
tion, particularly  of  a  historical  nature,  may  be  found  in  the  sec- 
tion on  Ecuador  in  Adrian  J.  English's  The  Armed  Forces  of  Latin 
America.  The  Military  Balance,  1988-89,  prepared  by  the  London- 
based  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  has  data  con- 
cerning weapons  systems  in  the  armed  forces  inventory.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


248 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Annual  Growth  Rate  by  Region,  Intercensal  Periods,  1950-82 

3  Population  and  Annual  Growth  Rate  of  Guayaquil  and  Quito, 

1950-82 

4  Urban  Growth  Rate  in  the  Costa  and  Sierra  Regions  and  in 

Ecuador  by  Size  of  City,  Intercensal  Periods,  1950-82 

5  Landholding  in  the  Sierra  and  Costa  Regions  by  Size  of  Farm, 

1954  and  1974 

6  Organization  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  1986 

7  Enrollment  by  Level  of  Education,  Selected  Years,  1967-85 

8  Literacy  Rate  among  Population  over  Ten  Years  of  Age,  Cen- 

sus Years,  1950-82 

9  Social  Security  Participation  among  Economically  Active 

Population,  1982 

10  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  1950,  1971,  and  1987 

11  Labor  Force  by  Sector,  1974,  1982,  and  1987 

12  Production  of  Selected  Agricultural  Commodities,  1983,  1984, 

and  1985 

13  Crude  Petroleum  Production  in  the  Costa  and  Oriente  Re- 

gions, 1980-89 

14  Value  of  Manufacturing  Production  by  Sector,  1986 

15  Principal  Exports,  1981-87 

16  Merchandise  Imports,  1982-87 

17  Principal  Trading  Partners,  1985,  1986,  and  1987 

18  Balance  of  Payments,  1983-88 

19  Law-Making  Process,  1989 

20  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 

21  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1988 

22  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1988 


249 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


Table  2.  Annual  Growth  Rate  by  Region,  Intercensal  Periods,  1950-82 


 Annual  Growth  Rate  

Region  1950-62  1962-74  1974-82 


Sierra   2.00  2.50  2.30 

Costa    4.11  3.40  2.66 

Oriente    3.98  7.28  4.95 

Galapagos    4.79  4.54  4.91 

ECUADOR    2.95  3.10  2.62 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ecuador,  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
IV  Censo  Nacional  de  Poblaciony  III  de  Vivienda,  1982 — Resumen  Nacional:  Breve  Andli- 
sis  de  los  Resultados  Definitivos,  Quito,  1985,  32. 


Table  3.  Population  and  Annual  Growth  Rate  of 
Guayaquil  and  Quito,  1950-82 


Population 

Annual  Growth  Rate  * 

City 

1950 

1962  1974 

1982 

1950-62    1962-74   1974-82  1950-82 

Guayaquil 
Quito    .  .  . 

.  258,966 
.  209,932 

510,804  823,219 
354,746  599,828 

1,199,344 
866,472 

5.82       4.06      4.82  4.91 
4.47       4.47       4.70  4.53 

*  Intercensal  periods. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Carlos  Larrea,  "Crecimiento  Urbano  y  Dinamica  de 
las  Ciudades  Intermedias  en  el  Ecuador  (1950-1982),"  in  Fernando  Carrion 
(comp.),  El  Proceso  de  Urbanization  en  el  Ecuador  del  siglo  XVIII  al  siglo  XX — Antologia, 
Quito,  1986,  104,  106. 


251 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  4.  Urban  Growth  Rate  in  the  Costa  and  Sierra 
Regions  and  in  Ecuador  by  Size  of  City, 
Inter censal  Periods,  1950-82 

Region 

Size  of  City  1950-62  1962-74  1974-82  1950-82 


Costa 

Metropolitan  1    5.82  4.06  4.82  4.91 

Intermediate  2    7.71  6.24  6.13  6.76 

Small  3    5.61  3.72  5.51  4.87 

Sierra 

Metropolitan    4.47  4.47  4.70  4.53 

Intermediate   3.96  3.91  4.07  3.97 

Small    1.65  2.79  3.42  2.52 

Ecuador 

Metropolitan    5.24  4.23  4.77  4.74 

Intermediate   5.51  5.07  5.21  5.27 

Small    3.53  3.44  5.02  3.87 


1  More  than  200,000. 

2  50,000  to  200,000. 

3  Less  than  50,000. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Carlos  Larrea,  "Crecimiento  Urbano  y  Dinamica  de 
las  Ciudades  Intermedias  en  el  Ecuador  (1950-1982),"  in  Fernando  Carrion  (ed.), 
El  Proceso  de  Urbanization  en  el  Ecuador  del  siglo  XVIII  al  siglo  XX — Antologia,  Quito, 
1986,  113. 


Table  5.  Landholding  in  the  Sierra  and  Costa 
Regions  by  Size  of  Farm,  1954  and  1974 

 1954    1974  

Region  Percentage  Percentage  of         Percentage  Percentage  of 

Size  of  Farm  1  of  Farms        Agricultural  Land        of  Farms        Agricultural  Land 


Sierra 

0  to  10    90.4 

10  to  20    4.0 

20  to  100    4.4 

100  to  500    0.9 

More  than  500    0.3 

Total  Sierra    100.0 

Costa 

0  to  10    63.0 

10  to  20    12.8 

20  to  100    19.4 

100  to  500    4.0 

More  than  500    0.7 

Total  Costa    100.0  2 


16.5  87.1  18.3 

4.7  5.7  7.8 

14.5  6.1  25.7 

15.6  0.9  16.4 

48.7  0.2  31.8 
100.0  100.0  100.0 

7.0  67.4  8.9 

5.1  11.9  7.4 
23.5  17.7  32.2 
23.0  2.9  24.3 
41.4  0.4  27.2 

100.0  100.0  2  100.0 


1  In  hectares. 

2  Figures  do  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Howard  Handelman,  Ecuadorian  Agrarian  Reform:  The 
Politics  of  Limited  Change,  Hanover,  New  Hampshire,  1980,  13. 


252 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Organization  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  1986 

Catholic  Number  of 

Structure  Area  *  Population  Priests 

Archdiocese 

Cuenca    9,672  363,000  109 

Guayaquil   20,269  1,805,000  248 

Quito    17,090  1,251,540  430 

Diocese 

Ambato   3,844  336,200  64 

Azogues    4,514  181,200  32 

Guaranda    3,336  197,000  29 

Ibarra    5,669  244,500  75 

Latacunga   5,093  314,000  56 

Loja    11,000  377,000  80 

Machala    5,816  313,000  26 

Portoviejo    19,000  1,050,000  86 

Riobamba   6,161  507,000  62 

Tulcan    5,000  135,000  31 

Territorial  prelature 

Los  Rfos   6,521  368,000  18 

Apostolic  vicariate 

Aguarico   28,000  39,600  20 

Esmeraldas    15,000  283,300  37 

Mendez    35,000  63,700  34 

Napo    25,000  52,135  27 

Puyo   24,000  27,000  11 

San  Miguel  de  Sucumbfos    20,000  43,500  12 

Zamora   20,000  50,400  13 

Apostolic  prefecture 

Galapagos   7,860  7,000  5 

TOTAL    297,845  8,009,075  1,505 

*  In  square  kilometers. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Annuario  Pontificio  per  I'anno  1986,  Vatican  City,  1986. 


253 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


CM 

CO 

o 

<r> 

<£5 

<£> 

co 

CM 

CO 

VO 

CM 

r~T 

oT 

CM 

CM 

co 

CO 

CO 

<£> 

<£> 

LO 

<0 

CD 

r-. 

CM 

ccT 

in 

CO 

o 

CM 

"8 


CO 


3 


so 


m 

co 
co 
00 

CO 
CM 

m 

650, 

o 

CM 

m 

co 

<£> 

r-* 

in 

°° 

co^ 

LO 

of 

u-T 

in 

CO 

CO 

CM 

CO 

m 

CM 

<n  m 

CT)  t4 

~h  m 

uo  MO 

m  cm 

CM  t-h 


CO  T-l 


O  I-  <u 


o  & 


254 


Appendix 


Table  8.  Literacy  Rate  among  Population  over  Ten 
Years  of  Age,  Census  Years,  1950-82 
(in  percentages) 

1950  1962  1974  1982 


Urban 

Males   89  92  94  96 

Females    79  86  89  94 

Total  urban    83  89  91  95 

Rural 

Males   51  63  70  80 

Females    38  53  60  71 

Total  rural    45  58  65  76 

Ecuador 

Males   62  73  79  88 

Females    51  66  73  83 

Total  Ecuador    56  70  76  85 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ecuador,  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
IV  Censo  Nacional  de  Poblaciony  III  de  Vivienda,  1982 — Resumen  Nacional:  Breve  Andlisis 
de  los  Resultados  Definitivos,  Quito,  1985,  45. 


Table  9.  Social  Security  Participation  among 
Economically  Active  Population,  1982 
(in  percentages) 


Males 

Females 

Total 

Urban   

  34 

42 

36 

Rural   

  9 

12 

9 

  21 

33 

23 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ecuador,  Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadistica  y  Censos, 
IV  Censo  Nacional  de  Poblaciony  III  de  Vivienda,  1982 — Resumen  Nacional:  Breve  Andlisis 
de  los  Resultados  Definitivos,  Quito,  1985,  59. 


255 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector, 
1950,  1971,  and  1987  " 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1950 

1971 

1987 

Agriculture,  livestock,  fishing, 

 1   C  j.  

24.7 

17.8 

  2.3 

-3.4 

7.6 

16.0 

17.0 

17.6 

Utilities   

0.5 

0.7 

1.6 

Construction   

....  2.7 

7.6 

4.1 

.  .  .  .  10.3 

17.5 

15.7 

  4.8 

6.0 

8.3 

  1.4 

2.4 

2.3 

Public  administration  

5.8 

8.8 

9.3 

....  9.3 

13.6 

13.0 

  8.1 

5.1 

2.7 

TOTAL   

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Banco  Central  del  Ecuador,  Boleti'n  Anuario,  10,  Quito, 

1987. 


Table  11.  Labor  Force  by  Sector,  1974,  1982,  and  1987 
(in  percentages)  * 


Sector 

1974 

1982 

1987 

.  .  .  46.2 

33.5 

34.8 

Government  and  community  services    .  .  . 

,  ,  .  17.0 

23.7 

23.9 

Manufacturing  

,    .  11.7 

12.2 

10.8 

Commerce   

9.7 

11.6 

10.8 

Construction   

4.4 

6.7 

7.3 

Utilities  and  transportation   

.  ...  3.2 

4.9 

4.9 

Finance  and  insurance  

.  ...  1.0 

1.9 

2.3 

Mining   

.  .  .  .  0.3 

0.3 

0.1 

Other  

  6.4 

5.1 

4.9 

TOTAL   

  100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

*  Figures  do  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Banco  Central  del  Ecuador,  Boleti'n  Anuario,  10,  Quito, 
1987. 


256 


Appendix 


Table  12.  Production  of  Selected  Agricultural 
Commodities,  1983,  1984,  and  1985 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Commodity  1983  1984  1985 


Export  crops 

Bananas    1,642.1  1,677.6  1,969.6 

Cocoa    45.0  48.7  130.8 

Coffee    81.1  97.2  120.9 

Sugar  (centrifugal)    2,625.5  3,041.9  2,693.6 

Sugar  (noncentrifugal)    2,994.5  2,656.3  2,301.2 

Major  food  crops 

African  palm  oil   354.2  372.5  457.9 

Barley    29.6  25.0  26.7 

Cassava    194.8  239.2  228.8 

Corn    229.4  325.8  371.4 

Oranges    355.2  272.0  230.7 

Plantains    687.2  744.0  945.5 

Potatoes    314.0  389.6  423.2 

Rice  (paddy)    273.5  437.2  397.4 

Wheat    26.9  25.2  18.5 

Other  crops 

Castor  beans   2.2  1.9  1.7 

Cotton    4.2  7.8  18.9 

Hemp    7.6  18.3  10.0 

Soybeans    14.1  47.4  62.9 

Tea    2.6  2.8  4.3 

Tobacco    1.8  4.4  3.1 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Vjekoslav  Mardesic  (ed.),  Estadi'sticas  del  Ecuador,  Quito, 
1988;  and  Ecuador,  Ministerio  de  Agricultura  y  Ganaderia,  Estimation  de  la  super- 
ficie  cosechada  y  de  la  production  agncola  del  Ecuador,  1983  a  1985,  Quito,  1989. 

Table  13.  Crude  Petroleum  Production  in  the  Costa  and 
Oriente  Regions,  1980-89 
(in  thousands  of  barrels) 


Year  Costa  Oriente  Total 


1980    5,503  742,219  774,769 

1981    5,116  765,164  770,280 

1982    5,193  765,703  770,896 

1983    2,773  864,138  866,611 

1984    4,171  934,626  938,797 

1985    4,380  1,019,978  1,024,159 

1986    4,123  1,065,824  1,069,947 

1987    n.a.  n.a.  669,000 

1988    n.a.  n.a.  1,240,000 

1989    n.a.  n.a.  1,246,000 


n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Banco  Central  del  Ecuador,  Boletin  Anuario,  10,  Quito, 
1987,  170;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Ecuador:  Country  Report,  No.  4,  1990, 
London,  1990,  23. 


257 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14.  Value  of  Manufacturing  Production  by  Sector,  1986 
(in  percentages) 


Sector  Value 


Food  and  tobacco  processing    39.7 

Textiles   22.1 

Minerals  and  metals    12.2 

Paper  and  printing    6.9 

Chemicals  and  plastics    5.8 

Wood  products  and  furniture    5.6 

Machinery  and  metal  products    2.9 

Other    4.8 


TOTAL    100.0 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Banco  Central  del  Ecuador,  Boletin  Anuario,  1987,  Quito, 
1987,  154-55. 


Table  15.  Principal  Exports,  1981-87 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars)  * 


Commodity 

1981 

1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

.  1,560 

1,388 

1,639 

1,679 

1,825 

912 

739 

150 

120 

94 

156 

102 

70 

78 

216 

213 

153 

136 

220 

263 

267 

Coffee   

106 

139 

149 

175 

191 

299 

192 

44 

61 

8 

96 

138 

71 

83 

106 

56 

26 

50 

78 

77 

57 

Shrimp  and  fish   

82 

128 

178 

167 

169 

315 

409 

Processed  food   

138 

118 

56 

100 

123 

110 

87 

Industrial  products  and 

chemicals   

.  113 

102 

44 

48 

52 

61 

105 

*  Free  on  board. 


Table  16.  Merchandise  Imports,  1982-87 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars)  * 


Commodity 

1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

Nondurable  consumer  goods  . 

86 

52 

76 

85 

93 

116 

.  .  371 

208 

230 

138 

126 

139 

.  .  220 

256 

144 

158 

82 

354 

Raw  materials  (agriculture)   .  . 

45 

36 

54 

64 

54 

46 

Raw  materials  (industry)  .... 

.  .  667 

490 

654 

660 

624 

689 

Construction  materials   

79 

32 

37 

39 

50 

53 

Capital  goods  (agriculture)  .  .  . 

29 

9 

14 

29 

31 

24 

Capital  goods  (industry)  

.  .  434 

237 

246 

309 

369 

447 

Transportation  equipment   .  .  . 

.  .  250 

88 

112 

131 

203 

186 

TOTAL   

2,181 

1,408 

1,567 

1,613 

1,632 

2,054 

*  Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 


258 


Appendix 


Table  17.  Principal  Trading  Partners,  1985,  1986,  and  1987 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


Country  1985  1986  1987 


Imports 

Brazil    123  120  119 

Italy    50  100  65 

Japan    207  205  257 

Spain    50  52  58 

United  States    575  509  575 

West  Germany   167  165  170 

Other   566  625  675 

Total  imports    1,738  1,776  1,919 

Exports 

Chile    44  47  31 

Colombia    47  30  23 

Japan    62  57  48 

Panama    120  59  43 

United  States    1,636  1,322  1,243 

West  Germany   59  78  80 

Other    1,088  578  561 

Total  exports    3,056  2,171  2,029 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  James  W.  Wilkie  and  Enrique  Ochoa  (eds.),  Statistical 
Abstract  of  Latin  America,  27,  Los  Angeles,  1989,  639-40. 


259 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  18.  Balance  of  Payments,  1983-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

1988 

Merchandise 

Exports  1   

2,348 
.  -1,421 

2,622 
-1,567 

2,905 
-1,611 

2,186 
-1,631 

2,021 
-2,054 

2,203 
-1,614 

Trade  balance   

927 

1,055 

1,294 

555 

-33 

589 

Services 

340 

350 

418 

431 

444 

446 

Imports   

.  -1,295 

-1,573 

-1,643 

-1,644 

-1,674 

-1,692 

Balance  on  goods  and 

-28 

-168 

69 

-658 

-1,263 

-657 

Government  unrequited 

24 

20 

80 

45 

132 

60 

Current  account  balance    .  . 

-4 

-148 

149 

-613 

-1,131 

-597 

Direct  capital  investment 

(net)   

50 

50 

62 

70 

75 

80 

Other  long-term  capital 

(net)   

-1,200 

-896 

-752 

-339 

83 

-891 

Short-term  capital  (net)    .  .  . 

.  -1,098 

-267 

-287 

-95 

72 

138 

Net  errors  and  omissions  .  . 

.  -182 

-74 

77 

-173 

-133 

192 

Total  monetary  movement 

(net)   

-2,434 

-1,335 

-751 

-1,150 

-1,034 

-1,078 

Valuation  changes   

14 

22 

-27 

-29 

-62 

-23 

Exceptional  financing  

2,473 

1,327 

881 

1,025 

936 

1,026 

74 

-72 

-107 

-47 

-1 

65 

127 

-58 

-4 

-201 

-161 

-10 

1  Free  on  board. 

2  Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  International  Financial  Statis- 
tics, 43,  No.  6,  Washington,  1990,  206. 


260 


Appendix 


Table  19.  Law -Making  Process,  1989 

Step  Description 

Step  1   Bill  is  initiated  by  legislators  or  Plenary  of  Legislative  Commissions 

(Plenario  de  las  Comisiones  Legislativas — PCL),  the  president  of  the 
republic,  judicial  organs,  or  popular  initiatives. 

Step  2   Text  is  provided  to  each  legislator  fifteen  days  prior  to  debate  in  Congress. 

Step  3   Proposed  bill  is  discussed  in  two  debates  on  different  days.  After  first  de- 
bate, it  may  be  returned  to  the  originating  commission,  which  must 
report  on  new  observations  to  modify,  alter,  or  change  it. 

Step  4   At  second  debate,  observations  may  be  presented  only  if  supported  by 

two-thirds  of  the  legislators  present. 

Step  5   If  the  president  has  presented  the  proposed  bill,  he  may  intervene  in  a 

specially  convened  discussion  without  voting  rights. 

Step  6   On  being  approved  by  Congress  or  the  PCL,  proposed  bill  must  be  sub- 


mitted to  the  president,  who  may  approve  or  object  to  it.  President 
may  also  approve  it  tacitly  by  allowing  ten  days  to  pass  without  veto- 
ing it.  President  may  object  either  totally  or  partially.  If  the  objection 
is  partial,  the  part  not  objected  to  must  be  adopted  immediately.  In 
that  case,  Congress  may  accept  the  partial  objection,  correct  the  bill 
accordingly,  and  resubmit  it  to  the  president.  Congress  may  also  in- 
sist on  the  original  version  of  the  proposed  bill  by  a  vote  of  two-thirds 
of  its  members  and  proceed  to  promulgate  it. 

Step  7   Final  stage  is  promulgation,  which  requires  publishing  the  law  in  Registro 

Oficial  del  Estado  (Official  Register  of  the  State). 


261 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Table  20.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 


Country  Number  in 

Type  of  Origin  Inventory  * 


Tanks 

M-3   United  States  45 

AMX-13    France  104 

Armored  vehicles 

AML  60/90  reconnaissance    -do-  35 

EE-9  Cascavel  reconnaissance    Brazil  10 

M-113  tracked  personnel  carriers    United  States  20 

AMX-VCI  personnel  carriers    France  60 

EE- 11  Urutu  wheeled  personnel  carriers    Brazil  18 

Artillery 

Oto  Melara  M-56  105mm   Italy  n.a. 

M-101  105mm    United  States  50 

M-198  155mm    -do-  10 

MK  73  155mm  self-propelled    France  10 

Mortars 

Soltam  160mm   Israel  12 

Recoilless  rifles 

M-67  90mm  and  M-40  106mm    .   United  States  400 

Air  defense  guns 

M-1935  20mm    -do-  28 

Oerlikon  GDF-002  twin  30mm    Sweden  30 

Bofors  M-1A1  40mm    -do-  30 

Surface-to-air  missiles 

Blowpipe  shoulder-fired    Britain  150 

Aircraft 

Liaison,  utility,  and  survey,  various  types    United  States  21 

Helicopters 

SA-330  Puma    France  3 

SA-315  Lama    -do-  3 

AS-332  Super  Puma    -do-  4 

SA-342  Gazelle    -do-  4 


n.a. — not  available 
*  Estimated. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989,  London,  1988,  195. 


262 


Appendix 


Table  21.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1988 

Country  Number  in  Date 

Type  of  Origin  Inventory  Commissioned 

Destroyer 

Gearing-class,  3,500  tons,  1946;  modernized 

four  5-inch  guns    United  States  1  1980 

Frigate 

Lawrence-class,  2,130  tons, 

one  5-inch  gun    -do-  1  1943 

Submarines 

Shyri  (T-209),  1,300  tons  West  Germany  2  1977-78 

Corvettes 

Esmeraldas,  550  tons,  each 

with  six  Exocet  missiles   Italy  6  1982-84 

Fast  attack  craft 

Quito  (Liirssen  45),  255  tons, 
each  with  four  Exocet 

missiles   West  Germany  3  1976-77 

Manta  (Liirssen  36),  120  tons, 
each  with  four  Gabriel 

missiles    -do-  3  1971 

Coastal  patrol  craft 

77-foot    -do-  3  1954-55 

65-foot    United  States  3  Delivered  1976 

Amphibious 

Landing  ship,  tank,  Recommissioned 
1,650  tons    -do-  1  1977 

Landing  ship,  medium, 

750  tons    -do-  1  1945 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1988-89,  London,  1988,  139-43. 


263 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  22.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1988 


Type 


Country 
of  Origin 


Number  in 
Inventory 


Fighters  (ground  attack) 

Jaguar  S,  B    Britain  12 

Kfir  C-2,  TC-2   Israel  11 

Fighters 

Mirage  F-1J    France  16 

Light  attack  and  jet  conversion  training 

Cessna  A-37B    United  States  7 

Lockhead  At-33  (reconditioned  T-33)    -do-  25 

Strikemaster  Mk  89   Britain  6 

Transports 
TAME 

Boeing  727    United  States  4 

Lockheed  C-130H  Hercules   -do-  1 

C-160    France  1 

BAe  748    Britain  2 

DHC-6  Twin  Otter    Canada  3 

Ecuatoriana 

Boeing  720    United  States  3 

Boeing  707   -do-  2 

Helicopters  (liaison  and  sea-air  rescue) 

AS-332  Super  Puma    France  2 

SA-330  Puma    -do-  1 

Alouette  III    -do-  6 

Bell  212,  214    United  States  3 

Bell  UH-1H    -do-  3 

Trainers 

Beech  T-34C    -do-  20 

Cessna  T-41    -do-  2 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989,  London,  1988,  195-96; 

and  DMS  Market  Intelligence  Report:  South  America/ Australasia,  Greenwich,  Connec- 
ticut, 1989. 


264 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Agee,  Philip.  Inside  the  Company:  CIA  Diary.  Harmondsworth,  United 

Kingdom:  Penguin  Books,  1975. 
Aguilar-Monsalve,  Luis  Antonio.  "The  Separation  of  Church  and 

State:  The  Ecuadoran  Case,"  Thought,  59,  No.  233,  1984,  205- 

18. 

Alcina  Franch,  Jose.  Manual  de  Arqueologia  Americana.  Madrid:  Agui- 
lar,  1965. 

Ayala  Mora,  Enrique.  Lucha  politicay  origen  de  los  partidos  en  Ecua- 
dor. (4th  ed.)  Quito:  Corporacion  Editora  Nacional,  1988. 

Bannon,  John  Francis,  Robert  Ryal  Miller,  and  Peter  Masten 
Dunne.  Latin  America.  (4th  ed.)  Encino,  California:  Glencoe 
Press,  1977. 

Bennett,  Wendell  C.  "The  Andean  Highlands:  An  Introduction." 
Pages  1-60  in  Julian  H.  Steward  (ed.),  Handbook  of  South  Ameri- 
can Indians,  2:  The  Andean  Civilizations.  (Smithsonian  Institution, 
Bureau  of  American  Ethnology,  Bulletin  143.)  New  York: 
Cooper  Square,  1963. 

Bialek,  Robert  W.  Catholic  Politics  in  Ecuador.  New  York:  Vantage 
Press,  1963. 

Blanksten,  George  I.  Ecuador:  Constitutions  and  Caudillos.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California,  1951. 

 "Ecuador:  The  Politics  of  Instability."  Pages  69-90  in 

Martin  C.  Needier  (ed.),  Political  Systems  of  Latin  America.  Prince- 
ton: Van  Nostrand,  1964. 

Bork,  Albert  William,  and  Georg  Maier.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Ec- 
uador. Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1973. 

Brownrigg,  Leslie  Ann.  "Interest  Groups  in  Regime  Changes  in 
Ecuador,"  Inter-American  Economic  Affairs,  28,  No.  1,  Summer 
1974,  3-17. 

Clayton,  Lawrence  A.  "Trade  and  Navigation  in  the  Seventeenth 
Century  Viceroyalty  of  Peru,"  Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies 
[Cambridge],  7,  No.  1,  May  1975,  1-21. 

Collier,  Donald.  "The  Archeology  of  Ecuador."  Pages  767-84  in 
Julian  H.  Steward  (ed.),  Handbook  of  South  American  Indians,  2: 
The  Andean  Civilizations.  (Smithsonian  Institution,  Bureau  of 
American  Ethnology,  Bulletin  143.)  New  York:  Cooper  Square, 
1963. 


265 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Conaghan,  Catherine  M.  "Industrialists  and  Reformist  Inter- 
regnum: Dominant  Class  Behavior  and  Ideology  in  Ecuador, 
1972-1979."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  Haven:  Yale  Univer- 
sity, 1983. 

Corkill,  David.  "Democratic  Politics  in  Ecuador,  1979-1984," 

Bulletin  of  Latin  American  Research  [London],  4,  No.  2,  1985,  63-74. 
 "The  Politics  of  Military  Government  in  Ecuador:  The 

Rodriguez  Lara  Regime,  1972-1976,"  Bulletin  of  the  Society  for 

Latin  American  Studies,  No.  26,  1977,  44-63. 
Cueva,  Agustm.  El proceso  de  dominacion  politica  en  el  Ecuador.  Quito: 

Editorial  Planeta,  1988. 
 .  The  Process  of  Political  Domination  in  Ecuador.  (Trans., 

Danielle  Salti.)  New  Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Transaction  Books, 

1982. 

Cushner,  Nicolas  P.  Farm  and  Factory:  The  Jesuits  and  the  Develop- 
ment of  Agrarian  Capitalism  in  Colonial  Quito,  1600-1767.  Albany: 
State  University  of  New  York,  1982. 

Davidson,  David.  "Good  Neighbors,"  American  Heritage,  35,  No.  3, 
1984,  104-9. 

Deas,  Malcolm.  "Colombia,  Ecuador,  and  Venezuela,  c.  1880- 
1930."  Pages  641-84  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  His- 
tory of  Latin  America,  4-5:  C  1870-1930.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1986. 

 .  "Venezuela,  Colombia,  and  Ecuador:  The  First  Half- 
Century  of  Independence."  Pages  507-38  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.), 
The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  America,  3:  From  Independence  to  c. 
1870.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

Drekonja,  Gerard,  et  al.  Ecuador:  Hoy.  Bogota:  Siglo  Veintiuno  Edi- 
tores,  1978. 

"Ecuador:  Oil  up  for  Grabs,"  NACLA's  Latin  America  and  Empire 
Report,  9,  No.  8,  November  1975,  2-38. 

Enock,  C.  Reginald.  Ecuador:  Its  Ancient  and  Modern  History,  Topog- 
raphy and  Natural  Resources,  Industries  and  Social  Development.  Lon- 
don: Unwin,  1914. 

Fitch,  John  Samuel.  "Class  Structure,  Populism,  and  the  Armed 
Forces  in  Contemporary  Ecuador,"  Latin  American  Research 
Review,  19,  No.  1,  1984,  270-74. 

 The  Military  Coup  dEtat  as  a  Political  Process:  Ecuador, 

1948-1966.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1977. 

Franklin,  Albert  B.  Ecuador:  Portrait  of  a  People.  New  York:  Double- 
day  and  Doran,  1943. 

Gibson,  Charles  Robert.  Foreign  Trade  in  the  Economic  Development 
of  Small  Nations :  The  Case  of  Ecuador.  New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 


266 


Bibliography 


Gonzalez  Suarez,  Federico.  Historia  General  de  la  Republica  del  Ecua- 
dor. (3  vols.)  Quito:  Casa  de  la  Cultura  Ecuatoriana,  1970. 

Grayson,  G.W.  "Populism,  Petroleum,  and  Politics  in  Ecuador," 
Current  History,  68,  No.  401,  1975,  15-19,  39-40. 

Hanson,  David  Parker.  "The  Influence  of  Business  Groups  in  Ec- 
uadoran Politics  Between  1959  and  1962."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.) 
Gainesville:  University  of  Florida,  1971. 

Herring,  Hubert.  A  History  of  Latin  America  from  the  Beginnings  to 
the  Present.  (3d  ed.)  New  York:  Knopf,  1968. 

Howe,  George.  "Garcia  Moreno's  Efforts  to  Unite  Ecuador  and 
France,"  Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  16,  No.  2,  May 
1936,  257-62. 

Hurtado,  Osvaldo.  Political  Power  in  Ecuador.  (2d  ed.)  (Trans., 
Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Icaza,  Jorge.  Huasipungo:  The  Villagers,  A  Novel.  (Trans.,  Bernard  M. 
Dulsey.)  Carbondale:  Southern  Illinois  University,  1964. 

Jaramillo  Alvarado,  Pio.  Estudios  Historicos:  Esayos  sobre  la  Vida  In- 
terna e  Internacional  de  la  Republica.  Quito:  n.  pub.,  1934. 

Kantor,  Harry.  "Ecuador:  The  Politics  of  Regionalism."  Pages 
427-58  in  Harry  Kantor  (ed.),  The  Patterns  of  Politics  and  Political 
Systems  in  Latin  America.  Chicago:  Rand  McNally,  1969. 

Levy,  James,  and  Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.  "The  Challenge  to  Democratic 
Reformism  in  Ecuador,"  Studies  in  Comparative  International  De- 
velopment, 18,  No.  4,  1983,  3-33. 

Linke,  Lilo.  Ecuador:  Country  of  Contrasts.  (3d  ed.)  New  York:  Ox- 
ford University,  1960. 

Maier,  Georg.  The  Ecuadoran  Presidential  Election  of  fune  2,  1968:  An 
Analysis.  Washington:  Institute  for  the  Comparative  Study  of  Po- 
litical Systems,  1969. 

 "The  Impact  of  Velasquismo  on  the  Ecuadoran  Political  Sys- 
tem." (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Gainesville:  University  of  Florida, 
1966. 

 "Presidential  Succession  in  Ecuador,  1830-1970,"  Jour- 
nal of  Inter- American  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  13,  No.  3-4,  1971, 
475-509. 

Martz,  John  D.  "Ecuador:  Authoritarianism,  Personalism,  and  De- 
pendency." Pages  381-99  in  Howard  J.  Wiarda  and  Harvey  F. 
Kline  (eds.),  Latin  American  Politics  and  Development.  (2d  ed.)  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

 Ecuador:  Conflicting  Political  Culture  and  the  Quest  for  Progress. 

(The  Allyn  and  Bacon  Series  in  Latin  American  Politics.)  Boston: 
Allyn  and  Bacon,  1972. 

 "Ecuador:  The  Right  Takes  Command,"  Current  History, 

84,  No.  499,  February  1985,  69-72,  84-85. 


267 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


 .  "Populist  Leadership  and  the  Party  Caudillo:  Ecuador  and 

the  CFP,  1962-81,"  Studies  in  Comparative  International  Develop- 
ment, 18,  No.  3,  Fall  1983,  22-49. 

 "The  Quest  for  Popular  Democracy  in  Ecuador,"  Cur- 
rent History,  78,  No.  454,  February  1980,  66-70,  84. 

Mason,  J.  Alden.  The  Ancient  Civilizations  of  Peru.  Middlesex,  United 
Kingdom:  Penguin  Books,  1957. 

Mecham,  J.L.  Church  and  State  in  Latin  America:  A  History  of  Politico- 
Ecclesiastical  Relations.  Chapel  Hill:  University  of  North  Caro- 
lina Press,  1966. 

Mejia,  Leonardo,  et  al.  Ecuador:  Pasadoy  Presente.  Quito:  Editorial 
Alberto  Crespo  Encalada,  1983. 

Mills,  Jr.,  Nick  D.  Crisis,  Conflicto y  Consenso:  Ecuador,  1979-84. 
Quito:  Corporation  Editora  Nacional,  1984. 

Morner,  Magnus.  The  Andean  Past:  Land,  Societies,  and  Conflicts.  New 
York:  Columbia  University,  1985. 

Murra,  John.  "Andean  Societies  Before  1532."  Pages  59-90  in 
Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  America,  1-2: 
Colonial  Latin  America.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1984. 

 "The  Historic  Tribes  of  Ecuador."  Pages  785-821  in 

Julian  H.  Steward  (ed).,  Handbook  of  South  American  Indians,  2: 
The  Andean  Civilizations.  (Smithsonian  Institution,  Bureau  of 
American  Ethnology,  Bulletin  143.)  New  York:  Cooper  Square, 
1963. 

Needier,  Martin  C.  Anatomy  of  a  Coup  dEtat:  Ecuador  1963.  Washing- 
ton: Institute  for  the  Comparative  Study  of  Political  Systems, 
1964. 

Nett,  Emily.  "The  Structural  Elites  of  Quito,"  Journal  of  Inter- 
American  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  13,  No.  2,  January  1971, 
112-20. 

Norris,  Robert  E.  Guta  Bibliogrdfica  para  el  Estudio  de  la  Historia  Ecua- 
toriana.  (Institute  of  Latin  American  Studies,  Guides  and  Bib- 
liographies Series,  No.  11.)  Austin:  University  of  Texas,  1978. 

Pareja  Diezcanseco,  Alfredo.  Ecuador:  De  la  Prehistoria  a  la  Conquista 
Espaiiola.  Quito:  Editorial  Universitaria,  1979. 

 .  Ecuador:  La  Republica,  de  1830  a  Nuestros  Dias.  Quito: 

Editorial  Universitaria,  1979. 

Pattee,  Richard.  Gabriel  Garcia  Moreno y  el  Ecuador  de  su  tiempo.  Mex- 
ico: Editorial  Jus,  1962. 

Phelan,  John  Leddy.  The  Kingdom  of  Quito  in  the  Seventeenth  Century: 
Bureaucratic  Politics  in  the  Spanish  Empire.  Madison:  University  of 
Wisconsin,  1967. 


268 


Bibliography 


Pike,  Frederick  B.  The  United  States  and  the  Andean  Republics:  Peru, 
Bolivia,  and  Ecuador.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1977. 

Pyne,  Peter.  "The  Politics  of  Instability  in  Ecuador:  The  Over- 
throw of  the  President,  1961 ,"  Journal  of  Latin  American  Studies, 
7,  No.  1,  May  1975,  109-33. 

Quintero,  Rafael.  ElMito  del  Populismo  en  el  Ecuador.  Quito:  Editorial 
Universitaria,  1980. 

Redclift,  M.R.  "Agrarian  Reform  and  Peasant  Organization  in 
the  Guayas  Basin,  Ecuador,"  Inter-American  Economic  Affairs,  30, 
No.  1,  Summer  1976,  3-28. 

Reyes,  Oscar  Efren.  Breve  Historia  General  del  Ecuador,  (vols.  2  and 
3  as  one  volume,  11th  ed.)  Quito:  n.  pub.,  1978. 

Rodriguez,  Linda  Alexandra.  The  Search  for  Public  Policy:  Regional 
Politics  and  Government  Financing  in  Ecuador,  1830-1940.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1985. 

Rosenberg,  E.S.  "Dollar  Diplomacy  under  Wilson:  An  Ecuadoran 
Case,"  Inter- American  Economic  Affairs,  25,  Autumn  1972,  47-53. 

Rowe,  John  Howland.  "Inca  Culture  at  the  Time  of  the  Spanish 
Conquest."  Pages  198-330  in  Julian  H.  Steward  (ed.),  Hand- 
book of  South  American  Indians,  2:  The  Andean  Civilizations.  (Smith- 
sonian Institution,  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology,  Bulletin  143.) 
New  York:  Cooper  Square,  1963. 

Salomon,  Frank.  Ethnic  Lords  of  Quito  in  the  Age  of  the  Incas:  The  Po- 
litical Economy  of  North-Andean  Chiefdoms.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University 
Press,  1978. 

Schodt,  David  W.  "State  Structure  and  Reformist  Politics:  Ecua- 
dor During  the  Petroleum  Period:  1972-1983,"  Technical  Papers 
Series  (University  of  Texas,  Institute  of  Latin  American  Studies, 
Office  for  Public  Sector  Studies.),  No.  52,  1986. 

Scholes,  W.,  and  M.V.  Scholes.  "The  United  States  and  Ecua- 
dor, 1909-1913,"  The  Americas,  19,  1963,  276-90. 

Szaszdi,  Adam.  "The  Historiography  of  the  Republic  of  Ecuador," 
Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  44,  No.  4,  November  1964, 
503-50. 

TePaske,  John  J.  (ed.).  Research  Guide  to  Andean  History:  Bolivia,  Chile, 
Ecuador,  and  Peru.  Durham:  Duke  University,  1981. 

Thomsen,  Moritz.  Living  Poor:  A  Peace  Corps  Chronicle.  Seattle: 
University  of  Washington,  1969. 

Tyrer,  Robson  Brines.  "The  Demographic  and  Economic  History 
of  the  Audiencia  of  Quito:  Indian  Population  and  the  Textile 
Industry,  1600-1800."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Berkeley:  Univer- 
sity of  California,  1976. 

Villacres  Moscoso,  Jorge  W.  Historia  Diplomdtica  de  la  Republica  del 
Ecuador.  (5  vols.)  Guayaquil:  Universidad  de  Guayaquil,  1978. 


269 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Von  Hagen,  Victor  Wolfgang.  Ecuador.  Chur,  Switzerland:  Plata, 
1975. 

Wachtel,  Nathen.  "The  Indian  and  the  Spanish  Conquest."  Pages 
207-48  in  Leslie  Bethell  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  Amer- 
ica, 1-2:  Colonial  Latin  America.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Univer- 
sity Press,  1984. 

Washburn,  Douglas  Alan.  "The  Bourbon  Reforms:  A  Social  and 
Economic  History  of  the  Audiencia  of  Quito,  1760-1810." 
(Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Austin:  University  of  Texas,  1984. 

Weinman,  LJ.  "Ecuador  and  Cacao:  Domestic  Responses  to  the 
Boom-Collapse  Monoexport  Cycle."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Berke- 
ley: University  of  California,  1970. 

Wright,  F.J.  "1968  Ecuadoran  Presidential  Campaign,"  Inter- 
American  Economic  Affairs,  23,  Spring  1970,  81-94. 

Zevallos,  Jose  Vicente.  "Oil,  Power  and  Rural  Change  in  Ecua- 
dor: 1972-1979."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  Madison:  University  of 
Wiscon-sin,  1985. 

Zook,  David  H.,  Jr.  Zarumilla-Maranon:  The  Ecuador-Peru  Dispute. 
New  York:  Bookman  Associates,  1964. 

Zuvekas,  Clarence.  "Economic  Planning  in  Ecuador:  An  Evalu- 
ation," Inter- American  Economic  Affairs,  25,  No.  4,  Spring  1972, 
39-69. 


Chapter  2 

Annuario  Pontificio  per  Vanno  1986.  Vatican  City:  1986. 

Bales,  Fred  V.  "Comparing  Media  Use  and  Political  Orientation 
among  Squatter  Settlers  of  Two  Latin  American  Countries." 
(University  of  New  Mexico,  Latin  American  Institute,  Research 
Paper  Series,  No.  4.)  Albuquerque,  New  Mexico:  June  1983. 

Banco  Central  del  Ecuador.  Boletin  Anuario,  No.  8.  Quito:  1985. 

Basile,  David  Giovanni.  Tillers  of  the  Andes:  Farmers  and  Farming  in 
the  Quito  Basin.  (Studies  in  Geography,  No.  8.)  Chapel  Hill: 
University  of  North  Carolina,  Department  of  Geography,  1974. 

Belote,  Linda  Smith,  and  Jim  Belote.  "Drain  from  the  Bottom: 
Individual  Ethnic  Identity  Change  in  Southern  Ecuador,"  So- 
cial Forces,  63,  No.  1,  September  1984,  24-50. 

Bilsborrow,  Richard  E.,  et  al.  "The  Impact  of  Origin  Commu- 
nity Characteristics  on  Rural-Urban  Out-Migration  in  a  De- 
veloping Country,"  Demography,  24,  No.  2,  May  1987,  191-210. 

Borja  M.,  Eduardo.  "Factores  determinantes  de  una  mortalidad 
prematura  en  Ecuador."  (World  Fertility  Survey  Scientific 
Reports,  No.  74.)  Voorburg,  Netherlands:  June  1985. 


270 


Bibliography 

Burns,  E.  Bradford.  Elites,  Masses,  and  Modernization  in  Latin  America, 
1850-1930.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1979. 

Carrion,  Fernando  (comp.).  El  Proceso  de  Urbanizacion  en  el  Ecuador 
del  siglo  XVIII  al  siglo  XX — Antologia.  Quito:  Editorial  El  Conejo, 
1986. 

Casagrande,  Joseph  B.  "Strategies  for  Survival:  The  Indians  of 
Highland  Ecuador."  Pages  93-107  in  Dwight  B.  Heath  (ed.), 
Contemporary  Cultures  and  Societies  of  Latin  America.  New  York:  Ran- 
dom House,  1974. 

Centro  de  Documentacion  MIEC-JECI.  Los  Sucesos  del  Riobamba. 
(America  Latina  Boletin  Series,  11.)  Lima:  1976. 

Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Demografia,  Ecuador:  Estimaciones  y 
Proyecciones  de  Poblacion,  1950-2000.  Quito:  1984. 

Collier,  Simon,  Harold  Blakemore,  and  Thomas  E.  Skidmore 
(eds.).  The  Cambridge  Encyclopedia  of  Latin  America  and  the  Carib- 
bean. Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

Commander,  Simon,  and  Peter  Peek.  "Oil  Exports,  Agrarian 
Change,  and  the  Rural  Labor  Process:  The  Ecuadorian  Sierra 
in  the  1970s,"  World  Development,  14,  No.  1,  January  1986,  79-96. 

"Conferencia  Episcopal  de  Ecuador:  Declaracion  de  la  Conferen- 
cia  Episcopal  Ecuatoriana  ante  el  proximo  proceso  electoral," 
Celam  [Bogota],  25,  No.  215,  August- September  1987,  38-42. 

Consejo  Episcopal  Latinoamericano.  Ill  Conferencia  General  del  Epis- 
copado  Latinoamericano:  Aportes  de  las  Conferencias  Episcopales,  3. 
Bogota:  1978. 

Crespi,  Muriel.  "When  Indios  Become  Cholos:  Some  Conse- 
quences of  the  Changing  Ecuadorian  Hacienda."  Pages  148-66 
in  John  W.  Bennett  (ed.),  The  New  Ethnicity:  Perspectives  from  Eth- 
nology. St.  Paul,  Minnesota:  West,  1975. 

"Detengamos  la  violencia:  Declaracion  del  Consejo  Permanente 
del  Episcopado,"  Celam  [Bogota],  24,  No.  202,  October- Novem- 
ber 1985,  18-19. 

de  Vries,  Lucie.  Politica  Linguistica  en  Ecuador,  Peru,  y  Bolivia.  Quito: 
EBI  (MEC-GTZ)-CEDIME,  Editorial  Abya-Yala,  1988. 

Ecuador.  Consejo  Nacional  de  Desarrollo,  Instituto  Nacional  de 
Estadfstica  y  Censos,  and  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Demo- 
grafia. Ecuador:  Estimaciones y  Proyecciones  de  Poblacion,  1950-2000. 
Quito:  1984. 

 Instituto  Nacional  de  Estadistica  y  Censos.  IV  Censo  Na- 
cional de  Poblacion y  III  de  Vivienda,  1982 — Resumen  Nacional:  Breve 
Andlisis  de  los  Resultados  Definitivos.  Quito:  1985. 

Egginton,  Everett,  and  Wynn  M.  DeBevoise.  "Ecuador."  Pages 
343-51  in  World  Education  Encyclopedia.  New  York:  Facts  on  File, 
1988. 


271 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Farez,  Roberto,  et  al.  Ecuador:  Iglesia,  Pueblo y  Liberation.  (Colec- 
cion:  Dialogo  Social  Series.)  Quito:  Fundacion  Ecuatoriana  de 
Estudios  Sociales,  1986. 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Statistisches  Bundesamt  Wiesbaden. 
Landerbericht  Ecuador,  1988.  (Statistik  des  Auslandes  Series.)  Wies- 
baden: 1988. 

Finerman,  Ruthbeth.  "Inside  Out:  Women's  World  View  and 
Family  Health  in  an  Ecuadorian  Indian  Community,"  Social 
Science  and  Medicine,  25,  No.  10,  1987,  1157-62. 

Fundacion  Nuestros  Jovenes.  Plan  General  de  Investigation:  elSistema 
de  Drogas  Ecuatoriano  y  el  Impacto  de  la  Cocaina  en  el  Area  Andina. 
Quito:  1989. 

Gomez  E.,  Nelson.  Elementos  de  Geografia  del  Ecuador:  El  Hombre y 
el  Medio.  (Coleccion  Imagenes  de  la  Tierra  Series.)  Quito:  Edi- 
torial Ediguias,  1989. 

Handelman,  Howard.  "Development  and  Misdevelopment  in  Ec- 
uador, "Journal  of  Interamerican  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  24,  No.  1 , 
February  1982,  115-22. 

 .  Ecuadorian  Agrarian  Reform:  The  Politics  of  Limited  Change. 

(American  Universities  Field  Staff,  Fieldstaff  Reports,  South 
America,  No.  49.)  Hanover,  New  Hampshire:  AUFS,  1980. 

Harner,  Michael  J.  "The  Supernatural  World  of  the  Jivaro."  Pages 
347-56  in  Daniel  R.  Gross,  Jr.  (ed.),  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  Na- 
tive South  America.  New  York:  Doubleday/The  Natural  History 
Press,  1973. 

Hiraoka,  Mario,  and  Shozo  Yamamoto.  "Agricultural  Develop- 
ment in  the  Upper  Amazon  of  Ecuador, ' '  Geographical  Review, 
70,  No.  4,  October  1980,  423-45. 

Hurtado,  Osvaldo.  Political  Power  in  Ecuador.  (2d  ed.)  (Trans., 
Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Kouwenaar,  Arend.  A  Basic  Needs  Policy  Model:  A  General  Equilib- 
rium Analysis  with  Special  Reference  to  Ecuador.  Amsterdam:  North 
Holland,  1988. 

Kroeger,  Axel,  and  Francoise  Varobora-Freedman.  Cultural  Change 
and  Health:  The  Case  of  South  American  Rainforest  Indians  with  Spe- 
cial Reference  to  the  Shuar/Achuar  of  Ecuador.  Frankfurt:  Verlag  Peter 
Lang,  1982. 

Lernoux,  Penny.  Cry  of  the  People.  New  York:  Doubleday,  1980. 

Levy,  James,  and  Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.  "The  Challenge  to  Democratic 
Reformism  in  Ecuador,"  Studies  in  Comparative  International  De- 
velopment, 18,  No.  4,  Winter  1983,  3-33. 

Lipset,  Seymour  Martin,  and  Aldo  Solari  (eds.).  Elites  in  Latin  Amer- 
ica. New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1967. 


272 


Bibliography 


Lipski,  John  M.  "The  Chota  Valley:  Afro-Hispanic  Language  in 
Highland  Ecuador,"  Latin  American  Research  Review,  22,  No.  1, 
1987,  155-70. 

McKee,  Lauris.  "Ethnomedical  Treatment  of  Children's  Diarrheal 
Illnesses  in  the  Highlands  of  Ecuador,"  Social  Science  and  Medi- 
cine, 25,  No.  10,  1987,  1147-55. 

Martz,  John  D.  Ecuador:  Conflicting  Political  Culture  and  the  Quest  for 
Progress.  (The  Allyn  and  Bacon  Series  in  Latin  American  Poli- 
tics.) Boston:  Allyn  and  Bacon,  1972. 

Maynard,  Kent.  "On  Protestants  and  Pastoralists:  The  Segmen- 
tary Nature  of  Socio-Cultural  Organisation,"  Man,  23,  No.  1, 
March  1988,  101-17. 

Meier,  Peter  C.  "Continuity  and  Change  in  Peasant  Household 
Production:  The  Spinners  and  Knitters  of  Carabuela,  North- 
ern Ecuador,"  Canadian  Review  of  Sociology  and  Anthropology  [To- 
ronto], 21,  No.  4,  November  1984,  431-48. 

Middleton,  Alan.  "Division  and  Cohesion  in  the  Working  Class: 
Artisans  and  Wage  Laborers  in  Ecuador,  "Journal  of  Latin  Ameri- 
can Studies,  14,  Pt.  I,  May  1982,  171-94. 

Middleton,  De  Wight  R.  "Migration  and  Urbanization  in  Ecua- 
dor: A  View  from  the  Coast,"  Urban  Anthropology,  8,  No.  3/4, 
Winter  1979,  313-32. 

Moore,  Richard  J.  "Urban  Problems  and  Policy  Responses  for 
Metropolitan  Guayaquil."  Pages  181-203  in  Wayne  A.  Cor- 
nelius and  Robert  V.  Kemper  (eds.),  Metropolitan  Latin  America: 
The  Challenge  and  the  Response.  Beverly  Hills:  Sage,  1978. 

Pan  American  Health  Organization.  Evaluation  of  the  Strategy  for 
Health  for  All  by  the  Year  2000:  Seventh  Report  on  the  World  Health 
Situation.  Washington:  1986. 

 Health  Conditions  in  the  Americas,  1981-84.  Washington: 

1986. 

Preston,  David  A.  "Rural  Emigration  and  the  Future  of  Agricul- 
ture in  Ecuador."  Pages  195-208  in  D.A.  Preston  (ed.),  Environ- 
ment, Society,  and  Rural  Change  in  Latin  America.  Chichester:  Wiley 
and  Sons,  1980. 

Preston,  Rosemary.  "Nuclear  Schools  in  Rural  Ecuador,"  Geo- 
graphical Magazine,  54,  No.  9,  September  1982,  516-17. 

Redclift,  M.R.  Agrarian  Reform  and  Peasant  Organization  on  the  Ecua- 
dorian Coast.  London:  University  of  London,  Athlone  Press,  1978. 

Reid,  Richard  A.,  Karen  L.  Ruffing,  and  Howard  L.  Smith. 
"Managing  Medical  Supply  Logistics  among  Health  Workers 
in  Ecuador,"  Social  Science  and  Medicine,  22,  No.  1,  1986,  9-14. 

Rojas  M.,  Milton,  and  Gaitan  Villavicencio.  El  proceso  urbano  de 
Guayaquil,  1870-1980.  Quito:  ILDIS,  1988. 


273 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Ruiz  N.,  Jaime  (comp.).  Del  Vaticano  al  Ecuador:  Teologia  desde  America 
Latina.  Quito:  Fundacion  "Luis  Chusig,"  1984. 

Salomon,  Frank.  "Andean  Ethnology  in  the  1970s:  A  Retrospec- 
tive," Latin  American  Research  Review,  22,  No.  2,  1982,  75-128. 

 .  "Shamanism  and  Politics  in  Late-Colonial  Ecuador," 

American  Ethnologist,  10,  No.  3,  August  1983,  413-28. 

 "Weavers  of  Otalvalo."  Pages  463-94  in  Daniel  R.  Gross 

(ed.),  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  Native  South  America.  Garden  City, 
New  York:  Doubleday/The  Natural  History  Press,  1973. 

Scott,  Robert  E.  "Political  Elites  and  Political  Modernization:  The 
Crisis  of  Transition."  Pages  117-45  in  Seymour  Martin  Lipset 
and  Aldo  Solari  (eds.),  Elites  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1967. 

Silverman,  Marilyn.  "Agrarian  Processes  Within  'Plantation  Econ- 
omies': Cases  from  Guyana  and  Coastal  Ecuador,"  Canadian 
Review  of  Sociology  and  Anthropology  [Toronto],  24,  No.  4,  Novem- 
ber 1987,  550-70. 

Solari,  Aldo.  "Secondary  Education  and  the  Development  of 
Elites."  Pages  457-83  in  Seymour  Martin  Lipset  and  Aldo  Solari 
(eds.),  Elites  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1967. 

Sorensen,  Jr.,  Arthur  P.  "South  American  Indian  Linguistics  at 
the  Turn  of  the  Seventies."  Pages  312-41  in  Daniel  R.  Gross 
(ed.),  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  Native  South  America.  New  York: 
Doubleday/The  Natural  History  Press,  1973. 

Stornaiolo,  Ugo.  Anatomia  de  un  Pais  Latinoamericano:  El  Ecuador. 
Quito:  Ediciones  Culturales  BSM,  1989. 

United  States.  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  So- 
cial Security  Administration.  Office  of  Research,  Statistics,  and 
International  Policy.  "Social  Security  Programs  Throughout  the 
World-1985."  (Research  Report,  No.  60.)  Washington:  1986. 

Vinicio  Rueda,  Marco.  La  Fiesta  Religiosa  Campesina  (Andes  Ecua- 
torianos).  Quito:  Ediciones  de  la  Universidad  Catolica,  1982. 

Vining,  Jr.,  Daniel  R.  "The  Growth  of  Core  Regions  in  the  Third 
World,"  Scientific  American,  252,  No.  4,  April  1985,  42-49. 

Walter,  Lynn.  "Social  Strategies  and  the  Fiesta  Complex  in  an 
Otalvaleno  Community ,"  American  Ethnologist,  8,  No.  1,  February 
1981,  172-85. 

Walton,  John.  Elites  and  Economic  Development:  Comparative  Studies 
on  the  Political  Economy  of  Latin  American  Cities.  (Latin  American 
Monographs  Series,  Institute  of  Latin  American  Studies,  Univer- 
sity of  Texas.)  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1977. 
Weiss,  Wendy  A.  "The  Social  Organization  of  Property  and  Work: 
A  Study  of  Migrants  from  the  Rural  Ecuadorian  Sierra,"  Ameri- 
can Ethnologist,  12,  No.  3,  August  1985,  468-88. 


274 


Bibliography 


Whitten,  Jr.,  Norman  E.  Black  Frontiersmen:  A  South  American  Case. 

Cambridge:  Schenkman,  1974. 
 Class,  Kinship,  and  Power  in  an  Ecuadorian  Town:  The  Negroes 

of  San  Lorenzo.  Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1965. 
 Cultural  Transformations  and  Ethnicity  in  Modern  Ecuador.  Ur- 

bana:  University  of  Illinois  Press,  1981. 
 .  Sacha  Runa:  Ethnicity  and  Adaptation  of  Ecuadorian  Jungle 

Quichua.  Urbana:  University  of  Illinois  Press,  1976. 
 .  Sicuanga  Runa:  The  Other  Side  of  Development  in  Amazonian 

Ecuador.  Urbana:  University  of  Illinois  Press,  1985. 

Chapter  3 

Allen,  Geoffrey  (ed.).  Jane's  World  Railways,  1988-1989.  (13th  ed.) 
Coulsdon,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group, 
1988. 

Banco  Central  del  Ecuador.  Boletin  Anuario,  1987,  No.  10.  Quito: 
1988. 

Bethell,  Leslie  (ed.).  The  Cambridge  History  of  Latin  America,  3:  From 
Independence  to  c.  1870.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1985. 

Box,  Ben  (ed.).  1990  South  American  Handbook.  Suffolk,  United  King- 
dom: Trade  and  Travel,  1989. 

Bur  stein,  John,  and  Alfredo  Forti.  '  'Ecuador."  Pages  68-72  in  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  Review  1988.  Saffron  Walden,  Essex, 
United  Kingdom:  World  of  Information,  1988. 

Collier,  Simon  (ed.).  The  Cambridge  Encyclopedia  of  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

Conaghan,  Catherine  M.  "Ecuador  Swings  Toward  Social  Democ- 
racy," Current  History,  88,  No.  536,  March  1989,  137-41,  154. 

Diffie,  Bailey  W.  Latin  American  Civilization:  Colonial  Period.  New 
York:  Octagon  Books,  1967. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Ecuador,  1988-89.  Lon- 
don: 1988. 

 Ecuador:  Country  Report,  No.  4,  1990.  London:  1990. 

Ecuador.  Boletin  Anuario,  1988.  Quito:  1989. 

 Ministerio  de  Agricultura  y  Ganadena.  Estimacion  de  la 

superficie  cosechaday  de  laproduccion  agricola  delEduador,  1983  a  1985. 

Quito:  1989. 

"Ecuador:  The  Unmasking  of  President  Machismo,"  Latin  American 
Times  [London],  7,  No.  9,  January  13,  1987,  7-11. 

"Ecuador's  New  Maturity,"  World  Business  Weekly,  4,  September 
28,  1981,  29-37. 


275 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


The  Europa  World  Year  Book  1989,  1.  London:  Europa,  1989. 
Gill,  Lesley.  "Ecuador:  The  Lion's  Den,"  NACLA:  Report  on  the 

Americas,  21,  No.  1,  January-February  1987,  6-9. 
Haine,  Edgar.  Railways  Across  the  Andes.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Pruett, 

1981. 

The  Heritage  Foundation.  "Ecuador  as  a  Model  for  Latin  Ameri- 
can Development."  (No.  479.)  Washington:  January  10,  1986. 

Herring,  Hubert.  A  History  of  Latin  America:  From  the  Beginnings  to 
the  Present.  (3d  ed.)  New  York:  Knopf,  1968. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  International  Financial  Statistics,  43, 
No.  6.  Washington:  1990. 

Kaulkin,  Donna.  World  Aviation  Directory,  Summer  1989.  New  York: 
McGraw-Hill,  1989. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Ecuador."  Pages  579-600  in  George 
Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  1 .  (3d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Linke,  Lilo.  Ecuador:  Country  of  Contrasts.  (3d  ed.)  New  York:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1960. 

Martin,  Paul.  The  Airline  Handbook,  1983-84,  8.  Cranston,  Rhode 
Island:  Aerotravel  Research,  1983. 

Martino,  Orlando.  Mineral  Industries  of  Latin  America.  Washington: 
GPO,  1988. 

Martz,  John  D.  "Ecuador:  Authoritarianism,  Personalism,  and  De- 
pendency." Pages  381-402  in  Howard  J.  Wiarda  and  Harvey  F. 
Kline  (eds.),  Latin  American  Politics  and  Development.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

 "Ecuador:  The  Right  Takes  Command,"  Current  History, 

84,  No.  499,  February  1985,  69-72,  84. 

 "Instability  in  Ecuador,"  Current  History,  87,  No.  525, 

January  1988,  17-20,  37-38. 

Mardesic,  Vjekoslav  (ed.).  Estadisticas  del  Ecuador.  Quito:  Instituto 
Latinoamericano  de  Investigaciones  Sociales,  1988. 

McCaslin,  John  (ed.).  International  Petroleum  Encyclopedia,  1988. 
Tulsa,  Oklahoma:  Energy  Group  of  Penwell,  1988. 

Mendoza,  Luis.  Geo- Economta  del  Ecuador.  Guayaquil:  Nueva  Luz, 
1981. 

Official  Airline  Guide,  Worldwide  Edition,  August  1989,  14,  No.  8.  Oak 

Brook,  Illinois:  1989. 
Peek,  Peter.  Urban  Poverty,  Migration,  and  Land  Reform  in  Ecuador. 

Geneva:  United  Nations,  International  Labour  Office  (ILO), 

World  Employment  Programme,  1980. 
Schodt,  David  W.  "Austerity  Policies  in  Ecuador:  Christian 

Democratic  and  Social  Christian  Versions  of  the  Gospel."  Pages 

171-94  in  Howard  Handelman  and  Werner  Baer  (eds.),  Paying 


276 


Bibliography 


the  Costs  of  Austerity  in  Latin  America.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1989. 

 .  Ecuador:  An  Andean  Enigma.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 

Press,  1987. 

Sennitt,  Andrew  (ed.).  World  Radio  TV  Handbook,  1989.  Hvidovre, 

Denmark:  Billboard,  1989. 
Tremlett,  E.I.  (ed.).  Thomas  Cook  Overseas  Timetable,  March/ April 

1989.  Thorpe  Wood,  Peterborough,  United  Kingdom:  Thomas 

Cook,  1989. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1989.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

 .  Department  of  Agriculture.  Economic  Research  Service. 

"Ecuador."  Pages  79-81  in  Agricultural  Policy,  Trade,  Economic 
Growth,  and  Development.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

 .  Department  of  the  Army.  United  States  Southern  Com- 
mand, 361st  Civil  Affairs  Brigade.  Area  Assessment:  Ecuador.  Pen- 
sacola,  Florida:  1985. 

 Department  of  Commerce.  International  Trade  Adminis- 
tration. Foreign  Economic  Trends  and  Their  Implications  for  the  United 
States:  Ecuador.  (FET  89-52.)  Washington:  GPO,  May  1989. 

-  Department  of  Commerce.  Overseas  Business  Reports:  Mar- 
keting in  Ecuador.  Washington:  GPO,  June  1985. 

 Department  of  Labor.  Bureau  of  International  Labor  Af- 
fairs. Foreign  Labor  Trends,  Ecuador.  (FLT  88-26.)  Washington: 
GPO,  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  Ecuador.  Washington:  GPO,  October  1986. 

 Department  of  State.  Ecuador  Post  Report.  Washington: 

GPO,  1986. 

Valdivieso,  Susana.  Estadisticas  del  Ecuador.  Quito:  Instituto  Na- 

cional  de  Estadisticas  y  Censos,  1987. 
Veliz,  Claudio  (ed.).  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean:  A  Handbook. 

New  York:  Praeger,  1968. 
Wilkie,  James  W.,  and  Enrique  Ochoa  (eds.).  Statistical  Abstract  of 

Latin  America,  27.  Los  Angeles:  UCLA  Latin  American  Center, 

1989. 

World  Bank.  Current  Economic  Position  and  Prospects  of  Ecuador. 

Washington:  1973. 
Zumarraga,  Asuncion.  "South  America:  A  Statistical  Survey  of 

Ten  Countries."  (Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research 

Service,  Foreign  Affairs  and  National  Defense  Division,  No.  89- 

552F.)  Washington:  October  24,  1989. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Business  Latin  America;  Foreign 


277 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Latin  America;  Latin 
American  Monitor  [London] ;  and  Latin  American  Weekly  Report:  Ande- 
an Group  Report  [London].) 


Chapter  4 

Albornoz  Peralta,  Osvaldo.  Ecuador.  Quito:  El  Duende,  1989. 

Americas  Watch  and  the  Andean  Commission  of  Jurists.  Human 
Rights  in  Ecuador.  New  York:  Americas  Watch  Committee,  1988. 

Arboleda,  Maria,  Raul  Borja,  and  Jose  Steinsleger.  Mi  poder  en 
la  oposicidn.  Quito:  Editorial  El  Conejo,  1985. 

Avery,  William  P.  "Origins  and  Consequences  of  the  Border  Dis- 
pute Between  Ecuador  and  Peru,"  Inter-American  Economic  Af- 
fairs, 38,  No.  2,  Summer  1984,  65-77. 

Ayala  Mora,  Enrique.  Los  partidos  politicos  en  el  Ecuador:  Sintesis  his- 
torica.  Quito:  Ediciones  La  Tierra,  1986. 

Blanksten,  George  I.  Ecuador:  Constitutions  and  Caudillos.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California,  1951. 

Brownrigg,  Leslie  Ann.  "Interest  Groups  in  Regime  Changes  in 
Ecuador,"  Inter-American  Economic  Affairs,  28,  No.  1,  Summer 
1974,  3-18. 

Conaghan,  Catherine  M.  "Ecuador  Swings  Toward  Social  De- 
mocracy," Current  History,  88,  No.  536,  March  1989,  137-41, 
154. 

 "Ecuador:  The  Politics  of  Locos,"  Hemisphere,  1,  No.  1, 

Winter  1989,  13-15. 

 Restructuring  Domination:  Industrialists  and  the  State  in  Ecua- 
dor. Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pittsburgh  Press,  1988. 

Corkill,  David.  "Democratic  Politics  in  Ecuador,  1978-1984," 
Bulletin  of  Latin  American  Research  [London],  4,  No.  2,  1985,  63-74. 

Corkill,  David,  and  David  Cubitt.  Ecuador:  Fragile  Democracy.  Lon- 
don: Latin  American  Bureau,  1988. 

Cueva,  Agustin.  The  Process  of  Political  Domination  in  Ecuador.  New 
Brunswick,  New  Jersey:  Transaction  Books,  1982. 

"Ecuador."  Pages  1-37  in  Albert  P.  Blaustein  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz 
(eds.),  Constitutions  of  the  Countries  of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New 
York:  Oceana,  June  1987. 

"Ecuador."  Pages  934-50  in  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1987, 
1.  London:  Europa,  1987. 

Ferris,  Elizabeth  C,  and  Jennie  K.  Lincoln.  Latin  American  For- 
eign Policies:  Global  and  Regional  Dimensions.  (Westview  Special 
Studies  on  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.)  Boulder,  Colo- 
rado: Westview  Press,  1981. 


278 


Bibliography 


Fitzgibbon,  Russell  H.,  and  Julio  A.  Fernandez.  "Ecuador:  The 
Politics  of  National  Revolution."  Pages  177-90  in  Russell  H. 
Fitzgibbon  and  Julio  A.  Fernandez  (eds.),  Latin  America:  Politi- 
cal Culture  and  Development.  Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey: 
Prentice-Hall,  1981. 

Hurtado,  Osvaldo.  Political  Power  in  Ecuador.  (2d  ed.)  (Trans., 
Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Keesing's.  "The  Ecuador-Peru  Dispute."  Pages  367-71  in  Border 
and  Territorial  Disputes.  London:  Longman,  1982. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Ecuador."  Pages  579-600  in  George 
Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  1 .  (3d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Levy,  James,  and  Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.  "The  Challenge  to  Democratic 
Reformism  in  Ecuador,"  Studies  in  Comparative  International  De- 
velopment, 18,  No.  4,  Winter  1983,  3-33. 

Maldonado,  John.  Taura,  lo  que  no  se  ha  dicho.  Quito:  Editorial  El 
Conejo,  1988. 

Martz,  John  D.  "Ecuador:  Authoritarianism,  Personalism,  and  De- 
pendency." Pages  381-401  in  Howard  J.  Wiarda  and  Harvey  F. 
Kline  (eds.),  Latin  American  Politics  and  Development.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

 Ecuador:  Conflicting  Political  Culture  and  the  Quest  for  Progress. 

(The  Allyn  and  Bacon  Series  in  Latin  America  Politics.)  Boston: 
Allyn  and  Bacon,  1972. 

 "Ecuador:  The  Right  Takes  Command,"  Current  History, 

84,  No.  499,  February  1985,  69-72,  84-85. 

 "Instability  in  Ecuador,"  Current  History,  87,  No.  525, 

January  1988,  17-20,  37-38. 

 .  "Marxism  in  Ecuador,"  Inter-American  Economic  Affairs, 

33,  No.  2,  Summer  1979,  3-28. 

 .  The  Military  in  Ecuador.  (Occasional  Paper  Series,  No.  3.) 

Albuquerque:  Latin  American  Institute,  University  of  New  Mex- 
ico, 1988. 

 Politics  and  Petroleum  in  Ecuador.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jer- 
sey: Transaction  Books,  1987. 

 "Populist  Leadership  and  the  Party  Caudillo:  Ecuador  and 

the  CFP,  1962-81,"  Studies  in  Comparative  International  Develop- 
ment, 18,  No.  3,  Fall  1983,  22-49. 

 "The  Quest  for  Popular  Democracy  in  Ecuador,"  Cur- 
rent History,  78,  No.  454,  February  1980,  66-70,  84. 

Needier,  Martin  C.  "The  President  of  Ecuador,"  Contemporary 
Review  [London],  244,  No.  1417,  February  1984,  57-61. 

Ofia  Villarreal,  Humberto.  Presidentes  del  Ecuador.  Ibarra,  Ecuador: 
Pedidos  al  autor,  1986. 


279 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Ortiz  Crespo,  Gonzalo.  La  hora  del  general.  (Coleccion  Ecuador/Hoy 

Series.)  Quito:  Editorial  El  Conejo,  1986. 
Palmer,  David  Scott.  "Ecuador."  Pages  77-80  in  Richard  F.  Staar 

(ed.),  1985  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs:  Parties  and 

Revolutionary  Movements.  Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution 

Press,  1985. 

Rodriguez  Penaherrera,  Carlos  A.  Administracion  publica  ecuatoriana. 
Quito:  Instituto  Latinoamericano  de  Investigaciones  Sociales, 
1987. 

Saint-Geours,  Yves.  "Equateur  de  Leon  Febres  Cordero  a  Rodrigo 
Borja  (1984-1988),"  Problemes  dAmerique  Latine  [Paris],  89,  No.  3, 
1988,  3-28. 

Salgado  Pesantes,  Hernan.  Instituciones  Politicasy  Constitucion  del  Ec- 
uador. Quito:  Instituto  Latinoamericano  de  Investigaciones  So- 
ciales, 1987. 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.  "The  Politics  of  Transition."  Pages  3-25  in 
Howard  Handelman  and  Thomas  G.  Sanders  (eds.),  Military 
Government  and  the  Movement  Toward  Democracy  in  South  America. 
Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1981. 

Schodt,  David  W.  Ecuador:  An  Andean  Enigma.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1987. 

Spindler,  Frank  MacDonald.  Nineteenth  Century  Ecuador:  An  Histor- 
ical Introduction.  Fairfax,  Virginia:  George  Mason  University 
Press,  1987. 

United  States.  Congress.  101st,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee 
on  Foreign  Relations.  House  of  Representatives.  Committee  on 
Foreign  Affairs.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for  1988. 
Washington:  GPO,  February  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  Ecuador.  Washington:  GPO,  October  1986. 

Vanossi,  Jorge  Reinaldo,  et  al.  Legislacion  electoral  comparada:  Ar- 
gentina, Bolivia,  Brasil,  Chile,  Ecuador,  Paraguay,  Peru  y  Uruguay. 
San  Jose,  Costa  Rica:  Centro  Interamericano  de  Asesoria  y 
Promocion  Electoral  (CAPEL),  1988. 

Verdesoto  Custode,  Luis.  Certezas  e  incertidumbres  en  la  politica  ecua- 
toriana. Quito:  CIUDAD,  1990. 

Wolter,  Matilde.  "Ecuador:  Socialdemocracia  en  la  Mitad  del 
Mundo,"  Nueva  Sociedad  [San  Salvador],  No.  96,  July/ August 
1988,  8-10. 

Chapter  5 

Alexander,  Robert  J.  "Ecuador."  Pages  71-74  in  Richard  F.  Staar 
(ed.),  1988  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs.  Stanford, 
California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1988. 


280 


Bibliography 

Americas  Watch  and  the  Andean  Commission  of  Jurists.  Human 
Rights  in  Ecuador.  New  York:  Americas  Watch  Committee,  1988. 

Amnesty  International  Report,  1988.  London:  Amnesty  International, 
1988. 

Armada  del  Ecuador:  Una  Historia,  Una  Epopeya,  Un  Reto.  Quito: 
Secretana  de  la  Comandancia  General  de  Marina,  1981. 

Astudillo  Romero,  Jaime.  Mito y  Realidad  de  la  Seguridad  Nacional 
en  el  Ecuador.  Cuenca,  Ecuador:  Fondo  de  Cultura  Ecuatoriana, 
1981. 

Bahbah,  Bishara,  and  Linda  Butler.  Israel  and  Latin  America:  The 
Military  Connection.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1986. 

Bustamante,  Fernando.  "Fuerzas  Armadas  en  Ecuador:  ^Puede 
institucionalizarse  la  subordination  al  poder  civil?"  Pages  130-60 
in  Democraciay  Fuerzas  Armadas.  Quito:  Corporation  de  Estudios 
para  el  Desarrollo  (CORDES),  1988. 

Child,  Jack.  Geopolitics  and  Conflict  in  South  America:  Quarrels  among 
Neighbors.  New  York:  Praeger,  1985. 

DMS  Market  Intelligence  Report:  South  America/ Australasia.  Greenwich, 
Connecticut:  Defense  Marketing  Services,  1989. 

"Ecuador."  Pages  265-68  in  Gregory  R.  Copley  (ed.),  Defense  and 
Foreign  Affairs  Handbook  1987-88.  Washington:  Perth,  1987. 

English,  Adrian  J.  Armed  Forces  of  Latin  America:  Their  Histories,  De- 
velopment, Present  Strength,  and  Military  Potential.  London:  Jane's, 
1984. 

"Equatorial  Wings:  Ecuador  Hones  Its  Top  Cover,"  Air  Interna- 
tional [London],  28,  No.  1,  January  1985,  14-23. 

Fitch,  John  Samuel.  The  Military  Coup  d'Etat  as  a  Political  Process: 
Ecuador,  1948-1966.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press, 
1977. 

Hurtado,  Osvaldo.  Political  Power  in  Ecuador.  (2d  ed.)  (Trans., 
Nick  D.  Mills,  Jr.)  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

International  Air  Forces  and  Military  Aircraft  Directory.  Stapleford  Air- 
field, Essex,  England:  Aviation  Advisory  Services,  1989. 

Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1988-89.  (Ed.,  Captain  Richard  Sharpe.)  Lon- 
don: Jane's,  1988. 

Keegan,John,  and  Adrian  English.  "Ecuador."  Pages  158-61  in 
John  Keegan  (ed.),  World  Armies.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  World  Encyclopedia  of  Police  Forces  and  Penal 
Systems.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1989. 

Looney,  Robert  E.  The  Political  Economy  of  Latin  American  Defense 
Expenditures:  Case  Studies  of  Venezuela  and  Argentina.  Lexington,  Mas- 
sachusetts: Lexington  Books,  1986. 

Martz,  John  D.  "Instability  in  Ecuador,"  Current  History,  87, 
No.  525,  January  1988,  17-20,  37-38. 


281 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


 The  Military  in  Ecuador:  Policies  and  Politics  of  Authoritarian 

Rule.  (Occasional  Paper  Series,  No.  3.)  Albuquerque:  Latin 
American  Institute,  University  of  New  Mexico,  1988. 

The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989.  International  Institute  for  Stra- 
tegic Studies,  London:  1988. 

Ortiz  Crespo,  Gonzalo.  La  Hora  del  General.  Quito:  Editorial  El 
Conejo,  1986. 

Schodt,  David  W.  Ecuador:  An  Andean  Enigma.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1987. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers  1988.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

 .  Congress.  100th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Narcotics  Review  in  South  America. 
Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 Congress.  101st,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  House  of  Representatives.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Affairs.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for  1988. 
Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

 Department  of  Defense.  Terrorist  Group  Prof iles .  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  Ecuador.  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Varas,  Au gusto.  Militarization  and  the  International  Arms  Race  in  Latin 
America.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  El  Comercio  [Quito];  Keesing's  Record 
of  World  Events  [London] ;  Latin  American  Monitor;  Latin  American  Times 
[London];  and  Latin  American  Weekly  Reports:  Andean  Group  Report 
[London].) 


282 


Glossary 


fiscal  year  (FY) — Calendar  year. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during 
a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value 
contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits, 
compensation  to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of 
capital).  The  income  arising  from  investments  and  possessions 
owned  abroad  is  not  included,  only  domestic  production. 
Hence,  the  use  of  the  word  domestic  to  distinguish  GDP  from 
GNP 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Total  market  value  of  all  final  goods 
and  services  produced  by  an  economy  during  a  year.  Obtained 
by  adding  GDP  (q.  v.)  and  the  income  received  from  abroad 
by  residents  less  payments  remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents. 

import  substitution — An  economic  development  strategy  that  em- 
phasizes the  growth  of  domestic  industries,  often  by  import  pro- 
tection using  tariff  and  nontariff  measures.  Proponents  favor 
the  export  of  industrial  goods  over  primary  products. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  takes  responsibility  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 
main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers when  they  experience  balance-of-payments  difficulties. 
These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  in- 
ternal economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 

sucre  (S/) — The  national  currency.  From  1971  to  1981,  the  sucre 
was  pegged  to  the  United  States  dollar  at  S/25  =  US$1 .  Because 
this  rate  overvalued  the  sucre  and  dampened  exports,  the 
government  allowed  a  steady  devaluation  of  the  currency 
throughout  the  first  half  of  the  1980s.  By  1985,  the  official  ex- 
change rate  averaged  S/69  =  US$1 .  In  August  1986,  President 
Leon  Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra  (1984-88)  transferred  all 
private  sector  transactions  to  the  higher  free  market  rate  and 
determined  to  close  the  gap  between  that  rate  and  the  official 
intervention  rate  through  regular  currency  adjustments.  The 
official  rate  averaged  S/123  =  US$1  in  1986  and  S/170  =  US$1 
in  1987.  Responding  to  growing  external  indebtedness,  capi- 
tal flight,  and  rising  inflation,  the  free  market  rate  climbed  to 
S/400  =  US$1  by  March  1988.  In  response,  Febres  Cordero 


283 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 

established  a  controlled  rate  for  imports  and  exports  and  limited 
movement  to  within  10  percent  of  the  prevailing  official  rate 
of  S/250  =  US$1.  As  was  the  case  in  the  early  1980s,  the  se- 
verely overvalued  official  currency  (the  free  market  rate  climbed 
to  S/550  =  US41  by  July  1988)  hindered  export  activity.  Upon 
assuming  the  presidency  in  August  1988,  Rodrigo  Borja  Cevallos 
(1988-  )  devalued  the  controUed  rate  to  S/390  =  US$1  and 
adopted  a  program  to  further  devalue  the  currency  by  30  per- 
cent per  year.  In  May  1989,  Borja  accelerated  this  program  to 
nearly  40  percent  per  year.  Consequently,  the  official  rate  aver- 
aged S/526  =  US$1  and  had  closed  to  within  6  percent  of  the 
free  market  rate. 

terms  of  trade — Number  of  units  that  must  be  given  up  for  one 
unit  of  goods  received  by  each  party  (e.g.,  nation)  to  a  trans- 
action. The  terms  of  trade  are  said  to  move  in  favor  of  the  party 
that  gives  up  fewer  units  of  goods  than  it  did  previously  for 
one  unit  of  goods  received,  and  against  the  party  that  gives 
up  more  units  of  goods  for  one  unit  of  goods  received.  In  in- 
ternational economics,  the  concept  of  "terms  of  trade"  plays 
an  important  role  in  evaluating  relationships  between  nations. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but 
administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to 
furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  eas- 
ier terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  specifically  designed  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  devel- 
oped countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the 
IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  three  institu- 
tions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  sub- 
scribe their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — q. v.). 


284 


Index 


ACDA.  See  United  States  Arms  Control 

and  Disarmament  Agency 
Acosta  Velasco,  Jorge,  41 
acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 

(AIDS),  99 
Administration,  directorate  of,  166 
Advanced  Naval  Academy,  223 
Advanced  Technical  Institute  of  the  Armed 

Forces,  220 
Advanced  Training  Institute,  219 
Agencia  EFE,  141 

Agency  for  International  Development, 
198 

agrarian  reform,  67,  111,  121-22,  181, 
212;  under  Borja,  111;  effect  of,  on 
migration,  70;  problems  with,  54,  76- 
78 

Agrarian  Reform  Law,  xxii,  37,  121 
agricultural  exports,  23-24,  124 
agricultural  products  {see  also  under  in- 
dividual crops),  123-28 
agriculture,  103,  120-30;  effect  of,  on 
economy,  108;  as  employer,  118;  irri- 
gation, 123;  methods,  122-23;  under 
Spanish  colonial  era,  14 
AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome 

air  force  (FAE)  {see  also  paratroops):  ad- 
vanced training,  223;  air  zones,  224; 
combat  aircraft,  223-24;  components 
of,  207;  emergency  relief  efforts  of,  233; 
influence  of  United  States  on,  223;  jet 
training,  225;  military  materiel  acquired 
for,  223;  origins  of,  223;  paratroop 
squadron,  224;  personnel  strength,  224; 
revolt,  185;  safety  record,  224;  training 
aircraft,  223 

Air  Force  Academy,  225 

airlines,  144 

airtransport,  143-44;  inOriente,  144;  be- 
tween Quito  and  Guayaquil,  144 
Air  War  College,  225 
Albemarle  Island  (Isabela  Island),  58 
alfaristas,  26 

Alfarist  Radical  Front  (FRA),  183,  187 
Alfaro  Delgado,  Jose  Eloy,  xxii,  xxiv,  24, 
180,  238;  affinity  of,  for  United  States, 
26;  Catholic  resistance  to,  25-26;  civil 


war  in  reaction  to,  25-26;  constitution 
under,  158;  death  of,  27;  involvement 
of,  in  government,  158;  political  pro- 
gram of,  25;  rivalry  with  Plaza,  27 

Alfaro  Lives,  Damnit!  (AVC),  188; 
crimes  committed  by,  246;  described, 
238;  terrorist  activities  of,  237-38 

Almargo,  Diego  de,  7;  execution  of,  11; 
strained  relations  with  Pizarro,  8 

Alvarado,  Pedro  de,  9,  10 

Amaluza  electric  complex,  133 

Amazon  Pact,  200 

Amazon  River,  58,  59,  202;  etymology 
of,  10;  Orellana's  journey  on,  10;  Ama- 
zon River  Basin,  12,  54;  colonization 
of,  88;  development  of,  200;  dispute 
over,  with  Peru,  202,  207,  209 

Ambato,  17 

Americas  Watch,  243,  247 

Andlisis  Semanal,  197 

Andean  Commission  of  Jurists,  243,  247 

Andean  Common  Market,  46,  134 

Andean  Pact,  200 

Andes  Mountains,  5,  10,  54,  132;  agricul- 
ture in,  14;  migration  to,  67-68;  as 
natural  boundary,  12 

Andrade,  Arsenio,  26 

AP.  See  Popular  Alliance 

APRE.  See  Ecuadorian  Revolutionary 
Popular  Alliance 

Archipielago  de  Colon.  See  Galapagos 
Islands 

Argentina,  202;  emergency  assistance  of, 
233;  as  member  of  Lima  group,  200; 
military  aid  of,  to  Guayaquil  rebellion, 
17;  and  Rio  Protocol,  26,  36 

argolla,  la:  decline  of,  27-28;  description 
of,  27;  functions  of,  29 

Arias  de  Avila,  Pedro,  7 

armed  forces.  See  military 

army:  armored  vehicles,  218-19;  basic 
training,  219;  combat  brigades,  217; 
components  of,  207;  defense  zones  of, 
217;  in  1830,  209;  infantry  weapons, 
217-18;  intervention  of,  in  politics, 
xxiv-xxv,  212;  NCO  schools,  41,  219; 
officer  schools,  219-20;  operational 
units  of,  217;  personnel  strength  of,  217 


285 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Army  Agrarian  Military  Conscription 

(CAME),  227 
Army  Industries,  Directorate  of  (Dine), 

213,  236 

Army  Polytechnic  Institute  (Espe),  220 
Army  War  Academy,  219,  233 
ARNG.  See  Ecuadorian  Nationalist  Rev- 
olutionary Action 
Arosemena  Gomez,  Otto,  40,  42,  183 
Arosemena  Monroy,  Carlos  Julio,  36,  37, 
189;  background  of,  36;  deposed,  37, 
212;  relations  with  Cuba  maintained 
by,  37 

Arroyo  del  Rio,  Carlos  Alberto,  30-31, 
33;  opposition  to,  31;  resignation  of,  31 
artisan  firms,  80,  134,  136 
artisans,  xxi,  54;  described,  80 
Asia,  244 

Associated  Press,  141 
Association  of  Agriculturists  of  Ecuador, 
27 

Atahualpa,  6;  defeat  of  Huascar  by,  6;  ex- 
ecution of,  by  Pizarro,  9;  execution  of 
Huascar  by,  9;  massacre  of  defenders 
of,  9;  meeting  of,  with  Pizarro,  8-9 

attorney  general,  174 

audiencia,  11,  13,  14 

austerity  measures,  xxiv,  107,  113,  146; 
under  Borja,  111;  effect  of,  150;  failure 
of,  149;  under  Febres  Cordero,  115; 
under  Hurtado,  194;  reaction  to,  111, 
237 

autogestional  sector,  44 
autogolpe,  41;  defined,  40;  by  Velasco,  40 
AVC.  See  Alfaro  Lives,  Damnit! 
Avenue  of  the  Volcanos,  57 
ayllu:  defined,  6;  described,  6 
Ayora,  Isidro,  29;  reforms  under,  28 
Azuay  Province,  157,  180;  archaeologi- 
cal sites  in,  4 


Babahoyo,  23,  143 

Babahoyo  River,  58 

Baker,  James  A.  Ill,  199 

Baker  Plan  (1986),  199 

balance  of  payments,  108,  150-51 

Balao,  145 

Balboa,  Vasco  Nunez  de,  7 

banana  boom,  xxiii,  4,  34,  46,  123; 

benefit  of,  to  Guayaquil,  69,  70,  71; 

end  of,  35;  politically  stabilizing  effect 

of,  34 


Banana  Fleet,  145 

bananas,  104,  105,  120,  123;  export  of, 

145;  production  patterns  for,  123-24; 

value  of,  149 
banking  system:  structure  of,  137 
Bank  of  America,  138 
Bank  of  London  and  South  America.  See 

Lloyd's  Bank 
Bank  of  Pichincha,  138 
banks,  commercial,  138 
Bank  Superintendency:  function  of,  137 
Banos  del  Inca,  9 
Baquerizo  Moreno,  Alfredo,  27 
Barco  Vargas,  Virgilio,  201 
Belgium:  military  materiel  bought  from, 

236 

Benalcazar,  Sebastian  de,  8;  conquest  of 
Ruminahui  by,  9;  siege  of  Quito  by,  10 

benefits,  fringe,  119 

BEV.  See  Ecuadorian  Housing  Bank 

blacks,  84,  86-87;  in  the  Costa,  53;  dis- 
crimination against,  161;  ethnic  mobil- 
ity of,  87;  occupations  of,  86-87;  origins 
of,  53,  86;  as  percentage  of  population, 
83 

Bogota,  18,  104;  constitution  (1830),  157 

Bolivar  Palacios,  Simon,  17,  208,  220; 
death  of,  19;  and  formation  of  Con- 
federation of  Gran  Colombia,  18;  war 
of  liberation  in  Peru,  18 

Bolivia,  24,  64,  103;  as  signer  of  Carta- 
gena Agreement,  200;  narcotics  traf- 
fickers from,  244;  as  signer  of  Andean 
Pact,  200 

Bonaparte,  Joseph,  16,  17 

Bonaparte,  Napoleon:  invasion  of  Spain 
by,  16 

Bonifaz  Ascazubi,  Neptali,  29 

Borja  Cevallos,  Rodrigo,  48,  111,  155, 
156,  184,  186-87,  202;  budget  deficit 
under,  115;  cabinet  of,  165;  campaign 
promises  of,  111;  debt  refinancing  by, 
146;  Democratic  Left  party  formed  by, 
182;  economic  stabilization  program, 
116;  economic  strategies  of,  103,  111, 
155,  200,  231;  foreign  policy  of,  198, 
201;  government  of,  187-88;  media 
under,  196;  pardon  of  paratroopers  by, 
187-88 

Borrero,  Antonio,  24 

Bourbon  kings:  boundary  changes  under, 
15-16;  reforms  of,  15 

Brady,  Nicolas,  199 


286 


Index 


Brady  Plan,  199 

Brazil,  42;  emergency  assistance  of,  233; 
as  member  of  Lima  group,  200;  mili- 
tary materiel  from,  218;  and  Rio  Pro- 
tocol, 26,  36,  202 

Britain:  military  materiel  purchased  from, 
222,  223-24,  236,  237 

Broad  Left  Front  (FADI),  182,  185,  186, 
187,  239 

Bucaram  Elmhalim,  Asaad,  41,  42,  44, 
183,  190;  rivalry  of,  with  Roldos,  46- 
47 

Bucaram  Ortiz,  Abdala,  183,  186,  196 

budget:  expenditures,  114-15;  for  1989, 
114-15;  process,  117;  process,  prob- 
lems with,  117; 

Buenaventura,  12 

buses,  143 

Bush,  George,  244 

bus  lines,  143 

cabildo,  11 

Cabo  San  Lorenzo,  54 
Cajamarca,  8,  9 
Calderon  Munoz,  Abdon,  45 
Cali,  12 

CAME.  See  Army  Agrarian  Military  Con- 
scription 

Canar  Province:  archaeological  sites  in,  4 
Canari  Indians,  5;  aid  to  conquistadors 
by,  9 

cantons:  council,  174;  elections,  174;  gov- 
erned by,  174 

Cara  Indians,  5 

Caracas,  Venezuela,  199 

Carchi  Province,  74;  archaeological  sites 
in,  4;  blacks  in,  84 

Caribbean:  countries  as  trading  partners, 
150 

cars,  143 

Cartagena  Agreement,  201 

Cartagena  Group,  200 

Carta  Negra.  See  Constitution  of  1861 

Carter,  Jimmy,  45,  236 

Castilla,  Ramon,  21 

Castro  Ruz,  Fidel,  36,  200,  201 

Catholic  Church,  Roman,  232;  under  Al- 
faro,  25,  26;  under  Garcia  Moreno, 
22-23,  158;  membership  in,  as  requi- 
site for  citizenship,  158;  organization 
of,  94;  role  of,  xxii,  93,  188;  support 
of,  for  social  change,  93,  189 


Catholic  Federation  of  Workers  (CCO), 
194 

Catholics,  Roman,  192;  bureaucracies  of, 
12;  social  structure  among,  94,  96 

Catholicism,  Roman:  as  exclusive 
religion,  22;  under  Garcia  Moreno, 
22-23;  practice  of,  94;  as  predominant 
religion,  161;  as  state  religion,  157, 
158;  as  unifier  of  Ecuador,  22 

Cauca  Province,  19 

Cayambe,  Mount,  57 

Cayambe  Province,  74 

Cayapa  Indians,  84 

CCO.  See  Catholic  Federation  of  Workers 

Cedhu.  See  Ecumenical  Commission  of 
Human  Rights 

CEDOC.  See  Ecuadorian  Federation  of 
Classist  Organizations 

CEDOCUT.  See  Ecuadorian  Federation 
of  Classist  Organizations  for  Workers' 
Unity 

Center  of  Naval  Instruction,  222 

Central  Bank  of  Ecuador,  29,  116;  deval- 
uation of  sucre  by,  116;  functions  of, 
115,  137-38;  ownership  of,  137-38; 
structure  of,  137-38 

Central  University,  40,  96,  187,  195 

CEOSL.  See  Ecuadorian  Confederation  of 
Free  Trade  Union  Organizations 

CEPE.  See  Ecuadorian  State  Petroleum 
Corporation 

CFN.  See  National  Financial  Corporation 

CFP.  See  Concentration  of  Popular  Forces 

Chamber  of  Deputies,  30,  157,  159;  elec- 
tions to,  166;  gun  battle  in,  36;  repre- 
sentation in,  158 

Chambo  River,  59 

Chargas'  disease,  99 

Charles  I:  authorization  by,  of  Pizarro's 
third  voyage,  8 

Charles  III,  15 

Charles  IV,  16 

childhood  mortality,  98-99;  causes,  99; 
rate,  98 

Chile,  6,  24,  36,  202;  military  influence 
of,  233;  as  signer  of  Andean  Pact,  200; 
as  signer  of  Cartagena  Agreement,  200 

Chimborazo,  Mount,  9,  57 

Chimborazo  Province,  74,  93;  archaeo- 
logical sites  in,  4;  poverty  in,  78 

China,  24,  202 

cholos:  defined,  16,  53;  family  and  kin, 
90-92;  as  percentage  of  population,  83 


287 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Christian  and  Missionary  Alliance,  94 
Christian  Democratic  Association,  182 
Christian  Democratic  International,  183 
Christian  Democratic  Party  (PDC),  44, 
182,  187 

Christianity:  conversion  of  Indians  to,  13, 
94;  Protestant  (see  also  under  individual 
denominations),  94-96 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day 
Saints  (Mormon  Church),  94 

CID.  See  Democratic  Institutional  Coa- 
lition 

Citibank,  138 

cities:  growth  rates  of,  68 

citizenship:  under  Constitution  of  1979, 
160;  requirements  for,  157,  158 

civic  action,  233 

civilian  authority:  conflict  of,  with  cleri- 
cal authority,  156-57 
civil  defense,  232-33;  structure,  232 
Civil  Defense,  National  Directorate  of, 
215 

civil  war:  of  1895,  25;  of  1911,  27;  of 

1932,  29 
class:  basis  of,  69 

clerical  authority:  conflict  of,  with  civilian 
authority,  156-57 

CNT.  See  National  Coordinator  of  Work- 
ers 

Coastal  Prison,  246,  247 
coast  guard,  222 
Coca  River,  10,  59 

cocoa,  120,  123;  production,  124;  revenue 
from,  110;  value  of,  149 

cocoa  boom  (see  also  cocoa,  cocoa  indus- 
try), xxiii,  4,  23,  24,  46,  67,  76,  104; 
decline,  105;  immigration  initiated  by, 
67 

cocoa  industry:  decline  in,  28,  29 
coffee,  120,  123;  export  of,  145;  produc- 
tion, 124;  revenue  from,  110;  value  of, 
149 

Colombia,  10,  12,  19,  54,  59,  131,  132, 
143,  201,  208;  in  Gran  Colombia,  18; 
narcotics  traffickers  from,  207,  211,  244; 
relations  with,  211;  repulsion  of  attack 
by,  209;  as  signer  of  Andean  Pact,  200; 
as  signer  of  Cartagena  Agreement,  200; 
telephone  service,  139,  140;  terrorism  in, 
237 

colonization,  79,  88 
Colorado  Indians,  84 
commerce:  employment  in,  118 


Commercial  and  Agricultural  Bank  of 

Guayaquil:  influence  of,  27 
Commercial   Associations,    166,  169, 

172-73 

Committee  of  Young  Christians  for  Chris- 
tian Civilization,  93-94 

Communist  International,  182 

Communist  Party  of  Ecuador — Marxist- 
Leninist  (PCE-ML),  182,  193,  239 

compadres,  92 

compadrazgo:  defined,  82,  92;  as  patron- 
client  relationship,  92;  selecting  compadres 
for,  92 

comptroller  general,  174 

Conade.  See  National  Development  Coun- 
cil 

Conaghan,  Catherine  M.,  184,  186 

Conaie.  See  Confederation  of  Indigenous 
Nationalities  of  Ecuador 

Concentration  of  Popular  Forces  (CFP), 
34,  41,  46,  183,  187 

concierto  peon,  74 

Condor  mountain  range,  202 

Confederation  of  Ecuadorian  Workers 
(CTE),  192,  194,  239;  activities  of,  193; 
members  of,  193 

Confederation  of  Indigenous  Nationalities 
of  Ecuador  (Conaie),  194 

Conference  of  Foreign  Ministers  of  the 
American  Republics,  Third,  31 

Confiec.  See  Ecuadorian  Development  Fi- 
nance Company 

Congress,  National,  46,  156,  184,  215, 
236;  appointments  by,  169,  170,  172; 
budgetary  role  of,  117,  169-70;  in  Con- 
stitution of  1945,  159;  in  Constitution 
of  1979,  160,  166;  dissolved  by  Velasco, 
30,  191;  elections  to,  166;  extraordinary 
sessions  of,  165,  170;  judicial  involve- 
ment with,  171;  powers  of,  163,  168-70; 
prosecution  by,  169;  responsibilities  of, 
162,  167-68;  restrictions  on  members  of, 
166-67;  sessions  of,  167;  threat  to  im- 
peach Febres  Cordero,  xxv,  214 

conscription  system,  207,  226-30;  attitude 
toward,  227 

Conservative  Party  (PC),  184,  188;  back- 
ground of,  180;  establishment  of,  23, 
180 

Conservatives,  3,  35,  184;  struggle  of, 

against  Liberals,  20,  156,  157 
Consolidation  of  National  Workers,  29 
Constituent  Assembly,  159 


288 


Index 


constitution  of  1830,  18;  described,  157 
constitution  of  1843,  20 
constitution  of  1861,  158 
constitution  of  1897,  158 
constitution  of  1906,  158 
constitution  of  1929:  provisions  of,  29, 

158-59;  social  legislation  under,  29 
constitution  of  1945,  159;  freedom  of 

religion  under,  93;  reinstated,  160 
constitution  of  1946,  159;  components  of, 

159 

constitution  of  1967,  159-60;  reforms 
under,  190;  suspended,  160 

Constitution  of  1979,  xxv,  3,  44,  173,  195; 
amendments  to,  161,  173,  175;  Article 
37,  178;  Congress  in,  166;  economy 
under,  111;  freedom  of  religion  under, 
93;  innovations  in,  160-61;  military 
service  under,  226;  National  Police 
under,  239;  political  parties  under,  177, 
178;  public  defender  under,  245;  Pub- 
lic Forces  under,  215;  vice  president 
under,  165 

construction  boom,  82 

construction  industry,  136 

Contadora  Group,  201 

Contadora  Island,  201 

Contentious  Administrative  Tribunal 
(TCA),  168,  169,  170,  171,  172 

Continental  Bank,  138 

Cooperative  Bank  of  Ecuador.  See  De- 
velopment Bank  of  Ecuador 

Cordero  Crespo,  Luis:  as  president,  24; 
resignation  of,  24 

Cordillera  Costanera,  57,  60 

Cordillera  Occidental,  5;  described,  57 

Cordillera  Oriental,  5,  57,  58;  crossing  of, 
by  Pizarro,  10;  described,  57 

Cordova,  Gonzalo  S.,  27;  ties  of,  with  la 
argolla,  28 

Corkill,  David,  162 

Cortes,  Hernan,  8 

Costa,  58,  180,  190;  agriculture  in,  78, 
104,  122-23,  124,  126,  128;  climate  of, 
59;  cocoa  boom  in,  76;  as  economic 
center,  104;  death  of  inhabitants  of,  by 
European  diseases,  13-14;  described, 
54-57;  elite  in,  53,  71;  emergency  relief 
in,  234;  food  processing  in,  136;  for- 
estry in,  130;  highway  transportation 
through,  143;  land  reform  in,  72;  land 
tenure  in,  121,  122;  land  use  in,  120; 
lifestyle  of,  71;  livestock  raising  in, 


128-29;  migration  to,  from  Sierra,  54, 
67,  68-70,  84;  petroleum  activity  in, 
131;  politics  in,  156,  157,  181;  popula- 
tion of,  67;  rainfall  in,  60;  regionalism 
of,  3;  and  Sierra,  economic  distinction 
between,  71,  103;  temperatures  in,  560; 
universities  in,  96 

Costa  Externa,  57;  rivers  in,  58 

Costa  Interna,  57;  climate  of,  60-61; 
Guayas  River  system  in,  58,  58;  tem- 
peratures in,  61 

Costa  Social  Development,  Directorate  of, 
166 

costenos,  67 

Cotopaxi  Air  Base,  225 
Cotopaxi,  Mount,  57,  59 
cotton,  104,  127 

Council  of  the  Indies:  described,  11 

Council  of  Ministers,  159 

Council  of  State,  157,  158,  159,  160,  171 

Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for 
1987  (United  States  Department  of 
State),  243,  245,  247 

coups  d'etat:  of  1834,  19-20;  of  1851,  21; 
of  1875,  24;  of  1906,  xxiv,  27;  of  1925, 
28,  180;  of  1931,  29;  of  1947,  33;  of 
1961,  36;  of  1963,  37,  212;  of  1972,  41, 
160;  of  1976,  43,  160,  213 

courts,  lower,  172 

court  system,  171,  172,  244;  plenary  pro- 
ceedings, 245;  summary  proceedings, 
245 

crafts:  as  income  supplement,  78 

crime:  causes  of,  246;  rate  of,  246;  statis- 
tics on,  246 

criollos,  xxi;  defined,  16;  effect  of  indepen- 
dence on,  19 

CTE.  See  Confederation  of  Ecuadorian 
Workers 

Cuba,  238;  political  relations  with,  37,  38, 

200;  relations  severed  with,  189 
Cuban  Revolution,  36,  195 
Cucuta  constitution  (1821),  157 
Cuenca,  5,  12,  120,  133;  defense  zone 
headquarters,  217;  growth  of,  70;  high- 
way to,  143;  National  Police  headquar- 
ters in,  242;  politics  in,  180;  radio  in, 
140;  rail  service  to,  142;  television  sta- 
tions, 141 
curaca:  defined,  6 
curanderos,  89 

current-account  balance,  150 
Customs  Police,  242 


289 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Cuzco,  Peru,  5,  6,  9;  capture  of,  by  Span- 
ish, 9 
Czechoslovakia,  37 

Daule  River,  58,  143 
death,  causes  of,  99 
Decentralized  Planning,  Directorate  of, 
166 

Decentralized  Planning,  Undersecretariat 
of,  166 

defense  budget,  230-32;  estimated,  231; 

expenditures  per  capita,  231-32;  oil 

revenues  for,  231;  trends  in,  231 
Democratic  Alliance,  31-33 
Democratic  Left  (ID),  44,  111,  184,  186; 

formed  by  Borja,  182 
Democratic    Institutionalist  Coalition 

(CID),  183 
Democratic  Popular  Movement  (MPD), 

186,  187,  239 
Depression,  Great,  xxiii,  28,  29,  124 
de  Soto,  Hernando,  9 
Deutsche-Press-Agentur,  141 
Development  Bank  of  Ecuador  (Bede), 

138;  role  of,  138 
Dine.  See  Army  Industries,  Directorate  of 
discovery  of  Ecuador,  7-8 
DP.  See  Popular  Democracy 
Duarte,  Angel,  186 
Duran  Ballen,  Sixto,  44,  45,  186 


earthquake  of  1987,  136,  199;  economic 
impact  of,  113,  129,  148;  emergency  as- 
sistance following,  232-33,  234-36; 
pipeline  destroyed  by,  xxiv,  104,  11, 
130,  146,  148 

economic  crisis,  47-48;  efforts  to  correct, 
48 

economic  growth,  46;  contribution  of 
petroleum  to,  106;  negative  side  effects 
of,  107 

economic  history,  3-4 

Economic  Planning,  Undersecretariat  of, 
166 

economy,  colonial:  basis  of,  69;  depres- 
sion of,  in  eighteenth  century,  14-15; 
instability  of,  104 

economy,  modern:  approaches  to  restor- 
ing, 103;  decline,  in,  107;  effect  of  oil 
prices  on,  148;  effect  of  stabilization 
program  on,  116-17;  expansion  of, 


105;  government  regulation  of,  119; 
recovery  in,  108;  stabilization  program, 
107,  116 

Ecuadorian  Aviation  Company.  See  Ecu- 
atoriana 

Ecuadorian  Communist  Party  (PCE), 
182,  238 

Ecuadorian  Confederation  of  Free  Trade 
Union  Organizations  (CEOSL),  193- 
94;  membership  in,  193-94 

Ecuadorian  Democratic  Alliance,  159 

Ecuadorian  Development  Finance  Com- 
pany (Confiec),  138 

Ecuadorian  Federation  of  Classist  Or- 
ganizations (CEDOC),  192,  194;  ac- 
tivities of,  192;  membership  of,  193 

Ecuadorian  Federation  of  Classist 
Organizations  for  Workers'  Unity 
(CEDOCUT),  193 

Ecuadorian  Federation  of  Peasant  Or- 
ganizations (FEDOC),  193 

Ecuadorian  Housing  Bank  (BEV),  138; 
role  of,  138 

Ecuadorian  Indian  Federation  (FEI),  193 

Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Agrarian  Reform 
and  Settlement  (IERAC),  79,  121-22 

Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Electrification 
(Inecel),  112,  134 

Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Hydraulic  Re- 
sources (Inerhi),  123 

Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Minerals  (Ine- 
min),  133 

Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Telecommunica- 
tions (Ietel),  112,  140 

Ecuadorian  Military  Air  Transport 
(TAME),  224,  236 

Ecuadorian  National  Board  of  Planning 
and  Economic  Coordination,  123 

Ecuadorian  Nationalist  Revolutionary  Ac- 
tion (ARNE),  35,  182,  184 

Ecuadorian  Petroleum  Fleet,  145 

Ecuadorian  Revolutionary  Popular  Alli- 
ance (APRE),  185 

Ecuadorian  Roldosist  Party  (PRE),  183, 
186 

Ecuadorian  Ship  Transport,  145 
Ecuadorian  Socialist  Party  (PSE),  182 
Ecuadorian  Social  Security  Institute,  97, 

232;  coverage,  99-100;  programs  of,  99 
Ecuadorian  State  Petroleum  Corporation 

(CEPE)  (see  also  Petroecuador),  42,  43; 

control  of,  by  military,  213 
Ecuatoriana,  144,  224,  236 


290 


Index 


Ecumenical  Commission  of  Human 
Rights  (Cedhu):  human  rights  com- 
plaints investigated  by,  242;  statistics 
on  police  brutality,  243 

Editoral  Claridad,  197 

education,  96-97;  cycles  of,  96;  expansion 
in  opportunities  for,  96-97;  under  Gar- 
cia Moreno,  23;  literacy  classes,  97; 
polytechnic,  96;  role  of  private  schools 
in,  96;  teachers',  96;  university,  96 

Education  and  Culture,  Ministry  of,  97 

El  Comer  do,  141,  197 

Eldren  Reyes,  27 

elections,  30,  33,  155,  176-77;  presiden- 
tial, of  1948,  33;  presidential,  of  1952, 
34;  presidential,  of  1956,  35;  presiden- 
tial, of  1960,  35;  presidential,  of  1968, 
40;  presidential,  of  1978,  44-45; 
presidential,  of  1984,  48,  184;  presiden- 
tial, of  1988,  185-87 

Elections  Law  (1884),  158 

Elections  Law  (1906),  158 

Elections  Law  (1987).  See  Law  of  Elections 

Electoral  College,  169 

Electoral  College  of  Provincial  Prefects, 
169 

electoral  system,  159,  175-77;  election  of 
deputies,  166-67;  election  of  president, 
162;  election  of  vice  president,  165;  par- 
ish elections,  174;  provincial  and  mu- 
nicipal elections,  174 

electric  power,  133-34;  distribution  of, 
133-34;  generating  capacity,  133;  hy- 
droelectric generation,  133;  thermal 
generation,  133;  production,  133 

elite  class,  xxi,  54,  70-72,  190-91;  effects 
of  land  reform  on,  72;  management  by, 
of  political  affairs,  190 

El  Nino,  47-48;  described,  60;  effects  of, 
xxiv,  60,  107,  129,  150 

El  Oro  Province,  67,  123,  209 

Eloy  Alfaro  Advanced  Military  School, 
219 

Eloy  Alfaro  Air  Base,  185 

Eloy  Alfaro  Popular  Armed  Forces  (FAP- 
EA),  188 

El  Universo,  141,  197 

emergency  relief,  232-33 

encomiendas:  abolished,  11;  described,  xxi, 
13,  121;  pressure  to  reform,  121 

Energy  and  Mines,  Ministry  of,  112,  133 

Enlightenment:  as  precursor  of  indepen- 
dence, 16 


Ennquez  Gallo,  Alberto,  30 

Esmeralda  Indians,  5 

Esmeralda  scandal,  24 

Esmeraldas,  70,  78;  highway  transporta- 
tion through,  143;  military  training  in, 
219;  oil  refinery  in,  105,  132,  145;  tele- 
vision stations,  141 

Esmeraldas  Province,  12,  23,  57;  archaeo- 
logical sites  in,  4;  blacks  in,  84;  fores- 
try in,  130;  rainfall  in,  60 

Esmeraldas  River  system,  58-59 

Espe.  See  Army  Polytechnic  Institute 

Espejo,  Eugenio  de  Santa  Cruz  y:  as  pre- 
cursor of  independence,  16 

Estrada,  Emilio,  27 

Etapa.  See  Public  Municipal  Enterprise  for 
Telephones,  Potable  Water,  and  Sewers 

ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups),  83-90;  changing  membership 
in,  83-84,  86,  87;  criteria  for  defining, 
83,  84;  geography  of,  84;  ranking  of,  84 

Europe,  190,  198,  202,  244 

European  Economic  Community:  as  trad- 
ing partner,  150 

evangelical  missionary  activity,  94 

executive  branch,  162-66;  components  of, 
162;  conflicts  of,  with  legislature  and 
judiciary,  155,  256 

exports,  104-5;  of  agricultural  products, 
149;  under  Garcia  Moreno,  23;  of 
petroleum,  112,  149;  to  United  States, 
150;  value  of,  149 

Expreso,  197 

external  debt,  107,  145-48;  cause  of,  145; 
growth  of,  107,  145,  146;  interest  pay- 
ments growth,  145;  payments  sus- 
pended, 109,  111;  rescheduling  of,  107, 
150;  service  ratio,  107-8 

Extra,  197 

Extremadura,  7 


FADI.  See  Broad  Left  Front 
FAE.  See  air  force 

family,  Hispanic:  importance  of,  90;  kin- 
ship ties  in  (see  also  compadrazgo),  92; 
marital  fidelity  in,  91;  role  of,  90;  role 
of  men  in,  90;  role  of  women  in,  90-91 

family,  Indian:  importance  of,  90;  kinship 
ties  in,  92;  marital  fidelity  in,  91;  role 
of,  91 ;  roles  of  men  and  women  in,  91 

FAP-EA.  See  Eloy  Alfaro  Popular  Armed 
Forces 


291 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


farms:  size  of,  76 

FDN.  See  National  Democratic  Front 

Febres  Cordero  Ribadeneyra,  Leon,  4, 
48,  201,  236;  abduction  of,  xxv,  185, 
214;  attempt  to  change  electoral  law, 
184;  austerity  measures  under,  115; 
authoritarian  style  of,  xxv,  155,  165; 
campaign  promises  of,  110;  censure  of, 
196;  crises  in  government  of,  177,  184; 
devaluation  of  sucre  under,  115,  116; 
dismissal  of  cabinet  ministers  under, 
170;  economic  strategies  of,  103,  116, 
155;  election  of,  184;  foreign  policy  of, 
198,  199,  200;  free-enterprise  approach 
under,  110;  friction  in  government 
branches  under,  155,  162;  hatred  of,  for 
Borja,  156;  interference  of,  in  military 
matters,  190,  230;  judicial  appoint- 
ments by,  169;  labor  relations  under, 
119,  194;  media  under,  196;  opposition 
of,  to  Andean  Pact,  200;  suppression 
of  anti-austerity  demonstrations,  237; 
suspension  of  interest  payments,  199; 
Vargas  incident,  185,  214;  visit  of,  to 
Washington,  199 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many), 202;  military  materiel  pur- 
chased from,  222,  236 

Federation  of  High  School  Students  of 
Ecuador  (FESE),  194 

Federation  of  University  Students  of  Ecua- 
dor (FEUE),  194,  195 

FEDOC.  See  Ecuadorian  Federation  of 
Peasant  Organizations 

FEI.  See  Ecuadorian  Indian  Federation 

Ferdinand  VII,  16-17 

FESE.  See  Federation  of  High  School  Stu- 
dents of  Ecuador 

feudal  system,  Spanish,  12 

fiber  crops,  127 

fiestas,  96;  cargos  for,  94;  described,  94 
Finance  and  Credit,  Ministry  of,  117, 
169,  242 

financial  institutions,  private,  138 

financial  services,  136-37 

financial  system,  137-39 

fiscal  deficit,  113,  116,  1 1 7 ;  control  of,  114 

fiscal  reform,  212 

Fiscal  Tribunal,  161,  168,  169,  171;  com- 
ponents of,  172;  function  of,  170,  172 
fish:  export  of,  145 

fishing  (see  also  "tuna  war"),  103,  129-30; 
tuna,  129;  shrimp,  129 


Fitch,  John  Samuel,  227 

flood  disaster  (1982-83):  xxiv,  107,  129, 

150;  emergency  operations  for,  232- 

33 

Flores,  Juan  Jose,  22,  24,  157,  209;  as- 
sassination attempt  on,  20;  battle  vic- 
tories of,  18;  career  of,  19;  involvement 
of,  in  government,  158;  opposition  to, 
20;  ouster  of  (1845),  20;  as  president, 
18,  19,  20 
Flores  Jijon,  Antonio,  24;  as  president,  24 
food  processing,  134;  baking,  136;  as 
component  of  manufacturing,  134; 
flour  milling,  136;  rice  milling,  136; 
sugar  refining,  136 
foreign  borrowing,  113 
foreign  debt,  xxiv,  103-4,  113;  crisis  in,  4 
foreign-exchange  controls,  116 
foreign-exchange  earnings,  106;  sources 
of,  149 

foreign-exchange  reserves,  109 
foreign  policy:  of  Borja,  190,  201;  of 
Febres  Cordero,  198,  199,  200;  objec- 
tives, 197-98 
forestry:  area,  130;  problems  in,  130 
FP.  See  Popular  Front 
FRA.  See  Alfarist  Radical  Front 
France:  military  influence  of,  233;  mili- 
tary materiel  from,  218,  236,  237 
Franco,  Guillermo,  21 
FRN.  See  National  Reconstruction  Front 
FUT.  See  United  Workers  Front 


Galapagos  Islands,  5,  26,  54,  59,  129, 
186,  242;  administration  of,  174;  cli- 
mate in,  59-60,  61-62;  described,  58; 
location  of,  54;  military  protection  for, 
211;  tourism  to,  139;  United  States 
naval  base  on,  30,  222,  234;  volcanos 
in,  58;  water  transport  to,  145 

Garcia  Moreno,  Gabriel,  xxii,  24,  25,  26, 
212;  armed  forces  under,  209;  attempt 
of,  to  assassinate  Flores,  20;  career  of, 
22-24;  childhood  of,  22;  Conservative 
Party  established  by,  23,  180;  consti- 
tution under,  158;  contributions  of,  23; 
death  of,  23;  involvement  of,  in  govern- 
ment, 158;  Liberal  resistance  to,  23; 
opposition  of,  to  Flores,  22;  religious 
education  of,  22;  Roman  Catholicism 
under,  22-23 

Garcia  Moreno  Prison,  246,  247 


292 


Index 


gas,  natural:  discovery  of,  105;  reserves, 
132 

Gaceta  Legal,  171 

General  Union  of  Ecuadorian  Workers 

(UGTE),  193 
geography:  area,  54;  regions,  54-55 
German  Democratic  Republic,  202 
Gonzalez  Alvear,  Raul:  economic  policy 

under,  43 
Gonzalez  Suarez,  Federico,  26 
Gospel  Missionary  Union,  94 
government:  disputes  of,  with  labor,  119 
government  agencies,  111-12;  problems 

in,  112 

Government  and  Justice,  Ministry  of,  246 
government  expenditures,  118 
government  revenues:  from  taxes,  117-18 
government  structure,  161-62 
government  subsidies,  113 
grain,  126-27 

Gran  Colombia,  Confederation  of,  157, 
208;  dissolution  of,  18,  19,  209;  districts 
of,  18;  Ecuador  as  district  in,  18;  Flores 
as  governor  of  Ecuador  under,  19;  for- 
mation of,  18;  war  of,  with  Peru,  18 
Grancolombian  Merchant  Fleet,  145 
gross  domestic  product,  48,  103,  110; 
agriculture  as  percentage  of,  120;  con- 
struction as  percentage  of,  105,  136;  fis- 
cal deficit  as  percentage  of,  116;  growth 
rate,  106,  108,  109,  110,  111,  114,  117; 
petroleum  revenues  as  percentage  of, 
112 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  118 
Group  of  Eight,  201 
Guayallabamba  River,  58 
Guayana,  103 

Guayaquil,  18,  21,  22,  41,  155,  157,  208, 
209,  220,  238,  244;  airtransport,  144; 
climate  in,  60;  Costa  regionalism  in,  3; 
crime  rate  in,  246;  declaration  of  in- 
dependence by,  1 7 ;  defense  zone  head- 
quarters, 217;  development  of,  69;  as 
economic  center,  104;  economic  growth 
in,  46;  elite  in,  190,  191,  212;  emer- 
gency operations  center  in,  233;  Flores 
ousted  by  insurrection  in,  20;  founding 
of,  10,  65-66;  industry  and  trade  in,  14, 
103;  Liberal  politics  in,  3,  24,  180;  man- 
ufacturing in,  118,  134;  marine  head- 
quarters at,  222;  metropolitan  police  in, 
242;  migration  to,  xxii,  67,  69-70,  84; 
National  Police  headquarters  in,  242; 


naval  base,  221;  Naval  War  College, 
223;  naval  zone,  221;  newspapers  in, 
141,  197;  politics  in,  xxii,  156;  popu- 
lation of,  69-70;  prison  in,  246;  radio 
in,  140,  141;  Rocafuerte  as  governor 
of,  20;  slums  in,  67;  squatter  settle- 
ments in,  xxii,  67-68;  stock  exchange, 
138;  struggle  for  independence  by, 
17-18;  telephone  service  in,  139,  140; 
television  stations,  141;  transferred  to 
Peru,  16;  uprising  in,  31;  vulnerabil- 
ity of,  to  attack,  210 
Guayaquil  Chamber  of  Commerce,  40, 
43 

Guayaquil,  Gulf  of,  5,  57,  58,  60;  natu- 
ral gas  in,  105,  132-33;  shrimp  farm- 
ing in,  129 

guayaquileno,  40 

Guayaquil-Quito  railroad,  26,  142 
Guay as  Province,  57,  67,  123,  126,  178, 

186;  archaeological  sites  in,  4 
Guay  as  River,  58,  69,  145 
Guayas  River  Basin,  58,  126,  145 
Guayas  River  system,  58 
Guerrillas  for  a  Free  Homeland,  238 
Guevara  Moreno,  Carlos,  34,  41,  183 
Gulf  Oil,  131 


haciendas,  xxi;  Costa,  76;  demise  of, 
53-54;  described,  71;  operation  of,  74; 
owners,  70-71;  Sierra,  73-74 

Health,  Ministry  of,  97 

health,  public:  acquired  immune  defici- 
ency syndrome  (AIDS),  99;  causes  of 
death,  99;  childhood  malnutrition,  99; 
childhood  mortality,  98-99;  deficiencies 
of  system,  97;  infant  mortality,  97-98; 
maternal  mortality,  99;  system,  97;  trop- 
ical diseases,  99 

Herring,  Hubert,  9 

highway  system,  142:  construction  of,  142 
history,  pre-Hispanic,  4-6 
history,  Spanish  colonial,  11-16;  labor 
under,  14,  15;  working  conditions,  14 
House  of  Trade:  described,  11 
Hoy,  196 

Hoya  del  Quito,  58 
hoyas,  58,  67:  defined,  57 
Huancavilca  Indians,  5,  10 
Huascar,  6;  execution  of,  9 
huasipungo  system:  abolished,  xxii,  37, 
121;  defined,  37;  described,  74,  121 


293 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


huasipungueros,  xxi,  74,  79 

Huayna  Capac,  5,6;  death  of,  6;  move- 
ment of  population  under,  6;  rule  of,  6 

human  rights:  abuses  by  courts,  245; 
abuses  by  police,  243 

Hurtado,  Jaime,  185-86 

Hurtado  Larrea,  Osvaldo,  44,  46,  155, 
156,  180,  183,  185;  austerity  measures 
under,  194;  economic  crisis  under,  47; 
political  ideology  of,  4 


Ibarra,  Battle  of,  208 

ID.  See  Democratic  Left 

IERAC.  See  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Agrar- 
ian Reform  and  Settlement 

Ietel.  See  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Telecom- 
munications 

Imbabura  Province,  74;  archaeological 
sites  in,  4;  blacks  in,  84 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 

imports:  capital  goods,  149;  durable  con- 
sumer goods,  149;  from  United  States, 
150;  value  of,  149 

Inca  (see  also  Tawantinsuyu):  civil  war  in 
Ecuador  under,  6;  conquest  of  Ecuador 
by,  xxi,  5;  defeat  of,  by  conquistadors, 
84;  impact  of,  on  Ecuador,  5-6 

Inca  culture,  4 

income  distribution:  inequality  of,  46 

independence:  achievement  of,  xxi,  18; 
effect  of,  on  criollos,  xxi,  19;  effect  of, 
on  peasants,  19;  precursors  of,  16; 
struggle  for,  in  Quito  audiencia,  16,  17 

Indians  {see  also  under  names  of  individual 
groups),  xxi,  71,  124,  197;  abolition  of 
tribute  demanded  from,  21;  benefits 
gained  under  Alfaro,  26;  change  in  eth- 
nic affiliation  of,  86;  conversion  of,  to 
Christianity,  13;  crime  among,  246; 
destruction  of,  by  European  diseases, 
13-14;  discrimination  against,  161; 
family  and  kin,  90-92;  as  laborers,  80, 
82;  in  mita  system,  xxi,  13;  as  percen- 
tage of  population,  83;  resettlement  of, 
13;  as  serfs,  84;  subordination  of,  71; 
tribute  demanded  from,  13;  working 
conditions  for,  14,  15 

Indians,  Costa  (see  also  under  names  of  in- 
dividual tribes):  description  of,  5;  in 
peonage  system,  xxi,  104;  as  under- 
class, 12 


Indians,  Oriente  (see  also  under  names  of 
individual  tribes),  88-90;  contacts  of,  with 
whites,  88;  geographic  distribution 
of,  89;  impact  of  colonization  on, 
89-90;  Jivaros,  89;  lack  of  protection 
for,  90;  migration  of,  89;  population 
decline  of,  89;  subsistence,  89;  Yum- 
bos,  89 

Indians,  Sierra  (see  also  under  names  of  in- 
dividual tribes),  53,  87-88;  description  of, 
5;  ethnic  markers,  87;  language  of,  87; 
in  peonage  system,  104;  political  or- 
ganization of,  5;  population,  87;  pub- 
lic deference  by,  87-88;  religious 
practices  of,  94;  stigma  of,  87 

indigena.  See  Indians 

individual  rights,  161 

industrial  reform,  212 

Inecel.  See  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Elec- 
trification 

Inemin.  See  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Min- 
erals 

Inerhi.  See  Ecuadorian  Institute  of  Hy- 
draulic Resources 

infant  mortality,  97-98;  causes,  98;  rate, 
63,  97 

inflation  rate,  108;  in  1972-77,  112;  in 
1987,  110;  in  1988,  111,  116;  in  1989, 
117 

Inquisition,  Office  of  the,  16;  role  of,  93 
Institute  of  Higher  National  Studies,  215, 
220 

Instruction,  Department  of,  219 
Inter-American  Development  Bank,  40, 
198 

Inter- American  Press  Association,  196 

Inter- American  Regional  Organization  of 
Workers  (ORIT),  193 

Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  As- 
sistance (Rio  Treaty),  198 

internal  security,  237-47 

International  Criminal  Police  Organiza- 
tion (Interpol),  246 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  48, 
107,  148 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization,  140 

interpellation  procedure,  169 

Interpol.  See  International  Criminal  Police 
Organization 

Iquitos,  202 

irrigation:  among  Sierra  Indians,  5 
Isabela  Island  (Albemarle  Island),  58 


294 


Index 


Israel,  198:  security  consulting  by,  236; 
service  of  aircraft  by,  236;  as  supplier 
of  military  materiel,  236 

Italy:  emergency  assistance  of,  233;  mili- 
tary influence  of,  233;  military  materiel 
purchased  from,  222,  236,  237 

Japan,  24;  attack  by,  on  Pearl  Harbor, 
234;  declaration  of  war  against,  234;  as 
trading  partner,  150 

Jarrin  Ampudia,  Gustavo,  42;  oil  policy 
of,  43 

Jesuits:  expulsion  of,  15,  20-21;  improve- 
ments in  education  by,  23;  settlement 
of,  in  Oriente,  12 

Ji'varos,  89:  Achuar,  89;  Shuar,  89 

Joint  Command,  207,  215;  function  of, 
215;  members  of,  215 

JRVs.  See  Vote  Receiving  Committees 

judges:  appointment  of,  170;  require- 
ments, 170,  172 

judicial  appointments,  169 

judicial  branch,  170-72;  components  of, 
170-72;  conflicts  of,  with  executive, 
155,  156;  corruption  and  inefficiency 
in,  245-46;  court  system,  170-72,  245; 
manipulation  of,  171;  Tribunal  of  Con- 
stitutional Guarantees,  172-73; 

judicial  organs;  powers  of,  171 

Kemmerer,  Edwin  W.,  28 
Kfir,  236-37 
Korean  War,  34 


labor:  development  of,  192;  employee  as- 
sociations, 192;  history,  192;  impact  of, 
192;  informal  sector,  82;  in  Spanish 
colonial  period,  14,15;  working  condi- 
tions, 14 

Labor  Code  of  1930,  30,  192 

labor  force:  demographics  of,  118 

labor,  organized,  192-94;  disputes  of, 
with  government,  119 

La  Calle,  197 

Lago  Agrio,  131 

La  Hora,  197 

land:  division  of,  among  siblings,  78-79; 

elite  control  of,  73-74 
land  distribution,  79;  inequality  of,  122 
landholding:  structure  of,  76 


land  reform  (see  also  agrarian  reform),  74; 

benefits  of,  76;  effects  of,  72 
Land  Reform,  Idle  Lands,  and  Setdement 

Act,  121-22;  amendments  to,  122;  prob- 
lems with,  122 
land  tenure:  encomienda  system,  121;  hu- 

asipungo  system,  121;  minifundio  system, 

121;  sharecropping,  121 
land  use:  in  the  Costa,  120;  for  crops,  120; 

in  the  Oriente,  120;  for  pasture,  120; 

in  the  Sierra,  120 
Latacunga,  16;  air  base  in,  225;  land  use 

in,  120;  obrajes  in,  104 
latifundio,  73 
latifundistas,  70 

Latin  America,  161 ;  countries  as  trading 
partners,  150;  international  debt  of, 
199;  solidarity  within,  200,  201 
Latin  American  Economic  System,  200 
Latin  American  Energy  Organization, 
200 

Latin  American  Integration  Association, 
200 

Law  of  Elections  (1987),  173,  175,  177 
Law  of  the  Monetary  System,  137 
Law  of  Municipal  Regime,  173 
Law  of  Political  Parties  (1978),  173,  178; 
party  dissolution  under,  179;  and  po- 
litical propaganda,  179-80;  and  pub- 
lic demonstrations,  179 
League  of  Young  Officers:  overthrow  of 

Cordova  by,  28;  reforms  under,  28 
Lebanese,  67,  186 

legislative  branch,  166-70;  conflicts  of, 

with  executive,  155,  156 
legislative  commissions  (PC L),  160,  162, 

163,  168,  172,  173;  duties  of,  168,  169; 

judicial  involvement  with,  171;  rights 

of,  168 
leishmaniasis,  99 

Liberal  Party  (Radical  Liberal  Party — 
PLR),  xxiv,  25,  26,  27,  182,  184,  212; 
anticlericalism  of,  188;  background  of, 
180;  as  cause  of  political  instability,  27; 
corruption  in,  181;  end  of  rule  of,  28; 
led  by  Arroyo  del  Rio,  30;  military  sup- 
port for,  189;  platform  of,  181 

Liberals,  3;  accomplishments  of,  under 
Alfaro,  26;  agricultural  exports  and,  24; 
in  Guayaquil,  24;  problems  under, 
26-27;  resistance  of,  to  Garcia  Moreno, 
23;  struggle  of,  against  Conservatives, 
20,  156,  157 


295 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


Libya,  238 

Lima,  Peru,  11,  104 

Lima  Group,  200,  201 

literacy,  97;  training  provided  by  armed 

forces,  233 
livestock  raising,  128-29;  for  beef,  128- 

29;  for  dairy,  128;  improvements  in, 

129;  problems  with,  129 
Lloyd's  Bank,  138 
Loja,  120 

Loj a  Province,  47,  67,  128;  archaeologi- 
cal sites  in,  4 
Lopes  Soares,  Mario,  202 
Los  Rios  Province,  123,  126,  186 
Luque,  Fernando  de,  7 

Machala,  70,  145 
Madrid,  11 

Mahuad  Witt,  Jamil,  185 
Mainas  Province,  15 
malaria,  99 

Maldonado,  Guillermo,  42;  achievements 

of,  42 
malnutrition,  99 

Manabi  Province,  54,  57,  178;  archaeo- 
logical sites  in,  4;  coffee  production  in, 
124;  livestock  raising  in,  128-29 

Manta,  185,  225 

Manta  Indians,  5 

Manta  region,  12;  autonomy  of,  12;  con- 
quered, 12 

manufacturing,  103,  134-35;  in  colonial 
Ecuador,  104;  employment  in,  118; 
sizes  of  firms,  134;  types  of  firms,  134 

manufacturing,  artisan:  defined,  118;  em- 
ployment in,  118 

Mararion  district,  202 

marcistas:  described,  20 

marines,  222 

Marquesas  Islands,  5 

Marshal  Sucre  International  Airport,  185, 
224 

Martinez  Mera,  Juan  de  Dios,  29,  30 

Martz,  John  D.,  45,  155-56 

maternal  mortality,  99 

Medelh'n  Cartel  (Colombia),  244 

media  (see  also  individual  media):  govern- 
ment attempts  to  stifle,  196;  ownership, 
195 

Medium-  and  Long-Range  Planning, 

Directorate  of,  166 
Mera  airfield,  224 


mercantilism,  14 
merchant  marine,  145 
Merchant  Marine  School,  223 
mestizos,  16,  26,  84-86,  87,  88;  as  arti- 
sans, xxi,  80;  defined,  53;  family  and 
kin,  90-92;  identity,  86;  occupations, 
86;  as  part  of  middle  class,  73; 
as  percentage  of  population,  83 
Mexico,  xxi,  8,  129,  130,  201 
middle  class,  54,  72-73;  described,  72-73; 
ethnic  components  of,  73 ;  immigrants 
in,  73;  orientation  of,  73;  rise  of,  xxiv, 
53-54,  72 
Middle  East,  202 

migrants:  crime  committed  by,  246;  to 
Oriente,  typical,  79;  Oriente  Indians 
as,  89;  peasant,  to  Oriente,  53,  54,  67, 
68 

migration:  causes  of,  67;  to  the  cities,  67, 
68-69;  commitment  to,  83;  to  the  Costa, 
xxii,  67,  68-69,  86;  effects  of,  67,  69-70; 
volume  of,  82 

military  (see  also  under  individual  branches), 
162,  189-90;  autonomy,  214;  civic- 
action  programs  of,  233;  conscription, 
226;  control  of  executive  by,  xxiv,  189, 
212-13;  corruption  in,  230;  emergency 
relief,  232-33;  factionalism  within, 
189-90,  213;  Febres  Cordero's  in- 
terference in,  190;  history  of,  208- 
10;  influence  of,  190;  legitimization 
of  political  role  of,  189;  literacy  train- 
ing provided  by,  233;  political  involve- 
ment of,  xxiv-xxv,  28,  41-45,  207- 
8,  212-14;  position  of,  strengthened 
by  rule,  213-  14;  primary  schools,  220; 
professionalization  of,  209,  212;  ranks, 
insignia,  and  uniforms,  226;  reserves, 
214-17;  training,  United  States-spon- 
sored, 234;  vulnerability  of,  210-11 

Military  Air  Transport  Command,  224 

Military  Aviation  School,  225 

military  education,  209;  air  force,  225; 
army,  219-20;  academy  established  in 
Quito,  212;  navy,  222-23 

military  justice,  225-26;  military  law, 
225;  procedures  and  penalties,  225-26; 
trials,  225 

military  materiel:  domestic  sources  for, 
236;  foreign  sources  for,  236;  imports 
of,  237 

minifundios,  73,  76,  79,  122,  122;  defined, 
xxi,  121;  earnings  from,  122 


296 


Index 


minimum  wage,  119 
mining:  of  gold,  133;  of  limestone,  133 
ministers  of  state:  requirements  of,  165; 
restrictions  on,  165;  missionary  activi- 
ties, 94 

mita  system:  described,  13;  end  of,  16 
mitayos,  13,  14 
Mitterrand,  Danielle,  202 
Mitterrand,  Francois,  202 
Mobilization,  National  Directorate  of, 
215 

Monetary  Board,  146,  166,  215;  function 

of,  115,  137;  members  of,  137 
Montalvo,  Juan,  23 
montuvio.  See  mestizo 
motion  pictures,  141 
Movement  for  the  Unity  of  the  Left 

(MUI),  187 
MPD.  See  Democratic  Popular  Movement 
MRIC.  See  Revolutionary  Movement  of 

the  Christian  Left 
MSC.  See  Social  Christian  Movement 
MUI.  See  Movement  for  the  Unity  of  the 

Left 


Napo  Province,  199 

Napo  River,  59,  131 

narcotics  control,  243-44;  coca  cultiva- 
tion, 243;  United  States  assistance  in, 
244 

narcotics  traffickers,  188,  234;  from 
Bolivia,  244;  from  Colombia,  207,  211, 
244 

National  Assembly,  238 

National  Civil  Guard,  239 

National  Civil  Police,  239 

National  Communications  Secretariat 
(Senac),  196;  press  freedom  under,  196 

National  Congress.  See  Congress,  Na- 
tional 

National  Coordinator  of  Workers  (CNT), 
194 

National  Court  of  Police  Justice,  243 
National  Defense,  Ministry  of,  174,  215 
National  Defense  University  (Washing- 
ton, D.C.),  220 
National  Democratic  Front  (FDN),  183 
National  Development  Bank  (BNF),  138; 

role  of,  138 
National  Development  Council  (Conade), 
117,  161,  162,  215;  described,  165-66; 
restructuring  of,  166 


National  Directorate  of  Civil  Defense, 

232;  function  of,  232 
National  Directorate  for  Control  of  Ille- 
gal Narcotics,  242 
National  Directorate  of  Intelligence,  215 
National  Directorate  of  Social  Rehabili- 
tation, 246 
National  Directorate  of  Tourism,  139 
National  Emergency  Relief  Center,  233 
National  Federation  of  Workers,  169 
National  Financial  Corporation  (CFN), 

138;  role  of,  138 
National  Literacy  Program,  201 
National  Palace,  162 
National  Planning  Board,  165 
National  Police,  162,  233,  232;  abuse  and 
torture  by,  242-43;  conduct  of,  242;  de- 
velopment of,  239;  instructional  facili- 
ties, 242;  members  of,  239;  mission  of, 
239;  structure  of,  239-42;  supplemen- 
tary services,  242 
National  Postal  Enterprise,  141 
National  Radio,  140,  196 
National  Reconstruction  Front  (FRN), 
184 

National  Secretariat  for  Public  Informa- 
tion (Sendip),  196 

National  Security  Act  Number  275 
(1979),  215,  232 

National  Security  Council  (NSC),  207, 
220;  established,  215;  members  of,  215 

National  Union  of  Teachers  (UNE),  193 

National  Velasquista  Federation,  40 

National  Velasquista  Party  (PNV),  183 

Naval  War  College,  223 

navy:  bases,  221;  basic  training,  222-23; 
coast  guard,  222;  components  of,  207; 
equipment  of,  222;  marines,  222;  ma- 
rine training,  223;  missions  of,  220-21; 
naval  zones,  221;  officer  training,  223; 
organization  of,  221-22;  origin  of,  220; 
patrols  by,  211;  personnel  complement, 
220 

Negro  River,  10 

New  China  (Xinhua)  News  Agency,  141 
New  Laws  (1542),  11 
newspapers,  197 
Nicaragua,  200,  201,  238 
19th  of  April  Movement  (M-19),  211, 
246 

Noboa,  Diego,  20 

Nonaligned  Movement  (NAM),  200,  202 
Noriega,  Manuel  Antonio,  201 


297 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


NSC.  See  National  Security  Council 
Nudo  del  Azuay,  57 
nudos,  57;  defined,  57 
Nueva,  196,  197 

Nueva  Granada,  Viceroy alty  of,  104;  Ec- 
uador as  part  of,  11;  Quito  audiencia 
under,  15 

Nueva  Loja,  131,  132 

OAS.  See  Organization  of  American 
States 

obrajes,  14,  104;  closing  of,  15 

Officer  Training  School,  242 

officers:  democratization  of,  227;  demo- 
graphics of,  227-30;  promotion  of,  230; 
retirement,  230;  salaries  for,  230 

Official  Register  of  the  State  (Registro  Ofi- 
cial  del  Estado),  163 

oil  boom,  xxiii-xxiv,  4,  46;  benefit  of,  to 
Quito,  xxiii,  71;  economic  strategies 
during,  113;  effects  of,  4,  69,  148-49; 
military's  profit  from,  208 

oil  companies:  exploration  in  Sierra  by, 
53 

oil  exports,  104,  112-13;  effect  of,  on 

economy,  148-49 
oil,  vegetable,  123;  agriculture  for,  1 27— 

28;  export  of,  145 
Olmedo,  Jose  Joaquin,  17 
onchocerciasis,  99 

OPEC.  See  Organization  of  Petroleum 
Exporting  Countries 

"Operation  Blazing  Trails,"  199 

Orellana,  Francisco  de:  exploration  of 
Amazon  by,  10,  12 

Organization  of  American  States  (OAS), 
197,  200,  201 

Organization  of  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  (OPEC),  130,  132,  198,  200, 
201;  Ecuador's  entry  into,  42;  member- 
ship in,  198;  problems  in,  43;  produc- 
tion quotas,  199;  withdrawal  from, 
108-9 

Oriente,  4,  12,  15,  54,  58,  132,  186;  air 
transport,  144;  Andean  piedmont  in, 
58;  climate  in,  59,  61;  colonization  in, 
79;  described,  58;  Eastern  lowlands  in, 
58;  emergency  relief  in,  234;  forestry 
in,  130;  lack  of  highways  in,  143;  land 
use  in,  120;  livestock  raising  in, 
128-29;  migration  to,  from  Sierra,  54, 
67,  68,  84;  natural  gas  in,  132;  oil  in, 


105,  146;  oil  companies  in,  53;  peasants 
in,  53;  petroleum  activity  in,  131;  pop- 
ulation increase  in,  68;  rainfall  in,  61; 
reflection  of  pre-Columbian  Ecuador 
in,  3;  rivers  in,  59;  settlements  in,  79- 
80;  temperatures  in,  61;  Texaco-Gulf 
concession  in,  42;  water  transport  in, 
145 

ORIT.  See  Inter- American  Regional  Or- 
ganization of  Workers 
Ortega  Saavedra,  Daniel,  201 
Otavalo  Indians,  88 


Pachacuti  Inca  Upanqui:  conquest  of 

Ecuador  by,  5 
Pacific  Bank,  138 
Paez,  Federico,  30 

Paine,  Thomas:  influence  of  works  of,  on 

Ecuador,  16 
Paita,  Peru,  11 
Palestinian  people,  202 
Palta  Indians,  5 
Panama,  201 
Panama  Canal,  26,  234 
Panama  Canal  Zone,  234 
Panama  Defense  Forces,  201 
Panama,  Isthmus  of,  7 
Pan  American  Highway,  142-43 
Panzaleo  Indians,  5 
paratroopers:  abduction  of  Febres  Cor- 

dero,  xxv;  185;  214;  court  martial  of, 

214;  pardon  of,  187-88 
Parcayacu,  219 
Paris  Club,  107 

parishes:  council,  174;  elections,  174;  gov- 
erned by,  174 
Parodi,  Luis,  166 
Pastaza  River,  59 
Pasto  Indians,  5 
Patate  River,  59 
Paute  River,  133 
PC.  See  Conservative  Party 
PCD.  See  People,  Change,  and  Democracy 
PCE.  See  Ecuadorian  Communist  Party 
PCE-ML.  See  Communist  Party  of  Ec- 
uador— Marxist  Leninist 
PCL.  See  legislative  commissions 
PCP.  See  Progressive  Conservative  Party 
PDC.  See  Christian  Democratic  Party 
Peace  Corps,  United  States,  198 
peasants,  54,  73-80;  effects  of  conver- 
sion to  Protestantism  on,  96;  effect  of 


298 


Index 


independence  on,  19;  effects  of  land  re- 
form on,  72;  family  structure  of,  73; 
migration  of,  to  Oriente,  53,  67-68;  re- 
bellion by,  in  1923,  28;  sources  of  in- 
come for,  78;  subordination  of,  71 
penal  system,  246-47;  facilities,  246;  over- 
crowding, 247;  rehabilitation,  246-47; 
women's  prison  in  Quito,  246,  247 
peninsulares,  xxi,  12,  16,  85 
Pentecostal  missionary  activity,  94 
peonage  system:  described,  104;  Indians 
in,  104 

People,  Change,  and  Democracy  (PCD), 
183 

People's  Bank,  138 

People's  Patriotic  Union  (UPP),  185 

Perez,  Carlos  Andres,  201 

periodicals,  197 

personalism,  3 

personalist  movements,  183-84 
Peru,  xxi,  24,  36,  42,  103,  200,  208; 
acceptance  of  Rio  Protocol  by,  210; 
border  disputes  of,  with  Ecuador,  54, 
202,  207,  209-10,  214;  occupation  of 
Ecuador  by,  31;  revolution  in,  16,  18; 
rule  of  Ecuador  by,  17;  as  signer  of 
Andean  Pact,  200;  as  signer  of  Car- 
tagena Agreement,  200;  Spanish  con- 
quest of,  7;  telephone  service,  139,  140; 
terrorism  in,  237;  transfer  of  Guayaquil 
to,  16;  transfer  of  Mainas  and  Quijos 
provinces  to,  15;  war  of,  with  Gran 
Colombia,  18;  war  with,  over  border, 
26,  31,  202 
Peru,  Viceroyalty  of,  18,  104,  208;  Ecua- 
dor as  part  of,  11 
Peruvian  Current,  61;  effects  of,  60 
Petroecuador,  132;  responsibilities  of,  112 
petroleum,  103;  decline,  xxiv,  107,  150; 
discovery  of,  131 ;  effect  of  discovery  of, 
103,  105;  exports,  106,  109,  111,  146; 
importance  of,  in  economy,  130;  loca- 
tion of,  131;  policy,  42-43;  price  of, 
108,  112,  113,  146,  148;  production 
level,  130,  131,  132;  refining,  132; 
refining,  control  and  ownership  of,  132; 
reserves  of,  131;  revenues  from,  109, 
110,  112-13,  237;  revenues  for  military 
requirements,  214 
Philanthropic  Bank,  138 
Pichincha,  Battle  of,  18,  208-9 
Pichincha,  Mount,  67 
Pichincha  Province,  74,  123,  178 


Pike,  Frederick  B.,  22,  33 

Pizarro,  Francisco,  6;  arrival  of,  in  Caja- 
marca,  8;  assassination  of,  11;  back- 
ground of,  7;  Cordillera  Oriental  crossed 
by,  10;  execution  of  Atahualpa  by,  9; 
meeting  of,  with  Atahualpa,  8-9; 
strained  relations  with  Almargo,  8;  third 
voyage  of,  8-11 

Pizarro,  Gonzalo,  8,  10;  execution  of,  11 

Pizarro,  Juan,  8 

Placido  Caamafio,  Jose  Maria:  as  presi- 
dent, 24 

Plaza  Gutierrez,  Leonidas,  xxiv,  27,  33 

Plaza  Lasso,  Galo,  36,  40,  238;  back- 
ground of,  33-34;  contributions  of,  34; 
ties  of,  to  United  States,  33 

PLR.  See  Liberal  Party 

Poland,  37 

police  courts,  243 

Police  Officers'  Higher  Training  School, 
242 

political  candidates,  176;  restrictions  on, 
178 

political  instability,  xxiv,  156;  causes  of, 
3,  27,  29,  156,  184;  description  of,  3; 
history  of,  155 

political  interest  groups,  188-95 

political  parties,  xxv,  176,  177-88;  coali- 
tions, 183-84;  dissolution  of,  179;  fi- 
nancial assistance  for,  177;  membership 
in,  178;  organizational  requirements 
for,  178-79;  state  protection  of,  177 

political  propaganda,  179-80 

political  struggle:  role  of  armed  forces  in, 
4 

politics:  effect  of  middle  class  on,  72; 
party,  184-88;  role  of  regions  in,  71 

Ponce  Enriquez,  Camilo,  35,  180,  184; 
accomplishments  of,  35;  party  or- 
ganized by,  183 

Pontificia  Universidad  Catolica  del  Ecua- 
dor, 197 

Popular  Alliance  (AP),  184 

Popular  Democratic  Union  (UDP),  187 

Popular  Democracy  (DP),  183,  187 

Popular  Front  (FP),  193 

population:  crude  birth  rate,  63-64;  crude 
death  rate,  63;  and  family  planning,  64, 
65-67;  fertility  rate,  64;  growth,  effects 
of,  64-65;  growth  rate,  62-63;  life  ex- 
pectancy, 64;  in  1990,  62;  in  2000,  63 

Portoviejo,  26,  57;  television  stations,  141 

Poveda  Burbano,  Alfredo,  46,  213 


299 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


poverty:  number  of  families  in,  78;  rural, 

79;  worst  areas  of,  78 
PRE.  See  Ecuadorian  Roldosist  Party 
Prensa  Latina,  141 

president  (see  also  executive):  as  com- 
mander in  chief,  207,  215;  duties  and 
powers,  162-63;  election  of,  175;  legis- 
lative powers  of,  163,  165;  require- 
ments, 162;  order  of  subrogation  for, 
165;  prosecution  of,  168;  restrictions 
on,  165;  term  of,  157,  162 

press  (see  also  media),  141;  foreign  wire 
services,  141 

Princeton  University  advisory  mission, 
28-29;  accomplishments  of,  29 

Proafio  Villalba,  Leonidas  (Bishop),  93 

Progressive  Conservative  Party  (PCP), 
183 

Progressive  Party,  24;  platform  of,  24 

Protocol  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Boun- 
daries. See  Rio  Protocol 

Protestantism  (see  also  under  individual 
denominations):  conversion  to,  94-96 

provinces:  council,  174;  elections,  174; 
governed  by,  174 

Provincial  Electoral  Tribunals  (TPEs), 
159;  as  election  overseers,  175;  func- 
tions of,  176,  179 

PSC.  See  Social  Christian  Party 

PSE.  See  Ecuadorian  Socialist  Party 

PSRE.  See  Revolutionary  Socialist  Party 
of  Ecuador 

public  demonstrations,  179 

Public  Forces,  162,  163,  175;  mission  of, 
215 

Public  Health,  Ministry  of,  97;  emergency 
relief,  232;  health  care  system  under,  97 

Public  Ministry:  components  of,  173-74; 
described,  173-74 

Public  Municipal  Enterprise  for  Tele- 
phones, Potable  Water,  and  Sewers 
(Etapa),  140 

public  sector:  components  of,  112;  em- 
ployment in,  113;  expansion  of,  112; 
expenditures  of,  112 

Public  Works  and  Communications,  Min- 
istry of,  112,  140,  232 

Puerto  Bolivar,  145 

Puerto  Nuevo,  145 

Puerto  Viejo,  145 

Puna,  8 

Puna  Indians,  5 
Puna  Island,  58 


Puruha  Indians. 

Putumayo  River,  59 

Puyo:  defense  zone  headquarters,  217 

Quayle,  Daniel,  199 
Quechua  language,  6 
Quevedo,  70,  143 

Quichua  (see  also  Yumbos),  87,  88,  89, 
140 

Quijos  Province,  14,  15 

quiteno,  15,  16,  17,  19 

Quiteno  Libre,  El,  19;  assassination  of 
founders  of,  19 

Quito,  9,  11,  12,  21,  22,  24,  25,  27,  31, 
40,  67,  138,  155,  157,  162,  170,  172, 
185,  244;  air  transport,  144;  Air  War 
College  at,  225;  as  capital  of  Tawan- 
tinsuyu,  6;  Conservative  politics  in,  3; 
crime  rate  in,  246;  declaration  of  in- 
dependence by,  17,  208;  defense  zone 
headquarters,  217;  demonstrations  in, 
29;  destruction  of,  by  Ruminahui,  10; 
development  of,  69;  economic  growth 
in,  46;  electric  generation  in,  133;  as 
intellectual  center,  16;  land  use  in,  120; 
manufacturing  in,  118,  134;  metropoli- 
tan police  in,  242;  migration  to,  68-70, 
82,  84;  military  academy  established  in, 
212;  National  Emergency  Relief 
Center,  233;  National  Police  head- 
quarters in,  242;  naval  zone,  221; 
newspapers  in,  141,  197;  politics  in, 
xxii,  156,  180;  population  of,  69;  popu- 
lation growth  in,  69-70;  prison  in,  246; 
radio  in,  140,  141;  rail  service,  142; 
rainfall  in,  61;  revolt  of,  against 
Bonaparte,  17;  siege  of,  by  Benalcazar, 
10;  Sierra  regionalism  in,  3;  slums  in, 
67;  squatter  settlements  in,  xxii,  69-70; 
stock  exchange,  138;  student  protests 
in,  237;  telephone  service  in,  139,  140; 
television  stations,  141;  textile  indus- 
try in,  136;  as  trade  center,  103;  upper 
class,  190,  191 

Quito  audiencia,  18;  capitulation  of,  to 
Sucre,  18;  described,  11;  inaccessibil- 
ity of,  12;  struggle  for  independence  in, 
16,  17;  territory  under,  11-12;  under 
Viceroyalty  of  Nueva  Granada,  15 

Quito  Chamber  of  Commerce,  43 

Quito  rebellion;  crushed,  17;  described, 
17 


300 


Index 


Quito-San  Lorenzo  rail  line,  142 
Quito  State  Charter  (1812),  157 
Quitu  Indians,  5 


Radical  Liberal  Party.  See  Liberal  Party 

radio  broadcast  facilities,  197;  AM  sta- 
tions, 140;  FM  stations,  141;  lan- 
guages, 140;  number  of  receivers,  140; 
shortwave  stations,  141,  197;  "Voice 
of  the  Andes,"  141,  197 

rail  system,  142;  decline  in,  142 

Reagan,  Ronald,  199,  237 

Red  Cross,  232 

reducciones:  resettlement  of  Indians  in,  13 
regidores,  12 
regionalism,  3,  156 

Registro  Oficial  del  Estado  (Official  Register 

of  the  State),  163,  179 
Reuters,  141 

Revolutionary  Movement  of  the  Christian 
Left  (MRIC),  187 

Revolutionary  Socialist  Party  of  Ecuador 
(PSRE),  182 

rice,  123;  production  of,  126 

Riobamba,  6,  9,  12,  16,  23,  26;  land  use 
in,  120;  military  training  in,  219;  Na- 
tional Police  headquarters  in,  242; 
obrajes  in,  104 

Rio  Protocol,  197;  described,  31,  54,  209- 
10;  military's  refusal  to  accept,  210; 
renounced  by  Velasco,  36 

Robles,  Francisco:  abolition  of  Indian  trib- 
ute, 21;  opposition  to,  21 

Roca,  Vicente  Ramon,  20 

Rocafuerte  y  Rodriguez  de  Bejarano,  Jose 
Vicente:  career  of,  19-20;  contributions 
of,  20;  as  governor  of  Guayaquil,  20; 
opposition  of,  to  Flores,  20;  as  puppet 
ofFlores,  19-20 

Rodriguez  Lara,  Guillermo,  41,  44;  over- 
throw by,  of  Velasco,  160;  overthrow 
of,  43,  160,  213;  promises  of,  42;  re- 
gime of,  41-42,  213 

Roldos  Aguilera,  Jaime,  4,  44,  45,  155; 
death  of,  47;  party  organized  by,  183; 
rivalry  of,  with  Bucaram,  46-47 

roldosista,  183 

Rousseau,  Jean-Jacques:  influence  of  works 

of,  on  Ecuador,  16 
Ruiz  de  Estrada,  Bartolome,  7 
Ruminahui,  10;  defeat  of,  9 


Salaaca  Indians,  88 

Salgado  Pesantes,  Hernan,  159,  173,  178 

Salinas:  Air  Force  Academy,  225;  naval 
base,  221,  222,  234;  petroleum  in,  131; 
United  States  air  base  at,  30,  222 

Salinas  Naval  Training  Base,  222 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.,  189 

San  Cristobal  Island:  naval  zone,  221 

San  Francisco  de  Quito,  10 

Sangay,  Mount,  57 

San  Lorenzo,  142;  naval  base,  221 

San  Martin,  Jose  de,  17-18 

San  Miguel  de  Tanguara,  8 

Santa  Cruz  Calahumana,  Andres  de,  18 

Santa  Elena  Peninsula,  60,  120;  petro- 
leum in,  131 

Santa  Elena  Province:  archaeological  sites 
in,  4;  oil  refineries  in,  132 

Santo  Domingo,  70 

Santo  Tomas,  58 

Saraguro  Indians,  86,  88 

Schumacher,  Pedro,  26 

Secretariat  General:  function  of,  215; 
members  of,  215 

Securities  Commission — National  Finan- 
cial Corporation,  138;  role  of,  138 

Senac.  See  National  Communications 
Secretariat 

Senate,  157,  159;  military  in,  189;  reor- 
ganization of,  159;  representatives  of 
employer  groups  in,  190 

Sendip.  See  National  Secretariat  for  Pub- 
lic Information 

serrano  economy,  14 

serranos,  14,  29,  37,  67,  68,  69 

servants:  subordination  of,  71 

service  sector,  118,  136-37;  parts  of,  136 

Seville,  11 

shamans,  89 

sharecroppers:  acquisition  of  land  by,  76 
sharecropping,  xxiii,  74 
Short-Range  Planning,  Directorate  of, 
166 

shrimp:  revenue  from,  110;  value  of,  149 

Shuar  Indians,  140 

Shultz,  George  P.,  199 

Sierra,  xxi,  10,  12,  54,  190;  agriculture  in, 
104,  123,  126,  128;  archaeological  sites 
in,  4;  climate  in,  59,  51;  and  Costa,  eco- 
nomic distinction  between,  71,  103; 
crafts  produced  in,  78;  death  of  inhabi- 
tants of,  by  European  diseases,  13-14; 
described,  57;  elite  in,  71;  encomienda 


301 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


system  in,  121;  forestry  in,  130;  high- 
way transportation  through,  143;  Indi- 
ans in,  84;  landowners  in,  191;  land 
reform  in,  72;  land  tenure  in,  122;  land 
use  in,  120;  lifestyle  of,  71;  livestock  rais- 
ing in,  128-29;  migration  of  peasants 
from,  54,  67,  68-70;  mining  in,  133;  po- 
litics in,  156,  157,  180,  186;  population, 
67,  68-70;  rainfall  in,  61;  reflection  of 
pre-Columbian  Ecuador  in,  3;  rivers 
and  streams  in,  58;  temperatures  in,  61; 
textile  industry  in,  136;  universities  in, 
96;  volcanos  in,  57;  white  elite  in,  53 
Sierra  regionalism  (see  also  Quito),  3,  156 
Social  Christian  Movement  (MSC),  35, 
183,  184 

Social  Christian  Party  (PSC),  182,  184 
Social  Development,  Undersecretariat  of, 
166 

Socialist  International,  202 
Socialist  Party,  238 
Social  Welfare,  Ministry  of,  99,  232 
South  American  Development  Company, 
30 

Soviet  Union,  200,  202 

Spain,  208;  invasion  of,  by  Napoleon,  16 

Spanish  colonizers,  83 

Special  Commission  on  Human  Rights 
of  the  Ecuadorian  National  Congress: 
human  rights  complaints  investigated 
by,  242,  245-46;  prison  conditions  in- 
vestigated by,  247 

state  of  emergency:  defined,  163 

State  Railways  Company,  142 

stock  exchanges,  138-39 

strikes,  119-20,  194;  issues  in,  120,  237 

students:  decline  in  impact  of,  195;  dem- 
onstrations by,  194;  role  of,  in  politi- 
cal process,  194-95 

subrogation,  order  of,  165 

suburbio  (squatter  settlements),  xxii,  69- 
70 

sucre,  115;  devaluation  of,  xxiv,  107,  111, 

116,  150,  237;  exchange  rate,  115 
Sucre  Alcala,  Antonio  Jose  de,  17-18, 

208;  death  of,  19 
Sucumbfos  Province,  186 
suffrage  (see  also  voting),  157,  158;  under 

Constitution  of  1979,  160 
sugarcane,  104,  123;  production  of,  126 
Summer  Institute  of  Linguistics,  94 
Superior  Courts,  162,  186;  duties  of, 

171-72 


Supreme  Council  of  Government,  43,  44, 
213 

Supreme  Court  of  Justice  (CSJ),  161, 
165,  168,  169,  170,  215,  244;  nomina- 
tions to,  171;  reforms  by,  171;  responsi- 
bilities of,  162,  171;  role  of,  in  deciding 
constitutionality,  156,  171 

Supreme  Electoral  Tribunal  (TSE),  45, 
159,  160,  161,  167,  169;  dissolution  of 
political  parties  by,  179;  as  election 
overseer,  175;  responsibilities  of,  175- 
76,  178 

Sweden,  202 

Tamayo,  Jose  Luis,  27 

TAME.  See  Ecuadorian  Military  Air 

Transport 
TASS,  141 

Taura  Air  Base,  185,  214,  224 

Tawantinsuyu,  5,  9;  defeat  of,  by  con- 
quistadors, 84 

TCA.  See  Contentious  Administrative 
Tribunal 

tea,  127 

Technical  and  Financial  Cooperation, 
Directorate  of,  166 

telephone  system:  locations,  13-40;  num- 
ber of  lines  in,  139;  problems  with,  139; 
quality  of,  140;  services,  140;  trunks, 
140 

television  stations,  141,  197 

Terrible  Year  (1859),  21 

terrorism,  225:  by  AVC,  237;  from 

Colombia,  211 
Texaco-Gulf  petroleum  concession,  42, 

43,  224 
Texaco  Petroleum,  131 
textile  industry,  134;  location  of,  136; 

under  Spanish  colonial  era,  14 
TGC.  See  Tribunal  of  Constitutional 

Guarantees 
Third  World,  198,  199,  236 
tobacco,  104,  128 
Topa,  5 

Torrijos  Herrera,  Omar,  47 
tourism,  139 

TPEs.  See  Provincial  Electoral  Tribunals 
trade,  148-51;  deficit,  110;  dependence 

on,  148;  in  Guayaquil,  14;  partners, 

150;  in  Quito,  103 
Trans-Ecuadorian  Pipeline,  xxiii,  103, 

222;  description  of,  105;  destruction  of, 


302 


Index 


by  earthquake  of  1987,  104,  110,  146; 
repair  of,  132;  volume  carried  over,  132 

transportation:  air,  143-44;  under  Gar- 
cia Moreno,  23;  highway,  143;  infra- 
structure, 113;  rail,  142;  truck,  143; 
water,  145 

Treasury,  117 

Treaty  of  1829,  18 

Treaty  of  Mapasingue,  21 

Tribunal  of  Constitutional  Guarantees 
(TGC),  156,  159,  160,  161,  163,  168, 
171,  172-73;  appointments  to,  172; 
Constitution  interpreted  by,  172; 
human  rights  complaints  investigated 
by,  242,  243;  members  of,  172-73; 
powers  of,  173;  requirements  for,  173; 
rights  of,  173 

Tribunal  of  Crimes,  145 

Troop  Training  School,  242 

tropical  diseases,  99 

trucks,  143 

trucking  companies,  143 
Trujillo,  Spain,  7,  10 
Tumbes,  Peru,  8 
"tuna  war,"  35,  41,  198,  234 
Tungurahua  Province:  archaeological 
sites  in,  4 

UDP.  See  Popular  Democratic  Union 

UGTE.  See  General  Union  of  Ecuador- 
ian Workers 

Ultimas  Noticias,  197 

underemployment,  xxiv,  118-19 

UNE.  See  National  Union  of  Teachers 

unemployment,  xxiv,  118-19 

unionization,  192;  benefits  of,  80;  by 
peasants,  74,  76 

United  Holland  Bank,  138 

United  Nations,  197,  200,  201;  Security 
Council  Resolutions  242  and  338,  202 

United  Press  International,  141 

United  States,  26,  36,  190,  198,  244;  Al- 
faro's  affinity  for,  26;  assistance  of, 
fighting  narcotics  traffic,  244;  Depart- 
ment of  State,  161;  Febres  Cordero's 
affinity  for,  155;  Foreign  Trade  Act  of 
1974,  198;  military  aid,  210,  218,  234; 
military  influence  of,  234;  military  in- 
tervention in  Panama,  201;  military 
materiel  acquired  from,  223,  236,  237; 
military  training,  234;  student  protests 
against,  237;  as  trading  partner,  150 


United  States  Army  Command  and 
General  Staff  College,  219 

United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disar- 
mament Agency  (ACDA),  231,  237 

United  States  Department  of  State,  197; 
support  of,  for  South  American  De- 
velopment Company,  30 

United  States  Drug  Enforcement  Ad- 
ministration, 244 

United  States-Ecuador  relations,  198- 
200;  basis  for,  198;  irritants  in,  198; 
"tuna  war,"  34,  41,  198 

United  States  Military  Assistance  Pro- 
gram, 223 

United  States  Military  Group,  234 

United  States  National  Guard,  234 

United  States  Naval  Academy,  234 

United  States  Navy,  244 

United  Workers  Front  (FUT),  48,  193, 
194 

UPP.  See  People's  Patriotic  Union 
Urbina,  Jose  Maria,  20,  xxii,  24;  eman- 
cipation of  slaves  by,  21,  209;  liberal- 
ism under,  20-21;  invasion  attempted 
by,  23 

Urbina  Jado,  Francisco,  27 

Uruguay,  200 

utility  infrastructure,  113 


Valdivia  culture,  4 

Valverde,  Fray  Vincente  de,  9 

Vargas  incident:  accusation  by,  of  corrup- 
tion, xxv,  185,  214;  abduction  of  Febres 
Cordero  in  response  to,  xxv,  185,  214; 
court  martial  of,  xxv,  185,  214;  dismis- 
sal of,  xxv,  185,  214;  revolts  led  by, 
xxv,  185,  214 

Vargas  Pazzos,  Frank,  xxv,  185,  214; 
presidential  campaign  of,  xxv;  185 

Vatican:  Ecuador's  first  concordat  with, 
22 

Veintemilla,  Ignacio  de,  209;  as  presi- 
dent, 24 

Velasco  Ibarra,  Jose  Maria,  30,  33,  42, 
155,  159,  183;  autogolpe  by,  40,  160, 
212-13;  constitution  suspended  by, 
160;  death  of,  45;  overthrow  of,  in 
1935,  30,  36,  41;  party  organized  by, 
183;  political  polarization  under,  36;  as 
president,  30,  31,  34-35,  35-36,  40; 
problems   under,    33;    promises  of, 


303 


Ecuador:  A  Country  Study 


31-33,  35-36,  37;  Rio  Protocol  re- 
nounced by,  36,  202 

velasquistas,  36,  41,  183 

Venezuela,  10,  18,  130,  198,  201;  emer- 
gency assistance  of,  233;  military  aid 
of,  to  Guayaquil  rebellion,  17;  relations 
with,  201;  withdrawal  of,  from  Con- 
federation of  Gran  Colombia,  18 

Venezuelans,  209 

vice  president:  election  of,  175;  require- 
ments of,  165;  restrictions  on,  165 
viceroy  alty,  11 
Vistazo,  197 

volcanos:  active,  58;  in  islands,  58;  in  the 
Sierra,  57 

Voltaire:  influence  of  works  of,  on  Ecu- 
ador, 16 

Vote  Receiving  Committees  (JRVs):  as 
election  overseer,  175;  function  of,  176 

voting  {see  also  suffrage),  157,  160;  be- 
havior, xxii;  obligatory,  175 

wage  labor,  79 

War  of  the  Pacific,  24 

water  transport:  ports,  145;  routes,  145 


whites,  xxi,  84-86,  87,  88;  family  and  kin, 
90-92 

women:  discrimination  against,  161;  in 
military,  226;  obligations  of,  160;  rights 
of,  158,  159,  161 

workers,  54,  80-83;  autogestional  sector, 
44;  description  of,  80;  divisions  in,  80; 
general  strike  by,  in  1923,  28;  influence 
of  migration  on,  82;  origins  of,  80;  po- 
litical influence  of,  192-94;  rights  of, 
119;  subordination  of,  71;  types  of,  80 

World  Bank,  198;  loan  from,  110,  148 

World  Vision,  94 

World  War  II,  223,  234;  Ecuadorian 
cooperation  with  Allies  in,  30,  210 


yanaperos:  described,  74 
Yerovi  Indaburu,  Clemente,  40 
Yugoslavia,  202 
Yumbos,  89 


zambos,  12 

Zamora-Chinchipe  Province,  133 
Zavala  Baquerizo,  Jorge,  40 


304 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

TaDan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-1 58 

OiCLIlUalUVaJua 

550-79 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

305 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

306 


PIN:  004216-000 


