area  handbook  series 

Egypt 

a  country  study 


s 


Egypt 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Helen  Chapin  Metz 
Research  Completed 
December  1990 


On  the  cover:  A  representation  of  Tutankhamen  (1347- 

1337  B.C.),  pharaoh  of  the  New  Kingdom,  on  his  throne 


Fifth  Edition,  First  Printing,  1991. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Egypt:  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Helen  Chapin  Metz.  —  5th  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294)  (DA 
pam  ;  550-43) 

Previous  ed.  has  statement  of  responsibility:  Foreign  Area 
Studies,  the  American  University  :  edited  by  Richard  F.  Nyrop. 
"Research  completed  December  1990." 
Includes  bibiliography  (pp.  369-391)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0729-1 

1.  Egypt.  I.  Metz,  Helen  Chapin,  1928-  .  II.  Library  of 
Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Series.  IV.  Series: 

DA  pam  ;  550-43. 
DT46.E32       1991  91-29876 
962— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-43 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the  writers 
of  the  1983  edition  of  Egypt:  A  Country  Study,  edited  by  Richard 
F.  Nyrop.  Their  work  provided  general  background  for  the  present 
volume. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  government 
agencies  and  private  institutions  who  gave  of  their  time,  research 
materials,  and  expertise  in  the  production  of  this  book.  These  in- 
dividuals included  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Country 
Studies — Area  Handbook  program  for  the  Department  of  the  Army. 
The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  members  of  the  Federal  Research 
Division  staff  who  contributed  directly  to  the  preparation  of  the 
manuscript.  These  people  included  Thomas  Collelo,  the  substan- 
tive reviewer  of  all  the  graphic  and  textual  material;  Sandra  W. 
Meditz,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  and  Martha  E.  Hopkins  and  Marilyn  Majeska,  who 
managed  editing  and  book  production. 

Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text  were  editorial  assistants  Bar- 
bara Edgerton  and  Izella  Watson;  Richard  Kollodge  and  Ruth  Nie- 
land,  who  edited  chapters;  Beverly  Wolpert,  who  performed  the 
prepublication  editorial  review;  and  Joan  C.  Cook,  who  compiled 
the  index.  Linda  Peterson  of  the  Library  of  Congress  Compos- 
ing Unit  prepared  the  camera-ready  copy  under  the  supervision 
of  Peggy  Pixley. 

Graphics  were  prepared  by  David  P.  Cabitto,  and  Timothy  L. 
Merrill  reviewed  map  drafts.  David  P.  Cabitto  and  Greenhorne 
and  O'Mara  prepared  the  final  maps.  Special  thanks  are  owed  to 
Marty  Ittner,  who  prepared  the  illustrations  on  the  title  page  of 
each  chapter,  and  David  P.  Cabitto,  who  did  the  cover  art. 

The  authors  would  like  to  thank  Ly  H.  Burnham,  who  assisted 
with  demographic  data.  Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the 
generosity  of  the  many  individuals  and  public  and  private  agen- 
cies, especially  the  Press  and  Information  Bureau  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt,  who  allowed  their  photographs  to  be  used  in 
this  study. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Mary  Ann  Fay 

ANCIENT  EGYPT   5 

The  Predynastic  Period  and  the  First  and 

Second  Dynasties,  6000-2686  B.C   5 

The  Old  Kingdom,  Middle  Kingdom,  and  Second 

Intermediate  Period,  2686  to  1552  B.C   8 

Pyramid  Building  in  the  Old  and  Middle 

Kingdoms    9 

The  New  Kingdom  and  Third  Intermediate 

Period,  1552-664  B.C   10 

Art  and  Architecture  in  the  New  Kingdom   11 

The  Cult  of  the  Sun  God  and  Akhenaten's 

Monotheism   12 

The  Late  Period,  664-323  B.C   12 

PTOLEMAIC,  ROMAN,  AND  BYZANTINE  EGYPT, 

332  B.C.-A.D.  642    13 

The  Alexandrian  Conquest    13 

The  Ptolemaic  Period    14 

Egypt  under  Rome  and  Byzantium, 

30  B.C.-A.D.  640    15 

MEDIEVAL  EGYPT    18 

The  Arab  Conquest,  639-41    18 

The  Tulinids,  Ikhshidids,  Fatimids, 

and  Ayyubids,  868-1260    21 

The  Mamluks,  1250-1517    23 

EGYPT  UNDER  THE  OTTOMAN  EMPIRE    24 

MODERN  EGYPT   25 

The  Neo-Mamluk  Beylicate,  1760-98    25 

The  French  Invasion  and  Occupation,  1798-1801    ...  26 

vii 


Muhammad  Ali,  1805-48    28 

Abbas  Hilmi  I,  1848-54  and  Said,  1854-63    31 

Social  Change  in  the  Nineteenth  Century   32 

FROM  AUTONOMY  TO  OCCUPATION:  ISMAIL, 

TAWFIQ,  AND  THE  URABI  REVOLT    35 

Khedive  Ismail,  1863-79    35 

From  Intervention  to  Occupation,  1876-82    37 

FROM  OCCUPATION  TO  NOMINAL  INDEPENDENCE, 

1882-1923    42 

The  Occupiers   42 

Economy  and  Society  under  Occupation   43 

Egypt  under  the  Protectorate  and  the 

1919  Revolution   46 

THE  ERA  OF  LIBERAL  CONSTITUTIONALISM 

AND  PARTY  POLITICS    49 

The  Rise  and  Decline  of  the  Wafd,  1924-39    49 

Egypt  During  the  War,  1939-45    52 

On  the  Threshold  of  Revolution,  1945-52    53 

The  Revolution  and  the  Early  Years  of  the 

New  Government,  1952-56    56 

Egypt  and  the  Arab  World    65 

Nasser  and  Arab  Socialism    66 

Egypt,  the  Arabs,  and  Israel    67 

The  War  with  Israel,  1967    68 

THE  AFTERMATH  OF  THE  WAR    69 

Internal  Relations    69 

External  Relations    71 

Nasser's  Legacy   74 

Sadat  Takes  Over,  1970-73    76 

October  1973  War   77 

Political  Developments,  1971-78    80 

Egypt's  New  Direction    82 

Peace  with  Israel    83 

The  Aftermath  of  Camp  David  and  the 

Assassination  of  Sadat    85 

MUBARAK  AND  THE  MIDDLE  WAY   86 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   91 

Eric  Hooglund 

GEOGRAPHY    95 

Physical  Size  and  Borders    95 

Natural  Regions    96 

Climate    102 


viii 


POPULATION    104 

Population  Control  Policies    104 

Major  Cities    105 

Emigration    108 

Minorities    110 

SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION   113 

Urban  Society    114 

Rural  Society   119 

FAMILY  AND  KINSHIP   124 

Importance  of  Kinship   124 

Attitudes  Toward  Women    127 

Changing  Status  of  Women   130 

RELIGION   130 

Islam    130 

Coptic  Church   140 

Other  Religious  Minorities    143 

EDUCATION    143 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   148 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    155 

Sharif  S.  Elmusa 

STRUCTURE,  GROWTH,  AND  DEVELOPMENT 

OF  THE  ECONOMY   158 

Infrastructure   160 

Transportation   160 

Communications    165 

THE  ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT   165 

Mubarak's  Gradualism?    167 

Development  Planning    168 

Pricing  and  Subsidy    169 

Exchange  Rates   170 

Public  Finance   171 

Banking,  Credit,  and  Inflation    173 

LABOR   175 

Employment    175 

Wages    178 

AGRICULTURE    179 

The  Food  Gap   180 

Land  Ownership  and  Reform    182 

Land  Reclamation  and  Loss    184 

Pricing  Policy    186 

Cropping  Patterns,  Production,  and  Yield    188 

Technology    193 


IX 


ENERGY,  MINING,  AND  MANUFACTURING    197 

Energy   197 

Mining    200 

Manufacturing   200 

FOREIGN  TRADE    207 

Exports    208 

Imports    208 

Trade  Partners    209 

BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS  AND  MAIN  SOURCES 

OF  FOREIGN  EXCHANGE    210 

Petroleum    210 

Suez  Canal    211 

Remittances   212 

Tourism   214 

Current  Account  Balance    216 

Capital  Account  and  Capital  Grants    216 

Direct  Foreign  Investment   217 

Loans    218 

DEBT  AND  RESTRUCTURING    220 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   227 

Raymond  A.  Hinnebusch,  Jr. 

THE  DOMINANT  EXECUTIVE  AND  THE  POWER 

ELITE    230 

The  Presidency    230 

The  President  and  the  Power  Elite    232 

The  Prime  Minister,  the  Council  of  Ministers, 

and  the  Policy-making  Process   236 

The  Road  to  Power:  Recruitment  and  Composition 

of  the  Elite   237 

Elite  Ideology    241 

Politics  among  Elites    244 

The  Bureaucracy  and  Policy  Implementation    251 

Local  Government   253 

THE  SUBORDINATE  BRANCHES:  THE  REGIME 

AND  ITS  CONSTITUENCY    254 

Parliament   255 

The  Judiciary,  Civil  Rights,  and  the  Rule  of  Law   .  .  .  258 

The  Political  Role  of  the  Media    260 

Interest  Groups    262 

CONTROLLING  THE  MASS  POLITICAL  ARENA    265 

The  ''Dominant  Party"  System    267 


x 


The  Limits  of  Incorporation:  The  Rise  of  Political 

Islam  and  the  Continuing  Role  of  Repression   275 

FOREIGN  POLICY    279 

The  Determinants  of  Foreign  Policy    279 

Foreign  Policy  Decision  Making    281 

The  Development  of  Foreign  Policy    282 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    291 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

MILITARY  HERITAGE    294 

The  Egyptian  Military  in  World  War  II   295 

First  Arab-Israeli  War   296 

The  1956  War   296 

The  June  1967  War    297 

War  of  Attrition  and  the  October  1973  War   299 

SECURITY  CONCERNS  AND  STRATEGIC 

PERSPECTIVES   302 

THE  MILITARY  IN  NATIONAL  LIFE   303 

THE  ARMED  FORCES    305 

Army   306 

Air  Force   311 

Navy    313 

Air  Defense  Force    315 

Training  and  Education    316 

Conscription  and  Reserves    319 

Conditions  of  Service   320 

Defense  Spending    322 

Military  Justice    324 

Uniforms  and  Insignia   325 

ARMED  FORCES  PRODUCTION    325 

Production  of  Civilian  Goods    325 

Defense  Industry    328 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  ASSISTANCE    331 

INTERNAL  SECURITY    334 

Muslim  Extremism    334 

Leftist  Organizations    336 

Police   337 

Intelligence  Services   341 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   342 

The  Judicial  System    342 

Incidence  of  Crime    344 

Drug  Trafficking    346 

The  Penal  System    347 


xi 


Appendix.  Tables   351 

Bibliography    369 

Glossary    393 

Index    397 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Egypt,  1990    xxii 

2  Ancient  Egypt   6 

3  Natural  Regions    98 

4  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex, 

1986    106 

5  Transportation  System,  1990    162 

6  The  Presidency,  1990    234 

7  Principal  Military  Installations  in  the  Sinai  Peninsula, 

1989    298 

8  Organization  of  National  Defense,  1989    309 

9  Military  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1990    326 


xii 


Preface 


This  edition  of  Egypt:  A  Country  Study  replaces  the  previous  edi- 
tion published  in  1983.  Like  its  predecessor,  the  present  book  at- 
tempts to  treat  in  a  compact  and  objective  manner  the  dominant 
historical,  social,  economic,  political,  and  national  security  aspects 
of  contemporary  Egypt.  Sources  of  information  included  scholar- 
ly books,  journals,  and  monographs;  official  reports  and  documents 
of  governments  and  international  organizations;  and  foreign  and 
domestic  newspapers  and  periodicals.  Relatively  up-to-date  eco- 
nomic data  were  available  from  several  sources,  but  the  sources 
were  not  always  in  agreement. 

Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  com- 
ments on  some  of  the  more  valuable  sources  for  further  reading 
appear  at  the  conclusion  of  each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given 
in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those 
who  are  unfamiliar  with  the  metric  system  (see  table  1,  Appen- 
dix). Landholdings,  however,  are  presented  infeddans,  a  unit  of 
measure  that  remains  in  general  use  although  Egypt  officially  uses 
the  metric  system.  One  feddan  equals  1.038  acres.  The  Glossary 
provides  brief  definitions  of  terms,  such  as  feddan,  that  may  be  un- 
familiar to  the  general  reader. 

The  information  available  on  ancient  and  modern  Egypt  is 
detailed  and  voluminous.  Limitations  of  space  and  time,  however, 
precluded  the  presentation  of  anything  more  than  a  short  survey. 

The  transliteration  of  Arabic  words  and  phrases  posed  a  partic- 
ular problem.  For  many  of  the  words — such  as  Muhammad,  Mus- 
lim, Quran,  and  shaykh — the  authors  followed  a  modified  version 
of  the  system  adopted  by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographic 
Names  and  the  Permanent  Committee  on  Geographic  Names  for 
British  Official  Use,  known  as  the  BGN/PCGN  system;  the  modifi- 
cation entails  the  omission  of  all  diacritical  markings  and  hyphens. 
In  numerous  instances,  however,  the  names  of  persons  or  places 
are  so  well  known  by  another  spelling  that  to  have  used  the 
BGN/PCGN  system  may  have  created  confusion.  For  example, 
the  reader  will  find  Cairo  rather  than  Al  Qahirah,  Giza  rather  than 
Al  Jizah,  Suez  rather  than  As  Suways,  and  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser 
rather  than  Jamal  Abd  an  Nasr.  For  some  place-names,  two  trans- 
literations have  been  provided  (see  fig.  1). 


xiii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt. 
Short  Form:  Egypt. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Egyptians. 
Capital:  Cairo. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  1  million  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Four  major  regions:  Nile  Valley  and  Delta,  where 
about  99  percent  of  population  lives;  Western  Desert;  Eastern  Desert; 
and  Sinai  Peninsula. 

Climate:  Except  for  modest  amounts  of  rainfall  along  Mediterra- 
nean coast,  precipitation  ranges  from  minimal  to  nonexistent.  Mild 


xv 


winters  (November  to  April)  and  hot  summers  (May  to  October). 

Society 

Population:  Estimated  at  more  than  52.5  million  in  mid- 1990, 
mostly  concentrated  along  banks  of  Nile  River.  Annual  growth  rate 
estimated  at  2.6  percent. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Education  compulsory  for  basic  nine- 
year  cycle  but  attendance  not  enforced;  approximately  16  percent 
of  school-age  children  did  not  attend.  Literacy  approximately  45 
percent  in  1990. 

Health  and  Welfare:  Ministry  of  Health  provided  health  care  at 
variety  of  public  medical  facilities.  Urban-rural  distribution  of  health 
care  generally  biased  in  favor  of  larger  cities.  Average  nutrition 
compared  favorably  with  most  middle-  and  low-income  countries. 
Average  life  expectancy  at  birth  fifty-nine  years  for  men  and  sixty 
years  for  women  in  1989. 

Language:  Arabic. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Egyptians,  beduins,  Greeks,  Nubians,  Armeni- 
ans, and  Berbers. 

Religion:  Almost  90  percent  Sunni  Muslims,  8.5  percent  Coptic 
Christians,  1.5  percent  other  Christians. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$45.08  billion,  or  US$867 
per  capita  in  1988.  Economy  experienced  sluggish  growth  after 
mid-1980s. 

Agriculture:  Single  largest  source  of  employment;  contributed  15 
percent  of  GDP  in  1987.  Major  crops  by  area  planted  (in  descending 
order):  clover  for  livestock  feed,  corn,  wheat,  vegetables,  rice,  cot- 
ton, and  fruit.  Heavily  dependent  on  food  imports.  Some  reforms 
in  pricing  implemented  in  1980s. 

Industry:  Contributed  34  percent  of  GDP  in  1987.  Share  of 
manufacturing  in  GDP  12  percent;  sector  stagnated  in  1980s. 
Manufacturing  produced  mainly  consumer  goods  but  also  some 
basic  industries  such  as  iron  and  steel,  aluminum,  and  cement. 
Manufacturing  dominated  by  public  sector;  consensus  that  sector 
needed  reform.  Oil  share  of  GDP  fell  considerably  with  crash  of 
oil  prices  in  late  1985.  Oil  production  averaged  42.7  tons  per  year 
between  1984  and  1988.  Gas  acquiring  added  importance  in  1980s. 


xvi 


Exports:  US$4.8  billion  in  1988,  of  which  oil  was  US$3.1  billion. 
Textiles  US$458  million  and  other  manufacturing  US$810  mil- 
lion. Cotton  (major  export  before  late  1970s)  US$310  million.  Ex- 
ports stagnated  in  1980s. 

Imports:  US$10.6  billion,  of  which  intermediate  goods  US$3.7 
billion,  capital  goods  US$3  billion,  consumer  goods  US$2  billion, 
and  food  and  agriculture  US$1.7  billion.  Trade  deficit  increased 
rapidly  in  first  half  of  1980s  and  stabilized  in  second  half. 

Debt:  Civilian  US$35  billion  in  1988  (forecast);  military  US$10.8 
billion.  Negotiations  with  International  Monetary  Fund  continu- 
ing in  early  1990  on  debt  rescheduling  and  economic  restructuring. 

Currency:  Egyptian  pound  (£E)  consists  of  100  piasters.  In  early 
1990,  worth  between  US$1 .00  and  US$1 .50  depending  on  applica- 
ble exchange  rate. 

Fiscal  Year:  Since  July  1,  1980,  July  1  through  June  30. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Railroads:  More  than  4,800  kilometers  of  track,  950  kilometers 
of  which  double-tracked.  Bulk  of  system  standard  gauge  (1.435 
meters),  but  347  kilometers  narrow  gauge  (0.75  meter).  Twenty- 
five -kilometer  suburban  transit  link  between  Cairo  and  industrial 
suburb  of  Hulwan  electrified.  Southern  part  of  Cairo  Metro  opened 
1987;  northeast  line  opened  1989.  Ferry  at  Aswan  connects  Egyp- 
tian Railways  to  Sudanese  system. 

Roads:  More  than  49,000  kilometers,  of  which  about  15,000  kilo- 
meters paved,  2,500  kilometers  gravel,  31,500  kilometers  earthen. 

Inland  Waterways:  About  3,500  kilometers,  consisting  mainly  of 
Nile  River  and  several  canals  in  Delta. 

Suez  Canal:  About  160  kilometers  for  international  shipping  be- 
tween Red  and  Mediterranean  seas.  Reopened  in  1975.  Capable 
of  handling  ships  of  150,000  deadweight  tons  laden  and  16  meters 
draft.  In  1987  17,541  ships  transited  canal  with  257,000  tons  of 
cargo,  earning  Egypt  US$1.22  billion. 

Ports:  Alexandria  main  port.  Port  Said  and  Suez  other  two  large 
ports.  Phosphates  shipped  from  Bur  Safajah  on  the  Red  Sea.  Port 
near  Alexandria  remained  under  construction  in  1990. 

Pipelines:  About  1,400  kilometers  for  domestic  crude  oil  and  refined 
products  plus  about  600  kilometers  for  natural  gas. 


xvn 


Airports:  Sixty- six  airfields  but  only  Cairo  and  Alexandria  han- 
dled international  traffic. 

Telecommunications:  Well  developed  radio  and  television  facili- 
ties; shortage  of  telephones.  Numerous  international  communica- 
tions links. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Constitution  of  1971  delegates  majority  of  power  to 
president,  who  dominates  two-chamber  legislature — lower  People's 
Assembly  and  upper  Consultative  Council,  created  in  1980  from 
the  old  Central  Committee  of  the  Arab  Socialist  Union — and  judi- 
ciary, although  each  constitutionally  independent.  President  pos- 
sesses virtually  unrestricted  power  to  appoint  and  dismiss  officials, 
including  vice  president  or  vice  presidents,  prime  minister  and 
members  of  Council  of  Ministers,  military  officers,  and  governors 
of  the  twenty- six  administrative  subdivisions  known  as  governorates. 

Politics:  President  Husni  Mubarak  (1981-  ),  former  military 
officer,  as  were  his  predecessors:  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser  (1954-70) 
and  Anwar  as  Sadat  (1970-81).  Nasser  was  leader  and  Sadat  mem- 
ber of  Free  Officers'  group  that  overthrew  monarchy  in  1952  Revo- 
lution. President  dominated  National  Democratic  Party  formed  in 
1977.  Opposition  composed  of  number  of  secular  and  religious  par- 
ties in  legislature,  of  which  Muslim  Brotherhood  was  the  chief,  and 
some  nonparliamentary  Islamic  extremist  groups. 

International  Organizations:  Member  of  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies;  Organization  of  African  Unity;  and  Nonaligned 
Movement.  Founding  member  of  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab 
League),  headquartered  in  Cairo  until  after  Egypt  signed  peace 
treaty  with  Israel  in  March  1979.  Arab  League  expelled  Egypt  and 
moved  headquarters  out  of  country.  In  1990  Arab  League  head- 
quarters returned  to  Cairo. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  (1989):  Total  personnel  on  active  duty  445,000, 
including  draftees  mostly  serving  for  three  years.  Reserves  totaled 
about  300,000.  Component  services:  army  of  320,000  (estimated 
180,000  conscripts),  navy  of  20,000  including  2,000  Coast  Guard 
(10,000  conscripts),  and  air  force  of  30,000  (10,000  conscripts). 
Air  Defense  Force  separate  service  of  80,000  (50,000  conscripts). 

Major  Tactical  Military  Units  (1988):  Army:  four  armored  di- 
visions, six  mechanized  infantry  divisions,  two  infantry  divisions, 


xvm 


four  independent  infantry  brigades,  three  mechanized  brigades, 
one  armored  brigade,  two  air  mobile  brigades,  one  paratroop 
brigade,  Republican  Guard  armored  brigade,  two  heavy  mortar 
brigades,  fourteen  artillery  brigades,  two  surface-to-surface  mis- 
sile (SSM)  regiments,  and  seven  commando  groups. 

Navy:  Twelve  submarines,  one  destroyer  (training),  five  frigates, 
twenty-five  fast-attack  craft  (missile),  eighteen  fast-attack  craft 
(torpedo),  minesweepers,  and  landing  ships. 

Air  Force:  About  440  combat  aircraft  and  72  armed  helicopters; 
force  organized  into  one  bomber  squadron,  ten  fighter- ground  at- 
tack squadrons,  thirteen  fighter  squadrons,  two  reconnaissance 
squadrons,  and  fifteen  helicopter  squadrons,  plus  electronic  moni- 
toring, early  warning,  transport,  and  training  aircraft.  Air  Defense 
Force  organized  into  more  than  230  battalions  of  antiaircraft  guns 
and  SAMs. 

Military  Equipment  (1989):  Tanks  and  armored  personnel  ve- 
hicles a  mix  of  older  Soviet  and  newer  United  States  models.  Other 
major  equipment  included  Soviet  artillery  and  mortars;  Soviet, 
French,  United  States,  and  British  antitank  rockets  and  missiles; 
and  mostly  Soviet  tactical  air  defense  weapons.  Egypt  planned  to 
coproduce  with  United  States  540  Abrams  M1A1  tanks  beginning 
in  1991.  Air  force  fighters  included  F-16s  and  F-4s  from  United 
States  and  Mirage  2000s  from  France,  backed  by  large  number 
of  older  Soviet  designs.  Most  fighting  ships  of  Soviet  or  Chinese 
origin,  although  fleet  included  two  modern  frigates  built  in  Spain 
and  six  British  missile  boats.  Air  Defense  Force  had  more  than  600 
Soviet  SA-2  and  SA-3  SAMs  plus  108  improved  Hawk  SAMs  from 
United  States. 

Defense  Budget:  Authoritative  data  not  available  although  minister 
of  defense  claimed  spending  £E2.4  billion  or  10  percent  of  total 
government  outlays  in  1989.  Other  sources  believed  defense  ex- 
penditures twice  as  high  as  claimed,  even  excluding  US$1.3  bil- 
lion in  military  aid  from  United  States,  aid  from  Saudi  Arabia, 
and  income  from  other  sources  such  as  foreign  sales  of  domestic 
defense  industry. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  Principal  security  agencies — national 
police  force  of  more  than  about  122,000  members  and  Central  Secu- 
rity Forces,  a  paramilitary  body  of  about  300,000,  mosdy  conscripts, 
which  augmented  regular  police  in  guarding  buildings  and  strategic 
sites  and  controlling  demonstrations.  Several  other  government  agen- 
cies had  own  law  enforcement  bodies.  General  Directorate  for  State 


xix 


Security  Investigations  main  intelligence  organization  monitoring 
suspected  subversive  and  opposition  groups  and  suppressing  Is- 
lamic extremists. 


xx 


i  istrat i ve 


Divisions  of  Egypt 


ORATES 

>rnorates 

ro  (Al  Qahirah) 

<andria  (Al  Iskandariyah) 

t  Said  (Bur  Said) 

•z  (As  Suways) 

ypt 

ailia  (Al  Ismailiyah) 
\uhayrah 
nietta  (Dumyat) 
r  ash  Shaykh 
iharbiyah 
Daqahliyah 
Sharqiyah 
Hnufiyah 
lalyubiyah 

ypt 

i(AUizah) 

ayyum 

i  Suwayf 

linya 

ut 

aj 

3 

fan 

lovernorates 

'  Sea  (Al  Bahr  al  Ahmar) 

f  Valley  (Al  Wadi  al  Jadid) 

Wh 

\h  Sinai 
th  Sinai 


GOVERNORATE 
CAPITALS 

Cairo 

Alexandria 
Port  Said 
Suez 


Ismailia 

Damanhur 

Damietta 

Kafr  ash  Shaykh 

Tanta 

Al  Mansurah 
Az  Zaqaziq 
Shibin  a  I  Kawm 
Banha 


Giza 

Al  Fayyum 

Bani  Suwayf 

Al  Minya 

Asyut 

Suhaj 

Qina 

Aswan 


Al  Ghardaqah 
Al  Kharijah 
Marsa  Matruh 
Al  Arish 
At  Tur 


Introduction 


OCCUPYING  A  FOCAL  GEOGRAPHIC  bridge  linking  Africa 
and  Asia,  contemporary  Egypt  is  the  inheritor  of  a  civilization  dating 
back  more  than  6,000  years.  The  unification  of  Upper  Egypt  and 
Lower  Egypt  in  the  third  millennium  B.C.  required  the  develop- 
ment of  administrative  and  religious  structures,  and  the  monuments 
that  remain  demonstrate  the  mathematical,  astronomical,  and  ar- 
chitectural skills  attained  in  constructing  rock  tombs,  temples,  and 
pyramids — the  latter  dedicated  to  the  divine  kings,  the  pharaohs. 

Egypt's  strategic  location  has  made  it  the  object  of  numerous 
conquests:  by  the  Ptolemies,  Romans,  Greeks,  Arabs,  Fatimids, 
Mamluks,  Ottomans,  and  Napoleon  Bonaparte.  The  most  recent 
conquerors,  the  British,  granted  Egypt  partial  independence  in  1922 
and  withdrew  completely  in  1954.  Of  these  foreign  rules,  the  Arab 
Muslim  conquest,  by  its  arabization  and  Islamization,  had  the 
greatest  impact  on  Egyptian  life  and  culture,  resulting  in  the  rapid 
conversion  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  population  to  Islam 
and  the  spread  of  Sunni  Muslim  religious  and  educational  institu- 
tions. Shia  Islam,  represented  by  the  Fatimid  conquest  in  969,  led 
to  the  founding  the  same  year  of  Al  Azhar,  later  transformed  into 
a  Sunni  theological  school,  and  in  the  1990s  still  regarded  as  the 
outstanding  interpreter  of  Islamic  religious  law  (sharia). 

The  rule  of  Muhammad  Ali  (1805-48),  an  Albanian  officer  in 
the  army  of  the  Ottoman  sultan,  who  succeeded  in  detaching  Egypt 
from  Ottoman  control,  represented  another  major  influence  on 
Egypt's  history.  Muhammad  Ali  encouraged  the  development  of 
Egypt  by  introducing  long-staple  cotton  as  a  major  crop;  by  ex- 
panding Egypt's  infrastructure  through  a  network  of  canals,  irri- 
gation systems,  and  roads;  and  by  promoting  secular  education. 
His  efforts  to  create  a  manufacturing  sector  failed,  however,  in  part 
because  Britain's  tariff  policies  were  designed  to  favor  the  import 
of  raw  materials  to  be  processed  in  Britain. 

For  contemporary  Egypt,  the  Free  Officers'  1952  Revolution, 
spearheaded  by  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser,  has  clearly  been  the  forma- 
tive event.  Nasser's  charismatic  leadership  institutionalized  the  role 
of  the  military  and  created  an  authoritarian  state  that  pursued  goals 
of  "Arab  socialism."  These  goals  centered  on  the  implementation 
of  agrarian  reform,  nationalization  of  key  industries,  a  one-party 
state  (the  Arab  Socialist  Union — ASU)  domestically,  and  closer 
ties  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe  internationally. 


xxiii 


AHminictratiwo   H  i  \/  i  c  i  n  n  c  n  f  Pnunt 

GOVERNORATES 

GOVERNORATE 

CAPITALS 

City  Governorates 

/.  Cairo  (Al  Qahirah) 

Cairo 

2.  Alexandria  (Al  Iskandariyah) 

Alexandria 

3.  Port  Said  (Bur  Said) 

Port  Said 

4,  Suez  (As  Suways) 

Suez 

Lower  Egypt 

5.  Ismailia  (Al  Ismailiyah) 

Ismailia 

6.  Al  Buhayrah 

Damanhur 

7.  Damietta  (Dumyat) 

Damietta 

8.  Kafr  ash  Shaykh 

Kafr  ash  Shaykh 

9.  Al  Gharbiyah 

Tanta 

10.  Ad  Daqahliyah 

Al  Mansurah 

11.  Ash  Sharqiyah 

Az  Zaqaziq 

12.  Al  Minufiyah 

Shibin  al  Kawm 

13.  Al  Qalyubiyah 

Banha 

Upper  Egypt 

14.  Giza  (Al  Jizah) 

Giza 

15.  Al  Fay  yum 

Al  Fay  yum 

16.  Bani  Suwayf 

Bani  Suwayf 

17.  Al  Minya 

Al  Minya 

18.  Asyut 

Asyut 

19.  Suhaj 

Suhaj 

20.  Qina 

Qina 

21.  Aswan 

Aswan 

Frontier  Governorates 

22.  Red  Sea  (Al  Bahr  al  Ahmar) 

Al  Ghardaqah 

23.  New  Valley  (Al  Wadi  al  Jadid) 

Al  Kharijah 

24.  Matruh 

25.  North  Sinai 

Al  Arish 

26.  South  Sinai 

At  Tur 

Major  events  of  Nasser's  regime  included  the  construction  of  the 
Aswan  High  Dam  with  Soviet  aid;  the  take-over  of  the  Suez  Canal 
in  1956,  which  led  to  the  1956  War  and  the  British-French-Israeli 
Tripartite  Invasion  of  the  Sinai  Peninsula  (also  known  as  Sinai); 
and  the  short-lived  Egyptian- Syrian  union  as  the  United  Arab 
Republic  (1958-61).  Egyptian  participation  in  the  June  1967  War 
with  Israel  resulted  in  Egypt's  loss  of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  Sinai  and 
the  so-called  War  of  Attrition  along  the  Suez  Canal  in  1969-70. 

Nasser's  death  brought  to  office  his  vice  president,  Anwar  as 
Sadat,  also  a  military  man  but  more  conservative  in  political  out- 
look than  his  predecessor.  Sadat's  rule  has  been  characterized  as 
patriarchal,  a  return  to  a  traditional  method  of  government  that 
relied  on  clientelism.  Sadat  demilitarized  the  state  in  favor  of  the 
bourgeoisie  and  opened  Egypt  to  capitalism  and  to  the  West  through 
the  infitah  (opening  or  open  door;  see  Glossary)  in  1974.  Sadat  also 
moved  toward  some  democratization  and  constitutionalism,  repre- 
sented by  the  Constitution  of  1971,  which,  however,  concentrated 
power  in  the  hands  of  the  president.  Sadat's  early  successes  in  the 
October  1973  War  with  Israel  made  him  a  popular  hero  and  psy- 
chologically boosted  the  morale  of  Egyptians.  In  an  attempt  to  end 
the  state  of  war  with  Israel,  Sadat  journeyed  to  Jerusalem  in  Novem- 
ber 1977;  as  a  next  step,  through  the  mediation  of  United  States 
president  Jimmy  Carter,  he  signed  the  Camp  David  Accords  in  Sep- 
tember 1978  and  the  Egyptian-Israeli  peace  treaty  in  March  1979. 
These  actions,  however,  and  Sadat's  increasing  repression  of  domes- 
tic opposition,  resulted  in  Egypt's  being  cut  off  from  the  rest  of  the 
Arab  world  and  ultimately  led  to  Sadat's  assassination  by  a  Mus- 
lim extremist  group,  Al  Jihad  (Holy  War),  in  October  1981. 

Husni  Mubarak,  Sadat's  vice  president,  took  over  the  govern- 
ment and  was  initially  regarded  by  many  as  an  interim  president. 
He  demonstrated  a  commitment  to  gradualism  aimed  at  modifying 
and  preserving  the  best  elements  of  his  predecessors'  accomplish- 
ments while  building  domestic  consensus,  tolerating  opposition, 
promoting  an  equal  partnership  between  the  public  and  private  sec- 
tors, allowing  greater  democracy  and  constitutionalism,  and  relying 
on  technocrats  for  advice.  In  addition,  through  skillful  diplomacy 
he  gained  Egypt's  return  to  the  Arab  fold  in  1987  and  assumed  a 
leadership  role  in  the  Arab  world.  Simultaneously  he  maintained  good 
relations  with  the  West  and  improved  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union. 

Mubarak's  gradualism  seemed  to  many  observers  a  useful  leader- 
ship characteristic  for  contemporary  Egypt.  For  example,  he  strove 
to  prevent  the  small  but  growing  number  of  Muslim  extremists, 
sometimes  referred  to  as  fundamentalists,  from  exercising  dispro- 
portionate influence  over  the  moderate  body  of  Muslims,  who  in 


xxiv 


November  1990  constituted  approximately  90  percent  of  the  coun- 
try's population  of  about  56  million  persons.  (In  announcing  the 
population  figure,  the  Census  Bureau  stated  that  the  population 
has  increased  by  1  million  persons  in  nine  months  and  seven  days.) 
Although  concerned  about  the  intimidation  of  Christian  minori- 
ties, mainly  Copts,  at  the  hands  of  Muslim  extremists,  as  of  mid- 
1991,  the  government  has  been  unable  to  prevent  young  Coptic 
Christians  from  acting  on  their  own  to  counter  acts  of  violence 
against  their  religious  centers  and  property. 

Since  the  1952  Revolution,  the  government  has  appointed  the 
functionaries  of  mosques  and  Islamic  religious  schools.  The  growth 
of  Islamic  political  movements,  especially  the  Muslim  Brotherhood, 
and  of  Islamic  associations  in  universities  resulted  in  increased  pres- 
sure on  the  government  in  the  1980s  for  application  of  the  sharia 
in  legal  decisions.  Mubarak  acceded  to  the  gradual  application  of 
the  process. 

The  1952  Revolution  also  expanded  secular  education,  and  from 
1964  to  1974  the  government  was  obliged  by  law  to  hire  all  those 
with  higher  education  degrees.  The  practice  led  to  an  overstaffed 
and  ineffective  bureaucracy.  The  infitah  ended  this  hiring  require- 
ment, but  by  the  mid-1980s  unemployment  among  university  grad- 
uates was  estimated  to  be  as  high  as  30  percent. 

The  1952  Revolution  initiated  free  health  care  at  public  health 
facilities.  Although  these  services  continued  in  the  early  1990s,  facil- 
ities often  lacked  adequate  medical  personnel.  In  addition,  a  social 
security  program  was  begun  in  the  1960s. 

The  1952  Revolution  had  given  priority  to  economic  develop- 
ment and  had  made  the  state  the  prime  economic  agent  of  Arab 
socialism.  The  National  Charter  of  1962  clearly  spelled  out  the 
state's  role.  The  role  of  the  private  sector,  however,  was  consider- 
ably enlarged  by  the  infitah  after  the  October  1973  War,  and  private- 
sector  employees  on  average  received  three  times  the  salaries  of 
government  workers.  Mubarak  encouraged  private  investment  but 
funds  flowed  largely  into  the  service  sector  and  agriculture  rather 
than  into  industry,  despite  government  development  plans  (1982-86, 
1987-91)  designed  to  promote  the  latter.  The  shortage  of  skilled  per- 
sonnel, especially  in  the  technical  and  industrial  spheres,  also  had 
a  major  impact  on  the  economy. 

Agricultural  production  had  not  benefited  significantly  from  the 
development  process.  By  1990,  although  production  had  shifted 
away  from  concentration  on  long-staple  cotton  to  such  crops  as  rice, 
fruits,  and  vegetables,  self-sufficiency  had  fallen  below  the  1960 
level.  Only  approximately  3  percent  of  Egypt's  land  was  suitable 
for  agriculture.  Despite  postrevolutionary  land  reforms,  increased 


xxv 


mechanization,  and  land  reclamation  programs  following  the  con- 
struction of  the  Aswan  High  Dam — a  program  underway  in  1991 
involved  300,000  feddans  (see  Glossary)  to  be  worked  jointly  with 
Sudan — Egypt's  agricultural  output  did  not  keep  pace  with  popu- 
lation growth.  Although  pricing  reforms  and  the  elimination  of 
government  quotas  for  most  crops  helped  increase  output,  produc- 
tion remained  insufficient.  Part  of  the  problem  was  lack  of  proper 
drainage  and  consequent  reduction  of  optimum  yields.  In  gener- 
al, a  major  challenge  facing  Egypt  was  better  exploitation  of  its 
water  resources,  including  exploration  for  new  underground  water, 
particularly  in  the  Western  Desert,  and  improved  irrigation  tech- 
nology. Government  development  plans  also  sought  to  promote 
generation  of  electricity  and  other  energy  sources  such  as  oil,  gas, 
and  coal  as  well  as  to  improve  further  the  transportation  network 
of  roads,  railroads,  and  canals  and  to  update  telecommunications. 

Egypt's  major  sources  of  foreign  exchange  used  for  development 
projects  and  for  needed  imports  were  oil  revenues,  Suez  Canal  tolls, 
tourism  income,  and  workers'  remittances  from  the  approximate- 
ly 2.5  million  Egyptians  working  abroad.  Added  to  these  were  cap- 
ital grants  from  other  Arab  states  after  the  October  1973  War  and, 
as  well,  economic  and  military  grants  from  the  United  States  and 
loans  from  the  Paris  Club  (the  informal  name  for  a  consortium 
of  eighteen  Western  creditor  nations)  after  the  conclusion  of  the 
1979  peace  treaty  with  Israel. 

Egypt  faced  a  serious  economic  situation  in  the  late  1980s  and 
early  1990s:  stagnation  and  ultimately  negative  economic  growth 
in  addition  to  heavy  indebtedness.  After  two  years  of  negotiations 
with  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  the 
Egyptian  government  finally  concluded  a  preliminary  agreement 
in  October  1990  that  enabled  it  to  reschedule  its  US$18  billion  debt 
to  Paris  Club  members.  The  agreement  required  Egypt  to  increase 
prices  of  certain  basic  commodities  such  as  gas,  fuel  oil,  gasoline, 
electricity,  flour,  and  rice  by  eliminating  or  reducing  subsidies. 
Mandated,  as  well,  were  the  devaluation  and  unification  of  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  exchange  rate  and  the  exchange  rate  of  commercial  banks, 
raising  of  the  interest  rate,  and  reforming  of  the  foreign  invest- 
ment law.  Egypt  also  sought  to  promote  privatization  of  the  in- 
dustrial public  sector — one  of  the  recommendations  of  the  World 
Bank  (see  Glossary) — and  announced  in  October  1990  that  it  would 
establish  nine  new  industrial  "free  zones"  to  encourage  investment 
and  create  more  jobs.  Some  officials  recognized  that,  additional- 
ly, the  government  needed  to  restructure  management  style  in  the 
public  sector  and  banking  to  encourage  greater  efficiency  and 
productivity.  Another  economic  problem  facing  Egypt  was  rising 


xxvi 


inflation,  which  between  1987  and  1989  had  increased  between  20 
and  25  percent  annually.  In  early  1991,  inflation  was  estimated 
to  have  dropped  to  1 1  percent,  but  it  nevertheless  had  a  severe  im- 
pact especially  on  lower  income  groups. 

Egypt  also  endeavored  to  improve  its  trade  and  financial  situa- 
tion by  concluding  barter  agreements  that  eliminated  the  need  to 
expend  foreign  currency.  For  example,  in  August  1990  it  reached 
a  five-year  agreement  with  the  Soviet  Union  that  was  worth  £E5 
billion,  with  other  supplemental  agreements  to  follow. 

Egypt's  economic  situation  became  particularly  critical  in  1990 
because  of  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis.  In  October,  before  the  crisis  de- 
veloped into  a  war,  the  World  Bank  had  calculated  that  Egypt  would 
lose  US$2.4  billion  in  remittances  from  workers  in  Iraq  and  Kuwait, 
US$500  million  from  the  loss  of  exports  to  Iraq  and  Kuwait, 
US$500  million  from  tourism,  and  US$200  million  from  Suez  Canal 
tolls.  In  addition,  Egyptian  minister  of  international  cooperation 
Maurice  Makramallah  estimated  that  Egypt  would  require  a  fur- 
ther US$900  million  to  meet  the  needs  of  Egyptians  repatriated 
from  Iraq  and  Kuwait.  In  early  April  1991,  after  the  war,  Egyp- 
tian officials  announced  that  700,000  Egyptians  who  had  worked 
in  Iraq  and  Kuwait  had  returned  home  jobless.  Estimates  of  un- 
employment in  early  1991  varied,  with  some  figures  as  high  as  20 
percent,  despite  the  approximate  684,000  visas  issued  to  Egyp- 
tians for  work  in  Saudi  Arabia  after  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis  began. 

The  estimated  costs  did  not  take  into  account  actual  war  costs 
of  sending  about  35,000  Egyptian  armed  forces  personnel  to  Saudi 
Arabia  and  provisioning  them.  Saudi  Arabia,  which  in  December 
promised  US$1 .5  billion,  and  Kuwait,  together  with  several  Euro- 
pean Economic  Community  (EEC)  member  nations,  had  agreed 
to  contribute  to  these  costs  and  to  the  losses  incurred  by  Egypt's 
economy,  but  funds  were  slow  in  arriving.  President  George 
Bush  of  the  United  States  proposed  in  September  that  the  United 
States  forgive  Egypt  its  approximately  US$7  billion  military  debt 
because  of  Egypt's  help  in  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis;  Congress  sub- 
sequently endorsed  this  proposal.  This  action  relieved  Egypt  of  an- 
nual repayments  amounting  to  more  than  US$700  million.  Other 
countries  such  as  Canada,  several  EEC  member  states,  the  Persian 
Gulf  countries  and  Saudi  Arabia  also  forgave  Egypt's  debt  obliga- 
tions. By  early  November  1990  the  total  debt  cancellation  stood 
at  about  US$14  billion. 

In  subsequent  action,  Egypt  sent  a  delegation  in  mid-April  1991 
to  the  IMF  requesting  an  eighteen-month  standby  agreement  and 
a  loan.  When  United  States  secretary  of  state  James  A.  Baker  III 
visited  Cairo  in  March,  he  had  promised  that  the  United  States, 


xxvn 


grateful  for  Egypt's  support  in  the  war  with  Iraq,  would  put  in 
a  good  word  for  Egypt  with  the  IMF.  In  mid-May  the  IMF 
approved  the  standby  agreement  and  granted  Egypt  a  US$372  mil- 
lion loan,  but  imposed  certain  additional  conditions  on  the  Egyp- 
tian economy.  The  IMF  agreement  paved  the  way  for  Egypt  to 
obtain  favorable  terms  from  the  Paris  Club  for  its  debt  to  member 
countries.  On  May  25,  it  was  announced  that  Egyptian  govern- 
ment debts  would  be  reduced  50  percent  and  advantageous  terms 
granted  on  the  remainder.  In  mid-June  the  World  Bank  agreed 
to  an  additional  US$520  million  loan  to  Egypt. 

Meanwhile,  with  regard  to  economic  development  Egypt  signed 
an  agreement  at  the  end  of  May  1991  with  the  African  Develop- 
ment Bank  for  a  US$350  million  loan  to  finance  part  of  the  Kuray- 
mar  power  station.  This  sum  was  supplemented  by  contributions 
of  US$100  million  from  the  Arab  Fund  for  Social  and  Economic 
Development,  US$100  million  from  the  World  Bank,  and  US$10 
million  from  the  Islamic  Bank  for  Development.  On  July  10  the 
Egypt  Consultative  Group,  consisting  of  thirty  countries  and  insti- 
tutions, pledged  US$8  billion  in  aid  to  Egypt  over  the  next  two 
years,  more  than  twice  the  minimum  Egypt  had  suggested.  The 
World  Bank,  which  organized  the  group,  stated  that  the  donors 
had  determined  on  "massive  support"  for  Egypt's  reform  program, 
which  it  described  as  "daring"  and  "exhaustive."  It  estimated  that 
Egypt  had  lost  approximately  US$20  billion  as  a  result  of  the  war 
in  the  Persian  Gulf. 

The  endorsement  of  Egypt's  policies  represented  by  the  action 
of  this  World  Bank- affiliated  group  was  an  encouraging  sign.  In 
summary,  however,  Egypt's  prospective  economic  situation  depend- 
ed upon  several  factors:  the  successful  implementation  of  the  IMF 
agreement,  its  capacity  to  promote  itself  as  an  investment  and  finan- 
cial center,  its  role  in  the  region  as  well  as  its  position  as  a  partner 
of  the  West,  and  perhaps  most  critically,  its  ability  to  follow  through 
on  necessary  economic  reforms. 

The  role  of  government  was  prominent  not  only  in  Egypt's  eco- 
nomic life  but  also  in  other  spheres,  such  as  political  parties, 
parliamentary  organization  and  elections,  the  judiciary,  and  the 
military.  The  Constitution  of  1971  validated  a  mixed  presidential- 
parliamentary-cabinet  system  with  power  concentrated  in  the  hands 
of  the  president,  who  had  extensive  opportunities  to  bestow  patron- 
age, including  the  appointment  of  the  prime  minister,  and  who 
could  legislate  by  decree  in  emergencies.  Whereas  the  People's 
Assembly,  the  elected  lower  house,  theoretically  could  exercise  a 
check  on  the  president,  in  reality  this  did  not  occur,  and  the  as- 
sembly had  no  role  in  foreign  affairs  or  defense  matters.  The 


xxviii 


upper  house,  the  Consultative  Council,  was  an  advisory  body  creat- 
ed in  1980  when  the  Central  Committee  of  the  Arab  Socialist  Un- 
ion, then  the  only  legitimate  political  party,  became  the  nucleus 
of  the  council. 

Under  Mubarak  the  People's  Assembly  acquired  greater  authori- 
ty over  minor  matters  of  state  and  more  freedom  of  debate;  as- 
sembly committees  also  exercised  an  oversight  role  with  regard  to 
cabinet  ministers.  The  dominant  political  party  remained  the  Na- 
tional Democratic  Party  (NDP),  which  had  succeeded  the  ASU, 
but  it  was  largely  an  appendage  of  the  government.  The  new  Elec- 
toral Law  in  1984  limited  opposition  seats  in  the  assembly  to  par- 
ties that  obtained  at  least  8  percent  of  the  vote,  thereby  eliminating 
representation  on  the  part  of  some  of  the  small  fringe  parties.  In 
May  1990,  however,  Egypt  acquired  several  new  parties:  the  Green 
Party,  the  Democratic  Unionist  Party,  and  the  Young  Egypt  (Misr 
al  Fatah)  Party  became  eligible  to  run  for  election.  The  Supreme 
Administrative  Court  rejected,  however,  the  application  for  party 
status  of  the  Nasserite  Party  on  the  ground  that  its  program  was 
totalitarian.  A  similar  request  for  party  recognition  by  the  Mus- 
lim Brotherhood  in  January  1990  had  been  rejected  because  the 
body  had  been  formed  on  a  religious  basis. 

In  May  1990,  the  Supreme  Constitutional  Court  ruled  that  the 
People's  Assembly  elected  in  May  1987  was  invalid.  It  so  ruled 
because  a  1986  amendment  to  the  1972  Electoral  Law  was  judged 
unconstitutional  by  reason  of  its  discrimination  against  indepen- 
dent candidates  through  use  of  the  closed  list  system  of  propor- 
tional representation,  requiring  selection  of  a  single  slate.  As  a 
result,  assembly  legislation  passed  up  to  June  2  would  stand,  but 
new  elections  had  to  be  held  under  the  second-ballot  system,  in 
which,  if  no  individual  received  an  absolute  majority,  a  run-off 
was  held  between  the  top  two  candidates.  Mubarak  adjourned  the 
existing  assembly  and  called  a  referendum  for  October  11  on 
whether  the  assembly  should  be  dissolved.  The  referendum  resulted 
in  new  assembly  elections  called  for  November  29,  with  nine  legal 
parties  authorized  to  participate. 

In  fact,  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  and  three  of  the  major  opposi- 
tion parties — the  right-of-center  New  Wafd  Party,  the  left-of-center 
Socialist  Labor  Party,  and  the  centrist  Liberal  Party — declined  to 
take  part  in  the  elections.  They  refused  because  of  amendments 
to  the  1972  Electoral  Law  forbidding  unified  lists  (the  Muslim 
Brotherhood  had  combined  with  the  Socialist  Labor  Party  for  elec- 
tion purposes)  and  preventing  NDP  members  from  changing  al- 
legiance. Other  reasons  for  the  abstention  of  these  parties  was  the 
government's  refusal  to  lift  the  state  of  emergency  or  to  allow 


xxix 


judicial  bodies  to  supervise  the  election.  As  a  result,  in  a  very  low 
voter  turnout  estimated  at  between  8  and  25  percent  of  those  eligi- 
ble, the  NDP  claimed  to  control  79.6  percent  of  the  new  assem- 
bly, with  independents  holding  19  percent  and  the  left  1.4  percent. 
The  NDP  percentage  included,  however,  ninety-five  independents 
affiliated  with  the  NDP,  indicating  that  party  control  was  not  as 
strong  as  it  might  seem.  An  internationally  known  Egyptian  polit- 
ical analyst  has  said  that  the  1990  elections  showed  that  local  is- 
sues and  loyalties  counted  for  more  in  party  politics  than  political 
platforms  and  that  unless  the  NDP  is  separated  from  the  govern- 
ment, Mubarak's  desire  for  reorganization  of  NDP  structure  in 
the  interests  of  increased  democratization  cannot  occur.  The  No- 
vember election  was  further  clouded  by  the  October  12  assassina- 
tion by  Muslim  extremists  of  assembly  speaker  Rafat  al  Mahjub, 
constitutionally  next  in  line  to  the  president. 

The  Persian  Gulf  crisis  and  the  ensuing  war  resulted  in  quan- 
daries for  various  Egyptian  parties  other  than  the  NDP.  For  ex- 
ample, divisions  occurred  among  Islamist  groups  with  some 
supporting  Saudi  Arabia  and  Kuwait  and  others  backing  Iraq.  The 
Muslim  Brotherhood  decided  to  end  its  alliance  with  the  Socialist 
Labor  Party  and  seek  to  gain  party  status  of  its  own.  The  leftist 
parties  also  experienced  confusion,  with  some  members  of  Tagam- 
mu  supporting  each  side  in  the  Persian  Gulf  war. 

Evidence  of  the  greater  role  of  constitutionalism  was  the  grow- 
ing independence  of  the  judiciary  under  Mubarak.  Judges  increas- 
ingly defended  the  rights  of  citizens  against  the  state.  The  Ministry 
of  Interior,  however,  often  ignored  court  decrees. 

On  the  foreign  affairs  front  as  well,  Mubarak  followed  a  policy 
of  gradualism.  He  continued  the  friendly  relations  with  the  West 
established  under  Sadat  but  sought  a  more  independent  course  for 
Egypt.  For  instance,  he  improved  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union 
and  rejected  United  States  president  Ronald  Reagan's  proposal 
to  take  joint  military  action  against  Libya. 

A  number  of  events  reflected  Mubarak's  growing  confidence  in 
asserting  his  personal  role  and  that  of  Egypt  on  the  Middle  East 
scene.  In  September  1989,  he  proposed  ten  points  to  enable  direct 
Palestinian-Israeli  talks  on  Israeli  prime  minister  Yitzhaq  Shamir's 
election  plan.  The  points  included  international  observers  for  the 
election,  withdrawal  of  the  Israel  Defense  Forces  from  the  ballot- 
ing area,  an  end  to  Israeli  settlement  activities  in  the  West  Bank 
(see  Glossary),  and  the  participation  of  East  Jerusalem  residents 
in  the  election.  The  Israeli  Labor  Party  endorsed  the  proposals, 
but  the  Likud  government  sharply  opposed  them. 


xxx 


Egypt's  more  prominent  role  in  the  international  sphere  was  also 
reflected  in  Mubarak's  April  1990  visits  to  various  Asian  and  Eu- 
ropean capitals:  Beijing,  Pyongyang,  Moscow,  and  London.  He 
focused  primarily  on  economic  matters,  seeking  debt  relief  and 
expanded  export  markets  for  Egypt.  His  purpose  also  included  a 
request  for  political  action  condemning  Israel's  settlement  of  Soviet 
Jewish  immigrants  in  the  occupied  territories  and  banning  weapons 
proliferation  in  the  Middle  East. 

The  major  event  affecting  Egypt's  relations  with  the  Arab  world 
and  the  broader  international  sphere  was  clearly  its  decision  to  side 
with  Saudi  Arabia  and  the  United  States  in  opposing  Iraq's  inva- 
sion of  Kuwait  on  August  2,  1990.  Earlier  Mubarak  had  sought 
unsuccessfully  to  mediate  between  Iraq  and  Kuwait.  Egyptians  were 
unsympathetic  with  Iraq  despite  the  presence  there  of  nearly  1  mil- 
lion Egyptian  workers  because  of  numerous  instances  of  mistreat- 
ment of  Egyptians  by  Iraq  and  disenchantment  with  Saddam 
Husayn's  Baath  socialism  and  his  authoritarian  actions.  Mubarak's 
condemnation  of  Iraq's  occupation  of  Kuwait,  therefore,  was  ini- 
tially popular  in  Egypt;  as  the  crisis  developed  into  war,  however, 
popular  support  appeared  to  wane  somewhat  although  observers 
believed  Egyptians  supported  Mubarak's  position  approximately 
three  to  one. 

Even  before  Iraq  invaded  Kuwait,  its  threats  to  that  country 
began  producing  a  realignment  in  the  Arab  world.  In  mid-July 
Syrian  president  Hafiz  al  Assad  paid  a  historic  visit  to  Cairo  after 
thirteen  years  of  separation  between  the  two  nations;  both  coun- 
tries shared  a  concern  about  Iraq's  growing  bellicosity.  The  visit 
led  to  the  creation  of  a  joint  ministerial  committee  to  further  cooper- 
ation in  the  economic,  industrial,  petroleum,  energy,  agricultur- 
al, education,  and  information  fields.  (At  the  beginning  of  April 
1991,  after  the  war,  Mubarak  and  Assad  met  again  in  Cairo  and 
announced  their  opposition  to  breaking  up  Iraq.)  In  mid-October 
Libyan  president  Muammar  al  Qadhafi  visited  Cairo,  as  an  after- 
math of  which  a  number  of  cooperation  agreements  were  also  signed. 

A  further  indication  of  the  new  alignment  was  the  majority  vote 
in  early  September  1990  of  League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League) 
members  to  return  Arab  League  headquarters  to  Cairo.  Egypt  had 
been  expelled  from  the  Arab  League  in  1979  after  signing  the  peace 
treaty  with  Israel.  Readmitted  to  the  Arab  League  proper  in  1989, 
Egypt  had  subsequently  joined  several  League-affiliated  bodies  such 
as  the  Arab  Atomic  Energy  Organization  and  the  Organization 
of  Arab  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries.  The  vote  indicated  the 
split  in  the  organization  because  only  twelve  of  the  twenty-one 


xxxi 


members,  those  supporting  the  condemnation  of  Iraq's  invasion 
of  Kuwait,  sent  their  foreign  ministers  to  the  Cairo  meeting; 
representatives  of  Iraq,  Jordan,  Libya,  Sudan,  Yemen,  and  the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization,  among  others,  were  conspicu- 
ously absent. 

The  rift  was  underscored  by  Egypt's  announcement  of  its  deci- 
sion in  mid-September  not  to  participate  further  in  the  Arab  Cooper- 
ation Council,  a  primarily  economic  body  formed  in  1989  by  Egypt, 
Jordan,  Iraq,  and  the  Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North  Yemen,  prior 
to  the  May  1990  union  of  North  and  South  Yemen).  In  December 
Mubarak  proposed  the  creation  of  a  new  Arab  alliance  consisting 
of  Egypt,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  Syria,  presumably  as  a  replacement 
for  the  Arab  Cooperation  Council,  and  warned  pro-Iraqi  Sudan 
that  Egypt  would  act  if  Iraqi  weapons  were  transferred  there. 

Whereas  it  supported  the  United  States,  Egypt's  stance  in  the 
Persian  Gulf  crisis  was  a  moderate  one.  It  advocated  the  ouster 
of  Iraq  from  Kuwait,  but  in  early  November  1990,  Mubarak  sent 
word  to  President  Bush  that  sanctions  should  be  given  two  to  three 
more  months  to  work  before  any  military  attack  on  Iraq.  In  a  speech 
to  the  joint  session  of  the  People's  Assembly  and  the  Consultative 
Council  on  January  24,  1991,  Mubarak  stated  that  he  had  made 
twenty- six  unavailing  appeals  to  Saddam  Husayn  and  had  even- 
tually sent  a  force  of  35,000  Egyptians  to  Saudi  Arabia  in  confor- 
mity with  the  provisions  of  the  Arab  Mutual  Defense  Pact  signed 
in  1950.  Also  in  January,  Mubarak  sent  Minister  of  Foreign  Af- 
fairs Ismat  Abdul  Majid  to  Washington  with  a  message  indicat- 
ing, among  other  points,  that  if  Iraq  withdrew  from  Kuwait,  Egypt 
considered  Saddam  Husayn' s  remaining  in  power  acceptable. 

As  the  war  was  ending,  Mubarak  again  addressed  a  joint  legis- 
lative session  on  March  3,  1991.  He  stated  that  Egypt  was  pre- 
pared to  help  rebuild  Iraq  as  well  as  Kuwait  with  Egyptian  labor 
and  set  forth  a  nine-point  program,  which  he  described  as  a  "pan- 
Arab  appeal. "  The  points  included  that  there  should  be  no  venge- 
ance, that  border  disputes  must  be  settled,  that  the  Middle  East 
must  be  freed  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  that  the  Arab-Israeli 
dispute  must  be  settled,  and  that  the  basis  for  participation  of  all 
Arab  citizens  in  democracy  should  be  expanded.  As  time  passed, 
however,  Egypt  became  disillusioned  by  the  responses  of  Kuwait, 
particularly,  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  Saudi  Arabia  to  Egypt's  offers 
of  manpower  assistance.  Egypt  had  agreed  to  serve  with  Syria  in 
a  Persian  Gulf  peacekeeping  force  proposed  by  the  six-nation  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council,  in  accordance  with  the  Damascus  Declara- 
tion of  March  6.  Kuwait  had  made  public  promises  to  grant  con- 
tracts to  Egyptian  firms  and  to  hire  Egyptian  workers  for  its 


xxxn 


reconstruction  efforts.  It  granted  minimal  awards  to  Egypt, 
however,  and  implied  that  Egyptians  were  fit  only  for  menial  labor. 
In  addition,  Kuwait  indicated  its  preference  for  United  States  rather 
than  Egyptian  troops  on  its  territory. 

Informed  observers  believed  that  Mubarak's  announcement  on 
April  8  that  Egyptian  forces  would  be  withdrawn  from  the  Persian 
Gulf  was  the  cumulative  result  of  these  factors.  The  United  States 
was  shocked  by  Mubarak's  decision  and  expressed  its  displeasure 
to  Kuwait,  indicating  that  only  a  minimal  number  of  United  States 
forces  would  remain  in  the  area.  As  a  result  of  United  States  pres- 
sure, Kuwait  modified  its  position,  and  Egypt  agreed  in  principle 
with  United  States  secretary  of  defense  Richard  B.  Cheney  to  send 
peacekeeping  and  border  patrol  troops  to  Kuwait.  In  mid-June  the 
number  of  such  troops  remained  to  be  worked  out,  but  Mubarak's 
visit  to  Kuwait  on  July  18  indicated  that  relations  between  the  two 
countries  had  improved.  Other  evidence  of  improved  Egyptian  re- 
lations with  all  Arab  states  was  the  unanimous  election  of  Ismat 
Abdul  Majid  as  secretary  general  of  the  Arab  League  in  May. 

In  the  broader  international  sphere,  Secretary  of  State  Baker  paid 
several  post-Persian  Gulf  war  visits  to  Cairo  in  the  first  half  of  1991 , 
and  Egypt  was  among  the  first  Arab  states  to  indicate  its  accep- 
tance of  the  Baker  plan  for  a  twofold  approach  to  Middle  East  talks. 
The  plan  proposed  that  the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union 
jointly  sponsor  an  opening  session  to  be  followed  by  direct  negoti- 
ations between  Israel  and  its  Arab  neighbors.  On  July  19,  in  a  fur- 
ther step  toward  easing  Middle  East  tensions,  Mubarak  proposed 
that  Israel  suspend  the  expansion  of  settlements  in  the  occupied 
territories,  in  return  for  which  the  Arab  states  would  end  their  eco- 
nomic boycott  of  Israel.  Saudi  Arabia  and  Jordan  soon  afterward 
indicated  agreement  with  this  proposal. 

Mubarak's  domestic  policy  has  been  summarized  as  one  of  limit- 
ed liberalization,  limited  Islamization,  and  limited  repression.  These 
three  factors  all  impinged  on  national  security,  a  sphere  in  which 
Mubarak  emphasized  the  maintenance  of  domestic  stability,  prob- 
ably a  more  important  concern  after  the  1979  peace  treaty  with 
Israel  than  external  threats.  Egypt  had  a  professional  officer  corps 
but  a  shortage  of  well  trained  enlisted  personnel,  especially  non- 
commissioned officers,  because  of  the  attraction  of  higher  paying 
civilian  employment.  Conscripts,  based  on  the  1955  National  Mili- 
tary Service  Law,  served  for  three  years  in  one  of  the  four  ser- 
vices: army,  navy,  air  force,  or  Air  Defense  Force,  or  they  might 
be  assigned  to  the  police,  prison  guard  service,  or  the  military  eco- 
nomic service.  Until  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis  of  late  1990-91,  the 


xxxiii 


last  war  in  which  the  armed  services  had  seen  action  was  the  Oc- 
tober 1973  War. 

Egypt's  defense  spending  was  proportionately  less  than  that  of 
most  Middle  Eastern  countries,  but  it  represented  11  percent  of 
gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  in  1987,  or  32  per- 
cent of  total  government  spending.  In  addition,  Egypt  benefited 
to  a  substantial  degree  from  foreign  military  assistance.  From  1955 
to  1975,  this  aid  came  primarily  from  the  Soviet  Union,  with  the 
result  that  Egypt  had  much  Soviet  military  equipment  in  its  in- 
ventory. From  the  signing  of  the  peace  treaty  with  Israel  in  1979 
onward,  the  United  States  became  Egypt's  main  military  suppli- 
er, and  the  orientation  of  the  armed  forces  became  Western.  Egypt's 
defense  industry  was  the  largest  in  the  Arab  world,  producing  arms, 
ammunition,  artillery,  and  other  military  goods  and  assembling 
aircraft  and  armored  vehicles  for  domestic  use  or  export  to  Third 
World  countries. 

With  reference  to  internal  security,  the  military  were  called  out 
to  join  the  police  and  the  paramilitary  police,  the  Central  Security 
Forces  (CSF),  to  suppress  dissent  when  occasions  warranted.  This 
occurred  during  the  1977  food  riots  and  the  1986  riots  by  the  CSF. 
The  police  and  intelligence  services  kept  a  watchful  eye  on  right- 
wing  Islamic  groups,  of  which  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  was  the 
chief,  but  Al  Jihad  was  one  of  the  most  extreme — the  organiza- 
tion's leader  in  Bani  Suwayf  in  Upper  Egypt  was  killed  in  a  riot 
in  late  June  1991 .  Left-wing  factions  were  kept  under  surveillance 
as  well,  although  the  Communist  Party  of  Egypt  had  been  offi- 
cially banned  since  the  early  1950s.  Former  Minister  of  Interior 
General  Zaki  Badr  was  responsible  for  the  arrest  of  as  many  as 
20,000  persons  charged  with  being  dissidents  during  his  four-year 
tenure;  this  figure  included  arrests  in  April  1989  of  1,500  persons 
accused  of  acts  of  Muslim  extremism  against  Christian  churches 
and  businesses.  Moreover,  human  rights  organizations  brought  ac- 
cusations of  torture  on  a  regular  basis  against  Egypt's  internal  secu- 
rity forces.  Mubarak  relieved  Badr  of  his  post  in  early  January  1990; 
his  successor,  General  Muhammad  Abd  al  Halim  Musa,  stated 
that  he  considered  the  opposition  to  be  ''part  of  the  mechanism" 
of  government.  This  statement  encouraged  popular  hope  for  a  more 
liberal  internal  security  policy.  Restrictions  remained,  however, 
and  in  September  1990,  a  group  of  Muslim  activists  and  leftists 
was  barred  by  the  government  from  traveling  to  Iraq  and  Saudi 
Arabia  on  a  peace  mission. 

Part  of  Egypt's  internal  security  concern  related  to  its  neighbor 
to  the  south,  Sudan,  which  staged  a  massive  pro-Iraqi  demonstra- 
tion in  Khartoum  on  January  19,  just  after  the  Persian  Gulf  war 


xxxiv 


began.  Egyptian  security  forces  had  been  keeping  a  watchful  eye 
on  a  number  of  Sudanese  activists,  and  500  of  them  were  rounded 
up  and  deported  on  January  23  as  representing  a  threat  to  Egyp- 
tian security.  Although  public  demonstrations  have  been  outlawed 
in  Egypt,  about  2,000  Cairo  University  students  staged  an  antiwar 
demonstration  on  February  24,  which  Cairo  police  broke  up  with 
tear  gas.  No  serious  injuries  were  reported. 

The  government's  continuing  concern  over  national  security  was 
but  one  aspect  of  the  problems  posed  by  the  Persian  Gulf  war.  The 
war  had  far-reaching  political,  economic,  and  diplomatic  implica- 
tions for  Egypt's  future.  In  mid-July  1991,  it  remained  to  be  seen 
whether  Egypt  would  continue  to  evolve  democratic  political  in- 
stitutions, to  reform  governmental  administrative  structures,  and 
to  promote  economic  reforms  designed  to  further  agricultural  and 
industrial  development.  Also  in  question  was  whether  Egypt  could 
resume  the  position  of  Arab  leadership  it  had  gained  under  Nasser, 
now  that  Syria's  Hafiz  al  Assad  was  reasserting  his  regional  leader- 
ship role,  and  whether  the  realignment  resulting  from  the  war  would 
work  in  Egypt's  favor. 


July  23,  1991  Helen  Chapin  Metz 


XXXV 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Sphinx  and  pyramids  at  Giza  (Al  Jizah) 


THE  ROOTS  OF  EGYPTIAN  civilization  go  back  more  than 
6,000  years  to  the  beginning  of  settled  life  along  the  banks  of  the 
Nile  River.  The  country  has  an  unusual  geographical  and  cultural 
unity  that  has  given  the  Egyptian  people  a  strong  sense  of  identity 
and  a  pride  in  their  heritage  as  descendants  of  humankind's  earli- 
est civilized  community. 

Within  the  long  sweep  of  Egyptian  history,  certain  events  or 
epochs  have  been  crucial  to  the  development  of  Egyptian  society 
and  culture.  One  of  these  was  the  unification  of  Upper  Egypt  and 
Lower  Egypt  sometime  in  the  third  millennium  B.C.  The  ancient 
Egyptians  regarded  this  event  as  the  most  important  in  their  his- 
tory, comparable  to  the  "First  Time,"  or  the  creation  of  the 
universe.  With  the  unification  of  the  "Two  Lands"  by  the  legend- 
ary, if  not  mythical,  King  Menes,  the  glorious  Pharaonic  Age  began. 
Power  was  centralized  in  the  hands  of  a  god-king,  and,  thus,  Egypt 
became  the  first  organized  society. 

The  ancient  Egyptians  were  the  first  people  of  antiquity  to  be- 
lieve in  life  after  death.  They  were  the  first  to  build  in  stone  and 
to  fashion  the  arch  in  stone  and  brick.  Even  before  the  unification 
of  the  Two  Lands,  the  Egyptians  had  developed  a  plow  and  a  sys- 
tem of  writing.  They  were  accomplished  sailors  and  shipbuilders. 
They  learned  to  chart  the  heavens  in  order  to  predict  the  Nile  flood. 
Their  physicians  prescribed  healing  remedies  and  performed  sur- 
gical operations.  They  sculpted  in  stone  and  decorated  the  walls 
of  their  tombs  with  naturalistic  murals  in  vibrant  colors.  The  legacy 
of  ancient  Egypt  is  written  in  stone  across  the  face  of  the  country 
from  the  pyramids  of  Upper  Egypt  to  the  rock  tombs  in  the  Valley 
of  the  Kings  to  the  Old  Kingdom  temples  of  Luxor  and  Karnak 
to  the  Ptolemaic  temples  of  Edfu  and  Dendera  and  to  the  Roman 
temple  to  Isis  on  Philae  Island. 

The  Arab  conquest  of  641  by  the  military  commander  Amr  ibn 
al  As  was  perhaps  the  next  most  important  event  in  Egyptian  his- 
tory because  it  resulted  in  the  Islamization  and  Arabization  of  the 
country,  which  endure  to  this  day.  Even  those  who  clung  to  the 
Coptic  religion,  a  substantial  minority  of  the  population  in  1990, 
were  Arabized;  that  is,  they  adopted  the  Arabic  language  and  were 
assimilated  into  Arab  culture. 

Although  Egypt  was  formally  under  Arab  rule,  beginning  in  the 
ninth  century  hereditary  autonomous  dynasties  arose  that  allowed 
local  rulers  to  maintain  a  great  deal  of  control  over  the  country's 


3 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

destiny.  During  this  period,  Cairo  was  established  as  the  capital 
of  the  country  and  became  a  center  of  religion,  learning,  art,  and 
architecture.  In  1260  the  Egyptian  ruler,  Qutuz,  and  his  forces 
stopped  the  Mongol  advance  across  the  Arab  world  at  the  battle 
of  Ayn  Jalut  in  Palestine.  Because  of  this  victory,  Islamic  civiliza- 
tion could  continue  to  flourish  when  Baghdad,  the  capital  of  the 
Abbasid  caliphate,  fell  to  the  Mongols.  Qutuz's  successor,  Bay- 
bars  I,  inaugurated  the  reign  of  the  Mamluks,  a  dynasty  of  slave- 
soldiers  of  Turkish  and  Circassian  origin  that  lasted  for  almost  three 
centuries. 

In  1517  Egypt  was  conquered  by  Sultan  Selim  I  and  absorbed 
into  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Since  the  Turks  were  Muslims,  however, 
and  the  sultans  regarded  themselves  as  the  preservers  of  Sunni  (see 
Glossary)  Islam,  this  period  saw  institutional  continuity,  particu- 
larly in  religion,  education,  and  the  religious  law  courts.  In  addi- 
tion, after  only  a  century  of  Ottoman  rule,  the  Mamluk  system 
reasserted  itself,  and  Ottoman  governors  became  at  times  virtual 
prisoners  in  the  citadel,  the  ancient  seat  of  Egypt's  rulers. 

The  modern  history  of  Egypt  is  marked  by  Egyptian  attempts 
to  achieve  political  independence,  first  from  the  Ottoman  Empire 
and  then  from  the  British.  In  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  centu- 
ry, Muhammad  Ali,  an  Albanian  and  the  Ottoman  viceroy  in 
Egypt,  attempted  to  create  an  Egyptian  empire  that  extended  to 
Syria  and  to  remove  Egypt  from  Ottoman  control.  Ultimately,  he 
was  unsuccessful,  and  true  independence  from  foreign  powers  would 
not  be  achieved  until  midway  through  the  next  century. 

Foreign,  including  British,  investment  in  Egypt  and  Britain's 
need  to  maintain  control  over  the  Suez  Canal  resulted  in  the  Brit- 
ish occupation  of  Egypt  in  1882.  Although  Egypt  was  granted  nomi- 
nal independence  in  1922,  Britain  remained  the  real  power  in  the 
country.  Genuine  political  independence  was  finally  achieved  be- 
tween the  1952  Revolution  and  the  1956  War.  In  1952  the  Free 
Officers,  led  by  Lieutenant  Colonel  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser,  took  con- 
trol of  the  government  and  removed  King  Faruk  from  power.  In 
1956  Nasser,  as  Egyptian  president,  announced  the  nationaliza- 
tion of  the  Suez  Canal,  an  action  that  resulted  in  the  tripartite  in- 
vasion by  Britain,  France,  and  Israel.  Ultimately,  however,  Egypt 
prevailed,  and  the  last  British  troops  were  withdrawn  from  the  coun- 
try by  the  end  of  the  year. 

No  history  of  Egypt  would  be  complete  without  mentioning  the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict,  which  has  cost  Egypt  so  much  in  lives,  terri- 
tory, and  property.  Armed  conflict  between  Egypt  and  Israel  end- 
ed in  1979  when  the  two  countries  signed  the  Camp  David  Accords. 
The  accords,  however,  constituted  a  separate  peace  between  Egypt 


4 


Historical  Setting 


and  Israel  and  did  not  lead  to  a  comprehensive  settiement  that  would 
have  satisfied  Palestinian  demands  for  a  homeland  or  brought  about 
peace  between  Israel  and  its  Arab  neighbors.  Thus,  Egypt  remained 
embroiled  in  the  conflict  on  the  diplomatic  level  and  continued  to 
press  for  an  international  conference  to  achieve  a  comprehensive 
agreement. 

Ancient  Egypt 

The  Predynastic  Period  and  the  First  and  Second  Dynasties, 
6000-2686  B.C. 

During  this  period,  when  people  first  began  to  settle  along  the 
banks  of  the  Nile  (Nahr  an  Nil)  and  to  evolve  from  hunters  and 
gatherers  to  settled,  subsistence  agriculturalists,  Egypt  developed 
the  written  language,  religion,  and  institutions  that  made  it  the 
world's  first  organized  society.  Through  pharaonic  (see  Glossary) 
Egypt,  Africa  claims  to  be  the  cradle  of  one  of  the  earliest  and  most 
spectacular  civilizations  of  antiquity  (see  fig.  2). 

One  of  the  unique  features  of  ancient  Egyptian  civilization  was 
the  bond  between  the  Nile  and  the  Egyptian  people  and  their  in- 
stitutions. The  Nile  caused  the  great  productivity  of  the  soil,  for 
it  annually  brought  a  copious  deposit  of  rich  silt  from  the  monsoon- 
swept  tableland  of  Ethiopia.  Each  July,  the  level  of  the  Nile  began 
to  rise,  and  by  the  end  of  August,  the  flood  reached  its  full  height. 
At  the  end  of  October,  the  flood  began  to  recede,  leaving  behind 
a  fairly  uniform  deposit  of  silt  as  well  as  lagoons  and  streams  that 
became  natural  reservoirs  for  fish.  By  April,  the  Nile  was  at  its 
lowest  level.  Vegetation  started  to  diminish,  seasonal  pools  dried 
out,  and  game  began  to  move  south.  Then  in  July,  the  Nile  would 
rise  again,  and  the  cycle  was  repeated. 

Because  of  the  fall  and  rise  of  the  river,  one  can  understand  why 
the  Egyptians  were  the  first  people  to  believe  in  life  after  death. 
The  rise  and  fall  of  the  flood  waters  meant  that  the  "death"  of 
the  land  would  be  followed  each  year  by  the  "rebirth"  of  the  crops. 
Thus,  rebirth  was  seen  as  a  natural  sequence  to  death.  Like  the 
sun,  which  "died"  when  it  sank  on  the  western  horizon  and  was 
"reborn"  in  the  eastern  sky  on  the  following  morning,  humans 
would  also  rise  and  live  again. 

Sometime  during  the  final  Paleolithic  period  and  the  Neolithic 
era,  a  revolution  occurred  in  food  production.  Meat  ceased  to  be 
the  chief  article  of  diet  and  was  replaced  by  plants  such  as  wheat 
and  barley  grown  extensively  as  crops  and  not  gathered  at  ran- 
dom in  the  wild.  The  relatively  egalitarian  tribal  structure  of  the 
Nile  Valley  broke  down  because  of  the  need  to  manage  and  control 


5 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Sais  (Sa  al  Hajar) 
Capital  ca.  730-400  B.C. 

LOWER  EGYPT 


Giza  (Al  Jizah)i 

Saqqarah  First  Dynasty  tombs,  - 

ca.  3100-2900  B.C., 
site  of  oldest  free-standing  stone 
structure  in  the  world 


® 

Capital 

• 

Place 

▲ 

Pyramid  of  Old  Kingdom 

Pyramid  of  Middle  Kingdom 

1 

Cataract 

Boundary 

( ) 

Modern  name  or  place 

Canal 

Middle  Kingdom's  southern 
boundary  to  ca.  1800  B.C. 


Figure  2.  Ancient  Egypt 
6 


Historical  Setting 


the  new  agricultural  economy  and  the  surplus  it  generated.  Long- 
distance trade  within  Egypt,  a  high  degree  of  craft  specialization, 
and  sustained  contacts  with  southwest  Asia  encouraged  the  develop- 
ment of  towns  and  a  hierarchical  structure  with  power  residing  in 
a  headman  who  was  believed  to  be  able  to  control  the  Nile  flood. 
The  headman's  power  rested  on  his  reputation  as  a  "rainmaker 
king."  The  towns  became  trading  centers,  political  centers,  and 
cult  centers.  Egyptologists  disagree  as  to  when  these  small,  autono- 
mous communities  were  unified  into  the  separate  kingdoms  of  Low- 
er Egypt  and  Upper  Egypt  and  as  to  when  the  two  kingdoms  were 
united  under  one  king. 

Nevertheless,  the  most  important  political  event  in  ancient  Egyp- 
tian history  was  the  unification  of  the  two  lands:  the  Black  Land 
of  the  Delta,  so-called  because  of  the  darkness  of  its  rich  soil,  and 
the  Red  Land  of  Upper  Egypt,  the  sun-baked  land  of  the  desert. 
The  rulers  of  Lower  Egypt  wore  the  red  crown  and  had  the  bee 
as  their  symbol.  The  leaders  of  Upper  Egypt  wore  the  white  crown 
and  took  the  sedge  as  their  emblem.  After  the  unification  of  the 
two  kingdoms,  the  pharaoh  wore  the  double  crown  symbolizing 
the  unity  of  the  two  lands. 

The  chief  god  of  the  Delta  was  Horus,  and  that  of  Upper  Egypt 
was  Seth.  The  unification  of  the  two  kingdoms  resulted  in  com- 
bining the  two  myths  concerning  the  gods.  Horus  was  the  son  of 
Osiris  and  Isis  and  avenged  the  evil  Seth's  slaying  of  his  father  by 
killing  Seth,  thus  showing  the  triumph  of  good  over  evil.  Horus 
took  over  his  father's  throne  and  was  regarded  as  the  ancestor  of 
the  pharaohs.  After  unification,  each  pharaoh  took  a  Horus  name 
that  indicated  that  he  was  the  reincarnation  of  Horus. 

According  to  tradition,  King  Menes  of  Upper  Egypt  united  the 
two  kingdoms  and  established  his  capital  at  Memphis,  then  known 
as  the  "White  Walls."  Some  scholars  believe  Menes  was  the  Hor- 
us King  Narmer,  whereas  others  prefer  to  regard  him  as  a  purely 
legendary  figure. 

With  the  emergence  of  a  strong,  centralized  government  under 
a  god-king,  the  country's  nascent  economic  and  political  institu- 
tions became  subject  to  royal  authority.  The  central  government, 
either  directly  or  through  major  officials,  became  the  employer  of 
soldiers,  retainers,  bureaucrats,  and  artisans  whose  goods  and  ser- 
vices benefited  the  upper  classes  and  the  state  gods.  In  the  course 
of  the  Early  Dynastic  Period,  artisans  and  civil  servants  working 
for  the  central  government  fashioned  the  highly  sophisticated  tra- 
ditions of  art  and  learning  that  thereafter  constituted  the  basic  pat- 
tern of  pharaonic  civilization. 


7 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


The  Old  Kingdom,  Middle  Kingdom,  and  Second  Intermediate 
Period,  2686-1552  B.C. 

Historians  have  given  the  name  "kingdom"  to  those  periods  in 
Egyptian  history  when  the  central  government  was  strong,  the  coun- 
try was  unified,  and  there  was  an  orderly  succession  of  pharaohs. 
At  times,  however,  central  authority  broke  down,  competing  centers 
of  power  emerged,  and  the  country  was  plunged  into  civil  war  or 
was  occupied  by  foreigners.  These  periods  are  known  as  "inter- 
mediate periods."  The  Old  Kingdom  and  the  Middle  Kingdom 
together  represent  an  important  single  phase  in  Egyptian  political 
and  cultural  development.  The  Third  Dynasty  reached  a  level  of 
competence  that  marked  a  plateau  of  achievement  for  ancient  Egypt. 
After  five  centuries  and  following  the  end  of  the  Sixth  Dynasty  (ca. 
2181  B.C.),  the  system  faltered,  and  a  century  and  a  half  of  civil 
war,  the  First  Intermediate  Period,  ensued.  The  reestablishment 
of  a  powerful  central  government  during  the  Twelfth  Dynasty, 
however,  reinstituted  the  patterns  of  the  Old  Kingdom.  Thus,  the 
Old  Kingdom  and  the  Middle  Kingdom  may  be  considered 
together. 

Divine  kingship  was  the  most  striking  feature  of  Egypt  in  these 
periods.  The  political  and  economic  system  of  Egypt  developed 
around  the  concept  of  a  god  incarnate  who  was  believed  through 
his  magical  powers  to  control  the  Nile  flood  for  the  benefit  of  the 
nation.  In  the  form  of  great  religious  complexes  centered  on  the 
pyramid  tombs,  the  cult  of  the  pharaoh,  the  god-king,  was  given 
monumental  expression  of  a  grandeur  unsurpassed  in  the  ancient 
Near  East. 

Central  to  the  Egyptian  view  of  kingship  was  the  concept  of  maat, 
loosely  translated  as  justice  and  truth  but  meaning  more  than  le- 
gal fairness  and  factual  accuracy.  It  referred  to  the  ideal  state  of 
the  universe  and  was  personified  as  the  goddess  Maat.  The  king 
was  responsible  for  its  appearance,  an  obligation  that  acted  as  a 
constraint  on  the  arbitrary  exercise  of  power. 

The  pharaoh  ruled  by  divine  decree.  In  the  early  years,  his  sons 
and  other  close  relatives  acted  as  his  principal  advisers  and  aides. 
By  the  Fourth  Dynasty,  there  was  a  grand  vizier  or  chief  minister, 
who  was  at  first  a  prince  of  royal  blood  and  headed  every  govern- 
ment department.  The  country  was  divided  into  norms  or  districts 
administered  by  nomarchs  or  governors.  At  first,  the  nomarchs  were 
royal  officials  who  moved  from  post  to  post  and  had  no  pretense 
to  independence  or  local  ties.  The  post  of  nomarch  eventually  be- 
came hereditary,  however,  and  nomarchs  passed  their  offices  to  their 
sons.  Hereditary  offices  and  the  possession  of  property  turned  these 


8 


Historical  Setting 


officials  into  a  landed  gentry.  Concurrently,  kings  began  reward- 
ing their  courtiers  with  gifts  of  tax-exempt  land.  From  the  middle 
of  the  Fifth  Dynasty  can  be  traced  the  beginnings  of  a  feudal  state 
with  an  increase  in  the  power  of  these  provincial  lords,  particular- 
ly in  Upper  Egypt. 

The  Old  Kingdom  ended  when  the  central  administration  col- 
lapsed in  the  late  Sixth  Dynasty.  This  collapse  seems  to  have  resulted 
at  least  in  part  from  climatic  conditions  that  caused  a  period  of 
low  Nile  waters  and  great  famine.  The  kings  would  have  been  dis- 
credited by  the  famine,  because  pharaonic  power  rested  in  part 
on  the  belief  that  the  king  controlled  the  Nile  flood.  In  the  absence 
of  central  authority,  the  hereditary  landowners  took  control  and 
assumed  responsibility  for  maintaining  order  in  their  own  areas. 
The  manors  of  their  estates  turned  into  miniature  courts,  and  Egypt 
splintered  into  a  number  of  feudal  states.  This  period  of  decen- 
tralized rule  and  confusion  lasted  from  the  Seventh  through  the 
Eleventh  dynasties. 

The  kings  of  the  Twelfth  Dynasty  restored  central  government 
control  and  a  single  strong  kingship  in  the  period  known  as  the 
Middle  Kingdom.  The  Middle  Kingdom  ended  with  the  conquest 
of  Egypt  by  the  Hyksos,  the  so-called  Shepherd  Kings.  The  Hyk- 
sos  were  Semitic  nomads  who  broke  into  the  Delta  from  the  north- 
east and  ruled  Egypt  from  Avaris  in  the  eastern  Delta. 

Pyramid  Building  in  the  Old  and  Middle  Kingdoms 

With  the  Third  Dynasty,  Egypt  entered  into  the  five  centuries 
of  high  culture  known  as  the  Pyramid  Age.  The  age  is  associated 
with  Chancellor  Imhotep,  the  adviser,  administrator,  and  architect 
of  Pharaoh  Djoser.  He  built  the  pharaoh's  funerary  complex,  in- 
cluding his  tomb,  the  Step  Pyramid,  at  Saqqarah.  Imhotep  is  famed 
as  the  inventor  of  building  in  dressed  stone.  His  architectural  genius 
lay  in  his  use  of  durable,  fine-quality  limestone  to  imitate  the  brick, 
wood,  and  reed  structures  that  have  since  disappeared. 

The  first  true  pyramid  was  built  by  Snoferu,  the  first  king  of 
the  Fourth  Dynasty.  His  son  and  successor,  Kheops,  built  the  Great 
Pyramid  at  Giza  (Al  Jizah);  this,  with  its  two  companions  on  the 
same  site,  was  considered  one  of  the  wonders  of  the  ancient  world. 
It  contained  well  over  2  million  blocks  of  limestone,  some  weigh- 
ing fifteen  tons  apiece.  The  casing  stones  of  the  Great  Pyramid 
were  stripped  off  to  build  medieval  Cairo  (Al  Qahirah). 

The  building  and  equipping  of  funerary  monuments  represent- 
ed the  single  largest  industry  through  the  Old  Kingdom  and,  after 
a  break,  the  Middle  Kingdom  as  well.  The  channeling  of  so  much 
of  the  country's  resources  into  building  and  equipping  funerary 


9 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


monuments  may  seem  unproductive  by  modern  standards,  but 
pyramid  building  seems  to  have  been  essential  for  the  growth  of 
pharaonic  civilization. 

As  Egyptologists  have  pointed  out,  in  ancient  societies  innova- 
tions in  technology  arose  not  so  much  from  deliberate  research  as 
from  the  consequences  of  developing  lavish  court  projects.  Equal- 
ly important,  the  continued  consumption  of  so  great  a  quantity 
of  wealth  and  of  the  products  of  artisanship  sustained  the  machinery 
that  produced  them  by  creating  fresh  demand  as  reign  succeeded 
reign. 

The  pyramids  of  the  pharaohs,  the  tombs  of  the  elite,  and  the 
burial  practices  of  the  poorer  classes  are  related  to  ancient  Egyp- 
tian religious  beliefs,  particularly  belief  in  the  afterlife.  The  Egyp- 
tian belief  that  life  would  continue  after  death  in  a  form  similar 
to  that  experienced  on  earth  was  an  important  element  in  the  de- 
velopment of  art  and  architecture  that  was  not  present  in  other  cul- 
tures. Thus,  in  Egypt,  a  dwelling  place  was  provided  for  the  dead 
in  the  form  of  a  pyramid  or  a  rock  tomb.  Life  was  magically  recreat- 
ed in  pictures  on  the  walls  of  the  tombs,  and  a  substitute  in  stone 
was  provided  for  the  perishable  body  of  the  deceased. 

The  New  Kingdom  and  Third  Intermediate  Period,  1552-664  B.C. 

Around  the  year  1600  B.C.,  a  semi-autonomous  Theban  dynasty 
under  the  suzerainty  of  the  Hyksos  became  determined  to  drive 
the  Shepherd  Kings  out  of  the  country  and  extend  its  own  power. 
The  country  was  liberated  from  the  Hyksos  and  unified  by  Ah- 
mose  (ruled  1570-1546  B.C.),  the  son  of  the  last  ruler  of  the  Seven- 
teenth Dynasty.  He  was  honored  by  subsequent  generations  as  the 
founder  of  a  new  line,  the  Eighteenth  Dynasty,  and  as  the  initia- 
tor of  a  glorious  chapter  in  Egyptian  history. 

During  the  New  Kingdom,  Egypt  reached  the  peak  of  its  pow- 
er, wealth,  and  territory.  The  government  was  reorganized  into 
a  military  state  with  an  administration  centralized  in  the  hands  of 
the  pharaoh  and  his  chief  minister.  Through  the  intensive  mili- 
tary campaigns  of  Pharaoh  Thutmose  III  (1490-1436  B.C.),  Pales- 
tine, Syria,  and  the  northern  Euphrates  area  in  Mesopotamia  were 
brought  within  the  New  Kingdom.  This  territorial  expansion  in- 
volved Egypt  in  a  complicated  system  of  diplomacy,  alliances, 
and  treaties.  After  Thutmose  III  established  the  empire,  succeed- 
ing pharaohs  frequently  engaged  in  warfare  to  defend  the  state 
against  the  pressures  of  Libyans  from  the  west,  Nubians  and  Ethio- 
pians (Kushites)  from  the  south,  Hittites  from  the  east,  and 
Philistines  (sea  people)  from  the  Aegean-Mediterranean  region  of 
the  north. 


10 


Historical  Setting 


Toward  the  end  of  the  Twentieth  Dynasty,  Egyptian  power 
declined  at  home  and  abroad.  Egypt  was  once  more  separated  into 
its  natural  divisions  of  Upper  Egypt  and  Lower  Egypt.  The  pharaoh 
now  ruled  from  his  residence-city  in  the  north,  and  Memphis  re- 
mained the  hallowed  capital  where  the  pharaoh  was  crowned  and 
his  jubilees  celebrated.  Upper  Egypt  was  governed  from  Thebes. 

During  the  Twenty- first  Dynasty,  the  pharaohs  ruled  from  Ta- 
nis  (San  al  Hajar  al  Qibliyah),  while  a  virtually  autonomous  the- 
ocracy controlled  Thebes.  Egyptian  control  in  Nubia  and  Ethiopia 
vanished.  The  pharaohs  of  the  Twenty-second  and  Twenty-third 
dynasties  were  mostly  Libyans.  Those  of  the  brief  Twenty-fourth 
Dynasty  were  Egyptians  of  the  Nile  Delta,  and  those  of  the  Twenty- 
fifth  were  Nubians  and  Ethiopians.  This  dynasty's  ventures  into 
Palestine  brought  about  an  Assyrian  intervention,  resulting  in  the 
rejection  of  the  Ethiopians  and  the  reestablishment  by  the  Assyri- 
ans of  Egyptian  rulers  at  Sais  (Sa  al  Hajar),  about  eighty  kilome- 
ters southeast  of  Alexandria  (Al  Iskandariyah)  on  the  Rosetta  branch 
of  the  Nile. 

Art  and  Architecture  in  the  New  Kingdom 

As  historian  Cyril  Aldred  has  said,  the  civilization  of  the  New 
Kingdom  seems  the  most  golden  of  all  the  epochs  of  Egyptian  his- 
tory, perhaps  because  so  much  of  its  wealth  remains.  The  rich  store 
of  treasures  from  the  tomb  of  Tutankhamen  (ruled  1347-1337  B.C.) 
gives  us  a  glimpse  of  the  dazzling  court  art  of  the  period  and  the 
skills  of  the  artisans  of  the  day. 

One  of  the  innovations  of  the  period  was  the  construction  of  rock 
tombs  for  the  pharaohs  and  the  elite.  Around  1500  B.C.,  Pharaoh 
Amenophis  I  abandoned  the  pyramid  in  favor  of  a  rock-hewn  tomb 
in  the  crags  of  western  Thebes  (present-day  Luxor).  His  example 
was  followed  by  his  successors,  who  for  the  next  four  centuries  cut 
their  tombs  in  the  Valley  of  the  Kings  and  built  their  mortuary 
temples  on  the  plain  below.  Other  wadis  or  river  valleys  were  sub- 
sequently used  for  the  tombs  of  queens  and  princes. 

Another  New  Kingdom  innovation  was  temple  building,  which 
began  with  Queen  Hatshepsut,  who  as  the  heiress  queen  seized 
power  in  default  of  male  claimants  to  the  throne.  She  was  particu- 
larly devoted  to  the  worship  of  the  god  Amun,  whose  cult  was  cen- 
tered at  Thebes.  She  built  a  splendid  temple  dedicated  to  him  and 
to  her  own  funerary  cult  at  Dayr  al  Bahri  in  western  Thebes. 

One  of  the  greatest  temples  still  standing  is  that  of  Pharaoh 
Amenophis  III  at  Thebes.  With  Amenophis  III,  statuary  on  an  enor- 
mous scale  makes  its  appearance.  The  most  notable  is  the  pair  of 


11 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

colossi,  the  so-called  Colossi  of  Memnon,  which  still  dominate  the 
Theban  plain  before  the  vanished  portal  of  his  funerary  temple. 

Ramesses  II  was  the  most  vigorous  builder  to  wear  the  double 
crown  of  Egypt.  Nearly  half  the  temples  remaining  in  Egypt  date 
from  his  reign.  Some  of  his  constructions  include  his  mortuary  tem- 
ple at  Thebes,  popularly  known  as  the  Ramesseum;  the  huge 
hypostyle  hall  at  Karnak,  the  rock-hewn  temple  at  Abu  Simbel  (Abu 
Sunbul);  and  his  new  capital  city  of  Pi  Ramesses. 

The  Cult  of  the  Sun  God  and  Akhenaten's  Monotheism 

During  the  New  Kingdom,  the  cult  of  the  sun  god  Ra  became 
increasingly  important  until  it  evolved  into  the  uncompromising 
monotheism  of  Pharaoh  Akhenaten  (Amenhotep  IV,  1364-1347 
B.C.).  According  to  the  cult,  Ra  created  himself  from  a  primeval 
mound  in  the  shape  of  a  pyramid  and  then  created  all  other  gods. 
Thus,  Ra  was  not  only  the  sun  god,  he  was  also  the  universe,  hav- 
ing created  himself  from  himself.  Ra  was  invoked  as  Aten  or  the 
Great  Disc  that  illuminated  the  world  of  the  living  and  the  dead. 

The  effect  of  these  doctrines  can  be  seen  in  the  sun  worship  of 
Pharaoh  Akhenaten,  who  became  an  uncompromising  monotheist. 
Aldred  has  speculated  that  monotheism  was  Akhenaten's  own  idea, 
the  result  of  regarding  Aten  as  a  self-created  heavenly  king  whose 
son,  the  pharaoh,  was  also  unique.  Akhenaten  made  Aten  the  su- 
preme state  god,  symbolized  as  a  rayed  disk  with  each  sunbeam 
ending  in  a  ministering  hand.  Other  gods  were  abolished,  their 
images  smashed,  their  names  excised,  their  temples  abandoned, 
and  their  revenues  impounded.  The  plural  word  for  god  was  sup- 
pressed. 

Sometime  in  the  fifth  or  sixth  year  of  his  reign,  Akhenaten  moved 
his  capital  to  a  new  city  called  Akhetaten  (present-day  Tall  al 
Amarinah,  also  seen  as  Tell  al  Amarna).  At  that  time,  the  pharaoh, 
previously  known  as  Amenhotep  IV,  adopted  the  name  Akhenat- 
en. His  wife,  Queen  Nefertiti,  shared  his  beliefs. 

Akhenaten's  religious  ideas  did  not  survive  his  death.  His  ideas 
were  abandoned  in  part  because  of  the  economic  collapse  that  en- 
sued at  the  end  of  his  reign.  To  restore  the  morale  of  the  nation, 
Akhenaten's  successor,  Tutankhamen,  appeased  the  offended  gods 
whose  resentment  would  have  blighted  all  human  enterprise.  Tem- 
ples were  cleaned  and  repaired,  new  images  made,  priests  appoint- 
ed, and  endowments  restored.  Akhenaten's  new  city  was  abandoned 
to  the  desert  sands. 

The  Late  Period,  664-323  B.C. 

The  Late  Period  includes  the  last  periods  during  which  ancient 


12 


Historical  Setting 


Egypt  functioned  as  an  independent  political  entity.  During  these 
years,  Egyptian  culture  was  under  pressure  from  major  civiliza- 
tions of  the  eastern  Mediterranean  and  the  Near  East.  The  socioeco- 
nomic system,  however,  had  a  vigor,  efficiency,  and  flexibility  that 
ensured  the  success  of  the  nation  during  these  years  of  triumph 
and  disaster. 

Throughout  the  Late  Period,  Egypt  made  a  largely  successful 
effort  to  maintain  an  effectively  centralized  state,  which,  except 
for  the  two  periods  of  Persian  occupation  (Twenty-seventh  and 
Thirty-first  dynasties),  was  based  on  earlier  indigenous  models. 
Late  Period  Egypt,  however,  displayed  certain  destabilizing  fea- 
tures, such  as  the  emergence  of  regionally  based  power  centers. 
These  contributed  to  the  revolts  against  the  Persian  occupation  but 
also  to  the  recurrent  internal  crises  of  the  Twenty-eighth,  Twenty- 
ninth,  and  Thirtieth  dynasties. 

The  Twenty-sixth  Dynasty  was  founded  by  Psammethichus  I, 
who  made  Egypt  a  powerful  and  united  kingdom.  This  dynasty, 
which  ruled  from  664  to  525  B.C.,  represented  the  last  great  age 
of  pharaonic  civilization.  The  dynasty  ended  when  a  Persian  in- 
vasion force  under  Cambyses,  the  son  of  Cyrus  the  Great,  dethroned 
the  last  pharaoh. 

Cambyses  established  himself  as  pharaoh  and  appears  to  have 
made  some  attempts  to  identify  his  regime  with  the  Egyptian  reli- 
gious hierarchy.  Egypt  became  a  Persian  province  serving  chiefly 
as  a  source  of  revenue  for  the  far-flung  Persian  (Achaemenid)  Em- 
pire. From  Cambyses  to  Darius  II  in  the  years  525  to  404  B.C., 
the  Persian  emperors  are  counted  as  the  Twenty- seventh  Dynasty. 

Periodic  Egyptian  revolts,  usually  aided  by  Greek  military  forces, 
were  unsuccessful  until  404  B.C.,  when  Egypt  regained  an  uneasy 
independence  under  the  short-lived,  native  Twenty-eighth,  Twenty- 
ninth,  and  Thirtieth  dynasties.  Independence  was  lost  again  in  343 
B.C.,  and  Persian  rule  was  oppressively  reinstated  and  continued 
until  335  B.C.,  in  what  is  sometimes  called  the  Thirty-first  Dy- 
nasty or  second  Persian  occupation  of  Egypt. 

Ptolemaic,  Roman,  and  Byzantine  Egypt,  332  B.C.-A.D. 
642 

The  Alexandrian  Conquest 

The  Persian  occupation  of  Egypt  ended  when  Alexander  the 
Great  defeated  the  Persians  at  the  Battle  of  Issus  (near  present- 
day  Iskenderun  in  Turkey)  in  November  333  B.C.  The  Egyp- 
tians, who  despised  the  monotheistic  Persians  and  chafed  under 


13 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Persian  rule,  welcomed  Alexander  as  a  deliverer.  In  the  autumn 
of  332  B.C.,  Alexander  entered  Memphis,  where,  like  a  true 
Hellene,  he  paid  homage  to  the  native  gods  and  was  apparently 
accepted  without  question  as  king  of  Egypt.  Also  like  a  true  Hellene, 
he  celebrated  the  occasion  with  competitive  games  and  a  drama 
and  music  festival  at  which  some  of  the  leading  artists  of  Greece 
were  present.  From  Memphis,  Alexander  marched  down  the 
western  arm  of  the  Nile  and  founded  the  city  of  Alexandria.  Then 
he  went  to  the  oasis  of  Siwa  (present-day  Siwah)  to  consult  the  oracle 
at  the  Temple  of  Amun,  the  Egyptian  god  whom  the  Greeks  iden- 
tified with  their  own  Zeus. 

The  Ptolemaic  Period 

After  Alexander's  death  of  malarial  fever  in  323  B.C.,  the 
Macedonian  commander  in  Egypt,  Ptolemy,  who  was  the  son  of 
Lagos,  one  of  Alexander's  seven  bodyguards,  managed  to  secure 
for  himself  the  satrapy  (provincial  governorship)  of  Egypt.  In  306 
B.C.,  Antigonus,  citing  the  principle  that  the  empire  Alexander 
created  should  remain  unified,  took  the  royal  title.  In  reaction,  his 
rivals  for  power,  Ptolemy  of  Egypt,  Cassander  of  Macedonia,  and 
Seleucus  of  Syria,  countered  by  declaring  themselves  kings  of  their 
respective  dominions.  Thus  came  into  existence  the  three  great 
monarchies  that  were  to  dominate  the  Hellenistic  world  until,  one 
by  one,  they  were  absorbed  into  the  Roman  Empire. 

The  dynasty  Ptolemy  founded  in  Egypt  was  known  as  the  line 
of  Ptolemaic  pharaohs  and  endured  until  the  suicide  of  Cleopatra 
in  30  B.C.,  at  which  time  direct  Roman  control  was  instituted. 
The  early  Ptolemies  were  hardheaded  administrators  and  business 
people,  anxious  to  make  the  state  that  they  created  stable,  wealthy, 
and  influential.  The  Ptolemies  had  their  eyes  directed  outward  to 
the  eastern  Mediterranean  world  in  which  they  sought  to  play  a 
part.  Egypt  was  their  basis  of  power,  their  granary,  and  the  source 
of  their  wealth. 

Under  the  early  Ptolemies,  the  culture  was  exclusively  Greek. 
Greek  was  the  language  of  the  court,  the  army,  and  the  adminis- 
tration. The  Ptolemies  founded  the  university,  the  museum,  and 
the  library  at  Alexandria  and  built  the  lighthouse  at  Pharos.  A  canal 
to  the  Red  Sea  was  opened,  and  Greek  sailors  explored  new  trade 
routes. 

Whereas  many  Egyptians  adopted  Greek  speech,  dress,  and  much 
of  Greek  culture,  the  Greeks  also  borrowed  much  from  the  Egyp- 
tians, particularly  in  religion.  In  this  way,  a  mixed  culture  was 
formed  along  with  a  hybrid  art  that  combined  Egyptian  themes  with 
elements  of  Hellenistic  culture.  Examples  of  this  are  the  grandiose 


14 


Historical  Setting 


temples  built  by  the  Ptolemies  at  Edfu  (present-day  Idfu)  and  Den- 
dera  (present-day  Dandarah). 

The  last  of  the  Ptolemies  was  Cleopatra,  the  wife  of  Julius  Cae- 
sar and  later  Mark  Antony.  During  her  reign,  Egypt  again  became 
a  factor  in  Mediterranean  politics.  Cleopatra  was  a  woman  of  genius 
and  a  worthy  opponent  of  Rome.  Her  main  preoccupations  were 
to  preserve  the  independence  of  Egypt,  to  extend  its  territory  if 
possible,  and  to  secure  the  throne  for  her  children.  After  the  ruinous 
defeat  at  Actium  in  31  B.C.,  Cleopatra  was  unable  to  continue 
the  fight  against  Rome.  Rather  than  witness  the  incorporation  of 
Egypt  into  the  Roman  Empire,  she  chose  to  die  by  the  bite  of  the 
asp.  The  asp  was  considered  the  minister  of  the  sun  god  whose 
bite  conferred  not  only  immortality  but  also  divinity. 

Egypt  under  Rome  and  Byzantium,  30  B.C.-A.D.  640 

With  the  establishment  of  Roman  rule  by  Emperor  Augustus 
in  30  B.C. ,  more  than  six  centuries  of  Roman  and  Byzantine  con- 
trol began.  Egypt  again  became  the  province  of  an  empire,  as  it 
had  been  under  the  Persians  and  briefly  under  Alexander.  As  the 
principal  source  of  the  grain  supply  for  Rome,  it  came  under  the 
direct  control  of  the  emperor  in  his  capacity  as  supreme  military 
chief,  and  a  strong  force  was  garrisoned  there.  Gradually,  Latin 
replaced  Greek  as  the  language  of  higher  administration.  In  212 
Rome  gave  the  Egyptians  citizenship  in  the  empire. 

The  emperor  ruled  as  successor  to  the  Ptolemies  with  the  title 
of  "Pharaoh,  Lord  of  the  Two  Lands,"  and  the  conventional  di- 
vine attributes  assigned  to  Egyptian  kings  were  attributed  to  him. 
Rome  was  careful,  however,  to  bring  the  native  priesthood  under 
its  control,  although  guaranteeing  traditional  priestly  rights  and 
privileges. 

Augustus  and  his  successors  continued  the  tradition  of  building 
temples  to  the  local  gods  on  which  the  rulers  and  the  gods  were 
depicted  in  the  Egyptian  manner.  The  Romans  completed  the  con- 
struction of  an  architectural  jewel,  the  Temple  of  I  sis  on  Philae 
Island  (Jazirat  Filah),  which  was  begun  under  the  Ptolemies.  A 
new  artistic  development  during  this  period  was  the  painting  of 
portraits  on  wood,  an  art  that  originated  in  the  Fayyum  region. 
These  portraits  were  placed  on  the  coffins  of  mummies. 

The  general  pattern  of  Roman  Egypt  included  a  strong,  cen- 
tralized administration  supported  by  a  military  force  large  enough 
to  guarantee  internal  order  and  to  provide  security  against  maraud- 
ing nomads.  There  was  an  elaborate  bureaucracy  with  an  extend- 
ed system  of  registers  and  controls,  and  a  social  hierarchy  based 
on  caste  and  privilege  with  preferred  treatment  for  the  Hellenized 


15 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

population  of  the  towns  over  the  rural  and  native  Egyptian  popu- 
lation. The  best  land  continued  to  form  the  royal  domain. 

The  empire  that  Rome  established  was  wider,  more  enduring, 
and  better  administered  than  any  the  Mediterranean  world  had 
known.  For  centuries,  it  provided  an  ease  of  communication  and 
a  unity  of  culture  throughout  the  empire  that  would  not  be  seen 
again  until  modern  times.  In  Western  Europe,  Rome  founded  a 
tradition  of  public  order  and  municipal  government  that  outlasted 
the  empire  itself.  In  the  East,  however,  where  Rome  came  into 
contact  with  older  and  more  advanced  civilizations,  Roman  rule 
was  less  successful. 

The  story  of  Roman  Egypt  is  a  sad  record  of  shortsighted  ex- 
ploitation leading  to  economic  and  social  decline.  Like  the  Ptole- 
mies, Rome  treated  Egypt  as  a  mere  estate  to  be  exploited  for  the 
benefit  of  the  rulers.  But  however  incompetently  some  of  the  later 
Ptolemies  managed  their  estate,  much  of  the  wealth  they  derived 
from  it  remained  in  the  country  itself.  Rome,  however,  was  an  ab- 
sentee landlord,  and  a  large  part  of  the  grain  delivered  as  rent  by 
the  royal  tenants  or  as  tax  by  the  landowners  as  well  as  the  numer- 
ous money-taxes  were  sent  to  Rome  and  represented  a  complete 
loss  to  Egypt. 

The  history  of  Egypt  in  this  period  cannot  be  separated  from 
the  history  of  the  Roman  Empire.  Thus,  Egypt  was  affected  by 
the  spread  of  Christianity  in  the  empire  in  the  first  century  A.D. 
and  by  the  decline  of  the  empire  during  the  third  century  A.D. 
Christianity  arrived  early  in  Egypt,  and  the  new  religion  quickly 
spread  from  Alexandria  into  the  hinterland,  reaching  Upper  Egypt 
by  the  second  century.  According  to  some  Christian  traditions,  St. 
Mark  brought  Christianity  to  Egypt  in  A.D.  37,  and  the  church 
in  Alexandria  was  founded  in  A.D.  40.  The  Egyptian  Christians 
are  called  Copts,  a  word  derived  from  the  Greek  word  for  the  coun- 
try, Aegyptos.  In  the  Coptic  language,  the  Copts  also  called  them- 
selves "people  of  Egypt."  Thus  the  word  Copt  originally  implied 
nationality  rather  than  religion. 

In  the  third  century  A.D.,  the  decay  of  the  empire  gradually 
affected  the  Roman  administration  of  Egypt.  Roman  bureaucracy 
became  overcentralized  and  poorly  managed.  The  number  of  quali- 
fied applicants  for  administrative  positions  was  sharply  reduced  by 
Roman  civil  war,  pestilence,  and  conflict  among  claimants  to  im- 
perial power. 

A  renaissance  of  imperial  authority  and  effectiveness  took  place 
under  Emperor  Diocletian.  During  his  reign  (284-305),  the  parti- 
tion of  the  Roman  Empire  into  eastern  and  western  segments  be- 
gan. Diocletian  inaugurated  drastic  political  and  fiscal  reforms  and 


16 


Historical  Setting 


sought  to  simplify  imperial  administration.  Under  Diocletian,  the 
administrative  unity  of  Egypt  was  destroyed  by  transforming  Egypt 
from  one  province  into  three.  Seeing  Christianity  as  a  threat  to 
Roman  state  religion  and  thus  to  the  unity  of  the  empire,  Diocle- 
tian launched  a  violent  persecution  of  Christians. 

The  Egyptian  church  was  particularly  affected  by  the  Roman 
persecutions,  beginning  with  Septimius  Severus's  edict  of  202  dis- 
solving the  influential  Christian  School  of  Alexandria  and  forbid- 
ding future  conversions  to  Christianity.  In  303  Emperor  Diocletian 
issued  a  decree  ordering  all  churches  demolished,  all  sacred  books 
burned,  and  all  Christians  who  were  not  officials  made  slaves.  The 
decree  was  carried  out  for  three  years,  a  period  known  as  the  "Era 
of  Martyrs."  The  lives  of  many  Egyptian  Christians  were  spared 
only  because  more  workers  were  needed  in  the  porphyry  quarries 
and  emerald  mines  that  were  worked  by  Egyptian  Christians  as 
"convict  labor." 

Emperor  Constantine  I  (324-337)  ruled  both  the  eastern  and 
western  parts  of  the  empire.  In  330  he  established  his  capital  at 
Byzantium,  which  he  renamed  Constantinople  (present-day  Istan- 
bul). Egypt  was  governed  from  Constantinople  as  part  of  the  Byzan- 
tine Empire.  In  312  Constantine  established  Christianity  as  the 
official  religion  of  the  empire,  and  his  Edict  of  Milan  of  313  estab- 
lished freedom  of  worship. 

By  the  middle  of  the  fourth  century,  Egypt  was  largely  a  Chris- 
tian country.  In  324  the  ecumenical  Council  of  Nicea  established 
the  patriarchate  of  Alexandria  as  second  only  to  that  of  Rome;  its 
jurisdiction  extended  over  Egypt  and  Libya.  The  patriarchate  had 
a  profound  influence  on  the  early  development  of  the  Christian 
church  because  it  helped  to  clarify  belief  and  to  formulate  dogmas. 
In  333  the  number  of  Egyptian  bishops  was  estimated  at  nearly  100. 

After  the  fall  of  Rome,  the  Byzantine  Empire  became  the  center 
of  both  political  and  religious  power.  The  political  and  religious 
conflict  between  the  Copts  of  Egypt  and  the  rulers  of  Byzantium 
began  when  the  patriarchate  of  Constantinople  began  to  rival  that 
of  Alexandria.  The  Council  of  Chalcedon  in  451  initiated  the  great 
schism  that  separated  the  Egyptian  Church  from  Catholic  Christen- 
dom. The  schism  had  momentous  consequences  for  the  future  of 
Christianity  in  the  East  and  for  Byzantine  power.  Ostensibly,  the 
council  was  called  to  decide  on  the  nature  of  Christ.  If  Christ  were 
both  God  and  man,  had  he  two  natures?  The  Arians  had  already 
been  declared  heretics  for  denying  or  minimizing  the  divinity  of 
Christ;  the  opposite  was  to  ignore  or  minimize  his  humanity.  Coptic 
Christians  were  Monophy sites  who  believed  that  after  the  incar- 
nation Christ  had  but  one  nature  with  dual  aspects.  The  council, 


17 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


however,  declared  that  Christ  had  two  natures  and  that  he  was 
equally  human  and  equally  divine.  The  Coptic  Church  refused  to 
accept  the  council's  decree  and  rejected  the  bishop  sent  to  Egypt. 
Henceforth,  the  Coptic  Church  was  in  schism  from  the  Catholic 
Church  as  represented  by  the  Byzantine  Empire  and  the  Byzan- 
tine Church. 

For  nearly  two  centuries,  Monophysitism  in  Egypt  became  the 
symbol  of  national  and  religious  resistance  to  Byzantium's  politi- 
cal and  religious  authority.  The  Egyptian  Church  was  severely  per- 
secuted by  Byzantium.  Churches  were  closed,  and  Coptic  Christians 
were  killed,  tortured,  and  exiled  in  an  effort  to  force  the  Egyptian 
Church  to  accept  Byzantine  orthodoxy.  The  Coptic  Church  con- 
tinued to  appoint  its  own  patriarchs,  refusing  to  accept  those  chosen 
by  Constantinople  and  attempting  to  depose  them.  The  break  with 
Catholicism  in  the  fifth  century  converted  the  Coptic  Church  to 
a  national  church  with  deeply  rooted  traditions  that  have  remained 
unchanged  to  this  day. 

By  the  seventh  century,  the  religious  persecutions  and  the  grow- 
ing pressure  of  taxation  had  engendered  great  hatred  of  the  Byzan- 
tines. As  a  result,  the  Egyptians  offered  little  resistance  to  the 
conquering  armies  of  Islam. 

Medieval  Egypt 

The  Arab  Conquest,  639-41 

Perhaps  the  most  important  event  to  occur  in  Egypt  since  the 
unification  of  the  Two  Lands  by  King  Menes  was  the  Arab  con- 
quest of  Egypt.  The  conquest  of  the  country  by  the  armies  of  Is- 
lam under  the  command  of  the  Muslim  hero,  Amr  ibn  al  As, 
transformed  Egypt  from  a  predominantly  Christian  country  to  a 
Muslim  country  in  which  the  Arabic  language  and  culture  were 
adopted  even  by  those  who  clung  to  their  Christian  or  Jewish  faiths. 

The  conquest  of  Egypt  was  part  of  the  Arab/Islamic  expansion 
that  began  when  the  Prophet  Muhammad  died  and  Arab  tribes 
began  to  move  out  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula  into  Iraq  and  Syria. 
Amr  ibn  al  As,  who  led  the  Arab  army  into  Egypt,  was  made  a 
military  commander  by  the  Prophet  himself. 

Amr  crossed  into  Egypt  on  December  12,  639,  at  Al  Arish  with 
an  army  of  about  4,000  men  on  horseback,  armed  with  lances, 
swords,  and  bows.  The  army's  objective  was  the  fortress  of  Baby- 
lon (Bab  al  Yun)  opposite  the  island  of  Rawdah  in  the  Nile  at  the 
apex  of  the  Delta.  The  fortress  was  the  key  to  the  conquest  of  Egypt 
because  an  advance  up  the  Delta  to  Alexandria  could  not  be  risked 
until  the  fortress  was  taken. 


18 


19 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

In  June  640,  reinforcements  for  the  Arab  army  arrived,  increas- 
ing Amr's  forces  to  between  8,000  and  12,000  men.  In  July  the 
Arab  and  Byzantine  armies  met  on  the  plains  of  Heliopolis. 
Although  the  Byzantine  army  was  routed,  the  results  were  in- 
conclusive because  the  Byzantine  troops  fled  to  Babylon.  Final- 
ly, after  a  six-month  siege,  the  fortress  fell  to  the  Arabs  on  April  9, 
641. 

The  Arab  army  then  marched  to  Alexandria,  which  was  not  pre- 
pared to  resist  despite  its  well  fortified  condition.  Consequently, 
the  governor  of  Alexandria  agreed  to  surrender,  and  a  treaty  was 
signed  in  November  641 .  The  following  year,  the  Byzantines  broke 
the  treaty  and  attempted  unsuccessfully  to  retake  the  city. 

Muslim  conquerors  habitually  gave  the  people  they  defeated  three 
alternatives:  converting  to  Islam,  retaining  their  religion  with  free- 
dom of  worship  in  return  for  the  payment  of  the  poll  tax,  or  war. 
In  surrendering  to  the  Arab  armies,  the  Byzantines  agreed  to  the 
second  option.  The  Arab  conquerors  treated  the  Egyptian  Copts 
well.  During  the  battle  for  Egypt,  the  Copts  had  either  remained 
neutral  or  had  actively  supported  the  Arabs.  After  the  surrender, 
the  Coptic  patriarch  was  reinstated,  exiled  bishops  were  called 
home,  and  churches  that  had  been  forcibly  turned  over  to  the  Byzan- 
tines were  returned  to  the  Copts.  Amr  allowed  Copts  who  held  office 
to  retain  their  positions  and  appointed  Copts  to  other  offices. 

Amr  moved  the  capital  south  to  a  new  city  called  Al  Fustat 
(present-day  Old  Cairo).  The  mosque  he  built  there  bears  his  name 
and  still  stands,  although  it  has  been  much  rebuilt. 

For  two  centuries  after  the  conquest,  Egypt  was  a  province  ruled 
by  a  line  of  governors  appointed  by  the  caliphs  in  the  east.  Egypt 
provided  abundant  grain  and  tax  revenue.  In  time  most  of  the  peo- 
ple accepted  the  Muslim  faith,  and  the  Arabic  language  became 
the  language  of  government,  culture,  and  commerce.  The  Arabi- 
zation  of  the  country  was  aided  by  the  continued  settiement  of  Arab 
tribes  in  Egypt. 

From  the  time  of  the  conquest  onward,  Egypt's  history  was  in- 
tertwined with  the  history  of  the  Arab  world.  Thus,  in  the  eighth 
century,  Egypt  felt  the  effects  of  the  Arab  civil  war  that  resulted 
in  the  defeat  of  the  Umayyad  Dynasty,  the  establishment  of  the 
Abbasid  caliphate,  and  the  transfer  of  the  capital  of  the  empire  from 
Damascus  to  Baghdad.  For  Egypt,  the  transfer  of  the  capital  far- 
ther east  meant  a  weakening  of  control  by  the  central  government. 
When  the  Abbasid  caliphate  began  to  decline  in  the  ninth  centu- 
ry, local  autonomous  dynasties  arose  to  control  the  political,  eco- 
nomic, social,  and  cultural  life  of  the  country. 


20 


Historical  Setting 


The  Tulinids,  Ikhshidids,  Fatimids,  and  Ayyubids,  868-1260 

A  new  era  began  in  Egypt  with  the  arrival  in  Al  Fustat  in  868 
of  Ahmad  ibn  Tulun  as  governor  on  behalf  of  his  stepfather,  Bayak- 
bah,  a  chamberlain  in  Baghdad  to  whom  Caliph  Al  Mutazz  had 
granted  Egypt  as  a  fief.  Ahmad  ibn  Tulun  inaugurated  the  auton- 
omy of  Egypt  and,  with  the  succession  of  his  son,  Khumarawayh, 
to  power,  established  the  principle  of  locally  based  hereditary  rule. 
Autonomy  greatly  benefited  Egypt  because  the  local  dynasty  halt- 
ed or  reduced  the  drain  of  revenue  from  the  country  to  Baghdad. 
The  Tulinid  state  ended  in  905  when  imperial  troops  entered  Al 
Fustat.  For  the  next  thirty  years,  Egypt  was  again  under  the  direct 
control  of  the  central  government  in  Baghdad. 

The  next  autonomous  dynasty  in  Egypt,  the  Ikhshidid,  was 
founded  by  Muhammad  ibn  Tughj,  who  arrived  as  governor  in 
935.  The  dynasty's  name  comes  from  the  title  of  Ikhshid  given  to 
Tughj  by  the  caliph.  This  dynasty  ruled  Egypt  until  the  Fatimid 
conquest  of  969. 

The  Tulinids  and  the  Ikhshidids  brought  Egypt  peace  and 
prosperity  by  pursuing  wise  agrarian  policies  that  increased  yields, 
by  eliminating  tax  abuses,  and  by  reforming  the  administration. 
Neither  the  Tulinids  nor  the  Ikhshidids  sought  to  withdraw  Egypt 
from  the  Islamic  empire  headed  by  the  caliph  in  Baghdad.  Ahmad 
ibn  Tulun  and  his  successors  were  orthodox  Sunni  Muslims,  loyal 
to  the  principle  of  Islamic  unity.  Their  purpose  was  to  carve  out 
an  autonomous  and  hereditary  principality  under  loose  caliphal 
authority. 

The  Fatimids,  the  next  dynasty  to  rule  Egypt,  unlike  the  Tulinids 
and  the  Ikhshidids,  wanted  independence,  not  autonomy,  from 
Baghdad.  In  addition,  as  heads  of  a  great  religious  movement, 
Ismaili  Shia  Islam  (see  Glossary),  they  also  challenged  the  Sunni 
Abbasids  for  the  caliphate  itself.  The  name  of  the  dynasty  is  derived 
from  Fatima,  the  daughter  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad  and  the  wife 
of  Ali,  the  fourth  caliph  and  the  founder  of  Shia  Islam.  The  leader 
of  the  movement,  who  first  established  the  dynasty  in  Tunisia  in 
906,  claimed  descent  from  Fatima. 

Under  the  Fatimids,  Egypt  became  the  center  of  a  vast  empire, 
which  at  its  peak  comprised  North  Africa,  Sicily,  Palestine,  Syria, 
the  Red  Sea  coast  of  Africa,  Yemen,  and  the  Hijaz  in  Arabia,  in- 
cluding the  holy  cities  of  Mecca  and  Medina.  Control  of  the  holy 
cities  conferred  enormous  prestige  on  a  Muslim  sovereign  and  the 
power  to  use  the  yearly  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  to  his  advantage.  Cairo 
was  the  seat  of  the  Shia  caliph,  who  was  the  head  of  a  religion  as 
well  as  the  sovereign  of  an  empire.  The  Fatimids  established  Al 


21 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Azhar  in  Cairo  as  an  intellectual  center  where  scholars  and  teachers 
elaborated  the  doctrines  of  the  Ismaili  Shia  faith. 

The  first  century  of  Fatimid  rule  represents  a  high  point  for 
medieval  Egypt.  The  administration  were  reorganized  and  expand- 
ed. It  functioned  with  admirable  efficiency:  tax  farming  was 
abolished,  and  strict  probity  and  regularity  in  the  assessment  and 
collection  of  taxes  were  enforced.  The  revenues  of  Egypt  were  high 
and  were  then  augmented  by  the  tribute  of  subject  provinces. 

This  period  was  also  an  age  of  great  commercial  expansion  and 
industrial  production.  The  Fatimids  fostered  both  agriculture  and 
industry  and  developed  an  important  export  trade.  Realizing  the 
importance  of  trade  both  for  the  prosperity  of  Egypt  and  for  the 
extension  of  Fatimid  influence,  the  Fatimids  developed  a  wide  net- 
work of  commercial  relations,  notably  with  Europe  and  India,  two 
areas  with  which  Egypt  had  previously  had  almost  no  contact. 

Egyptian  ships  sailed  to  Sicily  and  Spain.  Egyptian  fleets  con- 
trolled the  eastern  Mediterranean,  and  the  Fatimids  established 
close  relations  with  the  Italian  city  states,  particularly  Amalfi  and 
Pisa.  The  two  great  harbors  of  Alexandria  in  Egypt  and  Tripoli 
in  present-day  Lebanon  became  centers  of  world  trade.  In  the  east, 
the  Fatimids  gradually  extended  their  sovereignty  over  the  ports 
and  outlets  of  the  Red  Sea  for  trade  with  India  and  Southeast  Asia 
and  tried  to  win  influence  on  the  shores  of  the  Indian  Ocean.  In 
lands  far  beyond  the  reach  of  Fatimid  arms,  the  Ismaili  mission- 
ary and  the  Egyptian  merchant  went  side  by  side. 

In  the  end,  however,  the  Fatimid  bid  for  world  power  failed. 
A  weakened  and  shrunken  empire  was  unable  to  resist  the  crusaders, 
who  in  July  1099  captured  Jerusalem  from  the  Fatimid  garrison 
after  a  siege  of  five  weeks. 

The  crusaders  were  driven  from  Jerusalem  and  most  of  Pales- 
tine by  the  great  Kurdish  general  Salah  ad  Din  ibn  Ayyub,  known 
in  the  West  as  Saladin.  Saladin  came  to  Egypt  in  1168  in  the  en- 
tourage of  his  uncle,  the  Kurdish  general  Shirkuh,  who  became 
the  wazir,  or  senior  minister,  of  the  last  Fatimid  caliph.  After  the 
death  of  his  uncle,  Saladin  became  the  master  of  Egypt.  The  dy- 
nasty he  founded  in  Egypt,  called  the  Ayyubid,  ruled  until  1260. 

Saladin  abolished  the  Fatimid  caliphate,  which  by  this  time  was 
dead  as  a  religious  force,  and  returned  Egypt  to  Sunni  orthodoxy. 
He  restored  and  tightened  the  bonds  that  tied  Egypt  to  eastern  Is- 
lam and  reincorporated  Egypt  into  the  Sunni  fold  represented  by 
the  Abbasid  caliphate  in  Baghdad.  At  the  same  time,  Egypt  was 
opened  to  the  new  social  changes  and  intellectual  movements  that 
had  been  emerging  in  the  East.  Saladin  introduced  into  Egypt  the 
madrasah,  a  mosque-college,  which  was  the  intellectual  heart  of  the 


22 


Historical  Setting 


Sunni  religious  revival.  Even  Al  Azhar,  founded  by  the  Fatimids, 
became  in  time  the  center  of  Islamic  orthodoxy. 

In  1193  Saladin  died  peacefully  in  Damascus.  After  his  death, 
his  dominions  split  up  into  a  loose  dynastic  empire  controlled  by 
members  of  his  family,  the  Ayyubids.  Within  this  empire,  the  Ay- 
yubid  sultans  of  Egypt  were  paramount  because  their  control  of 
a  rich,  well-defined  territory  gave  them  a  secure  basis  of  power. 

Economically,  the  Ayyubid  period  was  one  of  growth  and 
prosperity.  Italian,  French,  and  Catalan  merchants  operated  in 
ports  under  Ayyubid  control.  Egyptian  products,  including  alum, 
for  which  there  was  a  great  demand,  were  exported  to  Europe. 
Egypt  also  profited  from  the  transit  trade  from  the  East.  Like  the 
Fatimids  before  him,  Saladin  brought  Yemen  under  his  control, 
thus  securing  both  ends  of  the  Red  Sea  and  an  important  com- 
mercial and  strategic  advantage. 

Culturally,  too,  the  Ayyubid  period  was  one  of  great  activity. 
Egypt  became  a  center  of  Arab  scholarship  and  literature  and,  along 
with  Syria,  acquired  a  cultural  primacy  that  it  has  retained  through 
the  modern  period.  The  prosperity  of  the  cities,  the  patronage  of 
the  Ayyubid  princes,  and  the  Sunni  revival  made  the  Ayyubid  peri- 
od a  cultural  high  point  in  Egyptian  and  Arab  history. 

The  Mamluks,  1250-1517 

To  understand  the  history  of  Egypt  during  the  later  Middle  Ages, 
it  is  necessary  to  consider  two  major  events  in  the  eastern  Arab 
world:  the  migration  of  Turkish  tribes  during  the  Abbasid  caliphate 
and  their  eventual  domination  of  it,  and  the  Mongol  invasion.  Turk- 
ish tribes  began  moving  west  from  the  Eurasian  steppes  in  the  sixth 
century.  As  the  Abbasid  Empire  weakened,  Turkish  tribes  began 
to  cross  the  frontier  in  search  of  pasturage.  The  Turks  converted 
to  Islam  within  a  few  decades  after  entering  the  Middle  East.  The 
Turks  also  entered  the  Middle  East  as  mamluks  (slaves)  employed 
in  the  armies  of  Arab  rulers.  Mamluks,  although  slaves,  were  usual- 
ly paid,  sometimes  handsomely,  for  their  services.  Indeed,  a  mam- 
luk's  service  as  a  soldier  and  member  of  an  elite  unit  or  as  an 
imperial  guard  was  an  enviable  first  step  in  a  career  that  opened 
to  him  the  possibility  of  occupying  the  highest  offices  in  the  state. 
Mamluk  training  was  not  restricted  to  military  matters  and  often 
included  languages  and  literary  and  administrative  skills  to  ena- 
ble the  mamluks  to  occupy  administrative  posts. 

In  the  late  tenth  century,  a  new  wave  of  Turks  entered  the  em- 
pire as  free  warriors  and  conquerors.  One  group  occupied  Bagh- 
dad, took  control  of  the  central  government,  and  reduced  the 


23 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Abbasid  caliphs  to  puppets.  The  other  moved  west  into  Anatolia, 
which  it  conquered  from  a  weakened  Byzantine  Empire. 

The  Mamluks  had  already  established  themselves  in  Egypt  and 
were  able  to  establish  their  own  empire  because  the  Mongols  de- 
stroyed the  Abbasid  caliphate.  In  1258  the  Mongol  invaders  put 
to  death  the  last  Abbasid  caliph  in  Baghdad.  The  following  year, 
a  Mongol  army  of  as  many  as  120,000  men  commanded  by  Hulagu 
Khan  crossed  the  Euphrates  and  entered  Syria.  Meanwhile,  in 
Egypt  the  last  Ayyubid  sultan  had  died  in  1250,  and  political  con- 
trol of  the  state  had  passed  to  the  Mamluk  guards  whose  generals 
seized  the  sultanate.  In  1258,  soon  after  the  news  of  the  Mongol 
entry  into  Syria  had  reached  Egypt,  the  Turkish  Mamluk  Qutuz 
declared  himself  sultan  and  organized  the  successful  military 
resistance  to  the  Mongol  advance.  The  decisive  battle  was  fought 
in  1260  at  Ayn  Jalut  in  Palestine,  where  Qutuz's  forces  defeated 
the  Mongol  army. 

An  important  role  in  the  fighting  was  played  by  Baybars  I,  who 
shortly  afterwards  assassinated  Qutuz  and  was  chosen  sultan.  Bay- 
bars  I  (1260-77)  was  the  real  founder  of  the  Mamluk  Empire.  He 
came  from  the  elite  corps  of  Turkish  Mamluks,  the  Bahriyyah, 
so-called  because  they  were  garrisoned  on  the  island  of  Rawdah 
on  the  Nile  River.  Baybars  I  established  his  rule  firmly  in  Syria, 
forcing  the  Mongols  back  to  their  Iraqi  territories. 

At  the  end  of  the  fourteenth  century,  power  passed  from  the  origi- 
nal Turkish  elite,  the  Bahriyyah  Mamluks,  to  Circassians,  whom 
the  Turkish  Mamluk  sultans  had  in  their  turn  recruited  as  slave 
soldiers.  Between  1260  and  1517,  Mamluk  sultans  of  Turco- 
Circassian  origin  ruled  an  empire  that  stretched  from  Egypt  to  Syria 
and  included  the  holy  cities  of  Mecca  and  Medina.  As  "shadow 
caliphs,"  the  Mamluk  sultans  organized  the  yearly  pilgrimages  to 
Mecca.  Because  of  Mamluk  power,  the  western  Islamic  world  was 
shielded  from  the  threat  of  the  Mongols.  The  great  cities,  espe- 
cially Cairo,  the  Mamluk  capital,  grew  in  prestige.  By  the  four- 
teenth century,  Cairo  had  become  the  preeminent  religious  center 
of  the  Muslim  world. 

Egypt  under  the  Ottoman  Empire 

In  1517  the  Ottoman  sultan  Selim  I  (1512-20),  known  as  Selim 
the  Grim,  conquered  Egypt,  defeating  the  Mamluk  forces  at  Ar 
Raydaniyah,  immediately  outside  Cairo.  The  origins  of  the  Otto- 
man Empire  go  back  to  the  Turkish- speaking  tribes  who  crossed 
the  frontier  into  Arab  lands  beginning  in  the  tenth  century.  These 
Turkish  tribes  established  themselves  in  Baghdad  and  Anatolia, 
but  they  were  destroyed  by  the  Mongols  in  the  thirteenth  century. 


24 


Historical  Setting 


In  the  wake  of  the  Mongol  invasion,  petty  Turkish  dynasties 
called  amirates  were  formed  in  Anatolia.  The  leader  of  one  of  those 
dynasties  was  Osman  (1280-1324),  the  founder  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire.  In  the  thirteenth  century,  his  amirate  was  one  of  many; 
by  the  sixteenth  century,  the  amirate  had  become  an  empire,  one 
of  the  largest  and  longest  lived  in  world  history.  By  the  fourteenth 
century,  the  Ottomans  already  had  a  substantial  empire  in  Eastern 
Europe.  In  1453  they  conquered  Constantinople,  the  Byzantine 
capital,  which  became  the  Ottoman  capital  and  was  renamed  Istan- 
bul. Between  1512  and  1520,  the  Ottomans  added  the  Arab 
provinces,  including  Egypt,  to  their  empire. 

In  Egypt  the  victorious  Selim  I  left  behind  one  of  his  most  trust- 
ed collaborators,  Khair  Bey,  as  the  ruler  of  Egypt.  Khair  Bey  ruled 
as  the  sultan's  vassal,  not  as  a  provincial  governor.  He  kept  his 
court  in  the  citadel,  the  ancient  residence  of  the  rulers  of  Egypt. 
Although  Selim  I  did  away  with  the  Mamluk  sultanate,  neither 
he  nor  his  successors  succeeded  in  extinguishing  Mamluk  power 
and  influence  in  Egypt. 

Only  in  the  first  century  of  Ottoman  rule  was  the  governor  of 
Egypt  able  to  perform  his  tasks  without  the  interference  of  the  Mam- 
luk beys  (bey  was  the  highest  rank  among  the  Mamluks).  During 
the  latter  decades  of  the  sixteenth  century  and  the  early  seventeenth 
century,  a  series  of  revolts  by  various  elements  of  the  garrison  troops 
occurred.  During  these  years,  there  was  also  a  revival  within  the 
Mamluk  military  structure.  By  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, political  supremacy  had  passed  to  the  beys.  As  the  historian 
Daniel  Crecelius  has  written,  from  that  point  on  the  history  of  Ot- 
toman Egypt  can  be  explained  as  the  struggle  between  the  Otto- 
mans and  the  Mamluks  for  control  of  the  administration  and,  hence, 
the  revenues  of  Egypt,  and  the  competition  among  rival  Mamluk 
houses  for  control  of  the  beylicate.  This  struggle  affected  Egyp- 
tian history  until  the  late  eighteenth  century  when  one  Mamluk 
bey  gained  an  unprecedented  control  over  the  military  and  political 
structures  and  ousted  the  Ottoman  governor. 

Modern  Egypt 

The  Neo-Mamluk  Beylicate,  1760-98 

Most  scholars  of  Egyptian  history  now  agree  that  the  political 
and  economic  changes  that  occurred  in  the  early  nineteenth  cen- 
tury had  their  origins  not  in  the  French  invasion  of  1 798  but  rather 
in  events  that  occurred  in  Egypt  itself  in  the  latter  half  of  the  eigh- 
teenth century.  At  that  time,  political  and  military  power  was  con- 
solidated in  the  hands  of  the  Mamluk  Ali  Bey  al  Kabir  (1760-66) 


25 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


and  his  successor,  Muhammad  Bey  Abu  adh  Dhahab  (1772-75). 
Before  1760  a  balance  of  power  and  separate  spheres  of  influence 
were  maintained  by  the  Mamluk  beylicate,  which  controlled  the  civil 
administration  and  derived  its  revenues  from  the  rural  tax  farms, 
and  by  the  Mamluks,  who  dominated  the  military  and  derived 
their  revenues  from  the  urban  tax  farms  and  the  customs  house. 

In  1760  Ali  Bey  gained  control  of  the  military  and  drove  the  sul- 
tan's governor  from  the  country.  He  issued  firmans  (decrees)  in  his 
own  name,  redirected  the  state  revenues  to  his  own  use,  and  at- 
tempted to  recreate  the  medieval  Mamluk  empire  by  invading  Syr- 
ia. In  addition,  Ali  Bey  tried  to  strengthen  commercial  ties  with 
Europe  by  encouraging  trade  and  attempting  to  open  the  port  of 
Suez  to  European  shipping. 

Ali  Bey  ruled  only  briefly,  but  his  successors,  especially  Muham- 
mad Bey,  continued  his  policies.  These  two  beys  effectively  elimi- 
nated Ottoman  control  and  repositioned  Egypt  at  the  center  of  a 
newly  emerging  network  of  international  relationships  that  em- 
braced the  lands  of  the  eastern  Mediterranean,  the  Red  Sea  coasts, 
and  Europe.  Thus,  Napoleon  Bonaparte  did  not  "open"  an  iso- 
lated Egypt  to  the  West,  nor  was  Muhammad  Ali  Pasha  in  the 
nineteenth  century  the  originator  of  the  policies  responsible  for 
Egypt's  transformation.  Only  Ali  Bey's  dramatic  expulsion  from 
the  country  and  Muhammad  Bey's  premature  death  of  a  fever 
prevented  them  from  using  the  authority  they  acquired  to  carry 
on  those  policies  that  are  associated  with  Egypt's  revival  in  the 
nineteenth  century. 

The  French  Invasion  and  Occupation,  1798-1801 

After  the  death  of  Muhammad  Bey,  there  was  a  decade-long 
struggle  for  dominance  among  the  beys.  Eventually  Ibrahim  Bey 
and  Murad  Bey  succeeded  in  asserting  their  authority  and  shared 
power  in  Egypt.  Their  dominance  in  the  country  survived  an  un- 
successful attempt  by  the  Ottomans  to  reestablish  the  empire's  con- 
trol (1786-91).  The  two  continued  in  power  until  the  French 
invasion  in  1798. 

In  addition  to  the  upheavals  caused  by  the  Ottoman-Mamluk 
clashes,  waves  of  famine  and  plague  hit  Egypt  between  1784  and 
1792.  Thus,  Cairo  was  a  devastated  city  and  Egypt  an  impoverished 
country  when  the  French  arrived  in  1798. 

On  July  1,  1798,  a  French  invasion  force  under  the  command 
of  Napoleon  disembarked  near  Alexandria.  The  invasion  force, 
which  had  sailed  from  Toulon  on  May  19,  was  accompanied  by 
a  commission  of  scholars  and  scientists  whose  function  was  to  in- 
vestigate every  aspect  of  life  in  ancient  and  contemporary  Egypt. 


26 


Historical  Setting 


France  wanted  control  of  Egypt  for  two  major  reasons — its  com- 
mercial and  agricultural  potential  and  its  strategic  importance  to 
the  Anglo-French  rivalry.  During  the  eighteenth  century,  the  prin- 
cipal share  of  European  trade  with  Egypt  was  handled  by  French 
merchants.  The  French  also  looked  to  Egypt  as  a  source  of  grain 
and  raw  materials.  In  strategic  terms,  French  control  of  Egypt  could 
be  used  to  threaten  British  commercial  interests  in  the  region  and 
to  block  Britain's  overland  route  to  India. 

The  French  forces  took  Alexandria  without  difficulty,  defeated 
the  Mamluk  army  at  Shubra  Khit  and  Imbabah,  and  entered  Cairo 
on  July  25.  Murad  Bey  fled  to  Upper  Egypt  while  Ibrahim  Bey 
and  the  Ottoman  viceroy  went  to  Syria.  Mamluk  rule  in  Egypt 
collapsed. 

Nevertheless,  Napoleon's  position  in  Egypt  was  precarious.  The 
French  controlled  only  the  Delta  and  Cairo;  Upper  Egypt  was  the 
preserve  of  the  Mamluks  and  the  beduins.  In  addition,  Britain  and 
the  Ottoman  government  joined  forces  in  an  attempt  to  defeat 
Napoleon  and  drive  him  out  of  Egypt.  On  August  1,  1798,  the 
British  fleet  under  Lord  Nelson  annihilated  the  French  ships  as  they 
lay  at  anchor  at  Abu  Qir,  thus  isolating  Napoleon's  forces  in  Egypt. 
On  September  11,  Sultan  Selim  III  declared  war  on  France. 

On  October  21,  the  people  of  Cairo  rioted  against  the  French, 
whom  they  regarded  as  occupying  strangers,  not  as  liberators.  The 
rebellion  had  a  religious  as  well  as  a  national  character  and  cen- 
tered around  Al  Azhar  mosque.  Its  leaders  were  the  ulama,  reli- 
giously trained  scholars,  whom  Napoleon  had  tried  to  woo  to  the 
French  side.  During  this  period,  the  populace  began  to  regard  the 
ulama  not  only  as  moral  but  also  as  political  leaders. 

To  forestall  an  Ottoman  invasion,  Napoleon  invaded  Syria,  but, 
unable  to  take  Acre  in  Palestine,  his  forces  retreated  on  May  20, 
1799.  On  August  22,  Napoleon,  with  a  very  small  company,  secredy 
left  Egypt  for  France,  leaving  his  troops  behind  and  General  Jean- 
Baptiste  Kleber  as  his  successor.  Kleber  found  himself  the  unwilling 
commander  in  chief  of  a  dispirited  army  with  a  bankrupt  treasury. 
His  main  preoccupation  was  to  secure  the  evacuation  of  his  troops 
to  France.  When  Britain  rejected  the  evacuation  plan,  Kleber  was 
forced  to  fight. 

After  Kleber' s  assassination  by  a  Syrian,  his  command  was  taken 
over  by  General  Abdullah  Jacques  Menou,  a  French  convert  to 
Islam.  The  occupation  was  finally  terminated  by  an  Anglo-Ottoman 
invasion  force.  The  French  forces  in  Cairo  surrendered  on  June 
18,  1801,  and  Menou  himself  surrendered  at  Alexandria  on  Sep- 
tember 3.  By  the  end  of  September,  the  last  French  forces  had  left 
the  country. 


27 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


As  historian  Afaf  Lutfi  al-Sayyid  Marsot  has  written,  the  three- 
year  French  occupation  was  too  short  to  exert  any  lasting  effects 
on  Egypt,  despite  claims  to  the  contrary.  Its  most  important  effect 
on  Egypt  internally  was  the  rapid  decline  in  the  power  of  the 
Mamluks. 

The  major  impact  of  the  French  invasion  was  the  effect  it  had 
on  Europe.  Napoleon's  invasion  revealed  the  Middle  East  as  an 
area  of  immense  strategic  importance  to  the  European  powers,  thus 
inaugurating  the  Anglo-French  rivalry  for  influence  in  the  region 
and  bringing  the  British  into  the  Mediterranean.  The  French  in- 
vasion of  Egypt  also  had  an  important  effect  on  France  because 
of  the  publication  of  Description  de  UEgypte,  which  detailed  the  find- 
ings of  the  scholars  and  scientists  who  had  accompanied  Napoleon 
to  Egypt.  This  publication  became  the  foundation  of  modern 
research  into  the  history,  society,  and  economics  of  Egypt. 

Muhammad  Ali,  1805-48 

After  the  French  left  Egypt,  an  Ottoman  army  remained  in  the 
country.  The  Ottoman  government  was  determined  to  prevent  a 
revival  of  Mamluk  power  and  autonomy  and  to  bring  Egypt  un- 
der the  control  of  the  central  government.  The  Ottomans  appointed 
Khusraw  Pasha  as  viceroy.  Hostilities  occasionally  broke  out  be- 
tween his  forces  and  those  of  the  Mamluks  who  had  established 
themselves  in  Upper  Egypt. 

By  1803  it  was  apparent  that  a  third  party  had  emerged  in  the 
struggle  for  power  in  Egypt.  This  was  the  Albanian  contingent  of 
Ottoman  forces  that  had  come  in  1801  to  fight  against  the  French. 
Muhammad  Ali,  who  had  arrived  in  Egypt  as  a  junior  commander 
in  the  Albanian  forces,  had  by  1803  risen  to  commander.  In  just 
two  short  years,  he  would  become  the  Ottoman  viceroy  in  Egypt. 

Muhammad  Ali,  who  has  been  called  the  "father  of  modern 
Egypt,"  was  able  to  attain  control  of  Egypt  because  of  his  own 
leadership  abilities  and  political  shrewdness  but  also  because  the 
country  seemed  to  be  slipping  into  anarchy.  The  urban  notables 
and  the  ulama  believed  that  Muhammad  Ali  was  the  only  leader 
capable  of  bringing  order  and  security  to  the  country.  The  Otto- 
man government,  however,  aware  of  the  threat  Muhammad  Ali 
represented  to  the  central  authority,  attempted  to  get  rid  of  him 
by  making  him  governor  of  the  Hijaz.  Eventually,  the  Ottomans 
capitulated  to  Egyptian  pressure,  and  in  June  1805,  they  appoint- 
ed Muhammad  Ali  governor  of  Egypt. 

Between  1805  and  1811,  Muhammad  Ali  consolidated  his  posi- 
tion in  Egypt  by  defeating  the  Mamluks  and  bringing  Upper  Egypt 
under  his  control.  Finally,  in  March  1811,  Muhammad  Ali  had 


28 


Temple  of  Queen  Hatshepsut  at  Dayr  al  Bahri,  ca.  1500  B.  C. 

Courtesy  Martha  Hopkins 

sixty-four  Mamluks,  including  twenty-four  beys,  assassinated  in 
the  citadel.  From  then  on,  Muhammad  Ali  was  the  sole  ruler  of 
Egypt.  Muhammad  Ali  represented  the  successful  continuation  of 
policies  begun  by  the  Mamluk  Ali  Bey  al  Kabir.  Like  Ali  Bey,  Mu- 
hammad Ali  had  great  ambitions.  He,  too,  wanted  to  detach  Egypt 
from  the  Ottoman  Empire,  and  he  realized  that  to  do  so  Egypt 
had  to  be  strong  economically  and  militarily. 

Muhammad  Ali's  development  strategy  was  based  on  agricul- 
ture. He  expanded  the  area  under  cultivation  and  planted  crops 
specifically  for  export,  such  as  long- staple  cotton,  rice,  indigo,  and 
sugarcane.  The  surplus  income  from  agricultural  production  was 
used  for  public  works,  such  as  irrigation,  canals,  dams,  and  bar- 
rages, and  to  finance  industrial  development  and  the  military.  The 
development  plans  hinged  on  the  state's  gaining  a  monopoly  over 
the  country's  agricultural  resources.  In  practical,  terms,  this  meant 
the  peasants  were  told  what  crops  to  plant,  in  what  quantity,  and 
over  what  area.  The  government  bought  directly  from  the  peasants 
and  sold  directly  to  the  buyer,  cutting  out  the  intermediaries  or 
merchants. 

Muhammad  Ali  was  also  committed  to  the  industrial  develop- 
ment of  Egypt.  The  government  set  up  modern  factories  for  weaving 
cotton,  jute,  silk,  and  wool.  Workers  were  drafted  into  factories 


29 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

to  weave  on  government  looms.  Factories  for  sugar,  indigo,  glass, 
and  tanning  were  set  up  with  the  assistance  of  foreign  advisers  and 
imported  machinery.  Industries  employed  about  4  percent  of  the 
population,  or  between  180,000  and  200,000  persons  fifteen  years 
of  age  and  over.  The  textile  industry  was  protected  by  embargoes 
imposed  by  the  government  to  prohibit  the  import  of  the  cheap 
British  textiles  that  had  flooded  the  Egyptian  market.  Commer- 
cial activities  were  geared  toward  the  establishment  of  foreign  trade 
monopolies  and  an  attempt  to  acquire  a  favorable  balance  of  trade. 

The  historian  Marsot  has  argued  that  Britain  became  determined 
to  check  Muhammad  Ali  because  a  strong  Egypt  represented  a 
threat  to  Britain's  economic  and  strategic  interests.  Economical- 
ly, British  interests  would  be  served  as  long  as  Egypt  continued 
to  produce  raw  cotton  for  the  textile  mills  of  Lancashire  and  to  im- 
port finished  goods  from  Britain.  Thus,  the  British  and  also  the 
French  were  particularly  angered  by  the  Egyptian  monopolies  even 
though  Britain  and  France  engaged  in  such  trade  practices  as  high 
tariffs  and  embargoes  to  protect  their  own  economies.  Strategical- 
ly, Britain  wanted  to  maintain  access  to  the  overland  route  through 
Egypt  to  India,  a  vital  link  in  the  line  of  imperial  communications. 
Britain  was  worried  not  only  about  the  establishment  of  a  united, 
militarily  strong  state  straddling  the  eastern  Mediterranean  but  also 
about  Muhammad  Ali's  close  ties  to  France. 

It  was  at  this  time  that  Lord  Palmerston,  the  British  minister 
of  foreign  affairs,  established  the  British  policy,  which  lasted  until 
the  outbreak  of  World  War  I,  of  preserving  the  integrity  of  the 
Ottoman  Empire.  Britain  preferred  a  weakened  but  intact  Otto- 
man Empire  that  would  grant  it  the  strategic  and  commercial  ad- 
vantages it  needed  to  maintain  its  influence  in  the  region.  Thus, 
Muhammad  Ali's  invasion  of  Syria  in  1831  and  his  attempt  to  break 
away  from  the  Ottoman  Empire  jeopardized  British  policy  and  its 
military  and  commercial  interests  in  the  Middle  East  and  India. 
The  Egyptian  invasion  of  Syria  was  provoked  ostensibly  by  the  sul- 
tan's  refusal  to  give  Syria  and  Morea  (Peloponnesus)  to  Muham- 
mad Ali  in  return  for  his  assistance  in  opposing  the  Greek  war  for 
independence  in  the  late  1820s.  This  resulted  in  Turkey  and  Egypt 
being  forced  out  of  the  eastern  Mediterranean  by  the  destruction 
of  their  combined  naval  strength  at  Navarino  on  the  southern  coast 
of  Greece. 

When  Egyptian  forces  invaded  and  occupied  Syria  and  came 
within  sight  of  Istanbul,  the  great  powers  (Britain,  France,  Aus- 
tria, Russia,  and  Prussia)  allied  themselves  with  the  Ottoman 
government  to  drive  the  Egyptian  forces  out  of  Syria.  A  British  fleet 
bombarded  Beirut  in  September  1840,  and  an  Anglo-Turkish  force 


30 


Historical  Setting 


landed,  causing  uprisings  against  the  Egyptian  forces.  Acre  fell  in 
November,  and  a  British  naval  force  anchored  off  Alexandria.  The 
Egyptian  army  was  forced  to  retreat  to  Egypt,  and  Muhammad 
Ali  was  obliged  to  accede  to  British  demands.  According  to  the 
Treaty  of  1841 ,  Muhammad  Ali  was  stripped  of  all  the  conquered 
territory  except  Sudan  but  was  granted  the  hereditary  governor- 
ship of  Egypt  for  life,  with  succession  going  to  the  eldest  male  in 
the  family.  Muhammad  Ali  was  also  compelled  to  agree  to  the 
Anglo-Ottoman  Convention  of  1838,  which  established  "free  trade" 
in  Egypt.  This  meant  that  Muhammad  Ali  was  forced  to  abandon 
his  monopolies  and  establish  new  tariffs  that  were  favorable  to  im- 
ports. Thus,  Egypt  was  unable  to  control  the  flood  of  cheap  manu- 
factured imports  that  decimated  local  industries. 

Muhammad  Ali  continued  to  rule  Egypt  after  his  defeat  in  Syria. 
He  became  increasingly  senile  toward  the  end  of  his  rule  and  his 
eldest  son,  Ibrahim,  petitioned  the  Ottoman  government  to  be  ap- 
pointed governor  because  of  his  father's  inability  to  rule.  Ibrahim 
was  gravely  ill  of  tuberculosis,  however,  and  ruled  for  only  six 
months,  from  July  to  November  1848.  Muhammad  Ali  died  in  Au- 
gust 1849. 

Abbas  Hilmi  E,  1848-54  and  Said,  1854-63 

Ibrahim  was  succeeded  by  Abbas  Hilmi  I,  a  genuine  tradition- 
alist with  no  interest  in  continuing  the  development  plans  of  his 
grandfather,  Muhammad  Ali.  Abbas  disliked  Europeans,  but  he 
allowed  a  railroad  line  to  be  built  between  Alexandria  and  Cairo 
that  facilitated  British  imperial  communications  with  India.  Regular 
steamship  services  already  linked  Britain  to  India  via  Alexandria, 
Suez,  and  Bombay.  This  partially  overland  route  to  India  took 
thirty-one  days,  compared  to  three  months  for  the  journey  around 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 

Abbas's  successor  was  Said,  the  fourth  son  of  Muhammad  Ali. 
He  revived  the  works  in  agriculture,  irrigation,  and  education  be- 
gun by  his  father.  Under  his  rule,  the  first  land  law  governing  pri- 
vate landed  property  in  Egypt  was  passed  in  1858.  Said  abolished 
the  agricultural  monopolies  of  his  father  by  granting  landowners 
the  right  to  dispose  freely  of  their  produce  as  well  as  the  freedom 
to  choose  what  crops  to  cultivate.  He  also  introduced  uniform  mili- 
tary service  and  the  first  organized  pension  plan  for  public  servants. 

Said  was  a  friend  of  the  French  engineer  Ferdinand  de  Lesseps, 
to  whom  he  granted  a  concession  in  1854  to  construct  a  canal  from 
the  Red  Sea  to  the  Mediterranean.  The  Suez  Canal  Company  was 
organized  to  undertake  the  construction,  and  the  concession  to  the 
company  included  two  items  that  proved  costly  for  Egypt.  First, 


31 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

the  company  was  granted  a  strip  of  land  linking  the  Nile  with  the 
canal  site.  There  a  freshwater  canal  was  constructed,  and  the  strip 
of  land  was  decreed  tax  free,  allowing  the  company  to  enjoy  the 
benefits  of  its  cultivation.  Second,  the  viceroy  undertook  to  sup- 
ply labor  for  the  canal's  construction,  in  what  amounted  to  a  sys- 
tem of  forced  labor  (see  Suez  Canal,  ch.  3). 

Social  Change  in  the  Nineteenth  Century 

During  the  nineteenth  century,  the  socioeconomic  and  political 
foundations  of  the  modern  Egyptian  state  were  laid.  The  transfor- 
mation of  Egypt  began  with  the  integration  of  the  economy  into 
the  world  capitalist  system  with  the  result  that  by  the  end  of  the 
century  Egypt  had  become  an  exporter  of  raw  materials  to  Europe 
and  an  importer  of  European  manufactured  goods.  The  transfor- 
mation of  Egypt  led  to  the  emergence  of  a  ruling  elite  composed 
of  large  landowners  of  Turco-Circassian  origin  and  the  creation 
of  a  class  of  medium-sized  landowners  of  Egyptian  origin  who 
played  an  increasingly  important  role  in  the  political  and  econom- 
ic life  of  the  country.  In  the  countryside,  peasants  were  dispossessed 
because  of  debt,  and  many  landless  peasants  migrated  to  the  cities 
where  they  joined  the  swelling  ranks  of  the  under-  and  unemployed. 
In  the  cities,  a  professional  middle  class  emerged  composed  of  civil 
servants,  lawyers,  teachers,  and  technicians.  Finally,  Western  ideas 
and  cultural  forms  were  introduced  into  the  country. 

Rural  Society 

Muhammad  Ali  had  attempted  to  take  Egypt  directly  from  a 
subsistence  agricultural  economy  to  a  complex  industrial  one.  He 
failed  because  of  internal  weaknesses  and  European  pressures.  Iron- 
ically, Muhammad  Ali,  whose  goal  was  to  make  Egypt  economi- 
cally and  politically  independent  of  Europe,  set  the  country  on  the 
path  to  economic  dependence  and  foreign  domination. 

In  the  industrial  sector,  Muhammad  Ali's  factories  did  not  last 
past  his  death.  In  the  agricultural  sector,  Egypt's  long-staple  cot- 
ton became  increasingly  attractive  to  British  textile  manufacturers. 
Between  1840  and  1860,  the  export  of  cotton  increased  300  per- 
cent. During  the  American  Civil  War,  the  area  devoted  to  cotton 
cultivation  in  Egypt  increased  almost  fourfold  and  cotton  prices 
rose  along  with  cotton  production. 

The  transformation  of  the  rural  economy  from  subsistence  to 
cash-crop  agriculture  caused  dramatic  changes,  including  the 
privatization  of  land  in  fewer  hands  and  the  dispossession  of 
peasants.  The  privatization  of  land  began  during  the  reign  of  Mu- 
hammad Ali,  who  in  the  1840s  distributed  half  the  agricultural  land 


32 


Historical  Setting 


to  royal  family  members,  Turco-Circassian  officials,  and  Egyp- 
tian notables  or  village  headmen.  Although  many  land  grants  were 
rescinded  during  the  reign  of  Abbas,  consolidation  of  landhold- 
ings  proceeded  during  the  reigns  of  Said  and  Ismail  at  the  expense 
of  small  and  middle-sized  peasant  proprietors.  By  the  1870s,  the 
royal  family  owned  one- fifth  of  all  the  cultivated  land  in  the  coun- 
try. The  largest  royal  estates  could  be  as  large  as  10,000  feddans 
(a feddan  is  slightly  more  than  an  acre — see  Glossary).  By  the  1890s, 
42 . 5  percent  of  all  registered  land  was  held  in  tracts  of  more  than 
fifty  feddans.  The  largest  landowners  included  members  of  the  roy- 
al family,  and  the  Turco-Circassian  elite  of  officers  and  officials. 
Their  estates  were  worked  by  sharecroppers  or  agricultural  laborers. 
By  the  time  of  Ismail,  these  landowners  had  developed  into  a  landed 
aristocracy.  Another  group  of  landholding  elite  originated  with 
Muhammad  Ali's  appointment  of  Egyptians  as  village  headmen 
(umada;  sing.,  umdah),  the  state's  agents  in  the  countryside.  This 
was  Muhammad  Ali's  attempt  to  reduce  the  power  of  the  Turco- 
Circassians.  With  the  privatization  of  land,  the  Egyptian  notables 
became  substantial  landowners  with  considerable  political  influence. 

Historian  Judith  Tucker  has  described  the  nineteenth  century 
as  a  time  when  the  peasants  were  transformed  from  independent 
producers  with  rights  to  use  the  land  to  landless  peasants  forced 
to  work  as  wage-laborers  or  to  migrate  to  the  cities  where  they  be- 
came part  of  the  urban  dispossessed.  The  development  of  capitalist 
agriculture  and  a  monetized  rural  economy  spelled  disaster  for  many 
peasants.  Despite  land  laws  like  those  of  Said  in  1855  and  1858, 
which  gave  peasants  legal  ownership  of  their  plots,  peasant  land 
loss  occurred  at  an  unprecedented  rate,  chiefly  because  of  indebt- 
edness. Forced  to  borrow  at  high  rates  of  interest  to  get  the  seed 
and  animals  necessary  for  sowing  and  to  pay  monthly  installments 
on  their  taxes,  the  peasants  had  to  repay  these  loans  at  harvest  time 
when  the  prices  were  lowest. 

The  American  Civil  War  put  a  premium  on  Egyptian  cotton, 
and  the  price  increased.  When  the  war  ended,  the  inflated  prices 
suddenly  dropped.  For  the  first  time  in  Egypt,  a  serious  problem 
of  peasant  indebtedness  appeared  with  its  inevitable  consequences: 
mortgages,  foreclosures,  and  usurious  loans.  The  village  headmen 
and  the  owners  of  great  estates  profited  from  the  crisis  by  purchasing 
abandoned  land.  The  headmen  also  profited  as  moneylenders. 

Peasants  also  lost  land  because  taxes  on  peasant  land  were  higher 
than  on  estate  land.  Large  landholders  sometimes  paid  as  little  as 
one-fourth  of  the  taxes  paid  by  the  peasantry.  In  addition,  peasants 
fled  the  countryside  to  escape  corvee  (forced  labor)  on  the  state's 
public  works  projects  and  military  conscription. 


33 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


At  the  turn  of  the  century,  the  population  of  Egypt  was  about 
10  million.  Of  this  total,  between  10  and  20  percent  were  landless 
peasants.  In  1906  less  than  20  percent  of  the  privately  held  and 
^^(religiously  endowed)  land  was  held  by  80  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation while  1  percent  owned  more  than  40  percent.  Most  landown- 
ers owned  between  one  and  five  feddans,  with  three  feddans  being 
necessary  for  subsistence. 

Towns  and  Cities 

Of  the  10  million  people  in  Egypt  at  the  turn  of  the  century, 
approximately  2  million  lived  in  towns  and  cities,  and  of  those, 
500,000  lived  in  cities  with  a  population  of  more  than  20,000.  The 
population  of  Alexandria  grew  as  it  became  the  financial  and  com- 
mercial center  of  the  cotton  industry.  New  towns  like  Az  Zaqaziq 
and  Port  Said  (Bur  Said)  on  the  Suez  Canal  were  established. 

Most  of  the  increase  in  Egypt's  urban  population  was  the  result 
of  the  migration  of  peasants  from  the  countryside.  Although  some 
became  workers  or  petty  traders,  most  joined  the  ranks  of  the  under- 
or  unemployed.  By  the  turn  of  the  century,  a  working  class  had 
emerged.  It  was  composed  mainly  of  transport  and  building  workers 
and  of  workers  in  the  few  industries  that  had  been  established — 
sugar  refineries,  ginning  mills,  and  cigarette  factories.  However, 
a  large  proportion  of  the  new  urban  lower  class  consisted  of  a  fluc- 
tuating mass  of  people  without  any  fixed  employment. 

The  old  lower  class  of  the  cities  and  towns,  particularly  the  arti- 
sans, suffered  from  the  influx  of  cheaply  made  European  imports. 
Whereas  some  crafts,  like  basketry,  pottery,  and  rug  weaving,  sur- 
vived, others  such  as  textiles  and  glass  blowing  were  virtually  elim- 
inated. The  urban  guilds  declined  and  eventually  disappeared 
because  Europeans  replaced  Egyptians  in  production  and  commerce. 

The  old,  or  traditional,  middle  class  also  declined  in  status  and 
wealth.  This  middle  class  included  the  ulama,  religiously  educat- 
ed elite  who  staffed  the  religious  institutions  and  courts,  and  the 
merchants.  The  ulama  and  the  merchants  were  closely  tied  to  each 
other  because  of  family  and  business  connections.  Furthermore, 
these  categories  overlapped;  the  ulama  were  also  merchants  and 
tax-farmers.  The  decline  of  the  ulama  began  during  the  reign  of 
Muhammad  Ali  who  considered  the  ulama  an  intolerable  alterna- 
tive power  center.  He  abolished  tax  farms,  which  were  a  major 
source  of  ulama  wealth,  thus  weakening  their  position. 

The  decline  of  the  ulama  and  the  merchants  was  accelerated  by 
the  socioeconomic  transformation  of  Egypt  that  led  to  the  emer- 
gence of  secular  education,  to  secularly  trained  civil  servants  staffing 


34 


Historical  Setting 


the  government  bureaucracy,  and  to  the  reorientation  of  Egyptian 
trade.  Secular  education  and  the  establishment  of  schools  influenced 
by  Western  ideas  and  methods  occurred  throughout  the  century 
but  were  particularly  widespread  during  the  reign  of  Khedive  (see 
Glossary)  Ismail.  Secular  education  became  identified  with  entrance 
into  government  employment.  Moreover,  once  government  employ- 
ment was  opened  to  Egyptians,  it  became  the  goal  of  the  educated 
because  of  the  power  and  social  status  it  conferred.  Between  1882 
and  1907,  the  number  of  persons  employed  in  public  administration 
grew  by  83.7  percent.  The  rise  of  this  new  urban  middle  class,  called 
the  effendiyah,  parallelled  the  rise  of  the  rural  notables  or  umada.  In 
fact,  during  the  nineteenth  century,  the  effendiyah  tended  to  be  first- 
generation  urbanites  from  rural  notable  families  who  took  advantage 
of  expanded  education  and  employment  opportunities  in  the  cities. 

Whereas  the  Egyptian  effendiyah  and  umada  were  rising,  the  tradi- 
tional merchant  class  declined  because  the  lucrative  import-export 
trade  was  dominated  by  resident  foreigners,  and  Egyptian  merchants 
were  confined  to  internal  trade.  During  the  nineteenth  century,  for- 
eign trade  was  completely  reoriented.  In  the  past,  it  had  dealt  mainly 
in  Sudanese,  Arabian,  and  oriental  goods.  Cairo  was  one  of  the  most 
important  centers  of  trade,  and  Egyptian,  Syrian,  and  Turkish  mer- 
chants engaged  in  it.  During  the  nineteenth  century,  Greeks  and 
other  Europeans  resident  in  Egypt  monopolized  the  export  of  cot- 
ton to  Europe  and  the  import  of  European  industrial  goods. 

The  change  was  reflected  in  the  increase  of  foreigners  in  Egypt — 
from  between  8,000  and  10,000  in  1838  to  90,000  in  1881.  The 
majority  was  engaged  in  cotton  production,  import-export  trade, 
banking,  and  finance.  The  European  community  occupied  a  priv- 
ileged position  as  a  result  of  the  capitulations,  the  treaties  govern- 
ing the  status  of  foreigners  within  the  Ottoman  Empire.  These  treaties 
put  Europeans  virtually  beyond  the  reach  of  Egyptian  law  until  the 
establishment  of  the  mixed  courts  (with  jurisdiction  over  Egyptians 
and  foreigners)  in  1876.  Like  the  artisans,  Egyptian  merchants 
suffered  from  a  large  variety  of  oppressive  taxes  and  duties  from 
which  foreign  merchants  were  exempt.  With  the  support  of  their 
consuls,  foreigners  in  Egypt  became  an  increasingly  powerful  pres- 
sure group  committed  to  defending  their  own  interests. 

From  Autonomy  to  Occupation:  Ismail,  Tawfiq,  and 
the  Urabi  Revolt 
Khedive  Ismail,  1863-79 

No  ruler  of  Egypt,  except  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser,  has  provoked 
such  controversy  in  the  West  as  Ismail.  At  the  time,  the  anti-Ismail 


35 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

view  was  held  mainly  by  British  administrators  like  Evelyn  Bar- 
ing (Lord  Cromer)  and  Lord  Alfred  Milner,  who  depicted  him  as 
squeezing  the  peasants  for  money  by  oppressive  taxation  and  the 
whip,  and  ''ruining  Egypt"  by  his  lavish  spending  and  despotic 
ways.  Journalists  and  the  American  consuls  in  Egypt  such  as  Ed- 
win de  Leon  held  a  more  balanced  view,  arguing  that  Ismail  in- 
herited an  unfavorable  Suez  Canal  agreement  and  a  significant 
public  and  private  debt  from  his  uncle,  Said.  They  noted  that 
although  Ismail  spent  lavishly,  much  of  the  money  he  borrowed 
from  European  bankers  was  used  for  building  or  repairing  the  coun- 
try's  infrastructure.  They  also  pointed  out  that  European  bankers 
and  financiers  loaned  money  to  Egypt  at  usurious  interest  rates 
and,  when  it  seemed  Egypt  would  be  unable  to  repay  the  loans, 
urged  their  governments  to  intervene  to  protect  their  interests. 

Ismail's  goals  for  Egypt  were  similar  to  those  of  his  grandfather, 
Muhammad  Ali.  He  wanted  Egypt  to  become  virtually  indepen- 
dent of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  a  political  and  military  power  in  the 
eastern  Mediterranean  and  an  economic  partner  of  Europe.  Ismail 
achieved  a  considerable  degree  of  independence  from  the  Porte 
(from  Sublime  Porte,  the  term  for  the  High  Gate  that  came  to  be 
synonymous  with  the  Ottoman  government)  by  making  large  pay- 
ments to  the  Ottoman  treasury.  For  example,  in  return  for  increas- 
ing Egypt's  annual  payment  to  the  Ottoman  treasury  from  £175,000 
to  £400,000,  Sultan  Abdul  Aziz  allowed  Ismail  to  change  the  rule 
of  succession  from  the  oldest  surviving  male  heir  of  Muhammad 
Ali  to  direct  male  primogeniture  in  his  family.  The  sultan  also  grant- 
ed Ismail  the  formal  title  of  khedive,  which  elevated  his  standing 
to  a  position  closer  to  royalty. 

Ismail's  attempt  to  make  Egypt  independent  foundered  eventu- 
ally because  of  the  gap  between  the  revenues  the  country  could 
produce  and  the  expenses  necessary  to  achieve  his  goals.  He  at- 
tempted to  generate  more  income  by  increasing  agricultural  produc- 
tivity, chiefly  by  bringing  more  land  into  cultivation  through 
expensive  irrigation  projects  such  as  the  construction  of  canals 
and  dams.  During  his  reign,  an  additional  506,000  hectares  were 
brought  under  cultivation,  representing  a  sizeable  increase  in  both 
production  and  income. 

To  service  the  cotton  crop,  which  was  the  basis  of  Egypt's 
prosperity,  roads,  bridges,  railways,  harbors,  and  telegraph  lines 
had  to  be  constructed.  During  Ismail's  reign,  112  canals,  13,440 
kilometers  long,  were  dug;  400  bridges  were  built;  480  kilometers 
of  railroad  lines  were  laid;  and  8,000  kilometers  of  telegraph  lines 
were  erected.  Towns  and  cities  were  modernized  by  the  expan- 
sion of  public  services  such  as  water  distribution,  transport,  street 


36 


Historical  Setting 


lighting,  and  gas  supply.  Public  education  was  reorganized  and 
expanded,  and  a  postal  service  was  established.  The  army  and 
bureaucracy  were  expanded  and  modernized.  In  short,  Ismail  un- 
dertook the  construction  of  the  infrastructure  of  a  modern  state. 

Ismail  greatly  expanded  Egypt's  revenues  and  exports  during 
his  reign.  But  the  country's  prosperity  was  tied  to  the  export  of 
cotton,  whose  price  was  set  on  a  fluctuating  world  market,  mak- 
ing income  uncertain.  Moreover,  Ismail's  infrastructure  develop- 
ment entailed  more  expenditure  than  Egypt's  income  could  provide, 
with  the  result  that  he  was  obliged  to  contract  foreign  loans.  These 
loans,  added  to  the  expensive  concessions  that  Said  had  made  con- 
cerning the  Suez  Canal,  meant  that  by  1875  Egypt  was  £100  mil- 
lion in  debt.  In  that  year,  Ismail  sold  his  shares  in  the  Suez  Canal 
Company,  making  the  British  government  overnight  the  single  larg- 
est shareholder  in  the  company.  The  sale  of  Ismail's  shares  did  not 
solve  the  country's  financial  problems,  however,  but  merely  staved 
off  the  crisis  for  another  year. 

From  Intervention  to  Occupation,  1876-82 

Seriously  concerned  with  the  country's  financial  situation,  Is- 
mail asked  for  British  help  in  fiscal  reform.  Britain  responded  by 
sending  Steven  Cave,  a  member  of  Parliament,  to  investigate.  Cave 
judged  Egypt  to  be  solvent  on  the  basis  of  its  resources  and  said 
that  all  the  country  needed  to  get  back  on  its  feet  was  time  and 
the  proper  servicing  of  the  debts.  Cave  recommended  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  control  commission  over  Egypt's  finances  to  approve 
all  future  loans. 

European  creditors,  however,  would  not  allow  Egypt  time.  When 
Ismail  suspended  payment  of  interest  on  the  loans  in  1875,  his  cred- 
itors in  Britain  and  France  appointed  two  men  to  represent  their 
interests  and  negotiate  new  arrangements  with  the  khedive.  The 
Goschen-Joubert  Mission  achieved  three  things:  the  consolidation 
of  the  debt;  the  appointment  of  two  European  controllers,  one  Brit- 
ish and  one  French;  and  the  establishment  of  the  Caisse  de  la  Dette 
Publique,  a  special  department  with  representatives  from  the  var- 
ious European  creditor  states  to  ensure  the  service  of  the  debt. 
Revenue  from  the  most  productive  provinces  went  straight  to  the 
department,  and  by  1877  more  than  60  percent  of  all  Egyptian 
revenue  went  to  service  the  national  debt. 

Although  Egypt  serviced  the  debt  faithfully,  European  interven- 
tion increased.  At  the  insistence  of  the  French,  a  commission  of  in- 
quiry was  appointed  in  1878  to  examine  all  sources  of  revenue  and 
expenditure.  The  commission  had  the  right  to  ask  any  Egyptian 


37 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

official  or  government  deputy  to  testify  before  it  and  to  subpoena 
all  records.  Such  powers  implied  the  dilution  of  Egyptian 
sovereignty  by  Europeans. 

The  commission  report  indicted  the  khedival  government  and 
suggested  limiting  Ismail's  power  as  a  first  step  in  solving  the  coun- 
try's financial  problems.  The  khedive  accepted  the  commission's 
conditions,  including  a  cabinet  containing  Europeans  and  the  prin- 
ciple of  ministerial  responsibility.  He  appointed  Nubar  Pasha  as 
prime  minister  and  asked  him  to  form  a  government  containing 
two  Europeans.  Many  Europeans  were  appointed  at  high  salaries 
in  various  government  departments;  thirty  British  officers  were  ap- 
pointed to  the  Land  Survey  Department  alone.  Ismail  was  also 
forced  to  delegate  governmental  responsibility  to  his  cabinet,  which 
was  made  independent  of  the  khedive  and  responsible  for  the  ad- 
ministration of  the  country. 

Opposition  to  European  intervention  in  Egypt's  internal  affairs 
emerged  from  the  Assembly  of  Delegates,  which  Ismail  had  creat- 
ed in  1866,  and  from  the  Egyptian  army  officers.  The  assembly, 
composed  mainly  of  Egyptian  notables,  had  no  legislative  power. 
It  was  Ismail's  attempt  to  associate  the  Egyptian  notables  with  his 
financial  policies,  and  thus,  to  demonstrate  support  for  his  taxes 
and  foreign  loans.  The  presence  of  Egyptian  officers  in  the  army 
resulted  from  the  1854  decree  of  Said,  who  ordered  the  sons  of  vil- 
lage notables  to  join  the  army.  Said  allowed  them  to  be  trained 
as  officers  and  to  rise  to  the  rank  of  colonel,  but  the  top  posts  in 
the  army  continued  to  be  held  by  members  of  the  Turco-Circassian 
elite. 

The  Assembly  of  Delegates,  meeting  between  January  and  July 
1879,  demanded  more  control  over  financial  matters  and  account- 
ability of  the  European  ministers  to  the  assembly.  At  the  same  time, 
a  group  of  Egyptian  army  officers  who  opposed  the  mixed  cabinet 
protested  the  placing  of  2,500  officers  on  half-pay.  A  group  of  army 
officers  marched  on  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  occupied  the  build- 
ing. Only  the  personal  intervention  of  the  khedive,  who  was  sus- 
pected of  instigating  the  incident,  saved  the  situation.  At  this  point, 
Ismail  realized  that  he  could  use  both  the  assembly  and  the  army 
officers  to  rid  himself  of  foreign  control. 

In  April  1879,  Ismail's  opportunity  came.  Under  foreign  pres- 
sure, Ismail  ordered  the  assembly  to  dissolve.  Its  members  refused, 
saying  they  represented  the  nation  and  would  not  relinquish  their 
mandate  at  the  order  of  the  khedive,  influenced  and  pressured  as 
he  was  by  foreign  powers.  On  March  29,  they  presented  a  manifesto 
to  the  khedive  protesting  the  Council  of  Ministers'  attempts  to  usurp 
their  power  and  authority.  They  also  stated  their  determination 


38 


Historical  Setting 


to  reject  the  European  ministers'  demand  that  Egypt  declare  itself 
bankrupt. 

The  leader  of  the  delegates  was  the  constitutionally  minded  Mu- 
hammad Sharif  Pasha,  who  was  among  the  members  of  a  secret 
society  called  the  National  Society  (later  the  Hulwan  Society).  The 
society  had  drawn  up  a  plan  for  national  reform  (Laiha  Wataniyah) 
that  proposed  constitutional  and  financial  reforms  to  increase  the 
power  of  the  assembly  and  resolve  Egypt's  financial  problems 
without  foreign  advisers  or  control. 

In  a  shrewd  political  move,  Ismail  summoned  the  European  con- 
suls and  confronted  them  with  the  discontent  of  the  delegates,  the 
disaffection  in  the  army,  and  the  general  public  uneasiness.  He 
informed  them  that  he  had  decided  to  act  in  accordance  with  the 
resolutions  of  the  assembly.  Therefore,  he  rejected  the  proposal 
to  declare  Egypt  bankrupt  and  stated  his  intent  to  meet  all  obliga- 
tions to  Egypt's  creditors.  He  also  invited  Sharif  Pasha  to  form 
a  government.  Sharif  Pasha  and  his  Egyptian  cabinet  dismissed 
the  European  ministers. 

Although  these  actions  made  Ismail  popular  at  home,  they  threat- 
ened continued  European  control  over  Egypt's  finances.  The  Eu- 
ropean powers,  particularly  Britain  and  France,  decided  Ismail  had 
to  go.  Since  he  refused  to  abdicate,  the  European  powers  put  pres- 
sure on  the  Ottoman  sultan  to  dismiss  him  in  favor  of  his  son  Taw- 
fiq.  On  June  26,  1879,  he  received  a  telegram  from  the  grand  vizier 
addressed  to  "the  ex-khedive  Ismail."  Ismail  left  Egypt  for  exile 
in  Naples  and  subsequently  in  Istanbul,  where  he  died  in  1895. 

Tawfiq  proved  to  be  a  more  pliable  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
the  European  powers.  The  dual  control  of  Egypt's  finances  was 
reinstituted.  An  international  commission  of  liquidation  was  ap- 
pointed with  British,  French,  Austrian,  and  Italian  members.  In 
July  1880,  the  Law  of  Liquidation  was  promulgated,  limiting  Egypt 
to  50  percent  of  its  total  revenues.  The  rest  went  to  the  Caisse  de 
la  Dette  Publique  to  service  the  debt.  The  Assembly  of  Delegates 
remained  dissolved. 

The  direct  interference  of  Europeans  in  Egypt's  affairs  and  the 
deposition  of  Khedive  Ismail  forged  a  nationalist  movement  com- 
posed of  Egyptian  landowners  and  merchants,  especially  former 
members  of  the  assembly,  Egyptian  army  officers,  and  the  intel- 
ligentsia, including  the  ulama  and  Muslim  reformers.  A  secret  so- 
ciety of  Egyptian  army  officers  had  also  come  into  existence  in  1876, 
comparable  to  the  secret  society  of  Egyptian  notables.  The  army 
society  included  Colonel  Ahmad  Urabi,  who  would  become  the  lead- 
er of  the  nationalist  movement,  and  colonels  Ali  Fahmi  and  Abd 
al  Al  Hilmi.  In  1881  a  link,  if  not  a  merger,  was  formed  between 


39 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


the  Urabists  and  the  National  Society.  This  expanded  group  took 
the  name  Al  Hizb  al  Watani  al  Ahli,  the  National  Popular  Party. 

Beginning  in  1881,  the  army  officers  demonstrated  their  strength 
and  their  ability  to  intimidate  the  khedive.  They  began  with  a  mu- 
tiny provoked  by  the  anti-Urabist  minister  of  war.  Not  only  were 
they  able  to  force  the  appointment  of  a  more  sympathetic  minister 
but  by  January  1882,  Urabi  joined  the  government  as  undersecre- 
tary for  war. 

These  developments  alarmed  the  European  powers,  particular- 
ly Britain  and  France.  Britain  was  especially  concerned  about  pro- 
tecting the  Suez  Canal  and  the  British  lifeline  to  India.  In  January 
1882,  Britain  and  France  sent  a  joint  note  declaring  their  support 
for  the  khedive.  The  note  had  the  opposite  effect  from  that  intend- 
ed, producing  an  upsurge  in  anti-European  feeling,  a  shift  in  leader- 
ship of  the  nationalist  movement  from  the  moderates  in  the  assembly 
to  the  military,  and  the  formation  of  a  new  government  with  Ura- 
bi as  minister  of  war.  At  this  point,  the  goal  of  Urabi  and  his  fol- 
lowers became  not  only  the  removal  of  all  European  influence  from 
Egypt  but  also  the  overthrow  of  the  khedive. 

In  another  attempt  to  break  Urabi' s  power,  the  British  and 
French  agreed  on  a  joint  show  of  naval  strength.  They  also  issued 
a  series  of  demands  including  the  resignation  of  the  government, 
the  temporary  exile  of  Urabi,  and  the  internal  exile  of  his  two  closest 
associates,  Ali  Fahmi  and  Abd  al  Al  Hilmi.  As  a  result,  violent 
anti-European  riots  broke  out  in  Alexandria  with  considerable  loss 
of  life  on  both  sides. 

During  the  summer,  an  international  conference  of  the  Euro- 
pean powers  met  in  Istanbul,  but  no  agreement  was  reached.  The 
Ottoman  sultan  Abdul  Hamid  boycotted  the  conference  and  re- 
fused to  send  troops  to  Egypt.  Eventually,  Britain  decided  to  act 
alone.  The  French  withdrew  their  naval  squadron  from  Alexan- 
dria, and  in  July  1882,  the  British  fleet  began  bombarding  Alex- 
andria. 

Following  the  burning  of  Alexandria  and  its  occupation  by  British 
marines,  the  British  installed  the  khedive  in  the  Ras  at  Tin  Palace. 
The  khedive  obligingly  declared  Urabi  a  rebel  and  deprived  him 
of  his  political  rights.  Urabi  in  turn  obtained  a  religious  ruling, 
a  fatwa,  signed  by  three  Al  Azhar  shaykhs,  deposing  Tawfiq  as  a 
traitor  who  brought  about  the  foreign  occupation  of  his  country 
and  betrayed  his  religion.  Urabi  also  ordered  general  conscription 
and  declared  war  on  Britain.  Thus,  as  the  British  army  was  about 
to  land  in  August,  Egypt  had  two  leaders:  the  khedive,  whose 
authority  was  confined  to  British-controlled  Alexandria,  and  Ura- 
bi, who  was  in  full  control  of  Cairo  and  the  provinces. 


40 


41 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


In  August  Sir  Garnet  Wolsley  and  an  army  of  20,000  invaded 
the  Suez  Canal  Zone.  Wolsley  was  authorized  to  crush  the  Urabi 
forces  and  clear  the  country  of  rebels.  The  decisive  battle  was  fought 
at  Tall  al  Kabir  on  September  13,  1882.  The  Urabi  forces  were 
routed  and  the  capital  captured.  The  nominal  authority  of  the  khe- 
dive  was  restored,  and  the  British  occupation  of  Egypt,  which  was 
to  last  for  seventy-two  years,  had  begun. 

Urabi  was  captured,  and  he  and  his  associates  were  put  on  tri- 
al. An  Egyptian  court  sentenced  Urabi  to  death,  but  through  British 
intervention  the  sentence  was  commuted  to  banishment  to  Cey- 
lon. Britain's  military  intervention  in  1882  and  its  extended,  if  at- 
tenuated, occupation  of  the  country  left  a  legacy  of  bitterness  among 
the  Egyptians  that  would  not  be  expunged  until  1956  when  Brit- 
ish troops  were  finally  removed  from  the  country. 

From  Occupation  to  Nominal  Independence,  1882-1923 
The  Occupiers 

With  the  occupation  of  1882,  Egypt  became  a  part  of  the  Brit- 
ish Empire  but  never  officially  a  colony.  The  khedival  government 
provided  the  facade  of  autonomy,  but  behind  it  lay  the  real  power 
in  the  country,  specifically,  the  British  agent  and  consul  general, 
backed  by  British  troops. 

At  the  outset  of  the  occupation,  the  British  government  declared 
its  intention  to  withdraw  its  troops  as  soon  as  possible.  This  could 
not  be  done,  however,  until  the  authority  of  the  khedive  was  re- 
stored. Eventually,  the  British  realized  that  these  two  aims  were 
incompatible  because  the  military  intervention,  which  Khedive 
Tawfiq  supported  and  which  prevented  his  overthrow,  had  under- 
mined the  authority  of  the  ruler.  Without  the  British  presence,  the 
khedival  government  would  probably  have  collapsed. 

In  addition,  the  British  government  realized  that  the  most  ef- 
fective way  to  protect  its  interests  was  from  its  position  in  Egypt. 
This  represented  a  change  in  the  policy  that  had  existed  since  the 
time  of  Muhammad  Ali,  when  the  British  were  committed  to 
preserving  the  Ottoman  Empire.  The  change  in  British  policy  oc- 
curred for  several  reasons.  Sultan  Abdul  Hamid  had  refused  Brit- 
ain's request  to  intervene  in  Egypt  against  Urabi  and  to  preserve 
the  khedival  government.  Also,  Britain's  influence  in  Istanbul  was 
declining  while  that  of  Germany  was  rising.  Finally,  Britain's 
unilateral  invasion  of  Egypt  gave  Britain  the  opportunity  to  sup- 
plant French  influence  in  the  country.  Moreover,  Britain  was  de- 
termined to  preserve  its  control  over  the  Suez  Canal  and  to 
safeguard  the  vital  route  to  India. 


42 


Historical  Setting 


Between  1883  and  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I  in  1914,  there 
were  three  British  agents  and  consuls  general  in  Egypt:  Lord 
Cromer  (1883-1907),  Sir  John  Eldon  Gorst  (1907-11),  and  Lord 
Herbert  Kitchener  (1911-14).  Cromer  was  an  autocrat  whose  con- 
trol over  Egypt  was  more  absolute  than  that  of  any  Mamluk  or 
khedive.  Cromer  believed  his  first  task  was  to  achieve  financial  sol- 
vency for  Egypt.  He  serviced  the  debt,  balanced  the  budget,  and 
spent  what  money  remained  after  debt  payments  on  agriculture, 
irrigation,  and  railroads.  He  neglected  industry  and  education,  a 
policy  that  became  a  political  issue  in  the  country.  He  brought  in 
British  officials  to  staff  the  bureaucracy.  This  policy,  too,  was  con- 
troversial because  it  prevented  Egyptian  civil  servants  from  rising 
to  the  top  of  their  fields. 

Gorst,  who  was  less  autocratic  than  Cromer,  had  to  face  a  grow- 
ing Egyptian  nationalism  that  demanded  British  evacuation  from 
the  country.  Gorst 's  attempt  to  create  a  "moderate"  nationalism 
ultimately  failed  because  the  nationalists  refused  to  make  any  com- 
promises over  independence  and  because  Britain  considered  any 
concession  to  the  nationalists  a  sign  of  weakness. 

When  Kitchener  arrived  in  Egypt  in  1911,  he  was  already  fa- 
mous as  the  man  who  had  avenged  the  death  of  General  Charles 
Gordon  in  Khartoum  in  1885  during  the  Mahdist  uprising.  In  1913 
Kitchener  introduced  a  new  constitution  that  gave  the  country  some 
representative  institutions  locally  and  nationally.  When  the  Brit- 
ish occupation  began,  the  Assembly  of  Delegates  had  ceased  to  exist. 
It  was  superseded  by  an  assembly  and  legislative  council  that  were 
consultative  bodies  whose  advice  was  not  binding  on  the  govern- 
ment. The  Organic  Law  of  1913  provided  for  a  legislative  assem- 
bly with  an  increased  number  of  elected  members  and  expanded 
powers. 

On  October  29,  1914,  the  Ottoman  Empire  entered  World  War 
I  on  the  side  of  the  Central  Powers.  Martial  law  was  declared  in 
Egypt  on  November  2 .  On  November  3 ,  the  British  government 
unilaterally  declared  Egypt  a  protectorate,  severing  the  country  from 
the  Ottoman  Empire.  Britain  deposed  Khedive  Abbas,  who  had 
succeeded  Khedive  Tawfiq  upon  the  latter's  death  in  1892,  because 
Abbas,  who  was  in  Istanbul  when  the  war  broke  out,  was  suspect- 
ed of  pro-German  sympathies.  Kitchener  was  recalled  to  London 
to  serve  as  minister  of  war. 

Economy  and  Society  under  Occupation 

By  1914  cotton  constituted  90  percent  of  Egypt's  exports.  To 
the  British,  who  controlled  Egypt's  financial  and  economic  life,  en- 
suring Egypt's  prosperity  and  its  ability  to  service  its  debt  meant 


43 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


expanding  Egypt's  reliance  on  cotton  production.  Some  British  offi- 
cials had  more  personal  reasons  for  their  interest  in  the  produc- 
tion and  export  of  cotton.  Some  were  landowners;  some  were 
involved  in  the  marketing  of  the  crop;  and  some,  like  Lord  Cromer, 
made  huge  fortunes  from  cotton  speculation. 

Trade  policy  was  based  on  free  trade,  which  favored  the  more 
industrialized  nations  whose  products  undersold  those  produced 
locally.  Lord  Cromer  himself  described  the  effects  of  the  import 
of  European  manufactures  on  local  craft  production.  He  noted  that 
quarters  of  the  city  that  had  been  *  'hives  of  busy  workmen"  had 
shrunk  or  been  eliminated  entirely.  Cafes  and  small  stores  selling 
European  goods  replaced  productive  workshops.  Egyptian  indus- 
trialization would  have  required  protective  tariffs  that  the  British 
would  not  allow.  Thus,  although  Egypt  had  a  solid  infrastructure, 
a  sizeable  local  market,  and  an  indigenous  supply  of  capital,  in- 
dustrial development  was  stymied  by  a  British  trade  policy  that 
sought  to  protect  the  Egyptian  market  for  British  products  and  to 
maintain  Britain's  near  monopoly  on  Egyptian  cotton. 

In  spite  of  these  formidable  obstacles,  a  small  industrial  sector 
did  develop,  devoted  primarily  to  processing  raw  materials  and 
producing  perishable  or  bulky  goods.  Industrialization  gave  rise 
to  a  modern  working  class  engaged  in  factory  labor.  By  1916  there 
were  30,000  to  35,000  workers  employed  in  modern  factories. 

Pay  in  the  industrial  sector  was  low  and  working  conditions  some- 
times unsafe.  Just  as  it  maintained  a  hands-off  policy  concerning 
trade,  the  state  refused  to  intervene  to  regulate  working  conditions. 
Between  1899  and  1907,  at  least  seven  workers'  associations  were 
formed,  focusing  on  conditions  and  pay.  Strikes  were  organized 
among  cigarette  wrappers;  warehouse,  port,  and  railroad  workers; 
and  spinners  in  factories.  The  working-class  movement  received 
considerable  support  from  Mustafa  Kamil's  National  Party  (Al 
Hizb  al  Watani),  which  set  up  schools  in  working-class  areas  and 
assisted  unions  with  publicity  and  legal  counsel  during  strikes.  The 
unions,  like  the  nationalist  movement,  were  severely  repressed  by 
the  government. 

In  1906  the  Dinshawi  Incident  occurred,  which  intensified  na- 
tionalist and  anti- British  sentiments.  A  fight  broke  out  between  the 
villagers  of  Dinshawi,  near  Tanta  in  the  Delta,  and  a  group  of  Brit- 
ish officers  who  were  shooting  pigeons  nearby.  In  the  course  of 
the  shooting,  the  wife  of  the  local  imam  (religious  leader)  was  shot 
and  wounded.  Villagers  surrounded  the  officers,  and  in  the  ensu- 
ing fracas,  two  British  officers  were  wounded.  The  officers  in  turn 
panicked  and  opened  fire  on  the  villagers.  One  of  the  British  officers 
died  of  his  wounds  as  he  attempted  to  march  back  to  camp  a  few 


44 


Historical  Setting 


miles  away.  British  soldiers  who  found  the  dead  officer  beat  a 
peasant  to  death.  Fifty-two  Egyptians  were  arrested  and  brought 
before  a  special  court  convened  in  Shibin  al  Kawm.  Four  peasants 
were  sentenced  to  death,  many  to  terms  of  imprisonment  at  hard 
labor,  and  others  to  public  flogging.  The  sentences  were  executed 
swiftly,  publicly,  and  brutally.  This  event  heightened  Egyptian  po- 
litical consciousness  and  led  to  the  organization  of  political  parties. 

In  1907  two  political  parties  were  formed,  which  served  as  vehi- 
cles for  expressing  nationalist  ideas  and  actions.  They  were  Kamil's 
National  Party  (also  seen  as  the  Watani  Party)  and  the  People's 
Party  (Al  Hizb  al  Umma  or  Umma  Party).  The  Umma  Party  was 
founded  by  Mahmud  Sulayman  Pasha,  a  former  leader  of  the  as- 
sembly and  ally  of  Colonel  Urabi,  and  Hasan  Abd  ar  Raziq,  among 
others.  The  most  prominent  member  of  the  Umma  Party  was  Ah- 
mad Lutfi  as  Sayyid,  editor  of  the  party's  newspaper,  Al  Jaridah 
(The  Newspaper).  The  National  Party's  newspaper  was  Al  Liwa 
(The  Standard).  Kamil  and  Lutfi  as  Sayyid  were  Egyptian  rather 
than  Turco-Circassian  in  origin  and  represented  the  increasing  po- 
litical strength  of  Egyptians  in  national  life.  Kamil's  party  called 
for  the  British  to  evacuate  Egypt  immediately.  Although  Kamil 
agreed  that  Egypt  needed  reform,  he  argued  that  the  British  pres- 
ence was  not  necessary  to  achieve  it.  Because  Islam  played  a  larg- 
er role  in  his  thought  and  in  the  party  ideology  than  in  the  Umma 
Party,  Kamil  and  the  National  Party  attracted  to  it  anti- European 
conservatives  and  religious  traditionalists. 

The  leaders  of  the  Umma  Party  had  been  disciples  of  the  in- 
fluential Islamic  reformer  Muhammad  Abduh.  Unlike  Abduh, 
however,  who  was  concerned  with  the  reform  of  Islam  to  accom- 
modate it  to  the  modern  world,  Lutfi  as  Sayyid  was  concerned  with 
progress  and  the  reform  of  society.  The  aim  of  the  Umma  Party 
was  independence.  Lutfi  as  Sayyid  believed,  however,  that  Egypt 
would  attain  self-rule  not  by  attacking  the  British  or  the  khedive 
but  through  reform  of  Egyptian  laws  and  institutions  and  the  par- 
ticipation of  Egyptians  in  public  life. 

Lutfi  as  Sayyid  believed  Egypt  should  cooperate  in  any  mea- 
sures that  would  limit  the  autocracy  of  the  khedive  and  expand 
constitutional  government,  which  could  only  strengthen  the  na- 
tion. Implicit  in  the  Umma  program  was  the  idea  of  tactical  cooper- 
ation and  eventual  negotiation  with  the  British  on  the  future  of 
Egypt,  an  idea  that  Kamil  and  the  National  Party  rejected.  The 
National  Party  was  described  as  "extremist"  because  of  its  demand 
for  the  immediate  withdrawal  of  the  British,  while  the  Umma  Party 
was  called  "moderate"  because  of  its  gradualist  approach  to  in- 
dependence from  British  domination. 


45 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Kamil  died  in  1908;  the  party  never  recovered  from  his  death 
although  it  continued  to  play  a  role  in  national  political  life  until 
1952.  It  was  the  only  political  group  that  refused  to  take  part  in 
negotiations  for  the  Anglo-Egyptian  Treaty  of  1936.  The  Umma 
Party  participated  in  Egyptian  party  politics  until  World  War  I, 
and  its  newspaper  ceased  publication  in  1915.  The  party's  influence 
was  long-lasting,  however,  because  Saad  Zaghlul,  who  emerged 
as  leader  of  the  nationalist  movement  after  the  war,  was  part  of 
the  Umma/i/  Jaridah  circle. 

Egypt  under  the  Protectorate  and  the  1919  Revolution 

Opposition  to  European  interference  in  Egypt's  affairs  resulted 
in  the  emergence  of  a  nationalist  movement  that  coalesced  and 
spread  after  the  British  military  intervention  and  occupation  of  1882. 
The  immediate  causes  of  what  is  known  to  Egyptians  as  the  1919 
Revolution,  however,  were  British  actions  during  the  war  that 
caused  widespread  hardship  and  resentment.  Specifically,  these  in- 
cluded Britain's  purchase  of  cotton  and  requisitioning  of  fodder 
at  below  market  prices,  Britain's  forcible  recruitment  of  about 
500,000  peasants  into  the  Labor  and  Camel  Transport  Corps  in 
the  Egyptian  Expeditionary  Force,  and  its  use  of  the  country  as 
a  base  and  a  garrison  populated  by  British,  Australian,  and  other 
troops.  After  the  war,  Egypt  felt  the  adverse  effects  of  soaring  prices 
and  unemployment. 

When  the  war  ended,  the  nationalists  began  to  press  the  British 
again  for  independence.  In  addition  to  their  other  reasons,  the  Egyp- 
tians were  influenced  by  American  president  Woodrow  Wilson, 
who  was  preaching  self-determination  for  all  nations.  In  Septem- 
ber 1918,  Egypt  made  the  first  moves  toward  the  formation  of  a 
wafd,  or  delegation,  to  voice  its  demands  for  independence  at  the 
Paris  Peace  Conference.  The  idea  for  a  wafdhad  originated  among 
prominent  members  of  the  Umma  Party,  including  Lutfi  as  Say- 
yid,  Saad  Zaghlul,  Muhammad  Mahmud,  Ali  Sharawi,  and  Abd 
al  Aziz  Fahmi. 

On  November  13,  1918,  thereafter  celebrated  in  Egypt  as  Yawm 
al  Jihad  (Day  of  Struggle),  Zaghlul,  Fahmi,  and  Sharawi  had  an 
audience  with  Sir  Reginald  Wingate,  the  British  high  commissioner. 
They  demanded  complete  independence  with  the  proviso  that  Brit- 
ain be  allowed  to  supervise  the  Suez  Canal  and  the  public  debt. 
They  also  asked  permission  to  go  to  London  to  put  their  case  be- 
fore the  British  government.  On  the  same  day,  the  Egyptians 
formed  a  delegation  for  this  purpose,  Al  Wafd  al  Misri  (known 
as  the  Wafd),  headed  by  Saad  Zaghlul.  The  British  refused  to  al- 
low the  Wafd  to  proceed  to  London.  On  March  8,  Zaghlul  and 


46 


Historical  Setting 


three  other  members  of  the  Wafd  were  arrested  and  thrown  into 
Qasr  an  Nil  prison.  The  next  day,  they  were  deported  to  Malta, 
an  action  that  sparked  the  popular  uprising  of  March-April  1919 
in  which  Egyptians  of  all  social  classes  participated.  There  were 
violent  clashes  in  Cairo  and  the  provincial  cities  of  Lower  Egypt, 
especially  Tanta,  and  the  uprising  spread  to  the  south,  culminat- 
ing in  violent  confrontations  in  Asyut  Province  in  Upper  Egypt. 

The  deportation  of  the  Wafdists  also  triggered  student  demon- 
strations and  escalated  into  massive  strikes  by  students,  govern- 
ment officials,  professionals,  women,  and  transport  workers.  Within 
a  week,  all  of  Egypt  was  paralyzed  by  general  strikes  and  rioting. 
Railroad  and  telegraph  lines  were  cut,  taxi  drivers  refused  to  work, 
lawyers  failed  to  appear  for  court  cases,  and  demonstrators  marched 
through  the  streets  shouting  pro-Wafdist  slogans  and  demanding 
independence.  Violence  resulted,  with  many  Egyptians  and  Eu- 
ropeans being  killed  or  injured  when  the  British  attempted  to  crush 
the  demonstrations  with  force. 

On  March  16,  between  150  and  300  upper-class  Egyptian  women 
in  veils  staged  a  demonstration  against  the  British  occupation,  an 
event  that  marked  the  entrance  of  Egyptian  women  into  public  life. 
The  women  were  led  by  Safla  Zaghlul,  wife  of  Wafd  leader  Saad 
Zaghlul;  Huda  Sharawi,  wife  of  one  of  the  original  members  of 
the  Wafd  and  organizer  of  the  Egyptian  Feminist  Union;  and  Muna 
Fahmi  Wissa.  Women  of  the  lower  classes  demonstrated  in  the 
streets  alongside  the  men.  In  the  countryside,  women  engaged  in 
activities  like  cutting  rail  lines. 

The  upper-class  women  participating  in  politics  for  the  first  time 
assumed  key  roles  in  the  movement  when  the  male  leaders  were 
exiled  or  detained.  They  organized  strikes,  demonstrations,  and 
boycotts  of  British  goods  and  wrote  petitions,  which  they  circulat- 
ed to  foreign  embassies  protesting  British  actions  in  Egypt. 

The  women's  march  of  March  16  preceded  by  one  day  the  larg- 
est demonstration  of  the  1919  Revolution.  More  than  10,000 
teachers,  students,  workers,  lawyers,  and  government  employees 
started  marching  at  Al  Azhar  and  wound  their  way  to  Abdin  Palace 
where  they  were  joined  by  thousands  more,  who  ignored  British 
roadblocks  and  bans.  Soon,  similar  demonstrations  broke  out  in 
Alexandria,  Tanta,  Damanhur,  Al  Mansurah,  and  Al  Fayyum. 
By  the  summer  of  1919,  more  than  800  Egyptians  had  been  killed, 
as  well  as  31  Europeans  and  29  British  soldiers. 

Wingate,  the  British  high  commissioner,  understood  the  strength 
of  the  nationalist  forces  and  the  threat  the  Wafd  represented  to  British 
dominance  and  had  tried  to  persuade  the  British  government  to  al- 
low the  Wafd  to  travel  to  Paris.  However,  the  British  government 


47 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


remained  hostile  to  Zaghlul  and  the  nationalists  and  adamant  in 
rejecting  Egyptian  demands  for  independence.  Wingate  was  recalled 
to  London  for  talks  on  the  Egyptian  situation,  and  Milne  Cheetham 
became  acting  high  commissioner  in  January  1919.  When  the  1919 
Revolution  began,  Cheetham  soon  realized  that  he  was  powerless 
to  stop  the  demonstrations  and  admitted  that  matters  were  com- 
pletely out  of  his  control.  Nevertheless,  the  government  in  Lon- 
don ordered  him  not  to  give  in  to  the  Wafd  and  to  restore  order, 
a  task  that  he  was  unable  to  accomplish. 

London  decided  to  replace  Wingate  with  a  strong  military  figure, 
General  Edmund  Allenby,  the  greatest  British  hero  of  World  War 
I.  He  was  named  special  high  commissioner  and  arrived  in  Egypt 
on  March  25.  The  next  day,  he  met  with  a  group  of  Egyptian  na- 
tionalists and  ulama.  After  persuading  Allenby  to  release  the  Wafd 
leaders  and  to  permit  them  to  travel  to  Paris,  the  Egyptian  group 
agreed  to  sign  a  statement  urging  the  people  to  stop  demonstrat- 
ing. Allenby,  who  was  convinced  that  this  was  the  only  way  to  stop 
the  revolt,  then  had  to  persuade  the  British  government  to  agree. 
On  April  7,  Zaghlul  and  his  colleagues  were  released  and  set  out 
for  Paris. 

In  May  1919,  Lord  Milner  was  appointed  to  head  a  mission  to 
investigate  how  Egypt  could  be  granted  "self-governing  institu- 
tions" while  maintaining  the  protectorate  and  safeguarding  Brit- 
ish interests.  The  mission  arrived  in  Egypt  in  December  1919  but 
was  boycotted  by  the  nationalists,  who  opposed  the  continuation 
of  the  protectorate.  The  arrival  of  the  Milner  Mission  was  followed 
by  strikes  in  which  students,  lawyers,  professionals,  and  workers 
participated.  Merchants  closed  their  shops,  and  organizers  distribut- 
ed leaflets  urging  the  Egyptians  not  to  cooperate  with  the  mission. 

Milner  realized  that  a  direct  approach  to  Zaghlul  was  necessary, 
and  in  the  summer  of  1920  private  talks  between  the  two  men  took 
place  in  London.  As  a  result  of  the  so-called  Milner-Zaghlul  Agree- 
ment, the  British  government  announced  in  February  1921  that 
it  would  accept  the  abolition  of  the  protectorate  as  the  basis  for 
negotiation  of  a  treaty  with  Egypt. 

On  April  4,  1921,  Zaghlul's  return  to  Egypt  was  met  by  an  un- 
precedented welcome,  showing  that  the  vast  majority  of  Egyp- 
tians supported  him.  Allenby,  however,  was  determined  to  break 
Zaghlul's  political  power  and  to  build  up  a  pro-British  group  to 
whom  Britain  could  safely  commit  Egyptian  independence.  On  De- 
cember 23,  Zaghlul  was  deported  to  the  Seychelles  via  Aden.  His 
deportation  was  followed  by  demonstrations,  violent  clashes  with 
the  police,  and  strikes  by  students  and  government  employees  that 


48 


Historical  Setting 


affected  Cairo,  Alexandria,  Port  Said,  Suez,  and  provincial  towns 
like  Tanta,  Zifta,  Az  Zaqaziq,  and  Jirja. 

On  February  28,  1922,  Britain  unilaterally  declared  Egyptian 
independence  without  any  negotiations  with  Egypt.  Four  matters 
were  "absolutely  reserved  to  the  discretion"  of  the  British  govern- 
ment until  agreements  concerning  them  could  be  negotiated:  the 
security  of  communications  of  the  British  Empire  in  Egypt;  the 
defense  of  Egypt  against  all  foreign  aggressors  or  interference,  direct 
or  indirect;  the  protection  of  foreign  interests  in  Egypt  and  the  pro- 
tection of  minorities;  and  Sudan.  Sultan  Ahmad  Fuad  became  King 
Fuad  I,  and  his  son,  Faruk,  was  named  as  his  heir.  On  April  19, 
a  new  constitution  was  approved.  Also  that  month,  an  electoral 
law  was  issued  that  ushered  in  a  new  phase  in  Egypt's  political 
development — parliamentary  elections . 

The  Era  of  Liberal  Constitutionalism  and  Party  Politics 
The  Rise  and  Decline  of  the  Wafd,  1924-39 

Political  life  in  Egypt  during  this  period  has  been  described  as 
basically  triangular,  consisting  of  the  king,  the  Wafd,  and  the  Brit- 
ish. The  basis  of  British  power  was  its  army  of  occupation  as  well 
as  British  officials  in  the  administration,  police,  and  army.  The 
king's  power  rested  on  the  rights  he  could  exercise  in  accordance 
with  the  1923  constitution  and  partly  on  the  permanence  of  his  po- 
sition. The  king's  rights  included  selecting  and  appointing  the  prime 
minister,  dismissing  the  cabinet,  and  dissolving  Parliament.  The 
Wafd's  power  was  based  on  its  popular  support  and  its  command 
of  a  vast  majority  in  Parliament. 

These  three  forces  in  Egyptian  politics  were  of  unequal  strength. 
The  British  had  overwhelming  power,  and  if  their  interests  were 
at  stake,  their  power  prevailed  over  the  other  two.  The  king  was 
in  a  stronger  position  than  the  Wafd  because  his  power  was  difficult 
to  curb  while  the  Wafd  could  easily  be  removed  from  power.  The 
Wafd  embodied  parliamentary  democracy  in  Egypt;  thus,  by  its 
very  existence,  it  constituted  a  threat  to  both  the  king  and  the  Brit- 
ish. To  the  king,  any  democratic  system  was  a  threat  to  his  au- 
tocratic rule.  To  the  British,  a  democratic  system  meant  that  in 
any  free  election  the  Wafd  would  be  voted  into  power.  The  British 
believed  that  the  Wafd  in  power  was  a  threat  to  their  own  power 
in  the  country.  Thus,  the  British  attempted  to  destroy  the  power 
of  the  Wafd  and  to  use  the  king  as  a  counter  to  the  Wafd. 

In  the  parliamentary  election  of  January  12,  1924,  the  Wafd  won 
179  of  21 1  parliamentary  seats.  Two  seats  each  went  to  the  Wafd's 
opponents,  the  National  Party  and  the  Liberal  Constitutionalist 


49 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Party,  a  party  founded  in  1922  and  considered  excessively  cooper- 
ative with  the  British.  The  Wafd  felt  it  had  a  mandate  to  conclude 
a  treaty  with  Britain  that  would  assure  Egypt  complete  indepen- 
dence. As  prime  minister,  Zaghlul  carefully  selected  a  cross-section 
of  Egyptian  society  for  his  cabinet,  which  he  called  the  "People's 
Ministry."  On  March  15,  1924,  the  king  opened  the  first  Egyp- 
tian constitutional  parliament  amid  national  rejoicing.  The  Waf- 
dist  government  did  not  last  long,  however. 

On  November  19,  1924,  Sir  Lee  Stack,  the  British  governor 
general  of  Sudan  and  commander  of  the  Egyptian  army,  was  as- 
sassinated in  Cairo.  The  assassination  was  one  of  a  series  of  kill- 
ings of  British  officials  that  had  begun  in  1920.  Allenby,  who 
considered  Stack  an  old  and  trusted  friend,  was  determined  to 
avenge  the  crime  and  in  the  process  humiliate  the  Wafd  and  de- 
stroy its  credibility  in  Egypt.  Allenby  demanded  that  Egypt  apolo- 
gize, prosecute  the  assailants,  pay  a  £500,000  indemnity,  withdraw 
all  troops  from  Sudan,  consent  to  an  unlimited  increase  of  irriga- 
tion in  Sudan  and  end  all  opposition  to  the  capitulations  (Britain's 
demand  of  the  right  to  protect  foreign  interests  in  the  country). 
Zaghlul  wanted  to  resign  rather  than  accept  the  ultimatum,  but 
Allenby  presented  it  to  him  before  Zaghlul  could  offer  his  resigna- 
tion to  the  king.  Zaghlul  and  his  cabinet  decided  to  accept  the  first 
four  terms  but  to  reject  the  last  two.  On  November  24,  after  or- 
dering the  Ministry  of  Finance  to  pay  the  indemnity,  Zaghlul 
resigned.  He  died  three  years  later. 

During  the  1930s,  Ismail  Sidqi  emerged  as  the  "strong  man" 
of  Egyptian  politics  and  an  ardent  opponent  of  the  Wafd.  It  was 
he  who  abolished  the  constitution  in  1930  and  drafted  another  that 
enhanced  the  power  of  the  monarch.  He  formed  his  own  party, 
Al  Hizb  ash  Shaab,  which  merged  with  the  Ittihad  Party  in  1938. 
Also  in  1938,  dissident  members  of  the  Wafd  formed  the  Saadist 
Party,  named  after  Saad  Zaghlul. 

On  April  28,  1936,  King  Fuad  died  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
son,  Faruk.  In  the  May  elections,  the  Wafd  won  89  percent  of  the 
vote  and  157  seats  in  Parliament. 

Negotiations  with  the  British  for  a  treaty  to  resolve  matters  that 
had  been  left  outstanding  since  1922  had  resumed.  The  British  dele- 
gation was  led  by  its  high  commissioner,  Miles  Lampson,  and  the 
Egyptian  delegation  by  Wafdist  leader  and  prime  minister,  Mustafa 
Nahhas.  On  August  26,  a  draft  treaty  that  came  to  be  known  as 
the  Anglo-Egyptian  Treaty  of  1936  was  signed. 

The  treaty  provided  for  an  Anglo-Egyptian  military  and  defense 
alliance  that  allowed  Britain  to  maintain  a  garrison  of  10,000  men 
in  the  Suez  Canal  Zone.  In  addition,  Britain  was  left  in  virtual 


50 


Historical  Setting 


control  of  Sudan.  This  contradicted  the  Anglo-Egyptian  Con- 
dominium Agreement  of  1899  that  provided  that  Sudan  be  governed 
by  Egypt  and  Britain  jointly.  In  spite  of  the  agreement,  however, 
real  power  was  in  British  hands.  Egyptian  army  units  had  been 
withdrawn  from  Sudan  in  the  aftermath  of  the  Stack  assassination, 
and  the  governor  general  was  British.  Nevertheless,  Egyptian  na- 
tionalists, and  the  Wafd  particularly,  continued  to  demand  full 
Egyptian  control  of  Sudan. 

The  treaty  did  provide  for  the  end  of  the  capitulations  and  the 
phasing  out  of  the  mixed  courts.  The  British  high  commissioner 
was  redesignated  ambassador  to  Egypt,  and  when  the  British  in- 
spector general  of  the  Egyptian  army  retired,  an  Egyptian  officer 
was  appointed  to  replace  him. 

In  spite  of  these  advances,  the  treaty  did  not  give  Egypt  full  in- 
dependence, and  its  signing  produced  a  wave  of  anti-Wafdist  and 
anti-British  demonstrations.  To  many  of  its  followers,  in  negotiat- 
ing and  signing  the  treaty  the  Wafd  had  betrayed  the  nationalist 
cause.  Because  of  this  perception  and  also  because  it  had  failed  to 
develop  and  implement  a  program  for  social  and  economic  reform, 
the  Wafd  declined  in  power  and  influence.  Although  it  considered 
itself  the  representative  of  the  nation,  the  Wafd  failed  to  offer 
meaningful  domestic  programs  to  deal  with  the  problems  of  under- 
and  unemployment,  high  living  costs,  lack  of  industrial  develop- 
ment, and  unequal  distribution  of  land.  Thus,  during  the  1930s, 
support  for  the  Wafd,  particularly  among  students  and  urban 
middle-class  professionals  and  civil  servants,  was  eroded  by  more 
militant,  paramilitary  organizations  like  the  Muslim  Brotherhood 
(Al  Ikhwan  al  Muslimun,  also  known  as  the  Brotherhood)  and 
Young  Egypt  (Misr  al  Fatat). 

The  Muslim  Brotherhood  was  founded  in  1928  by  religious  leader 
Hasan  al  Banna  who  established  himself  as  the  supreme  guide  lead- 
ing his  followers  in  a  purified  Islamic  state.  The  Brotherhood 
represented  a  trend  in  the  Islamic  reform  movement  that  attribut- 
ed the  difficulties  in  Islamic  society  to  a  deviation  from  the  ideals 
and  practices  of  early  Islam  during  the  period  of  the  first  four 
caliphs.  The  aim,  therefore,  was  to  return  society  to  a  state  of  pu- 
rity by  reforming  it  from  within  and  purging  it  of  foreign  domina- 
tion and  influence.  The  Brotherhood  consisted  of  nationwide  cells, 
battalions,  youth  groups,  and  a  secret  apparatus  for  underground 
activities. 

Young  Egypt  was  founded  in  1933  by  a  lawyer,  Ahmad  Hu- 
sayn.  It  was  a  radical  nationalist  organization  with  religious  ele- 
ments. Its  aim  was  to  make  Egypt  a  great  empire,  which  would 
consist  of  Egypt  and  Sudan.  The  empire  would  act  as  an  ally  to 


51 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Arab  countries  and  serve  as  the  leader  of  Islam.  It  was  also  a 
militaristic  organization  whose  young  members  were  organized  in 
a  paramilitary  movement  called  the  Green  Shirts.  The  organiza- 
tion had  fascist  overtones  and  openly  admired  Nazi  achievements. 
As  German  power  grew,  Young  Egypt's  anti-British  tone  increased. 

Both  of  these  organizations  presented  clearly  defined  programs 
for  political,  economic,  and  social  reform.  Both  also  represented 
a  new  political  movement  whose  ideology  was  not  the  liberal  con- 
stitutionalism of  the  nationalist  movement,  which  was  regarded  as 
having  failed. 

Egypt  During  the  War,  1939-45 

With  the  beginning  of  World  War  II,  Egypt  again  became  vital 
to  Britain's  defense.  Britain  had  to  assure,  if  not  the  wholehearted 
support  of  Egypt,  at  least  its  acquiescence  in  British  military  and 
political  policies  during  the  crisis.  For  its  part,  Egypt  considered 
the  war  a  European  conflict  and  hoped  to  avoid  being  entangled 
in  it.  As  one  Axis  victory  succeeded  another,  Egyptians  grew  in- 
creasingly convinced  that  Germany  would  win  the  war.  Some  were 
pleased  at  the  prospect  of  a  German  victory,  not  because  they  were 
attracted  to  the  Nazi  ideology,  but  because  they  viewed  any  ene- 
my of  their  enemy,  Britain,  as  a  friend.  Meanwhile,  the  British 
were  determined  to  prevent  an  Egyptian-German  alliance. 

The  war  gave  the  Wafd  the  opportunity  to  return  to  power.  The 
Wafd  set  out  to  convince  the  British  that  they  would  not  lead  an 
anti-British  insurrection  during  the  wartime  crisis.  Uncertain  of 
the  loyalty  of  Prime  Minister  Ali  Mahir  and  convinced  that  the 
king  was  intriguing  against  them,  the  British  decided  to  entrust 
the  Egyptian  government  to  the  Wafd.  On  February  2,  1942,  with 
the  German  army  under  General  Erwin  Rommel  advancing  toward 
Egypt,  Lampson,  the  British  ambassador,  ordered  the  king  to  ask 
Mustafa  Nahhas,  the  Wafdist  leader,  to  form  a  government.  The 
incident  clearly  demonstrated  that  real  power  in  Egypt  resided  in 
British  hands  and  that  the  king  and  the  political  parties  existed  only 
so  long  as  Britain  was  prepared  to  tolerate  them.  It  also  eroded 
popular  support  for  the  Wafd  because  it  showed  that  the  Wafd 
would  make  an  alliance  with  the  British  for  purely  political  rea- 
sons. The  Wafd's  credibility  was  eroded  further  in  1943  when  a 
disaffected  former  Wafd  member,  Makram  Ubayd,  published  his 
Black  Book.  The  book  contained  details  of  Nahhas 's  corrupt  deal- 
ings over  the  years  and  seriously  damaged  his  reputation. 

The  Wafdist  government  fell  in  1944,  and  the  Wafd  boycotted 
the  elections  of  1945,  which  brought  a  government  of  Liberal  Con- 
stitutionalists and  Saadists  to  power.  As  World  War  II  ended,  the 


52 


Wafd  was  splintered  into  several  competing  camps.  The  political 
initiative  and  popular  support  swung  toward  the  militant  organi- 
zations on  the  right,  such  as  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  and  Young 
Egypt. 

On  the  Threshold  of  Revolution,  1945-52 

In  1945  a  Labour  Party  government  with  anti-imperialist  lean- 
ings was  elected  in  Britain.  This  election  encouraged  Egyptians 
to  believe  that  Britain  would  change  its  policy.  The  end  of  the  war 
in  Europe  and  the  Pacific,  however,  saw  the  beginning  of  a  new 
kind  of  global  war,  the  Cold  War,  in  which  Egypt  found  itself  em- 
broiled against  its  will.  Concerned  by  the  possibility  of  expansion 
by  the  Soviet  Union,  the  West  would  come  to  see  the  Middle  East 
as  a  vital  element  in  its  postwar  strategy  of  "containment."  In  ad- 
dition, pro-imperialist  British  Conservatives  like  Winston  Chur- 
chill spoke  of  Britain's  "rightful  position"  in  the  Suez  Canal  Zone. 
He  and  Anthony  Eden,  the  Conservative  Party  spokesman  on  for- 
eign affairs,  stressed  the  vital  importance  of  the  Suez  Canal  as  an 
imperial  lifeline  and  claimed  international  security  would  be  threat- 
ened by  British  withdrawal. 

In  December  1945,  Egyptian  prime  minister  Mahmud  Nuqrashi, 
sent  a  note  to  the  British  demanding  that  they  renegotiate  the  1936 
treaty  and  evacuate  British  troops  from  the  country.  Britain  re- 
fused. Riots  and  demonstrations  by  students  and  workers  broke 


53 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

out  in  Cairo  and  Alexandria,  accompanied  by  attacks  on  British 
property  and  personnel. 

The  new  Egyptian  prime  minister,  Ismail  Sidqi,  a  driving  force 
behind  Egyptian  politics  in  the  1930s  and  now  seventy-one  and 
in  poor  health,  took  over  negotiations  with  the  British.  The  Brit- 
ish Labour  Party  prime  minister,  Clement  Atlee,  agreed  to  remove 
British  troops  from  Egyptian  cities  and  bases  by  September  1949. 
The  British  had  withdrawn  their  troops  to  the  Suez  Canal  Zone 
when  negotiations  foundered  over  the  issue  of  Sudan.  Britain  said 
Sudan  was  ready  for  self-government  while  Egyptian  nationalists 
were  proclaiming  "the  unity  of  the  Nile  Valley,"  that  is,  that  Sudan 
should  be  part  of  Egypt.  Sidqi  resigned  in  December  1946  and  was 
succeeded  by  Nuqrashi,  who  referred  the  question  of  Sudan  to  the 
newly  created  United  Nations  (UN)  during  the  following  year.  The 
Brotherhood  called  for  strikes  and  a  jihad  (holy  war)  against  the 
British,  and  newspapers  called  for  a  guerrilla  war. 

In  1948  another  event  strengthened  the  Egyptian  desire  to  rid 
the  country  of  imperial  domination.  This  event  was  the  Declara- 
tion of  the  Establishment  of  the  State  of  Israel  by  David  Ben-Gurion 
in  Tel  Aviv.  The  Egyptians,  like  most  Arabs,  considered  the  State 
of  Israel  a  creation  of  Western,  specifically  British,  imperialism  and 
an  alien  entity  in  the  Arab  homeland.  In  September  1947,  the 
League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  had  decided  to  resist  by  force 
the  UN  plan  for  partition  of  Palestine  into  an  Arab  and  a  Jewish 
state.  Thus,  when  Israel  announced  its  independence  in  1948,  the 
armies  of  the  various  Arab  states,  including  Egypt,  entered  Pales- 
tine to  save  the  country  for  the  Arabs  against  what  they  considered 
Zionist  aggression.  The  Arabs  were  defeated  by  Israel,  although 
the  Arab  Legion  of  Transjordan  held  onto  the  Old  City  of  Jeru- 
salem and  the  West  Bank  (see  Glossary),  and  Egypt  saved  a  strip 
of  territory  around  Gaza  that  became  known  as  the  Gaza  Strip. 

When  the  war  began,  the  Egyptian  army  was  poorly  prepared 
and  had  no  plan  for  coordination  with  the  other  Arab  states. 
Although  there  were  individual  heroic  acts  of  resistance,  the  army 
did  not  perform  well,  and  nothing  could  disguise  the  defeat  or 
mitigate  the  intense  feeling  of  shame.  After  the  war,  there  were 
scandals  over  the  inferior  equipment  issued  to  the  military,  and 
the  king  and  government  were  blamed  for  treacherously  abandoning 
the  army.  One  of  the  men  who  served  in  the  war  was  Gamal 
Abdul  Nasser,  who  commanded  an  army  unit  in  Palestine  and  was 
wounded  in  the  chest.  Nasser  was  dismayed  by  the  inefficiency  and 
lack  of  preparation  of  the  army.  In  the  batde  for  the  Negev  Desert 
in  October  1948,  Nasser  and  his  unit  were  trapped  at  Falluja,  near 


54 


Historical  Setting 


Beersheba.  The  unit  held  out  and  was  eventually  able  to  counter- 
attack. This  event  assumed  great  importance  for  Nasser,  who  saw 
it  as  a  symbol  of  his  country's  determination  to  free  Egypt  from 
all  forms  of  oppression,  internal  and  external. 

Nasser  organized  a  clandestine  group  inside  the  army  called  the 
Free  Officers.  After  the  war  against  Israel,  the  Free  Officers  be- 
gan to  plan  for  a  revolutionary  overthrow  of  the  government.  In 
1949  nine  of  the  Free  Officers  formed  the  Committee  of  the  Free 
Officers'  Movement;  in  1950  Nasser  was  elected  chairman. 

The  Muslim  Brotherhood,  whose  volunteer  squads  had  fought 
well  against  Israel,  gained  in  popularity  and  membership.  Before 
the  war,  the  Brotherhood  was  responsible  for  numerous  attacks  on 
British  personnel  and  property.  With  the  outbreak  of  the  war  against 
Israel,  martial  law  was  declared  in  Egypt,  and  the  Brotherhood 
was  ordered  to  dissolve.  In  retaliation,  a  member  of  the  Brother- 
hood murdered  Nuqrashi,  the  prime  minister.  His  successor,  Ibra- 
him Abdul  Hadi,  detained  in  concentration  camps  thousands  of 
Brotherhood  members  as  well  as  members  of  Young  Egypt  and 
communists.  In  February  1949,  Brotherhood  founder  Hassan  al 
Banna  was  assassinated,  probably  by  agents  of  the  security  branch 
of  the  government. 

In  January  1950,  the  Wafd  returned  to  power  with  Nahhas  as 
prime  minister.  In  October  1951,  Nahhas  introduced,  and  Parlia- 
ment approved,  decrees  abrogating  unilaterally  the  Anglo-Egyptian 
Treaty  of  1936  and  proclaiming  Faruk  king  of  Egypt  and  Sudan. 
Egypt  exulted,  with  newspapers  proclaiming  that  Egypt  had  broken 
"the  fetters  of  British  imperialism."  The  Wafd  government  gave 
way  to  pressure  from  the  Brotherhood  and  leftist  groups  for  mili- 
tant opposition  to  the  British.  "Liberation  battalions"  were  formed, 
and  the  Brotherhood  and  auxiliary  police  were  armed.  Food  sup- 
plies to  the  Suez  Canal  Zone  were  blocked,  and  Egyptian  workers 
were  withdrawn  from  the  base.  A  guerrilla  war  against  the  British 
in  the  Suez  Canal  Zone  was  undertaken  by  students  and  the 
Brotherhood. 

In  December  British  bulldozers  and  Centurion  tanks  demolished 
fifty  Egyptian  mud  houses  to  open  a  road  to  a  water  supply  for 
the  British  army.  This  incident  and  one  that  followed  on  January 
25  provoked  intense  Egyptian  anger.  On  January  25,  1952,  the 
British  attacked  an  Egyptian  police  barracks  at  Ismailiya  (Al  Is- 
mailiyah)  when  its  occupants  refused  to  surrender  to  British  troops. 
Fifty  Egyptians  were  killed  and  100  wounded. 

The  January  incident  led  directly  to  "Black  Saturday,"  Janu- 
ary 26,  1952,  which  began  with  a  mutiny  by  police  in  Cairo  in 
protest  against  the  death  of  their  colleagues.  Concurrently,  groups 


55 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

of  people  in  Cairo  went  on  a  rampage.  British  property  and  other 
symbols  of  the  Western  presence  were  attacked.  By  the  end  of  the 
day,  750  establishments  valued  at  £50  million  had  been  burned 
or  destroyed.  Thirty  persons  were  killed,  including  eleven  British 
and  other  foreigners;  hundreds  were  injured. 

The  British  believed  there  was  official  connivance  in  the  riot- 
ing. Wafdist  interior  minister  Fuad  Siraj  ad  Din  (also  seen  as  Se- 
rag  al  Din)  was  accused  of  negligence  by  an  Egyptian  government 
report  and  dismissed.  The  king  dismissed  Nahhas,  and  four  prime 
ministers  held  office  in  the  next  six  months.  It  became  clear  that 
the  Egyptian  ruling  class  had  become  unable  to  rule,  and  none  of 
the  radical  nationalist  groups  was  strong  enough  to  take  power. 
This  power  vacuum  gave  the  Free  Officers  their  opportunity. 

On  July  22,  the  Free  Officers  realized  that  the  king  might  be 
preparing  to  move  against  them.  They  decided  to  strike  and  seize 
power  the  next  morning.  On  July  26,  King  Faruk,  forced  to  abdi- 
cate in  favor  of  his  infant  son,  sailed  into  exile  on  the  same  yacht 
on  which  his  grandfather,  Ismail,  had  left  for  exile  about  seventy 
years  earlier. 

The  Revolution  and  the  Early  Years  of  the  New  Government, 
1952-56 

The  nine  men  who  had  constituted  themselves  as  the  Committee 
of  the  Free  Officers'  Movement  and  led  the  1952  Revolution  were 
Lieutenant  Colonel  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser,  Major  Abd  al  Hakim 
Amir,  Lieutenant  Colonel  Anwar  as  Sadat,  Major  Salah  Salim, 
Major  Kamal  ad  Din  Husayn,  Wing  Commander  Gamal  Salim, 
Squadron  Leader  Hasan  Ibrahim,  Major  Khalid  Muhi  ad  Din, 
and  Wing  Commander  Abd  al  Latif  al  Baghdadi.  Major  Husayn 
ash  Shafii  and  Lieutenant  Colonel  Zakariyya  Muhi  ad  Din  joined 
the  committee  later. 

After  the  coup,  the  Free  Officers  asked  Ali  Mahir,  a  previous 
prime  minister,  to  head  the  government.  The  Free  Officers  formed 
the  Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC),  which  dictated  policy 
to  the  civilian  cabinet,  abolished  all  civil  tides  such  as  pasha  and 
bey,  and  ordered  all  political  parties  to  purify  their  ranks  and  recon- 
stitute their  executive  committees. 

The  RCC  elected  Muhammad  Naguib  president  and  commander 
in  chief.  He  was  chosen  because  he  was  a  popular  hero  of  the  1948 
Arab-Israeli  War  and  an  officer  trusted  by  the  army.  In  1951  the 
Free  Officers  had  elected  him  as  president  of  the  Egyptian  Army 
Officers  Club  over  the  candidate  chosen  by  Faruk.  It  was  extremely 
important  for  the  Free  Officers  to  ensure  the  loyalty  of  the  army 


56 


Historical  Setting 


if  the  coup  were  to  succeed.  Naguib  was  fifty-one  years  old;  the 
average  age  of  the  other  Free  Officers  was  thirty-three. 

The  decision  made  by  the  Wafd  government  after  the  Anglo- 
Egyptian  Treaty  of  1936  to  allow  sons  of  nonaristocratic  families 
into  the  Military  Academy  had  proved  an  important  one  for  the 
future  of  Egypt.  It  meant  that  men  such  as  Nasser  and  Sadat  were 
able  to  become  officers  in  the  army  and  thus  be  in  a  position  to 
shape  events  in  Egypt.  The  decision  had  been  made,  not  to  create 
a  more  egalitarian  officer  corps,  but  rather  to  meet  a  desperate  need 
for  more  officers.  As  it  turned  out,  most  members  of  the  Free 
Officers'  group  and  all  of  the  original  members  of  the  RCC  had 
entered  the  Military  Academy  during  the  period  between  1937  and 
1940.  The  men  who  profited  from  this  new  policy  were  not  from 
the  poorest  families;  their  families  had  to  have  enough  money  to 
send  their  children  to  secondary  schools.  For  the  most  part,  they 
were  from  families  of  moderately  prosperous  landholders  and  minor 
government  officials,  who  constituted  the  class  of  rural  notables. 

Nasser  himself  came  from  a  rural  notable  family.  His  father  was 
from  a  small  village  in  Upper  Egypt  and  worked  as  a  postal  clerk. 
In  1915  the  senior  Nasser  moved  to  Alexandria,  where  on  Janu- 
ary 15,  1918,  his  first  son,  Gamal,  was  born.  At  the  age  of  seven, 
Gamal  was  sent  to  Cairo  to  live  with  his  uncle  and  to  attend  school. 
He  went  to  a  school  in  Khan  al  Khalili,  the  old  quarter  of  the  city 
near  Al  Azhar  mosque,  where  he  experienced  firsthand  the  bustiing, 
crowded  quarters  of  Cairo  and  the  poverty  of  many  in  the  city. 
Between  1933  and  1938,  he  attended  An  Nahda  (the  Awakening) 
School  in  Cairo,  where  he  combined  studying  with  demonstrating 
against  British  and  Egyptian  politicians.  In  November  1935,  he 
marched  in  demonstrations  against  the  British  and  was  wounded 
by  a  bullet  fired  by  British  troops.  Identified  as  an  agitator  by  the 
police,  he  was  asked  to  leave  his  school.  After  a  few  months  in  law 
school,  he  joined  the  army. 

Nasser  desired  vehemently  to  change  his  country;  he  believed 
that  the  British  and  the  British-controlled  king  and  politicians  would 
continue  to  harm  the  interests  of  the  majority  of  the  population. 
Nasser  and  the  other  Free  Officers  had  no  particular  desire  for  a 
military  career,  but  Nasser  had  perceived  that  military  life  offered 
upward  mobility  and  a  chance  to  participate  in  shaping  the  coun- 
try's future.  The  Free  Officers  were  united  by  their  desire  to  see 
Egypt  freed  of  British  control  and  a  more  equitable  government 
established.  Nasser  and  many  of  the  others  seemed  to  be  attached 
to  no  particular  political  ideology,  although  some,  such  as  Khalid 
Muhi  ad  Din,  were  Marxists  and  a  few  sympathized  with  the  Mus- 
lim Brotherhood.  The  lack  of  a  coherent  ideology  would  cause 


57 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

difficulties  in  the  future  when  these  men  set  about  the  task  of  govern- 
ing Egypt. 

Although  Naguib  headed  the  RCC  and  Mahir  the  civilian 
government,  Nasser  was  the  real  power  behind  the  RCC.  The  years 
between  1952  and  1954  witnessed  a  struggle  for  control  of  the 
government  that  Nasser  ultimately  won.  The  first  crisis  to  face  the 
new  government  came  in  August  1952  with  a  violent  strike  involving 
more  than  10,000  workers  at  the  Misr  Company  textile  factories 
at  Kafr  ad  Dawwar  in  the  Delta.  Workers  attacked  and  set  fire 
to  part  of  the  premises,  destroyed  machinery,  and  clashed  with  the 
police.  The  army  was  called  in  to  put  down  the  strike;  several  work- 
ers lost  their  lives,  and  scores  were  injured.  The  RCC  set  up  a 
special  military  court  that  tried  the  arrested  textile  workers.  Two 
were  convicted  and  executed,  and  many  others  were  given  prison 
sentences.  The  regime  reacted  quickly  and  ruthlessly  because  it 
had  no  intention  of  encouraging  a  popular  revolution  that  it  could 
not  control.  It  then  arrested  about  thirty  persons  charged  with  be- 
longing to  the  outlawed  Communist  Party  of  Egypt  (CPE).  The 
Democratic  Movement  for  National  Liberation,  a  faction  of  the 
CPE,  reacted  by  denouncing  the  regime  as  a  military  dictatorship. 

On  September  7,  Ali  Mahir  resigned,  and  Naguib  became  prime 
minister,  minister  of  war,  commander  in  chief,  and  president  of 
the  RCC.  That  same  month,  the  RCC  passed  its  first  major  domes- 
tic measure,  the  Agrarian  Reform  Law  of  1952.  The  law  was  in- 
tended to  abolish  the  power  of  the  absentee  landlord  class,  to 
encourage  investment  in  industry,  and  to  build  support  for  the  re- 
gime. The  law  limited  landholdings  to  200  feddans  with  the  right 
to  transfer  another  100  to  wives  and  children.  The  owners  of  the 
land  requisitioned  by  the  government  received  about  half  the  market 
value  of  the  land  at  1951  prices  in  the  form  of  government  bonds. 
The  land  was  sold  in  lots  of  two  to  five  feddans  to  tenants  and  small 
farmers  owning  less  than  five  feddans.  The  small  farmers  had  to 
buy  the  lots  at  a  price  equal  to  the  compensation  paid  to  the  form- 
er owner. 

The  RCC  also  dealt  with  labor  legislation  and  education.  Ini- 
tial legislation  raised  minimum  wages,  reduced  working  hours,  and 
created  more  jobs  to  reduce  unemployment.  Enforcement  of  these 
measures  was  lax  until  the  early  1960s,  however.  In  another  effort 
to  reduce  unemployment,  the  RCC  instituted  a  policy  of  provid- 
ing employment  in  government  service  for  all  university  gradu- 
ates, a  practice  that  swelled  the  ranks  of  the  bureaucracy  and  left 
many  skilled  people  underused.  The  government  increased  its 
spending  on  education  with  the  goal  of  educating  all  citizens.  Rent 
control  was  established,  and  the  government  undertook  construction 


58 


Historical  Setting 


of  housing  for  workers.  These  programs  were  expanded  in  the 
1960s. 

On  January  17,  1953,  all  political  parties  were  dissolved  and 
banned.  A  three-year  transition  period  was  proclaimed  during  which 
the  RCC  would  rule.  On  February  10,  the  Liberation  Rally  head- 
ed by  Nasser  was  launched  to  serve  as  an  organization  for  the 
mobilization  of  popular  support  for  the  new  government.  On  June 
18,  Egypt  was  declared  a  republic,  and  the  monarchy  was  abolished, 
ending  the  rule  of  Muhammad  Ali's  dynasty.  Naguib  became  the 
first  president  and  also  prime  minister.  Nasser  became  deputy  prime 
minister  and  minister  of  interior.  Other  officers  took  over  other 
ministries. 

Between  1952  and  1954,  there  was  a  struggle  between  Naguib 
and  Nasser  and  his  colleagues  on  the  RCC  for  control  of  the  govern- 
ment and  over  the  future  form  of  the  government.  Naguib  was  to 
have  one  vote  on  the  council  and  was  responsible  for  carrying  out 
council  decisions.  He  enjoyed  considerable  popularity,  and  he  de- 
veloped his  own  following  after  conflicts  involving  policies  arose 
between  him  and  the  RCC.  The  conflicts  came  to  a  head  on  Febru- 
ary 23,  1954  when  Naguib  resigned.  The  RCC  may  have  been 
relieved  at  this  decision,  but  the  popular  outcry  was  so  great  that 
Naguib  was  reinstated  as  president  of  the  republic.  Nasser,  however, 
took  the  position  of  prime  minister,  previously  held  by  Naguib, 
and  remained  president  of  the  RCC. 

As  soon  as  the  Free  Officers  came  to  power,  their  immediate 
and  major  concern  was  the  evacuation  of  Britain  from  Egypt.  At 
first,  the  Free  Officers  feared  that  the  British  from  their  garrison 
in  the  Suez  Canal  Zone  might  try  to  intervene  on  behalf  of  the 
king.  However,  the  British  made  it  clear  that  they  would  not  in- 
terfere on  behalf  of  the  king  nor  take  any  action  unless  British  lives 
were  threatened.  Achieving  the  evacuation  of  the  British,  however, 
involved  two  contentious  issues — Sudan  and  the  Suez  Canal.  Sudan 
proved  to  be  the  easier  to  resolve.  In  February  1953,  the  Egyptian 
government  agreed  to  a  plan  for  self-determination  for  Sudan  to 
be  implemented  over  a  three-year  period.  The  Sudanese  opted  for 
independence  rather  than  union  with  Egypt. 

The  issue  of  the  Suez  Canal  was  more  complex  and  linked  to 
Britain's  desire  to  involve  Egypt  in  the  West's  Cold  War  with  the 
Soviet  Union.  As  early  as  September  1952,  the  British  government 
announced  that  there  was  no  strategic  alternative  to  the  maintenance 
of  the  British  base  in  the  canal  area.  In  the  opinion  of  Anthony 
Eden,  British  foreign  secretary,  Egypt  had  to  fit  into  a  regional 
defense  system,  the  Baghdad  Pact,  and  agreement  on  this  point 
would  have  to  precede  any  withdrawal  from  the  canal. 


59 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

This  was  the  period  of  pacts  directed  against  the  Soviet  Union. 
The  North  Adantic  Treaty  Organization  and  Southeast  Asia  Treaty 
Organization  were  supposed  to  contain  the  Soviet  Union  in  the 
west  and  east.  The  Baghdad  Pact,  bringing  into  alliance  Britain, 
Turkey,  Iran,  Pakistan,  and  Iraq,  was  supposed  to  do  the  same 
on  the  Soviet  Union's  southern  borders.  The  British  government 
was  attempting  to  force  Egypt  to  join  the  alliance  by  refusing  to 
discuss  evacuation  of  the  Suez  Canal  base  until  Egypt  agreed. 

Egypt,  however,  would  discuss  only  evacuation  and  eventual  ad- 
ministration of  the  base,  and  the  British  slowly  realized  the  draw- 
backs of  holding  the  base  without  Egyptian  acquiescence.  By 
October  1954,  Nasser  signed  an  agreement  providing  for  the  with- 
drawal of  all  British  troops  from  the  base  within  twenty  months, 
with  the  provision  that  the  British  base  could  be  reactivated  in  the 
event  of  an  attack  on  Egypt  by  an  outside  power  or  an  Arab  League 
state  or  an  attack  on  Turkey. 

The  agreement  gained  a  mixed  reception  among  Egyptians. 
Despite  the  enthusiasm  for  ending  imperialism,  there  were  those 
who  criticized  Nasser  for  rewriting  the  old  treaty.  Nasser's  chief 
critics  were  the  communists  and  the  Brotherhood.  It  was  while  Nas- 
ser was  justifying  the  canal  agreement  to  a  crowd  in  Alexandria 
on  October  26,  1954  that  a  member  of  the  Brotherhood  attempted 
to  kill  him.  The  following  day,  in  a  show  of  courage,  Nasser  deliber- 
ately appeared  before  crowds  in  Alexandria,  at  stations  en  route 
to  Cairo,  and  in  the  capital.  In  Cairo  he  was  met  by  an  estimated 
200,000  people,  his  popularity  having  been  enormously  strength- 
ened by  this  incident. 

Although  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  had  a  long  history  of  anti- 
British  and  antiregime  activities,  its  leaders  stipulated  that  they 
would  work  with  the  Free  Officers  only  if  the  officers  would  agree 
to  Brotherhood  objectives.  Because  the  Brotherhood  would  not 
refrain  from  opposing  the  RCC,  Nasser  had  outlawed  the  organi- 
zation in  February  1954.  Naguib  had  always  had  a  certain  sym- 
pathy for  the  Brotherhood,  and  its  leaders  implicated  him  in  the 
attack  on  Nasser.  It  is  doubtful  that  he  had  any  connection  with 
the  attack,  but  it  gave  Nasser  the  pretext  he  needed  to  remove 
Naguib  from  the  presidency,  and  he  did  so  in  November. 

In  February  1955,  Eden  visited  Cairo  seeking  again  to  persuade 
Nasser  to  join  the  Baghdad  Pact.  Nasser  again  refused.  Many  Egyp- 
tians were  skeptical  of  Britain's  intentions  and  believed  that  mem- 
bership in  the  pact  would  amount  to  trading  one  form  of  British 
domination  for  another.  In  addition,  however,  Nasser  was  increas- 
ingly attracted  to  the  Nonaligned  Movement  that  eschewed  mem- 
bership in  either  the  Western  or  the  Soviet  camp.  Nasser  was  no 


60 


Historical  Setting 


particular  friend  of  the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  Communist  Party 
remained  outlawed  in  Egypt.  It  was  Western  imperialism  and 
colonialism,  however,  that  Egypt  had  been  struggling  against. 

Nasser  also  had  become  an  admirer  and  friend  of  President  Mar- 
shal Josip  Broz  Tito  of  Yugoslavia  and  Prime  Minister  Jawaharlal 
Nehru  of  India.  Tito  had  survived  by  aligning  himself  neither  with 
the  West  nor  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Together,  he  and  Nasser  de- 
veloped the  concept  of  nonalignment,  which  entailed  avoiding  both 
pro-  and  anti- Soviet  pacts  but  did  not  prevent  them  from  purchasing 
arms  or  receiving  aid  from  either  bloc.  Nevertheless,  the  West,  par- 
ticularly the  United  States,  expected  Third  World  countries  to  sup- 
port the  West  in  return  for  both  arms  and  aid,  as  Nasser  was  soon 
to  learn. 

A  turning  point  for  Nasser  was  the  Conference  of  the  Nonaligned 
Movement  in  Bandung,  Indonesia  in  April  1955.  There  he  found 
himself  the  center  of  attention  as  a  Third  World  leader,  accepted 
as  a  colleague  by  Chinese  premier  Zhou  Enlai,  and  greeted  by 
crowds  in  the  streets.  Egyptian  participation  in  the  conference,  along 
with  other  former  colonies  such  as  India,  symbolized  not  only  the 
new  postcolonial  world  order  but  also  Egypt's  own  independence. 

Another  turning  point  for  Nasser  came  in  February  1955  when 
he  became  convinced  that  Egypt  had  to  arm  to  defend  itself  against 
Israel.  This  decision  put  him  on  a  collision  course  with  the  West 
that  ended  on  the  batdefields  of  Suez  a  year  later.  In  February  1955, 
the  Israeli  army  attacked  Egyptian  military  outposts  in  Gaza. 
Thirty-nine  Egyptians  were  killed.  Until  then,  this  had  been  Isra- 
el's least  troublesome  frontier.  Since  the  end  of  the  1948  Arab-Israeli 
War,  Egypt's  leaders,  from  King  Faruk  to  Nasser,  had  avoided 
militant  attitudes  on  the  grounds  that  Israel  should  not  distract 
Egypt  from  domestic  problems.  Nasser  made  no  serious  attempt 
to  narrow  Israel's  rapidly  widening  armaments  lead.  He  preferred 
to  spend  Egypt's  meager  hard  currency  reserves  on  development. 

Israel's  raid  on  Gaza  changed  Nasser's  mind,  however.  At  first 
he  sought  Western  aid,  but  he  was  rebuffed  by  the  United  States, 
France,  and  Britain.  The  United  States  government,  especially  the 
passionately  anticommunist  Secretary  of  State  John  Foster  Dulles, 
clearly  disapproved  of  Egypt's  nonalignment  and  would  make  it 
difficult  for  Egypt  to  purchase  arms.  The  French  demanded  that 
Egypt  cease  aiding  the  Algerian  national  movement,  which  was 
fighting  for  independence  from  France.  The  British  warned  Nas- 
ser that  if  he  accepted  Soviet  weapons,  none  would  be  forthcom- 
ing from  Britain. 

Rejected  in  this  shortsighted  way  by  the  West,  Nasser  negotiat- 
ed the  famous  arms  agreement  with  Czechoslovakia  in  September 


61 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

1955.  This  agreement  marked  the  Soviet  Union's  first  great  break- 
through in  its  effort  to  undermine  Western  influence  in  the  Mid- 
dle East.  Egypt  received  no  arms  from  the  West  and  eventually 
became  dependent  on  arms  from  the  Soviet  Union. 

Relations  between  Nasser  and  the  West  reached  a  crisis  over  plans 
to  finance  the  Aswan  High  Dam.  Construction  of  the  dam  was  one 
of  the  earliest  decisions  of  the  Free  Officers.  It  would  increase  both 
electrical  generating  power  and  irrigated  land  area.  It  would  serve 
industry  and  agriculture  and  symbolize  the  new  Egypt.  The  Unit- 
ed States  agreed  to  give  Egypt  an  unconditional  loan  of  US$56  mil- 
lion, and  Britain  agreed  to  lend  Egypt  US$14.  The  British  loan 
was  contingent  on  the  American  loan.  The  World  Bank  (see  Glos- 
sary) also  agreed  to  lend  Egypt  an  additional  US$200  million.  The 
World  Bank  loan  stipulated  that  Egypt's  budget  be  supervised  by 
World  Bank  officials.  To  Nasser  these  conditions  were  insulting 
and  were  reminiscent  of  Europe's  control  over  Egypt's  finances 
in  the  1870s. 

While  Nasser  admitted  to  doubts  about  the  West's  sincerity,  the 
United  States  became  incensed  over  Egypt's  decision  to  recognize 
communist  China.  Meanwhile,  the  Soviet  Union  was  offering  aid 
to  Egypt  in  several  forms,  including  a  loan  to  finance  the  Aswan 
High  Dam.  Then,  on  July  19,  the  United  States  withdrew  its  loan 
offer,  and  Britain  and  the  World  Bank  followed  suit.  Nasser  was 
returning  to  Cairo  from  a  meeting  with  President  Tito  and  Prime 
Minister  Nehru  when  he  heard  the  news.  He  was  furious  and  decid- 
ed to  retaliate  with  an  action  that  shocked  the  West  and  made  him 
the  hero  of  the  Arabs. 

On  July  26,  1956,  the  fourth  anniversary  of  King  Faruk's  exile, 
Nasser  appeared  in  Muhammad  Ali  Square  in  Alexandria  where 
twenty  months  earlier  an  assassin  had  attempted  to  kill  him.  An 
immense  crowd  gathered,  and  he  began  a  three-hour  speech  from 
a  few  notes  jotted  on  the  back  of  an  envelope.  When  Nasser  said 
the  code  word,  "de  Lesseps,"  it  was  the  signal  for  engineer  Mah- 
mud  Yunis  to  begin  the  takeover  of  the  Suez  Canal. 

The  canal's  owner  was  the  Suez  Canal  Company,  an  interna- 
tional company  with  headquarters  in  Paris.  Anthony  Eden,  then 
British  prime  minister,  called  the  nationalization  of  the  canal 
"theft,"  and  United  States  secretary  of  state  Dulles  said  Nasser 
would  have  to  be  made  to  "disgorge"  it.  The  French  and  British 
depended  heavily  on  the  canal  for  transporting  oil  supplies,  and 
they  felt  that  Nasser  had  become  a  threat  to  their  remaining  in- 
terests in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  Eden  wanted  to  launch  a 
military  action  immediately  but  was  informed  that  Britain  was  not 
in  a  position  to  do  so.  Both  France  and  Britain  froze  Egyptian 


62 


Historical  Setting 


assets  in  their  countries  and  increased  their  military  preparedness 
in  the  eastern  Mediterranean. 

Egypt  promised  to  compensate  the  stockholders  of  the  Suez  Canal 
Company  and  to  guarantee  right  of  access  to  all  ships,  so  it  was 
difficult  for  the  French  and  British  to  rally  international  support 
to  regain  the  canal  by  force.  The  Soviet  Union,  its  East  European 
allies,  and  Third  World  countries  generally  supported  Egypt.  The 
United  States  moved  farther  away  from  Britain  and  stated  that  while 
it  opposed  the  nationalization  of  the  canal,  it  was  against  the  use 
of  force. 

What  followed  was  the  invasion  of  Egypt  by  Britain,  France, 
and  Israel,  an  action  known  as  the  Tripartite  Invasion  or  the  1956 
War.  Whereas  the  truth  about  the  invasion  eventually  became 
known,  at  the  time  the  Conservative  government  in  London  de- 
nied that  it  used  Israel  as  an  excuse  for  attacking  Egypt.  Eden, 
who  had  an  intense  personal  dislike  for  Nasser,  concealed  the 
cooperation  with  Israel  from  his  colleagues,  British  diplomats,  and 
the  United  States. 

The  plan,  which  was  supposed  to  enable  Britain  and  France  to 
gain  physical  control  of  the  canal,  called  for  Israel  to  attack  across 
the  Sinai  Desert.  When  Israel  neared  the  canal,  Britain  and  France 
would  issue  an  ultimatum  for  an  Egyptian  and  Israeli  withdrawal 
from  both  sides  of  the  canal.  An  Anglo-French  force  would  then 
occupy  the  canal  to  prevent  further  fighting  and  to  keep  it  open 
to  shipping.  Israeli  prime  minister  David  Ben-Gurion  agreed  to 
the  plan  but  informed  Britain  that  Israel  would  not  attack  unless 
Britain  and  France  first  destroyed  the  Egyptian  air  force. 

On  October  28,  Israeli  troops  crossed  the  frontier  into  the  Sinai 
Peninsula  (also  seen  as  Sinai),  allegedly  to  destroy  the  bases  of  Egyp- 
tian commandos.  The  first  sign  of  collusion  between  Israel  and  Brit- 
ain and  France  came  on  the  same  day  when  the  Anglo-French 
ultimatum  was  handed  to  Egypt  and  Israel  before  Israel  had  even 
reached  the  canal.  British  bombing  destroyed  the  Egyptian  air  force, 
and  British  and  French  paratroopers  were  dropped  over  Port  Said 
and  Port  Fuad.  The  Egyptians  put  up  fierce  resistance.  Ships  were 
sunk  in  the  canal  to  prevent  transit.  In  the  battle  for  Port  Said, 
about  2,700  Egyptian  civilians  and  soldiers  were  killed  or  wound- 
ed (see  The  1956  War,  ch.  5). 

Although  it  was  invaded  and  occupied  for  a  time,  Egypt  can  claim 
to  have  emerged  the  victor.  There  was  almost  universal  condem- 
nation of  the  Tripartite  Invasion.  The  Soviet  Union  threatened 
Britain  and  France  with  a  rocket  attack  if  they  did  not  withdraw. 
The  United  States,  angered  because  it  had  not  been  informed  by 
its  allies  of  the  invasion,  realized  it  could  not  allow  the  Soviet 


63 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Union  to  appear  as  the  champion  of  the  Third  World  against 
Western  imperialism.  Thus,  the  United  States  put  pressure  on  the 
British  and  French  to  withdraw.  Faced  with  almost  total  opposi- 
tion to  the  invasion,  the  anger  of  the  United  States,  and  the  threat 
of  the  collapse  of  the  pound  sterling,  the  British  agreed  to  with- 
draw. Severely  condemned,  Britain  and  France  accepted  a  cease- 
fire on  November  6,  as  their  troops  were  poised  to  advance  the 
length  of  the  canal.  The  final  evacuation  took  place  on  December  22. 

Israel,  which  occupied  all  of  Sinai,  was  reluctant  to  withdraw. 
President  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  of  the  United  States  placed  great 
pressure  on  Israel  to  give  up  all  its  territorial  acquisitions  and  even 
threatened  sanctions.  The  Israelis  did  withdraw  from  Sinai,  but 
they  carried  out  a  scorched  earth  policy,  destroying  roads,  railroads, 
and  military  installations  as  they  went. 

A  United  Nations  Emergency  Force  (UNEF)  was  established  and 
began  arriving  in  Egypt  on  November  21.  The  troops  were  sta- 
tioned on  the  Egyptian  side  of  the  Egyptian-Israeli  border  as  well 
as  along  the  eastern  coast  of  Sinai.  Israel  refused  to  allow  UN  troops 
on  its  territory.  The  UN  troops  were  stationed  on  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba 
to  ensure  the  free  passage  of  Israeli  shipping  to  Elat.  The  troops 
remained  in  Egypt  until  1967,  when  their  removal  contributed  to 
the  outbreak  of  the  June  1967  War. 

Egypt  reopened  the  canal  to  shipping  in  April  and  ran  it  smooth- 
ly. It  was  open  to  all  ships  except  those  of  Israel,  and  it  remained 
open  until  the  June  1967  War  (Arab-Israeli  war,  also  known  as 
the  Six-Day  War).  Diplomatic  relations  between  Egypt  and  Brit- 
ain were  not  restored  until  1969. 

Nasser  had  won  a  significant  victory.  The  immediate  effect  was 
that  Britain  and  France  were  finally  out  of  Egypt.  Nasser  went  on 
to  nationalize  all  other  British  and  French  assets  in  Egypt.  The 
Egyptians  now  had  full  control  of  the  canal  and  its  revenues.  The 
Suez  crisis  also  made  Nasser  the  hero  of  the  Arab  world,  a  man 
who  had  stood  up  to  Western  imperialism  and  had  prevailed. 

In  response  to  his  increased  prestige,  Nasser  emphasized  the  Arab 
character  of  Egypt  and  its  leadership  role  in  the  Arab  world.  He 
had  always  had  a  concern  for  Arab  causes,  as  shown  by  his  volun- 
teering to  fight  in  Palestine  in  1948,  but  now  this  tendency  was 
amplified.  His  Egyptian  nationalism  became  Arab  nationalism 
when  he  decided  that  if  the  Arab  countries  worked  together,  they 
would  have  the  resources  to  solve  their  individual  problems.  In  ad- 
dition, the  move  toward  nationalization,  which  started  with  French 
and  British  assets,  continued  in  Egypt  and  became  a  cornerstone 
of  Nasser's  administration. 


64 


Temple  of  Hathor,  Dendera  (Dandarah ),  Ptolemaic  period,  305-30  B.  C. 

Courtesy  Boris  Boguslavsky 

Another  result  of  the  1956  events  was  the  increased  Soviet  in- 
fluence in  Egypt  stemming  from  the  Soviet  financing  of  the  Aswan 
High  Dam  construction  and  Soviet  arms  sales  to  Egypt.  Thus, 
Egypt  became  the  cornerstone  of  the  Soviet  Union's  Middle  East 
policy. 

Egypt  and  the  Arab  World 

For  a  variety  of  conflicting  reasons,  the  political  leaders  of  Syria 
in  January  1958  asked  Nasser  for  a  union  between  their  two  coun- 
tries. Nasser  was  skeptical  at  first  and  then  insisted  on  strict  con- 
ditions for  union,  including  a  complete  union  rather  than  a  federal 
state  and  the  abolition  of  the  Baath  (Arab  Socialist  Resurrection) 
Party,  then  in  power,  and  all  other  Syrian  political  parties.  Be- 
cause the  Syrians  believed  that  Nasser's  ideas  represented  their  own 
goals  and  that  they  would  play  a  large  role  in  the  union,  they  agreed 
to  the  conditions.  A  plebiscite  was  held  in  both  countries  in  1958, 
and  Nasser  was  elected  president.  Cairo  was  designated  the  capi- 
tal of  the  United  Arab  Republic.  Nasser  then  visited  Damascus, 
where  he  received  a  tumultuous  welcome.  Arabs  everywhere  felt 
a  new  sense  of  pride. 

Several  Arab  governments  viewed  Nasser  with  less  enthusiasm, 
however.  The  conservative  monarchies  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  Jordan 


65 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


saw  his  ideas  as  a  potential  threat  to  their  own  power.  Nasser  regard- 
ed these  monarchs  as  reactionaries  and  as  obstacles  to  Arab  unity. 
The  United  States  moved  to  strengthen  these  regimes  as  well  as 
the  government  of  Lebanon  in  an  effort  to  offset  the  influence  of 
Egypt. 

The  hastily  conceived  union  of  Syria  and  Egypt  did  not  last  long. 
There  were  too  many  problems  to  overcome:  the  two  countries  were 
not  contiguous,  their  economies  and  populations  were  different, 
and  the  Syrian  elite  deeply  resented  being  made  subservient  to 
Egyptian  dictates.  The  deciding  factor  for  the  Syrian  upper  and 
middle  classes  came  in  July  1961  when  Nasser  issued  the  so-called 
"socialist  decrees"  that  called  for  widespread  nationalizations.  This 
was  followed  by  the  elimination  of  local  autonomy  and  a  plan  for 
the  unification  of  Egyptian  and  Syrian  currencies,  a  move  that 
would  deal  the  final  blow  to  Syrian  economic  independence. 

There  was  also  resentment  in  the  army  that  paralleled  the  resent- 
ment in  civilian  circles.  On  September  28,  a  group  of  army  officers 
called  the  High  Arab  Revolutionary  Command  staged  a  success- 
ful coup  and  proclaimed  the  separation  of  Syria  from  Egypt.  Nasser 
decided  not  to  resist  and  ordered  his  troops  to  surrender.  He  blamed 
Syria's  defection  on  "reactionaries"  and  "agents  of  imperialism." 

During  the  same  period,  Egypt  attempted  a  separate  union  with 
Yemen.  This  federation,  called  the  United  Arab  States,  fared  no 
better  than  the  Syrian  one.  In  December  1961,  Nasser  formally 
ended  it.  In  1962  a  military  coup  overthrew  the  royalist  govern- 
ment in  Yemen.  Nasser  intervened  to  support  the  new  republican 
government  against  the  Saudi  Arabia-backed  royalists,  who  were 
attempting  to  regain  control.  This  undertaking  proved  to  be  a  great 
drain  on  Egypt's  financial  and  military  resources.  At  the  height 
of  its  involvement,  Egypt  had  75,000  troops  in  Yemen.  Egypt's 
intervention  also  increased  inter- Arab  tensions,  especially  between 
Saudi  Arabia  and  Egypt.  Egypt's  defeat  at  the  hands  of  Israel  in 
the  June  1967  War  obliged  it  to  withdraw  its  forces  from  Yemen 
and  to  seek  peace.  A  settlement  was  achieved  at  a  conference  in 
Khartoum  in  1967. 

Nasser  and  Arab  Socialism 

Nasser  concentrated  on  implementing  his  doctrine  of  Arab  so- 
cialism internally,  especially  after  the  break  with  Syria.  The  Na- 
tional Charter,  essentially  drawn  up  by  Nasser,  was  promulgated 
in  1962.  It  established  the  basis  of  authority  for  the  new  constitu- 
tion that  was  to  follow.  It  showed  a  change  in  orientation  from  the 
nationalist  goals  of  the  original  revolution  and  emphasized  that 
Egypt  was  an  Arab  nation  based  on  Islamic  principles.  In  addition, 


66 


Historical  Setting 


the  Arab  Socialist  Union  (ASU)  was  created  to  be  the  sole  politi- 
cal party  and  a  means  of  gathering  the  support  of  the  masses. 

In  July  on  the  ninth  anniversary  of  the  1952  coup,  Nasser  an- 
nounced a  list  of  nationalizations  that  cut  more  deeply  into  the  pri- 
vate sector  than  had  occurred  in  any  country  outside  of  Eastern 
Europe.  The  decrees  nationalized  all  private  banks,  all  insurance 
companies,  and  fifty  shipping  companies  and  firms  in  heavy  and 
basic  industries.  Eighty-three  companies  were  obliged  to  sell  50 
percent  or  more  of  their  shares  to  public  agencies.  A  second  agrarian 
reform  law  lowered  the  limit  for  an  individual  owner  from  200  to 
100  feddans.  The  nationalization  program  continued  in  successive 
waves  through  1962  and  1963  and  involved  shipping  companies, 
cotton- ginning  factories,  cotton-exporting  companies,  pharmaceutical 
producers,  ocean  and  river  transport  companies,  trucking  compa- 
nies, glass  factories,  and  the  largest  book-publishing  company  in 
Egypt.  Between  1952  and  1966,  £E7  billion  (for  value  of  the  Egyp- 
tian pound,  see  Glossary)  in  shared  and  public  assets  were  trans- 
ferred to  public  ownership  (see  The  Role  of  Government,  ch.  3). 

The  decrees  also  included  legislation  such  as  taxing  gross  incomes 
over  £E5,000  at  the  rate  of  90  percent,  limiting  base  salaries  of 
public  sector  directors  to  £E5,000,  and  limiting  membership  on 
all  boards  of  directors  to  seven  persons,  two  of  whom  must  be  work- 
ers. All  joint- stock  companies  were  required  to  place  5  percent  of 
all  profits  in  government  bonds  and  to  allot  1 0  percent  to  workers 
in  cash  and  15  percent  to  worker  housing  and  community  infra- 
structure. The  work  week  was  reduced  to  forty-two  hours,  and  the 
minimum  wage  was  raised.  Half  of  all  seats  in  Parliament  and  on 
all  elective  bodies  and  worker-management  boards  were  reserved 
for  peasants  and  workers. 

Elections  were  held  in  March  1964  for  a  new  National  Assem- 
bly from  a  list  of  candidates  drawn  up  by  the  ASU.  Immediately 
after  the  election,  Nasser  released  a  draft  constitution  that  func- 
tioned until  1971.  The  constitution  was  based  on  the  National 
Charter  and  emphasized  freedom,  socialism,  and  unity. 

The  position  of  some  minority  groups  changed  during  this  peri- 
od. Most  Jews  left  Egypt,  the  last  large  group  being  several  thou- 
sand who  did  not  have  Egyptian  citizenship  and  who  were  expelled 
during  the  Suez  crisis.  The  Greek  community  also  decreased  con- 
siderably because  many  Greeks  who  did  not  like  socialism  returned 
to  Greece. 

Egypt,  the  Arabs,  and  Israel 

During  the  late  1950s  and  early  1960s,  the  question  of  Israel  be- 
came more  vexing  for  the  Arab  states.  In  1964,  in  spite  of  the 


67 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

problems  that  existed  among  the  various  Arab  states,  Nasser  in- 
itiated Arab  summit  meetings  that  were  held  in  January,  March, 
and  September  in  Cairo  and  Casablanca.  The  immediate  reason 
for  the  summits  was  to  find  a  way  to  block  Israel's  plan  to  divert 
the  waters  of  the  Jordan  River  to  irrigate  the  Negev  Desert,  a  plan 
that  would  deprive  the  lower  Jordan  River  valley  of  water.  The 
Arab  states  drew  up  a  plan  that  called  for  diverting  the  Jordan  River 
in  Syria  and  Lebanon  but  did  not  implement  it. 

The  Arab  summit  meetings  also  took  up  other  matters.  League 
members  agreed  to  created  a  unified  military  command,  the  United 
Arab  Command,  with  headquarters  in  Cairo,  but  this  plan,  like 
that  of  diverting  the  Jordan  River,  remained  on  paper.  The  Arab 
leaders  did  implement  a  plan  to  create  the  Palestine  Liberation  Or- 
ganization (PLO)  to  be  the  primary  organization  of  Palestinians. 
The  Arab  governments,  especially  Egypt,  were  becoming  increas- 
ingly uneasy  about  the  growing  activities  of  Palestinian  guerrillas, 
and  they  wanted  to  create  an  organization  through  which  they  could 
control  such  operations.  They  created  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Army,  whose  units  would  be  stationed  and  controlled  by  Egypt, 
Syria,  and  Iraq.  Egypt  exercised  control  of  the  PLO  until  1969 
when  Yasir  Arafat,  the  leader  of  the  guerrilla  organization  called 
Al  Fatah,  took  control  of  the  organization  from  Ahmad  Shukairy, 
the  choice  of  the  Arab  League  governments. 

The  War  with  Israel,  1967 

During  the  mid-1960s,  tensions  between  the  Arab  states  and  Is- 
rael increased.  In  November  1966,  Egypt  and  Syria  signed  a  five- 
year  defense  pact.  In  the  same  month,  Israeli  forces  crossed  into 
the  West  Bank  of  Jordan  to  destroy  the  village  of  As  Samu  in  retali- 
ation for  increasing  Palestinian  guerrilla  raids.  In  1967  Israeli  lead- 
ers repeatedly  threatened  to  invade  Syria  and  overthrow  the  Syrian 
government  if  guerrilla  raids  across  the  Syrian  border  did  not  stop. 
In  April  1967,  there  were  serious  Israeli- Syrian  air  clashes  over 
Syrian  air  space.  Israeli  prime  minister  Levi  Eshkol  warned  that 
Damascus  could  be  occupied  if  necessary. 

The  Soviet  Union  warned  Egypt  that  they  had  information  that 
the  Israelis  had  mobilized  two  brigades  on  the  frontier.  Nasser  react- 
ed by  sending  troops  to  the  Israeli  border,  and  Syria  followed  suit. 
The  claim  has  been  made  that  Nasser  believed  that  the  presence 
of  Egyptian  troops  would  deter  the  Israelis  from  attacking  Syria. 
Israel  responded  by  deploying  its  own  forces.  It  was  clear  that  it 
would  be  difficult  for  Egypt  to  come  to  Syria's  aid  according  to 
the  terms  of  their  agreement  because  of  an  obstacle — the  presence 


68 


Historical  Setting 


of  UNEF  troops,  stationed  on  the  Egyptian  side  of  the  Egyptian- 
Israeli  border  since  the  1956  War.  A  great  deal  of  pressure  to  re- 
move the  troops  had  been  put  on  Nasser  by  Arab  critics  such  as 
King  Hussein  of  Jordan  and  Crown  Prince  Faisal  (Faisal  ibn  Abdul 
Aziz  Al  Saud)  of  Saudi  Arabia,  who  accused  him  of  not  living 
up  to  his  responsibilities  as  an  Arab  leader.  He  was  accused  of  fail- 
ing to  match  words  with  deeds  and  of  hiding  behind  the  UN  shield 
rather  than  thinking  about  liberating  the  Palestinian  homeland. 

On  May  16,  Nasser  made  the  move  that  led  inexorably  to  war. 
He  asked  the  UN  to  remove  the  UNEF  from  the  Egyptian-Israeli 
frontier  in  Sinai.  Once  the  UNEF  was  withdrawn,  Nasser  declared 
he  was  closing  the  Strait  of  Tiran,  which  connects  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba 
and  the  Red  Sea,  to  Israeli  shipping — a  threat  he  never  carried 
out.  Israel,  for  its  part,  regarded  the  withdrawal  of  the  UNEF  troops 
as  a  hostile  act  and  the  closing  of  the  strait  as  a  casus  belli.  Mean- 
while, Jordan  and  Iraq  signed  defense  agreements  with  Egypt. 

Field  Marshal  Amir,  deputy  supreme  commander  of  the  armed 
forces,  and  Shams  ad  Din  Badran,  the  minister  of  defense,  urged 
Nasser  to  strike  first,  saying  the  Egyptian  army  was  strong  enough 
to  win.  The  Soviet  Union  and  the  United  States  urged  Nasser  not 
to  go  to  war.  Nasser  publicly  denied  that  Egypt  would  strike  first 
and  spoke  of  a  negotiated  peace  if  the  Palestinians  were  allowed 
to  return  to  their  homeland  and  of  a  possible  compromise  over  the 
Strait  of  Tiran. 

On  the  morning  of  June  5,  Israel  launched  a  full-scale  attack 
on  Egypt,  Jordan,  and  Syria.  In  three  hours,  at  least  300  of  Egypt's 
430  combat  aircraft  were  destroyed,  many  on  the  ground  as  the 
pilots  did  not  have  time  to  take  off.  Israeli  ground  forces  started 
a  lightning  strike  into  Sinai  and  by  June  8  had  reached  the  Suez 
Canal  (see  The  June  1967  War,  ch.  5).  On  that  day,  both  sides 
accepted  a  UN  Security  Council  call  for  a  cease-fire.  By  June  11, 
the  Arab  defeat  was  total;  Israel  now  held  all  of  historic  Palestine, 
including  the  Old  City  of  Jerusalem,  the  West  Bank,  and  the  Gaza 
Strip,  as  well  as  Sinai  and  part  of  the  Golan  Heights  of  Syria. 

The  Aftermath  of  the  War 

Internal  Relations 

Egypt's  losses  in  the  war  were  enormous:  approximately  10,000 
soldiers  and  1,500  officers  killed,  5,000  soldiers  and  500  officers 
captured,  80  percent  of  military  equipment  destroyed.  Sinai  was 
under  Israeli  control,  and  the  Suez  Canal  was  blocked  and  closed 
to  shipping. 


69 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


On  June  9,  Nasser  spoke  on  television  and  took  full  responsibil- 
ity for  the  debacle.  He  resigned  as  president,  but  the  Egyptian  peo- 
ple poured  into  the  streets  to  demonstrate  their  support  for  him. 
The  cabinet  and  the  National  Assembly  voted  not  to  accept  the 
resignation,  and  Nasser  withdrew  it. 

Soon  after  the  cease-fire,  there  was  a  broad  shake-up  in  the  mili- 
tary and  the  government.  Field  Marshal  Amir  and  Minister  of 
Defense  Badran,  who  had  been  chosen  for  the  post  by  Amir,  were 
forced  to  resign.  General  Muhammad  Fawzi  became  commander 
in  chief,  and  Nasser  retained  the  position  of  supreme  commander. 
On  June  19,  Nasser  enlarged  his  political  powers  by  assuming  the 
role  of  prime  minister.  He  named  a  twenty-eight-member  cabinet 
and  took  control  of  the  ASU  as  secretary  general.  Ali  Sabri,  the 
vice  president  and  secretary  general  of  the  ASU  until  that  time, 
was  named  deputy  prime  minister  in  the  new  cabinet. 

On  August  25,  1967,  Amir  and  fifty  other  high-ranking  mili- 
tary and  civilian  officials  were  arrested  and  accused  of  plotting  to 
overthrow  Nasser.  Approximately  two  weeks  later,  the  government 
announced  that  Amir,  who  was  once  considered  Nasser's  closest 
associate  among  the  Free  Officers,  had  committed  suicide  by  tak- 
ing poison  while  under  house  arrest. 

In  March  1968,  widespread  demonstrations  by  students  and  work- 
ers broke  out  in  Cairo,  Alexandria,  and  the  industrial  town  of 
Hulwan.  The  demonstrations  were  provoked  by  the  decision  of  a 
military  tribunal  that  convicted  two  air  force  commanders  of  negli- 
gence in  the  June  1967  War  and  acquitted  two  others.  The  demon- 
strators demanded  stiffer  sentences  for  the  four  officers.  A  sit-in 
by  students  at  Cairo  University  ended  only  when  the  government 
promised  to  retry  the  officers  and  released  arrested  demonstrators. 

Although  the  decision  of  the  military  tribunal  was  the  immedi- 
ate cause  of  the  demonstrations,  the  underlying  cause  was  popu- 
lar frustration  with  the  government  repression  over  the  preceding 
sixteen  years  and  the  lack  of  popular  participation  in  the  govern- 
ment. Nasser  declared  his  desire  to  satisfy  popular  demands  and 
promised  to  present  a  plan  of  action.  The  new  plan,  approved  by 
a  referendum  in  May,  called  for  a  new  constitution  that  would  re- 
form the  ASU,  grant  Parliament  control  over  the  government,  and 
allow  greater  personal  and  press  freedom.  Popular  elections  were 
to  be  held  for  the  National  Assembly. 

Nasser's  reform  of  the  existing  political  system  was  instituted 
through  the  formulation  of  new  laws  and  the  election  of  new  mem- 
bers to  all  of  the  organs  of  the  ASU.  This  initial  phase  of  his  plan 
was  completed  during  October  1968,  with  the  election  of  the  reor- 
ganized Supreme  Executive  Committee  (SEC)  of  the  ASU.  Only 


70 


Historical  Setting 


eight  people  received  the  required  majority  of  votes,  and  the  elec- 
tion of  the  remaining  two  members  was  postponed.  The  SEC  or- 
ganized itself  into  five  permanent  committees:  political  affairs, 
chaired  by  Anwar  as  Sadat;  administration,  chaired  by  Ali  Sabri; 
internal  affairs,  chaired  by  Abdul  Muhsin  Abu  an  Nur;  economic 
development,  chaired  by  Muhammad  Labib  Shuqayr;  and  culture 
and  information,  chaired  by  Diya  Muhammad  Daud.  Nasser  head- 
ed the  SEC,  and  its  three  remaining  members  were  Husayn  ash 
Shafii,  General  Muhammad  Fawzi,  and  Kamal  Ramzi  Stinu. 

This  reorganization  proved  unsatisfactory  to  those  who  had  hoped 
for  an  expansion  of  freedom  and  democracy.  Thus,  in  November, 
demonstrations  broke  out  again  with  cries  of  "Nasser  resign" 
reported.  Several  demonstrators  were  killed  or  wounded  in  clash- 
es with  the  police.  Universities  and  secondary  schools  were  again 
closed.  The  demonstrators  were  expressing  popular  frustration  over 
the  failure  of  the  government  to  implement  the  program  approved 
by  the  referendum.  Nasser  apparently  was  unwilling  or  unable  to 
widen  popular  participation  in  the  government. 

External  Relations 

The  first  move  of  the  Arabs  after  the  June  1967  War  was  to  hold 
a  summit  conference  in  Khartoum  in  September  1967.  At  that  meet- 
ing, Nasser  and  Faisal  came  to  an  agreement:  Nasser  would  stop 
his  attempts  to  destabilize  the  Saudi  regime,  and  in  return  Saudi 
Arabia  would  give  Egypt  the  financial  aid  needed  to  rebuild  its  army 
and  retake  the  territory  lost  to  Israel.  At  the  conference,  the  Arab 
leaders  were  united  in  their  opposition  to  Israel  and  proclaimed 
what  became  known  as  "the  three  no's"  of  the  Khartoum  sum- 
mit: no  peace  with  Israel,  no  negotiations,  no  recognition. 

At  the  UN  in  November,  the  Security  Council  unanimously 
adopted  Resolution  242,  which  provided  a  framework  for  settle- 
ment of  the  June  1967  War.  This  resolution,  still  not  implement- 
ed in  1990,  declared  that  the  acquisition  of  territory  by  force  was 
unacceptable.  The  resolution  called  for  Israel  to  withdraw  "from 
territories  occupied  in  the  recent  conflict,"  for  the  termination  of 
the  state  of  belligerency,  and  for  the  right  of  all  states  in  the  area 
"to  live  in  peace  within  secure  and  recognized  boundaries."  Free- 
dom of  navigation  through  international  waterways  in  the  area  was 
to  be  guaranteed,  and  a  just  settlement  of  the  "refugee"  problem 
was  to  be  attained. 

Gunnar  Jarring,  a  Swedish  diplomat  at  the  UN,  started  a  series 
of  journeys  in  the  Middle  East  in  an  attempt  to  bring  both  sides 
together.  In  May  1968,  Egypt  agreed  to  accept  the  resolution  if 
Israel  agreed  to  evacuate  all  occupied  areas.  By  accepting  the 


71 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

resolution,  Egypt  for  the  first  time  implicitly  recognized  the  exis- 
tence— and  the  right  to  continued  existence — of  Israel.  In  return 
Egypt  gained  a  UN  commitment  to  the  restoration  of  Sinai.  The 
PLO  rejected  the  resolution  because  it  referred  to  the  Palestinians 
only  as  "refugees"  and  thus  appeared  to  dismiss  Palestinian  demands 
for  self-determination  and  national  rights.  Syria  characterized  the 
plan  as  a  ''sellout"  of  Arafat  and  the  PLO.  The  disagreement  on 
that  issue  was  compounded  when,  throughout  1969,  tensions  grew 
between  the  Lebanese  government  and  Palestinian  groups  within 
Lebanon's  borders,  and  serious  clashes  broke  out.  Syria  condemned 
Lebanese  action.  Nasser  invited  both  parties  to  Cairo,  and  an  agree- 
ment was  negotiated  in  November  1969  to  end  the  hostilities. 

Israel  rejected  Jarring' s  mission  as  meaningless,  insisting  that 
negotiations  should  precede  any  evacuation.  Israel  also  objected 
to  Nasser's  support  for  the  PLO,  whose  objective  at  the  time  was 
the  establishment  of  a  secular  state  in  all  "liberated"  Palestinian 
territory.  Nasser  replied  that  if  Israel  refused  to  support  Resolu- 
tion 242  while  Egypt  accepted  it,  he  had  no  choice  "but  to  sup- 
port courageous  resistance  fighters  who  want  to  liberate  their  land. ' ' 

The  mutual  frustration  led  to  the  outbreak  of  the  so-called  War 
of  Attrition  from  March  1969  to  August  1970.  Hoping  to  use 
Egypt's  superiority  in  artillery  to  cause  unacceptable  casualties  to 
Israeli  forces  dug  in  along  the  canal,  Nasser  ordered  Egyptian  guns 
to  begin  a  steady  pounding  of  the  Israeli  positions.  Israel  respond- 
ed by  constructing  the  Bar- Lev  Line,  a  series  of  fortifications  along 
the  canal,  and  by  using  the  one  weapon  in  which  it  had  absolute 
superiority,  its  air  force,  to  silence  the  Egyptian  artillery.  Having 
accomplished  this  with  minimal  aircraft  losses,  Israel  embarked  on 
a  series  of  deep  penetration  raids  into  the  heartland  of  Egypt  with 
its  newly  acquired  American-made  Phantom  bombers.  By  Janu- 
ary 1970,  Israeli  planes  were  flying  at  will  over  eastern  Egypt. 

To  remedy  this  politically  intolerable  situation,  Nasser  flew  to 
Moscow  and  asked  the  Soviet  Union  to  establish  an  air  defense 
system  manned  by  Soviet  pilots  and  antiaircraft  forces  protected 
by  Soviet  troops.  To  obtain  Soviet  aid,  Nasser  had  to  grant  the 
Soviet  Union  control  over  a  number  of  Egyptian  airfields  as  well 
as  operational  control  over  a  large  portion  of  the  Egyptian  army. 
The  Soviet  Union  sent  between  10,000  and  15,000  Soviet  troops 
and  advisers  to  Egypt,  and  Soviet  pilots  flew  combat  missions.  A 
screen  of  surface-to-air  missiles  (SAMs)  was  set  up,  and  Soviet  pi- 
lots joined  Egyptian  ones  in  patrolling  Egyptian  air  space. 

After  the  June  1967  War,  the  Soviet  Union  poured  aid  into  Egypt 
to  replace  lost  military  equipment  and  rebuild  the  armed  forces. 
However,  by  sending  troops  and  advisers  to  Egypt  and  pilots  to 


72 


Historical  Setting 


fly  combat  missions,  the  Soviet  Union  took  a  calculated  risk  of  pos- 
sible superpower  confrontation  over  the  Middle  East.  This  added 
risk  occurred  because  the  United  States  under  the  Nixon  adminis- 
tration was  supplying  Israel  with  military  aid  and  regarded  Israel 
as  a  bulwark  against  Soviet  expansion  in  the  area. 

Many  plans  for  peace  were  formulated  and  rejected,  but  on  June 
25,  1970,  the  Rogers  Plan,  put  forth  by  United  States  secretary 
of  state  William  Rogers,  started  a  dialogue  that  eventually  led  to 
the  long-awaited  cease-fire  in  the  War  of  Attrition  along  the  Suez 
Canal.  Basically,  the  plan  was  a  modification  of  Resolution  242. 
Shortly  after  the  plan  was  announced,  from  June  29  to  July  17, 
Nasser  visited  Moscow.  Discussions  were  held  on  the  Rogers  Plan, 
a  newly  formed  Moscow  peace  plan,  and  the  future  of  Soviet- 
Egyptian  relations. 

After  his  return  to  Egypt,  Nasser  declared  a  major  policy  shift 
based  on  his  assertion  that  Egypt  must  be  respected  for  doing  what 
it  could  on  its  own  because  the  other  Arab  states  were  not  prepared 
to  wage  war  with  Israel.  This  policy  shift  set  the  stage  for  Egypt's 
acceptance  of  the  Rogers  Plan  in  July,  to  the  surprise  of  Israel  and 
the  consternation  of  many  Arab  states  that  feared  Egypt  would  sign 
a  separate  peace  agreement  with  Israel.  Jordan,  however,  followed 
Egypt's  lead  and  accepted  the  plan.  Israel  accepted  the  plan  in 
August. 

Egyptian-Israeli  fighting  halted  along  the  Suez  Canal  on  Au- 
gust 7,  1970,  in  accordance  with  the  first  phase  of  the  plan,  and 
a  ninety-day  truce  began.  Palestinian  guerrilla  groups  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  cease-fire  continued  to  engage  in  small-scale  actions  on 
the  Jordanian-Syrian-Lebanese  fronts. 

PLO  leader  Arafat's  open  criticism  of  the  parties  accepting  the 
truce  led  Nasser  to  close  down  the  Voice  of  Palestine  radio  station 
in  Cairo  and  to  terminate  most  of  the  material  support  Egypt 
provided  to  the  PLO.  In  addition,  many  PLO  activists  were  ex- 
pelled from  Egypt.  Within  a  month,  the  guerrillas  had  effectively 
undermined  progress  on  the  Rogers  Plan  by  a  series  of  acts,  in- 
cluding the  hijacking  of  five  international  airplanes  in  early  Sep- 
tember 1970,  thus  triggering  the  Jordanian  civil  war  that  month. 

King  Hussein  launched  a  major  Jordanian  military  drive  against 
the  Jordan-based  Palestinian  guerrilla  groups  on  September  14, 
partly  out  of  fear  that  their  attacks  on  Israel  would  sabotage  the 
truce,  but  primarily  because  the  guerrillas  were  becoming  power- 
ful enough  to  challenge  his  government.  Nasser's  position  on  these 
events,  as  in  the  preceding  year  when  hostilities  broke  out  between 
the  Palestinians  and  Lebanese,  was  based  on  a  desire  to  stop  any 
form  of  intra- Arab  conflict.  He  was  extremely  angry  when  Syria 


73 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

sent  an  armored  force  into  Jordan  to  support  the  guerrillas.  The 
United  States  and  Israel  offered  assistance  to  the  beleaguered  King 
Hussein. 

Nasser  called  for  a  meeting  in  Cairo  to  stop  the  civil  war.  The 
Arab  summit  finally  came  about  on  September  26  after  bloody  mili- 
tary engagements  in  which  Jordan  decisively  repulsed  the  Syrians 
and  seemed  to  be  defeating  the  PLO,  although  PLO  forces  were 
not  pushed  out  of  Jordan  until  July  1971.  On  September  27,  1970, 
Hussein  and  Arafat  agreed  to  a  fourteen-point  cease-fire  under 
Nasser's  mediation,  officially  ending  the  war. 

The  effort  by  Nasser  to  bring  about  this  unlikely  reconciliation 
between  two  bitter  enemies  was  enormous.  He  was  by  then  a  tired 
and  sick  man.  He  had  been  suffering  from  diabetes  since  1958  and 
from  arteriosclerosis  of  the  leg.  He  had  treatment  in  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion, and  his  doctors  had  warned  him  to  avoid  physical  and  emo- 
tional strain.  He  had  ignored  their  advice  and  suffered  a  heart  attack 
in  September  1969.  The  strain  of  the  summit  was  too  much.  He 
felt  ill  at  the  airport  on  September  28  when  bidding  good-bye  to 
Arab  leaders  and  returned  home  to  bed.  He  had  another  heart  at- 
tack and  died  that  afternoon. 

Nasser's  Legacy 

When  news  of  Nasser's  death  was  announced,  Egyptians  took 
to  the  streets  by  the  tens  of  thousands  to  express  shock  and  grief 
at  the  death  of  their  leader.  In  spite  of  the  doubts  that  many  Egyp- 
tians may  have  felt  about  the  path  on  which  Nasser  had  taken  Egypt, 
the  sense  of  loss  was  overwhelming,  and  there  was  great  uncer- 
tainty about  the  future.  It  has  been  argued  that  Nasser's  rule  was 
not  a  great  success;  that  there  were  almost  as  many  landless  peasants 
in  1970  as  when  the  Free  Officers  took  over  in  1952  because  it  was 
the  wealthier  peasants  who  had  profited  and  still  controlled  the  vil- 
lages; that  the  army  had  done  no  better  in  1967  after  fifteen  years 
of  the  revolution  than  it  had  done  in  1948  or  1956;  that  nationali- 
zation had  caused  inefficiency  and  corruption;  and,  finally,  that 
repression  was  so  pervasive  that  Egyptians  were  less  free  than  they 
had  been  in  the  past. 

It  was  under  Nasser  that  Egypt  finally  succeeded  in  ridding  it- 
self of  the  last  vestiges  of  British  imperialism;  that  Egypt  attempt- 
ed to  steer  a  middle  course  between  the  Western  countries  and  the 
Soviet  Union  and  its  allies  and  in  so  doing  became  a  founder  of 
the  Nonaligned  Movement  that  exists  to  this  day;  that  Egypt  moved 
out  of  the  isolation  the  British  had  imposed  on  the  country  and 
assumed  a  leadership  position  in  the  Arab  world;  and  that  Egypt 


74 


Archaeological  expedition  of  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  1908 
Courtesy  American  Museum  of  Natural  History 

became  the  "beating  heart"  of  pan-Arabism  and  the  symbol  of 
renewed  Arab  pride. 

Internally,  Nasser  destroyed  the  political  and  economic  power 
of  the  old  feudal  landowning  class.  Education  and  employment  op- 
portunities were  made  available  to  all  Egyptians  regardless  of  class 
or  sex.  Women  were  encouraged  to  get  an  education  and  go  to 
work  as  part  of  the  national  struggle  for  economic  progress  and 
development.  After  the  revolution,  women  were  at  last  granted  the 
right  to  vote.  Nasser  emphasized  social  programs  to  improve  the 
living  and  working  conditions  of  the  peasants  and  workers,  such 
as  the  electrification  of  villages,  worker  housing,  minimum  wage 
laws,  decreased  working  hours,  and  worker  participation  in  manage- 
ment. Industrialization  intensified,  and  the  country  became  less 
dependent  on  the  export  of  cotton.  The  economy  grew  at  accepta- 
ble rates  in  spite  of  some  problems.  After  the  June  1967  War, 
however,  the  military  expenditures  began  to  absorb  about  25  per- 
cent of  Egypt's  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary).  Also, 
the  population  increase  that  had  begun  in  the  1940s  began  to  over- 
take the  economic  advances. 

It  is  true  that  Nasser  never  really  opened  up  his  rule  to  popular 
participation.  He  once  admitted  that  he  had  become  so  used  to 
conspiracy,  by  necessity,  that  he  tended  to  see  a  conspiracy  in 


75 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


everything,  a  view  that  prevented  him  from  conducting  an  open 
rule.  He  wanted  to  establish  a  basis  of  support  for  his  regime  but 
one  that  would  not  require  the  regime  to  give  significant  power 
to  the  public  (see  The  Presidency,  ch.  4).  He  felt  that  an  ideology 
such  as  socialism  might  accomplish  this,  but  at  the  same  time  he 
feared  that  the  commitment  would  be  to  the  ideology  and  not  to 
him.  Thus,  when  Nasser  died  in  1970  he  left  behind  an  imperfect 
and  unfinished  revolution. 

Sadat  Takes  Over,  1970-73 

When  Nasser  died,  it  became  apparent  that  his  successor,  An- 
war as  Sadat,  did  not  intend  to  be  another  Nasser.  As  Sadat's  rule 
progressed,  it  became  clear  that  his  priority  was  solving  Egypt's 
pressing  economic  problems  by  encouraging  Western  financial  in- 
vestment. Sadat  realized,  however,  that  Western  investment  would 
not  be  forthcoming  until  there  was  peace  between  Egypt  and  Is- 
rael, Soviet  influence  was  eliminated,  and  the  climate  became  more 
favorable  to  Western  capitalism. 

Sadat  was  a  Free  Officer  who  had  served  as  secretary  of  the  Is- 
lamic Congress  and  of  the  National  Union  and  as  speaker  of  the 
National  Assembly.  In  1969  he  was  appointed  vice  president  and 
so  became  acting  president  on  Nasser's  death.  On  October  3,  1970, 
the  ASU  recommended  that  Sadat  be  nominated  to  succeed  Nas- 
ser as  president.  An  election  was  held  on  October  15,  and  Sadat 
won  more  than  90  percent  of  the  vote.  Almost  no  one  expected 
that  Sadat  would  be  able  to  hold  power  for  long.  Sadat  was  consid- 
ered a  rather  weak  and  colorless  figure  who  would  last  only  as  long 
as  it  would  take  for  the  political  maneuvering  to  result  in  the  emer- 
gence of  Nasser's  true  successor.  Sadat  surprised  everyone  with 
a  series  of  astute  political  moves  by  which  he  was  able  to  retain 
the  presidency  and  emerge  as  a  leader  in  his  own  right. 

Sadat  moved  very  cautiously  at  first  and  pledged  to  continue 
Nasser's  policies.  On  May  2,  1971,  however,  Sadat  dismissed  Ali 
Sabri,  the  vice  president  and  head  of  the  ASU.  On  May  15,  Sadat 
announced  that  Sabri  and  more  than  100  others  had  been  arrested 
and  charged  with  plotting  a  coup  against  the  government.  Also 
charged  in  the  plot  were  Sharawy  Jumaa,  minister  of  interior  and 
head  of  internal  security,  and  Muhammad  Fawzi,  minister  of  war. 
These  men  were  considered  to  be  left-leaning  and  pro-Soviet.  They 
were  arrested  with  other  important  figures  of  the  Nasser  era.  They 
had  all  resigned  their  positions  on  May  13,  apparently  in  prepara- 
tion for  a  takeover.  But  anticipating  their  moves,  Sadat  outflanked 
them  and  was  then  able  to  assert  himself  and  appoint  his  own  fol- 
lowers, rather  than  Free  Officer  colleagues,  to  leadership  positions. 


76 


Historical  Setting 


This  action,  which  became  known  as  the  Corrective  Revolution, 
began  Sadat's  move  away  from  Nasser's  policies.  He  announced 
new  elections  and  a  complete  reorganization  of  the  ASU.  The  armed 
forces  pledged  their  support  for  Sadat  on  May  15.  There  were  also 
some  popular  demonstrations  in  the  streets  in  support  of  Sadat's 
moves. 

Sadat  signed  the  first  Soviet-Egyptian  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 
Cooperation  on  May  27,  1971.  He  later  explained  that  he  did  it 
to  allay  Soviet  fears  provoked  by  his  ouster  of  Ali  Sabri  and  the 
others  and  to  speed  up  deliveries  of  Soviet  military  supplies.  Even 
as  he  was  preparing  to  break  the  stalemate  with  Israel,  however, 
he  was  already  thinking  of  expelling  the  Soviet  advisers. 

October  1973  War 

On  February  4,  1971,  Sadat  announced  a  new  peace  initiative 
that  contained  a  significant  concession:  he  was  willing  to  accept 
an  interim  agreement  with  Israel  in  return  for  a  partial  Israeli  with- 
drawal from  Sinai.  A  timetable  would  then  be  set  for  Israel's  with- 
drawal from  the  rest  of  the  occupied  territories  in  accordance  with 
UN  Resolution  242.  Egypt  would  reopen  the  canal,  restore  diplo- 
matic relations  with  the  United  States,  which  had  been  broken  af- 
ter the  June  1967  War,  and  sign  a  peace  agreement  with  Israel 
through  Jarring.  Sadat's  initiative  fell  on  deaf  ears  in  Tel  Aviv  and 
in  Washington,  which  was  not  disposed  to  assisting  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion's major  client  in  the  region.  Disillusioned  by  Israel's  failure 
to  respond  to  his  initiative,  Sadat  rejected  the  Rogers  Plan  and  the 
cease-fire. 

In  May  1972,  President  Nixon  met  Soviet  president  Leonid 
Brezhnev,  and  Sadat  was  convinced  that  the  two  superpowers  would 
try  to  prevent  a  new  war  in  the  Middle  East  and  that  a  position 
of  stalemate — no  peace,  no  war — had  been  reached.  For  Sadat  this 
position  was  intolerable.  The  June  1967  War  had  been  a  humiliating 
defeat  for  the  Arabs.  Without  a  military  victory,  any  Arab  leader 
who  agreed  to  negotiate  directly  with  Israel  would  do  so  from  a 
position  of  extreme  weakness.  At  the  same  time,  the  United  States 
and  the  Soviet  Union  were  urging  restraint  and  caution.  However, 
the  United  States  refused  to  put  pressure  on  Israel  to  make  con- 
cessions, and  the  Soviet  Union,  which  had  broken  off  diplomatic 
relations  with  Israel  as  a  result  of  the  June  1967  War,  had  no  in- 
fluence over  Israel.  Internally,  the  Egyptian  economy  was  being 
steadily  drained  by  the  confrontation  with  Israel.  Economic  prob- 
lems were  becoming  more  serious  because  of  the  tremendous 
amount  of  resources  directed  toward  building  up  the  military  since 
the  June  1967  War,  and  it  was  clear  that  Sadat  would  have  to 


77 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


demonstrate  some  results  from  this  policy.  In  the  last  half  of  1972, 
there  were  large-scale  student  riots,  and  some  journalists  came  out 
publicly  in  support  of  the  students.  Thus,  Sadat  felt  under  increasing 
pressure  to  go  to  war  against  Israel  as  the  only  way  to  regain  the 
lost  territories. 

In  retrospect,  there  were  indications  that  Egypt  was  preparing 
for  war.  On  July  17,  1972,  Sadat  expelled  the  15,000  Soviet  ad- 
visers from  Egypt.  Sadat  later  explained  that  the  expulsion  freed 
him  to  pursue  his  preparations  for  war.  On  December  28,  1972, 
Sadat  created  "permanent  war  committees."  On  March  26,  1973, 
Sadat  assumed  the  additional  tide  of  prime  minister  and  formed 
a  new  government  designed  to  continue  preparations  for  a  con- 
frontation with  Israel. 

Then  on  October  6,  1973,  Egyptian  forces  launched  a  success- 
ful surprise  attack  across  the  Suez  Canal  (see  War  of  Attrition  and 
the  October  1973  War,  ch.  5).  The  Syrians  carried  out  an  attack 
on  Israel  at  the  same  time.  For  the  Arabs,  it  was  the  fasting  month 
of  Ramadan,  and  for  Israel  it  was  Yom  Kippur.  The  crossing  of 
the  canal,  an  astounding  feat  of  technology  and  military  acumen, 
took  only  four  hours  to  complete.  The  crossing  was  code-named 
Operation  Badr  after  the  first  victory  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad, 
which  culminated  in  his  entry  into  Mecca  in  630. 

On  October  17  the  Arab  oil  producers  announced  a  program 
of  reprisals  against  the  Western  backers  of  Israel:  a  5  percent  cut- 
back in  output,  followed  by  further  such  reductions  every  month 
until  Israel  had  withdrawn  from  all  the  occupied  territories  and 
the  rights  of  the  Palestinians  had  been  restored.  The  next  day,  Presi- 
dent Nixon  formally  asked  Congress  for  US$2.2  billion  in  emer- 
gency funds  to  finance  the  massive  airlift  of  arms  to  Israel  that  was 
already  under  way.  The  following  day,  King  Faisal  of  Saudi  Ara- 
bia decreed  an  immediate  10  percent  cutback  in  Saudi  oil  and,  five 
days  after  that,  the  complete  suspension  of  all  shipments  to  the  Unit- 
ed States. 

Israel  was  shocked  and  unprepared  for  the  war.  After  the  initial 
confusion  and  near  panic  in  Israel  followed  by  the  infusion  of  United 
States  weaponry,  Israel  was  able  to  counterattack  and  succeeded 
in  crossing  to  the  west  bank  of  the  canal  and  surrounding  the  Egyp- 
tian Third  Army.  With  the  Third  Army  surrounded,  Sadat  ap- 
pealed to  the  Soviet  Union  for  help.  Soviet  prime  minister  Alexei 
Kosygin  believed  he  had  obtained  the  American  acceptance  of  a 
cease-fire  through  Henry  Kissinger,  United  States  secretary  of  state. 
On  October  22,  the  UN  Security  Council  passed  Resolution  338, 
calling  for  a  cease-fire  by  all  parties  within  twelve  hours  in  the  po- 
sitions they  occupied.  Egypt  accepted  the  cease-fire,  but  Israel, 


78 


Historical  Setting 


alleging  Egyptian  violations  of  the  cease-fire,  completed  the  encir- 
clement of  the  Third  Army  to  the  east  of  the  canal.  By  nightfall 
on  October  23,  the  road  to  Suez,  the  Third  Army's  only  supply 
line,  was  in  Israeli  hands,  cutting  off  two  divisions  and  45,000  men. 

The  Soviet  Union  were  furious,  believing  it  had  been  double- 
crossed  by  the  United  States.  On  October  24,  the  Soviet  ambas- 
sador handed  Kissinger  a  note  from  Brezhnev  threatening  that  if 
the  United  States  were  not  prepared  to  join  in  sending  forces  to 
impose  the  cease-fire,  the  Soviet  Union  would  act  alone.  The  United 
States  took  the  threat  very  seriously  and  responded  by  ordering 
a  grade-three  nuclear  alert,  the  first  of  its  kind  since  President  John 
F.  Kennedy's  order  during  the  Cuban  missile  crisis  of  1962.  The 
threat  came  to  naught,  however,  because  a  UN  emergency  force 
arrived  in  the  battle  zone  to  police  the  cease-fire. 

Meanwhile,  Syria  felt  betrayed  by  Egypt  because  Sadat  did  not 
inform  his  ally  of  his  decision  to  accept  the  cease-fire.  Two  days 
after  Sadat,  President  Hafiz  al  Assad  of  Syria  accepted  the  cease- 
fire as  well. 

Neither  side  had  won  a  clear-cut  victory,  but  for  the  Egyptians, 
it  was  a  victory  nonetheless.  The  Arabs  had  taken  the  initiative 
in  attacking  the  Israelis  and  had  shown  that  Israel  was  not  invinci- 
ble. The  stinging  defeats  of  1948,  1956,  and  1967  seemed  to  be 
avenged. 

The  Israelis,  however,  paid  a  heavy  price  for  merely  holding  their 
attackers  to  an  inconclusive  draw.  In  three  weeks,  they  lost  2,523 
personnel,  two  and  a  half  times  as  many,  proportionally  speak- 
ing, as  the  United  States  lost  in  the  ten  years  of  the  Vietnam  war. 
The  war  had  a  devastating  effect  on  Israel's  economy  and  was  fol- 
lowed by  savage  austerity  measures  and  drastically  reduced  living 
standards.  For  the  first  time,  Israelis  witnessed  the  humiliating  spec- 
tacle of  Israeli  prisoners,  heads  bowed,  paraded  on  Arab  televi- 
sion. Also,  for  the  first  time  captured  Israeli  hardware  was  exhibited 
in  Cairo. 

In  Egypt  the  casualties  included  about  8,000  killed.  The  effect 
of  the  war  on  the  morale  of  the  Egyptian  population,  however,  was 
immense.  Sadat's  prestige  grew  tremendously.  The  war,  along  with 
the  political  moves  Sadat  had  made  previously,  meant  that  he  was 
totally  in  control  and  able  to  implement  the  programs  he  wanted. 
He  was  the  hero  of  the  day. 

Negotiations  toward  a  permanent  cease-fire  began  in  Decem- 
ber 1973.  In  January  1974,  Kissinger  began  his  shuttle  diplomacy 
between  Egypt  and  Israel.  On  January  18,  the  first  disengagement 
agreement  was  signed  separately  by  Sadat  and  Golda  Meir.  A  sec- 
ond disengagement  agreement  was  signed  on  September  1,  1975. 


79 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

The  agreement  provided  for  a  partial  Israeli  withdrawal  in  Sinai 
and  limited  the  number  of  troops  and  kinds  of  weapons  Egypt  could 
have  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  canal.  Israel  agreed  to  withdraw 
from  the  Abu  Rudays  oil  fields  in  western  Sinai,  which  produced 
small  but  important  revenue  for  Egypt.  Egypt  also  agreed  not  to 
use  force  to  achieve  its  aims,  a  concession  that  in  effect  made  Egypt 
a  nonbelligerent  in  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict.  As  the  price  for  its 
agreement,  Israel  extracted  important  concessions  from  the  Unit- 
ed States.  Kissinger's  secret  promises  to  Israel  included  meeting 
Israel's  military  needs  in  any  emergency,  preserving  Israel's  arms 
superiority  by  providing  the  most  advanced  and  sophisticated 
weaponry,  and  pledging  not  to  recognize  or  to  negotiate  with  the 
PLO. 

On  June  5,  1975,  the  Suez  Canal  was  reopened.  This  was  a  great 
moment  for  Sadat,  not  only  politically  but  economically,  because 
the  canal  provided  Egypt  with  considerable  revenues  (see  Suez 
Canal,  ch.  3). 

Political  Developments,  1971-78 

On  September  11,  1971,  a  new  constitution  was  presented  by 
Sadat  and  approved  by  the  electorate.  The  previous  constitution 
had  been  issued  as  "provisional"  in  1964.  The  Constitution  of  1971 
provides  additional  guarantees  against  arbitrary  arrest,  seizure  of 
property,  and  other  Nasser-era  abuses.  The  responsibility  of  the 
People's  Assembly,  which  replaced  the  National  Assembly,  was 
widened,  but  the  president  clearly  retained  dominant  authority. 
Sadat  dissolved  the  old  legislature  on  September  8,  1971,  and  on 
September  19,  he  formed  a  new  cabinet. 

The  Constitution  provides  that  the  president  may  issue  binding 
decrees,  which  was  essentially  the  way  Sadat  ruled  the  country. 
After  ridding  himself  of  Ali  Sabri  and  his  allies,  Sadat  conducted 
his  presidency  without  the  constraints  that  Nasser  had  faced.  Sadat's 
government  came  to  be  composed  of  his  own  handpicked  follow- 
ers, not  of  colleagues  whose  opinions  he  had  to  consider.  Especial- 
ly during  the  euphoria  following  the  October  1973  War,  Sadat  was 
able  to  consolidate  the  power  of  the  presidency  in  a  way  that  Nas- 
ser never  had  (see  The  Presidency,  ch.  4). 

Nevertheless,  Sadat  attempted  to  allow  a  certain  degree  of  po- 
litical expression.  Competitive,  but  not  totally  free,  elections  were 
held  for  the  People's  Assembly  on  October  27,  1971 .  In  1975  Sadat 
permitted  the  establishment  of  three  groupings  in  the  ASU  to 
express  the  opinions  of  the  left,  the  right,  and  the  center  of  the 
regime.  By  1976  the  three  platforms  were  permitted,  within  es- 
tablished guidelines,  to  act  as  separate  political  entities,  but  each 


80 


Historical  Setting 


group  needed  to  elect  a  minimum  of  twelve  deputies  to  the 
People's  Assembly  to  be  recognized.  The  leftist  group  was  origi- 
nally known  as  the  National  Progressive  Unionist  Organization 
(NPUO — later  NPUP  when  it  was  allowed  to  become  a  party)  led 
by  Khalid  Muhi  ad  Din,  a  Free  Officer  and  a  Marxist.  The  right- 
wing  group  was  the  Socialist  Liberal  Organization  (SLO — later 
the  Liberal  or  Ahrar  Party)  led  by  Mustafa  Kamil  Murad.  The 
center  group  was  known  as  the  Egyptian  Arab  Socialist  Organiza- 
tion. The  country's  main  political  forces,  the  Wafd,  the  Muslim 
Brotherhood,  the  Nasserites,  and  the  communists,  were  not  allowed 
representation. 

In  the  October  1976  election,  not  unexpectedly,  the  progovern- 
ment  center  platform  of  the  ASU  won  an  overwhelming  majority, 
280  seats;  the  SLP  won  12  and  the  NPUP  only  2.  Independent 
candidates  won  forty-eight  seats.  When  he  opened  the  new  assem- 
bly, Sadat  announced  that  the  platforms  would  become  political 
parties. 

In  July  1977,  Sadat  announced  that  he  would  establish  his  own 
party,  the  National  Democratic  Party  (NDP),  signaling  the  end 
of  the  Arab  Socialist  Union,  which  was  merged  with  the  NDP.  Sadat 
also  wanted  a  more  pliable  left-wing  opposition  party,  so  the  So- 
cialist Labor  Party  (Amal)  was  founded  with  Sadat's  brother-in- 
law  as  vice  president. 

Sadat  also  allowed  comparative  freedom  of  action  to  the  Mus- 
lim Brotherhood.  Sadat  felt  he  could  use  the  Islamic  fundamen- 
talists to  counter  the  growing  influence  of  the  left.  The  leaders  of 
the  Muslim  Brotherhood  were  freed  in  1974  along  with  other  po- 
litical prisoners.  They  were  not  allowed  to  become  a  legal  organi- 
zation, but  they  were  allowed  to  operate  openly  and  to  publish  their 
magazine,  Al  Awd  (The  Return)  as  long  as  they  did  not  criticize 
the  regime  too  sharply.  This  policy  seemed  to  work  until  the  peace 
treaty  with  Israel,  and  then  the  Brotherhood  became  a  severe  crit- 
ic of  the  regime  (see  The  "Dominant  Party"  System,  ch.  4). 

The  movement  away  from  a  one-party  system  matched  Egypt's 
turn  away  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  toward  the  United  States. 
Sadat  hoped  that  his  new  political  and  economic  policies  would  at- 
tract large  sums  of  private  American  investment.  He  also  felt  that 
the  United  States  was  the  only  country  that  could  pressure  Israel 
into  a  final  peace  settlement.  To  enhance  relations  with  the  Unit- 
ed States  and  to  respond  to  the  Soviet  Union's  refusal  to  resched- 
ule repayments  of  Egypt's  debt,  Sadat  unilaterally  renounced  the 
Soviet-Egyptian  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation  on  March 
15,  1976. 


81 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Egypt's  New  Direction 

In  April  1974,  Sadat  presented  what  he  called  the  October  Work- 
ing Paper,  which  described  his  vision  of  Egypt's  future.  The  paper 
committed  Egypt  to  building  a  strong  country,  continuing  the  con- 
frontation with  Israel,  working  toward  Arab  unity,  and  playing 
a  leading  role  in  world  politics.  Perhaps  the  most  important  part 
of  Sadat's  paper  was  the  announcement  of  a  new  economic  policy 
that  came  to  be  called  infitah,  (opening  or  open  door;  see  Glossary 
and  The  Role  of  Government,  ch.  3). 

This  new  economic  policy  allowed  increased  foreign  investment 
in  Egypt,  greater  participation  by  the  private  sector  in  the  Egyp- 
tian economy,  more  freedom  for  individuals  to  develop  their  own 
wealth  and  property,  and  relaxed  currency  regulations  so  that  Egyp- 
tians could  have  access  to  foreign  currency.  The  new  direction 
gradually  changed  Egypt  in  many  ways:  the  shops  filled  with  for- 
eign consumer  goods;  foreign  companies  built  huge  modern  hotels; 
and  new  wealth  was  displayed  in  a  way  that  had  not  been  seen  in 
Egypt  since  before  the  1952  Revolution.  Doubts  began  to  be  ex- 
pressed, however,  about  how  much  all  this  was  actually  doing  for 
the  Egyptian  people  since  foreign  investment  in  long-term  agricul- 
tural or  industrial  projects  was  lacking. 

In  January  1977,  Egyptians  took  to  the  streets  in  antigovern- 
ment  riots  that  demonstrated  their  disillusionment  with  infitah  and 
the  nepotism  and  corruption  it  spawned.  The  cause  of  the  riots 
went  back  to  late  1976  when  Sadat,  in  an  effort  to  solve  the  coun- 
try's economic  problems,  asked  the  World  Bank  for  loans.  In 
response  to  the  bank's  criticisms  of  public  subsidies,  the  govern- 
ment announced  in  January  1977  that  it  was  ending  subsidies  on 
flour,  rice,  and  cooking  oil  and  canceling  bonuses  and  pay  increases. 

The  result  was  immediate  and  shocking.  On  January  18  and  19, 
there  was  rioting  in  towns  from  Aswan  to  Alexandria,  variously 
described  as  the  biggest  upheaval  since  the  1919  riots  against  the 
British,  or  a  second  Black  Saturday.  It  was  the  first  time  the  army 
had  been  brought  into  the  streets  since  1952.  For  thirty-six  hours, 
the  rioters  unleashed  their  pent-up  fury  on  targets  that  symbolized 
the  yawning  gap  between  the  haves  and  have-nots,  the  frivolity 
and  corruption  of  the  ruling  class,  and  the  incompetence  and  in- 
sensitivity  of  the  administration.  The  rioters  shouted  slogans  like, 
"Hero  of  the  crossing,  where  is  our  breakfast?"  and  "Thieves  of 
the  infitah,  the  people  are  famished."  There  were  also  shouts  of 
"Nasser,  Nasser."  In  the  clashes  between  demonstrators  and  police, 
800  persons  were  killed,  and  several  thousands  were  wounded, 
according  to  unofficial  estimates.  The  rioting  ended  when  the 


82 


Historical  Setting 


government  canceled  the  price  increases  while  retaining  10  per- 
cent wage  increases  and  other  benefits  for  public  sector  employees. 

Peace  with  Israel 

In  1977  the  outlook  for  peace  between  Israel  and  Egypt  was  not 
good.  Israel  still  held  most  of  Sinai,  and  negotiations  had  been  at 
a  stalemate  since  the  second  disengagement  agreement  in  1975. 
Israeli  prime  minister  Menachem  Begin  was  a  hard-liner  and  a 
supporter  of  Israeli  expansion.  He  approved  the  development  of 
settlements  on  the  occupied  West  Bank  and  reprisal  raids  into 
southern  Lebanon.  He  also  refused  to  approve  any  negotiation  with 
the  PLO.  After  the  food  riots  of  January  1977,  Sadat  decided  that 
something  dramatic  had  to  be  done,  and  so  on  November  19,  1977, 
in  response  to  an  invitation  from  Begin,  Sadat  journeyed  to  Jeru- 
salem. 

The  world  was  amazed  by  this  courageous  move.  The  reaction 
in  Egypt  was  generally  favorable.  Many  Egyptians  accepted  peace 
with  Israel  if  it  meant  regaining  Egyptian  territories.  They  were 
tired  of  bearing  the  major  burden  of  the  confrontation  and,  con- 
sidering the  sacrifices  Egypt  had  already  made,  felt  that  the  Pales- 
tinians were  ungrateful.  Of  the  Arab  countries,  only  Sudan,  Oman, 
and  Morocco  were  favorable  to  Sadat's  trip.  In  the  other  Arab 
states,  there  was  shock  and  dismay.  The  Arabs  felt  that  Sadat  had 
betrayed  the  cause  of  Arab  solidarity  and  the  Palestinians.  In  spite 
of  Sadat's  denials,  the  Arabs  believed  that  he  intended  to  go  it  alone 
and  make  a  separate  peace  with  Israel. 

In  fact,  that  is  what  happened.  In  December  1977,  Egypt  and 
Israel  began  peace  negotiations  in  Cairo.  These  negotiations  con- 
tinued on  and  off  over  the  next  several  months,  but  by  September 
1978  it  was  clear  that  they  were  deadlocked.  President  Jimmy  Carter 
had  become  closely  involved  in  the  negotiations.  In  an  effort  to 
break  the  deadlock,  Carter  invited  Sadat  and  Begin  to  Camp  David. 
The  negotiations  were  tense  and  almost  broke  down  several  times. 
On  September  17,  however,  Carter  announced  that  the  Camp 
David  Accords  had  been  reached.  They  consisted  of  two  parts,  the 
Framework  for  Peace  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Framework  for 
the  Conclusion  of  a  Peace  Treaty  between  Israel  and  Egypt.  The 
Egyptian-Israeli  peace  treaty  was  signed  on  March  26,  1979.  Is- 
rael agreed  to  withdraw  from  Sinai  within  three  years  of  the  treaty; 
normal  diplomatic  and  trade  relations  were  to  be  established,  and 
Israeli  ships  would  pass  unhindered  through  the  canal.  Egypt, 
however,  would  not  have  full  sovereignty  over  Sinai.  A  multina- 
tional observer  force  would  be  stationed  in  Sinai,  and  the  United 
States  would  monitor  events  there. 


83 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


The  Framework  for  Peace  in  the  Middle  East  was  an  elabora- 
tion of  the  "autonomy"  plan  that  Begin  had  put  forward  nine 
months  before.  A  "self-governing  authority"  was  to  be  established 
for  a  five-year  transitional  period,  by  the  third  year  of  which  negoti- 
ations would  begin  to  determine  the  final  status  of  the  West  Bank 
and  the  Gaza  Strip  and  to  conclude  a  peace  treaty  between  Israel 
and  Jordan.  Within  one  month  of  the  ratification  of  the  treaty, 
Egypt  and  Israel  were  supposed  to  begin  negotiations  for  the  es- 
tablishment of  the  "elected  self-governing  authority"  in  the  West 
Bank  and  the  Gaza  Strip.  They  set  themselves  the  goal  of  com- 
pleting the  negotiations  within  one  year  so  that  elections  could  be 
held  "as  expeditiously  as  possible."  These  deadlines  came  and  went, 
and  by  1 990  the  Framework  for  Peace  had  become  a  virtual  dead 
letter.  Begin  made  his  position  perfectly  clear:  Jerusalem  would 
remain  undivided;  settlement  would  continue,  and  autonomy  would 
never  become  sovereignty.  There  would  be  no  Palestinian  state. 
On  May  12,  1979,  shortly  before  the  autonomy  talks  were  sup- 
posed to  begin,  deputy  Geula  Cohen,  a  Zionist  extremist,  in- 
troduced a  bill,  adopted  by  the  Knesset,  that  declared  Jerusalem 
to  be  Israel's  united  and  indivisible  capital. 

The  Camp  David  Accords  made  Sadat  a  hero  in  Europe  and 
the  United  States.  The  reaction  in  Egypt  was  generally  favorable, 
but  there  was  opposition  from  the  left  and  from  the  Muslim  Brother- 
hood. In  the  Arab  world,  Sadat  was  almost  universally  condemned. 
Only  Sudan  issued  an  ambivalent  statement  of  support.  The  Arab 
states  suspended  all  official  aid  and  severed  diplomatic  relations. 
Egypt  was  expelled  from  the  Arab  League,  which  it  was  instrumen- 
tal in  founding,  and  from  other  Arab  institutions.  Saudi  Arabia 
withdrew  the  funds  it  had  promised  for  Egypt's  purchase  of  Ameri- 
can fighter  aircraft. 

In  the  West,  where  Sadat  was  extolled  as  a  hero  and  a  champi- 
on of  peace,  the  Arab  rejection  of  the  Camp  David  Accords  is  often 
confused  with  the  rejection  of  peace.  The  basis  for  Arab  rejection 
was  opposition  to  Egypt's  separate  peace  with  Israel.  Although 
Sadat  insisted  that  the  treaty  provided  for  a  comprehensive  settle- 
ment of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  the  Arab  states  and  the  PLO  saw 
it  as  a  separate  peace,  which  Sadat  had  vowed  he  would  not  sign. 
The  Arabs  believed  that  only  a  unified  Arab  stance  and  the  threat 
of  force  would  persuade  Israel  to  negotiate  a  settlement  of  the  Pales- 
tinian issue  that  would  satisfy  Palestinian  demands  for  a  homeland. 
Without  Egypt's  military  power,  the  threat  of  force  evaporated 
because  no  single  Arab  state  was  strong  enough  militarily  to  con- 
front Israel  alone.  Thus,  the  Arabs  felt  betrayed  and  dismayed  that 


84 


Historical  Setting 


the  Palestinian  issue,  the  core  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  would 
remain  an  unresolved,  destabilizing  force  in  the  region. 

The  Aftermath  of  Camp  David  and  the  Assassination  of  Sadat 

The  Camp  David  Accords  brought  peace  to  Egypt  but  not 
prosperity.  With  no  real  improvement  in  the  economy,  Sadat  be- 
came increasingly  unpopular.  His  isolation  in  the  Arab  world  was 
matched  by  his  increasing  remoteness  from  the  mass  of  Egyp- 
tians. While  Sadat's  critics  in  the  Arab  world  remained  beyond 
his  reach,  increasingly  he  reacted  to  criticism  at  home  by  expand- 
ing censorship  and  jailing  his  opponents.  In  addition,  Sadat  sub- 
jected the  Egyptians  to  a  series  of  referenda  on  his  actions  and 
proposals  that  he  invariably  won  by  more  than  99  percent  of  the 
vote.  For  example,  in  May  1979  the  Egyptian  people  approved  the 
Egyptian-Israeli  peace  treaty  by  99.9  percent  of  those  voting. 

One  of  Sadat's  most  remarkable  acts  during  this  period  was  the 
so-called  Law  of  Shame,  which  was  drafted  at  Sadat's  express  in- 
structions. Among  the  shameful  crimes  punishable  under  this  law 
were  "advocating  any  doctrine  that  implies  negation  of  divine  teach- 
ing," "allowing  children  or  youth  to  go  astray  by  advocating  the 
repudiation  of  popular,  religious,  moral,  or  national  values  or  by 
setting  a  bad  example  in  a  public  place,"  and  "broadcasting  or 
publishing  gross  or  scurrilous  words  or  pictures  that  could  offend 
public  sensibilities  or  undermine  the  dignity  of  the  state."  Offenders 
could  be  barred  from  public  life  or  from  engaging  in  economic  ac- 
tivity or  managing  their  own  property;  they  could  be  condemned 
to  internal  exile  or  prohibited  from  leaving  the  country.  The  Law 
of  Shame  was  approved  in  a  referendum  by  more  than  98  percent 
of  the  electorate.  This  was  remarkable  since  there  was  widespread 
opposition  to  the  law,  which  was  denounced  as  "an  act  of  shame. ' ' 

In  May  1980,  an  impressive,  nonpartisan  body  of  citizens  charged 
Sadat  with  superseding  his  own  constitution.  Their  manifesto 
declared,  "The  style  in  which  Egypt  is  governed  today  is  not  based 
on  any  specific  form  of  government.  While  it  is  not  dictatorship, 
Nazism,  or  fascism,  neither  is  it  democracy  or  pseudodemocracy." 

In  September  1981,  Sadat  ordered  the  biggest  roundup  of  his 
opponents  since  he  came  to  power,  at  least  1 ,500  people  according 
to  the  official  figure  but  more  according  to  unofficial  reports.  The 
Muslim  Brotherhood  bore  the  brunt  of  the  arrests.  The  supreme 
guide  of  the  Brotherhood,  Umar  Tilmasani,  and  other  religious 
militants  were  arrested.  Sadat  also  withdrew  his  "recognition"  of 
the  Coptic  pope  Shenudah  III,  banished  him  to  a  desert  monastery, 
and  arrested  several  bishops  and  priests.  Also  arrested  were  such 
prominent  figures  as  journalist  Mohamed  Heikal,  and  Wafd  leader 


85 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Fuad  Siraj  ad  Din.  Sadat  ordered  the  arrest  of  several  SLP  leaders 
and  the  closing  of  Ash  Shaab  (The  People)  newspaper.  A  referen- 
dum on  his  purge  showed  nearly  99.5  percent  of  the  electorate 
approved. 

On  October  6,  while  observing  a  military  parade  commemorat- 
ing the  eighth  anniversary  of  the  October  1973  War,  Sadat  was 
assassinated  by  members  of  Al  Jihad  movement,  a  group  of  reli- 
gious extremists.  Sadat's  assassin  was  Lieutenant  Colonel  Khalid 
al  Islambuli.  The  conspirators  were  arrested  and  tried.  In  April 
1982,  two  of  the  conspirators  were  shot  and  three  hanged. 

Whereas  a  number  of  Western  leaders,  including  three  former 
United  States  presidents,  attended  Sadat's  funeral,  only  one  mem- 
ber of  the  Arab  League  was  represented  by  a  head  of  state,  Sudan. 
Only  two,  Oman  and  Somalia,  sent  representatives.  In  Egypt  43 
million  people  went  on  with  the  celebration  of  Id  al  Adha,  the  Feast 
of  Sacrifice,  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  There  were  no  throngs 
in  the  streets,  grieving  and  lamenting,  as  there  were  when  Nasser 
died.  In  the  Arab  world,  Sadat's  death  was  greeted  with  jubilation. 

Mubarak  and  the  Middle  Way 

Sadat's  handpicked  successor,  Husni  Mubarak,  was  overwhelm- 
ingly approved  in  a  national  referendum  on  October  24,  1981 .  Sadat 
appointed  Mubarak  vice  president  of  the  state  in  1975  and  of  the 
NDP  in  1978.  Mubarak,  who  was  born  in  1928  in  Lower  Egypt 
and  had  spent  his  career  in  the  armed  forces,  was  not  a  member 
of  the  Free  Officers'  movement.  He  had  trained  as  a  pilot  in  the 
Soviet  Union  and  became  air  force  chief  of  staff  in  1 969  and  deputy 
minister  of  war  in  1972. 

In  a  speech  to  the  People's  Assembly  in  November  1981,  Mu- 
barak outlined  the  principles  of  his  government's  policy  and  spoke 
about  the  future  he  wanted  for  Egypt.  Infitah  would  continue,  and 
there  would  be  no  return  to  the  restrictive  days  of  Nasser.  Mubarak 
called  for  an  infitah  of  production,  however,  rather  than  of  con- 
sumption, that  would  benefit  all  of  society  and  not  just  the  wealthy 
few.  Food  subsidies  would  remain,  and  imports  of  unnecessary  lux- 
ury goods  would  be  curtailed.  Opposition  parties  would  be  allowed. 
The  peace  treaty  with  Israel  would  be  observed.  Thus,  Mubarak 
sought  to  chart  a  middle  course  between  the  conflicting  legacies 
of  Nasser  and  Sadat. 

Since  1981  Mubarak  has  allowed  more  overt  political  activity. 
Slowly,  parties  and  newspapers  began  to  function  again,  and  po- 
litical opponents  jailed  by  Sadat  were  released.  At  the  time  of  the 
1984  election,  five  parties  were  allowed  to  function  in  addition  to 
the  ruling  NDP.  The  left-wing  opposition  consisted  of  the  National 


86 


Historical  Setting 


Progressive  Unionist  Party,  a  grouping  of  socialists  led  by  Khalid 
Muhi  ad  Din,  and  the  Socialist  Labor  Party.  The  Wafd  resurfaced 
and  won  a  court  case  against  its  prohibition.  One  religious  party 
was  licensed,  the  Umma.  Not  officially  represented  were  the  com- 
munists, the  Muslim  Brotherhood,  and  avowed  Nasserites,  although 
all  three  tendencies  were  represented  in  other  parties  (see  The 
" Dominant  Party  System,"  ch.  4). 

In  the  1984  election,  a  party  had  to  win  at  least  8  percent  of  the 
vote  to  be  represented  in  the  Assembly.  The  NDP  received  more 
than  70  percent  of  the  vote  (391  seats).  The  Wafd,  the  only  other 
party  to  gain  any  seats,  won  fifty- seven.  The  NPUP  received  only 
7  percent  of  the  votes  and  consequently  lost  them  all  to  the  NDP. 
There  were  some  complaints  that  the  election  was  rigged,  but  no 
serious  challenge  was  mounted  against  the  results. 

In  addition  to  domestic  programs,  Mubarak  was  concerned  to 
regain  the  Sinai  Peninsula  for  Egypt  and  to  return  his  country  to 
the  Arab  fold.  One  of  Mubarak's  first  acts  was  to  pledge  to  honor 
the  peace  treaty  with  Israel.  In  April  1982,  the  Israeli  withdrawal 
from  Sinai  took  place  as  scheduled.  A  multinational  force  of  ob- 
servers took  up  positions  in  Sinai  to  monitor  the  peace.  Egypt  was 
allowed  to  station  only  one  army  division  in  Sinai. 

In  1983  Egypt's  isolation  in  the  Arab  world  began  to  end.  In 
that  year,  Arafat  met  Mubarak  in  Cairo  after  the  PLO  leader  had 
been  expelled  from  Lebanon  under  Syrian  pressure.  In  January 
1984,  Egypt  was  readmitted  unconditionally  to  the  Islamic  Con- 
ference Organization.  In  November  1987,  an  Arab  summit  reso- 
lution allowed  the  Arab  countries  to  resume  diplomatic  relations 
with  Egypt.  This  action  was  taken  largely  as  a  result  of  the  Iran- 
Iraq  War  and  Arab  alarm  over  the  Iranian  offensive  on  Iraqi  ter- 
ritories at  the  end  of  1 986  and  throughout  January  and  February 
1987.  On  Egypt's  side,  its  economic  crisis  worsened,  and  it  need- 
ed economic  assistance  from  the  Arab  oil  states.  Thus,  the  sum- 
mit resolution  amounted  to  an  exchange  of  Egyptian  security 
assistance  in  the  Persian  Gulf  crisis  for  Arab  aid  to  Egypt's  econo- 
my. The  summit  indicated  that  Mubarak,  in  attempting  to  steer 
a  middle  course  between  the  imposing  legacies  of  Nasser  and  Sadat, 
had  brought  Egypt  back  into  the  Arab  fold  and  into  the  center  of 
Middle  East  peace  making. 

*    *  * 

The  literature  on  Egypt  from  ancient  to  modern  times  is  exten- 
sive. Good  basic  works  on  ancient  Egypt  are  Egypt  before  the  Pharaohs 
by  Michael  H.  Hoffman  and  Ancient  Egypt,  edited  by  B.G.  Trigger, 


87 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


B.J.  Kemp,  D.  O'Connor,  and  A.B.  Lloyd.  Also  recommended 
are  Cyril  Aldred's  The  Egyptians  and  Egypt  to  the  End  of  the  Old  King- 
dom. Two  readable,  popular  histories  are  Jill  Kamil's  The  Ancient 
Egyptians  and  Robert  A.  Armour's  Gods  and  Myths  of  Ancient  Egypt. 
Egyptian  art  is  covered  in  W.  Stevenson  Smith's  The  Art  and  Ar- 
chitecture of  Ancient  Egypt. 

The  Arab  Conquest  of  Egypt  by  Alfred  Butler  and  Egypt  During  the 
Middle  Ages  by  Stanley  Lane-Poole  are  classics  that  should  be  read 
for  the  periods  they  cover.  For  Egypt  during  the  medieval  period, 
there  are  also  Robert  Irwin's  The  Middle  East  in  the  Middle  Ages  and 
Bernard  Lewis's  article,  "Egypt  and  Syria,"  in  The  Cambridge  History 
of  Islam.  Egypt  during  the  Ottoman  period  is  covered  in  P.M.  Holt's 
Egypt  and  the  Fertile  Crescent,  1516-1922. 

For  the  late  Ottoman  period  and  the  transition  to  modernity, 
two  important  historical  works  are  The  Roots  of  Modern  Egypt  by 
Daniel  Crecelius  and  Islamic  Roots  of  Capitalism  by  Peter  Gran.  Valu- 
able French  works  are  Andre  Raymond's  A rtisans  et  commergants  au 
Caire  au  XVIIIe  siecle  and  the  collection  of  articles  in  LEgypte  au 
XIXe  siecle. 

For  the  modern  period,  there  are  several  good  general  histories, 
including  P.M.  Holt' 's  Egypt  and  the  Fertile  Crescent,  1516-1922,  which 
ends  with  World  War  I  and  Egyptian  independence,  and  P.J. 
Vatikiotis's  The  History  of  Egypt  from  Muhammad  AU  to  Sadat.  Roger 
Owen's  The  Middle  East  in  the  World  Economy  has  informative  chap- 
ters on  Egypt.  Also  important  for  an  understanding  of  the  trans- 
formation that  took  place  in  Egypt  in  the  nineteenth  century  are 
Holt's  Political  and  Social  Change  in  Modern  Egypt  and  Gabriel  Baer's 
Studies  in  the  Social  History  of  Modern  Egypt. 

Other  important  studies  on  particular  aspects  of  this  period  in- 
clude Afaf  Lutfi  al-Sayyid  Marsot's  Egypt  in  the  Reign  of  Muhmmad 
AU;  Robert  Hunter's  Egypt  under  the  Khedives,  1805-1879;  Albert 
Hourani's  intellectual  history,  Arabic  Thought  in  the  Liberal  Age, 
1798-1939;  Timothy  Mitchell's  Colonizing  Egypt;  and  Eric  Davis's 
Challenging  Colonialism.  The  definitive  study  of  the  Urabi  Revolt 
and  the  British  invasion  of  1882  remains  Alexander  Scholch's  Egypt 
for  the  Egyptians.  Also  important  are  the  first  book-length  history 
of  Egyptian  women  in  English,  Women  in  Nineteenth- Century  Egypt 
by  Judith  Tucker,  and  two  studies  of  the  development  of  the  work- 
ing class,  Workers  on  the  Nile  by  Joel  Beinin  and  Zachary  Lockman, 
and  Tinker,  Tailor,  and  Textile  Worker  by  Ellis  Goldberg. 

The  period  of  parliamentary  democracy  is  well  covered  in  Party 
Politics  in  Egypt  by  Marius  Deeb  and  The  Wafd  by  Janice  Terry. 
For  the  revolutionary  and  postrevolutionary  periods,  there  are  An- 
thony McDermott's  Egypt  from  Nasser  to  Mubarak:  A  Flawed  Revolution 


88 


Historical  Setting 


and  Derek  Hopwood's  Egypt:  Politics  and  Society,  1945-1984.  Also 
important  are  Anouar  Abdel-Malek's  Egypt:  Military  Society,  John 
Waterbury's  The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat,  and  Raymond  A.  Hin- 
nebusch,  Jr.  's  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat.  Egypt's  most  recent  his- 
tory is  covered  in  David  Hirst's  and  Irene  Beeson's  biography  of 
Anwar  Sadat  entitled  Sadat,  Muhammed  Hassanain  Haikal's  at- 
tempt to  explain  Sadat's  assassination  in  Autumn  of  Fury,  and  Robert 
Springborg's  Mubarak's  Egypt.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


89 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Queen  Nefertiti 


EGYPTIAN  SOCIETY  IN  1990  reflected  both  ancient  roots  and 
the  profound  changes  that  have  occurred  since  Napoleon  Bonaparte 
invaded  the  country  in  1798.  Land  tenure,  crops,  and  cultivation 
patterns  had  all  been  transformed  during  the  nineteenth  and  twen- 
tieth centuries,  and  the  country  had  become  increasingly  urbanized 
and  industrialized.  Nevertheless,  approximately  half  the  popula- 
tion still  lived  in  rural  areas  where  settlement  patterns  remained 
defined,  as  they  had  been  since  pharaonic  times,  by  the  Nile  River 
and  irrigated  agriculture.  Villages  were  clustered  along  both  banks 
of  the  Nile  and  along  myriad  irrigation  canals  in  the  Delta. 

The  rise  of  commercial  agriculture  in  the  nineteenth  century  set 
in  motion  a  transformation  of  rural  society.  Land  that  was  previ- 
ously held  in  common  by  a  village  and  granted  in  usufruct  to  in- 
dividual families  was  transferred  to  private  ownership.  The  transfers 
created  a  small  class  of  wealthy  absentee  landowners,  a  somewhat 
larger  class  of  relatively  prosperous  farmers  who  owned  medium- 
sized  parcels  of  land,  and  an  enormous  class  of  small  farmers, 
sharecroppers,  and  landless  casual  laborers. 

The  land-reform  measures  implemented  by  the  government  in 
the  1950s  and  1960s  led  to  the  redistribution  of  nearly  15  percent 
of  the  arable  land  to  about  10  percent  of  the  rural  population.  Land 
reform  limited  individual  landownership  to  twenty-one  hectares, 
thus  forcing  the  wealthiest  landed  families  to  sell  most  of  their 
holdings.  Small  peasant  proprietors  were  the  main  beneficiar- 
ies of  the  redistribution.  By  the  early  1980s,  however,  continued 
population  growth  and  rising  production  costs  had  eroded  many 
of  the  accomplishments  of  land  reform.  Inheritance  tended  to  frag- 
ment already  small  holdings,  and  the  number  of  landless  people 
increased. 

Land  reform  was  only  one  of  several  social  programs  initiated 
by  the  Free  Officers  who  led  the  1952  Revolution  (see  The  Revo- 
lution and  the  Early  Years  of  the  New  Government,  1952-56,  ch. 
1).  The  majority  of  these  officers,  who  came  mostly  from  the  mid- 
dle class,  was  determined  to  broaden  opportunities  in  a  society  that 
had  been  dominated  by  a  narrow  elite.  They  perceived  education 
as  a  critical  force  for  change.  Beginning  in  the  nineteenth  century, 
secular  education  provided  the  country  with  the  foundation  for  a 
civil  bureaucracy.  Access  to  a  university  education  and  government 
employment,  however,  was  generally  limited  to  the  urban  upper 


93 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

classes  until  the  mid- 1930s,  when  sons  of  urban  and  rural  middle- 
class  families  were  accepted  into  the  military  or  civil  administra- 
tion. Following  the  1952  Revolution,  educational  opportunities  from 
primary  school  through  university  increased  substantially.  Through 
the  1980s,  university  enrollments  swelled  as  increasing  numbers 
of  middle-  and  lower-class  youth  pursued  higher  education  in  the 
hope  of  obtaining  prestigious  employment. 

By  the  1980s,  overstaffing  in  the  state  bureaucracy  had  become 
a  major  problem.  Periodic  discussion  by  the  mass  media  on  the 
need  to  reform  the  government's  hiring  and  promotion  systems, 
which  gave  preference  to  university  graduates,  caused  anxiety 
among  students,  many  of  whom  had  migrated  from  rural  areas 
and  faced  limited  employment  prospects  in  agriculture.  Most  of 
these  students  perceived  higher  education  and  government  employ- 
ment as  means  for  achieving  upward  mobility.  They  therefore 
showed  litde  support  for  the  proposed  reforms,  which  would  reduce 
their  opportunities. 

Massive  urbanization  beginning  after  World  War  II  has  had  a 
pervasive  and  accelerating  impact  on  the  nation's  cities,  especial- 
ly Cairo  and  Alexandria.  These  cities,  which  were  once  the  en- 
claves of  the  relatively  prosperous  and  privileged,  have  attracted 
millions  of  rural  migrants,  including  landowning  families'  children 
who  wanted  to  pursue  an  education  and  illiterate  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  poor,  landless  peasants  who  were  willing  to  work  as  unskilled 
laborers.  The  migrants  have  adapted  to  urban  life  by  attempt- 
ing to  replicate  the  social  organization  found  in  villages.  Residen- 
tial patterns,  employment  practices,  and  socializing  have  tended 
to  reflect  and  to  reinforce  relationships  formed  in  the  country- 
side. 

Religion,  mainly  Islam,  is  an  integral  aspect  of  social  life. 
Although  most  Egyptian  Muslims  respect  and  agree  on  the  basic 
tenets  of  Islam,  their  religious  perspectives  differ.  Trained  the- 
ologians, for  example,  practice  orthodox  Islam  while  villagers  prac- 
tice a  simple  form  of  the  religion.  Since  the  1970s,  there  has  been 
a  resurgence  of  Islamic  political  groups.  Activists  ranged  from  per- 
sons fervent  in  religious  practice  to  individuals  who  favor  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Muslim  legal  code  as  the  basis  of  Egyptian  law  to  others 
who  espouse  the  violent  overthrow  of  the  government  to  achieve 
an  Islamic  social  order.  Some  leaders  of  the  Islamic  political  groups 
are  former  university  students  or  recent  graduates  whose  families 
migrated  from  rural  areas.  Many  Muslims  have  responded  favora- 
bly to  these  leaders,  who  are  likely  to  remain  a  potent  political  force 
in  the  1990s. 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Geography 

Physical  Size  and  Borders 

Egypt,  covering  1,001,449  square  kilometers  of  land,  is  about 
the  same  size  as  Texas  and  New  Mexico  combined.  The  country's 
greatest  distance  from  north  to  south  is  1,024  kilometers,  and  from 
east  to  west,  1 ,240  kilometers.  The  country  is  located  in  northeastern 
Africa  and  includes  the  Sinai  Peninsula  (also  seen  as  Sinai),  which 
is  often  considered  part  of  Asia.  Egypt's  natural  boundaries  con- 
sist of  more  than  2,900  kilometers  of  coastiine  along  the  Mediter- 
ranean Sea,  the  Gulf  of  Suez,  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba,  and  the  Red  Sea 
(see  fig.  1). 

Egypt  has  land  boundaries  with  Israel,  Libya,  Sudan,  and  the 
Gaza  Strip,  a  Palestinian  area  formerly  administered  by  Egypt  and 
occupied  by  Israel  since  1967.  The  land  boundaries  are  generally 
straight  lines  that  do  not  conform  to  geographic  features  such  as 
rivers.  Egypt  shares  its  longest  boundary,  which  extends  1,273 
kilometers,  with  Sudan.  In  accordance  with  the  Anglo-Egyptian 
Condominium  Agreement  of  1899,  this  boundary  runs  westward 
from  the  Red  Sea  along  the  twenty-second  parallel,  includes  the 
Sudanese  Nile  salient  (Wadi  Haifa  salient),  and  continues  along 
the  twenty- second  parallel  until  it  meets  the  twenty-fifth  meridi- 
an. The  Sudanese  Nile  salient,  a  finger-shaped  area  along  the  Nile 
River  (Nahr  an  Nil)  north  of  the  twenty-second  parallel,  is  nearly 
covered  by  Lake  Nasser,  which  was  created  when  the  Aswan  High 
Dam  was  constructed  in  the  1960s.  An  "administrative"  bound- 
ary, which  supplements  the  main  Egyptian- Sudanese  boundary  per- 
mits nomadic  tribes  to  gain  access  to  water  holes  at  the  eastern  end 
of  Egypt's  southern  frontier.  The  administrative  boundary  departs 
from  the  international  boundary  in  two  places;  Egypt  administers 
the  area  south  of  the  twenty- second  parallel,  and  Sudan  administers 
the  area  north  of  it. 

Egypt  shares  all  1,150  kilometers  of  the  western  border  with 
Libya.  This  border  was  defined  in  1925  under  an  agreement  with 
Italy,  which  had  colonized  Libya.  Before  and  after  World  War  II, 
the  northern  border  was  adjusted,  resulting  in  the  return  of  the 
village  of  As  Sallum  to  Egyptian  sovereignty.  Egypt  shares  255 
kilometers  of  its  eastern  border  in  Sinai  with  Israel  and  1 1  kilome- 
ters with  the  Gaza  Strip. 

Egypt  is  divided  into  twenty-six  governorates  (sometimes  called 
provinces),  which  include  four  city  governorates:  Alexandria  (Al 
Iskandariyah),  Cairo  (Al  Qahirah),  Port  Said  (Bur  Said)  and  Suez; 
the  nine  governorates  of  Lower  Egypt  in  the  Nile  Delta  region; 
the  eight  governorates  of  Upper  Egypt  along  the  Nile  River  south 


95 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

from  Cairo  to  Aswan;  and  the  five  frontier  governorates  covering 
Sinai  and  the  deserts  that  lie  west  and  east  of  the  Nile.  All  gover- 
norates, except  the  frontier  ones,  are  in  the  Nile  Delta  or  along 
the  Nile  Valley  and  Suez  Canal. 

Natural  Regions 

Egypt  is  predominantly  desert.  Only  35,000  square  kilometers — 
3 . 5  percent  of  the  total  land  area — are  cultivated  and  permanent- 
ly settled.  Most  of  the  country  lies  within  the  wide  band  of  desert 
that  stretches  from  Africa's  Atlantic  Coast  across  the  continent  and 
into  southwest  Asia.  Egypt's  geological  history  has  produced  four 
major  physical  regions:  the  Nile  Valley  and  Delta,  the  Western 
Desert  (also  known  as  the  Libyan  Desert),  the  Eastern  Desert  (also 
known  as  the  Arabian  Desert),  and  the  Sinai  Peninsula  (see  fig. 
3).  The  Nile  Valley  and  Delta  is  the  most  important  region  be- 
cause it  supports  99  percent  of  the  population  on  the  country's  only 
cultivable  land. 

Nile  Valley  and  Delta 

The  Nile  Valley  and  Delta,  the  most  extensive  oasis  on  earth, 
was  created  by  the  world's  second-longest  river  and  its  seemingly 
inexhaustible  sources.  Without  the  topographic  channel  that  per- 
mits the  Nile  to  flow  across  the  Sahara,  Egypt  would  be  entirely 
desert;  the  Nile  River  traverses  about  1,600  kilometers  through 
Egypt  and  flows  northward  from  the  Egyptian-Sudanese  border 
to  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  The  Nile  is  a  combination  of  three  long 
rivers  whose  sources  are  in  central  Africa:  the  White  Nile,  the  Blue 
Nile,  and  the  Atbarah. 

The  White  Nile,  which  begins  at  Lake  Victoria  in  Uganda,  sup- 
plies about  28  percent  of  the  Nile's  waters  in  Egypt.  In  its  course 
from  Lake  Victoria  to  Juba  in  southern  Sudan,  the  elevation  of 
the  White  Nile's  channel  drops  more  than  600  meters.  In  its 
1,600-kilometer  course  from  Juba  to  Khartoum,  Sudan's  capital, 
the  river  descends  only  75  meters.  In  southern  and  central  Sudan, 
the  White  Nile  passes  through  a  wide,  flat  plain  covered  with  swamp 
vegetation  and  slows  almost  to  stagnation. 

The  Blue  Nile,  which  originates  at  Lake  Tana  in  Ethiopia,  pro- 
vides an  average  of  58  percent  of  the  Nile's  waters  in  Egypt.  It 
has  a  steeper  gradient  and  flows  more  swiftly  than  the  White  Nile, 
which  it  joins  at  Khartoum.  Unlike  the  White  Nile,  the  Blue  Nile 
carries  a  considerable  amount  of  sediment;  for  several  kilometers 
north  of  Khartoum,  water  closer  to  the  eastern  bank  of  the  river 
is  visibly  muddy  and  comes  from  the  Blue  Nile,  while  the  water 
closer  to  the  western  bank  is  clearer  and  comes  from  the  White  Nile. 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  much  shorter  Atbarah  River,  which  also  originates  in  Ethio- 
pia, joins  the  main  Nile  north  of  Khartoum  between  the  fifth  and 
sixth  cataracts  (areas  of  steep  rapids)  and  provides  about  14  per- 
cent of  the  Nile's  waters  in  Egypt.  During  the  low- water  season, 
which  runs  from  January  to  June,  the  Atbarah  shrinks  to  a  num- 
ber of  pools.  But  in  late  summer,  when  torrential  rains  fall  on  the 
Ethiopian  plateau,  the  Atbarah  provides  22  percent  of  the  Nile's 
flow. 

The  Blue  Nile  has  a  similar  pattern.  It  contributes  17  percent 
of  the  Nile's  waters  in  the  low-water  season  and  68  percent  during 
the  high-water  season.  In  contrast,  the  White  Nile  provides  only 
10  percent  of  the  Nile's  waters  during  the  high- water  season  but 
contributes  more  than  80  percent  during  the  low- water  period. 
Thus,  before  the  Aswan  High  Dam  was  completed  in  1971,  the 
White  Nile  watered  the  Egyptian  stretch  of  the  river  throughout 
the  year,  whereas  the  Blue  Nile,  carrying  seasonal  rain  from  Ethio- 
pia, caused  the  Nile  to  overflow  its  banks  and  deposit  a  layer  of 
fertile  mud  over  adjacent  fields.  The  great  flood  of  the  main  Nile 
usually  occurred  in  Egypt  during  August,  September,  and  October, 
but  it  sometimes  began  as  early  as  June  at  Aswan  and  often  did 
not  completely  wane  until  January. 

The  Nile  enters  Egypt  a  few  kilometers  north  of  Wadi  Haifa, 
a  Sudanese  town  that  was  completely  rebuilt  on  high  ground  when 
its  original  site  was  submerged  in  the  reservoir  created  by  the  Aswan 
High  Dam.  As  a  result  of  the  dam's  construction,  the  Nile  actual- 
ly begins  its  flow  into  Egypt  as  Lake  Nasser,  which  extends  south 
from  the  dam  320  kilometers  to  the  border  and  an  additional  158 
kilometers  into  Sudan.  Lake  Nasser's  waters  fill  the  area  through 
Lower  Nubia  (Upper  Egypt  and  northern  Sudan)  within  the  nar- 
row gorge  between  the  cliffs  of  sandstone  and  granite  created  by 
the  flow  of  the  river  over  many  centuries.  Below  Aswan  the  culti- 
vated floodplain  strip  widens  to  as  much  as  twenty  kilometers.  North 
of  Isna  (160  kilometers  north  of  Aswan),  the  plateau  on  both  sides 
of  the  valley  rises  as  high  as  550  meters  above  sea  level;  at  Qina 
(about  90  kilometers  north  of  Isna)  the  300-meter  limestone  cliffs 
force  the  Nile  to  change  course  to  the  southwest  for  about  60  kilo- 
meters before  turning  northwest  for  about  160  kilometers  to  Asyut. 
Northward  from  Asyut,  the  escarpments  on  both  sides  diminish, 
and  the  valley  widens  to  a  maximum  of  twenty-two  kilometers.  The 
Nile  reaches  the  Delta  at  Cairo. 

At  Cairo  the  Nile  spreads  out  over  what  was  once  a  broad  estu- 
ary that  has  been  filled  by  silt  deposits  to  form  a  fertile,  fan- shaped 
delta  about  250  kilometers  wide  at  the  seaward  base  and  about 
160  kilometers  from  north  to  south.  The  Nile  Delta  extends  over 


99 


Figurr  3.  Natural  Regions 


98 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

approximately  22,000  square  kilometers  (roughly  equivalent  in  area 
to  Massachusetts).  According  to  historical  accounts  from  the  first 
century  A.D.,  seven  branches  of  the  Nile  once  ran  through  the  Del- 
ta. According  to  later  accounts,  the  Nile  had  only  six  branches  by 
around  the  twelfth  century.  Since  then,  nature  and  man  have  closed 
all  but  two  main  outlets:  the  east  branch,  Damietta  (also  seen  as 
Dumyat;  240  kilometers  long),  and  the  west  branch,  Rosetta  (235 
kilometers  long).  Both  outlets  are  named  after  the  ports  located 
at  their  mouths.  A  network  of  drainage  and  irrigation  canals  sup- 
plements these  remaining  outlets.  In  the  north  near  the  coast,  the 
Delta  embraces  a  series  of  salt  marshes  and  lakes;  most  notable 
among  them  are  Idku,  Al  Burullus,  and  Manzilah. 

The  fertility  and  productivity  of  the  land  adjacent  to  the  Nile 
depends  largely  on  the  silt  deposited  by  floodwaters.  Archaeologi- 
cal research  indicates  that  people  once  lived  at  a  much  higher  ele- 
vation along  the  river  than  they  do  today,  probably  because  the 
river  was  higher  or  the  floods  more  severe.  The  timing  and  the 
amount  of  annual  flow  were  always  unpredictable.  Measurements 
of  annual  flows  as  low  as  1 . 2  billion  cubic  meters  and  as  high  as 
4.25  billion  cubic  meters  have  been  recorded.  For  centuries  Egyp- 
tians attempted  to  predict  and  take  advantage  of  the  flows  and 
moderate  the  severity  of  floods. 

The  construction  of  dams  on  the  Nile,  particularly  the  Aswan 
High  Dam,  transformed  the  mighty  river  into  a  large  and  predic- 
table irrigation  ditch.  Lake  Nasser,  the  world's  largest  artificial  lake, 
has  enabled  planned  use  of  the  Nile  regardless  of  the  amount  of 
rainfall  in  Central  Africa  and  East  Africa.  The  dams  have  also 
affected  the  Nile  Valley's  fertility,  which  was  dependent  for  cen- 
turies not  only  on  the  water  brought  to  the  arable  land  but  also 
on  the  materials  left  by  the  water.  Researchers  have  estimated  that 
beneficial  silt  deposits  in  the  valley  began  about  10,000  years  ago. 
The  average  annual  deposit  of  arable  soil  through  the  course  of 
the  river  valley  was  about  nine  meters.  Analysis  of  the  flow  re- 
vealed that  10.7  million  tons  of  solid  matter  passed  Cairo  each  year. 
Today  the  Aswan  High  Dam  obstructs  most  of  this  sediment,  which 
is  now  retained  in  Lake  Nasser.  The  reduction  in  annual  silt  deposits 
has  contributed  to  rising  water  tables  and  increasing  soil  salinity 
in  the  Delta,  the  erosion  of  the  river's  banks  in  Upper  Egypt,  and 
the  erosion  of  the  alluvial  fan  along  the  shore  of  the  Mediterrane- 
an Sea. 

Western  Desert 

The  Western  Desert  covers  about  700,000  square  kilometers 
(equivalent  in  size  to  Texas)  and  accounts  for  about  two-thirds  of 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Egypt's  land  area.  This  immense  desert  to  the  west  of  the  Nile  spans 
the  area  from  the  Mediterranean  Sea  south  to  the  Sudanese  bor- 
der. The  desert's  Jilf  al  Kabir  Plateau  has  an  altitude  of  about  1 ,000 
meters,  an  exception  to  the  uninterrupted  territory  of  basement 
rocks  covered  by  layers  of  horizontally  bedded  sediments  forming 
a  massive  plain  or  low  plateau.  The  Great  Sand  Sea  lies  within 
the  desert's  plain  and  extends  from  the  Siwah  Oasis  to  Jilf  al  Kabir. 
Scarps  (ridges)  and  deep  depressions  (basins)  exist  in  several  parts 
of  the  Western  Desert,  and  no  rivers  or  streams  drain  into  or  out 
of  the  area. 

The  government  has  considered  the  Western  Desert  a  frontier 
region  and  has  divided  it  into  two  governorates  at  about  the  twenty- 
eighth  parallel:  Matruh  to  the  north  and  New  Valley  (Al  Wadi  al 
Jadid)  to  the  south.  There  are  seven  important  depressions  in  the 
Western  Desert,  and  all  are  considered  oases  except  the  largest, 
Qattara,  the  water  of  which  is  salty.  The  Qattara  Depression  is 
approximately  15,000  square  kilometers  (about  the  size  of  Con- 
necticut and  Rhode  Island)  and  is  largely  below  sea  level  (its  lowest 
point  is  133  meters  below  sea  level).  Badlands,  salt  marshes,  and 
salt  lakes  cover  the  sparsely  inhabited  Qattara  Depression. 

Limited  agricultural  production,  the  presence  of  some  natural 
resources,  and  permanent  settlements  are  found  in  the  other  six 
depressions,  all  of  which  have  fresh  water  provided  by  the  Nile  or 
by  local  groundwater.  The  Siwah  Oasis,  close  to  the  Libyan  bor- 
der and  west  of  Qattara,  is  isolated  from  the  rest  of  Egypt  but  has 
sustained  life  since  ancient  times.  Siwah' s  cliff-hung  Temple  of 
Amun  was  renowned  for  its  oracles  for  more  than  1,000  years. 
Herodotus  and  Alexander  the  Great  were  among  the  many  illus- 
trious people  who  visited  the  temple  in  the  pre-Christian  era. 

The  other  major  oases  form  a  topographic  chain  of  basins  ex- 
tending from  the  Al  Fayyum  Oasis  (sometimes  called  the  Fayyum 
Depression)  which  lies  sixty  kilometers  southwest  of  Cairo,  south 
to  the  Bahriyah,  Farafirah,  and  Dakhilah  oases  before  reaching 
the  country's  largest  oasis,  Kharijah.  A  brackish  lake,  Birkat  Qa- 
run,  at  the  northern  reaches  of  Al  Fayyum  Oasis,  drained  into  the 
Nile  in  ancient  times.  For  centuries  sweetwater  artesian  wells  in 
the  Fayyum  Oasis  have  permitted  extensive  cultivation  in  an  ir- 
rigated area  that  extends  over  1,800  square  kilometers. 

Eastern  Desert 

The  topographic  features  of  the  region  east  of  the  Nile  are  very 
different  from  those  of  the  Western  Desert.  The  relatively  moun- 
tainous Eastern  Desert  rises  abruptly  from  the  Nile  and  extends 
over  an  area  of  approximately  220,000  square  kilometers  (roughly 


101 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

equivalent  in  size  to  Utah).  The  upward- sloping  plateau  of  sand 
gives  way  within  100  kilometers  to  arid,  defoliated,  rocky  hills  run- 
ning north  and  south  between  the  Sudan  border  and  the  Delta. 
The  hills  reach  elevations  of  more  than  1,900  meters.  The  region's 
most  prominent  feature  is  the  easterly  chain  of  rugged  mountains, 
the  Red  Sea  Hills,  which  extend  from  the  Nile  Valley  eastward 
to  the  Gulf  of  Suez  and  the  Red  Sea.  This  elevated  region  has  a 
natural  drainage  pattern  that  rarely  functions  because  of  insuffi- 
cient rainfall.  It  also  has  a  complex  of  irregular,  sharply  cut  wadis 
that  extend  westward  toward  the  Nile. 

The  Eastern  Desert  is  generally  isolated  from  the  rest  of  the  coun- 
try. There  is  no  oasis  cultivation  in  the  region  because  of  the 
difficulty  in  sustaining  any  form  of  agriculture.  Except  for  a  few 
villages  on  the  Red  Sea  coast,  there  are  no  permanent  settlements. 
The  importance  of  the  Eastern  Desert  lies  in  its  natural  resources, 
especially  oil  (see  Energy,  ch.  3).  A  single  governorate,  the  capital 
of  which  is  at  Al  Ghardaqah,  administers  the  entire  region. 

Sinai  Peninsula 

This  triangular  area  covers  about  61,100  square  kilometers 
(slightly  smaller  than  West  Virginia).  Similar  to  the  desert,  the 
peninsula  contains  mountains  in  its  southern  sector  that  are  a  geo- 
logical extension  of  the  Red  Sea  Hills,  the  low  range  along  the  Red 
Sea  coast  that  includes  Mount  Catherine  (Jabal  Katrinah),  the  coun- 
try's highest  point — 2,642  meters.  The  Red  Sea  is  named  after  these 
mountains,  which  are  red. 

The  southern  side  of  the  peninsula  has  a  sharp  escarpment  that 
subsides  after  a  narrow  coastal  shelf  that  slopes  into  the  Red  Sea 
and  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba.  The  elevation  of  Sinai's  southern  rim  is 
about  1 ,000  meters.  Moving  northward,  the  elevation  of  this  lime- 
stone plateau  decreases.  The  northern  third  of  Sinai  is  a  flat,  san- 
dy coastal  plain,  which  extends  from  the  Suez  Canal  into  the  Gaza 
Strip  and  Israel. 

Before  the  Israeli  military  occupied  Sinai  during  the  June  1967 
War  (Arab-Israeli  war,  also  known  as  the  Six-Day  War),  a  single 
Egyptian  governorate  administered  the  whole  peninsula.  By  1982 
after  all  of  Sinai  was  returned  to  Egypt,  the  central  government 
divided  the  peninsula  into  two  governorates.  North  Sinai  has  its 
capital  at  Al  Arish  and  the  South  Sinai  has  its  capital  in  At  Tur. 

Climate 

Throughout  Egypt,  days  are  commonly  warm  or  hot,  and  nights 
are  cool.  Egypt  has  only  two  seasons:  a  mild  winter  from  Novem- 
ber to  April  and  a  hot  summer  from  May  to  October.  The  only 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


differences  between  the  seasons  are  variations  in  daytime  temper- 
atures and  changes  in  prevailing  winds.  In  the  coastal  regions,  tem- 
peratures range  between  an  average  minimum  of  14°C  in  winter 
and  an  average  maximum  of  30 °C  in  summer. 

Temperatures  vary  widely  in  the  inland  desert  areas,  especially 
in  summer,  when  they  may  range  from  7°C  at  night  to  43 °C  dur- 
ing the  day.  During  winter,  temperatures  in  the  desert  fluctuate 
less  dramatically,  but  they  can  be  as  low  as  0°C  at  night  and  as 
high  as  18°C  during  the  day. 

The  average  annual  temperature  increases  moving  southward 
from  the  Delta  to  the  Sudanese  border,  where  temperatures  are 
similar  to  those  of  the  open  deserts  to  the  east  and  west.  In  the 
north,  the  cooler  temperatures  of  Alexandria  during  the  summer 
have  made  the  city  a  popular  resort.  Throughout  the  Delta  and 
the  northern  Nile  Valley,  there  are  occasional  winter  cold  spells 
accompanied  by  light  frost  and  even  snow.  At  Aswan,  in  the  south, 
June  temperatures  can  be  as  low  as  10°C  at  night  and  as  high  as 
41  °C  during  the  day  when  the  sky  is  clear. 

Egypt  receives  fewer  than  eighty  millimeters  of  precipitation  an- 
nually in  most  areas.  Most  rain  falls  along  the  coast,  but  even  the 
wettest  area,  around  Alexandria,  receives  only  about  200  millimeters 
of  precipitation  per  year.  Alexandria  has  relatively  high  humidi- 
ty, but  sea  breezes  help  keep  the  moisture  down  to  a  comfortable 
level.  Moving  southward,  the  amount  of  precipitation  decreases 
suddenly.  Cairo  receives  a  little  more  than  one  centimeter  of  precipi- 
tation each  year.  The  city,  however,  reports  humidity  as  high  as 
77  percent  during  the  summer.  But  during  the  rest  of  the  year, 
humidity  is  low.  The  areas  south  of  Cairo  receive  only  traces  of 
rainfall.  Some  areas  will  go  years  without  rain  and  then  experience 
sudden  downpours  that  result  in  flash  floods.  Sinai  receives  some- 
what more  rainfall  (about  twelve  centimeters  annually  in  the  north) 
than  the  other  desert  areas,  and  the  region  is  dotted  by  numerous 
wells  and  oases,  which  support  small  population  centers  that  for- 
merly were  focal  points  on  trade  routes.  Water  drainage  toward 
the  Mediterranean  Sea  from  the  main  plateau  supplies  sufficient 
moisture  to  permit  some  agriculture  in  the  coastal  area,  particu- 
larly near  Al  Arish. 

A  phenomenon  of  Egypt's  climate  is  the  hot  spring  wind  that  blows 
across  the  country.  The  winds,  known  to  Europeans  as  the  sirocco 
and  to  Egyptians  as  the  khamsin,  usually  arrive  in  April  but  occa- 
sionally occur  in  March  and  May.  The  winds  form  in  small  but 
vigorous  low-pressure  areas  in  the  Isthmus  of  Suez  and  sweep  across 
the  northern  coast  of  Africa.  Unobstructed  by  geographical  features, 
the  winds  reach  high  velocities  and  carry  great  quantities  of  sand 


103 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

and  dust  from  the  deserts.  These  sandstorms,  often  accompanied 
by  winds  of  up  to  140  kilometers  per  hour,  can  cause  temperatures 
to  rise  as  much  as  20 °C  in  two  hours.  The  winds  blow  intermit- 
tently and  may  continue  for  days,  cause  illness  in  people  and  animals, 
harm  crops,  and  occasionally  damage  houses  and  infrastructure. 

Population 

Egypt's  population,  estimated  at  3  million  when  Napoleon  in- 
vaded the  country  in  1798,  has  increased  at  varying  rates.  The 
population  grew  gradually  and  steadily  throughout  the  nineteenth 
century,  doubling  in  size  over  the  course  of  eighty  years.  Begin- 
ning in  the  1880s,  the  growth  rate  accelerated,  and  the  population 
increased  more  than  600  percent  in  100  years.  The  growth  rate 
was  especially  high  after  World  War  II.  In  1947  a  census  indicat- 
ed that  Egypt's  population  was  19  million.  A  census  in  1976  re- 
vealed that  the  population  had  ballooned  to  36.6  million.  After  1976 
the  population  grew  at  an  annual  rate  of  2.9  percent  and  in  1986 
reached  a  total  of  50.4  million,  including  about  2.3  million  Egyp- 
tians working  in  other  countries.  Projections  indicated  the  popu- 
lation would  reach  60  million  by  1996. 

Egypt's  population  in  mid- 1990  was  estimated  at  52.5  million, 
about  an  8  percent  increase  over  the  1986  figure.  The  increase 
meant  that  the  annual  population  growth  rate  had  slowed  slightly 
to  2.6  percent.  Although  Egypt's  overall  population  density  in  1990 
was  only  about  fifty-four  people  per  square  kilometer,  close  to  99 
percent  of  all  Egyptians  lived  along  the  banks  of  the  Nile  River 
in  3.5  percent  of  the  country's  total  area.  Average  population  den- 
sities in  the  Nile  Valley  exceeded  1,500  per  square  kilometer — 
one  of  the  world's  highest  densities  (see  fig.  4). 

According  to  the  1986  census,  51.1  percent  of  Egypt's  popula- 
tion was  male  and  48.9  percent  female.  More  than  34  percent  of 
the  population  was  twelve  years  old  or  younger,  and  68  percent 
was  under  age  thirty.  Fewer  than  3  percent  of  Egyptians  were  sixty- 
five  years  or  older.  In  1989  average  life  expectancy  at  birth  was 
fifty-nine  years  for  men  and  sixty  years  for  women.  The  infant  mor- 
tality rate  was  94  deaths  per  1 ,000  births.  Although  the  urban  popu- 
lation has  been  increasing  at  a  higher  rate  than  the  rural  population 
since  the  1947  census,  approximately  51  percent  of  people  still  lived 
in  villages  in  1986.  By  the  end  of  1989,  however,  demographers 
estimated  the  urban-rural  distribution  to  be  equal. 

Population  Control  Policies 

Egypt's  population  is  very  large  in  relation  to  the  country's  natur- 
al resources.  Although  it  is  not  a  perfect  measure  of  the  impact 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  high  population  growth  rates,  the  amount  of  land  cultivated  by 
the  average  farmer  provides  a  glimpse  at  the  extent  of  the  problem. 
In  slightly  more  than  150  years  (1821-1976),  the  per  capita  culti- 
vated area  dropped  from  0.8  feddan  (see  Glossary)  to  0.27  feddan 
among  the  rural  population.  If  the  urban  population  is  included, 
the  per  capita  cultivated  area  in  1976  amounted  to  only  0.15  fed- 
dan. The  decline  has  meant  that  the  same  amount  of  cultivated  land 
must  feed  a  continuously  increasing  population.  In  1974  Egypt, 
which  had  been  a  net  exporter  of  cereals  for  centuries,  became  a 
net  importer  of  food,  especially  grains. 

As  early  as  1959,  government  economists  expressed  concern 
about  the  negative  impact  of  high  population  growth  rates  on  the 
country's  development  efforts.  In  1966  the  government  initiated 
a  nationwide  birth  control  program  aimed  at  reducing  the  annual 
population  growth  rate  to  2.5  percent  or  less.  Since  then  state-run 
family  planning  clinics  have  distributed  birth  control  information 
and  contraceptives.  These  programs  were  somewhat  successful  in 
reducing  the  population  growth  rate,  but  in  1973  the  rate  began 
to  increase  again.  Population  control  policies  tended  to  be  ineffec- 
tive because  most  Egyptians,  especially  in  rural  areas,  valued  large 
families. 

Major  Cities 

Although  Egypt's  urban  history  is  lengthy,  modern  urbaniza- 
tion, characterized  by  massive  and  continuing  rural-to-urban  migra- 
tion, is  largely  a  post- World  War  II  phenomenon.  Since  1947, 
urban  growth  rates  have  averaged  about  one  percentage  point 
higher  than  the  rates  for  rural  areas.  Thus,  for  forty  years,  the  ur- 
ban population  has  been  expanding  at  the  rate  of  4  percent  annu- 
ally. Cairo,  the  country's  capital  and  largest  city,  has  been  affected 
the  most  by  this  urbanization.  Between  1947  and  1986,  the  city's 
population  grew  from  1 . 5  million  to  more  than  6  million  (within 
the  city's  corporate  limits).  During  the  same  period,  the  popula- 
tion of  Giza  (Al  Jizah),  across  the  Nile  from  Cairo,  grew  even  more 
dramatically,  from  18,000  to  1.6  million.  In  1989  an  estimated  10.5 
million  people,  or  20  percent  of  all  Egyptians,  lived  in  the  urban 
agglomeration  known  as  Greater  Cairo,  which  extended  along  both 
banks  of  the  Nile  from  Shubra  al  Khaymah  in  the  north  to  Hul- 
wan  in  the  south.  Within  the  city's  boundaries,  the  population  den- 
sity averaged  26,000  people  per  square  kilometer.  In  some  of  the 
more  crowded  quarters  of  the  city,  such  as  Rawd  al  Faraj,  densi- 
ties were  as  high  as  135,000  per  square  kilometer. 

Cairo  is  an  ancient  city,  occupying  a  site  that  has  been  continu- 
ously inhabited  for  more  than  3,500  years.  Over  the  centuries, 


105 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


765432       1       0       1       234       5  67 


POPULATION  IN  MILLIONS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States  Bureau  of  the  Census;  and  Population, 
Housing,  and  Establishment  Census,  Cairo,  1986,  13,  17. 

Figure  4.  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1986 

there  have  been  nine  distinct  cities  where  Cairo  is  located.  The 
"modern"  city  was  founded  in  969  near  the  site  of  ancient  Egypt's 
Khere-ohe,  better  known  in  the  West  by  its  Greek  name  of  Heliopo- 
lis.  In  Arabic,  "Cairo"  means  "victorious"  and  is  the  same  name 
used  for  the  planet  Mars.  Cairo  has  consistently  been  a  city  of  pre- 
eminence in  the  Arab  world  for  more  than  1 ,000  years,  but  its  poli- 
tical and  economic  influence  within  and  beyond  Egypt  has  varied. 
One  of  its  more  illustrious  periods  ran  from  1170  to  1345,  when 
Cairo  became  one  of  the  world's  largest  cities  with  a  population 
of  about  500,000.  The  layout  of  central  Cairo  remains  similar  to 
what  it  was  during  that  time.  Many  of  the  city's  renowned 
mosques — there  are  more  than  600  Islamic  monuments  in  Cairo — 
also  date  back  to  the  medieval  period.  Cairo's  importance  derived 
from  its  role  as  a  center  for  the  production  and  export  of  textiles 
and  refined  sugar  and  for  goods  manufactured  from  cotton,  flax, 
and  sugarcane.  Cairo  was  also  a  transshipment  center  for  over- 
land trade  from  India  and  Africa  to  Europe. 

The  plague  known  as  the  Black  Death  devastated  Cairo  and  the 
rest  of  Egypt  between  1347  and  1350.  The  plague  killed  about  40 
percent  of  the  country's  population. 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Cairo  quickly  lost  its  preeminent  role  as  a  transshipment  center 
when  the  Europeans  discovered  a  maritime  route  to  India  and 
China  around  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.  Cairo  remained  Egypt's 
administrative  and  commercial  center,  but  it  experienced  relative 
economic  stagnation  for  the  next  three  centuries.  By  the  time 
Napoleon  conquered  the  city  in  1798,  its  population  had  declined 
to  approximately  200,000. 

During  the  nineteenth  century,  the  rise  of  the  cotton  export  trade, 
government  sponsorship  of  industrial  development,  and  the  com- 
pletion of  the  construction  of  the  Suez  Canal  in  1869  revitalized 
Cairo,  and  the  city  began  to  grow  again.  During  the  last  half  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  the  French  approach  to  urban  planning 
changed  Cairo's  layout.  Egypt's  ruler,  Ismail  (1863-79),  had  been 
educated  in  France  and  aspired  to  have  his  capital  rival  Paris.  To 
coincide  with  the  ceremonies  for  the  opening  of  the  Suez  Canal, 
Ismail  proposed  a  design  for  "modern"  Cairo.  The  proposal  in- 
cluded a  wooden  replica  of  La  Scala  opera  house  in  Milan.  The 
structure  was  to  host  the  premier  of  Giuseppe  Verdi's  opera  Aida. 
Ismail's  efforts  to  build  a  modern  Cairo  resulted  in  a  separation — 
still  apparent  today — between  the  western  part  of  the  city,  called 
Al  Izbakiya  Gardens  (which  is  European)  and  the  eastern  part 
(which  is  Arabic). 

Cairo  has  continued  to  grow  rapidly  since  1850,  when  its  popu- 
lation was  approximately  250,000.  By  1930  the  population  had 
reached  1  million.  Throughout  the  twentieth  century,  it  has  been 
the  most  populous  city  in  Africa  and  the  Arab  world.  Cairo's  de- 
velopment has  been  most  intense  since  World  War  II,  and  has 
resulted  in  a  variety  of  problems.  The  city's  population,  growing 
about  300,000  per  year  in  the  1980s,  has  strained  urban  services 
to  the  breaking  point.  Public  transportation  was  woefully  inade- 
quate in  the  late  1980s,  with  about  one  of  every  four  buses  out  of 
commission  at  any  given  time.  Public  water  supplies,  sewer  facili- 
ties, and  trash  collection  were  all  overburdened  (see  Urban  Socie- 
ty, this  ch.).  Housing  was  perhaps  the  most  pressing  problem  because 
persistent  shortages  of  skilled  labor  and  construction  materials  ham- 
pered efforts  to  build  residential  units  quickly  enough  to  meet  de- 
mand. The  demand  for  moderately  priced  housing  was  especially 
high.  Some  people  resorted  to  clandestine  and  semilegal  housing 
arrangements;  as  many  as  200,000  wooden,  cardboard,  and  metal 
huts  were  constructed  on  the  roofs  of  apartment  buildings.  An  esti- 
mated 500,000  people  were  living  in  the  mausoleums  in  the  city's 
cemeteries. 

Alexandria  is  Egypt's  second  largest  city.  Located  on  the  coast- 
line of  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  it  has  been  an  important  port  ever 


107 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


since  it  was  founded  by  Alexander  the  Great  more  than  2,300  years 
ago.  The  city  declined  dramatically  during  the  sixteenth  to  eigh- 
teenth centuries  when  its  maritime  trade  with  Europe  virtually 
ceased  as  a  result  of  new  sea  routes  around  Africa  to  India.  When 
the  French  landed  at  Alexandria  in  1798,  barely  10,000  people  lived 
in  the  city.  Alexandria  grew  substantially  in  the  nineteenth  century 
because  of  industrialization  and  Egypt's  emergence  as  an  exporter 
of  agricultural  commodities  to  Europe.  Between  1821  and  1846, 
Alexandria's  population  grew  from  12,500  to  164,000.  By  the  end 
of  the  century,  its  population  had  almost  doubled  to  320,000. 
Between  1947  and  1986,  Alexandria's  population  grew  from  700,000 
to  2.7  million. 

In  1990  Alexandria  was  a  major  industrial  center  that  included 
two  large  oil  refineries;  chemical,  cement,  and  metal  plants;  tex- 
tile mills;  and  food  processing  operations.  Alexandria  is  also  the 
country's  most  important  harbor  for  exports  and  imports. 

Egypt's  third  and  fourth  largest  cities,  Giza  and  Shubra  al  Khay- 
mah,  are  part  of  Greater  Cairo.  The  rapid  growth  of  these  cities 
since  1947  is  directly  related  to  the  growth  of  Cairo.  Giza  (1986  popu- 
lation 1.6  million),  opposite  the  Nile  River  island  of  Ar  Rawdah, 
is  the  location  of  Cairo  University  and  the  famed  Pyramids  of  Giza. 
Shubra  al  Khaymah  (1986  population  500,000),  on  the  Nile  north 
of  Cairo's  Bulaq  quarter,  is  a  manufacturing  suburb  with  a  heavy 
concentration  of  textile  factories. 

As  of  1989,  Egypt  had  nine  other  cities  with  populations  great- 
er than  200,000.  In  the  Delta  were  Al  Mahallah  al  Kubra  with  a 
population  of  375,000,  Tanta  with  365,000,  Al  Mansurah  with 
335,000,  Az  Zaqaziqwith  260,000,  and  Damanhur  with  215,000. 
These  five  cities  were  local  administrative,  commercial,  and 
manufacturing  centers.  At  the  northern  and  southern  termini  of  the 
Suez  Canal  were  Port  Said  with  a  population  of  358,000  and  Suez 
with  271 ,000.  In  Upper  Egypt  were  Asyut  on  the  Nile  with  a  popu- 
lation of  250,000  and  Al  Fayyum,  an  oasis  with  a  population  of 
215,000.  Five  other  cities  had  populations  ranging  between  150,00 
and  200,000.  These  included  Al  Minya,  Aswan,  and  Bani  Suwayf 
in  Upper  Egypt;  Kafr  ad  Dawwar  in  the  Delta;  and  Ismailia  (Al 
Ismailiyah)  on  the  Suez  Canal. 

Emigration 

The  1986  census  estimated  that  2.25  million  Egyptian  nationals 
were  working  outside  the  country.  Only  small  numbers  of  Egyp- 
tians, primarily  professionals,  had  left  the  country  in  search  of  em- 
ployment before  1974.  Then,  in  that  year,  the  government  lifted 
all  restrictions  on  labor  migration.  The  move  came  at  a  time  when 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


oil-rich  Arab  states  of  the  Persian  Gulf  and  neighboring  Libya  were 
implementing  major  development  programs  with  funds  generated 
by  the  quadrupling  of  oil  revenues  in  1973.  By  1975  an  estimated 
500,000  Egyptians,  mostly  single,  unskilled  men,  were  working  on 
construction  sites  in  Libya,  Saudi  Arabia,  Kuwait,  and  the  United 
Arab  Emirates.  At  least  50,000  others  were  employed  elsewhere 
in  the  Middle  East.  By  1980  more  than  1  million  Egyptians  were 
working  abroad.  That  number  doubled  by  1982.  The  emergence 
of  foreign  job  opportunities  alleviated  some  of  the  pressure  on 
domestic  employment.  Many  of  these  workers  sent  a  significant 
portion  of  their  earnings  to  their  families  in  Egypt.  As  early  as  1979, 
these  remittances  amounted  to  US$2  billion,  a  sum  equivalent  to 
the  country's  combined  earnings  from  cotton  exports,  Suez  Canal 
transit  fees,  and  tourism  (see  Remittances,  ch.  3). 

The  foreign  demand  for  Egyptian  labor  peaked  in  1983,  at  which 
time  an  estimated  3.28  million  Egyptians  workers  were  employed 
abroad.  After  that  year,  political  and  economic  developments  in 
the  Arab  oil-producing  countries  caused  a  retrenchment  in  employ- 
ment opportunities.  The  Iran-Iraq  War  and  the  decline  in  oil  prices 
forced  the  Persian  Gulf  oil  industry  into  a  recession,  which  caused 
many  Egyptians  to  lose  their  jobs.  Up  to  1  million  workers  returned 
home.  Most  of  the  expatriate  workforce  remained  abroad  but  new 
labor  migration  from  Egypt  slowed  considerably.  In  late  1989,  the 
number  of  Egyptian  workers  abroad  still  exceeded  2.2  million. 

The  majority  of  Egyptian  labor  migrants  expected  to  return  home 
eventually,  but  thousands  left  their  country  each  year  with  the  in- 
tention of  permanentiy  resetding  in  various  Arab  countries,  Europe, 
or  North  America.  These  emigrants  tended  to  be  highly  educated 
professionals,  mostly  doctors,  engineers,  and  teachers.  Their  depar- 
ture caused  a  serious  "brain  drain"  for  Egypt.  Iraq  and,  to  a  lesser 
extent,  Kuwait  were  the  Arab  countries  most  likely  to  accept  skilled 
Egyptians  as  permanent  residents.  Iraq,  which  sought  agriculturists 
trained  in  irrigation  techniques,  encouraged  Egyptian  farmers  to 
move  to  the  sparsely  populated  but  fertile  lands  in  the  south.  Out- 
side of  the  Arab  countries,  the  United  States  was  a  preferred  desti- 
nation. Between  1970  and  1985,  about  45,000  Egyptians  immigrated 
to  the  United  States. 

In  1989  there  were  several  thousand  Americans,  Europeans,  and 
other  non- Arabs  in  Egypt  working  on  projects  sponsored  by  for- 
eign governments,  international  agencies,  and  private  charitable 
groups.  The  United  States  stationed  more  than  2,000  diplomatic 
personnel  in  the  country.  The  majority  of  these  personnel  worked 
for  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development  (AID), 
which  managed  the  largest  of  the  many  economic  aid  programs  in 


109 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Egypt.  Projects  financed  by  AID  during  the  1980s  included  irri- 
gation networks,  rural  sanitation  systems,  pest  control,  family  plan- 
ning, and  communications  development. 

Since  1948  Egypt  has  been  a  haven  for  Arab  refugees  and  polit- 
ical dissidents.  The  number  of  exiles  has  fluctuated  in  response  to 
political  developments  in  other  Arab  countries  and  to  Egypt's  re- 
lations with  the  different  regimes.  In  1989  Egypt  was  host  to  several 
thousand  Palestinian  refugees  and  hundreds  of  exiles  from  Libya, 
Sudan,  and  various  countries  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  especially 
the  Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North  Yemen)  and  the  People's 
Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen  (South  Yemen).  Egyptian  accu- 
sations that  Libya  had  sponsored  terrorist  acts  against  Libyan  ex- 
iles in  Egypt  fueled  tension  between  the  two  countries  in  the  late 
1970s  and  1980s. 

Minorities 

Although  the  ancestors  of  the  Egyptian  people  include  many  races 
and  ethnic  groups,  among  them  Africans,  Arabs,  Berbers,  Greeks, 
Persians,  Romans,  and  Turks,  the  population  today  is  relatively 
homogeneous  linguistically  and  culturally.  Nevertheless,  approxi- 
mately 3  percent  of  Egyptians  belong  to  minority  groups.  Linguistic 
minorities  include  small  communities  of  Armenians  and  Greeks, 
principally  in  the  cities  of  Cairo  and  Alexandria;  groups  of  Berber 
origin  in  the  oases  of  the  Western  Desert;  and  Nubians  living  in 
cities  in  Lower  Egypt  and  in  villages  clustered  along  the  Nile  in 
Upper  Egypt.  The  Arabic- speaking  beduins  (nomads)  in  the 
Western  and  Eastern  Deserts  and  the  Sinai  Peninsula  constitute 
the  principal  cultural  minority.  Several  hundred  Europeans,  mostly 
Italians  and  French,  also  lived  in  Egypt. 

In  1989  an  estimated  350,000  Greeks  constituted  Egypt's  lar- 
gest non-Arab  minority.  Greeks  have  lived  in  Egypt  since  before 
the  time  of  Alexander  the  Great.  For  centuries  they  have  remained 
culturally,  linguistically,  and  religiously  separate  from  the  Egyp- 
tians. In  1990  the  majority  of  Greeks  lived  in  Alexandria,  although 
many  resided  in  Cairo. 

Armenians  have  also  lived  in  Egypt  for  several  centuries,  although 
their  numbers  have  declined  as  a  result  of  heavy  emigration  since 
the  1952  Revolution.  In  1989  the  Armenian  community  in  Egypt 
was  estimated  at  12,000.  Cairo  was  traditionally  the  center  of  Arme- 
nian culture  in  Egypt,  but  many  Armenians  also  lived  in  Alex- 
andria. 

An  estimated  6,000  Egyptians  of  Berber  origin  lived  in  the 
Western  Desert  near  the  border  with  Libya.  They  were  ethnically 
related  to  the  Berber  peoples  of  North  Africa.  The  largest  Berber 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

community  lived  in  Siwah  Oasis.  The  Berbers  are  Muslims,  but 
they  have  their  own  language,  which  is  not  related  to  Arabic,  and 
certain  unique  cultural  practices. 

About  160,000  Nubians,  also  Muslims,  lived  in  Egypt  in  1990. 
Most  Nubians  lived  in  cities,  especially  Cairo,  Alexandria,  and  ur- 
ban areas  along  the  Suez  Canal.  In  the  past,  Nubians  had  lived  in 
villages  along  the  Nile  from  Aswan  southward  to  about  500  kilo- 
meters inside  Sudan.  Before  the  construction  of  the  Aswan  High 
Dam  forced  their  resettlement,  three  linguistically  separate  groups 
of  Nubians  lived  in  this  region — the  Kenuzi  in  northern  Nubia; 
the  beduin-descended  Arabs  in  central  Nubia;  and  the  Fadija- 
speaking  people  in  southern  Nubia  near  Abu  Simbel  (Abu  Sun- 
bul).  Isolated  geographically  and  politically  for  centuries,  the  Nubian 
Valley  was  only  rarely  under  the  control  of  any  central  govern- 
ment. Until  Egypt's  1952  Revolution,  Nubia  lacked  strong  politi- 
cal links  with  Lower  Egypt.  Nevertheless,  Nubia  had  persistent 
economic  ties  to  the  rest  of  Egypt.  Since  at  least  the  nineteenth 
century,  Nubian  men  have  migrated  to  the  cities  of  Lower  Egypt, 
where  they  typically  worked  for  several  years  at  a  time  as  merchants 
and  wage  laborers.  Nubian  society  adapted  to  the  migrants' 
prolonged  absences.  Complex  kinship  and  property  relations  ena- 
bled men  to  leave  and  still  take  care  of  their  families,  guard  their 
wives,  and  ensure  protection  of  their  herds  and  crops. 

After  1952  the  central  government  increased  its  involvement  in 
Nubia,  mosdy  by  building  schools  and  public  health  services.  With 
the  construction  of  the  Aswan  High  Dam,  the  government's  poli- 
cies in  the  area  destroyed  Nubia,  as  water  inundated  the  Nubian 
Valley.  In  1963  and  1964  the  government  resettled  approximately 
50,000  Nubians  to  thirty- three  villages  around  Kawm  Umbu,  about 
fifty  kilometers  north  of  the  city  of  Aswan.  As  compensation,  the 
government  gave  the  Nubians  new  land  and  homes  and  provided 
them  with  some  financial  support  until  their  new  holdings  were 
productive. 

Nubians  were  dissatisfied  with  their  resettlement  for  several  rea- 
sons. They  did  not  like  their  government-built,  cement-block 
houses,  which  were  uncomfortable  and  vastly  different  in  design 
from  their  old  homes.  Further,  their  resettlement  at  Kawm  Umbu 
disrupted  family  ties  and  ignored  historical  rivalries  among  the  three 
Nubian  ethnic  groups.  The  government  also  required  the  Nubian 
farmers  to  join  agricultural  cooperatives  and  pressured  them  to  cul- 
tivate sugarcane,  a  crop  that  had  not  been  part  of  their  traditional 
culture.  Dissatisfaction  with  the  resettlement  program  led  many 
to  migrate  to  cities.  A  large  number  of  migrants  rented  their  land 
to  sharecroppers  and  tenants  from  Upper  Egypt.  After  the  Aswan 


111 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


High  Dam  was  completed  in  1971,  a  handful  of  Nubians  left  the 
resettlement  area  and  returned  to  Nubia,  where  they  established 
farming  villages  along  the  shores  of  Lake  Nasser.  By  the  early  1980s, 
Nubians  had  constructed  at  least  four  villages,  complete  with  tradi- 
tional homes. 

Egypt's  largest  minority  group  consisted  of  several  tribes  of  bed- 
uins  who  traditionally  lived  in  the  Eastern  and  Western  Deserts 
and  the  Sinai  Peninsula.  Because  the  beduins  spoke  Arabic  dialects, 
the  government  did  not  consider  them  ethnic  minorities.  Neverthe- 
less, almost  everyone  in  Egypt — including  the  beduins — considered 
these  people  as  culturally  distinct.  The  beduins  have  historically 
been  nomads,  but  since  the  nineteenth  century,  most  tribes  have 
adopted  sedentary  agricultural  life-styles,  in  response  to  various 
government  incentives  (see  Social  Organization,  this  ch.).  Among 
the  beduins,  traditional  tribal  social  structure  comprised  lineage 
segments  linked  to  specific  territories,  water,  and  pasture.  Descent 
was  patrilineal,  and  most  beduins  sought  patterns  of  kinship  and 
marriage  that  would  strengthen  the  bonds  between  patrilineally 
related  males.  A  patrilineage  acted  as  a  corporate  group  that  shared 
the  home  territory's  resources  and  lived  together  for  most  of  the 
year.  In  the  event  of  a  feud,  the  group  would  collectively  seek 
revenge,  either  through  the  death  of  the  other  group's  males  or 
through  collective  payment  of  compensation.  A  family's  livelihood 
depended  on  its  sheep,  goats,  and  camels.  Inheritance  customs 
usually  kept  the  family  herds  in  the  hands  of  fathers,  sons,  brothers, 
and  cousins  related  through  the  male  line. 

In  1 990  the  total  number  of  beduins  in  Egypt  ranged  between 
500,000  and  1  million — less  than  1  percent  of  the  country's  popu- 
lation. Over  the  centuries,  their  numbers  fluctuated  as  governments 
alternately  ignored  and  persecuted  them.  In  the  1890s,  beduins 
comprised  as  much  as  10  percent  of  the  total  population.  During 
the  twentieth  century,  sedentarization  and  urban  migration  have 
caused  many  beduins  to  become  assimilated  into  Egypt's  dominant 
culture. 

Since  the  1952  Revolution,  Egypt  has  intensified  its  efforts  to 
persuade  beduins  to  abandon  their  nomadic  life-style.  The  beduins 
of  the  Western  Desert  generally  resisted  pressure  to  become  farm- 
ers. Some  beduins  engaged  in  the  profitable  trade  of  smuggling 
goods  across  the  Libyan  border  into  Egypt  while  others  became 
involved  in  the  hotel  and  restaurant  business  in  the  summer  tourist 
town  of  Marsa  Matruh.  The  beduins  in  the  Eastern  Desert  con- 
tinued to  maintain  close  ties  with  nomads  on  the  Arabian  Penin- 
sula and  profited  from  the  high  demand  for  meat  and  livestock  in 
Saudi  Arabia.  The  Aswan  High  Dam  submerged  some  summer 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


pasture  and  disrupted  some  migratory  routes  along  the  Red  Sea 
coast  that  beduins  customarily  used  in  bringing  their  herds  to  Nu- 
bia during  that  season.  Beduin  settlements  tended  to  be  overcrowd- 
ed, a  situation  that  exacerbated  feuding  among  various  lineages. 
And,  as  beduin  herds  encroached  on  cropland,  friction  between 
agriculturists  and  pastoralists  intensified.  An  increasing  number  of 
beduin  families  began  to  emulate  tribal  leaders  by  sending  sons 
to  college  to  prepare  them  for  civil  service  careers  in  local  govern- 
ment. 

Social  Organization 

In  1990  Egypt  remained  under  the  social,  political,  and  cultural 
dominance  of  an  elite,  a  pattern  it  has  retained  since  pharaonic 
(see  Glossary)  times.  Although  the  personal,  ideological  orienta- 
tion, and  cultural  values  of  the  ruling  class  changed  drastically  after 
the  1952  Revolution,  the  gulf  between  the  urban  elite  and  the  popu- 
lar masses  remained  large.  A  group  called  the  Free  Officers  came 
to  power  in  1952.  The  group,  which  included  people  such  as  Gamal 
Abdul  Nasser  (former  president  of  Egypt),  Anwar  as  Sadat  (also 
former  president  of  Egypt),  and  Husni  Mubarak  (current  presi- 
dent of  Egypt),  played  an  instrumental  role  in  carrying  out  the  1952 
Revolution.  The  Free  Officers,  along  with  their  civilian  allies,  com- 
prised a  strongly  nationalistic  cadre  who  believed  the  former  rul- 
ing class  had  betrayed  the  country's  welfare  to  foreign  interests. 
The  Free  Officers,  many  of  whom  were  not  from  the  top  social 
classes,  altered  the  country's  structure  of  wealth  and  power.  But 
according  to  some  scholars,  the  Free  Officers'  policies  merely 
changed  the  membership  of  the  elite  rather  than  causing  its  demise. 

The  prerevolutionary  elite  rose  to  their  position  of  power  through 
the  country's  entry  into  the  world  agricultural  commodity  market 
in  the  nineteenth  century  (see  Rural  Society,  this  ch.).  The  upper 
classes  consisted  of  the  royal  family,  absentee  landlords,  profes- 
sionals, and  business  people  (merchants,  fmanciers,  and  a  few  in- 
dustrialists). A  disproportionately  large  number  of  foreigners 
belonged  to  the  elite  groups  in  Cairo  and  Alexandria.  Opportuni- 
ties for  social  mobility  changed  in  response  to  the  transformation 
of  the  country's  economy.  A  prosperous  landowning  family,  for 
example,  might  choose  to  secure  its  status  by  sending  one  son  to 
Al  Azhar  University  for  a  career  in  religion  and  another  to  one 
of  the  newly  established  secular  universities  while  encouraging  still 
another  to  manage  the  family's  estates. 

The  civil  bureaucracy  established  by  Muhammad  Ali  (1805-49) 
and  elaborated  under  British  hegemony  provided  a  career  for  sons 
of  middle-  and  upper  middle-class  families.  It  gave  employment 


113 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  growing  number  of  Egyptian  professionals  (mostly  lawyers, 
doctors,  and  engineers)  and  fueled  the  expansion  of  secular  edu- 
cation. The  government  bureaucracy  employed  the  sons  of  land- 
lords, of  prosperous  farmers,  and  of  civil  servants  themselves. 

Despite  the  major  social  changes  in  Egypt  between  1800  and 
1950,  the  upper-class  elite  continued  to  dominate  politics  in  the 
country.  The  educated  middle  class  increasingly  resented  the  elite's 
control  of  government.  This  resentment  was  particularly  strong 
among  military  officers  because  their  middle-class  origins  impeded 
their  advancement  to  the  top  decision-making  ranks.  Among  these 
military  officers  were  the  Free  Officers. 

Egypt's  new  political  elite  pledged  to  rid  the  country  of  foreign 
influences  and  to  broaden  economic  opportunities  for  the  general 
population.  Nasser  implemented  numerous  socialist  policies  designed 
to  alter  the  pattern  of  class  stratification.  The  June  1967  War,  how- 
ever, halted  government  initiatives  for  redistributing  wealth.  Begin- 
ning in  1974,  the  government  introduced  a  series  of  laws  intended 
to  restore  and  promote  private  ownership  of  previously  socialized 
sectors  of  the  economy.  These  new  policies,  known  as  infitah  (open- 
ing or  open  door;  see  Glossary),  helped  consolidate  the  class  struc- 
ture. In  1990  Egypt  continued  to  be  a  country  with  a  skewed 
distribution  of  wealth;  about  2,000  families  had  annual  incomes 
in  excess  of  £E35,000  (for  the  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see 
Glossary)  while  more  than  4  million  people  earned  less  than  £E200. 

Urban  Society 

Although  the  majority  of  Egyptians  lived  in  villages  as  recently 
as  1988,  cities,  which  have  been  important  in  Egypt  for  more  than 
2,000  years,  continued  to  be  important.  Traditional  urban  society 
was  more  heterogeneous  than  in  most  other  areas  of  the  Middle 
East.  Quarters,  segregated  along  religious  and  occupational  lines, 
were  effectively  self-governing  in  their  internal  affairs.  As  in  vil- 
lages, kinship  relations  provided  a  basis  for  solidarity,  and  rela- 
tionships among  families  frequently  overrode  differences  in  wealth 
and  social  position.  Prosperous  families  assumed  leadership  roles 
and  took  responsibility  for  their  less  fortunate  kin  and  neighbors. 
The  rapid  urbanization  that  began  in  the  nineteenth  century  created 
large  residential  and  industrial  suburbs  and  led  to  the  emergence 
of  a  professional  middle  class  and  a  working  class.  Nevertheless, 
elite  wealthy  families  that  had  ruled  Egypt  for  generations,  and 
in  some  cases  for  centuries,  continued  to  dominate  the  cities  until 
the  early  1950s. 

The  postrevolutionary  ruling  elite  was  believed  by  many  to  have 
come  from  rural  backgrounds.  In  reality  most  of  the  elite  came 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


from  the  urban  middle  class  and  were  sons  of  mid-  and  low-ranking 
bureaucrats.  A  few  members  of  the  new  elite  came  from  the  ranks 
of  the  old  elite,  although  most  influential  members  of  the  new  elite 
were  military  officers.  Most  of  these  officers  held  positions  in  the 
government  agencies  that  were  in  charge  of  national  security,  but 
others  also  held  important  positions  in  local  government  and  the 
diplomatic  service.  Below  the  top  echelons  of  government,  however, 
the  military  played  a  less  important  role.  This  situation  was  reflected 
in  the  fact  that  since  1952,  only  about  6  percent  of  individuals  in 
lower-level  administrative  posts  had  attended  a  military  college. 
Educated  bureaucrats  from  the  middle  and  upper-middle  classes 
continued  to  fill  the  bulk  of  civil  service  posts.  Since  1952  three 
of  every  four  bureaucrats  have  come  from  cities,  with  one  of  every 
two  coming  from  Cairo.  About  a  third  had  fathers  who  were  civil 
servants.  Although  the  military's  formal  presence  in  the  bureaucracy 
was  limited,  officers  clearly  made  the  most  important  decisions. 
The  emergence  of  a  military  elite  led  to  a  new  kind  of  civil  ser- 
vant, the  officer- technocrat.  Politically  ambitious  professionals  had 
a  significant  incentive  to  join  the  officers  corps,  and  officers  were 
motivated  to  acquire  professional  training  (see  Training  and  Edu- 
cation, ch.  5). 

Although  the  prerevolutionary  elite  lost  its  status  as  the  ruling 
class,  it  was  not  eliminated.  The  land  redistribution  program  of 
the  1950s  and  socialist  policies  of  the  1960s  compelled  many  old 
elite  families  to  sell  agricultural  and  industrial  properties  that  had 
been  important  sources  of  their  wealth.  Nevertheless,  most  of  these 
families  were  able  to  maintain  their  social  and  economic  positions 
through  their  domination  of  the  prestigious  professions.  The  old 
elite  had  highly  valued  education  before  the  revolution,  and  many 
families  had  sent  at  least  one  son  abroad  for  professional  training. 
Thus,  the  old  elite  had  lost  its  political  influence  after  the  1952  Revo- 
lution, but  its  investments  in  education  enabled  its  offspring  to 
emerge  as  the  doctors,  engineers,  and  top-level  administrators  of 
the  new  regime. 

After  1974  the  government  encouraged  the  growth  of  private  en- 
terprise through  infitah  policies,  and  a  large  number  of  people  from 
old  elite  families  emerged  as  part  of  a  new  class  of  wealthy  con- 
tractors, financiers,  and  industrialists.  Many  of  these  people,  who 
had  held  senior-level  civil  service  positions,  switched  to  private  prac- 
tice, industry,  or  commerce  because  their  government  salaries  had 
been  relatively  low.  A  person  holding  a  ministerial-level  position 
in  government  could  earn  up  to  1,000  percent  more  by  taking  a 
post  in  the  private  sector.  Joint  ventures  between  Egyptian  and 
foreign  firms,  partnerships  for  Egyptians  in  foreign  firms,  and 


115 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


commissions  for  Egyptians  dealing  with  private  companies  all  con- 
tributed to  the  formation  of  a  new  entrepreneurial  class.  By  1990 
prerevolutionary  elite  families  remained  financially  secure  and  so- 
cially prominent  and  had  regained  some  political  influence. 

The  middle  class,  emulating  the  old  elite,  recognized  the  link  be- 
tween higher  education  and  prestigious  civil  service  jobs.  The  govern- 
ment, which  had  initiated  the  development  of  secular  education  as 
part  of  the  effort  to  staff  the  civil  bureaucracy  with  trained  person- 
nel, has  provided  a  secure,  well-paid  position  to  virtually  every 
college-educated  applicant  since  the  1920s.  Prior  to  the  1952  Rev- 
olution, postsecondary  education  was  costiy,  and  middle-class 
families  who  were  determined  to  send  at  least  one  son  to  college 
usually  endured  considerable  financial  hardship.  Most  middle-class 
youth  could  not  afford  to  attend  college,  but  they  could  still  gain 
entry  into  the  less  prestigious,  lower  civil-service  ranks  by  obtain- 
ing a  high  school  diploma.  Before  1950  secondary  schools  were  not 
free,  but  middle-class  families  could  generally  afford  the  fees.  As 
an  increasing  number  of  middle-class  high  school  graduates  sought 
government  employment,  the  bureaucracy  became  overstaffed  with 
poorly  paid,  white-collar  workers  who  had  little  prospect  of  advance- 
ment into  top  administrative  positions,  most  of  which  were  held 
by  university  graduates.  Frustration  among  low-ranking  civil  ser- 
vants was  an  important  factor  leading  to  the  1952  Revolution. 

After  the  1952  Revolution,  the  Free  Officers  increased  career- 
advancement  opportunities  in  government,  improved  pay  scales 
in  the  civil  service,  and  expanded  public  education  opportunities 
at  all  levels.  To  meet  middle-class  demands  for  equitable  access 
to  higher  education,  the  government  abolished  college  and  univer- 
sity fees  and  introduced  competitive  admission  based  on  special 
entrance  examinations.  The  state  continued  to  be  the  principal 
employer  of  college  graduates.  A  government  decree  in  1964  re- 
quired the  civil  service  to  offer  jobs  to  all  Egyptians  holding  degrees 
from  postsecondary  colleges  and  institutes.  During  the  early  and 
mid-1960s,  when  Egypt's  economy  was  socialized,  the  public  sec- 
tor employed  thousands  of  new  mid-  and  upper-rank  administra- 
tors, as  well  as  tens  of  thousands  of  high  school  graduates.  The 
annual  increase  in  the  number  of  university  graduates  soon  greatly 
exceeded  the  number  of  positions  available  in  the  civil  service.  By 
the  mid-1970s,  the  civil  service  employed  more  than  1.3  million 
people,  and  overstaffing  became  a  serious  problem  in  all  govern- 
ment ministries.  After  the  government  introduced  the  infitah  in 
1974,  it  no  longer  felt  obliged  to  hire  every  college  graduate.  In- 
dividual ministries  determined  the  number  of  new  positions  that 
needed  to  be  filled  each  year;  once  the  quota  was  met,  the  names 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  other  applicants  were  placed  on  waiting  lists.  During  the  1980s, 
an  average  of  250,000  college  graduates  were  waiting  at  any  given 
time  to  be  called  for  government  jobs;  the  typical  applicant  remained 
on  the  waiting  list  for  more  than  three  years.  This  situation  caused 
unrest  among  middle-  and  lower-middle-income  students  who  had 
hoped  that  higher  education  would  be  their  ticket  to  upward  mobility. 

Whereas  the  middle  class  was  preoccupied  with  education  and 
civil  service  careers,  most  urban  Egyptians,  who  belonged  to  the 
lower  class,  were  concerned  about  earning  a  livelihood  in  an  econ- 
omy characterized  by  persistent  and  extensive  unemployment  and 
underemployment  (see  Employment,  ch.  3).  In  terms  of  occupa- 
tions and  incomes,  the  lower  class  was  very  heterogeneous  and  com- 
prised three  main  groups:  service  providers,  skilled  workers,  and 
unskilled  laborers.  The  first  group  included  artisans,  bakers,  bar- 
bers, butchers,  carpenters,  office  and  sales  clerks,  cobblers,  drivers, 
household  and  hotel  domestic  workers,  janitors,  small  shopkeep- 
ers, tailors,  street  vendors,  waiters,  and  numerous  other  providers 
of  urban  services.  The  majority  of  service  workers  were  involved 
in  the  large  informal  sector  of  the  economy;  they  were  not  covered 
by  minimum  wage  laws  and  did  not  participate  in  the  social  secu- 
rity program.  A  few  service  workers,  primarily  talented  artisans 
and  enterprising  shopkeepers,  earned  sufficient  money  to  support 
a  family  without  the  assistance  of  a  second  income;  the  more  suc- 
cessful among  them  actually  merged  into  the  lower  middle  class. 
The  majority  of  service  workers,  however,  were  generally  unable 
to  provide  adequate  food  and  shelter  for  a  family  on  the  income 
from  one  job. 

The  second  lower-class  group  consisted  of  skilled  workers  who 
were  usually  employed  in  private  or  public  factories.  Many  also 
worked  in  the  construction  industry  as  electricians,  masons, 
mechanics,  painters,  and  plumbers.  Workers  in  this  group  tended 
to  prefer  jobs  in  the  public  sector,  which  employed  approximately 
42  percent  of  the  industrial  labor  force  in  the  1980s,  because 
government-owned  manufacturing  enterprises  guaranteed  job  secu- 
rity, paid  salaries  that  were  at  or  above  the  legal  minimum  wage, 
and  provided  benefits  such  as  routine  promotions,  raises,  paid  holi- 
days, and  sick  leave.  Most  skilled  workers  were  generally  more 
financially  secure  than  most  service  workers.  Nevertheless,  the  typi- 
cal working  male  who  headed  a  household  found  it  difficult  to  sup- 
port a  family  on  one  income.  To  supplement  family  incomes,  most 
workers  held  two  jobs,  permitted  their  wives  or  unmarried  daugh- 
ters to  work,  or  received  remittances  from  family  members  work- 
ing abroad.  Many  skilled  workers  also  migrated  to  other  Arab 
countries  where  they  received  higher  salaries. 


117 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Unskilled  laborers  comprised  the  poorest  stratum  of  urban  soci- 
ety. Most  of  them  either  lacked  permanent  jobs  or  were  employed 
in  low-wage,  menial  jobs  such  as  street  sweeping,  trash  collection, 
sewage-system  maintenance,  and  grave  digging.  Males  with  no  skills 
frequently  found  temporary  work  on  construction  sites,  especially 
in  Greater  Cairo.  Intermittent  work  was  also  available  on  the  docks 
of  Alexandria  and  the  cities  along  the  Suez  Canal.  During  the  1980s, 
unskilled  workers  headed  most  of  the  estimated  35  percent  of  ur- 
ban households  with  incomes  below  the  poverty  line.  According 
to  a  study  by  AID,  about  half  of  Egypt's  urban  population  lived 
in  absolute  poverty,  and  most  of  these  lived  in  households  headed 
by  unskilled  workers. 

The  infitah  generally  had  an  adverse  impact  on  the  lower  class. 
Despite  the  substantial  rise  in  wages  after  the  mid-1970s,  real  in- 
comes failed  to  keep  pace  with  the  rampant  inflation.  Although 
extensive  government  subsidies  on  basic  necessities  alleviated  the 
worst  effects  of  inflation,  most  lower-class  families  spent  up  to  75 
percent  of  their  budgets  on  food.  When  the  government  announced 
in  January  1977  that  it  would  eliminate  subsidies  on  selected  "lux- 
ury" items,  including  beer,  French  bread,  refined  flour,  and  granu- 
lated sugar,  the  poor  rioted  in  cities  throughout  the  Delta  and  Nile 
Valley.  In  Cairo  the  police  were  unable  to  control  the  violence, 
and  the  government  called  in  the  army  to  restore  order.  The  govern- 
ment canceled  its  plan  to  abolish  certain  subsidies,  and  since  1977, 
it  has  periodically  expanded  the  whole  subsidy  program. 

In  addition  to  the  food  subsidies,  some  members  of  the  lower- 
class  benefited  from  remittances  sent  to  them  from  family  members 
who  were  working  abroad.  About  nine  of  every  ten  Egyptians  work- 
ing in  other  countries  were  from  the  lower  class.  At  least  1  million 
poor  families  received  remittances  from  fathers  or  sons  who  were 
working  in  Libya  or  the  Arab  countries  of  the  Persian  Gulf.  The 
remittances  raised  household  incomes  by  between  100  percent  and 
700  percent,  resulting  in  significantly  higher  living  standards.  The 
absence  of  so  many  workers  had  also  created  a  general  shortage 
of  trained  personnel,  a  situation  that  permitted  skilled  workers  to 
bargain  for  increasingly  higher  wages.  In  the  early  1980s,  for  ex- 
ample, a  free-lance  tile-setter  could  earn  about  as  much  in  one  week 
as  a  government  minister  could  earn  in  a  month. 

Although  the  living  standards  of  poor  families  receiving  remit- 
tances improved  after  1974,  the  lower  class,  like  the  middle  class, 
was  generally  skeptical  of  the  infitah.  Both  classes  benefited  from 
Nasser's  policies,  which  expanded  access  to  education  and  employ- 
ment opportunities,  but  they  generally  believed  that  reduced  govern- 
ment spending  on  social  programs,  pared  public  sector  employment, 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  increased  incentives  for  private  enterprise  would  undermine 
gains  achieved  in  the  1950s  and  1960s.  The  upper  class,  which  ac- 
counted for  less  than  10  percent  of  the  total  population,  supported 
the  infitah  because  they  benefited  from  policies  aimed  at  easing 
import-export  restrictions  and  from  programs  designed  to  attract 
foreign  investment. 

Rural  Society 

Until  the  time  of  Napoleon's  invasion,  Mamluk  fief  holders,  large 
landowners,  and  the  chiefs  of  nomadic  tribes  controlled  rural  Egypt. 
This  rural  elite — a  small  fraction  of  the  populace — derived  its  wealth 
from  land,  livestock,  and  the  collection  of  taxes  on  commission. 
Beduin  shaykhs  lived  among  and  were  related  to  the  tribal  people 
over  whom  they  exercised  jurisdiction.  The  large  landowners  lived 
in  villages  and  were  usually  related  to  some  of  the  other  families. 
The  fief  holders,  predominantly  Turkish  and  Circassian  in  origin, 
had  the  most  tenuous  links  to  the  villages  because  they  tended  to 
reside  in  cities  and  often  brutalized  the  peasants  on  their  estates. 
Most  fellahin  (sing.,  fellah;  peasant,  from  the  Arabic  verb,  falaha, 
to  till  the  soil),  were  socioeconomically  similar.  Village  headmen 
allocated  families  usufruct  right  to  village  land,  but  the  village  as 
a  whole  was  responsible  for  tax  payments. 

Rural  society  changed  during  the  nineteenth  century.  Rulers 
made  it  easier  for  individuals  to  own  land,  and  they  held  individu- 
als responsible  for  tax  payments.  Large  land  grants  to  court  favorites 
and  extensive  land  registration  frauds  resulted  in  concentrated  land- 
holdings  and  an  increased  number  of  people  who  owned  large  pieces 
of  land.  During  this  period,  the  government  gave  tribal  shaykhs 
substantial  land  grants  but  required  that  they  permanently  farm 
and  occupy  their  parcels.  The  move  caused  many  beduins  to  give 
up  their  nomadic  way  of  life.  Settled  beduins  gradually  became 
liable  for  the  same  taxes  imposed  on  the  fellahin. 

Granting  land  (and  government  administrative  posts)  only  to 
shaykhs  undermined  tribal  loyalty  and  solidarity.  The  process  created 
a  class  of  wealthy  landholders  within  tribes,  and  the  landlord-tenant 
relationship  proved  inimical  to  the  strongly  egalitarian  traditions 
of  beduin  society.  As  tribal  loyalties  weakened,  shaykhs  began  mar- 
rying prosperous  settled  Egyptian  women,  while  poorer  nomads 
married  within  the  masses  of  peasants.  Many  of  the  beduin  and 
nontribal  owners  of  large  amounts  of  land  pursued  economic  op- 
portunities in  the  growing  cities  and  became  absentee  landlords. 
Many  absentee  landlords  specialized  in  commodity  trading  and  con- 
trolled Egypt's  expanding  agricultural  exports.  They  also  became 
involved  in  the  urban  credit  market.  The  fellahin  sharecroppers 


119 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


who  tilled  the  land  of  absentee  owners  became  increasingly  indebted 
to  the  local,  usually  usurious,  moneylenders  because  their  share 
of  crops  generally  provided  insufficient  income  to  support  a  family 
for  the  entire  period  between  harvests. 

Private  ownership  of  land  and  increased  production  of  export 
crops,  especially  cotton,  also  resulted  in  the  emergence  of  land- 
holders, who  owned  mid-sized  plots  of  five  to  fifty  feddans.  This 
group  competed  only  marginally  with  the  landed  elite  but  was 
prosperous  by  rural  standards.  In  1990  these  mid-sized  land- 
owners continued  to  play  an  integral  role  in  rural  society. 

Class  differentiation  increased  among  the  fellahin  throughout 
the  nineteenth  century.  Small  landholders  with  one  to  five  feddans 
became  poorer  but  were  better  off  than  tenants  and  sharecroppers. 
The  tenants  and  sharecroppers  were  better  off  than  a  growing  class 
of  landless  villagers  who  earned  their  livelihoods  from  casual  agricul- 
tural labor.  (By  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  one  of  every 
four  people  in  rural  areas  owned  no  land.)  Landowners  who  be- 
came indebted  or  fell  into  tax  arrears  easily  lost  their  holdings.  Until 
1926  the  government  could  expropriate  land  if  its  owner  owed  as 
little  as  £E2  in  back  taxes. 

From  the  mid-nineteenth  to  the  mid- twentieth  century,  large 
estates  continued  to  consolidate  their  holdings  while  small  farms 
fragmented  further  with  each  passing  generation.  From  1896  to 
the  eve  of  the  first  land-reform  legislation  in  1952,  the  number  of 
landowners  with  parcels  of  fewer  than  five  feddans  had  nearly  tri- 
pled. The  number  of  large  landowners  with  holdings  of  at  least 
fifty  feddans  declined  gradually  in  the  same  period.  Large  landowners 
controlled  33  percent  of  all  cultivated  land  by  1952  (only  0.5  per- 
cent of  all  landowners  were  large  landowners).  In  contrast,  about 
75  percent  of  all  rural  property  owners  were  peasants  with  hold- 
ings of  less  than  one  feddan.  This  group  owned  only  13  percent  of 
the  land.  The  average-sized  holding  in  the  under-  five  feddan  range 
dropped  by  50  percent.  The  number  of  mid-sized  holders  (owning 
six  to  fifty  feddans)  dropped  from  about  1 2  percent  to  5  percent  of 
all  landowners,  although  their  share  of  cultivated  land  remained 
nearly  constant  at  30  percent. 

Frequent  incidents  of  peasant  unrest  accompanied  the  changes 
in  rural  Egypt.  Peasant  uprisings,  which  were  usually  localized, 
were  all  sparked  by  complaints  such  as  high  taxes,  intolerable  land- 
lord imposts,  corvees,  foreclosures,  and  rising  rents.  Some  pro- 
tests spread  throughout  a  district  or  region  and  required  extensive 
military  intervention  to  restore  control.  Uprisings  often  took  on 
religious  or  messianic  overtones.  By  1950  when  an  estimated  60 
percent  of  the  rural  population  was  landless,  it  was  not  uncommon 


120 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


for  groups  of  discontented  sharecroppers  and  tenants  to  try  to  seize 
the  land  they  cultivated. 

The  Free  Officers  made  land  reform  a  priority  after  the  1952 
Revolution.  Continuing  into  the  1960s,  the  Free  Officers  promul- 
gated measures  that  distributed  about  700,000  feddans  of  land  to 
about  318,000  peasant  households,  i.e.,  13  percent  of  the  cultivated 
land  to  10  percent  of  the  country's  rural  families.  A  law  in  1952 
limited  individual  landownership  to  200  feddans.  The  law  also 
prevented  owners  from  transferring  more  than  100  feddans  to  mem- 
bers of  their  immediate  families;  excess  holdings  had  to  be  sold 
to  small  farmers  or  tenants.  The  law  also  limited  the  amount  of 
cash  rents  and  the  percentage  of  the  harvest  that  absentee  owners 
could  collect  from  tenants  and  sharecroppers.  A  law  in  1961  limited 
individual  ownership  to  100  feddans;  another  law  in  1969  limited 
it  to  50  feddans.  These  land  reforms  failed  to  eliminate  large  land- 
owners, but  they  did  reduce  the  group's  share  of  cultivated  land 
from  33  percent  of  the  total  to  15  percent  between  1952  and  1975. 

Peasant  smallholders  (with  fewer  than  five  feddans)  were  the  main 
beneficiaries  of  the  reforms.  In  1952  they  owned  about  35  percent 
(2.1  million  feddans)  of  Egypt's  cultivated  land.  By  1965  they  owned 
52  percent  (3.2  million  feddans).  Although  several  thousand  tenant 
and  sharecropping  families  were  able  to  purchase  tiny  parcels  (none 
greater  than  five  feddans)  and  join  the  ranks  of  smallholders,  the 
majority  of  landless  villagers  did  not  benefit  from  the  reforms.  Land- 
lords' creativity  in  exploiting  the  surplus  rural  labor  market  thwarted 
government  efforts  to  assist  these  landless  villagers.  Landlords  also 
learned  how  to  circumvent  legislation  designed  to  guarantee  share- 
croppers half  of  the  harvest.  By  the  1980s,  the  combination  of  rapid 
population  growth,  increasing  production  costs,  and  high  rates  of 
inflation  had  eroded  the  gains  of  the  smallholders.  An  estimated 
44  percent  of  all  rural  families  lived  below  the  officially  defined 
poverty  level. 

Peasants  who  owned  between  eleven  and  fifty  feddans  were  able 
to  increase  their  landholdings  by  purchasing  excess  land  from  large 
landlords.  This  group  of  peasants  comprised  2.5  percent  of  all  land- 
owners in  1952  and  3  percent  in  1965.  By  the  latter  date,  this  group 
owned  24  percent  of  all  cultivated  land. 

In  1990  rural  society  was  just  as  stratified  as  it  had  been  before 
the  initiation  of  land  reform  in  1952.  Approximately  11,000  large 
landowners  (those  owning  more  than  fifty  feddans — less  than  0.3 
percent  of  all  owners)  were  still  at  the  top  of  the  social  hierarchy. 
These  large  landowners  were  typically  absentee  landlords  and 
renters  who  worked  in  urban  areas  as  merchants,  civil  servants, 
professionals,  or  corporate  managers.  Although  wealthy,  they  lacked 


121 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


the  prerevolutionary  landowning  elite's  influence  in  rural  areas, 
and  their  impact  on  village  social  relations  tended  to  be  limited. 
Nevertheless,  they  continued  to  be  influential  in  national  politics 
and  exercised  indirect  influence  in  rural  areas  through  their  diverse 
ties  to  large  peasant  owners. 

The  second  stratum  of  rural  landowners  consisted  of  two  peasant 
groups,  medium  holders  owning  six  to  ten  feddans  and  large  holders 
owning  eleven  to  fifty  feddans.  Although  this  second  stratum  ac- 
counted for  only  5.5  percent  of  all  rural  landowners,  it  owned  one- 
third  of  all  the  cultivated  land.  Both  groups'  holdings  were  large 
enough  to  generate  profits  from  agriculture,  and  the  more  prosper- 
ous individuals  among  the  groups  tended  to  fill  the  political  role 
previously  held  by  the  large  landlords.  Large  peasant  owners  in 
particular  exercised  significant  influence  in  local  and  even  region- 
al politics.  The  large  holders  tended  to  be  commercial  farmers  with 
extensive  ties  to  domestic  capital  and  were  frequently  involved  in 
subsidiary  marketing,  livestock,  and  transport  enterprises.  In  most 
villages,  at  least  one  of  the  peasant  families  with  medium  or  large 
landholdings  was  descended  from  a  lineage  that  most  members  of 
the  community  considered  superior.  Farmers  in  this  second  stra- 
tum have  also  experienced  substantial  occupational  mobility  since 
1952.  A  typical  family  with  several  sons  would  send  one  or  more 
of  them  to  university  to  prepare  for  careers  in  the  civil  service,  the 
military,  or  the  professions. 

Peasant  smallholders  (those  owning  fewer  than  five  feddans)  com- 
prised 94  percent  of  all  Egyptian  landowners.  In  general,  holdings 
of  fewer  than  five  feddans  were  too  small  for  profitable  agriculture. 
Consequently,  smallholders  had  to  supplement  their  incomes  by 
working  on  the  land  of  larger  owners,  by  engaging  in  other  agricul- 
tural activities  such  as  raising  livestock,  or  by  finding  seasonal  work 
in  urban  areas.  Many  smallholders  rented  their  plots  for  part  or 
all  of  the  year  to  other  peasants,  especially  to  those  who  owned  be- 
tween five  and  ten  feddans.  About  one-quarter  of  all  land  owned 
by  smallholders  was  leased  to  larger  owners. 

Since  1952  there  have  been  no  reliable  statistics  on  the  number 
of  landless  villagers.  Although  landlessness  decreased  between  1952 
and  1965,  it  ha*s  been  rising  since  the  late  1960s.  Throughout  Egypt 
the  landless  constituted  perhaps  as  much  as  40  percent  of  the  rural 
population;  the  majority  lived  in  the  villages  of  the  Delta  and  Up- 
per Egypt.  Landless  peasants  supported  their  families  by  cultivat- 
ing land  for  absentee  owners  as  tenants  and  sharecroppers;  by 
working  as  agricultural  laborers  for  large  peasant  owners;  by  provid- 
ing village  services  such  as  carpentry,  blacksmithing,  machinery 
maintenance,  and  livestock  herding;  and  by  migrating  to  cities  and 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


other  Arab  countries  in  search  of  short-  and  long-term  employment. 
Remittances  from  adult  males  working  away  from  home  and  a  rise 
in  rural  wages  (stimulated  by  labor  shortages  in  agriculture)  com- 
bined to  outpace  inflation  and  helped  to  alleviate  poverty  among 
the  landless  peasants — the  poorest  villagers — in  the  1980s. 

In  1990  approximately  50  percent  of  Egypt's  population  lived 
in  villages.  In  the  past,  urban  residents  had  little  or  no  contact  with 
the  villagers  who  produced  their  food.  Most  peasants  were  sus- 
picious of  urban  landlords  and  government  officials  whose  pres- 
ence in  the  villages  coincided  with  the  collection  of  rent  and  taxes. 
But  in  the  twentieth  century,  extensive  rural-urban  contacts  de- 
veloped as  a  result  of  large-scale  migration  to  the  cities,  the  estab- 
lishment of  government  services  in  villages,  and  the  mass  media. 
Nevertheless,  a  sharp  distinction  between  rural  and  urban  areas 
persisted.  Wide  disparities  existed  between  cities  and  villages  in 
amenities,  services,  and  educational  and  health  facilities.  Mortali- 
ty rates,  especially  for  infants,  and  illiteracy  rates  were  notably 
higher  in  rural  areas  (see  Population;  and  Health  and  Welfare, 
this  ch.). 

In  the  1980s,  temporary  migration  in  search  of  wage  labor  was 
particularly  common  among  villagers  in  Upper  Egypt;  men  left 
their  families  in  the  care  of  relatives  during  the  slack  agricultural 
seasons.  In  some  Nubian  villages,  for  example,  all  males  between 
the  ages  of  eighteen  and  forty-five  were  gone  for  much  of  the  year. 
Migrants  served  as  intermediaries  between  rural  and  urban  Egypt 
and  as  agents  of  social  change  in  the  village.  Because  of  the  in- 
creasingly important  role  of  nonagricultural  work  in  the  Delta,  many 
villagers  found  new  occupations  that  resulted  in  social  cleavages. 
For  example,  the  opportunity  to  earn  a  living  independent  of  their 
fathers  permitted  men  to  exercise  more  freedom  from  traditional 
authority  figures.  Higher  education  provided  upward  mobility  for 
substantial  numbers  of  rural  children  and  led  to  new  social  dis- 
tinctions within  villages. 

The  basic  unit  of  village  organization  was  the  patrilineal  lin- 
eage or  clan.  Composed  of  various  families  descended  from  a  com- 
mon male  ancestor  four  to  six  generations  in  the  past,  a  lineage 
inhabited  a  specific  quarter  of  the  village.  Lineages,  controlled  by 
elder  males,  were  an  integral  force  in  village  life  and  politics.  Fam- 
ilies gained  their  identity  not  as  autonomous  entities  but  as  part 
of  their  larger  lineage. 

Lineages  had  a  corporate  identity  with  a  recognized  leadership 
pattern.  A  man's  closest  social  contacts  were  with  his  brothers  and 


123 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

cousins.  A  guest  house  was  used  to  entertain  visitors  at  the  lineage's 
expense.  Various  lineages  vied  for  power  and  influence  within 
the  village.  The  interests  of  the  lineage  were  frequently  more  im- 
portant than  the  interests  of  individuals.  Propinquity  was  crucial 
in  settling  disputes  within  a  lineage.  In  conflicts  with  outsiders, 
individuals  were  expected  to  unite  in  the  interests  of  their  lineage. 
Propinquity  was  so  important  in  rural  society  that  to  suggest  a  per- 
son had  no  kin  was  a  profound  insult. 

Lineages  and  a  general  disapproval  of  the  public  display  of  wealth 
blunted  many  of  the  economic  disparities  within  and  among  vil- 
lage clans.  Still,  religious  feasts  and  rites  of  passage  provided  an 
opportunity  for  lineages  to  display  their  wealth.  Lineages  usually 
invited  other  lineages  to  extravagant  weddings  and  other  celebra- 
tions. Several  religious  festivals  required  wealthy  people  to  distrib- 
ute meat  to  the  less  fortunate.  Return  from  the  hajj  (pilgrimage  to 
Mecca)  called  for  elaborate  decorations  in  the  pilgrim's  house.  In 
general,  the  socially  acceptable  means  of  displaying  wealth  helped 
integrate  prosperous  individuals  into  the  community  rather  than 
separate  them  from  it. 

A  number  of  changes  in  the  1980s  limited  the  influence  of  lin- 
eages. In  the  past,  lineage  elders  maintained  their  authority  by  con- 
trolling land.  But  the  recent  increase  in  pressure  on  land  has  meant 
that  fewer  young  men  would  inherit  large  plots.  Many  of  these 
young  men,  realizing  they  would  never  own  a  substantial  piece  of 
land,  have  migrated  to  cities  and  other  countries  and  are  no  longer 
influenced  by  their  elders.  The  prevalence  of  nuclear  families  in 
cities  has  also  eroded  lineage  ties. 

Family  and  Kinship 
Importance  of  Kinship 

The  family  remained  the  most  significant  unit  of  Egyptian  soci- 
ety in  1990,  and  kinship  played  an  important  role  in  virtually  all 
social  relations.  An  individual's  social  identity  was  closely  linked 
to  his  or  her  status  in  the  network  of  kin  relations.  Socialization 
of  children  emphasized  integration  among  their  kin  group.  An  im- 
portant goal  of  marriage  was  to  ensure  the  continuity  of  a  family. 
A  husband  and  wife  were  not  considered  a  family  until  they  pro- 
duced their  first  child.  After  the  child's  birth,  the  parents  were 
addressed  as  father  and  mother  of  Muhammad  or  Amal  or  whatever 
was  the  name  of  their  child.  The  most  deeply  held  values — honor, 
dignity,  and  security — were  derived  by  an  individual  only  as  part 
of  a  larger  kin  group.  Kinship  as  a  first  principle  was  evident  from 
the  most  essential  to  the  most  trivial  aspects  of  social  organization. 


124 


Feluccas  at  bend  in  the  Nile  near  Bani  Hasan;  Muslim  tombs  in  foreground 

Courtesy  Boris  Boguslavsky 


125 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Egyptians  reckoned  descent  patrilineally,  and  the  ideal  family 
was  an  extended  family  consisting  of  a  man,  his  wife  (or  wives), 
his  single  and  married  sons  and  their  wives  and  children,  as  well 
as  his  unmarried  daughters.  Younger  members  of  the  family 
deferred  to  older  members,  and  women  deferred  to  men.  The  po- 
litical and  economic  upheavals  of  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  cen- 
turies had  only  limited  impact  on  this  family  structure.  The 
traditional  Sunni  religious  code  for  Muslims  (see  Islam,  this  ch.) 
defined  most  Muslims'  family  matters  (marriage,  guardianship, 
and  inheritance)  while  canon  law  defined  these  matters  among 
Christians.  The  father  controlled  families'  possessions  and  income. 
Even  though  adult  male  heads  of  household  wielded  immense 
authority  within  the  family,  traditional  expectations  of  parental 
responsibilities  prevented  most  fathers  from  exercising  the  full  ex- 
tent of  their  powers. 

Although  an  extended  family  that  lived  together  was  considered 
the  ideal,  it  was  not  common.  A  nuclear  family  consisting  of  par- 
ents and  their  unmarried  children  was  the  norm  in  cities.  Even 
in  rural  areas,  nuclear  families  accounted  for  approximately  80  to 
90  percent  of  all  households.  Nevertheless,  relations  with  in-laws, 
grandparents,  nieces,  and  nephews  continued  to  have  an  impact 
on  the  lives  of  most  adults.  Newly  married  couples  typically  set 
up  their  households  near  the  homes  of  the  groom's  parents  and 
married  brothers.  Tensions  between  wives  and  their  mothers-in- 
law,  as  well  as  tensions  among  wives  of  brothers,  often  disrupted 
the  extended  family's  harmony. 

Both  patrilineal  descent  and  the  patrilocal  extended  family  func- 
tioned differently  for  men  and  women.  Men  were  the  preferred, 
valued  members  of  the  lineage.  A  son's  birth  was  occasion  to 
celebrate,  whereas  the  birth  of  a  daughter,  especially  if  she  were 
the  first  child,  was  generally  greeted  with  ambivalence.  Men  were 
valued  both  as  providers  and  as  progenitors  because  descent  was 
reckoned  through  males.  Men  remained  with  their  consanguine- 
ous kin  throughout  their  lives.  Lineages  commonly  kept  property 
in  the  hands  of  their  males  through  marriages  among  cousins.  If 
daughters  married  within  their  paternal  lineage,  then  the  property 
they  might  inherit  and  transfer  to  their  children  would  remain 
within  the  lineage.  For  a  beduin  male  or  a  villager,  the  ideal  bride 
was  the  daughter  of  his  father's  brother.  More  than  50  percent  of 
the  marriages  in  rural  areas  and  among  the  urban  lower  class  were 
endogamous.  Marriage  between  relatives  has  been  declining  among 
the  urban  middle  and  upper  classes  since  the  1952  Revolution,  and 
by  the  1980s,  most  marriages  in  these  social  groups  were  ex- 
ogamous. 


126 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


For  most  men,  marriage  marked  the  transition  to  adulthood. 
Married  men  were  expected  to  defer  to  their  fathers,  but  they  still 
had  considerable  autonomy  because  of  their  responsibility  for  their 
families'  livelihoods  and  households.  For  most  women,  marriage 
meant  leaving  their  families'  homes  and  sometimes  their  home 
areas.  In  most  cases,  marriage  merely  substituted  a  woman's  de- 
pendence on  her  husband  for  dependence  on  her  father. 

A  woman  retained  membership  in  her  patrilineage  regardless 
of  her  marital  status.  Indeed,  if  members  of  her  lineage  were  feuding 
with  members  of  her  husband's  lineage,  the  wife  was  expected  to 
side  with  her  paternal  family.  A  woman  was  entitled  to  make  de- 
mands of  her  father  and  brothers,  especially  in  case  of  marital 
difficulties,  throughout  her  life.  Most  women  generally  preferred 
to  live  near  home  and  thus  tried  to  avoid  marriages  with  men  whose 
families  lived  in  other  cities  or  villages.  Geographical  proximity 
to  patrilineal  kin  served  as  a  source  of  emotional  support  in  the 
early  years  of  marriage  when  women  were  most  vulnerable  to 
divorce.  Women  in  villages  often  asked  their  brothers  to  hold  their 
inheritances  for  them.  This  move  helped  prevent  mistreatment  of  the 
women  by  their  in-laws.  A  divorced  woman  could  have  her  brother 
return  the  inheritance  to  her  as  her  children  approached  adulthood. 

Attitudes  Toward  Women 

Rural  and  lower-class  Egyptians  generally  believed  that  women 
were  morally  inferior  to  men.  Women  were  expected  to  defer  to 
senior  male  relatives,  to  avoid  contact  with  men  who  were  not  kin, 
and  to  veil  themselves  in  public.  As  children  women  learned  to 
accept  dependency  on  their  fathers  and  older  brothers.  After  mar- 
riage women  expected  their  husbands  to  make  all  decisions.  Early 
married  life  could  be  a  time  of  extreme  subordination  and  insecu- 
rity. The  new  wife  usually  lived  with  or  near  her  husband's  family 
and  was  expected  to  help  her  mother-in-law  with  household  chores. 
A  young  wife  was  under  considerable  pressure  from  her  husband 
and  his  family  until  she  bore  a  son.  Barrenness  was  a  woman's 
worst  possible  misfortune,  and  not  giving  birth  to  a  son  was  almost 
as  bad.  Women  who  had  only  daughters  were  derogatorily  called 
"mothers  of  brides."  Most  families  continued  having  children  until 
they  had  at  least  two  sons.  As  the  length  of  a  woman's  marriage 
increased,  and  her  sons  matured,  her  position  in  the  family  grew 
more  secure.  A  woman  was  at  the  peak  of  her  power  when  her 
sons  were  married  because  she  could  then  exercise  influence  over 
her  sons'  children  and  wives. 

Patrilineal  families  valued  honor  (ird).  The  sexual  behavior  and 
reputation  of  the  women  of  a  lineage  were  the  most  important 


127 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


components  of  a  family's  honor.  A  bad  reputation  for  one  woman 
meant  a  bad  reputation  for  the  whole  lineage.  Honor  was  essen- 
tial to  social  life;  without  it  even  a  minimal  social  standing  in  the 
community  was  impossible.  Men  were  especially  interested  in  main- 
taining honor.  Women  were  always  on  their  best  behavior  around 
men  from  other  families  because  they  were  afraid  of  getting  a  bad 
reputation.  A  bad  reputation  could  disgrace  the  men  of  her  family. 
A  disgraced  husband  could  restore  his  status,  however,  through 
divorce.  Most  disgraced  fathers  and  brothers  in  rural  and  lower- 
class  urban  families,  however,  believed  that  honor  could  only  be 
restored  by  killing  the  daughter  or  sister  suspected  of  sexual  mis- 
conduct. Family  members  who  murdered  the  women  were  prepared 
to  accept  legal  penalties  for  their  actions. 

Women  have  traditionally  been  preoccupied  with  household  tasks 
and  child  rearing  and  have  rarely  had  opportunities  for  contact  with 
men  outside  the  family.  But  since  the  1952  Revolution,  social 
changes,  especially  in  education,  have  caused  many  women  to  spend 
time  in  public  places  among  men  who  were  not  related  to  them. 
To  limit  women's  contact  with  these  men,  practices  such  as  veil- 
ing and  gender  segregation  at  schools,  work,  and  recreation  have 
become  commonplace.  Furthermore,  lower-class  families,  especially 
in  Upper  Egypt,  have  tended  to  withdraw  girls  from  school  as  they 
reached  puberty  to  minimize  their  interaction  with  men.  Lower- 
class  men  frequently  preferred  marriage  to  women  who  had  been 
secluded  rather  than  to  those  who  had  worked  or  attended  secon- 
dary school. 

Egypt's  laws  pertaining  to  marriage  and  divorce  favored  the  social 
position  of  men.  Muslim  husbands  were  traditionally  allowed  to 
have  up  to  four  wives  at  a  time  in  accordance  with  Islamic  reli- 
gious custom,  but  a  woman  could  have  only  one  husband  at  a  time. 
A  Muslim  man  could  divorce  his  wife  with  ease  by  saying  "I  divorce 
thee"  on  three  separate  occasions  in  the  presence  of  witnesses.  A 
woman  wishing  to  dissolve  a  marriage  had  to  instigate  legal  proceed- 
ings and  prove  to  a  court  that  her  husband  had  failed  to  support 
her  or  that  his  behavior  was  having  a  harmful  moral  effect  on  the 
family.  The  laws  required  men  to  support  their  ex- wives  for  only 
one  year  after  a  divorce,  and  the  fathers  gained  custody  of  the  chil- 
dren. A  man  faced  few  or  no  penalties  if  he  refused  to  provide  equal 
support  to  his  wives  or  if  he  refused  to  pay  alimony  to  his  divorced 
wife.  Divorce  was  much  more  difficult  for  Copts  than  it  was  for 
Muslims.  Canon  law  regulated  the  marriages  and  divorces  of  Copts. 

After  decades  of  debate,  the  government  amended  the  laws  relat- 
ing to  personal  status  in  1979.  The  amendments,  which  became 


128 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


known  as  the  "women's  rights  law,"  were  in  the  form  of  a  presiden- 
tial decree  and  subsequently  approved  by  the  People's  Assembly. 
The  leading  orthodox  Islamic  clergy  endorsed  these  amendments, 
but  Islamist  groups  opposed  them  as  state  infringements  of  reli- 
gious precepts  and  campaigned  for  their  repeal.  The  amendments 
stated  that  polygyny  was  legally  harmful  to  a  first  wife  and  enti- 
tled her  to  sue  for  divorce  within  a  year  after  learning  of  her  hus- 
band's  second  marriage.  The  amendments  also  entitled  the  first 
wife  to  compensation.  A  husband  retained  the  right  to  divorce  his 
wife  without  recourse  to  the  courts,  but  he  was  required  to  file  for 
his  divorce  before  witnesses  at  a  registrar's  office  and  officially  and 
immediately  to  inform  his  wife.  The  divorced  wife  was  entitled  to 
alimony  equivalent  to  one  year's  maintenance  in  addition  to  com- 
pensation equivalent  to  two  years'  maintenance;  a  court  could  in- 
crease these  amounts  under  extenuating  circumstances  such  as  the 
dissolution  of  a  long  marriage.  The  divorced  wife  automatically 
retained  custody  of  sons  under  the  age  of  ten  and  daughters  under 
twelve;  courts  could  extend  the  mother's  custody  of  minors  until 
their  eighteenth  birthdays. 

In  1985  Egyptian  authorities  ruled  that  the  amendments  of  1979 
were  unconstitutional  because  they  had  been  enacted  through  a 
presidential  decree  while  the  People's  Assembly  was  not  in  session. 
A  new  law  reversed  many  of  the  rights  accorded  to  women  in  1979 
(see  The  Limits  of  Incorporation:  The  Rise  of  Political  Islam  and 
the  Continuing  Role  of  Repression,  ch.  4).  A  woman  lost  her  au- 
tomatic right  to  divorce  her  husband  if  he  married  a  second  wife. 
She  could  still  petition  a  court  to  consider  her  case,  but  a  judge 
would  grant  a  divorce  only  if  it  were  in  the  interests  of  the  family. 
If  a  divorce  were  granted,  the  judge  would  also  determine  what 
was  an  appropriate  residence  for  the  divorced  woman  and  her 
children. 

The  changes  in  divorce  legislation  in  1979  and  1985  did  not  sig- 
nificantiy  alter  the  divorce  rate,  which  has"  been  relatively  high  since 
the  early  1950s.  About  one  in  five  marriages  ended  in  divorce  in 
the  1980s.  Remarriage  was  common,  and  most  divorced  men  and 
women  expected  to  wed  again.  Seven  out  of  ten  divorces  took  place 
within  the  first  five  years  of  marriage,  and  one  out  of  three  in  the 
first  year.  The  divorce  rate  depended  on  residence  and  level  of  edu- 
cation. The  highest  divorce  rates  were  among  the  urban  lower  class, 
the  lowest  rates  among  the  villagers  of  Upper  Egypt.  Throughout 
the  country,  as  much  as  95  percent  of  all  divorces  occurred  among 
couples  who  were  illiterate. 


129 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Changing  Status  of  Women 

Since  the  early  1970s,  women's  status  has  been  changing,  mostly 
because  an  increasing  number  of  women  have  joined  the  nonagricul- 
tural  workforce.  According  to  government  estimates,  the  number 
of  working  women  doubled  from  500,000  to  1  million  between  1978 
and  1980.  By  1982  women  accounted  for  14  percent  of  all  wage- 
earning  and  salaried  employees  throughout  the  country.  Although 
substantial  numbers  of  women  were  in  the  professions,  particu- 
larly education,  engineering,  and  medicine,  most  women  held  low- 
paying  jobs  in  factories,  offices,  and  service  industries.  Half  of  all 
employed  women  held  jobs  such  as  street  cleaners,  janitors,  hotel 
and  domestic  servants,  and  hospital  aides.  In  1990  women  account- 
ed for  more  than  12  percent  of  all  industrial  workers;  most  female 
factory  workers  were  in  textiles,  food  processing,  and  pharmaceu- 
ticals. 

Religion 

Religion  has  traditionally  been  a  pervasive  social  force  in  Egypt. 
For  more  than  1,000  years,  the  country  has  been  mosdy  Islamic. 
Still,  there  is  an  indigenous  Christian  minority,  the  Copts,  which 
accounted  for  as  much  as  8.5  percent  of  the  total  population.  Other 
Christians  living  in  the  country  included  approximately  750,000 
adherents  of  various  Latin  and  Eastern  Catholic  rites,  Greek  and 
Armenian  Orthodox  churches,  and  Protestant  denominations; 
many  of  these  Christians  emigrated  after  the  1956  War.  An  esti- 
mated 1,000  Jews  lived  in  Egypt  as  of  1990.  These  Jews  were  a 
fragment  of  a  community  of  80,000  who  lived  in  the  country  before 
1948.  Egypt's  Constitution  of  1971  guarantees  freedom  of  religion 
(see  Islam,  this  ch.). 

Religious  fervor  increased  among  all  social  classes  after  Egypt's 
defeat  in  the  June  1967  War.  Pious  individuals  commonly  blamed 
Egypt's  lack  of  faith  for  the  country's  setbacks.  The  resurgence 
in  public  worship  and  displays  of  devotion  persisted  in  the  late 
1980s.  A  relaxation  of  press  censorship  in  1974  stimulated  the 
growth  of  religious  publications.  Religiously  inspired  political  ac- 
tivism and  participation  in  Sufi  orders  intensified  among  the  ur- 
ban, educated,  formerly  secular-minded  segments  of  the  populace. 

Islam 

In  610  Muhammad  (later  known  as  the  Prophet),  a  merchant 
member  of  the  Hashimite  branch  of  the  Quraysh  clan  that  ruled 
the  Arabian  town  of  Mecca,  began  to  preach  the  first  of  a  series 
of  revelations  that  Muslims  believe  were  given  him  by  God  through 


130 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  angel  Gabriel.  A  fervent  monotheist,  Muhammad  denounced 
the  polytheism  of  his  fellow  Meccans.  His  vigorous  and  continu- 
ing censure  earned  him  the  bitter  enmity  of  Mecca's  leaders,  who 
feared  the  impact  of  Muhammad's  ideas  on  Mecca's  thriving  busi- 
ness based  on  pilgrimages  to  numerous  pagan  religious  sites. 

In  622  Muhammad  and  a  group  of  followers  left  for  the  town 
of  Yathrib,  which  became  known  as  Medina  (the  city).  Their  move, 
or  hijra  (Hegira),  marks  the  beginning  of  the  Muslim  calendar,  which 
is  based  on  the  lunar  year  and  is  several  days  shorter  than  the  solar 
year.  Muhammad  continued  to  preach  in  Medina,  defeated  his 
detractors  in  Mecca  in  battie,  and  consolidated  both  temporal  and 
spiritual  leadership  of  all  Arabia  by  632,  the  year  of  his  death. 

Muhammad's  followers  compiled  the  Quran  (also  seen  as  Koran), 
a  book  containing  the  words  that  had  come  direcdy  to  the  prophet 
from  God.  The  Quran  serves  as  the  holy  scriptures  of  Islam.  Mu- 
hammad's sayings  and  teachings  were  compiled  separately  and 
referred  to  as  the  hadith.  The  Quran  and  the  hadith  form  the  sunna, 
a  comprehensive  guide  to  the  spiritual,  ethical,  and  social  life  of 
the  orthodox  Sunni  Muslim. 

The  shahada  (profession  of  faith)  succincdy  states  the  central  be- 
lief of  Islam:  "There  is  no  god  but  God  (Allah),  and  Muhammad 
is  His  Prophet."  Muslims  repeat  this  profession  of  faith  during 
many  rituals.  Reciting  the  phrase  with  unquestioning  sincerity 
designates  one  a  Muslim.  The  God  about  whom  Muhammad 
preached  was  known  to  Christians  and  Jews  living  in  Arabia  at 
the  time.  Most  Arabs,  however,  worshipped  many  gods  and  spirits 
whose  existence  was  denied  by  Muhammad.  Muhammad  urged 
the  people  to  worship  the  monotheistic  God  as  the  omnipotent  and 
unique  creator.  Muhammad  explained  that  his  God  was  om- 
nipresent and  invisible.  Therefore,  representing  God  through  sym- 
bols would  have  been  a  sin.  Muhammad  said  God  determined  world 
events,  and  resisting  God  would  have  been  futile  and  sinful. 

Islam  means  submission  (to  God).  One  who  submits  is  a  Mus- 
lim. Muslims  believe  that  Muhammad  is  the  "seal  of  the  prophets" 
and  that  his  revelations  complete  the  series  of  biblical  revelations 
received  by  Jews  and  Christians.  They  also  believe  that  God  is  one 
and  the  same  throughout  time,  but  his  true  teachings  had  been 
forgotten  until  Muhammad  arrived.  Muslims  recognized  biblical 
prophets  and  sages  such  as  Abraham,  Moses,  and  Jesus  (known 
in  Arabic  as  Ibrahim,  Musa,  and  Isa,  respectively)  as  inspired  ve- 
hicles of  God's  will.  Islam,  however,  reveres  only  their  messages 
as  sacred.  Islam  rejects  the  Christian  belief  that  Jesus  is  the  son 
of  God.  Islam  accepts  the  concepts  of  guardian  angels,  the  Day 


131 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

of  Judgment  (or  the  last  day),  general  resurrection,  heaven  and 
hell,  and  eternal  life  of  the  soul. 

The  duties  of  the  Muslim  form  the  five  pillars  of  the  faith.  These 
are  the  recitation  of  the  shahada;  daily  prayer  (salat);  almsgiving 
(zakat);  fasting  (sawm);  and  hajj,  or  pilgrimage.  The  believer  prays 
in  a  prescribed  manner  after  purification  through  ritual  ablutions 
each  day  at  dawn,  midday,  midafternoon,  sunset,  and  nightfall.  Pre- 
scribed genuflections  and  prostrations  accompany  the  prayers, 
which  the  worshipper  recites  facing  Mecca.  Whenever  possible  men 
pray  in  congregation  at  the  mosque  with  an  imam  (see  Glossary), 
or  prayer  leader.  On  Fridays  corporate  prayer  is  obligatory.  The 
Friday  noon  prayers  provide  the  occasion  for  weekly  sermons  by 
religious  leaders.  Women  may  also  attend  public  worship  at  the 
mosque,  but  they  are  segregated  from  the  men.  Most  women  who 
pray,  however,  do  it  at  home.  A  special  functionary,  the  muezzin, 
intones  a  call  to  prayer  to  the  entire  community  at  the  appropriate 
hour;  people  in  outlying  areas  determine  the  proper  time  from  the 
sun.  Public  prayer  is  a  conspicuous  and  widely  practiced  aspect 
of  Islam  in  Egypt. 

Early  Islamic  authorities  imposed  a  tax  on  personal  property 
proportionate  to  one's  wealth  and  distributed  the  revenues  to  the 
mosques  and  to  the  needy.  In  addition,  many  believers  made  volun- 
tary donations.  Although  almsgiving  is  still  a  duty  of  the  believer, 
it  is  no  longer  enforced  by  the  state  and  has  become  a  more  pri- 
vate matter.  Many  properties  contributed  by  pious  individuals  to 
support  religious  and  charitable  activities  or  institutions  were  tradi- 
tionally administered  as  inalienable  waqfs. 

Ramadan,  the  ninth  month  of  the  Muslim  calendar,  is  a  period 
of  obligatory  fasting  in  commemoration  of  Muhammad's  receipt 
of  God's  revelation,  the  Quran.  Throughout  the  month,  everyone 
except  the  sick,  the  weak,  pregnant  or  nursing  women,  soldiers 
on  duty,  travelers  on  necessary  journeys,  and  young  children  are 
enjoined  from  eating  and  drinking  during  daylight  hours.  Adults 
excused  from  the  fasting  are  obliged  to  observe  an  equivalent  fast 
at  their  earliest  opportunity.  A  meal  breaks  each  daily  fast  and  in- 
augurates a  night  of  feasting  and  celebration.  Wealthy  individuals 
usually  do  little  work  for  all  or  part  of  the  day. 

Because  the  months  of  the  lunar  calendar  are  shorter  than  the 
months  of  the  solar  year,  Ramadan  falls  at  different  times  each 
year.  For  example,  when  Ramadan  occurs  in  summer,  it  imposes 
special  hardship  on  farmers  who  do  heavy  physical  labor  in  the 
fields  in  the  daytime. 

At  least  once  in  their  lifetimes,  all  Muslims  who  are  financially 
and  physically  capable  are  expected  to  make  a  pilgrimage  to  the 


132 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


holy  city  of  Mecca  to  participate  in  special  rites  held  there  during 
the  twelfth  month  of  the  lunar  calendar.  Muhammad  instituted 
this  requirement,  modifying  pre-Islamic  custom,  to  emphasize  sites 
associated  with  Allah  and  Abraham,  whom  Arabs  believe  founded 
monotheism  and  is  the  ancestor  of  Arabs  through  his  son  Ishmael 
(Ismail).  More  than  20,000  Egyptians  made  pilgrimages  to  Mecca 
each  year  in  the  late  1980s.  Traditionally  the  departure  of  Egypt's 
pilgrims  climaxed  in  the  ceremony  of  mahmal,  during  which  the 
national  gift  of  carpets  and  shrouds  for  the  Kaaba  shrine  and  the 
tomb  of  Muhammad  at  Medina  were  presented.  The  pilgrims  would 
later  deliver  the  gifts. 

Once  in  Mecca,  pilgrims,  dressed  in  the  white,  seamless  ihram, 
refrain  from  activities  considered  unclean.  Highlights  of  the  pil- 
grimage include  kissing  the  sacred  black  stone;  circumambulating 
the  Kaaba,  the  sacred  structure  reputedly  built  by  Abraham  that 
houses  the  stone;  running  seven  times  between  the  hills  of  As  Safa 
and  Al  Marwa  in  reenactment  of  Hagar's  desperate  search  for  water 
after  Abraham  had  cast  her  and  her  son  Ismail  out  into  the  desert; 
and  standing  in  prayer  on  Mount  Arafat.  Id  al  Adha,  a  major  Is- 
lamic festival  celebrated  worldwide,  marks  the  end  of  the  hajj.  Each 
family,  if  it  has  the  financial  means,  slaughters  a  lamb  on  Id  al 
Adha  to  commemorate  an  ancient  Arab  sacrificial  custom.  The 
returning  pilgrim  is  accorded  the  honorific  hajj  or  hajji  before  his 
or  her  name. 

Early  Developments 

During  his  lifetime,  Muhammad  was  the  spiritual  and  temporal 
leader  of  the  Muslim  community.  He  established  the  concept  of 
Islam  as  a  complete,  all-encompassing  way  of  life  for  individuals 
and  society.  Islam  teaches  that  Allah  revealed  to  Muhammad  the 
immutable  principles  of  correct  behavior.  Islam  therefore  obliged 
Muslims  to  live  according  to  these  principles.  It  also  obliged  the 
community  to  perfect  human  society  on  earth  according  to  holy 
injunctions.  Islam  generally  made  no  distinction  between  religion 
and  state;  it  merged  religious  and  secular  life,  as  well  as  religious 
and  secular  law.  Muslims  have  traditionally  been  subject  to  the 
sharia  (Islamic  jurisprudence,  but  in  a  larger  sense  meaning  the 
Islamic  way).  A  comprehensive  legal  system,  the  sharia  developed 
gradually  during  the  first  four  centuries  of  Islam,  primarily  through 
the  accretion  of  precedent  and  interpretation  by  various  judges  and 
scholars.  During  the  tenth  century,  legal  opinion  hardened  into 
authoritative  doctrine,  and  the  figurative  bob  al  ijtihad  (gate  of  inter- 
pretation) gradually  closed.  Thereafter,  Islamic  law  has  tended  to  fol- 
low precedent  rather  than  to  interpret  law  according  to  circumstances. 


133 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


In  632,  after  Muhammad's  death  the  leaders  of  the  Muslim  com- 
munity consensually  chose  Abu  Bakr,  the  Prophet's  father-in-law 
and  one  of  his  earliest  followers,  to  succeed  him.  At  that  time,  some 
people  favored  Ali,  the  Prophet's  cousin  and  husband  of  his  favorite 
daughter  Fatima,  but  Ali  and  his  supporters  (the  Shiat  Ali,  or  party 
of  Ali,  commonly  known  as  Shia)  eventually  accepted  the  commu- 
nity's choice.  The  next  two  caliphs  (from  khalifa,  literally  succes- 
sor)— Umar,  who  succeeded  in  634,  and  Uthman,  who  took  power 
in  644 — enjoyed  the  recognition  of  the  entire  community.  When 
Ali  finally  succeeded  to  the  caliphate  in  656,  Muawiyah,  governor 
of  Syria,  rebelled  in  the  name  of  his  murdered  kinsman,  Uthman. 
After  the  ensuing  civil  war,  Ali  moved  his  capital  to  Mesopotamia 
(present-day  Iraq),  where  in  a  short  time  he,  too,  was  murdered. 

Ali  was  the  last  of  the  so-called  four  orthodox  caliphs.  His  death 
marked  the  end  of  the  period  in  which  all  Muslims  recognized  a 
single  caliph.  Muawiyah  then  proclaimed  himself  caliph  from 
Damascus.  The  Shia,  however,  refusing  to  recognize  Muawiyah 
or  his  line  of  Umayyad  caliphs,  withdrew,  causing  Islam's  first  great 
schism.  The  Shia  supported  the  claims  of  Ali's  sons  and  grand- 
sons to  a  presumptive  right  to  the  caliphate  based  on  descent  from 
the  Prophet  through  Fatima  and  Ali.  The  larger  faction  of  Islam, 
the  Sunni,  claimed  to  follow  the  orthodox  teaching  and  example 
of  the  Prophet  as  embodied  in  the  sunna. 

Early  Islam  was  intensely  expansionist.  Fervor  for  the  new 
religion,  as  well  as  economic  and  social  factors,  fueled  this  expan- 
sionism. Conquering  armies  and  migrating  tribes  swept  out  of  Ara- 
bia and  spread  Islam.  By  the  end  of  Islam's  first  century,  Islamic 
armies  had  reached  far  into  North  Africa  and  eastward  and  north- 
ward into  Asia.  Among  the  first  countries  to  come  under  their  con- 
trol was  Egypt,  which  Arab  forces  invaded  in  640.  The  following 
year,  Amr  ibn  al  As  conquered  Cairo  (then  known  as  Babylon) 
and  renamed  the  city  Al  Fustat.  By  647,  after  the  surrender  of  Alex- 
andria, the  whole  country  was  under  Muslim  rule  (see  The  Arab 
Conquest,  639-41,  ch.  1).  Amr,  Egypt's  first  Muslim  ruler,  was 
influenced  by  the  Prophet's  advice  that  Muslims  should  be  kind 
to  the  Egyptians  because  of  their  kinship  ties  to  Arabs.  According 
to  Islamic  tradition,  Ismail's  mother,  Hagar,  was  of  Egyptian 
origin. 

Amr  allowed  the  Copts  to  choose  between  converting  to  Islam 
or  retaining  their  beliefs  as  a  protected  people.  Amr  gave  them  this 
choice  because  the  Prophet  had  recognized  the  special  status  of  the 
"People  of  the  Book"  (Jews  and  Christians),  whose  scriptures  he 
considered  perversions  of  God's  true  word  but  nevertheless  con- 
tributory to  Islam.  Amr  believed  that  Jews  and  Christians  were 


134 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


people  who  had  approached  but  not  yet  achieved  the  perfection 
of  Islam,  so  he  did  not  treat  them  like  pagans  who  would  be  forced 
into  choosing  between  Islam  and  death.  Jews  and  Christians  in 
Muslim  territories  could  live  according  to  their  own  religious  laws 
and  in  their  own  communities  if  they  accepted  the  position  of  dhim- 
mis,  or  tolerated  subject  peoples.  Dhimmis  were  required  to  recog- 
nize Muslim  authority,  pay  additional  taxes,  avoid  proselytism 
among  Muslims,  and  give  up  certain  political  rights.  By  the  ninth 
century  A.D.,  most  Egyptians  had  converted  to  Islam. 

Amr  had  chosen  Al  Fustat  as  the  capital  of  Islamic  Egypt  be- 
cause a  canal  connected  the  city  to  the  Red  Sea,  which  provided 
easy  access  to  the  Muslim  heartland  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula.  He 
initiated  construction  of  Cairo's  oldest  extant  mosque,  the  Amr 
ibn  al  As  Mosque,  which  was  completed  in  71 1 ,  several  years  after 
his  death.  Successive  rulers  also  built  mosques  and  other  religious 
buildings  as  monuments  to  their  faith  and  accomplishments.  Egypt's 
first  Turkish  ruler,  Ahmad  ibn  Tulun,  built  one  of  Cairo's  most 
renowned  mosques,  the  Ibn  Tulun  Mosque,  in  876. 

A  Shia  dynasty,  the  Fatimids,  conquered  Egypt  in  969  and  ruled 
the  country  for  200  years  (see  The  Tulinids,  Ikhshidids,  Fatimids, 
and  Ayyubids,  868-1260,  ch.  1).  Although  the  Fatimids  endowed 
numerous  mosques,  shrines,  and  theological  schools,  they  did  not 
firmly  establish  their  faith  (known  today  as  Ismaili  Shia  Islam — 
see  Glossary)  in  Egypt.  Numerous  sectarian  conflicts  among  Fatimid 
Ismailis  after  1050  may  have  been  a  factor  in  Egyptian  Muslim 
acceptance  of  Saladin's  (Salah  ad  Din  ibn  Ayyub)  reestablishment 
of  Sunni  Islam  as  the  state  religion  in  1171.  Al  Azhar  theological 
school,  endowed  by  the  Fatimids,  changed  quickly  from  a  center 
of  Shia  learning  to  a  bastion  of  Sunni  orthodoxy.  There  were  vir- 
tually no  Ismailis  in  Egypt  in  1990,  although  large  numbers  lived 
in  India  and  Pakistan  and  smaller  communities  were  in  Afghanistan, 
Iran,  Syria,  and  several  countries  in  East  Africa. 

Contemporary  Islam 

Prior  to  Napoleon's  invasion,  almost  all  of  Egypt's  educational, 
legal,  public  health,  and  social  welfare  issues  were  in  the  hands  of 
religious  functionaries.  Ottoman  rule  reinforced  the  public  and  po- 
litical roles  of  the  ulama  (religious  scholars)  because  Islam  was  the 
state  religion  and  because  political  divisions  in  the  country  were 
based  on  religious  divisions.  During  the  nineteenth  and  twenti- 
eth centuries,  successive  governments  made  extensive  efforts  to 
limit  the  role  of  the  ulama  in  public  life  and  to  bring  religious 
institutions  under  closer  state  control.  The  secular  transformation 
of  public  life  in  Egypt  depended  on  the  development  of  a  civil 


135 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

bureaucracy  that  would  absorb  many  of  the  ulama's  responsibili- 
ties in  the  country. 

After  the  1952  Revolution,  the  government  assumed  responsi- 
bility for  appointing  officials  to  mosques  and  religious  schools.  The 
government  mandated  reform  of  Al  Azhar  University  beginning 
in  1961.  These  reforms  permitted  department  heads  to  be  drawn 
from  outside  the  ranks  of  the  traditionally  trained  orthodox  ula- 
ma.  At  the  same  time,  the  government  established  a  number  of 
modern  faculties,  including  medicine,  engineering,  and  commerce. 
The  media  periodically  campaigned  against  the  ulama  as  old- 
fashioned  members  of  a  "priestly  caste." 

As  of  1990,  Egyptian  Islam  was  a  complex  and  diverse  religion. 
Although  Muslims  agreed  on  the  faith's  basic  tenets,  the  country's 
various  social  groups  and  classes  applied  Islam  differently  in  their 
daily  lives.  The  literate  theologians  of  Al  Azhar  University  gener- 
ally rejected  the  version  of  Islam  practiced  by  illiterate  religious 
preachers  and  peasants  in  the  countryside.  Most  upper-  and  middle- 
class  Muslims  believed  either  that  religious  expression  was  a  pri- 
vate matter  for  each  individual  or  that  Islam  should  play  a  more 
dominant  role  in  public  life.  Islamic  religious  revival  movements, 
whose  appeal  cut  across  class  lines,  were  present  in  most  cities  and 
in  many  villages. 

Today  devout  Muslims  believe  that  Islam  defines  one's  relation- 
ship to  God,  to  other  Muslims,  and  to  non-Muslims.  They  also 
believe  that  there  can  be  no  dichotomy  between  the  sacred  and  the 
secular.  Many  devout  Muslims  say  that  Egypt's  governments  have 
been  secularist  and  even  antireligious  since  the  early  1920s.  Polit- 
ically organized  Muslims  who  seek  to  purge  the  country  of  its  secular 
policies  are  referred  to  as  "Islamists."  Orthodox  ulama  found  them- 
selves in  a  difficult  position  during  the  wave  of  Islamic  activism 
that  swept  through  Egypt  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  Radical  Islamists 
viewed  the  ulama  as  puppets  of  the  status  quo.  To  maintain  their 
influence  in  the  country,  the  ulama  espoused  more  conservative 
stances.  After  1974,  for  example,  many  Al  Azhar  ulama,  who  had 
acquiesced  to  family  planning  initiatives  in  the  1960s,  openly  criti- 
cized government  efforts  at  population  control.  The  ulama  also  sup- 
ported moves  to  reform  the  country's  legal  code  to  conform  to 
Islamic  teaching.  They  remained,  nonetheless,  comparatively  mod- 
erate; they  were  largely  loyal  to  the  government  and  condemned 
the  violence  of  radical  Islamist  groups. 

Egypt's  largely  uneducated  urban  and  rural  lower  classes  were 
intensely  devoted  to  Islam,  but  they  lacked  a  thorough  knowledge 
of  the  religion.  Even  village  religious  leaders  had  only  a  rudimen- 
tary knowledge  of  Islam.  The  typical  village  imam  or  prayer  leader 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


had  at  most  a  few  years  of  schooling;  his  scholarly  work  was  lim- 
ited to  reading  prayers  and  sermons  prepared  by  others  and 
to  learning  passages  from  the  Quran.  Popular  religion  included 
a  variety  of  unorthodox  practices,  such  as  veneration  of  saints, 
recourse  to  charms  and  amulets,  and  belief  in  the  influence  of  evil 
spirits. 

Popular  Islam  is  based  mostiy  on  oral  tradition.  Imams  with  vir- 
tually no  formal  education  commonly  memorize  the  entire  Quran 
and  recite  appropriate  verses  on  religious  occasions.  They  also  tell 
religious  stories  at  village  festivals  and  commemorations  marking 
an  individual's  rites  of  passage.  Predestination  plays  an  important 
role  in  popular  Islam.  This  concept  includes  the  belief  that  every- 
thing that  happens  in  life  is  the  will  of  God  and  the  belief  that  try- 
ing to  avoid  misfortune  is  useless  and  invites  worse  affliction. 
Monotheism  merges  with  a  belief  in  magic  and  spirits  (jinns)  who 
are  believed  to  inhabit  the  mountains. 

Popular  Islam  ranges  from  informal  prayer  sessions  or  Quran 
study  to  organized  cults  or  orders.  Because  of  the  pervasive  sexual 
segregation  of  Egypt's  Islamic  society,  men  and  women  often  prac- 
tice their  religion  in  different  ways.  A  specifically  female  religious 
custom  is  the  zar,  a  ceremony  for  helping  women  placate  spirits 
who  are  believed  to  have  possessed  them.  Women  specially  trained 
by  their  mothers  or  other  women  in  zar  lore  organize  the  ceremo- 
nies. A  zar  organizer  holds  weekly  meetings  and  employs  music 
and  dance  to  induce  ecstatic  trances  in  possessed  women.  Wealthy 
women  sometimes  pay  to  have  private  zars  conducted  in  their  homes; 
these  zars  are  more  elaborate  than  public  ones,  last  for  several  days, 
and  sometimes  involve  efforts  to  exorcise  spirits. 

A  primarily  male  spiritual  manifestation  is  Sufism,  an  Islamic 
mystical  tradition.  Sufism  has  existed  since  the  early  days  of  Islam 
and  is  found  in  all  Islamic  countries.  The  name  derives  from  the 
Arabic  word  suf  (wool),  referring  to  the  rough  garb  of  the  early 
mystics.  Sufism  exists  in  a  number  of  forms,  most  of  which  represent 
an  original  tariqa  (discipline  or  way;  pi. ,  turuq)  developed  by  an  in- 
spired founder,  or  shaykh.  These  shaykhs  gradually  gathered  about 
themselves  murids,  or  disciples,  whom  they  initiated  into  the  tariqa. 
Gradually  the  murids  formed  orders,  also  known  as  turuq,  which 
were  loyal  to  the  shaykh  or  his  successors.  The  devotions  of  many 
Sufi  orders  center  on  various  forms  of  the  dhikr,  a  ceremony  at  which 
music,  body  movements,  and  chants  induce  a  state  of  ecstatic  trance 
in  the  disciples.  Since  the  early  1970s,  there  has  been  a  revival  of 
interest  in  Sufism.  Egypt's  contemporary  Sufis  tend  to  be  young, 
college-educated  men  in  professional  careers. 


137 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Islamic  Political  Movements 

Islamic  political  activism  has  a  lengthy  history  in  Egypt.  Several 
Islamic  political  groups  started  soon  after  World  War  I  ended.  The 
most  well-known  Islamic  political  organization  is  the  Muslim 
Brotherhood  (Al  Ikhwan  al  Muslimun,  also  known  as  the  Brother- 
hood), founded  in  1928  by  Hasan  al  Banna.  After  World  War  II, 
the  Muslim  Brotherhood  acquired  a  reputation  as  a  radical  group 
prepared  to  use  violence  to  achieve  its  religious  goals.  The  group 
was  implicated  in  several  assassinations,  including  the  murder  of 
one  prime  minister.  The  Brotherhood  had  contacts  with  the  Free 
Officers  before  the  1952  Revolution  and  supported  most  of  their 
initial  policies.  The  Brotherhood,  however,  soon  came  into  con- 
flict with  Nasser.  The  government  accused  the  Brotherhood  of  com- 
plicity in  an  alleged  1954  plot  to  assassinate  the  president  and 
imprisoned  many  of  the  group's  leaders.  In  the  1970s,  Anwar  as 
Sadat  amnestied  the  leaders  and  permitted  them  to  resume  some 
of  their  activities.  But  by  that  time,  the  Brotherhood  was  divided 
into  at  least  three  factions.  The  more  militant  faction  was  com- 
mitted to  a  policy  of  political  opposition  to  the  government.  A  second 
faction  advocated  peaceful  withdrawal  from  society  and  the  crea- 
tion, to  the  extent  possible,  of  a  separate,  parallel  society  based 
upon  Islamic  values  and  law.  The  dominant  moderate  group  advo- 
cated cooperation  with  the  regime  (see  Controlling  the  Mass  Po- 
litical Arena,  ch.  4;  and  Muslim  Extremism,  ch.  5). 

The  Muslim  Brotherhood's  reemergence  as  a  political  force  coin- 
cided with  the  proliferation  of  Islamic  groups.  Some  of  these  groups 
espoused  the  violent  overthrow  of  the  government  while  others 
espoused  living  a  devout  life  of  rigorous  observance  of  religious 
practices.  It  is  impossible  to  list  all  the  Islamic  groups  that  emerged 
in  the  late  1970s  because  many  of  them  had  diffuse  structures  and 
some  of  the  more  militant  groups  were  underground.  Egypt's  de- 
feat and  loss  of  territory  in  the  June  1967  War  was  the  main  cause 
for  the  growth  of  religiously  inspired  political  activism.  Muslims 
tended  to  view  the  humiliating  experience  as  the  culmination  of 
150  years  of  foreign  intrusion  and  an  affront  to  their  vision  of 
a  true  Islamic  community.  Islamic  tradition  rejected  the  idea  of 
non-Muslims  dominating  Muslim  society.  Such  a  state  of  affairs 
discredited  Muslim  rulers  who  permitted  it  to  persist.  It  was,  there- 
fore, incumbent  on  believers  to  end  the  domination  and  restore 
the  true  supremacy  of  Islam.  As  part  of  their  Sunni  creed,  the  most 
radical  activists  adopted  jihad  (holy  war — the  Shia  sixth  pillar  of 
faith)  and  committed  themselves  to  battling  unbelievers  and  im- 
pious Muslims.  During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Islamists  perpetrated 


138 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

a  number  of  violent  acts,  including  the  assassination  of  Sadat  in 
October  1981. 

Disruptive  social  changes  and  Sadat's  relative  tolerance  toward 
political  parties  contributed  to  the  rapid  growth  of  Islamic  groups 
in  the  1970s.  On  university  campuses,  for  example,  Sadat  initially 
viewed  the  rise  of  Islamic  associations  (Jamaat  al  Islamiyah)  as  a 
counterbalance  to  leftist  influence  among  students.  The  Jamaat  al 
Islamiyah  spread  quite  rapidly  on  campuses  and  won  up  to  one- 
third  of  all  student  union  elections.  These  victories  provided  a  plat- 
form from  which  the  associations  campaigned  for  Islamic  dress, 
the  veiling  of  women,  and  the  segregation  of  classes  by  gender. 
Secular  university  administrators  opposed  these  goals.  In  1979  Sadat 
sought  to  diminish  the  influence  of  the  associations  through  a  law 
that  transferred  most  of  the  authority  of  the  student  unions  to  profes- 
sors and  administrators.  During  the  1980s,  however,  Islamists  grad- 
ually penetrated  college  faculties.  At  Asyut  University,  which  was 
the  scene  of  some  of  the  most  intense  clashes  between  Islamists  and 
their  opponents  (including  security  forces,  secularists,  and  Copts), 
the  president  and  other  top  administrators — who  were  Islamists- 
supported  Jamaat  al  Islamiyah  demands  to  end  mixed-sex  classes 
and  to  reduce  total  female  enrollment. 

As  of  1990,  the  Islamists  sought  to  make  Egypt  a  community 
of  the  faithful  based  on  their  vision  of  an  Islamic  social  order.  They 
rejected  conventional,  secularist  social  analyses  of  Egypt's  socioeco- 
nomic problems.  They  maintained,  for  example,  that  the  causes 
of  poverty  were  not  overpopulation  or  high  defense  expenditures 
but  the  populace's  spiritual  failures — laxness,  secularism,  and  cor- 
ruption. The  solution  was  a  return  to  the  simplicity,  hard  work, 
and  self-reliance  of  earlier  Muslim  life.  The  Islamists  created  their 
own  alternative  network  of  social  and  economic  institutions  through 
which  members  could  work,  study,  and  receive  medical  treatment 
in  an  Islamic  environment. 

Islamists  rejected  Marxism  and  Western  capitalism.  Indeed,  they 
viewed  atheistic  communism,  Jewish  Zionism,  and  Western 
"Crusader-minded"  Christianity  as  their  main  enemies,  which  were 
responsible  for  the  decadence  that  led  to  foreign  domination  and 
defeat  by  Zionists.  They  were  intolerant  of  people  who  did  not  share 
their  world  view.  Islamists  tended  to  be  hostile  toward  the  ortho- 
dox ulama,  especially  the  scholars  at  Al  Azhar  who  frequently  criti- 
cized the  Islamists'  extreme  religious  interpretations.  Islamists 
believed  that  the  established  social  and  political  order  had  tainted 
the  ulama,  who  had  come  to  represent  stumbling  blocks  to  the  new 
Islamic  order.  In  addition,  Islamists  condemned  the  orthodox  as 


139 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


"pulpit  parrots"  committed  to  a  formalist  practice  of  Islam  but 
not  to  its  spirit. 

The  social  origins  of  Islamists  changed  after  the  1952  Revolu- 
tion. In  the  1940s  and  early  1950s,  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  had 
appealed  primarily  to  urban  civil  servants  and  white-and  blue-collar 
workers.  After  the  early  1970s,  the  Islamic  revival  attracted  fol- 
lowers from  a  broad  spectrum  of  social  classes.  Most  activists  were 
university  students  or  recent  graduates;  they  included  rural-urban 
migrants  and  urban  middle-class  youth  whose  fathers  were  middle- 
level  government  employees  or  professionals.  Their  fields  of 
study — medicine,  engineering,  military  science,  and  pharmacy — 
were  among  the  most  highly  competitive  and  prestigious  disciplines 
in  the  university  system.  The  rank-and-file  members  of  Islamist 
groups  have  come  from  the  middle  class,  the  lower-middle  class, 
and  the  urban  working  class. 

Various  Islamist  groups  espoused  different  means  for  achieving 
their  political  agenda.  All  Islamists,  however,  were  concerned  with 
Islam's  role  in  the  complex  and  changing  society  of  Egypt  in  the 
late  twentieth  century.  A  common  focus  of  their  political  efforts 
has  been  to  incorporate  the  sharia  into  the  country's  legal  code. 
In  deference  to  their  increasing  influence,  the  Ministry  of  Justice 
in  1977  published  a  draft  law  making  apostasy  by  a  Muslim  a  cap- 
ital offense  and  proposing  traditional  Islamic  punishments  for 
crimes,  such  as  stoning  for  adultery  and  amputation  of  a  hand  for 
theft.  In  1980  Egypt  supported  a  referendum  that  proposed  a  con- 
stitutional amendment  to  make  the  sharia  "the  sole  source  of  law." 
The  influence  of  the  Islamists  temporarily  waned  in  the  aftermath 
of  Sadat's  assassination  in  1981,  but  the  election  of  nine  members 
of  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  to  the  People's  Assembly  in  1984  re- 
vived Islamists'  prospects.  In  1985  the  People's  Assembly  voted 
to  initiate  a  procedure  for  the  gradual  application  of  the  sharia, 
beginning  with  an  indefinite  education  period  to  prepare  the  popu- 
lation for  the  legal  changes;  the  next  step  would  be  to  amend  all 
existing  laws  to  exclude  any  provisions  that  conflict  with  the  shar- 
ia. Moves  to  reform  the  legal  code  received  support  from  many 
Muslims  who  wanted  to  purify  society  and  reject  Western  legal 
codes  forced  on  Egypt  in  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries. 

Coptic  Church 

The  Copts  have  remained  a  significant  minority  throughout  the 
medieval  and  modern  periods.  After  the  Turks  incorporated  Egypt 
into  the  Ottoman  Empire  in  the  sixteenth  century,  they  organized 
the  government  around  a  system  of  millets,  or  religious  commu- 
nities. The  Copts  were  one  of  the  communities.  Each  organized 


140 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


religious  minority  lived  according  to  its  own  canon  law  under  the 
leadership  of  recognized  religious  authorities  who  represented  the 
millet  to  the  outside  world  and  supervised  the  millet's  internal  com- 
munal life.  This  form  of  organization  preserved  and  nourished  the 
religious  differences  among  these  peoples.  Most  historians  believe 
that  the  millet  system  prevented  the  full  integration  of  non-Muslims 
into  Muslim  life.  The  system,  which  the  Ottomans  applied  through- 
out their  empire,  had  an  enduring  influence  on  the  social  struc- 
ture of  all  countries  in  the  Middle  East. 

The  Copts,  an  indigenous  Christian  sect,  constituted  Egypt's 
largest  religious  minority.  Estimates  of  their  numbers  in  1990 
ranged  between  3  million  to  7  million.  The  Copts  claimed  descent 
from  the  ancient  Egyptians;  the  word  copt  is  derived  from  the  Arabic 
word  qubt  (Egyptian).  Egypt  was  Christianized  during  the  first  cen- 
tury A.D. ,  when  the  country  was  part  of  the  Roman  Empire.  The 
Coptic  Church  claims  to  hold  an  unbroken  line  of  patriarchal  suc- 
cession to  the  See  of  Alexandria  founded  by  Saint  Mark,  a  disci- 
ple of  Christ.  Egyptian  Christianity  developed  distinct  dogmas  and 
practices  during  the  more  than  two  centuries  that  the  religion  was 
illegal.  By  the  fourth  century,  when  Constantine  made  Christianity 
the  official  religion  of  the  Roman  Empire,  Coptic  traditions  were 
sufficiently  different  from  those  in  Rome  and  Constantinople  (for- 
merly Byzantium;  present-day  Istanbul)  to  cause  major  religious 
conflicts.  Dissension  persisted  for  150  years  until  most  Copts  seceded 
from  the  main  body  of  Christianity  because  they  rejected  the  deci- 
sion of  the  Council  of  Chalcedon  that  Christ  had  a  dual  nature, 
both  human  and  divine,  believing  instead  in  Christ's  single,  di- 
vine nature. 

The  Coptic  Church  developed  separately  from  other  Eastern 
churches.  The  Coptic  Church's  clerical  hierarchy  had  evolved  by 
the  sixth  century.  A  patriarch,  referred  to  as  the  pope,  heads  the 
church.  A  synod  or  council  of  senior  priests  (people  who  have  at- 
tained the  status  of  bishops)  is  responsible  for  electing  or  remov- 
ing popes.  Members  of  the  Coptic  Church  worldwide  (about  1 
million  Copts  lived  outside  of  Egypt  as  of  1990)  recognize  the  pope 
as  their  spiritual  leader.  The  pope,  traditionally  based  in  Alexan- 
dria, also  serves  as  the  chief  administrator  of  the  church.  The  ad- 
ministrator's functionaries  include  hundreds  of  priests  serving  urban 
and  rural  parishes,  friars  in  monasteries,  and  nuns  in  convents. 

Following  Islam's  spread  through  Egypt,  Muslims  alternately 
tolerated  and  persecuted  the  Copts.  Heavy  taxation  of  Christians 
encouraged  mass  conversions  to  Islam,  and  within  two  centuries, 
Copts  had  become  a  distinct  minority.  By  the  tenth  century,  Arabic 


141 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

had  replaced  Coptic  as  the  primary  spoken  language,  and  Coptic 
was  relegated  to  a  liturgical  language. 

The  Ottoman  millet  system  of  drawing  administrative  divisions 
along  religious  lines  reinforced  Coptic  solidarity.  The  dismantling 
of  the  millet  system  during  the  nineteenth  century  helped  open  new 
career  opportunities  for  the  Copts.  Egypt's  Muslim  rulers  had  tradi- 
tionally used  minority  members  as  administrators,  and  the  Copts 
were  initially  the  main  beneficiaries  of  the  burgeoning  civil  ser- 
vice. During  the  early  twentieth  century,  however,  the  British 
purged  many  Copts  from  the  bureaucracy.  The  Copts  resented  this 
policy,  but  it  accelerated  their  entry  into  professional  careers. 

In  the  twentieth  century,  Copts  have  been  disproportionately 
represented  among  the  ranks  of  prosperous  city  dwellers.  Urban 
Copts  tended  to  favor  careers  in  commerce  and  the  professions, 
whereas  the  livelihoods  of  rural  Copts  were  virtually  indistinguish- 
able from  their  Muslim  counterparts.  Urban  Copts  were  stratified 
into  groups  of  long-time  residents  and  groups  of  recent  migrants 
from  the  countryside.  The  latter  group  was  often  impoverished  and 
fell  outside  the  traditional  urban  Coptic  community.  The  former 
group  included  many  university  professors,  lawyers,  doctors,  a  few 
prominent  public  officials,  and  a  substantial  middle  echelon  of  fac- 
tory workers  and  service  sector  employees. 

Anti-Coptic  sentiment  has  accompanied  the  resurgence  of  Islamic 
activism  in  Egypt.  Since  1972  several  Coptic  churches  have  been 
burned,  including  the  historic  Qasriyat  ar  Rihan  Church  in  Cairo. 
Islamist  groups  frequently  and  explicitly  denounced  Copts  in  their 
pamphlets  and  prayer  meetings.  The  increasing  tensions  between 
Copts  and  Muslims  inevitably  led  to  clashes  in  Upper  Egypt  in 
1977  and  1978  and  later  in  the  cities  and  villages  of  the  Delta.  Three 
days  of  religious  riots  in  Cairo  in  1981  left  at  least  17  Copts  and 
Muslims  dead  and  more  than  100  injured.  Isolated  incidents  of 
Muslim-Coptic  violence  continued  throughout  the  1980s  and  during 
1990. 

Coptic  Pope  Shenudah  III  (elected  in  1971)  blamed  government 
silence  for  the  increasing  violence.  He  also  expressed  alarm  at  official 
actions  that  he  said  encouraged  anti-Coptic  feelings.  In  1977,  to  pro- 
test a  Ministry  of  Justice  proposal  to  apply  sharia  legal  penalties 
to  any  Muslim  who  converted  from  Islam,  the  pope  called  on  the 
Coptic  community  to  fast  for  five  days.  As  harassment  of  Copts 
increased,  Pope  Shenudah  III  canceled  official  Easter  celebrations 
for  1980  and  fled  to  a  desert  convent  with  his  bishops.  Sadat  accused 
the  pope  of  inciting  the  Coptic-Muslim  strife  and  banished  him  in 
September  1981  to  internal  exile.  The  government  then  appointed 
a  committee  of  five  bishops  to  administer  the  church.  The  following 


142 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


year,  the  government  called  upon  the  church  synod  to  elect  a  new 
pope,  but  the  Coptic  clergy  rejected  this  state  intervention.  In  1985 
Husni  Mubarak  released  Pope  Shenudah  III  from  internal  exile 
and  permitted  him  to  resume  his  religious  duties. 

Other  Religious  Minorities 

Egypt's  other  religious  minorities  in  1990  included  approximately 
350,000  adherents  of  the  Greek  Orthodox  Church,  175,000  Eastern 
and  Latin  Rite  Catholics,  200,000  Protestants,  and  fewer  than  1,000 
Jews.  The  Greek  Orthodox  Church  was  headquartered  in  Alex- 
andria, where  most  of  its  members  lived.  Most  members  of  the 
Greek  Orthodox  were  of  Greek  origin,  but  followers  also  included 
Arabs,  Armenians,  and  the  affiliated  Coptic  Orthodox  Church. 
The  Catholics  embraced  seven  distinct  rites  that  Rome  historical- 
ly authorized  to  use  languages  other  than  Latin  as  integral  parts 
of  their  liturgies.  Approximately  85  percent  of  all  Catholics  in  Egypt 
belonged  to  the  Coptic  Catholic  Church.  Other  Catholics  includ- 
ed followers  of  the  Armenian,  Chaldean,  Greek,  Latin,  Maronite, 
and  Syrian  rites.  There  were  also  numerous  Protestant  churches. 
The  government  suspended  the  Anglican  Church  in  1958  after  the 
Anglo-French  occupation  of  the  Suez  Canal  but  permitted  it  to  re- 
sume functioning  in  1974.  The  Anglican  Church  in  Egypt  was  part 
of  the  Episcopal  Church  in  Jerusalem  and  the  Middle  East.  Other 
Protestant  churches  included  the  Armenian  Apostolic  Church,  the 
Union  of  Armenian  Evangelical  Churches  in  the  Near  East,  and 
the  Coptic  Evangelical  Church. 

Education 

Prior  to  the  nineteenth  century,  the  ulama  and  Coptic  clergy 
controlled  Egypt's  traditional  education.  The  country's  most  im- 
portant institutes  were  theological  seminaries,  but  most  mosques 
and  churches — even  in  villages — operated  basic  schools  where  boys 
could  learn  to  read  and  write  Arabic,  to  do  simple  arithmetic,  and 
to  memorize  passages  from  the  Quran  or  Bible.  Muhammad  Ali 
established  the  system  of  modern  secular  education  in  the  early 
nineteenth  century  to  provide  technically  trained  cadres  for  his  civil 
administration  and  military.  His  grandson,  Ismail,  greatly  expand- 
ed the  system  by  creating  a  network  of  public  schools  at  the  primary, 
secondary,  and  higher  levels.  Ismail's  wife  set  up  the  first  school 
for  girls  in  1873.  Between  1882  and  1922,  when  the  country  was 
under  British  administration,  state  education  did  not  expand.  How- 
ever, numerous  private  schools,  including  Egypt's  first  secular 
university,  were  established.  After  direct  British  rule  ended,  Egypt 
adopted  a  new  constitution  that  proclaimed  the  state's  responsibility 


143 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

to  ensure  adequate  primary  schools  for  all  Egyptians.  Neverthe- 
less, education  generally  remained  accessible  only  to  the  elite.  At 
the  time  of  the  1952  Revolution,  fewer  than  50  percent  of  all 
primary- school- age  children  attended  school,  and  the  majority  of 
the  children  who  were  enrolled  were  boys.  Nearly  75  percent  of 
the  population  over  ten  years  of  age  was  illiterate.  More  than  90 
percent  of  the  females  in  this  age  group  were  illiterate. 

The  Free  Officers  dramatically  expanded  educational  opportu- 
nities. They  pledged  to  provide  free  education  for  all  citizens  and 
abolished  all  fees  for  public  schools.  They  doubled  the  Ministry 
of  Education's  budget  in  one  decade;  government  spending  on  edu- 
cation grew  from  less  than  3  percent  of  the  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP— see  Glossary)  in  1952-53  to  more  than  5  percent  by  1978. 
Expenditures  on  school  construction  increased  1 ,000  percent  between 
1952  and  1976,  and  the  total  number  of  primary  schools  doubled 
to  10,000.  By  the  mid-1970s,  the  educational  budget  represented 
more  than  25  percent  of  the  government's  total  current  budget 
expenses.  Since  the  mid-1970s,  however,  the  government  has  vir- 
tually abandoned  the  country's  earlier  educational  goals.  Conse- 
quently, public  investment  in  new  educational  infrastructure  has 
declined  in  relation  to  total  educational  expenditures;  about  85  per- 
cent of  the  Ministry  of  Education's  budget  has  been  designated 
for  salaries. 

From  academic  year  1953-54  through  1965-66,  overall  enroll- 
ments more  than  doubled.  They  almost  doubled  again  from  1965- 
66  through  1975-76.  Since  1975  primary- school  enrollments  have 
continued  to  grow  at  an  average  of  4.1  percent  annually,  and  in- 
termediate school  (grades  seven  through  nine)  at  an  average  of  6.9 
percent  annually  (for  1985-86  enrollments,  see  table  2,  Appendix). 
The  proportion  of  the  population  with  some  secondary  education 
more  than  doubled  between  1960  and  1976;  the  number  of  people 
with  some  university  education  nearly  tripled.  Women  made  great 
educational  gains:  the  percentage  of  women  with  preuniversity  edu- 
cation grew  more  than  300  percent  while  women  with  university 
education  grew  more  than  600  percent.  By  academic  year  1985-86, 
about  84  percent  of  the  primary-school-age  population  (more  than 
6  million  of  the  7.2  million  children  between  the  ages  of  seven  and 
twelve)  were  enrolled  in  primary  school.  Less  than  30  percent  of 
eligible  youth,  however,  attended  intermediate  and  secondary 
schools.  Because  as  many  as  16  percent  of  Egyptian  children  were 
receiving  no  education  in  the  1980s,  the  literacy  rate  lagged  be- 
hind the  expansion  in  enrollments;  in  1990  only  45  percent  of  the 
population  could  read  and  write. 


144 


Literacy  class  for  girls  at  women 's 
vocational  training  center 
Courtesy  U NIC EF  (Sean  Sprague) 


Students  in  an  engineering 
class  at  Cairo  University 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt, 
Washington 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Law  Number  139  of  1981,  which  defined  the  structure  of  pre- 
university  public  education,  made  the  nine-year  basic  cycle  com- 
pulsory. Regardless  of  this  law,  most  parents  removed  their  children 
from  school  before  they  completed  ninth  grade.  The  basic  cycle 
included  six  years  of  primary  school  and  three  years  of  intermedi- 
ate school.  Promotion  from  primary  to  intermediate  school  was  con- 
tingent upon  obtaining  passing  scores  on  special  examinations. 
Admission  to  the  three-year  secondary  cycle  (grades  ten  through 
twelve)  also  was  determined  by  examination  scores.  Secondary  stu- 
dents chose  between  a  general  (college  preparatory)  curriculum  and 
a  technical  curriculum.  During  the  eleventh  and  twelfth  grades, 
students  in  the  general  curriculum  concentrated  their  studies  on 
the  humanities,  mathematics,  or  the  sciences.  Students  in  the  tech- 
nical curriculum  studied  agriculture,  communications,  or  indus- 
try. Students  could  advance  between  grades  only  after  they  received 
satisfactory  scores  on  standardized  tests.  The  Ministry  of  Educa- 
tion, however,  strictly  limited  the  number  of  times  a  student  could 
retake  an  examination.  ^ 

Various  government  ministries  also  operated  training  institutes 
that  accepted  students  who  had  completed  the  basic  cycle.  Training- 
institute  programs,  which  incorporated  both  secondary  and  post- 
secondary  vocational  education,  varied  in  length  and  provided 
certificates  to  students  who  successfully  completed  the  prescribed 
curricula.  Teacher- training  institutes,  for  example,  offered  a  five- 
year  program.  In  the  academic  year  1985-86,  approximately  85,000 
students  were  enrolled  in  all  training  programs;  60  percent  of  the 
enrollees  were  women. 

As  of  1990,  problems  persisted  in  Egypt's  education  system.  For 
example,  the  government  did  not  enforce  laws  requiring  primary- 
school-age  children  to  attend  school.  In  some  areas,  as  many  as 
50  percent  of  the  formally  enrolled  children  did  not  regularly  at- 
tend classes.  There  were  also  significant  regional  differences  in  the 
primary- school  enrollment  rate.  In  urban  areas,  nearly  90  percent 
of  the  school-age  children  attended.  In  some  rural  areas  of  Upper 
Egypt,  only  50  percent  attended.  Overall,  only  half  of  the  students 
enrolled  in  primary  school  completed  all  six  grades. 

The  enrollment  rate  for  girls  continued  to  be  significantly  lower 
than  for  boys.  Although  increases  in  the  number  of  girls  enrolled 
in  school  were  greater  than  they  were  for  boys  in  the  1960s  and 
1970s,  boys  still  outnumbered  girls  at  every  educational  level.  In 
1985-86,  for  example,  only  45  percent  of  all  primary  students  were 
girls.  An  estimated  75  percent  of  girls  between  the  ages  of  six  and 
twelve  were  enrolled  in  primary  school  compared  with  94  percent 
of  boys  in  the  same  age-group.  Girls'  primary- school  enrollment 


146 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

was  lowest  in  Upper  Egypt,  where  less  than  30  percent  of  all  stu- 
dents were  girls.  Girls  also  dropped  out  of  primary  school  more 
frequently  than  boys.  About  66- percent  of  the  boys  beginning 
primary  school  completed  the  primary  cycle,  while  only  57  per- 
cent of  the  girls  completed  all  six  grades.  Girls  accounted  for  about 
41  percent  of  total  intermediate  school  enrollment  and  39  percent 
of  secondary  school  enrollment.  Among  all  girls  aged  twelve  to  eigh- 
teen in  1985-86,  only  46  percent  were  enrolled  in  school. 

The  shortage  of  teachers  was  a  chronic  problem,  especially  in 
rural  primary  schools.  Under  British  rule,  educated  Egyptians  had 
perceived  teaching  as  a  career  that  lacked  prestige.  Young  people 
chose  this  career  only  when  there  was  no  other  option  or  when  it 
would  serve  as  a  stepping-stone  to  a  more  lucrative  career  in  law. 
Despite  improvements  in  training  and  salaries,  teaching — especially 
at  the  primary  level — remained  a  low-status  career.  In  1985-86, 
Egypt's  primary  and  secondary  schools  employed  only  155,000 
teachers  to  serve  9.6  million  pupils — a  ratio  of  about  62  students 
per  teacher.  Some  city  schools  were  so  crowded  that  they  operated 
two  shifts  daily.  Many  Egyptian  teachers  preferred  to  go  abroad, 
where  salaries  were  higher  and  classroom  conditions  better.  Dur- 
ing the  1980s,  the  government  granted  30,000  exit  visas  a  year  to 
teachers  who  had  contracts  to  teach  in  Arab  countries. 

Higher  education  expanded  even  more  dramatically  than  the 
preuniversity  system.  In  the  first  ten  years  following  the  1952  Revo- 
lution, spending  on  higher  education  increased  400  percent.  Be- 
tween academic  years  1951-52  and  1978-79,  student  enrollment 
in  public  universities  grew  nearly  1,400  percent.  In  1989-90  there 
were  fourteen  public  universities  with  a  total  enrollment  of  700,000. 
More  than  half  of  these  institutions  were  established  as  autono- 
mous universities  after  1952,  four  in  the  1970s  and  five  in  the  1980s. 
The  total  number  of  female  college  students  had  doubled;  by 
1985-86  women  accounted  for  32  percent  of  all  students.  In  the 
1980s,  public  universities — accounting  for  roughly  7  percent  of  total 
student  enrollment — received  more  than  one-fourth  of  all  current 
education-budget  spending. 

Since  the  late  1970s,  government  policies  have  attempted  to  re- 
orient postsecondary  education.  The  state  expanded  technical  train- 
ing programs  in  agriculture,  commerce,  and  a  variety  of  other  fields. 
Student  subsidies  were  partially  responsible  for  a  15  percent  an- 
nual increase  in  enrollments  in  the  country's  five-year  technical 
institutes.  The  technical  institutes  were  set  up  to  provide  the  growing 
private  sector  with  trained  personnel  and  to  alleviate  the  shortage 
of  skilled  labor.  Universities,  however,  permitted  graduates  of  secon- 
dary schools  and  technical  institutes  to  enroll  as  "external  students," 


147 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

which  meant  they  could  not  attend  classes  but  were  allowed  to  sit 
for  examinations  and  to  earn  degrees.  The  policy  resulted  in  a 
flourishing  clandestine  trade  in  class  notes  and  overburdened  profes- 
sors with  additional  examinations.  Further,  widespread  desire  for 
a  university  degree  led  many  students  in  technical  institutes  to  view 
their  curricula  as  simply  a  stepping-stone  to  a  university  degree. 

Health  and  Welfare 

Since  the  1952  Revolution,  the  government  has  striven  to  im- 
prove the  general  health  of  the  population.  The  National  Charter 
of  1962  stipulated  that  "the  right  of  health  welfare  is  foremost  among 
the  rights  of  every  citizen."  Per  capita  public  spending  for  health 
increased  almost  500  percent  between  1952  and  1976.  As  a  result 
of  this  spending,  the  average  Egyptian  in  1990  was  healthier  and 
lived  longer  than  the  typical  Egyptian  of  the  early  1950s.  For  ex- 
ample, life  expectancy  at  birth,  only  thirty-nine  years  in  1952,  had 
climbed  to  fifty-nine  years  for  men  and  sixty  years  for  women  by 
1989.  The  crude  death  rate,  which  was  23.9  in  1952,  had  declined 
to  10.3  by  1990.  Its  main  component,  the  infant  mortality  rate, 
declined  more  dramatically  in  the  same  period,  from  193  infant 
deaths  per  1,000  live  births  to  85  per  1,000.  Nevertheless,  major 
disparities  remained  in  the  mortality  rates  of  cities  and  villages  as 
well  as  in  those  of  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt.  Although  mortality 
and  morbidity  data  were  adequate  for  establishing  general  trends, 
they  were  not  reliable  for  precise  measurements.  Egypt's  official 
infant  mortality  rate,  for  example,  was  probably  understated  be- 
cause parents  tended  not  to  report  infants  who  died  in  the  first  few 
weeks  of  life.  Corrected  estimates  of  the  infant  mortality  rate  for 
1990  ranged  as  high  as  113  per  1,000  live  births. 

Although  mortality  rates  have  declined  since  1952,  the  main  causes 
of  death  (respiratory  ailments  and  diseases  of  the  digestive  tract) 
have  remained  unchanged  for  much  of  the  twentieth  century.  Death 
rates  for  infants  and  children  ages  one  to  five  dropped,  but  chil- 
dren remained  the  largest  contributors  to  the  mortality  rate.  Nearly 
seventeen  infants  and  four  children  under  five  years  of  age  died 
for  each  death  of  an  individual  between  age  five  and  thirty-four. 
Children  younger  than  five  years  of  age  accounted  for  about  half 
of  all  mortality — one  of  the  world's  highest  rates.  During  the  1980s, 
diarrhea  and  associated  dehydration  accounted  for  67  percent  of 
the  deaths  among  infants  and  children.  Concern  about  this  health 
problem  prompted  the  government  to  establish  the  National  Con- 
trol of  Diarrheal  Diseases  Project  (NCDDP)  in  1982.  With  funds 
provided  by  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  Develop- 
ment, NCDDP  initiated  a  program  to  educate  health  care  workers 


148 


Children 's  immunization  campaign  promoted  by  health  centers  nationwide 
Dayas  (traditional  birth  attendants),  with  the  medical  kits 
received  upon  completing  their  training 
Courtesy  UNICEF  (Sean  Sprague) 


149 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


and  families  about  oral-rehydration  therapy.  NCDDP's  efforts 
helped  reduce  diarrhea- related  deaths  by  60  percent  between  1983 
and  1988.  The  highest  rates  of  infant  mortality  were  in  Upper 
Egypt,  followed  by  Cairo,  Alexandria,  and  other  urban  areas;  the 
lowest  rates  were  in  Lower  Egypt. 

The  average  Egyptian's  nutritional  status  compared  favorably 
with  that  of  people  in  most  middle-  and  low-income  countries. 
Bread,  rice,  legumes,  seasonal  fresh  fruits,  and  vegetables  such  as 
onions  and  tomatoes  constituted  the  daily  diet  of  a  majority  of  the 
population.  Middle-  and  upper-income  families  also  regularly  con- 
sumed red  meat,  poultry,  or  fish.  Caloric  intake  was  adequate, 
although  there  were  indications  of  widespread  vitamin  deficiencies. 
The  most  recent  surveys  of  nutrition,  undertaken  in  the  late  1970s, 
revealed  that  approximately  25  percent  of  public- school  children 
were  either  malnourished  or  anemic.  The  incidence  of  poor  nutri- 
tion was  highest  in  rural  areas,  where  nearly  33  percent  of  sur- 
veyed children  were  malnourished,  compared  with  only  17  percent 
in  the  cities;  among  low-income  families,  about  50  percent  of  all 
children  showed  indications  of  inadequate  nutrition. 

The  major  endemic  diseases  in  1990  were  tuberculosis,  tracho- 
ma, schistosomiasis,  and  malaria.  Schistosomiasis,  carried  by  blood 
flukes  and  spread  to  humans  by  water-dwelling  snails,  was  a  major 
parasitic  affliction.  Historically,  the  disease  was  most  prevalent  in 
the  Delta,  where  standing  water  in  irrigation  ditches  provided  an 
ideal  environment  for  the  snails  and  other  parasites.  Those  work- 
ing in  agriculture  were  particularly  susceptible;  their  prevalence 
rate  was  nearly  three  times  that  of  nonagriculturists.  Debility  ow- 
ing to  schistosomiasis  could  not  be  calculated  accurately;  its  severity 
generally  varied  depending  on  the  infected  organs,  commonly  the 
bladder,  genitals,  liver,  and  lungs.  Treatments  for  the  disease  are 
not  always  effective,  and  the  main  medicines  have  toxic  side  ef- 
fects. The  government  tried  to  control  the  spread  of  the  disease 
by  educating  the  population  about  the  dangers  of  using  stagnant 
water.  According  to  Ministry  of  Health  statistics,  the  incidence  of 
schistosomiasis  dropped  by  half  between  1935  and  1966.  One  of 
the  negative  health  consequences  of  the  Aswan  High  Dam,  however, 
was  an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  schistosomiasis  in  Upper  Egypt, 
where  the  dam  has  permitted  a  change  from  basin  to  perennial 
agriculture  with  its  continuous  presence  of  standing  water. 

The  Ministry  of  Health  provided  free,  basic  health  care  at 
hundreds  of  public  medical  facilities.  General  health  centers  offered 
routine  medical  care,  maternal  and  child  care,  family  planning  ser- 
vices, and  screening  for  hospital  admittance.  These  clinics  were 
usually  associated  with  the  1,300  social  service  units  or  the  5,000 


150 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


social  care  cooperatives  that  served  both  urban  and  rural  areas. 
In  addition,  in  1990  the  Ministry  of  Health  maintained  344  general 
hospitals,  280  specialized  health  care  units  for  the  treatment  of  en- 
demic diseases,  respiratory  ailments,  cancer  and  other  diseases,  and 
dental  centers.  There  were  about  45,000  beds  in  all  government 
hospitals,  plus  an  additional  40,000  beds  available  in  private  health 
institutes.  The  number  of  trained  medical  personnel  was  high  rela- 
tive to  most  middle-income  countries.  In  1990  there  were  more 
than  73,300  doctors  in  the  country,  approximately  1  physician  per 
715  inhabitants.  There  were  also  about  70,000  certified  nurses. 
Medical  personnel  tended  to  be  concentrated  in  the  cities,  and  most 
preferred  private  practice  to  employment  in  public  facilities.  Few- 
er than  30  percent  of  all  doctors  and  scarcely  10  percent  of  nurses 
served  in  villages. 

Although  public  health  clinics  were  distributed  relatively  even- 
ly throughout  the  country,  their  services  were  generally  inadequate 
because  of  the  shortage  of  doctors  and  nurses  and  the  lack  of  modern 
equipment.  In  both  cities  and  villages,  patients  using  the  free  or 
low-cost  government  facilities  expected  a  lengthy  journey  and  a 
long  wait  to  see  a  physician;  service  was  usually  impersonal  and 
perfunctory.  Dissatisfaction  with  public  clinics  forced  even  low- 
income  patients  to  patronize  the  expensive  private  clinics.  In  rural 
areas,  village  midwives  assisted  between  50  percent  and  80  per- 
cent of  all  births.  Even  when  women  used  the  maternal  care  avail- 
able, prenatal  care  was  minimal,  and  most  births  occurred  before 
trained  personnel  arrived. 

Further  improvements  in  the  health  of  Egyptians  required  in- 
creasing the  effectiveness  of  the  primary  health-care  system  and 
improving  public  sanitation  and  health  education.  In  1990  approx- 
imately 25  percent  of  the  total  population,  including  36  percent 
of  all  villagers,  did  not  have  access  to  safe  water  for  drinking  and 
food  preparation.  Use  of  unhygienic  water  was  the  major  cause 
of  diarrheal  diseases.  In  addition,  more  than  50  percent  of  all 
families  lived  in  homes  that  lacked  plumbing.  Sewage  facilities 
throughout  the  country  were  inadequate.  Increasing  the  level  of 
women's  education  would  probably  help  to  decrease  the  infant  mor- 
tality rate.  Studies  have  found  that  infant  mortality  decreases  as 
mothers  increase  their  level  of  education,  even  when  age  and 
family  income  are  held  constant.  Surveys  undertaken  in  the  1970s 
indicated  that  78  percent  of  the  infants  born  to  illiterate  women 
survived  early  childhood.  That  figure  increased  to  84  percent  for 
infants  born  to  women  who  finished  primary  school  and  to  90  per- 
cent for  infants  born  to  women  with  secondary  or  higher  education. 


151 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

The  government  also  had  established  1,300  social  service  centers 
and  5,100  social  care  cooperatives  by  1990.  The  social  service  cen- 
ters provided  instruction  in  adult  literacy,  health  education,  voca- 
tional training,  and  family  planning.  The  social  care  cooperatives 
had  similar  services  and  also  provided  child  care  centers  for  work- 
ing mothers,  aid  for  the  handicapped,  and  transportation  for  the 
elderly  and  infirm.  About  65  percent  of  the  social  service  centers 
were  in  villages;  65  percent  of  social  care  cooperatives  were  in  cities. 
In  many  villages,  the  social  service  centers  were  associated  with 
the  local  public  health  clinic  and  supplemented  the  primary  health 
care  services.  The  overall  impact  of  the  centers  and  cooperatives 
has  been  limited  by  the  lack  of  funding  since  the  late  1970s. 

The  government  instituted  a  social  security  program  in  the  ear- 
ly 1960s  to  provide  pensions,  through  forced  savings,  for  employees. 
Coverage  also  included  unemployment,  disability,  and  death  bene- 
fits. In  1990  less  than  half  of  the  work  force  participated  in  the  pro- 
gram. Self-employed  individuals  and  most  private  sector  workers 
(including  domestics,  farm  workers,  and  casual  laborers)  were  not 
covered  by  the  program.  The  overwhelming  majority  of  participants 
were  civil  servants  and  employees  of  government  enterprises.  Work- 
ers in  private  factories  could  only  participate  in  social  security  if 
their  employers  chose  to  make  regular  contributions  to  the  program. 

*    *  * 

Although  there  is  extensive  English-language  literature  on  Egypt, 
few  studies  treat  Egyptian  society  comprehensively.  The  most  detailed 
discussion  of  Egypt's  geography  is  in  W.B.  Fisher's  The  Middle  East. 
This  research  has  been  updated  in  the  article,  "Egypt:  Physical  and 
Social  Geography,"  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1989. 

A  useful  overview  of  contemporary  Egyptian  society  is  Anthony 
McDermott's  Egypt  From  Nasser  to  Mubarak.  Although  primarily  poli- 
tical science  books,  Raymond  A.  Hinnebusch,  Jr.'s  Egyptian  Poli- 
tics under  Sadat,  Robert  Springborg's  Mubarak's  Egypt,  and  John 
Waterbury's  The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat  all  contain  valuable  detail 
about  social  groups  and  the  impact  of  the  government's  social  and 
economic  policies  on  class  structure. 

Several  scholars  have  written  insightful  studies  of  rural  society. 
The  classic  study  of  traditional  village  life,  first  published  in  French 
in  the  1930s,  is  Henry  Habib  Ayrout's  The  Egyptian  Peasant. 
Although  Ayrout's  data  are  outdated,  his  descriptions  of  customs, 
kinship,  and  farming  techniques  still  have  contemporary  relevance. 
A  recent  book,  Lila  Abu-Lughod's  Veiled  Sentiments,  presents  equally 
thorough  descriptions  of  customs  and  kinship  patterns  among  the 


152 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

beduins.  Egypt's  land  redistribution  policies  of  the  1950s  and  1960s 
have  attracted  considerable  interest  from  scholars  who  have  reached 
very  different  conclusions  about  the  impact  of  the  policies.  Iliya 
Harik's  The  Political  Mobilization  of  Peasants  suggests  that  the  small 
peasant  owners  and  the  landless  benefited  most  from  redistribu- 
tion. However,  in  In  a  Moment  of  Enthusiasm  Leonard  Binder  argues 
that  the  land  redistribution  primarily  benefited  and  helped  to  con- 
solidate the  class  of  middle  peasants.  Hamied  Ansari  challenges 
the  theses  of  Harik  and  Binder  in  Egypt:  The  Stalled  Society.  In  Family, 
Power  and  Politics  in  Egypt,  Robert  Springborg  argues  that  the  old 
landlord  class  retained  substantial  influence  and  continued  to  control 
substantial  land  despite  official  limits  on  individual  holdings. 

There  are  many  studies  about  life  in  urban  Egypt.  Among  the 
most  interesting  is  Unni  Wikan's  Life  Among  the  Poor  of  Cairo.  This 
book,  a  case  study  of  the  family  and  friends  of  one  lower-class  wom- 
an, provides  valuable  insights  into  the  strength  of  family  ties  in 
the  midst  of  poverty  and  adversity.  Andrea  B.  Rugh's  Family  in 
Contemporary  Egypt  analyzes  the  various  family  adaptation  patterns 
to  the  social  and  economic  changes  that  have  been  occurring  since 
the  1960s. 

Articles  in  many  periodicals  address  the  role  of  religion  in  con- 
temporary Egyptian  society.  The  most  useful  studies  generally  are 
published  in  current  issues  of  quarterlies  such  as  the  International 
Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  Middle  East  Report,  and  Middle  East 
Journal.  Giles  Keppel's  Muslim  Extremism  in  Egypt  is  a  penetrating 
study  of  the  role  of  Islamic  political  groups  in  the  late  1970s  and 
early  1980s. 

Finally,  one  of  the  most  valuable  ways  of  gaining  insight  into 
Egyptian  society  is  through  the  novels,  plays,  and  short  stories  of 
several  contemporary  writers  whose  works  have  been  translated 
into  English.  The  best-known  novelist  is  Naguib  Mahfouz,  who 
won  the  Nobel  Prize  for  Literature  in  1988.  His  novels,  including 
Midaq  Alley,  The  Fountain  and  Tomb,  Mirrors,  and  The  Trilogy,  deal 
with  the  lives  of  the  poor  and  the  middle  class  and  provide  glimpses 
into  the  impact  of  social,  political,  and  economic  changes  on  in- 
dividuals and  families.  (For  further  information  and  complete  cita- 
tions, see  Bibliography.) 


153 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Senwosret  (Kheperkare)  and  god  Min;  sunken  relief  on  limestone 
with  hieroglyphs 


FROM  THE  1850s  UNTIL  the  1930s,  Egypt's  economy  exhibited 
a  classic  Third  World  dependency  syndrome,  the  essence  of  which 
was  reliance  on  the  export  of  a  single,  usually  primary,  commodity. 
In  the  case  of  Egypt,  the  commodity  was  long-staple  cotton,  in- 
troduced in  the  mid- 1820s  during  the  reign  of  Muhammad  Ali 
(1805-49),  and  made  possible  by  the  switch  from  basin  to  peren- 
nial, modern  irrigation.  Cotton  cultivation  was  a  key  ingredient 
in  an  ambitious  program  that  the  Egyptian  ruler  undertook  to  diver- 
sify and  develop  the  economy. 

Another  such  ingredient  was  industrialization.  Industrialization, 
however,  proved  for  various  domestic  and  external  reasons  to  be 
less  than  successful,  and  until  the  1930s,  virtually  no  industrial 
build-up  occurred.  The  failure  of  industrialization  resulted  large- 
ly from  tariff  restrictions  that  Britain  imposed  on  Egypt  through 
the  1838  commercial  treaty,  which  allowed  only  minuscule  tariffs, 
if  any.  The  isolated  industrial  ventures  initiated  by  members  of 
Egypt's  landed  aristocracy,  who  otherwise  channeled  their  invest- 
ment into  land  acquisition  and  speculation,  were  nipped  in  the  bud 
by  foreign  competition.  The  few  surviving  enterprises  were  owned 
by  the  foreign  community.  These  enterprises  either  enjoyed  natural 
protection  as  in  the  case  of  sugar  and  cotton  processing,  or  benefited 
from  the  special  skills  that  the  foreign  owners  had  acquired,  as  in 
the  case  of  cigarette  making  by  Greeks  and  Turks. 

The  beginnings  of  industrialization  awaited  the  depression  of  the 
late  1920s  and  1930s  and  World  War  II.  The  depression  sent  cot- 
ton prices  tumbling,  and  Britain  acceded  to  Egyptian  demands  to 
raise  tariffs.  Moreover,  World  War  II,  by  substantially  reducing 
the  flow  of  foreign  goods  into  the  country,  gave  further  impetus 
to  the  establishment  of  import- substitution  industries.  A  distinguish- 
ing feature  of  the  factories  built  at  this  time  was  that  they  were 
owned  by  Egyptian  entrepreneurs. 

In  spite  of  the  lack  of  industrialization,  the  economy  grew  rapidly 
throughout  the  nineteenth  century.  Growth,  however,  was  con- 
fined to  the  cotton  sector  and  the  supporting  transportation,  finan- 
cial, and  other  facilities.  Little  of  the  cotton  revenues  was  invested 
in  economic  development.  The  revenues  were  largely  drained  out 
of  the  country  as  repatriated  profits  or  repayments  of  debts  that 
the  state  had  incurred  to  pay  for  irrigation  works  and  the  ex- 
travagance of  the  khedives. 


157 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Rapid  economic  growth  ended  in  the  early  1900s.  The  supply 
of  readily  available  land  had  been  largely  exhausted  and  multiple 
cropping,  concentration  on  cotton,  and  perennial  irrigation  had 
lessened  the  fertility  of  the  soil.  Cotton  yields  dropped  in  the  early 
1900s  and  recovered  to  their  former  level  only  in  the  1940s,  through 
investments  in  modern  inputs  such  as  fertilizers  and  drainage. 

The  fall  in  agricultural  productivity  and  terms  of  trade  led  to 
a  stagnation  in  the  per  capita  gross  national  product  (GNP — see 
Glossary)  between  the  end  of  World  War  I  and  the  1952  Revolution: 
the  GNP  averaged  £E43.0  (for  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see 
Glossary),  in  1954  prices,  at  both  ends  of  the  period.  By  1952  Egypt 
was  in  the  throes  of  both  economic  and  political  crises,  which  cul- 
minated in  the  assumption  of  power  by  the  Free  Officers. 

Structure,  Growth,  and  Development  of  the  Economy 

By  necessity  if  not  by  design,  the  revolutionary  regime  gave  con- 
siderably greater  priority  to  economic  development  than  did  the 
monarchy,  and  the  economy  has  been  a  central  government  con- 
cern since  then.  While  the  economy  grew  steadily,  it  sometimes 
exhibited  sharp  fluctuations.  Analysis  of  economic  growth  is  fur- 
ther complicated  by  the  difficulty  in  obtaining  reliable  statistics. 
Growth  figures  are  often  disputed,  and  economists  contend  that 
growth  estimates  may  be  grossly  inaccurate  because  of  the  infor- 
mal economy  and  workers'  remittances,  which  may  contribute  as 
much  as  one-fourth  of  GNP  (see  Remittances,  this  ch.).  According 
to  one  estimate,  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary), 
at  1965  constant  prices,  grew  at  an  annual  compound  rate  of  about 
4.2  percent  between  1955  and  1975.  This  was  about  1.7  times  larger 
than  the  annual  population  growth  rate  of  2 . 5  percent  in  the  same 
period.  The  period  between  1967  and  1974,  the  final  years  of  Gamal 
Abdul  Nasser's  presidency  and  the  early  part  of  Anwar  as  Sadat's, 
however,  were  lean  years,  with  growth  rates  of  only  about  3.3  per- 
cent. The  slowdown  was  caused  by  many  factors,  including  agricul- 
tural and  industrial  stagnation  and  the  costs  of  the  June  1967  War. 
Investments,  which  were  a  crucial  factor  for  the  preceding  growth, 
also  nose-dived  and  recovered  only  in  1975  after  the  dramatic  1973 
increase  in  oil  prices. 

Like  most  countries  in  the  Middle  East,  Egypt  partook  of  the 
oil  boom  and  suffered  the  subsequent  slump.  Available  figures  sug- 
gest that  between  1975  and  1980  the  GDP  (at  1980  prices)  grew 
at  an  annual  rate  of  more  than  1 1  percent.  This  impressive  achieve- 
ment resulted,  not  from  the  contribution  of  manufacturing  or 
agriculture,  but  from  oil  exports,  remittances,  foreign  aid,  and 
grants  (see  Balance  of  Payments  and  Main  Sources  of  Foreign 


158 


The  Economy 


Exchange,  this  ch.).  From  the  mid-1980s,  the  GDP  growth  slowed 
as  a  result  of  the  1985-86  crash  in  oil  prices.  In  the  two  succeeding 
years,  the  GDP  grew  at  no  more  than  an  annual  rate  of  2.9  per- 
cent. Of  concern  for  the  future  was  the  decline  of  the  fixed  invest- 
ment ratio  from  around  30  percent  during  most  of  the  1975-85 
decade  to  22  percent  in  1987. 

The  post-World  War  II  growth  was  accompanied  by  a  certain 
degree  of  diversification  of  the  economic  structure,  although  not 
without  serious  flaws  in  the  diversification  (see  table  3,  Appendix). 
By  1952  agriculture's  share  of  GDP  at  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glos- 
sary) 1959  market  prices  was  33  percent,  industry's  (including  min- 
ing and  electricity)  share  reached  13  percent,  and  the  service  sectors' 
share  amounted  to  54  percent.  The  diversification  resulted  from 
the  decline  of  agriculture's  contribution  to  the  GDP  and  the  ascen- 
dancy of  industry  and,  particularly,  of  government  services.  Agricul- 
ture's share  in  the  GDP  dropped  by  more  than  half  from  1952, 
stabilizing  near  15  percent  through  most  of  the  1980s.  Industry's 
share  moved  in  the  opposite  direction:  from  only  13  percent  in  1952, 
it  hovered  around  35  percent  in  the  1980s. 

Although  the  industrial  sector's  contribution  to  the  GNP  rose 
during  this  period,  that  growth  was  due  to  the  increase  in  energy- 
related  activity,  especially  oil-drilling.  Manufacturing  stagnated  and 
may  even  have  declined.  In  1974  (when  data  for  the  subsector  be- 
came available),  manufacturing  accounted  for  15  percent  of  GNP, 
but  its  share  fell  to  12  percent  in  1986  and  remained  there  in  early 
1990.  The  lackluster  performance  of  manufacturing  was  one  of  the 
main  reasons  for  the  Egyptian  economy's  inability  to  become  self- 
sustaining,  and  for  its  dependence  on  oil  and  external  financing. 

The  services  (including  construction)  held  relatively  steady,  com- 
prising around  one-half  of  GDP,  a  figure  that  included  the  contri- 
butions of  the  various  subsectors.  An  important  subsector  from  a 
developmental  viewpoint  was  the  one  entitled  "other  services" — 
mostly  government  services.  These  averaged  14.2  percent  of  the 
growth  in  GDP  in  the  years  from  1952  to  1959  and  32.7  percent 
of  the  growth  in  the  years  from  1959  to  1969.  The  increase  resulted 
primarily  from  the  expansion  in  the  bureaucracy  that  followed  the 
1961  decree  guaranteeing  government  jobs  for  all  university  gradu- 
ates. The  trend  continued  under  Anwar  as  Sadat  (1970-79),  and 
slowed,  or  may  have  reversed  under  Husni  Mubarak  as  the  state 
became  financially  incapable  of  hiring  the  many  new  job-seeking 
graduates  (see  The  Role  of  Government,  this  ch.).  Although  govern- 
ment employment  may  have  encouraged  economic  growth  tem- 
porarily, it  impeded  it  over  the  long  run,  competing  for  scarce 
investment  funds  and  exacerbating  the  trade  deficit. 


159 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 
Infrastructure 

In  spite  of  progress  in  the  1980s,  by  the  end  of  the  decade  Egypt 
still  had  a  long  way  to  go  in  expanding  and  improving  existing  ser- 
vices such  as  housing,  transportation,  telecommunications,  and  water 
supply.  Housing  remained  inadequate;  urban  dwellings  were  often 
very  crowded,  and  residents  lived  in  makeshift  accommodations. 
Housing  was  essentially  a  private  activity,  and  the  government  tend- 
ed to  underinvest  in  the  sector.  The  electric  grid  reached  essen- 
tially all  villages  in  Egypt  by  the  early  1980s,  but  blackouts  in  Cairo 
and  other  cities  were  not  uncommon.  A  major  sewage  project  was 
under  way.  It  aimed  at  revamping  and  expanding  the  overflow- 
ing, antiquated  network  of  sewers,  pumping  stations,  and  treat- 
ment plants.  Some  of  the  work  was  scheduled  for  completion  by 
1991 .  With  help  from  the  United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID),  telephone  lines  doubled  at  the  end  of  the  FY 
1982-86  Five-Year  Plan. 

Because  infrastructural  improvements  and  additions  were  cost- 
ly and  required  a  long  lead  time,  no  relief  was  anticipated  before 
the  mid-1990s.  The  FY  1987-91  Five-Year  Plan  allocated  more 
than  £E4.1  billion  for  infrastructure.  The  problem  that  faced  the 
government  was  how  to  balance  the  badly  needed  improvement 
of  the  infrastructure  against  the  fact  that  such  investments  created 
only  temporary  employment  and  had  small  impact  on  industries 
that  served  or  were  served  by  the  infrastructure. 

Transportation 

Egypt's  road  and  rail  network  was  developed  primarily  to  trans- 
port population  and  was  most  extensive  in  the  densely  populated 
areas  near  the  Nile  River  (Nahr  an  Nil)  and  in  the  Nile  Delta.  Areas 
along  the  Mediterranean  coast  were  generally  served  by  a  few  paved 
roads  or  rail  lines,  but  large  areas  of  the  Western  Desert,  Sinai 
Peninsula  (Sinai),  and  the  mountains  in  the  east  were  inaccessible 
except  by  air  (see  fig.  5).  The  Nile  and  a  system  of  canals  in  the 
Delta  were  the  traditional  means  of  transporting  goods,  although 
freight  was  increasingly  carried  by  truck  or  rail.  The  entire  sys- 
tem was  unable  to  keep  up  with  rapid  population  growth,  particu- 
larly in  the  large  urban  areas,  and  expansion  and  modernization 
of  all  forms  of  transportation  were  under  way. 

In  early  1990,  Egypt  had  more  than  49,000  kilometers  of  roads, 
of  which  about  15,000  kilometers  were  paved,  2,500  kilometers  were 
gravel,  and  the  remaining  31,500  kilometers  were  earthen.  The 
highway  system  was  concentrated  in  the  Nile  Valley  north  of  Aswan 
and  throughout  the  Delta;  paved  roads  also  extended  along  the 


160 


5 


! 


The  Economy 


Mediterranean  coast  from  the  Libyan  border  in  the  west  to  the  bor- 
der with  Israel.  In  the  east,  a  surfaced  road  ran  south  from  Suez 
along  the  Red  Sea,  and  another  connected  areas  along  the  southern 
coast  of  Sinai  from  Suez  to  the  Israeli  town  of  Elat.  A  well  main- 
tained route  circled  through  several  western  oases  and  tied  into  the 
main  Nile  corridor  of  highways  at  Cairo  in  the  north  and  Asyut 
in  the  south.  Large  areas  of  the  Western  Desert,  the  mountainous 
areas  near  the  Red  Sea,  and  the  interior  of  the  Sinai  Peninsula 
remained  without  any  permanent- surface  roads,  however. 

The  state-owned  Egyptian  Railways  had  more  than  4,800  kilome- 
ters of  track  running  through  the  populated  areas  of  the  Nile  Valley 
and  the  coastal  regions.  Most  of  the  track  was  1.435-meter  stan- 
dard gauge,  although  347  kilometers  were  0.750-meter  narrow 
gauge.  Portions  of  the  main  route  connecting  Luxor  with  Cairo  and 
Alexandria  were  double  tracked  and  a  commuter  line  linking  Cairo 
with  the  suburb  of  Hulwan  was  electrified.  Built  primarily  to  trans- 
port people,  the  passenger  service  along  the  Nile  was  heavily  used. 

Less  heavily  traveled  routes  provided  connections  to  outlying 
areas.  A  coastal  route  west  from  Alexandria  to  the  Libyan  border 
was  being  upgraded  to  allow  for  increased  passenger  travel.  Tracks 
along  the  Mediterranean  coast  of  Sinai,  destroyed  during  the  June 
1967  War,  had  been  repaired,  and  service  was  restored  between 
Al  Qantarah  on  the  Suez  Canal  and  the  Israeli  railroad  system  in 
the  Gaza  Strip.  New  ferry  boats  allowed  passengers  at  Aswan,  the 
southern  terminus  of  the  Egyptian  Railways,  to  connect  with  the 
Sudanese  system.  A  new  line  intended  to  export  phosphates  was 
under  construction  from  Al  Kharijah  in  the  Western  Desert  to  the 
port  of  Bur  Safajah. 

The  southern  leg  of  the  forty-two-kilometer  Cairo  Metro,  the 
first  subway  system  in  Africa  or  the  Middle  East,  opened  in  1987. 
This  line,  built  with  the  cooperation  of  France,  linked  Hulwan  in 
the  south  with  three  main  downtown  stations,  named  Sadat,  Nasser, 
and  Mubarak.  In  1989  the  northeast  line  opened,  extending  from 
downtown  to  the  suburbs.  The  city  planned  to  build  an  east- west 
route  across  the  Nile  to  Giza  (Al  Jizah).  The  government  hoped 
that  the  subway  construction  would  relieve  the  extremely  jammed 
streets,  buses,  streetcars,  and  trains. 

Although  Egypt  had  sixty- six  airfields  with  paved  runways,  only 
the  airports  at  Cairo  and  Alexandria  handled  international  traffic. 
EgyptAir,  the  principal  government  airline,  maintained  an  exten- 
sive international  network  and  had  domestic  flights  from  Cairo  and 
Alexandria  to  Luxor,  Aswan,  Abu  Simbel  (Abu  Sunbul),  and  Al 
Ghardaqah  on  the  Red  Sea.  In  1983  EgyptAir  carried  1.6  million 
passengers.  A  smaller,  state-owned  airline,  Air  Sinai,  provided 


163 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

service  from  Cairo  to  points  in  the  Sinai  Peninsula.  Zas  Passenger 
Service,  the  newest  airline  and  the  only  one  that  was  privately 
owned,  had  daily  flights  from  Cairo  to  Aswan,  Luxor,  Al  Gharda- 
qah,  and  points  in  Sinai. 

Alexandria  was  Egypt's  principal  port  and  in  the  early  1990s 
was  capable  of  handling  13  million  metric  tons  of  cargo  yearly. 
Egypt's  two  other  main  ports,  Port  Said  (Bur  Said)  and  Suez,  re- 
opened in  1975,  after  an  eight-year  hiatus  following  the  June  1967 
War.  Realizing  the  importance  of  shipping  to  the  economy,  the 
government  embarked  on  an  ambitious  plan  in  the  late  1980s  to 
build  new  ports  and  increase  capacity  at  existing  facilities,  includ- 
ing constructing  a  facility  capable  of  handling  up  to  20  million  metric 
tons  of  cargo  just  west  of  Alexandria.  Bur  Safajah  on  the  Red  Sea 
was  being  developed  to  handle  phosphate  exports,  and  the  first  stage 
of  a  new  port  at  the  mouth  of  the  Nile's  eastern  Damietta  (Dumyat) 
tributary  opened  in  1986. 

Egypt  had  about  3,500  kilometers  of  inland  waterways.  The  Nile 
constituted  about  half  of  this  system,  and  the  rest  was  canals.  Several 
canals  in  the  Delta  accommodated  ocean-going  vessels,  and  a  canal 
from  the  Nile  just  north  of  Cairo  to  the  Suez  Canal  at  Ismailia 
(Al  Ismailiyah)  permitted  ships  to  pass  from  the  Nile  to  the  Red 
Sea  without  entering  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  Extensive  boat  and 
ferry  service  on  Lake  Nasser  moved  cargo  and  passengers  between 
Aswan  and  Sudan. 

The  Suez  Canal  was  Egypt's  most  important  waterway  and  one 
of  the  world's  strategic  links,  being  the  shortest  maritime  route  be- 
tween Europe  and  the  Middle  East,  South  Asia,  and  the  Orient. 
Serious  proposals  for  a  canal  between  the  Mediterranean  and  the 
Red  Sea  had  been  made  as  early  as  the  fifteenth  century  by  the 
Venetians,  and  Napoleon  ordered  the  first  survey  of  the  region  to 
assess  a  canal's  feasibility  in  1799.  After  several  subsequent  studies 
in  the  early  nineteenth  century,  construction  began  in  1859.  After 
ten  years  of  construction  and  numerous  unforeseen  difficulties,  the 
canal  finally  opened  in  1869  (see  Suez^Canal,  this  ch.). 

The  canal  extends  160  kilometers  from  Port  Said  on  the  Mediter- 
ranean to  a  point  just  south  of  Suez  on  the  Red  Sea.  It  can  handle 
ships  with  up  to  sixteen  meters  draught;  transit  times  through  the 
length  of  the  canal  averaged  fifteen  hours.  Passing  occurs  in  con- 
voys with  large  passing  bays  every  twenty-five  kilometers  to  ac- 
commodate traffic  from  opposite  directions.  Traffic  patterns  have 
changed  considerably  over  the  last  century,  reflecting  different 
global  priorities:  passenger  transit  has  dropped  while  the  move- 
ment of  goods,  especially  petroleum,  has  increased  dramatically. 


164 


Cairo  metro  train,  the  first  underground  system  in  the  Middle  East  and  in  Africa 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt,  Washington 

It  was  estimated  that  before  the  1967  Arab-Israeli  War,  15  percent 
of  the  world's  total  sea  traffic  passed  through  the  canal. 

Communications 

In  addition  to  its  radio  and  television  facilities,  which  were  well 
developed,  Egypt  had  a  domestic  telephone  system  that  in  1984 
counted  approximately  600,000  telephones,  most  of  them  located 
in  Cairo  or  Alexandria  (see  The  Political  Role  of  the  Media,  ch. 
4).  Although  improvement  to  the  system  was  under  way  in  the  early 
1990s,  domestic  service  was  still  unreliable.  The  quality  of  inter- 
national service  was  better,  as  international  calls  traveled  over  a 
variety  of  high-quality  links:  submarine  cables  to  Lebanon  and  to 
southern  Europe;  radio-relay  links  with  Libya  and  Sudan;  and  a 
ground  satellite  station  just  south  of  Cairo  with  two  antennas  for 
worldwide  telephone,  television,  and  data  transmissions.  Egypt  was 
to  be  a  focal  part  of  the  Arab  Satellite  (Arabsat)  communications 
network  linking  the  various  Arab  states,  scheduled  to  be  inaugu- 
rated in  1991. 

The  Role  of  Government 

Muhammad  Ali's  era  saw  strong  state  intervention  in  the  economy; 
the  subsequent  century  witnessed  a  passive  state  and  the  dominance 


165 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

of  private  foreign  and  domestic  investors.  Yet  both  failed  to  achieve 
economic  development  or  to  lift  Egypt  from  poverty  and  depen- 
dence. The  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser  regime  (1952-70)  inherited  an 
underdeveloped  economy  with  great  inequalities.  A  few  rich  foreign- 
ers and  nationals  controlled  the  country's  wealth,  from  large  landed 
estates  to  manufacturing  and  commercial  firms,  while  the  bulk  of 
the  population  was  poor  and  disenfranchised.  The  new  regime,  bor- 
rowing from  the  debates  and  programs  put  forward  by  various  po- 
litical parties  and  interests  during  the  1930s  and  World  War  II, 
undertook  the  task  of  economic  restructuring  (see  Nasser  and  Arab 
Socialism,  ch.  1). 

The  process  transformed  the  state  into  the  dominant  economic 
agent  in  the  country  and  culminated  in  a  new  economic  system 
labeled  "Arab  socialism"  in  the  National  Charter  issued  in  1962. 
The  government  implemented  a  land  reform  program  that  aimed 
at  eliminating  what  it  referred  to  as  a  "feudalist"  stratification  of 
landholding  and  instead  distributing  land  to  small  peasants  and 
the  landless.  By  1964  a  huge  public  sector  had  evolved,  including 
all  utilities,  communications,  and  finance  as  well  as  large  manufac- 
turing enterprises,  transportation,  wholesale  and  foreign  trade,  some 
big  retail  stores,  and  construction  firms.  By  1973  the  ratio  of  pub- 
lic to  private  in  the  composition  of  GDP  was  58  to  42  in  contrast 
to  15  to  85  in  1953.  The  government  fixed  the  exchange  rate  of 
the  Egyptian  pound,  began  development  planning,  and  controlled 
foreign  trade.  Nasser  nationalized  the  Suez  Canal  in  1956  and  in 
the  early  1960s  nationalized  about  300  key  enterprises  owned  by 
Egyptian  nationals  and  foreigners.  The  private  sector  came  under 
extensive  regulation. 

Because  of  the  economic  difficulties  in  the  second  half  of  the 
1960s,  which  were  exacerbated  by  the  June  1967  War  with  Israel, 
the  regime  began  to  reconsider  aspects  of  state  controls  and  its  at- 
titude toward  the  private  sector.  A  pronounced  shift  in  orienta- 
tion, however,  awaited  Sadat's  takeover  at  the  end  of  1970. 

A  combination  of  economic  problems,  political  considerations, 
and  his  own  predilections  led  Sadat  after  the  October  1973  War, 
to  declare  a  new  policy  he  dubbed  infitah  (opening  or  open  door). 
The  main  ingredients  of  the  policy  were  to  relax  existing  govern- 
ment controls  over  the  economy  and  bureaucratic  procedures,  to 
encourage  the  private  sector,  and  to  stimulate  a  large  inflow  of  for- 
eign funds. 

The  open-door  policy  succeeded  in  generating  a  large  inflow  of 
foreign  funds  in  the  form  of  remittances,  foreign  grants,  and  aid, 
especially  from  the  United  States  after  the  signing  of  the  Camp 
David  Accords  with  Israel.  The  economy  also  grew  at  impressive 


166 


The  Economy 


rates.  But  the  negative  side  of  the  policy  was  that  the  country  was 
flooded  with  imports,  and  the  government  was  compelled  several 
times  in  the  1980s  to  reimpose  import  restrictions  (see  Imports; 
Balance  of  Payments  and  Main  Sources  of  Foreign  Exchange,  this 
ch.).  The  income  gap  between  rich  and  poor  widened,  and  con- 
spicuous consumption  reappeared  (see  Urban  Society,  ch.  2). 

Despite  the  infitah,  the  government  found  itself  even  more  deeply 
involved  in  the  economy.  Subsidies  grew  from  1  percent  of  GDP  in 
1970  to  11  percent  in  1979.  The  state's  contribution  to  fixed  in- 
vestment remained  high,  at  87  percent  in  1977.  In  the  same  year, 
government  employment  accounted  for  32  percent  of  the  total,  but 
the  increased  personnel  did  little  to  clear  up  the  bureaucratic  snarls 
that  blocked  development.  Private  domestic  and  international  in- 
vestment went  primarily  to  housing  and  trading  companies.  For- 
eign investment  remained  meager  because  of  the  cumbersome 
regulations,  the  bureaucracy,  the  political  uncertainty,  and  insuffi- 
cient incentives. 

Mubarak's  Gradualism? 

Whereas  Nasser  followed  a  statist  approach  to  economics  and 
Sadat,  at  least  in  theory,  tried  to  break  away  from  that  model 
through  infitah,  analysts  found  it  harder  to  label  Mubarak's  poli- 
cy. It  has  variously  been  called  4 'gradualism, ' '  "reform  by  stealth, ' ' 
and  even  "indecisiveness."  The  president  himself  seemed  to  indi- 
cate his  commitment  to  privatization  and  at  the  same  time  to  the 
public  sector,  which  he  once  described  as  the  only  cushion  for  the 
poor.  Analysts  attributed  this  state  of  affairs  to  such  reasons  as  the 
personality  of  the  president,  vested  public  and  private  interests, 
fragmentation  of  the  elite,  the  government's  long-standing  com- 
mitment to  providing  a  safety  net  for  the  broad  mass  of  the  popu- 
lation that  was  its  main  source  of  legitimacy,  the  questionable 
success  of  the  infitah,  and  the  sheer  weight  of  the  bureaucracy. 

Available  information  seemed  to  indicate  perceptible,  albeit  slow, 
changes  in  the  relative  weights  of  the  state  and  private  sectors  in 
the  economy  that  favored  the  latter.  For  example,  between  FY  1983 
and  FY  1986  the  ratio  of  public  investment  to  gross  investment 
dropped  from  83  percent  to  70  percent.  The  FY  1987-91  Five- Year 
Plan  envisioned  private  sector  investment  to  rise  to  39  percent  of 
all  investment  compared  with  23  percent  in  the  previous  plan.  In 
September  1982,  Mubarak  introduced  a  new  investment  law  that 
offered  Egyptian  investors  most  of  the  privileges  foreign  investors 
had  enjoyed.  The  draft  of  another  new  investment  law  was  being 
debated  in  early  1989  in  the  People's  Assembly  (Majlis  ash  Shaab, 
formerly  the  National  Assembly),  but  as  of  early  1990  no  action 


167 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

had  been  taken  (see  Direct  Foreign  Investment,  this  ch.).  This  latest 
proposal  aimed  at  combining  and  amending  all  the  investment  laws 
passed  in  the  preceding  fifteen  years  to  provide  more  incentives 
for  the  private  sector. 

Private- sector  investment  was  largely  confined  to  the  service  areas 
and  agriculture,  where  land  was  privately  owned,  although  the  state 
retained  considerable  influence  through  a  web  of  price  and  other 
controls.  At  the  end  of  the  FY  1982-86  Five-Year  Plan,  57  per- 
cent of  private  investment  was  in  housing  and  about  1 1  percent 
in  agriculture.  The  private  sector  made  some  inroads  into  the 
tourist  industry  after  the  mid-1980s,  when  privatization  was  ac- 
tively encouraged  by  the  minister  of  tourism.  As  of  1990,  private 
investment  had  not  yet  become  a  major  player  in  the  commodity- 
producing  sectors,  apart  from  agriculture.  Foreign  direct  invest- 
ment was  not  forthcoming,  and  what  little  there  was  went  mainly 
into  the  oil  industry. 

The  government's  control  of  the  economy  was  reinforced  by  var- 
ious financial  and  administrative  mechanisms.  Prominent  among 
these  were  price  controls,  setting  the  exchange  rate  of  the  Egyp- 
tian pound,  collection  of  public  revenues  and  allocation  of  expen- 
ditures, and  development  planning.  Since  1987,  reforms  loosened 
the  government's  control  over  these  areas. 

Development  Planning 

Planning  in  Egypt  remained  essentially  a  blueprint  for  invest- 
ment, and  the  balance  between  supply  and  demand  was  adjusted 
through  quasi-market  mechanisms  and  fiscal  and  monetary  poli- 
cies. The  emergence  of  Egyptian  economic  planning  could  be  traced 
to  the  creation  in  1952  of  the  Permanent  Council  for  National 
Production  (PCNP).  The  PCNP  initiated  partial  planning  by  sur- 
veying the  country's  basic  economic  resources  and  proposing  in- 
vestment projects  and  budgets.  More  comprehensive  planning 
awaited  the  formulation  of  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  (1960-65).  The 
plan  was  the  work  of  the  National  Planning  Committee,  which  ab- 
sorbed the  PCNP  and  other  planning  affiliates.  It  sought  progress 
on  all  economic  fronts,  following  what  economists  called  a  balanced 
growth  model,  which  required  heavy  investments.  It  favored  heavy 
industry,  electricity,  irrigation,  and  land  reclamation — a  persistent 
pattern  since  then. 

Achievements  were  mixed:  GDP  grew  at  a  rate  close  to  the  tar- 
get of  7  percent  per  annum,  but  other  goals  were  not  met.  The 
lack  of  macroeconomic  coordination  and  implementation  mechan- 
isms, as  well  as  the  projection  of  unrealistic  targets  are  cited  as  rea- 
sons for  this  failure.  Furthermore,  private- sector  investment,  which 


168 


The  Economy 


was  expected  to  play  a  key  role,  did  not  materialize,  especially  after 
the  wave  of  nationalization  in  the  early  1960s. 

A  number  of  subsequent  plans  were  never  implemented.  It  is 
indicative  of  the  long  hiatus  in  planning  that  the  next  plan  was  also 
called  the  First  Five-Year  Plan  (FY  1982-86).  (To  avoid  confusion, 
this  plan  is  referred  to  as  the  1980s  First  Five-Year  Plan,  and  the  ear- 
lier one  as  the  1960s  First  Five-Year  Plan).  It  was  seen  as  part  of  a 
long-term  plan  extending  to  the  year  2002.  With  this  plan,  the 
Ministry  of  Planning  began  to  assume  major  responsibility  for  the 
economic  process. 

The  plan  itself  had  the  same  thrust  as  that  of  the  1960s,  emphasiz- 
ing heavy  industry  and  electricity,  and  suffered  similar  problems. 
Apart  from  improving  the  infrastructure,  especially  in  the  metropoli- 
tan areas,  its  targets,  including  an  annual  GDP  growth  rate  of  8 
percent,  were  seldom  accomplished.  Before  its  conclusion,  Egypt 
was  feeling  the  heavy  burden  of  external  debt  (see  Debt  and  Re- 
structuring, this  ch.). 

The  latest  plan,  the  Second  Five-Year  Plan  (FY  1987-91),  prom- 
ised continuity  and  change.  The  most  prominent  investment  areas 
were  those  of  electricity  and  power,  industry,  public  utilities,  irri- 
gation, and  land  reclamation.  It  anticipated  a  GDP  growth  rate 
of  5.8  percent  per  year,  which  in  early  1990  it  was  already  failing 
to  meet.  Most  noticeably,  the  plan  envisaged  that  private- sector 
investment  would  almost  double  to  39  percent  of  the  total,  from 
23  percent  in  the  previous  plan.  The  increase  was  predicated  upon 
an  assessment  of  the  sector's  outlays  in  the  preceding  plan,  which 
showed  outlays  as  often  surpassing  targets,  and  upon  the  incen- 
tives the  government  would  offer.  The  government  specified  other 
plan  objectives,  such  as  increased  productivity,  rather  than  added 
capacity;  a  shift  to  exports  rather  than  import  substitution;  improve- 
ment of  data  gathering  by  spreading  computer  usage  and  training 
census  personnel;  and  redressing  regional  disparities  through  in- 
vestment in  new  and  previously  neglected  regions. 

Pricing  and  Subsidy 

Beginning  in  1952  the  government  initiated  a  program  of  price 
controls  that  included  both  indirect  taxation  and  subsidies.  The 
aim  was  to  reallocate  resources  to  serve  various  goals  ranging  from 
industrialization  to  social  welfare,  but  the  effects  were  mixed.  In 
agriculture,  for  example,  the  state  set  the  price  of  agricultural  in- 
puts, such  as  fertilizers  and  pesticides,  and  crops,  especially  cot- 
ton and  sugar.  Some  basic  consumer  commodities,  especially  food 
and  energy,  and  services,  such  as  education,  were  subsidized  to 
make  them  available  for  the  bulk  of  the  population.  In  industry, 


169 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


public  enterprises  paid  subsidized  rates  for  energy  but  had  to  sell 
their  products  to  consumers  at  fixed,  low  prices. 

Price  distortions  and  subsidies  were  magnified  over  time,  result- 
ing in  the  misallocation  of  resources  and  straining  the  government 
budget.  For  example,  in  1987  the  ratio  of  consumer  price  per 
kilowatt-hour  of  electricity  to  production  and  distribution  costs  was 
less  than  0.25.  This  shortfall,  coupled  with  rising  consumption, 
contributed  to  a  growing  government  deficit,  which  compelled  the 
government  to  reconsider  its  pricing  policy  (see  also  Energy; 
Manufacturing;  Agriculture,  this  ch.). 

Exchange  Rates 

In  1835  Muhammad  Ali  introduced  as  a  monetary  reform  a  bi- 
metallic currency  system.  As  a  result  of  the  decline  of  the  price 
of  silver  and  the  inflation  associated  with  it,  in  1885  the  govern- 
ment switched  to  the  gold  standard.  Subsequently,  and  up  to  1948, 
the  country's  currency  was  pegged  to  the  British  pound  sterling, 
then  the  dominant  world  currency.  In  1949  authorities  fixed  the 
Egyptian  pound  with  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary)  at  the  rate  of  £E1  =  US$2.87.  In  May  1962  a  uni- 
form premium  was  applied  to  most  foreign  exchange  transactions 
that  in  effect  made  £E1  worth  US$2.30. 

From  the  mid-1960s  onward,  many  experts  were  convinced  that 
the  Egyptian  pound  was  overvalued,  adversely  affecting  the  balance 
of  payments  by  making  exports  less  competitive  and  imports  artifi- 
cially cheaper.  Needing  foreign  currency  in  the  late  1960s,  the 
government  applied  a  premium  rate  of  £E1  =  US$1 .70,  which  be- 
came known  as  the  parallel  market,  to  a  range  of  transactions.  The 
rate  lasted  until  1975. 

After  1975  a  complex,  multiple-rate  exchange  system  emerged, 
a  manifestation  of  the  infitah  and  the  tinkering  of  Mubarak's  re- 
gime. It  continued  in  1990  to  be  a  subject  of  negotiations  between 
the  government  and  the  IMF  (see  Debt  and  Restructuring,  this 
ch).  Three  major  rates  dominated  the  system:  the  rates  of  the  Cen- 
tral Bank,  the  rates  of  the  "free"  commercial  banks,  and  the  rate 
on  the  free  market,  all  of  which  tended  to  fluctuate.  The  three  rates 
were  converted  into  a  weighted  average  to  calculate  such  entities 
as  GDP  and  GNP  in  United  States  dollars. 

The  Central  Bank  rate  had  been  fixed  at  £E1  =  US$1.43  since 
1979.  This  rate  was  used  for  oil  and  cotton  exports,  Suez  Canal 
fees,  imports  of  essential  foodstuffs  and  agrochemical  inputs,  and 
a  large  segment  of  public-sector  capital  transactions  and  bilateral 
payment  agreements.  The  arrangement  kept  the  subsidy  bill  nomi- 
nally lower  than  its  actual  costs  in  world  market  prices.  The  parallel 


170 


The  Economy 


market  rate  was  institutionalized  in  1987,  as  part  of  an  agreement 
with  the  IMF,  into  a  private  commercial  bank  rate.  About  forty 
banks  set  the  rate  on  a  daily  basis  to  reflect  the  changing  value  of 
the  currency  in  the  free  market;  hence  the  rate  was  partly  free  and 
partly  fixed.  It  covered  part  of  workers'  remittances  and  tourist 
receipts,  some  export  items,  and  certain  private-  and  public- sector 
imports  that  did  not  fall  within  the  Central  Bank  rate.  The  free- 
market  rate  covered  part  of  workers'  remittances  as  well  as  tourist 
receipts  and  some  export  receipts.  It  was  tacitly  approved  by  the 
government  but  remained  illegal.  The  presence  of  commercial  bank 
rates  and  free-market  rates  reflected  the  weakening  hold  of  the  gov- 
ernment on  the  exchange  system. 

Public  Finance 

Until  1952,  budgets  seemed  to  have  been  drafted  as  much  to 
obscure  as  to  reveal  the  country's  finances.  Muhammad  Ali  appar- 
ently felt  no  obligation  to  make  public  the  condition  of  the  trea- 
sury, and  his  private  expenses  were  not  separated  from  those  of 
the  government.  The  same  arbitrariness  was  exercised  by  his  suc- 
cessors, a  practice  that  contributed  to  ruinous  fiscal  policy.  A  rela- 
tively sound  fiscal  system  was  first  imposed  on  Egypt  in  the  1880s 
by  Europeans  whose  primary  motivation  was  to  collect  debts  (see 
Debt  and  Restructuring,  this  ch.).  Upon  the  termination  of  the 
British  protectorate  in  1922,  Egyptian  governments  once  more  be- 
gan to  manipulate  budgets  so  as  to  divert  public  funds  to  private 
pockets.  The  situation  lasted  until  the  Free  Officers  assumed  power. 

Among  the  charges  that  the  new  regime  made  against  the  monar- 
chy were  corruption  and  the  abuse  of  public  money.  Gaining  the 
confidence  of  the  population  entailed  the  sound  management  of 
public  finance.  Extensive  budget  data  have  subsequently  been  pub- 
lished, permitting  public  scrutiny. 

Until  1980  the  budgetary  procedures  involved  a  complex  account- 
ing system  with  several  budgets  and  special  funds.  Budget  formats 
took  a  long  time  to  standardize,  and  the  fiscal  year  was  altered  sever- 
al times.  In  July  1980,  budgetary  procedures  were  simplified  and 
the  fiscal  year  was  fixed  between  July  1  and  June  30,  instead  of 
the  previously  used  calendar  year. 

The  new  budget  still  contained  a  number  of  special-purpose 
funds,  such  as  subsidies  and  support  for  the  armed  forces,  which 
were  outside  the  main  budget.  Public  sector  companies  and  authori- 
ties, such  as  that  for  the  Suez  Canal,  had  their  separate  budgets, 
although  they  were  connected  to  the  state  budget  through  trans- 
fers to  and  from  the  latter.  The  primary  agencies  handling  the  bud- 
get were  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  the  National  Investment  Bank, 


171 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


founded  in  1980.  The  ministry  prepared  the  budgets  and  managed 
all  transactions,  except  new  investments,  which  were  the  respon- 
sibility of  the  investment  bank. 

The  state  budget  included  those  of  the  central  and  local  govern- 
ments. The  central  government,  however,  exercised  great  control 
over  the  budget,  as  was  apparent  from  the  preponderance  of  its 
revenues  and  expenditures  relative  to  those  of  the  local  government 
(see  table  4,  Appendix).  Examination  of  the  budget  revealed  a  num- 
ber of  characteristics  and  trends.  State  revenues  as  a  proportion 
of  GDP  tended  to  remain  steady,  staying  around  one- third.  They 
consisted  primarily  of  tax  receipts.  The  largest  revenue  items  were 
business,  consumption,  and  import  taxes  (the  latter  two  categories 
were  also  called  indirect  taxes).  Personal  and  property  taxes  were 
minuscule  by  comparison.  An  IMF  international  tax  comparison 
index  ranked  Egypt  in  1978-80  as  eleventh  among  forty-four  de- 
veloping countries  in  the  ability  to  collect  taxes. 

In  addition  to  generating  revenues,  taxes  could  be  a  vital  instru- 
ment in  redistributing  income.  The  impact  of  taxes  on  income  dis- 
tribution was  litde  studied  in  Egypt.  Income  taxes  were  progressive, 
but  because  collection  was  not  systematic,  it  was  difficult  to  judge 
their  actual  impact.  Also,  little  was  known  about  the  equity  effect 
of  indirect  taxes,  which  made  up  a  large  part  of  overall  revenues. 
These  taxes  were  usually  regressive,  but  subsidies  may  have  com- 
pensated for  some  of  the  unfavorable  impact. 

Another  aspect  of  the  revenues  was  the  instability  of  foreign  ex- 
change income.  For  example,  the  contribution  of  petroleum — the 
major  source  of  foreign  currency  in  the  state  budget  apart  from 
foreign  aid — dropped  (at  current  prices)  from  nearly  £E1.07  bil- 
lion in  1983  to  £E781  million  in  1988.  Translated  into  real  prices, 
the  drop  would  be  more  dramatic.  Revenues  from  the  import  tax 
also  were  tied  to  the  volume  of  foreign  exchange,  especially  to  that 
of  remittances.  Because  this  volume  was  not  really  known,  however, 
the  effect  of  its  fluctuations  could  not  be  meaningfully  estimated 
(see  Remittances,  this  ch.). 

Entries  for  expenditures  illustrated  the  results  of  the  steps  taken 
by  the  Mubarak  government  to  trim  spending.  Wages,  the  predomi- 
nant expenditure  item,  were  nearly  halved  as  a  percentage  of  GDP 
in  the  period  from  1979  to  1988.  While  this  was  positive  for  the 
state  budget,  it  could  also  mean  that  the  income  of  public  employees 
declined  relative  to  overall  per  capita  income.  The  subsidy  bill  also 
fell  from  the  levels  of  the  1970s  and  early  1980s.  These  two  fac- 
tors, among  others,  led  to  the  decline  of  expenditures  and  gross 
deficit  as  a  proportion  of  GDP.  Expenditures  had  risen  from 
50  percent  of  GDP  in  1979  to  70  percent  in  1983,  then  dropped 


172 


The  Economy 


to  49  percent  in  1988.  Trends  similar  to  those  for  expenditures  also 
characterized  the  budget  deficit. 

Banking,  Credit,  and  Inflation 

Like  other  economic  sectors,  banking  fell  under  government  con- 
trol during  the  Nasser  era.  Banks  were  nationalized  and  amalga- 
mated in  1963  into  four  big  commercial  banks:  the  National  Bank 
of  Egypt,  the  Bank  of  Alexandria,  Bank  Misr,  and  the  Bank  of 
Cairo.  They  were  owned  and  regulated  by  the  Central  Bank. 
Numerous  special-purpose  banks  were  also  created,  including  those 
for  industrial  and  agricultural  credit,  mortgages,  and  social  secu- 
rity funds.  They  held  about  9  percent  of  total  assets  of  the  banking 
system. 

When  Law  Number  43  (of  1974)  for  Arab  and  Foreign  Capital 
Investment  and  Free  Zones  was  extended  to  the  domestic  private 
sector,  banking  boomed  and  its  structure  was  altered.  The  num- 
ber of  banks  grew  between  1974  and  1988  from  8  to  more  than 
100.  Furthermore,  banking  absorbed  a  big  chunk  of  investment 
outlays.  In  1983,  for  example,  54  percent  of  the  £E2. 1  billion  cap- 
ital investment  went  into  banking  and  associated  financial  activi- 
ties. The  banking  sector  thrived  because  the  Central  Bank  allowed 
a  highly  profitable  mark-up  of  6  percent  over  fund  costs  of  banks, 
pushing  banking  investment  returns  to  about  70  percent,  proba- 
bly a  higher  rate  of  return  than  in  any  other  sector.  The  most  im- 
portant change  in  the  banking  structure  was  the  emergence  of  three 
types  of  establishments:  private,  joint  venture,  and,  after  1984,  Is- 
lamic investment  companies.  Nevertheless,  the  big  four  banks,  part- 
ly because  they  had  branches  throughout  the  country,  continued 
to  handle  about  60  to  70  percent  of  total  assets. 

Banks  were  highly  liquid  throughout  the  1980s.  Time  and  for- 
eign currency  deposits  increased  from  nearly  £E3.6  billion  to  nearly 
£E34  billion  between  1980  and  1988,  or  at  an  annual  rate  of  32.4 
percent  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  Part  of  the  increase  came  from 
the  revaluation  of  foreign  currency  deposits  against  the  depreciat- 
ing pound  (see  Exchange  Rates,  this  ch.).  The  largest  shares  of 
the  increase  were  those  of  time  deposits  and  foreign  currency.  It 
was  difficult  to  determine  the  savings  rate,  because  the  Central  Bank 
did  not  separate  time  deposits  from  foreign  currency.  Some  esti- 
mates showed  that  Egypt  had  a  savings  rate  of  17  percent  of  GNP, 
one  of  the  highest  in  the  world.  This  was  mostly  private  savings; 
public  savings  fell  considerably  in  the  1970s  and  1980s  because  of 
military  expenditures,  the  high  cost  of  subsidies,  and  the  growth 
of  foreign  debt. 


173 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


The  generally  good  performance  of  the  banking  sector  was  marred 
by  corruption,  embezzlement,  smuggling  of  hard  currency  abroad, 
and  a  stormy  confrontation  between  the  government  and  the  Is- 
lamic investment  companies.  In  one  case  in  1984,  a  black  marketer 
was  able,  through  bribery,  to  obtain  loans  worth  US$3  billion  and 
then  to  smuggle  the  funds  abroad.  It  was  estimated  that  in  1981 
about  54  percent  of  hard  currency  deposits  in  private  banks  were 
placed  with  overseas  branches  or  corresponding  banks.  The  govern- 
ment believed  there  were  £E40  to  £E70  billion  abroad,  which  either 
had  flowed  out  of,  or  never  flowed  into,  the  country  (see  Remit- 
tances, this  ch.). 

Islamic  investment  companies  came  into  being  in  1984  and  were 
dominated  by  four  or  five  major  enterprises.  They  grew  spectacu- 
larly and  accumulated  deposits  totaling  billions  of  dollars.  Their 
practices  differed  from  those  of  other  banks  in  that  they  offered  de- 
positors risky  open-ended  mutual  fund  certificates  instead  of  in- 
terest, which  Islamic  law  forbade  as  usury.  Initially,  they  were  able 
to  offer  depositors  returns  of  20  percent.  The  government,  and 
many  observers,  accused  them  of  being  able  to  do  so  through  black- 
market  money  trading  and  by  luring  depositors  with  "pyramid" 
schemes,  such  as  the  establishment  of  fictitious  corporations,  by 
which  dividends  were  paid  from  old  investments.  They  were  also 
charged  with  smuggling  large  sums  of  hard  currency  abroad  and 
with  defrauding  many  depositors.  The  government  issued  new  regu- 
lations in  1988  that  required  the  companies  to  reconstitute  them- 
selves as  stockholding  enterprises,  issue  share  certificates,  and  place 
deposits  under  official  scrutiny.  Whether  the  companies  would  sub- 
mit to  such  regulations  remained  unclear.  It  was  feared  that  if  they 
refused  and  liquidated  themselves  instead,  they  could  cause  havoc 
in  the  financial  market. 

The  increase  in  bank  liquidity  was  reflected  in  the  growth  of 
credit.  Banks  were  permitted  to  lend  only  60  percent  to  65  percent 
of  the  value  of  their  deposits,  except  to  the  government,  which  could 
borrow  at  will.  The  value  of  loans  grew  steadily  in  the  1980s,  in- 
creasing as  much  as  20.7  percent  per  year.  Part  of  the  increase 
resulted  from  the  depreciation  of  the  pound.  The  highest  loans  were 
consistently  to  the  government,  which  borrowed  heavily  to  finance 
its  chronic  deficit.  Government  borrowing  represented  from  40  per- 
cent to  60  percent  of  the  total.  Public  sector  enterprises,  although 
they  received  direct  funds  from  the  government  budget,  were  the 
second-largest  borrower  until  the  mid-1980s. 

After  1985  the  private  sector  replaced  the  public  sector  as  the 
second  largest  debtor  after  the  government.  By  the  second  half  of 
the  1980s,  private  borrowers  were  becoming  less  and  less  able  to 


174 


The  Economy 


honor  their  obligations.  As  a  result,  banks,  especially  some  foreign 
and  joint  venture  banks  that  were  not  allowed  to  deal  in  local  cur- 
rency, faced  a  depressed  business  atmosphere. 

Nominal  interest  rates  remained  essentially  the  same  through 
most  of  the  1980s.  They  ranged  from  5  to  13  percent  for  deposits 
and  11  to  17  percent  for  loans.  That  real  interest  rates  were  con- 
sistently negative  because  of  higher  inflation  rates  apparently  did 
not  lead  to  excessive  borrowing  by  the  public  sector.  In  spite  of 
IMF  insistence  on  raising  interest  rates,  the  government  was  reluc- 
tant to  increase  them  by  more  than  1  percent  to  2  percent,  for  fear 
of  slowing  economic  growth. 

The  increase  in  the  money  supply  probably  also  contributed  to 
the  rise  in  inflation  levels.  Total  money  supply  increased  between 
1980  and  1988  at  an  annual  rate  of  23  percent.  Major  sources  of 
this  increase  were  government  borrowing,  revaluation  of  foreign 
currency  holdings,  and  private- sector  borrowing.  Double-digit  in- 
flation marked  the  economy  in  the  1980s.  The  consumer  price  in- 
dex rose  by  336  percent  between  1980  and  1988,  or  at  an  annual 
rate  of  16  percent,  about  5  to  6  percentage  points  higher  than  the 
rate  in  the  1970s.  Since  1987,  annual  inflation  rates  have  risen 
between  20  percent  and  30  percent.  Economists  spoke  of  "stagfla- 
tion," the  combination  of  low  growth  and  high  inflation,  as  charac- 
terizing the  Egyptian  economy  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s. 

Labor 

Creating  jobs  for  a  rapidly  growing  population  has  been  one  of 
the  most  difficult  tasks  that  faced  successive  Egyptian  governments. 
After  1976  the  population  grew  at  an  annual  rate  of  2.9  percent. 
Reliable  information  on  the  occupational  structure  was  scarce,  part- 
ly because  of  the  fast  pace  at  which  this  structure  changed,  of  the 
rural-urban  migration,  and  of  the  dearth  of  in-depth  studies. 

Employment 

Official  estimates  differed  on  employment  figures.  According  to 
the  Ministry  of  Planning,  employment  in  the  formal  sector  increased 
at  the  rate  of  2.6  percent  per  year  between  1976  and  1986  (the  census 
years).  The  number  of  workers  in  agriculture  stayed  steady,  at 
around  4.2  to  4.5  million,  during  the  same  period.  Agricultural 
workers  represented  44  percent  and  37  percent  of  total  employ- 
ment at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  period,  respectively,  indicating 
a  decline  in  agriculture's  share.  The  preceding  data  may  exagger- 
ate the  participation  of  labor  in  agriculture,  which  in  the  1980s  be- 
came only  a  part-time  occupation  for  many  workers  as  employment 
patterns  in  the  countryside  began  to  resemble  those  of  some  urban 


175 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


areas.  Overall,  the  1986  census  showed  that  employment  in  rural 
areas  was  about  6.19  million,  compared  with  5.48  million  in  ur- 
ban areas. 

In  1976  and  1986,  industry  absorbed  about  13  percent  and  16 
percent,  respectively,  of  total  employment.  The  annual  growth  rate 
of  employment  in  the  sector  was  4.5  percent  over  the  same  period. 
The  number  of  people  employed  over  the  same  period  fell  substan- 
tially in  construction  and  rose  steadily  in  the  services,  which  ab- 
sorbed about  31  percent  of  the  labor  force  in  1986.  Employment 
in  trade  grew  significantly  following  the  initiation  of  Sadat's  open- 
door  policy  and  the  import  boom  after  1974,  and  leveled  off  sub- 
sequently (see  table  6,  Appendix). 

The  distribution  of  employment  also  shifted  along  gender  lines. 
Female  participation  in  the  labor  force  grew  steadily,  although  slow- 
ly. One  estimate  gave  the  female  share  of  total  employment  as  8 
percent  and  9.5  percent  in  1976  and  1988,  respectively,  representing 
a  growth  rate  of  4.1  percent  annually  (see  also  Family  and  Kin- 
ship, ch.  2). 

The  breakdown  of  public  versus  private  employment  was  difficult 
to  ascertain  because  official  statistics  did  not  distinguish  between 
the  two.  Employment  in  the  private  sector  in  1977  was  more  than 
double  (6.6  million  to  3.1  million)  that  in  the  public  sector  and 
was  concentrated  in  agriculture  and  the  services.  It  has  been  esti- 
mated that  the  increase  in  private  employment  accounted  for  more 
than  65  percent  of  overall  employment  growth  between  1973  and 
1983,  suggesting  that  the  ratio  of  private  to  public  employment 
increased.  Considering  that  both  overall  employment  and  govern- 
ment employment  stagnated  after  1983,  the  ratio  also  probably  re- 
mained unaltered  thereafter  (for  employment  of  Egyptians  abroad, 
see  Remittances,  this  ch.). 

Information  on  employment  in  the  late  1980s  in  the  informal 
sector,  which  included  small-scale  manufacturing,  handicrafts,  per- 
sonal services,  retailing,  and  other  ill-defined  activities,  was  not 
available.  Activities  of  the  sector  were  not  registered,  and  par- 
ticipants changed  their  jobs  frequently.  Most  of  those  considered 
unemployed  probably  engaged  in  one  or  another  of  these  activi- 
ties; hence,  the  size  of  the  informal  sector  was  most  likely  to  expand 
as  unemployment  increased  at  the  close  of  the  decade.  Mobility 
between  the  informal  and  the  formal  sectors  was  effectively  nonex- 
istent; those  who  joined  the  informal  sector  overwhelmingly  re- 
mained there. 

Employment  grew  at  a  slower  rate  than  did  the  population  and 
the  labor  force,  resulting  in  a  worsening  unemployment  situation. 
According  to  official  accounts,  the  rate  of  unemployment  increased 


176 


177 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

from  2.8  percent  in  the  period  from  1975  to  1977  to  about  12  per- 
cent in  1986.  The  figures  probably  understated  the  problem, 
because  other  informed  sources  put  the  rates  at  20  percent  to  25 
percent  in  1987  and  1988.  Analysts  adduced  a  multitude  of  rea- 
sons for  the  rapid  increase  in  unemployment,  including  high  popu- 
lation and  low  economic  growth  rates,  inability  of  industry  to  absorb 
larger  numbers  of  workers,  high  capital  intensity  in  new  industrial 
enterprises,  the  focus  of  the  1980s  Five- Year  Plan  on  the  infra- 
structure, and  the  return  of  Egyptians  formerly  working  abroad. 

In  addition  to  unemployment,  economists  pointed  to  underem- 
ployment, or  disguised  unemployment.  There  was  a  consensus  that 
underemployment  was  rampant  in  the  government  bureaucracy, 
because  of  overstaffing  and  low  remuneration.  In  1990  the  govern- 
ment was  considering  paying  private- sector  employers  a  two-year 
salary  for  every  new  graduate  they  hired.  It  viewed  the  measure 
as  a  means  of  checking  the  expansion  of  the  bureaucracy  and 
ameliorating  the  unemployment  problem. 

Although  Egypt  had  a  high  percentage  of  high-school  and  col- 
lege graduates,  the  country  continued  to  face  shortages  in  skilled 
labor.  Probably  35  percent  of  civil  servants  and  60  percent  of  per- 
sons in  public-sector  enterprises  were  unskilled  or  illiterate.  The 
lack  of  skilled  labor  was  blamed  on,  among  other  things,  the  cul- 
tural bias  against  manual  work,  the  theoretical  nature  of  courses 
in  most  higher  education  institutions,  and  the  emigration  of  skilled 
personnel  abroad,  where  they  received  higher  wages.  There  were 
complaints  that  the  implementation  of  development  plans  was  ham- 
pered by  the  insufficient  supply  of  skilled  labor. 

Wages 

The  wage  structure  did  not  exhibit  major  shifts,  except  perhaps 
between  private  and  public  employment.  The  real  average  wage 
per  worker  throughout  the  economy  probably  increased  from  £E257 
in  1977  to  £E  1,2 10  in  1986,  or  at  the  rate  of  18.8  percent  per  year. 
In  the  same  period,  the  consumer  price  index  rose  at  an  annual 
rate  of  about  15  percent.  Not  all  sectors,  however,  exhibited  in- 
creases similar  to  the  overall  average. 

The  highest  wages  in  1986  were  recorded  in  the  oil  industry  and 
finance  and  insurance.  Oil  industry  workers  received  4.8  times  the 
overall  average  wage,  and  workers  in  finance  and  insurance,  2.8 
times.  Agricultural  wages  remained  the  lowest,  about  42  percent 
of  the  overall  average,  similar  to  their  1977  ratio.  Unofficial  studies, 
however,  indicated  that  agricultural  workers'  wages  did  not  exceed 
20  percent  to  29  percent  of  the  overall  average.  The  industrial  and 


178 


The  Economy 


mining  wage  remained  steady  at  about  1.3  times  the  overall  aver- 
age in  1986. 

Average  annual  pay  in  the  private  sector  was  said  to  be  three 
times  that  in  the  government.  Government  employees,  who  lived 
on  fixed  incomes  and  had  been  given  the  sobriquet  "the  new  poor," 
probably  suffered  the  most  from  inflation,  in  spite  of  ad  hoc  cost- 
of-living  raises,  including  an  18  percent  increment  in  the  FY  1987 
budget  to  offset  the  impact  of  the  May  1987  austerity  program. 
The  government  had  a  limited  ability  to  raise  salaries  significantly, 
because  wages  constituted  the  largest  item  of  its  budget  (see  Pub- 
lic Finance,  this  ch.).  Civil  service  remuneration  was  based  on  a 
grade  system  that  left  little  room  for  merit  allowances.  Public- sector 
enterprises  were  given  more  leeway  with  respect  to  wage  deter- 
mination, although  most  raises  were  intended  to  compensate  for  cost- 
of-living  increments.  Workers  in  public- sector  enterprises,  especially 
in  industry,  were  unionized  and  were  able  to  bargain  collectively. 
There  was  little  unionization  among  private- sector  employees. 

Wages  alone  did  not  tell  the  whole  story  of  workers'  compensa- 
tion. The  Nasser  regime  introduced  a  set  of  fringe  benefits,  includ- 
ing pension,  health  insurance,  and  paid  holidays  that  had  been 
practically  nonexistent  before.  Their  costs  as  a  whole  in  organized 
urban  industry  amounted  to  20  percent  of  the  wages  in  FY  1969. 
No  such  estimates  were  available  for  the  1980s. 

Agriculture 

Farming  in  Egypt  was  confined  to  less  than  3  percent  of  the  total 
land  area,  because  the  country  falls  within  arid  and  hyper-arid 
zones.  About  90  percent  of  the  agricultural  area  was  concentrated 
in  the  Delta,  and  the  rest  fell  within  a  narrow  ribbon  along  the 
Nile  between  Aswan  and  Cairo  (Upper  Egypt)  and  a  strip  along 
the  Mediterranean.  The  arable  land  was  estimated  by  the  United 
Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  as  being  about  6.02 
million feddans  (1  feddan  =  1.038  acres  =  .42  hectare)  in  1987.  This 
was  the  equivalent  of  about  0.12  feddan  per  capita,  one  of  the  lowest 
in  the  world,  and  less  than  Bangladesh's  0.19.  The  warm  weather, 
plentiful  water,  and  exceptionally  fertile  soil,  however,  enabled  Egyp- 
tian farmers  to  practice  double  and  multiple  cropping,  which  effec- 
tively doubled  the  arable  area  (see  table  7,  Appendix).  Nevertheless, 
the  relative  scarcity  of  arable  land,  coupled  with,  among  other  things, 
high  population  growth,  made  Egypt  depend  on  external  sources 
for  about  half  of  its  food  supply  in  the  late  1980s. 

In  spite  of  Egypt's  dependence  on  foreign  food  supplies  and 
agriculture's  generally  poor  performance  over  the  1980s,  agriculture 


179 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

remained  a  key  sector  of  the  Egyptian  economy  and  its  future  de- 
velopment. In  1988  it  contributed  more  than  20  percent  of  GDP 
and  about  9  percent  of  exports  and  employed  more  than  4  million 
workers,  or  about  one-third  of  total  employment.  Its  significance 
would  be  even  more  pronounced  if  account  were  taken  of  the  in- 
dustries from  which  it  purchased,  such  as  fertilizers  and  machinery, 
and  those  to  which  it  sold,  such  as  food  processing  and  textiles. 

Agricultural  development  responded  to  the  ecology,  state  policy, 
technology,  and  shifts  in  the  international  political  economy.  In 
the  early  nineteenth  century  under  Muhammad  Ali,  Egypt  intro- 
duced long-staple  cotton,  which  in  1990  remained  a  prized  com- 
modity on  the  world  market,  and  initiated  the  long-term  process 
of  upgrading  the  irrigation  system.  The  ecological  conditions  of 
the  Nile  Valley  proved  eminently  suitable  for  cotton  cultivation. 
Helped  by  a  world  cotton  shortage  arising  from  the  American  Civil 
War  in  the  1860s,  Egyptian  agriculture  expanded  rapidly.  By  the 
early  1900s,  the  situation  had  changed:  additions  to  new  arable 
land  were  slow  and  increasingly  costly  as  the  quality  of  land  to  be 
added  became  poorer,  expansion  of  irrigation  was  not  coupled  with 
expanded  drainage,  and  the  intensive  cultivation  of  cotton  exhausted 
the  soil  and  reduced  its  fertility.  During  the  first  half  of  the  twen- 
tieth century,  agricultural  growth  may  have  averaged  less  than  1 
percent  a  year. 

In  addition  to  agriculture's  declining  growth  rate,  a  social  crisis 
ensued  in  the  countryside,  manifested  in  great  inequalities  and 
sporadic  peasant  rebellions.  Reforming  the  conditions  of  agricul- 
ture fell  after  1952  to  the  Free  Officers.  The  new  regime  sought 
to  carry  out  the  task  through  extensive  intervention  in  the  sector 
to  the  point  where  the  state  was  described  as  the  silent  partner; 
examination  of  state  policy  vis-a-vis  agriculture  is,  therefore,  a 
prerequisite  for  understanding  the  evolution  of  the  sector.  The  state 
implemented  land-reform  programs,  extended  and  altered  the  ir- 
rigation system,  reclaimed  new  land,  and  regulated  input  and  out- 
put prices  as  well  as  land  use.  Carrying  out  agricultural  controls 
was  entrusted  to  the  rural  cooperatives.  The  controls  continued 
and  were  modified  under  Sadat  and  were  gradually  being  relaxed 
under  Mubarak.  The  results  of  state  intervention  were  often  mixed, 
both  economically  and  socially. 

The  Food  Gap 

In  1960  Egypt  was  self-sufficient  in  almost  all  basic  food  com- 
modities, with  the  exception  of  wheat,  of  which  the  country  had 
a  self-sufficiency  ratio  (domestic  production  in  relation  to  consump- 
tion) of  70  percent.  The  self-sufficiency  ratio  declined  dramatically 


180 


Traditional  pottery  making  near  a  site  visited  by  tourists 

Courtesy  Susan  Becker 

for  most  products  during  the  1970s  and  1980s,  and  economists  be- 
gan to  speak  of  a  serious  food  gap  in  Egypt  (see  table  8,  Appen- 
dix). Food  security,  in  the  sense  of  adequate  production  and 
provision  of  food  to  consumers  at  relatively  low  prices,  also  be- 
came a  linchpin  of  agricultural  and  development  policies. 

Food  gap  data  were  difficult  to  ascertain,  especially  because 
public-sector  food  imports  often  bypassed  customs.  By  the  end  of 
the  1980s,  the  self-sufficiency  ratio  was  only  around  20  percent  for 
wheat,  lentils,  and  edible  oil.  The  major  basic  staple  for  which  Egypt 
did  not  rely  on  external  supply  sources  was  rice.  The  country  also 
produced  most  of  the  poultry  and  eggs  it  consumed.  On  the  whole, 
it  imported  more  than  one-half  of  the  food  consumed,  and  food 
imports  made  up  about  one-quarter  of  total  imports.  Meanwhile, 
agricultural  exports,  mainly  cotton,  were  declining,  and  Egypt  was 
transformed  from  a  net  agricultural  exporter  to  a  net  importer  (see 
Foreign  Trade,  this  ch.).  Most  worrisome,  both  financially  and 
politically,  was  the  wheat  gap:  wheat  was  the  basic  staple  of  the 
Egyptian  diet.  Some  of  the  external  wheat  supply  came  in  the  form 
of  aid,  especially  from  the  United  States,  which  donated  about  10 
percent  to  20  percent  of  wheat  consumed.  But  food  aid  was  not 
a  secure  source  because  of  the  volatility  of  politics,  and,  in  any  case, 
the  share  of  food  aid  dropped  as  the  country's  consumption  grew. 


181 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Moreover,  food  subsidies  to  consumers  imposed  severe  strains 
on  the  budget  deficit.  The  debt-ridden  government  faced  difficul- 
ties finding  creditors  to  finance  food  imports,  and  rising  world  food 
commodity  prices  may  have  added  as  much  as  US$600  million  to 
wheat  imports  alone  in  1989.  Food  shortages  were  reported  in  1988 
and  1989,  including  such  basic  items  as  tea,  sugar,  and  oil. 

The  drop  in  food  self-sufficiency  was  attributed,  on  the  demand 
side,  to  the  rising  demand  caused  by  high  rates  of  population 
growth,  the  rapid  rise  of  incomes  in  the  1970s,  and  subsidized  prices, 
and,  on  the  supply  side,  to  the  slow  growth  of  agricultural  yields. 
Egyptians  consumed  annually  less  than  110  kilograms  per  capita 
of  wheat  in  1960.  In  the  1980s,  the  wheat  supply  was  enough  to 
provide  175  to  200  kilograms  per  capita,  compared  with  a  world 
average  of  less  than  60  to  75  kilograms  per  capita.  Some  of  this  went 
to  chicken  and  cattle  feed  because  the  low  prices  made  it  economi- 
cal for  farmers  and  households  to  substitute  wheat  for  other  fodder. 

The  silver  lining  of  this  cloudy  picture  was  the  marked  improve- 
ment in  the  average  Egyptian  diet.  Daily  food  consumption  in- 
creased from  2,307  calories  per  capita  in  the  period  1961  to  1963, 
to  3,313  calories  per  capita  from  1984  to  1986,  and  from  62.5  grams 
per  capita  of  protein  to  8 1 . 1  grams  per  capita  over  the  same  peri- 
od. These  averages  put  the  Egyptian  diet  directly  below  that  of 
developed  countries.  But  not  all  segments  of  the  population  benefit- 
ed to  the  same  extent.  For  example,  a  sample  survey  of  6,300  ur- 
ban and  rural  families  in  1981  found  that  the  daily  per  capita  caloric 
intake  was  1,500  for  the  lowest  17  percent  and  more  than  3,500 
for  the  highest  18  percent;  the  distribution  of  protein  intake  was 
even  more  skewed.  A  1986  study  done  for  the  United  Nations  In- 
ternational Labour  Organisation  recommended  that,  to  avoid  fur- 
ther deterioration  of  the  diet  of  the  poor,  the  prices  of  basic  staples 
should  not  be  raised. 

Land  Ownership  and  Reform 

On  the  eve  of  the  1952  Revolution,  ownership  of  land  was  heavily 
concentrated  in  a  few  hands,  more  so  than  in  the  twenty  preced- 
ing years.  About  0.1  percent  of  owners  possessed  one-fifth  of  the 
land  and  0.4  percent  controlled  one- third,  in  contrast  to  the  95  per- 
cent of  small  owners  with  only  35  percent  of  the  land.  In  addition, 
44  percent  of  all  rural  inhabitants  were  landless.  Egypt  as  a  whole 
was  experiencing  political  instability,  which  was  manifested  in  the 
countryside  in  the  growing  insecurity  of  property  and  in  peasant 
resistance  and  demand  for  land.  Although  several  land  reform  bills 
were  presented  to  the  Egyptian  parliament,  for  a  variety  of  rea- 
sons none  passed. 


182 


The  Economy 


The  task  of  mending  conditions  in  the  countryside  thus  passed 
to  the  new  regime,  which  in  1952  initiated  a  phased  land  reform 
program  that  targeted  the  property  of  the  upper  class  of  landown- 
ers, dubbed  "feudalists"  by  the  government,  for  distribution.  The 
1952  land  reform  law  limited  individual  ownerships  to  200 feddans. 
The  beneficiaries  were  to  be  tenants,  estate  workers,  and  the  poorest 
villagers.  The  law  also  fixed  rents,  set  tenancy  duration  at  a  mini- 
mum of  three  years,  and  established  a  minimum  wage. 

The  1952  law  was  followed  by  others  in  1961  and  1969  that  aimed 
at  deepening  the  reform  and  further  reducing  the  maximum  size 
of  landownership.  The  ceiling  was  reduced  to  \00  feddans  in  1961 
and  to  50  in  1969.  The  land  reform  was  implemented  with  a 
reasonable  measure  of  success,  perhaps  because  its  aim  was  some- 
what modest.  More  than  700,000 feddans  were  distributed  (864,500 
feddans  according  to  official  statistics),  or  about  12  percent  to  14 
percent  of  the  cultivated  area,  and  more  than  341,000  families, 
primarily  tenants  who  presumably  were  more  skillful  at  farming 
than  other  workers,  received  land.  The  pyramid  of  landownership 
was  truncated  at  the  top  and  widened  at  the  base:  whereas  large 
holdings  were  not  entirely  eliminated,  the  share  of  those  owning 
fifty  feddans  or  more  dropped  to  15  percent,  and  95  percent  of  owners 
came  to  control  52  percent  of  the  land  instead  of  the  35  percent 
they  had  owned  before  the  reform. 

Official  accounts  indicated  that  this  general  picture  remained 
relatively  stable  in  1984,  with  a  slight  reduction  in  the  area  owned 
by  the  upper  stratum  of  those  with  fifty  or  more  feddans.  However, 
the  number  of  small  owners,  those  with  fewer  than  five  feddans, 
increased  to  nearly  3.29  million  in  1984  from  2.92  million  in  1961 , 
while  the  area  they  owned  dropped  from  3.17  million  feddans  to 
2.9  million  feddans.  This  suggested  that  land  fragmentation  wors- 
ened, as  a  result  of  the  continual  division  of  land  among  heirs  in 
accordance  with  Islamic  inheritance  laws.  Land  reform  laws  in 
Egypt  never  had  a  land  consolidation  component  as  they  did,  for 
example,  in  Jordan.  The  number  of  landless  families  also  rose  be- 
cause of  population  growth.  Students  of  agrarian  Egypt  had  not 
resolved  satisfactorily  whether  the  middle  strata,  those  who  owned 
between  eleven  and  fifty  feddans,  shrank  after  the  reform. 

Land  tenure,  however,  rather  than  landownership  reflected  how 
land  was  actually  operated  in  Egypt.  Land  was  either  operated  by 
the  owner  with  family  and/or  hired  labor,  rented  for  cash,  or 
sharecropped.  The  system  was  complex  in  that  the  same  person 
might  be  engaged  in  several  arrangements  at  the  same  time.  The 
operational  unit  was  called  the  hiyazah  (holding);  cooperatives  (see 
below)  kept  records  of  such  holdings  in  allocating  government  crop 


183 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

quotas  and  amounts  of  subsidized  inputs.  The  tendency  was  for 
the  number  of  holdings  to  be  smaller  than  that  of  ownerships,  in- 
dicating that  a  measure  of  consolidation  took  place  in  practice. 
Nevertheless,  the  average  size  of  a  holding  was  probably  less  than 
two  feddans  by  the  end  of  the  1970s;  no  figures  were  available  sub- 
sequently. 

The  rapid  changes  that  occurred  in  Egypt  after  1975  and  the 
increasing  mechanization  and  intensification  of  agriculture  led  some 
scholars  to  conclude  that  landownership  might  no  longer  be  the 
sole  instrument  of  land  control  or  wealth.  Land  leasing  and  owner- 
ship of  other  assets,  such  as  tractors,  were  also  significant  factors. 

To  implement  its  agricultural  policy,  the  government  at  the  outset 
established  agricultural  cooperatives  in  rural  areas.  Initially,  only 
land  recipients  were  obligated  to  join;  by  1962  all  farmers  were 
required  to  do  so.  The  cooperatives  performed  several  functions. 
They  consolidated  resources  through  distribution  of  inputs;  pre- 
served private  incentives,  such  as  profits;  determined  responsibility 
for  planting  government  quotas  of  particular  crops,  such  as  cotton; 
and  bought  the  government  share  of  procurement  crops  at  prices 
fixed  by  the  government.  The  cooperatives,  on  the  one  hand,  en- 
hanced agricultural  growth  by  encouraging  farmers  to  use  fertiliz- 
ers and  other  inputs  and  to  adopt  the  three-year  crop  rotation  that 
the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  considered  ecologically  superior  to  the 
traditional,  two-year  rotation  (see  Cropping  Patterns,  Production, 
and  Yield,  this  ch.).  On  the  other  hand,  the  cooperatives  came  un- 
der the  control  of  the  well-to-do  farmers.  There  was  also  evidence 
of  widespread  corruption  among  those  who  managed  cooperatives. 
Their  role  was  downgraded  under  Sadat,  and  more  prominence 
was  given  to  the  Principal  Bank  for  Development  and  Credit.  The 
role  of  the  cooperatives  diminished  further  in  the  1980s  as  the 
government  relaxed  its  controls  over  agriculture. 

Agriculture  grew  at  respectable  rates  after  the  land  reform  and 
the  universalization  of  cooperatives.  It  was  difficult,  however,  to 
tell  how  much  of  the  credit  should  go  to  these  two  factors  and  how 
much  to  investments  in  irrigation  and  other  inputs. 

Land  Reclamation  and  Loss 

The  quest  to  bring  new  land  under  cultivation  has  been  a  cor- 
nerstone of  Egyptian  agricultural  policy  since  the  1950s.  Systematic 
land  reclamation  efforts,  mostly  by  foreigners,  had  begun  in  1902 
with  the  completion  of  the  Aswan  Dam.  The  government  joined 
in  reclamation  in  the  1930s,  but  did  not  entirely  take  over  the  ac- 
tivity until  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  (1960-65).  According  to  offi- 
cial figures,  the  total  area  reclaimed  amounted  to  nearly  1 .92  million 


184 


The  Economy 


feddans  between  1952  and  1987,  of  which  0.82  million  feddans  were 
reclaimed  between  1952  and  1968.  Reclamation  activity  slowed 
from  1966  to  1976,  then  picked  up  again.  The  Second  Five-Year 
Plan  (FY  1987-91)  projected  agricultural  land  to  be  expanded  by 
627,000  feddans,  mostly  in  the  Delta  and  to  the  east  and  west  of 
it,  and  in  Sinai.  Total  reclaimable  land  by  the  year  2002  was  esti- 
mated at  2.8  million  feddans;  less  than  3  percent  of  this  was  first- 
class  land,  20  percent  was  second  class,  an  insignificant  percent 
was  third  class,  and  more  than  33  percent  was  fourth  and  fifth  class. 
Public-sector  companies  were  expected  to  reclaim  about  427,000 
feddans,  and  private  companies  the  rest.  Two  major  schemes  were 
under  way  in  early  1990:  one  west  of  the  Delta  that  was  expected 
to  yield  434,000 feddans  by  1993,  and  the  second  in  northern  Sinai 
that  would  draw  water  from  the  Nile  through  a  tunnel  under  the 
Suez  Canal. 

Bringing  new  land  under  cultivation  required  heavy  investment. 
Reclamation  outlays  in  most  years  represented  the  second  largest 
agricultural  investment  after  irrigation.  In  the  first  half  of  the 
mid-1980s,  reclamation  cost  about  £E600  million,  or  about  30  per- 
cent of  public  investments  in  agriculture,  and  the  figure  was  expec- 
ted to  rise  to  35  percent  in  the  Second  Five-Year  Plan  (FY  1987-91). 
The  cost  per  feddan  rose  continually  because  reclamation  began  with 
better  quality  soil  and  because  of  the  rising  costs  of  labor  and  energy 
required  for  pumping  the  water.  The  cost  was  estimated  to  reach 
£E2,500  to  £E5,000  per  feddan  for  projects  in  the  1990s. 

Land  reclamation  was  time-consuming  and  involved  planning, 
irrigation,  planting,  building  new  settlements,  and  establishing  agro- 
industries.  The  process  often  encountered  natural,  financial,  tech- 
nical, and  managerial  difficulties.  For  example,  because  the  soil 
was  poor,  fertilizers  leached;  building  an  adequate  soil  structure 
would  require  planting  a  crop  such  as  alfalfa  that  fixed  nitrogen. 
This  process  was  unduly  time-consuming  for  many  farmers,  who 
opted  instead  to  truck  soil  from  the  old  lands,  which  often  was  in- 
fested with  pests.  As  a  result  of  these  problems,  only  one-third  of 
the  land  reclaimed  by  1980  was  making  a  profit. 

The  difficulties  led  foreign  donors  in  the  1970s  to  question  the 
wisdom  of  the  undertaking,  and  most  of  them  refrained  from  par- 
ticipating. Egyptians,  however,  were  not  deterred  and  challenged 
the  economic  criteria  and  calculation  methods  by  which  donors 
judged  the  results.  They  also  argued  that  land  reclamation  had  ex- 
ternal benefits,  such  as  generating  employment  (the  share  of  labor 
costs  exceeded  one-half  of  the  total),  relief  of  crowded  areas,  and 
defense  (a  presence  in  the  Sinai  Peninsula)  that  simple  economic 
cost-benefit  analysis  did  not  reflect. 


185 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

The  main  beneficiaries  of  land  reclamation  in  the  1960s  were 
small  peasants;  in  the  1970s  principal  beneficiaries  were  army  per- 
sonnel, families  of  soldiers  killed  in  the  October  1973  War,  and 
graduates  of  technical  schools.  Of  more  than  1.2  million  feddans 
reclaimed  between  1952  and  1982,  small  peasants  probably  obtained 
more  than  400,000 feddans,  graduates  received  more  than  300,000 
feddans,  and  the  remainder  was  unaccounted  for.  Reclaimed  areas 
at  first  were  run  as  state  farms;  the  experiment  failed,  however, 
and  the  areas  were  given  into  private  hands.  Public  companies  acted 
as  the  management,  providing  credit  and  inputs,  determining  crop 
patterns,  and  obtaining  the  government's  crop  quotas. 

While  land  was  being  added  to  cultivation,  other  land  was  be- 
ing lost  to  desertification  and  urban  and  infrastructural  expansion. 
Desertification  was  caused  by  lack  of  drainage  and  the  concomi- 
tant soil  salinization  and  water  clogging.  Other  causes  were  sand 
movement,  intensive  cultivation,  removal  of  topsoil  in  the  Delta 
for  brick  making,  and  lack  of  effective  conservation  measures  (see 
Technology,  this  ch.).  Information  on  soil  degradation  and  deser- 
tification was  sketchy.  One  estimate  put  the  decrease  of  cropland 
at  6.6  percent  annually  between  1964  and  1985;  another  estimat- 
ed the  annual  decrease  at  8  percent.  Of  the  reclaimed  areas,  about 
40  percent  probably  reverted  to  desert  conditions.  In  addition,  other 
areas  were  probably  losing  soil  nutrients  because  of  the  decreased 
use  of  organic  fertilizers,  the  lack  of  annual  alluvial  deposits  fol- 
lowing the  construction  of  the  Aswan  High  Dam,  and  inadequate 
compensation  for  nutrients  removed  from  the  soil  by  intensive  cul- 
tivation. 

Pricing  Policy 

World  War  II  led  to  shortages  of  food  supplies  as  a  result  of  in- 
creased demand  by  Allied  troops.  The  government  enforced  a  system 
of  grain  deliveries,  a  measure  that  was  tantamount  to  nationaliz- 
ing the  grain  trade.  It  also  compelled  farmers  to  increase  the  areas 
devoted  to  grains,  and  it  subsidized  fertilizers  to  appease  small  farm- 
ers. The  revolutionary  regime  both  deepened  and  broadened  these 
policy  measures  in  accordance  with  its  objective  of  industrializing 
the  country.  The  new  policy  sought  to  extract  a  surplus  from  agricul- 
ture to  finance  industry,  an  approach  that  was  then  favored  by 
economists  in  both  East  and  West,  and  to  ensure  food  supply  at 
relatively  low  prices  to  keep  industrial  wages  down. 

Specifically,  the  policy  involved  the  allotment  of  areas  for  par- 
ticular crops,  compulsory  sales  by  farmers  to  the  government  of 
a  fraction  of  the  output  at  fixed  prices,  and,  at  the  same  time,  a  sub- 
sidy on  agricultural  inputs  and  on  basic  food  staples  for  consumers. 


186 


The  Economy 


Farmers  referred  to  controlled  crops  as  "government  crops."  The 
policy  varied  by  crop  type  and  over  time  to  serve  changing  eco- 
nomic, political,  and  social  objectives.  The  level  of  control  over 
crops  ranged  from  total  control,  at  least  in  theory,  to  total  absence 
of  control.  The  pricing  system  directly  affected  the  area  and  out- 
put of  controlled  crops,  including  cotton,  clover,  rice,  wheat,  and 
sugarcane.  Indirectly,  however,  pricing  had  a  chain  reaction  on 
all  crops. 

The  impact  of  the  pricing  system  was  difficult  to  evaluate  be- 
cause of  the  multiplicity  of  other  factors — such  as  the  ecology,  crop 
rotation,  land  distribution,  wages,  and  trade  and  other  macroeco- 
nomic  policies — that  shaped  agricultural  operations.  A  1989  study 
by  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  concluded  that  there  was  virtu- 
ally no  connection  between  subsidized  consumer  prices  and 
producer  prices — prices  paid  to  farmers;  output  was  affected  by 
the  latter  but  not  by  the  former. 

The  relative  impact  on  the  various  strata  of  the  population  and 
on  rural  as  opposed  to  urban  dwellers  changed  over  time.  In  the 
1960s,  policies  were  generally  biased  toward  urban  consumers:  the 
low  prices  for  their  staples  were  made  possible  by  the  low  prices 
that  were  paid  to  farmers.  In  other  words,  the  countryside,  not 
the  government,  subsidized  the  city.  After  1974  the  government, 
wishing  to  keep  the  social  peace  and  not  jeopardize  the  newly 
promulgated  infitah,  raised  producer  prices  and  input  subsidies  to 
disgruntled  farmers  and  simultaneously  underwrote  the  bill  for  the 
consumer  price  subsidy.  Overall,  the  pricing  policy  seemed  to  have 
removed  the  bias  against  the  rural  regions. 

In  the  1980s,  the  government  gradually  dismantled  procurement 
quotas  for  practically  all  crops.  The  two  major  exceptions  were  cot- 
ton and  rice.  The  government  still  bought  all  cotton  and  one-half 
of  the  rice  output  as  it  did  in  the  1960s.  Cotton  remained  on  the 
quota  system  because  it  was  an  important  source  of  foreign  cur- 
rency; the  reason  for  rice  exemption  was  less  clear.  Furthermore, 
by  the  end  of  the  1980s,  the  state  offered  prices  for  wheat  higher 
than  world  market  prices  to  encourage  expansion  of  the  wheat  area. 
On  the  distribution  side,  the  government  gradually  raised  the  prices 
of  all  subsidized  food  items,  including  sugar,  rice,  and  cooking  oil, 
and  exempted  wheat  only.  The  policy  changes  in  the  1980s  proba- 
bly favored  rural  over  urban  areas. 

Within  the  countryside  itself,  the  impact  probably  differed  ac- 
cording to  farm  size,  because  of  cropping  pattern  differences.  Data 
on  the  topic  were  extremely  sketchy  and  contradictory.  It  would 
seem  that  the  upper  stratum  owning  more  than  ten  feddans  was 
affected  proportionally  less  than  the  lowest  segment — those  owning 


187 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

less  than  one  feddan — because  its  members  were  able  to  grow  more 
of  the  uncontrolled  crops,  such  as  fruit  trees,  and  to  bend  the  rules 
more.  The  raising  of  food  prices  probably  had  a  more  adverse  im- 
pact on  the  poorer  segments  of  the  population,  irrespective  of  where 
they  lived,  because  they  spent  larger  proportions  of  their  incomes 
on  food. 

Cropping  Patterns,  Production,  and  Yield 

Egyptian  farmers  grew  a  rich  variety  of  crops,  including  grains, 
cotton,  barsim  (clover),  legumes,  fruits,  and  vegetables,  thanks  to 
the  warm  climate,  plentiful  water  along  the  Nile,  and  exceptional- 
ly fertile  soil.  The  country  essentially  has  two  seasons,  summer  and 
winter;  spring  and  fall  are  quite  short.  The  climatic  differences 
between  north  and  south  have  some  impact  on  the  geographical 
distribution  of  crops.  For  example,  humidity  in  the  Delta  suits  long- 
staple  cotton.  The  drier,  hotter  climate  of  the  south  favors  the  plant- 
ing of  sugarcane,  onions,  and  lentils.  Variations  in  climate  are  not 
great,  however,  and  major  crops  were  grown  in  most  of  the  cli- 
matic zones. 

The  single  most  important  change  in  the  cropping  pattern  in 
Egypt's  modern  history  was  the  introduction  of  cotton  during  the 
reign  of  Muhammad  Ali,  because  it  led  to  the  transformation  of 
irrigation  methods.  Cotton  requires  a  good  deal  of  water  in  sum- 
mer when  the  Nile  water  is  low,  and  it  must  be  harvested  before 
the  flood  season.  This  necessitated  the  regulation  of  the  Nile  flow 
and  brought  about  a  shift  from  basin  (flood)  to  perennial  (rough- 
ly, on  demand)  irrigation  (see  Technology,  this  ch.). 

Perennial  irrigation  not  only  made  cotton  growing  possible,  it 
also  permitted  double  and  even  triple  cropping  on  most  of  the  ara- 
ble land.  Furthermore,  it  enabled  farmers  to  switch  the  crop  rota- 
tion from  a  three-  to  a  two-year  cycle.  The  original  three-year  cycle 
included  clover  and  cotton  in  the  first  year,  beans  and  fallow  in 
the  second,  and  wheat  or  barley  and  corn  in  the  third.  The  two- 
year  rotation  consisted  of  clover  or  fallow  followed  by  cotton,  and 
the  second  year,  crops  of  wheat  or  barley  and  beans  followed  by 
clover  and  corn.  By  1890  about  40  percent  of  the  land  was  put  on 
a  two-year  rotation.  The  biennial  rotation  was  believed  to  be  harsh 
on  the  land,  and  the  government  tried  to  eliminate  it  under  Nas- 
ser; farmers  resorted  to  both  rotations  flexibly. 

Crop  areas  were  regulated  by  the  government  according  to 
manifold  economic,  technical,  and  social  criteria.  Comprehensive 
land  use  planning  began  only  in  1966,  and  requirements  were 
relaxed  in  1974.  But  farmers  responded  to  other  imperatives  as  well, 
and  the  area  occupied  by  various  crops  changed  over  time. 


188 


The  Economy 


The  major  shift  since  1952  was  the  significant  reduction  of  the 
cotton  area  and  the  parallel  increase  in  that  of  clover,  horticulture, 
and  rice.  Originally,  the  government  put  a  maximum  limit  on  the 
cotton  area  to  avoid  excess  production  and  lower  prices  on  the  world 
market;  the  Egyptian  supply  of  long- staple  cotton  affected  world 
prices  because  of  its  large  share.  As  the  cotton  area  shrank,  however, 
the  government  began  to  set  minimum  limits,  because  cotton  was 
needed  in  order  to  obtain  foreign  exchange.  Cheap  cotton  has  rep- 
resented an  important  source  of  foreign  currency  for  the  govern- 
ment and  has  enabled  it  to  subsidize  consumer  clothing.  At  the 
same  time,  cotton  became  less  profitable  for  the  farmer  than  other, 
noncontrolled  crops.  The  cotton  area  was  almost  halved  between 
1952  and  1987,  thanks  to  the  government  policy  requiring  farm- 
ers to  sell  all  their  cotton  output  to  the  government  at  fixed  prices 
that  were  kept  below  world  market  prices.  Cotton  profitability  was 
further  reduced  in  the  late  1970s  and  the  1980s  by  rising  wages, 
because  cotton  is  one  of  the  most  labor  intensive  major  crops. 

Cotton  output  also  declined,  but  not  in  the  same  proportion  as 
the  decline  in  land  area,  because  of  the  rise  in  yields.  Yields  in- 
creased over  the  long  term,  although  they  fluctuated  annually.  Over- 
all, they  increased  by  about  50  percent  between  1952  and  1980  but 
stagnated  or  actually  declined  in  the  1980s.  The  continuous  breeding 
of  new  varieties  and  the  pest-control  program  organized  by  the 
government  helped  increase  the  yield.  The  reduced  labor  input  in 
the  1980s,  however,  may  have  caused  yields  to  level  off  or  drop. 

Clover  occupied  by  far  the  largest  area  of  all  crops,  increasing 
by  about  500,000  feddans  between  1952  and  1987  and  comprising 
about  one-quarter  of  the  cropped  area  in  the  latter  year.  The  govern- 
ment policy  vis-a-vis  clover  was  diametrically  opposite  to  its  cot- 
ton policy.  Clover  was  used  as  animal  feed,  and  the  government 
protected  both  the  crop  and  meat  by  tariffs.  This  protection  made 
clover  a  lucrative  crop  for  many  farmers,  especially  as  demand  for 
livestock  grew  during  the  oil  boom.  Farmers,  especially  small  farm- 
ers, also  had  to  grow  sufficient  amounts  of  clover  to  feed  their  draft 
animals.  On  the  one  hand,  the  expansion  of  animal-displacing 
mechanization  could  lead  to  a  reduction  of  the  clover  area  in  the 
future.  Such  an  outcome  would  leave  more  room  for  basic  staples, 
especially  wheat.  On  the  other  hand,  clover  fixes  soil  nitrogen,  and 
a  serious  reduction  in  its  area  could  have  an  adverse  impact  on 
soil  fertility.  Clover  production  increased  mainly  because  of  the 
expansion  of  the  land  area;  little  plant  breeding  was  undertaken,  and 
yields  remained  relatively  stable.  The  slight  increase  may  have  been 
caused  by  the  additional  labor  time,  water,  and  fertilizers  allocated 


189 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  crop  and  by  the  farmers'  delay  in  planting  cotton,  which 
followed  clover,  so  as  to  allow  an  extra  cutting  of  clover. 

The  wheat  area  remained  relatively  stable.  The  stability  may 
be  explained  by  the  fact  that  although  the  crop  was  partially  con- 
trolled, the  government  procurement  price  was  kept  close  to  the 
domestic  free  market  price.  Wheat  was  also  the  basic  staple;  small 
and  medium- size  farmers  retained  large  proportions  of  it  for  sub- 
sistence or  animal  feed.  The  straw  also  served  as  animal  forage 
in  the  summer.  Wheat  production  increased  over  the  long  run,  be- 
cause of  rising  yields.  Yields  rose  steadily,  especially  between  1980 
and  1987;  the  annual  growth  rate  increased  from  5  to  6  percent 
in  the  period  from  1980  to  1987.  The  diffusion  of  high-yielding  vari- 
eties (HYVs)  encountered  many  problems,  however,  including  sus- 
ceptibility of  the  bred  varieties  to  rust  and  the  shortness  of  their 
straw-producing  stem.  Despite  these  difficulties,  the  diffusion  of 
HYVs  expanded  steadily  in  the  1980s.  The  area  of  HYVs  increased 
from  about  1,300  feddans  in  1978  to  more  than  128,000  feddans  in 
1983. 

The  area  planted  with  corn,  which  was  introduced  in  Egypt  in 
the  nineteenth  century,  remained  relatively  stable.  Corn  was  con- 
sumed by  both  humans  and  animals.  It  was  not  a  controlled  crop; 
the  government,  moreover,  subsidized  yellow  corn  until  1987  when 
it  raised  the  price  considerably,  effectively  cutting  the  subsidy.  The 
rise  in  production  occurred  as  a  result  of  the  increase  in  yields. 
The  yields  rose  by  about  40  percent  after  the  completion  of  the 
Aswan  High  Dam  in  1964.  Perennial  irrigation  enabled  farmers 
to  plant  corn  during  May  or  June  instead  of  July  or  August.  The 
new  timing  afforded  the  crop  cooler  temperatures  and  escape  from 
the  summer  corn  borer.  Yields  were  also  bolstered  by  the  applica- 
tion of  more  water  and  fertilizers.  Plant  breeding  played  virtually 
no  role  in  yield  increases  until  the  1980s,  but  HYVs  probably  ac- 
counted for  most  of  the  increase  in  yields  in  the  1980s. 

Rice,  grown  in  Egypt  for  1 ,400  years,  saw  its  area  expand  sharp- 
ly by  about  500,000  feddans  promptly  after  the  Aswan  High  Dam 
was  built  and  has  hovered  around  1  million  feddans  since  then.  Rice 
was  an  important  staple,  and  about  one-third  of  it  was  probably 
consumed  by  small  farm  households.  It  was  a  partially  controlled 
crop;  the  government  procured  one-half  of  the  output  and  subsi- 
dized it  to  consumers,  but  procurement  prices  were  close  to  the 
domestic  free  market  price.  The  consumer  subsidy  was  lowered 
after  1987.  Production  increased  in  proportion  to  yields.  Yields  ex- 
hibited a  steady  upward  movement  as  water  became  more  availa- 
ble and  fertilizer  use  increased.  Yield  increase  was  also  achieved 
by  the  breeding  and  diffusion  of  new  varieties.  An  early  maturing 


190 


Sprinkler  irrigation  used  on  large  farms  and  newly  reclaimed  areas 
Greenhouse  growing  pyrethrum,  used for  making  insecticides,  in  As  Salihiyah 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt,  Washington 


191 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

variety  derived  from  Japanese  rice  was  diffused  through  about  25 
percent  of  the  area  in  1984,  compared  with  2  percent  two  years 
previously.  New  varieties  were  being  developed  by  the  end  of  the 
decade. 

One  of  the  most  significant  shifts  in  land  use  was  the  expansion 
of  the  horticultural  area.  Egyptian  farmers  cultivated  a  wide  array 
of  fruits  and  vegetables,  including  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  potatoes, 
lettuce,  onions,  citrus,  and  mangoes.  Vegetables  were  planted  on 
more  than  1  million  feddans  by  1980,  and  the  area  has  stabilized 
since  then.  The  most  prevalent  crops  were  tomatoes  and  melons, 
which  in  1987  occupied  more  than  400,000  and  1 25,000  feddans, 
respectively.  Vegetables  were  not  a  controlled  crop,  and  demand 
for  them  grew  rapidly  during  the  oil  boom.  Domestic  demand 
leveled  off  subsequently,  and  no  significant  export  outiets  had  been 
found  by  1990.  Further  expansion  would  probably  depend  on  es- 
tablishing such  markets,  not  a  simple  task  considering  the  stiff 
regional  competition.  Yields  rose,  but  it  was  difficult  to  determine 
the  sources  of  overall  growth;  the  combination  of  more  water  and 
fertilizers  would  be  a  factor. 

The  area  planted  with  fruits  also  expanded  steadily  and  reached 
about  616,000  feddans  in  1987.  Fruits,  like  vegetables,  were  not  a 
controlled  crop,  and  demand  rose  with  the  rise  in  incomes  after 
1974.  Citrus  fruits  and  grapes,  the  two  dominant  crops,  were  plant- 
ed on  more  than  200,000  and  110,000 feddans,  respectively.  Over- 
all, agricultural  crop  production  increased  at  annual  rates  of  2.6 
percent  between  1964  and  1970  and  3.5  percent  between  1970  and 
1980,  but  it  stagnated  in  the  1980s.  Yields  were  relatively  high  by 
the  standards  of  developing  countries.  Rice  yields,  for  example, 
were  higher  than  those  of  Asian  countries  using  modern,  capital- 
intensive  farming  systems,  save  for  that  of  the  Japanese.  Wheat 
and  cotton  yields  were  among  the  highest  in  the  world.  Agronomists, 
however,  believed  that  these  yields  could  be  considerably  enhanced, 
given  better  cultivation  practices,  management,  and  pricing  policies. 

Cropping  patterns  and  crop  yields  differed  according  to  farm 
size.  The  Egyptian  farmer  grew  a  variety  of  crops;  there  was  little 
single  cropping  in  Egypt  as  there  was,  for  example,  in  the  United 
States  or  in  Asia.  It  is  difficult  to  describe  farming  patterns  in  more 
detail,  however,  because  the  scarce  information  available  is  incon- 
clusive and  sometimes  contradictory.  A  survey  of  three  Delta  vil- 
lages in  1984  found  that  farmers  who  cultivated  one  feddan  or  less 
were  more  likely  to  grow  cotton  than  those  with  holdings  greater 
than  ten  feddans,  a  conclusion  that  contradicted  findings  of  an  earlier 
study.  It  also  revealed  that  yield  levels  of  different- sized  farms  varied 
by  crop.  For  instance,  wheat  yields  were  higher  on  small  farms, 


192 


The  Economy 


while  the  opposite  was  true  for  rice.  The  reasons  were  not  clear, 
and  the  findings  contradicted  a  large  body  of  evidence  from  other 
countries  that  showed  yields  were  invariably  greater  on  small  farms. 
There  was  agreement,  however,  that  larger  farms  produced  propor- 
tionally more  fruit  crops,  probably  because  the  high  capital  invest- 
ment and  the  long-term  commitment  required  would  be  prohibitive 
to  small  farmers,  who  needed  more  flexibility. 

In  addition  to  crops,  Egypt  had  a  relatively  significant  stock  of 
animals  that  yielded  meat,  milk,  and  power.  The  country  had  vir- 
tually no  permanent  pastureland,  and  animals  were  fed  clover,  corn, 
barley,  and  wheat,  competing  with  humans  for  the  scarce  land 
resources.  Livestock  populations  grew  slowly,  although  steadily, 
after  1952  and  stabilized  or  even  declined  in  some  years  during 
the  1980s.  The  growth  before  the  1980s  was  stimulated  by  a  100- 
percent  meat  protection  rate,  rising  demand,  and  cheap  credit  to 
farmers.  The  stagnation  in  the  1980s  possibly  reflected  the  limited 
availability  of  feed,  as  is  further  indicated  in  increasing  yellow  corn 
imports,  probably  in  response  to  the  demand  for  feed.  The  num- 
ber of  water  buffalo,  the  primary  source  of  milk  on  farms  and  of 
draft  power  before  mechanization,  almost  doubled  to  2.5  million 
between  1952  and  1978.  The  number  declined  slightly  in  succeed- 
ing years,  then  climbed  again  to  the  1978  level  in  1986.  The  cattle 
stock  stood  at  about  1.8  million  in  the  1980s.  The  numbers  of  both 
sheep  and  camels  continued  a  downward  trend.  The  number  of 
sheep  fell  from  close  to  2  million  in  1937  to  fewer  than  1.2  million 
in  1986,  and  the  number  of  camels  dropped  from  200,000  in  1947 
to  68,000  in  1986.  The  increasing  availability  of  vehicles  was  prob- 
ably an  important  factor  in  the  decline  of  camel  herds,  as  the  beasts 
were  used  for  transport.  The  number  of  pigs  remained  stable  at 
15,000;  only  Egyptian  Coptic  Christians  and  Christian  foreigners 
ate  pork.  Poultry  became  an  important  industry  in  the  mid-1970s; 
the  number  of  chickens  approached  30  million  in  1986,  and  the 
number  of  eggs  approached  4  million. 

Technology 

Egyptian  agriculture  was  transformed  over  the  last  century  in 
large  measure  as  a  result  of  technological  change.  Technological 
changes  included  the  switch  from  basin  to  perennial  irrigation, 
mechanization,  application  of  pesticides  and  chemical  fertilizers, 
breeding  new  seed  varieties,  and,  in  the  1980s,  the  beginning  of 
the  use  of  drip  irrigation  and  plastic  greenhouses. 

At  the  core  of  these  changes  lay  the  shift  from  basin  to  perennial 
irrigation.  Basin  irrigation  depended  on  the  annual  Nile  flooding, 
usually  in  August  and  September.  The  floodwaters  soaked  the 


193 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


low-lying  land,  providing  moisture  for  a  single  crop  after  they  reced- 
ed. The  silt  borne  by  the  river  renewed  and  enriched  the  soil.  The 
area  irrigated  by  the  river's  high  waters  was  extended  with  canals 
and  dikes. 

Perennial  irrigation  was  more  complex  but  more  rewarding.  It 
regulated  the  Nile  flow  through  the  building  of  canals,  barrages, 
dams,  and  reservoirs,  which  made  irrigation  water  available  through- 
out the  year,  not  just  at  flood  time.  In  1990  practically  all  of  Egypt's 
cropped  land  was  under  perennial  irrigation.  Muhammad  Ali  was 
the  first  to  conceive  of  perennial  irrigation  as  a  way  of  increasing 
cotton  production.  He  initiated  barrage  construction  at  the  head 
of  the  Delta,  but  the  barrages  were  not  completed  until  the  1860s. 
Meanwhile,  temporary  canals  deeper  than  the  Nile  were  built,  and 
water  was  lifted  by  pumps.  The  British  expanded  the  system  after 
their  occupation  of  Egypt  in  1882.  Under  their  auspices,  the  Asyut 
barrages  and  the  Aswan  Dam  were  completed  in  1902.  Perennial 
irrigation  enabled  Egyptian  farmers  to  double  and  even  triple  crop 
the  land.  It  also  allowed  them  to  add  biennial  crop  rotation  to  the 
traditional  triennial  rotation. 

Except  for  a  few  additions,  the  system  remained  unchanged  until 
the  Aswan  High  Dam  was  built  in  1964  during  Nasser's  presidency. 
The  dam  created  Lake  Nasser,  which  extends  about  480  kilome- 
ters south  behind  it,  cost  about  £E850  million,  and  represented  ap- 
proximately one-third  of  Egypt's  gross  capital  formation  in  the 
mid-1960s.  This  control  of  the  Nile  waters  made  possible  the  recla- 
mation of  about  650,000  feddans  and  brought  about  880,000  fed- 
dans  under  perennial  irrigation,  in  addition  to  generating  a 
considerable  portion  of  Egypt's  electrical  power  (see  Energy,  this 
ch.).  It  effected  a  shift  in  the  cropping  pattern,  particularly  in  the 
cases  of  rice  and  corn.  By  making  water  more  available,  the  sys- 
tem encouraged  investment  in  other  inputs  and  augmented  crop 
yields.  Many  Egyptians  were  glad  to  have  the  dam  during  the 
prolonged  drought  that  struck  the  areas  where  most  of  the  Nile 
originates  in  the  early  1980s  and  lasted  until  1988. 

The  Aswan  High  Dam  turned  out  to  be  not  just  an  irrigation 
project  but  also  a  political  project;  it  became  a  symbol  of  Egyptian 
nationalism  and  of  Nasser's  era,  as  well  as  a  legacy  of  the  Cold 
War.  The  edifice  was  built  with  help  from  the  Soviet  Union  after 
the  United  States  and  Britain,  in  protest  against  the  arms  agree- 
ment that  Nasser  struck  with  Czechoslovakia  in  late  1958,  rescinded 
an  earlier  assistance  agreement.  In  response,  Nasser  nationalized 
the  Suez  Canal  and  said  the  revenues  from  the  canal  would  be  used 
to  finance  the  dam.  Because  of  the  political  tensions  surrounding 
the  building  of  the  Aswan  High  Dam  and  its  irrigation  system, 


194 


The  Economy 


subsequent  criticism  of  the  project  has  sometimes  mixed  political 
considerations  with  technical  assessment. 

The  structure  was  not  without  difficulties.  Some  problems  in- 
volved miscalculations,  such  as  the  underestimation  of  evaporation 
levels  from  the  lake.  Other  problems  were  probably  unanticipat- 
ed, such  as  the  impact  the  absence  of  silt  in  the  canals  would  have. 
Under  basin  irrigation,  the  annual  flood  deposited  large  quanti- 
ties of  silt  that  revitalized  the  soil.  The  shift  to  perennial  irrigation 
kept  the  silt  in  the  canals,  but  because  they  were  cleared  regular- 
ly, the  silt  was  added  to  the  soil.  After  the  dam  was  built,  the  silt 
was  deposited  in  the  lake  behind  it.  The  seriousness  of  the  impact 
on  the  soil  and  the  reasons  for  it  remained  controversial.  Another 
unforeseen  consequence  of  deposit  retention  in  Lake  Nasser  was 
the  use  of  topsoil  from  the  Nile  Valley  to  make  bricks  for  construc- 
tion; formerly  these  had  been  made  of  silt  deposits.  In  addition, 
the  dam's  construction  led  to  the  relocation  of  the  Nubians,  an  oper- 
ation whose  social  and  economic  costs  were  not  easy  to  estimate. 

Whereas  the  government  invested  heavily  in  irrigation  in  the 
1960s,  it  neglected  irrigation's  mirror  image,  drainage.  The  failure 
to  invest  in  drainage  was  believed  to  have  caused  tremendous  water 
clogging  and  soil  salinization  problems  that  reduced  soil  fertility 
and  led  to  loss  of  arable  land.  More  than  70  percent  of  the  land 
was  believed  to  be  affected  by  these  problems.  Since  1974,  however, 
the  government  with  international  assistance  has  earmarked  con- 
siderable funds  toward  drainage  in  both  the  Delta  and  Upper  Egypt. 
A  major  tile  drainage  scheme  was  under  way  in  1990  in  coopera- 
tion with  the  World  Bank.  In  the  1980s  First  Five- Year  Plan,  tile 
drainage  covered  1.5  million  feddans,  in  addition  to  0.65  million 
feddans  already  tiled  by  1983.  General  drainage  covered  about  1.7 
mHiion  feddans  by  the  end  of  the  plan's  period.  In  other  words,  from 
50  to  60  percent  of  the  arable  land  has  been  provided  with  drainage 
facilities.  The  Second  Five- Year  Plan  (FY  1987-91)  allocated  about 
£E1.5  billion  for  irrigation  and  drainage  (see  table  9,  Appendix), 
but  the  allocation  of  funds  between  the  two  was  not  specified. 

Although  agricultural  mechanization  accelerated  in  the  1980s, 
it  remained  limited.  The  main  agricultural  tasks  to  undergo  mech- 
anization were  plowing,  threshing,  and  water-pumping.  Planting, 
transplanting,  weeding,  and  harvesting  were  still  performed  manu- 
ally. Most  tractors  were  privately  owned.  Large  owners,  who 
benefited  from  economies  of  scale,  were  more  likely  to  own  trac- 
tors. There  was  a  widespread  private  rental  market,  however,  and 
mechanical  plowing  was  practically  universal.  The  number  of  water 
pumps,  which  were  introduced  in  the  1930s,  grew  rapidly;  as  in 
the  case  of  tractors,  they  were  concentrated  in  the  hands  of  larger 


195 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


owners.  The  traditional  saqiyah,  the  waterwheel  drawn  by  water 
buffalo,  did  not  disappear,  and  small  farmers  still  found  its  use  eco- 
nomical. A  survey  of  three  Delta  villages  in  1984  found  that  more 
than  60  percent  of  the  less-than-one-/^a«  farms  adopted  pumps. 
The  ratio  increased  with  increased  farm  size,  and  virtually  all  farms 
above  five  feddans  used  pumps.  Similar  trends  were  found  in  pest 
control.  Mechanical  threshing  was  also  becoming  universal  by  the 
early  1980s.  The  government  was  trying  to  persuade  farmers  to 
adopt  mechanical  rice  transplanting  by  demonstrating  its  effective- 
ness. Overall,  however,  mechanization  remained  confined  to  tasks 
that  were  mechanized  before  the  1980s  and  was  not  being  adopted 
for  new  tasks. 

Both  the  government  and  international  donors  encouraged 
mechanization  through  subsidized  credit,  assuming  that  the  labor 
market  was  getting  tighter  and  that  mechanization  would  enhance 
crop  yields.  There  was  no  doubt  that  subsidized  fuel  prices  helped 
spread  mechanization  by  reducing  its  costs.  In  the  early  1980s,  the 
labor  market  was  tightening,  and  labor  costs  were  rising  as  a  propor- 
tion of  total  costs,  from  25  to  33  percent  in  the  early  1970s  to  be- 
tween 40  and  60  percent  in  the  early  1980s  for  major  crops.  The 
rise  in  labor  costs  resulted  from  emigration,  alternative  job  oppor- 
tunities in  rural  areas,  and  higher  educational  levels.  But  labor  was 
not  scarce  everywhere,  as  was  indicated  by  the  persistence  of 
seasonal  labor.  Some  economists  in  the  late  1980s  questioned  the 
wisdom  of  pushing  the  labor-displacing  mechanization  process  in 
light  of  the  rise  in  unemployment,  the  narrowing  possibilities  of 
emigration,  and  the  inability  of  other  sectors  to  create  needed  em- 
ployment opportunities  (see  Employment,  this  ch.).  They  pointed 
out  that  the  assumption  that  mechanization  augmented  yields  was 
not  supported  by  investigations  in  Egypt  or  by  other  studies. 

As  part  of  its  reform  program,  the  government  wanted  to  in- 
crease the  use  of  fertilizers  and  pesticides.  To  do  so,  it  controlled 
the  distribution  of  fertilizers  through  the  cooperatives  and  speci- 
fied the  amounts  allocated  by  region  and  crop.  Farmers  received 
their  rations  from  the  cooperatives  on  credit  and  were  obliged  to 
buy  the  minimum  amount  set  by  the  government.  Subsidies  on 
the  prices  for  inputs  increased  in  the  1970s,  and  prices  for  these 
items  declined  in  real  terms  over  time.  The  cost  of  inputs,  includ- 
ing pesticides  and  seeds,  fell  from  an  average  of  25  to  33  percent 
in  1972  to  around  15  percent  for  major  crops  in  1984.  As  a  result, 
fertilizer  application  increased,  growing  steadily  from  about  940,000 
tons  in  1960  to  3.7  million  tons  in  1978  and  to  6.3  million  tons 
in  1986.  In  1986  fertilizer  application  stood  at  roughly  0.5  ton  per 
feddan  of  cropped  area.  Consumption  grew  sufficiently  to  support 


196 


The  Economy 


the  domestic  fertilizer  industry,  and  domestic  production  supplied 
a  considerable  share  of  nitrogen  fertilizers,  which  were  the  primary 
type  in  use. 

Egyptian  agriculture  was  susceptible  to  pests,  thanks  to  the  year- 
round  cultivation  and  water  cover.  The  government  assumed 
responsibility  for  the  task  of  controlling  these  pests  and  sought  to 
develop  pest-resistant  varieties  of  many  crops.  The  cotton  crop  was 
the  main  consumer  of  pesticides,  and  the  government  did  the  spray- 
ing. In  the  latter  half  of  the  1980s,  the  government  increasingly 
used  aerial  spraying. 

In  the  1980s  Egyptian  farmers  began  to  use  drip  irrigation  and 
plastic  greenhouses,  which  had  been  spreading  in  other  Arab  coun- 
tries since  the  mid-1970s.  The  extent  of  their  use  was  minuscule 
by  1990;  about  3,000  greenhouses  were  installed  in  reclaimed  areas. 
Although  they  could  potentially  transform  Egyptian  agriculture, 
the  technologies  were  highly  capital-intensive,  especially  for  the 
greenhouses  that  were  often  combined  with  drip  irrigation.  The 
government  in  1990  wanted  the  greenhouses  used  only  in  the 
reclaimed  areas  to  conserve  the  old  land  for  wheat  and  other  staples. 

Energy,  Mining,  and  Manufacturing 

The  industrial  sector,  which  included  energy,  mining,  and  manu- 
facturing, constituted  the  backbone  of  the  Egyptian  economy  in 
the  early  1990s.  Whereas  its  share  of  GDP  did  not  exceed  15  per- 
cent in  1952,  it  stood  at  more  than  33  percent  of  GDP  throughout 
the  1980s.  The  sector,  however,  did  not  perform  as  well  in  other 
respects,  especially  in  creation  of  employment.  In  1986  it  absorbed 
less  than  2  million  persons  out  of  a  total  work  force  of  more  than 
12  million.  The  sector  faced  many  problems  that  hampered  its 
growth.  Reform  was  required  in  many  policy  areas  within  and  out- 
side industry  if  the  sector  were  to  lift  Egypt  from  dependence  on 
raw  material  exports  and  other  exogenous  resources  that  supplied 
the  major  portion  of  foreign  currency  (see  Balance  of  Payments 
and  Main  Sources  of  Foreign  Exchange,  this  ch.). 

Energy 

Egypt  produced  from  domestic  sources  practically  all  the  ener- 
gy it  consumed.  Electricity  was  generated  from  oil-powered  sta- 
tions and  hydro-powered  turbines  on  the  Nile,  especially  those  of 
the  Aswan  High  Dam.  Oil  and,  increasingly,  gas  and  their  deriva- 
tives supplied  other  types  of  energy,  and  in  1990  Egypt  was  about 
to  begin  mining  coal  in  Sinai.  Solar  energy,  an  abundant  resource, 
had  not  been  tapped  because  technology  was  not  sufficiently  devel- 
oped to  enable  it  to  compete  with  other  energy  sources. 


197 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Oil  increasingly  dominated  the  energy  sector  after  the  mid-1970s. 
In  1986  petroleum  constituted  about  90  percent  of  production  and 
about  75  percent  of  consumption,  in  addition  to  being  one  of  the 
major  foreign  exchange  earners.  The  first  oil  well  was  drilled  in 
Egypt  in  1886,  but  commercial  production  began  only  in  1913. 
Output  remained  minimal  until  the  1950s,  when  the  government 
entered  into  joint  ventures  with  foreign  oil  companies  for  explora- 
tion and  development.  Through  the  Egyptian  General  Petroleum 
Company  (EGPC),  which  was  established  in  1962,  the  government 
pushed  for  production  expansion  after  the  1974  oil  price  rise;  by 
1976  Egypt  had  an  oil  trade  surplus.  Production  continued  to  grow 
in  the  1980s,  from  nearly  29.4  million  tons  per  year  (1  ton  =  6.6 
to  8  barrels  depending  on  density)  in  1981  to  an  average  of  42.7 
million  tons  per  year  between  1984  and  1988.  The  average  was 
lowered  somewhat  by  the  drop  in  output  in  1986  when  oil  prices 
plummeted  from  US$22  per  barrel  in  the  previous  year  to  US$12 
per  barrel.  Egypt  became  an  observer  member  in  the  Organiza- 
tion of  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries  (OPEC)  in  1984,  but  its 
production  policy  was  dictated  less  by  OPEC's  limits  than  by  market 
conditions. 

About  75  percent  to  80  percent  of  oil  output  in  the  1980s  came 
from  the  Gulf  of  Suez  fields,  and  the  rest  from  scattered  sites  in 
the  Western,  Arabian  (or  Eastern),  and  Sinai  deserts  and  the  Del- 
ta. The  major  foreign  oil  company  in  Egypt  was  Amoco,  which 
operated  in  Egypt  through  its  subsidiary,  the  Gulf  of  Suez  Petroleum 
Company  (Gupco).  The  firm  produced  about  one-half  of  the  coun- 
try's oil  output.  In  1987  it  leased  19,000  square  kilometers  in  Sinai 
for  oil  exploration.  Other  concessions  were  given  to  companies  such 
as  Shell  and  the  Italian  Azienda  Generale  Italiana  dei  Petroli 
(AGIP).  The  drop  in  oil  prices  in  1986  compelled  the  EGPC  to 
agree  to  production  sharing  based  on  a  sliding  scale  tied  to  the  price 
of  crude  oil.  Egypt's  recoverable  reserves  were  put  at  4.5  billion 
barrels  or  the  equivalent  of  less  than  fourteen  years  of  production 
at  the  rate  of  the  late  1980s.  At  the  end  of  the  decade,  however, 
oil  companies  were  confident  that  there  was  more  oil  to  be  dis- 
covered in  the  Western  Desert  and  possibly  in  Sinai.  If  more  oil 
should  be  found,  it  was  likely  that  recovery  costs  would  increase 
because  of  the  greater  depths  at  which  deposits  might  be  located, 
especially  offshore. 

In  addition  to  oil,  important  natural  gas  discoveries  were  made 
during  the  1970s  and  1980s,  and  gas  was  projected  to  gain  greater 
significance  in  the  1990s.  Natural  gas,  condensates,  and  butagas 
output  increased  steadily  between  1980  and  1988,  from  1.8  mil- 
lion tons  to  6.8  million  tons  (oil  equivalent),  or  at  an  annual  rate 


198 


The  Economy 


of  18  percent.  Gas  was  expected  to  be  used  mostly  domestically, 
as  an  oil  substitute,  thus  extending  the  period  during  which  oil 
would  be  available  for  export.  Gas  reserves  were  estimated  at  about 
0.28  trillion  cubic  meters  and  could  be  as  high  as  1.12  trillion  cubic 
meters.  In  the  Second  Five- Year  Plan  (FY  1987-91),  gas  output  was 
projected  to  increase  by  more  than  76  percent  over  the  1986  level. 

In  1989  the  government  signed  thirty-five  contracts  for  gas  ex- 
ploration and  development,  mainly  in  the  Western  Desert.  Many 
of  these  had  awaited  signature  for  some  time.  The  government  at 
first  thought  itself  capable  of  producing  gas  on  its  own;  however, 
the  debt  pressure,  the  fall  of  oil  prices,  and  the  large  investment 
needed  for  the  task  forced  it  to  reconsider  its  position.  Moreover, 
the  government  offered  contracting  firms  better  terms  than  previ- 
ously, including  payment  in  cash  and  oil  (which  the  companies 
preferred)  at  international  market  prices,  with  a  15  percent  discount 
for  the  government  as  a  compensation  for  building  the  pipeline  net- 
work. The  company  investing  the  most  was  Shell. 

Egypt's  electric  power  capacity  grew  substantially  between  1952 
and  1969  and  leveled  off  for  the  next  ten  years.  It  increased  from 
21,000  megawatts  in  FY  1981  to  35,200  megawatts  in  FY  1986. 
Nearly  20,000  megawatts  of  the  latter  was  power  supplied  by  the 
Aswan  Dam  and  the  Aswan  High  Dam;  the  rest  was  thermal  pow- 
er. The  country  was  in  near  panic  by  1988  because  the  long  drought 
in  Ethiopia,  where  most  of  the  Nile  water  originates,  lowered  the 
water  in  the  Aswan  High  Dam's  Lake  Nasser  to  levels  that  threat- 
ened complete  stoppage  of  the  turbines.  Fortunately,  the  rains  came 
before  this  happened,  but  the  event  pointed  to  the  danger  of  heavy 
reliance  on  a  single  source  of  power.  The  government  planned  to 
increase  power  capacity  to  40,500  megawatts  by  1992. 

A  final  source  of  energy  in  Egypt  was  coal  from  the  Magharah 
mines  in  northeastern  Sinai.  The  mines  were  thought  to  contain 
25  million  tons  of  recoverable  reserves.  They  were  closed  in  the  1960s 
but  were  expected  to  produce  600,000  tons  per  year  from  1989  on- 
ward. The  fuel  would  be  earmarked  mainly  for  the  2,500-megawatt 
Zaafaranah  complex  on  the  Gulf  of  Suez. 

Overall  energy  consumption  grew  rapidly  after  the  mid-1970s. 
The  growth  was  estimated  at  10  to  13  percent  annually  beginning 
in  the  mid-1970s  and  throughout  the  1980s.  Energy  consumption 
per  capita  was  estimated  at  588  kilograms  of  oil  equivalent  in  1987, 
commensurate  with  Egypt's  status  as  a  low-middle-income  country 
in  World  Bank  classification.  Industry  was  the  largest  energy  con- 
sumer; its  share,  for  example,  stood  at  55  percent  of  total  consump- 
tion in  the  1970s  and  probably  higher  in  the  1980s.  The  electric 
grid  reached  practically  all  villages  by  1984. 


199 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

The  high  growth  of  energy  consumption  was  attributed  to  ris- 
ing incomes,  the  price  subsidy,  and  the  building  of  an  aluminum 
smelting  plant.  The  implicit  subsidy  was  estimated  at  US$3  bil- 
lion in  FY  1983  and  at  double  that  amount  in  FY  1986.  In  spite 
of  two  price  hikes,  electricity  prices  in  1988  were  put  at  about  23 
percent  of  the  cost  of  generation,  transportation,  and  distribution. 
Fuel  prices  were  set  at  about  25  percent  of  international  market 
prices.  Both  private  domestic  consumers  and  public  industries 
received  the  subsidized  rates. 

The  price  issue  clouded  negotiations  between  the  government 
and  its  creditors.  In  1988  the  World  Bank  held  up  a  US$800-million 
loan  for  building  power  stations  because  of  the  issue.  The  govern- 
ment did,  however,  raise  prices  more  than  once.  In  1985  prices 
were  raised  by  40  percent,  on  a  graduated  basis  so  as  to  protect 
low-income  consumers.  They  were  also  pushed  up  drastically  in 
1986:  276  percent  for  fuel  oil,  67  percent  for  kerosene,  and  73  per- 
cent for  diesel.  The  capacity  of  the  government  to  raise  private  con- 
sumer prices  to  anywhere  near  their  economic  prices  in  the  near 
future  was  limited;  the  government  said  that  in  1987  the  energy 
bill  constituted  about  one-quarter  of  the  average  civil  servant's 
salary. 

Mining 

Egypt  had  adequate  energy  sources,  but  only  a  few  other  natural 
resources.  The  total  real  value  of  minerals  mined  was  about  £E102 
million  in  1986,  up  from  £E60  million  in  1981 .  The  chief  minerals 
in  terms  of  volume  output  were  iron  ore,  phosphates,  and  salt.  The 
quantities  produced  in  1986  were  estimated  at  2,048,  1,310,  and  1,233 
tons,  respectively,  compared  with  2,139,  691,  and  883  tons  in  1981. 
In  addition,  minor  amounts  of  asbestos,  313  tons,  and  quartz,  19 
tons,  were  mined  in  1986.  Preliminary  exploration  in  Sinai  indi- 
cated the  presence  of  zinc,  tin,  lead,  and  copper  deposits. 

Manufacturing 

The  first  systematic  effort  in  modern  Egyptian  history  to  create 
a  manufacturing  sector  was  undertaken  during  Muhammad  Ali's 
rule  in  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Although  that  at- 
tempt failed  to  achieve  the  ambitious  goals  set  for  it,  the  rudiments 
of  modern  manufacturing  were  put  in  place.  These  consisted 
primarily  of  food  processing,  such  as  rice  milling  and  sugar  refin- 
ing, and  textile  production,  including  cotton  ginning  and  produc- 
tion of  linen  and  woolen  fabrics.  Little  was  accomplished,  however, 
for  about  ninety  years  afterward,  and  the  economy  remained  es- 
sentially dependent  on  cotton  exports. 


200 


201 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

The  Great  Depression  and  World  War  II  opened  up  new  op- 
portunities for  industrialization,  and  the  interwar  period  witnessed 
the  beginning  of  import- substitution  industrialization.  Industrial 
output,  which  rose  more  than  40  percent  between  1939  and  1946, 
increased  by  nearly  63  percent  between  1946  and  1951.  A  brief 
recession  occurred  between  1950  and  1953,  after  a  post- World  War 
II  boom  ended;  recovery  followed  in  1954.  The  high  growth  rates 
before  1950  reflected  the  low  base  from  which  industrialization  be- 
gan; during  this  period,  industry  was  still  in  its  infancy.  Industrial 
enterprises  were  overwhelmingly  privately  owned  by  Egyptian  na- 
tionals, a  situation  that  contrasted  with  the  previous  periods  when 
foreigners  dominated  the  sector. 

Industrialization  was  given  priority  during  Nasser's  presiden- 
cy. The  government  increased  investment  outlays  and  undertook 
a  comprehensive  planning  effort  to  identify  promising  projects. 
Gradually,  it  took  over  industrial  firms,  and  by  the  early  1960s, 
most  large  manufacturing  firms  were  in  public  hands.  From  1953 
onward,  growth  of  the  manufacturing  sector  was  uneven,  with  peri- 
ods of  high  growth  followed  by  recessions.  Statistics  in  the  manufac- 
turing sector,  as  in  others,  were  problematic  and  should  be  viewed 
with  caution.  In  the  ten  years  from  FY  1953  to  FY  1963,  manufac- 
turing output  grew  at  an  average  rate  of  more  than  10  percent. 
Whether  this  growth  could  have  occurred  without  the  revolution- 
ary regime's  drive  and  institutional  changes  is  debatable.  Growth 
slowed,  however,  in  the  late  1960s  and  early  1970s,  even  register- 
ing negative  rates,  especially  between  1966  and  1968. 

The  situation  shifted  in  the  mid-1970s.  The  real  value  of  manu- 
facturing output  at  current  prices  was  estimated  to  have  grown  from 
about  £E2.1  billion  in  FY  1975  to  £E5.3  billion  in  FY  1980,  at  an 
annual  rate  of  19.6  percent.  The  corresponding  figures  for  the  peri- 
od from  FY  1980  to  FY  1985  showed  an  increase  to  £E  10.1  bil- 
lion, and  an  annual  growth  rate  of  13.7  percent.  By  the  end  of  the 
1980s,  however,  the  sector  was  facing  difficulties  and  possibly  ex- 
periencing a  recession,  thanks,  among  other  things,  to  the  plunge 
in  oil  prices  in  1986  and  to  the  country's  accumulation  of  large 
debts. 

The  output  increases  of  the  1970s  resulted  from  investment  in 
and  improvement  of  the  productivity  of  existing  firms.  The  share 
of  manufacturing  (including  mining)  investment  averaged  from 
around  one-fourth  to  one-third  of  total  investment  from  1954  up 
to  1989.  For  example,  manufacturing  investment  was  estimated 
at  31.3  percent  in  FY  1977  and  23.9  percent  in  FY  1986.  The  Sec- 
ond Five-Year  Plan  (FY  1987-91)  projected  that  manufacturing 
would  make  up  more  than  26  percent  of  the  total.  It  was  not  clear 


202 


The  Economy 


how  financial  difficulties  would  affect  these  projections,  but  the  pro- 
portion of  total  investment  to  GDP  was  already  falling  by  the  end 
of  the  1980s. 

Manufacturing  productivity  improved  after  the  slowdown  be- 
tween 1966  and  1974  as  a  result,  among  other  factors,  of  capacity 
utilization  made  possible  by  the  income-induced  rise  in  demand. 
Idle  capacity  approximated  16  percent  of  output  value  in  1973. 
Subsequently,  total-factor  productivity  of  public-sector  enterprises 
under  the  Ministry  of  Industry  was  calculated  as  having  risen  by 
3.5  percent  annually  for  textiles  and  by  8.7  percent  annually  for 
chemicals  between  1973  and  1981.  No  similar  information  was  read- 
ily available  after  that  date.  The  growth  rates  of  private-sector 
manufacturing  productivity  were  lower,  probably  reflecting  the 
higher  prices  the  sector  paid  for  inputs  (see  below).  Yet  in  spite 
of  the  steady  rise  of  productivity  and  output,  the  sector's  share  of 
GDP  remained  constant  in  the  1980s,  because  it  was  outperformed 
by  other  sectors. 

The  contribution  of  manufacturing  to  employment  was  also  not 
commensurate  with  the  funds  that  were  allocated  to  it.  The  num- 
ber of  workers  in  manufacturing  (including  mining)  was  estimat- 
ed at  about  1 . 1  million  in  1970,  1.4  million  in  1980,  and  1 .8  million 
in  1986,  or  12.3  percent,  12.6  percent,  and  14.8  percent,  respec- 
tively, of  total  employment.  The  sector's  inability  to  increase  em- 
ployment substantially  was  usually  attributed  to  the  fact  that 
manufacturing  operations  were  highly  capital  intensive.  Also,  the 
increases  in  productivity  and  value  added  may  have  come  largely 
from  using  previously  underemployed  labor,  rather  than  from  new 
hiring. 

One  of  the  central  issues  of  Egyptian  industry  in  the  1980s  was 
governmental  price  regulation  in  both  the  production  and  distri- 
bution domains.  In  the  production  domain,  public  sector  compa- 
nies purchased  inputs,  such  as  energy,  at  subsidized  prices.  The 
private  sector  complained  that  it,  in  contrast,  had  to  pay  higher 
prices.  The  successive  increases  of  energy  prices  and  the  lifting  of 
controls  on  agricultural  prices  probably  narrowed  the  gap  between 
the  costs  of  the  two  sectors,  however. 

In  the  distribution  sphere,  the  government  fixed  the  prices  of 
a  wide  array  of  domestically  manufactured  consumer  products,  from 
beverages  to  soap  to  cars,  at  levels  that  many  economists  consid- 
ered too  low,  Thus,  the  pricing  system  acted  as  a  double-edged 
sword  and  affected  companies  differently;  some  benefited  whereas 
others  lost.  After  1982  the  government  eased  its  price  controls  and 
permitted  gradual  increases  so  long  as  they  did  not  threaten  politi- 
cal stability.  The  companies  themselves  also  resorted  to  various 


203 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

mechanisms  to  offset  the  restrictions.  For  example,  private  com- 
panies producing  beverages  reduced  the  bottle  size  but  maintained 
the  price,  and  the  public  car  manufacturing  company,  An  Nasr, 
required  that  buyers  pay  in  dollars  so  as  to  have  access  to  hard 
currency  and  avoid  the  continual  decline  of  the  value  of  the  Egyp- 
tian pound.  In  spite  of  this,  both  private  and  public  firms  continued 
to  lobby  in  1990  for  more  flexibility  in  pricing  their  products. 

Manufacturing  exports  grew  slowly,  falling  in  some  years;  ex- 
ports started  to  make  a  strong  showing  only  at  the  close  of  the  1980s. 
For  example,  the  value  of  manufactured  exports  dropped  from 
US$504  miUion  in  1978  to  US$373  million  in  1979  and  exceeded 
its  former  level  only  in  1983.  Manufactured  exports  nearly  dou- 
bled in  value,  however,  between  1983  and  1987,  from  US$656  mil- 
lion to  US$1 .26  billion.  The  share  of  manufacturing  in  total  exports 
was  dwarfed  by  that  of  oil  during  the  peak  period  of  oil  prices  in 
the  first  half  of  the  1980s.  It  grew  subsequently,  amounting  to  more 
than  26  percent  in  1988,  and  manufactured  exports  were  becom- 
ing perhaps  the  fastest  growing  area  of  the  economy  in  the  late 
1980s.  The  largest  manufactured  export  item  throughout  was  tex- 
tiles because  of  the  favorable  reputation  of  Egyptian  cotton.  Tex- 
tiles made  up  more  than  one-third  of  total  manufacturing  exports 
in  the  1980s. 

Industrialization  was  an  inward-looking  undertaking,  intended 
in  the  first  place  to  enhance  self-reliance  through  import  substitu- 
tion. Industrial  selection,  therefore,  often  did  not  take  into  account 
comparative  advantage.  Some  domestic-resource  cost  analyses  in- 
dicated that  steel  and  chemical  industries,  for  example,  did  not  enjoy 
comparative  advantage.  Comparative  advantage  changed  over  time, 
however,  and  domestic-resource  costs  for  the  steel  industry,  for  in- 
stance, fell  considerably  between  1965  and  1985  as  a  result  of  ex- 
perience, increasing  skill  of  workers,  discovery  of  better  quality  raw 
materials,  and  improving  economies  of  scale.  Manufacturing  ex- 
ports were  also  affected  by  macroeconomic  factors,  such  as  the  over- 
valued currency  and  the  level  of  domestic  demand.  The  growth 
of  exports  in  the  late  1980s  probably  partially  reflected  the  depreci- 
ation of  the  Egyptian  pound  that  made  Egyptian  goods  cheaper 
abroad.  Developing  a  successful  export  market  also  required  mar- 
keting skills  and  access  to  information  that  Egypt  lacked  after  many 
years  of  bilateral  trade.  The  Second  Five-Year  Plan  (FY  1987-91) 
spoke  of  a  shift  to  export-oriented  rather  than  import-substitution 
industrialization . 

Egyptian  manufacturing  was  progressively  diversified  over  the 
years  through  the  introduction  of  new  products,  but  food  process- 
ing and  textiles,  which  produced  mostly  consumer  goods,  remained 


204 


The  Economy 


the  dominant  categories.  The  share  of  food  processing  hovered 
around  one-third  of  total  manufacturing  between  1975  and  1985. 
The  share  of  textiles  was  close  to  that  of  food  until  1981,  when, 
because  of  the  fall  in  cotton  production,  it  began  to  shrink,  reach- 
ing one-quarter  in  FY  1985.  The  proportion  of  engineering  and 
electrical  manufactured  goods,  which  included  such  items  as  iron 
and  steel,  vehicles,  and  equipment,  rose  from  18  percent  to  nearly 
24  percent  between  1975  and  1985.  The  fourth  largest  category 
was  chemicals  and  pharmaceuticals,  with  12  to  14  percent  of  the 
total  over  the  same  period.  The  last  two  types  of  industry  were  those 
producing  intermediate  goods,  that  is,  inputs  for  other  industries, 
and  capital  goods;  no  data  were  available  on  the  exact  share  of  each 
of  these. 

Industries  were  located  mainly  in  the  urban  governorates.  Cairo 
and  Giza  accounted  for  about  37.5  percent  of  all  industries  and 
Alexandria  for  more  than  23  percent.  Industrial  location  was 
governed  by  factors  such  as  population  density,  as  in  the  case  of 
food  processing,  and  by  the  availability  of  skilled  labor,  as  in  the 
case  of  electronics  in  Cairo,  Giza,  and  Alexandria,  as  well  as  in 
the  case  of  furniture  in  Damietta  and  Al  Qalyubiyah,  north  of  Cairo. 
The  concentration  of  industries  both  expressed  and  reinforced 
regional  disparities  as  well  as  the  skewed  population  distribution. 
In  the  1980s,  the  government  was  offering  tax  and  other  incen- 
tives to  investors  who  would  locate  their  factories  away  from  the 
metropolitan  centers. 

Manufacturing  had  become  largely  a  public- sector  activity  by 
the  early  1960s.  Before  1952  the  government  owned  a  limited  num- 
ber of  enterprises,  including  a  petroleum  refinery,  the  government 
press,  and  some  military  factories.  By  the  late  1960s,  the  public 
sector's  output  value  accounted  for  about  two- thirds  of  the  total, 
and  it  has  remained  more  or  less  at  that  level  since.  The  size  of  the 
public  sector  would  be  smaller  if  measured  in  terms  of  its  share 
of  employment,  which  ranged  from  50  to  60  percent.  The  public 
sector  was  dominant  in  large-scale  firms,  especially  those  with  more 
than  500  employees;  its  share  declined  in  smaller-scale  industries. 
Government  firms  tended  to  be  large  because  investment  favored 
such  scale,  the  nationalized  factories  were  selectively  large,  and 
government  job  guarantees  in  FY  1961  often  led  to  overstafflng. 
The  manufacturing  categories  in  which  the  public  sector  dominated 
were  the  chemicals,  pharmaceuticals,  engineering,  and  electrical 
industries.  The  public  sector  also  owned  large  textile  and  sugar 
refining  factories. 

The  private  sector  dominated  small-scale  industries,  especially 
those  with  ten  workers  or  fewer.  This  group  included  industries 


205 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

devoted  to  food,  beverages,  dairy  products,  spinning  and  weav- 
ing, and  various  handicrafts.  Some  of  the  most  profitable  private- 
sector  firms  in  the  1980s  were  those  producing  beverages,  light  tools, 
consumer  electric  products,  printing,  and  apparel.  Businesses  with 
the  highest  productivity  growth  rates  were  food-processing  opera- 
tions, such  as  those  producing  sugar,  oil,  fodder,  dairy  products,  and 
canned  fruits  and  vegetables.  Some  analysts,  therefore,  anticipated 
that  these  manufacturing  fields  would  attract  private  entrepreneurs 
in  the  near  future,  unless  incentives  in  other  areas  were  forthcoming. 

The  public- sector  predominance  occurred  chiefly  through  invest- 
ment. Public  investment  in  manufacturing  throughout  the  1960s 
and  1970s  ranged  between  85  percent  and  90  percent  of  total 
manufacturing  investment.  In  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  (FY  1982- 
86),  it  constituted  about  80  percent;  in  the  Second  Five- Year  Plan 
(FY  1987-91),  it  was  to  be  reduced  to  between  60  percent  and  63 
percent,  mainly  because  of  the  government's  dwindling  financial 
resources.  Public  investment  was  to  focus  on  finishing  ongoing  proj- 
ects and  upgrading  industrial  plants.  Any  new  projects  would  be 
subject  to  greater  technical  and  economic  scrutiny  than  in  the  past. 

Whether  the  private  sector  would  be  able  to  provide  the  esti- 
mated 40  percent  of  new  investment  remained  to  be  seen.  The  sector 
faced  a  thicket  of  problems,  including  an  unwieldy  bureaucracy, 
a  pricing  system  that  was  not  based  on  market  factors,  a  shortage 
of  skilled  labor,  and  the  uncertainty  of  investment  calculations  be- 
cause of  the  instability  of  the  national  currency.  In  addition,  un- 
regulated operations  of  investment  companies  drew  investments 
from  productive  areas,  and  it  was  difficult  to  obtain  foreign  ex- 
change as  the  pound  depreciated,  especially  for  schemes  with  a  large 
import  component. 

The  role  and  size  of  the  public  sector  became  a  point  of  conten- 
tion after  the  1974  infitah.  The  struggle  over  the  sector  grew  more 
heated  as  Egypt's  creditors  and  aid  donors,  especially  the  United 
States  through  AID  and  the  multilateral  agencies,  began  to  press 
the  policy  of  privatization.  Many  interests  were  involved:  business, 
labor,  political  parties,  government,  and  the  intelligentsia.  The 
thrust  of  the  argument  for  privatization  was  that  the  public  sector 
was  inefficient  and  that  many  firms  were  losing  money  and  would 
have  closed  down  had  it  not  been  for  government  "bail-out." 
Moreover,  it  was  contended  that  by  selling  its  companies  the  govern- 
ment could  reduce  its  debt  and  its  budget  deficits.  While  admit- 
ting that  some  public  firms  had  lost  money,  privatization  opponents 
claimed  that  the  number  of  losing  firms  had  decreased  substan- 
tially in  recent  years;  that  pricing  policy  was  responsible  for  some 
of  the  losses;  that  profits  as  a  whole  substantially  surpassed  losses; 


206 


The  Economy 


that  the  public  sector  invested  in  projects  important  for  the  coun- 
try's welfare,  in  which  the  private  sector  would  not  be  interested; 
that  privatization  would  lead  to  the  displacement  of  large  num- 
bers of  workers;  and  that  the  public  sector  was  the  largest  taxpay- 
er in  the  country.  Opponents  of  privatization  argued  that  if  the 
private  sector  wished  to  invest  in  manufacturing  it  could  create  new 
establishments  rather  than  buy  existing  ones.  They  agreed,  however, 
on  the  need  for  public-sector  and  other  policy  reforms.  The  pro- 
posed reforms  revolved  around  giving  the  enterprises  more  flexi- 
bility to  set  their  own  production  and  price  levels  and  employment 
policy,  as  well  as  introducing  modern  management  procedures. 

Foreign  Trade 

From  1840  to  1930,  Egypt  had  a  free  trade  system,  based  on  the 
conventions  that  were  imposed  by  the  European  powers.  The  con- 
ventions limited  tariffs  to  5  percent — later  8  percent — on  most  impor- 
ted goods.  This  system  constituted  a  serious  obstacle  to  the  country's 
industrialization.  In  1930  Egyptian  authorities,  in  their  quest  to 
establish  an  industrial  base,  were  able  to  determine  their  own  im- 
port duty  levels,  setting  them  at  6  to  8  percent  for  raw  materials 
and  up  to  15  percent  for  manufactured  goods.  Another  step  toward 
more  independent  decision  making  in  the  foreign  trade  domain 
occurred  in  1947  when  the  government  decided  to  leave  the  ster- 
ling standard  and  move  away  from  trade  with  Britain. 

As  with  other  aspects  of  the  economy,  foreign  trade  came  under 
government  control  gradually  in  the  1950s  and  then  decisively  in 
1961.  From  that  year  until  Sadat's  infitah,  all  exports,  imports, 
prices,  and  payments  were  handled  by  public  organizations  and 
enterprises.  The  government,  however,  did  not  have  an  entirely 
free  hand  in  running  foreign  trade.  It  had  to  operate  within  the 
constraints  of  domestic  supply  and  demand  and  under  the  com- 
promises reached  with  bilateral  trading  partners.  The  private  sec- 
tor also  could  still  export  fruit  and  vegetables  and  a  few  other  items. 

The  state  monopoly  on  trade  was  eased  in  the  1970s.  Initially, 
private  firms  were  permitted  to  import  some  commodities  under 
particular  conditions.  Then,  in  1976  the  government  holding  com- 
pany that  had  controlled  foreign  trade  was  abolished,  and  the  pri- 
vate sector  was  able  to  trade  in  most  goods,  with  a  few  exceptions, 
such  as  cotton.  The  government,  especially  under  Mubarak,  offered 
investment  incentives  that  included  fewer  restrictions  on  imports 
and  exports  of  commodities  by  the  private  sector.  The  government 
also  extended  the  multirate  exchange  system,  in  part  to  facilitate 
foreign  trade  transactions.  But  the  multiple  exchange  system  created 


207 


Egypt:  A  Country  'Study 


statistical  difficulties,  and  foreign  trade  accounts  could  be  more  con- 
sistently examined  if  expressed  in  dollars  or  Special  Drawing  Rights 
(SDRs— see  Glossary)  of  the  IMF. 

Exports 

The  composition  of  commodity  (also  called  visible)  exports  shifted 
over  time.  Before  World  War  II,  raw  cotton  made  up  90  percent 
of  total  export  value,  but  by  1970  it  had  dropped  to  45  percent. 
Cotton  textiles,  meanwhile,  rose  to  represent  16  percent  in  1970. 
In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  oil  and  petroleum  products  dominated  the 
export  list,  reaching  about  79  percent  of  the  total  in  1985.  This 
share,  however,  fell  with  the  drop  in  oil  prices  in  1986  (see  table 
10,  Appendix). 

Non-oil  exports  stagnated  and  in  some  years  decreased.  For  ex- 
ample, textile  exports  fell  from  US$267  miUion  in  1979  to  US$199 
million  in  1983.  They  increased  after  the  government  gave  incen- 
tives to  exporters,  permitting  them  to  retain  their  foreign-exchange 
earnings  and  to  convert  them  at  the  free-market  rate.  The  drop 
in  the  oil  price  in  1986,  however,  led  to  a  serious  decline  of  rough- 
ly 22  percent  in  the  overall  value  of  exports  between  1985  and  1988. 
Economists  advised  that  the  country  should  strive  to  increase  ex- 
ports of  textiles  and  other  manufactured  products  in  the  long  run, 
because  of  the  volatility  of  raw  material  prices  and  the  potential 
rapid  depletion  of  some  natural  resources,  especially  oil. 

Imports 

Two  major  trends  occurred  in  the  composition  of  merchandise 
imports.  The  first  trend  was  the  decline  in  the  late  1980s  in  the 
value  of  capital  and  intermediate  goods  (e.g.,  industrial  and  agricul- 
tural inputs).  For  example,  the  value  of  capital  goods  imports  in 
1988  was  14  percent  less  than  it  was  in  1985.  While  capital  goods 
and  intermediate  goods  imports  dropped  in  absolute  value, 
however,  their  share  of  total  imports  grew.  Nevertheless,  the  decline 
in  the  absolute  value  was  likely  to  have  an  adverse  impact  on  the 
development  of  such  sectors  as  industry  and  agriculture. 

The  second  trend  was  the  continuous  increase  from  1979  to  1985 
in  the  share  of  food  and  agriculture  in  the  import  bill.  The  increase 
began  in  the  1970s,  as  the  result  of  a  combination  of  population 
and  income  growth  and  the  unsatisfactory  performance  of  agricul- 
ture. The  trend  persisted  through  the  1980s,  until  food  became  the 
fourth  largest  item  in  the  import  bill.  Not  all  the  value  of  food  com- 
ing into  Egypt,  however,  appeared  in  foreign  trade  accounts,  be- 
cause a  large  proportion  of  the  wheat  came  as  grants,  especially 


208 


The  Economy 


from  the  United  States.  Hence,  the  import  figures  seriously  un- 
derestimated the  value  of  imported  foods. 

Overall,  merchandise  imports  rose  rapidly  after  1975,  mainly 
because  of  the  big  rise  in  world  oil  prices,  which  gave  Egypt  more 
purchasing  power,  and  because  of  the  liberalization  of  import  policy. 
In  FY  1983,  an  election  year,  merchandise  imports  approached 
US$10  billion.  The  government  subsequently  reintroduced  some 
restrictions  on  private- sector  imports.  These  measures,  together 
with  the  general  scarcity  of  foreign  exchange  in  commercial  banks, 
led  to  a  leveling  off  of  imports  and  then  to  an  actual  decline. 

The  value  of  imports  since  World  War  II  has  consistently  ex- 
ceeded that  of  exports,  and  a  chronic  trade  deficit  has  marked 
Egypt's  foreign  trade.  The  deficit  nearly  doubled  between  1979 
and  1985,  growing  at  an  annual  rate  of  about  11.8  percent.  The 
growth  of  the  deficit  slowed  considerably  after  the  1985-86  collapse 
of  oil  prices  and  the  concomitant  drop  in  imports.  In  1987  the  deficit 
reached  about  US$4.4  billion,  and  it  climbed  again  in  1988  to  nearly 
US$5.9  billion. 

Trade  Partners 

The  revolutionary  regime  shifted  Egypt  not  only  politically  but 
also  economically  toward  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe. 
Prior  to  1952,  Egypt's  major  trading  partner  was  Britain.  By  1970 
the  share  of  Egypt's  exports  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Eu- 
rope had  risen  to  about  60  percent  of  the  total,  climbing  from  about 
20  percent  in  1955.  The  share  of  imports  from  the  Soviet  Union 
and  Eastern  Europe  during  the  same  period  increased  from  7  per- 
cent to  about  33  percent.  Nevertheless,  Western  industrialized  coun- 
tries continued  to  be  the  major  source  of  imports,  especially  of  food, 
which  Eastern  Europe  could  not  furnish.  In  general,  trade  with 
Eastern  Europe  showed  a  balance  of  payments  surplus  in  favor  of 
Egypt,  but  this  surplus  may  have  resulted  partly  from  politically 
motivated  subsidies. 

Ending  the  concentration  of  trade  with  Eastern  Europe  was  an 
integral  element  of  Sadat's  westward  reorientation  of  the  country. 
The  consolidation  of  trade  with  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co- 
operation and  Development  (OECD)  continued  apace  under 
Mubarak.  The  United  States  emerged  as  Egypt's  largest  source 
of  imports,  in  part  because  its  aid  to  Egypt  was  conditioned  on 
Egypt's  purchasing  American  goods  and  services.  Between  1982 
and  1986,  Egypt  obtained  from  the  United  States  an  average  of 
16  percent  of  its  total  imports.  On  the  average,  OECD  nations  sup- 
plied 46  percent  of  imports  and  purchased  55  percent  of  Egypt's 
exports  by  1986. 


209 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Put  differently,  Egyptian  foreign  trade  was  concentrated  with 
the  industrialized  countries.  Third  World  and  Arab  nations  were 
minor  trading  partners.  Some  analysts  argued,  however,  that  if 
Egypt  wished  to  attract  foreign  industrial  investment  it  would  need 
to  obtain  new  markets,  especially  in  the  Arab  region.  The  Arab 
market  had  been  closed  to  Egypt  because  of  Egypt's  1979  peace 
treaty  with  Israel,  but  the  reentry  of  Egypt  into  the  Arab  fold  in 
the  mid-1980s  might  further  trade  with  the  Arab  nations.  A  regional 
economic  Arab  Cooperation  Council  including  Egypt,  Iraq,  Jor- 
dan, and  the  Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North  Yemen)  was  formed 
in  February  1989.  It  set  modest  goals,  and  in  the  early  1990s  it 
was  unclear  how  this  accord  would  fare,  given  the  failed  record 
of  Arab  integration  schemes  and  the  politicized  nature  of  the  bloc, 
which,  for  example,  excluded  Syria,  a  natural  partner  in  regional 
economic  cooperation. 

Balance  of  Payments  and  Main  Sources  of  Foreign 
Exchange 

Balance  of  payments  transactions  are  usually  tabulated  under 
two  broad  categories,  current  account  and  capital  account.  Current 
account  includes  visible  (merchandise)  trade  as  well  as  invisible 
items,  such  as  tourism,  shipping,  and  profits  and  other  moneys 
earned  overseas. 

In  Egypt  the  credit  side  of  the  current  account  balance  was  heavily 
influenced  by  four  items:  oil,  the  Suez  Canal,  tourism,  and  work- 
ers' remittances.  Their  share  in  total  resources  (GDP  plus  net 
imports)  climbed  to  about  45  percent  in  the  early  1980s,  from  6 
percent  in  1974.  It  declined  afterward  but  continued  to  be  the  back- 
bone of  the  economy.  These  four  items  also  contributed  consider- 
ably more  to  Egypt's  foreign  exchange  income  than  they  did  to 
the  country's  total  resources.  A  common  characteristic  of  these  items 
was  that  they  were  "exogenous"  resources,  i.e.,  their  productivi- 
ty had  little  relationship  to  Egyptian  labor,  and  their  income  was 
highly  dependent  on  market  and  political  forces  beyond  the  con- 
trol of  the  Egyptian  government  (see  table  11,  Appendix). 

Petroleum 

Petroleum  played  a  major  part  in  Egypt's  balance  of  payments. 
For  many  years,  it  was  the  most  important  source  of  foreign  ex- 
change for  the  government  and  the  second  most  important,  after 
workers'  remittances,  for  the  economy  as  a  whole.  In  addition,  other 
exogenous  sources,  remittances,  and  Suez  Canal  revenues  were 
directly  and  indirectly  influenced  by  petroleum  production.  Its 


210 


The  Economy 


significance  as  a  generator  of  foreign  exchange  first  emerged  in  the 
1970s.  With  the  rise  of  oil  prices  in  the  world  market  in  1974,  Egypt 
began  to  pump  greater  quantities  of  oil.  Oil  prices  continued  to 
increase  between  1974  and  1980,  when  they  reached  about  US$38 
per  barrel.  They  began  to  fall  after  1980  until  they  crashed  to  about 
US$12  in  1986  but  made  a  slight  recovery  after  that  date. 

Crude  oil  production  increased  more  than  fivefold  between  1974 
and  1984,  from  7.5  million  tons  to  38.5  million  tons.  Some  of  the 
increase  was  absorbed  by  domestic  consumption,  while  the  rest  was 
exported.  Crude  oil  exports  tripled  between  1976  and  the  first  half 
of  the  1980s.  The  index  dropped  to  70  in  1986  as  the  government 
sought  to  counter  the  decline  in  prices  by  reducing  supply,  hoping 
that  the  price  would  quickly  rebound.  Output  was  restored  to  previ- 
ous levels  in  1987.  In  1988  the  index  fell  once  more  to  68. 

The  export  value  of  oil  by  domestic  companies  followed  the  trajec- 
tory of  both  prices  and  production.  At  current  prices,  it  peaked 
in  1984  at  about  US$3  billion,  dropped  to  about  US$1.4  billion 
in  1986,  and  rose  to  about  US$1.6  billion  in  1988.  These  figures 
represented  the  Egyptian  share,  not  that  of  foreign  companies  (the 
latter  appeared  on  the  credit  side  in  export  transactions,  then  as 
outflows  on  the  debit  side  in  net  factor  income  entries,  summing 
up  to  zero  in  the  total  current  account  balance). 

Experts  pointed  out  that  not  only  were  petroleum  revenues  un- 
predictable but  oil  was  depletable.  They  predicted  depletion  could 
occur  within  twenty  to  thirty  years  or  somewhat  later  if  natural 
gas,  which  was  in  some  respects  an  oil  substitute,  were  taken  into 
account.  The  exportable  surplus  of  hydrocarbons,  however,  would 
end  long  before  the  supply  was  exhausted. 

Suez  Canal 

The  French  played  a  significant  role  in  the  building  of  the  Suez 
Canal,  which  links  the  Red  Sea  and  the  Mediterranean.  French 
engineer  Ferdinand  de  Lesseps  designed  and  supervised  the  con- 
struction of  the  project.  In  addition,  the  French,  who,  like  other 
European  powers,  sought  to  shorten  the  trip  between  Europe  and 
Asia,  funded  most  of  the  construction.  Completion  of  the  160- 
kilometer  long  waterway,  however,  took  ten  years  of  excruciating 
and  poorly  compensated  labor  by  Egyptian  workers,  who  were  draft- 
ed at  the  rate  of  20,000  every  ten  months  from  the  ranks  of  the 
peasantry. 

The  canal  was  opened  to  navigation  in  November  1869  under 
a  concession  to  Britain  and  France  scheduled  to  expire  in  1968. 
Although  the  French  were  the  force  behind  the  project,  Britain  stood 
to  gain  the  most  because  of  its  extensive  possessions  in  Asia.  In 


211 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

the  1870s  it  "bought"  the  shares  of  the  Egyptian  khedive.  The  canal 
remained  under  the  control  of  both  powers  until  Nasser  national- 
ized it  in  1956;  it  has  since  been  operated  by  the  Suez  Canal 
Authority  (see  Abbas  Hilmi,  1848-54  and  Said,  1854-63,  ch.  1). 

The  canal  was  closed  to  navigation  twice  in  the  contemporary 
period.  The  first  closure  was  brief,  coming  after  the  Tripartite 
British-French-Israeli  Invasion  of  Egypt  in  1956,  an  invasion 
primarily  motivated  by  the  nationalization  of  the  waterway.  The 
canal  was  reopened  in  1957.  The  second  closure  occurred  after  the 
June  1967  War  with  Israel  and  lasted  until  1975,  when  Egypt  and 
Israel  signed  the  second  disengagement  accord. 

The  tonnage  passing  through  the  canal  increased  consistently 
except  for  a  short  interruption  after  1985-86,  when  the  Iran-Iraq 
War  hampered  oil  production  and  navigation  in  the  Persian  Gulf. 
Between  1976  and  1983,  net  tonnage  rose  from  187  to  378,  increasing 
at  the  rate  of  10.5  percent  annually.  Traffic  in  the  canal  depended 
partially  on  oil  shipments.  Tanker  tonnage  made  up  more  than  40 
percent  of  total  traffic  in  1976,  and  about  36  percent  of  the  total 
in  1983. 

Revenues  increased  throughout  the  period,  growing  at  an  an- 
nual rate  of  8.7  percent  between  1979  and  1985.  They  were  ex- 
pected to  reach  US$1.3  billion  in  1988.  The  canal  thus  emerged 
as  the  third  major  source  of  foreign  exchange  after  workers'  remit- 
tances and  oil  exports.  Receipts  from  the  canal  continued  to  climb, 
in  spite  of  the  reduction  in  tonnage,  partly  because  the  canal  toll 
was  raised  from  2  to  6.5  percent  annually  between  1981  and  1985. 
Also,  because  the  toll  was  evaluated  in  SDRs  of  the  IMF,  revenues 
did  not  suffer  in  terms  of  the  United  States  dollar  value  in  1986 
although  the  dollar  depreciated  that  year  against  the  SDR. 

Growth  in  canal  revenues  was  likely  to  remain  modest.  The 
canal's  size  limited  the  volume  of  traffic  that  could  pass  through 
it,  and  if  tolls  were  raised  beyond  certain  limits,  tankers  and  other 
vessels  could  opt  for  other  routes.  Economists  accordingly  estimated 
that  future  receipts  would  perhaps  grow  in  line  with  world  trade 
at  the  rate  of  4  to  5  percent  annually. 

Remittances 

The  coincidence  of  the  infitah  and  the  upward  jump  in  oil  prices 
in  the  mid-1970s  led  to  enormous  labor  emigration  to  the  oil- 
producing  Arab  states,  as  well  as  to  what  became  the  largest  source 
of  foreign  exchange:  remittances.  Egyptians  had  already  been  work- 
ing in  many  of  these  countries  but  only  in  small  numbers  and  usual- 
ly as  professionals  and  skilled  workers.  The  sums  they  sent  back 


212 


The  Economy 


home  were  modest;  in  1970  recorded  remittances  were  estimated 
at  around  US$30  million. 

In  1986  the  government  estimated  the  number  of  Egyptians  work- 
ing abroad  at  3  million.  They  included  large  numbers  of  unskilled 
workers,  but  there  were  also  many  skilled  workers  or  profession- 
als. Iraq  hosted  the  largest  number,  sometimes  estimated  at  1  mil- 
lion. In  part,  the  flow  of  Egyptian  workers  into  Iraq  was  stimulated 
by  its  war  with  Iran,  which  required  the  drafting  of  large  numbers 
of  men  of  working  age.  The  overall  number  of  Egyptians  working 
in  Arab  countries  was  thought  to  have  decreased  as  a  result  of  the 
drop  in  oil  prices  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s. 

Analysts  disagreed  on  both  the  amount  and  the  actual  impact 
of  remittances  on  the  economy.  For  instance,  remittances  were  es- 
timated in  the  early  1980s  at  between  US$3  billion  and  US$18  bil- 
lion. The  reason  for  the  discrepancy  was  that  workers  often  remitted 
earnings  to  their  families  by  hand,  not  through  official  banking 
channels.  They  were  prompted  to  do  so  by  the  instability  and  offi- 
cial overvaluation  of  the  Egyptian  pound  and  by  the  fact  that  many 
workers  were  illiterate  or  had  limited  education  and  felt  uneasy 
dealing  with  banks. 

The  avoidance  of  official  routes  gave  rise  to  a  hidden  or  invisi- 
ble economy,  controlled  by  intermediaries  and  money  dealers  who 
profited  from  exchange-rate  differentials.  Some  analysts  suggest- 
ed that  the  presence  of  this  economy,  depending  on  its  size,  might 
invalidate  calculations  about  such  factors  as  the  balance  of  pay- 
ments, the  GDP,  and  the  government's  ability  to  carry  out  partic- 
ular exchange  policies. 

Recorded  remittances  fluctuated  over  time,  not  always  reflect- 
ing the  income  of  expatriate  workers.  According  to  some  estimates, 
remittances  fell  to  about  US$1.94  billion  in  1982,  from  about 
US$2.86  billion  in  1981.  The  decline  was  probably  caused  by  the 
uncertainty  generated  by  the  assassination  of  Sadat  in  1981 .  Remit- 
tances recovered  subsequently  and  in  1984  reached  approximate- 
ly US$3.93  billion,  a  record  high.  The  combination  of  instability 
in  the  Persian  Gulf  and  the  collapse  in  oil  prices  caused  remittances 
to  fall  again;  in  1988  they  stood  at  about  US$3.39  billion. 

Egyptian  analysts  and  policy  makers  believed  that  a  large  pool 
of  savings  kept  by  migrant  Egyptian  workers  and  others  either 
flowed  abroad  or  never  flowed  home  and  that  it  vastly  exceeded 
remittances.  The  sums  they  cited  ranged  from  US$40  billion  to 
US$70  billion.  Attracting  these  funds  to  improve  the  balance  of 
payments  position  might  require  improving  the  investment  at- 
mosphere and  opportunities,  raising  interest  rates,  and  simplifying 


213 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

exchange  transactions.  As  one  incentive,  the  government  in  1986 
offered  tax  exemptions  on  bonds  it  intended  to  sell  in  foreign  ex- 
change. 

The  future  of  remittances  depended  on  many  factors.  In  Iraq 
stirrings  surfaced  in  late  1989  against  the  presence  of  large  num- 
bers of  Egyptian  workers.  The  events  prompted  high-level  contacts 
between  the  two  governments  and  the  intervention  of  the  Iraqi  presi- 
dent to  reassure  the  workers.  In  addition,  because  the  construc- 
tion boom  in  the  Persian  Gulf  had  ended,  the  Gulf  countries,  for 
social,  political,  and  economic  reasons,  would  hesitate  to  welcome 
many  newcomers.  According  to  one  estimate,  remittances  could 
perhaps  grow  at  a  real  annual  rate  of  1  to  2  percent  after  1990. 

Tourism 

As  the  site  of  one  of  the  oldest  civilizations,  Egypt  held  many 
unique  attractions  for  tourists.  In  addition,  the  country  has  some 
of  the  finest  beaches  on  the  Mediterranean,  modern  cities,  an  at- 
tractive climate,  moderate  prices  for  services,  and  a  reputation  for 
hospitality  to  foreign  visitors. 

Whereas  tourism  was  not  an  exogenous  resource  to  the  extent 
that  oil  or  remittances  were,  it  had  been  affected  by  politics  and 
external  developments  in  which  Egypt  had  little  say.  The  number 
of  tourists  reached  a  peak  of  578,734  in  1966  before  the  June  1967 
War.  The  number  dropped  sharply  for  several  years  afterward  and 
then  began  to  rebound.  The  figure  in  1972  was  541 ,000,  and  it  in- 
creased steadily  thereafter.  The  only  exception  was  in  1986  when 
the  number  fell  to  about  1 . 3  million  from  about  1 . 5  million  in  the 
preceding  year.  The  decrease  was  attributed  to  the  hijacking  of  the 
Italian  liner,  the  Achille  Lauro,  toward  the  end  of  1985;  security  police 
riots  in  Cairo  in  February  1986;  and  the  United  States  air  raid 
on  Libya  in  April  1986.  The  growth  rate  in  numbers  of  tourists 
arriving  in  Egypt  between  1975  and  1985  was  a  respectable  6.7 
percent  per  annum.  In  1988  the  minister  of  tourism  anticipated 
that  about  2  million  tourists  would  visit  Egypt  that  year. 

The  nationality  composition  of  tourists  fluctuated.  The  main 
groups  were  Arabs  and  OECD  nationals.  Between  1975  and  1980, 
the  major  increase  came  from  OECD  countries.  Sadat's  separate 
peace  accord  with  Israel  discouraged  Arabs  from  spending  time 
in  Egypt.  Between  1980  and  1984,  the  annual  growth  rate  of  tourists 
from  both  groups  was  approximately  the  same,  5.5  percent.  Since 
1978  the  number  of  Arabs  has  averaged  80  percent  of  the  number 
of  OECD  citizens. 

Tourism  earnings  were  difficult  to  trace  because  earnings  fluc- 
tuated while  the  number  of  tourists  kept  rising.  Economic  and 


214 


The  Economy 


statistical  reasons  accounted  for  these  difficulties.  After  1982,  in- 
come from  Egypt  Air,  the  national  airline,  was  moved  to  nonfac- 
tor  services,  causing  tourist  receipts  to  seem  lower  in  1983  and  1985 
than  they  were  in  1979.  Furthermore,  the  increase  in  the  number 
of  average  tourist  nights  spent  in  the  country  did  not  necessarily 
correspond  to  the  number  of  visitors.  The  value  of  the  Egyptian 
pound  also  continued  to  depreciate,  dropping  by  about  30  percent 
against  the  dollar  in  1986  and  adding  another  discrepancy  to  the 
accounts.  Finally,  tourists  preferred  to  exchange  their  money  in 
the  free  market,  with  its  higher  exchange  rate,  rather  than  in  the 
official  market.  As  a  result,  the  records  did  not  reflect  actual  in- 
come, which  was  believed  to  be  much  higher.  Tourism  income  had 
risen  fairly  steadily,  and  was  forecast  to  reach  about  £E1.17  bil- 
lion in  1988,  placing  it  next  to  the  Suez  Canal  as  a  source  of  for- 
eign exchange,  or  fourth  among  exogenous  resources. 

In  the  1980s,  the  government  initiated  various  measures  to  at- 
tract tourists  and  encourage  them  to  use  official  exchange  chan- 
nels. It  intensified  marketing  efforts  and  added  tourist  offices  to 
its  diplomatic  missions  in  key  countries.  Tourist  sites  were  devel- 
oped in  such  places  as  the  Sinai  Desert.  Since  1985  the  minister 
of  tourism  had  sought  to  privatize  hotel  management  and  to  im- 
prove Egypt  Air  services.  Encouraged  by  both  the  potential  rise  in 
tourism  and  privatization,  several  foreign  companies  won  large  con- 
tracts to  build  new  and  varied  types  of  tourist  centers.  For  exam- 
ple, in  1990  an  Algerian  investment  group  was  completing  a 
US$120-million  development  project  on  1.2  million  square  meters 
at  Al  Ghardaqah  on  the  Red  Sea.  In  the  late  1980s,  applications 
for  permits  to  establish  floating  hotels  on  the  Nile  surged. 

To  lure  tourists  into  exchanging  their  foreign  currency  through 
its  banks,  the  government  lowered  the  official  tourist  value  of  the 
Egyptian  pound  vis-a-vis  the  United  States  dollar.  For  example, 
the  tourist  rate  rose  from  £E0.83  =  US$1  to  £E  1.1 2  to  the  United 
States  dollar  in  March  1984.  In  January  1985  it  went  to  a  flexible 
rate  that  stood  at  £E1.25  to  the  United  States  dollar  in  the  first 
half  of  1986.  Analysts  generally  thought  that  the  tourist  sector,  given 
appropriate  policies  and  incentives,  could  sustain  rapid  growth. 

In  sum,  although  petroleum,  remittances,  the  Suez  Canal,  and 
tourism  were  crucial  resources  to  Egypt's  economy  and  balance 
of  payments,  their  long-term  potential  was  limited.  Oil  prices  fluc- 
tuated, and  Egypt  could  deplete  its  exportable  oil  within  twenty 
to  thirty  years.  The  growth  of  remittances  and  Suez  Canal  revenues 
was  likely  to  be  moderate,  and  although  tourism  could  achieve  high 
growth  rates,  it  had  a  ceiling.  Economists,  therefore,  stressed  that 
sustained  economic  growth  and  development  required  the  expansion 


215 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


and  increasing  productivity  of  the  country's  own  commodity- 
producing  sectors,  especially  industry  and  agriculture. 

Current  Account  Balance 

The  current  account  balance  for  more  than  forty  years — except 
during  the  two  depressions  of  1968  and  1973  following  war  with 
Israel — was  in  the  red,  as  was  the  merchandise  trade  balance,  but 
the  current  account  deficit  was  smaller.  The  accumulated  deficit 
from  1950  through  1967  came  to  £E993  million.  The  first  serious 
jump,  however,  took  place  in  1975,  when  the  current  deficit  rose 
to  US$1 .56  billion  from  US$0.36  billion  the  previous  year,  reflecting 
an  increase  in  imports  because  of  the  oil  boom.  Between  1982  and 
1988,  the  current  deficit  averaged  US$3.6  billion,  or  about  9  per- 
cent of  GDP.  This  occurred  in  spite  of  the  steady  rise  in  income 
from  exogenous  resources.  There  were  years  in  which  the  deficit 
was  lowered  because  of  the  large  inflow  of  foreign  currency,  such 
as  in  1983  when  it  feU  to  about  US$2.4  billion  from  US$3.1  the 
previous  year,  thanks  to  a  rebound  in  remittances,  but  the  overall 
trend  was  for  it  to  rise.  In  1985  the  current  account  deficit  soared 
to  about  US$4.7  billion  or  14.3  percent  of  GDP.  This  deficit  increase 
compelled  the  government  to  impose  restrictions  on  imports  by  tem- 
porarily suspending  the  own-exchange  (that  is,  foreign  exchange 
supplied  directly  by  the  importer  rather  than  through  commercial 
banks;  much  foreign  exchange  in  Egypt  circulated  outside  formal 
channels)  import  system  to  ameliorate  the  deficit.  In  part  as  a  result 
of  policy  and  in  part  because  of  the  lack  of  foreign  exchange,  im- 
ports were  subsequently  reduced,  and  the  deficit  improved.  In  1988 
it  was  slightly  more  than  one-half  of  the  1985  deficit  and  the  equiva- 
lent of  6.6  percent  of  GDP.  Much  pressure  was  being  exerted  on 
the  government,  especially  because  of  the  tremendous  accumulat- 
ed debt,  to  lower  the  annual  deficit  further,  if  not  to  shift  to  a  posi- 
tive balance  of  payments  (see  Debt  and  Restructuring,  this  ch.). 

Capital  Account  and  Capital  Grants 

The  current  account  deficit  was  financed  up  to  the  late  1950s 
from  previously  accumulated  reserves.  As  the  reserves  diminished, 
Egypt  turned  to  external  financing,  which  became  the  principal 
mechanism  for  covering  the  deficit.  Some  of  the  external  financ- 
ing sources  were  nondebt- creating,  such  as  grants  and  foreign  direct 
investment,  whereas  others,  primarily  loans,  led  eventually  to  heavy 
indebtedness.  These  items  appeared  in  the  capital  account  section 
of  balance  of  payments  transactions. 

In  the  late  1950s  and  the  1960s,  capital  grants  came  primarily 
from  Eastern  Europe;  no  reliable  estimates  exist  for  the  period, 


216 


The  Economy 


because  grants  were  often  in  kind  and  the  currencies  of  these  coun- 
tries were  not  convertible.  After  the  October  1973  War,  Egypt  be- 
gan to  receive  large  grants,  mainly  from  Arab  countries,  to  help 
with  reconstruction  and  to  compensate  for  the  drain  on  the  econo- 
my caused  by  years  of  military  preparedness.  In  1974  the  grants 
were  estimated  at  US$1.4  billion,  but  they  declined  in  succeeding 
years  to  less  than  US$100  million  in  1979.  Between  1973  and  1976, 
annual  Arab  grants  averaged  roughly  US$900  million.  Sources  of 
capital  grants  altered  after  the  signing  of  the  peace  accords  with 
Israel  in  1979,  with  OECD  members,  especially  the  United  States, 
replacing  Arab  nations.  Some  data  indicated  that  between  1982 
and  1988  official  capital  grants  averaged  US$903  million  per  an- 
num. Other  estimates  suggested  larger  amounts. 

Military  grants  often  supplemented  economic  grants.  From  the 
United  States  alone,  military  aid  averaged  US$1 .28  billion  per  year 
in  the  period  1984  to  1988  (see  Foreign  Military  Assistance,  ch. 
5).  The  United  States  probably  granted  Egypt  over  the  same  peri- 
od US$953  million  per  year  for  civilian  purposes,  or  about  three- 
quarters  as  much  as  it  gave  for  the  military. 

Capital  grants  were  primary  among  nondebt-creating  sources 
of  external  finance,  but  their  future  was  unpredictable  and  would 
be  influenced  by  political  factors  as  well  as  by  Egypt's  economic 
performance.  Whereas  donor  governments  viewed  grants  as  as- 
sistance, Egyptians  tended  to  see  them  as  mutual  aid  from  which 
donor  governments  reaped  political,  strategic,  and  other  dividends. 
It  was  unlikely,  many  experts  believed,  that  the  United  States  would 
increase  its  grants,  given  its  own  huge  budget  deficit,  irrespective 
of  political  developments. 

Direct  Foreign  Investment 

Foreign  investment  in  Egypt  dated  from  the  nineteenth  centu- 
ry. Relatively  large  amounts  were  invested  in  the  1890s,  with  in- 
vestment peaking  in  1907.  Between  1903  and  1907,  for  example, 
the  cumulative  private  direct  investment  may  have  amounted  to 
£E8.6  million.  The  two  world  wars  and  the  depression  interrupt- 
ed the  process,  and  little  foreign  direct  investment  occurred  dur- 
ing the  nationalist  economic  phase  under  Nasser.  Whatever 
investments  took  place  then  were  essentially  in  the  oil  sector.  In 
1974  they  amounted  to  as  little  as  US$87  million. 

The  picture  changed  in  the  following  years,  in  part  as  a  result 
of  a  new  policy,  embodied  in  Law  Number  43  (of  1974)  for  Arab 
and  Foreign  Capital  Investment  and  Free  Zones.  The  law  sought 
to  provide  incentives  to  investors  in  many  sectors,  including  indus- 
try, land  reclamation,  tourism,  and  banking.  It  offered  concessions 


217 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

on  imports,  profit  transfers,  and  taxation,  as  well  as  guarantees 
against  nationalization,  to  which  foreign  investors  were  particu- 
larly sensitive  because  of  the  sweeping  nationalization  that  occurred 
under  Nasser.  The  law  gave  priority  to  projects  that  promised  to 
generate  foreign  exchange  and  had  advanced  technology  compo- 
nents. A  special  body,  the  General  Authority  for  Investment  and 
Free  Zones,  was  founded  to  supervise  foreign  investment. 

Both  Arab  governments  and  private  investors  responded  quick- 
ly. They  initiated  separate  joint  venture  projects  with  Egypt,  both 
in  the  military  and  civilian,  especially  banking,  sectors.  Arab  and 
other  foreign  business  concerns  were  located  in  the  free  zones  near 
Alexandria,  Cairo,  Port  Said,  and  Suez.  Arab  investments,  how- 
ever, declined  severely  after  the  1979  Camp  David  Accords.  For- 
eign investment  continued  to  go  mainly  into  oil  production  and 
exploration.  By  1981  net  foreign  direct  investment  was  estimated 
at  about  US$1.7  billion,  a  tenfold  nominal  increase  from  the 
US$0.17  billion  of  1970. 

The  picture  stayed  basically  the  same  in  the  1980s.  Oil  and  bank- 
ing absorbed  the  bulk  of  investments.  In  the  late  1980s,  however, 
tourism  attracted  a  number  of  foreign  investment  groups,  and  in 
1989  a  few  major  joint  venture  projects  were  under  way  with  foreign 
firms,  including  a  digital  telephone  exchange  plant  with  Siemens, 
West  Germany,  a  tire  factory  with  Pielli,  Italy,  and  a  baby-food 
processing  plant  with  Nestle,  Switzerland.  According  to  some  esti- 
mates, the  average  annual  foreign  direct  investment  amounted  to 
about  US$255  million  between  1981  and  1988;  according  to  others, 
it  was  considerably  higher.  The  difference  in  estimates  resulted  from 
frequent  lack  of  distinction  in  Egyptian  official  statistics  between 
Egyptian  and  Arab  investment. 

As  of  early  1990,  no  action  had  resulted  from  parliamentary  de- 
bate on  a  draft  investment  law  that  would  synthesize  and  amend  all 
previous  laws.  The  new  draft  law  also  proposed  modifications  in  prof- 
it transfers,  making  them  use  the  highest  exchange  rate  on  the  date 
of  transfer.  The  draft  law  gave  companies  flexibility  in  distributing 
their  capital  between  external  and  domestic  sources  and  left  it  to  the 
discretion  of  the  prime  minister  to  rule  in  specific  situations.  It  also 
exempted  foreign  investors  from  administered  prices  and  the  set- 
ting of  profit  margins;  the  cabinet  would  have  the  right  to  inter- 
vene in  special  cases.  In  the  view  of  some  observers  and  business 
people,  the  new  law  of  itself  was  insufficient  to  attract  investments; 
a  more  significant  factor  would  be  the  easing  of  bureaucratic  hurdles. 

Loans 

Egypt's  borrowing  began  on  a  modest  scale  in  the  early  1960s 


218 


Welder  at  work 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt,  Washington 

after  the  depletion  of  reserves.  In  1970  long-  and  medium- term 
public  loans  (no  figures  were  available  for  private  loans)  totaled 
US$397  million.  Lending  to  Egypt  rose  rapidly  after  the  mid-1970s. 
Up  to  1978,  loans  came  largely  from  Arab  oil-producing  states, 
which  lent  an  average  of  more  than  US$950  million  annually  from 
1975  to  1978.  During  this  period,  the  government  was  also  receiv- 
ing loan  commitments  from  OECD  countries  and  multilateral  or- 
ganizations. These  exceeded  US$1  billion  in  1976.  By  1977  loans 
reached  more  than  US$2.3  billion.  (Unless  otherwise  stated,  all 
loan  figures  in  this  section  are  equal  to  disbursements  minus  repay- 
ments and  include  public  as  well  as  private  lending.)  The  figure 
fell  to  US$1 .7  billion  in  1979,  because  of  the  cessation  of  Arab  aid. 
Since  then  most  lending  has  been  underwritten  by  OECD  nations. 
Between  1979  and  1985,  Egyptian  borrowing  ranged  annually  be- 
tween less  than  US$1 .4  billion  and  slightly  more  than  US$1 .8  bil- 
lion, with  an  average  of  more  than  US$1.6  billion.  Until  1985 
external  borrowing  was  thus  the  chief  source  for  financing  the  cur- 
rent account  deficit. 

The  situation  was  dramatically  reversed  in  1986,  and  annual 
loans  in  that  year  and  in  1987  amounted  to  less  than  US$0.70  bil- 
lion. This  coincided  with  lower  oil  income,  and  was  the  opposite 


219 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


of  what  happened  in  the  mid-1970s  when  oil  prices  as  well  as  lend- 
ing rose.  By  1986  Egypt  faced  serious  debt  problems  and  was 
negotiating  with  the  IMF  and  other  creditors  on  debt  payments 
and  rescheduling  as  well  as  on  economic  restructuring.  The  credi- 
tors were  reluctant  to  continue  providing  credit  unless  an  agree- 
ment were  reached  with  Egypt  on  these  questions. 

Interest  rates  on  foreign  economic  loans  fluctuated.  The  nomi- 
nal rates  for  civilian  loans  ranged  between  5  percent  and  6.5  per- 
cent, averaging  5.6  between  1981  and  1988.  The  real  rates  were 
much  lower,  amounting  to  an  average  of  0.4  percent  over  the  same 
period.  Interest  on  military  loans  was,  by  agreement,  fixed  at  12 
percent  to  14  percent. 

Repayments  increased  steadily.  From  US$764  million  in  1977, 
they  rose  to  their  highest  level  of  about  US$1.54  billion  in  1985 
at  the  rate  of  9.1  percent  per  annum.  This  meant  that  the  actual 
amount  of  funds  injected  into  the  economy  did  not  rise  in  propor- 
tion to  the  increase  in  loan  commitments. 

When  all  the  preceding  sources  of  external  finance — grants,  direct 
investment,  and  loans — began  to  fall  to  levels  insufficient  to  cover 
the  current  deficit,  Egypt  resorted  to  incurring  arrears  in  payments 
to  official  creditors.  The  arrears  were  difficult  to  document  because 
of  the  lack  of  data.  According  to  one  estimate,  the  arrears  may  have 
risen  from  US$131  million  in  1981  to  US$739  million  in  1986.  They 
fell  after  the  May  1987  IMF  agreement  and  the  subsequent  arrange- 
ment with  the  Paris  Club  (the  informal  name  for  a  consortium  of 
eighteen  Western  creditor  countries)  to  reschedule  Egypt's  debts. 

In  addition  to  loans,  Egypt  was  also  able  to  obtain  short-term, 
high-interest  credits  from  firms  that  supplied  commodities  and  ser- 
vices. Egypt  had  resorted  to  these  credits  since  the  mid-1970s  when 
imports  soared.  Disbursements  rose  steadily  and  between  1983  and 
1985  averaged  about  US$1 .86  billion  annually,  ranking  higher  than 
economic  grants.  Repayments,  however,  did  not  keep  up  with  dis- 
bursements and  in  the  late  1980s  fell  into  arrears.  Repayment  de- 
lays of  up  to  eighteen  months  and  more  for  supplier  credits  were 
reported.  Because  of  these  delays  and  the  mounting  overall  debt, 
until  the  signing  of  the  agreement  with  the  IMF  in  May  1987, 
Western  credit  agencies  were  hesitant  to  offer  cover. 

Debt  and  Restructuring 

Ironically,  in  1990  Egypt  found  itself  heavily  indebted  as  it  had 
been  more  than  a  century  previously.  The  practice  of  external  bor- 
rowing began  with  Muhammad  Ali,  who  sought  funds  to  finance, 
among  other  things,  his  ambitious  development  schemes.  Significant 
debt  began  to  build  up  only  in  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth 


220 


The  Economy 


century,  coinciding  with  the  rise  of  the  export  economy.  In  the  1880s, 
Egypt  was  unable  to  repay  its  debts,  and  Britain,  the  main  lender, 
used  this  an  excuse  to  occupy  Egypt  for  the  next  half  century.  The 
debt  was  economically  disastrous  for  Egypt  because  it  consumed 
all  the  surpluses  accumulated  during  and  after  World  War  I,  which 
could  otherwise  have  been  invested  in  economic  development. 

Egypt  emerged  from  World  II,  as  from  World  War  I,  with  sub- 
stantial reserves  resulting  from  the  goods  and  services  it  supplied 
to  the  Allies  and  its  lower  imports  because  of  worldwide  shortages. 
The  reserves  were  kept  under  British  control  until  the  end  of  the 
1940s,  when  Egypt  started  to  use  them  to  finance  imports.  They 
practically  disappeared  in  the  late  1950s,  and  Egypt  again  began 
external  borrowing.  Still,  by  the  late  1960s  debt  was  not  substantial. 

Only  with  the  increased  borrowing  under  Sadat  and  Mubarak 
did  debt  become  the  nagging  problem  it  was  in  1990.  Debt  infor- 
mation was  incomplete,  and  estimates  of  it  varied.  Variations  resulted 
from  the  multiplicity  of  creditors,  the  private  nature  of  some  arrange- 
ments, and  the  exclusion  of  debt  data  from  official  statistics  or  the 
showing  of  lower  figures  in  government  budgets.  Publicly  guaran- 
teed, long-term  debt  climbed  from  more  than  US$3  billion  in  1974 
to  about  US$15.8  billion  in  1980,  or  more  than  fivefold.  During 
the  same  period,  real  GDP  (at  1980  prices)  less  than  doubled,  and 
exports  rose  threefold.  If  short-term  debts  were  considered,  the  gap 
between  the  growth  of  debt  and  that  of  GDP  and  exports  would 
be  greater  (see  table  12,  Appendix). 

In  1988  total  external  debt  was  expected  to  reach  US$46  billion 
or  about  double  the  amount  in  1981 .  As  a  result,  civilian  debt  came 
close  to  GDP  in  1987  and  was  forecast  to  surpass  it  in  1988.  Thus, 
Egypt,  like  many  developing  countries,  entered  the  final  decade  of 
the  twentieth  century  with  burdensome  debt. 

Most  of  Egypt's  debt  was  owed  to  other  governments  or  guaran- 
teed by  them,  especially  when  military  debt  was  taken  into  account. 
For  example,  in  1987  debt  to  private  creditors  was  about  21  per- 
cent of  the  civilian  total,  and  debt  to  multilateral  organizations  was 
about  17  percent  of  the  civilian  total.  Prior  to  the  peace  treaty  with 
Israel  in  1979,  the  largest  creditors  were  Arab  countries;  since  1979 
the  Arabs  were  replaced  by  OECD  members.  In  1987  Egypt  owed 
US$10.1  billion  to  the  United  States.  Of  this  about  US$4.6  billion, 
or  about  23  percent  of  Egypt's  combined  debt,  was  military  debt. 
Within  Egypt  itself,  the  largest  debtor  was  the  government  and  the 
public  sector  generally.  For  example,  public  debt,  apart  from  the 
military  made  up  about  78  percent  of  the  total;  the  rest  was  borne 
by  private  enterprises  and  banks. 


221 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

As  debt  increased,  Egypt  became  vulnerable  to  pressure  from 
creditors  who  wanted  it  to  repay  the  debts  and  restructure  the  econ- 
omy. During  the  1980s,  prolonged,  tug-of-war-like  negotiations 
occurred  between  Egypt  and  various  creditors  represented  by  the 
IMF  and  the  Paris  Club. 

Before  concluding  agreements  with  other  creditors,  Egypt  had 
first  to  win  the  endorsement  of  the  IMF  on  the  soundness  of  its 
financial  position.  In  return  for  a  financial  package  to  ease  repay- 
ment terms,  the  IMF  policy  requires  that  a  government  undertake 
a  macroeconomic  stabilization  program,  known  as  the  IMF  con- 
ditionality,  that  touches  basically  on  every  aspect  of  the  economy. 
The  program  consists  of  two  interlinked  components,  one  exter- 
nal and  the  other  internal.  The  external  component  applies  to  the 
reduction  of  the  trade  deficit,  in  Egypt's  case  through  the  devalu- 
ation of  the  Egyptian  pound  to  make  exports  more  competitive. 
The  internal  component  is  far-reaching  and  aimed  at  minimizing 
the  role  of  the  state  in  the  economic  process.  It  calls  for,  among 
other  things,  appreciable  cuts  in  the  budget  deficit,  elimination  of 
price  controls,  and  the  closing  of  inefficient  public  enterprises  with 
the  ultimate  goal  of  privatization. 

Although  there  was  a  growing  consensus  in  Egypt  on  the  need 
for  reform,  many  interests  conflicted  and  experts  differed  on  the 
best  course.  Because  of  their  colonial  experience,  Egyptians  were 
generally  sensitive  to  having  their  economic  policies  dictated  by 
outsiders.  As  far  back  as  1966,  Nasser  rejected  on  nationalist 
grounds  an  IMF  "background  stabilization  program"  much  more 
modest  than  subsequent  ones. 

The  demand  for  cutting  the  budget,  which  would  have  entailed 
mainly  reducing  the  subsidies  of  basic  commodities,  was  officially 
resisted  as  politically  destabilizing.  Within  the  cabinet  itself,  there 
were  different  voices.  For  instance,  while  the  minister  of  agricul- 
ture supported  dismantiing  price  controls  so  as  to  raise  the  incomes 
of  his  constituency,  the  farmers,  the  minister  of  food  and  supply 
opposed  dismantling  them  on  the  ground  that  lack  of  such  con- 
trols would  hurt  his  main  constituency,  urban  consumers. 

The  fear  of  political  instability  was  not  the  only  reason  for 
resistance  to  restructuring.  Politically  significant  Egyptian  groups, 
including  public- sector  employees,  some  leading  intellectuals,  and 
ruling  party  functionaries,  viewed  with  suspicion  attempts  to  weaken 
drastically  the  role  of  government  and  the  public  sector.  Egypt, 
they  said,  had  a  weak  state  for  more  than  a  century  and  free  trade 
for  an  even  longer  period,  yet  the  country  remained  underdevel- 
oped. They  pointed  to  the  wasteful  economic  behavior  of  the  pri- 
vate sector  during  the  infitah  and  the  way  this  policy  widened  the 


222 


The  Economy 


income  gap  between  rich  and  poor.  Finally,  they  referred  to  the 
successes  of  Japan,  the  Republic  of  Korea  (South  Korea),  and  Tai- 
wan, where  strong  partnerships  between  the  state  and  the  private 
sector  propelled  economic  growth. 

Private-sector  entrepreneurs  themselves  were  little  interested  in 
certain  aspects  of  reform.  They  considered  state  intervention  neces- 
sary in  such  areas  as  tariff  protection  against  foreign  competition, 
stabilization  of  input  prices,  increased  savings,  and  investment  in 
infrastructure.  Although  they  wanted  to  see  less  red  tape  and  the 
simplification  of  investment  procedures,  they  were  able  to  turn  mar- 
ket restrictions  to  their  advantage  through  manipulation.  Their 
relationship  to  the  public  sector  was  often  more  symbiotic  than  ad- 
versarial. For  example,  in  the  mid-1980s  the  poultry  industry — 
which  had  grown  astronomically  since  the  mid-1970s  as  a  result 
of  private  investment  by  entrepreneurs,  government  officials,  and 
military  officers — wanted  the  government  to  ban  egg  imports  and 
to  limit  new  farms  and  emergency  low-interest  loans  to  offset  what 
it  saw  as  market  saturation.  Poultry  farm  owners  resorted  to  a  mas- 
sive slaughter  of  4  to  5  million  chickens  to  dramatize  their  demand. 

In  spite  of  these  constraints  and  because  of  the  economic  difficul- 
ties and  mounting  debt  and  deficit,  the  government  since  the 
mid-1980s  had  no  alternative  but  to  come  to  terms  with  the  IMF 
and  its  creditors.  In  the  negotiations,  disputes  often  centered  on 
the  pace  and  scope  of  restructuring,  not  on  the  need  for  it.  Final- 
ly, after  intense  bargaining  and  pressure  on  the  IMF  by  the  Unit- 
ed States,  which  was  concerned  about  the  impact  of  the  Cairo 
security  police  riots  in  February  1986,  an  agreement  was  signed 
in  May  1987.  The  agreement  was  considered  lenient  by  IMF  stan- 
dards, although  not  by  the  Egyptians.  For  example,  it  involved 
Egypt's  agreement  to  lower  its  budget  deficit  to  10  percent  of  GDP, 
a  ceiling  that  the  government  found  arbitrary.  The  IMF  allowed 
Egypt  to  keep  the  official  rate  of  £E1  =  US$1.43  for  pricing  oil, 
cotton  exports,  and  rice  but  stressed  the  need  for  eventually 
eliminating  the  multiple  exchange-rate  system. 

In  return,  the  government  was  to  obtain  SDR250  million,  or 
about  US$327  million,  much  less  than  the  US$1 .5  billion  standby 
credit  Egypt  had  applied  for  in  1986.  More  important,  the  agree- 
ment paved  the  way  for  an  arrangement  with  Paris  Club  creditors 
to  alleviate  Egypt's  debt.  Toward  the  end  of  May,  the  Paris  Club 
approved  a  ten-year  rescheduling,  with  a  five-year  grace  period. 
The  arrangement  also  covered  arrears  outstanding  at  the  end  of 
1986,  in  addition  to  interest  and  principal  repayments  due  between 
the  beginning  of  1987  and  June  1988  on  all  guaranteed  debts  con- 
tracted before  the  end  of  October  1987. 


223 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

The  government  subsequently  implemented  many  changes,  includ- 
ing raising  energy  and  food  prices,  setting  higher  and  market- 
determined  prices  for  farm  production  with  the  exception  of  cotton, 
and  trimming  budget  and  trade  deficits  (see  The  Role  of  Govern- 
ment, this  ch.).  The  IMF  and  Paris  Club  members,  however,  were 
not  satisfied  with  the  pace  of  reform  and  expressed  their  concern 
that  Egypt  was  delivering  much  less  than  it  had  promised.  Egypt 
wanted  to  extend  the  period  of  arrears  and  payments  on  publicly 
guaranteed  loans  to  the  end  of  1989  instead  of  June  1988  as  was 
stipulated  in  the  1987  agreement  with  the  Paris  Club.  A  new  round 
of  negotiations  began,  and  an  accord  with  the  IMF  was  anticipat- 
ed in  July  1989.  The  deadline  passed  inconclusively,  and  the  mara- 
thon bargaining  was  continuing  in  early  1990. 

Irrespective  of  the  conclusion  of  these  negotiations,  Egypt  en- 
tered the  closing  decade  of  the  twentieth  century  facing  an  enor- 
mous economic  challenge.  Economic  growth  was  unable  to  keep 
up  with  that  of  population,  and  inflation  was  eating  into  the  modest 
income  of  many  Egyptians.  The  government  introduced  uneven 
reforms  in  pricing  and  other  policies,  but  more  effective  reform 
was  needed,  especially  in  the  stagnant  and  outmoded  industrial 
field  and  the  notoriously  inefficient  bureaucracy.  Although  Egyp- 
tian agricultural  yields  were  respectable,  they  could  be  enhanced 
substantially.  Revenues  from  oil,  the  Suez  Canal,  workers'  remit- 
tances, and  tourism — the  main  sources  of  foreign  currency — were 
expected  to  grow,  if  at  all,  at  low  rates.  Egypt  had  to  propel  its 
agriculture  and  industry  forward  if  it  were  to  achieve  a  self-sustain- 
ing growth  and  feed  and  create  jobs  for  a  rapidly  growing  popu- 
lation. 

*    *  * 

Basic  data  on  the  Egyptian  economy  are  available  in  the  English- 
language  editions  of  the  annual  Statistical  Yearbook  of  the  Central 
Agency  for  Public  Mobilization  and  Statistics  and  the  more  care- 
fully produced  quarterly  Economic  Bulletin  of  the  National  Bank  of 
Egypt.  The  World  Bank's  wealth  of  statistics  on  the  structure  of 
the  economy  are  summed  up  in  the  annual  World  Tables.  The  In- 
ternational Monetary  Fund's  publication,  Directions  of  International 
Trade,  is  a  good  source  for  trade  statistics,  as  is  its  International  Finan- 
cial Statistics  for  finance.  Information  on  agriculture  is  available  in 
the  Production  Yearbook  of  the  United  Nations  Food  and  Agricul- 
ture Organization. 

Two  of  the  most  concise  and  insightful  sources  on  the  contem- 
porary Egyptian  economy  are  The  Egyptian  Economy,  1952-72  by 


224 


The  Economy 


Robert  Mabro,  and  Foreign  Trade  Regimes  and  Economic  Development 
by  Bent  Hansen  and  Karim  Nashashibi.  The  latter  covers  the  post- 
World  War  II  period  until  the  late  1960s.  Mahmoud  Abdel-Fadil's 
The  Political  Economy  of  Nasserism  gives  a  rigorous  analysis  of  the 
economy,  especially  employment,  during  Nasser's  presidency.  Un- 
fortunately, no  similar  sources  exist  for  the  Sadat  or  Mubarak  peri- 
ods. The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat  by  John  Waterbury  is  considered 
the  basic  text  for  the  1952-80  political  economy. 

Several  books  offer  treatment  of  specific  sectors.  Industrializa- 
tion is  discussed  insightfully  in  The  Industrialization  of  Egypt,  1939-73 
by  Robert  Mabro  and  Samir  Radwan.  A  synthesis  of  the  modern 
history  of  Egyptian  agriculture  is  given  in  Egypt 's  Agricultural  De- 
velopment, 1800-1980  by  Alan  Richards.  The  World  Bank  issues 
occasional  policy-oriented  studies;  one  of  the  most  comprehensive 
is  Trade,  Exchange  Rate,  and  Agricultural  Pricing  Policies  in  Egypt  (2 
volumes)  by  Jean-Jacques  Dethier.  This  work  also  offers  a  wealth 
of  statistics  for  the  period  between  1960  and  1985. 

Journalistic  updates  on  the  state  of  the  Egyptian  economy  are 
available  in  special  reports  issued  by  three  London-based  periodi- 
cals: Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  Country  Report:  Egypt;  Financial 
Times;  and  Middle  East  Economic  Digest.  Finally,  the  Egyptian  Arabic 
language  weekly,  AlAhram  al  Iqtisadi  is  an  indispensable  source  on 
the  economic  debate  within  Egypt  itself.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


225 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Mycerinus  (Menkure)  and  queen,  Giza,  ca.  2500  B.  C. 


THE  MODERN  EGYPTIAN  STATE  is  the  product  of  a  histori- 
cally rooted  political  culture  and  of  the  state-building  efforts  of  its 
founding  leaders,  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser  and  Anwar  as  Sadat.  Egypt 
has  been  governed  by  powerful  centralized  rule  since  ancient  times, 
when  the  management  of  irrigated  agriculture  gave  rise  to  the  pha- 
raohs,  absolute  god-kings.  This  experience  produced  a  propensity 
toward  authoritarian  government  that  has  persisted  into  modern 
times.  Although  the  contemporary  Egyptian  state  remained  in 
essence  authoritarian,  such  rule  was  not  accepted  unconditional- 
ly. Its  legitimacy  depended  on  adherence  to  certain  public  expec- 
tations. Egypt's  centuries  of  subordination  to  foreign  rule,  its  long 
struggle  for  independence,  and  its  continuing  dependency  on  other 
countries  generated  a  powerful  nationalism  that  made  national 
legitimacy  crucial  to  the  acceptance  of  the  authoritarian  state. 
Moreover,  after  the  Arab  invasion  in  the  seventh  century  A.D., 
many  expected  the  state  to  rule  on  behalf  of  the  true  faith  and  com- 
munity and  according  to  Islamic  norms  of  justice;  as  a  result,  the 
state  sought  to  legitimize  itself  in  Islamic  terms.  Finally,  in  more 
recent  years,  the  spread  of  political  consciousness  put  rulers  under 
growing  pressure  to  accommodate  demands  for  participation. 

The  1952  Revolution  against  the  traditional  monarchy,  led  by 
Gamal  Abdul  Nasser's  group  of  nationalist-reformist  Free  Officers, 
gave  birth  to  the  contemporary  republic.  Nasser  forged  the  new 
state,  suppressing  the  rudiments  of  pluralism  and  creating  a 
president-dominated,  military-led  authoritarian  bureaucratic  re- 
gime with  a  single  party  and  a  subordinated  parliament,  press,  and 
judiciary.  Nasser's  charismatic  leadership  and  the  populist  achieve- 
ments of  the  1952  Revolution — particularly  land  reform,  social  wel- 
fare, and  a  nationalist  foreign  policy — legitimized  the  new  regime. 
Nasser  gave  the  state  a  broader  base  of  support  than  it  had  hither- 
to enjoyed,  a  base  that  embraced  a  populist  coalition  of  the  army, 
the  bureaucracy,  the  middle  class,  and  the  masses. 

Nasser's  successor,  Anwar  as  Sadat,  adapted  the  state  to  a  "post- 
populist"  era.  The  major  vulnerabilities  of  the  Nasser  regime  were 
its  lack  of  strong  support  among  the  Egyptian  landed  and  busi- 
ness classes  and,  after  the  1967  defeat  by  Israel,  its  alienation  from 
the  United  States,  the  superpower  whose  support  was  needed  to 
resolve  the  conflict  with  Israel.  Although  Sadat  assumed  power  as 
Nasser's  vice  president  and  was  a  veteran  of  the  revolution,  he  soon 
reoriented  the  policies  of  the  state  to  reconcile  it  with  the  need  for 


229 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

support  from  the  Egyptian  middle  class  and  for  a  good  relation- 
ship with  the  United  States.  While  retaining  the  essential  structures 
of  the  Nasserist  state,  he  carried  out  a  limited  political  liberaliza- 
tion and  an  economic  and  diplomatic  infitah  (opening  or  open  door; 
see  Glossary)  to  the  West.  This  shifted  the  state's  base  of  support 
from  reliance  on  Nasser's  populist  coalition  to  a  reliance  on  the 
landed  and  business  classes  internally  and  an  American  alliance 
externally.  The  political  system  remained  essentially  authoritari- 
an but  with  a  greater  tolerance  of  political  pluralism  than  under 
Nasser;  thus,  parliament,  opposition  parties,  interest  groups,  and 
the  press  all  enjoyed  greater,  though  still  limited,  freedom. 

Husni  Mubarak,  Sadat's  vice  president,  inherited  power  on  the 
basis  of  constitutional  legitimacy  at  Sadat's  death.  He  consolidated 
Sadat's  limited  political  liberalization  and  maintained  the  major 
lines  of  Sadat's  policies  while  trying  to  overcome  some  of  their  ex- 
cesses and  costs. 

As  revolutionary  legitimacy  was  eclipsed  by  the  passage  of  time,  the 
legal  powers  enshrined  in  the  Constitution  of  1971  became  a  more 
important  source  of  legitimacy.  The  Constitution,  a  descendant 
of  the  1956  constitution  drafted  under  Nasser,  largely  reinforced 
authoritarian  traditions.  It  established  a  mixed  presidential-par- 
liamentary-cabinet system,  but  the  president  is  constitutionally  the 
center  of  power.  The  president  is  supreme  commander,  declares 
war,  concludes  treaties,  proposes  and  vetoes  legislation,  and  may 
rule  through  decree  under  emergency  powers  that  have  been  regu- 
larly delegated  by  parliament.  He  appoints  the  prime  minister  and 
the  cabinet,  which  may  issue  "decisions"  having  the  force  of  law. 
Under  the  Constitution,  the  People's  Assembly  has  the  power  to 
legislate  and  to  nominate  the  president,  and  other  branches  of 
government  are  responsible  to  the  assembly.  But  it  has  never  effec- 
tively exercised  these  constitutional  checks  on  the  executive. 

The  Dominant  Executive  and  the  Power  Elite 

The  Presidency 

The  presidency  is  the  command  post  of  Egypt's  dominant  ex- 
ecutive branch  of  government  and  the  linchpin  of  the  political  elite. 
Nasser  established  and  assumed  the  office,  endowing  it  with  broad 
legal  powers  and  with  his  personal  charisma.  He  made  it  the  most 
institutionalized  part  of  the  political  system,  against  which  all  other 
elite  institutions — party,  parliament,  press,  even  the  military — have 
proved  impotent.  The  Constitution  of  1971  gives  legal  expression 
to  this  reality,  vesting  vast  executive  authority  in  the  president. 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


Succession  procedures  for  the  transfer  of  presidential  power  ap- 
peared relatively  institutionalized  since  Nasser.  The  incumbent  vice 
president  has  twice  succeeded  to  the  presidency.  In  each  case  the 
vice  president  was  a  military  officer;  thus,  the  line  of  succession 
stayed  within  the  institution  that  founded  the  republic.  Formally, 
a  single  presidential  candidate  was  nominated  by  parliament  and 
confirmed  by  (unopposed)  national  plebiscite.  In  practice,  behind- 
the-scenes  intraelite  politics  determined  the  outcome.  Sadat  was 
expected  to  be  nominal  head  of  a  collective  leadership  and  had  to 
defeat  a  coalition  of  Nasser's  left-wing  Free  Officer  lieutenants  to 
assume  full  control  of  the  office.  The  backing  of  most  of  the  profes- 
sional military  and  of  senior  bureaucrats  recruited  from  upper-class 
families  was  important.  But  the  legality  with  which  Nasser  had  en- 
dowed the  office  itself  was  critical  to  Sadat's  victory;  it  was  Sadat's 
legal  prerogative  that  allowed  him  to  purge  his  opponents  from  their 
state  offices  and  that  rallied  the  army  in  support  of  him.  Sadat  made 
Husni  Mubarak,  an  air  force  officer  who  had  distinguished  him- 
self in  the  October  1973  War,  his  vice  president.  Although  politi- 
cally inexperienced,  Mubarak  grew  in  the  job.  On  Sadat's  death, 
the  political  elite  closed  ranks  behind  him,  and  a  smooth  succes- 
sion took  place.  Mubarak's  1987  reelection  manifested  the  con- 
tinued institutionalization  of  presidential  authority.  Mubarak  did 
not  appoint  a  vice  president,  perhaps  reluctant  to  designate  a  suc- 
cessor and  possible  rival  so  early  in  his  presidency.  Had  a  succes- 
sion crisis  arisen,  there  would  have  been  no  obvious  successor. 

The  president  has  broad  constitutional  powers.  The  president 
appoints  vice  presidents,  prime  ministers,  and  the  Council  of 
Ministers — the  cabinet  or  "government."  He  enjoys  a  vast  pow- 
er of  patronage  that  makes  legions  of  officials  beholden  to  him  and 
ensures  the  loyalty  and  customary  deference  of  the  state  appara- 
tus. Presidential  appointees  include  army  commanders,  the  heads 
of  the  security  apparatus,  senior  civil  servants,  heads  of  autono- 
mous agencies,  governors,  newspaper  editors,  university  presidents, 
judges,  major  religious  officials,  and  public  sector  managers. 
Through  the  Council  of  Ministers,  over  which  he  may  directly  pre- 
side, the  president  commands  the  sprawling  state  bureaucracy  and 
can  personally  intervene  at  any  level  to  achieve  his  objectives  if 
the  chain  of  command  proves  sluggish.  Because  the  levers  of  macro- 
economic  policy — banks,  the  budget,  and  the  large  public  sector — 
are  under  government  control,  broad  responsibility  for  running 
the  economy  is  within  the  presidential  domain.  This  responsibili- 
ty carries  with  it  heavy  burdens,  because  as  head  of  the  state  the 
president  is  expected  to  provide  for  the  welfare  of  the  vast  num- 
bers of  people  dependent  on  it. 


231 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

A  large  presidential  bureaucracy,  managed  by  a  ministerial  level 
appointee,  is  a  personal  instrument  of  control  over  the  wider 
bureaucracy.  It  is  made  up  of  personal  advisers,  troubleshooters, 
and  lieutenants  with  specialized  supervisory  functions.  Under  Nas- 
ser it  had  bureaus  for  intelligence,  economic  planning,  presiden- 
tial security,  administrative  control,  and  foreign  affairs.  Under 
Sadat  it  swelled  into  a  small  bureaucracy  made  up  of  about  4,000 
functionaries,  many  of  them  supporting  the  elaborate  entourage 
and  presidential  household  he  created.  Stretching  out  from  this 
presidential  bureaucracy  are  a  multitude  of  presidentially  appointed 
specialized  national  councils  for  production,  social  affairs,  science, 
and  the  like,  which  bring  the  state  and  interest  groups  together 
under  presidential  patronage  and  expand  presidential  influence  into 
every  branch  of  society  (see  fig.  6). 

The  president  bears  primary  responsibility  for  defense  of  the 
country  and  is  the  supreme  commander  of  the  armed  forces.  Hav- 
ing, to  date,  always  been  an  ex-officer,  he  typically  enjoys  personal 
influence  in  the  military.  He  presides  over  the  National  Security 
Council,  which  coordinates  defense  policy  and  planning,  and  he 
may  assume  operational  command  in  time  of  war.  He  may  declare 
war  with  the  approval  (in  practice  automatically  given)  of  the  parlia- 
ment, conclude  treaties,  and  issue  decrees  on  national  security  af- 
fairs. Foreign  policy  is  a  "reserved  sphere"  of  the  presidency. 
Presidents  have  typically  been  preoccupied  with  foreign  policy  and 
have  personally  shaped  it. 

Finally,  the  president  is  chief  legislator,  the  dominant  source  of 
major  policy  innovation.  The  president  can  legislate  by  decree  dur- 
ing "emergencies,"  a  condition  loosely  defined,  and  when  parlia- 
ment is  not  in  session.  He  can  also  put  proposals  to  the  people  in 
plebiscites  that  always  give  such  propositions  overwhelming  ap- 
proval. Finally,  the  president  normally  controls  a  docile  majority 
in  parliament,  which  regularly  translates  his  proposals  into  law. 
His  control  of  parliament  stems  from  his  ability  to  dismiss  it  at  will 
and  from  his  leadership  of  the  ruling  party  that  dominates  parlia- 
ment. He  also  enjoys  a  legislative  veto. 

The  President  and  the  Power  Elite 

The  actual  use  of  presidential  power  has  evolved  through  the 
changing  relationship  between  the  chief  executive  and  the  rest  of 
the  power  elite.  The  style  of  presidential  leadership  determined  how 
the  president  controlled  the  elite.  Nasser  headed  and  ruled  through 
a  tightly  knit  team  of  officer-revolutionaries  with  a  certain  shared 
vision.  Moreover,  as  a  charismatic  leader  with  wide  popular  sup- 
port, he  stood  above  and  balanced  off  the  elites  and  frequently  used 


232 


Government  and  Politics 


his  popular  support  to  curb  them.  Thus,  he  was  able  to  make  the 
presidency  a  highly  activist,  interventionist  office  in  the  service  of 
a  revolution  from  above  that  ran  roughshod  over  the  interests  of 
the  dominant  classes.  He  did  have  to  contend  with  a  certain  intra- 
elite  rivalry.  The  other  senior  Free  Officers  who  had  helped  him 
make  the  revolution  were  entitled  to  be  consulted  in  decision  mak- 
ing; many  of  them  served  as  powerful  vice  presidents,  overseeing 
ministers  in  various  sectors  of  government  activity.  Field  Marshal 
Abdul  Hakim  Amir,  Nasser's  close  colleague  and  the  number- two 
man  in  the  regime,  came  close  to  making  the  army  his  personal 
"fiefdom."  But  in  the  end,  those  who  challenged  Nasser  were 
purged,  and  generally  he  enjoyed  nearly  unquestioned  presiden- 
tial authority. 

Sadat  transformed  the  charismatic,  activist  presidency  into  a  sort 
of  "presidential  monarchy."  His  formation  of  a  kind  of  "royal 
family"  of  influential  relatives  in  his  entourage;  the  traditional 
legitimacy  he  resurrected;  the  essentially  conservative  objectives 
of  his  policies;  and  the  use  of  clientelism  and  corruption,  traditional 
techniques  of  rule  all  amounted  to  a  traditionalization  of  authority. 
The  main  issue  of  intraelite  politics  under  Sadat  was  resistance  in- 
side the  establishment  to  the  president's  drive  to  reverse  many  of 
Nasser's  policies.  The  popular  support  won  in  the  October  1973 
War  gave  Sadat  a  free  hand  during  the  crucial  period  of  redirec- 
tion (1974-76).  He  also  built  a  strong  client  network  of  politicians 
allowed  to  enrich  themselves  by  often  illicit  manipulations  of  the 
economic  opening  his  policies  afforded  and,  hence,  they  had  a  big 
stake  in  his  course.  His  shrewd  patrimonial  (see  Glossary)  manipu- 
lations— the  constant  rotation  of  elites  in  and  out  of  office  while 
playing  them  against  each  other — also  helped  him  dominate  the 
elite.  The  authoritarian  political  structure  was  crucial  to  Sadat's 
enterprise;  the  regime,  lacking  traditions  of  mass  participation, 
largely  kept  the  major  decisions  inside  elite  circles  where  the  presi- 
dency was  the  dominant  force. 

Sadat's  support  also  rested  on  a  kind  of  tacit  "social  contract" 
with  his  elite  and  upper-class  supporters  under  which  he  had  to 
curb  the  arbitrary  power  of  the  state  and  the  presidency.  On  the 
one  hand,  Sadat  retained  freedom  in  foreign  policy,  where  per- 
sonal impulses  often  seemed  to  override  professional  advice  and 
the  ultimate  powers  of  the  authoritarian  presidency  were  never 
overtly  challenged.  On  the  other  hand,  Sadat  relaxed  the  state's 
control  over  society  and  the  political  arena  and  curbed  the  inter- 
ventionist role  the  presidency  had  played  under  Nasser.  Although 
Sadat  retained  the  last  word,  he  refrained  from  intervening  in  many 
domestic  policy  matters,  allowing  the  bourgeoisie  growing  scope 


233 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


II 

l-  O  n 
<  uj  9. 

Z  CO  0 


d  O  > 

sis 

o  <  < 


; 

o 

< 

DC 

O 

1- 

< 

IDEN 

BURE 

co 

-i 

hi 

< 

cc 

P- 

z 

m 

o 

CO 

LU 

CC 

c 

CO 

cc 

CC 

111 

LU 

H 

H 

CO 

(0 

z 

z 

s 

u. 

s 

o 

LU 

_l 

E 

NCI 

a 

no 

o 

ui  g 

>  UI 


?  <75 


LU  — I  CO 

N  <  d 

□  z  o 

<  O  Z 

o  b  2 

uj  <  O 

£  z  o 

co 


5£ 


>  CC 
DC  O 
{7U.CC 
-  O  ui 


l| 

o 
a 


co 

UJ  UI 

9  E 

>  H 

DC  CO 

111  5 

CO  = 


UI 

u 

si 


9  t 

UJ  5 


CO 

?  ui  S 

o  o 
o 


O  z  w 

>  g  gc 

E  ui  < 

cc  u. 

Z  u.  < 
E 


<  o 

11 

—J  UJ 
Q.  CO 

a 


_l 

o 

>- 

z 

-J 

1- 

no 

CD 
2 

z 

o 

UJ 

CO 

UI 

IVE  < 

AM 

AS 

RLI 

i- 
< 
H 

E'S 

< 

_l 

_i 

Dl 

a. 

CO 

O 

z 

UI 

o 

CL 

o 

z  h  a 
□  cc  a 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


to  advance  its  interests.  Thus,  a  hybrid  of  traditional  and  legal- 
rational  authority  emerged:  a  presidential  monarchy  presiding  over 
a  power-sharing  alliance  between  the  state  and  its  bourgeois  con- 
stituency. Sadat's  patrimonial  excesses  and  his  occasionally  arbi- 
trary imposition  of  major  policies  retarded  the  consolidation  of 
this  power-sharing  experiment,  but  it  was  institutionalized  under 
his  successor. 

Under  Mubarak,  the  authoritarian  presidency  remained  the  cen- 
terpiece of  the  state,  although  he  was  a  less  dominant  figure  than 
his  predecessors.  He  did  not  create  an  elite  core  comparable  in  pow- 
er to  the  ones  they  created;  he  lacked  the  mission  and  revolution- 
ary comrades  of  a  Nasser  and  the  patronage  network  of  a  Sadat. 
Indeed,  he  came  to  power  amid  at  least  two  power  centers,  the 
military  and  the  "Sadatists"  in  the  elite.  Although  he  lessened  his 
dependence  on  them  by  bringing  in  conservative  Nasserites,  back- 
ing technocratic  elements  in  the  bureaucracy,  and  encouraging  the 
political  opposition,  he  carried  out  no  massive  purge  of  the  elite. 

Mubarak  has  used  his  power  in  the  least  activist  way  of  Egypt's 
three  presidents.  In  contrast  to  Nasser  and  Sadat  who  sought  to  re- 
shape Egypt,  Mubarak  sought  stability  and  incremental  change  and 
lacked  the  ideological  vision  and  political  will  to  tackle  boldly  the 
country's  intractable  problems.  Much  more  than  his  predecessors, 
Mubarak  governed  by  intraelite  consensus,  a  cautious  balancing 
of  contrary  pressures  and  demands.  He  also  delegated  considera- 
ble authority  to  his  ministers;  indeed,  he  sometimes  remained  above 
the  fray,  refraining  from  personally  identifying  with  or,  in  the  face 
of  opposition,  strongly  backing  some  of  his  own  government's  poli- 
cies. In  the  running  of  government,  a  pragmatic  managerial  style 
stressing  legality  and  technocracy  replaced  the  patrimonialism  and 
personalism  of  Sadat's  rule.  Foreign  policy,  made  in  consultation 
with  professional  diplomats,  was  no  longer  the  victim  of  presiden- 
tial impulse.  In  some  ways,  Mubarak's  caution  made  him  a  man 
appropriate  to  a  time  of  rising  constraints  on  state  power.  Having 
no  "mission"  comparable  to  that  of  Nasser  or  Sadat,  Mubarak 
could  afford  to  be  more  tolerant  of  opposition,  and  because  his 
legitimacy  rested  squarely  on  legality,  he  had  a  greater  interest  in 
respecting  the  law.  The  scope  of  presidential  power  clearly  nar- 
rowed, but,  being  less  threatening,  this  power  was  also  less  chal- 
lenged than  under  Nasser  and  Sadat.  Indeed,  Mubarak's  personal 
integrity  and  genuine  commitment  to  limited  democratization  made 
him  the  most  widely  acceptable  leader  in  a  regime  enjoying  little 
popular  trust. 


235 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


The  Prime  Minister,  the  Council  of  Ministers,  and  the  Policy- 
making Process 

The  prime  minister  is  the  president's  primary  lieutenant,  charged 
with  implementing  his  policies  through  the  bureaucracy.  Although 
the  prime  minister  and  his  cabinet  are  formally  accountable  to 
parliament  and  are  expected  to  submit  to  legislative  questioning, 
they  were,  in  practice,  appointed  and  removed  by  the  president, 
not  by  parliament.  Under  Nasser,  when  key  Free  Officers  headed 
strategic  ministries,  the  cabinet  was  a  center  of  some  power,  but 
subsequently  it  became  merely  the  staff  of  the  president.  Although 
the  president  might  preside  over  cabinet  meetings,  the  cabinet  was 
not  a  collegial  decision-making  body;  instead,  the  president  tend- 
ed to  make  key  decisions  in  ad  hoc  consultations  with  ministers 
and  advisers  in  a  given  issue  area. 

Egypt's  policy-making  process  was  very  much  dominated  by  the 
executive  branch,  and  the  heart  of  the  process  was  the  interaction 
between  the  presidency  and  the  Council  of  Ministers.  This  top  ex- 
ecutive level  decided  on  all  policy  proposals,  whether  they  origi- 
nated in  the  bureaucracy,  with  influential  personalities,  or  with 
interest  groups.  It  was  also  the  arena  in  which  all  major  political 
decisions  were  made,  relatively  free  from  institutionalized  con- 
straints or  pressure  from  other  parts  of  the  political  system  or  the 
public.  Major  policy  innovations  were  typically  launched  by  the 
president,  perhaps  under  the  influence  of  close  personal  advisers 
or  the  pressure  of  a  major  problem  or  crisis  and  most  likely  after 
consultation  with  ministerial  experts.  Particularly  when  a  major 
policy  decision  was  in  the  making,  the  president  might  encourage 
opinion  groups  to  develop  in  the  cabinet.  These  groups  would  ad- 
vocate different  policy  options,  but  although  the  policies  might  seri- 
ously affect  different  segments  of  society,  the  opinion  groups  were 
not  really  representatives  of  those  segments.  Moreover,  the  presi- 
dent had  the  first  and  the  last  word  in  deciding  among  the  groups. 

The  cabinet  itself  was,  nevertheless,  an  arena  of  intraelite  poli- 
tics because  presidents,  engrossed  in  major  political  decisions,  often 
left  the  day-to-day  business  of  government  to  their  ministers,  in- 
tervening only  to  give  general  instructions  or  when  something  went 
wrong.  Such  mid-level  policy  making  might  be  set  in  motion  by 
the  proposals  of  individual  ministries,  often  generated  by  high  civil 
servants  or  even  by  the  interests  of  persons  associated  with  a  par- 
ticular ministry,  such  as  public  sector  managers  or  the  various 
professional  syndicates.  These  proposals  might  set  off  factional  bar- 
gaining within  the  cabinet  and  high  bureaucracy.  Elite  factions 
might  take  the  form  of  shillas,  small  groups  bound  by  friendship 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


or  family  ties,  heading  client  networks  that  stretched  down  through 
the  bureaucracy  and  competed  for  control  of  offices  and  the  per- 
sonal and  venal  benefits  that  .often  went  with  them. 

Typically,  there  was  a  split  in  the  cabinet  between  presidential 
appointees  and  the  clients  the  prime  minister  brought  on  board. 
In  the  late  1970s,  the  cabinet  was  reportedly  split  between  follow- 
ers of  Vice  President  Mubarak  and  Prime  Minister  Mustafa  Khalil. 
Sometimes  factionalism  took  the  form  of  bureaucratic  rivalries  be- 
tween ministries  over  programs,  resources,  and  jurisdictions;  such 
bureaucratic  struggles  decided  a  good  part  of  "who  got  what"  in 
a  country  where  the  state  sector  was  still  at  the  center  of  the  econ- 
omy. As  societal  interests  became  stronger  at  the  expense  of  govern- 
ment, policy  making  came  more  often  to  take  the  form  of  "trial 
balloons"  in  which  the  government  or  a  faction  of  ministers  tested 
public  reaction  to  an  initiative  and  often  backed  down  if  opposi- 
tion was  too  strong.  If  intraelite  conflict  could  not  be  settled  in  the 
cabinet  or  if  a  ministerial  initiative  invited  excessive  public  reac- 
tion, the  president  was  likely  to  intervene,  perhaps  dismissing  a 
particular  minister  or  faction. 

The  cabinet  was  also  empowered  to  plan,  coordinate,  and  con- 
trol the  work  of  the  ministries  in  implementing  policy,  and  to  fol- 
low up,  evaluate,  and  inspect  policy  implementation.  Toward  these 
ends,  it  was  divided  into  two  layers,  with  an  inner  cabinet  of  deputy 
prime  ministers  responsible  for  coordinating  several  functionally 
related  ministries  in  the  full  cabinet  that  composed  the  outer  lay- 
er. The  independent  Central  Auditing  Agency  was  responsible  for 
financial  control. 

The  Road  to  Power:  Recruitment  and  Composition  of  the  Elite 

Within  the  Egyptian  elite,  a  core  elite  had  even  more  power  than 
the  broader  ministerial  elite.  The  overwhelming  dominance  of 
presidential  power  in  Egypt  meant  that  influence  flowed,  above 
all,  from  closeness  to  the  president;  his  confidants,  whether  they 
held  high  office  or  not,  were  usually  counted  among  the  core  elite. 

Under  Nasser,  these  men  were  fellow  military  revolutionaries 
such  as  Abdul  Hakim  Amir,  Anwar  as  Sadat,  Kamal  ad  Din  Hu- 
sayn,  Abdul  Latif  Baghdadi,  Zakariyya  Muhi  ad  Din,  and  Ali 
Sabri.  Several  prominent  civilians,  such  as  press  magnate  Mo- 
hamed  Hassanain  Heikal  and  industry  czar  Aziz  Sidqi,  also  had 
influence  on  the  president  and  exerted  power  in  their  own  domains. 
But  the  military  clearly  dominated  the  state,  and  most  technocrats 
were  mere  executors  of  policy.  Between  the  1952  Revolution  and 
the  late  Sadat  era,  however,  there  was  a  continual  attrition  in  the 
ranks  of  the  Free  Officers;  many  fell  out  with  Nasser,  many  were 


237 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

purged  by  Sadat  during  the  succession  struggle  with  Ali  Sabri,  and 
others  retired  thereafter.  Of  the  twenty- six  Free  Officers  political- 
ly active  in  1970,  only  eight  were  absorbed  into  Sadat's  ruling 
group,  whereas  a  number  of  others  emerged  as  leaders  of  the  politi- 
cal opposition  to  his  regime,  notably  Khalid  Muhi  ad  Din  on  the 
left  and  Kamal  ad  Din  Husayn  in  the  nationalist  center. 

Under  Sadat  the  top  elite  ceased  to  be  dominated  by  the  mili- 
tary and  was  transformed  into  a  much  more  heterogeneous  group. 
To  be  sure,  certain  old  Free  Officer  colleagues  and  several  top  gener- 
als remained  in  the  inner  circle.  Vice  President  Mubarak  was  a 
member  of  the  inner  core.  Among  other  officers  in  the  top  elite, 
generals  Ahmad  Ismail  Ali,  Abdul  Ghani  al  Gamasi,  and  Kamal 
Hassan  Ali  played  important  and  extended  roles.  But  civilians  far 
outnumbered  the  military.  Prime  ministers  such  as  Abdul  Aziz 
Hijazi,  Mamduh  Salim,  and  Mustafa  Khalil  enjoyed  real  power 
during  their  tenures.  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Ismail  Fahmi  was 
a  close  confidant  of  the  president  until  they  fell  out  over  Sadat's 
trip  to  Jerusalem.  Interior  ministers  such  as  Mamduh  Salim  and 
Nabawi  Ismail  were  key  members  of  the  elite  in  a  regime  plagued 
by  constant  dissidence.  Certain  minister- technocrats  enjoying  in- 
fluence over  key  decisions  or  sectors  belonged  to  the  core  elite; 
among  these  were  Deputy  Prime  Minister  for  Economic  Affairs 
Abdul  Munim  Qaysuni,  long-time  Minister  of  Petroleum  Ahmad 
Izz  ad  Din  Hilal,  and  Minister  of  Power  Ahmad  Sultan.  But  it  was 
men  such  as  Osman  Ahmad  Osman  (also  seen  as  Uthman  Ahmad 
Uthman)  and  Sayyid  Marii  (also  seen  as  Sayyid  Marei),  represen- 
tatives of  the  business  and  agrarian  bourgeoisies,  who  seemed  to 
have  enjoyed  the  most  intimate  confidence  of  the  president,  whether 
they  held  top  office  or  not. 

Osman  was  perhaps  the  second  most  powerful  man  in  Sadat's 
Egypt.  A  multimillionaire  capitalist,  he  and  his  family  presided  over 
a  huge  business  empire  spanning  the  public  and  private  sectors. 
He  held  office  for  a  time,  as  minister  of  reconstruction,  but  his 
relatives  were  in  and  out  of  a  multitude  of  public  offices.  Through 
the  marriage  of  a  son  to  one  of  Sadat's  daughters,  he  was  virtually 
incorporated  into  the  president's  family  and  appeared  to  use  his 
influence  to  favor  business  in  general  as  well  as  his  own  fortunes. 
Another  influential  member  of  Sadat's  "family' '  by  marriage  was 
Sayyid  Marii,  a  technocrat  from  a  landowning  family.  He  had 
presided  over  Nasser's  agrarian  reform,  but  in  the  1970s  he  helped 
steer  Sadat  toward  both  political  and  economic  liberalization.  He 
ran  the  official  party  and  the  parliament  on  Sadat's  behalf  for  ex- 
tended periods  and  was  a  force  behind  the  multiparty  initiative. 


238 


President  Husni  Mubarak 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt, 
Washington 


President  Mubarak  opening 
the  People's  Assembly 
in  the  early  1980s 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt, 
Washington 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Mubarak  tried  to  distance  himself  from  these  core  Sadatists,  and 
many  were  pushed  from  the  center  of  power.  Mubarak's  inner  core 
was  headed  by  two  advisers  in  the  presidency  with  diplomatic  service 
backgrounds.  Usamah  al  Baz,  a  former  diplomat  who  directed  the 
president's  Office  for  Political  Affairs  and  was  reputedly  a  secret 
Nasserite,  or  supporter  of  Arab  socialism,  seemed  to  enjoy  politi- 
cal influence  with  the  president;  Mustafa  Faqi  was  another  close 
adviser.  Ismat  Abdul  Majid's  extended  tenure  as  minister  of  for- 
eign affairs  indicated  that  he  had  the  trust  of  the  president  and  gave 
him  considerable  influence  in  the  foreign  policy  bureaucracy.  Yusuf 
Wali,  a  former  agricultural  bureaucrat,  headed  the  ruling  party 
and  was  Mubarak's  chief  political  troubleshooter. 

After  the  dismissal  of  Kamal  Hassan  Ali,  a  general  of  conserva- 
tive proclivities  who  had  served  Sadat,  Mubarak's  prime  ministers 
were  technocrats  trained  in  economics  and  lacking  personal  politi- 
cal bases.  Ali  Lutfi  was  a  long-time  minister  of  finance,  and  Atif 
Sidqi  was  a  top  state  auditor.  Mubarak  generally  upgraded  the  role 
of  technocrats  in  his  inner  circle  at  the  expense  of  the  ''wheeler- 
dealer"  politicians  of  the  Sadat  era.  On  the  one  hand,  Atif  Ubayd, 
a  minister  of  cabinet  affairs  backed  by  the  United  States,  was 
thought  to  be  prime  ministerial  material  but  was  passed  over;  on 
the  other  hand,  officials  who  served  Nasser  but  were  pushed  out 
by  Sadat  made  a  certain  comeback.  Still,  the  infitah  bourgeoisie 
who  supported  and  benefited  from  Sadat's  rule  remained  power- 
ful in  the  Mubarak  regime,  particularly  entrenched  in  the  inter- 
stices of  state  and  business.  One  sign  of  their  continued  power  was 
their  ability  to  block  attempts  to  legalize  a  Nasserist  party.  The 
continuing  coercive  base  of  the  state  was  reflected  in  three  major 
figures  close  to  the  center  of  power.  Field  Marshal  Abdul  Halim 
Abu  Ghazala  was  long  reputed  to  be  the  number-two  man  in  the 
regime  and  was  said  to  have  been  offered  the  vice  presidency  in 
acknowledgment  of  the  fact.  The  hardline  face  of  the  regime  was 
presented  by  tough  and  disliked  ministers  of  interior,  notably  Has- 
san Abu  Basha  and  Zaki  Badr,  whose  campaigns  against  the  op- 
position contained  elements  of  dissent  yet  drew  the  heat  away  from 
the  president.  Mubarak's  ability  to  dismiss  both  top  army  and  police 
generals  indicated  the  consolidation  of  his  control  over  the  elite. 

Because  the  command  posts  of  the  bureaucracy  were  levers  of 
power  and  patronage  in  Egypt,  the  cabinet  as  a  whole  could  be 
taken  as  the  second  rank  of  the  top  elite,  just  below  the  core  around 
the  president.  Recruitment  into  the  cabinet  remained  the  main  road 
into  the  elite,  and  arrival  there  was  either  an  opportunity  to  build 
power  or  a  confirmation  of  seniority  and  influence  in  the  bureaucra- 
cy or  military.  Moreover,  the  formation  of  the  cabinet  was  a  key 


240 


Government  and  Politics 


opportunity  for  coopting  into  the  regime  important  personalities 
and  interests  from  outside  the  state  apparatus. 

The  change  in  the  composition  of  cabinets  from  the  Nasser  era 
to  the  post-Nasser  period  indicated  a  shift  in  the  paths  to  power. 
Under  Nasser,  the  military,  and  particularly  members  of  the  Free 
Officers,  constituted  a  privileged  recruitment  pool  from  which  stra- 
tegic ministries  were  filled,  although  apolitical  technocrats  recruited 
from  the  bureaucracy  and  the  universities  also  filled  a  significant 
proportion  of  ministerial  posts.  Under  Sadat  and  Mubarak,  the 
military  declined  as  a  main  recruitment  channel  into  the  cabinet. 
Whereas  the  military  supplied  one-third  of  the  ministerial  elite  and 
filled  40  percent  of  ministerial  positions  under  Nasser,  in  Sadat's 
post- 1973  "infitah  governments,"  military  representation  dropped 
to  about  10  percent;  the  percentage  remained  limited  under 
Mubarak. 

It  was  still  possible  for  prominent  officers  to  attain  high  political 
office,  however.  The  minister  of  defense  position,  a  preserve  of  a 
senior  general,  remained  one  of  the  most  powerful  posts  in  the  re- 
gime and  could  be  a  springboard  to  wider  political  power.  Gener- 
al Kamal  Hassan  Ali  moved  from  minister  of  defense  to  minister 
of  foreign  affairs  and  finally  to  prime  minister  under  Sadat  and 
Mubarak.  Perhaps  the  single  most  important  ladder  to  power  un- 
der Sadat  was  the  combination  of  an  engineering  degree  with  a 
career  in  the  bureaucracy  and  public  sector.  Persons  with  such  back- 
grounds made  up  around  one-fourth  of  Sadat's  ministers  after  the 
initiation  of  infitah  and  seemed  to  be  the  chief  beneficiaries  of  the 
decline  of  military  dominance  in  politics.  The  relative  eclipse  of 
the  army  was  also  paralleled  by  the  rise  of  professional  police  officers 
into  the  top  elite.  One,  Mamduh  Salim,  became  prime  minister, 
and  others  wielded  great  power  as  ministers  of  interior  and  ministers 
of  local  government.  Academia  was  an  important  channel  of  recruit- 
ment in  all  three  regimes.  Professionals,  such  as  doctors  and  law- 
yers, and,  increasingly,  private  business  people  became  eligible  for 
recruitment  by  service  in  party  and  parliamentary  politics  and  made 
up  about  one-fourth  of  the  ministerial  elite  in  the  late  Sadat  era. 
Although  the  roads  to  power  diversified  after  Nasser,  access  by  mid- 
dle class  military  officers  probably  narrowed  during  the  period  be- 
tween his  era  of  rule  and  post-Nasser  Egypt,  which  upper-  and 
upper-middle  class  personalities  dominated. 

Elite  Ideology 

A  dominant  ideology  has  generally  bound  the  Egyptian  politi- 
cal elite,  but  its  content  changed  significantly  over  time.  Under 
Nasser  this  ideology  was  revolutionary  nationalism,  but  thereafter 


241 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

the  ideology  of  the  1952  Revolution  was  gradually  replaced  by  a 
new  conservative  consensus  that  reflected  the  interests  of  an  estab- 
lishment with  no  interest  in  further  radical  change.  Sadat  pioneered 
this  ideological  transformation  via  the  October  Working  Paper, 
which  outlined  his  view  of  Egypt's  new  course  after  the  October 
1973  War;  through  a  "de-Nasserization"  propaganda  campaign 
launched  in  the  mid-1970s;  and  by  subsequent  efforts  to  revive  the 
legitimacy  of  capitalism  and  to  justify  his  Western  alignment.  Under 
Mubarak,  Nasser's  heritage  was  symbolically  revered,  but  Sadat's 
revision  of  that  heritage  had  by  no  means  been  reversed. 

Nasserism  was  built  on  Egypt's  opposition  to  "imperialist  in- 
fluence" in  the  Arab  world  and  on  a  belief  in  the  benefits  of  pan- 
Arab  unity.  Nationalism  required  the  creation  of  a  strong  state  with 
a  powerful  military  and  the  mission  of  defending  the  Arab  world 
against  imperialism  and  Zionism.  Under  Sadat,  Arab  nationalist 
challenges  to  Western  interests  and  to  Israel  were  replaced  by  a 
stress  on  cooperation  with  the  Western  powers  and  on  regional 
peace.  For  a  period  in  the  late  Sadat  era  when  Egypt's  separate 
peace  with  Israel  isolated  the  country  from  the  other  Arab  states, 
a  palpable  anti-Arabism  radiated  from  elite  circles.  Sadat  insisted 
that  the  attempts  of  the  Arab  rulers  to  ostracize  Egypt  were  doomed 
because  they  had  no  practical  alternative  to  Egypt's  course  and 
Egypt  remained  the  heart  of  the  Arab  world.  Egypt's  role  was  now 
to  lead  the  Arabs  to  peace,  and  the  treaty  with  Israel  was  a  first 
step  toward  an  overall  just  peace.  Under  Mubarak  the  Nasserist 
vision  of  Egyptian  leadership  of  the  Arabs  was  again  vigorously 
promoted.  But  far  from  being  a  promoter  of  radical  nationalism, 
Egypt  weighed  in  on  the  side  of  moderation  and  stability  in  the 
Arab  world. 

The  elite's  conception  of  the  proper  nature  of  Egyptian  society 
underwent  a  considerable  change  after  the  Nasser  era.  Under  Nasser 
Egypt  was  seen  as  a  revolutionary  society  in  which  the  reduction 
of  inherited  inequalities  was  a  major  ideal.  In  the  economic  sphere, 
Nasser  advocated  Arab  socialism.  This  policy  laid  heavy  stress  on 
state  planning  and  the  public  sector  as  the  engines  of  economic 
development  and  guarantors  of  national  self-sufficiency  and  eco- 
nomic independence.  The  state  also  assumed  responsibility  for  en- 
suring the  basic  needs  of  the  people  and  for  an  equitable  distribution 
of  wealth.  Several  populist  reforms  redistributed  national  resources 
to  the  benefit  of  the  middle  and  lower  classes. 

Under  Sadat  socialism  was  denounced  as  a  vehicle  of  envy  and 
extremism;  instead,  Sadat  promoted  a  traditional  concept  in  which 
society  was  seen  as  an  extension  of  the  patriarchal  family  and  charac- 
terized by  harmony  among  classes  and  belief  in  religion.  In  the 


242 


Government  and  Politics 


economic  sphere,  the  elite  argued  that  the  state  had  assumed  too 
many  responsibilities  at  the  expense  of  private  initiative.  Capitalism 
had  to  be  revived  and  the  public  sector,  no  longer  seen  as  the  cut- 
ting edge  of  development,  had  to  be  reduced  to  a  mere  support 
for  private  enterprise.  Egalitarianism  and  redistribution  were 
thought  to  have  gone  too  far,  to  the  detriment  of  economic  growth. 
Private  initiative  had  to  be  liberated  from  stultifying  state  controls; 
those  who  distinguished  themselves  were  to  be  allowed  rewards  and 
individuals  with  capital  permitted  to  "earn  freely  without  limits." 
The  pursuit  of  self-interest,  formerly  castigated,  was  now  relegiti- 
mized.  Capitalist  development,  it  was  argued,  would  bring  "trickle- 
down"  benefits  for  the  masses  in  place  of  their  dependence  on 
state- supported  programs. 

This  ideological  thrust,  in  part  a  reaction  against  Nasserism,  was, 
however,  tempered  by  a  more  moderate  strain  of  thinking  that 
became  more  influential  under  Mubarak.  The  moderate  view  was 
not  convinced  that  laissez-faire  was  the  cure  to  all  of  Egypt's  ills; 
it  insisted  on  a  continuing  role  for  state  regulation  and  progressive 
taxation  to  curb  the  inegalitarian  tendencies  of  the  market  and  the 
social  conflict  and  political  instability  that  these  tendencies  gener- 
ated. Indeed,  under  Mubarak  a  limited  Nasserist  restoration  could 
be  seen  in  the  return  to  the  concept  of  the  state  as  autonomous 
guardian  of  the  public  interest,  in  the  continuing  defense  of  the 
public  sector,  and  in  a  new  stress  on  bringing  the  excesses  of  the 
infitah  bourgeoisie  under  state  control.  Mubarak  sought  a  balance 
between  liberal  and  statist  factions  in  the  elite,  rejected  calls  to  dis- 
mantle the  public  sector,  and  called  for  an  "equal  partnership" 
between  the  public  and  private  sectors.  Generally,  the  elite  agreed 
on  the  need  to  avoid  both  the  "anarchic  individualism"  of  unregu- 
lated capitalism  and  the  class  conflict  promoted  by  Marxism. 

Finally,  in  the  political  sphere,  Nasser  had  created  a  powerful 
authoritarian  state;  this  concentration  of  power  was  legitimized  by 
the  charisma  of  the  leader  and  the  revolutionary  mission  of  the  coun- 
try. Under  Sadat  the  legitimacy  formula  was  changed.  On  the  one 
hand,  it  was  retraditionalized  as  Sadat  sought  to  infuse  his  office 
with  patriarchal  authority  and  the  aura  of  religion.  He  promoted 
himself  as  the  "believing  president"  and  was  constantly  seen  at 
prayer;  more  and  more,  the  state  sought  to  legitimize  its  authority 
in  Islamic  terms.  But  on  the  other  hand,  both  Sadat  and  Mubarak 
also  sought  to  root  legitimacy  in  constitutionalism  and  democracy. 
Egypt  had  moved,  Sadat  declared,  to  a  state  of  laws  and  institu- 
tions rather  than  to  one  of  people.  Under  Mubarak  democratiza- 
tion became  the  main  legitimacy  formula.  Nevertheless,  it  was 
limited.  The  masses  were  held  not  to  be  prepared  for  full-blown 


243 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


democracy;  lacking  sufficient  responsibility  and  consciousness,  they 
were  susceptible  to  4 'alien"  (leftist)  or  "fanatical"  (Islamist)  ideas. 
Strong  presidential  tutelage,  the  careful  channeling  of  political  dis- 
course through  regime-managed  institutions,  and  limits  on  overt 
attempts  to  "incite"  the  masses  were  needed  for  the  sake  of  social 
peace.  By  the  Mubarak  era,  this  new  conservative  consensus  seemed 
to  bind  the  elite,  effacing  ideological  divisions.  But  the  consensus 
did  not  prevent  elite  rivalries  over  personal  power  or  disagreements 
over  specific  issues. 

Politics  among  Elites 

Military  Politics 

A  major  issue  of  Egypt's  elite  politics  was  the  role  of  the  mili- 
tary in  the  state.  Nasser's  Free  Officers  founded  republican  govern- 
ment and  led  Egypt's  1952  Revolution  from  above.  Presidents 
continued  to  be  ex-military  men.  But  as  Egypt  entered  a  postrevolu- 
tionary  phase,  Sadat  successfully  demilitarized  the  state  and  depoliti- 
cized  the  officer  corps.  Without  losing  control  of  the  military,  Sadat 
was  able  to  change  it  from  the  dominant  leadership  group  in  the 
state  into  a  professional  force  subordinate  to  legal  authority,  radi- 
cally curtailing  its  policy-making  role,  even  in  defense  matters.  This 
change  was  paralleled  by  a  deradicalization  that  ended  the  army's 
role  as  "defender  of  the  revolution"  and  as  defender  of  the  Arab 
nation  against  imperialism. 

Long-term  developments  that  were  maturing  before  Sadat  took 
power  facilitated  his  effort.  As  many  Free  Officers  acquired  wealth 
and  married  into  great  families,  they  were  deradicalized.  If  the  Free 
Officers  had  originally  been  the  vanguard  of  the  rising  middle  class 
against  the  traditional  upper  class,  by  the  late  1970s  senior  officers 
had  become  part  of  a  new  establishment.  Many  officers  blamed 
the  1967  defeat  on  Nasser,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  socialist  mea- 
sures. They  resented  Nasser's  scapegoating  of  the  high  command 
for  the  army's  failures.  In  addition,  because  the  defeat  could  plau- 
sibly be  blamed  on  military  involvement  in  politics,  it  discredited 
the  military's  claim  to  political  leadership  and  enhanced  the  pres- 
tige of  nonpolitical  professional  officers.  Nasser  stressed  professional 
competence  in  the  post- 1967  reconstruction  of  the  army,  and  many 
officers  themselves  became  impatient  with  political  involvement  that 
could  detract  from  the  mission  of  defending  the  front  and  recover- 
ing the  land  and  honor  lost  in  1967. 

The  fall  of  scores  of  politicized  officers  in  the  succession  strug- 
gle with  Sadat — in  particular,  the  group  around  Marshal  Abdul 
Hakim  Amir  after  the  June  1967  War  (Arab-Israeli  war,  also  known 


244 


Government  and  Politics 


as  the  Six-Day  War)  and  the  Ali  Sabri  group — removed  the  most 
powerful  and  politicized  Free  Officers  and  dissipated  remaining 
radical  sentiment  in  the  ranks  of  the  officer  corps.  In  the  succes- 
sion struggle,  Minister  of  War  General  Muhammad  Fawzi  stood 
with  the  leftist  Sabri  faction  and  tried  to  mobilize  the  military  against 
Sadat  by  accusing  him  of  selling  out  to  the  United  States.  Chief 
of  Staff  General  Muhammad  Sadiq  and  the  rest  of  the  top  brass, 
however,  stood  with  Sadat  and  neutralized  Fawzi.  No  doubt  the 
military's  stand  was  affected  by  the  unpopularity  of  Sabri' s  effort 
to  build  up  the  state  party  as  a  counterweight  to  the  military,  his 
identification  with  the  unpopular  Soviet  advisory  mission,  and 
Sadat's  promise  to  reinstate  officers  unfairly  blamed  for  the  1967 
defeat.  But  the  long  tradition  of  presidential  authority  established 
under  Nasser  seemed  the  decisive  factor  in  rallying  the  professional 
military  to  Sadat's  side.  And  this  victory  went  far  to  reinforce  the 
legal  supremacy  of  presidential  authority  over  all  other  state  insti- 
tutions. 

Nevertheless,  Sadat  was  thereafter  embroiled  in  and  won  two 
other  power  struggles  with  top  generals  who  contested  his  defense 
and  foreign  policies.  In  1972  General  Sadiq,  then  minister  of  war, 
seemed  to  challenge  presidential  prerogatives.  Sadiq  considered 
himself  entided,  given  his  role  in  Sadat's  victory  and  his  Free  Officer 
status,  to  a  share  in  decision-making  power.  He  used  rewards,  pro- 
motions, and  the  mobilization  of  anti- Soviet  sentiment  in  the  army 
to  build  a  personal  power  base.  Sadat  viewed  Sadiq  as  a  mere  mem- 
ber of  his  staff  and  saw  his  anti- Soviet  advocacy  and  his  links  with 
Libya's  Colonel  Muammar  al  Qadhafi,  whom  Sadat  deeply  dis- 
trusted, as  encroachments  on  presidential  authority.  Most  serious, 
Sadiq  objected  to  Sadat's  plans  for  a  limited  war  in  Sinai  to  seize 
a  strip  of  land  across  the  Suez  Canal  as  a  prelude  to  negotiations 
with  Israel.  Believing  Egypt  unprepared  for  such  an  ambitious  ven- 
ture, he  argued,  in  a  tense  meeting  of  the  high  command,  against 
any  military  action,  a  course  untenable  for  Sadat.  Sadat's  move 
against  Sadiq  was  a  classic  example  of  his  strategy  of  control  over 
the  military.  He  waited  until  he  had  first  expelled  the  Soviet  ad- 
visers, thus  winning  for  himself  the  acclaim  of  anti-Soviet  elements 
and  taking  the  wind  out  of  Sadiq' s  sails.  He  obtained  the  support 
of  other  top  commanders,  especially  Chief  of  Staff  Saad  ad  Din 
Shazli,  who  had  quarreled  with  Sadiq  over  authority  in  the  high 
command,  rallied  the  field  commanders  by  accusing  Sadiq  of  ig- 
noring orders  to  prepare  for  war,  and  quickly  replaced  Sadiq  with 
General  Ahmad  Ismail  Ali,  a  personal  friend  who  lacked  political 
ambition.  With  the  help  of  these  allies,  Sadat  foiled  a  pro-Sadiq 
coup  attempt. 


245 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Not  long  after,  Sadat  faced  another  challenge,  this  time  from 
General  Shazli.  The  two  men  quarreled  over  the  conduct  of  the 
October  1973  War,  each  holding  the  other  responsible  for  the  Israeli 
breakthrough  onto  the  west  bank  of  the  Suez  Canal.  After  the  war, 
Shazli  was  a  leading  opponent  of  the  decision  to  rely  on  the  Unit- 
ed States  at  the  cost  of  weakening  Egypt's  military  ability  to  take 
action.  Sadat  rallied  the  support  of  other  top  officers  against  Shazli, 
including  then  Minister  of  War  Ismail,  Air  Force  Commander  Hus- 
ni  Mubarak,  and  Chief  of  Operations  General  Abdul  Ghani  Gama- 
si.  Shazli  enjoyed  considerable  support  in  the  military  but  either 
would  not  or  could  not  mobilize  it  before  the  high  command  deci- 
mated his  followers  in  a  wave  of  purges  from  corps  and  division 
commanders  on  down.  While  some  of  his  top  generals  were  in  the 
future  to  disagree  with  Sadat's  policies,  none  would  again  overtly 
challenge  them,  and  when  he  chose  to  dismiss  them,  they  offered 
no  resistance. 

The  army,  however,  was  not  free  of  disaffection.  Some  junior 
officers  who  had  risked  their  lives  in  the  "crossing"  of  the  Suez 
Canal  believed  Sadat  had  sold  out  the  gains  won  on  the  battlefield. 
There  were  recurring  signs  of  Nasserite  and  Islamic  tendencies  in 
the  ranks  thereafter.  But  most  officers  remained  loyal  for  several 
reasons:  the  legitimacy  Sadat  won  in  the  October  1973  War,  in 
which  the  army  had  redeemed  its  lost  honor;  the  realization  that 
the  alternative  to  Sadat  might  be  another  war  in  which  this  gain 
might  be  sacrificed;  and  the  privileges  and  new  American  weapons 
Sadat  lavished  on  the  officer  corps.  The  stake  in  infitah  business 
some  officers  acquired,  the  acceptance  of  professionalism  among 
most  senior  officers,  and  Sadat's  practice  of  rotating  senior  com- 
manders had,  by  the  end  of  his  presidency,  seemingly  reduced  the 
military  from  leaders  of  the  regime  to  one  of  its  main  pillars. 

Under  Mubarak  the  military  remained  a  powerful  corporate  actor 
in  the  political  system,  and  the  case  of  Minister  of  Defense  Abdul 
Halim  Abu  Ghazala  manifested  both  the  power  and  limits  of  the 
military  establishment.  Mubarak  was  initially  less  careful  than  Sadat 
to  rotate  military  chieftains  and  to  balance  them  with  rival  officers 
or  with  strong  civilian  politicians.  As  a  result,  Abu  Ghazala,  an 
ambitious  politicized  and  conservative  general,  appeared  to  establish 
unprecedented  power  and  acknowledged  status  as  the  number-two 
man  in  the  regime.  He  positioned  himself  as  champion  of  arms 
spending,  resisting  all  decreases  in  the  defense  budget  and  push- 
ing for  greater  autonomy  for  the  armed  forces  in  the  political  sys- 
tem. He  widened  the  role  of  the  army  in  the  economy,  making 
it  a  font  of  patronage,  subcontracting  to  the  private  sector,  and 
establishing  close  relations  between  the  Egyptian  arms  industry  and 


246 


Government  and  Politics 


United  States  arms  suppliers.  Abu  Ghazala  also  presided  over  the 
growth  of  privileged  facilities  for  the  military,  a  development  that 
made  him  something  of  a  hero  in  the  ranks.  He  appeared  to  stake 
out  positions  independent  of  the  president,  apparently  objecting 
to  Mubarak's  soft-line  handling  of  the  Achille  Lauro  terrorist  inci- 
dent in  October  1985.  Whereas  the  president  sought  to  step  back 
from  the  close  alliance  with  Washington,  Abu  Ghazala  was  known 
for  his  intimate  connections  to  influential  Americans. 

In  1987  the  army  had  to  be  called  out  when  the  riots  of  the  secu- 
rity police  left  the  government  otherwise  defenseless.  Having  saved 
the  regime,  Abu  Ghazala  seemed  to  have  strengthened  his  posi- 
tion. He  even  carried  influence  in  the  appointment  of  cabinet 
ministers.  But  Abu  Ghazala  lacked  the  crucial  control  over  mili- 
tary appointments  needed  in  order  to  turn  the  army  into  a  per- 
sonal fiefdom;  Mubarak,  waking  up  to  the  danger,  had  by  1987 
positioned  his  own  men  as  chief  of  staff  and  as  minister  of  war 
production.  Perhaps  aided  by  Abu  Ghazala' s  loss  of  United  States 
support  over  an  arms  smuggling  scandal,  Mubarak  had  no  difficulty 
removing  him  from  his  post  in  1989.  Generally,  Mubarak  tried  to 
curb  military  aggrandizement  that  diminished  the  civilian  sector. 
The  professionalization  of  the  officer  corps,  its  tradition  of  respect 
for  legal  legitimacy,  and  the  reluctance  of  an  army  lacking  in  na- 
tional vision  or  ambition  to  assume  responsibility  for  Egypt's 
problems  made  it  unlikely  that  any  top  general  could  carry  the 
officer  corps  in  an  overt  challenge  to  Mubarak. 

The  Politics  of  Economic  Strategy 

The  most  important  decision  taken  by  the  Egyptian  government 
since  Nasser  was  Sadat's  infitah  to  foreign  and  domestic  private  cap- 
ital. While  the  stagnation  of  the  early  1970s  raised  the  issue  of  eco- 
nomic reform,  the  decision  to  implement  infitah  did  not  take  place 
in  a  political  vacuum.  A  number  of  different  elite  factions  prescribed 
different  solutions  to  the  economic  problems.  A  handful  of  Marxists 
favored  a  "deepening"  of  the  socialist  experiment.  Another  small 
group  called  for  a  rapid  move  to  free-market  capitalism.  The  third, 
statist  (see  Glossary)  trend,  led  by  Prime  Minister  Aziz  Sidqi,  stood 
for  a  controlled  role  for  private  and  foreign  capital  compatible  with 
the  dominance  of  the  public  sector.  In  May  1973,  Sadat  dismissed 
Sidqi,  who  was  an  influential  possible  rival  associated  with  the  Nas- 
ser era,  and  before  long  outstanding  leftists,  such  as  Minister  of  Plan- 
ning Ismail  Sabri  Abdullah,  were  also  forced  out.  The  dominant 
thinking  that  emerged  advocated  creation  of  a  new  foreign  sector, 
restriction  of  the  public  sector  to  large  industry  and  infrastructure, 
and  the  opening  of  all  other  sectors  to  private  capital.  Some  of 


247 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Sadat's  closest  confidants,  major  figures  of  the  Egyptian  bourgeoisie 
such  as  Osman  Ahmad  Osman  and  Sayyid  Marii,  played  major 
roles  in  swinging  him  toward  this  option.  The  legitimacy  won  in 
the  October  1973  War  gave  him  the  strength  to  make  this  break 
with  Nasserism. 

Egypt's  state-dominated  economy,  Sadat  declared,  was  too  bur- 
dened by  military  spending  and  bureaucratic  inertia  to  mobilize 
the  resources  for  an  economic  recovery.  But  postwar  conditions, 
namely  the  diplomatic  opening  to  the  United  States  and  the  new 
petrodollars  in  Arab  hands,  presented  a  unique  opportunity  to  spark 
a  new  economic  take-off  combining  Western  technology,  Arab  cap- 
ital, and  Egyptian  labor. 

An  infitah  would  also  consolidate  Sadat's  support  among  the 
Egyptian  landed  and  business  classes  and  among  the  state  elite  who 
had  enriched  themselves  in  office  and  were  seeking  security  and 
investment  outlets  for  their  new  wealth.  In  addition,  Sadat  viewed 
infitah  as  essential  to  winning  United  States  commitment  to  Egypt's 
recovery  of  the  Sinai  Peninsula  from  Israel. 

Abdul  Aziz  Hijazi,  a  long-time  minister  of  finance  and  liberal 
economist  with  links  to  Western  and  Arab  capital,  was  appointed 
prime  minister  in  1974,  charged  with  implementing  the  infitah.  To 
neutralize  resistance  inside  the  state,  Sadat  encouraged  a  "de- 
Nasserization"  campaign  in  which  all  those  who  had  grievances 
against  socialism  publicly  attacked  it  for  having  ruined  the  econo- 
my. As  the  emerging  ills  of  infitah — inflation  and  corruption — 
generated  discontent  over  the  new  course,  Hijazi  was  sacked,  and 
Mamduh  Salim,  Sadat's  police  "strong  man,"  took  over  as  prime 
minister  with  a  mission  to  push  ahead  with  infitah,  overruling  those 
who  were  obstructing  it  and  those  who  were  abusing  it. 

Once  infitah  was  established  as  Egypt's  economic  strategy,  intra- 
elite  conflicts  centered  on  its  proper  scope  and  management.  These 
conflicts  typically  pitted  liberalizing  economists,  who  were  convinced 
that  a  fully  capitalist  economy  would  be  more  efficient  than  an  econ- 
omy incorporating  a  public  sector,  against  more  statist-minded 
bureaucrats  and  state  managers,  who  wanted  to  reform,  rather  than 
to  dismantle,  the  public  sector.  The  latter  were  often  allied  with 
politicians  fearful  of  public  reaction  to  the  rollback  of  populist 
measures  such  as  subsidies  and  public-sector  employment.  One 
major  episode  in  this  conflict  came  in  1976  over  pressures  from 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  and  for- 
eign banks  to  cut  subsidies  and  devalue  the  Egyptian  pound  (for 
value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see  Glossary)  as  necessary  steps  in 
the  liberalization  of  the  economy.  Sadat's  minister  of  economy, 
Zaki  Shafii,  and  his  minister  of  finance,  Ahmad  Abu  Ismail,  fearful 


248 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  consequences  on  the  mass  standard  of  living,  urged  him  to 
resist  pressures  for  rapid  reform.  But  other  economists,  chief  among 
them  Abdul  Munim  Qaysuni,  argued  that  Egypt  could  not  afford 
costly  welfare  programs  if  it  were  to  revitalize  its  productive  bases. 
Top  Western  bankers,  such  as  David  Rockefeller  and  William  Simon, 
urged  Sadat  to  go  beyond  half  measures  if  he  wanted  to  make  the 
infitah  a  success.  Sadat  overruled  his  own  ministers  and  replaced 
them  with  a  new  team  headed  by  Qaysuni,  who  began  to  cut  the 
subsidies.  But  decision  makers  had  misjudged  their  political  en- 
vironment. The  subsidy  cuts  triggered  the  1977  food  riots,  which 
shattered  much  of  the  support  Sadat  had  carefully  built  up.  The 
government  backed  down  and  did  not  again  attempt  such  a  radi- 
cal cut  in  the  social  safety  net  for  the  poor. 

Managing  infitah  remained  the  major  problem  of  public  policy 
under  Mubarak.  Rather  than  producing  a  dynamic  capitalist  al- 
ternative to  Nasserite  statism,  infitah  had  stimulated  a  consump- 
tion boom  that  put  Egypt  in  debt  and  made  it  heavily  dependent 
on  external  revenues,  which  declined  in  the  mid-1980s,  plunging 
the  country  into  economic  crisis.  Mubarak  insisted  that  infitah  would 
be  reformed,  not  reversed,  but  the  government's  freedom  of  action 
was  limited  by  conflicting  domestic  constraints.  The  interests  created 
under  Nasser  remained  obstacles  to  capitalist  rationalization  and 
belt-tightening.  The  public  sector  was  still  the  main  engine  of  in- 
vestment, and  public  sector  managers  and  unionized  labor  tena- 
ciously defended  it.  The  bureaucracy,  employing  a  large  portion 
of  the  middle  class,  was  a  formidable  constituency.  Meanwhile, 
Egypt's  huge  army  had  not  been  demobilized,  and,  indeed,  Sadat 
had  bought  its  acquiescence  to  his  policy  by  replacing  weapons  from 
the  Soviet  Union  with  more  expensive  arms  from  the  United  States, 
for  which  the  military  showed  a  voracious  appetite.  Marshal  Abu 
Ghazala  rejected  demands  by  Prime  Minister  Ali  Lutfi  that  he  pay 
off  Egypt's  military  debts  from  revenues  of  arms  sales  overseas; 
instead  he  plowed  funds  into  subsidized  apartments,  shops,  and 
sports  clubs  for  the  officer  corps.  Populist  "rights"  acquired  under 
Nasser  had  grown  into  a  tacit  social  contract  by  which  the  govern- 
ment provided  subsidized  food  to  the  masses  in  return  for  their 
tolerance  of  growing  inequality.  The  contrast  between  the  conspic- 
uous new  wealth  and  the  mass  poverty  generated  a  moral  malaise, 
making  Egypt's  debt  a  political  issue.  ' '  We're  asked  to  pay  the  debt, ' ' 
chanted  demonstrators  in  1986,  "while  they  live  in  palaces  and  vil- 
las." Thus,  attacking  populist  policies  seemed  likely  to  fuel  Islamist 
political  activism. 

Infitah  had  itself,  however,  created  interests  resistant  to  reform.  A 
larger  and  richer  bourgeoisie  was  unprepared  to  give  up  opportunities 


249 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


for  enrichment  or  to  trim  its  level  of  consumption.  Any  reversal 
of  the  course  that  so  favored  this  class  would  have  cost  the  regime 
its  strongest  social  support.  Indeed,  the  increasing  power  of  the 
bourgeoisie  was  manifest  in  its  successful  veto  of  several  govern- 
ment reform  initiatives.  Prime  Minister  Ali  Lutfi  was  expected  to 
produce  difficult  reforms  but  was  stymied  by  powerful  business  in- 
terests. The  ability  of  the  regime  to  raise  domestic  revenues  to  cope 
with  the  financial  imbalance  was  limited  because  those  who  could 
pay  represented  the  government's  own  support  base.  Thus,  when 
importers  staged  demonstrations  against  increased  customs  duties, 
the  government  rescinded  the  duties,  and  the  ruling  party 
parliamentary  caucus  turned  back  its  own  government's  proposal 
to  tax  lucrative  urban  real  estate  interests. 

Caught  between  rich  and  poor,  the  regime  opted  for  incremen- 
talism.  It  gradually  shaved  subsidies,  replacing  the  one  piaster  (see 
Glossary — about  one  United  States  cent)  loaf  of  bread  with  a  sup- 
posedly better  quality,  higher  priced  loaf;  raising  electricity  prices; 
and  eliminating  subsidies  on  feed  corn.  The  regime  also  partially 
reformed  the  exchange  rate  and  raised  taxes  on  imported  luxuries. 
But,  unable  to  undertake  radical  reform,  it  chiefly  concentrated 
on  negotiations  with  creditors  for  a  rescheduling  of  debts,  lower 
interest  rates,  and  new  loans  to  support  the  balance  of  payments, 
merely  postponing  the  day  of  reckoning. 

The  growing  power  of  the  bourgeoisie  and  the  determination 
of  Mubarak's  state  to  maintain  its  independence  from  this  class 
was  reflected  in  another  case  of  economic  policy  making,  a  battle 
over  control  of  foreign  currency.  The  government  wanted  this  con- 
trol in  order  to  protect  the  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound.  In  1985 
Minister  of  Economy  Mustafa  Said  tried  to  close  down  black-market 
money  changers  who  absorbed  most  workers'  remittances  but  was 
dismissed  when  foreign  currency  dried  up  and  business  demand- 
ed his  head.  In  1986  the  Lutfi  government  fell  because  of  a  bid 
by  the  governor  of  the  Central  Bank,  Ali  Nijm,  to  rein  in  the  Islam- 
ic investment  companies  that  also  dealt  in  foreign  currency.  The 
new  power  of  this  rising  independent  bourgeoisie  resulted  from  its 
ability  to  disrupt  the  economy,  its  payoffs  to  the  press,  and  its  con- 
nections to  the  political  opposition  and  inside  the  elite  itself.  In  1988 
Prime  Minister  Atif  Sidqi  personally  led  the  government's  efforts 
while  the  companies  mobilized  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  (Al  Ikh- 
wan  al  Muslimun;  also  known  as  the  Brotherhood)  and  the  New 
Wafd  Party  in  defense  of  the  private  sector.  Aided  by  financial  scan- 
dals that  damaged  depositor  confidence,  the  government  brought 
the  companies  under  its  regulative  sway,  but  they  retained  con- 
siderable autonomy.  Whereas  Mubarak's  state  was  no  longer  a  mere 


250 


Aswan  High  Dam  made  possible  large  land  reclamation 
and  electric  power  generation  projects. 

Courtesy  Susan  Becker 

champion  of  bourgeois  interests  as  was  the  state  under  Sadat,  neither 
had  it  regained  the  power  over  society  of  Nasser's  days. 

Despite  the  power  of  elites,  they  did  not  operate  in  a  vacuum. 
Many  of  their  decisions  were  reached  in  response  to  economic  pres- 
sures that  sharply  limited  their  options.  They  also  had  to  consider 
the  political  consequences  of  their  decisions.  The  major  change  from 
Nasser's  era  was  that  the  bourgeoisie  acquired  the  capacity  to  ad- 
vance and  defend  its  interests  in  the  system;  the  1977  riots  made 
clear,  however,  that  mass  reaction  must  also  be  included  in  regime 
calculations.  Thus,  while  the  Egyptian  state  remained  essentially 
authoritarian,  decision  makers  could  not  ignore  societal  wishes,  nor 
could  they  escape  environmental  constraints. 

The  Bureaucracy  and  Policy  Implementation 

Egypt's  public  bureaucracy  was  an  enormous  establishment  en- 
compassing at  least  thirty  ministries  and  hundreds  of  public  agen- 
cies and  companies.  There  were  ministries  devoted  to  the  traditional 
tasks  of  governance,  such  as  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  charged  with 
the  maintenance  of  internal  order,  and  the  ministries  of  defense, 
finance,  foreign  affairs,  and  justice.  There  was  also  a  multitude 
of  ministries  charged  with  managing  the  economy  and  promoting 


251 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

development,  such  as  the  ministries  of  economy  and  foreign  trade, 
industry,  international  investment  and  cooperation,  irrigation, 
petroleum,  planning,  power,  and  reconstruction.  Others  provided 
public  services,  such  as  the  ministries  of  culture,  education,  health, 
and  manpower  and  training.  There  was  also  a  vast  public  sector. 
Under  Nasser,  62  public  authorities  and  public  service  organizations 
responsible  to  various  ministries  presided  over  about  600  public 
companies.  Public  authorities  were  holding  companies  coordinat- 
ing profit-oriented  public  sector  firms  of  similar  function,  whereas 
public  service  organizations  were  nonprofit  in  orientation. 

Below  the  politically  appointed  ministers  and  deputy  ministers 
was  the  civil  service.  It  was  ranked  in  six  grades,  the  most  senior 
ranks  being  first  undersecretary,  undersecretary,  and  general 
manager.  Under  the  Nasser  regime,  efforts  to  reform  and  modern- 
ize the  traditional  civil  service  raised  the  professional  qualifications 
of  senior  civil  servants  and  opened  the  service  to  wider  recruitment 
from  the  educated  middle  class.  But  to  curb  favoritism,  seniority 
rather  than  performance  was  made  the  main  criterion  for  advance- 
ment. In  addition,  Nasser  used  the  bureaucracy  to  provide  employ- 
ment for  university  graduates.  The  reform  of  the  bureaucracy  soon 
fell  behind  its  expansion  in  size  and  functions,  making  Egypt  an 
overadministered  society.  Sadat  pared  back  the  state's  control  over 
the  economy  but  failed  to  restrain  the  growth  of  the  state  bureau- 
cracy and  allowed  its  standards  and  efficiency  to  decline.  The 
bureaucracy  mushroomed  from  1 . 2  million  at  the  end  of  the  Nas- 
ser era  to  2  million  at  the  end  of  Sadat's  rule  (20  percent  of  the 
work  force)  and  2.6  million  in  1986. 

The  bureaucracy  had  a  number  of  outstanding  achievements  to 
its  credit.  The  special  ministries  and  agencies  set  up  under  Nasser 
to  build  the  Aswan  High  Dam,  to  carry  out  agrarian  reform,  and 
to  operate  the  Suez  Canal  had  the  budgets  to  recruit  quality  person- 
nel and  carried  out  their  missions  with  distinction.  But  by  the  Sadat 
era,  the  bureaucracy  and  the  public  sector  were  afflicted  with  a 
multitude  of  pathologies  that  made  them  more  of  a  burden  on, 
rather  than  an  instrument  of,  development.  The  Council  of  Minis- 
ters generally  failed  to  provide  the  strong  administrative  leadership 
needed  to  coordinate  the  sprawling  state  apparatus,  and  there- 
fore its  various  parts  often  worked  at  cross-purposes.  Many  mid- 
dle rank  bureaucrats  were  statists  at  odds  with  the  liberalization 
initiatives  from  the  top.  There  was  a  general  breakdown  in  per- 
formance and  discipline  in  the  public  service;  employees  general- 
ly could  not  be  dismissed,  pay  was  dismal  except  at  the  highest 
levels,  and  most  officials  moonlighted  after  putting  in  only  a  few 
hours  each  day  at  work.  The  excessive  number  of  employees 


252 


Government  and  Politics 


charged  with  the  same  job  made  it  impossible  to  distinguish  con- 
scientious officials  from  timeservers.  Under  these  conditions,  lit- 
tle responsibility  could  be  delegated  to  lower  bureaucrats,  and  little 
initiative  was  expected  of  them. 

Infitah-era.  policies  also  enervated  government  planning  and  con- 
trol of  the  public  sector.  Abolishing  the  public  authorities  created 
under  Nasser  as  layers  between  the  ministries  and  public  sector 
firms  was  supposed  to  give  the  latter  greater  freedom  of  manage- 
ment, but  instead  it  brought  a  decline  in  financial  accountability 
without  really  allowing  managers  to  respond  to  a  free  market.  The 
partial  "privatization"  of  public  sector  companies  cost  the  treasu- 
ry. Government  investments  in  joint  ventures  with  the  private  or 
foreign  sector  often  escaped  the  control  of  government  auditors  and 
ended  up  in  the  pockets  of  the  officials,  ex-officials,  and  private 
business  partners  who  ran  the  companies.  The  bureaucracy  was 
afflicted  with  corruption.  At  senior  levels  there  were  periodic  scan- 
dals over  embezzlement  and  acceptance  of  commissions;  at  lower 
levels,  petty  graft  was  rampant.  This  propensity  toward  corrup- 
tion damaged  the  regime's  effort  to  manage  its  most  crucial  and 
costly  welfare  program.  The  theft  of  subsidized  commodities  was 
facilitated  by  official  collusion,  from  the  clerks  of  government  re- 
tail outlets  to  the  high  officials  of  the  Ministry  of  Supply.  The  decline 
of  the  bureaucracy  also  had  deleterious  economic  consequences; 
the  public  sector  suffered  from  an  erosion  in  management,  while 
bureaucratic  red  tape  remained  an  obstruction  to  the  private  and 
foreign  sectors.  The  latter  often  had  to  pay  off  officials  to  negoti- 
ate the  complex  webs  of  administrative  requirements. 

Local  Government 

Local  government  traditionally  enjoyed  limited  power  in  Egypt's 
highly  centralized  state.  Under  the  central  government  were  twenty- 
six  governorates  (sing.,  muhafazah;  pi.,  muhafazat).  These  were  sub- 
divided into  districts  (sing.,  markaz;  pi.,  marakaz)  and  villages  (sing., 
qaryah;  pi.,  qura)  or  towns  (see  fig.  1).  At  each  level,  there  was  a 
governing  structure  that  combined  representative  councils  and 
government-appointed  executive  organs  headed  by  governors,  dis- 
trict officers,  and  mayors,  respectively.  Governors  were  appoint- 
ed by  the  president,  and  they,  in  turn,  appointed  subordinate 
executive  officers.  The  coercive  backbone  of  the  state  apparatus 
ran  downward  from  the  Ministry  of  Interior  through  the  gover- 
nors' executive  organs  to  the  district  police  station  and  the  village 
headman  (sing.,  umdah;  pi.,  umadah). 

Before  the  revolution,  state  penetration  of  the  rural  areas  was  limi- 
ted by  the  power  of  local  notables,  but  under  Nasser,  land  reform 


253 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


reduced  their  socioeconomic  dominance,  and  the  incorporation  of 
peasants  into  cooperatives  transferred  mass  dependence  from  land- 
lords to  government.  The  extension  of  officials  into  the  country- 
side permitted  the  regime  to  bring  development  and  services  to  the 
village.  The  local  branches  of  the  ruling  party,  the  Arab  Socialist 
Union  (ASU),  fostered  a  certain  peasant  political  activism  and 
coopted  the  local  notables — in  particular  the  village  headmen — 
and  checked  their  independence  from  the  regime. 

State  penetration  did  not  retreat  under  Sadat  and  Mubarak.  The 
earlier  effort  to  mobilize  peasants  and  deliver  services  disappeared 
as  the  local  party  and  cooperative  withered,  but  administrative  con- 
trols over  the  peasants  remained  intact.  The  local  power  of  the  old 
families  and  the  headmen  revived  but  more  at  the  expense  of 
peasants  than  of  the  state.  The  district  police  station  balanced  the 
notables,  and  the  system  of  local  government  (the  mayor  and  coun- 
cil) integrated  them  into  the  regime. 

Sadat  took  several  measures  to  decentralize  power  to  the  pro- 
vinces and  towns.  Governors  acquired  more  authority  under  Law 
Number  43  of  1979,  which  reduced  the  administrative  and  budget- 
ary controls  of  the  central  government  over  the  provinces.  The  elect- 
ed councils  acquired,  at  least  formally,  the  right  to  approve  or 
disapprove  the  local  budget.  In  an  effort  to  reduce  local  demands 
on  the  central  treasury,  local  government  was  given  wider  powers 
to  raise  local  taxes.  But  local  representative  councils  became  vehi- 
cles of  pressure  for  government  spending,  and  the  soaring  deficits 
of  local  government  bodies  had  to  be  covered  by  the  central  govern- 
ment. Local  government  was  encouraged  to  enter  into  joint  ven- 
tures with  private  investors,  and  these  ventures  stimulated  an 
alliance  between  government  officials  and  the  local  rich  that  paral- 
leled the  infitah  alliance  at  the  national  level.  Under  Mubarak  de- 
centralization and  local  autonomy  became  more  of  a  reality,  and 
local  policies  often  reflected  special  local  conditions.  Thus,  officials 
in  Upper  Egypt  often  bowed  to  the  powerful  Islamic  movement 
there,  while  those  in  the  port  cities  struck  alliances  with  importers. 

The  Subordinate  Branches:  The  Regime  and  Its 
Constituency 

The  Egyptian  state  was  by  no  means  "captured"  by  Egypt's 
bourgeoisie;  it  retained  its  essential  autonomy  and  often  put  its  own 
interests  ahead  of  those  of  the  upper  classes,  whether  the  issue  was 
control  of  the  economy  or  the  need  to  placate  the  masses  and  main- 
tain social  peace.  But,  beginning  under  Sadat,  the  regime  gradu- 
ally came  to  share  power  with  the  business,  landed,  and  professional 
strata  that  made  up  a  large  portion  of  the  most  politically  active 


254 


Government  and  Politics 


public  and  represented  its  main  constituency.  This  power  sharing 
was  essentially  channeled  through  parliament,  interest  groups,  the 
judiciary,  and  the  press. 

Parliament 

Egypt  had  a  two-chamber  legislature  made  up  of  the  lower  Peo- 
ple's Assembly  (Majlis  ash  Shaab),  which  was  the  locus  of  legisla- 
tive power,  and  the  upper  Consultative  Council  (Majlis  ash  Shura). 
Power  in  the  People's  Assembly  was  concentrated  in  the  hands  of 
the  leadership,  an  elected  speaker  and  the  chairs  of  the  specialized 
committees  into  which  the  assembly  was  divided.  The  president  and 
prime  minister  began  each  legislative  session,  which  lasted  seven 
months,  with  an  overview  of  government  policy.  Laws  proposed  by 
the  executive  or  by  legislators  were  first  considered  in  committee 
and  then,  with  the  consent  of  the  legislative  leadership,  by  the  full 
assembly. 

The  early  parliaments  under  Nasser  were  dominated  by  officials 
and  by  owners  of  medium-sized  property.  In  the  1960s,  the  regime 
decreed  that  half  the  seats  had  to  be  reserved  for  the  lower  classes; 
thus,  in  each  electoral  district,  one  seat  was  filled  by  a  worker  or 
peasant  and  the  other  by  a  professional  or  official.  Although  this 
provision  was  never  repealed,  in  practice,  since  Nasser,  those  who 
filled  peasant  seats  were  actually  either  clients  of  notables  or  wealthy 
peasants  enriched  by  such  ventures  as  labor  contracting,  while  most 
"worker"  deputies  were  trade  union  officials  or  government  em- 
ployees. There  was  no  sign  of  any  parliamentary  voice  speaking  for 
the  have-nots,  save  the  occasional  leftist  intellectual  who  managed 
to  get  a  seat  but  carried  no  weight.  Beginning  in  1979,  a  third  seat, 
to  be  filled  by  a  woman,  was  added  in  thirty  constituencies,  but  this 
provision  was  abolished  in  the  1980s  under  conservative  Islamic  influ- 
ence. The  president  appointed  ten  Copts  to  parliament  to  make  sure 
this  minority  had  some  representation  (see  Coptic  Church,  ch.  2). 

Constitutional  practice  put  parliament  at  a  great  disadvantage 
in  relation  to  the  executive.  The  president  is  above  parliamentary 
authority  and  appoints  the  prime  minister  and  his  government. 
Constitutionally,  parliament  must  approve  the  government.  More- 
over, it  can  remove  a  minister  by  a  vote  of  no-confidence.  It  can 
also,  in  theory,  similarly  challenge  the  prime  minister  and  his 
cabinet;  if  it  does  so,  the  president  must  dissolve  the  government 
or  obtain  its  endorsement  in  a  popular  referendum.  In  practice, 
however,  governments  have  changed  exclusively  at  the  will  of  the 
president  and  never  following  a  vote  of  no-confidence.  The  presi- 
dent can  legislate  by  decree  when  parliament  is  not  in  session  and 
can  bypass  parliament  through  a  government-controlled  plebiscite. 


255 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Sadat  carried  out  some  of  his  most  politically  controversial  initia- 
tives independently  of  parliament,  including  his  1978  repression 
of  the  New  Wafd  Party  and  his  1979  promulgation  of  a  liberal  law 
of  personal  status  that  was  resisted  by  Muslim  opinion. 

The  cabinet  and  even  individual  ministers  enjoyed,  on  the  author- 
ity of  very  loosely  worded  laws,  what  in  effect  amounted  to  decree 
power,  which  they  used  to  make  crucial  decisions,  including  the 
cut  in  subsidies  that  touched  off  the  1977  riots.  The  budget  must 
be  accepted  or  rejected  in  toto  by  parliament  unless  the  executive 
consents  to  amendments.  The  executive  must  present  its  policy 
agenda  to  parliament,  and  ministers  are  subject  to  interpolation, 
but  parliament  regularly  approves  executive  initiatives. 

Because  defense  and  foreign  policy  matters  are  reserved  to  the 
executive,  defense  budgets  are  never  debated  in  parliament.  Like- 
wise, during  negotiations  over  the  peace  treaty  with  Israel,  Sadat 
rejected,  without  repercussions,  nearly  unanimous  parliamentary 
resolutions  to  break  off  the  negotiations,  to  give  the  Arab  Defense 
Pact  priority  over  the  treaty,  and  to  permit  normalization  of  rela- 
tions with  Israel  to  proceed  only  within  the  framework  of  a  com- 
prehensive settlement. 

The  president's  trusted  confidants  were  the  legislative  leaders, 
and  they  easily  set  the  agenda.  The  ruling  party,  subordinate  to 
the  president,  dominated  the  assembly  and  in  a  number  of  cases 
ousted  its  own  parliamentary  peers  when  their  criticism  antagonized 
the  government.  Many  deputies  were  economically  dependent  on 
the  government;  in  the  1980s  a  third  of  them  were  employed  by 
the  state.  Because  the  executive  can  dissolve  parliament  and  through 
its  control  of  the  ruling  party  and  the  electoral  process  replace  in- 
cumbents with  more  docile  deputies,  the  legislature  was  really  at 
the  president's  mercy.  When  opposition  parties  appeared  in  parlia- 
ment, it  became  a  less  submissive  body,  but  the  members  of  the 
large  government  majority  did  not  view  challenging  the  executive 
as  part  of  their  role.  Generally,  the  legislature,  lacking  all  tradi- 
tions of  independence  or  collective  solidarity,  had  only  the  most 
modest  capacity  to  check  the  government  or  hold  it  accountable. 

Nevertheless,  as  limited  political  liberalization  advanced,  parlia- 
ment played  a  growing,  if  still  subordinate,  role  in  the  political  sys- 
tem. Two  changes  fostered  this  role:  first,  the  government  relegated 
authority  over  lesser  matters  to  parliament  and,  along  with  it,  wider 
scope  for  debate  and  expression;  second,  opposition  parties  were 
permitted  to  win  seats  in  parliament. 

The  chief  result  of  this  liberalization  was  that  parliament  became 
an  arena  through  which  the  state  shared  power  with  its  constitu- 
ency, the  dominant  landed  and  business  classes,  allowing  them  to 


256 


Government  and  Politics 


articulate  their  interests,  albeit  generally  within  the  broader  lines 
of  presidential  policy.  Thus,  parliamentary  committees  were  breed- 
ing grounds  for  an  endless  stream  of  initiatives  that  sought  to  roll 
back  state  control  or  populist  regulation  of  the  private  sector.  For 
example,  the  Planning  and  Budget  Committee  demanded  that  the 
private  sector  get  a  fair  share  of  foreign  exchange  and  bank  credit, 
that  public  sector  shares  be  sold  to  investors,  and  that  public  in- 
dustry be  confined  to  areas  private  firms  could  not  undertake.  The 
Housing  Committee  pressured  the  Antiquities  Department  to  divest 
itself  of  land  coveted  by  developers.  The  Religious  Affairs  Com- 
mittee became  a  sounding  board  for  conservative  religious  opin- 
ion, pushing  Islamization  measures,  and  proposing  bans  on  alcohol, 
Western  films,  and  even  belly  dancing.  Parliament  also  played  some 
role  in  the  budgetary  process  by  which  public  resources  were  allo- 
cated and  on  a  number  of  occasions  blocked  measures  to  levy  taxes 
on  wealthy  farmers  and  business  people. 

Parliament  had  no  record  of  deciding  the  big  issues,  but  occa- 
sionally it  became  an  arena  for  debating  them.  When  the  regime 
wished  to  change  policy,  parliament  was  sometimes  the  arena  for 
testing  the  waters  or  for  discrediting  old  policies  as  a  prelude  to 
launching  new  ones.  Sadat  encouraged  parliament  under  his  con- 
fidant, Sayyid  Marii,  to  criticize  the  statist  Sidqi  government  and 
used  parliament  as  a  vehicle  of  his  de-Nasserization  campaign.  Once 
opposition  parties  took  their  seats  in  parliament,  they  attempted, 
with  mixed  success,  to  raise  issues  in  opposition  to  government 
policy. 

Parliament  also  played  an  "oversight"  role,  calling  attention  to 
shortcomings  in  the  performance  of  the  bureaucracy  or  bringing 
constituent  grievances  to  government  attention.  Ministers  were 
constantiy  criticized  over  market  shortages  and  service  breakdowns, 
and  deputies  who  took  their  role  seriously  spent  a  great  deal  of  time 
intervening  with  the  bureaucracy  on  behalf  of  constituents.  On  oc- 
casion, parliament  challenged  the  probity  of  actions  by  ministers 
and  high  officials.  It  attacked  the  Sidqi  government  over  irregular- 
ities in  the  arrangements  of  a  major  oil  pipeline  project  and  the 
Khalil  government  over  the  awarding  of  a  telecommunications  con- 
tract. A  project  to  build  a  resort  near  the  pyramids,  although  involv- 
ing persons  close  to  President  Sadat,  was  investigated  and  rejected 
in  parliament.  Whereas  such  parliamentary  activities  could  serve 
the  leader  as  a  useful  way  of  controlling  the  bureaucracy  and  as 
a  safety  valve  for  redress  of  grievances,  if  deputies  went  too  far, 
they  invited  a  reaction.  Sadat  was  so  irritated  by  the  rise  of  par- 
liamentary criticism  that  in  1979  he  dissolved  the  People's  Assembly 


257 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


and  called  new  elections,  in  which  the  regime,  by  a  combination  of 
fraud  and  intimidation,  made  sure  its  main  critics  lost  their  seats. 

For  those  deputies  willing  to  exercise  their  political  skills  in  sup- 
port of  the  government,  however,  parliamentary  seats  could  be 
stepping-stones  to  political  influence  and  elite  careers.  Parliamen- 
tary seats  allowed  deputies  to  act  as  brokers  between  government 
and  their  constituency,  might  serve  as  a  base  from  which  to  culti- 
vate strategic  connections  in  government,  and  became  something 
of  a  political  apprenticeship  by  which  certain  more  influential  deputies 
became  eligible  for  ministerial  office.  Parliament  also  served  as  a 
repository  for  high  officials  out  of  office  who  wished  to  keep  their 
hand  in  the  political  pot.  Judging  by  the  number  of  candidates  who 
sought  parliamentary  seats,  these  seats  were  worthwhile  for  develop- 
ing connections  in  the  capital  and  influence  at  home. 

A  second  chamber  was  added  to  the  legislature  in  the  late  1970s 
when  the  Central  Committee  of  the  ASU  was  transformed  into  the 
Consultative  Council,  essentially  an  advisory  chamber  of  notables 
and  retired  officials.  In  1980  the  membership  was  overhauled;  70 
members  were  appointed  by  the  president,  and  the  ruling  party 
won  all  140  elected  seats.  In  1989  the  ruling  party  again  took  all 
seats. 

The  Judiciary,  Civil  Rights,  and  the  Rule  of  Law 

The  Egyptian  legal  system  was  built  on  both  the  sharia  (Islamic 
law)  and  the  Napoleonic  Code  introduced  during  Napoleon 
Bonaparte's  occupation  and  the  subsequent  training  of  Egyptian 
jurists  in  France.  Until  they  were  abolished  in  the  1940s,  consular 
courts  and  mixed  courts  (of  foreign  and  Egyptian  jurists),  products 
of  the  capitulations,  had  jurisdiction  over  cases  involving  foreign- 
ers. Until  the  1952  Revolution,  there  was  a  separate  system  of  reli- 
gious courts  that  applied  the  law  of  personal  status,  ruling  in  matters 
of  marriage,  divorce,  and  inheritance.  Sharia  courts  had  jurisdic- 
tion over  Muslims  while  the  Coptic  minority  had  its  own  communal 
courts.  Under  the  republic,  religious  courts  were  abolished  and  their 
functions  transferred  to  the  secular  court  system,  although  religious 
law  continued  to  influence  the  decisions  of  these  courts,  especially 
in  matters  of  personal  status.  In  1990  Egypt's  court  system  was 
otherwise  chiefly  secular,  applying  criminal  and  civil  law  deriving 
primarily  from  the  French  heritage.  In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  how- 
ever, Muslim  political  activists  had  fought  with  some  success  to 
advance  the  impact  of  the  sharia  in  adjudication;  for  example,  they 
were  influential  in  reversing  a  liberal  law  of  personal  status  decreed 
under  Sadat  that  had  expanded  the  rights  of  women.  They  also 
achieved  the  passage  of  a  constitutional  amendment  making  the 


258 


Government  and  Politics 


sharia  in  principle  the  sole  source  of  legislation,  a  potential  ground 
for  ruling  unconstitutional  a  whole  corpus  of  secular  law. 

Under  the  Constitution,  the  executive  is  prohibited  from  "inter- 
fering" in  lawsuits  or  in  the  affairs  of  justice.  Judges  are  appointed 
for  life  and  cannot  be  dismissed  without  serious  cause.  This  provi- 
sion did  not  deter  Nasser  from  a  wholesale  purge  of  politically  hostile 
judges  in  the  late  1960s,  but  his  action  was  the  exception.  Under 
Sadat,  who  sought  to  replace  revolutionary  with  constitutional 
legitimacy,  the  role  of  the  judiciary  was  largely  respected.  Although 
often  annoyed  by  their  rulings  in  political  cases,  Sadat  eschewed 
any  purge  of  judges  and  resorted  instead  to  the  creation  of  excep- 
tional courts  for  political  offenses;  for  its  part,  the  judiciary  was 
able  to  ensure  that  a  majority  of  appointees  to  these  courts  be  trained 
judges.  The  presidency,  nevertheless,  continued  to  enjoy  consider- 
able influence  over  the  judiciary  since  judicial  appointments  are 
a  presidential  prerogative.  Judges  were  considered  functionaries 
of  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  which  administered  and  financed  the 
court  system.  The  president  headed  the  Supreme  Council  of  Judi- 
cial Organs,  which  established  regulations  governing  the  judiciary. 

The  base  of  the  court  system  was  made  up  of  district  tribunals, 
single-judge  courts  with  jurisdiction  over  minor  civil  and  criminal 
cases.  (Minor  civil  cases  involved  less  than  £E250,  and  minor  crimi- 
nal cases  were  punished  by  less  than  three  years'  imprisonment.) 
Over  these  there  was  in  each  governorate  at  least  one  tribunal  of 
first  instance,  which  was  composed  of  a  presiding  judge  and  two 
sitting  judges.  These  tribunals  of  first  instance  dealt  with  serious 
crimes  and  heard  appeals  from  district  courts.  Seven  higher-level 
courts  of  appeals  in  Cairo  (Al  Qahirah),  Alexandria  (Al  Iskandari- 
yah),  Tanta,  Asyut,  Mansurah,  Ismailia  (Al  Ismailiyah),  and  Bani 
Suwayf  were  divided  into  criminal  and  civil  chambers;  the  former 
tried  certain  felonies,  and  the  latter  heard  appeals  against  judg- 
ments of  the  tribunals  of  first  instance.  The  Court  of  Cassation 
in  Cairo  heard  petitions  on  final  judgments  rendered  by  the  courts 
of  appeals,  made  on  grounds  of  defective  application  of  the  law 
or  violation  of  due  process.  It  had  a  president,  fifteen  vice  presi- 
dents, and  eighty  justices.  Alongside  these  courts  of  general  juris- 
diction were  special  courts,  such  as  labor  tribunals  and  security 
courts,  headed  by  the  Supreme  State  Security  Court,  which  heard 
cases  involving  political  and  military  security.  A  three-level  hier- 
archy of  administrative  courts  adjudicated  administrative  disputes 
among  ministries  and  agencies  and  was  headed  by  the  Council  of 
State.  The  Office  of  the  Public  Prosecutor,  headed  by  the  attor- 
ney general  and  staffed  by  his  public  prosecutors,  supervised  the 
enforcement  of  criminal  law  judgments.  At  the  apex  of  the  judiciary 


259 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


was  the  Supreme  Constitutional  Court  made  up  of  a  chief  justice 
and  nine  justices.  It  settled  disputes  between  courts  and  rendered 
binding  interpretations  in  matters  that  were  grave  enough  to  re- 
quire conformity  of  interpretation  under  the  Constitution. 

The  rule  of  law  expanded  in  the  post-Nasser  era,  and  judges  be- 
came a  vigorous  force  defending  the  legal  rights  of  citizens  against 
the  state.  Nonpolitical  personal  rights,  much  restricted  under  Nas- 
ser, were  effectively  restored  under  Sadat.  It  was  a  sign  of  the  new 
political  climate  he  fostered  that  not  only  were  private  property 
rights  considered  inviolable  but  also  the  courts  proved  zealous  in 
defending  the  rights  of  those  charged  with  abuse  of  public  property. 
Political  rights  were  less  secure.  In  contrast  to  Nasser,  Sadat  allowed 
private  criticism  of  the  government,  but  rights  of  public  assembly 
were  circumscribed  by  draconian  laws  against  even  peaceful  pro- 
test and  the  distribution  or  possession  of  "subversive" — normally 
leftist — literature.  Although  the  courts  frequently  dismissed  charges 
on  such  offenses,  those  arrested  nevertheless  often  spent  much  time 
in  jail,  nor  have  the  courts  been  able  to  restrain  the  regime  when 
it  wanted  badly  enough  to  end  dissidence.  While  Islamic  radicals 
have  been  regularly  subjected  to  arbitrary  arrest,  the  most  dramatic 
case  of  the  "iron  fist"  was  the  1981  crackdown,  when  Sadat  arrest- 
ed about  1,500  of  Egypt's  most  prominent  public  figures. 

Under  Mubarak  the  independence  of  the  courts  and  their  role 
in  expanding  constitutional  rights  and  procedures  grew.  Courts 
overturned  a  ban  on  the  New  Wafd  Party,  threw  out  the  Electoral 
Law  of  1984,  and  declared  unconstitutional  a  Sadat  decree  issued 
in  the  absence  of  parliament.  Judges  expanded  the  scope  of  press 
freedom  by  dismissing  libel  suits  of  government  ministers  against 
the  opposition  press  and  widened  the  scope  of  labor  rights  by  dis- 
missing charges  against  strikers.  But  the  regime  saw  fit  to  ignore 
a  Supreme  Constitutional  Court  ruling  that  overturned  the  distri- 
bution of  certain  seats  in  parliament  to  the  disadvantage  of  the  ruling 
party.  The  Ministry  of  Interior  continued  to  exercise  sweeping  pow- 
ers of  arrest  and  detention  of  dissidents  and  frequently  ignored  court 
decisions  (see  The  Judicial  System,  ch.  5). 

The  Political  Role  of  the  Media 

Under  Nasser  the  media  were  brought  under  state  control  and 
harnessed  as  instruments  of  the  revolutionary  government  for  shaping 
public  opinion.  Radio  and  television,  in  particular,  began  to  pene- 
trate the  villages.  Nasser  used  them  to  speak  direcdy  to  Egyptians  in 
their  own  language,  and  they  were  major  factors  in  his  rise  as  a 
charismatic  leader.  Radio  Cairo  was  a  link  between  Nasser  and 
his  pan-Arab  constituency  in  the  Arab  world  and  was  regularly 


260 


Government  and  Politics 


used  to  stir  up  popular  feeling  against  rival  Arab  leaders.  In  the 
print  media,  however,  the  government  did  not  speak  with  one  voice. 
There  were  identifiable  differences  in  the  government-controlled 
press  between  those  on  the  right  of  the  political  spectrum  {Al  Akh- 
bar,  The  News),  the  center  (AlAhram,  The  Pyramids),  and  the  left 
(Ruz  al  Yusuf).  Nasser,  a  voracious  reader,  appears  to  have  been 
influenced  by  the  views  expressed  in  the  prestigious  AlAhram,  head- 
ed by  Mohamed  Hassanain  Heikal.  Criticism  in  the  left-wing  press 
played  a  role  in  the  drift  of  his  policies  to  the  left  in  the  1960s.  Thus, 
the  press  had  a  certain  role  in  transmitting  opinion  upward. 

In  the  post- Nasser  era,  the  broadcast  media  remained  govern- 
ment controlled.  Fairly  developed  radio  and  television  facilities 
existed.  Egypt  had  sixty- two  mediumwave  amplitude  modulation 
(AM)  radio  stations,  representing  at  least  one  for  each  major  town 
in  the  country,  and  three  shortwave  transmitters  that  relayed  pro- 
grams to  listeners  in  Egypt  and  overseas.  Domestically,  stations  car- 
ried a  number  of  national  programs  as  well  as  regional  programs 
designed  for  different  parts  of  Egypt.  In  its  foreign  programs,  Egypt 
broadcast  in  thirty-three  languages,  including  the  most  common 
European  languages  in  addition  to  such  African  languages  as  Am- 
haric,  Hausa,  Wolof,  Swahili,  and  Yoruba  and  such  Asian  lan- 
guages as  Bengali,  Hindi,  Indonesian,  and  Urdu.  Egyptians  were 
estimated  to  own  14  million  radios  in  1989  and  about  3.5  million 
television  sets.  Television  had  two  national  networks,  an  additional 
channel  in  Cairo,  and  a  regional  "Sinai  network";  programs  were 
televised  in  Arabic  only.  The  broadcast  media  permitted  the  govern- 
ment to  blanket  the  country  with  its  messages.  For  example,  the 
government  enjoyed  a  virtual  monopoly  at  election  time.  To  placate 
Muslim  opinion,  television  programming  was  increasingly  Islamized, 
and  several  popular  preachers  in  alliance  with  the  government  used 
the  electronic  media  to  broaden  their  followings. 

Newspapers  were  scarcely  more  autonomous:  government-appoin- 
ted editors  were  still  expected  to  "self-censor"  their  product  and 
were  subject  to  removal  when  they  did  not.  Generally,  Sadat  used 
his  prerogative  of  editorial  appointment  to  eject  editors  and  jour- 
nalists with  left-wing  views  and  to  foster  conservative  voices.  For 
example,  the  anti-Nasser  Amin  brothers,  Ali  and  Mustafa,  reap- 
peared in  the  journalistic  establishment,  and  Ibrahim  Saada  was 
permitted  to  turn  Al  Akhbar  into  a  vehicle  of  anti- Soviet  and  anti- 
Arab  propaganda.  The  fall  of  Heikal  at  AlAhram  for  allegedly  try- 
ing to  turn  the  paper  into  a  "center  of  power"  showed  Sadat  was 
no  more  willing  than  Nasser  to  tolerate  a  major  journalistic  voice 
at  variance  with  his  policy.  Sadat,  however,  permitted  the  found- 
ing of  an  independent  opposition  press  that  reached  far  fewer 


261 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


readers  but  expressed  much  more  diverse  views  than  the  govern- 
ment press.  Al  Ahali  (The  Folk)  spoke  for  the  left,  Al  Ahrar  (The 
Liberals)  for  the  right,  Ad  Dawah  (The  Call)  and  later  Al  Ihtisan 
(Adherence)  for  the  Muslim  Brotherhood,  and  Ash  Shaab  (The  Peo- 
ple) for  the  center-left  Labor  Party.  The  government  party  pub- 
lished Al  Mayu  (May).  Opposition  newspapers  were  sometimes 
joined  by  government  papers  in  investigative  journalism  that  un- 
covered scandals  embarrassing  to  the  government.  The  left-wing 
press,  in  particular,  carried  on  a  campaign  against  the  infitah  and 
Sadat's  foreign  policy  that  led  to  the  closing  of  Al  Ahali. 

Mubarak  restored  freedom  to  the  secular  press,  allowed  the  New 
Wafd  Party  to  publish  Al  Wafd  (The  Mission)  and  Nasserites  to 
open  Sawt  alArab  (Voice  of  the  Arabs),  while  repressing  the  Brother- 
hood's A d  Dawah.  The  rise  of  Islamist  sentiment  was  nevertheless 
reflected  in  the  proliferation  of  Islamist  periodicals  put  out  by  the 
various  parties,  such  as  Al  Lima  al  Islami  (The  Islamic  Standard) 
by  the  government  party  and  An  Nur  (The  Light)  by  the  Liberal 
Party  (Ahrar).  One  sign  of  the  growing  independence  and  influence 
of  the  press  under  Mubarak  was  the  1987  trial  of  police  officers 
for  torturing  Islamic  activists,  a  milestone  in  the  protection  of  in- 
dividual rights  that  resulted  largely  from  public  pressures  gener- 
ated by  the  press.  But  there  were  limits  to  the  influence  of  the  press: 
the  circulation  of  the  main  government  dailies  did  not  exceed  1 
million  each,  and  except  for  Al  Wafd,  the  opposition  papers  were 
all  weeklies  lucky  to  get  a  tenth  of  that  figure. 

Interest  Groups 

The  widening  scope  for  interest- group  politics  was  one  of  the 
most  significant  dimensions  of  the  limited  liberalization  begun  under 
Sadat.  Under  the  Nasser  regime,  which  distrusted  the  effect  of  pres- 
sure groups  on  public  policy,  interest  groups  were  brought  into 
a  corporatist  system  whereby  their  leaders  were  government  ap- 
pointed. They  were  thus  rendered  powerless  to  deflect  the  mount- 
ing state  assault  on  private  interests  launched  in  the  name  of 
socialism.  Sadat,  seeking  to  win  the  support  of  the  land-owning 
and  educated  classes,  permitted  their  associated  interest  groups 
greater  autonomy  and  opened  greater  access  for  them  into  the 
decision-making  process.  Their  members  turned  parliament  into 
a  channel  for  promoting  their  interests,  and  their  representatives 
carried  weight  in  the  system  of  consultative  national  councils.  Un- 
der Mubarak  the  numbers  and  influence  of  interest  groups  grew, 
and  although  the  relation  between  the  state  and  these  associations 
was  by  no  means  free  of  conflict,  they  carried  much  more  weight 
in  policy  councils  than  the  unorganized  mass  public.  Of  all  interests, 


262 


Government  television  building,  Cairo 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt,  Washington 

business  made  the  best  use  of  the  widened  scope  for  interest- group 
activity.  In  men  such  as  Osman  Ahmad  Osman,  business  enjoyed 
the  direct  access  to  Sadat  critical  for  steering  the  transition  from 
statism.  But  organizations  like  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  the 
Federation  of  Industries  also  spoke  with  increasing  authority  for 
their  interests  against  both  the  state  sector  and  labor.  The  Business- 
men's Association  and  the  Egyptian- American  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce united  the  most  powerful  business  interests  and  facilitated 
their  access  to  state  resources.  The  government  even  encouraged 
formation  of  new  business  organizations,  such  as  a  joint  venture 
investors'  association  and  an  exporters'  union. 

To  be  sure,  the  bourgeoisie  was  far  from  united  on  many  issues. 
Business  people  vied  for  lucrative  privileged  deals  with  the  public 
sector,  and  those  connected  to  its  patronage  networks  were  much 
more  favorable  to  the  state  than  those  in  competition  with  it.  Such 
competition  included  the  bankers,  who  fought  the  public  sector  for 
control  of  foreign  exchange,  and  others  who  had  to  pay  off  offi- 
cials merely  to  operate.  Clashes  also  occurred  between  the  interests 
of  importers  and  of  local  industrialists  and  between  the  secular  haute 
bourgeoisie  and  Islamic-oriented  small  business. 

Nevertheless,  on  the  big  issues  such  as  infitah,  government  regu- 
lation, taxation,  prices,  and  wages,  business  shared  a  common  view. 


263 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Thus,  business  people  and  business  groups  were  instrumental  in 
pressuring  for  the  widening  of  infitah  under  Sadat.  They  continually 
lobbied,  with  considerable  success,  for  tax  reductions  and  exemp- 
tions on  the  ground  that  the  mobilization  of  savings  and  investment 
required  these  concessions.  The  government  responded  by  reduc- 
ing the  progressive  rates  of  the  income  tax  and  permitting  a  prolifer- 
ation of  "tax  holidays"  for  new  investment.  The  ability  of  the  rich 
to  evade  taxes  had  become  such  a  scandal  by  the  end  of  the  1970s 
that  Sadat  declared  the  rich  were  not  paying  their  fair  share  of  taxes. 
The  Chamber  of  Commerce  lobbied  aggressively  against  attempts 
by  the  Ministry  of  Supply  to  fix  profit  ceilings  on  imported  com- 
modities and  fought  back  pressures  from  the  trade  unions  for  in- 
creases in  minimum  wages.  Construction  and  real  estate  interests, 
operating  through  the  Housing  Committee  of  parliament,  pushed 
through  the  demolition  of  lower-income  neighborhoods  to  make 
way  for  luxury  hotels,  highways,  parking  lots,  and  office  towers. 
The  Federation  of  Industries  launched  a  campaign  to  roll  back  pub- 
lic sector  monopolies  in  fields  where  industrialists  wanted  to  in- 
vest, while  at  the  same  time  pushing  for  protection  from  foreign 
competition.  Owners  of  large  farms  were  also  successful  in  advanc- 
ing their  interests.  Operating  through  the  Agricultural  Affairs  Com- 
mittee of  parliament,  they  won  an  alteration  in  the  Law  on  Agrarian 
Relations,  reducing  the  security  of  tenants  and  raising  their  rents; 
had  public  money  allocated  to  compensate  victims  of  the  Nasserite 
land  reforms;  and  won  the  right  to  bid  on  reclaimed  state  land, 
unrestricted  by  the  agrarian  reform  ceiling. 

The  professional  syndicates  or  unions  also  worked  to  defend  the 
interests  of  their  members.  The  medical  syndicate,  for  example, 
lobbied  to  restrain  the  indiscriminate  expansion  of  professional 
school  enrollments,  which  it  said  was  producing  a  surplus  of  under- 
trained  graduates.  The  engineers'  syndicate  insisted  that  foreign 
firms  be  required  to  hire  a  quota  of  Egyptian  engineers. 

The  actions  of  the  journalists'  and  lawyers'  syndicates  stood  out 
as  cases  where  professionals  took  positions  on  wider  political  is- 
sues in  opposition  to  the  regime.  The  syndicates  took  these  posi- 
tions partly  because  these  associations  were  battlegrounds  between 
rival  political  forces  and  partly  because  their  professional  interests 
demanded  political  freedoms  greater  than  those  that  the  regime 
was  willing  to  concede.  Thus,  the  journalists'  union  long  fought 
to  expand  press  freedoms.  Sadat  inserted  a  trusted  confidant  to 
discipline  the  union,  and  when  the  strong  leftist  influence  in  the 
profession  led  to  the  election  of  a  leftist,  he  tried  unsuccessfully  to 
abolish  the  union.  The  Mubarak  regime,  however,  managed  to 
reassert  its  control. 


264 


Government  and  Politics 


The  lawyers'  syndicate  also  became  an  independent  force  trouble- 
some to  the  regime.  While  lawyers  generally  applauded  Sadat's 
liberalization  and  the  restoration  of  the  rule  of  law,  he  did  not  go 
far  enough  to  please  many.  The  union  gave  New  Wafdist  leader 
Fuad  Siraj  ad  Din  (also  seen  as  Serag  al  Din)  a  forum  for  his  at- 
tempt to  resurrect  his  party.  Siraj  ad  Din  vigorously  attacked  Sadat's 
Law  of  Shame  by  which  he  attempted  to  outlaw  all  criticism  "dis- 
respectful" of  presidential  authority.  Sadat  finally  purged  the  syn- 
dicate leadership  when  it  attacked  the  normalization  of  relations 
with  Israel.  Under  Mubarak  the  syndicate  became  an  even  more 
contentious  defender  of  civil  liberties;  in  1986  lawyers  staged  a  strike 
against  the  continuation  of  emergency  laws,  and  in  1988  the  syn- 
dicate raised  a  public  storm  when  it  launched  a  campaign  against 
the  abuse  of  emergency  laws  and  illegal  detentions. 

Public  sector  managers  also  entered  the  interest  group  arena  as 
the  infitah  unfolded,  embodying  both  threats  and  opportunities  for 
them.  The  Ministry  of  Industry  convened  assemblies  in  which  pub- 
lic sector  officials  were  allowed  to  vent  their  grievances.  Seeking 
to  compete  and  survive  in  a  freer  economy,  they  demanded  dis- 
cretion to  raise  prices  as  costs  rose,  reduction  of  their  tax  burden, 
and  authority  over  personnel  policy  to  "link  incentives  to  produc- 
tion." They  also  lobbied  against  a  joint-venture  textile  factory  that 
threatened  to  flood  the  market  at  the  expense  of  the  public  textile 
industry.  The  managers  had  but  limited  success,  however,  because 
their  desire  for  lower  taxes  clashed  with  the  needs  of  the  treasury, 
and  their  desire  to  raise  prices  and  dismiss  excess  labor  risked  a 
popular  reaction  the  government  could  ill  afford.  Public  sector 
managers  increasingly  saw  their  salvation,  therefore,  in  joint  ven- 
tures with  foreign  firms  that  would  release  them  from  government 
restrictions  and  from  the  provisions  of  the  labor  code.  Pushing  from 
the  other  side  with  mixed  success,  the  trade  unions  voiced  the  ob- 
jections of  public  sector  workers  to  any  weakening  of  the  labor  code. 
The  unions  fought  for  increases  in  the  minimum  wage,  too,  but 
raises  always  seemed  to  lag  behind  the  rising  cost  of  living. 

Generally  speaking,  the  widened  scope  for  interest-group  polit- 
ics in  post-Nasser  Egypt  opened  access  for  the  "haves"  to  the  policy 
process.  But  this  was  to  the  exclusion  of,  and  often  at  the  expense 
of,  the  less  well  connected  or  unorganized  masses. 

Controlling  the  Mass  Political  Arena 

A  state  may  control  the  political  arena  through  some  combina- 
tion of  legitimacy,  coercion,  and  the  incorporation  of  participation 
through  political  institutions.  Nasser  used  charisma  and  coercion 
to  impose  a  nationalist-populist  ideological  consensus  on  Egypt's 


265 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


political  arena  and  to  incorporate  a  broad  support  coalition  in  a 
single — albeit  weak — party,  the  Arab  Socialist  Union  (ASU).  His 
charismatic  legitimacy  allowed  him  to  balance  rival  social  forces. 
For  example,  he  used  popular  support  to  curb  the  bourgeoisie, 
rather  than  to  accommodate  their  participatory  propensities,  and 
to  repress  those — the  Wafd  (Al  Wafd  al  Misri),  and  the  Muslim 
Brotherhood — that  refused  incorporation  into  his  coalition.  The 
post-Nasser  regime  had  to  reshape  Egypt's  political  institutions  in 
order  to  maintain  control  over  the  political  arena  without  the  legi- 
timacy and  coercive  assets  he  had  commanded. 

Sadat  resorted  to  a  strategy  mixing  limited  liberalization,  retradi- 
tionalization,  and  repression.  He  pioneered  an  experiment  in  limit- 
ed political  pluralization  designed  to  control  the  politically  attentive 
public.  Needing  to  solicit  the  support  of  the  bourgeoisie  in  the 
absence  of  the  broad  mass  legitimacy  Nasser  had  enjoyed,  Sadat 
had  to  address  its  desires  for  political  liberalization.  Moreover,  as 
his  "rightward"  policy  course  shattered  the  consensus  Nasser  had 
built  and  precipitated  the  emergence  of  leftist-Nasserite  opposition, 
Sadat  sought  to  balance  this  opposition  by  allowing  the  mainstream 
Islamic  movement  and  the  liberal  New  Wafd  Party  to  reenter  the 
political  arena.  As  Egypt's  political  arena  was  thus  pluralized,  Sadat 
attempted  to  incorporate  it  through  a  controlled  multiparty  sys- 
tem. The  ASU  was  dismantled  and  opposition  parties  allowed  to 
coalesce  around  its  fragments  or  the  remnants  of  resurrected 
prerevolutionary  parties.  They  were  expected  to  be  "loyal"  opposi- 
tion parties  that  would  refrain  from  "destructive"  criticism  of  re- 
gime policy  but  within  this  limit  were  allowed  to  compete  with  the 
government  party  in  parliamentary  elections.  Even  Nasserites  and 
the  Marxist  left  were  more  or  less  accommodated  within  these  par- 
ties, although  they  were  vulnerable  to  exclusion  from  the  system 
when  they  pushed  their  cases  too  far;  indeed,  ultimately,  when  they 
refused  to  play  by  his  rules,  Sadat  suspended  the  experiment. 

Toward  the  more  passive  masses,  Sadat's  strategy  was  to  replace 
charismatic  with  traditional  personal  legitimacy,  projecting  him- 
self as  a  pious  and  patriarchal  leader  and,  after  1973,  as  a  success- 
ful war  hero.  But  as  corruption  and  inequality  spread  while  he 
pursued  Westernization  and  accommodation  with  Israel,  this  strate- 
gy gradually  failed,  leaving  a  legitimacy  vacuum  that  paved  the 
way  for  his  assassination.  The  absence  of  public  mourning  on  his 
death,  in  stark  contrast  to  the  mass  hysteria  on  Nasser's  passing, 
was  a  measure  of  the  decline  of  regime  legitimacy  by  the  end  of 
Sadat's  presidency. 

Mubarak  inherited  a  regime  lacking  a  credible  legitimizing  ideol- 
ogy or  a  leading  personality  capable  of  attracting  mass  loyalties 


266 


Government  and  Politics 


to  the  state.  Indicative  of  the  regime's  ideological  bankruptcy  fol- 
lowing Sadat's  death  was  Mubarak's  attempt  to  portray  his  new 
regime  as  both  Nasserite  and  Islamic,  all  the  while  continuing 
Sadatist  policies.  In  the  absence  of  ideological  legitimacy,  the 
Mubarak  regime  had  to  restore  the  faltering  political  liberaliza- 
tion pioneered  by  Sadat.  Mubarak  revived  opposition  parties  and 
widened  freedom  of  political  expression,  particularly  of  the  press, 
permitting  much  more  unrestrained  criticism  of  the  government 
than  was  permitted  under  Sadat.  Limited  political  pluralization 
was  essential  to  accommodate  the  participatory  demands  of  the  edu- 
cated upper  and  middle  classes,  and  given  the  continuing  passivity, 
poverty,  and  deference  of  a  large  part  of  the  masses,  such  plurali- 
zation could  be  managed  with  less  risk  than  the  alternative  of  large- 
scale  repression.  Moreover,  as  under  Sadat,  liberalization  was  not 
uniformly  applied  to  social  groups.  The  regime  sought  to  accom- 
modate more  conservative  forces,  such  as  the  liberal  bourgeoisie 
and  conservative  Islamists,  while  reserving  selective  repression  for 
leftists,  strikers,  and  Islamic  radicals. 

The  "Dominant  Party  System" 

In  Egypt's  "dominant  party  system,"  a  big  ruling  party  strad- 
dling the  center  of  the  ideological  spectrum  was  flanked  by  small 
opposition  "parties  of  pressure"  on  its  left  and  right. 

The  Ruling  Party 

The  ruling  National  Democratic  Party  (NDP)  was  a  direct 
descendant  of  Nasser's  Arab  Socialist  Union,  albeit  shorn  of  the 
left-wing  intellectuals  and  politicized  officers  who  dominated  it  in 
the  1960s.  By  the  1980s,  it  incorporated  the  ruling  alliance  of  senior 
bureaucrats,  top  police  and  army  officers,  business  people,  and  large 
landowners  who  dominated  the  governorates.  Most  of  these  elites 
had  a  foot  in  both  state  and  society,  combining  public  office  and 
private  assets.  The  party's  official  ideology  expressed  this  social 
composition:  it  stood  for  a  middle  way  between  socialism  and  in- 
dividualistic capitalism.  This  middle  way  would  be  compatible  with 
a  large  public  sector,  in  which  the  many  senior  bureaucrats  and 
state  managers  had  a  stake,  and  with  the  growing  private  and  for- 
eign capitalism,  on  which  both  officials  and  proregime  business  peo- 
ple were  thriving.  The  party's  ideology  was  generally  too  vague 
and  ambivalent  to  determine  government  policy,  but  it  authenti- 
cally expressed  the  stake  of  its  constituents  in  both  a  massive  state 
and  an  open  economy.  The  relative  balance  between  the  party's 
elements  shifted  over  time;  under  Sadat  the  infitah  bourgeoisie  rose 


267 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

to  prominence,  while  Mubarak  shifted  the  balance  in  favor  of  the 
state  bourgeoisie  and  the  old  pre- 1952  aristocracy. 

The  NDP,  lacking  developed  organization  and  ideological  soli- 
darity, was  a  weak  party,  in  many  ways  more  an  appendage  of 
government  than  an  autonomous  political  force.  But  it  performed 
useful  functions  for  both  the  regime  and  its  membership.  Although 
the  bureaucracy  and  academia  remained  the  principal  channels  of 
elite  recruitment,  party  credentials  and  service  became  a  factor  in 
such  cooptation,  and  the  party  represented  a  ladder  of  recruitment 
for  the  private  sector  bourgeoisie.  The  party  did  not  make  high 
policy,  and  many  of  the  policy  recommendations  of  its  commit- 
tees, such  as  calls  for  the  application  of  the  sharia  and  abolition 
of  the  public  sector,  were  simply  ignored  by  the  government.  But 
its  parliamentary  caucus  assumed  considerable  authority  over  lesser 
matters:  it  was  the  source  of  a  constant  stream  of  initiatives  and 
responses  to  government  meant  to  defend  or  to  promote  the  in- 
terest of  its  largely  bourgeois  constituency.  Thus,  the  NDP  incor- 
porated major  segments  of  the  most  strategic  social  forces  into  the 
ruling  coalition;  it  conceded  no  accountability  to  them  but  provided 
enough  privileged  access  to  satisfy  them. 

The  party  lacked  a  strong  extragovernmental  organization,  en- 
joyed little  loyalty  from  its  members,  and  had  few  activists;  indeed, 
police  officials  played  a  prominent  role  in  its  leadership,  and  in 
the  governorates  the  Ministry  of  Interior  seemed  to  act  for  the  party 
in  the  absence  of  a  real  apparatus.  But  by  way  of  the  client  net- 
works of  progovernment  notables,  the  party  brought  a  portion  of 
the  village  and  urban  masses  into  the  regime's  camp,  denying  the 
opposition  access  to  them.  The  party  also  nominally  incorporated 
large  numbers  of  government  employees  and  managed  to  place  its 
partisans  in  the  top  posts  of  most  of  the  professional  and  labor  syn- 
dicates. The  party  lacked  an  interest  in  mass  mobilization,  and, 
if  anything,  its  function  was  to  enforce  demobilization.  The  govern- 
ment had  to  depend  on  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  village  headmen, 
and  local  notables  to  bring  out  the  vote.  But  as  an  organizational 
bond  between  the  regime  and  the  local  sub-elites  that  represented 
its  core  support  and  its  linkage  to  wider  social  forces,  the  party 
helped  protect  the  government's  societal  base. 

The  Opposition  Parties 

The  once  monolithic  Egyptian  political  arena  gave  birth  in  the 
1970s  to  a  rich  array  of  new  political  parties  competing  with  the 
ruling  party.  While  some  were  a  "loyal"  opposition  and  others 
closer  to  counterregime  movements,  all  gave  expression  to  interests 
and  values  different  from  those  of  the  ruling  party. 


268 


Government  and  Politics 


The  tiny  Liberal  Party  was  formed  in  1976  from  a  right-wing 
sliver  of  the  ASU  by  an  ex- army  officer.  Grouping  landowners  and 
professionals,  it  was  to  the  right  of  the  ruling  party.  Its  ideology 
combined  calls  for  the  selling  of  the  public  sector,  an  end  to  subsi- 
dies, and  unrestricted  foreign  investment  with  demands  for  fur- 
ther political  liberalization  and  an  attempt  to  mobilize  God  and 
Islam  in  defense  of  capitalism.  Having  littie  popular  appeal,  it  oper- 
ated as  an  elite  pressure  group  speaking  for  private  enterprise  and 
generally  in  support  of  Sadat's  liberalization  policies. 

Although  also  beginning  as  a  faction  of  the  ASU  headed  by  a 
left-wing  Free  Officer,  Khalid  Muhi  ad  Din,  the  National  Progres- 
sive Unionist  Party  (NPUP  or  Tagamu)  evolved  into  an  authentic 
opposition  party  of  the  left.  It  brought  together,  behind  an  ideolo- 
gy of  nationalist  populism,  a  coalition  of  Marxist  and  Nasserite 
intellectuals  and  trade  union  leaders.  It  defended  the  Nasserite 
heritage,  rejected  the  alignment  with  the  United  States  and  the 
separate  peace  with  Israel,  and  called  for  a  return  to  Egypt's  anti- 
imperialist  role.  It  rejected  the  infitah  as  damaging  to  national  in- 
dustry and  leading  to  foreign  domination,  debt,  corruption,  and 
inequality;  it  called  for  a  return  to  development  led  by  the  public 
sector.  It  had  a  small  but  well  organized  base  of  activists. 

The  Socialist  Labor  Party  (SLP  or  Amal)  was  formed  in  1979 
under  Sadat's  encouragement  to  displace  the  NPUP  (which  was 
proving  too  critical)  as  the  loyal  opposition  party  of  the  left.  While 
its  social  composition — landlords  and  professionals — resembled  the 
Liberal  Party,  many  of  its  leaders  were  quite  different  in  political 
background,  having  belonged  to  the  radical  nationalist  Young  Egypt 
Party  (Misr  al  Fatat)  before  1952.  Despite  its  origin,  the  party, 
alienated  by  Sadat's  separate  peace,  by  the  corruption  in  his  re- 
gime, and  by  the  excesses  of  infitah,  soon  moved  into  opposition, 
becoming  a  public  sector  defender  critical  of  untrammeled  capital- 
ism and  Western  alignment.  The  SLP  lacked  a  large  organized 
base  and  relied  on  the  personal  followings  of  its  leaders.  It  and  the 
Liberal  Party,  in  an  effort  to  overcome  their  limited  popular  ap- 
peal, joined  in  1987  with  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  in  the  Islamic 
Alliance  under  the  slogan  "Islam  is  the  solution." 

The  New  Wafd  Party  was  a  coalition  of  landowners,  profession- 
als, and  merchants,  led  by  a  number  of  prominent  leaders  of  the 
original  Wafd,  notably  Fuad  Siraj  ad  Din.  It  was  the  voice  of  the 
old  aristocracy  excluded  from  power  by  Nasser  and  of  the  wing 
of  the  private  bourgeoisie  still  antagonistic  to  the  state  bourgeoisie 
that  emerged  in  the  shadow  of  the  regime.  It  also  enjoyed  a  sig- 
nificant following  among  the  educated  middle  class.  The  party's 
main  plank  called  for  genuine  political  liberalization,  including 


269 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


competitive  election  of  the  president.  It  demanded  thorough  eco- 
nomic liberalization  to  match  political  liberalization,  including  a 
radical  reduction  in  the  public  sector,  in  state  intervention  in  the 
economy,  and  in  barriers  to  a  full  opening  to  international  capital- 
ism. Although  it  clashed  with  Sadat  over  the  legitimacy  of  the  1952 
Revolution,  as  the  economic  role  of  the  state  was  strengthened  under 
Mubarak,  the  New  Wafd  Party  came  to  speak  with  a  Sadatist  slant 
to  the  "right"  of  the  ruling  NDP. 

The  Islamic  movement  was  fragmented  into  a  multitude  of  au- 
tonomous factions  that  shared  the  common  goal  of  an  Islamic  state 
but  differed  in  social  origin  and  in  tactics.  Those  that  were  willing 
to  work  through  the  system  were  allowed  to  organize  and  nominate 
candidates  in  parliamentary  elections.  But  no  Islamic  party,  as  such, 
was  permitted,  and  major  sections  of  the  movement  remained  in 
intense,  often  violent  conflict  with  the  regime.  Thus,  the  move- 
ment was  only  partially  integrated  into  the  party  system. 

The  mainstream  of  the  movement,  the  Muslim  Brotherhood, 
was  a  coalition  led  by  ulama,  merchants,  and  lower-middle-class 
student  activists  commanding  a  following  in  the  traditional  urban 
quarters.  It  was  founded  as  a  radical  movement  in  the  1930s  by 
Hasan  al  Banna,  was  repressed  under  Nasser,  and  reemerged  in 
more  moderate  form  under  Sadat.  Umar  Tilmasani,  its  main  leader 
in  the  Sadat  era,  was  associated  with  the  infitah,  and  its  leader  there- 
after, Muhammad  Hamid  Abu  an  Nasr,  was  from  a  wealthy  pro- 
vincial family.  The  Brotherhood  was  split  along  generational  lines 
among  factions  loyal  to  its  various  previous  leaders.  These  factions 
included  the  more  radical  elements  loyal  to  the  founder,  the  con- 
servative Tilmasani  faction,  and  the  parliamentary  caucus  in  the 
late  1980s  led  by  Mahmud  al  Hudaibi,  son  of  the  second  Supreme 
Guide,  or  party  leader.  On  the  Brotherhood's  right  were  wealthy 
conservatives  who  justified  capitalism  in  the  language  of  religion. 
The  more  activist  J amaat  al  Islamiyah  (Islamic  Associations),  an 
amorphous  movement  of  many  small  groups,  were  drawn  from 
a  cross-section  of  the  student  population,  while  the  most  radical 
Islamic  groups,  such  as  At  Takfir  wal  Hijra  (Atonement  and  Alien- 
ation) and  Al  Jihad  (Holy  War),  were  made  up  of  educated,  lower- 
middle-class  elements  and  recent  urban  emigrants  from  the  village 
(see  Islam,  ch.  2,  Muslim  Extremism,  ch.  5).  Various  populist 
preachers  in  the  traditional  urban  neighborhoods  enjoyed  broad  per- 
sonal followings.  Whereas  the  movement  was  weak  among  indus- 
trial workers  and  peasants,  it  was  strongly  attractive  to  more  "margin- 
al" elements  such  as  educated,  unemployed,  rural  migrants  and  the 
traditional  mass  of  small  merchants  and  artisans.  All  the  Islamic  groups 
shared  a  rejection  of  both  Marxism  and  Westernization  in  the  name 


270 


Government  and  Politics 


of  an  Islamic  third  way  that  accepted  private  property  and  profit 
but  sought  to  contain  their  inegalitarian  consequences  by  a  moral 
code  and  a  welfare  state.  The  main  ideological  difference  between 
the  Islamic  groups  centered  on  the  means  for  reaching  an  Islamic 
order;  whereas  moderate  groups  advocated  peaceful  proselytiza- 
tion,  detente  with  the  regime,  and  work  through  established  insti- 
tutions, radical  groups  pursued  a  more  activist  challenge  to  the 
secular  order,  and  some  advocated  its  violent  overthrow. 

Elections 

The  pluralization  of  the  party  system  was  accompanied  by  a 
parallel  but  limited  opening  up  of  the  electoral  system.  Parliamen- 
tary elections  continued  to  be  held  even  after  the  1952  establish- 
ment of  an  authoritarian  system,  although  they  were  never  truly 
competitive  and  played  almost  no  role  in  recruitment  of  the  top 
elite,  which  was  selected  from  above.  The  elections  were  not 
meaningless,  however.  They  were  a  mechanism  by  which  the  re- 
gime coopted  into  parliament  politically  acceptable  local  notables, 
and  they  served  as  a  safety  valve  for  managing  the  pressures  for 
participation. 

During  the  period  of  single-party  elections  (1957-72),  govern- 
ment controls  were  tight,  and  candidates  were  screened  for  politi- 
cal loyalty  by  the  leading  Free  Officers  who  dominated  the  party. 
Some  choice  was  permitted  among  candidates,  who  normally  were 
authentic  local  notables,  and  the  personal  prestige  and  resources 
of  rival  candidates  often  decided  the  outcome.  In  the  1960s,  a  dual- 
member  constituency  system  was  introduced,  in  which  one  of  two 
seats  was  reserved  for  a  worker  or  peasant.  As  mentioned  earlier, 
this  system  was  a  largely  unsuccessful  attempt  to  draw  the  lower 
classes  into  the  electoral  process. 

Beginning  in  1976,  Sadat  permitted  competition  among  three 
proto-parties  of  the  left,  center,  and  right,  a  major  step  on  the  road 
to  a  more  open  political  process;  scores  of  independents  were  also 
allowed  to  run.  The  1979  elections,  in  which  antigovernment  can- 
didates running  against  the  peace  treaty  with  Israel  encountered 
a  wall  of  government  harassment  and  fraud,  represented  a  step 
backward  from  liberalization. 

The  1984  and  1987  elections  under  Mubarak,  however,  were  the 
most  open  and  competitive  elections  since  1952.  There  were  more 
parties,  because  the  New  Wafd  Party  and  the  NPUP,  excluded 
by  Sadat,  were  readmitted,  and  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  was  al- 
lowed to  run  individual  candidates  under  the  auspices  of  an  allied 
secular  party.  Because  campaigning  was  freer  and  more  extensive 
than  ever,  it  was  also  clearer  to  more  people  that  party  stands  on 


271 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

issues  were  important  in  the  elections.  But,  as  if  to  counter  this, 
the  government's  introduction  of  the  1984  Election  Law  meant  to 
exclude  smaller  parties  from  parliament:  no  party  that  received  less 
than  8  percent  of  the  vote  would  receive  seats,  and  its  votes  would 
be  added  to  the  party  achieving  a  plurality.  Moreover,  the  dual- 
member  constituency  system  was  replaced  with  large  multi- 
member districts  in  which  party  lists  competed.  This  arrangement 
diluted  the  influence  of  local  notables  vis-a-vis  the  government  but 
also  reduced  the  regime's  ability  to  coopt  them  because  many  re- 
fused to  run  for  election  under  these  conditions.  It  also  ended  the 
guarantee  of  half  of  the  seats  for  workers  and  peasants.  The  low 
turnout  for  elections  indicated  that  many  Egyptians  were  uncon- 
vinced that  voting  under  these  conditions  made  any  difference  to 
political  outcomes;  although  officials  announced  a  47  percent  1987 
turnout,  the  number  of  voters  was  actually  closer  to  25  percent. 

Even  under  the  relatively  open  multiparty  elections,  the  govern- 
ment party  continued  to  have  the  upper  hand  and  never  failed  to 
win  a  large  majority.  The  government  party  monopolized  the 
broadcast  media,  and  the  government  tried  to  restrict  opposition 
attempts  to  reach  the  voters.  The  Ministry  of  Interior  ran  the  elec- 
tions, in  which  the  ballot  was  not  really  secret;  it  mobilized  local 
headmen  on  the  side  of  government;  and  it  sometimes  resorted  to 
outright  stuffing  of  ballot  boxes.  Ruling-party  "toughs"  and  police 
often  intimidated  opposition  poll  watchers  and  voters.  The  govern- 
ment benefited  from  the  tendency  of  many  voters  to  support  the 
government  candidate  out  of  deference  to  authority,  hope  for  ad- 
vantage, or  realization  that  the  opposition  would  not  be  permitted 
a  majority.  Many  workers  and  peasants,  economically  dependent 
on  a  government  job  or  agricultural  services,  dared  not  antagonize 
the  government. 

Because  the  scope  of  opposition  on  issues  was  so  narrow,  the  per- 
sonal prestige  and  patronage  resources  of  candidates  played  a  major 
role  in  swaying  votes,  and  the  government  party  typically  coopted 
its  candidates  from  local  notables  with  such  resources.  Patronage 
could  range  from  the  distribution  of  chickens  at  election  time,  to 
the  promise  of  government  jobs  or  the  delivery  of  roads  and  utili- 
ties to  a  village,  to  the  refurbishing  of  the  local  mosque.  Voters 
were  also  influenced  by  the  prestige  of  wealth  and  profession,  the 
well-known  family  name  that  could  forge  intricate  patterns  of  fam- 
ily alliances,  and  the  national -level  stature  that  made  one  a  local 
"favorite  son."  Only  as  the  electoral  process  was  pluralized  did  ideol- 
ogies and  issues  come  to  play  a  role,  but  this  role  remained  limited; 
many  voters  either  lacked  political  consciousness  or  were  uncon- 
vinced of  the  efficacy  of  issue  voting  in  an  authoritarian  regime. 


272 


Buses  are  a  major  element  in  Cairo's  transportation. 

Courtesy  Susan  Becker 

Urban  middle-  and  working-class  voters  were  most  likely  to  vote 
on  an  issue  basis,  but  in  the  rural  areas  most  people  cast  their  votes 
for  the  notables  for  whom  they  worked  or  for  those  who  had  the 
government  connections  best  able  to  do  them  favors.  Thus,  the 
government  could  offset  the  votes  of  the  more  politically  conscious 
with  a  mass  of  rural  votes  delivered  on  a  clientage  basis. 

The  outcomes  of  the  four  multiparty  elections  reflected  a  cer- 
tain changing  balance  of  power  between  government  and  the  op- 
position and  among  the  competing  opposition  forces.  In  the  first 
multiparty  elections  of  1976,  the  government  center  faction  won 
280  of  350  seats;  the  right  (soon-to-be  Liberal  Party)  12;  and  the 
left  (soon-to-be  NPUP),  4.  In  addition,  there  were  forty-eight  in- 
dependents, some  of  whom  emerged  as  leading  opposition  figures. 
In  1979  Sadat,  having  repressed  the  NPUP  and  the  just-formed 
New  Wafd  Party,  allowed  only  one  supposedly  loyal  opposition 
party,  the  Socialist  Labor  Party,  to  compete,  and  the  government 
party  (the  NDP)  won  all  but  thirty  seats.  In  the  1984  elections, 
the  New  Wafd  Party  and  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  formed  a  joint 
ticket.  The  NDP  got  73  percent  of  the  vote  and  took  390  of  448 
seats,  whereas  the  New  Wafd  Party- Brotherhood  alliance  captured 
58  seats  with  15  percent  of  the  vote  and  emerged  as  the  main  op- 
position force.  The  smaller  parties  were  excluded  from  parliament 


273 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


by  the  8  percent  rule.  In  1987  the  New  Wafd  Party  ran  alone,  while 
the  small  Liberal  and  Socialist  Labor  parties  joined  with  the  Mus- 
lim Brotherhood  in  the  Islamic  Alliance.  The  New  Wafd  Party  won 
thirty-five  seats  and  the  Islamic  Alliance,  sixty.  Thus,  under  Mu- 
barak the  government  majority  remained  unchallengeable,  but  it 
had  declined,  and  the  New  Wafd  Party  and  the  Islamic  movement 
had  emerged  as  a  significant  opposition  presence  in  parliament. 
However,  the  exclusion  of  the  NPUP  from  parliament,  principal- 
ly through  the  1984  Election  Law,  marginalized  Egypt's  only  un- 
ambiguously populist  voice,  the  one  force  that  was  free  of  wealthy 
patrons  or  powerful  economic  interests  and  that  set  forth  an  alterna- 
tive noncapitalist  economic  program.  Parliament  remained  almost 
exclusively  a  preserve  of  the  bourgeoisie.  The  1987  elections  marked 
not  only  the  growing  influence  of  Islam  and  the  decline  of  the  secular 
left,  but  also  the  rise  of  a  new  Islamic-secular  cleavage  cutting  across 
class-based  rifts  and  putting  the  regime,  the  NPUP,  and  the  New 
Wafd  Party  on  the  same  side.  This  cross-cutting  tended  to  mute 
political  conflict  to  the  advantage  of  the  regime. 

Despite  their  seeming  inability  to  win  power,  the  opposition  par- 
ties had  a  real  function  as  "parties  of  pressure"  in  the  dominant 
party  system.  They  articulated  the  interests  and  values  of  sectors 
of  the  population  ignored  by  the  dominant  party.  They  helped  frame 
the  terms  of  public  debate  by  raising  issues  that  would  otherwise 
have  remained  off  the  public  agenda.  For  opposition  activists,  par- 
ticipation offered  the  chance  to  espouse  ideas,  to  shape  public  opin- 
ion, and  occasionally  even  to  influence  policy  because  if  they 
threatened  to  capture  enough  support,  they  might  force  the  govern- 
ment to  alter  its  course.  The  Liberal  Party  helped  advance  eco- 
nomic liberalization  under  Sadat,  while  the  NPUP  was  a  brake 
on  the  reversal  of  populist  policies.  The  Islamists  won  Islamiza- 
tion  concessions  from  the  secular  regime,  whereas  the  New  Wafd 
Party  helped  make  partial  political  liberalization  irreversible. 

A  party  of  pressure  might  also  act  as  an  interest  group  advocat- 
ing particular  interests  in  elite  circles  or  promoting  the  fortunes 
of  aspirant  politicians  hoping  for  cooptation.  Mubarak's  more  con- 
sensual style  of  rule  and  regular  consultation  with  opposition  leaders 
marginally  advanced  their  ability  to  influence  government  policy. 
For  example,  in  early  1990  Mubarak  bowed  to  an  opposition  cam- 
paign and  removed  the  unpopular  minister  of  interior,  Zaki  Badr. 
A  tacit  understanding  existed  between  government  and  opposition: 
the  latter  knew  if  it  went  too  far  in  challenging  the  regime,  it  invit- 
ed repression,  whereas  the  former  knew  if  it  were  too  unrespon- 
sive or  tightened  controls  too  much,  it  risked  antisystem  mobili- 
zation. 


274 


Government  and  Politics 


The  primary  consequence  of  the  system  in  the  short  run  was  the 
stabilization  of  the  regime.  The  divisions  in  the  opposition  allowed 
the  regime  to  play  them  against  each  other.  Secularists  were  pit- 
ted against  Islamists,  left  against  right.  The  opposition  parties  chan- 
neled much  political  activity  that  might  otherwise  have  taken  a 
covert,  even  violent,  antiregime  direction  into  more  tame,  manage- 
able forms.  Opposition  elites,  in  working  through  the  system, 
brought  their  followings  into  it;  a  sign  of  the  regime's  success  was 
the  incorporation  of  the  three  political  formations  that  had  been 
most  independent  under  Sadat — the  New  Wafd  Party,  the  Mus- 
lim Brotherhood,  and  the  NPUP — into  the  system  under  Mubarak. 

In  the  longer  run,  the  party  experiment  was  deepening  the 
pluralization  of  the  political  arena.  That  the  pluralization  begun 
under  Sadat  was  real  was  clear  from  the  persistence  of  all  the  par- 
ties then  founded.  They  proved  to  be  more  than  personalistic  or 
official  factions  and  either  revived  some  political  tradition  or  were 
rooted  in  an  underlying  social  cleavage  or  dissent  on  a  major  is- 
sue. The  rough  correspondence  between  the  ideologies  of  the  par- 
ties and  their  social  bases  indicated  a  "blocking  out"  of  the  political 
arena,  moving  Egyptian  politics  beyond  a  mere  competition  of  pa- 
trons and  shillas  without  social  roots.  This  pluralization  had, 
however,  only  begun  to  seep  down  to  the  level  of  the  mass  public, 
much  of  which  remained  politically  apathetic  or  attached  to  tradi- 
tional client  networks.  The  dominant  party  system  had  adapted 
sufficiently  to  the  level  of  pluralization  in  the  1980s  to  impart  a 
crucial  element  of  stability  to  the  regime. 

The  Limits  of  Incorporation:  The  Rise  of  Political  Islam  and  the 
Continuing  Role  of  Repression 

The  social  base  of  the  state  under  Sadat  and  Mubarak  was  un- 
doubtedly narrower  than  it  had  been  under  Nasser.  In  some  ways, 
it  was  more  solid.  It  rested  on  the  hard-core  support  of  the  most 
strategic  social  force,  the  bourgeoisie,  which  had  a  major  stake  in 
its  survival,  and  it  at  least  partially  incorporated  elements  of  the 
opposition  through  the  party/interest  group  structure  created  un- 
der limited  liberalization.  Yet,  although  the  parties  articulated  in- 
terests, they  did  not,  as  in  strong  party  systems,  incorporate  a  large 
mobilized  public  or  the  interests  of  the  masses  into  the  making  of 
public  policies.  There  was  still  an  institutional  gap  between  public 
wishes  and  policy  outcomes;  decisions,  still  made  in  limited  elite 
circles,  therefore  enjoyed  little  societal  support.  Moreover,  the 
regime  still  lacked  the  ideological  legitimacy  to  win  the  loyalty  of 
the  masses.  By  the  middle  of  the  1980s,  as  economic  expansion 
gave  way  to  austerity,  the  challenge  of  mass  control  became  ever 


275 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

more  burdensome.  The  limits  of  the  regime's  capacity  to  incor- 
porate dissident  factions  left  the  door  open  to  the  rise  of  a  counter- 
elite  in  the  form  of  the  Islamic  movement,  and  the  regime  had  to 
continue  to  rely  on  coercion  and  repression  to  stave  off  dissent  and 
rebellion. 

The  development  of  the  Islamic  movement  in  the  1980s  was  the 
most  significant  change  in  the  political  arena  and  one  with  the  poten- 
tial to  transform  the  system.  Sadat  originally  unleashed  the  move- 
ment against  his  leftist  opponents,  but  as  Westernization  and  the 
infitah  advanced,  the  Islamic  movement  became  a  vehicle  of  oppo- 
sition, sometimes  violent,  to  his  regime.  He  attempted  to  curb  it, 
but  under  Mubarak  it  took  on  new  dimensions.  The  more  violent 
messianic  groups,  such  as  Al  Jihad,  were  the  targets  of  continual 
repression  and  containment,  apparently  only  partly  successful. 
Their  destabilizing  potential  was  indicated  by  their  role  in  the  as- 
sassination of  Sadat,  a  major  rebellion  they  mounted  in  Asyut  at 
that  time,  a  1986  wave  of  attacks  on  video  shops  and  Westernized 
boutiques,  and  assassination  attempts  against  high  officials.  The 
regime  responded  by  arresting  thousands  of  these  radical  activists. 
Another  Islamic  body,  the  Jamaat  al  Islamiyah,  recovered  the  con- 
trol of  the  student  unions  Sadat  tried  to  break.  In  the  mid-1980s, 
they  won  twice  the  number  of  votes  of  the  NDP  in  student  union 
elections,  and  the  secular  opposition  was  squeezed  out.  The  left 
made  inroads  in  their  dominance  toward  the  end  of  the  decade, 
however.  Radical  groups  belonging  to  Jamaat  al  Islamiyah  tried 
to  impose  a  puritanical,  sometimes  anti-Coptic,  Islamic  regime  on 
the  campuses  and  in  the  towns  of  Upper  Egypt,  where  local  govern- 
ment sometimes  bowed  to  their  demands.  More  moderate  groups 
in  Jamaat  al  Islamiyah  could  turn  out  large  disciplined  crowds  for 
public  prayer,  the  nearest  thing  to  a  mass  demonstration  that  the 
regime  reluctantly  permitted.  A  major  contest  was  waged  over 
Egypt's  40,000  mosques;  the  government  sought  to  appoint  imams 
but  had  too  few  reliable  candidates,  while  the  movement  sought 
to  wrest  control  of  these  major  potential  centers  of  Islamic 
propaganda. 

The  influence  of  Islamic  groups  in  poor  urban  neighborhoods 
seemed  to  grow  in  the  1980s.  In  1985  when  parliament  rejected 
immediate  application  of  the  sharia,  Islamic  agitation  led  by  Shaykh 
Hafiz  Salama  swept  Cairo,  and  in  the  late  1980s  bitter  clashes  oc- 
curred in  Ayn  Shams  between  a  kind  of  Islamic  "shadow  govern- 
ment" there  and  the  security  forces.  Although  Islamic  militants 
were  certainly  a  minority  and  were  even  resented  by  a  good  por- 
tion of  the  public,  their  activism  in  a  largely  passive  political  arena 
gave  them  great  power.  The  government  tried  to  drive  a  wedge 


276 


Government  and  Politics 


between  the  more  militant  youth  groups  and  the  Islamic  main- 
stream; thus,  in  1989  Shaykh  Muhammad  Mutwalli  Sharawi,  a 
prestigious  and  popular  preacher,  was  brought  to  denounce  the 
use  of  violence  in  the  name  of  Islam. 

The  Islamic  mainstream,  possessed  of  increasing  cohesion,  or- 
ganization, and  mobilizational  capability,  rapidly  took  advantage 
of  the  legitimate  channels  of  activity  opened  by  the  regime  under 
Mubarak.  The  mainstream  Muslim  Brotherhood  and  its  conser- 
vative cousins  were  incorporated  into  parliament;  they  infiltrated 
the  parties,  the  judiciary,  and  the  press;  and  they  generally  put 
secular  forces  on  the  defensive.  The  more  the  secular  opposition 
proved  impotent  to  wrest  a  share  of  power  from  the  regime,  the 
more  dissidents  seemed  to  turn  to  political  Islam  as  the  only  viable 
alternative.  A  dramatic  indicator  of  this  was  the  substantial  repre- 
sentation Islamists  won  in  the  professional  syndicates,  especially 
the  doctors'  union,  traditionally  bastions  of  the  liberal,  upper-middle 
class;  only  the  lawyers'  and  journalists'  unions  resisted  their  sway. 
Victories  indicative  of  Islamic  influence  included  the  reversal  of 
Sadat's  law  of  personal  status  that  gave  women  some  modest  rights, 
a  decision  by  certain  state  companies  to  cease  hiring  women  so  they 
could  take  their  "proper  place  in  the  home,"  and  a  constitutional 
amendment  making  sharia  the  sole  basis  of  legislation.  Islamic  sen- 
timent and  practices  were  widespread  in  the  1980s.  Filling  the  vacu- 
um left  by  the  withering  of  state  populism,  the  Islamic  movement 
constructed  an  alternative  social  infrastructure — mosques,  clinics, 
cooperatives — to  bring  the  masses  under  Islamic  leadership. 

The  movement  was  backed  by  the  power  of  Islamic  banking  and 
investment  houses,  an  enigmatic  development  that  possibly  was 
filling  the  gap  left  by  the  decline  of  the  state  economy.  Claiming 
to  represent  an  alternative  economic  way,  these  Islamic  banks  ini- 
tially seemed  better  positioned  than  government  or  foreign  banks 
to  mobilize  the  savings  of  ordinary  people.  Yet,  while  the  Islamic 
movement  grew  up  in  opposition  to  Westernization  and  the  infitah, 
these  institutions  were  linked  to  entrepreneurs  enriched  in  the  oil 
states  who  made  huge  profits  on  the  same  international  connec- 
tions and  through  many  of  the  same  speculative  financial,  black- 
market,  and  tertiary  enterprises  infitah  had  encouraged.  As  scan- 
dals shook  public  confidence  in  them,  the  government  moved  to 
curb  their  autonomy.  But  their  tentacles  reached  into  the  political 
system.  They  were  major  contributors  to  the  ruling  NDP  and  had 
forged  alliances  with  the  New  Wafd  Party  and  the  Islamic  Alli- 
ance as  well.  It  was  unclear  by  1990  whether  the  effect  of  Islamic 
banking  institutions  would  be  to  incorporate  ordinary  Egyptians 
into  a  more  indigenous,  broader-based  capitalism  adjusted  to  the 


277 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


infitah  regime,  to  provide  the  economic  basis  for  an  alternative  socio- 
political order,  or  to  prove  a  mere  flash  in  the  pan.  The  regime's 
mix  of  hostility  and  wary  tolerance  toward  them  suggested  it  was 
not  sure  itself. 

The  Islamic  movement  thus  emerged  as  a  powerful  cross-class 
political  alliance,  a  potential  counterestablishment.  As  its  economic 
and  political  power  grew,  however,  there  were  signs  that  its  anti- 
regime  populism  was  being  overshadowed  by  the  emergence  of  a 
bourgeois  leadership  preaching  conservative  values:  class  deference, 
respect  for  elders,  female  submission,  the  right  to  a  fair  profit,  and 
the  superiority  of  the  private  sector.  To  the  extent  that  its  program 
thus  became  indistinguishable,  except  in  symbolism,  from  regime 
policies,  a  gap  threatened  to  separate  this  leadership  from  its  ple- 
beian following,  splitting  or  enervating  the  movement.  If  the  bour- 
geois leadership  prevailed,  the  outcome  was  likely  to  be  a  gradual 
cooptation  of  the  Islamic  movement  and  Islamization  of  the  regime 
rather  than  Islamic  revolution. 

To  the  extent  control  mechanisms  proved  inadequate,  a  role  re- 
mained for  coercion  and  repression  in  the  political  system.  Under 
Nasser  coercive  controls  were  very  tight  although  largely  directed 
at  the  upper  class  and  limited  numbers  of  middle-class  opposition 
activists.  Sadat  initially  relaxed  controls,  particularly  over  the  bour- 
geoisie, but  when  opposition  became  too  insistent,  he  did  not  hesi- 
tate to  repress  it.  His  massive  1981  purge  showed  how  quickly  the 
regime  could  change  from  conciliation  to  repression.  Under  the 
more  tolerant  Mubarak  regime,  political  freedoms  were  still  un- 
equally enjoyed.  Dissent  within  regime  institutions  was  tolerated, 
but  when  it  crossed  the  line  into  mass  action — such  as  Islamic  street 
demonstrations  for  implementation  of  sharia  and  anti-Israeli  pro- 
tests— it  was  regularly  repressed.  Strikes  were  also  regularly  smashed 
with  the  use  of  force.  The  regime  continued  to  round  up  leftist  and 
Islamic  dissidents,  charging  them  with  belonging  to  illegal  organi- 
zations or  spreading  antigovernment  propaganda,  apparently  part 
of  a  strategy  to  keep  dissent  within  manageable  bounds.  Indeed, 
the  regime  went  so  far  as  to  arrest  whole  families  of  political  dissi- 
dents and  to  hold  them  as  virtual  hostages  in  order  to  pressure  sus- 
pects to  surrender. 

The  security  apparatus,  more  massive  than  ever,  contained  the 
main  episodes  of  violent  challenge  to  the  regime — notably  the  food 
riots  and  localized  Islamic  uprisings  at  Sadat's  death.  The  Minis- 
try of  Interior  presided  over  several  coercive  arms  including  the 
General  Directorate  for  State  Security  Investigations  (GDSSI),  the 
domestic  security  organization,  and  the  gendarmerie-like  Central 


278 


Government  and  Politics 


Security  Forces;  behind  the  police  stood  the  army  itself  (see  Inter- 
nal Security,  ch.  5).  But  there  were  signs  that  these  forces  were 
neither  totally  reliable  nor  effective.  In  the  1977  riots,  the  army 
reputedly  refused  to  intervene  unless  the  government  rescinded  the 
price  rises,  and  scattered  Nasserite  and  Islamic  dissidence  in  the 
military  continued  in  the  1980s.  There  were  rivalries  between  the 
army  and  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  and  disagreements  inside  the 
latter  over  whether  dialogue  or  the  iron  fist  could  best  deal  with 
opposition.  In  1986  the  CSF  itself  revolted.  Although  the  rebel- 
lion had  no  political  program  and  was  mainly  sparked  by  worsen- 
ing treatment  of  the  lower  ranks,  it  signaled  that  the  use  of  conscripts 
from  the  poorest  sectors  of  society  to  contain  radical  opposition  to 
a  bourgeois  regime  was  ever  more  risky.  Yet  the  regime  continued 
thereafter  to  use  the  CSF  against  students,  strikers,  and  Islamic 
militants.  Finally,  the  assassination  of  Sadat  after  his  crackdown 
onl2the  opposition  showed  that  coercion  could  run  two  ways;  ac- 
cording to  its  perpetrators,  their  purpose  was  "to  warn  all  who  come 
after  him  and  teach  them  a  lesson." 

Foreign  Policy 

The  Determinants  of  Foreign  Policy 

Geopolitics  inevitably  shaped  Egypt's  foreign  policy.  Egypt  oc- 
cupies a  strategic  position  as  a  landbridge  between  two  continents 
and  a  link  between  two  principal  waterways,  the  Mediterranean 
Sea  and  the  Indian  Ocean.  It  must  therefore  be  strong  enough  to 
dominate  its  environment  or  risk  becoming  the  victim  of  outside 
powers.  Its  security  is  also  linked  to  control  of  the  Nile,  on  whose 
waters  its  survival  depends.  It  has,  therefore,  had  historical  ties 
with  Sudan  and  has  sought  satisfactory  relations  with  the  states  on 
Sudan's  southern  borders,  Uganda  and  Zaire.  The  landbridge  to 
Asia,  route  of  potential  conquerors,  had  also  to  be  secured,  and 
Egyptian  rulers  traditionally  tried  to  project  their  power  into  Syr- 
ia and  Arabia,  often  in  contest  with  other  powers  in  Anatolia 
(present-day  Turkey),  or  the  Euphrates  River  valley  (present-day 
Iraq).  In  contemporary  times,  Israel,  backed  by  a  superpower,  lo- 
cated on  Egypt's  border,  and  blocking  its  access  to  the  east,  was 
perceived  as  the  greatest  threat  to  Egyptian  security. 

Egypt  was  also  politically  strategic.  As  Nasser  saw  it,  with  con- 
siderable justice,  Egypt  was  potentially  at  the  center  of  three  "cir- 
cles," the  African,  the  Arab,  and  the  Islamic.  Egypt  viewed  itself 
as  playing  a  major  role  in  Africa  and,  beyond  that,  was  long  a  lead- 
ing mover  in  the  wider  Third  World  camp  and  a  major  advocate 
of  neutralism  and  nonalignment.  This  geopolitical  importance  made 


279 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


the  country  the  object  of  interest  to  the  great  powers,  and  when 
Egypt  was  strong  enough,  as  under  Nasser,  allowed  it  to  play  the 
great  powers  against  each  other  and  win  political  support  and  eco- 
nomic and  military  aid  from  all  sides.  Even  the  weakened  Egypt 
of  Mubarak  was  able  to  parlay  its  strategic  importance  in  the  Arab- 
Israeli  conflict  and  as  a  bulwark  against  Islamic  political  activism 
into  political  support  and  economic  aid  from  both  the  West  and 
the  Arab  world. 

A  second  constant  that  shaped  Egypt's  foreign  policy  was  its 
Arab-Islamic  character.  To  be  sure,  Egypt  had  a  long  pre-Islamic 
heritage  that  gave  it  a  distinct  identity,  and  in  periods  such  as  the 
British  occupation  it  developed  apart  from  the  Arab  world.  Egypt's 
national  identity  was  never  merged  in  an  undifferentiated  Arabism; 
Egyptians  were  shaped  by  their  own  distinct  geography,  history, 
dialect,  and  customs.  But  the  content  of  Egyptian  identity  was  in- 
disputably Arab-Islamic.  Egypt  was  inextricably  a  part  of  the  Arab 
world.  It  was  the  largest  Arabic- speaking  country  and  the  intellec- 
tual and  political  center  to  which  the  whole  Arab  world  looked  in 
modern  times.  It  was  also  a  center  of  Islamic  civilization,  its  Al 
Azhar  University  one  of  Islam's  major  religious  institutions  and 
its  popular  culture  profoundly  Islamic.  Although  a  portion  of  the 
most  Westernized  upper  class  at  times  saw  Egypt  as  Mediterrane- 
an or  pharaonic  (see  Glossary),  for  the  overwhelming  majority, 
Egypt's  identity  was  Arab-Islamic. 

Indeed,  Egypt  saw  itself  as  the  leader  of  the  Arab  world,  enti- 
tled to  preeminence  in  proportion  to  the  heavy  burdens  it  bore  in 
defense  of  the  Arab  cause.  This  Arab-Islamic  identity  was  a  great 
asset  for  Egyptian  leaders.  To  the  extent  that  Egyptian  leadership 
was  acknowledged  in  the  Arab  world,  this  prestige  bolstered  the 
stature  of  the  ruler  at  home,  entitled  Egypt  to  a  portion  of  Arab 
oil  wealth,  and  gave  credence  to  Egypt's  ability  to  define  a  com- 
mon Arab  policy,  hence  increasing  the  country's  strategic  weight 
in  world  affairs.  This  leadership  position  also  meant  that  Egypt 
was  a  natural  part  of  the  inter- Arab  power  balance,  typically  em- 
broiled in  the  rivalries  that  split  the  Arab  world  and  a  part  of  the 
solidarities  that  united  it.  In  the  1950s,  modernizing,  nationalist 
Egypt's  rivals  were  traditional  pro- Western  Iraq  and  Saudi  Ara- 
bia, and  its  main  ally  was  Syria.  In  the  1970s,  an  alliance  of  Egypt, 
Syria,  and  Saudi  Arabia  led  the  Arab  world  in  its  search  for  peace 
with  honor;  when  Sadat  made  a  separate  peace,  Syria  became 
Egypt's  main  rival.  The  country's  Arab-Islamic  identity  also  put 
certain  constraints  on  foreign-policy  decision  makers:  to  violate  it 
risked  the  legitimacy  of  the  whole  regime. 


280 


Government  and  Politics 


Finally,  Egypt's  foreign  policy  was  pulled  in  contrary  directions 
by  the  ideals  of  anti-imperialist  nonalignment  and  the  webs  of  de- 
pendency in  which  the  country  was  increasingly  enmeshed.  Egypt's 
long  history  of  subordination  to  foreign  rulers,  especially  Europe- 
an imperialism,  produced  an  inferiority  complex,  an  intense  anti- 
imperialism,  a  quest  for  dignity,  and,  particularly  under  Nasser, 
a  powerful  national  pride  among  Egyptians.  Egypt's  national  ideal 
was  to  be  independent  of  both  East  and  West,  to  be  a  strong  prosper- 
ous state,  to  stand  up  to  Israel,  and  to  lead  the  Arab  world.  Yet,  as 
a  poverty-stricken  developing  country  and  a  new  state  actor  in  the 
international  power  game,  Egypt  could  not  do  without  large  amounts 
of  economic  aid  and  military  assistance  from  the  advanced  econo- 
mies and  the  great  powers.  Such  dependency,  of  course,  carried 
heavy  costs  and  threats  to  national  independence.  The  problem  of  de- 
pendency could  be  minimized  by  diversifying  aid  sources,  and  Nasser 
initially  pursued  a  policy  of  balance  between  East  and  West,  which 
won  aid  from  both  sides  and  minimized  dependence  on  any  one. 

United  States  support  for  Israel  after  the  June  1967  War  made 
Egypt  ever  more  dependent  on  the  Soviet  Union  for  military  aid 
and  protection,  but  this  dependence  was,  in  part,  balanced  by  in- 
creasing financial  aid  from  the  conservative  Arab  oil  states.  By  the 
late  1970s,  Sadat,  in  choosing  to  rely  on  American  diplomacy  to 
recover  Egyptian  land  from  Israel  and  in  allowing  his  ties  to  the 
Soviet  Union  and  the  Arab  world  to  wither,  had  led  Egypt  into 
heavy  economic  and  military  dependency  on  the  United  States. 
This  dependency,  by  precluding  foreign-policy  decisions  displeas- 
ing to  Israel  and  Washington,  sharply  limited  Egypt's  pursuit  of 
a  vigorous  Arab  and  independent  foreign  policy.  The  basic  dilem- 
ma of  Egypt's  foreign  policy  was  that  its  dependence  on  foreign 
assistance  conflicted  with  its  aspiration  for  national  independence 
and  its  concept  of  its  role  as  an  Arab-Islamic  and  traditionally  non- 
aligned  entity. 

Foreign  Policy  Decision  Making 

The  great  risks  and  opportunities  inherent  in  Egypt's  foreign 
relations  made  it  inevitable  that  foreign  policy  dominated  the  lead- 
er's  political  agenda.  Performance  on  foreign  policy  could  make 
or  break  the  leadership.  Nasser's  charisma  was  rooted  above  all  in 
his  nationalist  victories  over  "imperialism,"  and  the  decline  of  Nas- 
serism  was  a  direct  function  of  Egypt's  1967  defeat  by  Israel;  simi- 
larly, Sadat's  achievements  in  the  October  1973  War  gave  him 
legitimacy,  whereas  his  separate  peace  with  Israel  destroyed  it. 

It  was  not  surprising,  therefore,  that  foreign  policy  was  virtual- 
ly a  "reserved  sphere"  of  the  presidency.  Nasser  concentrated  and 


281 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

personalized  foreign  policy  decision  making  in  his  own  hands,  taking 
alone  such  crucial  decisions  as  the  nationalization  of  the  Suez  Canal. 
Sadat  asserted  a  similar  prerogative;  a  major  issue  in  the  power 
struggle  with  left-wing  Free  Officers  after  Nasser's  death  was  Sadat's 
insistence  on  his  right  to  make  independent  foreign  policy  deci- 
sions, such  as  his  offer  to  open  the  Suez  Canal  in  return  for  a  par- 
tial Israeli  withdrawal  from  its  banks  and  his  decision  to  join  the 
Federation  of  Arab  Republics  with  Libya  and  Syria.  Once  he  con- 
solidated his  power,  Sadat  continued  the  tradition  of  presidential 
decision  making  in  foreign  policy,  making  many  decisions  in  defi- 
ance of  elite  opinion  and  in  disregard  of  professional  military  and 
diplomatic  advice.  In  crucial  negotiations  over  Sinai  I  and  Sinai 
II,  the  disengagement  agreements  with  Israel  after  the  October  1973 
War,  he  excluded  his  top  advisers  from  key  sessions  with  United 
States  secretary  of  state  Henry  Kissinger  and  overrode  their  ob- 
jections to  many  details  of  these  agreements.  He  made  his  momen- 
tous decision  to  go  to  Jerusalem  without  even  bothering  to  create 
an  elite  consensus  behind  him.  As  a  result,  both  the  minister  of 
foreign  affairs  and  his  deputy  resigned.  Sadat  allowed  his  top  gener- 
als little  say  at  Camp  David.  His  unilateral  concessions  so  often 
undermined  the  hand  of  his  diplomats  in  the  negotiations  over  the 
peace  treaty  with  Israel  that  they  sought  to  keep  the  Israelis  away 
from  him.  Mubarak  inherited  the  tradition  of  presidential  domi- 
nance in  foreign  policy,  but  he  seemed  to  make  his  decisions  in 
closer  consultation  with  his  advisers,  such  as  Usamah  al  Baz,  Butrus 
Butrus  Ghali,  and  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  Ismat  Abdul  Majid. 

Despite  presidential  dominance,  the  Egyptian  foreign  policy 
bureaucracy  was  the  most  sophisticated  and  influential  in  the  Arab 
world.  Under  the  minister  of  foreign  affairs  was  a  minister  of  state 
for  foreign  affairs,  a  position  long  held  by  Butrus  Ghali.  Under 
them  were  a  first  undersecretary  and  a  series  of  other  undersecre- 
taries in  charge  of  geographical  areas  (America,  Africa,  Asia,  Eu- 
rope) and  functional  departments  (economic  affairs,  cultural  affairs, 
and  the  like).  Al  Ahram's  Center  for  Political  and  Strategic  Studies 
acted  as  a  think  tank  in  support  of  decision  makers.  Career  diplo- 
mats were  recruited  chiefly  through  competitive  examinations  and 
trained  at  the  Egyptian  Diplomatic  Institute.  In  1982  Egypt  had 
diplomatic  relations  with  95  foreign  countries  and  had  more  than 
1,000  diplomatic  service  officers. 

The  Development  of  Foreign  Policy 

Despite  certain  constants,  Egyptian  foreign  policy  underwent 
substantial  evolution  shaped  by  the  differing  values  and  percep- 
tions of  the  country's  presidents  and  the  changing  constraints  and 


282 


i 


Tolls  from  ships  on  the  Suez  Canal  are  a  major  source 

of  Egypt 's  foreign  exchange. 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Egypt,  Washington 

opportunities  of  its  environment.  Under  Nasser  the  core  of  the  re- 
gime's ideology  and  the  very  basis  of  its  legitimacy  was  radical 
nationalism.  Nasser  sought  to  end  the  legacy  of  Egypt's  long  politi- 
cal subordination  to  Western  imperialism,  to  restore  its  Arab- 
Islamic  identity  diluted  by  a  century  of  Westernization,  and  to 
launch  independent  national  economic  development.  He  also  aimed 
to  replace  Western  domination  of  the  Arab  states  with  Egyptian 
leadership  of  a  nonaligned  Arab  world  and  thus  to  forestall  security 
threats  and  to  enhance  Egypt's  stature  as  head  of  a  concert  of 
kindred  states. 

Nasser's  foreign  policy  seemed,  until  1967,  a  qualified  success. 
He  adeptly  exploited  changes  in  the  international  balance  of  pow- 
er, namely  the  local  weakening  of  Western  imperialism,  the  Soviet 
challenge  to  Western  dominance,  and  the  national  awakening  of 
the  Arab  peoples,  to  win  a  series  of  significant  nationalist  victo- 
ries. The  long- sought  British  withdrawal  from  Egypt,  the  defeat 
of  the  security  pacts  by  which  the  West  sought  to  harness  the  Arabs 
against  the  Soviet  Union,  the  successful  nationalization  of  the  Suez 
Canal,  and  the  failure  of  the  1956  French-British-Israeli  invasion 
put  Egypt  at  the  head  of  an  aroused  Arab  nationalist  movement 
and  resulted  in  a  substantial  retreat  of  Western  control  from  the 


283 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Middle  East.  This  policy  also  won  political  and  economic  benefits 
internally.  The  Arab  adulation  of  Nasser  was  a  major  component 
of  the  regime's  legitimacy.  It  was  as  leader  of  the  Arab  world  that 
Egypt  won  substantial  foreign  assistance  from  both  East  and  West. 

Nasser's  success  was,  of  course,  only  relative  to  the  failure  of  pre- 
vious Arab  leaders,  and  his  policies  had  mounting  costs.  The  other 
Arab  regimes  were  unwilling  to  accept  Egyptian  hegemony  and, 
although  largely  on  the  defensive,  worked  to  thwart  Nasser's  effort 
to  impose  a  foreign  policy  consensus  on  the  Arab  world.  The  effort 
to  project  Egyptian  influence  drained  the  country's  resources;  Egyp- 
tian intervention  in  support  of  the  republican  revolution  (1962-70) 
in  the  Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North  Yemen)  was  particularly  costly. 
Generally,  Nasser's  Egypt  failed  to  become  the  Prussia  of  the  Arab 
world,  but  it  played  the  decisive  role  in  the  emergence  of  an  Arab 
state  system  independent  of  overt  foreign  control. 

Pan- Arab  leadership,  however,  carried  heavy  responsibilities, 
including  above  all  the  defense  of  the  Arab  world  and  the  champi- 
oning of  the  Arab  and  Palestinian  cause  against  Israel.  These 
responsibilities,  which  entailed  grave  economic  burdens  and  secu- 
rity risks,  eventually  led  Nasser  into  the  disastrous  June  1967  War 
with  Israel.  Nasser  did  not  seek  a  war,  but  he  allowed  circumstances 
to  bring  on  one  that  caught  him  unprepared.  Nasser's  challenge 
to  Western  interests  in  the  region  had  earned  him  accumulated 
resentment  in  the  West,  where  many  perceived  him  as  a  Soviet 
client  who  should  be  brought  down.  At  the  same  time,  a  rising 
Syrian-Palestinian  challenge  to  Israel  was  peaking,  threatening  to 
provoke  an  Israeli  attack  on  Syria.  Despite  an  unfavorable  mili- 
tary balance,  Nasser,  as  leader  of  the  Arab  world,  was  obliged  to 
deter  Israel  by  mobilizing  on  its  southern  front.  The  mobilization 
opened  the  door  to  an  Israeli  "first  strike"  against  Egypt.  The  rapid 
collapse  of  the  Egyptian  army  in  the  war  showed  how  far  Nasser's 
foreign  policy  ambitions  had  exceeded  his  capabilities.  Israel  oc- 
cupied Egypt's  Sinai  Peninsula.  The  same  nationalist  foreign  policy 
by  which  Nasser  had  ended  the  Western  domination  of  Egypt  had 
led  him  into  a  trap  that  entrenched  a  new  foreign  presence  on  Egyp- 
tian soil. 

Nasser's  response  to  the  crisis  was  twofold.  In  accepting  the  plan 
of  United  States  secretary  of  state  William  P.  Rogers,  he  signaled 
Egypt's  readiness  for  a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  Arab-Israeli  con- 
flict. This  meant  the  acceptance  of  Israel  and  acknowledged  the 
role  of  the  United  States  as  a  dominant  power  broker  in  the  Mid- 
dle East.  Convinced  that  diplomacy  alone,  however,  would  never 
recover  Sinai  and  skeptical  of  United  States  intentions,  he  launched 
a  major  overhaul  and  expansion  of  the  armed  forces  and  in  the 


284 


Government  and  Politics 


War  of  Attrition  (1969-70)  contested  Israel's  hold  on  the  Sinai 
Peninsula.  But  the  shattering  of  Egyptian  self-confidence  in  the  1967 
defeat,  the  growing  belief  that  the  Soviet  Union  would  not  supply 
the  offensive  weapons  for  a  military  recovery  of  Sinai,  and  the  con- 
viction that  the  United  States  would  keep  Israel  strong  enough  to 
repulse  any  such  recovery  combined  to  convince  a  growing  por- 
tion of  the  Egyptian  political  elite  that  the  United  States  "held  the 
cards"  to  a  solution  and  that  Cairo  would  have  to  come  to  terms 
with  Washington. 

Sadat  came  to  power  ready  for  a  diplomatic  opening  to  the  West, 
a  political  solution  to  the  crisis,  and  a  compromise  setdement,  even 
if  it  were  a  partial  one.  He  sought  a  United  States-sponsored  peace, 
believing  that  only  those  who  provided  the  Israelis  with  the  means 
of  occupation  had  the  means  to  end  it.  The  expulsion  of  the  Soviet 
advisers  from  Egypt  in  1972  was  in  part  an  effort  to  court  Ameri- 
can favor.  He  also  struck  a  close  alliance  with  the  conservative  Arab 
oil  states,  headed  by  Saudi  Arabia,  whose  influence  in  Washing- 
ton, money,  and  potential  to  use  the  "oil  weapon"  were  crucial 
elements  in  building  Egyptian  leverage  with  Israel.  Once  it  was 
clear  that  Egypt's  interests  would  be  ignored  until  Egyptians  showed 
they  could  fight  and  upset  a  status  quo  comfortable  to  Israel  and 
the  United  States,  Sadat  turned  seriously  to  war  as  an  option.  But 
rather  than  a  war  to  recapture  Sinai,  he  decided  on  a  strictly  limited 
one  to  establish  a  bridgehead  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Suez  Canal 
as  a  way  of  breaking  the  Israeli  grip  on  the  area  and  opening  the 
way  for  negotiations.  Such  a  limited  war,  Sadat  calculated,  would 
rally  the  Arab  world  around  Egypt,  bring  the  oil  weapon  into  play, 
challenge  Israel's  reliance  on  security  through  territorial  expan- 
sion, and,  above  all,  pave  the  way  for  a  United  States  diplomatic 
intervention  that  would  force  Israel  to  accept  a  peaceful  settlement. 
The  price  of  an  American  peace,  however,  would  almost  certainly 
be  an  end  to  Egypt's  anti-imperialist  Arab  nationalist  policy. 

The  October  1973  War  did  upset  the  status  quo  and  ended  with 
Egyptian  forces  in  Sinai.  But  because  Israeli  forces  had  penetrat- 
ed the  west  bank  of  the  Suez  Canal,  Sadat  badly  needed  and  ac- 
cepted a  United  States-sponsored  disengagement  of  forces.  Sinai 
I  removed  the  Israelis  from  the  west  bank  but,  in  defusing  the  war 
crisis,  also  reduced  Arab  leverage  in  bargaining  for  an  overall  Is- 
raeli withdrawal.  In  subsequently  allowing  his  relations  with  the 
Soviet  Union  and  Syria  to  deteriorate  and  hence  decreasing  the 
viability  of  war  as  an  option,  Sadat  became  so  dependent  on  United 
States  diplomacy  that  he  had  little  choice  but  to  accept  a  second  par- 
tial and  separate  agreement,  Sinai  II,  in  which  Egypt  recovered 
further  territory  but  was  allowed  a  mere  token  military  force  in 


285 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Sinai.  This  agreement  so  undermined  Arab  leverage  that  negotia- 
tions for  a  comprehensive  peace  stalled.  A  frustrated  Sadat,  hop- 
ing to  win  world  support  and  weaken  Israeli  hard-liners,  embarked 
on  his  trip  to  Jerusalem.  Even  if  Israel  refused  concessions  to  Syria 
or  the  Palestinians,  it  might  thereby  be  brought  to  relinquish  Sinai 
in  return  for  a  separate  peace  that  took  Egypt  out  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
power  balance. 

At  Camp  David  and  in  the  subsequent  negotiations  over  a  peace 
treaty,  Sadat  found  out  just  how  much  his  new  diplomatic  curren- 
cy would  purchase:  a  return  of  Sinai  and,  at  most,  a  relaxation 
of  Israeli  control  over  the  West  Bank  ("autonomy"),  but  no  Pales- 
tinian state  (see  Peace  with  Israel,  ch.  1).  By  1979  Egypt  was  fi- 
nally at  peace.  But  because  the  separate  peace  removed  any 
remaining  incentive  for  Israel  to  settle  on  the  other  fronts,  Egypt 
was  ostracized  from  the  Arab  world,  forfeiting  its  leadership  and 
the  aid  to  which  this  had  entitled  the  country. 

Simultaneously,  as  Sadat  broke  his  links  with  the  Soviet  Union 
and  the  Arab  states  and  needed  the  United  States  increasingly  to 
mediate  with  the  Israelis,  to  provide  arms,  and  to  fill  the  aid  gap, 
Sadat  moved  Egypt  into  an  ever  closer  alliance  with  the  United 
States.  Particularly  after  the  fall  of  the  shah  of  Iran,  he  openly 
seemed  to  assume  the  role  of  guardian  of  United  States  interests 
in  the  area.  Joint  military  maneuvers  were  held,  facilities  granted 
to  United  States  forces,  and  Egyptian  troops  deployed  to  prop  up 
conservative  regimes,  such  as  that  of  Zaire.  Sadat  seemingly  rea- 
soned that  Washington's  support  for  Israel  derived  from  its  role 
in  protecting  United  States  interests  in  the  area,  and  if  he  could 
arrogate  that  role  to  himself,  then  Egypt  would  be  eligible  for  the 
same  aid  and  support  and  the  importance  of  Israel  to  Washington 
would  decline.  The  Egypt  that  had  led  the  fight  to  expel  Western 
influence  from  the  Arab  world  now  welcomed  it  back. 

Mubarak's  main  foreign  policy  challenge  was  to  resolve  the  con- 
tradiction between  the  standards  of  nationalist  legitimacy  estab- 
lished under  Nasser  and  the  combination  of  close  United  States 
and  Israeli  connections  and  isolation  from  the  Arab  world  brought 
on  by  Sadat's  policies.  It  took  Mubarak  nearly  a  decade  to  make 
any  significant  progress,  however,  because  Sadat's  legacy  proved 
quite  durable.  The  regime's  dependence  on  the  United  States  was 
irreversible:  for  arms,  for  cheap  food  to  maintain  social  peace, 
and — especially  as  oil-linked  earnings  plummeted — for  US$2  bil- 
lion in  yearly  aid  to  keep  the  economy  afloat.  Dependency  dictated 
continuing  close  political  and  military  alignment  largely  aimed  at 
radical  nationalist  forces  in  the  Arab  world — not  at  Israel,  Egypt's 
traditional  enemy  since  1948.  Mubarak  had  to  maintain  the  Israeli 


286 


Government  and  Politics 


connection  despite  the  lack  of  progress  toward  a  comprehensive 
peace  or  recognition  of  Palestinian  rights.  He  remained  passive 
during  the  1982  Israeli  invasion  of  Lebanon,  a  major  blow  to  the 
Arab  world  made  possible  largely  by  Israel's  no  longer  needing 
to  station  substantial  forces  along  the  southern  front  as  a  result  of 
the  Camp  David  Accords.  This  invasion  and  the  Israeli  raids  on 
Iraq  in  1981  and  on  Tunis  in  1986  showed  how  Sadat  had  opened 
the  Arab  world  to  Israeli  power  as  never  before. 

Mubarak  did  recover  some  foreign  policy  independence.  He  re- 
jected pressures  from  the  United  States  government  in  late  1985 
and  early  1986  for  joint  action  against  Libya,  and  he  restored  Cai- 
ro's diplomatic  relations  with  Moscow.  Moreover,  he  had  some 
leverage  over  the  United  States:  Washington  had  invested  so  much 
in  Egypt  and  gained  so  much  from  Sadat's  policies — defusing  the 
threat  of  an  Arab-Israeli  war,  rolling  back  the  influence  of  the  Soviet 
Union  and  radicals  in  the  Arab  world — that  it  could  not  afford  to 
alienate  the  regime  or  to  let  it  go  under. 

The  continuing  Israeli- American  connection  deepened  Egypt's 
crisis  of  nationalist  legitimacy,  however.  Israel  was  widely  seen  in 
Egypt  as  having  "betrayed"  the  peace  by  its  rejection  of  Palestin- 
ian rights;  its  attempt  to  keep  the  Sinai  enclave  of  Taba;  and  its 
attacks  on  Iraq,  Lebanon,  and  Tunis.  Evidence  of  the  Egyptians' 
deep  resentment  of  Israeli  policy  was  demonstrated  by  the  way  they 
made  a  folk  hero  of  Sulayman  Khatir,  a  policeman  who  killed  Is- 
raeli tourists  in  1985.  Egyptians  also  resented  economic  dependency 
on  the  United  States,  and  the  United  States'  forcing  down  of  an 
Egyptian  aircraft  after  the  Achille  Lauro  incident  in  October  1985 
was  taken  as  a  national  insult  and  set  off  the  first  nationalist  street 
disturbances  in  years.  This  sentiment  did  not  become  a  mass  move- 
ment able  to  force  a  policy  change  despite  demands  by  opposition 
leaders  and  isolated  attacks  on  Israeli  and  American  officials  by 
disgruntled  "Nasserist"  officers.  But  few  governments  anywhere 
have  been  saddled  with  so  unpopular  a  foreign  policy. 

What  saved  the  regime  was  that  Mubarak's  astute  diplomacy 
and  the  mistakes  of  his  rivals  allowed  him  to  achieve  a  gradual  re- 
integration of  Egypt  into  the  Arab  world  without  prejudice  to 
Egypt's  Israeli  links.  The  first  break  in  Egypt's  isolation  came  when 
Yasir  Arafat's  1983  quarrel  with  Syria  enabled  Egypt  to  extend 
him  protection  and  assume  patronage  of  the  Palestinian  resistance. 
Then  the  Arab  oil  states,  fearful  of  Iran  and  of  the  spread  of  Shia 
Islamic  activism,  looked  to  Egypt  for  a  counterbalance.  Thus, 
Mubarak  was  able  to  demonstrate  Egypt's  usefulness  to  the  Arabs 
and  to  inch  out  of  his  isolation.  Egypt's  1989  readmission  to  the 
League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League)  crowned  his  efforts. 


287 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Mubarak's  Egypt  viewed  its  role  in  the  Arab  world  as  that  of 
a  mediator,  particularly  in  trying  to  advance  the  peace  process  be- 
tween Israel  and  the  Arabs.  Thus,  the  regime  invested  its  prestige 
in  the  1989  attempt  to  bridge  differences  between  Israel  and  the 
Palestinians  over  West  Bank  elections.  By  1990  these  efforts  had 
not  resolved  the  stalemate  over  Palestinian  rights,  but  the  restora- 
tion of  ties  between  Egypt  and  Syria  amounted  to  a  Syrian  ac- 
knowledgment that  Egypt's  peace  with  Israel  was  irreversible.  Thus, 
Egypt's  rehabilitation  as  a  major  power  in  the  Arab  world  was  com- 
pleted, undoing  a  good  bit  of  the  damage  done  to  regime  legitimacy 
under  Sadat. 

After  Egypt  had  established  its  alliance  with  the  United  States, 
the  formerly  significant  roles  of  non-Arab  powers  in  Egyptian  for- 
eign policy  waned.  Relations  with  Western  Europe  remained  im- 
portant, if  secondary.  With  some  success,  Egypt  regularly  sought 
the  intervention  of  West  European  governments  with  its  interna- 
tional creditors.  When  the  United  States  commitment  to  pushing 
the  peace  process  beyond  Camp  David  stalled,  Egypt  also  looked 
to  Europe  to  pressure  Israel,  but  the  Europeans  were,  in  this  respect, 
no  substitute  for  Washington. 

The  role  of  the  Soviet  Union  dwindled  even  more  dramatically. 
Under  Nasser,  Moscow  was  Cairo's  main  military  supplier  and 
political  protector  and  a  main  market  and  source  of  development 
assistance;  Soviet  aid  helped  build  such  important  projects  as  the 
Aswan  High  Dam  and  the  country's  steel  industry.  Without  Soviet 
arms  Egypt  would  have  been  helpless  to  mount  the  October  1973 
War  that  broke  the  Israeli  grip  on  Sinai.  But  Sadat's  1972  expul- 
sion of  Soviet  advisers  and  his  subsequent  reliance  on  the  United 
States  to  recover  the  rest  of  Sinai  soured  relations  with  the  Soviet 
Union.  Wanting  American  diplomatic  help  and  economic  largesse, 
Sadat  had  to  portray  Egypt  to  United  States  interests  as  a  bulwark 
against  Soviet  threats;  under  these  conditions  Soviet  relations  nat- 
urally turned  hostile  and  were  broken  in  1980.  Under  Mubarak 
amicable — but  still  low-key — relations  were  reestablished.  Mubarak 
sought  better  Soviet  relations  to  enhance  his  leverage  over  the  Unit- 
ed States,  but  Moscow  was  in  no  position  to  offer  a  credible  threat 
to  American  influence. 

In  1 990  Mubarak  governed  a  state  that  was  the  product  of  both 
persistence  and  change.  Continuity  was  manifest  in  the  durability 
of  the  structures  built  by  Nasser.  The  authoritarian  presidency  re- 
mained the  command  post  of  the  state.  Nasserist  policies — from 
Arab  nationalism  to  the  food  subsidies  and  the  public  sector — cre- 
ated durable  interests  and  standards  of  legitimacy.  Under  Sadat  Egypt 
had  accommodated  itself  to  the  dominant  forces  in  the  regime's 


288 


Government  and  Politics 


environment;  in  Sadat's  "postpopulist"  regime,  charisma,  social 
reform,  and  leadership  of  the  Arab  world  achieved  by  Nasser  gave 
way  to  their  opposites.  Sadat  had  also  adapted  the  state  to  new  con- 
ditions, altering  the  goals  and  style  of  presidential  power  and  liber- 
alizing the  political  structure.  The  survival  of  most  of  Sadat's  work 
under  Mubarak  suggested  that,  more  successfully  than  Nasser,  he 
had  partially  institutionalized  it  in  a  massive  political  structure, 
an  alliance  with  the  dominant  social  forces,  and  a  web  of  constraints 
against  significant  change.  Under  Mubarak  the  state's  ability  to 
manipulate  its  environment  retreated  before  rising  societal  forces 
and  powerful  external  constraints.  But  Mubarak  also  consolidated 
the  limited  liberalization  of  the  political  system  and  restored  an 
Arab  role  for  Egypt.  Although  it  cost  the  concession  of  its  initial 
ideology,  the  Egyptian  state  resulting  from  the  Nasser-led  1952 
Revolution  had  shown  a  remarkable  capacity  to  survive  in  the  face 
of  intense  pressures. 

Yet  Sadat's  innovations,  in  stimulating  rising  autonomous  forces 
while  narrowing  regime  options,  had  set  change  in  motion.  Although 
the  massive  bureaucratic  state  was  sure  to  persist,  the  capitalist  forc- 
es unleashed  by  the  infitah  contained  the  seeds  of  countervailing 
power,  the  social  basis  for  further  political  liberalization.  The  widen- 
ing inequality  and  social  mobilization  precipitated  by  capitalist  de- 
velopment threatened,  however,  to  produce  growing  class  conflicts. 
In  a  regime  with  precarious  legitimacy,  these  conflicts  could  spell 
instability  or  revolution  and  could  require  continuing  authoritari- 
an control.  Should  rising  economic  constraints  force  the  govern- 
ment to  abandon  the  residues  of  populism,  such  a  regime  might 
have  an  ever  more  repressive  face.  If  this  increasing  repression  were 
accompanied  by  accommodation  between  the  regime  and  political 
Islam,  the  end  might  be  conservative  rule  by  consensus;  otherwise, 
a  crumbling  of  the  secular  state  under  pressures  from  the  street 
and  defections  within  could  still  produce  a  new  Islamic  order.  At 
the  beginning  of  the  1990s,  however,  the  regime  was  continuing 
its  established  course,  avoiding  radical  turns  to  left  or  right,  and 
mixing  doses  of  limited  liberalization,  limited  repression,  and  limit- 
ed Islamization. 

Still  the  most  insightful  overviews  of  the  Nasser  regime  are  Anou- 
ar  Abdel-Malek's  Marxist  interpretation,  Egypt:  Military  Society, 
Richard  Hrair  Dekmejian's  elite-centered  analysis,  Egypt  under  Nasir, 
Nazih  Ayubi's  Bureaucracy  and  Politics  in  Contemporary  Egypt,  and  P.J. 


289 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Vatikiotis's  The  Egyptian  Army  in  Politics.  Robert  Stephens's  Nas- 
ser: A  Political  Biography  is  the  best  biography  of  Nasser,  masterfully 
situating  his  personal  role  in  the  wider  political  context.  Raymond 
A.  Hinnebusch,  Jr.'s  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat  is  the  only  com- 
prehensive overview  of  the  Sadat  era,  and  Robert  Springborg's 
Mubarak's  Egypt  is  the  only  one  on  the  current  era. 

A  number  of  major  works  that  bridge  several  eras  are  recom- 
mended. John  Waterbury's  political  economy  study,  The  Egypt  of 
Nasser  and  Sadat,  is  essential  reading.  The  work  edited  by  Gouda 
Abdel-Khalek  and  Robert  L.  Tignor,  The  Political  Economy  of  In- 
come Distribution  in  Egypt,  updates  the  political  economy  picture  into 
the  late  Sadat  era.  Springborg  gives  cultural  and  social  dimensions 
to  politics  in  his  analysis  of  family  and  patrimonial  politics,  Family 
Power  and  Politics  in  Egypt,  while  Hamied  Ansari's  Egypt:  The  Stalled 
Society  and  Leonard  Binder's  In  a  Moment  of  Enthusiasm  argue  the 
centrality  of  the  rural  notables.  Henry  Clement  Moore's  elite  study, 
Images  of  Development,  is  a  story  of  technocracy  derailed  by  patrimonial- 
ism.  Patrimonialism  is  also  identified  as  the  undoing  of  the  revo- 
lution in  Raymond  Baker's  Egypt's  Uncertain  Revolution  under  Nasser 
and  Sadat  and  J  .P .  Vatikiotis's  Nasser  and  His  Generation.  Muhammed 
Hassanain  Haikal  has  written  a  number  of  illuminating  "insider" 
accounts  from  a  Nasserist  point  of  view,  in  particular  The  Road  to 
Ramadan  and  The  Autumn  of  Fury.  Sadat's  autobiography,  In  Search 
of  Identity,  looks  at  many  of  the  same  issues  and  events  through  differ- 
ent eyes.  Useful  studies  with  narrower,  more  in-depth  foci  include 
Iliya  Harik's  The  Political  Mobilization  of  Peasants,  Richard  H. 
Adams's  Development  and  Social  Change  in  Rural  Egypt,  Adeed 
Dawisha's  Egypt  in  the  Arab  World,  and  Gilles  Kepel's  Muslim  Ex- 
tremism in  Egypt.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations, 
see  Bibliography.) 


290 


Chapter  5.  National 


Security 


Hawk  at  entrance  to  the  hypostyle  hall  of  the  Temple  of  Edfu  (Idfu) 


EGYPT  IS  LOCATED  in  a  region  characterized  by  tension  and 
conflict.  Since  Egypt's  war  with  Israel  in  1973,  however,  the  threat 
of  military  confrontation  with  neighboring  countries  has  steadily 
subsided.  As  of  1990,  the  government  was  in  the  process  of  reduc- 
ing the  size  of  its  armed  forces  relative  to  the  size  of  the  popula- 
tion. At  the  same  time,  the  armed  forces  were  modernizing  their 
command  structure  and  updating  their  arms  and  equipment.  With 
448,000  troops,  Egypt  in  1990  remained  one  of  the  major  military 
powers  in  the  Middle  East. 

The  four  services — the  army,  navy,  air  force,  and  Air  Defense 
Force — included  conscripts  and  some  volunteers.  The  average  con- 
script served  three  years  in  the  military,  although  people  who  had 
completed  higher  education  served  shorter  terms.  The  military  also 
had  a  liberal  exemption  policy. 

Since  the  Free  Officers'  coup  in  1952,  career  military  officers 
have  headed  Egypt's  government,  and  senior  officers  have  played 
an  influential  role  in  the  nation's  affairs.  The  military's  involve- 
ment in  government  has  diminished  since  the  1970s,  although  rank- 
ing members  of  the  officer  corps  have  continued  to  fill  the  positions 
of  minister  of  defense  (who  served  concurrently  as  commander  in 
chief  of  the  armed  forces)  and  minister  of  interior. 

Egypt's  military  leaders  enjoyed  a  reputation  for  competence  and 
professionalism;  many  of  these  leaders  had  advanced  training  at 
foreign  military  institutes  and  combat  experience  as  junior  officers 
during  the  October  1973  War. 

As  of  1990,  much  of  the  military  was  still  equipped  with  arms 
provided  by  the  Soviet  Union  between  the  late  1950s  and 
mid-1970s.  In  1979  the  United  States  began  supplying  Egypt  with 
arms.  With  the  exception  of  Israel,  Egypt  was  the  largest  recipient 
of  United  States  military  aid  during  the  1980s.  Its  impressive  stock 
of  weaponry  from  all  sources  nevertheless  did  not  match  that  of 
Israel  in  terms  of  modern  armor  and  combat  aircraft. 

Egypt  has  made  substantial  progress  in  expanding  its  own  arms 
industry,  but  this  progress  depended  on  assistance  from  several 
Western  countries.  During  the  1980s,  the  army  began  to  play  an 
important  role  in  Egypt's  development  efforts;  it  built  roads,  irri- 
gation and  communications  systems,  and  housing.  It  also  produced 
food  and  industrial  products.  These  activities  demonstrated  that 
the  military  could  be  an  asset  to  the  country  even  during  periods 
of  peace. 


293 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


The  country  faced  no  threat  of  invasion  as  of  early  1990,  but 
extreme  Islamic  groups  fanned  internal  tensions.  The  police  and 
the  government's  intelligence  service  were  fairly  successful  in  con- 
trolling Muslim  extremists'  activities,  which  included  arson  and 
attempts  to  assassinate  government  officials. 

During  the  1980s,  elements  of  the  military  were  involved  in  activi- 
ties aimed  at  destabilizing  the  government.  Religious  conspirators 
in  the  army,  seeking  to  overthrow  the  government,  assassinated 
President  Anwar  as  Sadat  in  1981.  But  overall,  the  armed  forces 
remained  loyal  to  the  regime  and  supported  the  peaceful  transi- 
tion of  power  from  Sadat  to  the  vice  president  and  former  air  force 
commander  Husni  Mubarak.  Troops  again  upheld  internal  order 
in  1986  by  quashing  riots  of  conscripts  from  the  Central  Security 
Forces,  a  paramilitary  police  body,  protesting  against  harsh  treat- 
ment. 

Military  Heritage 

It  was  not  until  the  period  of  the  New  Kingdom  (1552-664  B.C.) 
that  standing  military  units  were  formed,  including  the  appear- 
ance of  chariotry  and  the  organization  of  infantry  into  companies 
of  about  250  men.  Egyptian  armies  then  became  militarily  involved 
in  the  Near  East,  contending  for  Syria  and  Palestine.  By  the  later 
periods  beginning  in  the  seventh  century  B.C.,  foreign  mercenar- 
ies formed  the  core  of  Egyptian  military  power.  From  the  time 
Greek  rule  was  established  in  332  B.C.  until  1952  A.D.,  the  coun- 
try was  subject  to  foreign  domination.  Under  the  successive  con- 
trol of  Persian,  Greek,  Roman,  Arab,  Turkish,  French,  and  British 
forces,  the  Egyptians  remained  disdainful  of  the  military.  In  1951 
a  prominent  Egyptian  author  described  military  service  as  "an  ob- 
ject of  ridicule,  a  laughingstock  which  is  to  be  avoided  whenever 
possible."  He  added  that  the  military  was  "left  for  the  poor  and 
uneducated"  and  called  it  "a  derisory  profession  commanding  con- 
tempt rather  than  honor  or  pride." 

Under  Muhammad  Ali,  the  Albanian  soldier  who  governed 
Egypt  during  the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  a  conscript- 
ed Egyptian  army  pursued  campaigns  on  behalf  of  the  Ottoman 
sultan  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  Sudan,  and  Greece.  In  a  disagree- 
ment over  the  control  of  Syria,  his  army,  consisting  of  more  than 
250,000  Egyptians,  advanced  nearly  to  Constantinople  (formerly 
Byzantium;  present-day  Istanbul)  before  the  European  powers  pres- 
sured him  into  withdrawing  (see  Muhammad  Ali,  1805-48,  ch. 
1).  After  the  deaths  of  Muhammad  Ali  and  his  son,  Ibrahim, 
Egypt's  military  strength  declined,  and  the  country  slipped  increas- 
ingly under  European  control.  In  1879  a  nationalist  revolt  erupted 


294 


National  Security 


over  proposed  restrictions  to  prevent  Egyptians  from  entering  the 
officer  corps.  Ahmad  Urabi,  an  Egyptian  colonel,  led  the  coun- 
trywide uprising  which  was  suppressed  after  British  troops  crushed 
the  Egyptians  in  1882. 

The  British  began  their  era  of  domination  in  Egypt  and  assumed 
responsibility  for  defending  the  country  and  the  Suez  Canal,  which 
were  of  particular  interest  to  the  British  Empire.  The  British  dis- 
banded the  Egyptian  army,  and  recreated  it  by  incorporating  Egyp- 
tian units  staffed  by  British  officers  into  British  commands.  British 
regiments  remained  to  defend  the  canal.  To  mobilize  personnel 
for  the  Egyptian  units,  the  British  resorted  to  irregular  conscrip- 
tion among  the  fellahin  (peasants),  who  went  to  great  lengths  to 
avoid  military  service.  Potential  conscripts,  however,  could  make 
a  cash  payment  in  lieu  of  service.  This  practice  resulted  in  units 
that  were  staffed  mostly  by  the  poorest  members  of  society.  Egyp- 
tians who  became  officers  were  almost  always  from  wealthy  and 
distinguished  families. 

Egyptian  nationalism  intensified  after  World  War  I,  and  with 
certain  reservations,  Britain  granted  Egypt  independence  in  1922. 
Britain  transferred  command  over  the  armed  forces  to  Egyptians 
but  retained  a  British  inspector  general  at  the  top.  The  Anglo- 
Egyptian  Treaty  of  1936,  however,  eliminated  this  vestige  of  Brit- 
ish control.  Egypt  then  expanded  the  army,  making  enrollment 
in  the  Military  Academy  and  a  subsequent  army  career  much  more 
attainable  and  desirable  for  young  middle-class  Egyptians. 

The  Egyptian  Military  in  World  War  II 

Before  World  War  II,  military  service  was  compulsory  for  men 
between  the  ages  of  nineteen  and  twenty-seven,  but  because  of  the 
limited  size  of  the  army — about  23,000  in  1939 — few  were  actual- 
ly conscripted.  During  World  War  II,  Egypt's  army  grew  to  about 
100,000  troops.  Britain  maintained  a  strong  influence  in  the  mili- 
tary and  provided  it  with  equipment,  instruction,  and  technicians. 
Under  the  terms  of  the  1936  treaty,  British  troops  remained  in  the 
country  to  defend  the  Suez  Canal.  During  the  war,  Egypt  became 
the  principal  Allied  base  in  the  Middle  East. 

Egypt  severed  relations  with  the  Axis  powers  soon  after  the  out- 
break of  World  War  II  but  remained  technically  neutral  until  near 
the  end  of  the  war.  The  Italians  first  brought  the  war  to  Egypt  in 
1940  but  were  repelled  by  the  British.  In  late  1941,  the  German 
Afrika  Korps  entered  western  Egypt  and  threatened  the  country 
and  the  canal.  But  the  British  Eighth  Army  defeated  the  German 
force  at  Al  Alamayn  in  October  1942.  Some  Egyptians  flew  patrol 
duty  in  British  planes  with  British  pilots  during  the  war,  and  Egypt 


295 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


inaugurated  a  naval  service  with  a  few  patrol  boats  supplied  by 
Britain.  Egyptians  were  used  primarily  for  guard  duty  and  logisti- 
cal tasks  rather  than  fc  r  combat.  Some  Egyptian  officers  favored 
Germany  as  a  way  to  end  Britain's  influence  in  the  country.  (The 
British  had  imprisoned  Anwar  as  Sadat  because  of  his  pro-German 
activities.)  Aware  of  such  sentiments,  the  British  command  was 
reluctant  to  employ  Egyptian  units  in  combat  even  after  King  Faruk 
formally  declared  war  against  the  Axis  in  February  1945. 

First  Arab-Israeli  War 

During  the  First  Arab-Israeli  War  (1948-49),  an  Egyptian  in- 
vasion force  of  7,000  men  crossed  the  Palestinian  border  at  Rafah 
on  the  Mediterranean  coast  and  at  Al  Awja  (Nizzana)  farther  in- 
land (see  fig.  7).  They  soon  reached  Ashdod,  less  than  thirty-five 
kilometers  from  Tel  Aviv.  But  by  the  time  the  first  truce  ended 
in  mid-July,  the  Israelis  had  reinforced  their  positions,  beating  off 
Egyptian  attacks  and  recovering  territory  to  protect  Jewish  settle- 
ments in  the  Negev.  By  the  fall  of  1948,  the  Israelis  put  Egypt's 
18,000  troops  deployed  in  Palestine  on  the  defensive  and  penetrated 
the  Sinai  Peninsula.  Egypt  and  Israel  concluded  an  armistice  un- 
der United  Nations  (UN)  auspices  at  the  end  of  1948  and  later 
agreed  on  a  cease-fire  line  that  generally  followed  the  prewar  bound- 
ary between  Palestine  and  Sinai.  But  Egyptian  forces  still  occupied 
and  administered  the  narrow  coastal  strip  of  southwestern  Pales- 
tine, the  Gaza  Strip.' 

The  venality  and  ineffectiveness  of  the  Faruk  regime  were  the 
main  causes  of  Egypt's  failures  in  the  war.  Although  inexperienced, 
Egypt's  troops  had  performed  well  in  defensive  operations  before 
being  driven  back  by  the  Israelis. 

A  coup  d'etat  in  1952  toppled  Faruk' s  regime  and  brought  to 
power  younger  officers  of  the  Free  Officers'  movement  (see  The 
Revolution  and  the  Early  Years  of  the  New  Government,  1952-56, 
ch.  1).  From  then  on,  Egypt  gave  priority  to  the  development  of 
the  military.  In  1955  the  government  enacted  the  National  Mili- 
tary Service  Law,  which  aimed  at  reforming  and  upgrading  the 
armed  forces. 

The  1956  War 

After  President  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser's  seizure  of  the  Suez  Canal 
in  July  1956,  the  British,  French,  and  Israelis  began  coordinating 
an  invasion.  On  October  29,  1956,  the  Israelis  struck  across  Sinai 
toward  the  canal  and  southward  toward  Sharm  ash  Shaykh  to  relieve 
the  Egyptian  blockade  of  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba.  At  the  crossroads  of 
Abu  Uwayqilah,  thirty  kilometers  from  the  Israeli  border,  and  at 


296 


National  Security 


the  Mitla  Pass,  Egyptian  troops  resisted  fiercely,  repelling  several 
attacks  by  larger  Israeli  forces.  British  and  French  forces  bombed 
Egyptian  air  bases,  causing  Nasser  to  withdraw  Egyptian  troops 
from  Sinai  to  protect  the  canal.  At  the  heavily  fortified  complex 
of  Rafah  in  the  northwestern  corner  of  Sinai  and  at  other  points, 
the  Egyptians  carried  out  effective  delaying  actions  before  retreat- 
ing. Egypt  vigorously  defended  Sharm  ash  Shaykh  in  the  extreme 
south  until  two  advancing  Israeli  columns  took  control  of  the  area. 
At  Port  Said  (Bur  Said),  at  the  north  end  of  the  canal,  Egyptian 
soldiers  battled  the  initial  British  and  French  airborne  assault,  but 
resistance  quickly  collapsed  when  allied  forces  landed  on  the  beach 
with  support  from  heavy  naval  gunfire. 

The  performance  of  many  of  the  Egyptian  units  was  determined 
and  resourceful  in  the  face  of  the  qualitative  and  numerical  superi- 
ority of  the  invaders.  Nasser  claimed  that  Egypt  had  not  been  defeat- 
ed by  the  Israelis  but  that  it  had  been  forced  to  abandon  Sinai  to 
defend  the  canal  against  the  Anglo-French  attacks.  According  to 
foreign  military  observers,  about  1,650  of  Egypt's  ground  forces 
were  killed  in  the  campaign.  Another  4,900  were  wounded,  and 
more  than  6,000  were  captured  or  missing. 

Respect  for  the  armed  forces  grew  in  response  to  Nasser's  rise 
to  political  preeminence  in  the  Arab  world,  his  widespread  sup- 
port among  Egyptians,  hostility  toward  Israel,  and  the  broadened 
base  of  military  service.  But  Egypt's  army  suffered  a  psychologi- 
cal setback  in  September  1962  when  it  intervened  unsuccessfully 
in  a  civil  war  in  what  later  became  the  Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North 
Yemen)  (see  Egypt  and  the  Arab  World,  ch.  1).  Nasser  moved  large 
numbers  of  Egyptian  troops  into  the  country  after  a  group  of  Yeme- 
ni army  officers  staged  a  coup  against  the  royalist  regime.  The  num- 
ber of  Egyptian  troops  in  the  country  rose  from  20,000  in  1963 
to  70,000  by  1965.  The  Egyptians,  who  were  not  well  trained  or 
equipped  for  battle  in  Yemen's  rugged  mountain  terrain,  failed 
to  defeat  the  royalists.  Some  of  Egypt's  best  troops  were  still  stale- 
mated in  Yemen  when  Israel  attacked  Egypt  in  1967. 

The  June  1967  War 

In  the  eleven  years  leading  up  to  the  June  1967  War  (also  seen 
as  the  Arab-Israeli  War  and  the  Six-Day  War),  the  military  had 
been  intensively  trained  for  combat  and  outfitted  with  new  Soviet 
weapons  and  equipment.  Despite  these  preparations,  the  war  proved 
to  be  a  debacle  for  Egypt.  Although  there  had  been  many  indica- 
tions that  an  attack  was  imminent,  the  Israelis  still  took  Egypt  by 
surprise  on  June  5,  when  their  aircraft  approached  from  the 
Mediterranean  at  low  altitudes  to  avoid  detection  by  radar  and 


297 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  7.  Principal  Military  Installations  in  the  Sinai  Peninsula, 
1989 


attacked  the  Egyptian  air  force  while  it  was  still  on  the  ground. 
Within  three  hours,  the  Israelis  had  destroyed  300  Egyptian  com- 
bat aircraft,  including  all  of  Egypt's  30  long-range  bombers.  Israel 
focused  its  ground  attack  on  the  heavily  fortified  Sinai  road  junction 


298 


National  Security 


of  Abu  Uwayqilah  as  it  had  done  in  1956.  After  a  fierce  battle, 
the  Israelis  overwhelmed  Egyptian  forces  in  fewer  than  twelve  hours. 
The  devastating  air  attacks  and  initial  Israeli  ground  successes 
panicked  Egyptian  commander  in  chief  Field  Marshal  Abdul  Hakim 
Amir  into  withdrawing  army  units  from  Sinai  to  the  west  bank  of 
the  Suez  Canal.  Staff  officers  later  persuaded  Amir  to  rescind  his 
order,  but  by  that  time  all  the  main  elements  of  the  four  frontline 
divisions  had  already  begun  retreating  westward.  At  several  points, 
rearguard  actions  delayed  Israeli  advances,  but  Israeli  forces  man- 
aged to  block  bottlenecks  in  the  Giddi  Pass  and  the  Mitla  Pass  and 
at  Bir  al  Jifjafah  and  prevented  the  escape  of  Egyptian  troops  and 
equipment.  The  Israeli  air  force  bombed  and  strafed  thousands 
of  Egyptian  tanks,  guns,  and  vehicles  caught  in  the  bottleneck. 

After  four  days  of  intensive  fighting,  Israel  controlled  the  entire 
Sinai  Peninsula  up  to  the  east  bank  of  the  canal.  Egypt  acknowl- 
edged that  of  approximately  100,000  troops  in  Sinai,  10,000  soldiers 
and  1,500  officers  were  casualties.  Observers  estimated  that  about 
half  of  the  dead  had  succumbed  to  thirst  or  exhaustion  in  the  desert. 
A  further  5,000  soldiers  and  500  officers  were  captured,  many  of 
whom  were  wounded.  Israel  also  destroyed  or  captured  about  700 
of  Egypt's  930  tanks.  Popular  support  for  the  military  subsided 
rapidly  after  the  June  1967  War,  and  morale  within  the  forces 
plunged  to  its  lowest  level  since  before  the  military  takeover  of  1952. 
Although  individually  and  in  some  cases  as  units  the  Egyptians 
often  performed  bravely,  the  Israeli  army  again  demonstrated  the 
self-reliance  of  its  unit  leaders,  its  better  training,  and  the  superi- 
or use  of  its  armor. 

War  of  Attrition  and  the  October  1973  War 

After  conquering  Sinai,  the  Israelis  constructed  the  Bar- Lev  Line, 
a  series  of  thirty-three  small,  heavily  fortified  observation  posts  atop 
sand  ramparts  eight  to  ten  meters  high  along  the  east  bank  of  the 
Suez  Canal.  They  built  a  second  sand  embankment  several  kilo- 
meters behind  the  first  one.  Both  embankments  had  firing  ramps 
for  roving  armored  patrols.  In  January  1969,  Egypt  began  the  War 
of  Attrition  with  an  intensive  eighty-day  bombardment  along  the 
whole  canal.  Israeli  positions  along  the  Bar-Lev  Line  survived  the 
attack  but  suffered  heavy  damage.  Egypt  followed  the  attack  with 
commando  raids  on  the  line  itself  and  against  Israeli  patrols  and 
rear  installations.  Israel  launched  a  severe  reprisal  that  included 
bombing  raids  against  military  and  strategic  targets  deep  in  the 
interior  of  Egypt.  The  relative  ineffectiveness  of  Egypt's  Soviet  SA-2 
high-altitude  surface-to-air  missiles  (SAMs)  against  the  Israeli  raids 
necessitated  the  introduction  of  low-level  SA-3  SAMs,  manned 


299 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


mostly  by  Soviet  technicians.  Egypt  reinforced  the  new  missiles 
with  more  than  100  MiG-21  aircraft  flown  by  Soviet  pilots.  Egypt's 
revitalized  air  defense  system  succeeded  in  destroying  a  consider- 
able number  of  Israeli  aircraft.  Still,  in  the  only  major  battle  be- 
tween Israeli  and  Soviet  fighters,  the  Israeli  air  force  quickly 
prevailed.  In  August  1970,  a  cease-fire  negotiated  by  the  United 
States  with  Soviet  support  ended  the  fighting  between  Israel  and 
Egypt. 

Sadat,  who  succeeded  Nasser  in  September  1970,  assumed  the 
responsibility  of  managing  the  international  and  domestic  pressures 
that  were  impelling  Egypt  and  the  Middle  East  toward  another  war. 
Although  the  Soviets  had  replaced  the  enormous  amounts  of  arms 
and  equipment  lost  during  the  June  1967  War,  Sadat  and  other 
Egyptian  military  leaders  had  become  wary  of  the  Soviet  military's 
increasing  influence  on  national  affairs.  In  mid- 1972  Sadat  dis- 
missed most  of  the  Soviet  advisers  as  part  of  his  preparations  for 
recovering  Sinai.  In  January  1973,  Egypt  began  planning  a  top- 
secret  project  known  as  Operation  Badr  in  conjunction  with  Syria. 

Early  in  the  afternoon  of  October  6,  1973,  Egypt  launched  the 
operation  with  a  massive  artillery  barrage  against  Israeli  positions 
on  the  eastern  bank  of  the  Suez  Canal.  Water  cannons  mounted 
on  pontoons  sliced  gaps  in  the  high  sandbank  of  the  Bar-Lev  Line, 
permitting  armored  vehicles  to  cross  on  assault  craft.  By  midnight 
ten  bridges  and  fifty  ferries  had  carried  80,000  Egyptian  troops 
across  the  waterway  and  one  kilometer  beyond  the  embankment. 
Almost  all  of  the  armor  of  the  Egyptian  Second  Army  and  Third 
Army  crossed  the  following  day.  By  October  9,  the  Egyptian  bridge- 
heads were  seven  to  ten  kilometers  east  of  the  canal.  The  Soviet- 
supplied  antitank  missiles  and  rockets  repulsed  the  initial  Israeli 
counterattacks.  The  newer  Soviet  SAMs  protected  Egyptian  forces 
from  Israeli  air  attacks,  but  as  Egyptian  troops  advanced  beyond 
the  missile  defenses,  they  were  exposed  to  punishing  air  attacks. 

On  October  14,  Egyptian  armored  columns  took  the  offensive 
to  try  to  seize  the  main  routes  leading  to  Tasa  and  the  Giddi  and 
Mitla  passes.  In  the  largest  tank  battle  since  World  War  II,  the 
Egyptian  attack  failed  when  Israeli  gunnery  proved  superior,  and 
the  Israelis'  defensive  positions  gave  them  an  added  advantage. 
Mounting  a  strong  counterattack,  the  Israelis  thrust  toward  the 
canal  and  narrowly  succeeded  in  crossing  it  just  north  of  Great  Bitter 
Lake.  Egyptian  forces  on  the  east  bank  heavily  contested  Israel's 
weak  link  to  the  canal  bridgehead,  but  by  October  19,  the  Israelis 
succeeded  in  breaking  out  west  of  the  canal.  Stubborn  Egyptian 
defenses  prevented  the  loss  of  the  cities  of  Ismailia  (Al  Ismailiyah) 


300 


United  Nations  Emergency  Force  and  Israeli  officers  meeting  with 
beduins  in  southern  Sinai  Peninsula,  1975 
Courtesy  United  Nations,  Y.  Nagata 

and  Suez  at  the  southern  end  of  the  canal  until  a  UN  cease-fire 
took  effect  on  October  24,  1973.  Before  the  cease-fire,  however, 
the  Israelis  had  isolated  the  Egyptian  Third  Army  on  the  east  bank 
of  the  canal. 

Under  a  disengagement  agreement  reached  on  January  17,  1974, 
Israel  withdrew  its  forces  from  west  of  the  canal  while  Egyptian 
forces  withdrew  from  the  east  bank  to  a  depth  of  about  eight  kilo- 
meters. The  agreement  also  provided  for  a  United  Nations  Emer- 
gency Force  (UNEF)  to  occupy  a  north- south  buffer  strip  about 
eight  kilometers  wide  and  allowed  a  limited  number  of  Israeli  troops 
to  occupy  a  similar  zone  to  the  east  of  the  UNEF. 

Although  Egypt's  armed  forces  suffered  severely  in  the  October 
1973  War,  the  losses  were  not  nearly  as  heavy  as  they  had  been 
in  1967.  Of  the  combined  strength  of  200,000  in  Egypt's  Second 
and  Third  armies,  approximately  8,000  men  were  killed  in  com- 
bat. Egypt  also  lost  more  than  200  aircraft,  1,100  tanks,  and  large 
quantities  of  other  weapons,  vehicles,  and  equipment.  Despite  these 
losses,  the  effect  of  the  war  on  the  armed  forces  was  as  exhilarat- 
ing as  the  defeat  in  1967  had  been  debilitating.  Although  they  had 
not  recovered  Sinai,  their  initial  successes  in  securing  the  east  bank 
of  the  canal  had  an  important  positive  psychological  impact  on  the 


301 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

armed  forces.  The  war  enabled  Egypt  to  negotiate  from  strength 
rather  than  from  the  abject  weakness  of  the  post- 1967  period.  At 
the  same  time,  Egypt  had  proved  that  it  was  capable  of  successful 
military  planning  and  of  inflicting  painful  losses  on  Israel. 

Security  Concerns  and  Strategic  Perspectives 

After  the  disengagement  agreement  of  1974,  the  threat  of  an  Is- 
raeli attack  on  Egypt  diminished  significantly,  and  a  second  dis- 
engagement agreement  was  concluded  in  1975.  In  1979  Egypt  and 
Israel  signed  a  treaty  of  peace  under  which  Israel  agreed  to  with- 
draw its  forces  in  stages  from  the  Sinai  Peninsula,  further  reduc- 
ing the  likelihood  of  a  new  conflict  between  the  two  countries. 

Nevertheless,  Egypt's  experience  of  four  wars  with  Israel  con- 
tinued to  shape  the  thinking  of  Egyptian  military  planners.  In  1986 
Egyptian  commander  in  chief  Abdul  Halim  Abu  Ghazala  assert- 
ed that  Israel  still  embraced  a  strategy  of  maintaining  military 
strength  superior  to  that  of  all  of  its  neighbors  combined.  Egypt's 
policy,  he  declared,  was  to  "neutralize"  this  strength  so  that  it  could 
not  be  used  for  aggressive  purposes  threatening  the  security  of  the 
Arab  states. 

A  chain  of  Egyptian  fortifications  east  of  the  Suez  Canal  was 
manned  by  the  equivalent  of  about  one-half  of  a  mechanized  divi- 
sion, which  was  less  than  Egypt  was  permitted  under  the  peace 
treaty.  Annual  military  exercises  practiced  reinforcement  of  Sinai 
by  the  five  Egyptian  divisions  that  could  be  quickly  deployed  across 
the  canal.  Egypt's  deployments  in  the  area  had  a  defensive  charac- 
ter, however,  and  its  forces  west  of  the  canal  occupied  permanent 
bases  that  had  existed  for  many  years. 

In  addition  to  its  concern  about  Israel,  Egypt's  1,000-kilometer 
border  with  Libya  remained  a  problem  for  Egyptian  defense  plan- 
ners in  1990  despite  a  campaign  of  reconciliation  by  Libya's  lead- 
er, Muammar  al  Qadhafi.  Egypt  believed  that  Qadhafi  had  amassed 
a  stockpile  of  Soviet  weaponry  beyond  any  foreseeable  defensive 
needs  and  was  seeking  additional  advanced  weaponry,  including 
Soviet  MiG-29  combat  fighters  and  medium-range  missiles.  Libya 
had  an  estimated  40,000  troops  backed  by  modern  tanks,  missiles, 
and  combat  aircraft  at  air  bases  adjacent  to  the  Egyptian- Libyan 
border.  Although  Qadhafi  announced  in  May  1988  that  all  com- 
bat forces  would  be  pulled  back  from  the  border,  the  Egyptian 
minister  of  defense  claimed  in  1989  that  a  major  part  of  the  Liby- 
an army  was  still  deployed  along  the  border  zone. 

Sudan,  Egypt's  neighbor  to  the  south,  presented  no  direct  mili- 
tary problem  for  Egypt.  The  border  between  the  two  countries  was 
unguarded  except  for  policing  to  prevent  smuggling  and  drug 


302 


National  Security 


trafficking.  Because  the  two  countries  shared  a  long  cultural  and 
political  history,  Egypt  regarded  Sudanese  territory  as  providing 
added  depth  to  the  country's  strategic  defenses.  Egypt  was  report- 
edly concerned  about  the  coup  in  Sudan  in  June  1989  that  brought 
to  power  a  group  of  military  officers  identified  with  Islamism.  The 
deterioration  of  Sudan's  economy  and  internal  security,  accentu- 
ated by  the  mismanagement  of  the  military  junta,  posed  the  danger 
of  instability  on  Egypt's  southern  flank. 

Egypt's  role  in  Sudan  was  linked  to  its  general  policy  promot- 
ing African  regional  stability  and  moderation.  Egypt  provided  mili- 
tary assistance  and  advisers  to  Nigeria,  Somalia,  and  Zaire  and 
focused  on  Africa  in  marketing  the  products  of  its  defense  indus- 
try. Egypt  sold  arms  to  African  nations  that  agreed  to  use  them 
only  for  national  defense  rather  than  for  domestic  control  over  their 
citizens. 

Egypt  believed  that  the  Red  Sea  was  of  vital  interest  to  the  coun- 
try's  strategic  objectives  because  this  body  of  water  was  closely  as- 
sociated with  the  security  of  the  Suez  Canal.  Egypt  believed,  more- 
over, that  any  threats  to  the  security  of  the  nations  surrounding 
the  Persian  Gulf  or  on  the  Arabian  Peninsula  could  signal  a  threat 
to  its  own  security.  Against  threats  from  Iran,  Egypt  had  pledged 
its  support  to  the  states  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  (GCC), 
including  Saudi  Arabia,  Kuwait,  Bahrain,  Qatar,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  and  Oman.  Egypt  also  expressed  a  willingness  to  play 
a  larger  role  in  the  Persian  Gulf  through  the  provision  of  military 
advice,  training,  and  sales  of  arms  and  equipment.  Egypt  chose, 
however,  not  to  participate  in  a  joint  Arab  force,  which  had  been 
proposed  to  protect  the  GCC  states  against  Iran.  Egypt  provided 
large  quantities  of  arms  to  Iraq  during  the  Iran-Iraq  War,  and  thou- 
sands of  Egyptians  were  working  in  Iraq. 

The  Military  in  National  Life 

The  military  became  one  of  the  most  important  factors  in  Egyp- 
tian politics  after  the  overthrow  of  the  monarchy  in  1952.  Nasser 
appointed  members  of  the  officer  corps  to  senior  positions  in  the 
bureaucracy  and  public  sector  to  help  implement  his  social  revo- 
lution. But  in  the  later  years  of  the  Nasser  regime,  fewer  military 
figures  occupied  high  government  posts.  Even  fewer  held  posts  dur- 
ing the  Sadat  and  Mubarak  regimes.  Nevertheless,  senior  gener- 
als on  active  service  continued  to  hold  the  key  positions  in  agencies 
responsible  for  national  security — the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  the 
Ministry  of  Interior — as  of  early  1990. 

After  the  June  1967  War,  which  tarnished  the  reputation  of  the 
military  leadership,  Nasser  purged  many  officers  from  government. 


303 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Sadat  further  reduced  the  military's  influence  in  government  by 
removing  strong  military  figures  who  were  liable  to  challenge  his 
policies  and  by  insisting  on  greater  professionalism  in  the  event 
of  renewed  conflict  with  Israel.  He  appointed  fewer  active  or  re- 
tired officers  to  high  positions,  although  he  named  air  force  com- 
mander Husni  Mubarak  as  vice  president.  Sadat  was  careful, 
however,  to  protect  the  career  interests  of  professional  soldiers  and 
to  provide  for  the  material  requirements  of  the  military.  Although 
the  size  of  the  armed  forces  had  decreased  after  peace  with  Israel, 
the  officer  complement  remained  intact.  Egypt's  expanding  rela- 
tionship with  the  United  States  after  1974  assured  a  continued  sup- 
ply of  modern  weapons. 

The  performance  of  the  army  during  the  October  1973  War 
helped  restore  the  military's  prestige  and  served  to  justify  Sadat's 
emphasis  on  professionalism  instead  of  involvement  in  civilian  pol- 
itics (see  Politics  among  Elites,  ch.  4).  The  military  leadership's 
views  continued  to  have  an  important  influence  on  the  formula- 
tion of  defense  and  national  security  policies.  Opposition  politi- 
cians, who  had  become  more  vocal  during  the  Mubarak  regime, 
insisted  upon  open  debate  on  defense  strategy,  the  privileges  of  the 
officer  corps,  and  the  share  of  national  resources  allocated  to  defense. 

The  armed  forces  played  a  role  in  maintaining  domestic  stabili- 
ty, although  only  under  the  most  compelling  circumstances  had 
they  actually  been  called  upon  in  a  domestic  crisis.  These  occa- 
sions included  the  violent  1977  food  riots  and  an  uprising  of  con- 
scripts of  the  Central  Security  Forces  in  Cairo  (Al  Qahirah)  and 
other  cities  in  1986  (see  Police,  this  ch.).  The  military  leadership 
noted  pointedly  that  the  army  units  returned  to  their  barracks  as 
soon  as  both  emergencies  had  ended.  The  efficiency  and  profes- 
sionalism the  armed  forces  demonstrated  during  these  emergen- 
cies reinforced  the  public's  perception  that  the  army  was  the  ultimate 
safeguard  against  militant  Islamists  or  others  who  might  threaten 
civil  authority. 

Mubarak's  firm  control  over  the  military  enabled  him  to  re- 
strict the  influence  of  the  officer  corps  over  political  decision  mak- 
ing. His  encouragement  of  democratizing  tendencies  in  the  political 
system  led  to  previously  unexpressed  public  criticism  of  the  mili- 
tary's privileges  and  its  demands  on  the  economy.  Much  of  the 
debate  over  the  military's  role  during  the  Mubarak  regime  cen- 
tered on  Abu  Ghazala,  Mubarak's  close  collaborator,  who  was 
named  minister  of  defense  before  Sadat's  death  in  1981  and  was 
promoted  to  field  marshal  and  deputy  prime  minister  in  1982.  Un- 
der Abu  Ghazala,  the  military's  growing  involvement  in  Egypt's 
industrial,  military,  and  agricultural  sectors  offset  the  military's 


304 


National  Security 


diminishing  role  in  politics  (see  Production  of  Civilian  Goods,  this 
ch.).  With  substantial  economic  resources  and  the  means  to  earn 
revenues  independently  of  the  budget,  the  defense  sector  was  able 
to  maintain  a  high  degree  of  financial  autonomy.  Despite  the 
government's  fiscal  austerity,  Abu  Ghazala  was  able  to  purchase 
expensive  modern  weaponry  during  the  1980s  and  to  undertake 
vast  housing  projects  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  both  officers 
and  enlisted  personnel.  Widely  regarded  as  the  natural  successor 
to  Mubarak  as  president,  Abu  Ghazala  was  careful  not  to  appear 
to  be  a  political  rival  to  Mubarak  or  to  undercut  the  president's 
authority.  He  nevertheless  spoke  out  on  nonmilitary  matters,  ap- 
parentiy  with  Mubarak's  consent,  and  developed  a  network  of  con- 
tacts with  civilian  business  leaders. 

In  April  1989,  Mubarak  abruptly  appointed  General  Yusuf  Sabri 
Abu  Talib  as  minister  of  defense  and  commander  in  chief  and  as- 
signed Abu  Ghazala  the  vague  position  of  assistant  to  the  presi- 
dent. Most  observers  believed  that  Abu  Ghazala  had  been  dismissed 
for  corrupt  financial  dealings  as  well  as  for  a  scandal  over  smug- 
gling arms  from  the  United  States;  others  believed  that  Mubarak 
considered  him  too  influential.  One  effect  of  Mubarak's  dramatic 
action,  however,  was  to  strengthen  civilian  primacy  over  the  mili- 
tary. Abu  Ghazala' s  successor,  Abu  Talib,  had  earned  a  reputa- 
tion as  an  efficient  manager  in  his  previous  post  as  governor  of 
Cairo.  When  Abu  Talib  took  up  his  new  post,  he  indicated  that 
he  intended  to  introduce  greater  financial  accountability  into  defense 
programs  and  to  limit  the  military's  involvement  in  economic  ac- 
tivities that  were  not  directly  related  to  defense  and  that  competed 
with  the  private  sector.  Abu  Talib  was  also  charged  with  bringing 
corruption  in  the  armed  forces  under  control. 

The  Armed  Forces 

According  to  Articles  180  to  183  of  the  Constitution  of  1971, 
the  armed  forces  "shall  belong  to  the  people"  and  are  required 
"to  defend  the  country,  to  safeguard  its  territory  and  security,  and 
to  protect  the  socialist  gains  of  the  people's  struggle."  The  Constitu- 
tion allows  only  the  government  to  have  armed  forces;  it  forbids 
organizations  or  groups  from  establishing  a  military  or  paramili- 
tary force.  The  Constitution  also  refers  to  the  defense  of  the  home- 
land as  a  "sacred  duty"  and  mandates  compulsory  conscription. 

The  Constitution  designates  the  president  of  the  republic  as 
supreme  commander  of  the  armed  forces  and  empowers  the  presi- 
dent to  declare  war  or  a  state  of  emergency  as  long  as  the  People's 
Assembly  (Majlis  ash  Shaab;  formerly  the  National  Assembly)  con- 
curs. The  four  presidents  who  have  held  the  office  since  the  1952 


305 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Revolution — Muhammad  Naguib,  Nasser,  Sadat,  and  Mubarak — 
have  all  been  military  officers  and  have  played  decisive  roles  in 
matters  affecting  security  and  the  armed  forces.  The  Constitution 
establishes  the  National  Defense  Council  as  the  president's  prin- 
cipal advisory  body  for  all  matters  relating  to  the  country's  security. 
The  Constitution  provides  no  rules  for  membership  in  the  coun- 
cil, but  it  does  designate  the  president  as  the  council's  chairman. 
In  practice,  however,  the  National  Defense  Council  was  rarely  men- 
tioned; the  president  and  the  minister  of  defense  usually  dealt 
informally  with  national  security  matters.  On  issues  of  broad  sig- 
nificance, other  members  of  the  cabinet  might  also  be  present  to 
offer  their  views. 

The  post  of  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  had  cus- 
tomarily been  combined  with  the  offices  of  minister  of  defense  and 
minister  of  military  production.  The  Ministry  of  Defense  dealt  with 
budgetary,  administrative,  industrial,  and  policy  matters  affect- 
ing the  military.  It  also  handled  affairs  related  to  reserve  officers 
and  veterans.  The  senior  deputy  to  the  commander  in  chief,  the 
chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces,  was  responsible  for  current  oper- 
ations of  the  armed  forces.  The  Military  Operations  Authority, 
headed  by  the  army  commander,  served  as  a  combined  services 
coordinating  and  control  center.  The  commanders  of  the  navy,  air 
force,  the  Air  Defense  Force,  and  the  two  field  armies  worked  un- 
der the  direction  of  the  chief  of  staff.  These  lines  of  command, 
however,  were  not  always  strictly  observed,  especially  under  oper- 
ational conditions  (see  fig.  8). 

The  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  held  the  rank  of 
a  full  general,  except  in  the  case  of  Abu  Ghazala,  who  was  promoted 
to  field  marshal  in  recognition  of  his  importance  in  the  national 
security  establishment.  In  1990  the  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces 
and  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  Air  Defense  Force  were  lieu- 
tenant generals.  The  naval  and  air  force  commanders  held  the  ranks 
of  vice  admiral  and  air  marshal,  the  air  force  equivalent  of  lieutenant 
general,  respectively.  The  chief  of  the  Military  Operations  Authority 
and  the  commanders  of  the  two  field  armies  were  major  generals. 

Army 

The  army  has  always  been  the  largest  and  most  important  branch 
of  the  armed  forces.  The  army  had  an  estimated  strength  of  320,000 
in  1989.  About  180,000  of  these  were  conscripts.  Before  the  June 
1967  War,  the  army  divided  its  personnel  into  four  regional  com- 
mands. After  the  1967  debacle,  the  army  was  reorganized  into  two 
field  armies — the  Second  Army  and  the  Third  Army,  both  of  which 
were  stationed  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  country.  Most  of  the 


306 


National  Security 


remaining  troops  were  stationed  in  the  Nile  Delta  region,  around 
the  upper  Nile,  and  along  the  Libyan  border.  These  troops  were 
organized  into  eight  military  districts.  Commandos  and  paratroop 
units  were  stationed  near  Cairo  under  central  control  but  could 
be  transferred  quickly  to  one  of  the  field  armies  if  needed.  District 
commanders,  who  generally  held  the  rank  of  major  general,  main- 
tained liaison  with  governors  and  other  civil  authorities  on  mat- 
ters of  domestic  security. 

The  army's  principal  tactical  formations  in  1988  were  believed 
to  include  four  armored  divisions  (each  with  two  armored  brigades 
and  one  mechanized  brigade);  six  mechanized  infantry  divisions 
(each  with  two  mechanized  brigades  and  one  armored  brigade); 
and  two  infantry  divisions  (each  with  two  infantry  brigades  and 
one  mechanized  brigade).  Independent  brigades  included  four  in- 
fantry brigades,  three  mechanized  brigades,  one  armored  brigade, 
two  air  mobile  brigades,  one  paratroop  brigade,  and  the  Republi- 
can Guard  armored  brigade.  These  brigades  were  augmented  by 
two  heavy  mortar  brigades,  fourteen  artillery  brigades,  two  surface- 
to-surface  missile  (SSM)  regiments,  and  seven  commando  groups, 
each  consisting  of  about  1,000  men. 

Although  disposition  of  the  forces  was  secret,  foreign  military 
observers  estimated  that  five  Egyptian  divisions  were  in  camps  west 
of  the  Suez  Canal  while  half  a  division  was  in  Sinai.  The  Second 
Army  was  responsible  for  the  area  from  the  Mediterranean  Sea 
to  a  point  south  of  Ismailia;  the  Third  Army  was  responsible  from 
that  point  southward  to  the  Red  Sea.  The  government  deployed 
the  armies  in  this  way  partly  because  of  a  desire  to  protect  the  canal 
and  the  capital  from  a  potential  Israeli  invasion  and  partly  because 
the  housing  facilities  and  installations  for  the  two  armies  had  long 
been  located  in  these  areas.  The  commander  of  the  Western  Dis- 
trict controlled  armored  forces  supplemented  by  commando,  ar- 
tillery, and  air  defense  units  (possibly  totaling  the  equivalent  of 
a  reinforced  division)  that  were  stationed  at  coastal  towns  in  the 
west  and  in  the  Western  Desert  (also  known  as  the  Libyan  Desert) 
facing  Libya. 

Even  though  the  Egyptian  military  became  oriented  toward  the 
West  after  the  October  1973  War,  it  still  had  large  amounts  of  Soviet 
equipment  in  its  arms  inventory.  As  of  1989,  an  estimated  five  of 
the  twelve  divisions  and  portions  of  other  units  had  made  the  tran- 
sition to  American  equipment  and  order  of  battle.  The  stock  of 
main  battle  tanks  consisted  of  785  M60A3s  from  the  United  States, 
together  with  more  than  1 ,600  Soviet-made  T-54,  T-55,  and  T-62 
models.  Some  of  these  older  Soviet  tanks  were  being  refitted  in 
the  West  with  105mm  guns,  diesel  engines,  fire-control  systems, 


307 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


W  _J  O 

Z  I  ° 

±  ^  CE 

2  0- 


uj  ^  <  o 

1^1 


m  5,  rr  □ 

<  <  E 


2  a 
§2 


z|u- 

Ul  S  Q 

Q  O  m 

UJ  111  DC 
oc  s  < 

0-  UJ  uj 

f 1 

0-  I- 


— o 


ZU-O 

<  UJ  LL 
5  O  LU 

o  —  oc 
< 


LL  O 

<  cc 


OS 

LL  2 
LU  CC 

I< 

O  LL 

o 


I 

W  I  LL 
Z.      I  uj 

cctlz> 

LU  QCI  « 

cl  nl  cc  cc 
Ol|g< 

>-»-'§ 

i  18 


<I<W 

o-  Ll 

O  UJ 


jZO 


oo 
ceo 


l-Q 

cocc 
<< 

oo 


308 


National  Security 


<  C3 
it 


O 
lb 

zcocc 
cc<f 
<z? 


o  o 

0.  DC 

CO  o 

z  < 


o 

z  z  w  2  ^  z 

1  O  O  m  o.  < 

<uijObi- 


O 

_l  CO 

z 

ICS 

LU 

<  Q 

Z 
Z 

C3 
z 

II 

CO 

O 

CO 

z 

O  5 
Z  O 
3  O 

INTE 

LOG 

PER 

TRA 

<  o     in     in  oc  in 


<  o 
o  <r 


18 


1  < 

2  °< 

o  Q- 


r__i 


—  < 


111 


£5 


< 

—  •-  o 


0  > 

1  8 

o  < 


cue 

<&  c  — 

»  «  * 

E  c 

°S'5 

w  c  >• 


3  © 


«  S  S  ^ 

o  o  c 
a.  o.  u.  d 


8 


8 

I 

8 

•  S 

.3 

8 

& 
o 


CO 

s 


309 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


and  external  armor.  Armored  personnel  carriers  (APCs)  consist- 
ed of  1,000  M-113A2s  from  the  United  States,  more  than  1,000 
BTR-50s  and  OT-62s  from  the  Soviet  Union,  and  about  200 
Fahds,  which  were  manufactured  in  Egypt  based  on  a  design  from 
the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany).  The  army  also 
had  more  than  700  infantry  combat  vehicles  that  were  manufac- 
tured by  the  Soviet  Union  and  Spain.  Egypt  also  launched  a  pro- 
gram to  increase  the  mobility  of  artillery  and  rockets  by  mounting 
them  on  the  chassis  of  tanks  and  APCs. 

The  army  possessed  a  variety  of  antitank  rockets  and  missiles, 
including  older  Soviet  models,  Egyptian  rocket  systems  derived  from 
the  Soviet  ones,  and  Milan  missiles  from  France,  Swingfire  mis- 
siles produced  in  Egypt  under  British  license,  and  TOW  (tube- 
launched,  optically  sighted,  wire-guided)  missiles  from  the  Unit- 
ed States.  The  army  mounted  the  TOWs  and  Swingfires  on  local- 
ly built  jeeps.  A  plan  to  add  TOWs  to  Fahd  APCs  was  still  at  the 
prototype  stage  (see  table  13,  Appendix). 

During  the  1980s,  the  armed  forces  implemented  a  program  to 
improve  the  quality  and  efficiency  of  the  combat  units  by  introduc- 
ing modern  armaments  while  reducing  the  number  of  personnel. 
The  army  was  expected  to  lose  more  personnel  than  the  other 
branches  of  the  military.  The  army,  however,  had  little  incentive 
to  cut  its  enlisted  strength  because  doing  so  would  further  reduce 
the  need  for  officers,  who  were  already  in  excess  of  available  posi- 
tions. Moreover,  service  in  the  army  helped  relieve  the  nation's 
unemployment  situation  and  provided  some  soldiers  with  vocational 
training.  Nevertheless,  plans  called  for  a  reduction  in  army  strength 
by  as  much  as  25  percent. 

During  each  of  the  wars  with  Israel,  the  army  had  demonstrat- 
ed weaknesses  in  command  relationships  and  communications.  Un- 
der the  influence  of  Soviet  military  doctrine,  higher  commanders 
had  been  reluctant  to  extend  operational  flexibility  to  brigade  and 
battalion  commanders.  Rigidity  in  planning  was  another  shortcom- 
ing. Commanders  reacted  slowly  in  battlefield  situations;  the  sys- 
tem did  not  encourage  initiative  among  frontline  officers.  Prior  to 
the  October  1973  War,  the  army  made  many  improvements  in  the 
way  it  prepared  officers  for  combat.  Moreover,  the  complex  plan- 
ning that  preceded  the  Egyptian  crossing  of  the  Suez  Canal  and 
the  execution  of  the  initial  attack  demonstrated  a  high  level  of  mili- 
tary competence.  Later,  however,  when  Israel  launched  its  counter- 
attack, the  Egyptian  high  command  reacted  with  hesitation  and 
confusion,  enabling  Israel  to  gain  the  initiative  in  spite  of  deter- 
mined Egyptian  resistance. 


310 


National  Security 


Decision  making  in  the  army  continued  to  be  highly  centralized 
during  the  1980s.  Officers  below  brigade  level  rarely  made  tacti- 
cal decisions  and  required  the  approval  of  higher-ranking  authori- 
ties before  they  modified  any  operations.  Senior  army  officers  were 
aware  of  this  situation  and  began  taking  steps  to  encourage  initia- 
tive at  the  lower  levels  of  command. 

A  shortage  of  well-trained  enlisted  personnel  became  a  serious 
problem  for  the  army  as  it  adopted  increasingly  complex  weapons 
systems.  Observers  estimated  in  1986  that  75  percent  of  all  conscripts 
were  illiterate  when  they  entered  the  military  and  therefore  faced 
serious  obstacles  when  trying  to  learn  how  to  use  high-techlology 
weaponry.  Soldiers  who  had  acquired  even  the  most  basic  techni- 
cal skills  were  eager  to  leave  the  army  as  soon  as  possible  in  search 
of  higher-paying  positions  in  the  civilian  sector.  By  United  States 
standards,  the  army  underutilized  its  noncommissioned  officers 
(NCOs),  many  of  whom  were  soldiers  who  had  served  a  long  time 
but  had  not  shown  any  special  aptitude.  Officers  with  ranks  as  high 
as  major  often  conducted  training  that  would  be  carried  out  by  NCOs 
in  a  Western  army.  In  a  move  to  retain  well- trained  NCOs,  the 
army  in  the  1980s  started  providing  career  enlisted  men  with  higher 
pay,  more  amenities,  and  improved  living  conditions. 

The  Frontier  Corps,  a  lightly  armed  paramilitary  unit  of  about 
12,000  men,  mostly  beduins,  was  responsible  for  border  surveil- 
lance, general  peacekeeping,  drug  interdiction,  and  prevention  of 
smuggling.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  army  equipped  this  force  with 
remote  sensors,  night- vision  binoculars,  communications  vehicles, 
and  high-speed  motorboats. 

Air  Force 

As  of  1989,  the  Egyptian  air  force  had  more  than  500  combat 
aircraft  and  30,000  personnel,  of  which  10,000  were  conscripts. 
Its  front-rank  fighters  consisted  of  sixty-seven  multimission  F-16 
A/Cs  and  thirty- three  F-4Es  from  the  United  States,  as  well  as 
sixteen  Mirage  2000s  from  France.  A  large  inventory  of  older  MiG 
aircraft  (some  of  which  were  Chinese  versions  assembled  in  Egypt) 
backed  up  the  more  modern  fighters.  The  air  force  had  fitted  many 
of  the  MiGs  with  advanced  Western  electronics,  including  radars, 
jamming  equipment,  and  Sidewinder  and  Matra  air-to-air  mis- 
siles. The  Air  Defense  Force  exercised  operational  control  of  about 
135  MiG  interceptors,  although  its  aircraft  and  personnel  remained 
part  of  the  air  force.  Egypt  also  planned  to  exchange  crude  oil 
for  fifty  Pucara  light  ground-attack  fighters  from  Argentina.  The 
air  force  operated  seventy-two  combat  helicopters  and  a  number 
of  electronic-monitoring,  maritime-patrol,  reconnaissance,  and 


311 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


early-warning  aircraft.  Some  of  these  aircraft  were  capable  of  de- 
tecting low-flying  targets  at  great  distances  (see  table  14,  Appendix). 

When  the  Soviet  Union  became  Egypt's  principal  arms  supplier 
in  the  1950s,  it  also  played  a  preeminent  role  in  advising  and  train- 
ing the  Egyptian  air  force.  Much  of  the  Soviet  influence  on  the 
air  force's  structure  and  organization  still  prevailed  in  the  1980s, 
although  training  and  tactics  were  affected  by  the  changeover  to 
Western  equipment  and  the  advanced  training  provided  by  the 
United  States  and  other  Western  countries.  Flying  units  were  or- 
ganized into  air  brigades  that  were  headquartered  at  a  single  base. 
Brigades  officially  consisted  of  three  squadrons  that  each  had  six- 
teen to  twenty  aircraft.  Many  brigades,  however,  had  only  two 
squadrons.  With  its  headquarters  at  Heliopolis  near  Cairo,  the  air 
force  had  about  seventeen  principal  air  bases  out  of  a  total  of  forty 
major  installations,  as  well  as  reserve  and  auxiliary  bases. 

After  the  June  1967  War  and  again  after  the  October  1973  War, 
Egypt  had  to  rebuild  totally  its  air  force.  Only  a  few  hours  after 
the  June  1967  War  began,  Israel  had  virtually  wiped  out  the  Egyp- 
tian air  force.  The  government  later  tried  and  imprisoned  the  com- 
mander of  the  air  force  and  a  few  other  officers  and  purged  many 
other  senior  officers.  The  combat  efficiency  of  the  air  force,  which 
had  dropped  almost  to  nil  as  a  consequence  of  the  war  and  its  after- 
math, was  restored  by  renewed  deliveries  from  the  Soviet  Union 
and  intensified  Soviet-led  training  of  pilots  and  crews. 

When  Egypt  initiated  the  October  1973  War,  the  air  force  was 
much  better  prepared  for  its  mission.  Egypt's  air  reconnaissance 
along  the  Suez  Canal  and  its  air  strikes  against  Israeli  strong  points 
provided  essential  support  to  the  ground  forces  that  were  crossing 
the  canal.  The  air  force  then  shifted  to  Israeli  targets  in  Sinai  and 
engaged  in  frequent  dogfights  over  Suez  and  Port  Said.  Despite 
the  courage  and  competence  of  the  pilots,  Egypt's  air  force  suffered 
the  loss  of  more  than  200  aircraft  in  eighteen  days  of  combat.  Egypt 
and  Syria  together  lost  an  estimated  twelve  aircraft  for  every  air- 
craft lost  by  Israel. 

When  the  war  ended,  Sadat  repeatedly  pressed  the  Soviets  to 
replace  Egypt's  losses  with  more  advanced  aircraft  that  could  rival 
the  American  aircraft  being  flown  by  the  Israelis.  Angered  by  Soviet 
delays,  Sadat  ordered  Mirage  5  aircraft  from  France  and,  later  on, 
F-4E  fighters  from  the  United  States.  Deliveries  of  the  latter  be- 
gan in  mid- 1979.  In  addition,  two  batches  of  more  advanced  F-16s 
were  delivered  between  1986  and  1989.  Delivery  of  a  third  batch, 
which  would  bring  the  total  number  of  F-16s  in  operational  units 
to  120,  was  to  begin  in  1991.  As  of  1990,  Egypt  was  negotiating 
a  fourth  batch  of  forty-six  aircraft.  Egypt  originally  planned  to 


312 


National  Security 


purchase  forty  Mirage  2000s  from  France,  but  as  of  late  1989  no 
decision  had  been  reached  on  acquiring  the  remaining  aircraft.  With 
the  cooperation  of  Chinese  and  Western  manufacturers,  Egypt  de- 
veloped a  major  domestic  industry  that  assembled  aircraft  and  pro- 
duced parts  (see  Defense  Industry,  this  ch.). 

Navy 

Although  the  navy  was  the  smallest  branch  of  the  military,  it 
was  large  by  Middle  Eastern  standards.  After  some  years  of  neglect, 
in  1989  the  navy  was  in  the  process  of  modernization.  The  navy's 
diverse  and  challenging  missions  included  protection  of  more  than 
2,000  kilometers  of  coastline  on  the  Mediterranean  and  Red  seas, 
defense  of  approaches  to  the  Suez  Canal,  and  support  for  army 
operations.  The  navy  had  been  built  mostly  with  Soviet  equipment 
during  the  1960s  but  in  the  early  1980s  acquired  a  number  of  ves- 
sels from  China  and  Western  sources.  In  1989  the  navy  had  18,000 
personnel,  not  including  2,000  members  in  the  Coast  Guard.  Three- 
year  conscripts  accounted  for  about  half  of  the  personnel.  Prin- 
cipal bases  were  at  Alexandria  (Al  Iskandariyah),  Port  Said,  and 
Marsa  Matruh  on  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  at  Port  Tawflq  (Bur 
Tawfiq)  near  Suez,  and  at  Al  Ghardaqah  and  Bur  Safajah  on  the 
Red  Sea.  Some  fleet  units  were  stationed  in  the  Red  Sea,  but  the 
bulk  of  the  force  remained  in  the  Mediterranean.  Navy  headquar- 
ters and  the  main  operational  and  training  base  were  located  at 
Ras  at  Tin  near  Alexandria. 

The  Egyptian  navy  was  only  peripherally  involved  in  the  series 
of  conflicts  with  Israel.  During  the  1956  War,  Egyptian  destroy- 
ers and  torpedo  boats  engaged  larger  British  vessels  in  a  move  aimed 
at  undermining  the  amphibious  operations  of  the  British  and  French. 
The  Egyptian  blockade  of  ships  in  the  Strait  of  Tiran  that  were  head- 
ed toward  Israel  helped  precipitate  the  June  1967  War,  but  Egypt's 
navy  played  only  a  minor  role  in  the  overall  conflict.  The  navy's 
most  significant  action  occurred  in  October  1967,  a  few  months  af- 
ter the  cease-fire,  when  an  Egyptian  missile  boat  sank  one  of  Is- 
rael's two  destroyers  in  Egyptian  territorial  waters  off  Port  Said. 

In  the  October  1973  War,  Egypt  blocked  commercial  traffic  to 
Elat  in  the  Gulf  of  Aqaba  by  laying  mines;  it  also  attempted  to 
blockade  Israeli  ports  on  the  Mediterranean.  When  Israel  succeeded 
in  enticing  Egyptian  missile  craft  into  action,  Israeli  gunboats 
equipped  with  superior  Gabriel  missiles  sank  a  number  of  Egyp- 
tian units.  Both  navies  shelled  and  carried  out  rocket  attacks  against 
each  other's  shore  installations,  but  neither  side  experienced  any 
extensive  damage. 


313 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Egypt  maintained  satisfactory  operational  standards  for  older 
ships  at  its  own  naval  workshops  and  repair  facilities;  many  ships 
were  outfitted  at  these  facilities  with  newer  electronic  equipment 
and  weapons.  During  the  1980s,  the  navy  focused  on  upgrading 
submarine  and  antisubmarine  warfare,  improving  minesweeping 
capabilities,  and  introducing  early-warning  systems.  Libya's  mining 
of  the  Red  Sea  in  1984  focused  attention  on  the  need  to  protect 
shipping  lanes  leading  to  the  Suez  Canal  and  the  need  for  more 
advanced  mine  countermeasure  vessels.  The  navy  periodically  tested 
its  effectiveness  during  joint  operations  with  friendly  foreign  fleets. 
Egypt  regularly  carried  out  exercises  with  French  and  Italian  naval 
units  and  with  ships  of  the  United  States  Sixth  Fleet  in  a  series 
known  as  "Sea  Wind."  Exercises  were  also  scheduled  to  be  held 
with  Britain  in  1990. 

The  navy's  main  operational  subdivisions  were  the  destroyer, 
submarine,  mine  warfare,  missile  boat,  and  torpedo  boat  com- 
mands. The  most  up-to-date  combat  vessels  of  the  navy  were  two 
Descubierta-class  frigates  built  in  Spain  and  commissioned  in  1984. 
The  frigates  were  equipped  with  Aspide  missiles  and  Stingray  torpe- 
does for  antisubmarine  operations  and  with  Harpoon  SSMs.  The 
navy  commissioned  two  Chinese  frigates  of  the  Jianghu  class  in 
the  same  period.  The  navy  had  ten  Romeo-class  submarines,  of 
which  eight  were  operational,  four  provided  by  the  Soviet  Union 
and  four  by  China.  Four  of  the  submarines  were  undergoing  moder- 
nization in  an  Egyptian  shipyard  under  contract  with  an  Ameri- 
can firm.  Modernization  included  refitting  the  vessels  so  they  could 
fire  Harpoon  SSMs  and  Mk  37  torpedoes.  In  1989  Egypt  purchased 
two  Oberon-class  submarines  from  Britain.  These  submarines 
would  require  refitting  and  modernization  before  entering  Egyp- 
tian service.  Most  of  the  navy's  considerable  fleet  of  fast-attack  craft 
armed  with  missiles  or  torpedoes  came  from  the  Soviet  Union 
or  China.  The  most  modern  of  these  craft,  however,  were  six 
Ramadan-class  missile  boats  built  in  Britain  in  the  early  1980s  and 
mounted  with  Otomat  SSMs  (see  table  15,  Appendix). 

The  Coast  Guard  was  responsible  for  the  onshore  protection  of 
public  installations  near  the  coast  and  the  patrol  of  coastal  waters 
to  prevent  smuggling.  Its  inventory  consisted  of  about  thirty  large 
patrol  craft  (each  between  twenty  and  thirty  meters  in  length)  and 
twenty  smaller  Bertram-class  coastal  patrol  craft  built  in  the  Unit- 
ed States. 

The  navy  lacked  its  own  air  arm  and  depended  on  the  air  force 
for  maritime  reconnaissance  and  protection  against  submarines. 
The  air  force's  equipment  that  supported  the  navy  included  twelve 
Gazelle  and  five  Sea  King  helicopters  mounted  with  antiship  and 


314 


National  Security 


antisubmarine  missiles.  In  mid- 1988  the  air  force  also  took  deliv- 
ery of  the  first  of  six  Grumman  E-2c  Hawkeye  aircraft  with  search 
and  side-looking  radar  for  maritime  surveillance  purposes. 

Air  Defense  Force 

After  most  of  the  country's  aircraft  was  destroyed  on  the  ground 
in  1967,  the  military  placed  responsibility  for  air  defense  under 
one  commander.  Responsibility  had  previously  been  divided  among 
several  commands.  Egypt  patterned  its  new  Air  Defense  Force 
(ADF)  after  the  Soviet  Air  Defense  Command,  which  integrated 
all  its  air  defense  capabilities — antiaircraft  guns,  rocket  and  mis- 
sile units,  interceptor  planes,  and  radar  and  warning  installations. 

In  1989  the  ADF  had  an  estimated  80,000  ground  and  air  per- 
sonnel, including  50,000  conscripts.  Its  main  constituents  were  100 
antiaircraft-gun  battalions,  65  battalions  of  SA-2  SAMs,  60  battalions 
of  SA-3  SAMs,  12  batteries  of  improved  Hawk  SAMs  (I-Hawk), 
and  1  battery  of  Crotale  missiles.  Each  battalion  had  between  200 
and  500  men,  and  from  four  to  eight  battalions  composed  a  brigade. 
Gun  and  missile  sites  were  located  along  the  Suez  Canal,  around 
Cairo,  and  near  some  other  cities  to  protect  military  installations 
and  strategic  civilian  targets.  The  ADF  deployed  some  of  its  more 
mobile  weapons  in  the  Western  Desert  as  a  defense  against  possi- 
ble Libyan  incursions. 

Progress  was  being  made  on  a  national  air-defense  network  that 
would  integrate  all  existing  radars,  missile  batteries,  air  bases,  and 
command  centers  into  an  automated  command  and  control  sys- 
tem. The  ADF  planned  to  link  the  system  to  the  Hawkeye  early 
warning  aircraft. 

A  large  share  of  the  ADF's  antiaircraft  artillery,  SAMs,  and  ra- 
dar equipment  was  imported  from  the  Soviet  Union.  As  of  1989, 
the  most  modern  weapons  in  the  air  defense  system  were  the  108 
medium-altitude  I-Hawk  SAMs  acquired  from  the  United  States 
beginning  in  1982.  These  weapons  were  supplemented  by  400  older 
Soviet-made  SA-2  SAMs  with  a  slant  range  of  forty  to  fifty  kilo- 
meters and  about  240  SA-3s,  which  provided  shorter- range  defense 
against  low-flying  targets.  A  British  firm  helped  the  ADF  modern- 
ize the  SA-2s.  In  addition,  Egypt  was  producing  its  own  SAM, 
the  Tayir  as  Sabah  (Morning  Flight),  based  on  the  design  of  the 
SA-2.  The  ADF  had  mounted  sixty  Soviet  SA-6  SAMs  on  tracked 
vehicles  as  tactical  launchers.  Sixteen  tracked  vehicles  provided 
mobile  launching  platforms  for  its  fifty  French-manufactured  Cro- 
tale SAM  launchers.  Egypt  was  also  introducing  its  own  composite 
gun-missile-radar  system  known  as  Amun  (skyguard),  integrating 


315 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

radar- guided  twin  23mm  guns  with  Sparrow  and  Egyptian  Ayn 
as  Saqr  SAMs  (see  table  16,  Appendix). 

Training  and  Education 

Army  recruits  followed  a  basic  training  program  that  included, 
when  necessary,  some  remedial  literacy  training.  After  specialized 
training,  recruits  participated  in  the  annual  cycle  of  training  that 
commenced  at  the  small  unit  level  and  culminated  in  army-wide 
exercises.  Individuals  who  volunteered  to  continue  in  service  as 
NCOs  attended  a  command  school  followed  by  specialized  train- 
ing and  eventually  became  eligible  for  enrollment  in  an  advanced 
career  school  for  senior  NCOs.  Recruits  in  the  navy  and  air  force 
followed  a  similar  program  of  basic  training  followed  by  special- 
ized training.  The  navy,  however,  required  shipboard  service  be- 
fore specialization. 

Five  academies  trained  cadets  (midshipmen)  for  commissioning 
as  regular  officers.  The  academies  included  the  Military  Academy, 
the  Naval  Academy,  the  Air  Force  Academy,  the  Military  Tech- 
nical Academy,  and  the  Air  Defense  Academy.  The  oldest  of  these, 
the  Military  Academy,  was  located  in  Cairo,  having  been  founded 
after  Egyptian  independence  in  1922,  when  British  influence  in 
the  military  was  still  strong.  In  1936  the  Military  Academy  extended 
eligibility  for  admission  to  young  men  of  lower-middle-class  and 
peasant  families.  Graduates  of  the  academy  after  the  change  in  ad- 
missions policy  went  into  effect  included  Nasser,  Sadat,  and  seven 
others  of  the  group  known  as  the  Free  Officers  who  later  led  the 
1952  military  coup  that  toppled  Egypt's  monarchy. 

Candidates  applying  for  admission  to  the  Military  Academy  were 
required  to  have  a  general  secondary  school  certificate  showing 
above- average  grades.  The  academy  based  admissions  decisions 
on  the  results  of  a  competitive  academic  examination,  a  stringent 
physical  examination,  and  a  physical  fitness  test.  Sons  of  military 
and  police  personnel  and  sons  and  brothers  of  men  killed  in  action 
automatically  received  extra  points  in  the  scoring  process.  The  Mili- 
tary Academy's  curriculum  included  comprehensive  undergradu- 
ate training  and  specific  training  in  combat  arms.  Graduates  of 
the  three-year  program  were  commissioned  as  second  lieutenants. 
Newly  commissioned  army  officers  received  branch  training  at 
schools  operated  by  the  infantry,  artillery,  armor,  and  several  other 
branches. 

The  Naval  Academy,  located  at  the  Ras  at  Tin  naval  base,  offered 
an  academic  course  comparable  to  the  one  offered  by  the  Military 
Academy.  The  program  at  the  Naval  Academy,  however,  also  in- 
cluded shipboard  training  during  cruises  that  lasted  from  one  to 


316 


Egyptian  army  members 
participating  in  joint 
United  States-Egyptian 
Exercise  Bright  Star,  1982 
Courtesy  United  States 
Department  of  Defense 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

three  months.  On  graduation,  midshipmen  were  commissioned  as 
ensigns.  Engineers,  communications  specialists,  and  other  techni- 
cians also  graduated  from  the  Naval  Academy  after  following 
separate  curricula.  The  Air  Force  Academy,  about  sixty  kilometers 
northeast  of  Cairo  at  Bilbays,  had  a  curriculum  of  theoretical,  tech- 
nical, and  scientific  subjects  plus  up  to  200  hours  of  flying  instruc- 
tion. In  1988  the  Air  Force  Academy  reduced  the  period  of  study 
from  four  to  three  years.  The  academy  also  eased  the  requirement 
of  a  superior  secondary  school  academic  record  to  emphasize  stu- 
dent's aptitude  for  flying  through  a  series  of  tests.  On  successful 
completion  of  flight  training  and  the  academic  program,  gradu- 
ates were  commissioned  as  pilots  or  navigators;  those  who  did  not 
qualify  were  given  administrative  assignments  in  the  air  force  or, 
in  some  cases,  were  transferred  to  another  service. 

The  Military  Technical  Academy  (also  known  as  the  Armed 
Forces  Technical  College),  was  located  at  Heliopolis.  It  educated 
technical  officers  for  all  armed  forces  and  therefore  reduced  the  need 
for  foreign  technical  advisers.  The  Military  Technical  Academy's 
admissions  office  had  more  stringent  entrance  requirements  than 
the  Military  Academy;  applicants  had  to  have  a  superior  academic 
record  in  secondary- school  science  courses.  Applicants  to  the  Mili- 
tary Technical  Academy  also  faced  more  difficult  qualifying  ex- 
aminations in  science  and  mathematics.  Because  of  their  intensive 
curriculum,  graduates  were  commissioned  as  first  lieutenants. 
Selected  civilians  who  made  a  commitment  to  government  service 
could  also  enroll  in  the  Military  Technical  Academy.  Under  Abu 
Ghazala,  the  Military  Technical  Academy  was  upgraded  by  the 
grant  of  scarce  resources  for  research  in  spite  of  retrenchment  at 
civilian  research  facilities.  The  Academy  of  Military  Medicine 
trained  health  workers  and  medical  professionals.  In  1986  the  Peo- 
ple's Assembly  passed  legislation  calling  for  the  development  of 
a  new  Military  Academy  for  Administrative  Sciences.  The  Air  De- 
fense Academy,  which  opened  in  Alexandria  in  1974,  required  five 
years  of  study  leading  to  a  bachelor's  degree  in  engineering.  Ad- 
ditional training  followed  on  individual  air  defense  systems. 

The  Command  and  General  Staff  College  was  founded  in  Cairo 
in  1939  as  the  Army  Staff  College,  a  name  still  frequently  used. 
The  school  provided  training  in  staff  duties  and  command  respon- 
sibilities for  selected  officers,  usually  majors  and  junior  lieutenant 
colonels.  The  college  provided  intensive  study  of  tactics,  logistics, 
operations  planning,  and  administration.  The  duration  of  the  aca- 
demic program  was  about  eighteen  months.  Graduates  received 
masters'  degrees  in  military  science  and  were  considered  qualified 
for  assignment  to  staff  positions  at  the  division  level  and  higher 


318 


National  Security 


or  to  command  a  battalion  or  brigade.  Completion  of  the  staff  col- 
lege or  an  appropriate  educational  equivalent  was  a  prerequisite 
for  acceptance  to  senior  military  colleges. 

Named  in  honor  of  Egypt's  president  at  the  time,  the  Nasser 
High  Military  Academy  was  founded  in  1965.  It  was  dedicated 
to  the  advanced  education  of  senior  officers  of  the  armed  forces 
and  selected  civilian  government  officials.  It  encompassed  both  the 
Higher  War  College  and  the  National  Defense  College  and  was 
the  summit  of  the  officer  education  system.  Studies  at  the  Higher 
War  College  lasted  for  one  year  and  emphasized  familiarity  with 
Egypt's  military,  economic,  and  international  situation.  This  in- 
stitution, which  prepared  students  to  participate  in  the  formula- 
tion of  Egypt's  foreign  and  defense  policies,  awarded  its  graduates 
doctoral  degrees  in  military  sciences  and  national  strategy.  Foreign- 
ers were  not  permitted  to  enroll,  but  special  courses  were  held  for 
officers  of  friendly  countries,  such  as  Iraq,  Somalia,  Sudan,  and 
Tunisia.  In  addition,  beginning  in  1980  the  college  held  a  number 
of  symposia  on  African  strategic  issues  and  invited  participants  from 
most  of  the  African  countries. 

The  National  Defense  College  admitted  qualified  applicants  who 
were  either  senior  officers  or  ranking  civilians  from  state  and  public- 
sector  institutions.  The  college  gave  preference  to  persons  with  a 
master's  degree.  The  academic  program,  which  lasted  eleven 
months,  emphasized  national  strategic  planning  and  mobilization 
problems  to  develop  a  civilian's  capabilities  to  hold  a  leadership 
position  in  state  agencies. 

Egypt  started  sending  selected  officers  abroad  for  advanced  train- 
ing as  early  as  the  1930s.  Between  the  mid- 1940s  and  mid-1950s, 
hundreds  of  Egyptian  officers  attended  schools  in  Britain,  France, 
and  the  United  States.  When  the  Soviet  Union  became  the  chief 
supplier  of  Egypt's  arms  and  equipment,  it  became  the  focal  point 
of  foreign  military  training.  After  Egypt  severed  relations  with  Brit- 
ain and  the  United  States  in  1967,  training  abroad  was  conducted 
almost  exclusively  in  the  Soviet  Union,  although  a  few  officers  con- 
tinued to  attend  French  schools.  Although  some  officers  believed 
that  the  standard  of  instruction  in  Soviet  institutions  was  seriously 
deficient,  nearly  all  Egyptian  officers  below  the  rank  of  major 
general  at  the  time  of  the  October  1973  War  had  attended  staff 
schools  or  received  specialized  training  in  the  Soviet  Union.  Since 
the  1970s,  Egypt  sent  almost  all  of  its  advanced  military  students 
to  institutions  in  Western  countries. 

Conscription  and  Reserves 

The  Constitution  mandates  conscription  but  provides  a  variety 


319 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

of  options  for  national  service.  Conscripts  may  be  required  to  serve 
in  the  armed  forces,  the  police,  the  prison- guard  service,  or  a  mili- 
tary economic  service  unit.  In  1988  almost  12.5  million  men  were 
between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and  forty-nine.  More  than  8  million 
of  these  men  were  considered  fit  for  military  service.  Although 
519,000  men  reached  the  draft  age  of  twenty  each  year,  only  about 
80,000  of  these  men  were  conscripted  to  serve  in  the  armed  forces. 
Women  were  not  subject  to  conscription. 

Volunteers  earned  considerably  higher  salaries  and  twice  as  much 
leave  time  as  conscripts.  Those  conscripts  who  chose  to  reenlist  were 
often  among  the  less  qualified.  The  result  of  this  situation  was  a 
scarcity  of  NCOs  with  the  proper  level  of  proficiency.  The  navy 
and  the  air  force  had  a  smaller  conscript-to- volunteer  ratio,  but 
these  branches  of  the  military  faced  similar  problems.  In  all  ser- 
vices senior  NCOs  could  become  candidates  for  commissions  after 
eight  years  of  duty.  These  NCOs  usually  were  those  with  func- 
tional specialties  who  could  qualify  as  warrant  officers. 

Conscripts  served  three  years  of  active  duty  after  which  they  re- 
mained in  reserve  for  an  additional  period.  Conscripts  with  degrees 
from  institutions  of  higher  education  had  to  serve  only  eighteen 
months.  The  government  required  all  males  to  register  for  the  draft 
when  they  reached  age  sixteen.  The  government  delineated  several 
administrative  zones  for  conscription  purposes.  Each  zone  had  a 
council  of  military  officers,  civil  officials,  and  medical  officers  who 
selected  draftees.  Local  mayors  and  village  leaders  also  participated 
in  the  selection  process.  After  the  council  granted  exemptions  and 
deferments,  it  chose  conscripts  by  lot  from  the  roster  of  remaining 
names.  Individuals  eligible  to  be  inducted  were  on  call  for  three 
years.  After  that  period,  they  could  no  longer  be  drafted. 

Although  it  was  no  longer  possible  for  a  prospective  conscript  to 
pay  a  fee  in  lieu  of  service,  he  could  still  apply  for  an  exemption. 
Men  employed  in  permanent  government  positions,  an  only  remain- 
ing son  whose  brothers  had  died  in  service,  men  employed  in  essential 
industries,  and  family  breadwinners  were  all  eligible  for  exemptions. 

The  military  authorities  did  not  give  strong  emphasis  to  main- 
taining reserve  forces.  Foreign  military  observers  believed  that  the 
reserves  would  be  of  minimal  value  in  the  event  of  an  emergency. 
An  estimated  335,000  men  were  in  the  reserves  in  the  early  1980s 
(300,000  army  and  ADF,  15,000  navy,  and  20,000  air  force).  The 
total  was  expected  to  decline  to  about  200,000  by  the  early  1990s. 

Conditions  of  Service 

Between  1981  and  1989,  commander  in  chief  Abu  Ghazala  estab- 
lished his  popularity  with  the  armed  forces  by  substantially  improving 


320 


National  Security 


the  living  conditions  of  military  careerists.  The  cabinet  approved 
periodic  pay  increases,  but  salaries  were  not  as  high  as  in  the  pri- 
vate sector.  Still,  the  combination  of  salaries  and  benefits  provid- 
ed officers  with  a  comfortable  living.  As  of  1989,  it  was  less  common 
for  officers  to  hold  second  jobs.  Many  retired  officers,  however, 
were  employed  in  the  state-owned  defense  production  sector. 
Officers'  special  privileges  included  the  opportunity  to  purchase 
cars  at  reduced  prices,  access  to  superior  health  care  and  hospi- 
tals, visits  to  specially  designated  resort  areas,  and  club  member- 
ships. Officers  shopped  at  clean,  well-stocked  commissaries  that 
carried  duty-free  or  subsidized  foods,  which  were  often  unavail- 
able on  the  local  market.  Children  of  career  personnel  received 
preferential  treatment  when  they  applied  for  admission  to  institu- 
tions of  higher  learning.  Under  Abu  Ghazala,  ordinary  soldiers 
received  a  narrower  range  of  benefits,  but  their  housing,  rations, 
and  uniforms  improved.  Soldiers  seemed  well-fed  and  neady  turned 
out.  NCOs  earned  salaries  that  were  high  enough  for  them  to  afford 
adequate  accommodations  for  their  families.  Draftees'  living  con- 
ditions remained  far  less  favorable.  Their  monthly  earnings  amount- 
ed to  less  than  US$10  in  the  late  1980s. 

To  attract  people  to  the  uniformed  services,  the  military  began 
offering  recruits  comfortable  apartments  in  new  "military  cities." 
Most  of  these  cities  were  located  in  the  desert  just  outside  Cairo 
and  other  major  cities  and  near  the  Suez  area,  where  there  was 
a  high  concentration  of  military  installations.  As  of  1986,  the  mili- 
tary had  built  thirteen  of  these  cities  and  was  constructing  another 
ten.  The  largest  of  these  was  Nasser  City  near  Heliopolis,  where 
an  estimated  250,000  people  lived  in  1986.  Other  military  cities 
were  designed  to  accommodate  as  many  as  150,000  residents,  in- 
cluding troops  in  new  barracks.  Each  city  generally  included  a  large 
number  of  apartment  blocks,  as  well  as  primary  schools,  high 
schools,  nurseries,  mosques,  supermarkets,  social  clubs,  banks,  a 
water  purification  system,  and  solar  heating. 

The  military  raised  some  of  the  capital  needed  to  erect  the  mili- 
tary cities  from  the  sale  of  valuable  land  it  owned  in  the  center  of 
Cairo.  With  subsidized  prices  and  favorable  loan  terms,  career  mili- 
tary personnel  could  typically  buy  an  apartment  for  £E12,000  as 
of  1986  (for  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound,  see  Glossary),  with  down 
payments  ranging  from  £E1,000  to  £E3,000,  amortized  over  thirty 
years.  Some  officers  profited  by  subletting  their  apartments  to 
civilians.  In  addition,  land  was  made  available  within  the  military 
cities  for  construction  of  civilian  apartment  blocks.  As  of  1986,  con- 
struction in  military  cities  accounted  for  5  percent  of  all  Egyptian 
residential  construction. 


321 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Defense  Spending 

The  burden  of  defense  expenditures  on  the  economy  was  difficult 
to  assess  because  the  military  did  not  make  this  information  pub- 
lic and  did  not  provide  details  to  the  People's  Assembly  as  part 
of  the  annual  budget.  The  last  time  defense  outlays  were  made  pub- 
lic was  in  1983,  when  the  minister  of  finance  stated  that  the  mili- 
tary would  receive  £E2.1  billion  (about  US$3  billion  at  the  1983 
rate  of  exchange)  in  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary)  1983.  The 
amount  was  22  percent  higher  than  the  amount  for  the  preceding 
year  and  equaled  1 3  percent  of  total  central  government  expendi- 
tures. In  early  1989,  Abu  Ghazala  indicated  that  military  expen- 
ditures amounted  to  £E2.4  billion  or  10  percent  of  total  government 
spending. 

According  to  estimates  published  in  The  Military  Balance, 
1989-1990  by  the  London-based  International  Institute  for  Stra- 
tegic Studies,  Egypt's  actual  military  expenditures  were  much 
higher  than  official  figures.  According  to  the  institute,  defense  out- 
lays amounted  to  about  £E4  billion  in  FY  1988  and  £E4.7  billion 
in  FY  1989.  The  institute's  estimates,  however,  did  not  include 
funds  received  directly  from  other  sources,  such  as  the  United 
States,  which  contributed  US$1.3  billion  each  year.  The  military 
also  received  an  undisclosed  amount  from  Saudi  Arabia  and  earned 
foreign  exchange  from  exports  of  domestically  manufactured  mili- 
tary equipment.  The  military  reportedly  produced  as  much  as  60 
percent  of  its  consumable  requirements  (food,  uniforms,  and  other 
goods)  at  its  own  farms  and  factories,  but  it  was  not  clear  whether 
the  value  of  this  production  was  fully  reported  in  the  budget. 

According  to  estimates  compiled  by  the  United  States  Arms  Con- 
trol and  Disarmament  Agency  (AC DA),  Egypt's  military  expen- 
ditures fell  to  about  US$4  billion  annually  between  1979  and  1981 
because  of  Sadat's  decision  to  cut  the  military  budget  by  half  in 
the  wake  of  the  peace  accord  with  Israel.  In  1982,  the  year  after 
Abu  Ghazala  took  office,  defense  expenditures  rose  sharply  to 
US$7.4  billion,  according  to  the  ACDA.  Defense  expenditures  ta- 
pered off  during  the  subsequent  five  years  to  US$6.5  billion  as  the 
nation's  mounting  financial  difficulties  necessitated  retrenchment 
in  all  budget  categories.  The  ACDA  estimates,  calculated  in  con- 
stant 1987  dollars,  included  arms  imports  and  foreign  military  aid. 

The  ACDA  data  also  indicated  that  military  expenditures  as  a 
share  of  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  had  fallen 
from  22.8  percent  in  1977  to  9.2  percent  in  1987.  Military  expen- 
ditures as  a  share  of  all  central  government  expenditures  had  fallen 
from  more  than  40  percent  in  1977  to  22.3  percent  in  1987.  Annual 


322 


United  States  Air  Force  A-10 
Thunderbolt  shares  an  Egyptian 
airfield  with  a  Soviet-built 
Egyptian  Armed  Forces 
"Hip-C"  helicopter. 
Exercise  Bright  Star 
Courtesy  United  States 
Department  of  Defense 


United  States  Army  paratrooper 
works  with  his  Egyptian  Army 
counterpart  prior  to  a 
simulated  combat  air  assault. 

Exercise  Bright  Star 
Courtesy  United  States 
Department  of  Defense 


323 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


per  capita  military  expenditures  fell  from  US$229  in  1977  to 
US$126  in  1987  (expressed  in  constant  1987  dollars).  Repayments 
on  military  credits  extended  by  the  United  States,  France,  West 
Germany,  Spain,  Britain,  and  other  countries  amounted  to  about 
US$1  billion  a  year — Egypt's  total  foreign  debt- servicing  obliga- 
tions amounted  to  US$4  billion  a  year. 

Compared  with  the  Middle  East  as  a  whole,  Egypt's  defense 
expenditures  were  relatively  modest.  In  1987  average  military  ex- 
penditures in  the  region  amounted  to  1 1  percent  of  GNP  and  32 
percent  of  total  central  government  expenditures.  Per  capita  mili- 
tary expenditures  in  the  region  totaled  US$396  (Syria,  Iraq,  and 
Iran  were  on  a  wartime  footing  when  these  figures  were  compiled). 

Military  Justice 

The  Military  Justice  Law  of  1966  superseded  a  code  of  military 
justice  that  the  British  enacted  in  1893.  Three  major  concepts  un- 
derlay the  1966  law:  military  law  must  be  consonant  with  the  general 
law  of  the  land;  crimes  committed  by  military  personnel  (such  as 
theft  and  embezzlement)  were  especially  serious  because  they  could 
endanger  national  security;  and  the  armed  forces  should  be  role 
models  for  the  rest  of  the  country  and  should  set  ethical  standards 
by  promptly  punishing  personnel  who  violate  laws. 

The  1966  law  spelled  out  different  legal  procedures  for  adminis- 
trative violations,  misdemeanors,  and  felonies;  this  system  was  simi- 
lar to  the  one  used  throughout  the  country  for  civilians.  The  military 
court  system  was  similar  to  most  Western  military  court  systems 
but  had  courts  whose  size  and  authority  varied  according  to  the 
level  of  command.  Military  personnel  had  the  right  of  trial  before 
military  courts  even  for  common  crimes  against  civilians.  This  ar- 
rangement, however,  was  under  debate  in  the  late  1980s  because 
many  civilians  doubted  military  judges'  qualifications  and  the  ef- 
ficacy of  the  military  courts.  Military  courts  also  had  jurisdiction 
in  cases  involving  offenses  against  military  personnel  and  property. 
Since  1958  the  country's  state  of  emergency  has  entitled  the  presi- 
dent to  refer  civilian  cases  to  military  courts  when  the  offenses  in- 
volved issues  of  national  security. 

The  accused  had  the  right  to  defense  by  an  officer  or  by  a  civilian 
attorney.  Verdicts,  announced  in  open  session,  were  not  final  un- 
til a  higher  authority  approved  them.  The  ultimate  authority  was 
the  president,  who  could  delegate  his  authority  to  the  minister  of 
defense  or  another  official.  The  accused  also  had  the  right  of  ap- 
peal. The  1966  law  outlawed  cruel  punishment,  such  as  flogging, 
and  established  maximum  sentences  for  various  categories  of  crimes. 


324 


National  Security 


The  1966  law  authorized  the  death  penalty  for  treason,  mur- 
der, and  the  destruction  or  sabotage  of  weapons  or  equipment  of 
the  armed  forces.  A  1970  amendment  to  the  law  defined  twelve 
treasonable  offenses  that  could  be  punished  by  execution.  These 
offenses  included  misconduct  before  the  enemy,  surrendering  or 
abandoning  installations  or  troops  to  the  enemy,  and  giving  aid 
and  comfort  to  the  enemy.  In  addition,  anyone  abetting  any  of 
the  twelve  treasonable  crimes  through  error  or  negligence  or  con- 
tributing to  dereliction  of  duty  could  be  sentenced  to  life  imprison- 
ment at  hard  labor.  Confiscation  of  government  property  for  private 
use  was  also  punishable  by  life  imprisonment. 

Uniforms  and  Insignia 

Egyptian  military  uniforms  were  similar  to  British  uniforms.  Each 
branch  of  the  military  had  dress,  service  or  garrison,  and  field  uni- 
forms. Dress  uniforms  were  worn  mostly  on  formal  occasions.  The 
service  uniform  was  worn  for  daily  duty.  The  service  uniform  for 
the  ground  forces  was  khaki  cotton;  personnel  in  the  air  force  wore 
blue,  and  the  navy  wore  navy  blue  in  winter  and  white  in  sum- 
mer. Egyptian  officers  purchased  their  uniforms,  but  enlisted  per- 
sonnel received  a  standard  uniform  issue,  which  consisted  of  service 
and  field  uniforms,  fatigues,  and  in  some  cases,  dress  uniforms. 

Rank  insignia  were  similar  for  the  army,  navy,  and  air  force. 
The  grade  structure  had  seventeen  ranks  ranging  from  private  to 
general.  Each  rank  had  a  counterpart  in  all  services.  Commissioned 
officers  in  the  army  and  navy  wore  gold  insignia  on  shoulder  boards; 
officers  in  the  air  force  wore  silver  ones.  Army  enlisted  personnel 
wore  green  stripes;  air  force  enlisted  personnel  wore  blue  stripes 
on  the  upper  sleeve  (see  fig.  9). 

Armed  Forces  Production 
Production  of  Civilian  Goods 

Beginning  in  1978  the  armed  forces  launched  a  number  of  en- 
terprises that  produced  goods  for  military  and  civilian  use.  The 
National  Service  Project  Organization  (NSPO)  controlled  these  en- 
terprises. The  government  set  up  the  NSPO  to  help  reorient  the 
military  toward  national  economic  development  efforts  as  the  mili- 
tary's  role  in  defense  diminished  after  the  1979  peace  treaty  with 
Israel.  Moreover,  government  officials  believed  that  national  secu- 
rity would  be  bolstered  if  the  military  achieved  a  degree  of  self- 
sufficiency  in  food  and  other  essential  supplies. 

Agriculture,  the  most  important  sector  of  military  production, 
accounted  for  £E488  million  in  production  in  FY  1985,  the  last 


325 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


National  Security 


year  for  which  data  were  available.  The  output  of  nonmilitary 
manufactured  goods  amounted  to  £E347  million  in  FY  1985,  con- 
struction £E174  million,  and  other  goods  and  services  £E144  mil- 
lion. Military-operated  facilities  (including  dairy  and  poultry  farms, 
fisheries,  cattle  feedlots,  vegetable  and  fruit  farms,  bakeries,  and 
food-processing  plants)  accounted  for  18  percent  of  the  nation's 
total  food  production  in  FY  1985.  The  military  consumed  much 
of  the  food  it  produced,  selling  the  surplus  in  commissaries  and 
through  civilian  commercial  channels. 

Military-operated  manufacturing  enterprises  included  factories 
that  produced  clothing,  doors,  window  frames,  stationery,  phar- 
maceutical packaging,  and  microscopes.  Abu  Ghazala  planned  to 
develop  a  military-operated  automobile  assembly  plant  with  as- 
sistance from  General  Motors  Corporation,  but  the  government 
shelved  the  idea  because  of  widespread  criticism  on  both  economic 
and  political  grounds. 

The  military  was  also  involved  in  a  number  of  infrastructure 
projects.  It  installed  more  than  40  percent  of  the  new  telephone 
links  covered  in  the  First  Five-Year  Plan  (FY  1982-86).  It  con- 
structed power  lines,  sewers,  bridges,  and  overpasses  in  Cairo  and 
elsewhere.  It  also  participated  in  land  reclamation  projects. 

Many  career  military  officers  disapproved  of  the  military's  role 
in  national  economic  development  projects;  they  believed  that  the 
armed  forces  should  concentrate  on  the  nation's  security.  Others, 
however,  believed  the  projects  improved  the  military's  image  and 
made  the  armed  forces  seem  more  efficient  than  the  public  sector. 
Senior  officers  argued  that  these  projects  had  no  effect  on  combat 
capabilities  because  the  soldiers  employed  on  them  were  not  phys- 
ically qualified  for  normal  military  functions.  The  precise  number 
of  troops  detailed  to  economic  development  was  not  disclosed, 
although  observers  have  estimated  that  tens  of  thousands  of  troops 
were  so  engaged.  Food  production  employed  5,000  service  person- 
nel, including  about  500  officers,  in  1986.  In  the  same  year,  Abu 
Ghazala  announced  that  he  would  assign  30,000  conscripts  to  newly 
created  development  regiments  after  they  received  special  train- 
ing following  basic  training. 

Opposition  politicians  and  some  business  people  complained  that 
the  military  competed  with  the  private  sector  in  the  country's  de- 
velopment efforts.  Critics  argued  that  the  private  sector  would  be 
at  a  disadvantage  as  long  as  the  armed  forces  were  exempt  from 
taxes,  import  licenses,  and  business  permits  and  were  not  held  ac- 
countable for  profits  or  losses.  Some  business  people,  however,  liked 
the  military's  growing  role  in  the  economy  because  many  of  them 


327 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

were  awarded  lucrative  contracts  from  the  military  for  a  variety 
of  goods  and  services. 

Defense  Industry 

Egypt  was  the  most  important  manufacturer  of  weapons  and  mili- 
tary components  among  the  Arab  countries.  State-owned  enter- 
prises, under  control  of  the  Armament  Authority  headed  by  a  major 
general,  were  the  main  domestic  producers  of  Egypt's  defense  sys- 
tems. The  Armament  Authority  was  responsible  for  selecting,  de- 
veloping, and  procuring  military  systems.  Acting  on  behalf  of  the 
military's  branches,  the  authority  assigned  production  to  domes- 
tic factories  or  contracted  with  external  suppliers. 

As  early  as  1949,  Egypt  unveiled  plans  to  develop  its  own  air- 
craft and  armaments  industry  with  the  industrial  base  that  emerged 
during  World  War  II  when  British  and  American  forces  placed 
orders  for  equipment.  Egypt  entered  into  a  number  of  joint  ven- 
ture projects  to  produce  European-designed  aircraft.  The  most  suc- 
cessful of  these  led  to  the  Jumhuriya  basic  flight  trainer,  of  which 
about  200  were  eventually  made.  In  1962  Egypt  undertook  a  major 
program  with  the  help  of  West  German  technicians  to  design  and 
build  a  supersonic  jet  fighter,  but  the  government  terminated  the 
project  because  of  financial  strains  caused  by  the  June  1967  War. 
In  a  separate  program  assisted  by  West  German  scientists  and  tech- 
nicians, the  air  force  built  prototypes  of  three  SSM  designs.  These 
designs,  however,  were  never  put  into  operational  use. 

During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Egypt  expanded  and  diversified 
its  production  of  arms  to  achieve  partial  self-sufficiency  and  to  de- 
velop an  export  market  in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  In  addition 
to  manufacturing  small  arms  and  ammunition,  Egypt  had  begun 
producing  or  assembling  more  advanced  weapons  systems  through 
licensing  and  joint  venture  agreements  with  companies  based  in 
the  United  States  and  Western  Europe.  Egyptian  technicians  and 
scientists  developed  several  indigenous  weapons  systems. 

The  National  Organization  for  Military  Production  within  the 
Ministry  of  Military  Production  supervised  a  number  of  manufac- 
turing plants,  which  were  usually  named  after  their  location.  These 
plants  included  the  Abu  Zaabal  Company  for  Engineering  Indus- 
tries, which  produced  artillery  pieces  and  barrels;  the  Abu  Zaabal 
Tank  Repair  Factory,  which  overhauled  and  repaired  tanks  and 
would  eventually  become  the  producer  of  Egypt's  main  battle  tank; 
the  Al  Maadi  Company  for  Engineering  Industries,  which  produced 
light  weapons,  including  the  Egyptian  version  of  the  Soviet  AK-47 
assault  rifle;  the  Hulwan  Company  for  Machine  Tools,  which 
produced  mortars  and  rocket  launchers;  the  Hulwan  Company  for 


328 


National  Security 


Engineering  Industries,  which  produced  metal  parts  for  ammuni- 
tion, shells,  bombs,  and  rockets;  the  Heliopolis  Company  for  Chem- 
ical Industries,  which  produced  artillery  ordnance,  bombs,  and 
missile  warheads;  and  the  Banha  Company  for  Electronic  Indus- 
tries, which  produced  communications  devices. 

In  1975  Egypt,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  founded  the  Arab  Organization  for  Industrialization  (AOI) 
and  capitalized  the  new  organization  with  more  than  US$1  bil- 
lion. These  countries  set  up  the  AOI  to  establish  an  Arab  defense 
industry  by  combining  Egypt's  managerial  ability  and  industrial 
labor  force  with  the  Arab  countries'  oil  money  and  foreign  tech- 
nology. The  bulk  of  the  arms  manufacturing  was  intended  to  take 
place  in  Egypt.  But  the  AOI  foundered  before  it  could  become  a 
major  arms  producer  because  the  Arab  states  broke  relations  with 
Egypt  over  Sadat's  peace  initiatives  with  Israel.  Egypt  kept  the  AOI 
functioning  in  spite  of  a  1979  proclamation  by  Saudi  Arabia  dis- 
solving the  body.  Some  of  the  AOI's  members  have  renewed  mili- 
tary contacts,  but  as  of  1989,  the  AOI  had  not  been  restored  to 
its  original  status. 

The  AOI  had  operated  as  an  independent  enterprise  since  1979 
and  was  exempt  from  Egyptian  taxes  and  business  restrictions.  The 
AOI  consisted  of  nine  companies,  five  wholly  owned  by  Egypt  and 
four  joint  ventures.  The  Egyptian  plants  manufactured  missiles, 
rockets,  aircraft  engine  parts,  armored  personnel  carriers,  electron- 
ics, radar,  communications  gear,  and  assembled  aircraft.  A  joint 
venture  with  French  firms  assembled  Gazelle  combat  helicopters 
and  helicopter  engines.  A  joint  venture  with  the  British  manufac- 
tured the  Swingfire  antitank  guided  missile,  while  another  venture 
with  the  Chrysler  Corporation  produced  jeeps. 

As  of  1990,  Egypt  did  not  manufacture  its  own  aircraft,  but  it 
assembled  Tucano  primary  trainers  from  Brazil,  Chenyang  fight- 
ers from  China,  and  Alpha  Jet  trainers  designed  in  France  and 
West  Germany.  Egyptian  technicians  had  also  reverse  engineered 
and  modified  two  Soviet  SAMs — the  Ayn  as  Saqr  (a  version  of  the 
SA-7)  and  the  Tayir  as  Sabah  (a  version  of  the  SA-2).  Egyptian 
shipyards  had  produced  eight  fast  attack  naval  craft  fitted  with  Brit- 
ish armaments  and  electronics. 

The  only  armored  vehicle  in  production  was  the  Fahd  four- 
wheeled  APC,  although  the  United  States  and  Egypt  planned  to 
coproduce  540  Abrams  M1A1  main  battle  tanks  over  a  ten-year 
period  beginning  in  1991.  The  project  would  be  funded  largely 
through  United  States  military  aid;  the  United  States  would  also 
supply  the  engines  and  fire  control  systems.  According  to  some 
reports,  Egypt  was  reconsidering  the  project  because  of  its  high 


329 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

cost.  But  as  of  late  1989,  Egypt  appeared  to  be  going  forward  with 
the  plan. 

In  September  1989,  Egypt  had  reportedly  dropped  out  of  the 
Condor  II  project,  cosponsored  with  Argentina  and  Iraq,  to  develop 
an  intermediate-range  (800-kilometer)  SSM.  Earlier  that  year,  offi- 
cials in  the  United  States  had  arrested  several  persons,  including 
two  military  officers  attached  to  the  Embassy  of  Egypt  in  Washing- 
ton, in  connection  with  the  illegal  export  of  missile  technology  and 
materials  needed  to  produce  rocket  fuel  and  nose  cones. 

In  March  1989,  United  States  and  Swiss  officials  claimed  that 
Egypt  had  imported  from  Switzerland  the  main  elements  of  a  plant 
capable  of  manufacturing  poison  gas.  Mubarak  denied  that  Egypt 
had  either  the  facilities  or  the  plans  for  producing  chemical  weapons. 

The  main  purchaser  of  Egyptian  defense  products  had  been  Iraq. 
In  the  early  1980s,  Iraq  was  desperate  to  replace  Soviet  military 
equipment  lost  during  the  early  stages  of  the  war  with  Iran.  Iraq 
blunted  Iranian  attacks  with  the  Saqr  18,  the  Egyptian  version  of 
the  Soviet  BM-21  122mm  multiple  rocket  launcher. 

Egypt  sold  a  smaller  volume  of  weapons  to  Kuwait  and  other 
Persian  Gulf  states.  In  1988  Kuwait  was  reported  to  have  ordered 
about  100  Fahd  armored  personnel  carriers;  Oman  and  Sudan  or- 
dered smaller  quantities  of  these  carriers.  Because  Egypt  considered 
the  value  of  its  military  exports  confidential,  it  omitted  this  infor- 
mation from  its  published  trade  statistics.  According  to  AGDA, 
Egypt  exported  US$340  million  worth  of  military  equipment  in 
1982,  declining  to  an  average  of  US$70  million  annually  in  the 
years  from  1985  to  1987.  The  ACDA  data  was  considered  conser- 
vative. Other  estimates  have  placed  Egyptian  defense  exports  as 
high  as  US$1  billion  in  1982  and  US$500  million  annually  in  1983 
and  1984,  when  deliveries  to  Iraq  were  at  their  peak. 

International  observers  believed  that  Egypt  has  not  engaged  in 
efforts  to  develop  a  nuclear  weapons  capability.  Egypt  had  a  small 
nuclear  research  reactor  that  was  built  with  Soviet  assistance,  but 
the  Soviets  controlled  the  disposal  of  the  facility's  spent  fuel.  In 
any  event,  the  facility  was  not  capable  of  producing  a  significant 
amount  of  weapons- grade  material.  Egypt  signed  the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in  1968  but  de- 
layed ratifying  it,  presumably  because  the  government  had  evi- 
dence that  Israel  had  embarked  on  a  nuclear  weapons  program. 
In  1975  the  United  States  agreed  in  principle  on  a  program  to  supply 
Egypt  with  power  reactors.  The  plan  was  subject  to  a  trilateral  safe- 
guards agreement  signed  by  the  United  States,  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency,  and  Egypt.  Although  financing  problems 


330 


National  Security 


stalled  construction  of  power  reactors  from  the  United  States,  Egypt 
ratified  the  NPT  in  1981,  in  order  to  be  able  to  conclude  agree- 
ments with  other  countries  for  the  construction  of  atomic  energy 
production  facilities. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance 

Between  1955  and  1975,  the  Egyptian  armed  forces  depended 
heavily  on  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Soviet  Union  provided  Egypt 
with  grants  and  loans  to  pay  for  equipment,  training,  and  the  ser- 
vices of  large  numbers  of  military  advisers.  The  Soviets  initially 
supplied  outmoded  equipment  from  surplus  stocks  to  help  Egypt 
replenish  its  forces  after  the  1956  War,  but  in  the  early  1960s,  the 
Soviet  Union  began  furnishing  up-to-date  MiG-21  fighter  aircraft, 
SA-2  SAMs,  and  T-54  tanks.  The  Soviet  Union  and  the  German 
Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany)  supplied  large  numbers  of 
trainers  and  technicians,  and  Egypt  sent  many  of  its  officers  to 
Soviet  military  institutions  to  learn  new  organizational  and  stra- 
tegic doctrines. 

Egypt's  defeat  in  the  June  1967  War  deepened  the  Soviet  Union's 
involvement  in  Egypt's  military  (see  War  of  Attrition  and  the  Oc- 
tober 1973  War,  this  ch.).  By  the  early  1970s,  the  number  of  Soviet 
personnel  in  Egypt  had  risen  to  nearly  20,000.  They  participated 
in  operational  decisions  and  served  at  the  battalion  and  sometimes 
even  company  levels. 

Soviet  advisers'  patronizing  attitudes,  Moscow's  slow  response  to 
requests  for  more  sophisticated  equipment,  and  Cairo's  desire  for 
more  freedom  in  preparing  for  a  new  conflict  were  considered  by 
observers  as  some  of  the  reasons  for  Sadat's  decision  to  expel  most 
Soviet  military  personnel  in  July  1972.  The  Soviet  Union  continued 
to  provide  equipment,  spare  parts,  and  replacements  for  equip- 
ment lost  during  the  October  1973  War,  but  Sadat  was  becoming 
increasingly  disenchanted  with  Egypt's  reliance  on  Soviet  weaponry. 
In  March  1976,  Sadat  asked  the  People's  Assembly  to  abrogate 
the  1971  Soviet-Egyptian  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation. 

After  Egypt  and  Israel  signed  their  peace  treaty  in  1979,  the  Unit- 
ed States  strove  to  increase  deliveries  of  armaments  to  Egypt  and  to 
provide  the  country  with  American  military  advisers  and  training. 
By  1989  this  aid  averaged  US$1.3  billion  a  year  and  had  totaled 
more  than  US$12  billion.  Egypt  was  the  second  largest  recipient 
of  United  States  military  aid  after  Israel,  which  received  US$1.8 
billion  annually.  The  United  States  supplied  a  number  of  major 
weapons  systems,  including  F-4  and  F-16  fighter  aircraft,  C-130 
transports,  E-2C  Hawkeye  electronic  surveillance  aircraft,  M60A3 
tanks,  M-113A2  APCs,  I-Hawk  antiaircraft  missile  batteries,  and 


331 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

improved  TOW  antitank  missiles.  The  United  States  military  as- 
sistance program  for  FY  1990  included  initial  funding  for  M1A1 
tank  coproduction,  attack  helicopters,  and  equipment  to  enhance 
command,  control,  and  communications  systems.  Under  the  con- 
current military  education  and  training  program  of  US$1.7  mil- 
lion for  FY  1990,  174  Egyptian  military  personnel  would  receive 
training. 

The  United  States  stationed  1,200  military  personnel  in  Egypt 
as  of  mid- 1989.  The  presence  of  a  large  number  of  United  States 
advisers  in  Egypt  was  a  source  of  some  political  friction.  The  United 
States  planned  gradually  to  reduce  the  number  in  conjunction  with 
the  long-term  Egyptian  goal  of  self-sufficiency. 

Starting  in  1981 ,  the  United  States  and  Egypt  had  held  joint  mili- 
tary exercises  every  other  year  under  the  name  of  Operation  Bright 
Star.  The  two  countries  conducted  the  largest  of  these  maneuvers 
near  the  Suez  Canal  in  1987  with  9,000  ground,  air,  and  sea  per- 
sonnel from  each  country.  In  alternate  years,  the  two  countries  also 
held  combined  air  and  sea  exercises. 

In  1981  Egypt  agreed  to  allow  the  United  States  Rapid  Deploy- 
ment Force  (currently  called  the  United  States  Central  Command) 
to  use  Egypt's  base  at  Ras  Banas  on  the  Red  Sea  in  the  event  that 
a  friendly  Arab  nation  needed  help  in  repelling  an  armed  attack. 
Preparations  were  made  to  upgrade  the  base  by  installing  fuel- 
storage  tanks,  lengthening  runways,  and  building  barracks  and 
docks.  In  1984,  however,  the  project  was  shelved  because  of  dis- 
agreements over  who  would  manage  construction  and  because  the 
United  States  Congress  insisted  that  Egypt  provide  a  formal  guaran- 
tee of  access  to  the  base.  Mounting  distrust  among  the  Egyptian 
public  over  close  strategic  ties  with  the  United  States  was  an  under- 
lying factor  in  abandoning  the  project.  Egypt  nonetheless  indicat- 
ed that  the  United  States  would  still  have  access  to  the  base  if  help 
were  needed  by  a  friendly  Arab  government. 

Egypt  was  indebted  to  the  United  States  for  about  US$4.5  bil- 
lion, incurred  at  high  interest  rates  in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s, 
for  the  purchase  of  military  equipment.  Beginning  in  1984,  the 
United  States  provided  all  of  its  military  assistance  in  grant  form. 
The  interest  payments  on  the  earlier  debt  amounted  to  as  much 
as  US$600  million  in  a  single  year.  Saudi  Arabia  and  Kuwait  helped 
Egypt  maintain  its  initial  payments,  and  in  1989  Egypt  was  negotiat- 
ing a  rescheduling  of  the  debt  at  lower  rates  with  the  help  of  pri- 
vate banks  (see  Debt  and  Restructuring,  ch.  3). 

Although  as  of  early  1990  the  United  States  continued  to  be 
Egypt's  main  supplier  of  military  equipment,  Egypt's  policy  of 
diversifying  its  sources  of  weaponry  led  it  to  enter  into  cooperative 


332 


United  States  Army  M-2  Bradley  Infantry  Fighting  Vehicles  maneuver 
in  the  Egyptian  desert  during  Exercise  Bright  Star,  1987. 

Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

military  relations  with  a  number  of  other  countries.  Egypt  acquired 
much  of  its  modern  aircraft  from  France,  in  some  cases  assembling 
them  in  Egypt.  Egypt  was  engaged  in  a  number  of  coproduction 
projects  with  Britain  as  well  and  assembled  the  Tucano  primary 
trainer  in  cooperation  with  Brazil.  Egypt  acquired  Chinese  ver- 
sions of  Soviet-designed  aircraft  and  submarines.  Although  an  in- 
sufficient supply  of  replacement  parts  of  the  large  arsenal  of  outdated 
Soviet  equipment  continued  to  present  a  problem,  Egypt  entered 
into  a  new  understanding  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1986  to  permit 
resumption  of  a  modest  flow  of  parts.  Moscow  also  agreed  to  relax 
the  terms  of  repayment  of  Cairo's  military  debt  to  the  Soviet 
Union — estimated  to  be  between  US$5  billion  to  US$7  billion — 
over  twenty-five  years  without  interest.  According  to  ACDA,  the 
value  of  arms  transfers  to  Egypt  between  1983  and  1987  amount- 
ed to  about  US$7.8  billion,  of  which  US$3.4  billion  came  from 
the  United  States,  US$1.6  billion  from  France,  US$550  million 
from  China,  US$340  million  from  the  Soviet  Union,  US$270  mil- 
lion from  Italy,  US$200  million  from  Britain,  US$60  million  from 
West  Germany,  and  the  remaining  US$1 .4  billion  from  unidenti- 
fied sources. 


333 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Internal  Security 

The  level  of  violence  in  Egypt  as  a  result  of  political  or  criminal 
activity  has  been  below  that  of  many  countries  of  the  Middle  East. 
Periodic  outbreaks  of  unrest  have  occurred  as  manifestations  of 
popular  discontent  with  economic  conditions.  These  protests  have 
mainly  been  localized  or  regional  in  scope  and  have  been  brought 
under  control  by  the  military  when  the  forces  of  public  order  proved 
unable  to  deal  with  them.  Rarely  have  political  disturbances  oc- 
curred on  a  national  scale  sufficient  to  threaten  the  existing  politi- 
cal structure. 

Although  opposition  to  Nasser  and  Sadat  was  often  widespread, 
security  forces  usually  managed  to  contain  the  discontent.  Riots 
and  mass  demonstrations  plagued  the  Sadat  administration.  Stu- 
dents and  intellectuals  demonstrated  against  the  protracted  negoti- 
ations over  the  return  of  Sinai,  Egypt's  cooperation  with  the  United 
States,  and  what  they  regarded  as  an  unduly  moderate  stance  re- 
garding Arab-Israeli  issues.  Economic  discontent  led  to  violence 
on  several  occasions.  For  example,  the  1977  food  riots  broke  out 
when  the  government  proposed  to  eliminate  subsidies,  thus  raising 
the  price  of  many  common  food  items.  The  violence  posed  a  seri- 
ous challenge  to  the  regime,  forcing  Sadat  to  restore  the  subsidies. 
Mubarak  attempted  to  relieve  some  of  the  tension  that  had  been 
building  up  in  Egypt  by  permitting  increased  political  expression, 
at  least  through  officially  sanctioned  channels.  He  also  sought  to  re- 
lieve social  unrest  through  the  retention  of  food  subsidies.  In  1986, 
however,  riots  by  the  Central  Security  Forces  threatened  to  break 
down  public  order.  Loyal  units  of  the  armed  forces  successfully 
contained  the  unrest  (see  Police,  this  ch.). 

Religiously  inspired  activism  was  the  source  of  much  of  the  in- 
ternal violence  that  occurred  during  the  1980s.  Muslim  extremists 
had  a  wide  following,  but  only  a  few  of  them  were  actually  involved 
in  assaults  against  governmental  institutions.  In  general,  Egypt's 
security  forces  demonstrated  a  capacity  to  suppress  widespread  vio- 
lence among  Muslim  extremists.  As  of  early  1990,  most  observers 
believed  that  the  majority  of  the  population  had  rejected  these  rad- 
ical but  factionalized  fringe  groups  and  that  these  groups  present- 
ed no  immediate  threat  to  the  political  system. 

Muslim  Extremism 

The  main  organization  advocating  the  establishment  of  an  Islamic 
government  in  Egypt  was  the  Muslim  Brotherhood  (Al  Ikhwan 
al  Muslimun;  also  known  as  the  Brotherhood).  The  Brotherhood, 
founded  in  1928,  was  closely  linked  to  groups  that  opposed  the 


334 


National  Security 


British  and  the  monarchy  in  the  1940s.  It  also  provided  some  of 
the  ideas  that  inspired  the  Free  Officers'  coup  in  1952.  The  govern- 
ment suppressed  the  Brotherhood  after  some  of  the  organization's 
members  were  suspected  of  involvement  in  an  assassination  attempt 
against  Nasser  in  1954.  In  an  attempt  to  offset  the  strength  of  Egypt's 
political  left,  Sadat  permitted  the  reemergence  of  the  Brotherhood. 
He  freed  hundreds  of  Brotherhood  members  who  had  been  jailed 
for  political  reasons.  Shifting  to  nonviolent  tactics,  the  dominant  ele- 
ments of  the  Brotherhood  sought  respect  and  attempted  to  perme- 
ate the  government  and  its  institutions  with  Brotherhood  adherents. 
Because  it  was  a  religious  party,  it  could  not  participate  directly  in 
elections.  Still,  it  ran  a  number  of  candidates  in  the  1984  and  1987 
elections  in  alliances  with  other  opposition  parties.  The  Brotherhood's 
successful  campaign  in  1987,  in  which  it  captured  thirty-eight  seats 
in  the  People's  Assembly,  indicated  an  intensifying  pro-Islamist  sen- 
timent in  Egypt  (see  Islam,  ch.  2;  The  Limits  of  Incorporation:  The 
Rise  of  Political  Islam  and  the  Continuing  Role  of  Repression,  ch.  4). 

The  Brotherhood  represented  the  mainstream  of  the  Islamic  move- 
ment, in  comparison  with  the  estimated  fifty  more  radical  Islamic 
groups,  collectively  known  as  the  Jamaat  al  Islamiyah  (Islamic  As- 
sociations), that  operated  clandestinely.  Most  of  these  other  groups 
sought  to  overthrow  the  state  and  to  reorder  society  in  accordance 
with  the  sharia  (Islamic  law — see  The  Judicial  System,  this  ch.). 
They  also  sought  to  reject  Western  political  and  social  influence  and 
to  promote  Arab  militancy  against  Israel.  In  1981  the  followers  of 
Al  Jihad  (Holy  War)  in  the  armed  forces  were  responsible  for  the 
assassination  of  Sadat  during  a  military  parade.  As  a  result  of  the 
assassination,  the  military  dismissed  30  officers  and  100  enlisted  men 
because  of  their  extreme  religious  views.  An  offshoot  of  Al  Jihad, 
Baqaya  Jihannam  (Survivors  of  Hell),  attempted  in  1987  to  assas- 
sinate the  former  minister  of  interior  and  a  prominent  editor.  Reli- 
gious extremists,  some  of  whom  were  military  officers,  also  set  fire 
to  video  rental  shops,  movie  theaters,  pharmacies,  shops  selling  al- 
cohol, automobiles,  and  Coptic  churches  (see  Coptic  Church,  ch. 
2).  Some  soldiers  had  stolen  arms  and  ammunition  from  military 
stocks.  Nonetheless,  the  government  insisted  on  the  ability  of  the 
intelligence  services  to  keep  radical  groups  from  infiltrating  the 
military. 

Radical  Islam  drew  adherents  from  various  social  classes  and  par- 
ticularly among  university  students.  By  the  1980s,  Muslim  student 
organizations  started  to  dominate  campus  life  and  have  a  strong  influ- 
ence over  faculties  and  university  administrations.  The  total  number 
of  activists  was  believed  to  be  several  hundred  thousand  but  the 
membership  in  clandestine  organizations  was  small,  with  estimates 


335 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


ranging  from  3,000  to  20,000.  Activists  involved  in  violence  were 
thought  to  number  as  few  as  1,000. 

The  government  was  fairly  successful  in  controlling  underground 
movements  in  a  series  of  crackdowns  during  each  of  which  authori- 
ties arrested  as  many  as  1,500  activists.  Most  of  these  activists  were 
released  after  interrogation.  The  government  did,  however,  prose- 
cute some  of  these  activists  on  charges  ranging  from  undermining 
the  security  of  the  state  to  terrorism.  Police  carried  out  an  effec- 
tive surveillance  program  that  included  infiltration  of  campus  groups 
and  monitoring  the  activities  of  extremist  leaders  in  Egypt  and 
abroad.  The  police  also  closely  watched  twenty-five  mosques  that 
were  suspected  of  being  the  headquarters  of  outlawed  political 
groups  and  storage  places  for  arms. 

Leftist  Organizations 

Since  the  early  1950s,  Egypt  has  banned  the  Communist  Party 
of  Egypt  (CPE),  which  was  formed  in  1921.  The  National  Progres- 
sive Unionist  Organization  (a  bloc  of  leftist  factions  including  some 
Marxists),  however,  was  legal.  Egyptian  communism  has  tradi- 
tionally been  a  general  movement  of  leftist  factions  rather  than  the 
platform  of  a  cohesive  single  party.  Before  the  1952  Revolution, 
the  movement  was  represented  by  the  CPE  as  well  as  smaller  groups 
with  names  such  as  the  Egyptian  Movement  for  National  Libera- 
tion, the  Spark,  the  Vanguard,  the  Marxist  League,  and  the  New 
Dawn. 

After  the  overthrow  of  the  monarchy,  Marxist  groups  endorsed 
the  new  regime  but  withdrew  their  support  when  the  Revolution- 
ary Command  Council  declared  that  Marxism  was  dangerous  to 
state  security  and  imprisoned  many  leftists.  When  Soviet  Premier 
Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  visited  Cairo  in  1964,  Nasser  released  all 
imprisoned  leftists.  During  the  remainder  of  the  1960s,  most  leftists 
abandoned  their  illegal  groups  and  joined  the  government  party, 
the  Arab  Socialist  Union  (ASU).  Many  occupied  important  posi- 
tions, but  their  views  and  activities  could  not  exceed  the  bounds 
of  government  tolerance.  In  1971  Sadat  dismissed  a  number  of 
Marxists  and  known  Soviet  sympathizers  from  the  ASU.  Sadat 
again  purged  leftists  from  the  ASU  after  he  expelled  Soviet  advisers 
from  Egypt  in  1972  and  after  riots  later  that  year  and  in  early  1973. 
Sadat  blamed  them  for  inciting  unrest.  After  the  1977  food  riots 
and  the  1986  police  conscripts'  riots,  some  observers  blamed  com- 
munist involvement,  but  most  observers  believed  the  riots  were 
almost  entirely  spontaneous.  An  underground  group,  Thawrat  Misr 
(Egypt's  Revolution,  also  known  as  Thawrat  Misr  an  Nassiriyah 
or  Egypt's  Nasserist  Revolution),  took  credit  for  the  murder  of  two 


336 


National  Security 


Israeli  diplomats  and  the  attempted  murders  of  several  Israeli  and 
United  States  embassy  personnel  between  1984  and  1987.  In  1986 
a  number  of  members  of  the  CPE  were  sentenced  to  prison  for 
one  to  three  years  for  producing  and  possessing  subversive  publi- 
cations. Later  that  year,  forty-four  members  of  a  secret  leftist  group, 
Al  Ittijah  ath  Thawri  (Revolutionary  Tendency),  were  arrested  on 
charges  of  planning  to  overthrow  the  regime  and  replace  it  with 
a  Marxist  system. 

As  of  1990,  Egyptian  left-wing  groups  remained  factionalized. 
The  CPE  existed,  but  its  membership  was  believed  to  be  minus- 
cule. Other  organizations,  with  names  such  as  the  Egyptian  Com- 
munist Workers'  Party,  the  Popular  Movement,  the  Revolutionary 
Progressive  Party,  and  the  Armed  Communist  Organization, 
claimed  to  be  part  of  the  leftist  underground.  Foreign  observers 
believed  that  the  potential  threat  of  these  groups  to  the  security 
of  the  state  was  insignificant  in  comparison  to  the  potential  threat 
of  Islamic  extremists. 

Police 

The  Nasser  and  Sadat  administrations  initiated  a  number  of 
police  and  law-enforcement  reforms.  They  strengthened  police  or- 
ganization and  improved  public  security.  According  to  official  state- 
ments, the  incidence  of  serious  crimes  decreased  because  of  these 
changes.  Nevertheless,  the  tight  political  security  enforced  under 
Nasser  created  a  police  state.  Although  controls  were  greatly  eased 
by  Sadat,  widespread  dislike  of  the  police  persisted. 

Egypt's  national  police  had  a  wide  variety  of  functions  and 
responsibilities.  The  national  police  was  responsible  for  maintain- 
ing law  and  order,  preventing  and  detecting  crime,  supporting  the 
court  system  through  the  collection  of  evidence,  and  other  police 
duties,  including  processing  passports,  screening  immigrants,  oper- 
ating prisons,  controlling  traffic,  guarding  special  events  and  celebri- 
ties, suppressing  smuggling  and  narcotics  trafficking,  preventing 
political  subversion  and  sabotage,  guarding  transport  and  utility 
installations,  preventing  black  marketing,  and  participating  in  civil 
defense. 

Turkish  and  French  systems  influenced  the  organization  of 
Egypt's  police  force  until  the  late  nineteenth  century,  when  the  Brit- 
ish modified  the  system.  The  national-level  police  force,  set  up  in 
1883,  was  trained  and  staffed  by  British  officials  and  became  the 
basis  for  the  system  that  was  still  used  in  1990.  In  1922,  when  the 
British,  with  reservations,  relinquished  sovereignty  to  the  Egyp- 
tians, the  police  became  a  virtual  private  agency  of  the  monarch, 
and  police  administration  became  even  more  highly  centralized. 


337 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


After  the  1952  Revolution  (which  was  supported  by  the  police), 
all  police  functions  were  placed  under  the  direction  of  the  Minis- 
try of  Interior. 

As  of  early  1987,  the  size  of  the  regular  police  force  was  report- 
ed to  be  about  122,000;  an  estimated  40,000  positions  were  un- 
filled because  police  jobs  paid  poorly  and  offered  few  benefits.  A 
typical  policeman  in  1986  earned  between  £E60  and  £E70  (US$30 
to  US$35)  a  month.  Salaries  in  real  terms  were  lower  in  1986  than 
in  1976.  According  to  one  Egyptian  analysis,  police  salaries  were 
low  in  part  as  a  result  of  excessive  allocations  of  funds  for  other 
purposes.  The  Ministry  of  Interior's  budget  had  increased  400  per- 
cent over  an  eight-year  period,  but  much  of  this  money  was  spent 
on  equipment  used  primarily  for  controlling  riots. 

The  low  salaries  encouraged  many  police  officers  to  accept  small 
bribes  (in  exchange  for  overlooking  traffic  citations,  for  example) 
to  compensate  for  their  unrealistically  low  wages.  At  a  higher  level, 
police  corruption  took  the  form  of  complicity  in  drug  smuggling. 
The  creation  of  law-enforcement  bodies  within  the  ministries  of 
supply,  transportation,  and  finance,  and  within  the  customs  ser- 
vice diminished  the  authority  of  the  police.  According  to  one  source, 
Egypt  had  thirty-four  separate  police  forces  as  of  1986. 

Organization 

Sadat's  administration  divided  the  functions  of  the  police  and 
public  security  among  four  deputy  ministers  of  interior.  The 
minister  himself  retained  responsibility  for  state  security  investi- 
gations and  overall  organization.  The  deputy  minister  for  public 
security  oversaw  sections  responsible  for  public  safety,  travel, 
emigration,  passports,  port  security,  and  criminal  investigation. 
Responsibilities  assigned  to  the  deputy  minister  for  special  police 
included  prison  administration,  the  Central  Security  Forces,  civil 
defense,  police  transport,  communications,  traffic,  and  tourism. 
The  deputy  minister  for  personnel  affairs  was  responsible  for  police- 
training  institutions,  personnel  matters  for  police  and  civilian  em- 
ployees, and  the  Policemen's  Sports  Association.  The  deputy 
minister  for  administrative  and  financial  affairs  had  charge  of  gener- 
al administration,  budgets,  supplies,  and  legal  matters. 

Commissioned  police  ranks  resembled  ranks  in  the  army.  The 
highest-ranking  police  officer  was  a  major  general  and  ranks 
descended  only  to  first  lieutenant.  Below  first  lieutenant,  however, 
was  the  grade  known  as  lieutenant-chief  warrant  officer,  followed 
by  three  descending  grades  of  warrant  officers.  Enlisted  police  held 
the  grades  of  master  sergeant,  sergeant,  corporal,  and  private.  Police 


338 


Cairo  street  scene  with  traffic  police  officer 
Courtesy  Susan  Becker 

rank  insignia  were  the  same  as  those  used  by  the  army,  and  uni- 
forms were  also  similar. 

In  each  governorate  (sing.,  muhafazah;  pi.,  muhafazat),  a  direc- 
tor of  police  commanded  all  police  in  the  jurisdiction  and,  with 
the  governor,  was  responsible  for  maintaining  public  order.  Both 
the  governor  (a  presidentially  appointed  figure)  and  the  director 
of  police  reported  to  the  Ministry  of  Interior  on  all  security  mat- 
ters; the  governor  reported  directly  to  the  minister  or  to  a  deputy, 
and  the  director  of  police  reported  to  the  ministry  through  regular 
police  channels.  In  the  subdivisions  of  the  governorate,  district  police 
commandants  had  authority  and  functions  that  were  similar  to  the 
director  at  the  governorate  level.  In  urban  areas,  police  had  modern 
facilities  and  equipment,  such  as  computers  and  communications 
equipment.  In  smaller,  more  remote  villages,  police  had  less  sophisti- 
cated facilities  and  equipment. 

Training 

Almost  all  commissioned  officers  were  graduates  of  the  Police 
College  at  Cairo.  All  police  had  to  complete  a  three-month  course 
at  the  college.  The  Police  College  was  established  in  1896  under 
British  influence.  It  had  developed  into  a  modern  institution 
equipped  with  laboratory  and  physical- training  facilities.  The  police 


339 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


force  also  sent  some  officers  abroad  for  schooling.  From  the 
mid-1950s  to  the  mid-1970s,  the  force  sent  most  of  its  overseas  stu- 
dents to  training  institutions  in  the  Soviet  Union.  By  the  early  1980s, 
the  force  starting  sending  student  officers  for  training  in  Western 
countries. 

The  curriculum  of  the  Police  College  included  security  adminis- 
tration, criminal  investigation,  military  drills,  civil  defense,  fire 
fighting,  forensic  medicine,  communications,  cryptology,  first  aid, 
sociology,  anatomy,  and  the  French  and  English  languages.  Political 
orientation,  public  relations,  and  military  subjects  (such  as  infantry 
and  cavalry  training),  marksmanship,  leadership,  and  field  exer- 
cises were  also  included.  Graduates  of  the  two-year  program 
received  a  bachelor  of  police  studies  degree  and  were  commissioned 
first  lieutenants.  Advanced  officer  training  was  given  at  the  college's 
Institute  for  Advanced  Police  Studies,  completion  of  which  was  re- 
quired for  advancement  beyond  the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel. 
The  college  conducted  its  three-month  course  for  enlisted  ranks  in  a 
military  atmosphere  but  emphasized  police  methods  and  techniques. 

Central  Security  Forces 

About  300,000  members  of  the  paramilitary  Central  Security 
Forces  (CSF)  augmented  the  police  force.  The  CSF  was  responsi- 
ble for  guarding  public  buildings,  hotels,  strategic  sites  (such  as 
water  and  power  installations),  and  foreign  embassies.  They  also 
helped  direct  traffic  and  control  crowds.  Formed  in  1977  to  obvi- 
ate the  need  to  call  upon  the  armed  forces  to  deal  with  domestic 
disturbances,  the  CSF  grew  rapidly  to  100,000  members  when 
Mubarak  took  office.  The  government  had  hoped  that  the  CSF 
would  counterbalance  the  military's  power,  but  the  force  never 
served  this  function.  Poorly  educated  conscripts  from  rural  areas 
who  failed  to  meet  the  standards  for  army  service  filled  the  ranks 
of  the  CSF.  Officers  often  treated  the  conscripts  harshly  and  fre- 
quently humiliated  them.  Conscripts  commonly  lived  in  tents  and 
sometimes  lacked  beds,  adequate  plumbing,  and  electricity. 

The  Central  Security  Forces  rioted  in  1986  when  a  rumor  spread 
that  their  term  of  service  would  be  extended  from  three  years  to 
four  years.  They  set  hotels  and  nightclubs  on  fire  in  the  tourist  areas 
of  Cairo  and  near  the  pyramids  at  Giza  (Al  Jizah)  and  destroyed 
automobiles.  Army  units  restored  order  after  the  rioting  had  gone 
on  for  four  days  and  had  spread  to  other  cities.  When  the  uprising 
ended,  hundreds  of  people  were  dead  or  wounded,  and  about  8,000 
CSF  conscripts  were  missing.  The  CSF  as  a  result  dismissed  more 
than  20,000  conscripts. 


340 


National  Security 


The  minister  of  interior  subsequently  promised  a  series  of  re- 
forms in  the  CSF,  including  a  reduction  in  the  number  of  people 
to  be  drafted  into  the  force.  He  also  promised  to  raise  training  stan- 
dards, improve  health  care,  and  eliminate  illiteracy.  He  doubled 
conscripts'  wages  (which  had  been  lower  than  the  wages  of  army 
conscripts)  to  £E12  a  month.  Nevertheless,  as  of  1987,  living  con- 
ditions appeared  to  have  improved  only  marginally  and  the  size 
of  the  force  decreased  by  only  10  percent.  The  government  con- 
tinued to  use  the  CSF  as  the  main  force  for  dealing  with  student 
disturbances,  intimidating  industrial  strikers  and  peasant  demon- 
strators, and  curbing  gatherings  of  Islamic  activists. 

Intelligence  Services 

Internal  security  was  the  responsibility  of  three  intelligence  or- 
ganizations: General  Intelligence,  attached  to  the  presidency;  Mili- 
tary Intelligence,  attached  to  the  Ministry  of  Defense;  and  the 
General  Directorate  for  State  Security  Investigations  (GDSSI),  un- 
der direct  control  of  the  minister  of  interior.  Any  of  these  agencies 
could  undertake  investigations  of  matters  pertaining  to  national 
security,  but  the  GDSSI  was  the  main  organization  for  domestic 
security  matters.  After  the  Sadat  era,  the  tendency  of  military  in- 
telligence to  encroach  on  civilian  security  functions  had  been  curbed. 

Nasser  established  a  pervasive  and  oppressive  internal  security 
apparatus.  The  security  police  detained  as  many  as  20,000  politi- 
cal prisoners  at  a  time  and  discouraged  public  discussions  or  meet- 
ings that  could  be  construed  as  unfriendly  to  the  government.  The 
security  police  recruited  local  informants  to  report  on  the  activi- 
ties and  political  views  of  their  neighbors.  Under  Sadat  intelligence 
forces  were  less  obtrusive  but  still  managed  to  be  well  informed 
and  effective  in  monitoring  subversives,  opposition  politicians,  and 
foreigners.  The  security  police's  failure  to  uncover  the  plot  lead- 
ing to  Sadat's  assassination  tarnished  the  reputation  of  the  force. 
The  security  police  also  seemed  to  be  taken  by  surprise  by  the  CSF 
riots  and  failed  to  prevent  other  disorders  such  as  a  series  of  assas- 
sination attempts  by  radical  Islamists  in  the  late  1980s. 

The  authorities  have  never  revealed  the  personnel  strength  of 
the  GDSSI,  which  played  an  important  role  in  government  by  in- 
fluencing policy  decisions  and  personnel  matters.  The  GDSSI  en- 
gaged routinely  in  surveillance  of  opposition  politicians,  journalists, 
political  activists,  foreign  diplomats,  and  suspected  subversives.  The 
GDSSI  focused  on  monitoring  underground  networks  of  radical 
Islamists  and  probably  planted  agents  in  those  organizations.  Ac- 
cording to  some  sources,  the  GDSSI  had  informants  in  all  govern- 
ment departments  and  public-sector  companies,  labor  unions, 


341 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

political  parties,  and  the  news  media.  The  organization  was  also 
believed  to  monitor  telephone  calls  and  correspondence  by  the  po- 
litical opposition  and  by  suspected  subversives. 

In  the  past,  the  regime  had  given  the  GDSSI  considerable  lee- 
way in  maintaining  political  control  and  using  emergency  laws  to 
intimidate  people  suspected  of  subversion  (see  The  Judicial  Sys- 
tem, this  ch.).  The  GDSSI  remained  in  1990  the  primary  organ 
for  combatting  political  subversion  even  after  Mubarak  and  the 
judiciary  took  several  steps  to  limit  the  organization's  power. 

The  GDSSI  was  accused  of  torturing  Islamic  extremists  to  ex- 
tract confessions.  In  1986  forty  GDSSI  officers  went  on  trial  for 
422  charges  of  torture  that  were  brought  by  Al  Jihad  defendants. 
After  lengthy  legal  wrangling,  the  court  absolved  all  the  GDSSI 
officers  in  mid- 1988.  The  judgment  concluded  that  the  GDSSI  had 
indeed  tortured  Al  Jihad  members  but  said  there  was  insufficient 
evidence  to  link  the  particular  GDSSI  officers  on  trial  with  the 
torture. 

Crime  and  Punishment 
The  Judicial  System 

Egypt  based  its  criminal  codes  and  court  operations  primarily 
on  British,  Italian,  and  Napoleonic  models.  Criminal  court  proce- 
dures had  been  substantially  modified  by  the  heritage  of  Islamic 
legal  and  social  patterns  and  the  legacy  of  numerous  kinds  of  courts 
that  formerly  existed.  The  divergent  sources  and  philosophical  ori- 
gins of  these  laws  and  the  inapplicability  of  many  borrowed  Western 
legal  concepts  occasioned  difficulties  in  administering  Egyptian  law. 
The  Criminal  Procedure  Code  of  1950  prescribed  the  jurisdiction 
of  various  courts  and  provided  basic  guidance  for  the  conduct  of  in- 
vestigations and  trial  procedures. 

The  Muslim  Brotherhood  and  other  Islamist  groups  brought  de- 
mands on  the  government  to  adopt  Islamic  sharia.  Government 
officials  argued  that  adopting  Islamic  sharia  was  not  necessary  be- 
cause 95  percent  of  Egypt's  laws  were  already  consistent  with  or 
derived  from  Islamic  law.  In  1985  the  People's  Assembly  rejected 
demands  for  the  immediate  adoption  of  the  sharia  but  supported 
a  recommendation  to  review  all  statutes  and  change  the  ones  that 
conflicted  with  Islamic  law.  This  process,  which  was  expected  to 
continue  for  years,  necessitated  the  review  of  approximately  6,000 
laws  and  10,000  peripheral  legal  acts. 

The  criminal  code  listed  three  main  categories  of  crime:  con- 
traventions (minor  offenses),  misdemeanors  (offenses  punishable 
by  imprisonment  or  fines),  and  felonies  (offenses  punishable  by 


342 


National  Security 


penal  servitude  or  death).  Lower  courts  handled  the  majority  of 
the  cases  that  reached  adjudication  and  levied  fines  in  about  nine 
out  of  ten  cases.  At  their  discretion,  courts  could  suspend  fines  or 
imprisonment  (when  a  sentence  did  not  exceed  one  year).  At  the 
village  level,  a  village  headman,  an  umdah  (pi.,  umada),  represent- 
ing the  central  authority  was  responsible  for  maintaining  order. 
The  umdah  could  also  adjudicate  some  minor  offenses  and  impose 
short  prison  sentences. 

Capital  crimes  that  carried  a  possible  death  sentence  included 
murder,  manslaughter  occurring  in  the  commission  of  a  felony, 
arson  or  the  use  of  explosives  that  caused  death,  rape,  treason,  and 
endangerment  of  state  security.  Few  convictions  for  capital  crimes, 
however,  resulted  in  execution.  The  supreme  court,  the  mufti  (see 
Glossary)  of  Egypt,  and  the  president  reviewed  each  death  sen- 
tence. In  1987  Egypt  executed  six  individuals  for  murder  and  two 
others  for  abduction  and  rape. 

The  investigation  of  a  crime  was  a  sort  of  preliminary  trial,  and 
the  results  of  the  investigation  determined  the  disposition  of  the 
case.  The  Office  of  the  Public  Prosecutor,  an  institution  under  the 
Ministry  of  Justice,  conducted  investigations.  After  an  investiga- 
tion with  the  help  of  police  officials  from  the  district  involved,  the 
public  prosecutor  could  decide  to  drop  a  case  if  the  charges  were 
not  serious  enough  to  warrant  a  trial. 

Egypt's  laws  required  that  a  detained  person  be  brought  before 
a  magistrate  and  formally  charged  within  forty-eight  hours  or 
released.  The  accused  was  entitled  to  post  bail  and  had  the  right 
to  be  defended  by  legal  counsel.  Searches  could  not  be  conducted 
without  a  warrant.  Trials  were  open  to  the  public,  but  the  court 
could  choose  to  hold  all  or  part  of  the  hearing  in  camera  "in  order 
to  preserve  public  order  or  morals."  According  to  the  United  States 
Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices, 
Egypt's  judiciary  acted  independently  and  carefully  observed  con- 
stitutional and  legal  safeguards  in  arrests  and  pretrial  custody.  The 
Emergency  Law  of  1958  outlined  special  judicial  procedures  for 
some  cases.  The  law  enabled  authorities  to  circumvent  the  increas- 
ingly independent  regular  court  system  in  cases  where  people  were 
charged  with  endangering  state  security.  The  law  applied  primar- 
ily to  Islamic  radicals  but  also  covered  leftists  suspected  of  politi- 
cal violence,  drug  smugglers,  and  illegal  currency  dealers.  It  also 
allowed  detention  of  striking  workers,  pro-Palestinian  student 
demonstrators,  and  relatives  of  fugitives. 

The  Emergency  Law  of  1958  authorized  the  judicial  system  to 
detain  people  without  charging  them  or  guaranteeing  them  due 
process  while  an  investigation  was  under  way.  After  thirty  days, 


343 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


a  detainee  could  petition  the  State  Security  Court  to  review  the 
case.  If  the  court  ordered  the  detainee's  release,  the  minister  of 
interior  had  fifteen  days  to  object.  If  the  minister  overruled  the 
court's  decision,  the  detainee  could  petition  another  State  Securi- 
ty Court  for  release  after  thirty  more  days.  If  the  second  court  sup- 
ported the  detainee's  petition,  it  released  the  detainee.  The  minister 
of  interior  could,  however,  simply  rearrest  the  detainee.  The  govern- 
ment commonly  engaged  in  this  practice  in  cases  involving  Islam- 
ic extremists. 

The  State  Security  Courts  preserved  most  procedural  safeguards. 
They  barred  secret  testimony,  upheld  defendants'  rights  to  be 
represented  by  an  attorney,  and  gave  attorneys  access  to  the  prose- 
cution's investigations.  Trials  were  usually  in  public,  except  in  some 
cases  involving  political  violence.  Convicted  persons  could  appeal 
to  the  Court  of  Cassation  (see  The  Judiciary,  Civil  Rights,  and 
the  Rule  of  Law,  ch.  4).  The  State  Security  Courts  drew  their  judges 
from  the  ranks  of  the  senior  judiciary. 

In  most  cases,  detainees  were  released  after  a  period  of  interro- 
gation and  were  never  brought  to  trial.  In  mid- 1989  the  minister 
of  interior  stated  that  a  total  of  12,000  individuals  had  been  de- 
tained under  the  Emergency  Law  of  1958  during  the  preceding 
three  years.  As  of  early  1990  the  government  acknowledged  that 
it  was  detaining  2,411  individuals,  813  of  whom  were  being  held 
on  political  charges. 

In  certain  instances,  civilian  suspects  could  be  turned  over  to  mili- 
tary courts  for  trial  on  the  basis  of  a  presidential  order.  This  prac- 
tice was  the  subject  of  a  constitutional  challenge  initiated  in  1989. 

In  1980  the  government  created  a  separate  judicial  institution, 
the  Court  of  Ethics,  together  with  its  investigating  arm,  the  Office 
of  the  Socialist  Prosecutor,  to  investigate  complaints  of  widespread 
corruption  in  government.  The  court  was  charged  with  trying 
offenses  against  "socialist  values,"  which  included  corruption  and 
illegal  business  practices.  The  Office  of  the  Socialist  Prosecutor 
served  as  watchdog  against  abuses  by  government  officials;  ap- 
proved the  credentials  of  candidates  for  office  in  the  trade  union 
movement,  professional  syndicates,  and  local  government  coun- 
cils; and  performed  security  checks  on  senior  government  ap- 
pointees. 

Incidence  of  Crime 

Ordinary  crime,  that  is,  crime  unconnected  to  political  dissent 
or  sectarian  strife,  was  perceived  to  be  a  major  problem  during 
the  1980s,  although  it  was  difficult  to  demonstrate  a  strong  upsurge 
in  criminal  activity  on  the  basis  of  the  limited  data  available.  Minor 


344 


Immigration  officer  checking 
passport  of  one  of  about 
2  million  tourists 
who  visit  annually 
Courtesy  Embassy 
of  Egypt,  Washington 


0\ 


crimes,  such  as  petty  theft,  pickpocketing,  and  purse  snatching, 
were  widespread  in  the  streets  of  metropolitan  Cairo,  but  violence 
in  the  commission  of  these  crimes  was  uncommon.  In  rural  areas, 
crime  victims  generally  sought  retribution  without  going  to  the 
authorities,  especially  in  cases  where  the  honor  of  an  individual 
or  a  family  was  tarnished.  An  informal  analysis  found  that  more 
than  half  the  murder  cases  in  rural  areas  occurred  within  the  fam- 
ily and  commonly  involved  issues  of  passion,  honor,  or  vengeance. 

Reliable  official  statistics  on  crime  were  not  available,  but  an 
Egyptian  report  to  Interpol,  the  international  police  organization, 
in  1988  recorded  784  murders,  364  serious  assaults,  189  morals 
offenses,  and  322  robberies  involving  violence.  Thefts  totaled 
19,964,  including  1,397  auto  thefts  but  only  14  armed  robberies. 
There  were  1,313  cases  of  fraud  and  10,559  drug  offenses.  The 
police  claimed  to  have  solved  more  than  90  percent  of  the  major 
crimes  and  75  percent  of  the  thefts.  The  level  of  criminal  activity 
reported  appeared  to  be  surprisingly  low  and  the  success  rate  in 
solving  crimes  unusually  high,  particularly  in  light  of  the  belief  that 
urban  crime  was  escalating.  The  police  recorded  a  total  of  more 
than  1,500,000  infractions  of  all  kinds;  presumably  this  included 
petty  crimes  and  misdemeanors  and  such  offenses  as  evasion  of  price 
controls. 

In  an  interview  in  late  1989,  the  director  of  security  for  Cairo 
attributed  higher  crime  rates  to  bad  economic  conditions,  high 


345 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


unemployment,  population  growth,  and  changes  in  social  norms. 
In  1988  Cairo  experienced  sharp  increases  in  the  theft  of  cars  and 
other  goods,  offenses  by  women  and  juveniles,  kidnappings,  and 
vice  cases.  Bank  robberies,  gang  activity,  and  other  violence  con- 
tinued to  be  uncommon,  however. 

White-collar  crime,  smuggling,  black  marketing  in  currency,  and 
other  economic  offenses  were  rampant  and  increased  under  the 
Sadat  and  Mubarak  regimes.  Sadat  established  special  commis- 
sions to  investigate  official  corruption.  Soon  after  taking  office, 
Mubarak  condemned  favoritism  and  graft  and  replaced  several  cabi- 
net members  whom  he  thought  were  inadequate  in  their  efforts 
to  detect  and  expose  corruption.  Nevertheless,  economic  crimes 
continued  to  be  widespread.  These  crimes  included  embezzlement, 
tax  and  customs  evasion,  illegal  currency  transactions,  smuggling 
and  trading  contraband,  diversion  of  subsidized  goods,  "leakages" 
from  free  trade  zones,  kickbacks,  and  bribes  to  officials.  In  1986 
Egyptian  officials  arrested  about  102,000  individuals  for  "supply 
violations,"  which  included  petty  infringements  by  shopkeepers 
and  vendors,  such  as  their  failure  to  observe  price  controls.  Some 
of  these  violations,  however,  involved  large  enterprises  engaged 
in  major  infractions,  often  with  the  connivance  of  government 
officials. 

Drug  Trafficking 

The  use  of  narcotics  became  an  increasingly  serious  problem  in 
Egypt  during  the  1980s.  Some  officials  estimated  that  as  many  as 
2  million  Egyptians  were  users  of  illegal  drugs  as  of  1989.  Many 
of  these  users  were  students  and  children  of  wealthy  parents.  Many 
people  used  cocaine  or  heroin,  while  others  used  opium  or  hashish, 
which  Egyptians  have  commonly  smoked  for  centuries.  Accord- 
ing to  one  source,  Egypt  had  about  250,000  heroin  addicts  in  1988. 
Police  claimed  that  drug  use  was  spreading  at  a  frightening  pace 
and  that  the  rising  cost  of  narcotics  was  causing  addicts  to  commit 
crimes  to  obtain  money  for  drugs. 

A  large  amount  of  the  hashish  and  opium  sold  in  Egypt  was 
produced  domestically.  In  1988  and  1989,  however,  Egyptian 
authorities  seized  large  shipments  of  heroin  and  other  drugs  that 
were  probably  produced  in  Lebanon  and  Pakistan.  An  estimated 
300  kilograms  of  heroin  were  sold  in  Egypt  in  1988.  In  1984  (the 
latest  year  for  which  data  were  available)  an  estimated  264,000  kilo- 
grams of  hashish  and  2,000  kilograms  of  opium  were  sold.  The 
value  of  the  illegal  drugs  sold  in  1988  was  estimated  at  US$1  billion. 

Law-enforcement  authorities  were  more  successful  in  arresting 
people  who  sold  drugs  on  the  streets — typically  owners  of  kiosks 


346 


National  Security 


where  cigarettes  were  normally  purchased — than  major  drug  deal- 
ers, who  were  apparently  able  to  buy  immunity  by  bribes  to  high 
officials.  The  government  had  begun  punishing  drug  violations 
more  severely  and  had  proposed  subjecting  some  offenders  to  the 
death  penalty.  Egypt  convicted  about  3,500  people  on  charges  of 
narcotics  trafficking  in  1982.  About  2,500  of  these  individuals 
received  sentences  ranging  from  six  months  to  one  year;  about  1 ,000 
persons  received  sentences  of  five  years  or  less,  and  15  received 
life  sentences  at  hard  labor.  By  1988  Egypt  had  imposed  much  stiffer 
penalties.  A  woman  from  Britain,  for  example,  received  a  twenty- 
five-year  sentence  for  smuggling  a  small  amount  of  heroin  into  the 
country. 

The  Penal  System 

Prison  administration  was  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Minis- 
try of  Interior.  Prison  officials  were  usually  graduates  of  police  or 
military  schools.  The  main  categories  of  penal  institutions  were  peni- 
tentiaries, general  prisons,  district  jails,  and  juvenile  reformatories. 
Criminals  receiving  heavy  sentences  were  sent  to  penitentiaries 
where  they  faced  hard  labor  and  strict  discipline.  Penitentiaries 
could  subject  prisoners  to  solitary  confinement  only  as  a  discipli- 
nary measure  for  bad  behavior.  General  prisons  housed  offenders 
who  were  sentenced  to  more  than  three  months.  District  jails  usually 
housed  prisoners  who  were  sentenced  for  up  to  three  months.  Vil- 
lage police  stations  had  jail  facilities  that  they  used  only  for  tem- 
porary incarceration.  As  of  the  mid-1980s,  Egypt  had  three  major 
penitentiaries  and  twenty- seven  general  prisons. 

After  the  1952  Revolution,  Egypt  implemented  some  reforms 
in  the  quality  of  penal  administration.  The  government  built  hospi- 
tals in  major  prisons  and  provided  separate  facilities  for  women. 
Prisons  adopted  the  concept  of  rehabilitation;  juvenile  prisoners 
received  special  attention;  and,  in  cases  of  need,  provision  was  made 
for  assisting  a  prisoner's  family. 

Egyptian  prisons  were  overcrowded;  facilities  designed  to  hold 
fewer  than  20,000  prisoners  housed  about  30,000.  Most  of  the 
prisons  were  built  in  the  early  twentieth  century  and  needed  com- 
plete renovation  or  replacement.  Six  prisons  were  under  construc- 
tion in  1988  in  nonresidential  areas,  where  space  was  available  for 
farming  and  dairying  by  convict  laborers. 

According  to  the  United  States  Department  of  State's  Country 
Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for  1987,  prison  conditions  and  treat- 
ment varied  considerably.  Some  institutions  lacked  adequate  med- 
ical and  sanitary  facilities.  Tora  Prison  near  Cairo,  where  convicted 
members  of  Al  Jihad  were  incarcerated,  had  a  particularly  bad 


347 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

reputation.  Other  prisons  provided  better  living  conditions  and 
offered  inmates  recreational  programs  and  vocational  training.  In 
its  1987  report,  the  Arab  Human  Rights  Organization  criticized 
what  it  termed  "supervision"  of  the  prison  system  by  officers  of 
the  GDSSI. 

In  an  interview  appearing  in  a  Cairo  newspaper  in  August  1988, 
then  Minister  of  Interior  Zaki  Badr  acknowledged  that  "conditions 
inside  the  prisons  are  terrible  .  .  .  the  prisons  are  a  hotbed  of  drug 
and  monetary  crimes  .  .  .  even  more  so  among  the  guards  them- 
selves." He  said  that  the  penal  system  planned  to  implement 
modern  methods  of  prison  security,  improve  communication  sys- 
tems among  guards,  and  install  electronic  closed-circuit  television 
monitoring  systems  and  special  measures  to  ensure  efficiency  and 
discipline  among  prison  officers  and  guards. 

According  to  the  1988  report  of  the  human  rights  organization 
Amnesty  International,  there  were  many  allegations  of  torture  and 
poor  treatment  of  detainees,  particularly  in  parts  of  the  Tora  Pris- 
on complex.  Torture  was  apparently  inflicted  to  obtain  confessions 
in  1987  after  a  series  of  assassination  attempts  against  high  offi- 
cials. Egypt  has  refused  to  allow  representatives  from  groups  such 
as  the  Arab  Human  Rights  Organization  and  the  International  Red 
Cross  to  inspect  the  country's  prisons  and  meet  with  prisoners. 
Members  of  the  People's  Assembly  who  represented  opposition  par- 
ties were  also  refused  access  to  the  prisons.  A  report  by  the  Egyp- 
tian Organization  for  Human  Rights  in  early  1990  claimed  that 
there  was  a  marked  increase  in  the  use  of  torture  in  1989,  not  only 
against  members  of  subversive  organizations  but  also  against  or- 
dinary citizens  with  no  political  affiliations.  Muhammad  Abd  al 
Halim  Musa  replaced  Badr  as  minister  of  interior  in  January  1990. 
Badr  had  long  been  criticized  for  harsh  repression  of  Islamic  ex- 
tremists and  violations  of  civil  liberties.  Egyptian  human  rights  ac- 
tivists hoped  that  his  successor  would  adopt  more  moderate  policies 
and  improve  the  treatment  of  prisoners. 

*    *  * 

A  number  of  articles  on  the  modern  role,  mission,  and  equip- 
ment of  the  Egyptian  armed  forces  are  included  in  the  December 
1989  issue  of  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  under  the  heading  "Defense 
in  Egypt."  Additional  material,  some  of  it  no  longer  current,  can 
be  found  in  the  article  on  Egypt  by  Gwynne  Dyer  and  John  Kee- 
gan  in  the  compendium  World  Armies.  In  Fighting  Armies,  G.P.  Arm- 
strong summarizes  Egypt's  military  doctrine,  fighting  qualities,  and 
perception  of  national  security.  Trevor  N.  Dupuy's  Elusive  Victory 


348 


National  Security 


evaluates  the  performance  of  the  Egyptian  armed  forces  in  the  suc- 
cessive wars  with  Israel.  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  published 
by  the  International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  in  London,  pro- 
vides the  most  reliable  data  on  current  force  strengths  and  weapons. 

Robert  Springborg's  Mubarak's  Egypt  assesses  the  influence  of 
Abu  Ghazala  on  the  Egyptian  armed  forces  during  the  1980s  and 
the  importance  of  the  new  military-operated  production  enterprises. 
Contrasting  interpretations  of  the  status  of  the  military  under 
Mubarak  are  presented  by  Robert  B.  Satloff  in  Army  and  Politics 
in  Mubarak's  Egypt  and  by  Ahmed  Abdallah  in  an  article,  "The 
Armed  Forces  and  the  Democratic  Process  in  Egypt,"  in  Third 
World  Quarterly.  In  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat,  Raymond  A.  Hin- 
nebusch,  Jr.  provides  an  account  of  the  depoliticization  of  the  mili- 
tary during  the  1970s.  The  criminal  justice  system,  the  application 
of  the  Emergency  Law,  and  prison  conditions  are  appraised  in  the 
United  States  Department  of  State's  annual  Country  Reports  on  Hu- 
man Rights  Practices.  The  significance  of  the  Islamic  activist  move- 
ment as  a  potential  threat  to  internal  security  has  been  analyzed 
in  numerous  studies,  including  Springborg's  book  previously  men- 
tioned, an  article  by  former  United  States  Ambassador  to  Egypt 
Hermann  Frederick  Eilts,  "Egypt  in  1986,"  in  the  Washington  Quar- 
terly, an  article  by  Yahya  Sadowski,  "Egypt's  Islamist  Movement: 
A  New  Political  and  Economic  Force,"  in  Middle  East  Insight,  and 
the  book  by  Thomas  W.  Lippman,  Egypt  after  Nasser.  A  brief  com- 
mentary by  Lillian  Craig  Harris  in  Middle  East  International  is  notable 
for  its  conclusion  that  the  threat  to  the  political  system  by  religious 
zealotry  remains  remote.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


349 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Enrollment  by  Education  Level  and  Sex,  1985-86 

3  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1952-87 

4  Government  Budgets,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 

5  Monetary  Survey,  Selected  Years,  1980-88 

6  Employment  Distribution  by  Sector,  Selected  Years,  1966-86 

7  Cropped  Area,  Selected  Years,  1952-87 

8  Major  Crop  Production,  Selected  Years,  1974-87 

9  Planned  Public  and  Private  Investment,  FY  1987-91  Five- 

Year  Plan 

10  Value  of  Foreign  Trade,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 

11  Summary  of  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 

12  External  Debt,  Selected  Years,  1982-8813  Major  Army  Equip- 

ment, 1989 

13  Major  Army  Equipment,  1989 

14  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1989 

15  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1989 

16  Major  Air  Defense  Force  Equipment,  1989 


351 


Appendix 


Table  1. 

Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

9.  "i 

feet 

miles 

riectares  (1U,UUU  m'j  . 

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

cubic  teet 

  0.26 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Enrollment  by  Education 
Level  and  Sex,  1985-86 


Level  Male  Female  Total 


Primary    3,397,779  2,605,071  6,002,850 

Intermediate   1,274,137  860,870  2,135,007 

Secondary 

General    355,454  213,912  569,366 

Technical    526,283  351,116  877,399 

Total  secondary    881,737  565,028  1,446,765 

Teacher  training    34,113  50,474  84,587 

University    445,963  215,384  661,347 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1989,  London,  1989,  395. 


353 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector, 
Selected  Years,  1952-87 
(in  percentages) 


Sector 

1952 

1968 

1975 

1980 

1983 

1985 

1987 

  33  1 

29  1 

27 

18 

16 

15 

15 

  13  1 

23  1 

30 

37 

34 

35 

34 

 .  .     53  1 

50  1 

43 

45 

50 

50 

51 

TOTAL  2   

  100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

100 

Value  3   

  983  1 

1,813  1 

9,508 

15,740 

19,629 

22,253 

23,424 

1  At  1959-60  current  market  prices;  all  other  years  are  1980  prices  at  factor  cost. 

2  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 

3  In  millions  of  Egyptian  pounds  (for  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see  Glossary). 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Bent  Hansen  and  Karim  Nashashibi,  Foreign  Trade 
Regimes  and  Economic  Development,  New  York,  1975,  12-13;  and  World  Bank,  World 
Debt  Tables,  1988-89,  Baltimore,  1989,  236-39. 


354 


Appendix 


Table  4.  Government  Budgets,  Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  millions  of  Egyptian  pounds)  1 


1979 

1983 

1985 

1988 

Revenues 

Central  government 

Taxes 

904 

1,920 

1,700 

3,200 

568 

1,302 

1,600 

3,174 

,  .  ,  ,  659 

1,506 

2,300s 

Personal  income  

55 

129 

150  \ 

5,972  2 

Property  

29 

14 

12( 

Other  

492 

750> 

2,428 

5,363 

6,512 

12,346 

Profits 

Petroleum  company  

631 

1,066 

950 

781 

i  && 

Z.oD 

Zou 

Other  

. . .  .  Ill 

n.a. 

n.a. 

o  coo 
Z,ooo 

1,001 

n.a. 

n.a. 

3,775 

Local  government  and  other 

,  ,  ,  ,  386 

550 

703 

1,150 

Self-financing  investments  

  350 

1,628 

1,731 

4,243 

4,165 

10,371 

11,992 

1,514 

Expenditures 

2  375 

2,620 

3,440 

5,515 

Subsidies  

1,370 

2^875 

2, '766 

1^813 

Deficit  of  public  enterprises   

229 

193 

300 

n.a. 

1,111 

1,700 

2,366 

  642 

1,982 

1,769 

2,469 

Other   

2,504 

3,485 

n.a. 

Gross  public  investment   

  2,587 

5,518 

6,358 

7,780 

Total  expenditures   

.  .  .  .  n.a. 

16,803 

19,818 

28,733 

Gross  deficit  (-)   

2,168 

6,432 

7,826 

7,219 

Expenditures  as  percentage 

of  GDP  3  

50 

70 

60 

49 

Revenues  as  percentage 

of  GDP   

33 

33 

36 

37 

Gross  deficit  as  percentage 

of  GDP  

17 

27 

24 

12 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see  Glossary. 

2  Aggregate  figure  for  four  categories. 

3  GDP — gross  domestic  product. 


355 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Table  5.  Monetary  Survey, 
Selected  Years,  1980-88 
(in  millions  of  Egyptian  pounds)  1 


1980 

1984 

1986 

1988 

Deposits 

Time  savings  and  foreign 

  3,589 

10,884 

21,127 

33,969 

Other  2 

4,112 

7,924 

11,511 

16,082 

  7,701 

18,808 

32,638 

50,051 

Domestic  credit 

Central  government 

8,248 

14,733 

19,484 

28,186 

Public  sector   

3,310 

7,479 

10,175 

13,651 

Private  sector  

2,174 

8,284 

12,888 

17,330 

Other  3 

333 

1,057 

2,200 

19,485 

,  ,    ,  ,  14,065 

31,553 

44,747 

78,652 

Money  supply  4 

  2,367 

6,529 

11,493 

21,608 

Other  

  7,997 

19,400 

25,609 

32,941 

Total  money  supply   

10,364 

25,929 

37,102 

54,549 

  100 

172 

239 

336 

1  For  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see  Glossary. 

2  Includes  government,  demand,  and  import  deposits. 

3  Includes  institutions  similar  to  banks. 


4  Includes  combined  currency  in  circulation,  private  demand  deposits,  time  deposits  (including  foreign 
currency),  and  post  office  saving  deposits. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  Financial  Statistics, 
Washington,  1987,  318-20;  and  International  Monetary  Fund,  Financial  Statistics, 
Washington,  1989,  308-10. 


356 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Employment  Distribution  by  Sector, 
Selected  Years,  1966-86 
(in  thousands) 


Sector  1966  1       1976  1  1983         1986  1 


Agriculture  2    4,447  4,224  4,385  4,542 

Industry  3    1,140  1,257  1,696  1,954 

Trade    559  1,016  1,188  1,187 

Construction    206  434  724  336 

Transportation  and 

communications   340  422  464  581 

Other  services    1,602  2,276  4,012  3,818 


TOTAL    8,294      9,629      12,469  12,418 


1  Census  year. 

2  Includes  fishing. 

3  Includes  mining,  manufacturing,  and  electricity. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Department  of  Commerce,  International 
Trade  Administration,  Marketing  in  Egypt,  Washington,  December  1981,  6;  Khalid 
Ikram,  et  al.,  Egypt:  Economic  Management  in  a  Period  of  Transition,  Baltimore,  1980, 
134-35;  and  National  Bank  of  Egypt,  Economic  Bulletin,  40,  Nos.  1-2,  1987. 


Table  7.  Cropped  Area,  Selected  Years,  1952-87 
(in  thousands  oifeddans)  1 


Cropped  Area 

1952 

1974 

1980 

1987 

Winter  crops  2  

Summer  crops  3  

Fall  crops  4   

Fruit  orchards   

4,364 
3,026 
1,824 
94 

4,980 
5,101 
667 
273 

4,926 
5,045 
803 
361 

5,098 
4,842 
854 
616 

TOTAL   

9,308 

11,021 

11,135 

11,410 

1  See  Glossary. 

2  Main  crops  include  wheat,  beans,  barley,  onions, 

and  clover  (for 

fodder). 

3  Main  crops  include  cotton,  rice,  millet,  and  sugarcane. 

4  Main  crop  is  corn. 


357 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Table  8.  Major  Crop  Production,  Selected  Years,  1974-87 


 1974  1980  1987 

Crop  Area  1       Output  2  Area       Output  Area  Output 


Clover    2,797  49  2,711  54  2,714  55 

Cotton   1,453  1,204  1,245  1,408  980  978 

Corn    1,387  2,640  1,905  3,231  1,811  3,367 

Wheat    1,370  1,884  1,326  1,736  1,373  2,721 

Rice    1,051  2,244  972  2,382  983  2,279 

Vegetables   895  6,520  1,027  8,013  1,024  9,964 

Fruits    320  2,068  437  3,757  616  3,666 


1  In  thousands  of feddans  (see  Glossary). 

2  In  tons. 


Table  9.  Planned  Public  and  Private  Investment, 
FY  1987-91  Five-Year  Plan 
(in  millions  of  Egyptian  pounds)  1 


Investment  Public        Private  Total 


  5,791 

6,400 

12,191 

Housing  

  167 

6,600 

6,767 

  4,703 

1,400 

6,103 

  4,761 

0 

4,761 

  4,017 

0 

4,017 

  852 

2,650 

3,502 

  2,427 

85 

2,512 

  1,435 

0 

1,435 

Petroleum  products   

  1,115 

0 

1,115 

Other  

  3,233 

865 

4,098 

TOTAL  2   

  28,500 

18,000 

46,500 

1  For  value  of  the  Egyptian  pound — see  Glossary. 

2  Figures  may  not  add  to  total  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Egypt's  Second  Five-Year  Plan  for  Socio-Economic  Develop- 
ment (1987/88-1991/92),  with  Plan  for  Year  One  (1987/88),  Cairo,  1987,  165. 


358 


Appendix 


Table  10.  Value  of  Foreign  Trade, 
Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1979 

1983 

1985 

1988 

Exports  (f.o.b.)  1 

Cotton   

348 

314 

414 

310 

198 

159 

140 

123 

Oil  (domestic  companies)  

....  1,880 

2,807 

2,891 

1,553 

Oil  (foreign  companies)   

948 

1,357 

1,890 

1,501 

Textiles   

  267 

199 

294 

455 

  351 

411 

447 

803 

3,992 

5,247 

6,076 

4,745 

Imports  (c.i.f.)  2 

....  1,677 

2,393 

2,711 

1,734 

Oil  and  other  energy 

243 

493 

469 

208 

Other  consumer  goods  

845 

1,218 

1,875 

1,997 

Intermediate  goods   

1,725 

2,322 

3,064 

3,693 

Capital  goods  

  2,315 

3,193 

3,475 

3,007 

Total  imports   

6,805 

9,6191 

1,594 

10,639 

Trade  deficit   

  -2,813 

-4,372 

-5,518 

-5,894 

Terms  of  trade  3 

  67 

95 

76 

71 

Import  price  index 

91 

94 

90 

110 

74 

102 

84 

65 

1  f.o.b. — free  on  board. 

2  c.i.f. — cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 

3  Terms  of  trade  means  export  price  index  divided  by  import  price  index.  Index  used  is 

1980=100. 

359 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Table  11.  Summary  of  Balance  of  Payments, 
Selected  Years,  1979-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

1979  1985  1988 

Current  account 


Exports  of  goods  and  nonfactor  services 


602 

409  1 

1,170 

Suez  Canal  

589 

897 

1,323 

Other   

4,210 

7,405 

6,066 

Total  

5,401 

8,711 

8,559 

Imports  of  goods  and  nonfactor  services 

-531 

-814 

n.a. 

Other  

-8,250 

-12,870 

n.a. 

Total  

8,781 

-13,684 

-12,491 

Trade  balance   

-3,380 

-4,973 

-3,932 

Net  factor  income 

-2,437 

-1,229 

Other   

-847 

-766 

-0,/cS't 

1  nor; 

-l  ,yyo 

Net  current  transfers 

3,496 

3,386 

Other 

n  a 

26 

22 

3  ^99 

J,tUo 

-1,915 

-4,735 

-2,519 

Trade  balance  as  percentage 

of  GDP  5   

-19.8 

-14.3 

-10.4 

Current  account  balance  as 

-11.2 

-13.6 

-6.6 

apital  account 

Long-term  capital  inflows 

1,375 

1,289 

993 

1,171 

980 

-133 

1,813 

-20 

0 

1 

Total  

2,527 

2,327 

3,787 

360 


Appendix 


Table  11. — Continued 


1979 


1985 


1988 


Total  other  net  items 
Net  short-term  capital 
Errors  and  omissions 
Other   


n.a. 


n.a. 


n.a. 


-5 
1,555 
0 


203 
-1,070 
1 


Total 


n.a. 


1,550 


-868 


Change  in  reserves  7 


-37 


-858 


-400 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  Income  from  Egypt  Air  moved  from  this  item  to  nonfactor  services. 

2  Projected. 

3  Includes  interest  on  arrears  and  estimates  of  interest  on  military  as  well  as  short-term  debt. 

4  Current  account  balance  consists  of  total  of  trade  balance,  net  factor  income,  and  net  current  transfers. 

5  GDP — gross  domestic  product. 

6  Includes  arrears  on  Western  military  debt. 

7  Change  in  reserves  consists  of  total  of  current  account  balance,  long-term  capital  inflows,  and  total 
other  net  items. 


361 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Table  12.  External  Debt,  Selected  Years,  1982-88  1 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1982-83 

1984-85 

1986-87 

1988  2 

Civilian  debt 

  18,230 

20,841 

26,527 

29,921 

Short-term   

  4,857 

5,196 

4,737 

4,737 

Interest  arrears   

,   670 

1,060 

964 

537 

Total  

  23,757 

27,097 

32,228 

35,195 

By  creditor 

Official   

  17,135 

19,510 

24,950 

28,155 

7  ^07 
/  ,Oo/ 

7  97Q 

Total  

  23,757 

27,097 

32,228 

35,195 

By  borrower 

  18,430 

21,180 

26,641 

35,195 

  527 

650 

984 

n.a. 

  4,800 

5,267 

4,603 

n.a. 

Total  

  23,757 

27,097 

32,228 

n.a. 

As  percentage  of  GDP  3   

  88 

87 

101 

109 

As  percentage  of  exports 

of  goods  and  services   

  312 

357 

471 

438 

  4,675 

6,975 

9,750 

10,800 

TOTAL   

  28,432 

34,072 

41,978 

45,995 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  Figures  are  annual  averages  for  periods  indicated. 

2  Projected. 

3  GDP — gross  domestic  product. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Institute  of  International  Finance,  Egypt:  Country  Report, 
88,  No.  2,  Washington,  August  15,  1988,  3. 


362 


Appendix 


Table  13.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1989 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin  Inventory 


Tanks 

M60A3   

T-54/-55   

T-62   

PT-76  (light)   

Armored  vehicles 

BRDM-2,  scout  car   

BMP-1,  infantry  combat  

BMR-600P,  wheeled,  various 
configurations   

Armored  personnel  carriers 

Walid,  four-wheeled   

Fahd,  four-wheeled   

BTR-50/OT-62   

M-113A2   

Towed  artillery 

M-31/-37,  122mm   

M-1938,  122mm  

D-30,  122mm  

M-46,  130mm   

M-1937,  152mm  

Multiple  rocket  launchers 

VAP-80-12,  80mm  

BM-21/Saqr  18,  122mm  

M-51  on  Praga  truck  chassis    .  . 

BM-13-16,  132mm  

BM-14-16,  140mm  

BM-24,  240mm   

Surface-to-surface  missile  launchers 

FROG-7,  60  km  range  

Scud-B,  300  km  range   

Saqr  D-3000,  80  km  range  

Saqr  D-6000,  122mm   

Mortars 

M-43,  120mm   

M-43,  160mm   

M-1953,  240mm  

Antitank  guided  missile  launchers 

AT-1  Snapper  

AT-2  Swatter  

AT-3  Sagger  

Milan   

Swingfire  

I-TOW  

Recoilless  rifles 

B-ll,  107mm   


United  States 
Soviet  Union 

-do- 

-do- 


-do- 
-do- 


Spain 


West  Germany,  Egypt 
-do- 
Soviet  Union 
United  States 


Soviet  Union 

-do- 
Egypt 
Soviet  Union 

-do- 


Soviet  Union 
Soviet  Union,  Egypt 
Czechoslovakia 
Soviet  Union 
-do- 
-do- 


Soviet  Union 
-do- 
Egypt 
-do- 


Soviet  Union 
-do- 
-do- 


-do- 

-do- 

-do- 
France 
Britain,  Egypt 
United  States 


Soviet  Union 


785 
1,040 
600 
15 


300 
220 

250 


1,000 
200 
1,075 
1,000 


48 
400 
220 
440 

12 


about 
300 


12 
9 

n.a. 
n.a. 


450 
100 
24 


800 
200 
1,400 
220 
200 
520 


363 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 
Table  13. — Continued 


Type  of  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


Inventory 


Air  defense  guns 

ZPU-2/-4,  14.5mm   

ZU-23-2,  23mm   

ZSU-23-4,  23mm,  self-propelled 

Nile,  23mm   , 

M-1939,  37mm   

S-60,  57mm   , 

ZSU-57-2,  57mm,  self-propelled 


Soviet  Union 


Soviet  Union 
-do- 
-do- 


-do- 
-do- 
Egypt 


n.a. 


460 
110 

45 
150 
300 

40 


Surface-to-air  missile  launchers 

SA-7/Ayn  as  Saqr/SA-9,  shoulder-fired 
M-54  Chaparral,  self-propelled   


Soviet  Union,  Egypt 
United  States 


1,200 
22 


n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  98; 
DMS  Market  Intelligence  Reports,  DMS  Foreign  Military  Markets — Middle  East/Africa, 
Greenwich,  Connecticut,  1989;  and  Military  Technology  and  Economics  (Miltech),  Bonn, 
January  1989,  1985. 


364 


Appendix 


Table  14.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1989 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


Inventory 


Fighter-ground  attack  aircraft 

Mirage  5E2   

F-4E  Phantom  

Shenyang  J-6  (MiG-19)  .  .  . 
Alpha  Jet   

MiG-17  Fresco  

Fighter-interceptor  aircraft 

MiG-21  Fishbed  

Shenyang  J-7  (MiG-21F)  .  . 
F-16A/C  Fighting  Falcon    .  , 

Mirage  5E   

Mirage  2000C   

Reconnaissance  aircraft 

Mirage  5  SDR  

MiG-21  Fishbed  

Bombers 

Tu-16  Badger   

Electronic  warfare 

EC-130H  Hercules   

Beech  1900   

Airborne  early  warning 

E-2C  Hawkeye   

Transport  aircraft 

C-130H  Hercules   

An- 12  Cub  

DHC-5D  Buffalo  

Training  aircraft 

Shenyang  J-6  (MiG-19)  .  .  . 
Alpha  Jet   

L-29  Delfin  (being  replaced) 
Gumhuriya   

EMB-312  Tucano   

Mirage  5  SDD  

Mirage  2000B   

F-16B  D  Fighting  Falcon  .  . 
DHC-5  Buffalo   

Attack  helicopters 

Gazelle  


France 
United  States 
China,  Egypt 
France,  West 

Germany 
Soviet  Union 


-do- 
China,  Egypt 
United  States 
France 

-do- 


-do- 
Soviet  Union 


-do- 


United  States 
-do- 


-do- 


-do- 
Soviet  Union 
Canada 


China,  Egypt 
France,  West 

Germany 
C  zechoslo  vakia 
Egypt,  West 

Germany 
Brazil,  Egypt 
France 
-do- 
United  States 
Canada 


France,  Egypt 


16 

33 
76 

15 

30 


83 
52 
67 
54 
16 


16 

29 
20 

36 
40 
5 
3 
13 
4 


72 


365 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14. — Continued 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


Inventory 


Transport  helicopters 

CH-47C  Chinook,  heavy    Italy  15 

Mi-6,  heavy   Soviet  Union  6 

Mi-8,  heavy   -do-  27 

Mk-1,  Commando,  medium    Britain  23 

Hiller  UH-12E,  light  (training)   United  States  17 

Mi-4,  light    Soviet  Union  12 

Naval  helicopters 

Sea  King,  antisubmarine    Britain  5 

Gazelle,  antiship    France,  Egypt  12 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  99; 
and  Aviation  Advisory  Services,  International  Air  Forces  and  Military  Aircraft  Directory, 
Essex,  United  Kingdom,  1989,  33-37. 


366 


Appendix 

Table  15.  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1989 

Country  Commissioned 
Type  and  Description  of  Origin  Inventory       or  Delivered 


Destroyers 

Al  Fatah,  British  Z  class, 
1,730  tons  (training) 

Frigates 

Descubierta  class,  1,480 
tons,  Harpoon  surface-to- 
surface  missiles  (SSMs) 

Jianghu  class,  2,000  tons, 
HY-2  Silkworm  SSMs 

Black  Swan  class,  1,925 
tons  (training) 

Submarines 

Romeo  class,  1,400  tons 
(four  being  modernized 
with  Harpoon  SSMs  and 
Mk  37  torpedoes) 
Whiskey  class,  1,080  tons 
(being  retired) 

Fast-attack  craft,  missile 
Ramadan  class,  307  tons, 

Otomat  SSMs 
Osa-I  class,  210  tons, 

SS-N-2A  Styx  SSMs 
October  class,  82  tons, 

Otomat  SSMs 
Hegu  class,  80  tons, 

Chinese  version 

of  Styx  missile 

Fast-attack  craft,  torpedo 
Shershen  class,  170  tons 
Shanghai  II  class, 

155  tons 
Hainan  class,  392  tons 


Landing  ships,  multipurpose 
Polnochny  A  class, 

800  tons 
Vydra  class,  600  tons 
SMB-1  class,  360  tons 

Minesweepers 

T-43  class,  580  tons 
Yurka  class,  520  tons 
T-301,  180  tons  (inshore) 


Britain 

Spain 

China 
Britain 

Soviet  Union, 


Transferred  1955; 
modernized  1964. 


Commissioned  1984. 


Commissioned 

1984-85. 
Transferred  1949. 


Transferred  1966-f 


China 

10 

and  1982-84. 

Soviet  Union 

2 

Transferred  1957 

and  1962. 

Britain 

6 

Commissioned 

1981-82. 

Soviet  Union 

7 

Delivered 

1966-68. 

Egypt 

6 

Refitted  1978-81 

in  Britain. 

China 

6 

Delivered  1984. 

Soviet  Union 

6 

Delivered  1967-6* 

China 

4 

Transferred  1984. 

-do- 

8 

Transferred 

1983-84. 

Soviet  Union 

3 

n.a. 

-do- 

9 

n.a. 

-do- 

2 

n.a. 

-do- 

3 

Transferred  1970. 

-do- 

4 

Transferred  1969. 

-do- 

2 

Transferred  1962. 

367 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 
Table  15. — Continued 


Country  Commissioned 
Type  and  Description  of  Origin  Inventory      or  Delivered 


Coast  Guard 

Large  patrol  craft  Various  32  n.a. 

Bertram  coastal  United  States  20  n.a. 

patrol  craft 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1989-90,  Alexandria,  Virginia, 
1989,  148-55. 


Table  16.  Major  Air  Defense  Force  Equipment,  1989 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin  Inventory 


Antiaircraft  guns 

20mm,  23mm  37mm,  40mm, 
57mm,  85mm,  and  100mm 


Various 


2,500 


Surface-to-air  missile  (SAM)  launchers 
SA-2 
SA-3 
SA-6 

Improved  Hawk 
Crotale 


Soviet  Union 

-do- 

-do- 
United  States 
France 


400 
240 
60 
108 
50 


Air  defense  systems  Italy,  United  18 

Amun  (Skyguard) — Sparrow  and  Ayn  as  Saqr  States,  Egypt 

SAMs  with  35mm  radar-guided  guns 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  London,  1989,  99. 


368 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abdel-Fadil,  Mahmoud.  Employment  and  Income  Distribution  in  Egypt, 
1952-1970.  (University  of  East  Anglia  Discussion  Paper  No.  4.) 
n.d. 

Abdel-Malek,  Anouar.  Egypt:  Military  Society.  New  York:  Vintage 
Books,  1968. 

Aldred,  Cyril.  The  Egyptians.  London:  Thames  and  Hudson,  1984. 
 .  Egypt  to  the  End  of  the  Old  Kingdom.  New  York:  McGraw- 
Hill,  1976. 

Aly ,  Abdel  Moneim  Said.  Back  to  the  Fold?  Egypt  and  the  Arab  World. 
(Occasional  Papers  Series.)  Washington:  Center  for  Contem- 
porary Arab  Studies,  Georgetown  University,  1988. 

Armour,  Robert  A.  Gods  and  Myths  of  Ancient  Egypt.  Cairo:  Ameri- 
can University  in  Cairo  Press,  1986. 

Badran,  Margot.  "Dual  Liberation:  Feminism  and  Nationalism  in 
Egypt,  1870s-1925,"  Feminist  Issues,  8,  No.  1,  Spring  1988,  15-34. 

Baer,  Gabriel.  "Social  Change  in  Egypt,  1800-1914."  Pages  135- 
61  in  P.M.  Holt  (ed.),  Political  and  Social  Change  in  Modern  Egypt. 
London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1968. 

 .  Studies  in  the  Social  History  of  Modern  Egypt.  Chicago:  Univer- 
sity of  Chicago  Press,  1969. 

Beinin,  Joel,  and  Zachary  Lockman.  Workers  on  the  Nile:  National- 
ism, Communism,  Islam,  and  the  Egyptian  Working  Class,  1882-1954. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1987. 

Bell,  H.  Idris.  Egypt  From  Alexander  the  Great  to  the  Arab  Conquest.  Ox- 
ford: Clarendon  Press,  1948. 

Butler,  Alfred.  The  Arab  Conquest  of  Egypt.  New  York:  AMS  Press, 
1973. 

Cole,  Juan  Ricardo.  "Feminism,  Class,  and  Islam  in  Turn-of-the- 
Century  Egypt."  International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  10, 
No.  2,  May  1979,  387-407. 

Crecelius,  Daniel.  The  Roots  of  Modern  Egypt.  Minneapolis:  Bibliothe- 
ca  Islamica,  1981. 

Davis,  Eric.  Challenging  Colonialism:  Bank  Misr  and  Egyptian  Industri- 
alization, 1920-1941.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Deeb,  Marius.  Party  Politics  in  Egypt:  The  Wafd  and  Its  Rivals, 
1919-1939.  London:  Ithaca  Press,  1979. 

Dekmejian,  Richard  Hrair.  Egypt  under  Nasir:  A  Study  in  Political 
Dynamics.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press,  1971. 


369 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Erman,  Adolf.  Life  in  Ancient  Egypt.  (Trans.,  H.M.  Tirard.)  New 
York:  Dover,  1971. 

Frankfort,  Henri.  The  Birth  of  Civilization  in  the  Near  East.  Blooming- 
ton:  Indiana  University  Press,  1959. 

Freedman,  Robert  O.  Soviet  Policy  Toward  the  Middle  East  since  1970. 
(3d  ed.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1982. 

Gazetteer  of  Egypt.  (2d  ed.)  Washington:  Defense  Mapping  Agen- 
cy, August  1987. 

Goldberg,  Ellis.  Tinker,  Tailor,  and  Textile  Worker:  Class  and  Politics  in 
Egypt,  1930-1952.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1986. 

Gran,  Peter.  Islamic  Roots  of  Capitalism.  Austin:  University  of  Texas 
Press,  1979. 

Groupe  de  Recherches  et  d'Etudes  sur  le  Proche-Orient.  LEgypte 

d'aujourd'hui:  Permanence  et  changements,  1805-1976.  Paris:  Centre 

National  de  la  Recherche  Scientifique,  1977. 
Haikal,  Muhammed  Hasanain.  Autumn  of  Fury:  The  Assassination 

of  Sadat.  New  York:  Random  House,  1983. 
 The  Road  to  Ramadan.  New  York:  Readers  Digest  Press, 

1975. 

Hinnebusch,  Raymond  A. ,  Jr.  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat:  The  Post- 
Populist  Development  of  an  Authoritarian-Modernizing  State.  (Rev.  ed.) 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,^T988. 

Hirst,  David.  The  Gun  and  the  Olive  Branch.  (2d  ed.)  London:  Faber 
and  Faber,  1984. 

Hirst,  David,  and  Irene  Beeson.  Sadat.  London:  Faber  and  Faber, 
1981. 

Hoffman,  Michael  H.  Egypt  Before  the  Pharaohs:  The  Prehistoric  Foun- 
dations of  Egyptian  Civilization.  New  York:  Knopf,  1979. 

Holt,  P.M.  Egypt  and  the  Fertile  Crescent,  1516-1922.  Ithaca:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1966. 

Holt,  P.M.  (ed.).  Political  and  Social  Change  in  Modern  Egypt.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1968. 

Holt,  P.M.,  Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and  Bernard  Lewis  (eds.).  The 
Cambridge  History  of  Islam.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1970. 

Hopwood,  Derek.  Egypt:  Politics  and  Society,  1945-1984.  Boston: 
Allen  and  Unwin,  1985. 

Hourani,  Albert.  Arabic  Thought  in  the  Liberal  Age,  1798-1939.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1984. 

Hunter,  Robert.  Egypt  under  the  Khedives,  1805-1879:  From  House- 
hold Government  to  Modern  Bureaucracy.  Pittsburgh:  University  of 
Pittsburgh  Press,  1984. 

Irwin,  Robert.  The  Middle  East  in  the  Middle  Ages:  The  Early  Mamluk 
Sultanate,  1250-1382.  London:  Croom  Helm,  1986. 


370 


Bibliography 


Issawi,  Charles.  The  Economic  History  of  the  Middle  East.  Chicago: 

University  of  Chicago  Press,  1966. 
Kamil,  Jill.  The  Ancient  Egyptians.  Cairo:  American  University  in 

Cairo  Press,  1984. 
Kissinger,  Henry.  Years  of  Upheaval.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1979. 
Lane-Poole,  Stanley.  Egypt  During  the  Middle  Ages.  London: 

Methuen,  1925. 

Lenczowski,  George.  The  Middle  East  in  World  Affairs.  (4th  ed.)  Itha- 
ca: Cornell  University  Press,  1980. 

Lewis,  Bernard.  "Egypt  and  Syria."  Pages  175-232  in  P.M.  Holt, 
Ann  K.S.  Lambton,  and  Bernard  Lewis  (eds.),  The  Cambridge 
History  of  Islam.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1970. 

McDermott,  Anthony.  Egypt  from  Nasser  to  Mubarak:  A  Flawed  Revo- 
lution. London:  Croom  Helm,  1988. 

Marsot,  Afaf  Lutfi  al-Sayyid.  Egypt  in  the  Reign  of  Muhammad  AH. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1984. 

 .  "Muhammad  Ali's  International  Politics."  Pages  153-73 

in  L  'Egypte  au  XIXe  siecle.  Groupe  de  Recherches  et  d' Etudes  sur 
le  Proche  Orient.  Paris:  Centre  National  de  la  Recherche  Scien- 
tifique,  1982. 

 "The  Revolutionary  Gentlewomen  in  Egypt."  Pages 

261-76  in  Louise  Beck  and  Nikki  Keddie  (eds.),  Women  in  the 
Muslim  World.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1978. 

Mitchell,  Timothy.  Colonizing  Egypt.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1988. 

Noshy,  Ibrahim.  The  Coptic  Church.  Washington:  Ruth  Sloane  As- 
sociates, 1975. 

Owen,  Roger.  "Egypt  and  Europe:  From  French  Expedition  to 
British  Occupation."  Pages  195-209  in  Roger  Owen  and  Bob 
Sutcliffe  (eds.),  Studies  in  the  Theory  of  Imperialism.  London:  Long- 
man Group,  1972. 

 The  Middle  East  in  the  World  Economy.  London:  Methuen, 

1981. 

Radwan,  Samir.  Capital  Formation  in  Egypt.  London:  Ithaca  Press, 
1974. 

Ramadan,  Abd  el-Azim.  "Social  Significance  of  the  Urabi  Revolt." 

Pages  187-96  in  L' Egypte  au  XIXe  siecle.  Groupe  de  Recherches 

et  d' Etudes  sur  le  Proche  Orient.  Paris:  Centre  National  de  la 

Recherche  Scientiflque,  1982. 
Raymond,  Andre.  Artisans  et  commerqants  au  Caire  au  XVIIIe  siecle. 

Damascus:  Institut  Francais  de  Damas,  1974. 
Scholch,  Alexander.  Egypt  for  the  Egyptians.  London:  Ithaca  Press, 

1981. 


371 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


 "The  Formation  of  a  Peripheral  State:  Egypt:  1854- 

1882."  Pages  175-85  in  L'Egypte  au  XIXe  siecle.  Groupe  de 
Recherches  et  d' Etudes  sur  le  Proche  Orient.  Paris:  Centre  Na- 
tional de  la  Recherche  Scientifique,  1982. 

Smith,  W.  Stevenson.  The  Art  and  Architecture  of  Ancient  Egypt.  (Rev., 
with  additions  by  William  Kelly  Simpson).  New  York:  Penguin 
Books,  1981. 

Springborg,  Robert.  Mubarak's  Egypt:  Fragmentation  of  the  Political 
Order.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

Terry,  Janice.  The  Wafd:  1919-1952.  London:  Third  World  Centre 
for  Research  and  Publishing,  1982. 

Trigger,  B.G.,  B.J.  Kemp,  D.  O'Connor,  and  A.B.  Lloyd.  An- 
cient Egypt:  A  Social  History.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1983. 

Tucker,  Judith.  Women  in  Nineteenth- Century  Egypt.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

Vatikiotis,  P.J.  The  History  of  Egypt  from  Muhammad  AH  to  Sadat.  Bal- 
timore: Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1980. 

Waterbury,  John.  The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat:  The  Political  Econo- 
my of  Two  Regimes.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Watt,  W.  Montgomery.  Muhammad  at  Mecca.  Oxford:  Clarendon 
Press,  1960. 

 .  Muhammad  at  Medina.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1962. 

Wissa  Wassef,  Ceres.  Egypt.  New  York:  Scala  Books,  1983. 


Chapter  2 

Abaza,  Mona.  The  Changing  Image  of  Women  in  Rural  Egypt.  (Cairo 
Papers  in  Social  Science,  No.  10.)  Cairo:  American  University 
in  Cairo  Press,  1987. 

Abdel-Fadil,  Mahmoud.  Development,  Income  Distribution,  and  Social 
Change  in  Rural  Egypt,  1952-1970.  (Department  of  Applied  Eco- 
nomics, Occasional  Papers,  No.  45.)  London:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1975. 

Abdel-Khalek,  Gouda,  and  Robert  L.  Tignor  (eds.).  The  Political 
Economy  of  Income  Distribution  in  Egypt.  New  York:  Holmes  and 
Meier,  1982. 

Abu-Lughod,  Janet.  Before  European  Hegemony:  The  World  System, 
A.D.  1250-1350.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1989. 

 Cairo:  1001  Years  of  the  City  Victorious.  Princeton:  Prince- 
ton University  Press,  1971. 


372 


Bibliography 

Abu-Lughod,  Lila.  ''Bedouins,  Cassettes,  and  Technologies  of  Pub- 
lic Culture,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  159,  July-August  1989, 
7-11,  47. 

 .  Veiled  Sentiments:  Honor  and  Poetry  in  a  Bedouin  Society.  Ber- 
keley: University  of  California  Press,  1986. 

Adams,  Michael.  The  Middle  East.  (Handbooks  to  the  Modern 
World  Series.)  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1988. 

Akhavi,  Shahrough.  "Egypt:  Neo-Patrimonial  Elite."  Pages  69- 
113  in  Frank  Tachau  (ed.),  Political  Elites  and  Political  Develop- 
ment. New  York:  Wiley,  1975. 

Aldridge,  James.  Cairo.  Boston  and  Toronto:  Little,  Brown,  1969. 

al-Guindi,  Fadwa.  "Veiling  Infitah  with  Muslim  Ethic,"  Social 
Problems,  28,  1981,  465-83. 

Ansari,  Hamied.  Egypt:  The  Stalled  Society.  Albany:  State  Univer- 
sity of  New  York  Press,  1986. 

 "The  Islamic  Militants  in  Egyptian  Politics, ' '  Internation- 
al Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  16,  No.  1,  1984,  123-44. 

 "Sectarian  Conflict  in  Egypt  and  the  Political  Expedien- 
cy of  Religion,"  Middle  East  Journal,  38,  No.  3,  Summer  1984, 
397-418. 

Aulas,  Marie-Christine.  "Sadat's  Egypt:  A  Balance  Sheet," 
MERIP Reports,  12,  No.  107,  July- August  1982,  6-11,  14-15,  18. 

Ayrout,  Henry  Habib.  The  Egyptian  Peasant.  (Trans.,  John  Alden 
Williams.)  Boston:  Beacon  Press,  1963. 

Ayubi,  Nazih.  Bureaucracy  and  Politics  in  Contemporary  Egypt.  Lon- 
don: Ithaca  Press,  1980. 

Baker,  Raymond.  Egypt's  Uncertain  Revolution  under  Nasser  and  Sadat. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1978. 

Banks,  Arthur  (ed.).  Political  Handbook  of  the  World,  1986.  Bingham- 
ton:  State  University  of  New  York  Press,  1986. 

Bannerman,  Patrick.  Islam  in  Perspective:  A  Guide  to  Islamic  Society, 
Politics,  and  Law.  London:  Routledge  for  Royal  Institute  of  In- 
ternational Affairs,  1988. 

Beinin,  Joel,  and  Zachary  Lockman.  Workers  on  the  Nile:  National- 
ism, Communism,  Islam,  and  the  Egyptian  Working  Class,  1882-1954. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1987. 

Berque,  Jacques.  Egypt:  Imperialism  and  Revolution.  (Trans.,  Jean 
Stewart.)  (Books  That  Matter  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1972. 

Binder,  Leonard.  In  a  Moment  of  Enthusiasm:  Political  Power  and  the 
Second  Stratum  in  Egypt.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press, 
1978. 

Chaichian,  Mohammad  A.  "The  Effects  of  World  Capitalist  Econ- 
omy on  Urbanization  in  Egypt,  1800-1970,"  International  Jour- 
nal of  Middle  East  Studies,  20,  No.  1,  February  1988,  23-43. 


373 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Committee  on  Population  and  Demography.  The  Estimation  of  Re- 
cent Trends  in  Fertility  and  Mortality  in  Egypt.  (National  Academy 
of  Science  Panel  on  Egypt,  Report  No.  9.)  Washington:  National 
Academy  Press,  1982. 

Egypt.  Central  Agency  for  Public  Mobilization  and  Statistics.  Popu- 
lation, Housing,  and  Establishment  Census,  1986.  Cairo:  CAPMAS, 
1987. 

"Egypt."  Pages  921-42  in  TheEuropa  Yearbook,  1986:  A  World  Survey. 

London:  Europa,  1986. 
"Egypt."  Pages  367-408  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1989. 

London:  Europa,  1989. 
"Egypt."  Pages  156-61  in  Arthur  Banks  (ed.),  Political  Handbook 

of  the  World,  1986.  Binghamton:  State  University  of  New  York 

Press,  1986. 

"Egypt's  Infitah  Bourgeoisie,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  142, 
September-October  1986,  39-40. 

Farah,  Nadia  Ramsis.  Religious  Strife  in  Egypt:  Crisis  and  Ideological 
Conflict  in  the  Seventies.  Montreux,  Switzerland:  Gordon  and 
Breach  Science,  1986. 

Fernea,  Elizabeth  Warnock,  and  Robert  Fernea.  The  Arab  World: 
Personal  Encounters.  Garden  City:  Anchor  Press/Doubleday,  1985. 

Fernea,  Elizabeth  Warnock  (ed.).  Women  and  the  Family  in  the  Mid- 
dle East:  New  Voices  of  Change.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press, 
1985. 

Fisher,  W.B.  "Egypt."  Pages  480-93  in  The  Middle  East:  A  Physical, 
Social,  and  Regional  Geography.  (6th  ed.)  London:  Methuen,  1971. 

 "Egypt:  Physical  and  Social  Geography."  Pages  364-67 

in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1989.  London:  Europa,  1989. 

Gazetteer  of  Egypt.  (2d  ed.)  Washington:  Defense  Mapping  Agen- 
cy, August  1987. 

Geiser,  Peter.  The  Egyptian  Nubian:  A  Study  in  Social  Symbiosis.  Cairo: 
American  University  in  Cairo  Press,  1986. 

Goldberg,  Ellis.  Tinker,  Tailor,  and  Textile  Worker:  Class  and  Politics 
in  Egypt,  1930-1952.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press, 
1986. 

Goldschmidt,  Arthur,  Jr.  Modern  Egypt:  The  Formation  of  a  Nation- 
State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Hammam,  Mona.  "Egypt's  Working  Women:  Textile  Workers 
of  Chubra  el-Kheima, ' '  MERIP Reports,  No.  82,  November  1979, 
3-7. 

Harik,  Iliya.  The  Political  Mobilization  of  Peasants:  A  Study  of  an  Egyptian 
Community.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1974. 

Harris,  Lillian  Craig  (ed.).  Egypt:  Internal  Challenges  and  Regional 
Stability.  London:  Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1988. 


374 


Bibliography 


Hatem,  Mervat.  "Egypt's  Middle  Class  in  Crisis:  The  Sexual  Di- 
vision of  Labor,"  Middle  East  Journal,  42,  No.  2,  Summer  1988, 
407-22. 

 "Toward  the  Study  of  the  Psychodynamics  of  Mother- 
ing and  Gender  in  Egyptian  Families,"  International  Journal  of 
Middle  East  Studies,  19,  No.  3,  August  1987,  287-306. 

Hinnebusch,  Raymond  A. ,  Jr.  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat:  The  Post- 
Populist  Development  of  an  Authoritarian-Modernizing  State.  (Rev.  ed.) 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1988. 

Hirschhorn,  Norbert.  "Appropriate  Health  Technology  in  Egypt," 
Middle  East  Report,  No.  161,  November-December  1989,  26-28. 

Hussein,  Aziza.  "Recent  Amendments  to  Egypt's  Personal  Sta- 
tus Law."  Pages  229-32  in  Elizabeth  Warnock  Fernea  (ed.), 
Women  and  the  Family  in  the  Middle  East:  New  Voices  of  Change. 
Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1985. 

Ibrahim,  Barbara  Lethem.  "Cairo's  Factory  Women."  Pages 
293-99  in  Elizabeth  Warnock  Fernea  (ed.),  Women  and  the  Fam- 
ily in  the  Middle  East:  New  Voices  of  Change.  Austin:  University 
of  Texas  Press,  1985. 

Ibrahim,  Ibrahim.  "Religion  and  Politics  under  Nasser  and  Sadat, 
1952-1981."  Pages  121-34  in  Barbara  Freyer  Stowasser  (ed.), 
The  Islamic  Impulse.  London:  Croom  Helm,  1987. 

Ibrahim,  Saad  Eddin.  "Anatomy  of  Egypt's  Militant  Islamic 
Groups:  Methodological  Note  and  Preliminary  Findings,"  In- 
ternational Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  12,  No.  4,  December  1980, 
423-53. 

 "Egypt's  Islamic  Militants,"  MERIP  Reports,  12,  No. 

103,  February  1982,  5-14. 

Juynboll,  Gautier  (trans.).  The  History  of  al-Tabari:  The  Conquest  of 
Iraq,  Southwestern  Persia,  and  Egypt,  13.  (Biblioteca  Persica  Se- 
ries.) Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press,  1989. 

Kepel,  Gilles.  Muslim  Extremism  in  Egypt:  The  Prophet  and  the  Pharaoh. 
(Trans.,  Jan  Rothschild.)  Berkeley:  University  of  California 
Press,  1986. 

Khadduri,  Majid.  Modern  Libya:  A  Study  in  Political  Development.  Bal- 
timore: Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1963. 

Khafagy,  Fatma.  "Women  and  Labor  Migration:  One  Village  in 
Egypt,"  MERIP  Reports,  No.  124,  June  1984,  17-21. 

LaTowsky,  Robert.  "Egyptian  Labor  Abroad:  Mass  Participation 
and  Modest  Returns,"  MERIP  Reports,  No.  123,  May  1984, 
11-18. 

McDermott,  Anthony.  Egypt  from  Nasser  to  Mubarak:  A  Flawed  Revo- 
lution. London:  Croom  Helm,  1988. 


375 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  1989.  London:  Europa,  1989. 

Momen,  Moojan.  An  Introduction  to  Shi'i  Islam.  New  Haven:  Yale 
University  Press,  1985. 

Mortimer,  Edward.  Faith  and  Power:  The  Politics  of  Islam.  New  York: 
Random  House,  1982. 

Myntti,  Cynthia.  "Medical  Education:  The  Struggle  for  Rele- 
vance," Middle  East  Report,  No.  161,  November-December  1989, 
11-15. 

Nasr,  Seyyed  Hossein.  Traditional  Islam  in  the  Modern  World.  Lon- 
don: KPI,  1987. 

Orfalea,  Gregory.  Before  the  Flames:  A  Quest  for  the  History  of  Arab 
Americans.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1988. 

Peretz,  Don.  The  Middle  East  Today.  (2d  ed.)  Hinsdale,  Illinois: 
Dryden  Press,  1971. 

Piscatori,  James  (ed.).  Islam  in  the  Political  Process.  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1983. 

Richards,  Alan.  Egypt's  Agricultural  Development,  1800-1980:  Tech- 
nical and  Social  Change.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

 ' '  Egypt '  s  Agriculture  in  Trouble , ' '  MERIP  Reports,  No . 

84,  January  1980,  3-13. 

Rodenbeck,  Max.  "Revolution  of  Goodwill,"  Middle  East  Interna- 
tional [London],  No.  342,  January  20,  1989,  12-13. 

 ' '  Stamping  on  Extremists, ' '  Middle  East  International  [Lon- 
don], No.  341,  January  6,  1989,  12-13. 

 '  'Trouble  at  the  Mill, ' '  Middle  East  International  [London] , 

No.  357,  August  25,  1989,  13. 

Rugh,  Andrea  B.  Family  in  Contemporary  Egypt.  Syracuse:  Syracuse 
University  Press,  1984. 

 '  'Women  and  Work:  Strategies  and  Choices  in  a  Lower- 

Class  Quarter  of  Cairo."  Pages  273-88  in  Elizabeth  Warnock 
Fernea  (ed.),  Women  and  the  Family  in  the  Middle  East:  New  Voices 
of  Change.  Austin:  University  of  Texas  Press,  1985. 

Saab,  Gabriel.  The  Egyptian  Agrarian  Reform,  1952-1962.  London: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1967. 

Springborg,  Robert.  Family,  Power,  and  Politics  in  Egypt:  Say  ed  Bey 
Marei — His  Clan,  Clients,  and  Cohorts.  Philadelphia:  University 
of  Pennsylvania  Press,  1982. 

 .  Mubarak's  Egypt:  Fragmentation  of  the  Political  Order.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

Stork,  Joe.  "Political  Aspects  of  Health, ' '  Middle  East  Report,  No. 
161,  November-December  1989,  4-10. 

Taylor,  Elizabeth.  "Egyptian  Migration  and  Peasant  Wives," 
MERIP  Reports,  No.  124,  June  1984,  3-10. 


376 


Bibliography 


Tyson,  James.  "Letter  From  Siwa,"  Middle  East  International  [Lon- 
don], No.  352,  June  9,  1989,  24. 

Wahba,  Mourad.  "Social  Aspects."  Pages  11-30  in  Lillian  Craig 
Harris  (ed.),  Egypt:  Internal  Challenges  and  Regional  Stability.  Lon- 
don: Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1988. 

Waterbury ,  John.  The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat:  The  Political  Econo- 
my of  Two  Regimes.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Wikan,  Unni.  Life  among  the  Urban  Poor  of  Cairo.  (Trans. ,  Ann  Hen- 
ning.)  New  York:  Tavistock,  1980. 

 _.  "Living  Conditions  among  Cairo's  Poor:  A  View  from 

Below,"  Middle  East  Journal,  39,  No.  1,  Winter  1985,  7-26. 

Williams,  Caroline.  "Islamic  Cairo:  Endangered  Legacy,"  Mid- 
dle East  Journal,  39,  No.  3,  Summer  1985,  231-46. 

Zaalouk,  Malak.  Power,  Class,  and  Foreign  Capital  in  Egypt:  The  Rise 
of  the  New  Bourgeoisie.  London:  Zed  Books,  1989. 


Chapter  3 

Abdel-Fadil,  Mahmoud.  Development,  Income  Distribution,  and  Social 
Change  in  Rural  Egypt,  1952-1970.  (Department  of  Applied  Eco- 
nomics, Occasional  Papers,  No.  45.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1975. 

.  The  Political  Economy  of  Nasserism.  (Department  of  Eco- 
nomics, Occasional  Papers,  No.  52.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1980. 

Ahmed,  Sadiq.  Public  Finance  in  Egypt:  Its  Structure  and  Trends.  (Staff 
Working  Papers,  No.  639.)  Washington:  World  Bank,  1984. 

Amin,  Galal  Ahmad.  "External  Factors  in  the  Reorientation  of 
Egypt's  Economic  Policy."  Pages  285-315  in  Malcolm  Kerr  and 
El  Sayed  Yassin  (eds.),  Rich  and  Poor  States  in  the  Middle  East:  Egypt 
and  the  New  Arab  Order.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

Bedding,  James.  "Money  Down  the  Drain,"  New  Scientist  [Lon- 
don], No.  1660,  April  15,  1989,  34-38. 

Bremer,  Jennifer.  New  Lands  Concepts,  Paper  2:  Rethinking  an  AID 
Assistance  Strategy  for  the  New  Lands  of  Egypt.  Washington:  Develop- 
ment Alternatives,  1981. 

Central  Bank  of  Egypt.  Economic  Review  [Cairo],  27,  No.  1,  1987. 

Charnock,  Anne.  "The  Greening  of  Egypt,"  New  Scientist  [Lon- 
don], 23,  January  23,  1986,  44-48. 

Choucri,  Nazli.  "The  Hidden  Economy:  A  New  View  of  Remit- 
tances in  the  Arab  World,"  World  Development  [London],  14,  No. 
6,  June  1986,  697-712. 


377 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Commander,  Simon.  The  State  and  Agricultural  Development  in  Egypt 
since  1973.  London:  Ithaca  Press  for  Overseas  Development  In- 
stitute, London,  1987. 

Cuddihy,  William.  Agricultural  Price  Management  in  Egypt.  (Staff 
Working  Paper  No.  388.)  Washington:  World  Bank,  1980. 

Dairy  mple,  Dana  G.  Development  and  Spread  of  High-Yielding  Rice  Var- 
ieties in  Developing  Countries.  (Bureau  of  Science  and  Technology 
Series.)  Washington:  Agency  for  International  Development, 
1986. 

 Development  and  Spread  of  High-  Yielding  Wheat  Varieties  in 

Developing  Countries.  (Bureau  of  Science  and  Technology  Series.) 
Washington:  Agency  for  International  Development,  1986. 

Dethier,  Jean-Jacques.  Trade,  Exchange  Rate,  and  Agricultural  Pric- 
ing Policies  in  Egypt.  (2  vols.)  Washington:  World  Bank,  1989. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Report:  Egypt,  1987-88.  Lon- 
don, 1988. 

Egypt.  Central  Agency  for  Public  Mobilization  and  Statistics. 
Statistical  Yearbook,  1952-1987.  Cairo:  CAPMAS,  1988. 

*  'Egypt."  Page  617  in  George  Kurian  (ed.),  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third 
World,  1.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987.  " 

"Egypt:  Economy."  Pages  384-96  in  The  Middle  East  and  North  Afri- 
ca, 1990.  London:  Europa,  1989. 

Elmusa,  Sharif  S.  "Dependency  and  Industrialization  in  the  Arab 
World,"  Arab  Studies  Quarterly,  8,  No.  3,  1986,  253-67. 

Gotsch,  Carl,  and  Wayne  Dyer.  "Rhetoric  and  Reason  in  the  Egyp- 
tian 'New  Lands,'"  Food  Research  Institute  Studies,  18,  No.  2, 
129-36. 

Habeeb,  William  Mark  (ed.),  U.S. -Egyptian  Relations  in  an  Era  of 
Economic  Constraints,  Washington:  Middle  East  Institute  and  In- 
stitute for  National  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 

Hansen,  Bent  and  Karim  Nashashibi.  Foreign  Trade  Regimes  and  Eco- 
nomic Development:  Egypt.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press 
for  National  Bureau  of  Economic  Research,  1975. 

Hopkins,  Nicholas.  Agrarian  Transformation  in  Egypt.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

 "Mechanized  Irrigation  in  Upper  Egypt:  The  Role  of 

Technology  and  the  State  in  Agriculture."  Pages  223-47  in  B.L. 
Turner  and  Stephen  Bush  (eds.),  Comparative  Farming  Systems,  New 
York:  Guilford,  1987. 

Husayn,  Adil.  Al-Iqtisad  al-Misri  min  al-Istiqlal  ila  al-Tabaiyah  (The 
Egyptian  Economy  from  Independence  to  Dependency).  Cairo: 
Dar  al-Mustaqbal  al-Arabi,  1982. 

Ibrahim,  Ibrahim  (ed.),  Arab  Resources.  Washington:  Center  for 
Contemporary  Arab  Studies,  Georgetown  University,  1983. 


378 


Bibliography 


Ikram,  Khalid,  et  al.  Egypt:  Management  in  a  Period  of  Transition.  Balti- 
more: Johns  Hopkins  University  Press  for  the  World  Bank,  1980. 

Institute  of  International  Finance.  Egypt:  Country  Report,  88,  No. 
1,  Washington:  January  26,  1988. 

 .  Egypt:  Country  Report,  88,  No.  2,  Washington:  August  15, 

1988. 

 Egypt:  Country  Report.  89,  No.  1,  Washington:  February 

8,  1989. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Financial  Statistics,  40.  Washington: 
1987. 

 Financial  Statistics,  42.  Washington:  1989. 

International  Rice  Research  Institute.  Rice  Farming  Systems:  New 
Directions.  (Proceedings  of  1987  international  symposium  at  the 
Rice  Research  and  Training  Center,  Sakha,  Egypt.)  Manila: 
1988. 

Jane's  World  Railways,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  Allen  Geoffrey.)  Coulsdon, 
Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1989. 

Kishk,  M.A.  "Land  Degradation  in  the  Nile  Valley,"  Ambio,  15, 
No.  4,  1986,  226-30. 

Korayem,  Karima.  The  Impact  of  Economic  Adjustment  Policies  on  the 
Vulnerable  Families  and  Children  in  Egypt.  Cairo:  UNICEF,  1987. 

Kubursi,  Atif.  "Arab  Agricultural  Productivity:  A  New  Perspec- 
tive." Pages  71-101  in  Ibrahim  Ibrahim  (ed.),  Arab  Resources. 
Washington:  Center  for  Contemporary  Arab  Studies,  George- 
town University,  1983. 

Lesch,  Ann  M.  "Egyptian  Politics  in  the  1990s."  Pages  12-26  in 
William  Mark  Habeeb  (ed.),  U.S. -Egyptian  Relations  in  an  Era 
of  Economic  Constraints.  Washington:  Middle  East  Institute  and 
Institute  for  National  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 

Mabro,  Robert.  The  Egyptian  Economy,  1952-72.  Oxford:  Claren- 
don Press,  1974. 

Mabro,  Robert,  and  Samir  Radwan.  The  Industrialization  of  Egypt, 
1939-1973:  Policy  and  Performance.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1976. 

National  Bank  of  Egypt.  Economic  Bulletin  [Cairo],  40,  Nos.  1-2, 
1987. 

Oweiss,  Ibrahim.  "Egypt's  Current  Economic  Situation."  Pages 
2-11  in  William  Mark  Habeeb  (ed.),  U.S. -Egyptian  Relations  in 
an  Era  of  Economic  Constraints,  Washington:  Middle  East  Insti- 
tute and  Institute  for  National  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 

Pleskovic,  Boris.  "Interindustry  Flows  in  a  General  Equilibrium 
Model  of  Fiscal  Incidence:  An  Application  to  Egypt,"  Journal 
of  Policy  Modeling,  11,  No.  1,  Spring  1989,  157-77. 

Richards,  Alan.  Egypt's  Agricultural  Development,  1800-1980:  Tech- 
nical and  Social  Change.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 


379 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


 Food  Problems  and  Prospects  in  the  Middle  East.  (Occasional 

Paper  Series.)  Washington:  Center  for  Contemporary  Arab 
Studies,  Georgetown  University,  1984. 

Richards,  Alan,  and  Philip  Martin.  ' 'Introduction."  Pages  1-14 
in  Alan  Richards  and  Philip  Martin  (eds.),  Migration,  Mechani- 
zation, and  Agricultural  Labor  Markets  in  Egypt.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Westview  Press,  1983. 

Sadowski,  Yahya.  "The  Sphinx's  New  Riddle:  Why  Does  Egypt 
Delay  Economic  Reform?"  American- Arab  Affairs,  22,  Fall  1987, 
28-40. 

Scobie,  Grant  M.  Food  Subsidies  and  the  Government  Budget  in  Egypt. 
(Working  Papers  on  Food  Subsidies,  No.  2.)  Washington:  In- 
ternational Food  Policy  Research  Institute,  1985. 

Sennitt,  Andrew  G.  (ed.).  World  Radio  TV  Handbook,  1990,  44. 
Hvidovre,  Denmark:  Billboard,  1990. 

Sherbiny,  Naiem,  and  Ismail  Serageldin.  "Expatriate  Labor  and 
Economic  Growth:  Saudi  Demand  for  Egyptian  Labor."  Pages 
225-57  in  Malcolm  Kerr  and  El  Sayed  Yassin  (eds.),  Rich  and 
Poor  States  in  the  Middle  East:  Egypt  and  the  New  Arab  Order.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

Springborg,  Robert.  Mubarak's  Egypt:  Fragmentation  of  the  Political 
Order.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

Tucker,  Judith.  Women  in  Nineteenth-Century  Egypt.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

United  Nations.  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  World  Hun- 
ger. Rome:  1980. 

United  States.  Department  of  Commerce.  International  Trade  Ad- 
ministration. Marketing  in  Egypt.  Washington:  GPO,  December 
1981. 

Vivian,  Cassandra  (ed.).  Cairo,  a  Practical  Guide.  (6th  ed.)  Cairo: 

American  University  in  Cairo  Press,  1986. 
Voll,  Sarah.  "Egyptian  Land  Reclamation  since  the  Revolution," 

Middle  East  Journal,  34,  No.  2,  Spring  1980,  127-48. 
von  Braun,  Joachim,  and  Hartwig  de  Haen.  The  Effects  of  Food  Price 

and  Subsidy  Policies  on  Egyptian  Agriculture.  (Research  Report  No. 

42.)  Washington:  International  Food  Policy  Research  Institute, 

1983. 

Waterbury,  John.  The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat:  The  Political  Econo- 
my of  Two  Regimes.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Wolfe,  Ronald  (trans.).  Egypt's  Second  Five- Year  Plan  for  Socio- Economic 
Development  (1987/88-1991/92),  with  Plan  for  Year  One  (1987/88). 
Cairo:  Professional  Business  Services,  1987. 

World  Bank.  "Egypt,"  Trends  in  Developing  Economies.  Washing- 
ton: 1989,  129-34. 


380 


Bibliography 

 .  World  Tables,  1988-89.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  Univer- 
sity Press,  1989. 

World  Resources  Institute  and  International  Institute  for  Environ- 
ment and  Development.  "Food  and  Agriculture."  Pages  51- 
67  and  271-84  in  World  Resources,  1988-89,  Washington:  1989. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Al  Ahram  [Cairo];  Al  Ahram  al  Iq- 
tisadi  [Cairo];  Egypte  Contemporaine  [Cairo];  Financial  Times  [Lon- 
don]; International  Financial  Statistics;  Middle  East  Economic  Digest 
[London];  Middle  East  Report;  and  World  Development  Report.) 


Chapter  4 

Abdallah,  Ahmed.  The  Student  Movement  and  National  Politics  in  Egypt. 
London:  Saqi  Books,  1985. 

Abdel-Fadil,  Mahmoud.  Development,  Income  Distribution  and  Social 
Change  in  Rural  Egypt,  1952-1970.  (Department  of  Applied  Eco- 
nomics, Occasional  Papers,  No.  45.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1975. 

 The  Political  Economy  of  Nasserism.  (Department  of  Econom- 
ics, Occasional  Papers,  No.  52.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge  Univer- 
sity Press,  1980. 

Abdel-Khalek,  Gouda,  and  Robert  L.  Tignor  (eds.).  The  Political 
Economy  of  Income  Distribution  in  Egypt.  London:  Holmes  and  Mei- 
er, 1982. 

Abdel-Malek,  Anouar.  Egypt:  Military  Society.  New  York:  Vintage 
Books,  1968. 

Adams,  Richard  H.  Development  and  Social  Change  in  Rural  Egypt. 
Syracuse:  Syracuse  University  Press,  1986. 

Ajami,  Fouad.  The  Arab  Predicament:  Arab  Political  Thought  and  Prac- 
tice since  1967.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1981. 

 "The  Open  Door  Economy:  Its  Roots  and  Welfare  Con- 
sequences." Pages  469-516  in  Gouda  Abdel-Khalek  and  Robert 
L.  Tignor  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  Income  Distribution  in 
Egypt.  London:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1982. 

Akhavi,  Shahrough.  "Egypt:  Diffused  Elite  in  a  Bureaucratic  So- 
ciety." Pages  223-65  in  I.  William  Zartman  (ed.),  Political  Elites 
in  Arab  North  Africa.  New  York:  Longman,  1982. 

 "Egypt:  Neo-Patrimonial  Elite."  Pages  69-113  in  Frank 

Tachau  (ed.),  Political  Elites  and  Political  Development  in  the  Middle 
East.  New  York:  Wiley,  1975. 


381 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

al-Guindi,  Fadwa.  "The  Mood  in  Egypt,"  Middle  East  Insight,  4, 
Nos.  4-5,  1986,  30-39. 

Altman,  Israel.  "Islamic  Movements  in  Egypt,"  Jerusalem  Quar- 
terly [Jerusalem],  10,  1979,  87-105. 

Ansari,  Hamied.  Egypt:  The  Stalled  Society.  Albany:  State  Univer- 
sity of  New  York  Press,  1986. 

Aulas,  Marie  Christian.  "Sadat's  Egypt,"  New  Left  Review,  98, 
1976,  pp.  84-95. 

 .  "Sadat's  Egypt:  A  Balance  Sheet."  Pages  6-18  in MERIP 

Reports,  No.  107,  July-August  1982. 

Ayubi,  Nazih.  Bureaucracy  and  Politics  in  Contemporary  Egypt.  Lon- 
don: Ithaca  Press,  1980. 

 "Implementation  Capability  and  Political  Feasibility  of 

the  Open  Door  Policy  in  Egypt."  Pages  349-413  in  Gouda  Ab- 
dul Khalek  and  Robert  L.  Tignor  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy 
of  Income  Distribution  in  Egypt.  London:  Holmes  and  Meier,  1982. 

 .  "The  Political  Revival  of  Islam:  The  Case  of  Egypt,"  In- 
ternational Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  12,  No.  4,  December  1980, 
481-99. 

Baker,  Raymond.  Egypt's  Uncertain  Revolution  under  Nasser  and  Sadat. 
Cambridge:  Harvard  University  Press,  1978. 

Beinin,  Joel,  and  Zachary  Lockman.  Workers  on  the  Nile:  National- 
ism, Communism,  Islam,  and  the  Egyptian  Working  Class,  1882-1954. 
Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1987. 

Berger,  Morroe.  The  Arab  World  Today.  New  York:  Doubleday, 
1962. 

 Bureaucracy  and  Society  in  Modern  Egypt.  Princeton:  Prince- 
ton University  Press,  1957. 

Berque,  Jacques.  Egypt:  Imperialism  and  Revolution.  (Trans.,  Jean 
Stewart.)  (Books  That  Matter  Series.)  New  York:  Praeger,  1972. 

Bianchi,  Robert.  "Businessmen's  Associations  in  Egypt  and  Tur- 
key," Annals,  482,  November  1985,  147-54. 

 .  "The  Corporatization  of  the  Egyptian  Labor  Movement," 

Middle  East  Journal,  40,  No.  3,  Summer  1986,  429-44. 

Binder,  Leonard.  "Egypt:  The  Integrative  Revolution."  Pages 
396-449  in  Lucian  Pye  and  Sidney  Verba  (eds.),  Political  Cul- 
ture and  Political  Development.  Princeton:  Princeton  University 
Press,  1965. 

 .  The  Ideological  Revolution  in  the  Middle  East.  New  York: 

Wiley,  1964. 

 In  a  Moment  of  Enthusiasm:  Political  Power  and  the  Second  Stra- 
tum in  Egypt.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1978. 

 "Political  Recruitment  and  Participation  in  Egypt."  Pages 

217-40  in  Joseph  LaPalombara  and  Myron  Weiner  (eds.), 


382 


Bibliography 


Political  Parties  and  Political  Development.  Princeton:  Princeton 
University  Press,  1966. 

Brown,  William.  The  Last  Crusade:  A  Negotiator's  Middle  East  Hand- 
book. Chicago:  Aldine,  1980. 

Buttner,  Friedemann.  "Political  Stability  Without  Stable  Institu- 
tions: The  Re-Traditionalization  of  Egypt's  Policy,"  Orient,  20, 
53-76. 

Cooper,  Mark.  "Egyptian  State  Capitalism  in  Crisis:  Economic 
Policies  and  Political  Interests,  1967-1971,"  International  Jour- 
nal of  Middle  East  Studies,  10,  No.  4,  1979,  481-516. 

 .  The  Transformation  of  Egypt.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins 

University  Press,  1982. 

Cremeans,  Charles  D.  The  Arabs  and  the  World:  Nasser's  Arab  Na- 
tionalist Policy.  New  York:  Praeger,  1963. 

Critchfield,  Richard.  Shahhat:  An  Egyptian.  Syracuse:  Syracuse 
University  Press,  1978. 

Dawisha,  Adeed.  Egypt  in  the  Arab  World:  The  Elements  of  Foreign 
Policy.  New  York:  Wiley,  1976. 

Dawisha,  Adeed,  and  I.  William  Zartman.  Beyond  Coercion:  The 
Durability  of  the  Arab  State.  London:  Croom  Helm,  1988. 

Deeb,  Marius.  Party  Politics  in  Egypt:  The  Wafd  and  Its  Rivals, 
1919-1939.  London:  Ithaca  Press,  1979. 

Dekmejian,  Richard  Hrair.  Egypt  under  Nasir:  A  Study  in  Political 
Dynamics.  Albany:  State  University  of  New  York  Press,  1971. 

 "Marx,  Weber,  and  the  Egyptian  Revolution,"  Middle 

East  Journal,  30,  No.  2,  Spring  1976,  158-72. 

 Patterns  of  Political  Leadership:  Egypt,  Lebanon,  Israel.  Alba- 
ny: State  University  of  New  York  Press,  1975. 

Dessouki,  Ali  E.  Hillal.  "Policy  Making  in  Egypt:  A  Case  Study 
of  the  Open  Door  Policy,"  Social  Problems,  28,  No.  4,  April  1984, 
410-16. 

 "The  Politics  of  Income  Distribution  in  Egypt."  Pages 

55-87  in  Gouda  Abdel-Khalek  and  Robert  L.  Tignor  (eds.),  The 
Political  Economy  of  Income  Distribution  in  Egypt.  London:  Holmes 
and  Meier,  1982. 

Entelis,  John  P.  " Nasir' s  Egypt:  The  Failure  of  Charismatic 
Leadership,"  Orbis,  28,  No.  2,  1974,  451-64. 

Fahmi,  Ismail.  Negotiating  for  Peace  in  the  Middle  East.  Baltimore: 
Johns  Hopkins  University  Press,  1983. 

Goldschmidt,  Arthur,  Jr.  Modern  Egypt:  The  Formation  of  a  Nation- 
State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Groupe  de  Recherches  et  d'Etudes  sur  le  Proche-Orient.  L'Egypte 
d'aujourd'hui:  Permanence  et  changements,  1805-1976.  Paris:  Centre 
National  de  la  Recherche,  1977. 


383 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

Haikal,  Muhammed  Hasanain.  Autumn  of  Fury:  The  Assassination 

of  Sadat.  New  York:  Random  House,  1983. 
 Nasir:  The  Cairo  Documents.  London:  New  English  Library, 

1971. 

 The  Road  to  Ramadan.  New  York:  Readers  Digest  Press, 

1975. 

 The  Sphinx  and  the  Commissar.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row, 

1978. 

Halpern,  Manfred.  The  Politics  of  Social  Change  in  the  Middle  East 
and  North  Africa.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1963. 

Harik,  Iliya.  "Continuity  and  Change  in  Local  Development  Poli- 
cies in  Egypt, ' '  International  Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  16,  No. 
1,  1984,  43-66. 

 .  "Mobilization  Policy  and  Rural  Change  in  Egypt."  Pages 

287-334  in  Iliya  Harik  and  Richard  Antoun  (eds.),  Rural  Politics 
and  Social  Change  in  the  Middle  East.  Bloomington:  Indiana  Univer- 
sity Press,  1972. 

 "Opinion  Leaders  and  the  Mass  Media  in  Rural  Egypt," 

American  Political  Science  Review,  65,  No.  3,  September  1972, 
731-40. 

 The  Political  Mobilization  of  Peasants:  A  Study  of  an  Egyptian 

Community.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1974. 
 "The  Single  Party  as  a  Subordinate  Movement:  The  Case 

of  Egypt,"  World  Politics,  26,  No.  1,  October  1973,  80-105. 
Harik,  Iliya,  and  Richard  Antoun  (eds.).  Rural  Politics  and  Social 

Change  in  the  Middle  East.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press, 

1972. 

Heaphey,  James.  "The  Organization  of  Egypt:  Inadequacies  of 
a  Non-Political  Model  of  Nation-Building, "  World  Politics,  26, 
1965,  80-105. 

Hendriks,  Bertus.  "Egypt's  New  Political  Map:  Report  from  the 
Election  Campaign, "  Middle  East  Report,  No.  147,  July- August 
1987,  23-31. 

Hill,  Enid.  Mahkama!  Studies  in  the  Egyptian  Legal  System,  London: 
Ithaca  Press,  1979. 

Hinnebusch,  Raymond  A. ,  Jr.  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat:  The  Post- 
Populist  Development  of  an  Authoritarian-Modernizing  State.  (Rev.  ed.) 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1988. 

 "From  Nasir  to  Sadat:  Elite  Transformation  in  Egypt," 

Journal  of  Middle  East  and  South  Asian  Studies,  7,  No.  1,  Fall  1983, 
24-49. 

 "The  Re-emergence  of  the  Wafd  Party:  Glimpses  of  the 

Liberal  Opposition  in  Egypt, ' '  International  Journal  of  Middle  East 
Studies,  16,  No.  1,  1984,  99-121. 


384 


Bibliography 


Hirst,  David,  and  Irene  Beeson.  Sadat.  London:  Faber  and  Faber, 
1981. 

Hussein,  Mahmoud.  Class  Conflict  in  Egypt.  New  York:  Monthly 
Review  Press,  1973. 

Ibrahim,  Saad  Eddin.  "Anatomy  of  Egypt's  Militant  Islamic 
Groups:  Methodological  Note  and  Preliminary  Findings,"  In- 
ternational Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  12,  No.  4,  December  1980, 
423-53. 

Issawi,  Charles.  Egypt  in  Revolution:  An  Economic  Analysis.  New  York: 

Oxford  University  Press,  1963. 
Kepel,  Gilles.  Muslim  Extremism  in  Egypt:  The  Prophet  and  the  Pharaoh. 

(Trans.,  Jan  Rothschild.)  Berkeley:  University  of  California 

Press,  1986. 

Kerr,  Malcolm.  The  Arab  Cold  War:  Abd  al-Nasir  and  His  Rivals.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1971. 

Kerr,  Malcolm,  and  El  Sayed  Yassin  (eds.).  Rich  and  Poor  States 
in  the  Middle  East:  Egypt  and  the  New  Arab  Order.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: Westview  Press,  1982. 

LaPalombara,  Joseph,  and  Myron  Weiner  (eds.).  Political  Parties 
and  Political  Development.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press, 
1966. 

Lenczowski,  George  (ed.).  Political  Elites  in  the  Middle  East.  Washing- 
ton: American  Enterprise  Institute,  1975. 

Mabro,  Robert.  The  Egyptian  Economy,  1952-1972.  Oxford:  Claren- 
don Press,  1974. 

Mansfield,  Peter.  Nasser's  Egypt.  Baltimore:  Penguin  Books,  1969. 

Mayfield,  James.  Rural  Politics  in  Nasir's  Egypt.  Austin:  University 
of  Texas  Press,  1971. 

Mitchell,  Richard.  The  Society  of  the  Muslim  Brothers.  London:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1969. 

Moore,  Henry  Clement.  "Authoritarian  Politics  in  Unincorporated 
Society:  The  Case  of  Nasser's  Egypt,"  Comparative  Politics,  6, 
No.  2,  January  1974,  193-218.  " 

 Images  of  Development:  Egyptian  Engineers  in  Search  of  Development. 

Cambridge:  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology  Press,  1980. 

 "Money  and  Power:  The  Dilemma  of  the  Egyptian  In- 

fitah,"  Middle  East  Journal,  40,  No.  4,  Autumn  1986,  634-50. 

O'Brien,  Patrick.  The  Revolution  in  Egypt's  Economic  System:  From 
Private  Enterprise  to  Socialism,  1952-1965.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1966. 

Owen,  Roger.  "Mubarak's  Dilemma,"  MERIP Reports,  No.  117, 
September  1983,  12-27. 

Post,  Erika.  "Egypt's  Elections."  Middle  East  Report,  No.  147, 
July-August  1987,  17-22. 


385 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Pye,  Lucian,  and  Sidney  Verba  (eds.).  Political  Culture  and  Political 

Development.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1965. 
Radwan,  Samir.  Agrarian  Reform  and  Rural  Poverty:  Egypt,  1952- 

1972.  Geneva,  Switzerland:  ILO,  1977. 
Riad,  Mahmoud.  The  Struggle  for  Peace  in  the  Middle  East.  London: 

Quartet  Books,  1982. 
Richards,  Alan.  ''Ten  Years  of  Infitah:  Class,  Rent,  and  Policy 

Stasis  in  Egypt,"  Journal  of  Development  Studies,  20,  No.  4,  July 

1984,  323-38. 

Sadat,  Anwar.  In  Search  of  Identity:  An  Autobiography.  New  York: 
Harper  and  Row,  1978. 

Sennitt,  Andrew  G.  (ed.).  World  Radio  TV  Handbook,  1990,  44. 
Hvidovre,  Denmark:  Billboard,  1990. 

Shazli,  Saad.  The  Crossing  of  the  Suez.  San  Francisco:  American 
Mideast  Research,  1980. 

 Mubarak's  Egypt:  Fragmentation  of  the  Political  Order.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

.  "Patrimonialism  and  Policy  Making  in  Egypt:  Nasir  and 
Sadat  and  the  Policy  for  Reclaimed  Lands, "  Middle  Eastern  Studies 
[London],  15,  No.  1,  26,  January  1979,  49-59. 

Springborg,  Robert.  Family  Power  and  Politics  in  Egypt:  Sayed  Bey 
Marei — His  Clan,  Clients,  and  Cohorts.  Philadelphia:  University 
of  Pennsylvania  Press,  1982. 

 "Patterns  of  Association  in  the  Egyptian  Political  Elite. " 

Pages  83-107  in  George  Lenczowski  (ed.),  Political  Elites  in  the 
Middle  East.  Washington:  American  Enterprise  Institute,  1975. 

 "The  President  and  the  Field  Marshal:  Civil-Military  Re- 
lations in  Egypt  Today."  Middle  East  Report,  No.  147,  July- 
August  1987,  5-16. 

 "Professional  Syndicates  in  Egyptian  Politics,"  Interna- 
tional Journal  of  Middle  East  Studies,  9,  No.  3,  1978,  275-95. 

Stephens,  Robert.  Nasser:  A  Political  Biography.  New  York:  Simon 
and  Schuster,  1974. 

Tachau,  Frank  (ed.).  Political  Elites  and  Political  Development  in  the 
Middle  East.  New  York:  Wiley,  1975. 

Tripp,  Charles,  and  Roger  Owen  (eds.).  Egypt  under  Mubarak.  Lon- 
don: Routledge,  1989. 

Tucker,  Judith,  and  Joe  Stork.  "Mubarak's  Transition."  MERIP 
Reports,  No.  107,  July-August  1982,  3-6. 

Udovitch,  L.  (ed.).  The  Middle  East:  Oil,  Politics,  and  Hope.  Lex- 
ington, Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1976. 

Vatikiotis,  P.J.  The  Egyptian  Army  in  Politics:  Pattern  for  New  Nations? 
Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1961. 


386 


Bibliography 

 Nasser  and  His  Generation.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press, 

1978. 

Waterbury,  John.  Egypt:  Burdens  of  the  Past,  Options  for  the  Future. 
Hanover,  New  Hampshire:  American  Universities  Field  Staff, 
1976. 

 The  Egypt  of  Nasser  and  Sadat:  The  Political  Economy  of  Two 

Regimes.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

 "Egypt:  The  Wages  of  Dependency."  Pages  291-351  in 

L.  Udovitch  (ed.),  The  Middle  East:  Oil,  Politics,  and  Hope.  Lex- 
ington, Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1976. 

 "The  Soft  State  and  the  Open  Door:  Egypt's  Experience 

with  Economic  Liberalization,  1974-1984,"  Comparative  Politics, 
18,  No.  1,  October  1985,  65-83. 

Yaari,  Ehud.  "Sadat's  Pyramid  of  Power,"  Jerusalem  Quarterly 
[Jerusalem],  14,  1980,  110-21. 

Yoram,  Peri.  Between  Battles  and  Ballots,  Israel's  Military  in  Politics. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1983. 

Zartman,  I.  William  (ed.).  Political  Elites  in  Arab  North  Africa.  New 
York:  Longman,  1982. 


Chapter  5 

Abdallah,  Ahmed.  "The  Armed  Forces  and  the  Democratic  Process 
in  Egypt,"  Third  World  Quarterly  [London],  10,  No.  4,  October 
1988,  1452-67. 

Amnesty  International  Report,  1988.  London:  Amnesty  Internation- 
al, 1988. 

Armstrong,  CP.  "Egypt."  Pages  147-65  in  Richard  A.  Gabriel 
(ed.),  Fighting  Armies :  Antagonists  in  the  Middle  East:  A  Combat  As- 
sessment. Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1983. 

Brassey's  Defence  Yearbook,  1989.  London:  Brassey's,  1989. 

Copley,  Gregory  R.  (ed.).  "Defense  in  Egypt,"  Defense  and  For- 
eign Affairs,  17,  No.  12,  December  1989. 

Cowell,  Alan.  "A  Poor  Land  Torn  by  a  Rich  Craving,"  New  York 
Times,  May  20,  1989,  14. 

DMS  Market  Intelligence  Reports.  DMS  Foreign  Military  Markets — 
Middle  East/ Africa.  Greenwich,  Connecticut:  Defense  Marketing 
Services,  1989. 

Dunn,  Michael  C.  "Arming  for  Peacetime:  Egypt's  Defense  In- 
dustry Today,"  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs,  15,  Nos.  10-11, 
October- November  1987,  20-24. 


387 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

 "Mother  of  the  World:  Egypt  in  Mubarak's  Second 

Term,"  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs,  18,  Nos.  10-11,  October- 
November  1987,  11-15. 

Dupuy,  Trevor  N.  Elusive  Victory:  The  Arab-Israeli  Wars,  1947-1974. 
New  York:  Harper  and  Row,  1978. 

Dyer,  Gwynne,  and  John  Keegan.  "Egypt."  Pages  162-73  in  John 
Keegan  (ed.),  World  Armies.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

"Egypt."  Pages  305-15  in  Gregory  R.  Copley  (ed.),  Defense  and 
Foreign  Affairs  Handbook,  1989.  Alexandria,  Virginia:  International 
Media,  1988. 

"Egypt."  Pages  102-6  in  George  Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  World  En- 
cyclopedia of  Police  Forces  and  Penal  Systems.  New  York:  Facts  on 
File,  1989. 

"Egypt."  Pages  143-49  in  Charles  Miller  (ed.),  Air  Forces  of  the 
World,  1988-89.  Geneva,  Switzerland:  Interavia,  1988. 

"Egyptian  Air  Force  and  Egyptian  Air  Defence  Command. ' '  Pages 
33-37  in  International  Air  Forces  and  Military  Aircraft  Directory. 
Stapleford  Air  Field  [Essex,  United  Kingdom]:  Aviation  Advi- 
sory Services,  1989. 

Eilts,  Hermann  Frederick.  "Egypt  in  1986:  Political  Disappoint- 
ments and  Economic  Dilemmas, "  Washington  Quarterly,  10,  No. 
2,  Spring  1987,  113-28. 

Gabriel,  Richard  A.  (ed.).  Fighting  Armies :  Antagonists  in  the  Middle 
East:  A  Combat  Assessment.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood 
Press,  1983. 

Gawrych,  George  W.  "The  Egyptian  High  Command  in  the  1973 
War,"  Armed  Forces  and  Society,  13,  No.  4,  Summer  1987,  535-57. 

Gold,  Dore.  America,  the  Gulf  and  Israel:  CENTCOM  (Central  Com- 
mand) and  Emerging  U.  S.  Regional  Security  Policies  in  the  Middle  East. 
(Jaffee  Center  for  Strategic  Studies,  Tel  Aviv  University  Study 
No.  11).  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Harris,  Lillian  Craig.  "Egypt:  The  Constraints  on  Revolution," 
Middle  East  International  [London],  No.  313,  November  21,  1987, 
16-17. 

Hill,  Enid.  Mahkama!  Studies  in  the  Egyptian  Legal  System.  London: 
Ithaca  Press,  1979. 

Hinnebusch,  Raymond  A.,  Jr.  Egyptian  Politics  under  Sadat:  The  Post- 
Populist  Development  of  an  Authoritarian-Modernizing  State.  (Rev.  ed.) 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1988. 

International  Air  Forces  and  Military  Aircraft  Directory.  Stapleford  Air  Field 
[Essex,  United  Kingdom]:  Aviation  Advisory  Services,  1989. 

International  Crime  Statistics,  1987-1988.  St.  Cloud,  France:  Inter- 
national Criminal  Police  Organization  (Interpol)  General 
Secretariat,  n.d. 


388 


Bibliography 


Jabber,  Paul.  ''Egypt's  Crisis,  America's  Dilemma,"  Foreign  Af- 
fairs, 64,  No.  5,  Summer  1986,  960-80. 

Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  Richard  Sharpe.)  Alexandria, 
Virginia:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1989. 

Joint  Publications  Research  Service — JPRS  (Washington).  The  fol- 
lowing items  are  from  the  JPRS  series: 
Translations  on  the  Near  East/South  Asia. 

"Cairo's  Security  Chief  Interviewed  on  Crime,"  Akhir  Saah 
[Cairo],  January  11,  1989  (JPRS  89-016,  March  3,  1989, 
16-21).  " 

"Narcotics  Traffic,  Organized  Financial  Crime  Grow,"  Al  Yaq- 
zah  alArahiyah  [Cairo],  May  1989  (JPRS  89-016-L,  July  28, 
1989,  7-8.). 

"Political  Violence  Phenomenon  in  Egypt:  Qualitative,  Analyti- 
cal, and  Comparative  Study,  1952-87,"  AlMustaqbal  [Beirut], 
November  1988  (JPRS  89-006,  January  26,  1989,  19-  24.). 
"Zaki  Badr  Defends  Prison  Measures,  Emergency  Law,  Him- 
self," AlAkhbar  [Cairo],  August  31,  1988  (JPRS  88-082, 
November  21,  1988,  114.). 
Keegan,  John  (ed.).  World  Armies.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 
Kurian,  George  Thomas  (ed.).  World  Encyclopedia  of  Police  Forces 

and  Penal  Systems.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1989. 
Kutter,  Wolf  D.,  and  Glenn  M.  Harned.  "Interoperability  with 
Egyptian  Forces,"  Infantry,  75,  No.  1 ,  January-February  1985, 
1,517. 

Levran,  Aharon,  and  Zeev  Eytan.  Pages  125-34  in  Aharon  Levran 
(ed.),  The  Middle  East  Military  Balance,  1986.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1987. 

Lippman,  Thomas  W.  Egypt  after  Nasser.  New  York:  Paragon  House, 
1989. 

McDermott,  Anthony.  Egypt  from  Nasser  to  Mubarak:  A  Flawed  Revo- 
lution. New  York:  Croom  Helm,  1988. 

Middleton,  Drew.  "U.S.  Aides  Say  Egypt  Lacks  Ability  to  Han- 
dle Weapons,"  New  York  Times,  February  21,  1986,  A8. 

The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990.  London:  International  Institute  for 
Strategic  Studies,  1989. 

Military  Technology  and  Economics  (Miltech).  Bonn:  January  1989. 

Miller,  Charles  (ed.).  Air  Forces  of  the  World,  1988-89.  Geneva,  Swit- 
zerland: Interavia,  1988. 

Miller,  Judith.  "Cairo's  Army  Has  New  Job:  Milk  the  Cow,"  New 
York  Times,  November  29,  1985,  114. 

The  Multinational  Force  and  Observers.  Rome:  Office  of  Public  Affairs, 
Multinational  Force  and  Observers,  1987. 


389 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 

1987  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs.  (Ed.,  Richard  F. 

Staar.)  Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1987. 
Pajak,  Roger  F.  Nuclear  Profileration  in  the  Middle  East:  Implications 

for  the  Superpowers.  (National  Security  Affairs  Monograph  Series, 

No.  82-1.)  Washington:  National  Defense  University  Press, 

1982. 

Perlmutter,  Amos.  Egypt:  The  Praetorian  State.  New  Brunswick,  New 
Jersey:  Transaction  Books,  1974. 

Perry,  Glenn  E.  "Egypt."  Pages  429-322  in  Richard  F.  Staar  (ed.), 
1987  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs.  Stanford,  Califor- 
nia: Hoover  Institution  Press,  1987. 

Sadowski,  Yahya.  "Egypt's  Islamist  Movement:  A  New  Political 
and  Economic  Force,"  Middle  East  Insight,  4,  No.  4,  1987,  37-44. 

Satloff ,  Robert  B .  Army  and  Politics  in  Mubarak 's  Egypt.  Washing- 
ton: Washington  Institute  for  Near  East  Policy,  1988. 

Schuler,  G.  Henry  M.  (ed.).  Egypt  and  Nuclear  Technology:  The  "Peace 
Dividend.  "  (Significant  Issues  Series  5,  No.  9.)  Washington: 
Center  for  Strategic  and  International  Studies,  Georgetown 
University,  1983. 

Seib,  Gerald  F.  "Double  Duty:  Egypt  Army  Provides  Bridges, 
Roads,  Goods — and  Much  Stability,"  Wall  Street  Journal,  208, 
No.  89,  November  4,  1986,  1,7. 
Springborg,  Robert.  Mubarak's  Egypt:  Fragmentation  of  the  Political 
Order.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

 .  "The  President  and  the  Field  Marshal:  Civil-Military  Re- 
lations in  Egypt  Today,"  Middle  East  Report,  No.  147,  July- 
August  1987,  5-16. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1988.  Washington:  GPO, 
1989. 

 Department  of  Defense.  Congressional  Presentation  for  Secu- 
rity Assistance  Programs,  Fiscal  Year  1990.  Washington:  1989. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1987.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  102d, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1988.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  103d, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1989. 

Vatikiotis,  P.J.  The  Egyptian  Army  in  Politics:  Pattern  for  New  Nations? 
Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1961. 


390 


Bibliography 


Yaari,  Ehud.  "Israel's  Egypt  Problem,"  Washington  Post,  March 
13,  1988,  C5. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs;  Economist 
[London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report, 
Middle  East,  South  Asia;  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London];  Joint  Pub- 
lications Research  Service,  Near  East/ Africa  Report;  Keesing's  Record 
of  World  Events  [Edinburgh] ;  Middle  East  International  [London] ;  New 
York  Times;  and  Washington  Post.) 


391 


Glossary 


Egyptian  pound  (£E) — Consists  of  100  piasters.  In  early  1990,  the 
pound  was  worth  between  US$1.00  and  US$1.50  depending 
on  the  exchange  rate  that  applied;  the  informal  market  rate 
was  £E  =  US$0.40. 

feddan(s) — Equals  1.038  acres. 

FY  (fiscal  year)— Since  July  1,  1980,  July  1  through  June  30. 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  value  measure  of  the  flow  of 
domestic  goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  over  a 
period  of  time,  such  as  a  year.  Only  output  values  of  goods 
for  final  consumption  and  investment  are  included  because  the 
values  of  primary  and  intermediate  production  are  assumed 
to  be  included  in  final  prices.  GDP  is  sometimes  aggregated 
and  shown  at  market  prices,  meaning  that  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies  are  included;  when  these  have  been  eliminated,  the 
result  is  GDP  at  factor  cost.  The  word  gross  indicates  that  deduc- 
tions for  depreciation  of  physical  assets  have  not  been  made. 
See  also  GNP. 

GNP  (gross  national  product) — The  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — q.  v. )  plus  the  net  income  or  loss  stemming  from  trans- 
actions with  foreign  countries.  GNP  is  the  broadest  measure 
of  the  output  of  goods  and  services  by  an  economy.  It  can  be 
calculated  at  market  prices,  which  include  indirect  taxes  and 
subsidies.  Because  indirect  taxes  and  subsidies  are  only  trans- 
fer payments,  GNP  is  often  calculated  at  factor  cost,  remov- 
ing indirect  taxes  and  subsidies. 

imam — A  word  used  in  several  senses.  In  general  use  and  in  low- 
er case,  it  means  the  leader  of  congregational  prayers;  as  such 
it  implies  no  ordination  or  special  spiritual  powers  beyond  suffi- 
cient education  to  carry  out  this  function.  It  is  also  used  figura- 
tively by  many  Sunni  (q.  v. )  Muslims  to  mean  the  leader  of  the 
Islamic  community.  Among  Shias  (q.  v. )  the  word  takes  on  many 
complex  meanings;  in  general,  it  indicates  that  particular 
descendant  of  the  House  of  Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib,  who  is  believed 
to  have  been  God's  designated  repository  of  the  spiritual 
authority  inherent  in  that  line.  The  identity  of  this  individual 
and  the  means  of  ascertaining  his  identity  have  been  the  major 
issues  causing  divisions  among  Shias. 

infitah — Literally  open  door;  refers  to  Anwar  as  Sadat's  policy  af- 
ter the  October  1973  War  of  relaxing  government  controls  on 


393 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


the  economy  so  as  to  encourage  the  private  sector  and  stimu- 
late the  inflow  of  foreign  funds. 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  (UN)  and  is  responsible  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 
main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers (including  industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when 
they  experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans 
frequendy  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  eco- 
nomic adjustments  by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are  develop- 
ing countries. 

Ismaili  Shia  Islam — A  subsect  of  Shia  Islam  that  takes  its  name 
from  Imam  Muhammad  ibn  Ismail,  the  Seventh  Imam.  Ismaili 
Shia  doctrine  closely  resembled  Twelver  Shia  Islam  with  regard 
to  observance  of  the  sharia  but  also  included  a  system  of 
philosophy  and  science  coordinated  with  religion  that  proved 
the  divine  origin  of  the  imamate  and  the  rights  of  the  Fatimids 
to  it.  Ubaid  Allah,  al  Mahdi,  the  founder  of  the  Fatimid  Dy- 
nasty, came  to  North  Africa  in  the  early  tenth  century  and 
actively  promoted  the  Ismaili  faith.  See  also  Shia. 

khedive — Name  given  to  the  ruler  of  Egypt  from  1867  to  1914. 
He  governed  as  semi-independent  viceroy  of  the  sultan  of 
Turkey. 

mufti — Religious  jurist  who  issues  judgments  and  opinions  on  Is- 
lamic law  and  precedent. 

patrimonial — Relates  to  an  estate  or  any  heritage  from  one's  father 
or  other  ancestors. 

pharaonic — Refers  to  the  glories  of  Egypt's  ancient  period  under 
the  rule  of  the  pharaohs. 

piaster — See  Egyptian  pound. 

Shia  (from  Shiat  Ali,  the  Party  of  Ali) — A  member  of  the  smaller 
of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Shias  supported  the 
claims  of  Ali  and  his  line  to  presumptive  right  to  the  caliphate 
and  leadership  of  the  Muslim  community,  and  on  this  issue 
they  divided  from  the  Sunni  (q.  v. )  in  the  great  schism  within 
Islam.  Later  schisms  have  produced  further  divisions  among 
the  Shias  over  the  identity  and  number  of  Imams  (q.  v.).  Most 
Shias  revere  Twelve  Imams,  the  last  of  whom  is  believed  to 
be  in  hiding.  Ismaili  Shias  are  connected  with  the  Fatimid  Dy- 
nasty in  Egypt;  some  believe  that  Muhammad  ibn  Ismail,  the 
Seventh  Imam,  was  the  last  Imam.  See  also  Ismaili  Shia  Islam. 

Special  Drawing  Right(s)  (SDR) — A  monetary  unit  of  the  Inter- 
national Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  (q.v.)  based  on  a  basket  of 


394 


Glossary 


international  currencies  consisting  of  the  United  States  dollar, 
the  German  deutschmark,  the  Japanese  yen,  the  British  pound 
sterling,  and  the  French  franc, 
statist — One  who  advocates  the  concentration  of  all  economic  con- 
trols and  planning  in  the  hands  of  a  highly  centralized 
government. 

Sublime  Porte — Ottoman  Empire  palace  entrance  that  provided 
access  to  the  chief  minister,  representing  the  government  and 
the  sultan.  Term  came  to  mean  the  Ottoman  government. 

Sunni  (from  sunna,  orthodox) — A  member  of  the  larger  of  the  two 
great  divisions  of  Islam.  The  Sunnis  supported  the  traditional 
method  of  election  to  the  caliphate  and  accepted  the  Umayyad 
line.  On  this  issue  they  divided  from  the  Shias  (q.  v. )  in  the  great 
schism  within  Islam. 

West  Bank — The  portion  of  Jordan  west  of  the  Jordan  River  and 
the  Dead  Sea  that  was  seized  by  Israel  in  the  June  1967  War 
(Arab-Israeli  war,  also  known  as  the  Six-Day  War)  and  in  1991 
remained  Israeli-occupied  territory. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund, 
but  administered  by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960 
to  furnish  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much 
easier  terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  devel- 
oped countries.  The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the 
IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The  three  institu- 
tions are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  sub- 
scribe their  capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group, 
member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF— q.v.). 


395 


Index 


Abbas  (Khedive),  43 

Abbas  Hilmi  I,  31,  33 

Abbasid  caliphate,  4,  20,  21;  destruc- 
tion of,  by  Mongols,  24;  migration  of 
Turkish  tribes  during,  23;  occupation 
of,  by  Turks,  24;  return  of  Egypt  to,  22 

Abbasid  Empire,  23 

Abdin  Palace,  47 

Abduh,  Muhammad,  45 

Abdul  Aziz  (Sultan),  36 

Abdulla,  Ismail  Sabri,  247 

Abdul  Majid,  Ismat,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  240, 
282 

Abu  an  Nasr,  Muhammad  Hamid,  270 

Abu  an  Nur,  Abdul  Muhsin,  71 

Abu  Bakr,  134 

Abu  Basha,  Hassan,  240 

Abu  Ghazala,  Abdul  Halim,  240,  249, 
304,  322;  American  connections  of, 
247;  career  of,  246-47,  305;  concern  of, 
over  Israel,  302;  dismissed,  305;  insti- 
tution of  privileges  for  military,  247, 
320-21;  military  production  under, 
327;  Military  Technical  Academy  un- 
der, 318 

Abu  Qir,  27 

Abu  Rudays  oil  fields,  80 

Abu  Simbel  (Abu  Sunbul),  12,  111,  163 

Abu  Sunbul.  See  Abu  Simbel 

Abu  Talib,  Yusuf  Sabri,  305 

Abu  Uwayqilah,  296,  299 

Abu  Zaabal  Company  for  Engineering 

Industries,  328 
Abu  Zaabal  Tank  Repair  Factory,  328 
ACDA.  See  United  States  Arms  Control 

and  Disarmament  Agency 
Achaemenid  Empire  (Persian  Empire),  13 
Achille  Lauro  hijacking,  214,  247,  287 
Acre,  27,  30 
Actium,  battle  of,  15 
Ad  Dawah,  262 
Aden,  48 
Afghanistan,  135 

Africa,  135;  Cairo  as  transshipment  point 
for,  106;  North,  134;  as  part  of  Egyp- 
tian Fatimid  Empire,  21;  role  of  Egypt 
in,  279 

African  Development  Bank,  xxviii 


Afrika  Korps,  295 
afterlife,  3,  5,  10 

AGIP.  See  Azienda  Generale  Italiana  dei 
Petroli 

agrarian  reform,  67,  180,  238,  264;  fer- 
tilizers and  pesticides  encouraged  un- 
der, 196;  successes  of,  252 
Agrarian  Reform  Law  of  1952,  58 
Agricultural  Affairs  Committee,  264 
agricultural  cooperatives,  183,  184 
agricultural  inputs:  cost  of,  196;  subsidies 

for,  186,  196,  250 
agricultural  laborers,  33,  175 
agricultural  production:  in  ancient  Egypt, 
5;  fall  in,  158;  insufficiency  of,  xxvi, 
182;  land  suitable  for,  xxv;  problems 
with,  xxvi 
agricultural  products  (see  also  under  names 
of  crops),  xxv;  controlled  crops,  187; 
fruits,  192,  193,  207;  kinds  of,  188; 
vegetables,  192,  207 
agricultural  sector,  xxv,  32;  as  key  eco- 
nomic sector,  180;  share  of  GDP,  159; 
stagnation  in,  158 
agriculture  (see  also  under  cropping  pat- 
terns), 229;  arable  land,  179;  area  cul- 
tivated, 179;  as  basis  for  development 
under  Muhammad  Ali,  29;  controls  on, 
169,  180;  conversion  to  cash-crop,  32; 
under  Fatimids,  22;  food  security,  181; 
growth  of,  184;  impact  of  import  trends 
on,  208;  irrigation  projects  for,  36, 
193-94;  mechanization  of,  195;  mili- 
tary production  in,  325-27;  technolog- 
ical changes,  193 
Agriculture,  Ministry  of,  184 
Ahmose:  unification  of  Egypt  by,  10 
aid:  from  Arab  states,  219,  280,  281;  eco- 
nomic, xxvi,  166;  military,  xxvi,  xxxiv; 
from  Paris  Club,  xxvi;  from  United 
States,  xxvi;  from  West,  280 
AID.  See  United  States  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development 
Aida,  107 

Air  Defense  Academy,  318 

Air  Defense  Force,  315-16;  commander 
of,  306;  conscripts  in,  293;  military 
materiel  of,  311;  reserves  of,  320; 


397 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


volunteers  in,  293 
air  defense  network,  315 
air  force,  311-13;  commander  of,  306; 

conscripts  in,  293;  destruction  of,  in 

June  1967  War,  298;  materiel,  314-15; 

reserves  of,  320;  support  of  navy  by, 

314-15;  volunteers  in,  293 
Air  Force  Academy,  318 
airlines,  163-64 
airports,  163-64 
Air  Sinai,  163-64 

Akhenaten  (Pharaoh)  (Amenhotep  IV),  12 

Akhetaten  (Tall  al  Amarinah;  Tell  al 
Amarna),  12 

AlAhali,  262 

Al  Ahram,  261 

AlAhrar,  262 

AlAkhbar,  261 

Al  Alamayn,  295 

Al  Arish,  18,  103 

AlAwd,  81 

Al  Awja,  296 

Al  Azhar  Mosque,  57 

Al  Azhar  University,  27,  40,  47,  113,  139; 
as  center  of  Islamic  orthodoxy,  23,  135, 
280;  founding  of,  xxiii,  21-22;  as  in- 
terpreter of  sharia,  xxiii;  reform  of,  136 

Al  Burullus,  100 

Aldred,  Cyril,  11,  12 

Alexander  the  Great,  15,  101,  110;  Alex- 
andria founded  by,  14,  108;  death  of, 
14;  defeat  of  Persians  by,  13;  welcome 
of,  by  Egyptians,  14 

Alexandria  (Al  Iskandariyah),  11,  16,  18, 
26,  27,  31,  34,  57,  60,  107-8,  118,  141; 
airport,  163;  anti-European  riots  in,  40; 
Armenians  in,  110;  British  bombard- 
ment of,  40;  British  occupation  of,  40; 
burning  of,  40;  conquered  by  Amr, 
134;  courts  in,  259;  decline  of,  108; 
demonstrations  in,  49,  54,  70;  elite  in, 
113;  under  Fatimids,  22;  founded  by 
Alexander,  14,  108;  free  zone  near, 
218;  governorate  of,  95;  Greeks  in,  110; 
impact  of  post- World  War  II  urbani- 
zation on,  94;  as  industrial  center,  108, 
205;  infant  mortality  in,  150;  library  at, 
14;  minorities  in,  110;  naval  base  in, 
313;  Nubians  in,  111;  patriarchate  of, 
17;  population  of,  108;  port  of,  164; 
precipitation  in,  103;  surrender  of,  to 
Amr,  20;  telephone  system,  165;  tem- 
perature in,  103 


Al  Fatah,  68 

Al  Fayyum,  47,  108 

Al  Fayyum  Oasis,  101 

Al  Fustat,  20,  21,  134,  135 

Algeria:  investment  in  Egyptian  tourist 

center,  215;  national  movement,  61 
AlGhardaqah,  102,  163,  215;  naval  base 

in,  313 
Al  Hizb  ash  Shaab,  50 
Al  Hizb  al  Umma.  See  Umma  Party 
Al  Hizb  al  Watani.  See  National  Party 
Al  Hizb  al  Watani  al  Ahli  (National 

Popular  Party),  40 
Ali,  21,  134 

Ali,  Ahmad  Ismail,  238,  245 
Ali,  Kamal  Hassan,  238,  240,  241 
Ali  Bey  al  Kabir,  25,  26,  29 
Al  Ihtisan,  262 

Al  Ikhwan  al  Muslimun.  See  Muslim 

Brotherhood 
alimony,  129 

Al  Iskandariyah.  See  Alexandria 
Al  Ismailiyah.  See  Ismailiya 
Al  Izbakiya  Gardens,  107 
Al  Jaridah,  45 

Al  Jihad,  xxiv,  xxxiv,  86,  270;  assassina- 
tion of  Sadat  by,  xxiv,  86,  139,  213, 
276,  279,  294,  335;  imprisonment  of, 
347-48 

Al  Jizah.  See  Giza 

Allenby,  Edmund,  48,  50 

Al  Liwa,  45 

Al  Liwa  al  Islami,  262 

Al  Maadi  Company  for  Engineering  In- 
dustries, 328 

Al  Mahallah  al  Kubra,  108 

Al  Mansurah,  47,  108 

AlMayu,  262 

Al  Minya,  108 

Al  Mutazz  (Caliph),  21 

Al  Qahirah.  See  Cairo 

Al  Qalyubiyah,  205 

Al  Wafd,  262 

Al  Wafd  al  Misri.  See  Wafd 
Amain,  22 

Amenhotep  IV  (Akhenaten),  12 
Amenophis  I  (Pharaoh),  11 
Amenophis  III  (Pharaoh),  11-12 
American  Civil  War:  effect  of,  on  cotton 
market,  32,  180;  effect  of,  on  Egyp- 
tian cotton,  33 
Americans  working  in  Egypt,  109-10 
Amin,  Ali,  261 


398 


Index 


Amin,  Mustafa,  261 

Amir,  Abdul  Hakim,  56,  69,  70,  233, 

237,  244,  299 
Amnesty  International,  348 
Amoco,  198 

Amr  ibn  al  As:  conquest  of  Egypt  by,  3, 
18-20,  134;  mosque  built  by,  20,  135 
Amun,  11 

Anatolia,  24,  25,  279 

Anglican  Church,  143 

Anglo-Egyptian  Condominium  Agree- 
ment of  1899,  51,  95 

Anglo-Egyptian  Treaty  of  1936,  46,  57; 
abrogated,  55;  provisions  of,  50-51, 
295 

Anglo-French  rivalry,  27,  28 
Anglo-Ottoman  Convention  of  1838,  31 
Anglo-Ottoman  invasion,  27 
An  Nahda  School,  57 
An  Nasr,  204 
An  Nur,  262 
anti-Arabism,  242 
Antigonus,  14 

Antiquities  Department,  257 
Antony,  Mark,  15 

AOI.  See  Arab  Organization  for  Industri- 
alization 

Arab  Atomic  Energy  Organization,  xxxi 

Arab  conquest,  18-20,  229;  conversion  to 
Islam  under,  20;  importance  of,  3 

Arab  Cooperation  Council,  xxxii,  210 

Arab  Defense  Pact,  256 

Arab  Fund  for  Social  and  Economic  De- 
velopment, xxviii 

Arab  Human  Rights  Organization,  348 

Arabia,  21,  131,  134,  279 

Arabian  Desert.  See  Eastern  Desert 

Arabian  Peninsula,  18,  110,  112,  294, 
303;  Egyptian  workers  in,  118 

Arabic  culture,  adoption  of,  18 

Arabic  language,  adoption  of,  18 

Arab-Islamic  identity,  283 

Arab-Israeli  conflict,  4,  280,  284;  Camp 
David  Accords  as  solution  to,  84-85 

Arab-Israeli  War,  First  (1948),  61;  ar- 
mistice in,  296;  defeat  of  Arabs  in,  54; 
described,  296;  role  of  navy  in,  313 

Arabization,  3,  20 

Arab  League.  See  League  of  Arab  States 
Arab  Legion  of  Transjordan,  54 
Arab  Mutual  Defense  Pact,  xxxii 
Arab  nationalism,  64 
Arab  oil  embargo,  78 


Arab  Organization  for  Industrialization 
(AOI),  329 

Arab  refugees  in  Egypt,  110 

Arabs,  110;  as  conquerors,  xxiii,  294;  as 
tourists,  214 

Arab  Satellite  (Arabsat),  165 

Arab  socialism,  xxv,  76,  166,  240,  242; 
goals  of,  xxiii;  implementation  of,  66 

Arab  Socialist  Union  (ASU),  xxiii,  xxix, 
67,  70,  266,  267,  269,  336;  benefits  of, 
to  peasants,  254;  Central  Committee 
of,  xxix;  dismantled,  266;  groupings  in, 
80;  leftists  purged  from,  336;  recom- 
mendation of,  for  Sadat  to  become 
president,  76;  Supreme  Executive 
Council  of,  70-71 

Arab  states:  aid  from,  280;  as  trading 
partners,  210 

Arab  summit  meetings,  68,  71,  74,  87 

Arab  unity,  82 

Arab  world:  Egypt's  isolation  from,  xxiv, 
210,  242,  281,  286;  Egypt  as  leader  of, 
74,  279,  283,  284,  297;  Egypt's  rehabili- 
tation with,  xxiv,  87,  210,  287,  288 

Arafat,  Yasir,  68,  72;  asylum  in  Egypt, 
287;  cease-fire  in  Jordanian  civil  war, 
74;  criticism  of  Egypt,  73;  expulsion  of, 
from  Lebanon,  87,  287;  meeting  with 
Mubarak  in  Cairo,  87 

Argentina,  323;  military  materiel  from, 
311 

Arians,  17 

Armament  Authority,  328 

armed  forces:  British  transfer  of  command 
to,  295;  budget  for,  171;  chief  of  staff, 
306;  commander  in  chief,  306;  condi- 
tions in,  320-21;  under  Constitution  of 
1971,  305;  modernization  program  of, 
310;  reduction  in  troop  strength  in, 
310;  respect  for,  297;  salaries  in,  321; 
shake-up  in,  following  June  1967  War, 
70;  systemic  shortcomings,  310 

Armed  Forces  Technical  College.  See 
Military  Technical  Academy 

Armenian  Apostolic  Church,  143 

Armenians,  110 

arms  inventory,  307-10;  antitank  rock- 
ets and  missiles,  310;  armored  person- 
nel carriers,  310;  battle  tanks,  307; 
infantry  combat  vehicles,  310 

army,  249,  278,  306-1 1 ;  commander  of, 
306;  commandos,  307;  conscripts  in, 
293,  306;  decision  making  in,  311; 


399 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


disposition  of,  307;  dissidents  in,  279; 
Frontier  Corps,  311;  illiteracy  in,  3 1 1 ; 
under  Ismail,  37;  paratroops,  307; 
reserves  of,  320;  rivalry  with  Ministry 
of  Interior,  279;  role  of,  in  develop- 
ment, 293;  role  of,  in  government,  229; 
role  of,  in  internal  security,  304; 
Sadat's  treatment  of,  246;  shortage  of 
well-trained  enlisted  personnel  in,  311; 
size  of,  295,  206;  tactical  formations, 
307;  view  of  Sadat,  246;  volunteers  in, 
293;  Western  District,  307 

army,  field:  commander  of,  306 

Army,  Second,  306-7 

Army,  Third,  306-7 

army  officers,  38;  mutiny  by,  40;  in  na- 
tionalist movement,  39;  opposition  of, 
to  European  intervention,  38;  privileges 
of,  321;  professionalism  of,  246;  resent- 
ment of  elite  by,  1 14;  secret  society  of,  39 

Army  Staff  College.  See  Command  and 
General  Staff  College 

Ar  Rawdah,  108 

Ar  Raydaniyah,  24 

art:  in  Early  Dynastic  Period,  7;  in  funer- 
ary temples,  11-12;  portraits  on  wood, 
15 

artisans,  34,  35 

Ashdod,  296 

Ash  Shaab,  86,  262 

Asia,  134,  164,  192,  279;  contact  of  an- 
cient Egypt  with,  7;  contact  of  Fatimids 
with,  22 
Assad,  Hafiz  al,  xxxi,  xxxv,  79 
Assembly  of  Delegates,  38,  43;  dissolved, 
39 

Assyria,  11 

ASU.  See  Arab  Socialist  Union 

Aswan,  108,  160;  air  service  to,  163;  Nu- 
bians in,  111;  temperatures  in,  103 

Aswan  Dam,  184,  194;  electric  genera- 
tion by,  199 

Aswan  High  Dam,  99,  252;  construction 
of,  xxiv,  xxvi,  95,  194;  displacement  of 
Nubians  by,  111,  195;  drainage  for, 
195;  effect  of,  on  agricultural  fertility, 
100,  186,  190;  effect  of,  on  beduins, 
113;  electric  generation  by,  197,  199; 
financing  of,  62,  65,  194;  problems 
with,  195;  reasons  for  constructing,  62; 
as  symbol  of  Egyptian  nationalism,  194 

Asyut,  99,  108,  276;  courts  in,  259 

Asyut  barrages,  194 


Asyut  Province,  47 
Asyut  University,  139 
Atbarah  River,  96,  99 
Atlee,  Clement,  54 
At  Takfir  wal  Hijra,  270 
Augustus  (Emperor),  15 
Australians,  46 
Austria,  30 
Avaris,  9 

Axis  Powers,  52,  295 
Ayn  Jalut,  battle  of,  4,  24 
Ayn  Shams,  276 

Ayyubid  dynasty,  22,  23,  24;  rule  of 

Egypt  under,  23 
Azienda  Generale  Italiana  dei  Petroli 

(AGIP),  198 
Az  Zaqaziq,  34,  49,  108 


Baath  Party,  xxxi 

Bab  al  Yun.  See  Babylon;  Cairo 

Babylon  (Bab  al  Yun)  (see  also  Cairo),  20; 
capture  of,  18-20 

Badr,  Zaki,  xxxiv,  240,  274,  348 

Badran,  Shams  ad  Din,  69,  70 

Baghdad,  21 ;  as  capital  of  Abbasid  caliph- 
ate, 20,  22,  24;  fall  of,  to  Mongols,  4; 
occupation  of,  by  Turks,  23,  24 

Baghdadi,  Abd  al  Latif  al,  56,  237 

Baghdad  Pact,  59,  60 

Bahrain,  303 

Bahriyyah,  24 

Baker,  James  A.,  Ill,  xxvii;  Middle  East 
talks  arranged  by,  xxxiii 

balance  of  payments,  170,  209,  213;  cap- 
ital account,  210,  216;  current  account, 
210;  role  of  oil  in,  210-11 

balance  of  power:  in  British  occupation, 
49;  between  East  and  West,  281;  inter- 
Arab,  280 

Bandung,  Indonesia,  61 

Bangladesh,  179 

Banha  Company  for  Electronic  Indus- 
tries, 329 

Bani  Suwayf,  xxxiv,  108;  courts  in,  259 

banking:  government  control  of,  173;  in- 
vestment returns,  173;  joint  venture 
projects  in,  218;  problems  in,  174 

Bank  Misr,  173 

Bank  of  Alexandria,  173 

Bank  of  Cairo,  173 

banks,  173-74;  nationalization  of,  173 

Banna,  Hassan  al,  55,  138,  270 


400 


Index 


Baqaya  Jihannam,  335 

Baring,  Evelyn.  See  Cromer,  Lord,  36 

Bar- Lev  Line,  72,  299,  300 

Bayakbah,  21 

Baybars  I,  4,  24 

Baz,  Usamah  al,  240,  282 

beduins,  27,110,111,112-13;  in  armed 
forces,  311;  endogamous  marriage 
among,  126;  settled,  119;  shayhks,  119 

Begin,  Menachem,  83,  84 

Beijing,  xxxi 

Beirut,  30 

Ben-Gurion,  David,  54,  63 

Berbers,  110-11 

beys.  See  Mamluk  beys 

Bible,  143 

Bir  al  Jifjafah,  299 

birth,  126,  127 

Black  Book  (Ubayd),  52 

Black  Saturday,  55-56 

Blue  Nile,  96,  99 

Bombay,  31 

borrowing  (see  also  foreign  debt),  218-20; 
from  Arab  oil-producing  states,  219; 
government,  174,  175;  from  OECD 
countries,  219;  private-sector,  174-75; 
public-sector,  174 

bourgeoisie:  increasing  power  of,  250-51; 
in  infitah,  248,  249-50,  267-68;  under 
Mubarak,  251;  under  Nasser,  229;  un- 
der Sadat,  233-35,  267 

Brazil,  329 

Brezhnev,  Leonid,  77 

Britain,  30;  aid  sought  from,  61;  assets 
of,  nationalized,  64;  attempt  by,  to  de- 
stroy the  Wafd,  49;  concerns  of,  about 
army  officers,  40;  concerns  of,  about 
Muhammad  Ali,  30;  control  by,  of 
Sudan,  50-51;  control  by,  of  Suez 
Canal,  4,  50,  295;  control  of  reserves, 
221 ;  defeat  of  Germans  at  Al  Alamayn, 
295;  Egypt  declared  protectorate  of,  43; 
evacuation  of,  59,  283;  guerrilla  war 
against,  55;  imperialism,  74;  import  of 
Egyptian  cotton  to,  32;  importance  of 
cotton  to,  44;  importance  of  Egypt  to, 
in  World  War  II,  52;  independence 
granted  to  Egypt  by,  xxiii,  295;  in- 
fluence in  Istanbul,  42;  investment  by, 
4;  irrigation  system  expanded  by,  194; 
joint  naval  exercises  with,  314;  joint 
ventures  with,  329;  as  member  of  Bagh- 
dad Pact,  60;  military  credits  from, 


324;  military  materiel  from,  310,  314, 
333;  military  training  of  Egyptians  in, 
319;  offer  of  loan  for  Aswan  High  Dam, 
62,  194;  policy  toward  Ottoman  Em- 
pire, 30;  power  of,  49,  52;  purge  by, 
of  Copts  from  bureaucracy,  142;  reac- 
tion to  takeover  of  Suez  Canal,  62-63; 
role  in  Tripartite  Invasion,  xxiv,  4, 
63-64,  296-97;  as  shareholder  in  Suez 
Canal  Company,  37;  stationed  in  Egypt 
in  World  War  I,  46;  tariff  restrictions 
on  Egypt,  157;  trade  with,  207,  209; 
trade  policy,  44;  treaty  with,  desired  by 
Wafd,  50;  war  declared  on,  by  Urabi, 
40 

British  armed  forces:  bombardment  of 
Alexandria  by,  40;  Egyptians  in,  in 
World  War  II,  295;  revolt  against,  55; 
withdrawal  of,  from  Suez  Canal  base, 
60 

British  occupation,  4,  42-46,  294,  295; 
balance  of  power  in,  49;  conscription 
under,  295;  demonstrations  against,  47, 
48-49,  51,  57,  295;  economy  under, 
43-46,  165;  education  under,  143; 
Egyptian  army  disbanded  under,  295; 
police  force  modified  under,  337;  teach- 
ing under,  147;  and  World  War  I,  46 

Brotherhood.  See  Muslim  Brotherhood 

budget:  armed  forces  in,  171;  deficit, 
172-73;  government  control  over,  172; 
subsidies  in,  171 

bureaucracy  (see  also  employment,  govern- 
ment), 251-53;  as  career  for  ruling 
class,  113-14;  under  Ismail,  37;  under 
Nasser,  252;  parliament's  intercession 
with,  257;  of  president,  232;  role  of,  in 
government,  229;  under  Sadat,  252 

bureaucrats,  115 

Bur  Safajah,  164;  naval  base  in,  313 

Bur  Said.  See  Port  Said 

Bush,  George,  xxvii 

business:  interest  groups  of,  263-64 

Businessmen's  Association,  263 

Byzantine  army,  20 

Byzantine  Empire,  17,  24;  Christianity  as 
official  religion  in,  17;  control  of  Egypt 
by,  15;  Ottoman  conquest  of,  25;  perse- 
cution of  Coptic  Church  by,  18;  reli- 
gious conflict  in,  17 

cabinet:  decree  power  of,  256;  Free 
Officers  in,  236;  intraelite  politics  in, 
236;  military  as  source  of,  241;  under 


401 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Mubarak,  241;  under  Nasser,  236; 
opinion  groups  in,  236;  oversight  by, 
of  fiscal  reform,  37-38;  role  of,  236, 
237;  under  Sadat,  241;  as  second-rank 
elite,  240-41;  split  in,  237 


Caesar,  Julius,  15 

Cairo  (Al  Qahirah)  (see  also  Babylon),  26, 
40,  57,  60,  65,  73,  99,  100,  115,  152, 
305,  340;  airport,  163;  air  service  to, 
163-64;  Arab  summit  meetings  in,  68; 
Armenians  in,  110;  Black  Death  in, 
106;  blackouts  in,  160;  Black  Saturday 
in,  55-56;  building  of,  9;  Bulaq  quar- 
ter, 108;  conquered  by  Amr,  134; 
courts  in,  259;  crime  in,  345;  decline 
of,  107;  demonstrations  in,  47,  49,  54, 
70;  elite  in,  113;  establishment  of,  as 
capital,  4;  etymology  of,  106;  food  ri- 
ots in,  118;  free  zone  near,  218;  French 
invasion  of,  27;  governorate  of,  95;  as 
great  city  under  Mamluks,  24;  Greeks 
in,  110;  highway  system  in,  163;  his- 
tory of,  105-7;  impact  of  post-World 
War  II  urbanization  on,  94;  industry 
in,  205;  infant  mortality  in,  150; 
minorities  in,  110;  Nubians  in,  111; 
population  of,  105,  107;  precipitation 
in,  103;  reason  for  importance  of,  106; 
revival  of,  107;  riots  in,  27,  214,  223, 
304;  telephone  system,  165;  television 
station,  261;  as  trade  center,  35,  106; 
troops  stationed  in,  307 

Cairo,  Greater,  108,  118;  population  of, 
105 

Cairo,  Old  (Al  Fustat),  20 
Cairo  Metro,  163 

Cairo  University,  xxxv,  108;  demonstra- 
tions in,  following  June  1967  War,  70 
Caisse  de  la  Dette  Publique,  37 
Cambyses,  13 

Camp  David  Accords,  85,  166,  287,  331; 
impact  of,  on  defense  spending,  322; 
impact  of,  on  economy,  218;  impact  of, 
on  Israeli  power,  287;  impact  of,  on 
military,  325;  international  reaction  to, 
74;  opposition  to,  84;  signing  of,  xxiv, 
4-5,  83 

Camp  David  talks,  282,  286 

Canada,  xxvii 

canals,  160,  164 


Cape  of  Good  Hope,  31,  107 

capital  account  balance,  210 

capital  grants:  from  Eastern  Europe,  216; 

after  October  1973  War,  217 
capitalism,  243 

capitulations,  35,  50,  258;  end  of,  51 
Carter,  Jimmy,  xxiv,  83 
Casablanca,  Arab  summit  meetings  in,  68 
Cassander  of  Macedonia,  14 
Catholic  Church,  143 
Cave,  Steven,  37 

cease-fire:  negotiations  toward  perma- 
nent, 79 

Center  for  Political  and  Strategic  Studies, 
282 

Central  Auditing  Agency,  237 
Central  Bank,  xxvi,  173,  250;  exchange 
rate,  170 

Central   Committee   (Arab  Socialist 

Union),  xxix,  258 
Central  Intelligence,  341 
Central  Powers,  43 

Central  Security  Forces  (CSF),  278,  338, 
340,  341;  conscripts  in,  340;  riots  by, 
xxxiv,  279,  294,  304,  333,  336,  340, 
341 

Ceylon,  42 

Chamber  of  Commerce,  263,  264 

Cheetham,  Milne,  48 

chemical  industry,  203,  205 

chemical  weapons,  330 

Cheney,  Richard  B.,  xxxiii 

chiefs  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces,  306 

China,  People's  Republic  of:  military 
materiel  from,  311,  313,  314,  329,  333; 
recognized  by  Egypt,  62 

Christianity,  131,  134;  great  schism  be- 
tween Byzantine  and  Egyptian,  17-18, 
141 ;  persecution  of,  in  Roman  Empire, 
17;  spread  of,  in  Roman  Empire,  16 

Christian  minorities  (see  also  under  individu- 
al denominations),  18,  130,  143;  attacks 
on,  by  Muslims,  xxv 

Christian  School  of  Alexandria,  17 

Churchill,  Winston,  53 

Circassians  (see  also  under  Turco-Circas- 
sians),  24 

cities,  114 

civil  liberties:  defended  by  lawyers'  syn- 
dicate, 265;  freedom  of  religion,  130; 
freedom  of  political  expression,  267,  304, 
333;  freedom  of  the  press,  262,  267;  un- 
der Nasser,  260;  under  Sadat,  260 


402 


Index 


civil  service,  252 

class  differentiation,  120 

Cleopatra,  14-15 

climate,  102-4,  188;  precipitation,  103; 
seasons,  102-3,  188;  temperatures,  103 

clover,  189-90 

coal,  xxvi,  197,  199 

Coast  Guard,  313;  role  of,  314 

coercion:  agents  of,  278-79;  examples  of, 
278;  under  Mubarak,  278;  under  Nas- 
ser, 278;  under  Sadat,  278 

Cohen,  Geula,  74 

Cold  War,  53,  59 

Colossi  of  Memnon,  12 

Command  and  General  Staff  College 
(Army  Staff  College),  318-19 

commanders  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces, 
306 

commission  of  inquiry,  37-38 

Committee  of  the  Free  Officers'  Move- 
ment, 55-56 

communications:  improvement  of,  under 
Ismail,  36-37;  systems,  update  of,  xxvi 

Communist  Party  of  Egypt  (CPE),  xxxiv, 
58;  formed,  331;  membership,  337; 
outlawed,  61,  336 

communists,  81,  87;  criticism  of  Nasser 
by,  60;  detention  of,  in  concentration 
camps,  55;  factions  of,  336-37;  under 
Nasser,  336 

conscription:  active  duty,  320;  under  Brit- 
ish, 295;  draft  age,  320;  draft  registra- 
tion for,  320;  exemptions  for,  320; 
mandated  by  Constitution,  305,  319- 
20;  options  in,  for  national  service,  320; 
of  peasants  by  British,  295 

conscripts,  xxxiii,  279;  conditions  of,  321, 
340;  illiteracy  among,  311;  under  Mu- 
hammad Ali,  294;  number  of,  306,  313 

Conservative  Party  (British),  53 

Constantine  I  (Emperor),  17,  141 

Constantinople  (see  also  Istanbul),  17,  294; 
patriarchate  of,  17 

constitution  of  1964,  67;  goals  of,  67 

Constitution  of  1971,  xxiv;  armed  forces 
under,  305,  319;  freedom  of  religion 
under,  130;  interpretation  of,  260;  le- 
gal system  under,  259;  National 
Defense  Council  under,  306;  political 
system  under,  xxviii,  230;  president  un- 
der, 230;  provisions  of,  80;  as  source 
of  legitimacy,  230 

Consultative  Council,  xxxii,  255,  258;  de- 


fined, xxix 

consumer  price  index,  175,  178 

Coptic  Church,  140-43;  founded  by  Saint 
Mark,  141;  great  schism  of,  with  Byz- 
antine church,  17-18;  hierarchy  of, 
141;  persecution  of,  by  Byzantium,  18; 
pope,  141,  142-43 

Copts,  130,  193;  Arabization  of,  3, 
141-42;  attacks  on,  by  Muslims,  xxv, 
141,  335;  in  bureaucracy,  142;  conver- 
sion of,  to  Islam,  141;  etymology  of,  16, 
141;  number  of,  141;  in  parliament, 
255;  purged  from  bureaucracy,  142; 
rural,  142;  taxation  of,  141;  treatment 
of,  by  Arab  conquerors,  20,  134,  141; 
urban,  142 

corn:  consumption  of,  190;  cropping  pat- 
terns of,  194;  imports,  193;  subsidies, 
190;  yield,  190 

Corrective  Revolution,  76-77 

cotton:  crop  area  of,  189;  decline  in  ex- 
ports of,  181;  decline  in  price  of,  157; 
decline  in  yields  of,  158;  dependence 
on,  37,  43,  157;  diversification  from, 
xxv,  75;  effect  of  American  Civil  War 
on,  32,  33,  180;  exchange  rate  for,  223; 
export  of,  32,  204;  farming  patterns  of, 
192;  government  procurement  quotas 
for,  187,  189,  207;  growth  of,  157;  im- 
portance of,  to  British,  44;  infrastruc- 
ture for,  36;  introduction  of,  by 
Muhammad  Ali,  xxiii,  157,  180,  188; 
monopolization  of  export  of,  by  Euro- 
peans, 35;  pesticides  for,  197;  revenue 
from,  109;  revenue  from,  repatriated, 
157;  yields,  189 

Council  of  Chalcedon,  17,  141 

Council  of  Ministers,  231,  252;  rejection 
of,  under  Ismail,  38-39;  role  of,  236 

Council  of  Nicea,  17 

Council  of  State,  259 

Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices, 
343,  347 

coup  plots,  76 

Court  of  Cassation,  344 

Court  of  Ethics,  344 

courts:  basis  of,  342;  citizens'  rights 
defended  by,  260;  consular,  258;  court 
of  appeals,  259;  Court  of  Cassation, 
259;  district  tribunals,  259;  exception- 
al, 259;  independence  of,  260;  military, 
344;  mixed,  51,  258;  religious,  258;  role 
of,  260;  Supreme  Constitutional  Court, 


403 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


260;  Supreme  State  Security  Court, 

259;  treatment  of  accused,  343;  tribunal 

of  first  instance,  259 
CPE.  See  Communist  Party  of  Egypt 
Crecelius,  Daniel,  25 
credit:  growth  of,  174 
creditors:  Arab  countries,  221;  Britain, 

221;  largest,  221;  OECD  countries, 

221;  pressure  from,  222 
criminal  code:  based  on,  342;  sharia  as, 

342 

Criminal  Procedure  Code  of  1950,  342 
Cromer,  Lord,  36,  44;  policies  of,  43 
crop  areas:  for  cotton,  189;  government 

regulation  of,  188 
cropping  patterns,  192;  shift  in,  194 
crop  procurement  quotas,  187;  for  cotton, 

187,  189;  impact  of,  187-88 
crop  rotation,  188 
crop  yields,  192 
crusaders,  22 

CSF.  See  Central  Security  Forces 
current  account  balance,  216;  exogenous 

resources,  210 
Cyrus  the  Great,  13 
Czechoslovakia:  Nasser's  arms  agreement 

with,  61-62,  194 


Damanhur,  47,  108 
Damascus,  20,  65,  68 
Damascus  Declaration  (1990),  xxxii 
Damietta  (Dumyat),  100,  164,  205 
Darius  II,  13 

Daud,  Diya  Muhammad,  71 

Day  of  Struggle  (Yawm  al  Jihad),  46 

Dayr  al  Bahri,  11 

death  rate,  148 

Declaration  of  the  Establishment  of  the 
State  of  Israel,  54 

Defense,  Ministry  of:  duties  of,  306;  in- 
telligence service,  341 ;  military  officers 
in,  303 

defense  industry,  xxxiv,  328-31 
defense  minister,  306 
defense  spending,  xxxiv,  173,  322-24 
Democratic   Movement   for  National 

Liberation,  58 
Democratic  Unionist  Party,  xxix 
democratization:    as    legitimizer  of 

Mubarak,  243-44 
de-Nasserization  campaign,  242,  248,  257 
Dendera,  3,  15 


Description  de  VEgypte,  28 
desertification,  186 

development,  166;  agriculture  as  basis  for, 
29;  economic,  xxv;  impact  of  population 
growth  on,  105;  industrial,  29-30;  role 
of  army  in,  293 

development  planning,  168-69;  food  and, 
181;  impact  on,  of  skilled  labor  short- 
age, 178 

dhikr,  137 

dhimmis,  135 

Dinshawi  Incident,  44-45 

Diocletian  (Emperor):  persecution  of 
Christians  by,  17;  reign  of,  16-17 

diplomatic  relations,  282 

disease,  major  endemic,  150 

district  commanders,  307 

divorce,  127-29 

Djoser  (Pharaoh),  9 

drainage,  195 

Dulles,  John  Foster,  61-63 

Dumyat.  See  Damietta 

dynasties:  Eighteenth,  10;  Fifth,  9; 
Fourth,  8,  9;  Seventeenth,  10;  Sixth, 
8,  9;  Third,  8,  9;  Thirtieth,  13;  Thirty- 
first,  13;  Twelfth,  8,  9;  Twentieth,  11; 
Twenty-eighth,  13;  Twenty-fifth,  11; 
Twenty-first,  11;  Twenty-fourth,  11; 
Twenty-ninth,  13;  Twenty- second,  11; 
Twenty- seventh,  13;  Twenty- sixth,  13; 
Twenty-third,  11 

Early  Dynastic  Period,  7 

Eastern  Desert  (Arabian  Desert),  96, 

101-2;  area  of,  101-2;  beduins  in,  110, 

112;  oil  in,  102,  198 
Eastern  Rite  Church,  143 
East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 

Republic 

economic  problems:  caused  by  bureau- 
cracy, 253;  after  June  1967  War,  77; 
under  Mubarak,  xxvi-xxvii;  under 
Nasser,  76;  under  Sadat,  85 

economic  restructuring,  222-23;  under 
Nasser,  166 

economic  structure:  diversification  of,  159 

economy:  agricultural  sector,  180;  anal- 
ysis of  growth,  158;  balanced  growth 
model  for,  168;  under  British,  165; 
government  control  of,  165,  168,  223; 
growth  of,  in  nineteenth  century,  157; 
hidden,  213;  informal,   158;  under 


404 


Index 


Muhammad  Ali,  165;  under  Nasser, 
166;  Third  World  dependency  syn- 
drome, 157 

Eden,  Anthony,  53,  59,  60,  62-63 

Edfu  (Idfu),  3,  15 

Edict  of  Milan,  17 

education:  accessibility  of,  144;  in  Early 
Dynastic  Period,  7;  of  elite,  144;  enroll- 
ment rates,  144,  146,  147;  of  girls,  128, 
146;  general  curriculum,  146;  goals  for, 
abandoned,  144;  government  spending 
on,  144;  highest  level  attained,  144;  im- 
portance of  access  to,  93;  increased  op- 
portunities for,  94,  144;  primary  cycle, 
146;  reform  of,  under  Nasser,  58,  75; 
secondary  cycle,  146;  segregation  in, 
128,  139;  subsidies  for,  147,  169;  tech- 
nical curriculum,  146;  training  insti- 
tutes, 146,  147;  of  women,  144 

education,  higher,  123;  desire  for,  148; 
enrollment,  147;  expansion  of,  147;  ex- 
ternal students,  147-48;  spending  on, 
147;  of  women,  144,  147 

Education,  Ministry  of,  146;  budget  of, 
144 

education,  public:  under  Ismail,  37 

education,  secular  (see  also  under  type  of 
school),  116;  emergence  of,  34-35;  es- 
tablished by  Muhammad  Ali,  143;  ex- 
panded after  1952  Revolution,  xxv, 
116;  influence  of,  34-35 

education,  traditional,  143 

effendiyah:  rise  of,  35 

efficiency:  in  banking,  xxvi;  in  public  sec- 
tor, xx  vi 

EGPC .  See  Egyptian  General  Petroleum 
Company 

EgyptAir,  163-64,  215 

Egypt  Consultative  Group,  xxviii 

Egyptian-American  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce, 263 

Egyptian  Arab  Socialist  Organization, 
81 

Egyptian  Army  Officers  Club,  56 
Egyptian  Diplomatic  Institute,  282 
Egyptian  Expeditionary  Force,  46 
Egyptian  Feminist  Union,  47 
Egyptian  General  Petroleum  Company 

(EGPC),  198 
Egyptian-Israeli  peace  treaty,  xxiv,  xxvi, 
xxxiii,  xxxiv,  76,  214;  as  cause  of 
Egypt's  isolation,  210,  242;  Egyptian 
voters'  approval  of,  85;  terms  of,  302 


Egyptian  Organization  for  Human 
Rights,  348 

Egyptian  Railways:  lines  of,  163;  pas- 
senger service,  31,  163 

Eisenhower,  Dwight  D.,  64 

Elat,  64,  163,  313 

elections,  271-75 

Electoral  Law  of  1972;  amendments  to, 
xxix 

Electoral  Law  of  1984,  xxix,  260,  272,  274 

electrical  goods,  205 

electricity:  capacity,  199;  generation  of, 

xxvi,  197;  inadequacies  of  system,  160; 

subsidies  for,  170 
elite:  core,  267;  factions,  236-37;  infitah 

and,  248;  under  Mubarak,  235,  240, 

241;   under  Nasser,   232-33,  237; 

recruitment  of,  268;  under  Sadat,  233, 

238,  241 

elite,  prerevolutionary:  change  in  status 
of,  115;  education  for,  144;  effect  of  in- 
fitah on,  115;  members  of,  113;  under 
Nasser,  229;  as  new  entrepreneurial 
class,  115-16;  resentment  of,  114;  un- 
der Sadat,  230 

elite,  postrevolutionary,  115 

elite,  rivalries  among:  economic,  247-48; 
over  implementation  of  infitah,  248-49; 
settlement  of,  237 

elite,  rural,  119 

elite,  Turco-Circassian,  32 

elite  ideology,  267;  under  Mubarak,  242; 
under  Nasser,  241-42;  under  Sadat, 
242 

Emergency  Law  (1958),  343-44 
emigration,  196;  destinations  for,  109;  by 

professionals,  109 
employment:  creation  of,  197;  distribu- 
tion, 175-76;  fringe  benefits,  179;  in 
manufacturing,  203;  opportunities,  75, 
196 

employment,  government,  167;  as  goal  of 
educated,  35;  guarantee  of,  to  univer- 
sity graduates,  58,  116,  159,  205,  252; 
number  of  persons  in,  35;  quotas  in, 
116-17;  reform  of,  94;  stagnation  of, 
176;  underemployment  in,  178;  wages 
in,  179;  waiting  lists  for,  117 

energy  (see  also  under  individual  sources), 
xxvi,  197-200;  growth  in,  159;  subsi- 
dies, 169,  170 

engineering,  205 

Era  of  Martyrs,  17 


405 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Eshkol,  Levi,  68 

Ethiopia,  5,  11,  96,  99,  199 

ethnic  groups,  110 

Euphrates  River,  10,  24,  279 

Europe,  164;  Cairo  as  transshipment 
point  for,  106;  commercial  relations  of, 
with  Fatimids,  22;  effect  of  French  oc- 
cupation of  Egypt  on,  28;  reaction  of, 
to  Camp  David  Accords,  74;  telephone 
service  to,  165 

Europe,  Eastern,  67;  as  part  of  Ottoman 
Empire,  25;  reaction  of,  to  takeover  of 
Suez  Canal,  63;  ties  of,  with  Egypt, 
xxiii;  trade  with,  209 

European  Economic  Community,  xxvii 

Europeans:  control  of  Egypt  by,  294-95; 
working  in  Egypt,  109-10 

exchange  rate,  166,  170-71;  devaluation 
and  unification  of,  xxvi;  under  Mu- 
hammad Ali,  170;  multiple-rate  sys- 
tem, 170-71,  207,  223;  setting  of,  168 

expenditures:  decline  of,  172-73 

exports,  204,  207-8 

export  trade:  under  Ayyubids,  23;  ex- 
change rate  for,  171 


Fahmi,  Abd  al  Aziz,  46,  238 
Fahmi,  Ali,  39;  exile  of,  40 
Faisal  (King),  69,  71,  78 
Falluja,  54 
family,  126 

family  planning,  105,  150 

famine,  26 

Faqi,  Mustafa,  240 

Faruk,  49,  56,  61;  ascension  of,  50;  decla- 
ration of  war  against  Axis,  296;  forced 
to  abdicate,  56,  296;  proclaimed  king, 
55;  overthrow  of,  4 

Fatima,  21,  134 

Fatimid  caliphate;  abolition  of,  22 
Fatimid  dynasty,  21-22;  as  conquerors, 

xxiii,  21,  135;  spread  of  Islam  under, 

xxiii 

Fawzi,  Muhammad,  70,  71,  76,  245 
Feast  of  Sacrifice  (Id  al  Adha),  86 
Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many): joint  ventures  with,  328;  mili- 
tary credits  from,  324;  military  materiel 
from,  310,  329,  333 
Federation  of  Arab  Republics,  282 
Federation  of  Industries,  264 


fellahin.  See  peasants 

feudal  system:  origins  of,  9 

Finance,  Ministry  of,  38,  50;  duties  of, 
171-72 

financial  sector,  157 

Five- Year  Plan,  First  (1960-65),  168; 
land  reclamation  under,  184 

Five-Year  Plan,  First  (1982-86),  169;  fo- 
cus of,  on  infrastructure,  178;  manufac- 
turing investment  under,  206;  private 
investment  under,  168;  tile  drainage  in, 
195 

Five-Year  Plan,  Second  (1987-91):  allo- 
cations for  infrastructure  in,  160;  indus- 
trialization under,   204;  investment 
under,  167;  manufacturing  investment 
under,  206;  manufacturing  under,  202; 
land  reclamation  under,  185;  natural 
gas  under,  199;  objectives  of,  169 
food:  aid,  181,  208;  consumption,  182; 
distribution,  182;  external  sources  of, 
179,  209;  riots,  118,  249,  278,  279,  304, 
334,  336;  self-sufficiency  in,  180;  short- 
ages, 182;  subsidies,  169,  182,  186,  187 
food  gap,  180-82;  wheat  gap,  181,  208-9 
food  pricing  policy,  186-88 
food  processing,  204,  205,  206 
Foreign  Affairs,  Ministry  of,  282 
foreign  currency:  control  of,  250 
foreign  debt:  forgiveness  of  Egypt's,  xxvii; 
growth  of,  173,  221;  under  Muham- 
mad Ali,  220-21;  to  Paris  Club,  xxvi, 
xxviii;  ratio  of,  to  exports  and  GDP, 
221;  rescheduling  of,  xxvi,  220,  222, 
223,  224,  332;  restructuring  of,  220,  21; 
servicing  obligation,  324 
foreign  exchange,  206,  216;  importance  of 
cotton  for,  189;  income,  172,  210;  oil 
as  generator  of,  211;  scarcity  of,  209; 
sources  of,  xxvi;  Suez  Canal  as  source 
of,  215 

foreign  policy:  Arab-Islamic  character 
and,  280;  decision  making,  281-82;  de- 
terminants of,  279-81 ;  development  of, 
282-89;  economic  benefits  of,  283; 
geopolitics  and,  279-80;  desire  for  in- 
dependence and,  281,  287;  toward  Is- 
rael, 279;  under  Mubarak,  xxx,  235 

foreign  trade,  207-8;  government  control 
of,  166,  207;  with  industrialized  coun- 
tries, 210;  orientation  of,  35,  209 

Framework  for  Peace  in  the  Middle  East, 
83;  described,  74 


406 


Index 


Framework  for  the  Conclusion  of  a  Peace 
Treaty  between  Israel  and  Egypt,  83 

France,  23,  30,  42;  aid  sought  from,  61; 
assets  of,  nationalized,  64;  commercial 
importance  of  Egypt  to,  27,  30;  con- 
cerns of,  about  army  officers,  40; 
cooperation  of,  in  building  Cairo 
Metro,  163;  intervention  of,  in  fiscal  re- 
form, 37-38;  invasion  by,  26;  joint 
naval  exercises  with,  314;  military 
credits  from,  324;  military  materiel 
from,  310,  312,  329,  333;  military 
training  of  Egyptians  in,  319;  Muham- 
mad Ali's  ties  to,  30;  reaction  of,  to 
takeover  of  Suez  Canal,  62-63;  role  of, 
in  Tripartite  Invasion,  xxiv,  4,  63-64, 
296-97;  strategic  importance  of  Egypt 
to,  27,  30 

free  market  rate,  171 

Free  Officers,  60,  62,  70,  74,  76,  81,  86, 
113,  158,  231,  238,  282;  agricultural  re- 
form by,  180;  attrition  among,  237; 
backgrounds  of,  57-58,  93;  as  cabinet 
ministers,  236;  deradicalized,  244;  edu- 
cation opportunities  expanded  by,  116; 
elections  under,  271;  evacuation  of  Brit- 
ish by,  59;  ideology  of,  335;  land  re- 
form under,  121 ;  organized  by  Nasser, 
55;  public  finance  under,  171;  purge  of, 
by  Sadat,  245;  revolution  of,  xxiii,  4, 
56,  244,  296;  role  of,  233;  rule  of,  229 

free-trade  system,  207 

French  invasion,  26-27,  108;  scientific 
mission  in,  26,  28 

French  occupation,  26-28,  294;  police  un- 
der, 337 

Frontier  Corps,  311 

Fuad,  Ahmad  (Sultan),  49 

Fuad  I,  49;  death  of,  50 


Gamasi,  Abdul  Ghani  al,  238,  246 
gas,  natural,  xxvi,  197;  output,  198-99 
Gaza  Strip,  54,  84,  95,  102;  attack  on 
Egyptian  outposts  in,  61;  capture  of,  by 
Israelis,  69,  296;  loss  of,  xxiv 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
GDSSI.  See  General  Directorate  for  State 

Security  Investigations 
General  Authority  for  Investment  and 

Free  Zones,  218 
General  Directorate  for  State  Security  In- 
vestigations (GDSSI),  278;  ineffective- 


ness of,  341;  informants,  341-42; 
repression  by,  341-42 

geography:  boundaries,  95 

German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many), 331 

Germany:  influence  of,  in  Istanbul,  42 

Ghali,  Butrus  Butrus,  282 

Giddi  Pass,  299,  300 

Giza  (Al  Jizah),  9;  described,  108;  indus- 
try in,  205;  population  of,  105,  108; 
pyramids  of,  108 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 

Golan  Heights,  69 

Gordon,  Charles,  43 

Gorst,  Sir  John  Eldon:  policies  of,  43 

Goschen-Joubert  Mission,  37 

government:  borrowing,  174,  175;  cor- 
ruption in,  344;  as  debtor,  221;  de- 
mands for  participation  in,  229;  history 
of  authoritarianism  in,  229;  legitima- 
cy of,  229;  shake-up  in,  following  June 
1967  War,  70;  struggle  for  control  of, 
58 

government,  local,  253-54 

governorates,  95-96,  253,  339 

grain:  Egypt  as  supplier  of,  105;  for 
Arabs,  20;  for  France,  27;  for  Ptole- 
mies, 14;  for  Rome,  15,  16;  trade,  na- 
tionalization of,  186 

grants  in  aid,  166 

Great  Bitter  Lake,  300 

Great  Depression,  157;  industrialization 
during,  202 

Great  Pyramid,  9 

Great  Sand  Sea,  101 

Greece,  294 

Greek:  as  official  language  of  Egypt,  14; 
war  for  independence,  30 

Greek  Orthodox  Church,  143 

Greeks,  13,  110,  157;  as  conquerors, 
xxiii,  294;  emigration  of,  67;  influence 
of,  on  Egyptian  culture,  14-15 

greenhouses,  197 

Green  Party,  xxix 

Green  Shirts,  52 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  213;  com- 
position of,  166,  172;  growth  of,  158, 
159,  168;  industrial  sector's  share  of, 
197 

gross  national  product  (GNP):  increase 

in,  159;  stagnation  in,  158 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council,  xxxii,  303 
Gulf  of  Aqaba,  64,  69,  95,  102,  296,  313 


407 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


Gulf  of  Suez,  95,  102,  199;  oil  fields,  198 
Gulf  of  Suez  Petroleum  Company  (Gup- 
co),  198 

Gupco.   See  Gulf  of  Suez  Petroleum 
Company 


hadith,  131 
hajj,  133 
hajji,  133 

Hamid,  Abdul,  40,  42 

Hatshepsut  (Queen),  11 

health,  xxv,  150-52;  per  capita  public 

spending  on,  148 
Health,  Ministry  of,  150 
Hegira  (hijra),  131 

Heikal,  Mohamed  Hassanain,  85,  237, 
261 

Heliopolis,  20,  106,  312 
Heliopolis  Company  for  Chemical  Indus- 
tries, 329 
Herodotus,  101 

High  Arab  Revolutionary  Command,  66 
Higher  War  College,  319 
Hijaz,  21;  Muhammad  Ali  as  governor 
of,  28 

Hijazi,  Abdul  Aziz,  238,  248 

hijra  (Hegira),  131 

Hilal,  Ahmad  Izz  ad  Din,  238 

Hilmi,  Abd  al  Al,  39,  40 

Hittites,  10 

honor  (ird),  127-28 

Horus,  7 

housing:  demand  for  moderately  priced, 
107;  government-built,  58-59;  inade- 
quacy of,  160 

Housing  Committee,  257,  264 

Hudaibi,  Mahmud  al,  270 

Hulagu  Khan,  24 

Hulwan,  70,  105 

Hulwan  Company  for  Machine  Tools, 
328 

Hulwan  Society  (see  also  National  Socie- 

ty),  39 
Husayn,  Ahmad,  51 
Husayn,  Kamal  ad  Din,  56,  237,  238 
Hussein  (King),  69,  73,  74 
Hyksos,  9,  10 

Ibn  Tulun  Mosque,  135 
Ibrahim,  31,  294 
Ibrahim,  Hasan,  56 


Ibrahim  Bey,  26,  27 

Id  al  Adha  (Feast  of  Sacrifice),  86,  133 

Idku,  100 

Ikhshidid  dynasty,  21 
Imbabah,  27 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
Imhotep,  9 

imports,  31,  208-9;  curtailed  by 
Mubarak,  86;  effect  of  European,  34, 
35,  44;  restrictions  on,  207,  216 

independence:  attempts  to  achieve,  4; 
conditions  of,  49;  declared  by  British, 
49,  295;  demands  for,  from  British,  46 

India,  27,  30,  42,  61,  135;  commercial  re- 
lations of,  with  Fatimids,  22;  Cairo  as 
transshipment  point  for,  106 

Indian  Ocean,  22,  279 

industrial  development:  stymied  by  Brit- 
ish, 44 

industrial  free  zones,  xxvi 

industrialization:  beginnings  of,  157;  free 
trade  as  obstacle  to,  207;  government 
control  of,  207;  import- substitution, 
202,  204;  as  priority  under  Nasser,  202 

industrial  output,  202 

industrial  sector  (see  also  under  individual  in- 
dustries), xxv;  decline  of,  32;  develop- 
ment of,  44;  necessity  of  reform  in,  197; 
performance  of,  197;  stagnation  in, 
158;  subsidized  energy  rates  for, 
169-70 

industry:  energy  consumption  by,  199; 
examples  of,  34;  under  Fatimids,  22; 
foreign  ownership  of,  157;  impact  of 
import  trends  on,  208;  location  of,  205; 
nationalization  of,  202;  private  sector, 
205;  share  of  GDP,  159;  small-scale, 
205-6 

Industry,  Ministry  of,  203,  265 
infant  mortality,  104,  123,  148;  and  edu- 
cation of  women,  151;  rates,  150 
infitah,  82,  166,  167,  207,  212,  229,  240, 
241,  247;  agriculture  under,  187;  bour- 
geoisie under,  248,  249-50,  267-68; 
business  view  of,  263-64;  defined,  xxiv; 
effect  of,  on  class  structure,  114,  115; 
effect  of,  on  employment,  xxv,  116, 
176;  and  elite,  115,  248-49;  exchange 
rate  under,  170;  goals  of,  248;  Hijazi 
charged  with  implementing,  248;  ine- 
quality under,  249,  289;  interest  groups 
under,  265;  Islamist  opposition  to,  276; 
and  lower  class,  118-19;  and  middle 


408 


Index 


class,  118-19;  under  Mubarak,  86, 
249,  250-51;  problems  with,  222;  pub- 
lic sector  under,  206,  253;  reform  of, 
249;  rejection  of,  269,  277;  results  of, 
166-67;  riots  against,  82;  stake  of  mili- 
tary in,  246;  and  upper  class,  119 
inflation,  xxvii,  175 

infrastructure:  for  cotton,  36;  expansion 
of,  under  Mubarak,  160;  expansion  of, 
under  Muhammad  Ali,  xxiii;  in  five- 
year  plans,  160,  178;  improvement  of, 
under  Ismail,  36-37;  improvement  of, 
by  military,  327;  military  production 
in,  327 

inland  waterways,  164 

Institute  for  Advanced  Police  Studies,  340 

intelligence  services,  341-42 

interest  groups,  262-65;  parties  of  pres- 
sure as,  274 

interest  rates,  175 

Interior,  Ministry  of,  xxx,  253,  268; 
agents  of  coercion  under,  278;  elections 
administered  by,  272;  military  officers 
in,  303;  penal  system  under,  347;  police 
under,  338,  339;  powers  of,  260;  rivalry 
with  army,  279;  role  of,  251 

intermediate  periods,  8,  9 

internal  security,  xxxiv,  xxxv,  334-42 

International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  330 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
xxvi,  212,  220;  conditions  imposed  by, 
xxviii,  222,  223,  224,  248;  exchange 
rate  fixed  with,  170,  171;  loan  from, 
xxvii-xxviii 

International  Red  Cross,  348 

Interpol,  345 

investment:  decline  in,  158;  domestic, 
167;  fixed,  167;  law,  draft,  218 

investment,  foreign,  167,  217-18;  by  Brit- 
ish, 4;  conditions  for,  76;  decline  in, 
168 

investment,  private-sector,  167-69 
investment  ratio,  fixed:  decline  of,  159 
Iran,  135,  303;  as  member  of  Baghdad 
Pact,  60 

Iran-Iraq  War,  87,  109,  212,  213,  303 
Iraq,  xxvii,  xxxii,  xxxiv,  18,  24,  280,  330; 
arms  sales  to,  303,  330;  defense  agree- 
ment with  Egypt,  69;  Egyptians  work- 
ing in,  109,  213,  214,  303;  Egypt's 
support  of  sanctions  against,  xxxii;  in- 
vasion of  Kuwait  by,  xxxi;  Israeli  raid 
on,  287;  and  Kuwait,  Mubarak's  medi- 


ation between,  xxxi;  as  member  of 
Arab  Cooperation  Council,  210;  as 
member  of  Baghdad  Pact,  60;  training 
in  Egypt  for  officers  from,  319;  oppo- 
nents of,  in  Persian  Gulf  war,  xxxi, 
xxxii;  Palestine  Liberation  Organiza- 
tion in,  68;  supporters  of,  in  Persian 
Gulf  war,  xxx,  xxxii 
ird  (honor),  127-28 

irrigation,  basin,  193-94,  229;  drip,  197; 
perennial,  193-94;  upgrade  of  system, 
180 

Isis,  7;  Roman  temple  to,  3,  15 
Iskenderun,  13 

Islam  (see  also  under  individual  sects),  130-40; 
choice  of  conversion  to,  20,  134;  con- 
version of  Egyptians  to,  xxiii,  135;  con- 
version of  Turks  to,  4,  23;  Egypt  as 
leader  of,  52;  polygyny  in,  128;  role  of, 
in  Egypt,  66,  135;  role  of,  in  National 
Party,  45 
Islam,  Ismaili  Shia,  21,  22,  22,  135 
Islam,  popular  (see  also  Islam,  Sufi), 
136-37 

Islam,  Shia,  21;  influence  of,  xxiii;  ori- 
gins of,  134 

Islam,  Sufi,  137;  increase  in,  after  June 
1967  War,  130 

Islam,  Sunni,  131;  origins  of,  134; 
Saladin's  return  of  Egypt  to,  22;  spread 
of,  xxiii;  Turks  as  preservers  of,  4 

Islambuli,  Khalid  al,  86 

Islamic  Alliance,  269,  274 

Islamic  associations  (Jamaat  al  Is- 
lamiyah),  139,  270;  in  higher  educa- 
tion, 139,  270,  276,  335;  ideology  of, 
335;  violence  by,  277,  341 

Islamic  Bank  for  Development:  contribu- 
tions to  Egypt  from,  xxviii 

Islamic  civilization,  Egypt  as  center  of, 
280 

Islamic  Conference  Organization,  87 

Islamic  Congress,  76 

Islamic  extremism,  334-36,  337,  344 

Islamic  investment  companies,  173,  174, 
277-78;  confrontation  of,  with  govern- 
ment, 174,  250 

Islamic  law.  See  sharia 

Islamic  mainstream:  Muslim  Brother- 
hood as,  277;  in  parliament,  277 

Islamic  revival  movement,  51,  136,  138, 
280;  destabilizing  potential,  276;  as 
force  in  elections,  274,  276;  gradual 


409 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


cooptation  by,  278;  June  1967  War  as 
main  cause  of,  130,  138;  opposition  of, 
to  infitah,  276 

Islamic  social  order,  139 

Islamist  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups),  94,  138-40,  287,  294;  control 
of,  336;  demand  for  application  of 
sharia,  276,  278;  focus  of,  140,  270-71; 
influence  of,  276;  members  of,  335;  op- 
position of,  to  personal  status  law,  129; 
periodicals  published  by,  262;  political 
activism,  249;  reaction  of,  to  Persian 
Gulf  war,  xxx;  use  of,  by  Sadat,  81, 
266,  276;  violence  by,  335-36;  safe- 
guards against,  304 

Islamists:  defined,  136;  factions  of,  270; 
goal  of,  270;  harassment  of  Copts  by, 
142-43,  276,  335;  influence  of,  in 
parliament,  255;  in  military,  246;  police 
harassment  of,  260;  in  professional  syn- 
dicates, 277;  repression  of,  267;  role  of, 
in  assassination  of  Sadat,  276,  294;  so- 
cial origins  of,  140;  in  Sudan,  303;  vic- 
tories of,  277 

Islamization,  xxxiii,  3 

Ismail  (Khedive),  33,  35-37,  39,  56;  edu- 
cation under,  35,  143;  urban  planning 
under,  107 

Ismail,  Ahmad  Abu,  248-49 

Ismail,  Nabawi,  238,  246 

Ismailiya  (Al  Ismailiyah),  55,  108,  300; 
courts  in,  259 

Isna,  99 

Israel,  5,  66,  71,  95,  102,  304,  330;  Arab 
fear  of  separate  peace  with,  73;  Arab 
resistance  to,  54;  and  Camp  David  Ac- 
cords, 166;  clashes  with  Syria  over  air 
space,  68;  invasion  of  Lebanon  by,  287; 
in  June  1967  War,  299;  military  aid 
from  United  States,  73,  78,  293;  Nas- 
ser's hostility  toward,  297;  peace  with, 
76,  83,  256,  265,  266,  269,  280,  304; 
plan  of,  to  divert  Jordan  River,  68; 
question  of,  for  Arab  states,  67-68;  re- 
jection of  Jarring  mission,  72;  rejection 
of  Sadat  peace  proposal,  77;  role  of,  in 
Tripartite  Invasion,  xxiv,  4,  63,  296- 
97;  Sadat's  desire  to  confront,  82; 
Sadat's  desire  for  peace  with,  77;  as 
security  threat,  279;  Sinai  occupied  by, 
64,  285,  299;  withdrawal  from  Sinai  by, 
80,  87,  248 

Israel  Defense  Forces,  xxx;  attack  by,  on 


Egyptian  forces  in  Gaza,  61;  destruc- 
tion of  As  Samu  by,  68 

Israeli-Egyptian  peace  negotiations,  77 

Israeli  Labor  Party,  xxx 

Issus,  battle  of,  13 

Istanbul  (see  also  Constantinople),  17,  30, 
39,  40,  42 

Isthmus  of  Suez,  103 

Italy,  23,  95,  295,  333;  joint  naval  exer- 
cises with,  314 

Ittihad  Party,  50 

Jabal  Katrinah.  See  Mount  Catherine 
Jamaat  al  Islamiyah.  See  Islamic  associ- 
ations 
Japan,  223 

Jarring,  Gunnar,  71,  72 
Jazirat  Filah.  See  Philae  Island 
Jerusalem,  84;  as  capital  of  Israel,  84; 
capture  of,  by  crusaders,  22;  crusaders 
driven  from,  22;  East,  xxx;  Old  City, 
54,  69;  Sadat's  1977  visit  to,  xxiv,  83, 
282;  world  reaction  to  Sadat's  visit  to, 
73 

Jews,  18,  130,  131,  134;  emigration  of,  67 
jihad  (holy  war),  138 
Jirja,  49 

joint  ventures,  in  banking,  218;  in  mili- 
tary production,  327,  328,  329,  330 

Jordan,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  68,  73,  74;  defense 
agreement  with  Egypt,  69;  Israeli  at- 
tack on,  69;  as  member  of  Arab  Co- 
operation Council,  210;  opposition  to 
United  Arab  Republic,  65-66 

Jordanian  civil  war,  73,  74 

Jordan  River,  68 

Juba,  96 

judges,  259 

judicial  system,  342-44 

judiciary:  citizens'  rights  defended  by, 
xxx;  independence  of,  under  Mubarak, 
xxx;  influence  of  president  over,  259 

Jumaa,  Sharawy,  76 

June  1967  War  (Six-Day  War),  xxiv,  64, 
66,  68-69,  114,  165,  297-99;  air  force 
destroyed  in,  312;  Arab  reaction  to  out- 
come of,  77;  costs  of,  16-58,  229; 
demonstrations  following,  70;  econom- 
ic problems  resulting  from,  166;  Egypt's 
losses  in,  69,  281,  299;  increase  in  reli- 
gious fervor  after,  130;  Israeli  occupa- 
tion of  Sinai  after,  64,  83,  102;  outbreak 


410 


Index 


of,  284;  ports  destroyed  in,  164;  rail 
lines  destroyed  in,  163;  role  of  navy  in, 
313;  and  Soviet  advisers,  331;  Suez 
Canal  closed  after,  212 
Justice,  Ministry  of,  259,  343 


Kaaba  shrine,  133 

Kafr  ad  Dawwar,  58,  108 

Kamil,  Mustafa,  44,  45,  46 

Karnak,  3,  12 

Kawm  Umbu,  111 

Khair  Bey,  25 

Khalil,  Mustafa,  237,  238 

khamsin  (sirocco),  103-4 

Khan  al  Khalili,  57 

Khartoum,  66,  71,  96,  99;  Mahdist  up- 
rising in,  43;  pro-Iraqi  demonstration 
in,  xxxiv 

Khatir,  Sulayman,  287 

Kheops,  9 

Khere-ohe,  106 

Khumarawayh,  21 

Khusraw  Pasha,  28 

kingdom,  8 

kinship,  124-27 

Kissinger,  Henry,  78,  79,  80,  282 
Kitchener,  Lord  Herbert,  43 
Kleber,  Jean-Baptiste,  27 
Korea,  Republic  of  (South  Korea),  223 
Kosygin,  Alexei,  78 
Kuraymar  power  station,  xxviii 
Kushites.  See  Ethiopians 
Kuwait,  xxvii,  xxx-xxxiii,  303;  arms  sales 
to,  330;  Egyptian  workers  in,  109 


labor:  market,  196;  migrants,  109;  migra- 
tion, 108,  123,  212;  reform  of,  58; 
rights,  260 

Labor  and  Camel  Transport  Corps,  46 

Labor  Party,  262 

Labour  government  (British),  53 

Lagos,  14 

Laiha  Wataniya,  39 

Lake  Nasser,  112,  199;  creation  of,  95, 
100,  194;  described,  99;  ferry  service 
on,  164;  silt  retained  in,  195 

Lake  Tana,  96 

Lake  Victoria,  96 

Lampson,  Miles,  50 

land:  distribution,  182;  privatization  of, 
32 


land  grants,  119 

landholding  elite,  33,  119;  size  of  hold- 
ings of,  120;  village  headmen  (umada) 
as,  33,  119,  254 

landlords,  absentee,  119,  121-22 

landowners,  large,  122;  agricultural 
mechanizaiton  by,  195 

landowners,  medium,  32,  122 

landowners,  small,  122 

land  reclamation,  180,  184-86;  by  mili- 
tary, 327 

land  redistribution  program,  115 

land  reform,  58,  67,  166,  180,  184;  effects 
of,  121,  253;  feddans  distributed,  183; 
stages  of,  121;  victims  of,  264 

Land  Survey  Department,  38 

land  tenure:  systems  of,  183 

Late  Dynastic  Period,  12-13 

Latin,  15 

Law  Number  43  (of  1974)  for  Arab  and 
Foreign  Capital  Investment  and  Free 
Zones,  173,  217-18,  254 
Law  of  Shame,  85,  265 
Law  on  Agrarian  Relations,  264 
League  of  Arab  States  (Arab  League), 
xxxi,  xxxiii,  60,  68,  86,  287;  resistance 
of,  to  partition  of  Palestine,  54 
Lebanon,  66,  68,  72;  Israeli  raids  into, 
83;  as  source  of  narcotics,  346;  tele- 
phone service  to,  165 
legal  system  (also  see  courts),  258 
Leon,  Edwin  de,  36 
Lesseps,  Ferdinand  de,  31-32 
Liberal  Constitutionalist  Party,  49-50,  52 
Liberal  Party,  262,  269,  273,  274;  absten- 
tion of,  from  1990  elections,  xxix-xxx 
Liberation  Rally,  59 
Libya,  xxx,  10,  17,  95,  282;  cooperation 
agreements  of,  with  Egypt,  xxxi;  Egyp- 
tian concerns  about,  302;  Egyptian 
workers  in,  109,  118;  Red  Sea  mined 
by,  314;  refugees  from,  110;  as  support- 
er of  Iraq  in  Persian  Gulf  war,  xxxii; 
telephone  service  to,  165;  troops  sta- 
tioned on  border  with,  307;  United 
States  air  raid  on,  214 
Libyan  Desert.  See  Western  Desert 
life  expectancy,  104,  148 
Likud,  xxx 

Liquidation,  Law  of  (1880),  39 
literacy  rates,  123;  in  army,  311 ;  of  popu- 
lation, 144 
livestock,  193 


411 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


London:  Mubarak's  1990  visit  to,  xxxi; 
Wafd  mission  to,  46 

lower  class:  divorce  among,  129;  employ- 
ment, 117;  endogamous  marriage 
among,  126;  impact  of  infitah  on, 
118-19;  Islam  practiced  by,  136-37; 
representation  of,  in  parliament,  255; 
urban,  34;  women  in,  127 

Lower  Egypt:  anti-British  demonstrations 
in,  47;  gods  of,  7;  governorates  of,  95; 
infant  mortality  in,  150;  minorities  in, 
110;  origins  of,  7;  rulers  of,  7;  separa- 
tion of,  from  Upper  Egypt,  11;  unifi- 
cation of,  with  Upper  Egypt,  xxiii,  3, 
18 

Lower  Nubia,  99 
Lutfi,  Ali,  240,  249,  250 
Lutfi  as  Sayyid,  Ahmad,  45,  46 
Luxor,  3,  11,  163 

maat  (concept),  8 

Maat  (goddess),  8 

madrasah,  22-23 

Magharah  mines,  199 

Mahdist  uprising,  43 

Mahir,  Ali,  52,  56,  58 

Mahjub,  Rafat  at:  assassination  of,  xxx 

mahmal  ceremony,  133 

Mahmud,  Muhammad,  46 

Makramallah,  Maurice,  xxvii 

Malta,  47 

Mamluk  beylicate,  25-27 
Mamluk  beys,  25;  assassinated  by  Mu- 
hammad Ali,  29 
Mamluk  Empire:  founding  of,  24 
mamluks,  23-24 

Mamluks,  23-24;  assassinated  by  Mu- 
hammad Ali,  29;  as  conquerors,  xxiii, 
24;  beginning  of  reign  of,  4;  defeat  of, 
by  French,  27;  defeat  of,  by  Muham- 
mad Ali,  28;  role  of,  26;  rule  of  Egypt 
by,  24,  27;  as  rural  elite,  119;  second 
reign  of,  4,  25;  struggle  of,  with  Otto- 
mans for  Egypt,  25,  26 

Mansura,  259 

manufacturing,  200-207 

Manzilah,  100 

Marii,  Sayyid  (Sayyid  Marei),  238,  248, 

257;  profile  of,  238 
Mark  (Saint),  16,  141 
marriage,  126-28 

Marsa  Matruh,  112;  naval  base  in,  313 


Marsot,  Afaf  Lutfi  al-Sayyid,  28,  30 

martial  law,  43;  declared  in  1948,  55 

Marxism,  139,  243 

Marxists,  57,  81,  247,  266,  269 

maternal  care,  151 

Matruh,  101 

Mecca,  21,  24,  78,  130,  132;  pilgrimage 

to,  132-33 
media,  260-62 

Medina,  21,  24,  133;  Muhammad's  move 
to,  131 

Mediterranean  Sea,  13,  16,  22,  30,  31, 
36,  95,  96,  100,  101,  103,  107,  279; 
naval  defense  of,  313 

Meir,  Golda,  79 

Memphis,  7,  11,  14 

Menes  (King):  unification  of  Upper  and 
Lower  Egypt  by,  3,  7,  18 

Menou,  Abdullah  Jacques,  27 

merchandise  trade  balance,  216 

merchants,  34,  35 

Mesopotamia,  10,  134 

middle  class:  created  by  urbanization, 
114;  impact  of  infitah  on,  118-19;  in 
new  elite,  115;  professional,  32;  role  of, 
in  government,  229;  traditional,  34,  ur- 
ban, 35 

Middle  East,  13,  164;  commercial  impor- 
tance of,  30;  Egypt  as  major  power  in, 
293;  risk  of  superpower  confrontation 
in,  73;  Soviet  influence  in,  62,  73;  stra- 
tegic importance  of,  28,  53;  United 
States  influence  in,  284 

Middle  East  peace  talks,  xxxiii 

Middle  Kingdom,  8-9 

Milan,  107 

military:  academies,  316-19;  develop- 
ment of,  296;  disdain  for,  294,  299;  im- 
portance of,  303;  involvement  of,  in 
government,  293,  305;  prestige  of,  304; 
privileges  for,  247;  role  of,  under 
Mubarak,  246;  role  of,  under  Nasser, 
244;  role  of,  under  Sadat,  244;  self- 
sufficiency  of,  325 

Military  Academy,  316;  admission  of 
nonaristocratic  men  to,  57,  295,  316; 
admission  requirements,  316;  curricu- 
lum, 316 

Military  Academy  for  Administrative 

Sciences,  318 
military  advisers:  in  Nigeria,  303;  in 

Somalia,  303;  in  Zaire,  303 
military  advisers,  Soviet,  331,  336 


412 


Index 


military  aid,  217,  331-33;  from  Soviet 
Union,  293,  331;  from  United  States, 
293,  331 

Military  Balance,  1989-1990,  The,  322 

military  cities,  321 

military  courts,  324-25 

military  credits,  324 

military  insignia,  325 

Military  Intelligence,  341 

military  justice,  324-25 

military  materiel:  of  Air  Defense  Force, 
311,  315-16;  of  air  force,  311,  314-15; 
from  Argentina,  311;  from  Britain, 
310,  314,  333;  from  China,  311,  313, 
314,  329,  333;  export  of,  to  Third 
World,  xxxiv;  from  West  Germany, 
310,  329,  333;  from  France,  310,  312, 
329,  333;  of  navy,  314;  from  Soviet 
Union,  307-10,  314,  315,  331,  333; 
from  Spain,  307-10;  from  United 
States,  249,  307-10,  311,  312,  314, 
329,  331-32,  333;  value  of,  333 

military  officers:  blame  by,  for  1967 
defeat,  244;  disapproval  of  military 
production,  327;  influence  of,  under 
Mubarak,  304;  as  members  of  new 
elite,  115,  241 ;  as  members  of  old  elite, 
295;  noncommissioned,  311,  316,  320; 
presidents  as,  306;  privileges  for,  249, 
321;  professionalism  of,  244,  247,  293, 
304;  purges  of,  244-45;  role  of,  in 
government,  293;  salaries  of,  321 

Military  Operations  Authority,  306 

military  organization,  294 

military  planners:  concern  of,  over  Israel, 
302 

military  production,  325-28;  minister  of, 
306 

Military  Production,  Ministry  of,  328 

military  spending,  75 

Military  Technical  Academy  (Armed 

Forces  Technical  College),  316,  318 
military  training,  316-19 
military  uniforms,  324 
millet  system,  140-41,  142 
Milner,  Alfred  (Lord),  36,  48 
Milner  Mission:  reaction  to,  48 
Milner-Zaghlul  Agreement,  48 
mining,  200;  of  coal  in  Sinai,  197 
minorities  (see  also  under  individual  ethnic 

groups),  67,  110-13 
Misr  al  Fatah.  See  Young  Egypt  Party 
Misr  Company,  58 


Mitla  Pass,  297,  299,  300 
monarchy:  abolition  of,  59 
money  supply,  175 
Mongols,  4,  23,  24 
Monophysites,  17,  18 
monopolies,  Egyptian,  30 
Morea  (Peloponnesus),  30 
Morocco,  83 
mortality  rates,  123 

Moscow,  Mubarak's  1990  visit  to,  xxxi 
Mount  Catherine  (Jabal  Katrinah),  102 
Muawiyah,  134 

Mubarak,  Husni,  xxiv,  xxix,  xxxiii,  87, 
113,  237,  238,  246,  306;  agricultural 
controls  under,  180;  approved  as 
Sadat's  successor,  86,  231,  294;  Arab 
alliance  proposed  by,  xxxii;  bourgeoisie 
under,  268;  cabinet  under,  241;  career, 
86;  consultation  of,  with  advisers,  282; 
cooperation  of,  with  Assad,  xxxi;  cor- 
ruption under,  346;  courts  under,  260; 
curtailment  of  military  privileges,  247; 
desire  of,  to  restructure  National 
Democratic  Party,  xxx;  domestic  poli- 
cy of,  xxxiii,  86;  economy  under,  250, 
270;  and  Egypt  as  Arab  mediator,  288; 
elections  under,  271,  275;  elite  ideolo- 
gy under,  242;  exchange  rate  under, 
170;  expansion  of  bureaucracy  under, 
159;  foreign  policy  under,  235,  280, 
282,  286,  287;  freedom  of  political  ex- 
pression under,  267,  304,  333;  freedom 
of  the  press  under,  262,  267;  govern- 
ment decentralization  under,  254; 
gradualism  of,  xxiv-xxv,  xxx,  167,  235; 
independence  of  judiciary  under,  xxx; 
infitah  under,  250-51;  influence  of  mili- 
tary under,  303,  304;  intelligence  ser- 
vice under,  342;  interest  groups  under, 
262;  intraelite  consensus  under,  235; 
investment  incentives  under,  207;  in- 
vestment law,  167;  legitimacy  of,  243, 
266-67;  meeting  of,  with  Arafat,  87; 
Middle  East  peace  proposal  of,  xxxiii; 
People's  Assembly  under,  xxix;  politi- 
cal arena  controlled  by,  266-67;  polit- 
ical structure  under,  289;  post-Gulf  war 
proposal  of,  xxxii;  public  sector  under, 
243;  regime  of,  xxiv,  xxv,  230,  274; 
repression  under,  278;  role  of,  in  Mid- 
dle East  affairs,  xxx;  Shenudah  III 
released  from  exile  by,  143;  social  base 
under,  275;  Soviet  ties  reestablished  by, 


413 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


288;  spending  cuts  under,  172;  state 
visits  of,  xxxi,  xxxiii;  as  vice  president, 
304;  westward  orientation  of,  209 

Muhammad  (the  Prophet),  18,  21,  78, 
130-31,  133,  134 

Muhammad  Ali,  xxxii,  26,  28,  31,  32,  42; 
accomplishments  of,  xxiii;  attempt  of, 
to  secede  from  Ottoman  Empire,  30; 
army  under,  294;  British  concerns 
about,  30;  consolidation  of  power  by, 

28-  29;  cotton  introduced  by,  xxiii,  157, 
180,  188;  defeat  of,  by  British,  31; 
defeat  of  Mamluks  by,  28;  desire  of,  for 
empire,  4;  development  strategy  of, 

29-  30;  economy  under,  165,  170,  171, 
220-21;  education  under,  143;  end  of 
dynasty,  59;  as  governor  of  Egypt,  28; 
as  governor  of  the  Hijaz,  28;  invasion 
of  Syria  by,  30;  manufacturing  under, 
200;  perennial  irrigation  invented  by, 
194;  privatization  of  land  under,  32-33; 
ties  of,  to  France,  30 

Muhammad  Ali  Square,  62 
Muhammad  Bey  Abu  adh  Dhahab,  26 
MuhiadDin,  Khalid,  56,  57,  81,  86,  237, 

238,  269 
Muhi  ad  Din,  Zakariyya,  56 
Murad,  Mustafa  Kamil,  81 
Murad  Bey,  26,  27 
murids,  137 

Musa,  Muhammad  Abd  al  Halim,  xxxiv, 
348 

Muslim  Brotherhood  (Al  Ikhwan  al  Mus- 
limun),  xxv,  xxxiv,  51,  52,  57,  81,  87, 
269,  275;  abstention  of,  from  1990  elec- 
tions, xxix-xxx;  aim  of,  51;  application 
for  party  status  by,  xxix;  assassination 
attempt  by,  of  Nasser,  60,  335;  assas- 
sination by,  of  Nuqrashi,  55;  back- 
ground of,  334;  call  for  application  of 
sharia,  140,  342;  call  for  war  against 
British,  54;  criticism  of  Nasser  by,  60, 
138;  defense  of  private  sector  by,  250; 
election  campaign,  273-74;  excluded 
from  elections,  271,  273;  factions  of, 
138,  270;  founding  of,  51,  138,  334; 
guerrilla  war  against  British,  55;  mem- 
bers of,  270;  under  Nasser,  270;  organi- 
zation of,  51;  outlawed,  60,  266,  270, 
335;  popularity  of,  55;  reaction  of,  to 
Persian  Gulf  war,  xxx;  under  Sadat, 
81,  85,  138 

Muslim  calendar,  131 


Muslim  extremists,  xxiv;  attacks  by,  on 

Christians,  xxv,  xxxiv 
Muslim   moderates:    population  of, 

xxiv-xxv 
Muslims.  See  Islam 


Naguib,  Muhammad,  56,  57,  58,  306; 
conflict  of,  with  Nasser,  59;  ouster  of, 
60;  as  president,  59;  as  prime  minister, 
59;  sympathy  of,  for  Muslim  Brother- 
hood, 60 

Nahhas,  Mustafa,  50,  52,  55,  56 

Nahr  an  Nil.  See  Nile  River 

Naples,  39 

Napoleon  Bonaparte,  26,  93,  104;  as  con- 
queror, xxiii,  27,  107,  258;  invasion  of 
Egypt  by,  26;  survey  by,  for  Suez  canal, 
164 

Napoleonic  Code,  258 

narcotics,  337,  345-47 

Narmer  (Horus  King),  7 

Nasser,  Gamal  Abdul,  xxiii,  xxxv,  4,  35, 
56,  57,  59,  60,  61,  70,  71,  86,  87,  113, 
158,  194,  229,  306;  accomplishments 
of,  74-75,  297;  agriculture  under,  188; 
anger  at  Syrian  support  for  Palestini- 
an guerrillas,  74;  Arab  nationalism  ad- 
vocated by,  64;  Arab  summit  meetings 
initiated  by,  68;  assassination  attempt 
on,  335;  attraction  of,  to  Nonaligned 
Movement,  60;  bureaucracy  of,  232; 
charisma  of,  281,  284;  conflict  of,  with 
Naguib,  59;  core  elite  under,  237;  death 
of,  74;  decision  to  arm  Egypt,  61;  as 
deputy  prime  minister,  59;  desire  of,  to 
change  Egypt,  57;  dislike  of  British,  57; 
economy  under,  166,  167,  222;  educa- 
tion of,  57;  elite  under,  232;  elite  ideol- 
ogy under,  242;  failures  of,  74;  foreign 
policy  of,  279-80,  281,  283;  Free  Of- 
ficers organized  by,  55;  fringe  benefits 
introduced  by,  179;  importance  of  mili- 
tary under,  303;  industrialization  under, 
202;  interest  groups  under,  262;  invest- 
ment under,  217;  Jordanian  cease-fire 
mediated  by,  74;  land  reform  under, 
253;  legitimacy  of,  243,  266,  284;  me- 
dia under,  260;  nationalization  under 
218;  newspapers  read  by,  261;  parlia- 
ments under,  255;  police  under,  337; 
political  arena  controlled  by,  266-67; 


414 


Index 


power  of,  76;  as  prime  minister,  59; 
public  mourning  for,  74;  public  sector 
under,  242;  purges  by,  233,  303;  re- 
form of  political  system  by,  70;  regime 
of,  xxiii,  xxiv,  229;  repression  by,  278; 
request  by,  to  remove  UNEF  troops, 
69;  resignation  of,  70;  role  of,  in  First 
Arab-Israeli  War,  54-55;  social  base 
under,  275;  'socialist  decrees'  of,  66; 
socialist  policies  of,  114;  Suez  Canal  na- 
tionalized by,  xxiv,  4,  62,  166,  194, 
212,  296;  support  of,  for  PLO,  72; 
troops  sent  to  Israeli  border  by,  68;  vul- 
nerabilities of  regime,  229 
Nasser  City,  321 

Nasser  High  Military  Academy,  319 
Nasserism,  242,  246,  248,  249,  266,  269, 
281 

Nasserite  Party,  81,  87;  application  for 
party  status  by,  xxix 

National  Assembly,  70,  80,  305;  elections 
of  1964,  67 

National  Bank  of  Egypt,  173 

National  Charter  of  1962,  67;  Arab  so- 
cialism under,  166;  goals  under,  66; 
health  under,  148;  role  of  state  under, 

XXV 

National  Control  of  Diarrheal  Diseases 

Project  (NCDDP),  148-50 
National  Defense  College,  319 
National  Defense  Council,  306 
National  Democratic  Party  (NDP),  xxix, 
86,  267,  268,  276;  contributions  to,  by 
Islamic  investment  companies,  277; 
control  of  legislature  by,  xxx,  256;  es- 
tablished, 81;  Mubarak's  desire  to  re- 
structure, xxx;  representation  of,  in 
People's  Assembly,  87,  273 
National  Investment  Bank:  duties  of, 
171-72 

nationalist  movement,  39,  46,  229,  295 
National  Military  Service  Law  (1955), 

xxxiii,  296 
National   Organization   for  Military 

Production,  328 
National  Party  (Al  Hizb  al  Watani),  44, 

45,  49 

National  Planning  Committee,  168 
National  Popular  Party  (Al  Hizb  al  Wata- 
ni al  Ahli),  40 
National  Progressive  Unionist  Organiza- 
tion (NPUO)  (see  also  National  Progres- 
sive Unionist  Party),  81,  336 


National  Progressive  Unionist  Party 
(NPUP),  86,  269,  275;  excluded  from 
elections,  271,  273,  274;  representation 
of,  in  People's  Assembly,  87 
National  Security  Council  (NSC),  232 
National  Service  Project  Organization, 
325 

National  Society  (see  also  Hulwan  Socie- 
ty), 39,  40 

National  Union,  76 

NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Orga- 
nization 

Naval  Academy,  316-18 

navy,  313,  314,  315;  commander  of,  306; 
conscripts  in,  293,  313;  origins  of,  295; 
reserves  of,  320;  volunteers  in,  293 

NCDDP.  See  National  Control  of  Diar- 
rheal Diseases  Project 

NDP.  See  National  Democratic  Party 

Nefertiti,  12 

Negev  Desert:  battle  for  (1948),  54-55, 

296;  plans  to  irrigate,  68 
Nehru,  Jawaharlal,  61,  62 
Nelson,  Horatio  (Lord),  27 
Neolithic  era,  5 
Nestle,  218 

New  Kingdom,  10-12,  294 
newspapers:    circulation,    262;  self- 
censorship  in,  261 
New  Valley,  101 

New  Wafd  Party,  265,  275;  abstention  of, 
from  1990  elections,  xxix-xxx;  ban  on, 
overturned,  260,  266;  contributions  to, 
by  Islamic  investment  companies,  277; 
defense  of  private  sector  by,  250;  elec- 
tion campaign,  274;  excluded  from 
elections,  271,  273;  ideology  of,  269- 
70;  members  of,  269;  newspaper  of, 
262;  repression  of,  256 

Nigeria,  303 

Nijm,  Ali,  250 

Nile  Delta,  9,  18,  93,  96-100,  102; 
agriculture  in,  179,  192;  canals  in,  164; 
cities  in,  108;  climate  of,  188;  drainage 
in,  195;  food  riots  in,  118;  land  recla- 
mation in,  185,  186;  religious  clashes 
in,  142;  schistosomiasis  in,  150;  tem- 
perature in,  103;  transportation  net- 
work in,  160;  troops  stationed  in,  307; 
villagers  in,  122 

Nile  River  (Nahr  an  Nil),  3,  5,  14,  18, 
24,  31,  93,  95,  96,  99,  108;  bond  of 
people  with,  5;  flood  cycle  of,  5,  100, 


415 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


193,  195;  magical  control  of  flooding, 
7,  8,  9;  prediction  of  flooding,  3,  100; 
regulation  of,  194;  and  national  secu- 
rity, 279;  transportation  on,  160,  164 

Nile  Valley,  54,  96-100,  102;  cotton  cul- 
tivation in,  180;  effect  of  Aswan  High 
Dam  on  fertility  of,  100;  food  riots  in, 
118;  highway  system  in,  160;  popula- 
tion in,  104;  silt  deposits,  100,  195; 
temperatures  in,  103;  topsoil  from, 
used  for  bricks,  195 

Nixon,  Richard,  77,  78 

Nizzana,  296 

nomarchs,  8-9 

nomes,  8 

Nonaligned  Movement,  74;  Conference 
of,  61;  Nasser's  attraction  to,  60 

nonalignment:  developed  by  Nasser  and 
Tito,  61 

North  Africa,  110 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 

(NATO),  60 
North  Yemen.  See  Yemen  Arab  Republic 
NPT.  See  Treaty  on  the  Nonproliferation 

of  Nuclear  Weapons 
NPUO.  See  National  Progressive  Unionist 

Organization 
NPUP.  See  National  Progressive  Unionist 

Party 

NSC.  See  National  Security  Council 
Nubar  Pasha,  38 
Nubia,  11,  111 

Nubians,  10,  110,  111-12;  labor  migra- 
tion by,  123;  resettlement  of,  111,  195 
nuclear  power,  330-31 
nuclear  weapons,  330 
Nuqrashi,  Mahmud,  53,  54,  55 
nutrition,  150 


October  1973  War,  xxiv,  xxvi,  xxxiv, 
78-79,  166,  231,  233,  242,  246,  293, 
300-301;  air  force  destroyed  in,  312; 
cease-fire  in,  79,  282,  301;  effect  of,  on 
economy,  217;  effect  of,  on  Egypt,  79, 
281,  285;  effect  of,  on  Israel,  79;  effect 
of,  on  military,  304;  as  legitimizer  of 
Sadat,  248;  losses  in,  301,  312;  as 
morale  booster  for  Arabs,  79,  301-2; 
preparations  for,  78,  310;  role  of  navy 
in,  313;  Soviet  reaction  to,  78-79;  Unit- 
ed States  reaction  to,  78-79 

October  Working  Paper,  82,  242 


OECD.  See  Organisation  for  Economic 
Co-operation  and  Development 

oil,  197,  198,  210-11;  boom,  158,  159, 
212;  dependence  on,  159;  in  Eastern 
Desert,  102;  exchange  rate  for,  223;  ex- 
ports, 204;  fields,  198;  influence  of,  on 
current  account  balance,  210-11,  215; 
revenues  from,  xxvi,  172;  surplus,  198 

oil  industry,  109;  investment  in,  217,  218; 
joint  ventures  in,  198;  wages  in,  178 

oil  slump,  of  1985-86,  158, 159,  198,  202, 
208,  209,  213 

Old  Kingdom,  8-9;  temples  in,  3 

Oman,  73,  86,  303;  arms  sales  to,  330 

OPEC .  See  Organization  of  the  Petrole- 
um Exporting  Countries 

Operation  Badr,  79,  300 

Operation  Brightstar,  332 

Organic  Law  of  1913,  43 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation 
and  Development  (OECD),  209,  214, 
217 

Organization  of  Arab  Petroleum  Export- 
ing Countries,  xxxi 

Organization  of  the  Petroleum  Exporting 
Countries  (OPEC),  198 

Osiris,  7 

Osman,  25 

Osman,  Osman  Ahmad  (Uthman  Ahmad 
Uthman),  238,  248,  263 

Ottoman  Empire,  26,  27,  36,  42,  294;  ab- 
sorption of  Egypt  into,  4,  24-25,  26, 
140;  attempt  of,  to  defeat  Napoleon,  27; 
British  policy  toward,  30,  35;  consoli- 
dation of  power  by,  after  Napoleon's 
retreat,  28;  in  Eastern  Europe,  25; 
Egypt  detached  from,  43;  Islam  as  state 
religion  under,  135;  Muhammad  Ali's 
attempt  to  secede  from,  30;  origins  of, 
24,  25;  religious  communities  under, 
140-41;  in  World  War  I,  43 


Pakistan,  60,  346 
Paleolithic  era,  5 

Palestine,  10,  11,  27,  64,  294,  296;  Arab 
resistance  to  partition  of,  54;  crusaders 
driven  from,  22;  as  part  of  Egyptian 
Fatimid  Empire,  21 

Palestine  Liberation  Organization,  68; 
Mubarak's  support  for,  287;  Nasser's 
support  for,  72;  rejection  of  Resolution 


416 


Index 


242,  72;  as  supporter  of  Iraq  in  Persian 
Gulf  war,  xxxii;  termination  of  support 
for,  73 

Palestinian  guerrillas,  73,  74 
Palestinian-Israeli    talks:  Mubarak's 

proposal  for,  xxx 
Palestinians,  5,  69,  83;  Egyptian  support 

of,  284;  refugees,  110;  rights  of,  288 
Palmerston,  Lord,  30 
pan-Arabism,  75,  242,  260,  280,  284 
parallel  market  rate,  171 
Paris,  107 

Paris  Club:  aid  from,  xxvi,  xxviii; 
rescheduling  of  debt  to,  xxvi,  220,  222, 
223,  224 

Paris  Peace  Conference:  wqfd  to,  46,  47, 
48 

Parliament  (see  also  Consultative  Council; 
People's  Assembly),  49,  255-58;  seats 
reserved  for  peasants  and  workers  in, 
67 

party  of  pressure,  274 

party  system,  267-75;  under  Mubarak, 
86;  under  Sadat,  80-81 

patrilineages,  123-24;  honor  in,  127-28; 
property  in,  126;  women  in,  127 

PCNP.  See  Permanent  Council  for  Na- 
tional Production 

peace,  Egyptian-Israeli,  76,  83,  86,  256, 
265,  266,  269,  280,  304;  Arab  opposi- 
tion to  separate,  73,  214;  Egyptian 
desire  for,  83;  negotiations,  73;  Sadat's 
authority  in,  256 

peasants  (fellahin),  32;  benefits  of  land 
reclamation  for,  186;  benefits  of  land 
reform  for,  121;  conditions  of,  under 
Nasser,  75;  conscription  of,  295;  con- 
trols over,  254;  landowning,  122;  loss 
of  independence  of,  33;  loss  of  land  by, 
33;  migration  of,  to  cities,  34;  political 
activism,  254;  population  of  landless, 
34;  purchases  of  land  by,  121;  seats 
reserved  in  parliament  for,  67,  272;  up- 
risings, 120-21 

Peloponnesus,  30 

penal  system,  347-48 

People's  Assembly,  xxxii,  80,  86,  129, 
230,  255,  305,  322,  348;  dissolved, 
xxix,  257;  elections  for,  80;  gradual  ap- 
plication of  sharia  approved  by,  140, 
342;  investment  law  debated  by,  167; 
Islamists  in,  335;  under  Mubarak, 
xxix;  power  in,  255;  role  of,  xxviii 


People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen 
(South  Yemen):  refugees  from,  110 

People's  Party.  See  Umma  Party 

Permanent  Council  for  National  Produc- 
tion (PCNP),  168 

Persia,  13 

Persian  Empire  (Achaemenid  Empire), 
13,  294;  Twenty- seventh  Dynasty  in, 
13 

Persian  Gulf,  212;  peacekeeping  force, 
xxxii;  withdrawal  of  Egyptian  troops 
from,  xxxiii 

Persian  Gulf  crisis/war,  xxx-xxxii,  xxxiii; 
effect  of,  on  Egypt,  xxvii,  xxviii,  xxxv; 
role  of  Egypt  in,  xxvii 

Persian  Gulf  states,  303;  Egyptian  work- 
ers in,  109,  118,  214;  instability  of, 
213 

Persian  occupation,  13,  15;  as  Thirty-first 
Dynasty,  13;  as  Twenty- seventh  Dy- 
nasty, 13 

Persians,  110 

personal  status  law  ("women's  rights 
law"),  256,  258;  endorsed  by  Islamic 
clergy,  129;  opposition  to,  by  Islamists, 
277;  points  of,  129;  reversed,  129,  258 

petroleum.  See  oil 

pharmaceuticals,  205 

pharaohs,  229;  ability  of,  to  control  Nile 
flood,  8,  9;  as  gods,  8;  non-Egyptian, 
11 

Pharaonic  Age,  3 

Pharos  lighthouse,  14 

Philae  Island  Qazirat  Filah),  3,  15 

Philistines,  10 

Pielli,  218 

Pi  Ramesses,  12 

Pisa,  22 

plague,  26,  106 

Planning,  Ministry  of,  169,  175 
Planning  and  Budget  Committee,  257 
PLO.  See  Palestine  Liberation  Organi- 
zation 
police,  337-41 
Police  College,  339,  340 
Policemen's  Sports  Association,  338 
policy-making  process,  236,  237 
Political  Affairs,  Office  for,  240 
political  apathy,  275 
political  arena:  control  of,  by  Mubarak, 
266-67;  control  of,  by  Nasser,  265-66; 
control  of,  by  Sadat,  266 
political  instability,  182,  222 


417 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


political  stability,  xxxiii 

political  structure:  in  ancient  Egypt,  5-7; 

under  Mubarak,  289 
political  system,  230;  Nasser's  reform  of, 

70 

polygyny,  128,  129 

population:  of  Alexandria,  108;  of  Cairo, 
105,  107;  control  policies,  104-5;  den- 
sity, 104,  105;  of  Giza,  105;  growth 
rate,  107,  175;  increase,  75,  182;  in- 
crease in  urban,  34,  104;  of  landless 
peasants  ca.  1900,  34;  male-female  ra- 
tio, 104;  of  Nubians,  111;  of  resident 
foreigners,  35;  urban-rural  distribution, 
104 

population  figures:  in  1798,  104;  in  1850, 
107;  in  1930,  107;  in  1947,  104;  in 
1976,  104;  in  1986,  104;  in  1990,  xxv, 
104 

Port  Fuad,  63 

Port  Said  (Bur  Said),  34,  63,  164,  313; 

anti-British  demonstrations  in,  49;  free 

zone  near,  218;  governorate  of,  95; 

naval  base  in,  313;  population  of,  108 
Port  Tawfiq:  naval  base  in,  313 
pound,  Egyptian:  exchange  rates  of, 

170-71 

presidency,  230-32;  Constitution  of  1971, 
230;  defense  policy  reserved  to,  256; 
foreign  policy  reserved  to,  256;  intelli- 
gence service,  341;  mechanism  for  suc- 
cession, 231;  under  Mubarak,  235; 
under  Nasser,  230,  232-33;  under 
Sadat,  233-35 

president,  230;  appointments  by,  231;  au- 
tonomy of,  255;  bureaucracy  of,  232; 
as  chief  legislator,  232;  constitutional 
powers  of,  231;  foreign  policy  under, 
232;  influence  of,  over  military,  232; 
military  officers  as,  306;  national  coun- 
cils under,  232;  policy  innovations 
by,  236;  powers  of,  232-33,  305;  re- 
sponsibility of,  for  economy,  231;  as 
supreme  commander  of  the  armed 
forces,  305 

press:  freedom  of,  260,  262,  267; 
government-controlled,  261;  role  of, 
261 

price  controls,  168;  circumvention  of, 
203-4;  dismantling  of,  222;  effect  of, 
203;  program,  169 
prime  minister:  duties  of,  236 
Principal  Bank  for  Development  and 


Credit,  184 

private  sector:  borrowing,  174-75;  bour- 
geoisie, 268;  defense  of,  250;  en- 
trepreneurs, 223;  imports,  209 

privatization,  168,  206-7 

professionals,  32 

professional  syndicates,  264-65 

Prophet,  the  (Muhammad).  See  Mu- 
hammad 

Prussia,  30 

Psammethichus  I,  13 

Ptolemies,  14,  15,  16 

Ptolemy,  14 

public  finance  (see  also  budget),  171-73 

public  health,  xxv,  151,  152 

Public  Prosecutor,  Office  of  the,  259,  343 

public  sector,  166;  borrowing,  174;  effect 
of  infitah  on,  253;  investment  in 
manufacturing,  206;  managers,  265; 
manufacturing,  205;  under  Mubarak, 
243;  under  Nasser,  242;  role  of,  206; 
under  Sadat,  243;  size  of,  206 

Pyongyang,  xxxi 

Pyramid  Age,  9 

pyramids,  xxiii,  3,  8,  9-10,  11,  108 


Qadhafi,  Muammar  al,  xxxi,  245,  302 
Qasr  an  Nil  prison,  47 
Qasriyat  ar  Rihan  Church,  142 
Qatar,  303,  329 
Qattara  Depression,  101 
Qaysuni,  Abdul  Munim,  238,  249 
Qina,  99 

Quran,  131,  137,  143 
Quraysh  clan,  130 
Qutuz,  4,  24 


Ra:  cult  of,  12 
Radio  Cairo,  260-61 
radios,  261 
radio  stations,  261 
Rafah,  296 

rail  network,  160,  163 
Ramadan,  132 
Ramesses  II,  12 
Ramesseum,  12 

Ras  at  Tin  naval  training  base,  313 
Ras  at  Tin  Palace,  40 
Ras  Banas  base,  332;  United  States  ac- 
cess to,  332 


418 


Index 


Rawdah,  18,  24 

Rawd  al  Faraj,  105 

Raziq,  Hasan  Abd  ar,  45 

RCC.  See  Revolutionary  Command 
Council 

Reagan,  Ronald,  xxx 

Red  Sea,  14,  22,  23,  31,  69,  95,  102,  135, 
163,  164;  mined  by  Libya,  314;  naval 
defense  of,  313,  314;  strategic  impor- 
tance of,  303 

Red  Sea  Hills,  102 

reform:  failure  of  Wafd  to  effect,  51 

reform,  fiscal,  37-38;  under  Ismail,  37 

reform  programs:  factors  in,  xxviii;  inter- 
national support  for,  xxviii;  under 
Nasser,  59,  71 

religion  (see  also  under  individual  religions), 
130-43;  after  June  1967  War,  130;  af- 
terlife in,  3,  5,  10;  freedom  of,  130; 
gods  in  ancient  Egypt,  7,8;  importance 
of,  to  social  life,  94;  monotheism,  12; 
under  Romans,  15 

Religious  Affairs  Committee,  257 

religious  minorities,  143 

repression:  examples  of,  278;  frustration 
with,  70 

Republican  Guard,  307 

reserves,  221 

Resolution  242  (of  UN  Security  Council), 
77;  Egypt's  qualified  acceptance  of, 
71-72;  international  reaction  to,  72; 
modification  of,  73 

revenues:  collection  of,  168;  as  portion  of 
GDP,  172 

Revolutionary  Command  Council  (RCC), 
56,  57,  58,  60,  336 

Revolution  of  1919,  46;  demonstrations 
in,  47,  48-49 

Revolution  of  1952,  xxiii,  56,  82,  93,  113, 
158,  229,  244;  achievements  of,  229, 
258;  ideology  of,  242;  impact  of,  on 
education,  116;  impact  of,  on  minori- 
ty population,  110;  impact  of,  on 
pre  revolutionary  elite,  115;  impact  of, 
on  religious  institutions,  136;  impact  of, 
on  women,  128;  legitimacy  of,  270; 
results  of,  xxv,  4 

rice,  181,  190-92;  cropping  patterns  of, 
194;  exchange  rate  for,  223;  govern- 
ment procurement  quotas  for,  187; 
Japanese,  192;  mechanical  transplant- 
ing of,  196;  yields,  192,  193 

road  network,  160-63 


Rockefeller,  David,  249 

rock  tombs,  xxiii,  3,  11 

Rogers,  William,  73 

Rogers  Plan,  73;  Egypt's  acceptance  of, 

73,  284;  Sadat's  rejection  of,  77 
Roman  Empire,  14,  294;  administration 

of  Egypt  under,  15-16;  fall  of,  17; 

spread  of  Christianity  in,  16 
Romans,  110 
Rommel,  Erwin,  52 
Rosetta,  11,  100 

rural  society:  absentee  landlords  in, 
121-22;  endogamous  marriage  in,  126; 
mortality  rates  in,  123;  landless  vil- 
lagers in,  122;  literacy  rates  in,  123; 
peasant  landowners  in,  122;  stratifica- 
tion of,  121;  women  in,  127 

Russia,  30 

Ruz  al  Yusuf,  261 

Saada,  Ibrahim,  261 

Saadist  Party,  50,  52 

Sa  al  Hajar.  See  Sais 

Sabri,  Ali,  70,  71,  76,  80,  237,  238,  245 

Sadat,  Anwar  as,  xxx,  56,  71,  86,  87,  113, 
158,  229,  237,  264,  270,  288,  306; 
agricultural  controls  under,  180; 
agricultural  cooperatives  under,  184; 
appointment  of  editors  by,  261;  assas- 
sination of,  xxiv,  86,  139,  213,  279, 
294,  335;  bureaucracy  of,  232;  cabinet 
under,  241;  career  of,  76;  cease-fire 
with  Israel,  79-80;  confidants  of,  248; 
consolidation  of  power  by,  80;  corrup- 
tion under,  346;  court  system  under, 
259;  demonstrations  under,  334;  de- 
Nasserization  campaign,  257;  denun- 
ciation of  socialism,  242;  desire  of,  for 
peace  with  Israel,  285;  distrust  of  Qadh- 
afi,  245;  early  view  of,  76,  231;  econo- 
my under,  167;  Egypt  as  protector  of 
Western  interests  under,  286;  elections 
under,  271,  275;  elite  ideology  under, 
242;  expansion  of  bureaucracy  under, 
159;  foreign  policy  under,  233,  282; 
government  decentralization  under, 
254;  importance  of  military  under,  303; 
interest  groups  under,  262;  intraelite 
politics  under,  233;  legitimacy  of,  243, 
266,  281;  mass  arrests  by,  85;  military 
under,  304;  parliament  under,  257; 
party  system  under,  80-81;  patriarchal 


419 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


society,  242-43;  peace  initiatives  of, 
with  Israel,  329;  police  under,  337,  338; 
political  arena  controlled  by,  266-67; 
power  sharing  with  bourgeoisie, 
233-35;  power  struggle  with  Sadiq, 
245;  power  struggle  with  Shazli,  246; 
public  sector  under,  243;  purges  by,  80, 
86,  231,  238,  247,  278,  304,  312; 
repression,  256,  278;  revival  of  capital- 
ism by,  243;  rule  of,  xxiv,  76,  229- 
30;  Shenudah  III  banished  by,  142; 
social  base  under,  275;  Soviet  advisers 
dismissed  by,  300;  support  of,  for  Ger- 
mans in  World  War  II,  295;  un- 
popularity of,  85;  visit  of,  to  Jerusalem, 
xxiv,  83,  286;  westward  orientation  of, 
209;  world  reaction  to  Jerusalem  visit, 
83 

Saddam  Husayn,  xxxi,  xxxii 
Sadiq,  Muhammad,  245 
Said,  31,  33,  38 
Said,  Mustafa,  250 
Sais  (Sa  al  Hajar),  11 
Saladin.  See  Salah  ad  Din  ibn  Ayyub 
Salah  ad  Din  ibn  Ayyub  (Saladin),  22,  23, 
135 

Salama,  Shaykh  Hafiz,  276 
Salim,  Gamal,  56 
Salim,  Mamduh,  238,  241,  248 
Salim,  Salah,  56 

San  al  Hajar  al  Qibliyah.  See  Tanis 
sanitation,  public,  151,  160 
Saqqarah,  9 
satrapy,  14 

Saudi  Arabia,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  xxxiv,  66, 
112,  280,  285,  303;  Egyptian  civilians 
in,  during  Persian  Gulf  war,  xxvii; 
Egyptian  soldiers  in,  during  Persian 
Gulf  war,  xxvii,  xxxii;  Egyptian  work- 
ers in,  109;  Egypt's  support  for,  in  Per- 
sian Gulf  war,  xxxi;  financial  contribu- 
tions of,  to  Egypt,  xxvii,  71;  as  member 
of  Arab  Organization  for  Industrializa- 
tion, 329;  military  aid  from,  322;  op- 
position to  United  Arab  Republic, 
65-66;  supporters  of,  in  Persian  Gulf 
war,  xxx 

savings  rate,  173,  213 

Sawt  al  Arab,  262 

schools:  girls',  143;  intermediate,  144, 
147;  primary,  144,  146;  private,  143; 
public,  143;  secondary,  144 

SDR.  See  Special  Drawing  Rights 


SEATO.  See  Southeast  Asia  Treaty  Or- 
ganization 

"Sea  Wind"  exercises,  314 

See  of  Alexandria,  141 

Seleucus  of  Syria,  14 

Selim  I  (Sultan),  25;  conquest  of  Egypt 
by,  4,  24 

Selim  III  (Sultan),  27 

Septimius  Severus,  17 

Serag  al  Din,  Fuad.  See  Siraj  ad  Din,  Fuad 

service  providers,  117 

services,  government,  159 

service  sector,  xxv;  share  of  GDP,  159 

Seth,  7 

Seychelles,  48 

Shafii,  Husayn  ash,  56,  71 

Shafii,  Zaki,  248 

shahada,  131 

shah  of  Iran,  286 

Shamir,  Yitzhaq,  xxx 

Sharawi,  Ali,  46 

Sharawi,  Huda,  47 

Sharawi,  Shaykh  Muhammad  Mutwalli, 
277 

sharecroppers,  33,  119-20 

sharia,  xxiii,  133,  229;  application  of, 
xxv,  140,  277,  335,  342;  use  of,  in  le- 
gal system,  258-59 

Sharif  Pasha,  Muhammad,  39 

Sharm  as  Shaykh,  296,  297 

Shazli,  Ahmad  Ismail,  245,  246 

Shell,  198,  199 

Shenudah  III,  85,  142-43 

Shibin  al  Kawm,  45 

shillas,  236,  275 

shipping,  164 

Shirkuh,  22 

Shubra  al  Khaymah,  105,  108 

Shubra  Khit,  27 

Shukairy,  Ahmad,  68 

Shuqayr,  Muhammad  Labib,  71 

Sicily,  21,  22 

Sidqi,  Atif,  240,  250 

Sidqi,  Aziz,  237,  247,  257 

Sidqi,  Ismail,  50,  54 

Siemens,  218 

Simon,  Wiliam,  249 

Sinai  I,  282,  285 

Sinai  II,  282,  285 

Sinai  network,  261 

Sinai  Peninsula,  83,  95,  96,  102,  163, 
296,  297;  air  service  to,  163;  area  of, 
102;  beduins  in,  110,  112;  capture  of, 


420 


Index 


by  Israelis,  69;  coal  mining  in,  197, 
199;  governorates  of,  95,  102;  Israeli 
occupation  of,  64,  83,  102,  284-85, 
299,  301;  Israeli  withdrawal  from,  80, 
87,  302;  land  reclamation  in,  185;  loss 
of,  xxiv;  oil  fields,  198;  precipitation  in, 
103;  restoration  of,  72,  248;  tourist  at- 
tractions in,  215;  transportation  to, 
160;  Tripartite  Invasion  of,  xxiv,  4,  63; 
troops  stationed  in,  307 
Siraj  ad  Din,  Fuad  (Serag  al  Din),  56,  86, 

265,  269 
sirocco  (khamsin),  103-4 
Siwa  (Siwah),  14,  101,  111 
Six-Day  War.  See  June  1967  War 
skilled  workers,  117;  shortages  of,  178 
SLO.  See  Socialist  Liberal  Organization 
SLP.  See  Socialist  Labor  Party 
Snoferu,  9 

social  care  cooperatives,  152;  services  of, 
152 

Socialist  Labor  Party  (SLP),  xxix,  87, 
273;  election  campaign,  274;  founded, 
81;  ideology  of,  269;  members  of,  269; 
reaction  of,  to  Persian  Gulf  war,  xxx 

Socialist  Liberal  Organization  (SLO)  (see 
also  Liberal  Party),  81 

socialist  policies,  114,  115 

Socialist  Prosecutor,  Office  of  the,  344 

social  programs,  75 

social  security,  xxv,  152 

social  service  centers,  152 

solar  energy,  197 

Somalia,  86,  303;  training  in  Egypt  for 

officers  from,  319 
Southeast  Asia  Treaty  Organization,  60 
South  Yemen.  See  People's  Democratic 

Republic  of  Yemen 
Soviet-Egyptian  relations,  xxiv,  73,  76, 

281;  renewed  under  Mubarak,  xxx 
Soviet-Egyptian  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 

Cooperation,  77;  renounced  by  Sadat, 

71,  331 

Soviet  Union,  61,  68,  69,  74,  74,  244, 
300;  aid  from,  72;  air  defense  system 
installed  by,  72;  barter  agreements 
with,  xxvii;  in  Cold  War,  53,  59,  283; 
containment  of,  60;  control  of  Egyp- 
tian airfields  by,  72;  importance  of 
Egypt  to,  65;  influence  of,  in  Egypt,  65, 
288;  military  advisers  of,  in  Egypt,  331; 
military  aid  from,  xxxiv,  285,  288,  312, 
331;  military  materiel  from,  307-10, 


314,  315,  331,  333;  military  training  of 
Egyptians  in,  319,  331;  offer  of  loan  for 
Aswan  High  Dam,  62,  194,  288;  peace 
plan,  73;  reaction  of,  to  takeover  of 
Suez  Canal,  63;  reaction  of,  to  Tripar- 
tite Invasion,  63;  Sadat's  expulsion  of 
advisers,  78,  286,  288;  Sadat's  turn 
from,  81,  ties  of,  with  Egypt,  xxiii,  288; 
trade  with,  209 

Spain,  22;  military  credits  from,  324; 
military  materiel  from,  307-10 

Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDRs),  208,  212 

Stack,  Sir  Lee,  50,  51 

state  of  emergency,  305 

State  Security  Court,  344 

Step  Pyramid,  9 

Stinu,  Kamal  Ramzi,  71 

Strait  of  Tiran,  69,  313 

subsidies,  171,  172,  203;  for  agricultural 
inputs,  186,  196,  250;  cost  of,  173;  for 
education,  147,  169;  for  electricity,  250; 
elimination  of,  118,  248-49,  250,  256, 
334;  for  energy,  169,  200;  expansion  of, 
118,  167;  for  food,  86,  169,  182,  186, 
187,  250;  problems  with,  170;  require- 
ment to  eliminate  or  reduce,  xxvi,  82; 
riots  against  reduction  of,  82,  118 

Sudan,  31,  49,  50,  51,  86,  95,  96,  99,  102, 
279,  294,  302-3;  arms  sales  to,  330; 
British  control  of,  50-51;  coup  of  June 
1989,  303;  Egyptian  desire  for  control 
of,  54;  independence  of,  59;  training  in 
Egypt  for  officers  from,  319;  reaction 
of,  to  Sadat's  Jerusalem  visit,  73;  refu- 
gees from,  110;  as  supporter  of  Iraq  in 
Persian  Gulf  war,  xxxii,  xxxiv;  tele- 
phone service  to,  165 

Sudanese  Nile  salient,  95 

Suez,  31,  61,  163,  164;  anti-British  demon- 
strations in,  49;  free  zone  near,  218; 
Nubians  in,  111;  population  of,  108; 
port  of,  164 

Suez  Canal,  xxiv,  34,  37,  46,  78,  102, 
108,  118,  245,  246,  299,  300,  302;  ad- 
ministration of,  252;  Air  Defense  Force 
stationed  in,  315;  British  control  of,  4, 
36,  42,  59,  211,  295;  budget  for,  171; 
cease-fire  along,  73;  closed,  69,  212; 
concession  to  Britain  and  France,  211; 
construction  of,  by  Lesseps,  31-32, 
211;  effect  of  Persian  Gulf  war  on, 
xxvii;  history  of,  164,  211-12;  impor- 
tance of,  to  Britain,  53;  importance  of, 


421 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


to  Egypt,  107;  influence  of,  on  current 
account  balance,  210,  215;  internation- 
al reaction  to  takeover  of,  62-63;  length 
of,  164;  nationalized,  xxiv,  4,  62,  166, 
194,  212,  282,  283,  296;  naval  defense 
of,  313,  314;  proposals  for,  164;  re- 
opened to  shipping,  64,  80;  revenue 
from,  xxvi,  109,  212;  security  of,  303; 
as  source  of  foreign  exchange,  215;  ton- 
nage passing  through,  212;  traffic  on, 
164-65;  troops  stationed  in,  307 

Suez  Canal  Authority,  212 

Suez  Canal  Company,  31-32,  37,  62,  63 

Suez  Canal  Zone,  54,  59;  British  adminis- 
tration of,  50,  53;  British  military  base 
in,  59,  60;  invasion  of,  42;  siege  of,  55 

sugar  refining,  205 

Sulayman  Pasha,  Mahmud,  45 

Sultan,  Ahmad,  238 

sunna,  131 

Supply,  Ministry  of,  253,  264 
Supreme  Administrative  Court,  xxix 
Supreme  Council  of  Judicial  Organs,  259 
Syria,  xxxii,  10,  18,  24,  27,  30,  68,  134, 
135,  210,  280,  282,  288,  294;  defense 
pact  with  Egypt,  68;  expulsion  of  Mu- 
hammad Ali  from,  30-31 ;  invasion  of, 
by  Ali  Bey,  26;  invasion  of,  by  Muham- 
mad Ali,  30;  invasion  of,  by  Napoleon, 
27;  Israeli  attack  on,  69;  Mamluk  rule 
of,  24;  in  Operation  Badr,  300;  Pales- 
tine Liberation  Organization  in,  68;  as 
part  of  Egyptian  Fatimid  Empire,  21; 
reaction  of,  to  Resolution  242,  72;  sup- 
port of,  for  Palestinian  guerrillas,  74; 
as  target  of  Muhammad  Ali,  4;  troops 
sent  to  Israeli  border  by,  68;  union  of, 
with  Egypt,  65 

Taba,  287 
Tagammu,  xxx 
Taiwan,  223 

Tall  al  Amarinah.  See  Akhetaten 
Tanis  (San  al  Hajar  al  Qibliyah),  11 
Tanta,  44;  anti-British  demonstrations  in, 

47,  49;  courts  in,  259 
tariqa,  137 
Tasa,  300 

Tawfiq  (Khedive),  39,  40,  42,  43 
taxes,  172;  on  beduins,  119;  evasion  of, 

by  rich,  265;  on  landowners,  120;  on 

merchants,  35 


tax  farming,  22 
tax  holidays,  264 
teachers,  147 
Tel  Aviv,  54,  296 

telecommunications,  165;  improvements 

in,  160;  systems,  update  of,  xxvi 
telephone  system,  165,  327 
television  networks,  261 
Tell  al  Amarna.  See  Akhetaten 
Tell  al  Kabir,  42 

temples,  xxiii,  3,  11-12;  of  Amenophis 
III,  1 1;  of  Amun,  1 1 ,  14,  101 ;  at  Den- 
dera,  15;  at  Edfu,  15;  as  innovation  of 
Queen  Hatshepsut,  11;  of  Romans,  15 

textile  industry,  203,  204,  205 

Thebes,  10,  11,  12 

Third  World,  61;  export  of  military 
materiel  to,  xxxiv;  Nasser  accepted  as 
leader  of,  61;  reaction  of,  to  takeover 
of  Suez  Canal,  63;  role  of  Egypt  in, 
279;  trade  with,  210 

Thutmose  III  (Pharaoh),  10 

Tilmasani,  Umar,  85,  270 

Tito,  Josip  Broz,  61,  62 

Tora  Prison,  347-48 

Toulon,  26 

tourism,  214-16;  effect  of  Persian  Gulf 
war  on,  xxvii;  exchange  rate  for,  171, 
215;  influence  of,  on  current  account 
balance,  210;  investment  in,  218; 
revenue  from,  xxvi,  109 

trade:  decline  in,  158;  employment  in, 
176;  under  Fatimids,  22 

trade  deficit,  159;  growth  of,  209 

trade  partners,  209-10 

trade  unions,  265 

training  institutes,  146,  147 

transportation,  xxvi,  157,  160-65;  im- 
provement of,  under  Ismail,  36-37 

Treaty  of  1841,  31 

Treaty  on  the  Nonproliferation  of  Nuclear 

Weapons  (NPT),  330-31 
Tripartite  Invasion  of  Sinai  (1956  War), 

xxiv,  4,  63,  283,  296-97;  Suez  Canal 

closed  after,  212 
Tripoli,  22 
Tucker,  Judith,  33 
Tughj,  Muhammad  ibn,  21 
Tulinid  dynasty,  21 
Tulun,  Ahman  ibn,  21,  135 
Tunis,  287 

Tunisia,  2 1 ;  training  in  Egypt  for  officers 
from,  319 


422 


Index 


Turco-Circassians,  4,  24,  32,  33,  38,  119 

Turkey,  30,  60,  279,  337 

Turks,  110,  140,  157,  294;  amirates  of, 
25;  conversion  of,  to  Islam,  23;  migra- 
tion of,  during  Abbasid  caliphate,  23; 
occupation  of  Anatolia  by,  24;  occupa- 
tion of  Baghdad  by,  23 

Tutankhamen,  11,  12 

Ubayd,  Atif,  240 
Ubayd,  Makram,  52 
Uganda,  96,  279 

ulama,  27,  135;  decline  of,  34-35,  136; 
and  Islamist  movement,  136;  in  middle 
class,  34;  in  nationalist  movement,  39 

Umar,  134 

Umayyad  caliphs,  134 

Umayyad  Dynasty,  20 

umdah:  village  headman,  33 

Umma  Party  (People's  Party),  45,  46; 

licensing  of,  87;  newspaper  of,  45 
UN.  See  United  Nations 
underemployment,  117,  178 
UNEF.  See  United  Nations  Emergency 

Force 

unemployment,  117,  176-78;  impact  of 
agricultural  mechanization  on,  196 

Union  of  Armenian  Evangelical  Churches 
in  the  Near  East,  143 

United  Arab  Emirates,  303,  329;  Egyp- 
tian workers  in,  109 

United  Arab  Republic,  xxiv,  65-66 

United  Arab  States,  66 

United  Nations  (UN),  54,  296 

United  Nations  Emergency  Force 
(UNEF),  64,  301;  removal  of,  69 

United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Or- 
ganization, 179 

United  Nations  International  Labour  Or- 
ganisation, 182 

United  Nations  Security  Council,  69; 
cease-fire  resolution  for  October  1973 
War,  78;  framework  for  settling  June 
1967  War,  71 

United  States,  xxvii,  xxxiii,  61,  69,  83, 
192,  300,  305,  330;  aid  sought  from, 
61;  air  raid  by,  on  Libya,  214;  demands 
by,  for  privatization,  206;  dependency 
on,  281,  286,  287;  economic  aid  from, 
xxvi,  166,  217;  Egyptians  working  in, 
109;  Egypt's  support  for,  in  Persian 
Gulf  war,  xxxi,  xxxii;  food  aid  from, 


181;  forgiveness  of  Egypt's  debt  by, 
xxvii;  influence  of,  in  Middle  East, 
284-85;  joint  military  exercises  with, 
332;  joint  naval  exercises  with,  314; 
military  aid  from,  xxvi,  xxxiv,  217, 
285,  322,  331,  332;  military  aid  to  Is- 
rael, 73;  military  credits  from,  324; 
military  materiel  from,  249,  307-10, 
311,  312,  314,  329,  331-32,  333;  mili- 
tary personnel  stationed  in  Egypt,  332; 
military  training  of  Egyptians  in,  312, 
319,  331;  offer  of  loan  for  Aswan  High 
Dam,  62,  194;  opposition  to  United 
Arab  Republic,  66;  reaction  of,  to 
Camp  David  Accords,  74;  reaction  of, 
to  Tripartite  Invasion,  63-64;  role  of, 
in  economic  restructuring,  223;  turn 
toward,  81,  246 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID),  109-10,  118,  148; 
demands  by,  for  privatization,  206; 
support  from,  for  telephone  system  up- 
grade, 160 

United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disar- 
mament Agency  (AC DA),  322,  333 

United  States  Central  Command,  332 

United  States-Egyptian  relations:  im- 
provement in,  248,  269,  281,  286;  need 
for,  229-30;  suspension  of,  229 

United  States  Rapid  Development  Force, 
332 

unskilled  laborers,  118 
upper  class,  119 

Upper  Egypt,  7,  16,  57,  99,  100;  agricul- 
ture in,  179;  anti-British  demonstra- 
tions in,  47;  cities  of,  108;  control  of, 
by  Muhammad  Ali,  28;  drainage  in, 
195;  feudal  system  in,  9;  gods  of,  7; 
governorates  of,  95;  infant  mortality  in, 
150;  minorities  in,  110;  religious  clashes 
in,  142;  schistosomiasis  in,  150;  school 
enrollment  rajes  in,  146-47;  separation 
of,  from  Lower  Egypt,  11;  temperature 
in,  103;  unification  of,  with  Lower 
Egypt,  xxiii,  3,  18;  villagers  in,  122 

Urabi,  Ahmad,  39,  40,  41,  42,  45;  banish- 
ment of,  42;  war  declared  on  Brit- 
ain by,  40  ,  295 

Urabists,  40 

urbanization:  in  ancient  Egypt,  7;  creation 
of  middle  and  working  classes  by,  114; 
growth  rates,  105;  impact  of,  94,  105; 
since  World  War  II,  105 


423 


Egypt:  A  Country  Study 


urban  planning,  107 
urban-rural  relations,  123 
Uthman  (caliph),  134 
Uthman,  Uthman  Ahmad.  See  Osman, 
Osman  Ahmad 


Valley  of  the  Kings,  3,  11 

Verdi,  Giuseppe,  107 

village  organization,  123-24 

villagers:  divorce  among,  129;  endogamous 
marriage  among,  126;  occupations  of, 
122;  population,  122;  remittances  to,  123 

Voice  of  Palestine,  73 

Wadi  Haifa,  99 

Wadi  Haifa  salient,  95 

wafd  to  Paris  Peace  Conference,  46,  47,  48 

Wafdist  government,  52 

Wafd  Party,  46,  50,  57,  81,  269;  British  at- 
tempt to  destroy,  49;  demonstrations 
against,  5;  deportation  of  members  of, 
47;  desire  of,  to  make  treaty  with  Brit- 
ain, 50;  failure  of,  to  effect  reform,  51; 
power  of,  49;  representation  of,  in  Peo- 
ple's Assembly,  87;  repression  of,  266; 
resurrection  of,  52,  55,  87 

wages,  172,  178-79 

Wali,  Yusuf,  240 

war,  305 

War  of  Attrition,  299-300;  cause  of,  72, 
285;  cease-fire  in,  73,  300;  Sadat's  plans 
for,  285 

water  resources,  xxvi 

wazir,  22 

weapons  proliferation,  xxxi 

West  Bank,  xxx,  54,  68,  84;  capture  of,  by 
Israelis,  69;  Egypt's  condemnation  of  Is- 
raeli settlement  on,  xxxi;  Israeli  settle- 
ments on,  83 

Western  Desert  (Libyan  Desert),  xxvi,  96, 
100-1 ,  110;  Air  Defense  Force  stationed 
in,  315;  beduins  in,  110,  112;  Berbers 
in,  110-11;  governorates  in,  101;  natur- 
al gas  in,  199;  oil  in,  198;  transporta- 
tion to,  160;  troops  stationed  in,  307 

Westernization,  139,  283 

West  Germany.  See  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany 

wheat,  181;  as  basic  staple,  190;  govern- 
ment procurement  quotas  for,  187; 


grants,  208-9;  production,  190;  yields, 
192 

White  Nile,  96,  99 

Wilson,  Woodrow,  46 

Wingate,  Sir  Reginald,  46,  47-48 

Wissa,  Muna  Fahmi,  47 

Wolsley,  Sir  Garnet,  42 

women:  anti-British  demonstrations  by, 
47;  attitudes  toward,  127-29;  child- 
bearing  by,  127;  child  custody  by,  128, 
129;  divorce  and,  127,  128,  129;  edu- 
cation of,  and  infant  mortality,  151; 
education  opportunities,  75,  144;  em- 
ployment opportunities,  75,  130,  187; 
marriage  and,  127,  128;  under  personal 
status  law,  129,  258;  position  of,  in 
family,  126;  position  of,  in  patrilineage, 
126,  127;  power  of,  127;  in  professions , 
130;  representation  of,  in  parliament, 
255;  segregation  of,  128,  139;  status  of, 
130;  in  training  institutes,  146;  veiling 
of,  128,  139;  in  work  force,  130 

women's  rights  law.  See  personal  status 
law 

workers  abroad,  108,  109,  213 
workers'  remittances,  212-14;  amount  of, 
109;  exchange  rate  for,  171;  impact  of, 
on  economy,  158,  213,  250;  as  income 
supplement  for  lower  class,  117,  118; 
as  income  supplement  for  rural  poor, 
123;  under  infitah,  166;  influence  of,  on 
current  account  balance,  210,  215,  216; 
in  1970,  213;  revenues  tied  to,  172 
working  class:  composition  of,  34;  con- 
ditions of,  under  Nasser,  75;  created  by 
urbanization,  114;  rise  of,  44;  seats 
reserved  in  parliament  for,  67,  272 
World  Bank,  xxvi,  xxvii,  187;  contribu- 
tions to  Egypt  from,  xxviii;  drainage 
scheme  funded  by,  195;  classification 
of  Egypt,  199;  loans  from,  82,  200; 
offer  of  loan  for  Aswan  High  Dam,  62 
World  War  I,  43,  46,  158,  221 
World  War  II,  95,  221;  army  in,  295;  de- 
velopment of  armaments  industry  dur- 
ing, 328;  Egyptian  neutrality  in,  295; 
food  shortages  in,  186;  importance  of 
Egypt  to  Britain  during,  52;  industri- 
alization during,  202 

Yathrib  (Medina),  131 

Yawm  al  Jihad  (Day  of  Struggle),  46 


424 


Index 


Yemen:  attempt  at  union  with,  66;  con- 
trol of,  by  Ayyubids,  23;  Egyptian 
troops  in,  66,  297;  as  part  of  Egyptian 
Fatimid  Empire,  21;  as  supporter  of 
Iraq  in  Persian  Gulf  war,  xxxii 

Yemen  Arab  Republic  (North  Yemen), 
xxxii,  284;  as  member  of  Arab  Cooper- 
ation Council,  210;  refugees  from,  110 

Young  Egypt  Party  (Misr  al  Fatah), 
xxix,  51-53;  detention  of  members  of, 
in  concentration  camps,  55;  ideology 
of,  269 

Yugoslavia,  61 


Yunis,  Mahmud,  62 

Zaafaranah  power  complex,  199 
Zaghlul,  Saad,  46,  47,  48,  50;  as  prime 

minister,  50;  resignation  of,  50 
Zaghlul,  Safia,  47 
Zaire,  279,  303 
zar  ceremony,  137 
Zas  Passenger  Service,  164 
Zeus,  14 
Zhou  Enlai,  61 
Zifta,  49 
Zionism,  242 


425 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

427 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

JJv    1 Ua 

PnlnnH 
JTUldllU 

550-97 

T  T T*ll  (Tl  1  \T 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

30U— / U 

Senegal 

30U— O / 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

ft  U.S.  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING  OFFICE:     1992  311-824/60001 


428 


PIN:  004207-000 


