area  handbook  series 


El  Salvador 

a  country  study 


- 


o 


El  Salvador 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Richard  A.  Haggerty 
Research  Completed 
November  1988 


On  the  cover:  Vendors  and  customers  at  a  produce  market 


Second  Edition,  1990;  First  Printing,  1990. 

Copyright  ®1990  United  States  Government  as  represented  by 
the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  All  rights  reserved. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study. 

Area  handbook  series,  DA  Pam  550-150 
Research  completed  November  1988. 
Bibliography:  pp.  269-83. 
Includes  index. 

1.  El  Salvador  I.  Haggerty,  Richard  A.,  1954-      .  II.  Library  of 
Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Area  handbook  for  El 
Salvador.  IV.  Series.  V.  Series:  DA  Pam  :  550-150. 

F1483.B55  1990 

972.84— dc20       — dc20  89-48948 

CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-150 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


111 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  Howard  I. 
Blutstein,  Elinor  C.  Betters,  John  Cobb,  Jr.,  Jonathan  A.  Leonard, 
and  Charles  M.  Townsend,  who  wrote  the  1970  edition  of  El 
Salvador:  A  Country  Study.  Their  work  lent  perspective  to  several  chap- 
ters of  the  present  volume.  The  authors  also  are  grateful  to  individ- 
uals in  various  agencies  of  the  United  States  government  and 
international  and  private  institutions  who  gave  of  their  time, 
research  materials,  and  special  knowledge  to  provide  information 
and  perspective. 

The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  those  who  contributed  directly 
to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  include  Richard  F. 
Nyrop,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  Sandra  W.  Meditz,  who  reviewed  drafts  and  provid- 
ed valuable  advice  on  all  aspects  of  production;  Dennis  M. 
Hanratty,  who  contributed  useful  and  substantive  comments  on 
several  chapter  drafts;  Martha  E.  Hopkins,  Patricia  Mollela,  Ruth 
Nieland,  and  Michael  Pleasants,  who  edited  portions  of  the 
manuscript;  Marilyn  Majeska,  who  also  edited  portions  of  the 
manuscript  and  managed  production;  Barbara  Edgerton,  Janie  L. 
Gilchrist,  and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word  processing;  Andrea 
T.  Merrill,  who  performed  the  final  prepublication  editorial  review; 
Shirley  Kessel,  who  compiled  the  index;  and  Malinda  B.  Neale 
of  the  Printing  and  Processing  Section,  Library  of  Congress,  who 
prepared  the  camera-ready  copy  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy 
Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto,  Sandra  K.  Ferrell,  and  Kimberly  A.  Lord 
provided  invaluable  graphics  support.  David  P.  Cabitto  also 
designed  the  cover  and  illustrations  for  the  title  page  of  each  chap- 
ter. Susan  M.  Lender  reviewed  the  map  drafts,  which  were  pre- 
pared by  Harriett  R.  Blood,  David  P.  Cabitto,  and  Kimberly  A. 
Lord.  Various  individuals,  libraries,  and  public  agencies  provided 
photographs. 

Finally,  the  authors  would  like  to  thank  several  individuals  who 
provided  research  support.  Arvies  J.  Staton  supplied  information 
on  ranks  and  insignia,  and  Timothy  L.  Merrill  wrote  the  geogra- 
phy section  in  Chapter  2. 


v 


Contents 


Page 


Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface                                          ,  .   xi 

Country  Profile     xiii 

Introduction      xix 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Richard  A.  Haggerty 

SPANISH  CONQUEST  AND  COLONIZATION    4 

EL  SALVADOR  AND  THE  UNITED  PROVINCES  OF 

CENTRAL  AMERICA   7 

THE  COFFEE  REPUBLIC    9 

The  Oligarchy  and  the  Liberal  State   9 

Economic  Crisis  and  Repression   ,   14 

REPRESSION  AND  REFORM  UNDER  MILITARY 

RULE   16 

THE  CHRISTIAN  DEMOCRATS:  A  CENTRIST 

ALTERNATIVE?    21 

The  1969  War  with  Honduras   ,   24 

Dashed  Hopes:  The  1972  Elections    26 

THE  1970s:  THE  ROAD  TO  REVOLT    30 

THE  REFORMIST  COUP  OF  1979    33 

THE  CIVIL  CONFLICT  BEGINS    39 

THE  UNITED  STATES  TAKES  A  HAND    41 

THE  "DEMOCRATIC  PROCESS"    43 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment  ....  47 

Mary  W.  Helms 

GEOGRAPHY    49 

Geology    49 

Physical  Features   50 

Climate    51 

POPULATION    53 

Demographic  Trends   54 

Population  Growth  and  Age  Distribution    56 

THE  STRUCTURE  OF  SOCIETY   59 

The  Upper  Sector    60 


vii 


The  Lower  Sector    62 

The  Middle  Sector    64 

Indians    66 

RURAL  LIFE   67 

Standard  of  Living    67 

Health  and  Welfare   69 

Education    73 

MIGRATION    74 

URBAN  LIFE   77 

Urbanization    77 

Quality  of  Life   79 

SOCIAL  DYNAMICS    85 

Agrarian  Reform    85 

Revolutionary  Groups    88 

The  Role  of  Religion   91 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    99 

Donald  E.  Jacobson  and  David  B.  Ehrenthal 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   102 

Income  Distribution    105 

Sectors  of  the  Economy   105 

The  Labor  Force    108 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    110 

Monetary  and  Credit  Policies    110 

Allocation  of  Government  Expenditures    115 

AGRICULTURE   118 

The  Land  Tenure  System    118 

Major  Crops  and  Commodities    120 

INDUSTRY    126 

Manufacturing   126 

Other  Leading  Industries    128 

INFRASTRUCTURE   129 

Transportation   130 

Communications    131 

Energy   131 

FOREIGN  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS   133 

Balance  of  Payments  and  the  External  Sector    133 

Trade  and  Trade  Policy   134 

Direct  Foreign  Investment  and  External  Debt   137 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics    141 

Richard  A.  Haggerty 

CONSTITUTIONAL  BACKGROUND    144 


viii 


The  Constitutions  of  El  Salvador,  1824-1962    144 

The  Constitution  of  1983    145 

GOVERNMENTAL  INSTITUTIONS    152 

The  Executive    152 

The  Legislature    153 

The  Judiciary    155 

The  Military    156 

Local  Government   158 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    159 

Electoral  Procedures    159 

The  Electoral  Process    162 

Political  Parties    163 

Interest  Groups    173 

Mass  Communications    180 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    182 

Relations  with  the  United  States    182 

The  Crisis  in  Central  America    186 

Relations  with  Other  Nations    192 

Chapter  5.  National  Security   195 

Rex  A.  Hudson 

EVOLUTION  OF  THE  MILITARY'S  ROLE  IN 

SOCIETY  AND  GOVERNMENT    199 

The  Oligarchy's  Private  Army,  1824-1931    199 

The  Military  in  Power,  1931-84    200 

The  Military  under  Democratic  Rule,  1984-88    204 

THE  ARMED  FORCES    208 

Mission  and  Organization    208 

Defense  Budget    209 

Military  Service   209 

Ranks,  Uniforms,  and  Insignia   212 

Capabilities    213 

Civic  Action    217 

EDUCATION,  TRAINING,  AND  RULES  OF 

CONDUCT   218 

Military  Schools    218 

Officer  Corps  Dynamics    219 

Military  Justice    220 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  INFLUENCE  AND 

ASSISTANCE   223 

THE  SECURITY  FORCES    227 

Historical  Background    227 

Mission  and  Organization    229 

FOREIGN  SECURITY  ASSISTANCE    231 


ix 


THREATS  TO  INTERNAL  SECURITY    232 

Right-Wing  Extremism    234 

Left-Wing  Extremism    236 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   250 

The  Criminal  Justice  System   250 

Penal  and  Procedural  Codes    256 

The  Penal  System    258 

Appendix.  Tables    261 

Bibliography    269 

Glossary    285 

Index   289 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  El  Salvador,  1988   xviii 

2  Middle  America,  1988    8 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    52 

4  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1985    .  .  58 

5  Estimated  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector, 

1986    106 

6  Employment  by  Sector,  1987    108 

7  Transportation  System,  1988    132 

8  Organization  of  the  Government,  1988    154 

9  Armed  Forces  Chain  of  Command,  1988    210 

10  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1988    214 

11  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1988    215 


x 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  com- 
pact and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social,  political,  economic, 
and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  El  Salvador.  Sources  of  in- 
formation included  scholarly  books,  journals,  and  monographs;  offi- 
cial reports  of  governments  and  international  organizations; 
numerous  periodicals;  and  interviews  with  individuals  having  spe- 
cial competence  in  Salvadoran  and  Latin  American  affairs.  Chap- 
ter bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  comments 
on  sources  recommended  for  further  reading  appear  at  the  end  of 
each  chapter.  Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  con- 
version table  is  provided  to  assist  readers  unfamiliar  with  metric 
measurements  (see  table  1,  Appendix).  A  glossary  is  also  included. 

Although  there  are  numerous  variations,  Spanish  surnames 
generally  consist  of  two  parts:  the  patrilineal  name  followed  by  the 
matrilineal.  In  the  instance  of  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes,  for 
example,  Duarte  is  his  father's  name  and  Fuentes  his  mother's 
maiden  name.  In  nonformal  use,  the  matrilineal  name  is  often 
dropped.  Thus,  after  the  first  mention,  just  Duarte  is  used.  A 
minority  of  individuals  use  only  the  patrilineal  name.  El  Salvador 
also  abounds  in  political  and  other  organizational  acronyms.  Where 
discrepancies  existed,  the  form  most  frequently  employed  in  the 
country  itself  has  been  used. 


xi 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  El  Salvador. 
Short  Form:  El  Salvador. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Salvadoran(s). 
Capital:  San  Salvador. 

Geography 

Size:  Approximately  21,041  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Two  parallel  mountain  ranges  running  east  to  west 
divide  country  into  two  regions:  mountains  and  central  plateau, 
and  coastal  plains  (Pacific  lowlands).  Southern  mountain  range 
made  up  of  more  than  twenty  volcanoes.  Eruptions  rare,  but 


xiii 


earthquakes  frequent  because  of  location  at  conjunction  of  three 
geologic  plates.  Rio  Lempa  only  navigable  river.  Numerous  vol- 
canic lakes  in  interior  highlands. 

Climate:  Tropical  climate  with  pronounced  wet  and  dry  seasons; 
rainy  season  (winter)  from  May  to  October,  dry  season  (summer) 
from  November  through  April.  Temperatures  vary  with  elevation 
and  show  little  seasonal  change.  Pacific  lowlands  uniformly  hot; 
central  plateau  and  mountain  areas  more  moderate. 

Society 

Population:  Population  estimated  at  5.4  million  in  1988.  Rate  of 
annual  growth  estimated  at  2.4  percent  in  1980s. 

Language:  Spanish  official  language  and  spoken  by  virtually  all 
Salvadorans.  Some  traces  of  Indian  languages,  but  no  segment  of 
population  linguistically  distinct. 

Ethnic  Groups:  In  late  1980s,  about  89  percent  of  population  mes- 
tizo (Spanish  and  Indian),  10  percent  Indian,  and  1  percent  un- 
mixed Caucasian. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Approximately  69  percent  of  popula- 
tion ten  years  or  older  considered  literate  in  early  1980s.  Higher 
rate  of  literacy  in  urban  than  in  rural  areas.  Public  education  sys- 
tem included  one  year  of  preschool,  nine  years  of  basic  education, 
and  three  years  secondary  education.  Major  universities  National 
University  of  El  Salvador  and  Jesuit-run  Central  American  Univer- 
sity Jose  Simeon  Canas. 

Health:  Serious  malnutrition,  particularly  among  young  children. 
Malaria,  enteritis,  and  pneumonia  most  serious  diseases.  Medical 
attention  to  general  population  inadequate,  especially  in  rural  areas. 

Religion:  Overwhelmingly  Roman  Catholic,  although  Protestant 
missionary  groups,  especially  evangelicals,  active  and  continued 
to  make  significant  number  of  converts. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  Approximately  US$4.6  billion 
in  1986,  or  US$938  per  capita.  Growth  extremely  modest  from 
1983  through  1986,  averaging  about  1.5  percent  annually. 

Agriculture:  Accounted  for  about  24  percent  of  GDP  in  1986. 
Production  of  export  commodities  predominated.  Coffee  major 
crop,  accounting  for  half  of  export  earnings  in  1987.  Sugar  and 


xiv 


cotton  other  major  exports.  Agriculture  adversely  affected  during 
1980s  by  insurgent  conflict,  uneven  implementation  of  agrarian 
reform,  and  inconsistent  government  policies. 

Industry:  Accounted  for  over  20  percent  of  GDP  in  1986,  with 
manufacturing  accounting  for  most  sectoral  activity  (17.4  percent 
of  GDP).  Also  included  construction  (3.1  percent  of  GDP)  and  some 
mining  (0.1  percent  of  GDP).  Manufacturing  concentrated  in  food 
processing,  tobacco  products,  textiles,  and  clothing.  Output  declined 
seriously  during  1980s  as  result  of  guerrilla  sabotage  (mainly  attacks 
on  electrical  grid),  capital  flight,  and  labor  unrest. 

Services:  Almost  50  percent  of  GDP  in  1986.  Services  tended  to 
follow  prevailing  trends  in  economy  as  a  whole.  Included  trans- 
portation, commerce,  insurance,  health  care,  utilities,  and  other 
public  services. 

Currency:  Colon,  consisting  of  100  centavos.  Unified  exchange 
rate  of  c5  to  US$1  established  in  November  1986. 

Imports:  Approximately  US$975  million  in  1987.  Raw  materials 
accounted  for  over  50  percent  of  imports,  followed  by  consumer 
goods  (24  percent)  and  capital  goods  (23  percent). 

Exports:  Approximately  US$591  million  in  1987,  representing 
decline  of  over  21  percent  compared  with  1986  figures,  mostly  be- 
cause of  drop  in  coffee  prices.  Agricultural  commodities  (coffee, 
sugar,  and  cotton)  made  up  bulk  of  exports. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Overall  positive  balance  maintained  dur- 
ing late  1980s  despite  significant  trade  deficit.  Major  compensat- 
ing factors  large  inflows  of  foreign  aid — mostly  from  United 
States — and  remittances  from  Salvadorans  living  abroad  (again, 
mainly  in  United  States). 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  Although  government  expenditures  in  mid-1980s 
remained  fairly  stable  relative  to  GDP,  overall  budget  deficit 
reached  5.4  percent  of  GDP  in  1986.  Deficit  financing  accomplished 
primarily  through  Central  Reserve  Bank  of  El  Salvador,  although 
public  enterprises  and  development  programs  relied  heavily  on  for- 
eign aid  and  international  loans. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads:  Over  10,000  kilometers,  of  which  about  1,500  paved.  Major 
arteries  Pan  American  Highway  and  Carretera  Litoral. 


xv 


Railroads:  Total  system  just  over  600  kilometers,  380  kilometers 
of  which  owned  by  Salvador  Railways,  nationalized  by  government 
in  mid-1960s. 

Ports:  Two  major  ports — Acajutla  and  La  Union.  Minor  ports  at 
La  Libertad  and  Puerto  El  Triunfo. 

Airports:  Ilopango  International  Airport  only  airport  capable  of 
accommodating  jet  aircraft  in  late  1980s.  Ninety-five  usable  air- 
fields throughout  country,  although  only  five  paved. 

Telecommunications:  System  not  highly  developed  despite  sig- 
nificant growth  during  1960s  and  1970s.  Internal  and  external  sys- 
tems suffered  regular  and  significant  damage  from  guerrilla  sabotage 
throughout  1980s.  All  services  provided  by  National  Telecommu- 
nications Administration  (Administration  Nacional  de  Telecomun- 
icaciones — Antel),  a  public  enterprise. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Under  1983  Constitution,  elected  representative 
government  divided  into  three  branches.  President,  vice  president, 
and  Council  of  Ministers  (cabinet)  comprise  executive  branch. 
President  directly  elected  for  five-year  term  and  may  not  be  re- 
elected; also  serves  as  constitutional  commander  in  chief  of  armed 
forces.  Unicameral,  sixty-member  Legislative  Assembly  consti- 
tutes legislative  branch.  Judicial  branch  headed  by  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice;  below  Supreme  Court  are  chambers  of  second  instance, 
courts  of  first  instance,  and  justice  of  the  peace  courts.  Magistrates 
appointed  by  Legislative  Assembly  to  fixed  terms.  Governors  of 
departments  (states)  appointed  by  president;  mayors  and  municipal 
council  members  directly  elected.  Military  exerts  political  influence, 
particularly  on  issues  relating  to  national  security,  but  active-duty 
military  personnel  constitutionally  prohibited  from  seeking  office. 

Politics:  Long  characterized  by  military  rule  supporting  dominance 
of  economic  elite,  in  late  1980s  political  system  still  adapting  to 
demands  for  free  elections,  representative  democracy,  and  more 
open  public  discourse.  Civil  conflict  between  government  forces 
and  Marxist  guerrillas  greatly  exacerbated  political  polarization 
rooted  in  historical  dichotomy  between  wealthy  elite  and  im- 
poverished and  excluded  majority.  In  late  1980s,  the  two  major 
political  parties  were  the  moderate,  center-left  Christian  Democratic 
Party  (Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC)  and  the  right-wing  Na- 
tionalist Republican  Alliance  (Alianza  Republicana  Nacionalista — 
Arena).  As  of  late  1988,  PDC  held  presidency,  but  Arena  had  one- 
seat  majority  in  Legislative  Assembly. 


xvi 


International  Relations:  Mainly  limited  to  Central  American 
region  until  1980s,  when  civil  conflict  made  El  Salvador  focus  of 
international  attention.  Relations  with  United  States  became  in- 
creasingly important  during  1 980s  because  of  critical  contribution 
of  United  States  economic  and  military  aid  to  survival  of  elected 
government,  bolstering  of  war-ravaged  economy,  and  improved 
performance  of  armed  forces.  Government  of  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte 
Fuentes  participated  actively  in  Contadora  process,  a  joint  Latin 
American  mediating  effort  seeking  to  ease  Central  American  ten- 
sions through  diplomatic  negotiations.  Duarte  signed  Central 
American  Peace  Agreement,  product  of  unmediated  talks  among 
the  Central  American  states,  in  August  1987. 

International  Agreements  and  Membership:  Party  to  Inter- 
American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assistance  (Rio  Treaty).  Also  mem- 
ber of  Organization  of  American  States,  Central  American  Com- 
mon Market,  United  Nations,  and  several  of  its  specialized  agencies: 
World  Bank,  International  Monetary  Fund,  and  Inter-American 
Development  Bank. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Salvadoran  armed  forces  included  army,  air  force, 
navy,  and  security  forces  (National  Guard,  National  Police,  and 
Treasury  Police).  Total  strength  about  59,000  in  late  1980s— 47,000 
regular  armed  forces  and  12,600  security  forces. 

Organization:  Country  divided  into  six  military  zones  and  four- 
teen subordinate  military  regions.  In  1980s  army  consisted  of  six 
infantry  brigades,  nine  cadre  infantry  regiments,  one  mechanized 
cavalry  regiment,  one  artillery  brigade,  one  engineer  battalion,  six 
independent  immediate-reaction  battalions,  and  seven  detachments. 
Air  force  made  up  of  four  squadrons  of  fixed- wing  aircraft  and  one 
helicopter  squadron.  Air  force  antiaircraft  artillery  battalion  and 
paratrooper  battalion  manned  by  army  personnel.  Navy,  in  addi- 
tion to  coastal  patrol  units  based  mainly  at  La  Union,  included 
Marine  Infantry  Battalion  and  commando  unit. 

Equipment:  Most  weaponry,  especially  after  1980,  supplied  by 
United  States,  although  some  aircraft  of  Brazilian  and  French 
manufacture. 

Police:  Responsibilities  divided  among  components  of  security 
forces:  National  Police  handled  urban  security;  National  Guard, 
rural  security;  and  Treasury  Police  (including  customs  and  im- 
migration), border  control. 


xvii 


xviii 


Introduction 


EVENTS  IN  EL  SALVADOR  assumed  worldwide  prominence 
in  the  late  1970s  as  political  and  social  tensions  fueled  a  violent 
civil  conflict  that  persisted  throughout  the  1980s.  The  intense  con- 
troversy and  scrutiny  accorded  this  diminutive  nation  ran  counter 
to  the  relative  obscurity  that  had  characterized  it  during  its  colonial 
and  national  history.  A  backwater  of  the  Spanish  Empire,  El  Sal- 
vador passed  through  the  turbulent  era  of  the  Central  American 
Federation  (1823-41)  to  separate  independence  as  a  liberal  state 
dominated  both  politically  and  economically  by  a  landed  oli- 
garchy (see  The  Coffee  Republic,  ch.  1).  The  roots  of  this  elite- 
dominated  system  lie  in  Spanish  colonial  structures;  the  system 
bequeathed  to  modern  El  Salvador  a  legacy  of  economic  and  so- 
cial inequality  and  political  authoritarianism — not  a  promising  base 
on  which  to  build  a  democratic  state. 

For  many  Salvadorans,  land  tenure  crystallizes  the  inequality 
of  their  society.  Historically,  the  elite  held  title  to  most  of  the  produc- 
tive arable  land.  This  was  especially  true  by  the  late  nineteenth 
century  after  the  abolition  of  Indian  communal  lands  known  as 
ejidos  and  the  consequent  seizure  of  the  bulk  of  those  lands  by  pri- 
vate owners.  Although  the  desire  for  land  reform  has  been  strong 
throughout  Salvadoran  history,  no  effective  change  in  the  concen- 
tration of  land  took  place  until  1980,  when  a  military-civilian  junta 
government  decreed  a  three-phase  program  (see  The  Reformist 
Coup  of  1979,  ch.  1).  The  impact  of  the  1980  reforms  is  undenia- 
ble; their  scope  and  significance  for  the  future  of  the  country, 
however,  are  matters  of  continuing  controversy.  This  volume  at- 
tempts to  synthesize  divergent  opinions  on  this  question,  noting 
both  the  accomplishments  and  the  limitations  of  the  reforms  (see 
Agrarian  Reform,  ch.  2;  The  Land  Tenure  System,  ch.  3;  The 
Constitution  of  1983,  ch.  4).  Although  the  term  agrarian  reform  is 
commonly  applied  to  the  Salvadoran  effort,  the  term  land  reform 
more  correctly  describes  the  program  because  it  failed  to  follow 
up  the  transfer  of  ownership  with  credit  and  other  forms  of  support. 

El  Salvador's  history  of  dependence  on  the  export  of  a  single 
agricultural  commodity — first  cacao,  then  indigo,  then  coffee — 
locked  the  country  into  a  "boom  and  bust"  economic  cycle  that 
persists  to  this  day  (see  Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy, 
ch.  3).  Apart  from  its  purely  economic  effects,  such  as  wide  fluc- 
tuations in  foreign  exchange,  domestic  income,  and  employment, 
this  system  also  weakened  the  country's  security.  Failure  to  diversify 


xix 


and  the  consequent  heavy  reliance  on  exports  of  coffee  and  the  other 
two  leading  commodities,  cotton  and  sugar,  made  producers, 
processors,  and  distributors  of  those  products  the  targets  of  attacks 
by  antigovernment  guerrilla  forces  that  sought  to  topple  the  na- 
tional economy  by  chipping  away  at  its  broad  underpinnings  (see 
Major  Crops  and  Commodities,  ch.  3).  The  economic  burden  of 
the  civil  conflict — estimated  at  approximately  US$2  billion  in  the 
1979-88  period — inhibited  any  effective  restructuring  and  further 
enhanced  the  importance  of  coffee  exports  as  the  major  source  of 
foreign  exchange  and  the  only  viable  short-term  alternative  to  con- 
tinued infusions  of  economic  aid  from  the  United  States. 

Throughout  most  of  El  Salvador's  history,  traditions  of  politi- 
cal authoritarianism  accompanied  by  repression  by  the  military  and 
the  security  forces  had  led  to  a  generally  exclusionary  political 
process  that  only  occasionally  produced  limited  reforms  in  areas 
such  as  education  and  public  welfare  (see  Repression  and  Reform 
under  Military  Rule,  ch.  1).  As  was  the  case  in  other  aspects  of 
Salvadoran  life,  however,  the  cycle  of  change  initiated  by  the 
reformist  military  coup  of  1979  and  driven  by  the  civil  conflict  also 
transformed  governmental  and  political  institutions.  With  en- 
couragement and  support  from  Washington,  the  Salvadorans 
promulgated  a  new  constitution  in  1983  that  allowed  for  the  free 
election  of  a  president,  members  of  a  Legislative  Assembly,  and 
municipal  representatives.  From  March  1982  to  March  1989,  voters 
cast  their  ballots  in  six  free  and  fair  elections.  Although  some  com- 
mentators have  rightly  noted  that  elections  alone  do  not  constitute 
democracy,  this  record  of  popular  participation  in  the  face  of  con- 
sistent and  violent  efforts  by  the  guerrillas  to  disrupt  balloting  should 
not  be  dismissed.  To  many  observers  the  participation  of  the  leftist 
Democratic  Convergence  (Convergencia  Democratica — CD)  in  the 
1989  presidential  election  suggested  that  the  system  was  approaching 
a  level  of  institutionalization  that  might  allow  it  to  incorporate  all 
political  sectors,  even  those  associated  with  the  previously  rejec- 
tionist  Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation  Front-Revolutionary 
Democratic  Front  (Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de  Liberation  Nacional- 
Frente  Democratico  Revolucionario — FMLN-FDR). 

Although  the  connections  were  not  as  clear  as  FMLN-FDR 
propagandists  asserted,  the  continuing  civil  conflict  did  have  some 
precursors  in  such  uprisings  as  Anastasio  Aquino's  rebellion  in  1833 
and  the  1932  rural  insurrection  led  by  communist  organizers  such 
as  Agustin  Farabundo  Marti.  The  latter  incident,  fed  by  severe 
economic  distress  provoked  by  the  Great  Depression,  set  off  the 
military's  bloody  overreaction  {la  matanza),  in  which  thousands  of 
people,  mainly  Indian  campesinos,  perished  (see  Economic  Crisis 


xx 


and  Repression,  ch.  1).  Although  an  aberration  in  terms  of  its  scope, 
la  matanza  also  represented  a  warning  of  the  extreme  violence  that 
lay  beneath  the  surface  of  Salvadoran  life.  That  warning  rang  out 
again,  in  a  more  complex  social  and  political  context,  in  the  1970s. 

Most  commentators  agree  that  the  refusal  of  the  military  to  recog- 
nize the  victory  of  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes,  one  of  the  found- 
ers of  the  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata 
Cristiano — PDC),  in  the  1972  presidential  elections  set  in  motion 
a  chain  of  events  that  led  directly  to  the  violent  civil  conflict  that 
afflicted  the  country  throughout  the  1980s  (see  Dashed  Hopes:  The 
1972  Elections,  ch.  1).  The  failure  of  the  system  to  respond  to  the 
legitimate  political  aspirations  of  an  emerging  middle  class  strength- 
ened the  arguments  of  those  on  the  fringes  of  the  political  spec- 
trum who  preached  a  revolutionary  doctrine.  The  diverse  coalition 
that  initially  supported  the  violent  overthrow  of  the  military  govern- 
ment included  students,  disillusioned  politicians  of  a  leftist  or 
progressive  stripe,  "liberationist"  Roman  Catholic  clergy  and  lay- 
men, peasants,  and  guerrilla/terrorist  groups  with  ties  to  Cuba  and, 
after  1979,  to  the  Sandinista  government  in  Nicaragua  (see  The 
1970s:  The  Road  to  Revolt,  ch.  1;  Revolutionary  Groups,  ch.  2; 
Left- Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  The  latter  groups  saw  themselves 
as  the  vanguard  of  a  revolution.  The  escalation  of  terrorism  and 
paramilitary  violence  in  the  early  1980s  by  both  rightist  and  leftist 
forces  further  restricted  the  range  of  political  action  in  El  Salvador; 
at  the  same  time,  the  perception  that  the  guerrilla  forces  sought 
to  redress  socioeconomic  inequities  brought  them  adherents  at  home 
and  supporters  abroad. 

The  reformist  military  coup  of  1979  was  an  effort  by  concerned 
sectors  of  the  armed  forces  to  provide  an  alternative  to  leftist  revo- 
lution and  to  prevent  El  Salvador  from  becoming  "another  Nic- 
aragua. ' '  Although  much  of  the  original  promise  of  the  coup,  e.g. , 
significant  agrarian  reform,  never  materialized,  the  action  by  the 
armed  forces  altered  the  trend  of  events  by  reintroducing  Duarte 's 
PDC  into  the  political  arena  and  by  providing  an  entree  for  the 
United  States  government  to  play  a  major  role  in  funding  and 
fashioning  a  political  and  military  response  to  the  country's  crisis. 
Without  United  States  support,  it  is  likely  that  the  guerrilla  forces, 
which  united  under  the  banner  of  the  FMLN  in  1980,  would  have 
taken  power  or  forced  a  coalition  government  by  1983-84.  With 
Washington's  support  and  active  involvement,  the  armed  forces 
expanded  both  their  force  levels  and  their  equipment  inventory, 
forcing  the  FMLN  to  adopt  the  classic  guerrilla  tactics  of  hit-and- 
run  attack,  sabotage,  intimidation,  propaganda,  and  rural  mobili- 
zation. 


xxi 


The  nature  and  proper  description  of  the  conflict  between  govern- 
ment forces  and  adherents  of  the  FMLN-FDR  have  been  the  sub- 
ject of  some  debate.  This  volume  has  chosen  to  employ  the  term 
civil  conflict  for  several  reasons.  Although  the  term  civil  war  is  fre- 
quently applied  to  the  conflict  in  the  North  American  press  and 
elsewhere,  the  scope  of  the  conflict  and  the  estimated  level  of  popular 
support  for  the  FMLN-FDR  were  judged  to  be  insufficient  to  justify 
that  description.  Other  observers,  particularly  in  the  early  1980s, 
have  described  the  "Salvadoran  Revolution"  as  a  movement  similar 
to  that  which  brought  the  Sandinista  National  Liberation  Front 
(Frente  Sandinista  de  Liberacion  Nacional — FSLN)  to  power  in 
Nicaragua.  The  post- 1983  narrowing  of  the  Salvadoran  conflict 
in  both  military  and  political  terms,  however,  rendered  it  closer 
to  an  insurgency  than  to  a  true  revolution;  therefore,  the  term  in- 
surgency is  also  utilized  throughout  the  volume,  usually  in  a  mili- 
tary context.  In  the  broader  sense,  however,  insurgency  is  too 
limited  a  description,  given  the  level  of  social  upheaval  that  ac- 
companied the  initiation  of  hostilities  in  the  early  1980s,  the  sup- 
port (however  unquantifiable)  for  the  FMLN-FDR  among  certain 
sectors  of  the  population,  the  crippling  economic  impact  of  guer- 
rilla attacks,  the  high  number  (some  late  1988  estimates  exceeded 
60,000)  of  fatalities  attributed  to  military  engagements  and  politi- 
cally motivated  violence,  and  the  unresolved  social  and  political 
tensions  that  still  prevail  in  El  Salvador.  The  term  civil  conflict  is 
thus  a  sort  of  compromise  and  is  employed  in  a  broad  political- 
military  sense. 

The  conflict  raged  on  several  fronts  in  1989.  In  the  field,  a  battle- 
hardened  and  politically  indoctrinated  corps  of  FMLN  guerrillas 
frustrated  the  efforts  of  the  armed  forces  to  eliminate  them  militarily. 
A  low-intensity  conflict,  marked  by  indecisive  armed  clashes  and 
a  constant  struggle  for  the  "hearts  and  minds"  of  the  rural  popu- 
lation, defined  the  efforts  of  both  sides.  On  the  political  front,  the 
electoral  process  represented  only  the  most  visible  arena  of  com- 
petition. The  judiciary,  inefficient  and  biased  in  favor  of  the  well- 
to-do,  exemplified  the  need  for  institutional  reform  if  El  Salvador 
wished  to  emerge  from  the  conflict  as  a  functional  society  governed 
by  the  rule  of  law.  The  Duarte  administration  (1984-89)  took  sev- 
eral steps  toward  reforming  the  judiciary,  but  much  remained  to 
be  accomplished  in  this  area  (see  The  Criminal  Justice  System, 
ch.  5). 

As  it  drew  to  a  close,  the  Duarte  government  appeared  bereft 
of  major  accomplishments.  Duarte 's  failure  to  end  the  civil  con- 
flict, to  stabilize  the  economy,  and  to  maintain  his  PDC  as  a  via- 
ble alternative  to  the  extremes  of  the  right  and  the  left  disappointed 


xxii 


many  of  his  followers  at  home  and  his  supporters  abroad.  Any  fair 
assessment  of  Duarte's  contribution,  however,  must  take  into  ac- 
count the  extremely  trying  circumstances  under  which  he  governed. 
With  the  civil  conflict  as  a  constant  backdrop,  Duarte  struggled 
to  exert  influence  over  a  military  institution  with  no  history  of  obe- 
dience to  civilian  authority;  to  implement  land  and  other  reforms 
in  the  face  of  determined  resistance  by  the  elite;  to  maintain  cru- 
cial economic  and  military  support  from  the  United  States;  and 
to  negotiate  an  honorable  settlement  with  the  FMLN-FDR.  The 
personal  stresses  of  the  1985  kidnapping  of  his  daughter  by  the 
FMLN  and  his  1988  diagnosis  of  terminal  liver  cancer  also  weighed 
heavily  on  him  and  may  well  have  affected  his  decision  making 
and  weakened  his  influence  over  the  armed  forces,  the  government, 
and  his  party.  Duarte  himself  admitted  in  May  1989  that  his  most 
significant  achievement  would  be  the  transfer  of  power  to  his  suc- 
cessor, Alfredo  Cristiani  Burkard.  This  would  be  the  first  transi- 
tion in  Salvadoran  history  from  one  elected  civilian  president  to 
another. 

The  new  president's  party,  the  Nationalist  Republican  Alliance 
(Alianza  Republicana  Nacionalista — Arena),  was  a  political  enig- 
ma to  most  observers.  Arena  presented  two  faces  to  the  world;  one 
was  Cristiani' s,  and  the  other  belonged  to  party  founder  Roberto 
D'Aubuisson  Arrieta.  The  image  fostered  by  Cristiani  and  his  fol- 
lowers was  one  of  comparative  political  moderation,  support  for 
free  enterprise,  a  desire  to  adjust  but  not  completely  repeal  the  previ- 
ously enacted  economic  reforms,  and  a  willingness  to  explore  op- 
tions for  resolving  the  civil  conflict,  possibly  through  negotiations 
with  the  FMLN-FDR.  Conversely,  D'Aubuisson's  faction  of  the 
party  reportedly  aspired  to  restore — to  the  extent  possible — the  eco- 
nomic order  and  landownership  pattern  that  had  prevailed  before 
the  1980  reforms  (see  The  Structure  of  Society,  ch.  2).  These  hard- 
line areneros  also  reportedly  favored  a  concept  of  "total  war"  against 
the  guerrillas.  Also  referred  to  as  the  "Guatemalan  solution"  after 
a  violent  style  of  counterinsurgency  waged  in  that  country  in  the 
mid-1980s,  such  an  approach  would  inevitably  entail  sharply  in- 
creased civilian  casualties.  In  the  minds  of  some  observers, 
D'Aubuisson's  reputed  ties  to  right-wing  death  squads  in  the  early 
1980s  also  called  up  the  specter  of  sharply  increased  levels  of  hu- 
man rights  violations  should  his  faction  prove  to  be  the  dominant 
one  within  the  party. 

Cristiani  garnered  an  absolute  majority  in  the  elections  of 
March  19,  1989,  taking  53  percent  of  the  vote;  the  runner-up,  PDC 
candidate  Fidel  Chavez  Mena,  drew  36  percent.  The  PDC's  fu- 
ture was  uncertain  because  of  a  lack  of  strong,  credible  leadership 


xxiii 


and  the  widespread  popular  disillusionment  stemming  from 
Duarte's  seemingly  ineffectual  rule.  The  party  enjoyed  a  firm 
organizational  base,  however,  and  almost  certainly  would  survive 
as  a  viable  opposition.  As  had  been  the  case  for  Arena,  the  prospects 
for  the  PDC  will  depend  to  a  great  extent  upon  the  performance 
of  the  party  in  power. 

Cristiani's  election  arguably  acquired  a  greater  legitimacy  than 
Duarte's  1984  victory  as  a  result  of  the  participation  of  the  CD, 
which  ran  as  its  presidential  candidate  Guillermo  Manuel  Ungo 
Revelo,  leader  of  the  FMLN's  political  arm,  the  FDR.  At  the  same 
time,  the  CD's  poor  electoral  showing  of  less  than  4  percent  called 
into  question  the  level  of  popular  support  for  the  FMLN-FDR  and 
for  the  left  in  general  after  years  of  civil  strife. 

As  his  June  1,  1989,  inauguration  approached,  Cristiani's  po- 
litical position  was  strong,  based  on  the  mandate  of  a  first-round 
electoral  victory,  his  party's  effective  control  of  all  three  branches 
of  government  (judicial  appointments  emanate  from  the  Legisla- 
tive Assembly),  and  the  recent  appointment  of  an  aggressive  chief 
of  the  Joint  General  Staff,  Colonel  Rene  Emilio  Ponce  Torres.  Al- 
though some  members  of  the  United  States  Congress  expressed 
concern  over  the  electoral  outcome  based  on  Arena's  violent  image 
and  history,  the  consensus  in  that  body  in  the  immediate  postelec- 
toral  period  appeared  to  favor  sustained  levels  of  aid  conditioned 
on  continued  efforts  by  the  Salvadorans  to  stem  human  rights  vio- 
lations by  military  and  paramilitary  groups.  Cristiani's  intentions 
with  regard  to  the  future  conduct  of  the  civil  conflict  remained  am- 
biguous during  the  interregnum.  His  position  on  negotiations  with 
the  FMLN  paralleled  that  of  outgoing  President  Duarte.  "We  are 
willing  to  talk,"  he  was  quoted  as  saying  during  the  presidential 
campaign,  "but  not  to  negotiate  any  platform."  From  this  view- 
point, the  Salvadoran  Constitution  and  government  are  established 
and  inviolable,  and  the  only  basis  for  negotiations  lies  in  the  in- 
tegration of  the  guerrillas  into  that  system.  The  leaders  of  the  FMLN 
showed  few  signs  of  accepting  this  course,  which  they  had  rejected 
several  times  in  the  past. 

The  FMLN  appeared  to  show  some  flexibility  in  its  negotiating 
stance  in  January  1989,  however,  when  it  announced  a  plan  under 
which  it  would  participate  in  and  recognize  the  results  of  the 
presidential  election  under  certain  conditions.  The  stipulations  in- 
cluded a  six-month  postponement  of  the  balloting,  enhanced  secu- 
rity guarantees  for  the  CD,  the  drafting  of  a  revised  Electoral  Code, 
the  establishment  of  provisions  for  absentee  balloting,  and  the  re- 
striction of  armed  forces  personnel  to  quarters  on  election  day.  The 
proposal  dropped  the  previous  FMLN  demands  for  a  power-sharing 


xxiv 


arrangement  and  the  integration  of  guerrilla  forces  into  a  revamped 
national  military  organization.  President  Duarte  initially  rejected 
the  proposal,  citing  the  unconstitutionality  of  extending  his  term 
past  June  1 .  Consideration  of  the  offer  was  extended,  however, 
after  the  United  States  Department  of  State  announced  that  it  was 
"worthy  of  serious  and  substantive  consideration."  During  a  late 
February  meeting  in  Mexico,  FMLN  leaders  Francisco  Jovel 
("Roberto  Roca")  and  Jorge  Shafik  Handal  and  representatives 
of  the  major  Salvadoran  political  parties  agreed  to  curtail  the  post- 
ponement demand  from  six  to  four  months,  but  the  FMLN  in- 
troduced new  demands  for  the  restructuring  of  the  Salvadoran 
security  forces  and  a  reduction  in  the  overall  force  level  of  the  armed 
forces. 

The  new  security-related  demands  effectively  invalidated  the 
proposal,  given  the  lack  of  enthusiasm  or  incentive  for  the  High 
Command  to  accept  a  unilateral  drawdown  of  its  forces.  Duarte 's 
final  counteroffer,  announced  after  consultation  with  the  armed 
forces  leadership,  called  for  a  six- week  delay  in  balloting,  an  im- 
mediate cease-fire,  and  direct  talks  among  the  executive  branch, 
leaders  of  the  Legislative  Assembly,  and  FMLN  delegates.  The 
offer  drew  an  enthusiastic  endorsement  from  the  Department  of 
State;  the  FMLN,  however,  rejected  it. 

Observers  disagreed  as  to  whether  the  proposal  constituted  a 
genuine  effort  to  resolve  the  civil  conflict  or  merely  another  in  a 
series  of  tactical  maneuvers  by  the  rebels.  The  discussions  failed 
to  produce  a  cessation  of  hostilities  inside  El  Salvador.  FMLN  forces 
continued  their  policy  of  assassinating  elected  mayors;  a  car  bomb 
exploded  on  February  21  in  San  Salvador  near  the  headquarters 
of  the  army's  First  Infantry  Brigade;  and  attacks  by  guerrilla  forces 
in  Apopa  and  Zacatecoluca  left  more  than  two  dozen  soldiers  and 
civilians  dead.  In  a  significant  terrorist  action,  FMLN  defector 
Napoleon  Romero,  also  known  as  Miguel  Castellanos,  was  assas- 
sinated in  the  capital  on  February  17.  As  the  March  19  election 
approached,  the  rebels'  radio  broadcasts  warned  citizens  of  a  na- 
tionwide transportation  stoppage  and  an  intensified  campaign 
against  military  installations.  Even  the  CD's  Ungo  was  forced  to 
flee  from  a  March  16  attack  on  a  National  Guard  barracks  in  San 
Salvador.  Rebel  efforts  to  disrupt  the  balloting  were  cited  by  some 
sources  as  a  partial  explanation  for  the  comparatively  low  voter 
turnout  of  just  over  50  percent. 

The  assassination  of  the  country's  attorney  general  by  an  FMLN 
terrorist  on  April  19,  1989,  signaled  the  new  administration  that 
negotiation  and  conciliation  no  longer  occupied  a  prominent  posi- 
tion on  the  rebels'  short-term  agenda.  A  number  of  observers 


xxv 


believed  that  the  FMLN  would  deliberately  escalate  both  rural  at- 
tacks and  urban  terrorism  in  an  effort  to  provoke  the  extremist  wing 
of  Arena  into  a  backlash  of  repression  against  suspected  leftist  sub- 
versives, a  tactic  that  presumably  would  diminish  the  authority  and 
standing  of  the  Cristiani  administration  and  enhance  the  popular 
appeal  of  the  guerrillas.  No  realistic  or  credible  voices  predicted 
a  reduction  in  the  prevailing  level  of  violence  or  a  short-term  reso- 
lution of  the  conflict.  As  the  1980s  drew  to  a  close,  El  Salvador 
seemed  to  be  locked  into  a  state  of  chronic  instability  and  conflict. 

May  16,  1989 

*    *  * 

On  November  11,  1989,  the  FMLN  launched  a  major  military 
offensive  that  brought  heavy  fighting  to  San  Salvador  for  the  first 
time  in  the  civil  conflict.  The  kickoff  of  the  offensive  followed  a  deci- 
sion by  the  guerrilla  leadership  to  suspend  ongoing  negotiations  with 
the  Cristiani  administration.  Although  the  rebels'  communique  an- 
nouncing the  abandonment  of  the  peace  talks  cited  the  October  3 1 
bombing  of  a  union  headquarters — presumably  by  a  right-wing 
group — the  offensive  had  clearly  been  in  the  planning  stages  for 
months  prior  to  that  event.  The  late  October  seizure  by  Honduran 
authorities  of  a  weapons  cache  in  a  van  en  route  to  El  Salvador  from 
Nicaragua  strengthened  the  claims  of  the  Salvadoran  armed  forces 
that  the  Sandinista  government  continued  to  provide  material  aid  to 
the  FMLN  despite  numerous  denials  of  such  support  from  Managua. 

Throughout  October,  spiraling  acts  of  political  violence  had  con- 
tributed to  an  extremely  tense  atmosphere  throughout  the  coun- 
try. FMLN  personnel  in  late  September  attacked  the  home  of  the 
commander  of  the  Third  Infantry  Brigade  in  San  Miguel  depart- 
ment and  shot  to  death  the  daughter  of  another  army  colonel  in 
mid-October.  In  response,  right-wing  groups  bombed  the  homes 
of  leftist  politicians,  including  that  of  Ruben  Zamora  Rivas,  the 
vice  presidential  candidate  of  the  CD  in  the  1989  elections.  Some 
observers  likewise  viewed  the  bombing  of  the  union  headquarters, 
which  killed  ten  people  and  wounded  thirty,  as  a  response  to  an 
unsuccessful  rebel  mortar  attack  on  the  San  Salvador  headquar- 
ters of  the  Joint  General  Staff. 

The  November  offensive  focused  on  San  Salvador,  although  the 
rebels  also  launched  simultaneous  attacks  in  the  departments  of 
San  Miguel,  Usulutan,  Santa  Ana,  La  Paz,  and  Morazan.  For  more 
than  a  week,  FMLN  guerrillas  held  positions  in  poor  neighbor- 
hoods of  the  capital.  Some  civilians  joined  the  combatants  in  erecting 
fortifications;  others  acquired  weapons  and  joined  in  the  fighting. 


xxvi 


According  to  most  reports,  the  majority  of  the  former  group  were 
pressed  into  service,  while  most  of  the  latter  were  members  of 
"popular  organizations"  (also  known  as  mass  organizations) — 
labor,  human  rights,  and  other  groups  that  had  served  as  legal  fronts 
for  the  FMLN.  Heavy  fighting  went  on  for  more  than  a  week; 
casualties  were  high.  The  Salvadoran  armed  forces,  trained  in  rural 
counterinsurgency,  not  urban  house-to-house  combat,  relied  on 
aerial  fire  support  from  both  helicopters  and  fixed-wing  gunships 
to  root  out  the  guerrillas.  Although  this  tactic  may  have  spared 
the  lives  of  some  soldiers,  it  greatly  increased  the  toll  on  the  civilian 
population.  Estimates  of  those  killed  in  the  fighting  exceeded  1,000, 
with  more  than  30,000  displaced  from  their  battle-damaged  homes. 
Toward  the  end  of  the  offensive,  the  rebels  briefly  occupied  posi- 
tions in  the  Escalon  section  of  the  city,  a  bastion  of  the  Salvadoran 
upper  class  that  had  never  experienced  at  first  hand  the  violence 
of  the  conflict. 

On  November  16,  six  Jesuit  priests  and  two  women  were  mur- 
dered on  the  campus  of  the  Central  American  University  Jose 
Simeon  Canas  in  San  Salvador.  The  six,  including  the  rector  and 
vice  rector  of  the  university,  were  prominent  leftist  intellectuals  who 
maintained  contacts  with  members  of  the  FMLN  and  were  there- 
fore branded  as  "communists"  by  the  Salvadoran  right  wing.  The 
circumstances  of  their  deaths,  which  took  place  after  curfew  (im- 
posed when  President  Cristiani  declared  a  state  of  emergency  on 
November  12)  in  an  area  controlled  by  the  army,  led  most  observ- 
ers to  blame  military  personnel.  President  Cristiani  condemned 
the  atrocity  and  attended  the  priests'  funeral.  Nevertheless,  the  bla- 
tant nature  of  the  act  and  the  probable  involvement  of  some  ele- 
ment of  the  armed  forces  raised  doubts  about  the  president's 
authority  and  prompted  calls  from  some  members  of  the  United 
States  Congress  to  either  cut  future  aid  or  condition  it  on  the 
progress  of  the  investigation. 

Under  pressure  from  the  United  States  government,  Cristiani 
announced  on  January  7,  1990,  that  an  investigation  undertaken 
with  the  assistance  of  police  officials  from  Britain,  Spain,  and  the 
United  States  had  determined  that  armed  forces  personnel  had  in- 
deed been  involved  in  the  murder  of  the  Jesuits.  Subsequendy,  nine 
members  of  the  army,  including  a  colonel  and  four  lieutenants, 
were  arrested.  The  colonel,  Guillermo  Alfredo  Benavides,  com- 
mander of  the  Captain  General  Gerardo  Barrios  Military  Acade- 
my, was  also  a  member  of  the  same  graduating  class  (the  so-called 
tandona,  or  big  class)  as  the  chief  of  the  Joint  General  Staff,  Colonel 
Ponce.  Some  reports  claimed  that  certain  members  of  the  officer 
corps  resented  Ponce's  willingness  to  "betray"  a  classmate  by 


xxvn 


acquiescing  in  Benavides's  detention,  in  contravention  of  the  es- 
tablished tradition  of  solidarity  among  members  of  a  tanda.  If  ulti- 
mately brought  to  trial,  Colonel  Benavides  and  the  lieutenants 
would  be  the  first  Salvadoran  officers  prosecuted  for  human  rights 
abuses. 

Intensified  controversy  and  political  polarization  all  but  guaran- 
teed the  prolongation  of  the  civil  conflict.  The  leadership  of  the 
FMLN,  who  had  never  favored  the  incorporation  of  leftist  parties 
such  as  the  CD  into  the  existing  political  framework,  undoubtedly 
undertook  the  offensive  with  this  goal  in  mind.  One  major  result 
of  the  offensive  appeared  to  be  a  rededication  of  the  guerrilla  forces 
to  a  strategy  of  revolutionary  struggle  devoid  of  the  political  in- 
volvement represented  by  the  CD  and  the  popular  organizations. 
The  resumption  of  hostilities  on  a  large  scale,  particularly  in  the 
capital,  may  also  have  been  intended  to  provoke  the  kind  of  right- 
wing  backlash  represented  by  the  murder  of  the  Jesuits. 

El  Salvador's  foreign  relations,  aside  from  the  imperative  of  main- 
taining aid  from  the  United  States,  continued  to  focus  on  Central 
America.  On  November  26,  1989,  Cristiani  indefinitely  suspended 
diplomatic  and  trade  relations  with  Nicaragua  in  response  to  strong 
evidence  of  Sandinista  involvement  in  providing  surface-to-air  mis- 
siles and  other  weapons  to  the  FMLN.  One  day  earlier,  a  light 
plane  carrying  such  missiles  crashed  in  eastern  El  Salvador;  piloted 
by  a  Nicaraguan  and  with  Cuban  nationals  on  board,  the  plane 
apparently  had  experienced  mechanical  trouble  sometime  after 
takeoff  from  Montelimar,  near  Managua.  The  introduction  of 
surface-to-air  missiles  threatened  to  restrict  the  Salvadoran  armed 
forces'  use  of  helicopters  in  transport,  fire  support,  and  medivac 
roles;  the  involvement  of  the  Nicaraguan  and  Cuban  governments 
in  supplying  such  weapons  indicated  support  for  the  FMLN  strategy 
of  prolonging  the  conflict  through  military  escalation. 

The  suspension  of  relations  cast  a  cloud  over  the  summit  of  the 
five  Central  American  presidents,  held  in  San  Jose,  Costa  Rica, 
on  December  10-12,  1989,  as  part  of  the  ongoing  peace  process 
under  the  terms  of  the  Esquipulas  II  agreement.  Despite  sev- 
eral heated  rhetorical  exchanges  between  the  Salvadoran  and 
Nicaraguan  governments  prior  to  the  summit,  Nicaraguan  presi- 
dent Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra  endorsed  the  presidents'  final  decla- 
ration, which  asserted  ''solid  support  for  Salvadoran  president 
Alfredo  Cristiani  and  for  his  government."  The  declaration  fur- 
ther urged  a  cessation  of  hostilities  in  El  Salvador  and  the  resump- 
tion of  a  dialogue  between  the  government  and  the  FMLN.  To 
that  end,  the  presidents  called  on  the  secretary  general  of  the  United 
Nations  to  act  as  a  mediator  between  the  two  sides.  The  presidents 


xxvin 


had  previously  requested  that  the  UN  establish  an  Observer  Group 
in  Central  America  in  order  to  facilitate  the  demobilization  of  the 
Nicaraguan  Resistance  forces  (the  contras).  The  December  decla- 
ration expanded  that  request  to  include  the  FMLN. 

For  its  part,  the  FMLN  initially  condemned  the  presidents'  decla- 
ration as  "neither  realistic  nor  viable."  In  mid-January,  however, 
the  guerrilla  leadership  announced  its  acceptance  of  UN  media- 
tion and  expressed  its  willingness  to  resume  negotiations  within 
thirty  days.  Neither  the  rebels  nor  the  government,  however,  gave 
any  public  indication  of  a  willingness  to  alter  their  previous  negotiat- 
ing positions. 


January  23,  1990  Richard  A.  Haggerty 


xxix 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Pedro  de  Alvarado,  Spanish  conqueror  of  El  Salvador 


THE  HISTORY  OF  EL  SALVADOR  revolves  around  one  cen- 
tral issue — land.  In  this,  the  smallest  country  in  Central  America, 
land  always  has  been  a  scarce  commodity  whose  importance  has 
been  amplified  by  the  comparative  absence  of  precious  metals  or 
lucrative  mineral  deposits.  Agriculture  defined  the  economic  life 
of  the  country  well  before  the  arrival  of  the  Spanish  conquistadors 
in  the  early  1500s,  and,  despite  some  modest  advances  in  indus- 
trial capacity,  agriculture  has  continued  to  dominate  the  nation's 
wealth,  social  structure,  and  political  dynamics. 

The  unequal  distribution  of  land  in  El  Salvador  can  be  traced 
directly  to  the  Spanish  colonial  system,  under  which  land  title  was 
vested  in  the  crown.  Those  select  individuals  granted  control  of 
specified  areas  acted,  at  least  in  theory,  only  as  stewards  over  the 
lands  and  peoples  under  their  control.  Although  private  property 
rights  eventually  were  established,  the  functional  structure  put  in 
place  by  the  Spanish  was  perpetuated  well  into  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury by  the  landed  oligarchy,  with  the  assistance  of  the  military. 

Although  the  indigenous,  or  Indian,  population  gradually  was 
diminished  through  disease  and  abuse  and  eventually  subsumed 
into  a  growing  mestizo  (mixed  Caucasian  and  Indian)  population, 
its  position  at  the  base  of  society  was  assumed  by  the  rural  lower 
class.  Until  the  mid-twentieth  century,  the  patterns  of  landowner- 
ship  and  income  distribution  ran  unrelentingly  against  this  seg- 
ment of  the  population.  As  elsewhere  in  Latin  America,  those  with 
more  got  more,  those  with  less  got  less.  Under  the  model  of 
monoculture  export  that  came  to  prevail  in  El  Salvador,  the  con- 
centration of  land  into  large  units,  or  haciendas,  made  for  greater 
overall  efficiency  of  production.  The  other  side  of  the  economic 
coin,  however,  was  engraved  with  images  of  worsening  poverty, 
deprivation,  illiteracy,  and  disease  as  the  single-minded  pursuit  of 
wealth  by  a  minuscule  percentage  of  the  population  denied  the  vast 
majority  of  Salvadorans  access  to  more  than  a  subsistence  level  of 
income. 

Although  slow  to  develop,  the  political  ramifications  of  this 
process  of  skewed  distribution  were  inevitable.  Unfortunately  for 
the  marginalized  campesinos  (farmers  or  farm  laborers),  however, 
the  landowners  were  prepared  to  protect  their  gains  by  force  against 
any  effort  to  improve  the  lot  of  the  lower  class.  A  rural  uprising 
in  1833,  led  by  Indian  leader  Anastasio  Aquino,  was  put  down 
by  forces  hired  by  the  landowners.  A  century  later,  another 


3 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


insurrection,  this  time  led  by  the  Marxist  Agustin  Farabundo  Marti, 
provoked  a  now-legendary  reprisal  known  as  la  matanza  (the  mas- 
sacre). The  troops  that  carried  out  this  action,  in  which  by  some 
estimates  as  many  as  30,000  Salvadorans  were  killed,  belonged  to 
the  Salvadoran  armed  forces.  Institutionalized  and  nominally 
independent  from  the  landed  oligarchy,  the  armed  forces  proceeded 
from  that  point  to  assume  control  of  the  political  process  in  El 
Salvador. 

The  Salvadoran  officer  corps  was  not  altogether  unsympathetic 
to  popular  sentiment  for  reform  of  the  oligarchic  system.  In  the 
Salvadoran  political  equation,  however,  the  economic  elite's 
resistance  to  change  remained  a  given.  Therefore,  efforts  by  the 
military  to  institute  gradual,  guided  reforms — land  reform  chief 
among  them — repeatedly  ran  into  the  brick  wall  of  elite  opposi- 
tion and  influence.  It  was  not  until  1980,  when  the  officer  corps 
allied  itself  publicly  with  the  middle-class  Christian  Democratic 
Party,  that  substantive  reform  appeared  achievable.  By  that  time, 
however,  El  Salvador  stood  on  the  threshold  of  a  major  civil  con- 
flict between  government  forces  backed  by  the  United  States  and 
guerrillas  supported  by  Nicaragua,  Cuba,  and  the  Soviet  Union. 
This  conflict  catapulted  the  country's  internal  conflicts  onto  the 
world  stage.  The  future  course  of  reform  in  El  Salvador  was  thus 
uncertain,  as  the  nation  entered  the  1980s  burdened  with  the  lega- 
cies of  economic  and  social  inequality  and  political  exclusion  of  the 
middle  and  lower  classes  by  the  elite. 

Spanish  Conquest  and  Colonization 

When  the  Spanish  first  ventured  into  Central  America  from  the 
colony  of  New  Spain  (Mexico)  in  the  early  sixteenth  century,  the 
area  that  would  become  El  Salvador  was  populated  primarily  by 
Indians  of  the  Pipil  tribe.  The  Pipil  were  a  subgroup  of  a  nomadic 
people  known  as  the  Nahua,  who  had  migrated  into  Central 
America  about  3000  B.C.  The  Nahua  eventually  fell  under  the  sway 
of  the  Maya  Empire,  which  dominated  the  Mesoamerican  region 
until  its  decline  in  the  ninth  century  A.D.  Pipil  culture  did  not  reach 
the  advanced  level  achieved  by  the  Maya;  it  has  been  compared, 
albeit  on  a  smaller  scale,  to  that  of  the  Aztecs  in  Mexico.  The  Pipil 
nation,  believed  to  have  been  founded  in  the  eleventh  century,  was 
organized  into  two  major  federated  states  subdivided  into  smaller 
principalities.  Although  primarily  an  agricultural  people,  the  Pipil 
built  a  number  of  large  urban  centers,  some  of  which  developed 
into  present-day  cities,  such  as  Sonsonate  and  Ahuachapan  (see 

fig.  i). 


4 


I 


Ruins  at  Tazumal 


The  Pipil  were  a  determined  people  who  stoutly  resisted  Span- 
ish efforts  to  extend  their  dominion  southward.  The  first  such  effort 
by  Spanish  forces  was  led  by  Pedro  de  Alvarado,  a  lieutenant  of 
Hernan  Cortes  in  the  conquest  of  Mexico.  It  met  with  stiff  resistance 
from  the  indigenous  population.  Alvarado 's  expeditionary  force 
entered  El  Salvador — or  Cuscadan,  as  it  was  known  by  the  Pipil — in 
June  1524.  The  Spaniards  were  defeated  in  a  major  engagement 
shortly  thereafter  and  were  forced  to  withdraw  to  Guatemala.  Two 
subsequent  expeditions  were  required — in  1525  and  1528 — to  bring 
the  Pipil  under  Spanish  control.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the  name 
of  the  supposed  leader  of  the  Indian  resistance,  Atlacatl,  has  been 
perpetuated  and  honored  among  the  Salvadorans  to  the  relative 
exclusion  of  that  of  Alvarado.  In  this  sense,  the  Salvadoran 
ambivalence  toward  the  conquest  bears  a  resemblance  to  the  prevail- 
ing opinion  in  Mexico,  where  Cortes  is  more  reviled  than  cele- 
brated. 

The  Spanish  had  come  to  Central  America  seeking,  at  least  in 
part,  to  add  to  the  store  of  precious  metals  that  constituted  the  most 
immediate  spoils  of  the  Mexican  conquest.  In  the  small  colony  that 
they  dubbed  El  Salvador  ("the  savior"),  they  were  severely  dis- 
appointed in  this  regard.  What  little  gold  was  available  was  acces- 
sible only  through  the  laborious  and  time-consuming  method  of 
panning,  a  process  that  consumed  the  effort  of  numerous  impressed 
Indian  laborers  for  a  number  of  years.  Denied  the  opportunity  for 


5 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

quick  riches,  the  conquistadors  and  later  the  Spanish  settlers  even- 
tually came  to  realize  that  the  sole  exploitable  resource  of  El  Sal- 
vador was  the  land. 

El  Salvador  thus  was  relegated  to  the  status  of  a  backwater  of 
the  Spanish  Empire.  In  this  state  of  neglect  and  isolation,  the  seeds 
of  the  country's  politico-economic  structure  were  planted.  Large 
tracts  of  land  were  granted  by  the  crown,  initially  under  the  terms 
of  the  encomienda  (see  Glossary)  system,  whereby  the  grantee  was 
invested  with  the  right  to  collect  tribute  from  the  native  inhabi- 
tants of  a  designated  area.  The  manifest  abuse  of  the  Indian  popu- 
lation that  resulted  from  the  encomienda  system  contributed  to  its 
replacement  in  the  mid-sixteenth  century  by  the  repartimiento  (see 
Glossary)  system.  Under  repartimiento,  representatives  of  the  crown 
were  empowered  to  regulate  the  work  allotment  and  treatment  of 
Indian  laborers.  Although  more  humane  in  theory,  it  was  a  sys- 
tem that  was  extremely  vulnerable  to  abuse.  The  colony's  distance 
from  the  mother  country,  the  ease  with  which  royal  officials  could 
be  corrupted,  and  the  prevailing  disregard  among  the  elite — made 
up  of  peninsulares,  born  in  Spain,  and  criollos  born  in  the  New  World 
of  Spanish  parentage — for  the  plight  of  the  Indians  militated  against 
any  substantive  improvement  in  living  conditions  for  the  indigenous 
population. 

Although  landholders  in  El  Salvador  exercised  nearly  absolute 
power  within  their  fiefdoms,  they  did  not  begin  to  realize  the  full 
economic  potential  of  their  holdings  until  they  instituted  the  sys- 
tem of  widespread  cultivation  of  a  single  lucrative  export  com- 
modity. The  first  of  these  commodities  was  cacao,  which  flourished 
during  the  latter  half  of  the  sixteenth  century.  Cultivation  of  in- 
digo followed  and  produced  tremendous  profits  during  the  eight- 
eenth century.  Largely  as  a  result  of  the  importance  of  the  indigo 
trade,  the  colonial  capital  of  San  Salvador  eventually  came  to  be 
considered  the  second  city  of  the  Captaincy  General  of  Guatemala, 
the  Spanish  administrative  unit  that  encompassed  most  of  Central 
America  during  the  colonial  period.  The  indigo  boom  effectively 
played  itself  out  by  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  however,  after  the 
discovery  in  Germany  of  a  synthetic  dye  that  could  be  produced 
much  more  economically. 

The  fortunes  of  the  Spanish  Empire  waned  throughout  the  eigh- 
teenth century  and  were  dashed  completely  by  the  Napoleonic  con- 
quest of  the  Iberian  Peninsula  in  1808.  As  the  Salvadorans  moved 
toward  independence,  the  legacies  of  their  progenitors,  both  Indian 
and  Spanish,  were  firmly  fixed.  The  predominance  of  agriculture 
was  a  fact  of  life  well  before  the  Conquest;  the  Spanish  contrib- 
uted to  this  basic  system  by  emphasizing  production  for  export 


6 


Historical  Setting 


versus  cultivation  for  subsistence.  Individual  loyalties  under  the 
pre-Conquest  civilization  were  given  primarily  to  one's  family  and 
to  one's  village;  Spanish  rule  did  little  or  nothing  to  change  this 
attitude  or  to  build  any  substantial  sense  of  national  identity  among 
the  common  people.  Religious  influence  on  daily  life  was  strong 
in  both  pre-Conquest  and  colonial  societies.  The  simple  animistic 
nature  of  the  Indians'  beliefs  allowed  for  the  ready  assimilation 
of  Roman  Catholic  dogma.  As  elsewhere  in  Latin  America,  the 
hierarchical  structure  of  the  church  complemented  the  rigid  stratifi- 
cation of  colonial  society.  In  many  ways,  independence  would  serve 
only  to  exacerbate  the  inequities  inherent  in  that  society. 

El  Salvador  and  the  United  Provinces  of 
Central  America 

The  colonies  comprising  the  Captaincy  General  of  Guatemala 
declared  their  independence  from  Spain  on  September  15,  1821. 
It  was  not  long  before  the  new  states,  particularly  El  Salvador,  had 
to  contend  with  attempted  annexation  by  another  large  power  in 
the  form  of  an  independent  Mexico  under  self-proclaimed  Emperor 
Agustin  de  Iturbide.  A  Mexican  force  dispatched  by  Iturbide  suc- 
ceeded in  bringing  to  heel  the  uncooperative  Salvadorans,  but  only 
briefly.  When  the  emperor  himself  fell  from  power  in  1823,  his 
dream  of  a  Central  American  empire  died  with  him.  The  five  states 
of  El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Nicaragua,  and  Costa  Rica 
went  on  to  establish  themselves  as  the  United  Provinces  of  Cen- 
tral America  on  July  1,  1823  (see  fig.  2). 

The  United  Provinces,  unworkable  though  they  proved  to  be, 
constituted  the  only  successful  political  union  of  the  Central  Ameri- 
can states  in  the  postcolonial  era.  Many  optimistic  residents  of  the 
region  no  doubt  held  high  hopes  for  this  new  nation  at  its  incep- 
tion. Their  sentiments  were  expressed  elegantly,  though  ironically — 
given  the  subsequent  course  of  events — by  the  liberator  of  South 
America,  Simon  Bolivar,  who  expounded  in  1815  on  the  prospects 
for  such  a  federation:  "This  magnificent  location  between  the  two 
great  oceans  could  in  time  become  the  emporium  of  the  world.  Its 
canals  will  shorten  the  distances  throughout  the  world,  strengthen 
commercial  ties  with  Europe,  America,  and  Asia,  and  bring  that 
happy  region  tribute  from  the  four  quarters  of  the  globe.  Perhaps 
some  day  the  capital  of  the  world  may  be  located  there,  just  as  Con- 
stantine  claimed  Byzantium  was  the  capital  of  the  ancient  world." 

Unfortunately  for  those  of  Bolivar's  idealistic  inclinations,  the 
Central  American  Federation  was  not  immune  to  the  conflict  be- 
tween liberals  and  conservatives  that  afflicted  nineteenth-century 
Latin  America  as  a  whole.  Generally  speaking,  the  liberals  were 


7 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


8 


Historical  Setting 


more  open  to  foreign  ideas  (particularly  from  the  United  States, 
France,  and  Britain);  they  welcomed  foreign  investment  and  par- 
ticipation in  a  laissez-faire  process  of  economic  development;  and 
they  sought  to  limit  the  influence  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church 
over  the  lives  of  the  people.  The  conservatives'  inclinations  were 
almost  diametrically  opposed  to  those  of  the  liberals.  Conserva- 
tives were  generally  more  xenophobic;  they  advocated  more  pro- 
tectionist economic  policies;  and  they  championed  the  traditional 
role  of  the  church  as  the  predominant  moral  arbiter  and  preserver 
of  the  social  and  political  status  quo. 

Split  by  the  dichotomy  between  liberals  and  conservatives,  the 
United  Provinces  never  functioned  as  the  unified  national  unit 
envisioned  by  its  founders.  Control  of  the  federal  government  passed 
from  liberal  to  conservative  hands  in  1826,  only  to  be  restored  to 
the  liberal  faction  under  the  leadership  of  the  Honduran  Francisco 
Morazan  in  1829.  Neither  faction,  however,  was  able  to  assert  fed- 
eral control  over  all  five  Central  American  states.  Therefore, 
although  the  liberal  governments  enacted  political,  economic,  and 
social  reforms,  they  were  never  able  to  implement  them  effectively. 
The  period  of  the  United  Provinces  was  thus  one  of  Central  Ameri- 
can polarization  impelled  by  deep  divisions  among  the  populace, 
not  the  unification  originally  anticipated  by  idealists. 

El  Salvador  was  a  stronghold  of  liberal  sentiment.  Most  Salva- 
dorans,  therefore,  supported  the  rule  of  Morazan,  who  served  as 
president  of  the  federation  from  1829  to  1840  when  he  was  not  lead- 
ing forces  in  the  field  against  the  conservative  followers  of  Rafael 
Carrera  of  Guatemala.  In  the  waning  days  of  liberal  rule,  San  Sal- 
vador served  as  Morazan 's  last  bastion.  Unable  to  stem  the  tide  of 
conservative  backlash,  the  liberal  forces  fell  to  those  of  Carrera  in 
March  1840.  Morazan  died  before  a  firing  squad  in  September  1842. 

The  almost  unceasing  violence  that  attended  the  effort  to  unite 
Central  America  into  one  federated  nation  led  the  leaders  of  the 
five  states  to  abandon  that  effort  and  declare  their  independence 
as  separate  political  entities.  El  Salvador  did  so  in  January  1841. 
Although  their  destinies  would  remain  intertwined  and  they  would 
intervene  in  each  other's  affairs  routinely  in  the  years  to  come,  the 
countries  of  Central  America  would  from  that  time  function  as  frag- 
mented and  competitive  ministates  readily  exploitable  by  foreign 
powers. 

The  Coffee  Republic 

The  Oligarchy  and  the  Liberal  State 

Coffee  would  become  the  last  of  the  great  monoculture  export 
commodities  in  El  Salvador.  Its  widespread  cultivation  began  in 


9 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


the  mid-nineteenth  century  as  the  world  demand  for  indigo  dried 
up.  The  huge  profits  that  it  yielded  served  as  a  further  impetus 
for  the  process  whereby  land  became  concentrated  in  the  hands 
of  an  oligarchy.  Although  legend  and  radical  propaganda  have 
quantified  the  oligarchy  at  the  level  of  fourteen  families,  a  figure 
of  several  hundred  families  lies  much  closer  to  the  truth.  A  succes- 
sion of  presidents,  nominally  both  conservative  and  liberal,  through- 
out the  last  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  supported  the  seizure 
of  land  from  individual  smallholders  and  communal  owners. 

Despite  the  continued  participation  of  conservatives,  however, 
the  period  of  the  establishment  of  the  coffee  republic  (roughly  1871 
to  1927)  is  described  commonly  as  the  era  of  the  liberal  state  in 
El  Salvador.  The  church  was  not  as  powerful  in  El  Salvador  as 
in  other  Latin  American  states  at  the  time;  therefore,  the  economic 
aspects  of  liberalism — an  adherence  to  the  principles  of  free-market 
capitalism — dominated  the  conduct  of  the  state.  Anticlericalism  was 
a  distinctly  secondary  theme,  expressed  primarily  through  social 
legislation  (such  as  the  establishment  of  secular  marriage  and  edu- 
cation) rather  than  though  the  kind  of  direct  action,  e.g.,  repres- 
sion and  expropriation,  taken  against  the  church  in  nineteenth- 
and  early  twentieth-century  Mexico. 

Despite  some  differences  over  the  degree  of  emphasis  of  politi- 
cal versus  economic  issues,  Salvadoran  liberals  generally  agreed 
on  the  promotion  of  coffee  as  the  predominant  cash  crop,  on  the 
development  of  infrastructure  (railroads  and  port  facilities)  primarily 
in  support  of  the  coffee  trade,  on  the  elimination  of  communal  land- 
holdings  to  facilitate  further  coffee  production,  on  the  passage  of 
antivagrancy  laws  to  ensure  that  displaced  campesinos  and  other 
rural  residents  provided  sufficient  labor  for  the  coffee  fincas  (plan- 
tations), and  on  the  suppression  of  rural  discontent. 

The  coffee  industry  grew  inexorably  in  El  Salvador,  after  a  some- 
what tentative  start  in  the  mid- 1800s.  Between  1880  and  1914,  the 
value  of  coffee  exports  rose  by  more  than  1 , 100  percent.  Although 
the  coffee  industry  itself  was  not  taxed  by  the  government,  tremen- 
dous revenue  was  raised  indirectly  through  import  duties  on  goods 
imported  with  the  foreign  currencies  that  coffee  sales  earned  (goods 
intended  for  the  consumption  of  the  small  coffee-producing  elite). 
From  1870  to  1914,  an  average  of  58.7  percent  of  government 
revenue  derived  from  this  source.  Even  if  the  coffee  elite  did  not 
run  the  government  directly  (and  many  scholars  argue  that  they 
did),  the  elite  certainly  provided  the  bulk  of  the  government's  finan- 
cial support.  This  support,  coupled  with  the  humbler  and  more 
mundane  mechanisms  of  corruption,  ensured  the  coffee  growers 
of  overwhelming  influence  within  the  government  and  the  military. 


10 


Historical  Setting 


The  priorities  of  the  coffee  industry  dictated  a  shift  in  the  mis- 
sion of  the  embryonic  Salvadoran  armed  forces  from  external 
defense  of  the  national  territory  to  the  maintenance  of  internal  order. 
The  creation  of  the  National  Guard  (Guardia  Nacional — GN)  in 
1912  epitomizes  this  change  (see  The  Security  Forces,  ch.  5).  The 
duties  of  the  GN  differed  from  those  of  the  National  Police  (Policia 
Nacional — PN),  mainly  in  that  GN  personnel  were  specifically 
responsible  for  providing  security  on  the  coffee  fincas.  Most  fincas 
enjoyed  the  services  of  their  own  GN  units  posted  on  the  grounds; 
regional  GN  commanders  routinely  were  compensated  by  the  finca 
owners  to  ensure  the  continued  loyalty  of  the  guardsmen. 

Suppression  of  rural  dissent  was  subtle  and  institutionalized;  cam- 
pesinos  generally  accepted  the  status  quo  because  of  the  implied 
threat  of  retaliation  from  the  GN  or  other  military  units.  One  ex- 
ception to  this  pattern  was  Aquino's  rebellion.  Although  it  predated 
the  coffee  boom,  its  reverberations  were  felt  throughout  Salvadoran 
society  for  decades. 

Aquino  was  a  laborer  on  an  indigo  hacienda  in  the  region  of 
Los  Nonualcos  in  the  central  part  of  the  country.  He  led  a  brief 
but  violent  uprising  in  1833.  The  Indian  participants  aimed  to  end 
their  impressment  into  the  army  and  effect  the  return  of  tribute 
paid  to  the  government  under  false  pretenses  after  1811,  when  trib- 
ute requirements  were  discontinued  by  the  Spanish  parliament  (but 
payments  were  still  collected  by  the  local  authorities).  In  the  ini- 
tial uprising,  several  thousand  rebels,  mainly  Indians,  successfully 
captured  several  army  posts  between  Santiago  Nonualco  and  San 
Vicente,  where  Aquino's  forces  won  a  battle  against  government 
troops  only  to  be  defeated  the  next  day  by  reinforcements  mustered 
during  the  rebels'  march.  Had  Aquino  chosen  to  proceed  directly 
to  San  Salvador  after  his  early  victories,  the  capital  would  have 
been  largely  undefended.  As  it  was,  the  defeat  at  San  Vicente 
effectively  ended  the  rebellion,  reestablished  governmental  control 
over  the  rural  areas,  led  to  Aquino's  capture  and  execution  some 
months  later,  and  deterred  any  comparable  act  of  violent  dissent 
for  approximately  100  years. 

From  the  time  of  its  declaration  of  independence  from  Spain  as 
a  part  of  the  United  Provinces  of  Central  America,  El  Salvador 
was  governed  under  a  succession  of  constitutions.  A  number  of 
these  documents  were  produced  during  the  era  of  the  liberal  state. 
The  constitution  of  1871  attempted  to  increase  the  power  of  the 
legislature  relative  to  that  of  the  president;  it  specified  a  two-year 
term  for  the  chief  executive  with  no  immediate  reelection.  The  con- 
stitutions of  1872  and  1880  were  drafted  as  little  more  than  legal 
circumventions  of  that  two-year  restriction.  The  constitution  of  1885 


11 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

never  went  into  effect  because  the  body  that  drafted  it,  the  National 
Assembly,  was  dissolved  four  days  after  its  adoption.  The  last  con- 
stitution of  the  liberal  era,  the  constitution  of  1886,  was  the  lon- 
gest lived  of  all  Salvadoran  charters,  governing  the  country  until 
1939  and  serving  as  the  basis  of  a  post-World  War  II  document 
as  well  (see  The  Constitutions  of  El  Salvador,  1824-1962,  ch.  4). 

The  men  who  served  as  presidents  of  the  liberal  state  in  El  Sal- 
vador came  to  power  through  a  limited  array  of  means.  Santiago 
Gonzalez,  who  assumed  the  office  in  1871,  apparently  sought  to 
establish  a  personalist  dictatorship.  He  never  successfully  consoli- 
dated his  rule,  however,  and  was  defeated  by  Andres  Valle  in  the 
elections  of  1876.  Valle  fell  victim  to  one  of  the  chronic  afflictions 
of  Salvadoran  political  history — intervention  from  Guatemala.  Ht 
was  replaced  less  than  a  year  after  his  election  by  Rafael  Zaldivar, 
who  was  more  to  the  liking  of  the  Guatemalan  dictator  Justo  Rufino 
Barrios.  Zaldivar  proved  exceptionally  durable;  he  was  twice  elected 
president  after  his  initial  violent  installation,  serving  as  the  coun- 
try's leader  from  1876  until  his  overthrow  in  1885  by  forces  led 
by  Francisco  Menendez,  who  was  ousted  and  executed  by  his  army 
commander,  General  Carlos  Erzeta,  in  1890.  Erzeta  is  the  only 
president  during  the  period  of  the  liberal  state  who  is  reputed  to 
have  made  some  effort  to  improve  the  lot  of  the  lower  classes  by 
attempting  to  enforce  an  agricultural  minimum  wage,  though  the 
evidence  for  even  this  small  gesture  is  sketchy. 

Another  confrontation  with  Guatemala  contributed  to  the  down- 
fall of  Erzeta,  who  was  ousted  in  1894  by  Rafael  Gutierrez;  he, 
in  turn,  was  replaced  four  years  later  in  a  bloodless  coup  led  by 
General  Tomas  Regalado.  His  term  took  El  Salvador  rather  un- 
eventfully into  the  twentieth  century.  Regalado' s  peaceful  trans- 
fer of  power  in  1903  to  his  handpicked  successor,  Pedro  Jose 
Escalon,  ushered  in  a  period  of  comparative  stability  that  extended 
until  the  depression-provoked  upheaval  of  1931-32.  The  only  ex- 
ception to  this  pattern  of  peaceful  succession  was  the  assassination 
of  President  Manuel  Enrique  Araujo  in  1913.  Araujo  was  reputed 
to  have  held  somewhat  reformist  views  toward  some  of  the  poli- 
cies of  the  liberal  state,  in  particular  the  notion  of  financing  de- 
velopment through  foreign  loans.  His  assassination  may  have 
sprung  from  this  sort  of  policy  dispute,  although  the  full  motive 
has  never  been  established  satisfactorily. 

Araujo 's  death  ushered  in  a  brief  period  of  modified  dynastic 
rule,  whereby  President  Carlos  Melendez  named  his  brother  Jorge 
as  his  successor;  Jorge  in  turn  tapped  his  brother-in-law,  Alfonso 
Quifionez  Molina,  to  succeed  him.  The  Melendez  and  Quifionez 


12 


Historical  Setting 


clans  were  two  of  the  most  powerful  among  the  ranks  of  the  Sal- 
vadoran  oligarchy. 

Throughout  the  period  of  the  liberal  state  in  El  Salvador,  the 
preeminent  position  of  the  oligarchy  was  never  threatened  by  the 
actions  of  the  government.  Some  have  attributed  this  to  the  per- 
vasive influence  of  the  organization  that  has  been  described  as  the 
"invisible  government"  of  the  country,  the  Coffee  Growers  Asso- 
ciation (Asociacion  Cafetalera).  The  direct  (in  the  case  of  the 
Melendez-Quinonez  minidynasty)  and  indirect  connections  of  the 
presidents  of  the  period  with  the  country's  powerful  families  un- 
doubtedly came  into  play  as  well.  Generally  speaking,  however, 
the  system  continued  to  function  without  adjustment  because  it 
worked  well  from  the  perspective  of  the  small  percentage  of  Sal- 
vadorans  who  benefited  from  it,  namely  the  economic  elite,  upper- 
echelon  government  officials,  and  the  military  High  Command. 

Although  society  in  general  appeared  to  be  static  under  the  liberal 
state,  the  same  truly  cannot  be  said  for  the  Salvadoran  oligarchy. 
The  introduction  of  coffee  production  in  itself  changed  the  com- 
position of  that  group,  as  the  new  coffee  barons  joined  the  ranks 
of  the  old  plantation  owners  (who  in  many  cases  were  slow  to  recog- 
nize the  potential  of  coffee  and  lost  some  wealth  and  standing  by 
delaying  their  switch  from  indigo  production).  New  blood  also  was 
introduced  into  the  oligarchy  by  way  of  foreign  immigration.  These 
immigrants,  who  would  eventually  come  to  constitute  the  bulk  of 
the  Salvadoran  merchant  class,  frequently  married  into  the  land- 
owning oligarchic  families,  further  diversifying  the  composition  of 
the  elite  stratum  of  society  (see  The  Upper  Sector,  ch.  2). 

Another  process  worthy  of  note  during  this  period  despite  its  lack 
of  tangible  results  was  the  ongoing  series  of  unification  efforts  by 
the  Central  American  states.  El  Salvador  was  a  prime  mover  in 
most  of  these  attempts  to  reestablish  an  isthmian  federation.  In  1872 
El  Salvador  signed  a  pact  of  union  with  Guatemala,  Honduras, 
and  Costa  Rica,  but  the  union  was  never  implemented.  In  1876 
a  congress  of  all  five  Central  American  states  failed  to  achieve  agree- 
ment on  federation.  A  provisional  pact  signed  by  the  five  states 
in  1889  technically  created  the  "Republic  of  Central  America"; 
that  effort  too  never  was  realized.  Undaunted,  the  governments 
of  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  and  Nicaragua  formed  the  "Greater 
Republic  of  Central  America' '  (Republica  Mayor  de  Centroamerica) 
via  the  Pact  of  Amapala  (1895).  Although  Guatemala  and  Costa 
Rica  considered  joining  the  Greater  Republic  (which  was  rechristened 
"the  United  States  of  Central  America"  when  its  constitution  went 
into  effect  in  1898),  neither  country  joined.  This  union,  which  had 
planned  to  establish  its  capital  city  at  Amapala  on  the  Golfo  de 


13 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Fonseca,  did  not  survive  Regalado's  seizure  of  power  in  El  Sal- 
vador in  1898.  Although  the  Central  American  spirit  seemed  will- 
ing, the  commitment  was  weak.  The  notion  of  unification  was 
another  manifestation  of  the  idealistic  liberal  ethos,  and  it  proved 
durable  and  quite  resistant  to  political  realities. 

Economic  Crisis  and  Repression 

The  presidency  of  Pio  Romero  Bosque  (1927-31)  was  a  transi- 
tional period  in  Salvadoran  history  that  ended  the  relatively  stable 
functioning  of  the  coffee  republic  and  the  liberal  economic  system 
that  sustained  it.  The  world  depression  of  the  1930s,  which  precipi- 
tated a  sharp  fall  in  world  coffee  prices,  hit  hard  in  El  Salvador. 
The  loss  of  income  reverberated  throughout  the  society;  as  always, 
those  on  the  lower  end  of  the  economic  scale  felt  the  deprivation 
most  keenly,  as  wages  were  reduced  and  employment  levels  cut 
back.  The  government  first  responded  with  limited  reform  to  ease 
this  situation  and  the  popular  unrest  it  produced.  The  subsequent 
response  was  brutal  repression. 

President  Romero  was  the  designated  successor  of  President 
Quinonez,  who  apparently  expected  Don  Pio,  as  he  came  to  be 
known,  to  carry  on  the  noninterventionist  political  tradition  of  his 
predecessors.  Romero,  however,  for  reasons  of  his  own,  decided 
to  open  up  the  Salvadoran  system  to  a  limited  but  still  significant 
degree.  He  turned  on  Quinonez,  exiling  him  from  the  country, 
and  sought  to  exclude  other  members  of  the  elite  from  the  govern- 
ment. He  is  best  remembered  for  allowing  the  presidential  and 
municipal  elections  of  1931,  the  freest  held  in  El  Salvador  up  to 
that  time.  These  elections  still  excluded  any  radical  party  that  might 
have  sought  to  overturn  the  existing  governmental  system;  neverthe- 
less, they  resulted  in  the  election  of  Arturo  Araujo,  who  enjoyed 
a  mildly  reformist  reputation  despite  his  oligarchic  family  back- 
ground. 

Araujo  assumed  the  presidency  at  a  time  of  severe  economic  cri- 
sis. Between  1928  and  1931,  the  coffee  export  price  had  dropped 
by  54  percent.  The  wages  paid  agricultural  workers  were  cut  by 
an  equal  or  greater  extent.  Food  supplies,  dependent  on  imports 
because  of  the  crowding  out  of  subsistence  cultivation  by  coffee 
production,  likewise  fell  sharply.  Privation  among  the  rural  labor 
force,  long  a  tolerated  fact  of  life,  sank  to  previously  unknown 
depths.  Desperate  campesinos  began  to  listen  more  attentively  to 
the  exhortations  of  radicals  such  as  Agustin  Farabundo  Marti. 

Marti  came  from  a  relatively  well-to-do  landowning  family.  He 
was  educated  at  the  University  of  El  Salvador  (commonly  referred 
to  as  the  National  University),  where  his  political  attitudes  were 


14 


Historical  Setting 


influenced  by  the  writings  of  Karl  Marx  and  other  communist  the- 
orists. He  was  an  original  member  of  the  Central  American  Socialist 
Party  (founded  in  Guatemala  in  1925)  and  a  propagandist  for  the 
Regional  Federation  of  Salvadoran  Workers.  He  also  spent  a  few 
months  in  Nicaragua  with  that  country's  noted  guerrilla  leader, 
Augusto  Cesar  Sandino.  Marti  and  Sandino  parted  ways  over  the 
Nicaraguan's  refusal  to  add  Marxist  flourishes  to  his  nationalistic 
battle  against  a  United  States  occupation  force.  Jailed  or  expelled 
several  times  by  Salvadoran  authorities,  Marti  kept  up  his  efforts 
to  organize  popular  rebellion  against  the  government  with  the  goal 
of  establishing  a  communist  system  in  its  place.  The  widespread 
discontent  provoked  by  the  coffee  crisis  brought  ever-increasing 
numbers  of  Salvadorans  under  the  banner  of  such  Marxist  organi- 
zations as  the  Communist  Party  of  El  Salvador  (Partido  Comunista 
de  El  Salvador — PCES),  the  Anti-Imperialist  League,  and  the  Red 
Aid  International  (Socorro  Rojo  Internacional — SRI).  Marti  was 
the  Salvadoran  representative  of  the  SRI,  which  was  closely  as- 
sociated with  the  other  two  groups. 

Most  dissatisfied  Salvadorans  were  driven  more  by  hunger  and 
frustration  than  by  ideology.  Araujo,  a  product  of  the  economic 
elite,  was  burdened  by  loyalty  to  his  class,  by  the  unyielding  op- 
position of  that  class  to  political  reform,  by  the  increasing  polari- 
zation between  the  elite  and  the  masses,  and  by  the  suspicions  of 
the  military.  Araujo's  initial  response  to  popular  unrest,  perhaps 
a  conditioned  one,  was  to  quell  disturbances  by  force.  When  demon- 
strations persisted,  the  president  decided  to  offer  a  concession  in- 
stead of  a  club.  He  scheduled  municipal  elections  for  December 
1931 ;  furthermore,  he  offered  the  unprecedented  gesture  of  allow- 
ing the  PCES  to  participate  in  those  elections. 

In  the  tense  political  atmosphere  of  the  time,  this  last  conces- 
sion aroused  both  the  landholding  elite  and,  more  important,  the 
military.  A  December  coup  staged  against  Araujo  drew  support 
from  a  large  number  of  military  officers,  who  cited  Araujo's  inep- 
titude to  justify  their  action.  This  rationalization  did  not  match 
the  portentous  significance  of  the  event,  however.  The  1931  coup 
represented  the  first  instance  when  the  Salvadoran  military  took 
direct  action  as  an  institution  to  curtail  a  potential  political  drift 
to  the  left.  This  watershed  event  ushered  in  a  period  of  direct  and 
indirect  military  rule  that  would  last  for  fifty  years. 

The  rebellious  officers  shortly  installed  as  the  country's  leader 
General  Maximiliano  Hernandez  Martinez  (known  in  El  Salva- 
dor by  his  matronymic,  Martinez),  who  had  been  Araujo's  vice 
president  and  minister  of  war.  Surprisingly,  Martinez  allowed  the 
promised  elections  to  take  place  only  a  month  later  than  originally 


15 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

scheduled,  and  with  the  participation  of  the  PCES.  The  general's 
motivations  in  this  regard,  however,  seem  to  have  run  more  toward 
drawing  his  enemy  into  the  open  than  toward  the  furthering  of 
democratic  government,  for  the  communist  candidates  who  won 
municipal  offices  in  the  western  part  of  the  country  subsequently 
were  barred  from  assuming  those  offices. 

The  denial  of  the  municipal  posts  has  been  cited  as  the  catalyst 
for  the  launching  of  a  rural  insurrection  that  had  been  in  the  plan- 
ning stages  for  some  time.  Unfortunately  for  the  rebels,  the  mili- 
tary obtained  advance  warning  of  their  intentions.  Marti  and  other 
rebel  leaders  were  arrested  on  January  18,  1932.  Confusion  and 
poor  communications  led  the  insurgents  to  go  ahead  with  their 
action  as  planned  four  days  later.  The  rebels  succeeded  in  captur- 
ing government  buildings  in  the  towns  of  Izalco,  Sonzacate, 
Nahuizalco,  Juayua,  and  Tacuba.  They  were  repulsed  by  the  local 
garrisons  in  Sonsonate,  Santa  Tecla,  and  Ahuachapan.  Even  the 
small  successes  of  the  insurgents  were  short  lived,  however,  as  GN 
and  army  units  were  dispatched  to  relieve  local  forces  or  to  retake 
areas  held  by  the  rebels.  Less  than  seventy- two  hours  after  the  ini- 
tial uprising,  the  government  was  again  firmly  in  control.  It  was 
then  that  reprisals  began. 

The  military's  action  would  come  to  be  known  as  la  matanza. 
Some  estimates  of  the  total  number  of  campesinos  killed  run  as 
high  as  30,000.  Although  the  true  number  never  will  be  known, 
historian  Alastair  White  has  cited  15,000  to  20,000  as  the  best  ap- 
proximation. No  matter  what  figure  one  accepts,  the  reprisals  were 
highly  disproportionate  to  the  effects  of  the  communist-inspired  in- 
surgency, which  produced  no  more  than  thirty  civilian  fatalities. 
The  widespread  executions  of  campesinos,  mainly  Indians,  appar- 
ently were  intended  to  demonstrate  to  the  rural  population  that 
the  military  was  now  in  control  in  El  Salvador  and  that  it  would 
brook  no  challenges  to  its  rule  or  to  the  prevailing  system.  That 
blunt  message  was  received,  much  as  it  had  been  after  the  failure 
of  Aquino's  rebellion  a  century  earlier.  The  memory  of  la  matanza 
would  linger  over  Salvadoran  political  life  for  decades,  deterring 
dissent  and  maintaining  a  sort  of  coerced  conformity. 

Repression  and  Reform  under  Military  Rule 

The  assumption  of  power  by  Martinez  initiated  an  extended 
period  of  rule  by  a  military  institution  that  continued  to  struggle 
with  its  own  conception  of  its  role  as  director  of  the  country's 
political  process.  Older,  more  conservative  officers  were  pushed 
by  their  younger  subordinates  to  loosen  up  the  system  and  insti- 
tute at  least  some  limited  reforms  in  order  to  minimize  the  likelihood 


16 


Historical  Setting 


of  another  violent  disruption  like  that  of  1932.  The  notion  of  guided 
reform,  instituted  and  controlled  from  above,  generally  came  to 
be  accepted  as  the  best  course  for  the  military  to  steer  between  the 
twin  shoals  of  heavy-handed  repression  and  radical  revolution.  That 
is  not  to  say,  however,  that  repression  was  abandoned  as  a  tool 
of  political  control.  In  fact,  it  alternated  with  guided  reform  de- 
pending on  the  prevailing  socioeconomic  pressures  of  the  time.  This 
process  of  limited  liberalization  combined  with  firm  control  charac- 
terized the  political  order  of  El  Salvador  for  some  five  decades. 

The  first  of  many  military  presidents  to  come,  Martinez  was  an 
autocrat  who  enjoyed  the  longest  tenure  in  office  of  any  Salva- 
doran  president.  His  anticommunist  fervor,  so  amply  demonstrated 
by  la  matanza,  has  made  him  an  enduring  hero  of  the  political  right 
(a  right-wing  death  squad  of  the  1970s  would  bear  his  name).  His 
personal  quirks  are  also  legendary.  A  believer  in  spiritualism  and 
other  mystic  creeds,  he  is  most  frequently  remembered  for  having 
strung  colored  lights  throughout  San  Salvador  in  an  effort  to  ward 
off  a  smallpox  epidemic. 

Martinez  was  confirmed  as  president  by  the  legislature  in  1932. 
He  was  elected  to  a  four-year  term  of  office  in  1935  and  a  six-year 
term  in  1939.  Although  it  was  marked  by  institutionalized  repres- 
sion of  dissent,  Martinez's  tenure  was  not  altogether  a  negative 
period  for  the  country.  It  provided  a  stability  and  continuity  that 
contributed  to  a  general  improvement  in  the  national  economy. 
Like  other  Salvadoran  presidents  before  him,  Martinez  did  not  in- 
terfere greatly  with  the  elite-dominated  economic  system.  He  did, 
however,  make  some  minor  concessions  to  the  poor,  establishing 
a  government  welfare  institution  known  as  Social  Improvement 
(Mejoramiento  Social),  continuing  a  very  limited  land  redistribu- 
tion program  begun  under  Araujo,  and  attempting  to  protect  the 
domestic  handicraft  industry.  Although  he  was  personally  drawn 
to  the  fascist  movements  in  Mussolini's  Italy  and  Nazi  Germany, 
Martinez  committed  El  Salvador  to  the  Allied  effort  during  World 
War  II .  This  pragmatic  move  apparently  bought  El  Salvador  a  fair 
amount  of  goodwill  in  Washington.  Despite  the  length  of  his  rule, 
relations  between  the  general  and  the  oligarchy  were  uneasy,  in 
part  because  of  Martinez's  humble  origins,  but  also  because  of  his 
personal  eccentricities  and  the  unpredictability  that  they  seemed 
to  reflect.  This  vague  distrust  of  Martinez  was  transformed  into 
active  elite  opposition  by  his  decision  in  1943  to  raise  more  revenue 
through  an  increase  in  the  export  tax. 

The  last  straw  for  the  general's  detractors  was  his  effort  to  ex- 
tend his  term  beyond  1944  by  means  of  legislative  fiat  rather  than 
direct  election.  The  coalition  that  united  in  support  of  his  overthrow 


17 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

was  a  somewhat  eclectic  one:  civilian  politicians,  pro- Axis  military 
officers,  businessmen  and  bankers  (who  objected  to  the  govern- 
ment's limited  economic  restrictions),  and  irate  coffee  producers. 
An  initial  attempt  to  oust  Martinez  by  force  was  unsuccessful,  but 
subsequent  unrest  in  the  capital,  including  a  general  strike,  moved 
him  to  resign  his  office  in  May  1944.  His  successor,  General  Andres 
Ignacio  Menendez,  called  for  political  liberalization  and  free  elec- 
tions; the  sincerity  of  his  appeal  was  never  tested,  however,  as  he 
was  turned  out  of  office  by  the  military  in  October. 

Menendez 's  replacement  was  Colonel  Osmfn  Aguirre  y  Salinas, 
the  director  of  the  PN  and  a  former  follower  of  the  deposed  Marti- 
nez. The  Aguirre  regime  went  ahead  with  elections  scheduled  for 
January  1945  but  manipulated  the  results  to  ensure  the  victory  of 
its  candidate,  General  Salvador  Castaneda  Castro. 

Castaneda's  rule  was  unremarkable.  The  events  of  1944  had  left 
the  country  in  an  unresolved  state  of  political  uncertainty.  Fear- 
ing some  action  against  him  and  his  conservative  followers, 
Castaneda  sought  to  weed  out  young  reform-minded  officers  by 
dispatching  them  abroad  for  training.  This  sector  of  the  officer 
corps,  however,  was  substantial,  and  its  members  could  not  be  ex- 
cluded indefinitely  from  the  political  process.  They  made  their  in- 
fluence felt  in  1948,  when  Castaneda  made  his  own  attempt  to 
extend  his  term  in  office  by  way  of  legislative  maneuvering  without 
recourse  to  the  ballot  box.  The  movement  that  ousted  him  from 
power  on  December  14,  1948,  referred  to  itself  as  the  Military  Youth 
(Juventud  Militar).  For  as  long  as  its  members  exerted  control  in 
El  Salvador,  they  would  refer  to  their  action  as  the  Revolution  of 
1948. 

The  coup  leaders  established  a  junta,  which  was  referred  to  as 
the  Revolutionary  Council;  it  included  three  mid-level  officers  and 
two  civilian  professionals.  The  council  ruled  for  some  twenty-one 
months  and  guided  the  country  toward  comparatively  open  elec- 
tions in  March  1950.  During  this  period,  it  became  clear  that  Major 
Oscar  Osorio  was  the  dominant  force  within  the  junta  and  among 
the  officer  corps.  Osorio  was  so  sure  of  his  support  that  he  resigned 
from  the  junta  in  order  to  run  in  the  elections  as  the  candidate  of 
the  Revolutionary  Party  of  Democratic  Unification  (Partido  Revolu- 
cionario  de  Unification  Democratica — PRUD). 

Osorio  eked  out  a  victory  over  Colonel  Jose  Asencio  Menendez 
of  the  Renovating  Action  Party  (Partido  Action  Renovadora — 
PAR)  and  went  on  to  establish  the  PRUD  as  a  quasi-official  party 
modeled  roughly  on  the  Institutional  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido 
Revolucionario  Institucional — PRI)  of  Mexico.  Although  the 
PRUD  enjoyed  some  measure  of  support,  it  was  never  able  to 


18 


Revolution  Monument,  San  Salvador 


replicate  the  broad  base  of  the  PRI,  mainly  because  the  process 
that  produced  the  PRUD — the  so-called  Revolution  of  1948 — was 
not  itself  a  mass  movement. 

The  policies  of  Osorio  and  his  successor,  Lieutenant  Colonel  Jose 
Maria  Lemus,  were  distinctly  different  from  those  of  previous  Sal- 
vadoran  leaders.  They  emphasized  economic  development,  pub- 
lic works,  the  diversification  of  agriculture,  the  establishment  of 


19 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

such  programs  as  social  security  (including  medical  and  hospital 
care),  and  improvements  in  sanitation  and  housing.  Union  organi- 
zation was  encouraged,  and  collective  bargaining  was  instituted. 
All  this  was  accomplished  within  the  boundaries  of  guided  reform; 
no  measures  were  taken  that  might  have  threatened  the  elite- 
dominated  system  (agrarian  reform,  for  example,  was  never  at- 
tempted), and  radical  elements  were  discouraged  or  eliminated 
through  repressive  means. 

The  election  of  Lemus  in  1956  did  much  to  discourage  the 
notion  of  possible  political  pluralism  in  El  Salvador.  As  the  candi- 
date of  the  PRUD,  Lemus  initially  was  challenged  by  the  standard- 
bearers  of  three  other  ad  hoc  parties.  The  most  popular  of  the  three 
appeared  to  be  Roberto  Canessa^  a  civilian  who  had  served  as 
Osorio's  foreign  minister.  A  month  before  the  election,  however, 
Canessa  was  disqualified  by  the  government-controlled  Central 
Electoral  Council  on  a  technicality.  Another  opposition  candidate 
was  barred  from  the  race  because  of  allegations  of  fiscal  impropri- 
ety during  his  tenure  as  ambassador  to  Guatemala.  Although  the 
opposition  attempted  to  unite  behind  the  remaining  candidate, 
Lemus  topped  the  official  election  returns  with  an  improbable  93 
percent  of  the  vote. 

Perhaps  in  an  effort  to  make  amends  for  the  means  by  which 
he  came  to  office,  Lemus  initially  took  some  conciliatory  steps,  such 
as  declaring  a  general  amnesty  for  political  prisoners  and  exiles, 
voiding  a  number  of  repressive  laws  left  over  from  previous  re- 
gimes, and  selecting  men  of  recognized  probity  and  ability  for  his 
cabinet.  The  course  of  his  administration,  however,  was  dominated 
by  economic  events.  A  decline  in  the  export  prices  of  coffee  and 
cotton  and  the  resultant  drop  in  income  and  revenue  exposed  the 
weakness  of  the  PRUD's  limited  reforms.  Heavy-handed  political 
manipulations  by  the  government  and  the  party,  in  particular  the 
approval  of  a  new  electoral  law  that  all  but  precluded  an  effective 
opposition,  exacerbated  widespread  dissatisfaction  with  the  Lemus 
government.  After  1959  the  influence  of  what  then  appeared  to 
be  a  popular,  nationalistic  revolutionary  movement  in  Cuba  was 
felt  in  El  Salvador  as  it  was  throughout  Latin  America.  Student 
groups  were  particularly  inspired  by  the  example  of  Fidel  Castro 
Ruz  and  his  revolutionaries.  Public  demonstrations  in  San  Salvador 
called  for  Lemus' s  removal  and  the  imposition  of  a  truly  democratic 
system.  The  president  responded  by  abandoning  his  earlier  efforts 
at  reform  in  favor  of  heightened  repression.  Free  expression  and 
assembly  were  banned,  and  political  dissidents  were  detained  arbi- 
trarily. 


20 


Historical  Setting 


This  instability  provoked  concern  among  important  political 
actors  in  El  Salvador.  For  the  elite,  the  government's  emphasis 
on  economic  development  was  pointless  under  such  a  climate;  the 
emerging  middle  class  likewise  felt  a  threat  to  its  gains  from  the 
specter  of  revolution;  and  the  military  reacted  almost  reflexively 
to  the  spectacle  of  a  president  who  had  lost  control.  Lemus  was 
deposed  in  a  bloodless  coup  on  October  26,  1960. 

Governmental  authority  again  passed  into  the  hands  of  a  military- 
civilian  junta.  The  ranking  military  representative  was  Lieutenant 
Colonel  Julio  Adalberto  Rivera.  Aside  from  Rivera,  the  junta  mem- 
ber who  drew  the  most  attention  was  Fabio  Castillo,  a  university 
professor  and  known  sympathizer  with  the  Cuban  Revolution. 
Castillo's  presence,  along  with  the  renewed  reformist  policies  of 
the  junta,  convinced  the  elite  and  the  conservative  military  officers 
that  the  government  was  influenced  by  communism.  Again,  it  was 
the  military  that  acted  to  head  off  this  perceived  threat  to  stability. 
A  coup  by  young  officers  overthrew  the  junta  on  January  25,  1961 . 
The  officers  affirmed  their  anticommunist  and  anti-Castro  con- 
victions, retained  Rivera  as  part  of  a  new  junta,  and  promised 
elections. 

The  Christian  Democrats:  A  Centrist  Alternative? 

The  electoral  preparations  that  had  begun  under  the  1960  junta 
stimulated  the  mobilization  of  political  parties  of  moderate  and  leftist 
inclinations.  These  opposition  parties  were  unable  to  establish  their 
organizations  and  followings  sufficiently  to  present  any  effective 
challenge  to  the  1962  election  of  Rivera  to  the  presidency.  Rivera 
ran  as  the  candidate  of  the  National  Conciliation  Party  (Partido 
de  Conciliation  Nacional — PCN),  which  would  succeed  the  PRUD 
as  the  official  party  in  El  Salvador.  The  PCN  began  as  a  splinter 
group  from  the  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata 
Cristiano — PDC),  which  eventually  became  the  leading  opponent 
of  the  PCN  and  a  major  force  for  peaceful  change  in  the  Salva- 
doran  system. 

The  PDC  had  been  founded  in  November  1960.  The  party  grew 
out  of  informal  meetings  among  middle-  and  upper-class  activists 
who  sought  to  devise  a  vehicle  to  represent  their  interests  in  the 
political  arena.  The  concerns  of  the  Salvadoran  middle  class  by 
and  large  revolved  around  economic  progress  and  political  stabil- 
ity. It  saw  the  prospects  for  both  concerns  threatened  from  the 
political  right  and  from  the  left.  The  Salvadoran  right  stifled  popular 
aspirations  through  its  adamant  opposition  to  reform  and  its  sup- 
port for  the  elite-dominated  economic  system.  The  left  promised 
to  abandon  the  capitalist  model  that  had  created  the  middle  class 


21 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

in  favor  of  a  communistic  system.  Fidel  Castro's  communist  lean- 
ings were  confirmed  in  1961  when  he  declared  that  he  was,  and 
had  been  since  his  student  days,  a  Marxist- Leninist.  From  the  per- 
spective of  the  PDC's  founders,  the  only  way  to  protect  their  gains 
and  ensure  their  future  and  that  of  the  middle-class  sectors  as  a 
whole  was  to  achieve  representation  within  the  governmental  sys- 
tem. To  reach  this  goal,  they  saw  the  need  to  follow  a  centrist  path 
that  would  incorporate  more  Salvadorans  into  the  political  process 
without  exerting  undue  pressure  on  the  prevailing  economic  order. 

The  ideologists  of  this  new  party,  principally  lawyers  Abraham 
Rodriguez  and  Roberto  Lara  Velado,  saw  Christian  democracy 
as  the  path  they  were  seeking.  The  roots  of  Christian  democratic 
ideology  extended  back  as  far  as  Pope  Leo  XIII' s  encyclical  Rerum 
Novarum  (1891),  which  called  on  Christians  to  work  for  social  and 
economic  reform.  Its  more  immediate  influences,  however,  were 
found  in  the  works  of  Pope  John  XXIII  and  the  French  philosopher 
Jacques  Maritain.  The  Christian  democratic  movements  in  Chile 
and  Venezuela  also  served  as  role  models.  The  founders  of  the  PDC, 
including  the  civil  engineer  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes,  em- 
phasized the  ideological  basis  of  the  party — its  support  for  reform, 
its  call  for  the  application  of  moral  principles  to  political  and  eco- 
nomic life,  and  its  rejection  of  extremist  solutions  such  as  those 
advocated  by  Marxism — as  a  new  development  in  Salvadoran 
politics.  This  was  true,  but  only  to  the  extent  that  party  members 
accepted  that  ideology  and  acted  upon  it.  Duarte  himself  came  to 
the  PDC  without  a  strong  ideological  grounding,  but  his  belief  in 
the  possibility  of  peaceful  democratic  change,  as  well  as  his  per- 
sonal magnetism,  made  up  for  that  initial  shortcoming. 

Duarte 's  practical  political  skills  eventually  made  him  the  PDC's 
leading  figure.  He  was  elected  to  the  post  of  secretary  general  at 
the  party's  first  convention  in  May  1961.  At  the  time,  his  selec- 
tion was  a  victory  for  those  party  members  who  referred  to  them- 
selves as  "purists,"  eschewing  collaboration  with  nonelected 
governments.  In  order  to  legitimize  its  rule,  the  ruling  junta  had 
approached  the  PDC  membership  about  participation  in  the  govern- 
ment, and  some  early  PDC  adherents  responded  favorably  to  this 
idea.  After  Duarte 's  election  to  party  leadership,  this  collabora- 
tionist faction  split  off  to  form  the  PCN.  Tied  into  the  system,  the 
PCN  went  on  to  sweep  all  the  available  seats  in  the  December  1961 
Constituent  Assembly  (see  Glossary)  elections  and  to  serve  as  the 
vehicle  for  Rivera's  election  to  the  presidency  in  April  1962. 

Rivera  was  a  proponent  of  the  sort  of  guided  reforms  initiated 
by  the  military's  revolution  of  1948.  His  developmentalist  economic 
policies  received  a  boost  from  the  United  States  in  the  form  of 


22 


Historical  Setting 


generous  aid  allocations  under  the  banner  of  United  States  presi- 
dent John  F.  Kennedy's  Alliance  for  Progress.  Although  he  dis- 
cussed publicly  the  need  for  economic  reforms,  including  agrarian 
reform,  Rivera  did  nothing  to  further  them.  Perhaps  his  major  con- 
tribution to  Salvadoran  political  life  was  the  decision  to  allow  the 
participation  of  opposition  parties  through  a  liberalized  electoral 
system  that  called  for  proportional  representation  in  the  country's 
Legislative  Assembly.  Previously,  the  party  that  won  the  most  votes 
in  each  department  (the  equivalent  of  states  under  the  Salvadoran 
system)  was  awarded  all  the  legislative  seats  allocated  to  that  depart- 
ment. The  proportional  allocation  of  seats  based  on  each  party's 
departmental  electoral  showing  represented  a  significant  step  for- 
ward for  the  opposition,  which  obtained  some  voice  in  government 
even  if  it  was  still  denied  any  real  power. 

In  March  1964,  the  first  elections  were  held  under  the  new  sys- 
tem. Although  the  PCN  retained  an  unchallenged  majority  in  the 
Legislative  Assembly,  the  PDC  won  fourteen  seats  in  that  body, 
along  with  thirty-seven  mayoralties.  Perhaps  the  most  significant 
victory  was  Duarte's  election  as  mayor  of  San  Salvador.  He  built 
a  strong  base  of  popular  support  in  this  post  through  improvements 
in  municipal  services  and  the  organization  of  local  self-help  groups 
to  promote  small-scale  civic  improvements  such  as  school  renova- 
tions, establishment  and  maintenance  of  parks,  and  adult  educa- 
tion programs.  He  was  reelected  in  1966  and  1968.  Leadership  of 
the  populous  capital  city  heightened  Duarte's  political  profile  and 
made  him  a  national  figure. 

Strong  economic  growth  in  the  early  1960s  solidified  the  posi- 
tion of  the  PCN  as  the  official  party.  The  leadership  of  the  party 
was  drawn  mainly  from  the  ranks  of  middle-class  professionals.  It 
cannot  be  said  to  have  represented  the  interests  of  that  class, 
however.  The  most  important  constituency  of  the  PCN  was  the 
military;  without  its  support  and  cooperation,  the  party  could  not 
have  governed.  PCN  governments  protected  the  political  power 
and  social  and  economic  perquisites  that  the  officer  corps  had  long 
enjoyed.  They  also  preserved,  at  least  for  a  time,  the  domestic  sta- 
bility required  for  economic  growth  within  the  prevailing  elite- 
dominated  system.  Like  many  other  Latin  American  militaries, 
the  Salvadoran  armed  forces  saw  the  maintenance  of  the  societal 
status  quo  as  serving  their  best  interests.  The  PCN  shared  this  con- 
servative viewpoint  and  worked  closely  with  the  military  leader- 
ship, seeking  its  advice  and  support  on  policy  initiatives  and  political 
issues.  In  essence,  under  the  PCN  the  military  continued  to  rule 
El  Salvador  from  behind  the  scenes.  The  electoral  base  of  the  PCN 
was  found  among  the  peasantry.  Latin  American  peasants  are  on 


23 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


the  whole  a  politically  conservative  group;  in  rural  El  Salvador, 
this  natural  tendency  was  reinforced  by  the  ubiquitous  presence 
of  the  armed  forces. 

The  political  perceptions  of  certain  Salvadoran  sectors,  particu- 
larly agricultural  and  business  interests,  led  them  to  oppose  the 
PDC  and  favor  the  PCN.  Although  it  was  a  moderate  party  by 
Latin  American  standards,  the  PDC  was  seen  by  the  Salvadoran 
right  as  a  dangerously  left-wing  organization.  The  Christian 
Democrats'  occasional  use  of  the  words  revolution  or  revolutionary  to 
describe  their  vision  of  social  reform  invoked  in  the  minds  of  large 
landowners  and  businessmen  images  of  Castro's  Cuba,  a  prospect 
they  would  go  to  any  lengths  to  avoid  in  El  Salvador. 

The  leading  contenders  in  the  elections  of  1967  were  the  PCN, 
the  PDC,  and  the  PAR.  The  PCN's  candidate  was  Rivera's  in- 
terior minister,  Colonel  Fidel  Sanchez  Hernandez.  The  PDC 
nominated  Abraham  Rodriguez,  who  proved  to  be  a  lackluster  cam- 
paigner. The  PAR  had  undergone  an  internal  dispute  that  led  its 
more  conservative  members  to  bolt  and  form  a  new  party,  the  Sal- 
vadoran Popular  Party  (Partido  Popular  Salvadoreno — PPS).  The 
PPS  chose  as  its  candidate  a  retired  army  major,  Alvaro  Marti- 
nez. The  remaining  leftist  members  of  the  PAR  nominated  Fabio 
Castillo,  who  had  served  on  the  1960  junta.  By  the  standards  of 
the  Salvadoran  right,  Castillo  was  a  communist. 

The  issue  of  the  supposed  communist  nature  of  the  PAR  came 
to  dominate  the  1967  campaign.  By  election  day,  the  PAR  had 
been  denied  media  access  by  broadcasters  who  either  disagreed  with 
the  party's  political  line  or  feared  some  retaliation  from  the  govern- 
ment if  they  granted  air  time  to  the  PAR.  The  PDC  condemned 
the  red-baiting  engaged  in  by  Sanchez  and  the  PCN,  even  though 
many  Christian  Democrats  differed  with  some  of  the  proposals  made 
by  Castillo,  such  as  establishing  relations  with  Cuba  and  broadening 
ties  with  other  communist  countries.  In  the  balloting  on  March 
5 ,  the  PAR  actually  garnered  more  votes  in  San  Salvador  than  did 
the  PDC,  although  the  Christian  Democrats  had  a  better  showing 
in  rural  areas  than  they  had  anticipated.  All  of  this  was  academic 
in  terms  of  the  presidential  race,  however,  since  Sanchez  won  an 
absolute  majority.  In  general  terms,  though,  the  1967  elections 
demonstrated  increased  voter  participation  and  a  growing  accep- 
tance of  the  political  process  as  a  legitimate  means  of  popular  ex- 
pression. 

The  1969  War  with  Honduras 

Like  many  other  conflicts  in  Salvadoran  history,  the  1969  war 
with  Honduras,  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Soccer  War,  was 


24 


Historical  Setting 


rooted  in  economic  disparity.  El  Salvador  is  a  small  country  with 
a  large  and  rapidly  growing  population  and  a  severely  limited 
amount  of  available  land.  Honduras  is  a  larger  country  with  a 
smaller  population  and  a  less-developed  economy.  By  1969  some 
300,000  Salvadorans  had  drifted  over  the  border  and  taken  up  resi- 
dence in  more  sparsely  populated  Honduras.  The  vast  majority 
of  these  Salvadorans  were  squatters,  technically  illegal  immigrants 
whose  sole  claim  to  the  land  they  worked  was  their  physical  presence 
on  it.  For  Hondurans,  the  land  itself  was  not  so  much  the  issue. 
What  rankled  them  was  the  image  of  being  pushed  and  potentially 
enveloped  by  the  Salvadorans.  Throughout  the  1960s,  the  mecha- 
nisms of  the  Central  American  Common  Market  (see  Glossary) 
worked  to  the  advantage  of  the  more  developed  economies  of  the 
region,  particularly  those  of  Guatemala  and  El  Salvador.  The 
growth  of  Salvadoran-owned  businesses  in  Honduras — shoe  stores 
were  the  most  visible  of  these  enterprises — underscored  for  Hon- 
durans the  relative  economic  disparity  between  the  two  countries. 
The  issue  of  the  Salvadoran  squatters,  despite  its  lack  of  real  eco- 
nomic significance,  became  a  nationalistic  sore  point  for  Honduras, 
a  question  of  adding  territorial  insult  to  perceived  economic  injury. 

The  border  situation  became  increasingly  tense  during  the  two 
years  preceding  the  outbreak  of  hostilities.  In  early  1969,  the  regime 
of  Honduran  president  Oswaldo  Lopez  Arellano  (1963-71)  invoked 
a  dormant  agrarian  reform  law  as  a  pretext  to  evict  Salvadoran 
squatters  and  expel  them  from  the  country.  The  Lopez  govern- 
ment was  experiencing  economic  and  political  difficulties  and  saw 
the  Salvadorans  as  convenient  scapegoats.  Stories  and  images  of 
displaced  refugees  filled  the  Salvadoran  press  and  the  airwaves. 
Tales  of  violent  displacement  by  the  Honduran  military  began  to 
circulate  throughout  El  Salvador.  Tension  between  the  two  coun- 
tries continued  to  build.  The  incident  that  provoked  active  hostili- 
ties— and  lent  the  conflict  its  popular  designation  as  the  Soccer 
War — took  place  in  San  Salvador  in  June  1969.  During  and  after 
a  soccer  match  between  the  Honduran  and  Salvadoran  national 
teams,  the  Honduran  team  members  were  vilified  and  harassed 
by  Salvadoran  fans.  The  reportage  of  this  incident  brought  mat- 
ters to  a  fever  pitch. 

Beyond  national  pride  and  jingoism — which  was  expressed  by 
Duarte  and  the  PDC  with  a  fervor  equal  to  that  of  Sanchez  and 
the  PCN — the  Salvadorans  had  other  motivations  for  launching 
a  military  strike  against  Honduras  on  July  14,  1969.  The  influx 
of  displaced  Salvadoran  squatters  was  placing  a  burden  on  ser- 
vices and  threatening  to  provoke  widespread  social  unrest.  The  sit- 
uation was  undermining  the  political  support  of  the  Sanchez 


25 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

government;  action  against  Honduras  became  the  most  expedient 
option  to  turn  this  situation  around.  Although  war  with  Honduras 
almost  certainly  would  lead  to  the  breakdown  of  the  CACM,  the 
Salvadorans  were  willing  to  pay  that  price.  In  their  estimation,  the 
CACM  was  already  close  to  a  breakdown  over  the  issues  of  com- 
parative advantage;  war  with  Honduras  would  only  hasten  that 
outcome. 

The  actual  fighting  was  brief.  Despite  early  Salvadoran  air  strikes, 
the  Hondurans  eventually  dominated  in  that  area,  destroying  most 
of  the  Salvadoran  Air  Force.  The  Salvadoran  Army,  however, 
clearly  bested  the  Hondurans  on  the  ground.  The  Salvadorans 
pushed  rapidly  into  Honduran  territory  before  fuel  and  ammuni- 
tion shortages  and  diplomatic  efforts  by  representatives  of  the 
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS)  curtailed  their  progress. 
As  many  as  2,000  people,  mainly  civilians,  were  killed  in  the  action. 

The  war  had  a  number  of  immediate  repercussions.  The  Sal- 
vadorans had  expended  large  quantities  of  ordnance,  necessitat- 
ing heavy  military  expenditures  to  replenish  depleted  stocks.  Trade 
between  the  two  countries  was  disrupted  completely,  and  the 
CACM  ceased  to  function  as  anything  more  than  a  paper  entity. 
El  Salvador  lost  the  economic  "safety  valve"  formerly  provided 
by  illegal  emigration  to  Honduras;  land-based  pressures  again  began 
to  build.  Although  the  vast  majority  of  Salvadorans,  including  all 
the  legal  political  parties,  had  united  in  support  of  the  war,  this 
unity  did  not  last  long. 

Dashed  Hopes:  The  1972  Elections 

In  the  wake  of  the  Soccer  War,  the  PDC  sought  to  turn  the  issue 
of  unequal  land  distribution  to  its  political  advantage.  The  war  had 
not  only  highlighted  this  issue,  it  had  exacerbated  it.  Returning 
refugees  were  unable  to  resume  the  kind  of  farming  they  had  prac- 
ticed in  Honduras;  their  employment  opportunities  as  coffee 
laborers,  always  limited  and  seasonal  in  nature,  were  restricted  still 
further  by  the  scale  of  the  war-induced  influx.  Pressure  intensified 
for  some  kind  of  land  reform. 

The  PDC  was  the  first  political  party  to  drop  out  of  the  so-called 
National  Unity  Front  that  had  been  formed  to  support  the  war  ef- 
fort against  Honduras.  Party  spokesmen  began  to  push  the  issue 
of  full  agrarian  reform,  including  credit  and  technical  assistance, 
as  a  major  platform  plank  for  the  1972  presidential  elections.  The 
thinking  of  the  Christian  Democrats  on  this  question  was  as  much 
practical  as  idealistic.  Agrarian  reform  was  not  just  a  popular  rally- 
ing point  for  them;  it  was  also  seen  as  a  way  to  establish  a  new 
class  of  small-  to  medium- sized  landholders  who  would  presumably 


26 


Historical  Setting 


demonstrate  some  loyalty  to  the  party  and  government  that  granted 
them  that  status.  This  was  a  common  strategy  for  Latin  American 
Christian  democratic  parties,  in  keeping  with  their  advocacy  of  free- 
enterprise  reformism. 

The  Legislative  Assembly  provided  a  tangible  demonstration  of 
the  appeal  of  agrarian  reform  in  January  1970  when  it  convened 
the  National  Agrarian  Reform  Congress  in  San  Salvador.  The  con- 
gress included  representatives  from  the  government,  the  opposition, 
labor,  and  business  groups.  Its  convocation  was  an  unprecedented 
event  in  Salvadoran  history,  even  though  it  was  charged  only  with 
making  recommendations,  not  policy.  Moreover,  those  recommen- 
dations turned  out  to  be,  by  Salvadoran  standards,  revolutionary. 
They  included  a  call  for  massive  land  expropriation  by  the  govern- 
ment in  order  to  achieve  a  more  equitable  and  productive  distri- 
bution of  national  resources.  The  delegates  judged  that  landholdings 
above  a  certain  size  could  be  characterized  as  fulfilling  no  legiti- 
mate "social  function"  and  were  thus  legally  liable  to  expropria- 
tion under  the  constitution.  This  call  for  expropriation  actually 
exceeded  what  had  been  called  for  in  the  PDC's  reform  program. 
By  agreeing  to  the  resolutions  of  the  congress,  however,  the  PDC 
effectively  incorporated  expropriation  into  its  political  agenda.  By 
so  doing,  it  provoked  further  misgivings  among  the  elite  and 
conservative  sectors  of  the  military  with  regard  to  the  party's  in- 
tentions should  it  achieve  power. 

The  legislative  and  municipal  elections  of  March  1970  were  dis- 
couraging for  the  PDC,  as  it  dropped  three  seats  in  the  Legislative 
Assembly  and  lost  control  of  seventy  municipalities.  Electoral  fraud 
was  alleged  against  the  PCN  by  the  PDC  and  other  opposition  par- 
ties, but  fraud  never  was  proved.  Nevertheless,  the  Christian 
Democrats  confidently  looked  toward  the  1972  presidential  ballot- 
ing. Duarte,  the  party's  most  popular  figure,  had  agreed  to  resign 
the  mayoralty  of  San  Salvador  and  head  the  national  ticket.  Despite 
the  1970  results,  there  were  signs  of  weakening  popular  support 
for  the  PCN  stemming  from  economic  decline.  Agrarian  reform 
provided  a  strong  issue  for  a  national  campaign.  One  problem  that 
confronted  the  PDC  was  internal  in  nature  and  concerned  a  dis- 
pute over  tactics.  One  faction  of  the  party  advocated  a  direct  or- 
ganizational challenge  to  the  PCN  in  its  rural  strongholds,  whereas 
another  faction  stressed  the  need  to  radicalize  PDC  doctrine  and 
programs  in  an  effort  to  draw  a  sharper  contrast  between  it  and 
the  ruling  party.  Duarte,  not  wishing  to  become  embroiled  in  this 
potentially  divisive  debate,  resigned  as  party  secretary  general  and 
generally  sought  to  remain  above  the  fray. 


27 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

The  1972  elections  took  place  in  an  uneasy  political  atmosphere. 
The  1970  election  of  socialist  Salvador  Allende  Gossens  as  presi- 
dent of  Chile  had  resurrected  anxieties  over  communist  gains  in 
Latin  America.  This  concern  was  shared  not  only  by  the  political 
right  and  the  military  but  also  by  the  majority  of  Christian 
Democrats.  In  El  Salvador,  organizational  efforts  by  leftist  parties 
such  as  the  PCES  and  by  activist  Roman  Catholic  clergy  were 
viewed  with  alarm  by  conservative  sectors.  The  fears  of  the  eco- 
nomic elite  in  particular  were  provoked  by  the  1971  kidnapping 
and  murder  of  Ernesto  Regalado  Duefias,  the  son  of  a  prominent 
family,  by  a  leftist  terrorist  organization  calling  itself ' ' the  Group" 
(see  Left- Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  A  protracted  teachers'  strike 
in  1971  only  added  to  the  unsettied  climate  prevailing  in  the  country. 

The  PDC  opted  to  participate  in  the  elections  as  the  leading  party 
of  a  coalition  designated  the  United  National  Opposition  (Union 
Nacional  Opositora — UNO).  The  other  members  of  the  coalition 
were  smaller  and  more  radical  than  the  PDC .  The  National  Revolu- 
tionary Movement  (Movimiento  Nacional  Revolucionario — MNR) 
was  originally  a  social  democratic  party.  The  MNR  was  pushed 
farther  to  the  left,  however,  as  former  PAR  supporters  joined  its 
ranks  after  their  party  was  legally  proscribed  in  1967.  The  National 
Democratic  Union  (Union  Democratica  Nacional — UDN)  was  an 
even  smaller  grouping  that  had  once  described  itself  as  the  party 
of  the  noncommunist  left  in  El  Salvador.  By  this  time,  however, 
the  UDN  had  been  infiltrated  by  the  PCES  and  was  functioning 
as  a  communist  front  group.  Despite  the  leftist  leanings  of  the  MNR 
and  UDN  and  the  lingering  effect  of  the  agrarian  reform  congress, 
the  UNO  platform  was  moderate  in  tone,  calling  for  measured  re- 
form, respect  for  private  property,  and  the  protection  of  private 
investment.  As  expected,  Duarte  was  tapped  as  the  presidential 
candidate.  He  in  turn  chose  the  MNR's  Guillermo  Manuel  Ungo 
Revelo  as  his  running  mate. 

President  Sanchez  chose  Colonel  Arturo  Armando  Molina  as 
the  PCN  candidate.  The  PPS  also  entered  the  contest,  led  by  Jose 
Antonio  Rodriguez  Porth.  A  small  PCN  splinter  party  calling  it- 
self the  United  Democratic  Independent  Front,  funded  by  some 
leading  oligarchic  families,  rounded  out  the  field.  The  campaign 
was  a  violent  and  dangerous  one  for  the  opposition.  UNO's  lead- 
ers decried  numerous  incidents  of  harassment,  kidnapping,  and 
assault  against  their  activists.  The  leading  perpetrators  of  these  ac- 
tions, according  to  the  opposition,  were  troops  of  the  GN.  Further 
roadblocks  were  thrown  in  the  way  of  UNO  by  the  PCN-controlled 
Central  Electoral  Council,  which  disqualified  the  opposition 
coalition's  candidate  slates  for  the  Legislative  Assembly  in  the 


28 


Historical  Setting 


departments  of  San  Salvador,  San  Miguel,  Usulutan,  Sonsonate, 
La  Union,  and  San  Vicente. 

The  actual  vote  count  in  the  presidential  balloting  of  February  20, 
1972,  probably  will  never  be  known.  As  expected,  Duarte  ran 
strongly  in  San  Salvador,  offsetting  the  traditional  PCN  advan- 
tage in  the  countryside.  Poll  watchers  for  UNO  claimed  that  the 
final  tally  nationwide  was  327,000  for  Duarte  and  318,000  for 
Molina.  Tabulations  were  suspended  by  the  government,  however, 
and  a  recount  was  initiated.  The  official  results  of  that  count  placed 
Molina  ahead  of  Duarte  by  10,000  votes.  The  selection  of  the  presi- 
dent thus  was  relegated  to  the  assembly,  where  the  PCN  majority 
affirmed  Molina's  tainted  victory  after  a  walkout  by  opposition 
deputies.  An  appeal  by  Duarte  and  Ungo  for  new  balloting  was 
denied  by  the  Central  Electoral  Council. 

The  blatancy  of  the  fraud  employed  to  maintain  the  PCN  in 
power  outraged  and  disillusioned  many  Salvadorans,  including 
members  of  the  armed  forces.  One  faction  of  the  officer  corps,  a 
new  Military  Youth,  attempted  to  take  direct  action  to  redress  the 
official  exploitation  of  a  system  that  had  until  that  point  shown 
some  promise  of  evolving  in  a  genuinely  democratic  direction.  This 
group  of  young  army  officers,  led  by  Colonel  Benjamin  Mejia, 
launched  a  coup  on  March  25,  1972.  Their  immediate  goal  was 
the  establishment  of  a  "revolutionary  junta. "  It  seemed  clear, 
however,  that  the  officers  favored  the  installation  of  Duarte  as 
president. 

Mejia  and  his  followers  initiated  their  action  by  seizing  the 
presidential  residence  and  taking  Sanchez  and  some  of  his  family 
members  hostage.  From  that  point  on,  however,  events  ran  against 
the  insurgents.  The  thunder  of  aerial  bombing  over  the  capital  soon 
announced  the  loyalty  of  the  air  force  to  the  government.  The  coup 
attempt  never  gained  the  support  of  more  than  a  minority  within 
the  officer  corps,  and  that  only  in  the  army.  Some  residents  of  the 
capital  took  to  the  streets  in  support  of  the  young  officers,  but  they 
were  no  match  for  the  loyalist  military  forces.  In  desperation,  Mejia 
turned  to  Duarte,  urging  him  to  deliver  a  radio  address  in  support 
of  the  rebels.  Despite  some  misgivings,  Duarte  agreed.  His  address 
was  broadcast  shortly  after  noon  and  may  have  saved  some  lives 
by  warning  civilians  to  evacuate  areas  targeted  for  rebel  artillery 
strikes.  Its  overall  impact,  however,  was  insufficient  to  reverse  the 
tide  of  action  in  the  streets.  Loyalist  forces  regained  effective  con- 
trol of  San  Salvador  by  early  that  evening. 

Like  many  other  government  opponents,  Duarte  sought  refuge 
within  the  foreign  diplomatic  community.  He  was  taken  in  by  the 
first  secretary  of  the  Venezuelan  embassy  but  was  soon  tracked 


29 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

down  by  government  security  forces,  who  broke  into  the  diplomat's 
house  and  dragged  Duarte  away  amidst  kicks  and  blows  from  rifle 
butts.  The  Christian  democratic  leader  was  detained  briefly,  beaten, 
and  interrogated,  then  dispatched  to  Guatemala.  From  there,  he 
flew  to  exile  in  Venezuela.  He  left  behind  a  country  where  aspira- 
tions for  change  had  been  dashed  and  where  repression  was  once 
again  the  official  antidote  to  dissent. 

The  1970s:  The  Road  to  Revolt 

The  government  of  President  Molina  attempted  to  exert  old- 
fashioned  coercive  control  over  the  country,  using  a  relatively  new 
instrument,  a  peasant  organization  known  as  the  Nationalist 
Democratic  Organization  (Organizacion  Democratica  Nacio- 
nalista — Orden).  Orden  was  established  partially  in  secret  in  the 
early  1960s  by  then  President  Rivera  and  General  Jose  Alberto 
"Chele"  Medrano  in  association  with  the  GN,  which  provided 
some  level  of  counterinsurgent  training  to  peasant  cells  through- 
out the  countryside.  The  counterinsurgent  orientation  of  Orden 
was  in  keeping  with  the  anticommunist  tenor  of  the  times  and  the 
general  intent  of  military  training  and  assistance  provided  to  the 
armed  forces  of  the  region  by  the  United  States.  Orden,  however, 
never  became  a  military  force  per  se  but  functioned  as  a  paramili- 
tary adjunct  and  an  important  part  of  the  rural  intelligence  network 
for  the  security  forces.  By  the  late  1970s,  its  membership  report- 
edly totaled  100,000. 

While  Orden  served  as  the  eyes  and  ears  of  the  security  forces 
in  rural  areas,  the  military  was  confronted  with  a  growing  new 
phenomenon  in  the  urban  setting,  that  of  left-wing  terrorism.  Soon 
after  the  failed  coup  attempt  of  1972,  kidnappings  for  ransom  and 
hit-and-run  attacks  on  government  buildings  and  other  targets  be- 
came increasingly  common  in  San  Salvador.  The  groups  claiming 
credit  for  the  majority  of  these  actions  were  the  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Army  (Ejercito  Revolucionario  del  Pueblo — ERP)  and  the 
Farabundo  Marti  Popular  Liberation  Forces  (Fuerzas  Populares 
de  Liberacion  Farabundo  Marti — FPL),  both  radical  offshoots  of 
the  PCES  (the  ERP  was  the  new  designation  of  "the  Group"  that 
had  killed  Regalado  in  1971). 

In  1969  the  initial  split  took  place  between  the  followers  of  party 
leader  Salvador  Cayetano  Carpio  ("Marcial"),  a  Maoist  advocate 
of  a  revolutionary  "prolonged  popular  war"  strategy  for  achiev- 
ing power,  and  those  of  Jorge  Shafik  Handal,  who  held  to  the 
prevailing  Moscow-line  strategy  of  electoral  participation.  By 
the  end  of  the  1970s,  however,  political  violence  and  instability 
had  increased  markedly,  strengthening  the  position  of  those  who 


30 


Historical  Setting 


advocated  a  violent  path  to  power.  The  success  of  the  1979 
Nicaraguan  revolution  led  by  the  Marxist  Sandinista  National 
Liberation  Front  (Frente  Sandinista  de  Liberacion  Nacional — 
FSLN)  apparently  served  to  alter  the  thinking  of  policymakers  in 
the  Soviet  Union,  leading  them  to  endorse  the  strategy  of  "armed 
struggle"  long  advocated  by  Cuba.  By  the  end  of  the  decade,  no 
less  than  five  Marxist  guerrilla  groups,  including  one  directly  af- 
filiated with  the  PCES,  were  recruiting  members  for  military  and 
terrorist  action  against  the  government  (see  Left- Wing  Extremism, 
ch.  5). 

Popular  support  for  radical  leftist  groups  appeared  to  expand 
rapidly  in  El  Salvador  in  the  mid-1970s,  although  the  ideological 
uniformity  of  that  support  was  suspect.  The  vehicles  for  the  mobili- 
zation of  the  "masses"  behind  a  revolutionary  program  of  radical 
reform  were  the  so-called  mass  organizations  (also  known  as  popular 
organizations).  Established  and  run  clandestinely  by  the  guerrilla 
groups,  these  organizations  drew  much  of  their  leadership  from 
radical  Roman  Catholic  groups  known  as  Christian  Base  Commu- 
nities (Comunidades  Eclesiasticas  de  Base — CEBs)  that  had  been 
established  by  activist  clergy  throughout  the  country.  The  largest 
of  the  mass  organizations  was  the  FPL-affiliated  Revolutionary 
Popular  Bloc  (Bloque  Popular  Revolucionario — BPR),  with  nine 
constituent  peasant  groups  and  an  estimated  60,000  members. 
Other  mass  organizations  included  urban  trade  unions  among  their 
ranks.  Through  public  demonstrations,  strikes,  seizures  of  build- 
ings, and  propaganda  campaigns,  these  organizations  sought  to 
undermine  the  government  and  create  conditions  conducive  to  a 
revolutionary  assumption  of  power  by  the  left. 

Right-wing  reaction  to  the  rise  of  the  radical  left  took  several 
forms.  The  Molina  government  made  a  belated  and  feeble  attempt 
to  appease  rural  demands  for  land  by  passing  a  law  in  1974  calling 
for  the  forced  rental  or  possible  expropriation  of  unexploited  or 
inefficiently  used  land,  but  the  law  was  not  enforced.  The  govern- 
ment, however,  took  another  step  toward  reform  in  1976,  when 
it  declared  an  agrarian  transformation  zone  of  some  60,000  hect- 
ares in  San  Miguel  and  Usulutan  departments  that  was  to  be  di- 
vided among  12,000  peasant  families.  Large  landowners,  incensed 
by  this  prospect,  sent  a  delegation  to  meet  with  the  president,  who 
subsequently  agreed  to  exempt  from  redistribution  all  lands  ful- 
filling a  "social  function."  This  euphemism  effectively  encompassed 
all  the  land  in  question,  and  the  redistribution  never  was  effected. 

Although  efforts  at  small-scale  reform  were  unsuccessful  in  the 
1970s,  the  other  side  of  the  reform-repression  coin  was  much  in 
evidence.  A  new  development  was  the  rise  in  nonofficial  repression 


31 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

from  the  shadowy  right-wing  bands  that  came  to  be  known  as  the 
"death  squads."  Apparently  bankrolled  by  the  oligarchy  and  draw- 
ing on  active-duty  and  former  military  personnel  for  their  mem- 
bers, the  squads  assassinated  "subversives"  in  an  effort  to 
discourage  further  antigovernment  activities  and  to  deter  poten- 
tial expansion  of  the  ranks  of  the  mass  organizations  and  other  pro- 
test groups.  From  the  perspective  of  the  Salvadoran  right,  the  most 
urgent  threat  emanated  from  the  CEBs,  which  by  the  mid-1970s 
had  incorporated  large  numbers  of  people  into  politicized  Bible 
study  and  self-help  groups.  The  death  squads  targeted  both  reli- 
gious and  lay  members  of  these  groups. 

The  first  of  the  squads  to  make  itself  known  publicly  was  the 
Wars  of  Elimination  Anti-Communist  Liberation  Armed  Forces 
(Fuerzas  Armadas  de  Liberation  Anti-comunista  de  Guerras  de 
Elimination — FALANGE),  a  title  obviously  concocted  more  for 
its  acronym  than  for  its  coherence.  Others,  such  as  the  White  War- 
riors Union  (Union  de  Guerreros  Blancos — UGB),  would  follow. 
These  organizations  found  their  inspiration  in  the  severe  anticom- 
munist  tactics  of  the  military  regimes  in  Guatemala  (many  Sal- 
vadoran death  squad  members  had  direct  ties  to  the  Guatemalan 
right)  and  Brazil.  The  example  of  extreme  military  reprisals  against 
the  left  in  Chile  after  the  1973  coup  against  Allende  also  was  in- 
fluential. 

Official  repression  also  prevailed  during  the  1970s.  Crowds  of 
antigovernment  demonstrators  that  had  assembled  in  the  capital 
were  fired  on  by  the  military  in  July  1975  and  February  1977.  The 
passage  of  the  Law  for  the  Defense  and  Guarantee  of  Public  Order 
in  November  1977  eliminated  almost  all  legal  restrictions  on  vio- 
lence against  civilians.  Political  scientist  Enrique  A.  Baloyra  has 
compiled  statistics  for  the  1972-79  period  showing  a  tenfold  in- 
crease in  political  assassinations,  a  tripling  in  the  prosecution  of 
"subversives,"  and  a  doubling  in  the  number  of  "disappeared." 

The  government's  record  in  the  electoral  arena  was  equally  dis- 
couraging for  the  opposition.  The  UNO  coalition  participated  in 
the  Legislative  Assembly  and  municipal  elections  of  1974.  Duarte 
even  managed  to  slip  back  into  the  country  to  campaign  briefly 
on  behalf  of  coalition  candidates.  His  efforts  were  wasted,  though, 
as  the  balloting  was  manipulated  even  more  flagrantly  than  that 
of  1972.  In  1976  the  opposition  parties  decided  that  electoral  par- 
ticipation was  pointless  and  declined  to  run  candidates.  Presiden- 
tial elections  in  1977  were  too  important  to  pass  up,  however.  The 
atmosphere  was  too  volatile  to  allow  another  run  by  Duarte,  so 
UNO  nominated  retired  Colonel  Ernesto  Claramount  Rozeville 
to  head  its  ticket.  He  was  opposed  by  the  official  PCN  candidate, 


32 


Historical  Setting 


General  Carlos  Humberto  Romero  Mena.  Once  again,  electoral 
fraud  was  clumsy  and  poorly  disguised.  Claramount,  his  running 
mate  Jose  Antonio  Morales  Ehrlich,  and  a  crowd  of  thousands 
gathered  in  the  Plaza  Libertad  in  San  Salvador  to  protest  Romero's 
election.  Their  assembly  was  the  occasion  for  the  February  1977 
attack  that  left  as  many  as  fifty  protesters  dead.  As  he  was  taken 
from  the  scene  in  a  Red  Cross  ambulance,  Claramount  declared, 
"This  is  not  the  end.  It  is  only  the  beginning." 

The  Reformist  Coup  of  1979 

The  tenure  of  President  Romero  was  characterized  by  the  aban- 
donment of  any  official  pretense  of  reform  and  a  precipitous  rise 
in  politically  motivated  violence.  The  leftist  guerrilla  groups  stepped 
up  their  operations — assassinations,  kidnappings,  and  bombings — 
as  a  form  of  self-defense,  as  retaliation  against  government  forces, 
and  as  part  of  a  larger  strategy  of  impelling  the  country  further 
toward  political  anarchy,  a  state  perceived  by  the  left  as  one  of  the 
"objective  conditions"  necessary  for  a  broad-based  antigovernment 
insurrection.  This  process  of  extreme  polarization  alarmed  those 
political  actors  who  saw  the  old  system  of  domination  by  the  mili- 
tary and  the  elite  as  no  longer  workable,  but  who  feared  the  con- 
sequences of  a  successful  communist-led  revolt.  This  loose  coali- 
tion included  young  military  officers,  Christian  democratic  and 
social  democratic  politicians,  and  more  progressive  Salvadoran  in- 
dustrialists. 

Many  of  these  groups,  with  the  exception  of  private  sector 
representatives,  came  together  in  August  1979  to  establish  a  polit- 
ical pressure  group  known  as  the  Popular  Forum  (Foro  Popular). 
The  Popular  Forum  issued  a  call  for  an  end  to  official  and  unoffi- 
cial repression,  the  establishment  of  political  pluralism,  short-term 
and  long-term  economic  reforms  (including  agrarian  reform),  and 
the  incorporation  of  the  mass  organizations  into  the  government. 
This  last  demand,  coupled  with  the  participation  in  the  Popular 
Forum  of  the  28  of  February  Popular  Leagues  (Ligas  Populares 
28  febrero — LP-28),  the  most  radical  of  the  mass  organizations 
(it  was  affiliated  with  the  ERP),  convinced  many  young  military 
officers  that  some  action  was  necessary  to  head  off  a  leftist  politi- 
cal victory  in  El  Salvador.  The  government  of  Anastasio  Somoza 
Debayle  in  Nicaragua  had  fallen  only  the  month  before,  and,  from 
the  point  of  view  of  the  Salvadoran  military,  the  Popular  Forum 
bore  a  suspicious  resemblance  to  the  Broad  Opposition  Front  that 
had  brought  the  FSLN  to  power  in  that  country.  Although  the  final 
form  and  nature  of  the  new  Nicaraguan  government  was  not  yet 
in  evidence,  the  dissolution  of  Somoza' s  National  Guard  was  seen 


33 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


in  El  Salvador  as  a  precedent  and  a  direct  threat  to  the  military 
institution. 

Thus,  in  a  climate  of  extreme  violence,  sharp  political  polariza- 
tion, and  potential  revolution,  yet  another  generation  of  young 
officers  staged  a  coup  in  an  effort  to  restore  order  and  address  popu- 
lar frustrations.  This  new  Military  Youth  deposed  President 
Romero  on  October  15,  1979,  issuing  a  proclamation  decrying  the 
violent,  corrupt,  and  exclusionary  nature  of  the  regime.  Beyond 
their  concern  with  preventing  "another  Nicaragua,"  the  young 
officers  also  were  motivated  by  a  desire  to  address  the  country's 
critical  economic  situation.  Their  vague  aspirations  in  this  regard 
apparently  revolved  around  the  achievement  of  an  acceptable  level 
of  political  stability  that  would  staunch  the  flight  of  capital  out  of 
the  country  and  restore  to  some  degree  the  smooth  functioning  of 
the  economy.  In  this  regard,  the  1979  coup  resembled  those  of  1948 
and  1960.  Where  it  differed,  however,  was  in  the  realization  that 
effective  and  radical  (by  Salvadoran  standards)  reforms  would  have 
to  be  included  in  their  program  even  at  the  risk  of  alienating  the 
economic  elite. 

The  first  junta  established  by  the  coup  leaders  included  the  officer 
who  headed  the  reformist  faction  within  the  officer  corps,  Colonel 
Adolfo  Arnoldo  Majano  Ramos,  along  with  another  officer  of  more 
uncertain  political  inclinations,  Colonel  Jaime  Abdul  Gutierrez. 
The  other  junta  members  were  Ungo  from  the  MNR,  Roman 
Mayorga  (a  former  president  of  the  Jesuit-run  Central  American 
University  Jose  Simeon  Canas),  and  Mario  Andino,  a  represen- 
tative of  the  private  sector.  This  junta  wasted  little  time  in  announc- 
ing and  attempting  to  implement  a  reformist  program.  It  enacted 
decrees  to  freeze  landholdings  over  ninety-eight  hectares  and  to 
nationalize  the  coffee  export  trade.  It  did  not  move  immediately 
to  effect  agrarian  reform,  but  it  promised  that  such  a  reform  would 
be  forthcoming.  Another  decree  officially  disbanded  Orden.  The 
implementation  of  that  decree,  like  that  of  many  others  during  the 
period  of  the  reformist  juntas,  was  hampered  seriously  by  the  limited 
influence  of  the  reformist  faction  over  the  more  conservative  secu- 
rity force  apparatus.  Perhaps  the  best  indication  of  this  limitation 
was  the  fact  that  the  level  of  violence  carried  out  by  the  security 
forces  against  members  of  the  mass  organizations  increased  after 
the  installation  of  the  junta. 

The  upswing  in  repression  against  the  left  reflected  not  only  the 
resistance  of  conservative  military  and  security  force  commanders 
but  also  the  outrage  expressed  by  elite  landowners  and  the  major- 
ity of  the  private  sector  over  the  reform  decrees  and  the  prospect 
of  even  more  wide-ranging  actions  to  come.  Some  observers  have 

34 


Historical  Setting 


alleged  that  the  campaign  of  terror  waged  by  the  death  squads  was 
organized  and  coordinated  by  conservative  officers  under  the  leader- 
ship of  Major  Roberto  D'Aubuisson  Arrieta,  a  member  of  the  coun- 
try's executive  intelligence  agency,  with  the  financial  backing  of 
the  oligarchy.  Although  the  evidence  for  this  sort  of  sweeping  con- 
spiratorial concept  is  inconclusive,  the  existence  of  ties  between  the 
economic  elite  and  security  force  personnel  seems  undeniable. 

The  military's  reaction  in  general  to  the  junta's  reformism  was 
mixed.  The  reformists  sought  to  incorporate  new  sectors  into  the 
political  system  but  stopped  short  of  including  the  mass  organiza- 
tions in  that  effort  because  of  the  radical  ties  of  those  organiza- 
tions. Conservative  officers,  led  by  the  defense  minister,  Colonel 
Guillermo  Garcia,  saw  the  reformists  as  playing  into  the  hands  of 
the  left,  weakening  the  military  institution,  and  increasing  the  likeli- 
hood of  a  seizure  of  power  by  "extremist"  elements.  Garcia,  abetted 
by  Gutierrez,  worked  to  undermine  the  reformists  by  excluding 
Majano's  followers  from  key  commands  and  positions  through 
transfer  or  denial  of  promotion.  The  majority  of  Salvadoran  officers 
seemed  to  fall  into  neither  the  reformist  nor  the  conservative  camp. 
Although  they  shared  a  generalized  anticommunism  and  a  strong 
commitment  to  the  military  institution,  they  were  not  sufficiently 
convinced  that  the  kind  of  radical  reform  advocated  by  the  junta 
was  necessary.  They  opted  for  a  sort  of  concerned  neutrality  and 
inaction  that  ultimately  worked  in  favor  of  the  aggressive  conser- 
vative faction. 

The  first  reformist  junta  eventually  failed  because  of  its  inabil- 
ity to  curb  the  increasing  violence  against  the  left.  It  was  replaced 
on  January  10,  1980,  by  a  second  junta.  Majano  and  Gutierrez 
remained  as  the  military  representatives,  but  the  civilian  members 
now  included  two  prominent  Christian  Democrats — the  party's 
1977  vice  presidential  candidate,  Morales,  and  Hector  Dada.  Jose 
Avalos  was  the  third  civilian,  replacing  Andino,  whose  departure 
left  the  government  without  significant  ties  to  the  private  sector. 
Direct  participation  in  the  government  by  the  Christian  Democrats 
was  by  no  means  universally  accepted  among  the  party  member- 
ship. It  was  viewed  as  a  bad  precedent  by  those  who  still  clung 
idealistically  to  their  commitment  to  the  democratic  process. 
Moreover,  the  actual  commitment  of  the  government  to  effective 
reform  was  still  questioned  by  the  more  progressive  members  of 
the  party.  On  a  practical  political  level,  some  felt  that  casting  the 
lot  of  the  PDC  with  that  of  the  junta  represented  too  great  a  risk 
of  the  party's  prestige  (admittedly  somewhat  eroded  at  that  point 
anyway)  for  too  little  possible  gain.  On  the  other  side  of  the  ledger, 
however,  proponents  of  participation  (including  Duarte,  who  had 


35 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

by  this  time  returned  from  Venezuela)  saw  it  as  an  opportunity 
to  effect  the  kind  of  reforms  that  the  party  had  long  advocated, 
to  establish  a  political  center  in  El  Salvador,  and  to  make  a  transi- 
tion to  a  genuinely  democratic  system. 

The  second  junta  was  dogged  by  the  human  rights  issue  no  less 
than  its  predecessor.  The  continued  high  level  of  political  violence 
was  attributable  not  only  to  the  actions  of  the  death  squads  and 
the  security  forces  but  also  to  the  decision  by  the  left  to  shun  cooper- 
ation with  the  junta  in  favor  of  a  call  for  armed  insurrection.  The 
three  major  mass  organizations,  along  with  the  UDN,  issued  such 
a  call  on  January  11,  1980.  They  established  an  umbrella  front 
designated  the  National  Coordinator,  subsequently  amended  to 
Revolutionary  Coordinator  of  the  Masses  (Coordinadora  Revolu- 
cionaria  de  las  Masas — CRM),  to  advance  "the  struggle."  The 
MNR  endorsed  the  manifesto  of  the  CRM,  further  undermining 
the  legitimacy  of  the  junta  government.  The  heightened  militancy 
of  the  CRM  was  manifested  in  stepped-up  demonstrations,  occu- 
pations of  churches  and  buildings,  and  strikes.  On  January  22,  a 
mass  rally  held  in  San  Salvador  was  fired  on  by  the  police,  and 
twenty-four  demonstrators  were  killed.  On  February  25,  PDC 
activist  Mario  Zamora  and  others  were  murdered,  apparently 
because  they  had  been  denounced  publicly  as  subversives  by 
now  ex-Major  D'Aubuisson.  Zamora' s  killing  led  directly  to  the 
resignation  of  his  brother,  Ruben,  from  the  government.  Ruben 
Zamora  established  his  own  political  party,  the  Popular  Social  Chris- 
tian Movement  (Movimiento  Popular  Social  Cristiano — MPSC), 
taking  a  number  of  other  disillusioned  Christian  Democrats  with 
him.  Reflecting  the  intense  renewed  debate  within  the  PDC  over 
participation  in  the  government,  Dada  resigned  from  the  junta. 
His  place  was  taken  in  a  third  junta  by  Duarte,  who  finally  de- 
cided to  take  a  direct  role  in  the  process  that  he  had  supported  previ- 
ously from  behind  the  scenes. 

In  an  effort  to  display  its  commitment  to  change  and  to  exert 
its  authority  within  the  country,  the  third  junta  decreed  the  most 
sweeping  reforms  enacted  to  that  time,  expropriating  landholdings 
above  500  hectares  and  nationalizing  commercial  banks  and  sav- 
ings and  loan  institutions.  At  the  same  time,  it  declared  a  state 
of  siege  in  an  apparent  effort  to  back  up  its  reforms  with  a  show 
of  force  against  the  insurrectionist  left.  There  were  some  paradox- 
ical aspects  to  this  policy  of  coupling  reform  with  a  hard  military 
line  toward  the  mass  organizations  and  incipient  guerrilla  forces. 
For  one  thing,  it  strengthened  the  hand  of  military  conservatives 
led  by  Garcia  and  undercut  efforts  by  Majano  and  others  to  reach 
an  accommodation  with  wavering  non-Marxist  labor  and  peasant 


36 


Colonial  church  at  Panchimalco,  south  of  San  Salvador 


groups.  It  also  helped  frustrate  the  implementation  of  the  agrar- 
ian reform  program  by  facilitating  reprisals  by  security  force  per- 
sonnel or  paramilitary  groups  (the  now  "unofficial"  remnants  of 
Orden)  against  the  recipients  of  the  expropriated  acreage,  much 
of  which  was  distributed  on  a  cooperative  basis.  Ultimately,  the 
policies  of  the  third  junta  seemed  to  do  little  to  expand  its  popular 
base  or  enhance  its  legitimacy.  As  was  the  case  with  its  predeces- 
sors, it  also  failed  to  rein  in  political  violence,  official  or  unofficial, 
originating  from  either  side  of  the  political  spectrum. 

That  violence  reached  a  dramatic  apex  in  March  1980  with  the 
murder  of  the  archbishop  of  San  Salvador,  Oscar  Arnulfo  Romero  y 
Galdamez,  on  March  24,  1980.  Romero,  who  had  been  selected 
as  archbishop  in  part  because  of  his  moderate  political  views,  was 
influenced  strongly  by  the  liberation  theology  (see  Glossary)  move- 
ment, and  he  was  appalled  by  the  brutality  employed  with  increas- 
ing frequency  by  government  forces  against  the  populace  and 
particularly  against  the  clergy.  In  his  weekly  radio  homilies,  he  re- 
lated statistics  on  political  assassination  and  excesses  committed 
by  the  military.  He  frequently  urged  soldiers  to  refuse  to  carry  out 
what  he  characterized  as  immoral  orders.  His  high  profile  made 
him  an  important  political  figure,  and  he  had  used  his  influence 
to  urge  the  PDC  to  pull  out  of  the  junta  and  to  argue  against  United 
States  military  aid  to  El  Salvador.  Despite  his  stature  as  the 
country's  Catholic  primate,  he  was  targeted  for  assassination;  all 
indications  are  that  the  killing  was  carried  out  by  the  right  wing. 


37 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Romero's  funeral  on  March  30  produced  a  dramatic  clash  be- 
tween demonstrators  and  security  forces.  The  BPR,  seeking  to 
capitalize  politically  on  the  archbishop's  assassination,  organized 
an  antigovernment  rally  in  San  Salvador's  Plaza  of  the  Cathedral. 
What  had  been  billed  as  a  peaceful  protest,  however,  turned  vio- 
lent. Responsibility  for  the  melee  that  followed  never  has  been  firmly 
placed.  Shooting  erupted,  apparently  from  both  sides,  and  the  police 
opened  fire  on  the  crowd.  The  resultant  news  footage  of  unarmed 
demonstrators  being  gunned  down  on  the  steps  of  the  National 
Cathedral  had  a  strong  impact  abroad,  especially  in  the  United 
States.  El  Salvador  became  almost  overnight  a  focus  of  interna- 
tional debate  and  scrutiny. 

Another  high-impact  incident  was  the  murder  of  four  church- 
women  from  the  United  States  in  December  1980.  The  murders 
themselves  drew  the  ire  of  the  United  States  government  and  public 
and  prompted  the  administration  of  Jimmy  Carter  to  suspend  a 
program  of  limited  military  aid  it  had  granted  to  the  junta  govern- 
ment (United  States  military  aid  had  been  rejected  by  the  Romero 
government  in  1977  when  the  Carter  administration  sought  to  link 
disbursement  to  human  rights  compliance).  The  subsequent  in- 
vestigation frustrated  United  States  officials,  angered  the  Ameri- 
can public,  and  enhanced  the  suspicion  that  high-ranking  officers 
in  the  security  forces  were  orchestrating  a  cover-up  of  the  affair. 

The  violent  incidents  that  drew  foreign  attention  to  the  chaotic 
situation  in  El  Salvador  were  played  out  against  a  backdrop  of  a 
continuing  power  struggle  within  the  military.  While  Garcia  con- 
tinued to  undermine  the  position  of  the  reformist  faction  led  by 
Majano  from  within  the  institution,  other  conservative  commanders 
were  plotting  to  stage  a  coup  to  force  out  the  Majanistas  once  and 
for  all.  What  at  first  appeared  to  be  a  preemptive  strike  against 
these  conspirators  on  May  7,  1980,  later  proved  to  be  the  last  nail 
in  Majano' s  political  coffin.  A  number  of  plotters,  including 
D'Aubuisson,  were  captured  by  Majano  loyalists  during  a  plan- 
ning session;  incriminating  documents  also  were  seized  at  the  site. 
The  Majanistas,  backed  by  the  PDC  members  of  the  junta, 
demanded  that  D'Aubuisson  and  the  others  be  tried  for  treason. 
The  ex-major's  release  on  May  13  and  the  subsequent  failure  of 
efforts  to  bring  him  to  trial  demonstrated  the  power  shift  within 
the  military  and  the  almost  complete  lack  of  PDC  influence  out- 
side the  reformist  faction. 

Majano 's  personal  fall  from  power  began  with  the  announce- 
ment by  Colonel  Garcia  on  May  10  that  Colonel  Gutierrez  was 
to  function  as  sole  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  a 
responsibility  previously  shared  with  Majano.  The  reassignment 


38 


Historical  Setting 


of  Majanista  officers,  usually  to  foreign  diplomatic  positions,  con- 
tinued until  September,  when  almost  all  remaining  reformist  officers 
were  removed  from  their  posts.  Colonel  Majano  himself  survived 
an  assassination  attempt  by  right-wing  gunmen  in  November,  only 
to  be  ousted  from  the  junta  on  December  6  while  on  a  visit  to  Pan- 
ama. Majano  returned  in  a  vain  effort  to  shore  up  his  support 
among  the  ranks.  By  this  time,  however,  he  was  practically  bereft 
of  support  within  the  officer  corps,  the  focus  of  real  power  in  El 
Salvador  at  the  time.  Majano  eventually  fled  into  foreign  exile  rather 
than  risk  further  attempts  on  his  life.  Many  observers  believed  at 
the  time  that  he  took  with  him  the  last  hopes  of  averting  a  major 
civil  conflict  through  effective  social  and  economic  reform. 

The  Civil  Conflict  Begins 

The  early  reaction  of  the  Salvadoran  radical  left  to  the  progres- 
sion of  reformist  junta  governments  was  characteristically  fractious. 
The  PCES  expressed  initial  support  for  the  first  junta.  Other  groups, 
such  as  the  ERP,  condemned  such  impulses  as  collaborationist  and 
renewed  their  call  for  an  insurrection.  Although  some  dialogue 
apparently  took  place  between  Colonel  Majano  and  his  sup- 
porters and  some  members  of  the  radical  left,  the  erosion  of 
Majano's  position  within  the  military  and  the  inability  of  the  junta 
governments  to  stem  the  tide  of  right-wing  violence,  not  to  men- 
tion a  certain  suspicion  among  the  Majanistas  themselves  of  the 
leftists'  ultimate  goals,  worked  against  any  effort  to  incorporate 
them  into  the  governmental  structure.  Some  observers  have  noted 
this  failure  to  bring  the  left  into  the  political  process  as  a  major 
shortcoming  of  the  reformist  juntas.  It  appears,  however,  that  the 
political  will  to  do  so  was  lacking  on  both  sides.  This  was  particu- 
larly true  of  the  Marxist  guerrilla  groups  that  had  expanded  their 
membership  and  their  aspirations  since  their  establishment  as  urban 
terrorist  cells  in  the  mid-1970s. 

Foreign  influences  on  these  Salvadoran  guerrilla  groups  served 
in  large  part  to  convince  their  leadership  of  the  need  to  sublimate 
old  ideological  quarrels  in  favor  of  a  coordinated  and  cooperative 
effort  to  arouse  the  Salvadoran  masses.  The  example  of  the 
Nicaraguan  revolution  served  as  both  an  inspiration  and  a  loose 
blueprint  for  the  Salvadorans.  Nicaragua  demonstrated  the  impor- 
tance of  incorporating  as  many  sectors  of  society  as  possible  into 
a  revolutionary  movement  while  still  ensuring  the  predominance 
of  a  Marxist-Leninist  "vanguard"  group  within  the  coalition.  In 
Nicaragua  the  vanguard  role  was  played  by  the  FSLN,  a  group 
that  had  represented  singlehandedly  the  pro-Cuban  insurrection- 
ist left  in  that  country  since  the  early  1960s.  In  El  Salvador,  the 


39 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

situation  was  more  complicated.  Clearly,  several  ideologically 
diverse  (Maoist,  pro-Soviet,  and  pro-Cuban)  guerrilla  groups  could 
not  fulfill  simultaneously  the  role  of  revolutionary  vanguard. 
Salvadorans  recognized  a  need  for  unity  that  was  not  achieved  until 
Cuba's  Fidel  Castro  took  a  direct  hand  in  the  matter.  The  negotiat- 
ing process  began  in  Havana  in  December  1979,  some  two  months 
after  the  reformist  coup  in  El  Salvador,  and  was  concluded  by  May 
1980,  when  the  major  guerrilla  groups  announced  their  unity  under 
the  banner  of  the  Unified  Revolutionary  Directorate  (Direccion 
Revolucionaria  Unificada — DRU).  Despite  some  continued  infight- 
ing, the  DRU  succeeded  in  coordinating  the  groups'  efforts  to 
organize  and  equip  their  forces. 

While  the  military  strategy  of  the  left  was  proceeding  along  one 
path,  some  opposition  parties  and  the  mass  organizations  were  fol- 
lowing a  similar  and  eventually  convergent  course.  On  April  1, 
1980,  the  Revolutionary  Democratic  Front  (Frente  Democratico 
Revolucionario — FDR)  was  established  by  the  CRM,  the  umbrella 
group  of  the  mass  organizations.  It  brought  together  all  five  of  the 
mass  organizations  associated  with  the  DRU  guerrilla  groups  as 
well  as  Ungo's  MNR,  Zamora's  MPSC,  another  party  known  as 
the  Popular  Liberation  Movement  (Movimiento  de  Liberacion 
Popular — MLP),  forty-nine  labor  unions,  and  several  student 
groups.  FDR  political  leaders  such  as  Ungo  and  Zamora  began 
to  travel  abroad,  where  they  found  political  and  moral  support, 
particularly  in  Mexico  and  among  the  social  democratic  parties  of 
Western  Europe.  Meanwhile,  the  mass  organizations  began  a  cam- 
paign of  general  strikes  in  an  effort  to  pave  the  way  for  a  full  or 
partial  leftist  assumption  of  power,  either  through  insurrection  or 
through  negotiations. 

In  November  1980,  the  FDR  was  struck  a  traumatic  blow  when 
one  of  its  leaders,  Enrique  Alvarez,  was  killed  along  with  five  other 
members  of  the  front  by  a  right-wing  death  squad.  This  incident 
underscored  the  danger  of  the  FDR's  strategy  of  open  organiza- 
tion and  opposition  and  contributed  to  its  formal  unification  with 
the  DRU.  Although  the  leadership  of  the  mass  organizations  had 
long  been  cooperating  with  the  guerrilla  groups,  the  politicians  of 
the  MNR  and  MPSC  had  sought  to  steer  a  slightly  more  indepen- 
dent path.  After  the  Alvarez  murder,  however,  they  felt  compelled 
to  make  common  cause  with  the  DRU;  they  took  this  action  not 
only  for  their  own  protection  but  also  because  they  believed  that 
the  prevailing  level  of  violence  in  the  country  legitimized  a  violent 
response.  By  1981  the  FDR  had  been  united  formally  with  the 
Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation  Front  (Frente  Farabundo 
Marti  de  Liberacion  Nacional — FMLN),  the  successor  organization 


40 


Historical  Setting 


to  the  DRU.  The  first  public  announcement  of  the  FMLN-FDR 
was  made  in  Mexico  City  in  January  1981,  some  four  days  after 
the  FMLN  guerrillas  initiated  an  operation  that  they  dubbed, 
prematurely  and  inaccurately,  the  "final  offensive." 

The  guerrillas  offensive  began  on  January  10,  1981.  From  the 
perspective  of  the  FMLN,  its  timing  proved  to  be  premature  in 
a  number  of  respects.  The  guerrillas'  logistics  network  was  not  pre- 
pared to  support  an  operation  on  an  almost  countrywide  level;  the 
rebels  generally  were  not  well  armed  and  clearly  were  not  well 
trained.  The  Salvadoran  armed  forces,  although  initially  taken  by 
surprise,  were  sufficiently  cohesive  to  rally  and  beat  back  the  guer- 
rilla attacks.  The  FMLN  hoped  to  establish  operational  control  over 
Morazan  Department  and  to  declare  it  a  '  'liberated  territory. ' '  This 
major  objective  never  was  achieved.  On  a  basic  level,  the  final  offen- 
sive demonstrated  the  limited  extent  of  the  guerrillas'  support 
among  the  Salvadoran  population.  The  anticipated  countrywide 
insurrection  on  which  the  FMLN  had  staked  so  much  of  its  hopes 
for  victory  never  materialized. 

The  final  offensive  was  not  a  total  loss  for  the  FMLN,  however. 
It  retained  military  strongholds,  especially  in  Chalatenango  Depart- 
ment, where  its  forces  settled  in  for  a  protracted  guerrilla  conflict. 
The  offensive  focused  further  international  attention  on  El  Salvador 
and  established  the  FMLN-FDR  as  a  formidable  force  both  polit- 
ically and  militarily;  in  August  1981,  the  governments  of  France 
and  Mexico  recognized  the  front  as  a  "representative  political  force" 
and  called  for  a  negotiated  settlement  between  the  rebels  and  the 
government.  Seeking  to  capitalize  on  such  support,  FDR  represen- 
tatives carried  on  a  "political  offensive"  abroad  while  the  FMLN 
forces  dug  in,  resupplied,  and  continued  their  organizational  and 
operational  efforts  in  the  field  (see  Left-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5). 

On  the  down  side  for  the  guerrillas,  however,  the  armed  forces 
continued  to  repulse  their  assaults  with  relative  ease,  even  without 
the  benefit  of  United  States  military  aid.  The  timing  of  the  final 
offensive  had  in  large  part  reflected  the  desire  of  the  FMLN  to  take 
power  before  the  inauguration  of  United  States  president  Ronald 
Reagan.  Although  it  failed  militarily,  the  offensive  still  drew  con- 
siderable attention  from  observers  and  policymakers  in  Washington. 

The  United  States  Takes  a  Hand 

The  Carter  administration  had  lost  considerable  leverage  in  El 
Salvador  when  the  Romero  government  renounced  United  States 
aid  in  1977.  The  United  States  therefore  welcomed  the  October 
1979  coup  and  backed  up  its  approval  with  an  economic  aid  package 
that  by  1980  had  become  the  largest  among  Western  Hemisphere 


41 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

recipients.  A  small  amount  of  military  aid  also  was  provided.  United 
States  advisers  contributed  to  the  third  junta's  agrarian  reform  pro- 
gram, particularly  Phase  III  of  the  reform,  the  so-called  Land  to 
the  Tiller  decree  of  April  28,  1980,  granting  title  to  smallholders. 
Phase  II,  expropriating  holdings  between  100  and  500  hectares, 
was  decreed  in  March  1980,  but  implementation  was  postponed. 
The  government  cited  lack  of  administrative  and  financial  resources 
for  its  inaction;  many  observers  believed  that  political  considera- 
tions were  equally  influential. 

United  States  policy  and  influence  in  El  Salvador,  however,  was 
fitful  and  inconsistent  from  1979  through  1981.  It  was  driven  by 
two  conflicting  motivations  in  the  complex  and  shifting  political 
prism  of  El  Salvador.  The  first  motivation  was  the  prevention  of 
a  leftist  takeover.  Both  economic  and  military  aid  for  the  junta 
governments  seemed  to  be  intended  to  promote  a  centrist  alterna- 
tive to  either  a  Marxist-led  revolution  or  a  conservative  military 
regime.  The  assumption  of  power  by  the  FSLN  in  Nicaragua  in- 
creased the  pressure  on  the  United  States  to  prevent  a  similar  result 
in  El  Salvador;  this  pressure  grew  by  1981  as  the  Sandinistas  con- 
solidated their  dominant  role  in  the  Nicaraguan  government. 

The  second  motivation  was  human  rights.  The  Carter  admin- 
istration had  established  the  promotion  of  human  rights  as  a 
cornerstone  of  its  foreign  policy,  particularly  in  Latin  America. 
Like  many  Salvadorans,  United  States  officials  were  frustrated  by 
the  inability  of  the  junta  governments  to  contain  political  violence. 
Nevertheless,  Carter's  policy  was  sufficiently  flexible  to  allow  in- 
creased aid  levels  despite  a  generalized  upswing  in  human  rights 
violations  in  El  Salvador,  as  long  as  the  government  there  appeared 
to  be  making  good  faith  efforts  at  reform.  It  was  not  merely  the 
general  level  of  violence,  however,  but  the  specific  murders  of 
United  States  citizens  that  most  affected  dealings  with  El  Salvador. 
As  previously  mentioned,  the  December  1980  murder  of  the  four 
churchwomen  produced  a  complete  cutoff  of  aid  pending  an  in- 
vestigation of  the  case.  On  January  4,  1981,  two  American  land 
reform  advisers  from  the  American  Institute  for  Free  Labor  De- 
velopment (AIFLD)  were  gunned  down  along  with  a  Salvadoran 
in  the  Sheraton  Hotel  in  San  Salvador.  This  action  alarmed  not 
only  the  White  House  but  also  the  United  States  Congress,  and 
it  added  fuel  to  the  effort  to  disburse  aid  based  on  improvements 
in  the  Salvadoran  human  rights  situation. 

The  launching  of  the  "final  offensive"  lent  a  new  urgency  to 
Washington's  approach.  On  January  14,  1981,  four  days  after  the 
offensive  began,  Carter  announced  the  approval  of  US$5  million 
in  "nonlethal"  military  aid;  an  additional  US$5  million  was 


42 


Historical  Setting 


authorized  four  days  later.  The  low  level  of  the  aid  and  the  im- 
pediments to  its  rapid  disbursement  meant  that  it  had  little  direct 
impact  on  the  Salvadoran  armed  forces'  response  to  the  guerrilla 
offensive;  the  renewal  of  military  aid,  however,  established  a  trend 
that  President  Reagan  would  build  on  when  he  assumed  office  on 
January  20,  1981. 

The  Reagan  administration  initially  appeared  to  stress  the  need 
to  shore  up  El  Salvador  as  a  barrier  against  communist  expansion 
in  Central  America.  The  United  States  Department  of  State  is- 
sued a  special  report  on  February  23,  1981,  entitled  Communist  In- 
terference in  El  Salvador,  which  emphasized  Nicaraguan,  Cuban,  and 
Soviet  support  for  the  FMLN.  The  report  was  widely  criticized 
in  the  American  media  and  the  United  States  Congress.  Neverthe- 
less, the  administration  succeeded  in  increasing  substantially  the 
levels  of  United  States  military  and  economic  aid  to  El  Salvador, 
first  by  executive  order,  then  by  legislative  appropriation.  Although 
Reagan  downplayed  the  importance  of  human  rights  considera- 
tions, Congress  voted  in  January  1982  to  require  certification  by 
the  executive  every  six  months  of  Salvadoran  progress  in  such  areas 
as  the  curbing  of  abuses  by  the  armed  forces,  the  implementation 
of  economic  and  political  reforms  (particularly  agrarian  reform), 
and  the  demonstration  of  a  commitment  to  hold  free  elections  with 
the  participation  of  all  political  factions  (all  those  that  would 
renounce  further  military  or  paramilitary  activity).  The  adminis- 
tration accepted  the  certification  requirement,  albeit  reluctantly, 
and  proceeded  with  a  policy  that  emphasized  economic  maintenance 
in  the  face  of  guerrilla  attacks  on  the  country's  infrastructure,  mili- 
tary buildup  to  contain  the  insurgency,  and  low-key  efforts  in  the 
human  rights  area. 

The  "Democratic  Process" 

As  the  FMLN  guerrillas  settled  in  for  a  protracted  conflict  marked 
by  economic  sabotage,  the  seizure  of  lightly  defended  towns  and 
other  targets,  and  the  establishment  of  rural  zones  of  influence, 
events  in  El  Salvador  increasingly  began  to  be  driven  by  decisions 
made  in  Washington.  One  area  in  which  a  consensus  was  reached 
among  the  Reagan  administration,  Congress,  and  Salvadoran 
moderates  (mainly  the  PDC)  was  the  desirability  of  establishing 
a  legitimate  government  through  a  process  of  free  elections.  The 
Salvadoran  right  reluctantly  joined  this  process  after  it  became  clear 
that  the  administration  did  not  favor  a  conservative  military  coup. 
Duarte,  who  had  been  named  provisional  president  on  December 
13,  1980,  under  a  fourth  junta  government,  announced  on  Sep- 
tember 15,  1981,  that  elections  for  a  Constituent  Assembly  would 


43 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

be  held  in  March  1982.  The  Constituent  Assembly  would  draft 
a  constitution  that  would  lay  the  groundwork  for  a  presidential  elec- 
tion. It  also  was  hoped  that  the  assembly  would  incorporate  all  or 
most  of  the  reforms  decreed  by  the  junta  governments  into  the  new 
document. 

The  Constituent  Assembly  elections  were  participated  in  by  six 
parties,  but  only  three  were  of  major  significance.  Two  of  these 
were  familiar  actors  in  El  Salvador,  the  PDC  and  PCN.  The  third 
was  a  new  party — the  Nationalist  Republican  Alliance  (Alianza 
Republicana  Nacionalista — Arena) — led  by  D'Aubuisson,  which 
represented  the  interests  of  the  right.  The  FDR  refused  to  partici- 
pate in  the  elections,  citing  fears  for  the  safety  of  possible  candi- 
dates, the  lack  of  proper  political  conditions,  and  the  inordinate 
influence  of  the  United  States.  It  maintained  that  negotiations  be- 
tween the  FMLN-FDR  and  the  government  should  precede  the 
holding  of  elections. 

In  the  three-way  contest  that  developed,  the  PDC  was  at  a  dis- 
advantage in  several  respects.  Its  grass-roots  organization  had  suf- 
fered from  inactivity  and  the  crippling  impact  of  death  squad 
assassinations.  Ideologically,  its  appeal  among  the  conservative 
rural  population  was  limited  in  comparison  to  that  of  the  center- 
right  PCN  and  the  rightist  Arena,  which  also  benefited  from 
D'Aubuisson 's  image  as  a  strong,  virile  man  of  action,  or  caudillo. 
The  PDC  also  lacked  the  funds  available  to  the  other  parties,  es- 
pecially Arena. 

Despite  a  clear  preference  for  Duarte  and  the  PDC  in  Washing- 
ton, the  Christian  Democrats  captured  only  a  plurality  (35.5  per- 
cent, equating  to  twenty-four  seats)  of  the  balloting  for  the 
sixty-member  Constituent  Assembly.  Although  this  was  the  larg- 
est total  of  any  single  party,  it  left  the  PDC  facing  a  conservative 
majority  in  that  body  as  Arena  garnered  nineteen  seats  and  25.8 
percent  of  the  vote  and  the  PCN  won  fourteen  seats  with  its  16.8 
percent  of  the  total  ballots.  This  result  took  policymakers  in 
Washington  somewhat  by  surprise.  Advocates  of  reform  suddenly 
were  faced  with  the  prospect  of  a  new  constitution  drafted  by  a 
conservative,  and  presumably  antireform,  Constituent  Assembly. 
An  even  more  worrisome  eventuality  for  the  United  States  was  the 
possible  election  of  D'Aubuisson  as  the  country's  provisional  presi- 
dent. D'Aubuisson  had  been  elected  speaker  of  the  Constituent 
Assembly,  and  many  observers  expected  him  to  win  the  provisional 
presidency  as  well.  The  fact  that  he  was  passed  over  for  this  post 
in  favor  of  the  moderate  independent  Alvaro  Magana  Borja  report- 
edly reflected  pressure  both  from  the  United  States  government, 
which  did  not  wish  to  be  put  in  the  position  of  requesting  increased 


44 


Historical  Setting 


levels  of  aid  for  a  D'Aubuisson-led  government,  and  the  Salva- 
doran  armed  forces,  which  shared  the  Reagan  administration's  in- 
terest in  raising  the  level  of  military  aid. 

Although  it  had  initiated  a  democratic  process  of  sorts,  El  Sal- 
vador was  still  volatile  as  1983  approached.  The  FMLN-FDR  had 
strengthened  itself  militarily  and  continued  to  press  for  a  nego- 
tiated "power-sharing"  agreement  that  would  grant  it  a  role  in 
a  revamped  governmental  structure.  After  their  successful  response 
to  the  poorly  coordinated  "final  offensive,"  the  armed  forces  bogged 
down  and  seemed  unwilling  or  unable  to  respond  effectively  to  the 
guerrilla  threat.  Political  violence  continued  at  high  levels.  The  in- 
creasing involvement  of  the  United  States  prompted  comparisons 
with  the  early  days  of  the  Vietnam  conflict.  The  ambiguity  of  the 
Salvadoran  situation  from  the  American  perspective  was  not  im- 
proved by  the  conservative  victory  in  the  1982  elections.  As  seen 
from  both  San  Salvador  and  Washington,  the  future  for  El  Sal- 
vador appeared  uncertain  at  best  (see  Relations  with  the  United 
States,  ch.  4). 

Comprehensive  studies  of  Salvadoran  history  are  few.  Alastair 
White's  El  Salvador,  published  in  1973  and  reissued  in  1982,  remains 
the  major  general  work  on  the  subject.  Other  authors  have  produced 
useful  volumes  of  more  limited  scope.  Thomas  P.  Anderson's 
Matanza:  El  Salvador's  Communist  Revolt  of  1932  is  a  detailed  account 
of  a  critical  event.  Twentieth-century  political  history  is  addressed 
effectively  in  Stephen  Webre's  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  and  the  Christian 
Democratic  Party  in  Salvadoran  Politics,  1960-1972.  El  Salvador's 
political  prominence  after  1979  drew  increased  attention  to  the  sub- 
ject; the  results,  however,  are  mixed.  The  majority  of  recent  works 
are  excessively  polemicized,  mainly  as  a  result  of  the  polarized 
atmosphere  prevailing  in  the  country  throughout  the  early  1980s. 
One  exception  is  Enrique  A.  Baloyra's  El  Salvador  in  Transition,  an 
illuminating  study  of  Salvadoran  politics  after  1948.  Duarte 's 
autobiography,  aptly  titled  Duarte:  My  Story,  is  interesting  in  an  anec- 
dotal sense  but  of  relatively  limited  value  to  the  historian.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


45 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Girl  selling  fruit 


IN  THE  LATE  1980s,  El  Salvador  was  a  country  with  major  social, 
economic,  and  political  problems  that  had  reached  crisis  propor- 
tions on  a  national  level.  These  problems  reflected  a  basic  pattern 
of  social,  economic,  and  political  inequality  that  has  persisted  since 
the  colonial  era  and  grown  in  intensity  during  the  twentieth  century. 

El  Salvador  is  the  smallest  country  in  Central  America  in  land 
area;  it  is  also  the  most  densely  populated.  These  conditions  have 
combined  with  marked  imbalances  in  income  distribution  to  cre- 
ate sharp  contrasts  in  standards  of  living  and  general  quality  of 
life  between  the  powerful  and  wealthy  elite  and  the  poverty-stricken 
masses.  Limited  productive  territory,  continuing  high  rates  of  popu- 
lation growth,  and  restricted  ownership  of  land  have  led  to  a  high 
level  of  unemployment  and  underemployment  among  the  still 
largely  rural  and  agrarian  population.  This  population  has  lost  much 
of  its  subsistence  land  base  and  therefore  has  had  to  rely  for  sur- 
vival on  participation  in  the  cash  economy,  to  which,  however,  most 
of  its  members  were  distinctly  marginal. 

The  socioeconomic  plight  of  the  rural  population,  largely  ignored 
by  military-dominated  governments,  contributed  to  the  develop- 
ment of  an  armed  insurgent  movement  by  the  early  1980s.  Pres- 
sure for  economic  reforms  also  played  a  part  in  the  dialogue  over 
political  change  as  El  Salvador's  rigidly  controlled  oligarchic  sys- 
tem enforced  by  the  military  confronted  pressures  for  a  more  open 
form  of  participatory  democracy.  Meanwhile,  the  turmoil  and  de- 
struction caused  by  civil  conflict  exacerbated  the  problems  of  an 
already  seriously  stressed  population. 

Geography 

El  Salvador,  the  smallest  Spanish-speaking  nation  in  the  Western 
Hemisphere,  is  located  on  the  western  side  of  the  Central  Ameri- 
can isthmus.  With  an  area  of  21 ,041  square  kilometers,  the  country 
is  only  slightly  larger  than  Massachusetts.  It  is  roughly  rectangular 
in  shape  with  515  kilometers  of  land  boundaries  and  307  kilometers 
of  coastline  on  the  Pacific  Ocean.  El  Salvador  is  bounded  by 
Guatemala  to  the  west  and  Honduras  to  the  north  and  east,  and 
it  is  separated  from  Nicaragua  on  the  southeast  by  the  Golfo  de 
Fonseca  (see  fig.  1;  fig.  2). 

Geology 

El  Salvador,  along  with  the  rest  of  Middle  America  (a  region 
comprising  mainly  Mexico  and  Central  America),  is  one  of  the  most 


49 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

seismologically  active  regions  on  earth,  situated  atop  three  of  the 
large  tectonic  plates  that  constitute  the  earth's  surface.  The  mo- 
tion of  these  plates  causes  the  area's  earthquake  and  volcanic 
activity. 

Most  of  Central  America  and  the  Caribbean  Basin  rests  on  the 
relatively  motionless  Caribbean  Plate.  The  Pacific  Ocean  floor, 
however,  is  being  carried  northeast  by  the  underlying  motion  of 
the  Cocos  Plate.  Ocean  floor  material  is  relatively  dense;  when  it 
strikes  the  lighter  granite  rocks  of  Central  America,  the  ocean  floor 
is  forced  down  under  the  land  mass,  creating  the  deep  Middle 
America  Trench  that  lies  off  the  coast  of  El  Salvador.  The  sub- 
duction  of  the  Cocos  Plate  accounts  for  the  frequency  of  earthquakes 
near  the  coast.  As  the  rocks  constituting  the  ocean  floor  are  forced 
down,  they  melt,  and  the  molten  material  pours  up  through  weak- 
nesses in  the  surface  rock,  producing  volcanoes  and  geysers. 

North  of  El  Salvador,  Mexico  and  most  of  Guatemala  are  rid- 
ing on  the  westward-moving  North  American  Plate  that  butts 
against  the  northern  edge  of  the  stationary  Caribbean  Plate  in 
southern  Guatemala.  The  grinding  action  of  these  two  plates  cre- 
ates a  fault,  similar  to  the  San  Andreas  in  California,  that  runs 
the  length  of  the  valley  of  the  Rio  Motagua  in  Guatemala.  Mo- 
tion along  this  fault  is  the  source  of  earthquakes  in  northernmost 
El  Salvador. 

El  Salvador  has  a  long  history  of  destructive  earthquakes  and 
volcanic  eruptions.  San  Salvador  was  destroyed  in  1756  and  1854, 
and  it  suffered  heavy  damage  in  the  1919,  1982,  and  1986  tremors. 
The  country  has  over  twenty  volcanoes,  although  only  two,  San 
Miguel  and  Izalco,  have  been  active  in  recent  years.  Violent  erup- 
tions are  rare.  From  the  early  nineteenth  century  to  the  mid-1950s, 
Izalco  erupted  with  a  regularity  that  earned  it  the  name  "Light- 
house of  the  Pacific. ' '  Its  brilliant  flares  were  clearly  visible  for  great 
distances  at  sea,  and  at  night  its  glowing  lava  turned  it  into  a  bril- 
liant luminous  cone. 

Physical  Features 

Two  parallel  mountain  ranges  cross  El  Salvador  east  to  west  with 
a  central  plateau  between  them  and  a  narrow  coastal  plain  hug- 
ging the  Pacific  (see  fig.  3).  These  physical  features  divide  the  coun- 
try into  two  physiographic  regions.  The  mountain  ranges  and 
central  plateau  covering  85  percent  of  the  land  comprise  the  in- 
terior highlands.  The  remaining  coastal  plains  are  referred  to  as 
the  Pacific  lowlands. 

The  northern  range  of  mountains,  the  Sierra  Madre,  forms  a 
continuous  chain  along  the  border  with  Honduras.  Elevations  in 


50 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


this  region  range  from  1,600  to  2,200  meters.  The  area  was  once 
heavily  forested,  but  overexploitation  led  to  extensive  erosion,  and 
it  has  become  semibarren.  As  a  result,  it  is  the  country's  most 
sparsely  populated  zone,  with  little  farming  or  other  development. 

The  southern  range  of  mountains  is  actually  a  discontinuous 
chain  of  more  than  twenty  volcanoes,  clustered  into  five  groups. 
The  westernmost  group,  near  the  Guatemalan  border,  contains 
Izalco  and  Santa  Ana,  which  at  2,365  meters  is  the  highest  point 
in  El  Salvador.  Between  the  cones  lie  alluvial  basins  and  rolling 
hills  eroded  from  ash  deposits.  The  volcanic  soil  is  rich,  and  much 
of  El  Salvador's  coffee  is  planted  on  these  slopes. 

The  central  plateau  constitutes  only  25  percent  of  the  land  area 
but  contains  the  heaviest  concentration  of  population  and  the  coun- 
try's  largest  cities.  This  plain  is  about  50  kilometers  wide  and  has 
an  average  elevation  of  600  meters.  Terrain  here  is  rolling,  with 
occasional  escarpments,  lava  fields,  and  geysers. 

A  narrow  plain  extends  from  the  coastal  volcanic  range  to  the 
Pacific  Ocean.  This  region  has  a  width  ranging  from  one  to  thirty- 
two  kilometers  with  the  widest  section  in  the  east,  adjacent  to  the 
Golfo  de  Fonseca.  Near  La  Libertad,  however,  the  mountains  pinch 
the  lowlands  out;  the  slopes  of  adjacent  volcanoes  come  down  di- 
rectly to  the  sea.  Surfaces  in  the  Pacific  lowlands  are  generally  flat 
or  gently  rolling  and  result  from  alluvial  deposits  from  nearby  slopes. 

El  Salvador  has  over  300  rivers,  the  most  important  of  which 
is  the  Rio  Lempa.  Originating  in  Guatemala,  the  Rio  Lempa  cuts 
across  the  northern  range  of  mountains,  flows  along  much  of  the 
central  plateau,  and  finally  cuts  through  the  southern  volcanic  range 
to  empty  into  the  Pacific.  It  is  El  Salvador's  only  navigable  river, 
and  it  and  its  tributaries  drain  about  half  the  country.  Other  rivers 
are  generally  short  and  drain  the  Pacific  lowlands  or  flow  from  the 
central  plateau  through  gaps  in  the  southern  mountain  range  to 
the  Pacific. 

Numerous  lakes  of  volcanic  origin  are  found  in  the  interior  high- 
lands; many  of  these  lakes  are  surrounded  by  mountains  and  have 
high,  steep  banks.  The  largest  lake,  the  Lago  de  Ilopango,  lies  just 
to  the  east  of  the  capital.  Other  large  lakes  include  the  Lago  de 
Coatepeque  in  the  west  and  the  Lago  de  Giiija  on  the  Guatema- 
lan border.  The  Cerron  Grande  Dam  on  the  Rio  Lempa  has  created 
a  large  reservoir,  the  Embalse  Cerron  Grande,  in  northern  El 
Salvador. 

Climate 

El  Salvador  has  a  tropical  climate  with  pronounced  wet  and  dry 
seasons.  Temperatures  vary  primarily  with  elevation  and  show  little 


51 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


seasonal  change.  The  Pacific  lowlands  are  uniformly  hot;  the  cen- 
tral plateau  and  mountain  areas  are  more  moderate. 

The  rainy  season,  known  locally  as  invierno,  or  winter,  extends 
from  May  to  October.  Almost  all  the  annual  rainfall  occurs  dur- 
ing this  time,  and  yearly  totals,  particularly  on  southern-facing 
mountain  slopes,  can  be  as  high  as  200  centimeters.  Protected  areas 
and  the  central  plateau  receive  lesser,  although  still  significant, 
amounts.  Rainfall  during  this  season  generally  comes  from  low  pres- 
sure over  the  Pacific  and  usually  falls  in  heavy  afternoon  thunder- 
storms. Although  hurricanes  occasionally  form  in  the  Pacific,  they 
seldom  affect  El  Salvador. 

From  November  through  April,  the  northeast  trade  winds  con- 
trol weather  patterns.  During  these  months,  air  flowing  from  the 
Caribbean  has  had  most  of  the  precipitation  wrung  out  of  it  pass- 
ing over  the  mountains  in  Honduras.  By  the  time  this  air  reaches 
El  Salvador,  it  is  dry,  hot,  and  hazy.  This  season  is  known  locally 
as  verano,  or  summer. 

Temperatures  vary  little  with  season;  elevation  is  the  primary 
determinant.  The  Pacific  lowlands  are  the  hottest  region,  with 
annual  averages  ranging  from  25°C  to  29°C.  San  Salvador  is  repre- 
sentative of  the  central  plateau,  with  an  annual  average  tempera- 
ture of  23°C  and  absolute  high  and  low  readings  of  38°C  and  7°C, 
respectively.  Mountain  areas  are  the  coolest,  with  annual  averages 
from  12°C  to  23 °C  and  minimum  temperatures  sometimes 
approaching  freezing. 

Population 

Although  historically  El  Salvador  has  been  home  to  a  culturally 
diverse  mix  of  peoples  including  blacks,  Indians,  Hispanics,  and 
North  Europeans,  by  the  1980s  the  population  of  the  country  was 
essentially  homogeneous  in  terms  of  ethnicity  and  basic  cultural 
identity.  Virtually  all  Salvadorans  spoke  Spanish,  the  official  lan- 
guage, as  their  mother  tongue,  and  the  vast  majority  could  be 
characterized  as  mestizos  (or  ladinos,  a  term  more  commonly  used 
in  Central  America),  meaning  persons  of  mixed  biological  ances- 
try who  follow  a  wide  variety  of  indigenous  and  Hispanic  customs 
and  habits  that  over  the  centuries  have  come  to  constitute  Spanish- 
American  cultural  patterns.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  ethnic  composi- 
tion of  the  population  was  estimated  as  89  percent  mestizo,  10 
percent  Indian,  and  1  percent  white. 

In  contrast  to  most  other  Central  American  countries,  El  Sal- 
vador no  longer  possessed  an  ethnically  or  linguistically  distinct 
Indian  population,  although  persons  of  Indian  racial  or  cultural 
heritage  still  lived  in  the  western  departments  of  the  country  (see 


53 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Indians,  this  ch.).  During  the  twentieth  century,  this  population 
was  rapidly  assimilated  into  the  dominant  Hispanic  culture.  Simi- 
larly, there  was  no  ethnically  or  culturally  distinct  black  population. 

In  spite  of  ethnic  homogeneity,  however,  Salvadoran  society  in 
the  1980s  exhibited  strong  contrasts  in  life-style  based  on  extremes 
of  great  wealth  and  abject  poverty.  These  contrasting  life-styles, 
in  turn,  created  serious  rifts  in  Salvadoran  society  that  effectively 
divided  the  population  into  distinctive  subcultural  groups. 

Demographic  Trends 

The  population  of  El  Salvador  at  the  time  of  the  national  census 
in  1971  was  3,549,000.  According  to  estimates,  population  growth 
averaged  3.4  percent  annually  in  the  1970s  and  2.4  percent  in  the 
1980s.  One  United  States  government  estimate  claimed  a  1988 
population  figure  of  5,389,000  (estimates  vary).  Although  El  Sal- 
vador's high  rate  of  population  growth  was  similar  to  that  of  other 
Central  American  countries,  the  social  and  political  effects  of  this 
population  increase  were  aggravated  by  the  very  limited  national 
territory  available  for  the  population. 

Consequently,  El  Salvador  also  consistendy  had  very  high  popu- 
lation density.  From  a  figure  of  170  persons  per  square  kilometer 
in  1970,  density  has  been  projected  to  rise  to  about  230  persons 
per  square  kilometer  in  1980  and  to  an  extremely  high  420  per- 
sons by  2000.  El  Salvador  is  the  most  crowded  country  of  Central 
America  (indeed,  of  all  Latin  America),  and  that  condition  will 
continue  into  the  foreseeable  future.  This  demographic  situation 
has  further  exacerbated  the  problems  associated  with  the  inequal- 
ity of  national  resource  distribution.  But  the  consequences  of  these 
demographic  pressures  have  not  been  limited  to  El  Salvador.  Histor- 
ically, high  Salvadoran  population  density  has  contributed  to  ten- 
sions with  neighboring  Honduras,  as  land-poor  Salvadorans 
emigrated  to  less  densely  populated  Honduras  and  established  them- 
selves as  squatters  on  unused  or  underused  land.  This  phenome- 
non was  a  major  cause  of  the  1969  war  between  El  Salvador  and 
Honduras  (see  The  1969  War  with  Honduras,  ch.  1). 

The  distribution  of  population  in  El  Salvador  also  remained  un- 
even. The  least  densely  populated  areas  were  the  northern  depart- 
ments of  Chalatenango,  Morazan,  and  Cabanas,  encompassing 
the  marginal  land  and  rugged  terrain  of  the  descending  slopes  of 
mountain  ranges  that  peak  in  Honduras  (see  Physical  Features, 
this  ch.).  In  contrast,  the  areas  of  greatest  settlement  were  in  the 
fertile  central  zone,  where  there  was  a  large  rural  population,  and 
in  the  major  urban  areas,  including  the  San  Salvador  metropolitan 


54 


Izalco  Volcano,  Sonsonate  Department 

area  (which  had  828  persons  per  square  kilometer  in  1971),  Santa 
Ana,  and  San  Miguel. 

The  department  of  San  Salvador  was  the  most  populous  of  El 
Salvador's  fourteen  departments,  with  a  population  density  in  the 
mid-1970s  of  825  persons  per  square  kilometer.  The  second  most 
densely  populated  department  at  that  time  was  neighboring  Cus- 
catlan,  with  206  persons  per  square  kilometer.  All  other  depart- 
ments had  fewer  than  200  persons  per  square  kilometer. 

Observers  believed  that  significant  population  growth  would  con- 
tinue in  the  capital,  San  Salvador,  where  the  net  increase  in  popu- 
lation for  the  decade  of  the  1960s  (202,000  persons)  and  of  the  1970s 
(327,000)  almost  equaled  and  exceeded,  respectively,  the  city's  total 
population  in  1950  (213,000).  The  population  of  San  Salvador  in 
1980  was  estimated  to  be  858,000,  a  figure  that  represented  30  per- 
cent of  the  total  national  population.  The  capital  accounted  for  ap- 
proximately 60  percent  of  the  total  urban  population  during 
1950-80;  its  growth  rates  ranged  between  4.4  percent  and  5  per- 
cent during  that  period.  Projections  placed  the  population  of  the 
capital  at  approximately  1  million  by  1 990  and  1 . 5  million  by  the 
end  of  the  century. 

The  number  of  small  urban  centers  under  50,000  inhabitants 
in  El  Salvador  increased  from  five  in  1950  to  eighteen  by  1980. 
Inhabitants  of  these  centers  comprised  24  percent  of  the  total  urban 
population  in  1980.  San  Miguel  and  Santa  Ana,  the  two  secondary 


55 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

cities  of  the  country,  accounted  for  an  estimated  15  percent  of  the 
total  urban  population  in  1980  and  had  an  estimated  annual  growth 
rate  of  3  percent  (Santa  Ana)  and  4  percent  (San  Miguel)  for  the 
decades  between  1950  and  1980.  Nevertheless,  these  two  cities  were 
unable  to  compete  with  San  Salvador  in  growth  and  prosperity. 
San  Salvador's  urbanized  area  was  5.7  times  as  large  as  that  of 
Santa  Ana,  the  next  largest  city,  by  the  mid-1970s. 

The  urban  population  has  grown  approximately  50  percent  in 
each  decade  from  1950  to  1980  and  was  projected  to  increase  3.9 
percent  annually  from  1971  to  2000,  as  compared  with  an  approx- 
imate rural  population  increase  of  only  30  percent  per  decade  and 
a  projected  annual  rate  of  increase  of  2.8  percent  from  1971  to  2000. 
But  the  rural  population  has  been  and  will  continue  to  be  signifi- 
cantly larger  than  the  urban  in  absolute  numbers.  The  net  rural 
population  in  1971  was  over  2.6  million,  but  it  was  projected  to 
reach  an  estimated  6  million  persons  by  the  end  of  the  century. 

This  high  rural  population  growth  rate  accounted  for  the  rela- 
tively low  share,  only  30  percent,  of  the  total  national  population 
found  in  the  capital  in  1980.  In  addition,  relatively  few  "new  cities," 
towns  increasing  from  under  to  over  10,000  inhabitants,  appeared 
in  the  three  decades  prior  to  1980.  Urban  growth  therefore  was 
limited  primarily  to  increases  in  existing  cities.  During  the  1950-80 
period,  urban  areas  accounted  for  35  to  40  percent  of  the  national 
population  increase;  analysts  projected,  however,  that  between  1980 
and  2000  the  urban  sector  as  a  whole  would  probably  have  to  ab- 
sorb 48  to  57  percent  of  that  increase.  San  Salvador  was  expected 
to  receive  the  bulk  of  urban  population  growth,  perhaps  as  much 
as  65  to  69  percent  from  1980  to  2000,  while  the  two  secondary 
cities  and  the  smaller  urban  centers  would  decline  somewhat  in 
percentage  of  total  urban  population. 

Population  Growth  and  Age  Distribution 

The  population  of  El  Salvador  increased  from  1.9  million  in- 
habitants in  1950  to  4.1  million  in  1975  and  4.7  million  in  1984. 
It  was  projected  to  increase  to  8.8  million  by  the  year  2000.  In  other 
words,  the  population  would  have  doubled  in  each  quarter- century 
since  1950.  This  high  growth  rate  was  a  result  of  three  main  fac- 
tors characteristic  not  only  of  El  Salvador  but  also  of  Central  Ameri- 
ca as  a  whole:  a  rapidly  falling  death  rate,  a  continued  high  birth 
rate,  and  a  very  young  population,  i.e.,  a  high  proportion  of  the 
national  population  under  age  twenty  (see  fig.  4). 

Although  there  was  some  variance  in  figures  between  El  Sal- 
vador's census  reports  and  estimates  by  the  United  Nations  Latin 
American  Center  for  Demography  (Centro  Latinoamericano 


56 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


de  Demografia — Celade),  there  was  agreement  on  basic  birth  and 
death  statistics.  The  crude  birth  rate  (the  annual  number  of  births 
per  1,000  inhabitants)  declined  from  a  relatively  stable  49  through 
the  1950s  to  44.4  in  the  late  1960s.  In  the  major  industrial  nations, 
the  rate  is  commonly  below  20.  The  annual  death  rate  per  1,000 
inhabitants,  however,  declined  by  approximately  one-third  dur- 
ing the  same  period,  falling  from  21 .3  to  13,  and  this  decline  con- 
tributed to  the  high  rate  of  national  population  increase. 

From  1970  to  2000,  a  continuing  decline  in  both  birth  rates  and 
death  rates  was  anticipated.  Studies  projected  a  gradual  fall  in  the 
crude  birth  rate  from  42.2  in  1970-75  to  33.5  in  1995-2000  and 
in  the  crude  death  rate  from  11.1  in  1970-75  to  7.2  in  1985-90 
and  5.6  in  1995-2000  (see  table  2,  Appendix).  These  two  trends 
would  operate  more  or  less  in  tandem,  however,  so  that  the  rate 
of  natural  increase,  though  declining,  would  still  hover  at  around 
3  percent.  The  overall  population  was  very  young;  the  median  age 
in  the  country  declined  from  nineteen  in  1950  to  seventeen  in  1975, 
and  41.3  percent  were  projected  to  be  under  age  fifteen  by  the  year 
2000.  It  is  noteworthy  here  that  life  expectancy  at  birth  improved 
from  approximately  forty-six  years  in  the  1950s  to  fifty-nine  years 
in  1977  and  to  sixty-five  years  in  1984  (sixty-three  years  for  males 
and  sixty-six  for  females),  largely  as  a  result  of  mass  immuniza- 
tion schemes  and  control  of  disease-bearing  insects.  Life  expectancy 
was  expected  to  reach  sixty-nine  to  seventy  years  in  1995-2000. 

Birth  rates  showed  that  total  fertility  rates  (the  number  of  chil- 
dren a  woman  would  bear  in  her  lifetime  if  she  experienced  aver- 
age fertility)  ranged  from  approximately  6.1  to  6.3  in  the  mid-1970s, 
down  from  6.7  in  1961 .  Analysts  projected  that  this  rate  would  drop 
to  4.4  in  1995-2000.  The  decrease  in  the  level  of  fertility  since  1961 
was  seen  in  the  twenty-  to  thirty-nine-year-old  age-group. 

Family  planning  programs  of  both  the  privately  organized  Sal- 
vadoran  Demographic  Association,  which  was  founded  in  1962  and 
began  operations  in  1967,  and  (after  1971)  government  agencies 
under  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health  and  Social  Services  probably 
contributed  to  this  decline  in  fertility  rates.  The  groups  lobbied 
for  family  planning  programs,  provided  family  planning  clinics, 
and  dispensed  birth  control  information  and  devices.  Female  sterili- 
zation was  the  most  common  birth  control  method  because  it  is 
final  and  does  not  require  frequent  checkups  or  visits  to  clinics  for 
additional  supplies.  The  need  for  clinic  visits  has  associated  use 
of  oral  contraceptives  in  the  popular  mind  with  illness.  In  addi- 
tion, there  were  fewer  religious  objections  to  sterilization.  At  the 
same  time,  abortions  also  were  widely  practiced.  Abortion  was  ille- 
gal in  El  Salvador,  and  improperly  performed  abortions  were 


57 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


POPULATION   IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Robert  W.  Fox  and  Jerrold  W.  Huguet,  Population  and 
Urban  Trends  in  Central  America  and  Panama,  Washington,  1977,  103-4. 

Figure  4.  Estimated  Population  Distribution  by  Age  and  Sex,  1985 


common.  They  were  the  third  leading  cause  of  hospital  admissions 
in  1975,  constituting  24  of  every  1,000  admissions,  according  to 
a  sample  survey. 

Fertility  rates  showed  significant  contrasts  between  urban  and  rural 
settings.  In  1975  the  birth  rate  per  1,000  women  in  rural  areas  was 
estimated  at  46  to  47,  whereas  in  urban  areas  it  stood  at  approxi- 
mately 34  to  35  (31  to  33  for  the  San  Salvador  metropolitan  area). 
On  average,  by  age  thirty-five,  rural  women  had  seven  children  while 
urban  women  had  only  five.  By  the  end  of  their  childbearing  years, 
rural  women,  on  average,  had  eight  children,  and  urban  women 
had  six.  Given  the  markedly  inferior  health  conditions  of  the  coun- 
tryside, however,  of  the  two  additional  children  born  to  rural  women, 
only  one  would  survive.  The  number  of  children  under  age  one  per 
1,000  women  between  ages  fifteen  and  forty-four  declined  by  16.5 
percent  in  urban  areas  from  1961  to  1971,  while  it  remained  essen- 
tially unchanged  over  that  same  time  period  in  rural  areas. 

Disparate  fertility  rates  underscored  the  point  that  El  Salvador 
continued  to  be  a  rural  country  in  the  late  1980s,  "rural"  in  this 
context  including  all  population  in  towns  of  less  than  20,000.  In 
fact,  El  Salvador  showed  the  highest  rural  population  increase — 82 
percent  from  1961  to  1980 — in  Latin  America. 


58 


Metro  Center  shopping  mall,  a  modern  retail  center  in  San  Salvador 


The  Structure  of  Society 

In  the  late  1980s,  El  Salvador  was  experiencing  severe  internal 
stress  as  a  result  of  an  ongoing  insurgency,  a  severely  debilitated 
economy,  and  persistent  socioeconomic  inequalities.  Despite  re- 
form efforts  begun  under  the  post- 1979  civilian-military  junta 
governments,  the  country's  longstanding  division  between  rich  and 
poor  still  represented  a  challenge  to  Salvadoran  leaders  and  to  the 
society  as  a  whole. 

The  sharp  contrast  between  those  with  great  wealth  and  those 
living  in  extreme  poverty  had  characterized  Salvadoran  society  for 
more  than  a  century  and  had  roots  in  its  colonial  past  (see  Spanish 
Conquest  and  Colonization,  ch.  1).  When  El  Salvador  became  an 
independent  republic  in  the  early  nineteenth  century,  this  pattern 
did  not  change.  Wealthy  landowners,  members  of  only  a  very  few 
families,  organized  the  national  government  to  secure  their  posi- 
tions and  continued  to  dominate  Salvadoran  national  life.  Rural 
peasants  and  workers  provided  for  their  own  subsistence  needs  and 
labored  for  the  elite.  Indeed,  as  the  century  progressed,  this  pat- 
tern was  sharpened  by  the  successful  introduction  of  coffee  as  an 
export  cash  crop.  As  the  landed  elite,  along  with  more  recently  ar- 
rived European  banking  and  financial  families  interested  in  coffee, 
began  to  realize  the  wealth  potential  of  this  crop,  they  increased 
the  size  of  their  estates. 


59 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


They  did  so  by  absorbing  into  their  private  holdings  public  lands 
(forests)  and  the  communal  lands  of  municipios  (the  Salvadoran 
equivalent  of  counties)  and  Indian  communities,  lands  formerly 
cultivated  in  small  subsistence  plots  by  mestizo  and  Indian  peasants. 
The  government  officially  decreed  these  common  lands  out  of  ex- 
istence in  favor  of  private  property  ownership  in  1881.  Those  dis- 
possessed of  their  subsistence  lands  became  permanent  or  seasonal 
laborers  working  for  extremely  low  wages  on  coffee  estates,  which 
were  labor-intensive  enterprises.  To  protect  their  lands  and  their 
prosperity,  the  coffee  elite  formed  a  strong  economic  and  political 
oligarchy.  The  army  and  the  National  Guard  (Guardia  Nacional — 
GN)  were  employed  to  control  the  unrest  and  occasional  open  re- 
bellions among  the  many  now  landless  and  poorly  paid  laborers. 

When  coffee  prices  fell  during  the  Great  Depression  of  the  1930s, 
laborers'  wages  were  reduced  still  further,  and  since  much  subsis- 
tence land  had  been  converted  to  private  coffee  cultivation  and  the 
production  of  staple  crops  had  declined  accordingly,  living  condi- 
tions worsened  (see  Economic  Crisis  and  Repression,  ch.  1).  Un- 
employment rose  too,  as  many  coffee  growers  decided  not  to  harvest 
their  crops.  In  addition,  many  small  landowners,  unable  to  sur- 
vive the  low  coffee  prices,  lost  their  lands  to  those  who  were 
wealthier,  and  landownership  became  even  more  concentrated. 

In  the  decades  following  the  depression,  export  agriculture  be- 
came somewhat  diversified  as  cotton  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  sugar 
also  became  important  plantation  cash  crops,  and  some  of  the  elite 
began  to  argue  for  industrial  development.  The  upper  class  in  gen- 
eral, however,  strongly  resisted  any  significant  changes  in  the  basic 
social,  economic,  and  political  order.  After  a  rural  uprising  in  1932 
and  the  brutal  reprisals  later  referred  to  as  la  matanza  (the  massacre), 
in  which  about  30,000  were  killed  by  troops,  the  dominance  of  the 
elite  was  preserved  and  defended  by  the  Salvadoran  military  (see 
Economic  Crisis  and  Repression,  ch.  1). 

The  Upper  Sector 

In  relation  to  the  total  population,  the  Salvadoran  elite  was  very 
small;  by  the  early  1980s  it  constituted  approximately  2  percent 
of  the  population.  This  social  sector,  however,  owned  60  percent 
of  the  nation's  productive  land,  exercised  direct  or  indirect  con- 
trol over  all  key  productive  sectors  of  the  economy,  and  accounted 
for  one-third  of  the  national  income. 

The  economic  interests  of  the  elite  fell  into  three  general 
categories:  export-oriented  agribusiness,  including  coffee,  cotton, 
sugar,  and  cattle;  commercial  and  financial  enterprises,  including 
insurance,  financial  investment,  real  estate,  utilities,  and  banks; 


60 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  relatively  newer  retail  and  industrial  interests,  including  dis- 
tributorships and  manufacturing.  Given  the  continued  dominance 
of  export  agriculture  and  of  financial  interests  in  the  1980s,  this 
third  category  remained  less  significant  overall. 

Among  the  elite,  there  were  divisions  based  on  relative  social 
status  and  prestige  as  determined  by  ancestry.  The  oldest  and  most 
prestigious  families  were  those  associated  with  the  colonial  "found- 
ing fathers"  who  had  developed  export  agriculture.  Next  in  the 
pecking  order  were  the  families,  mainly  involved  in  banking  and 
finance,  whose  European  ancestors  had  immigrated  to  El  Salvador 
in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries  with  a  useful 
knowledge  of  foreign  markets.  The  newest  elite  families,  on  the 
lowest  social  rung  of  the  upper  echelon,  included  Lebanese,  Pales- 
tinians, and  Jews  and  were  pejoratively  referred  to  as  "Turcos" 
by  the  "older"  elites.  These  most  recent  immigrants  constituted 
the  bulk  of  the  Salvadoran  merchant  class;  they  tended  to  social- 
ize primarily  within  their  own  group. 

Despite  these  social  distinctions,  the  Salvadoran  elite  as  a  whole 
was  interconnected  through  bonds  of  shared  economic  interest, 
direct  business  dealings,  particularly  between  the  agribusiness  and 
financial  sectors,  and  frequent  intermarriage.  The  families  of  the 
oligarchy  generally  intermarried.  Daughters  anticipated  lives  as 
pampered  mothers  and  wives,  while  sons  expected  a  place  in  one 
of  the  family  businesses.  Generally,  members  of  elite  families  tended 
to  live  in  San  Salvador,  whence  they  traveled  periodically  to  their 
plantations,  which  were  usually  directed  on  site  by  resident  adminis- 
trators, or  to  Western  Europe  or  the  United  States  for  business 
or  recreation.  The  elite  educated  their  children  in  private  schools 
and  in  United  States  universities,  entertained  at  fashionable  clubs, 
and  enjoyed  extravagant  conspicuous  consumption. 

To  reconcile  their  differences  and  represent  their  interests,  the 
elite  organized  into  associations.  Most  notable  among  these  associ- 
ations was  the  National  Association  of  Private  Enterprise  (Asocia- 
cion  Nacional  de  la  Empresa  Privada — ANEP),  which  has  expressed 
oligarchy  views  through  various  declarations  in  the  media  and  be- 
fore the  government  (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4). 

The  economic  oligarchy,  although  traditionally  the  most  influen- 
tial sector  of  Salvadoran  society,  was  not  the  most  powerful  in  and 
of  itself.  The  Salvadoran  upper  sector  also  included  the  officer  ranks 
of  the  military.  Active  or  retired  military  personnel  headed  the 
government  from  1932  to  1982,  and,  as  a  result,  ambitious  indi- 
vidual military  officers  and  officer  factions  also  emerged  as  interest 
groups  in  their  own  right.  Members  of  the  military  gradually  be- 
came involved  in  the  elite  economic  structure — managing  and 


61 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


directing  banks,  the  social  security  institute,  the  national  airline, 
and  the  census  bureau,  as  well  as  owning  large  estates  and  becom- 
ing involved  in  export  agriculture.  This  combination  of  the  officer 
corps  and  the  elite  families  constituted  the  most  powerful  political 
and  economic  force  in  the  country. 

Although  their  interests  became  closely  interwoven,  the  economic 
oligarchy  and  the  military  remained  separate  entities.  A  few  select 
military  personnel  were  adopted  into  the  oligarchy  after  their  retire- 
ment, but  few  in  the  military  were  welcomed  into  the  more  exclu- 
sive San  Salvador  clubs  frequented  by  the  elite.  For  its  own  part, 
the  officer  corps  was  a  closed  and  cliquish  group;  90  percent  of 
its  members  were  graduates  of  the  Captain  General  Gerardo  Bar- 
rios Military  Academy  (Escuela  Militar  Capitan  General  Gerardo 
Barrios)  and  organized  in  mutually  supportive  networks  based  on 
graduating  class  membership.  Each  graduating  class  formed  a  group 
known  as  a  tanda,  whose  members  assisted  each  other  and  entered 
alliances  with  other  tandas  to  broker  the  allocation  of  command  and 
staff  positions  within  the  armed  forces  (see  Officer  Corps  Dynam- 
ics, ch.  5).  The  military  served  as  one  of  the  few  mechanisms  of 
upward  mobility  in  Salvadoran  society.  The  expectation  of  power 
and  prestige  was  a  considerable  motivator  for  cadets,  most  of  whom 
typically  came  from  a  Salvadoran  middle-class  background. 

The  Lower  Sector 

The  vast  majority  of  Salvadorans  were  members  of  the  lower 
sector  of  the  population,  which  was  composed  of  full-  or  part-time 
laborers,  peasant  smallholders,  and  the  unemployed.  Although  there 
was  considerable  diversity  within  this  large  social  sector,  most  of 
its  members  shared  the  common  denominators  of  dependence  on 
the  cash  economy  and  insufficient  earning  power  for  even  a 
minimally  adequate  standard  of  living.  The  variation  within  this 
population  reflected  degrees  of  landlessness,  types  of  employment, 
residence  locations,  and  relationship  with  economic  and  military 
pow~i  holders. 

In  1981  approximately  58  percent  of  Salvadorans  lived  in  rural 
areas,  some  as  full-time  estate  workers  (colonos),  others  owning  or 
more  likely  renting  (arrendatarios)  small  plots  of  marginal  land,  and 
many,  both  those  with  small  plots  of  land  and  the  vast  number  who 
were  landless,  as  seasonal  wage  laborers  or  unemployed.  During 
the  1980s,  the  number  of  workers  depending  on  agriculture  for  jobs 
increased,  as  a  result  of  both  population  growth  in  the  rural  areas 
and  the  civil  conflict,  which  eliminated  more  nonagricultural  than 
agricultural  jobs. 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  extent  of  access  to  marginal  subsistence  plots  varied  accord- 
ing to  the  degree  of  plantation  development  in  the  various  regions 
of  El  Salvador.  The  hilly  northern  departments  of  Chalatenango, 
Cabanas,  and  Morazan,  adjacent  to  the  Honduran  border,  con- 
tained relatively  few  large  estates.  Consequently,  subsistence  farms 
continued  to  exist  there.  But  such  farms,  being  small  and  with  mar- 
ginal soil  quality,  generally  did  not  provide  full  self-sufficiency  or 
year-round  employment.  Nor  was  much  cash  available  from  the 
sale  of  produce,  for  the  government,  concerned  with  providing  af- 
fordable food  for  city  dwellers,  kept  food  prices  low.  Consequently, 
members  of  these  peasant  families  migrated  seasonally  to  cash  crop 
(coffee)  estates  at  harvest  time,  when  they  obtained  temporary  jobs 
at  very  low  wages,  or  moved  to  San  Salvador. 

Peasants  living  in  areas  where  coffee,  cotton,  and  sugarcane  were 
grown  extensively  were  less  likely  to  have  access  to  subsistence  plots, 
although  valiant  attempts  were  made  to  cultivate  the  rocky,  mar- 
ginal land  on  the  steep  hillsides  of  the  volcanic  ranges  of  central 
El  Salvador,  where  coffee  estates  absorbed  all  good  land  in  the  cen- 
tral valleys  and  on  the  cultivable  slopes.  The  development  of  cot- 
ton estates  on  the  low-lying  coastal  plain  and  of  sugarcane,  grown 
between  the  coastal  cotton  and  hilly  coffee  regions,  also  dislocated 
many  peasants.  In  addition,  large-scale  mechanization  in  the  1970s 
eliminated  the  need  for  sizable  labor  forces  on  these  estates.  For 
example,  one  6,000-hectare  cotton  estate  employed  a  total  regular 
work  force  of  only  thirty-five  people.  The  development  of  grazing 
lands  for  export  cattle  on  the  coastal  plain  and  in  some  interior 
valleys  again  reduced  available  subsistence  land  while  requiring 
very  few  laborers.  In  the  1970s,  more  of  El  Salvador's  land  resources 
were  used  for  cattle  grazing  than  for  production  of  food  crops. 

In  addition,  as  social  unrest  grew  among  rural  laborers,  large 
estate  owners  preferred  wherever  possible  to  increase  the  use  of 
seasonal  rather  than  permanent  workers.  In  the  cotton- growing 
areas,  for  example,  the  number  of  colonos  decreased  by  60  to  95 
percent  during  the  1960s.  Overall,  the  number  of  landholdings  with 
colono  arrangements  dropped  from  a  high  of  55,000  in  1961  to  17,000 
in  1971 .  Permanent  agricultural  workers  were  thought  to  be  more 
susceptible  than  temporary  workers  to  political  organization  and 
therefore  were  believed  to  constitute  more  of  a  potential  threat  to 
elite  land  rights.  This  attitude  further  increased  the  number  of 
underemployed  and  unemployed  landless  laborers  in  the  country- 
side. A  few  statistics  illustrate  the  situation  in  general.  In  1961, 
about  12  percent  of  the  rural  population  was  landless;  by  1971  the 
figure  had  reached  29  percent;  in  1975  the  number  of  landless 
was  estimated  at  41  percent.  Similarly,  from  1950  to  1970  rural 


63 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

unemployment  stood  at  45  to  50  percent.  By  1975  only  37  percent 
of  rural  workers  worked  full  time,  14  percent  worked  an  average 
of  nine  months,  19  percent  worked  an  average  of  six  months,  and 
a  full  30  percent  worked  for  only  two  to  three  months  annually. 
By  1980  an  estimated  65  percent  of  the  rural  population  was  land- 
less and  dependent  on  wage  employment. 

The  small  percentage  of  the  labor  force  employed  in  industry 
was  somewhat  better  off  than  agricultural  workers,  but  only  about 
12.8  percent  of  the  labor  force  was  employed  in  industry  in  1961, 
and  by  1971  that  number  had  dropped  to  9.8  percent  (see  Indus- 
try, ch.  3).  Their  low  numbers  in  part  reflected  the  use  of  capital- 
intensive  technology,  which  made  it  unnecessary  to  hire  a  large 
work  force.  Jobs  also  were  few  because  industry  in  general,  and 
manufacturing  in  particular,  remained  limited  as  a  result  of  capi- 
tal flight  caused  by  political  instability,  the  unsettled  economy,  and 
damaging  guerrilla  attacks. 

Enlisted  military  personnel,  another  component  of  the  lower  sec- 
tor, were  young  peasant  conscripts  or  volunteers  who  had  joined 
the  armed  forces  to  enjoy  three  meals  a  day  and  a  warm  place  to 
sleep;  some  of  the  conscripts  had  been  impressed  into  service  in 
response  to  manpower  shortages.  After  discharge  from  active  duty, 
some  ex-servicemen  signed  on  for  further  service  and  benefits  as 
military  reservists  in  the  GN  or  in  civil  defense  groups. 

The  Middle  Sector 

The  small  proportion  of  society  constituting  a  middle  class — 
about  8  percent  in  the  early  1980s — included  skilled  workers, 
government  employees,  professionals,  school  teachers,  smallholders, 
small  businessmen,  and  commercial  employees.  These  people  were 
caught  between  the  polar  extremes  of  wealth  and  poverty.  Not  being 
members  of  the  traditional  oligarchy — although  the  great  success 
of  nineteenth-century  coffee  production  had  stimulated  the  develop- 
ment of  the  middle  sector  as  well  as  of  the  elite — the  middle  sector 
traditionally  had  little  direct  influence  in  government  affairs.  Simi- 
larly, although  profoundly  influenced  by  the  United  States,  mem- 
bers of  this  population  sector  did  not  have  sufficient  wealth  to  enjoy 
ready  access  to  schooling  or  travel  in  that  country.  Instead,  hav- 
ing only  a  tenuous  toehold  on  property  and  limited  power  within 
the  existing  Salvadoran  system,  the  middle  sector  found  its  posi- 
tion precarious  and  felt  seriously  threatened  by  El  Salvador's 
political  and  economic  crises. 

After  the  depression  of  the  1930s,  the  middle  sector  hoped  to 
improve  the  standard  of  living  for  all  Salvadorans  through  agra- 
rian reform  and  through  legalized  peasant  organizing.  In  the  1960s 


64 


woman  in  Santa  Ines,  San  Miguel  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 


65 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

and  early  1970s,  various  professionals  and  other  members  of  the 
middle  class  tried  to  promote  meaningful  elections  and  called  for 
a  transition  to  more  open  and  participatory  democratic  procedures. 
As  economic  and  political  crises  deepened  in  the  1970s  and  1980s, 
however,  many  members  of  the  middle  class  became  alienated  by 
the  rising  tide  of  political  violence.  Many  of  these  Salvadorans 
wished  that  the  problem  of  "subversives"  would  simply  go  away 
so  that  order,  stability,  and  economic  growth  could  be  restored. 
Others,  however,  chose  to  become  increasingly  active  in  political 
parties  or  popular  organizations. 

Indians 

In  contrast  to  most  other  Central  American  countries,  El  Sal- 
vador in  the  late  1980s  did  not  contain  an  ethnically  distinct  Indian 
population.  Native  communities  of  Pipil  and  also  Lenca,  located 
mainly  in  the  western  departments,  constituted  perhaps  60  per- 
cent of  the  population  throughout  the  colonial  era  and  into  the  early 
decades  of  independence.  But  the  development  of  coffee  estates  saw 
the  dissolution  of  the  communal  lands  of  native  villages  and  the 
slow  but  continual  incorporation  of  Indians  into  the  general  cash 
economy,  where  they  became  peasants  and  wage  laborers.  By  the 
late  nineteenth  century,  this  assimilation  process  was  essentially 
complete.  The  1930  census,  the  last  census  containing  the  category 
of  "Indian,"  designated  only  5.6  percent  of  the  population,  or  some 
80,000  persons,  as  Indian,  although  it  is  not  clear  what  criteria 
were  used  in  this  determination.  Other,  possibly  more  accurate, 
independent  estimates,  however,  placed  the  mid-twentieth-century 
Indian  population  at  20  percent,  or  close  to  400,000  persons.  The 
criteria  used  in  these  estimates  to  identify  individuals  as  Indian 
included  religious  activities,  distinctive  women's  dress,  language, 
and  involvement  in  various  handicrafts.  Still,  the  life-style  of  the 
majority  of  these  people  was  no  longer  completely  Indian.  Most 
were  ladinoized,  Hispanic  acculturated,  monolingual  Spanish 
speakers  who  did  not  wear  distinctive  Indian  dress.  The  remain- 
ing Indian  population  was  found  primarily  in  southwestern  El 
Salvador. 

The  abandonment  of  Indian  language  and  customs  was  hastened 
by  political  repression  after  an  abortive  peasant/Indian  uprising 
in  1932.  The  revolt  centered  in  the  western  part  of  the  country, 
around  the  former  Indian  towns  of  Ahuachapan,  Santa  Ana,  and 
Sonsonate,  where  the  growth  of  coffee  estates  since  the  late 
nineteenth  century  had  absorbed  subsistence  lands  of  Indians  and 
mestizos  alike.  The  revolt  was  supported  by  a  number  of  Indian 
community  leaders  {caciques).  Even  though  most  Indian  communal 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


lands  had  been  lost,  traditional  community-centered  religious- 
political  organizations  (cqfradias)  and  their  leaders  remained  suffi- 
ciently influential  to  organize  and  direct  popular  unrest.  The  harsh 
and  bloody  reprisal  (la  matanza)  by  government  forces  that  ensued 
fell  on  the  entire  population  of  the  region  whether  they  had  been 
combatants  or  not,  and  most  had  not.  Perhaps  as  many  as  30,000 
were  killed,  including  many  who  were  culturally  designated  as  In- 
dian or  who  were  deemed  by  government  forces  to  have  an  Indian- 
like physical  appearance.  In  the  face  of  such  racially  motivated 
repression,  most  natives  stopped  wearing  traditional  dress,  aban- 
doned the  Pipil  language,  and  adopted  ladino  customs.  In  1975 
it  was  estimated  that  no  more  than  1  percent  of  the  population  wore 
distinctive  Indian  clothing  or  followed  Indian  customs. 

Even  though  visible  signs  of  ethnic  identity  were  all  but  lost,  many 
persons  retained  an  interest  in  Salvadoran  Indian  heritage  and 
worked  to  preserve  it  as  best  they  could.  During  the  1970s,  the 
Central  American  University  Jose  Simeon  Canas  (Universidad 
Centroamericana  Jose  Simeon  Canas — UCA)  in  San  Salvador 
began  a  systematic  study  of  the  surviving  elements  of  the  Pipil  lan- 
guage; researchers  found  that  about  one- tenth  of  households  in  Son- 
sonate,  Ahuachapan,  and  La  Libertad  contained  at  least  one  Pipil 
speaker.  Various  aspects  of  Indian  tradition,  including  dance 
ceremonies  that  had  been  held  in  private  for  thirty  years,  were  also 
rediscovered.  As  political  tensions  grew  in  the  1980s,  however, 
access  to  Indian  households  became  more  difficult,  and  the  Pipil 
language  study  was  stopped. 

In  short,  although  observers  have  estimated  that  much  of  the  Sal- 
vadoran population  in  the  1980s  could  be  said  to  possess  an  Indian 
racial  background,  culturally  there  was  no  significant  Indian  ethnic 
sector  in  the  country.  Nonetheless,  the  concept  of  Indian  ethnicity 
was  still  a  rallying  point.  In  the  mid-1980s,  thousands  of  persons 
nationwide  supported  a  popular  organization  known  as  the  National 
Association  of  Salvadoran  Indians  (Asociacion  Nacional  Indigena 
Salvadorena — ANIS)  headquartered  in  Sonsonate. 

Rural  Life 

As  indicated,  El  Salvador  remained  a  largely  rural  country  despite 
the  growth  of  San  Salvador  and  its  environs.  For  the  vast  majority 
of  rural  residents,  however,  land  shortages,  unemployment  and 
underemployment,  and  extremely  low  wages  combined  to  keep  the 
standard  of  living  low  and  the  quality  of  life  barely  tolerable. 

Standard  of  Living 

In  this  largely  agrarian  society,  land  distribution  continued  to  lie 
at  the  heart  of  the  many  problems  afflicting  the  poor.  In  1971 ,  which 


67 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

as  of  1988  was  the  date  of  the  latest  census,  92  percent  of  farms, 
some  250,500  in  number,  covered  less  than  ten  hectares  each  and 
together  constituted  only  27  percent  of  total  farm  area.  These  farms 
were  the  holdings  of  peasant  laborers  who  planted  basic  foodstuffs 
such  as  corn,  beans,  rice,  and  sorghum  on  95  percent  of  their  hold- 
ings. They  used  rotational  methods  of  agriculture  in  which  individ- 
ual plots  were  cultivated  for  about  two  years,  then  left  fallow  while 
another  plot  was  tilled. 

The  8  percent  of  the  farms  with  an  area  greater  than  ten  hec- 
tares occupied  the  remaining  73  percent  of  farm  area.  Within  this 
category,  1,941  farms  between  100  and  500  hectares  in  size, 
representing  0.8  percent  of  the  total  number  of  farms,  accounted 
for  38.7  percent  of  all  land  under  cultivation.  Less  than  20  per- 
cent of  this  land  produced  basic  grains.  Farms  of  more  than  500 
hectares  accounted  for  more  than  15  percent  of  the  cultivated  land. 
These  farms  included  the  agricultural  estates  of  the  elite.  The  data 
actually  understated  the  extent  of  land  concentration  within  the 
upper  sector,  however,  since  some  elite  individuals  owned  more 
than  one  farm  and  some  large  farms  were  registered  in  the  names 
of  various  family  members  in  an  effort  to  conceal  family  holdings. 

At  the  other  end  of  the  scale,  there  was  a  considerable  increase 
during  the  1970s  in  the  number  of  farms  composed  of  less  than 
one  hectare  of  land.  These  farms  were  on  very  poor  soil,  often  on 
steep  hillsides  prone  to  erosion,  and  frequently  were  rented  rather 
than  owned.  Such  small  rental  farms  were  particularly  common 
in  the  hilly  northern  departments  of  Chalatenango,  Cuscatlan, 
Morazan,  and  Cabanas.  In  1950  there  were  70,400  such  farms; 
in  1961  there  were  107,000;  in  1971  there  were  132,000;  and  in 
1975  there  were  138,800.  Stated  somewhat  differently,  in  1975  an 
estimated  96.3  percent  of  the  rural  population  had  access  to  five 
hectares  or  less  of  generally  marginal  quality  land  per  family;  ap- 
proximately seven  hectares  were  judged  necessary  for  a  "typical" 
family  of  six  people  to  produce  enough  food  and  income  for  its 
needs. 

Wage  labor  was  the  alternative  to  agricultural  self-sufficiency 
for  the  majority  of  rural  Salvadorans.  In  fact,  by  1980  approxi- 
mately 65  percent  of  the  rural  work  force  was  landless  and  depen- 
dent on  temporary  or  full-time  wage  labor;  more  than  half  the  rural 
families  depended  on  wage  work  for  over  half  their  income.  Given 
the  lack  of  permanent  jobs  in  the  agricultural  sector,  the  low  wage 
scale,  and  the  number  of  laborers  seeking  work,  however,  cash  in- 
come was  insufficient  for  many  peasant  laborers  in  the  country- 
side. In  1975,  for  example,  a  typical  family  of  six  was  estimated 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


to  need  US$533  in  annual  income  to  buy  the  basic  food  needed 
to  survive,  yet  60  percent  earned  US$120  or  less. 

The  effect  of  a  declining  national  economy  in  the  late  1970s  and 
early  1980s,  as  evidenced  by  a  decline  in  agricultural  production 
of  7.4  percent  in  1982  and  8.7  percent  in  1983,  restricted  the  number 
of  available  jobs  (see  The  Labor  Force,  ch.  3).  Unemployment  and 
underemployment  increased  markedly  during  the  late  1970s  and 
early  1980s  and  reached  such  serious  proportions  that  by  1986, 
according  to  Salvadoran  government  statistics,  30  percent  of  the 
work  force  was  unemployed  and  another  20  percent  was  underem- 
ployed (unofficial  sources  claimed  even  higher  figures).  Of  those 
working,  a  reported  80  percent  worked  only  part  time,  often  at 
jobs  lasting  only  a  few  days,  or  received  less  than  the  minimum 
wage.  Regular  day  labor  on  a  cotton  or  sugar  estate  sometimes 
provided  the  equivalent  of  US$1.75  per  day  or  less;  seasonal  jobs 
at  harvest  sometimes  paid  as  little  as  US$0.60  a  day. 

In  addition,  even  as  the  number  of  workers  receiving  less  than 
the  minimum  wage  increased,  the  buying  power  of  that  wage 
declined  by  65  percent  from  1979  to  1983,  further  aggravating  the 
already  serious  economic  problems  of  the  poor.  The  minimum  diet 
was  very  sparse,  consisting  of  maize,  beans,  rice,  sorghum,  and, 
for  a  family  of  six,  less  than  one  kilogram  of  meat  per  month  and 
a  per  capita  caloric  intake  that  was  the  lowest  in  the  Western 
Hemisphere.  Consumption  levels  in  general  fell  by  27  percent  be- 
tween 1979  and  1981  and  by  a  further  20  percent  by  1984;  the  over- 
all cost  of  living  rose  98  percent  during  the  1979-84  period.  Clothing 
and  foodstuffs — items  on  which  some  63  percent  of  all  Salvadoran 
families  spent  62  to  65  percent  of  their  income — rose  by  153  and 
122  percent,  respectively. 

Poverty  encouraged  the  additional  hardship  of  broken  families, 
a  particularly  acute  problem  among  landless  laborers  who  often 
had  to  move  to  find  work.  By  1980  about  25  percent  of  households 
were  headed  by  women,  partially  as  a  result  of  men  leaving  the 
family  unit  in  search  of  work.  That  over  60  percent  of  children 
were  born  out  of  wedlock  was  another  indication  of  familial  insta- 
bility. 

Health  and  Welfare 

Insufficient  income  had  a  serious  adverse  effect  on  the  general 
health  and  vitality  of  the  rural  population.  In  the  mid-1980s,  El 
Salvador  was  among  the  countries  of  the  Western  Hemisphere  most 
seriously  affected  by  malnutrition.  During  the  1970s,  the  poorer 
50  percent  of  the  population  consumed,  on  average,  only  63  percent 
of  required  calories  and  56  percent  of  required  protein  according 


69 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

to  accepted  international  guidelines  for  adequate  nutrition;  the  over- 
all population  averaged  77.2  percent  of  the  minimum  standard  for 
caloric  consumption  and  83.6  percent  of  the  standard  for  protein 
consumption.  Anemia,  riboflavin  deficiencies,  and  vitamin  A  and 
other  vitamin  deficiencies  were  widespread  among  the  population. 

Malnutrition  was  particularly  prevalent  among  young  children. 
Even  before  the  upset  caused  by  civil  conflict  during  the  1980s, 
approximately  48.5  percent  of  children  under  five  years  of  age 
suffered  from  mild  malnutrition,  22.9  percent  from  moderate  mal- 
nutrition requiring  medical  attention  to  cure,  and  3.1  percent  from 
severe  malnutrition  requiring  hospitalization  for  adequate  recov- 
ery. Stated  differently,  80  percent  of  children  suffered  from  at  least 
first-degree  malnutrition — 10  to  24  percent  underweight — and  5 
percent  suffered  from  third-degree  malnutrition — over  40  percent 
underweight.  Because  pregnant  women  usually  lacked  proper  nutri- 
tion as  well,  many  children  were  born  underweight  and  under- 
nourished. 

The  poverty  responsible  for  inadequate  nourishment  among  cam- 
pesinos  was  also  reflected  in  substandard  homes  and  living  condi- 
tions. In  some  regions,  land  for  housing  and  domestic  life  was 
limited  to  an  absolute  minimum  by  the  expansion  of  private  es- 
tates. Some  closely  crowded  groups  of  huts  were  strung  along  the 
remaining  narrow  strips  of  public  lands  bordering  highways  and 
rivers  or  erected  on  narrow  peripheries  between  the  fenced  bound- 
aries of  estates  closed  to  resident  laborers  and  the  nearest  public 
road,  in  an  arrangement  called  "fence  housing." 

Rural  homes  typically  sheltered  four  or  more  persons.  They 
usually  had  one,  sometimes  two,  rooms,  dirt  floors,  walls  of  adobe 
brick  or  bahareque  (wood  frame  with  a  mud  or  rubble  fill)  or  of  poles 
and  straw,  and  thatched  or  tiled  roofs.  The  kitchen  commonly  was 
in  a  separate  shelter  or  located  under  an  extension  of  the  main  roof. 
Even  in  the  1980s,  almost  none  of  the  rural  population  had  access 
to  sewage  systems.  Some  12  percent  had  latrines  or  septic  tanks, 
but  80  percent  had  no  sanitation  facilities.  Surface  water  was  seri- 
ously polluted  by  agriculture  and  industry,  yet  60  percent  of  the 
rural  population  depended  on  rivers  and  streams  and/or  rainwater 
and  22  percent  on  wells  for  their  water  needs.  Some  93  percent 
were  without  electricity  and  used  kerosene  lamps  or  candles  for 
light  and  wood  or  charcoal  for  cooking  and  heat. 

Conditions  such  as  these,  combined  with  malnutrition,  produced 
high  rates  of  chronic  illness  and  high  mortality,  especially  in  in- 
fants and  young  children.  Although  families  of  three  to  four  chil- 
dren were  considered  the  most  desirable  size,  rural  women  actually 
had  an  average  of  six  to  eight  children  and,  given  the  high  infant 


70 


Nurse  in  rural  health  post  administering  an  injection 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

death  rate  (about  120  to  125  per  1,000  live  births)  often  had  twice 
as  many  pregnancies.  In  general,  about  30  percent  of  all  deaths 
per  year  were  of  children  under  the  age  of  one,  and  another  14 
percent  occurred  in  the  age- group  from  one  to  four. 

Several  diseases  posed  particularly  serious  problems.  Malaria 
was  of  major  concern  in  rural  departments,  with  morbidity  ranges 
between  4,100  and  1,800  per  100,000  inhabitants  in  the  1980s. 
Water-borne  diseases  were  also  particularly  common  and  one  of 
the  major  factors  affecting  mortality.  In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  the 
leading  causes  of  death  included  enteritis  and  other  diarrheal  dis- 
eases, as  well  as  pneumonia  and  other  respiratory  diseases,  such 
as  bronchitis,  emphysema,  and  asthma.  Nutritional  insufficiencies, 
perinatal  complications,  infections,  and  parasitic  diseases  also  took 
a  high  toll,  especially  among  children  (see  table  3,  Appendix).  As 
of  1987,  El  Salvador  had  reported  sixteen  cases  of  acquired  im- 
mune deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS),  the  lowest  total  of  any  Cen- 
tral American  country  except  Belize.  Of  the  sixteen,  six  victims 
had  died. 

High  mortality  rates  reflected  the  fact  that  health  care  itself  was 
limited  and  medical  facilities  for  the  general  population  inadequate. 
This  condition  was  aggravated  by  the  civil  disturbances  of  the  1980s. 
The  1971  census  indicated  that  there  were  three  doctors  and  seven- 
teen hospital  beds  for  every  10,000  persons.  In  1984  ten  general 


71 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

hospitals  and  twelve  health  centers,  in  addition  to  several  hundred 
other  community  posts  and  dispensaries,  provided  between  0.5  and 
1.5  beds  per  1,000  inhabitants  outside  the  San  Salvador  metropoli- 
tan area.  Some  rural  regions  did  not  have  any  hospital  facilities. 
Where  rural  hospitals  existed,  health  care  personnel  frequently  were 
hampered  in  their  work  by  limited  equipment  and  supplies  and 
unsanitary  conditions.  These  conditions  made  it  difficult  to  meet 
even  the  ordinary  medical  needs  of  the  rural  population.  For  exam- 
ple, most  births  took  place  at  home,  sometimes  with  the  assistance 
of  relatives  or  neighbors,  but  often  unassisted. 

Rural  areas  were  deprived  of  sufficient  government-financed 
social  programs  in  part  because  of  a  longstanding  governmental 
preference  to  keep  taxes  low  and  to  concentrate  the  provision  of 
services  in  San  Salvador.  The  situation  was  exacerbated  by 
increased  military  spending  during  the  1980s,  as  the  budget  allo- 
cations for  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health  and  Social  Services 
declined  in  real  terms.  Similarly,  the  number  of  medical  person- 
nel available  to  work  in  rural  areas  declined  drastically  after  the 
Medical  School  of  the  National  University  was  closed  in  1980,  end- 
ing the  flow  of  interns,  who  had  provided  much  of  the  medical  care 
in  the  countryside.  In  addition,  many  doctors  and  other  health 
workers  in  rural  areas  either  relocated  or  abandoned  their  efforts 
as  a  result  of  the  intensifying  civil  conflict  in  the  1980s. 

The  government,  particularly  through  the  Ministry  of  Public 
Health  and  Social  Services,  recognized  as  national  priorities  the 
need  for  improvement  of  health  services,  control  of  malaria,  im- 
proved sanitation  and  drinking  water  quality,  and  increased  child 
survival.  It  pledged  to  follow  various  lines  of  action  toward  these 
ends. 

Social  security  was  another  government  benefit  to  which  rural 
Sal^adorans  had  far  less  access  than  urban  dwellers.  The  social  secu- 
rity system  was  administered  by  the  Salvadoran  Social  Security 
Institute,  an  autonomous  institution  first  established  in  1949.  Its 
medical  benefits  and  pension  system,  implemented  in  1969,  cov- 
ered employees  in  industry  and  commerce  but  excluded  agricul- 
tural workers,  domestics,  casual  employees,  and  civil  servants.  The 
latter  were  covered  by  a  different  system.  The  institute  also  ad- 
ministered a  number  of  hospitals  throughout  the  country.  Individ- 
uals (and  their  spouses)  covered  by  the  system  were  entitled  to 
sickness  and  maternity  benefits,  care  for  work-related  injuries,  and 
pensions  on  the  basis  of  old  age  or  disability.  The  system  was  funded 
by  payroll  deductions  from  the  insured,  as  well  as  by  employer  and 
government  contributions. 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Education 

Public  education  was  a  higher  priority  than  health  care  for 
government  spending,  and  statistics  reflected  this  disparity.  School 
attendance  and  literacy  in  general  increased  notably  in  El  Salvador 
as  a  whole  during  the  twentieth  century,  particularly  during  the 
1960s,  when  an  ambitious  program  of  school  construction  was  car- 
ried out.  Officially,  literacy  increased  from  26.2  percent  of  the  adult 
population  in  1930  to  59.7  percent  in  1971.  By  1980  only  31  per- 
cent of  the  population  aged  ten  years  or  older  was  considered 
illiterate. 

The  Salvadoran  education  system  included  one  year  of  preschool, 
nine  years  of  basic  education,  three  years  of  secondary  education, 
and  higher  education  at  two  universities  and  several  specialized 
postsecondary  institutions.  The  curriculum  at  the  basic  and  secon- 
dary levels,  developed  by  the  Ministry  of  Education,  was  uniform 
throughout  the  country.  The  provision  of  education,  however, 
suffered  from  a  rural-urban  dichotomy.  Countrywide  statistics  dis- 
played the  weakness  of  the  school  system  on  the  secondary  level; 
in  a  1976  study,  only  34  percent  of  students  reached  grade  nine, 
and  15  percent  reached  grade  twelve. 

In  the  1970s,  primary- school  enrollment  increased  by  90  per- 
cent. The  benefit  of  such  schooling,  however,  disproportionately 
favored  urban  areas,  especially  San  Salvador,  even  though  the 
majority  of  the  illiterate  population  lived  in  rural  areas.  Stated  differ- 
ently, in  1980  about  40  percent  of  the  rural  population  over  age 
ten  was  illiterate,  as  compared  with  25  percent  of  the  urban  dwellers. 
In  the  1970s,  fewer  than  two-thirds  of  school-age  rural  children 
attended  primary  schools,  as  compared  with  more  than  90  percent 
of  their  urban  counterparts.  About  8  percent  of  the  country's  total 
enrollment  in  middle  secondary  education,  grades  seven  through 
nine,  were  rural  children;  at  the  upper  secondary  level,  grades  ten 
through  twelve,  about  1  percent  were  rural  children.  In  addition, 
illiteracy  was  twice  as  prevalent  among  women  as  among  men;  only 
about  30  percent  of  higher  education  students  were  female. 

The  high  degree  of  rural  illiteracy  reflected  several  factors.  At 
the  most  basic  level,  the  number  of  teachers  and  schools  provided 
for  rural  areas  was  seriously  inadequate.  In  the  1970s,  only  15  per- 
cent of  the  nation's  schoolteachers  served  in  rural  areas;  although 
64  percent  of  primary  schools  were  in  rural  areas,  only  2  percent 
of  secondary  schools  were.  Existing  rural  schools  were  able  to  ac- 
commodate only  43  percent  of  the  rural  school-age  population.  Fur- 
thermore, of  the  primary  schools  available  for  rural  children, 
approximately  70  percent  offered  education  only  below  grade  five. 


73 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

By  contrast,  90  percent  of  urban  primary  schools  offered  grade  five 
or  above.  In  rural  areas,  the  1976  student-to-teacher  ratio  was  sixty 
to  one,  as  compared  with  forty  to  one  in  urban  areas. 

In  addition,  there  was  a  high  attrition  rate  in  school  attendance 
in  rural  areas  as  students  left  school  to  earn  incomes  or  work  at 
home.  It  is  significant  that  although  school  attendance  generally 
began  at  about  the  age  of  eight  or  nine,  about  70  percent  of  all 
male  workers  began  work  before  the  age  of  fifteen,  many  by  age 
ten  or  earlier,  thus  permitting  only  one  or  two  years  of  schooling. 
Many  girls  also  dropped  out  of  school  at  an  early  age  to  assume 
domestic  responsibilities,  such  as  caring  for  younger  siblings,  work- 
ing in  the  fields,  or  tending  animals.  Therefore,  in  1976  only  about 
20  percent  of  rural  school-age  children  reached  grade  six,  and  only 
5.7  percent  reached  grade  nine. 

Efforts  to  improve  this  situation  in  the  rural  agricultural  areas 
were  somewhat  discouraging,  in  part  because  of  the  political  ten- 
sions of  the  1980s.  In  some  situations,  teachers,  mainly  women, 
faced  threats  if  they  were  thought  to  be  supporters  of  political 
change.  Furthermore,  many  rural  landowners  seemed  to  prefer  an 
uneducated  rural  population,  on  the  grounds  that  better  educated 
workers  would  expect  better  wages  and  be  more  likely  to  organize 
and  lobby  the  government  for  reform,  particularly  land  reform. 
A  number  of  national  education  plans  developed  by  the  Ministry 
of  Education  had  recognized  the  disparity  between  rural  and  urban 
education,  but  none  had  succeeded  in  bringing  rural  education  up 
to  the  urban  level. 

Migration 

Salvadoran  migratory  patterns  have  been  shaped  by  socio- 
economic problems  such  as  insufficient  land,  limited  job  opportu- 
nities, low  wages,  and  persistent  poverty.  Some  Salvadorans 
emigrated  permanently  from  the  country,  some  moved  within  the 
rural  area  itself,  and  some  moved  to  urban  areas  in  search  of  a 
better  life.  Internal  and  external  migration  levels  were  augmented 
by  the  civil  conflict  of  the  1980s,  although  family  and  community 
fragmentation  and  dislocation  were  long-standing  characteristics 
of  life  for  the  lower  class.  These  patterns  can  be  traced  to  the  latter 
half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  when  communal  landholdings  were 
dissolved  to  facilitate  the  expansion  of  private  holdings.  This  action 
created  a  dispossessed  labor  force  whose  movements  came  to  be 
dictated  by  the  cycles  of  coffee  production. 

Seasonal  migrations  from  home  communities  to  cash  crop  es- 
tates at  times  of  harvest  have  been  a  way  of  life  for  many  rural 
dwellers  ever  since  coffee  production  came  to  dominate  the 


74 


Moncagua  displaced  persons  settlement,  San  Miguel  Department 
Courtesy  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development 

Salvadoran  economy  (see  The  Oligarchy  and  the  Liberal  State, 
ch.  1).  This  type  of  migration  was  particularly  important  for  land- 
poor  peasants  from  the  relatively  infertile  northern  departments, 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  whom  sought  seasonal  work  in  the  cen- 
tral coffee  regions.  Similarly,  as  cotton  farming  developed  in  the 
coastal  zone,  both  permanent  laborers  and  thousands  of  seasonal 
harvest  workers  followed,  particularly  to  land  east  of  the  Rio  Lempa 
and  within  the  Sonsonate  coastal  plain  in  the  southwest. 

Between  1945  and  1969,  population  increase  and  land  loss,  par- 
ticularly to  cotton  estates,  led  as  many  as  300,000  workers  and 
dispossessed  peasants — about  7  percent  of  the  Salvadoran  popula- 
tion— to  migrate  to  neighboring  Honduras.  There,  as  farm  laborers, 
squatters,  tenants,  or  small  farmers,  they  joined  the  land-poor  rural 
population  or  moved  to  provincial  towns  where  they  were  subsumed 
into  the  Honduran  labor  force.  By  the  late  1960s,  these  Salvador- 
ans  constituted  12  percent  or  more  of  the  Honduran  population, 
and  they  had  established  contacts  among  that  population,  which 
was  involved  in  its  own  agrarian  reform  efforts.  The  Honduran 
government  targeted  Salvadoran  immigrants  as  the  principal  im- 
pediment to  land  redistribution  efforts,  encouraging  anti-Salvadoran 
sentiments  in  an  attempt  to  diffuse  tensions  among  Honduran 
peasants  and  agricultural  workers.  In  the  wake  of  the  ensuing  Hon- 
duran agrarian  reform,  in  which  only  native  Hondurans  were 


75 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

allowed  to  own  land,  as  many  as  130,000  Salvadorans  were  forced, 
or  chose,  to  give  up  whatever  jobs  or  land  they  had  acquired  and 
return  to  El  Salvador.  The  exodus  of  Salvadorans  from  Honduras 
contributed  to  the  so-called  "Soccer  War"  of  1969  between  the 
two  countries,  and  the  large  number  of  returning  Salvadorans  wors- 
ened social  and  economic  tensions  within  El  Salvador  itself. 

In  spite  of  ongoing  tension  with  Honduras,  Salvadorans  con- 
tinued to  emigrate  to  that  country,  not  only  as  landless  laborers 
seeking  work  but,  in  the  early  1980s,  as  refugees  fleeing  the  civil 
conflict  in  El  Salvador.  Honduras  seemed  a  logical  refuge  for  many, 
given  its  proximity  to  the  bordering  Salvadoran  departments  of 
Morazan,  Cabanas,  and  Chalatenango,  all  areas  suffering  under 
the  civil  conflict  during  the  early  1980s.  In  1981  some  60,000  refu- 
gees were  in  Honduras,  many,  particularly  women  and  children, 
in  refugee  camps  near  the  border,  camps  administered  under  the 
auspices  of  the  office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees. 

Life  was  somewhat  uncertain  in  the  camps  because  of  the  un- 
settled circumstances  stemming  from  the  Salvadoran  conflict.  These 
pressures,  as  well  as  the  monotony  of  life  in  the  camps,  induced 
thousands  of  Salvadorans  to  return  home  in  spite  of  the  dangers 
posed  by  ongoing  warfare.  In  1987  a  reported  19,000  to  20,000 
refugees  still  resided  in  camps  in  Honduras,  the  majority  of  whom 
were  children  and  the  rest  mainly  women  and  the  elderly. 

Some  20,000  Salvadoran  refugees  also  sought  sanctuary  in 
Nicaragua,  and  an  estimated  80,000  to  1 10,000  more  relocated  to 
Guatemala  and  thence  to  Mexico,  many  ultimately  hoping  to  reach 
the  United  States.  Indeed,  between  1979  and  1988  as  many  as 
500,000  Salvadorans  were  estimated  to  have  reached  the  United 
States,  the  majority  via  Mexico.  In  overall  terms,  the  extent  of  Sal- 
vadoran emigration  to  foreign  countries  was  such  that  the  United 
Nations  (UN)  in  1982  estimated  that  one-third  of  the  work  force 
had  left  the  country.  The  number  of  refugees  and  displaced  per- 
sons in  general  was  estimated  at  1  million,  or  20  percent  of  the 
population,  roughly  half  of  whom  had  left  the  country. 

Displaced  persons  remaining  in  El  Salvador,  internal  refugees 
uprooted  by  the  civil  conflict,  followed  several  migratory  patterns. 
Some  moved  from  one  rural  area  to  another;  for  example,  some 
migrants  from  the  war  zones  of  the  east  moved  to  the  far  western 
provinces,  where  guerrilla  groups  were  less  active.  Some  fled  from 
smaller  cities  and  towns  to  the  countryside,  where  the  number  of 
internally  displaced  persons  was  estimated  at  close  to  250,000  in 
the  early  1980s.  The  highest  concentration  of  refugees,  however, 


76 


Displaced  family,  Moncagua 
Courtesy  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development 

was  found  in  the  war-torn  departments  of  Chalatenango,  Morazan, 
and  Cabanas. 

In  the  early  1980s,  many  dislocated  rural  persons  traveled  to  San 
Salvador  seeking  help  largely  through  the  auspices  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church.  Conditions  for  these  refugees  were  less  than  ideal, 
as  many  faced  severe  overcrowding,  continued  malnutrition  and 
illness,  and  harassment  from  security  forces  in  the  camps  where 
they  sought  shelter.  Others  faced  extreme  poverty  in  makeshift  slum 
settlements,  trying  to  earn  a  living  as  street  vendors. 

Urban  Life 

Well  before  the  civil  conflict  of  the  1980s,  rural-urban  migra- 
tion was  an  economic  fact  of  life  in  El  Salvador.  Most  rural  migrants 
were  attracted  to  the  capital,  San  Salvador.  Yet  prospects  for  a  better 
life  were  limited  in  the  cities  too,  and  El  Salvador  did  not  experience 
a  rush  to  urban  migration  on  the  same  scale  as  most  other  Latin 
American  countries. 

Urbanization 

In  general,  urbanization  in  El  Salvador  was  stimulated  by  the 
success  of  coffee  as  an  export  crop  and  the  growth  and  transfor- 
mation of  the  wealthy  coffee  elite  from  a  nineteenth-century  rural 
gentry  into  a  twentieth-century  national  elite.  The  political  and 
economic  dominance  of  the  coffee  oligarchy  was  particularly  respon- 
sible for  the  growth  of  the  San  Salvador  metropolitan  area  and, 
to  a  lesser  extent,  that  of  El  Salvador's  second  city,  Santa  Ana. 


77 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

During  the  nineteenth  century,  in  fact,  Santa  Ana,  situated  in  the 
heart  of  the  coffee  region,  was  the  largest  city  in  El  Salvador.  Both 
Santa  Ana  in  the  west  and  San  Miguel  in  the  east  started  as  agricul- 
tural towns  and  regional  centers;  over  time,  both  developed  small 
industrial  bases  and  commercial  and  service  establishments. 

Both  these  cities,  however,  were  overshadowed  by  the  growth 
of  San  Salvador.  Over  the  years,  especially  during  export  agricul- 
ture ''boom"  periods,  a  portion  of  the  earnings  made  by  the  elite 
was  used  to  develop  and  support  San  Salvador  as  a  modern  urban 
center,  using  European  and  then  North  American  models  as  a 
guide.  Municipal  services,  communications,  and  transportation  in- 
frastructures were  established  to  support  the  agricultural  export 
trade.  Small  manufacturing  and  food-processing  establishments  de- 
veloped, along  with  fledgling  construction,  commercial,  and  trans- 
port activities.  A  small  middle  class  of  civilian  and  military  public 
employees,  commercial  middlemen,  and  small  businessmen 
emerged.  Educational,  health,  and  welfare  services  were  instituted, 
and  urban  workers,  students,  and  artisans  were  allowed,  within 
limits,  to  organize  mutual  aid  associations,  such  as  cooperatives, 
savings  associations,  and  clubs,  and  to  present  grievances  before 
the  government. 

Urban  migration  appealed  to  some  members  of  the  rural  sector 
more  than  others.  Persons  leaving  the  northern  departments  were 
drawn  to  urban  areas  in  large  numbers.  In  addition,  the  capital, 
which  attracted  more  than  90  percent  of  urban  migrants,  generally 
offered  greater  employment  opportunities  and  better  pay  to  women 
than  to  men,  encouraging  a  relatively  high  percentage  of  women 
to  trade  rural  for  urban  life.  In  the  countryside,  government  regu- 
lations either  restricted  labor  opportunities  for  women  or  compen- 
sated them  at  a  lower  rate.  Similarly,  income  derivable  from  rural 
women's  traditional  handicraft  production  declined  in  the  face  of 
competition  from  urban  manufactured  goods;  as  a  result,  these 
traditional  handicraft  items  were  devalued  both  literally  and  figura- 
tively. Partially  as  a  result  of  such  pressures,  44  percent  of  the  urban 
labor  force  was  female  by  1975,  compared  with  only  14  percent 
of  the  rural  labor  force.  In  fact,  however,  the  participation  of  women 
in  the  rural  work  force  probably  was  larger  because  many  women 
effectively  worked  without  pay  during  coffee  or  cotton  harvests. 
Only  men  or  heads  of  household  officially  contracted  to  provide 
labor,  although  women  and  children  might  work  in  men's  crews. 
Thus,  only  men  had  a  right  to  weekly  payment,  and  only  men  had 
the  legal  right  to  a  daily  food  allowance.  When  women  were  paid, 
their  wages  generally  were  one- third  less  than  men's. 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Stated  differently,  two- thirds  of  female  workers  in  1975  were  em- 
ployed in  urban  areas,  predominantly  in  San  Salvador;  they  worked 
at  a  wide  variety  of  low- skill  jobs  characterized  by  low  pay,  long 
hours,  and  a  lack  of  benefits  or  legal  protections.  The  most  com- 
mon of  these  occupations  was  work  as  domestics  in  upper-  and 
middle-class  households  and  as  street  vendors,  even  though  vend- 
ing was  against  the  law  and  vendors  faced  police  harassment.  Some 
women  also  found  jobs  in  factories  in  the  free-zone  area  of  the  cap- 
ital, where  North  American-owned  pharmaceutical  and  textile  fac- 
tories preferred  to  hire  women  because  they  were  thought  to  be 
more  reliable  workers  than  men  (see  Foreign  Economic  Relations, 
ch.  3).  Many  women,  especially  the  least  educated,  engaged  in 
prostitution. 

Quality  of  Life 

Given  the  nature  of  available  work,  urban  centers  offered  rela- 
tively little  improvement  in  job  opportunities  for  rural  migrants. 
Although  a  small  percentage  of  the  work  force  was  organized  into 
labor  unions,  wages  generally  were  kept  low  in  the  urban  as  well 
as  in  the  rural  sector.  During  the  1970s,  an  estimated  90  percent 
of  urban  workers  received  less  than  the  legal  minimum  wage.  In 
1977  the  average  daily  wage  in  urban  manufacturing  and  service 
sectors  was  the  equivalent  of  US$2.80.  In  1983  observers  estimated 
that  a  family  needed  3.7  wage  earners  to  buy  a  basic  basket  of  goods. 
According  to  government  figures,  only  53,467  workers  earned 
enough  to  buy  the  basic  basket,  while  1,283,058  did  not.  Of  those 
who  did  not,  approximately  800,000  could  buy  no  more  than  25 
percent  of  the  basic  basket.  In  terms  of  purchasing  power,  poor 
urban  workers  earned  about  the  same  income  as  landless  rural  work- 
ers, so  there  was  not  a  strong  economic  incentive  for  urban 
migration.  In  fact,  like  landless  rural  laborers,  underemployed  or 
unemployed  city  dwellers  sometimes  sought  seasonal  work  as  har- 
vesters on  agricultural  estates. 

The  urban  job  market  reflected  the  state  of  industrialization  and 
manufacturing  in  El  Salvador.  During  the  decade  of  the  1960s, 
manufacturing  growth  was  strong  as  the  Central  American  Com- 
mon Market  enhanced  export  opportunities  (see  Manufacturing, 
ch.  3).  During  this  period,  the  total  number  of  persons  employed 
in  industry,  including  coffee,  sugar,  and  cotton  processing,  in- 
creased markedly,  mainly  in  San  Salvador.  The  increase  in 
manufacturing  jobs,  however,  was  not  as  great;  this  was  attributable 
in  part  to  the  generally  capital-intensive  nature  of  manufacturing 
in  El  Salvador. 


79 


Street  in  Mercado  Central  District,  San  Salvador 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 


81 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Although  the  total  number  of  industrial  jobs  grew,  these  jobs 
actually  declined  as  a  proportion  of  the  total  labor  market  during 
the  1960s,  dropping  from  about  13  percent  in  1961  to  about  10 
percent  in  1971 .  Consequently,  many  urban  workers  displaced  by 
manufacturing  technology  and  newcomers  from  rural  areas  were 
forced  into  the  informal  job  sector  or  into  petty  thievery  and  simi- 
lar activities. 

Because  the  cities,  and  especially  San  Salvador,  were  also  the 
home,  indeed  the  stronghold,  of  the  elite,  by  the  early  twentieth 
century  San  Salvador  displayed  a  sharp  dichotomy  between  great 
wealth  and  extreme  poverty,  between  those  who  owned  expensive 
automobiles  and  those  who  walked  barefoot  beside  ox  carts.  These 
differences  became  more  pronounced  during  the  course  of  the  twen- 
tieth century.  The  families  of  the  oligarchy  and  the  high  ranks  of 
the  military  lived  in  material  comfort  and  in  a  rather  insulated 
fashion,  avoiding  contact  with  the  poor,  who  were  ridiculed, 
deprecated,  and  despised  but  also  feared  by  the  urban  wealthy. 
The  elite  emulated  West  European  and  North  American  values 
and  life-styles,  emphasizing  material  goods,  conspicuous  consump- 
tion, and  the  "good  life." 

The  city  gave  clear  evidence  of  the  social  tensions  and  crises  exist- 
ing between  the  rich  and  the  poor.  Nowhere  was  this  better  illus- 
trated than  in  the  area  of  housing,  which  evidenced  a  severe  shortage 
for  the  majority  of  poor  and  a  kind  of  fortress  mentality  among 
the  elite.  Housing  problems  were  dramatically  increased  in  October 
1986  by  an  earthquake  centered  on  San  Salvador,  which  left  more 
than  200,000  homeless. 

Of  the  858,000  persons  living  in  San  Salvador  in  1980,  an  esti- 
mated 643,000  lived  in  slum  settiements  either  in  the  center  of  the 
city  or  on  the  periphery.  Squatter  communities  included  those  newly 
arrived  from  the  countryside  as  well  as  the  long-term  urban  poor 
who,  given  the  extensive  unemployment  and  lack  of  opportunity 
in  general,  had  not  managed  to  improve  their  standard  of  living, 
in  the  approximately  100  tugurios  (shantytowns),  single-room  dwell- 
ings were  constructed  of  tin,  cardboard,  and  cloth,  sometimes  with 
bahareque  walls  and  tiled  roofs.  The  majority  had  dirt  floors,  no  elec- 
tricity, and  no  access  to  any  kind  of  water  and  sewage  services. 
These  hovels  typically  were  crowded  onto  nationally  or  municipally 
owned  land,  such  as  riverbeds  or  rights-of-way. 

Dozens  of  similar  settlements  also  appeared  on  privately  owned 
land  held  for  speculation  and  rented  at  exorbitant  rates.  Often 
shanties  were  erected  on  such  land  before  the  owner  was  aware 
of  the  fact,  and  rent  was  a  matter  subsequently  worked  out  between 
the  squatters  and  the  landowner.  Just  as  municipal  or  national 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


authorities  did  not  guarantee  permanent  settlement  on  tugurio  sites, 
so  private  landowners  were  not  reconciled  to  permanent  settlement 
by  the  tenants  on  their  land  and  attempted  to  evict  them  if  a  more 
lucrative  use  for  the  land  emerged. 

Slums  of  a  different  sort,  called  mesones,  were  located  in  the  cen- 
tral city.  They  were  privately  owned  single- story  compounds  com- 
posed of  a  connected  series  of  five,  ten,  or  twenty  or  more  rooms, 
each  roughly  four  meters  square,  surrounding  a  common  court- 
yard. Mesones  typically  lacked  washing  or  cooking  facilities;  some 
included  access  to  a  common  latrine.  Each  room  was  rented  to  a 
separate  tenant,  either  an  individual  or  a  small  family.  Residents 
of  mesones  contrasted  with  those  oitugurios  in  household  size,  as  the 
latter  tended  to  live  in  larger  and  more  heterogeneous  households, 
partly  because  of  the  general  lack  of  landlord  or  government  con- 
trol over  their  living  conditions. 

Legally  constructed  private  housing  equipped  with  modern  fa- 
cilities and  appliances  was  available  only  for  middle-  and  upper- 
class  Salvadorans.  The  homes  of  the  elite,  many  of  them  located 
on  the  clean  streets  of  San  Benito,  the  wealthiest  neighborhood  in 
San  Salvador,  typically  were  surrounded  by  walls  two  to  three 
meters  high  or  more,  topped  with  barbed  wire  and  sometimes  elec- 
trified. Watchtowers,  gun  ports,  and  closed-circuit  television  sys- 
tems to  monitor  the  grounds  were  not  uncommon. 

In  urban  slums,  as  in  rural  areas,  poor  housing,  inadequate  and 
unsafe  water,  poor  sanitation,  and  overcrowding  created  medical 
problems,  particularly  infectious  diseases,  that  compounded  the  ill 
effects  of  such  poor  living  conditions.  The  urban  infant  mortality 
rate  was,  however,  lower  than  the  rural  infant  mortality  rate  (85 
and  120  per  1,000  live  births,  respectively,  in  the  mid-1970s). 

Well-to-do  Salvadorans  had  far  better  access  than  lower-class  Sal- 
vadorans to  medical  facilities  and  social  security  benefits,  especially 
in  urban  areas.  Health  service  delivery,  though  planned  on  a  nation- 
wide scale,  clearly  favored  urban  dwellers  (see  Health  and  Wel- 
fare, this  ch.). 

Better  education  also  was  available  in  the  city,  and  more  people 
were  able  to  take  advantage  of  it.  In  1976  about  61.7  percent  of 
urban  students  reached  the  ninth  grade,  as  compared  with  5.7  per- 
cent of  rural  students.  Some  90  percent  of  urban  children  attended 
primary  school,  and  over  90  percent  of  all  national  enrollment  in 
grades  seven  through  twelve  was  urban.  Nonetheless,  the  urban 
poor  had  the  least  likelihood  of  pursuing  education  beyond  one  or 
two  years  of  primary  classes,  since  school  attendance  required  cash 
outlays  for  materials,  special  activities,  or  uniforms.  Primary-school- 
age  children,  especially  boys,  also  were  able  to  earn  a  few  centavos 


83 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

(100  centavos  equals  1  Salvadoran  colon;  for  value  of  the  colon — 
see  Glossary)  on  the  streets  with  odd  jobs,  such  as  selling  news- 
papers, shining  shoes,  running  errands,  or  watching  cars,  to  sup- 
plement the  family  income. 

University  training  was  an  important  part  of  the  urban  educa- 
tion program  in  San  Salvador,  where  university  enrollment  reached 
35,000  in  the  1970s.  The  main  campus  of  the  National  Univer- 
sity, or  University  of  El  Salvador,  was  located  in  the  capital,  but 
branch  campuses  were  also  found  in  the  secondary  cities,  such  as 
Santa  Ana. 

Traditionally,  the  National  University  enjoyed  a  high  degree  of 
institutional  autonomy  in  its  activities  in  spite  of  a  long  tradition 
of  politically  active  students.  As  the  political  and  economic  problems 
of  the  nation  deepened  during  the  1970s,  however,  the  university 
came  to  function  not  only  as  a  lively  and  protected  forum  for  po- 
litical dialogue  but  also  as  a  haven  for  political  activists,  a  center 
for  communication  and  coordination  of  activities  among  politically 
active  opposition  groups,  and  a  recruiting  source  for  radical  leftist 
guerrilla  groups.  All  the  mass  organizations  associated  with  the 
Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation  Front  (Frente  Farabundo 
Marti  de  Liberation  Nacional — FMLN)  and  the  Revolutionary 
Democratic  Front  (Frente  Democratico  Revolucionario — FDR) 
came  to  have  offices  there,  and  the  university  was  used  as  a  press 
and  a  public  forum  by  their  representatives  (see  Political  Parties, 
ch.  4;  Left-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5). 

This  situation  changed  abruptly  in  1980  when  the  army  closed 
the  San  Salvador  campus  based  on  evidence  that  it  was  being  used 
as  an  armory  and  refuge  by  members  of  guerrilla  groups.  The 
university  staff  continued  to  operate  on  a  greatiy  reduced,  makeshift 
basis  from  rented  space  scattered  throughout  the  city,  enabling  some 
10,000  university  students  to  continue  their  studies.  In  the  violent 
atmosphere  that  prevailed  at  that  time,  some  staff  members  were 
targeted  for  attack  by  right-wing  groups,  some  were  arrested,  and 
the  university  rector  was  assassinated.  With  the  closing  of  the 
university  campus,  some  twenty-five  private  universities,  with  a 
combined  enrollment  of  25,000  persons,  sprang  up.  These  schools 
were  both  far  more  expensive  to  attend  than  the  National  Univer- 
sity, which  had  charged  only  the  equivalent  of  US$36  for  annual 
tuition,  and  more  conservative  in  attitude. 

The  Jesuit-operated  Central  American  University  Jose  Simeon 
Canas  (Universidad  Centroamericana  Jose  Simeon  Canas — UCA), 
originally  established  in  1966  by  the  elite  to  provide  a  conserva- 
tive Catholic  education  for  their  children,  continued  to  operate. 
The  staff  developed  more  liberal  leanings  than  its  oligarchical 


84 


Campus  of  the  Jesuit-run  Central  American  University 
Jose  Simeon  Canas,  San  Salvador 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

supporters  originally  intended,  however.  Members  of  the  faculty 
and  administration  strongly  supported  political  and  economic  re- 
forms and  published  political,  social,  and  economic  studies  on  na- 
tional and  regional  affairs.  Although  the  university  remained  open 
during  the  1980s,  it  was  not  immune  from  rightist  attacks  on  its 
faculty  and  facilities. 

Social  Dynamics 

The  conditions  of  economic  and  social  inequality  that  defined  the 
basic  cleavages  within  Salvadoran  society  also  generated  strong  politi- 
cal and  ideological  dynamics  within  and  among  groups  pressing  either 
for  change  or  for  maintenance  of  the  status  quo.  Further  insights  into 
the  nature  of  Salvadoran  life,  especially  during  the  1970s  and  1980s, 
may  be  obtained  by  considering  the  following  within  that  broader 
societal  context:  the  impact  of  governmental  agrarian  reform  pro- 
grams; the  reaction  of  portions  of  the  general  populace,  particularly 
popular  organizations  and  guerrilla  groups,  to  the  political  and  eco- 
nomic climate;  and  the  positions  and  actions  taken  by  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  and  by  Protestant  missionaries  in  these  matters. 

Agrarian  Reform 

During  the  1970s,  as  Salvadoran  emigrants  returned  from 


85 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Honduras,  increased  pressure  for  available  land  pushed  the  issue 
of  agrarian  reform  to  the  forefront  of  national  life.  Various  peasant 
and  trade  union  organizations,  with  the  tacit  support  of  many 
others,  including  middle-sector  business  people,  professionals,  and 
public-sector  employees,  as  well  as  certain  church  groups,  increased 
their  activities  and  demonstrations  in  support  of  reform.  The 
response  from  the  military-controlled  government  stressed  the  main- 
tenance of  public  order,  through  repression  if  necessary,  over  politi- 
cal change.  The  polarizing  effect  of  this  attitude  prompted  concerned 
pro-reform  military  officers  to  take  power  in  1979.  One  of  the  pri- 
orities of  the  junta  governments  that  followed  was  agrarian  reform 
(see  The  Reformist  Coup  of  1979,  ch.  1). 

Peasant  organizations  were  disorganized,  mainly  as  a  result  of 
violent  actions  directed  against  their  members  by  right-wing  groups, 
and  were  unable  to  exert  much  influence  on  the  junta  government 
at  the  time  of  the  original  agrarian  reform  decree  in  1980.  For  its 
part,  the  government  also  failed  to  consult  with  these  groups 
regarding  the  best  ways  to  proceed  in  such  an  undertaking.  Hav- 
ing the  most  to  lose  in  this  process,  the  majority  of  the  economic 
elite,  particularly  the  agrarian  and  financial  interests,  bitterly  op- 
posed such  measures  on  principle.  These  interests  had  opposed — 
and  successfully  defeated  in  the  planning  stage — several  earlier 
agrarian  reform  measures  suggested  by  previous  governments  (see 
The  1970s:  The  Road  to  Revolt,  ch.  1). 

The  overall  agrarian  reform  program  was  to  be  implemented 
in  three  phases,  only  the  first  of  which  achieved  any  effective  results. 
Phase  I  called  for  the  expropriation  of  all  landholdings  over  500 
hectares,  with  owners  allowed  to  keep  as  "reserve"  100  to  150  hect- 
ares, depending  on  land  quality,  in  order  to  continue  farming.  The 
government,  aided  by  the  army,  expropriated  over  230  estates,  com- 
prising 15  percent  of  El  Salvador's  farmland  (or  10  percent,  if 
reserve  lands  are  excluded).  This  included  14  percent  of  total  coffee 
land,  31  percent  of  cotton  land,  and  24  percent  of  sugarcane  land; 
over  60  percent  of  the  expropriated  holdings,  however,  were  pasture 
or  fallow  land,  including  forests  and  mountains  not  well  suited  to 
cultivation. 

The  expropriated  estates  were  not  subdivided,  but  were  turned 
into  cooperatives  run  by  a  hierarchy  of  skilled  managers  and  un- 
skilled laborers.  Under  this  arrangement,  little  changed  in  terms 
of  day-to-day  operations.  In  spite  of  the  communal  implications 
of  the  cooperative  concept,  the  traditional  social  hierarchy  of 
managers  and  unskilled  labor  remained.  In  many  cases,  the  same 
administrators,  who  still  had  strong  ties  with  previous  landlords 
and  their  interests,  gave  the  same  orders  to  the  same  workers,  who 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


saw  little  evidence  of  change  in  their  day-to-day  situation.  The 
former  landowners  initially  continued  to  derive  income  from 
production  on  the  cooperatives,  as  part  of  the  cooperatives'  profits 
went  to  an  agrarian  reform  fund  from  which  the  former  owners 
were  to  be  compensated.  In  addition,  because  the  former  land- 
owners could  retain  100  hectares,  they  were  often  able  to  keep  con- 
trol of  the  best  land  or  of  processing  facilities,  which,  if  necessary, 
could  be  reclassified  as  urban  properties.  Some  landowners  also 
had  sufficient  time  to  begin  to  decapitalize  their  farms.  Some  had 
removed  livestock  and  machinery;  others  had  slaughtered  cattle 
rather  than  transfer  them  to  the  newly  created  cooperatives.  These 
actions  significantly  reduced  the  value  of  the  cooperatives,  espe- 
cially considering  that  the  majority  of  land  affected  by  Phase  I  was 
pastureland. 

Since  the  members  of  the  cooperatives  included  only  the  few  full- 
time  workers  on  estates  at  the  time  of  expropriation,  which  took 
place  during  an  off-season  period  of  low  labor  needs,  Phase  I  did 
not  affect  the  majority  of  the  population  in  these  regions.  Similarly, 
because  the  expropriated  estates  were  located  in  the  coastal  plain 
and  central  valleys,  they  did  not  benefit  landless  peasants  in  the 
north  and  east.  Of  an  original  317  cooperatives,  22  had  been  aban- 
doned by  1987  as  a  result  of  inadequate  technical  and  credit  as- 
sistance from  the  government,  as  well  as  the  adverse  economic 
effects  of  the  civil  conflict. 

As  of  1987,  Phase  II  of  the  agrarian  reform  program  had  not 
been  implemented.  The  official  explanation  for  the  prolonged  in- 
action cited  shortcomings  in  administrative  expertise  and  finan- 
cial resources;  unofficially,  political  pressures  appeared  to  be  equally 
influential.  Phase  II  originally  called  for  expropriation  of  all  es- 
tates between  100  and  500  hectares  in  size.  Many  larger  landowners, 
sensing  that  land  reform  was  imminent,  had  previously  divided 
their  larger  estates  among  family  members,  and  their  holdings,  in- 
cluding many  coffee  estates,  now  fell  within  this  range. 

The  junta  governments'  failure  to  implement  Phase  II  allowed 
the  Constituent  Assembly  to  redefine  the  provisions  of  land  reform 
that  eventually  were  incorporated  into  the  Constitution  of  1983  (see 
The  Constitution  of  1983,  ch.  4).  The  assembly,  dominated  by 
representatives  of  conservative  political  parties,  raised  the  ceiling 
on  maximum  allowable  landholdings  from  100  to  245  hectares.  This 
had  the  effect  of  reducing  the  amount  of  land  available  for  redis- 
tribution from  about  72,400  hectares,  or  5  percent  of  Salvadoran 
farmland,  to  about  54,300  hectares,  or  3.7  percent  of  farmland. 
Owners  of  medium- sized  farms  had  been  prohibited  by  the  origi- 
nal 1980  reform  decree  from  selling  their  holdings;  the  assembly 


87 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

now  granted  these  owners  up  to  three  years  to  sell  their  excess  hold- 
ings to  peasants  or  peasant  associations.  This  provision  shifted  the 
onus  of  reallocation  of  land  from  the  government  to  the  landowners, 
thus  ameliorating  somewhat  the  problem  of  inadequate  government 
resources  for  this  purpose. 

Phase  III,  also  known  as  the  Land  to  the  Tiller  program,  man- 
dated that  ownership  of  land  that  was  leased,  rented,  or  share- 
cropped  would  be  transferred  to  the  tiller.  Implementation  of  this 
phase  was  slow  and  difficult.  If  fully  realized,  Phase  III  was  pro- 
jected to  involve  some  13.6  percent  of  farmland  and  some  1 17,000 
peasant  families.  Each  beneficiary  was  allowed  to  seek  title  to  no 
more  than  seven  hectares;  in  practice,  given  the  small  size  of  exist- 
ing rental  plots,  many  were  granted  title  to  plots  well  below  that 
size;  as  of  1987,  the  average  Phase  III  beneficiary  had  been  granted 
title  to  a  plot  of  less  than  two  hectares. 

By  mid-1987  only  56,188  potential  beneficiaries  had  applied  for 
title  to  79,142  parcels  of  land.  The  granting  of  definitive  titles  was 
hampered  by  bureaucratic  inefficiency  and  chronic  budget  short- 
falls, so  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of  claimants  were  forced 
to  continue  working  the  land  under  provisional  title.  The  failure 
to  grant  even  provisional  titles  to  the  remaining  60,000  or  so  poten- 
tial beneficiaries  was  attributed  in  part  to  the  inability  of  the  govern- 
ment to  contact  all  of  these  small  farmers.  Furthermore,  the 
seven-hectare  limit,  also  referred  to  as  the  retention  rule,  excluded 
some  12,000  beneficiaries  who  did  not  farm  their  land  directly  but 
were  landlords  of  smallholdings.  In  its  early  stages,  implementa- 
tion of  Phase  III  was  also  complicated  by  the  illegal  eviction  of 
peasants  by  landowners. 

Moreover,  the  involvement  of  army  personnel  in  the  implemen- 
tation of  agrarian  reform  led  to  an  upsurge  in  combat  between 
government  and  guerrilla  forces  in  the  countryside.  This  was  the 
case  particularly  in  the  northern  departments  of  Chalatenango, 
Morazan,  and  Cuscatlan,  where  there  were  few  privately  owned 
estates  but  where  rural  mass  organizations  were  influential.  The 
heightened  army  presence,  combined  with  population  dislocation, 
reportedly  contributed  to  increased  civil  unrest  in  these  areas. 

Revolutionary  Groups 

During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  some  of  the  population  sought 
expression  and  perhaps  eventual  redress  for  their  problems  by  be- 
coming involved  in  a  wide  variety  of  "mass  organizations"  (also 
known  as  popular  organizations),  such  as  those  included  in  the 
Revolutionary  Coordinator  of  the  Masses  (Coordinadora  Revolu- 
cionaria  de  las  Masas — CRM)  (see  The  Reformist  Coup  of  1979, 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ch.  1).  These  groups,  once  tens  of  thousands  strong,  were  heavily 
urban  oriented  and  included  a  range  of  trade  unionists,  teachers, 
clergy,  professionals,  students,  and  other  middle-class  and  urban 
lower-class  workers  interested  in  social  and  economic  reform.  The 
tactics  of  the  mass  organizations  included  strikes,  street  demon- 
strations, mass  rallies,  and  occupation  of  public  buildings  (churches, 
government  buildings,  and  embassies),  factories,  and  farms. 

In  the  countryside,  the  mass  organizations  found  some  support 
among  landless  campesinos  mainly  in  the  hills  around  the  cen- 
tral valleys  and  in  the  northern  mountains  (the  departments 
of  Chalatenango,  San  Salvador,  Cuscatlan,  Cabanas,  and  San 
Vicente).  Laborers  on  the  coastal  plain,  where  estate  owners  and 
administrators  exercised  greater  influence,  showed  less  enthusiasm 
for  the  mass  organizations. 

Whereas  some  of  the  rural  poor  hoped  to  exert  pressure  for 
change  through  participation  in  the  popular  organizations,  others 
joined  the  ranks  of  more  conservative,  officially  sanctioned  organi- 
zations. One  of  these,  the  Salvadoran  Communal  Union  (Union 
Comunal  Salvadorefia — UCS),  begun  in  1966,  sought  to  address 
the  needs  of  small  farmers  through  limited  programs  of  technical 
assistance  and  credit  facilities.  By  1980  the  UCS  claimed  100,000 
members. 

Another  peasant  organization,  the  Nationalist  Democratic  Or- 
ganization (Organizacion  Democratica  Nacionalista — Orden), 
claimed  as  many  as  100,000  members  in  the  late  1970s.  Established 
in  the  1960s  under  military  rule,  Orden  had  close  ties  to  the  GN 
(see  The  Security  Forces,  ch.  5).  In  return  for  cooperation  with 
the  GN  in  areas  such  as  intelligence  and  civil  defense,  members 
of  Orden  were  eligible  for  benefits  such  as  favorable  credit  terms 
on  government  agricultural  loans,  priority  consideration  for  per- 
manent estate  jobs,  and  employment  on  public  works  project.  Orden 
was  disbanded  officially  by  a  decree  of  the  first  1979  junta  govern- 
ment, but  some  observers  believed  that  it  continued  to  function 
unofficially  after  that  date. 

In  the  1970s,  activists  from  mass  organizations  joined  the  ranks 
of  various  guerrilla  organizations  (see  The  1970s:  The  Road  to 
Revolt,  ch.  1;  Left-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  Guerrilla  member- 
ship was  diverse  and  included  trade  unionists,  students,  teachers, 
other  disaffected  members  of  the  middle  class,  urban  workers,  and 
peasants. 

In  early  1981 ,  Salvadoran  guerrilla  groups  who  were  united  under 
the  banner  of  the  FMLN  estimated  that  they  controlled  10  per- 
cent of  Salvadoran  territory.  By  1983  the  FMLN's  claims  had  risen 
to  30  percent.  Although  guerrilla  forces  exerted  influence  over 


89 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

certain  areas,  they  had  not  achieved  control  in  the  sense  of  being 
able  to  secure  territory  against  concerted  efforts,  usually  "sweeps" 
by  at  least  battalion-sized  units,  by  government  forces  to  reestab- 
lish access.  Generally,  the  guerrilla  movement  was  most  active  to 
the  north  and  to  the  east  of  the  Rio  Lempa,  in  the  departments 
of  Chalatenango,  Cabanas,  Morazan,  Cuscatlan,  San  Vicente,  and 
Usulutan.  Guerrilla  activities  were  less  frequent  in  the  more  af- 
fluent western  half  of  the  country,  roughly  to  the  west  of  the  Rio 
Lempa. 

From  the  guerrilla  perspective,  El  Salvador  was  seen  as  divided 
into  three  different  "fields  of  struggle"  depending  on  the  nature 
of  their  activities  there.  The  "liberated  areas"  or  "zones  of  con- 
trol, ' '  in  the  north  and  east,  were  areas  where  communications  with 
the  rest  of  the  country  had  been  cut  off,  where  the  government 
and  the  military  had  not  established  a  permanent  presence,  and 
where  strings  of  guerrilla  camps  exerted  influence  over  the  local 
population.  The  so-called  "disputed"  areas  in  the  central  part  of 
the  country  were  contested  by  guerrilla  forces  living  among  the  rural 
population  and  by  government  forces  stationed  in  towns.  The  third 
area,  the  cities,  experienced  comparatively  little  open  antigovern- 
ment  violence,  although  sporadic  terrorist  actions  by  both  rightist 
and  leftist  groups  persisted  after  the  mid-1970s  (see  Threats  to 
Internal  Security,  ch.  5). 

In  the  isolated  "zones  of  control,"  as  in  other  rural  areas,  ameni- 
ties were  few:  no  electricity,  water  taken  from  streams  and  springs, 
and  no  sanitation  facilities.  Agricultural  production  on  family  plots 
and  collective  farms  provided  food  for  guerrilla  combatants  as  well 
as  for  local  residents.  According  to  sympathetic  foreign  observers, 
the  guerrillas  provided  some  social  services,  including  at  least 
rudimentary  medical  care,  using  both  modern  and  traditional  herbal 
methods,  and  education  programs.  Although  supplies  were  either 
limited  or  nonexistent,  literacy  programs  for  all  ages,  using  sticks 
to  scratch  in  the  earth  in  lieu  of  pens  and  paper,  and  education 
in  first  aid  and  basic  sanitation  measures  were  conducted.  These 
courses  served  to  provide  basic  education  to  a  largely  illiterate  popu- 
lation and  to  prepare  them  to  provide  medical  and  logistical  sup- 
port to  FMLN  combatants.  Town  meetings  were  held  to  discuss 
issues  of  local  concern  and  to  elect  councils  with  representatives 
responsible  for  agriculture,  health,  education,  and  information.  Re- 
ligious activities  compatible  with  the  tenets  of  liberation  theology 
(see  Glossary)  were  encouraged.  Security  and  early  warning  of 
armed  forces  operations  in  the  area  were  provided  by  local  militia 
drawn  from  the  pool  of  younger  residents. 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Another  aspect  of  the  guerrillas'  ideology  stressed  equality  for 
women  as  comrades  in  the  political-military  struggle.  This,  in  many 
cases,  represented  a  considerable  and  sometimes  difficult  adjust- 
ment for  people  from  a  culture  that  placed  an  exceptionally  strong 
value  on  machismo,  where  women  traditionally  were  regarded  as 
inferior.  Discrimination  against  women  was  further  reinforced  in 
Salvadoran  rural  life,  particularly  in  the  area  of  labor.  Govern- 
ment wage  scales  either  excluded  women  from  permanent  labor 
positions;  set  a  lower  minimum  wage  for  women,  along  with  boys 
under  sixteen  and  the  handicapped;  or  did  not  pay  women  at  all 
if  they  worked  in  a  man's  crew.  Educational  opportunities  for  girls 
were  also  more  limited  because  of  the  need  for  their  assistance  at 
home  at  an  early  age.  In  territory  influenced  by  the  guerrillas, 
however,  some  observers  reported  that  wife-beating  was  dis- 
couraged, an  effort  was  made  to  assign  tasks  more  equitably,  and 
men  were  taught  to  view  women  as  companeras  (comrades).  Thus, 
men  might  cook  and  wash  clothes,  while  women  fought,  or  directed 
development  projects,  or  did  construction  work.  In  fact,  40  per- 
cent of  leadership  and  30  percent  of  combatant  roles  were  filled 
by  women  in  guerrilla  zones.  Yet  even  in  these  communities,  there 
were  limits  to  change;  tortilla-making,  for  example,  remained  a 
female  task. 

The  Role  of  Religion 

As  a  Hispanic  country,  El  Salvador  has  always  had  a  strong 
Roman  Catholic  identity.  The  majority  of  Salvadorans  in  the  late 
1980s  were  at  least  nominal  Roman  Catholics,  and  church  rituals 
permeated  the  nation's  culture  and  society.  Church  attendance, 
especially  for  women,  remained  important,  church  sacraments  and 
ceremonies  such  as  baptism  and  confirmation  were  observed,  and 
fiestas  were  held  to  celebrate  patron  saints  of  villages,  towns,  and 
cities.  Nevertheless,  El  Salvador  tended  to  be  somewhat  more  secu- 
lar than  its  Central  American  neighbors.  Birth  control  programs 
introduced  in  the  late  1 960s  met  with  less  opposition  than  elsewhere 
in  Latin  America.  Marriage — in  a  religious  or  civil  ceremony — 
was  not  as  prevalent  in  El  Salvador  as  in  many  other  Latin  Ameri- 
can countries  (this  situation  also  reflected  the  strain  exerted  on  so- 
cial institutions  by  persistent  poverty);  many  Salvadoran  couples, 
especially  in  rural  areas,  lived  together  in  common-law  or  free 
unions,  many  families  were  headed  by  women,  and  many  children 
were  born  out  of  wedlock.  Lastly,  the  ritual  kinship  practice  of  com- 
padrazgo  (selecting  godparents  for  children)  was  becoming  less 
widespread  and  less  important  in  El  Salvador. 


91 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Although  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  as  typified  by  its  hier- 
archy, was  conservative  in  its  approach  to  doctrine,  a  strain  of 
reformist  Catholicism  called  "social  Christianity"  emerged  in  El 
Salvador,  as  elsewhere  in  Latin  America,  in  the  1930s  in  response 
to  the  hardships,  uprisings,  and  repressions  of  that  period.  Social 
Christianity,  which  continued  to  have  some  appeal  until  the  early 
1960s,  stressed  the  duty  of  lay  persons  to  remedy  social  ills  without 
waiting  for  the  religious  hierarchy,  represented  by  its  priests,  to 
act.  Although  this  movement  did  not  advocate  change  in  the  basic 
social  and  political  structure  of  the  country,  it  called  for  improve- 
ments by  working  within  the  existing  political  order. 

At  least  one  influential  individual  at  the  top  of  the  social  and 
religious  pyramid  recognized  and  encouraged  the  need  for  improve- 
ments in  the  lives  of  those  in  the  lower  sector — the  archbishop  of 
San  Salvador,  Luis  Chavez  y  Gonzalez,  who  held  this  position  from 
1939  to  1977.  Archbishop  Chavez  encouraged  the  priesthood  as 
a  vocation;  built  a  seminary  in  San  Salvador;  established  the  Pius 
XII  Institute,  organized  particularly  to  teach  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church's  social  doctrine;  and  sent  priests  to  study  in  Europe.  It 
is  also  noteworthy  that  these  Salvadoran  priests  came  mainly  from 
rural  families,  albeit  fairly  well-to-do  ones,  rather  than  from  the 
urban  middle  class,  and  hence  had  closer  ties  to  the  peasantry.  It 
is  significant  too  that  even  in  the  early  1950s  Chavez  encouraged 
cooperatives  as  alternatives  for  peasants  losing  land  to  agribusi- 
ness expansion  and  that  he  sent  priests  to  Canada  to  study  cooper- 
atives. In  this  sense,  he  presaged  the  communitarianism  later 
advocated  by  the  Salvadoran  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido 
Democrata  C  ristiano — PDC ) . 

In  the  late  1960s,  the  social  attitudes  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  in  El  Salvador,  as  elsewhere,  were  deeply  influenced  by 
Vatican  Council  II  (in  1965)  and  the  social  encyclicals  of  Pope  John 
XXIII,  as  well  as  by  the  Second  Latin  American  Bishops'  Con- 
ference held  in  Medellm,  Colombia,  in  1968,  which  addressed  the 
issues  of  Vatican  II  from  a  distinctly  Latin  American  perspective. 
These  gatherings,  particularly  the  Medellm  conference,  empha- 
sized the  need  for  a  more  worldly  involvement  by  the  Roman 
Catholic  clergy  with  the  lives  and  problems  of  parishioners  and 
advocated  activist  programs  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  the 
lower  class.  This  "preferential  option  for  the  poor"  was  the  germ 
of  what  later  came  to  be  known  as  "liberation  theology."  The 
church  increased  and  encouraged  involvement  in  programs  for 
change  after  the  Medellm  conference,  even  if  this  involvement 
entailed  secular  political  advocacy. 


92 


Church  of  the  Virgin 
of  Guadalupe, 
San  Salvador 


Toward  this  end,  activist  clergy  and  laity  created  grass-roots 
Christian  Base  Communities  (Comunidades  Eclesiasticas  de 
Base — CEBs)  to  work  toward  their  conception  of  social  justice;  these 
groups  encouraged  church  members  to  take  the  initiative  in  seek- 
ing social  and  political  change  and  to  act  more  independently  of 
the  church  hierarchy,  if  necessary,  to  achieve  their  goals.  In  short, 
in  contrast  to  the  earlier  social  Christianity,  where  change  was  to 
be  effected  within  the  existing  social  and  political  order,  liberation 
theology  called  for  changes  in  social  and  political  structures  and 
encouraged  the  laity  to  take  an  active  role  in  bringing  them  about. 
In  El  Salvador,  the  social  concerns  of  Archbishop  Chavez  helped 
pave  the  way  for  later  advocates  of  liberation  theology  and,  in  a 
way,  linked  this  broad  Latin  American  movement  of  the  1970s  with 
the  social  Christian  movements  of  the  prior  decades. 

A  number  of  rural  communities  were  receptive  to  the  teachings 
and  methods  of  the  base  communities.  Generally,  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  CEBs  involved  a  priest  or  a  trained  religious  worker 
who  met  with  twenty  to  thirty  local  parishioners  for  a  few  weeks. 
As  this  group  met  to  study  and  discuss  selected  passages  from  the 
Bible  and  plan  community  activities,  lay  leaders  were  encouraged 
to  emerge,  and  the  group  was  taught  to  appreciate  and  emphasize 
the  role  of  laypersons  like  themselves  in  social  change.  They  dis- 
cussed the  earthly  social,  economic,  and  political  reasons  for  their 
plight  as  poor  peasants  and  laborers  and  were  taught  by  priests 


93 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

and  lay  workers  that  the  poor  were  equal  before  God  with  the  rich 
landowners.  During  the  1970s,  some  15,000  local  lay  leaders,  cate- 
chists  or  delegates,  underwent  further  training  at  seven  centers  set 
up  throughout  the  country,  studying  the  Bible,  liturgy,  agricul- 
ture, cooperativism,  leadership,  and  health,  all  in  preparation  for 
their  roles  as  religious,  social,  and  political  leaders  in  community 
development  efforts.  The  role  of  local  lay  preachers  and  leaders 
also  reflected  the  high  ratio  of  laity  to  priests  in  El  Salvador,  which 
at  that  time  was  approximately  10,000  to  1. 

The  CEBs  soon  encountered  harassment  and  hostility,  appar- 
ently emanating  from  the  economic  and  political  elite.  By  the  late 
1970s,  violence  by  right-wing  groups  was  directed  against  mem- 
bers of  the  priesthood  and  other  church  workers  known  to  be  sym- 
pathetic to  the  CEBs  on  the  grounds  that  assisting  the  poor 
constituted  subversive  activity.  As  civil  unrest  in  general  increased 
in  the  late  1970s,  the  church  as  a  whole  became  increasingly  polar- 
ized. The  majority  of  the  bishops  supported  the  traditional  role 
of  the  church,  the  traditional  authority  of  the  hierarchy,  and  the 
overriding  authority  of  the  government.  Allied  against  this  view 
was  a  faction  of  parish  priests  who  favored  the  development  of  the 
CEBs  and  advocated  expanded  aid  for  the  poor. 

Once  again,  the  position  of  the  archbishop  became  crucial.  In 
1977  Archbishop  Chavez  resigned  and  was  replaced  by  Monsig- 
nor  Oscar  Arnulfo  Romero  y  Galdamez.  Like  his  predecessor, 
Archbishop  Romero  spoke  out  publicly  in  favor  of  social  justice 
for  the  general  populace.  He  increasingly  assumed  the  role  of  the 
leading  advocate  on  behalf  of  the  poor;  his  primary  vehicles  for 
expressing  these  views  were  his  weekly  Sunday  morning  homilies, 
broadcast  throughout  the  nation  and  eagerly  listened  to  on  porta- 
ble radios  or  the  ubiquitous  village  loudspeakers  in  the  plazas.  As 
political  tensions  rose,  the  influential  position  and  strong  impact 
of  the  outspoken  archbishop  became  intolerable  to  the  Salvadoran 
right,  and  Romero  was  assassinated  one  Monday  in  March  1980 
while  saying  mass. 

Violence  against  grass-roots  church  activities  continued  during 
the  early  1980s,  with  telling  effect.  The  number  of  active  priests 
declined,  so  that  40  percent  of  rural  parishes  lacked  priests,  and 
many  CEBs  were  dismantled  or  forced  underground.  Of  the  15,000 
lay  leaders  active  in  CEBs,  some  joined  the  guerrillas,  while  others 
withdrew  from  church  activities  altogether.  Monsignor  Arturo 
Rivera  y  Damas,  appointed  archbishop  after  Romero's  murder, 
found  it  appropriate  to  take  a  more  distant  or  ambivalent  position 
with  respect  to  the  question  of  the  proper  role  of  the  church  in  Sal- 
vadoran national  life,  a  position  that  also  accorded  more  closely 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


with  the  conservative  attitude  of  the  Vatican  under  Pope  John  Paul 
II.  Meanwhile,  although  the  church  proper  now  lowered  its  pub- 
lic profile,  a  small,  quasi-independent  "people's  church"  emerged 
from  the  remnants  of  the  CEB  movement.  Some  priests,  mainly 
Jesuits,  continued  to  work  in  guerrilla-controlled  areas,  where  the 
social  and  political  importance  of  organized  communities  among 
the  poor  continued  to  be  emphasized. 

Protestant  missionaries  were  quite  active  in  El  Salvador,  the 
majority  representing  the  evangelical  branch  of  North  Amer- 
ican Protestantism.  Evangelical  activity  was  a  multinational, 
multimillion-dollar  enterprise  developed  and  packaged  in  the  United 
States,  translated  into  Spanish,  and  exported  not  only  to  El  Sal- 
vador but  also  to  the  other  countries  of  Central  America.  Mission- 
aries working  for  scores  of  organizations  used  crusades,  door-to-door 
proselytizing,  radio  programs,  food  aid,  and  health  care  to  advance 
their  fundamentalist  message  of  personal  salvation  through  belief 
in  Jesus,  a  salvation  not  to  be  gained  in  this  world  but  in  the  after- 
life. To  these  theologically  conservative  evangelicals,  Roman 
Catholics  were  not  Christians;  only  the  "born-again"  were  God's 
chosen  people,  and  efforts  to  achieve  social  gains  by  working  for 
change  in  this  life  were  inappropriate.  Although  "mainline" 
Protestant  denominations  encouraged  expressions  of  concern  over 
social  problems,  the  brand  of  evangelical  Protestantism  that  swept 
Central  America  in  the  1970s  and  1980s  sought  to  remove  its  ad- 
herents from  social  action,  to  place  the  onus  on  God  rather  than 
on  humans  to  act,  and  to  inculcate  passive,  apathetic,  and  sub- 
missive resignation  while  waiting  for  the  second  coming  of  Christ. 
Put  more  bluntly,  the  thought  of  future  salvation  would  cushion 
the  impact  of  current  suffering. 

Protestantism  was  by  no  means  new  to  Central  America  or  to 
El  Salvador.  In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  the  majority  of  Bri- 
tish and  German  immigrants,  including  coffee  traders  and  finan- 
ciers, were  Protestants.  In  1896  the  aggressive  Central  American 
Mission  (CAM),  headquartered  in  North  America  and  financed 
by  North  Americans,  was  established  in  El  Salvador  and  Guate- 
mala. The  primary  message  of  the  CAM  was  that  the  sad  state 
of  the  world  was  a  necessary  and  predestined  situation  heralding 
the  imminence  of  the  second  coming.  In  later  years,  the  Seventh- 
Day  Adventists,  the  Assemblies  of  God,  and  others  joined  the  grow- 
ing missionary  movement  in  Central  America. 

Protestantism  continued  to  grow  steadily  in  El  Salvador,  par- 
ticularly during  the  economic  depression  and  political  repression 
of  the  1930s.  The  annual  growth  rate  of  the  Protestant  commun- 
ity in  the  country  stood  at  9  percent  between  1930  and  1945  but 


95 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

dropped  to  7  percent  between  1945  and  1960.  A  dramatic  resur- 
gence appeared  in  the  1970s  with  an  average  annual  rate  of  Pro- 
testant conversion  of  1 1  percent.  Some  observers  have  attributed 
this  impressive  growth  to  a  rejection  of  politicized  social  activism 
as  exemplified  by  liberation  theology.  Others  have  interpreted  the 
high  rate  of  Protestant  conversion  as  a  withdrawal  from  the  vio- 
lence and  instability  of  Salvadoran  life  in  the  late  1970s  and  1980s. 

Furthermore,  the  popularity  of  evangelical  Protestantism  seems 
to  have  correlated  with  the  intensity  and  nature  of  population  dis- 
placement. As  the  number  of  land-poor  laborers  grew  and  migrant 
labor  increased,  and  as  the  bonds  of  community,  extended  fam- 
ily, and  tradition  were  broken  for  many,  traditional  Catholicism 
was  unable  to  fill  the  personal  sense  of  emotional  loss  and  lack  of 
direction.  This  was  particularly  true  because  the  number  of  priests 
and  clerics  was  small.  Protestantism,  however,  offered  a  personalis- 
tic  message  of  Jesus'  acceptance  of  the  individual,  emphasized  each 
individual's  direct  relationship  to  God  unmediated  by  a  hierarchi- 
cal clergy,  and  held  out  hope  that  sustained  even  desperately  poor 
people  with  a  sense  of  self- worth  in  the  face  of  violence,  displace- 
ment, and  misery. 

The  elite  found  an  ideological  ally  in  this  brand  of  Protestantism, 
not  only  for  its  apolitical  approach  but  also  for  its  laissez-faire,  en- 
trepreneurial, work-oriented  values  and  its  willingness  to  minimize 
the  responsibility  of  the  existing  system  for  the  nation's  ills.  Elites 
thus  gladly  supported  evangelizing  efforts  on  their  landed  estates, 
and  significant  numbers  of  upper-class  Salvadorans  converted  to 
Protestantism. 

*    *  * 

The  political  events  of  the  late  1970s  and  1980s  have  given  rise 
to  a  considerable  number  of  readily  available  books,  articles,  and 
newspaper  accounts  detailing  the  conditions  of  life  in  El  Salvador. 
An  excellent  introduction  to  both  historical  and  current  economic, 
political,  and  especially  social  conditions  in  El  Salvador  can  be  found 
in  Philip  L.  Russell's  El  Salvador  in  Crisis  and  in  Alastair  White's 
El  Salvador.  El  Salvador:  The  Face  of  Revolution  by  Robert  Armstrong 
and  Janet  Shenk  also  provides  an  impassioned  and  readable  account 
of  the  social  and  economic  conditions  underlying  the  civil  war.  Mar- 
gin of  Life  by  Cornell  Capa  and  J.  Mayone  Stycos  presents  evoca- 
tive photography  and  text  illustrating  the  often  harsh  reality  of 
everyday  life  for  the  impoverished  majority  living  in  both  urban 
and  rural  settings  in  El  Salvador  and  Honduras. 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


On  more  specific  issues,  Phillip  Berryman's  The  Religious  Roots 
of  Rebellion  discusses  the  background  to  liberation  theology  in  Latin 
America  and  the  specific  role  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  in 
El  Salvador.  Articles  in  NACLA  Report  on  the  Americas  by  the  North 
American  Congress  on  Latin  America  present  an  overview  of  the 
activities  and  theology  of  Protestant  missions  in  Central  America. 
Also  recommended  for  general  reading  is  Part  I  of  Enrique  A. 
Baloyra's  El  Salvador  in  Transition,  which  contains  a  helpful  over- 
view of  the  nature  of  the  military  government  and  the  oligar- 
chical elite  within  a  socioeconomic  context.  A.  Douglas  Kincaid's 
"Peasants  into  Rebels:  Community  and  Class  in  Rural  El  Sal- 
vador" analyzes  the  significance  of  community  solidarity  as  a  fac- 
tor in  the  history  of  social  unrest  in  El  Salvador.  "Agrarian  Reform 
in  El  Salvador"  by  David  Browning  provides  an  excellent  over- 
view of  the  social,  political,  and  economic  contexts  of  agrarian  re- 
form, and  Robert  G.  Williams's  Export  Agriculture  and  the  Crisis  in 
Central  America  is  highly  recommended  as  a  very  readable  account 
of  the  economic  and  social  conditions  underlying  political  insta- 
bility in  Central  America  in  general.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


97 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Farm  worker  drying  coffee 


UNTIL  THE  GOVERNMENT  IMPLEMENTED  a  major  land 
reform  in  1980,  the  most  notable  characteristic  of  El  Salvador's 
economic  structure  was  the  unequal  distribution  of  landownership. 
The  economy  was  dominated  by  a  few  large  plantations  that 
produced  cash  crops,  especially  coffee,  for  export.  The  slow  and 
difficult  implementation  of  a  sweeping  three-phase  land  reform  be- 
gun in  1980,  however,  considerably  altered  the  pattern  of  unequal 
landownership. 

El  Salvador's  economic  development  in  the  1980s  was  hindered 
by  a  resource  drain  caused  by  the  country's  civil  conflict,  natural 
disasters,  a  lack  of  economic  expertise,  and  adverse  changes  in  the 
terms  of  trade  (see  Glossary).  Consequently,  by  1987  El  Salvador's 
economic  output  barely  equaled  80  percent  of  its  1978  level,  and 
exports  were  only  the  third  most  important  source  of  foreign  ex- 
change after  foreign  aid  and  remittances  from  Salvadorans  living 
abroad.  The  most  damaging  of  these  factors  was  the  civil  conflict, 
particularly  its  impact  on  the  country's  infrastructure.  By  mid- 198 7 
observers  estimated  that  the  total  cost  to  the  economy  based  on 
lost  agricultural  production,  damaged  infrastructure,  and  funds 
diverted  from  economic  to  military  purposes  was  about  US$1.5 
billion. 

El  Salvador  entered  the  1970s  as  a  relatively  poor  middle-income 
country  with  per  capita  income  greater  than  that  of  Thailand  and 
slightly  less  than  that  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  (South  Korea), 
Malaysia,  and  Costa  Rica.  Its  overall  level  of  development  was 
roughly  comparable  to  these  countries  as  well,  judging  by  such 
indicators  as  industrial  contribution  to  the  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary),  life  expectancy,  the  cost  of  labor,  and  per 
capita  income.  El  Salvador  had  one  other  important  characteristic 
in  common  with  these  other  four  countries — a  hard-working, 
productive,  and  motivated  labor  force.  El  Salvador's  annual  rate 
of  investment  growth  (3.5  percent),  however,  lagged  substantially 
behind  the  other  four  during  the  1960s.  During  this  decade,  gross 
investment  grew  annually  by  24  percent  in  South  Korea,  16  per- 
cent in  Thailand,  7.5  percent  in  Malaysia,  and  7.1  percent  in  Costa 
Rica.  El  Salvador's  inferior  rate  of  investment  growth  continued 
and  in  some  cases  widened  during  the  1970s. 

By  1982  Salvadoran  development  had  fallen  far  behind  that  of 
South  Korea,  Malaysia,  Thailand,  and  even  Costa  Rica.  Indus- 
trial production  hovered  around  20  percent  of  GDP,  whereas  in 


101 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

the  other  countries  it  accounted  for  between  27  percent  (Costa  Rica) 
and  40  percent  (South  Korea).  Salvadoran  per  capita  income  fell 
to  about  a  third  of  South  Korea's  and  Malaysia's,  half  of  Costa 
Rica's,  and  15  percent  below  that  of  Thailand.  Making  matters 
worse,  El  Salvador's  terms  of  trade  had  deteriorated  much  more 
rapidly  than  had  those  of  the  other  countries. 

Between  1982  and  1986,  El  Salvador  fell  even  farther  behind 
as  it  failed  to  diversify  its  exports  away  from  agricultural  commodi- 
ties and  into  manufactured  goods.  In  1986  per  capita  GDP  was 
almost  half  its  level  of  1977,  and  the  country  entered  a  period  of 
disinvestment.  As  other  middle-income  countries  appeared  to  be 
taking  off,  El  Salvador  was  regressing. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

El  Salvador's  economy  has  always  been  highly  dependent  on  a 
single  agricultural  export  commodity.  Following  independence, 
indigo  was  the  most  important  commodity  to  the  Salvadoran  econ- 
omy and  represented  most  of  the  country's  exports.  In  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century,  however,  indigo  was  replaced  in  the  Europe- 
an and  North  American  markets  by  artificial  dyes.  Consequently, 
indigo  producers  were  forced  to  seek  alternative  commodities  that 
would  permit  them  to  maintain  their  level  of  earnings.  Fortunately 
for  El  Salvador's  wealthier  landowners,  the  decline  of  indigo  was 
concurrent  with  the  rise  in  world  demand  for  another  crop  that 
thrives  in  tropical  climates — coffee.  The  coffee  export  sector  domi- 
nated the  Salvadoran  economy  by  the  1870s. 

During  the  1950s  and  1960s,  coffee  export  earnings  helped  fuel 
the  expansion  of  cotton  and  sugar  cultivation  (which  subsequently 
became  the  country's  second  and  third  most  important  export  crops, 
respectively)  and  financed  the  development  of  light  manufactur- 
ing. In  fact,  in  the  years  immediately  following  the  Revolution  of 
1948,  which  reduced  the  direct  political  influence  of  the  coffee  inter- 
ests, the  taxes  on  coffee  exports  were  increased  tenfold  in  order 
to  finance  industrialization.  These  funds  were  used  to  develop  the 
country's  transportation  infrastructure  and  electricity  generation 
capabilities. 

Light  manufacturing  developed  rapidly  in  El  Salvador  during 
the  1960s,  largely  as  a  result  of  the  establishment  of  the  Central 
American  Common  Market  (CACM — see  Glossary).  E]  Salvador's 
industrial  development  hitherto  had  been  hindered  by  the  absence 
of  a  domestic  market  for  these  goods.  The  small  class  of  wealthy 
landowners  generally  preferred  high-quality  imports,  while  the  large 
lower  class  lacked  the  disposable  income  to  buy  most  manufactured 
goods.  The  CACM,  however,  improved  this  situation  by  expanding 


102 


103 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

the  market  for  Salvadoran  goods  through  the  elimination  of  intra- 
regional  trade  barriers.  As  a  result,  the  manufactured  goods 
produced  in  El  Salvador  became  more  competitive  in  Honduras 
than  those  from  the  United  States  or  other  non-Central  American 
countries.  The  CACM- stimulated  industrial  growth  never  threat- 
ened the  predominance  of  coffee  production  within  the  Salvadoran 
economy,  however.  Moreover,  the  stimulus  proved  to  be  short  lived 
because  the  CACM  broke  down  in  the  1970s. 

The  civil  conflict  and  the  disincentives  inherent  in  some  govern- 
ment policies  disrupted  coffee,  sugar,  and  cotton  production  dur- 
ing the  1980s,  resulting  in  a  general  lack  of  dynamism  in  the 
Salvadoran  economy  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  GDP  increased  at 
a  4.3  percent  annual  rate  between  1965  and  1978  but,  reflecting 
the  effects  of  civil  unrest,  declined  by  23  percent  between  1979  and 
1982.  The  economy  modestly  expanded  between  1983  and  1986, 
with  average  annual  growth  rates  of  about  1.5  percent.  The  coun- 
try's total  GDP  equaled  approximately  US$4.6  billion  in  1986.  Real 
per  capita  GDP  was  approximately  US$938. 

During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  gross  capital  formation  increased 
by  an  impressive  6.6  percent  annual  rate,  reflecting  investor  con- 
fidence and  the  positive  effects  of  the  CACM.  Between  1980  and 

1986,  however,  as  investors  reacted  to  the  instability  caused  by  the 
civil  conflict,  depreciation  outstripped  investment  at  an  annual  rate 
of  0.8  percent.  Private  outflows  of  capital  slowed  in  1987,  result- 
ing in  a  less  drastic  capital  account  deficit  of  US$34  million,  less 
than  a  quarter  of  the  outflow  registered  in  1986. 

El  Salvador's  economy  expanded  an  estimated  2.5  percent  in 

1987,  representing  the  largest  single-year  gain  since  1978.  This 
moderate  improvement  in  the  country's  overall  economic  activity 
was  primarily  the  result  of  a  modest  rebound  in  agricultural  out- 
put and  a  substantial  reactivation  of  construction  activity  led  by 
the  private  sector.  Gains  in  construction  investment  reflected  efforts 
to  replace  structures  damaged  in  the  1986  earthquake,  which  caused 
an  estimated  US$1  billion  in  damage  to  the  country's  buildings 
and  infrastructure.  Two  additional  sources  of  growth  were  trans- 
fer receipts  (mostly  from  Salvadorans  working  in  the  United  States) 
and  official  grants  from  the  United  States  government.  In  1987 
net  private  transfers,  or  transfer  receipts,  accounted  for  over  4  per- 
cent of  GDP,  while  grants  or  official  transfers  from  the  United  States 
government  represented  5  percent. 

Although  1987  was  the  Salvadoran  economy's  most  positive  year 
since  the  beginning  of  the  civil  conflict,  attempts  to  measure  and 
judge  the  economy's  health  should  compare  the  country's  economic 
performance  in  1987  with  its  most  recent  economic  peak  in  1978. 


104 


The  Economy 


Using  this  method  to  evaluate  El  Salvador's  economy  casts  a  less 
favorable  light  than  the  alternative  year-to-year  measurement. 
Although  El  Salvador's  economy  grew  rapidly  in  1987  compared 
with  other  years  in  the  1980s,  real  income  was  still  almost  20  per- 
cent below  its  1978  level. 

One  important  but  ominous  indicator  of  future  economic  health 
was  the  low  level  of  gross  fixed  capital  formation  in  1987,  which 
remained  substantially  below  the  levels  necessary  to  expand  produc- 
tion capacity  and  generate  productivity  gains.  Gross  fixed  capital 
formation,  14  percent  of  GDP  in  1987,  was  at  a  level  significantly 
below  those  experienced  in  the  1960s  and  1970s. 

Consumption  expenditures  increased  by  less  than  1  percent  in 
1987,  primarily  because  of  an  8.7  percent  drop  in  general  govern- 
ment expenditures.  Because  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary)  supervised  the  economic  stabilization  pro- 
gram, the  government  was  obligated  to  reduce  its  budget  deficit. 
Also,  because  revenue  sources  consistently  failed  to  close  the  gap 
between  expenditures  and  revenues,  the  government  was  forced 
to  reduce  consumption  expenditures  in  1987. 

Income  Distribution 

Moderate  economic  growth  in  1987  did  not  make  up  for  the  un- 
even income  distribution  in  El  Salvador.  Poorer  segments  of  the 
population  did  not  share  in  the  modest  gains  of  the  economy  in 
1987.  In  the  agricultural  sector,  for  example,  the  minimum  wage 
remained  unchanged  at  c8  (for  value  of  the  colon — see  Glossary) 
per  eight-hour  day;  at  the  same  time,  inflation,  as  measured  by 
the  consumer  price  index,  rose  by  27  percent  during  the  first  half 
of  1987.  Real  wages  in  both  the  private  and  the  public  sectors  con- 
tinued their  precipitous  descent  to  13.3  percent  in  1987.  In  1987 
private  sector  monthly  wages  averaged  approximately  c889. 
Although  no  current  measure  of  income  distribution  was  availa- 
ble in  mid- 1988,  the  combination  of  negative  wage  gains  and  posi- 
tive aggregate  growth  implied  a  worsening  of  income  distribution 
between  employers  and  labor. 

Sectors  of  the  Economy 

An  examination  of  GDP  by  sector  confirmed  that,  despite  a 
modest  recovery  in  1987,  El  Salvador's  economy  was  still  vulner- 
able. Even  though  most  sectors  showed  some  growth  in  1987,  all 
registered  below  their  1978  or  1979  peaks. 

Thanks  to  improved  weather  conditions,  the  agricultural  sector 
recovered  in  1987  from  its  1986  decline,  rising  3.1  percent,  which 
merely  erased  the  sector's  3.1  percent  loss  in  1986.  The  importance 


105 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


GDP,  1986  =  US$4.6  billion 

Other  6.7% 


Services 
(Transport, 

Utilities, 
Commerce, 
Government, 
and  Finance) 
48.7% 


Agriculture 
24% 


Industry 
(Manufacturing, 
Mining,  and 
Construction) 
20.6% 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Guatema- 
la, El  Salvador,  Honduras,  No.  3,  London,  1988,  3. 

Figure  5.  Estimated  Gross  Domestic  Product  by  Sector,  1986 


of  the  agricultural  sector,  particularly  coffee,  in  the  economy  can- 
not be  overemphasized.  In  1987,  for  example,  despite  a  decrease 
in  coffee  production  value  attributable  to  lower  international  coffee 
prices,  coffee  still  represented  approximately  7  percent  of  GDP, 
30  percent  of  agricultural  output,  and  60  percent  of  total  exports. 
Coffee  production  recovered  substantially,  about  6  percent,  in  1987 
as  a  result  of  improved  weather  conditions  and  increased  use  of 
fertilizers.  Fortunately,  because  most  coffee  was  grown  in  the 
western  part  of  the  country,  away  from  the  civil  conflict,  produc- 
tion was  unaffected  (see  fig.  5). 

Analysts  believed  that  in  the  future  the  fate  of  El  Salvador's  coffee 
earnings  would  depend  on  both  producer  prices  and  government- 
imposed  price  or  exchange  controls.  According  to  some  estimates, 
producer  prices  might  eventually  decline  to  levels  at  or  below  the 
average  cost  of  production.  Such  a  decline  in  prices  could  have  cata- 
strophic consequences  for  the  country  in  both  the  short  term  and 
the  long  term.  A  decline  in  coffee  prices  would  limit  the  country's 
ability  to  earn  foreign  exchange,  resulting  in  foreign  exchange  allo- 
cation problems.  Foreign  currency  shortages  would  then  exert  up- 
ward pressure  on  prices.  Unprofitable  production  could  impede 
further  investment  in  coffee  production  and  eventually  reduce  the 
coffee  industry's  capacity  to  generate  export  surpluses. 


106 


The  Economy 


Government  policies  had  a  major  impact  on  the  profitability  of 
coffee  production.  Price  controls  and  exchange  rate  policies  pur- 
sued by  the  government  of  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes  during 
the  early  1980s  led  many  coffee  growers  to  claim  that  coffee  grow- 
ing was  unprofitable.  Even  in  years  of  strong  world  prices,  coffee 
growers  were  adversely  affected  by  the  exchange  rate  manipula- 
tion and  price  controls  effected  by  the  National  Coffee  Institute 
(Instituto  Nacional  de  Cafe — Incafe).  It  was  unclear,  however, 
whether  Incafe  would  continue  to  operate  under  a  more  conserva- 
tive government. 

Sugar  and  cotton,  once  important  agricultural  crops,  accounted 
for  less  than  10  percent  of  agricultural  value  added  in  1987  and 
less  than  5  percent  of  total  Salvadoran  export  earnings.  Low  world 
prices  adversely  affected  sugar  production  and  inhibited  invest- 
ments. Cotton  production  declined  because  of  the  armed  conflict 
and  low  international  prices.  For  example,  in  1986  average  produc- 
tion costs  of  cotton  exceeded  international  prices. 

During  1987  manufacturing  accounted  for  about  15  percent  of 
total  value  added  and  continued  its  consistent  recovery.  Neverthe- 
less, the  sector's  estimated  2.7  percent  growth  left  value  added  in 
manufacturing  almost  10  percent  below  the  1980  level.  The  gradual 
recovery  in  manufacturing  could  be  attributed  to  increased  demand 
for  food  products,  beverages,  and  nonmetallic  products.  In  1987 
food  processing  and  beverages  represented  more  than  half  of  the 
value  added  in  the  manufacturing  sector. 

The  construction  industry  proved  to  be  the  economy's  only  bright 
spot  in  1987,  registering  growth  for  the  third  consecutive  year  with 
14  percent  growth  above  1986.  Compared  with  1979,  however, 
activity  remained  low.  Moreover,  rapid  growth  in  1987  reflected 
efforts  to  replace  the  structures  and  units  damaged  in  the  1986  earth- 
quake rather  than  a  general  revival  of  the  construction  industry. 

Services  represented  almost  half  of  GDP  in  1986.  Like  construc- 
tion and  manufacturing,  service  activity  continued  on  an  upward 
trend  in  1987  after  falling  by  almost  25  percent  between  1978  and 
1982.  As  in  other  areas,  however,  1986  value  added  by  services 
remained  approximately  17  percent  below  its  1978  peak.  Between 
1970  and  1978,  service  output  grew  by  54  percent.  With  the  slow- 
down in  economic  activity  after  1978,  services  declined  by  17  per- 
cent between  1978  and  1987. 

Service  activity  was  tied  closely  to  prevailing  trends  in  the  econ- 
omy and  therefore  didn't  have  the  dynamism  of  agriculture  and 
industry.  Service  activity  was  also  oriented  exclusively  toward 
domestic  markets  and  thus  did  not  affect  the  country's  external 
economic  position.  Services  included  transportation,  commerce, 


107 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


1987  Work  Force  =  2.5  million 

Other  1% 


Agriculture 
50% 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Department  of  State,  Bureau  of  Public 
Affairs,  Background  Notes,  El  Salvador,  Washington,  November  1987,  1. 

Figure  6.  Employment  by  Sector,  1987 

insurance,  health  care,  utilities,  and  other  services  provided  by 
public  enterprises. 

The  Labor  Force 

The  Salvadoran  labor  force  has  been  traditionally  characterized 
as  industrious,  motivated,  and  reliable.  Of  new  entrants  to  the  labor 
force  in  1986,  it  was  estimated  that  4  percent  possessed  executive, 
technical,  or  professional  skills.  Some  25  percent  of  all  job  seekers 
were  classified  as  semi-skilled,  while  71  percent  were  unskilled 
laborers.  The  labor  force  was  young,  reflecting  the  demographic 
profile  of  the  population;  in  1985  more  than  52  percent  of  workers 
were  less  than  thirty  years  of  age  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  The  labor 
force  remained  largely  agrarian  and  rural  in  the  late  1980s  (see 
fig-  «), 

Labor  suffered  because  of  a  variety  of  economic  and  institutional 
circumstances:  real  wages  declined,  unemployment  rose,  and  efforts 
to  unify  the  fragmented  labor  movement  were  thwarted  by  the 
failure  oif  President  Duarte  to  implement  promised  labor  reforms 
and  by  (the  polarization  of  union  leadership  (see  Interest  Groups, 
ch.  4):  The  negative  trend  for  labor  continued  in  1987.  The  legal 
real  minimum  wage  fell  by  28  percent,  and  average  real  private 
sector  and  public  sector  wages  dropped  by  13.3  percent.  Between 
1983  and  1987,  real  wages  declined  by  about  one- third. 


108 


The  Economy 


The  Salvadoran  Constitution  details  the  right  to  organize  unions 
and  associations,  but  the  establishment  of  '  'closed  shops"  (enter- 
prises employing  only  union  workers)  was  forbidden  by  law.  The 
law  also  required  the  use  of  collective  bargaining,  conciliation,  and 
arbitration  before  a  strike  could  be  called. 

In  1986  there  were  approximately  150  recognized  unions,  em- 
ployee associations,  and  peasant  organizations,  which  represented 
15  percent  of  the  total  work  force.  Although  union  membership 
stabilized  in  the  1980s,  union  activism  fluctuated  with  prevailing 
economic  and  political  conditions.  For  example,  in  1982,  while 
membership  remained  fairly  constant  in  relation  to  past  years,  the 
number  of  workers  involved  in  strikes  fell  from  13,904  in  1981  to 
just  373.  In  1984  the  number  jumped  to  26,111. 

In  1987  the  labor  movement  vocalized  its  frustrations  as  eco- 
nomic conditions  stagnated  and  the  civil  conflict  dragged  on.  Such 
frustrations  were  exacerbated  by  the  perception  that  Duarte  failed 
to  implement  the  labor  reforms  he  had  promised  during  the  1984 
presidential  campaign.  Labor  leaders  protested  Duarte' s  failure  to 
fulfill  his  end  of  the  "social  pact"  after  labor  had  put  its  weight 
behind  him  in  exchange  for  pledges  of  increased  inclusion  of  union 
members  in  the  government  and  greater  responsiveness  to  labor 
and  peasant  issues. 

Between  1978  and  1984,  private  employment  fell  from  147,000 
to  122,000,  a  17  percent  decline.  Employment  in  the  construction 
industry  suffered  the  most  during  this  period,  declining  almost  75 
percent.  Employment  opportunities  in  1987  continued  the  down- 
ward trend  that  began  with  the  country's  civil  conflict.  Although 
no  official  unemployment  rates  were  available  for  1986  or  1987, 
it  is  likely  that  counterbalancing  forces  stabilized  the  rate  during 
these  two  years  at  the  1985  level,  or  33  percent.  First,  the  civil  con- 
flict continued  to  displace  many  workers  and  to  limit  employment 
growth.  Second,  the  agricultural  sector  grew  by  3.1  percent,  recoup- 
ing losses  experienced  in  1986.  Finally,  an  estimated  2.5  percent 
economic  growth  rate  in  1987  was  insufficient  to  reduce  the  un- 
employment rate. 

The  impact  of  El  Salvador's  civil  conflict  was  demonstrated  in 
the  evolution  of  the  unemployment  rate  between  1978  and  1985. 
Over  this  period,  the  rate  rose  almost  tenfold,  from  3.1  percent 
to  33  percent.  Labor's  situation  would  have  been  even  more  grave 
without  the  emigration  of  an  estimated  500,000  Salvadorans  to  the 
United  States  between  1978  and  1985.  Remittances  from  workers 
abroad  totaled  US$350  million  officially  in  1987,  although  some 
estimates  were  as  high  as  US$1  billion  or  more. 


109 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Role  of  Government 

Traditionally,  the  government  has  played  an  important  role  in 
the  country's  economy.  This  role  increased  substantially  after  1979, 
provoking  considerable  controversy  and  fueling  domestic  political 
polarization.  Economic  policy  was  coordinated  among  the  central 
and  municipal  governments  and  seventeen  decentralized  agencies, 
which  included  the  Salvadoran  Social  Security  Institute  (Instituto 
Salvadorefio  del  Seguro  Social — ISSS)  and  the  Salvadoran  Insti- 
tute for  Agrarian  Reform  (Instituto  Salvadorefio  de  Transforma- 
tion Agraria — 1ST  A).  Nine  state-owned  companies  provided  utility 
services  to  the  Salvadoran  public.  In  1980  the  government  nation- 
alized the  marketing  and  export  of  coffee  and  sugar,  two  of  El  Sal- 
vador's most  important  export  commodities.  Since  then,  Incafe  and 
the  National  Sugar  Institute  (Instituto  Nacional  de  Azucar — 
Inazucar)  have  acted  as  financial  intermediaries  between  domes- 
tic producers  and  foreign  markets.  These  bodies  have  been  widely 
criticized  by  coffee  and  sugar  producers  because  they  imposed  heavy 
export  taxes  and  service  charges  that  totaled  some  50  percent  of 
the  sale  price  abroad. 

Although  considerable  domestic  criticism  ~f  the  government's 
economic  policy  focused  on  the  disincentives  and  inefficiency  of 
land  reform  and  the  creation  of  Incafe  and  Inazucar,  some  critics 
maintained  that  another  drawback  of  the  government's  economic 
policy  was  its  failure  to  take  into  account  the  counterinsurgency 
effort.  Many  Salvadoran  policymakers  tended  to  accept  the  con- 
flict as  inevitable,  calculating  its  effect  only  in  terms  of  a  shrinking 
growth  rate.  They  apparently  failed  to  assess  a  project's  viability 
in  the  context  of  the  civil  conflict. 

Monetary  and  Credit  Policies 

Between  1979  and  1982,  El  Salvador  experienced  a  23  percent 
fall  in  real  per  capita  GDP,  a  35  percent  decline  in  export  earn- 
ings, and  a  sharp  rise  in  its  unemployment  rate  to  an  estimated 
27  percent.  External  and  internal  imbalance  convinced  the  govern- 
ment to  stabilize  the  situation  under  the  guidance  of  the  IMF.  The 
government  targeted  monetary  growth  and  other  areas  and, 
according  to  the  IMF,  accomplished  most  of  its  goals.  In  1986, 
after  a  moderate  reactivation  of  the  economy  in  1984  and  1985, 
the  government  adopted  a  short-term  adjustment  program  to  cor- 
rect remaining  internal  and  external  imbalances.  This  program 
included  the  following  changes:  unification  of  the  exchange  rate, 
exchange  and  import  restrictions,  a  more  aggressive  export 
promotion  program,  new  fiscal  revenue-generating  mechanisms, 


110 


The  Economy 


agrarian  reforms,  a  macroeconomic  and  external  debt  management 
committee,  and  strict  monetary  policies  to  curb  the  country's 
accelerating  inflation  rate,  a  major  goal  of  government  policy. 

The  rate  of  inflation  in  El  Salvador  was  determined  largely  by 
the  conduct  of  monetary  policy  and  by  variations  in  exchange  rates 
and  wages.  Because  of  a  net  decline  in  capital  formation  and  a  major 
devaluation  of  the  colon,  inflation  doubled  during  the  1980s  rela- 
tive to  the  1965-80  period.  El  Salvador  maintained  an  average 
annual  inflation  rate  of  14.9  percent  between  1980  and  1986,  com- 
pared with  7  percent  per  year  between  1965  and  1980. 

Throughout  the  1980s,  the  government  employed  monetary 
aggregate  targets,  price  controls,  wage  controls,  and  exchange  rate 
freezes  as  mechanisms  to  avoid  accelerated  price  increases.  On  Janu- 
ary 1,  1981,  following  a  surge  in  wholesale  and  consumer  price 
inflation,  the  government  decreed  a  price  freeze  on  basic  goods 
and  services.  Efforts  by  the  Regulatory  Supply  Institute  (Instituto 
Regulador  de  Abastecimientos — IRA)  to  control  prices  through 
market  intervention  had  failed  to  arrest  the  price  rises  for  certain 
necessities,  and  prices  seemed  to  be  out  of  control.  The  govern- 
ment's price  freeze  in  1981  was  accompanied  by  an  intended  six- 
month  wage  freeze,  which  actually  lasted  until  the  end  of  1983. 
Over  the  1981-83  period,  real  wages  dropped  by  29  percent  in  the 
private  sector  and  26  percent  in  the  public  sector. 

In  response  to  the  increase  in  the  number  of  transactions  occur- 
ring in  the  parallel  market  as  a  result  of  the  unofficial  depreciation 
of  the  colon,  1985  price  controls  were  relaxed.  The  result  was  a 
sudden  increase  in  consumer  price  inflation  from  12  percent  to  22 
percent,  which  by  the  end  of  1985  had  accelerated  to  a  32  percent 
annual  rate. 

When  El  Salvador  unified  its  exchange  rate  in  1986,  the  price 
of  some  goods,  such  as  oil  derivatives,  increased  by  50  percent, 
while  others,  such  as  foodstuffs  and  clothing,  held  constant.  Since 
1986  some  price  controls  have  been  lifted,  allowing  prices  to  reflect 
market  forces.  In  1986  inflation  rose  to  30  percent  by  year's  end 
but  declined  to  27  percent  in  1987.  Continued  wage  controls 
through  government  intervention  in  employer-labor  wage  negoti- 
ations, an  officially  fixed  exchange  rate  since  1986,  and  slow  mone- 
tary growth  ostensibly  tamed  the  country's  high  inflation  rate. 
Overall,  the  major  results  of  the  government's  anti-inflation  pro- 
gram were  slower  price  inflation  and  real  wage  losses  for  workers. 

The  Central  Reserve  Bank  of  El  Salvador  (Banco  Central  de 
Reserva  de  El  Salvador — BCR)  set  interest  rates  and  rationed 
credit,  generally  targeting  available  capital  for  high-priority  govern- 
ment projects.  The  Central  Reserve  Bank  also  regulated — and  often 


111 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

executed  directly — transactions  involving  foreign  exchange,  under 
a  1980  regulation  to  curb  capital  flight  and  control  monetary  sup- 
ply. Small  businesses,  especially  export  businesses,  were  granted 
a  majority  portion  of  the  credit,  often  at  preferential  low  interest 
rates. 

The  Salvadoran  government  pursued  restrictive  monetary  poli- 
cies during  1987  to  satisfy  IMF  recommendations  for  improving 
the  Salvadoran  balance  of  payments  and  for  controlling  inflation. 
By  restricting  credit  to  the  private  sector  and  to  public  enterprises, 
the  government  had  hoped  to  curb  demand,  which  in  turn  would 
have  reduced  imports  and  saved  precious  foreign  exchange.  In  fact, 
despite  the  government's  austerity  program,  imports  increased  by 
9  percent  in  1987.  Furthermore,  the  government  hoped  to  slow 
the  monetary  expansion  that  had  tripled  the  money  supply  between 
1979  and  1986  to  15  percent  during  1987. 

The  government  provided  credit  to  the  industrial  sector  through 
the  National  Industrial  Development  Bank  (Banco  Nacional  de 
Fomento  Industrial — Banafi),  which  was  created  in  1981  to  replace 
the  former  Salvadoran  Institute  of  Industrial  Development  (Instituto 
Salvadoreno  de  Fomento  Industrial — Insafi).  Banafi  provided  credit 
to  promising  new  industries  that  were  not  able  to  obtain  credit  from 
other  sources. 

The  Banking  System 

Since  1980  the  entire  Salvadoran  banking  system  has  been  owned 
and  operated  by  the  government.  Under  nationalization,  the  Cen- 
tral Reserve  Bank,  through  the  Operative  Fund  (Fondo  Opera- 
tivo),  rationed  foreign  exchange  to  the  commercial  banks.  The 
Central  Reserve  Bank  assigned  each  commercial  bank  a  maximum 
allowable  balance  of  foreign  exchange  and  required  a  weekly  balance 
report.  The  Central  Reserve  Bank  also  covered  foreign  exchange 
deficits  of  the  commercial  banks  but  required  that  they  transfer 
large  surpluses  to  the  Central  Reserve  Bank.  In  turn,  these  com- 
mercial banks  agreed  to  disburse  foreign  exchange  for  imports  on 
priorities  set  by  the  Central  Reserve  Bank  in  exchange  for  the 
services  rendered.  The  highest  priorities  for  foreign  exchange  dis- 
bursements included  food,  medical  supplies,  raw  materials,  and 
petroleum  products,  followed  by  intermediate  goods,  money  for 
medical  expenses  and  activities  abroad,  and  debt  servicing. 

Prior  to  the  nationalization  of  the  banking  sector,  El  Salvador 
had  numerous  private  financial  institutions  that  were  called  banks 
but  that  actually  functioned  like  investment  companies.  Members, 
who  had  contracts  with  the  companies,  contributed  funds  on  a  regu- 
lar basis  and  then  used  this  capital  as  collateral.  Some  of  the  more 


112 


The  Economy 


important  "banks"  included  the  Investment  and  Savings  Bank, 
the  Credit  and  Savings  Bank,  the  Commercial  Farm  Bank,  and 
the  Popular  Credit  Bank.  The  Popular  Credit  Bank  had  broader 
powers  than  the  others  and  could  accept  time  deposits  and  savings 
accounts,  deal  in  foreign  exchange,  and  extend  letters  of  credit. 
The  Salvadoran  Coffee  Company  and  the  Salvadoran  Cotton 
Cooperative  also  provided  seasonal  credit  to  their  members.  Their 
activities  were  not  financed  by  deposits,  but  rather  by  loans  from 
foreign  banks  (mostly  United  States  institutions). 

As  a  result  of  the  civil  conflict  and  the  1980  government  decree 
nationalizing  the  banking  system,  many  Salvadorans  transferred 
their  savings  out  of  the  country.  Consequently,  private  savings  fell 
from  a  34  percent  share  of  GDP  in  1979  to  a  32  percent  share  in 
1980.  Capital  outflows,  however,  were  heavier  than  this  statistic 
would  indicate  because  GDP  fell  by  8  percent  in  the  same  year. 
By  1982,  nonetheless,  private  sector  confidence  in  the  banking  sys- 
tem had  been  tentatively  restored,  and  private  savings  increased 
to  39  percent  of  GDP.  The  increase  was  primarily  attributed  to 
a  1982  rise  in  interest  rates,  which  provided  an  incentive  for  saving. 

The  Tax  System 

Taxes,  including  sales,  export,  property,  income,  capital  gains, 
profit,  and  stamp  taxes  (a  5  percent  levy  on  goods  and  services), 
accounted  for  a  95  percent  annual  average  of  the  Salvadoran  govern- 
ment's revenue  between  1976  and  1985.  Tax  revenue  as  a  share 
of  GDP  increased  from  11.6  percent  in  1972  to  14.7  percent  in 
1986.  Domestic  sales  taxes,  representing  37  percent  of  total  cur- 
rent revenue  in  1986,  were  the  most  important  source  of  revenue 
for  the  government.  Taxes  on  international  trade  transactions 
provided  an  additional  27  percent  of  current  revenue  (two-thirds 
came  from  export  duties),  and  taxes  on  income,  profits,  and  capi- 
tal gains  provided  19  percent.  Property  taxes  constituted  only  5 
percent  of  government  revenue. 

All  residents,  regardless  of  citizenship,  were  required  to  pay  per- 
sonal income  tax,  which  was  assessed  according  to  a  progressive 
scale,  with  a  graduated  minimum  tax  plus  a  percentage.  In  1986 
wage  earners  who  garnered  less  than  the  equivalent  of  US$2,400 
per  year  paid  no  income  tax,  while  those  whose  income  exceeded 
the  equivalent  of  US$50,000  paid  at  a  60  percent  rate.  The  maxi- 
mum corporate  tax  was  also  set  at  60  percent.  In  addition,  busi- 
nesses were  subject  to  a  net  worth  tax  based  on  their  net  capital 
investment;  the  maximum  rate  of  this  levy  was  2.5  percent. 

The  relative  importance  of  export  duties  as  a  revenue  source  has 
been  problematic  for  the  government.  Besides  being  unpopular 


113 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

among  coffee  producers,  these  taxes  fluctuated  with  world  coffee 
prices.  In  1986,  for  example,  government  revenues  rose  by  57  per- 
cent, compared  with  1985.  Although  higher  income  taxes,  stamp 
taxes,  and  increased  foreign  aid  also  increased  revenue  in  1986, 
the  size  of  the  increase  resulted  largely  from  a  jump  in  world  coffee 
prices  from  US$1.43  per  pound  in  1985  to  US$1.71  per  pound 
in  1986.  Conversely,  when  world  coffee  prices  fell  to  only  US$1 . 1 1 
per  pound  in  1987,  the  Salvadoran  government  reported  a  fiscal 
deficit  of  US$160  million. 

Fiscal  Policy  and  the  Budget  Process 

Salvadoran  law  stipulated  that  fiscal  budgets  of  the  central  govern- 
ment, the  decentralized  agencies,  and  public  enterprises  such  as 
Incafe  and  Inazucar  had  to  be  approved  by  the  Legislative  Assembly 
(see  The  Legislature,  ch.  4).  Budgets  were  generally  approved  for 
one  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary)  at  a  time.  Special  projects,  such 
as  those  funded  by  the  United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID)  and  other  foreign  agencies,  were  considered 
extrabudgetary  operations,  however,  and  were  not  subject  to  legis- 
lative approval. 

In  nominal  terms,  government  spending  doubled  between  1976 
and  1982,  from  US$335  million  to  US$658  million.  Government 
spending  was  stable  relative  to  GDP,  however;  government  expen- 
ditures represented  12.8  percent  of  GDP  in  1972,  compared  with 
12.9  percent  in  1986.  In  1986  the  government  maintained  a  sur- 
plus in  its  current  account  and  an  overall  deficit  equal  to  5.4  per- 
cent of  GDP. 

The  central  government's  fiscal  deficit  increased  significantly  as 
a  share  of  GDP  during  the  1980s  as  compared  with  the  1970s.  The 
deficit  was  0.5  percent  of  GDP  in  1976  but  reached  3.4  percent 
in  1986.  Most  of  the  capital  needed  to  cover  the  growing  fiscal 
deficits  between  1979  and  1987  was  obtained  from  the  Central 
Reserve  Bank.  The  government  could  in  fact  cover  about  85  per- 
cent of  its  annual  fiscal  deficit  with  financing  from  the  Central 
Reserve  Bank.  In  order  to  fund  operations  of  public  enterprises 
and  additional  development  programs,  however,  the  government 
had  to  rely  heavily  on  foreign  aid  and  international  loans.  The 
government  owed  only  US$88  million  to  foreign  creditors  in  1970, 
but  this  indebtedness  had  increased  to  US$1.5  billion  by  1986. 

United  States  assistance  greatly  increased  in  importance  to  the 
Salvadoran  economy  during  the  1980s.  Between  1980  and  1986, 
the  United  States  provided  a  total  of  US$2.5  billion  in  economic 
and  military  aid.  This  represented  an  increase  of  more  than 
3,000  percent  over  the  US$7  million  in  economic,  military,  and 


114 


The  Economy 


development  aid  sent  during  the  entire  1970-79  period.  By  1987 
United  States  assistance  totaled  US$608  million,  larger  than  the 
fiscal  budget  of  the  Salvadoran  government  of  US$582  million. 

Allocation  of  Government  Expenditures 

The  allocation  of  government  spending  changed  markedly  after 
1978,  mainly  as  a  result  of  the  civil  conflict.  While  expenditures 
on  education  and  health  fell  as  a  share  of  total  government  spend- 
ing, military  spending  rose  dramatically. 

Military 

The  percentage  of  total  government  expenditures  on  the  Salva- 
doran military  increased  from  6.6  percent  in  1972  to  28.7  percent 
in  1986.  Most  of  this  increase  was  a  result  of  the  country's  civil 
conflict  and  the  need  to  establish  and  maintain  the  59,000-member 
armed  forces  and  security  forces  (see  Defense  Budget,  ch.  5).  If 
one  also  considers  the  military's  operating  expenditures  (wages  and 
purchases  of  goods  and  services  related  to  national  security),  mili- 
tary spending  increased  from  22.2  percent  of  all  government  out- 
lays in  1980  to  47.3  percent  in  1986. 

The  huge  amounts  spent  on  counterinsurgency  were  further 
underscored  when  one  considers  foreign  military  aid;  as  much  as 
75  percent  of  the  US$2.5  billion  in  United  States  assistance  be- 
tween 1980  and  1986  may  have  been  applied  directly  or  indirectly 
to  the  war  effort.  A  study  released  in  late  1987  by  the  bipartisan 
Arms  Control  and  Foreign  Policy  Caucus  of  the  United  States  Con- 
gress alleged  that  aid  targeted  for  "stabilization,  restoration,  and 
humanitarian  needs"  was  being  used  instead  to  repair  damage, 
thus  freeing  more  of  the  Salvadoran  budget  for  military  expendi- 
tures. The  caucus  advocated  stricter  measures  to  ensure  that  aid 
was  used  to  improve  health  care,  nutrition,  and  education. 

Utilities  and  Communications 

Most  major  utility  companies  in  El  Salvador  were  state  owned 
and  operated.  These  included  the  National  Water  and  Sewerage 
Administration  (Administracion  Nacional  de  Acueductos  y 
Alcantarillados — ANDA),  the  National  Telecommunications  Ad- 
ministration (Administracion  Nacional  de  Telecomunicaciones — 
Antel),  and  the  National  Electric  Company,  known  formally  as  the 
Rio  Lempa  Executive  Hydroelectric  Commission  (Gomision  Ejecu- 
tiva  Hidroelectrica  del  Rio  Lempa — CEL).  These  companies, 
responsible  for  providing  public  services,  operated  fairly  autono- 
mously, even  though  their  budgets  were  controlled  by  the  Legisla- 
tive Assembly.  Government  expenditures  on  economic  services 


115 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

(including  road  construction  and  maintenance,  communications 
facilities,  and  power  plants  and  lines)  declined  from  29  percent  of 
total  expenditures  in  1976  to  only  12  percent  in  1985.  Spending 
on  these  services  increased  by  37  percent  in  nominal  terms  from 
US$98  million  in  1976  to  US$135  million  in  1985;  during  the  same 
period,  government  spending  increased  by  31  percent,  from  US$334 
million  to  US$1.1  billion.  In  1978  about  70  percent  of  these  service- 
oriented  expenditures  went  for  the  building  and  maintenance  of 
roads,  communications  facilities,  and  power  plants  and  lines.  This 
share  declined  to  53  percent  in  1986,  largely  because  of  increased 
spending  on  services  to  the  agriculture  sector  and  the  fishing  in- 
dustry. 

Health,  Education,  and  Entitlements 

Historically,  El  Salvador's  health  care  system  has  fallen  short 
of  the  country's  needs  (see  Health  and  Welfare,  ch.  2).  The  govern- 
ment's ability  to  provide  adequate  health  care  eroded  during  the 
1980s  because  of  the  civil  conflict's  costliness  and  guerrilla  attacks 
that  destroyed  many  previously  existing  facilities.  Spending  on 
health  care,  as  well  as  other  social  services,  was  supplanted  by  in- 
creases in  military  spending.  Consequently,  government  spend- 
ing on  health  services  declined  as  a  share  of  total  expenditures  from 
10  percent  in  1978  to  7.5  percent  in  1986. 

Nevertheless,  compared  with  its  performance  earlier  in  the 
decade,  health  care  improved  in  the  mid-1980s,  largely  because 
of  AID  efforts.  With  AID  assistance,  the  Salvadoran  government 
circumvented  drastic  reductions  in  social  services — despite  cuts  to 
these  services  in  the  fiscal  budget — and  progressed  in  a  number 
of  areas.  Between  1984  and  1986,  malaria  cases  declined  from 
62,000  to  23,500;  officials  from  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health  and 
Social  Services  were  able  to  make  914  prenatal  visits  per  1 ,000  births 
in  1986,  compared  with  876  in  1984;  health  officials  also  increased 
distribution  of  oral  rehydration  packets  (vital  to  reducing  infant 
mortality)  by  130  percent,  from  650,000  in  1984  to  1.5  million  in 
1986. 

Education's  share  of  government  expenditures  declined,  a  side 
effect  of  the  civil  conflict,  from  21.4  percent  in  1976  to  14.5  per- 
cent in  1986.  As  a  result,  by  1986  over  1,000  schools  had  been 
abandoned. 

Government  spending  on  social  security  and  welfare  increased 
from  US$11  million  in  1976  to  US$31  million  in  1985,  an  increase 
in  line  with  that  for  total  government  spending.  Spending  on  hous- 
ing and  amenities,  however,  declined  in  nominal  terms,  from 
US$11  miUion  in  1976  to  US$6  million  in  1985.  This  category 


116 


Municipal  buses,  San  Salvador 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

included  spending  on  sanitary  services,  which  declined  from 
US$800,000  in  1976  to  US$200,000  in  1985,  after  dropping  to  a 
low  of  US$100,000  between  1979  and  1981. 

Public  Enterprises 

In  El  Salvador  in  the  late  1980s,  there  were  nine  state-owned 
companies,  the  most  important  of  which  were  public  utility  com- 
panies, such  as  CEL,  Antel,  AND  A,  IRA,  and  the  Autonomous 
Executive  Port  Commission  (Comision  Ejecutiva  Portuaria  Auto- 
noma — CEPA).  IRA,  which  operated  under  the  Ministry  of 
Agriculture  and  Livestock,  was  responsible  for  marketing  imported 
or  domestic  foodstuffs,  such  as  corn,  rice,  beans,  and  powdered 
milk.  Some  of  these  foods  were  sold  in  government  stores  at  subsi- 
dized prices.  The  state  also  owned  shares  of  the  cement  and  textile 
industries.  The  establishment  of  the  two  state-owned  marketing 
companies,  Incafe  and  Inazucar,  expanded  the  public  sector  sig- 
nificantly and  increased  public  revenue  at  the  expense  of  coffee  and 
sugar  producers. 

Most  state-owned  companies  turned  a  profit  in  the  1980s.  Be- 
tween 1980  and  1983,  for  example,  state-sector  profits  increased 
from  0.8  percent  to  1.7  percent  of  GDP.  Some  state-owned  com- 
panies, however,  tended  not  to  adjust  prices  during  inflationary 
periods.  IRA  regularly  incurred  large  deficits  by  trying  to  provide 
affordable  foodstuffs.  IRA's  deficits  were  generally  covered  by  the 
central  government.  Most  other  state-owned  companies  financed 


117 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


their  deficits  abroad,  or  through  loans  from  the  Central  Reserve 
Bank. 

Agriculture 

Industry  and  agriculture  were  the  most  dynamic  sectors  of  the 
economy  during  the  1965-80  period,  growing  each  year  by  5.3  per- 
cent and  3.6  percent  in  real  terms,  respectively.  Between  1980  and 
1986,  the  value  of  agricultural  output  dropped  by  an  average  2.3 
percent  per  year.  This  decline  was  influenced  by  a  number  of  fac- 
tors, among  them  guerrilla  sabotage,  the  comparative  inefficiency 
of  farms  created  by  the  land  reform  program,  and  the  ineffective- 
ness of  many  government  policies.  Despite  the  general  decline  of 
agricultural  output,  coffee,  which  generated  half  the  country's  ex- 
port earnings  in  1987,  continued  as  the  most  important  commodity 
produced  in  El  Salvador. 

The  agricultural  sector  accounted  for  nearly  25  percent  of  GDP 
in  1987  and  was  responsible  for  about  80  percent  of  the  country's 
export  revenue.  Although  the  number  of  people  employed  in 
agriculture  increased  from  3.5  million  in  1970  to  5.7  million  in 
1986,  the  share  of  the  economically  active  population  employed 
in  agriculture  declined  from  56  percent  in  1970  to  only  40  percent 
in  1986.  After  coffee,  sugar  and  cotton  were  the  most  important 
agricultural  commodities.  Basic  grains  (wheat,  rice,  and  corn)  were 
also  grown  extensively,  but  for  domestic  consumption. 

Despite  the  relative  importance  of  agriculture  to  El  Salvador's 
economy,  absolute  levels  of  production  declined  dramatically  after 
1979.  Several  factors,  especially  the  civil  conflict,  were  blamed  for 
the  decline.  Guerrilla  attacks  on  farms,  processing  plants,  and  in- 
frastructure undermined  efficiency,  precluded  investment,  and  in- 
timidated laborers.  The  impact  of  the  conflict  varied,  however, 
depending  on  the  crop.  For  example,  the  geographical  location  of 
the  most  important  coffee- growing  area — the  western  sector  of  the 
country — insulated  most  coffee  producers  from  the  violence.  In  con- 
trast, cotton  production,  centered  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  coun- 
try, was  devastated  by  guerrilla  activities. 

The  Land  Tenure  System 

Historically,  landownership  in  El  Salvador  has  been  highly  con- 
centrated in  an  elite  group  of  wealthy  landowners.  Most  of  the  good 
arable  land  in  El  Salvador  was  located  on  large  coffee  plantations, 
while  lower  quality  land  was  rented  to  peasants,  who  grew  staple 
crops  (see  Standard  of  Living,  ch.  2).  Because  these  plots  often  failed 
to  provide  even  a  subsistence-level  existence  for  them,  the  tenant 
farmers  often  worked  as  laborers  for  the  coffee  plantations  as  well. 


118 


The  Economy 


During  the  colonial  period,  a  certain  tension  existed  between  the 
hacendados — the  owners  of  private  plantations — and  Indian  com- 
munities that  laid  claim  to,  but  did  not  always  make  productive 
use  of,  communal  lands  known  as  ejidos  or  tierras  comunales.  Although 
some  encroachment  by  hacendados  on  Indian  lands  undoubtedly 
took  place,  this  practice  was  not  apparently  widespread,  mainly 
because  the  Spanish  crown  had  supported  the  integrity  of  the  Indian 
lands.  After  independence,  however,  the  process  of  private  seizure 
of  communal  lands  accelerated,  aided  by  the  confusing  and  incom- 
plete nature  of  the  inherited  colonial  statutes  dealing  with  the  owner- 
ship and  transfer  of  land.  The  rapid  growth  of  coffee  production 
in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries  led  the  govern- 
ment to  formalize  the  favored  status  of  private,  export-oriented 
agriculture  over  subsistence  farming  through  the  passage  of  the  legis- 
lative decree  of  March  1,  1879.  This  decree  allowed  private  in- 
dividuals to  acquire  title  to  ejido  land  as  long  as  they  planted  at 
least  25  percent  of  that  land  with  certain  specified  crops,  most  nota- 
bly coffee  and  cocoa.  Tierras  comunales  were  formally  abolished  in 
February  1881;  the  abolishment  of  ejidos  in  March  1882  left  pri- 
vate property  as  the  only  legally  recognized  form  of  land  tenure. 

During  the  twentieth  century,  the  conflict  over  land  tenure  pit- 
ted commercial  export-crop  producers  against  campesinos  who 
sought  to  raise  subsistence  crops — mainly  corn — on  land  to  which 
they  rarely  held  legal  title.  Some  campesinos  worked  under  vari- 
ous rental  and  sharecropping  arrangements;  however,  an  increas- 
ing number  functioned  as  squatters,  with  no  claim  to  their  land 
beyond  their  mere  presence  on  it.  This  occupation  of  private  and 
public  lands  was  intensified  by  rapid  population  growth,  the  ex- 
pansion of  cotton  production  that  removed  further  acreage  from 
the  total  available  for  subsistence  agriculture,  and  the  expulsion 
of  thousands  of  Salvadorans  from  Honduras  following  the  1969  war 
between  the  two  countries  (see  The  1969  War  with  Honduras, 
ch.  1). 

As  of  1988,  the  most  recent  agricultural  census  had  been  con- 
ducted in  1971,  but  data  on  the  1980  land  reform  program  cor- 
roborates that  extremely  unequal  land  distribution  patterns  persisted 
throughout  the  1970s.  According  to  the  1971  agricultural  census, 
92  percent  of  the  farms  in  El  Salvador  (some  250,500  in  all)  together 
comprised  only  27  percent  of  all  farm  area.  The  other  73  percent 
of  farmland  was  combined  in  only  1,951  farms,  or  8  percent  of 
all  farms;  these  parcels  were  all  over  100  hectares.  Farms  between 
100  and  500  hectares  represented  15  percent  of  El  Salvador's  cul- 
tivated area. 


119 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

The  land  distributed  under  Phase  I  of  the  land  reform  program 
included  the  largest  plantations — all  those  larger  than  500  hectares. 
Phase  I  divided  up  469  individual  properties,  with  a  combined  area 
of  219,400  hectares,  almost  18  percent  of  all  Salvadoran  farmland. 
Nearly  31,400  Salvadoran  heads  of  household  benefited  directly 
from  Phase  I  of  the  land  reform;  if  family  members  are  included, 
the  beneficiaries  totaled  almost  188,200.  Most  of  these  lands  were 
expropriated  by  the  government  and  divided  among  317  coopera- 
tives. The  government  hoped  that  the  economies  of  scale  possible 
under  a  cooperative  framework  would  keep  the  farms  efficient. 

The  government  guaranteed  the  former  landholders  that  they 
would  be  compensated  and  had  planned  to  pay  them  out  of  the 
cooperatives'  earnings.  However,  because  the  cooperatives  ex- 
perienced major  difficulties  during  their  initial  years,  much  of  the 
compensation  had  to  be  paid  by  the  government.  According  to  a 
report  released  by  the  inspector  general  of  AID  in  February  1984, 
the  cooperatives  established  under  Phase  I  of  the  land  reform  "had 
massive  capital  debt,  no  working  capital,  large  tracts  of  nonproduc- 
tive land,  substantially  larger  labor  forces  than  needed  to  operate 
the  units,  and  weak  management."  By  the  end  of  1985,  only  5 
percent  of  the  317  cooperatives  formed  under  the  land  reform  were 
able  to  pay  their  debts,  in  spite  of  US$150  million  in  assistance 
from  AID.  Many  lacked  capital  to  buy  fertilizer,  so  yields  steadily 
declined.  Nevertheless,  by  the  end  of  1987  almost  all  Phase  I  com- 
pensation had  been  paid.  The  restrictions  placed  on  Phase  II  by 
the  Constituent  Assembly  greatiy  limited  its  effect  on  land  tenure 
because  of  the  small  size  of  the  plots  (see  Agrarian  Reform,  ch.  2). 
As  of  1987,  however,  Phase  II  of  the  agrarian  reform  program  had 
not  been  implemented. 

Major  Crops  and  Commodities 

Coffee 

Coffee  has  fueled  the  Salvadoran  economy  and  shaped  its  his- 
tory for  more  than  a  century.  It  was  first  cultivated  for  domestic 
use  early  in  the  nineteenth  century.  By  mid-century  its  commer- 
cial promise  was  evident,  and  the  government  began  to  favor  its 
production  through  legislation  such  as  tax  breaks  for  producers, 
exemption  from  military  service  for  coffee  workers,  and  elimina- 
tion of  export  duties  for  new  producers.  By  1880  coffee  had  become 
virtually  the  sole  export  crop.  Compared  with  indigo,  previously 
the  dominant  export  commodity,  coffee  was  a  more  demanding 
crop.  Since  coffee  bushes  required  several  years  to  produce  a  usa- 
ble harvest,  its  production  required  a  greater  commitment  of  capital, 


120 


labor,  and  land  than  did  indigo.  Coffee  also  grew  best  at  a  certain 
altitude,  whereas  indigo  flourished  almost  anywhere. 

Unlike  those  of  Guatemala  and  Costa  Rica,  the  Salvadoran  coffee 
industry  developed  largely  without  the  benefit  of  external  techni- 
cal and  financial  help.  El  Salvador  nonetheless  became  one  of  the 
most  efficient  coffee  producers  in  the  world.  This  was  especially 
true  on  the  large  coffee  fincas,  where  the  yield  per  hectare  increased 
in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  finca,  a  rare  occurrence  in  planta- 
tion agriculture.  The  effect  of  coffee  production  on  Salvadoran  so- 
ciety has  been  immeasurable,  not  only  in  terms  of  land  tenure  but 
also  because  the  coffee  industry  has  served  as  a  catalyst  for  the  de- 
velopment of  infrastructure  (roads  and  railroads)  and  as  a  mechan- 
ism for  the  integration  of  indigenous  communities  into  the  national 
economy. 

In  the  decades  prior  to  the  civil  conflict  of  the  1980s,  export  earn- 
ings from  coffee  allowed  growers  to  expand  production,  finance 
the  development  of  a  cotton  industry,  and  establish  a  light  manufac- 
turing sector.  After  1979,  however,  government  policies,  guerrilla 
attacks,  and  natural  disasters  reduced  investment,  impeding  the 
coffee  industry's  growth.  To  make  matters  worse,  after  a  price  jump 
in  1986  world  coffee  prices  fell  by  35  percent  in  1987,  causing  coffee 
exports  to  decline  in  value  from  US$539  million  to  US$347  million. 

Government  control  of  coffee  marketing  and  export  was  regarded 
as  one  of  the  strongest  deterrents  to  investment  in  the  industry. 


121 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  first  year  of  Incafe's  existence,  coffee  yields  dropped  by  over 
20  percent.  During  each  of  the  ensuing  four  years,  yields  were  about 
30  percent  lower  than  those  registered  during  the  1978-80  period. 
Although  the  area  in  production  remained  fairly  constant  at  approx- 
imately 180,000  hectares,  production  of  green  coffee  declined  in 
absolute  terms  from  175,000  tons  in  1979  to  141,000  tons  in  1986; 
this  19  percent  drop  was  a  direct  result  of  lower  yields,  which  in 
turn  were  attributed  to  decreased  levels  of  investment.  According 
to  the  Salvadoran  Coffee  Growers  Association  (Asociacion 
Cafetalera  de  El  Salvador — ACES),  besides  controlling  the  sale  of 
coffee,  Incafe  also  charged  growers  export  taxes  and  service  charges 
equal  to  about  50  percent  of  the  sale  price  and  was  often  late  in 
paying  growers  for  their  coffee. 

Coffee  growers  also  suffered  from  guerrilla  attacks,  extortion, 
and  the  imposition  of  so-called  "war  taxes"  during  the  1980s  (see 
Left-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  These  difficulties,  in  addition  to  their 
direct  impact  on  production,  also  decreased  investment.  Under  nor- 
mal conditions,  coffee  growers  replaced  at  least  5  percent  of  their 
coffee  plants  each  year  because  the  most  productive  coffee  plants 
are  between  five  and  fifteen  years  old.  Many  coffee  growers  in  El 
Salvador,  in  an  effort  to  avoid  further  losses,  neglected  to  replant. 

Although  most  coffee  production  took  place  in  the  western  sec- 
tion of  El  Salvador,  coffee  growers  who  operated  in  the  eastern 
region  were  sometimes  compelled  to  strike  a  modus  vivendi  with 
the  guerrillas.  During  the  1984-85  harvest,  for  example,  the  guer- 
rillas added  to  their  '  'war  tax' '  demand  a  threat  to  attack  any  plan- 
tation they  thought  underpaid  workers.  They  demanded  that 
workers  receive  the  equivalent  of  US$4.00  per  100  pounds  picked, 
a  US$1.00  increase  over  what  was  then  the  going  rate.  The  fact 
that  growers  negotiated  with  the  guerrillas — while  the  government 
looked  the  other  way — demonstrated  the  continuing  importance 
of  coffee  export  revenue  to  both  the  growers  and  the  government. 

Sugar 

Sugar  was  the  most  dynamic  of  all  agricultural  commodities  dur- 
ing the  1980s,  showing  increases  in  production  and  amount  of  area 
cultivated.  Salvadoran  farmers  devoted  42,000  hectares  to  sugar 
production  in  1986,  compared  with  33,000  hectares  in  1979. 
Production  rose  from  2.7  million  tons  in  1979  to  3.2  million  tons 
in  1986,  after  peaking  at  a  record  3.4  million  tons  in  1984.  Despite 
rising  production,  however,  sugar  producers  still  experienced 
problems.  World  sugar  prices  crashed  from  US$0,085  per  pound 
in  1983  to  US$0.04  per  pound  in  1984  and  did  not  begin  to  recover 
until  late  1987. 


122 


The  Economy 


Cotton 

Salvadoran  farmers  did  not  produce  much  cotton  until  after 
World  War  II,  when  several  technological  developments  combined 
to  facilitate  farming  on  the  coastal  lowlands.  One  of  these  was  the 
increased  availability  of  drugs  to  combat  malaria  and  yellow  fever; 
another  was  the  production  of  cheap  chemical  insecticides  (insect 
infestation  being  the  major  obstacle  to  high  cotton  yields  in  El  Sal- 
vador); and  yet  another  was  the  development  during  World  War 
II,  when  imports  of  cloth  and  clothing  dried  up,  of  a  domestic  tex- 
tile industry.  During  the  1950s,  cotton  production  increased  fifteen- 
fold.  Production  was  boosted  still  further  in  the  1960s  by  the 
completion  of  the  Carretera  Litoral,  the  coastal  highway  running 
almost  the  length  of  the  country. 

Although  it  was  one  of  the  country's  top  sources  of  export  revenue 
in  the  1960s  and  1970s,  cotton  was  the  major  economic  casualty 
of  the  civil  conflict,  virtually  disappearing  as  an  export  commodi- 
ty during  the  1980s.  The  value  of  exports  fell  precipitously,  from 
US$87  million  in  1979,  to  US$56  million  in  1983,  and  to  only 
US$2.3  million  in  1987.  Many  plantations  in  the  eastern  part  of 
the  country  were  abandoned  as  a  result  of  the  violence,  while  other 
plantations  affected  by  the  land  reform  shifted  production  to  other 
crops.  Those  farms  that  continued  to  operate  reported  declining 
yields  and  a  virtual  cessation  of  investment  and  replanting.  The 
cultivated  area  devoted  to  cotton  declined  from  82,000  hectares  in 
1979  to  only  27,000  hectares  in  1986,  a  drop  of  almost  70  percent. 
Production  of  seed  cotton  declined  from  169,000  tons  in  1979  to 
55,000  tons  in  1986. 

Basic  Grains 

During  the  late  1970s,  the  Salvadoran  government  shifted  the 
emphasis  of  agricultural  policy  away  from  traditional  export  com- 
modities toward  increased  production  of  staple  crops  for  domestic 
consumption.  Food  security,  defined  as  the  ability  to  produce 
enough  food  domestically,  was  a  goal  of  the  government  in  the 
1980s,  but  one  that  proved  increasingly  elusive.  The  area  under 
cereals  cultivation  declined  from  422,000  hectares  in  1979  to  390,000 
hectares  in  1986  because  farms  located  in  conflict  zones  were  aban- 
doned. The  shortfall  was  made  up  by  an  increase  in  imports.  Sal- 
vadoran food  imports  totaled  only  75,000  tons  in  1974;  by  1986, 
however,  this  figure  had  risen  to  212,000  tons.  In  response  to  the 
insurgency,  food  aid  was  increased.  In  1974-75,  for  example,  El 
Salvador  received  only  4,000  tons  of  food  aid;  by  1985-86  this  figure 
had  risen  to  278,000  tons. 


123 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Corn  production  declined  steadily  from  517,000  tons  in  1979 
to  391 ,000  tons  in  1986.  The  area  for  corn  cultivation  also  declined 
from  281 ,000  hectares  to  243,000  hectares,  while  yields  shrank  from 
1.8  tons  per  hectare  to  1.5  tons  per  hectare.  Rice  production, 
however,  remained  fairly  steady.  Salvadoran  farmers  maintained 
approximately  15,000  hectares  in  rice  from  1979  to  1986  (rising 
to  17,000  hectares  in  1985);  harvests  rose  from  56,000  tons  in  1979 
to  69,000  tons  in  1985,  only  to  drop  to  53,000  tons  in  1986.  Sor- 
ghum production  and  cultivation  also  declined  slightly.  In  1979 
farmers  devoted  126,000  hectares  to  the  cultivation  of  sorghum, 
compared  with  1 19,000  hectares  in  1986.  Sorghum  harvests  declined 
from  145,000  tons  in  1979  to  135,000  tons  in  1986. 

Livestock 

Cattle  raising  accounted  for  some  10  percent  of  the  value  added 
in  agriculture  for  1986.  The  cattle  population  dropped  from 
1,317,000  head  in  1979  to  only  1,010,000  head  in  1986.  Salvadoran 
farmers  raised  only  400,000  pigs  in  1986,  an  11  percent  decline 
from  1979.  The  declines  in  production  were  attributable  to  wide- 
spread overslaughtering — a  result  of  the  land  reform,  which  caused 
some  large  landowners  to  slaughter  their  livestock  and  sell  them 
rather  than  lose  them  to  the  cooperatives — smuggling,  to  avoid  ex- 
port taxes,  and  the  effects  of  the  civil  conflict. 

Fisheries 

El  Salvador's  fishing  industry,  although  responsible  for  only  0.1 
percent  of  GDP,  produced  the  fourth  largest  source  of  export 
revenue  for  the  country  in  1986.  In  1987  the  fishing  industry  con- 
sisted of  two  main  sectors,  a  modern,  capital-intensive  shrimp  fish- 
ery, and  a  small  artisanal  fishery.  Of  the  two,  the  shrimp  industry 
was  the  big  money-maker,  with  shrimp  exports  totaling  3,700  tons 
in  1986,  valued  at  US$18.4  million.  Shrimp  fishermen  caught  an 
annual  average  of  about  5,400  tons  from  1980  through  1987,  up 
from  the  3,000  to  4,000  tons  caught  each  year  during  the  1960s 
and  1970s.  The  abundant  shrimp  resource  supported  both  a  modern 
shrimp  fleet  and  an  artisanal  shrimp  fishery. 

In  1981  the  government  established  the  Center  for  Fisheries 
Development  (Centro  de  Desarrollo  Pesquero — Cendepesca)  to  de- 
velop the  fishing  industry.  Cendepesca  regulated  the  industry  and 
promoted  its  expansion  through  such  devices  as  tax  credits  on  the 
importation  of  machinery,  fishing  boats,  and  inputs  for  process- 
ing and  exemptions  of  five  or  ten  years  on  municipal  and  income 
taxes  for  companies  devoted  to  fishing.  Cendepesca  also  tried  to 
manage  the  shrimp  fishery  (to  prevent  overfishing)  through  required 


124 


Shrimp  fishermen 

Courtesy  United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 

registration  and  licensing  of  shrimp  boats.  Cendepesca  repeatedly 
sought  to  impose  a  closed  season  during  shrimp  reproduction 
periods,  but  these  efforts  were  thwarted  by  powerful  lobbyists  in 
the  face  of  opposition  from  major  shrimp  companies.  Consequendy, 
there  was  a  fear  that  overfishing  would  deplete  stocks,  a  develop- 
ment that  could  reduce  the  shrimp  catch  and  have  a  major  impact 
on  the  country's  export  earnings. 

El  Salvador  also  had  an  embryonic  shrimp  culture  industry. 
According  to  an  AID  feasibility  study,  El  Salvador  has  5,000  hect- 
ares of  land  particularly  well  suited  for  shrimp  farming.  By  the  end 
of  1987,  however,  only  four  small  shrimp  farms  were  operating 
in  El  Salvador. 

The  government  also  tried  with  a  US$50  million  loan  from 
France  to  establish  a  major  tuna  fishery.  The  funds  were  used  to 
build  a  large  tuna  port,  complete  with  processing  facilities,  at  La 
Union,  already  a  major  shrimp  fishing  port.  The  project  was  com- 
pleted in  1981  but  was  never  initiated  because  of  the  government's 
poor  management  of  the  vessels  and  the  project.  The  Salvadoran 
government,  which  purchased  two  large  tuna  seiners  for  operation 
in  1981  and  1982,  reported  meager  catches  because  of  technical 
difficulties.  By  1985  the  facilities  at  La  Union  had  languished,  and 
the  government  was  unable  to  sell  the  vessels.  The  weakness  of 
the  Salvadoran  tuna  industry  became  clear  in  September  1986  (and 


125 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

again  in  August  1988)  when  the  Salvadoran  government  ignored 
the  United  States  Marine  Mammal  Protection  Act,  an  act  that 
requires  tuna  exporters  to  the  United  States  to  report  their  efforts 
to  reduce  concomitant  porpoise  mortalities.  Consequently,  the 
United  States  embargoed  Salvadoran  tuna  in  September  1986  and 
again  in  1988. 

Forestry 

El  Salvador's  forestry  industry  developed  rapidly  after  1969,  when 
the  "Soccer  War"  cut  off  shipments  of  lumber  from  Honduras, 
a  primary  supplier  (see  The  1969  War  with  Honduras,  ch.  1).  The 
lumber  industry  was  encouraged  by  the  developing  paper  and  wood 
pulp  production  industries  and  the  ongoing  traditional  furniture 
industry.  By  the  mid-1980s,  however,  El  Salvador  was  once  again 
highly  dependent  on  wood  imports.  Lumber  imports  in  1985  totaled 
US$36.7  million,  compared  with  US$13  million  in  1974,  while  lum- 
ber exports  reached  US$6.6  million  in  1985,  compared  with  only 
US$400,000  in  1974. 

Industry 

The  creation  of  the  CACM  fostered  development  of  industry 
in  El  Salvador  during  the  1960s  by  reducing  intraregional  trade 
barriers,  which  increased  aggregate  demand  for  manufactured 
goods.  The  Salvadoran  and  Guatemalan  manufacturing  sectors 
benefited  the  most  and  conversely  suffered  the  most  when  the 
CACM  lost  momentum  after  the  1969  Salvadoran-Honduran  war. 
During  the  1980s,  however,  industrial  output,  affected  by  guer- 
rilla attacks  on  power  plants  and  by  reduced  investor  confidence, 
also  suffered  declines  by  an  average  of  0.7  percent  each  year  be- 
tween 1980  and  1986. 

Manufacturing  of  consumer  goods  predominated  in  the  indus- 
trial sector.  About  50  percent  of  manufactured  goods  produced  were 
either  food  products  or  beverages.  Intermediate  goods,  such  as 
chemicals  and  pharmaceuticals,  increased  in  importance  during 
the  1970s  but  still  constituted  only  about  15  percent  of  manufac- 
turing output  in  1986.  El  Salvador  also  had  small  industries  that 
produced  tobacco  products,  petroleum  products,  clothing,  textiles, 
wood  products,  and  paper  products.  Construction  was  the  second 
leading  contributor  to  the  industrial  sector,  but  its  contribution  to 
GDP  was  considerably  less  than  that  of  manufacturing. 

Manufacturing 

The  manufacturing  industry  developed  slowly.  In  1950,  when 
manufacturing  accounted  for  about  7  percent  of  GDP,  it  comprised 


126 


The  Economy 


mostly  cottage  industries.  Of  the  fourteen  larger  manufacturing 
firms  (with  more  than  100  employees),  thirteen  were  located  in  San 
Salvador  and  produced  mainly  textiles,  tobacco,  and  beverages; 
most  of  the  smaller  firms  manufactured  clothing,  shoes,  furniture, 
and  wood  or  straw  products. 

The  development  of  manufacturing  industries  was  slowed  by  a 
shortage  of  reliable  year-round  labor — most  Salvadorans  worked 
seasonally  as  agricultural  laborers — and  an  even  more  acute  lack 
of  skilled  workers.  In  1952,  however,  when  the  government  offered 
tax  breaks  to  small  businesses,  industry  grew  almost  5  percent  a 
year  from  1955  to  1958.  During  this  period,  cement,  chemical,  and 
transportation  equipment  industries  began.  The  intermediate  goods 
sector  was  much  more  dynamic  than  the  capital  goods  sector;  with 
the  development  of  modern  chemical,  pharmaceutical,  and  petro- 
leum product  industries,  it  grew  rapidly  in  the  1960s  and  1970s. 
The  production  of  machinery  and  transport  equipment  remained 
fairly  stable  in  terms  of  its  share  of  the  value  added  for  total  Sal- 
vadoran  manufactured  goods,  rising  from  3  percent  of  total  value 
added  in  1970  to  4  percent  in  1985. 

By  1960  the  manufacturing  sector  represented  14.6  percent  of 
El  Salvador's  GDP,  the  highest  percentage  of  any  Central  Ameri- 
can country  at  the  time.  The  creation  of  the  CACM  boosted  the 
rapid  development  of  manufacturing  firms  in  El  Salvador  through- 
out the  1960s.  By  1965,  following  three  years  of  12  percent  aver- 
age annual  growth,  manufacturing  represented  17.4  percent  of 
GDP.  Between  1961  and  1970,  value  added  in  manufacturing  in- 
creased (in  nominal  terms)  from  US$89.2  million  to  US$194.1 
million. 

The  manufacturing  sector  received  a  temporary  setback  because 
of  the  1969  war  with  Honduras,  which  disrupted  CACM  trade. 
Even  the  CACM's  share  of  Salvadoran  exports  fell  from  40  per- 
cent in  1968  to  32  percent  in  1970.  Nevertheless,  manufacturing 
output  increased  by  a  modest  3.9  percent  in  1969.  Following  the 
war,  however,  foreign  investment  replaced  CACM  trade  as  the 
engine  of  growth  for  the  Salvadoran  manufacturing  industry. 

During  the  1970s,  manufacturing  was  the  most  dynamic  seg- 
ment of  the  Salvadoran  economy,  growing  by  an  impressive  16.8 
percent  yearly  between  1971  and  1978.  Consumer  goods  (especially 
foodstuffs,  textiles,  clothing,  and  shoes)  continued  to  be  the  most 
important  products.  Because  of  the  CACM's  decline,  El  Salvador 
was  forced  to  seek  new  export  markets  like  the  United  States,  which 
in  the  1970s  imported  over  20  percent  of  the  country's  food  ex- 
ports and  almost  35  percent  of  its  exports  of  beverages  and  tobacco 
products.  El  Salvador  also  sought  export  markets  for  textiles  and 


127 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

other  light  manufactures  in  the  United  States  and  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany).  The  project  was  not  com- 
petitive, however,  because  of  poor  product  quality  and  outmoded 
manufacturing  techniques  and  expensive  foreign  materials.  Even- 
tually Japan  and  West  Germany  became  important  export  mar- 
kets for  the  bulk  of  El  Salvador's  nonedible  raw  materials,  fats, 
and  oils. 

Because  foreign  investors  funneled  their  capital  to  industries 
producing  intermediate  goods,  these  industries  increased  in  im- 
portance relative  to  consumer  goods  during  the  1970s.  As  a  result, 
El  Salvador  increased  the  percentage  of  its  exports  of  manufactured 
goods  exported  to  industrialized  countries.  In  1965  over  90  per- 
cent of  Salvadoran  manufactured  exports  went  to  other  develop- 
ing countries  (primarily  CACM  states),  but  by  1986  about  87 
percent  were  being  shipped  to  industrialized  countries.  Overall 
exports  of  manufactured  goods  increased  (in  real  terms)  from  US$32 
million  in  1965  to  US$170  million  in  1986. 

During  the  1980s,  the  manufacturing  sector,  buffeted  by  the  chaos 
of  the  civil  conflict,  labor  unrest,  declining  investor  confidence,  and 
world  recession,  experienced  a  major  decline.  Aside  from  the  gener- 
alized capital  flight  spurred  by  political  instability,  the  second  most 
damaging  effect  of  the  conflict,  after  guerrilla  sabotage  of  the  elec- 
trical grid,  was  attacks  on  factories. 

The  industries  hit  hardest  by  guerrilla  attacks  were  those  producing 
nontraditional  capital  goods  such  as  transportation  equipment,  in- 
termediate goods  such  as  metal  products  and  machinery,  and  capital- 
intensive  consumer  goods  such  as  electric  appliances.  Traditional 
industries  (foodstuffs,  beverages,  tobacco,  wood  products,  and  fur- 
niture) were  least  affected  because  their  factories  tended  to  be  smaller 
and  thus  less  subject  to  guerrilla  attacks.  These  industries  also  had 
well-developed  domestic  markets  and  consequently  were  less  affected 
by  the  1980-82  world  recession.  Exports  of  manufactured  goods 
declined  by  48  percent  in  value  and  almost  80  percent  in  volume 
between  1979  and  1982,  mainly  as  a  result  of  lower  shipments  of 
chemicals,  textiles,  clothing,  and  petroleum  products. 

Labor  unrest  became  a  major  contributing  factor  in  declining 
manufacturing  output.  But  it  is  unclear  whether  or  not  there  is  a 
direct  relationship  between  guerrilla  activity  and  that  unrest.  There 
were,  however,  eighty- six  strikes  in  1979,  involving  almost  23,000 
workers,  compared  with  only  one  strike,  involving  700  workers, 
in  1975. 

Other  Leading  Industries 

The  construction  industry  was  one  of  the  most  dynamic  in  El 
Salvador  during  the  1970s.  Value  added  increased  from  US$50 


128 


The  Economy 


million  in  1977  to  US$80  million  in  1978  but  then  declined  precipi- 
tously, reaching  a  low  of  US$17  million  in  1980.  The  industry 
reported  only  moderate  growth  in  the  early  1980s.  Also,  the  num- 
ber of  workers  employed  in  construction  declined  by  over  75  per- 
cent between  1980  and  1986,  from  13,100  workers  to  only  3,100. 

Paradoxically,  despite  the  industry's  general  decline,  the  num- 
ber of  building  permits  issued  tripled  between  1979  and  1984.  The 
increase,  however,  went  for  housing;  the  number  of  permits  issued 
for  the  construction  of  factories  or  other  commercial  buildings 
dropped  from  320  in  1979  to  only  35  in  1984.  It  is  unclear  whether 
or  not  all  the  approved  buildings  were  actually  built.  When  the 
October  1986  earthquake  prompted  massive  capital  inflows  for 
reconstruction,  however,  the  construction  industry  grew  by  14  per- 
cent in  1987  and  stimulated  the  economy's  2  percent  increase  in 
GDP  that  year. 

El  Salvador's  mining  industry  was  first  established  in  the  late 
nineteenth  century  when  Charles  Butters,  who  had  pioneered  the 
cyanide  process  for  mineral  separation,  opened  several  gold  mines. 
Two  of  his  gold  mines  (San  Sebastian  and  Divisadero)  were  highly 
productive;  the  San  Sebastian  mine  by  itself  yielded  US$16  mil- 
lion worth  of  gold  between  1908  and  1928.  Mining  declined  sig- 
nificantly by  the  early  1930s  because  world  gold  and  silver  prices 
dropped  and  costs  rose.  Mining,  which  generated  only  a  fraction 
of  GDP  in  1987,  has  not  played  an  important  role  in  the  Salva- 
doran  economy  since.  El  Salvador  also  has  deposits  of  silver,  cop- 
per, iron  ore,  sulfur,  mercury,  lead,  zinc,  and  limestone;  of  these, 
only  gold,  silver,  and  limestone  were  mined  in  1987,  and  only  in 
limited  amounts. 

Infrastructure 

El  Salvador's  infrastructure  was  the  primary  target  of  guerrilla 
sabotage  in  the  mid-  to  late  1980s.  Insurgent  forces  of  the  Farabundo 
Marti  National  Liberation  Front  (Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de 
Liberation  Nacional — FMLN)  regularly  damaged  or  disrupted  the 
country's  transportation,  communications,  and  energy  systems  to 
erode  the  government's  popularity.  The  front  hoped  to  emphasize 
the  government's  inability  to  move  the  nation's  economy,  to  in- 
crease the  economic  strain  on  the  country,  and  to  create  the  ' 'ob- 
jective conditions"  necessary  for  a  successful  antigovernment 
insurrection.  Guerrillas  attacked  a  wide  variety  of  economic  tar- 
gets, from  trucks  and  buses  to  bridges,  roads,  and  power  plants, 
but  they  were  not  responsible  for  all  the  damage  to  the  infrastruc- 
ture in  the  1980s.  A  1982  flood  washed  out  numerous  roads  and 
bridges,  and  in  October  1986  an  earthquake  severely  damaged 


129 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

many  water  and  power  plants  and  communications  facilities,  caus- 
ing an  estimated  US$1  billion  in  damage. 

Transportation 

El  Salvador's  transportation  sector,  which  included  railroads, 
major  highways,  and  air  transport,  connected  the  country's  major 
regions  (see  fig.  7).  Even  though  these  systems  were  extensive,  the 
disruptions  of  the  civil  conflict  made  travel  dangerous  and  un- 
dependable. 

El  Salvador  has  had  a  fairly  complete  railroad  system  since  the 
early  twentieth  century.  In  1987  there  were  602  kilometers  of  rail- 
roads in  El  Salvador.  Over  one-half  of  the  tracks  (380  kilometers) 
were  owned  by  Salvador  Railroads,  which  was  built  with  British 
capital  in  the  late  1890s  to  transport  coffee  from  Sonsonate  and 
Santa  Ana  to  the  port  of  Acajutla.  By  1985  Salvador  Railways, 
which  was  nationalized  in  the  mid-1960s,  was  forced  to  curtail  oper- 
ations because  of  guerrilla  attacks. 

By  1980  the  country  had  over  10,000  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which 
some  1,500  were  paved.  The  major  arteries  were  the  Pan  Ameri- 
can Highway  and  the  Carretera  Litoral.  The  Pan  American  High- 
way ran  through  Santa  Ana,  San  Salvador,  and  San  Miguel.  The 
Carretera  Litoral  ran  mainly  along  the  coast  but  also  went  through 
Zacatecoluca  and  Usulutan.  Road  transportation  was  periodically 
blocked  by  the  guerrillas,  who  intermittently  controlled  extensive 
eastern  portions  of  both  highways.  For  example,  during  the  October 
1982  guerrilla  offensive  alone,  more  than  100  vehicles  were  burned 
on  the  Pan  American  Highway.  Truckloads  of  soldiers  were  needed 
to  convoy  fuel  trucks  on  the  highway  between  San  Salvador  and 
San  Miguel.  The  transportation  stoppage  reportedly  caused  a  major 
gasoline  shortage  in  San  Miguel,  where  motorists  sometimes  had 
to  visit  several  service  stations  in  order  to  fill  up  their  tanks.  The 
guerrillas  also  sabotaged  the  Litoral  and  Cuscatlan  bridges,  the  two 
primary  routes  across  the  Rio  Lempa,  one  of  El  Salvador's  most 
significant  geographic  obstacles  (see  fig.  3). 

The  two  major  ports  in  El  Salvador  were  Acajutla  and  La  Union, 
both  large  shipping  ports  with  significant  infrastructure  for  fisher- 
ies. Ilopango  International  Airport,  located  near  San  Salvador,  was 
one  of  Central  America's  most  modern  airports,  and  it  was  the 
only  airport  in  the  country  suitable  for  jet  aircraft.  El  Salvador's 
only  commercial  airline,  Central  American  Air  Transport  (Trans- 
poses Aereos  Centroamericanos — Taca),  owned  seven  commer- 
cial aircraft  that  provided  service  to  Central  America,  Mexico  City, 
Miami,  and  Los  Angeles.  Nevertheless,  considering  its  size  in  the 
late  1980s,  El  Salvador  had  a  large  number  of  airfields.  Of  the 


130 


The  Economy 


country's  138  airfields,  95  were  usable,  but  of  these,  only  5  were 
paved.  Although  noncombatant  crop  dusters  used  most  of  the  air- 
fields, some  were  caught  in  the  crossfire  of  the  civil  conflict.  One 
cotton  cooperative  reported  that  one  of  its  pilots  had  been  killed 
and  that  two  others  had  been  wounded  by  guerrilla  snipers. 

Communications 

Telecommunications  in  El  Salvador,  although  still  not  highly  de- 
veloped, showed  significant  growth  from  the  mid-1960s  to  the 
mid-1980s.  The  country  had  a  nationwide  trunk  radio-relay  sys- 
tem and  was  connected  to  a  Central  American  microwave  network. 
There  were  about  116,000  telephones  in  the  country  in  1986,  or 
about  2.3  phones  for  every  100  people.  This  represented  a  900  per- 
cent increase  over  the  13,000  phones  in  the  country  in  1964. 

The  National  Telecommunications  Administration  (Administra- 
tion Nacional  de  Telecomunicaciones — Antel)  has  owned  and  oper- 
ated the  telephone  and  telegraph  services  since  1963.  The  postal 
service,  operating  under  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  carried  both 
domestic  and  international  mail. 

Throughout  the  civil  conflict,  the  telecommunications  network 
was  devastated  by  the  guerrilla  attacks  on  repeater  stations  and 
on  an  earth  station  parabolic  antenna  for  international  satellite  com- 
munications (see  Left-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  Telephone  func- 
tion boxes  reportedly  were  also  destroyed  daily.  AID  provided 
generators  to  maintain  telephone  service  during  the  frequent  power 
outages  and  also  replaced  damaged  equipment. 

Energy 

Because  El  Salvador  has  no  known  oil  deposits,  it  has  long  de- 
pended on  imported  oil  (which  frequently  has  constituted  a  large 
share  of  total  imports).  The  oil  shocks  of  1973  and  1979  prompted 
the  government  to  develop  alternative  forms  of  energy,  such  as 
hydroelectric  and  geothermal  power.  Although  dependence  on  for- 
eign oil  lessened  during  the  1980s,  about  one-third  of  El  Salvador's 
energy  in  1986  still  came  from  imports.  The  government  owned 
a  monopoly  on  imported  petroleum  products  and  sold  them  at  a 
high  profit  to  domestic  refineries.  In  turn,  to  keep  bus  fares  low 
the  government  used  these  oil  sales  revenues  to  subsidize  diesel  bus 
fuel.  This  policy,  ironically,  greatiy  increased  commercial  and  in- 
dustrial gasoline  prices. 

The  growth  of  energy  production  was  impressive  through  the 
1960s  and  1970s  (largely  as  a  result  of  the  construction  of  geothermal 
and  hydroelectric  power  plants)  but  slowed  significantly  in  the 
1980s.  Energy  production  rose  by  9  percent  a  year  between  1965 


131 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


and  1980  but  decreased  to  only  3.6  percent  a  year  in  1980-86.  The 
growth  in  energy  consumption  also  slowed,  from  7  percent  a  year 
in  the  1965-80  period  to  only  1.5  percent  annually  from  1980  to 
1986.  Per  capita  energy  consumption,  however,  increased  from  140 
to  216  kilogram  equivalents  of  oil  per  capita  between  1965  and  1986. 

From  1981  to  1985,  four  hydroelectric  power  plants  (Guajoyo, 
Cerron  Grande,  5  de  Noviembre,  and  15  de  Septiembre)  provided 
about  50  percent  of  the  country's  electricity,  geothermal  plants 
provided  about  40  percent,  and  thermal  plants  generated  about 
10  percent.  Guerrilla  sabotage  continually  targeted  electric  power 
plants  and  power  lines.  In  fact,  the  steady  growth  in  energy  produc- 
tion and  consumption  was  quite  remarkable,  given  the  frequency 
of  these  attacks.  By  1985  guerrillas  had  destroyed  over  1,000  high- 
tension  electrical  towers  and  had  damaged  almost  every  power  plant 
in  the  country.  During  a  three- week  period  in  January  1986,  guer- 
rilla forces  blew  up  over  120  electrical  posts  and  9  electrical  towers, 
intermittently  leaving  about  85  percent  of  the  country's  popula- 
tion without  electricity. 

To  diminish  the  impact  of  guerrilla  attacks  on  power  plants,  the 
Salvadoran  government  signed  an  agreement  with  Honduras  in 
early  1987  for  the  annual  purchase  of  about  US$15  million  in  energy 
from  the  El  Cajon  hydroelectric  power  plant,  scheduled  to  open 
in  1989.  In  1987  the  government  also  announced  that  a  Belgian 
company  was  planning  to  build  a  US$8  million  geothermal  power 
plant;  the  company  agreed  to  accept  Salvadoran  shrimp  as  barter 
payment. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 

Balance  of  Payments  and  the  External  Sector 

In  1987  El  Salvador  was  one  of  the  few  countries  in  the  world 
to  maintain  a  large  current  account  deficit  and  experience  a  net 
outflow  of  private  capital  while  achieving  a  large  increase  in  inter- 
national reserves.  This  increase  was  equivalent  to  almost  1  per- 
cent of  GDP.  These  seemingly  inconsistent  results  were  reconciled 
by  a  flow  of  US$275  million  in  official  aid  to  El  Salvador,  90  per- 
cent of  which  came  from  AID. 

El  Salvador's  total  exports  equaled  approximately  US$573  mil- 
lion in  1987,  a  decline  of  almost  20  percent  compared  with  1986. 
The  country's  weak  export  performance  reflected  a  deterioration 
in  its  terms  of  trade,  growing  protectionism  in  Organisation  for 
Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD)  countries,  and 
continuing  stagnation  of  the  CACM.  Coffee  prices  fell  35  percent 
from  their  1986  high  levels,  and  other  agricultural  products,  such 


133 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

as  cotton,  sugar,  and  nontraditional  exports,  did  not  compensate. 
In  1987  foreign  assistance  and  emigrant  remittances  surpassed  coffee 
as  the  most  important  sources  of  foreign  exchange.  Both  continued 
to  finance  the  country's  balance  of  payments  deficit  by  an  amount 
equal  to  10  percent  of  GDP.  In  1987  remittances  from  Salvadorans 
living  in  the  United  States  easily  exceeded  the  country's  debt-service 
payments. 

The  total  value  of  imports  in  1987  was  approximately  US$911 
million.  Import  volume  and  value  rose  in  1987  by  about  3  percent 
and  18  percent,  respectively,  stimulated  by  the  recovery  in  the  con- 
struction sector,  the  overvalued  colon,  and  a  moderate  recovery 
in  consumer  spending  (see  table  6,  Appendix).  Raw  materials  con- 
tinued to  account  for  over  50  percent  of  total  imports,  followed  by 
consumer  goods  (24  percent)  and  capital  goods  (23  percent). 

Factor  services  in  1987  (income  from  factors  of  production  em- 
ployed outside  the  owner's  locale,  such  as  interest  paid  on  or 
received  from  external  debt),  remained  in  deficit  in  1987  at  US$127 
million.  With  exports  falling,  the  country's  debt- service  ratio  rose 
to  37  percent  of  exports  in  1987.  A  large  surplus  in  nonfactor  pay- 
ments, consisting  primarily  of  insurance  disbursements  from  the 
1986  earthquake,  negated  a  significant  amount  of  the  factor- service 
deficit,  leaving  a  small  US$14  million  services  account  deficit. 

Trade  with  other  Central  American  countries  continued  to  dimin- 
ish in  1987.  In  1977  El  Salvador  exported  US$216  million,  or  about 
25  percent  of  its  total  exports,  to  other  CACM  countries.  In  1987, 
because  of  the  stagnation  of  the  CACM,  exports  to  this  market 
fell  below  US$100  million,  or  less  than  15  percent  of  total  exports. 
In  turn,  the  fall  of  exports  to  CACM  countries  forced  El  Salvador 
to  solicit  other  trading  partners,  such  as  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  which  increased  Salvadoran  imports  by  their  combined 
total  of  more  than  100  percent  between  1981  and  1987.  Exports 
to  these  two  countries  accounted  for  almost  50  percent  of  Salva- 
doran exports  in  1987.  Even  with  rising  demand,  total  exports 
dropped  by  almost  50  percent  in  dollar  terms  between  1977  and 
1987. 

Trade  and  Trade  Policy 

El  Salvador's  degree  of  dependence  on  imports  of  intermediate 
and  capital  goods  changed  little  between  1978  and  1985.  Moreover, 
its  dependence  on  a  few  agricultural  export  commodities,  such  as 
coffee  and  sugar,  and  its  failure  to  explore  nontraditional  exports 
continued  to  limit  growth  potential.  Despite  government  promo- 
tion of  nontraditional  export  products,  exports  actually  became  less 
diversified  throughout  the  seven-year  period,  with  manufactured 


134 


Cerron  Grande  hydroelectric  project,  northwestern  El  Salvador 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

goods  falling  as  a  share  of  total  exports  from  a  40  percent  share 
to  only  20  percent,  and  coffee  rising  to  a  40  percent  share  from 
24  percent. 

The  country's  import  trade  dependence  also  continued  un- 
changed. Intermediate  and  capital  goods  represented  about  60  per- 
cent of  imports  in  1985.  That  imports  of  these  goods  continued 
to  constitute  such  a  significant  share  of  total  imports  reflected  the 
failure  of  import  substitution  industrialization  (see  Glossary)  pro- 
grams to  replace  imports  with  locally  produced  goods. 

The  value  of  imported  and  exported  goods  and  services  was 
equivalent  to  over  50  percent  of  GDP  in  1985.  Lacking  a  diversi- 
fied export  sector  and  given  its  high  degree  of  dependence  on  im- 
ports of  capital  and  intermediate  goods,  the  Salvadoran  economy 
was  vulnerable  to  variations  in  the  terms  of  trade.  Since  the  world 
market  prices  of  El  Salvador's  primary  exports,  especially  coffee, 
were  highly  volatile,  fluctuations  in  the  terms  of  trade  were  com- 
mon. For  example,  if  1980  equals  100  percent,  the  country's  terms 
of  trade  went  from  72  percent  in  1984  to  90  percent  in  1986  and 
to  54  percent  in  1987.  These  fluctuations  underscored  the  econ- 
omy's instability  and  stunted  the  country's  potential  growth. 

Trade  policy  in  El  Salvador  changed  significantly  between  1 960 
and  1987,  reflecting  the  emergence — and  subsequent  decline — of 
the  CACM,  price  fluctuations  for  coffee  and  other  commodities, 


135 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  evolution  of  the  Salvadoran  economy.  Past  failures  and 
mismanagement  prompted  the  IMF  to  effect  commercial  policy 
changes  in  1982  and  1986. 

The  1 960s  have  been  characterized  as  the  Golden  Age  for  El  Sal- 
vador and  the  rest  of  Central  America.  The  establishment  of  the 
CACM  in  1960  reduced  intraregional  trade  barriers  and  drasti- 
cally cut  import  duties — normally  an  important  source  of  govern- 
ment revenue.  The  CACM  made  it  possible  for  the  Salvadoran 
government  to  pursue  import  substitution  industrialization  poli- 
cies then  in  vogue  in  Latin  America  because  the  reduction  in  in- 
traregional trade  barriers  effectively  increased  aggregate  demand 
for  nontraditional  export  products.  For  El  Salvador — more  than 
for  any  other  CACM  member — these  policies  favored  the  develop- 
ment of  a  significant  manufacturing  sector.  The  protective  tariffs 
established  by  the  CACM  on  manufactured  goods  encouraged  its 
countries  to  develop  competitive  domestic  industries.  Trade  bar- 
riers restricted  imports  of  finished  goods  from  non-CACM  mem- 
bers and  reduced  tariffs  on  foreign  raw  materials. 

Even  with  these  and  other  changes,  however,  El  Salvador's  trade 
policy  continued  to  center  on  the  promotion  of  agricultural  exports, 
a  promotion  essential  to  the  government's  industrialization  plans. 
The  earnings  from  agricultural  exports  were  diverted  (through  ex- 
port taxes  and  other  charges)  to  the  purchase  of  raw  materials, 
machinery,  and  other  unavailable  domestic  capital  goods.  Despite 
the  rapid  growth  of  manufacturing  industries  in  El  Salvador  dur- 
ing the  1960s,  most  manufactured  exports  by  1970  (especially  food 
products,  beverages,  and  textiles)  were  shipped  to  the  CACM. 
Three  export  products — coffee,  cotton,  and  sugar — accounted  for 
90  percent  of  extraregional  exports. 

When  the  CACM  began  to  decline  in  the  1970s,  policymakers 
established  an  industrial  free  zone,  which  provided  some  incen- 
tives to  export  manufactured  goods  outside  the  CACM.  The  in- 
dustries that  were  in  the  free-trade  zone,  however,  tended  toward 
the  production  of  intermediate  goods  that  required  cosdy  imported 
inputs.  Consequently,  these  industries  neither  created  value  added 
for  the  Salvadoran  economy  nor  improved  El  Salvador's  balance 
of  payments  position.  These  new  industries,  however,  increasingly 
tailored  Salvadoran  manufactured  exports  to  North  American  and 
West  European  markets  by  the  end  of  the  1970s.  Nevertheless,  a 
fixed  exchange  rate  program  continued  to  discriminate  against 
exports  because  the  dollar  exchange  rate  remained  overvalued. 
As  a  result  of  this  policy  and  the  country's  increasing  political 
instability,  by  the  end  of  1980  only  four  foreign  companies  con- 
tinued to  operate  joint  ventures  in  the  free- trade  zone. 


136 


Port  expansion  at  Acajutla 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

The  establishment  in  1982  of  a  dual  exchange  rate  pegged  the 
United  States  dollar  at  c 2. 50  on  the  official  market,  while  the  rate 
on  the  parallel  market  fluctuated  with  market  forces.  Until  1985, 
as  the  country  responded  to  balance  of  payments  pressures,  an  in- 
creasing percentage  of  external  transactions  was  shifted  to  the  parallel 
market.  Even  with  the  gradual  shift  of  transactions  toward  the  parallel 
rate,  a  20  percent  real  appreciation  of  the  colon  undercut  the  com- 
petitiveness of  Salvadoran  tradables.  Following  the  rates'  unifica- 
tion in  1986,  the  colon  remained  fixed,  and  currency  was  overvalued. 

Two  other  important  changes  affected  Salvadoran  trade  policy 
in  the  1980s.  First,  producers  of  goods  exported  outside  of  the 
CACM  were  allowed  to  establish  United  States  dollar-denominated 
accounts  in  Salvadoran  banks.  Second,  exporters  of  nontraditional 
goods,  e.g. ,  beverages  and  processed  food,  were  permitted  to  hold 
dollar  accounts  and  sell  them  to  the  Central  Reserve  Bank  at  their 
discretion;  the  exporters  were  not  required  to  report  the  exchange 
rate  of  these  transactions.  In  a  sense,  these  changes  signaled  the 
return  to  a  nonunified  exchange  system. 

Direct  Foreign  Investment  and  External  Debt 

Foreign  capital,  especially  from  the  United  States,  played  a  crucial 
historical  role  in  El  Salvador's  economic  development.  In  the  early 
decades  of  the  twentieth  century,  foreign  capital  (primarily  British, 


137 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

American,  and  Canadian)  contributed  to  the  development  of  a  min- 
ing sector  that  produced  gold  and  silver  for  external  markets.  In- 
vestment from  these  countries  also  spurred  the  development  of  the 
Salvadoran  railroad  and  electrical  systems.  Between  1930  and  1950, 
direct  investment  increased  for  the  processing  of  agricultural  com- 
modities and  for  the  service  sector. 

The  amount  of  foreign  capital  flowing  into  the  Salvadoran  econ- 
omy during  the  1960s  and  1970s  paralleled  the  rise  and  decline 
of  the  CACM.  During  the  1960s,  foreign  capital  supported  the  de- 
velopment of  import  substitution  industries,  such  as  Alcoa's  1963 
joint  venture  to  produce  semi-finished  products  from  imported  in- 
dustrial extrusion  ingot  and  Lenox's  1964  investment  to  produce 
plastic  products.  The  strong  performance  of  the  CACM  during 
the  1960s  attracted  direct  foreign  investment.  Between  1963  and 
1968,  the  stock  of  direct  foreign  investment  increased  from  US$43 
million  to  US$110  million.  Between  1968  and  1978,  however — 
the  period  of  the  CACM's  decline — direct  foreign  investment  in- 
creased to  only  US$124  million.  In  the  1970s,  a  larger  share  of 
direct  foreign  investment  went  to  industries  with  low  value  added, 
like  those  in  the  industrial  free  zone,  rather  than  toward  import 
substitution  industries.  Until  1979  foreign  capital  played  an  im- 
portant role  in  El  Salvador's  most  dynamic  industries,  with  the 
exception  of  brewing  and  cement.  During  the  1980s,  capital  in- 
flows slowed  in  response  to  the  country's  political  and  economic 
instability.  Between  1980  and  1984,  foreign  direct  capital  flowed 
in  at  a  rate  of  about  US$7  million  per  year. 

Increased  foreign  investment,  particularly  in  export- oriented  in- 
dustries, was  an  economic  goal  of  the  Duarte  administration. 
Although  the  instability  engendered  by  the  civil  conflict  militated 
against  it,  the  export  promotion  law  of  1986  sought  to  attract  more 
foreign  capital  by  granting  a  ten-year  (renewable  for  an  additional 
ten-year  period)  exemption  from  most  import  duties  on  inputs  for 
industries  that  exported  at  least  25  percent  of  their  production. 
These  industries  were  also  exempted  from  all  revenue  and  net  worth 
taxes.  In  an  effort  to  simplify  the  often  frustrating  procedure  of 
registering  foreign  firms  with  the  government,  a  central  documen- 
tation center  was  established  to  address  the  needs  of  export-oriented 
firms. 

Salvadoran  external  debt  was  mostly  a  result  of  extensive  govern- 
ment borrowing  after  1979,  which  increased  the  government's  in- 
debtedness from  US$88  million  in  1970  to  US$1 .5  billion  in  1987. 
The  private  sector  owed  US$120  million  to  foreign  creditors  in  1987. 
El  Salvador's  total  external  debt  of  approximately  US$1.7  billion 
represented  less  than  half  of  the  country's  estimated  1987  GDP. 


138 


The  Economy 


As  a  share  of  exports,  debt  service  rose  to  37  percent  from  33  per- 
cent in  1986,  slightly  below  the  debt  service  of  other  large  debtor 
countries  such  as  Brazil,  Mexico,  and  Argentina.  On  a  per  capita 
basis,  El  Salvador's  debt  was  well  below  that  of  Costa  Rica,  Mexico, 
Argentina,  and  Brazil. 

Of  the  country's  total  1987  debt  service  of  US$182  million,  about 
US$113  million  went  toward  principal,  while  only  US$64  million 
went  toward  interest  payments.  Low  interest  payments  reflected 
the  favorable  terms  associated  with  El  Salvador's  external  debt. 
The  average  interest  rate  on  the  debt  in  1987  was  3.1  percent,  and 
the  average  maturity  was  thirty-nine  years,  with  an  average  8.6-year 
interest-free  grace  period.  Thus,  relative  to  other  heavily  indebted 
countries,  El  Salvador's  external  debt  represented  less  of  an  ob- 
stacle to  economic  development.  Over  90  percent  of  the  Salvadoran 
debt  was  held  by  nonprivate  lenders  and  was  publicly  guaranteed. 
Almost  half  of  the  public  debt  was  bilateral,  most  of  it  held  by  the 
United  States  government.  Other  factors,  such  as  the  civil  con- 
flict, deteriorating  terms  of  trade,  and  an  antagonistic  relationship 
between  the  private  sector  and  the  Duarte  administration,  have 
more  adversely  affected  the  country's  economy  than  has  the  govern- 
ment's indebtedness. 

In  addition  to  multilateral  aid  from  the  World  Bank  (see  Glos- 
sary) and  bilateral  aid,  El  Salvador  made  use  of  US$43  million 
of  its  IMF  credit  in  1987.  To  qualify  for  this  credit,  the  govern- 
ment initiated  a  short-term  structural  adjustment  program  with 
limitations  on  credit  and  public  sector  spending  and  the  adoption 
of  monetary  targets,  unification  of  the  exchange  rate  regime,  the 
creation  of  new  export  promotion  incentives,  and  the  formation 
of  an  external  debt  management  committee  to  ensure  that  autono- 
mous and  semiautonomous  institutions  did  not  accumulate  exter- 
nal debt  too  rapidly. 

Future  economic  development  in  El  Salvador  seemed  in  the  late 
1980s  to  be  highly  dependent  on  political  factors.  The  lingering 
instability  caused  by  the  civil  conflict  inhibited  investment,  damaged 
the  infrastructure,  denied  secure  access  to  certain  parts  of  the  coun- 
try, and  forced  the  government  to  allocate  an  abnormally  high  per- 
centage of  its  budget  to  the  military.  Even  a  complete  cessation 
of  hostilities,  however,  would  be  unlikely  to  lead  to  complete  recov- 
ery in  the  short  term,  given  the  structural  shortcomings  of  the 
economy. 

*    *  * 

The  lack  of  broad,  accurate,  and  up-to-date  government  sta- 
tistics from  El  Salvador  is  compensated  for  to  some  extent  by  the 


139 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


working  relationships  established  in  the  late  1980s  between  the  Sal- 
vadoran  government  and  the  IMF  and  the  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  State,  particularly  AID.  Several  Department  of  State  reports 
compiled  by  the  embassy  staff  in  San  Salvador  provide  an  over- 
view of  the  economy.  Because  Salvadoran  statistical  reporting  to 
the  IMF  was  required  by  the  stabilization  packages  implemented 
in  the  mid-1980s,  the  IMF  has  reliable  statistics  for  the  country. 
A  good  source  for  both  economic  and  political  reporting  is  the  quart- 
erly Country  Profile:  Guatemala,  El  Salvador,  Honduras  produced  in  Lon- 
don by  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  A  more  historical 
perspective  on  the  economy  is  provided  by  Marc  W.  Herold's  ar- 
ticle "Finanzekapital  in  El  Salvador,  1900-80,"  as  well  as  by  David 
Browning's  El  Salvador:  Landscape  and  Society.  (For  further  informa- 
tion and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


140 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Voter  casting  his  ballot 


SINCE  THE  REFORMIST  COUP  of  1979,  El  Salvador  has 
experienced  wrenching  political  turmoil  as  numerous  actors,  move- 
ments, and  forces  contended  for  the  right  to  shape  the  country's 
future.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  most  extreme  of  these  forces — the 
oligarchic  elite  and  the  Marxist- Leninist  guerrilla  forces — appeared 
to  have  lost  some  of  their  previous  influence,  as  a  still-tentative 
democratic  process  continued  to  evolve  amid  trying  circumstances. 
The  United  States  loomed  large  in  this  process  as  the  country's 
major  source  of  economic  and  military  aid  and  assistance  and  the 
most  enthusiastic  foreign  supporter  of  its  democratic  efforts.  De- 
spite consistent  support  from  Washington  and  a  certain  amount 
of  progress  in  human  rights  and  economic  reform,  many  prob- 
lems remained  intractable,  and  the  overall  political  situation 
was  still  volatile  and,  to  some  extent,  unpredictable.  The  con- 
servative Nationalist  Republican  Alliance  underscored  this  fact  by 
capturing  a  surprising  legislative  majority  in  the  March  1988 
elections. 

Although  the  system  established  by  the  Constitution  of  1983 
was  functional,  some  observers  questioned  its  legitimacy  because 
it  excluded  the  Salvadoran  left  from  the  political  process.  As  the 
1989  presidential  elections  approached,  however,  these  claims 
lost  some  of  their  validity  in  the  face  of  the  return  to  El  Salvador 
of  such  opposition  figures  as  Guillermo  Manuel  Ungo  Revelo 
and  Ruben  Zamora  Rivas,  the  establishment  of  the  Social  Demo- 
cratic Party  and  the  possibility,  however  dubious,  of  a  settlement 
between  the  government  and  the  Farabundo  Marti  National 
Liberation  Front-Revolutionary  Democratic  Front  within  the 
framework  of  the  Central  American  Peace  Agreement  signed  in 
Esouipulas,  Guatemala,  on  August  7,  1987  (the  so-called  Arias 
Plan). 

Observers  were  reluctant  to  predict  the  odds  of  successful 
implemention  of  a  genuine  democratic  system  in  El  Salvador,  a 
country  with  no  real  democratic  tradition  to  draw  on,  where  eco- 
nomic conditions  were  tenuous  at  best  and  where  a  destructive  and 
divisive  insurgent  conflict  wore  on  with  no  resolution  in  sight.  It 
was  clear,  however,  that  the  El  Salvador  of  the  late  1980s  was  differ- 
ent from  the  El  Salvador  of  the  1970s  and  that  further  change  was 
inevitable,  even  if  the  exact  nature  of  that  change  remained  un- 
certain. 


143 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Constitutional  Background 

The  Constitutions  of  El  Salvador,  1824-1962 

El  Salvador  has  functioned  under  fifteen  constitutions  since  it 
achieved  independence  from  Spain  in  the  early  nineteenth  century. 
The  vast  majority  of  these  documents  were  drafted  and  promul- 
gated without  the  benefit  of  broad  popular  input  or  electoral  man- 
date. The  nature  of  the  country's  elite-dominated  political  system 
and  the  personalistic  rule  of  presidents  drawn  from  either  the  oligar- 
chy or  the  military  accounted"  for  the  relatively  short  life  span  of 
most  of  these  documents.  Some  of  them  were  drafted  solely  to  pro- 
vide a  quasi-legal  basis  for  the  extension  of  a  president's  term, 
whereas  others  were  created  to  legitimize  seizures  of  power  on  an 
ex  post  facto  basis. 

The  first  Salvadoran  constitution  was  produced  in  1824.  It 
declared  El  Salvador  independent  as  a  member  of  the  United 
Provinces  of  Central  America  (see  El  Salvador  and  the  United 
Provinces  of  Central  America,  ch.  1).  The  dissolution  of  the  United 
Provinces  necessitated  the  promulgation  of  a  new  constitution  in 
1841  as  El  Salvador  emerged  as  an  independent  republic  in  its  own 
right.  The  1841  constitution  was  a  liberal  document  that  estab- 
lished a  bicameral  legislature  and  set  a  two-year  term  for  the  na- 
tion's president  with  no  possibility  of  reelection.  The  latter  feature 
contributed  directly  to  the  demise  of  the  document  in  1864,  when 
President  Gerardo  Barrios  dispensed  with  it  and  extended  his  term 
by  legislative  decree. 

That  same  year,  Barrios  replaced  the  1841  constitution  with  one 
that,  not  surprisingly,  increased  the  presidential  term  to  four  years 
and  allowed  for  one  reelection.  This  issue  of  presidential  tenure 
proved  to  be  a  major  point  of  contention  for  the  next  two  decades. 
The  1871  constitution,  drafted  by  resurgent  liberal  forces,  restored 
the  two-year  term,  prohibited  immediate  reelection,  and  strength- 
ened the  power  of  the  legislative  branch.  This  document  too, 
however,  fell  victim  to  individual  ambition  when  President  San- 
tiago Gonzalez  replaced  it  with  the  constitution  of  1872,  which 
restored  the  four-year  term.  Similarly,  the  constitution  of  1880  was 
used  to  extend  the  term  of  President  Rafael  Zaldivar.  The  four- 
year  term  was  retained  in  the  constitution  of  1883,  but  presiden- 
tial tenure  was  reduced  to  three  years  in  the  constitution  of  1885. 
The  latter  document,  although  it  never  formally  came  into  force, 
owing  to  the  overthrow  of  Zaldivar  by  Francisco  Menendez,  was 
nonetheless  an  influential  piece  of  work,  primarily  because  it  formed 
the  basis  for  the  constitution  of  1886,  the  most  durable  in  Salva- 
doran history. 

The  constitution  of  1886  provided  for  a  four-year  presidential 
term  with  no  immediate  reelection  and  established  a  unicameral 


144 


Government  and  Politics 


legislature.  Some  limits  on  presidential  power  were  incorporated, 
most  notably  the  stricture  that  all  executive  decrees  or  orders  had 
to  comply  with  the  stated  provisions  of  the  constitution.  This  con- 
stitutional litmus  test  of  executive  action  was,  at  least  in  theory, 
a  significant  step  toward  an  institutionalized  governmental  system 
and  away  from  the  arbitrary  imposition  of  power  by  self-serving 
caudillos.  The  constitution  of  1886  showed  remarkable  staying 
power  by  Salvadoran  standards,  remaining  in  force  in  its  original 
form  until  January  1939.  It  was  reinstated  in  amended  form  after 
World  War  II.  The  1939  constitution  that  filled  the  wartime  gap 
was  designed  by  President  Maximiliano  Hernandez  Martinez  to 
ensure  his  uninterrupted  rule;  it  increased  the  presidential  term 
from  four  to  six  years.  Martinez's  effort  to  extend  his  rule  still  fur- 
ther by  inserting  a  provision  for  the  one-time  legislative  election 
of  the  president  was  one  of  several  grievances  fueling  the  public 
unrest  that  drove  him  from  office  in  1944. 

The  wartime  constitution  was  revised  in  that  same  year.  Although 
technically  titled  the  Reforms  of  1944,  this  document  is  also  some- 
times referred  to  as  the  Constitution  of  1944.  It  was  supplanted 
in  1945  by  yet  another  charter,  the  constitution  of  1945,  which  en- 
dured for  only  one  year.  The  1886  constitution,  in  amended  form, 
was  reinstated  in  1946.  These  changes  reflected  the  political  un- 
certainty that  prevailed  in  El  Salvador  between  the  termination  of 
Martinez's  long  tenure  as  president  and  the  advent  of  the  military- 
led  Revolution  of  1948. 

The  constitution  that  grew  out  of  the  Revolution  of  1948,  under 
which  Oscar  Osorio  was  elected  president,  was  the  constitution  of 
1950.  It  retained  a  unicameral  legislature  and  changed  the  name 
from  National  Assembly  to  Legislative  Assembly.  The  1950  charter 
also  restored  a  six-year  presidential  term  with  no  immediate  re- 
election and,  for  the  first  time,  granted  Salvadoran  women  the  right 
to  vote. 

A  Constituent  Assembly  appointed  by  the  military-civilian  junta 
and  headed  by  Colonel  Julio  Adalberto  Rivera  drafted  a  document 
that  was  promulgated  as  the  constitution  of  1962  but  that  was  ba- 
sically quite  similar  to  the  1950  constitution.  Relatively  long  lived 
by  Salvadoran  standards,  it  was  not  superseded  until  1983,  by  which 
time  the  personal  and  political  guarantees  of  the  constitution  had 
been  suspended  by  a  state  of  emergency. 

The  Constitution  of  1983 

The  Political  Setting 

The  sixty-member  Constituent  Assembly  elected  in  March  1982 
was  charged  with  producing  a  new  constitution.  This  new  document 


145 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


was  expected  to  institutionalize,  although  perhaps  in  modified  form, 
the  reform  measures  taken  by  the  various  junta  governments  after 
1979;  it  was  also  to  serve  as  the  master  plan  for  a  system  of  represen- 
tative democratic  government.  In  addition  to  crafting  the  struc- 
ture of  that  government,  the  Constituent  Assembly  was  responsible 
for  issuing  a  schedule  for  presidential  elections. 

A  majority  of  the  members,  known  as  deputies,  of  the  Consti- 
tuent Assembly  represented  conservative  political  parties.  All  told, 
conservative  parties  had  drawn  approximately  52  percent  of  the 
total  popular  vote.  The  moderate  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Par- 
tido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC)  had  garnered  35.5  percent.  These 
results  equated  to  twenty-four  seats  for  the  PDC  and  thirty-six  seats 
for  a  loose  right-wing  coalition  made  up  of  the  Nationalist  Repub- 
lican Alliance  (Alianza  Republicana  Nacionalista — Arena),  the  Na- 
tional Conciliation  Party  (Partido  de  Conciliation  Nacional — PCN), 
Democratic  Action  (Action  Democratica — AD),  the  Salvadoran 
Popular  Party  (Partido  Popular  Salvadorefio — PPS),  and  the  Popu- 
lar Orientation  Party  (Partido  de  Orientation  Popular — POP). 
Representatives  of  these  five  parties  issued  a  manifesto  in  March 
1982  decrying  both  communism  and  Christian  democratic  com- 
munitarianism  and  declaring  that  both  ideologies  had  been  rejected 
by  the  people  by  way  of  the  ballot  box.  The  coalition  leaders  sug- 
gested that  they  were  preparing  to  limit  Christian  democratic  in- 
fluence on  the  drafting  of  the  constitution  and  to  exclude  the  PDC 
from  participation  in  the  interim  government  that  was  to  be  named 
by  the  Constituent  Assembly. 

The  original  exclusionary  aims  of  the  rightist  coalition,  however, 
were  never  completely  fulfilled.  During  its  existence,  from  April 
1982  through  December  1983,  the  Constituent  Assembly  came 
under  pressure  from  a  number  of  sources,  most  significantly  from 
the  United  States  government  and  the  Salvadoran  military.  United 
States  envoys  from  both  the  White  House  and  Congress  pressed 
Salvadoran  political  leaders  to  incorporate  the  PDC  into  the  in- 
terim government  and  to  preserve  the  reform  measures,  particu- 
larly agrarian  reform.  At  stake  was  the  continuation  of  United  States 
aid,  both  economic  and  military,  without  which  El  Salvador  would 
have  been  hard  pressed  to  sustain  its  democratic  transition  in  the 
face  of  growing  military  and  political  pressure  from  the  Farabundo 
Marti  National  Liberation  Front-Revolutionary  Democratic  Front 
(Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de  Liberation  Nacional-Frente 
Democratico  Revolucionario — FMLN-FDR),  the  leftist  guerrilla 
(the  FMLN)  and  political  (FDR)  opposition  groups  that  unified 
in  1981  in  an  effort  to  seize  power  by  revolutionary  means  (see 
The  Civil  Conflict  Begins,  ch.  1).  El  Salvador's  military  High 


146 


Government  and  Politics 


Command  (Alto  Mando)  recognized  this  reality  and  lent  its  con- 
siderable influence  to  the  cause  of  continued  PDC  participation 
in  government.  The  Christian  Democrats  had  been  brought  into 
the  junta  governments  at  the  urging  of  reformist  officers;  by  1982 
the  PDC  and  the  military  had  come  to  a  practical  understanding 
based  on  their  shared  interest  in  maintaining  good  relations  with 
the  United  States,  expanding  political  participation,  improving  eco- 
nomic conditions  for  the  average  Salvadoran,  and  fending  off  the 
challenge  from  the  Marxist  left.  Realistically,  the  last  objective  was 
preeminent  and  encompassed  the  other  three.  Lesser  influence  was 
exerted  on  the  deputies  by  popular  opinion  and  demonstrations 
of  support  for  specific  reforms.  For  example,  campesino  groups 
staged  rallies  outside  the  Constituent  Assembly's  chambers  to  press 
their  demand  for  continuation  of  the  agrarian  reform  decrees. 

The  actual  drafting  of  the  constitution  was  delegated  by  the  Con- 
stituent Assembly  to  a  special  commission  composed  of  represen- 
tatives of  all  the  major  political  parties.  The  assembly  agreed  to 
reinstate  the  1962  constitution  with  only  a  few  exclusions  until  a 
constitution  was  produced  and  approved.  At  the  same  time,  the 
deputies  voted  to  affirm  the  validity  of  the  decrees  issued  by  the 
junta  governments,  including  those  that  enacted  agrarian,  bank- 
ing, and  foreign  commerce  reforms.  Having  reestablished  a  working 
legal  framework,  the  assembly  voted  itself  the  power  to  act  as  a 
legislature  through  the  passage  of  constituent  decrees. 

Since  it  could  not  serve  as  both  the  legislative  and  the  executive 
branch,  the  Constituent  Assembly  was  required  to  approve  the  ap- 
pointment of  a  provisional  president.  Many  observers  believed  that 
Arena  leader  Roberto  D' Aubuisson  Arrieta,  who  was  elected  presi- 
dent of  the  assembly  on  April  22,  1982,  was  the  most  likely  candi- 
date. D'Aubuisson's  reputed  ties  with  the  violent  right  wing, 
however,  militated  against  him.  It  was  reported  that  the  United 
States  and  the  Salvadoran  High  Command  lobbied  persuasively 
against  D'Aubuisson's  appointment,  mainly  on  the  grounds  that 
his  negative  image  outside  El  Salvador  would  complicate,  if  not 
preclude,  the  provision  of  substantial  aid  from  Washington.  Ap- 
parently swayed  by  this  argument,  the  members  of  the  Constituent 
Assembly  appointed  Alvaro  Magana  Borja,  a  political  moderate 
with  ties  to  the  military,  to  the  post  on  April  26.  In  an  effort  to 
maintain  a  political  equilibrium,  Magana' s  cabinet  included  mem- 
bers of  all  three  major  parties— Arena,  the  PDC,  and  the  PCN. 

Despite  its  defeat  on  the  issue  of  the  provisional  presidency,  Arena 
continued  to  hold  the  balance  of  power  in  El  Salvador  through  its 
leadership  of  the  conservative  majority  in  the  Constituent  Assem- 
bly. The  areneros  (members  or  adherents  of  Arena)  vented  their 


147 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

frustration  with  the  political  process  primarily  in  the  area  of  agrarian 
reform.  In  May  1982,  Magana  proposed  a  partial  suspension  of 
Phase  III  of  the  reform,  the  Land  to  the  Tiller  program,  for  the 
1982-83  harvest  season  in  order  to  avoid  agricultural  losses  occa- 
sioned by  the  transfer  of  land  titles  (see  Agrarian  Reform,  ch.  2). 
The  Arena-led  coalition  in  the  assembly  seized  on  this  proposal 
and  expanded  it  to  include  some  95  percent  of  Phase  III  landhold- 
ings.  This  action  was  interpreted  by  interested  parties  both  in  El 
Salvador  and  abroad  as  a  bid  by  the  right  to  eliminate  agrarian 
reform  and  to  encourage  the  eviction  of  land  recipients,  a  process 
that  was  ongoing  at  the  time,  although  its  extent  was  difficult  to 
quantify;  it  led  directly  to  a  limitation  by  the  Senate  Foreign 
Relations  Committee  of  the  United  States  Congress  on  military 
and  Economic  Support  Funds  (ESF)  aid  to  El  Salvador.  Although 
Arena's  most  important  domestic  constituency — the  economic 
elite — continued  to  advocate  the  limitation  if  not  the  elimination 
of  agrarian  reform,  it  was  clear  that  such  efforts  in  the  Constituent 
Assembly  would  have  negative  repercussions.  The  failure  of  Arena's 
leadership  to  take  this  fact  into  account  and  its  seeming  inability — or 
unwillingness — to  seek  compromise  and  accommodation  on  this 
and  other  issues  contributed  to  its  eventual  loss  of  influence  among 
center-right  assembly  delegates  and  the  military  leadership. 

In  August  1982,  in  an  effort  to  bring  the  areneros  under  control 
and  to  prevent  them  from  sabotaging  not  only  the  reforms  but 
perhaps  the  entire  fledgling  democratic  system,  Magana,  appar- 
ently at  the  strong  urging  of  the  military  chiefs  and  the  United 
States,  brought  together  representatives  of  Arena,  the  PDC,  and 
the  PCN  to  negotiate  a  "basic  platform  of  government."  In  what 
became  known  as  the  Pact  of  Apaneca,  the  parties  agreed  on  cer- 
tain broad  principles  in  the  areas  of  democratization,  the  protec- 
tion of  human  rights,  the  promotion  of  economic  development,  the 
preservation  of  economic  and  social  reforms,  and  the  protection 
of  the  country's  security  in  the  face  of  the  violent  conflict  with  leftist 
insurgent  forces.  Organizationally,  the  pact  established  three  com- 
missions: the  Political  Commission  to  work  out  a  timetable  and 
guidelines  for  future  elections,  the  Human  Rights  Commission  to 
oversee  and  promote  improvements  in  that  area,  and  the  Peace 
Commission  to  explore  possible  resolutions  of  the  civil  conflict.  The 
guidelines  established  by  the  pact  eased  the  chaotic  governmental 
situation  to  some  degree;  they  were  also  significant  in  that  they 
brought  Arena  into  a  formal  governmental  association  with  more 
moderate  actors,  such  as  the  PDC,  and  committed  the  areneros,  at 
least  in  principle,  to  the  preservation  of  some  degree  of  reform. 


148 


Government  and  Politics 


The  pact  did  not  put  an  end  to  infighting  among  the  political 
parties,  however.  Magafia,  lacking  a  political  power  base  or  con- 
stituency beyond  the  good  will  of  the  military,  found  it  frustrating 
to  try  to  exert  authority  over  his  cabinet  ministers,  particularly  those 
drawn  from  the  ranks  of  Arena.  This  conflict  came  to  a  head  in 
December  1982,  when  Magafia  dismissed  his  health  minister,  an 
arenero,  for  refusing  to  comply  with  the  president's  directives.  Arena 
party  leadership  advised  the  minister  to  reject  the  president's  action 
and  to  retain  his  post.  This  proved  to  be  a  miscalculation  on  the 
part  of  Arena,  as  Magafia  went  on  to  have  the  dismissal  approved 
by  a  majority  of  the  Constituent  Assembly.  Again  in  this  instance, 
the  behind-the-scenes  support  of  the  military  worked  in  favor  of 
the  provisional  president  and  against  Arena. 

The  damage  done  to  Arena's  prestige  by  the  dismissal  of  the 
health  minister  was  compounded  by  the  party's  efforts  to  influence 
the  appointment  of  his  successor.  Magafia  proposed  a  member  of 
the  small,  moderate  AD  for  the  post.  The  areneros,  particularly  Con- 
stituent Assembly  president  D'Aubuisson,  saw  this  (not  without 
justification)  as  an  effort  to  diminish  their  influence  in  the  govern- 
ment and  sought  to  defeat  the  appointment  through  parliamen- 
tary maneuvering.  They  succeeded  only  in  delaying  approval, 
however.  Furthermore,  after  the  vote  the  assembly  amended  its 
procedures  to  limit  the  power  of  the  assembly  president. 

Arena  was  not  the  only  party  to  see  its  standing  diminish  after 
the  signing  of  the  Pact  of  Apaneca.  The  PCN  delegation  in  the 
Constituent  Assembly  suffered  a  rupture  immediately  after  the  sign- 
ing of  the  pact,  as  nine  conservative  deputies  split  from  the  party 
to  establish  a  bloc  they  dubbed  the  Salvadoran  Authentic  Institu- 
tional Party  (Partido  Autentico  Institucional  Salvadorefio — PAISA). 
This  move  left  the  assembly  more  or  less  evenly  split  between  con- 
servative and  centrist  deputies. 

The  special  commission  charged  with  drafting  the  constitution 
finished  its  work  in  June  1983.  At  that  time,  it  reported  that  it  had 
reached  agreement  in  almost  all  respects.  Two  major  exceptions, 
however,  were  agrarian  reform  and  the  schedule  and  procedure 
for  presidential  elections.  These  issues  were  left  to  the  Constituent 
Assembly  to  resolve. 

Of  all  the  constitutional  provisions  debated  in  the  Constituent 
Assembly,  those  dealing  with  agrarian  reform  were  the  most  con- 
tentious. In  light  of  the  decline  in  the  Arena  coalition's  standing 
and  influence  and  the  corresponding  gains  of  the  PDC  and  its 
moderate  allies,  eliminating  the  reforms  altogether  was  ruled  out. 
The  conservatives  retained  enough  clout,  however,  to  limit  the  pro- 
visions of  the  original  decrees.  Their  major  victory  in  this  regard 


149 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

was  the  raising  of  the  maximum  allowable  landholding  under  Phase 
II  of  the  reform  from  100  to  245  hectares,  an  action  that  addressed 
the  concerns  of  some  well-to-do  landowners  but  that  put  a  crimp 
in  redistribution  efforts  by  reducing  the  amount  of  land  subject 
to  expropriation.  After  the  1982-83  suspension,  the  Constituent 
Assembly  twice  extended  Phase  III  of  the  reform;  the  government 
accepted  applications  for  title  under  this  phase  until  July  1984. 

Aside  from  the  sections  dealing  with  agrarian  reform,  the  draft 
constitution  was  approved  by  the  Constituent  Assembly  without 
an  excess  of  debate.  One  exception  was  the  article  dealing  with 
the  death  penalty.  The  version  finally  approved  by  the  assembly 
endorsed  capital  punishment  only  in  cases  covered  by  military  law 
when  the  country  was  in  a  state  of  declared  war.  These  restric- 
tions effectively  eliminated  the  death  penalty  from  the  Salvadoran 
criminal  justice  system.  Consideration  of  the  draft  document  by 
the  full  Constituent  Assembly  began  in  August  1983;  the  final  ver- 
sion was  approved  by  that  body  in  December.  The  effective  date 
of  the  Constitution  was  December  20,  1983.  The  Constituent 
Assembly,  having  completed  its  mandate,  was  dismissed  at  that 
point,  only  to  be  reconvened  on  December  22  as  the  Legislative 
Assembly.  The  membership  of  the  body  remained  the  same. 

The  Document 

The  Constitution  of  1983  is  in  many  ways  quite  similar  to  the 
constitution  of  1962,  often  incorporating  verbatim  passages  from 
the  earlier  document.  Some  of  the  provisions  shared  by  the  two 
charters  include  the  establishment  of  a  five-year  presidential  term 
with  no  reelection,  the  right  of  the  people  to  resort  to  "insurrec- 
tion" to  redress  a  transgression  of  the  constitutional  order,  the 
affirmation  (however  neglected  in  practice)  of  the  apolitical  nature 
of  the  Salvadoran  armed  forces,  the  support  of  the  state  for  the 
protection  and  promotion  of  private  enterprise,  the  recognition  of 
the  right  to  private  property,  the  right  of  laborers  to  a  minimum 
wage  and  a  six-day  work  week,  the  right  of  workers  to  strike  and 
of  owners  to  a  lockout,  and  the  traditional  commitment  to  the 
reestablishment  of  the  Republic  of  Central  America  (see  El  Sal- 
vador and  the  United  Provinces  of  Central  America,  ch.  1). 

The  Constitution  consists  of  11  titles,  subdivided  into  274  articles. 
Title  One  enumerates  the  rights  of  the  individual,  among  them  the 
right  to  free  expression  that  "does  not  subvert  the  public  order," 
the  right  of  free  association  and  peaceful  assembly  for  any  legal  pur- 
pose, the  legal  presumption  of  innocence,  the  legal  inadmissibility 
of  forced  confession,  and  the  right  to  the  free  exercise  of  religion — 


150 


Government  and  Politics 


again,  with  the  stipulation  that  such  exercise  remain  within  the 
bounds  of  "morality  and  public  order." 

Title  One,  however,  also  specifies  the  conditions  under  which 
constitutional  guarantees  may  be  suspended  and  the  procedures 
for  such  suspension.  The  grounds  for  such  action  include  war,  in- 
vasion, rebellion,  sedition,  catastrophe  (natural  disasters),  epidemic, 
or  "grave  disturbances  of  the  public  order."  The  declaration  of 
the  requisite  circumstances  may  be  issued  by  either  the  legislative 
or  the  executive  branch  of  government.  The  suspension  of  con- 
stitutional guarantees  lasts  for  a  maximum  of  thirty  days,  at  which 
point  it  may  be  extended  for  an  additional  thirty  days  by  legisla- 
tive decree.  The  declaration  of  suspension  of  guarantees  grants  juris- 
diction over  cases  involving  "crimes  against  the  existence  and 
organization  of  the  state"  to  special  military  courts.  The  military 
courts  that  functioned  from  February  1984  until  early  1987  under 
a  suspension  of  guarantees  (or  state  of  siege)  were  commonly  known 
as  Decree  50  courts,  after  the  legislative  decree  that  established 
them. 

According  to  the  Constitution,  all  Salvadorans  over  eighteen  years 
of  age  are  considered  citizens.  As  such,  they  have  both  political 
rights  and  political  obligations.  The  rights  of  the  citizen  include 
the  exercise  of  suffrage  and  the  formation  of  political  parties  "in 
accordance  with  the  law"  or  the  right  to  join  an  existing  party. 
The  exercise  of  suffrage  is  listed  as  an  obligation  as  well  as  a  right, 
making  voting  mandatory.  Failure  to  vote  has  technically  been  sub- 
ject to  a  small  fine,  a  penalty  rarely  invoked  in  practice. 

Voters  are  required  to  have  their  names  entered  in  the  Electoral 
Register.  Political  campaigns  are  limited  to  four  months  preced- 
ing presidential  balloting,  two  months  before  balloting  for  legisla- 
tive representatives  (deputies),  and  one  month  before  municipal 
elections  (see  Political  Dynamics,  this  ch.).  Members  of  the  clergy 
and  active-duty  military  personnel  are  prohibited  from  member- 
ship in  political  parties  and  cannot  run  for  public  office.  Moreover, 
the  clergy  and  the  military  are  enjoined  from  " carry [ing]  out  poli- 
tical propaganda  in  any  form."  Although  military  personnel  are 
not  denied  suffrage  by  the  Constitution,  the  armed  forces'  leader- 
ship routinely  instructed  its  personnel  to  refrain  from  voting  in  order 
to  concentrate  on  providing  security  for  polling  places. 

Title  Five  defines  the  outlines  of  the  country's  "Economic 
Order."  As  noted,  private  enterprise  and  private  property  are 
guaranteed.  The  latter  is  recognized  as  a  "social  function,"  a  phrase 
that  may  function  as  a  loophole  for  the  potential  expropriation  of 
unproductive  land  or  other  holdings.  Individual  landowners  are 
limited  to  holdings  of  no  more  than  245  hectares  but  may  dispose 


151 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

of  their  holdings  as  they  see  fit.  The  expropriation  of  land  may 
be  undertaken  for  the  public  benefit  in  the  "social  interest"  through 
legal  channels  and  with  fair  compensation. 

Amendment  of  the  Constitution  is  not  a  simple  procedure.  Initial 
approval  of  an  amendment  (or  "reform")  requires  only  a  major- 
ity vote  in  the  Legislative  Assembly.  Before  the  amendment  can 
be  incorporated,  however,  it  must  be  ratified  by  a  two-thirds  vote 
in  the  next  elected  assembly.  Since  legislative  deputies  serve  three- 
year  terms,  an  amendment  could  take  that  long  or  longer  to  win 
passage  into  law. 

Governmental  Institutions 

The  Constitution  of  1983  affirms  the  Salvadoran  government 
as  republican,  democratic,  and  representative,  as  had  the  con- 
stitution of  1962.  The  government  is  divided  into  executive, 
legislative,  and  judicial  branches.  The  military,  although  not  a  con- 
stitutional branch  of  government  per  se,  exerts  considerable  in- 
fluence over  the  country's  governance  and  serves  as  the  most 
immediate  representative  of  the  government  for  many  Salvadorans, 
particularly  those  in  rural  areas  and  in  the  zones  most  affected  by 
the  insurgency. 

The  Executive 

The  executive  branch  is  made  up  of  the  president  of  the  repub- 
lic, the  vice  president,  ministers  and  vice  ministers  of  state,  and 
their  subordinate  officials  (see  fig.  8).  The  president  must  be  Sal- 
vadoran by  birth,  over  thirty  years  of  age,  of  good  character,  and 
a  member  of  a  legally  recognized  political  party.  The  president  is 
elected  by  direct  popular  vote,  serves  a  five-year  term,  and  may 
not  run  for  reelection.  Several  categories  of  individuals  are 
proscribed  from  seeking  the  office  of  president:  anyone  who  has 
held  the  office  of  president  for  more  than  six  months  prior  to  the 
beginning  of  a  presidential  term;  the  spouse  or  relatives  to  the  fourth 
degree  of  consanguinity  of  said  officeholder;  anyone  who  had  held 
the  office  of  president  of  the  Legislative  Assembly  or  president  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  for  one  year  prior  to  the  beginning 
of  a  presidential  term;  anyone  who  has  held  the  post  of  minister, 
vice  minister,  or  head  of  an  official  autonomous  institution  for  the 
same  one-year  period;  or  any  professional  member  of  the  military 
who  is  or  has  been  on  active  duty  during  a  three-year  period  prior 
to  the  beginning  of  a  term.  The  same  restrictions  apply  to  those 
holding  the  offices  of  vice  president  or  designado  (the  two  individu- 
als designated  by  the  legislature  as  next  in  line  after  the  vice  presi- 
dent for  presidential  succession). 


152 


Government  and  Politics 


The  powers  of  the  president  are  circumscribed  to  some  extent 
by  the  Constitution.  The  president  requires  the  approval  of  the 
Legislative  Assembly  in  order  to  leave  the  country.  He  is  required 
to  report  to  the  assembly  upon  request  on  any  subject  except  secret 
military  strategy.  In  addition,  the  president  can  be  declared  phys- 
ically or  mentally  incapacitated  by  a  two- thirds  vote  of  the  assembly. 

The  president  is  charged  with  the  "direction  of  foreign  relations" 
and  is  designated  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces.  He 
is  required  to  report  to  the  Legislative  Assembly  within  the  first 
two  months  of  each  year  on  developments  within  the  country  and 
the  government  during  the  course  of  the  previous  calendar  year 
(the  Salvadoran  "state  of  the  union"  address). 

Ministers  and  vice  ministers  are  named  and  removed  by  the  presi- 
dent. They  are  required  to  be  Salvadoran  by  birth  and  over  twenty- 
five  years  of  age.  Together  with  the  president  and  vice  president, 
the  Council  of  Ministers  (or  cabinet)  produces  the  government 
plan — the  projected  requirements  of  the  government  for  the  com- 
ing year — and  proposes  a  budget  to  the  assembly  at  least  three 
months  before  the  beginning  of  the  fiscal  year. 

The  Legislature 

The  legislature  is  a  unicameral  body  known  as  the  Legislative 
Assembly.  Its  members  are  referred  to  as  deputies  (diputados) .  They 
are  elected  every  three  years  according  to  a  system  of  proportional 
representation.  The  assembly  elected  in  March  1988  was  composed 
of  sixty  deputies  and  sixty  alternates  (suplentes). 

There  is  no  restriction  on  the  reelection  of  deputies.  To  serve 
in  this  capacity,  however,  one  must  be  a  Salvadoran  by  birth  and 
over  twenty-one  years  of  age.  Those  prohibited  from  seeking  elec- 
tion to  the  assembly  include  the  president  and  vice  president  of 
the  republic,  government  ministers  and  vice  ministers,  active-duty 
military  personnel,  and  relatives  of  the  president  within  the  fourth 
level  of  consanguinity  or  the  second  level  of  affinity.  Elected 
deputies,  however,  may  serve  as  ministers  or  vice  ministers,  heads 
of  official  autonomous  institutions,  or  chiefs  of  diplomatic  missions. 
Such  individuals  do  not  participate  in  the  business  of  the  assembly 
but  may  be  reintegrated  into  that  body  at  the  conclusion  of  their 
service  in  such  a  post. 

The  powers  of  the  Legislative  Assembly  are  considerable.  It  is 
the  body  that  determines  the  statutory  laws  of  El  Salvador.  It  has 
the  power  to  levy  taxes,  to  ratify  or  reject  treaties  negotiated  by 
the  executive  branch  with  foreign  governments  or  international 
organizations,  and  to  regulate  the  civil  service.  The  assembly  also 
wields  the  power  of  the  purse  as  the  body  that  approves  the  national 


153 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


>>■ 


35 

Oco 

LU  < 


_itr 

<  LU 

tri 

00 


>5 

o 


rz<LU 

III 

Otr< 
°Po 


co 

H 

OUR 

1- 

O 

co 

LU 

2 

O 

1- 

< 
LU 

RS 

CL 
LU 

ll 

X 

LL 

0 

LL 

CO 

O 

(- 

UR 

LU 

O 

O 

(- 

O 

JUS 

CO 

U.QO 
ujluo 

o 


WO 

zLu 

2§ 


Oo 
cc? 

LUZ 

z 
< 


co 


LULUZ 
(-XLU 
COH-Q 
ZLJrCO 

—  Olij 
2  cc 

CL 


0*0 

coo^ 
zcc^ 
S2i 


28 
I 

5LU 


o> 
cc^ 

So 

HZ 

COO 


CO 

Occ 
ccO 

wo 


5  co 

LL<£ 

oc^cc 

LU<LU 
H-HJCO 

!2ij 
?o< 

mO 

CL 


LLQ 

o< 


h-z 

coo 

ZLU 


Oct 
ccQ 

LU  CC 
I—  LU 

z? 
2 


Olu 
CCO 
LUZ 
l-< 
COZ 
ZU. 

2 


ccmq 

yco 


CO 


•  CO 


5q! 


OQ2 

1 —  > 

coO_i 

CO 


2* 

OCo 

Z-5 


154 


Government  and  Politics 


budget  in  its  final  form.  Perhaps  just  as  important  in  a  political 
sense  is  the  assembly's  power  to  place  individuals,  through  a  major- 
ity vote,  in  the  following  posts:  president  (chief  justice)  and  magis- 
trates of  the  Supreme  Court,  president  of  the  Central  Electoral 
Council,  president  and  magistrates  of  an  independent  government 
auditing  body  known  as  the  Court  of  Accounts  (Corte  de  Cuen- 
tas),  the  attorney  general,  and  the  procurator  general.  By  naming 
to  these  positions  members  of  parties  or  factions  opposed  to  the 
president,  the  Legislative  Assembly  can  (and  has,  in  some  instances) 
impede  the  workings  of  government  to  a  significant  degree.  The 
assembly  also  has  the  power  to  declare  war,  ratify  peace  treaties, 
and  grant  amnesty  for  political  offenses  or  common  crimes. 

Legislation  may  be  introduced  not  only  by  deputies  but  also  by 
the  president,  by  way  of  his  ministers;  the  Supreme  Court,  in  the 
case  of  laws  pertaining  to  the  judiciary;  and  local  municipal  coun- 
cils, with  regard  to  municipal  taxation.  A  presidential  veto  of  a 
law  passed  by  the  Legislative  Assembly  may  be  overridden  by  a 
two-thirds  vote  of  that  body.  The  executive  may  raise  objections 
to  a  law  on  constitutional  grounds;  in  such  a  case,  the  Supreme 
Court  serves  as  the  arbiter.  If  a  law  submitted  to  the  Supreme  Court 
by  the  president  is  ruled  to  be  constitutional,  the  president  is  com- 
pelled to  sign  it  into  law. 

The  Judiciary 

The  judicial  branch  of  government  is  headed  by  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Justice.  The  number  of  magistrates  on  the  Supreme  Court 
is  not  stipulated  in  the  Constitution  but  is  determined  by  other  sta- 
tutes. Magistrates  are  required  to  be  Salvadoran  by  birth,  more 
than  forty  years  of  age,  and  lawyers  who  have  practiced  for  at  least 
ten  years  or  who  have  served  as  judges  in  a  chamber  of  second 
instance  for  six  years  or  on  a  court  of  first  instance  for  nine  years. 
Clergymen  are  prohibited  from  serving  as  magistrates.  The  presi- 
dent of  the  Supreme  Court  directs  the  business  of  the  Supreme 
Court  and  functions  as  the  head  of  the  judicial  branch.  Magistrates 
are  appointed  by  the  Legislative  Assembly  to  five-year  terms. 

The  Supreme  Court  is  divided  into  three  chambers,  or  solas.  The 
Constitutional  Chamber  (Sala  de  lo  Constitucional),  composed  of 
the  Supreme  Court  president  and  four  other  magistrates,  rules  on 
the  constitutionality  of  laws  and  hears  cases  involving  the  invoca- 
tion of  amparo  (restraint  against  the  infringement  of  an  individual's 
rights)  or  of  habeas  corpus.  The  remaining  chambers  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  the  Civil  Chamber  and  the  Criminal  Chamber, 
serve  as  the  last  level  of  appeal  in  these  legal  categories. 


155 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Below  the  Supreme  Court  are  the  chambers  of  second  instance, 
or  courts  of  appeal.  Each  chamber  is  composed  of  two  magistrates, 
who  hear  appeals  of  decisions  handed  down  in  the  courts  of  first 
instance.  There  were  fourteen  chambers  of  second  instance  in  1986. 
The  courts  of  first  instance  hear  both  civil  and  criminal  cases;  there 
were  some  eighty-seven  such  courts  in  1986.  The  broadest  level 
of  the  legal  system  is  the  justice  of  the  peace  courts.  Numbering 
approximately  193  in  1986  and  located  throughout  the  country, 
the  justice  of  the  peace  courts  decide  only  cases  involving  mis- 
demeanors and  minor  civil  suits. 

The  Military 

The  constitutional  role  of  the  Salvadoran  armed  forces  is  spelled 
out  in  Title  Six,  Chapter  Eight  of  the  Constitution.  The  military 
is  charged  with  maintaining  a  representative  democratic  form  of 
government,  enforcing  the  no-reelection  provision  for  the  coun- 
try's president,  guaranteeing  freedom  of  suffrage,  and  respecting 
human  rights.  The  armed  forces  as  an  institution  is  defined  as 
"essentially  apolitical"  and  obedient  to  established  civilian  author- 

It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  such  documents  tend  to  reflect 
ideals  and  goals  for  conduct,  not  the  prevailing  state  of  affairs  at 
the  time  of  their  drafting.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  Salvadoran  armed 
forces  was  an  evolving  institution  attempting  to  deal  simultane- 
ously with  a  left-wing  insurgency  and  the  institutionalization  of  a 
democratic  form  of  government  while  also  seeking  to  deflect  what 
it  perceived  as  threats  to  its  internal  cohesion.  One  such  threat  was 
the  potential  investigation  and  possible  prosecution  of  officers  on 
human  rights  charges,  many  of  them  connected  with  the  prosecu- 
tion of  the  war  against  the  guerrillas,  although  such  action  was  ren- 
dered less  likely  by  the  amnesty  approved  by  the  Legislative 
Assembly  in  1987  as  well  as  by  the  political  ascendancy  of  Arena 
(see  The  Criminal  Justice  System,  ch.  5).  Given  its  history,  the 
heightened  importance  of  its  role  in  dealing  with  the  insurgents, 
and  its  interest  in  preserving  its  institutional  integrity,  the  Salva- 
doran military  certainly  exerted  political  influence,  particularly  in 
areas  of  policy  directly  related  to  national  security.  Indeed,  the 
armed  forces  was  expected  by  all  political  actors  in  the  country  to 
play  a  role  in  the  country's  affairs,  and  its  power  and  influence 
were  accepted  by  all  those  participating  in  the  democratic  system. 

Since  the  political  influence  of  the  armed  forces,  usually  exerted 
through  the  High  Command,  was  exercised  largely  behind  the 
scenes,  it  was  in  many  ways  difficult  to  measure.  There  were  indi- 
cations, however,  that  the  military  was  attempting  to  cooperate 


156 


Government  office  buildings  at  Government  Center,  San  Salvador 

with  civilian  democratic  leaders.  The  minister  of  defense  and  public 
security,  General  Carlos  Eugenio  Vides  Casanova,  accompanied 
President  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes  to  the  October  1984  meet- 
ing with  representatives  of  the  FMLN-FDR  in  La  Palma  (see  Left- 
Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  General  Vides  also  appeared  before  the 
Legislative  Assembly  a  number  of  times  at  the  request  of  that  body 
to  testify  on  military  issues.  Both  the  air  force,  by  restricting  aerial 
bombing,  and  the  security  forces,  by  showing  restraint  in  dealing 
with  radical  demonstrators  in  San  Salvador,  followed  directives  laid 
down  by  the  president  (see  The  Military  under  Democratic  Rule, 
1984-88,  ch.  5).  Perhaps  the  best  evidence  of  military  restraint 
under  the  emerging  democratic  system  was  the  fact  that,  as  of  late 
1988,  the  High  Command  had  made  no  move  to  overthrow  the 
existing  government  by  force,  despite  several  reported  appeals  from 
Salvadoran  political  factions  to  do  so. 

Another  important  development  with  regard  to  the  military's 
political  role  concerned  its  relationship  with  other  actors,  particu- 
larly the  elite  and  the  political  parties.  By  supporting  a  govern- 
ment headed  by  a  Christian  democratic  president  and  assisting  in 
the  implementation  of  agrarian  reform  measures,  the  armed  forces 
demonstrated  in  the  1980s  that  their  previous  ties  with  the  elite, 
particularly  the  agrarian  elite,  no  longer  compelled  them  to  resist 
almost  every  form  of  social  and  political  change.  The  dissociation 
by  the  military  from  direct  institutional  support  of  any  political 


157 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

party — in  contrast  to  its  virtual  control  of  the  PCN  during  the  1960s 
and  1970s — also  enhanced  the  armed  forces'  political  independence. 

Local  Government 

El  Salvador  is  divided  into  fourteen  administrative  divisions  called 
departments,  the  equivalent  of  states  in  the  United  States  (see 
fig.  1).  Each  department  is  administered  by  a  governor  appointed 
by  the  president.  An  alternate  for  each  governor  is  also  designated. 
Governors  must  be  Salvadoran  by  birth,  over  twenty-five  years 
of  age,  and  residents  of  their  department  for  at  least  two  years  prior 
to  their  appointment. 

Below  the  departmental  level,  El  Salvador  is  divided  into  261 
municipalities  (or  municipios,  the  equivalent  of  counties  in  the  United 
States).  Each  municipio  is  governed  by  a  municipal  council  com- 
posed of  a  mayor  {alcalde),  a  legal  representative  (stndico),  and  two 
or  more  council  members  (regidores).  The  number  of  regidores  is  de- 
termined by  the  population  of  the  municipio.  Members  of  the 
municipal  councils  must  be  more  than  twenty-one  years  of  age  and 
residents  of  the  municipio  in  which  they  serve.  Directly  elected, 
municipal  officials  serve  three-year  terms  and  may  be  reelected. 
Municipios  are  not  all  of  equal  size  but  are  required  to  have  a  popu- 
lation of  at  least  10,000;  municipal  boundaries  are  determined  by 
the  Legislative  Assembly. 

The  powers  of  local  government  are  circumscribed  by  those  of 
the  central  government.  Because  department  governers  are  ap- 
pointed by  the  president,  their  independence  is  questionable. 
Despite  their  status  as  elected  representatives,  the  powers  of 
municipal  officeholders  are  also  limited  in  certain  key  areas.  The 
most  glaring  example  is  taxation.  Although  the  municipal  coun- 
cils are  allowed  to  suggest  local  taxes  and  tax  rates,  only  the  Legis- 
lative Assembly  has  the  power  to  actually  levy  taxes.  Therefore, 
all  funds  utilized  by  the  councils  are  appropriated  and  disbursed 
by  the  assembly,  although  such  funds  are  earmarked  in  the  bud- 
get and  are  not  incorporated  into  the  central  government's  gen- 
eral fund.  Among  the  duties  relegated  to  the  municipal  councils 
under  the  Salvadoran  Municipal  Code  are  the  holding  of  town  meet- 
ings (cabildos  abiertos)  at  least  once  every  three  months.  The  coun- 
cil is  enjoined  from  acting  against  the  majority  opinion  expressed 
at  the  cabildos  abiertos.  The  municipal  councils  also  grant  legal 
recognition  (personalidadjuridica)  to  communal  associations  in  their 
municipios.  The  councils  are  required  to  meet  periodically  with 
representatives  of  the  communal  associations  and  to  consult  with 
them  on  the  appointment  of  representatives  to  advisory  and  other 


158 


Government  and  Politics 


local  commissions.  The  councils  also  issue  local  ordinances  and 
regulations. 

Political  Dynamics 
Electoral  Procedures 

Electoral  procedures  in  El  Salvador  are  governed  by  the  Elec- 
toral Code,  which  was  updated  by  the  Legislative  Assembly  in  Janu- 
ary 1988.  The  system  it  established  is  in  some  ways  cumbersome 
and  open  to  abuse  but  adheres  closely  to  electoral  procedures  fol- 
lowed in  most  Latin  American  countries. 

The  organization  in  charge  of  administering  electoral  procedures 
is  the  Central  Electoral  Council  (Consejo  Central  de  Elecciones), 
which  consists  of  three  members  and  three  alternates  elected  for 
five-year  terms  by  the  Legislative  Assembly.  Nominees  for  the  coun- 
cil are  drawn  from  the  ranks  of  the  leading  political  parties  or  coa- 
litions, as  determined  by  the  vote  totals  in  the  most  recent 
presidential  elections.  The  president  of  the  Central  Electoral  Council 
serves  as  the  chief  administrator  and  the  ultimate  authority  on  ques- 
tions of  electoral  procedures. 

In  order  to  cast  their  votes,  all  citizens  are  required  to  obtain 
from  the  Central  Electoral  Council  an  electoral  identification  card 
(carnet  electoral)  certifying  their  inscription  in  the  national  Electoral 
Register.  The  carnet  electoral  is  presented  at  the  individual's  polling 
place  and  is  the  only  form  of  identification  accepted  for  this  pur- 
pose. The  card  must  bear  the  voter's  photograph,  signature  (if  liter- 
ate), and  right  thumbprint.  The  carnet  electoral  is  valid  for  five  years 
from  the  date  of  issue. 

The  issuing  of  carnets  electorates  and  the  related  maintenance  of 
the  Electoral  Register  are  the  most  cumbersome  aspects  of  the  elec- 
toral system,  particularly  in  rural  areas  where  voters'  access  to  their 
municipal  electoral  boards  frequently  is  impeded  by  poor  trans- 
portation and  the  effects  of  the  insurgent  war.  Rural  voter  regis- 
tration has  also  been  hampered  by  direct  and  indirect  coercion  by 
the  guerrilla  forces,  who  have  described  national  elections  as  a  sham 
and  a  component  of  a  United  States-designed  counterinsurgency 
strategy.  These  and  other  factors,  including  a  general  disenchant- 
ment with  the  electoral  process  based  in  large  part  on  the  failure 
of  the  government  to  end  the  insurgency  and  improve  economic 
conditions,  contributed  to  a  gradual  decline  in  voter  turnout  dur- 
ing the  1982-88  period.  Whereas  some  80  percent  of  the  elec- 
torate turned  out  for  the  Constituent  Assembly  balloting  in  1982, 
only  an  estimated  65  percent  voted  in  the  first  round  of  presiden- 
tial balloting  in  March  1984.  This  was  followed  by  turnouts  of 


159 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

approximately  66  and  60  percent  in  the  1985  and  1988  legislative 
and  municipal  elections,  respectively. 

The  Central  Electoral  Council,  in  coordination  with  its  depart- 
mental and  municipal  electoral  boards,  determines  the  number  and 
location  of  polling  places.  This  process  is  to  be  completed  at  least 
fifteen  days  prior  to  balloting.  Although  the  Electoral  Register  and 
final  vote  tallies  are  processed  at  least  partially  by  computer,  paper 
ballots  are  utilized  at  the  polling  places.  Ballots  are  deposited  in 
clear  plastic  receptacles  to  reduce  the  possibility  of  fraud.  All  political 
parties  are  entitled  to  station  a  poll  watcher  at  each  balloting  site 
to  reduce  further  the  opportunity  for  vote  manipulation. 

Polling  places  are  open  from  7:00  A.M.  until  5:00  P.M.,  at  which 
time  the  officials  at  each  site  begin  the  preparation  of  an  official 
record  of  the  results.  This  record  includes  a  preliminary  vote  count 
by  party,  an  inventory  of  ballots  issued  to  the  polling  place  (the 
discrepancy  between  ballots  issued  and  ballots  used  is  not  to  exceed 
300),  and  accounts  of  challenges  received  and  any  unusual  inci- 
dents or  occurrences  during  the  course  of  the  voting.  Poll  watch- 
ers scrutinize  the  record's  preparation  and  are  entitled  to  a  copy 
of  the  final  product.  As  a  result,  political  parties  frequently  are  able 
to  issue  preliminary  electoral  results  well  in  advance  of  the  official 
tally. 

These  records  from  the  polling  places  are  forwarded  to  the  local 
municipal  electoral  board,  where  a  record  for  the  entire  municipio 
is  prepared.  The  municipal  voting  records  are  conveyed  to  the  Cen- 
tral Electoral  Council  by  way  of  the  departmental  electoral  boards. 
The  council  conducts  the  final  scrutiny  of  the  records;  this  process 
must  be  undertaken  no  later  than  forty-eight  hours  after  the  clos- 
ing of  the  polls.  Copies  of  voting  records  are  also  provided  to  the 
office  of  the  attorney  general  as  a  further  safeguard  against  tam- 
pering. 

In  the  case  of  presidential  elections,  the  Central  Electoral  Council 
can  declare  a  winner  only  if  one  ticket  receives  an  absolute  majority 
of  all  votes  cast.  If  no  one  party  or  coalition  receives  such  a  majority, 
as  happened  in  the  March  1984  elections,  the  council  is  required 
to  schedule  within  thirty  days  a  runoff  election  between  the  two 
leading  vote-getters.  The  declaration  of  winners  in  legislative  bal- 
loting is  less  direct;  here,  voters  cast  their  ballots  for  parties  more 
than  for  individuals,  since  seats  in  the  Legislative  Assembly  are 
allotted  to  registered  candidates  roughly  on  a  proportional  basis 
according  to  the  departmental  vote  totals  of  their  party  or  coali- 
tion. Municipal  elections  are  more  straightforward,  with  the  win- 
ners decided  according  to  their  showing  in  the  municipal  vote  tallies. 


160 


Voters  in  line  at  a  polling  place 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

The  protracted  insurgent  war  exerted  pressure  on  the  govern- 
ment to  adjust  its  electoral  procedures.  In  areas  where  guerrilla 
control  prevented  the  establishment  of  polling  places,  voters  were 
urged  to  cast  their  ballots  at  the  nearest  secure  location.  Some  polling 
places  in  departmental  capitals  were  required  to  have  on  hand  elec- 
toral records  for  rural  voters  who  had  relocated  from  war  zones. 
In  some  towns,  so-called  national  polling  stations  were  set  up  to 
accommodate  displaced  voters  from  other  departments.  These  sta- 
tions were  required  to  have  on  hand  electoral  registration  data  for 
the  entire  country.  Guerrilla-engineered  transportation  stoppages, 
attacks  on  public  buildings,  and  sabotage  of  the  electrical  system 
impeded  voting  as  well,  especially  in  rural  areas.  Indeed,  many 
of  these  actions  were  undertaken  with  the  specific  intention  of 
deterring  voters  from  participation. 

In  addition  to  overseeing  elections,  the  Central  Electoral  Coun- 
cil is  also  charged  with  the  official  recognition  of  political  parties. 
Initial  petitions  to  the  council  for  the  formation  of  a  party  require 
the  support  of  at  least  100  citizens.  This  group  then  is  granted  sixty 
days  to  secure  the  signatures  of  at  least  3,000  citizens  and  submit 
them  to  the  council.  If  all  the  signatures  are  verified,  the  party  is 
then  granted  legal  recognition,  referred  to  as  inscription  (inscrip- 
cion).  The  party's  inscription  can  be  revoked  if  it  fails  to  receive 
at  least  0.5  percent  of  the  total  national  vote  cast  in  a  presidential 


161 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

or  legislative  election,  or  if  the  party  fails  to  participate  in  two  con- 
secutive elections.  Parties  are  allowed  to  form  coalitions  at  the  na- 
tional, departmental,  or  municipal  levels  without  forfeiting  their 
separate  inscriptions. 

Political  campaigns  are  underwritten  to  some  extent  by  the  state 
through  the  provision  for  "political  debt."  The  Electoral  Code 
stipulates  that  each  party  can  expect  to  receive  reimbursement 
according  to  the  following  formula:  clO  (for  value  of  colon — see 
Glossary)  for  each  valid  vote  cast  for  the  party  in  the  first  round 
of  a  presidential  election,  c6  for  each  vote  in  legislative  elections, 
and  c4  for  each  vote  in  municipal  elections.  All  parties  are  eligible 
for  payment,  regardless  of  their  showing  at  the  polls. 

The  Electoral  Process 

From  March  1982  to  March  1988,  Salvadorans  went  to  the  polls 
five  times  to  cast  their  ballots  for  members  of  the  Constituent 
Assembly  (later  converted  to  the  Legislative  Assembly),  the  presi- 
dent, deputies  of  the  Legislative  Assembly,  and  municipal  officials. 
This  flurry  of  electoral  activity  was  occasioned  by  the  transition 
to  a  functional  representative  system  of  government,  a  decidedly 
new  experience  for  Salvadorans. 

The  first  round  of  the  1984  presidential  election  was  held  on 
March  25.  Some  1 .4  million  Salvadorans  went  to  the  polls.  Although 
eight  candidates  competed,  most  voters  cast  their  ballots  for  the 
representative  of  one  of  the  three  leading  parties,  the  PDC's  Duarte, 
Arena's  D'Aubuisson,  or  the  PCN's  Francisco  Jose  Guerrero 
Cienfuegos.  The  results  were  not  immediately  decisive.  Duarte 
received  43  percent  of  the  vote,  D'Aubuisson  30  percent,  and 
Guerrero  19.  This,  necessitated  a  runoff  election  on  May  6  between 
Duarte  and  D'Aubuisson.  Despite  entreaties  from  Arena,  Guerrero 
declined  to  endorse  either  candidate.  It  is  doubtful  that  his  endorse- 
ment would  have  made  much  difference  in  the  balloting,  given 
Duarte 's  relative  popularity  and  D'Aubuisson's  reputed  connec- 
tions with  right-wing  violence  and  the  disapproval  of  his  candidacy 
by  the  United  States  government.  It  was  reported  in  the  United 
States  press  after  the  election  that  the  United  States  Central  Intel- 
ligence Agency  had  funneled  some  US$2  million  in  covert 
campaign  aid  to  the  PDC.  Nevertheless,  the  results  of  the  runoff 
were  surprisingly  close,  with  Duarte  garnering  54  percent  to 
D'Aubuisson's  46  percent.  Some  observers  criticized  the  presiden- 
tial election  on  the  grounds  that  it  excluded  parties  of  the  left,  such 
as  those  represented  by  the  FDR.  Political  conditions  at  that  time, 
however,  were  not  favorable  to  participation  by  such  groups.  If 
nothing  else,  the  inability  of  the  government  to  provide  for  the 


162 


Government  and  Politics 


physical  security  of  leftist  candidates  militated  against  their  inclu- 
sion in  the  electoral  process. 

The  1985  legislative  and  municipal  elections  were  carried  over- 
whelmingly by  the  PDC.  The  party  achieved  an  outright  majority 
in  the  Legislative  Assembly,  increasing  its  representation  from 
twenty-four  to  thirty-three  seats,  and  carried  over  200  of  the  coun- 
try's municipal  councils.  Arena  and  the  PCN  joined  as  a  two-party 
coalition  for  these  elections  in  an  effort  to  secure  a  conservative 
majority  in  the  assembly.  The  terms  of  the  coalition,  whereby  Arena 
agreed  to  split  evenly  the  total  number  of  seats  won,  resulted  in 
a  political  embarrassment  for  D'Aubuisson's  party,  which  took  29 
percent  of  the  total  vote  but  was  awarded  only  one  more  seat  (thir- 
teen to  twelve)  than  the  PCN,  which  had  drawn  only  8  percent 
of  the  vote.  PAIS  A  and  AD  also  won  one  seat  apiece. 

The  style  of  Salvadoran  political  campaigning  bore  little  resem- 
blance to  that  of  the  United  States  and  other  institutionalized 
democracies.  Personal  verbal  attacks  between  competing  candidates 
and  parties  predominated  in  the  media,  in  campaign  literature, 
and  at  public  rallies.  Debate  on  specific  issues  was  largely  eschewed 
in  favor  of  emotional  appeals  to  the  electorate.  It  was  therefore  not 
uncommon  to  hear  candidates  and  leaders  of  the  PDC  refer  to  Arena 
as  a  "Nazi-fascist  party,"  whereas  areneros  openly  denounced  Chris- 
tian Democrats  as  "communists."  One  of  Arena  leader  D'Aubuis- 
son's favorite  campaign  embellishments  was  to  slash  open  a 
watermelon  with  a  machete;  the  watermelon,  he  told  the  crowds, 
was  like  the  PDC — green  (the  party  color)  on  the  outside  but  red 
on  the  inside.  This  dramatic,  personalistic  type  of  appeal  highlighted 
the  lack  of  institutionalization  of  the  Salvadoran  democratic  sys- 
tem, the  intensity  of  emotion  elicited  by  the  political  process,  and 
the  polarizing  effect  of  the  ongoing  struggle  between  the  govern- 
ment and  leftist  insurgent  forces.  Observers  reported,  however, 
that  Arena  spokesmen  toned  down  their  appeals  during  the  1988 
legislative  and  municipal  elections  in  an  effort  to  project  a  moder- 
ate, responsible  image. 

Political  Parties 

By  1988  El  Salvador  had  a  number  of  registered  political  par- 
ties participating  in  the  democratic  process.  Only  three,  however, 
had  significant  folio  wings:  the  PDC,  Arena,  and  the  PCN. 

Christian  Democratic  Party 

The  ideological  position  of  the  Christian  Democratic  Party 
(Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC)  was  more  liberal  than  that 
of  most  Christian  democratic  parties  elsewhere  in  Latin  America 


163 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

or  in  Western  Europe.  In  the  Salvadoran  context,  taking  into 
account  the  existence  of  radical  leftist  groups  such  as  those  con- 
stituting the  FMLN-FDR,  the  PDC  could  be  characterized  as  a 
party  of  the  center-left.  The  party  was  born  out  of  the  frustration 
of  urban  middle-class  professionals  who  felt  themselves  excluded 
from  the  political  process  in  El  Salvador  (see  The  Christian 
Democrats:  A  Centrist  Alternative?  ch.  1).  From  its  founding  in 
1960  until  the  early  1980s,  the  party  and  its  leaders  showed  con- 
siderable tenacity  and  staying  power  in  the  face  of  right-wing  repres- 
sion, the  adamant  refusal  of  the  economic  and  political  elite  (with 
the  backing  of  the  military)  to  allow  broad-based  popular  partici- 
pation in  government,  and  the  eventual  defection  of  some  of  its 
members  to  the  radical  left,  in  the  form  of  the  FDR.  The  year  1979 
was  a  turning  point  for  the  Christian  Democrats,  as  it  was  for  the 
country  as  a  whole.  Party  leaders'  participation  in  the  junta  govern- 
ments established  after  the  reformist  coup  gave  them  an  opportu- 
nity to  organize  and  prepare  to  participate  in  the  democratic  process 
initiated  in  1982.  Their  involvement  also  attracted  the  support  of 
the  United  States.  Despite  its  failure  to  win  a  majority  of  the  seats 
in  the  1982  balloting  for  the  Constituent  Assembly,  the  PDC 
nonetheless  emerged  from  that  election  as  the  leading  political  party 
in  the  country,  a  position  it  went  on  to  demonstrate  in  the  1984 
and  1985  elections. 

The  PDC  reached  the  peak  of  its  power  after  the  1985  elections. 
At  that  point,  Duarte  was  still  a  popular  figure.  The  party's  abso- 
lute majority  in  the  legislature  was  seen  by  him  and  his  fellow  Chris- 
tian Democrats  as  a  mandate  for  the  continuation  and  extension 
of  reforms.  The  opposition  was  weakened  and  divided.  Resent- 
ment among  the  areneros  over  their  unsuccessful  coalition  with  the 
PCN  provoked  a  rupture  between  the  two  conservative  parties.  Sub- 
sequently, the  PCN  became  more  supportive  of  the  PDC  and  its 
political  program. 

Duarte  and  his  party  used  their  control  of  the  executive  and  legis- 
lative branches  to  further  the  agrarian  reform  program  first  estab- 
lished by  decree  in  1980,  to  draft  a  new  Electoral  Code,  to  approve 
an  amnesty  for  political  prisoners,  and  to  pass  additional  economic 
reform  measures.  The  momentum  that  had  seemed  so  compelling 
in  the  wake  of  the  March  elections,  however,  was  eroded  by  events 
and  was  eventually  lost  in  the  tumult  of  politics  and  insurgency. 
Perhaps  the  first  of  the  blows  to  the  PDC's  position  was  the  kid- 
napping of  the  president's  daughter,  Ines  Guadalupe  Duarte  Duran, 
in  September  1985.  This  incident  preoccupied  Duarte  personally, 
so  that  his  support  within  the  armed  forces  weakened,  and  a 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


leadership  vacuum  developed  in  both  the  government  and  the  PDC 
(see  Left- Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5). 

Another  major  dilemma  for  the  PDC  government  was  the  direc- 
tion of  a  war-ravaged  economy.  Although  it  could  be  justified  on 
an  economic  basis,  Duarte's  1986  package  of  austerity  measures 
drew  political  fire  from  most  major  interest  groups  (see  Interest 
Groups,  this  ch.;  Role  of  Government,  ch.  3).  The  associated  cur- 
rency devaluation,  always  a  controversial  step,  was  especially  un- 
popular. The  impression  that  the  president  implemented  the 
austerity  measures  largely  in  response  to  pressure  from  the  United 
States  also  did  little  to  enhance  his  prestige  or  that  of  the  party. 

For  most  Salvadorans,  the  civil  conflict  and  its  attendant  vio- 
lence were  the  problems  of  uppermost  concern,  especially  insofar 
as  pocketbook  issues  such  as  inflation,  standard  of  living,  and  em- 
ployment were  seen  as  closely  related  to  the  war  against  the  leftist 
guerrillas.  Duarte's  personal  popularity  was  boosted  after  the 
October  1984  meeting  in  La  Palma  with  representatives  of  the 
FMLN-FDR;  a  war-weary  population  began  to  believe  that  a  reso- 
lution to  the  conflict  might  be  in  sight.  These  optimistic  expecta- 
tions, however,  were  dampened  considerably  as  the  negotiating 
process  bogged  down  and  stalled.  The  kidnapping  of  Duarte's 
daughter  further  hardened  the  president's  attitude  and  rendered 
the  prospect  of  a  negotiated  settlement  during  his  administration 
highly  unlikely.  Although  the  majority  of  Salvadorans  had  little 
sympathy  for  the  FMLN,  Duarte's  failure  to  achieve  peace  nonethe- 
less undermined  his  popularity  and  diminished  the  public  percep- 
tion of  the  PDC  as  a  viable  mediator  between  the  extremes  of  left 
and  right. 

Another  issue  that  tarnished  the  reputation  of  the  PDC  was  cor- 
ruption. Rumors  and  allegations  that  had  become  common  in  El 
Salvador  came  to  a  head  in  March  1988  with  the  publication  of 
an  article  in  the  New  York  Times  indicating  that  as  much  as  US$2 
million  in  United  States  economic  aid  might  have  been  embezzled. 
One  of  the  individuals  named  in  the  article  was  an  associate  of 
Alejandro  Duarte,  the  president's  son.  Although  the  president  him- 
self was  never  linked  with  corrupt  practices  of  any  kind,  the  ap- 
parent failure  of  other  members  of  the  PDC  to  resist  the  temptations 
of  office  was  a  blow  to  the  image  of  a  party  that  had  throughout 
its  history  protested  and  decried  the  abuses  of  power  perpetrated 
under  previous  governments. 

The  post- 1985  decline  in  the  fortunes  of  the  PDC  government 
closely  paralleled  a  general  popular  disillusionment  with  the 
democratic  process.  By  1987  polls  conducted  by  the  Central  Ameri- 
can University  Jose  Simeon  Canas  showed  that  slightly  over 


165 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

three-quarters  of  the  electorate  felt  that  no  existing  political  party 
represented  their  interests.  Of  those  respondents  who  did  express 
a  party  preference,  only  6  percent  identified  with  the  PDC  and 
10  percent  with  Arena. 

Given  the  lack  of  clearly  demonstrable  progress  in  the  economic, 
political,  and  security  spheres,  most  observers  correctly  predicted 
that  the  PDC  would  lose  its  legislative  majority  in  the  March  1988 
elections.  The  scale  of  that  loss,  however,  was  greater  than  most 
had  anticipated.  The  final  official  vote  count  yielded  thirty  Legis- 
lative Assembly  seats  for  Arena,  twenty-three  for  the  PDC,  and 
seven  for  the  PCN.  Arena's  leaders  initially  protested  the  results, 
claiming  that  they  had  captured  at  least  thirty-one  seats  and  thus 
a  majority  in  the  legislature.  The  protest  was  rendered  academic 
in  May  1988,  when  a  PCN  deputy  switched  his  party  allegiance 
to  Arena.  A  September  1988  ruling  by  the  Supreme  Court  awarded 
the  contested  seat  to  Arena,  raising  its  majority  to  thirty-two.  In 
a  stunning  turnaround,  the  Christian  Democrats  had  dropped 
eleven  seats  in  the  assembly  and  lost  more  than  200  municipal  races 
to  Arena.  A  particularly  sharp  blow  to  PDC  pride  was  the  loss  of 
the  mayoralty  of  San  Salvador,  a  post  the  party  had  held  continu- 
ously since  Duarte's  election  as  mayor  in  1964.  Ironically,  Duarte's 
son  Alejandro  was  the  PDC  candidate  who  was  forced  to  concede 
defeat  to  the  Arena  candidate,  Armando  Calderon  Sol. 

The  internal  cohesion  of  the  party  had  begun  to  erode  well  before 
the  1988  elections.  While  Duarte  was  struggling  to  deal  with  affairs 
of  state,  his  own  party  was  polarizing  into  two  personalistic,  com- 
petitive factions.  One  of  these  factions  was  led  by  Julio  Adolfo  Rey 
Prendes,  a  longtime  party  member  and  associate  of  Duarte's.  The 
other  faction  supported  Fidel  Chavez  Mena,  a  younger  technocrat 
who  had  disrupted  a  seemingly  harmonious  and  supportive  rela- 
tionship with  Duarte  by  opposing  him  for  the  1984  presidential 
nomination.  Rey  Prendes 's  faction  was  commonly  known  as  "the 
Ring"  (La  Argolla)  or  "the  Mafia."  The  latter  designation,  used 
by  members  of  the  faction  themselves,  perhaps  reflected  Rey 
Prendes 's  reputation  as  a  backroom  political  wheeler-dealer.  Chavez's 
followers  were  referred  to  as  institucionalistas  or  simply  as  chavistas. 

Through  his  accumulated  power  within  the  party,  Rey  Prendes 
was  able  to  influence  the  nomination  of  PDC  legislative  candidates 
in  the  1988  elections.  These  deputies  served  as  his  political  power 
base.  The  chavistas,  although  frozen  out  of  the  nominations  to  the 
Legislative  Assembly,  rallied  to  have  their  man  nominated  for  presi- 
dent at  a  party  convention  in  June  1988,  but  only  after  an  earlier 
convention  dominated  by  members  of  the  Rey  Prendes  faction  was 
ruled  invalid  by  the  Central  Electoral  Council.  Not  surprisingly, 


166 


Government  and  Politics 


the  earlier  convention  had  nominated  Rey  Prendes  as  the  party's 
standard  bearer. 

Judging  by  his  public  inaction  in  the  matter,  Duarte  awoke  fairly 
late  to  the  trouble  in  his  own  party.  In  an  effort  to  settle  the  con- 
flict between  the  two  contentious  factions,  the  president  proposed 
in  April  1988  that  both  Rey  Prendes  and  Chavez  renounce  their 
campaigns  for  the  presidency  in  favor  of  a  unity  candidate, 
Abraham  Rodriguez.  Rodriguez  was  a  founding  member  of  the 
PDC  who  had  run  unsuccessfully  for  president  in  1967.  The  fact 
that  Duarte 's  attempt  at  reconciliation  was  rejected  immediately 
by  both  factional  leaders  demonstrated  the  president's  diminished 
status  and  authority  among  the  party's  ranks. 

The  decline  in  the  fortunes  of  the  PDC  was  tragically  and  almost 
symbolically  accentuated  by  the  announcement  in  June  1988  that 
President  Duarte  was  suffering  from  terminal  liver  cancer.  The 
illness  might  have  explained  to  some  extent  Duarte' s  faltering 
leadership  of  both  the  government  and  his  party.  In  any  case,  the 
announcement  seemed  to  punctuate  the  end  of  an  era  in  Salva- 
doran  politics. 

Nationalist  Republican  Alliance 

The  nature  of  the  Nationalist  Republican  Alliance  (Alianza 
Republicana  Nacionalista — Arena)  as  a  political  force  in  El  Sal- 
vador was  the  object  of  some  debate  as  it  moved  toward  becoming 
a  ruling  party  with  its  1988  electoral  victory.  Some  observers  charac- 
terized Arena  as  the  institutional  representative  of  the  "disloyal 
right,"  meaning  those  conservative  forces  that  played  the  game 
of  democracy  while  privately  harboring  preferences  for  authoritarian 
or  even  dictatorial  rule  and  a  restoration  of  the  absolute  political 
preeminence  of  the  elite.  Others  felt  that  after  a  rocky  beginning, 
Arena  had  moderated  and  extended  its  ideology  beyond  simplis- 
tic, reflexive  anticommunism  and  was  ready  to  assume  the  role  of 
a  conservative  party  that  would  support  private  enterprise  and  be 
willing  to  accept  some  economic  reforms  in  response  to  popular 
demands. 

The  fortunes  of  Arena,  like  those  of  the  PDC,  were  cyclical  in 
nature.  Although  the  1982  Constituent  Assembly  elections  yielded 
the  party  a  leading  role  in  that  body,  subsequent  elections  appeared 
to  reflect  a  growing  public  rejection  of  the  extremist  image  of  Arena 
and  its  leader,  D'Aubuisson.  The  nadir  of  the  party's  influence 
was  reached  after  the  1985  elections  and  the  unsuccessful  coalition 
with  the  PCN.  Much  of  the  blame  for  the  party's  electoral  defeats 
fell  on  the  shoulders  of  D'Aubuisson.  In  an  effort  to  moderate  the 
party's  image,  D'Aubuisson  was  persuaded  to  step  down  as  party 


167 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

president  in  October  1985.  He  was  replaced  by  Alfredo  Cristiani 
Burkard,  a  member  of  a  prominent  coffee- growing  family.  Although 
Cristiani,  who  in  May  1988  was  designated  the  party's  1989 
presidential  nominee,  subsequently  went  on  to  project  a  less  hyper- 
bolic public  image  for  the  party,  D'Aubuisson  was  nevertheless 
retained  as  an  "honorary  president  for  life,"  and  he  continued  to 
serve  as  a  charismatic  drawing  card  at  public  rallies  and  as  a  party 
spokesman  in  the  media.  San  Salvador  mayor  Calderon  Sol  also 
emerged  from  the  1988  elections  as  a  leading  figure  in  the  party. 

Arena's  journey  from  obstructionist  opposition  to  apparent 
majority  status  was  attributable  to  a  number  of  factors.  With  its 
support  from  private  enterprise  and  large  agricultural  interests, 
Arena  enjoyed  a  distinct  advantage  in  funding  over  its  rivals.  Along 
with  superior  liquidity  came  superior  organizational  and  propa- 
ganda capabilities.  Although  its  elitist  supporters  were  the  most 
influential,  Arena's  base  of  support  also  incorporated  significant 
numbers  of  rural  peasants  and,  particularly  in  the  March  1988  elec- 
tions, the  urban  poor.  The  party  consistently  drew  some  40  per- 
cent of  the  peasant  vote,  reflecting  the  basic  conservatism  of  this 
voting  bloc  as  well  as  the  ingrained  appeal  of  strong  caudillo  leader- 
ship and  a  visceral  response  to  the  party's  promises  to  prosecute 
more  forcefully  the  war  against  the  guerrillas.  Arena  also  bene- 
fited from  the  intractable  nature  of  the  country's  problems  and  the 
PDC's  apparent  inability  to  cope  successfully  with  the  challenge 
of  governing  a  country  torn  by  violence  and  instability. 

Arena  also  reportedly  counted  a  significant  percentage  of  the  mili- 
tary officer  corps  as  sympathizers  with  its  views,  particularly  the 
party's  call  for  a  more  vigorous  prosecution  of  the  counterinsur- 
gent  war.  D'Aubuisson,  a  1963  graduate  of  the  Captain  General 
Gerardo  Barrios  Military  Academy,  apparently  maintained  con- 
tacts not  only  with  members  of  his  graduating  class  (tanda)  but  also 
with  conservative  junior  officers.  It  was  reported  by  some  observers 
that  D'Aubuisson' s  behind-the-scenes  appeals  from  1984  to  1988 
were  intended  to  foment  a  rightist  coup  d'etat  against  the  PDC 
government.  After  the  party's  March  1988  electoral  victory,  such 
a  drastic  method  of  taking  power  appeared  to  be  ruled  out  by 
Arena's  seemingly  bright  prospects  in  the  1989  presidential  race. 

Although  Arena's  surprisingly  strong  showing  in  the  1988  elec- 
tions was  to  a  great  extent  a  rejection  of  the  PDC,  it  also  seemed 
to  reflect  a  hardening  of  public  attitudes,  particularly  with  regard 
to  the  conflict  between  the  government  and  the  leftist  guerrillas. 
Whereas  Duarte  and  his  party  had  drawn  support  among  the  elec- 
torate at  least  in  part  by  promising  to  end  the  fighting  through 
negotiations,  Arena  suggested  that  the  more  effective  approach  was 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


to  step  up  military  efforts  in  the  field.  This  approach  seemed  to 
have  the  greatest  appeal  among  the  residents  of  conflict  zones  in 
the  north  and  east  of  the  country,  where  resentment  of  the  pro- 
tracted fighting  ran  high.  Some  urban  middle-class  voters,  once 
strong  supporters  of  the  PDC,  also  reportedly  responded  favora- 
bly to  this  hard-line  position. 

Another  aspect  of  Arena's  appeal  revolved  around  nationalism 
and  rejection  of  foreign  interference  in  Salvadoran  affairs.  Some 
areneros  bitterly  resented  the  perceived  favoritism  shown  the  PDC 
by  the  United  States  and  blamed  much  of  their  party's  misfortune 
from  1984  through  1988  on  manipulation  by  the  norteamericanos . 
Some  party  spokesmen  such  as  Sigifredo  Ochoa  Perez,  a  flamboyant 
retired  army  colonel  elected  to  the  Legislative  Assembly  in  1988, 
extended  their  criticism  beyond  the  political  sphere  into  the  arena 
of  military  tactics,  publicly  criticizing  the  role  of  United  States  mili- 
tary advisers  in  formulating  counterinsurgent  strategy.  Cristiani 
also  spoke  out  against  such  United  States-backed  innovations  as 
the  switch  to  small-unit  tactics  and  suggested  that  an  Arena  govern- 
ment would  move  to  abandon  them  (see  Left-Wing  Extremism, 
ch.  5).  The  seeming  inability  of  the  armed  forces  to  resolve  the 
insurgency  by  military  means  appeared  to  sharpen  the  public's 
receptiveness  to  these  criticisms. 

The  most  immediate  advantage  gained  by  Arena  through  its  con- 
trol of  the  Legislative  Assembly  was  its  ability  to  dictate  the  ap- 
pointment of  candidates  to  important  government  posts,  such  as 
magistrates  of  the  Supreme  Court  and  the  attorney  general  of  the 
republic.  The  party's  legislative  agenda  was  uncertain  in  mid- 1988, 
but  it  seemed  to  entail  some  tinkering  with  land  reform  provisions, 
such  as  changing  the  titling  procedure  for  cooperatives;  easing  the 
tax  and  regulatory  burden  on  the  private  sector,  especially  the  coffee 
industry;  restoring  private  banking;  and,  perhaps,  reprivatizing 
the  foreign  trade  procedures. 

National  Conciliation  Party 

The  National  Conciliation  Party  (Partido  de  Conciliacion 
Nacional — PCN)  was  the  dominant  political  party  in  El  Salvador 
during  the  1960s  and  1970s,  when  it  was  closely  associated  with 
the  military.  Although  its  level  of  popular  support  was  all  but  im- 
possible to  quantify  because  of  institutionalized  electoral  fraud,  the 
PCN  had  supporters  among  both  the  elite  and  the  rural  popula- 
tion, especially  in  areas  where  the  armed  forces  served  as  the 
primary  governmental  presence.  The  party's  showings  in  the  1982 
Constituent  Assembly  elections  and  the  first  round  of  the  1984 
presidential  elections  were  respectable;  it  was  Guerrero's  almost 


169 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

20  percent  total  that  forced  the  voting  to  a  runoff  between  Duarte 
and  D'Aubuisson.  From  that  point  on,  however,  the  PCN's  sup- 
port at  the  polls  declined  steadily.  This  appeared  to  be  a  by-product 
of  the  democratic  transition  in  El  Salvador.  Under  a  system  allow- 
ing open  electoral  competition,  the  military  shifted  its  support  to 
the  party  best  positioned  to  ensure  continued  aid  from  the  United 
States  and  to  provide  some  measure  of  stability  to  the  government. 
Until  1988  this  party  was  the  PDC.  Deprived  of  its  military  con- 
nection, the  PCN  was  left  to  fend  for  itself  in  a  new  and  unfamiliar 
scheme  of  things.  Given  the  polarizing  tendencies  of  Salvadoran 
politics,  parties  without  a  mass  base  or  superior  organization  tended 
to  be  marginalized.  This  clearly  seemed  to  be  the  case  with  the 
PCN  in  the  wake  of  the  1988  elections. 

During  its  years  in  power,  the  PCN  was  a  rightist  party  that 
implemented  limited  and  controlled  reform  in  an  effort  to  placate 
nonelite  sectors,  such  as  the  peasantry  and  the  urban  middle  class. 
The  image  of  the  party,  however,  was  tarnished  severely  by  the 
harsh  repression  undertaken  by  the  military  and  the  so-called  "death 
squads"  in  response  to  growing  popular  unrest  in  the  1970s  (see 
The  1970s:  The  Road  to  Revolt,  ch.  1).  When  the  armed  forces 
turned  to  the  PDC  in  1980  in  an  effort  to  lend  legitimacy  to  the 
post- 1979  junta  governments,  the  separation  of  the  PCN  from  the 
military  was  begun.  Unfortunately  for  the  PCN,  however,  the  as- 
sociation between  the  two  was  strong  in  the  public  mind.  Although 
this  lingering  perception  may  have  helped  the  party  among  some 
rural  voters,  overall  it  was  judged  a  liability  by  most  observers. 
In  response  to  this  perceived  image  problem,  the  PCN  in  the 
mid-1980s  was  attempting  to  moderate  its  policy  positions,  adopt 
a  social  democratic  platform,  and  reach  out  to  labor  and  peasant 
groups.  Any  support  that  the  PCN  might  pick  up  from  these  sources 
was  expected  to  come  at  the  expense  of  the  PDC. 

Left- Wing  Parties 

The  major  representative  of  the  political  left  in  El  Salvador  was 
the  Revolutionary  Democratic  Front  (Frente  Democratico  Revolu- 
cionario — FDR),  a  grouping  of  social  democratic  parties  and  the 
remnants  of  some  of  the  "popular  organizations"  that  led  anti- 
government  protests  in  the  late  1970s.  Up  to  and  including  the  elec- 
tions of  1988,  the  left  had  been  excluded  from  the  electoral  process. 
The  most  frequently  cited  impediment  to  leftist  participation  was 
right-wing  violence.  This  was  certainly  a  very  valid  consideration 
in  the  early  1980s,  when  the  level  of  human  rights  violations  was 
extremely  high  (see  Right-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5). 


170 


Anti-FMLN  demonstration, 
San  Miguel 
Courtesy  Donald  C.  Keffer 


By  the  mid-1980s,  however,  political  violence  had  declined  con- 
siderably, rendering  the  possibility  of  leftist  participation  more  plau- 
sible. Such  an  eventuality  was  complicated  considerably  by  the 
direct  association  of  the  FDR  with  the  violent,  rejectionist  left  as 
represented  by  the  Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation  Front 
(Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de  Liberacion  Nacional — FMLN).  The 
leadership  of  the  FMLN  clung  to  the  position  that  the  only  legiti- 
mate elections  would  be  those  undertaken  after  the  conclusion  and 
implementation  of  a  power- sharing  arrangement  between  the 
government  and  the  FMLN-FDR.  Participation  in  elections  held 
in  the  absence  of  such  an  agreement  only  served  to  legitimate  what 
the  insurgent  commanders  described  as  a  puppet  government  of 
the  United  States.  This  extremism  and  intransigence  by  its  allies 
made  problematic  the  FDR's  full  inclusion  in  the  electoral  process. 
Yet  another  consideration  for  the  leftist  parties  was  the  potential 
for  a  weak  showing  at  the  polls  and  the  loss  of  prestige  and  bar- 
gaining power  that  would  entail. 

Nevertheless,  despite  the  numerous  factors  weighing  against 
them,  members  of  the  two  leading  parties  in  the  FDR  coalition  began 
to  return  from  foreign  exile  to  organize  and  possibly  to  compete  in 
the  1989  presidential  elections.  Ruben  Zamora  Rivas,  the  leader 
of  the  Popular  Social  Christian  Movement  (Movimiento  Popular 
Social  Cristiano — MPSC),  and  Guillermo  Manuel  Ungo  Revelo, 
head  of  the  National  Revolutionary  Movement  (Movimiento 


171 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Nacional  Revolucionario — MNR),  returned  to  El  Salvador  in 
November  1987.  Wearing  body  armor  beneath  their  suits,  the  two 
made  several  public  appearances  and  were  interviewed  on  Salva- 
doran  radio  and  television  stations.  The  groundwork  for  their  dra- 
matic reappearances  had  been  established  by  other,  less  prominent 
members  of  their  parties  who  had  returned  to  assess  the  political 
climate  prevailing  under  the  Duarte  government. 

In  December  1987,  the  MPSC  and  MNR  announced  that  they 
were  forming  a  political  coalition  that  would  also  include  the  Social 
Democratic  Party  (Partido  Social  Democrata — PSD),  a  small  left- 
of-center  party  established  in  1986.  The  new  grouping  was  dubbed 
the  Democratic  Convergence  (Convergencia  Democratica — CD). 
Many  observers  felt  that  the  CD  was  set  up  in  order  to  contest  the 
legislative  and  municipal  elections  of  March  1988.  The  CD's 
announcement  in  January  of  that  year  that  it  would  not  field  can- 
didates put  an  end  to  such  speculation  and  bought  the  coalition 
additional  time  to  contemplate  its  strategy  for  the  1989  elections. 
Public  statements  by  Ungo  and  Zamora  shed  little  light  on  their 
intentions  in  this  regard.  In  one  such  statement,  Ungo  denied  that 
the  CD  was  intended  to  function  as  an  electoral  coalition.  Zamora 
adhered  closely  to  the  FMLN  line  in  a  December  1987  statement 
in  which  he  advocated  the  creation  of  a  "transitional  government" 
prior  to  the  holding  of  general  elections.  Nevertheless,  in  March 
1988  the  MPSC  began  the  process  of  legal  registration  as  a  political 
party  under  the  procedures  established  by  the  Electoral  Code;  sub- 
sequent press  reports  also  indicated  that  electoral  participation  had 
been  approved  by  the  leadership  of  the  FMLN. 

Although  Ungo  and  Zamora  denied  any  possibility  of  a  split  be- 
tween the  FDR  and  the  FMLN,  there  were  definite  signs  of  un- 
easiness between  the  two  groups.  Most  of  the  open  disagreements 
involved  the  FMLN's  continued  advocacy  and  employment  of  ter- 
rorism as  a  political  instrument.  The  FDR  leaders  particularly  dis- 
agreed with  the  kidnapping  of  Duarte 's  daughter  and  the  June  1985 
murder  of  thirteen  people,  including  six  United  States  citizens,  in 
San  Salvador.  The  return  of  MPSC  and  MNR  members  and  their 
possible  participation  in  the  established  electoral  process  was  seen 
by  some  as  another  manifestation  of  the  growing  strains  within  the 
FMLN-FDR  alliance. 

Other  Parties 

The  1985  crisis  within  the  ranks  of  Arena  produced  a  splinter 
party  that  initially  referred  to  itself  as  Free  Fatherland  (Patria  Libre). 
It  was  led  by  D'Aubuisson's  1984  running  mate,  Hugo  Barrera 
Guerrero,  a  prominent  businessman.  The  early  prospects  for  the 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


party,  which  subsequently  changed  its  name  to  the  Liberation  Party 
(Partido  Liberacion — PL),  seemed  promising.  A  number  of  ob- 
servers felt  that  a  center-right,  probusiness  party  could  pick  up  much 
of  the  support  that  Arena  seemed  to  have  lost  in  the  1984  and  1985 
elections.  The  PL,  however,  was  unable  to  compete  with  Arena 
on  an  organizational  basis  and  fared  poorly  in  the  1988  elections, 
coming  away  without  a  single  seat  in  the  Legislative  Assembly. 

There  were  several  other  small  political  parties  that  ran  candi- 
dates in  the  1988  elections  but  failed  to  garner  any  seats  in  the  Legis- 
lative Assembly.  One  of  these  was  the  Salvadoran  Authentic 
Institutional  Party  (Partido  Autentico  Institucional  Salvadoreno — 
PAIS  A),  the  conservative  PCN  splinter  party.  Another  small  con- 
servative party  was  the  Authentic  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido 
Autentico  Revolucionario — PAR).  Democratic  Action  (Accion 
Democratica — AD)  was  a  moderate  party  that  supported  Duarte 
and  the  PDC  in  the  1984  elections  but  subsequently  differed  with 
the  government's  economic  policies  and  assumed  a  more  indepen- 
dent stance.  Rounding  out  the  field  was  the  extreme  right-wing 
Popular  Orientation  Party  (Partido  de  Orientation  Popular — POP). 

Interest  Groups 

Private  Enterprise 

Members  of  the  private  business  sector  relied  on  a  number  of 
organizations  to  articulate  their  positions  on  economic  and  politi- 
cal issues.  These  organizations  served  as  pressure  groups,  inject- 
ing themselves  regularly  into  the  political  arena  through  criticism 
of  government  policies,  the  actual  or  threatened  shutdown  of  bus- 
iness and  industry,  and  behind-the-scenes  lobbying  with  politicians. 
The  leading  private  enterprise  organizations  were  the  National 
Association  of  Private  Enterprise  (Asociacion  Nacional  de  la 
Empresa  Privada — ANEP),  the  Association  of  Salvadoran  Indus- 
trialists (Asociacion  Salvadorefia  de  Industrials — ASI),  the  Sal- 
vadoran Chamber  of  Commerce  and  Industry  (Camara  de 
Comercio  e  Industria  de  El  Salvador),  the  Salvadoran  Coffee  Grow- 
ers Association  (Asociacion  Cafetalera  de  El  Salvador — ACES), 
and  the  Association  of  Coffee  Processors  and  Exporters  (Asocia- 
cion de  Beneficiadores  y  Exportadores  de  Cafe — Abecafe).  Their 
membership  was  drawn  from  the  economic  elite,  and  their  leader- 
ship consistently  advocated  a  reduction  in  government  involvement 
in  industry,  the  reprivatization  of  coffee  exports  and  foreign  trade 
in  general,  no  increase  in  taxes  on  business  (usually  referred  to 
as  "the  productive  sector"),  no  extension  of  the  agrarian  reform, 
and  reductions  in  government  spending  (see  Role  of  Government, 
ch.  3). 


173 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Most  economic  issues  usually  found  the  private  enterprise  or- 
ganizations aligned  on  one  side  and  labor  and  peasant  organiza- 
tions on  the  other,  with  the  Duarte  government  somewhere  in 
between,  attempting  to  mediate  between  the  two  blocs.  This  was 
especially  true  with  regard  to  agrarian  reform.  The  private  enter- 
prise organizations,  particularly  the  coffee  growers'  associations, 
opposed  agrarian  reform  from  its  inception  in  1980.  They  were 
unable  to  prevent  implementation,  however,  because  of  a  shift  in 
the  political  climate  that  brought  too  many  other  actors,  including 
the  PDC,  the  reformist  military,  and  the  United  States,  down  on 
the  side  of  some  measure  of  reform.  Denied  their  first  preference 
in  the  matter,  the  private  sector  groups  went  on  to  advocate  limi- 
tations on  the  terms  of  the  reforms.  These  were  enacted  by  the  Con- 
stituent Assembly  and  incorporated  into  the  1983  Constitution.  By 
the  late  1980s,  the  line  taken  by  the  private  sector  reflected  that 
espoused  by  Arena,  namely,  that  the  reforms  should  not  be  re- 
scinded but  should  be  made  more  efficient. 

Private-enterprise  organizations  provided  the  most  significant 
opposition  to  the  Duarte  government's  1986  economic  austerity 
package.  From  the  businessmen's  point  of  view,  the  most  offen- 
sive aspect  of  the  package  was  the  so-called  "war  tax"  on  all  in- 
come above  US$20,000  with  revenues  derived  from  the  tax  to  be 
applied  directly  to  the  war  effort  against  the  leftist  guerrillas.  In 
this  as  in  other  matters,  the  private  sector  groups  worked  in  con- 
cert with  Arena.  While  arenero  legislators  boycotted  sessions  of  the 
Legislative  Assembly  in  an  effort  to  deny  the  PDC  a  quorum,  the 
private-enterprise  organizations  called  for  a  shutdown  of  business 
and  industry  on  January  22,  1987.  The  business  strike  was  quite 
effective,  closing  a  reported  80  percent  of  Salvadoran  stores,  fac- 
tories, and  professional  and  nonprofessional  services.  Although  im- 
pressive, this  demonstration  of  economic  power  by  the  private  sector 
had  no  immediate  effect  on  government  policy.  The  issue  eventu- 
ally was  rendered  moot,  however,  in  February  1987  when  the  war 
tax  was  declared  unconstitutional  by  the  Supreme  Court. 

The  January  1987  strike  was  but  another  chapter  in  a  long  his- 
tory of  confrontation  between  the  private  sector  and  the  PDC .  Bit- 
terly opposed  to  Duarte 's  election  in  1984,  the  ASI  publicly 
denounced  Duarte  and  his  party  as  adherents  to  the  same  ideol- 
ogy as  that  of  the  FMLN.  The  PDC,  according  to  the  industri- 
alists, differed  only  in  its  "method  and  strategies"  for  achieving 
socialism.  Although  he  responded  to  the  attacks  in  kind  during  the 
campaign,  Duarte  attempted  after  his  election  to  reassure  business 
leaders  that  he  was  not  antagonistic  to  private  enterprise.  The  agen- 
das of  the  PDC  and  the  private  sector  were  too  divergent,  however, 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


and  attitudes  generally  were  hardened  between  the  two  as  economic 
conditions  failed  to  improve  and  the  insurgency  ground  on  inter- 
minably. 

Labor  and  Campesino  Groups 

Although  labor  confederations  have  existed  for  decades  in  El 
Salvador,  their  political  input  has  been  limited  by  their  small 
membership — officially,  only  nonagricultural  workers  have  been 
allowed  to  organize — and  by  the  exclusionary  nature  of  the  politi- 
cal system.  Under  military  rule,  the  only  unions  with  influence  were 
those  with  ties  to  the  armed  forces  or  its  associated  ruling  party. 
The  political  ferment  that  began  to  make  itself  felt  in  the  late  1970s, 
however,  was  reflected  in  the  labor  movement.  The  real  and  press- 
ing grievances  of  workers  and  peasants,  who  began  to  organize  into 
unsanctioned  interest  groups  of  their  own,  led  them  to  enlist  in 
the  growing  number  of  unions  affiliated  with  the  so-called  mass 
organizations  or  popular  organizations.  These  organizations  took 
a  much  more  militant,  antigovernment  line  than  did  the  old,  estab- 
lished labor  unions.  Ultimately,  the  leaders  of  the  mass  organiza- 
tions, supportive  of  the  revolutionary  goals  of  the  FMLN,  were 
more  concerned  with  the  promotion  of  their  political  agenda  than 
with  the  attainment  of  better  wages  and  working  conditions  for  the 
rank  and  file.  By  the  early  1980s,  strikes,  demonstrations,  and  pro- 
tests by  these  groups  had  contributed  to  an  atmosphere  of  uncer- 
tainty, instability,  and  political  polarization  in  El  Salvador.  In  the 
violent  right-wing  backlash  that  followed,  members  of  moderate, 
prodemocratic,  nonconfrontational  unions  were  murdered  along 
with  the  militant  supporters  of  the  mass  organizations.  This 
repression — both  official  and  unofficial — temporarily  removed  labor 
groups  as  participants  in  the  political  arena.  The  situation  began 
to  change  as  democratic  institutions  evolved  in  the  wake  of  the  1982 
Constituent  Assembly  elections. 

Duarte  won  the  presidency  with  the  support  of  a  number  of 
groups  in  Salvadoran  society  who  felt  that  their  interests  could  best 
be  served  by  the  extension  of  economic  reform.  Most  of  these 
groups — middle-class  professionals,  small  business  people,  labor 
unions,  and  peasants — also  believed  that  a  just  resolution  to  the 
civil  conflict  was  a  necessary  prerequisite  to  economic  reactivation. 
In  terms  of  numbers,  the  most  important  of  these  sectors  were  the 
labor  and  peasant  organizations.  In  February  1984,  Duarte  signed 
a  "social  pact"  with  the  major  centrist  grouping,  the  Popular 
Democratic  Unity  (Unidad  Popular  Democratica — UPD).  This 
agreement  called  for  the  full  implementation  of  agrarian  reform, 
government  support  for  union  rights,  incorporation  of  union  and 


175 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

peasant  leaders  into  the  government,  and  continued  efforts  to  cur- 
tail human  rights  violations  and  to  end  the  civil  conflict. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  labor  and  peasant  groups,  the  Duarte 
government  failed  to  follow  through  on  the  pledges  made  under 
the  social  pact,  and,  as  a  result,  the  UPD  began  to  unravel.  In 
early  1984,  the  UPD  had  been  the  leading  labor  and  peasant  group- 
ing in  both  numbers  and  influence.  It  was  an  umbrella  group  made 
up  of  the  country's  leading  labor  federation — the  Federation  of 
Unions  of  the  Construction  Industry  and  Kindred  Activities,  Trans- 
portation, and  Other  Activities  (Federacion  de  Sindicatos  de  la 
Industria  de  la  Construccion,  Similares,  Transporte  y  de  Otras 
Actividades — Fesinconstrans);  its  largest  peasant  group,  the  Sal- 
vadoran  Communal  Union  (Union  Comunal  Salvadorena — UCS); 
and  three  smaller  groups.  In  August  1984,  some  three  months  after 
Duarte 's  election,  the  leadership  of  the  three  smallest  UPD  affili- 
ates called  a  press  conference  to  denounce  Duarte  for  his  lack  of 
compliance  with  the  social  pact.  Leaders  of  Fesinconstrans  and  the 
UCS,  who  were  not  consulted  before  or  included  in  the  press  con- 
ference, publicly  dissociated  themselves  from  the  statements  made 
there.  This  incident  precipitated  a  political  and  ideological  split 
within  the  labor  movement  that  showed  little  sign  of  abating  by 
the  late  1980s. 

Documents  seized  by  government  forces  after  a  shootout  with 
a  rebel  group  in  April  1985  shed  some  light  on  the  leadership  cri- 
sis within  the  UPD.  According  to  the  documents,  three  union  lead- 
ers (although  not  named,  they  were  presumed  by  most  analysts 
to  be  the  leaders  who  called  the  1984  press  conference)  were  col- 
laborating clandestinely  with  the  FMLN  and  were  receiving  bribes 
to  assume  a  confrontational  stance  with  the  government.  The  coor- 
dination of  actions  among  the  FMLN,  leftist  unions,  and  certain 
militant  human  rights  and  refugee  groups  seemed  to  be  confirmed 
by  another  cache  of  rebel  documents  seized  in  April  1987.  Whatever 
the  motivation,  the  split  in  the  UPD  leadership  prompted  the  more 
moderate  leadership  of  Fesinconstrans  and  the  UCS  to  explore  the 
possibility  of  establishing  a  new  labor  confederation.  This  organi- 
zation, christened  the  Democratic  Workers'  Confederation  (Con- 
federacion  de  Trabajadores  Democraticos — CTD),  was  founded 
in  December  1984.  In  March  1986,  the  CTD  and  the  UCS  joined 
with  a  number  of  other  labor  and  peasant  groups  to  form  the  Na- 
tional Union  of  Workers  and  Peasants  (Union  Nacional  de  Obreros 
y  Campesinos — UNOC).  UNOC  characterized  itself  as  a  labor 
organization  supportive  of  the  moderate  political  left;  it  advocated 
the  continuation  of  the  democratic  process  in  El  Salvador  as  well 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


as  the  political  incorporation  of  workers  and  the  making  of 
improvements  in  their  quality  of  life. 

The  leaders  of  the  more  militant  and  radical  labor  and  peasant 
groups  almost  simultaneously  established  a  parallel  umbrella  group 
to  UNOC ,  dubbing  it  the  National  Union  of  Salvadoran  Workers 
(Union  Nacional  de  Trabaj adores  Salvadorenos — UNTS).  It  in- 
cluded the  remaining  members  of  the  UPD,  several  established 
leftist  labor  groups,  some  of  which  maintained  ties  to  the  World 
Federation  of  Trade  Unions,  a  front  group  of  the  Communist  Party 
of  the  Soviet  Union;  a  peasant  organization  known  as  the  Nation- 
al Association  of  Peasants  (Asociacion  Nacional  de  Campesinos — 
ANC);  and  a  leftist  student  group,  the  General  Association  of  Sal- 
vadoran University  Students  (Asociacion  General  de  Estudiantes 
Universitarios  Salvadorenos — AGEUS).  Although  it  claimed  that 
its  membership  rivaled  that  of  the  350,000-strong  UNOC,  most 
observers  agreed  that  the  UNTS  represented  only  40,000  to  50,000 
members  at  most. 

President  Duarte,  the  armed  forces,  and  representatives  of  the 
United  States  maintained  that  the  UNTS  was  penetrated  and  con- 
trolled by  the  FMLN.  This  allegation  was  not  universally  accepted, 
however.  Whether  coordinated  with  FMLN  strategy  or  not,  the 
actions  of  the  UNTS  appeared  calculated  to  undermine  the  legiti- 
macy of  the  Duarte  government  and  to  promote  unrest  and  insta- 
bility in  urban  areas,  particularly  San  Salvador.  UNTS  affiliates 
staged  numerous  strikes,  mainly  in  the  capital,  most  of  which  were 
declared  illegal  by  the  government  because  the  demands  of  the  union 
leadership  were  judged  to  be  more  political  than  economic  in  na- 
ture. Some  unions  demanded  the  president's  resignation  as  a  con- 
dition of  settlement.  Many  of  the  strikes  were  endorsed  by  the 
FMLN  over  the  clandestine  radio  station  Radio  Venceremos  oper- 
ated by  the  guerrilla  group  known  as  the  People's  Revolutionary 
Army  (Ejercito  Revolucionario  del  Pueblo — ERP).  The  largest  mass 
antigovernment  demonstration  organized  by  the  UNTS  took  place 
in  February  1986;  estimates  of  the  number  of  participants  ranged 
from  7,000  to  12,000.  A  generally  progovernment  rally  organized 
by  UNOC  the  following  month  drew  a  considerably  larger  turnout, 
estimated  at  up  to  65,000. 

Although  it  opposed  the  militant  strategy  of  the  UNTS  and  sup- 
ported the  reforms  decreed  by  the  junta  governments  and  main- 
tained under  the  PDC ,  UNOC  also  displayed  disillusionment  with 
Duarte  and  his  seeming  inability  to  improve  workers'  standard  of 
living  or  to  wind  down  the  insurgency.  UNOC's  influence, 
however,  began  to  wane  by  1985.  This  development  was  attributa- 
ble mainly  to  internal  leadership  struggles  within  Fesinconstrans 


177 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  UCS.  Ironically,  the  catalyst  for  these  conflicts  was  found 
not  in  the  failure  of  the  social  pact  with  the  PDC  but  in  its  partial 
fulfillment.  Labor  and  peasant  leaders  who  had  been  appointed 
to  government  posts,  mainly  in  the  institutions  administering  agrar- 
ian reform  and  credit  facilities,  were  exploiting  the  patronage  poten- 
tial of  their  positions  to  expand  their  personal  following  among  the 
rank  and  file.  Resentment  over  this  tactic  prompted  challenges  from 
union  leaders  and  members  who  either  felt  excluded  from  the 
patronage  process  or  who  objected  to  the  practice  on  ethical 
grounds.  UNOC's  lack  of  concerted  involvement  in  the  PDC  legis- 
lative victory  of  1985  lessened  its  influence  with  the  government 
and  perhaps  made  it  easier  for  Duarte  to  follow  the  course  of  eco- 
nomic austerity  that  eventually  drew  fire  from  both  the  private  sector 
and  labor  groups  from  across  the  political  spectrum. 

Just  as  the  UNTS  represented  the  militant  leftist  position  among 
Salvadoran  labor  and  peasant  groups  and  UNOC  affected  a  more 
moderate,  center-left  stance,  there  were  also  conservative  labor 
groups  still  functioning  in  the  late  1980s.  The  two  leading  organi- 
zations in  this  category  were  the  General  Confederation  of  Unions 
(Confederacion  General  de  Sindicatos — CGS)  and  the  National 
Confederation  of  Workers  (Confederacion  Nacional  de  Traba- 
jadores — CNT).  Their  numbers  were  small — CGS  membership 
was  estimated  at  7,000  in  1986 — and  their  political  influence  cor- 
respondingly low.  By  1988,  however,  as  Arena  took  control  of  the 
legislative  branch  and  seemed  poised  to  win  the  presidency,  the 
position  of  these  conservative  labor  groups  may  well  have  been  en- 
hanced, if  only  because  moderate  organizations  such  as  UNOC 
were  all  but  certain  to  see  their  leverage  with  the  government  dimin- 
ish considerably.  The  radical  UNTS,  which  was  condemned  as  a 
rebel  front  group  even  by  the  Duarte  administration  (although  it 
seemed  clear  that  the  majority  of  rank-and-file  UNTS  members 
were  not  FMLN  sympathizers),  could  look  forward  to  little  or  no 
sympathy  from  an  Arena  government. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church 

The  Salvadoran  Roman  Catholic  Church  has  been  affected  by 
the  country's  political  and  social  turmoil.  During  the  tenure  of  Mon- 
signor  Oscar  Arnulfo  Romero  y  Galdamez  as  archbishop  of  San 
Salvador  (1977-80),  the  positions  of  the  church,  as  expressed  by 
Romero,  drifted  in  favor  of  those  activist  Roman  Catholics  who 
advocated  liberation  theology  (see  Glossary).  By  the  time  of  his 
assassination  in  March  1980,  Romero  had  become  the  leading  critic 
of  official  and  unofficial  repression  in  El  Salvador.  Judging  by  the 
content  of  his  weekly  homilies,  some  observers  felt  that  his  moral 


178 


outrage  over  abuses  committed  by  armed  forces  personnel  and  death 
squad  forces  was  drawing  him  closer  to  a  public  recognition  of  the 
legitimacy  of  armed  struggle  against  the  government  (see  The  Role 
of  Religion,  ch.  2). 

Romero,  however,  never  spoke  for  a  majority  of  the  Salvadoran 
bishops.  The  only  other  member  of  the  hierarchy  at  the  time  who 
was  known  to  harbor  some  sympathy  for  Romero's  proliberationist 
views  was  Arturo  Rivera  y  Damas.  Rivera,  who  had  been  a  lead- 
ing candidate  for  the  archbishop's  position  in  1977  but  was  passed 
over  in  favor  of  the  reputedly  more  conservative  Romero,  was  a 
critic  of  government  and  military  human  rights  abuses,  especially 
when  they  involved  the  persecution  or  murder  of  Roman  Catholic 
clergy  or  lay  workers.  Under  Romero,  he  occupied  a  swing  posi- 
tion between  the  activist  stance  of  the  archbishop  and  the  more 
conservative  attitudes  of  the  country's  three  remaining  bishops. 
Although  they  readily  endorsed  condemnations  of  military  repres- 
sion, the  three  bishops  differed  sharply  with  the  thrust  of  libera- 
tion theology,  which  they  saw  as  excessively  politicized.  Their 
concerns  for  the  role  of  the  church  under  a  leftist  government  were 
strengthened  by  the  example  of  postrevolutionary  Nicaragua,  where 
the  traditional  church  was  viewed  by  the  ruling  party  as  a  rival 
and  was  harassed  by  the  state  security  and  propaganda  apparatus. 

Rivera  succeeded  Romero  as  archbishop  in  April  1980.  He  began 
to  take  the  sort  of  moderate  political  stance  that  most  observers 


179 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

had  expected  of  Romero.  Rivera  spoke  out  against  abuses  by  all 
parties  and  refused  to  take  sides  in  the  civil  conflict.  He  initially 
advocated  the  cessation  of  foreign  military  aid  to  both  sides.  By 
the  late  1980s,  however,  the  church's  position  on  this  point  had 
softened  somewhat,  owing  to  the  ideological  intransigence  of  the 
FMLN  and  the  seemingly  indiscriminate  deployment  of  antiper- 
sonnel mines  by  its  forces.  In  line  with  the  position  of  the  Vatican, 
Rivera  sought  to  eschew  political  advocacy  in  favor  of  moral  sua- 
sion so  as  to  render  the  church  a  viable  mediator  in  the  conflict. 

Rivera  and  other  representatives  of  the  church,  particularly  San 
Salvador  auxiliary  bishop  Gregorio  Rosa  Chavez,  have  served  as 
mediators  in  situations  ranging  from  labor  disputes  to  negotiations 
between  the  government  and  the  FMLN-FDR.  At  President 
Duarte's  request  and  with  the  acquiescence  of  the  rebel  leadership, 
Archbishop  Rivera  served  as  an  intermediary  throughout  the  fit- 
ful process  of  dialogue  that  began  with  the  October  1984  meeting 
in  La  Palma  (see  Left-Wing  Extremism,  ch.  5).  When  that  process 
broke  down,  the  archbishop  maintained  contacts  with  both  sides 
in  an  effort  to  keep  tenuous  lines  of  communication  open. 

By  the  late  1980s,  the  attitude  of  the  Salvadoran  hierarchy  toward 
the  guerrillas  had  hardened  considerably.  Public  statements  by 
Rivera  and  others  condemned  the  insurgents'  tactics  in  the  field, 
their  ideology,  their  political  intransigence,  and  their  efforts  to  dis- 
rupt the  electoral  process.  The  FMLN,  in  turn,  denounced  the 
bishops  as  tools  of  the  "Duarte  dictatorship"  and  questioned  their 
fitness  as  objective  mediators.  Although  they  hinted  that  they  might 
reject  the  church's  participation  in  future  negotiations,  the  leader- 
ship of  the  FMLN  suggested  in  May  1988  that  contacts  between 
it  and  the  Legislative  Assembly  be  channeled  through  Rivera. 

The  church  publicly  supported  the  electoral  process  begun  in 
1982  and  urged  citizens  to  participate  in  it.  At  the  same  time,  church 
spokesmen  were  quick  to  criticize  the  mudslinging  nature  of  Sal- 
vadoran campaigning  and  urged  politicians  to  stress  substantive 
issues  over  personal  attacks.  Although  they  did  not  interject  them- 
selves as  advocates  or  lobbyists,  the  bishops  generally  supported 
the  reform  programs  initiated  and  maintained  by  the  PDC  govern- 
ment and  opposed  on  moral  grounds  any  effort  by  the  elite  to  re- 
strict or  eliminate  those  reforms.  In  the  tradition  established  by 
Romero,  Rivera  continued  to  condemn  in  his  weekly  homilies 
reported  excesses  by  the  military  or  security  forces. 

Mass  Communications 

By  Central  American  standards,  the  Salvadoran  media  enjoyed 
a  moderate  freedom  of  expression  and  ability  to  present  competing 


180 


Government  and  Politics 


political  points  of  view.  They  were  not  as  restricted  as  the  media 
in  Nicaragua,  but  neither  were  they  as  diverse,  pluralistic,  and  un- 
restricted as  those  of  Costa  Rica.  Although  the  government  did 
not  exercise  direct  prior  censorship,  the  owners  of  most  publica- 
tions and  some  broadcast  media  outlets  exercised  a  form  of  self- 
censorship  based  either  on  their  personal  political  conservatism, 
fear  of  violent  retaliation  by  right-  or  left-wing  groups,  or  possible 
adverse  action  by  the  government,  such  as  refusal  to  renew  a  broad- 
cast license. 

Article  6  of  the  Constitution  guarantees  freedom  of  expression 
that  does  not  "subvert  the  public  order,  nor  injure  the  morals, 
honor,  or  private  life  of  others."  This  language,  taken  directly  from 
the  1962  constitution,  was  rendered  meaningless  by  official  and 
unofficial  repression  and  left-wing  terrorist  action  against  the  media 
and  its  practitioners  in  the  early  1980s.  With  the  post- 1982  advent 
of  a  freely  elected  democratic  system  of  government,  however,  and 
the  accompanying  decline  in  politically  motivated  violence,  the  cli- 
mate under  which  the  press  and  broadcast  media  operated  began 
to  improve. 

This  expansion  in  freedom  of  expression  was  not  as  evident  in 
the  print  medium  as  it  was  in  the  broadcast  media.  Most  newspapers 
were  owned  by  conservative  business  people,  and  their  editorial 
policies  tended  to  reflect  the  views  of  their  publishers  rather  than 
to  adhere  to  the  standards  of  objectivity  normally  expected  in  the 
North  American  or  West  European  press.  This  did  not  mean, 
however,  that  the  Salvadoran  press  was  monolithically  conserva- 
tive. The  weekly  publication  of  the  archdiocese  of  San  Salvador, 
Orientacion,  presented  critical  analysis  of  the  political  scene.  Read- 
ily available  publications  emanating  from  the  Central  American 
University  presented  a  generally  leftist,  antigovernment  perspec- 
tive on  events.  Small  private  presses  also  produced  pamphlets,  bulle- 
tins, and  flyers  expressing  opinions  across  the  political  spectrum. 
The  leading  daily  newspapers  in  the  late  1980s  were  El  Diario  de 
Hoy,  with  a  circulation  of  approximately  75,000;  El  Mundo,  with 
approximately  60,000;  and  La  Prensa  Grdfica,  with  approximately 
100,000,  all  published  in  San  Salvador. 

Freedom  of  expression  in  print  was  best  exemplified  by  the  com- 
mon practice  of  taking  out  paid  political  advertisements,  or  campos 
pagados.  Most  newspapers  accepted  such  advertisements  from  all 
sources.  Campos  pagados  were  one  of  the  few  means  of  access  to  the 
print  medium  available  to  leftist  groups  such  as  the  FMLN-FDR 
and  other  like-minded  organizations.  Campos  pagados  also  were  fre- 
quently employed  by  political  parties,  private  sector  groups,  unions, 
government  agencies,  and  other  groups  to  express  their  opinions. 


181 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

The  content  of  the  advertisements  was  unregulated  and  uncensored. 
Their  cost  effectively  limited  their  use  to  groups  and  organizations 
rather  than  to  individuals. 

The  influence  of  the  press  was  limited  by  illiteracy  and  the  con- 
centration of  publishing  in  the  capital.  Radio  did  not  suffer  from 
these  handicaps  and  consequently  was  the  most  widely  utilized 
medium  in  the  country.  In  1985  Salvadorans  owned  an  estimated 
2  million  radio  receivers.  Although  the  majority  of  the  seventy-six 
stations  on  the  air  broadcast  from  San  Salvador,  the  country's  small 
size  and  the  use  of  repeater  stations  meant  that  virtually  all  of  the 
national  territory  was  within  broadcast  range.  There  was  only  one 
government-owned  radio  station.  Although  the  commercial  stations 
tended  to  emphasize  music  over  news  programming,  the  represen- 
tation of  competing  political  viewpoints  in  news  segments  was  be- 
coming a  common  practice  by  the  mid-1980s.  In  addition  to  the 
ERP's  Radio  Venceremos,  the  Farabundo  Marti  Popular  Libera- 
tion Forces  (Fuerzas  Populares  de  Liberacion  Farabundo  Marti — 
FPL)  operated  a  second  clandestine  station,  Radio  Farabundo 
Marti.  Both  stations  served  as  propaganda  organs  of  the  FMLN. 

According  to  many  observers,  television  was  the  medium  where 
increased  political  latitude  was  most  evident.  Television  news  crews 
covered  press  conferences  held  by  diverse  political  groups,  inter- 
viewed opposition  politicians  such  as  the  FDR's  Ungo  and  Zamora, 
and  investigated  allegations  of  human  rights  abuses  by  the  mili- 
tary and  security  forces.  Like  radio  stations,  television  stations  en- 
joyed virtually  complete  coverage  of  the  country.  Television  did 
not  have  the  market  penetration  exhibited  by  radio,  however,  be- 
cause of  the  higher  cost  of  television  receivers.  A  1985  estimate 
placed  the  number  of  receivers  at  350,000.  There  were  six  televi- 
sion channels  operating  in  the  late  1980s.  Of  these,  two  were 
government-owned  educational  channels  with  limited  air  time.  The 
remaining  four  were  commercial  channels. 

Foreign  Relations 

Relations  with  the  United  States 

As  the  civil  conflict  intensified  after  1981  and  its  effects  rippled 
through  the  economic  and  political  life  of  the  nation,  El  Salvador 
turned  toward  the  United  States  in  an  effort  to  stave  off  a  poten- 
tial guerrilla  victory.  The  administrations  of  presidents  Jimmy 
Carter  and  Ronald  Reagan  responded  to  the  Salvadorans'  appeals, 
and  by  the  mid-1980s  government  forces  appeared  to  have  the  upper 
hand  in  the  field  (see  The  United  States  Takes  a  Hand,  ch.  1). 

Total  United  States  aid  to  El  Salvador  rose  from  US$264.2  mil- 
lion in  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glossary)  1982  to  an  estimated  US$557.8 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


million  in  FY  1987.  On  average  over  this  period,  economic  aid 
exceeded  military  aid  by  more  than  a  two-to-one  ratio.  Economic 
aid  was  provided  in  the  form  of  Economic  Support  Funds  (ESF), 
food  aid  under  Public  Law  480  (P.L.  480),  and  development  aid 
administered  by  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  De- 
velopment (AID).  ESF  was  intended  to  provide  balance  of  pay- 
ments support  to  finance  essential  non-food  imports.  Assistance 
with  food  imports  as  well  as  the  direct  donation  of  foodstuffs  was 
accomplished  through  the  P.L.  480  program.  Development  aid 
covered  a  broad  spectrum  of  projects  in  such  fields  as  agriculture, 
population  planning,  health,  education,  and  training.  For  FY  1987, 
regular  non- supplemental  ESF  appropriations  totaled  US$181.7 
million,  and  combined  food  and  development  aid  amounted  to 
US$122.7  million.  The  regular  FY  1987  appropriation  for  mili- 
tary aid  was  US$116.5  million. 

This  aid  was  crucial  to  the  survival  of  the  Salvadoran  govern- 
ment and  the  ability  of  the  armed  forces  to  contain  the  insurgency. 
The  situation  amplified  the  personal  importance  of  Duarte  after 
his  1984  election  to  the  presidency.  Well  known  and  respected  in 
Washington,  Duarte  was  able  to  foster  a  consensus  within  the 
United  States  Congress  for  high  levels  of  aid  as  a  show  of  support 
for  the  incipient  democratic  process  in  his  country.  These  large 
aid  allocations,  in  turn,  promoted  stability  by  deterring  possible 
coup  attempts  by  conservative  factions  of  the  military  and  other 
opponents  of  PDC  rule.  At  the  same  time,  the  lifeline  of  aid  also 
rendered  El  Salvador  dependent  to  a  large  degree  on  the  United 
States.  A  certain  amount  of  popular  resentment  over  this  depen- 
dence was  reflected  in  adverse  reaction  from  some  Salvadoran  poli- 
ticians, journalists,  and  other  opinion  makers  to  Duarte' s  October 

1987  gesture  of  kissing  the  United  States  flag  while  on  a  visit  to 
Washington.  Some  analysts  also  identified  an  element  of  anti-United 
States  sentiment  in  Arena's  March  1988  electoral  victory. 

El  Salvador's  dependence  on  United  States  support  sometimes 
led  to  policy  moves  or  public  pronouncements  that  were  perceived 
as  responses  to  pressure  from  Washington.  The  1986  economic 
austerity  measures  were  one  example.  Another  was  Duarte 's  re- 
peated call  for  the  Nicaraguan  government  to  negotiate  with  its 
armed  opposition — the  so-called  contras — in  spite  of  the  president's 
public  refusal  to  endorse  the  United  States  policy  of  aid  to  the  con- 
tras. El  Salvador  also  was  quick  to  condemn  Panamanian  strong- 
man General  Manuel  Antonio  Noriega  Moreno  for  his  February 

1988  ouster  of  President  Eric  Arturo  Delvalle;  most  Latin  Ameri- 
can countries  were  somewhat  circumspect  with  regard  to  the 
Panamanian  situation,  not  wishing  to  be  seen  as  favoring  United 


183 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


States  intervention  in  that  country.  Some  actions  by  the  Salvadoran 
government  were  clearly  and  unequivocally  influenced  by  direct 
United  States  pressure,  such  as  Duarte 's  April  1987  decision  to 
deny  political  amnesty  to  the  convicted  killers  of  six  United  States 
citizens  and  others  in  a  June  1985  terrorist  attack  in  San  Salvador. 
By  taking  this  action,  Duarte  averted  the  loss  of  US$18.5  million 
in  economic  aid. 

Although  the  United  States  exerted  significant  influence  over 
government  policy  in  El  Salvador,  it  did  not  enjoy  the  absolute 
control  ascribed  to  it  by  leftist  propaganda.  In  some  areas,  Washing- 
ton's policy  goals  were  frustrated  by  the  intransigence  of  certain 
political  actors.  The  obstruction  of  full  implementation  of  agra- 
rian reform  by  conservative  legislators  was  one  example;  another 
was  resistance  among  the  officer  corps  to  the  introduction  of  coun- 
terinsurgency  tactics.  Perhaps  the  most  vexing  issue  for  United 
States  policymakers  was  human  rights.  Despite  an  impressive 
statistical  decline  in  the  mid-1980s,  political  killings  continued. 
These  acts,  perpetrated  by  both  right-wing  and  left-wing  groups, 
helped  to  feed  the  climate  of  violence  that  inhibited  the  institution- 
alization of  the  democratic  process. 

United  States  influence  in  El  Salvador  was  also  diminished  tem- 
porarily by  the  1986-87  revelations  surrounding  the  so-called  Iran- 
Contra  Affair.  The  Reagan  administration's  preoccupation  with 
these  revelations,  its  loss  of  international  prestige  in  connection  with 
them,  and  the  embarrassing  disclosure  of  covert  Salvadoran  mili- 
tary involvement  in  the  contra  supply  network  all  combined  to  les- 
sen United  States  involvement  in  and  influence  over  Salvadoran 
affairs.  Many  observers  have  seen  evidence  of  waning  United  States 
influence  in  Central  America  in  the  Duarte  administration's  deci- 
sion to  sign  the  Central  American  Peace  Agreement  in  August  1987 
at  Esquipulas,  Guatemala,  despite  the  last-minute  announcement 
of  an  alternative  peace  plan  by  Reagan  and  United  States  speaker 
of  the  House  of  Representatives,  James  Wright. 

Another  point  of  contention  between  the  two  governments  was 
United  States  immigration  reform.  By  most  estimates,  there  were 
some  500,000  Salvadorans  residing  illegally  in  the  United  States 
in  the  late  1980s.  Modifications  of  the  United  States  immigration 
law  enacted  in  1987  technically  mandated  the  expulsion  of  illegals 
who  had  entered  the  country  after  1982.  Since  the  bulk  of  Salva- 
doran illegal  immigration  took  place  after  that  date,  the  new  law 
threatened  the  majority  of  this  population  with  repatriation.  This 
prospect  was  worrisome  to  the  Duarte  government  for  two  major 
reasons:  such  a  large  influx  was  certain  to  place  added  strain  on 
employment  and  public  services,  already  areas  of  serious  concern 


184 


President  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte 
Fuentes  confers  with  President  Ronald  Reagan,  October  1987 

Courtesy  The  White  House 

for  the  government;  and  the  return  of  Salvadorans  resident  in  the 
United  States  meant  the  loss  of  dollar-denominated  remittances  regu- 
larly transmitted  to  family  members  who  had  remained  behind  in 
El  Salvador.  Estimates  of  the  total  amount  of  remittance  income — a 
valuable  source  of  foreign  exchange  for  the  economy — ranged  as 
high  as  US$1.4  billion  a  year.  Duarte's  pleas  for  a  Salvadoran  ex- 
emption from  the  immigration  reform  were  denied  by  the  White 
House.  Action  to  deport  Salvadoran  illegals,  however,  was  held  up 
pending  consideration  in  the  United  States  Congress  of  bills  grant- 
ing exemptions  to  Salvadoran  and  Nicaraguan  immigrants. 

Relations  between  the  United  States  and  El  Salvador  appeared 
to  be  entering  a  period  of  transition  after  the  March  1988  elections. 
Under  both  the  Carter  and  the  Reagan  administrations,  United 
States  policy  had  supported  the  centrist  PDC  as  the  surest  path  to 
the  development  of  a  functional  democratic  system.  The  decline  of 
the  PDC  and  the  ascendancy  of  Arena  called  for  some  adjustment 
in  that  policy.  Despite  some  marked  anti-United  States  sentiment 
among  the  areneros,  there  were  no  early  indications  of  potential  fric- 
tion between  the  United  States  and  an  Arena  government.  The  nomi- 
nation of  Cristiani  as  the  party's  1989  presidential  candidate  instead 
of  the  more  controversial  D'Aubuisson  was  seen  by  some  observers 
as  a  conciliatory  gesture  toward  Washington. 


185 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

The  Crisis  in  Central  America 

During  the  Duarte  administration,  most  Salvadoran  foreign  pol- 
icy efforts  were  focused  on  Central  America  and  the  potential  reso- 
lution of  political  conflict  that  manifested  itself  in  the  form  of 
antigovernment  insurgencies  in  El  Salvador,  Nicaragua,  and 
Guatemala.  Although  Costa  Rica  and  Honduras  had  not  ex- 
perienced insurgencies,  their  governments  were  concerned  with 
potential  political  spillover  from  neighboring  states.  By  the  early 
1980s,  most  observers  agreed  that,  given  the  historical,  familial, 
geographic,  and  economic  interrelationship  of  the  Central  Ameri- 
can states,  a  regional  solution  to  this  crisis  was  the  most  logical 
and  efficacious  approach.  Early  efforts  toward  this  end  in  the  United 
Nations  (UN)  and  the  Organization  of  American  States  (OAS), 
as  well  as  tentative  mediating  efforts  by  the  governments  of  Mexico 
and  Venezuela,  failed  to  make  any  substantive  progress  toward 
the  institution  of  a  regional  negotiating  process.  It  was  not  until 
1983  and  the  establishment  of  the  Contadora  Group  that  serious 
negotiating  efforts  began  among  the  five  Central  American  states. 

The  Contadora  Process 

The  Contadora  negotiating  process  was  initiated  in  January  1983 
at  a  meeting  of  the  foreign  ministers  of  Mexico,  Venezuela,  Colom- 
bia, and  Panama  on  Contadora  Island  in  the  Gulf  of  Panama.  The 
idea  of  a  purely  Latin  American  diplomatic  effort  to  stabilize  the 
Central  American  situation  and  prevent  either  military  confron- 
tation between  neighboring  states  or  direct  military  intervention 
by  the  United  States  was  attributed  to  then-president  of  Colombia 
Belisario  Betancur  Cuartas.  These  "Core  Four"  countries  served 
as  mediators  in  subsequent  negotiating  sessions  among  the  five  Cen- 
tral American  states. 

By  September  1983,  the  negotiations  had  arrived  at  a  consen- 
sus on  twenty-one  points  or  objectives.  These  included  democrati- 
zation and  internal  reconciliation,  an  end  to  external  support  for 
paramilitary  forces,  reductions  in  weaponry  and  foreign  military 
advisers,  prohibition  of  foreign  military  bases,  and  reactivation  of 
regional  economic  mechanisms  such  as  the  Central  American  Com- 
mon Market.  The  twenty-one  points  were  incorporated  into  a  draft 
treaty,  or  acta,  one  year  later. 

In  September  1984,  the  Nicaraguan  government  took  the  other 
four  government  delegations  by  surprise  with  its  call  for  the  im- 
mediate signing  of  the  acta  as  a  final  treaty.  The  governments  of 
El  Salvador,  Honduras,  Guatemala,  and  Costa  Rica  had  been  sus- 
picious of  Nicaraguan  intentions  throughout  the  negotiating  process. 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


This  precipitous  rush  to  finalize  the  process  forced  the  four  to  reas- 
sess their  positions  and  to  examine  more  closely  a  document  that 
they  previously  might  have  viewed  as  little  more  than  a  diplomat- 
ic exercise.  The  United  States  government,  which  had  been  ad- 
vising the  Salvadorans  informally  with  regard  to  the  negotiations, 
strongly  recommended  against  signing  the  acta,  citing  its  lack  of 
adequate  verification  and  enforcement  provisions,  its  deferral  of 
the  issues  of  reductions  in  arms  and  foreign  advisers,  the  freezing 
of  United  States  military  aid  to  El  Salvador  and  Honduras,  and 
the  vagueness  of  the  sections  on  democratization  and  internal  recon- 
ciliation. Although  Nicaragua's  action  had  the  effect  of  embarrass- 
ing the  governments  of  the  other  four  states  and  portraying 
Nicaragua  before  world  public  opinion  as  the  only  serious  negoti- 
ator in  the  Contadora  process,  it  ultimately  succeeded  in  drawing 
the  remaining  four  Central  American  states  into  closer  consultation. 
This  collaboration  led  to  the  October  1984  Act  of  Tegucigalpa  in 
which  the  governments  of  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  and  Costa  Rica 
emphasized  their  commitment  to  the  establishment  of  pluralistic 
democratic  systems  and  their  belief  that  simultaneous  and  verifia- 
ble arms  reductions  were  a  necessary  component  of  this  process. 
The  Guatemalan  government  was  represented  in  the  discussions 
in  the  Honduran  capital  but  declined  to  sign  the  resultant  document. 

Although  improved  verification  procedures  were  negotiated,  the 
talks  bogged  down  by  mid- 1985.  The  Nicaraguan  delegates  rejected 
discussion  of  democratization  and  internal  reconciliation  as  an  un- 
warranted intervention  in  their  country's  internal  affairs.  The  other 
four  states  maintained  that  these  provisions  were  necessary  to  en- 
sure a  lasting  settlement.  Another  major  sticking  point  was  the  ces- 
sation of  aid  to  insurgent  groups,  particularly  United  States  aid 
to  the  contras.  Although  the  United  States  government  was  not  a 
party  to  the  Contadora  negotiations,  it  was  understood  that  the 
United  States  would  sign  a  separate  protocol  agreeing  to  the  terms 
of  a  final  treaty  in  such  areas  as  aid  to  insurgents,  military  aid  and 
assistance  to  Central  American  governments,  and  joint  military 
exercises  in  the  region.  The  Nicaraguans  demanded  that  any  Con- 
tadora treaty  call  for  an  immediate  end  to  contra  aid,  whereas  the 
core  four  countries  and  the  remaining  Central  American  states, 
with  the  exception  of  Mexico,  downplayed  the  importance  of  such 
a  provision.  In  addition,  the  Nicaraguan  government  raised  ob- 
jections to  specific  cuts  in  its  military  force  levels,  citing  the  im- 
peratives of  the  counterinsurgency  campaign  and  defense  against 
a  potential  United  States  invasion.  In  an  effort  to  break  this  im- 
passe, the  governments  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  Peru,  and  Uruguay 
announced  in  July  1985  that  they  were  joining  the  Contadora 


187 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

process  as  a  "support  group"  in  an  effort  to  resolve  the  remaining 
points  of  contention  and  achieve  a  comprehensive  agreement. 

Despite  the  combined  efforts  of  the  core  four  and  the  "support 
group,"  the  Contadora  process  unofficially  came  to  a  halt  in  June 
1986,  when  the  Central  American  countries  still  could  not  resolve 
their  differences  sufficiently  to  permit  the  signing  of  a  final  treaty 
draft.  Later  that  month,  the  United  States  Congress  approved 
US$100  million  in  aid  to  the  contras  in  spite  of  numerous  requests 
from  the  Contadora  group  to  refrain  from  such  unilateral  action. 
Although  the  core  four  and  support  group  countries  vowed  to  con- 
tinue their  diplomatic  efforts  and  did  convene  negotiating  sessions 
subsequent  to  the  unsuccessful  June  6  meeting  in  Panama  City, 
the  Contadora  process  was  clearly  moribund.  The  Central  Ameri- 
can states,  with  the  exception  of  Nicaragua,  resolved  to  continue 
the  negotiating  process  on  their  own  without  the  benefit  of  outside 
mediation. 

The  Arias  Plan 

Throughout  the  Contadora  negotiations,  El  Salvador's  objec- 
tives included  the  preservation  of  its  military  aid  and  assistance 
relationship  with  the  United  States;  the  resolution  of  the  civil  con- 
flict on  terms  consistent  with  the  1983  Constitution — that  is,  through 
incorporation  of  the  rebels  into  the  established  system  rather  than 
through  a  power- sharing  arrangement;  and  a  verifiable  termina- 
tion of  Nicaraguan  military  and  logistical  aid  to  the  FMLN  insur- 
gents. On  the  final  point,  the  Salvadorans  felt,  along  with  the 
Hondurans  and  Costa  Ricans,  that  the  liberalization  of  the 
Sandinista-dominated  government  in  Nicaragua  was  the  surest 
guarantor  of  success.  Given  the  unanimity  of  opinion  among  these 
three  governments  and  the  less  emphatic  but  still  supportive 
response  of  the  government  of  Guatemalan  president  Marco  Vinicio 
Cerezo  Arevalo,  the  regional  consenus  of  opinion  seemed  to  be  that 
a  streamlined,  strictly  Central  American  peace  initiative  stood  a 
better  chance  of  success  than  the  by  then  unwieldy  Contadora 
process. 

The  five  Central  American  presidents  had  held  a  meeting  in  May 
1986  in  Esquipulas,  Guatemala,  in  an  effort  to  work  out  their  differ- 
ences over  the  revised  Contadora  draft  treaty.  This  meeting  was 
a  precursor  of  the  process  that  in  early  1987  superseded  Contadora. 
The  leading  proponent  and  architect  of  this  process  was  the  presi- 
dent of  Costa  Rica,  Oscar  Arias  Sanchez.  After  consultations  with 
representatives  of  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  Guatemala,  and  the 
United  States,  Arias  announced  on  February  15,  1987,  that  he  had 
presented  a  peace  proposal  to  representatives  of  the  other  Central 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


American  states,  with  the  exception  of  Nicaragua.  The  plan  called 
for  dialogue  between  governments  and  opposition  groups,  amnesty 
for  political  prisoners,  cease-fires  in  ongoing  insurgent  conflicts, 
democratization,  and  free  elections  in  all  five  regional  states.  The 
plan  also  called  for  renewed  negotiations  on  arms  reductions  and 
an  end  to  outside  aid  to  insurgent  forces. 

The  first  formal  negotiating  session  to  include  representatives 
of  the  Nicaraguan  government  was  held  in  Tegucigalpa  on  July  3 1 , 
1987.  At  that  meeting  of  foreign  ministers,  the  Salvadoran  dele- 
gation pressed  the  concept  of  simultaneous  implementation  of  pro- 
visions such  as  the  declaration  of  cease-fires  and  amnesties  and  the 
denial  of  support  or  safehaven  for  insurgent  forces.  This  approach 
reportedly  softened  the  attitude  of  the  Nicaraguans,  who  had  come 
to  the  meeting  declaring  opposition  to  any  agreement  that  did  not 
require  a  prior  cutoff  of  foreign  support  to  the  contras. 

The  Tegucigalpa  meeting  paved  the  way  for  an  August  6,  1987, 
gathering  of  the  five  Central  American  presidents  in  Esquipulas. 
The  negotiations  among  the  presidents  reportedly  were  marked  by 
blunt  accusations  and  sharp  exchanges,  particularly  between  Duarte 
and  Nicaraguan  president  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra.  Duarte 's 
primary  concern  was  Nicaraguan  aid  to  the  Salvadoran  guerril- 
las, and  he  was  reported  to  have  pressed  Ortega  repeatedly  on  this 
issue.  The  Nicaraguan  president's  responses  apparently  reassured 
Duarte,  who  consented  to  sign  the  agreement.  His  decision  to  do 
so  despite  signals  of  disapproval  from  Washington  reflected  only 
in  part  the  diminished  influence  of  the  Reagan  administration  in 
light  of  the  Iran-Contra  Affair;  it  was  also  a  calculated  move  based 
on  the  Salvadoran  president's  belief  that  a  more  favorable  treaty 
was  not  achievable.  The  final  agreement,  signed  on  August  7,  called 
for  the  cessation  of  outside  aid  and  support  to  insurgent  forces  but 
did  not  require  the  elimination  or  reduction  of  such  aid  to  govern- 
ment forces.  If  they  proved  to  be  enforceable,  these  provisions  would 
work  to  the  benefit  of  the  Salvadoran  government  and  to  the  detri- 
ment of  the  FMLN,  since  the  insurgents  would  be  expected  to  forgo 
outside  assistance  while  the  government  could  continue  to  receive 
military  aid  from  the  United  States.  The  agreement  also  urged  di- 
alogue with  opposition  groups  "in  accordance  with  the  law"  and 
was  therefore  compatible  with  the  Duarte  government's  efforts  and 
preconditions  for  negotiations  with  rebel  forces.  The  Salvadorans 
were  already  in  compliance  with  the  sections  calling  for  press  free- 
dom, political  pluralism,  and  abolition  of  state-of-siege  restrictions. 

The  Central  American  Peace  Agreement,  variously  referred  to 
as  the  "Guatemala  Plan,"  "Esquipulas  II,"  or  the  "Arias  Plan," 
initially  required  the  implementation  by  November  5,  1987,  of 


189 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

certain  conditions,  including  decrees  of  amnesty  in  those  countries 
involved  in  insurgent  conflicts;  the  initiation  of  dialogue  between 
governments  and  unarmed  political  opposition  groups  or  groups 
that  had  taken  advantage  of  amnesty;  the  undertaking  of  efforts 
to  negotiate  cease-fires  between  governments  and  insurgent  groups; 
the  cessation  of  outside  aid  to  insurgent  forces  as  well  as  denying 
the  use  of  each  country's  national  territory  to  "groups  trying  to 
destabilize  the  governments  of  the  countries  of  Central  America;" 
and  the  assurance  of  conditions  conducive  to  the  development  of 
a  "pluralistic  and  participatory  democratic  process"  in  all  the  sig- 
natory states. 

A  meeting  of  the  Central  American  foreign  ministers  held  one 
week  prior  to  November  5  effectively  extended  the  deadline  by  in- 
terpreting that  date  as  the  requirement  for  initiation,  not  comple- 
tion, of  the  agreement's  provisions.  The  Salvadoran  government, 
however,  had  already  taken  several  steps  by  that  time  to  comply 
with  the  agreement.  Direct  talks  between  the  government  and 
representatives  of  the  FMLN-FDR  held  in  October  failed  to  reach 
agreement  on  terms  for  a  cease-fire.  The  talks  were  broken  off  by 
the  rebels,  ostensibly  in  protest  over  the  death  squad-style  murder 
of  a  Salvadoran  human  rights  investigator.  Duarte  proceeded  to 
declare  a  unilateral  fifteen-day  cease-fire  to  enable  guerrilla  com- 
batants to  take  advantage  of  an  amnesty  program  approved  by  the 
Legislative  Assembly  on  October  27. 

Overall  compliance  with  the  Arias  Plan  was  uneven  by  late  1988, 
and  the  process  appeared  to  be  losing  momentum.  One  round  of 
talks  took  place  between  the  Cerezo  administration  and  represen- 
tatives of  the  Guatemalan  guerrilla  front  in  Madrid,  Spain,  on 
October  6-7,  1987.  President  Cerezo  discontinued  this  effort, 
however,  claiming  that  the  guerrilla  representatives  had  taken  an 
unrealistic  and  unreasonable  bargaining  position.  The  Nicaraguan 
government  took  a  number  of  initial  steps  to  comply  with  the  treaty, 
such  as  allowing  the  independent  daily  La  Prensa  to  reopen  and  the 
radio  station  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  to  resume  broadcast- 
ing, establishing  a  national  reconciliation  committee  that  incorpo- 
rated representatives  of  the  unarmed  opposition,  and  eventually 
undertaking  cease-fire  negotiations  with  representatives  of  the 
contras.  The  optimism  engendered  by  the  signature  of  a  provisional 
cease-fire  accord  on  March  23,  1988,  at  Sapoa,  Nicaragua,  how- 
ever, had  largely  dissipated  by  July,  when  the  government  broke 
up  a  protest  demonstration  in  the  southern  city  of  Nandaime,  ex- 
pelled the  United  States  ambassador  and  seven  other  diplomats  for 
alleged  collaboration  with  the  demonstrators,  and  again  shut  down 
La  Prensa  and  the  Catholic  radio  station.  In  El  Salvador,  although 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


the  FMLN-FDR  had  been  persuaded  by  President  Arias  to  accept 
the  plan  as  the  basis  for  negotiations  with  the  Salvadoran  govern- 
ment, neither  side  made  any  immediate  effort  to  resume  the  direct 
talks  broken  off  in  October  1987.  A  definitive  cease-fire,  therefore, 
remained  elusive.  The  Salvadoran  government  also  maintained  that 
the  Sandinistas  continued  to  provide  aid  and  support  to  the  FMLN. 
In  January  1988,  the  Salvadorans  protested  before  an  international 
commission  monitoring  compliance  with  the  treaty  that  the  head- 
quarters of  the  FMLN  general  command  continued  to  function  from 
a  location  near  Managua,  the  Nicaraguan  capital,  that  FMLN 
training  and  propaganda  facilities  continued  to  operate  in 
Nicaragua,  and  that  arms  deliveries  from  Nicaragua  to  El  Salvador 
persisted  after  the  signing  of  the  peace  treaty  on  August  7.  The 
effect  of  the  PDC's  political  decline  and  Arena's  higher  govern- 
ment profile  on  the  future  course  of  the  Arias  Plan  was  unclear 
as  the  country  approached  the  1989  presidential  elections. 

El  Salvador  maintained  normal  bilateral  diplomatic  relations  with 
the  countries  of  Central  America  despite  the  strains  of  regional  un- 
rest, uncertainty  over  the  intentions  of  the  Sandinistas,  and  lin- 
gering disputes  with  Honduras.  In  the  late  1980s,  relations  with 
Guatemala,  governed  by  an  ideologically  compatible  Christian 
democratic  government,  and  with  Costa  Rica  were  stable.  Differ- 
ences with  Nicaragua  were  rooted  in  basic  ideological  conflict, 
however,  and  appeared  likely  to  persist.  Although  neighboring  Hon- 
duras was  experiencing  a  democratic  transition  not  unlike  that  tak- 
ing place  in  El  Salvador,  several  points  of  contention  prevented 
the  full  establishment  of  close  and  cooperative  ties.  The  most  in- 
tangible of  these  frictions  was  lingering  ill  will,  especially  between 
the  two  countries'  respective  military  establishments,  over  the  1969 
"Soccer  War"  (see  The  1969  War  with  Honduras,  ch.  1).  Another 
dispute  revolved  around  the  future  disposition  of  Salvadoran  refu- 
gees residing  in  Honduras.  In  early  1988,  there  were  an  estimated 
20,000  such  refugees  housed  in  a  number  of  camps  in  Honduras, 
some  of  which  were  administered  by  the  office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (see  Migration,  ch.  2).  Despite 
ongoing  security  problems  posed  by  the  insurgency,  a  resettlement 
program  initiated  in  1986  by  the  Salvadoran  government  in  cooper- 
ation with  domestic  and  international  relief  agencies  had  assisted 
in  the  return  of  some  10,000  Salvadoran  refugees.  Complete  repatri- 
ation from  the  camps,  as  advocated  by  the  Honduran  government, 
seemed  to  be  contingent  on  a  further  winding  down  of  the  in- 
surgency. 

The  main  stumbling  block  in  Salvadoran-Honduran  rela- 
tions, however,  was  the  failure  of  the  two  countries  to  agree  to  a 


191 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

demarcation  of  their  border.  This  dispute  was  another  legacy  of 
the  1969  war,  although  it  also  had  deeper  historical  roots.  Several 
agreements  negotiated  during  the  nineteenth  century  attempted 
to  define  the  boundaries  between  the  two  states,  but  periodic  dis- 
putes persisted.  The  1969  war  further  complicated  this  situation, 
as  Salvadoran  troops  pushed  over  a  border  that  had  never  been 
firmly  demarcated  and  briefly  occupied  Honduran  territory.  So 
contentious  was  the  territorial  dispute  that  a  final  peace  treaty  be- 
tween the  two  countries  was  not  signed  until  October  1980,  and 
even  then  only  225  of  the  border's  343  kilometers  were  definitively 
delimited.  The  remaining  disputed  "pockets"  (bolsones)  along  the 
border,  along  with  island  and  maritime  areas,  were  submitted  to 
a  joint  border  commission  for  resolution.  At  the  end  of  its  five- 
year  mandate,  the  commission  had  not  achieved  agreement.  Direct 
government-to-government  talks  also  failed  to  resolve  the  issue. 
The  dispute,  therefore,  was  submitted  to  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  at  The  Hague,  Netherlands,  for  adjudication.  A  deci- 
sion was  not  expected  until  the  late  1980s. 

Relations  with  Other  Nations 

As  the  Salvadoran  civil  conflict  continued  during  the  1980s,  the 
imperative  of  maintaining  support  from  the  United  States  and  the 
protracted  diplomatic  efforts  to  achieve  a  regional  settlement  in  Cen- 
tral America  consumed  most  of  the  country's  foreign  policy  efforts. 
Although  relations  with  other  nations  occupied  a  distinctly  lower 
priority,  the  Duarte  administration  did  make  an  effort  to  improve 
El  Salvador's  standing  in  Western  Europe. 

Duarte  made  an  official  trip  to  Western  Europe  in  July  1984 
with  two  major  goals  in  mind:  to  secure  foreign  economic  aid  funds, 
some  of  which  had  been  discontinued  earlier  in  the  decade  as  a 
result  of  his  country's  poor  human  rights  record  under  military 
rule,  and  to  convince  West  European  leaders  that  real  political  and 
social  reform  was  possible  in  El  Salvador.  The  governments  of  most 
West  European  countries  were  on  record  as  supporting  the  inclu- 
sion of  the  FDR  or  even  the  FMLN  in  a  negotiated  power-sharing 
government.  The  1981  declaration  by  France  and  Mexico  recog- 
nizing the  FMLN-FDR  as  a  "representative  political  force"  was 
the  most  prominent  product  of  this  European  foreign  policy  cur- 
rent. The  FDR  and  its  president,  Ungo,  maintained  close  ties  with 
social  democratic  parties  in  Europe;  the  FDR  also  served  as  the 
Salvadoran  representative  to  the  Socialist  International,  the  world- 
wide association  of  social  democratic  parties,  and  effectively  used 
this  forum  to  press  its  case  against  the  existing  government  in  El 
Salvador. 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


Duarte  was  received  by  the  heads  of  state  in  the  Federal  Repub- 
lic of  Germany  (West  Germany),  France,  Portugal,  Belgium,  and 
Britain.  The  most  productive  meeting  from  the  Salvadoran  stand- 
point was  that  with  Chancellor  Helmut  Kohl  of  West  Germany. 
Kohl,  a  Christian  Democrat,  announced  the  resumption  of  Ger- 
man economic  aid  to  El  Salvador,  aid  that  had  been  discontinued 
five  years  previously  by  the  social  democratic  government  of  Helmut 
Schmidt.  Duarte  was  also  warmly  received  by  British  prime  minister 
Margaret  Thatcher,  although  no  aid  agreement  resulted  from  his 
visit.  The  Salvadoran  president  failed  to  achieve  one  specific  goal 
of  his  trip  when  French  president  Francois  Mitterrand  declined  to 
modify  or  reject  the  1981  Franco-Mexican  declaration.  Neverthe- 
less, the  French  position  vis-a-vis  the  Duarte  government  generally 
was  perceived  as  more  supportive  after  the  July  1984  visit;  in  1985 
France  shifted  the  residence  of  its  ambassador  from  Belmopan, 
Belize,  to  San  Salvador,  partially  in  recognition  of  improved  security 
conditions  in  the  Salvadoran  capital. 

El  Salvador  received  a  limited  amount  of  economic  development 
assistance  from  Canada  in  the  late  1980s.  Canadian  concerns  over 
the  increasing  number  of  Salvadoran  immigrants  to  that  country 
as  a  result  of  more  restrictive  United  States  immigration  laws, 
however,  could  prompt  Canada  to  review  the  low  priority  of  its 
dealings  with  El  Salvador.  In  May  1988,  the  Salvadoran  foreign 
minister  paid  the  first  official  visit  by  a  Salvadoran  official  to  Japan. 
He  returned  with  pledges  of  Japanese  aid  in  the  San  Salvador  recon- 
struction effort  necessitated  by  the  October  1986  earthquake,  as 
well  as  very  low-level  commitments  to  fund  or  donate  equipment 
for  sanitation,  agriculture,  and  sports  and  cultural  projects.  The 
Japanese  government  also  promised  to  take  steps  to  appoint  a  resi- 
dent ambassador. 

El  Salvador  did  not  maintain  diplomatic  relations  with  any  com- 
munist countries  in  the  late  1980s  and  did  not  recognize  China. 
Its  continued  recognition  of  Taiwan  reflected  the  historically  con- 
servative thrust  of  the  country's  foreign  policy.  In  a  similar  vein, 
El  Salvador  was  one  of  only  two  countries  in  the  world  (Costa  Rica 
being  the  other)  to  maintain  its  embassy  to  Israel  in  Jerusalem  rather 
than  Tel  Aviv. 

*     *  * 

Enrique  A.  Baloyra's  El  Salvador  in  Transition  and  numerous  sub- 
sequent articles  provide  useful  and  objective  insights  into  the  work- 
ings of  Salvadoran  politics  and  foreign  relations.  Other  authors, 
such  as  Kenneth  E.  Sharpe,  Terry  Lynn  Karl,  and  Jose  Z.  Garcia, 


193 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

have  followed  events  in  El  Salvador  closely  and  written  informa- 
tive articles  as  well.  Because  of  the  country's  high  profile  in  United 
States  foreign  policy,  most  major  newspapers  provide  adequate 
coverage  of  developments;  these  reports  can  be  supplemented, 
however,  by  publications  with  a  regional  focus,  such  as  the  Latin 
American  Weekly  Report,  Latin  America  Regional  Reports:  Mexico  and  Cen- 
tral America,  and  Latin  American  Monitor:  Central  America. 

With  regard  to  the  Contadora  process  and  related  diplomatic, 
political,  and  security  developments  in  Central  America,  Susan 
Kaufman  Purcell's  *  'Demystifying  Contadora"  and  "The  Choice 
in  Central  America"  provide  accurate  reporting  of  events  while 
also  attempting  to  explain  the  motivations  of  all  actors  involved. 
Bruce  Michael  Bagley's  "Contadora:  The  Failure  of  Democracy" 
also  provides  a  good  overview  of  the  process.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


194 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Salvadoran  Army  recruit 


IN  THE  POST-COLONIAL,  PRE-COFFEE  ERA  of  the  early 
nineteenth  century,  incipient  army  and  police  forces  emerged 
primarily  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  the  expanding  indigo  plan- 
tations (fincas)  and  controlling  the  rural  population.  In  return  for 
these  services,  a  large  landowner  would  assume  the  role  of  quar- 
termaster or  patron  {patron)  for  his  contingent  of  troops.  Conse- 
quently, the  interests  of  the  military  and  paramilitary  forces  became 
closely  identified  with  those  of  the  economic  elite. 

The  army  developed  gradually,  aided  in  the  late  nineteenth  cen- 
tury by  the  French  military  and  in  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth 
century  by  other  European  and  Chilean  military  influences.  Spain 
played  an  important  role  in  establishing  the  National  Police  and 
the  National  Guard  in  the  World  War  I  period. 

After  seizing  power  in  1931,  the  military  continued  to  do  the 
oligarchy's  bidding,  as  exemplified  by  its  brutal  suppression  of  a 
communist-led  peasant  insurrection  in  1932,  an  event  that  became 
known  as  la  matanza  (the  massacre).  For  the  next  five  decades,  the 
military — in  league  with  the  large  landholding  interests — controlled 
El  Salvador's  political  system  through  repression,  rigged  elections, 
and  coups.  The  military  allowed  moderate  social  and  economic  re- 
forms, however,  depending  on  which  of  its  liberal  or  conservative 
factions  was  in  power.  During  the  1931-70  period,  in  which  seven 
of  nine  military  coup  attempts  succeeded,  eight  of  the  nine  presi- 
dents were  army  officers.  The  one  civilian  president  in  that  period 
served  only  four  months  before  being  replaced  by  an  officer.  The 
military  presidents  ruled  with  the  tacit  consent  of  the  oligarchy. 
Although  this  informal  alliance  favored  maintenance  of  the  gen- 
eral status  quo,  it  provided  the  country  with  four  decades  of  com- 
parative political  stability  and  moderate  social  reforms. 

Reformist  military  officers  tried  unsuccessfully  on  several 
occasions — such  as  in  1960  and  1972 — to  take  control  of  the  mili- 
tary and  the  government  in  order  to  end  military  corruption  and 
repression,  as  well  as  to  establish  moderate  reforms  and  democratic 
institutions.  Hoping  to  avoid  a  Nicaraguan-style  guerrilla  war, 
reformist  field-grade  and  junior  officers  (colonels,  majors,  captains, 
and  lieutenants)  deposed  the  repressive  and  corrupt  regime  of 
General  Carlos  Humberto  Romero  Mena  on  October  15,  1979, 
and  established  a  civil-military  government.  Under  United  States 
prodding,  the  military  eventually  stepped  aside  and  allowed  a  tran- 
sition to  democratic  rule. 


197 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Until  the  1980s,  the  army's  primary  mission  had  been  to  de- 
fend the  nation  from  external  aggression.  By  1981,  after  El  Sal- 
vador signed  a  peace  agreement  with  Honduras  formally  ending 
the  1969  war  and  the  newly  organized  Farabundo  Marti  National 
Liberation  Front  launched  a  large-scale  guerrilla  offensiye,  the 
army's  mission  focused  primarily  on  counterinsurgency.  The  Sal- 
vadoran  military  had  to  reorient  itself,  changing  from  a  conven- 
tional force  that  was  organized,  trained,  and  equipped  to  defend 
the  country  against  a  traditional  foreign  rival,  Honduras,  into  a 
more  aggressive  military  capable  of  waging  a  counterinsurgency 
war  against  elusive  guerrillas  supported  by  Cuba,  Nicaragua,  and 
other  communist  or  radical  states.  For  assistance  in  combating  the 
insurgency,  the  military  relied  almost  totally  on  the  United  States. 
Although  massive  United  States  military  assistance  had  averted  a 
victory  by  the  rebels,  the  conflict  remained  stalemated  in  late  1988, 
and  peace  talks  between  the  government  and  the  rebels — numbering 
between  6,000  and  8,000  armed  combatants — were  still  at  an  im- 
passe. Right-wing  death  squad  groups  were  not  nearly  as  active 
as  in  the  early  1980s,  but  they  continued  to  make  their  presence 
known  in  1988  by  killing  several  dozen  individuals  involved  in 
human  rights  groups  or  left-wing  activism. 

Although  the  Salvadoran  military  had  a  long  record  of  interven- 
ing in  governmental  matters  and  being  arbitrarily  repressive,  cor- 
rupt, and  inefficient,  by  the  late  1980s  it  had  become  a  more 
pragmatic  and  professional  entity  that  was  more  apolitical,  more 
respectful  of  human  rights,  and  much  better  equipped  and  trained 
for  counterinsurgency.  Whereas  in  the  early  1980s  the  military  often 
disregarded  human  rights  considerations  in  its  pursuit  of  the  guer- 
rillas, counterinsurgency  operations  conducted  in  the  late  1980s 
under  the  purview  of  the  civilian  government  of  President  Jose 
Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes  were  characterized  by  a  general  com- 
mitment to  respect  the  human  rights  of  Salvadoran  citizens  and 
conduct  the  war  in  a  more  humanitarian  manner.  For  example, 
in  compliance  with  Duarte 's  directive  regarding  the  use  of  aerial 
fire  support,  the  Salvadoran  Air  Force  was  careful  to  avoid  in- 
discriminate bombing.  Whereas  mass  killings  as  a  result  of  in- 
discriminate attacks  by  the  military  were  frequent  in  the  early  1980s, 
they  were  rarely  reported  in  the  late  1980s.  Moreover,  the  mili- 
tary had  made  no  attempt  to  stage  a  coup  against  the  Duarte  govern- 
ment as  of  the  last  quarter  of  1988,  despite  its  lack  of  enthusiasm 
for  Duarte' s  policies  in  dealing  with  the  guerrillas. 

The  political  violence  of  the  1980s  further  debilitated  El  Sal- 
vador's historically  weak  criminal  justice  system.  Politically  moti- 
vated homicides,  in  particular,  were  rarely  investigated  or  brought 


198 


National  Security 


to  trial.  Although  the  Duarte  government  tried  to  uphold  the  rule 
of  law  and  reform  the  system,  acts  of  vengeance  and  vigilantism 
had  become  rampant  because  of  a  lack  of  public  confidence  in  the 
court  system. 

Evolution  of  the  Military's  Role  in  Society 
and  Government 

The  Oligarchy's  Private  Army,  1824-1931 

The  Salvadoran  Army,  like  others  in  the  region,  developed  from 
the  city-based  militia  of  the  colonial  period.  Suppression  of  frequent 
Indian  rebellions  throughout  the  region  and  enforcement  of  tax, 
labor,  and  other  obligations  required  of  the  Indians  were  principal 
functions  of  the  militia  and  incipient  armies  during  colonial  times 
and  carried  over  into  the  immediate  postcolonial  period.  General 
Manuel  Jose  Arce,  the  first  president  of  a  regional  federation  called 
the  United  Provinces  of  Central  America,  which  was  established 
in  1823,  created  the  first  genuinely  Salvadoran  army  in  1824  (see 
El  Salvador  and  the  United  Provinces  of  Central  America,  ch.  1). 
He  did  this  by  consolidating  a  number  of  widely  scattered  cavalry 
units,  which  had  fought  against  incursions  by  the  army  of  the  self- 
proclaimed  Mexican  emperor  Agustin  de  Iturbide,  and  placing 
them  under  a  central  command.  El  Salvador's  Armed  Forces  Day, 
called  the  Day  of  the  Salvadoran  Soldier,  has  been  celebrated  ever 
since  on  the  date  of  the  formal  unification,  May  7. 

In  1825  two  French  military  advisers  helped  to  modernize  Arce's 
militia,  which  saw  considerable  action  in  the  internecine  conflict 
between  liberal  and  conservative  forces.  After  the  federation  col- 
lapsed in  1840,  newly  independent  El  Salvador  inherited  most  of 
Arce's  troops.  The  resulting  Salvadoran  Army  was  basically  a  light 
cavalry  with  independent  squadrons  of  dragoons.  Unlike  the 
region's  other  armies,  most  of  which  resembled  bandit  gangs  dur- 
ing most  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Salvadoran  Army  had  de- 
veloped by  the  1850s  into  a  balanced  and  relatively  disciplined  force 
of  infantry,  cavalry,  and  artillery.  Officers  were  almost  exclusively 
criollos. 

President  Gerardo  Barrios  (1858-63)  brought  in  another  French 
military  mission,  which  reorganized  the  militia  into  a  European- 
style  national  army.  Barrios  also  used  Colombian  advisers  to  im- 
prove the  conduct,  appearance,  and  discipline  of  the  army  and 
militia.  In  1867  the  French  military  mission  assisted  President  Fran- 
cisco Duefias  (1852-58  and  1863-67)  in  establishing  an  officer- 
training  school  that  eventually  became  the  Captain  General  Gerardo 
Barrios  Military  Academy  (Escuela  Militar  Capitan  General 
Gerardo  Barrios). 


199 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

The  military  supported  the  coffee  oligarchy  that  emerged  in  the 
1880s  by  functioning  as  an  internal  police  force  to  suppress  fre- 
quent peasant  rebellions.  In  return,  the  landowners  protected  the 
military's  interests  and  underwrote  its  expansion  and  profession- 
alization,  thereby  laying  the  foundations  of  what  became  the  most 
powerful  institution  in  El  Salvador  in  the  twentieth  century.  Presi- 
dent Carlos  Erzeta  (1890-94)  founded  the  Military  Hospital  in  San 
Salvador,  opened  the  Noncommissioned  Officers  School  (Escuela 
de  Suboficiales),  and  employed  a  German  military  mission  to 
reorganize  and  train  artillery  units. 

During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  military  had 
a  primarily  internal  security  function  and  was  involved  in  active 
hostilities  on  only  one  occasion,  a  brief  war  with  Guatemala  in  1906. 
A  number  of  Chilean  officers  participated  directly  in  El  Salvador's 
campaign  against  Guatemala,  forging  a  strong  link  between  their 
country  and  El  Salvador.  The  Chilean  military  attache,  Carlos 
Ibanez  de  Campo,  who  later  became  president  of  Chile,  personally 
led  a  legendary  charge  of  the  Salvadoran  cavalry  in  one  of  the  major 
battles,  at  Platanar. 

President  Manuel  Enrique  Araujo  (1911-13)  implemented  some 
army  reforms  that  had  a  permanent  effect  on  the  security  system. 
For  example,  he  reduced  its  police  functions.  He  also  helped  to 
professionalize  the  army  by  creating  a  general  staff,  an  army  educa- 
tional corps,  and  a  relatively  efficient  army  reserve  system.  In  1922 
El  Salvador  formed  the  Military  Aviation  Service  (Servicio  de 
Aviacion  Militar — SAM)  by  acquiring  five  Italian  bomber- 
reconnaissance  aircraft. 

Beginning  in  1929,  the  oligarchy  relied  increasingly  on  the  mili- 
tary to  suppress  a  series  of  major  peasant  rebellions  in  the  coffee- 
growing  areas  of  western  El  Salvador.  President  Arturo  Araujo 
(March-December  1931)  gave  his  vice  president  and  minister  of 
war,  General  Maximiliano  Hernandez  Martinez,  a  free  hand  to 
suppress  the  revolts.  At  the  same  time,  however,  Araujo  alienated 
the  military  by  slashing  its  budget  and  refusing  to  revise  its  pay 
procedures. 

The  Military  in  Power,  1931-84 

A  group  of  young  officers — angered  by  Araujo  and  concerned 
about  the  increasingly  organized  peasant  activism — overthrew  the 
democratically  elected  president  in  December  1931  and  promptly 
turned  over  power  to  General  Martinez.  The  cohesiveness  of  the 
regular  conscript-based  army  was  adversely  affected  by  the  coup, 
and  army  units  therefore  played  little  part  in  la  matanza  of  January 
1932,  which  was  attributed  to  the  security  forces  (see  The  Security 


200 


National  Security 


Forces,  this  ch.).  Although  the  scale  of  the  massacre  would  not  be 
repeated,  the  use  of  indiscriminate  violence  as  exemplified  by  la 
matanza  nonetheless  became  part  of  Salvadoran  military  legend  and 
was  invoked  by  right-wing  extremists  in  the  late  1970s  and  early 
1980s  as  a  model  for  dealing  with  leftists. 

By  mid- 1932  Martinez  was  in  complete  control  of  the  army,  the 
National  Police  (Policia  Nacional — PN),  and  the  National  Guard 
(Guardia  Nacional — GN).  During  his  rule  as  absolute  dictator 
(1932-44),  the  army  remained  subordinate  to  the  more  elite  secur- 
ity services  (the  PN  and  GN).  Under  Martinez's  system,  the  army 
answered  to  the  minister  of  war,  and  the  security  services  answered 
to  the  minister  of  government.  After  the  1944  coup,  the  minister 
of  war  assumed  authority  over  all  the  security  services,  as  well  as 
the  army. 

Beginning  with  the  Martinez  regime,  an  almost  unbroken  suc- 
cession of  military  governments  ruled  for  five  decades  (see  Repres- 
sion and  Reform  under  Military  Rule,  ch.  1).  On  December  14, 
1948,  a  group  of  army  majors  belonging  to  the  Military  Youth 
(Juventud  Militar)  carried  out  what  came  to  be  known  as  the  Revo- 
lution of  1948,  also  known  as  the  "majors'  coup."  The  young 
officers  formed  a  corporate-style  junta  and  forced  all  officers  above 
the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel  to  retire.  After  the  coup,  which  was 
more  concerned  with  establishing  order  than  implementing  reforms, 
the  military  established  itself  as  a  somewhat  more  independent  force 
in  politics  by  distancing  itself  from  the  oligarchy.  The  officers'  move- 
ment also  changed  the  army's  own  perception  of  its  role  in  society 
by  adopting  new  missions  to  uphold  national  law  and  safeguard 
the  country's  sovereignty.  Thereafter,  the  military  considered  it- 
self no  longer  merely  the  oligarchy's  private  army  but  rather  the 
guardian  of  the  people  and  the  constitution.  As  such,  it  saw  itself 
playing  a  legitimate  role  in  virtually  all  aspects  of  government.  It 
failed  totally,  however,  to  legitimize  this  role,  because  it  did  not 
challenge  the  oligarchy,  implement  reforms,  or  turn  the  control 
of  the  government  over  to  civilians.  Instead,  it  merely  changed  the 
pattern  of  military  control  of  the  political  process  by  reaching  a 
new  accommodation  with  the  oligarchy;  establishing  its  own  party, 
the  Revolutionary  Party  of  Democratic  Unification  (Partido  Revolu- 
cionario  de  Unificacion  Democratica — PRUD);  and  ensuring  that 
PRUD  candidates  took  power,  usually  through  fraudulent  elec- 
tions. The  military's  continuance  in  power  appeared  to  violate  the 
1950  constitution,  which  stipulated  that  the  armed  forces  were  to 
be  nonpolitical  and  obedient  to  the  government  in  power. 

By  the  mid-1960s,  another  major  shift  had  occurred  in  the  Sal- 
vadoran military's  perception  of  its  own  role  in  society  and  its  view 


201 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


of  civilian  involvement  in  the  security  system.  Beginning  in  1961, 
United  States  military  and  civilian  law  enforcement  advisers  had 
encouraged  the  Salvadoran  military,  not  entirely  successfully,  to 
abandon  the  traditional  concepts  of  military  professionalism  that 
had  guided  it  since  1941  and  to  adopt  some  elements  of  a  coun- 
terinsurgency  doctrine.  Whereas  in  the  1940s  and  1950s  the  United 
States  had  taught  Salvadoran  Army  officers  to  resist  civilian  at- 
tempts to  interfere  with  military  prerogatives,  counterinsurgency 
doctrine  in  the  1960s  encouraged  the  expansion  of  the  traditional 
military  role  to  include  nonmilitary  tasks,  such  as  civic  action 
projects,  and  the  establishment  of  semiautonomous,  politically 
oriented  paramilitary  organizations  (see  The  Security  Forces,  this 
ch.).  At  the  same  time,  a  reformist  Military  Youth  faction  in  the 
Salvadoran  military  led  by  Colonel  Adolfo  Arnoldo  Majano  Ramos 
also  became  increasingly  critical  of  the  old  authoritarian  model 
favored  by  the  military  traditionalists. 

The  surge  of  patriotic  fervor  aroused  by  the  1969  war  with  Hon- 
duras focused  a  new  public  attitude  of  respect  and  esteem  on  the 
Salvadoran  armed  forces,  especially  the  ground  forces,  which  per- 
formed well  during  the  brief  confrontation  (see  The  1 969  War  with 
Honduras,  ch.  1).  Salvadoran  troops,  supported  by  an  overwhelm- 
ing superiority  in  artillery,  penetrated  up  to  twenty-nine  kilometers 
into  Honduran  territory  during  the  five-day  conflict,  in  which  2,000 
to  4,000  soldiers  and  civilians  were  killed.  The  ill-equipped  Sal- 
vadoran Air  Force,  however,  was  no  match  for  the  Honduran  Air 
Force,  Central  America's  best.  Within  months  after  the  end  of 
hostilities,  therefore,  the  Salvadoran  Air  Force  began  to  acquire 
new  aircraft.  El  Salvador's  seventeen-year-old  navy,  not  having 
participated  in  the  war  with  Honduras,  benefited  little  from  the 
postwar  expansion  and  reequipment  of  the  Salvadoran  armed 
forces. 

In  the  mid-1970s,  as  left-wing  guerrilla  and  terrorist  activities 
escalated,  the  military  began  to  focus  more  on  internal  security  than 
on  political  manipulation.  Consequently,  elements  of  the  military 
adopted  the  doctrine  of  national  security,  emphasizing  anticom- 
munism,  state  autonomy,  and  limits  on  the  exercise  of  civil  liber- 
ties through  heavy  reliance  on  the  state  of  siege  and  other  security 
decree  powers.  Civil-military  relations  changed  accordingly.  In  an 
attempt  to  reassert  its  control  and  protect  its  own  institutional  in- 
tegrity from  leftist  subversion  and  rightist  attempts  to  take  power, 
the  military  tried  to  increase  the  distance  between  itself  and  civil 
society.  The  oligarchy  encouraged  the  government's  efforts  to 
reinstate  policies  that  characterized  the  traditional  authoritarian 
model. 


202 


National  Security 


In  1979  a  group  of  junior  and  field-grade  military  officers  staged 
a  successful  coup  and  ousted  the  regime  of  General  Romero.  These 
officers  quickly  forced  sixty  senior  officers  to  retire  and  tempora- 
rily exiled  all  of  the  generals  and  most  of  the  colonels.  Recogniz- 
ing the  need  for  social,  political,  and  economic  reforms,  they  formed 
the  left-of-center,  civilian-military  Revolutionary  Governing  Junta 
(Junta  Revolucionaria  de  Gobierno — JRG),  which  included  two 
army  officers:  Colonel  Jaime  Abdul  Gutierrez  and  Colonel  Majano. 
The  JRG  then  formed  a  largely  civilian  cabinet  that  included,  as 
defense  minister,  Colonel  Guillermo  Garcia,  a  participant  in  the 
coup.  The  junior  and  field-grade  officers  who  constituted  the  Mili- 
tary Youth  also  created  the  Permanent  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces 
(Consejo  Permanente  de  las  Fuerzas  Armadas — Copefa)  to  ensure 
that  the  proclaimed  objectives  of  the  reformist  coup  were  not  sub- 
verted and  to  serve  as  a  policy  consultative  body  for  officers.  The 
younger  Copefa  members  distrusted  the  older  commanders — 
particularly  Garcia  and  his  deputy,  Colonel  Nicolas  Carranza — 
whom  they  viewed  as  corrupt,  reactionary,  and  more  interested 
in  the  political  loyalty  of  key  military  officers  than  their  military 
competence.  Nevertheless,  it  soon  became  apparent  that  the  real 
power  lay  in  the  military  High  Command  (Alto  Mando),  not  in  the 
governing  Civil-Military  Directorate  (Directorio  Cfvico-Militar). 
Garcia  and  the  High  Command  consolidated  power  by  purging 
the  young  reformist  officers  from  Copefa  on  December  18,  1979, 
and  replacing  them  with  old-guard  loyalists.  After  another  junta 
reorganization  in  December  1980,  which  resulted  in  Majano 's  exile, 
Gutierrez  retained  sole  command  of  the  armed  forces,  and  junta 
member  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  Fuentes  became  provisional  presi- 
dent. 

Before  the  1982  election  for  the  Constituent  Assembly  (see  Glos- 
sary), Defense  Minister  Garcia  issued  a  public  order  requiring  the 
military  to  defend  the  voting  process.  Thus,  in  an  important  break 
with  the  past,  the  military  protected  rather  than  manipulated  an 
election.  The  High  Command  reportedly  used  its  influence  to  pre- 
vent the  right-wing  Nationalist  Republican  Alliance  (Alianza 
Republicana  Nacionalista — Arena)  from  excluding  the  Christian 
Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC)  from  the 
provisional  government  headed  by  Alvaro  Magafia  Borja,  a  polit- 
ical centrist,  who  succeeded  Duarte  as  interim  president.  Neverthe- 
less, the  prospect  of  civilian  government  disturbed  many  in  the 
military,  including  senior  army  officers.  Although  Garcia  forestalled 
a  coup  in  early  November  1982  by  transferring  or  dismissing  dis- 
sident senior  army  officers,  criticism  of  him  among  the  military 
hierarchy  eventually  turned  into  open  rebellion. 


203 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Garcia' s  most  vocal  military  critic  was  Lieutenant  Colonel 
Sigifredo  Ochoa  Perez,  military  commander  of  Cabanas  Depart- 
ment. On  January  6,  1983,  a  day  after  being  ordered  by  Garcia 
to  leave  his  command  to  serve  as  military  attache  in  Uruguay, 
Ochoa  began  a  six-day  mutiny,  placing  his  troops  on  alert.  Ochoa 
accused  Garcia  of  corruption  and  called  for  his  resignation.  Part 
of  the  conflict  between  Ochoa  and  Garcia  stemmed  from  differ- 
ences over  counterinsurgency  strategy.  Ochoa  and  his  supporters 
advocated  a  more  professional  approach,  emphasizing  aggressive, 
small-unit  actions  and  patrolling  combined  with  political  pacifica- 
tion (civic  action  projects).  In  response,  the  defense  minister  re- 
quired all  senior  officers  to  sign  a  document  condemning  Ochoa' s 
action  as  a  violation  of  "the  principles  of  discipline  and  obedience 
which  men  of  the  armed  forces  must  observe  at  all  times. ' '  Twenty- 
eight  senior  officers  signed.  Ochoa  ended  his  rebellion  after  six  days 
and  accepted  the  president's  offer  of  an  assistant  defense  attache 
post  in  Washington.  Under  increasing  pressure  from  within  the 
officer  corps,  Garcia  finally  resigned  on  April  18,  1983,  and  was 
succeeded  by  General  Carlos  Eugenio  Vides  Casanova,  the  GN 
director  general  since  October  1979.  Ochoa  eventually  resigned 
from  the  army  in  June  1987,  in  part  to  protest  what  he  viewed  as 
interference  in  military  affairs  by  the  Duarte  government  and  the 
United  States  but  also  to  join  Arena  and  serve  as  a  deputy  (diputado) 
in  the  Legislative  Assembly. 

In  a  major  military  reorganization  in  November  1983,  Vides, 
the  new  minister  of  defense  and  public  security,  reassigned  many 
commanders  and  reorganized  the  army  in  an  effort  to  enhance 
its  professionalism;  his  action  also  rendered  the  army's  leadership 
more  politically  conservative.  Until  the  reorganization,  twenty-six 
separate  commands  had  reported  directly  to  the  defense  minister. 
The  appointment  of  six  brigade  commanders  reduced  the  number 
of  subordinate  commands  significantiy.  One  of  Vides 's  key  appoint- 
ments was  that  of  Colonel  Adolfo  Onecffero  Blandon  Mejia  as  army 
chief  of  staff.  By  the  time  the  elected  Constituent  Assembly  com- 
pleted the  new  Constitution  in  late  1983,  a  military  code  of  con- 
duct had  also  been  drafted  (see  Military  Justice,  this  ch.). 

The  inauguration  of  Duarte  as  president  on  June  1,  1984,  ushered 
in  a  new  era  of  elected  civilian  rule.  On  taking  office,  Duarte 
promoted  Blandon  to  brigadier  general  and  made  him  chief  of  staff 
of  the  Joint  General  Staff  (Estado  Mayor  Conjunto — EMC). 

The  Military  under  Democratic  Rule,  1984-88 

In  the  1984-88  period,  the  military  largely  adhered  to  its  new 
constitutional  obligations  to  remain  apolitical  and  obedient  to 


204 


Army  personnel  in  the  field 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

civilian  rule  (see  Mission  and  Organization,  this  ch.).  It  made  no 
effort  to  influence  the  outcome  of  the  elections  that  brought  Duarte 
and  the  Legislative  Assembly  into  office.  The  elected  leadership 
determined  the  country's  domestic  and  foreign  policy,  generally 
without  discernible  interference  by  the  military.  President  Duarte 
normally  made  the  basic  decisions  on  how  to  deal  with  the  guerril- 
las, and  he  set  the  rules  of  engagement,  which  the  military  obeyed. 
Military  leaders  spurned  attempts  by  antidemocratic  right-wing 
extremists  to  incite  coups,  and  by  late  1988  no  military  coup  at- 
tempt had  been  made.  Nevertheless,  there  were  occasions  when 
civil-military  relations  were  seriously  strained.  For  example,  in  Oc- 
tober 1985  a  group  of  army  officers  accused  Duarte  of  endanger- 
ing the  national  security  by  allowing  126  rebels  to  go  free  in 
exchange  for  the  release  of  his  kidnapped  daughter.  Although  the 
officers  asked  the  High  Command  to  consider  replacing  the  presi- 
dent, a  day-long  debate  in  that  body  defused  the  dissent. 

The  military  reportedly  also  still  set  its  own  rules  of  conduct  much 
of  the  time,  despite  Duarte 's  efforts  to  strengthen  civilian  control. 
For  example,  the  military  resisted  civilian  efforts  to  force  it  to  make 
a  public  accounting  of  the  involvement  of  some  officers  in  a 
multimillion-dollar  kidnapping  ring,  a  corrupt  arms  deal,  and  the 
murder  of  several  United  States  citizens.  In  addition,  some  army 
officers  with  records  of  human  rights  abuses  continued  to  be 


205 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


promoted.  Moreover,  with  the  exceptions  of  Vides  and  Blandon, 
who  became  identified  with  Duarte  and  his  administration,  the  mili- 
tary kept  its  distance  from  the  PDC  government  and  cultivated 
its  own  ties  with  political  parties,  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  and 
business  and  labor  groups. 

Although  the  armed  forces  remained  a  powerful  institution,  exert- 
ing a  strong,  behind-the-scenes  influence  on  national  security  affairs 
during  the  Duarte  administration,  usually  through  the  High  Com- 
mand, the  military's  direct  political  involvement  decreased.  Ob- 
servers cited  three  reasons  why  a  consensus  toward  a  professional, 
apolitical  military  institution  gradually  developed.  First  and  fore- 
most, the  military  understood  that  its  submission  to  civilian  author- 
ity was  essential  for  obtaining  United  States  support  to  carry  out 
its  primary  national  security  mission,  namely  counterinsurgency. 
Second,  a  more  apolitical  stance  by  the  military  was  necessary  if 
the  country  wished  to  end  its  international  isolation  and  improve 
economic,  diplomatic,  and  perhaps  even  military  cooperation  with 
West  European  and  Latin  American  democracies.  And  third,  most 
military  leaders  understood  that  the  political  appeal  of  the  insur- 
gency could  best  be  neutralized  by  setting  up  representative  civilian 
institutions  and  the  infrastructure  of  a  democratic  society,  even 
though  these  were  historically  alien  to  the  country.  Thus,  the  mili- 
tary's role  in  Salvadoran  political  life  changed  dramatically  dur- 
ing the  Duarte  administration.  The  military  publicly  supported  the 
democratic  process  and  remained  neutral  in  it;  military  leaders 
stated  repeatedly  that  civilian  officials  were  responsible  for  deter- 
mining El  Salvador's  political,  economic,  social,  and  foreign  poli- 
cies. 

In  1987  the  Duarte  administration's  relations  with  the  military 
were  strained,  however,  by  the  government's  long-range  plans  to 
build  up  a  police  force  independent  of  the  army,  by  the  release  of 
guerrilla  prisoners,  and  by  a  brief  unilateral  cease-fire  declared  by 
the  president  in  order  to  comply  with  the  Central  American  Peace 
Agreement  that  Duarte  signed  on  behalf  of  El  Salvador  on  Au- 
gust 7,  1987  (see  The  Crisis  in  Central  America,  ch.  4).  Although 
the  High  Command  approved  peace  talks  with  the  guerrillas  in 
September  1987,  the  military's  public  support  for  the  dialogue 
seemed  less  than  enthusiastic. 

Two  events  in  late  November  1987  further  strained  civil-military 
relations.  One  was  the  temporary  return  from  exile  of  two  leaders 
of  the  political  front  of  the  Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation 
Front  (Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de  Liberacion  Nacional — FMLN), 
the  Revolutionary  Democratic  Front  (Frente  Democratico  Revolu- 
cionario — FDR).  Another  was  Duarte 's  release  of  new  evidence 


206 


National  Security 


purportedly  linking  Roberto  D'Aubuisson  Arrieta,  the  Arena 
leader,  with  the  1980  murder  of  Archbishop  Oscar  Arnulfo  Romero 
y  Galdamez.  In  response  to  these  two  events,  Salvadoran  right- 
wing  political  leaders,  including  D'Aubuisson  and  Ochoa,  began 
appealing  for  "patriotic  action"  by  their  traditional  ally,  the  army. 
Ochoa  stressed  the  duty  of  the  military  commanders  in  the  field 
to  defend  El  Salvador  from  both  the  "terrorists"  and  the  Chris- 
tian democratic  government.  These  rightist  leaders  also  attempted 
to  appeal  to  the  nationalism  of  army  officers  who  resented  the 
United  States  embassy's  influence  over  their  actions.  One  target 
of  the  rightists  was  Colonel  Carlos  Reynaldo  Lopez  Nuila,  a  senior 
army  officer  and  the  PN  director  general.  Lopez  Nuila  had  strongly 
supported  Duarte,  had  tried  to  loosen  the  army's  control  over  police 
forces  in  San  Salvador,  and  had  actively  investigated  human  rights 
abuses  and  other  crimes  by  some  senior  army  officers. 

In  mid- 1988  the  military,  like  the  government,  appeared  to  be 
in  a  transitional  period.  Reportedly  disenchanted  with  the  Chris- 
tian democratic  government  over  its  handling  of  the  economy  and 
its  efforts  at  dialogue  with  the  guerrillas,  and  uneasy  over  the  poten- 
tial investigation  of  military  officers  accused  of  crimes,  the  mili- 
tary appeared  receptive  to  the  assumption  of  power  by  the  right 
and  by  Arena.  The  military  was  particularly  worried  that  after  the 
1989  presidential  election  the  country  would  still  have  a  weak  civilian 
government.  By  mid- 1988  Lieutenant  Colonel  Rene  Emilio  Ponce 
Torres,  commander  of  the  army's  First  Infantry  Brigade  in  eastern 
San  Miguel  Department,  had  become  publicly  critical  of  civilians, 
saying  bureaucratic  infighting  and  the  political  parties'  inability 
to  resolve  their  differences  were  weakening  the  war  effort.  Ponce's 
renewed  efforts  to  win  over  citizens  in  zones  of  conflict  worried 
some  in  the  civilian  government,  who  felt  that  the  powerful,  more 
cohesive  military  was  usurping  their  functions. 

The  High  Command  held  a  series  of  meetings  to  define  its  posi- 
tion and  also  met  with  politicians  to  discuss  the  electoral  dispute 
that  delayed  the  convening  of  the  Legislative  Assembly  elected  in 
March  1988.  Defense  Minister  Vides  publicly  dismissed  the  pos- 
sibility that  a  coup  would  result  from  the  political  crisis  that  had 
developed  by  June  1988,  when  Duarte  left  the  country  to  receive 
medical  treatment  for  what  was  reported  to  be  terminal  cancer. 
Meanwhile,  members  of  the  military  academy's  class  of  1966  (the 
so-called  tandona,  or  big  class),  led  by  Colonel  Ponce,  were  begin- 
ning to  move  into  positions  of  power  (see  Officer  Corps  Dynam- 
ics, this  ch.).  By  mid-1988,  after  five  years  on  the  job,  General 
Vides  and  General  Blandon  appeared  to  be  losing  influence  as 
younger,  more  aggressive  officers,  some  of  whose  attitudes  toward 


207 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

the  democratic  process  were  unclear,  anticipated  the  generals'  ap- 
proaching retirement. 

The  Armed  Forces 
Mission  and  Organization 

Under  Articles  211  and  212  of  the  1983  Constitution,  the  army's 
missions  and  those  of  the  armed  forces  in  general  are  to  defend 
the  national  territory  and  sovereignty;  to  maintain  the  public  peace, 
tranquillity,  and  security;  and  to  support  democracy.  Article  212 
describes  the  armed  forces  more  specifically  as  a  fundamental 
institution  for  national  security,  of  a  permanent  character,  es- 
sentially apolitical,  obedient  to  established  civilian  authority,  and 
nondeliberative.  It  also  charges  the  military  with  enforcing  the 
no-reelection  provision  for  the  country's  president,  guaranteeing 
freedom  of  suffrage,  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights,  and  col- 
laborating with  the  agencies  of  the  executive  branch  in  promoting 
national  development.  In  effect,  the  1983  Constitution  sought  to 
change  dramatically  the  political  role  of  the  military.  Whereas  mili- 
tary officers  routinely  served  as  president  of  the  republic  under  the 
old  constitutions,  the  1983  Constitution  does  not  permit  any  active- 
duty  military  officer  to  be  president.  Military  personnel  must  resign 
from  the  service  three  years  before  the  next  presidential  inaugura- 
tion date  in  order  to  be  eligible  to  run  for  that  office. 

Both  the  military  organic  law  and  Article  157  of  the  Constitution 
name  the  president  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces, 
consisting  of  the  army,  air  force,  navy,  and  active  reserve  (see 
fig.  9).  Article  168  empowers  the  president  to  organize  and  main- 
tain the  armed  forces  and  confer  military  ranks  in  accordance  with 
the  law.  The  minister  of  defense  and  public  security  is  in  the  chain 
of  command  and  performs  the  president's  command  functions  on 
a  day-to-day  basis.  A  deputy  minister  of  defense  and  public  secur- 
ity fulfills  the  purely  administrative  role  assigned  to  the  Ministry 
of  Defense  and  Public  Security.  The  EMC  chief  is  the  senior  serv- 
ing officer  and  also  army  commander  and  has  operational  control 
over  the  navy  and  air  force  chiefs.  The  vice  minister  of  defense  and 
public  security  oversees  the  Public  Security  Forces  Joint  Staff  of  the 
three  security  forces:  the  GN,  PN,  and  the  Treasury  Police  (Policfa 
de  Hacienda — PH),  which  together  included  some  12,600  person- 
nel among  their  ranks  in  1988.  The  regular  armed  forces  (army, 
air  force,  and  navy)  totaled  about  47,000  active  members  in  1988. 

Colonel  Juan  Orlando  Zepeda  stated  in  a  published  interview 
in  1987  that  the  Salvadoran  armed  forces  had  two  national-level 


208 


National  Security 


intelligence  organizations:  the  National  Directorate  of  Intelligence 
(Direccion  Nacional  de  Inteligencia — DNI)  under  the  Ministry  of 
Defense  and  Public  Security;  and  the  EMC's  C-2,  which  Colonel 
Zepeda  headed.  Although  the  DNI  was  charged  with  providing 
strategic,  political,  and  national  intelligence,  the  demands  of  the 
war  and  a  lack  of  training  compelled  it  to  develop  mainly  military 
operational  intelligence  at  the  strategic  and  tactical  levels,  duplicat- 
ing the  C-2's  principal  mission.  The  C-2  also  used  intelligence 
reports  from  agencies  at  the  brigade  and  military  unit  levels. 

Defense  Budget 

El  Salvador's  defense  budgets  traditionally  were  relatively 
modest,  and  the  percentage  of  the  national  income  devoted  to  the 
armed  forces  generally  was  conservative.  Military  expenditures  in 
the  post-World  War  II  period  to  1970  ranged  from  9  to  1 1  percent 
of  the  national  budget.  The  demands  of  counterinsurgency  resulted, 
however,  in  large  increases  in  the  country's  defense  spending  in 
the  1980s.  The  defense  budget,  which  included  the  "public  secur- 
ity sector,"  increased  substantially  from  fiscal  year  (FY — see  Glos- 
sary) 1982,  when  it  totalled  US$139  million,  to  FY  1988,  when 
it  reached  US$204  million  (see  Foreign  Military  Influence  and 
Assistance,  this  ch.).  In  1986  army  expenditures  accounted  for  71 
percent  of  the  total  defense  budget;  air  force,  23  percent;  and  navy, 
4  percent.  The  1986  defense  budget  constituted  4.7  percent  of  the 
gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary).  By  the  late  1980s, 
defense  expenditures  accounted  for  25  percent  of  the  national 
budget. 

Military  Service 

Under  Article  215  of  the  Constitution,  military  service  for  a  mini- 
mum of  two  years  is  obligatory  for  all  able-bodied  male  citizens 
between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  thirty,  although  in  practice  youth 
from  wealthy  families  avoided  military  service.  In  1988  El  Salvador 
had  a  manpower  pool  of  807,000  males  fit  for  military  service,  and 
approximately  65,000  Salvadoran  males  reached  military  age  (eigh- 
teen) annually.  Prior  to  the  guerrilla  conflict  and  its  attendant  in- 
crease in  military  personnel,  conscription  was  resorted  to  only 
rarely,  and  only  one  year  of  service  was  required.  The  services  drew 
mainly  young  rural  men  whose  lack  of  employment  prospects  made 
even  low-paying,  high-risk  military  service  attractive.  After  1979, 
however,  the  armed  forces  relied  heavily  on  the  draft.  Conscripts 
(males  only)  were  required  initially  to  serve  eighteen  months  at 
the  age  of  eighteen  or  nineteen,  but  the  period  was  soon  increased 
to  twenty-four  months.  On  completion  of  their  service,  conscripts 


209 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


PRESIDENT 


MINISTER  OF  DEFENSE 
AND  PUBLIC  SECURITY 


MINISTER  OF  DEFENSE 
AND  PUBLIC  SECURITY 


VICE  MINISTER 
OF  DEFENSE 


PUBLIC  SECURITY 
FORCES  JOINT  STAFF 


JOINT  GENERAL  STAFF 
(EMC)4 


NATIONAL 
POLICE 
(PN)1 


TREASURY 
POLICE 
(PH)2 


NATIONAL 
GUARD 

(GN)3 


ARMY 


AIR  FORCE 


NAVY 


1 

PN  .. 

POLICIA  NACIONAL 

2 

PH  .. 

POLICIA  DE  HACIENDA 

3 

GN  .. 

GUARDIA  NACIONAL 

4 

EMC 

ESTADO  MAYOR  CONJUNTO 

Figure  9.  Armed  Forces  Chain  of  Command,  1988 


reverted  to  ''active  reserve"  status  until  the  age  of  thirty,  or  they 
could  choose  to  remain  for  a  longer  period  of  time  at  a  higher  salary. 
The  army,  however,  limited  reenlistment  to  20  percent  because 
a  draftee  was  paid  only  US$80  per  month,  as  compared  with 
US$300  a  month  for  a  soldier  who  had  completed  two  two-year 
tours.  From  the  ages  of  thirty  to  sixty,  reservists  were  assigned  to 
the  second-line  Territorial  Service,  a  part-time,  volunteer  security 
force  that  mainly  provided  reserve  manpower  for  the  army. 

Recruitment  to  the  regular  armed  forces  was  carried  out  nation- 
ally but  was  decentralized  down  to  the  township  level.  Conscript 
classes  were  called  up  biannually,  and  each  individual  reported  to 
the  military  unit  nearest  his  home.  Local  boards — consisting  of 
officers,  civilian  officials,  and  medical  personnel — examined  pro- 
spective draftees  and  ruled  on  their  qualifications  and  on  requests 


210 


National  Security 


for  exemption  or  deferment.  Each  township  received  a  quota  of 
the  vacancies  in  the  regular  service  and  filled  them  first  with  volun- 
teers. After  initial  examinations,  the  local  boards  submitted  a  list 
of  qualified  volunteers  to  the  departmental  commander.  Selections 
were  made  by  lottery,  in  accordance  with  the  choice  of  service  in- 
dicated. Accepted  candidates  then  reported  to  their  new  stations 
in  the  departmental  regiment. 

The  army  also  frequently  resorted  to  the  impressment  of  young 
men  into  service,  particularly  in  urban  areas,  in  order  to  fulfill  its 
manpower  quotas.  In  the  late  1980s,  according  to  the  New  York 
Times,  the  armed  forces  were  forcibly  enlisting  12,000  youths  a  year. 
Those  most  affected  by  this  press-gang  system  were  usually  from 
poor  and  rural  families;  often  they  were  as  young  as  fourteen.  The 
military  almost  never  forcibly  recruited  youths  in  wealthy  neigh- 
borhoods. If  recruited,  they  could  generally  buy  their  way  out  of 
the  service  with  help  from  their  families. 

Historically,  most  women  in  the  Salvadoran  military  served  as 
nurses  or  were  relegated  to  secretarial  or  domestic  duties,  such  as 
cooking.  In  1985  most  of  the  2,000  military  nurses  worked  at  the 
Military  Hospital  in  San  Salvador;  few  were  assigned  to  field  duty. 
At  that  time,  the  armed  forces  had  six  female  officers,  all  of  whom 
had  received  their  commissions  because  of  their  foreign  training. 
The  highest  ranking  nurse  was  a  captain,  but  none  held  any  posi- 
tion in  a  chain  of  command. 

In  the  early  1980s,  thanks  mainly  to  innovative  commanders  in 
the  First  Infantry  Brigade  in  eastern  El  Salvador,  the  Ministry  of 
Defense  and  Public  Security  allowed  young  women  volunteers  to 
begin  basic  combat  training  courses  in  San  Miguel  and  Morazan 
departments.  The  initial  seventy  women  recruits  were  organized 
into  two  all- women  combat  platoons.  Most  of  the  women  recruits 
reportedly  had  either  been  displaced  by  the  war  or  had  had  rela- 
tives kidnapped  or  murdered  by  the  guerrillas.  Although  their  basic 
training  reportedly  was  rigorous  and  similar  to  that  given  male 
recruits,  the  women  were  not  observed  to  be  subjected  to  the  same 
physical  abuse.  Those  who  successfully  completed  combat  train- 
ing qualified  for  the  same  pay  as  male  privates,  c450  (for  value 
of  the  colon — see  Glossary)  a  month,  or  about  US$1 12.  As  of  1985, 
members  of  the  two  women's  platoons  reportedly  were  being  in- 
tegrated as  replacements  in  previously  all-male  units. 

Until  the  1920s,  officers  were  selected  from  the  country's  promi- 
nent families  and  constituted  an  elite  caste.  In  time,  the  selection 
process  became  increasingly  egalitarian,  however,  and  by  1970  the 
officer  corps  was  composed  mostly  of  mestizos  from  farm  commu- 
nities. The  officers  came  from  segments  of  the  population  educated 


211 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


enough  to  qualify  for  the  demanding  officer  training.  All  officers 
were  career  regulars,  except  for  a  small  number  of  professional 
specialists,  such  as  doctors. 

In  comparison  with  equivalent  civilian  standards,  the  conditions 
under  which  military  personnel  served  were  generally  quite  good. 
Officers,  but  not  enlisted  personnel,  had  separate  family  accom- 
modations. Married  noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs)  received 
extra  family  allowances  that  were  sufficient  to  enable  them  to  pro- 
cure local  housing.  Quarters,  food,  and  pay  were  generally  con- 
siderably better  than  the  average  campesino  could  find  outside  the 
service.  Other  benefits  and  advantages  included  medical  care, 
accrued  leave,  retirement  pay,  and  survivor  benefits,  although  the 
latter  were  not  always  guaranteed.  Special  allowances  were  also 
available  based  on  family  size  and  the  location  of  one's  duty  sta- 
tion; extra  pay  also  was  authorized  for  specialists  and  airborne  and 
flight  personnel.  Retirement  for  disability,  age,  or  length  of  ser- 
vice was  either  statutory  or  granted  on  request.  Liberal  leave  poli- 
cies allowed  all  ranks  to  accrue  thirty  days  a  year;  there  also  were 
special  provisions  for  emergency  situations. 

Ranks,  Uniforms,  and  Insignia 

The  rank  structure  of  the  armed  forces  followed  traditional  lines 
and  conformed  to  the  pattern  of  the  United  States  services,  with 
minor  variations  reflecting  the  disparity  in  force  levels.  Army  and 
air  force  ranks  were  identical,  and  the  navy  used  conventional  naval 
designations,  although  naval  personnel  generally  were  addressed 
by  their  equivalent  army  ranks.  The  only  general  officer  rank  was 
equivalent  to  a  United  States  brigadier  general. 

Insignia  of  rank  conformed  to  the  designs  adopted  in  1968  by 
the  Central  American  Defense  Council  (Consejo  de  Defensa 
Centroamericano — Condeca).  Army  and  air  force  officer  insignia 
were  worn  on  shoulder  straps  and  consisted  of  silver-colored  stars 
for  company-grade  officers  (second  lieutenant,  lieutenant,  and  cap- 
tain), gold-colored  stars  for  field-grade  officers  (major,  lieutenant 
colonel,  and  colonel),  and  a  laurel  leaf  for  brigadier  general.  Naval 
officers  displayed  gold-colored  metallic  braid  insignia  of  rank  at 
the  cuff  or  on  shoulderboards,  depending  on  the  type  of  uniform 
worn.  NCOs  wore  chevrons  of  gold  braid  or  colored  cloth.  The 
grades  of  all  enlisted  personnel  were  indicated  by  cloth  chevrons 
(gold-colored  for  army  and  air  force  and  black  for  navy),  worn  on 
either  the  uniform  coat  or  the  shirt  sleeves  (see  fig.  10;  fig.  11). 

Both  army  and  air  force  wore  dark-blue  dress  uniforms,  whereas 
the  navy  wore  traditional  navy  blue  garb  but  donned  standard 
whites  for  the  hot-weather  months.  The  army's  service  uniform 


212 


National  Security 


consisted  of  a  khaki  shirt  and  beige  trousers,  with  an  overseas-type 
garrison  cap.  The  air  force's  service  uniform  differed  from  the 
army's  only  in  its  light-blue  color,  and  the  navy  used  a  khaki  ser- 
vice uniform.  Army  and  air  force  officers  wore  service  uniforms 
in  their  respective  colors.  The  army's  basic  garrison  uniform  con- 
sisted of  olive-green  shirt,  trousers,  and  cap  and  a  belt,  socks,  and 
shoes,  all  in  black.  The  standard  uniform  became  the  combat  uni- 
form with  the  addition  of  short  leggings,  combat  boots,  a  helmet, 
and  field  equipment.  The  air  force's  garrison  uniform  again  differed 
from  that  of  the  army  only  in  its  blue  color.  Dress  and  service  uni- 
forms for  female  personnel  were  patterned  after  those  for  male  per- 
sonnel, but  with  skirts  instead  of  trousers. 

Capabilities 

The  Army 

By  far  the  dominant  service  in  size  and  importance,  the  Salva- 
doran  Army  in  1988  had  a  total  strength  of  43,000  members,  in- 
cluding conscripts.  For  territorial  control,  it  divided  the  country 
into  six  military  zones  and  fourteen  subordinate  military  regions. 
The  principal  combat  units  consisted  of  twenty-two  medium  and 
fourteen  light  Antiterrorist  Infantry  Battalions  (Batallones  de 
Infanteria  Antiterrorista — BIATs)  organized  into  six  infantry 
brigades,  nine  cadre  infantry  regiments  (up  to  forty  battalions), 
one  mechanized  cavalry  regiment  (two  battalions),  one  artillery 
brigade  (three  battalions),  one  engineer  battalion,  six  independent 
immediate-reaction  counterinsurgency  battalions  (1,100  to  1,400 
men),  and  seven  detachments  (destacamentos).  The  army  also  had 
one  paratrooper  battalion  and  one  antiaircraft  artillery  battalion 
that  were  under  air  force  control.  The  usual  service  units — such 
as  medical,  military  police,  and  ordnance — supported  the  combat 
forces.  Each  brigade  also  had  a  long-range  reconnaissance  patrol 
for  small-unit  reconnaissance  and  combat  patrolling.  Army  equip- 
ment in  the  late  1980s  included  light  tanks,  armored  personnel 
carriers,  howitzers,  mortars,  and  recoilless  rifles  (see  table  7, 
Appendix). 

Military  Detachment  Number  Four  (Destacamento  Militar 
Numero  Cuatro-DM4),  which  was  responsible  for  security  in 
Morazan  Department,  typified  the  army's  command  organization. 
In  1987  DM4  consisted  of  four  battalions,  each  of  which  was  or- 
ganized into  four  companies.  A  company  had  four  platoons — 
actually  called  sections  {secciones) — of  about  thirty-four  members 
each.  Its  zone  of  responsibility  was  divided  among  its  four  platoons, 
each  of  which  contained  two  patrols  (patrullas).  The  patrols  operated 


213 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


214 


National  Security 


215 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

independently,  although  two  or  more  of  the  companies  often  coop- 
erated in  an  operation. 

The  Air  Force 

In  1988  the  Salvadoran  Air  Force  had  over  2,000  personnel,  in- 
cluding an  air  defense  unit,  a  security  group,  and  some  conscripts. 
The  antiaircraft  artillery  battalion  was  equipped  with  twenty-four 
Yugoslav-made  M-55  20mm  guns  and  four  self-propelled  guns  and 
was  staffed  with  army  personnel.  From  the  mid-1970s  to  the  late 
1980s,  the  air  force  had  acquired  aircraft  from  Israel  (French-made), 
France,  Brazil,  and  the  United  States.  Although  the  air  force 
suffered  a  major  setback  on  January  27,  1982,  when  guerrillas  at- 
tacked Ilopango  Air  Base  outside  San  Salvador  and  destroyed  75 
percent  of  the  air  force's  inventory,  the  United  States  delivered 
replacement  aircraft  within  weeks.  With  additional  United  States 
assistance,  the  air  force  built  up  quickly  in  1985  and  by  late  1986 
had  a  large  helicopter  force  and  a  variety  of  other  aircraft  (see  table 
8,  Appendix).  Attrition  continued  to  be  high  in  the  late  1980s,  with 
a  number  of  helicopters  and  other  aircraft  downed  by  guerrilla  forces 
or  mechanical  failure. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Salvadoran  Air  Force  was  organized  into 
the  Military  Aviation  School  (Escuela  de  Aviacion  Militar — EAM) 
and  five  squadrons:  the  Hunter  Squadron  (Escuadrilla  de  Caza), 
based  in  San  Miguel;  the  Hunter  Bomber  Squadron  (Escuadrilla 
de  Caza  Bombardeo),  based  at  Ilopango  Air  Base;  the  Attack  Squa- 
dron (Escuadrilla  de  Ataque)  and  the  Transport  Squadron 
(Escuadrilla  de  Transporte),  also  based  at  Ilopango;  and  the  growing 
Helicopter  Squadron  (Escuadrilla  de  Helicoptero),  with  aircraft 
based  at  both  Ilopango  and  San  Miguel. 

The  Navy 

In  1988  the  Salvadoran  Navy,  with  at  least  1,300  members, 
included  the  600-man  Marine  Infantry  Battalion  (Batallon  de 
Infanteria  de  Marina — BIM),  a  330-man  commando  unit,  and 
some  conscripts.  The  principal  naval  base  was  located  at  La  Union. 
A  naval  school  was  located  at  Army  Headquarters  in  San  Salvador. 
In  the  late  1980s,  the  navy  had  acquired  thirty  patrol  craft  (see 
table  9,  Appendix). 

Revived  in  1952,  after  a  lapse  of  more  than  forty  years  without 
any  naval  vessels,  the  new  navy  assumed  the  functions  of  the  es- 
tablished coast  guard  and  expanded  them  to  include  coastal  patrol 
and  fishery  protection.  The  navy  also  absorbed  patrol  craft  from 
the  coast  guard;  these  craft,  principally  British  vessels,  were  decom- 
missioned by  1981  and  replaced  by  United  States-built  boats. 


216 


National  Security 


The  Naval  Commandos  force  was  established  in  August  1982 
as  a  sixty-man  unit  intended  to  improve  response  to  guerrilla  oper- 
ations in  coastal  areas.  By  mid- 1985  the  force  numbered  330  men, 
among  them  12  frogmen,  90  base  security  troops,  and  110  men 
who  regularly  handled  the  weapons  aboard  their  high-speed  patrol 
boats.  The  Naval  Commandos  prowled  mangroves,  coconut  forests, 
and  beaches  in  eight-  to  fifteen-man  teams,  ambushing  guerrilla 
columns  and  raiding  rebel  encampments. 

Civic  Action 

The  involvement  of  the  armed  forces  in  civic  action  projects  began 
in  the  mid-1960s.  A  hierarchy  of  government  officials  at  the  highest 
levels  supervised  the  national  civic  action  program.  The  ranking 
official,  the  director  of  civic  action,  was  attached  to  the  Ministry 
of  Defense  and  Public  Security,  directly  under  the  minister.  A  com- 
mittee composed  of  the  ministers  of  defense  and  public  security, 
agriculture  and  livestock,  public  health  and  social  services,  educa- 
tion, and  public  works  served  as  an  advisory  group  for  the  direc- 
tor. Regional  committees  supervised  the  various  projects  assigned 
to  their  localities.  These  national  and  regional  committees  prepared 
programs  annually,  with  the  national  group  deciding  on  the  allo- 
cation of  tasks,  resources,  and  priorities.  The  army's  engineer  bat- 
talion generally  supervised  construction  and  public  works  projects. 
Other  ministries  represented  on  the  national  committee  monitored 
literacy,  health,  and  welfare  activities. 

Civic  action  programs  had  a  significant  impact  on  the  economy 
and  society.  The  army's  civic  action  program  was  largely  respon- 
sible for  the  country's  good  road  system  (see  Transportation,  ch.  3). 
Members  of  the  military  not  only  maintained  and  repaired  roads 
but  also  built  new  ones,  often  in  difficult  terrain.  Although  high- 
way maintenance  was  one  of  their  primary  activities,  the  army  en- 
gineers also  assisted  in  public  works  projects  ranging  from  bridges 
to  earthworks,  airfields,  and  sewers.  A  particularly  important  facet 
of  the  civic  action  program  was  the  literacy  campaign.  The  army 
operated  literacy  centers  for  the  public  in  rural  communities 
throughout  the  country,  as  well  as  for  recruits  at  military  posts. 
The  army's  public  health  program,  which  included  periodic  im- 
munization campaigns  conducted  nationwide,  was  also  a  great 
benefit  to  the  public.  The  Army  Medical  Service  maintained  a  num- 
ber of  clinics  that  served  the  local  population  as  well  as  military 
personnel  in  the  major  barracks  (cuarteles),  and  the  service  also  oper- 
ated mobile  health  centers  in  isolated  areas.  Beginning  in  1983, 
the  army  combined  civic  action  projects  with  its  "pacification"  cam- 
paigns (see  Left- Wing  Extremism,  this  ch.). 


217 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


The  navy  and  air  force  gradually  began  increasing  their  partici- 
pation in  civic  action  in  1965,  although  their  contribution  was  rela- 
tively small.  The  navy  participated  in  search-and-rescue  missions, 
particularly  in  the  protection  of  fishing  craft  off  the  southern  coast. 
The  air  force  used  its  Cessna  liaison  aircraft  extensively  in  civic 
action  missions,  especially  in  remote  or  isolated  areas,  where  it 
transported  medical  teams  to  clinics  and  provided  emergency 
evacuation. 

Education,  Training,  and  Rules  of  Conduct 
Military  Schools 

Aspiring  officers  for  all  three  services  completed  the  four-year 
course  of  the  Captain  General  Gerardo  Barrios  Military  Academy, 
graduating  with  a  bachelor's  degree  and  being  commissioned  with 
the  rank  of  second  lieutenant.  Located  a  few  miles  west  of  the  cap- 
ital, the  academy  was  the  primary  source  of  commissioned  officers 
in  the  army,  navy,  and  air  force.  In  1985  a  shortage  of  officers 
forced  the  academy  to  begin  operating  on  an  emergency  status  that 
required  the  curriculum  to  be  reduced  to  three  years. 

Enrollment  was  limited  to  unmarried  males  between  the  ages 
of  seventeen  and  twenty-one  who  had  graduated  from  high  school 
and  passed  competitive  entrance  examinations.  Students  spent  only 
their  first  year  training  at  the  academy.  During  the  rest  of  the  time, 
they  were  attached  to  various  battalions  throughout  the  country. 

Most  cadets  came  from  lower-middle-class  families;  during  the 
1980s,  many  came  from  areas  of  heavy  guerrilla  activity.  Fewer 
than  10  percent  of  the  enrolled  cadets  were  sons  of  military  officers. 
The  academy  also  trained  cadets  from  other  Central  American 
countries.  In  the  late  1980s,  it  usually  had  a  student  body  of  about 
225  cadets,  with  about  100  to  125  candidates  entering  each  year. 
Nevertheless,  a  tradition  of  strict,  even  brutal,  discipline  ensured 
a  first-year  drop-out  rate  of  35  to  40  percent,  and  only  10  to  20 
percent  of  each  class  graduated.  Under  this  system,  loyalty  to  class- 
mates was  particularly  strong. 

Academy  graduates  who  elected  to  serve  in  the  navy  or  air  force 
received  additional  specialized  training  before  being  transferred  to 
those  services.  For  example,  an  officer  who  enlisted  in  the  Salva- 
doran  Air  Force  underwent  flight  training  at  the  Military  Avia- 
tion School  (Escuela  de  Aviacion  Militar)  or  specialist  training  at 
the  Specialists'  School  (Escuela  de  Especializacion).  Most  officer 
personnel  also  pursued  some  additional  training  abroad,  especially 
in  the  United  States. 

By  law  Salvadoran  Army  officers  had  to  attend  their  own  ser- 
vice schools,  including  the  Command  and  General  Staff  School 


218 


National  Security 


(Escuela  de  Mando  y  Estado  Mayor  General).  This  war  college 
provided  courses  in  advanced  military  science  for  officers  of  the 
rank  of  lieutenant  colonel  and  above  and  aspiring  staff  officers. 
Regular  NCOs  were  trained  at  the  Noncommissioned  Officers 
School  and  at  the  Arms  and  Services  School  (Escuela  de  Armas 
y  Servicios — EAS).  The  EAS  provided  specialist  training  for  both 
officers  and  other  ranks,  as  well  as  an  advanced  six-month  course 
for  field-grade  officers.  Basic  and  advanced  officer  training  were 
offered  at  the  Armed  Forces  Military  Training  Center  (Centro  de 
Entrenamiento  Militar  de  las  Fuerzas  Armadas — CEMFA),  which 
was  established  in  La  Union  in  1984.  The  military  also  had  a  human 
rights  training  program  for  officers  and  enlisted  personnel.  Most 
officers  pursued  additional  postgraduate  studies  abroad.  In  the 
1980s,  many  Salvadoran  armed  forces  personnel  received  train- 
ing in  other  Latin  American  countries,  particularly  Argentina  and 
Chile;  at  the  School  of  the  Americas  in  Fort  Benning,  Georgia; 
and  in  Taiwan.  In  1983  officers  and  cadets  also  began  receiving 
scholarships  from  Britain,  Belgium,  Italy,  Spain,  and  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany). 

Officer  Corps  Dynamics 

In  the  Salvadoran  officer  corps,  personal  ties  and  political  orien- 
tation have  traditionally  been  more  important  than  military  com- 
petence. The  1948  revolution  institutionalized  a  caste-like  "old-boy 
network"  within  the  army  by  bringing  to  power  a  tanda,  or  mili- 
tary academy  graduating  class,  for  the  first  time.  Henceforth,  the 
members  of  each  tanda  traditionally  were  bound  to  lifelong  loyalty 
to  one  another.  A  tanda  formed  a  tight  clique,  with  its  members 
taking  their  first  commands  in  the  expectation  that  they  would  one 
day  be  running  the  country.  A  tanda  was  important  throughout  an 
officer's  career,  which  by  law  could  last  thirty  years.  Tanda  loyalty 
counted  more  than  political  or  personal  differences.  The  impor- 
tance of  a  tanda  increased  with  seniority,  as  its  leaders  moved  up 
into  positions  of  power  and  wealth.  Members  of  one  tanda  often 
formed  alliances  with  those  of  another,  although,  as  Richard  L. 
Millett  has  observed,  not  with  the  class  one  year  ahead  that  had 
mistreated  them  during  their  first  year,  nor  with  the  class  one  year 
behind  that  they  had  themselves  harassed. 

The  1963  tanda  of  D'Aubuisson,  a  former  army  and  GN  intelli- 
gence officer  and  an  ultraconservative  politician,  dominated  the 
army  in  the  early  1980s.  His  tanda  held  eleven  of  the  top  twenty 
field  commands,  controlling  four  of  the  country's  six  infantry 
brigades,  four  of  its  seven  regional  garrisons,  the  artillery  brigade, 
and  the  mechanized  cavalry  battalion.  D'Aubuisson  carefully 


219 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


cultivated  this  network.  Merely  having  classmates  in  so  many  key 
positions  did  not  mean,  however,  that  he  had  their  automatic  sup- 
port. Many  of  his  classmates  were  opposed  to  his  extreme  political 
viewpoint.  The  importance  of  D'Aubuisson's  tanda  connections  lay 
in  the  entree  they  gave  him  into  the  cuarteles  (barracks),  where  he 
also  had  the  support  of  a  number  of  junior  officers. 

Some  observers  believed  that  the  tanda  system  was  declining  in 
importance  by  the  mid-1980s  because  the  much  larger  class  sizes 
and  the  smaller  amount  of  time  that  classmates  were  together  were 
not  conducive  to  developing  strong  bonds.  The  emergence  in  the 
late  1980s  of  the  forty-six  member  tandona  of  1966  appeared  to  con- 
tradict that  view,  however.  The  so-called  reformist  members  of  the 
tandona  who  played  significant  roles  in  the  political  system  in  the 
late  1970s  and  early  1980s  included  Defense  Minister  Garcia,  his 
deputy  Carranza,  and  the  PN  head,  Colonel  Lopez  Nuila.  These 
officers  advocated  a  hard  line  against  the  opposition. 

The  promotion,  transfer,  or  retirement  of  at  least  thirty  senior 
officers  in  early  July  1988  marked  the  start  of  the  ascension  of  the 
tandona  to  command  posts.  As  a  result  of  the  changes — in  which 
younger,  more  conservative  officers  replaced  those  more  closely 
identified  with  President  Duarte — the  tandona  held  five  of  the  six 
prestigious  infantry  brigade  commands;  controlled  five  of  the  seven 
military  detachments,  the  three  security  forces,  and  the  intelligence, 
operations,  and  personnel  posts  in  the  High  Command;  and  oc- 
cupied numerous  other  key  slots.  The  leading  member  of  the  tan- 
dona, Colonel  Ponce,  was  promoted  to  the  position  of  chief  of  the 
Joint  General  Staff  in  November  1988  and  thus  assumed  the  coun- 
terinsurgency  command.  Although  most  of  the  top  hierarchy  was 
expected  to  be  replaced  by  March  1989,  tandona  members  were  mov- 
ing into  the  top  posts  slowly  because  the  traditional  seniority  rule 
did  not  allow  them  to  displace  officers  who  had  graduated  before 
them.  The  sweeping  command  changes,  however,  angered  many 
younger  officers,  who  viewed  the  colonels'  unusual  consolidation 
of  control  as  a  power  grab  that  blocked  others'  chances  for  promo- 
tion. Officers  above  and  below  the  tandona  bitterly  resented  it  be- 
cause of  its  size  and  influence. 

Military  Justice 

Military  justice  traditionally  adhered  to  a  standard  Western  pat- 
tern, providing  for  special  and  general  courts  martial.  Unit  or  post 
commanders  had  considerable  leeway  to  dispense  punishment 
without  resorting  to  formal  trial;  their  disciplinary  powers  served 
the  functions  of  a  summary  court.  The  average  Salvadoran  sol- 
dier traditionally  respected  authority  and  accepted  discipline  as  a 


220 


Salvadoran  Army  officer  and  soldier 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

normal  condition  of  military  life.  Although  the  officer  corps  had 
a  history  of  staging  coups  against  unpopular  military  leaders,  mili- 
tary commanders  rarely  mutinied.  Ochoa's  rebellion  in  1983  was 
a  glaring  exception  (see  The  Military  in  Power,  1931-84,  this  ch.). 
Discipline  was  not  usually  a  major  problem  in  the  armed  forces, 
and  most  offenses  and  infractions  were  dealt  with  by  administra- 
tive penalties. 

The  armed  forces  code  of  military  justice,  signed  by  Defense 
Minister  Vides  on  May  13,  1983,  was  loosely  enforced.  It  pertained 
only  to  military  offenses  and  stressed  the  military's  constitutional 
obligations,  the  proper  treatment  of  civilians,  respect  for  human 
rights,  and  the  use  of  only  the  minimum  force  necessary  to  achieve 
an  objective.  A  special  section  of  the  1983  code  of  conduct  was  de- 
voted to  procedures  for  handling  members  of  the  armed  forces 
arrested  for  criminal  activities  or  human  rights  violations.  Com- 
manders of  such  personnel  were  required  to  notify  the  Joint  General 
Staff  immediately  and  to  conduct  a  thorough  investigation.  Results 
of  the  investigation  were  then  to  be  furnished  to  the  general  staff 
and  the  Ministry  of  Defense  and  Public  Security.  During  the  in- 
vestigation, commanders  were  authorized  to  place  the  suspected 
service  member  under  arrest.  If  sufficient  proof  of  guilt  was  avail- 
able, the  suspect  was  to  be  turned  over  to  the  proper  judicial 
authority. 


221 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Article  216  of  the  Constitution  establishes  military  jurisdiction 
for  special  tribunals  and  proceedings  {procedimientos)  to  try  purely 
military  felonies  {delitos)  and  misdemeanors  (faltas).  The  verdicts 
of  these  courts  martial  may  be  appealed  in  the  ultimate  instance 
to  the  general  commander  of  the  armed  forces  or  to  the  respective 
chief  of  field  operations.  Civilian  felonies  {delitos  comunes)  commit- 
ted by  military  personnel  must  be  prosecuted  in  the  civil  judicial 
system,  but  intimidation  and  lack  of  cooperation  have  rendered 
military  personnel  essentially  immune  from  prosecution  in  the  civil 
courts.  This  reflected  the  generally  accepted  military  ethos  according 
to  which  one  never  subjected  a  fellow  officer  to  punishment  by 
civilians.  Some  army  officers  considered  Lopez  Nuila's  steps  to  in- 
vestigate human  rights  abuses  and  other  crimes  by  some  senior  army 
officers  to  have  violated  this  unwritten  code,  the  intent  of  which 
was  to  prevent  any  real  or  perceived  loss  of  military  power  and 
influence. 

In  1986  the  directors  of  each  of  the  three  security  forces  created 
internal  investigatory  units  responsible  for  inquiring  into  all  accu- 
sations made  against  members  of  those  forces.  If  the  investigators 
found  "probable  cause"  that  a  member  of  the  military  had  com- 
mitted a  crime,  the  member  was  to  be  released  from  the  force  and 
turned  over  to  the  proper  civilian  judicial  authorities  for  follow- 
up.  If  it  was  found  that  a  crime  had  not  been  committed  but  that 
authority  had  been  abused,  the  member  was  to  be  fined,  disciplined, 
or  released  from  the  service.  During  the  period  from  June  1985 
to  May  1986,  over  200  members  of  the  public  security  forces  were 
remanded  to  the  civilian  courts  for  prosecution.  Because  of  defi- 
ciencies in  the  Salvadoran  judicial  system's  record-keeping,  it  was 
not  known  how  many  of  those  were  convicted.  Nevertheless,  in 
1987  the  United  States  embassy  in  San  Salvador  conducted  a  study 
on  the  disposition  of  905  cases  of  military  and  public  security  forces 
members  who  had  been  dismissed  from  the  armed  forces  for  mis- 
conduct and  abuse  of  authority  and  whose  cases  had  been  remanded 
to  the  civilian  courts  for  adjudication.  The  investigation  found  that 
few  were  convicted,  a  situation  largely  attributable  to  the  inade- 
quacies of  the  judicial  system,  although  military  intimidation  was 
also  presumed  to  be  a  strong  factor. 

Resistance  to  investigation  was  particularly  strong  within  the 
officer  corps,  where  tanda  ties  traditionally  kept  officers  from  being 
arrested  or  prosecuted  for  alleged  crimes.  For  example,  when  Lieu- 
tenant Colonel  Roberto  Mauricio  Staben  Perla,  a  leading  tandona 
member,  was  detained  in  1987  under  suspicion  of  being  part  of 
a  kidnapping  ring  involving  several  military  officers,  his  classmates 
demanded  that  Duarte  permit  him  to  return  to  duty.  Consequendy, 


222 


National  Security 


Staben  was  released  without  ever  having  to  submit  to  a  formal 
investigation  of  the  charges  made  against  him  by  two  witnesses, 
and  he  resumed  his  post  as  commander  of  the  Arce  Battalion.  By 
1987  the  government  was  known  to  have  prosecuted  only  two  cases 
involving  abuses  against  Salvadoran  citizens  by  members  of  the 
armed  forces;  no  member  of  the  regular  officer  corps  had  been  con- 
victed of  involvement  in  the  many  murders  of  civilians  since  1979. 

Foreign  Military  Influence  and  Assistance 

From  1901  until  1957,  four  different  Chilean  military  missions 
directed  El  Salvador's  military  training  and  operations  on  an  almost 
continuous  basis.  In  1941  the  Chileans  founded  the  first  war  col- 
lege, called  the  Command  and  General  Staff  School,  and  they 
directed  its  activities  until  1957,  when  the  Salvadorans  took  over 
its  administration. 

Although  Germany  was  El  Salvador's  first  European  supplier 
of  military  equipment  in  the  1920s,  France  and  Denmark  also 
provided  weaponry  in  the  1920s  and  1930s.  Small  groups  of  Italian 
specialists  trained  Salvadoran  military  personnel  in  the  handling 
of  military  equipment  acquired  from  Italy  during  the  1930s. 

United  States  military  assistance  to  El  Salvador  began  in  the 
1930s  with  the  provision  of  some  aircraft  and  ground  forces  equip- 
ment. In  the  closing  stages  of  World  War  II,  the  United  States 
transferred  a  few  additional  aircraft  to  El  Salvador.  After  signing 
the  Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assistance  (the  Rio  Treaty) 
in  1947,  El  Salvador  began  benefiting  from  assistance  provided  by 
a  United  States  air  mission  as  well  as  from  increased  transfers  of 
aircraft.  The  Salvadoran  Air  Force  became  equipped  almost  ex- 
clusively with  United  States  aircraft. 

Although  the  United  States  remained  primarily  responsible  for 
El  Salvador's  foreign  training  assistance  from  1957  through  1988, 
the  aid  program  totaled  less  than  US$17  million  in  equipment  and 
training  between  1950  and  1979.  The  US$7.4  million  in  Military 
Assistance  Program  (MAP)  funds  provided  during  that  period  was 
far  less  than  that  received  by  any  other  Central  American  country 
except  Costa  Rica.  After  the  1961  coup,  the  United  States  expanded 
its  military  mission,  which  by  1970  numbered  sixteen  personnel. 
In  March  1977,  after  the  United  States  administration  of  Presi- 
dent Jimmy  Carter  criticized  El  Salvador  for  human  rights  viola- 
tions, the  country  rejected  further  United  States  military  aid. 

El  Salvador  then  turned  to  countries  other  than  the  United  States 
for  military  materiel.  Salvadoran  land  and  air  forces  purchased 
modern  counterinsurgency  equipment  primarily  from  Brazil,  Israel, 
and  France.  In  addition  to  acquiring  numerous  aircraft,  El  Salvador 


223 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

also  completely  reequipped  its  infantry  with  G3  rifles  from  West 
Germany,  some  of  which  were  still  in  use  in  the  late  1980s,  and 
purchased  quantities  of  West  German  wheeled  armored  person- 
nel carriers  (APCs).  El  Salvador  also  obtained  some  artillery  pieces 
from  Yugoslavia  during  the  1970s. 

After  reformist  military  officers  overthrew  the  Romero  regime 
in  October  1979,  the  Carter  administration,  eager  to  improve  con- 
tacts with  the  military,  allocated  to  El  Salvador  a  small  amount 
of  training  funds  and  US$5.7  million  in  "nonlethal"  foreign  mili- 
tary sales  (FMS)  in  FY  1980.  Renewed  United  States  military  as- 
sistance began  in  November  1979  with  the  arrival  of  a  six-man  Mo- 
bile Training  Team  (MTT)  to  provide  riot-control  training.  The 
Carter  administration  had  hoped  to  use  military  aid  to  persuade 
the  army  to  curb  its  human  rights  abuses,  make  basic  reforms,  and 
allow  civilian  rule.  The  murders  of  four  churchwomen  from  the 
United  States  in  December  1980,  however,  provoked  the  Carter 
White  House  into  suspending  US$5  million  in  military  aid.  After 
the  FMLN  guerrillas  launched  a  major  offensive  in  January  1981 , 
United  States  military  aid  was  renewed  (see  The  United  States 
Takes  a  Hand,  ch.  1). 

The  new  administration  of  President  Ronald  Reagan  was 
alarmed  by  reports  that  military  aid  was  being  provided  by  the 
Soviet  Union  and  East  European  countries  to  the  guerrillas  through 
Cuba  and  Nicaragua;  the  administration  was  also  concerned  about 
the  prospect  of  "another  Nicaragua"  in  Central  America.  Accord- 
ingly, in  March  1981  it  provided  US$20  million  in  emergency  funds 
and  US$5  million  in  FMS  credits  for  new  equipment  and  supplies 
for  the  Salvadoran  Army.  A  five-member  United  States  advisory 
team  helped  the  Salvadoran  Army  to  reorganize  its  command  struc- 
ture, streamline  planning,  and  develop  intelligence  and  commu- 
nications techniques.  The  United  States  also  sent  an  additional  40 
Special  Forces  trainers-advisers  to  El  Salvador  to  train  the  first  of 
four  1,000-man  "rapid  reaction"  battalions,  the  Atlacatl  Battal- 
ion. The  United  States  military  mission  in  El  Salvador  expanded 
in  1981  to  include  a  naval  element.  That  year  the  first  group  of 
500  Salvadoran  officer  candidates  participated  in  a  general  officer 
training  course  at  Fort  Benning,  Georgia.  The  United  States  also 
began  training  Salvadoran  NCOs  in  Panama.  In  1982  Special 
Forces  provided  counterinsurgency  training  to  the  Belloso  Battal- 
ion and  the  Atonal  Battalion.  By  late  1983,  the  United  States  had 
trained  900  Salvadoran  officers,  or  half  the  entire  officer  corps. 

The  United  States  also  provided  both  indirect  and  direct  war- 
related  assistance  to  help  El  Salvador  in  its  war  against  the  FMLN. 
The  indirect  aid  accounted  for  about  44  percent  of  the  total  United 


224 


Helicopters  on  alert  status,  Ilopango  Air  Base 
Courtesy  Donald  C.  Keffer 

States  assistance  program  up  to  the  mid-1980s.  This  category  in- 
cluded cash  transfers  to  sustain  the  Salvadoran  government  and 
economy,  aid  to  displaced  people,  and  assistance  to  rebuild  infra- 
structure damaged  by  guerrilla  sabotage.  Some  30  percent  of  the 
total  program  consisted  of  funds  used  to  expand  the  army,  train 
the  soldiers,  and  provide  the  equipment  and  facilities  needed  to 
conduct  the  counterinsurgency  efforts. 

The  provision  of  military  aid  to  El  Salvador  was  not  without  its 
critics  in  the  United  States  government.  By  1982,  when  the  Reagan 
administration  had  more  than  doubled  direct  military  assistance 
to  El  Salvador  to  US$82  million,  the  United  States  Congress  re- 
quired the  president  to  certify  semiannually  that  the  Salvadoran 
government  was  making  substantial  progress  in  controlling  the  mili- 
tary, improving  its  human  rights  practices,  and  implementing  eco- 
nomic and  political  reform.  Failure  to  issue  such  a  certification 
would  trigger  a  suspension  of  United  States  military  aid.  In  1983 
Congress  passed  a  continuing  resolution  that  withheld  30  percent 
of  the  military  aid  until  Salvadoran  authorities  obtained  a  verdict 
in  the  trial  of  the  members  of  the  GN  accused  of  murdering  the 
churchwomen  from  the  United  States.  In  1984  Congress  passed 
another  continuing  resolution  that  made  aid  disbursements  con- 
ditional on  the  Reagan  administration's  consultation  with  Con- 
gress. The  resolution  also  called  for  substantial  progress  in  the 


225 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

reduction  of  death  squad  activities,  elimination  of  corruption,  im- 
provement in  the  military's  performance,  and  progress  toward  a 
peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict. 

The  Reagan  administration  sought  to  establish  a  domestic  con- 
sensus on  United  States  policy  toward  Central  America  by  way 
of  the  National  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Central  America  (the 
Kissinger  Commission).  The  commission  concluded  in  January 
1984  that  the  37,500-man  Salvadoran  Army  was  too  small  to  break 
the  military  stalemate  with  the  9,000  to  12,000  increasingly  well- 
trained  and  well-armed  FMLN  guerrillas.  It  therefore  recom- 
mended that  the  United  States  significantly  and  quickly  increase 
military  aid — conditioned  on  demonstrated  progress  in  meeting 
specified  human  rights  goals — to  give  the  Salvadoran  military  the 
ability  to  carry  out  an  effective  and  more  humane  counterinsur- 
gency  effort.  The  commission's  recommendations  were  instrumen- 
tal in  securing  increased  levels  of  United  States  military  aid  for 
El  Salvador.  During  the  next  four  years,  El  Salvador  received  an 
average  of  US$100  million  annually  in  United  States  military  as- 
sistance. The  assistance  levels  peaked  at  US$197  million  in  fiscal 
year  (FY)  1984,  then  declined  steadily,  reaching  US$89  million 
in  FY  1988. 

In  1983  and  1984,  about  3,500  Salvadorans  attended  United 
States-taught  training  courses  at  the  Regional  Military  Training 
Center  (RMTC),  operated  by  the  United  States  forces  at  Puerto 
Castilla,  Honduras,  as  an  alternative  to  more  costly  training  in  the 
United  States  or  an  increase  in  the  number  of  United  States  advisers 
in  El  Salvador.  That  September,  however,  the  Honduran  govern- 
ment banned  Salvadoran  troops  from  the  facility,  owing  in  part 
to  a  lack  of  progress  in  talks  between  Honduras  and  El  Salvador 
over  their  longstanding  border  dispute.  Honduras  reportedly  also 
was  uneasy  over  the  United  States  military  training  on  Honduran 
territory  of  personnel  from  El  Salvador,  its  adversary  in  the  1969 
war.  When  Honduras  and  the  United  States  failed  to  reach  an 
accord  over  the  training  issue,  the  RMTC  was  closed  in  June  1985. 

The  United  States  began  sending  military  advisers,  officially 
designated  *  'trainers,"  to  El  Salvador  in  1983  to  help  instruct  the 
army  in  basic  skills  and  counterinsurgency  tactics.  The  Reagan 
administration  imposed  a  limit  of  fifty-five  American  advisers  in 
El  Salvador  and  adhered  to  that  figure.  In  1988  only  half  of  the 
fifty-five  reportedly  were  involved  in  training;  the  others  performed 
administrative  duties. 

El  Salvador  also  received  military-related  assistance  from  several 
other  countries  in  the  1980s.  In  1982  Argentina  supplied  a  cadre 
of  military  advisers  with  a  large  order  of  Argentine-made  infantry 


226 


National  Security 


equipment.  Israel  reportedly  provided  assistance  in  the  form  of 
counterinsurgency  training.  Both  Britain  and  Belgium  offered  mili- 
tary training  to  the  Salvadoran  Army  after  the  Honduran  deci- 
sion to  bar  Salvadoran  military  personnel.  By  the  mid-1980s,  West 
Germany  was  a  major  supplier  of  military  assistance. 

The  Security  Forces 
Historical  Background 

In  the  early  post-colonial  period,  the  primary  function  of  police 
forces  was  to  enforce,  at  the  behest  of  local  authorities  of  towns 
and  communities,  an  1825  law  on  vagrancy  in  order  to  ensure  an 
adequate  supply  of  labor  for  the  large  landowners.  New  regula- 
tions issued  in  1855  established  a  state-subsidized  regional  "rural 
police"  force,  whose  roving  inspectors  were  to  patrol  the  highways 
and  countryside  and  to  penalize  offenders  for  minor  offenses  by 
fining  or  jailing  them. 

Salvadoran  police  structures,  including  the  National  Police 
(Policia  Nacional — PN),  which  was  founded  in  1867,  developed 
in  the  later  part  of  the  nineteenth  century  for  the  purpose  of  as- 
suming most  of  the  internal  security  functions  that  the  urban-based 
militia  or  army  had  been  performing.  In  1883  San  Salvador  set 
up  a  permanent  professional  police  corps  of  100  men  and  18  officers 
and  administrators.  As  a  result  of  the  liberal  government's  mea- 
sures to  deprive  the  Indian  population  of  their  land,  expanded  police 
forces  were  needed  to  deal  with  the  growing  Indian  unrest.  An  1888 
legislative  decree  authorized  the  formation  of  a  rural  mounted  police 
corps  for  the  prosperous  coffee- growing  areas  of  western  El  Sal- 
vador, principally  the  departments  of  Ahuachapan,  Sonsonate,  and 
Santa  Ana. 

A  national  urban  police  system  developed  concurrently  with  the 
rural  National  Guard  (Guardia  Nacional — GN).  By  the  end  of 
1906,  the  full-time  police  forces  of  the  other  major  cities  were  linked 
administratively  to  the  San  Salvador  police.  President  Manuel 
Araujo  established  the  basis  of  a  professional  law  enforcement  sys- 
tem in  1912  when  he  appointed  a  Spanish  army  captain  as  com- 
mander of  all  the  permanent  civil  police  organizations.  The  cap- 
tain formed  a  national  police  corps  of  1,200  officers  and  men  and 
developed  a  training  program. 

The  evolution  of  the  rural  police  system  culminated  in  1912  when 
two  Spanish  officers  formed  a  Salvadoran  version  of  the  Spanish 
Civil  Guard  called  the  GN.  Placed  under  the  operational  control 
of  the  Ministry  of  Government  and  Development,  the  guard's 
black-helmeted  troops  were  organized  specifically  to  defend  coffee 


227 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

and  fruit  plantations  from  thousands  of  peasants  evicted  from  what 
had  been  communal  properties.  Although  the  main  duty  of  the  GN 
was  to  control  the  rural  population,  it  also  enforced  petty  agrarian 
provisions  and  kept  records  on  personnel  employed  by  plantations. 
Thus,  many  GN  units — like  their  army  counterparts — acted  as  pri- 
vate armies  for  the  large  landowners.  The  Treasury  Police  (Policia 
de  Hacienda — PH),  formed  in  1926,  functioned  mainly  as  a  frontier 
guard  and  customs  force.  Its  initial  mission  was  primarily  to  pre- 
vent campesinos  from  producing  chicha,  the  local  version  of  corn 
liquor. 

In  January  1932,  a  month  after  taking  power,  Martinez  ordered 
his  security  forces  to  use  indiscriminate  violence  to  suppress  a  rural 
revolt  in  western  El  Salvador  organized  by  the  newly  established 
Communist  Party  of  El  Salvador  (Partido  Comunista  de  El  Salva- 
dor— PCES).  The  GN  and  Civic  Guard  (Guardia  Civica),  a  newly 
created  civilian  militia,  thereupon  massacred,  by  most  historical 
accounts,  approximately  30,000  peasants,  trade  unionists,  and  op- 
position members  in  la  matanza  and  captured  and  executed  the  com- 
munist leader,  Agustm  Farabundo  Marti  (see  The  Coffee  Republic, 
ch.  1). 

The  Martinez  regime  refined  a  system  of  stricter  control  of  the 
rural  population  by  developing  the  rural  security  forces,  includ- 
ing the  Civic  Guard,  with  units  in  each  of  more  than  2,000  local 
communities.  After  the  rebellion,  Civic  Guard  units  functioned  as 
a  private  militia  for  wealthy  families  and  military  commanders. 
The  regime  based  its  new  security  measures  largely  on  existing  legis- 
lation and  the  Agrarian  Code,  which  it  revised  in  1941  in  order 
to  set  down  guidelines  for  law  enforcement  and  the  regimentation 
of  rural  life.  The  basic  organization  of  the  security  system  as  es- 
tablished by  Martinez  operated  with  little  modification  until  the 
1980s.  The  Revolution  of  1948,  however,  reversed  the  subordina- 
tion of  the  army  to  the  security  services  and  disbanded  the  Civic 
Guard.  The  three  police  forces  thereafter  assumed  primary  respon- 
sibility for  internal  security. 

In  the  early  1960s,  some  Salvadoran  officers  of  an  extreme  rightist 
orientation  formed  paramilitary  organizations  to  assist  the  army 
and  GN  in  fighting  subversion  with  unconventional  and  illegal 
methods  (see  Right-Wing  Extremism,  this  ch.).  The  GN's  Colonel 
Jose  Alberto  "Chele"  Medrano  helped  found  the  Nationalist 
Democratic  Organization  (Organizacion  Democratica  Naciona- 
lista — Orden).  By  the  mid-1960s,  Orden  was  a  well-established, 
nationwide  network  of  peasant  informants  and  paramilitary  forces, 
with  a  unit  in  most  villages.  Local  army  commanders  supervised 
these  units  in  coordination  with  GN  commanders.  Recruits  came 


228 


National  Security 


primarily  from  the  army  reserve  system,  and  the  GN  provided  most 
of  their  training.  Orden  units  performed  regular  patrolling  duties 
in  their  local  areas,  served  as  an  informant  network,  and  attempted 
to  inculcate  an  anticommunist  doctrine  among  the  rural  popula- 
tion. With  the  support  of  President  Fidel  Sanchez  Hernandez,  its 
"supreme  chief,"  and  Medrano,  its  "executive  director,"  the 
organization  expanded  its  role  in  the  late  1960s  to  include  involve- 
ment in  civic  action  and  development  projects.  Because  of  the  in- 
fluence of  some  of  the  more  zealous  GN  intelligence  officers, 
however,  Orden  deteriorated  into  an  undisciplined  and  even  ruthless 
militia  of  between  50,000  and  100,000  members.  After  Medrano's 
removal  from  power  in  1970,  Orden 's  status  was  reduced  from  offi- 
cial to  semiofficial  by  removing  it  from  direct  presidential  control. 

By  the  early  1970s,  an  extensive  paramilitary  organization  utiliz- 
ing the  structure  and  personnel  of  Orden  supplemented  the  tradi- 
tional security  system.  Although  the  reformist  coalition  that  seized 
power  in  October  1979  issued  decrees  to  outiaw  and  disband  Orden 
that  November,  the  organization  apparendy  was  abolished  in  name 
only.  In  1976  a  new  civil  defense  law  had  established  a  system  to 
assist  in  national  emergencies  and  to  counter  attempts  at  rural  in- 
surgency. The  membership  of  the  new  civil  defense  units  that  were 
finally  organized  in  1981  reportedly  tended  to  overlap  with  that 
of  Orden.  The  main  purpose  of  the  new  civil  defense  units  was 
to  serve  as  local  self-defense  militia  and  to  repel  guerrilla  attacks 
on  villages.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  Salvadoran  Army  claimed  to 
have  organized  21,000  civil  defense  troops  in  319  communities, 
with  another  10,000  troops  in  training.  Despite  being  lightly  armed 
and  poorly  trained,  the  civil  defense  troops  were  an  important  sup- 
plement to  the  thinly  stretched  army. 

Mission  and  Organization 

In  1988,  El  Salvador's  internal  security  forces,  called  the  public 
security  forces,  consisted  of  the  GN,  with  4,200  members;  the  PN, 
with  6,000  members;  and  the  PH,  with  about  2,400  members. 
These  services  were  supported  by  the  territorial  Civil  Defense 
(Defensa  Civil — DC),  with  about  24,000  members.  Although  con- 
trolled by  the  minister  of  defense  and  public  security,  even  in  peace- 
time, and  engaged  in  the  counterinsurgency  effort,  the  public  secu- 
rity forces  had  primarily  a  police  role.  By  mid- 1988  the  police  forces 
had  improved  markedly  in  professionalism  and  performance,  but 
they  still  lacked  sufficient  training  and  resources  to  deter  or  respond 
effectively  to  terrorist  attacks. 

The  PN  was  responsible  for  urban  security,  the  GN  for  rural 
security,  and  the  PH — including  customs  and  immigration  per- 
sonnel— for  the  prevention  of  smuggling,  for  border  control,  and 


229 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

for  the  enforcement  of  laws  relating  to  alcohol  production  and  as- 
sociated tax  matters.  The  GN  was  organized  into  fourteen  com- 
panies, one  for  each  of  the  fourteen  departments.  A  tactical  struc- 
ture of  five  commands  or  battalions  could  replace  the  regular  or- 
ganization in  an  emergency.  The  PN  was  divided  into  the  Line 
Police  (Policia  de  Lmea),  which  functioned  as  an  urban  police  force; 
the  Traffic  Police  (Policia  de  Transito),  which  handled  traffic  in 
urban  areas;  the  Highway  Patrol  (Policia  de  Caminos);  the  Depart- 
ment of  Investigations  (Departamento  de  Investigaciones),  or  plain- 
clothes detective  force;  and  the  Night  Watchmen  and  Bank  Guards 
Corps  (Cuerpo  de  Vigilantes  Nocturnos  y  Bancarios). 

Until  the  early  1980s,  the  security  forces  were  among  the  most 
notorious  violators  of  human  rights  in  El  Salvador.  The  PH,  with 
an  extensive  network  of  rural  informants,  evolved  into  the  most 
select  and  brutal  of  the  three  security  forces  during  its  first  fifty 
years.  Police  and  army  units  were  involved  in  a  number  of  bloody 
incidents  when  they  attempted  to  break  up  large  demonstrations 
(see  The  Reformist  Coup  of  1979,  ch.  1). 

After  taking  office  as  president  in  1984,  however,  Duarte,  in  an 
effort  to  tighten  discipline  and  centralize  control  over  the  tradition- 
ally semiautonomous  security  forces,  created  the  new  position  of 
vice  minister  of  defense  and  public  security  and  named  Colonel 
Lopez  Nuila  to  fill  it.  Lopez  Nuila  thereupon  reorganized  all  police 
forces  and  private  guard  organizations  as  he  sought  to  clarify  the 
ambiguous,  overlapping  responsibilities  of  the  PN,  PH,  and  GN. 
The  reorganization  gave  the  PN  sole  responsibility  for  urban  law 
and  order  and  restricted  the  GN's  authority  to  rural  areas.  In  ad- 
dition, Lopez  Nuila  merged  the  Customs  Police  (Policia  de  Aduana) 
with  the  PH,  thus  removing  the  latter  from  nationwide  law-and- 
order  duties  and  restricting  it  to  handling  border  duties  and 
supervising  the  defense  of  state  property  and  customs.  Lopez  Nuila 
also  replaced  the  controversial  PH  director  general,  Carranza,  with 
an  ally,  Colonel  Rinaldo  Golcher.  Golcher  placed  all  other  paramili- 
tary organizations — from  the  guard  forces  that  defended  electric 
companies  and  banks  to  the  private  guards  that  were  hired  by  indi- 
viduals or  private  firms — under  the  control  and  licensing  of  the 
PH.  Lopez  Nuila  also  made  an  effort  to  purge  the  security  ser- 
vices of  disreputable  personnel.  He  announced  in  December  1986 
that  1 ,806  members  of  the  public  security  forces  had  been  dismissed 
between  June  1985  and  May  1986. 

In  November  1986,  Duarte  inaugurated  a  program  under  which 
the  three  security  services  would  receive  training.  As  a  result,  man- 
datory human  rights  instruction  became  part  of  police  recruit  train- 
ing and  officers'  classes  in  the  late  1980s.  The  security  forces 


230 


Member  of  National  Guard 
Courtesy  Donald  C.  Keffer 


instituted  a  separate  intensive  human  rights  training  program 
for  all  police.  By  early  1988,  virtually  all  members  of  the  PN 
had  received  the  course,  and  the  GN  was  in  the  process  of  receiv- 
ing it. 

Foreign  Security  Assistance 

The  United  States  provided  some  basic  equipment  and  training 
to  the  public  security  forces.  Between  1957  and  1974,  the  United 
States,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Public  Safety  Program  of  the 
Agency  for  International  Development  (AID),  improved  the  law 
enforcement  investigations,  communications,  and  intelligence  capa- 
bilities of  the  police  services,  including  the  GN.  The  US$2.1  mil- 
lion program  assisted  in  the  formation  of  two  fifty-member,  rapid- 
reaction,  riot-control  units  based  at  the  national  police  headquar- 
ters in  the  capital  and  similar  units  in  national  police  quarters  in 
San  Miguel  and  Santa  Ana.  Program  advisers  also  reorganized  the 
Police  Academy  and  implemented  various  measures  to  improve 
police  antiterrorist  capabilities.  The  GN's  Special  Investigations 
Section  (Servicio  de  Investigaciones  Especiales — SIE)  received  con- 
siderable United  States  assistance  in  the  early  1970s.  The  Public 
Safety  Program  also  aided  in  expanding  and  training  personnel 
of  the  Customs  Police,  which  grew  from  250  members  in  1967  to 
527  in  1974.  Until  1981  the  Carter  administration  limited  United 
States  security  assistance  to  El  Salvador  to  "nonlethal"  items,  such 


231 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


as  bullet-proof  vests,  in  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  force  the 
Salvadoran  security  forces  to  improve  their  human  rights  practices. 

In  late  1985,  the  Reagan  administration,  alarmed  by  several  sig- 
nificant terrorist  incidents  in  El  Salvador,  including  the  slaying  of 
five  Marine  guards  attached  to  the  United  States  embassy,  noti- 
fied Congress  that  three  United  States  military  advisers  in  El  Sal- 
vador would  begin  training  420  members  of  the  PH,  PN,  and  GN 
in  antiterrorism  techniques.  The  administration  also  intended  to 
equip  these  forces  with  rifles,  ammunition,  patrol  vehicles,  and  com- 
munications gear.  The  Foreign  Assistance  Act  of  1974  prohibited 
the  United  States  from  providing  financial  support,  training,  or 
advice  for  the  law  enforcement  forces  of  any  foreign  country.  The 
United  States  Congress,  however,  passed  an  amendment  to  the 
act  waiving  the  general  police  aid  prohibition  for  El  Salvador  and 
Honduras  for  FY  1986  and  FY  1987,  contingent  on  biannual 
presidential  certification  of  significant  progress  in  reducing  human 
rights  violations  in  those  countries.  Under  the  waiver,  the  United 
States  provided  US$3.1  million  in  police  training  to  El  Salvador 
in  FY  1986  and  another  US$14  million  in  FY  1987  through  both 
the  Antiterrorism  Assistance  Act  and  the  Administration  of  Justice 
Program. 

United  States  efforts  to  aid  the  counterterrorist  capability  of  the 
Salvadoran  armed  forces  included  the  formation  in  1985  of  a 
hostage-rescue  unit  called  the  Special  Antiterrorist  Command 
(Comando  Especial  Anti-Terrorista — CEAT).  Although  under  the 
direct  command  of  the  army  chief  of  staff,  the  CEAT  reportedly 
consisted  of  PH  members.  Under  the  United  States  Law  Enforce- 
ment Counterterrorism  Assistance  Program,  El  Salvador  received 
several  million  dollars  in  police  assistance.  As  a  result  of  funding 
cutbacks,  only  three  trainers  were  working  with  the  public  secur- 
ity forces  on  a  national  level  in  mid- 1988.  That  year,  the  security 
forces  also  organized  the  Joint  Intelligence  Operations  Center 
(Centro  de  Operaciones  Conjuntos  de  Inteligencia — COCI),  with 
a  mission  to  collect,  integrate,  and  analyze  intelligence  relating  to 
terrorist  activities  in  the  San  Salvador  metropolitan  area. 

Threats  to  Internal  Security 

In  the  final  quarter  of  1988,  El  Salvador  continued  to  suffer  the 
effects  of  a  nine-year-old  insurgency  by  the  FMLN,  whose  6,000 
to  8,000  armed  combatants — a  figure  reduced  by  attrition  and 
desertion  from  the  estimated  12,000  guerrillas  in  the  field  in 
1984 — received  varying  degrees  of  support  from  Nicaragua,  Cuba, 
and  the  Soviet  Union.  By  most  estimates,  more  than  63,000  peo- 
ple, or  about  1.2  percent  of  the  nation's  total  population,  had  died 


232 


National  Security 


in  political  violence  since  1979,  victims  of  either  leftist  guerrillas, 
the  military,  or  right-wing  death  squads.  At  the  same  time,  25  to 
30  percent  of  the  population  had  been  displaced  or  had  fled  the 
country  as  a  result  of  the  conflict.  Tutela  Legal  (Legal  Aid — the 
human  rights  monitoring  office  of  the  archdiocese  of  San  Salvador) 
and  other  human  rights  groups  claimed  that  the  rightist  death 
squads  had  murdered  more  than  40,000  Salvadorans  by  1985.  Dur- 
ing the  Duarte  government,  military  and  right-wing  death  squad 
activity  declined  significantly,  partially  as  a  result  of  United  States 
threats  to  withhold  economic  and  military  assistance. 

In  January  1987,  constitutional  rights  were  restored  when  the 
state  of  siege,  instituted  in  1980  and  regularly  renewed  since  that 
date,  was  allowed  to  lapse.  Extraordinary  legislation  governing  the 
prosecution  of  persons  suspected  of  involvement  with  the  insur- 
gency (Decree  50)  expired  several  weeks  later.  Although  the  mili- 
tary was  concerned  that  the  failure  to  renew  these  security  decrees 
would  adversely  affect  their  ability  to  conduct  the  war,  it  complied 
nonetheless  by  reinstating  due  process  procedures  as  set  forth  in 
the  Constitution.  The  security  forces  followed  presidential  orders 
not  to  take  coercive  action  to  halt  a  series  of  violent  demonstra- 
tions and  strikes  by  guerrilla  urban  front  groups,  whose  members 
vandalized  and  destroyed  public  and  private  property,  in  the  May 
to  August  period  of  1987. 

Under  the  general  amnesty  law  of  November  1987,  passed  by 
the  Legislative  Assembly  in  an  effort  to  comply  with  the  Central 
American  Peace  Agreement,  the  government  released  about  470 
suspected  or  convicted  insurgents — including  some  involved  in 
several  major  terrorist  incidents — along  with  a  few  former  mili- 
tary personnel  involved  in  death  squad  murders.  The  amnesty  cov- 
ered "politically  related  crimes"  and  all  common  crimes  commit- 
ted in  a  group  of  more  than  twenty  persons.  It  specifically  exclud- 
ed, however,  the  crime  of  kidnapping,  the  1980  murder  of  Arch- 
bishop Romero,  and  the  period  after  October  22,  1987.  Interpreted 
broadly,  the  amnesty  could  prevent  charges  from  being  filed  for 
massacres  by  the  military  and  killings  by  the  death  squads  and  could 
require  the  release  of  soldiers  convicted  of  human  rights  abuses. 
Both  the  left  and  the  right  criticized  the  law;  the  left  objected  to 
an  effective  pardon  for  thousands  of  death  squad  assassinations, 
and  the  far  right  condemned  pardons  for  acts  of  terrorism  and 
sabotage. 

The  government's  leniency  did  litde  to  alleviate  political  violence, 
however.  The  capital  city  was  exposed  almost  daily  to  leftist- 
sponsored  demonstrations,  strikes,  and  economic  sabotage,  as  well 
as  bombings.  According  to  the  United  States  Department  of  State, 


233 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


in  the  first  quarter  of  1988  the  capital  suffered  213  incidents  of 
sabotage  against  its  telecommunications  and  electrical  systems,  as 
well  as  49  acts  of  economic  sabotage  and  138  strikes  or  demon- 
strations. 

Right-Wing  Extremism 

Background 

The  death  squads  that  became  active  in  the  late  1970s  had  their 
historical  roots  in  El  Salvador's  three  security  forces,  which  often 
functioned  as  a  law  unto  themselves.  Each  security  service  had  its 
own  special  unit  charged  with  assassinating  suspected  "subver- 
sives." The  PH's  intelligence  section,  the  S-2,  in  particular  was 
persistently  linked  to  the  political  killings  and  kidnappings  that  be- 
came commonplace  in  the  1970s  and  early  1980s.  Immediately  after 
being  appointed  PH  director  general  in  1984,  Golcher  disbanded 
the  S-2  unit.  Within  six  months,  he  had  replaced  it  with  a  new 
forty-member  police  force  trained  by  the  PN  in  intelligence  work. 

The  extreme  right  responded  to  the  left-wing  terrorism  of  the 
1970s  and  the  growing  militancy  of  the  popular  (or  mass)  organi- 
zations in  a  violent  fashion.  Paramilitary  forces — first  Orden,  later 
civil  defense — supplemented  the  military  establishment.  Ultra- 
rightists  within  the  military,  security  forces,  and  oligarchy  also  or- 
ganized death  squads  to  eliminate  leftist  activists  and  sympathizers 
and  to  deter  popular  support  through  intimidation.  Analysts  gener- 
ally agreed  that  right-wing  death  squads — often  composed  of  active- 
duty  military  or  security  force  personnel  operating  with  the  com- 
plicity of  some  senior  officers  of  the  armed  forces — were  responsi- 
ble for  thousands  of  murders  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  At  the  same 
time,  the  regime's  security  forces  themselves  became  increasingly 
violent. 

Orden  supplied  recruits  for  the  notorious  White  Hand  (Mano 
Blanca),  the  death  squad  that  Medrano  organized  in  the  late  1970s. 
Medrano's  protege,  D'Aubuisson,  reportedly  helped  organize  the 
White  Warriors  Union  (Union  de  Guerreros  Blancos — UGB),  a 
group  of  death  squads  that  emerged  in  early  1977  and  became 
known  for  their  terrorism  against  the  Jesuit  community  working 
in  El  Salvador.  Some  military  officers,  particularly  in  the  GN,  pri- 
vately supported  and  facilitated  death  squad  killings  during  the 
Romero  regime.  The  UGB  reportedly  was  associated  with  the  GN's 
intelligence  branch  (the  G-2). 

Extreme  rightist  political  factions  viewed  the  death  squads  as 
legitimate  "counterterrorists"  against  the  leftist  guerrillas,  and  they 
did  in  fact  do  serious  damage  to  the  FMLN's  urban  base  by  1982. 


National  Security 


In  1983,  however,  the  death  squads  were  used  to  challenge  directly 
the  influence  of  the  United  States  in  El  Salvador.  They  forced  at 
least  one  American  journalist  out  of  the  country,  threatened  a 
prominent  labor  leader  supported  by  the  United  States  embassy, 
and  even  threatened  to  assassinate  United  States  ambassador 
Thomas  Pickering.  Other  death  squad  victims  included  bureaucrats 
and  office  workers,  labor  organizers,  professionals,  politicians, 
priests,  and  even  soldiers. 

Right-wing  terrorism  crested  during  the  1980-82  period.  At  the 
peak  of  the  violence  in  late  1980,  the  monthly  toll  of  politically  moti- 
vated murders  ran  between  700  and  800.  In  the  most  publicized 
political  assassination  of  this  period,  suspected  rightists  shot  Arch- 
bishop Romero — an  outspoken  advocate  of  dialogue  with  the  popu- 
lar organizations  and  a  critic  of  military  repression — while  he  was 
saying  mass  on  March  24,  1980  (see  The  Role  of  Religion,  ch.  2). 
An  extreme  right-wing  group  calling  itself  the  Maximiliano 
Hernandez  Martinez  Brigade  claimed  responsibility  for  several  as- 
sassinations of  Christian  democratic  and  Marxist  leaders  in  San 
Salvador  in  1980.  Four  churchwomen  from  the  United  States  were 
murdered  in  December  1980.  Several  army  officers  were  linked 
to  the  submachine  gun  killings  of  two  land  reform  advisers  of  the 
American  Institute  for  Free  Labor  Development  (AIFLD)  in  San 
Salvador's  Sheraton  Hotel  on  January  3,  1981,  an  act  that  was 
carried  out  by  two  GN  corporals.  After  the  cut-off  of  United  States 
aid  over  the  murders  of  the  churchwomen,  the  Christian  Democrats 
in  the  government  were  able  to  remove  from  command  positions 
several  key  ultra-rightists,  including  Carranza,  the  deputy  minister 
of  defense  and  public  security. 

Curbing  the  Death  Squads 

In  December  1983,  the  Reagan  administration  promised  Magana 
an  additional  US$100  million  in  military  aid  if  his  government  took 
action  against  the  death  squads  and  dismissed  from  their  official 
posts  or  transferred  abroad  at  least  eight  armed  forces  officers  and 
one  civilian  who  had  been  identified  as  death  squad  leaders.  Vice 
President  George  Bush  personally  visited  San  Salvador,  however, 
to  deliver  the  more  decisive  message  that  aid  would  be  cut  off  if 
the  abuses  did  not  stop.  The  United  States  specifically  asked  for 
a  halt  to  secret  arrests  by  the  three  security  forces  and  demonstra- 
ble progress  in  the  court  cases  involving  the  murders  of  the  church- 
women and  the  AIFLD  advisers. 

In  response,  senior  Salvadoran  officials  and  the  armed  forces 
leadership  pledged  a  major  crackdown  on  right-wing  death  squad 
activity  and  asked  the  United  States  for  technical  and  investigative 


235 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

assistance  in  dealing  with  these  groups.  The  Salvadoran  Army  also 
quietly  dismissed  or  transferred  abroad  the  officers  whose  names 
were  on  the  United  States  list  of  suspects.  In  addition,  the  PN 
arrested  a  captain  who  had  been  linked  to  the  murder  of  the  two 
AIFLD  advisers,  but  he  was  held  on  charges  unrelated  to  the 
killings. 

Despite  these  actions,  the  existence  of  the  death  squads  remained 
a  controversial  issue  in  the  United  States  in  the  late  1980s.  In  con- 
gressional testimony  in  February  1984,  former  United  States  am- 
bassador to  El  Salvador  Robert  E.  White  identified  six  wealthy 
Salvadoran  landowners,  then  living  in  exile  in  Miami,  as  the  prin- 
cipal financiers  of  the  death  squads.  Critics  of  the  Reagan  adminis- 
tration's Salvadoran  policy  also  alleged  that  the  United  States  had 
indirectly  supported  the  death  squads.  After  a  six-month  investi- 
gation, however,  the  United  States  Senate  Select  Committee  on 
Intelligence  reported  in  October  1984  that  there  was  no  evidence 
to  support  such  allegations. 

In  1984  and  1985,  Duarte  transferred  to  lesser  positions  several 
military  officers  with  alleged  links  to  death  squads.  During  the 
1984-88  period,  the  civilian  government  and  armed  forces  reiter- 
ated their  opposition  to  death  squad  activity  and  their  commitment 
to  dealing  with  the  problem.  As  a  result,  death  squad  killings 
declined  sharply.  According  to  Tutela  Legal,  the  annual  totals  of 
death  squad  killings  were  225  in  1984,  136  in  1985,  45  in  1986, 
and  24  in  1987.  Although  violence  continued  to  be  endemic  in  El 
Salvador,  the  number  of  politically  motivated  deaths  reported  in 
the  Salvadoran  press  averaged  28  per  month  during  the  first  half 
of  1987,  as  compared  with  64  in  1984  and  140  in  1983.  These  figures 
probably  were  inexact,  but  they  indicated  a  general  downward 
trend.  Of  the  183  political  murders  reported  in  the  local  press  dur- 
ing the  first  nine  months  of  1987,  most  were  attributed  to  the 
FMLN;  only  2  were  blamed  on  the  extreme  right  and  5  on  mili- 
tary personnel. 

Death  squad  activities  began  to  pick  up,  however,  in  late  1987 
after  the  signing  of  the  Central  American  Peace  Agreement.  The 
number  of  right-wing  death  squad  killings  reportedly  continued 
to  creep  upward  in  1988.  According  to  Tutela  Legal,  suspected 
right-wing  death  squads  killed  thirty-two  civilians  during  the  first 
half  of  1988. 

Left-Wing  Extremism 

Background  to  the  Insurgency 

The  FMLN  insurgency  was  rooted  in  the  1960s  when  reform- 
minded  groups  emerged  to  challenge  the  alliance  of  the  right-wing 


236 


National  Security 


military  and  the  landowning  oligarchy.  With  the  electoral  option 
blocked  by  fraudulent  presidential  elections  in  1972  and  1977,  leftist 
groups  resorted  to  militant  demonstrations  and  terrorism  to  pro- 
mote change.  A  pattern  of  mounting  violence  and  polarization 
resulted  (see  The  1970s:  The  Road  to  Revolt,  ch.  1).  As  in  the 
early  1930s,  the  growing  conflict  had  focused  on  the  peasant  popu- 
lation; most  campesinos  still  lived  at  a  subsistence  level,  and  about 
two-fifths  of  rural  families  had  no  land  at  all  (see  Rural  Life,  ch.  2). 
The  regime's  token  land  reform  of  1976  did  little  to  address  this 
longstanding  problem.  Political  violence  and  the  suspension  of  rights 
through  the  declaration  of  states  of  siege  only  served  to  further 
radicalize  the  left,  including  the  Catholic  groups  increasingly  in- 
fluenced by  liberation  theology  (see  Glossary). 

The  Salvadoran  guerrilla  groups  that  emerged  in  the  1970s 
derived  directly  or  indirectly  from  a  1969  split  within  the  illegal, 
Moscow-line  Communist  Party  of  El  Salvador  (Partido  Comunista 
de  El  Salvador — PCES)  between  the  old-line  Communists  and  a 
vocal  minority  faction  of  firebrand  revolutionaries  led  by  PCES 
secretary  general  Salvador  Cayetano  Carpio  ("Marcial").  In  April 
1970,  Carpio  and  his  followers  broke  away  from  the  PCES  and 
founded  the  Popular  Liberation  Forces  (Fuerzas  Populares  de 
Liberation — FPL).  Under  Carpio 's  leadership,  the  FPL  advocated 
doctrinaire  adherence  to  a  Vietnamese-style  "prolonged  popular 
war"  strategy  against  ''imperialism"  and  the  Salvadoran  oligar- 
chy. During  the  FPL's  formative  years,  the  National  University 
in  San  Salvador  was  the  largest  urban  center  for  recruiting  and 
training  members  of  the  FPL  and  its  mass  organization,  the  Revolu- 
tionary Popular  Bloc  (Bloque  Popular  Revolucionario — BPR).  With 
the  aid  of  the  clergy,  the  FPL  recruited  its  cadres  mostly  from  the 
National  Association  of  Salvadoran  Educators  (Asociacion  Nacional 
de  Educadores  Salvadorenos — ANDES)  and  its  rank-and-file 
mainly  from  the  Federation  of  Salvadoran  Christian  Peasants  (Fed- 
eration de  Campesinos  Cristianos  Salvadorenos — Feccas)  and  the 
Union  of  Farm  Workers  (Union  de  Trabaj adores  del  Campo — 
UTC). 

In  1971  another  group  of  PCES  dissidents,  disenchanted  with 
the  FPL's  strategy  of  a  prolonged  popular  war,  left  the  party  and 
joined  with  dissident  students,  religious  activists,  and  PDC  members 
to  form  the  People's  Revolutionary  Army  (Ejercito  Revolucionario 
del  Pueblo— ERP).  The  ERP's  "militarist"  faction,  headed  by 
Joaquin  Villalobos  Hueso  ("Rene  Cruz"),  contended  that 
Sandinista-style  popular  insurrection  could  be  sparked  by  dramatic 
armed  attacks  on  the  existing  power  structure.  The  ERP's  "polit- 
ical" faction,  led  by  Roque  Dalton,  a  communist  Salvadoran  poet, 


237 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

emphasized  the  ideological  preparation  of  the  masses  before  under- 
taking major  armed  actions  and  the  development  of  broad  coali- 
tions with  other  groups.  After  the  Villalobos  group  passed  death 
sentences  on  Dalton's  followers,  Villalobos  reportedly  murdered 
Dalton  on  May  10,  1975. 

Under  the  leadership  of  Villalobos,  the  ERP  advocated  a  strongly 
pro-Cuban,  Marxist-Leninist  ideology  based  on  Ernesto  ''Che" 
Guevara's  foco,  or  insurrectional  center,  theory  of  guerrilla  warfare, 
as  well  as  Maoist  and  West  European  revolutionary  theories.  Most 
of  the  ERP's  cadres  were  of  middle-class  background,  mainly 
university  dropouts  or  professionals.  They  included  considerably 
more  women  and  foreigners  than  the  other  guerrilla  groups.  A  lead- 
ing ERP  field  commander,  Ana  Guadalupe  Martinez,  author  of 
the  propagandistic  El  Salvador's  Clandestine  Prisons,  served  as  a  main 
spokesperson  on  international  affairs  for  the  Revolutionary 
Democratic  Front  (Frente  Democratico  Revolucionario — FDR). 
Some  cadres  had  radical  Christian  backgrounds.  Rank-and-file  ele- 
ments generally  were  workers  but  also  included  some  forcibly 
recruited  peasants.  Although  the  PCES  and  the  other  guerrilla 
groups  that  formed  the  FMLN  in  1980  initially  ostracized  the  ERP, 
Cuban  leader  Fidel  Castro  Ruz  pressured  the  FMLN  groups  into 
including  the  ERP  in  the  alliance. 

Immediately  after  Dalton's  murder,  his  followers  broke  away 
from  the  ERP  and  established  the  Armed  Forces  of  National 
Resistance  (Fuerzas  Armadas  de  Resistencia  Nacional — FARN). 
The  FARN  originated  at  the  National  University,  and  most  of  its 
cadres  came  from  the  middle  class.  Although  led  by  a  self-described 
Marxist,  Eduardo  Sancho  Castaneda  ("Ferman  Cienfuegos"),  the 
FARN  developed  close  ties  internationally  with  moderate  social 
democrats  and  domestically  with  liberal  members  of  the  Salvado- 
ran  armed  forces.  On  February  2,  1977,  FARN  and  PCES  dissi- 
dents, together  with  Salvadoran  exiles  living  in  Costa  Rica,  formed 
a  Salvadoran  branch  of  a  Trotskyite  regional  organization  called 
the  Revolutionary  Party  of  Central  American  Workers  (Partido 
Revolucionario  de  Trabajadores  Centroamericanos — PRTC).  The 
PRTC  recruited  primarily  from  the  National  University  in  San 
Salvador,  which  PRTC  leader  Francisco  Jovel  ("Roberto  Roca") 
had  attended,  and  from  the  labor  unions.  Although  the  PRTC 
initially  had  a  reputation  for  unpredictable  radicalism  and  close 
ties  to  the  Democratic  People's  Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea), 
it  moved  toward  more  orthodox  Marxism-Leninism  after  joining 
the  FMLN  in  December  1980.  Nevertheless,  it  continued  to  advo- 
cate a  nonaligned  international  stance. 


238 


National  Security 


The  PCES,  under  its  new  leader,  Jorge  Shafik  Handal,  followed 
the  Moscow  line  in  the  1970s,  supporting  reformist,  noncommunist 
governments  and  an  electoral  strategy.  At  its  April  1979  party  con- 
gress, however,  the  PCES,  which  already  had  begun  organizing 
its  own  guerrilla  group,  the  Armed  Forces  of  Liberation  (Fuerzas 
Armadas  de  Liberacion — FAL),  adopted  an  '  'armed  struggle" 
policy.  While  serving  in  the  reformist  government  that  came  to 
power  in  a  civil-military  coup  in  October  1979,  the  PCES  continued 
to  prepare  for  guerrilla  and  terrorist  activities  by  sending  its  recruits 
to  training  camps  in  the  Soviet  Union,  Eastern  Europe,  Cuba,  and 
Nicaragua.  Although  commanded  exclusively  by  PCES  cadres, 
FAL  was  made  up  mostly,  not  of  party  members,  but  of  rural-based 
guerrillas  who  had  been  gradually  indoctrinated  into  serving  as 
PCES  followers.  By  the  late  1970s,  the  PCES  consisted  primarily 
of  middle-class  elements  and  cadres  of  some  workers'  organizations. 
Although  Handal  espoused  a  "dialectical  combination"  of  the 
ERP's  insurrectional  approach  and  the  FPL's  protracted  popular 
war  strategy,  he  remained  more  oriented  toward  the  ERP. 

During  the  1977-79  period,  the  left-wing  mass  organizations  con- 
ducted a  campaign  of  civil  disobedience,  demonstrations,  and 
takeovers  of  churches,  government  buildings,  and  foreign  embas- 
sies. Much  of  this  activity  was  perpetrated  by  the  three  largest  mass 
organizations— the  FPL's  BPR,  the  FARN's  United  Popular  Action 
Front  (Frente  de  Action  Popular  Unidad — FAPU),  and  the  ERP's 
28th  of  February  Popular  Leagues  (Ligas  Populares  28  de 
Febrero — LP-28).  At  the  same  time,  the  extreme  left  engaged  in 
numerous  significant  acts  of  terrorism,  such  as  the  kidnapping  of 
foreign  businessmen  for  fund-raising  purposes,  political  kidnap- 
pings, assassinations,  and  bombings.  The  FARN  specialized  in  kid- 
napping and  claimed  to  have  raised  US$60  million  in  ransoms  in 
the  late  1970s. 

Most  of  the  mass  organizations  rejected  talks  with  the  reformist 
junta  that  took  power  in  January  1980.  Instead,  they  consolidated 
their  forces  by  forming  the  Revolutionary  Coordinator  of  the  Masses 
(Coordinadora  Revolucionaria  de  las  Masas — CRM)  at  the  same 
time  that  the  armed  left  increased  its  own  efforts  at  greater  coordi- 
nation. In  April  1980,  the  CRM  allied  itself  with  the  Democratic 
Front  (Frente  Democratico) — an  alliance  consisting  of  disaffected 
Christian  Democrats,  Social  Democrats  led  by  Guillermo  Manuel 
Ungo  Revelo,  and  a  small  association  of  professionals.  The  merger 
of  these  two  umbrella  organizations  created  the  FDR,  which  recog- 
nized the  guerrilla  movement  as  its  "vanguard."  Although  the 
Romero  assassination  enabled  the  FDR,  through  the  mass  organi- 
zations, to  mobilize  tens  of  thousands  of  demonstrators  in  the  spring 


239 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


of  1980,  the  overall  movement  was  hampered  by  a  lack  of  arms, 
poor  coordination  between  guerrilla  and  noncombatant  forces,  con- 
tinued infighting,  and  severe  repression  by  the  security  forces. 

In  May  1980,  the  guerrilla  leaders  met  in  Havana  and  formed 
a  political-military  command,  the  Unified  Revolutionary  Direc- 
torate (Direction  Revolucionaria  Unificada — DRU),  as  their  central 
executive  arm  for  political  and  military  planning.  Unification  of 
forces  reportedly  was  a  precondition  for  Cuban  aid  to  the  Salvado- 
ran  insurgents.  The  DRU  established  its  headquarters  near 
Managua  and  helped  to  direct  planning  and  operations  and  coor- 
dinate logistical  support  for  its  forces  in  El  Salvador.  The  fifteen- 
member  DRU  included  three  leaders  from  each  of  the  five  guer- 
rilla groups:  the  ERP,  FPL,  FARN,  FAL/PCES,  and,  beginning 
in  late  1980,  the  PRTC.  The  DRU  also  included  a  five-member 
executive  directorate,  known  as  the  General  Command,  consist- 
ing of  the  principal  leaders  of  the  five  guerrilla  groups:  the  ERP's 
Villalobos  (the  first  among  equals  of  the  FMLN  commanders),  the 
FPL's  Leonel  Gonzalez,  the  FARN's  Sancho,  the  PRTC's  Fran- 
cisco Jovel,  and  the  FAL/PCES's  Handal. 

The  guerrilla  groups  took  a  step  toward  closer  unity  in  October 
1980  by  forming  the  Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation  Front 
(Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de  Liberation  Nacional-Frente  Demo- 
cratic© Revolucionario — FMLN-FDR),  which  constituted  an  um- 
brella entity  or  alliance  for  operational  and  strategic  coordination 
among  the  insurgent  forces  and  their  popular  fronts.  The  FMLN 
had  a  leadership  structure  (DRU),  a  regional  military  organization 
(five  guerrilla  fronts),  and  a  political-diplomatic  front  (the  FDR). 
A  self-described  Marxist- Leninist  movement  with  a  generally  pro- 
Soviet  and  pro-Cuban  orientation,  the  FMLN-FDR  committed 
itself  to  seizing  power  through  a  two-pronged  military  strategy  of 
economic  sabotage  and  a  prolonged  guerrilla  war  of  attrition  based 
on  a  combination  of  Maoist,  Vietnamese,  and  Guevarist  princi- 
ples. It  sought  to  entrench  its  rural  guerrilla  forces  while  develop- 
ing urban  support  bases  in  preparation  for  an  eventual  general 
insurrection.  During  the  1980-82  period,  politically  related  vio- 
lence in  El  Salvador  increased  dramatically  as  the  former  terrorist 
groups  completed  their  transition  to  primarily  guerrilla  organi- 
zations. 

In  preparation  for  the  FMLN's  "final  offensive"  of  January  1981 
(the  name  of  which  seemed  to  contradict  the  FPL's  long-term  stra- 
tegy), tons  of  modern  weapons,  primarily  United  States-made  arms 
from  captured  stockpiles  in  Vietnam,  were  delivered  covertly  to 
guerrilla  forces  in  El  Salvador,  mostly  through  Cuba  and  Nicaragua. 
Despite  the  substantial  weapons  deliveries,  the  1981  offensive  failed 


240 


National  Security 


in  its  effort  to  incite  a  countrywide  insurrection;  the  FMLN  had 
greatly  overestimated  its  popular  support  and  the  efficiency  of  its 
outside  supply  system.  Salvadoran  military  and  security  forces, 
operating  with  minimal  United  States  assistance  (military  aid  had 
been  suspended  until  then),  beat  back  the  offensive  after  about  ten 
days  of  combat.  The  vast  majority  of  Salvadorans  ignored  the 
FMLN's  call  for  an  uprising,  much  to  the  chagrin  of  guerrilla 
strategists.  The  FMLN  tried  and  failed  again  to  defeat  the  army 
in  a  general  offensive  in  early  1982.  After  these  setbacks,  however, 
the  five  FMLN  groups  worked  to  increase  their  strategic  and  tac- 
tical coordination  and  made  substantial  progress  during  1982  in 
overcoming  logistical  and  communications  problems.  They  began 
to  equip  their  forces  increasingly  with  United  States-made  weapons 
and  equipment  captured  from  the  army  or  purchased  in  the  inter- 
national gray  arms  market.  In  addition,  United  States  officials 
maintained  that  Nicaraguan  supplies  for  the  FMLN  continued  to 
be  sent  by  sea,  air,  and  land  to  El  Salvador  almost  daily. 

The  FMLN  overcame  major  factional  disputes  during  1983.  At 
a  January  1983  meeting  of  the  FPL's  Central  Committee,  the  doc- 
trinaire line  of  Carpio,  a  long-time  opponent  of  close  cooperation 
with  other  FMLN  groups,  reportedly  was  voted  down  in  favor  of 
greater  FMLN  unity  of  action,  as  advocated  by  another  senior  FPL 
leader,  Ana  Melinda  Montes  ("Ana  Maria").  Nevertheless,  the 
existence  of  a  continuing  deep  division  over  policy  within  the  guer- 
rilla forces  was  revealed  in  April  1983  by  the  bizarre  murder  and 
suicide,  respectively,  in  Managua  of  Carpio  and  Montes.  The 
deaths  weakened  the  FPL's  influence  in  the  FMLN  in  favor  of  the 
ERP,  whose  leader,  Villalobos,  had  long  advocated  greater  oper- 
ational cooperation.  In  September  1983,  however,  the  long-standing 
policy  dispute  within  the  FPL  eased  substantially  with  the  consoli- 
dation of  a  position  emphasizing  unity  with  other  FMLN  groups 
and  openness  toward  cooperation  with  outside  groups.  The  FPL's 
policy  shift  reduced  friction  with  the  FMLN's  four  other  military 
factions  and  with  Nicaragua's  ruling  Sandinista  National  Libera- 
tion Front  (Frente  Sandinista  de  Liberation  Nacional — FSLN). 
Furthermore,  the  FPL,  which  previously  had  operated  largely  in- 
dependently of  other  FMLN  groups,  formally  agreed  to  cooperate 
in  a  centralized  military  command  (the  DRU). 

The  relatively  united  FMLN  again  went  on  the  offensive  that 
September  and  decisively  escalated  the  war  from  company-  to 
battalion-level  guerrilla  combat,  involving  as  many  as  500  guer- 
rillas in  an  offensive.  Over  the  next  five  years,  the  conflict  remained 
a  military  stalemate.  The  FMLN  established  a  sophisticated  in- 
ternal communications  system  linking  its  fronts  and  became — 


241 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


allegedly  with  Cuban  and  Nicaraguan  assistance — better  trained 
and  armed.  The  organization,  which  by  1984  reportedly  was  receiv- 
ing mostly  ammunition,  not  weapons,  from  Nicaragua,  also 
achieved  important  military  tactical  successes.  By  early  1984,  the 
Salvadoran  Army  held  less  than  a  four-to-one  advantage  over  a 
guerrilla  force  of  at  least  9,000  combatants,  down  from  10,000  to 
12,000  in  1983  (military  tacticians  usually  consider  a  ten- to-one 
advantage  the  minimum  necessary  to  defeat  a  guerrilla  insurgency). 

Some  commentators  opined  that  the  insurgents  had  failed  deci- 
sively by  the  end  of  1984  and  that  the  war  was  winding  down.  The 
FMLN  was  put  on  the  defensive  in  1984  and  1985  when  substan- 
tial United  States  military  aid  was  rushed  in  and  the  Salvadoran 
Army  expanded  rapidly.  Under  heavy  pressure  in  the  rural  area 
it  once  dominated,  the  FMLN  committed  itself  to  a  new  long-term 
strategy  and  began  rebuilding  its  political  bases — peasant,  labor, 
and  student  militant  groups — in  cities  and  towns.  Many  guerril- 
las hid  their  weapons  and  moved  into  San  Salvador.  By  mid- 1985 
the  FMLN  had  adapted  to  the  army's  new  tactics  and  capabilities 
by  breaking  down  its  large  guerrilla  columns  into  smaller  squads 
assigned  to  ambush  and  sabotage  government  targets.  By  late 
December  1985,  the  number  of  guerrillas  dropped  to  between  5,000 
and  7,000,  of  which  at  least  2,000  remained  active  in  the  rural  areas. 

The  FMLN  also  reverted  to  classic  guerrilla  tactics  and  increased 
its  use  of  land  mines,  which  it  called  "popular  armament."  In 
mid- 1985  the  FMLN,  in  addition  to  kidnapping  or  assassinating 
numerous  military  and  government  officials,  began  kidnapping  and 
assassinating  mayors  and  burning  their  offices.  It  also  targeted 
United  States  military  personnel  for  assassination.  In  June  1985, 
PRTC  terrorists  assassinated  four  off-duty  United  States  embassy 
Marine  guards  at  a  sidewalk  cafe  in  San  Salvador  in  a  massacre 
that  also  left  nine  civilians,  including  two  United  States  business- 
men, dead  and  fifteen  others  wounded.  According  to  the  FMLN 
high  command,  the  chief  purpose  of  its  raid  on  the  army's  basic 
training  center  in  eastern  La  Union  Department  in  October  1985 
was  to  kill  or  capture  United  States  soldiers  serving  there. 

Insurgent  Organization 

Although  the  FMLN  continued  to  suffer  from  long-standing  sec- 
tarian rivalries,  the  FMLN  groups — with  Cuban  training  and  other 
assistance — reorganized  during  1983.  The  FMLN  divided  the  coun- 
try into  five  war  fronts:  the  Feliciano  Amo  Western  Front  (cover- 
ing Ahuachapan,  La  Libertad,  Santa  Ana,  and  Sonsonate 
departments),  Modesto  Ramirez  Central  Front  (including  Cuscat- 
lan,  San  Salvador,  and  parts  of  Cabanas  and  La  Paz  departments), 


242 


Damage  to  Fourth  Infantry  Brigade  compound  from  guerrilla  attack, 
El  Paraiso,  Chalatenango  Department,  December  1983 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

Anastasio  Aquino  Paracentral  Front  (comprising  parts  of  Cabanas 
and  La  Paz  departments,  as  well  as  San  Vicente  Department),  Fran- 
cisco Sanchez  Eastern  Front  (covering  La  Union,  Morazan,  San 
Miguel,  and  Usulutan  departments),  and  Apolinario  Serrano 
Northern  Front  (consisting  of  Chalatenango  Department). 

The  individual  FMLN  groups  each  claimed  traditional  areas  of 
operation  and  influence  within  the  five  FMLN  fronts  and  were 
organized  on  Marxist-Leninist  structures.  The  ERP,  which  had 
a  Marxist-Leninist  political  front,  the  Party  of  the  Salvadoran 
Revolution  (Partido  de  la  Revolucion  Salvadorefia — PRS),  was  a 
particularly  well- organized  group.  Directed  by  its  nine-member  gen- 
eral command,  the  ERP's  principal  force  was  the  Rafael  Arce 
Zablah  Brigade  (Brigada  Rafael  Arce  Zablah — BRAZ),  which  oper- 
ated on  the  Francisco  Sanchez  Eastern  Front.  The  BRAZ  was  sub- 
divided into  two  groups  consisting  of  several  battalions.  The  FPL 
operated  on  the  northern,  central,  and  western  fronts.  Directed 
by  a  general  command,  composed  of  more  than  twenty-five 
commanders,  the  FPL's  leadership  structure  also  included  a  revolu- 
tionary council,  a  central  committee,  and  a  political  commis- 
sion. The  FPL's  complex  military  structure  was  also  collectively 
known  as  the  Popular  Army  of  Liberation  (Ejercito  Popular  de 
Liberacion — EPL).  Virtually  indistinguishable  from  the  FPL,  the 


243 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

EPL  was  composed  of  elite  "vanguard  units,"  less  skilled  "guer- 
rilla columns,"  and  the  "urban  front"  commando  groups  in  the 
cities. 

Based  primarily  in  the  area  of  Guazapa  Volcano,  the  FARN 
served  as  the  military  apparatus  of  the  National  Resistance 
(Resistencia  Nacional — RN)  party,  a  Marxist-Leninist  political 
front  whose  secretary  general  and  second  in  command  constituted 
the  FARN's  general  military  command.  The  PRTC  operated  with 
other  FMLN  groups  through  its  armed  wing,  the  Revolutionary 
Armed  Forces  of  Popular  Liberation  (Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolu- 
cionarias  de  Liberacion  Popular — FARLP).  In  addition  to  its  rural 
forces,  the  PRTC  had  a  San  Salvador-based  terrorist  apparatus 
called  the  Mardoqueo  Cruz  Urban  Guerrilla  Commando.  The 
PCES  military  wing,  the  FAL,  also  reportedly  was  based  at 
Guazapa  Volcano,  but  its  principal  rural  guerrilla  force  operated 
mainly  in  northern  and  central  El  Salvador.  Although  Handal  com- 
manded the  FAL,  it  also  had  an  operational  commander. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  rebels  were  still  operating  in  small  units, 
avoiding  confrontations  with  the  army  except  on  their  own  terms, 
and  emphasizing  hit-and-run  attacks  mainly  against  economic  tar- 
gets. In  1986  FMLN  attacks  on  the  economy  increased  by  29  per- 
cent. The  eastern  region  of  El  Salvador,  the  FMLN's  main  area 
of  operations,  suffered  the  brunt  of  the  sabotage  campaign.  The 
FMLN  facilitated  its  operations  in  El  Salvador  by  using  as  sanc- 
tuaries demilitarized  border  zones  (bolsones),  such  as  north  of  the 
Torola-Jocoaitique  line  in  northern  Morazan  Department. 

One  of  the  FMLN's  prime  objectives  was  to  sabotage  the  coun- 
try's economic  infrastructure  by  attacking  systematically  such  tar- 
gets as  bridges,  the  power  grid,  and  communications  equipment. 
Guerrilla  forces  also  disrupted  the  transportation  system  by  paralyz- 
ing road  traffic  every  month  or  two.  The  intimidation  of  private 
investors  through  threats,  "war  taxes,"  kidnapping,  and  armed 
attacks  on  their  business  premises  was  another  aspect  of  this  stra- 
tegy, as  was  the  infiltration  of  labor  unions  in  an  effort  to  promote 
unrest.  Guerrilla  sabotage  and  indirect  economic  losses  caused  by 
the  war  amounted  to  nearly  US$2  billion  during  1979-88,  more 
than  the  total  amount  of  United  States  economic  assistance  provided 
the  country  during  the  same  period.  Salvadoran  officials  reported 
that  2,477  attacks  on  the  country's  energy  grid  in  the  1980-87  period 
destroyed  654  primary  and  secondary  distribution  lines,  costing 
US$51  million  to  repair. 

Peace  Talks 

In  1983  the  interim  government,  led  by  Magana,  created  a  Peace 
Commission  and  began  meeting  privately  with  FMLN-FDR 


244 


National  Security 


representatives.  Continued  military  stalemate  led  to  direct  public 
talks  for  the  first  time  between  the  government  and  the  FMLN- 
FDR  in  the  town  of  La  Palma  on  October  15,  1984.  Duarte  and 
Vides,  representing  the  government  at  the  talks,  offered  an  am- 
nesty to  any  guerrillas  who  laid  down  their  arms  and  urged  them 
to  participate  in  the  elections  that  year.  The  two  parties  reached 
some  agreements  on  the  conduct  of  the  war  and  the  evacuation 
of  guerrilla  prisoners,  but  they  made  no  progress  toward  achiev- 
ing a  negotiated  solution  to  the  insurgency.  The  FMLN-FDR 
restated  its  longstanding  demands.  It  wanted  a  power-sharing  ar- 
rangement whereby  a  certain  number  of  its  representatives  would 
be  included  in  an  interim  government  to  be  established  before  the 
holding  of  elections,  and  it  wanted  to  maintain  its  own  armed  forces 
after  the  cessation  of  active  hostilities.  The  guerrilla  representa- 
tives insisted  that  these  were  nonnegotiable  elements  of  their  po- 
sition. 

The  Duarte  government  lost  the  initiative  in  the  war  in  part  as 
a  result  of  the  FMLN's  kidnapping  in  September  1985  of  the  presi- 
dent's daughter,  Ines  Guadalupe  Duarte  Duran,  an  action  that  to- 
tally preoccupied  Duarte  and  virtually  paralyzed  his  government 
for  almost  two  months.  Duarte  lost  considerable  influence  and  credi- 
bility with  the  military  and  the  public  by  ignoring  El  Salvador's 
policy  against  complying  with  the  demands  of  kidnappers  and 
releasing  126  FMLN  prisoners  in  exchange  for  his  daughter  and 
33  municipal  officials  (mainly  mayors)  previously  taken  hostage 
by  the  guerrillas.  The  agreement  did  not  include  a  monetary  ran- 
som. Although  the  FMLN  pledged  as  part  of  the  agreement  not 
to  kidnap  relatives  of  government  officials,  it  verbally  reneged  on 
this  promise  a  few  months  later. 

The  FMLN-FDR  took  advantage  of  Duarte 's  political  weak- 
ness by  rejecting  his  amnesty  offer  at  the  second  meeting,  held  at 
Ayagualo,  on  November  30,  1985.  The  rebels  countered  with  a 
tough  three-phase  peace  plan  calling  for  the  creation  of  a  new,  tran- 
sitional government  of  national  consensus,  with  FMLN-FDR  par- 
ticipation, that  would  hold  national  elections.  Bitter  over  his 
daughter's  kidnapping,  Duarte  postponed  the  scheduled  third  round 
of  talks  and  rejected  the  FMLN  proposal  as  contrary  to  the  1983 
Constitution. 

The  FMLN  boycotted  the  session  scheduled  for  September  1 986 
in  the  Salvadoran  town  of  Sesori  after  the  government  refused  an 
FMLN  demand  that  army  troops  be  cleared  out  of  a  650-square- 
kilometer  area  around  the  meeting  place.  Between  the  breakdown 
of  the  Sesori  dialogue  and  the  signing  of  the  Central  American  Peace 
Agreement  in  August  1987,  no  formal  talks  were  held  for  the 


245 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

purpose  of  achieving  a  negotiated  solution  between  the  FMLN  and 
the  government. 

Some  observers  characterized  the  FMLN-FDR's  proposals  made 
in  May  1987  as  a  formula  for  the  "Cubanization"  of  El  Salvador, 
citing  the  rebels'  demands  for  nonalignment;  formation  of  an  ex- 
traconstitutional  transitional  government,  without  elections,  to  in- 
clude members  of  the  FMLN-FDR;  maintenance  of  guerrilla 
armed  forces  until  the  government  was  reorganized;  imposition  of 
a  socialist  economy;  dismantling  of  the  police  forces;  and  non- 
intervention of  foreign  governments.  Duarte  rejected  the  proposal 
in  a  May  1987  speech,  calling  it  a  formula  to  weaken  the  govern- 
ment militarily  and  politically. 

There  was  no  further  movement  on  dialogue  until  the  five  Cen- 
tral American  presidents,  at  the  initiative  of  Costa  Rican  presi- 
dent Oscar  Arias  Sanchez,  met  in  Guatemala  in  early  August  1987 
and  signed  the  Central  American  Peace  Agreement,  charting  a 
peaceful  resolution  of  regional  conflicts  through  national  reconcili- 
ation, cease-fires,  democratization,  and  free  elections  (see  The  Crisis 
in  Central  America,  ch.  4).  Although  the  so-called  Arias  plan  did 
not  require  dialogue  with  armed  insurgent  groups  unless  they  ac- 
cepted amnesty,  the  Duarte  government  called  on  the  FMLN- 
FDR  leaders  to  accept  the  peace  plan  as  the  framework  for  negoti- 
ations and  dialogue.  Duarte  also  persuaded  the  military  High  Com- 
mand to  endorse  the  Central  American  peace  document,  although 
several  officers  voiced  doubts  about  it.  Guided  by  the  agreement, 
Duarte  reopened  a  dialogue  with  the  guerrillas,  promulgated  a 
broad  amnesty,  ordered  the  military  to  undertake  a  unilateral  cease- 
fire after  the  FMLN  broke  off  cease-fire  talks,  and  permitted  the 
self-exiled  FDR  leaders — Ruben  Zamora  Rivas  and  Ungo — to 
return  to  El  Salvador. 

In  early  October  1987,  two  days  of  talks  were  held  between 
government  and  rebel  leaders.  The  representatives — who  included 
President  Duarte,  four  FMLN  military  commanders,  and  four  FDR 
leaders — agreed  to  establish  two  commissions  that  would  include 
government  and  rebel  leaders,  one  commission  responsible  for 
negotiating  a  cease-fire,  the  other  for  addressing  other  measures 
of  the  peace  plan.  A  second  round  of  talks,  held  in  Caracas  on 
October  22,  became  deadlocked,  with  the  participants  merely  pledg- 
ing to  continue  the  dialogue  in  Mexico  City.  The  FMLN  subse- 
quently suspended  the  Mexico  City  dialogue,  however,  and 
unilateral  cease-fires  in  November  1987  were  unsuccessful.  The 
guerrillas  continued  to  demand  a  power- sharing  arrangement  and 
the  maintenance  of  their  own  military  force  as  conditions  for  a 
settlement.  Rejecting  a  cease-fire,  the  FMLN-FDR  proposed  a 


246 


National  Security 


"moratorium"  on  arms  deliveries,  an  end  to  recruitment  on  both 
sides,  and  the  withdrawal  of  foreign  military  advisers.  According 
to  United  States  press  reports,  however,  the  FMLN  agreed  at  top- 
level  FMLN-FDR  meetings  held  in  Managua  in  July  1988  not 
to  oppose  the  FDR's  participation  in  the  1989  presidential  elec- 
tions. The  FMLN  escalated  its  military  and  terrorist  activities  in 
the  San  Salvador  area  in  the  fall  of  1988  and  commenced  a  policy 
of  seeking  to  cause  civilian  casualties  by  these  actions.  The  FMLN 
also  embarked  on  a  campaign  to  assassinate  democratically  elected 
mayors.  The  guerrillas  executed  seven  serving  mayors,  one  former 
mayor,  and  one  government  official  between  March  and  Novem- 
ber 1988.  They  threatened  to  kill  more  than  twenty  others. 

Counterinsurgency  Tactics 

Initially,  the  army  used  conventional  warfare  tactics  against  the 
insurgents.  It  typically  would  rely  on  massive  frontal  assaults  or 
sweeps  against  guerrilla  positions.  These  operations  were  less  risky 
than  the  small-unit  tactics  urged  by  United  States  advisers  but  were 
ineffective  against  the  more  mobile  guerrilla  units,  which  easily 
evaded  the  army  forces.  At  nightfall,  the  army  invariably  returned 
to  the  safety  of  its  garrisons  instead  of  pursuing  the  insurgents. 
Although  army  troops  sometimes  retook  towns  previously  held  by 
guerrillas,  the  army  usually  withdrew  after  a  short  stay,  and  FMLN 
forces  returned. 

United  States  military  assistance  helped  to  transform  the  army 
into  a  more  capable  force.  During  the  second  part  of  1982,  the  Sal- 
vadoran  government  began  deploying  United  States-trained  and 
United  States-equipped  "hunter"  counterinsurgency  battalions, 
consisting  of  220  members.  "Hunter"  tactics  called  for  operations 
in  highly  mobile  small  units,  carrying  out  night  patrolling  and  night 
attacks  in  place  of  the  army's  ineffective  massed  assaults. 

The  army  was  slow  to  adopt  these  new  tactics  and  largely  con- 
tinued to  conduct  the  war  in  a  lackadaisical  manner.  It  responded 
to  attacks  by  much  larger  FMLN  units  in  1983  by  abandoning  the 
United  States-inspired  concept  of  the  "hunter"  battalions.  It  re- 
placed them  with  the  580-man  Antiterrorist  Infantry  Battalions 
(Batallones  de  Infanteria  Antiterrorista — BIAT)  and  390-man 
Countersubversion  Infantry  Battalions  (Batallones  de  Infanteria 
para  Contrasub version — BIC).  Again,  the  guerrillas  easily  evaded 
these  slow-moving  forces  in  the  field. 

Badly  needed  organizational  changes  resulted  from  the  May  1983 
replacement  of  General  Garcia  by  Vides.  Within  weeks,  Vides's 
new  chief  of  staff  of  the  armed  forces,  Colonel  Blandon,  imple- 
mented United  States-style  organization  and  tactics  in  key  combat 


247 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

units,  adopting  new  counterinsurgency  objectives  of  denying  the 
guerrillas  sanctuary,  movement,  and  supplies.  He  also  announced 
a  20  percent  increase  in  troop  strength  for  1984  to  bring  the  army's 
force  level  to  30,000.  Blandon  adopted  more  aggressive  actions  using 
small,  air-mobile  combat  units.  These  moves  turned  the  war  in 
the  army's  favor,  but  subsequent  adjustments  by  the  FMLN  frus- 
trated government  forces  and  again  stalemated  the  conflict. 

In  mid- 1983  the  army  also  launched  a  United  States-designed 
and  United  States-funded  pacification  program  consisting  of  mili- 
tary sweeps  followed  by  civic  action  programs  designed  to  reduce 
political  violence.  The  army  plan  was  to  coordinate  military  oper- 
ations in  two  eastern  departments  with  government- sponsored  eco- 
nomic development  of  the  area  and  to  establish  local  civil  defense 
and  social  improvement  programs.  The  persistent  army  presence, 
it  was  thought,  would  keep  the  guerrillas  on  the  move  and  isolate 
them  from  the  civilian  population.  The  first  phase  of  the  program, 
called  Operation  Well-Being  (Operation  Bienestar),  focused  on  San 
Vicente  and  Usulutan  departments,  where  guerrilla  forces  were 
particularly  active.  The  program  called  for  the  organization  of 
paramilitary  networks  and  their  integration  into  the  counterinsur- 
gency operations  of  the  regular  army  and  security  forces.  The  army 
stationed  4,000  troops  in  central  San  Vicente  Department  with  the 
objectives  of  forcing  guerrilla  units  out  of  their  bases  in  the  north- 
ern sector  and  then  establishing  a  buffer  zone  defended  mainly  by 
civil  defense  units. 

In  September  1984,  Colonel  Ochoa,  then  commander  of  the 
Fourth  Infantry  Brigade  in  Chalatenango  Department,  attempted 
a  similar  campaign  to  clear  guerrillas  from  the  two  northern  depart- 
ments of  Chalatenango  and  Cabanas.  Villagers,  however,  believ- 
ing their  safety  depended  on  remaining  neutral,  were  uncooperative. 
By  the  end  of  1985,  the  campaign  had  failed,  largely  because  the 
guerrilla  forces  easily  evaded  the  army  troops  and  then  frustrated 
implementation  of  civic  action  programs. 

Frustrated  at  its  failure  to  defeat  the  FMLN  after  five  years  of 
fighting,  the  army  reportedly  turned  increasingly  to  the  forced  relo- 
cation of  the  rebels'  civilian  supporters,  particularly  in  the  Guazapa 
Volcano  area  some  twenty  kilometers  north  of  San  Salvador,  in 
northern  Chalatenango  Department,  and  in  the  eastern  depart- 
ments. The  Ministry  of  Interior's  National  Commission  to  Assist 
the  Displaced  Persons  of  El  Salvador  (Comision  Nacional  de  Asisten- 
cia  a  los  Desplazadas  de  El  Salvador — Conades)  reported  in  July 
1985  that  412,000  of  El  Salvador's  population  of  about  5  million 
had  been  displaced  from  their  homes  by  the  war  since  1981. 
According  to  some  estimates,  an  additional  500,000  had  left  the 


248 


Army  civic  action  program,  El  Paisnal,  San  Salvador  Department 

Courtesy  Ana  B.  Monies 


249 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

country  altogether.  Although  army  officers  suggested  that  the 
government's  main  concern  was  to  deprive  the  rebels  of  political 
and  logistical  support,  Duarte  claimed  that  the  new  policy  was 
designed  to  ensure  the  safety  of  civilians. 

In  October  1986,  Blandon  introduced  a  second  United  States- 
financed  pacification  plan,  United  to  Rebuild  (Unidos  para  Recon- 
struir).  In  addition  to  giving  the  military  control  over  repopula- 
tion  and  reconstruction  programs  nationwide,  it  contained  a  public 
relations  element  that  gave  the  military  the  potential  to  build  a  popu- 
lar support  base  of  its  own.  Although  intended  to  reassert  army 
control  and  begin  economic  recuperation  in  war-torn  areas,  it  too 
failed  as  a  result  of  a  lack  of  resources,  incompetence  in  its  im- 
plementation, and  insufficient  cooperation  from  the  population. 

By  mid- 1988,  according  to  some  observers,  the  army  had  be- 
come burdened  by  conventional  tactics,  mediocre  officers,  over- 
reliance  on  air  power,  and  the  need  to  defend  against  economic 
sabotage.  For  example,  fully  a  third  of  the  government's  troops 
were  tied  down  guarding  bridges,  electrical  plants,  and  other  eco- 
nomic targets. 

That  fall  Colonel  Ponce  launched  a  new  counterinsurgency  cam- 
paign in  rebel  territory.  Designed  without  the  assistance  of  United 
States  military  advisers,  it  relied  heavily  on  night  patrols  by  fifteen- 
man  groups  of  highly  trained  commandos.  It  also  took  a  new  ap- 
proach to  civic  action  efforts.  Instead  of  merely  handing  out  sup- 
plies to  villagers,  the  new  campaign,  called  United  to  Work  (Unidos 
para  Trabajar),  put  greater  emphasis  on  forcibly  evicting  left-wing 
community  groups  and  replacing  them  with  new  organizations 
responsible  for  allocating  army  donations  of  food  and  medicine. 
The  army  imposed  two  main  conditions  for  this  aid:  that  the  vil- 
lage establish  a  civil  defense  unit  and  that  it  make  its  young  men 
available  for  conscription.  The  army's  civic  action  efforts  were  not 
reassuring,  however,  to  more  than  7,000  Salvadoran  refugees  who 
had  returned  from  Honduran  camps  since  the  previous  October  to 
abandoned  villages  in  northern  El  Salvador.  Suspicious  of  the  return- 
ing Salvadorans,  the  army  prevented  church  and  other  outside  relief 
workers  from  delivering  supplies  to  them. 

Crime  and  Punishment 
The  Criminal  Justice  System 

Judicial  Ineffectiveness 

El  Salvador's  criminal  justice  system,  which  is  derived  from 
nineteenth-century  Spanish  jurisprudence,  extends  customary 
procedural  safeguards  to  accused  persons.  Under  Article  12  of  the 
1983  Constitution,  any  person  accused  of  a  crime  shall  be  presumed 


250 


National  Security 


innocent  until  proven  guilty  in  conformance  with  the  law  and  in 
a  public  trial.  A  person  who  is  detained  must  be  immediately 
informed  of  his  or  her  rights,  including  the  right  to  an  attorney, 
and  the  reasons  for  the  detention.  Forced  confession  is  prohibited. 
Article  13  prohibits  any  governmental  organ,  authority,  or  func- 
tionary from  dictating  orders  for  the  unlawful  arrest  or  imprison- 
ment of  any  individual.  Furthermore,  arrest  orders  must  always 
be  in  writing.  The  Constitution  also  provides  that  the  periods  for 
administrative  or  investigative  detention  not  exceed  seventy-two 
hours,  during  which  time  the  detainee's  case  must  be  assigned  to 
a  competent  judge.  The  United  States  Department  of  State  reported 
that  this  requirement  was  followed  in  the  great  majority  of  cases 
in  1987.  Americas  Watch,  however,  charged  in  late  1987  that  both 
the  security  forces  and  the  army  had  violated  this  constitutional 
provision. 

In  the  event  of  war,  invasion,  rebellion,  sedition,  catastrophe, 
epidemic,  or  other  general  calamity,  the  constitutional  guarantees 
provided  by  Articles  12  and  13  may  be  suspended  under  Article 
29  for  a  period  not  to  exceed  thirty  days  if  at  least  three-fourths 
of  the  deputies  in  the  Legislative  Assembly  vote  to  do  so  (see  The 
Constitution  of  1983,  ch.  4).  For  example,  the  1986  state  of  siege 
allowed  fifteen  days  of  incommunicado  detention  for  prisoners  de- 
tained for  political  reasons. 

The  constitutional  guarantees  notwithstanding,  El  Salvador's 
criminal  judicial  system  historically  has  been  weak.  For  years  the 
courts  acquitted  the  few  politically  powerful  individuals  who  were 
accused  of  crimes  and  held  dissidents  and  poor  prisoners  in  jail 
without  trial  indefinitely.  The  great  majority  of  offenders  nation- 
wide traditionally  were  laborers,  agricultural  workers,  unemployed 
individuals,  and  skilled  workers.  Well-to-do  professional  and  tech- 
nical personnel  were  rarely  charged  with,  much  less  prosecuted  for, 
crimes.  The  acquittal  rate  in  court  trials  also  traditionally  was  high, 
not  only  in  the  lower  tribunals  but  even  in  the  courts  of  first  in- 
stance, which  try  felonies. 

A  Department  of  State  study  noted  that  the  criminal  justice  sys- 
tem was  characterized  by  consistent  underfunding;  unwieldy  laws 
of  evidence  that  created  an  overreliance  on  confessions  to  obtain 
convictions;  the  intimidation  of  judges,  prosecutors,  jurors,  and 
witnesses;  a  lack  of  modern  investigative  and  forensic  equipment 
and  expertise;  judges  and  court  officers  who  worked  only  half-days; 
and  antiquated  and  wholly  inadequate  administrative  systems  and 
office  equipment.  Political  violence  in  the  1970s  and  1980s  further 
crippled  the  judicial  system.  Virtually  no  attempt  was  made  to 
investigate  the  many  thousands  of  murders  perpetrated  between 


251 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

1979  and  1983  or  to  punish  those  responsible.  By  1985  the  homi- 
cide conviction  rate,  which  in  1978  was  25  percent,  had  dropped 
to  13  percent.  It  was  as  low  as  4  percent  in  rural  areas  by  1988. 
The  number  of  homicide  cases  brought  before  the  courts  also 
declined  steadily  in  the  1980s.  Although  the  reported  homicide  rate 
reached  a  record  high  of  6,145  in  1980,  only  812  cases  were  brought 
to  trial,  and  only  109  convictions  were  obtained. 

According  to  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  only  about  10  percent  of 
those  in  prison  had  been  sentenced;  the  rest  were  detained  suspects 
awaiting  trial.  Investigations  of  crimes  dragged  on  long  past  the 
legal  time  limits,  and  the  accused  often  spent  years  in  prison  await- 
ing trial. 

Because  the  courts  could  not  be  relied  on  to  prosecute  the  per- 
petrators of  crimes  nor  to  provide  those  arrested  with  speedy  and 
fair  trials,  citizens  had  little  confidence  in  obtaining  redress  of 
grievances  through  the  courts.  In  the  absence  of  a  functional  crimi- 
nal justice  system,  acts  of  vengeance  and  vigilantism  were  ram- 
pant. Even  in  civil  cases,  attorneys  rarely  risked  confronting 
powerful  interests  or  wealthy  families  for  fear  of  physical  retribution. 

The  judiciary  also  suffered  from  the  political  polarization  and 
extremism  that  gripped  the  country  during  the  1980s.  Unidenti- 
fied terrorists  killed  a  military  court  judge  in  May  1988.  That  June 
FMLN  terrorists  assassinated  an  alternate  justice  of  the  peace  and 
threatened  two  prosecuting  attorneys.  Right-wing  obstructionists 
in  the  courts  and  the  Salvadoran  attorney  general's  office  also 
repeatedly  delayed  highly  publicized  cases  such  as  the  murder  of 
Archbishop  Romero.  The  Romero  case  was  shelved  in  December 
1984  by  judicial  authorities  claiming  insufficient  evidence.  In  August 
1985,  however,  a  Salvadoran  court  ordered  the  reopening  of  an 
investigation  into  the  archbishop's  murder.  Duarte  publicly  pre- 
sented new  evidence  in  December  1987  that  he  said  strongly  im- 
plicated D'Aubuisson.  Nevertheless,  the  government  announced 
in  December  1988  that  the  Romero  killing  would  remain  unresolved 
because  of  a  Supreme  Court  ruling  that  the  testimony  of  a  key  wit- 
ness was  invalid. 

Some  military  personnel  reportedly  also  resorted  to  kidnapping 
to  intimidate  lawyers  and  witnesses.  A  lawyer  assigned  to  defend 
the  five  Salvadoran  members  of  the  GN  accused  of  murdering  the 
United  States  churchwomen  said  he  was  forced  to  take  part  in  a 
"conspiracy"  aimed  at  preventing  higher  ranking  military  officers 
from  being  implicated  in  the  case.  After  refusing  to  cooperate,  the 
lawyer  charged  that  he  was  abducted  by  members  of  the  GN,  tor- 
tured, and  imprisoned  at  GN  headquarters. 


252 


National  Security 


Prior  to  January  1987,  suspected  FMLN  members  were  charged 
with  violations  of  Articles  373  to  411  of  the  Penal  Code  (the  arti- 
cles dealing  with  crimes  against  the  state)  but  were  processed  under 
Decree  50,  a  special  state-of-emergency  law  that  established  a  mili- 
tary court  system  to  try  such  cases.  As  a  result  of  the  Legislative 
Assembly's  January  1987  decision  not  to  renew  the  state  of  emer- 
gency, all  terrorism- related  cases  had  to  be  tried  under  normal  Sal- 
vadoran  law.  New  FMLN  suspects  were  therefore  remanded  to 
the  regular  courts,  although  the  previous  cases  continued  to  be  tried 
under  Decree  50  provisions.  By  mid- 198 7  the  Decree  50  courts  had 
cleared  more  than  half  of  their  backlog  of  pending  cases,  acquit- 
ting some  defendants,  convicting  some,  and  sending  others  to  the 
regular  courts  for  trial  for  common  crimes.  Judges  in  the  regular 
courts  tended  to  follow  the  Penal  Code  strictly  and  often  released 
suspects  despite  evidence  of  their  membership  in  the  FMLN.  The 
continuous  threat  of  FMLN  violence  was  a  principal  reason  that 
court  personnel  avoided  making  decisions  that  might  draw 
retaliation. 

In  the  late  1980s,  several  developments  suggested  that  the  prin- 
ciple of  military  accountability  to  the  judicial  system  was  slowly 
being  established.  First,  two  military  officers  were  jailed  in  1987 
for  their  involvement  with  a  kidnap- for- profit  ring.  In  addition, 
an  army  lieutenant  was  arrested  and  turned  over  to  the  courts  in 
connection  with  the  murders  of  three  civilians  in  August  1987;  and 
third,  a  jury  in  May  1987  determined  that  four  policemen  were 
guilty  of  the  January  1983  murders  of  two  students.  As  of  late  1988, 
however,  the  courts  had  never  convicted  any  military  officer  of  a 
crime. 

Two  high-profile  cases  involving  United  States  citizens  were  in- 
cluded under  the  1987  amnesty  program.  In  the  first  case,  the  Mili- 
tary Court  of  First  Instance  ruled  in  November  1987  that  three 
PRTC  terrorists  jailed  for  killing  four  United  States  Marines,  two 
American  technicians,  and  seven  Latin  Americans  in  the  1985 
sidewalk-cafe  attack  were  covered  by  the  amnesty  decreed  by  Duarte 
because  theirs  was  a  "political"  crime  with  a  military  objective. 
None  of  the  three  PRTC  terrorists  was  ever  tried  for  the  crimes. 
The  Military  Appeals  Court  upheld  the  decision  on  January  26, 
1988.  That  February,  however,  the  United  States  attorney  gen- 
eral, supported  by  the  United  States  embassy,  appealed  to  Duarte 
to  reverse  the  court's  decision  in  his  capacity  as  commander  in  chief 
of  the  armed  forces.  In  a  decision  made  public  on  April  1 1 ,  1988, 
Duarte,  knowing  that  United  States  aid  to  El  Salvador  was  at  stake, 
ruled  that  the  three  men  charged  in  the  killings  could  not  be  freed 
under  the  amnesty  law.  Duarte  argued  that  the  four  United  States 


253 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Marines  who  were  slain  had  diplomatic  status  as  provided  by  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  Crimes  Against 
Internationally  Protected  Persons,  which  El  Salvador  ratified  in 
1980. 

In  the  second  case,  a  Salvadoran  chamber  of  second  instance 
(appeals  court)  decided  in  December  1987  to  free  the  two  convicted 
killers  of  the  three  agrarian  reform  officials.  As  a  result,  the  case 
then  pending  against  former  Lieutenant  Roberto  I.  Lopez  Sibrian, 
who  had  ordered  the  killings,  was  expected  to  be  closed,  although 
he  remained  in  jail  in  late  1988.  A  similar  attempt  to  secure  the 
release  of  three  of  the  five  national  guardsmen  sentenced  to  thirty- 
year  terms  in  1984  for  the  killing  of  four  United  States  church- 
women  in  1980  was  unsuccessful. 

Judicial  Reform 

With  the  enactment  of  enabling  legislation  by  the  Legislative 
Assembly  in  the  summer  of  1985,  the  Salvadoran  government 
initiated  a  judicial  reform  effort  in  collaboration  with  AID,  which 
provided  US$9.2  million  in  assistance.  The  program  called  for  in- 
stitutionalizing due  process  and  the  rule  of  law,  including  the  speedy 
and  fair  trial  of  persons  accused  of  crimes.  Another  important 
objective  was  to  bring  to  justice  the  perpetrators  of  particularly 
notorious  crimes,  such  as  political  assassinations. 

The  Salvadoran  government's  reform  effort  included  establish- 
ing a  study  commission  that  drafted  changes  in  the  military  justice 
and  penal  codes  and  proposed  steps  to  reduce  the  prison  popula- 
tion, create  a  judicial  career  system,  and  implement  merit  selec- 
tion of  judges.  Progress  in  reforming  the  judicial  institution 
continued  to  be  slow,  however,  and  encountered  many  problems 
in  1988.  Under  the  judicial  administration  and  training  portion 
of  the  program,  the  government  established  four  new  courts  in  order 
to  reduce  case  backlogs,  completed  a  management  assessment  of 
the  judiciary,  inaugurated  three  new  law  libraries,  and  trained 
judicial  personnel  both  locally  and  abroad.  The  government  also 
drafted  legislation  aimed  at  improving  the  administrative  efficiency 
of  the  judiciary. 

According  to  the  Department  of  State,  the  judicial  reform  pro- 
gram comprised  a  legal  revisory  commission,  a  judicial  protection 
unit,  a  commission  for  investigations,  and  a  judicial  training  pro- 
gram. The  first  component  was  created  by  decree  in  June  1985 
and  called  the  Revisory  Commission  for  Salvadoran  Legislation. 
It  consisted  of  ten  presidential  appointees  representing  three  minis- 
tries, the  Supreme  Court,  law  faculties,  and  attorney  associations. 
Its  purpose  was  to  coordinate  the  overall  judicial  reform  effort,  to 


254 


National  Security 


study  the  Sal vadoran  judicial  system,  and  to  develop  the  resulting 
draft  legislation  for  the  Legislative  Assembly.  The  commission 
focused  its  efforts  initially  on  revising  procedures  and  laws  to  im- 
prove such  facets  of  the  existing  criminal  law  system  as  rules  of  evi- 
dence and  procedures,  the  jury  system,  and  legal  defense  and 
detention.  The  commission  also  planned  to  explore  the  possibility 
of  a  new  Decree  50-style  code  to  prosecute  crimes  against  the  govern- 
ment. In  addition,  it  envisioned  longer  term  and  costlier  reforms 
such  as  merit  selection  of  judges  and  a  judicial  career  service. 

The  second  component,  the  Judical  Protection  Unit  (Unidad  de 
Proteccion  Judicial — UPJ),  was  initiated  in  1984  (formally  created 
by  decree  in  September  1985)  to  provide  security  forjudges,  jurors, 
prosecutors,  and  witnesses  in  politically  controversial  criminal  cases. 
In  the  UPJ's  first  assignments,  a  group  of  sixty  prison  guards  who 
had  received  training  in  the  United  States  provided  security  for 
participants  in  the  churchwomen's  murder  trial  in  the  summer  of 
1984  and  the  Sheraton  case  trial  in  February  1986.  The  initial  con- 
cept of  the  unit  was  found  unworkable,  however,  owing  to  the  high 
costs  of  maintaining  a  sufficiently  large  and  well-trained  force.  In 
early  1988,  the  government  was  considering  a  new  proposal  to  es- 
tablish the  unit  as  a  professional  risk-assessment  team  that  would 
plan  and  organize  protection  in  appropriate  cases;  protective  per- 
sonnel would  then  be  drawn  from  law  enforcement  units  or  pri- 
vate contractors. 

The  third  component,  the  Investigations  Commission  (Comi- 
sion  para  Investigaciones — CI),  was  created  by  decree  in  July  1985 
to  develop  criminal  investigation  capabilities,  supported  by  foren- 
sic laboratories.  The  members  of  this  civilian-controlled  agency  were 
appointed  by  the  president.  Chaired  by  the  minister  of  justice,  it 
included  the  vice  minister  of  interior  and  a  representative  of  the 
president.  Reporting  to  the  commission  was  an  executive-branch 
office  responsible  for  managing  the  twenty-seven-member  Special 
Investigative  Unit,  the  eight-member  Forensic  Unit,  and  a  legal 
and  administrative  support  unit.  The  SIU  was  formed  in  1985  to 
investigate  politically  important  crimes  and  consisted  of  Salvadoran 
soldiers  or  officials  trained  by  the  United  States  Federal  Bureau 
of  Investigation  (FBI).  Required  by  law  to  be  drawn  from  the  secu- 
rity forces,  SIU  members  remained  salaried  employees  of  those 
forces.  The  Forensic  Unit  was  inaugurated  in  mid- 198 7  and  by 
early  1988  was  approaching  full  operational  capacity.  The  SIU  and 
the  Forensic  Unit,  which  were  almost  fully  equipped  and  trained, 
had  made  valuable  contributions  to  the  investigations  of  several 
key  cases,  including  the  Romero  assassination.  The  investigative 
and  forensic  expertise  of  the  two  units  was  unprecedented  in  El 


255 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

Salvador  and  represented  a  significant  step  in  the  professionaliza- 
tion  of  the  country's  criminal  justice  system. 

The  fourth  component,  the  Judicial  Training  Program,  was  de- 
signed to  improve  the  court  system's  administrative  management, 
human  resources,  and  physical  facilities.  Under  this  project,  the 
government  established  two  new  courts  to  deal  with  a  serious  back- 
log of  cases,  assessed  court  equipment  needs,  set  up  a  new  ad- 
ministrative unit  for  the  court  system  to  release  judges  from 
administrative  tasks,  and  provided  short-term  training  forjudges 
and  justices  of  the  peace. 

Penal  and  Procedural  Codes 

El  Salvador's  penal  and  procedural  codes  are  derived  from  the 
established  precedents  of  nineteenth-century  Spanish  jurisprudence 
and  therefore  follow  the  standard  Latin  American  pattern.  Although 
adopted  early  in  the  twentieth  century,  both  documents  have  been 
revised  and  updated  periodically  since  then.  Changes  in  the  Penal 
Code  of  1904  have  been  enacted  through  supplementary  legisla- 
tion in  the  form  of  laws  or  decrees.  El  Salvador  published  a  re- 
vised Penal  Code  in  1980.  The  code  recognizes  three  distinct  levels 
of  offenses:  felonies  (delitos),  misdemeanors  (faltas),  and  infractions 
(contravenciones).  The  major  categories  of  offenses  distinguish  among 
crimes  against  the  state,  crimes  against  persons  or  property,  and 
threats  to  public  order  or  safety.  The  Penal  Code  contains  statutes 
prohibiting  crimes  against  the  state  (Articles  373  to  411),  subver- 
sion (Articles  376  to  380),  treason  (Article  381),  terrorism  (Arti- 
cles 400,  402,  and  403),  and  other  actions  against  the  stability  of 
the  state.  Crimes  against  persons  or  property  cover  the  more  con- 
ventional types  of  lawbreaking,  including  such  offenses  as  homi- 
cide, assault,  robbery,  and  fraud.  The  code  takes  into  account 
possible  extenuations  and  mitigating  factors,  such  as  self-defense. 
Ignorance  of  the  law  is  not  considered  an  excuse,  however,  and 
an  unsuccessful  attempted  crime  is  punishable  as  though  perpe- 
trated. Provisions  allow  for  increased  penalties  in  cases  considered 
aggravated  or  grossly  malicious. 

The  code  carefully  defines  penalties  and  their  range  in  consider- 
able detail.  Recognized  punishments  include  fines,  imprisonment, 
banishment,  loss  of  civil  rights,  and  death.  Article  27  of  the  Con- 
stitution, however,  allows  the  death  penalty  only  in  cases  estab- 
lished by  military  laws  during  a  state  of  international  war.  The 
code  also  prohibits  imprisonment  for  debt,  perpetual  and  dishonora- 
ble sentences,  banishment,  and  all  kinds  of  mental  or  physical  tor- 
ment. Persons  arrested  for  crimes  against  the  state  have  the  same 
legal  protection  as  common  criminals.  Holding  views  opposed  to 


256 


National  Security 


the  government  is  not  justification  for  arrest  if  the  suspect  does  not 
advocate  violence.  Thus,  the  courts  have  held  that  membership 
in  a  front  organization  controlled  by  the  insurgents  is  not  by  itself 
sufficient  reason  to  hold  an  arrestee,  although  membership  in  a 
guerrilla  group  is. 

In  the  Salvadoran  system,  the  courts  become  involved  in  the  case 
almost  immediately  after  the  crime  is  committed  because  the  judge 
oversees  the  investigation.  If  the  police  conduct  a  preliminary  in- 
vestigation, they  must  submit  the  result  to  the  courts  within  seventy- 
two  hours.  A  justice  of  the  peace  handles  minor  crimes,  but  must 
forward  major  cases  to  a  judge  in  a  court  of  first  instance  within 
fifteen  days.  In  cases  involving  death,  a  judge — usually  a  justice 
of  the  peace — goes  to  the  scene  of  the  crime  and  "recognizes"  the 
death  judicially;  a  medical  examiner  determines  the  cause  of  death. 
Arrest  regulations  require  that  the  security  forces  register  detainees 
and  have  them  examined  by  a  doctor  or  nurse  on  entry  into  police 
facilities.  In  insurgency- related  cases,  the  authorities  must  promptly 
notify  the  family  of  the  detainee  or  one  of  the  human  rights  offices 
of  the  arrest.  Mistreatment  of  prisoners  is  prohibited.  The  judge 
has  seventy-two  hours  to  determine  if  the  evidence  shows  sufficient 
cause  to  hold  the  suspect  and,  if  so,  orders  pretrial  detention.  After 
being  turned  over  to  the  courts  within  seventy-two  hours,  an  arrestee 
has  the  right  to  have  a  defense  attorney  present. 

The  judge  then  begins  the  investigation  (instruction)  phase, 
actually  conducting  an  in-depth  investigation  into  the  crime.  The 
judge  lists  all  of  the  elements  of  proof  needed  in  order  to  deter- 
mine the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  accused,  then  presides  over  each 
step  of  the  investigation,  issuing  orders  for  witnesses  to  come  to 
testify,  visiting  the  scene  of  the  crime,  and  ordering  the  police  to 
perform  forensic  tests.  While  the  judge  is  conducting  the  investi- 
gation, suspects  accused  of  major  crimes  often  remain  in  pretrial 
confinement,  even  though  the  investigation  phase  may  take  years 
to  complete. 

Once  the  judge  is  satisfied  that  all  the  available  information  has 
been  collected,  the  case  may  be  dismissed  or  moved  to  the  plenary 
phase  of  the  trial,  in  which  the  judge,  the  defense,  and  the  prose- 
cution prepare  in  writing  their  explanations  of  what  the  evidence 
shows.  In  murder  cases,  the  final  step  of  the  plenary  phase  is  the 
jury  stage,  in  which  the  court  clerk  reads  to  a  panel  of  five  jurors 
a  summary  of  the  evidence  and  the  statements  by  the  judge,  defense, 
and  prosecution.  Extensive  procedural  safeguards  protecting  the 
rights  of  the  defendant  and  rigid  rules  of  evidence  under  the  civilian 
Penal  Code  severely  limit  the  capabilities  of  the  prosecution.  This 


257 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

is  one  reason  why  only  about  15  percent  of  jury  trials  resulted  in 
convictions  in  the  mid-1980s. 

The  accused  has  the  right  to  file  an  amparo  petition  (a  claim  that 
a  constitutional  right  has  been  violated)  with  the  Supreme  Court 
at  any  time  during  the  process,  as  well  as  one  habeas  corpus  peti- 
tion per  phase  of  the  process,  starting  from  the  time  the  accused 
becomes  aware  that  the  judge  may  issue  a  warrant  for  his  or  her 
arrest.  When  any  petition  is  filed  with  the  Supreme  Court,  all  work 
on  the  case  by  the  judge  in  the  court  of  first  instance  ceases,  and 
the  entire  case  record  is  sent  to  the  Supreme  Court.  The  defense 
may  also  file  appeals  to  the  chambers  of  second  instance  at  certain 
times  in  the  process,  and  this  too  causes  the  judge  in  the  court  of 
first  instance  to  cease  work  on  the  case.  Finally,  a  type  of  appeal 
known  as  a  cassation  may  be  filed  with  the  Supreme  Court,  also 
causing  a  halt  in  work  on  the  case.  Some  time  limits  set  down  in 
the  laws  for  consideration  of  these  appeals  have  been  followed 
rigorously,  whereas  others  were  ignored  in  the  late  1980s. 

The  Penal  System 

The  1983  Constitution  reaffirms  that  the  penal  system  shall  be 
designed  to  rehabilitate  prisoners  rather  than  solely  to  punish  them. 
Article  28  prescribes  that  "the  state  shall  organize  the  penitentiaries 
with  the  aim  of  reforming  offenders,  educating  them,  and  teach- 
ing them  industrious  habits,  seeking  their  rehabilitation  and  the 
prevention  of  crime."  Overall  direction  and  administration  of  the 
prison  system  is  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  director  general  of 
penal  and  rehabilitation  centers,  under  the  minister  of  justice. 

As  of  the  late  1980s,  the  prison  system  was  composed  of  three 
national  penitentiaries  and  at  least  thirty  jails  or  preventive  deten- 
tion facilities  distributed  throughout  the  country.  The  federal 
government  operated  the  penitentiaries,  located  in  Ahuachapan, 
Santa  Ana,  and  San  Vicente.  The  penitentiaries  were  the  principal 
incarceration  institutions,  housing  approximately  half  of  the  total 
prison  population.  Other  than  the  penitentiaries,  the  prison  sys- 
tem was  loosely  organized  and  received  little  centralized  guidance 
or  control.  The  government  published  few  statistics  on  prisons. 
Local  authorities  supervised  subordinate  facilities  and  had  few 
restrictions  on  their  authority  over  methods  and  procedures.  Each 
of  the  country's  departments  had  at  least  one  jail  or  detention  fa- 
cility, with  at  least  one  in  every  departmental  capital,  although  San 
Salvador  had  no  facility  for  men.  The  two  women's  prisons  were 
located  at  the  town  of  Ilopango  and  Santa  Ana;  their  inmates  con- 
sisted mainly  of  prostitutes  serving  six-month  terms.  Prison  facili- 
ties ranged  from  simple  frame  enclosures  with  little  security  and 


258 


National  Security 


few  amenities  to  well-built,  professionally  planned  buildings  with 
good  protection  and  adequate  accommodations. 

In  late  1988,  El  Salvador's  security  situation  worsened.  The 
FMLN,  armed  for  the  first  time  with  some  Soviet-made  AK-47 
assault  rifles,  actually  had  brought  the  war  to  its  bloodiest  level 
in  two  or  three  years  by  launching  another  countrywide  guerrilla 
and  terrorist  offensive,  which  once  again  included  assassinating 
mayors.  FMLN  guerrillas  inflicted  disproportionately  high  casual- 
ties on  the  army  in  attacks  on  installations  such  as  the  Fourth  In- 
fantry Brigade  garrison  at  El  Paraiso  in  Chalatenango  Department 
and  in  a  mortar  barrage  on  a  GN  facility  in  San  Salvador.  Other 
FMLN  actions  in  San  Salvador  included  breaking  criminals  out 
of  a  jail  and  carrying  out  nightly  terrorist  bombings.  FMLN  lead- 
ers, including  Villalobos,  also  opened  an  unusual  diplomatic  offen- 
sive by  visiting  several  Latin  American  capitals.  The  army,  for  its 
part,  was  widely  reported  to  have  perpetrated  a  massacre,  the  first 
in  three  years,  of  ten  peasants  in  the  hamlet  of  San  Sebastian  in 
San  Vicente  Department,  after  accusing  them  of  collaborating  with 
the  guerrillas.  Under  increasing  criticism  for  its  conduct  of  the  war, 
the  military  underwent  another  orderly  shakeup,  with  General 
Blandon  being  replaced  as  armed  forces  chief  of  staff  by  Colonel 
Ponce,  a  strong  advocate  of  promoting  economic  development  in 
the  areas  affected  by  the  war.  Under  Ponce's  command,  the  mili- 
tary was  expected  to  become  a  more  aggressive,  offensive-minded 
force,  but  one  placing  greater  emphasis  on  the  "hearts  and  minds" 
campaign. 

As  of  mid- 1988,  no  book  devoted  exclusively  to  Salvadoran  na- 
tional security  topics  was  available.  Relevant  data  can  be  derived 
mainly  from  disparate  publications  other  than  books,  such  as  United 
States  government  or  congressional  reports,  journal  articles,  news- 
letters, and  newspaper  reports,  as  well  as  Salvadoran  legal  docu- 
ments. A  few  books  prove  to  be  useful.  A  good  source  for  historical 
information  on  the  Salvadoran  military  establishment,  despite  its 
strongly  anti-United  States  policy  bias,  is  Michael  McClintock's 
The  American  Connection.  Adrian  J.  English' s  Armed  Forces  of  Latin 
America  contains  other  useful  historical  and  military  data  on  the 
Salvadoran  armed  forces.  More  recent  military  data  are  provided 
in  The  Military  Balance,  an  annual  published  by  the  International 
Institute  for  Strategic  Studies.  Informative  1988  reports  prepared 
by  the  United  States  Department  of  State  include  The  Situation  in 
El  Salvador.  Discussions  of  El  Salvador's  human  rights  record  are 


259 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


found  in  the  Department  of  State's  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1987  and  publications  of  Americas  Watch.  The  Com- 
mittee on  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  United  States  Congress  has  pub- 
lished the  transcripts  of  numerous  hearings  on  El  Salvador  since 
1981,  including  Human  Rights  and  Political  Developments  in  El  Sal- 
vador, 1987.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


260 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  Trends,  1970-2000 

3  Causes  of  Death,  1983 

4  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  at  Constant  1962  Prices, 

Including  and  Excluding  Coffee,  1981-86 

5  Economically  Active  Population  by  Age-Group,  Selected  Years 

1970-2000 

6  Imports,  Exports,  and  Current  Account  Balance,  1983-87 

7  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 

8  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1988 

9  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1988 


261 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


Table  2.  Population  Trends,  1970-2000 


Population  at  Beginning 

of  Period  Crude  Birth  Crude  Death 

Period  (in  thousands)  Rate  Rate 


1970-75    3,516  42.2  11.1 

1975-80    4,108  41.1  9.5 

1980-85    4,813  40.0  8.2 

1985-90    5,643  38.3  7.2 

1990-95    6,595  36.1  6.3 

1995-2000    7,654  33.5  5.6 

2000    8,803 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Robert  W.  Fox  and  Jerrold  W.  Huguet,  Population  and 
Urban  Trends  in  Central  America  and  Panama,  Washington,  1977,  97. 


263 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Causes  of  Death,  1983 


Cause  of  Death 

Number  of 
Deaths 

Percentage  of 
Total  Deaths 

Rate  per  100,000 
Inhabitants 

Perinatal  conditions  and  diseases  .... 

3,552 

11.2 

75.2  * 

Intestinal  infections   

2,206 

6.9 

46.7 

Homicides  and  other  purposeful 

2,198 

6.9 

46.5 

Pulmonary  circulation  and  other  forms 

1,102 

3.5 

23.3 

966 

3.0 

20.4 

Bronchitis,  emphysema,  and 

945 

3.0 

20.0 

Cerebrovascular  disease  

886 

2.8 

18.7 

876 

2.7 

18.5 

685 

2.2 

14.5 

611 

1.9 

12.9 

Other   

17,799 

55.9 

n.a. 

TOTAL   

31,826 

100.0 

n.a. 

n.a.  =  not  available 

*  Rate  per  1,000  live  births  was  20.1. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Pan  American  Health  Organization,  Health  Conditions 
in  the  Americas,  1981-1984,  Washington,  1986,  113. 


264 


Appendix 


CO 

O 

T 

to 

vq 

q 

CM 

oi 

CO 

CM 

© 

CO 

CM 

CM 

o 

CM 

m 

co 
cr> 
°1 

CO 
CM 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CO 

co 

Oi 

CM 

T 

CM 

q 

CO 

00 

co 
°1 

CO 
CM 

© 

CO 

q 

o 

O 

CM 

CO 

- 

o 
°°« 

CM 

CO 
CM 
«3 

CM 

CM 

<£> 

CO 

"? 

© 

tO 

1 

to 

CO 

CM 

to 

lO 

CM 

CM 

CO 

<£> 

m 

CO 

<£> 

CO 

CM 

m 

<£> 
CD 

CO 

t^. 

CM 

co 

co' 

CM 

265 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


I 


I" 


co<£>CT)r^co-'^<£>r^.tO-rtCT)CTi,'3,,©CM 

N(0^(£co<yimcocoinffi0'*om 


"  <y>  co  <r>  o  m  t-c  - 

CO  M  IN  (N  th 


co 

co 

co 

m 

CM 

O 

10 

<£> 

o 

CO 

CO 

o> 

© 

CM 

m 

CM 

CM 

CT> 

CTi 

CO 

CM 

cr> 

ct 

co 

CM 

CM 

O 

CTi 

CM 

CM 

O 

CM 

m 

m 

m 

CT 

co 

m 

CM 

CT 

m 

CM 

CO 

co 

co 

co 

CM 

CM 

iq 

cm' 

CO 

CM 

-*> 

co 

m 

CM 

ai 

co 

CO 

CT 

o 

<£> 

o 

CM 

O 

CO 

°l 

CSL 

r- 

CO 

o 

CO 

00 

o 

co" 

CM 

co" 

co" 

co" 

co" 

co" 

o" 

co" 

of 

^" 

CO 

CM 

o 

CO 

CO 

CM 

m 

co 

co 

co 

CM 

CM 

CM 

cm" 

o 

m 

CO 

CO 

CM 

CO 

<o 

© 

O 

m 

CO 

m 

O 

m 

CO 

© 

o 

co 

co 

00 

co 

°l 

CO 

cn 

<o 

r- 

co 

m 

in 

m" 

cm" 

i£? 

m" 

o" 

co" 

o" 

cm" 

o" 

of 

co" 

<£>" 

o 

r~» 

CO 

<£> 

CO 

o 

CT) 

m 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

co 

CM 

CM 

co 

co 

CT) 

co 

CO 

co 

CO 

CO 

co 

CM 

CT) 

10 

CT) 

CO 

0 

co 

CO 

m 

m 

CO 

CM 

co 

CM 

CM 

O 

<o 

O 

CM 

CO 

m 

CT) 

co 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CM 

co 

CM 

CO 

CO 

CM 

CT 

O 

CO 

co 

CT 

CO 

CM 

co 

ct 

CO 

m 

co 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CT 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

m 

n 

O 

CO 

O 

CO 

CT 

3 

n 

CT) 

CT 

<£> 

CT> 

CT 

CT 

m 

CO 

0 

co 

CO 

CO 

CM 

CO 

in 

CT 

CM 

CM 

O 

CT 

m 

O 

CT 

CT 

m 

r» 

CM 

CM 

CT 

co 

0 

CT 

to 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CM 

co 

CTiCT)-<*,0<£)m-^'*|t^-<fO'*it^l^-^ 
OCT-^coi^r^-coCTiin'+'CTiin-^CTiCM 


Oinomoinomomomomo 
•rt-^CMCMcoco-«*<-«*<mm(r)i£)r->.r^co 


266 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Imports,  Exports,  and  Current  Account  Balance,  1983-87 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987  * 

831 

915 

895 

772 

911 

Exports   

735 

726 

679 

713 

573 

Current  account  balance  .  . 

-37 

-54 

-29 

64 

-110 

*  Estimate. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Report:  Guatemala, 
El  Salvador,  Honduras,  London,  1988,  3;  and  International  Monetary  Fund,  Inter- 
national Financial  Statistics,  41,  No.  1,  Washington,  December  1988,  214-16. 


Table  7.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 

Description  Country  of  Origin  Inventory 
Tanks 

AMS-13  (light)    United  States  12 

Armored  personnel  carriers 

M-3A1    -do-  5 

M-113    -do-  20 

AML-90    -do-  10 

UR-416  (armored  repair  vehicle)    West  Germany  8 

M-37B1    United  States  66 

Field  artillery 

105mm  Howitzer    -do-  50 

105mm  M-101    -do-  30 

105mm  M-102    -do-  6 

M-56    Yugoslavia  14 

155mm  M-114    United  States  6 

Mortars 

81mm    -do-  300 

120mm  UB-M52    -do-  60 

Recoilless  rifles 

90mm  M-67    -do-  400 

Antiaircraft 

20mm  M-55    -do-  24 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989,  London,  1988,  196; 
and  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London],  June  28,  1986,  1243,  1261. 


267 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Table  8.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1988 


Description 

Country  of  Origin 

Inventory 

Fixed-wing  aircraft 

Israel 

25 

United  States 

7 

Beech  AT- 11  and  T-34   

-do- 

2 

-do- 

2 

Cessna  337  0-2A  Super  Skymaster  

-do- 

5  to  9 

-do- 

7 

Cessna  A-37B  Dragonfly  light  attack  jet  ... 

-do- 

10 

-do- 

6 

Dassault  MD-450  Ouragan  fighter- 

France 

8 

United  States 

1 

Fairchild-Hiller  FH- 1 1 00   

-do- 

1 

Fouga  CM- 170  Magister  trainer/light 

France 

6 

Helicopters 

-do- 

3 

-do- 

3 

United  States 

Over  14 

-do- 

Over  40 

-do- 

9 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989,  London,  1988,  196; 
Military  Technology,  10,  No.  13,  1986,  97;  and  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London],  June  28, 
1986,  1261. 


Table  9.  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1988 


Description  Country  of  Origin  Inventory 
Patrol  craft 

31m  GC-6  Camcraft   United  States  3 

20m  Sewart   -do-  1 

20m  Swiftship    -do-  1 

26m  Swiftship  (Libertad)   -do-  1 

32m  craft    -do-  3 

Patrol  launches 

13m  coast  guard  utility    -do-  2 

11m  craft    -do-  4 

11m  Latana   -do-  11 

8m  river  patrol    -do-  6 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance  1988-1989,  London,  1988,  196; 
Military  Technology,  10,  No.  13,  1986,  97;  and  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London],  June  28, 
1986,  1261. 


268 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Anderson,  Charles  W.  "El  Salvador:  The  Army  as  Reformer." 

Pages  70-91  in  Martin  C.  Needier  (ed.),  Political  Systems  of  Latin 

America.  New  York:  Van  Nostrand  Reinhold,  1970. 
Anderson,  Thomas  P.  Matanza:  El  Salvador's  Communist  Revolt  of 

1932.  Lincoln:  University  of  Nebraska  Press,  1971. 
Baloyra,  Enrique  A.  El  Salvador  in  Transition.  Chapel  Hill:  University 

of  North  Carolina  Press,  1982. 
Caldera  T.,  Hilda.  Historia  del  Partido  Demdcrata  Cristiano.  Tegucigalpa, 

Honduras:  Instituto  Centroamericano  de  Estudios  Politicos, 

1983. 

Christian,  Shirley.  "The  Other  Side:  El  Salvador's  Fractious,  Fren- 
zied Left, "  New  Republic,  189,  No.  3,  October  24,  1983,  13-15, 
18-19. 

Dickey,  Christopher.  "Expected  Certification  for  El  Salvador  Based 
on  Mixed  Record,"  Washington  Post,  January  21,  1983,  A19. 

Duarte,  Jose  Napoleon.  Duarte:  My  Story.  New  York:  G.P.  Put- 
nam's Sons,  1986. 

Feinberg,  Richard  E.  "Central  America:  No  Easy  Answers,"  For- 
eign Affairs,  59,  No.  5,  Summer  1981,  1121-46. 

Findling,  John  E.  Close  Neighbors,  Distant  Friends.  (Contributions 
in  American  History,  No.  122.)  New  York:  Greenwood  Press, 
1987. 

Flemion,  Philip  F.  Historical  Dictionary  of  El  Salvador.  (Latin  American 
Historical  Dictionaries,  No.  5.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scare- 
crow Press,  1972. 

Harris,  Kevin,  and  Mario  Espinosa.  "Reform,  Repression,  and 
Revolution  in  El  Salvador,"  Fletcher  Forum,  5,  No.  2,  Summer 
1981,  295-319. 

Karnes,  Thomas  L.  The  Failure  of  Union:  Central  America,  1824-1960. 

Chapel  Hill:  University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  1961. 
Kincaid,  A.  Douglas.  "Peasants  into  Rebels:  Community  and  Class 

in  Rural  El  Salvador,"  Comparative  Studies  in  Society  and  History, 

29,  No.  3,  July  1987,  466-94. 
Leiken,  Robert  S.  "The  Salvadoran  Left."  Pages  111-30  in 

Robert  S.  Leiken  (ed.),  Central  America:  Anatomy  of  Conflict.  New 

York:  Pergamon  Press,  1984. 
Leiken,  Robert  S.,  and  Barry  Rubin  (eds.).  The  Central  American 

Crisis  Reader.  New  York:  Summit  Books,  1987. 


269 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


LeoGrande,  William  M.,  and  Carla  Anne  Robbins.  "Oligarchs 
and  Officers:  The  Crisis  in  El  Salvador,"  Foreign  Affairs,  58, 
No.  5,  Summer  1980,  1084-1103. 

McColm,  R.  Bruce.  "El  Salvador's  Guerrillas:  Structure,  Stra- 
tegy, and  .  .  .  Success?"  Freedom  at  Issue,  No.  74,  September- 
October  1983,  3-16. 

McDonald,  Ronald  H.  "El  Salvador:  The  Politics  of  Revolution." 
Pages  528-44  in  Howard  J.  Wiarda  and  Harvey  F.  Kline  (eds.), 
Latin  American  Politics  and  Development.  (2d  ed.)  Boulder,  Colo- 
rado: Westview  Press,  1985. 

Montgomery,  Tommie  Sue.  Revolution  in  El  Salvador:  Origins  and 
Evolution.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

North,  Liisa.  Bitter  Grounds:  Roots  of  Revolt  in  El  Salvador.  Westport, 
Connecticut:  Lawrence  Hill,  1985. 

Rodriguez,  Mario.  Central  America.  Englewood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey: 
Prentice-Hall,  1965. 

Schmidt,  Steffen.  El  Salvador:  America's  Next  Vietnam?  Salisbury, 
North  Carolina:  Documentary,  1983. 

Schulz,  Donald  E.  "El  Salvador:  Revolution  and  Counterrevolution 
in  the  Living  Museum."  Pages  189-268  in  Donald  E.  Schulz  and 
Douglas  H.  Graham  (eds.),  Revolution  and  Counterrevolution  in  Central 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1984. 

Simpson,  Lesley  Bird.  The  Encomienda  in  New  Spain.  (University 
of  California  Publications  in  History  Series.)  Berkeley  and  Los 
Angeles:  University  of  California  Press,  1929. 

United  States.  Congress.  97th,  2d  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations.  Report  of  the  U.S.  Official  Observer  Mission  to 
the  El  Salvador  Constituent  Assembly  Elections  of  March  28,  1982. 
Washington:  GPO,  1982. 

 Department  of  State.  Communist  Interference  in  El  Salvador: 

Documents  Demonstrating  Communist  Support  of  the  Salvadoran  Insur- 
gency. Washington:  February  23,  1981. 

Webre,  Stephen.  Jose  Napoleon  Duarte  and  the  Christian  Democratic  Party 
in  Salvadoran  Politics,  1960-1972.  Baton  Rouge:  Louisiana  State 
University  Press,  1979. 

Whi^e,  Alastair.  El  Salvador.  (Nations  of  the  Modern  World  Series.) 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

Woodward,  Ralph  Lee,  Jr.  Central  America:  A  Nation  Divided.  (Latin 
American  Histories  Series.)  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1985. 

Chapter  2 

Adams,  Richard  N.  Cultural  Surveys  of  Panama-Nicaragua- Guatemala-El 
Salvador- Honduras.  (Scientific  Publications  Series.)  Washington: 
Pan  American  Sanitary  Bureau,  1977. 


270 


Bibliography 


Anderson,  Thomas  P.  The  War  of  the  Dispossessed:  Honduras  and  El 
Salvador,  1969.  Lincoln:  University  of  Nebraska  Press,  1981. 

Armstrong,  Robert.  "El  Salvador— Beyond  Elections,"  NACLA 
Report  on  the  Americas,  16,  No.  2,  March-April  1982,  2-31. 

Armstrong,  Robert,  and  Janet  Shenk.  El  Salvador:  The  Face  oj Revo- 
lution. Boston:  South  End  Press,  1982. 

Baloyra,  Enrique  A.  El  Salvador  in  Transition.  Chapel  Hill:  University 
of  North  Carolina  Press,  1982. 

Berryman,  Phillip.  The  Religious  Roots  of  Rebellion.  Maryknoll,  New 
York:  Orbis  Books,  1984. 

Browning,  David.  "Agrarian  Reform  in  El  Salvador,"  Journal  of 
Latin  American  Studies  [London],  15,  November  1983,  399-426. 

Capa,  Cornell,  and  J.  Mayone  Stycos.  Margin  of  Life:  Population 
and  Poverty  in  the  Americas.  New  York:  Grossman,  1974. 

Constable,  George  (ed.).  Planet  Earth:  Continents  in  Collision.  (Planet 
Earth  Series.)  Alexandria,  Virginia:  Time- Life  Books,  1983. 

Dhanji,  Farid.  El  Salvador:  Demographic  Issues  and  Prospects .  (World 
Bank  Country  Study.)  Washington:  World  Bank,  1979. 

Dominguez,  Enrique,  and  Deborah  Huntington.  "The  Salvation 
Brokers:  Conservative  Evangelicals  in  Central  America," 
NACLA  Report  on  the  Americas,  18,  No.  1 ,  January- February  1984, 
2-36. 

Durham,  William  H.  Scarcity  and  Survival  in  Central  America.  Stan- 
ford: Stanford  University  Press,  1979. 

El  Salvador.  Instituto  Salvadoreno  de  Administracion  Municipal. 
Primer  Seminario  de  Coordinacion  Interinstitucional  del  Saneamiento 
Ambiental  en  El  Salvador,  Ilopango,  El  Salvador,  11-15  Noviembre  1985. 
San  Salvador:  1985. 

 Ministerio  de  Educacion.  Centro  Regional  de  Construc- 

ciones  Escolares  para  America  Latina  y  El  Caribe.  La  Participa- 
cion  Comunal  en  el  Proceso  de  Construcciones  Educativas.  San  Salvador: 
1975. 

 Ministerio  de  Planificacion  y  Coordinacion  del  Desarrollo 

Economico  y  Social.  Estudios  de  Poblacion.  San  Salvador:  1979. 
"El  Salvador."  Pages  731-32  in  Encyclopedia  Britannica,  6.  Chicago: 

William  Benton,  1976. 
"El  Salvador."  Page  124  in  Graham  Hancock  (ed.),  Latin  America 

and  the  Caribbean,  1981-1982.  Saffron  Walden,  Essex,  United 

Kingdom:  World  of  Information,  1981. 
"El  Salvador."  Pages  81-82  in  Lands  and  Peoples:  Central  and  South 

America,  6.  Danbury,  Connecticut:  Grolier,  1981. 
"El  Salvador,  1984,"  NACLA  Report  on  the  Americas,  18,  No.  2, 

March-April  1984,  13-47. 


271 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Fox,  Robert  W.,  and  Jerrold  W.  Huguet.  Population  and  Urban 
Trends  in  Central  America  and  Panama.  Washington:  Inter- American 
Development  Bank,  1977. 

Huezo  Selva,  Rafael.  Agenda  Demogrdfica  de  El  Salvador.  San  Sal- 
vador: Asociacion  Demografica  Salvadorena,  1980. 

Huntington,  Deborah.  "Visions  of  the  Kingdom:  The  Latin  Ameri- 
can Church  in  Conflict,"  NACLA  Report  on  the  Americas,  19, 
No.  5,  September-October  1985,  13-45. 

La  Iglesia  en  El  Salvador.  San  Salvador:  UCA  Editores,  1982. 

Kincaid,  A.  Douglas.  "Peasants  into  Rebels:  Community  and  Class 
in  Rural  El  Salvador, ' '  Comparative  Studies  in  Society  and  History, 
29,  No.  3,  July  1987,  466-94. 

North,  Liisa.  Bitter  Grounds:  Roots  of  Revolt  in  El  Salvador.  Westport, 
Connecticut:  Lawrence  Hill,  1985. 

Pan  American  Health  Organization.  AIDS  in  the  Americas:  The  Sit- 
uation. Washington:  February  16,  1988. 

 .  "El  Salvador."  Pages  127-29  in  Evaluation  of  the  Strategy 

for  Health  for  All  by  the  Year  2000.  Washington:  1986. 

 .  "El  Salvador."  Pages  371-73  in  Program  Budget,  1988-89. 

Washington:  May  1987. 

 Health  Conditions  in  the  Americas,  1981-1984.  (Scientific  Pub- 
lication No.  500.)  Washington:  1986. 

Rodriguez,  Luis  Angel.  Quince  Ahos  de  Labor  en  Poblaciony  Planificacion 
Familiar.  San  Salvador:  Asociacion  Demografica  Salvadorena, 
1979. 

Russell,  Philip  L.  El  Salvador  in  Crisis.  Austin,  Texas:  Colorado 

River  Press,  1984. 
Shenk,  Janet.  "El  Salvador:  The  New  and  the  Old  War,"  NACLA 

Report  on  the  Americas,  19,  No.  3,  May-June  1985,  9-11. 
Simon,  Laurence  R.,  and  James  C.  Stephens,  Jr.  El  Salvador  Land 

Reform,  1980-1981:  Impact  Audit.  Boston:  OXFAM  America, 

1981. 

Steel,  R.W.  (ed.).  Latin  America:  A  Regional  Geography,  London: 
Longmans,  Green,  1960. 

Stephen,  David,  and  Phillip  Wearne.  Central  America's  Indians. 
(Report  No.  62.)  London:  Minority  Rights  Group,  1984. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  "El  Salvador."  Pages 
69-70  in  World  Factbook.  Washington:  1988. 

 .  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  Social  Secur- 
ity Administration.  Social  Security  Programs  Throughout  the  World, 
1985.  (Research  Report  No.  60.)  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

West,  Robert  C,  and  John  P.  Augelli  (eds.).  Middle  America:  Its 
Lands  and  Peoples .  Engle  wood  Cliffs,  New  Jersey:  Prentice- Hall, 
1966. 


272 


Bibliography 


White,  Alastair.  El  Salvador.  (Nations  of  the  Modern  World  Series.) 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 
 Squatter  Settlements,  Politics,  and  Class  Conflict.  (Occasional 

Papers,  No.  17.)  Glasgow:  Institute  of  Latin  American  Studies, 

University  of  Glasgow,  1975. 
Williams,  Robert  G.  Export  Agriculture  and  the  Crisis  in  Central  America. 

Chapel  Hill:  University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  1986. 
Women's  International  Resource  Exchange.  Women  and  War:  El 

Salvador.  New  York:  1980. 


Chapter  3 

Banco  Central  de  Reserva  de  El  Salvador.  Revista  Trimestral: 

Octubre-Diciembre,  1987.  San  Salvador:  1988. 
Browning,  David.  El  Salvador:  Landscape  and  Society.  London:  Oxford 

University  Press,  1971. 
Centro  America,  1988.  Guatemala  City:  Inforpress  Centroamericana, 

1988. 

Comision  Economica  para  America  Latina  (CEPAL).  El  Desarrollo 
de  America  Latina  y  sus  Repercusiones  en  la  Educacion:  Alfabetismo  y 
Escolaridad  Bdsica.  Santiago,  Chile:  1982. 

-  Estudio  Economico  de  America  Latina y  El  Caribe,  1981:  El  Sal- 
vador. Santiago,  Chile:  1982. 
.,  Estudio  Economico  de  America  Latina y  El  Caribe,  1986:  El  Sal- 

vador. Santiago,  Chile:  1987. 

Direction  of  Trade  Statistics  Yearbook,  1988.  Washington:  International 
Monetary  Fund,  1988. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Profile:  Guatemala,  El  Salvador, 
Honduras.  London:  1987. 

 Country  Profile:  Guatemala,  El  Salvador,  Honduras.  London: 

1988. 

 Country  Report:  Guatemala,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  No.  3.  Lon- 
don: 1988. 

 Country  Report:  Guatemala,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  No.  4.  Lon- 
don: 1988. 

El  Salvador.  Ministerio  de  Planificacion  y  Coordinacion  del  Desar- 
rollo Economico  y  Social.  Estado  Actual  del  Programa  de  Reconstruccion 
por  Fuente  Financiera.  San  Salvador:  1987. 

 Ministerio  de  Planificacion  y  Coordinacion  del  Desarrollo 

Economico  y  Social.  Evaluacion  General  del  Programa  Economico  de 
1988.  San  Salvador:  1987. 

 Ministerio  de  Planificacion  y  Coordinacion  del  Desarrollo 

Economico  y  Social.  Indicadores  Economicos  y  Sociales,  Enero- 
Diciembre  1984.  San  Salvador:  1985. 


273 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


 Ministerio  de  Planificacion  y  Coordination  del  Desarrollo 

Economico  y  Social.  Memoria  de  Labores.  San  Salvador:  1982. 

Garcia  G. ,  Rigoberto.  Un  Pais  Pequeno  con  Problemas  Gigantes:  El  Sal- 
vador. (Occasional  Papers  Series.)  Stockholm:  Institute  of  Latin 
American  Studies,  November  1981. 

Government  Finance  Statistics  Yearbook,  1986.  Washington:  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund,  1986. 

Herold,  Marc  W.  1 ' Finanzekapital  in  El  Salvador,  1900-80,"  Eco- 
nomic Forum,  14,  No.  1,  Summer  1983,  79-94. 

Ink,  Dwight  A.  "Statement  Before  the  Subcommittee  on  Foreign 
Relations."  United  States.  Congress.  100th,  2d  Session.  House 
of  Representatives.  Committee  on  Appropriations.  (Hearings 
April  21,  1987.)  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

Inter- American  Development  Bank.  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in 
Latin  America,  1971.  Washington:  1972. 

 Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America,  1973.  Washing- 
ton: 1974. 

 Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America,  1979.  Washing- 
ton: 1980. 

 Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America,  1985.  Washing- 
ton: 1986. 

 Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America,  1986.  Washing- 
ton: 1987. 

 Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin  America,  1987.  Washing- 
ton: 1988. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Balance  of  Payments  Statistics,  38. 
Washington:  1987. 

 El  Salvador:  Recent  Economic  Developments.  Washington: 

November  6,  1984. 

 Exchange  Arrangements  and  Exchange  Restrictions.  Washing- 
ton: 1987. 

 .  International  Financial  Statistics,  41,  No.  4.  Washington:  April 

1988. 

 International  Financial  Statistics,  41,  No.  12.  Washington: 

December  1988. 
North,  Liisa.  Bitter  Grounds:  Roots  of  Revolt  in  El  Salvador.  Westport, 

Connecticut:  Lawrence  Hill,  1985. 
Russell,  Philip  L.  El  Salvador  in  Crisis.  Austin,  Texas:  Colorado 

River  Press,  1984. 
Siri,  Gabriel.  El  Salvador  and  Economic  Integration  in  Central  America. 

Lexington,  Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1984. 
United  Nations.  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization.  FAO  Production 

Yearbook,  40.  Rome:  1986. 
 Fishery  Country  Profile:  El  Salvador.  Rome:  January  1986. 


274 


Bibliography 


 Food  Aid  in  Figures.  Rome:  1986. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  Economic  and  Energy  Indi- 
cators. Washington:  June  3,  1988. 

 Central  Intelligence  Agency.  "El  Salvador."  Pages  69-70 

in  World  Factbook.  Washington:  1988. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  Foreign  Economic  Trends:  El  Sal- 
vador. (Report  87-51.)  Washington:  GPO,  July  1987. 

 .  Department  of  Commerce.  National  Oceanic  and  At- 
mospheric Administration.  National  Marine  Fisheries  Service. 
Capture  and  Aquaculture  Fisheries:  Impact  on  U.  S.  Seafood  Markets. 
Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 .  Department  of  Health  and  Human  Services.  Social  Se- 
curity Administration.  Social  Security  Programs  Throughout  the 
World,  1985.  (Research  Report  No.  60.)  Washington:  GPO, 
1986. 

 .  Department  of  State,  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  Background 

Notes:  El  Salvador.  (Department  of  State  Publication,  7794.) 
Washington:  GPO,  November  1987. 

Wharton  Econometric  Forecasting  Associates.  Latin  American  Eco- 
nomic Outlook.  Philadelphia:  Spring  1987. 

Wilkie,  James  W. ,  and  David  Lorey  (eds.).  Statistical  Abstract  of  Latin 
America,  25.  Los  Angeles:  UCLA  Latin  American  Center,  1987. 

World  Bank.  World  Debt  Tables,  1987-88.  Washington:  1988. 

 World  Development  Indicators,  1988.  Washington:  1988. 

Yearbook  of  International  Trade  Statistics,  1985.  New  York:  United  Na- 
tions, 1986. 

Year-Book  of  Labour  Statistics.  (47th  ed.)  Geneva:  International  Labour 
Organisation,  1987. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Central  America  Report  [Guatemala 
City],  March  198  7 -January  1988;  Christian  Science  Monitor ,  March 
1988;  Latin  American  Monitor  [London],  February  1986;  Latin  America 
Regional  Reports:  Mexico  and  Central  America  [London],  July  1987; 
Newsweek,  June  1982;  New  York  Times,  January  1986-  March  1988; 
Wall  Street  Journal,  March  1982 -February  1988;  and  Washington  Post, 
May  1982-February  1988.) 


Chapter  4 

Arana,  Ana.  "Real  News  in  El  Salvador,"  Columbia  Journalism 
Review,  26,  No.  6,  March- April  1988,  10,  12. 


275 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Bagley,  Bruce  Michael.  "Contadora:  The  Failure  of  Diplomacy," 
Journal  of  Interamerican  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  28,  No.  3,  Fall 
1986,  1-32. 

Bakhtiari,  Bahman.  "Revolution  and  the  Church  in  Nicaragua 
and  El  Salvador ,"  Journal  of  Church  and  State,  28,  No.  1,  Winter 
1986,  15-42. 

Baloyra,  Enrique  A.  El  Salvador  in  Transition.  Chapel  Hill:  University 

of  North  Carolina  Press,  1982. 
 "Negotiating  War  in  El  Salvador:  The  Politics  of  End- 
game, "Journal  of  Interamerican  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  28,  No.  2, 

Spring  1986,  123-47. 
 "Political  Change  in  El  Salvador?"  Current  History,  83, 

No.  490,  February  1984,  54-58,  85-87. 
 "The  Seven  Plagues  of  El  Salvador,"  Current  History,  86, 

No.  524,  December  1987,  413-16,  433-34. 
Bell,  Judith.  "El  Salvador-Honduras."  Pages  372-74  in  Alan  J.  Day 

(ed.),  Border  and  Territorial  Disputes.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1982. 
Blaustein,  Albert  P.,  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.).  Constitutions  of 

the  Countries  of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1984. 
"Central  America:  New  Peace  Efforts."  Pages  203-12  in  Strategic 

Survey,  1987-88.  London:  International  Institute  for  Strategic 

Studies,  1988. 

Chitnis,  Pratap  C.  "Observing  El  Salvador:  The  1984  Elections," 
Third  World  Quarterly,  6,  No.  4,  October  1984,  963-80. 

El  Salvador.  "Codigo  Electoral,"  Diario  Official  [San  Salvador], 
298,  No.  12,  January  19,  1988,  3-35. 

 .  Secretaria  de  Information  de  la  Presidencia  de  la  Repub- 

lica.  El  Salvador  de  Hoy,  1979.  San  Salvador:  1979. 

"El  Salvador:  Introductory  Survey."  Pages  975-89  in  The  Europa 
Year  Book,  1987:  A  World  Survey.  London:  Europa,  1987. 

Farer,  Tom  J.  "Contadora:  The  Hidden  Agenda,"  Foreign  Policy, 
No.  59,  Summer  1985,  59-72. 

Garcia,  Jose  Z.  "El  Salvador:  A  Glimmer  of  Hope,"  Current  His- 
tory, 85,  No.  515,  December  1986,  409-12. 

 .  "El  Salvador:  Legitimizing  the  Government,"  Current  His- 
tory, 84,  No.  500,  March  1985,  101-4,  135-36. 

Gastil,  Raymond  D.,  and  R.  Bruce  McColm.  "The  1984  Presiden- 
tial Elections  in  El  Salvador,"  Freedom  at  Issue,  No.  79,  July- 
August  1984,  16-20. 

Haglund,  David  G.  "The  Missing  Link:  Canada's  Security  In- 
terests and  the  Central  American  Crisis,"  International  Journal 
[Toronto],  42,  No.  4,  Autumn  1987,  789-820. 

Hammer,  Michael  A.  "President  Reagan's  Policy  Toward  El  Sal- 
vador: Success  or  Failure?"  Fletcher  Forum,  12,  No.  1,  Winter 
1988,  89-109. 


276 


Bibliography 


Heberle,  Jack.  "Marxist-Leninist  Unions  in  El  Salvador,"  Free- 
dom at  Issue,  No.  91,  July- August  1986,  24-29. 

Jessup,  David.  "El  Salvador  Unions — The  Real  Story,"  Dissent, 
33,  No.  4,  Fall  1986,  514-18. 

Karl,  Terry  Lynn.  "After  La  Palma:  The  Prospects  for  Democrati- 
zation in  El  Salvador,"  World  Policy  Journal,  2,  Spring  1985, 
305-30. 

 "Exporting  Democracy:  The  Unanticipated  Effects  of 

U.S.  Electoral  Policy  in  El  Salvador."  Pages  173-91  in  Nora 
Hamilton,  Jeffry  A.  Frieden,  Linda  Fuller,  and  Manuel  Pas- 
tor, Jr.  (eds.),  Crisis  in  Central  America:  Regional  Dynamics  and 
U.S.  Policy  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1988. 

Mason,  T.  David.  "Land  Reform  and  the  Breakdown  of  Clien- 
telist  Politics  in  El  Salvador,"  Comparative  Political  Studies,  18, 
No.  4,  January  1986,  487-516. 

Mujal-Leon,  Eusebio.  "European  Socialism  and  the  Crisis  in  Cen- 
tral America,"  Orbis,  28,  No.  1,  Spring  1984,  53-81. 

Nichols,  John  Spicer,  and  Charles  T.  Salmon.  "El  Salvador." 
Pages  317-24  in  George  Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  World  Press  En- 
cyclopedia, 1.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1982. 

Purcell,  Susan  Kaufman.  "The  Choice  in  Central  America,"  For- 
eign Affairs,  66,  No.  1,  1987,  109-28. 

 .  "Demystifying  Contadora,"  Foreign  Affairs,  64,  No.  1,  Fall 

1985,  74-95. 

Robinson,  Linda.  "Peace  in  Central  America?"  Foreign  Affairs,  66, 
No.  3,  1988,  591-613. 

Sanford,  Jonathan  E.  "Major  Trends  in  U.S.  Foreign  Assistance 
to  Central  America,  1978-1986."  (Library  of  Congress,  Con- 
gressional Research  Service,  Report  No.  86-88F.)  Washington: 
April  8,  1986. 

Serafino,  Nina  M.  "Central  American  Compliance  with  the  Au- 
gust 5,  1987,  Peace  Agreement  as  of  November  5,  1987." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  Report 
No.  87-916F.)  Washington:  November  16,  1987. 

Sharpe,  Kenneth  E.  "El  Salvador  Revisited:  Why  Duarte  Is  in 
Trouble,"  World  Policy  Journal,  3,  No.  3,  Summer  1986,  473-94. 

Smyth,  Frank.  "Don't  Put  El  Salvador  in  the  Win  Column  Yet," 
SAIS  Review,  6,  No.  2,  Summer-Fall  1986,  59-68. 

Sol,  Ricardo.  El  Salvador:  Medios  Masivos y  Comunicacion  Popular.  San 
Jose,  Costa  Rica:  Editorial  Porvenir,  1984. 

Stein,  Ricardo.  "Civil  War,  Reform,  and  Reaction  in  El  Sal- 
vador." Pages  193-205  in  Nora  Hamilton,  Jeffry  A.  Frieden, 
Linda  Fuller,  and  Manuel  Pastor,  Jr.  (eds.),  Crisis  in  Central 


Til 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


America:  Regional  Dynamics  and  U.S.  Policy  in  the  1980s.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Storrs,  K.  Larry.  "El  Salvador  Aid:  Congressional  Action, 
1981-1986,  on  President  Reagan's  Requests  for  Economic  and 
Military  Assistance  for  El  Salvador. ' '  (Library  of  Congress,  Con- 
gressional Research  Service,  Report  No.  87-230F.)  Washing- 
ton: March  18,  1987. 

 "El  Salvador,  1982-1984:  A  Chronology  of  a  Period  of 

Transition  Resulting  from  the  1982  and  1984  Elections." 
(Library  of  Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  Report 
No.  87-656F.)  Washington:  August  7,  1987. 

 "Land  Reform  in  El  Salvador  since  Promulgation  of  a 

New  Salvadoran  Constitution  in  December  1983."  (Library  of 
Congress,  Congressional  Research  Service,  Report  No.  84-534F.) 
Washington:  February  10,  1984. 

United  States.  Congress.  97th,  2d  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on 
Foreign  Relations.  Report  of  the  U.S.  Official  Observer  Mission  to 
the  El  Salvador  Constituent  Assembly  Elections  of  March  28,  1982. 
Washington:  GPO,  1982. 

 Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Arms  Control  and  Foreign  Policy 
Caucus.  Bankrolling  Failure:  United  States  Policy  in  El  Salvador  and 
the  Urgent  Need  for  Reform.  (Report  submitted  to  Arms  Control 
and  Foreign  Policy  Caucus  by  Senator  Mark  O.  Hatfield, 
Representative  Jim  Leach,  and  Representative  George  Miller, 
November  1987.)  Washington:  1987. 

 Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittee  on  Human  Rights 
and  International  Organizations  and  Subcommittee  on  Western 
Hemisphere  Affairs.  Human  Rights  and  Political  Developments  in  El 
Salvador,  1987.  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  "El  Sal- 
vador," Gist,  June  1982. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  "El  Salvador: 

Revolution  or  Reform?"  Current  Policy,  No.  546,  February  1984. 

Weiner,  Lauren.  "The  Contadora  Process:  Something  for  Every- 
one, Solving  Nothing,"  National  Interest,  No.  4,  Summer  1986, 
65-73. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Christian  Science  Monitor,  July 

1984-  December  1987;  Latin  American  Monitor:  Central  America,  [Lon- 
don], May-June  1985;  Latin  American  Weekly  Report  [London],  June 

1985-  May    1988;    Latin   America   Regional  Reports:  Mexico 


278 


Bibliography 


and  Central  America,  May  1985-June  1988;  New  York  Times,  June 
1983-June  1988  and  Washington  Post,  March  1987-July  1988.) 


Chapter  5 

Americas  Watch.  The  Civilian  Toll,  1986-1987:  Ninth  Supplement  to 
the  Report  on  Human  Rights  in  El  Salvador.  New  York:  1987. 

Anderson,  Thomas  P.  Matanza:  El  Salvador's  Communist  Revolt  of 
1932.  Lincoln:  University  of  Nebraska  Press,  1971. 

Arbucle,  Tammy.  "Same  Hardware,  Same  Tactics,  Same  Con- 
clusion in  El  Salvador?"  Armed  Forces  Journal  International,  123, 
December  1985,  46,  48,  52,  56,  58. 

Baloyra,  Enrique  A.  El  Salvador  in  Transition.  Chapel  Hill:  University 
of  North  Carolina  Press,  1982. 

 "Negotiating  War  in  El  Salvador:  The  Politics  of  End- 
game, "Journal  of  Interamerican  Studies  and  World  Affairs,  28,  No.  2, 
Spring  1986,  123-47. 

Boyd,  Larry.  "El  Salvador's  Armed  Forces,"  Jane's  Defence  Weekly 
[London],  4,  June  28,  1986,  1260-61. 

Breene,  Robert  G.,  Jr.  "Salvador  Sitrep,"  Soldier  of  Fortune,  12, 
September  1987,  40-44. 

Christian,  Shirley.  "El  Salvador's  Divided  Military, ' '  Atlantic  Monthly, 
251,  June  1983,  50-53,  57-60. 

Devine,  Frank.  El  Salvador:  Embassy  under  Attack.  New  York:  Van- 
tage Press,  1981. 

DeWind,  Adrian  W.,  and  Stephen  L.  Kass.  "Justice  in  El  Sal- 
vador: A  Report  of  a  Mission  of  Inquiry  of  the  Association  of 
the  Bar  of  the  City,"  Record  of  the  Association  of  the  Bar  of  the  City 
of  New  York,  38,  March  1983,  112-39. 

DeYoung,  Karen.  "White  Hand:  How  the  Peace  was  Lost  in  El 
Salvador,"  Mother  Jones,  6,  June  1981,  26-36,  45-48. 

Dickey,  Christopher.  "Behind  the  Death  Squads:  Who  They  Are, 
How  They  Work,  and  Why  No  One  Can  Stop  Them,"  New 
Republic,  189,  December  26,  1983,  16-21. 

Diskin,  Martin.  The  Impact  of  U.S.  Policy  in  El  Salvador,  1979-1985. 
Berkeley:  Institute  of  International  Studies,  University  of  Califor- 
nia, 1986. 

El  Salvador.  Ministerio  de  Justicia.  Codigo  Penal.  San  Salvador: 
1980. 

"El  Salvador,"  Military  Technology,  10,  No.  12,  December  1986,  97. 

El  Salvador:  Background  to  the  Crisis.  Cambridge,  Massachusetts:  Cen- 
tral America  Information  Office,  1982. 

El  Salvador  under  General  Romero.  London:  Latin  America  Bureau, 
1979. 


279 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


English,  Andrian  J.  Armed  Forces  of  Latin  America:  Their  Histories, 
Development,  Present  Strength,  and  Military  Potential.  London:  Jane's, 
1984. 

 ''Central  American  Navies,"  Navy  International  [London], 

89,  No.  9,  September  1984,  532-35. 
Gettleman,  Marvin  E.,  Patrick  Lacefield,  Louis  Menashe,  and 

David  Mermelstein  (eds.).  El  Salvador:  Central  America  in  the  New 

Cold  War.  New  York:  Grove  Press,  1986. 
Guidos  Vejar,  Rafael.  El  Ascenso  del  Militarismo  en  El  Salvador.  San 

Salvador:  UCA  Editores,  1980. 
Hutson,  Heyward  G.  "Are  the  Salvadoran  Armed  Forces  Ready 

to  Fold?"  World  Affairs,  146,  Winter  1983-84,  263-71. 
Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London],  June  28,  1986,  1243. 
Kapuscinski,  Ryszard.  "The  Soccer  War:  Design  for  a  Central 

American  Battlefield,"  Harper's  Magazine,  272,  June  1986,  17. 
Kelly,  Ross.  "Special  Operations  in  El  Salvador,"  Defense  and  Foreign 

Affairs,  14,  August-September  1986,  56-57,  60. 
Krulak,  Victor  H.  "Strategic  Implications  of  the  Little  War,"  Stra- 
tegic Review,  13,  Spring  1985,  31-36. 
Leiken,  Robert  S.  "Anatomy  of  Resistance,  El  Salvador:  Who  Are 

the  Rebels  and  What  Do  They  Want?"  Worldview,  26,  June  1983, 

5-9. 

Lungo,  Mario.  El  Salvador,  1981-1984.  San  Salvador:  UCA  Edi- 
tores, 1986. 

McClintock,  Michael.  The  American  Connection:  State  Terror  and  Popular 
Resistance  in  El  Salvador,  1.  London:  Zed  Books,  1985. 

 "US  Military  Assistance  to  El  Salvador:  From  Indirect 

to  Direct  Intervention,"  Race  and  Class,  26,  No.  3,  Winter  1985, 
63-82. 

McColm,  R.  Bruce.  El  Salvador.  New  York:  Freedom  House,  1982. 
 "El  Salvador's  Guerrillas:  Structure,  Strategy,  and  .  .  . 

Success?"  Freedom  at  Issue,  No.  74,  September-October  1983, 

3-16. 

McDonald,  Ronald  H.  "El  Salvador:  The  Politics  of  Revolution." 
Pages  528-44  in  Howard  J.  Wiarda  and  Harvey  F.  Kline  (eds.), 
Latin  American  Politics  and  Development.  Boulder,  Colorado:  West- 
view  Press,  1979. 

Maitre,  H.  Joachim.  "The  Dying  War  in  El  Salvador."  Pages 
121-35  in  Walter  F.  Hahn  (ed.),  Central  America  and  the  Reagan 
Doctrine.  Boston:  United  States  Strategic  Institute,  1987. 

 .  "The  Subsiding  War  in  El  Salvador,"  Strategic  Review,  13, 

Winter  1985,  22-29. 

Manwaring,  Max  G.,  and  Court  Prisk  (eds.).  El  Salvador  at  War: 
An  Oral  History.  Washington:  National  Defense  University  Press, 
1988. 


280 


Bibliography 


The  Military  Balance,  1987-1988.  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1987. 
The  Military  Balance,  1988-1989.  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1988. 
Millett,  Richard  L.  "The  Politics  of  Violence:  Guatemala  and  El 

Salvador,"  Current  History,  80,  No.  463,  February  1981,  70-74, 

80. 

 "Praetorians  or  Patriots."  Pages  326-30  in  Robert  S. 

Leiken  and  Barry  Rubin  (eds.),  The  Central  American  Crisis  Reader. 
New  York:  Summit  Books,  1987. 

Pena  Kampy,  Alberto.  El  General  Martinez:  Un  Patriarchal  Presidente 
Dictador.  Santa  Anita,  Mexico:  Editorial  Tip.  Ramirez,  1976. 

Radu,  Michael  S.  "Insurgent  and  Terrorist  Groups  in  Latin  Amer- 
ica." (Research  paper,  No.  MDA908-83-C- 1980.)  Philadelphia: 
Foreign  Policy  Research  Institute,  1984. 

 .  "The  Structure  of  the  Salvadoran  Left,"  Orbis,  28,  Winter 

1985,  673-84. 

Sanford,  Jonathan  E.  "Major  Trends  in  U.S.  Foreign  Assistance 
to  Central  America,  1978-1986."  (Library  of  Congress,  Con- 
gressional Research  Service,  Report  No.  86-88F.)  Washington: 
April  8,  1986. 

Schulz,  Donald  E.  "El  Salvador:  Revolution  and  Counterrevolu- 
tion in  the  Living  Museum."  Pages  189-268  in  Donald  E.  Schulz 
and  Douglas  H.  Graham  (eds.),  Revolution  and  Counterrevolution 
in  Central  America  and  the  Caribbean.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 
Press,  1984. 

Sharpe,  Kenneth  E.,  and  Martin  Diskin.  "Facing  Facts  in  El  Sal- 
vador: Reconciliation  or  War,"  World  Policy  Journal,  1,  Spring 
1984,  517-47. 

Storrs,  K.  Larry.  "El  Salvador  Aid:  Congressional  Action, 
1981-1986,  on  President  Reagan's  Requests  for  Economic  and 
Military  Assistance  for  El  Salvador."  (Library  of  Congress,  Con- 
gressional Research  Service,  Report  No.  87-230F.)  Washing- 
ton: March  18,  1987. 

Storrs,  K.  Larry,  and  Mark  P.  Sullivan.  "El  Salvador:  U.S.  For- 
eign Assistance  Facts."  (Library  of  Congress,  Congressional 
Research  Service,  Major  Issues  System,  IB  85113.)  Washing- 
ton: August  26,  1987. 

Thomas,  Marilyn.  Women  of  El  Salvador.  Philadelphia:  Institute  for 
the  Study  of  Human  Issues,  1986. 

United  States.  Congress.  97th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representa- 
tives. Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  U.S.  Policy  Options  in  El 
Salvador.  Washington:  GPO,  1981. 


281 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


 .  Congress.  97th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  U.S.  Policy  Toward  El  Salvador. 
Washington:  GPO,  1981. 

 .  Congress.  97th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  The  Situation  in  El  Salvador.  Washington:  GPO, 
1981. 

 .  Congress.  97th,  2d  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  Certification  Concerning  Military  Aid  to  El  Salvador. 
Washington:  GPO,  1982. 

 .  Congress.  98th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Human  Rights  in  El  Salvador. 
Washington:  GPO,  1983. 

 Congress.  98th,  1st  Session.  Senate.  Committee  on  For- 
eign Relations.  Presidential  Certification  on  Progress  in  El  Salvador. 
Washington:  GPO,  1983. 

 Congress.  98th,  2d  Session.  Senate.  Select  Committee  on 

Intelligence.  Recent  Political  Violence  in  El  Salvador.  (98-659.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1984. 

 Congress.  99th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Developments  in  El  Salvador. 
Washington:  GPO,  1985. 

 Congress.  99th,  2d  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  The  Air  War  and  Political  Develop- 
ments in  El  Salvador.  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

 .  Congress.  100th,  1st  Session.  House  of  Representatives. 

Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.  Subcommittee  on  Human  Rights 
and  International  Organizations  and  Subcommittee  on  Western 
Hemisphere  Affairs.  Human  Rights  and  Political  Development  in  El 
Salvador,  1987.  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  "Communist  Interference  in  El  Sal- 
vador." Washington:  GPO,  1981. 

 Department  of  State.  "Report  on  the  Situation  in  El  Sal- 
vador." Washington:  April  1,  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Public  Affairs.  The  Situa- 
tion in  El  Salvador.  (Special  Report  No.  144.)  Washington:  April 
1986. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Office  of  Public  Diplomacy  for  Latin 

America  and  the  Caribbean.  "Victims  of  Guerrilla  Land  Mines 
in  El  Salvador,"  Latin  America  Dispatch,  July  1987,  8. 

 .  Department  of  State  and  Department  of  Defense. 

"Nicaragua's  Military  Build-up  and  Support  for  Central  Ameri- 
can Subversion."  (Background  paper.)  Washington:  GPO,  1984. 

Villalobos  Hueso,  Joaquin.  Why  Is  the  FMLN  Fighting?  San  Sal- 
vador: S.I.,  Sistema  Radio  Venceremos,  1984. 


282 


Bibliography 


Welson,  Linda,  et  al.  DMS  International  Defense  Budget  Forecast.  Green- 
wich, Connecticut  :  Defense  Marketing  Services,  1986. 

Wilkie,  James  W.,  et  al.  Statistical  Abstract  of  Latin  America.  Los 
Angeles:  UCLA  Latin  American  Center,  1988. 

"World  Air  Forces,"  Flight  International  [London],  130,  Novem- 
ber 29,  1986,  51-52.  " 

Zaid,  Gabriel.  "Enemy  Colleagues:  A  Reading  of  the  Salvadoran 
Tragedy,"  Dissent,  29,  Winter  1982,  13-40. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Christian  Science  Monitor;  Financial 
Times;  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Latin 
America;  Jane's  Defence  Weekly  [London];  Latinamerica  Press;  Latin 
American  Monitor  [London];  Latin  American  Weekly  Report  [London]; 
Latin  America  Regional  Reports:  Mexico  and  Central  America  [London]; 
Los  Angeles  Times;  New  York  Times;  Philadelphia  Inquirer;  Wall  Street 
Journal;  Washington  Post;  and  Washington  Times.) 


283 


Glossary 


Central  America — Region  between  Mexico  and  Panama  includ- 
ing present-day  Belize,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  El  Salvador, 
Nicaragua,  and  Costa  Rica. 

Central  American  Common  Market  (CACM) — The  CACM  was 
established  by  the  Organization  of  Central  American  States 
under  the  General  Treaty  of  Central  American  Economic  Inte- 
gration signed  in  Managua,  Nicaragua,  on  December  15,  1960. 
Its  members  include  Costa  Rica,  El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Hon- 
duras, and  Nicaragua.  Its  original  goals  included  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  Central  American  regional  free- trade  area,  a 
customs  union,  and  the  integration  of  the  industrialization  ef- 
forts of  its  member  countries.  Its  efforts  were  curtailed  follow- 
ing the  1969  war  between  El  Salvador  and  Honduras,  when 
the  Hondurans  reestablished  import  duties  on  CACM  products. 
Despite  the  continued  existence  of  the  organization,  most  in- 
traregional  economic  relations  have  been  handled  on  a  bilateral 
basis  since  1970. 

colon — El  Salvador's  monetary  unit,  divided  into  100  centavos. 
The  colon  was  pegged  by  the  government  at  US$1  =  c2.50  until 
November  1986,  when  it  was  officially  devalued  to  US$1  =  <p5 
as  part  of  an  overall  economic  austerity  package.  As  of  late  1988, 
there  was  no  parallel  exchange  market,  but  dollars  could  be 
traded  at  a  higher  rate  on  the  black  market. 

Constituent  Assembly — A  deliberative  body  made  up  of  elected 
delegates  who  are  charged  with  the  responsibility  of  drafting 
a  new  constitution  and,  in  some  instances,  electing  a  new  presi- 
dent. Traditionally,  after  it  has  completed  its  work  a  Consti- 
tuent Assembly  reverts  to  a  Legislative  Assembly  (traditional 
title  of  Salvadoran  legislatures),  which  then  serves  as  the  coun- 
try's legislative  body  until  the  next  scheduled  elections. 

encomienda — A  fiduciary  grant  of  tribute  collection  rights  over  In- 
dians conferred  by  the  Spanish  crown  on  individual  colonists, 
who  in  turn  undertook  to  maintain  order  and  propagate  Chris- 
tianity. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — El  Salvador's  fiscal  year  is  the  calendar  year. 
Where  reference  is  made  to  United  States  aid  appropriations 
or  disbursements,  the  United  States  government's  fiscal  year 
is  used,  which  runs  from  October  1  to  September  30,  with  the 
date  of  reference  drawn  from  the  year  in  which  the  period  ends. 


285 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 

For  example,  FY  1987  began  on  October  1,  1986,  and  ended 
on  September  30,  1987. 
Gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during 
a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value 
contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits, 
compensation  to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of 
capital).  Only  domestic  production  is  included,  not  income  aris- 
ing from  investments  and  possessions  owned  abroad,  hence  the 
use  of  the  word  domestic  to  distinguish  GDP  from  gross  national 
product  (q.v.). 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — The  total  market  value  of  all  final 
goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  during  a  year. 
Obtained  by  adding  the  gross  domestic  product  (q.  v. )  and  the 
income  received  from  abroad  by  residents  and  subtracting  pay- 
ments remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents. 

import  substitution  industrialization — An  economic  development 
strategy  that  emphasizes  the  growth  of  domestic  industries,  often 
by  import  protection  using  tariff  and  nontariff  measures.  Pro- 
ponents favor  the  export  of  industrial  goods  over  primary 
products. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  takes  responsibility  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 
main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers when  they  experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties. 
These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  in- 
ternal economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 

Legislative  Assembly — See  Constituent  Assembly. 

liberation  theology — An  activist  movement  led  by  Roman  Catholic 
clergy  who  trace  their  inspiration  to  Vatican  Council  II  (1965), 
where  some  church  procedures  were  liberalized,  and  the  Se- 
cond Latin  American  Bishops'  Conference  in  Medellm,  Colom- 
bia (1968),  which  endorsed  greater  direct  efforts  to  improve 
the  lot  of  the  poor.  Advocates  of  liberation  theology — sometimes 
referred  to  as  "liberationists" — work  mainly  through  Chris- 
tian Base  Communities  (Comunidades  Eclesiasticas  de  Base — 
CEBs).  Members  of  CEBs  meet  in  small  groups  to  reflect  on 
scripture  and  discuss  its  meaning  in  their  lives.  They  are  in- 
troduced to  a  radical  interpretation  of  the  Bible,  one  that  em- 
ploys Marxist  terminology  to  analyze  and  condemn  the  wide 
disparities  between  the  wealthy  elite  and  the  impoverished 
masses  in  most  underdeveloped  countries.  This  reflection  often 


286 


Glossary 


leads  members  to  organize  to  improve  their  living  standards 
through  cooperatives  and  civic  improvement  projects. 
repartimiento — Derived  from  Spanish  verb  repartir  (to  divide  up);  a 
loosely  regulated  system  under  which  Spanish  colonial  autho- 
rities were  empowered  to  impose  and  regulate  the  labor  of 
Indians. 

terms  of  trade — Number  of  units  that  must  be  given  up  for  one 
unit  of  goods  received  by  each  party,  e.g.,  nation,  to  a  trans- 
action. The  terms  of  trade  are  said  to  move  in  favor  of  the  party 
that  gives  up  fewer  units  of  goods  than  it  did  previously  for 
one  unit  of  goods  received,  and  against  the  party  that  gives 
up  more  units  of  goods  for  one  unit  of  goods  received.  In  in- 
ternational economics,  the  concept  plays  an  important  role  in 
evaluating  exchange  relationships  between  nations. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  ad- 
ministered by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  fur- 
nish credits  to  the  poorest  developing  countries  on  much  easier 
terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  found- 
ed in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through 
loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage  the 
growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less-developed  coun- 
tries. The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the  IBRD 
hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC .  The  three  institutions  are 
owned  by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their 
capital.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group,  member  states 
must  first  belong  to  the  IMF  (q.v.). 


287 


Index 


Acajutla  port,  130 

Act  of  Tegucigalpa  (1984),  187 

AD.  See  Democratic  Action  (Action  Demo- 

cratica:  AD) 
Administration   of  Justice  Program 

(United  States),  232 
administrative  departments,  29,  54-55, 

63;  government  of,  158-59 
Agrarian  Code,  228 
agrarian  reform  {see  also  Land  to  the  Tiller 

decree  (1980);  land  reform),  26-27,  31, 

34,  37,  42,  64,  148,  149-50;  opposition 

to,  174;  phases  of,  86-88;  pressure  for, 

85-88 

agricultural  sector:  exports  from,  6,  60; 
growth  of,  105-6,  109,  118;  production 
of,  69,  106,  107;  workers  in,  62-64 

Aguirre  y  Salinas,  Osmm,  18 

Ahuachapan,  4,  16,  66,  67,  242,  258 

aircraft,  military,  216,  223 

airfields,  130-31 

air  force.  See  Salvadoran  Air  Force 
Alcoa,  138 

Allende  Gossens,  Salvador,  28,  32 

Alliance  for  Progress,  23 

Alvarado,  Pedro  de,  5 

Alvarez,  Enrique,  40 

American  Institute  for  Free  Labor  De- 
velopment (AIFLD),  42,  235 

Americas  Watch,  251 

ammunition  supplies  (to  guerrillas),  242 

amnesty,  156,  184,  233,  246 

Anastasio  Aquino  Paracentral  Front,  243 

Andino,  Mario,  34,  35 

anticlericalism,  10 

anticommunism,  17,  30 

Anti-Imperialist  League,  15 

Antiterrorism  Assistance  Act  (United 
States),  232 

Antiterrorist  Infantry  Battalions  (Batal- 
lones  de  Infantena  Antiterrorista: 
BIAT),  213,  247 

Apolinario  Serrano  Northern  Front,  243 

Apopa,  xxv 

Aquino,  Anastasio,  xx,  3,  11,  16 
Araujo,  Arturo,  14,  15,  17,  200 
Araujo,  Manuel  Enrique,  12,  200,  227 
Arce,  Manuel  Jose,  199 


Arena.  See  Nationalist  Republican  Alli- 
ance (Alianza  Republicana  Nacional- 
ista:  Arena) 

Argentina,  187,  226 

Arias  Plan.  See  Central  American  Peace 
Agreement  (1987) 

Arias  Sanchez,  Oscar,  188-89,  191,  246 

armed  forces  (see  also  military  branch;  of- 
ficer corps):  active  members  of,  208; 
control  by,  4;  in  FMLN  1989  offensive, 
xxvii;  mission  of,  208;  personnel  involved 
in  murder,  xxvii;  rank  structure  of,  212; 
role  in  civic  action  projects  of,  217;  role 
in  El  Salvador  for,  11,  23-24,  156-58 

Armed  Forces  Day,  199 

Armed  Forces  Military  Training  Center 
(Centro  de  Entrenamiento  Militar  de 
las  Fuerzas  Armadas:  CEMFA),  219 

Armed  Forces  of  Liberation  (Fuerzas 
Armadas  de  Liberation:  FAL),  239, 
240,  244 

Armed  Forces  of  National  Resistance 
(Fuerzas  Armadas  de  Resistencia  Na- 
cional:  FARN),  238,  240,  244 

Arms  and  Services  School  (Escuela  de 
Armas  y  Servicios:  EAS),  219 

army.  See  Salvadoran  Army 

Army  Headquarters,  216 

Army  Medical  Service,  217 

assassinations,  xxv,  12,  32,  33,  94,  235, 
242,  247,  252 

Assemblies  of  God,  95 

assimilation  of  Indian  population,  66 

Association  of  Coffee  Processors  and 
Exporters  (Asociacion  de  Beneficia- 
dores  y  Exportadores  de  Cafe:  Abe- 
cafe),  173 

Association  of  Salvadoran  Industrialists 
(Asociacion  Salvadorena  de  Industri- 
als: ASI),  173 

associations  of  elite,  61 

Atlacatl,  5 

Attack  Squadron,  216 

Authentic  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido 

Autentico  Revolucionario:  PAR),  173 
Autonomous  Executive  Port  Commission 

(Comision  Ejecutiva  Portuaria  Auton- 

oma:  CEPA),  117 


289 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Avalos,  Jose,  35 
Ayagualo,  245 
Aztecs,  4 

balance  of  payments  {see  also  current 

account),  112,  134,  137 
Baloyra,  Enrique,  32 
banking  system,  112-13 
barriers  to  trade,  104 
Barrios,  Gerardo,  144,  199 
Belgium,  133,  193 

Benavides,  Guillermo  Alfredo,  xxvii- 
xxviii 

Betancur  Cuartas,  Belisario,  186 
birth  rate,  57-58 

Blandon  Mejfa,  Adolfo  Onecifero,  204, 

207,  247-48,  259 
Bolivar,  Simon,  7 
bombings,  233 

BPR.  See  Revolutionary  Popular  Bloc 
(Bloque  Popular  Revolucionario: 
BPR),  31,  237,  239 

Brazil,  32,  187 

Britain,  193 

Broad  Opposition  Front  (Nicaragua),  33 
budget,  government,  105,  114 
Bush,  George,  235 
Butters,  Charles,  129 

Cabanas  Department,  54,  63,  68,  76,  77, 

89,  90,  204,  242,  243,  248 
cacao,  xix,  6 

CACM.  See  Central  American  Common 
Market  (CACM) 

Calderon  Sol,  Armando,  166,  168 

campesinos,  3,  11,  14,  16,  89 

Canada:  economic  assistance  from,  193; 
trade  with,  134 

Canessa,  Roberto,  20 

capital:  flight  of,  104,  113, 128, 133;  foreign 
inflow  of,  137-38;  formation,  104,  111 

capital  punishment,  150 

Captaincy  General  of  Guatemala,  6,  7 

Captain  General  Gerardo  Barrios  Mili- 
tary Academy  (Escuela  Militar  Capi- 
tan  General  Gerardo  Barrios),  xxvii, 
62,  168,  199,  218 

Caribbean  Basin,  50 

Caribbean  Plate,  50 

Caribbean  Sea,  53 

Carpio,  Salvador  Cayetano  ("Marcial"), 
30,  237,  241 


Carranza,  Nicolas,  203,  220,  230,  235 

Carrera,  Rafael,  9 

Carretera  Litoral,  123,  130 

Carter  (Jimmy)  administration,  41,  42, 

182,  185,  223,  224,  231-32 
Casteneda  Castro,  Salvador,  18 
Castillo,  Fabio,  21,  24 
Castro  Ruz,  Fidel,  20,  22,  24,  40,  238 
cattle  grazing,  63 

CD.  See  Democratic  Convergence  (Con- 
vergencia  Democratica:  CD) 

cease-fire  (provisional),  190 

CEBs.  See  Christian  Base  Communities 
(Comunidades  Eclesiasticas  de  Base: 
CEBs) 

Center  for  Fisheries  Development  (Cen- 

tro  de  Desarrollo  Pesquero:  Cende- 

pesca),  124-25 
Central  America  {see  also  United  Provinces 

of  Central  America),  xxviii,  4,  6,  49,  50; 

unification  efforts  for,  13-14 
Central  American  Air  Transport  (Trans- 

portes   Aereos  Centroamericanos: 

Taca),  130 
Central   American   Common  Market 

(CACM),  25,  26,  79,  102,  104,  126-28, 

133,  134;  development  and  decline  of, 

136-38 

Central  American  Defense  Council  (Con- 
sejo  de  Defensa  Centroamericano: 
Condeca),  212 

Central  American  Federation  (1823-41) 
{see  also  United  Provinces  of  Central 
America),  xix 

Central  American  Mission  (CAM),  95 

Central  American  Peace  Agreement 
(1987),  xxviii,  143,  184,  188-90,  206, 
233,  236,  245,  246 

Central  American  Socialist  Party,  15 

Central  American  University  Jose  Simeon 
Caiias  (Universidad  Centroamericana 
Jose  Simeon  Canas:  UCA),  xxvii,  34, 
67,  84-85,  165 

Central  Electoral  Council,  20,  28,  29, 
159-62,  166 

central  plateau,  50,  51,  53 

Central  Reserve  Bank  of  El  Salvador 
(Banco  Central  de  Reserva  de  El  Sal- 
vador: BCR):  functions  of,  111-12,  114 

CEPA.  See  Autonomous  Executive  Port 
Commission  (Comision  Ejecutiva  Por- 
tuaria  Autonoma:  CEPA) 

Cerezo  Arevalo,  Marco  Vinicio,  188,  190 


290 


Index 


Cerron  Grande  Dam,  51 
Cerron  Grande  power  plant,  133 
Chalatenango  Department,  41,  54,  63, 

68,  76,  77,  88,  89,  90,  243,  248,  259 
Chavez  Mena,  Fidel,  xxiii,  166-67 
Chavez  y  Gonzalez,  Luis  (archbishop), 

92-94 
chemical  industry,  127 
Chile,  22,  28,  32;  military  missions  from, 

223;  relations  with,  200 
China,  193 

Christian  Base  Communities  (Comuni- 
dades  Eclesiasticas  de  Base:  CEBs),  31, 

32,  93-95 

Christian  democratic  movement,  22,  27, 

33,  146 

Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Dem- 
ocrata  Cristiano:  PDC)  {see  also  Duarte 
Fuentes,  Jose  Napoleon),  xxi,  xxiii- 
xxiv,  4,  21-24,  25,  26-27,  28,  29,  35, 
36,  37,  38,  44,  92,  146-48,  162-63, 
168-69,  170,  173,  174,  177-78,  203; 
decline  of,  185;  opposition  to,  174-75; 
role  of,  163-67 

church  women  murders,  38,  42, 252, 255 

Cinco  de  Noviembre  power  plant,  133 

civic  action  program  {see  also  literacy  cam- 
paign; public  health  program;  road  sys- 
tem), 217-18,  248,  250 

Civic  Guard  (Guardia  Ci'vica),  228 

Civil  Chamber  (of  Supreme  Court),  155 

civil  conflict,  xxi,  xxii,  4,  49,  76,  101,  109, 
165,  176,  182 

Civil  Defense  (Defensa  Civil:  DC),  229 

civil  defense  law,  229 

Civil-Military  Directorate  (Directorio 
Ci'vico-Militar),  203 

Claramount  Rozeville,  Ernesto,  32 

climate,  51,  53 

coast  guard  functions,  216 

Cocos  Plate,  50 

coffee,  51,  59 

coffee  growers:  power  of,  10-11,  13 

Coffee  Growers  Association  (Asociacion 
Cafetalera),  13 

coffee  industry,  xix,  9-11,  13,  14,  15,  60, 
63,  75,  79,  102,  104,  110,  120-21;  ef- 
fect on  economic  structure  of,  59-60, 
118;  government  intervention  in,  107; 
production  in,  106,  121-22 

coffee  republic,  10 

Colombia,  92,  186 

colonos,  62,  63 


combat  units,  army,  213 

Command  and  General  Staff  School  (Es- 

cuela  de  Mando  y  Estado  Mayor 

General),  218-19,  223 
Commercial  Farm  Bank,  113 
Communist  Party  of  El  Salvador  (Partido 

Comunista  de  El  Salvador:  PCES),  15, 

16,  28,  30,  31,  39,  228,  237-39,  240, 

244 

communist  theory,  15,  21-22,  30-31 

conscription,  209-10 

Constituent  Assembly,  22,  43-44,  145- 

50,  159,  162,  164,  167;  elections  for, 

43-44 

Constitution  (1983)  {see  also  agrarian  re- 
form), xx,  87-88,  145-52,  174,  181, 
204,  208 

Constitutional  Chamber  (of  Supreme 
Court),  155 

constitutions,  11-12,  144-45 

construction  industry,  107,  109,  128-29 

Contadora  process,  186-88 

Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  Crimes  Against  Inter- 
nationally Protected  Persons,  254 

corn,  124 

corruption,  165 

Cortez,  Hernan,  5 

Costa  Rica,  xxviii,  7,  13,  121,  181,  187 

cottage  industries,  127 

cotton  industry,  60,  63,  75,  79,  102,  104, 
107,  118,  121,  123 

counterinsurgency,  xxvii,  30,  248;  orien- 
tation of  Orden,  30;  policy  of,  202,  203, 
206,  225;  training  for,  224 

Countersubversion  Infantry  Battalions 
(Batallones  de  Infanteria  para  Con- 
trasubversion:  BIC),  247 

counterterrorism  assistance,  232 

coups  d'etat:  in  1885,  12;  in  1894,  12;  in 
1898,  12;  in  1931,  15,  200;  in  1944,  18, 
201;  in  1948,  18,  201;  in  1960,  21;  in 
1961,  21;  in  1979,  xx,  xxi,  34,  40,  41, 
143,  197,  203,  224;  attempt  in  1972, 
29,  30 

Court  of  Accounts,  155 

courts  of  appeal,  156 

court  system  {see  also  military  justice), 
155-56 

Credit  and  Savings  Bank,  113 
Criminal  Chamber  (of  Supreme  Court), 

155 
criollos,  6 


291 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Cristiani  Burkard,  Alfredo,  xxiii-xxiv, 
xxvi,  xxvii,  xxviii,  168,  169,  185 

CRM.  See  Revolutionary  Coordinator  of 
the  Masses  (Coordinadora  Revolu- 
cionaria  de  las  Masas:  CRM) 

Cuba,  xxi,  20,  24,  31,  39;  support  for 
FMLN  by,  232;  support  for  guerrillas 
by,  4;  training  for  PCES,  239 

Cuban  Revolution,  21 

currency  (colon):  84,  105;  devaluation  of, 
111,  165 

current  account,  114,  133 

Cuscatlan,  5 

Cuscatlan  Department,  55,  68,  88,  89, 
90,  242 

Customs  Police  (Policfa  de  Aduana),  230, 
231 


Dada,  Hector,  35,  36 

Dalton,  Roque,  237-38 

D'Aubuisson  Arrieta,  Roberto,  xxiii,  35, 
36,  38,  44-45,  147,  149,  162,  163, 
167-68,  170,  172-73,  185,  207, 
219-20,  234,  252 

death  squads  (see  also  White  Hand  (Mano 
Blanca);  White  Warriors  Union  (Union 
de  Guerreros  Blancos);  Maximiliano 
Hernandez  Martinez  Brigade),  32,  35, 
36,  233;  murders  by,  235-36;  origin 
and  development  of,  234;  threats  by, 
235;  United  States  concern  about, 
235-36 

debt,  external,  114,  134,  138-39 
Decree  50  courts,  253 
defense  budget,  209 
Delvalle,  Eric  Arturo,  183 
demilitarized  border  zone,  244 
Democratic  Action  (Accion  Democratica: 

AD),  146,  149,  163,  173 
Democratic  Convergence  (Convergencia 

Den.ocratica:  CD),  xx,  xxiv,  xxv,  xxvi, 

172 

Democratic  Front  (Frente  Democratico), 
239 

Democratic  Workers'  Confederation  (Con- 
federation de  Trabaj adores  Democra- 
ticos:  CTD),  176 

Denmark,  223 

Department  of  Investigations  (Depar- 
tamento  de  Investigaciones),  230 

departments.  See  administrative  depart- 
ments 


depression,  world,  14,  60,  64 
deprivation,  3 

disease  and  illness,  3,  70-71 

DRU.  See  Unified  Revolutionary  Direc- 
torate (Direccion  Revolucionaria 
Unificada:  DRU) 

dry  season  (verano),  53 

Duarte,  Alejandro,  165,  166 

Duarte  Duran,  Ines  Guadalupe,  164,  172, 
205,  245 

Duarte  Fuentes,  Jose  Napoleon,  xxi-xxv, 
22-23,  25,  27-30,  32,  35-36,  43-44, 
157,  162,  164,  168,  170,  173,  189,  190, 
192-93,  203,  220,  252, 245-46,  253-54; 
administration  of,  xxii-xxiii,  107-9,  138, 
164-67,  172,  174-77,  180,  183-87,  204- 
8,  230,  236;  pact  with  UPD,  175-76 

Duefias,  Francisco,  199 

earthquake  (1986),  129,  134,  193 

earthquake  activity,  50,  82 

economic  assistance  from  United  States, 
22-23,  41,  43,  114-15,  120,  133, 
182-83,  224-25 

economic  development,  101-2 

economic  performance,  23,  59,  104-5, 
109,  118;  recession  (1928-31),  14-15 

economic  stabilization  program,  105,  110 

Economic  Support  Funds  (ESF),  183 

education  system  (see  also  literacy  cam- 
paign; military  training),  73-74,  83-84 

El  Cajon  hydroelectric  power  plant,  133 

elections,  xx,  xxiii-xxiv,  15,  18,  20,  22, 
23,  24,  26,  27-29,  32,  43-44,  143,  164, 
167,  168,  169,  171-72,  173,  203 

Electoral  Code,  xxiv,  159,  162,  164 

electoral  procedures,  159-63 

Electoral  Register,  159 

electoral  system,  23 

electricity  industry,  102 

electric  power  plants,  133 

El  Parafso,  259 

Embalse  Cerron  Grande  (reservoir),  51 
EMC.  See  Joint  General  Staff  (Estado 

Mayor  Conjunto:  EMC) 
emigration,  74,  76,  109 
employment  (see  also  underemployment; 

unemployment),  109 
encomienda  system,  6 
energy:  consumption,  133;  production, 

131,  133;  purchase  of,  133. 
ERP.  See  People's  Revolutionary  Army 


292 


Index 


(Ejercito  Revolucionario  del  Pueblo: 
ERP) 

Erzeta,  Carlos,  12,  200 

Escalon,  Pedro  Jose,  12 

Esquipulas,  143,  184,  188,  189 

Esquipulas  II.  See  Central  American 
Peace  Agreement  (1987) 

ethnicity,  53-54 

Europe,  Eastern,  239 

Europe,  Western,  40,  192 

exchange  rate:  controls  for,  111;  unifica- 
tion of,  110,  111 

exchange  rate  policy  (see  also  currency), 
107,  136;  dual,  137 

executive  branch,  152-53 

export  duties,  113-14 

export  promotion,  110,  136,  138 

exports:  of  agricultural  commodities, 
xix-xx,  6-7,  9;  of  coffee,  9,  59,  102, 
106,  120,  134-35;  of  cotton,  123;  offish 
products,  124;  of  manufactured 
products,  127-28;  performance  and  de- 
pendence, 133-34;  of  sugar,  134 

fascism,  17 

FAPU.  See  United  Popular  Action  Front 
(Frente  de  Accion  Popular  Unidad: 
FAPU) 

Farabundo  Marti  National  Liberation 
Front  (Frente  Farabundo  Marti  de 
Liberacion  Nacional:  FMLN)  (see  also 
guerrilla  activity,  FMLN),  xx,  xxiv, 
40-41,  44,  45,  84,  89-90,  129,  143,  146, 
157,  165,  171-72,  175-77,  180,  182, 
189-90,  191,  192,  198,  206,  224,  232; 
concessions  and  demands  of  (1989), 
xxiv-xxv;  formation  of,  240;  guerrilla 
activity  of,  236-47;  offensive  (1989)  of, 
xxvi-xxviii;  war  fronts  of,  242-43 

Farabundo  Marti  Popular  Liberation 
Forces  (Fuerzas  Populares  de  Libera- 
cion Farabundo  Marti:  FPL),  30,  31 

farming,  63,  68 

FDR.  See  Revolutionary  Democratic 
Front  (Frente  Democratico  Revolu- 
cionario: FDR) 

Federation  of  Salvadoran  Christian 
Peasants  (Federacion  de  Campesinos 
Cristianos  Salvadorefios:  Feccas),  237 

Federation  of  Unions  of  the  Construction 
Industry  and  Kindred  Activities, 
Transportation,  and  Other  Activities 


(Fesinconstrans),  176,  177-78 

Feliciano  Amo  Western  Front,  242 

fertility  rates,  57-58 

Fesinconstrans.  See  Federation  of  Unions 
of  the  Construction  Industry  and  Kin- 
dred Activities,  Transportation,  and 
Other  Activities 

fiscal  policy  (see  also  tax  system),  110, 
114-15 

fishing  industry,  124-25 

flood,  129 

FMLN.  See  Farabundo  Marti  National 
Liberation  Front  (Frente  Farabundo 
Marti  de  Liberacion  Nacional:  FMLN) 

Foreign  Assistance  Act  (1974),  232 

foreign  direct  investment,  137-38 

foreign  policy,  xxviii,  182-93 

Forensic  Unit,  255-56 

forest  products  industry,  126 

FPL.  &e  Popular  Liberation  Forces  (Fuer- 
zas Populares  de  Liberacion:  FPL) 

France:  military  supplies  from,  223; 
recognition  of  FMLN-FDR,  41;  rela- 
tions with,  193 

Francisco  Sanchez  Eastern  Front,  243 

freedom  of  expression,  180-82 

Free  Fatherland  (Patria  Libre),  172 

free-trade  zone,  136 

free-zone  area,  79 

FSLN.  See  Sandinista  National  Liberation 
Front  (Frente  Sandinista  de  Liberacion 
Nacional:  FSLN) 

fuel  sources,  131 


Garcia,  Guillermo,  35,  36,  38,  203-4, 
220,  247 

General  Association  of  Salvadoran 
University  Students  (Asociacion  Gen- 
eral de  Estudiantes  Universitarios  Sal- 
vadorefios: AGEUS),  177 

General  Command  (DRU),  240 

General  Confederation  of  Unions  (Con- 
federacion  General  de  Sindicatos: 
CGS),  178 

geography,  49-53 

geology,  49-50 

geothermal  power,  131,  133 

Germany,  223 

Germany,  Nazi,  17 

Germany,  West,  193,  227 

GN.  See  National  Guard  (Guardia  Na- 
cional: GN) 


293 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Golcher,  Rinaldo,  230,  234 

Golfo  de  Fonseca,  13-14,  49,  51 

Gonzalez,  Leonel,  240 

Gonzalez,  Santiago,  12,  144 

government  administration,  152-58 

government  intervention:  in  coffee  indus- 
try, 121-22;  in  economy,  107,  110;  in 
fisheries,  124-25;  in  labor  market,  111 

grain  production,  118,  123-24 

Greater  Republic  of  Central  America  (Re- 
publica  Mayor  de  Centroamerica),  13 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  101-2, 
104,  113 

Guajoyo  power  plant,  133 

Guatemala,  xxiii,  5,  7,  12,  13,  20,  25,  30, 
32,  50,  95,  121,  143,  184,  187,  246; 
refugees  from  El  Salvador  in,  76;  war 
with  (1906),  200 

Guatemala  Plan.  See  Central  American 
Peace  Agreement  (1987) 

Guazapa  Volcano,  244,  248 

Guerrero  Cienfuegos,  Francisco  Jose, 
162,  169-70 

guerrilla  activity  (see  also  insurgency;  mass 
organizations;  "zones  of  control"),  xx, 
xxi,  xxii,  xxv,  31,  33,  36,  39-40,  41, 
43,  89-90,  161,  202,  224-26,  237,  240, 
241-42;  death  squad  activity  against, 
234;  of  Communist  Party  (PCES),  239; 
sabotage  and  attacks  by,  118,  122,  128, 
129,  130-31,  133,  224-25,  244;  support 
for,  232 

Guevara,  Ernesto  ("Che"),  238 
Gulf  of  Panama,  186 
Gutierrez,  Jaime  Abdul,  34,  38,  203 
Gutierrez,  Rafael,  12 


Handal,  Jorge  Shafik,  xxv,  30,  239,  240, 

244 
Havana,  40 

health  care  system  (see  also  public  health 

program),  71-72,  83,  116 
health  centers,  71-72 
Helicopter  Squadron,  216 
High  Command  (Alto  Mando),  xxv,  13, 

146-47,  156-57,  203,  206,  207,  220, 

245 

Highway  Patrol  (Policfa  de  C aminos), 
230 

Honduras,  7,  13,  50,  53,  187,  226;  rela- 
tions with,  133,  191-92,  226;  Salva- 
doran  squatters  in,  25-26,  54,  75-76, 


191;  treaty  with,  192,  198;  war  in  1969 
with  (Soccer  War),  24-26,  54,  76,  119, 
126,  191-92,  202 

hospitals,  71-72 

housing,  82-83 

human  rights,  36,  42,  184,  198,  221-22; 
abuses  of,  xxviii,  223-24;  Carter  ad- 
ministration policy  for,  42,  231-32; 
military  training  program  for,  219; 
monitoring  office  for,  233;  police  train- 
ing for,  230-31;  Reagan  administration 
policy  for,  43 

Human  Rights  Commission,  148 

Hunter  Bomber  Squadron,  216 

Hunter  Squadron,  216 

"hunter"  tactics,  247 

hydroelectric  power,  131,  133 

Ibanez  de  Campo,  Carlos,  200 

Iberian  Peninsula,  6 

Ilopango,  258 

Ilopango  Air  Base,  216 

Ilopango  International  Airport,  130 

immigration,  13;  to  Canada,  193;  to 

United  States,  184-85,  193 
imports:  dependence  on,  112,  134-35;  of 

food,  123;  of  lumber,  126;  value  of,  134 
import  substitution  policy,  136,  138 
impressment,  211 

Inazucar.  See  National  Sugar  Institute  (In- 
stitute Nacional  de  Azucar:  Inazucar) 
Incafe.  See  National  Coffee  Institute  (In- 
stitute Nacional  de  Cafe:  Incafe) 
income  distribution,  3,  105 
independence  (1821),  7,  9,  11 
Indian  population,  3,  4,  16,  53,  66-67; 
abuse  by  Spaniards  of,  6;  in  1833  rural 
uprising,  11 
indigo  industry,  xix,  6,  10,  102,  120-21, 
197 

industrial  policy,  136 
industrial  production,  101-2 
industrial  sector,  79,  107,  118,  126-29 
inequality,  social-economic,  49,  54,  59, 

82,  85 
inflation,  105,  111,  112 
infrastructure:  development  of,  10,  102, 

121;  disruption  to,  129-30 
insignia,  military,  212-13 
Institutional  Revolutionary  Party  (Partido 

Revolucionario  Institucional:  PRI), 

18-19 


294 


Index 


insurgency,  xxii,  49,  59,  233,  236-50 
intelligence  organizations,  208-9 
Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  As- 
sistance (the  Rio  Treaty),  223 
interest  groups,  173-80 
interim  government  (1983),  244 
International  Court  of  Justice,  192 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 

105,  110,  112,  136 
Investigations  Commission,  255 
investment,  101 

investment,  foreign,  127,  137-138 
Investment  and  Savings  Bank,  113 
IRA.  See  Regulatory  Supply  Institute  (In- 
stitute Regulador  de  Abastecimientos: 
IRA) 

Iran-Contra  affair,  184,  189 

Israel:  military  training  by,  227;  relations 

with,  193 
Italy,  223 

Iturbide,  Agustm  de,  7,  199 
Izalco,  16 

Izalco  volcano,  50,  51 


Japan,  193 

Jesuit  priests,  xxvii-xxviii,  95 

John  Paul  II  (pope),  95 

John  XXIII  (pope),  22,  92 

Joint  General  Staff  (Estado  Mayor  Con- 
junto:  EMC),  xxiv,  xxvi,  xxvii,  204, 
208,  209,  221 

Joint  Intelligence  Operations  Center 
(Centro  de  Operaciones  Conjuntos  de 
Inteligencia:  COCI),  232 

Jovel,  Francisco  ("Roberto  Roca"),  xxv, 
238,  240 

Juayua,  16 

Judicial  Protection  Unit,  255 
judicial  reform  (see  also  Investigations 
Commission;  Judicial  Protection  Unit; 
Judicial  Training  Program;  Revisory 
Commission  for  Salvadoran  Legisla- 
tion), xxii,  254-56 
judicial  system,  xxii 
judicial  system,  criminal,  250-54 
Judicial  Training  Program,  256 
junta  governments  (see  also  Revolutionary 
Governing  Junta  (Junta  Revolucionario 
de  Gobierno:  JRG)),  in  1948,  18,  201; 
in  1960,  21,  24;  in  1980,  xix,  35-36, 
203,  239;  in  1979  and  after,  34-35,  59, 
86-87,  89,  203,  229;  reaction  to,  39 


Kennedy,  John  F.,  23 

Kissinger  Commission.   See  National 

Bipartisan  Commission  on  Central 

America 
Kohl,  Helmut,  193 

Korea,  Democratic  People's  Republic  of, 
238 


labor  force  (see  also  employment;  under- 
employment; unemployment),  108-9;  in 
industry,  64;  pressure  groups  of,  175- 
78;  in  rural  areas,  62-64,  68-69,  78; 
strikes  of,  128,  175,  177;  urban,  78-79 

labor  movement,  108 

labor  unions,  40,  79,  109,  176-78 

ladino  customs,  66-67 

Lago  de  Coatepeque,  51 

Lago  de  Giiija,  51 

Lago  de  Ilopango,  51 

La  Libertad,  51,  67,  242 

la  matanza  (see  also  rural  uprising  (1932)), 
xx-xxi,  4,  16,  17,  60,  67,  197,  200-201 

land  (see  also  encomienda  system;  repartimiento 
system):  concentration  of,  3;  expropri- 
ation of,  36,  37,  86-87;  scarcity  of,  25, 
67,  74;  value  of,  6 

Land  to  the  Tiller  decree  (1980),  42,  88, 
148 

landowners  (see  also  coffee  industry): 
domination  of  economy  by,  59-60;  op- 
position to  agrarian  reform  by,  86 

land  ownership  (see  also  land  reform),  3, 
60,  62,  68;  concentration  of,  60;  dis- 
tribution of,  62-63,  67-68,  74-76,  83, 
88,  101,  118-19;  early  pattern  for,  6; 
oligarchy  in,  10;  under  Phase  III  of 
agrarian  reform,  88 

land  reform,  4,  17,  26,  87;  in  1976,  237; 
in  1980,  xix,  101,  119-20 

languages,  53 

La  Palma,  157,  165,  180,  245 

La  Paz  Department,  xxvi,  242,  243 

Lara  Velado,  Roberto,  22 

Latin  America,  7,  20,  28,  42 

Latin  American  Bishops'  Conference, 

Second,  92 
La  Union  Department,  29,  219,  243 
La  Union  port,  125,  130,  216 
Law  for  the  Defense  and  Guarantee  of 

Public  Order  (1977),  32 
Legislative  Assembly,  23,  27,  28,  32,  145, 

152-53,  155,  158,  159,  162-63 


295 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Lemus,  Jose  Maria,  19-21 

Lenca  tribe,  66 

Lenox,  138 

Leo  XIII  (pope),  22 

Liberation  Party  (Partido  Liberation: 

PL),  172-73 
liberation  theology,  37,  90,  92-93,  178, 

237 

Line  Police  (Policia  de  Lmea),  230 

literacy,  3,  73 

literacy  campaign,  217 

livestock,  124 

living  standards,  70 

local  government,  158-59 

Lopez  Arellano,  Oswaldo,  25 

Lopez  Nuila,  Carlos  Reynaldo,  207,  220, 

221,  230 
Lopez  Sibrian,  Roberto,  254 
Los  Nonualcos,  11 


machine  parts  industry,  127 
Madrid,  190 

Magana  Borja,  Alvaro,  44,  147-49,  203, 
235,  244 

Majano  Ramos,  Adolfo  Arnoldo,  34,  35, 
36,  38,  39,  202,  203 

malnutrition,  69-71 

Managua,  xxviii,  191,  240 

manufacturing.  See  industrial  sector 

Mardoqueo  Cruz  Urban  Guerrilla  Com- 
mando, 244 

Marine  Infantry  Battalion  (Batallon  de 
Infantena  de  Marina:  BIM),  216 

Maritain,  Jacques,  22 

marketing  companies,  117 

Marti,  Agustm  Farabundo,  xx,  4,  14,  16, 
228 

Martinez,  Ana  Guadalupe,  238 
Martinez,  Maximiliano  Hernandez,  15- 

18,  145,  200-201,  228 
Marx,  Karl,  15 

Marxist-Leninist  ideology,  22,  39,  146, 
147,  238 

mass  communication,  180-82 

mass  organizations,  31,  33,  36,  40,  84, 
88-89,  175,  234,  240;  activity  of,  239 

Maximiliano  Hernandez  Martinez  Bri- 
gade, 235 

Maya  Empire,  4 

Mayorga,  Roman,  34 

Medellm,  92 

media,  180-82 


Medical  School  of  the  National  Univer- 
sity, 72 

Medrano,  Jose  Alberto  "Chele,"  30, 

228-29,  234 
Mejfa,  Benjamin,  29 
Melendez,  Jorge,  12-13 
Menendez,  Andres  Ignacio,  18 
Menendez,  Francisco,  12,  144 
Menendez,  Jose  Asencio,  18 
mesones,  83 

mestizo  population,  3,  53 

Mexico,  7,  40,  50,  186;  recognition  of 
FMLN-FDR,  41;  refugees  from  El  Sal- 
vador in,  76 

Mexico  City,  41,  245 

Middle  America  Trench,  50 

migration  (see  also  refugees;  urbanization), 
63,  74-77;  patterns  of,  76-77;  seasonal, 
74-75,  78-79 

Military  Appeals  Court,  253 

military  assistance,  223;  from  Denmark 
and  Germany,  223,  227;  from  United 
States,  37,  38,  42-43,  114-15,  182-83, 
216,  223-26,  235,  242,  247 

Military  Assistance  Program  (MAP), 
United  States,  223 

Military  Aviation  School,  216 

Military  Aviation  Service  (Servicio  de 
Aviation  Militar:  SAM),  200 

military  branch  (see  also  officer  corps),  152, 
156-58,  168;  as  a  class,  61-62;  politi- 
cal role  of,  23,  206,  208;  rule  of,  16-21, 
23-24;  support  of  coffee  growers  by, 
200 

Military  Court  of  First  Instance,  253 
Military  Detachment   Number  Four 

(Destacamento  Militar  Numero  Cu- 

atro:  DM4),  213 
military  equipment:  air  force,  216;  army, 

213 

military  governments,  15,  16-17,  197, 
201 

Military  Hospital,  200,  211 

military  justice,  220-23 

military  personnel,  enlisted,  64,  212 

military  purchases,  223-24 

military  service  (see  also  conscription;  im- 
pressment; Territorial  Service),  209-12 

military  training,  218-19,  223;  by  Argen- 
tina, 226;  by  Italy,  223;  by  United 
States,  224 

Military  Youth  (Juventud  Militar),  18, 
29,  34,  201,  202,  203 


296 


Index 


Millett,  Richard  L.,  219 

mining  industry,  129 

Ministry  of  Defense  and  Public  Security, 
208,  209,  211,  217,  221 

Ministry  of  Education,  73,  74 

Ministry  of  Government  and  Develop- 
ment, 227 

Ministry  of  Interior,  131,  248 

Ministry  of  Justice,  252 

Ministry  of  Public  Health  and  Social 
Services,  57,  72,  116 

missionary  activity,  95 

Mitterrand,  Francois,  193 

Mobile  Training  Team  (MTT),  United 
States,  224 

Modesto  Ramirez  Central  Front,  242 

Molina,  Arturo  Armando,  28-29,  30 

monetary  policy,  111,  112 

Montes,  Ana Melinda ("Ana Maria"),  241 

Morales  Ehrlich,  Jose  Antonio,  33,  35 

Morazan,  Francisco,  9 

Morazan  Department,  xxvi,  41,  54,  63, 
68,  76,  77,  88,  90,  211,  213,  243,  244 

mortality  rates,  56-58,  70-71 

mountain  ranges,  50,  53 

municipalities,  158 

murders,  xxvii-xxviii,  36,  37-38,  42 

Mussolini,  Benito,  17 

Nahua  people  (see  also  Pipil  tribe),  4 
Nahuizalco,  16 
Nandaime,  190 
Napoleon,  6 

National  Agrarian  Reform  Congress,  27 

National  Assembly,  12,  145 

National  Association  of  Peasants  (Asocia- 
cion Nacional  de  Campesinos:  ANC), 
177 

National  Association  of  Private  Enterprise 
(Asociacion  Nacional  de  la  Empresa 
Privada:  ANEP),  61,  173 

National  Association  of  Salvadoran  Edu- 
cators (Asociacion  Nacional  de  Educa- 
dores  Salvadorenos:  ANDES),  237 

National  Association  of  Salvadoran  Indi- 
ans (Asociacion  Nacional  Indfgena  Sal- 
vadorena:  ANIS),  67 

National  Bipartisan  Commission  on  Cen- 
tral America,  226 

National  Coffee  Institute  (Instituto  Na- 
cional de  Cafe:  Incafe),  107,  110,  114, 
117,  122 


National  Commission  to  Assist  the  Dis- 
placed Persons  of  El  Salvador  (Comi- 
sion  Nacional  de  Asistencia  a  los 
Desplazadas  de  El  Salvador:  Conades), 
248 

National  Conciliation  Party  (Partido  de 
Conciliacion  Nacional:  PCN),  21,  22- 
24,  25,  27,  28,  32-33,  44,  146-49, 
162-63,  166,  169-70 

National  Confederation  of  Workers  (Con- 
federation Nacional  de  Trabajadores: 
CNT),  178 

National  Coordinator,  36 

National  Democratic  Union  (Union 
Democratica  Nacional:  UDN),  28,  36 

National  Directorate  of  Intelligence 
(Direction  Nacional  de  Inteligencia: 
DNI),  209 

National  Electric  Company,  115 

National  Guard  (Guardia  Nacional:  GN), 
11,  16,  28,  30,  60,  63,  89,  201,  208, 
227-30,  232,  234,  235,  252;  Special  In- 
vestigations Section,  231 

National  Industrial  Development  Bank 
(Banco  Nacional  de  Fomento  Indus- 
trial: Banfi),  112 

nationalism,  169,  207 

Nationalist  Democratic  Organization 
(Organization  Democratica  Nacion- 
alista:  Orden),  30,  34,  37,  89,  228-29, 
234 

Nationalist  Republican  Alliance  (Alianza 
Republicana  Nacionalista:  Arena), 
xxiii,  44,  143,  146-49,  156,  162-63, 
166,  174,  203,  204,  207;  role  of,  167- 
69 

nationalization,  36,  112,  130 
National  Police  (Policia  Nacional:  PN), 

11,  18,  201,  208,  227,  229,  230,  232, 

234 

National  Resistance  (Resistencia  Na- 
cional: RN),  244 

National  Revolutionary  Movement 
(Movimiento  Nacional  Revolucionario: 
MNR),  28,  36,  40,  171-72 

national  security,  202,  206,  259 

National  Sugar  Institute  (Instituto  Na- 
cional de  Azucar;  Inazucar),  110,  114, 
117 

National  Telecommunications  Adminis- 
tration (Administration  Nacional  de 
Telecomunicaciones:  Antel),  115,  117, 
131 


297 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


National  Union  of  Salvadoran  Workers 
(Union  Nacional  de  Trabaj adores  Sal- 
vadorenos:  UNTS),  177-78 

National  Union  of  Workers  and  Peasants 
(Union  Nacional  de  Obreros  y  Cam- 
pesinos:  UNOC),  176-78 

National  Unity  Front,  26 

National  University  (see  also  University  of 
El  Salvador  (National  University)),  84 

National  Water  and  Sewerage  Adminis- 
tration (Administration  Nacional  de 
Acueductos  y  Alcantarillados:  AND  A), 
115,  117 

naval  base,  216 

Naval  Commandos  force,  217 

naval  school,  216 

navy.  See  Salvadoran  Navy 

New  Spain  (Mexico),  4 

Nicaragua,  xxi,  xxviii,  7,  13,  15,  33,  179, 
181,  190,  242;  refugees  from  El  Sal- 
vador in,  76;  revolution  in  1979,  31, 
39;  support  for  FMLN  by,  232;  sup- 
port for  guerrillas  by,  4;  training  for 
PCES,  239 

Nightwatchmen  and  Bank  Guards  Corps 
(Cuerpo  de  Vigilantes  Nocturnos  y 
Bancarios),  230 

Noncommissioned  Officers  School  (Es- 
cuela  de  Suboficiales),  200,  219 

Noriega  Moreno,  Manuel  Antonio,  183 

North  American  Plate,  50 


OAS.  See  Organization  of  American 

States  (OAS) 
Ochoa  Perez,  Sigifredo,  169,  203,  207, 

221,  248 

officer  corps  (see  also  tanda;  tandona),  4,  18, 
29,  33,  34,  38-39,  61-62,  168,  211-12, 
222-23 

oil  price  shocks,  xx,  131 

oligarchy,  10,  13,  60,  61,  199-200 

Operation  Weil-Being  (Operation  Bien- 
estar),  248 

Orden.  See  Nationalist  Democratic  Or- 
ganization (Organization  Democratica 
Nacionalista:  Orden) 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation 
and  Development  (OECD),  133 

Organization  of  American  States  (OAS), 
26 

Ortega  Saavedra,  Daniel,  xxviii,  189 
Osorio,  Oscar,  18-19,  145 


pacification  program,  248-49 

Pacific  lowlands,  50,  51,  53 

Pacific  Ocean,  51 

Pacific  Ocean  floor,  50 

Pact  of  Amapala  (1895),  13,  148,  149 

PAISA.  See  Salvadoran  Authentic  Institu- 
tional Party  (Partido  Autentico  Institu- 
cional  Salvadoreno:  PAISA) 

Panama,  183,  186 

Panama  City,  188 

Pan  American  Highway,  130 

PAR.  See  Renovating  Action  Party  (Par- 
tido Action  Renovadora:  PAR) 

paramilitary  organizations,  37,  202, 
228-29,  230,  234,  248 

Party  of  the  Salvadoran  Revolution  (Par- 
tido de  la  Revolution  Salvadorena: 
PRS),  243 

PCES.  See  Communist  Party  of  El  Sal- 
vador (Partido  Comunista  de  El  Sal- 
vador: PCES) 

PCN.  See  National  Conciliation  Party 
(Partido  de  Conciliation  Nacional: 
PCN) 

PDC.  See  Christian  Democratic  Party 
(Partido  Democrata  Cristiano:  PDC) 

Peace  Commission,  148,  244 

Penal  Code,  253;  of  1904,  256;  of  1980, 
256 

peninsulares,  6 

penitentiaries,  258 

People's  Revolutionary  Army  (Ejercito 
Revolucionario  del  Pueblo:  ERP),  30, 
33,  39,  177,  237-38,  240,  241,  243 

Permanent  Council  of  the  Armed  Forces 
(Consejo  Permanente  de  las  Fuerzas 
Armadas:  Copefa),  203 

Peru,  187 

petroleum  products  industry,  127 
PH.  See  Treasury  Police  (Policia  de  Ha- 
cienda: PH) 
pharmaceutical  industry,  79,  127 
Pickering,  Thomas,  235 
Pipil  language,  67 
Pipil  tribe,  4-5,  66 
Pius  XII  Institute,  92 
plantations.  See  fincas 
Platanar,  200 

PN.  See  National  Police  (Policia  Nacional: 
PN) 

Police  Academy,  231 
police  force,  206,  207,  227 
Political  Commission,  148 


298 


Index 


political  parties,  163 
political  system:  military  control  of,  197, 
201 

Ponce  Torres,  Rene  Emilio,  xxiv,  xxvii, 

207,  220,  250,  259 
Popular  Army  of  Liberation  (Ejercito 

Popular  de  Liberacion:  EPL),  243-44 
Popular  Credit  Bank,  113 
Popular  Democratic  Unity  (Unidad 

Popular  Democratica:  UPD),  175-76 
Popular  Forum  (Foro  Popular),  33 
Popular   Liberation   Forces  (Fuerzas 

Populares  de  Liberacion:  FPL),  237, 

240-41 

Popular  Liberation  Movement  (Movi- 
miento  de  Liberacion  Popular:  MLP), 
40 

popular  organizations.  See  mass  organi- 
zations 

Popular  Orientation  Party  (Partido  de 
Orientation  Popular:  POP),  146,  173 

Popular  Social  Christian  Movement 
(Movimiento  Popular  Social  Cristiano: 
MPSC),  36,  40,  171-72 

population,  25,  49,  51;  density  of,  49,  54; 
growth  and  age  distribution  of,  56-58; 
homogeneity  of,  53-54;  urban  and 
rural  ratios  for,  56,  62 

Portugal,  193 

postal  service,  131 

poverty,  3,  69-70,  74,  77,  82 

PPS.  See  Salvadoran  Popular  Party  (Par- 
tido Popular  Salvadoreno:  PPS) 

pressure  groups,  See  interest  groups 

PRI.  See  Institutional  Revolutionary  Party 
(Partido  Revolucionario  Institucional: 
PRI) 

price  controls,  107,  111 

price  levels,  106 

prison  system,  258-59 

private  enterprise,  173-74 

prostitution,  79 

protectionism,  136 

Protestantism,  95-96 

PRS.  See  Party  of  the  Salvadoran  Revo- 
lution (Partido  de  la  Revolution  Sal- 
vadorena:  PRS) 

PRTC.  See  Revolutionary  Party  of 
Central  American  Workers  (Partido 
Revolucionario  de  Trabajdores  Cen- 
troamericanos:  PRTC) 

PRUD.  See  Revolutionary  Party  of  Dem- 
ocratic Unification  (Partido  Revolu- 


cionario de  Unification  Democratica: 

PRUD) 
public  health  program,  217 
Public  Law  480,  183 
Public  Safety  Program,  231 
Public  Security  Forces  Joint  Staff,  208 
Puerto  Castilla,  226 


quantitative  restrictions,  110 

Quince  de  Septiembre  power  plant,  133 

Quinonez  Molina,  Alfonso,  12-13,  14 


Radio  Farabundo  Marti,  182 

radio  stations,  182 

Radio  Venceremos,  177,  182 

Rafael  Arce  Zablah  Brigade  (Brigada 
Rafael  Arce  Zablah:  BRAZ),  243 

railroad,  130 

rainy  season  (invierno),  53 

rank,  military,  212-13 

Reagan  (Ronald)  administration,  41,  43, 
182,  184-85,  189,  224-26,  232,  235 

Red  Aid  International  (Socorro  Rojo  In- 
ternacional:  SRI),  15 

refugees,  76-77,  191 

Regalado,  Tomas,  12,  14 

Regalado  Duenas,  Ernesto,  28 

Regional  Federation  of  Salvadoran  Work- 
ers, 15 

Regional   Military   Training  Center 

(RMTC),  226 
Regulatory  Supply  Institute  (Instituto 

Regulador  de  Abastecimientos:  IRA), 

111,  117 

religion  (see  also  Protestantism;  Roman 
Catholic  Church),  7,  91-96 

Renovating  Action  Party  (Partido  Action 
Renovadora:  PAR),  18,  24,  28 

repartimiento  system,  6 

repression  {see  also  death  squads;  la 
matanza),  14,  17-20,  31-34 

Republic  of  Central  America,  13,  150 

reservoir,  51 

revenues,  113 

Revisory  Commission  for  Salvadoran 

Legislation,  254-55 
Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of  Popular 

Liberation  (Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolu- 

cionarias   de   Liberaci6n  Popular: 

FARLP),  244 


299 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


Revolutionary  Coordinator  of  the  Masses 
(Coordinadora  Revolucionaria  de  las 
Masas:  CRM),  36,  40,  88-89,  239 

Revolutionary  Council  (junta),  18 

Revolutionary  Democratic  Front  (Frente 
Democratico  Revolucionario:  FDR), 
xx,  xxiv,  40-41,  44-45,  84,  146,  157, 
162,  164,  165,  170-72,  190,  191,  192, 
206,  238,  239 

Revolutionary  Governing  Junta  (Junta 
Revolucionaria  de  Gobierno:  JRG), 
203 

Revolutionary  Party  of  Central  American 
Workers  (Partido  Revolucionario  de 
Trabajadores  Centroamericanos: 
PRTC),  238,  240,  242,  244,  253 

Revolutionary  Party  of  Democratic  Unifi- 
cation (Partido  Revolucionario  de 
Unification  Democratica:  PRUD),  18- 
20,  201 

Revolutionary  Popular  Bloc  (Bloque 
Popular  Revolucionario:  BPR),  31,  38, 
237,  239 

revolutionary  theory,  238 

Revolution  of  1948,  18,  19,  22,  102,  145, 
201,  219,  228 

Rey  Prendes,  Julio  Adolfo,  166-67 

rice,  124 

Rio  Lempa,  51,  75,  90,  130 

Rio  Lempa  Executive  Hydroelectric 
Commission  (Comision  Ejecutiva 
Hidroelectrica  del  Rio  Lempa:  CEL), 
115,  117 

Rio  Motagua,  50 

Rio  Treaty,  223 

Rivera,  Julio  Adalberto,  21,  22-23,  24, 
30,  145 

Rivera  y  Damas,  Arturo  (archbishop),  94, 

179-80 
rivers,  51 

road  system,  130,  217 
Rodriguez,  Abraham,  22,  167 
Rodriguez  Porth,  Jose  Antonio,  28 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  77,  178-80, 
190,  206 

Roman  Catholic  groups  {see  also  Christian 
Base  Communities  (Comunidades 
Eclesiasticas  de  Base:  CEBs)),  31 

Roman  Catholicism  (see  also  liberation 
theology;  "social  Christianity"),  7,  9, 
28,  237,  91-96 

Romero,  Napoleon  (Miguel  Castellanos), 
xxv 


Romero  Bosque,  Pio,  14 

Romero  Mena,  Carlos  Humberto,  33, 

34,  197,  203,  224,  234 
Romero  y  Galdamez,  Oscar  Arnulfo 

(archbishop),  37-38,  94,  178-79,  207, 

235,  252 
Rosa  Chavez,  Gregorio,  180 
Ruffino  Barrios,  Justo,  12 
rural  life,  67-74 
rural  population,  62-64,  73-74 
rural  uprising  (1833),  xx,  3,  11 
rural  uprising  (1932),  xx,  16,  60 


sabotage  (see  also  guerrilla  groups),  118, 

128,  233-34 
Salvadoran  Air  Force,  26,  29,  202,  216, 

218,  223 

Salvadoran  Army,  26,  197,  224,  242;  con- 
trol by  dictator  of,  201;  evolution  of, 
199;  reorganization  of,  204;  size  of,  213 

Salvadoran  Authentic  Institutional  Party 
(Partido  Autentico  Institucional  Sal- 
vadoreno: PAISA),  149,  173 

Salvadoran  Chamber  of  Commerce  and 
Industry  (Camara  de  Comercio  e  In- 
dustria  de  El  Salvador),  173 

Salvadoran  Coffee  Company,  113 

Salvadoran  Coffee  Growers  Association 
(Asociacion  Cafetalera  de  El  Salvador: 
ACES),  122,  173 

Salvadoran  Communal  Union  (Union 
Comunal  Salvadorena:  UCS),  89,  176, 
178 

Salvadoran  Cotton  Cooperative,  113 
Salvadoran  Demographic  Association, 
57 

Salvadoran  Institute  for  Agrarian  Reform 
(Instituto  Salvadoreno  de  Transforma- 
tion Agraria:  ISTA),  110 

Salvadoran  Institute  of  Industrial  De- 
velopment (Instituto  Salvadoreno  de 
Fomento  Industrial:  Insafi),  112 

Salvadoran  Navy,  216-17 

Salvadoran  Popular  Party  (Partido  Popu- 
lar Salvadoreno:  PPS),  24,  28,  146 

Salvadoran  Social  Security  Institute  (In- 
stituto Salvadoreno  del  Seguro  Social: 
ISSS),  72,  110 

Salvador  Railroads,  130 

Sanchez  Hernandez,  Fidel,  24,  25,  28,  229 

Sancho  Castafieda,  Eduardo  ("Ferman 
Cienfuegos"),  238,  240 


300 


Index 


Sandinista  National  Liberation  Front 
(Frente  Sandinista  de  Liberation  Na- 
tional: FSLN),  31,  33,  39,  42,  190-91, 
241;  support  for  FMLN  guerrillas  by, 
xxi,  xx vi 

Sandino,  Augusto  Cesar,  15 

sanitation  facilities,  70 

San  Jose,  xxviii 

San  Miguel  city,  55,  56,  78,  130,  216,  231 
San  Miguel  Department,  xxvi,  29,  31, 

207,  211,  243 
San  Miguel  volcano,  50 
San  Salvador,  xxvi,  6,  11,  20,  23,  27,  29, 

33,  36,  38,  50,  53,  54-55,  56,  61,  67, 

77,  83,  130,  200,  259;  growth  of,  77-78 
San  Salvador  Department,  29,  55,  89,  242 
Santa  Ana  city,  55-56,  66,  77-78,  130, 

231,  258 

Santa  Ana  Department,  xxvi,  242,  258 

Santa  Ana  volcano,  51 

Santa  Tecla,  16 

Santiago  Nonualco,  11 

San  Vicente,  11,  258 

San  Vicente  Department,  29,  89,  90,  243, 

248,  259 
Sapoa,  190 
savings,  113 

School  of  the  Americas  (Fort  Benning, 
Georgia),  219,  224 

security  forces,  internal  (see  also  Civil 
Defense  (Defensa  Civil:  DC);  National 
Guard;  National  Police;  Treasury 
Police),  11,  37,  227-31,  234;  equip- 
ment and  training  for,  231 

service  industries,  107-8 

Sesori,  245 

Seventh-Day  Adventists,  95 

Sheraton  case,  255 

Sierra  Madre  mountain  range,  50 

Soccer  War.  See  Honduras 

social  Christianity,  92,  93 

Social  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Social 
Democrata:  PSD),  143,  172 

Social  Improvement  (Mejoramiento  So- 
cial), 17 

social  programs,  72 

social  security,  72,  83,  116 

social  structure  (see  also  inequality,  social- 
economic;  officer  corps;  oligarchy), 
59-67;  composition  and  location  of 
middle  class,  64,  66,  78;  elite  segment 
of,  59-62;  lower  sector  of,  62-64 

Somoza  Debayle,  Anastasio,  33 


Sonsonate,  4,  16,  66,  67,  75,  130 
Sonsonate  Department,  29,  242 
Sonzacate,  16 
sorghum,  124 
South  America,  7 

Soviet  Union,  177;  support  for  FMLN 
guerrillas  by,  4,  232;  training  for 
PCES,  239 

Spain:  colonial  system  of,  3,  6-7;  con- 
quest in  El  Salvador  by,  5-6 

Spanish  Empire,  6 

Spanish  language,  53 

Special  Antiterrorist  Command  (Co- 
mando  Especial  Anti-Terrorista: 
CEAT),  232 

Special  Investigations  Section  (Servicio  de 
Investigaciones  Especiales:  SIE),  231 

Special  Investigative  Unit,  255-56 

Specialists'  School,  218 

spending,  government  (see  also  defense 
budget),  114-16;  military,  115,  116;  so- 
cial security  and  welfare,  116-17 

SRI.  See  Red  Aid  International  (Socorro 
Rojo  Internacional:  SRI) 

Staben  Perla,  Roberto  Mauricio,  222-23 

stabilization  program.  See  economic 
stabilization  program 

state  of  siege:  in  1980,  36-37;  in  1986,  251 

state-owned  enterprises,  110,  115,  117-18 

strikes,  40,  128 

student  groups,  40 

sugar  industry,  60,  63,  79,  102,  104,  107, 

110,  118,  122 
Supreme  Court,  258 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  152,  155 

Tacuba,  16 

Taiwan,  193 

tanda,  62,  219-20,  222 

tandona  (big  class),  xxvii,  207,  220,  222 

tariffs,  136 

tax  system  (see  also  export  duties;  reve- 
nues), 113-14 

Tegucigalpa,  189 

telecommunications,  131 

television  stations,  182 

terms  of  trade,  102,  134-35 

Territorial  Service,  210 

terrorism  (see  also  death  squads;  violence), 
xxv,  30,  33,  36,  202,  234,  237,  242;  of 
Communist  party  (PCES),  239;  against 
Jesuit  community,  234 


301 


El  Salvador:  A  Country  Study 


textile  companies,  79 

Thatcher,  Margaret,  193 

thermal  power  plants,  133 

Torola-Jocoaitique  line,  244 

trade  (see  also  export  performance;  ex- 
ports; imports;  terms  of  trade):  with 
other  Central  American  countries,  134 

trade  policy  (see  also  exchange  rate  policy; 
export  promotion;  import  substitution 
policy;  protectionism;  tariffs),  135-36; 
liberalization,  110 

trade  winds,  53 

Traffic  police  (Policia  de  Transito),  230 

transportation,  130-31 

transport  equipment  industry,  127 

Transport  Squadron,  216 

Treasury  Police  (Policia  de  Hacienda: 

PH),  208,  228,  229-30,  232,  234 
tugurios,  82 

Tutela  Legal  (Legal  Aid),  233,  236 
28th  of  February  Popular  Leagues  (Ligas 

Populares  28  de  Febrero:  LP- 2 8),  33, 

239 


UDN.  See  National  Democratic  Union 
(Union  Democratica  Nacional:  UDN) 
underemployment,  49,  63,  67-69 
unemployment,  49,  60,  63-64,  67-69,  82; 
rural,  64 

Ungo  Revelo,  Guillermo  Manuel,  xxiv, 
xxv,  28,  29,  34,  40,  143,  171-72,  182, 
192,  239,  245 

Unified  Revolutionary  Directorate 
(Direction  Revolucionaria  Unificada: 
DRU)  {see  also  Farabundo  Marti  Na- 
tional Liberation  Front  (Frente  Fara- 
bundo Marti  de  Liberation  Nacional: 
FMLN)),  40-41,  241,  240 

uniforms,  military,  212-13 

Union  of  Farm  Workers  (Union  de 
Trabaj adores  del  Campo:  UTC),  237 

United  Democratic  Independent  Front, 
28 

United  National  Opposition  (Union  Na- 
cional Opositora:  UNO),  28,  29,  32 

United  Nations,  xxviii-xxix 

United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees,  76,  191 

United  Nations  Latin  American  Center 
for  Demography  (Centro  Latino- 
americano  de  Demograffa:  Celade), 
56-57 


United  Popular  Action  Front  (Frente  de 
Action  Popular  Unidad:  FAPU),  239 

United  Provinces  of  Central  America 
(1823),  7,  9,  11,  144,  199 

United  States:  aid  renounced  by  Romero 
government,  41;  assistance  for  judicial 
reform,  254;  backing  for  armed  forces 
by,  4;  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  162; 
Congress,  xxvii;  Congress.  Senate  For- 
eign Relations  Committee,  148;  Con- 
gress. Senate  Select  Committee  on 
Intelligence,  236;  Department  of  State, 
xxv,  43,  233-34,  251,  254;  economic  as- 
sistance from,  182-83,  188;  Federal  Bu- 
reau of  Investigation,  255;  immigration 
of  Salvadorans,  109;  Law  Enforcement 
Counterterrorism  Assistance  Program, 
232;  military  assistance  from,  30,  37,  38, 

182-  83,  216,  224-26,  242,  247;  Military 
Assistance  Program  (MAP),  223;  mili- 
tary training  by,  30,  224-26;  pacifica- 
tion programs  design  and  funding, 
248-49;  policy  and  influence  (1979-81), 
42;  pressure  from,  xxvii,  146,  147,  165, 

183-  84,  197;  refugees  from  El  Salvador 
in,  76;  security  assistance  by,  xxi, 
231-32;  trade  with,  134 

United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  (AID),  114,  116,  120, 
131,  183,  133,  254;  Public  Safety  Pro- 
gram of,  231 
United  States  Marine  Mammal  Protec- 
tion Act,  126 
United  States  Marines,  253-54 
United  States  of  Central  America,  13 
United  to  Rebuild  (Unidos  para  Recon- 

struir),  250 
United  to  Work  (Unidos  para  Trabaj  ar), 
250 

universities,  84-85 

University  of  El  Salvador  (National 

University),  14,  237,  238 
UNO.  See  United  National  Opposition 

(Union  Nacional  Opositora:  UNO) 
UPD.  See  Popular  Democratic  Unity 

(Unidad  Popular  Democratica:  UPD) 
upper  class.  See  social  structure 
urbanization,  77-79 
urban  life,  77-85 
Uruguay,  187 

US  advisers  murders,  42,  235 
USC.  See  Salvadoran  Communal  Union 
(Union  Comunal  Salvadorena:  USC) 


302 


Index 


Usulutan,  130 

Usulutan  Department,  xxvi,  29,  31,  90, 

243,  248 
utility  industry,  110,  115 


Valle,  Andres,  12 

Vatican,  180 

Vatican  Council  II,  92 

Venezuela,  22,  36,  186 

Vides  Casanova,  Carlos  Eugenio,  157, 

204-5,  207,  221,  245,  247 
vigilantism,  252 

Villalobos    Hueso,   Joaquin  ("Rene 

Cruz"),  237-38,  240,  241,  259 
violence,  33,  37,  45,  94,  233 
volcanos,  50,  51 


wages,  79,  111 

Wars  of  Elimination  Anti-Communist 
Liberation  Armed  Forces  (Fuerzas 
Armadas  de  Liberacion  Anti-comunista 


deGuerrasde  Elimination:  FALANGE), 

32 

water  pollution,  70 

weapons  made  in  United  States,  240-41 

welfare,  116 

White,  Alastair,  16 

White,  Robert  E.,  236 

White  Hand  (Mano  Blanca),  234 

White  Warriors  Union  (Union  de  Guer- 
reros Blancos:  UGB),  32,  234 

women:  in  guerrilla  activity,  91 ;  in  labor 
force,  78-79,  91;  military  service  of, 
211 

World  Federation  of  Trade  Unions,  177 
Wright,  James,  184 

Zacatecoluca,  xxv,  130 

Zakh'var,  Rafael,  12,  144 

Zamora,  Mario,  36,  40 

Zamora  Rivas,  Ruben,  xxvi,  36,  171-72, 

182,  245 
Zepeda,  Juan  Orlando,  208-9 
"zones  of  control,"  90 


303 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-lOa 

Lrhana 

550-98 

Albania 

550-87 

Greece 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-59 

Angola 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-82 

Guyana 

550-169 

A         a.       1  • 

Australia 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-176 

Austria 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-21 

India 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-68 

T 

Iran 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-61 

Burma 

550-25 

Israel 

550-37 

Burundi/Rwanda 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

ODU-00 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic/Haiti 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-167 

Finland 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-46 

Panama 

305 


550- 

-156 

Paraguay 

550- 

-185 

Persian  Gulf 

550- 

-42 

Peru 

550- 

-72 

Philippines 

550- 

-162 

Poland 

550- 

-181 

Portugal 

550- 

-160 

Romania 

550- 

-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550- 

-70 

Senegal 

550- 

-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550- 

-184 

Singapore 

550- 

-86 

Somalia 

550- 

-93 

South  Africa 

550- 

-95 

Soviet  Union 

550- 

-179 

Spain 

550- 

-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550- 

-27 

Sudan 

550- 

-47 

Syria 

550- 

-62 

Tanzania 

550- 

-53 

Thailand 

550-89  Tunisia 

550-80  Turkey 

550-74  Uganda 

550-97  Uruguay 

550-71  Venezuela 

550-32  Vietnam 

550-183  Yemens,  The 

550-99  Yugoslavia 

550-67  Zaire 

550-75  Zambia 

550-171  Zimbabwe 


306 


PIN:  006962-000 


