area  handbook  series 

Ethiopia 

a  country  study 


<3> 


IBM 


II 

Ifcfl 


Ethiopia 

a  country  study 


c. 


IBM 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Thomas  P.  Ofcansky 
and  LaVerle  Berry 
Research  Completed 
July  1991 


ifimi, 

I  l! 


On  the  cover:  Largest  of  the  standing  obelisks  at  Aksum,  capi- 
tal of  the  ancient  Aksumite  state 


Fourth  Edition,  First  Printing,  1993. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Ethiopia  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 

Congress  ;  edited  by  Thomas  P.  Ofcansky  and  LaVerle  Berry.  — 
4th  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  pam  ;  550-28) 

"Supersedes  the  1981  edition  of  Ethiopia:  a  country  study, 
edited  by  Harold  D.  Nelson  and  Irving  Kaplan" — T.p.  verso. 

"Research  completed  July  1991." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  347-376)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0739-9 

1.  Ethiopia.    I.  Ofcansky,  Thomas  P.,  1947-    .  II.  Berry, 
LaVerle,  1942-    .        III.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research 
Division.  IV.  Area  handbook  for  Ethiopia.  V.  Series.  VI.  Series: 
DA  pam  ;  550-28. 
DT373.E83       1993  92-507 
963— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-28 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


111 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  their  use  and  adaptation  of 
information  in  the  1981  edition  of  Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study,  edited 
by  Harold  D.  Nelson  and  Irving  Kaplan.  The  authors  are  also 
grateful  to  numerous  individuals  in  various  government  agencies 
and  private  institutions  who  generously  shared  their  time,  exper- 
tise, and  knowledge  about  Ethiopia.  These  people  include  Paul  B. 
Henze,  The  Rand  Corporation;  Thomas  L.  Kane,  Department 
of  Defense;  Thomas  Collelo,  Department  of  Defense;  Carol  Boger, 
Department  of  Defense;  Major  Dale  R.  Endreson,  United  States 
Army;  and  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Country  Studies/ 
Area  Handbook  Program  for  the  Department  of  the  Army.  None 
of  these  individuals  is  in  any  way  responsible  for  the  work  of  the 
authors,  however. 

The  authors  also  wish  to  thank  those  who  contributed  directly 
to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  include  Sandra  W. 
Meditz,  who  reviewed  all  textual  and  graphic  materials  and  served 
as  liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency;  Marilyn  Majeska,  who 
managed  the  editing;  Vincent  Ercolano,  who  edited  the  chapters; 
Joshua  Sinai,  who  helped  prepare  the  manuscript  for  prepublica- 
tion  review;  and  Barbara  Edgerton,  Janie  L.  Gilchrist,  and  Izella 
Watson,  who  did  the  word  processing.  Andrea  T.  Merrill  performed 
the  final  prepublication  editorial  review  and  managed  production. 
Joan  C.  Cook  compiled  the  index.  Malinda  B.  Neale  of  the  Library 
of  Congress  Printing  and  Processing  Section  performed  the  photo- 
typesetting,  under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto  provided  invaluable  graphics  support.  Harriett 
R.  Blood  and  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara  prepared  the  maps,  which 
were  drafted  by  Tim  Merrill  and  reviewed  by  David  P.  Cabitto. 
The  charts  were  prepared  by  David  P.  Cabitto  and  Greenhorne 
and  O'Mara.  Wayne  Home  deserves  special  thanks  for  designing 
the  illustration  for  the  book's  cover.  Deborah  A.V.  Clement  de- 
signed the  illustrations  for  the  chapter  title  pages. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  individuals 
and  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photographs  to 
be  used  in  this  study.  They  are  indebted  especially  to  those  who 
contributed  work  not  previously  published. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    Hi 

Acknowledgments    v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     XXV 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    l 

John  W.  Turner 

ORIGINS  AND  THE  EARLY  PERIODS    6 

Early  Populations  and  Neighboring  States    6 

The  Aksumite  State   7 

Ethiopia  and  the  Early  Islamic  Period   10 

The  Zagwe  Dynasty    11 

The  "Restoration"  of  the  "Solomonic"  Line   13 

Amhara  Ascendancy    15 

THE  TRIALS  OF  THE  CHRISTIAN  KINGDOM 

AND  THE  DECLINE  OF  IMPERIAL  POWER   17 

Growth  of  Regional  Muslim  States    17 

Oromo  Migrations  and  Their  Impact    20 

Contact  with  European  Christendom    21 

The  Gonder  State  and  the  Ascendancy 

of  the  Nobility    22 

THE  MAKING  OF  MODERN  ETHIOPIA    24 

The  Reestablishment  of  the  Ethiopian  Monarchy   ....  25 

From  Tewodros  II  to  Menelik  II,  1855-89    27 

The  Reign  of  Menelik  II,  1889-1913    29 

The  Interregnum   33 

Haile  Selassie:  The  Prewar  Period,  1930-36    35 

ITALIAN  RULE  AND  WORLD  WAR  II    36 

Italian  Administration  in  Eritrea   36 

Mussolini's  Invasion  and  the  Italian  Occupation    ....  36 

Ethiopia  in  World  War  II    39 

THE  POSTWAR  PERIOD,  1945-60:  REFORM 

AND  OPPOSITION    42 

Change  and  Resistance    42 

Administrative  Change  and  the  1955  Constitution    ...  43 

The  Attempted  Coup  of  1960  and  Its  Aftermath    ....  45 


vii 


GROWTH  OF  SECESSIONIST  THREATS   45 

The  Liberation  Struggle  in  Eritrea    46 

Discontent  in  Tigray    48 

The  Ogaden  and  the  Haud    49 

REVOLUTION  AND  MILITARY  GOVERNMENT    50 

Background  to  Revolution,  1960-74    50 

The  Establishment  of  the  Derg    51 

The  Struggle  for  Power,  1974-77    54 

Ethiopia's  Road  to  Socialism   57 

THE  MENGISTU  REGIME  AND  ITS  IMPACT    58 

Political  Struggles  Within  the  Government    58 

War  in  the  Ogaden  and  the  Turn  to  the 

Soviet  Union    59 

Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  Insurgencies    60 

Social  and  Political  Changes    62 

ETHIOPIA  IN  CRISIS:  FAMINE  AND  ITS 

AFTERMATH,  1984-88    63 

Famine  and  Economic  Collapse   63 

Government  Defeats  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray   64 

The  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia   65 

Changes  in  Soviet  Policy  and  New  International 

Horizons    65 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   69 

Yohannis  Abate 

PHYSICAL  SETTING    72 

Boundaries:  International  and  Administrative   73 

Topography  and  Drainage   73 

Climate    77 

POPULATION    78 

Size,  Distribution,  and  Growth    78 

Urbanization    82 

Resettlement  and  Villagization    83 

REFUGEES,  DROUGHT,  AND  FAMINE   87 

ETHIOPIA'S  PEOPLES   90 

Ethnic  Groups,  Ethnicity,  and  Language    91 

Ethnic  and  Social  Relations   100 

SOCIAL  SYSTEM    105 

Rural  Society   106 

Urban  Society    Ill 

The  Role  of  Women    114 

RELIGIOUS  LIFE    115 

Demography  and  Geography  of  Religious 

Affiliation   116 


vni 


Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christianity    116 

Islam    120 

Indigenous  Religions    124 

Foreign  Missions    124 

EDUCATION    126 

Education  During  Imperial  Rule   126 

Primary  and  Secondary  Education  since  1975    129 

Higher  and  Vocational  Education  since  1975    132 

Literacy    134 

Foreign  Educational  Assistance    135 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   135 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    143 

Mulatu  Wubneh 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   146 

Developments  up  to  1974    146 

Postrevolution  Period    149 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    151 

The  Budgetary  Process    153 

Revenue  and  Expenditures    154 

Banking  and  Monetary  Policy   .  155 

LABOR  FORCE   156 

Unemployment    157 

Labor  Unions    160 

Wages  and  Prices    161 

AGRICULTURE    162 

Land  Use  and  Land  Reform   165 

Government  Rural  Programs    170 

Agricultural  Production   176 

INDUSTRY  AND  ENERGY    185 

Manufacturing   185 

Industrial  Development  Policy   187 

Energy  Resources    190 

Mining    192 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  TELECOMMUNICATIONS  ...  193 

Roads   .  .   193 

Railroads    194 

Ports    197 

Air  Transport    198 

Telecommunications    199 

FOREIGN  TRADE    200 

Exports    200 

Imports    202 

Balance  of  Payments  and  Foreign  Assistance    202 


ix 


ECONOMIC  PROSPECTS    204 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   207 

Edmond  J.  Keller 

THE  WORKERS'  PARTY  OF  ETHIOPIA    211 

Toward  Party  Formation   211 

The  Vanguard  Party    213 

THE  1987  CONSTITUTION    214 

The  Social  Order   216 

Citizenship,  Freedoms,  Rights,  and  Duties    217 

National  Shengo  (National  Assembly)    218 

Council  of  State   218 

The  President    219 

Council  of  Ministers    220 

Judicial  System    221 

REGIONAL  AND  LOCAL  GOVERNMENT   222 

Regional  Administration    222 

Peasant  Associations    223 

Kebeles    226 

CIVIL  SERVICE    227 

THE  POLITICS  OF  DEVELOPMENT    229 

The  Politics  of  Drought  and  Famine    230 

The  Politics  of  Resettlement    232 

The  Politics  of  Villagization    233 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    235 

Political  Participation  and  Repression    235 

The  Eritrean  Movement    239 

The  Tigrayan  Movement    244 

Other  Movements  and  Fronts    246 

Regime  Stability  and  Peace  Negotiations    249 

MASS  MEDIA    253 

FOREIGN  POLICY    253 

Diplomacy  and  State  Building  in  Imperial  Ethiopia    .  .  254 

The  Foreign  Policy  of  the  Derg   254 

The  Derg,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  Communist 

World    256 

The  Derg  and  the  West   258 

Ethiopia's  Border  Politics    258 

Addis  Ababa  and  the  Middle  East    262 

THE  DEMISE  OF  THE  MILITARY  GOVERNMENT   262 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    267 

Thomas  P.  Ofcansky 

MILITARY  TRADITION  IN  NATIONAL  LIFE   270 


x 


THE  ARMED  FORCES    276 

The  1987  Constitution  and  the  Armed  Forces   276 

Command  and  Force  Structure    277 

Army   278 

Air  Force   279 

Navy    280 

People's  Militia    281 

Training    282 

Morale  and  Discipline    285 

Manpower  Considerations   288 

Defense  Costs    291 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  ASSISTANCE    291 

United  States   291 

Soviet  Union    294 

Cuba   296 

East  Germany    298 

North  Korea    299 

Israel  j   300 

EXTERNAL  AND  INTERNAL  OPPONENTS    301 

The  Eritreans    301 

The  Tigray    307 

The  Oromo    310 

The  Somali    311 

PUBLIC  ORDER  AND  INTERNAL  SECURITY    315 

The  National  Police   315 

People's  Protection  Brigades    318 

CRIME  AND  PUNISHMENT   319 

The  Legal  System    319 

Prisons   322 

HUMAN  RIGHTS    326 

Appendix.  Tables    331 

Bibliography    347 

Glossary    377 

Contributors    383 

Index    385 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ethiopia,  1974    xxii 

2  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ethiopia,  1987-91    xxiii 

3  The  Early  Period,  Thirteenth  to  Seventeenth  Centuries  ....  16 

4  Colonization  of  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  Southwest 

Arabia,  1820-ca.  1900    30 


XI 


5  The  Horn  of  Africa  and  Southwest  Arabia,  Mid-1930s   ....  38 

6  Topography  and  Drainage    74 

7  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1989    80 

8  Principal  Ethnolinguistic  Groups,  1991    92 

9  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Ethiopian 

Fiscal  Year  1984/85    164 

10  Transportation  System,  1991    196 

11  The  Ogaden  War,  1977-78    312 


xii 


Preface 


This  study  replaces  Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study,  which  was  com- 
pleted in  1980 — six  years  after  a  group  of  military  officers  over- 
threw Emperor  Haile  Selassie  I  and  eventually  established  a 
Marxist-Leninist  dictatorship.  In  May  1991,  this  regime,  led  by 
Mengistu  Haile  Mariam,  collapsed,  largely  because  of  its  inabil- 
ity to  defeat  two  insurgencies  in  the  northern  part  of  the  country. 

This  edition  of  Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study  examines  the  revolution- 
ary government's  record  from  1974  through  the  fall  of  the  regime 
in  mid- 1991 .  Subsequent  events  are  discussed  in  the  Introduction. 
Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  investigates  the  historical,  social, 
economic,  political,  and  national  security  forces  that  helped  deter- 
mine the  nature  of  Ethiopian  society.  Sources  of  information  used 
in  the  study's  preparation  included  scholarly  books,  journals,  and 
monographs;  official  reports  of  governments  and  international  or- 
ganizations; numerous  periodicals;  the  authors'  previous  research 
and  observations;  and  interviews  with  individuals  who  have  spe- 
cial competence  in  Ethiopian  and  African  affairs.  Chapter  biblio- 
graphies appear  at  the  end  of  the  book;  brief  comments  on  sources 
recommended  for  further  reading  appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter. 

The  available  materials  on  Ethiopia  frequently  presented  prob- 
lems because  of  the  different  transliterations  of  place-names  and 
personal  names  used  by  scholars  and  other  writers.  No  standardized 
and  universally  accepted  system  has  been  developed  for  the  trans- 
literation of  Amharic  (the  most  widely  used  language  in  the  coun- 
try), and  even  the  Ethiopian  government's  official  publications  vary 
in  their  English  renderings  of  proper  names.  Insofar  as  possible, 
the  authors  have  attempted  to  reduce  the  confusion  with  regard 
to  place-names  by  adhering  to  the  system  adopted  by  the  United 
States  Board  on  Geographic  Names  (BGN),  except  that  diacriti- 
cal markings  are  eliminated  in  this  study.  With  regard  to  personal 
names,  the  authors  have  attempted  to  use  the  most  common  En- 
glish spellings.  The  authors  also  have  followed  the  Amharic  tradi- 
tion of  referring  only  to  the  first  element  of  a  name  when  using 
it  in  a  second  reference.  Thus,  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam  becomes 
Mengistu  after  the  first  use. 

The  reader  should  exercise  caution  with  regard  to  dates  cited 
in  relation  to  Ethiopia.  Dates  used  in  this  book  generally  are  ac- 
cording to  the  standard,  Gregorian  (Western)  calendar.  But  life 
in  Ethiopia  is  actually  governed  by  the  Ethiopian  calendar,  which 
consists  of  twelve  months  of  thirty  days  each  and  one  month  of 


Xlll 


five  days  (six  in  leap  years)  running  from  September  1 1  to  Sep- 
tember 10  according  to  the  Gregorian  calendar.  The  sequence  of 
years  in  the  Ethiopian  calendar  also  differs  from  the  Gregorian 
calendar,  running  seven  years  behind  the  Gregorian  calendar  at 
the  beginning  of  an  Ethiopian  year  and  seven  years  behind  at  its 
end. 

The  reader  will  note  the  frequent  use  in  this  book  of  double  years, 
such  as  1989/90  or  1990/91,  especially  in  Chapters  2  and  3.  These 
dates  do  not  mean  that  a  two-year  period  is  covered.  Rather,  they 
reflect  the  conversion  of  Ethiopian  calendar  years  to  the  Gregor- 
ian system.  When  1990/91  is  used,  for  example,  the  date  refers 
to  September  11,  1990,  to  September  10,  1991,  or  the  equivalent 
of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year  of  1983.  Some  economic  data  are 
based  on  the  Ethiopian  fiscal  year,  which  runs  from  July  8  to  the 
following  July  7  in  the  Gregorian  calendar,  but  seven  years  be- 
hind the  Gregorian  year  (eight  years  behind  after  December  31). 
Hence,  Ethiopian  fiscal  year  1990/91  (also  seen  as  EFY  1990/91) 
corresponds  to  July  11,  1990,  to  July  10,  1991,  or  the  equivalent 
of  Ethiopian  fiscal  year  1983.  Concerning  economic  data  in  general, 
it  must  be  noted  that  there  has  been  a  dearth  of  reliable  statistics 
since  1988,  reflecting  the  state  of  affairs  within  the  Ethiopian  govern- 
ment since  that  date. 

All  measurements  in  this  study  are  presented  in  the  metric  sys- 
tem. A  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those  readers  who  may 
not  be  familiar  with  metric  equivalents  (see  table  1,  Appendix). 
The  book  also  includes  a  Glossary  to  explain  terms  with  which  the 
reader  may  not  be  familiar. 

Finally,  readers  will  note  that  the  body  of  the  text  reflects  infor- 
mation available  as  of  July  1991 .  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text, 
however,  have  been  updated:  the  Introduction  discusses  signifi- 
cant events  that  have  occurred  since  the  information  cutoff  date; 
the  Country  Profile  includes  updated  information  as  available;  and 
the  Bibliography  lists  recently  published  sources  thought  to  be  par- 
ticularly helpful  to  the  reader. 


xiv 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Ethiopia. 
Short  Form:  Ethiopia. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Ethiopian(s). 
Capital:  Addis  Ababa. 

NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


XV 


Geography 


Size:  About  1,221,900  square  kilometers;  major  portion  of  eastern- 
most African  landmass  known  as  Horn  of  Africa. 

Topography:  Massive  highland  complex  of  mountains  and  dis- 
sected plateaus  divided  by  Great  Rift  Valley  running  generally 
southwest  to  northeast  and  surrounded  by  lowlands,  steppes,  or 
semidesert;  northeastern  coastline  of  about  960  kilometers  along 
Red  Sea.  Great  terrain  diversity  determines  wide  variations  in  cli- 
mate, soils,  natural  vegetation,  and  settlement  patterns. 

Climate:  Elevation  and  geographic  location  produce  three  climatic 
zones:  cool  zone  above  2,400  meters  where  temperatures  range  from 
near  freezing  to  16°C;  temperate  zone  at  elevations  of  1,500  to 
2,400  meters  with  temperatures  from  16°C  to  30°C;  and  hot  zone 
below  1 ,500  meters  with  both  tropical  and  arid  conditions  and  day- 
time temperatures  ranging  from  27°C  to  50°C.  Normal  rainy  sea- 
son from  mid-June  to  mid- September  (longer  in  the  southern 
highlands)  preceded  by  intermittent  showers  from  February  or 
March;  remainder  of  year  generally  dry. 

Society 

Population:  Mid- 1992  population  estimated  at  54  million,  with 
a  3  percent  or  higher  annual  growth  rate.  Urban  population  esti- 
mated at  about  11  percent  of  total  population. 

Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages:  Distinguishable  ethnolinguistic 
entities,  some  speaking  the  same  language,  estimated  at  more  than 
100;  at  least  seventy  languages  spoken  as  mother  tongues.  Largest 
group  is  the  Oromo,  with  about  40  percent  of  total  population. 
Roughly  30  percent  of  total  population  consists  of  the  Amhara, 
whose  native  language — Amharic — is  also  spoken  by  additional  20 
percent  of  population  as  second  tongue.  Amharic  is  Ethiopia's  offi- 
cial language.  The  Tigray,  speaking  Tigrinya,  constitute  12  to  15 
percent  of  total  population.  Large  number  of  smaller  groups  in- 
clude Somali,  Gurage,  Awi,  Afar,  Welamo,  Sidama,  and  Beja. 

Religion:  About  50  percent  of  population  Ethiopian  Orthodox; 
Orthodoxy  identified  mainly  with  Amhara  and  Tigray  peoples  but 
accepted  by  other  groups  as  well.  About  2  percent  Protestant  and 
Roman  Catholic  combined.  Approximately  40  percent  adherents 
of  Islam.  Remainder  of  population  practiced  various  indigenous 
religions. 

Education:  In  1985/86  (Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary), 
3.1  million  children  were  enrolled  in  grades  one  through  twelve. 


xvi 


Nearly  2.5  million,  or  42  percent  of  primary  school-age  children, 
enrolled  in  7,900  primary  schools  (grades  one  through  six);  363,000 
students  enrolled  in  964  junior  secondary  schools  (grades  seven  and 
eight);  more  than  292,000,  or  5.3  percent  of  secondary  school-age 
children,  enrolled  in  245  secondary  schools  (grades  nine  through 
twelve).  Vocational  schools  emphasized  technical  education;  in 
1985/86  more  than  4,200  attended  nine  technical  schools.  Intense 
competition  for  admission  to  approximately  twelve  colleges  and 
universities;  more  than  18,400  students  in  various  institutions  of 
higher  education. 

Literacy:  Less  than  10  percent  during  imperial  regime;  had  in- 
creased to  63  percent  by  1984,  according  to  Ethiopian  government. 
Revolutionary  government  undertook  major  national  literacy  cam- 
paign, which  made  significant  gains,  especially  among  women. 

Health:  Malaria  and  tuberculosis  major  endemic  diseases;  also 
health  problems  from  parasitic  and  gastroenteritis  infections,  lep- 
rosy, venereal  diseases,  typhus,  typhoid,  trachoma,  conjunctivi- 
tis, and  childhood  diseases.  All  complicated  by  insufficient  health 
facilities,  shortage  of  medical  personnel,  unsanitary  practices,  and 
nutritional  deficiencies.  Acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS)  becoming  a  greater  problem. 

Life  Expectancy:  Fifty  years  for  males  and  fifty-three  for  females 
in  1992. 

Economy 

Salient  Features:  Socialist  oriented  after  1974  revolution,  with 
strong  state  controls.  Thereafter,  large  part  of  economy  transferred 
to  public  sector,  including  most  modern  industry  and  large-scale 
commercial  agriculture,  all  agricultural  land  and  urban  rental 
property,  and  all  financial  institutions;  some  private  enterprise  and 
capital  participation  permitted  in  certain  sectors.  Since  mid- 1991, 
a  decentralized,  market-oriented  economy  emphasizing  individual 
initiative,  designed  to  reverse  a  decade  of  economic  decline.  In  1993 
gradual  privatization  of  business,  industry,  banking,  agriculture, 
trade,  and  commerce  under  way. 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$6  billion  in  1990;  per  capi- 
ta GDP  about  US$120.  Economy  grew  during  late  1970s  but 
declined  in  early  1980s  and  stagnated  thereafter.  GDP  in  Ethiopi- 
an fiscal  year  (EFY — see  Glossary)  1990/91  fell  by  5  to  6  percent 
in  real  terms,  after  a  1  percent  decline  in  EFY  1989/90.  Agricul- 
ture registered  modest  gains  after  1989. 


xvn 


Agriculture  and  Livestock:  Accounted  for  approximately  40  per- 
cent of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  80  percent  of  exports,  and 
80  percent  of  labor  force  in  1991 ;  other  activities  dependent  on  mar- 
keting, processing,  and  exporting  of  agricultural  products.  Produc- 
tion overwhelmingly  of  subsistence  nature  with  large  portion  of 
commodity  exports  provided  by  small  agricultural  monetized  sec- 
tor. Principal  crops  coffee,  pulses,  oilseeds,  cereals,  potatoes,  sugar- 
cane, and  vegetables.  Livestock  population  believed  largest  in 
Africa.  Livestock  alone  accounted  for  about  15  percent  of  GDP 
in  1987. 

Industry:  Manufacturing  severely  affected  by  economic  disloca- 
tion following  revolution.  Growth  of  sector  low  after  1 975.  Primary 
subsectors  cement,  textiles,  food  processing,  and  oil  refining.  In 
1993  smaller  enterprises  being  privatized;  larger  ones  still  under 
state  control.  Most  industry  functioning  well  below  capacity. 

Energy  Sources:  Hydroelectric  power  most  important  developed 
and  potential  source  of  energy.  Domestic  mineral  fuel  resources 
in  1993  included  low-grade  lignite  and  traces  of  petroleum  and 
natural  gas.  Potentially  important  geothermal  power  exists  in  Great 
Rift  Valley. 

Foreign  Trade:  Little  foreign  trade  by  international  standards. 
Exports  almost  entirely  agricultural  commodities;  coffee  largest  for- 
eign exchange  earner.  Value  of  imports  regularly  greater  than  ex- 
port receipts.  Wide  range  of  trading  partners,  but  most  important 
in  1992  included  United  States,  Germany,  Britain,  and  Japan. 

Currency:  Birr  (pi.,  birr;  no  symbol).  Prior  to  October  1,  1992, 
US$1  equaled  2.07  birr.  After  devaluation  on  that  date,  US$1 
equaled  4.94  birr.  Significant  parallel  currency  market  existed  be- 
fore devaluation. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Roads:  Construction  of  adequate  road  system  greatly  hampered 
by  rugged  terrain  of  highlands  and  normally  heavy  seasonal  rain- 
fall. Approximately  18,000  kilometers  of  roads  in  1991,  of  which 
13,000  kilometers  were  all-weather  roads.  Road  density  lowest  in 
Africa;  perhaps  three-fourths  of  farms  more  than  one-half  day's 
walk  from  an  all-weather  road. 

Railroads:  One  line  operating  in  1993  from  Addis  Ababa  to  city 
of  Djibouti.  Second  line  from  Akordat  to  Mitsiwa  discontinued 
operation  in  1976  because  of  unprofltability  and  partly  destroyed 
in  later  fighting. 


xvin 


Ports:  Two  major  ports — Aseb  and  Mitsiwa — both  in  Eritrea;  fur- 
ther access  to  ocean  transport  through  port  of  Djibouti;  all  usable 
by  deep-sea  vessels. 

Civil  Aviation:  Important  in  domestic  communications  because 
of  underdeveloped  state  of  other  means  of  transportation.  Inter- 
national airports  at  Addis  Ababa,  Asmera,  and  Dire  Dawa;  major 
airports  at  a  few  other  towns;  remaining  airfields  little  more  than 
landing  strips.  In  1993  Ethiopian  Airlines  provided  domestic  service 
to  some  forty-five  destinations  and  international  service  to  Africa, 
western  Europe,  India,  and  China. 

Telecommunications:  Minimal  system.  Radio-relay  links  con- 
nected Addis  Ababa  with  Nairobi  and  Djibouti;  other  international 
service  via  Atlantic  Ocean  satellite  of  International  Telecommu- 
nications Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat).  Limited  local  telephone 
service  and  equipment;  four  AM  radio  stations,  one  shortwave 
transmitter;  television  service  in  ten  cities. 

Government  and  Politics 

Party  and  Government:  Until  1974  revolution,  ruled  by  an  im- 
perial regime  whose  last  emperor  was  Haile  Selassie  I.  Following 
revolution,  a  socialist  state  based  on  principles  of  Marxism- 
Leninism,  led  by  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia.  Constitution  promul- 
gated in  1987  created  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia. 
In  theory,  National  Shengo  (National  Assembly)  highest  organ  of 
political  power,  but  real  power  centered  in  hands  of  Mengistu  Haile 
Mariam,  president  and  commander  in  chief  of  armed  forces. 

In  May  1991 ,  Mengistu  regime  overthrown  by  coalition  of  forces 
led  by  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Democratic  Front 
(EPRDF).  A  National  Conference  in  July  1991  created  Transi- 
tional Government  of  Ethiopia,  consisting  of  a  president  and  a  prime 
minister,  a  seventeen-member  Council  of  Ministers,  and  an  eighty- 
seven-member  Council  of  Representatives.  Transitional  govern- 
ment to  last  not  longer  than  two-and-one-half  years.  Meles  Zenawi, 
former  head  of  EPRDF,  elected  president  by  Council  of  Represen- 
tatives. In  mid- 1993  new  constitution  being  drafted  to  come  into 
force  not  later  than  early  1994. 

After  May  1991,  Eritrea  controlled  by  Eritrean  People's  Liber- 
ation Front  (EPLF).  EPLF  set  up  Provisional  Government  of 
Eritrea  under  its  leader,  Issaias  Afwerki.  In  a  referendum  held  April 
23-25,  1993,  more  than  98  percent  of  registered  voters  favored  in- 
dependence from  Ethiopia.  In  May  1993,  Government  of  Eritrea 
was  formed,  consisting  of  a  National  Assembly  with  supreme 


xix 


authority,  a  State  Council  with  executive  powers,  and  a  president. 
Issaias  Afwerki  elected  president  by  National  Assembly.  New 
government  to  last  not  longer  than  four  years,  during  which  a 
democratic  constitution  is  to  be  written. 

Judicial  System:  As  of  mid-1993,  new  judicial  system  being  es- 
tablished in  Ethiopia;  judicial  system  functioning  in  Eritrea. 

Administrative  Divisions:  In  mid- 1991  Transitional  Government 
of  Ethiopia  created  twelve  autonomous  regions  on  basis  of  ethnic 
identity,  plus  two  multiethnic  chartered  cities  (Addis  Ababa  and 
Harer).  Each  region  broken  into  districts  (weredas),  the  basic  unit 
of  administration.  On  June  21,  1992,  elections  were  held  to  fill  seats 
on  wereda  and  regional  councils. 

Foreign  Relations:  In  late  1980s,  Ethiopia  relied  on  Soviet  Union, 
Democratic  People's  Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea),  Israel,  and 
various  East  European  countries  for  military  assistance  and  on 
Western  nations  for  humanitarian  aid  and  small  amounts  of  eco- 
nomic assistance.  After  mid- 1991,  transitional  government  re- 
oriented Ethiopia's  foreign  relations  from  East  to  West,  establishing 
warm  relations  with  United  States  and  Western  Europe  and  seek- 
ing substantial  economic  aid  from  Western  countries  and  World 
Bank.  Ethiopia  also  active  in  attempts  to  mediate  the  civil  war  in 
Somalia. 

International  Agreements  and  Memberships:  Numerous,  includ- 
ing Organization  of  African  Unity  and  United  Nations  and  a  num- 
ber of  its  specialized  agencies,  such  as  World  Bank  and  International 
Monetary  Fund. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  In  mid- 1991,  combined  strength  of  Ethiopian 
armed  forces  about  438,000.  Ground  forces  estimated  at  430,000 
(including  about  200,000  members  of  People's  Militia).  Air  force 
estimated  at  4,500.  Navy  estimated  at  3,500.  After  downfall  of  Men- 
gistu  regime,  armed  forces  collapsed  and  were  dismantled  by 
EPRDF.  In  mid-1993,  EPRDF  had  100,000  to  120,000  guerrillas 
under  arms;  EPLF  had  between  85,000  and  100,000.  Both  planned 
to  transform  their  forces  into  conventional  armies  and  also  to  or- 
ganize air  forces  and  navies. 

Combat  Units  and  Major  Equipment:  Before  mid- 1991,  ground 
forces  organized  into  five  revolutionary  armies  comprising  thirty- 
one  infantry  divisions  supported  by  thirty- two  tank  battalions,  forty 


xx 


artillery  battalions,  twelve  air  defense  battalions,  and  eight  com- 
mando brigades.  Major  weapons  systems  included  T-54/55  and 
T-62  tanks,  various  caliber  howitzers  and  guns,  antiaircraft  guns, 
and  surface-to-air  missiles.  Air  force  organized  into  seven  fighter- 
ground  attack  squadrons,  one  transport  squadron,  and  one  train- 
ing squadron.  Equipment  included  150  combat  aircraft.  Navy 
equipment  included  two  frigates  and  twenty-four  patrol  and  coastal 
craft. 

After  downfall  of  Mengistu  government,  several  insurgent 
groups,  including  EPRDF,  EPLF,  and  Oromo  Liberation  Front, 
captured  a  considerable  amount  of  ground  equipment;  former  sol- 
diers sold  an  unknown  quantity  of  small  arms  and  light  equipment 
throughout  Horn  of  Africa.  Naval  crews  with  their  vessels  and  an 
unknown  number  of  pilots  with  their  aircraft  scattered  to  neigh- 
boring countries.  Information  on  military  organization,  person- 
nel strength,  and  equipment  types  and  numbers  in  both  Ethiopia 
and  Eritrea  unavailable  as  of  mid- 1993. 

Defense  Budget:  Estimated  at  US$472  million  in  United  States 
fiscal  year  1987-88.  No  figures  available  for  defense  expenditures 
for  Ethiopia  or  Eritrea  as  of  mid- 1993. 

Police  Agencies  and  Paramilitary  Forces:  National  police  in- 
cluded paramilitary  Mobile  Emergency  Police  Force,  estimated  at 
9,000.  Paramilitary  frontier  guards.  Local  law  enforcement  dele- 
gated to  civilian  paramilitary  People's  Protection  Brigades.  As  of 
mid- 1993,  a  national  police  force  functioned  throughout  Ethiopia. 
EPLF  personnel  performed  police  duties  throughout  Eritrea. 


xxi 


GOJAM 


TIGRAY  %V 

\    QMekele  \ 
GONDER    \  o  \ 

«  /         N_   ' 

Gonder  \ 


WELEGA 

Nekemte 


J 

r     SHEWA     )  Harer  m 

A         ®     ,  I 

F\     ^     ^  ^  ^  Addis  Ababa  /  \  HARERGE 

V    ®Gore  ;>     ^         f^ARSl\   _^  \ 
H  ILUBABOR   V®      )      ^f®>4se/a  >"  V 
_  ^  J/ma    -  y  — '  v 


"  KEFA  ®G°ba 
I        ^rba  Minch/i  \ 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ethiopia,  1974 


xxn 


-20 


12 


International 
boundary 

Administrative 
line 

Regional  boundary 

^SSil  Autonomous  region 

National  capital 

Regional  center 

Special  administrative 
subregional  center 

75    150  Kilometers 


80^ 


:  /  Lak* 

fflifff  Tana, 

f^'Vy  ® 
^  7  ®>  8  ft-/  ® 

A./®  >—~-]  ^ 

.      .  CADDIS  lb 

1 4 

® 


QuCfofMen 


12- 


A./®    >—~-  ^20^ 

,  m      .  CADDIS  16  .-J 

14    /  WW®  /  ^19 

-  A  ®  W  ®/'  J  i 

®  r  23^  f 
r.a. 


REGIONS 

CENTERS 

REGIONS 

CENTERS 

REGIONS 

CENTERS 

1. 

North  Eritrea 

Akordat 

13. 

Asosa 

Asosa 

25. 

East  Harerge 

Harer 

2. 

West  Eritrea 

Barentu 

14. 

Welega 

Nekemte 

26. 

llubabor 

Mizan  Teferi 

3. 

South  Eritrea 

Asmera 

15. 

West  Shewa 

Giyon 

27. 

South  Omo 

Jinka 

4. 

North  Gonder 

Gonder 

16. 

North  Shewa 

Debre  Birhan 

28. 

North  Omo 

Arba  Minch 

5. 

Tigray 

Mekele 

17. 

Addis  Ababa 

Addis  Ababa 

29. 

Sidamo 

Awasa 

6. 

Aseb 

Aseb 

18. 

East  Shewa 

Nazret 

30. 

Bale 

Goba 

7. 

Metekel 

Pawe 

19. 

West  Harerge 

Asbe  Teferi 

31. 

Borana 

Negele 

8. 

West  Gojam 

Bahir  Dar 

20. 

Dire  Dawa 

Dire  Dawa 

32. 

Ogaden 

Gode 

9. 

South  Gonder 

Debre  Tabor 

21. 

Gambela 

Gambela 

10. 

North  Welo 

Weldiya 

22. 

Kefa 

Jima  Note- 

-North  Eritrea,  West  Eritrea, 

11. 

East  Gojam 

Debre  Markos 

23. 

South  Shewa 

Ziway    and  South  Eritrea  are  subregions 

12. 

South  Welo 

Dese 

24. 

Arsi 

Asela    of  Eritrea  Autonomous  Region. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Paul  B.  Henze,  Ethiopia  in  1990:  The  Revolution  Unraveling, 
Santa  Monica,  California,  1991,  7. 


Figure  2.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ethiopia,  1987-91 


xxiii 


Introduction 


FEW  AFRICAN  COUNTRIES  have  had  such  a  long,  varied,  and 
troubled  history  as  Ethiopia.  The  Ethiopian  state  originated  in  the 
Aksumite  kingdom,  a  trading  state  that  emerged  about  the  first 
century  A.D.  The  Askumites  perfected  a  written  language;  main- 
tained relations  with  the  Byzantine  Empire,  Egypt,  and  the  Arabs; 
and,  in  the  mid-fourth  century,  embraced  Christianity.  After  the 
rise  of  Islam  in  the  seventh  century,  the  Aksumite  kingdom  be- 
came internationally  isolated  as  Arabs  gradually  gained  control  of 
maritime  trade  in  the  Red  Sea.  By  the  early  twelfth  century,  the 
successors  of  the  Aksumites  had  expanded  southward  and  had  es- 
tablished a  new  capital  and  a  line  of  kings  called  the  Zagwe.  A  new 
dynasty,  the  so-called  "Solomonic"  line,  which  came  to  power 
about  1270,  continued  this  territorial  expansion  and  pursued  a  more 
aggressive  foreign  policy.  In  addition,  this  Christian  state,  with  the 
help  of  Portuguese  soldiers,  repelled  a  near-overpowering  Islamic 
invasion. 

Starting  about  the  mid-sixteenth  century,  the  Oromo  people, 
migrating  from  the  southwest,  gradually  forced  their  way  into  the 
kingdom,  most  often  by  warfare.  The  Oromo,  who  eventually  con- 
stituted about  40  percent  of  Ethiopia's  population,  possessed  their 
own  culture,  religion,  and  political  institutions.  As  the  largest  na- 
tional group  in  Ethiopia,  the  Oromo  significantly  influenced  the 
course  of  the  country's  history  by  becoming  part  of  the  royal  family 
and  the  nobility  and  by  joining  the  army  or  the  imperial  govern- 
ment. During  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries,  religious 
and  regional  rivalries  gradually  weakened  the  imperial  state  until 
it  was  little  more  than  a  collection  of  independent  and  competing 
fiefdoms. 

Ethiopia's  modern  period  (1855  to  the  present) — represented  by 
the  reigns  of  Tewodros  II,  Yohannis  IV,  Menelik  II,  Zawditu,  and 
Haile  Selassie  I;  by  the  Marxist  regime  of  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam; 
and,  since  mid- 1991 ,  by  the  Transitional  Government  of  Ethiopia 
under  Meles  Zenawi — has  been  characterized  by  nation-building 
as  well  as  by  warfare.  Tewodros  II  started  the  process  of  recreat- 
ing a  cohesive  Ethiopian  state  by  incorporating  Shewa  into  his  em- 
pire and  by  suppressing  revolts  in  the  country's  other  provinces. 
Yohannis  IV  battled  to  keep  Ethiopia  free  from  foreign  domina- 
tion and  to  retard  the  growing  power  of  the  Shewan  king,  Menelik. 
Eventually,  Menelik  became  emperor  and  used  military  force 


xxv 


to  more  than  double  Ethiopia's  size.  He  also  defeated  an  Italian 
invasion  force  that  sought  to  colonize  the  country. 

Struggles  over  succession  to  the  throne  characterized  the  reign 
of  Zawditu — struggles  won  by  Haile  Selassie,  the  next  ruler.  After 
becoming  emperor  in  1930,  Haile  Selassie  embarked  on  a  nation- 
wide modernization  program.  However,  the  1935-36  Italo-Ethiopian 
war  halted  his  efforts  and  forced  him  into  exile.  After  returning 
to  Addis  Ababa  in  1941,  Haile  Selassie  undertook  further  military 
and  political  changes  and  sought  to  encourage  social  and  economic 
development.  Although  he  did  initiate  a  number  of  fundamental 
reforms,  the  emperor  was  essentially  an  autocrat,  who  to  a  great 
extent  relied  on  political  manipulation  and  military  force  to  remain 
in  power  and  to  preserve  the  Ethiopian  state.  Even  after  an  un- 
successful 1960  coup  attempt  led  by  the  Imperial  Bodyguard,  Haile 
Selassie  failed  to  pursue  the  political  and  economic  policies  neces- 
sary to  improve  the  lives  of  most  Ethiopians. 

In  1974  a  group  of  disgruntled  military  personnel  overthrew  the 
Ethiopian  monarchy.  Eventually,  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam,  who  par- 
ticipated in  the  coup  against  Haile  Selassie,  emerged  at  the  head 
of  a  Marxist  military  dictatorship.  Almost  immediately,  the  Mengistu 
regime  unleashed  a  military  and  political  reign  of  terror  against 
its  real  and  imagined  opponents.  It  also  pursued  socialist  economic 
policies  that  reduced  agricultural  productivity  and  helped  bring  on 
famine,  resulting  in  the  deaths  of  untold  tens  of  thousands  of  peo- 
ple. Thousands  more  fled  or  perished  as  a  result  of  government 
schemes  to  villagize  the  peasantry  and  to  relocate  peasants  from 
drought-prone  areas  of  the  north  to  better-watered  lands  in  the  south 
and  southwest. 

Aside  from  internal  dissent,  which  was  harshly  suppressed,  the 
regime  faced  armed  insurgencies  in  the  northern  part  of  the  coun- 
try. The  longest-running  of  these  was  in  Eritrea,  where  the  Eritrean 
People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF)  and  its  predecessors  had  been 
fighting  control  by  the  central  government  since  1961.  In  the 
mid-1970s,  a  second  major  insurgency  arose  in  Tigray,  where  the 
Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  (TPLF),  a  Marxist-Leninist  or- 
ganization under  the  leadership  of  Meles  Zenawi,  opposed  not  only 
the  policies  of  the  military  government  but  also  the  very  existence 
of  the  government  itself. 

In  foreign  affairs,  the  regime  aligned  itself  with  the  Soviet  Union. 
As  long  as  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies  provided  support  to  Ethio- 
pia's  armed  forces,  the  Mengistu  government  remained  secure. 
In  the  late  1980s,  however,  Soviet  support  waned,  a  major  factor 
in  undermining  the  ability  of  government  forces  to  prosecute  the 
wars  against  the  Eritreans  and  the  Tigray.  Gradually,  the  insurgent 


xxvi 


movements  gained  the  upper  hand.  By  May  1991,  the  EPLF  con- 
trolled almost  all  of  Eritrea,  and  the  TPLF,  operating  as  the  chief 
member  of  a  coalition  called  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolution- 
ary Democratic  Front  (EPRDF),  had  overrun  much  of  the  center 
of  the  country.  Faced  with  impending  defeat,  on  May  21  Mengistu 
fled  into  exile  in  Zimbabwe;  the  caretaker  government  he  left  be- 
hind collapsed  a  week  later.  The  EPLF  completed  its  sweep  of 
Eritrea  on  May  24  and  25,  and  a  few  days  later  EPLF  chairman 
Issaias  Afwerki  announced  the  formation  of  the  Provisional  Govern- 
ment of  Eritrea  (PGE).  Meanwhile,  on  May  27-28,  EPRDF  forces 
marched  into  Addis  Ababa  and  assumed  control  of  the  national 
government. 

After  seizing  power,  Tigrayan  and  Eritrean  leaders  confronted 
an  array  of  political,  economic,  and  security  problems  that  threat- 
ened to  overwhelm  both  new  governments.  Meles  Zenawi  and 
Issaias  Afwerki  committed  themselves  to  resolving  these  problems 
and  to  remaking  their  respective  societies.  To  achieve  these  goals, 
both  governments  adopted  similar  strategies,  which  concentrated 
on  national  reconciliation,  eventual  democratization,  good  rela- 
tions with  the  West,  and  social  and  economic  development.  Each 
leader,  however,  pursued  different  tactics  to  implement  his  respec- 
tive strategy. 

The  first  task  facing  the  new  rulers  in  Addis  Ababa  was  the  cre- 
ation of  an  interim  government.  To  this  end,  a  so-called  National 
Conference  was  convened  in  Addis  Ababa  from  July  1  to  July  5. 
Many  political  groups  from  across  a  broad  spectrum  were  invited 
to  attend,  but  the  EPRDF  barred  those  identified  with  the  former 
military  regime,  such  as  the  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia  and  the 
All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Movement,  as  well  as  those  that  were  op- 
posed to  the  EPRDF,  such  as  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolution- 
ary Party  and  the  Coalition  of  Ethiopian  Democratic  Forces.  A 
number  of  international  observers  also  attended,  including  dele- 
gations from  the  United  States,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  United 
Nations  (UN). 

Although  it  received  accolades  for  running  an  open  conference, 
the  EPRDF  tightly  controlled  the  proceedings.  The  conference 
adopted  a  National  Charter,  which  was  signed  by  representatives 
of  some  thirty-one  political  groups;  it  established  the  Transitional 
Government  of  Ethiopia  (TGE),  consisting  of  executive  and  legis- 
lative branches;  and  it  sanctioned  an  EPLF-EPRDF  agreement 
that  converted  Aseb  into  a  free  port  in  exchange  for  a  referendum 
on  Eritrean  self-determination  to  be  held  within  two  years.  The 
transitional  government  was  to  consist  of  the  offices  of  president 
and  prime  minister  and  a  seventeen-member  multiethnic  Council 


xxvii 


of  Ministers.  To  ensure  broad  political  representation,  an  eighty- 
seven  member  Council  of  Representatives  was  created,  which  was 
to  select  the  new  president,  draft  a  new  constitution,  and  oversee 
a  transition  to  a  new  national  government.  The  EPRDF  occupied 
thirty-two  of  the  eighty-seven  council  seats.  The  Oromo  Libera- 
tion Front  (OLF)  received  twelve  seats,  and  the  TPLF,  the  Oromo 
People's  Democratic  Organization,  and  the  Ethiopian  People's 
Democratic  Movement  each  occupied  ten  seats.  Twenty-seven  other 
groups  shared  the  remaining  seats. 

The  National  Charter  enshrined  the  guiding  principles  for  what 
was  expected  to  be  a  two-and-one-half-year  transitional  period.  The 
charter  called  for  creation  of  a  commission  to  draft  a  new  constitu- 
tion to  come  into  effect  by  early  1994.  It  also  committed  the  tran- 
sitional government  to  conduct  itself  in  accordance  with  the  UN 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  to  pursue  a  foreign 
policy  based  on  noninterference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  neighboring 
states.  Perhaps  its  most  significant  provisions  concerned  a  new  sys- 
tem of  internal  administration  in  which  the  principle  of  ethnicity 
was  to  constitute  the  basis  of  local  and  regional  government.  The 
charter  recognized  the  right  of  all  of  Ethiopia's  nationalities  to  self- 
determination,  a  right  that  was  to  be  exercised  within  the  context 
of  a  federated  Ethiopia,  and  called  for  creation  of  district  and  re- 
gional councils  on  the  basis  of  nationality. 

Essentially,  the  National  Conference  was  a  first,  basic  step  in 
the  reconstruction  of  a  viable,  legitimate  central  government.  With 
the  end  of  civil  wars  all  over  the  country,  the  aim  was  to  create 
a  balance  of  competing  ethnic  and  political  groups  at  the  center 
of  the  state  that  would  allow  the  wounds  of  war  to  heal  and  eco- 
nomic recovery  to  begin.  Additionally,  there  was  the  task  of  recon- 
ciling some  segments  of  the  population  to  the  impending  loss  of 
Eritrea  and  of  Ethiopia's  Red  Sea  ports. 

As  the  new  order  got  under  way,  the  Council  of  Representa- 
tives elected  Meles  Zenawi  president  of  the  TGE.  Then,  in  order 
to  implement  the  administrative  provisions  of  the  National  Charter, 
the  TGE  drew  up  twelve  autonomous  regions  based  on  ethnic  iden- 
tification and  recognized  two  multiethnic  chartered  cities — Addis 
Ababa  and  Harer.  The  largest  nationalities — the  Amhara,  Oromo, 
Somali,  and  Tigray — were  grouped  into  their  own  regions,  while 
an  attempt  was  made  to  put  culturally  related  smaller  groups 
together.  Each  region  was  composed  of  a  number  of  districts 
{weredas),  intended  to  be  the  basic  administrative  unit.  The  largest 
region — that  of  the  Oromo — contained  some  220  weredas;  the  next 
largest  region — that  of  the  Amhara — contained  126,  out  of  a  total 
of  600  weredas  in  all  of  Ethiopia.  Under  this  system,  each  wereda 

xxviii 


An  election  official  in  Dembi  Dolo,  in  Welega,  explains  procedures 
as  voters  register  for  district  and  regional  elections,  June  1992. 

Courtesy  LaVerle  Berry 

exercised  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial  authority  over  local 
communities,  while  the  central  government  remained  supreme  in 
matters  of  defense,  foreign  affairs,  economic  policy,  citizenship  re- 
quirements, and  currency. 

In  order  to  staff  these  new  administrative  units,  the  TGE  sched- 
uled national  elections.  Originally  foreseen  for  later  1991,  these 
elections  were  postponed  for  administrative  and  political  reasons 
into  1992.  By  then,  the  authorities  had  registered  almost  200  po- 
litical parties;  few  of  them,  however,  had  a  significant  member- 
ship or  any  real  influence  in  shaping  government  policies.  The  TGE 
held  preliminary  elections  for  local  governing  committees  begin- 
ning in  April  and  for  wereda  and  regional  councils  on  June  21 ,  1992. 

Security  problems  prevented  elections  from  being  held  in  some 
areas,  notably  among  the  Afar  and  the  Somali  and  in  Harer.  More 
important,  a  corps  of  some  250  UN  observers  concluded  that  the 
June  elections  suffered  from  a  number  of  serious  shortcomings, 
including  an  absence  of  genuine  competition,  intimidation  of  non- 
government parties  and  candidates,  closure  of  political  party  offices, 
and  jailing  and  even  shooting  of  candidates.  Numerous  observers 
also  claimed  that  various  administrative  and  logistical  problems 
impaired  the  electoral  process  and  that  many  Ethiopians  failed  to 


xxix 


understand  the  nature  of  multiparty  politics.  As  a  result,  several 
political  parties,  including  the  OLF,  the  All-Amhara  People's  Or- 
ganization, and  the  Gideo  People's  Democratic  Organization,  with- 
drew a  few  days  before  the  elections.  On  June  22,  the  OLF  withdrew 
from  the  government  and  prepared  to  take  up  arms  once  again. 
Nonetheless,  the  TGE  accepted  the  results  of  the  elections,  although 
it  appointed  a  commission  to  investigate  irregularities  and  to  take 
corrective  steps. 

In  the  economic  arena,  the  TGE  inherited  a  shattered  country. 
In  his  first  public  speech  after  the  EPRDF  had  captured  Addis 
Ababa,  Meles  Zenawi  indicated  that  Ethiopia's  coffers  were  empty; 
moreover,  some  7  million  people  were  threatened  with  starvation 
because  of  drought  and  civil  war.  Economic  performance  statis- 
tics reflected  this  gloomy  assessment.  In  Ethiopian  fiscal  year 
(EFY — see  Glossary)  1990/91,  for  example,  the  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  declined  by  5.6  percent,  the  greatest 
fall  since  the  1984-85  drought.  Preliminary  figures  indicated  a  fur- 
ther decline  in  GDP  in  EFY  1991/92,  although  some  gains  were 
registered  for  agriculture. 

To  resolve  these  problems,  the  TGE  abandoned  the  failed  poli- 
cies of  the  Mengistu  regime.  It  began  dismantling  the  country's 
command  economic  system  and  shifted  toward  a  market-oriented 
economy  with  emphasis  on  private  initiative.  In  December  1992, 
it  adopted  a  new  economic  policy  whereby  the  government  would 
maintain  control  over  essential  economic  sectors  such  as  banking, 
insurance,  petroleum,  mining,  and  chemical  industries.  However, 
retail  trade,  road  transport,  and  a  portion  of  foreign  trade  were  placed 
in  private  hands;  and  farmers  could  sell  their  produce  at  free-market 
prices,  although  land  remained  under  government  control.  While 
smaller  businesses  were  to  be  privatized,  agriculture  was  to  receive 
the  most  attention  and  investment.  By  1993  the  state  farms  of  the 
Mengistu  era  were  being  dismantled  and  turned  over  to  private 
farmers;  similarly,  the  agricultural  cooperatives  of  prior  years  had 
almost  all  disappeared.  A  major  effort  was  also  being  made  to  steer 
large  numbers  of  ex-soldiers  into  farming  as  a  way  of  increasing 
production  and  of  providing  much-needed  employment. 

Meanwhile,  on  October  1,  1992,  the  TGE  devalued  Ethiopia's 
currency  to  encourage  exports  and  to  aid  in  correcting  a  chronic 
balance  of  payments  deficit.  The  country  had  in  addition  begun 
to  receive  economic  aid  from  several  sources,  including  the  Euro- 
pean Community,  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  Japan,  Canada, 
and  the  United  States.  Developments  such  as  these  provided  a  solid 
foundation  for  future  economic  improvement — gains  that  in 
mid- 1993  were  still  very  much  in  the  realm  of  anticipation.  It 


xxx 


seemed  clear  that  Ethiopia  would  remain  one  of  the  world's  poorest 
nations  for  the  foreseeable  future. 

Since  the  downfall  of  the  Mengistu  regime,  Ethiopia's  human 
rights  record  has  improved.  At  the  same  time,  the  TGE  has  failed 
to  end  human  rights  abuses.  In  the  absence  of  a  police  force,  the 
TGE  delegated  policing  functions  to  the  EPRDF  and  to  so-called 
Peace  and  Stability  Committees.  On  occasion,  personnel  belong- 
ing to  these  organizations  were  alleged  to  have  killed,  wounded, 
or  tortured  criminal  suspects.  There  were  also  allegations  of  extra- 
judicial killings  in  many  areas  of  the  country. 

Several  incidents  in  early  1993  raised  further  questions  about 
human  rights  in  Ethiopia.  On  January  4,  security  forces  opened 
fire  on  university  students  protesting  UN  and  EPRDF  policies 
toward  Eritrea  and  the  upcoming  independence  referendum.  At 
least  one  person,  and  possibly  several  others,  died  during  the  fracas. 
In  early  April,  the  Council  of  Representatives  suspended  five 
southern  political  parties  from  council  membership  for  having  at- 
tended a  conference  in  Paris  at  which  the  parties  criticized  the  secu- 
rity situation  in  the  country  and  the  entire  transitional  process.  A 
few  days  later,  on  April  9,  more  than  forty  instructors  at  Addis 
Ababa  University  were  summarily  dismissed.  The  TGE  alleged 
lack  of  attention  to  teaching  duties  as  the  reason  for  its  action,  but 
the  instructors  asserted  that  they  were  being  punished  for  having 
spoken  out  against  TGE  policies.  These  developments  came  on  top 
of  United  States  Department  of  State  allegations  that  more  than 
2,000  officials  of  the  Mengistu  regime  remained  in  detention  without 
having  been  charged  after  almost  twenty  months. 

One  of  the  most  serious  dilemmas  confronting  the  TGE  con- 
cerned its  inability  to  restore  security  throughout  Ethiopia.  After 
the  EPRDF  assumed  power,  it  dismantled  the  440,000-member 
Ethiopian  armed  forces.  As  a  result,  several  hundred  thousand  ex- 
military  personnel  had  to  fend  for  themselves.  The  government's 
inability  to  fmd  jobs  for  these  soldiers  forced  many  of  them  to  resort 
to  crime  as  a  way  of  life.  Many  of  these  ex- soldiers  contributed 
to  the  instability  in  Addis  Ababa  and  parts  of  southern,  eastern, 
and  western  Ethiopia. 

To  help  resolve  these  problems,  the  TGE  created  the  Commis- 
sion for  the  Rehabilitation  of  Ex- Soldiers  and  War  Veterans.  By 
mid- 1993  this  organization  claimed  that  it  had  assisted  in  the  re- 
habilitation of  more  than  159,000  ex-soldiers  in  various  rural  areas. 
Additionally,  commission  officials  maintained  that  they  were  con- 
tinuing to  provide  aid  to  157,000  ex-soldiers  who  lived  in  various 
urban  centers. 


xxxi 


Apart  from  the  difficulties  caused  by  former  soldiers  and  crimi- 
nal elements,  several  insurgent  groups  hampered  the  TGE's  abil- 
ity to  maintain  stability  in  eastern  and  western  Ethiopia.  The 
situation  was  particularly  troublesome  with  the  OLF.  For  exam- 
ple, in  mid- 1991  government  forces  clashed  with  OLF  units  south- 
west of  Dire  Dawa  over  the  rights  to  collect  qat  revenues.  (Qat  is 
a  plant  that  produces  a  mild  narcotic  intoxication  when  chewed 
and  that  is  consumed  throughout  the  eastern  Horn  of  Africa  and 
in  Yemen.)  Although  the  two  groups  signed  a  peace  agreement 
in  August,  tensions  still  existed,  and  fighting  continued  around  Dire 
Dawa  and  Harer  at  year's  end.  In  early  1992,  EPRDF-OLF  rela- 
tions continued  to  deteriorate,  with  armed  clashes  occurring  at 
several  locations  throughout  eastern  and  western  Ethiopia.  After 
the  OLF  withdrew  from  the  elections  and  the  government  in  late 
June,  full-scale  fighting  broke  out  in  the  south  and  southwest,  but 
OLF  forces  were  too  weak  to  sustain  the  effort  for  more  than  a 
few  weeks.  Even  so,  in  April  1993  the  OLF  announced  that  it  was 
once  again  expanding  its  operations,  but  many  observers  doubted 
this  claim  and  the  OLF's  ability  to  launch  effective  military  cam- 
paigns against  government  forces. 

The  TGE  also  experienced  problems  with  the  Afar  pastoralists 
who  inhabit  the  lowlands  along  Ethiopia's  Red  Sea  coast,  particu- 
larly during  its  first  year  in  power.  In  early  September  1991,  some 
Afar  attacked  a  food  relief  truck  column  near  the  town  of  Mile  on 
the  Addis  Ababa- Aseb  road  and  killed  at  least  seven  drivers.  The 
EPRDF  restored  security  in  this  region  by  shooting  armed  Afar  on 
sight.  Since  then,  EPRDF- Afar  relations  have  remained  tense.  Some 
Afar  have  associated  themselves  with  the  OLF,  but  many  others 
joined  the  Afar  Liberation  Front,  which  by  early  1993  claimed  to 
have  2,500  members  under  arms. 

Elsewhere  in  eastern  Ethiopia,  the  TGE  experienced  problems 
with  the  Isa  and  Gurgura  Liberation  Front  (IGLF).  On  October  4, 
1991,  clashes  between  government  forces  and  IGLF  rebels  resulted 
in  the  temporary  closure  of  the  Addis  Ababa- Djibouti  railroad  near 
Dire  Dawa  and  the  disruption  of  trade  between  the  two  countries. 
The  fighting  also  disrupted  famine  relief  distribution  to  nearly  1 
million  refugees  in  eastern  Ethiopia.  By  early  1992,  the  IGLF  still 
had  refused  to  recognize  the  EPRDF 's  right  to  maintain  security 
in  the  Isa-populated  area  around  Dire  Dawa.  By  1993,  nonethe- 
less, improved  conditions  allowed  the  Addis  Ababa-Djibouti  rail- 
road to  operate  on  a  fairly  regular  basis. 

In  western  Ethiopia,  during  the  July-September  1991  period, 
the  EPRDF  engaged  in  several  battles  in  Gojam  and  Gonder  with 
the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Party,  the  only  major  political 


xxxn 


group  excluded  from  power.  Additionally,  in  Gambela,  the  EPRDF 
battled  the  Gambela  People's  Liberation  Front,  which  claimed  the 
right  to  administer  Gambela  without  EPRDF  interference.  The 
downfall  of  the  Mengistu  regime  also  created  a  crisis  for  approxi- 
mately 500,000  southern  Sudanese  who  lived  in  refugee  camps  in 
and  around  Gambela.  Although  the  new  government  claimed  they 
could  remain  in  Ethiopia,  nearly  all  of  the  refugees,  fearing  reprisals 
for  belonging  to  or  supporting  southern  Sudanese  insurgents  that 
the  EPRDF  opposed,  fled  toward  southern  Sudan.  As  a  result,  by 
early  1992  fewer  than  15,000  Sudanese  refugees  remained  in 
western  Ethiopia. 

In  southern  Ethiopia,  crime  was  the  main  security  problem.  In 
late  March  1992,  EPRDF  troops  reportedly  arrested  1,705  armed 
bandits  and  captured  thousands  of  weapons,  including  machine 
guns  and  rocket-propelled  grenades.  Despite  this  and  similar 
sweeps,  many  Western  observers  believed  that  security  problems 
would  continue  to  plague  the  EPRDF  regime  for  the  foreseeable 
future  because  of  the  large  number  of  available  arms  and  unem- 
ployed ex-fighters  in  the  south. 

In  contrast  with  the  political  divisiveness  in  Ethiopia,  nearly  all 
Eritreans  appeared  to  support  the  EPLF  and  its  goals.  As  a  result, 
in  the  first  two  years  after  military  victory,  the  PGE  was  able  to 
move  swiftly  on  a  number  of  fronts.  As  one  of  its  first  acts,  the 
new  government  expelled  thousands  of  soldiers  and  personnel  of 
the  former  Ethiopian  army  and  government  in  Eritrea,  together 
with  their  dependents,  forcing  them  across  the  border  into  Tigray. 
The  PGE  maintained  that  the  expulsions  were  necessary  to  free 
up  living  quarters  and  jobs  for  returning  Eritreans  and  to  help 
reduce  budgetary  oudays.  In  October  1992,  the  government  opened 
schools  across  Eritrea.  A  few  weeks  later,  the  PGE  announced  new 
criminal  and  civil  codes  and  appointed  dozens  of  judges  to  run  the 
court  system.  A  National  Service  Decree  made  it  mandatory  for 
all  Eritreans  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  forty  to  perform 
twelve  to  eighteen  months  of  unpaid  service  in  the  armed  forces, 
police,  government,  or  in  fields  such  as  education  or  health. 

Perhaps  most  important,  the  PGE  honored  the  agreement  it  had 
reached  with  the  EPRDF  and  the  OLF  in  1991  to  postpone  a 
referendum  on  the  question  of  Eritrean  independence  for  two  years. 
By  early  1993,  given  the  general  popularity  of  the  PGE  and  the  desire 
among  Eritreans  to  be  free  of  control  from  Addis  Ababa,  the  out- 
come of  the  referendum  was  a  foregone  conclusion.  On  April  23- 
25,  1993,  the  PGE  carried  out  the  poll.  In  a  turnout  of  98.5  percent 
of  the  approximately  1.1  million  registered  voters,  99.8  percent 
voted  for  independence.  A  121-member  UN  observer  mission 
certified  that  the  referendum  was  free  and  fair.  Within  hours,  the 


xxxin 


United  States,  Egypt,  Italy,  and  Sudan  extended  diplomatic  recog- 
nition to  the  new  country.  Thereafter,  Eritrea  joined  the  UN,  the 
Organization  of  Africa  Unity,  and  the  Lome  Convention  (see 
Glossary). 

A  month  after  the  referendum,  the  EPLF  transformed  the  PGE 
into  the  Government  of  Eritrea,  composed  of  executive,  legisla- 
tive, and  judicial  branches.  Supreme  power  resided  with  a  new  Na- 
tional Assembly,  composed  of  the  EPLF's  former  central  committee 
augmented  by  sixty  additional  representatives  from  the  ten  provinces 
into  which  Eritrea  was  divided.  Aside  from  formulating  internal 
and  external  policies  and  budgetary  matters,  the  assembly  was 
charged  with  electing  a  president,  who  would  be  head  of  state  and 
commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces.  The  executive  branch  con- 
sisted of  a  twenty-four-member  State  Council,  chaired  by  the  presi- 
dent. The  judiciary,  already  in  place,  continued  as  before.  At  its 
initial  meeting  on  May  21,  the  assembly  elected  Issaias  Afwerki 
president.  This  new  political  configuration  was  to  last  not  longer 
than  four  years,  during  which  time  a  democratic  constitution  was 
to  be  drafted  and  all  members  of  the  EPLF  would  continue  to  work 
for  the  state  without  salary. 

In  the  months  following  independence,  the  Eritrean  government 
enjoyed  almost  universal  popular  support.  Even  such  former  ad- 
versaries as  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front  (ELF),  the  Eritrean 
Liberation  Front-United  Organization,  and  the  Eritrean  Libera- 
tion Front-Revolutionary  Council  issued  statements  of  support  for 
the  referendum  and  for  the  new  regime.  During  his  first  press  con- 
ference after  the  referendum,  President  Issaias  stressed  that  his 
government  would  pursue  pragmatic  and  flexible  policies.  He  also 
discussed  prospects  for  close  economic  cooperation  with  Ethiopia 
and  raised  the  prospect  of  a  future  confederation  between  the  two 
countries.  Meanwhile,  the  president  pledged  that  Aseb  would  re- 
main a  free  port  for  goods  in  transit  to  Ethiopia.  Additionally,  he 
reaffirmed  the  EPLF's  commitment  to  the  eventual  establishment 
of  a  multiparty  political  system,  but  there  would  be  no  political 
parties  based  on  ethnicity  or  religion. 

Its  popularity  notwithstanding,  the  Eritrean  government  faced 
many  problems  and  an  uncertain  future.  Economically,  the  coun- 
try suffered  from  the  devastation  of  thirty  years  of  war.  Eritrea's 
forty  publicly  owned  factories  operated  at  no  more  than  one-third 
capacity,  and  many  of  its  more  than  600  private  companies  had 
ceased  operations.  War  damage  and  drought  had  caused  agricul- 
tural production  to  decline  by  as  much  as  40  percent  in  some  areas; 
as  a  result,  about  80  percent  of  the  population  required  food  aid 
in  1992.  The  fighting  also  had  wrecked  schools,  hospitals,  govern- 
ment offices,  roads,  and  bridges  throughout  the  country,  while 


xxxiv 


A  jubilant  crowd  in  Asmera  celebrates  results  of  the 
independence  referendum,  April  1993. 

Courtesy  Paul  B.  Henze 

bombing  had  destroyed  economically  important  towns  like  Mitsiwa 
and  Nakfa. 

To  resolve  these  problems,  Eritrea  implemented  a  multifaceted 
strategy  that  concentrated  on  restarting  basic  economic  activities 
and  rehabilitating  essential  infrastructure;  encouraging  the  return 
and  reintegration  of  nearly  500,000  Eritrean  refugees  from  neigh- 
boring Sudan;  and  establishing  the  Recovery  and  Rehabilitation 
Project  for  Eritrea.  Additionally,  the  Eritrean  government  reaf- 
firmed its  commitment  to  a  liberal  investment  code,  the  response 
to  which  by  mid- 1993  was  encouraging.  Even  so,  the  Eritrean 
government  estimated  that  it  needed  at  least  US$2  billion  to  re- 
habilitate the  economy  and  to  finance  development  programs — 
aid  that  it  sought  largely  from  Western  countries  and  financial  in- 
stitutions. 

Another  serious  issue  confronting  the  new  government  concerned 
the  status  of  the  country's  armed  forces.  Since  the  country's  libera- 
tion in  1991,  the  government  had  lacked  the  funds  to  pay  salaries. 
Nevertheless,  officials  adopted  a  compulsory  national  service  act  that 
required  all  former  fighters  to  labor  without  pay  for  two  years  on 
various  public  works  projects.  When  the  new  Government  of  Eritrea 
extended  unpaid  compulsory  national  service  for  an  additional  four 


xxxv 


years  on  May  20,  1993,  thousands  of  frustrated  former  fighters 
who  wanted  to  be  paid  and  to  return  at  last  to  their  families  demon- 
strated in  Asmera.  The  government  responded  by  promising  to 
begin  paying  the  fighters  and  by  instituting  a  military  demobiliza- 
tion program  that  would  allow  volunteers  who  could  fend  for  them- 
selves to  return  to  their  homes. 

Eritrea's  long-term  well-being  also  depended  on  President  Issaias's 
ability  to  preserve  the  country's  unity.  Achieving  this  goal  will  be 
difficult.  Eritrea's  3.5  million  population  is  split  equally  between 
Christians  and  Muslims;  it  also  is  divided  into  nine  ethnic  groups, 
each  of  which  speaks  a  different  language.  A  reemergence  of  the 
historical  divisions  between  the  Muslim-dominated  ELF  and  the 
largely  Christian  EPLF  is  possible  and  could  prove  to  be  the  young 
country's  undoing.  Also,  at  least  some  Eritreans  doubted  Presi- 
dent Issaias's  pledge  to  establish  a  multiparty  democracy  and  viewed 
with  skepticism  his  determination  to  prevent  the  establishment  of 
political  parties  based  on  ethnic  group  or  religion.  However,  as 
of  late  1993,  Eritrea  remained  at  peace,  and  the  government  en- 
joyed considerable  support.  As  a  result,  most  Western  observers 
maintained  that  the  country  had  a  good  chance  of  avoiding  the  tur- 
bulence that  has  plagued  much  of  the  rest  of  the  Horn  of  Africa. 

The  ultimate  fates  of  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  are  inevitably  inter- 
twined. For  economic  reasons,  Ethiopia  needs  to  preserve  its  access 
to  Eritrean  ports,  and  Eritrea  needs  food  from  Ethiopia  as  well  as  the 
revenue  and  jobs  that  will  be  generated  by  acting  as  a  transship- 
ment point  for  Ethiopian  goods.  Also,  political  and  military  cooper- 
ation will  be  necessary  to  prevent  conflict  between  the  two  nations. 

Despite  this  obvious  interdependence,  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  face 
a  difficult  future.  Many  Ethiopians,  primarily  those  who  are  Amhara, 
and  some  Eritreans,  largely  from  the  Muslim  community,  remain 
opposed  to  Eritrean  independence  and  the  EPLF-dominated  govern- 
ment. These  malcontents  could  become  a  catalyst  for  antigovernment 
activities  in  both  countries.  Within  Ethiopia,  the  TGE's  concept  of 
ethnicity  as  the  basis  for  organizing  political  life  has  aroused  con- 
troversy and  has  stymied  many  of  the  TGE's  policies  and  programs, 
thereby  reducing  chances  for  the  emergence  of  a  democratic  govern- 
ment. Additionally,  if  the  EPRDF  does  not  broaden  its  ethnic  base 
of  support  and  bring  such  groups  as  the  Amhara  and  the  Oromo 
into  the  political  process,  the  likelihood  of  violence  will  increase.  As 
of  late  1993,  it  was  unclear  whether  the  TGE's  plans  for  a  new  con- 
stitution and  national  government  would  resolve  these  problems  or 
would  founder  on  the  shoals  of  ethnic  politics  and  economic  despair. 

September  10,  1993  Thomas  P.  Ofcansky 


XXXVI 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Ethiopian  Orthodox  cathedral  at  Aksum,  built  in  the  seventeenth  century 


Modern  Ethiopia  is  the  product  of  many  millen- 
nia of  interaction  among  peoples  in  and  around  the  Ethiopian  high- 
lands region.  From  the  earliest  times,  these  groups  combined  to 
produce  a  culture  that  at  any  given  time  differed  markedly  from 
that  of  surrounding  peoples.  The  evolution  of  this  early  "Ethio- 
pian" culture  was  driven  by  a  variety  of  ethnic,  linguistic,  and  re- 
ligious groups. 

One  of  the  most  significant  influences  on  the  formation  and 
evolution  of  culture  in  northern  Ethiopia  consisted  of  migrants 
from  Southwest  Arabia.  They  arrived  during  the  first  millennium 
B.C.  and  brought  Semitic  speech,  writing,  and  a  distinctive  stone- 
building  tradition  to  northern  Ethiopia.  They  seem  to  have  con- 
tributed directly  to  the  rise  of  the  Aksumite  kingdom,  a  trading 
state  that  prospered  in  the  first  centuries  of  the  Christian  era  and 
that  united  the  shores  of  the  southern  Red  Sea  commercially  and 
at  times  politically.  It  was  an  Aksumite  king  who  accepted  Chris- 
tianity in  the  mid-fourth  century,  a  religion  that  the  Aksumites 
bequeathed  to  their  successors  along  with  their  concept  of  an  empire- 
state  under  centralized  rulership. 

The  establishment  of  what  became  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox 
Church  was  critical  in  molding  Ethiopian  culture  and  identity.  The 
spread  of  Islam  to  the  coastal  areas  of  the  Horn  of  Africa  in  the 
eighth  century,  however,  led  to  the  isolation  of  the  highlands  from 
European  and  Middle  Eastern  centers  of  Christendom.  The  appear- 
ance of  Islam  was  partly  responsible  for  what  became  a  long-term 
rivalry  between  Christians  and  Muslims — a  rivalry  that  exacerbated 
older  tensions  between  highlanders  and  lowlanders  and  agricul- 
turalists and  pastoralists  that  have  persisted  to  the  present  day. 

Kingship  and  Orthodoxy,  both  with  their  roots  in  Aksum,  be- 
came the  dominant  institutions  among  the  northern  Ethiopians  in 
the  post- Aksumite  period.  In  the  twelfth  and  thirteenth  centuries, 
a  dynasty  known  as  the  Zagwe  ruled  from  their  capital  in  the  north- 
ern highlands.  The  Zagwe  era  is  one  of  the  most  artistically  crea- 
tive periods  in  Ethiopian  history,  involving  among  other  things  the 
carving  of  a  large  number  of  rock-hewn  churches. 

The  Zagwe  heartland  was  well  south  of  the  old  Aksumite  do- 
main, and  the  Zagwe  interlude  was  but  one  phase  in  the  long-term 
southward  shift  of  the  locus  of  political  power.  The  successors  of 
the  Zagwe  after  the  mid-thirteenth  century — the  members  of  the 
so-called  "Solomonic"  dynasty — located  themselves  in  the  central 


3 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

highlands  and  involved  themselves  directly  in  the  affairs  of  neigh- 
boring peoples  still  farther  south  and  east. 

In  these  regions,  the  two  dominant  peoples  of  what  may  be 
termed  the  "Christian  kingdom  of  Ethiopia,"  the  Amhara  of  the 
central  highlands  and  the  Tigray  of  the  northern  highlands,  con- 
fronted the  growing  power  and  confidence  of  Muslim  peoples  who 
lived  between  the  eastern  edge  of  the  highlands  and  the  Red  Sea 
and  Gulf  of  Aden.  In  religious  and  ethnic  conflicts  that  reached 
their  climax  in  the  mid- sixteenth  century,  the  Amhara  and  Tigray 
turned  back  a  determined  Muslim  advance  with  Portuguese  as- 
sistance, but  only  after  the  northern  highlands  had  been  overrun 
and  devastated.  The  advent  of  the  Portuguese  in  the  area  marked 
the  end  of  the  long  period  of  isolation  from  the  rest  of  Christen- 
dom that  had  been  near  total,  except  for  contact  with  the  Coptic 
Church  of  Egypt.  The  Portuguese,  however,  represented  a  mixed 
blessing,  for  with  them  they  brought  their  religion— Roman  Cath- 
olicism. During  the  early  seventeenth  century,  Jesuit  and  kindred 
orders  sought  to  impose  Catholicism  on  Ethiopia,  an  effort  that 
led  to  civil  war  and  the  expulsion  of  the  Catholics  from  the  kingdom. 

By  the  mid-sixteenth  century,  the  Oromo  people  of  southwestern 
Ethiopia  had  begun  a  prolonged  series  of  migrations  during  which 
they  overwhelmed  the  Muslim  states  to  the  east  and  began  settling 
in  the  central  highlands.  A  profound  consequence  of  the  far-flung 
settlement  of  the  Oromo  was  the  fusion  of  their  culture  in  some 
areas  with  that  of  the  heretofore  dominant  Amhara  and  Tigray. 

The  period  of  trials  that  resulted  from  the  Muslim  invasions, 
the  Oromo  migrations,  and  the  challenge  of  Roman  Catholicism 
had  drawn  to  a  close  by  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
During  the  next  two-and-one-half  centuries,  a  reinvigorated  Ethio- 
pian state  slowly  reconsolidated  its  control  over  the  northern  high- 
lands and  eventually  resumed  expansion  to  the  south,  this  time  into 
lands  occupied  by  the  Oromo. 

By  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  the  Ethiopian  state  under  Em- 
peror Tewodros  II  (reigned  1855-68)  found  itself  beset  by  a  num- 
ber of  problems,  many  of  them  stemming  from  the  expansion  of 
European  influence  in  northeastern  Africa.  Tewodros' s  successors, 
Yohannis  IV  (reigned  1872-89)  and  Menelik  II  (reigned  1889- 
1913),  further  expanded  and  consolidated  the  state,  fended  off  local 
enemies,  and  dealt  with  the  encroachments  of  European  powers, 
in  particular  Italy,  France,  and  Britain.  Italy  posed  the  greatest 
threat,  having  begun  to  colonize  part  of  what  would  become  its 
future  colony  of  Eritrea  in  the  mid- 1880s. 

To  one  of  Menelik' s  successors,  Haile  Selassie  I  (reigned  1930- 
74),  was  left  the  task  of  dealing  with  resurgent  Italian  expansionism. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


The  disinclination  of  the  world  powers,  especially  those  in  the 
League  of  Nations,  to  counter  Italy's  attack  on  Ethiopia  in  1935 
was  in  many  ways  a  harbinger  of  the  indecisiveness  that  would  lead 
to  World  War  II .  In  the  early  years  of  the  war,  Ethiopia  was  retaken 
from  the  Italians  by  the  British,  who  continued  to  dominate  the 
country's  external  affairs  after  the  war  ended  in  1945.  A  restored 
Haile  Selassie  attempted  to  implement  reforms  and  modernize  the 
state  and  certain  sectors  of  the  economy.  For  the  most  part, 
however,  mid-twentieth  century  Ethiopia  resembled  what  could 
loosely  be  termed  a  "feudal"  society. 

The  later  years  of  Haile  Selassie's  rule  saw  a  growing  insurgency 
in  Eritrea,  which  had  been  federated  with  and  eventually  annexed 
by  the  Ethiopian  government  following  World  War  II.  This  insur- 
gency, along  with  other  internal  pressures,  including  severe  famine, 
placed  strains  on  Ethiopian  society  that  contributed  in  large  part 
to  the  1974  military  rebellion  that  ended  the  Haile  Selassie  regime 
and,  along  with  it,  more  than  2,000  years  of  imperial  rule.  The 
most  salient  results  of  the  coup  d'etat  were  the  eventual  emergence 
of  Lieutenant  Colonel  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam  as  head  of  state 
and  the  reorientation  of  the  government  and  national  economy  from 
capitalism  to  Marxism. 

A  series  of  crises  immediately  consumed  the  revolutionary  re- 
gime. First,  domestic  political  violence  erupted  as  groups  maneu- 
vered to  take  control  of  the  revolution.  Then,  the  Eritrean 
insurgency  flared  at  the  same  time  that  an  uprising  in  the  neigh- 
boring region  of  Tigray  began.  In  mid-1977  Somalia,  intent  upon 
wresting  control  of  the  Ogaden  region  from  Ethiopia  and  sensing 
Addis  Ababa's  distractions,  initiated  a  war  on  Ethiopia's  eastern 
frontier.  Mengistu,  in  need  of  military  assistance,  turned  to  the 
Soviet  Union  and  its  allies,  who  supplied  vast  amounts  of  equip- 
ment and  thousands  of  Cuban  combat  troops,  which  enabled  Ethio- 
pia to  repulse  the  Somali  invasion. 

Misery  mounted  throughout  Ethiopia  in  the  1980s.  Recurrent 
drought  and  famine,  made  worse  in  the  north  by  virtual  civil  war, 
took  an  enormous  human  toll,  necessitating  the  infusion  of  mas- 
sive amounts  of  international  humanitarian  aid.  The  insurgencies 
in  Eritrea,  Tigray,  and  other  regions  intensified  until  by  the  late 
1980s  they  threatened  the  stability  of  the  regime.  Drought,  eco- 
nomic mismanagement,  and  the  financial  burdens  of  war  ravaged 
the  economy.  At  the  same  time,  democratic  reform  in  Eastern 
Europe  and  the  Soviet  Union  threatened  to  isolate  the  revolution- 
ary government  politically,  militarily,  and  economically  from  its 
allies. 


5 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Origins  and  the  Early  Periods 

Early  Populations  and  Neighboring  States 

Details  on  the  origins  of  all  the  peoples  that  make  up  the  popu- 
lation of  highland  Ethiopia  were  still  matters  for  research  and  de- 
bate in  the  early  1990s.  Anthropologists  believe  that  East  Africa's 
Great  Rift  Valley  is  the  site  of  humankind's  origins.  (The  valley 
traverses  Ethiopia  from  southwest  to  northeast.)  In  1974  archaeol- 
ogists excavating  sites  in  the  Awash  River  valley  discovered 
3.5-million-year-old  fossil  skeletons,  which  they  named  Australopithe- 
cus afarensis.  These  earliest  known  hominids  stood  upright,  lived 
in  groups,  and  had  adapted  to  living  in  open  areas  rather  than  in 
forests. 

Coming  forward  to  the  late  Stone  Age,  recent  research  in  histor- 
ical linguistics — and  increasingly  in  archaeology  as  well — has  begun 
to  clarify  the  broad  outlines  of  the  prehistoric  populations  of  present- 
day  Ethiopia.  These  populations  spoke  languages  that  belong  to 
the  Afro-Asiatic  super-language  family,  a  group  of  related  languages 
that  includes  Omotic,  Cushitic,  and  Semitic,  all  of  which  are  found 
in  Ethiopia  today.  Linguists  postulate  that  the  original  home  of 
the  Afro-Asiatic  cluster  of  languages  was  somewhere  in  northeastern 
Africa,  possibly  in  the  area  between  the  Nile  River  and  the  Red 
Sea  in  modern  Sudan.  From  here  the  major  languages  of  the  fam- 
ily gradually  dispersed  at  different  times  and  in  different  direc- 
tions— these  languages  being  ancestral  to  those  spoken  today  in 
northern  and  northeastern  Africa  and  far  southwestern  Asia. 

The  first  language  to  separate  seems  to  have  been  Omotic,  at 
a  date  sometime  after  13,000  B.C.  Omotic  speakers  moved  south- 
ward into  the  central  and  southwestern  highlands  of  Ethiopia,  fol- 
lowed at  some  subsequent  time  by  Cushitic  speakers,  who  settled 
in  territories  in  the  northern  Horn  of  Africa,  including  the  north- 
ern highlands  of  Ethiopia.  The  last  language  to  separate  was  Se- 
mitic, which  split  from  Berber  and  ancient  Egyptian,  two  other 
Afro-Asiatic  languages,  and  migrated  eastward  into  far  south- 
western Asia. 

By  about  7000  B.C.  at  the  latest,  linguistic  evidence  indicates 
that  both  Cushitic  speakers  and  Omotic  speakers  were  present  in 
Ethiopia.  Linguistic  diversification  within  each  group  thereafter 
gave  rise  to  a  large  number  of  new  languages.  In  the  case  of 
Cushitic,  these  include  Agew  in  the  central  and  northern  highlands 
and,  in  regions  to  the  east  and  southeast,  Saho,  Afar,  Somali, 
Sidamo,  and  Oromo,  all  spoken  by  peoples  who  would  play  major 
roles  in  the  subsequent  history  of  the  region.  Omotic  also  spawned 
a  large  number  of  languages,  Welamo  (often  called  Wolayta)  and 


6 


Historical  Setting 


Gemu-Gofa  being  among  the  most  widely  spoken  of  them,  but 
Omotic  speakers  would  remain  outside  the  main  zone  of  ethnic  in- 
teraction in  Ethiopia  until  the  late  nineteenth  century. 

Both  Cushitic-  and  Omotic-speaking  peoples  collected  wild 
grasses  and  other  plants  for  thousands  of  years  before  they  even- 
tually domesticated  those  they  most  preferred.  According  to  lin- 
guistic and  limited  archaeological  analyses,  plough  agriculture  based 
on  grain  cultivation  was  established  in  the  drier,  grassier  parts  of 
the  northern  highlands  by  at  least  several  millennia  before  the  Chris- 
tian era.  Indigenous  grasses  such  as  teff  (see  Glossary)  and  eleu- 
sine  were  the  initial  domesticates;  considerably  later,  barley  and 
wheat  were  introduced  from  Southwest  Asia.  The  corresponding 
domesticate  in  the  better  watered  and  heavily  forested  southern 
highlands  was  ensete,  a  root  crop  known  locally  as  false  banana. 
All  of  these  early  peoples  also  kept  domesticated  animals,  includ- 
ing catde,  sheep,  goats,  and  donkeys.  Thus,  from  the  late  prehistoric 
period,  agricultural  patterns  of  livelihood  were  established  that  were 
to  be  characteristic  of  the  region  through  modern  times.  It  was  the 
descendants  of  these  peoples  and  cultures  of  the  Ethiopian  region 
who  at  various  times  and  places  interacted  with  successive  waves 
of  migrants  from  across  the  Red  Sea.  This  interaction  began  well 
before  the  modern  era  and  has  continued  through  contemporary 
times. 

During  the  first  millennium  B.C.  and  possibly  even  earlier,  var- 
ious Semitic-speaking  groups  from  Southwest  Arabia  began  to  cross 
the  Red  Sea  and  settle  along  the  coast  and  in  the  nearby  highlands. 
These  migrants  brought  with  them  their  Semitic  speech  (Sabaean 
and  perhaps  others)  and  script  (Old  Epigraphic  South  Arabic)  and 
monumental  stone  architecture.  A  fusion  of  the  newcomers  with 
the  indigenous  inhabitants  produced  a  culture  known  as  pre- 
Aksumite.  The  factors  that  motivated  this  settlement  in  the  area 
are  not  known,  but  to  judge  from  subsequent  history,  commercial 
activity  must  have  figured  strongly.  The  port  city  of  Adulis,  near 
modern-day  Mitsiwa,  was  a  major  regional  entrepot  and  proba- 
bly the  main  gateway  to  the  interior  for  new  arrivals  from  South- 
west Arabia.  Archaeological  evidence  indicates  that  by  the 
beginning  of  the  Christian  era  this  pre-Aksumite  culture  had  de- 
veloped western  and  eastern  regional  variants.  The  former,  which 
included  the  region  of  Aksum,  was  probably  the  polity  or  series 
of  polities  that  became  the  Aksumite  state. 

The  Aksumite  State 

The  Aksumite  state  emerged  at  about  the  beginning  of  the  Chris- 
tian era,  flourished  during  the  succeeding  six  or  seven  centuries, 


7 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

and  underwent  prolonged  decline  from  the  eighth  to  the  twelfth 
century  A.D.  Aksum's  period  of  greatest  power  lasted  from  the 
fourth  through  the  sixth  century.  Its  core  area  lay  in  the  highlands 
of  what  is  today  southern  Eritrea,  Tigray,  Lasta  (in  present-day 
Welo),  and  Angot  (also  in  Welo);  its  major  centers  were  at  Aksum 
and  Adulis.  Earlier  centers,  such  as  Yeha,  also  continued  to  flour- 
ish. At  the  kingdom's  height,  its  rulers  held  sway  over  the  Red 
Sea  coast  from  Sawakin  in  present-day  Sudan  in  the  north  to 
Berbera  in  present-day  Somalia  in  the  south,  and  inland  as  far  as 
the  Nile  Valley  in  modern  Sudan.  On  the  Arabian  side  of  the  Red 
Sea,  the  Aksumite  rulers  at  times  controlled  the  coast  and  much 
of  the  interior  of  modern  Yemen.  During  the  sixth  and  seventh 
centuries,  the  Aksumite  state  lost  its  possessions  in  Southwest  Arabia 
and  much  of  its  Red  Sea  coastline  and  gradually  shrank  to  its  core 
area,  with  the  political  center  of  the  state  shifting  farther  and  far- 
ther southward. 

Inscriptions  from  Aksum  and  elsewhere  date  from  as  early  as 
the  end  of  the  second  century  A.D.  and  reveal  an  Aksumite  state 
that  already  had  expanded  at  the  expense  of  neighboring  peoples. 
The  Greek  inscriptions  of  King  Zoskales  (who  ruled  at  the  end  of 
the  second  century  A.D.)  claim  that  he  conquered  the  lands  to  the 
south  and  southwest  of  what  is  now  Tigray  and  controlled  the  Red 
Sea  coast  from  Sawakin  south  to  the  present-day  Djibouti  and 
Berbera  areas.  The  Aksumite  state  controlled  parts  of  Southwest 
Arabia  as  well  during  this  time,  and  subsequent  Aksumite  rulers 
continually  involved  themselves  in  the  political  and  military  affairs 
of  Southwest  Arabia,  especially  in  what  is  now  Yemen.  Much  of 
the  impetus  for  foreign  conquest  lay  in  the  desire  to  control  the 
maritime  trade  between  the  Roman  Empire  and  India  and  adjoining 
lands.  Indeed,  King  Zoskales  is  mentioned  by  name  in  the  Periplus 
of  the  Erythrean  Sea  (the  Latin  term  for  the  Red  Sea  is  Mare 
Erythreum),  a  Greek  shipping  guide  of  the  first  to  third  centuries 
A.D.,  as  promoting  commerce  with  Rome,  Arabia,  and  India. 
Among  the  African  commodities  that  the  Aksumites  exported  were 
gold,  rhinoceros  horn,  ivory,  incense,  and  obsidian;  in  return,  they 
imported  cloth,  glass,  iron,  olive  oil,  and  wine. 

During  the  third  and  fourth  centuries,  the  traditions  related  to 
Aksumite  rule  became  fixed.  Gedara,  who  lived  in  the  late  second 
and  early  third  centuries,  is  referred  to  as  the  king  of  Aksum  in 
inscriptions  written  in  Gi'iz  (also  seen  as  Ge'ez),  the  Semitic  lan- 
guage of  the  Aksumite  kingdom.  The  growth  of  imperial  traditions 
was  concurrent  with  the  expansion  of  foreign  holdings,  especially 
in  Southwest  Arabia  in  the  late  second  century  A.D.  and  later  in 


8 


Historical  Setting 


areas  west  of  the  Ethiopian  highlands,  including  the  kingdom  of 
Meroe. 

Meroe  was  centered  on  the  Nile  north  of  the  confluence  of  the 
White  Nile  and  Blue  Nile.  Established  by  the  sixth  century  B.C. 
or  earlier,  the  kingdom's  inhabitants  were  black  Africans  who  were 
heavily  influenced  by  Egyptian  culture.  It  was  probably  the  peo- 
ple of  Meroe  who  were  the  first  to  be  called  Aithiopiai  ('  'burnt  faces' ') 
by  the  ancient  Greeks,  thus  giving  rise  to  the  term  Ethiopia  that 
considerably  later  was  used  to  designate  the  northern  highlands 
of  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  its  inhabitants.  No  evidence  suggests 
that  Meroe  had  any  political  influence  over  the  areas  included  in 
modern  Ethiopia;  economic  influence  is  harder  to  gauge  because 
ancient  commercial  networks  in  the  area  were  probably  extensive 
and  involved  much  long-distance  trade. 

Sometime  around  A.D.  300,  Aksumite  armies  conquered  Meroe 
or  forced  its  abandonment.  By  the  early  fourth  century  A.D. ,  King 
Ezana  (reigned  325-60)  controlled  a  domain  extending  from  South- 
west Arabia  across  the  Red  Sea  west  to  Meroe  and  south  from 
Sawakin  to  the  southern  coast  of  the  Gulf  of  Aden.  As  an  indica- 
tion of  the  type  of  political  control  he  exercised,  Ezana,  like  other 
Aksumite  rulers,  carried  the  title  negusa  nagast  (king  of  kings),  sym- 
bolic of  his  rule  over  numerous  tribute-paying  principalities  and 
a  title  used  by  successive  Ethiopian  rulers  into  the  mid-twentieth 
century. 

The  Aksumites  created  a  civilization  of  considerable  distinction. 
They  devised  an  original  architectural  style  and  employed  it  in  stone 
palaces  and  other  public  buildings.  They  also  erected  a  series  of 
carved  stone  stelae  at  Aksum  as  monuments  to  their  deceased  rul- 
ers. Some  of  these  stelae  are  among  the  largest  known  from  the 
ancient  world.  The  Aksumites  left  behind  a  body  of  written  records, 
that,  although  not  voluminous,  are  nonetheless  a  legacy  otherwise 
bequeathed  only  by  Egypt  and  Meroe  among  ancient  African  king- 
doms. These  records  were  written  in  two  languages — Gi'iz  and 
Greek.  Gi'iz  is  assumed  to  be  ancestral  to  modern  Amharic  and 
Tigrinya,  although  possibly  only  indirectly.  Greek  was  also  widely 
used,  especially  for  commercial  transactions  with  the  Hellenized 
world  of  the  eastern  Mediterranean.  Even  more  remarkable  and 
wholly  unique  for  ancient  Africa  was  the  minting  of  coins  over  an 
approximately  300-year  period.  These  coins,  many  with  inlay  of 
gold  on  bronze  or  silver,  provide  a  chronology  of  the  rulers  of 
Aksum. 

One  of  the  most  important  contributions  the  Aksumite  state  made 
to  Ethiopian  tradition  was  the  establishment  of  the  Christian 
Church.  The  Aksumite  state  and  its  forebears  had  certainly  been 


9 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

in  contact  with  Judaism  since  the  first  millennium  B.C.  and  with 
Christianity  beginning  in  the  first  century  A.D.  These  interactions 
probably  were  rather  limited.  However,  during  the  second  and  third 
centuries,  Christianity  spread  throughout  the  region.  Around  A.D. 
330-40,  Ezana  was  converted  to  Christianity  and  made  it  the  offi- 
cial state  religion.  The  variant  of  Christianity  adopted  by  the 
Aksumite  state,  however,  eventually  followed  the  Monophysite  be- 
lief, which  embraced  the  notion  of  one  rather  than  two  separate 
natures  in  the  person  of  Christ  as  defined  by  the  Council  of  Chal- 
cedon  in  451  (see  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christianity,  ch.  2). 

Little  is  known  about  fifth-century  Aksum,  but  early  in  the  next 
century  Aksumite  rulers  reasserted  their  control  over  Southwest 
Arabia,  although  only  for  a  short  time.  Later  in  the  sixth  century, 
however,  Sassanian  Persians  established  themselves  in  Yemen,  ef- 
fectively ending  any  pretense  of  Aksumite  control.  Thereafter,  the 
Sassanians  attacked  Byzantine  Egypt,  further  disrupting  Aksumite 
trade  networks  in  the  Red  Sea  area.  Over  the  next  century  and 
a  half,  Aksum  was  increasingly  cut  off  from  its  overseas  entrepots 
and  as  a  result  entered  a  period  of  prolonged  decline,  gradually 
relinquishing  its  maritime  trading  network  and  withdrawing  into 
the  interior  of  northern  Ethiopia. 

Ethiopia  and  the  Early  Islamic  Period 

The  rise  of  Islam  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula  had  a  significant  im- 
pact on  Aksum  during  the  seventh  and  eighth  centuries.  By  the 
time  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad's  death  (A.D.  632),  the  Arabian 
Peninsula,  and  thus  the  entire  opposite  shore  of  the  Red  Sea,  had 
come  under  the  influence  of  the  new  religion.  The  steady  advance 
of  the  faith  of  Muhammad  through  the  next  century  resulted  in 
Islamic  conquest  of  all  of  the  former  Sassanian  Empire  and  most 
of  the  former  Byzantine  dominions. 

Despite  the  spread  of  Islam  by  conquest  elsewhere,  the  Islamic 
state's  relations  with  Aksum  were  not  hostile  at  first.  According 
to  Islamic  tradition,  some  members  of  Muhammad's  family  and 
some  of  his  early  converts  had  taken  refuge  with  the  Aksumites 
during  the  troubled  years  preceding  the  Prophet's  rise  to  power, 
and  Aksum  was  exempted  from  the  jihad,  or  holy  war,  as  a  result. 
The  Arabs  also  considered  the  Aksumite  state  to  be  on  a  par  with 
the  Islamic  state,  the  Byzantine  Empire,  and  China  as  one  of  the 
world's  greatest  kingdoms.  Commerce  between  Aksum  and  at  least 
some  ports  on  the  Red  Sea  continued,  albeit  on  an  increasingly 
reduced  scale. 

Problems  between  Aksum  and  the  new  Arab  power,  however, 
soon  developed.  The  establishment  of  Islam  in  Egypt  and  the  Levant 


10 


Historical  Setting 


greatly  reduced  Aksum's  relations  with  the  major  Christian  power, 
the  Byzantine  Empire.  Although  contact  with  individual  Christian 
churches  in  Egypt  and  other  lands  continued,  the  Muslim  conquests 
hastened  the  isolation  of  the  church  in  Aksum.  Limited  commu- 
nication continued,  the  most  significant  being  with  the  Coptic 
Church  in  Egypt,  which  supplied  a  patriarch  to  the  Aksumites. 
Such  contacts,  however,  were  insufficient  to  counter  an  ever- 
growing ecclesiastical  isolation.  Perhaps  more  important,  Islamic 
expansion  threatened  Aksum's  maritime  contacts,  already  under 
siege  by  Sassanian  Persians.  Red  Sea  and  Indian  Ocean  trade, 
formerly  dominated  by  the  Byzantine  Empire,  Aksum,  and  Per- 
sia, gradually  came  under  the  control  of  Muslim  Arabs,  who  also 
propagated  their  faith  through  commercial  activities  and  other 
contacts. 

Aksum  lost  its  maritime  trade  routes  during  and  after  the  mid- 
seventh  century,  by  which  time  relations  with  the  Arabs  had  de- 
teriorated to  the  point  that  Aksumite  and  Muslim  fleets  raided  and 
skirmished  in  the  Red  Sea.  This  situation  led  eventually  to  the  Arab 
occupation  of  the  Dahlak  Islands,  probably  in  the  early  eighth  cen- 
tury and,  it  appears,  to  an  attack  on  Adulis  and  the  Aksumite  fleet. 
Later,  Muslims  occupied  Sawakin  and  converted  the  Beja  people 
of  that  region  to  Islam. 

By  the  middle  of  the  ninth  century,  Islam  had  spread  to  the 
southern  coast  of  the  Gulf  of  Aden  and  the  coast  of  East  Africa, 
and  the  foundations  were  laid  for  the  later  extensive  conversions 
of  the  local  populace  to  Islam  in  these  and  adjacent  regions.  East 
of  the  central  highlands,  a  Muslim  sultanate,  Ifat,  was  established 
by  the  beginning  of  the  twelfth  century,  and  some  of  the  surround- 
ing Cushitic  peoples  were  gradually  converted.  These  conversions 
of  peoples  to  the  south  and  southeast  of  the  highlands  who  had  previ- 
ously practiced  local  religions  were  generally  brought  about  by  the 
proselytizing  efforts  of  Arab  merchants.  This  population,  perma- 
nently Islamicized,  thereafter  contended  with  the  Amhara-Tigray 
peoples  for  control  of  the  Horn  of  Africa. 

The  Zagwe  Dynasty 

In  response  to  Islamic  expansion  in  the  Red  Sea  area  and  the 
loss  of  their  seaborne  commercial  network,  the  Aksumites  turned 
their  attention  to  the  colonizing  of  the  northern  Ethiopian  high- 
lands. The  Agew  peoples,  divided  into  a  number  of  groups,  in- 
habited the  central  and  northern  highlands,  and  it  was  these  peoples 
who  came  increasingly  under  Aksumite  influence.  In  all  probabil- 
ity, this  process  of  acculturation  had  been  going  on  since  the  first 
migrants  from  Southwest  Arabia  settled  in  the  highlands,  but  it 


11 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

seems  to  have  received  new  impetus  with  the  decline  of  Aksum's 
overseas  trade  and  consequent  dependence  upon  solely  African 
resources.  As  early  as  the  mid-seventh  century,  the  old  capital  at 
Aksum  had  been  abandoned;  thereafter,  it  served  only  as  a  reli- 
gious center  and  as  a  place  of  coronation  for  a  succession  of  kings 
who  traced  their  lineage  to  Aksum.  By  then,  Aksumite  cultural, 
political,  and  religious  influence  had  been  established  south  of 
Tigray  in  such  Agew  districts  as  Lasta,  Wag,  Angot,  and,  eventu- 
ally, Amhara. 

This  southward  expansion  continued  over  the  next  several 
centuries.  The  favored  technique  involved  the  establishment  of 
military  colonies,  which  served  as  core  populations  from  which 
Aksumite  culture,  Semitic  language,  and  Christianity  spread  to  the 
surrounding  Agew  population.  By  the  tenth  century,  a  post- 
Aksumite  Christian  kingdom  had  emerged  that  controlled  the  cen- 
tral northern  highlands  from  modern  Eritrea  to  Shewa  and  the  coast 
from  old  Adulis  to  Zeila  in  present-day  Somalia,  territory  consider- 
ably larger  than  the  Aksumites  had  governed.  Military  colonies 
were  also  established  farther  afield  among  the  Sidama  people  of 
the  central  highlands.  These  settlers  may  have  been  the  forerunners 
of  such  Semitic-speaking  groups  as  the  Argobba,  Gafat  (extinct), 
Gurage,  and  Hareri,  although  independent  settlement  of  Semitic 
speakers  from  Southwest  Arabia  is  also  possible.  During  the  eleventh 
and  twelfth  centuries,  the  Shewan  region  was  the  scene  of  renewed 
Christian  expansion,  carried  out,  it  appears,  by  one  of  the  more 
recently  Semiticized  peoples — the  Amhara. 

About  1137a  new  dynasty  came  to  power  in  the  Christian  high- 
lands. Known  as  the  Zagwe  and  based  in  the  Agew  district  of  Lasta, 
it  developed  naturally  out  of  the  long  cultural  and  political  contact 
between  Cushitic-  and  Semitic-speaking  peoples  in  the  northern 
highlands.  Staunch  Christians,  the  Zagwe  devoted  themselves  to 
the  construction  of  new  churches  and  monasteries.  These  were  often 
modeled  after  Christian  religious  edifices  in  the  Holy  Land,  a  locale 
the  Zagwe  and  their  subjects  held  in  special  esteem.  Patrons  of  liter- 
ature and  the  arts  in  the  service  of  Christianity,  the  Zagwe  kings 
were  responsible,  among  other  things,  for  the  great  churches  carved 
into  the  rock  in  and  around  their  capital  at  Adefa.  In  time,  Adefa 
became  known  as  Lalibela,  the  name  of  the  Zagwe  king  to  whose 
reign  the  Adefa  churches'  construction  has  been  attributed. 

By  the  time  of  the  Zagwe,  the  Ethiopian  church  was  showing 
the  effects  of  long  centuries  of  isolation  from  the  larger  Christian 
and  Orthodox  worlds.  After  the  seventh  century,  when  Egypt  suc- 
cumbed to  the  Arab  conquest,  the  highlanders'  sole  contact  with 
outside  Christianity  was  with  the  Coptic  Church  of  Egypt,  which 


12 


Medhani  Alem  Church,  one  of  twelve  rock-hewn  churches  in  Lalibela 
Courtesy  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural 

Organization  (G.S.  Wade) 

periodically  supplied  a  patriarch,  or  abun,  upon  royal  request.  Dur- 
ing the  long  period  from  the  seventh  to  the  twelfth  century,  the 
Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church  came  to  place  strong  emphasis  upon 
the  Old  Testament  and  on  the  Judaic  roots  of  the  church.  Chris- 
tianity in  Ethiopia  became  imbued  with  Old  Testament  belief  and 
practice  in  many  ways,  which  differentiated  it  not  only  from  Euro- 
pean Christianity  but  also  from  the  faith  of  other  Monophy sites, 
such  as  the  Copts.  Under  the  Zagwe,  the  highlanders  maintained 
regular  contact  with  the  Egyptians.  Also,  by  then  the  Ethiopian 
church  had  demonstrated  that  it  was  not  a  proselytizing  religion 
but  rather  one  that  by  and  large  restricted  its  attention  to  already 
converted  areas  of  the  highlands.  Not  until  the  fourteenth  and 
fifteenth  centuries  did  the  church  demonstrate  real  interest  in 
proselytizing  among  nonbelievers,  and  then  it  did  so  via  a  rein- 
vigorated  monastic  movement. 

The  "Restoration"  of  the  "Solomonic"  Line 

The  Zagwe 's  championing  of  Christianity  and  their  artistic 
achievements  notwithstanding,  there  was  much  discontent  with 
Lastan  rule  among  the  populace  in  what  is  now  Eritrea  and  Tigray 
and  among  the  Amhara,  an  increasingly  powerful  people  who 


13 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


inhabited  a  region  called  Amhara  to  the  south  of  the  Zagwe  center 
at  Adefa.  About  1270,  an  Amhara  noble,  Yekuno  Amlak,  drove 
out  the  last  Zagwe  ruler  and  proclaimed  himself  king.  His  assump- 
tion of  power  marked  yet  another  stage  in  the  southward  march 
of  what  may  henceforth  be  termed  the  '  'Christian  kingdom  of  Ethio- 
pia" and  ushered  in  an  era  of  increased  contact  with  the  Levant, 
the  Middle  East,  and  Europe. 

The  new  dynasty  that  Yekuno  Amlak  founded  came  to  be  known 
as  the  "Solomonic"  dynasty  because  its  scions  claimed  descent  not 
only  from  Aksum  but  also  from  King  Solomon  of  ancient  Israel. 
According  to  traditions  that  were  eventually  molded  into  a  national 
epic,  the  lineage  of  Aksumite  kings  originated  with  the  offspring 
of  an  alleged  union  between  Solomon  and  the  Queen  of  Sheba, 
whose  domains  Ethiopians  have  variously  identified  with  parts  of 
Southwest  Arabia  and/or  Aksum.  Consequently,  the  notion  arose 
that  royal  legitimacy  derived  from  descent  in  a  line  of  Solomonic 
kings.  The  Tigray  and  Amhara,  who  saw  themselves  as  heirs  to 
Aksum,  denied  the  Zagwe  any  share  in  that  heritage  and  viewed 
the  Zagwe  as  usurpers.  Yekuno  Amlak' s  accession  thus  came  to 
be  seen  as  the  legitimate  "restoration"  of  the  Solomonic  line,  even 
though  the  Amhara  king's  northern  ancestry  was  at  best  uncer- 
tain. Nonetheless,  his  assumption  of  the  throne  brought  the  Solo- 
monic dynasty  to  power,  and  all  subsequent  Ethiopian  kings  traced 
their  legitimacy  to  him  and,  thereby,  to  Solomon  and  Sheba. 

Under  Yekuno  Amlak,  Amhara  became  the  geographical  and 
political  center  of  the  Christian  kingdom.  The  new  king  concerned 
himself  with  the  consolidation  of  his  control  over  the  northern  high- 
lands and  with  the  weakening  and,  where  possible,  destruction  of 
encircling  pagan  and  Muslim  states.  He  enjoyed  some  of  his  greatest 
success  against  Ifat,  an  Islamic  sultanate  to  the  southeast  of  Am- 
hara that  posed  a  threat  to  trade  routes  between  Zeila  and  the  cen- 
tral highlands  (see  fig.  3). 

Upon  his  death  in  1285,  Yekuno  Amlak  was  succeeded  by  his 
son,  Yagba  Siyon  (reigned  1285-94).  His  reign  and  the  period  im- 
mediately following  were  marked  by  constant  struggles  among  the 
sons  and  grandsons  of  Yekuno  Amlak.  This  internecine  conflict 
was  resolved  sometime  around  1300,  when  it  became  the  rule  for 
all  males  tracing  descent  from  Yekuno  Amlak  (except  the  reigning 
emperor  and  his  sons)  to  be  held  in  a  mountaintop  prison  that  was 
approachable  only  on  one  side  and  that  was  guarded  by  soldiers 
under  a  commandant  loyal  to  the  reigning  monarch.  When  that 
monarch  died,  all  his  sons  except  his  heir  were  also  permanently 
imprisoned.  This  practice  was  followed  with  some  exceptions  until 
the  royal  prison  was  destroyed  in  the  early  sixteenth  century. 


14 


Historical  Setting 


The  royal  prison  was  one  solution  to  a  problem  that  would  plague 
the  Solomonic  line  throughout  its  history:  the  conflict  over  succes- 
sion among  those  who  had  any  claim  to  royal  lineage. 

Amhara  Ascendancy 

Yekuno  Amlak's  grandson,  Amda  Siyon  (reigned  1313-44),  dis- 
tinguished himself  by  at  last  establishing  firm  control  over  all  of 
the  Christian  districts  of  the  kingdom  and  by  expanding  into  the 
neighboring  regions  of  Shewa,  Gojam,  and  Damot  and  into  Agew 
districts  in  the  Lake  Tana  area.  He  also  devoted  much  attention 
to  campaigns  against  Muslim  states  to  the  east  and  southeast  of 
Amhara,  such  as  Ifat,  which  still  posed  a  powerful  threat  to  the 
kingdom,  and  against  Hadya,  a  Sidama  state  southwest  of  Shewa. 
These  victories  gave  him  control  of  the  central  highlands  and  en- 
hanced his  influence  over  trade  routes  to  the  Red  Sea.  His  con- 
quests also  helped  facilitate  the  spread  of  Christianity  in  the  southern 
highlands. 

Zara  Yakob  (reigned  1434-68)  was  without  a  doubt  one  of  the 
greatest  Ethiopian  rulers.  His  substantial  military  accomplishments 
included  a  decisive  victory  in  1445  over  the  sultanate  of  Adal  and 
its  Muslim  pastoral  allies,  who  for  two  centuries  had  been  a  source 
of  determined  opposition  to  the  Christian  highlanders.  Zara  Yakob 
also  sought  to  strengthen  royal  control  over  what  was  a  highly 
decentralized  administrative  system.  Some  of  his  most  notable 
achievements  were  in  ecclesiastical  matters,  where  he  sponsored 
a  reorganization  of  the  Orthodox  Church,  attempted  to  unify  its 
religious  practices,  and  fostered  proselytization  among  nonbelievers. 
Perhaps  most  remarkable  was  a  flowering  of  Gi'iz  literature,  in 
which  the  king  himself  composed  a  number  of  important  religious 
tracts. 

Beginning  in  the  fourteenth  century,  the  power  of  the  negusa  nagast 
(king  of  kings),  as  the  emperor  was  called,  was  in  theory  unlimi- 
ted, but  in  reality  it  was  often  considerably  less  than  that.  The  unity 
of  the  state  depended  on  an  emperor's  ability  to  control  the  local 
governors  of  the  various  regions  that  composed  the  kingdom,  these 
rulers  being  self-made  men  with  their  own  local  bases  of  support. 
In  general,  the  court  did  not  interfere  with  these  rulers  so  long  as 
the  latter  demonstrated  loyalty  through  the  collection  and  submis- 
sion of  royal  tribute  and  through  the  contribution  of  armed  men 
as  needed  for  the  king's  campaigns.  When  the  military  had  to  be 
used,  it  was  under  central  control  but  was  composed  of  provincial 
levies  or  troops  who  lived  off  the  land,  or  who  were  supported  by 
the  provincial  governments  that  supplied  them  (see  Military  Tra- 
dition in  National  Life,  ch.  5).  The  result  was  that  the  expenses 


15 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  3.  The  Early  Period,  Thirteenth  to  Seventeenth  Centuries 


borne  by  the  imperial  administration  were  small,  whereas  the  con- 
tributions and  tribute  provided  by  the  provinces  were  substantial. 

In  theory,  the  emperor  had  unrestrained  control  of  political  and 
military  affairs.  In  actuality,  however,  local  and  even  hereditary 
interests  were  recognized  and  respected  so  long  as  local  rulers  paid 
tribute,  supplied  levies  of  warriors,  and,  in  general,  complied  with 
royal  dictates.  Failure  to  honor  obligations  to  the  throne  could  and 
often  did  bring  retribution  in  the  form  of  battle  and,  if  the  emperor's 


16 


Historical  Setting 


forces  won,  plunder  of  the  district  and  removal  of  the  local  gover- 
nor. Ethiopian  rulers  continually  moved  around  the  kingdom,  an 
important  technique  for  assertion  of  royal  authority  and  for  col- 
lection— and  consumption — of  taxes  levied  in  kind.  The  emperor 
was  surrounded  by  ceremony  and  protocol  intended  to  enhance 
his  status  as  a  descendant  of  King  Solomon  and  the  Queen  of  Sheba. 
He  lived  in  seclusion  and  was  shielded,  except  on  rare  occasions, 
from  the  gaze  of  all  but  his  servants  and  high  court  officials.  Most 
other  subjects  were  denied  access  to  his  person. 

The  emperor's  judicial  function  was  of  primary  importance.  The 
administration  of  justice  was  centralized  at  court  and  was  condi- 
tioned by  a  body  of  Egyptian  Coptic  law  known  as  the  Fetha  Nagast 
(Law  of  Kings),  introduced  into  Ethiopia  in  the  mid-fifteenth  cen- 
tury (see  The  Legal  System,  ch.  5).  Judges  appointed  by  the  em- 
peror were  attached  to  the  administration  of  every  provincial 
governor.  They  not  only  heard  cases  but  also  determined  when 
cases  could  be  referred  to  the  governor  or  sent  on  appeal  to  the 
central  government. 

The  Trials  of  the  Christian  Kingdom  and  the 
Decline  of  Imperial  Power 

From  the  mid-fifteenth  through  the  mid-seventeenth  century, 
Christian  Ethiopians  were  confronted  by  the  aggressiveness  of  the 
Muslim  states,  the  far-reaching  migrations  of  the  Oromo,  and  the 
efforts  of  the  Portuguese — who  had  been  summoned  to  aid  in  the 
fight  against  the  forces  of  Islam — to  convert  them  from  Monophysite 
Christianity  to  Roman  Catholicism.  The  effects  of  the  Muslim  and 
Oromo  activities  and  of  the  civil  strife  engendered  by  the  Portuguese 
left  the  empire  much  weakened  by  the  mid-seventeenth  century. 
One  result  was  the  emergence  of  regional  lords  essentially  indepen- 
dent of  the  throne,  although  in  principle  subject  to  it. 

Growth  of  Regional  Muslim  States 

Beginning  in  the  thirteenth  century,  one  of  the  chief  problems 
confronting  the  Christian  kingdom,  then  ruled  by  the  Amhara,  was 
the  threat  of  Muslim  encirclement.  By  that  time,  a  variety  of  peo- 
ples east  and  south  of  the  highlands  had  embraced  Islam,  and  some 
had  established  powerful  sultanates  (or  shaykhdoms).  One  of  these 
was  the  sultanate  of  Ifat  in  the  northeastern  Shewan  foothills,  and 
another  was  centered  in  the  Islamic  city  of  Harer  farther  east.  In 
the  lowlands  along  the  Red  Sea  were  two  other  important  Muslim 
peoples — the  Afar  and  the  Somali.  As  mentioned  previc  lsly,  Ifat 
posed  a  major  threat  to  the  Christian  kingdom,  but  it  was  finally 
defeated  by  Amda  Siyon  in  the  mid-fourteenth  century  after  a 


17 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

protracted  struggle.  During  this  conflict,  Ifat  was  supported  by  other 
sultanates  and  by  Muslim  pastoralists,  but  for  the  most  part,  the 
Islamicized  peoples  inhabited  small,  independent  states  and  were 
divided  by  differences  in  language  and  culture.  Many  of  them  spoke 
Cushitic  languages,  unlike  the  Semitic  speakers  of  Harer.  Some 
were  sedentary  cultivators  and  traders,  while  others  were  pastoral- 
ists. Consequently,  unity  beyond  a  single  campaign  or  even  the 
coordination  of  military  activities  was  difficult  to  sustain. 

Their  tendency  toward  disunity  notwithstanding,  the  Muslim 
forces  continued  to  pose  intermittent  threats  to  the  Christian  king- 
dom. By  the  late  fourteenth  century,  descendants  of  the  ruling  fam- 
ily of  Ifat  had  moved  east  to  the  area  around  Harer  and  had 
reinvigorated  the  old  Muslim  sultanate  of  Adal,  which  became  the 
most  powerful  Muslim  entity  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Adal  came 
to  control  the  important  trading  routes  from  the  highlands  to  the 
port  of  Zeila,  thus  posing  a  threat  to  Ethiopia's  commerce  and, 
at  times,  to  Christian  control  of  the  highlands. 

Although  the  Christian  state  was  unable  to  impose  its  rule  over 
the  Muslim  states  to  the  east,  it  was  strong  enough  to  resist  Mus- 
lim incursions  through  the  fourteenth  century  and  most  of  the 
fifteenth.  As  the  long  reign  of  Zara  Yakob  came  to  an  end,  however, 
the  kingdom  again  experienced  succession  problems.  It  was  the 
monarchs'  practice  to  marry  several  wives,  and  each  sought  to  for- 
ward the  cause  of  her  sons  in  the  struggle  for  the  throne.  In  those 
cases  where  the  sons  of  the  deceased  king  were  too  young  to  take 
office,  there  could  also  be  conflict  within  the  council  of  advisers 
at  court.  In  a  polity  that  had  been  held  together  primarily  by  a 
strong  warrior  king,  one  or  more  generations  of  dynastic  conflict 
could  lead  to  serious  internal  and  external  problems.  Only  the  per- 
sistence of  internal  conflicts  among  Muslims  generally  and  within 
the  sultanate  of  Adal  in  particular  prevented  a  Muslim  onslaught. 
Through  the  first  quarter  of  the  sixteenth  century,  relations  be- 
tween Christian  and  Muslim  powers  took  the  form  of  raids  and 
counterraids.  Each  side  sought  to  claim  as  many  slaves  and  as  much 
booty  as  possible,  but  neither  side  attempted  to  bring  the  other 
firmly  under  its  rule. 

By  the  second  decade  of  the  sixteenth  century,  however,  a  young 
soldier  in  the  Adali  army,  Ahmad  ibn  Ibrahim  al  Ghazi,  had  begun 
to  acquire  a  strong  following  by  virtue  of  his  military  successes  and 
in  time  became  the  de  facto  leader  of  Adal.  Concurrently,  he  ac- 
quired the  status  of  a  religious  leader.  Ahmad,  who  came  to  be 
called  Gran  (the  "Lefthanded")  by  his  Christian  enemies,  rallied 
the  ethnically  diverse  Muslims,  including  many  Afar  and  Somali, 
in  a  jihad  intended  to  break  Christian  power.  In  1525  Grafi  led 


18 


Seventeenth-century  Portuguese  church  beside  Lake  Tana 
Courtesy  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural 

Organization  (Roger  Ferra) 

his  first  expedition  against  a  Christian  army  and  over  the  next  two 
or  three  years  continued  to  attack  Ethiopian  territory,  burning 
churches,  taking  prisoners,  and  collecting  booty.  At  the  Battle  of 
Shimbra  Kure  in  1529,  according  to  historian  Taddesse  Tamrat, 
"Imam  Ahmad  broke  the  backbone  of  Christian  resistance  against 
his  offensives."  The  emperor,  Lebna  Dengel  (reigned  1508-40), 
was  unable  to  organize  an  effective  defense,  and  in  the  early  1530s 
Gran's  armies  penetrated  the  heartland  of  the  Ethiopian  state — 
northern  Shewa,  Amhara,  and  Tigray,  devastating  the  country- 
side and  thereafter  putting  much  of  what  had  been  the  Christian 
kingdom  under  the  rule  of  Muslim  governors. 

It  was  not  until  1543  that  the  emperor  Galawdewos  (reigned 
1540-59),  joining  with  a  small  number  of  Portuguese  soldiers 
requested  earlier  by  Lebna  Dengel,  defeated  the  Muslim  forces  and 
killed  Grafi.  The  death  of  the  charismatic  Gran  destroyed  the 
unity  of  the  Muslim  forces  that  had  been  created  by  their  leader's 
successes,  skill,  and  reputation  as  a  warrior  and  religious  figure. 
Christian  armies  slowly  pushed  the  Muslims  back  and  regained 
control  of  the  highlands.  Ethiopians  had  suffered  extraordinary 
material  and  moral  losses  during  the  struggle  against  Grafi,  and 
it  would  be  decades  or  even  centuries  before  they  would  recover 


19 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

fully.  The  memory  of  the  bitter  war  against  Gran  remains  vivid 
even  today. 

Oromo  Migrations  and  Their  Impact 

In  the  mid- sixteenth  century,  its  political  and  military  organi- 
zation already  weakened  by  the  Muslim  assault,  the  Christian  king- 
dom began  to  be  pressured  on  the  south  and  southeast  by 
movements  of  the  Oromo  (called  Galla  by  the  Amhara).  These 
migrations  also  affected  the  Sidama,  Muslim  pastoralists  in  the 
lowlands,  and  Adal.  At  this  time,  the  Oromo,  settled  in  far  southern 
Ethiopia,  were  an  egalitarian  pastoral  people  divided  into  a  num- 
ber of  competing  segments  or  groups.  They  shared,  however,  a 
type  of  age- set  system  (see  Glossary)  of  social  organization  called 
the  gada  system  (see  Glossary),  which  was  ideally  suited  for  warfare. 
Their  predilection  toward  warfare,  apparently  combined  with  an 
expanding  population  of  both  people  and  cattle,  led  to  a  long-term 
predatory  expansion  at  the  expense  of  their  neighbors  after  about 
1550.  Unlike  the  highland  Christians  or  on  occasion  the  lowland 
Muslims,  the  Oromo  were  not  concerned  with  establishing  an  em- 
pire or  imposing  a  religious  system.  In  a  series  of  massive  but  un- 
coordinated movements  during  the  second  half  of  the  sixteenth 
century,  they  penetrated  much  of  the  southern  and  northern  high- 
lands as  well  as  the  lowlands  to  the  east,  affecting  Christians  and 
Muslims  equally. 

These  migrations  also  profoundly  affected  the  Oromo.  Disunited 
in  the  extreme,  they  attacked  and  raided  each  other  as  readily  as 
neighboring  peoples  in  their  quest  for  new  land  and  pastures.  As 
they  moved  farther  from  their  homeland  and  encountered  new  phys- 
ical and  human  environments,  entire  segments  of  the  Oromo  popu- 
lation adapted  by  changing  their  mode  of  economic  life,  their 
political  and  social  organization,  and  their  religious  adherence. 
Many  mixed  with  the  Amhara  (particularly  in  Shewa),  became 
Christians,  and  eventually  obtained  a  share  in  governing  the  king- 
dom. In  some  cases,  royal  family  members  came  from  the  union 
of  Amhara  and  Oromo  elements.  In  other  cases,  Oromo,  without 
losing  their  identity,  became  part  of  the  nobility.  But  no  matter 
how  much  they  changed,  Oromo  groups  generally  retained  their 
language  and  sense  of  local  identity.  So  differentiated  and  dispersed 
had  they  become,  however,  that  few  foreign  observers  recognized 
the  Oromo  as  a  distinct  people  until  the  twentieth  century. 

In  a  more  immediate  sense,  the  Oromo  migration  resulted  in 
a  weakening  of  both  Christian  and  Muslim  power  and  drove  a 
wedge  between  the  two  faiths  along  the  eastern  edge  of  the  high- 
lands. In  the  Christian  kingdom,  Oromo  groups  infiltrated  large 


20 


Historical  Setting 


areas  in  the  east  and  south,  with  large  numbers  settling  in  Shewa 
and  adjacent  parts  of  the  central  highlands.  Others  penetrated  as 
far  north  as  eastern  Tigray.  The  effect  of  the  Oromo  migrations 
was  to  leave  the  Ethiopian  state  fragmented  and  much  reduced  in 
size,  with  an  alien  population  in  its  midst.  Thereafter,  the  Oromo 
played  a  major  role  in  the  internal  dynamics  of  Ethiopia,  both  as- 
similating and  being  assimilated  as  they  were  slowly  incorporated 
into  the  Christian  kingdom.  In  the  south,  the  Sidama  fiercely  re- 
sisted the  Oromo,  but,  as  in  the  central  and  northern  highlands, 
they  were  compelled  to  yield  at  least  some  territory.  In  the  east, 
the  Oromo  swept  up  to  and  even  beyond  Harer,  dealing  a  devastat- 
ing blow  to  what  remained  of  Adal  and  contributing  in  a  major 
way  to  its  decline. 

Contact  with  European  Christendom 

Egyptian  Muslims  had  destroyed  the  neighboring  Nile  River  val- 
ley's Christian  states  in  the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  centuries.  Tenu- 
ous relations  with  Christians  in  western  Europe  and  the  Byzantine 
Empire  continued  via  the  Coptic  Church  in  Egypt.  The  Coptic 
patriarchs  in  Alexandria  were  responsible  for  the  assignment  of 
Ethiopian  patriarchs — a  church  policy  that  Egypt's  Muslim  rulers 
occasionally  tried  to  use  to  their  advantage.  For  centuries  after  the 
Muslim  conquests  of  the  early  medieval  period,  this  link  with  the 
Eastern  churches  constituted  practically  all  of  Ethiopia's  adminis- 
trative connection  with  the  larger  Christian  world. 

A  more  direct  if  less  formal  contact  with  the  outside  Christian 
world  was  maintained  through  the  Ethiopian  Monophysite  com- 
munity in  Jerusalem  and  the  visits  of  Ethiopian  pilgrims  to  the  Holy 
Land.  Ethiopian  monks  from  the  Jerusalem  community  attended 
the  Council  of  Florence  in  1441  at  the  invitation  of  the  pope,  who 
was  seeking  to  reunite  the  Eastern  and  Western  churches.  Western- 
ers learned  about  Ethiopia  through  the  monks  and  pilgrims  and 
became  attracted  to  it  for  two  main  reasons.  First,  many  believed 
Ethiopia  was  the  long-sought  land  of  the  legendary  Christian  priest- 
king  of  the  East,  Prester  John.  Second,  the  West  viewed  Ethiopia 
as  a  potentially  valuable  ally  in  its  struggle  against  Islamic  forces 
that  continued  to  threaten  southern  Europe  until  the  Turkish  defeat 
at  the  Battle  of  Lepanto  in  1571. 

Portugal,  the  first  European  power  to  circumnavigate  Africa  and 
enter  the  Indian  Ocean,  displayed  initial  interest  in  this  potential 
ally  by  sending  a  representative  to  Ethiopia  in  1493.  The  Ethio- 
pians, in  turn,  sent  an  envoy  to  Portugal  in  1509  to  request  a  coor- 
dinated attack  on  the  Muslims.  Europe  received  its  first  written 
accounts  of  the  country  from  Father  Francisco  Alvarez,  a  Franciscan 


21 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

who  accompanied  a  Portuguese  diplomatic  expedition  to  Ethiopia 
in  the  1520s.  His  book,  The  Prester  John  of  the  Indies,  stirred  further 
European  interest  and  proved  a  valuable  source  for  future  histor- 
ians. The  first  Portuguese  forces  responded  to  a  request  for  aid 
in  1541,  although  by  that  time  the  Portuguese  were  concerned 
primarily  with  strengthening  their  hegemony  over  the  Indian  Ocean 
trade  routes  and  with  converting  the  Ethiopians  to  Roman  Catholi- 
cism. Nevertheless,  joining  the  forces  of  the  Christian  kingdom, 
the  Portuguese  succeeded  eventually  in  helping  to  defeat  and  kill 
Gran. 

Portuguese  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  arrived  in  1554.  Ef- 
forts to  induce  the  Ethiopians  to  reject  their  Monophysite  beliefs 
and  accept  Rome's  supremacy  continued  for  nearly  a  century  and 
engendered  bitterness  as  pro-  and  anti-Catholic  parties  maneuvered 
for  control  of  the  state.  At  least  two  emperors  in  this  period  al- 
legedly converted  to  Roman  Catholicism.  The  second  of  these, 
Susenyos  (reigned  1607-32),  after  a  particularly  fierce  battle  be- 
tween adherents  of  the  two  faiths,  abdicated  in  1632  in  favor  of 
his  son,  Fasiladas  (reigned  1632-67),  to  spare  the  country  further 
bloodshed.  The  expulsion  of  the  Jesuits  and  all  Roman  Catholic 
missionaries  followed.  This  religious  controversy  left  a  legacy  of 
deep  hostility  toward  foreign  Christians  and  Europeans  that  con- 
tinued into  the  twentieth  century.  It  also  contributed  to  the  isola- 
tion that  followed  for  the  next  200  years. 

The  Gonder  State  and  the  Ascendancy  of  the  Nobility 

Emperor  Fasiladas  kept  out  the  disruptive  influences  of  the  for- 
eign Christians,  dealt  with  sporadic  Muslim  incursions,  and  in 
general  sought  to  reassert  central  authority  and  to  reinvigorate  the 
Solomonic  monarchy  and  the  Orthodox  Church.  He  revived  the 
practice  of  confining  royal  family  members  on  a  remote  mountain- 
top  to  lessen  challenges  to  his  rule  and  distinguished  himself  by 
reconstructing  the  cathedral  at  Aksum  (destroyed  by  Gran)  and 
by  establishing  his  camp  at  Gonder — a  locale  that  gradually  devel- 
oped into  a  permanent  capital  and  became  the  cultural  and  politi- 
cal center  of  Ethiopia  during  the  Gonder  period. 

Although  the  Gonder  period  produced  a  flowering  of  architec- 
ture and  art  that  lasted  more  than  a  century,  Gonder  monarchs 
never  regained  full  control  over  the  wealth  and  manpower  that  the 
nobility  had  usurped  during  the  long  wars  against  Gran  and  then 
the  Oromo.  Many  nobles,  commanding  the  loyalty  of  their  home 
districts,  had  become  virtually  independent,  especially  those  on  the 
periphery  of  the  kingdom.  Moreover,  during  Fasiladas 's  reign  and 
that  of  his  son  Yohannis  I  (reigned  1667-82),  there  were  substantial 


22 


The  castle  of  Emperor 
Yohannis  I  (1667-82)  in  Gonder 
Courtesy  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific, 
and  Cultural  Organization 
(G.S.  Wade) 


differences  between  the  two  monastic  orders  of  the  Orthodox 
Church  concerning  the  proper  response  to  the  Jesuit  challenge  to 
Monophysite  doctrine  on  the  nature  of  Christ.  The  positions  of 
the  two  orders  were  often  linked  to  regional  opposition  to  the  em- 
peror, and  neither  Fasiladas  nor  Yohannis  was  able  to  settle  the 
issue  without  alienating  important  components  of  the  church. 

Iyasu  I  (reigned  1682-1706)  was  a  celebrated  military  leader  who 
excelled  at  the  most  basic  requirement  of  the  warrior-king.  He  cam- 
paigned constantly  in  districts  on  the  south  and  southeast  of  the 
kingdom  and  personally  led  expeditions  to  Shewa  and  beyond,  areas 
from  which  royal  armies  had  long  been  absent.  Iyasu  also  attempted 
to  mediate  the  doctrinal  quarrel  in  the  church,  but  a  solution  eluded 
him.  He  sponsored  the  construction  of  several  churches,  among 
them  Debre  Birhan  Selassie,  one  of  the  most  beautiful  and  famous 
of  the  churches  in  Gonder. 

Iyasu 's  reign  also  saw  the  Oromo  begin  to  play  a  role  in  the  af- 
fairs of  the  kingdom,  especially  in  the  military  sense.  Iyasu  co-opted 
some  of  the  Oromo  groups  by  enlisting  them  into  his  army  and 
by  converting  them  to  Christianity.  He  came  gradually  to  rely 
almost  entirely  upon  Oromo  units  and  led  them  in  repeated  cam- 
paigns against  their  countrymen  who  had  not  yet  been  incorpo- 
rated into  the  Amhara-Tigray  state.  Successive  Gonder  kings, 
particularly  Iyasu  II  (reigned  1730-55),  likewise  relied  upon  Oro- 
mo military  units  to  help  counter  challenges  to  their  authority  from 


23 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

the  traditional  nobility  and  for  purposes  of  campaigning  in  far-flung 
Oromo  territory.  By  the  late  eighteenth  century,  the  Oromo  were 
playing  an  important  role  in  political  affairs  as  well.  At  times  dur- 
ing the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Oromo  was  the  primary 
language  at  court,  and  Oromo  leaders  came  to  number  among  the 
highest  nobility  of  the  kingdom. 

During  the  reign  of  Iyoas  (reigned  1755-69),  son  of  Iyasu  II, 
the  most  important  political  figure  was  Ras  Mikael  Sehul,  a  good 
example  of  a  great  noble  who  made  himself  the  power  behind  the 
throne.  Mikael' s  base  was  the  province  of  Tigray,  which  by  now 
enjoyed  a  large  measure  of  autonomy  and  from  which  Mikael  raised 
up  large  armies  with  which  he  dominated  the  Gonder  scene.  In 
1769  he  demonstrated  his  power  by  ordering  the  murder  of  two 
kings  (Iyoas  and  Yohannis  II)  and  by  placing  on  the  throne  Tekla 
Haimanot  II  (son  of  Yohannis  II),  a  weak  ruler  who  did  Mikael' s 
bidding.  Mikael  continued  in  command  until  the  early  1770s,  when 
a  coalition  of  his  opponents  compelled  him  to  retire  to  Tigray,  where 
he  eventually  died  of  old  age. 

Mikael' s  brazen  murder  of  two  kings  and  his  undisguised  role 
as  kingmaker  in  Gonder  signaled  the  beginning  of  what  Ethiopians 
have  long  termed  the  Zemene  Mesafmt  (Era  of  the  Princes),  a  time 
when  Gonder  kings  were  reduced  to  ceremonial  figureheads  while 
their  military  functions  and  real  power  lay  with  powerful  nobles. 
During  this  time,  traditionally  dating  from  1769  to  1855,  the  king- 
dom no  longer  existed  as  a  united  entity  capable  of  concerted  po- 
litical and  military  activity.  Various  principalities  were  ruled  by 
autonomous  nobles,  and  warfare  was  constant. 

The  five-volume  work  Travels  to  Discover  the  Source  of  the  Nile  by 
James  Bruce,  the  Scottish  traveler  who  lived  in  Ethiopia  from  1769 
to  1772,  describes  some  of  the  bloody  conflicts  and  personal  rival- 
ries that  consumed  the  kingdom.  During  the  most  confused  pe- 
riod, around  1800,  there  were  as  many  as  six  rival  emperors. 
Provincial  warlords  were  masters  of  the  territories  they  controlled 
but  were  subject  to  raids  from  other  provinces.  Peasants  often  left 
the  land  to  become  soldiers  or  brigands.  In  this  period,  too,  Oromo 
nobles,  often  nominally  Christian  and  in  a  few  cases  Muslim,  were 
among  those  who  struggled  for  hegemony  over  the  highlands.  The 
church,  still  riven  by  theological  controversy,  contributed  to  the 
disunity  that  was  the  hallmark  of  the  Zemene  Mesafint. 

The  Making  of  Modern  Ethiopia 

After  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  the  different  regions  of  the 
Gonder  state  were  gradually  reintegrated  to  form  the  nucleus  of 
a  modern  state  by  strong  monarchs  such  as  Tewodros  II,  Yohannis 


24 


Seventeenth-century  painting  depicting  St.  George  and  the  dragon, 
in  the  church  of  Debre  Birhan  Selassie  in  Gonder 
Courtesy  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural 

Organization  (R.  Garraud) 

IV,  and  Menelik  II,  who  resisted  the  gradual  expansion  of  Euro- 
pean control  in  the  Red  Sea  area  and  at  the  same  time  staved  off 
a  number  of  other  challenges  to  the  integrity  of  the  reunited  king- 
dom. 

The  Reestablishment  of  the  Ethiopian  Monarchy 

At  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Gonder  state 
consisted  of  the  northern  and  central  highlands  and  the  lower  ele- 
vations immediately  adjacent  to  them.  This  area  was  only  nomi- 
nally a  monarchy,  as  rival  nobles  fought  for  the  military  title  of 
ras  (roughly,  marshal;  literally,  head  in  Amharic)  or  the  highest 
of  all  nonroyal  titles,  ras-bitwoded,  that  combined  supreme  military 
command  with  the  duties  of  first  minister  at  court.  These  nobles 
often  were  able  to  enthrone  and  depose  princes  who  carried  the 
empty  title  of  negusa  nagast. 

The  major  peoples  who  made  up  the  Ethiopian  state  were  the 
Amhara  and  the  Tigray,  both  Semitic  speakers,  and  Cushitic- 
speaking  peoples  such  as  the  Oromo  and  the  Agew,  many  of  whom 
were  Christian  by  the  early  1800s.  In  some  cases,  their  conversion 
had  been  accompanied  by  their  assimilation  into  Amhara  culture 


25 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

or,  less  often,  Tigray  culture;  in  other  cases,  they  had  become  Chris- 
tian but  had  retained  their  languages.  The  state's  largest  ethnic 
group  was  the  Oromo,  but  the  Oromo  were  neither  politically  nor 
culturally  unified.  Some  were  Christian,  spoke  Amharic,  and  had 
intermarried  with  the  Amhara.  Other  Christian  Oromo  retained 
their  language,  although  their  modes  of  life  and  social  structure 
had  changed  extensively  from  those  of  their  pastoral  kin.  At  the 
eastern  edge  of  the  highlands,  many  had  converted  to  Islam,  espe- 
cially in  the  area  of  the  former  sultanates  of  Ifat  and  Adal.  The 
Oromo  people,  whether  or  not  Christian  and  Amhara  in  culture, 
played  important  political  roles  in  the  Zemene  Mesafint — often  as 
allies  of  Amhara  aspirants  to  power  but  sometimes  as  rases  and  king- 
makers in  their  own  right. 

Meanwhile,  to  the  south  of  the  kingdom,  segments  of  the  Oromo 
population — cultivators  and  suppliers  of  goods  exportable  to  the 
Red  Sea  coast  and  beyond — had  developed  kingdoms  of  their  own, 
no  doubt  stimulated  in  part  by  the  examples  of  the  Amhara  to  the 
north  and  the  Sidama  kingdoms  to  the  south.  The  seventeenth 
through  nineteenth  century  was  a  period  not  only  of  migration  but 
also  of  integration,  as  groups  borrowed  usable  techniques  and  in- 
stitutions from  each  other.  In  the  south,  too,  Islam  had  made  sub- 
stantial inroads.  Many  Oromo  chieftains  found  Islam  a  useful  tool 
in  the  process  of  centralization  as  well  as  in  the  building  of  trade 
networks. 

By  the  second  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century,  external  fac- 
tors once  more  affected  the  highlands  and  adjacent  areas,  at  least 
in  part  because  trade  among  the  Red  Sea  states  was  being  revived. 
Egypt  made  incursions  along  the  coast  and  sought  at  various  times 
to  control  the  Red  Sea  ports.  Europeans,  chiefly  British  and  French, 
showed  interest  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  The  competition  for  trade, 
differences  over  how  to  respond  to  Egypt's  activities,  and  the  readier 
availability  of  modern  arms  were  important  factors  in  the  conflicts 
of  the  period. 

In  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  a  major  figure  in  Gonder  was 
Kasa  Haylu,  son  of  a  lesser  noble  from  Qwara,  a  district  on  the 
border  with  Sudan.  Beginning  about  1840,  Kasa  alternated  between 
life  as  a  brigand  and  life  as  a  soldier  of  fortune  for  various  nobles, 
including  Ras  Ali,  a  Christian  of  Oromo  origin  who  dominated 
the  court  in  Gonder.  Kasa  became  sufficiently  effective  as  an  army 
commander  to  be  offered  the  governorship  of  a  minor  province. 
He  also  married  Ali's  daughter,  Tawabech.  Nonetheless,  Kasa 
eventually  rebelled  against  Ali,  occupied  Gonder  in  1847,  and  com- 
pelled Ali  to  recognize  him  as  chief  of  the  western  frontier  area. 
In  1848  he  attacked  the  Egyptians  in  Sudan;  however,  he  suffered 


26 


Historical  Setting 


a  crushing  defeat,  which  taught  him  to  respect  modern  firepower. 
Kasa  then  agreed  to  a  reconciliation  with  Ali,  whom  he  served  until 
1852,  when  he  again  revolted.  The  following  year,  he  defeated  Ali's 
army  and  burned  his  capital,  Debre  Tabor.  In  1854  he  assumed 
the  title  negus  (king),  and  in  February  1855  the  head  of  the  church 
crowned  him  Tewodros  II. 

From  Tewodros  II  to  Menelik  II,  1855-89 

Tewodros  II' s  origins  were  in  the  Era  of  the  Princes,  but  his  am- 
bitions were  not  those  of  the  regional  nobility.  He  sought  to  reestab- 
lish a  cohesive  Ethiopian  state  and  to  reform  its  administration  and 
church.  He  did  not  initially  claim  Solomonic  lineage  but  did  seek 
to  restore  Solomonic  hegemony,  and  he  considered  himself  the 
"Elect  of  God."  Later  in  his  reign,  suspecting  that  foreigners  con- 
sidered him  an  upstart  and  seeking  to  legitimize  his  reign,  he  added 
"son  of  David  and  Solomon"  to  his  title. 

Tewodros' s  first  task  was  to  bring  Shewa  under  his  control.  Dur- 
ing the  Era  of  the  Princes,  Shewa  was,  even  more  than  most 
provinces,  an  independent  entity,  its  ruler  even  styling  himself  negus. 
In  the  course  of  subduing  the  Shewans,  Tewodros  imprisoned  a 
Shewan  prince,  Menelik,  who  would  later  become  emperor  him- 
self. Despite  his  success  against  Shewa,  Tewodros  faced  constant 
rebellions  in  other  provinces.  In  the  first  six  years  of  his  reign,  the 
new  ruler  managed  to  put  down  these  rebellions,  and  the  empire 
was  relatively  peaceful  from  about  1861  to  1863.  The  energy, 
wealth,  and  manpower  necessary  to  deal  with  regional  opposition, 
however,  limited  the  scope  of  Tewodros's  other  activities.  By  1865 
other  rebels  had  emerged,  including  Menelik,  who  had  escaped 
from  prison  and  returned  to  Shewa,  where  he  declared  himself  negus. 

In  addition  to  his  conflicts  with  rebels  and  rivals,  Tewodros  en- 
countered difficulties  with  the  European  powers.  Seeking  aid  from 
the  British  government  (he  proposed  a  joint  expedition  to  conquer 
Jerusalem),  he  became  unhappy  with  the  behavior  of  those  Britons 
whom  he  had  counted  on  to  advance  his  request,  and  he  took  them 
hostage.  In  1868,  as  a  British  expeditionary  force  sent  from  India 
to  secure  release  of  the  hostages  stormed  his  stronghold,  Tewodros 
committed  suicide. 

Tewodros  never  realized  his  dream  of  restoring  a  strong  monar- 
chy, although  he  took  some  important  initial  steps.  He  sought  to 
establish  the  principle  that  governors  and  judges  must  be  salaried 
appointees.  He  also  established  a  professional  standing  army,  rather 
than  depending  on  local  lords  to  provide  soldiers  for  his  expedi- 
tions. He  also  intended  to  reform  the  church,  believing  the  clergy 
to  be  ignorant  and  immoral,  but  he  was  confronted  by  strong 


27 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

opposition  when  he  tried  to  impose  a  tax  on  church  lands  to  help 
finance  government  activities.  His  confiscation  of  these  lands  gained 
him  enemies  in  the  church  and  little  support  elsewhere.  Essentially, 
Tewodros  was  a  talented  military  campaigner  but  a  poor  politician. 

The  kingdom  at  Tewodros 's  death  was  disorganized,  but  those 
contending  to  succeed  him  were  not  prepared  to  return  to  the 
Zemene  Mesafint  system.  One  of  them,  crowned  Tekla  Giorgis, 
took  over  the  central  part  of  the  highlands.  Another,  Kasa  Mercha, 
governor  of  Tigray,  declined  when  offered  the  title  of  ras  in  ex- 
change for  recognizing  Tekla  Giorgis.  The  third,  Menelik  of  Shewa, 
came  to  terms  with  Tekla  Giorgis  in  return  for  a  promise  to  respect 
Shewa's  independence.  Tekla  Giorgis,  however,  sought  to  bring 
Kasa  Mercha  under  his  rule  but  was  defeated  by  a  small  Tigrayan 
army  equipped  with  more  modern  weapons  than  those  possessed 
by  his  Gonder  forces.  In  1872  Kasa  Mercha  was  crowned  negusa 
nagast  in  a  ceremony  at  the  ancient  capital  of  Aksum,  taking  the 
throne  name  of  Yohannis  IV. 

Yohannis  was  unable  to  exercise  control  over  the  nearly  indepen- 
dent Shewans  until  six  years  later.  From  the  beginning  of  his  reign, 
he  was  confronted  with  the  growing  power  of  Menelik,  who  had 
proclaimed  himself  king  of  Shewa  and  traced  his  Solomonic  line- 
age to  Lebna  Dengel.  While  Yohannis  was  struggling  against  op- 
posing factions  in  the  north,  Menelik  consolidated  his  power  in 
Shewa  and  extended  his  rule  over  the  Oromo  to  the  south  and  west. 
He  garrisoned  Shewan  forces  among  the  Oromo  and  received 
military  and  financial  support  from  them.  Despite  the  acquisition 
of  European  firearms,  in  1878  Menelik  was  compelled  to  submit 
to  Yohannis  and  to  pay  tribute;  in  return,  Yohannis  recognized 
Menelik  as  negus  and  gave  him  a  free  hand  in  territories  to  the  south 
of  Shewa.  This  agreement,  although  only  a  truce  in  the  long-standing 
rivalry  between  Tigray  and  Shewa,  was  important  to  Yohannis, 
who  was  preoccupied  with  foreign  enemies  and  pressures.  In  many 
of  Yohannis 's  external  struggles,  Menelik  maintained  separate 
relations  with  the  emperor's  enemies  and  continued  to  consoli- 
date Shewan  authority  in  order  to  strengthen  his  own  position.  In 
a  subsequent  agreement  designed  to  ensure  the  succession  in  the 
line  of  Yohannis,  one  of  Yohannis 's  younger  sons  was  married  to 
Zawditu,  Menelik' s  daughter. 

In  1875  Yohannis  had  to  meet  attacks  from  Egyptian  forces  on 
three  fronts.  The  khedive  in  Egypt  envisioned  a  "Greater  Egypt" 
that  would  encompass  Ethiopia.  In  pursuit  of  this  goal,  an  Egyp- 
tian force  moved  inland  from  present-day  Djibouti  but  was  anni- 
hilated by  Afar  tribesmen.  Other  Egyptian  forces  occupied  Harer, 
where  they  remained  for  nearly  ten  years,  long  after  the  Egyptian 


28 


Historical  Setting 


cause  had  been  lost.  Tigrayan  warriors  defeated  a  more  ambitious 
attack  launched  from  the  coastal  city  of  Mitsiwa  in  which  the  Egyp- 
tian forces  were  almost  completely  destroyed.  A  fourth  Egyptian 
army  was  decisively  defeated  in  1876  southwest  of  Mitsiwa. 

Italy  was  the  next  source  of  danger.  The  Italian  government  took 
over  the  port  of  Aseb  in  1882  from  the  Rubattino  Shipping  Com- 
pany, which  had  purchased  it  from  a  local  ruler  some  years  be- 
fore. Italy's  main  interest  was  not  the  port  but  the  eventual 
colonization  of  Ethiopia.  In  the  process,  the  Italians  entered  into 
a  long-term  relationship  with  Menelik.  The  main  Italian  drive  was 
begun  in  1885  from  Mitsiwa,  which  Italy  had  occupied.  From  this 
port,  the  Italians  began  to  penetrate  the  hinterland,  with  British 
encouragement.  In  1887,  after  the  Italians  were  soundly  defeated 
at  Dogali  by  Ras  Alula,  the  governor  of  northeastern  Tigray,  they 
sent  a  stronger  force  into  the  area. 

Yohannis  was  unable  to  attend  to  the  Italian  threat  because  of 
difficulties  to  the  west  in  Gonder  and  Gojam.  In  1887  Sudanese 
Muslims,  known  as  Mahdists,  made  incursions  into  Gojam  and 
Begemdir  and  laid  waste  parts  of  those  provinces.  In  1889  the  em- 
peror met  these  forces  in  the  Battle  of  Metema  on  the  Sudanese 
border.  Although  the  invaders  were  defeated,  Yohannis  himself 
was  fatally  wounded,  and  the  Ethiopian  forces  disintegrated.  Just 
before  his  death,  Yohannis  designated  one  of  his  sons,  Ras 
Mengesha  Yohannis  of  Tigray,  as  his  successor,  but  this  gesture 
proved  futile,  as  Menelik  successfully  claimed  the  throne  in  1889. 

The  Shewan  ruler  became  the  dominant  personality  in  Ethio- 
pia and  was  recognized  as  Emperor  Menelik  II  by  all  but  Yohannis 's 
son  and  Ras  Alula.  During  the  temporary  period  of  confusion  fol- 
lowing Yohannis 's  death,  the  Italians  were  able  to  advance  far- 
ther into  the  hinterland  from  Mitsiwa  and  establish  a  foothold  in 
the  highlands,  from  which  Menelik  was  unable  to  dislodge  them. 
From  1889  until  after  World  War  II,  Ethiopia  was  deprived  of  its 
maritime  frontier  and  was  forced  to  accept  the  presence  of  an  am- 
bitious European  power  on  its  borders. 

The  Reign  of  Menelik  II,  1889-1913 

By  1900  Menelik  had  succeeded  in  establishing  control  over  much 
of  present-day  Ethiopia  and  had,  in  part  at  least,  gained  recogni- 
tion from  the  European  colonial  powers  of  the  boundaries  of  his 
empire.  Although  in  many  respects  a  traditionalist,  he  introduced 
several  significant  changes.  His  decision  in  the  late  1880s  to  locate 
the  royal  encampment  at  Addis  Ababa  ("New  Flower")  in  southern 
Shewa  led  to  the  gradual  rise  of  a  genuine  urban  center  and  a  per- 
manent capital  in  the  1890s,  a  development  that  facilitated  the  in- 
troduction of  new  ideas  and  technology.  The  capital's  location 


29 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


not  necessarity  authoritative 


ANGLO-EGYPTIAN 
SUDAN 

(Egypt,  1820-84; 
Mahdists,  1884-99;  I 
Anglo-Egyptian  j 
condominium.  1899) 


  Present-day  inter- 
national boundary 

 Present-day  admini- 
strative line 


UGANDA 

(Britain,  1894) 


BRITISH  EAST  AFRICA 

(Britain,  1895) 


Indian 
Ocean 


Figure  4.  Colonization  of  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  Southwest  Arabia,  1820- 
ca.  1900 


symbolized  the  empire's  southern  reorientation,  a  move  that  fur- 
ther irritated  Menelik's  Tigrayan  opponents  and  some  Amhara  of  the 
more  northerly  provinces  who  resented  Shewan  hegemony.  Menelik 
also  authorized  a  French  company  to  build  a  railroad,  not  complet- 
ed until  1917,  that  eventually  would  link  Addis  Ababa  and  Djibouti. 

Menelik  embarked  on  a  program  of  military  conquest  that  more 
than  doubled  the  size  of  his  domain  (see  fig.  4).  Enjoying  superior  fire 


30 


Historical  Setting 


power,  his  forces  overran  the  Kembata  and  Welamo  regions  in  the 
southern  highlands.  Also  subdued  were  the  Kefa  and  other  Oromo- 
and  Omotic-speaking  peoples. 

Expanding  south,  Menelik  introduced  a  system  of  land  rights 
considerably  modified  from  that  prevailing  in  the  Amhara-Tigray 
highlands.  These  changes  had  significant  implications  for  the  or- 
dinary cultivator  in  the  south  and  ultimately  were  to  generate  quite 
different  responses  there  to  the  land  reform  programs  that  would 
follow  the  revolution  of  1974  (see  The  Struggle  for  Power,  1974-77, 
this  ch.).  In  the  central  and  northern  highlands,  despite  regional 
variations,  most  peasants  had  substantial  inheritable  (broadly, 
rist — see  Glossary)  rights  in  land.  In  addition  to  holding  rights  of 
this  kind,  the  nobility  held  or  were  assigned  certain  economic  rights 
in  the  land,  called  gult  (see  Glossary)  rights,  which  entitled  them 
to  a  portion  of  the  produce  of  the  land  in  which  others  held  rist 
rights  and  to  certain  services  from  the  rist  holders.  The  Ethiopian 
Orthodox  Church  also  held  land  of  its  own  and  gult  rights  in  land 
to  which  peasants  held  rist  rights.  In  the  south,  all  land  theoreti- 
cally belonged  to  the  emperor.  He  in  turn  allocated  land  rights  to 
those  he  appointed  to  office  and  to  his  soldiers.  The  rights  allo- 
cated by  the  king  were  more  extensive  than  the  gult  rights  prevail- 
ing in  the  north  and  left  most  of  the  indigenous  peoples  as  tenants, 
with  far  fewer  rights  than  Amhara  and  Tigray  peasants.  Thus,  the 
new  landowners  in  the  south  were  aliens  and  remained  largely  so. 

At  the  same  time  that  Menelik  was  extending  his  empire,  Euro- 
pean colonial  powers  were  showing  an  interest  in  the  territories 
surrounding  Ethiopia.  Menelik  considered  the  Italians  a  formida- 
ble challenge  and  negotiated  the  Treaty  of  Wuchale  with  them  in 
1889  (see  Diplomacy  and  State  Building  in  Imperial  Ethiopia, 
ch.  4).  Among  its  terms  were  those  permitting  the  Italians  to  es- 
tablish their  first  toehold  on  the  edge  of  the  northern  highlands  and 
from  which  they  subsequently  sought  to  expand  into  Tigray.  Dis- 
agreements over  the  contents  of  the  treaty  eventually  induced 
Menelik  to  renounce  it  and  repay  in  full  a  loan  Italy  had  granted 
as  a  condition.  Thereafter,  relations  with  Italy  were  further  strained 
as  a  result  of  the  establishment  of  Eritrea  as  a  colony  and  Italy's 
penetration  of  the  Somali  territories. 

Italian  ambitions  were  encouraged  by  British  actions  in  1891, 
when,  hoping  to  stabilize  the  region  in  the  face  of  the  Mahdist  threat 
in  Sudan,  Britain  agreed  with  the  Italian  government  that  Ethio- 
pia should  fall  within  the  Italian  sphere  of  influence.  France, 
however,  encouraged  Menelik  to  oppose  the  Italian  threat  by 
delineating  the  projected  boundaries  of  his  empire.  Anxious  to  ad- 
vance French  economic  interests  through  the  construction  of  a 


31 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

railroad  from  Addis  Ababa  to  the  city  of  Djibouti  in  French 
Somaliland,  France  accordingly  reduced  the  size  of  its  territorial 
claims  there  and  recognized  Ethiopian  sovereignty  in  the  area. 

Italian-Ethiopian  relations  reached  a  low  point  in  1895,  when 
Ras  Mengesha  of  Tigray,  hitherto  reluctant  to  recognize  the  Shewan 
emperor's  claims,  was  threatened  by  the  Italians  and  asked  for  the 
support  of  Menelik.  In  late  1895,  Italian  forces  invaded  Tigray. 
However,  Menelik  completely  routed  them  in  early  1896  as  they 
approached  the  Tigrayan  capital,  Adwa.  This  victory  brought 
Ethiopia  new  prestige  as  well  as  general  recognition  of  its  sover- 
eign status  by  the  European  powers.  Besides  confirming  the  an- 
nulment of  the  Treaty  of  Wuchale,  the  peace  agreement  ending 
the  conflict  also  entailed  Italian  recognition  of  Ethiopian  indepen- 
dence; in  return,  Menelik  permitted  the  Italians  to  retain  their  col- 
ony of  Eritrea. 

In  addition  to  attempts  on  the  part  of  Britain,  France,  and  Italy 
to  gain  influence  within  the  empire,  Menelik  was  troubled  by  in- 
trigues originating  in  Russia,  Germany,  and  the  Ottoman  Empire. 
But,  showing  a  great  capacity  to  play  one  power  off  against  another, 
the  emperor  was  able  to  avoid  making  any  substantial  concessions. 
Moreover,  while  pursuing  his  own  territorial  designs,  Menelik 
joined  with  France  in  1898  to  penetrate  Sudan  at  Fashoda  and  then 
cooperated  with  British  forces  in  British  Somaliland  between  1900 
and  1904  to  put  down  a  rebellion  in  the  Ogaden  by  Somali  leader 
Muhammad  Abdullah  Hassan.  By  1908  the  colonial  powers  had 
recognized  Ethiopia's  borders  except  for  those  with  Italian  Somali- 
land. 

After  Menelik  suffered  a  disabling  stroke  in  May  1906,  his  per- 
sonal control  over  the  empire  weakened.  Apparently  responding 
to  that  weakness  and  seeking  to  avoid  an  outbreak  of  conflict  in 
the  area,  Britain,  France,  and  Italy  signed  the  Tripartite  Treaty, 
which  declared  that  the  common  purpose  of  the  three  powers  was 
to  maintain  the  political  status  quo  and  to  respect  each  other's  in- 
terests. Britain's  interest,  it  was  recognized,  lay  around  Lake  Tana 
and  the  headwaters  of  the  Abay  (Blue  Nile).  Italy's  chief  interest 
was  in  linking  Eritrea  with  Italian  Somaliland.  France's  interest 
was  the  territory  to  be  traversed  by  the  railroad  from  Addis  Ababa 
to  Djibouti  in  French  Somaliland. 

Apparently  recognizing  that  his  political  strength  was  ebbing, 
Menelik  established  a  Council  of  Ministers  in  late  1907  to  assist 
in  the  management  of  state  affairs.  The  foremost  aspirants  to  the 
throne,  Ras  Mekonnen  and  Ras  Mengesha,  had  died  in  1906.  In 
June  1908,  the  emperor  designated  his  thirteen-year-old  nephew, 


32 


Historical  Setting 


Lij  Iyasu,  son  of  Ras  Mikael  of  Welo,  as  his  successor.  After  suf- 
fering another  stroke  in  late  1908,  the  emperor  appointed  Ras 
Tessema  as  regent.  These  developments  ushered  in  a  decade  of 
political  uncertainty.  The  great  nobles,  some  with  foreign  finan- 
cial support,  engaged  in  intrigues  anticipating  a  time  of  troubles 
as  well  as  of  opportunity  upon  Menelik's  death. 

Empress  Taytu,  who  had  borne  no  children,  was  heavily  involved 
in  court  politics  on  behalf  of  her  kin  and  friends,  most  of  whom 
lived  in  the  northern  provinces  and  included  persons  who  either 
had  claims  of  their  own  to  the  throne  or  were  resentful  of  Shewan 
hegemony.  However,  by  1910  her  efforts  had  been  thwarted  by 
the  Shewan  nobles;  thereafter,  the  empress  withdrew  from  politi- 
cal activity. 

The  Interregnum 

The  two  years  of  Menelik's  reign  that  followed  the  death  of  Ras 
Tessema  in  1 9 1 1  found  real  power  in  the  hands  of  Ras  (later  Negus) 
Mikael  of  Welo,  an  Oromo  and  former  Muslim,  who  had  con- 
verted to  Christianity  under  duress.  Mikael  could  muster  an  army 
of  80,000  in  his  predominantly  Muslim  province  and  commanded 
the  allegiance  of  Oromo  outside  it.  In  December  1913,  Menelik 
died,  but  fear  of  civil  war  induced  the  court  to  keep  his  death  secret 
for  some  time.  Although  recognized  as  emperor,  Menelik's  nephew, 
Lij  Iyasu,  was  not  formally  crowned.  The  old  nobility  quickly  at- 
tempted to  reassert  its  power,  which  Menelik  had  undercut,  and 
united  against  Lij  Iyasu.  At  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I,  en- 
couraged by  his  father  and  by  German  and  Turkish  diplomats,  Lij 
Iyasu  adopted  the  Islamic  faith.  Seeking  to  revive  Muslim-Oromo 
predominance,  Lij  Iyasu  placed  the  eastern  half  of  Ethiopia  under 
Ras  Mikael' s  control,  officially  placed  his  country  in  religious  de- 
pendence on  the  Ottoman  sultan-caliph,  and  established  cordial 
relations  with  Somali  leader  Muhammad  Abdullah  Hassan. 

The  Shewan  nobility  immediately  secured  a  proclamation  from 
the  head  of  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church  excommunicating  Lij 
Iyasu  and  deposing  him  as  emperor.  Menelik's  daughter,  Zawditu, 
was  declared  empress.  Tafari  Mekonnen,  the  son  of  Ras  Mekonnen 
of  Harer  (who  was  a  descendant  of  a  Shewan  negus  and  a  supporter 
of  the  nobles),  was  declared  regent  and  heir  to  the  throne  and  given 
the  title  of  ras.  By  virtue  of  the  power  and  prestige  he  derived  from 
his  achievements  as  one  of  Menelik's  generals,  Habte  Giorgis,  the 
minister  of  war  and  a  traditionalist,  continued  to  play  a  major  role 
in  government  affairs  until  his  death  in  1926.  Although  Lij  Iyasu 
was  captured  in  a  brief  military  campaign  in  1921  and  imprisoned 
until  his  death  in  1936,  his  father,  Negus  Mikael,  continued  for 


33 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

some  time  to  pose  a  serious  challenge  to  the  government  in  Addis 
Ababa.  The  death  of  Habte  Giorgis  in  1926  left  Tafari  in  effective 
control  of  the  government.  In  1928  he  was  crowned  negus.  When 
the  empress  died  in  1930,  Tafari  succeeded  to  the  throne  without 
contest.  Seventeen  years  after  the  death  of  Menelik,  the  succes- 
sion struggle  thus  ended  in  favor  of  Tafari. 

Well  before  his  crowning  as  negus,  Tafari  began  to  introduce  a 
degree  of  modernization  into  Ethiopia.  As  early  as  1920,  he  or- 
dered administrative  regulations  and  legal  code  books  from  vari- 
ous European  countries  to  provide  models  for  his  newly  created 
bureaucracy.  Ministers  were  also  appointed  to  advise  the  regent 
and  were  given  official  accommodations  in  the  capital.  To  ensure 
the  growth  of  a  class  of  educated  young  men  who  might  be  useful 
in  introducing  reforms  in  the  years  ahead,  Tafari  promoted  govern- 
ment schooling.  He  enlarged  the  school  Menelik  had  established 
for  the  sons  of  nobles  and  founded  Tafari  Mekonnen  Elementary 
School  in  1925.  In  addition,  he  took  steps  to  improve  health  and 
social  services. 

Tafari  also  acted  to  extend  his  power  base  and  to  secure  allies 
abroad.  In  1919,  after  efforts  to  gain  membership  in  the  League 
of  Nations  were  blocked  because  of  the  existence  of  slavery  in  Ethio- 
pia, he  (and  Empress  Zawditu)  complied  with  the  norms  of  the 
international  community  by  banning  the  slave  trade  in  1923.  That 
same  year,  Ethiopia  was  unanimously  voted  membership  in  the 
League  of  Nations.  Continuing  to  seek  international  approval  of 
the  country's  internal  conditions,  the  government  enacted  laws  in 
1924  that  provided  for  the  gradual  emancipation  of  slaves  and  their 
offspring  and  created  a  government  bureau  to  oversee  the  process. 
The  exact  degree  of  servitude  was  difficult  to  determine,  however, 
as  the  majority  of  slaves  worked  in  households  and  were  considered, 
at  least  among  Amhara  and  Tigray,  to  be  second-class  family 
members. 

Ethiopia  signed  a  twenty-year  treaty  of  friendship  with  Italy  in 
1928,  providing  for  an  Ethiopian  free-trade  zone  at  Aseb  in  Eritrea 
and  the  construction  of  a  road  from  the  port  to  Dese  in  Welo.  A 
joint  company  controlled  road  traffic.  Contact  with  the  outside  world 
expanded  further  when  the  emperor  engaged  a  Belgian  military 
mission  in  1929  to  train  the  royal  bodyguards  (see  Training,  ch.  5). 
In  1930  negotiations  started  between  Ethiopia  and  various  inter- 
national banking  institutions  for  the  establishment  of  the  Bank  of 
Ethiopia.  In  the  same  year,  Tafari  signed  the  Arms  Traffic  Act 
with  Britain,  France,  and  Italy,  by  which  unauthorized  persons 
were  denied  the  right  to  import  arms.  The  act  also  recognized  the 


34 


Historical  Setting 


government's  right  to  procure  arms  against  external  aggression  and 
to  maintain  internal  order. 

Haile  Selassie:  The  Prewar  Period,  1930-36 

Although  Empress  Zawditu  died  in  April  1930,  it  was  not  until 
November  that  Negus  Tafari  was  crowned  Haile  Selassie  I,  "Con- 
quering Lion  of  the  Tribe  of  Judah,  Elect  of  God,  and  King  of 
Kings  of  Ethiopia."  As  emperor,  Haile  Selassie  continued  to  push 
reforms  aimed  at  modernizing  the  country  and  breaking  the  no- 
bility's authority.  Henceforth,  the  great  rases  were  forced  either  to 
obey  the  emperor  or  to  engage  in  treasonable  opposition  to  him. 

In  July  1931,  the  emperor  granted  a  constitution  that  asserted 
his  own  status,  reserved  imperial  succession  to  the  line  of  Haile 
Selassie,  and  declared  that  "the  person  of  the  Emperor  is  sacred, 
his  dignity  inviolable,  and  his  power  indisputable."  All  power  over 
central  and  local  government,  the  legislature,  the  judiciary,  and 
the  military  remained  with  the  emperor.  The  constitution  was  es- 
sentially an  effort  to  provide  a  legal  basis  for  replacing  the  tradi- 
tional provincial  rulers  with  appointees  loyal  to  the  emperor. 

The  new  strength  of  the  imperial  government  was  demonstrated 
in  1932  when  a  revolt  led  by  Ras  Hailu  Balaw  of  Gojam  in  sup- 
port of  Lij  Iyasu  was  quickly  suppressed  and  a  new  nontraditional 
governor  put  in  Hailu 's  place.  By  1934  reliable  provincial  rulers 
had  been  established  throughout  the  traditional  Amhara  territo- 
ries of  Shewa,  Gojam,  and  Begemdir,  as  well  as  in  Kefa  and 
Sidamo — well  outside  the  core  Amhara  area.  The  only  traditional 
leader  capable  of  overtly  challenging  central  rule  at  this  point  was 
the  ras  of  Tigray.  Other  peoples,  although  in  no  position  to  con- 
front the  emperor,  remained  almost  entirely  outside  the  control 
of  the  imperial  government. 

Although  Haile  Selassie  placed  administrators  of  his  own  choosing 
wherever  he  could  and  thus  sought  to  limit  the  power  of  the  rases 
and  other  nobles  with  regional  power  bases,  he  did  not  directly 
attack  the  systems  of  land  tenure  that  were  linked  to  the  traditional 
political  order.  Abolition  of  the  pattern  of  gult  rights  in  the  Amhara- 
Tigray  highlands  and  the  system  of  land  allocation  in  the  south 
would  have  amounted  to  a  social  and  economic  revolution  that  Haile 
Selassie  was  not  prepared  to  undertake. 

The  emperor  took  nonmilitary  measures  to  promote  loyalty  to 
the  throne  and  to  the  state.  He  established  new  elementary  and 
secondary  schools  in  Addis  Ababa,  and  some  150  university-age 
students  studied  abroad.  The  government  enacted  a  penal  code 
in  1930,  imported  printing  presses  to  provide  nationally  oriented 
newspapers,  increased  the  availability  of  electricity  and  telephone 


35 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

services,  and  promoted  public  health.  The  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  founded 
in  1931,  commenced  issuing  Ethiopian  currency. 

Italian  Rule  and  World  War  II 

Italian  Administration  in  Eritrea 

A  latecomer  to  the  scramble  for  colonies  in  Africa,  Italy  estab- 
lished itself  first  in  Eritrea  (its  name  was  derived  from  the  Latin 
term  for  the  Red  Sea,  Mare  Erythreum)  in  the  1880s  and  secured 
Ethiopian  recognition  of  its  claim  in  1889.  Despite  its  failure  to  pene- 
trate Tigray  in  1896,  Italy  retained  control  over  Eritrea.  A  succes- 
sion of  Italian  chief  administrators,  or  governors,  maintained  a 
degree  of  unity  and  public  order  in  a  region  marked  by  cultural, 
linguistic,  and  religious  diversity.  Eritrea  also  experienced  material 
progress  in  many  areas  before  Ethiopia  proper  did  so. 

One  of  the  most  important  developments  during  the  post- 1889 
period  was  the  growth  of  an  Eritrean  public  administration.  The 
Italians  employed  many  Eritreans  to  work  in  public  service — 
particularly  the  police  and  public  works — and  fostered  loyalty  by 
granting  Eritreans  emoluments  and  status  symbols.  The  local  popu- 
lation shared  in  the  benefits  conferred  under  Italian  colonial  ad- 
ministration, especially  through  newly  created  medical  services, 
agricultural  improvements,  and  the  provision  of  urban  amenities 
in  Asmera  and  Mitsiwa. 

After  Benito  Mussolini  assumed  power  in  Italy  in  1922,  the 
colonial  government  in  Eritrea  changed.  The  new  administration 
stressed  the  racial  and  political  superiority  of  Italians,  authorized 
segregation,  and  relegated  the  local  people  to  the  lowest  level  of 
public  employment.  At  the  same  time,  Rome  implemented  agricul- 
tural improvements  and  established  a  basis  for  commercial  agricul- 
ture on  farms  run  by  Italian  colonists. 

State  control  of  the  economic  sphere  was  matched  by  tighter  po- 
litical control.  Attempts  at  improving  the  management  of  the  colony, 
however,  did  not  transform  it  into  a  self-sufficient  entity.  The  colo- 
ny's most  important  function  was  to  serve  as  a  strategic  base  for 
future  aggrandizement. 

Mussolini's  Invasion  and  the  Italian  Occupation 

As  late  as  September  29,  1934,  Rome  affirmed  its  1928  treaty 
of  friendship  with  Ethiopia.  Nonetheless,  it  became  clear  that  Italy 
wished  to  expand  and  link  its  holdings  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  (see 
fig.  5).  Moreover,  the  international  climate  of  the  mid- 1930s  pro- 
vided Italy  with  the  expectation  that  aggression  could  be  undertaken 
with  impunity.  Determined  to  provoke  a  casus  belli,  the  Mussolini 


36 


Historical  Setting 


regime  began  deliberately  exploiting  the  minor  provocations  that 
arose  in  its  relations  with  Ethiopia. 

In  December  1934,  an  incident  took  place  at  Welwel  in  the 
Ogaden,  a  site  of  wells  used  by  Somali  nomads  regularly  travers- 
ing the  borders  between  Ethiopia  and  British  Somaliland  and  Italian 
Somaliland.  The  Italians  had  built  fortified  positions  in  Welwel 
in  1930  and,  because  there  had  been  no  protests,  assumed  that  the 
international  community  had  recognized  their  rights  over  this  area. 
However,  an  Anglo-Ethiopian  boundary  commission  challenged 
the  Italian  position  when  it  visited  Welwel  in  late  November  1934 
on  its  way  to  set  territorial  boundary  markers.  On  encountering 
Italian  belligerence,  the  commission's  members  withdrew  but  left 
behind  their  Ethiopian  military  escort,  which  eventually  fought  a 
battle  with  Italian  units. 

In  September  1935,  the  League  of  Nations  exonerated  both  par- 
ties in  the  Welwel  incident.  The  long  delay  and  the  intricate  Brit- 
ish and  French  maneuverings  persuaded  Mussolini  that  no  obstacle 
would  be  placed  in  his  path.  An  Anglo-French  proposal  in  August 
1935 — just  before  the  League  of  Nations  ruling — that  the  signato- 
ries to  the  1906  Tripartite  Treaty  collaborate  for  the  purpose  of 
assisting  in  the  modernization  and  reorganization  of  Ethiopian  in- 
ternal affairs,  subject  to  the  consent  of  Ethiopia,  was  flatly  rejected 
by  the  Italians.  On  October  3,  1935,  Italy  attacked  Ethiopia  from 
Eritrea  and  Italian  Somaliland  without  a  declaration  of  war.  On 
October  7,  the  League  of  Nations  unanimously  declared  Italy  an 
aggressor  but  took  no  effective  action. 

In  a  war  that  lasted  seven  months,  Ethiopia  was  outmatched  by 
Italy  in  armaments — a  situation  exacerbated  by  the  fact  that  a 
League  of  Nations  arms  embargo  was  not  enforced  against  Italy. 
Despite  a  valiant  defense,  the  next  six  months  saw  the  Ethiopians 
pushed  back  on  the  northern  front  and  in  Harerge.  Acting  on  long- 
standing grievances,  a  segment  of  the  Tigray  forces  defected,  as 
did  Oromo  forces  in  some  areas.  Moreover,  the  Italians  made 
widespread  use  of  chemical  weapons  and  air  power.  On  March 
31,  1936,  the  Ethiopians  counterattacked  the  main  Italian  force 
at  May  chew  but  were  defeated.  By  early  April  1936,  Italian  forces 
had  reached  Dese  in  the  north  and  Harer  in  the  east.  On  May  2, 
Haile  Selassie  left  for  French  Somaliland  and  exile — a  move  resented 
by  some  Ethiopians  who  were  accustomed  to  a  warrior  emperor. 
The  Italian  forces  entered  Addis  Ababa  on  May  5.  Four  days  later, 
Italy  announced  the  annexation  of  Ethiopia. 

On  June  30,  Haile  Selassie  made  a  powerful  speech  before  the 
League  of  Nations  in  Geneva  in  which  he  set  forth  two  choices — 
support  for  collective  security  or  international  lawlessness.  The 


37 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


A 


SAUDI  ARABIA 


}  Keren 

ERITREA 


ANGLO- 
EGYPTIAN  j 

SUDAN  \ 

(Britain  and  \ 

Egypt)       j  Maychew 


y'Gonder^ 


/ 


UGANDA 

(Britain)  ) 


La 
Tana 


9 


(Italy)  • 

■■^Asmera 


  International 

boundary 

 Administrative 

line 


Undefined 
boundary 

Populated  place 

75  150  Kilometers 


FRENCH  SOMALILAND 

Djibouti  (Franco) 


Addis 
Ababa  • 


Harer-  \ 


V 


BRITISH 
SOMALILAND 

(Britain) 


ETHIOPIA 


-  r-  ITALIAN 
/  SOMALILAND 


Indian 


(Italy) 


KENYA 

(Britain) 


Mogadishu  OCCOtl 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  5.  The  Horn  of  Africa  and  Southwest  Arabia,  Mid- 1930s 


emperor  stirred  the  conscience  of  many  and  was  thereafter  regarded 
as  a  major  international  figure.  Britain  and  France,  however,  soon 
recognized  Italy's  control  of  Ethiopia.  Among  the  major  powers, 
the  United  States  and  the  Soviet  Union  refused  to  do  so. 

In  early  June  1936,  Rome  promulgated  a  constitution  bringing 
Ethiopia,  Eritrea,  and  Italian  Somaliland  together  into  a  single  ad- 
ministrative unit  divided  into  six  provinces.  On  June  11,  1936, 
Marshal  Rodolfo  Graziani  replaced  Marshal  Pietro  Badoglio,  who 
had  commanded  the  Italian  forces  in  the  war.  In  December  the 
Italians  declared  the  whole  country  to  be  pacified  and  under  their 
effective  control.  Ethiopian  resistance  nevertheless  continued. 

After  a  failed  assassination  attempt  against  Graziani  on  Febru- 
ary 19,  1937,  the  colonial  authorities  executed  30,000  persons, 


38 


Historical  Setting 


including  about  half  of  the  younger,  educated  Ethiopian  popula- 
tion. This  harsh  policy,  however,  did  not  pacify  the  country.  In 
November  1937,  Rome  therefore  appointed  a  new  governor  and 
instructed  him  to  adopt  a  more  flexible  line.  Accordingly,  large- 
scale  public  works  projects  were  undertaken.  One  result  was  the 
construction  of  the  country's  first  system  of  improved  roads.  In 
the  meantime,  however,  the  Italians  had  decreed  miscegenation 
to  be  illegal.  Racial  separation,  including  residential  segregation, 
was  enforced  as  thoroughly  as  possible.  The  Italians  showed  favor- 
itism to  non-Christian  Oromo  (some  of  whom  had  supported  the 
invasion),  Somali,  and  other  Muslims  in  an  attempt  to  isolate  the 
Amhara,  who  supported  Haile  Selassie. 

Ethiopian  resistance  continued,  nonetheless.  Early  in  1938,  a 
revolt  broke  out  in  Gojam  led  by  the  Committee  of  Unity  and  Col- 
laboration, which  was  made  up  of  some  of  the  young,  educated 
elite  who  had  escaped  the  reprisal  after  the  attempt  on  Graziani's 
life.  In  exile  in  Britain,  the  emperor  sought  to  gain  the  support 
of  the  Western  democracies  for  his  cause  but  had  little  success  until 
Italy  entered  World  War  II  on  the  side  of  Germany  in  June  1940. 
Thereafter,  Britain  and  the  emperor  sought  to  cooperate  with  Ethio- 
pian and  other  indigenous  forces  in  a  campaign  to  dislodge  the 
Italians  from  Ethiopia  and  from  British  Somaliland,  which  the 
Italians  seized  in  August  1940,  and  to  resist  the  Italian  invasion 
of  Sudan.  Haile  Selassie  proceeded  immediately  to  Khartoum, 
where  he  established  closer  liaison  with  both  the  British  headquarters 
and  the  resistance  forces  within  Ethiopia. 

Ethiopia  in  World  War  II 

The  wresting  of  Ethiopia  from  the  occupying  Italian  forces  in- 
volved British  personnel,  composed  largely  of  South  African  and 
African  colonial  troops  penetrating  from  the  south,  west,  and  north, 
supported  by  Ethiopian  guerrillas.  It  was  the  task  of  an  Anglo- 
Ethiopian  mission,  eventually  commanded  by  Colonel  Orde  Win- 
gate,  to  coordinate  the  activities  of  the  Ethiopian  forces  in  support 
of  the  campaign.  The  emperor  arrived  in  Gojam  on  January  20, 
1941 ,  and  immediately  undertook  the  task  of  bringing  the  various 
local  resistance  groups  under  his  control. 

The  campaigns  of  1940  and  1941  were  based  on  a  British  strategy 
of  preventing  Italian  forces  from  attacking  or  occupying  neighboring 
British  possessions,  while  at  the  same  time  pressing  northward  from 
East  Africa  through  Italian  Somaliland  and  eastern  Ethiopia  to  iso- 
late Italian  troops  in  the  highlands.  This  thrust  was  directed  at  the 
Harer  and  Dire  Dawa  area,  with  the  objective  of  cutting  the  rail 
link  between  Addis  Ababa  and  Djibouti.  At  the  same  time,  British 


39 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

troops  from  Sudan  penetrated  Eritrea  to  cut  off  Italian  forces  from 
the  Red  Sea.  The  campaign  in  the  north  ended  in  February  and 
March  of  1941  with  the  Battle  of  Keren  and  the  defeat  of  Italian 
troops  in  Eritrea.  By  March  3,  Italian  Somaliland  had  fallen  to 
British  forces,  and  soon  after  the  Italian  governor  initiated  negoti- 
ations for  the  surrender  of  the  remaining  Italian  forces.  On  May  5, 
1941,  Haile  Selassie  reentered  Addis  Ababa,  but  it  was  not  until 
January  1942  that  the  last  of  the  Italians,  cut  off  near  Gonder,  sur- 
rendered to  British  and  Ethiopian  forces. 

During  the  war  years,  British  military  officials  left  responsibil- 
ity for  internal  affairs  in  the  emperor's  hands.  However,  it  was 
agreed  that  all  acts  relating  to  the  war  effort — domestic  or  inter- 
national— required  British  approval.  Without  defining  the  limits 
of  authority,  both  sides  also  agreed  that  the  emperor  would  issue 
"proclamations"  and  the  British  military  administration  would  issue 
"public  notices."  Without  consulting  the  British,  Haile  Selassie 
appointed  a  seven-member  cabinet  and  a  governor  of  Addis  Ababa, 
but  for  tactical  reasons  he  announced  that  they  would  serve  as  ad- 
visers to  the  British  military  administration. 

This  interim  Anglo-Ethiopian  arrangement  was  replaced  in  Janu- 
ary 1942  by  a  new  agreement  that  contained  a  military  conven- 
tion. The  convention  provided  for  British  assistance  in  the 
organization  of  a  new  Ethiopian  army  that  was  to  be  trained  by 
a  British  military  mission  (see  Military  Tradition  in  National  Life, 
ch.  5).  In  addition  to  attaching  officers  to  Ethiopian  army  battal- 
ions, the  British  assigned  advisers  to  most  ministries  and  to  some 
provincial  governors.  British  assistance  strengthened  the  emperor's 
efforts  to  substitute,  as  his  representatives  in  the  provinces,  ex- 
perienced administrators  for  the  traditional  nobility.  But  such  help 
was  rejected  whenever  proposed  reforms  threatened  to  weaken  the 
emperor's  personal  control. 

The  terms  of  the  agreement  confirmed  Ethiopia's  status  as  a 
sovereign  state.  However,  the  Ogaden  and  certain  strategic  areas, 
such  as  the  French  Somaliland  border,  the  Addis  Ababa-Djibouti 
railroad,  and  the  Haud  (collectively  termed  the  "Reserved  Areas"), 
remained  temporarily  under  British  administration.  Other  provi- 
sions set  forth  recruitment  procedures  for  additional  British  advisers 
should  they  be  requested.  About  the  same  time,  a  United  States 
economic  mission  arrived,  thereby  laying  the  groundwork  for  an 
alliance  that  in  time  would  significantly  affect  the  country's  di- 
rection. 

A  British-trained  national  police  administration  and  police  force 
gradually  took  the  place  of  the  police  who  had  served  earlier  in 
the  retinues  of  the  provincial  governors.  Opposition  to  these  changes 


40 


Italian  troops  march  past  billboard  of  Mussolini  during  1936  invasion. 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs  Division,  Library  of  Congress 

was  generally  minor  except  for  a  revolt  in  1943  in  Tigray — long 
a  stronghold  of  resistance  to  the  Shewans —  and  another  in  the 
Ogaden,  inhabited  chiefly  by  the  Somali.  British  aircraft  brought 
from  Aden  helped  quell  the  Tigray  rebellion,  and  two  battalions 
of  Ethiopian  troops  suppressed  the  Ogaden  uprising.  The  1942 
Anglo-Ethiopian  agreement  enabled  the  British  military  to  disarm 
the  Somali  rebels  and  to  patrol  the  region. 

After  Haile  Selassie  returned  to  the  throne  in  1941,  the  British  as- 
sumed control  over  currency  and  foreign  exchange  as  well  as  imports 
and  exports.  Additionally,  the  British  helped  Ethiopia  to  rehabilitate 
its  national  bureaucracy.  These  changes,  as  well  as  innovations 
made  by  the  Italians  during  the  occupation,  brought  home  to  many 
Ethiopians  the  need  to  modernize — at  least  in  some  sectors  of  public 
life — if  the  country  were  to  survive  as  an  independent  entity. 

In  addition,  the  emperor  made  territorial  demands,  but  these 
met  with  little  sympathy  from  the  British.  Requests  for  the  annex- 
ation of  Eritrea,  which  the  Ethiopians  claimed  to  be  racially,  cul- 
turally, and  economically  inseparable  from  Ethiopia,  were  received 
with  an  awareness  on  the  part  of  the  British  of  a  growing  Eritrean 
sense  of  separate  political  identity.  Similarly,  Italian  Somaliland 
was  intended  by  the  British  to  be  part  of  "Greater  Somalia";  thus, 
the  emperor's  claims  to  that  territory  were  also  rejected. 


41 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Postwar  Period,  1945-60:  Reform  and  Opposition 

Despite  criticism  of  the  emperor's  1936  decision  to  go  into  ex- 
ile, the  concept  of  the  monarchy  remained  widely  accepted  after 
World  War  II.  The  country's  leaders  and  the  church  assumed  that 
victory  over  the  Italians  essentially  meant  the  restoration  of  their 
traditional  privileges.  Before  long,  however,  new  social  classes 
stirred  into  life  by  Haile  Selassie's  centralizing  policies,  as  well  as 
a  younger  generation  full  of  frustrated  expectations,  clashed  with 
forces  bent  on  maintaining  the  traditional  system. 

Change  and  Resistance 

The  expansion  of  central  authority  by  appointed  officials  required 
a  dependable  tax  base,  and  that  in  turn  encroached  on  the  estab- 
lished prerogatives  of  those  who  had  been  granted  large  holdings 
in  the  south  and  of  ^//-holders  of  the  Amhara-Tigray  highlands. 
Consequently,  in  March  1942,  without  reference  to  the  restored 
parliament,  the  emperor  decreed  a  taxation  system  that  divided 
all  land  into  one  of  three  categories:  fertile,  semifertile,  and  poor. 
A  fixed  levy,  depending  on  category,  was  imposed  for  each  gasha 
(forty  hectares)  of  land. 

The  nobles  of  Gojam,  Tigray,  and  Begemdir  refused  to  accept 
any  limitation  upon  the  prevailing  land  tenure  system  and  suc- 
cessfully battled  the  government  over  the  issue.  The  emperor  ac- 
knowledged defeat  by  excluding  those  provinces  from  the  tax.  When 
landlords  elsewhere  also  protested  the  tax,  the  emperor  exempted 
them  as  well,  contenting  himself  with  a  flat  10  percent  tithe  on  all 
but  church  land.  But  this  tax,  traditionally  collected  by  landlords, 
was  simply  passed  on  to  the  tenants.  In  short,  the  emperor  pur- 
sued policies  that  did  not  infringe  on  the  rights  of  the  nobility  and 
other  large  landholders.  In  1951,  in  response  to  additional  pres- 
sure from  the  landlords,  Haile  Selassie  further  reduced  the  land 
tax  payable  by  landlords  and  not  covered  by  previous  exemptions; 
the  peasant  cultivator,  as  in  centuries  past,  continued  to  carry  the 
entire  taxation  burden. 

Some  reform  was  also  effected  within  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox 
Church.  In  July  1948,  Haile  Selassie  initiated  steps,  completed  in 
1956,  by  which  he,  rather  than  the  patriarch  of  Alexandria,  would 
appoint  the  abun,  or  patriarch,  of  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church. 
Thus,  for  the  first  time  in  sixteen  centuries  of  Ethiopian  Chris- 
tianity, an  Ethiopian  rather  than  an  Egyptian  served  as  head  of 
the  national  church.  The  Ethiopian  church,  however,  continued 
to  recognize  the  primacy  of  the  Alexandrian  see.  This  appointment 
was  followed  by  the  creation  of  enough  new  bishoprics  to  allow  the 


42 


Historical  Setting 


Ethiopians  to  elect  their  own  patriarch.  Abuna  Basilios,  the  first 
Ethiopian  archbishop,  was  elevated  to  the  status  of  patriarch  in 
1959.  The  postwar  years  also  saw  a  change  in  the  church-state  rela- 
tionship; the  vast  church  landholdings  became  subject  to  tax  legis- 
lation, and  the  clergy  lost  the  right  to  try  fellow  church  officials 
for  civil  offenses  in  their  own  court. 

Acutely  aware  of  his  international  image,  Haile  Selassie  also  was 
active  on  the  diplomatic  front  (see  Foreign  Policy,  ch.  4).  Ethio- 
pia was  a  founding  member  of  the  United  Nations  (UN)  and  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  After  the  postwar  relation- 
ship with  Britain  wound  down,  the  emperor  in  1953  asked  the 
United  States  for  military  assistance  and  economic  support.  Al- 
though his  dependence  on  Washington  grew,  Haile  Selassie  diver- 
sified the  sources  of  his  international  assistance,  which  included 
such  disparate  nations  as  Italy,  China,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany),  Taiwan,  Yugoslavia,  Sweden,  and  the 
Soviet  Union. 

Administrative  Change  and  the  1955  Constitution 

In  pursuit  of  reform,  Haile  Selassie  faced  the  recalcitrance  of 
the  provincial  nobility,  other  great  landholders,  and  church  offi- 
cials— all  of  whom  intended  to  maintain  their  power  and  privileges. 
Moreover,  some  provincial  nobility  opposed  the  emperor  because 
of  their  own  long-held  claims  to  the  throne.  Whatever  his  inten- 
tions as  a  reformer,  Haile  Selassie  was  a  political  realist  and  recog- 
nized that,  lacking  a  strong  military,  he  had  to  compromise  with 
the  Amhara  and  Tigray  nobility  and  with  the  church.  And,  where 
required,  he  made  his  peace  with  other  ethnic  groups  in  the  em- 
pire. For  example,  he  eventually  granted  autonomy  over  Afar  areas 
that  Addis  Ababa  could  not  dominate  by  armed  force  to  the  sultan 
of  Aussa.  In  general,  political  changes  were  few  and  were  com- 
promised at  the  first  sign  of  substantial  opposition.  In  the  1950s, 
despite  his  many  years  as  emperor  and  his  international  stature, 
there  was  almost  no  significant  section  of  the  Ethiopian  popula- 
tion on  which  Haile  Selassie  could  rely  to  support  him  in  such 
efforts. 

The  emperor  sought  to  gain  some  control  over  local  government 
by  placing  it  in  the  hands  of  the  central  administration  in  Addis 
Ababa.  He  revised  the  administrative  divisions  and  established  po- 
litical and  administrative  offices  corresponding  to  them.  The  larg- 
est of  these  administrative  units  were  the  provinces  (teklay  ghizats), 
of  which  there  were  fourteen  in  the  mid-1960s,  each  under  a  gover- 
nor general  appointed  directly  by  Haile  Selassie.  Each  province 
was  subdivided  into  subprovinces  (awrajas),  districts  (weredas),  and 


43 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


subdistricts  (mikitil  weredas).  Although  the  structure  outwardly 
resembled  a  modern  state  apparatus,  its  impact  was  largely  dissi- 
pated by  the  fact  that  higher-ranking  landed  nobles  held  all  the 
important  offices.  Younger  and  better  educated  officials  were  lit- 
tle more  than  aides  to  the  governors  general,  and  their  advice  more 
often  than  not  was  contemptuously  set  aside  by  their  superiors. 

The  emperor  also  attempted  to  strengthen  the  national  govern- 
ment. A  new  generation  of  educated  Ethiopians  was  introduced 
to  new  enlarged  ministries,  the  powers  of  which  were  made  more 
specific.  The  emperor  established  a  national  judiciary  and  appointed 
its  judges.  Finally,  in  1955  he  proclaimed  a  revised  constitution. 
Apparently,  he  sought  to  provide  a  formal  basis  for  his  efforts  at 
centralization  and  to  attract  the  loyalty  of  those  who  gained  their 
livelihood  from  relatively  modern  economic  activities  or  who  were 
better  educated  than  most  Ethiopians. 

The  younger  leaders  were  mostly  the  sons  of  the  traditional  elite. 
Having  been  educated  abroad,  they  were  favorably  disposed  toward 
reform  and  were  frequently  frustrated  and  in  some  cases  alienated 
by  their  inability  to  initiate  and  implement  it.  The  remnants  of 
the  small  number  of  educated  Ethiopians  of  an  earlier  generation 
had  been  appointed  to  high  government  positions.  But  whatever 
their  previous  concern  with  reform,  they  had  little  impact  on  tradi- 
tional methods,  and  by  the  mid-1950s  even  this  earlier  reformist 
elite  was  considered  conservative  by  the  succeeding  generation. 

The  new  elite  was  drawn  largely  from  the  postwar  generation  and 
was  generally  the  product  of  a  half-dozen  secondary  schools  oper- 
ated by  foreign  staffs.  A  majority  of  the  students  continued  to  come 
from  families  of  the  landed  nobility,  but  they  were  profoundly  af- 
fected by  the  presence  of  students  from  less  affluent  backgrounds 
and  by  their  more  democratically  oriented  Western  teachers. 

The  1955  constitution  was  prompted,  like  its  1931  predecessor, 
by  a  concern  with  international  opinion.  Such  opinion  was  partic- 
ularly important  at  a  time  when  some  neighboring  African  states 
were  rapidly  advancing  under  European  colonial  tutelage  and  Ethio- 
pia was  pressing  its  claims  internationally  for  the  incorporation  of 
Eritrea,  where  an  elected  parliament  and  more  modern  adminis- 
tration had  existed  since  1952. 

The  bicameral  Ethiopian  parliament  played  no  part  in  drawing 
up  the  1955  constitution,  which,  far  from  limiting  the  emperor's 
control,  emphasized  the  religious  origins  of  imperial  power  and 
extended  the  centralization  process.  The  Senate  remained  appoin- 
tive, but  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  was,  at  least  nominally,  elected. 
However,  the  absence  of  a  census,  the  near  total  illiteracy  of  the 
population,  and  the  domination  of  the  countryside  by  the  nobility 


44 


Historical  Setting 


meant  that  the  majority  of  candidates  who  sought  election  in  1957 
were  in  effect  chosen  by  the  elite.  The  Chamber  of  Deputies  was 
not  altogether  a  rubber  stamp,  at  times  discussing  bills  and  ques- 
tioning state  ministers.  However,  provisions  in  the  constitution  that 
guaranteed  personal  freedoms  and  liberties,  including  freedom  of 
assembly,  movement,  and  speech,  and  the  due  process  of  law,  were 
so  far  removed  from  the  realities  of  Ethiopian  life  that  no  group 
or  individual  sought  to  act  upon  them  publicly. 

The  Attempted  Coup  of  1960  and  Its  Aftermath 

Haile  Selassie's  efforts  to  achieve  a  measure  of  change  without 
jeopardizing  his  own  power  stimulated  rising  expectations,  some 
of  which  he  was  unwilling  or  unable  to  satisfy.  Impatient  with  the 
rate  or  form  of  social  and  political  change,  several  groups  conspired 
to  launch  a  coup  d'etat  on  December  13,  1960,  while  the  emperor 
was  abroad  on  one  of  his  frequent  trips.  The  leadership  of  the  1960 
revolt  came  from  three  groups:  the  commander  of  the  Imperial 
Bodyguard,  Mengistu  Neway,  and  his  followers;  a  few  security  offi- 
cials, including  the  police  chief;  and  a  handful  of  radical  intellec- 
tuals related  to  the  officials,  including  Girmame  Neway,  Mengistu 's 
brother. 

The  coup  was  initially  successful  in  the  capital,  as  the  rebels  seized 
the  crown  prince  and  more  than  twenty  cabinet  ministers  and  other 
government  leaders.  The  support  of  the  Imperial  Bodyguard,  the 
backbone  of  the  revolt,  was  obtained  without  informing  the  en- 
listed men — or  even  a  majority  of  the  officers — of  the  purpose  of 
the  rebels'  actions.  The  proclaimed  intent  of  the  coup  leaders  was 
the  establishment  of  a  government  that  would  improve  the  eco- 
nomic, social,  and  political  position  of  the  general  population,  but 
they  also  appealed  to  traditional  authority  in  the  person  of  the  crown 
prince.  No  mention  was  made  of  the  emperor. 

The  coup's  leaders  failed  to  achieve  popular  support  for  their 
actions.  Although  university  students  demonstrated  in  favor  of  the 
coup,  army  and  air  force  units  remained  loyal  to  the  emperor,  who 
returned  to  the  capital  on  December  17.  The  patriarch  of  the 
church,  who  condemned  the  rebels  as  antireligious  traitors  and 
called  for  fealty  to  the  emperor,  supported  the  loyalists.  Despite 
the  coup's  failure,  it  succeeded  in  stripping  the  monarchy  of  its 
claim  to  universal  acceptance  and  led  to  a  polarization  of  tradi- 
tional and  modern  forces. 

Growth  of  Secessionist  Threats 

Outside  the  Amhara-Tigray  heartland,  the  two  areas  posing  the 
most  consistent  problems  for  Ethiopia's  rulers  were  Eritrea  and 
the  largely  Somali-occupied  Ogaden  and  adjacent  regions. 


45 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Liberation  Struggle  in  Eritrea 

Eritrea  had  been  placed  under  British  military  administration 
in  1941  after  the  Italian  surrender.  In  keeping  with  a  1950  deci- 
sion of  the  UN  General  Assembly,  British  military  administration 
ended  in  September  1952  and  was  replaced  by  a  new  autonomous 
Eritrean  government  in  federal  union  with  Ethiopia.  Federation 
with  the  former  Italian  colony  restored  an  unhindered  maritime 
frontier  to  the  country.  The  new  arrangement  also  enabled  the  coun- 
try to  gain  limited  control  of  a  territory  that,  at  least  in  its  inland 
areas,  was  more  advanced  politically  and  economically. 

The  Four  Power  Inquiry  Commission  established  by  the  World 
War  II  Allies  (Britain,  France,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  United 
States)  had  failed  to  agree  in  its  September  1948  report  on  a  fu- 
ture course  for  Eritrea.  Several  countries  had  displayed  an  active 
interest  in  the  area.  In  the  immediate  postwar  years,  Italy  had  re- 
quested that  Eritrea  be  returned  as  a  colony  or  as  a  trusteeship. 
This  bid  was  supported  initially  by  the  Soviet  Union,  which  anti- 
cipated a  communist  victory  at  the  Italian  polls.  The  Arab  states, 
seeing  Eritrea  and  its  large  Muslim  population  as  an  extension  of 
the  Arab  world,  sought  the  establishment  of  an  independent  state. 
Some  Britons  favored  a  division  of  the  territory,  with  the  Chris- 
tian areas  and  the  coast  from  Mitsiwa  southward  going  to  Ethio- 
pia and  the  northwest  area  going  to  Sudan. 

A  UN  commission,  which  arrived  in  Eritrea  in  February  1950, 
eventually  approved  a  plan  involving  some  form  of  association  with 
Ethiopia.  In  December  the  UN  General  Assembly  adopted  a  reso- 
lution affirming  the  commission's  plan,  with  the  provision  that  Brit- 
ain, the  administering  power,  should  facilitate  the  UN  efforts  and 
depart  from  the  colony  no  later  than  September  15,  1952.  Faced 
with  this  constraint,  the  British  administration  held  elections  on 
March  16,  1952,  for  a  representative  assembly  of  sixty-eight  mem- 
bers. This  body,  made  up  equally  of  Christians  and  Muslims,  ac- 
cepted the  draft  constitution  advanced  by  the  UN  commissioner 
on  July  10.  The  constitution  was  ratified  by  the  emperor  on  Sep- 
tember 11,  and  the  assembly,  by  prearrangement,  was  transformed 
into  the  Eritrean  Assembly  three  days  before  the  federation  was 
proclaimed. 

The  UN  General  Assembly  resolution  of  September  15,  1952, 
adopted  by  a  vote  of  forty-seven  to  ten,  provided  that  Eritrea  should 
be  linked  to  Ethiopia  through  a  loose  federal  structure  under  the 
emperor's  sovereignty  but  with  a  form  and  organization  of  inter- 
nal self-government.  The  federal  government,  which  for  all  intents 
and  purposes  was  the  existing  imperial  government,  was  to  control 


46 


Historical  Setting 


foreign  affairs,  defense,  foreign  and  interstate  commerce,  trans- 
portation, and  finance.  Control  over  domestic  affairs  (including 
police,  local  administration,  and  taxation  to  meet  its  own  budget) 
was  to  be  exercised  by  an  elected  Eritrean  assembly  on  the 
parliamentary  model.  The  state  was  to  have  its  own  administra- 
tive and  judicial  structure  and  its  own  flag. 

Almost  from  the  start  of  federation,  the  emperor's  representa- 
tive undercut  the  territory's  separate  status  under  the  federal  sys- 
tem. In  August  1955,  Tedla  Bairu,  an  Eritrean  who  was  the  chief 
executive  elected  by  the  assembly,  resigned  under  pressure  from 
the  emperor,  who  replaced  Tedla  with  his  own  nominee.  He  made 
Amharic  the  official  language  in  place  of  Arabic  and  Tigrinya,  ter- 
minated the  use  of  the  Eritrean  flag,  and  moved  many  businesses 
out  of  Eritrea.  In  addition,  the  central  government  proscribed  all 
political  parties,  imposed  censorship,  gave  the  top  administrative 
positions  to  Amhara,  and  abandoned  the  principle  of  parity  be- 
tween Christian  and  Muslim  officials.  In  November  1962,  the 
Eritrean  Assembly,  many  of  whose  members  had  been  accused  of 
accepting  bribes,  voted  unanimously  to  change  Eritrea's  status  to 
that  of  a  province  of  Ethiopia.  Following  his  appointment  of  the 
arch-conservative  Ras  Asrate  Kasa  as  governor  general,  the  em- 
peror was  accused  of  "refeudalizing"  the  territory. 

The  extinction  of  the  federation  consolidated  internal  and  ex- 
ternal opposition  to  union  (see  The  Eritrean  Movement,  ch.  4;  The 
Eritreans,  ch.  5).  Four  years  earlier,  in  1958,  a  number  of  Eritrean 
exiles  had  founded  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Movement  (ELM)  in 
Cairo,  under  Hamid  Idris  Awate's  leadership.  This  organization, 
however,  soon  was  neutralized.  A  new  faction,  the  Eritrean  Libera- 
tion Front  (ELF),  emerged  in  1960.  Initially  a  Muslim  movement, 
the  ELF  was  nationalist  rather  than  Marxist  and  received  Iraqi 
and  Syrian  support.  As  urban  Christians  joined,  the  ELF  became 
more  radical  and  anticapitalist.  Beginning  in  1961,  the  ELF  turned 
to  armed  struggle  and  by  1966  challenged  imperial  forces  through- 
out Eritrea. 

The  rapid  growth  of  the  ELF  also  created  internal  divisions  be- 
tween urban  and  rural  elements,  socialists  and  nationalists,  and 
Christians  and  Muslims.  Although  these  divisions  did  not  take  any 
clear  form,  they  were  magnified  as  the  ELF  extended  its  opera- 
tions and  won  international  publicity.  In  June  1970,  Osman  Salah 
Sabbe,  former  head  of  the  Muslim  League,  broke  away  from  the 
ELF  and  formed  the  Popular  Liberation  Forces  (PLF),  which  led 
directly  to  the  founding  of  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front 
(EPLF)  in  early  1972.  Both  organizations  initially  attracted  a  large 


47 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

number  of  urban,  intellectual,  and  leftist  Christian  youths  and 
projected  a  strong  socialist  and  nationalist  image.  By  1975  the  EPLF 
had  more  than  10,000  members  in  the  field.  However,  the  growth 
of  the  EPLF  was  also  accompanied  by  an  intensification  of  inter- 
necine Eritrean  conflict,  particularly  between  1972  and  1974,  when 
casualties  were  well  over  1,200.  In  1976  Osman  broke  with  the 
EPLF  and  formed  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Popular  Libera- 
tion Front  (ELF-PLF).  The  division  reflected  differences  between 
combatants  in  Eritrea  and  representatives  abroad  as  well  as  per- 
sonal rivalries  and  basic  ideological  differences,  factors  important 
in  earlier  splits  within  the  Eritrean  separatist  movement. 

Encouraged  by  the  imperial  regime's  collapse  and  attendant  con- 
fusion, the  guerrillas  extended  their  control  over  the  whole  region 
by  1977.  Ethiopian  forces  were  largely  confined  to  urban  centers 
and  controlled  the  major  roads  only  by  day. 

Discontent  in  Tigray 

Overt  dissidence  in  Tigray  during  Haile  Selassie's  reign  centered 
on  the  1943  resistance  to  imperial  rule  known  as  the  Weyane.  The 
movement  took  advantage  of  popular  discontent  against  Amhara 
rule  but  was  primarily  a  localized  resistance  to  imperial  rule  that 
depended  on  three  main  sources  of  support.  These  were  the  semi- 
pastoralists  of  eastern  Tigray,  including  the  Azebo  and  Ray  a,  who 
believed  their  traditional  Oromo  social  structure  to  be  threatened; 
the  local  Tigray  nobility,  who  perceived  their  position  to  be  en- 
dangered by  the  central  government's  growth;  and  the  peasantry, 
who  felt  victimized  by  government  officials  and  their  militias. 

The  course  of  the  Weyane  was  relatively  brief,  lasting  from  May 
22  to  October  14,  1943.  Although  the  rebels  made  some  initial  gains, 
the  imperial  forces,  supported  by  British  aircraft,  soon  took  the 
offensive.  Poor  military  leadership,  combined  with  disagreements 
among  the  rebel  leaders,  detracted  from  the  effectiveness  of  their 
efforts.  After  the  fall  of  Mekele,  capital  of  Tigray,  on  October  14, 
1943,  practically  all  organized  resistance  collapsed.  The  govern- 
ment exiled  or  imprisoned  the  leaders  of  the  revolt.  The  emperor 
took  reprisals  against  peasants  suspected  of  supporting  the  Weyane. 

Although  a  military  resolution  of  the  Weyane  restored  imperial 
authority  to  Tigray,  the  harsh  measures  used  by  the  Ethiopian  mili- 
tary to  do  so  created  resentment  of  imperial  rule  in  many  quar- 
ters. This  resentment,  coupled  with  a  long-standing  feeling  that 
Shewan  Amhara  rule  was  of  an  upstart  nature,  lasted  through  the 
end  of  Haile  Selassie's  reign.  After  Haile  Selassie's  demise  in  1974, 
separatist  feelings  again  emerged  throughout  Tigray. 


48 


Historical  Setting 


The  Ogaden  and  the  Haud 

Ethiopia's  entry  into  the  Somali  region  in  modern  times  dated 
from  the  conquest  of  Harer  in  the  late  1890s  by  Menelik,  who  based 
his  actions  on  old  claims  of  Ethiopian  sovereignty.  In  1945  Haile 
Selassie,  fearing  the  possibility  of  British  support  for  a  separate 
Somali  state  that  would  include  the  Ogaden,  claimed  Italian  Somali- 
land  as  a  "lost  province."  In  Italian  Somaliland,  the  Somali  Youth 
League  (SYL)  resisted  this  claim  and  in  its  turn  demanded  unifi- 
cation of  all  Somali  areas,  including  those  in  Ethiopia. 

After  the  British  evacuated  the  Ogaden  in  1948,  Ethiopian  offi- 
cers took  over  administration  in  the  city  of  Jijiga,  at  one  point  sup- 
pressing a  demonstration  led  by  the  SYL,  which  the  government 
subsequently  outlawed.  At  the  same  time,  Ethiopia  renounced 
its  claim  to  Italian  Somaliland  in  deference  to  UN  calls  for  self- 
determination.  The  Ethiopians,  however,  maintained  that  self- 
determination  was  not  incompatible  with  eventual  union. 

Immediately  upon  the  birth  of  the  Republic  of  Somalia  in  1960, 
which  followed  the  merger  of  British  Somaliland  and  Italian  Soma- 
liland, the  new  country  proclaimed  an  irredentist  policy.  Somalia 
laid  claim  to  Somali-populated  regions  of  French  Somaliland  (later 
called  the  French  Territory  of  the  Afars  and  Issas,  and  Djibouti 
after  independence  in  1977),  the  northeastern  corner  of  Kenya, 
and  the  Ogaden,  a  vast,  ill-defined  region  occupied  by  Somali 
nomads  extending  southeast  from  Ethiopia's  southern  high- 
lands that  includes  a  separate  region  east  of  Harer  known  as  the 
Haud.  The  uncertainty  over  the  precise  location  of  the  frontier  be- 
tween Ethiopia  and  the  former  Italian  possessions  in  Somalia  fur- 
ther complicated  these  claims.  Despite  UN  efforts  to  promote  an 
agreement,  none  was  made  in  the  colonial  or  the  Italian  trustee- 
ship period. 

In  the  northeast,  an  Anglo-Ethiopian  treaty  determined  the  fron- 
tier's official  location.  However,  Somalia  contended  that  it  was  un- 
fairly placed  so  as  to  exclude  the  herders  resident  in  Somalia  from 
vital  seasonal  grazing  lands  in  the  Haud.  The  British  had  ad- 
ministered the  Haud  as  an  integral  part  of  British  Somaliland, 
although  Ethiopian  sovereignty  had  been  recognized  there.  After 
it  was  disbanded  in  the  rest  of  Ethiopia,  the  British  military  ad- 
ministration continued  to  supervise  the  area  from  Harer  eastward 
and  did  not  withdraw  from  the  Haud  until  1955.  Even  then,  the 
British  stressed  the  region's  importance  to  Somalia  by  requiring 
the  Ethiopians  to  guarantee  the  Somali  free  access  to  grazing  lands. 

Somalia  refused  to  recognize  any  pre- 1960  treaties  defining  the 
Somali-Ethiopian  borders  because  colonial  governments  had 


49 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

concluded  the  agreements.  Despite  the  need  for  access  to  pasturage 
for  local  herds,  the  Somali  government  even  refused  co  acknowledge 
the  British  treaty  guaranteeing  Somali  grazing  rights  in  the  Haud 
because  it  would  have  indirectly  recognized  Ethiopian  sovereignty 
over  the  area. 

Within  six  months  after  Somali  independence,  military  incidents 
occurred  between  Ethiopian  and  Somali  forces  along  their  mutual 
border.  Confrontations  escalated  again  in  1964,  when  the  Ethio- 
pian air  force  raided  Somali  villages  and  encampments  inside  the 
Somali  border.  Hostilities  were  ended  through  mediation  by  the 
OAU  and  Sudan.  However,  Somalia  continued  to  promote  irreden- 
tism  by  supporting  the  Western  Somali  Liberation  Front  (WSLF), 
which  was  active  in  the  Ogaden.  Claims  of  oil  discoveries  prompted 
the  resurgence  of  fighting  in  1973. 

Revolution  and  Military  Government 

In  early  1974,  Ethiopia  entered  a  period  of  profound  political, 
economic,  and  social  change,  frequently  accompanied  by  violence. 
Confrontation  between  traditional  and  modern  forces  erupted  and 
changed  the  political,  economic,  and  social  nature  of  the  Ethio- 
pian state. 

Background  to  Revolution,  1960-74 

The  last  fourteen  years  of  Haile  Selassie's  reign  witnessed  growing 
opposition  to  his  regime.  After  the  suppression  of  the  1960  coup 
attempt,  the  emperor  sought  to  reclaim  the  loyalty  of  coup  sym- 
pathizers by  stepping  up  reform.  Much  of  this  effort  took  the  form 
of  land  grants  to  military  and  police  officers,  however,  and  no  co- 
herent pattern  of  economic  and  social  development  appeared. 

In  1966  a  plan  emerged  to  confront  the  traditional  forces  through 
the  implementation  of  a  modern  tax  system.  Implicit  in  the 
proposal,  which  required  registration  of  all  land,  was  the  aim  of 
destroying  the  power  of  the  landed  nobility.  But  when  progressive 
tax  proposals  were  submitted  to  parliament  in  the  late  1960s,  they 
were  vigorously  opposed  by  the  members,  all  of  whom  were 
property  owners.  Parliament  passed  a  tax  on  agricultural  produce 
in  November  1967,  but  in  a  form  vastly  altered  from  the  govern- 
ment proposal.  Even  this,  however,  was  fiercely  resisted  by  the 
landed  class  in  Gojam,  and  the  entire  province  revolted.  In  1969, 
after  two  years  of  military  action,  the  central  government  with- 
drew its  troops,  discontinued  enforcement  of  the  tax,  and  canceled 
all  arrears  of  taxation  going  back  to  1940. 

The  emperor's  defeat  in  Gojam  encouraged  defiance  by  other  pro- 
vincial landowners,  although  not  on  the  same  scale.  But  legislation 


50 


Historical  Setting 


calling  for  property  registration  and  for  modification  of  landlord- 
tenant  relationships  was  more  boldly  resisted  in  the  Chamber  of 
Deputies  and  the  Senate.  Debate  on  these  proposals  continued  until 
the  mid-1970s. 

At  the  same  time  the  emperor  was  facing  opposition  to  change, 
other  forces  were  exerting  direct  or  indirect  pressure  in  favor  of 
reform.  Beginning  in  1965,  student  demonstrations  focused  on  the 
need  to  implement  land  reform  and  to  address  corruption  and  ris- 
ing prices.  Peasant  disturbances,  although  on  a  small  scale,  were 
especially  numerous  in  the  southern  provinces,  where  the  imper- 
ial government  had  traditionally  rewarded  its  supporters  with  land 
grants.  Although  it  allowed  labor  unions  to  organize  in  1962,  the 
government  restricted  union  activities.  Soon,  even  the  Confeder- 
ation of  Ethiopian  Labor  Unions  (CELU)  was  criticized  as  being 
too  subservient  to  the  government.  Faced  with  such  a  multiplicity 
of  problems,  the  aging  emperor  increasingly  left  domestic  issues 
in  the  care  of  his  prime  minister,  Aklilu  Habte  Wold  (appointed 
in  1961),  and  turned  his  attention  to  foreign  affairs. 

The  Establishment  of  the  Derg 

The  government's  failure  to  effect  significant  economic  and  po- 
litical reforms  over  the  previous  fourteen  years — combined  with 
rising  inflation,  corruption,  a  famine  that  affected  several  provinces 
(but  especially  Welo  and  Tigray)  and  that  was  concealed  from  the 
outside  world,  and  the  growing  discontent  of  urban  interest 
groups — provided  the  backdrop  against  which  the  Ethiopian  revo- 
lution began  to  unfold  in  early  1974.  Whereas  elements  of  the 
urban-based,  modernizing  elite  previously  had  sought  to  establish 
a  parliamentary  democracy,  the  initiation  of  the  1974  revolution 
was  the  work  of  the  military,  acting  essentially  in  its  own  immedi- 
ate interests.  The  unrest  that  began  in  January  of  that  year  then 
spread  to  the  civilian  population  in  an  outburst  of  general  dis- 
content. 

The  Ethiopian  military  on  the  eve  of  the  revolution  was  riven 
by  factionalism;  the  emperor  promoted  such  division  to  prevent 
any  person  or  group  from  becoming  too  powerful.  Factions  included 
the  Imperial  Bodyguard,  which  had  been  rebuilt  since  the  1960 
coup  attempt;  the  Territorial  Army  (Ethiopia's  national  ground 
force),  which  was  broken  into  many  factions  but  which  was  domi- 
nated by  a  group  of  senior  officers  called  "The  Exiles"  because 
they  had  fled  with  Haile  Selassie  in  1936  after  the  Italian  invasion; 
and  the  air  force.  The  officer  graduates  of  the  Harer  Military  Acad- 
emy also  formed  a  distinct  group  in  opposition  to  the  Holeta  Mili- 
tary Training  Center  graduates  (see  Training,  ch.  5). 


51 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Conditions  throughout  the  army  were  frequently  substandard, 
with  enlisted  personnel  often  receiving  low  pay  and  insufficient  food 
and  supplies.  Enlisted  personnel  as  well  as  some  of  the  Holeta  gradu- 
ates came  from  the  peasantry,  which  at  the  time  was  suffering  from 
a  prolonged  drought  and  resulting  famine.  The  general  percep- 
tion was  that  the  central  government  was  deliberately  refusing  to 
take  special  measures  for  famine  relief.  Much  popular  discontent 
over  this  issue,  plus  the  generally  perceived  lack  of  civil  freedoms, 
had  created  widespread  discontent  among  the  middle  class,  which 
had  been  built  up  and  supported  by  the  emperor  since  World  War 
II. 

The  revolution  began  with  a  mutiny  of  the  Territorial  Army's 
Fourth  Brigade  at  Negele  in  the  southern  province  of  Sidamo  on 
January  12,  1974.  Soldiers  protested  poor  food  and  water  condi- 
tions; led  by  their  noncommissioned  officers,  they  rebelled  and  took 
their  commanding  officer  hostage,  requesting  redress  from  the  em- 
peror. Attempts  at  reconciliation  and  a  subsequent  impasse  pro- 
moted the  spread  of  the  discontent  to  other  units  throughout  the 
military,  including  those  stationed  in  Eritrea.  There,  the  Second 
Division  at  Asmera  mutinied,  imprisoned  its  commanders,  and  an- 
nounced its  support  for  the  Negele  mutineers.  The  Signal  Corps, 
in  sympathy  with  the  uprising,  broadcast  information  about  events 
to  the  rest  of  the  military.  Moreover,  by  that  time,  general  discon- 
tent had  resulted  in  the  rise  of  resistance  throughout  Ethiopia.  Op- 
position to  increased  fuel  prices  and  curriculum  changes  in  the 
schools,  as  well  as  low  teachers'  salaries  and  many  other  grievances, 
crystalized  by  the  end  of  February.  Teachers,  workers,  and  even- 
tually students — all  demanding  higher  pay  and  better  conditions 
of  work  and  education — also  promoted  other  causes,  such  as  land 
reform  and  famine  relief.  Finally,  the  discontented  groups  de- 
manded a  new  political  system.  Riots  in  the  capital  and  the  con- 
tinued military  mutiny  eventually  led  to  the  resignation  of  Prime 
Minister  Aklilu.  He  was  replaced  on  February  28,  1974,  by  another 
Shewan  aristocrat,  Endalkatchew  Mekonnen,  whose  government 
would  last  only  until  July  22. 

On  March  5,  the  government  announced  a  revision  of  the  1955 
constitution — the  prime  minister  henceforth  would  be  responsible 
to  parliament.  The  new  government  probably  reflected  Haile 
Selassie's  decision  to  minimize  change;  the  new  cabinet,  for  in- 
stance, represented  virtually  all  of  Ethiopia's  aristocratic  families. 
The  conservative  constitutional  committee  appointed  on  March  2 1 
included  no  representatives  of  the  groups  pressing  for  change.  The 
new  government  introduced  no  substantial  reforms  (although  it 
granted  the  military  several  salary  increases).  It  also  postponed 


52 


Historical  Setting 


unpopular  changes  in  the  education  system  and  instituted  price  roll- 
backs and  controls  to  check  inflation.  As  a  result,  the  general  dis- 
content subsided  somewhat  by  late  March. 

By  this  time,  there  were  several  factions  within  the  military  that 
claimed  to  speak  for  all  or  part  of  the  armed  forces.  These  included 
the  Imperial  Bodyguard  under  the  old  high  command,  a  group  of 
"radical"  junior  officers,  and  a  larger  number  of  moderate  and 
radical  army  and  police  officers  grouped  around  Colonel  Alem  Zewd 
Tessema,  commander  of  an  airborne  brigade  based  in  Addis  Ababa. 
In  late  March,  Alem  Zewd  became  head  of  an  informal,  inter-unit 
coordinating  committee  that  came  to  be  called  the  Armed  Forces 
Coordinating  Committee  (AFCC).  Acting  with  the  approval  of  the 
new  prime  minister,  Alem  Zewd  arrested  a  large  number  of  dis- 
gruntled air  force  officers  and  in  general  appeared  to  support  the 
Endalkatchew  government. 

Such  steps,  however,  did  not  please  many  of  the  junior  officers, 
who  wished  to  pressure  the  regime  into  making  major  political  re- 
forms. In  early  June,  a  dozen  or  more  of  them  broke  away  from 
the  AFCC  and  requested  that  every  military  and  police  unit  send 
three  representatives  to  Addis  Ababa  to  organize  for  further  ac- 
tion. In  late  June,  a  body  of  men  that  eventually  totaled  about  120, 
none  above  the  rank  of  major  and  almost  all  of  whom  remained 
anonymous,  organized  themselves  into  a  new  body  called  the  Coor- 
dinating Committee  of  the  Armed  Forces,  Police,  and  Territorial 
Army.  This  body  soon  came  to  be  called  the  Derg  (Amharic  for 
"committee"  or  "council" — see  Glossary).  They  elected  Major 
Mengistu  Haile  Mariam  chairman  and  Major  Atnafu  Abate  vice 
chairman,  both  outspoken  proponents  of  far-reaching  change. 

This  group  of  men  would  remain  at  the  forefront  of  political  and 
military  affairs  in  Ethiopia  for  the  next  thirteen  years.  The  identi- 
ty of  the  Derg  never  changed  after  these  initial  meetings  in  1974. 
Although  its  membership  declined  drastically  during  the  next  few 
years  as  individual  officers  were  eliminated,  no  new  members  were 
admitted  into  its  ranks,  and  its  deliberations  and  membership  re- 
mained almost  entirely  unknown.  At  first,  the  Derg's  officers  exer- 
cised their  influence  behind  the  scenes;  only  later,  during  the  era 
of  the  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council,  did  its  leaders 
emerge  from  anonymity  and  become  both  the  official  as  well  as 
the  de  facto  governing  personnel. 

Because  its  members  in  effect  represented  the  entire  military  es- 
tablishment, the  Derg  could  henceforth  claim  to  exercise  real  power 
and  could  mobilize  troops  on  its  own,  thereby  depriving  the  em- 
peror's government  of  the  ultimate  means  to  govern.  Although  the 
Derg  professed  loyalty  to  the  emperor,  it  immediately  began  to 


53 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

arrest  members  of  the  aristocracy,  military,  and  government  who 
were  closely  associated  with  the  emperor  and  the  old  order.  Colonel 
Alem  Zewd,  by  now  discredited  in  the  eyes  of  the  young  radicals, 
fled. 

In  July  the  Derg  wrung  five  concessions  from  the  emperor:  the 
release  of  all  political  prisoners,  a  guarantee  of  the  safe  return  of 
exiles,  the  promulgation  and  speedy  implementation  of  the  new 
constitution,  assurance  that  parliament  would  be  kept  in  session 
to  complete  the  aforementioned  task,  and  assurance  that  the  Derg 
would  be  allowed  to  coordinate  closely  with  the  government  at  all 
levels  of  operation.  Hereafter,  political  power  and  initiative  lay  with 
the  Derg,  which  was  increasingly  influenced  by  a  wide-ranging  pub- 
lic debate  over  the  future  of  the  country.  The  demands  made  of 
the  emperor  were  but  the  first  of  a  series  of  directives  or  actions 
that  constituted  the  "creeping  coup"  by  which  the  imperial  sys- 
tem of  government  was  slowly  dismantled.  Promoting  an  agenda 
for  lasting  changes  going  far  beyond  those  proposed  since  the  revo- 
lution began  in  January,  the  Derg  proclaimed  Ethiopia  Tikdem 
(Ethiopia  First)  as  its  guiding  philosophy.  It  forced  out  Prime 
Minister  Endalkatchew  and  replaced  him  with  Mikael  Imru,  a 
Shewan  aristocrat  with  a  reputation  as  a  liberal. 

The  Derg's  agenda  rapidly  diverged  from  that  of  the  reformers 
of  the  late  imperial  period.  In  early  August,  the  revised  constitu- 
tion, which  called  for  a  constitutional  monarchy,  was  rejected  when 
it  was  forwarded  for  approval.  Thereafter,  the  Derg  worked  to  under- 
mine the  authority  and  legitimacy  of  the  emperor,  a  policy  that  en- 
joyed much  public  support.  The  Derg  arrested  the  commander  of 
the  Imperial  Bodyguard,  disbanded  the  emperor's  governing  coun- 
cils, closed  the  private  imperial  exchequer,  and  nationalized  the 
imperial  residence  and  the  emperor's  other  landed  and  business 
holdings.  By  late  August,  the  emperor  had  been  directly  accused 
of  covering  up  the  Welo  and  Tigray  famine  of  the  early  1970s  that 
allegedly  had  killed  100,000  to  200,000  people.  After  street  demon- 
strations took  place  urging  the  emperor's  arrest,  the  Derg  formally 
deposed  Haile  Selassie  on  September  12  and  imprisoned  him.  The 
emperor  was  too  old  to  resist,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  he  really 
understood  what  was  happening  around  him.  Three  days  later, 
the  Armed  Forces  Coordinating  Committee  (i.e. ,  the  Derg)  trans- 
formed itself  into  the  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council 
(PMAC)  under  the  chairmanship  of  Lieutenant  General  Aman 
Mikael  Andom  and  proclaimed  itself  the  nation's  ruling  body. 

The  Struggle  for  Power,  1974-77 

Although  not  a  member  of  the  Derg  per  se,  General  Aman  had 
been  associated  with  the  Derg  since  July  and  had  lent  his  good  name 


54 


Revolutionary  monument  extols  the  virtues  of  communism. 

Courtesy  Paul  Henze 


to  its  efforts  to  reform  the  imperial  regime.  He  was  a  well-known, 
popular  commander  and  hero  of  a  war  against  Somalia  in  the  1960s. 
In  accordance  with  the  Derg's  wishes,  he  now  became  head  of  state, 
chairman  of  the  Council  of  Ministers,  and  minister  of  defense,  in 
addition  to  being  chairman  of  the  PMAC.  Despite  his  standing, 
however,  General  Aman  was  almost  immediately  at  odds  with  a 
majority  of  the  Derg's  members  on  three  major  issues:  the  size  of 
the  Derg  and  his  role  within  it,  the  Eritrean  insurgency,  and  the 
fate  of  political  prisoners.  Aman  claimed  that  the  120-member  Derg 
was  too  large  and  too  unwieldy  to  function  efficiently  as  a  governing 
body;  as  an  Eritrean,  he  urged  reconciliation  with  the  insurgents 
there;  and  he  opposed  the  death  penalty  for  former  government 
and  military  officials  who  had  been  arrested  since  the  revolution 
began. 

The  Derg  immediately  found  itself  under  attack  from  civilian 
groups,  especially  student  and  labor  groups  who  demanded  the  for- 
mation of  a  "people's  government"  in  which  various  national  or- 
ganizations would  be  represented.  These  demands  found  support 
in  the  Derg  among  a  faction  composed  mostly  of  army  engineers 
and  air  force  officers.  On  October  7,  the  Derg  arrested  dissidents 
supporting  the  civilian  demands.  By  mid-November,  Aman,  op- 
posed by  the  majority  of  the  Derg,  was  attempting  unsuccessfully 


55 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

to  appeal  directly  to  the  army  for  support  as  charges,  many  appar- 
ently fabricated,  mounted  against  him  within  the  Derg.  He  retired 
to  his  home  and  on  November  23  was  killed  resisting  arrest.  The 
same  evening  of  what  became  known  as  "Bloody  Saturday,"  fifty- 
nine  political  prisoners  were  executed.  Among  them  were  promi- 
nent civilians  such  as  Aklilu  and  Endalkatchew,  military  officers 
such  as  Colonel  Alem  Zewd  and  General  Abiye  Abebe  (the  em- 
peror's son-in-law  and  defense  minister  under  Endalkatchew),  and 
two  Derg  members  who  had  supported  Aman. 

Following  the  events  of  Bloody  Saturday,  Brigadier  General 
Tafari  Banti,  a  She  wan,  became  chairman  of  the  PMAC  and  head 
of  state  on  November  28,  but  power  was  retained  by  Major 
Mengistu,  who  kept  his  post  as  first  vice  chairman  of  the  PMAC, 
with  Major  Atnafu  as  second  vice  chairman.  Mengistu  hereafter 
emerged  as  the  leading  force  in  the  Derg  and  took  steps  to  protect 
and  enlarge  his  power  base.  Preparations  were  made  for  a  new 
offensive  in  Eritrea,  and  social  and  economic  reform  was  addressed; 
the  result  was  the  promulgation  on  December  20  of  the  first  so- 
cialist proclamation  for  Ethiopia. 

In  keeping  with  its  declared  socialist  path,  the  Derg  announced 
in  March  1975  that  all  royal  titles  were  revoked  and  that  the  pro- 
posed constitutional  monarchy  was  to  be  abandoned.  In  August 
Haile  Selassie  died  under  questionable  circumstances  and  was 
secretly  buried.  One  of  the  last  major  links  with  the  past  was  broken 
in  February  1976,  when  the  patriarch  of  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox 
Church,  Abuna  Tewoflos,  an  imperial  appointee,  was  deposed. 

In  April  1976,  the  Derg  at  last  set  forth  its  goals  in  greater  detail 
in  the  Program  for  the  National  Democratic  Revolution  (PNDR). 
As  announced  by  Mengistu,  these  objectives  included  progress 
toward  socialism  under  the  leadership  of  workers,  peasants,  the  pe- 
tite bourgeoisie,  and  all  antifeudal  and  anti-imperialist  forces.  The 
Derg's  ultimate  aim  was  the  creation  of  a  one-party  system.  To  ac- 
complish its  goals,  the  Derg  established  an  intermediary  organ  called 
the  Provisional  Office  for  Mass  Organization  Affairs  (POMOA). 
Designed  to  act  as  a  civilian  political  bureau,  POMOA  was  at  first 
in  the  hands  of  the  All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Movement  (whose  Amharic 
acronym  was  MEISON),  headed  by  Haile  Fida,  the  Derg's  chief 
political  adviser.  Haile  Fida,  as  opposed  to  other  leftists  who  had 
formed  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Party  (EPRP),  had 
resourcefully  adopted  the  tactic  of  working  with  the  military  in  the 
expectation  of  directing  the  revolution  from  within  (see  Political 
Participation  and  Repression,  ch.  4). 

By  late  1976,  the  Derg  had  undergone  an  internal  reconfigura- 
tion as  Mengistu 's  power  came  under  growing  opposition  and  as 


56 


Historical  Setting 


Mengistu,  Tafari,  and  Atnafu  struggled  for  supremacy.  The  in- 
stability of  this  arrangement  was  resolved  in  January  and  Febru- 
ary of  1977,  when  a  major  shootout  at  the  Grand  (Menelik's)  Palace 
in  Addis  Ababa  took  place  between  supporters  of  Tafari  and  those 
of  Mengistu,  in  which  the  latter  emerged  victorious.  With  the  death 
of  Tafari  and  his  supporters  in  the  fighting,  most  internal  oppo- 
sition within  the  Derg  had  been  eliminated,  and  Mengistu  pro- 
ceeded with  a  reorganization  of  the  Derg.  This  action  left  Mengistu 
as  the  sole  vice  chairman,  responsible  for  the  People's  Militia,  the 
urban  defense  squads,  and  the  modernization  of  the  armed  forces — 
in  other  words,  in  effective  control  of  Ethiopia's  government  and 
military.  In  November  1977,  Atnafu,  Mengistu's  last  rival  in  the 
Derg,  was  eliminated,  leaving  Mengistu  in  undisputed  command. 

Ethiopia's  Road  to  Socialism 

Soon  after  taking  power,  the  Derg  promoted  Ye-Itiopia  Hibrete- 
sebawinet  (Ethiopian  Socialism).  The  concept  was  embodied  in  slo- 
gans such  as  "self-reliance,"  "the  dignity  of  labor,"  and  "the 
supremacy  of  the  common  good."  These  slogans  were  devised  to 
combat  the  widespread  disdain  of  manual  labor  and  a  deeply  rooted 
concern  with  status.  A  central  aspect  of  socialism  was  land  reform. 
Although  there  was  common  agreement  on  the  need  for  land  re- 
form, the  Derg  found  little  agreement  on  its  application.  Most 
proposals — even  those  proffered  by  socialist  countries — counseled 
moderation  in  order  to  maintain  production.  The  Derg,  however, 
adopted  a  radical  approach,  with  the  Land  Reform  Proclamation 
of  March  1975,  which  nationalized  all  rural  land,  abolished  tenancy, 
and  put  peasants  in  charge  of  enforcement.  No  family  was  to  have 
a  plot  larger  than  ten  hectares,  and  no  one  could  employ  farm  work- 
ers. Farmers  were  expected  to  organize  peasant  associations,  one 
for  every  800  hectares,  which  would  be  headed  by  executive  com- 
mittees responsible  for  enforcement  of  the  new  order.  Implemen- 
tation of  these  measures  caused  considerable  disruption  of  local 
administration  in  rural  areas.  In  July  1975,  all  urban  land,  rent- 
able houses,  and  apartments  were  also  nationalized,  with  the  3  mil- 
lion urban  residents  organized  into  urban  dwellers'  associations, 
or  kebeles  (see  Glossary),  analogous  in  function  to  the  rural  peasant 
associations  (see  Peasant  Associations;  Kebeles,  ch.  4). 

Although  the  government  took  a  radical  approach  to  land  re- 
form, it  exercised  some  caution  with  respect  to  the  industrial  and 
commercial  sectors.  In  January  and  February  1975,  the  Derg  na- 
tionalized all  banks  and  insurance  firms  and  seized  control  of  prac- 
tically every  important  company  in  the  country.  However,  retail 


57 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

trade  and  the  wholesale  and  export- import  sectors  remained  in 
private  hands. 

Although  the  Derg  ordered  national  collective  ownership  of  land, 
the  move  was  taken  with  little  preparation  and  met  with  opposi- 
tion in  some  areas,  especially  Gojam,  Welo,  and  Tigray.  The  Derg 
also  lost  much  support  from  the  country's  left  wing,  which  had  been 
excluded  from  power  and  the  decision-making  process.  Students 
and  teachers  were  alienated  by  the  government's  closure  of  the 
university  in  Addis  Ababa  and  all  secondary  schools  in  September 
1975  in  the  face  of  threatened  strikes,  as  well  as  the  forced  mobi- 
lization of  students  in  the  Development  Through  Cooperation 
Campaign  (commonly  referred  to  as  zemecha — see  Glossary)  under 
conditions  of  military  discipline.  The  elimination  of  the  Con- 
federation of  Ethiopian  Labor  Unions  (CELU)  in  favor  of  the 
government-controlled  All-Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (AETU)  in  De- 
cember 1975  further  disillusioned  the  revolution's  early  support- 
ers. Numerous  officials  originally  associated  with  the  revolution 
fled  the  country. 

The  Mengistu  Regime  and  Its  Impact 

The  transition  from  imperial  to  military  rule  was  turbulent.  In 
addition  to  increasing  political  discontent,  which  was  particularly 
intense  in  the  late  1970s,  the  Derg  faced  powerful  insurgencies  and 
natural  calamities  throughout  the  1980s. 

Political  Struggles  Within  the  Government 

Following  the  establishment  of  his  supremacy  through  the  elimi- 
nation of  Tafari  Banti,  Mengistu  declared  himself  Derg  chairman 
in  February  1977  and  set  about  consolidating  his  power.  However, 
several  internal  and  external  threats  prevented  Mengistu  from  doing 
this.  Various  insurgent  groups  posed  the  most  serious  threat  to  the 
Derg.  The  EPRP  challenged  the  Derg's  control  of  the  revolution 
itself  by  agitating  for  a  broad-based  democratic  government  run 
by  civilians,  not  by  the  military.  In  February  1977,  the  EPRP 
initiated  terrorist  attacks — known  as  the  White  Terror — against 
Derg  members  and  their  supporters.  This  violence  immediately 
claimed  at  least  eight  Derg  members,  plus  numerous  Derg  sup- 
porters, and  soon  provoked  a  government  counteraction — the  Red 
Terror  (see  Glossary).  During  the  Red  Terror,  which  lasted  until 
late  1978,  government  security  forces  systematically  hunted  down 
and  killed  suspected  EPRP  members  and  their  supporters,  espe- 
cially students.  Mengistu  and  the  Derg  eventually  won  this  latest 
struggle  for  control  of  the  Ethiopian  revolution,  at  a  cost  to  the 


58 


Historical  Setting 


EPRP  of  thousands  of  its  members  and  supporters  imprisoned, 
dead,  or  missing. 

Also  slated  for  destruction  was  MEISON,  proscribed  in  mid- 
1978.  In  coordination  with  the  government,  MEISON  had  or- 
ganized the  kebeles  and  the  peasant  associations  but  had  begun  to 
act  independently,  thus  threatening  Derg  dominance  of  local 
governments  throughout  the  country.  In  response  to  the  political 
vacuum  that  would  be  left  as  a  result  of  the  purging  of  MEISON, 
the  Derg  in  1978  promoted  the  union  of  several  existing  Marxist- 
Leninist  organizations  into  a  single  umbrella  group,  the  Union  of 
Ethiopian  Marxist-Leninist  Organizations  (whose  Amharic  acro- 
nym was  EMALEDEH).  The  new  organization's  duty  was  simi- 
lar to  that  of  MEISON — promoting  control  of  Ethiopian  socialism 
and  obtaining  support  for  government  policies  through  various  po- 
litical activities.  The  creation  of  EMALEDEH  symbolized  the  vic- 
tory of  the  Derg  in  finally  consolidating  power  after  having 
overcome  these  challenges  to  its  control  of  the  Ethiopian  revolution. 

War  in  the  Ogaden  and  the  Turn  to  the  Soviet  Union 

The  year  1977  saw  the  emergence  of  the  most  serious  external 
challenge  to  the  revolutionary  regime  that  had  yet  materialized. 
The  roots  of  the  conflict  lay  with  Somali  irredentism  and  the  desire 
of  the  Somali  government  of  Mahammad  Siad  Barre  to  annex  the 
Ogaden  area  of  Ethiopia.  Somalia's  instrument  in  this  process  was 
the  Western  Somali  Liberation  Front  (WSLF),  a  Somali  guerrilla 
organization,  which  by  February  1977  had  begun  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  Derg's  political  problems  as  well  as  its  troubles  in  Eritrea 
to  attack  government  positions  throughout  the  Ogaden  (see  The 
Somali,  ch.  5).  The  Somali  government  provided  supplies  and  logis- 
tics support  to  the  WSLF.  Through  the  first  half  of  the  year,  the 
WSLF  made  steady  gains,  penetrating  and  capturing  large  parts 
of  the  Ogaden  from  the  Dire  Dawa  area  southward  to  the  Kenya 
border. 

The  increasingly  intense  fighting  culminated  in  a  series  of  ac- 
tions around  Jijiga  in  September,  at  which  time  Ethiopia  claimed 
that  Somalia's  regular  troops,  the  Somali  National  Army  (SNA), 
were  supporting  the  WSLF.  In  response,  the  Somali  government 
admitted  giving  "moral,  material,  and  other  support"  to  the 
WSLF.  Following  a  mutiny  of  the  Ethiopian  garrison  at  Jijiga,  the 
town  fell  to  the  WSLF.  The  Mengistu  regime,  desperate  for  help, 
turned  to  the  Soviet  Union,  its  ties  to  its  former  military  supplier, 
the  United  States,  having  foundered  in  the  spring  over  the  Derg's 
poor  human  rights  record.  The  Soviet  Union  had  been  supplying 
equipment  and  some  advisers  for  months.  When  the  Soviet  Union 


59 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

continued  to  aid  Ethiopia  as  a  way  of  gaining  influence  in  the  coun- 
try, Somalia,  which  until  then  had  been  a  Soviet  client,  responded 
by  abrogating  its  Treaty  of  Friendship  and  Cooperation  with 
Moscow  and  by  expelling  all  Soviet  advisers. 

The  Soviet  turnaround  immediately  affected  the  course  of  the 
war.  Starting  in  late  November,  massive  Soviet  military  assistance 
began  to  pour  into  Ethiopia,  with  Cuban  troops  deploying  from 
Angola  to  assist  the  Ethiopian  units.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  17,000 
Cubans  had  arrived  and,  with  Ethiopian  army  units,  halted  the 
WSLF  momentum.  On  February  13,  1978,  Mogadishu  dispatched 
the  SNA  to  assist  the  WSLF,  but  the  Somali  forces  were  driven 
back  toward  the  border.  After  the  Ethiopian  army  recapture  of  Jijiga 
in  early  March,  the  Somali  government  decided  to  withdraw  its 
forces  from  the  Ogaden,  leaving  the  Ethiopian  army  in  control  of 
the  region.  However,  in  the  process  of  eliminating  the  WSLF  threat, 
Addis  Ababa  had  become  a  military  client  of  Moscow  and  Havana, 
a  situation  that  had  significant  international  repercussions  and  that 
resulted  in  a  major  realignment  of  power  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 

Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  Insurgencies 

After  1974,  insurgencies  appeared  in  various  parts  of  the  coun- 
try, the  most  important  of  which  were  centered  in  Eritrea  and 
Tigray  (see  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4;  External  and  Internal  Oppo- 
nents, ch.  5).  The  Eritrean  problem,  inherited  from  Haile  Selassie's 
regime,  was  a  matter  of  extensive  debate  within  the  Derg.  It  was 
a  dispute  over  policy  toward  Eritrea  that  resulted  in  the  death  of 
the  PMAC's  first  leader,  General  Aman,  an  Eritrean,  on  Novem- 
ber 23,  1974,  so-called  "Bloody  Saturday."  Hereafter,  the  Derg 
decided  to  impose  a  military  settlement  on  the  Eritean  Liberation 
Front  (ELF)  and  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF). 
Attempts  to  invade  rebel-held  Eritrea  failed  repeatedly,  and  by 
mid- 1978  the  insurgent  groups  controlled  most  of  the  countryside 
but  not  major  towns  such  as  Keren,  Mitsiwa,  Aseb,  and  a  few  other 
places.  Despite  large  commitments  of  arms  and  training  from  com- 
munist countries,  the  Derg  failed  to  suppress  the  Eritrean  rebellion. 

By  the  end  of  1976,  insurgencies  existed  in  all  of  the  country's 
fourteen  administrative  regions  (the  provinces  were  officially 
changed  to  regions  in  1974  after  the  revolution).  In  addition  to  the 
Eritrean  secessionists,  rebels  were  highly  active  in  Tigray,  where 
the  Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  (TPLF),  formed  in  1975,  was 
demanding  social  justice  and  self-determination  for  all  Ethiopians. 
In  the  southern  regions  of  Bale,  Sidamo,  and  Arsi,  the  Oromo 
Liberation  Front  (OLF)  and  the  Somali  Abo  Liberation  Front 
(SALF),  active  since  1975,  had  gained  control  of  parts  of  the 


60 


Famine  scene  at  Korem,  in  Welo 
Courtesy  United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (Bert  Demmers) 


61 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

countryside,  and  the  WSLF  was  active  in  the  Ogaden.  Under  Ali 
Mirah's  leadership,  the  Afar  Liberation  Front  (ALF)  began  armed 
operations  in  March  1975,  and  in  1976  it  coordinated  some  ac- 
tions with  the  EPLF  and  the  TPLF. 

Despite  an  influx  of  military  aid  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  its 
allies  after  1977,  the  government's  counterinsurgency  effort  in 
Eritrea  progressed  haltingly.  After  initial  government  successes  in 
retaking  territory  around  the  major  towns  and  cities  and  along  some 
of  the  principal  roads  in  1978  and  1979,  the  conflict  ebbed  and 
flowed  on  an  almost  yearly  basis.  Annual  campaigns  by  the  Ethio- 
pian armed  forces  to  dislodge  the  EPLF  from  positions  around  the 
northern  town  of  Nakfa  failed  repeatedly  and  proved  costly  to  the 
government.  Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  insurgents  began  to  cooper- 
ate, the  EPLF  providing  training  and  equipment  that  helped  build 
the  TPLF  into  a  full-fledged  fighting  force.  Between  1982  and  1985, 
the  EPLF  and  the  Derg  held  a  series  of  talks  to  resolve  the  Eritrean 
conflict,  but  to  no  avail.  By  the  end  of  1987,  dissident  organiza- 
tions in  Eritrea  and  Tigray  controlled  at  least  90  percent  of  both 
regions. 

Social  and  Political  Changes 

Although  Addis  Ababa  quickly  developed  a  close  relationship 
with  the  communist  world,  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies  had  con- 
sistent difficulties  working  with  Mengistu  and  the  Derg.  These 
difficulties  were  largely  the  result  of  the  Derg's  preoccupation  with 
internal  matters  and  the  promotion  of  Ethiopian  variations  on  what 
Marxist-Leninist  theoreticians  regarded  as  preordained  steps  on 
the  road  to  a  socialist  state.  The  Derg's  status  as  a  military  govern- 
ment was  another  source  of  concern.  Ethiopia's  communist  allies 
made  an  issue  of  the  need  to  create  a  civilian  "vanguard  party" 
that  would  rule  a  people's  republic.  In  a  move  geared  to  ensure 
continued  communist  support,  the  Derg  formed  the  Commission 
to  Organize  the  Party  of  the  Workers  of  Ethiopia  (GOPWE)  in 
December  1979,  with  Mengistu  as  its  chairman.  At  COPWE's  sec- 
ond congress,  in  January  1983,  it  was  announced  that  COPWE 
would  be  replaced  by  a  genuine  communist  party.  Accordingly, 
the  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia  (WPE)  was  proclaimed  on  Septem- 
ber 12,  1984  (see  The  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia,  ch.  4). 

About  the  same  time,  work  continued  on  a  new  constitution  for 
the  planned  people's  republic.  On  February  1,  1987,  the  proposed 
constitution,  which  had  been  submitted  to  the  public  for  popular 
debate  and  changes  the  prior  year,  was  finally  put  to  a  vote.  Al- 
though the  central  government  claimed  an  81  percent  approval  of 
the  new  constitution  (with  modifications  proposed  by  the  public), 


62 


Historical  Setting 


the  circumstances  of  its  review  and  approval  by  the  general  pop- 
ulation were  called  into  question.  The  task  of  publicizing  the 
document  had  been  entrusted  to  the  kebeles  and  the  peasant 
associations — organizations  that  had  a  state  security  mission  as  well 
as  local  administrative  duties.  Observers  noted  that  little  commen- 
tary or  dissent  was  possible  under  such  circumstances.  Additional 
criticism  included  the  charge  that  the  proposed  constitution  was 
not  designed  to  address  or  even  understand  Ethiopian  needs;  in 
fact,  many  noted  that  the  constitution  was  "almost  an  abridged 
translation  of  the  Soviet  Constitution  of  1977"  (see  The  1987  Con- 
stitution, ch.  4). 

Ethiopia  in  Crisis:  Famine  and  Its  Aftermath,  1984-88 

Toward  the  end  of  the  1980s,  several  crises,  including  famine, 
economic  collapse,  and  military  setbacks  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray, 
confronted  the  Derg.  In  addition,  as  democratic  reform  swept 
through  the  communist  world,  it  became  evident  that  Addis  Ababa 
no  longer  could  rely  on  its  allies  for  support. 

Famine  and  Economic  Collapse 

Ethiopia  had  never  recovered  from  the  previous  great  famine 
of  the  early  1970s,  which  was  the  result  of  a  drought  that  affected 
most  of  the  countries  of  the  African  Sahel.  The  late  1970s  again 
brought  signs  of  intensifying  drought.  By  the  early  1980s,  large 
numbers  of  people  in  central  Eritrea,  Tigray,  Welo,  and  parts  of 
Gonder  and  Shewa  were  beginning  to  feel  the  effects  of  renewed 
famine. 

By  mid- 1984  it  was  evident  that  another  drought  and  resulting 
famine  of  major  proportions  had  begun  to  affect  large  parts  of  north- 
ern Ethiopia.  Just  as  evident  was  the  government's  inability  to  pro- 
vide relief.  The  almost  total  failure  of  crops  in  the  north  was 
compounded  by  fighting  in  and  around  Eritrea,  which  hindered 
the  passage  of  relief  supplies.  Although  international  relief  organi- 
zations made  a  major  effort  to  provide  food  to  the  affected  areas, 
the  persistence  of  drought  and  poor  security  conditions  in  the  north 
resulted  in  continuing  need  of  as  well  as  hazards  for  famine  relief 
workers.  In  late  1985,  another  year  of  drought  was  forecast,  and 
by  early  1986  the  famine  had  spread  to  parts  of  the  southern  high- 
lands, with  an  estimated  5.8  million  people  dependent  on  relief  food. 
Exacerbating  the  problem  in  1986  were  locust  and  grasshopper 
plagues. 

The  government's  inability  or  unwillingness  to  deal  with  the 
1984-85  famine  provoked  universal  condemnation  by  the  inter- 
national community.  Even  many  supporters  of  the  Ethiopian  regime 


63 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

opposed  its  policy  of  withholding  food  shipments  to  rebel  areas. 
The  combined  effects  of  famine  and  internal  war  had  by  then  put 
the  nation's  economy  into  a  state  of  collapse. 

The  primary  government  response  to  the  drought  and  famine 
was  the  decision  to  uproot  large  numbers  of  peasants  who  lived 
in  the  affected  areas  in  the  north  and  to  resettle  them  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  country.  In  1985  and  1986,  about  600,000  people  were 
moved,  many  forcibly,  from  their  home  villages  and  farms  by  the 
military  and  transported  to  various  regions  in  the  south.  Many 
peasants  fled  rather  than  allow  themselves  to  be  resettled;  many 
of  those  who  were  resettled  sought  later  to  return  to  their  native 
regions.  Several  human  rights  organizations  claimed  that  tens  of 
thousands  of  peasants  died  as  a  result  of  forced  resettlement  (see 
The  Politics  of  Resettlement,  ch.  4). 

Another  government  plan  involved  villagization,  which  was  a 
response  not  only  to  the  famine  but  also  to  the  poor  security  situ- 
ation. Beginning  in  1985,  peasants  were  forced  to  move  their 
homesteads  into  planned  villages,  which  were  clustered  around 
water,  schools,  medical  services,  and  utility  supply  points  to  facilitate 
distribution  of  those  services.  Many  peasants  fled  rather  than  sub- 
mit to  relocation,  which  in  general  proved  highly  unpopular.  Ad- 
ditionally, the  government  in  most  cases  failed  to  provide  the 
promised  services.  Far  from  benefiting  agricultural  productivity, 
the  program  caused  a  decline  in  food  production.  Although  tem- 
porarily suspended  in  1986,  villagization  was  subsequently  resumed. 

Government  Defeats  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray 

In  March  1988,  the  EPLF  initiated  one  of  its  most  successful 
military  campaigns  by  striking  at  Ethiopian  army  positions  on  the 
Nakfa  front  north  of  the  town  of  Afabet,  where  the  Derg  had  es- 
tablished a  base  for  a  new  attack  against  the  insurgents.  In  two 
days  of  fighting,  the  Eritrean  rebels  annihilated  three  Ethiopian 
army  divisions,  killing  or  capturing  at  least  18,000  government 
troops  and  seizing  large  amounts  of  equipment,  including  armor 
and  artillery.  Subsequently,  the  town  of  Afabet,  with  its  military 
stores,  fell  to  the  EPLF,  which  then  threatened  all  remaining  Ethio- 
pian military  concentrations  in  northern  Eritrea. 

The  Ethiopian  army's  defeat  in  Eritrea  came  after  setbacks  during 
the  preceding  week  in  Tigray.  Using  the  same  tactics  employed 
by  the  EPLF,  the  TPLF  preempted  a  pending  Ethiopian  offensive 
in  Tigray  with  a  series  of  attacks  on  government  positions  there 
in  early  March.  A  government  attack  against  central  Tigray  failed 
disastrously,  with  four  Ethiopian  army  divisions  reportedly  de- 
stroyed and  most  of  their  equipment  captured.  In  early  April,  the 


64 


Historical  Setting 


TPLF  took  the  town  of  Adigrat  in  northern  Tigray,  cutting  the 
main  road  link  between  Addis  Ababa  and  Eritrea. 

The  March  1988  defeats  of  the  Ethiopian  army  were  catastrophic 
in  terms  of  their  magnitude  and  crippling  in  their  effect  on  govern- 
ment strategy  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray.  The  capability  of  government 
forces  in  both  regions  collapsed  as  a  result.  Subsequently,  Ethio- 
pian government  control  of  Eritrea  was  limited  to  the  Keren- 
Asmera-Mitsiwa  triangle  and  the  port  of  Aseb  to  the  southeast. 
The  TPLF's  victories  in  Tigray  ultimately  led  to  its  total  conquest 
by  the  rebels  and  the  expansion  of  the  insurgency  into  Gonder, 
Welo,  and  even  parts  of  Shewa  the  following  year. 

The  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia 

On  September  10,  1987,  after  thirteen  years  of  military  rule, 
the  nation  officially  became  the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of 
Ethiopia  (PDRE)  under  a  new  constitution  providing  for  a  civilian 
government.  The  PMAC  was  abolished,  and  in  June  of  that  year 
Ethiopians  had  elected  the  National  Shengo  (National  Assembly), 
a  parliament.  Despite  these  changes,  members  of  the  now-defunct 
Derg  still  ran  the  government  but  with  different  titles.  For  exam- 
ple, the  National  Shengo  elected  Mengistu  to  be  the  country's  first 
civilian  president;  he  remained,  however,  the  WPE's  general  secre- 
tary. Other  high-ranking  Derg  and  WPE  members  received  simi- 
lar posts  in  the  new  government,  including  the  Derg  deputy 
chairman,  Fikre-Selassie  Wogderes,  who  became  Ethiopia's  prime 
minister,  and  Fisseha  Desta,  WPE  deputy  general  secretary,  who 
became  the  country's  vice  president. 

Despite  outward  appearances,  little  changed  in  the  way  the  coun- 
try was  actually  run.  Old  Derg  members  still  were  in  control,  and 
the  stated  mission  of  the  WPE  allowed  continued  close  supervi- 
sion by  the  government  over  much  of  the  urban  population.  Despite 
the  granting  of  "autonomy"  to  Eritrea,  Aseb,  Tigray,  Dire  Dawa, 
and  the  Ogaden,  the  1987  constitution  was  ambiguous  on  the  ques- 
tion of  self-determination  for  national  groups  such  as  the  Eritreans, 
except  within  the  framework  of  the  national  government.  And 
although  the  constitution  contained  provisions  to  protect  the  rights 
of  citizens,  the  power  of  peasant  associations  and  kebeles  was  left 
intact. 

Changes  in  Soviet  Policy  and  New  International  Horizons 

The  Soviet  Union  changed  policies  toward  its  allies  among  the 
developing  countries  in  the  late  1980s;  these  changes  appeared  likely 
to  result  in  significant  reductions  in  its  hitherto  extensive  sup- 
port of  Ethiopia.  By  then  it  was  evident  that  the  Soviet-Ethiopian 


65 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

relationship  had  undergone  a  fundamental  reorientation.  The 
change  was  partly  the  result  of  the  new  directions  in  Soviet  for- 
eign policy  undertaken  by  Mikhail  Gorbachev.  But  other  contribut- 
ing factors  were  the  strong  undercurrents  of  Soviet  disapproval  of 
Ethiopia's  conduct  of  its  internal  affairs  and  of  Addis  Ababa's  in- 
ability to  make  effective  use  of  the  aid  that  Moscow  sent.  The  im- 
plications of  this  changed  policy  for  Ethiopia  were  likely  to  be 
profound,  inasmuch  as  continued  high  levels  of  military  assistance 
were  vital  to  the  pursuit  of  Mengistu's  military  solution  in  Eritrea 
as  well  as  to  the  fight  against  other  internal  insurgencies. 

*    *  * 

The  literature  on  Ethiopia  is  relatively  rich  and  deep,  the  con- 
sequence of  Ethiopia's  indigenous  written  tradition,  mostly  in  Gi'iz, 
and  of  the  extraordinary  interest  in  the  country  shown  by  Europe- 
ans over  the  last  five  centuries.  For  the  early  historical  period,  two 
works  are  fundamental:  Aksum:  An  African  Civilisation  of  Late  Antiq- 
uity by  Stuart  Munro-Hay,  and  Church  and  State  in  Ethiopia,  1270- 
1 527 'by  Taddesse  Tamrat.  Each  is  the  best  work  on  its  respective 
subject  and  period  and  likely  to  remain  so  for  the  foreseeable  fu- 
ture. In  nearly  the  same  league  is  John  Spencer  Trimingham's  Islam 
in  Ethiopia,  a  standard  work  and  a  starting  point  for  the  history, 
culture,  and  religion  of  Ethiopia's  Muslim  peoples,  despite  its  1952 
publishing  date. 

A  comprehensive,  up-to-date  survey  of  the  country  remains  to 
be  written,  but  an  older  work  by  Edward  Ullendorff,  The  Ethiopians: 
An  Introduction  to  Country  and  People  (1973),  is  still  quite  useful,  despite 
its  emphasis  on  the  northern,  Semitic-speaking  population.  As  a 
supplement,  the  reader  might  consult  the  relevant  chapters  in  the 
eight  volumes  of  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  edited  by  J.D.  Fage 
and  Roland  Oliver.  Two  books  by  Mordechai  Abir,  Ethiopia  and 
the  Red  Sea  and  Ethiopia:  The  Era  of  the  Princes,  cover  subjects  or  peri- 
ods otherwise  almost  totally  neglected,  including  trade,  commerce, 
and  the  contributions  of  the  Oromo.  Richard  K.  Pankhurst's  Eco- 
nomic History  of  Ethiopia,  1800-1935  contains  a  wealth  of  informa- 
tion on  a  wide  variety  of  topics,  as  do  other  works  by  this  scholar. 
Two  books  by  Donald  N.  Levine,  Wax  and  Gold  and  Greater  Ethio- 
pia: The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society,  provide  stimulating  and 
at  times  provocative  analyses  of  Amhara,  Tigray,  and  (in  the  lat- 
ter volume)  Oromo  cultures  but  should  be  consulted  only  after 
basics  in  the  field  have  been  mastered.  A  highly  useful  reference 
is  the  Historical  Dictionary  of  Ethiopia  by  Chris  Prouty  and  Eugene 


66 


Historical  Setting 


Rosenfeld,  which  provides  a  lexicon  of  Ethiopian  topics  as  well  as 
an  extensive  bibliography. 

Bahru  Zewde's^4  History  of  Modern  Ethiopia,  1855-1974  surveys 
the  last  century  of  imperial  rule,  with  an  emphasis  on  the  twen- 
tieth century.  Two  biographical  histories  on  nineteenth-century  em- 
perors are  recommended:  Yohannes  IV  of  Ethiopia  by  Zewde  Gabre- 
Sellassie,  and  The  Life  and  Times  of  Menelik  II 'by  Harold  G.  Marcus. 
The  following  are  among  outstanding  works  on  the  reign  of  Haile 
Selassie:  George  W.  Baer's  The  Coming  of  the  Italian- Ethiopian  War; 
Christopher  S.  Clapham's  Haile  Selassie's  Government;  John  Markakis's 
Ethiopia:  Anatomy  of  a  Traditional  Polity;  and  Harold  G.  Marcus's 
Haile  Selassie  I:  The  Formative  Years,  1892-1936.  A  new  work  by 
Gebru  Tareke,  Ethiopia:  Power  and  Protest,  analyzes  three  major 
peasant  revolts  and  the  response  of  the  imperial  government. 

An  excellent  discussion  of  contemporary  Ethiopia  that  treats  both 
the  Haile  Selassie  era  and  the  revolutionary  years  is  Ethiopia:  Tran- 
sition and  Development  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  by  Mulatu  Wubneh  and 
Yohannis  Abate.  Among  the  best  sources  on  the  military  govern- 
ment and  its  policies  are  Marina  and  David  Ottaway's  Ethiopia: 
Empire  in  Revolution,  still  the  basic  source  on  the  early  years  of  the 
Derg,  and  Christopher  S.  Clapham's  Transformation  and  Continuity 
in  Revolutionary  Ethiopia.  Among  periodicals,  the  Journal  of  African 
History  and  Northeast  African  Studies  are  particularly  valuable  for  schol- 
arly coverage  of  Ethiopia  and  the  Horn.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


67 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Traditional  council  of  elders 


THE  ETHIOPIAN  PEOPLE  ARE  ETHNICALLY  heteroge- 
neous, comprising  more  than  100  groups,  each  speaking  a  dialect 
of  one  of  more  than  seventy  languages.  The  Amhara,  Oromo,  and 
Tigray  are  the  largest  groups.  With  the  accession  of  Menelik  II 
to  the  throne  in  1889,  the  ruling  class  consisted  primarily  of  the 
Amhara,  a  predominantly  Christian  group  that  constitutes  about 
30  percent  of  the  population  and  occupies  the  central  highlands. 
The  Oromo,  who  constitute  about  40  percent  of  the  population, 
are  half  Orthodox  Christians  and  half  Muslims  whose  traditional 
alliance  with  the  Amhara  in  Shewa  included  participation  in  pub- 
lic administration  and  the  military.  Predominantly  Christian,  the 
Tigray  occupy  the  far  northern  highlands  and  make  up  12  to  15 
percent  of  the  population.  They  or  their  Eritrean  neighbors  had 
been  battling  the  government  for  nearly  three  decades  and  by  1 99 1 
had  scored  many  battlefield  successes. 

According  to  estimates  based  on  the  first  census  (1984),  Ethio- 
pia's population  was  51.7  million  in  1990  and  was  projected  to  reach 
more  than  67  million  by  the  year  2000.  About  89  percent  of  the 
people  live  in  rural  areas,  large  sectors  of  which  have  been  ravaged 
by  drought,  famine,  and  war.  The  regime  of  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam 
embarked  on  controversial  villagization  and  resettlement  programs 
to  combat  these  problems.  Villagization  involved  the  relocation  of 
rural  people  into  villages,  while  resettlement  moved  people  from 
drought-prone  areas  in  the  north  to  sparsely  populated  and  resource- 
rich  areas  in  the  south  and  southwest.  The  international  community 
criticized  both  programs  for  poor  implementation  and  the  conse- 
quent toll  in  human  lives. 

The  traditional  social  system  in  the  northern  highlands  was,  in 
general,  based  on  landownership  and  tenancy.  After  conquest, 
Menelik  II  (reigned  1889-1913)  imposed  the  north's  imperial  sys- 
tem on  the  conquered  south.  The  government  appointed  many  Am- 
hara administrators,  who  distributed  land  among  themselves  and 
relegated  the  indigenous  peasants  to  tenancy.  The  1974  revolution 
swept  away  this  structure  of  ethnic  and  class  dominance.  The  Provi- 
sional Military  Administrative  Council  (PMAC ;  also  known  as  the 
Derg — see  Glossary)  appointed  representatives  of  the  Workers' 
Party  of  Ethiopia  and  the  national  system  of  peasant  associations  to 
implement  land  reform.  Additionally,  the  government  organized 
urban  centers  into  a  hierarchy  of  urban  dwellers'  associations 
(kebeles — see  Glossary).  Despite  these  reforms,  however,  dissatisfaction 


71 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

and  covert  opposition  to  the  regime  continued  in  the  civilian  and 
military  sectors. 

Prior  to  the  1974  revolution,  the  state  religion  of  Ethiopia  had 
been  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christianity,  whose  adherents  comprised 
perhaps  40  to  50  percent  of  the  population,  including  a  majority 
of  the  Amhara  and  Tigray.  Islam  was  the  faith  of  about  40  per- 
cent of  the  population,  including  large  segments  (perhaps  half)  of 
the  Oromo  and  the  people  inhabiting  the  contiguous  area  of  the 
northern  and  eastern  lowlands,  such  as  the  Beja,  Saho,  Afar,  and 
Somali.  Adherents  of  indigenous  belief  systems  were  scattered 
among  followers  of  the  two  major  religions  and  could  be  found  in 
more  concentrated  numbers  on  the  western  peripheries  of  the  high- 
lands. In  line  with  its  policy  that  all  religions  were  equally  legiti- 
mate, the  regime  in  1975  declared  several  Muslim  holy  days  national 
holidays,  in  addition  to  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  holidays  that  were 
already  observed. 

Declaring  education  one  of  its  priorities,  the  PMAC  expanded 
the  education  system  at  the  primary  level,  especially  in  small  towns 
and  rural  areas,  which  had  never  had  modern  schools  during  the 
imperial  era.  The  new  policy  relocated  control  and  operation  of 
primary  and  secondary  schools  to  the  subregion  iawrajd)  level,  where 
officials  reoriented  curricula  to  emphasize  agriculture,  handicrafts, 
commercial  training,  and  other  practical  subjects.  The  regime  also 
embarked  on  a  national  literacy  campaign. 

The  regime's  health  policy  included  expansion  of  rural  health 
services,  promotion  of  community  involvement,  self-reliance  in 
health  activities,  and  emphasis  on  the  prevention  and  control  of 
disease.  As  with  education,  the  PMAC  decentralized  health  care 
administration  to  the  local  level  as  part  of  its  effort  to  encourage 
community  involvement.  Despite  an  emphasis  on  rural  health  ser- 
vices, less  than  a  third  of  the  total  population  had  effective  health 
coverage  in  mid- 1991. 

Physical  Setting 

Ethiopia  occupies  most  of  the  Horn  of  Africa.  The  country  covers 
approximately  1,221,900  square  kilometers  and  shares  frontiers  with 
Sudan,  Kenya,  Somalia,  and  Djibouti.  Its  Red  Sea  coastline  is 
about  960  kilometers  long.  The  major  physiographic  features  are 
a  massive  highland  complex  of  mountains  and  plateaus  divided  by 
the  Great  Rift  Valley  and  surrounded  by  lowlands  along  the  periph- 
ery. The  diversity  of  the  terrain  is  fundamental  to  regional  varia- 
tions in  climate,  natural  vegetation,  soil  composition,  and  settiement 
patterns. 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Boundaries:  International  and  Administrative 

Except  for  the  Red  Sea  coastline,  only  limited  stretches  of  the 
country's  borders  are  defined  by  natural  features.  Most  of  Ethio- 
pia's borders  have  been  delimited  by  treaty.  The  Ethiopia-Somalia 
boundary  has  long  been  an  exception,  however.  One  of  its  sectors 
has  never  been  definitively  demarcated,  thanks  to  disputed  interpre- 
tations of  1897  and  1908  treaties  signed  by  Britain,  Italy,  and  Ethio- 
pia. This  sector  was  delimited  by  a  provisional  "Administrative 
Line"  that  was  defined  by  a  1950  Anglo-Ethiopian  agreement,  when 
the  United  Nations  (UN)  established  Somalia  as  a  trust  territory. 
After  it  became  independent  in  1960,  Somalia  refused  to  recog- 
nize any  of  the  border  treaties  signed  between  Ethiopia  and  the 
former  colonial  powers.  The  Somali  government  also  demanded 
a  revision  of  the  boundary  that  would  ensure  self-determination 
for  Somali  living  in  the  Ogaden.  Consequently,  the  frontier  be- 
came the  scene  of  recurrent  violence  and  open  warfare  between 
Ethiopia  and  Somalia. 

Topography  and  Drainage 

Much  of  the  Ethiopian  landmass  is  part  of  the  East  African  Rift 
Plateau.  Ethiopia  has  a  general  elevation  ranging  from  1,500  to 
3,000  meters  above  sea  level.  Interspersed  on  the  landscape  are 
higher  mountain  ranges  and  cratered  cones,  the  highest  of  which, 
at  4,620  meters,  is  Ras  Dashen  Terara  northeast  of  Gonder.  The 
northernmost  part  of  the  plateau  is  Ethiopia's  historical  core  and 
is  the  location  of  the  ancient  kingdom  of  Aksum.  The  national  cap- 
ital of  Addis  Ababa  ("New  Flower")  is  located  in  the  center  of 
the  country  on  the  edge  of  the  central  plateau  (see  fig.  6). 

Millennia  of  erosion  have  produced  steep  valleys,  in  places  1 ,600 
meters  deep  and  several  kilometers  wide.  In  these  valleys  flow  rapid 
streams  unsuitable  for  navigation  but  possessing  potential  as  sources 
of  hydroelectric  power  and  water  for  irrigation. 

The  highlands  that  comprise  much  of  the  country  are  often 
referred  to  as  the  Ethiopian  Plateau  and  are  usually  thought  of  as 
divided  into  northern  and  southern  parts.  In  a  strict  geographical 
sense,  however,  they  are  bisected  by  the  Great  Rift  Valley  into  the 
northwestern  highlands  and  the  southeastern  highlands,  each  with 
associated  lowlands.  The  northwestern  highlands  are  considera- 
bly more  extensive  and  rugged  and  are  divided  into  northern  and 
southern  sections  by  the  valley  of  the  Abay  (Blue  Nile). 

North  of  Addis  Ababa,  the  surface  of  the  plateau  is  interspersed 
with  towering  mountains  and  deep  chasms  that  create  a  variety 
of  physiography,  climate,  and  indigenous  vegetation.  The  plateau 


73 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

also  contains  mountain  ranges  such  as  the  Chercher  and  Aranna. 
Given  the  rugged  nature  of  these  mountains  and  the  surrounding 
tableland,  foreigners  receive  a  false  impression  of  the  country's 
topography  when  Ethiopians  refer  to  the  landform  as  a  plateau. 
Few  of  these  peaks'  surfaces  are  flat  except  for  a  scattering  of  level- 
topped  mountains  known  to  Ethiopians  as  ambas. 

Southwest  of  Addis  Ababa,  the  plateau  also  is  rugged,  but  its 
elevation  is  slightly  lower  than  in  its  northern  section.  To  the 
southeast  of  Addis  Ababa,  beyond  the  Ahmar  and  Mendebo  moun- 
tain ranges  and  the  higher  elevations  of  the  southeastern  highlands, 
the  plateau  slopes  gently  toward  the  southeast.  The  land  here  is 
rocky  desert  and,  consequently,  is  sparsely  populated. 

The  Great  Rift  Valley  forms  a  third  physiographic  region.  This 
extensive  fault  system  extends  from  the  Jordan  Valley  in  the  Mid- 
dle East  to  the  Zambezi  River's  Shire  tributary  in  Mozambique. 
The  segment  running  through  central  Ethiopia  is  marked  in  the 
north  by  the  Denakil  Depression  and  the  coastal  lowlands,  or  Afar 
Plain,  as  they  are  sometimes  known.  To  the  south,  at  approximately 
9°  north  latitude,  the  Great  Rift  Valley  becomes  a  deep  trench  slic- 
ing through  the  plateau  from  southwest  to  northeast,  its  width  aver- 
aging fifty  kilometers.  The  southern  half  of  the  Ethiopian  segment 
of  the  valley  is  dotted  by  a  chain  of  relatively  large  lakes.  Some 
hold  fresh  water,  fed  by  small  streams  from  the  east;  others  con- 
tain salts  and  minerals. 

In  the  north,  the  Great  Rift  Valley  broadens  into  a  funnel-shaped 
saline  plain.  The  Denakil  Depression,  a  large,  triangle-shaped  basin 
that  in  places  is  115  meters  below  sea  level,  is  one  of  the  hottest 
places  on  earth.  On  the  northeastern  edge  of  the  depression,  mari- 
time hills  border  a  hot,  arid,  and  treeless  strip  of  coastal  land  six- 
teen to  eighty  kilometers  wide.  These  coastal  hills  drain  inland  into 
saline  lakes,  from  which  commercial  salt  is  extracted.  Along  the 
Red  Sea  coast  are  the  Dahlak  Islands,  which  are  sparsely  inhabited. 

In  contrast  with  the  plateau's  steep  scarps  along  the  Great  Rift 
Valley  and  in  the  north,  the  western  and  southwestern  slopes 
descend  somewhat  less  abruptly  and  are  broken  more  often  by  river 
exits.  Between  the  plateau  and  the  Sudanese  border  in  the  west 
lies  a  narrow  strip  of  sparsely  populated  tropical  lowland  that  be- 
longs politically  to  Ethiopia  but  whose  inhabitants  are  related  to 
the  people  of  Sudan  (see  Ethiopia's  Peoples,  this  ch.).  These  trop- 
ical lowlands  on  the  periphery  of  the  plateau,  particularly  in  the 
far  north  and  along  the  western  frontier,  contrast  markedly  with 
the  upland  terrain. 

The  existence  of  small  volcanoes,  hot  springs,  and  many  deep 
gorges  indicates  that  large  segments  of  the  landmass  are  still 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


geologically  unstable.  Numerous  volcanoes  occur  in  the  Denakil 
area,  and  hot  springs  and  steaming  fissures  are  found  in  other  north- 
ern areas  of  the  Great  Rift  Valley.  A  line  of  seismic  faults  extends 
along  the  length  of  Eritrea  and  the  Denakil  Depression,  and  small 
earthquakes  have  been  recorded  in  the  area  in  recent  times. 

All  of  Ethiopia's  rivers  originate  in  the  highlands  and  flow  out- 
ward in  many  directions  through  deep  gorges.  Most  notable  of  these 
is  the  Blue  Nile,  the  country's  largest  river.  It  and  its  tributaries 
account  for  two-thirds  of  the  Nile  River  flow  below  Khartoum  in 
Sudan.  Because  of  the  general  westward  slope  of  the  highlands, 
many  large  rivers  are  tributaries  of  the  Nile  system,  which  drains 
an  extensive  area  of  the  central  portion  of  the  plateau.  The  Blue 
Nile,  the  Tekeze,  and  the  Baro  are  among  them  and  account  for 
about  half  of  the  country's  water  outflow.  In  the  northern  half  of 
the  Great  Rift  Valley  flows  the  Awash  River,  on  which  the  govern- 
ment has  built  several  dams  to  generate  power  and  irrigate  major 
commercial  plantations.  The  Awash  flows  east  and  disappears  in 
the  saline  lakes  near  the  boundary  with  Djibouti.  The  southeast 
is  drained  by  the  Genale  and  Shebele  rivers  and  their  tributaries, 
and  the  southwest  is  drained  by  the  Omo. 

Climate 

Diverse  rainfall  and  temperature  patterns  are  largely  the  result 
of  Ethiopia's  location  in  Africa's  tropical  zone  and  the  country's 
varied  topography.  Altitude-induced  climatic  conditions  form  the 
basis  for  three  environmental  zones — cool,  temperate,  and  hot — 
which  have  been  known  to  Ethiopians  since  antiquity  as  the  dega, 
the  weina  dega,  and  the  holla,  respectively. 

The  cool  zone  consists  of  the  central  parts  of  the  western  and 
eastern  sections  of  the  northwestern  plateau  and  a  small  area  around 
Harer.  The  terrain  in  these  areas  is  generally  above  2,400  meters 
in  elevation;  average  daily  highs  range  from  near  freezing  to  16°C, 
with  March,  April,  and  May  the  warmest  months.  Throughout 
the  year,  the  midday  warmth  diminishes  quickly  by  afternoon,  and 
nights  are  usually  cold.  During  most  months,  light  frost  often  forms 
at  night  and  snow  occurs  at  the  highest  elevations. 

Lower  areas  of  the  plateau,  between  1,500  and  2,400  meters  in 
elevation,  constitute  the  temperate  zone.  Daily  highs  there  range 
from  16°C  to  30°C. 

The  hot  zone  consists  of  areas  where  the  elevation  is  lower  than 
1,500  meters.  This  area  encompasses  the  Denakil  Depression,  the 
Eritrean  lowlands,  the  eastern  Ogaden,  the  deep  tropical  valleys 
of  the  Blue  Nile  and  Tekeze  rivers,  and  the  peripheral  areas  along 
the  Sudanese  and  Kenyan  borders.  Daytime  conditions  are  torrid, 


77 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

and  daily  temperatures  vary  more  widely  here  than  in  the  other 
two  regions.  Although  the  hot  zone's  average  annual  daytime  tem- 
perature is  about  27°C,  midyear  readings  in  the  arid  and  semi- 
arid  areas  along  the  Red  Sea  coast  often  soar  to  50  °C  and  to  more 
than  40 °C  in  the  arid  Ogaden.  Humidity  is  usually  high  in  the 
tropical  valleys  and  along  the  seacoast. 

Variations  in  precipitation  throughout  the  country  are  the  result 
of  differences  in  elevation  and  seasonal  changes  in  the  atmospheric 
pressure  systems  that  control  the  prevailing  winds.  Because  of  these 
factors,  several  regions  receive  rainfall  throughout  most  of  the  year, 
but  in  other  areas  precipitation  is  seasonal.  In  the  more  arid  low- 
lands, rainfall  is  always  meager. 

In  January  the  high  pressure  system  that  produces  monsoons 
in  Asia  crosses  the  Red  Sea.  Although  these  northeast  trade  winds 
bring  rain  to  the  coastal  plains  and  the  eastern  escarpment  in 
Eritrea,  they  are  essentially  cool  and  dry  and  provide  little  moisture 
to  the  country's  interior.  Their  effect  on  the  coastal  region,  however, 
is  to  create  a  Mediterranean-like  climate.  Winds  that  originate  over 
the  Atiantic  Ocean  and  blow  across  Equatorial  Africa  have  a  marked 
seasonal  effect  on  much  of  Ethiopia.  The  resulting  weather  pat- 
tern provides  the  highlands  with  most  of  its  rainfall  during  a  pe- 
riod that  generally  lasts  from  mid-June  to  mid-September. 

The  main  rainy  season  is  usually  preceded  in  April  and  May 
by  converging  northeast  and  southeast  winds  that  produce  a  brief 
period  of  light  rains,  known  as  balg.  These  rains  are  followed  by 
a  short  period  of  hot  dry  weather,  and  toward  the  middle  of  June 
violent  thunderstorms  occur  almost  daily.  In  the  southwest,  precipi- 
tation is  more  evenly  distributed  and  also  more  abundant.  The  rela- 
tive humidity  and  rainfall  decrease  generally  from  south  to  north 
and  also  in  the  eastern  lowlands.  Annual  precipitation  is  heaviest 
in  the  southwest,  scant  in  the  Great  Rift  Valley  and  the  Ogaden, 
and  negligible  in  the  Denakil  Depression. 

Population 

Size,  Distribution,  and  Growth 

Ethiopia's  population  was  estimated  at  51.7  million  in  1990.  Ac- 
cording to  the  nation's  only  census,  conducted  in  1984,  Ethiopia's 
population  was  about  42  million.  But  the  census  was  far  from  com- 
prehensive. The  rural  areas  of  Eritrea  and  Tigray  were  excluded 
because  of  hostilities.  In  addition,  the  population  in  the  southern 
parts  of  Bale  and  Harerge  could  only  be  estimated  because  of  the 
prevalence  of  pastoral  nomadism. 

The  1984  census  revealed  that  Ethiopia's  population  was  about 
89  percent  rural,  and  this  percentage  did  not  appear  to  have  changed 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


by  the  late  1980s  (see  table  2,  Appendix).  This  segment  included 
many  nomadic  and  seminomadic  peoples.  The  Ethiopian  popula- 
tion always  has  been  predominantly  rural,  engaging  in  sedentary 
agricultural  activities  such  as  the  cultivation  of  crops  and  livestock- 
raising  in  the  highlands.  In  the  lowlands,  the  main  activities  tradi- 
tionally have  been  subsistence  farming  by  seminomadic  groups  and 
seasonal  grazing  of  livestock  by  nomadic  people. 

The  distribution  of  Ethiopia's  population  generally  is  related  to 
altitude,  climate,  and  soil.  These  physical  factors  explain  the  con- 
centration of  population  in  the  highlands,  which  are  endowed  with 
moderate  temperatures,  rich  soil,  and  adequate  rainfall.  About  14 
percent  of  the  population  lives  in  areas  above  2,400  meters  (cool 
climatic  zone),  about  75  percent  between  1,500  and  2,400  meters 
(temperate  zone),  and  only  1 1  percent  below  1 ,500  meters  (hot  cli- 
matic zone),  although  the  hot  zone  encompasses  more  than  half 
of  Ethiopia's  territory.  Localities  with  elevations  above  3,000  meters 
and  below  1,500  meters  are  sparsely  populated,  the  first  because 
of  cold  temperatures  and  rugged  terrain,  which  limit  agricultural 
activity,  and  the  second  because  of  high  temperatures  and  low  rain- 
fall, except  in  the  west  and  southwest. 

Although  census  data  indicated  that  overall  density  was  about 
thirty-seven  people  per  square  kilometer,  density  varied  from  over 
100  per  square  kilometer  for  Shewa  and  seventy-five  for  Arsi  to 
fewer  than  ten  in  the  Ogaden,  Bale,  the  Great  Rift  Valley,  and 
the  western  lowlands  adjoining  Sudan.  There  was  also  great  varia- 
tion among  the  populations  of  the  various  administrative  regions 
(see  table  3,  Appendix). 

In  1990  officials  estimated  the  birth  rate  at  forty-five  births  per 
1,000  population  and  the  total  fertility  rate  (the  average  number 
of  children  that  would  be  born  to  a  woman  during  her  lifetime) 
at  about  seven  per  1 ,000  population.  Census  findings  indicated  that 
the  birth  rate  was  higher  in  rural  areas  than  in  urban  areas.  Ethio- 
pia's birth  rate,  high  even  among  developing  countries,  is  explained 
by  early  and  universal  marriage,  kinship  and  religious  beliefs  that 
generally  encourage  large  families,  a  resistance  to  contraceptive 
practices,  and  the  absence  of  family  planning  services  for  most  of 
the  population.  Many  Ethiopians  believe  that  families  with  many 
children  have  greater  financial  security  and  are  better  situated  to 
provide  for  their  elderly  members. 

In  the  absence  of  a  national  population  policy  or  the  provision 
of  more  than  basic  health  services,  analysts  consider  the  high  birth 
rate  likely  to  continue.  A  significant  consequence  of  the  high  birth 
rate  is  that  the  population  is  young;  children  under  fifteen  years 
of  age  made  up  nearly  50  percent  of  the  population  in  1989  (see 


79 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUP 


3      2       10      12  3 
POPULATION  IN  MILLIONS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Nations,  Demographic  Yearbook,  1989,  New  York, 
1991,  166-67. 


Figure  7.  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1989 

fig.  7).  Thus,  a  large  segment  of  the  population  was  dependent 
and  likely  to  require  heavy  expenditures  on  education,  health,  and 
social  services. 

In  1990  the  death  rate  was  estimated  at  fifteen  per  1,000  popu- 
lation (down  from  18.1  per  1,000  in  1984).  This  also  was  a  very 
high  rate  but  typical  of  poor  developing  countries.  The  high  death 
rate  was  a  reflection  of  the  low  standard  of  living,  poor  health  con- 
ditions, inadequate  health  facilities,  and  high  rates  of  infant  mor- 
tality (116  per  1,000  live  births  in  1990;  139  per  1,000  in  1984) 
and  child  mortality.  Additional  factors  contributing  to  the  high  death 
rate  include  infectious  diseases,  poor  sanitation,  malnutrition,  and 
food  shortages.  Children  are  even  more  vulnerable  to  such  de- 
privations. In  Ethiopia  half  of  the  total  deaths  involve  children 
under  five  years  of  age.  In  addition,  drought  and  famine  in  the 
1980s,  during  which  more  than  7  million  people  needed  food  aid, 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


interrupted  the  normal  evolution  of  mortality  and  fertility  and  un- 
doubtedly left  many  infants  and  children  with  stunted  physical  and 
mental  capabilities.  Life  expectancy  in  1990  was  estimated  at  forty- 
nine  years  for  males  and  fifty-two  years  for  females. 

Generally,  birth  rates,  infant  mortality  rates,  and  overall  mor- 
tality rates  were  lower  in  urban  areas  than  in  rural  areas.  As  of 
1990,  urban  residents  had  a  life  expectancy  of  just  under  fifty-three 
years,  while  rural  residents  had  a  life  expectancy  of  forty-eight  years. 
The  more  favorable  statistics  for  urban  areas  can  be  explained  by 
the  wider  availability  of  health  facilities,  greater  knowledge  of  sani- 
tation, easier  access  to  clean  water  and  food,  and  a  slightly  higher 
standard  of  living. 

There  has  been  a  steady  increase  in  the  population  growth  rate 
since  1960.  Based  on  1984  census  data,  population  growth  was  es- 
timated at  about  2.3  percent  for  the  1960-70  period,  2.5  percent 
for  the  1970-80  period,  and  2.8  percent  for  the  1980-85  period. 
Population  projections  compiled  in  1988  by  the  Central  Statistical 
Authority  (CSA)  projected  a  2.83  percent  growth  rate  for  1985-90 
and  a  2.96  percent  growth  rate  for  1990-95.  This  would  result  in 
a  population  of  57.9  million  by  1995.  Estimated  annual  growth 
for  1995-2000  varied  from  3.03  percent  to  3.16  percent.  Popula- 
tion estimates  ranged  from  67.4  million  to  67.8  million  by  the  year 
2000.  The  CSA  projected  that  Ethiopia's  population  could  range 
from  104  million  to  115  million  by  the  year  2015.  The  Interna- 
tional Development  Association  (IDA)  provided  a  more  optimis- 
tic estimate.  Based  on  the  assumption  of  a  gradual  fertility  decline, 
such  as  might  be  caused  by  steady  economic  development  without 
high  priority  given  to  population  and  family  planning  programs, 
the  population  growth  rate  might  fall  to  about  2.8  percent  per 
annum  in  1995-2000  and  to  2.1  percent  in  2010-15,  resulting  in 
a  population  of  93  million  in  2015. 

Analysts  believed  that  reducing  the  population  growth  rate  was 
a  pressing  need,  but  one  that  could  only  be  addressed  through  a 
persistent  and  comprehensive  nationwide  effort  over  the  long  term. 
As  of  mid- 1991,  the  Ethiopian  regime  had  shown  no  commitment 
to  such  a  program. 

Variations  in  population  growth  existed  among  administrative 
regions.  Kefa,  Sidamo,  and  Shewa  had  the  highest  average  growth 
rates  for  the  1967-84  period,  ranging  from  4.2  percent  for  Kefa 
to  3.5  percent  for  Sidamo  and  Shewa.  Whereas  Shewa' s  popula- 
tion growth  was  the  result  of  Addis  Ababa's  status  as  the  adminis- 
trative, commercial,  and  industrial  center  of  Ethiopia,  Kefa  and 
Sidamo  grew  primarily  because  of  agricultural  and  urban  develop- 
ment. The  population  in  administrative  regions  such  as  Harerge, 


81 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Welo,  and  Tigray,  which  had  been  hard  hit  by  famine  and  insur- 
rection, grew  at  slow  rates:  1.3  percent,  1  percent,  and  0.2  per- 
cent, respectively.  Generally,  the  population  of  most  central  and 
western  administrative  regions  grew  more  rapidly  than  did  the 
population  of  the  eastern  and  northern  administrative  regions. 

Urbanization 

Ethiopia  was  under-urbanized,  even  by  African  standards.  In 
the  late  1980s,  only  about  11  percent  of  the  population  lived  in 
urban  areas  of  at  least  2,000  residents.  There  were  hundreds  of 
communities  with  2,000  to  5,000  people,  but  these  were  primarily 
extensions  of  rural  villages  without  urban  or  administrative  func- 
tions. Thus,  the  level  of  urbanization  would  be  even  lower  if  one 
used  strict  urban  structural  criteria.  Ethiopia's  relative  lack  of  ur- 
banization is  the  result  of  the  country's  history  of  agricultural  self- 
sufficiency,  which  has  reinforced  rural  peasant  life.  The  slow  pace 
of  urban  development  continued  until  the  1935  Italian  invasion. 
Urban  growth  was  fairly  rapid  during  and  after  the  Italian  occu- 
pation of  1936-41 .  Urbanization  accelerated  during  the  1960s,  when 
the  average  annual  growth  rate  was  about  6.3  percent.  Urban 
growth  was  especially  evident  in  the  northern  half  of  Ethiopia,  where 
most  of  the  major  towns  are  located. 

Addis  Ababa  was  home  to  about  35  percent  of  the  country's 
urban  population  in  1987.  Another  7  percent  resided  in  Asmera, 
the  second  largest  city.  Major  industrial,  commercial,  governmen- 
tal, educational,  health,  and  cultural  institutions  were  located  in 
these  two  cities,  which  together  were  home  to  about  2  million  peo- 
ple, or  one  out  of  twenty-five  Ethiopians.  Nevertheless,  many  small 
towns  had  emerged  as  well.  In  1970  there  were  171  towns  with 
populations  of  2,000  to  20,000;  this  total  had  grown  to  229  by  1980. 

The  period  1967-75  saw  rapid  growth  of  relatively  new  urban 
centers  (see  table  4,  Appendix).  The  population  of  six  towns — Akaki, 
Arba  Minch,  Awasa,  Bahir  Dar,  Jijiga,  and  Shashemene — more 
than  tripled,  and  that  of  eight  others  more  than  doubled.  Awasa, 
Arba  Minch,  Metu,  and  Goba  were  newly  designated  capitals  of 
administrative  regions  and  important  agricultural  centers.  Awasa, 
capital  of  Sidamo,  had  a  lakeshore  site  and  convenient  location  on 
the  Addis  Ababa-Nairobi  highway.  Bahir  Dar  was  a  newly  planned 
city  on  Lake  Tana  and  the  site  of  several  industries  and  a  polytech- 
nic institute.  Akaki  and  Aseb  were  growing  into  important  industrial 
towns,  while  Jijiga  and  Shashemene  had  become  communications 
and  service  centers. 

Urban  centers  that  experienced  moderate  growth  tended  to  be 
more  established  towns,  such  as  Addis  Ababa,  Dire  Dawa,  and 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Debre  Zeyit.  A  few  old  provincial  capitals,  such  as  Gonder,  also 
experienced  moderate  growth,  but  others,  such  as  Harer,  Dese, 
Debre  Markos,  and  Jima,  had  slow  growth  rates  because  of  com- 
petition from  larger  cities.  By  the  1990s,  Harer  was  being  over- 
shadowed by  Dire  Dawa,  Dese  by  Kembolcha,  and  Debre  Markos 
by  Bahir  Dar. 

Overall,  the  rate  of  urban  growth  declined  from  1975  to  1987. 
With  the  exception  of  Aseb,  Arba  Minch,  and  Awasa,  urban  centers 
grew  an  average  of  about  40  percent  over  that  twelve-year  period. 
This  slow  growth  is  explained  by  several  factors.  Rural-to-urban 
migration  had  been  largely  responsible  for  the  rapid  expansion  dur- 
ing the  1967-75  period,  whereas  natural  population  growth  may 
have  been  mostly  responsible  for  urban  expansion  during  the 
1975-84  period.  The  1975  land  reform  program  provided  incen- 
tives and  opportunities  for  peasants  and  other  potential  migrants 
to  stay  in  rural  areas.  Restrictions  on  travel,  lack  of  employment, 
housing  shortages,  and  social  unrest  in  some  towns  during  the 
1975-80  period  also  contributed  to  a  decline  in  rural-to-urban 
migration. 

Although  the  male  and  female  populations  were  about  equal, 
men  outnumbered  women  in  rural  areas.  More  women  migrated 
to  the  urban  centers  for  a  variety  of  reasons,  including  increased 
job  opportunities. 

As  a  result  of  intensified  warfare  in  the  period  1988-91 ,  all  urban 
centers  received  a  large  influx  of  population,  resulting  in  severe 
overcrowding,  shortages  of  housing  and  water,  overtaxed  social 
services,  and  unemployment.  In  addition  to  beggars  and  maimed 
persons,  the  new  arrivals  comprised  large  numbers  of  young  peo- 
ple. These  included  not  only  primary  and  secondary  school  stu- 
dents but  also  an  alarming  number  of  orphans  and  street  children, 
estimated  at  well  over  100,000.  Although  all  large  towns  shared 
in  this  influx,  Addis  Ababa,  as  the  national  capital,  was  most  af- 
fected. This  situation  underscored  the  huge  social  problems  that 
the  Mengistu  regime  had  neglected  for  far  too  long. 

Resettlement  and  Villagization 

Drought  and  famine  have  been  frequent  occurrences  in  Ethio- 
pia. In  fact,  it  was  the  imperial  government's  attempt  to  hide  the 
effects  of  the  1973-74  famine  that  aroused  world  indignation  and 
eventually  contributed  to  Haile  Selassie  I's  demise  (see  The  Es- 
tablishment of  the  Derg,  ch.  1).  Between  1984  and  1986,  drought 
and  famine  again  hit  Ethiopia  and  may  have  claimed  as  many  as 
1  million  lives  and  threatened  nearly  8  million  more  (see  The  Pol- 
itics of  Drought  and  Famine,  ch.  4).  Even  worse  disaster  was  averted 


83 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

when  the  international  community  mounted  a  massive  effort  to 
airlift  food  and  medical  supplies  to  famine  victims. 

The  government  embarked  on  forced  resettlement  and  villagi- 
zation  in  the  mid-1980s  as  part  of  a  national  program  to  combat 
drought,  avert  famine,  and  increase  agricultural  productivity. 
Resettlement,  the  regime's  long-term  solution  to  the  drought 
problem,  involved  the  permanent  relocation  of  about  1.5  million 
people  from  the  drought-prone  areas  of  the  north  to  the  south  and 
southwest,  where  population  was  relatively  sparse  and  so-called 
virgin,  arable  land  was  plentiful  (see  Government  Rural  Programs, 
ch.  3;  The  Politics  of  Resettlement,  ch.  4). 

Development  specialists  agreed  on  the  need  for  resettlement  of 
famine  victims  in  Ethiopia,  but  once  the  process  had  begun,  there 
was  widespread  criticism  that  resettlement  was  poorly  planned  and 
haphazardly  executed  and  thus  increased  the  number  of  famine 
deaths.  Moreover,  critics  charged  that  the  government  forcibly  relo- 
cated peasants,  in  the  process  breaking  up  thousands  of  families. 
Thousands  also  died  of  malaria  and  sleeping  sickness  because  of 
poor  sanitation  and  inadequate  health  care  in  newly  settled  areas. 
A  Paris-based  international  doctors'  organization,  Doctors  Without 
Borders  (Medecins  sans  Frontieres),  estimated  that  the  forced  reset- 
tlement and  mass  deportation  of  peasants  for  purposes  of  resettle- 
ment endangered  the  lives  of  300,000  because  of  shortages  of  food, 
water,  and  medicine.  Other  international  organizations  accused 
the  Ethiopian  government  of  moving  peasants  to  resettlement  areas 
without  adequate  preparation  of  such  basic  items  as  housing,  water, 
seeds,  and  tools.  Because  of  widespread  criticism,  the  Mengistu 
regime  temporarily  halted  the  resettlement  program  in  mid- 1986 
after  600,000  people  had  been  relocated,  but  the  program  resumed 
in  November  1987. 

Some  sources  voiced  suspicion  that  the  regime's  primary  mo- 
tive in  resettlement  was  to  depopulate  the  northern  areas  where 
it  faced  insurgencies.  Resettlement,  the  argument  went,  would 
reduce  the  guerrillas'  base  of  support.  But  this  argument  did  not 
take  into  account  the  strength  of  the  Tigray  People's  Liberation 
Front  (TPLF)  (see  The  Tigrayan  Movement,  ch.  4;  The  Tigray, 
ch.-5).  Another  Western  objection  to  the  resettlement  program  re- 
lated to  the  long-term  government  policy  concerning  peasant  farms. 
Western  countries,  on  whose  support  the  resettlement  program  de- 
pended, did  not  want  to  sponsor  a  plan  in  which  recruits  labored 
for  communist-style  collectives  and  state  farms. 

The  villagization  program,  the  regime's  plan  to  transform  rural 
society,  started  in  earnest  in  January  1985  (see  The  Politics  of  Vil- 
lagization, ch.  4).  If  completed,  the  program  might  have  uprooted 


84 


Cornfields  surround  a  village  in  Ansokia  Valley,  350  kilometers 

north  of  Addis  Ababa. 
Courtesy  World  Vision  (Bruce  Brander) 

and  relocated  more  than  30  million  peasants  over  a  nine-year  period. 
The  regime's  rationale  for  the  program  was  that  the  existing  ar- 
rangement of  dispersed  settlements  made  it  difficult  to  provide  social 
services  and  to  use  resources,  especially  land  and  water,  efficiently. 
The  relocation  of  the  peasants  into  larger  villages  (with  forty  to 
300  families,  or  200  to  2,500  people)  would  give  rural  people  bet- 
ter access  to  amenities  such  as  agricultural  extension  services, 
schools,  clinics,  water,  and  electricity  cooperative  services  and  would 
strengthen  local  security  and  the  capacity  for  self-defense.  Improved 
economic  and  social  services  would  promote  more  efficient  use  of 
land  and  other  natural  resources  and  would  lead  to  increased 
agricultural  production  and  a  higher  standard  of  living. 

More  specifically,  the  Ethiopian  government  perceived  villagiza- 
tion  as  a  way  to  hasten  agricultural  collectivization.  Most  peasant 
farming  in  Ethiopia  was  still  based  on  a  traditional  smallholding  sys- 
tem, which  produced  90  percent  of  farm  output,  employed  about 
80  percent  of  the  labor  force,  and  accounted  for  94  percent  of  cul- 
tivable land  in  1985.  State  farms  and  cooperative  farms  were  respon- 
sible for  only  4  percent  and  2  percent,  respectively,  of  cultivated  land. 

By  the  end  of  1988,  more  than  12  million  people  had  been  relo- 
cated in  villages  in  twelve  of  the  fourteen  administrative  regions. 


85 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


The  exceptions  were  Eritrea  and  Tigray,  where  insurgents  were 
waging  war  against  the  regime.  In  1989  the  total  reached  about 
13  million  people.  Some  regions  implemented  villagization  more 
rapidly  than  others.  In  Harerge,  where  the  program  began  in  1985, 
more  than  90  percent  of  the  population  had  been  relocated  to  vil- 
lages by  early  1987,  whereas  in  Gonder  and  Welo  the  program  was 
just  beginning.  In  Ilubabor  more  than  1  million  peasants  had  been 
relocated  to  2,106  villages  between  December  1985  and  March 
1989.  Nomadic  peoples  and  shifting  cultivators  were  not  affected 
by  villagization. 

The  verdict  on  villagization  was  not  favorable.  Thousands  of  peo- 
ple fled  to  avoid  villagization;  others  died  or  lived  in  deplorable 
conditions  after  being  forcibly  resettled.  Moreover,  the  program's 
impact  on  rural  peasants  and  their  social  and  economic  well-being 
remained  to  be  assessed.  There  were  indications  that  in  the  short 
term,  villagization  may  have  further  impoverished  an  already  poor 
peasantry.  The  services  that  were  supposed  to  be  delivered  in  new 
villages,  such  as  water,  electricity,  health  care  clinics,  schools,  trans- 
portation, and  agricultural  extension  services,  were  not  being 
provided  because  the  government  lacked  the  necessary  resources. 
Villagers  therefore  resorted  to  improvised  facilities  or  reverted  to 
old  ways  of  doing  things.  Villagization  also  reduced  the  produc- 
tive capacity  of  the  peasants  by  depriving  them  of  the  opportunity 
for  independent  organization  and  action.  By  increasing  the  dis- 
tance peasants  had  to  travel  to  work  on  their  land  and  graze  their 
cattle,  villagization  wasted  time  and  effort.  Denied  immediate  ac- 
cess to  their  fields,  the  peasants  were  also  prevented  from  guard- 
ing their  crops  from  birds  and  other  wild  animals. 

In  the  long  run,  analysts  believed  that  villagization  would  be 
counterproductive  to  a  rational  land  use  system  and  would  be 
damaging  ecologically.  Concentrating  people  in  a  central  area 
would,  in  time,  intensify  pressure  on  available  water  and  grazing 
and  lead  to  a  decline  in  soil  fertility  and  to  a  poorer  peasantry. 
The  ecological  damage  could  be  averted  by  the  application  of  cap- 
ital investment  in  infrastructure,  such  as  irrigation  and  land- 
intensive  agricultural  technology  and  strict  application  of  land  ro- 
tation to  avert  overgrazing.  But  resources  were  unavailable  for  such 
agricultural  investment. 

The  most  bitter  critics  of  villagization,  such  as  Survival  Inter- 
national, a  London-based  human  rights  organization,  argued  that 
the  Mengistu  regime's  noneconomic  objective  in  villagization  was 
control  of  the  population.  Larger  villages  would  facilitate  the  re- 
gime's control  over  the  population,  cut  rebels  off  from  peasant  sup- 
port, and  discourage  dissident  movements.  Indeed,  some  observers 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


believed  that  the  reason  for  starting  villagization  in  Harerge  and 
Bale  was  nothing  less  than  to  suppress  support  of  the  Oromo  Liber- 
ation Front  (OLF). 

After  the  government's  announcement  of  the  new  economic  pol- 
icy in  March  1990,  peasants  were  given  the  freedom  to  join  or  aban- 
don cooperatives  and  to  bring  their  produce  to  market.  Hence,  the 
Mengistu  regime  abandoned  one  of  the  strong  rationales  for  vil- 
lagization and,  in  effect,  the  whole  program  as  well. 

Refugees,  Drought,  and  Famine 

In  Ethiopia,  a  predominantly  rural  society,  the  life  of  peasants 
is  rooted  in  the  land,  from  which  they  eke  out  a  meager  existence. 
Through  the  ages,  they  have  faced  frequent  natural  disasters,  armed 
conflict,  and  political  repression,  and  in  the  process  they  have 
suffered  hunger,  societal  disruption,  and  death. 

Periodic  crop  failures  and  losses  of  livestock  often  occur  when 
seasonal  rains  fail  or  when  unusually  heavy  storms  cause  widespread 
flooding.  Pastoral  nomads,  who  move  seasonally  in  search  of  water 
and  grazing,  often  are  trapped  when  drought  inhibits  rejuvena- 
tion of  the  denuded  grasslands,  which  their  overgrazing  produces. 
During  such  times,  a  family's  emergency  food  supplies  diminish 
rapidly,  and  hunger  and  starvation  become  commonplace  until 
weather  conditions  improve  and  livestock  herds  are  subsequently 
rejuvenated.  For  centuries,  this  has  been  the  general  pattern  of  life 
for  most  Ethiopian  peasants;  the  insurgent  movements  in  Eritrea, 
Tigray,  and  the  Ogaden  have  only  served  to  exacerbate  the  effects 
of  these  natural  calamities  (see  The  Eritreans;  The  Tigray;  The 
Somali,  ch.  5). 

A  drought  that  began  in  1969  continued  as  dry  weather  brought 
disaster  to  the  Sahel  and  swept  eastward  through  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
By  1973  the  attendant  famine  had  threatened  the  lives  of  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  Ethiopian  nomads,  who  had  to  leave  their  home 
grounds  and  struggle  into  Somalia,  Djibouti,  Kenya,  and  Sudan, 
seeking  relief  from  starvation.  By  the  end  of  1973,  famine  had 
claimed  the  lives  of  about  300,000  peasants  of  Tigray  and  Welo, 
and  thousands  more  had  sought  relief  in  Ethiopian  towns  and 
villages. 

After  assuming  power  in  1974,  the  military  regime  embarked 
on  a  program  to  improve  the  condition  of  peasants,  but  famine 
and  hunger  continued  despite  this  effort,  which  was  supplemented 
by  substantial  foreign  assistance.  Moreover,  the  escalation  of  the 
military  campaign  against  the  insurgent  movements  in  Eritrea, 
Tigray,  and  the  Ogaden  forced  thousands  of  Ethiopians  to  flee  into 
neighboring  countries. 


87 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  1977-78  Ogaden  War  and  the  1978  drought  in  eastern  Ethio- 
pia forced  large  numbers  of  people  across  the  southeastern  fron- 
tier into  Somalia.  After  the  defeat  of  Somali  forces  in  the  Ogaden, 
the  government  launched  a  counteroffensive  against  Eritrean  guer- 
rillas, and  several  hundred  thousand  Ethiopians  sought  refuge  in 
Sudan.  Meanwhile,  in  the  Ogaden,  international  relief  agencies 
estimated  the  number  of  refugees  entering  Somali  refugee  camps 
at  more  than  1,000  a  day.  Most  were  women  and  children,  and 
many  suffered  from  dehydration,  malnutrition,  and  diseases  such 
as  dysentery,  malaria,  and  tuberculosis.  There  were  more  than 
700,000  reported  refugees  scattered  in  twenty-six  makeshift  camps, 
where  the  absence  of  sanitation  and  inadequate  medical  assistance 
were  compounding  the  misery  created  by  the  food  shortages. 

By  mid- 1980  most  observers  considered  the  refugee  crisis  in  the 
Horn  of  Africa  to  be  the  world's  worst.  During  the  1980s,  the  cri- 
sis intensified,  as  2.5  million  people  in  the  region  abandoned  their 
homes  and  sought  asylum  in  neighboring  countries.  Although 
drought,  famine,  government  repression,  and  conflict  with  insur- 
gents were  the  principal  causes  of  large-scale  refugee  migrations, 
other  factors  such  as  resettlement  and  villagization  in  Ethiopia  and 
conflicts  in  southern  Sudan  and  northern  Somalia  also  generated 
refugees.  Sudan's  war  against  the  Sudanese  People's  Liberation 
Army  (SPLA)  forced  many  Sudanese  into  Ethiopia.  In  northern 
Somalia,  the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM)  had  been  fight- 
ing Somali  government  forces,  and  in  the  process  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  Somali  fled  into  Ethiopia. 

Several  factors  were  responsible  for  the  refugee  crisis  in  Ethio- 
pia. The  repressive  Mengistu  regime  was  ruthless  in  its  treatment 
of  both  real  and  imagined  opponents  (see  Human  Rights,  ch.  5). 
During  the  so-called  Red  Terror  (see  Glossary)  of  1977-78,  gov- 
ernment security  forces  killed  thousands  of  students  and  urban 
professionals.  Because  human  rights  violations  characterized  the 
government's  policy  toward  dissidents,  there  was  a  constant  exo- 
dus of  young  and  educated  people.  The  regime  also  found  itself 
engaged  in  continuous  civil  war  with  one  or  more  of  the  insurgent 
groups,  which  had  a  devastating  impact  on  the  people,  the  land, 
and  the  economy.  The  fighting  not  only  generated  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  refugees  but  also  displaced  thousands  of  other  people  from 
their  farms  and  villages.  Forcible  villagization  and  resettlement  also 
generated  refugees.  In  Harerge  alone,  the  forced  imposition  of  vil- 
lagization prompted  33,000  people  to  flee  to  Somalia. 

Famine  also  contributed  to  Ethiopia's  refugee  crises.  The  1984- 
85  famine  resulted  in  the  death  or  displacement  of  hundreds  of 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


thousands  of  people  within  Ethiopia  and  forced  about  100,000  into 
Somalia,  10,000  into  Djibouti,  and  more  than  300,000  into  Sudan. 

In  1987  another  drought  threatened  5  million  people  in  Eritrea 
and  Tigray.  This  time,  however,  the  international  community  was 
better  prepared  to  get  food  to  the  affected  areas  in  time  to  prevent 
starvation  and  massive  population  movements.  However,  insur- 
gents belonging  to  the  TPLF  and  the  Eritrean  People's  Libera- 
tion Front  (EPLF)  attacked  convoys  carrying  food  supplies  or  denied 
them  access  to  rebel-held  areas  because  they  believed  the  govern- 
ment would  use  relief  convoys  to  cover  the  movement  of  military 
supplies.  The  consequence  was  more  deaths  and  more  refugees. 

International  relief  agencies  considered  the  1990  famine  more 
critical  because  of  the  scarcity  of  rain  after  1987.  Mitsiwa  was  one 
of  the  Eritrean  ports  where  ships  unloaded  food  and  medical  sup- 
plies for  distribution  to  famine  victims  in  Eritrea.  Following  the 
EPLF's  capture  of  Mitsiwa  in  February  1990  and  the  government's 
bombing  of  the  city  in  an  effort  to  dislodge  the  insurgents,  the  port 
was  out  of  action.  A  few  months  later,  however,  the  EPLF  and 
the  Ethiopian  government  reached  an  agreement  that  allowed  the 
port  to  reopen.  In  addition,  the  government  lost  control  of  Tigray 
in  early  1989  and  was  reluctant  to  allow  food  shipments  to  go 
through  rebel-held  territory  until  May  1990,  when  the  rebels,  the 
government,  the  UN,  and  donor  officials  agreed  to  move  grain  sup- 
plies from  Dese  to  Tigray.  Food  could  not  be  airlifted  into  Tigray 
because  fighting  had  destroyed  the  airport  in  Mekele,  capital  of 
Tigray.  Sudan  was  the  only  nation  through  which  food  shipments 
could  come  to  Tigray  and  Eritrea.  Both  the  Relief  Society  of  Tigray 
and  the  Eritrean  Relief  Association — arms  of  the  TPLF  and  EPLF, 
respectively — operated  overland  food  convoys  from  Sudan  to  Tigray 
and  Eritrea.  But  poor  road  conditions  and  the  fact  that  convoys 
had  to  operate  at  night  to  avoid  Ethiopian  air  force  attacks  prevented 
adequate  supplies  from  reaching  affected  regions.  Consequently, 
about  3  million  people  were  threatened  with  death  and  starvation 
in  Eritrea  and  Tigray. 

Disagreements  persist  concerning  the  number  of  Ethiopian  refu- 
gees in  Somalia  in  the  late  1980s.  A  UN  survey  estimated  the  num- 
ber of  Ethiopian  refugees  in  Somalia  at  450,000  to  620,000.  The 
United  States  Catholic  Relief  Services,  however,  estimated  that 
about  410,000  refugees  had  returned  to  Ethiopia,  leaving  about 
430,000  in  Somali  refugee  camps.  At  the  same  time,  more  than 
350,000  Somali  of  the  Isaaq  clan-family  (see  Glossary)  fled  north- 
ern Somalia  for  Ethiopia  after  mid- 1988.  Most  of  these  people  re- 
mained in  camps  run  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR). 


89 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Djibouti  was  home  to  about  45,000  Ethiopian  refugees  from  the 
Ogaden  by  late  1978.  These  people  had  fled  after  Somalia's  defeat 
in  the  Ogaden  War.  In  1983  the  UNHCR  began  a  repatriation 
program,  which  resulted  in  the  departure  of  15,000  former  refu- 
gees by  mid- 1984.  But  the  1984  drought  in  Ethiopia  brought  an 
additional  influx  of  10,000  refugees  into  Djibouti.  Slow,  steady 
repatriation  continued  through  1989,  by  which  time  there  were  only 
1,500  Ethiopian  refugees  in  Djibouti. 

A  large  influx  of  Ethiopian  refugees  into  Sudan  occurred  in  1978, 
during  the  escalation  of  the  conflict  between  Eritrean  insurgents 
and  the  Mengistu  regime.  The  influx  continued  into  1983,  when 
the  refugees  numbered  about  132,500.  The  1984  drought  and  fam- 
ine forced  160,000  refugees  into  Sudan  in  1984  and  more  than 
300,000  by  April  1985.  By  June  1985,  in  anticipation  of  summer 
rains  in  Tigray,  55,000  Tigrayans  left  Sudan,  followed  by  another 
65,000  in  1986,  but  only  a  small  percentage  of  refugee  Eritreans 
returned  to  Ethiopia. 

Ethiopia  also  had  been  host  to  refugees  from  southern  Sudan 
since  1983.  As  the  conflict  in  southern  Sudan  between  the  SPLA 
and  the  Sudanese  regime  intensified,  more  refugees  fled  into  western 
Ethiopia,  where  the  Sudanese  refugees  numbered  about  250,000 
in  early  1988  and  perhaps  400,000  by  early  1991. 

Ethiopia's  Peoples 

A  simple  ethnic  classification  of  Ethiopia's  population  is  not  feasi- 
ble. People  categorized  on  the  basis  of  one  criterion,  such  as  lan- 
guage, may  be  divided  on  the  basis  of  another.  Moreover, 
ethnicity — a  people's  insistence  that  it  is  distinctive  and  its  behavior 
on  the  basis  of  that,  insistence — is  a  subjective  response  to  both 
historical  experience  and  current  situations.  A  group  thus  distin- 
guished may  not  be  the  same  as  that  established  on  the  basis  of 
objective  criteria. 

Historically,  entities  defining  themselves  in  ethnic  terms  reacted 
or  adapted  to  Amhara  domination  in  various  ways.  Affecting  their 
adaptation  was  the  degree  of  Amhara  domination — in  some  areas 
Amhara  were  present  in  force,  while  in  others  they  established  a 
minimal  administrative  presence — and  the  extent  of  ethnic  mix- 
ing. In  some  areas,  historical  differences  and  external  conditions 
led  to  disaffection  and  attempts  at  secession,  as  in  multiethnic  Eritrea 
and  in  the  Ogaden.  In  others,  individuals  adapted  to  the  Amhara. 
Often  they  understood  the  change  not  so  much  as  a  process  of  be- 
coming Amhara  as  one  of  taking  on  an  Ethiopian  (and  urban) 
identity. 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Ethnic  Groups,  Ethnicity,  and  Language 

One  way  of  segmenting  Ethiopia's  population  is  on  the  basis  of 
language.  However,  the  numbers  in  each  category  are  uncertain, 
and  estimates  are  often  in  conflict.  At  present,  at  least  seventy  lan- 
guages are  spoken  as  mother  tongues,  a  few  by  many  millions, 
others  by  only  a  few  hundred  persons.  The  number  of  distinct  so- 
cial units  exceeds  the  number  of  languages  because  separate  com- 
munities sometimes  speak  the  same  language.  More  than  fifty  of 
these  languages — and  certainly  those  spoken  by  the  vast  majority 
of  Ethiopia's  people — are  grouped  within  three  families  of  the  Afro- 
Asiatic  super-language  family:  Semitic  (represented  by  the  branch 
called  Ethio-Semitic  and  by  Arabic),  Cushitic,  and  Omotic.  In  ad- 
dition, about  2  percent  of  the  population  speak  the  languages  of 
four  families — East  Sudanic,  Koman,  Berta,  and  Kunema — of  the 
Nilo-Saharan  super-language  family. 

Most  speakers  of  Ethio-Semitic  languages  live  in  the  highlands 
of  the  center  and  north.  Speakers  of  East  Cushitic  languages  are 
found  in  the  highlands  and  lowlands  of  the  center  and  south,  and 
other  Cushitic  speakers  live  in  the  center  and  north;  Omotic  speak- 
ers live  in  the  south;  and  Nilo-Saharan  speakers  live  in  the  south- 
west and  west  along  the  border  with  Sudan.  Of  the  four  main 
ethno-linguistic  groups  of  Ethiopia,  three — the  Amhara,  Tigray,  and 
Oromo — generally  live  in  the  highlands;  the  fourth — the  Somali — 
live  in  the  lowlands  to  the  southeast  (see  fig.  8). 

Ethio-Semitic  Language  Groups 

The  most  important  Ethio-Semitic  language  is  Amharic.  It  was 
the  empire's  official  language  and  is  still  widely  used  in  govern- 
ment and  in  the  capital  despite  the  Mengistu  regime's  changes  in 
language  policy.  Those  speaking  Amharic  as  a  mother  tongue  num- 
bered about  8  million  in  1970,  a  little  more  than  30  percent  of  the 
population.  A  more  accurate  count  might  show  them  to  constitute 
a  lesser  proportion.  The  total  number  of  Amharic  speakers,  includ- 
ing those  using  Amharic  as  a  second  language,  may  constitute  as 
much  as  50  percent  of  the  population. 

The  Amhara  are  not  a  cohesive  group,  politically  or  otherwise. 
From  the  perspective  of  many  Amhara  in  the  core  area  of  Gonder, 
Gojam,  and  western  Welo,  the  Amhara  of  Shewa  (who  constituted 
the  basic  ruling  group  under  Menelik  II  and  Haile  Selassie)  are 
not  true  descendants  of  the  northern  Amhara  and  the  Tigray  and 
heirs  to  the  ancient  kingdom  of  Aksum.  Regional  variations  not- 
withstanding, the  Amhara  do  not  exhibit  the  differences  of  religion 
and  mode  of  livelihood  characteristic  of  the  Oromo,  for  example, 


91 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Mulatu  Wubneh  and  Yohannis  Abate,  Ethiopia,  Boul- 
der, Colorado,  1988,  129;  and  M.  Lionel  Bender  (ed.),  The  Non-Semitic  Languages 
of  Ethiopia,  East  Lansing,  1976. 

Figure  8.  Principal  Ethno Unguis tic  Groups,  1991 

who  constitute  Ethiopia's  largest  linguistic  category.  With  a  few 
exceptions,  the  Amhara  are  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christians  and 
are  highland  plow  agriculturists. 

The  Tigray  (whose  language  is  Tigrinya)  constitute  the  second 
largest  category  of  Ethio-Semitic  speakers.  They  made  up  about 
14  percent  of  the  population  in  1970.  Like  the  Amhara,  the  Tigray 
are  chiefly  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christians,  and  most  are  plow 
agriculturists.  Despite  some  differences  in  dialect,  Tigray  believe, 
as  anthropologist  Dan  Franz  Bauer  has  noted,  "that  they  have  a 
common  tenuous  kinship  with  other  Tigray  regardless  of  their  place 
of  residence." 

The  number  of  persons  speaking  other  Ethio-Semitic  languages 
is  significantly  smaller  than  the  number  who  speak  Amharic  and 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Tigrinya.  Moreover,  unlike  the  Amhara  and  Tigray,  members  of 
other  Ethio- Semitic  groups  do  not  share  the  Aksumite  heritage  and 
Orthodox  Christianity,  and  their  traditional  economic  base  is  dif- 
ferent. 

Of  the  seven  Ethio-Semitic  languages  found  among  the  Gurage 
of  southern  Shewa,  four  are  single  tongues  and  three  are  dialect 
clusters,  each  encompassing  four  or  five  dialects.  All  correspond 
to  what  anthropologist  William  A.  Shack  calls  tribes,  which,  in  turn, 
consist  of  independent  clan  (see  Glossary)  chiefdoms.  Although  most 
people  accept  the  name  Gurage,  they  are  likely  to  specify  a  tribal 
name  in  addition. 

The  traditional  social  organization  and  religion  of  the  Gurage 
resemble  those  of  the  neighboring  East  Cushitic-speaking  Sidama 
and  related  peoples.  In  some  cases,  Orthodox  Christianity  or  Islam 
has  displaced  the  traditional  religious  system,  in  whole  or  in  part. 
The  Gurage  traditionally  depended  on  the  ensete  plant  (known  lo- 
cally as  false  banana)  rather  than  grain  for  their  staple  food  and 
used  the  hoe  rather  than  the  plow. 

In  1970  there  were  more  than  500,000  speakers  of  Gurage  tongues, 
but  no  single  group  numbered  more  than  100,000.  Substantial  num- 
bers, perhaps  15  to  20  percent  of  all  Gurage,  live  in  urban  centers, 
particularly  Addis  Ababa,  where  they  work  at  a  range  of  manual 
tasks  typically  avoided  by  the  Amhara  and  the  Tigray. 

In  1970  a  total  of  1 17,000  persons  were  estimated  to  speak  Tigre, 
which  is  related  to  Tigrinya;  but  that  figure  was  likely  an  under- 
estimate. The  ten  or  so  Eritrean  groups  or  clusters  of  groups  speak- 
ing the  language  do  not  constitute  an  ethnic  entity,  although  they 
share  an  adherence  to  Islam.  Locally,  people  traditionally  used  the 
term  Tigre  to  refer  to  what  has  been  called  the  serf  class,  as  op- 
posed to  the  noble  class,  in  most  Tigre-speaking  groups. 

Perhaps  the  most  numerous  of  the  Tigre-speaking  peoples  are 
the  Beni  Amir,  a  largely  pastoral  people  living  in  the  semiarid  region 
of  the  north  and  west  along  the  Sudanese  border.  A  large  number 
of  the  Beni  Amir  also  speak  Beja,  a  North  Cushitic  language.  Other 
groups  are,  in  part  at  least,  cultivators,  and  some,  who  live  along 
the  Red  Sea  coast  and  on  nearby  islands,  gain  some  of  their  liveli- 
hood from  fishing. 

Except  for  the  fact  that  the  distinction  between  nobles  and  serfs 
seems  at  one  time  to  have  been  pervasive,  little  is  known  of  early 
social  and  political  organization  among  these  groups  except  for  the 
Beni  Amir,  who  were  organized  in  a  tribal  federation  with  a  para- 
mount chief.  The  other  groups  seem  to  have  been  autonomous 
units. 


93 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


The  Hareri  are  of  major  historical  importance,  and  their  home 
was  in  that  part  of  Ethiopia  once  claimed  by  Somali  irredentists. 
The  Hareri  ("people  of  the  city")  established  the  walled  city  of 
Harer  as  early  as  the  thirteenth  century  A.D.  Harer  was  a  major 
point  from  which  Islam  spread  to  Somalia  and  then  to  Ethiopia. 

The  Argobba  consist  of  two  groups.  Living  on  the  hilly  slopes 
of  the  Great  Rift  Valley  escarpment  are  small  groups  of  Northern 
Argobba.  The  Southern  Argobba  live  southwest  of  Harer.  North- 
ern Argobba  villages,  interspersed  among  Amharic-  or  Oromo- 
speaking  communities,  stretch  from  an  area  at  roughly  the  lati- 
tude of  Addis  Ababa  to  southeasternmost  Welo.  Most  Argobba 
speak  either  Amharic  or  Oromo  in  addition  to  their  native  tongue. 

Cushitic  Language  Groups 

The  Oromo,  called  Galla  by  the  Amhara,  constitute  the  largest 
and  most  ubiquitous  of  the  East  Cushitic-speaking  peoples.  Oromo 
live  in  many  regions  as  a  result  of  expansion  from  their  homeland 
in  the  central  southern  highlands  beginning  in  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury. Although  they  share  a  common  origin  and  a  dialectically 
varied  language,  Oromo  groups  changed  in  a  variety  of  ways  with 
respect  to  economic  base,  social  and  political  organization,  and 
religion  as  they  adapted  to  different  physical  and  sociopolitical  en- 
vironments and  economic  opportunities. 

Even  more  uncertain  than  estimates  of  the  Amhara  population 
are  estimates  for  the  Oromo.  The  problem  stems  largely  from  the 
imperial  government's  attempts  to  downplay  the  country's  ethnic 
diversity.  Government  estimates  put  the  number  of  Oromo  speakers 
at  about  7  million  in  1970 — about  28  percent  of  the  total  popula- 
tion of  Ethiopia.  By  contrast,  the  OLF  claimed  there  were  18  mil- 
lion Oromo  in  1978,  well  over  half  of  a  total  population  roughly 
estimated  that  year  at  31  million.  Anthropologist  P.T. W.  Baxter, 
taking  into  account  the  lack  of  a  census  (until  1984)  and  the  politi- 
cal biases  affecting  estimates,  asserted  that  the  Oromo  were  almost 
certainly  the  largest  ethnic  group  in  Ethiopia,  making  up  some- 
where between  a  third  and  just  over  half  its  population.  A  widely 
accepted  estimate  in  the  late  1980s  was  40  percent. 

The  Oromo  provide  an  example  of  the  difficulties  of  specifying 
the  boundaries  and  nature  of  an  ethnic  group.  Some  Oromo  groups, 
such  as  the  Borana,  remain  pastoralists.  But  others,  the  great 
majority  of  the  people,  have  become  plow  cultivators  or  are  en- 
gaged in  mixed  farming.  A  few  groups,  particularly  the  pastoralists, 
retain  significant  features  of  the  traditional  mode  of  social  and  po- 
litical organization  marked  by  generation  and  age-set  systems  (see 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Glossary)  and  the  absence  of  a  centralized  political  structure;  others, 
such  as  those  who  established  kingdoms  along  the  Gibe  River,  de- 
veloped hierarchial  systems.  Cutting  across  the  range  of  economic 
and  political  patterns  are  variations  in  religious  belief  and  prac- 
tice. Again,  the  pastoralists  usually  adhere  to  the  indigenous  sys- 
tem. Other  groups,  particularly  those  in  Shewa  and  Welega,  have 
been  influenced  by  Orthodox  Christianity,  and  still  others  have 
been  converted  to  Islam.  Here  and  there,  missionary  Protestan- 
tism has  had  minor  successes.  Moreover,  the  Oromo  sections  and 
subsections  have  a  long  history  of  conflict.  Sometimes  this  conflict 
has  been  the  outcome  of  competition  for  land;  sometimes  it  has 
resulted  from  strife  between  those  allied  with  the  Amhara  and  those 
resisting  the  expansion  of  the  empire.  Some  Oromo  adapted  to  Am- 
hara dominance,  the  growth  of  towns,  and  other  changes  by  learning 
Amharic  and  achieving  a  place  in  the  empire's  political  and  eco- 
nomic order.  But  they  had  not  thereby  become  Amhara  or  lost  their 
sense  of  being  Oromo. 

In  the  far  south  live  several  groups  speaking  languages  of  the 
Oromic  branch  of  Lowland  East  Cushitic  and  in  many  cases  shar- 
ing features  of  Oromo  culture.  Most  have  been  cultivators  or  mixed 
farmers,  and  some  have  developed  distinctive  features,  such  as  the 
highlands-dwelling  Konso,  who  live  in  walled  communities  of 
roughly  1,500  persons.  All  these  groups  are  small  and  are  often 
subdivided.  With  an  estimated  population  of  60,000  in  1970,  the 
Konso  are  the  largest  of  these  groups. 

Three  other  Lowland  East  Cushitic  groups — the  Somali,  Afar, 
and  Saho — share  a  pastoral  tradition  (although  some  sections  of 
each  group  have  been  cultivators  for  some  time),  commitments  of 
varying  intensity  to  Islam,  and  social  structures  composed  of  au- 
tonomous units  defined  as  descent  groups  (see  Glossary).  In  addi- 
tion, all  have  a  history  of  adverse  relations  with  the  empire's 
dominant  Orthodox  Christian  groups  and  with  Ethiopian  govern- 
ments in  general. 

The  largest  of  the  three  groups  are  the  Somali,  estimated  to  num- 
ber nearly  900,000  in  1970.  Many  Somali  clans  and  lineages  liv- 
ing predominantly  in  Ethiopia  have  close  links  with  or  are  members 
of  such  groups  in  Somalia.  The  number  of  Somali  in  Ethiopia  in 
the  late  1980s — given  the  Ogaden  War  and  the  movement  of 
refugees — was  uncertain. 

Somali  society  is  divided  into  groups  of  varying  genealogical 
depth  based  on  putative  or  traceable  common  patrilineal  descent. 
The  largest  of  these  groups  is  the  clan-family  (see  Glossary),  which 
is  in  turn  divided  into  clans,  which  are  further  divided  into  lin- 
eages (see  Glossary)  and  sublineages  (see  Glossary).  The  clan-family 


95 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


has  no  concrete  political,  economic,  or  social  functions.  The  other 
groups  do,  however,  and  these  functions  often  entail  political  and 
economic  competition  and  sometimes  conflict  between  parallel  so- 
cial units. 

The  government  estimated  that  the  Afar  (called  Denakil  or  Adal 
by  their  neighbors)  numbered  no  more  than  363,000  in  1970. 
Despite  their  relatively  small  numbers,  they  were  of  some  impor- 
tance because  of  their  location  between  the  highlands  and  the  Red 
Sea,  their  antipathy  to  Ethiopian  rule,  and  the  quasi-autonomy 
of  a  part  of  the  Afar  under  the  sultan  of  Aussa  before  the  1974  revo- 
lution. 

Except  for  several  petty  centralized  states  under  sultans  or 
shaykhs,  the  Afar  are  fragmented  among  tribes,  subtribes,  and  still 
smaller  divisions  and  are  characterized  by  a  distinction  between 
noble  and  commoner  groups,  about  which  little  is  known.  Most 
Afar  are  pastoralists  but  are  restricted  in  their  nomadism  by  the 
need  to  stay  close  to  permanent  wells  in  extremely  arid  country. 
A  number  of  them  in  the  former  sultan  of  Aussa' s  territory  have 
long  been  settled  cultivators  in  the  lower  Awash  River  valley, 
although  the  imperial  government  initiated  a  program  to  settle 
others  along  the  middle  Awash. 

Saho  is  a  linguistic  rather  than  an  ethnic  category.  The  groups 
speaking  the  language  include  elements  from  the  Afar,  the  Tigray, 
Tigre  speakers,  and  others,  including  some  Arabs.  Almost  all  are 
pastoralists.  Most  are  Muslims,  but  several  groups — those  heav- 
ily influenced  by  the  Tigray — are  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christians. 

Little  is  known  about  the  political  and  social  systems  of  the  ten 
or  so  groups  making  up  the  total  estimated  Saho-speaking  popula- 
tion of  120,000,  but  each  group  seems  to  be  divided  into  segments. 
None  was  ever  marked  by  the  noble-serf  distinction  characteristic 
of  Tigre  speakers  to  their  north,  and  all  were  said  to  elect  their  chiefs. 

The  speakers  of  the  Highland  East  Cushitic  languages  (some- 
times called  the  Sidamo  languages  after  a  version  of  the  name  of 
their  largest  component)  numbered  more  than  2  million  in  1970. 
The  two  largest  groups  were  the  Sidama  (857,000)  and  the  Hadya- 
Libido  speakers  (700,000).  Kembata-Timbaro-Alaba  speakers  and 
the  Deresa  made  up  the  rest.  Each  of  these  two  groups  numbered 
about  250,000  in  1970.  As  the  hyphenated  names  suggest,  two  or 
more  autonomous  groups  speaking  dialects  of  the  same  language 
have  been  grouped  together.  In  fact,  most  Sidama,  although  call- 
ing themselves  by  a  single  name  in  some  contexts,  traditionally  are 
divided  into  a  number  of  localized  and  formerly  politically  autono- 
mous patrilineal  clans,  each  under  a  chief. 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  Sidama  and  other  Highland  East  Cushitic  speakers  are  cul- 
tivators of  ensete  and  of  coffee  as  a  cash  crop.  In  areas  below  1 ,500 
meters  in  elevation,  however,  the  Sidama  keep  cattle. 

The  Sidama  and  other  groups  have  retained  their  traditional  re- 
ligious systems,  although  some  have  been  responsive  to  Protestant 
missionaries.  Others,  such  as  the  Alaba,  the  Hadya,  and  the  Tim- 
baro,  have  accepted  Islam.  Only  the  Kembata  are  converts  to  Or- 
thodox Christianity. 

There  are  six  groups  of  Central  Cushitic  (Agew)  speakers,  five 
of  which  live  in  the  central  highlands  surrounded  by  Amhara.  The 
Bilen  in  the  extreme  northern  highlands  form  an  enclave  between 
the  Tigray  and  the  Tigre  speakers.  Agew-speaking  groups  total  be- 
tween 100,000  and  125,000  persons.  They  are  the  remnants  of  a 
population  thought  to  have  been  the  inhabitants  of  much  of  the 
central  and  northern  highlands  when  Semitic-speaking  migrants 
arrived  millennia  ago  to  begin  the  process  that  led  to  the  forma- 
tion of  such  groups  as  the  Tigray  and  the  Amhara.  It  is  likely  that 
Agew  speakers  provided  much  of  the  basic  stock  from  which  the 
Amhara  and  Tigray  were  drawn. 

The  largest  of  the  Agew-speaking  groups  are  the  Awi  (whose  lan- 
guage is  Awngi),  estimated  to  number  50,000  in  1970.  The  lin- 
guistically related  but  geographically  separate  Kunfel  numbered 
no  more  than  2,000.  The  Awi  and  the  Qimant,  numbering  about 
17,000,  retain  their  traditional  religious  system;  but  the  Kunfel  and 
the  Xamtanga,  totaling  about  5,000,  are  apparently  Orthodox 
Christians.  The  Bilen  have  been  much  influenced  by  Islam,  and 
many  have  begun  to  speak  the  Tigre  of  their  Islamic  neighbors  as 
a  second  tongue. 

A  special  case  is  the  Beta  Israel  (their  own  name;  others  call  them 
Falasha  or  Kayla),  who  numbered  about  20,000  in  1989,  most  of 
whom  emigrated  to  Israel  in  late  1984  and  in  May  1991.  Perhaps 
preceding  the  arrival  of  Christianity  in  the  fourth  century  A.D., 
a  group  of  Agew  speakers  adopted  a  form  of  Judaism,  although 
their  organization  and  many  of  their  religious  practices  resemble 
those  of  their  Orthodox  Christian  neighbors.  The  precise  origins 
and  nature  of  the  Judaic  influence  are  matters  of  dispute.  Most 
Beta  Israel  speak  Amharic  as  a  first  language.  Agew  occurs  in  their 
liturgy,  but  the  words  are  not  understood. 

Except  for  the  Beta  Israel,  all  Agew-speaking  groups  are  plow 
agriculturists  (the  Kunfel  augment  their  livelihood  by  hunting). 
The  Beta  Israel  had  been  cultivators  until  deprived  of  their  right 
to  hold  land  after  a  major  conflict  with  the  Amhara  and  their  refusal 
to  convert  to  Christianity  in  the  fifteenth  century.  They  then  became 
craftsmen,  although  many  later  returned  to  the  land  as  tenants. 


97 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  sole  group  speaking  a  Northern  Cushitic  tongue  is  the  Beja, 
a  Muslim  pastoral  group  that  numbered  about  20,000  in  1970. 
(Many  more  live  in  neighboring  Sudan.)  Their  language  is  in- 
fluenced by  Arabic,  and  the  Beja  have  come  to  claim  Arab  descent 
since  their  conversion  to  Islam.  Like  many  of  the  other  nomadic 
pastoralists  in  the  area,  they  traditionally  were  segmented  into  tribes 
and  smaller  units,  based  on  actual  or  putative  descent  from  a  com- 
mon male  ancestor  and  characterized  by  considerable  autonomy, 
although  federated  under  a  paramount  chief. 

Omotic  Language  Groups 

Between  the  lakes  of  southern  Ethiopia's  Great  Rift  Valley  and 
the  Omo  River  (in  a  few  cases  west  of  the  Omo)  live  many  groups 
that  speak  languages  of  the  Omotic  family.  As  many  as  eighty 
groups  have  been  distinguished,  but  various  sets  of  them  speak  dia- 
lects of  the  same  language.  Together  they  were  estimated  to  num- 
ber 1.3  million  in  1970.  Of  these,  the  Welamo  (often  called  Wolayta) 
are  the  most  numerous,  estimated  to  number  more  than  500,000 
in  1970.  Gemu-Gofa  is  a  language  spoken  by  perhaps  forty  auton- 
omous groups,  estimated  at  295,000  in  1970  in  the  Gemu  highlands. 
Kefa-Mocha,  spoken  by  an  estimated  170,000,  is  the  language  of 
two  separate  groups  (one,  commonly  called  Mocha,  calls  itself 
Shekatcho).  Of  the  two,  Kefa  is  the  larger. 

The  relatively  limited  area  in  which  they  live,  the  diversity  of 
their  languages,  and  other  linguistic  considerations  suggest  that  the 
ancestors  of  the  speakers  of  Omotic  languages  have  been  in  place 
for  many  millennia.  Omotic  speakers  have  been  influenced  linguisti- 
cally and  otherwise  by  Nilo-Saharan  groups  to  the  west  and  by  East 
Cushitic  groups  surrounding  them.  As  a  result  of  the  early  forma- 
tion of  ancestral  Omotic-speaking  groups,  external  influences,  and 
the  demands  of  varied  physical  and  social  environments,  the  Omotic 
speakers  have  developed  not  only  linguistic  diversity  but  also  sub- 
stantial differences  in  other  respects.  Most  Omotic-speaking  peo- 
ples, for  example,  are  hoe  cultivators,  relying  on  the  cultivation 
of  ensete  at  higher  altitudes  and  of  grains  below  approximately  1 ,500 
meters.  They  also  practice  animal  husbandry.  Many  in  the  Gemu 
highlands  are  artisans,  principally  weavers.  Their  craftwork  has 
become  attractive  as  the  demand  for  their  work  in  Addis  Ababa 
and  other  urban  centers  has  increased.  In  the  capital  these  people 
are  commonly  called  Dorze,  although  that  is  the  name  of  just  one 
of  their  groups. 

Except  for  the  Kefa — long  influenced  by  Orthodox  Christi- 
anity— and  a  small  number  of  Muslims,  Omotic  speakers  have  re- 
tained their  indigenous  religious  systems,  although  a  few  have  been 


98 


Tall  cacti  in  southern  Ethiopia 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (0.  Monsen) 

influenced  by  European  missionaries.  Most  of  these  groups  origi- 
nally had  chiefs  or  kings.  Among  the  exceptions  are  larger  entities 
such  as  the  Welamo  and  the  Kefa,  both  characterized  by  central- 
ized political  systems  that  exacted  tribute  from  neighboring  peoples. 

Nilo-Saharan  Language  Groups 

In  the  far  southwest  and  along  the  country's  western  border  live 
several  peoples  speaking  Nilo-Saharan  languages.  The  most  numer- 
ous of  these  are  the  Nuer  and  Anuak,  both  members  of  the  East 
Sudanic  family.  Most  Nuer  are  found  in  Sudan,  whereas  the  Anuak 
live  almost  entirely  in  Ethiopia.  Most  of  these  people  are  hoe  cul- 
tivators of  grains,  but  many  have  cattle.  A  few,  such  as  the  Nuer, 
are  seminomadic. 

The  Kunema  are  found  in  western  Tigray.  Perhaps  because  of 
the  long  Italian  influence  in  Eritrea,  they  have  been  most  affected 
by  foreign  religious  influences.  Although  Orthodox  Christianity 
had  little  or  no  impact  on  them,  the  Kunema  often  accepted  the 
teachings  of  Protestant  and  Roman  Catholic  missionaries.  Two 
other  groups,  the  Berta  and  the  Nara,  have  been  influenced  by 
Islam.  Otherwise,  these  peoples  have  retained  their  traditional  re- 
ligious systems.  Koman  speakers  consist  of  several  groups  who  live 
along  the  Ethio-Sudan  border  in  western  Welega.  Among  these 
little-known  peoples  are  the  Gumuz,  who,  along  with  the  Berta, 


99 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

are  also  called  Bani  Shangul.  In  the  past,  these  peoples  were  often 
the  object  of  slave  raids  by  their  neighbors  in  Ethiopia  and  Sudan. 

Occupational  Castes 

Sixty  to  seventy  groups  scattered  throughout  Ethiopia  tradition- 
ally were  on  the  periphery  of  local  social  systems.  Many  authori- 
ties refer  to  them  as  occupational  castes.  Characterized  by 
endogamy  and  also  by  specialization  in  one  or  more  occupations 
considered  unclean  or  degrading,  they  have  been  excluded  from 
ordinary  interaction  with  members  of  the  host  community,  although 
one  group  acted  as  ritual  functionaries  for  its  host.  The  members 
of  a  caste  group  typically  speak  the  local  language,  but  some  also 
have  a  language  of  their  own  or  speak  a  variation  on  the  local  one. 
They  also  tend  to  be  physically  distinguishable  from  members  of 
the  host  group.  Their  most  common  occupational  specialties  are 
woodworking,  beekeeping,  and  ritual  functions.  Another  group, 
consisting  primarily  of  hunters,  at  one  time  provided  royal  guards 
for  the  traditional  ruler  of  one  host  society. 

Ethnic  and  Social  Relations 

Interethnic  Relations 

Ethnicity  in  Ethiopia  is  an  enormously  complex  concept.  No  ethnic 
entity  has  been  untouched  by  others.  Groups  in  existence  in  the  twen- 
tieth century  are  biological  and  social  amalgams  of  several  preexisting 
entities.  The  ingredients  are  often  discernible  only  by  inference,  par- 
ticularly if  the  mixing  took  place  long  ago.  Nonetheless,  such  mix- 
ing led  to  the  formation  of  groups  that  think  of  themselves  and  are 
considered  by  others  as  different.  For  instance,  in  the  prerevolu- 
tionary  period  there  were  thousands  of  non-Amhara  who  had  ac- 
quired the  wherewithal  to  approximate  the  life- style  of  wealthy 
Amhara  and  had  in  fact  gained  recognition  as  Amhara.  Such  mix- 
ing has  continued,  and  the  boundaries  of  ethnic  groups  also  con- 
tinue to  change. 

Interethnic  relations  in  prerevolutionary  Ethiopia  did  not  con- 
form to  a  single  model  and  were  complex  because  of  the  nature 
of  Amhara  contact  with  other  groups  and  the  internal  social  and 
economic  dynamics  of  the  groups.  Each  group  reacted  differently 
to  Amhara  dominance.  What  makes  this  analysis  even  more  com- 
plex is  that  the  Amhara  themselves  do  not  constitute  a  cohesive 
group.  Indeed,  the  tendency  to  see  Ethiopia  before  (and,  by  some 
accounts,  after)  the  revolution  as  dominated  by  Amhara  has  ob- 
scured the  complexity  of  interethnic  relations. 

The  Amhara  are  found  predominantly  in  Gojam,  Gonder,  in 
parts  of  Welo  such  as  Lasta  and  Wag,  and  in  parts  of  Shewa  such 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


as  Menz.  Amhara  from  one  area  view  those  from  other  areas  as 
different,  and  there  is  a  long  history  of  conflicts  among  Amhara 
nobles  aspiring  to  be  kings  or  kingmakers. 

Intraprovincial  and  interprovincial  conflict  between  Amhara  no- 
bles and  their  followers  was  quite  common.  Some  aspects  of  intra- 
Amhara  friction  may  be  seen  in  the  relations  of  Shewan  Amhara 
to  other  Amhara  and  to  other  Ethiopians.  Shewan  Arnharic  speakers 
are  on  the  southern  periphery  of  the  territory  occupied  by  the  Am- 
hara. They  made  their  presence  felt  in  much  of  the  Shewa  region 
relatively  late,  except  in  areas  such  as  Menz,  which  had  always 
been  Amhara.  Thus,  the  Shewans  over  the  centuries  developed  a 
culture  and  a  society  that  emerged  from  Oromo,  Amhara,  and 
perhaps  other  groups.  Whereas  the  southern  people  considered 
Shewan  Orthodox  Christians  as  Amhara,  people  from  older  Am- 
hara areas  such  as  Gojam  and  Gonder  thought  of  such  persons  as 
Shewans  or  sometimes  even  as  Oromo. 

During  the  imperial  regime,  Amhara  dominance  led  to  the  adop- 
tion of  Arnharic  as  the  language  of  government,  commerce,  and 
education.  Other  forms  of  Amhara  dominance  occurred  in  local 
government,  where  Amhara  served  as  representatives  of  the  cen- 
tral government  or  became  landholders. 

Reaction  to  the  Amhara  varied  even  within  individual  ethnic 
groups.  Some  resisted  the  Amhara  bitterly,  while  others  aided  them. 
In  its  most  extreme  form,  resistance  to  Amhara  dominance  resulted 
in  enduring  separatist  movements,  particularly  in  Eritrea,  Tigray, 
and  the  Ogaden.  The  separatist  movement  in  Eritrea  reflects  a 
somewhat  different  historical  experience  from  that  of  other  areas 
of  Ethiopia.  Despite  Eritrea's  seeming  unity,  ethnic  and  religious 
differences  among  Eritreans  abounded.  For  example,  the  Kunema, 
a  Nilo-Saharan-speaking  people  who  formed  an  enclave  among 
Eritrea's  Muslims  and  Christians  and  who  have  long  been  treated 
as  inferior  by  some  groups  that  make  up  the  Eritrean  independence 
movement,  historically  have  provided  an  island  of  support  for  the 
central  government. 

Perhaps  the  only  region  to  which  the  Amhara  did  not  bring  their 
sense  of  superiority  was  Tigray,  home  of  the  people  who  lay  claim 
to  the  Aksumite  heritage.  The  Amhara  did  not  come  to  Tigray  as 
receivers  of  land  grants,  and  government  administrators  were  often 
Tigray  an  themselves.  Tigray  perspectives  on  the  Amhara  were, 
however,  influenced  negatively  by  a  number  of  historical  factors. 
For  example,  the  son  of  the  only  emperor  of  Tigray  origin  to  have 
ruled  Ethiopia,  Yohannis  IV  (reigned  1872-89),  was  deprived  of 
the  throne  by  Menelik  II,  an  Amhara.  In  1943  the  imperial  re- 
gime brutally  repressed  a  Tigray  rebellion  called  the  Weyane. 


101 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Ethiopia's  Ogaden  region,  inhabited  primarily  by  ethnic  Somali, 
was  the  scene  of  a  series  of  Ethiopian- Somali  struggles  in  1964, 
1977-78,  and  intermittently  after  that  until  1987.  Somalia  supported 
self-determination  for  Ogaden  Somali.  Although  Somalia  and  Ethio- 
pia signed  a  joint  communique  in  1988  to  end  hostilities,  Mogadishu 
refused  to  abandon  its  claim  to  the  Ogaden.  Moreover,  in  1989 
and  1990,  the  Ogaden  region  was  home  to  about  350,000  Isaaq 
Somali  from  northern  Somalia  who  had  escaped  persecution  by 
the  regime  of  Mahammad  Siad  Barre. 

In  April  1976,  the  PMAC  promulgated  its  Program  for  the  Na- 
tional Democratic  Revolution  (PNDR),  which  accepted  the  notions 
of  self-determination  for  nationalities  and  regional  autonomy.  In 
compliance  with  the  program,  the  PMAC  created  the  Institute  for 
the  Study  of  Ethiopian  Nationalities  in  1983  to  develop  adminis- 
trative and  political  proposals  to  accommodate  all  the  country's 
major  nationalities.  As  a  result  of  the  institute's  findings,  the  govern- 
ment expressed  a  desire  to  abolish  Ethiopia's  fourteen  administra- 
tive regions  and  to  create  thirty  regions,  of  which  five — Eritrea, 
Tigray,  Aseb,  Dire  Dawa,  and  the  Ogaden — were  to  be  autono- 
mous. Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  leaders  denounced  the  plan  as  noth- 
ing more  than  an  attempt  to  perpetuate  government  control  of 
Eritrea  and  Tigray.  Their  military  campaigns  to  wrest  control  of 
the  two  regions  from  the  Mengistu  regime  eventually  succeeded. 

The  PMAC  undermined  the  patterns  of  ethnic  relations  prevail- 
ing in  imperial  Ethiopia  and  eliminated  the  basis  for  Amhara 
dominance.  However,  postrevolutionary  Ethiopia  continued  to  ex- 
hibit ethnic  tension.  Traits  based  on  ethnicity  and  religion  are  deeply 
ingrained  and  are  not  susceptible  to  elimination  by  ideology. 

Social  Relations 

Ethiopia's  ethnic  and  cultural  diversity  has  affected  social  rela- 
tions. Most  lowland  people  are  geographically  and  socially  isolated 
from  the  highland  population.  Moreover,  rural  inhabitants,  who 
constitute  about  89  percent  of  the  total  population,  generally  live 
their  lives  without  coming  into  contact  with  outsiders.  Exposure 
to  other  ethnic  groups  usually  occurs  by  means  of  relatively  lim- 
ited contact  with  administrators,  tax  collectors,  and  retail  merchants. 
By  contrast,  the  towns  are  a  mosaic  of  social  and  ethnic  diversity. 
Since  the  early  1940s,  towns  fulfilling  administrative  and  economic 
functions  have  proliferated.  In  Addis  Ababa,  it  is  common  for  fam- 
ilies and  groups  from  disparate  social  and  economic  classes  to  live 
side  by  side.  Only  in  recent  years,  with  unprecedented  urbaniza- 
tion, have  upper-income  residential  zones  emerged.  Smaller  urban 
centers  have  tended  to  be  fairly  homogeneous  in  ethnic  and  religious 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


makeup.  But  with  increasing  urbanization,  towns  are  expected  to 
be  the  scene  of  increased  interaction  among  different  ethnic  groups 
and  social  classes. 

Traditionally,  among  the  most  important  factors  in  social  rela- 
tions in  Ethiopia  has  been  religion  (see  Religious  Life,  this  ch.). 
Ethiopian  emperors  nurtured  the  country's  identity  with  Christi- 
anity, although  there  were  at  least  as  many  Muslims  as  Chris- 
tians in  the  country.  Although  the  imperial  regime  did  not  impose 
Orthodox  Christianity  on  Muslims  and  pagans,  very  few  non- 
Christians  held  high  positions  in  government  and  the  military.  In 
many  cases,  Muslims  gravitated  to  commerce  and  trade,  occupa- 
tions relatively  untainted  by  religious  discrimination. 

The  Mengistu  regime  downplayed  the  role  of  religion  in  the 
state's  life  and  disestablished  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church. 
Moreover,  the  1987  constitution  guaranteed  freedom  of  religion. 
In  principle,  all  religions  had  equal  status  in  relation  to  the  state. 

Muslims  live  throughout  Ethiopia,  but  large  concentrations  can 
be  found  in  Bale,  Eritrea,  Harerge,  and  Welo.  Muslims  also  be- 
long to  many  ethnic  groups,  a  factor  that  may  prevent  them  from 
exerting  political  influence  commensurate  with  their  numbers.  Cen- 
turies of  conflict  between  the  Christian  kingdom  and  its  Muslim 
antagonists,  recent  apprehensions  about  Arab  nationalism,  and 
Arab  support  for  Eritrean  separatism  and  Somali  irredentism  all 
continue  to  perpetuate  Ethiopian  historical  fears  of  "Islamic  en- 
circlement." Such  historically  rooted  religious  antagonism  has  per- 
sisted in  creating  a  social  barrier  between  Christians  and  Muslims. 

Those  who  profess  traditional  religious  beliefs  are  interspersed 
among  Christians  and  Muslims.  Such  groups  include  the  Sidama, 
the  Gurage,  the  Oromo  of  Arsi  and  Borana,  and  the  Nilotic  groups 
along  the  Ethiopia-Sudan  border.  They  have  no  political  influence 
and  are  scorned  socially  by  Muslims  and  Christians. 

The  existence  of  more  than  seventy  languages  has  been  another 
barrier  to  social  communication  and  national  integration.  The  im- 
perial government,  recognizing  the  importance  of  a  national  lan- 
guage, adopted  Amharic  as  the  official  tongue.  The  use  of  Amharic 
became  mandatory  in  government,  education,  radiobroadcasts,  and 
newspapers.  But  the  government's  promotion  of  Amharic  entailed 
the  suppression  of  other  major  languages,  which  aroused  opposi- 
tion and  accusations  of  cultural  imperialism.  Language  policy 
changed  under  the  Mengistu  regime,  which  attempted  to  reverse 
the  trend  by  dropping  Amharic  as  a  requirement  in  schools  for  non- 
Amharic  speakers.  The  new  policy  recognized  several  languages 
widely  spoken  in  specific  areas — such  as  Oromo,  Tigrinya,  Welamo, 
and  Somali — for  use  in  schools  at  the  lower  levels  (see  Primary  and 


103 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Secondary  Education  since  1975,  this  ch.).  Addis  Ababa  also  autho- 
rized the  use  of  the  five  languages  mentioned  above,  as  well  as  Afar, 
in  radiobroadcasts  and  literacy  campaigns.  Nevertheless,  Amharic 
remained  the  language  of  government,  and  anyone  who  aspired 
to  a  national  role  had  to  learn  to  speak  and  write  Amharic. 

The  most  preferred  occupations  traditionally  have  been  in 
government,  the  military,  the  clergy,  and  farming,  with  commerce 
and  trade  considered  less  important  and  consequently  usually  left 
to  Muslims  and  foreigners.  All  major  Ethiopian  ethnic  units  in- 
clude hereditary  groups  of  artisans  and  craftsmen.  Their  occupa- 
tions historically  have  been  held  in  low  esteem  by  the  dominant 
groups.  Prior  to  1974,  artisans  and  craftsmen  could  not  own  land 
or  hold  political  office  and  could  not  participate  in  local  meetings 
or  assemblies.  Dominant  groups  in  their  respective  areas  generally 
treated  them  as  subjects. 

Social  status  in  Ethiopia  during  the  centuries  of  imperial  rule 
depended  on  one's  landholdings,  which  provided  the  basis  for  class 
formation  and  social  stratification.  The  emperor,  the  nobility,  and 
landlords  occupied  the  social  hierarchy's  highest  positions.  Under 
them  were  smallholding  farmers,  followed  by  millions  of  landless 
peasants  who  cultivated  rented  land.  In  the  twentieth  century,  most 
of  the  southern  landlord  class  consisted  of  Christian  settlers  from 
the  north,  whereas  the  tenants  were  mostly  non-Christians  and  na- 
tives of  the  area.  Thus,  ethnic  and  cultural  differences  exacerbated 
class  distinctions,  which,  in  turn,  adversely  affected  social  relations 
(see  Rural  Society,  this  ch.). 

With  the  dissolution  of  the  imperial  system  and  the  nationaliza- 
tion of  urban  and  rural  land,  social  stratification  and  community 
relations  based  on  landholding  largely  disappeared.  The  military 
regime  wanted  to  create  a  classless  society,  but  the  social  hierarchy 
based  on  landholdings  simply  was  replaced  by  one  based  on  polit- 
ical power  and  influence.  National  and  regional  party  members, 
government  ministers,  military  officers,  and  senior  civil  servants 
had  enormous  political  sway  and  enjoyed  the  economic  perquisites 
that  the  nobility  and  landlords  once  possessed. 

After  Ethiopia's  liberation  from  Italian  occupation  in  1941,  edu- 
cation played  an  important  role  in  social  relations  by  creating  a 
"new  nobility"  and  a  middle  class  whose  position  and  status  were 
largely  independent  of  landownership.  This  new  group  consisted 
of  educated  children  of  the  nobility,  commoners  who  had  achieved 
distinction  for  their  loyalty  to  the  emperor,  and  others  with  ad- 
vanced education  whose  skills  were  needed  to  modernize  the 
bureaucracy  and  military.  The  postwar  education  system,  the  new 
government  bureaucracy,  and  the  modern  sector  of  the  economy 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


also  encouraged  the  growth  of  a  middle  class  employed  in  the  public 
and  private  sectors.  Members  of  the  small  educated  class  that  filled 
the  bureaucracy  and  the  professions  during  the  postwar  imperial 
period  by  and  large  retained  their  positions  under  Mengistu,  al- 
though many  left  the  country  because  of  disenchantment  with  his 
regime. 

The  educated  group  was  generally  less  attached  to  religion  and 
tradition  than  was  the  rest  of  Ethiopian  society.  Members'  educa- 
tion, income,  occupation,  and  urban  life-style  likewise  set  them 
apart.  They  had  more  in  common  with  educated  people  from  other 
ethnic  groups  and  frequently  married  across  ethnic  lines,  although 
rarely  across  religious  lines.  Nevertheless,  in  the  last  decade  or  so 
before  the  1974  revolution,  some  younger  and  better-educated  non- 
Amhara  expressed  continued,  even  heightened,  ethnic  awareness 
through  membership  in  urban-based  self-help  associations,  which 
the  Mengistu  regime  later  banned.  Although  this  educated  group 
played  a  vital  role  in  the  emperor's  downfall,  it  had  little  influence 
on  the  military  government. 

Many  of  the  PMAC's  policies  were  perceived  as  inimical  to  the 
interests  of  major  ethnic  and  class  groups.  Despite  the  regime's 
tentative  efforts — such  as  land  reform — to  defuse  some  longstand- 
ing grievances,  opposition  based  on  ethnic,  religious,  and  class  in- 
terests continued. 

Social  System 

Rural  areas,  which  contain  an  estimated  89  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation, make  up  most  of  the  country;  it  is  the  urban  centers, 
however,  that  generate  most  of  the  country's  political,  adminis- 
trative, cultural,  and  commercial  activities.  The  towns  and  cities 
are  also  home  to  a  variety  of  people  forced  to  live  on  the  margins 
of  society  by  the  Mengistu  regime — absentee  landlords  whose  rural 
lands  and  urban  property  had  been  confiscated  by  the  state,  as  well 
as  erstwhile  activists  who  had  aspired  to  genuine  democratic  re- 
forms and  had  seen  their  hopes  dashed. 

Prior  to  the  1974  revolution,  most  Ethiopians  conducted  their 
daily  lives  in  accordance  with  norms  peculiar  to  each  community 
or  region.  Ethnic  groups  characterized  by  common  features  of  so- 
cial organization  and  values  were,  on  closer  examination,  actually 
quite  diverse.  As  important  as  local  structures  were,  the  societies 
they  characterized  were  not  autonomous.  Those  that  came  closest 
to  self-sufficiency  were  the  eastern  nomads.  In  the  inaccessible  and 
inhospitable  areas  inhabited  by  these  groups,  representatives  of  the 
central  government  were  scarce.  Elsewhere,  each  community  was 
bound  to  a  region  and  through  it  to  the  imperial  center  by  layers 


105 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

of  social  and  political  strata.  Binding  these  strata  together  even 
tighter  was  a  complex  system  of  land  rights. 

Modifications  introduced  after  World  War  II,  particularly  with 
respect  to  land  rights,  had  little  effect  on  the  essential  charac- 
teristics of  the  social  order.  The  regime  that  took  power  in  1974 
attempted  to  replace  the  old  rural  order  with  a  new  one  based  on 
the  principle  that  land  should  be  distributed  equitably.  Even  though 
most  rural  areas  supported  the  government's  efforts  to  bring  about 
such  a  change,  the  ultimate  shape  of  the  social  and  economic  order 
remained  uncertain  as  the  1990s  began. 

Rural  Society 

Political  scientist  John  Markakis  has  observed,  "The  social  struc- 
ture of  traditional  Amhara-Tigray  society  [represented]  the  classic 
trinity  of  noble,  priest,  and  peasant.  These  groups  [were]  distin- 
guished not  only  through  the  division  of  labor,  distinct  social  sta- 
tus, and  a  clear  awareness  of  such  distinctions  expressed  and  justified 
in  ideological  terms,  but  also  through  differences  in  their  relation- 
ships to  the  only  means  of  production:  land."  In  the  northern  high- 
lands, land  was  usually  held  by  the  kin  group,  the  state,  and  the 
church  and,  through  each  of  these,  by  individuals.  Private  owner- 
ship in  the  Western  sense  came  later  and  was  abolished  in  1975. 

Anthropologist  Allan  Hoben  is  considered  to  have  made  the  most 
thorough  analysis  of  Amhara  land  tenure  and  its  relation  to  social 
structure.  According  to  his  findings,  the  cognatic  descent  group 
(see  Glossary),  comprising  men  and  women  believed  to  be  de- 
scended from  a  common  ancestor  through  both  males  and  females, 
ultimately  held  a  block  of  land.  As  in  cognatic  descent  systems  else- 
where, men  and  women  could  belong  to  several  such  landholding 
groups.  The  descent  group  and  each  of  its  segments  had  a  represen- 
tative who  looked  after  its  collective  interests.  This  agent,  the 
respected  elders,  and  politically  influential  members  of  the  group 
or  its  segments  acted  in  disputes  over  rights  to  land.  The  land  was 
called  rist  (see  Glossary)  land,  and  the  rights  held  or  claimed  in 
it  were  rist  rights.  An  Amhara  had  claims  not  to  a  specific  piece 
of  land  but  to  a  portion  of  it  administered  by  the  descent  group 
or  a  segment  of  this  group.  The  person  holding  such  rights  was 
called  ristegna.  In  principle,  rist  rights  guaranteed  security  of  tenure. 
Litigation  over  such  rights  was  common,  however.  Most  north- 
ern highland  peasants  held  at  least  some  rist  land,  but  some  mem- 
bers of  pariah  groups  and  others  were  tenants. 

Peasants  were  subject  to  claims  for  taxes  and  labor  from  those 
above  them,  including  the  church.  The  common  term  for  peasant, 
derived  from  the  word  for  tribute,  was  gebbar.  Taxes  and  fees  were 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


comprehensive,  multiple,  and  burdensome.  In  addition,  the  peasant 
had  to  provide  labor  to  a  hierarchy  of  officials  for  a  variety  of  tasks. 
It  was  only  after  World  War  II  that  administrative  and  fiscal  re- 
forms ended  many  of  these  exactions. 

The  state  exercised  another  set  of  rights  over  land,  including  land 
held  in  rist.  The  emperor  was  the  ultimate  and  often  immediate 
arbiter  of  such  rights,  called  gult  (see  Glossary)  rights,  and  the 
recipient  was  called  gultegna.  There  was  considerable  variation  in 
the  content  and  duration  of  the  gult  rights  bestowed  on  any  person. 

Gult  rights  were  the  typical  form  of  compensation  for  an  official 
until  the  government  instituted  salaries  in  the  period  after  World 
War  II.  Many  gult  grants  were  for  life,  or  were  hereditary,  and 
did  not  depend  on  the  performance  of  official  duties.  The  grants 
served  to  bind  members  of  noble  families  and  the  local  gentry  to 
the  emperor. 

The  emperor  also  granted  hereditary  possession  (rist  gult)  of  state 
land  to  members  of  the  higher  nobility  or  the  royal  family.  Peasants 
on  such  land  became  tenants  of  the  grantee  and  paid  rent  in  addi- 
tion to  the  usual  taxes  and  fees.  Lieutenants  who  shared  in  the  trib- 
ute represented  the  absentee  landlords. 

Those  who  benefited  from  the  allocation  of  gult  rights  included 
members  of  the  royal  family  (masajint,  or  princes),  the  nobility 
(makuannent) ,  the  local  gentry,  low-level  administrators,  and  per- 
sons with  local  influence.  Until  the  twentieth  century,  the  chief 
duties  of  the  makuannent  were  administrative  and  military.  Mem- 
bership in  the  makuannent  was  not  fixed,  and  local  gentry  who  proved 
able  and  loyal  often  assumed  higher  office  and  were  elevated  to 
the  nobility.  It  was  possible  for  a  commoner  to  become  a  noble 
and  for  the  son  of  a  noble — even  one  with  a  hereditary  title — to 
lose  status  and  wealth  unless  he  demonstrated  military  or  other  capa- 
bilities. Although  there  was  a  gap  in  living  standards  between 
peasant  and  noble,  cultural  differences  were  not  profound.  Con- 
sequently, the  Amhara  and  Tigray  lacked  the  notion  of  a  heredi- 
tary class  of  nobles.  Although  it  is  possible  to  divide  the  Amhara 
and  Tigray  populations  of  the  late  nineteenth  and  much  of  the  twen- 
tieth centuries  in  terms  of  rank,  social  status,  power,  and  wealth, 
those  who  fell  into  various  categories  did  not  necessarily  consti- 
tute distinct  strata. 

The  pattern  of  land  allocation  in  the  southern  territories  incor- 
porated into  the  empire  by  Menelik  II  differed  in  important  ways 
from  the  pattern  in  the  north.  Moreover,  the  consequences  of  al- 
location and  the  administrative  regime  imposed  by  Menelik  II  and 
Haile  Selassie  varied,  depending  on  the  way  in  which  particular 
ethnic  groups  or  regions  became  subject  to  Ethiopian  rule,  on  the 


107 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

nature  of  the  preexisting  sociopolitical  structure,  and  on  the  terri- 
tory's economic  appeal. 

Supposedly,  the  government  divided  conquered  land  in  the  south 
on  the  one-third  (siso)  principle,  by  which  two-thirds  went  to  the 
state  and  the  remainder  to  the  indigenous  population.  In  fact,  the 
proportion  of  the  land  taken  by  the  state  ranged  from  virtually  none 
to  more  than  two-thirds.  In  areas  such  as  Jima,  which  had  capitu- 
lated to  Menelik  II  without  resistance,  the  state  took  no  occupied 
land,  although  it  later  took  over  unoccupied  land  and  granted  much 
of  it  to  leading  imperial  officials.  Other  northerners,  attracted  by 
the  coffee-growing  potential  of  the  Jima  area,  bought  land  in  that 
region.  In  areas  inhabited  by  nomads,  all  the  land  was  state  land, 
little  was  granted,  and  the  pastoralists  used  it  as  before. 

The  government  allocated  state-held  land  to  a  variety  of  claim- 
ants. The  emperor  retained  a  substantial  portion  of  the  most  fer- 
tile land.  Churches  also  received  large  amounts  of  land  in  the  south 
as  northern  governors  implemented  the  imperial  policy  of  estab- 
lishing Orthodox  Christian  churches  in  conquered  territory  and 
as  northern  clergy  came  in  numbers  to  serve  them.  Each  church 
received  samon  grants,  according  to  which  the  church  held  the  rights 
to  tribute  in  perpetuity,  and  the  tribute  from  those  working  the 
land  went  solely  to  the  support  of  the  church  (or  local  monastery). 
No  part  of  it  went  through  the  secular  hierarchy  to  the  emperor. 
The  nobility,  including  the  leaders  of  Menelik' s  conquering  ar- 
mies (many  of  whom  became  governors  in  the  south),  received  rist 
gult  rights  over  large  areas  occupied  by  peasants.  Rist  gult  holders, 
secure  in  their  rights,  allocated  land  rights  of  various  kinds  to  kins- 
men and  retainers.  The  government  granted  rist  gult  rights  over 
smaller  parcels  of  land  to  officials  at  any  level  for  loyal  service.  Re- 
maining land  was  divided  between  the  indigenous  population  and 
traditional  leaders  {balabats — see  Glossary),  who  acquired  some  of 
the  best  land.  People  who  had  been  on  the  land  thus  became  tenants 
(gebbars). 

Peasants  from  the  north  went  south  as  soldiers  and  settlers.  If 
the  soldiers  and  their  heirs  continued  to  perform  military  or  other 
service,  they  received  land  that  remained  in  the  family.  If  they  ar- 
rived as  settlers,  the  government  gave  them  small  parcels  of  land 
or  allowed  them  to  buy  land  from  the  state  at  low  cost.  Such  land, 
unencumbered  by  the  residual  rights  of  a  kin  group  but  requiring 
the  payment  of  state  taxes,  was  thus  held  in  an  arrangement  much 
like  that  applied  to  freehold  land.  Generally,  settlers  were  armed 
and  were  expected  to  support  local  officials  with  force. 

Most  of  the  southern  population  consisted  of  indigenous  peo- 
ples, largely  deprived  of  the  rights  they  had  held  under  local  systems. 


108 


109 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


They,  like  Amhara  and  Tigray  peasants,  were  called  gebbars,  but 
they  held  no  rist  land  and  therefore  had  little  security  of  tenure. 
The  situation  of  the  southern  gebbars  depended  on  the  rights  granted 
by  the  state  over  the  land  on  which  they  lived.  Those  working  land 
granted  to  a  minor  official  paid  tribute  through  him.  If  the  land 
reverted  to  state  control,  the  gebbar  became  a  tributary  of  the  state. 
As  salaries  for  officials  became  the  rule  after  World  War  II,  the 
land  that  formerly  served  as  compensation  in  lieu  of  salary  was 
granted  in  permanent  possession  (in  effect,  became  freehold  land) 
to  those  holding  contingent  rights  or  to  others.  In  these  circum- 
stances, the  gebbars  became  tenants. 

The  basis  of  southern  social  stratification  was,  as  in  the  north, 
the  allocation  of  political  office  and  rights  in  land  by  the  emperor. 
The  method  of  allocating  rights  in  land  and  of  appointing  govern- 
ment officials  in  the  south  gave  rise  to  a  structure  of  status,  power, 
and  wealth  that  differed  from  the  arrangement  in  the  north  and 
from  the  earlier  forms  of  sociopolitical  organization  in  the  area. 
Those  appointed  as  government  officials  in  the  south  were  north- 
erners— mainly  Amhara,  Tigray,  and  educated  Oromo — virtually 
all  of  whom  were  Orthodox  Christians  who  spoke  Amharic.  This 
meant  that  social  stratification  coincided  with  ethnicity.  However, 
the  path  to  social  mobility  and  higher  status,  as  in  the  north,  was 
education  and  migration  to  urban  areas. 

In  1966,  under  growing  domestic  pressure  for  land  reform,  the 
imperial  government  abolished  rist  gult  in  the  north  and  south  and 
siso  gult  in  the  south.  Under  the  new  system,  the  gultegna  and  the 
gebbar  paid  taxes  to  the  state.  In  effect,  this  established  rights  of 
private  ownership.  The  abolition  of  rist  gult  left  the  northern  Am- 
hara and  Tigray  peasant  a  rist  holder,  still  dependent  on  the  cog- 
natic  descent  group  to  verify  his  rights  to  rist  land.  But  at  least  he 
was  formally  freed  of  obligations  to  the  gult  holder. 

Typically,  the  landholders  and  many  northern  provincial  offi- 
cials came  from  families  with  at  least  several  generations  of  status, 
wealth,  and  power  in  the  province — situations  they  owed  not  to 
Menelik  II  or  to  Haile  Selassie  but  to  earlier  emperors  or  to  great 
provincial  lords.  These  nobles  had  some  claim  to  the  peasants' 
loyalty,  inasmuch  as  all  belonged  to  the  same  ethnic  group  and 
shared  the  same  values.  Peasants  often  saw  attacks  on  the  north- 
ern nobility  as  challenges  to  the  entire  system  of  which  they  were 
a  part,  including  their  right  to  rist  land. 

By  contrast,  whether  or  not  they  were  descended  from  the  older 
nobility,  southern  landholders  were  more  dependent  on  the  cen- 
tral government  for  their  status  and  power.  They  were  confronted 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


with  an  ethnically  different  peasantry  and  lacked  a  base  in  the 
culture  and  society  of  the  locality  in  which  they  held  land. 

In  1975  the  revolution  succeeded  in  eliminating  the  nobility  and 
landlord  classes.  Those  individual  group  members  who  avoided 
being  killed,  exiled,  or  politically  isolated  were  able  to  do  so  be- 
cause they  had  in  some  way  already  modified  or  surrendered  their 
rights  and  privileges. 

Land  reform  affected  huge  numbers  of  people  throughout  Ethio- 
pia. However,  there  were  regional  differences  in  its  execution. 
Peasant  associations  carried  out  land  redistribution  in  the  south, 
motivated  not  only  by  economic  need  but  also  by  their  antipathy 
toward  the  landlords.  In  the  north,  the  government  preserved  rist 
tenure,  and  the  peasant  associations  concerned  themselves  mainly 
with  litigation  over  rist  rights.  Moreover,  northern  peasants  were 
not  driven  by  the  ethnic  and  class  hatred  characteristic  of  southern 
peasants. 

The  1975  Peasant  Associations  Organization  and  Consolidation 
Proclamation  granted  local  self-government  to  peasant  associations. 
Subsequently,  peasant  associations  established  judicial  tribunals  to 
deal  with  certain  criminal  and  civil  cases,  including  those  involv- 
ing violations  of  association  regulations.  Armed  units,  known  as 
peasant  defense  squads,  enforced  decisions.  Additionally,  peasant 
associations  had  economic  powers,  including  the  right  to  establish 
service  cooperatives  as  a  prelude  to  collective  ownership  (although 
there  was  little  peasant  enthusiasm  for  the  latter).  The  revolution- 
ary government  also  established  a  hierarchy  of  administrative  and 
development  committees  in  districts,  subregions,  and  regions  to 
coordinate  the  work  of  the  bodies  at  each  administrative  level.  The 
Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia  (WPE)  later  supplemented  the  work 
of  these  committees.  Only  a  few  officials  spoke  for  peasants  at  the 
district  and  subregional  levels,  and  rarely,  if  at  all,  were  peasants 
represented  in  regional  organizations,  where  civilians  and  military 
members  of  the  central  government  were  in  control  (see  Peasant 
Associations,  ch.  4). 

Urban  Society 

After  World  War  II,  towns,  commerce,  and  bureaucracy  gradu- 
ally became  more  significant  in  Ethiopia.  Except  for  Addis  Ababa 
and  some  Red  Sea  ports,  towns  were  small,  and  urbanization  had 
proceeded  more  slowly  than  in  many  other  African  countries.  City 
and  town  life  had  not  been  a  feature  of  Ethiopian  society,  and  trade 
was  not  a  full-time  occupation  for  Ethiopians  except  for  itinerant 
Muslims  and  Arabized  peoples  on  the  Red  Sea  coast.  Manufac- 
turing had  arrived  only  recently,  and  the  role  of  Ethiopians,  except 


111 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


as  unskilled  laborers,  was  minimal.  Ownership  and  management, 
with  relatively  few  exceptions,  were  in  the  hands  of  foreigners. 

Most  Ethiopians  who  entered  into  occupations  not  associated  with 
the  land  or  with  traditional  methods  of  administration  worked  for 
the  central  government,  which  had  expanded  to  bring  Ethiopia 
under  the  emperor's  control,  to  provide  essential  services,  and  to 
generate  economic  development.  During  the  1940s,  Ethiopia's  few 
educated  persons,  who  usually  came  from  families  of  the  nobility 
and  gentry,  joined  the  government. 

Beginning  in  the  1950s,  relatively  younger  Ethiopians  with  higher 
education  developed  hopes  and  expectations  for  democratic  insti- 
tutions. Still  small  in  number,  perhaps  7,000  to  8,000  by  1970, 
they  were  more  ethnically  varied  in  origin  than  the  older  educated 
group,  although  Amhara  and  Tigray  were  still  represented  dis- 
proportionately (as  they  were  even  among  secondary  school  gradu- 
ates). These  would-be  reformers  were  frequently  frustrated  by  the 
older  ways  of  the  senior  officials,  who  were  dependent  on  Haile 
Selassie  and  beholden  to  him.  Nevertheless,  sustained  opposition 
to  the  regime  did  not  occur,  largely  because  even  middle-  and  lower- 
level  government  employees  were  better  off  than  the  peasants,  small 
traders,  and  some  of  the  gentry. 

Small  traders  and  craftsmen,  below  educated  government  work- 
ers in  income  and  status,  had  little  influence  on  the  government, 
which  tended  to  encourage  larger-scale  capital-intensive  ventures 
typically  requiring  foreign  investment  and  management.  Although 
an  increasing  number  of  Christians  were  involved  in  commercial 
activities,  small  traders  remained  largely  a  Muslim  group.  Skilled 
craftsmen  who  were  not  of  the  traditional  pariah  groups  often  be- 
longed to  small  ethnic  groups,  such  as  the  weavers  (often  called 
Dorze)  of  Gamo  Gofa. 

At  the  bottom  of  the  urban  social  scale  were  workers  of  varied 
ethnic  origins,  generally  unskilled  in  a  labor  market  crowded  with 
unskilled  workers  ready  to  replace  them.  Neither  government  pol- 
icy, the  weak  labor  unions,  nor  the  condition  of  the  labor  market 
gave  them  social  or  political  leverage.  By  the  late  1960s,  inflation 
and  a  lack  of  jobs  for  university  and  secondary  school  graduates 
intensified  disgruntlement.  Urban-based  agitation  by  students, 
labor,  and  the  military  eventually  toppled  the  imperial  regime. 

Those  who  had  served  in  senior  positions  in  the  imperial  govern- 
ment and  the  military  establishment  were  dismissed,  imprisoned, 
executed,  or  they  fled  the  country.  The  survivors  of  the  old  social 
structure  were  younger  persons  in  government  service:  bureaucrats, 
teachers,  and  technicians.  Some  benefited  from  the  nationaliza- 
tion of  private  enterprises  and  expansion  of  the  government 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


apparatus,  filling  posts  held  by  senior  officials  or  foreign  specialists 
before  the  revolution.  But  this  group  was  excluded  from  power, 
and  some  became  militant  opponents  of  the  new  regime's  radical 
policies. 

The  position  of  the  middle  class — traders  and  artisans — varied. 
Generally,  the  status  of  Muslim  traders  rose  after  the  new  regime 
disestablished  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church.  As  economic  con- 
ditions worsened  and  consumer  goods  became  scarce,  however, 
traders  became  scapegoats  and  subject  to  violent  attacks. 

Notwithstanding  allusions  to  the  proletariat's  revolutionary  role, 
the  urban  working  class — mainly  in  Addis  Ababa  and  its  envi- 
rons— gained  neither  status  nor  power.  The  military  government 
replaced  the  Confederation  of  Ethiopian  Labor  Unions  (CELU) 
with  the  All-Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (AETU)  when  the  CELU 
leadership  started  opposing  the  direction  of  the  revolution.  The 
AETU  focused  its  activities  on  supporting  the  government  policy 
of  emphasizing  production  rather  than  on  advancing  worker  rights. 
The  AETU — unlike  the  CELU — was  a  hierarchy  rather  than  a  con- 
federation; unions  at  the  base  accepted  policy  decisions  made  at 
higher  levels.  In  the  next  few  years,  the  government  had  difficulty 
enforcing  this  policy.  Deteriorating  economic  conditions  caused 
strikes  and  demonstrations.  In  addition,  violence  often  broke  out 
between  workers  and  government  officials  (see  Labor  Unions, 
ch.  3). 

The  urban  equivalents  of  the  peasant  associations  were  the  kebeles 
(see  Kebeles,  ch.  4).  Initially,  mid-  and  lower-level  bureaucrats  were 
elected  to  posts  in  these  associations,  but  the  military  government 
soon  purged  them  for  opposing  the  revolutionary  regime.  New  laws 
excluded  from  elective  office  for  one  year  those  who  had  owned 
rental  property  and  members  of  their  households.  Thus,  not  only 
were  the  wealthy  excluded  from  participation,  but  also  many 
middle-class  investors  who  had  built  and  rented  low-cost  housing 
and  who  were  far  from  rich  were  excluded  as  well.  This  exclu- 
sion also  deprived  many  students  and  other  young  people  of  a 
role  in  the  kebeles.  Those  who  worked  full  time  away  from  the  neigh- 
borhood tended  to  be  unwilling  to  take  on  kebele  positions.  Partly 
by  default  and  partly  with  the  PMAC's  encouragement,  elec- 
tions in  1976  filled  kebele  posts  with  (in  the  words  of  John  Mar- 
kakis  and  Nega  Ayele)  "persons  of  dubious  character,  indeterminate 
occupation,  busybodies  and  opportunists  of  all  sorts  ....  Militia 
units  [attached  to  the  urban  associations]  charged  with  local 
security  mustered  the  perennially  unemployed,  the  shiftless  and 
hangers-on,  young  toughs  and  delinquents,  who  were  in- 
stantly transformed  into  revolutionary  proletarian  fighters."  These 


113 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

individuals  perpetrated  crimes  against  people  they  disliked  or  dis- 
agreed with. 

The  kebeles  engaged  in  some  of  the  revolution's  most  brutal  blood- 
letting. Increasing  criticism  eventually  forced  the  regime  to  restrain 
them.  After  the  populace  recognized  the  PMAC's  permanence, 
more  people  participated  in  kebele  administration.  By  1990  the  kebeles 
were  part  of  the  grass-roots  WPE  organization. 

The  Role  of  Women 

There  have  been  few  studies  concerning  women  in  Ethiopia,  but 
many  observers  have  commented  on  the  physical  hardship  that 
Ethiopian  women  experience  throughout  their  lives.  Such  hard- 
ship involves  carrying  loads  over  long  distances,  grinding  corn 
manually,  working  in  the  homestead,  raising  children,  and  cook- 
ing. Ethiopian  women  traditionally  have  suffered  sociocultural  and 
economic  discrimination  and  have  had  fewer  opportunities  than 
men  for  personal  growth,  education,  and  employment.  Even  the 
civil  code  affirmed  the  woman's  inferior  position,  and  such  rights 
as  ownership  of  property  and  inheritance  varied  from  one  ethnic 
group  to  another. 

As  in  other  traditional  societies,  a  woman's  worth  is  measured 
in  terms  of  her  role  as  a  mother  and  wife.  Over  85  percent  of  Ethio- 
pian women  reside  in  rural  areas,  where  peasant  families  are  en- 
gaged primarily  in  subsistence  agriculture.  Rural  women  are 
integrated  into  the  rural  economy,  which  is  basically  labor  inten- 
sive and  which  exacts  a  heavy  physical  toll  on  all,  including  chil- 
dren. The  revolution  had  little  impact  on  the  lives  of  rural  women. 
Land  reform  did  not  change  their  subordinate  status,  which  was 
based  on  deep-rooted  traditional  values  and  beliefs.  An  improve- 
ment in  economic  conditions  would  improve  the  standard  of  liv- 
ing of  women,  but  real  change  would  require  a  transformation  of 
the  attitudes  of  governments  and  men  regarding  women. 

There  have  been  some  changes  for  women  in  urban  areas,  where 
education,  health  care,  and  employment  outside  the  home  have 
become  more  available.  Although  a  few  women  with  higher  edu- 
cation have  found  professional  employment,  most  hold  low-paying 
jobs.  About  40  percent  of  employed  women  in  urban  areas  worked 
in  the  service  sector,  mainly  in  hotels,  restaurants,  and  bars,  ac- 
cording to  a  1976  government  survey.  Employment  in  production 
and  related  areas  (such  as  textiles  and  food  processing)  accounted 
for  25  percent  of  the  female  work  force,  followed  by  sales,  which 
accounted  for  about  1 1  percent.  The  survey  also  showed  that  women 
factory  workers  in  Addis  Ababa  earned  about  a  quarter  of  the  wages 
men  earned  for  the  same  type  of  work.  These  differences  existed 


114 


The  Society  and  hs  Environment 


despite  a  1975  proclamation  stipulating  equal  pay  for  equal  work 
for  men  and  women. 

Following  the  revolution,  women  made  some  gains  in  economic 
and  political  areas.  The  Revolutionary  Ethiopia  Women's  Associ- 
ation (REWA),  which  claimed  a  membership  of  over  5  million, 
took  an  active  part  in  educating  women.  It  encouraged  the  crea- 
tion of  women's  organizations  in  factories,  local  associations,  and 
in  the  civil  service.  Some  women  participated  in  local  organiza- 
tions and  in  peasant  associations  and  kebeles.  However,  the  role  of 
women  was  limited  at  the  national  level.  In  1984,  for  example,  the 
government  selected  only  one  woman  as  a  full  member  of  the  Cen- 
tral Committee  of  the  WPE.  Of  the  2,000  delegates  who  attended 
the  WPE's  inaugural  congress  in  1984,  only  6  percent  were  women. 

On  a  more  positive  note,  the  Mengistu  regime  could  claim  suc- 
cess in  increasing  literacy  among  women  (see  Literacy,  this  ch.). 
The  enrollment  of  women  in  primary  and  secondary  schools  in- 
creased from  about  32  percent  in  1974/75  (Ethiopian  calendar 
year — see  Glossary)  to  39  percent  in  1985/86,  although  the  rate  of 
enrollment  of  urban  women  far  exceeded  the  rate  for  rural  women. 

Religious  Life 

The  1955  constitution  stated,  "The  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church, 
founded  in  the  fourth  century  on  the  doctrines  of  Saint  Mark,  is 
the  established  church  of  the  Empire  and  is,  as  such,  supported 
by  the  state."  The  church  was  the  bulwark  of  the  state  and  the 
monarchy  and  became  an  element  in  the  ethnic  identity  of  the 
dominant  Amhara  and  Tigray.  By  contrast,  Islam  spread  among 
ethnically  diverse  and  geographically  dispersed  groups  at  differ- 
ent times  and  therefore  failed  to  provide  the  same  degree  of  politi- 
cal unity  to  its  adherents.  Traditional  belief  systems  were  strongest 
in  the  lowland  regions,  but  elements  of  such  systems  characterized 
much  of  the  popular  religion  of  Christians  and  Muslims  as  well. 
Beliefs  and  rituals  varied  widely,  but  fear  of  the  evil  eye,  for  ex- 
ample, was  widespread  among  followers  of  all  religions. 

Officially,  the  imperial  regime  tolerated  Muslims.  For  example, 
the  government  retained  Muslim  courts,  which  dealt  with  family 
and  personal  law  according  to  Islamic  law.  However,  the  imperial 
authorities  gradually  took  over  Muslim  schools  and  discouraged 
the  teaching  of  Arabic.  Additionally,  the  behavior  of  Amhara  ad- 
ministrators in  local  communities  and  the  general  pattern  of  Chris- 
tian dominance  tended  to  alienate  Muslims. 

The  revolution  brought  a  major  change  in  the  official  status  of 
the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church  and  other  religions.  In  1975  the 
Mengistu  regime  disestablished  the  church,  which  was  a  substantial 


115 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

landholder  during  the  imperial  era,  and  early  the  next  year  removed 
its  patriarch.  The  PMAC  declared  that  all  religions  were  equal, 
and  a  number  of  Muslim  holy  days  became  official  holidays  in  ad- 
dition to  the  Christian  holidays  already  honored.  Despite  these 
changes,  divisions  between  Muslims  and  Christians  persisted. 

Demography  and  Geography  of  Religious  Affiliation 

Statistical  data  on  religious  affiliation,  like  those  on  ethnic  groups, 
are  unreliable.  Most  Orthodox  Christians  are  Amhara  and  Tigray, 
two  groups  that  together  constitute  more  than  40  percent  of  the 
population.  When  members  of  these  two  groups  are  combined  with 
others  who  have  accepted  Orthodoxy,  the  total  Christian  popula- 
tion might  come  to  roughly  50  percent  of  all  Ethiopians. 

Muslims  have  been  estimated  to  constitute  40  percent  of  the 
population.  The  largest  ethnic  group  associated  with  Islam  is  the 
Somali.  Several  other  much  smaller  Islamic  groups  include  the  Afar, 
Argobba,  Hareri,  Saho,  and  most  Tigre-speaking  groups  in  north- 
ern Eritrea  (see  Ethiopia's  Peoples,  this  ch.).  Oromo  also  consti- 
tute a  large  proportion  of  the  total  Muslim  population.  There  are 
also  Muslims  in  other  important  ethnic  categories,  e.g.,  the  Sidamo 
speakers  and  the  Gurage.  In  the  far  north  and  the  east,  and  to  some 
extent  in  the  south,  Islamic  peoples  surround  Orthodox  Christians. 

The  only  people  (variously  estimated  at  5  to  15  percent  of  the 
population)  who  have  had  little  if  any  contact  with  Orthodox  Chris- 
tianity or  Islam  live  in  the  far  south  and  the  west.  Included  among 
adherents  of  indigenous  religions  are  most  of  those  speaking  Nilo- 
Saharan  languages  and  many  of  those  speaking  Omotic  and  Cushitic, 
including  sections  of  the  Oromo,  such  as  the  pastoral  Borana.  It 
is  among  these  peoples  that  the  few  converts  to  missionary  Christi- 
anity— Protestant  and  Roman  Catholic — are  to  be  found. 

Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christianity 

John  Markakis  has  remarked  of  Ethiopia  that  "the  dominant 
element  in  this  culture  and  its  major  distinguishing  feature  is  the 
Christian  religion."  Yet  almost  all  of  the  analysis  of  Orthodox 
Christianity  as  practiced  by  Ethiopians  has  focused  on  the  Am- 
hara and  Tigray.  The  meaning  of  that  religion  for  the  Oromo  and 
others  is  not  clear.  For  some  Oromo  who  achieved  significant  po- 
litical power  in  Amhara  kingdoms  in  the  eighteenth  century  and 
after,  adherence  to  Christianity  seemed  to  be  motivated  by  noth- 
ing more  than  expediency. 

By  the  mid- twentieth  century,  some  educated  Amhara  and 
Tigray  had  developed  skepticism,  not  so  much  of  doctrine — 
although  that  also  occurred — as  of  the  church's  political  and 
economic  role.  They  had  developed  similar  feelings  toward  the 


116 


Worshipers  dressed  in  white  shammas  attend  a  service  at  Holy  Trinity 

Cathedral  in  Addis  Ababa. 
Courtesy  World  Vision  (Bruce  Brander) 

clergy,  most  of  whom  were  poorly  educated.  Nevertheless,  the  ef- 
fects of  the  church's  disestablishment  and  of  the  continuing  social 
upheaval  and  political  repression  impelled  many  Ethiopians  to  turn 
to  religion  for  solace. 

Organization  of  the  Church  and  the  Clergy 

The  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church's  headquarters  was  in  Addis 
Ababa.  The  boundaries  of  the  dioceses,  each  under  a  bishop,  fol- 
lowed provincial  boundaries;  a  patriarch  (abun)  headed  the  church. 
The  ultimate  authority  in  matters  of  faith  was  the  Episcopal  Synod. 
In  addition,  the  Church  Council,  a  consultative  body  that  included 
clergy  and  laity,  reviewed  and  drafted  administrative  policy. 

Beginning  in  1950,  the  choice  of  the  abun  passed  from  the  Cop- 
tic Church  of  Egypt  in  Alexandria  to  the  Episcopal  Synod  in  Ad- 
dis Ababa.  When  Abuna  Tewoflos  was  ousted  by  the  government 
in  1976,  the  church  announced  that  nominees  for  patriarch  would 
be  chosen  from  a  pool  of  bishops  and  monks — archbishops  were 
disqualified — and  that  the  successful  candidate  would  be  chosen 
on  the  basis  of  a  vote  by  clergy  and  laity.  The  new  abun  was  a  fifty- 
eight-year-old  monk  who  took  the  name  of  Tekla  Haimanot,  after 
a  fourteenth-century  Ethiopian  saint. 


117 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


From  the  Christian  peasant's  point  of  view,  the  important  church 
figures  are  the  local  clergy.  The  priest  has  the  most  significant  role. 
An  estimated  10  to  20  percent  of  adult  male  Amhara  and  Tigray 
were  priests  in  the  1960s — a  not  extraordinary  figure,  considering 
that  there  were  17,000  to  18,000  churches  and  that  the  celebration 
of  the  Eucharist  required  the  participation  of  at  least  two  priests 
and  three  deacons,  and  frequently  included  more.  Large  churches 
had  as  many  as  100  priests;  one  was  said  to  have  500. 

There  are  several  categories  of  clergy,  collectively  referred  to  as 
the  kahinat  (priests,  deacons,  and  some  monks)  and  the  debteras 
(priests  who  have  lost  their  ordination  because  they  are  no  longer 
ritually  pure,  or  individuals  who  have  chosen  not  to  enter  the  priest- 
hood). A  boy  between  the  ages  of  seven  and  ten  who  wishes  to  be- 
come a  deacon  joins  a  church  school  and  lives  with  his  teacher — a 
priest  or  debtera  who  has  achieved  a  specified  level  of  learning — 
and  fellow  students  near  a  church.  After  about  four  years  of  study, 
the  diocesan  bishop  ordains  him  a  deacon. 

After  three  or  four  years  of  service  and  additional  study,  a  dea- 
con can  apply  to  be  ordained  a  priest.  Before  doing  so,  he  has  to 
commit  himself  to  celibacy  or  else  get  married.  Divorce  and  remar- 
riage or  adultery  result  in  a  loss  of  ritual  purity  and  loss  of  one's 
ordination. 

A  priest's  chief  duty  is  to  celebrate  the  Eucharist,  a  task  to  which 
he  is  assigned  for  a  fixed  period  of  weeks  or  months  each  year.  He 
also  officiates  at  baptisms  and  funeral  services  and  attends  the  feasts 
(provided  by  laymen)  associated  with  these  and  other  events.  His 
second  important  task  is  to  act  as  confessor,  usually  by  arrange- 
ment with  specific  families. 

Most  priests  come  from  the  peasantry,  and  their  education  is 
limited  to  what  they  acquire  during  their  training  for  the  diaconate 
and  in  the  relatively  short  period  thereafter.  They  are,  however, 
ranked  according  to  their  learning,  and  some  acquire  far  more  re- 
ligious knowledge  than  others. 

Debteras  often  have  a  wider  range  of  learning  and  skills  than  what 
is  required  for  a  priest.  Debteras  act  as  choristers,  poets,  herbalists, 
astrologers,  fortune-tellers,  and  scribes  (for  those  who  cannot  read). 

Some  monks  are  laymen,  usually  widowers,  who  have  devoted 
themselves  to  a  pious  life.  Other  monks  undertake  a  celibate  life 
while  young  and  commit  themselves  to  advanced  religious  educa- 
tion. Both  kinds  of  monks  might  lead  a  hermit's  life,  but  many 
educated  monks  are  associated  with  the  great  monastic  centers, 
which  traditionally  were  the  sources  of  doctrinal  innovation  or  dis- 
pute that  had  sometimes  riven  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church. 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Nuns  are  relatively  few,  usually  older  women  who  perform  largely 
domestic  tasks  in  the  churches. 

Faith  and  Practice 

The  faith  and  practice  of  most  Orthodox  Christians  combine  ele- 
ments from  Monophysite  Christianity  as  it  has  developed  in  Ethio- 
pia over  the  centuries  and  from  a  non-Christian  heritage  rejected 
by  more  educated  church  members  but  usually  shared  by  the  or- 
dinary priest.  According  to  Monophysite  doctrine,  Christ  is  a  di- 
vine aspect  of  the  trinitarian  God.  Broadly,  the  Christian  elements 
are  God  (in  Amharic,  Egziabher),  the  angels,  and  the  saints.  A 
hierarchy  of  angelic  messengers  and  saints  conveys  the  prayers  of 
the  faithful  to  God  and  carries  out  the  divine  will.  When  an  Ethio- 
pian Christian  is  in  difficulty,  he  or  she  appeals  to  these  angels  and 
saints  as  well  as  to  God.  In  more  formal  and  regular  rituals,  priests 
communicate  on  behalf  of  the  community,  and  only  priests  may 
enter  the  inner  sanctum  of  the  usually  circular  or  octagonal  church 
where  the  ark  (tabot)  dedicated  to  the  church's  patron  saint  is  housed. 
On  important  religious  holidays,  the  ark  is  carried  on  the  head  of 
a  priest  and  escorted  in  procession  outside  the  church.  The  ark, 
not  the  church,  is  consecrated.  Only  those  who  feel  pure,  have  fasted 
regularly,  and  have  generally  conducted  themselves  properly  may 
enter  the  middle  ring  to  take  communion.  At  many  services,  most 
parish  members  remain  in  the  outer  ring,  where  debteras  sing  hymns 
and  dance. 

Weekly  services  constitute  only  a  small  part  of  an  Ethiopian  Or- 
thodox Christian's  religious  observance.  Several  holy  days  require 
prolonged  services,  singing  and  dancing,  and  feasting.  An  impor- 
tant religious  requirement,  however,  is  the  keeping  of  fast  days. 
Only  the  clergy  and  the  very  devout  maintain  the  full  schedule  of 
fasts,  comprising  250  days,  but  the  laity  is  expected  to  fast  165  days 
per  year,  including  every  Wednesday  and  Friday  and  the  two 
months  that  include  Lent  and  the  Easter  season. 

In  addition  to  standard  holy  days,  most  Christians  observe  many 
saint's  days.  A  man  might  give  a  small  feast  on  his  personal  saint's 
day.  The  local  voluntary  association  (called  the  maheber)  connected 
with  each  church  honors  its  patron  saint  with  a  special  service  and 
a  feast  two  or  three  times  a  year. 

Belief  in  the  existence  of  active  spirits — many  malevolent,  some 
benevolent — is  widespread  among  Ethiopians,  whether  Christian, 
Muslim,  or  pagan.  The  spirits  called  zar  can  be  male  or  female 
and  have  a  variety  of  personality  traits.  Many  peasants  believe  they 
can  prevent  misfortune  by  propitiating  the  zar. 


119 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  protective  adbar  spirits  belong  to  the  community  rather  than 
to  the  individual  or  family.  The  female  adbar  is  thought  to  protect 
the  community  from  disease,  misfortune,  and  poverty,  while  the 
male  adbar  is  said  to  prevent  fighting,  feuds,  and  war  and  to  bring 
good  harvests.  People  normally  pay  tribute  to  the  adbars  in  the  form 
of  honey,  grains,  and  butter. 

Myths  connected  with  the  evil  eye  (buda)  vary,  but  most  people 
believe  that  the  power  rests  with  members  of  lowly  occupational 
groups  who  interact  with  Amhara  communities  but  are  not  part 
of  them.  To  prevent  the  effects  of  the  evil  eye,  people  wear  amu- 
lets or  invoke  God's  name.  Because  one  can  never  be  sure  of  the 
source  of  illness  or  misfortune,  the  peasant  has  recourse  to  wiz- 
ards who  can  make  diagnoses  and  specify  cures.  Debteras  also  make 
amulets  and  charms  designed  to  ward  off  satanic  creatures. 

The  belief  system,  Christian  and  other,  of  peasant  and  priest 
was  consonant  with  the  prerevolutionary  social  order  in  its  stress 
on  hierarchy  and  order.  The  long-range  effects  on  this  belief  sys- 
tem of  a  Marxist- Leninist  regime  that  ostensibly  intended  to  de- 
stroy the  old  social  order  were  difficult  to  evaluate  in  mid- 1991. 
Even  though  the  regime  introduced  some  change  in  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  church  and  clergy,  it  was  not  likely  that  the  regime  had 
succeeded  in  significantly  modifying  the  beliefs  of  ordinary  Chris- 
tians. 

Islam 

Basic  Teachings  of  Islam 

Islam  is  a  system  of  religious  beliefs  and  an  all-encompassing 
way  of  life.  Muslims  believe  that  God  (Allah)  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Muhammad  the  rules  governing  society  and  the  proper  conduct 
of  society's  members.  Therefore,  it  is  incumbent  on  the  individ- 
ual to  live  in  a  manner  prescribed  by  the  revealed  law  and  incum- 
bent on  the  community  to  build  the  perfect  human  society  on  earth 
according  to  holy  injunctions.  Islam  recognizes  no  distinctions  be- 
tween church  and  state.  The  distinction  between  religious  and  secu- 
lar law  is  a  recent  development  that  reflects  the  more  pronounced 
role  of  the  state  in  society  and  of  Western  economic  and  cultural 
penetration.  Religion  has  a  greater  impact  on  daily  life  in  Muslim 
countries  than  it  has  had  in  the  largely  Christian  West  since  the 
Middle  Ages. 

Islam  came  to  Ethiopia  by  way  of  the  Arabian  Peninsula,  where 
in  A.D.  610,  Muhammad — a  merchant  of  the  Hashimite  branch 
of  the  ruling  Quraysh  tribe  in  the  Arabian  town  of  Mecca — began 
to  preach  the  first  of  a  series  of  revelations  he  said  had  been  granted 


120 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


him  by  God  through  the  angel  Gabriel.  A  fervent  monotheist, 
Muhammad  denounced  the  polytheism  of  his  fellow  Meccans.  Be- 
cause the  town's  economy  was  based  in  part  on  a  thriving  pilgrimage 
business  to  the  shrine  called  the  Kaaba  and  to  numerous  other  pagan 
religious  sites  in  the  area,  Muhammad's  censure  earned  him  the 
enmity  of  the  town's  leaders.  In  622  he  and  a  group  of  followers 
accepted  an  invitation  to  settle  in  the  town  of  Yathrib,  later  known 
as  Medina  (the  city),  because  it  was  the  center  of  Muhammad's 
activities.  The  move,  or  hijra,  known  in  the  West  as  the  hegira, 
marks  the  beginning  of  the  Islamic  era  and  of  Islam  as  a  force  in 
history;  indeed,  the  Muslim  calendar  begins  in  622.  In  Medina, 
Muhammad  continued  to  preach,  and  he  eventually  defeated 
his  detractors  in  battle.  He  consolidated  the  temporal  and  the  spiri- 
tual leadership  in  his  person  before  his  death  in  632.  After 
Muhammad's  death,  his  followers  compiled  those  of  his  words 
regarded  as  coming  directly  from  God  into  the  Quran,  the  holy 
scriptures  of  Islam.  Others  of  his  sayings  and  teachings,  recalled 
by  those  who  had  known  him,  became  the  hadith.  The  precedent 
of  Muhammad's  personal  behavior  is  called  the  sunna.  Together, 
these  works  form  a  comprehensive  guide  to  the  spiritual,  ethical, 
and  social  life  of  the  orthodox  Sunni  Muslim. 

The  duties  of  Muslims  form  the  five  pillars  of  Islam,  which  set 
forth  the  acts  necessary  to  demonstrate  and  reinforce  the  faith.  These 
are  the  recitation  of  the  shahada  ("There  is  no  god  but  God  [Allah], 
and  Muhammad  is  his  prophet."),  salat  (daily  prayer),  zakat  (alms- 
giving), sawm  (fasting),  and  hajj  (pilgrimage).  The  believer  is  to 
pray  in  a  prescribed  manner  after  purification  through  ritual  ab- 
lutions each  day  at  dawn,  midday,  midafternoon,  sunset,  and  night- 
fall. Prescribed  genuflections  and  prostrations  accompany  the 
prayers,  which  the  worshiper  recites  facing  toward  Mecca. 
Whenever  possible,  men  pray  in  congregation  at  the  mosque  with 
an  imam,  or  prayer  leader,  and  on  Fridays  they  make  a  special 
effort  to  do  so.  The  Friday  noon  prayers  provide  the  occasion  for 
weekly  sermons  by  religious  leaders.  Women  may  also  attend  public 
worship  at  the  mosque,  where  they  are  segregated  from  the  men, 
although  women  usually  pray  at  home.  A  special  functionary,  the 
muezzin,  intones  a  call  to  prayer  to  the  entire  community  at  the 
appropriate  hour.  Those  out  of  earshot  determine  the  time  by  the 
position  of  the  sun. 

The  ninth  month  of  the  Muslim  calendar  is  Ramadan,  a  period 
of  obligatory  fasting  in  commemoration  of  Muhammad's  receipt 
of  God's  revelation.  Throughout  the  month,  all  but  the  sick  and 
weak,  pregnant  or  lactating  women,  soldiers  on  duty,  travelers  on 
necessary  journeys,  and  young  children  are  enjoined  from  eating, 


121 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

drinking,  smoking,  or  sexual  intercourse  during  the  daylight  hours. 
Those  adults  who  are  excused  are  obliged  to  endure  an  equivalent 
fast  at  their  earliest  opportunity.  A  festive  meal  breaks  the  daily 
fast  and  inaugurates  a  night  of  feasting  and  celebration.  The  pious 
well-to-do  usually  perform  little  or  no  work  during  this  period,  and 
some  businesses  close  for  all  or  part  of  the  day.  Because  the  months 
of  the  lunar  year  revolve  through  the  solar  year,  Ramadan  falls 
at  various  seasons  in  different  years.  A  considerable  test  of  discipline 
at  any  time  of  the  year,  a  fast  that  falls  in  summertime  imposes 
severe  hardship  on  those  who  must  do  physical  work. 

All  Muslims,  at  least  once  in  their  lifetimes,  are  strongly  en- 
couraged to  make  the  hajj  to  Mecca  to  participate  in  special  rites 
held  there  during  the  twelfth  month  of  the  lunar  calendar.  Mu- 
hammad instituted  this  requirement,  modifying  pre-Islamic  cus- 
tom, to  emphasize  sites  associated  with  God  and  Abraham 
(Ibrahim),  considered  the  founder  of  monotheism  and  father  of  the 
Arabs  through  his  son  Ismail. 

Other  tenets  of  the  Muslim  faith  include  the  jihad  (holy  war) 
and  the  requirement  to  do  good  works  and  to  avoid  all  evil  thoughts, 
words,  and  deeds.  In  addition,  Muslims  agree  on  certain  basic  prin- 
ciples of  faith  based  on  the  teachings  of  the  Prophet  Muhammad: 
there  is  one  God,  who  is  a  unitary  divine  being,  in  contrast  to  the 
trinitarian  belief  of  Christians;  Muhammad,  the  last  of  a  line  of 
prophets  beginning  with  Abraham  and  including  Moses  (Musa) 
and  Jesus  (Isa),  was  chosen  by  God  to  present  His  message  to  hu- 
manity; and  there  is  to  be  a  general  resurrection  on  the  last,  or 
judgment,  day. 

During  his  lifetime,  Muhammad  was  spiritual  and  temporal 
leader  of  the  Muslim  community.  Religious  and  secular  law 
merged,  and  all  Muslims  traditionally  have  been  subject  to  sharia, 
or  religious  law.  A  comprehensive  legal  system,  sharia  developed 
gradually  through  the  first  four  centuries  of  the  Islamic  era,  primar- 
ily through  the  accretion  of  interpretations  and  precedents  set  by 
various  judges  and  scholars. 

After  Muhammad's  death,  Muslim  community  leaders  chose 
Abu  Bakr,  the  Prophet's  father-in-law  and  one  of  his  earliest  fol- 
lowers, to  succeed  him.  At  that  time,  some  persons  favored  Ali  ibn 
Abu  Talib,  Muhammad's  cousin  and  the  husband  of  his  daughter 
Fatima,  but  Ali  and  his  supporters  (the  Shiat  Ali,  or  Party  of  Ali) 
eventually  recognized  the  community's  choice.  The  next  two  caliphs 
(successors) — Umar,  who  succeeded  in  A.D.  634,  and  Uthman, 
who  took  power  in  644 — enjoyed  the  recognition  of  the  entire  com- 
munity. When  Ali  finally  succeeded  to  the  caliphate  in  656, 
Muawiyah,  governor  of  Syria,  rebelled  in  the  name  of  his  murdered 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


kinsman  Uthman.  After  the  ensuing  civil  war,  Ali  moved  his  cap- 
ital to  the  area  of  present-day  Iraq,  where  he  was  murdered  shortly 
thereafter. 

Ali's  death  ended  the  last  of  the  so-called  four  orthodox  caliphates 
and  the  period  in  which  the  entire  community  of  Islam  recognized 
a  single  caliph.  Muawiyah  proclaimed  himself  caliph  from  Damas- 
cus. The  Shiat  Ali  refused  to  recognize  him  or  his  line,  the  Umayyad 
caliphs,  and  withdrew  in  the  great  schism  to  establish  the  dissi- 
dent sect,  known  as  the  Shia,  who  supported  the  claims  of  Ali's 
line  to  the  caliphate  based  on  descent  from  the  Prophet.  The  larger 
faction,  the  Sunnis,  adhered  to  the  position  that  the  caliph  must 
be  elected,  and  over  the  centuries  they  have  represented  themselves 
as  the  orthodox  branch. 

Early  in  Islam's  history  the  Sufism  movement  emerged.  It 
stressed  the  possibility  of  emotional  closeness  to  God  and  mystical 
knowledge  of  God  in  contrast  to  the  intellectual  and  legalistic  em- 
phasis of  orthodox  Sunni  theology.  By  the  twelfth  century,  this  ten- 
dency had  taken  a  number  of  forms.  Orders,  each  emphasizing 
specific  disciplines  (ways)  of  achieving  that  closeness  and  knowledge, 
were  organized.  Disdained  by  orthodox  Islamic  theologians,  Sufi 
orders  nevertheless  became  an  integral  part  of  Islam,  although  their 
importance  varied  regionally. 

Local  Character  of  Belief  and  Practice 

Ethiopian  Muslims  are  adherents  of  the  dominant  Sunni,  or  or- 
thodox, branch  of  Islam.  Shia  are  not  represented  in  Ethiopia.  The 
beliefs  and  practices  of  Ethiopian  Muslims  are  embodied  in  a  more 
or  less  integrated  amalgam  of  three  elements:  the  Islam  of  the  Quran 
and  the  sharia,  the  worship  of  saints  and  the  rituals  and  organiza- 
tion of  religious  orders,  and  the  still-important  remnant  of  pre- 
Islamic  patterns.  Islam  in  the  traditional  sense  is  dominant  only 
on  the  Eritrean  coast  among  Arab  and  Arab-influenced  popula- 
tions and  in  Harer  and  a  few  other  towns. 

In  general,  the  most  important  practices  of  the  Islamic  faith,  par- 
ticularly regular  prayer  and  fasting  during  the  month  of  Ramadan, 
are  observed  in  urban  centers  rather  than  in  the  smaller  towns  and 
villages  and  more  among  settled  peoples  than  among  nomads. 
Records  of  the  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  by  Ethiopian  Muslims  are 
scarce. 

Under  Haile  Selassie,  Muslim  communities  could  bring  mat- 
ters of  personal  and  family  law  and  inheritance  before  Islamic 
courts;  many  did  so  and  probably  continued  to  do  so  under  the 
revolutionary  regime.  However,  many  Muslims  dealt  with  such 
matters  in  terms  of  customary  law.  For  example,  the  Somali  and 


123 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

other  pastoralists  tended  not  to  follow  the  requirement  that  daugh- 
ters inherit  half  as  much  property  as  sons,  particularly  when 
livestock  was  at  issue.  In  parts  of  Eritrea,  the  tendency  to  treat  land 
as  the  corporate  property  of  a  descent  group  (lineage  or  clan) 
precluded  following  the  Islamic  principle  of  division  of  property 
among  one's  heirs. 

In  Ethiopia's  Muslim  communities,  as  in  neighboring  Sudan  and 
Somalia,  the  faithful  are  associated  with,  but  not  necessarily  mem- 
bers of,  specific  orders.  Nevertheless,  although  formal  and  infor- 
mal attachment  to  Sufi  orders  is  widespread,  the  emphasis  is  less 
on  contemplative  and  disciplined  mysticism  than  on  the  powers 
of  the  founders  and  other  leaders  of  local  branches  of  the  orders. 
Most  believe  that  these  persons  possess  extraordinary  powers  to 
intercede  with  God  and  have  the  ability  to  promote  the  fertility 
of  women  and  cure  illness.  In  many  cases,  these  individuals  are 
recognized  as  saints.  People  visit  their  tombs  to  pray  for  their  help 
or  their  intercession  with  God. 

Indigenous  Religions 

Among  indigenous  religious  systems,  the  names  of  certain  dei- 
ties and  spirits  recur  frequently,  especially  among  groups  speak- 
ing related  languages.  Certain  features  of  these  traditional  belief 
systems  are  broadly  similar — for  example,  the  existence  of  a 
supreme  god  identified  with  the  sky  and  relatively  remote  from  the 
everyday  concerns  of  the  people  and  addressed  through  spirits.  Sur- 
face similarities  notwithstanding,  the  configuration  of  the  accepted 
roster  of  spirits,  the  rituals  addressed  to  them,  the  social  units  (some 
based  on  the  territorial  community,  others  on  common  descent, 
generation,  or  sex)  participating  in  specific  rituals,  and  the  nature 
and  functions  of  religious  specialists  are  peculiar  to  each  ethnic 
group  or  subsection.  Common  to  almost  all  indigenous  systems 
is  a  range  of  spirits,  some  closely  resembling  in  name  and  func- 
tion the  spirits  recognized  by  neighboring  Christians  or  Muslims. 

Among  the  Oromo,  especially  those  not  fully  Christianized,  there 
is  a  belief  in  a  supreme  god  called  Waka,  represented  by  spirits 
known  as  ayanas.  The  ayanas  are  mediators  between  the  high  god 
and  human  beings  and  are  themselves  approached  through  the  kallu, 
a  ritual  specialist  capable  of  being  possessed  by  these  spirits.  The 
kallu  is  said  to  communicate  directly  with  Waka  and  bless  the  com- 
munity in  his  name.  By  contrast,  some  pastoral  Oromo,  such  as 
the  Guji  and  Borana,  are  regarded  as  monotheists. 

Foreign  Missions 

In  a  1944  decree,  Haile  Selassie  forbade  missionaries  from  at- 
tempting to  convert  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Christians,  and  they  had 


124 


Priest  conducting  a 
service  at  a  church 
in  Debre  Markos 
Courtesy  United  Nations  (Y.  Levy) 


little  success  in  proselytizing  among  Muslims.  Most  missionaries 
focused  their  activities  on  adherents  of  local  religions — but  still  with 
only  little  success.  In  the  1960s,  there  were  about  900  foreign  mis- 
sionaries in  Ethiopia,  but  many  were  laypersons.  This  fact  was  con- 
sistent with  the  emphasis  of  many  such  missions  on  the  education 
and  vocational  training  of  the  people  they  sought  to  serve.  One 
obstacle  to  the  missions'  success  in  the  rural  areas  may  have  been 
the  imperial  government's  insistence  that  Amharic  be  used  as  the 
medium  of  religious  instruction  except  in  the  earliest  stages  of  mis- 
sionary activity.  There  was  also  some  evidence  that  Ethiopian  Or- 
thodox priests  residing  outside  the  Amhara  and  Tigray  heartland, 
as  well  as  local  administrators,  were  hostile  to  the  missionaries. 

In  the  late  1960s,  there  were  350,000  to  400,000  Protestants  and 
Catholics  in  Ethiopia,  roughly  1.5  percent  of  the  population.  About 
36  percent  of  these  were  Catholics,  divided  among  those  adhering 
to  the  Ethiopian  rite  (about  60  percent)  and  those  following  the 
Latin  rite.  The  three  bishops  were  Ethiopians.  Protestants  were 
divided  among  a  number  of  denominations.  The  largest,  nearly 
equaling  in  number  the  size  of  the  Catholic  congregation,  consisted 
of  adherents  to  the  Fellowship  of  Evangelical  Believers,  the  Ethio- 
pian branch  of  the  Sudan  Interior  Mission.  The  next  largest  group, 
about  half  as  large,  was  the  Ethiopian  Evangelical  Church  Mekane 
Yesus,  an  entity  that  was  fostered  jointly  by  Scandinavian,  Ger- 
man, and  American  Lutheran  groups.  This  group  claimed  400,000 


125 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

members  in  the  late  1970s  and  had  an  Ethiopian  head.  Several  other 
groups,  including  the  Bethel  Evangelical  Church  (sponsored  by  the 
American  United  Presbyterian  Church)  and  the  Seventh-Day  Ad- 
ventists,  had  between  5,000  and  15,000  members  each. 

Many  missionaries  and  other  observers  claimed  that  the  revolu- 
tionary regime  opposed  missions  and  harassed  the  clergy  and  com- 
municants. Although  the  government  denied  these  accusations,  its 
approach  to  those  accused  of  not  accepting  its  authority  suggests 
that  the  mission  churches  and  the  regime  had  not  reached  a  modus 
vivendi. 

Education 

Education  in  Ethiopia  was  oriented  toward  religious  learning  until 
after  World  War  II,  when  the  government  began  to  emphasize  secu- 
lar learning  as  a  means  to  achieve  social  mobility  and  national  de- 
velopment. By  1974,  despite  efforts  by  the  government  to  improve 
the  situation,  less  than  10  percent  of  the  total  population  was  liter- 
ate. There  were  several  reasons  for  this  lack  of  progress.  Accord- 
ing to  Teshome  G.  Wagaw,  a  former  educator  at  Haile  Selassie 
I  University,  the  primary  failure  of  the  education  system  was  its 
inability  to  "satisfy  the  aspirations  of  the  majority  of  the  people 
and  to  prepare  in  any  adequate  way  those  passing  through  its 
ranks."  Teshome  described  the  system  as  elitist,  inflexible,  and 
unresponsive  to  local  needs.  He  was  equally  critical  of  the  distri- 
bution of  educational  opportunity,  which  favored  a  few  adminis- 
trative regions  and  urban  centers  at  the  expense  of  a  predominantly 
illiterate  rural  population.  The  education  system  also  suffered  from 
inadequate  financing. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  problems  Ethiopians  faced  in  making  their 
education  system  responsive  to  national  needs  remained  formida- 
ble. Social  and  political  change  had  affected  many  traditional  ele- 
ments of  national  life,  but  it  was  too  soon  to  predict  what  effect 
the  changes  would  have  on  the  progress  of  education. 

Education  During  Imperial  Rule 

Until  the  early  1900s,  formal  education  was  confined  to  a  sys- 
tem of  religious  instruction  organized  and  presented  under  the  aegis 
of  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church.  Church  schools  prepared  in- 
dividuals for  the  clergy  and  for  other  religious  duties  and  positions. 
In  the  process,  these  schools  also  provided  religious  education  to 
the  children  of  the  nobility  and  to  the  sons  of  limited  numbers  of 
tenant  farmers  and  servants  associated  with  elite  families.  Such 
schools  mainly  served  Amhara  and  Tigray  inhabitants  of  the  cen- 
tral highlands.  Toward  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Menelik 


126 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


II  had  also  permitted  the  establishment  of  European  missionary 
schools.  At  the  same  time,  Islamic  schools  provided  some  educa- 
tion for  a  small  part  of  the  Muslim  population. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  education  sys- 
tem's failure  to  meet  the  needs  of  people  involved  in  statecraft, 
diplomacy,  commerce,  and  industry  led  to  the  introduction  of 
government-sponsored  secular  education.  The  first  public  school 
was  established  in  Addis  Ababa  in  1907,  and  a  year  later  a  primary 
school  opened  in  Harer.  Foreign  languages,  elementary  mathemat- 
ics, and  rudimentary  science  were  taught  in  French  to  a  limited 
number  of  students,  along  with  Amharic  and  religious  subjects. 

In  1925  the  government  adopted  a  plan  to  expand  secular  edu- 
cation, but  ten  years  later  there  were  only  8,000  students  enrolled 
in  twenty  public  schools.  A  few  students  also  studied  abroad  on 
government  scholarships.  Schools  closed  during  the  Italian  occu- 
pation of  1936-41.  After  the  restoration  of  Ethiopian  independence, 
schools  reopened,  but  the  system  faced  shortages  of  teachers,  text- 
books, and  facilities.  The  government  recruited  foreign  teachers 
for  primary  and  secondary  schools  to  offset  the  teacher  shortage. 
By  1952  a  total  of  60,000  students  were  enrolled  in  400  primary 
schools,  eleven  secondary  schools,  and  three  institutions  offering 
college-level  courses.  In  the  1960s,  310  mission  and  privately  oper- 
ated schools  with  an  enrollment  of  52,000  supplemented  the  coun- 
try's public  school  system. 

In  May  1961,  Ethiopia  hosted  the  United  Nations-sponsored 
Conference  of  African  States  on  the  Development  of  Education. 
Among  other  things,  the  conference  highlighted  Ethiopia's  educa- 
tional deficiencies.  The  Ethiopian  education  system,  especially  in 
primary  and  secondary  education,  was  ranked  at  the  bottom  among 
African  nations.  There  were  school  and  teacher  shortages,  a  high 
dropout  rate,  and  low  overall  attendance  rates  (about  10  percent 
among  all  school-age  children  in  the  country),  especially  among 
females,  non-Christians,  and  rural  children.  Embarrassed  by  this 
record,  the  Ministry  of  Education  developed  a  new  education  policy, 
which  was  in  effect  until  1974.  Designed  in  conjunction  with  the 
objectives  of  the  government's  second  and  third  five-year  develop- 
ment plans,  extending  from  1962  to  1973,  the  policy  gave  prece- 
dence to  the  establishment  of  technical  training  schools,  although 
academic  education  also  was  expanded.  Curriculum  revisions  in- 
troduced a  mix  of  academic  and  nonacademic  subjects.  But  Am- 
haric became  the  language  of  instruction  for  the  entire  primary 
cycle,  which  handicapped  any  child  who  had  a  different  primary 
language. 


127 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Under  the  revised  system,  the  two-year  junior  secondary  schools 
offered  a  general  academic  program  for  individuals  who  wished 
to  continue  their  education.  A  number  of  vocational  subjects  pre- 
pared others  to  enter  technical  or  vocational  schools.  Some  practi- 
cal experience  in  the  use  of  tools  was  provided,  which  qualified 
graduates  as  semiskilled  workers.  The  curriculum  in  the  four-year 
senior  secondary  schools  prepared  students  for  higher  education 
in  Ethiopia  or  abroad.  Successful  completion  of  the  cycle  also  quali- 
fied some  for  specialized  agricultural  or  industrial  institutes.  Others 
were  qualified  for  intermediate  positions  in  the  civil  service,  the 
armed  forces,  or  private  enterprises. 

There  were  two  institutions  of  higher  education:  Haile  Selassie 
I  University  in  Addis  Ababa,  formed  by  imperial  charter  in  1961 , 
and  the  private  University  of  Asmera,  founded  by  a  Roman  Catho- 
lic religious  order  based  in  Italy. 

Between  1961  and  1971,  the  government  expanded  the  public 
school  system  more  than  fourfold,  and  it  declared  universal  primary 
education  a  long-range  objective.  In  1971  there  were  1,300  primary 
and  secondary  schools  and  13,000  teachers,  and  enrollment  had 
reached  600,000.  In  addition,  many  families  sent  their  children 
to  schools  operated  by  missionary  groups  and  private  agencies.  But 
the  system  suffered  from  a  shortage  of  qualified  personnel,  a  lack 
of  funds,  and  overcrowded  facilities.  Often  financed  with  foreign 
aid,  school  construction  usually  proceeded  faster  than  the  training 
and  certification  of  teachers.  Moreover,  many  teachers  did  not  stay 
long  in  the  profession.  Sources  such  as  the  United  States  Peace 
Corps  and  teachers  from  the  National  Service  program  (univer- 
sity students  who  taught  for  one  year  after  completing  their  junior 
year)  served  only  as  stopgaps.  In  addition,  most  schools  were  in 
the  major  towns.  Crowded  and  understaffed,  those  schools  in  small 
towns  and  rural  areas  provided  a  poor  education. 

The  inadequacies  of  public  education  before  the  mid-1970s  re- 
sulted partly  from  the  school  financing  system.  To  finance  primary 
education,  the  government  levied  a  special  tax  on  agricultural  land. 
Local  boards  of  education  supervised  the  disbursement  of  tax  re- 
ceipts. (The  central  government  financed  secondary  and  higher  edu- 
cation.) The  system's  inequities  fostered  the  expansion  of  primary 
education  in  wealthier  regions  rather  than  in  poorer  ones.  More- 
over, urban  inhabitants,  who  did  not  have  to  pay  the  tax  but  who 
were  predominantly  represented  in  the  schools,  sent  their  children 
at  the  expense  of  the  taxpaying  rural  landowners  and  poor  peasants. 
The  government  attempted  to  rectify  this  imbalance  in  1970  by 
imposing  an  education  tax  on  urban  landowners  and  a  2  percent 
tax  on  the  personal  income  of  urban  residents.  But  the  Ministry 


128 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  Finance  treated  the  funds  collected  as  part  of  the  general  revenue 
and  never  spent  the  money  for  its  intended  purpose. 

Despite  the  fact  that  money  spent  on  education  increased  from 
10  percent  of  total  government  expenditures  in  1968  to  20  percent 
in  the  early  1970s,  funding  remained  inadequate.  Expenditure  on 
education  was  only  1.4  to  3  percent  of  the  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary)  between  1968  and  1974,  compared  with  2.5 
to  6  percent  for  other  African  countries  during  the  same  period. 

Under  the  pressure  of  growing  public  dissatisfaction  and  mount- 
ing student  activism  in  the  university  and  secondary  schools,  the 
imperial  government  initiated  a  comprehensive  study  of  the  edu- 
cation system.  Completed  in  July  1972,  the  Education  Sector 
Review  (ESR)  recommended  attaining  universal  primary  educa- 
tion as  quickly  and  inexpensively  as  possible,  ruralizing  the  cur- 
ricula through  the  inclusion  of  informal  training,  equalizing 
educational  opportunities,  and  relating  the  entire  system  to  the  na- 
tional development  process. 

The  ESR  criticized  the  education  system's  focus  on  preparing 
students  for  the  next  level  of  academic  study  and  on  the  comple- 
tion of  rigid  qualifying  examinations.  Also  criticized  was  the  govern- 
ment's lack  of  concern  for  the  young  people  who  dropped  out  before 
learning  marketable  skills,  a  situation  that  contributed  to  unem- 
ployment. The  report  stated  that,  by  contrast,  "The  recommend- 
ed system  would  provide  a  self-contained  program  at  each  level 
that  would  be  terminal  for  most  students." 

The  report  was  not  published  until  February  1974,  which  gave 
time  for  rumors  to  generate  opposition  among  students,  parents, 
and  the  teachers'  union  to  the  ESR  recommendations.  Most  re- 
sented what  they  considered  the  removal  of  education  from  its  elite 
position.  Many  teachers  also  feared  salary  reductions.  Strikes  and 
widespread  disturbances  ensued,  and  the  education  crisis  became 
a  contributing  factor  in  the  imperial  regime's  fall  later  that  year. 

Primary  and  Secondary  Education  since  1975 

After  the  overthrow  of  imperial  rule,  the  provisional  military 
government  dismantled  the  feudal  socioeconomic  structure  through 
a  series  of  reforms  that  also  affected  educational  development.  By 
early  1975,  the  government  had  closed  Haile  Selassie  I  University 
and  all  senior  secondary  schools  and  had  deployed  some  60,000 
students  and  teachers  to  rural  areas  to  participate  in  the  govern- 
ment's Development  Through  Cooperation  Campaign  (commonly 
referred  to  as  zemecha — see  Glossary).  The  campaign's  stated  pur- 
poses were  to  promote  land  reform  and  improve  agricultural 


129 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

production,  health,  and  local  administration  and  to  teach  peasants 
about  the  new  political  and  social  order. 

In  1975  the  new  regime  nationalized  all  private  schools,  except 
church-affiliated  ones,  and  made  them  part  of  the  public  school 
system.  Additionally,  the  government  reorganized  Haile  Selassie 
I  University  and  renamed  it  Addis  Ababa  University.  It  also  in- 
itiated reforms  of  the  education  system  based  partly  on  ESR  recom- 
mendations and  partly  on  the  military  regime's  socialist  ideology. 
However,  no  meaningful  education  occurred  (except  at  the  primary 
level)  from  1975  to  1978  because  of  the  social  turmoil,  which  pit- 
ted the  regime  against  numerous  opposition  forces,  including 
students. 

Beginning  in  1975,  a  new  education  policy  emphasized  improving 
learning  opportunities  in  the  rural  areas  as  a  means  of  increasing 
economic  productivity.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the  education  system  was 
still  based  on  a  structure  of  primary,  secondary,  and  higher  edu- 
cation levels,  much  as  it  was  during  the  imperial  regime.  However, 
the  government's  objective  was  to  establish  an  eight-year  unified 
education  system  at  the  primary  level.  Preliminary  to  implement- 
ing this  program,  officials  tested  a  new  curriculum  in  seventy  pilot 
schools.  This  curriculum  emphasized  expanded  opportunities  for 
nonacademic  training.  The  new  approach  also  decentralized  con- 
trol and  operation  of  primary  and  secondary  schools  to  the  sub- 
regional  level,  where  the  curriculum  addressed  local  requirements. 
In  each  case,  committees  drawn  from  the  peasant  associations  and 
kebeles  and  augmented  by  at  least  one  teacher  and  one  student  over 
the  age  of  sixteen  from  each  school  administered  the  public  schools. 
Students  used  free  textbooks  in  local  languages.  In  late  1978,  the 
government  expanded  the  program  to  include  nine  languages,  and 
it  adopted  plans  to  add  five  others. 

There  were  also  changes  in  the  distribution  and  number  of  schools 
and  the  size  and  composition  of  the  student  body.  The  military 
regime  worked  toward  a  more  even  distribution  of  schools  by  con- 
centrating its  efforts  on  small  towns  and  rural  areas  that  had  been 
neglected  during  the  imperial  regime.  With  technical  assistance  from 
the  Ministry  of  Education,  individual  communities  performed  all 
primary  school  construction.  In  large  part  because  of  such  com- 
munity involvement,  the  number  of  primary  schools  grew  from 
3,196  in  1974/75  to  7,900  in  1985/86  (the  latest  years  for  which 
figures  were  available  in  mid- 1991),  an  average  increase  of  428 
schools  annually  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  The  number  of  primary 
schools  increased  significantly  in  all  regions  except  three,  includ- 
ing Eritrea  and  Tigray,  where  there  was  a  decline  because  of  con- 
tinuing insurgencies.  In  Addis  Ababa,  the  number  of  primary 


130 


Students  in  a  school  near  Holeta 
Courtesy  International  Development  Association  (Ray  Muldoon) 

schools  declined  because  of  the  closure  or  absorption  of  nongovern- 
ment schools,  especially  religious  ones,  into  the  government  sys- 
tem. 

Primary  school  enrollment  increased  from  about  957,300  in 
1974/75  to  nearly  2,450,000  in  1985/86.  There  were  stiU  variations 
among  regions  in  the  number  of  students  enrolled  and  a  disparity 
in  the  enrollment  of  boys  and  girls.  Nevertheless,  while  the  enroll- 
ment of  boys  more  than  doubled,  that  of  girls  more  than  tripled 
(see  table  6,  Appendix).  Urban  areas  had  a  higher  ratio  of  chil- 
dren enrolled  in  schools,  as  well  as  a  higher  proportion  of  female 
students,  compared  with  rural  areas. 

The  number  of  junior  secondary  schools  almost  doubled,  with 
fourfold  increases  in  Gojam,  Kefa,  and  Welega.  Most  junior  secon- 
dary schools  were  attached  to  primary  schools. 

The  number  of  senior  secondary  schools  almost  doubled  as  well, 
with  fourfold  increases  in  Arsi,  Bale,  Gojam,  Gonder,  and  Welo. 
The  prerevolutionary  distribution  of  schools  had  shown  a  concen- 
tration in  the  urban  areas  of  a  few  administrative  regions.  In  1974/ 
75  about  55  percent  of  senior  secondary  schools  were  in  Eritrea 
and  Shewa,  including  Addis  Ababa.  In  1985/86  the  figure  was  down 
to  40  percent.  Although  there  were  significantly  fewer  girls  enrolled 
at  the  secondary  level,  the  proportion  of  females  in  the  school  system 


131 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

at  all  levels  and  in  all  regions  increased  from  about  32  percent  in 
1974/75  to  39  percent  in  1985/86. 

The  number  of  teachers  also  increased,  especially  in  senior  secon- 
dary schools  (see  table  7 ,  Appendix).  However,  this  increase  had 
not  kept  pace  with  student  enrollment.  The  student- teacher  ratio 
went  from  forty-four  to  one  in  1975  to  fifty-four  to  one  in  1983 
in  primary  schools  and  also  increased  from  thirty-five  to  one  in 
1975  to  forty-four  to  one  in  1983  in  secondary  schools. 

Although  the  government  achieved  impressive  improvements  in 
primary  and  secondary  education,  prospects  for  universal  educa- 
tion in  the  near  future  were  not  bright.  In  1985/86,  the  latest  year 
for  which  government  statistics  were  available,  enrollment  in  the 
country's  primary,  junior  secondary,  and  senior  secondary  schools 
totaled  3.1  million  students,  up  from  the  nearly  785,000  enrolled 
a  decade  earlier.  Only  about  2.5  million  (42  percent)  of  the  6  mil- 
lion primary  school-age  children  were  enrolled  in  school  in  1985/86. 
Junior  secondary  school  enrollments  (grades  seven  and  eight) 
amounted  to  363,000,  while  at  the  secondary  school  level  (grades 
nine  through  twelve),  only  292,385  out  of  5.5  million,  or  5.3  per- 
cent, attended  school.  In  addition,  prospects  for  continued  study 
for  most  primary  school  graduates  were  slim.  In  1985/86  there  was 
only  one  junior  secondary  school  for  every  eight  primary  schools 
and  only  one  senior  secondary  school  for  every  four  junior  secon- 
dary schools.  There  were  many  primary  school  students  for  whom 
space  would  not  be  available  and  who  therefore  would  most  likely 
end  up  on  the  job  market,  where  work  already  was  scarce  for  peo- 
ple with  limited  educations. 

School  shortages  also  resulted  in  crowding,  a  situation  aggra- 
vated by  the  rural-urban  influx  of  the  late  1980s.  Most  schools  oper- 
ated on  a  morning  and  afternoon  shift  system,  particularly  in  urban 
areas.  A  teacher  shortage  exacerbated  the  problems  created  by 
crowded  classrooms.  In  addition  to  these  problems  were  those  of 
the  destruction  and  looting  of  educational  facilities  as  a  result  of 
fighting  in  northern  regions.  By  1990/91  destruction  was  especially 
severe  in  Eritrea,  Tigray,  and  Gonder,  but  looting  of  schools  was 
reported  in  other  parts  of  the  country  as  well. 

Higher  and  Vocational  Education  since  1975 

In  1977  the  revolutionary  regime  issued  Proclamation  No.  109, 
which  created  the  Commission  for  Higher  Education.  This  docu- 
ment also  outlined  the  main  objectives  of  higher  education  insti- 
tutions as  follows:  to  train  individuals  for  high-level  positions  in 
accordance  with  the  national  plan  of  development  and  to  provide 
qualified  medium-level  personnel  to  meet  the  immediate  needs  of 


132 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  economy;  to  improve  the  quality  of  education,  strengthen  and 
expand  tertiary-level  institutions,  and  establish  new  research  and 
training  centers;  and  to  contribute  to  a  better  standard  of  living 
among  the  masses  by  developing  science,  technology,  the  arts,  and 
literature. 

Additionally,  Addis  Ababa  reoriented  institutions  of  higher  edu- 
cation to  reflect  the  new  regime's  objectives  and  modified  admis- 
sion criteria  to  benefit  students  from  small  towns  and  rural  areas. 
But  the  government  also  assigned  many  students  to  specialize  in 
certain  fields,  which  denied  them  the  opportunity  to  decide  on 
careers  of  their  choosing. 

Higher  education  expanded  modestly  in  the  period  after  1975. 
The  College  of  Agriculture  at  Alemaya,  which  was  part  of  Addis 
Ababa  University,  was  granted  independent  university  status  in 
1985.  A  postgraduate  studies  program  was  established  in  1978, 
which  had  an  enrollment  of  246  students  in  1982/83,  of  whom  fifteen 
were  women.  Graduate  programs  were  offered  in  several  fields, 
including  engineering,  natural  science,  agriculture,  the  social  sci- 
ences, and  medicine.  Several  research  institutes  supported  these 
institutions  of  higher  education.  Addis  Ababa  University  also  pro- 
vided an  evening  extension  program  offering  courses  in  many  fields. 

Other  diploma- granting  independent  colleges  trained  middle-level 
manpower  in  several  fields.  These  included  the  College  of  Teacher 
Education,  the  Junior  College  of  Commerce,  and  the  Municipal 
Technical  College,  all  in  Addis  Ababa.  There  were  also  junior  col- 
leges of  agriculture  in  Ambo  and  Jima,  the  Institute  of  Animal 
Health  Assistants  in  Debre  Zeyit,  and  the  Institute  of  Health 
Sciences  in  Jima.  Altogether,  there  were  approximately  twelve  col- 
leges or  universities  in  the  country  in  the  early  1990s,  with  intense 
competition  among  students  for  admission. 

Enrollment  in  higher  education  grew  from  4,500  in  1970  to  more 
than  18,400  in  1985/86,  of  whom  nearly  11  percent  were  women. 
But  enrollment  was  low,  considering  the  size  of  the  population. 
Space  limitations  at  the  colleges  and  universities  caused  the  govern- 
ment to  raise  admission  standards.  To  narrow  the  gap  somewhat, 
the  number  of  students  sent  abroad  on  scholarships  and  fellowships 
grew  from  an  annual  average  of  433  during  1969-73  to  about  1 ,200 
during  1978-82. 

The  number  of  Ethiopians  on  teaching  staffs  also  grew.  The 
faculty  of  Addis  Ababa  University  increased  from  437  in  1970  to 
1,296  in  1983,  with  a  corresponding  increase  in  Ethiopian  faculty 
from  48  percent  to  74  percent  of  this  total  during  the  same  period. 

There  was  also  more  emphasis  on  the  creation  of  technical  and 
vocational  schools,  most  of  which  were  operated  by  the  government. 


133 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Ministry  of  Education  operated  or  supervised  nine  such  schools 
scattered  around  the  country.  These  schools  had  an  enrollment  of 
more  than  4,200  in  1985/86,  and  their  graduates  were  in  great  de- 
mand by  industries.  With  Soviet  assistance,  Ethiopia  established 
its  first  polytechnic  institute,  in  Bahir  Dar,  in  the  1960s.  It  trained 
personnel  in  agromechanics,  industrial  chemistry,  electricity,  and 
textile  and  metal-working  technology.  In  addition,  a  system  of 
general  polytechnic  education  had  been  introduced  into  the  senior 
secondary  school  curriculum  so  that  those  who  did  not  continue 
their  education  still  could  venture  into  the  skilled  job  market. 

The  government  also  introduced  vocational  training  to  upgrade 
peasant  skills.  The  peasant  training  centers,  operated  by  the  Minis- 
try of  Agriculture,  provided  training  in  vocational  trades  related 
to  agriculture  for  periods  ranging  from  three  weeks  to  six  months. 
The  country  had  twelve  such  centers,  which  trained  more  than 
200,000  farmers  from  1974  to  1988. 

Literacy 

Among  the  revolutionary  regime's  few  successes  was  the  national 
literacy  campaign.  The  literacy  rate,  under  10  percent  during  the 
imperial  regime,  increased  to  about  63  percent  by  1984,  accord- 
ing to  government  figures.  Others  sources,  however,  estimated  it 
at  around  37  percent.  In  1990/91  an  adult  literacy  rate  of  just  over 
60  percent  was  still  being  reported  in  government  as  well  as  in  some 
international  reports.  As  with  the  1984  data,  it  several  wise  to  ex- 
ercise caution  with  regard  to  the  latest  figure.  As  some  observers 
pointed  out,  defining  just  what  the  term  ''literacy"  means  presented 
a  problem;  in  addition,  the  military  government's  desire  to  report 
as  high  a  literacy  rate  as  possible  had  to  be  taken  into  account. 

The  national  literacy  campaign  began  in  early  1975  when  the 
government  mobilized  more  than  60,000  students  and  teachers, 
sending  them  all  over  the  country  for  two-year  terms  of  service. 
This  experience  was  crucial  to  the  creation  in  1979  of  the  National 
Literacy  Campaign  Coordinating  Committee  (NLCCC)  and  a  na- 
tionwide effort  to  raise  literacy  levels.  The  government  organized 
the  campaign  in  rounds,  which  began  in  urban  centers  and  spread 
outward  to  the  remote  parts  of  the  country  up  to  Round  1 2 .  Offi- 
cials originally  conducted  the  literacy  training  in  five  languages: 
Amharic,  Oromo,  Tigrinya,  Welamo,  and  Somali.  The  number 
of  languages  was  later  expanded  to  fifteen,  which  represented  about 
93  percent  of  the  population.  By  the  end  of  Round  12,  in  the  late 
1980s,  about  17  million  people  had  been  registered,  of  whom  12 
million  had  passed  the  literacy  test.  Women  represented  about  half 
of  those  enrolled. 


134 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


According  to  government  sources,  about  1.5  million  people  even- 
tually worked  in  the  campaign.  They  included  students,  civil  ser- 
vants, teachers,  military  personnel,  housewives,  and  members  of 
religious  groups,  all  of  whom,  it  was  claimed,  offered  their  services 
freely.  Adult  literacy  classes  used  primary  and  secondary  school 
facilities  in  many  areas.  Officials  distributed  more  than  22  million 
reading  booklets  for  beginners  and  more  than  9  million  texts  for 
postliteracy  participants.  The  Ministry  of  Education  also  stocked 
reading  centers  with  appropriate  texts.  These  books  focused  on 
topics  such  as  agriculture,  health,  and  basic  technology.  To  con- 
solidate the  gains  from  the  literacy  campaign,  the  government 
offered  follow-up  courses  for  participants  up  to  grade  four,  after 
which  they  could  enroll  in  the  regular  school  system.  In  addition, 
national  newspapers  included  regular  columns  for  new  readers. 
The  literacy  campaign  received  international  acclaim  when  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organiza- 
tion (UNESCO)  awarded  Ethiopia  the  International  Reading  As- 
sociation Literacy  Prize  in  1980. 

Foreign  Educational  Assistance 

The  regime's  efforts  to  resolve  the  country's  educational  problems 
received  considerable  support  from  abroad.  The  initial  cost  of  re- 
orienting the  education  system  toward  national  development  goals 
through  improving  opportunities  in  remote  rural  areas  had  been 
estimated  at  US$34.7  million.  Of  this  amount,  US$23  million  was 
received  from  the  International  Development  Association  (IDA). 
By  late  1978,  the  European  Community  had  contributed  US$2.6 
million  to  help  with  the  government's  education  development  plan. 
The  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany)  sent  teachers, 
training  specialists,  and  curriculum  development  experts.  The 
Soviet  Union  provided  hundreds  of  scholarships.  In  1978  there  were 
1 ,200  Ethiopian  children  (aged  nine  to  fifteen  years)  from  poor  fam- 
ilies who  attended  two  special  schools  in  Cuba  for  an  undeter- 
mined period.  Other  students  followed  this  initial  group.  In  1990 
the  Swedish  International  Development  Authority  granted  US$10.5 
million  for  elementary  education.  This  aid  helped  make  possible 
the  construction  of  about  300  schools.  The  Swedish  agency  already 
had  contributed  to  the  construction  of  7,000  elementary  schools. 

Health  and  Welfare 

The  main  cause  of  many  of  Ethiopia's  health  problems  is  the 
relative  isolation  of  large  segments  of  the  population  from  the 
modern  sector.  Additionally,  widespread  illiteracy  prevents  the 


135 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

dissemination  of  information  on  modern  health  practices.  A  shortage 
of  trained  personnel  and  insufficient  funding  also  hampers  the 
equitable  distribution  of  health  services.  Moreover,  most  health 
institutions  were  concentrated  in  urban  centers  prior  to  1974  and 
were  concerned  with  curative  rather  than  preventive  medicine. 

Western  medicine  came  to  Ethiopia  during  the  last  quarter  of 
the  nineteenth  century  with  the  arrival  of  missionary  doctors, 
nurses,  and  midwives.  But  there  was  little  progress  on  measures 
to  cope  with  the  acute  and  endemic  diseases  that  debilitated  large 
segments  of  the  population  until  the  government  established  its 
Ministry  of  Public  Health  in  1948.  The  World  Health  Organiza- 
tion (WHO),  the  United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (UNICEF),  and 
the  United  States  Agency  for  International  Development  (AID) 
provided  technical  and  financial  assistance  to  eliminate  the  sources 
of  health  problems. 

In  addition  to  establishing  hospitals,  health  centers,  and  out- 
patient clinics,  the  government  initiated  programs  to  train  Ethio- 
pian health  care  personnel  so  that  they  could  supplement  the  private 
institutions  that  existed  in  a  few  major  urban  centers.  The  few 
government  campaigns  that  exhorted  the  people  to  cooperate  in 
the  fight  against  disease  and  unhealthful  living  conditions  were 
mainly  directed  at  the  urban  population. 

By  the  mid-1970s,  the  number  of  modern  medical  facilities  had 
increased  relatively  slowly — particularly  in  rural  areas,  where  at 
least  80  percent  of  the  people  still  did  not  have  access  to  techniques 
or  services  that  would  improve  health  conditions  (see  table  8;  table 
9,  Appendix).  Forty- six  percent  of  the  hospital  beds  were  concen- 
trated in  Addis  Ababa,  Asmera,  Dire  Dawa,  and  Harer.  In  the 
absence  of  modern  medical  services,  the  rural  population  continued 
to  rely  on  traditional  folk  medicine.  According  to  official  statistics, 
in  1983/84  there  were  546  physicians  in  the  country  to  serve  a  popu- 
lation of  42  million,  a  ratio  of  roughly  one  physician  per  77,000 
people,  one  of  the  worst  ratios  in  the  world.  Less  than  40  percent 
of  the  population  was  within  reach  of  modern  health  services. 

As  in  most  developing  countries  in  the  early  1990s,  Ethiopia's 
main  health  problems  were  communicable  diseases  caused  by  poor 
sanitation  and  malnutrition  and  exacerbated  by  the  shortage  of 
trained  manpower  and  health  facilities.  Mortality  and  morbidity 
data  were  based  primarily  on  health  facility  records,  which  may 
not  reflect  the  real  incidence  of  disease  in  the  population.  Accord- 
ing to  such  records,  the  leading  causes  of  hospital  deaths  were  dysen- 
tery and  gastroenteritis  (11  percent),  tuberculosis  (11  percent), 
pneumonia  (11  percent),  malnutrition  and  anemia  (7  percent),  liver 
diseases  including  hepatitis  (6  percent),  tetanus  (3  percent),  and 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


malaria  (3  percent).  The  leading  causes  of  outpatient  morbidity 
in  children  under  age  five  were  upper  respiratory  illnesses,  diar- 
rhea, eye  infections  including  trachoma,  skin  infections,  malnutri- 
tion, and  fevers.  Nearly  60  percent  of  childhood  morbidity  was 
preventable.  The  leading  causes  of  adult  morbidity  were  dysen- 
tery and  gastrointestinal  infections,  malaria,  parasitic  worms,  skin 
and  eye  diseases,  venereal  diseases,  rheumatism,  malnutrition, 
fevers,  upper  respiratory  tract  infections,  and  tuberculosis.  These 
diseases  were  endemic  and  quite  widespread,  reflecting  the  fact  that 
Ethiopians  had  no  access  to  modern  health  care. 

Tuberculosis  still  affected  much  of  the  population  despite  efforts 
to  immunize  as  many  people  as  possible.  Venereal  diseases,  par- 
ticularly syphilis  and  gonorrhea,  were  prevalent  in  towns  and  ci- 
ties, where  prostitution  contributed  to  the  problem.  The  high 
prevalence  of  worms  and  other  intestinal  parasites  indicated  poor 
sanitary  facilities  and  education  and  the  fact  that  potable  water  was 
available  to  less  than  14  percent  of  the  population.  Tapeworm  in- 
fection was  common  because  of  the  popular  practice  of  eating  raw 
or  partially  cooked  meat. 

Schistosomiasis,  leprosy,  and  yellow  fever  were  serious  health 
hazards  in  certain  regions  of  the  country.  Schistosomiasis,  a  dis- 
ease caused  by  a  parasite  transmitted  from  snails  to  humans  through 
the  medium  of  water,  occurred  mainly  in  the  northern  part  of  the 
highlands,  in  the  western  lowlands,  and  in  Eritrea  and  Harerge. 
Leprosy  was  common  in  Harerge  and  Gojam  and  in  areas  bor- 
dering Sudan  and  Kenya.  The  incidence  of  typhoid,  whooping 
cough,  rabies,  cholera,  and  other  diseases  had  diminished  in  the 
1970s  because  of  school  immunization  programs,  but  serious  out- 
breaks still  plagued  many  rural  areas.  Frequent  famine  made  health 
conditions  even  worse. 

Smallpox  has  been  stamped  out  in  Ethiopia,  the  last  outbreak 
having  occurred  among  the  nomadic  population  in  the  late  1970s. 
Malaria,  which  is  endemic  in  70  percent  of  the  country,  was  once 
a  scourge  in  areas  below  1,500  meters  elevation.  Its  threat  had 
declined  considerably  as  a  result  of  government  efforts  supported 
by  WHO  and  AID,  but  occasional  seasonal  outbreaks  were  com- 
mon. The  most  recent  occurrence  was  in  1989,  and  the  outbreak 
was  largely  the  result  of  heavy  rain,  unusually  high  temperatures, 
and  the  setding  of  peasants  in  new  locations.  There  was  also  a  report 
of  a  meningitis  epidemic  in  southern  and  western  Ethiopia  in  1989, 
even  though  the  government  had  taken  preventive  measures  by 
vaccinating  1.6  million  people.  The  logistics  involved  in  reaching 
the  70  percent  of  Ethiopians  who  lived  more  than  three  days'  walk 


137 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


from  a  health  center  with  refrigerated  vaccines  and  penicillin 
prevented  the  medical  authorities  from  arresting  the  epidemic. 

Acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS)  was  a  growing 
problem  in  Ethiopia.  In  1985  the  Ministry  of  Health  reported  the 
country's  first  AIDS  case.  In  subsequent  years,  the  government 
sponsored  numerous  AIDS  studies  and  surveys.  For  example,  in 
1988  the  country's  AIDS  Control  and  Prevention  Office  conducted 
a  study  in  twenty-four  towns  and  discovered  that  an  average  of 
1 7  percent  of  the  people  in  each  town  tested  positive  for  the  human 
immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV),  the  precursor  of  full-blown  AIDS. 
A  similar  survey  in  Addis  Ababa  showed  that  24  percent  tested 
positive. 

In  1990  Mengistu  Mihret,  head  of  the  Surveillance  and  Research 
Coordination  Department  of  the  AIDS  Control  and  Prevention 
Office,  indicated  that  AIDS  was  spreading  more  rapidly  in  heav- 
ily traveled  areas.  According  to  the  Ministry  of  Health,  there  were 
two  AIDS  patients  in  the  country  in  1986,  seventeen  in  1987,  eighty- 
five  in  1988,  188  in  1989,  and  355  as  of  mid-1990.  Despite  this 
dramatic  growth  rate,  the  number  of  reported  AIDS  cases  in  Ethio- 
pia was  lower  than  in  many  other  African  countries.  However,  the 
difference  likely  reflected  the  comparatively  small  amount  of 
resources  being  devoted  to  the  study  of  AIDS. 

Starting  in  1975,  the  regime  embarked  on  the  formulation  of 
a  new  health  policy  emphasizing  disease  prevention  and  control, 
rural  health  services,  and  promotion  of  community  involvement 
and  self-reliance  in  health  activities.  The  ground  for  the  new  pol- 
icy was  broken  during  the  student  zemecha  of  1975/76,  which  in- 
troduced peasants  to  the  need  for  improved  health  standards.  In 
1983  the  government  drew  up  a  ten-year  health  perspective  plan 
that  was  incorporated  into  the  ten-year  economic  development  plan 
launched  in  September  1984.  The  goal  of  this  plan  was  the  provi- 
sion of  health  services  to  80  percent  of  the  population  by  1993/94. 
To  achieve  such  a  goal  would  have  required  an  increase  of  over 
10  percent  in  annual  budget  allocations,  which  was  unrealistic  in 
view  of  fiscal  constraints. 

The  regime  decentralized  health  care  administration  to  the  local 
level  in  keeping  with  its  objective  of  community  involvement  in 
health  matters.  Regional  Ministry  of  Health  offices  gave  assistance 
in  technical  matters,  but  peasant  associations  and  kebeles  had  con- 
siderable autonomy  in  educating  people  on  health  matters  and  in 
constructing  health  facilities  in  outlying  areas.  Starting  in  1981, 
a  hierarchy  of  community  health  services,  health  stations,  health 
centers,  rural  hospitals,  regional  hospitals,  and  central  referral  hos- 
pitals were  supposed  to  provide  health  care.  By  the  late  1980s, 


138 


Nurses  comfort  a  patient  at  a  hospital  in  Addis  Ababa. 

Courtesy  World  Vision  (Bruce  Brander) 

however,  these  facilities  were  available  to  only  a  small  fraction  of 
the  country's  population. 

At  the  bottom  of  the  health-care  pyramid  was  the  community 
health  service,  designed  to  give  every  1 ,000  people  access  to  a  com- 
munity health  agent,  someone  with  three  months  of  training  in  en- 
vironmental sanitation  and  the  treatment  of  simple  diseases.  In 
addition  to  the  community  health  agent,  there  was  a  traditional 
birth  attendant,  with  one  month  of  training  in  prenatal  and  post- 
natal care  and  safe  delivery  practices.  As  of  1988,  only  about  a 
quarter  of  the  population  was  being  served  by  a  community  health 
agent  or  a  traditional  birth  attendant.  Both  categories  were  made 
up  of  volunteers  chosen  by  the  community  and  were  supported  by 
health  assistants. 

Health  assistants  were  full-time  Ministry  of  Health  workers  with 
eighteen  months  of  training,  based  at  health  stations  ultimately  to 
be  provided  at  the  rate  of  one  health  station  per  10,000  popula- 
tion. Each  health  station  was  ultimately  to  be  staffed  by  three  health 
assistants.  Ten  health  stations  were  supervised  by  one  health  center, 
which  was  designed  to  provide  services  for  a  100,000-person  seg- 
ment of  the  population.  The  Regional  Health  Department  super- 
vised health  centers.  Rural  hospitals  with  an  average  of  seventy-five 
beds  and  general  regional  hospitals  with  100  to  250  beds  provided 


139 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

referral  services  for  health  centers.  The  six  central  referral  hospi- 
tals were  organized  to  provide  care  in  all  important  specialties,  train 
health  professionals,  and  conduct  research.  There  were  a  few 
specialized  hospitals  for  leprosy  and  tuberculosis,  but  overall  the 
lack  of  funds  meant  emphasis  on  building  health  centers  and  health 
stations  rather  than  hospitals. 

Trained  medical  personnel  were  also  in  short  supply.  As  noted 
previously,  the  ratio  of  citizens  to  physicians  was  one  of  the  worst 
in  the  world.  Of  4,000  positions  for  nurses,  only  half  were  filled, 
and  half  of  all  health  stations  were  staffed  by  only  one  health  assis- 
tant instead  of  the  planned  three.  There  were  two  medical  schools — 
in  Addis  Ababa  and  Gonder — and  one  school  of  pharmacy,  all 
managed  by  Addis  Ababa  University.  The  Gonder  medical  school 
also  trained  nurses  and  sanitation  and  laboratory  technicians.  The 
Ministry  of  Health  ran  three  nursing  schools  and  eleven  schools 
for  health  assistants.  Missionaries  also  ran  two  such  schools.  The 
regime  increased  the  number  of  nurses  to  385  and  health  assistants 
to  650  annually,  but  the  health  budget  could  not  support  this  many 
new  graduates.  The  quality  of  graduates  had  also  not  kept  pace 
with  the  quantity  of  graduates. 

Since  1974  there  have  been  modest  improvements  in  national 
expenditures  on  public  health.  Between  1970  and  1975,  the  govern- 
ment spent  about  5  percent  of  its  total  budget  on  health  programs. 
From  1975  to  1978,  annual  expenditures  varied  between  5.5  and 
6.6  percent  of  outlays,  and  for  the  1982-88  period  total  expendi- 
tures on  the  Ministry  of  Health  were  about  4  percent  of  total  govern- 
ment expenditures.  This  was  a  low  figure  but  comparable  to  that 
for  other  low-income  African  countries.  Moreover,  much  of  the 
real  increases  of  7  to  8  percent  in  the  health  budget  went  to  salaries. 

A  number  of  countries  were  generous  in  helping  Ethiopia  meet 
its  health  care  needs.  Cuba,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  a  number  of 
East  European  countries  provided  medical  assistance.  In  early  1980, 
nearly  300  Cuban  medical  technicians,  including  more  than  100 
physicians,  supported  local  efforts  to  resolve  public  health  problems. 
Western  aid  for  long-term  development  of  Ethiopia's  health  sec- 
tor was  modest,  averaging  about  US$10  million  annually,  the  lowest 
per  capita  assistance  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  The  main  Western 
donors  included  Italy  and  Sweden.  International  organizations, 
namely  UNICEF,  WHO,  and  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund,  also  extended  assistance. 

*     *  * 

Much  of  the  literature  on  Ethiopian  society  is  based  on  research 
concluded  before  the  1974  revolution.  However,  an  increasing 


140 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


number  of  post- 1974  works  contain  useful  information  on  both  the 
imperial  and  the  revolutionary  periods. 

An  excellent  linguistic  study  is  Language  in  Ethiopia,  edited  by 
M.  Lionel  Bender  et  al.  John  Markakis's  Ethiopia:  Anatomy  of  a  Tradi- 
tional Polity  provides  a  useful  assessment  of  Ethiopia's  prerevolu- 
tionary  social  order  with  particular  reference  to  the  political 
ramifications  of  social  stratification,  interethnic  relations,  and  land 
control.  Donald  N.  Levine's  Greater  Ethiopia:  The  Evolution  oj a  Multi- 
Ethnic  Society  analyzes  the  main  structural  features  of  the  tradition- 
al Amhara,  Tigrayan,  and  Oromo  sociocultural  systems.  Allan 
Hoben's  Land  Tenure  among  the  Amhara  of  Ethiopia  and  Ambaye 
Zekarias's  Land  Tenure  in  Eritrea  (Ethiopia)  examine  the  land  tenure 
system  in  the  Amhara  highlands  and  in  Eritrea,  respectively. 
Taddesse  Tamrat's  Church  and  State  in  Ethiopia,  1270-1527  and  John 
Spencer  Trimingham's  Islam  in  Ethiopia  are  useful  for  an  under- 
standing of  the  role  of  religion  in  Ethiopia. 

Richard  K.  Pankhurst's  An  Introduction  to  the  Medical  History  of 
Ethiopia  provides  useful  insight  into  the  evolution  of  health  prac- 
tices in  Ethiopia.  Implementing  Educational  Policies  in  Ethiopia  by  Fassil 
R.  Kiros  examines  the  revolutionary  government's  attempts  to  re- 
form Ethiopia's  education  system.  Desta  Asayehegn's  Socio- Economic 
and  Educational  Reforms  in  Ethiopia,  1942-1974  analyzes  the  educa- 
tional changes  made  during  Haile  Selassie's  last  thirty- two  years 
on  the  throne.  (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


141 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Coffee  plant  foliage  and  roasted  coffee  beans 


Restructuring  the  economy  along  socialist  lines  and 

achieving  sustained  economic  growth  were  the  two  major  economic 
objectives  of  the  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council  when 
it  assumed  power  in  1974.  After  the  1974  revolution,  the  pace  of 
economic  restructuring  was  accelerated  by  a  barrage  of  legislation. 
A  key  part  of  the  effort  to  reshape  the  economy  was  the  implemen- 
tation of  Africa's  most  ambitious  land  reform  program,  which  in- 
cluded nationalization  of  both  rural  and  urban  land.  Most  of 
Ethiopia's  industries,  large-scale  agricultural  farms,  and  financial 
institutions  were  brought  under  the  control  of  the  government,  and 
both  rural  and  urban  communities  were  organized  into  a  hierar- 
chy of  associations.  Pursuit  of  the  military  regime's  second  objec- 
tive— sustained  economic  growth — was  less  successful.  Drought, 
regional  conflicts,  inflexible  government  policy,  and  lack  of  confi- 
dence by  the  private  sector  seriously  affected  the  economy.  Fall- 
ing productivity,  soaring  inflation,  growing  dependence  on  foreign 
aid  and  loans,  high  unemployment,  and  a  deteriorating  balance 
of  payments  all  combined  to  create  a  deepening  economic  crisis. 
In  1990  Ethiopia  had  a  gross  national  product  of  US$6  billion  and 
a  per  capita  income  of  about  US$120,  one  of  the  lowest  per  capita 
incomes  of  any  country  in  the  world. 

Following  the  1974  revolution,  the  socialist  government  devel- 
oped a  series  of  annual  plans  and  a  ten-year  perspective  plan  to 
revitalize  the  war-ravaged  economy.  Although  the  annual  plans 
helped  the  regime  deal  with  some  urgent  economic  problems,  such 
as  shortages  of  food  and  consumer  goods,  decline  in  productivity, 
lack  of  foreign  exchange,  and  rising  unemployment,  these  plans 
failed  to  move  the  country  significantly  closer  to  attaining  its  long- 
term  development  objectives.  In  1984/85  (Ethiopian  calendar 
year — see  Glossary)  the  military  government  launched  a  new  ten- 
year  perspective  plan,  which  represented  a  renewed  commitment 
to  economic  growth  and  structural  transformation  of  the  economy. 
However,  the  economy  continued  to  deteriorate.  In  response,  the 
regime  introduced  several  additional  reforms.  For  instance,  the  1988 
Investment  Code  allowed  unlimited  participation  of  the  private  sec- 
tor in  certain  areas  of  the  economy.  In  January  1988,  under  pres- 
sure from  aid  donor  countries,  the  government  agreed  to  restructure 
agricultural  and  farm  price  policies.  Finally,  in  March  1990  Presi- 
dent Mengistu  Haile  Mariam  announced  the  end  of  the  country's 


145 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Marxist  economic  system  and  the  beginning  of  a  mixed  economy. 
Despite  these  reforms,  the  economy  failed  to  improve. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

Developments  up  to  1974 

By  African  standards,  Ethiopia  is  a  potentially  wealthy  coun- 
try, with  fertile  soil  and  good  rainfall  over  large  regions.  Farmers 
produce  a  variety  of  grains,  including  wheat,  corn,  and  millet. 
Coffee  also  grows  well  on  southern  slopes.  Herders  can  raise  cat- 
tle, sheep,  and  goats  in  nearly  all  parts  of  the  country.  Additionally, 
Ethiopia  possesses  several  valuable  minerals,  including  gold  and 
platinum. 

Unlike  most  sub-Saharan  African  countries,  Ethiopia's  resources 
have  enabled  the  country  to  maintain  contacts  with  the  outside  world 
for  centuries.  Since  ancient  times,  Ethiopian  traders  exchanged 
gold,  ivory,  musk,  and  wild  animal  skins  for  salt  and  luxury  goods, 
such  as  silk  and  velvet.  By  the  late  nineteenth  century,  coffee  had 
become  one  of  Ethiopia's  more  important  cash  crops.  At  that  time, 
most  trade  flowed  along  two  major  trade  routes,  both  of  which  ter- 
minated in  the  far  southwest  in  the  Kefa-Jima  region.  From  there, 
one  route  went  north  to  Mitsiwa  via  Gonder  and  Adwa,  the  other 
along  the  Awash  River  valley  to  Harer  and  then  on  to  Berbera  or 
Zeila  on  the  Red  Sea. 

Despite  its  many  riches,  Ethiopia  never  became  a  great  trading 
nation.  Most  Ethiopians  despised  traders,  preferring  instead  to  emu- 
late the  country's  warriors  and  priests.  After  establishing  a  foothold 
in  the  country,  Greek,  Armenian,  and  Arab  traders  became  the 
economic  intermediaries  between  Ethiopia  and  the  outside  world. 
Arabs  also  settled  in  the  interior  and  eventually  dominated  all  com- 
mercial activity  except  petty  trade. 

When  their  occupation  of  Ethiopia  ended  in  1941,  the  Italians 
left  behind  them  a  country  whose  economic  structure  was  much 
as  it  had  been  for  centuries.  There  had  been  some  improvements 
in  communications,  particularly  in  the  area  of  road  building,  and 
attempts  had  been  made  to  establish  a  few  small  industries  and  to 
introduce  commercial  farming,  particularly  in  Eritrea,  which  Italy 
had  occupied  since  1890.  But  these  changes  were  limited.  With  only 
a  small  proportion  of  the  population  participating  in  the  money  econ- 
omy, trade  consisted  mostly  of  barter.  Wage  labor  was  limited,  eco- 
nomic units  were  largely  self-sufficient,  foreign  trade  was  negligible, 
and  the  market  for  manufactured  goods  was  extremely  small. 

During  the  late  1940s  and  1950s,  much  of  the  economy  remained 
unchanged.  The  government  focused  its  development  efforts  on 


146 


The  Economy 


expansion  of  the  bureaucratic  structure  and  ancillary  services.  Most 
farmers  cultivated  small  plots  of  land  or  herded  cattle.  Traditional 
and  primitive  farming  methods  provided  the  population  with  a  sub- 
sistence standard  of  living.  In  addition,  many  nomadic  peoples 
raised  livestock  and  followed  a  life  of  seasonal  movement  in  drier 
areas.  The  agricultural  sector  grew  slightly,  and  the  industrial  sector 
represented  a  small  part  of  the  total  economy. 

By  the  early  1950s,  Emperor  Haile  Selassie  I  (reigned  1930-74) 
had  renewed  calls  for  a  transition  from  a  subsistence  economy  to 
an  agro-industrial  economy.  To  accomplish  this  task,  Ethiopia 
needed  an  infrastructure  to  exploit  resources,  a  material  base  to 
improve  living  conditions,  and  better  health,  education,  commu- 
nications, and  other  services.  A  key  element  of  the  emperor's  new 
economic  policy  was  the  adoption  of  centrally  administered  develop- 
ment plans.  Between  1945  and  1957,  several  technical  missions, 
including  one  each  from  the  United  States,  the  Food  and  Agricul- 
ture Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO),  and  Yugoslavia, 
prepared  a  series  of  development  plans.  However,  these  plans  failed 
to  achieve  any  meaningful  results,  largely  because  basic  statistical 
data  were  scarce  and  the  government's  administrative  and  techni- 
cal capabilities  were  minimal. 

In  1954/55  the  government  created  the  National  Economic  Coun- 
cil to  coordinate  the  state's  development  plans.  This  agency,  which 
was  a  policy-making  body  chaired  by  the  emperor,  devoted  its  at- 
tention to  improving  agricultural  and  industrial  productivity, 
eradicating  illiteracy  and  diseases,  and  improving  living  standards 
for  all  Ethiopians.  The  National  Economic  Council  helped  to  pre- 
pare Ethiopia's  first  and  second  five-year  plans. 

The  First  Five- Year  Plan  (1957-61)  sought  to  develop  a  strong 
infrastructure,  particularly  in  transportation,  construction,  and 
communications,  to  link  isolated  regions.  Another  goal  was  the  es- 
tablishment of  an  indigenous  cadre  of  skilled  and  semiskilled  per- 
sonnel to  work  in  processing  industries  to  help  reduce  Ethiopia's 
dependence  on  imports.  Lastiy,  the  plan  aimed  to  accelerate  agricul- 
tural development  by  promoting  commercial  agricultural  ventures. 
The  Second  Five-Year  Plan  (1962-67)  signaled  the  start  of  a  twenty- 
year  program  to  change  Ethiopia's  predominandy  agricultural  econ- 
omy to  an  agro-industrial  one.  The  plan's  objectives  included  diver- 
sification of  production,  introduction  of  modern  processing  methods, 
and  expansion  of  the  economy's  productive  capacity  to  increase  the 
country's  growth  rate.  The  Third  Five-Year  Plan  (1968-73)  also 
sought  to  facilitate  Ethiopia's  economic  well-being  by  raising  manu- 
facturing and  agro-industrial  performance.  However,  unlike  its 


147 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

predecessors,  the  third  plan  expressed  the  government's  willing- 
ness to  expand  educational  opportunities  and  to  improve  peasant 
agriculture.  Total  investment  for  the  First  Five- Year  Plan  reached 
839.6  million  birr  (for  value  of  the  birr — see  Glossary),  about  25 
percent  above  the  planned  674  million  birr  figure;  total  expendi- 
ture for  the  Second  Five-Year  Plan  was  13  percent  higher  than  the 
planned  1 ,694  million  birr  figure.  The  allocation  for  the  Third  Five- 
Year  Plan  was  3,115  million  birr. 

Several  factors  hindered  Ethiopia's  development  planning.  Apart 
from  the  fact  that  the  government  lacked  the  administrative  and 
technical  capabilities  to  implement  a  national  development  plan, 
staffing  problems  plagued  the  Planning  Commission  (which  pre- 
pared the  first  and  second  plans)  and  the  Ministry  of  Planning 
(which  prepared  the  third).  Many  project  managers  failed  to  achieve 
plan  objectives  because  they  neglected  to  identify  the  resources  (per- 
sonnel, equipment,  and  funds)  and  to  establish  the  organizational 
structures  necessary  to  facilitate  large-scale  economic  development. 

During  the  First  Five-Year  Plan,  the  gross  national  product 
(GNP — see  Glossary)  increased  at  a  3.2  percent  annual  rate  as  op- 
posed to  the  projected  figure  of  3.7  percent,  and  growth  in  eco- 
nomic sectors  such  as  agriculture,  manufacturing,  and  mining  failed 
to  meet  the  national  plan's  targets.  Exports  increased  at  a  3.5  per- 
cent annual  rate  during  the  first  plan,  whereas  imports  grew  at  a 
rate  of  6.4  percent  per  annum,  thus  failing  to  correct  the  negative 
balance  of  trade  that  had  existed  since  1951. 

The  Second  Five-Year  Plan  and  Third  Five-Year  Plan  anticipated 
that  the  economy  would  grow  at  an  annual  rate  of  4.3  percent  and 
6.0  percent,  respectively.  Officials  also  expected  agriculture,  manu- 
facturing, and  transportation  and  communications  to  grow  at 
respective  rates  of  2.5,  27.3,  and  6.7  percent  annually  during  the 
Second  Five-Year  Plan  and  at  respective  rates  of  2.9,  14.9,  and 
10.9  percent  during  the  Third  Five-Year  Plan.  The  Planning  Com- 
mission never  assessed  the  performance  of  these  two  plans,  largely 
because  of  a  shortage  of  qualified  personnel. 

However,  according  to  data  from  the  Ethiopian  government's 
Central  Statistical  Authority,  during  the  1960/61  to  1973/74  pe- 
riod the  economy  achieved  sustained  economic  growth.  Between 
1960  and  1970,  for  example,  Ethiopia  enjoyed  an  annual  4.4  per- 
cent average  growth  rate  in  per  capita  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary).  The  manufacturing  sector's  growth  rate 
more  than  doubled  (from  1.9  percent  in  1960/61  to  4.4  percent 
in  1973/74),  and  the  growth  rate  for  the  wholesale,  retail  trade, 
transportation,  and  communications  sectors  increased  from  9.3  per- 
cent to  15.6  percent. 


148 


The  Economy 


Relative  to  its  neighbors,  Ethiopia's  economic  performance  was 
mixed.  Ethiopia's  4.4  percent  average  per  capita  GDP  growth  rate 
was  higher  than  Sudan's  1.3  percent  rate  or  Somalia's  1  percent 
rate.  However,  Kenya's  GDP  grew  at  an  estimated  6  percent  an- 
nual rate,  and  Uganda  achieved  a  5.6  percent  growth  rate  during 
the  same  1960/61  to  1972/73  period. 

By  the  early  1970s,  Ethiopia's  economy  not  only  had  started  to 
grow  but  also  had  begun  to  diversify  into  areas  such  as  manufac- 
turing and  services.  However,  these  changes  failed  to  improve  the 
lives  of  most  Ethiopians.  About  four-fifths  of  the  population  were 
subsistence  farmers  who  lived  in  poverty  because  they  used  most 
of  their  meager  production  to  pay  taxes,  rents,  debt  payments,  and 
bribes.  On  a  broader  level,  from  1953  to  1974  the  balance  of  trade 
registered  annual  deficits.  The  only  exception  was  1973,  when  a 
combination  of  unusually  large  receipts  from  the  export  of  oilseeds 
and  pulses  and  an  unusually  small  rise  in  import  values  resulted 
in  a  favorable  balance  of  payments  of  454  million  birr.  With  the 
country  registering  trade  deficits,  the  government  attempted  to  re- 
strict imports  and  to  substitute  locally  produced  industrial  goods 
to  improve  the  trade  balance.  Despite  these  efforts,  however,  the 
unfavorable  trade  balance  continued.  As  a  result,  foreign  grants 
and  loans  financed  much  of  the  balance  of  payments  deficit. 

Postrevolution  Period 

The  1974  revolution  resulted  in  the  nationalization  and  restruc- 
turing of  the  Ethiopian  economy.  After  the  revolution,  the  coun- 
try's economy  can  be  viewed  as  having  gone  through  four  phases 
(see  table  10,  Appendix). 

Internal  political  upheaval,  armed  conflict,  and  radical  institu- 
tional reform  marked  the  1974-78  period  of  the  revolution.  There 
was  little  economic  growth;  instead,  the  government's  nationali- 
zation measures  and  the  highly  unstable  political  climate  caused 
economic  dislocation  in  sectors  such  as  agriculture  and  manufac- 
turing. Additionally,  the  military  budget  consumed  a  substantial 
portion  of  the  nation's  resources.  As  a  result  of  these  problems, 
GDP  increased  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  only  0.4  percent. 
Moreover,  the  current  account  deficit  and  the  overall  fiscal  deficit 
widened,  and  the  retail  price  index  jumped,  experiencing  a  16.5 
percent  average  annual  increase. 

In  the  second  phase  (1978-80),  the  economy  began  to  recover 
as  the  government  consolidated  power  and  implemented  institu- 
tional reforms.  The  government's  new  Development  Through 
Cooperation  Campaign  (commonly  referred  to  as  zemecha — see  Glos- 
sary) also  contributed  to  the  economy's  improvement.  More 


149 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

important,  security  conditions  improved  as  internal  and  external 
threats  subsided.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War  and 
the  decline  in  rebel  activity  in  Eritrea,  Addis  Ababa  set  produc- 
tion targets  and  mobilized  the  resources  needed  to  improve  eco- 
nomic conditions.  Consequently,  GDP  grew  at  an  average  annual 
rate  of  5.7  percent.  Benefiting  from  good  weather,  agricultural 
production  increased  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  3.6  percent,  and 
manufacturing  increased  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  18.9  per- 
cent, as  many  closed  plants,  particularly  in  Eritrea,  reopened.  The 
current  account  deficit  and  the  overall  fiscal  deficit  remained  below 
5  percent  of  GDP  during  this  period. 

In  the  third  phase  (1980-85),  the  economy  experienced  a  set- 
back. Except  for  Ethiopian  fiscal  year  (EFY — see  Glossary)  1982/83, 
the  growth  of  GDP  declined.  Manufacturing  took  a  downturn  as 
well,  and  agriculture  reached  a  crisis  stage.  Four  factors  accounted 
for  these  developments.  First,  the  1984-85  drought  affected  almost 
all  regions  of  the  country.  As  a  result,  the  government  committed 
scarce  resources  to  famine  relief  efforts  while  tabling  long-term  de- 
velopment projects.  Consequently,  the  external  accounts  (as  shown 
in  the  current  account  deficit  and  the  debt  service  ratio)  and  the 
overall  fiscal  deficit  worsened,  despite  international  drought  as- 
sistance totaling  more  than  US$450  million.  Notwithstanding  these 
efforts,  close  to  8  million  people  became  famine  victims  during  the 
drought  of  the  mid-1980s,  and  about  1  million  died.  Second,  the 
manufacturing  sector  stagnated  as  agricultural  inputs  declined.  Also, 
many  industries  exhausted  their  capacity  to  increase  output;  as  a 
result,  they  failed  to  meet  the  rising  demand  for  consumer  items. 
Third,  the  lack  of  foreign  exchange  and  declining  investment 
reversed  the  relatively  high  manufacturing  growth  rates  of  1978-80. 
Finally,  Ethiopia's  large  military  establishment  created  a  major  bur- 
den on  the  economy.  Defense  expenditures  during  this  time  were 
absorbing  40  to  50  percent  of  the  government's  current  expendi- 
ture (see  Defense  Costs,  ch.  5). 

In  the  fourth  period  (1985-90),  the  economy  continued  to  stag- 
nate, despite  an  improvement  in  the  weather  in  EFY  1985/86  and 
EFY  1986/87,  which  helped  reverse  the  agricultural  decline.  GDP 
and  the  manufacturing  sector  also  grew  during  this  period,  GDP 
increasing  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  5  percent.  However,  the 
lingering  effects  of  the  1984-85  drought  undercut  these  achieve- 
ments and  contributed  to  the  economy's  overall  stagnation.  Dur- 
ing the  1985-90  period,  the  current  account  deficit  and  the  overall 
fiscal  deficit  worsened  to  annual  rates  of  10.6  and  13.5  percent, 
respectively,  and  the  debt  service  ratio  continued  to  climb. 


150 


Rug-weaving  room  at  a  government-run  crafts  center  in  Addis  Ababa 
Courtesy  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 

Nations  (S.  Pierbattistin) 

Role  of  Government 

The  imperial  government  presided  over  what  was,  even  in  the 
mid- twentieth  century,  essentially  a  feudal  economy,  with  aristocrats 
and  the  church  owning  most  arable  land  and  tenant  farmers  who 
paid  exorbitant  rents  making  up  the  majority  of  the  nation's  agricul- 
turalists. Acting  primarily  through  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  the 
emperor  used  fiscal  and  monetary  strategies  to  direct  the  local  econ- 
omy. The  various  ministries,  although  not  always  effective,  played 
a  key  role  in  developing  and  implementing  programs.  The  govern- 
ment conducted  negotiations  with  the  ministries  to  allocate  resources 
for  plan  priorities. 

Officials  formulated  actual  operations,  however,  without  adhering 
to  plan  priorities.  This  problem  developed  partly  because  the  rela- 
tionship between  the  Planning  Commission,  responsible  for  for- 
mulating national  objectives  and  priorities,  and  the  Ministry  of 
Finance,  responsible  for  resource  planning  and  management,  was 
not  clearly  defined.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  often  played  a  piv- 
otal role,  whereas  the  Planning  Commission  was  relegated  to  a 
minor  role.  Often  the  Planning  Commission  was  perceived  as  mere- 
ly another  bureaucratic  layer.  The  ultimate  power  to  approve 


151 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

budgets  and  programs  rested  with  the  emperor,  although  the  Coun- 
cil of  Ministers  had  the  opportunity  to  review  plans. 

After  the  revolution,  the  government's  role  in  determining  eco- 
nomic policies  changed  dramatically.  In  January  and  February 
1975,  the  government  nationalized  or  took  partial  control  of  more 
than  100  companies,  banks  and  other  financial  institutions,  and 
insurance  companies.  In  March  1975,  the  regime  nationalized  rural 
land  and  granted  peasants  "possessing  rights"  to  parcels  of  land 
not  to  exceed  ten  hectares  per  grantee.  In  December  1975,  the 
government  issued  Proclamation  No.  76,  which  established  a 
500,000  birr  ceiling  on  private  investment  and  urged  Ethiopians 
to  invest  in  enterprises  larger  than  cottage  industries.  This  policy 
changed  in  mid- 1989,  when  the  government  implemented  three 
special  decrees  to  encourage  the  development  of  small-scale  indus- 
tries, the  participation  of  nongovernmental  bodies  in  the  hotel  in- 
dustry, and  the  establishment  of  joint  ventures. 

Under  the  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council  (PMAC; 
also  known  as  the  Derg — see  Glossary),  Ethiopia's  political  sys- 
tem and  economic  structure  changed  dramatically,  and  the  govern- 
ment embraced  a  Marxist-Leninist  political  philosophy.  Planning 
became  more  ambitious  and  more  pervasive,  penetrating  all  regions 
and  all  sectors  of  the  society,  in  contrast  to  the  imperial  period. 
Article  11  of  the  1987  constitution  legitimized  these  changes  by 
declaring  that  "the  State  shall  guide  the  economic  and  social  ac- 
tivities of  the  country  through  a  central  plan."  The  Office  of  the 
National  Council  for  Central  Planning  (ONCCP),  which  replaced 
the  Planning  Commission  and  which  was  chaired  by  Mengistu  as 
head  of  state,  served  as  the  supreme  policy-making  body  and  had 
the  power  and  responsibility  to  prepare  the  directives,  strategies, 
and  procedures  for  short-  and  long-range  plans.  The  ONCCP 
played  a  pivotal  role  in  mediating  budget  requests  between  other 
ministries  and  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  The  government  also  sought 
to  improve  Ethiopia's  economic  performance  by  expanding  the 
number  of  state-owned  enterprises  and  encouraging  barter  and 
countertrade  practices  (see  Industry  and  Energy;  Foreign  Trade, 
this  ch.). 

On  March  5,  1990,  President  Mengistu  delivered  a  speech  to 
the  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia  (WPE)  Central  Committee  in  which 
he  declared  the  failure  of  the  Marxist  economic  system  imposed 
by  the  military  regime  after  the  1974  overthrow  of  Emperor  Haile 
Selassie.  He  also  announced  the  adoption  of  a  new  strategy  for  the 
country's  future  progress  and  development.  Mengistu' s  proposals 
included  decentralization  in  planning  and  a  free-market,  mixed 


152 


The  Economy 


economy  in  which  the  private  and  public  sectors  would  play  com- 
plementary roles.  The  new  strategy  would  permit  Ethiopian  and 
foreign  private  individuals  to  invest  in  foreign  and  domestic  trade, 
industry,  construction,  mining,  and  agriculture  and  in  the  coun- 
try's development  in  general.  Although  Mengistu's  new  economic 
policy  attracted  considerable  attention,  many  economists  were  skep- 
tical about  Ethiopia's  ability  to  bring  about  a  quick  radical  trans- 
formation of  its  economic  policies.  In  any  case,  the  plan  proved 
irrelevant  in  view  of  the  deteriorating  political  and  military  situa- 
tion that  led  to  the  fall  of  the  regime  in  1991. 

The  Budgetary  Process 

During  the  imperial  period,  the  government  initiated  the  bud- 
get cycle  each  year  on  the  first  day  of  Tikimt  (October  1 1)  by  issu- 
ing a  "call  for  budget  proposals."  Supposedly,  the  various  ministries 
and  agencies  adhered  to  deadlines  in  completing  the  budgetary 
process.  These  organizations  submitted  current  and  capital  bud- 
get proposals  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance;  the  Council  of  Ministers 
reviewed  all  requests.  The  ultimate  power  for  approval  rested  with 
the  emperor. 

After  the  revolution,  the  government  developed  new  guidelines 
on  budget  preparation  and  approval.  Addis  Ababa  issued  annual 
budget  "calls"  in  July  or  August,  with  preliminary  information 
and  guidance.  The  new  guidelines  required  ministries  and  agen- 
cies to  complete  their  proposals  by  January,  when  budget  hear- 
ings would  begin.  The  hearings  included  discussions  with  ministries 
in  which  requests  would  be  aligned  with  allocations,  and  justifica- 
tions for  requests  would  be  evaluated.  After  the  ministries  submitted 
their  current  budget  proposals  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance  for  review, 
with  a  copy  to  the  ONCCP,  the  ONCCP  executive  committee 
would  approve,  disapprove,  or  change  the  requests.  Conversely, 
ministries  would  send  capital  budget  proposals  to  the  ONCCP  with 
a  copy  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  The  ONCCP  would  conclude 
a  similar  process  of  budget  hearings,  which  would  include  a  review 
of  adherence  to  guidelines,  justifications  for  requests,  and  confor- 
mity to  investment  priorities  identified  in  the  national  plan.  Thus, 
under  the  new  system,  the  Ministry  of  Finance  developed  the  cur- 
rent budget,  and  the  ONCCP  developed  the  capital  budget.  Draft 
current  and  capital  budgets  prepared  by  the  Ministry  of  Finance 
and  the  ONCCP,  respectively,  would  then  be  reconciled  with  es- 
timates of  revenues,  domestic  resources,  and  other  sources  of  fund- 
ing such  as  loans  and  aid.  The  consolidated  current  and  capital 
budgets  then  would  go  to  the  Council  of  Ministers  for  review  and 


153 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

recommendations.  The  final  approval  was  the  head  of  state's 
prerogative  (see  Banking  and  Monetary  Policy,  this  ch.). 

Revenue  and  Expenditures 

Resources  were  allocated  among  the  various  sectors  of  the  econ- 
omy differently  in  the  imperial  and  revolutionary  periods.  Under 
the  emperor,  the  government  dedicated  about  36  percent  of  the 
annual  budget  to  national  defense  and  maintenance  of  internal 
order.  Toward  the  end  of  the  imperial  period,  the  budgets  of  the 
various  ministries  increased  steadily  while  tax  yields  stagnated.  With 
a  majority  of  the  population  living  at  a  subsistence  level,  there  was 
limited  opportunity  to  increase  taxes  on  personal  or  agricultural 
income.  Consequently,  the  imperial  government  relied  on  indirect 
taxes  (customs,  excise,  and  sales)  to  generate  revenues.  For  instance, 
in  the  early  1970s  taxes  on  foreign  trade  accounted  for  close  to  two- 
fifths  of  the  tax  revenues  and  about  one-third  of  all  government 
revenues,  excluding  foreign  grants.  At  the  same  time,  direct  taxes 
accounted  for  less  than  one-third  of  tax  revenues. 

The  revolutionary  government  changed  the  tax  structure  in  1976, 
replacing  taxes  on  agricultural  income  and  rural  land  with  a  rural 
land-use  fee  and  a  new  tax  on  income  from  agricultural  activities. 
The  government  partially  alleviated  the  tax  collection  problem  that 
existed  during  the  imperial  period  by  delegating  the  responsibility 
for  collecting  the  fee  and  tax  on  agriculture  to  peasant  associations, 
which  received  a  small  percentage  of  revenues  as  payment.  Whereas 
total  revenue  increased  significantly,  to  about  24  percent  of  GDP 
in  EFY  1988/89,  tax  revenues  remained  stagnant  at  around  15  per- 
cent of  GDP.  In  EFY  1974/75,  total  revenue  and  tax  revenue  had 
been  13  and  11  percent  of  GDP,  respectively.  Despite  the  1976 
changes  in  the  tax  structure,  the  government  believed  that  the 
agricultural  income  tax  was  being  underpaid,  largely  because  of 
underassessments  by  peasant  associations. 

The  government  levied  taxes  on  exports  and  imports.  In  1987 
Addis  Ababa  taxed  all  exports  at  2  percent  and  levied  an  additional 
export  duty  and  a  surtax  on  coffee.  Import  taxes  included  customs 
duties  and  a  19  percent  general  import  transaction  tax.  Because 
of  a  policy  of  encouraging  new  capital  investment,  the  government 
exempted  capital  goods  from  all  import  taxes.  Among  imports,  in- 
termediate goods  were  taxed  on  a  scale  ranging  from  0  to  35  per- 
cent, consumer  goods  on  a  scale  of  0  to  100  percent,  and  luxuries 
at  a  flat  rate  of  200  percent.  High  taxes  on  certain  consumer  goods 
and  luxury  items  contributed  to  a  flourishing  underground  econ- 
omy in  which  the  smuggling  of  some  imports,  particularly  liquor 
and  electronic  goods,  played  an  important  part. 


154 


The  Economy 


Although  tax  collection  procedures  proved  somewhat  ineffective, 
the  government  maintained  close  control  of  current  and  capital  ex- 
penditures. The  Ministry  of  Finance  oversaw  procurements  and 
audited  ministries  to  ensure  that  expenditures  conformed  to  budget 
authorizations. 

Current  expenditures  as  a  proportion  of  GDP  grew  from  13.2 
percent  in  EFY  1974/75  to  26.1  percent  in  EFY  1987/88.  This 
growth  was  largely  the  result  of  the  increase  in  expenditures  for 
defense  and  general  services  following  the  1974  revolution.  Dur- 
ing the  1977-78  Ogaden  War,  for  example,  when  the  Somali  coun- 
teroffensive  was  under  way,  defense  took  close  to  60  percent  of  the 
budget.  That  percentage  declined  after  1979,  although  it  remained 
relatively  higher  than  the  figure  for  the  prerevolutionary  period. 
Between  1974  and  1988,  about  40  to  50  percent  of  the  budget  was 
dedicated  to  defense  and  government  services. 

Economic  and  social  services  received  less  than  30  percent  of 
government  funds  until  EFY  1972/73,  when  a  rise  in  educational 
outlays  pushed  them  to  around  40  percent.  Under  the  Mengistu 
regime,  economic  and  social  service  expenditures  remained  at 
prerevolutionary  levels:  agriculture's  share  was  2  percent,  while 
education  and  health  received  an  average  of  14  and  4  percent, 
respectively. 

Banking  and  Monetary  Policy 

The  1974  revolution  brought  major  changes  to  the  banking  sys- 
tem. Prior  to  the  emergence  of  the  Marxist  government,  Ethiopia 
had  several  state-owned  banking  institutions  and  private  financial 
institutions.  The  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia  (the  country's  central 
bank  and  financial  adviser),  the  Commercial  Bank  of  Ethiopia 
(which  handled  commercial  operations),  the  Agricultural  and  In- 
dustrial Development  Bank  (established  largely  to  finance  state- 
owned  enterprises),  the  Savings  and  Mortgage  Corporation  of 
Ethiopia,  and  the  Imperial  Savings  and  Home  Ownership  Public 
Association  (which  provided  savings  and  loan  services)  were  the 
major  state-owned  banks.  Major  private  commercial  institutions, 
many  of  which  were  foreign  owned,  included  the  Addis  Ababa 
Bank,  the  Banco  di  Napoli,  and  the  Banco  di  Roma.  In  addition, 
there  were  several  insurance  companies. 

In  January  and  February  1975,  the  government  nationalized  and 
subsequently  reorganized  private  banks  and  insurance  companies. 
By  the  early  1980s,  the  country's  banking  system  included  the 
National  Bank  of  Ethiopia;  the  Addis  Ababa  Bank,  which  was 
formed  by  merging  the  three  commercial  banks  that  existed  prior 
to  the  revolution;  the  Ethiopian  Insurance  Corporation,  which 


155 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

incorporated  all  of  the  nationalized  insurance  companies;  and  the 
new  Housing  and  Savings  Bank,  which  was  responsible  for  mak- 
ing loans  for  new  housing  and  home  improvement.  The  govern- 
ment placed  all  banks  and  financial  institutions  under  the  National 
Bank  of  Ethiopia's  control  and  supervision.  The  National  Bank 
of  Ethiopia  regulated  currency,  controlled  credit  and  monetary  pol- 
icy, and  administered  foreign-currency  transactions  and  the  offi- 
cial foreign-exchange  reserves.  A  majority  of  the  banking  services 
were  concentrated  in  major  urban  areas,  although  there  were  ef- 
forts to  establish  more  rural  bank  branches  throughout  the  coun- 
try. However,  the  lending  strategies  of  the  banks  showed  that  the 
productive  sectors  were  not  given  priority.  In  1988,  for  example, 
about  55  percent  of  all  commercial  bank  credit  financed  imports 
and  domestic  trade  and  services.  Agriculture  and  industry  received 
only  6  and  13  percent  of  the  commercial  credit,  respectively. 

To  combat  inflation  and  reduce  the  deficit,  the  government 
adopted  a  conservative  fiscal  management  policy  in  the  1980s.  The 
government  limited  the  budget  deficit  to  an  average  of  about  14 
percent  of  GDP  in  the  five  years  ending  in  EFY  1988/89  by  bor- 
rowing from  local  sources.  For  instance,  in  EFY  1987/88  domes- 
tic borrowing  financed  about  38  percent  of  the  deficit.  Addis  Ababa 
also  imposed  measures  to  cut  back  capital  expenditures  and  to  lower 
inflation.  However,  price  controls,  official  overvaluing  of  the  birr, 
and  a  freeze  on  the  wages  of  senior  government  staff  have  failed 
to  control  inflation.  By  1988  inflation  was  averaging  7.1  percent 
annually,  but  it  turned  sharply  upward  during  1990  as  war  expen- 
ditures increased  and  was  estimated  at  45  percent  by  mid- 1991. 
Moreover,  money  supply,  defined  as  currency  in  circulation  and 
demand  deposits  with  banks  (except  that  of  the  National  Bank  of 
Ethiopia),  rose  with  the  expansion  in  government  budget  deficits, 
which  reached  about  1.6  billion  birr  in  EFY  1988/89.  To  help 
resolve  this  deficit  problem  and  numerous  other  economic  difficul- 
ties, Addis  Ababa  relied  on  foreign  aid  (see  Balance  of  Payments 
and  Foreign  Assistance,  this  ch.). 

Labor  Force 

Ethiopia's  first  and  only  national  census,  conducted  in  1984,  put 
the  population  at  42  million,  which  made  Ethiopia  the  third  most 
populous  country  in  Africa,  after  Egypt  and  Nigeria.  The  census 
also  showed  that  by  1994  Ethiopia's  population  would  reach  56 
million.  According  to  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  projections,  Ethio- 
pia will  have  a  population  of  66  million  by  the  year  2000  (other 
estimates  suggested  that  the  population  would  be  more  than  67 
million). 


156 


The  Economy 


The  1984  census  indicated  that  46.6  percent  of  the  population 
consisted  of  children  under  fifteen  years  of  age,  which  indicated 
a  relatively  high  rate  of  dependence  on  the  working  population  for 
education,  health,  and  social  services.  Such  a  high  dependency  rate 
often  is  characteristic  of  a  country  in  transition  from  a  subsistence 
to  a  monetized  economy.  Because  of  limited  investment  resources 
in  the  modern  sector,  not  all  the  working-age  population  can  be 
absorbed,  with  the  result  that  unemployment  can  become  a  grow- 
ing social  and  economic  problem  for  an  economy  in  transition. 

The  1988/89  economically  active  labor  force  was  estimated  to 
be  21  million,  of  which  19.3  million  were  in  rural  areas  and  1.7 
million  in  urban  areas.  Estimates  of  the  labor  force's  annual  growth 
ranged  from  1.8  to  2.9  percent. 

The  labor  force's  occupational  distribution  showed  that  in  1990 
some  80  percent  of  the  labor  force  worked  in  agriculture,  8  per- 
cent in  industry,  and  12  percent  in  services.  These  figures  had 
changed  slightly  from  the  1965  figures  of  86,  5,  and  9  percent, 
respectively.  Thus,  while  agriculture's  proportionate  share  of  the 
labor  force  fell,  the  other  two  sectors  gained.  This  trend  reflects 
a  modernizing  society  that  is  diversifying  its  economy  by  expand- 
ing secondary  and  tertiary  sectors. 

Unemployment 

Generally,  it  is  difficult  to  measure  unemployment  in  less  devel- 
oped countries  such  as  Ethiopia  because  of  the  lack  of  reliable 
records  and  the  existence  of  various  informal  types  of  work. 
However,  based  on  Ministry  of  Labor  surveys  and  numerous  other 
analyses,  a  general  assessment  of  unemployment  in  Ethiopia  can 
be  made.  According  to  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  the  unemployment 
rate  increased  11.5  percent  annually  during  the  1979-88  period; 
by  1987/88  there  were  715,065  registered  unemployed  workers  in 
thirty-six  major  towns.  Of  those  registered,  134,117  ultimately 
found  jobs,  leaving  the  remaining  580,948  unemployed.  The  urban 
labor  force  totaled  1.7  million  in  1988/89.  The  Ministry  of  Labor 
indicated  that  the  government  employed  523,000  of  these  workers. 
The  rest  relied  on  private  employment  or  self-employment  for  their 
livelihood. 

According  to  the  government,  rural  unemployment  was  virtu- 
ally nonexistent.  A  1981/82  rural  labor  survey  revealed  that  97.5 
percent  of  the  rural  labor  force  worked,  2.4  percent  did  not  work 
because  of  social  reasons,  and  0.1  percent  had  been  unemployed 
during  the  previous  twelve  months.  However,  it  is  important  to 
note  that  unemployment,  as  conventionally  defined,  records  only 


157 


158 


women  from  a  producers 9  cooperative  weave  baskets 

to  be  sold  as  souvenirs. 
Courtesy  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  (F.  Mattiol) 


159 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

part  of  the  story;  it  leaves  out  disguised  unemployment  and  under- 
employment, which  were  prevalent  in  both  urban  and  rural  areas. 
For  instance,  the  same  rural  labor  force  survey  found  that  50  per- 
cent of  those  working  were  unpaid  family  workers.  What  is  im- 
portant about  unemployment  in  Ethiopia  is  that  with  an  expansion 
of  the  labor  force,  the  public  sector — with  an  already  swollen  pay- 
roll and  acute  budgetary  problems — was  unlikely  to  absorb  more 
than  a  tiny  fraction  of  those  entering  the  labor  market. 

Labor  Unions 

The  1955  constitution  guaranteed  the  right  to  form  workers'  as- 
sociations. However,  it  was  not  until  1962  that  the  Ethiopian 
government  issued  the  Labor  Relations  Decree,  which  authorized 
trade  unions.  In  April  1963,  the  imperial  authorities  recognized 
the  Confederation  of  Ethiopian  Labor  Unions  (CELU),  which 
represented  twenty- two  industrial  labor  groups.  By  1973  CELU 
had  167  affiliates  with  approximately  80,000  members,  which 
represented  only  about  30  percent  of  all  eligible  workers. 

CELU  never  evolved  into  a  national  federation  of  unions.  In- 
stead, it  remained  an  association  of  labor  groups  organized  at  the 
local  level.  The  absence  of  a  national  constituency,  coupled  with 
other  problems  such  as  corruption,  embezzlement,  election  fraud, 
ethnic  and  regional  discrimination,  and  inadequate  finances, 
prevented  CELU  from  challenging  the  status  quo  in  the  industrial 
sector.  Nevertheless,  CELU  sponsored  several  labor  protests  and 
strikes  during  the  first  decade  of  its  existence.  After  1972  CELU 
became  more  militant  as  drought  and  famine  caused  the  death  of 
up  to  200,000  people.  The  government  responded  by  using  force 
to  crush  labor  protests,  strikes,  and  demonstrations. 

Although  many  of  its  members  supported  the  overthrow  of  Haile 
Selassie,  CELU  was  the  first  labor  organization  to  reject  the  mili- 
tary junta  and  to  demand  the  creation  of  a  people's  government. 
On  May  19,  1975,  the  Derg  temporarily  closed  CELU  headquarters 
on  the  grounds  that  the  union  needed  to  be  reorganized.  Further- 
more, the  military  authorities  asserted  that  workers  should  elect 
their  future  leaders  according  to  the  aims  and  objectives  of  Ethio- 
pian socialism.  This  order  did  not  rescind  traditional  workers' 
rights,  such  as  the  right  to  organize  freely,  to  strike,  and  to  bar- 
gain collectively  over  wages  and  working  conditions.  Rather,  it 
sought  to  control  the  political  activities  of  the  CELU  leadership. 
As  expected,  CELU  rejected  these  actions  and  continued  to  de- 
mand democratic  changes  and  civilian  rights.  In  January  1977, 
the  Derg  replaced  CELU  (abolished  December  1975)  with  the  All- 
Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (AETU).  The  AETU  had  1,341  local 


160 


The  Economy 


chapters,  known  as  workers'  associations,  with  a  total  member- 
ship of  287,000.  The  new  union  thus  was  twice  as  large  as  CELU 
had  ever  been.  The  government  maintained  that  the  AETU's  pur- 
pose was  to  educate  workers  about  the  need  to  contribute  their  share 
to  national  development  by  increasing  productivity  and  building 
socialism. 

In  1978  the  government  replaced  the  AETU  executive  commit- 
tee after  charging  it  with  political  sabotage,  abuse  of  authority,  and 
failure  to  abide  by  the  rules  of  democratic  centralism.  In  1982  a 
further  restructuring  of  the  AETU  occurred  when  Addis  Ababa 
issued  the  Trade  Unions'  Organization  Proclamation.  An  uncom- 
promising Marxist-Leninist  document,  this  proclamation  empha- 
sized the  need  "to  enable  workers  to  discharge  their  historical 
responsibility  in  building  the  national  economy  by  handling  with 
care  the  instruments  of  production  as  their  produce,  and  by  en- 
hancing the  production  and  proper  distribution  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices." A  series  of  meetings  and  elections  culminated  in  a  national 
congress  in  June  1982,  at  which  the  government  replaced  the  leader- 
ship of  the  AETU.  In  1986  the  government  relabeled  the  AETU 
the  Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (ETU). 

In  1983/84  the  AETU  claimed  a  membership  of  313,434.  The 
organization  included  nine  industrial  groups,  the  largest  of  which 
was  manufacturing,  which  had  accounted  for  29.2  percent  of  the 
membership  in  1982/83,  followed  by  agriculture,  forestry,  and  fish- 
ing with  26.6  percent,  services  with  15.1  percent,  transportation 
with  8.1  percent,  construction  with  8.0  percent,  trade  with  6.2  per- 
cent, utilities  with  3.7  percent,  finance  with  2.4  percent,  and  min- 
ing with  0.7  percent.  A  total  of  35.6  percent  of  the  members  lived 
in  Addis  Ababa  and  another  18.0  percent  in  Shewa.  Eritrea  and 
Tigray  accounted  for  no  more  than  7 . 5  percent  of  the  total  mem- 
bership. By  the  late  1980s,  the  AETU  had  failed  to  regain  the  ac- 
tivist reputation  its  predecessors  had  won  in  the  1970s.  According 
to  one  observer,  this  political  quiescence  probably  indicated  that 
the  government  had  successfully  co-opted  the  trade  unions. 

Wages  and  Prices 

Prior  to  the  revolution,  the  Central  Personnel  Agency  formu- 
lated and  regulated  wage  policies.  At  the  time  of  the  military 
takeover,  there  was  no  minimum  wage  law;  wages  and  salaries  de- 
pended much  on  demand.  There  was,  however,  some  legislation 
that  defined  pay  scales.  For  instance,  Notice  49  of  1972  defined 
pay  scales  and  details  regarding  incremental  steps  for  civil  servants. 
Similarly,  the  Ethiopian  Workers  Commission  had  developed  pay- 
scale  guidelines  based  on  skill,  experience,  and  employment.  In 


161 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


1974  CELU  asked  for  a  3  birr  daily  minimum  wage,  which  the 
imperial  government  eventually  granted. 

After  the  revolution,  the  government's  policy  was  to  control  wage 
growth  to  reduce  pay  scales.  For  parastatal  and  public  enterprise 
workers  earning  650  birr  or  less  per  month  (real  income,  i.e.,  in- 
come adjusted  for  inflation)  and  civil  servants  earning  600  birr  or 
less  per  month,  the  government  allowed  incremental  pay  increases. 
But  for  those  above  these  cutoff  points,  there  was  a  general  salary 
freeze.  However,  promotions  sometimes  provided  a  worker  a  raise 
over  the  cutoff  levels. 

Given  inflation,  the  salary  freeze  affected  the  real  income  of  many 
workers.  For  instance,  the  starting  salary  of  a  science  graduate  in 

1975  was  600  birr  per  month.  In  1984  the  real  monthly  income 
of  a  science  graduate  had  dropped  to  239  birr.  Similarly,  the  highest 
civil  servant's  maximum  salary  in  1975  was  1 ,440  birr  per  month; 
the  real  monthly  income  of  the  same  civil  servant  in  1984  was  573 
birr. 

Data  on  real  wages  of  manufacturing  workers  and  the  behavior 
of  price  indexes  provide  further  evidence  of  worsening  living  stan- 
dards after  the  revolution.  In  1985/86  the  average  real  monthly 
income  of  an  industrial  worker  was  65.6  percent  of  the  1974/75 
level  (see  table  11,  Appendix).  The  general  trend  shows  that  real 
income  fell  as  consumer  prices  continued  to  increase.  The  retail 
price  index  for  Addis  Ababa  rose  from  375.2  in  1980/81  (1963  =  100) 
to  480.0  in  1987/88.  This  rise  in  the  retail  price  index  included 
increases  in  the  cost  of  food  (27  percent),  household  items  (38  per- 
cent), and  transportation  (17  percent)  (see  table  12,  Appendix). 

Price  increases  mainly  affected  urban  wage  earners  on  fixed  in- 
comes, as  purchases  of  necessities  used  larger  portions  of  their  pay. 
The  government's  wage  freeze  and  the  controls  it  placed  on  job 
transfers  and  changes  made  it  difficult  for  most  urban  wage  earn- 
ers to  improve  their  living  standards.  The  freeze  on  wages  and  job 
changes  also  reduced  productivity. 

Agriculture 

Accounting  for  over  40  percent  of  GDP,  80  percent  of  exports, 
and  80  percent  of  the  labor  force,  agriculture  remained  in  1991 
the  economy's  most  important  sector  (see  fig.  9).  Ethiopia  has  great 
agricultural  potential  because  of  its  vast  areas  of  fertile  land,  diverse 
climate,  generally  adequate  rainfall,  and  large  labor  pool.  Despite 
this  potential,  however,  Ethiopian  agriculture  has  remained  under- 
developed. Because  of  drought,  which  has  persistently  affected  the 
country  since  the  early  1970s,  a  poor  economic  base  (low  produc- 
tivity, weak  infrastructure,  and  low  level  of  technology),  and  the 


162 


The  Economy 


Mengistu  government's  commitment  to  Marxism-Leninism,  the 
agricultural  sector  has  performed  poorly.  For  instance,  according 
to  the  World  Bank,  between  1980  and  1987  agricultural  produc- 
tion dropped  at  an  annual  rate  of  2.1  percent,  while  the  popula- 
tion grew  at  an  annual  rate  of  2.4  percent.  Consequently,  the 
country  faced  a  tragic  famine  that  resulted  in  the  death  of  nearly 
1  million  people  from  1984  to  1986. 

During  the  imperial  period,  the  development  of  the  agricultural 
sector  was  retarded  by  a  number  of  factors,  including  tenancy  and 
land  reform  problems,  the  government's  neglect  of  the  agricultural 
sector  (agriculture  received  less  than  2  percent  of  budget  alloca- 
tions even  though  the  vast  majority  of  the  population  depended 
on  agriculture),  low  productivity,  and  lack  of  technological  develop- 
ment. Moreover,  the  emperor's  inability  to  implement  meaning- 
ful land  reform  perpetuated  a  system  in  which  aristocrats  and  the 
church  owned  most  of  the  farmland  and  in  which  most  farmers 
were  tenants  who  had  to  provide  as  much  as  50  percent  of  their 
crops  as  rent.  To  make  matters  worse,  during  the  1972-74  drought 
and  famine  the  imperial  government  refused  to  assist  rural  Ethio- 
pians and  tried  to  cover  up  the  crisis  by  refusing  international  aid. 
As  a  result,  up  to  200,000  Ethiopians  perished. 

Although  the  issue  of  land  reform  was  not  addressed  until  the 
1974  revolution,  the  government  had  tried  to  introduce  programs 
to  improve  the  condition  of  farmers.  In  1971  the  Ministry  of 
Agriculture  introduced  the  Minimum  Package  Program  (MPP)  to 
bring  about  economic  and  social  changes.  The  MPP  included  credit 
for  the  purchase  of  items  such  as  fertilizers,  improved  seeds,  and 
pesticides;  innovative  extension  services;  the  establishment  of 
cooperatives;  and  the  provision  of  infrastructure,  mainly  water  sup- 
ply and  all-weather  roads.  The  program,  designed  for  rural  de- 
velopment, was  first  introduced  in  a  project  called  the  Chilalo 
Agricultural  Development  Unit  (CADU).  The  program  later  facili- 
tated the  establishment  of  similar  internationally  supported  and 
financed  projects  at  Ada  (just  south  of  Addis  Ababa),  Welamo, 
and  Humera.  By  1974  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture's  Extension  and 
Project  Implementation  Department  (EPID)  had  more  than  twenty- 
eight  areas  with  more  than  200  extension  and  marketing  centers. 
Although  the  MPPs  improved  the  agricultural  productivity  of  farm- 
ers, particularly  in  the  project  areas,  there  were  many  problems 
associated  with  discrimination  against  small  farmers  (because  of 
a  restrictive  credit  system  that  favored  big  landowners)  and  tenant 
eviction. 

Imperial  government  policy  permitting  investors  to  import  fer- 
tilizers, pesticides,  tractors  and  combines,  and  (until  1973)  fuel  free 


163 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


GDP1  1984/85 -8,939  million  birr2 


MINING  0.2% 


For  value  of  the  birr--  see  Glossary. 


Figure  9.  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  Ethiopian 
Fiscal  Year  1984/85 

of  import  duties  encouraged  the  rapid  expansion  of  large-scale  com- 
mercial farming.  As  a  result,  agriculture  continued  to  grow,  al- 
beit below  the  population  growth  rate.  According  to  the  World 
Bank,  agricultural  production  increased  at  an  average  annual  rate 
of  2.1  percent  between  1965  and  1973,  while  population  increased 
at  an  average  annual  rate  of  2.6  percent  during  the  same  pe- 
riod. 

Agricultural  productivity  under  the  Derg  continued  to  decline. 
According  to  the  World  Bank,  agricultural  production  increased 
at  an  average  annual  rate  of  0.6  percent  between  1973  and  1980 
but  then  decreased  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  2 . 1  percent  be- 
tween 1980  and  1987.  During  the  same  period  (1973-87),  popula- 
tion increased  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  2.6  percent  (2.4  percent 
for  1980-87).  The  poor  performance  of  agriculture  was  related  to 
several  factors,  including  drought;  a  government  policy  of  control- 
ling prices  and  the  free  movement  of  agricultural  products  from 
surplus  to  deficit  areas;  the  unstable  political  climate;  the  disloca- 
tion of  the  rural  community  caused  by  resettlement,  villagization, 
and  conscription  of  young  farmers  to  meet  military  obligations; 
land  tenure  difficulties  and  the  problem  of  land  fragmentation;  the 
lack  of  resources  such  as  farm  equipment,  better  seeds,  and  fer- 
tilizers; and  the  overall  low  level  of  technology. 


164 


The  Economy 


President  Mengistu's  1990  decision  to  allow  free  movement  of 
goods,  to  lift  price  controls,  and  to  provide  farmers  with  security 
of  tenure  was  designed  to  reverse  the  decline  in  Ethiopia's  agricul- 
tural sector.  There  was  much  debate  as  to  whether  or  not  these 
reforms  were  genuine  and  how  effectively  they  could  be  imple- 
mented. Nonetheless,  agricultural  output  rose  by  an  estimated  3 
percent  in  1990-91,  almost  certainly  in  response  to  the  relaxation 
of  government  regulation.  This  modest  increase,  however,  was  not 
enough  to  offset  a  general  decrease  in  GDP  during  the  same  period. 

Land  Use  and  Land  Reform 

Land  Use 

Of  Ethiopia's  total  land  area  of  1,221,480  square  kilometers,  the 
government  estimated  in  the  late  1980s  that  15  percent  was  under 
cultivation  and  51  percent  was  pastureland.  It  was  also  estimated 
that  over  60  percent  of  the  cultivated  area  was  cropland.  Forestland, 
most  of  it  in  the  southwestern  part  of  the  country,  accounted  for 
4  percent  of  the  total  land  area,  according  to  the  government.  These 
figures  varied  from  those  provided  by  the  World  Bank,  which  es- 
timated that  cropland,  pastureland,  and  forestland  accounted  for 
13,  41,  and  25  percent,  respectively,  of  the  total  land  area  in  1987. 

Inaccessibility,  water  shortages,  and  infestations  of  disease-causing 
insects,  mainly  mosquitoes,  prevented  the  use  of  large  parcels  of 
potentially  productive  land.  In  Ethiopia's  lowlands,  for  example, 
the  presence  of  malaria  kept  farmers  from  settling  in  many  areas. 

Most  agricultural  producers  were  subsistence  farmers  with  small 
holdings,  often  broken  into  several  plots.  Most  of  these  farmers 
lived  on  the  highlands,  mainly  at  elevations  of  1 ,500  to  3,000  meters. 
The  population  in  the  lowland  peripheries  (below  1,500  meters) 
was  nomadic,  engaged  mainly  in  livestock  raising. 

There  are  two  predominant  soil  types  in  the  highlands.  The  first, 
found  in  areas  with  relatively  good  drainage,  consists  of  red-to- 
reddish-brown  clayey  loams  that  hold  moisture  and  are  well  en- 
dowed with  needed  minerals,  with  the  exception  of  phosphorus. 
These  types  of  soils  are  found  in  much  of  Ilubabor,  Kefa,  and  Gamo 
Gofa.  The  second  type  consists  of  brownish- to- gray  and  black  soils 
with  a  high  clay  content.  These  soils  are  found  in  both  the  north- 
ern and  the  southern  highlands  in  areas  with  poor  drainage.  They 
are  sticky  when  wet,  hard  when  dry,  and  difficult  to  work.  But 
with  proper  drainage  and  conditioning,  these  soils  have  excellent 
agricultural  potential. 

Sandy  desert  soils  cover  much  of  the  arid  lowlands  in  the  north- 
east and  in  the  Ogaden  area  of  southeastern  Ethiopia.  Because  of 


165 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

low  rainfall,  these  soils  have  limited  agricultural  potential,  except 
in  some  areas  where  rainfall  is  sufficient  for  the  growth  of  natural 
forage  at  certain  times  of  the  year.  These  areas  are  used  by  pas- 
toralists  who  move  back  and  forth  in  the  area  following  the  availa- 
bility of  pasture  for  their  animals. 

The  plains  and  low  foothills  west  of  the  highlands  have  sandy 
and  gray-to-black  clay  soils.  Where  the  topography  permits,  they 
are  suitable  for  farming.  The  soils  of  the  Great  Rift  Valley  often 
are  conducive  to  agriculture  if  water  is  available  for  irrigation.  The 
Awash  River  basin  supports  many  large-scale  commercial  farms 
and  several  irrigated  small  farms. 

Soil  erosion  has  been  one  of  the  country's  major  problems.  Over 
the  centuries,  deforestation,  overgrazing,  and  practices  such  as  cul- 
tivation of  slopes  not  suited  to  agriculture  have  eroded  the  soil, 
a  situation  that  worsened  considerably  during  the  1970s  and  1980s, 
especially  in  Eritrea,  Tigray,  and  parts  of  Gonder  and  Welo.  In 
addition,  the  rugged  topography  of  the  highlands,  the  brief  but  ex- 
tremely heavy  rainfalls  that  characterize  many  areas,  and  centuries- 
old  farming  practices  that  do  not  include  conservation  measures 
have  accelerated  soil  erosion  in  much  of  Ethiopia's  highland  areas. 
In  the  dry  lowlands,  persistent  winds  also  contribute  to  soil  erosion. 

During  the  imperial  era,  the  government  failed  to  implement 
widespread  conservation  measures,  largely  because  the  country's 
complex  land  tenure  system  stymied  attempts  to  halt  soil  erosion 
and  improve  the  land.  After  1975  the  revolutionary  government 
used  peasant  associations  to  accelerate  conservation  work  through- 
out rural  areas.  The  1977  famine  also  provided  an  impetus  to  pro- 
mote conservation.  The  government  mobilized  farmers  and 
organized  "food  for  work"  projects  to  build  terraces  and  plant  trees. 
During  1983-84  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  used  "food  for  work" 
projects  to  raise  65  million  tree  seedlings,  plant  18,000  hectares 
of  land,  and  terrace  9,500  hectares  of  land.  Peasant  associations 
used  361  nurseries  to  plant  11,000  hectares  of  land  in  community 
forest.  Between  1976  and  1985,  the  government  constructed  600,000 
kilometers  of  agricultural  embankments  on  cultivated  land  and 
470,000  kilometers  of  hillside  terraces,  and  it  closed  80,000  hect- 
ares of  steep  slopes  for  regeneration.  However,  the  removal  of  arable 
land  for  conservation  projects  has  threatened  the  welfare  of  increas- 
ing numbers  of  rural  poor.  For  this  reason,  some  environmental 
experts  maintain  that  large-scale  conservation  work  in  Ethiopia  has 
been  ineffective. 

Land  Reform 

Until  the  1974  revolution,  Ethiopia  had  a  complex  land  tenure 
system.  In  Welo  Province,  for  example,  there  were  an  estimated 


166 


The  Economy 


111  types  of  land  tenure.  The  existence  of  so  many  land  tenure 
systems,  coupled  with  the  lack  of  reliable  data,  has  made  it  difficult 
to  give  a  comprehensive  assessment  of  landownership  in  Ethiopia. 
However,  the  tenure  system  can  be  understood  in  a  rudimentary 
way  if  one  examines  it  in  the  context  of  the  basic  distinction  be- 
tween landownership  patterns  in  the  north  and  those  in  the  south. 

Historically,  Ethiopia  was  divided  into  the  northern  highlands, 
which  constituted  the  core  of  the  old  Christian  kingdom,  and  the 
southern  highlands,  most  of  which  were  brought  under  imperial 
rule  by  conquest.  This  north-south  distinction  was  reflected  in  land 
tenure  differences.  In  the  northern  provinces — particularly  Gojam, 
Begemdir  and  Simen  (called  Gonder  after  1974),  Tigray,  highland 
Eritrea,  parts  of  Welo,  and  northern  Shewa — the  major  form  of 
ownership  was  a  type  of  communal  system  known  as  rist  (see  Glos- 
sary). According  to  this  system,  all  descendants  (both  male  and 
female)  of  an  individual  founder  were  entitled  to  a  share,  and  in- 
dividuals had  the  right  to  use  (a  usufruct  right)  a  plot  of  family 
land.  Rist  was  hereditary,  inalienable,  and  inviolable.  No  user  of 
any  piece  of  land  could  sell  his  or  her  share  outside  the  family  or 
mortgage  or  bequeath  his  or  her  share  as  a  gift,  as  the  land  be- 
longed not  to  the  individual  but  to  the  descent  group  (see  Glos- 
sary). Most  peasants  in  the  northern  highlands  held  at  least  some 
rist  land,  but  there  were  some  members  belonging  to  minority  ethnic 
groups  who  were  tenant  farmers. 

The  other  major  form  of  tenure  was  gult  (see  Glossary),  an  owner- 
ship right  acquired  from  the  monarch  or  from  provincial  rulers  who 
were  empowered  to  make  land  grants.  Gult  owners  collected  trib- 
ute from  the  peasantry  and,  until  1966  (when  gult  rights  were 
abolished  in  principle),  exacted  labor  service  as  payment  in  kind 
from  the  peasants.  Until  the  government  instituted  salaries  in  the 
twentieth  century,  gult  rights  were  the  typical  form  of  compensa- 
tion for  an  official. 

Other  forms  of  tenure  included  samon,  mengist,  and  maderia  land. 
Samon  was  land  the  government  had  granted  to  the  Ethiopian  Ortho- 
dox Church  in  perpetuity.  Traditionally,  the  church  had  claimed 
about  one-third  of  Ethiopia's  land;  however,  actual  ownership  prob- 
ably never  reached  this  figure.  Estimates  of  church  holdings  range 
from  10  to  20  percent  of  the  country's  cultivated  land.  Peasants 
who  worked  on  church  land  paid  tribute  to  the  church  (or 
monastery)  rather  than  to  the  emperor.  The  church  lost  all  its  land 
after  the  1974  revolution.  The  state  owned  large  tracts  of  agricul- 
tural land  known  as  mengist  and  maderia.  Mengist  was  land  registered 
as  government  property,  and  maderia  was  land  granted  mainly  to 
government  officials,  war  veterans,  and  other  patriots  in  lieu  of 


167 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

a  pension  or  salary.  Although  it  granted  maderia  land  for  life,  the 
state  possessed  a  reversionary  right  over  all  land  grants.  Govern- 
ment land  comprised  about  12  percent  of  the  country's  agricul- 
tural land. 

In  general,  absentee  landlordism  in  the  north  was  rare,  and  land- 
less tenants  were  few.  For  instance,  tenancy  in  Begemdir  and  Simen 
and  in  Gojam  was  estimated  at  about  2  percent  of  holdings.  In 
the  southern  provinces,  however,  few  farmers  owned  the  land  on 
which  they  worked.  Southern  landownership  patterns  developed 
as  a  result  of  land  measurement  and  land  grants  following  the  Ethio- 
pian conquest  of  the  region  in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twen- 
tieth centuries.  After  conquest,  officials  divided  southern  land 
equally  among  the  state,  the  church,  and  the  indigenous  popula- 
tion. Warlords  who  administered  the  occupied  regions  received  the 
state's  share.  They,  in  turn,  redistributed  part  of  their  share  to  their 
officers  and  soldiers.  The  government  distributed  the  church's  share 
among  the  church  hierarchy  in  the  same  manner.  Officials  divided 
the  rest  between  the  traditional  leaders  {balabats — see  Glossary)  and 
the  indigenous  people.  Thus,  the  loss  of  two-thirds  of  the  land  to 
the  new  landlords  and  the  church  made  many  local  people  tenants 
(gebbars).  Tenancy  in  the  southern  provinces  ranged  between  65 
and  80  percent  of  the  holdings,  and  tenant  payments  to  landowners 
averaged  as  high  as  50  percent  of  the  produce. 

In  the  lowland  periphery  and  the  Great  Rift  Valley,  the  tradi- 
tional practice  of  transhumance  and  the  allocation  of  pastoral  land 
according  to  tribal  custom  remained  undisturbed  until  after  World 
War  II.  These  two  areas  are  inhabited  by  pastoralists,  including 
the  Afar  and  Isa  in  eastern  Eritrea,  Welo,  and  Harerge;  the  Somali 
in  the  Ogaden;  the  Borana  in  Sidamo  and  Bale;  and  the  Kereyu 
in  the  Great  Rift  Valley  area  of  Shewa.  The  pastoral  social  struc- 
ture is  based  on  a  kinship  system  with  strong  interclan  connections; 
grazing  and  water  rights  are  regulated  by  custom.  Until  the  1950s, 
this  pastoral  life  remained  largely  undisturbed  by  the  highlanders, 
who  intensely  disliked  the  hot  and  humid  lowland  climate  and  feared 
malaria.  Beginning  in  the  1950s,  however,  the  malaria  eradica- 
tion programs  made  irrigation  agriculture  in  these  areas  possible. 
The  government's  desire  to  promote  such  agriculture,  combined 
with  its  policy  of  creating  new  tax  revenues,  created  pressure  on 
many  pastoralists,  especially  the  Afar  and  the  Arsi  (a  division  of 
the  Oromo).  Major  concessionaires,  such  as  the  Tendaho  Cotton 
Plantation  (managed  until  the  1974  revolution  by  the  British  firm 
Mitchell  Cotts)  and  the  Wonji  Sugar  Plantation  (managed  by  HVA, 
a  Dutch  company),  acquired  large  tracts  of  traditional  Afar  and 
Arsi  grazing  land  and  converted  it  into  large-scale  commercial 


168 


The  Economy 


farms.  The  loss  of  grazing  land  to  these  concessions  significantly 
affected  traditional  migration  patterns  for  grazing  and  water. 

In  the  northern  and  southern  parts  of  Ethiopia,  peasant  farm- 
ers lacked  the  means  to  improve  production  because  of  the  frag- 
mentation of  holdings,  a  lack  of  credit,  and  the  absence  of  modern 
facilities.  Particularly  in  the  south,  the  insecurity  of  tenure  and  high 
rents  killed  the  peasants'  incentive  to  improve  production. 

By  the  mid-1960s,  many  sectors  of  Ethiopian  society  favored  land 
reform.  University  students  led  the  land  reform  movement  and  cam- 
paigned against  the  government's  reluctance  to  introduce  land  re- 
form programs  and  the  lack  of  commitment  to  integrated  rural 
development.  By  1974  it  was  clear  that  the  archaic  land  tenure  sys- 
tem was  one  of  the  major  factors  responsible  for  the  backward  con- 
dition of  Ethiopia's  agriculture  and  the  onset  of  the  revolution.  On 
March  4,  1975,  the  Derg  announced  its  land  reform  program.  The 
government  nationalized  rural  land  without  compensation, 
abolished  tenancy,  forbade  the  hiring  of  wage  labor  on  private 
farms,  ordered  all  commercial  farms  to  remain  under  state  con- 
trol, and  granted  each  peasant  family  so-called  "possessing  rights" 
to  a  plot  of  land  not  to  exceed  ten  hectares. 

Tenant  farmers  in  southern  Ethiopia,  where  the  average  tenan- 
cy was  as  high  as  55  percent  and  rural  elites  exploited  farmers, 
welcomed  the  land  reform.  But  in  the  northern  highlands,  where 
communal  ownership  (rist)  dominated  and  large  holdings  and  ten- 
ancy were  exceptions,  many  people  resisted  land  reform.  Despite 
the  special  provision  for  communal  areas  (Article  19  of  the  procla- 
mation gave  peasants  in  the  communal  areas  "possessing  rights" 
to  the  land  they  were  tilling  at  the  time  of  the  proclamation)  and 
the  PMAC's  efforts  to  reassure  farmers  that  land  reform  would 
not  affect  them  negatively,  northerners  remained  suspicious  of  the 
new  government's  intentions.  The  reform  held  no  promise  of  gain 
for  most  northerners;  rather,  many  northern  farmers  perceived  land 
reform  as  an  attack  on  their  rights  to  rist  land.  Resistance  intensi- 
fied when  zemecha  (see  Glossary)  members  campaigned  for  collec- 
tivization of  land  and  oxen. 

Land  reform  had  the  least  impact  on  the  lowland  peripheries, 
where  nomads  traditionally  maintained  their  claims  over  grazing 
lands.  The  new  proclamation  gave  them  rights  of  possession  to  land 
they  used  for  grazing.  Therefore,  the  nomads  did  not  perceive  the 
new  program  as  a  threat.  However,  in  the  Afar  area  of  the  lower 
Awash  Valley,  where  large-scale  commercial  estates  had  thrived, 
there  was  opposition  to  land  reform,  led  mainly  by  tribal  leaders 
(and  large  landowners),  such  as  Ali  Mirah,  the  sultan  of  Aussa. 


169 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  land  reform  destroyed  the  feudal  order;  changed  landowning 
patterns,  particularly  in  the  south,  in  favor  of  peasants  and  small 
landowners;  and  provided  the  opportunity  for  peasants  to  partici- 
pate in  local  matters  by  permitting  them  to  form  associations. 
However,  problems  associated  with  declining  agricultural  produc- 
tivity and  poor  farming  techniques  still  were  prevalent. 

Government  attempts  to  implement  land  reform  also  created 
problems  related  to  land  fragmentation,  insecurity  of  tenure,  and 
shortages  of  farm  inputs  and  tools.  Peasant  associations  often  were 
periodically  compelled  to  redistribute  land  to  accommodate  young 
families  or  new  households  moving  into  their  area.  The  process 
meant  not  only  smaller  farms  but  also  the  fragmentation  of  hold- 
ings, which  were  often  scattered  into  small  plots  to  give  families 
land  of  comparable  quality.  Consequentiy,  individual  holdings  were 
frequently  far  smaller  than  the  permitted  maximum  allotment  of 
ten  hectares.  A  1979  study  showed  that  around  Addis  Ababa  in- 
dividual holdings  ranged  from  1.0  to  1.6  hectares  and  that  about 
48  percent  of  the  parcels  were  less  than  one-fourth  of  a  hectare  in 
size.  Another  study,  of  Dejen  awraja  (subregion)  in  Gojam,  found 
that  land  fragmentation  had  been  exacerbated  since  the  revolution. 
For  example,  during  the  pre-reform  period,  sixty-one  out  of  200 
farmer  respondents  owned  three  or  four  parcels  of  land;  after  the 
reform,  the  corresponding  number  was  135  farmers. 

The  second  problem  related  to  security  of  tenure,  which  was 
threatened  by  increasing  pressure  to  redistribute  land  and  to  col- 
lectivize farms.  Many  peasants  were  reluctant  to  improve  their  land 
because  they  were  afraid  that  they  would  not  receive  adequate  com- 
pensation for  upgrades.  The  third  problem  developed  as  a  result 
of  the  military  government's  failure  to  provide  farmers  with  basic 
items  like  seeds,  oxen,  and  fertilizer.  For  instance,  one  study  of 
four  communities  in  different  parts  of  Ethiopia  found  that  up  to 
50  percent  of  the  peasants  in  some  areas  lacked  oxen  and  about 
40  percent  did  not  have  plows. 

Government  Rural  Programs 

In  1984  the  founding  congress  of  the  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia 
( WPE)  emphasized  the  need  for  a  coordinated  strategy  based  on 
socialist  principles  to  accelerate  agricultural  development.  To  imple- 
ment this  strategy,  the  government  relied  on  peasant  associations  and 
rural  development,  cooperatives  and  state  farms,  resettlement  and 
villagization,  increased  food  production,  and  a  new  marketing  policy. 

Peasant  Associations  and  Rural  Development 

Articles  8  and  10  of  the  1975  Land  Reform  Proclamation  re- 
quired that  peasants  be  organized  into  a  hierarchy  of  associations 


170 


Planting  cotton  in  the  Awash  Valley 
Courtesy  United  Nations 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

that  would  facilitate  the  implementation  of  rural  development  pro- 
grams and  policies.  Accordingly,  after  the  land  reform  announce- 
ment, the  government  mobilized  more  than  60,000  students  to 
organize  peasants  into  associations.  By  the  end  of  1987,  there  were 
20,367  peasant  associations  with  a  membership  of  5.7  million  farm- 
ers. Each  association  covered  an  area  of  800  hectares,  and  mem- 
bers included  tenants,  landless  laborers,  and  landowners  holding 
fewer  than  ten  hectares.  Former  landowners  who  had  held  more 
than  ten  hectares  of  land  could  join  an  association  only  after  the 
completion  of  land  redistribution.  An  umbrella  organization  known 
as  the  All-Ethiopia  Peasants'  Association  (AEPA)  represented  local 
associations.  Peasant  associations  assumed  a  wide  range  of  respon- 
sibilities, including  implementation  of  government  land  use  direc- 
tives; adjudication  of  land  disputes;  encouragement  of  development 
programs,  such  as  water  and  land  conservation;  construction  of 
schools,  clinics,  and  cooperatives;  organization  of  defense  squads; 
and  tax  collection.  Peasant  associations  also  became  involved  in 
organizing  forestry  programs,  local  service  and  production  cooper- 
atives, road  construction,  and  data  collection  projects,  such  as  the 
1984  census. 

Cooperatives  and  State  Farms 

Starting  in  1976,  the  government  encouraged  farmers  to  form 
cooperatives.  Between  1978  and  1981,  the  PMAC  issued  a  series 
of  proclamations  and  directives  outlining  procedures  for  the  for- 
mation of  service  cooperatives  and  producers'  cooperatives.  Ser- 
vice cooperatives  provided  basic  services,  such  as  the  sale  of  farm 
inputs  and  consumer  items  that  were  often  rationed,  the  provision 
of  loans,  the  education  of  peasant  association  members  in  socialist 
philosophy,  and  the  promotion  of  cottage  industries. 

The  producers'  cooperatives  alleviated  shortages  of  inputs  (be- 
cause farmers  could  pool  resources)  and  problems  associated  with 
the  fragmentation  of  landholdings.  The  government  ordered  the 
creation  of  these  cooperatives  because  of  its  belief  that  small  farm- 
ers were  inefficient  and  were  unable  to  take  advantage  of  econo- 
mies of  scale. 

The  producers'  cooperatives  developed  in  three  stages.  The  first 
stage  was  the  melba,  an  elementary  type  of  cooperative  that  required 
members  to  pool  land  (with  the  exception  of  plots  of  up  to  2,000 
square  meters,  which  could  be  set  aside  for  private  use)  and  to  share 
oxen  and  farm  implements.  The  second  stage,  welba,  required  mem- 
bers to  transfer  their  resources  to  the  cooperative  and  reduce  pri- 
vate plots  to  1,000  square  meters.  The  third  stage,  the  weland, 
abolished  private  land  use  and  established  advanced  forms  of 


172 


The  Economy 


cooperatives,  whose  goal  was  to  use  mechanized  farming  with  mem- 
bers organized  into  production  brigades.  Under  this  system,  in- 
come would  be  distributed  based  on  labor  contributions. 

The  government  provided  a  number  of  inducements  to  pro- 
ducers' cooperatives,  including  priority  for  credits,  fertilizers,  im- 
proved seed,  and  access  to  consumer  items  and  building  materials. 
According  to  the  ten-year  plan,  more  than  half  of  the  country's 
cultivated  land  would  be  organized  into  producers'  cooperatives 
by  1994. 

Despite  the  incentives,  farmers  responded  less  than  enthusiasti- 
cally. Farmers  saw  the  move  to  form  cooperatives  as  a  prelude  to 
the  destruction  of  their  "family  farms."  By  1985/86  there  were 
only  2,323  producers'  cooperatives,  of  which  only  255  were 
registered.  Some  critics  argued  that  the  resistance  of  farmers  caused 
the  government  to  formulate  its  resettlement  and  villagization 
programs. 

A  major  component  of  the  government's  agricultural  policy  since 
the  1974  revolution  has  been  the  development  of  large-scale  state 
farms.  After  the  1975  land  reform,  the  Derg  converted  a  majority 
of  the  estimated  75,000  hectares  of  large,  commercial  farms  owned 
by  individuals  and  cooperatives  into  state  farms.  Since  then,  the 
government  has  expanded  the  size  of  state  farms.  In  1987/88  there 
were  about  216,000  hectares  of  state  farmland,  accounting  for  3.3 
percent  of  the  total  cultivated  area.  The  ten-year  plan  indicated 
that  state  farms  would  be  expanded  to  468,000  hectares  by  1994, 
accounting  for  6.4  percent  of  the  cultivated  land. 

The  primary  motive  for  the  expansion  of  state  farms  was  the 
desire  to  reverse  the  drop  in  food  production  that  has  continued 
since  the  revolution.  After  the  1975  land  reform,  peasants  began 
withholding  grain  from  the  market  to  drive  up  prices  because 
government  price-control  measures  had  created  shortages  of  con- 
sumer items  such  as  coffee,  cooking  oil,  salt,  and  sugar.  Addition- 
ally, increased  peasant  consumption  caused  shortages  of  food  items 
such  as  teff  (see  Glossary),  wheat,  corn,  and  other  grains  in  urban 
areas.  The  problem  became  so  serious  that  Mengistu  lashed  out 
against  the  individual  and  petit  burgeois  tendencies  of  the  peasan- 
try and  their  capitalist  mentality  on  the  occasion  of  the  fourth  an- 
niversary of  military  rule  in  September  1978.  Mengistu  and  his 
advisers  believed  that  state  farms  would  produce  grain  for  urban 
areas  and  raw  materials  for  domestic  industry  and  would  also  in- 
crease production  of  cash  crops  such  as  coffee  to  generate  badly 
needed  foreign  exchange.  Accordingly,  state  farms  received  a  large 
share  of  the  country's  resources  for  agriculture;  from  1982  to  1990, 
this  totaled  about  43  percent  of  the  government's  agricultural 


173 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

investment.  In  1983  state  farms  received  76  percent  of  the  total 
allocation  of  chemical  fertilizers,  95  percent  of  the  improved  seeds, 
and  81  percent  of  agricultural  credit.  In  terms  of  subsidies,  between 
1982/83  and  1985/86  the  various  state  farm  corporations  received 
more  than  90  million  birr  in  direct  subsidies.  Despite  the  empha- 
sis on  state  farms,  state  farm  production  accounted  for  only  6  per- 
cent of  total  agricultural  output  in  1987  (although  meeting  65 
percent  of  urban  needs),  leaving  peasant  farmers  responsible  for 
over  90  percent  of  production. 

The  stress  on  large-scale  state  farms  was  under  attack  by  Western 
donors,  who  channeled  their  agricultural  aid  to  the  peasant  sec- 
tor. These  donors  maintained  that  experiences  elsewhere  in  Africa 
and  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Soviet  Union  had  shown  that  state 
farms  were  inefficient  and  a  drain  on  scare  resources. 

Resettlement  and  Villagization 

The  policy  of  encouraging  voluntary  resettlement  went  back  to 
1958,  when  the  government  established  the  first  known  planned 
resettlement  in  Sidamo.  Shortly  after  the  1974  revolution,  it  be- 
came Derg  policy  to  accelerate  resettlement.  Article  18  of  the  1975 
Land  Reform  Proclamation  stated  that  "the  government  shall  have 
the  responsibility  to  settle  peasants  or  to  establish  cottage  indus- 
tries to  accommodate  those  who,  as  a  result  of  distribution  of 
land  .  .  .  remain  with  little  or  no  land."  Accordingly,  in  1975/76 
there  were  eighty-eight  settlement  centers  accommodating  38,818 
households.  The  government  conducted  most  of  these  resettlement 
programs  under  the  auspices  of  the  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Com- 
mission (RRC)  and  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture.  By  1982  there  were 
112  planned  settlements  populated  by  more  than  120,000  people. 
The  settlements  were  concentrated  mainly  in  the  south  and  south- 
west. In  1984  Addis  Ababa  announced  its  intention  to  resettle  1.5 
million  people  from  the  drought-affected  northern  regions  to  the 
south  and  southwest,  where  arable  land  was  plentiful.  By  1986  the 
government  had  resettled  more  than  600,000  people  to  three  set- 
tlement areas.  More  than  250,000  went  to  Welega;  about  150,000 
settled  in  the  Gambela  area  of  Ilubabor;  and  just  over  100,000  went 
to  Pawe,  the  largest  planned  resettlement  in  Gojam  and  largely 
sustained  by  Italian  financial  support.  In  addition,  another  78,000 
went  to  Kefa,  Shewa,  and  western  Gonder. 

In  mid- 1986  the  government  halted  the  resettlement  program, 
largely  to  fend  off  the  negative  reaction  from  the  international  com- 
munity. But  in  November  1987  the  program  resumed,  and  in 
March  1988  Mengistu  spoke  of  the  need  to  move  at  least  7  million 


174 


The  Economy 


people.  He  claimed  resettlement  would  resolve  the  country's  recur- 
ring drought  problem  and  would  ease  population  pressure  from 
northern  areas  where  the  land  had  been  badly  overused.  Western 
donors  and  governments,  whom  Addis  Ababa  expected  to  help  with 
the  program,  remained  apprehensive  of  the  government's  inten- 
tions, however.  Some  believed  that  the  plan  to  resettle  1.5  million 
people  by  1994  was  unrealistic,  given  the  country's  strained 
finances.  Others  argued  that  resettlement  was  a  ploy  to  depopu- 
late areas  of  resistance,  weaken  the  guerrillas'  support  base,  and 
deny  them  access  to  recruits,  particularly  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray. 
Additional  arguments  against  resettlement  included  charges  of 
human  rights  violations,  forced  separations  of  families,  and  lack 
of  medical  attention  in  resettlement  centers,  which  resulted  in  thou- 
sands of  deaths  from  malaria  and  sleeping  sickness. 

Although  many  of  these  charges  were  valid,  some  criticisms  may 
have  been  unfounded.  For  instance,  the  claim  that  the  resettlement 
was  a  ploy  to  depopulate  the  rebel  areas  may  not  have  been  valid, 
given  that  by  1986  only  15  percent  of  the  600,000  resettled  peasants 
were  from  Tigray  and  none  were  from  Eritrea.  More  than  80  per- 
cent of  those  resettled  were  from  Welo  and  Shewa. 

In  1985  the  government  initiated  a  new  relocation  program 
known  as  villagization.  The  objectives  of  the  program,  which 
grouped  scattered  farming  communities  throughout  the  country 
into  small  village  clusters,  were  to  promote  rational  land  use;  con- 
serve resources;  provide  access  to  clean  water  and  to  health  and 
education  services;  and  strengthen  security.  Government  guide- 
lines stipulated  that  villages  were  to  house  200  to  300  households, 
with  100-square-meter  compounds  for  each  family. 

In  1985  Addis  Ababa  established  a  national  coordinating  com- 
mittee to  oversee  the  villagization  plan's  implementation.  By  March 
1986,  about  4.6  million  people  in  Shewa,  Arsi,  and  Harerge  had 
been  relocated  into  more  than  4,500  villages.  Although  the  govern- 
ment had  villagized  about  13  million  people  by  1989,  international 
criticism,  deteriorating  security  conditions,  and  lack  of  resources 
doomed  the  plan  to  failure.  Nevertheless,  Mengistu  remained  com- 
mitted to  the  villagization  concept. 

Opponents  of  villagization  argued  that  the  scheme  was  disrup- 
tive to  agricultural  production  because  the  government  moved  many 
farmers  during  the  planting  and  harvesting  seasons.  There  also  was 
concern  that  villagization  could  have  a  negative  impact  on  fragile 
local  resources,  particularly  on  water  and  grazing  land;  accelerate 
the  spread  of  communicable  diseases;  and  increase  problems  with 
plant  pests  and  diseases.  In  early  1990,  the  government  essentially 
abandoned  villagization  when  it  announced  new  economic  policies 


175 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

that  called  for  free-market  reforms  and  a  relaxation  of  centralized 
planning. 

Agricultural  Production 

The  effect  of  the  PMAC's  land  reform  program  on  food  produc- 
tion and  its  marketing  and  distribution  policies  were  among  two 
of  the  major  controversies  surrounding  the  revolution.  Available 
data  on  crop  production  show  that  land  reform  and  the  various 
government  rural  programs  had  a  minimal  impact  on  increasing 
the  food  supply,  as  production  levels  displayed  considerable  fluc- 
tuations and  low  growth  rates  at  best  (see  table  13,  Appendix). 

Major  Cash  Crops 

The  most  important  cash  crop  in  Ethiopia  was  coffee.  During 
the  1970s,  coffee  exports  accounted  for  50  to  60  percent  of  the  total 
value  of  all  exports,  although  coffee's  share  dropped  to  25  percent 
as  a  result  of  the  economic  dislocation  following  the  1974  revolu- 
tion. By  1976  coffee  exports  had  recovered,  and  in  the  five  years 
ending  in  1988/89,  coffee  accounted  for  about  63  percent  of  the 
value  of  exports.  Domestically,  coffee  contributed  about  20  per- 
cent of  the  government's  revenue.  Approximately  25  percent  of 
Ethiopia's  population  depended  directly  or  indirectly  on  coffee  for 
its  livelihood. 

Ethiopia's  coffee  is  almost  exclusively  of  the  arabica  type,  which 
grows  best  at  altitudes  between  1,000  and  2,000  meters.  Coffee 
grows  wild  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  although  most  Ethiopian 
coffee  is  produced  in  the  southern  and  western  regions  of  Kefa, 
Sidamo,  Ilubabor,  Gamo  Gofa,  Welega,  and  Harerge. 

Reliable  estimates  of  coffee  production  in  Ethiopia  were  unavail- 
able as  of  mid- 1991 .  However,  some  observers  indicated  that  Ethio- 
pia produced  between  140,000  and  180,000  tons  annually.  The 
Ethiopian  government  placed  coffee  production  at  187,000  tons 
in  1979/80,  233,000  tons  in  1983/84,  and  172,000  tons  in  1985/86. 
Estimates  for  1986/87  and  1987/88  were  put  at  186,000  and  189,000 
tons,  respectively.  Preliminary  figures  from  other  sources  indicated 
that  coffee  production  continued  to  rise  in  1988/89  and  1989/90 
but  registered  a  sharp  decline  of  perhaps  as  much  as  one-third  dur- 
ing 1990/91.  About  44  percent  of  the  coffee  produced  was  exported. 
Although  the  potential  for  local  coffee  consumption  was  high,  the 
government,  eager  to  increase  its  hard-currency  reserves,  sup- 
pressed domestic  consumption  by  controlling  coffee  sales.  The 
government  also  restricted  the  transfer  of  coffee  from  coffee- 
producing  areas  to  other  parts  of  the  country.  This  practice  made 


176 


The  Economy 


the  price  of  local  coffee  two  to  three  times  higher  than  the  price 
of  exported  coffee. 

About  98  percent  of  the  coffee  was  produced  by  peasants  on  small 
holdings  of  less  than  a  hectare,  and  the  remaining  2  percent  was 
produced  by  state  farms.  Some  estimates  indicated  that  yields  on 
peasant  farms  were  higher  than  those  on  state  farms.  In  the  1980s, 
as  part  of  an  effort  to  increase  production  and  to  improve  the  cul- 
tivation and  harvesting  of  coffee,  the  government  created  the  Minis- 
try of  Coffee  and  Tea  Development,  which  was  responsible  for 
production  and  marketing.  The  ten-year  plan  called  for  an  increase 
in  the  size  of  state  farms  producing  coffee  from  14,000-15,000  hect- 
ares to  50,000  hectares  by  1994.  However,  given  the  strain  on  the 
government's  financial  resources  and  the  consistently  declining 
coffee  price  in  the  world  market,  this  may  have  been  an  unrealis- 
tic goal. 

The  decline  in  world  coffee  prices,  which  began  in  1987,  reduced 
Ethiopia's  foreign-exchange  earnings.  In  early  1989,  for  example, 
the  price  of  one  kilogram  of  coffee  was  US$0.58;  by  June  it  had 
dropped  to  US$0.32.  Mengistu  told  the  1989  WPE  party  congress 
that  at  US$0.32  per  kilogram,  foreign-exchange  earnings  from 
coffee  would  drop  by  240  million  birr,  and  government  revenue 
would  be  reduced  by  140  million  birr  by  the  end  of  1989.  Such 
declines  not  only  hampered  the  government's  ability  to  implement 
its  political,  economic,  and  social  programs  but  also  reduced  Ad- 
dis Ababa's  capacity  to  prosecute  its  war  against  various  rebel 
groups  in  northern  Ethiopia. 

Before  the  revolution,  pulses  and  oilseeds  played  an  important 
role,  second  only  to  coffee,  in  Ethiopia's  exports.  In  EFY  1974/75, 
pulses  and  oilseeds  accounted  for  34  percent  of  export  earnings 
(about  163  million  birr),  but  this  share  declined  to  about  3  percent 
(about  30  million  birr)  in  EFY  1988/89  (see  table  14,  Appendix). 
Three  factors  contributed  to  the  decline  in  the  relative  importance 
of  pulses  and  oilseeds.  First,  the  recurring  droughts  had  devastated 
the  country's  main  areas  where  pulses  and  oilseeds  were  produced. 
Second,  because  peasants  faced  food  shortages,  they  gave  priority 
to  cereal  staples  to  sustain  themselves.  Finally,  although  the  produc- 
tion cost  of  pulses  and  oilseeds  continued  to  rise,  the  government's 
price  control  policy  left  virtually  unchanged  the  official  procure- 
ment price  of  these  crops,  thus  substantially  reducing  net  income 
from  them.  The  Ethiopian  Pulses  and  Oilseeds  Corporation,  the 
agency  responsible  for  exporting  two-thirds  of  these  crops,  reported 
losses  in  EFY  1982/83  and  EFY  1983/84.  In  EFY  1983/84,  the  cor- 
poration received  export  subsidies  of  more  than  9  million  birr.  Sub- 
sequently, production  of  both  crops  failed  to  improve;  by  1988  the 


177 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


output  index,  whose  base  year  was  1972  (100),  was  85.3  for  pulses 
and  15.8  for  oilseeds.  Given  the  country's  economic  and  political 
problems  and  the  ongoing  war  in  the  north,  there  was  little  prospect 
of  improvement. 

Cotton  is  grown  throughout  Ethiopia  below  elevations  of  about 
1,400  meters.  Because  most  of  the  lowlands  lack  adequate  rain- 
fall, cotton  cultivation  depends  largely  on  irrigation.  Before  the  revo- 
lution, large-scale  commercial  cotton  plantations  were  developed 
in  the  Awash  Valley  and  the  Humera  areas.  The  Tendaho  Cotton 
Plantation  in  the  lower  Awash  Valley  was  one  of  Ethiopia's  larg- 
est cotton  plantations.  Rain-fed  cotton  also  grew  in  Humera,  Bi- 
late  (in  Sidamo),  and  Arba  Minch  (in  Gamo  Gofa). 

Since  the  revolution,  most  commercial  cotton  has  been  grown 
on  irrigated  state  farms,  mostly  in  the  Awash  Valley  area.  Produc- 
tion jumped  from  43,500  tons  in  1974/75  to  74,900  tons  in  1984/85. 
Similarly,  the  area  of  cultivation  increased  from  22,600  hectares 
in  1974/75  to  33,900  hectares  in  1984/85. 

Major  Staple  Crops 

Ethiopia's  major  staple  crops  include  a  variety  of  cereals,  pulses, 
oilseeds,  and  coffee.  Grains  are  the  most  important  field  crops  and 
the  chief  element  in  the  diet  of  most  Ethiopians.  The  principal  grains 
are  teff,  wheat,  barley,  corn,  sorghum,  and  millet.  The  first  three 
are  primarily  cool-weather  crops  cultivated  at  altitudes  generally 
above  1,500  meters.  Teff,  indigenous  to  Ethiopia,  furnishes  the 
flour  for  injera,  an  unleavened  bread  that  is  the  principal  form  in 
which  grain  is  consumed  in  the  highlands  and  in  urban  centers 
throughout  the  country.  Barley  is  grown  mostly  between  2,000  and 
3,500  meters.  A  major  subsistence  crop,  barley  is  used  as  food  and 
in  the  production  of  tella,  a  locally  produced  beer. 

Sorghum,  millet,  and  corn  are  cultivated  mostly  in  warmer  areas 
at  lower  altitudes  along  the  country's  western,  southwestern,  and 
eastern  peripheries.  Sorghum  and  millet,  which  are  drought  resis- 
tant, grow  well  at  low  elevations  where  rainfall  is  less  reliable.  Corn 
is  grown  chiefly  between  elevations  of  1 ,500  and  2,200  meters  and 
requires  large  amounts  of  rainfall  to  ensure  good  harvests.  These 
three  grains  constitute  the  staple  foods  of  a  good  part  of  the  popu- 
lation and  are  major  items  in  the  diet  of  the  nomads. 

Pulses  are  the  second  most  important  element  in  the  national 
diet  and  a  principal  protein  source.  They  are  boiled,  roasted,  or 
included  in  a  stew-like  dish  known  as  wot,  which  is  sometimes  a 
main  dish  and  sometimes  a  supplementary  food.  Pulses,  grown 
widely  at  all  altitudes  from  sea  level  to  about  3,000  meters,  are 


178 


Fruit  stall  in  Addis  Ababa 
Courtesy  Paul  Henze 

more  prevalent  in  the  northern  and  central  highlands.  Pulses  were 
a  particularly  important  export  item  before  the  revolution. 

The  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church  traditionally  has  forbidden  con- 
sumption of  animal  fats  on  many  days  of  the  year.  As  a  result, 
vegetable  oils  are  widely  used,  and  oilseed  cultivation  is  an  impor- 
tant agricultural  activity.  The  most  important  oilseed  is  the  in- 
digenous niger  seed  (neug),  which  is  grown  on  50  percent  or  more 
of  the  area  devoted  to  oilseeds.  Niger  seed  is  found  mostly  in  the 
northern  and  central  highlands  at  elevations  between  1,800  and 
2,500  meters.  Flaxseed,  also  indigenous,  is  cultivated  in  the  same 
general  area  as  niger  seed.  The  third  most  important  oilseed  is  ses- 
ame, which  grows  at  elevations  from  sea  level  to  about  1,500  meters. 
In  addition  to  its  domestic  use,  sesame  is  also  the  principal  export 
oilseed.  Oilseeds  of  lesser  significance  include  castor  beans,  rape- 
seed,  groundnuts  (peanuts),  and  safflower  and  sunflower  seeds. 
Most  oilseeds  are  raised  by  small-scale  farmers,  but  sesame  was 
also  grown  by  large-scale  commercial  farms  before  the  era  of  land 
reform  and  the  nationalization  of  agribusiness. 

Ensete,  known  locally  as  false  banana,  is  an  important  food  source 
in  Ethiopia's  southern  and  southwestern  highlands.  It  is  cultivated 
principally  by  the  Gurage,  Sidama,  and  several  other  ethnic  groups 
in  the  region.  Resembling  the  banana  but  bearing  an  inedible  fruit, 


179 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

the  plant  produces  large  quantities  of  starch  in  its  underground 
rhizome  and  an  above-ground  stem  that  can  reach  a  height  of  several 
meters.  Ensete  flour  constitutes  the  staple  food  of  the  local  people. 
Taro,  yams,  and  sweet  potatoes  are  commonly  grown  in  the  same 
region  as  the  ensete. 

The  consumption  of  vegetables  and  fruits  is  relatively  limited, 
largely  because  of  their  high  cost.  Common  vegetables  include 
onions,  peppers,  squash,  and  a  cabbage  similar  to  kale.  Demand 
for  vegetables  has  stimulated  truck  farming  around  the  main  urban 
areas  such  as  Addis  Ababa  and  Asmera.  Prior  to  the  revolution, 
urbanization  increased  the  demand  for  fruit,  leading  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  citrus  orchards  in  areas  with  access  to  irrigation  in 
Shewa,  Arsi,  Harerge,  and  Eritrea.  The  Mengistu  regime  en- 
couraged fruit  and  vegetable  production.  Fresh  fruits,  including 
citrus  and  bananas,  as  well  as  fresh  and  frozen  vegetables,  became 
important  export  items,  but  their  profitability  was  marginal.  The 
Ethiopian  Fruit  and  Vegetable  Marketing  Enterprise  (EFVME), 
which  handled  about  75  percent  of  Ethiopia's  exports  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  in  1984-85,  had  to  receive  government  subsidies  be- 
cause of  losses. 

Ethiopia's  demand  for  grain  continued  to  increase  because  of 
population  pressures,  while  supply  remained  short,  largely  because 
of  drought  and  government  agricultural  policies,  such  as  price  con- 
trols, which  adversely  affected  crop  production.  Food  production 
had  consistently  declined  throughout  the  1980s.  Consequently, 
Ethiopia  became  a  net  importer  of  grain  worth  about  243  million 
birr  annually  from  1983/84  to  1987/88.  The  food  deficit  estimate 
for  the  1985/89  period  indicated  that  production  averaged  about 
6  million  tons  while  demand  reached  about  10  million  tons,  thus 
creating  an  annual  deficit  of  roughly  4  million  tons.  Much  of  the 
food  deficit  was  covered  through  food  aid.  Between  1984/85  and 
1986/87,  at  the  height  of  the  drought,  Ethiopia  received  more  than 
1.7  million  tons  of  grain,  about  14  percent  of  the  total  food  aid 
for  Africa.  In  addition,  Ethiopia  spent  341  million  birr  on  food 
purchases  during  the  1985-87  period. 

Livestock 

Livestock  production  plays  an  important  role  in  Ethiopia's  econ- 
omy. Estimates  for  1987  indicated  that  livestock  production  contrib- 
uted one-third  of  agriculture's  share  of  GDP,  or  nearly  15  percent 
of  total  GDP.  Hides  and  skins  constituted  the  second  largest  ex- 
port earner,  averaging  about  15  percent  of  the  total  export  value 
during  the  period  1984/85  to  1988/89;  live  animals  averaged  around 
3  percent  of  the  total  value  of  exports  during  the  same  period. 


180 


The  Economy 


Although  varying  from  region  to  region,  the  role  of  livestock  in 
the  Ethiopian  economy  was  greater  than  the  figures  suggest.  Almost 
the  entire  rural  population  was  involved  in  some  way  with  animal 
husbandry,  whose  role  included  the  provision  of  draft  power,  food, 
cash,  transportation,  fuel,  and,  especially  in  pastoral  areas,  social 
prestige.  In  the  highlands,  oxen  provided  draft  power  in  crop  produc- 
tion. In  pastoral  areas,  livestock  formed  the  basis  of  the  economy. 
Per  capita  meat  consumption  was  high  by  developing  countries'  stan- 
dards, an  estimated  thirteen  kilograms  annually.  According  to  a  1987 
estimate,  beef  accounted  for  about  51  percent  of  all  meat  consump- 
tion, followed  by  mutton  and  lamb  (19  percent),  poultry  (15  per- 
cent), and  goat  (14  percent). 

Ethiopia's  estimated  livestock  population  of  about  78.4  million 
in  1988  was  believed  to  be  Africa's  largest.  There  were  approxi- 
mately 31  million  cattle,  23.4  million  sheep,  17.5  million  goats, 
5.5  million  horses  and  mules,  1  million  camels,  and  57  million 
poultry.  Livestock  was  distributed  throughout  the  country,  with 
the  greatest  concentration  in  the  highlands,  where  more  than  90 
percent  of  these  animals  were  located.  The  raising  of  livestock  al- 
ways has  been  largely  a  subsistence  activity. 

Ethiopia  has  great  potential  for  increased  livestock  production, 
both  for  local  use  and  for  export.  However,  expansion  was  con- 
strained by  inadequate  nutrition,  disease,  a  lack  of  support  ser- 
vices such  as  extension  services,  insufficient  data  with  which  to  plan 
improved  services,  and  inadequate  information  on  how  to  improve 
animal  breeding,  marketing,  and  processing.  The  high  concentra- 
tion of  animals  in  the  highlands,  together  with  the  fact  that  cattle 
are  often  kept  for  status,  reduces  the  economic  potential  of  Ethio- 
pian livestock. 

Both  the  imperial  and  the  Marxist  governments  tried  to  improve 
livestock  production  by  instituting  programs  such  as  free  vaccina- 
tion, well-digging,  construction  of  feeder  roads,  and  improvement 
of  pastureland,  largely  through  international  organizations  such 
as  the  World  Bank  and  the  African  Development  Bank.  The  Men- 
gistu  regime  also  opened  veterinary  stations  at  Bahir  Dar,  Buno 
Bedele,  and  Debre  Zeyit  to  provide  treatment  and  vaccination 
services. 

Cattle  in  Ethiopia  are  almost  entirely  of  the  zebu  type  and  are 
poor  sources  of  milk  and  meat.  However,  these  cattle  do  relatively 
well  under  the  traditional  production  system.  About  70  percent  of 
the  cattle  in  1987  were  in  the  highlands,  and  the  remaining  30  per- 
cent were  kept  by  nomadic  pastoralists  in  the  lowland  areas.  Meat 
and  milk  yields  are  low  and  losses  high,  especially  among  calves 
and  young  stock.  Contagious  diseases  and  parasitic  infections  are 


181 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

major  causes  of  death,  factors  that  are  exacerbated  by  malnutri- 
tion and  starvation.  Recurring  drought  takes  a  heavy  toll  on  the 
animal  population,  although  it  is  difficult  to  determine  the  extent 
of  losses.  Practically  all  animals  are  range-fed.  During  the  rainy 
seasons,  water  and  grass  are  generally  plentiful,  but  with  the  onset 
of  the  dry  season,  forage  is  generally  insufficient  to  keep  animals 
nourished  and  able  to  resist  disease. 

Most  of  Ethiopia's  estimated  41  million  sheep  and  goats  are  raised 
by  small  farmers  who  used  them  as  a  major  source  of  meat  and 
cash  income.  About  three-quarters  of  the  total  sheep  flock  is  in  the 
highlands,  whereas  lowland  pastoralists  maintain  about  three- 
quarters  of  the  goat  herd.  Both  animals  have  high  sales  value  in 
urban  centers,  particularly  during  holidays  such  as  Easter  and  New 
Year's  Day. 

Most  of  the  estimated  7  million  equines  (horses,  mules,  and  don- 
keys) are  used  to  transport  produce  and  other  agricultural  goods. 
Camels  also  play  a  key  role  as  pack  animals  in  areas  below  1,500 
meters  in  elevation.  Additionally,  camels  provide  pastoralists  in 
those  areas  with  milk  and  meat. 

Poultry  farming  is  widely  practiced  in  Ethiopia;  almost  every 
farmstead  keeps  some  poultry  for  consumption  and  for  cash  sale. 
The  highest  concentration  of  poultry  is  in  Shewa,  in  central  Welo, 
and  in  northwestern  Tigray.  Individual  poultry  farms  supply  eggs 
and  meat  to  urban  dwellers.  By  1990  the  state  had  begun  to  de- 
velop large  poultry  farms,  mostly  around  Addis  Ababa,  to  supply 
hotels  and  government  institutions. 

Fishing 

Ethiopia's  many  lakes,  rivers,  and  reservoirs  and  its  approxi- 
mately 960  kilometers  of  Red  Sea  coastline  are  fertile  fishing 
grounds.  However,  fishing  contributed  less  than  1  percent  of  GDP 
in  1987.  The  ten-year  plan  in  1983/84  estimated  that  the  country 
had  the  potential  to  produce  more  than  92,000  tons  offish — 66,000 
tons  from  the  Red  Sea  and  the  remaining  26,000  tons  from  lakes 
and  rivers.  But  actual  production  in  1983/84  was  estimated  at  600 
to  1,200  tons. 

Fresh  fish  are  consumed  along  the  Red  Sea  coast,  in  Asmera, 
and  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Great  Rift  Valley  lakes.  Outside  these 
areas,  however,  the  domestic  market  for  fish  is  small.  Two  factors 
account  for  this  low  level  of  local  fish  consumption.  First,  fish  has 
not  been  integrated  into  the  diet  of  most  of  the  population.  Second, 
because  of  religious  influences  on  consumption  patterns,  the  de- 
mand for  fish  is  only  seasonal.  During  Lent,  for  example,  Chris- 
tians who  abstain  from  eating  meat,  milk,  and  eggs  consume  fish. 


182 


The  Economy 


There  was  considerable  commercial  fishing  activity  in  the  Red 
Sea  prior  to  1974,  chiefly  consisting  of  private  foreign  companies 
that  exported  most  of  their  catch  after  processing  the  fish  onshore. 
For  instance,  in  1970  private  companies  exported  about  9, 140  tons 
of  fish.  After  the  1974  revolution,  most  commercial  fishing  com- 
panies left  Ethiopia,  which  reduced  fish  exports. 

The  Mengistu  regime  encouraged  the  establishment  of  fishery 
associations  and  cooperatives  along  the  Red  Sea  coast  and  in  the 
Great  Rift  Valley  lakes  area.  In  1978  the  government  established 
the  Fish  Production  and  Marketing  Corporation  (FPMC)  to  help 
improve  the  Ethiopian  fish  industry.  The  following  year,  the  Minis- 
try of  Agriculture  created  the  Fisheries  Resources  Development 
Department  to  help  improve  fish  breeding,  control,  and  market- 
ing. The  FPMC  received  loans  from  the  Agricultural  and  Indus- 
trial Development  Bank  and  aid  from  the  European  Community 
(EC)  to  purchase  various  types  of  transportation  equipment  and 
to  establish  modern  shops  and  cold  storage. 

In  late  1990,  the  Red  Sea  Fishery  Resources  Development 
Project,  which  is  managed  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organi- 
zation of  the  United  Nations  (FAO),  received  funding  from  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)  and  the  Capi- 
tal Development  Fund  to  purchase  motor  boats,  fishing  nets,  and 
other  accessories  for  five  fishermen's  cooperatives  in  Aseb.  The 
government  hoped  this  equipment  would  help  increase  production 
and  eventually  enable  the  five  cooperatives  to  extract  450  tons  of 
fish  annually.  Nevertheless,  the  1988/89  fish  production  of  sixty 
tons  fell  by  more  than  half  in  1989/90  because  of  security  problems 
in  the  area. 

Forestry 

In  the  late  nineteenth  century,  about  30  percent  of  the  country 
was  covered  with  forest.  The  clearing  of  land  for  agricultural  use 
and  the  cutting  of  trees  for  fuel  gradually  changed  the  scene,  and 
today  forest  areas  have  dwindled  to  less  than  4  percent  of  Ethio- 
pia's total  land.  The  northern  parts  of  the  highlands  are  almost 
devoid  of  trees.  However,  about  4.5  million  hectares  of  dense  forest 
exist  in  the  southern  and  southwestern  sections  of  the  highlands. 
Some  of  these  include  coniferous  forests,  found  at  elevations  above 
1,600  meters,  but  a  majority  of  the  forestland  consists  primarily 
of  woodlands  found  in  drier  areas  of  the  highlands  and  in  the  drier 
areas  bordering  the  highlands. 

Lumber  from  the  coniferous  forests  is  important  to  the  con- 
struction industry.  The  broadleaf  evergreen  forests  furnish  timber 
that  is  used  in  construction  and  in  the  production  of  plywood.  The 


183 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

woodlands  are  a  major  source  of  firewood  and  charcoal.  Certain 
trees — boswellia  and  species  of  commiphora — are  of  special  eco- 
nomic significance.  Both  grow  in  the  arid  lowlands  and  produce 
gums  that  are  the  bases  for  frankincense  and  myrrh.  A  species  of 
acacia  found  in  several  parts  of  the  country  is  a  source  of  gum  arabic 
used  in  the  manufacture  of  adhesives,  pharmaceutical  products, 
and  confectionery.  The  eucalyptus,  an  exotic  tree  introduced  in 
the  late  nineteenth  century  and  grown  mainly  near  urban  areas, 
is  a  valuable  source  of  telephone  and  telegraph  poles,  tool  handles, 
furniture,  and  firewood.  It  is  also  a  major  source  of  the  material 
from  which  fiberboard  and  particleboard  are  made. 

Data  on  forestry's  contribution  to  the  economy  are  not  readily 
available,  largely  because  most  GDP  tables  aggregate  data  on  fore- 
stry, fishing,  and  hunting.  In  1980/81  forestry  accounted  for  2.5 
percent  of  GDP  at  constant  1960/61  factor  cost  and  5.4  percent 
of  the  share  attributable  to  the  agricultural  sector. 

Before  1974  about  half  of  the  forestland  was  privately  owned  or 
claimed,  and  roughly  half  was  held  by  the  government.  There  was 
little  government  control  of  forestry  operations  prior  to  the  revo- 
lution. The  1975  land  reform  nationalized  forestland  and  sawmills, 
which  existed  mostly  in  the  south.  The  government  controlled  har- 
vesting of  forestland,  and  in  some  cases  individuals  had  to  secure 
permits  from  local  peasant  associations  to  cut  trees.  But  this  mea- 
sure encouraged  illegal  logging  and  accelerated  the  destruction  of 
Ethiopia's  remaining  forests.  To  ensure  that  conservation  activity 
conformed  with  government  policy  and  directives  on  land  use, 
reforestation  programs  were  organized  through  the  Ministry  of 
Agriculture  or  district  offices  that  planed,  coordinated,  and  moni- 
tored all  work.  The  local  peasant  associations  lacked  decision- 
making authority. 

Reforestation  programs  resulted  in  the  planting  of  millions  of 
seedlings  in  community  forests  throughout  Ethiopia.  A  variety  of 
Non-Governmental  Organizations  (NGOs),  which  had  to  organize 
their  activities  through  the  local  peasant  association,  supplemented 
government  efforts  to  rehabilitate  Ethiopia's  forests.  However,  crit- 
ics maintain  that  both  systems  caused  communal  resources  to  be 
developed  at  the  expense  of  private  needs.  As  a  result,  reforesta- 
tion programs  did  not  perform  well.  Seedling  survival  rates  varied 
from  as  low  as  5  to  20  percent  in  some  areas  to  40  percent  in  others, 
largely  because  of  inadequate  care  and  premature  cutting  by 
peasants.  In  late  1990,  Addis  Ababa  was  in  the  process  of  launch- 
ing the  Ethiopian  Forestry  Action  Plan  (EFAP)  to  improve  fores- 
try conservation,  increase  public  participation  in  reforestation 
projects,  and  prevent  further  depletion  of  existing  forest  resources. 


184 


The  Economy 


It  remained  to  be  seen  whether  this  plan  would  improve  the  state 
of  Ethiopia's  forests. 

Government  Marketing  Operations 

Private  traders  and  the  Agricultural  Marketing  Corporation 
(AMC),  established  in  1976,  marketed  Ethiopia's  agricultural  out- 
put. The  AMC  was  a  government  agency  whose  objective  was  to 
influence  the  supply  and  price  of  crops.  It  purchased  grain  from 
peasant  associations  at  fixed  prices.  The  AMC  set  quotas  of  grain 
purchases  to  be  delivered  by  peasant  associations  and  cooperatives 
and  also  bought  from  private  wholesalers,  who  were  required  to 
sell  half  of  their  purchases  at  predetermined  prices.  State  farms  sold 
their  output  to  the  AMC.  Although  the  AMC  had  agents  in  all 
regions,  it  was  particularly  active  in  the  major  cereal-producing 
regions,  namely,  Gojam,  Shewa,  Arsi,  and  Gonder.  In  1981/82, 
out  of  the  AMC's  purchases  of  257,000  tons  of  grain,  Gojam  ac- 
counted for  32  percent  of  the  purchases,  and  Arsi,  Shewa,  and 
Gonder  accounted  for  23,  22,  and  10  percent,  respectively.  The 
government's  price  controls  and  the  AMC's  operations  had  led  to 
the  development  of  different  price  systems  at  various  levels.  For 
instance,  the  1984/85  official  procurement  price  for  100  kilograms 
of  teff  was  42  birr  at  the  farm  level  and  60  birr  when  the  AMC 
purchased  it  from  wholesalers.  But  the  same  quantity  of  teff  retailed 
at  81  birr  at  food  stores  belonging  to  the  urban  dwellers'  associa- 
tions (kebeles — see  Glossary)  in  Addis  Ababa  and  sold  for  as  much 
as  181  birr  in  the  open  market.  Such  wide  price  variations  created 
food  shortages  because  farmers  as  well  as  private  merchants  with- 
held crops  to  sell  on  the  black  market  at  higher  prices. 

Industry  and  Energy 
Manufacturing 

Prior  to  1957,  when  Ethiopia  initiated  a  series  of  five-year  de- 
velopment plans,  cottage  and  handicraft  industries  met  most  of  the 
population's  needs  for  manufactured  goods  such  as  clothes,  cer- 
amics, machine  tools,  and  leather  goods.  Various  factors — including 
the  lack  of  basic  infrastructure,  the  dearth  of  private  and  public 
investment,  and  the  lack  of  any  consistent  public  policy  aimed  at 
promoting  industrial  development — contributed  to  the  insignifi- 
cance of  manufacturing.  Throughout  much  of  the  1960s  and  early 
1970s,  manufacturing  activity  increased  as  the  government's  five- 
year  plans  diversified  the  economy  by  encouraging  agro-industrial 
activity  and  by  substituting  domestically  produced  goods  for  im- 
ported items.  Thus,  according  to  the  World  Bank,  manufacturing 


185 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

production  increased  at  an  annual  rate  of  6.1  percent  between  1965 
and  1973.  During  the  same  period,  agriculture  grew  at  an  annual 
2.1  percent  rate,  and  services  grew  at  an  annual  6.7  percent  rate. 
Despite  this  favorable  growth  rate,  manufacturing  in  1975  ac- 
counted for  less  than  5  percent  of  GDP  and  employed  only  about 
60,000  people.  Handicrafts,  such  as  weaving,  pottery,  blacksmith- 
ing,  leather  working,  and  jewelry  making,  along  with  other  small- 
scale  industries,  accounted  for  another  5  percent  of  GDP.  In  1984/85 
manufacturing  and  handicrafts  together  accounted  for  11.4  per- 
cent of  GDP. 

In  1975  the  PMAC  nationalized  more  than  100  industries  and 
took  partial  control  of  some  of  them.  The  main  characteristics  of 
the  manufacturing  sector  inherited  by  the  revolution  included  a 
predominance  of  foreign  ownership  and  foreign  managerial,  profes- 
sional, and  technical  staffing;  heavy  emphasis  on  light  industries; 
inward  orientation  and  relatively  high  tariffs;  capital-intensiveness; 
underutilized  capacity;  minimal  linkage  among  the  different  sec- 
tors; and  excessive  geographical  concentration  of  industries  in  Addis 
Ababa. 

After  nationalization,  there  was  an  exodus  of  foreigners  who  had 
owned  and  operated  the  industrial  enterprises.  The  war  in  Eritrea 
and  labor  strikes  and  demonstrations  also  closed  the  approximately 
30  percent  of  the  country's  plants  that  had  been  located  in  that 
region. 

The  economic  dislocation  that  followed  the  revolution  had  a  sig- 
nificant impact  on  the  manufacturing  sector.  Private-sector  capi- 
tal investment  ceased,  and  labor's  marginal  productivity  began  to 
decline.  In  performance  terms,  the  manufacturing  sector's  output 
after  1975  grew  haltingly.  Manufacturing  had  grown  at  an  aver- 
age annual  rate  of  6.1  percent  between  1965  and  1973.  A  period 
of  decline  from  1974/75  to  1977/78  and  an  average  annual  growth 
rate  of  18.9  percent  for  1978/79  and  1979/80  were  followed  by  a 
reduction  of  the  growth  rate  to  about  3 . 1  percent  per  annum  be- 
tween 1980/81  and  1984/85  and  3.8  percent  per  annum  from 
1985/86  to  1988/89. 

The  manufacturing  sector's  performance  paralleled  developments 
in  other  parts  of  the  country.  In  the  revolution's  early  days,  the 
dislocation  caused  by  nationalization,  the  flight  of  managers,  the 
wars  in  Eritrea  and  the  Ogaden,  and  local  strife  in  many  areas 
disrupted  production  and  hurt  productivity.  Zemecha  production 
campaigns,  which  focused  on  increasing  capacity  utilization,  charac- 
terized the  late  1970s.  As  a  result  of  these  campaigns,  Ethiopia 
achieved  growth  rates  of  27.3  and  10.5  percent,  respectively,  in 
1978/79  and  1979/80.  By  1985  capacity  utilization  estimates  of  many 


186 


Coffee  seedlings  at  Bulbulo  Nursery  near  Agaro,  in  Kefa 

Courtesy  Paul  Henze 

industries  ranged  between  70  and  100  percent,  and  many  plants 
operated  in  three  shifts.  These  figures  were  high  by  African 
standards. 

Manufacturing  productivity  began  to  decline  by  1980  because 
of  a  downturn  in  agricultural  production  and  a  shortage  of  foreign 
exchange  to  import  raw  materials.  Analysts  expected  the  manufac- 
turing sector's  productivity  to  decline  further  in  the  1990s  as  equip- 
ment aged  and  spare-parts  shortages  grew.  In  response  to  the 
downward  trend,  in  1987/88  the  government  planned  to  invest  342 
million  birr  in  industrial  enterprises  to  increase  production  capac- 
ity. In  1989  the  government  issued  Proclamation  No.  11,  which 
enunciated  policies  intended  to  attract  foreign  investment.  Finally, 
in  March  1990  Mengistu  announced  the  replacement  of  Ethiopia's 
socialist  economic  system  with  a  mixed  economy.  Among  the  pro- 
posed changes  were  that  private  investors  would  by  permitted  to 
participate  in  all  parts  of  the  economy  with  no  limit  on  the  amount 
of  capital  invested  (see  Role  of  Government,  this  ch.). 

Industrial  Development  Policy 

Between  1950  and  1960,  the  imperial  government  enacted  legis- 
lation and  implemented  a  new  policy  to  encourage  foreign  invest- 
ment. This  new  policy  provided  investor  benefits  in  the  form  of 


187 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

tax  exemptions,  remittances  of  foreign  exchange,  import  and  ex- 
port duty  relief,  tax  exemptions  on  dividends,  and  the  provision 
of  financing  through  the  Ethiopian  Investment  Corporation  and 
the  Development  Bank  of  Ethiopia.  In  addition,  the  government 
guaranteed  protection  to  industrial  enterprises  by  instituting  high 
tariffs  and  by  banning  the  importation  of  commodities  that  might 
adversely  affect  production  of  domestic  goods.  Protected  items  in- 
cluded sugar,  textiles,  furniture,  and  metal.  The  government  also 
participated  through  direct  investment  in  enterprises  that  had  high 
capital  costs,  such  as  oil  refineries  and  the  paper  and  pulp,  glass 
and  bottle,  tire,  and  cement  industries.  In  1963,  with  the  Second 
Five- Year  Plan  under  way,  the  government  enacted  Proclamation 
No.  51 .  The  proclamation's  objective  was  to  consolidate  other  in- 
vestment policies  enacted  up  to  that  period,  to  extend  benefits  to 
Ethiopian  investors  (previous  legislation  had  limited  the  benefits 
to  foreigners  only),  and  to  create  an  Investment  Committee  that 
would  oversee  investment  programs.  In  1966  Addis  Ababa  enacted 
Proclamation  No.  242,  which  elevated  the  Investment  Commit- 
tee's status  as  an  advisory  council  to  that  of  an  authorized  body 
empowered  to  make  independent  investment  decisions.  Thus,  by 
the  early  1970s,  Ethiopia's  industrialization  policy  included  a  range 
of  fiscal  incentives,  direct  government  investment,  and  equity  par- 
ticipation in  private  enterprises. 

The  government's  policy  attracted  considerable  foreign  invest- 
ment to  the  industrial  sector.  For  instance,  in  1971/72  the  share 
of  foreign  capital  in  manufacturing  industries  amounted  to  41  per- 
cent of  the  total  paid-up  capital.  Many  foreign  enterprises  oper- 
ated as  private  limited  companies,  usually  as  a  branch  or  subsidiary 
of  multinational  corporations.  The  Dutch  had  a  major  investment 
(close  to  80  percent)  in  the  sugar  industry.  Italian  and  Japanese 
investors  participated  in  textiles;  and  Greeks  maintained  an  interest 
in  shoes  and  beverages.  Italian  investors  also  worked  in  building, 
construction,  and  agricultural  industries. 

In  1975  the  PMAC  nationalized  most  industries  and  subsequently 
reorganized  them  into  state-owned  corporations.  On  February  7, 
1975,  the  government  released  a  document  outlining  socialist  Ethio- 
pia's economic  policy.  The  policy  identified  three  manufacturing 
areas  slated  for  state  involvement:  basic  industries  that  produced 
goods  serving  other  industries  and  that  had  the  capacity  to  create 
linkages  in  the  economy;  industries  that  produced  essential  goods 
for  the  general  population;  and  industries  that  made  drugs,  medi- 
cine, tobacco,  and  beverages.  The  policy  also  grouped  areas  of  the 
public  and  private  sectors  into  activities  reserved  for  the  state, 


188 


The  Economy 


activities  where  state  and  private  capital  could  operate  jointly,  and 
activities  left  to  the  private  sector. 

The  1975  nationalization  of  major  industries  scared  off  foreign 
private  investment.  Private  direct  investment,  according  to  the  Na- 
tional Bank  of  Ethiopia,  declined  from  65  million  birr  in  1974  to 
12  million  birr  in  1977.  As  compensation  negotiations  between  the 
Ethiopian  government  and  foreign  nationals  dragged  on,  foreign 
investment  virtually  ceased.  The  United  States  Congress  invoked 
the  Hickenlooper  Amendment,  which  had  the  effect  of  prohibit- 
ing the  use  of  United  States  funds  for  development  purposes  until 
Ethiopia  had  settled  compensation  issues  with  United  States  na- 
tionals. During  1982  and  1983,  the  Mengistu  regime  settled  claims 
made  by  Italian,  Dutch,  Japanese,  and  British  nationals.  Negoti- 
ation to  settle  compensation  claims  by  United  States  nationals  con- 
tinued until  1985,  when  Ethiopia  agreed  to  pay  about  US$7  million 
in  installments  to  compensate  United  States  companies. 

Issued  in  1983,  the  PMAC's  Proclamation  No.  235  (the  Joint 
Venture  Proclamation)  signaled  Ethiopia's  renewed  interest  in  at- 
tracting foreign  capital.  The  proclamation  offered  incentives  such 
as  a  five-year  period  of  income  tax  relief  for  new  projects,  import 
and  export  duty  relief,  tariff  protection,  and  repatriation  of  profits 
and  capital.  It  limited  foreign  holdings  to  a  maximum  of  49  per- 
cent and  the  duration  of  any  joint  venture  to  twenty-five  years. 
Although  the  proclamation  protected  investors'  interests  from  ex- 
propriation, the  government  reserved  the  right  to  purchase  all  shares 
in  a  joint  venture  "for  reasons  of  national  interest."  The  procla- 
mation failed  to  attract  foreign  investment,  largely  because  foreign 
businesses  were  hesitant  to  invest  in  a  country  whose  government 
recently  had  nationalized  foreign  industries  without  a  level  of  com- 
pensation these  businesses  considered  satisfactory. 

In  1989  the  government  issued  Special  Decree  No.  11,  a  revi- 
sion of  the  1983  proclamation.  The  decree  allowed  majority  for- 
eign ownership  in  many  sectors,  except  in  those  related  to  public 
utilities,  banking  and  finance,  trade,  transportation,  and  commu- 
nications, where  joint  ventures  were  not  allowed.  The  decree  also 
removed  all  restrictions  on  profit  repatriation  and  attempted  to  pro- 
vide more  extensive  legal  protection  of  investors  than  had  the  1983 
proclamation. 

President  Mengistu's  March  1990  speech  to  the  Central  Com- 
mittee of  the  WPE  was  a  turning  point  in  Ethiopia's  recent  eco- 
nomic history.  Acknowledging  that  socialism  had  failed,  Mengistu 
proposed  implementing  a  mixed  economy.  Under  the  new  system, 
the  private  sector  would  be  able  to  participate  in  all  parts  of  the 
economy  with  no  limit  on  capital  investment  (Ethiopia  had  a 


189 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

US$250,000  ceiling  on  private  investment);  developers  would  be 
allowed  to  build  houses,  apartments,  and  office  buildings  for  rent 
or  sale;  and  commercial  enterprises  would  be  permitted  to  develop 
industries,  hotels,  and  a  range  of  other  enterprises  on  government- 
owned  land  to  be  leased  on  a  concessionary  basis.  Additionally, 
state-owned  industries  and  businesses  would  be  required  to  oper- 
ate on  a  profit  basis,  with  those  continuing  to  lose  money  to  be 
sold  or  closed.  Farmers  would  receive  legal  ownership  of  land  they 
tilled  and  the  right  to  sell  their  produce  in  a  free  market.  Whereas 
there  were  many  areas  yet  to  be  addressed,  such  as  privatization 
of  state  enterprises  and  compensation  for  citizens  whose  land  and 
property  had  been  confiscated,  these  proposals  generated  optimism 
among  some  economists  about  Ethiopia's  economic  future. 
However,  some  observers  pointed  out  that  Mengistu's  proposals 
only  amounted  to  recognition  of  existing  practices  in  the  under- 
ground economy. 

Energy  Resources 

Ethiopia  is  one  of  the  few  African  countries  with  the  potential 
to  produce  hydroelectric  and  geothermal  power.  As  of  mid- 1991, 
however,  no  comprehensive  assessment  of  this  potential  was  avail- 
able, although  some  estimates  indicated  that  the  total  potential  could 
be  as  much  as  143  billion  kilowatts.  The  main  sources  of  this  poten- 
tial were  thought  to  be  the  Abay  (Blue  Nile;  79.9  billion  kilowatts), 
the  Shebele  (21.6  billion  kilowatts),  and  the  Omo  (16.1  billion 
kilowatts).  The  remaining  25.9  billion  kilowatts  would  come  from 
rivers  such  as  the  Tekeze,  Awash,  Baro,  Genale,  and  Mereb. 

Ethiopia's  first  large  hydroelectric  generating  facilities  were  con- 
structed in  the  Awash  River  basin.  The  three  plants — Awash  I 
(Koka)  with  54,000  kilowatts  capacity,  Awash  II  with  32,000 
kilowatts  capacity,  and  Awash  III  with  32,000  kilowatts  capacity — 
were  finished  between  1960  and  1972.  In  1974  the  Fincha  River 
facility  in  central  Welega  opened  with  a  generating  capacity  of 
84,000  kilowatts.  Other  major  power- generating  facilities  included 
those  at  Bahir  Dar  (7,680  kilowatts)  and  Aba  Samuel  (6,560 
kilowatts).  The  total  installed  capacity  of  thermal  generating  units 
amounted  to  210,084  kilowatts  in  1985/86. 

Electric  power  production  in  1985/86  totaled  998.7  million 
kilowatt-hours,  83  percent  of  which  was  produced  by  hydroelec- 
tric power  installations.  Thermal  generating  units  produced  the 
remaining  17  percent.  The  thermal  generating  units  in  the  public 
utility  system,  many  of  which  were  comparatively  small,  had  a 
generating  capacity  of  95,635  kilowatts  in  1985.  Major  units  were 


190 


The  Economy 


located  close  to  Asmera  (31,900  kilowatts),  Dire  Dawa  (4,500 
kilowatts),  Addis  Ababa  (3,100  kilowatts),  and  Aseb  (3,100 
kilowatts).  In  1985/86  various  business  enterprises  and  local  com- 
munities owned  electrical  generators  of  unspecified  capacity. 

The  regional  electrical  distribution  system  included  an  intercon- 
nected system  and  a  self-contained  system.  By  1988  most  power 
generating  sources,  including  all  major  hydroelectric  power  plants, 
were  interconnected  in  a  power  grid.  The  interconnected  system 
served  more  than  100  towns.  Power  from  the  Awash,  Fincha,  and 
Aba  Samuel  stations  ran  the  central  system,  the  largest  compo- 
nent of  the  interconnected  system.  The  Bahir  Dar  interconnected 
system,  which  served  parts  of  Gojam  and  Gonder,  and  the  Eritrean 
Region  Electricity  Supply  Agency  (ERESA)  were  two  of  the  other 
major  systems.  A  majority  of  the  self-contained  systems  got  their 
power  from  thermal  power  plants,  with  the  power  often  being  used 
for  domestic  purposes  and  to  run  small  mills. 

The  Ethiopian  Electric  Light  and  Power  Authority  (ELPA),  a 
government  corporation,  operated  most  of  the  country's  power 
systems.  Prior  to  the  revolution,  ELPA  incorporated  more  than 
forty  electric  power  stations  and  generated  about  80  percent  of  the 
nation's  total  electrical  output.  Two  Italian  firms,  Societa  Elet- 
trica  dell' Africa  Orientale  and  Compagnia  Nazionale  Impresse 
Elettriche,  chiefly  serving  Eritrea,  produced  another  16.5  percent 
of  the  country's  electrical  energy.  Independent  stations  generated 
the  remaining  3  to  4  percent.  In  1975  the  government  national- 
ized all  private  utility  companies  and  placed  them  under  ELPA. 
Since  then,  utility  services  have  been  reserved  exclusively  to  the 
state.  In  1987  ELPA  served  about  170  towns  and  produced  about 
92  percent  of  the  national  electrical  output.  Mass  organizations, 
sugar  factories,  and  the  Aseb  refinery  administered  the  remaining 
8  percent. 

In  1985/86,  of  the  total  847.7  million  kilowatt-hours  of  power 
sold  by  ELPA,  59  percent  was  for  industrial  use,  29  percent  for 
domestic  use,  10  percent  for  commercial  use,  and  the  remaining 
2  percent  for  other  uses  such  as  street  lighting  and  agriculture.  By 
1987  about  9  percent  of  the  total  population  (4.3  million  people) 
were  using  electricity. 

Ethiopia's  second  commercial  energy  resource  is  oil.  Despite 
reports  of  natural  gas  reserves  and  traces  of  petroleum,  Ethiopia 
still  depends  on  imported  crude  oil,  which  accounted  for  an  aver- 
age of  about  12  percent  of  the  value  of  imports  during  the  period 
1982/83  to  1987/88.  Exploration  for  petroleum  and  natural  gas 
in  the  Ogaden  and  the  Red  Sea  basin  has  been  going  on  for 
many  years.  In  May  1988,  International  Petroleum,  a  subsidiary 


191 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


of  Canada's  International  Petroleum  Corporation  (IPC),  signed 
a  production  sharing  and  exploration  license  for  the  Denakil  block, 
which  covers  34,000  square  kilometers  on  and  off  shore  along  the 
Red  Sea  coast.  The  IPC  also  has  conducted  geothermal  studies  and 
undertaken  mapping  projects.  In  late  1990,  the  government  an- 
nounced that  geologists  had  discovered  oil  in  western  Ilubabor,  with 
an  expected  deposit  ranging  from  100  million  to  120  million  tons. 

Since  the  early  1970s,  there  has  been  exploration  and  develop- 
ment of  geothermal  resources  in  the  Great  Rift  Valley.  In  early 
1972,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)  con- 
ducted preliminary  explorations  in  the  area  and  detected  what  ap- 
peared to  be  one  of  the  world's  largest  potential  sources  of 
geothermal  power.  In  mid- 1979  the  EEC,  assisted  by  the  UNDP, 
provided  a  grant  to  aid  exploration  in  the  valley's  lake  region.  In 
1984  Ethiopia  reported  the  discovery  of  a  promising  geothermal 
source  in  the  Lake  Langano  area.  However,  no  indication  has  been 
provided  as  to  when  production  will  start.  The  primary  energy 
sources  for  most  Ethiopians  are  charcoal,  animal  manure,  and  fire- 
wood. Some  estimates  indicate  that  as  much  as  96  percent  of  the 
country's  total  energy  consumption  is  based  on  these  traditional 
sources. 

Mining 

Ethiopia's  minerals  industry  has  been  only  of  minor  importance, 
contributing  an  average  of  less  than  0.2  percent  of  GDP  at  con- 
stant factor  cost  between  1984/85  and  1988/89.  Although  it  had 
reported  the  existence  of  a  wide  range  of  minerals  throughout  the 
country,  the  government  had  authorized  little  exploration.  Thus, 
there  are  no  reliable  estimates  of  the  extent  of  mineral  resources. 
However,  there  has  been  some  small-scale  mining  for  minerals  such 
as  gold,  platinum,  salt,  limestone,  and  clay.  Gold  has  been  mined 
at  Adola  (in  Sidamo)  for  many  years.  In  1981/82  output  at  this 
site  in  southern  Ethiopia  averaged  around  500  kilograms  per 
annum.  However,  by  1985/86  production  had  dropped  to  293  kilo- 
grams. In  1987  the  government  reported  the  discovery  of  large  gold 
deposits  in  Lege  Dimbi,  also  in  Sidamo.  Observers  believed  that 
prospectors  mined  an  annual  average  of  7 . 5  to  8  kilograms  of  plati- 
num in  the  Yubdo  area  in  Welega. 

Stretching  inland  from  the  Red  Sea  coast,  the  Denakil  Depres- 
sion has  large  salt  deposits.  Production  averaged  some  20,000  tons 
annually.  Other  major  salt  sources  are  found  at  Aseb  and  around 
Mitsiwa,  also  on  the  Red  Sea.  According  to  some  estimates,  Ethio- 
pia produces  about  300,000  tons  of  marine  and  mined  salt  annually. 


192 


The  Economy 


However,  this  supply  fails  to  satisfy  domestic  needs  because  the 
government  exports  salt  to  improve  its  hard-currency  reserves. 

A  large  potash  deposit,  estimated  at  140  to  150  million  tons,  is 
located  in  Tigray's  Dallol  area.  Production  has  averaged  less  than 
1  million  tons  per  year. 

Large  iron  ore  deposits  are  scattered  throughout  the  country. 
During  the  Italian  colonial  period,  a  few  companies  started  iron- 
mining  operations  in  Eritrea  but  abandoned  them  after  the  Italian 
occupation  ended  in  1941.  In  the  late  1980s,  prospectors  identi- 
fied iron  ore  deposits  estimated  at  20  million  tons  in  the  Agametta 
region  (near  Mitsiwa)  and  another  160,00  tons  of  iron  ore  in  Welega 
and  Bale. 

Copper,  lead,  and  zinc  deposits  are  found  near  Debarwa,  thirty- 
five  kilometers  southwest  of  Asmera.  In  1973  the  Ethio-Nippon 
Mining  Share  Company  started  mining  copper  in  Debarwa. 
However,  the  Eritrean  war  forced  an  end  to  operations  two  years 
later. 

Limestone  is  excavated  near  Mitsiwa,  Dire  Dawa,  and  Addis 
Ababa.  The  limestone  is  used  chiefly  at  the  cement  works  operat- 
ing in  those  cities. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

A  lack  of  resources,  coupled  with  military  and  political  instabil- 
ity, has  retarded  the  growth  of  a  transportation  infrastructure  in 
Ethiopia,  even  though  development  of  such  a  system  traditionally 
has  been  a  government  objective.  The  Haile  Selassie  regime  allo- 
cated an  average  of  700  million  birr  of  the  planned  budget  for  the 
development  of  transportation  during  the  three  five-year  develop- 
ment plans  (1957-74).  In  1975,  when  the  PMAC  articulated  its 
socialist  economic  policy,  the  government  assumed  control  of  all 
transportation  and  communication  facilities.  The  military  govern- 
ment continued  to  expand  and  improve  the  transportation  infra- 
structure by  using  its  own  funds  and  by  securing  loans  from 
international  organizations  such  as  the  World  Bank.  In  1991  the 
transportation  system  included  13,000  kilometers  of  all-weather 
roads,  a  781 -kilometer  railroad  connecting  Addis  Ababa  and 
Djibouti,  twenty-five  airports,  and  another  twenty  airfields  (see  fig. 
10). 

Roads 

Road  transport  was  the  means  of  movement  for  about  93  per- 
cent of  freight  and  95  percent  of  all  passengers.  In  1991,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  13,000  kilometers  of  all-weather  roads,  of  which  about 
4,000  were  asphalted  and  8,900  were  all-weather  gravel  roads,  there 


193 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

were  4,900  kilometers  of  rural  dirt  roads,  making  a  total  of  nearly 
18,000  kilometers  of  all  types  of  roads.  Centered  in  Addis  Ababa, 
the  road  system  radiated  in  all  directions  in  a  spoke-like  pattern. 
However,  substantial  parts  of  the  country,  notably  in  the  west, 
southwest,  and  southeast,  still  lacked  all-weather  connections  to 
this  network.  Only  about  12  percent  of  the  population  had  ready 
access  to  roads.  Most  roads  in  the  national  network  were  concen- 
trated in  the  central,  eastern,  and  northern  highlands. 

During  the  1936-41  Italian  occupation,  road  building  increased. 
Mobility  helped  Italy  consolidate  its  rule  over  Ethiopia,  initiate  de- 
velopment projects,  and  pacify  unstable  areas.  By  1941  there  were 
about  7,000  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which  about  half  were  surfaced 
with  asphalt.  After  liberation,  road  construction  and  maintenance 
stagnated  because  of  a  lack  of  funds,  equipment,  and  expertise  until 
1951,  when  the  government  established  the  Imperial  Highway 
Authority.  With  the  help  of  World  Bank  funds  and  with  technical 
assistance  from  the  United  States  Bureau  of  Public  Roads,  the  de- 
velopment of  Ethiopia's  highway  system  continued. 

The  Imperial  Highway  Authority  played  a  major  role  in  the  con- 
struction of  roads  until  the  revolution.  The  Derg  restructured  the 
Imperial  Highway  Authority  as  the  Ethiopian  Road  Authority  and 
the  Rural  Roads  Task  Force.  The  government  created  the  latter 
to  develop  rural  roads  outside  the  main  system  and  to  extend  feeder 
roads  within  the  main  system.  The  World  Bank,  which  had  financed 
four  previous  highway  programs,  funded  this  project.  In  addition, 
the  African  Development  Bank  and  the  EC  provided  assistance  for 
road  construction  and  maintenance.  Despite  these  efforts,  Ethio- 
pia's road  network  remained  primitive  and  quite  limited,  even  by 
African  standards.  This  shortcoming  had  tragic  consequences  dur- 
ing the  1984-85  famine,  when  the  lack  of  good  roads  contributed 
to  Ethiopia's  inability  to  distribute  food  to  famine  victims.  As  a 
result,  many  thousands  of  Ethiopians  perished.  In  1991  comple- 
tion of  an  adequate  nationwide  highway  system  continued  to  be 
one  of  Ethiopia's  major  development  challenges. 

Railroads 

Ethiopia's  two  original  rail  systems  were  the  Franco-Ethiopian 
Railroad  (FER)  and  the  Akordat-Mitsiwa  railroad.  A  French  com- 
pany, the  Compagnie  Imperiale  des  Chemins  de  Fers  Ethiopiens, 
built  the  FER  by  authority  of  Emperor  Menelik  II.  Construction 
began  in  1897  at  the  port  city  of  Djibouti,  and  the  final  link  reached 
Addis  Ababa  in  1917.  In  1959  the  Ethiopian  government  acquired 
a  50  percent  holding  in  the  line. 


194 


jAk( 


Gonder 

Lake 
'tana 


q 


t 

Nekemte 
Metud 
Tepi 


Jima 


v 


Figure  10.  Transportation  Syster 
196 


The  Economy 


By  the  early  1960s,  however,  Ethiopia  had  taken  steps  to  reduce 
its  dependence  on  the  FER,  which  could  be  disrupted  by  natural 
disaster  or  an  attack  by  antigovernment  forces.  Nevertheless,  Ethio- 
pia suffered  economically  when  sabotage  associated  with  the 
1977-78  Ogaden  War  temporarily  closed  the  FER.  As  an  alter- 
nate to  the  FER,  the  government  expanded  the  port  of  Aseb  and 
constructed  a  highway  between  Addis  Ababa  and  Aseb.  The  open- 
ing of  the  Addis  Ababa-Aseb  highway  prompted  the  FER  to  im- 
prove the  railroad  to  remain  competitive.  In  particular,  the  FER 
expanded  investment  in  diesel  locomotion,  new  rolling  stock,  and 
track.  Despite  these  efforts,  competition  between  the  rail  and  road 
systems  remained  intense.  For  example,  in  1986/87  the  FER  moved 
335,400  tons  of  freight  compared  with  a  high  of  375,000  tons  in 
the  mid-1960s.  One  of  the  major  reasons  for  the  decline  was  at- 
tacks on  the  rail  line  by  rebel  groups. 

An  Italian  company  completed  construction  of  the  Akordat- 
Mitsiwa  line  in  1922.  The  Ethiopian  government  acquired  owner- 
ship of  the  line  after  World  War  II.  In  the  mid-1960s,  the  volume 
of  freight  and  passenger  traffic  stagnated.  By  the  early  1970s,  the 
railroad's  equipment  was  old,  and  the  line  was  in  need  of  track 
improvements.  In  the  mid-1970s,  operation  ceased  to  be  viable  be- 
cause of  the  threat  posed  by  Eritrean  guerrillas  and  the  realization 
that  existing  road  facilities  could  handle  the  railroad's  traffic.  For 
these  reasons,  the  government  closed  the  line  in  1976,  and  it  was 
partially  destroyed  in  later  fighting. 

Ports 

Ethiopia  had  two  major  ports,  Aseb  and  Mitsiwa,  on  the  Red 
Sea  coast.  These  ports  accounted  for  about  93  percent  of  Ethio- 
pia's export-import  trade.  The  port  of  Djibouti,  which  operated 
as  a  free  port,  handled  the  remaining  7  percent  of  Ethiopia's  sea- 
borne freight.  All  three  ports  handled  deep-sea  vessels,  possessed 
some  mechanized  cargo-handling  equipment,  and  offered  covered 
and  open  storage  facilities. 

The  port  of  Aseb  was  connected  by  road  with  Addis  Ababa.  De- 
veloped by  the  imperial  government  in  the  late  1950s,  Aseb, 
together  with  Djibouti,  principally  served  Ethiopia's  central  and 
southern  areas.  In  1988  Aseb  handled  about  71  percent  of  the 
export-import  trade.  In  EFY  1986/87,  more  than  2.8  million  tons 
of  cargo  transited  Aseb,  of  which  about  66  percent  consisted  of  im- 
ports, including  about  792,000  tons  of  crude  oil  for  Aseb's  refinery. 
Although  the  port  of  Aseb  was  not  threatened,  antigovernment 
forces  repeatedly  attacked  the  Addis  Ababa-Aseb  highway. 

Mitsiwa  was  connected  to  Asmera  by  road  and  by  rail.  Until 
the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF)  captured  Mitsiwa 


197 


The  Economy 


By  the  early  1960s,  however,  Ethiopia  had  taken  steps  to  reduce 
its  dependence  on  the  FER,  which  could  be  disrupted  by  natural 
disaster  or  an  attack  by  antigovernment  forces.  Nevertheless,  Ethio- 
pia suffered  economically  when  sabotage  associated  with  the 
1977-78  Ogaden  War  temporarily  closed  the  FER.  As  an  alter- 
nate to  the  FER,  the  government  expanded  the  port  of  Aseb  and 
constructed  a  highway  between  Addis  Ababa  and  Aseb.  The  open- 
ing of  the  Addis  Ababa-Aseb  highway  prompted  the  FER  to  im- 
prove the  railroad  to  remain  competitive.  In  particular,  the  FER 
expanded  investment  in  diesel  locomotion,  new  rolling  stock,  and 
track.  Despite  these  efforts,  competition  between  the  rail  and  road 
systems  remained  intense.  For  example,  in  1986/87  the  FER  moved 
335,400  tons  of  freight  compared  with  a  high  of  375,000  tons  in 
the  mid-1960s.  One  of  the  major  reasons  for  the  decline  was  at- 
tacks on  the  rail  line  by  rebel  groups. 

An  Italian  company  completed  construction  of  the  Akordat- 
Mitsiwa  line  in  1922.  The  Ethiopian  government  acquired  owner- 
ship of  the  line  after  World  War  II.  In  the  mid-1960s,  the  volume 
of  freight  and  passenger  traffic  stagnated.  By  the  early  1970s,  the 
railroad's  equipment  was  old,  and  the  line  was  in  need  of  track 
improvements.  In  the  mid-1970s,  operation  ceased  to  be  viable  be- 
cause of  the  threat  posed  by  Eritrean  guerrillas  and  the  realization 
that  existing  road  facilities  could  handle  the  railroad's  traffic.  For 
these  reasons,  the  government  closed  the  line  in  1976,  and  it  was 
partially  destroyed  in  later  fighting. 

Ports 

Ethiopia  had  two  major  ports,  Aseb  and  Mitsiwa,  on  the  Red 
Sea  coast.  These  ports  accounted  for  about  93  percent  of  Ethio- 
pia's export-import  trade.  The  port  of  Djibouti,  which  operated 
as  a  free  port,  handled  the  remaining  7  percent  of  Ethiopia's  sea- 
borne freight.  All  three  ports  handled  deep-sea  vessels,  possessed 
some  mechanized  cargo-handling  equipment,  and  offered  covered 
and  open  storage  facilities. 

The  port  of  Aseb  was  connected  by  road  with  Addis  Ababa.  De- 
veloped by  the  imperial  government  in  the  late  1950s,  Aseb, 
together  with  Djibouti,  principally  served  Ethiopia's  central  and 
southern  areas.  In  1988  Aseb  handled  about  71  percent  of  the 
export-import  trade.  In  EFY  1986/87,  more  than  2.8  million  tons 
of  cargo  transited  Aseb,  of  which  about  66  percent  consisted  of  im- 
ports, including  about  792,000  tons  of  crude  oil  for  Aseb's  refinery. 
Although  the  port  of  Aseb  was  not  threatened,  antigovernment 
forces  repeatedly  attacked  the  Addis  Ababa-Aseb  highway. 

Mitsiwa  was  connected  to  Asmera  by  road  and  by  rail.  Until 
the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF)  captured  Mitsiwa 


197 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

in  early  1990,  the  port  handled  traffic  bound  mainly  for  the  north- 
ern part  of  the  country.  Also,  the  Ethiopian  navy  had  stationed 
most  of  its  ships  at  Mitsiwa.  In  EFY  1986/87,  Mitsiwa  handled 
about  470,000  tons  of  cargo,  of  which  imports  made  up  about  14 
percent. 

Developments  during  the  1986-87  drought,  when  food  aid  do- 
nated to  Ethiopia  rotted  in  storage  facilities  and  ships  waited  for 
weeks  to  unload  their  cargo,  demonstrated  the  inadequacy  of  the 
port  of  Aseb.  In  1988  the  government  announced  plans  to  build 
a  new  terminal  at  Aseb  with  a  US$1 1  million  loan  from  the  Euro- 
pean Investment  Bank.  This  multipurpose  terminal  for  general 
cargo,  container  ships,  and  roll-on/roll-off  vessels  was  to  consist 
of  a  6,400-square-meter  transit  shed.  The  government  expected 
the  first  berth  to  be  completed  in  1991  and  the  rest  of  the  work 
to  be  done  by  1992. 

In  addition  to  the  major  ports,  there  is  a  limited  inland  water 
transportation  system.  The  Baro  River  is  navigable  and  is  used 
to  transport  goods  to  Sudan.  Traders  also  transport  local  goods 
on  Lake  Tana  in  the  northwest  and  Lake  Abaya  and  Lake  Chamo 
in  the  south.  In  EFY  1986/87,  about  2,000  tons  of  cargo  transited 
local  waterways.  A  total  of  98  percent  of  this  activity  was  on  Lake 
Tana. 

Air  Transport 

Distance,  terrain,  and  an  underdeveloped  road  system  made  air 
transport  an  important  part  of  Ethiopia's  transportation  network. 
Ethiopian  Airlines  (EAL),  a  government-owned  corporation  that 
began  operations  in  1946,  provided  domestic  and  international  air 
service.  The  airline  served  some  forty-five  cities  and  towns  in  Ethio- 
pia and  operated  international  flights  that,  in  early  1991,  included 
service  to  twenty-one  cities  in  eighteen  African  countries;  to  western 
European  destinations  such  as  London,  Paris,  Frankfurt,  Rome, 
and  Athens;  and  to  India  and  China.  Many  international  and  sev- 
eral regional  airlines  also  provided  regular  service  between  Ethio- 
pia and  other  countries. 

International  airports  were  located  at  Addis  Ababa,  Asmera,  and 
Dire  Dawa.  Addis  Ababa's  Bole  International  Airport  served  more 
than  195,000  passengers  in  EFY  1986/87,  while  the  Asmera  and 
Dire  Dawa  airports  handled  108,000  and  81,000  passengers,  respec- 
tively, during  the  same  period.  Bole  International  Airport  and  the 
airport  at  Asmera  were  capable  of  handling  larger  aircraft,  such 
as  the  Boeing  747. 

EAL  had  an  excellent  reputation  because  of  its  safety  record. 
It  was  also  one  of  the  few  profitable  African  airlines.  EAL  also  had 


198 


The  Economy 


provided  training  and  maintenance  services  to  more  than  a  dozen 
other  African  and  Middle  Eastern  airlines.  In  late  1986,  EAL  as- 
sembled the  first  agro-aircraft  to  support  the  nation's  agricultural 
development  and  the  agro-aviational  needs  of  other  African  coun- 
tries. New  facilities  included  an  expanded  catering  network,  a  gas 
production  plant,  and  base  maintenance  shops  for  ground  equip- 
ment. EAL  also  had  an  ongoing  program  to  automate  airline  ac- 
tivities such  as  maintenance  and  engineering,  ticket  accounting, 
and  crew  and  corporate  data  management. 

Although  it  refrained  from  interfering  in  EAL  operations,  the 
Mengistu  government  opposed  the  airline's  plans  to  expand  into 
areas  such  as  hotel  construction  and  management,  tourism,  and 
catering,  which  the  government  reserved  for  state  corporations, 
which  operated  at  a  loss.  In  June  1989,  EAL  announced  plans  to 
spend  US$1.2  billion  on  new  aircraft;  in  early  1991,  EAL  received 
Western  credits  to  acquire  five  new  Boeing  757s  and  to  refinance 
two  Boeing  767s. 

Telecommunications 

Ethiopia's  telecommunications  system  was  rudimentary.  Broad- 
cast facilities  were  concentrated  in  a  few  cities,  and  telephones  were 
limited  primarily  to  government  offices  and  businesses  in  Addis 
Ababa  and  regional  capitals.  Long-distance  and  international  com- 
munications to  two  neighboring  countries  went  via  two  radio-relay 
links:  a  modern  960-channel  system  that  went  south  from  Addis 
Ababa  to  Nairobi,  and  an  older,  twenty-four-channel  system  that 
paralleled  the  railroad  line  from  Addis  Ababa  to  Djibouti.  Other 
parts  of  the  country  were  linked  by  old  and  unreliable  open-wire 
lines.  International  service,  other  than  to  Kenya  and  Djibouti, 
passed  through  the  Atlantic  Ocean  satellite  of  the  International 
Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat)  via  a  ground 
station  just  north  of  the  capital.  This  ground  station  was  capable 
of  providing  over  100  simultaneous  high-quality  telephone,  data, 
and  television  links  with  the  rest  of  the  world. 

In  1989  Ethiopia  counted  only  109,000  telephones,  or  two  sets 
per  1,000  inhabitants,  one  of  the  lowest  per  capita  figures  in  the 
world.  Only  84  percent  of  service  was  automatic;  the  rest  still  used 
outdated  manual  systems.  Over  two-thirds  of  the  telephones  were 
in  Addis  Ababa  or  Asmera;  the  remainder  were  scattered  through- 
out a  few  of  the  larger  towns  or  regional  capitals.  Most  users  were 
either  government  offices  or  businesses.  International  direct  dial 
was  available  to  some  users  in  Addis  Ababa.  Local  or  long-distance 
calling  was  difficult,  however,  with  frequent  busy  signals  for  un- 
completed calls. 


199 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Broadcast  service  was  also  limited.  In  mid- 1991  the  country 
counted  four  medium-wave  AM  radio  stations,  two  in  Addis  Ababa 
and  one  each  in  Asmera  and  Harer.  A  shortwave  transmitter  south 
of  the  capital  broadcast  "Voice  of  Ethiopia"  programming  in  En- 
glish, French,  Amharic,  Arabic,  and  Somali  to  surrounding  coun- 
tries. Ten  cities  had  low-power  television  stations.  In  mid- 1991  the 
nation  had  an  estimated  9  million  radio  receivers  and  100,000  tele- 
vision sets. 

Foreign  Trade 

Both  the  imperial  and  the  Marxist  governments  tried  to  improve 
Ethiopia's  balance  of  trade,  the  former  by  encouraging  exports  and 
the  latter  by  curtailing  imports.  However,  Ethiopia's  foreign  trade 
balance  has  basically  been  in  deficit  since  1953,  with  the  exception 
of  1975,  when  a  combination  of  unusually  large  receipts  from  sales 
of  oilseeds  and  pulses  resulted  in  a  surplus.  In  general,  foreign  trade 
has  grown  faster  than  the  national  economy,  particularly  in  the 
early  1970s,  but  it  has  accounted  for  only  a  small  percentage  of 
the  national  economy.  In  EFY  1972/73,  exports  and  imports  ac- 
counted for  13  and  12  percent  of  GDP,  respectively.  By  EFY 
1988/89,  exports  had  declined  to  8  percent  of  GDP,  and  imports 
had  jumped  to  21  percent.  Virtually  all  machinery  and  equipment 
had  to  be  imported,  as  well  as  intermediate  goods  for  agriculture 
and  industry,  including  fertilizer  and  fuel.  Increased  cereal  ship- 
ments accounted  for  the  growth  in  imports.  In  the  1980s,  Ethio- 
pia faced  several  famines  and  droughts.  Consequently,  the  country, 
which  had  been  virtually  self-sufficient  in  food  supplies  in  the  1970s, 
became  a  net  importer  of  food  worth  as  much  as  243  million  birr 
annually  during  the  period  EFY  1983/84  to  EFY  1987/88.  The  mili- 
tary government  failed  to  correct  the  country's  historical  trade 
deficit,  despite  efforts  to  regulate  exports  and  imports.  Conse- 
quently, during  the  1980s  the  trade  picture  worsened  as  imports 
grew  rapidly  and  foreign  aid  slowed. 

Exports 

Ethiopia's  exports  in  EFY  1988/89  were  primarily  agricultural 
products  (see  table  14,  Appendix).  The  only  significant  nonagricul- 
tural  exports  were  petroleum  products  such  as  heating  oil,  which 
had  no  use  in  Ethiopia,  from  the  Aseb  refinery. 

The  value  of  exports  increased  during  the  1980s,  and  by  EFY 
1988/89  exports  had  almost  twice  the  value  they  had  in  1973. 
However,  the  composition  of  exports  had  remained  essentially  the 
same,  although  the  relative  share  of  the  various  agricultural  ex- 
ports had  changed.  Coffee,  the  major  export,  still  averaged  about 


200 


The  Economy 


63  percent  of  the  value  of  exports  during  the  five  years  ending  in 
EFY  1988/89.  The  relative  share  of  oilseeds  and  pulses,  however, 
had  changed  dramatically.  Pulses  and  oilseeds,  which  accounted 
for  about  15  percent  and  19  percent,  respectively,  of  the  total  value 
of  exports  in  EFY  1974/75,  dropped  to  1.9  and  1.4  percent,  respec- 
tively, of  the  total  value  of  exports  in  EFY  1988/89.  Droughts,  fam- 
ines, the  peasants'  preference  for  cereals  and  other  staples,  and  the 
rising  cost  of  producing  pulses  and  oilseeds  accounted  for  the  decline 
in  the  export  of  these  two  products.  Exports  of  livestock  and  livestock 
products  averaged  18  percent  of  the  value  of  exports  for  the  five 
years  ending  in  EFY  1988/89,  which  was  slightly  higher  than  the 
prerevolution  share  of  16  percent. 

After  the  1974  revolution,  exports'  relative  share  of  GDP 
declined,  largely  because  domestic  production  grew  more  slowly 
than  total  demand.  This  could  be  attributed  to  the  agricultural  crisis 
associated  with  the  country's  recurring  droughts  and  famines  and 
the  dislocation  of  the  farm  economy  resulting  from  the  revolu- 
tion. Total  domestic  production,  measured  by  GDP,  grew  at  an 
average  annual  rate  of  0.9  percent  per  year  during  the  1980- 
87  period  while  exports  declined  at  an  average  annual  rate  of 
0.6  percent.  During  the  same  period,  the  population  grew  at  an 
average  2.4  percent  annual  rate.  Consequently,  Ethiopia's  export 
share  of  8  percent  of  GDP  in  EFY  1988/89  was  one  of  the  world's 
lowest. 

The  direction  of  Ethiopia's  post- 1974  exports  remained  essen- 
tially the  same  as  in  the  prerevolution  period,  despite  the  govern- 
ment's change  of  policy  and  realignment  with  the  Soviet  Union 
and  Eastern  Europe.  About  79  percent  of  Ethiopia's  exports  went 
to  Western  countries,  primarily  the  United  States,  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany),  and  Japan.  Ethiopia's  ex- 
port trade  with  the  Soviet  Union,  one  of  its  major  allies,  was  less 
than  4  percent  in  the  five  years  ending  in  1987;  prior  to  1974,  the 
Soviet  Union  had  accounted  for  less  than  1  percent  of  Ethiopia's 
imports.  Beginning  in  1979,  Addis  Ababa  sought  to  encourage  ex- 
ports to  the  Soviet  Union  and  other  socialist  countries  by  encourag- 
ing barter  and  countertrade.  Ethiopia  used  this  technique  to  market 
products  such  as  spices,  natural  gums,  some  pulses,  frozen  meats, 
and  handicraft  items,  which  are  not  reliable  hard-currency  earn- 
ers. In  exchange,  Ethiopia  usually  received  consumer  goods,  in- 
dustrial machinery,  or  construction  machinery.  Although  reliable 
figures  on  the  volume  of  barter  and  countertrade  were  unavail- 
able, it  appeared  unlikely  that  the  figure  exceeded  US$50  to  US$55 
million  in  any  year. 


201 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 
Imports 

Ethiopia's  major  category  of  import  items  was  consumer  goods, 
which  accounted  for  about  one-third  of  the  value  of  imports  dur- 
ing the  period  EFY  1984/85  to  EFY  1988/89.  Capital  goods,  primar- 
ily machinery  and  transportation  equipment,  accounted  for  another 
39  percent,  with  fuel,  semifinished  goods,  and  durable  consumer 
goods  accounting  for  the  other  third  of  the  value  of  imports.  A  major 
structural  change  in  Ethiopia's  imports  was  the  relative  increase 
in  the  importation  of  food  items.  During  the  three  years  ending 
in  EFY  1986/87,  cereals  and  other  food  items  accounted  for  22  per- 
cent of  the  total  value  of  imports;  in  1974  cereal  and  food  items 
had  accounted  for  only  4.6  percent.  As  a  result,  the  share  of  non- 
durable consumer  items  jumped  from  16.8  percent  in  1974  to  34.2 
percent  in  1985.  It  dropped  to  24.9  percent  in  EFY  1986/87. 

Imports  provided  the  capital  and  intermediate  goods  upon  which 
industry  depended.  Imports  also  satisfied  most  of  the  country's  de- 
mand for  nonfood  consumer  goods,  such  as  automobiles,  radios, 
televisions,  pharmaceuticals,  and  textiles.  In  the  five  years  ending 
in  EFY  1986/87,  the  relative  share  of  the  value  of  transportation 
and  transportation  equipment  increased,  reflecting  the  country's 
increasing  demand  for  trucks  and  other  heavy  road  vehicles  needed 
to  transport  food  to  areas  affected  by  drought  and  famine. 

Most  of  Ethiopia's  imports  came  from  Western  countries.  Italy, 
the  United  States,  West  Germany,  and  Japan,  in  order  of  impor- 
tance, accounted  for  45  percent  of  total  imports  in  1987.  The  Soviet 
Union  accounted  for  16  percent  of  the  value  of  imports  in  1987. 
By  contrast,  Ethiopia's  exports  to  the  Soviet  Union  amounted  to 
only  5  percent  of  total  exports  in  1987.  The  relatively  high  propor- 
tion of  imports  from  the  Soviet  Union  was  largely  because  of  oil; 
in  1987  Ethiopia  received  virtually  all  its  crude  petroleum  from 
the  Soviet  Union.  In  1987  the  United  States  remained  Ethiopia's 
major  trading  partner  despite  cool  relationships  between  the  two 
countries;  the  United  States  ranked  first  in  buying  Ethiopia's  ex- 
ports and  third  in  satisfying  Ethiopia's  import  needs. 

Balance  of  Payments  and  Foreign  Assistance 

Ethiopia  has  experienced  chronic  balance  of  payments  difficul- 
ties since  1953,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  years.  The  major  fac- 
tor in  the  deteriorating  balance  of  payments  was  the  worsening 
situation  of  merchandise  trade.  The  trade  deficit  that  existed  dur- 
ing the  imperial  years  continued  to  grow  after  the  revolution,  despite 
the  introduction  of  import  controls.  Since  EFY  1981/82,  the  value 
of  merchandise  imports  has  been  roughly  double  the  value  of  ex- 
ports (see  table  15,  Appendix). 


202 


The  Economy 


Since  1974  there  has  been  low  growth  in  the  overall  volume  and 
value  of  exports.  Coffee,  Ethiopia's  principal  export,  accounted 
for  about  60  percent  of  total  merchandise  exports,  although  this 
level  fluctuated  in  the  1980s.  Coffee  exports  reached  an  all-time 
high  of  98,000  tons  in  EFY  1983/84  but  dropped  to  73,000  tons 
in  EFY  1987/88.  Similarly,  coffee  receipts  declined  as  the  world 
price  of  coffee  plummeted.  The  share  of  noncoffee  exports  has  not 
shown  any  significant  change.  Exports  of  oilseeds  and  pulses  have 
declined  since  imperial  times.  Industrial  exports  consistently  con- 
tributed only  about  8  percent  of  the  total  value  of  merchandise  ex- 
ports. In  contrast  to  the  slow  increase  in  the  volume  and  value  of 
exports,  imports  grew  by  nearly  7  percent  during  the  decade  end- 
ing in  EFY  1988/89.  This  trend  reflected  Ethiopia's  growing  de- 
pendence on  imports  and  the  decline  of  foreign-financed  investment 
and  domestic  savings.  A  high  growth  rate  in  import  prices  accom- 
panied the  high  growth  rate  in  imports.  The  result  of  these  deteri- 
orating terms  of  trade  was  a  severe  trade  balance  problem. 

To  finance  its  trade  deficit,  the  government  has  depended  on 
foreign  aid.  These  import  finance  funds  were  in  addition  to  the 
large  volume  of  development  project  aid  and  commodity  assistance 
the  international  community  has  provided  to  Ethiopia  since  the 
end  of  World  War  II.  The  volume  of  official  development  assistance 
jumped  from  US$134  million  in  1975  to  US$212  million  in  1980 
and  to  US$635  million  in  1987.  Most  external  financial  assistance 
came  from  Western  nations.  By  the  late  1980s,  Ethiopia  was  the 
principal  African  recipient  of  concessionary  funding  and  the  larg- 
est recipient  of  EC  aid.  In  1988  Ethiopia  received  US$141  million 
from  the  EC  under  the  provisions  of  the  Lome  Convention  (see 
Glossary).  An  additional  US$230  million  was  later  allocated  under 
the  Lome  Convention.  Bilateral  assistance,  mainly  from  European 
countries,  also  increased  in  the  late  1980s.  World  Bank  lending 
for  various  projects  covering  agriculture,  education,  housing,  road 
construction,  and  power  development  reached  US$400  to  US$500 
million  by  1988.  Despite  this  aid,  however,  Ethiopia  still  received 
the  smallest  amount  of  aid  per  capita  of  all  developing  countries. 
The  1987  per  capita  aid  level  was  US$14,  compared  with  a  US$23 
group  average  for  all  developing  countries. 

Reliance  on  foreign  aid  has  created  economic  problems  for  Addis 
Ababa.  In  1987  Ethiopia's  total  external  debt  amounted  to  US$2.6 
billion,  of  which  US$2.4  billion  was  long-term  debt  (excluding  mil- 
itary debt).  Addis  Ababa  owed  more  than  one-third  of  the  total 
to  multinational  agencies  and  the  remainder  to  bilateral  cred- 
itors. Economists  estimated  the  EFY  1986/87  cost  of  servicing  this 


203 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

long-term  debt  to  be  28.4  percent  of  export  earnings  and  projected 
the  figure  to  rise  to  40  percent  of  export  earnings  by  1990. 

Economic  Prospects 

Under  the  imperial  regime,  economic  progress  was  sluggish.  The 
country's  agricultural  and  industrial  performance  was  poor.  Ef- 
forts by  the  emperor  to  bring  Ethiopia  into  the  twentieth  century 
enjoyed  some  success  in  limited  areas,  such  as  the  emergence  of 
Ethiopian  Airlines;  however,  on  the  whole,  imperial  Ethiopia's  eco- 
nomic policies  must  be  judged  a  failure.  As  a  result,  many  Ethio- 
pians supported  the  1974  revolution  in  hopes  that  it  would  improve 
their  standard  of  living. 

Between  1974  and  1975,  Ethiopia's  Marxist  government  car- 
ried out  a  wide  range  of  political,  economic,  and  social  reforms. 
Unfortunately,  these  reforms  promised  more  than  they  delivered. 
Gradually,  the  country's  economy  deteriorated.  By  1990-91  Ethio- 
pia's economy  was  in  a  steep  decline,  from  which  recovery  will  be 
difficult.  During  the  last  year  of  the  military  government,  GDP 
declined  by  5  percent  in  real  terms,  and  inflation  soared.  Defense 
expenditures  accounted  for  40  to  60  percent  of  the  national  bud- 
get. Merchandise  exports  fell  to  their  lowest  level  since  1974,  and 
a  collapse  in  international  coffee  prices  (during  the  1979-89  pe- 
riod, coffee  accounted  for  an  average  of  55  percent  of  total  exports) 
reduced  foreign-exchange  reserves  to  an  all-time  low.  More  im- 
portant, insurgencies  had  spread  to  new  areas  of  central  and  north- 
ern Ethiopia;  recurring  cycles  of  drought  and  famine  again 
threatened  millions  of  Ethiopians;  and  ill-conceived  Marxist  eco- 
nomic policies  further  eroded  the  country's  economic  performance. 
As  a  result  of  these  and  numerous  other  problems,  the  World  Bank 
classified  Ethiopia  as  the  world's  poorest  country.  Mengistu's  early 
1990  adoption  of  a  new  economic  policy  failed  to  reinvigorate  Ethio- 
pia's ailing  economy.  Without  massive  and  genuine  political,  eco- 
nomic, and  social  reforms,  it  appeared  unlikely  that  Ethiopia  could 
harness  its  resources  and  improve  the  lives  of  its  citizens  anytime 
soon. 

j     *    ,  -     $  J  ; 

Much  of  the  literature  about  Ethiopia's  economy  examines  land 
tenure  and  land  reform.  Some  of  the  more  useful  works  about  the 
imperial  era  include  John  Markakis's  Ethiopia:  Anatomy  of  a  Tradi- 
tional Polity  and  John  M.  Cohen  and  Dov  Weintraub's  Land  and 
Peasants  in  Imperial  Ethiopia.  A  considerable  amount  of  literature 
deals  with  land  reform  in  the  post- 1974  period.  Essential  studies 


204 


The  Economy 


include  Dessalegn  Rahmato's  Agrarian  Reform  in  Ethiopia,  Haile 
Yesus  Abegaz's  The  Organization  of  State  Farms  in  Ethiopia  after  the 
Land  Reform  of  1975,  Keith  Griffin  and  Roger  Hay's  ''Problems 
of  Agricultural  Development  in  Socialist  Ethiopia,"  and  Ajit  Kumar 
Ghose's  "Transforming  Feudal  Agriculture."  Kidane  Mengisteab's 
Ethiopia:  Failure  of  Land  Reform  and  Agricultural  Crisis  analyzes  the 
relationship  between  inadequate  land  reform  policies  and  recur- 
ring famines  during  the  imperial  and  revolutionary  periods.  Ma- 
rina Ottaway's  The  Political  Economy  of  Ethiopia  includes  chapters 
that  offer  a  critical  analysis  of  Ethiopia's  economic  crisis. 

For  general  statistical  materials,  the  best  sources  are  the  annual 
Ethiopia:  Statistical  Abstract  published  by  the  Ethiopian  government's 
Central  Statistical  Authority  and  the  Annual  Report  of  the  National 
Bank  of  Ethiopia.  The  most  up-to-date  data  are  available  in  the 
bank's  Quarterly  Bulletin.  The  Country  Reports  published  quarterly 
and  the  Country  Profiles  published  annually  by  the  Economist  In- 
telligence Unit  also  contain  a  great  deal  of  useful  economic  in- 
formation. (For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see 
Bibliography.) 


205 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


Main  gate  of  Jubilee  Palace,  Addis  Ababa 


THE  FINAL  CONGRESS  of  Ethiopia's  Provisional  Military  Ad- 
ministrative Council  marked  a  watershed  in  modern  Ethiopian  his- 
tory. The  congress,  held  in  the  capital  city  of  Addis  Ababa,  was 
the  prelude  to  the  inauguration,  in  1987,  of  the  People's  Democratic 
Republic  of  Ethiopia,  which  would  be  guided  by  a  vanguard 
Marxist-Leninist  party  and  regime.  At  least  nominally,  thirteen 
years  of  rule  by  the  military  regime  were  at  an  end.  When  the  Provi- 
sional Military  Administrative  Council  had  assumed  power  in  1974, 
there  were  no  clear  signs  that  it  was  committed  to  a  Marxist-Leninist 
model  of  social  transformation;  neither  was  there  any  indication 
that  it  was  sincere  about  its  pledge  to  return  Ethiopia  to  civilian 
rule.  In  fact,  within  months  of  seizing  power,  the  new  regime  began 
systematically  to  buttress  the  already  preeminent  role  of  the  mili- 
tary as  the  vanguard  of  the  revolution. 

Until  its  collapse  in  1974,  the  Ethiopian  imperial  state  had  at- 
tempted to  construct  an  absolutist  but  modernizing  autocracy,  a 
regime  committed  to  preserving  tradition  while  carefully  guiding 
society  into  the  twentieth  century.  Emperor  Haile  Selassie  I,  who 
ruled  the  country  from  1930  to  1974,  portrayed  himself  as  a  strong 
but  compassionate  leader,  a  model  for  all  African  statesmen.  How- 
ever, at  a  very  fundamental  level,  the  imperial  state  constructed 
by  Haile  Selassie  was  tenuously  held  together  by  a  top-heavy,  secular- 
ized bureaucracy  and  an  imperial  myth.  Once  the  myth  that  the 
emperor  was  unassailable  had  been  broken,  the  new  regime  began 
the  process  of  reconstituting  state  institutions.  This  process  was 
slow  but  methodical,  and  by  1989  the  fruits  of  this  institutional 
transformation  were  definitely  in  evidence. 

The  tasks  of  social,  political,  and  economic  reconstruction  fac- 
ing the  new  regime  in  1974  were  formidable.  To  meet  these 
challenges,  the  regime  attempted  to  fashion  a  new  ideological  foun- 
dation for  society.  The  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council 
favored  a  Marxist-Leninist  development  model  because  of  the  or- 
ganizational power  it  promised.  The  approach  taken  was  statist 
and  based  on  the  principles  of  scientific  socialism  as  interpreted 
in  the  Soviet  Union  from  the  time  of  Joseph  Stalin  to  that  of  Leonid 
Brezhnev.  At  an  operational  level,  this  choice  required  the  state's 
reorganization  and  reconstitution,  the  redistribution  of  wealth  and 
property,  the  creation  of  a  capacity  for  central  planning,  the  pur- 
suit of  a  state  socialist  development  strategy  under  the  guidance 


209 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


of  a  vanguard  party  of  "revolutionary  democrats, ' '  and  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  constitutionally  based  "people's  republic." 

Ethiopia's  turn  toward  Marxism-Leninism  first  became  evident 
in  early  1976  with  the  enunciation  of  the  Program  for  the  National 
Democratic  Revolution.  This  document,  which  reflected  the  views 
of  those  regime  members  who  espoused  Marxism- Leninism  long 
before  they  seized  power,  committed  the  regime  to  a  noncapitalist 
approach  to  development  based  on  the  principles  of  scientific  so- 
cialism. For  the  next  decade,  the  ruling  group  used  ideology  and 
new  socialist  institutions  to  implement  and  legitimize  its  policies. 
Even  when  particular  economic  strategies  were  chosen,  the  regime 
seemed  to  be  motivated  by  political  objectives  rather  than  driven 
by  ideological  zeal.  Chief  among  the  objectives  were  establishing 
the  regime's  political  control  and  securing  popular  legitimacy. 

By  1989  it  was  evident  that  the  government  had  failed  to  con- 
solidate its  rule.  Natural  catastrophes  such  as  drought  and  famine 
had  taken  a  heavy  toll.  Furthermore,  the  regime  not  only  was  un- 
able to  control  the  general  population,  but  also  dozens  of  top- 
ranking  officials  had  defected  to  the  West,  where  they  bitterly 
denounced  the  government.  With  military  morale  at  its  lowest  point 
since  1974,  disaffected  senior  officers  attempted  a  coup  d'etat  in 
May  1989.  In  addition,  numerous  opposition  groups  waged  mili- 
tary campaigns  against  the  government.  Most  notable  among  these 
were  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  and  the  Tigray  Peo- 
ple's Liberation  Front,  the  latter  operating  with  several  other  anti- 
government  groups  in  an  umbrella  organization  known  as  the 
Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Democratic  Front.  By  early  1991, 
these  groups  controlled  large  stretches  of  territory  in  north-central 
Ethiopia  and  were  poised  to  seize  even  more. 

Moreover,  by  this  time  the  Soviet  Union,  in  the  spirit  of  Mik- 
hail Gorbachev's  glasnost  (openness),  had  abandoned  its  uncritical 
support  of  Ethiopia's  revolution.  The  winds  of  democracy  that  were 
sweeping  across  much  of  the  communist  world  also  meant  that 
Ethiopia  could  no  longer  rely  on  its  Soviet  and  East  European  al- 
lies for  military  and  economic  assistance.  These  developments  forced 
the  government  to  reconsider  its  efforts  to  deal  with  its  opponents 
through  military  rather  than  political  means.  However,  by  early 
1991  the  government  had  failed  to  reach  a  negotiated  settlement 
with  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  and  the  Ethiopian  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Democratic  Front.  Thereafter,  both  groups 
launched  renewed  attacks  that  by  late  May  brought  the  insurgents 
to  power.  The  leaders  of  both  insurgencies  disavowed  the  state  so- 
cialism of  the  military  government  and  pledged  themselves  to 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


democratic  principles  and  free-market  economics.  Eritrea  was  also 
expected  to  become  an  independent  country. 

The  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia 
Toward  Party  Formation 

As  early  as  1976,  the  Soviet  Union  had  encouraged  Addis 
Ababa's  new  leaders  to  create  a  civilian-based  vanguard  party.  The 
Ethiopian  head  of  state  and  leader  of  the  Provisional  Military  Ad- 
ministrative Council  (PMAC;  also  known  as  the  Derg — see  Glos- 
sary), Lieutenant  Colonel  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam,  initially  had 
resisted,  arguing  that  the  revolution  had  taken  place  without  such 
a  party  and  that  there  was  no  need  for  haste  in  creating  one. 
However,  in  the  late  1970s,  in  the  wake  of  the  regime's  near  col- 
lapse under  the  weight  of  armed  opposition  to  its  rule,  Mengistu 
believed  the  creation  of  a  vanguard  party  would  accomplish  the 
regime's  goals  of  gaining  political  control  over  the  general  popu- 
lation and  of  securing  popular  legitimacy.  Therefore,  in  Decem- 
ber 1979  Mengistu  announced  the  creation  of  the  Commission  to 
Organize  the  Party  of  the  Workers  of  Ethiopia  (COPWE). 

The  establishment  of  mass  organizations,  such  as  the  All-Ethiopia 
Trade  Union,  the  All-Ethiopia  Urban  Dwellers'  Association,  and 
the  All-Ethiopia  Peasants'  Association,  preceded  the  creation  of 
COPWE.  The  Revolutionary  Ethiopia  Youth  Association,  the 
Revolutionary  Ethiopia  Women's  Association,  the  Working  Peo- 
ple's Control  Committees,  and  various  professional  associations 
were  instituted  after  COPWE's  establishment.  The  idea  behind 
the  proliferation  of  mass  organizations  was  to  create  a  party  that 
would  neutralize  "narrow  nationalism,"  or  sectarianism,  and  that 
would  be  based  on  broad,  yet  clearly  defined,  class  interests.  In 
response  to  the  fiasco  that  resulted  from  efforts  to  create  a  union 
of  Marxist- Leninist  organizations  in  the  mid-1970s,  the  Derg  de- 
termined that  the  party  should  be  one  of  individuals,  not  of  politi- 
cal organizations.  To  the  extent  that  individual  interests  were 
represented,  this  was  to  be  done  through  mass  organizations. 

Mass  organizations  not  only  represented  their  membership  at 
party  congresses  but  also  guarded  their  interests  on  an  everyday 
basis.  The  mass  organizations  had  educational  and  developmental 
roles.  The  basic  units  of  political  consciousness  and  involvement, 
then,  would  be  party  cells  at  work  sites  or  in  mass  organizations. 
Individuals  could  belong  to  more  than  one  mass  organization  at 
a  time. 

In  determining  COPWE  membership,  the  regime  tried  to  give 
the  impression  that  a  broadly  representative  organization  had  been 


211 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

created.  Between  1,200  and  1,500  delegates  from  all  regions  and 
all  walks  of  life  attended  the  three  congresses.  However,  the  diversity 
of  the  delegates  was  questionable.  For  example,  at  COPWE's  first 
congress,  in  1980,  more  than  a  third  of  the  delegates  were  mem- 
bers of  the  armed  forces  or  residents  of  the  Addis  Ababa  area. 

The  first  congress  unveiled  the  membership  of  the  COPWE  Cen- 
tral Committee  and  the  Secretariat.  The  Secretariat,  which  was 
supervised  by  the  top  Derg  leadership,  consisted  mainly  of  civilian 
ideologues.  The  Secretariat  was  responsible  for  the  day-to-day  ad- 
ministration of  Central  Committee  business.  Regional  branches 
under  the  direction  of  military  officers  in  each  region  complemented 
COPWE's  central  leadership.  However,  the  positions  of  chief 
regional  administrator  and  COPWE  representative  were  divided 
in  late  1981,  with  the  party  posts  assuming  greater  importance. 
Within  a  year  of  the  first  congress,  it  was  clear  that  COPWE  was 
being  transformed  into  a  party  that  could  be  used  by  the  state  as 
an  instrument  of  control. 

By(  mid- 1983  the  COPWE  bureaucracy  stretched  from  the  na- 
tional center  to  the  fourteen  regions  and  thence  to  the  subregional 
level,  to  peasant  associations  and  urban  dwellers'  associations 
(kebeles — see  Glossary),  and  on  down  to  the  party  cell  level.  At  that 
time,  there  were  an  estimated  6,500  COPWE  party  cells,  with  a 
total  membership  estimated  at  30,000  to  50,000. 

Party  membership,  however,  was  not  open  to  all.  The  main 
criterion  for  acceptability  was  loyalty  to  the  regime  rather  than  ideo- 
logical sophistication.  Although  Mengistu  had  stressed  the  need 
for  ideological  purity  and  for  only  a  few  "committed  communists," 
concern  over  ideological  purity  appeared  to  be  a  facade  for  the 
Derg's  efforts  to  neutralize  or  preempt  its  opponents  and  thus  es- 
tablish the  party's  exclusive  role  in  defining  the  normative  order. 

Once  COPWE  was  in  place,  the  Derg  projected  itself  into  the 
most  important  sectors  of  the  central  bureaucracy.  Derg  members 
served  as  the  administrators  of  twelve  of  the  fourteen  regions.  An 
additional  thirty  Derg  members  took  up  influential  posts  in 
subregional  administration  and  in  central  ministries.  After  1978 
the  presence  of  military  personnel  in  the  bureaucracy  expanded 
so  greatly  that  not  only  members  of  the  Derg  but  also  other  trusted 
military  men  served  in  such  roles. 

The  organizational  model  followed  by  COPWE  was  Soviet  in- 
spired. Even  though  there  was  tension  between  self-styled  com- 
munists and  nationalists  in  the  Derg,  there  was  an  understanding 
that  their  collective  position  as  a  ruling  group  was  unassailable. 
This  could  be  seen  in  the  distribution  of  power  within  COPWE. 
The  most  important  policy-making  bodies  in  COPWE  were  the 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


Executive  Committee,  whose  seven  members  all  came  from  the 
Derg,  and  the  Central  Committee,  which  consisted  of  ninety-three 
full  members  and  thirty  alternates.  Of  the  123  members  of  the  Cen- 
tral Committee,  seventy-nine  were  military  men  or  police  officers. 
There  were  at  least  twenty  Derg  members  in  this  group,  and  others 
held  important  regional  posts  in  the  bureaucracy  as  well  as  in 
COPWE.  At  the  time  of  COPWE's  demise,  military  personnel 
represented  more  than  50  percent  of  the  congress  that  established 
the  vanguard  party. 

The  Vanguard  Party 

The  government  announced  the  formation  of  the  Workers'  Party 
of  Ethiopia  (WPE)  on  September  12,  1984,  the  tenth  anniversary 
of  the  revolution.  Regional  and  local  COPWE  branches  were  trans- 
formed into  WPE  instruments,  and  it  was  announced  that  party 
congresses  would  be  held  at  five-year  intervals.  These  congresses 
would  be  responsible  for  electing  the  party  Central  Committee, 
a  body  of  183  members  as  of  1987.  The  Central  Committee  nor- 
mally met  twice  a  year.  Among  its  duties  was  the  election  of  the 
WPE's  Political  Bureau,  the  general  secretary,  and  members  of 
the  WPE  Secretariat.  However,  the  Central  Committee  was  too 
large  and  diverse  to  serve  as  an  effective  decision-making  body. 
Although  in  the  late  1980s  more  than  half  of  the  Central  Commit- 
tee's full  members  were  former  police  or  former  military  person- 
nel, the  Central  Committee  also  included  peasants,  workers,  trade 
union  members,  and  representatives  of  various  mass  organizations. 

The  WPE  Political  Bureau  had  eleven  full  members  and  six  alter- 
nate members.  The  Derg's  Standing  Committee  and  the  COPWE 
Executive  Committee  had  comprised  the  Derg's  seven  most  influen- 
tial members.  The  additional  four  members  appointed  to  the  WPE 
were  two  civilian  ideologues  and  two  career  technocrats,  who  in 
the  years  leading  up  to  the  WPE's  inauguration  had  become  respon- 
sible for  the  day-to-day  direction  of  party  matters  and  who  evi- 
dently had  Mengistu's  confidence. 

The  WPE's  Political  Bureau  was  the  country's  most  important 
decision-making  body.  Although  the  Political  Bureau's  decisions 
were  always  made  in  secret,  there  was  evidence  that  General  Secre- 
tary Mengistu's  wishes  generally  prevailed,  no  matter  what  the  op- 
position. One  observer  suggested  that  whatever  power  or  influence 
other  Political  Bureau  members  exerted  was  owed  more  to  their 
closeness  to  Mengistu  than  to  any  formal  positions  they  might  oc- 
cupy or  to  their  personal  qualities.  The  Political  Bureau,  there- 
fore, was  little  more  than  a  forum  for  the  articulation  of  policies 
already  determined  personally  by  Mengistu. 


213 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  paramount  position  of  the  WPE  was  enshrined  in  the  1987 
constitution,  which  stated  that  the  party  should  be  "the  formula- 
tor  of  the  country's  development  process  and  the  leading  force  of 
the  state  and  in  society."  Indeed,  the  WPE  had  become  more  im- 
portant than  the  central  government  in  determining  the  direction 
of  national  and  local  policies.  Local  party  leaders  sometimes  pos- 
sessed a  great  deal  of  latitude  in  determining  approaches  to  policy 
in  their  regions  as  long  as  their  decisions  did  not  conflict  with  ob- 
jectives determined  in  Addis  Ababa.  At  the  national  level,  highly 
politicized  party  representatives  often  exercised  greater  influence 
than  the  Western-trained  bureaucrats  in  government  ministries. 
It  appeared  that  the  government  bureaucracy  had  to  follow  the  lead 
of  the  party  and  often  found  its  policies  and  procedures  overrid- 
den by  political  decisions. 

At  the  national  level,  individuals  from  the  military,  the  govern- 
ment bureaucracy,  and  those  ethnic  groups  (especially  Amhara  and 
Tigray)  that  had  historically  endorsed  the  notion  of  a  unitary, 
"Greater  Ethiopia"  dominated  the  WPE.  However,  below  the  level 
of  the  regional  first  secretary  of  the  WPE,  the  military  and  ethnic 
origins  of  party  leadership  became  less  important. 

The  1987  Constitution 

The  primary  task  facing  the  WPE  following  its  formation  in  1984 
was  to  devise  the  new  national  constitution  that  would  inaugurate 
the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  (PDRE).  In  March 
1986,  a  343-member  Constitutional  Commission  was  formed  to 
draft  a  new  constitution  based  on  the  principles  of  scientific  social- 
ism. Eventually,  the  122  full  and  alternate  members  of  the  WPE 
Central  Committee  who  had  been  appointed  to  its  membership 
dominated  the  commission. 

The  Constitutional  Commission  had  its  origins  in  the  Institute 
for  the  Study  of  Ethiopian  Nationalities,  which  the  Derg  had  es- 
tablished in  March  1983  to  find  solutions  to  problems  resulting  from 
Ethiopia's  extreme  ethnic  diversity.  The  institute  was  staffed  mostly 
by  academics  from  Addis  Ababa  University,  who  continued  to  serve 
as  advisers  to  the  Constitutional  Commission.  The  commission's 
diverse  membership  included  religious  leaders,  artists,  writers,  doc- 
tors, academics,  athletes,  workers,  and  former  nobility.  There  was 
also  an  attempt  by  those  who  chose  appointees  to  the  commission 
to  make  sure  that  all  major  ethnic  nationalities  had  representation 
in  the  body. 

For  about  six  months,  the  commission  debated  the  details  of  the 
new  constitution.  In  June  1986,  it  issued  a  120-article  draft  docu- 
ment. The  government  printed  and  distributed  1  million  copies 


214 


City  Hall,  Addis  Ababa 
Courtesy  Thomas  Ofcansky 


to  kebeles  and  peasant  associations  throughout  the  country.  During 
the  next  two  months,  the  draft  was  discussed  at  about  25,000  loca- 
tions. The  regime  used  this  method  of  discussion  to  legitimize  the 
constitution-making  process  and  to  test  the  mood  of  the  populace. 
In  some  cases,  people  attended  constitutional  discussion  sessions 
only  after  pressure  from  local  WPE  cadres,  but  in  other  cases  at- 
tendance was  voluntary.  Where  popular  interest  was  apparent,  it 
centered  on  issues  such  as  taxes,  the  role  of  religion,  marriage,  the 
organization  of  elections,  and  citizenship  rights  and  obligations. 
By  far  the  most  controversial  draft  provision  was  the  one  that  out- 
lawed polygamy,  which  caused  a  furor  among  Muslims.  Few  ques- 
tions were  raised  about  the  document's  failure  to  address  the 
nationalities  problem  and  the  right  to  self-determination.  Accord- 
ing to  government  officials,  the  citizenry  submitted  more  than 
500,000  suggested  revisions.  In  August  the  commission  reconvened 
to  consider  proposed  amendments.  In  all,  the  commission  accepted 
ninety-five  amendments  to  the  original  draft.  Most  of  the  changes, 
however,  were  cosmetic. 

The  referendum  on  the  constitution  was  held  on  February  1, 
1987,  and  Mengistu  announced  the  results  three  weeks  later.  He  re- 
ported that  96  percent  of  the  1 4  million  people  eligible  to  participate 
(adults  eighteen  years  of  age  and  older)  actually  voted.  Eighty-one 


215 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

percent  of  the  electorate  endorsed  the  constitution,  while  18  per- 
cent opposed  it  (1  percent  of  the  ballots  were  invalid).  Although 
this  was  the  first  election  in  Ethiopia's  history  based  on  universal 
suffrage,  the  presence  of  communist  cadres  throughout  the  coun- 
try ensured  that  the  constitution  would  be  adopted.  In  Tigray  and 
Eritrea,  however,  the  regime  held  referenda  only  in  urban  centers 
because  much  of  these  territories  was  controlled  by  the  Tigray  Peo- 
ple's Liberation  Front  and  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front, 
respectively  (see  Political  Dynamics,  this  ch.).  In  other  places,  such 
as  parts  of  Welo  and  Gonder  regions,  the  vote  took  place  amid 
heightened  security  measures. 

The  constitution  officially  took  effect  on  February  22,  1987,  when 
the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  was  proclaimed, 
although  it  was  not  until  September  that  the  new  government  was 
fully  in  place  and  the  PMAC  formally  abolished  (see  The  People's 
Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  ch.  1).  The  document,  which 
established  the  normative  foundations  of  the  republic,  consisted 
of  seventeen  chapters  and  119  articles.  The  preamble  traced  Ethio- 
pia's origins  back  to  antiquity,  proclaimed  the  historical  heroism 
of  its  people,  praised  the  country's  substantial  natural  and  human 
resources,  and  pledged  to  continue  the  struggle  against  imperial- 
ism, poverty,  and  hunger.  The  government's  primary  concern  was 
proclaimed  to  be  the  country's  development  through  the  implemen- 
tation of  the  Program  for  the  National  Democratic  Revolution 
(PNDR).  In  the  process,  it  was  assumed  that  the  material  and  tech- 
nical bases  necessary  for  establishing  socialism  would  be  created. 

The  constitution  attempted  to  situate  Ethiopia  in  the  context  of 
the  worldwide  movement  of  so-called  "progressive  states"  and  made 
no  direct  reference  to  Africa.  Critics  claim  that  the  constitution 
was  no  more  than  an  abridged  version  of  the  1977  Soviet  constitu- 
tion, with  the  exception  that  strong  powers  were  assigned  to  the 
newly  created  office  of  the  president.  A  second  difference  between 
the  Ethiopian  and  Soviet  constitutions  is  that  the  former  declared 
the  country  to  be  a  unitary  state  rather  than  a  union  of  republics. 
It  was  reported  that  the  problem  of  nationalities  was  hotly  debated 
in  the  Constitutional  Commission,  as  well  as  in  the  WPE  Central 
Committee,  but  the  regime  would  not  abandon  its  desire  to  create 
a  single  multiethnic  state  rather  than  a  federation. 

The  Social  Order 

Chapter  1  of  the  constitution  defined  Ethiopia's  social  order.  The 
People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  (PDRE)  was  declared  to 
be  "a  state  of  working  peasants  in  which  the  intelligentsia,  the  revolu- 
tionary army,  artisans,  and  other  democratic  sections  of  society 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


participate."  The  commitment  to  socialist  construction  was 
reaffirmed,  as  was  the  idea  of  egalitarianism  within  the  context  of 
a  unitary  state.  The  official  language  remained  Amharic.  The  func- 
tioning and  organization  of  the  country  was  proclaimed  to  be  based 
on  the  principles  of  democratic  centralism,  under  which  represen- 
tative party  and  state  organs  are  elected  by  lower  bodies.  The  van- 
guard character  of  the  WPE  was  asserted,  and  its  roles  as  well  as 
those  of  mass  organizations  were  spelled  out. 

Chapter  2  dealt  with  the  country's  economic  system.  The  state 
was  dedicated  to  the  creation  of  a  "highly  interdependent  and  in- 
tegrated national  economy"  and  to  the  establishment  of  conditions 
favorable  to  development.  In  addition,  the  constitution  commit- 
ted the  state  to  central  planning;  state  ownership  of  the  means  of 
production,  distribution,  and  exchange;  and  expansion  of  cooper- 
ative ownership  among  the  general  population. 

Chapter  3  addressed  social  issues,  ranging  from  education  and 
the  family  to  historical  preservation  and  cultural  heritage.  The  fam- 
ily was  described  as  the  basis  of  society  and  therefore  deserving 
of  special  attention  by  means  of  the  joint  efforts  of  state  and  soci- 
ety. In  addition,  the  constitution  pledged  that  health  insurance  and 
other  social  services  would  be  expanded  through  state  leadership. 

National  defense  was  the  subject  of  Chapter  4.  The  first  article 
asserted  the  nation's  need  to  defend  its  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  and  to  safeguard  the  accomplishments  of  the  revolution. 
It  was  declared  that  the  Ethiopian  people  had  a  historical  respon- 
sibility to  defend  the  country.  The  defense  force  was  to  be  the  army 
of  the  country's  working  people.  The  army's  fundamental  role 
would  be  to  secure  peace  and  socialism. 

Foreign  policy  objectives  were  spelled  out  in  four  brief  articles 
in  Chapter  5  and  were  based  on  the  principles  of  proletarian  in- 
ternationalism, peaceful  coexistence,  and  nonalignment.  In  many 
respects,  the  language  of  this  section  resembled  that  of  a  constitu- 
tion of  a  Warsaw  Pact  country  in  the  days  before  glasnost. 

Citizenship,  Freedoms,  Rights,  and  Duties 

Chapters  6  and  7  were  concerned  with  defining  citizenship  and 
spelling  out  the  freedoms,  rights,  and  duties  of  citizens.  The  lan- 
guage was  egalitarian,  and  Ethiopians  were  declared  to  be  equal 
before  the  law,  regardless  of  nationality,  sex,  religion,  occupation, 
and  social  or  other  status.  They  had  the  right  to  marry,  to  work, 
to  rest,  to  receive  free  education,  and  to  have  access  to  health  care 
and  to  a  fair  trial.  Ethiopians  were  guaranteed  freedom  of  conscience 
and  religion.  As  was  not  the  case  in  imperial  Ethiopia,  religion  and 
the  state  were  proclaimed  to  be  separate  institutions.  Citizens  were 


217 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

assured  the  freedoms  of  movement,  speech,  press,  assembly,  peace- 
ful demonstration,  and  association.  Regarding  political  participa- 
tion, citizens  had  the  right  to  vote  and  the  right  to  be  elected  to 
political  office.  Their  duties  included  national  military  service,  pro- 
tection of  socialist  state  property,  protection  of  the  environment, 
and  observance  of  the  constitution  and  laws  of  the  country. 

In  spite  of  the  attention  the  constitution  paid  to  basic  freedoms, 
until  the  last  days  of  the  regime  international  human  rights  organi- 
zations were  virtually  unanimous  in  condemning  the  Mengistu  re- 
gime. Summary  execution,  political  detention,  torture,  and  forced 
migration  represented  only  some  of  the  violations  cited  by  these 
groups  (see  Human  Rights,  ch.  5). 

National  Shengo  (National  Assembly) 

The  constitution's  most  detailed  sections  related  to  the  central 
government's  organization  and  activities.  In  these  sections,  the 
document  described  the  various  state  organs  and  explained  their 
relationship  to  one  another. 

The  supreme  organ  of  state  power  was  the  National  Shengo 
(National  Assembly).  Its  responsibilities  included  amending  the  con- 
stitution; determining  foreign,  defense,  and  security  policy;  estab- 
lishing the  boundaries,  status,  and  accountability  of  administrative 
regions;  and  approving  economic  plans.  The  National  Shengo  was 
also  responsible  for  establishing  the  Council  of  State;  the  Council 
of  Ministers,  ministries,  state  committees,  commissions,  and  state 
authorities;  the  Supreme  Court;  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  Gen- 
eral; the  National  Workers'  Control  Committee;  and  the  Office 
of  the  Auditor  General.  In  addition,  the  National  Shengo  elected 
the  president  and  officials  of  the  Council  of  State  and  approved 
the  appointment  of  other  high-ranking  authorities. 

Candidates  to  the  National  Shengo  had  to  be  nominated  by 
regional  branches  of  the  WPE,  mass  organizations,  military  units, 
and  other  associations  recognized  by  law.  Balloting  for  seats  in  the 
National  Shengo  was  required  to  be  secret,  and  all  individuals  eigh- 
teen years  of  age  and  above  were  eligible  to  vote.  Elected  mem- 
bers served  five-year  terms,  and  the  body  met  in  regular  session 
once  each  year.  These  sessions  were  usually  public  but  might  on 
occasion  be  held  in  camera.  In  1987  the  National  Shengo  had  835 
members. 

Council  of  State 

The  Council  of  State,  consisting  of  the  president  of  the  repub- 
lic, several  vice  presidents,  a  secretary,  and  other  members,  was 
an  organ  of  the  National  Shengo.  The  Council  of  State  served  as 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


the  most  active  oversight  arm  of  the  government,  and  it  exercised 
the  national  legislative  role  when  the  National  Shengo  was  not  in 
session.  In  addition  to  its  normal  functions,  the  Council  of  State 
was  empowered  to  establish  a  defense  council  and  might  be  assigned 
special  duties  by  the  National  Shengo  (see  Command  and  Force 
Structure,  ch.  5).  The  Council  of  State  had  the  further  authority 
to  issue  decrees  in  the  pursuit  of  the  duties  stipulated  by  law  or 
assigned  by  the  National  Shengo.  The  power  of  this  organ  was  evi- 
dent in  the  constitutional  provision  that  stated,  "When  compel- 
ling circumstances  warrant  it,  the  Council  of  State  may,  between 
sessions  of  the  National  Shengo,  proclaim  a  state  of  emergency, 
war,  martial  law,  mobilization  or  peace." 

The  President 

The  1987  constitution  established  the  office  of  president.  Theo- 
retically, the  Council  of  State  ruled  along  with  the  president  and 
exercised  legislative  oversight  in  relation  to  other  branches  of 
government.  In  reality,  however,  the  office  of  the  president  in  par- 
ticular and  the  executive  branch  in  general  were  the  most  power- 
ful branches  of  government.  The  president  was  able  to  act  with 
considerable  independence  from  the  National  Shengo. 

Although  the  constitution  stipulated  that  the  president  was  ac- 
countable to  the  National  Shengo,  Mengistu  demonstrated  repeat- 
edly that  there  was  no  authority  higher  than  his  own  office.  By  law 
he  was  responsible  for  presenting  members  of  his  executive  staff 
and  the  Supreme  Court  to  the  National  Shengo  for  election.  At 
the  same  time,  the  president,  "when  compelling  circumstances  war- 
rant it' i  between  sessions  of  the  National  Shengo,  could  appoint 
or  relieve  the  prime  minister,  the  deputy  prime  minister,  and  other 
members  of  the  Council  of  Ministers;  the  president,  the  vice  presi- 
dent, and  Supreme  Court  judges;  the  prosecutor  general;  the  chair- 
man of  the  National  Workers'  Control  Committee;  and  the  auditor 
general.  The  National  Shengo  was  by  law  supposed  to  act  on  such 
decrees  in  its  next  regular  session,  but  this  appeared  to  be  only 
pro  forma. 

The  president,  who  could  be  elected  to  an  indefinite  number  of 
successive  five-year  terms,  had  to  submit  nominations  for  appoint- 
ment to  the  Council  of  Ministers  (his  cabinet)  to  the  National 
Shengo  for  approval.  However,  by  the  time  nominations  reached 
the  National  Shengo  for  consideration,  their  appointment  was  a 
foregone  conclusion.  In  practice,  President  Mengistu  would  chose 
individuals  for  particular  offices  without  any  apparent  input  from 
the  National  Shengo,  the  WPE,  or  the  Council  of  State. 


219 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  president,  who  was  also  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed 
forces,  was  also  responsible  for  implementing  foreign  and  domes- 
tic policy,  concluding  international  treaties,  and  establishing  diplo- 
matic missions.  If  he  deemed  it  necessary,  the  president  could  rule 
by  decree. 

Council  of  Ministers 

The  Council  of  Ministers,  defined  in  the  constitution  as  "the 
Government,"  was  the  government's  highest  executive  and  ad- 
ministrative organ.  The  body  consisted  of  the  prime  minister,  the 
deputy  prime  minister,  the  ministers,  and  other  members  as  deter- 
mined by  law.  Members  were  accountable  to  the  National  Shengo, 
but  between  sessions  they  were  accountable  to  the  president  and 
the  Council  of  State.  Members  of  this  council  were  chosen  from 
regularly  elected  members  of  the  National  Shengo  and  served  five- 
year  terms,  unless  they  resigned  or  were  removed  by  the  president. 
For  example,  in  early  November  1989  Prime  Minister  Fikre- Selassie 
Wogderes  resigned  his  office,  allegedly  for  health  reasons.  However, 
some  reports  maintained  that  he  was  forced  out  by  Mengistu  be- 
cause of  his  apparent  loss  of  enthusiasm  for  the  regime's  policies. 
At  the  same  time,  Mengistu  reshuffled  his  cabinet.  Significantly, 
these  events  occurred  weeks  after  the  annual  session  of  the  National 
Shengo  had  concluded. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  was  responsible  for  the  implementa- 
tion of  laws  and  regulations  and  for  the  normal  administrative  func- 
tions of  national  government.  It  prepared  social  and  economic 
development  plans,  the  annual  budget,  and  proposals  concerning 
foreign  relations.  In  their  respective  areas  of  responsibility,  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  Ministers  were  the  direct  representatives  of 
the  president  and  the  government;  and  because  they  typically  held 
parallel  offices  within  the  WPE,  as  a  group  they  tended  to  be  the 
most  significant  political  actors  in  the  government. 

In  1991  there  were  twenty-one  ministries.  Portfolios  consisted 
of  the  Ministry  in  Charge  of  the  General  Plan  and  the  ministries 
of  agriculture;  coffee  and  tea  development;  communications  and 
transport;  construction;  culture  and  sports  affairs;  domestic  trade; 
education  and  fine  arts;  finance;  foreign  affairs;  foreign  trade; 
health;  industry;  information;  internal  affairs;  labor  and  social 
affairs;  law  and  justice;  mines,  energy,  and  water  resources;  na- 
tional defense;  state  farms;  and  urban  development  and  housing. 
In  addition  to  these  ministries,  there  were  several  other  important 
state  authorities,  such  as  the  Office  of  the  National  Council  for  Cen- 
tral Planning,  the  Institute  for  the  Study  of  Ethiopian  Nationalities, 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


the  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission,  and  the  National  Bank 
of  Ethiopia. 

Judicial  System 

The  constitution  provided  for  Ethiopia's  first  independent 
judiciary.  Traditionally,  the  Supreme  Court  and  various  lower 
courts  were  the  responsibility  of  the  Ministry  of  Law  and  Justice. 
After  Haile  Selassie's  overthrow,  much  of  the  formal  structure  of 
the  existing  judicial  structure  remained  intact.  Over  the  years, 
regional  and  district  level  courts  were  reformed  somewhat.  How- 
ever, the  new  constitutional  provisions  had  the  potential  to  change 
Ethiopia's  national  judicial  system  significantly. 

The  constitution  stipulated  that  judicial  authority  was  vested  in 
"one  Supreme  Court,  courts  of  administrative  and  autonomous 
regions,  and  other  courts  established  by  law."  Supreme  Court 
judges  were  elected  by  the  National  Shengo;  those  who  served  at 
the  regional  level  were  elected  by  regional  shengos  (assemblies).  In 
each  case,  the  judges  served  terms  concurrent  with  that  of  the  shengo 
that  elected  them.  The  Supreme  Court  and  higher  courts  at  the 
regional  level  were  independent  of  the  Ministry  of  Law  and  Justice, 
but  judges  could  be  recalled  by  the  relevant  shengo. 

The  Supreme  Court  was  responsible  for  administering  the  na- 
tional judicial  system.  The  court's  powers  were  expanded  to  over- 
see all  judicial  aspects  of  lesser  courts,  not  just  cases  appealed  to 
it.  At  the  request  of  the  prosecutor  general  or  the  president  of  the 
Supreme  Court,  the  Supreme  Court  could  review  any  case  from 
another  court.  Noteworthy  is  the  fact  that,  in  addition  to  separate 
civil  and  criminal  sections,  the  court  had  a  military  section.  In  the 
late  1980s,  it  was  thought  that  this  development  might  bring  the 
military  justice  system,  which  had  been  independent,  into  the  nor- 
mal judicial  system.  However,  it  became  evident  that  it  would  be 
some  time  before  the  Supreme  Court  could  begin  to  serve  this  func- 
tion adequately. 

Between  1987  and  1989,  the  government  undertook  a  restruc- 
turing of  the  Supreme  Court  with  the  intent  of  improving  the  su- 
pervision of  judges  and  of  making  the  administration  of  justice  fairer 
and  more  efficient.  The  Supreme  Court  Council  was  responsible 
for  overseeing  the  court's  work  relating  to  the  registration  and  train- 
ing of  judges  and  lawyers.  The  Supreme  Court  Council's  first  an- 
nual meeting  was  held  in  August  1988,  at  which  time  it  passed  rules 
of  procedure  and  rules  and  regulations  forjudges.  Although  the 
government  reported  that  the  courts  were  becoming  more  efficient, 
it  admitted  that  there  was  much  to  be  done  before  the  heavy  case 
burden  of  the  courts  could  be  relieved. 


221 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Chapter  15  of  the  constitution  established  the  Office  of  the  Pros- 
ecutor General,  which  was  responsible  for  ensuring  the  uniform 
application  and  enforcement  of  law  by  all  state  organs,  mass  or- 
ganizations, and  other  bodies.  The  prosecutor  general  was  elected 
by  the  National  Shengo  for  a  five-year  term  and  was  responsible 
for  appointing  and  supervising  prosecutors  at  all  levels.  In  carry- 
ing out  their  responsibilities,  these  officials  were  independent  of 
local  government  offices. 

Local  tribunals,  such  as  kebele  tribunals  and  peasant  association 
tribunals,  were  not  affected  by  the  1987  constitution.  People's  courts 
were  originally  established  under  the  jurisdiction  of  peasant  associ- 
ations and  kebeles.  All  matters  relating  to  land  redistribution  and 
expropriation  were  removed  from  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Ministry 
of  Law  and  Justice  and  placed  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  peasant 
association  tribunals,  whose  members  were  elected  by  association 
members.  In  addition,  such  tribunals  had  jurisdiction  over  a  num- 
ber of  minor  criminal  offenses,  including  intimidation,  violation 
of  the  privacy  of  domicile,  and  infractions  of  peasant  association 
regulations.  The  tribunals  also  had  jurisdiction  in  disputes  involv- 
ing small  sums  of  money  and  in  conflicts  between  peasant  associa- 
tions, their  members,  and  other  associations.  Appeals  from  people's 
tribunals  could  be  filed  with  regional  courts.  Kebele  tribunals  had 
powers  similar  to  those  of  their  counterparts  in  peasant  associations. 

Regional  and  Local  Government 
Regional  Administration 

When  it  assumed  power  in  1974,  the  Derg  only  slightly  reor- 
dered the  imperial  regime's  pattern  of  administrative  organization 
at  the  national  level.  By  contrast,  the  new  regime  saw  existing  local 
administration  as  anathema  to  the  objectives  of  socialist  construc- 
tion, and  its  reform  efforts  were  initially  more  evident  on  the  local 
level  than  in  the  central  bureaucracy. 

Immediately  after  assuming  power,  the  Derg  reorganized  Ethio- 
pia's  fourteen  provincial  administrations  and  replaced  all  serving 
governors  general.  The  fourteen  provinces  (teklay  ghizats)  were  re- 
labeled regions  (kifle  hagers)  and  were  divided  into  102  subregions 
(awrajas)  and  556  districts  (weredas).  (By  1981  the  number  of  ad- 
ministrative divisions  had  increased  to  sixteen  with  the  addition 
of  Addis  Ababa  and  Aseb.)  The  restructuring  was  a  major  step 
toward  dismantling  feudal  privilege.  Moreover,  all  new  appoin- 
tees were  either  military  men  or  university-educated  individuals 
who  were  considered  progressives. 

The  main  charge  of  these  new  administrators  initially  was  to  pro- 
mote development,  and  the  maintenance  of  law  and  order  was 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


considered  only  of  secondary  importance.  Despite  the  commitment 
to  rural  development  and  to  the  staffing  of  regional  administrative 
positions  with  young,  dynamic,  educated  people,  not  much  could 
be  done  to  accelerate  the  process  of  change.  Field  bureaucrats  had 
few  resources  to  work  with,  their  staffs  were  small,  and  their  budgets 
were  committed  almost  exclusively  to  salaries.  By  the  mid-1980s, 
the  relief  and  rehabilitation  contributions  of  foreign  private  volun- 
tary organizations  in  some  cases  made  more  resources  available 
at  the  local  level  than  did  the  regional  administrations. 

After  having  concentrated  on  a  gradual  transformation  of  the 
state's  administrative  structure,  with  the  promulgation  of  the  1987 
constitution  the  Mengistu  regime  prepared  for  a  further  reorganiza- 
tion of  regional  administration.  Hence,  at  its  inaugural  session,  the 
National  Shengo  enacted  a  government  plan  for  the  administrative 
reorganization  of  regional  government.  As  a  result,  twenty-five  ad- 
ministrative regions  and  five  autonomous  regions  were  created  (see 
fig.  1;  fig.  2).  The  autonomous  regions  consisted  of  Eritrea  (broken  fur- 
ther into  three  subregions  in  the  north,  west,  and  south),  Aseb,  Tigray, 
Dire  Dawa,  and  Ogaden.  The  change  promised  to  alter  significantiy 
Ethiopia's  traditional  pattern  of  administrative  organization. 

If  the  plan  were  to  be  fully  implemented,  this  reorganization  would 
have  required  a  dramatic  expansion  in  the  government  and  party 
bureaucracy.  Relatively  new  institutions,  like  regional  planning  bod- 
ies, would  have  been  eliminated  and  replaced  with  new  planning 
agencies  in  the  various  regions.  Some  observers  suggested  that  this 
plan  was  initially  endorsed  to  pursue  a  Soviet- style  approach  to  the 
nationalities  problem.  They  argued  that  the  regime  was  trying  to 
organize  regional  administration  along  ethnic  lines.  Consequently, 
this  reform  had  little  positive  effect  on  enhancing  the  regime's 
legitimacy  and  in  fact  limited  its  control  over  the  general  population. 

The  primary  organs  of  state  power  at  the  regional  level  were 
regional  shengos.  These  bodies  were  responsible  mainly  for  im- 
plementing the  central  government's  laws  and  decisions.  Regional 
shengos  could  draft  their  own  budgets  and  development  plans,  but 
these  had  to  be  approved  by  the  National  Shengo.  Regional  shengos 
also  possessed  some  latitude  in  devising  and  enforcing  local  laws 
and  regulations  and  in  electing  local  judges.  By  the  summer  of  1989, 
however,  regional  shengos  had  been  elected  in  only  eleven  of  the 
twenty-five  newly  designated  administrative  regions  and  in  only 
three  of  the  five  regions  designated  as  "autonomous." 

Peasant  Associations 

During  its  thirteen-year  existence  (1974  to  1987),  the  Derg 
worked  to  spread  administrative  reform  down  to  the  lowest  echelons 


223 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

of  regional  administration.  To  this  end,  it  took  several  important 
steps  in  1975. 

With  its  Land  Reform  Proclamation  in  March  1975,  the  Derg 
abolished  the  lowest  level  of  rural  administration,  the  balabat  (see 
Glossary),  and  called  for  the  formation  of  peasant  associations  that 
would  be  responsible  for  the  implementation  and  enforcement  of 
the  land  reform  measures.  Later  in  the  year,  the  Derg  issued  Procla- 
mation No.  71,  which  gave  peasant  associations  legal  status  and 
authorized  them  to  create  "conditions  facilitating  the  complete  de- 
struction of  the  feudal  order."  It  also  empowered  the  associations' 
executive  committees  to  draft  internal  regulations  that  would,  in 
theory,  devolve  more  power  to  local  communities.  These  asso- 
ciations were  to  be  guided  initially  by  students  in  the  Develop- 
ment Through  Cooperation  Campaign  (commonly  referred  to  as 
zemecha — see  Glossary),  who  were  expected  to  teach  peasants  about 
the  revolution's  goals.  Students  were  also  supposed  to  help  local 
communities  plan  and  implement  development  programs  in  their 
areas. 

Initially,  it  was  not  clear  how  much  power,  authority,  or  auton- 
omy the  regime  intended  to  devolve  to  local  institutions.  Conse- 
quently, state  agents  often  came  into  conflict  with  local  organizations 
under  the  guidance  of  students  who  were  often  more  radical  and 
politically  astute  than  government  functionaries.  By  1976,  to  bring 
local  communities  under  tighter  central  control,  the  Derg  introduced 
laws  spelling  out  the  rights  and  obligations  of  peasant  associations 
and  kebeles. 

To  the  extent  that  peasant  associations  maintained  some  of  their 
initial  autonomy,  they  did  so  almost  exclusively  with  regard  to  local 
issues.  On  national  issues,  the  regime,  through  the  party  and  other 
agencies,  manipulated  peasant  associations  to  suit  its  purposes.  After 
1978,  for  example,  production  cadres  and  political  cadres  of  the 
National  Revolutionary  Development  Campaign  (and  later  the 
WPE)  played  important  roles  in  motivating  peasant  production  and 
in  political  indoctrination.  State  control  of  local  associations  was 
also  a  natural  by-product  of  the  villagization  and  resettlement  pro- 
grams of  the  mid-  to  late  1980s  (see  The  Politics  of  Development, 
this  ch.;  Government  Rural  Programs,  ch.  3). 

By  1990  there  were  more  than  20,000  peasant  associations 
throughout  the  country.  They  represented  the  lowest  level  of  govern- 
ment administration  and,  in  collaboration  with  the  local  WPE  office, 
were  responsible  for  processing  and  interpreting  national  policies, 
maintaining  law  and  order,  and  planning  and  implementing  cer- 
tain local  development  policies.  State  control  grew  further  in  1975 
when  the  Derg  promoted  the  formation  of  the  All-Ethiopia  Peasants' 


224 


"Cash  for  Work"  project  sponsored  by  United  Nations  Children's  Fund 

and  Ethiopian  government 
Courtesy  United  Nations  Children's  Fund  (Bert  Demmers) 

Peasant  association  meeting 
Courtesy  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (F.  Botts) 


225 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Association  (AEPA),  a  national  association  having  district  offices 
responsible  for  overseeing  the  activities  of  local  associations.  Be- 
fore the  WPE's  formation,  AEPA  district  representatives  exercised 
supervisory  powers  over  the  associations  under  their  jurisdiction. 
The  management  of  elections,  investigations  into  allegations  of  mis- 
management, changes  to  association  boundaries,  and  organization 
of  political  meetings  all  came  under  the  purview  of  the  AEPA  dis- 
trict representative.  However,  by  1989  WPE  cadres  were  active  in 
monitoring  and  providing  guidance  to  local  peasant  associations. 

Kebeles 

In  July  1975,  the  Derg  issued  Proclamation  No.  47,  which  es- 
tablished kebeles,  or  urban  dwellers'  associations,  in  Addis  Ababa 
and  five  other  urban  centers.  Organized  similarly  to  peasant  as- 
sociations, Addis  Ababa's  291  kebeles  possessed  neighborhood  con- 
stituencies ranging  from  3,000  to  12,000  residents  each.  Like  the 
peasant  associations  in  the  countryside,  the  kebeles  were  initially 
responsible  only  for  the  collection  of  rent,  the  establishment  of  local 
judicial  tribunals,  and  the  provision  of  basic  health,  education,  and 
other  social  services  in  their  neighborhoods.  Kebele  powers  were  ex- 
panded in  late  1976  to  include  the  collection  of  local  taxes  and  the 
registration  of  houses,  residents,  births,  deaths,  and  marriages. 

During  the  height  of  the  Red  Terror  (see  Glossary),  kebeles  were 
responsible  for  ensuring  neighborhood  defense.  Neighborhood 
defense  squads  patrolled  their  communities  day  and  night  and  some- 
times operated  outside  the  control  of  the  central  authorities.  Many 
brutal  excesses  were  attributed  to  kebele  defense  squads  between  1976 
and  1978,  but  they  were  more  closely  monitored  thereafter  (see 
Political  Struggles  Within  the  Government,  ch.  1;  People's  Pro- 
tection Brigades,  ch.  5). 

In  April  1981,  the  Derg  issued  Proclamation  No.  25,  which 
provided  kebeles  with  extended  powers  and  a  more  elaborate  ad- 
ministrative structure.  According  to  this  new  structure,  the  general 
assembly,  composed  of  all  kebele  residents,  was  empowered  to  elect 
a  policy  committee,  which  in  turn  was  authorized  to  appoint  the 
executive  committee,  the  revolution  defense  committee,  and  the 
judicial  tribunal.  At  the  time  of  this  proclamation,  there  were  1,260 
kebeles  in  315  towns. 

The  government  estimated  national  kebele  membership  in  the  late 
1980s  at  4.4  million.  The  All-Ethiopia  Urban  Dwellers'  Associa- 
tion (AEUDA)  linked  kebeles  throughout  the  country.  This  organi- 
zation's bureaucracy  extended,  in  layers  that  paralleled  the  central 
bureaucracy,  down  to  the  neighborhood  level.  However,  as  in  the 
countryside,  the  WPE  had  become  the  most  important  political 


226 


Government  and  Politics 


institution,  capable  of  overriding  decisions  taken  by  kebeles  as  well 
as  by  peasant  associations. 

Civil  Service 

Upon  assuming  power  in  1974,  the  Derg  decided  to  undertake 
extensive  reforms  of  the  central  administration.  Rather  than  en- 
gage in  immediate,  wholesale  reorganization,  the  Derg  concentrated 
on  replacing  career  bureaucrats  in  the  key  ministries  of  interior, 
community  development,  and  justice.  If  the  Derg  had  purged  the 
upper  echelons  of  the  entire  civil  service  after  1974,  there  would 
have  been  insufficient  numbers  of  educated,  skilled,  and  experienced 
managers  to  conduct  the  normal  affairs  of  government. 

In  general,  the  Derg  allowed  most  bureaucrats  who  had  served 
the  emperor  to  remain  at  their  posts  and  appointed  army  officers 
to  monitor  their  activities  in  every  ministry.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Derg  attempted  to  recruit  into  the  civil  service  former  high  school 
and  college  students  who  were  then  serving  in  the  zemecha.  This 
group  tended  to  be  committed  to  revolutionary  change,  but  it  often 
lacked  the  bureaucratic  skills  to  achieve  this  goal.  Moreover,  al- 
though the  campaigners  generally  favored  the  revolution,  many 
opposed  military  rule,  and  once  in  positions  of  authority  they  under- 
mined rather  than  promoted  the  regime's  goals. 

Eventually,  the  Derg  required  all  civil  servants  and  political  ap- 
pointees to  undergo  reeducation  to  acquire  the  proper  socialist  orien- 
tation. Many  civil  servants,  as  well  as  military  personnel,  traveled 
to  the  Soviet  Union,  Eastern  Europe,  and  Cuba  for  ideological 
training.  After  the  establishment  in  1976  of  the  Yekatit  '66  Ideo- 
logical School  and  after  the  creation  of  COPWE  in  1979,  hundreds 
more  could  be  taught  Marxist-Leninist  doctrine  inside  Ethiopia. 
Some  became  party  cadres  and  served  in  various  parts  of  the  country 
to  encourage  and  monitor  the  political  education  and  economic 
productivity  of  both  government  agencies  and  the  citizenry  at  large. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  revolution,  the  central  bureaucracy  was 
characterized  by  constant  bickering  among  the  various  ministries 
and  a  general  lack  of  interministerial  coordination.  This  situation 
forced  the  Derg  to  create  the  Ministry  of  National  Resource  De- 
velopment in  1975  to  promote  agricultural  development  as  a  pos- 
sible solution  to  interministerial  coordination  problems  and  to 
address  the  problem  of  low  productivity  within  society  at  large. 
By  1976  this  strategy  had  failed,  and  the  functions  of  the  Ministry 
of  National  Resource  Development  were  distributed  among  several 
ministries  and  parastatal  bodies.  The  creation  of  the  Central  Plan- 
ning Supreme  Council  in  1978  represented  a  more  concerted  at- 
tempt to  coordinate  bureaucratic  participation  in  development.  This 


227 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

strategy  worked  for  a  brief  time,  but  by  the  late  1980s  bureaucratic 
inefficiency  had  returned. 

Starting  in  1978,  the  Mengistu  regime  systematically  attempted 
to  enhance  its  ability  to  control  the  general  population,  and  to  a 
certain  extent  it  used  the  civil  service  for  this  purpose.  The  state 
bureaucracy  expanded  enormously  in  the  first  decade  of  the  revo- 
lution, and  control  by  the  military  deepened  and  expanded  in  the 
process.  This  bureaucratic  expansion  increased  the  coercive  capacity 
of  the  state  and  laid  the  groundwork  for  the  establishment  of  the 
all-embracing  vanguard  party.  After  the  creation  of  the  WPE  in 
1984,  the  regime  established  a  wide  array  of  government  institu- 
tions that  radiated  from  the  center  out  to  the  regional  and  local 
levels.  Leadership  positions  in  these  new  institutions  were  used  as 
patronage  by  the  regime  to  reward  loyal  supporters  or  to  co-opt 
potential  adversaries  in  the  military.  Although  patronage  had  been 
employed  by  Haile  Selassie,  it  was  different  under  the  Mengistu 
regime  in  that  it  was  not  rooted  in  the  traditional  social  order  but 
rather  in  the  spoils  accruing  to  a  transitional  state  that  controlled 
access  to  wealth  and  power. 

The  inauguration  of  the  WPE  resulted  in  a  blurring  of  the  lines 
between  party  and  state.  As  noted  previously,  party  operatives 
tended  to  interject  themselves  freely  into  the  areas  of  administra- 
tion and  government  policy.  For  example,  party  cadres  had  im- 
portant political  and  intelligence-gathering  roles  in  the  workplace. 
The  Working  People's  Control  Committees  (WPCCs),  created  in 
1981,  had  come  to  serve  as  a  somewhat  threatening  "watchdog" 
over  productive  activities.  WPCCs  were  supposed  to  be  involved 
in  the  implementation,  supervision,  and  follow-up  of  government 
policies,  regulations,  and  directives.  WPCCs  also  could  audit  the 
accounts  of  any  government  institution,  mass  organization,  or  pri- 
vate individual.  By  1984  the  regime  was  crediting  WPCCs  with 
having  uncovered  numerous  incidents  of  fraud,  corruption,  waste, 
and  counterrevolution.  For  all  its  authoritarianism,  the  Haile  Selas- 
sie regime  was  never  able  to  achieve  such  tight  surveillance.  The 
Derg's  capacity  in  this  area  was  an  indication  of  the  effectiveness 
of  the  training  provided  by  security  advisers  from  the  Soviet  Union 
and  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany)  (see  For- 
eign Military  Assistance,  ch.  5). 

Although  it  was  difficult  to  calculate  its  actual  size,  the  central 
bureaucracy  evidently  grew  tremendously  after  the  revolution.  The 
dimensions  of  this  growth  can  be  deduced  from  an  analysis  of  con- 
sumption expenditures,  which  include  wages  and  salaries.  Figures 
available  in  late  1989  indicated  that  between  1974  and  1980  such 
expenditure  grew  from  about  5  billion  birr  (for  value  of  the  birr — see 


228 


Government  and  Politics 


Glossary)  to  almost  8  billion  birr,  an  increase  of  60  percent.  Cen- 
tral administration  and  defense  accounted  for  about  80  percent  of 
the  1980  figures.  The  growth  of  the  public  bureaucracy,  even  when 
the  party  bureaucracy  was  excluded,  represented  a  tremendous 
drain  on  the  resources  available  for  development.  Moreover,  it  ap- 
peared that  if  the  regional  reforms  announced  in  1987  were  to  be 
implemented  fully,  the  civil  service  would  have  to  expand  even 
further. 

The  Politics  of  Development 

During  the  1980s,  the  government  attempted  to  consolidate  the 
revolution  both  structurally  and  ideologically.  When  it  assumed 
power  in  1974,  the  Derg  pledged  immediate  attention  to  the  social 
injustices  that  had  been  perpetrated  by  the  imperial  regime.  In  the 
revolution's  earliest  stages,  the  Derg's  commitment  to  this  pledge 
was  manifested  in  particular  by  policies  such  as  the  nationaliza- 
tion of  rural  and  urban  property.  The  first  year  and  a  half  of  the 
new  order  could  be  described  as  a  " phase  of  redistribution."  In 
the  name  of  the  "people,"  the  "toiling  masses,"  and  the  "oppressed 
tillers  of  the  soil,"  the  government  confiscated  property  previously 
owned  by  the  nobility  and  other  persons  of  wealth  and  redistrib- 
uted it  to  peasants,  tenants,  and  renters. 

Peasants  and  workers  expected  that  the  new  order  would  bring 
about  a  fundamental  change  in  their  circumstances,  and  to  a  cer- 
tain extent  this  did  happen.  They  also  expected  to  be  involved  in 
determining  their  own  fate;  this,  however,  did  not  occur.  The  Derg 
quickly  declared  its  own  preeminent  role  as  the  vanguard  of  the 
revolution,  causing  concern  among  urban  workers  that  their  role 
was  being  minimized.  When  labor  tried  to  become  more  instrumen- 
tal in  the  changes  that  were  beginning  to  take  place,  the  govern- 
ment suppressed  the  workers'  movement.  The  Derg  condemned 
the  Confederation  of  Ethiopian  Labor  Unions  (CELU)  as  re- 
actionary and  disbanded  it  in  late  1975.  In  its  place,  in  1977  the 
regime  created  the  All-Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (AETU),  a  confeder- 
ation of  1,700  unions  whose  rank  and  file  numbered  more  than 
300,000  in  1984  (see  Labor  Unions,  ch.  3).  The  regime  thus  co- 
opted  the  labor  movement,  and  after  1976  the  government  seemed 
free  to  devise  its  own  social  development  strategy  without  much 
input  from  the  groups  that  would  be  most  affected. 

The  Derg  tried  to  develop  a  social  policy  strategy  to  enhance 
its  power  and  legitimacy.  To  this  end,  the  government  achieved 
progress  in  fields  such  as  education  and  health  care.  In  1979,  for 
example,  Ethiopia  launched  a  massive  rural  literacy  campaign;  the 
government  also  established  hundreds  of  health  stations  to  provide 


229 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

minimal  health  care  to  the  citizenry.  However,  it  proved  unable 
to  effect  dramatic  improvements  in  the  quality  of  life  among  broad 
segments  of  the  population.  In  part,  this  was  because  Ethiopia  had 
long  been  one  of  the  world's  poorest  countries.  At  the  same  time, 
two  additional  factors  greatly  affected  the  performance  of  the 
Mengistu  regime:  the  interaction  of  natural  catastrophes  and  civil 
unrest,  and  misguided  development  policies  such  as  resettlement 
and  villagization. 

The  Politics  of  Drought  and  Famine 

The  Derg's  limited  ability  to  lead  development  and  to  respond 
to  crises  was  dramatically  demonstrated  by  the  government's  reli- 
ance on  foreign  famine  relief  between  1984  and  1989.  By  1983 
armed  conflict  between  the  government  and  opposition  movements 
in  the  north  had  combined  with  drought  to  contribute  to  mass  star- 
vation in  Eritrea,  Tigray,  and  Welo.  Meanwhile,  drought  alone 
was  having  a  devastating  impact  on  an  additional  nine  regions. 
This  natural  disaster  far  exceeded  the  drought  of  1973-74,  which 
had  contributed  to  the  demise  of  the  Haile  Selassie  regime.  By  early 
1985,  some  7.7  million  people  were  suffering  from  drought  and 
food  shortages.  Of  that  number,  2.5  million  were  at  immediate 
risk  of  starving.  More  than  300,000  died  in  1984  alone,  more  than 
twice  the  number  that  died  in  the  drought  a  decade  before.  Before 
the  worst  was  over,  1  million  Ethiopians  had  died  from  drought 
and  famine  in  the  1980s  (see  Refugees,  Drought,  and  Famine, 
ch.  2). 

As  it  had  in  the  past,  in  the  mid-1980s  the  international  com- 
munity responded  generously  to  Ethiopia's  tragedy  once  the  dimen- 
sions of  the  crisis  became  understood.  Bilateral,  multilateral,  and 
private  donations  of  food  and  other  relief  supplies  poured  into  the 
country  by  late  1984.  Contributions  ranged  from  food  to  trans- 
port trucks,  antibiotics,  well-drilling  equipment,  and  technical 
assistance.  Fund  raising  by  spontaneously  created  volunteer  organi- 
zations in  the  West,  such  as  USA  for  Africa,  BandAid,  and  nu- 
merous church  and  humanitarian  groups,  was  instrumental  to  the 
provision  of  substantial  nongovernment  famine  relief.  Most  of  the 
money  and  supplies  sent  to  Ethiopia,  however,  were  provided 
by  Western  governments,  in  particular  those  of  Britain,  Canada, 
Italy,  the  Scandinavian  countries,  and  the  United  States.  Ethio- 
pia's Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission  (RRC),  at  the  time 
headed  by  an  Ethiopian  official  named  Dawit  Wolde  Giorgis,  coor- 
dinated delivery  of  this  assistance.  Although  Mengistu  and  other 
members  of  the  Derg  were  nervous  about  the  prospect  of  so  many 


230 


Relief  camp  in  Kwiha,  near  Mekele,  1985 
Courtesy  International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (D.  Gignoux) 

Westerners  flooding  into  the  country  and  having  access  to  areas 
where  the  regime  was  not  popular,  Dawit  apparently  was  able  to 
develop  enough  trust  in  the  international  aid  community  to  bring 
the  catastrophe  under  control  by  late  1986  (Dawit  later  defected 
to  the  United  States). 

By  1987  the  physical  impact  of  this  massive  influx  of  aid  over 
such  a  short  time  was  noticeable  not  only  in  the  abatement  of  fam- 
ine but  also  in  what  seemed  to  be  the  permanent  establishment 
of  local  offices  by  various  donor  agencies.  Although  many  foreign 
relief  workers  had  returned  home  by  1987,  some  relief  agencies 
remained  to  attempt  to  begin  the  rehabilitation  and  development 
processes.  These  would  have  been  difficult  tasks  under  the  best  of 
circumstances,  but  in  the  context  of  a  regime  pursuing  a  specific 
political  agenda  in  spite  of  the  unprecedented  humanitarian  im- 
peratives involved  in  the  situation,  those  agencies  that  remained 
had  difficulty  engaging  in  effective  rehabilitation  and  development. 
In  the  countryside,  the  WPE  often  closely  regulated  the  activities 
of  foreign  and  local  nongovernment  agencies.  At  one  point  in  the 
spring  of  1989,  the  WPE  forbade  the  International  Committee  of 
the  Red  Cross  to  operate  in  areas  most  severely  ravaged  by  war. 
Before  the  year  was  out,  drought  and  war  again  threatened  the 
lives  of  more  than  7  million  people. 


231 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Despite  drought  and  famine  of  unprecedented  proportions  in 
modern  Ethiopian  history,  the  Derg  persisted  on  its  controversial 
political  course.  If  the  famine  had  a  positive  side  for  the  govern- 
ment, it  was  that  the  flood  of  famine  relief  assistance  during  the 
period  of  party  construction  and  constitution-making  allowed  the 
regime  to  devote  more  of  its  budget  to  suppression  of  the  rebel- 
lions in  Eritrea  and  Tigray.  However,  by  late  1989  drought,  fam- 
ine, and  war,  combined  with  so-called  "aid  fatigue"  among  many 
donors,  forced  the  regime  to  take  desperate  measures.  The  govern- 
ment reinstated  national  conscription,  required  workers  to  give  one 
month's  salary  to  aid  in  combating  famine  and  war,  and  halved 
the  development  budget  as  funds  were  diverted  to  defense. 

The  Politics  of  Resettlement 

The  Derg's  policies  appear  to  have  been  driven  more  by  politi- 
cal imperatives  than  by  perceived  economic  objectives.  A  case  in 
point  was  the  controversial  policy  of  resettling  the  victims  of  the 
drought  and  famine  outside  their  home  areas.  At  the  height  of  the 
drought  and  famine  in  1984,  the  regime  set  in  motion  a  resettle- 
ment policy  that  was  initially  designed  to  relocate  1.5  million  peo- 
ple from  areas  in  the  north  most  severely  affected  by  drought  to 
areas  in  the  west  and  south  that  had  experienced  adequate  rain- 
fall. By  1988,  despite  the  resettlement  program's  obvious  failure, 
President  Mengistu  repeatedly  asserted  that  the  program  would 
continue.  He  estimated  that  eventually  7  million  of  Ethiopia's  ap- 
proximately 48  million  people  would  be  resettled.  The  government 
claimed  that  it  was  carrying  out  the  program  for  humanitarian  rea- 
sons, contending  that  it  would  remove  the  people  from  exhausted 
and  unproductive  land  and  place  them  in  settlements  with  rich 
agricultural  potential.  In  addition,  the  government  argued  that  the 
new  settlements  would  greatly  facilitate  its  efforts  to  provide  social 
services. 

Initially,  settlers  were  chosen  from  feeding  centers  in  Welo, 
Tigray,  and  northern  Shewa  and  transported  by  trucks,  buses,  and 
cargo  aircraft  to  resettlement  sites  in  Kefa,  Gojam,  Gonder,  Welega, 
and  Ilubabor.  The  government  was  poorly  prepared  for  the  oper- 
ation, and  the  first  settlers  experienced  tremendous  hardships  in 
alien,  underdeveloped,  and  disease-infested  areas.  Some  peasants 
moved  voluntarily,  but  many  more  were  forced  to  move.  Many 
of  those  forcibly  resetded  were  able  to  escape.  Some  fled  into  Sudan 
or  Somalia,  and  others  took  shelter  in  refugee  camps  or  walked 
thousands  of  miles  to  reenter  their  native  regions.  Still  others  joined 
opposition  groups  dedicated  to  overthrowing  the  regime.  Those 
who  remained  in  resettled  areas  were  often  resented  by  the  local 


232 


Government  and  Politics 


residents,  many  of  whom  had  been  impressed  into  building  com- 
munity infrastructure  and  donating  materials. 

Some  critics  rejected  the  government's  argument  that  resettle- 
ment was  driven  by  humanitarian  considerations.  Instead,  they 
contended  that  the  government's  motives  were  political.  The  pol- 
icy led  to  a  depopulation  of  areas  that  harbored  groups  that  militarily 
opposed  the  regime,  such  as  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front 
(EPLF),  the  Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  (TPLF),  and  the 
Oromo  Liberation  Front  (OLF). 

Critics  within  the  international  community  charged  that  the 
Ethiopian  government's  resettiement  program  served  as  an  obsta- 
cle to  dealing  more  effectively  with  the  problems  of,  drought  and 
famine  relief.  Moving  victims  to  settlements  far  from  their  home 
areas  merely  made  them  inordinately  dependent  on  the  govern- 
ment. In  addition,  they  claimed  that  fundamental  human  rights 
were  sacrificed  in  the  name  of  political  expediency. 

Regardless  of  the  real  motive  for  the  resettlement  policy,  its  net 
effect  was  to  increase  government  control  over  large  segments  of 
society.  In  each  resettlement  site,  WPE  cadres  carried  out  politi- 
cal education  and  attempted  to  stimulate  the  population  to  be  more 
productive.  The  government  insisted  that  it  was  not  trying  to  en- 
force collectivized  agricultural  production  but  rather  was  trying  to 
encourage  more  efficient  activities.  However,  in  actual  practice, 
cadres  pressured  peasants  to  form  collectives.  The  main  value  of 
this  policy  for  the  regime  seems  to  have  been  the  political  control 
it  promised. 

The  Politics  of  Villagization 

Further  evidence  of  the  Ethiopian  government's  desire  to  en- 
hance its  control  over  the  citizenry  was  its  villagization  program. 
The  idea  of  clustering  villages  was  introduced  in  the  Land  Reform 
Proclamation  of  1975;  however,  there  was  no  immediate  effort  to 
implement  such  a  policy  on  a  large  scale.  The  first  area  to  become 
the  object  of  serious  government  efforts  was  Bale,  following  the 
onset  of  the  Ogaden  War  of  1977-78  (see  The  Somali,  ch.  5).  At 
that  time,  ethnic  Somali  and  Oromo  living  in  Bale  were  forced  by 
the  Ethiopian  government  into  strategically  clustered  villages.  The 
official  objective  of  the  move  was  to  provide  social  services  more 
efficiently  and  to  stimulate  voluntary  self-help  among  villagers.  By 
1983  there  were  519  villagized  communities  ranging  in  population 
from  300  to  7,000. 

The  government  did  not  introduce  a  comprehensive  villagiza- 
tion plan  until  1985.  In  January  of  that  year,  the  villagization 
process  began  in  earnest  in  Harerge,  and  by  May  there  were  some 


233 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

2,000  villagized  communities  there.  That  summer,  the  process  was 
begun  in  Shewa  and  Arsi,  and  in  1986  small-scale  villagization  ef- 
forts were  begun  in  Gojam,  Welega,  Kefa,  Sidamo,  and  Ilubabor. 
The  National  Villagization  Coordinating  Committee  of  the  Ministry 
of  Agriculture,  in  collaboration  with  the  WPE,  organized  and 
managed  the  project.  By  March  1987,  it  was  estimated  that  there 
were  as  many  as  10,000  villagized  communities  throughout  the 
country.  The  long-term  goal  of  the  program  was  the  movement 
of  33  million  rural  residents — approximately  two-thirds  of  the  na- 
tion's population — into  villagized  settlements  by  1994.  By  late  1989, 
however,  only  about  13  million  peasants  had  been  villagized. 

The  WPE  introduced  guidelines  for  site  selection,  village  lay- 
out, and  related  matters.  At  the  regional  level,  a  committee  planned, 
coordinated,  and  monitored  the  program  through  a  network  of 
subcommittees  (planning  and  programming;  site  selection  and  sur- 
veying; material  procurement,  transportation,  and  logistics;  con- 
struction; propaganda  and  training;  monitoring  and  evaluation; 
and  security).  This  structure  was  replicated  in  successive  adminis- 
trative layers  down  to  the  peasant  associations — the  level  with  ulti- 
mate responsibility  for  implementation. 

In  some  regions  of  the  country,  the  decision  to  villagize  was  a 
voluntary  one,  but  in  others  the  process  was  compulsory.  In  either 
case,  peasants  were  required  to  dismantle  their  homes  and,  where 
possible,  transport  the  housing  materials  to  the  new  village  site. 
Campaigners  were  usually  brought  in  by  the  party  and  govern- 
ment to  help  the  people  physically  reconstruct  their  communities. 

Like  resettlement,  villagization  generally  caused  a  good  deal  of 
social  disruption.  Families  usually  were  required  to  move  from  their 
traditional  locations,  close  to  their  customary  farming  plots,  into 
clustered  villages  where  the  land  to  be  cultivated  often  was  on  frag- 
mented plots  far  from  the  homestead. 

The  villagization  program  was  most  successful  in  the  central  high- 
lands and  southern  lowlands,  regions  such  as  central  Shewa,  Arsi, 
and  highland  Harerge  that  were  firmly  under  government  control. 
Government  efforts  to  villagize  parts  of  western  Shewa,  the  Harerge 
lowlands,  and  Gojam  met  with  resistance.  In  the  case  of  Gojam 
and  western  Shewa,  this  resistance  in  large  measure  was  attrib- 
uted to  the  fact  that  the  TPLF  and  the  Ethiopian  People's  Demo- 
cratic Movement  (EPDM)  were  most  active  in  those  regions.  The 
Harerge  lowlands  were  populated  by  ethnic  Somali  who  were  not 
as  cooperative  with  the  government  as  were  the  highlanders,  who 
tended  to  be  Oromo. 

But  not  all  Oromo  peasants  readily  supported  the  villagization 
program.  Many  fled  from  new  villages  in  Harerge  after  1986,  taking 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


refuge  in  camps  in  Somalia.  By  June  1986,  an  estimated  50,000 
such  refugees  had  fled  resettlement,  mainly  for  political  reasons. 
Some  refugees  complained  that  they  were  forced  to  abandon  their 
traditional  patterns  of  cultivation  and  to  move  into  villages  where 
they  had  to  farm  collectively  and  to  participate  in  "food  for  work" 
programs.  Private  humanitarian  agencies  and  bilateral  and  multi- 
lateral development  agencies  were  apparently  aware  of  alleged,  as 
well  as  real,  violations  of  human  rights  associated  with  the  villagi- 
zation  program.  Nonetheless,  by  early  1987  many  seem  to  have 
turned  a  blind  eye  to  such  incidents  and  to  have  concentrated  on 
the  humanitarian  dimensions  of  their  work. 

On  purely  technical  grounds,  villagization,  like  resettlement, 
seemed  to  make  sense.  The  official  goal  was  to  improve  the  access 
of  rural  residents  to  social  services  and  to  strengthen  the  ability 
of  rural  communities  to  defend  themselves.  Another  motive,  how- 
ever, seemed  to  be  the  conversion  of  villagized  communities  into 
producers'  cooperatives  or  collectives,  as  well  as  into  centers  for 
military  recruitment. 

Political  Dynamics 

Modern  Ethiopian  political  history  has  been  shaped  and  domi- 
nated by  intense  conflict.  As  the  revolution  unfolded  in  1973  and 
1974,  the  political  environment  appeared  to  liberalize,  and  politi- 
cal discourse  became  more  open  than  at  any  other  time  in  Ethio- 
pian history.  This  was  particularly  true  in  urban  centers,  such  as 
the  capital  city  of  Addis  Ababa.  In  the  rural  areas,  groups  incor- 
porated into  Ethiopia  in  the  nineteenth  and  twentieth  centuries, 
such  as  the  Oromo,  Afar,  Somali,  and  Eritreans,  began  to  step 
up  their  demands  for  self-determination.  Several  of  these  groups 
questioned  the  very  legitimacy  of  the  Ethiopian  state.  The  Derg 
was  in  essence  being  challenged  to  devise  a  survival  strategy  that 
would  enhance  its  control  over  government  and  politics  and  cre- 
ate a  basis  for  popular  legitimacy.  Various  reorganizational  and 
institution-building  policies,  such  as  the  establishment  of  the  Pro- 
gram for  the  National  Democratic  Revolution  (PNDR),  the  crea- 
tion of  the  WPE,  and  the  promulgation  of  the  1987  constitution, 
were  all  designed  to  achieve  these  ends. 

Political  Participation  and  Repression 

The  period  immediately  following  the  overthrow  of  Haile  Selassie 
was  a  time  of  open  political  debate.  The  new  regime  did  not  have 
a  clearly  defined  ideology,  but  it  was  swept  along  by  the  growing 
radical  discourse  among  members  of  the  civilian  left.  Initially,  the 
Derg  tried  to  win  the  support  of  the  Ethiopian  left  by  declaring 


235 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

its  socialist  intentions  in  its  program  statement,  Ethiopia  Tikdem 
(Ethiopia  First).  The  economic  and  social  policies  articulated  in 
this  document  were  populist  in  tone  and  did  little  to  co-opt  the 
civilian  left. 

Once  it  became  clear  that  the  Derg  had  assigned  to  itself  the  van- 
guard role  in  the  revolution,  elements  in  the  civilian  left  began  to 
criticize  the  new  regime.  Chief  among  such  critics  was  the  Ethio- 
pian People's  Revolutionary  Party  (EPRP).  By  1976  the  EPRP 
had  become  engaged  in  a  systematic  campaign  to  undermine  and 
discredit  the  Derg.  The  party  was  successful  in  infiltrating  the 
zemecha,  the  CELU,  and  even  the  Provisional  Office  for  Mass  Or- 
ganizational Affairs  (POMOA),  the  precursor  to  the  Yekatit  '66 
Ideological  School.  At  the  height  of  its  activities,  the  EPRP  included 
students,  intellectuals,  teachers,  merchants,  and  government 
bureaucrats.  It  even  had  sympathizers  within  the  military. 

During  the  late  1970s,  apart  from  the  military,  the  Derg  relied 
for  support  on  the  All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Movement  (whose  Am- 
haric  acronym  was  MEISON).  Rather  than  challenge  the  vanguard 
role  of  the  military,  MEISON  entered  into  a  strategic  alliance  with 
the  Derg,  accepting  its  hegemony  at  least  for  the  short  term.  In 
the  highly  charged  political  climate  of  the  moment,  MEISON  en- 
gaged in  vigorous  debate  with  the  EPRP  over  the  most  appropriate 
strategy  for  reconstructing  Ethiopian  society.  The  debate  between 
the  two  groups  first  took  place  in  their  organizations'  newspapers 
and  in  pamphlets  but  later  moved  to  the  streets  in  the  form  of  bloody 
assassination  and  counterassassination  campaigns.  The  differences 
between  MEISON  and  the  EPRP  were  fundamental.  The  EPRP 
pressed  uncompromisingly  for  a  genuine  "people's  democracy," 
whereas  MEISON  favored  "controlled  democracy"  and  was  pre- 
pared to  give  the  Derg  some  time  to  return  to  the  barracks. 

The  friction  between  the  two  groups  inspired  the  Derg  to  be- 
come more  radical  in  its  ideology  and  public  policies.  The  regime 
determined  that  to  survive  it  would  have  to  alter  its  program  and 
co-opt  or  destroy  its  civilian  opponents.  It  pursued  both  goals  simul- 
taneously by  setting  up  three  organizations:  the  PNDR,  the  Yekatit 
'66  Ideological  School,  and  a  political  advisory  body  called  the  Polit- 
buro (not  to  be  confused  with  the  Political  Bureau  of  the  WPE). 

The  Derg  seemed  hesitant  to  permit  free  and  open  political  com- 
petition, although  it  attempted  to  create  the  impression  of  open- 
ness by  allowing  political  groups  to  operate  in  a  limited  fashion. 
Organizations  resembling  political  parties  were  not  allowed  to  or- 
ganize on  a  mass  basis,  but  they  could  participate  in  politics  through 
representation  on  the  Politburo;  in  fact,  both  the  EPRP  and 
MEISON  were  represented  on  the  Politburo.  Also  represented  were 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


Abyot  Seded  (Revolutionary  Flame),  founded  in  1976  by  mem- 
bers of  the  armed  forces  and  led  by  Mengistu  himself;  the  Waz 
(Labor)  League,  which  claimed  a  working-class  base  and  shared 
the  EPRP's  radical  populist  tendencies;  and  the  Revolutionary 
Struggle  of  the  Ethiopian  Masses  (whose  Amharic  acronym  was 
ECHAAT),  a  largely  Oromo  political  organization.  The  Politburo 
provided  a  forum  where  the  differences  among  the  various  politi- 
cal groupings  could  be  clarified  and  where  the  Derg  could  moni- 
tor the  tendencies  of  its  opponents. 

By  late  1976,  MEISON  had  become  the  most  influential  civil- 
ian group  on  the  Politburo.  However,  the  growing  power  of  Abyot 
Seded  was  also  evident,  as  it  challenged  MEISON  and  the  EPRP 
within  the  Politburo  and  in  grass-roots  institutions  such  as  kebeles 
and  peasant  associations.  To  counter  this  threat,  the  Derg  began 
to  prepare  Abyot  Seded  to  assume  the  role  of  chief  adviser  on  ideo- 
logical, political,  and  organizational  matters.  The  aim  seems  to  have 
been  the  creation  of  a  cadre  of  Abyot  Seded  members  with  suffi- 
cient ideological  sophistication  to  neutralize  all  civilian  opponents, 
including  MEISON.  Abyot  Seded  members  received  ideological 
training  in  the  Soviet  Union,  East  Germany,  and  Cuba.  On  their 
return,  they  were  assigned  the  task  of  politicizing  the  rank  and  file 
of  the  military. 

The  EPRP's  efforts  to  discredit  and  undermine  the  Derg  and 
its  MEISON  collaborators  escalated  in  the  fall  of  1976.  It  targeted 
public  buildings  and  other  symbols  of  state  authority  for  bomb- 
ings and  assassinated  numerous  Abyot  Seded  and  MEISON  mem- 
bers, as  well  as  public  officials  at  all  levels.  The  Derg,  which 
countered  with  its  own  Red  Terror  campaign,  labeled  the  EPRP's 
tactics  the  White  Terror.  Mengistu  asserted  that  all  "progressives" 
were  given  "freedom  of  action"  in  helping  root  out  the  revolu- 
tion's enemies,  and  his  wrath  was  particularly  directed  toward  the 
EPRP.  Peasants,  workers,  public  officials,  and  even  students 
thought  to  be  loyal  to  the  Mengistu  regime  were  provided  with  arms 
to  accomplish  this  task. 

Mengistu 's  decision  resulted  in  fratricidal  chaos.  Many  civilians 
he  armed  were  EPRP  sympathizers  rather  than  supporters  of 
MEISON  or  the  Derg.  Between  early  1977  and  late  1978,  roughly 
5,000  people  were  killed.  In  the  process,  the  Derg  became  estranged 
from  civilian  groups,  including  MEISON.  By  early  1979,  Abyot 
Seded  stood  alone  as  the  only  officially  recognized  political  organi- 
zation; the  others  were  branded  enemies  of  the  revolution.  Grow- 
ing human  rights  violations  prompted  the  United  States,  Ethiopia's 
superpower  patron,  to  counsel  moderation.  However,  the  Derg 


237 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

continued  to  use  extreme  measures  against  its  real  and  perceived 
opponents  to  ensure  its  survival. 

When  he  assumed  office  in  early  1977,  United  States  president 
Jimmy  Carter  curtailed  arms  sales  to  Ethiopia  because  of  its  human 
rights  abuses.  In  response,  Mengistu  severely  curtailed  relations 
with  the  United  States,  ordering  all  United  States  military  personnel 
and  most  embassy  staff  to  leave  the  country.  In  search  of  an  alter- 
nate source  of  military  aid,  Mengistu  eventually  turned  to  the  Soviet 
Union.  However,  before  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies  could  es- 
tablish an  effective  presence  in  Ethiopia,  opposition  groups  stepped 
up  their  campaigns  against  the  Derg. 

In  addition  to  the  urban  guerrilla  warfare  being  waged  by  the 
EPRP,  nationalist  movements  such  as  the  EPLF,  the  OLF,  the 
TPLF,  and  the  Western  Somali  Liberation  Front  (WSLF)  also 
stepped  up  their  military  campaigns  in  the  countryside.  By  the  end 
of  1976,  the  Eritreans  had  made  substantial  gains  in  rural  areas, 
forcing  Ethiopian  troops  into  garrisons  and  urban  centers  in  Eritrea. 
Meanwhile,  armed  groups  such  as  the  OLF  and  the  TPLF  were 
severely  testing  the  regime,  and  in  1977  the  WSLF,  with  the  as- 
sistance of  Somali  troops,  occupied  most  of  the  Ogaden.  The  Ethio- 
pian government,  however,  with  aid  from  the  Soviet  Union,  Cuba, 
and  Eastern  Europe,  reasserted  its  authority  over  contested  areas 
by  the  following  spring  (see  External  and  Internal  Opponents, 
ch.  5). 

Once  it  had  reestablished  control,  the  Derg  resumed  the  crea- 
tion of  institutions  that  would  enhance  its  political  hegemony  and 
legitimacy.  After  having  almost  met  its  demise,  the  Derg  decided 
to  form  a  vanguard  party.  In  June  1978,  the  Derg  announced  that 
Abyot  Seded  would  be  joined  with  the  factional  remnants  of  the 
Waz  League  and  the  Marxist-Leninist  Revolutionary  Organiza- 
tion (whose  Amharic  acronym  was  MALERED),  a  small  splinter 
group  of  MEISON,  in  the  all-embracing  Union  of  Ethiopian 
Marxist-Leninist  Organizations  (whose  Amharic  acronym  was 
EMALEDEH).  The  task  of  the  front  was  to  identify  strategies  for 
the  creation  of  a  vanguard  party.  The  following  year,  Mengistu 
announced  that  he  would  form  a  commission  to  develop  a  frame- 
work for  the  long-awaited  vanguard  party. 

By  1978  all  civilian  opposition  groups  had  been  destroyed  or 
forced  underground.  The  EPRP  had  been  driven  out  of  the  cities 
and  into  the  mountains  of  the  central  highlands,  where  it  tried  un- 
successfully to  develop  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Army 
(EPRA).  The  OLF  had  been  driven  into  refugee  camps  in  Sudan 
and  Somalia;  the  WSLF  had  sought  refuge  in  Somalia;  the  TPLF 
and  the  Ethiopian  Democratic  Union  (EDU),  a  group  of  former 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


nobility  and  officials  of  the  Haile  Selassie  government,  had  been 
pushed  into  Sudan;  and  the  EPLF  had  been  forced  back  into  its 
strongholds  along  the  Sudanese  border.  The  task  then  facing  the 
Derg  was  to  establish  its  popular  legitimacy  among  the  various  eth- 
nic communities  opposed  to  its  rule.  The  most  vigorous  opposi- 
tion came  from  the  EPLF  and  the  TPLF.  The  OLF,  the  EPRP, 
and  the  Afar  Liberation  Front  (ALF)  were  experiencing  revivals 
but  had  yet  to  become  militarily  effective. 

The  Eritrean  Movement 

Eritrea  and  the  Imperial  Regime 

Eritrean  separatism  had  its  roots  in  World  War  II.  In  1941,  in 
the  Battle  of  Keren,  the  Allies  drove  Italian  forces  out  of  Eritrea, 
which  had  been  under  Italy's  rule  since  the  end  of  the  nineteenth 
century.  Administration  of  the  region  was  then  entrusted  to  the 
British  military  until  its  fate  could  be  determined  by  the  Allies. 
Britain,  however,  sought  to  divide  Eritrea  along  religious  lines,  giv- 
ing the  coast  and  highland  areas  to  Ethiopia  and  the  Muslim- 
inhabited  northern  and  western  lowlands  to  British-ruled  Sudan. 

In  1952  the  United  Nations  (UN)  tried  to  satisfy  the  demand 
for  self-determination  by  creating  an  Eritrean-Ethiopian  federa- 
tion. In  1962,  however,  Haile  Selassie  unilaterally  abolished  the 
federation  and  imposed  imperial  rule  throughout  Eritrea. 

Radical  opposition  to  the  incorporation  of  Eritrea  into  Ethiopia 
had  begun  in  1958  with  the  founding  of  the  Eritrean  Liberation 
Movement  (ELM),  an  organization  made  up  mainly  of  students, 
intellectuals,  and  urban  wage  laborers.  The  ELM  engaged  in  clan- 
destine political  activities  intended  to  cultivate  resistance  to  the  cen- 
tralizing policies  of  the  imperial  state.  By  1962,  however,  the  ELM 
had  been  discovered  and  destroyed  by  imperial  authorities. 

Even  as  the  ELM  was  being  neutralized,  a  new  organization  of 
Eritrean  nationalists  was  forming.  In  1960  Eritrean  exiles  in  Cairo 
founded  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front  (ELF).  In  contrast  to  the 
ELM,  from  the  outset  the  ELF  was  bent  on  waging  armed  strug- 
gle on  behalf  of  Eritrean  independence.  The  ELF  was  composed 
mainly  of  Eritrean  Muslims  from  the  rural  lowlands  on  the  western 
edge  of  the  territory.  In  1961  the  ELF's  political  character  was 
vague,  but  radical  Arab  states  such  as  Syria  and  Iraq  sympathized 
with  Eritrea  as  a  predominantly  Muslim  region  struggling  to  es- 
cape oppression  and  imperial  domination.  These  two  countries 
therefore  supplied  military  and  financial  assistance  to  the  ELF. 

The  ELF  initiated  military  operations  in  1961 .  These  operations 
intensified  in  response  to  the  1962  dissolution  of  the  Eritrean- 
Ethiopian  federation.  The  ELF  claimed  that  the  process  by  which 


239 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

this  act  took  place  violated  the  Eritrean  federal  constitution  and 
denied  the  Eritrean  people  their  right  to  self-determination.  By  this 
time,  the  movement  claimed  to  be  multiethnic,  involving  individuals 
from  Eritrea's  nine  major  ethnic  groups. 

The  ELF's  first  several  years  of  guerrilla  activity  in  Eritrea  were 
characterized  by  poor  preparation,  poor  leadership,  and  poor  mili- 
tary performance.  By  1967,  however,  the  ELF  had  gained  con- 
siderable support  among  peasants,  particularly  in  Eritrea's  north 
and  west,  and  around  the  port  city  of  Mitsiwa.  Haile  Selassie  at- 
tempted to  calm  the  growing  unrest  by  visiting  Eritrea  and  assur- 
ing its  inhabitants  that  they  would  be  treated  as  equals  under  the 
new  arrangements.  Although  he  doled  out  offices,  money,  and  titles 
in  early  1967  in  hopes  of  co-opting  would-be  Eritrean  opponents, 
the  resistance  intensified. 

From  the  beginning,  a  serious  problem  confronting  the  ELF  was 
the  development  of  a  base  of  popular  support  and  a  cohesive  mili- 
tary wing.  The  front  divided  Eritrea  into  five  military  regions,  giv- 
ing regional  commanders  considerable  latitude  in  carrying  out  the 
struggle  in  their  respective  zones.  Perhaps  just  as  debilitating  were 
internal  disputes  over  strategy  and  tactics.  These  disagreements 
eventually  led  to  the  ELF's  fragmentation  and  the  founding  in  1972 
of  another  group,  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF). 
The  leadership  of  this  multiethnic  movement  came  to  be  dominated 
by  leftist,  Christian  intellectuals  who  spoke  Tigrinya,  Eritrea's 
predominant  language.  Sporadic  armed  conflict  ensued  between 
the  two  groups  from  1972  to  1974,  even  as  they  fought  the  Ethio- 
pian forces.  The  various  organizations,  each  waging  a  separate  cam- 
paign against  the  Haile  Selassie  regime,  had  become  such  a  serious 
threat  that  the  emperor  declared  martial  law  in  Eritrea  and  deployed 
half  his  army  to  contain  the  struggle.  But  the  Eritrean  insurgents 
fiercely  resisted.  In  January  1974,  the  EPLF  handed  Haile  Selassie's 
forces  a  crushing  defeat  at  Asmera,  severely  affecting  the  army's 
morale  and  exposing  the  crown's  ever- weakening  position. 

Eritrea  and  the  Mengistu  Regime 

After  the  emperor  was  deposed,  the  Derg  stated  its  desire  to 
resolve  the  Eritrean  question  once  and  for  all.  There  were  those 
in  the  Derg's  ranks  who  pressed  for  a  decisive  military  solution, 
while  others  favored  some  form  of  negotiated  settlement.  Influential 
Derg  nationalists  continued  to  endorse,  as  had  the  imperial  regime 
before  them,  the  ideal  of  a  "Greater  Ethiopia,"  a  unitary,  multi- 
ethnic state.  They  pressed  for  a  military  solution  while  claiming  to 
support  the  right  of  all  Ethiopian  nationalities  to  self-determination. 


240 


Government  and  Politics 


This  position  was  first  articulated  in  the  PNDR  in  1976  and  clari- 
fied later  that  year  by  the  Nine  Point  Statement  on  Eritrea.  Sub- 
sequently, the  regime  made  other  attempts  at  dealing,  at  least 
rhetorically  and  symbolically,  with  the  Eritrean  problem. 

In  1976  Osman  Salah  Sabbe,  an  Eritrean  who  had  helped  found 
both  the  ELM  and  the  ELF,  attempted  to  reconcile  the  two  move- 
ments to  form  a  united  front.  But  after  this  effort  failed,  Osman 
formed  a  third  front,  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Popular  Liber- 
ation Front  (ELF-PLF).  In  later  years,  the  Derg  sought  to  exploit 
the  internecine  Eritrean  disputes. 

Disagreements  among  the  various  Eritrean  factions  continued 
throughout  the  1970s  and  1980s.  These  differences  were  mainly 
ideological.  At  the  time,  the  EPLF  and  the  ELF  could  best  be 
described  in  ideological  terms  as  leftist-nationalist  and  the  ELF- 
PLF  as  moderate  nationalist.  Although  the  EPLF  and  the  ELF- 
PLF  consistently  called  for  Eritrea's  independence,  the  main  ELF 
faction  never  closed  the  door  to  the  possibility  of  an  equitable  fed- 
eral union.  As  subtle  as  the  differences  among  these  groups  ap- 
peared, they  were  enough  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  united  front 
against  Addis  Ababa. 

In  addition  to  its  highly  disciplined  combatants,  the  EPLF 
benefited  from  its  broad  base  of  popular  support  and  its  political 
organization.  The  EPLF  became  a  de  facto  government  in  areas 
it  controlled.  It  was  a  highly  structured  political  and  military  in- 
stitution involved  not  only  in  training  its  fighters  militarily  but  also 
in  educating  them  politically.  The  EPLF's  basic  units  for  political 
participation  were  national  unions.  The  Eritrean  national  congress 
was  the  paramount  political  organ  of  the  EPLF  and  was  made  up 
of  the  Central  Committee,  delegates  elected  by  the  national  unions, 
and  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Army  (EPLA).  The  congress 
defined  general  policy  and  elected  the  Central  Committee  (com- 
posed in  the  late  1980s  of  seventy-one  full  members  and  seven  al- 
ternates), which  in  turn  elected  the  general  secretary  and  the 
Political  Bureau's  eight  members.  The  EPLF  charter  called  for  na- 
tional congresses  to  be  held  every  three  years  unless  circumstances 
dictated  otherwise.  Between  congressional  sessions,  the  EPLF  Cen- 
tral Committee  was  the  highest  authority  within  the  front.  It  met 
every  nine  months  and  was  responsible  for  developing  the  EPLF 
political  agenda  and  for  overseeing  policy  implementation.  The  Po- 
litical Bureau  was  the  EPLF's  primary  executive  organ.  It  met  every 
three  months  and  had  broad  administrative  powers.  When  the  Po- 
litical Bureau  was  not  in  session,  the  general  secretary,  aided  by 
a  secretariat,  possessed  wide  executive  authority. 


241 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

In  March  1987,  the  EPLF  held  its  second  congress  in  areas  of 
Eritrea  that  it  controlled.  The  first  congress  had  been  held  ten  years 
earlier  after  Eritrean  forces  had  captured  almost  all  of  Eritrea.  At 
that  time,  the  euphoric  Eritreans  expected  that  their  goal  of  an  in- 
dependent Eritrea  was  about  to  be  realized.  However,  they  subse- 
quently suffered  a  series  of  reversals  from  which  it  took  the  EPLF 
almost  a  decade  to  recover.  Like  that  earlier  meeting,  the  1987 
gathering  was  also  a  unity  congress.  It  resulted  in  resolution  of  the 
difference  between  the  EPLF  and  another  splinter  group,  the 
Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Central  Command  (ELF-CC),  at  the 
time  the  most  prominent  remaining  ELF  faction. 

Following  the  EPLF  unity  congress,  the  organization  stepped 
up  military  pressure  against  the  Ethiopian  regime.  By  March  1988, 
the  EPLF  had  scored  some  impressive  battlefield  successes.  The 
EPLF  broke  out  of  entrenched  positions  in  the  Nakfa  area  of  north- 
ern Eritrea  and  occupied  the  important  garrison  town  of  Afabet. 
Afabet's  fall  forced  the  Ethiopian  army  to  evacuate  the  urban  centers 
of  Barca,  Teseney,  Barentu,  and  Akordat.  The  government  also 
ordered  all  foreign  relief  workers  out  of  Eritrea  and  Tigray,  declared 
states  of  emergency  in  both  regions,  and  redeployed  troops  from 
the  Ogaden  to  Eritrea.  The  highly  disciplined  Eritrean  forces  faced 
much  larger  and  better  equipped  Ethiopian  units,  but  the  Ethio- 
pian troops,  many  of  whom  were  teenagers,  had  become  war  weary 
and  demoralized.  By  early  1991,  the  EPLF  controlled  most  of 
Eritrea  except  for  some  urban  centers. 

The  most  significant  attempt  to  address  the  Eritrean  issue  was 
embodied  in  the  1987  constitution,  which  allowed  for  the  possibil- 
ity of  regional  autonomy.  At  its  inaugural  session,  the  National 
Shengo  acted  on  this  provision  and  endorsed  a  plan  for  regional 
autonomy  (see  Regional  and  Local  Government,  this  ch.).  Among 
autonomous  regions,  the  plan  accorded  Eritrea  the  greatest  degree 
of  autonomy.  In  particular,  the  plan  assigned  Eritrea's  regional 
government  broader  powers  than  those  assigned  to  the  other  four 
autonomous  regions,  especially  in  the  areas  of  industrial  develop- 
ment and  education.  Under  the  plan,  Eritrea  also  was  distinguished 
from  other  autonomous  regions  in  that  it  was  to  have  three  ad- 
ministrative subregions:  one  in  the  north,  made  up  of  Akordat, 
Keren,  and  Sahel  awrajas;  one  in  the  south-central  part  of  histori- 
cal Eritrea,  consisting  of  Hamasen,  Mitsiwa,  Seraye,  and  Akale 
Guzay  awrajas;  and  one  encompassing  the  western  awraja  of  Gashe 
na  Setit.  By  creating  Aseb  Autonomous  Region,  the  government 
in  Addis  Ababa  appeared  to  be  attempting  to  ensure  itself  a  se- 
cure path  to  the  Red  Sea.  Aseb  Autonomous  Region  comprised 


242 


United  Nations  Commission  to  Eritrea,  1950.  The  commissioner  listens  to 
representatives  of  the  Muslim  League  qfMitsiwa  argue  for  Eritrean  independence. 

Courtesy  United  Nations 

Aseb  awraja  of  historical  Eritrea,  along  with  parts  of  eastern  Welo 
and  Tigray  regions. 

By  1991,  however,  administrative  reorganization  in  the  north- 
central  part  of  the  country  was  a  reality  only  on  paper.  Since  1988 
the  area  had  been  under  a  state  of  emergency.  The  regime  had 
been  unable  to  establish  the  necessary  party  and  administrative  in- 
frastructure to  implement  the  plan,  mostly  because  of  the  escala- 
tion of  opposition  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray  since  the  promulgation 
of  the  1987  constitution.  The  EPLF,  for  example,  rejected  the  re- 
organization plan,  terming  it  "old  wine  in  new  bottles."  The  ELF 
expressed  particular  outrage  over  the  creation  of  Aseb  Autonomous 
Region,  viewing  it  as  another  WPE  attempt  to  annex  a  significant 
part  of  the  historical  colony  of  Eritrea  to  Ethiopia.  The  ELF  called 
for  the  Ethiopian  government  to  agree  to  immediate  negotiations 
without  preconditions  with  a  unified  Eritrean  delegation. 

Even  as  the  EPLF  recorded  its  most  significant  battiefield  suc- 
cess in  1988-89,  a  rift  was  developing  between  that  organization 
and  ELF  splinter  groups.  This  rift  revolved  around  religion,  as  the 
ELF's  conservative,  primarily  Islamic  elements  came  to  distrust 
the  EPLF's  predominantly  Christian  leadership.  The  EPLF  also 
espoused  a  much  more  explicitly  socialist  program  than  did  the 


243 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

ELF  factions.  To  encourage  further  divisions  among  the  Eritreans, 
the  Mengistu  regime  in  late  1988  met  with  five  former  ELF  mem- 
bers (who  claimed  to  represent  750,000  Eritreans)  to  accept  their 
proposal  for  the  creation  of  an  autonomous  Eritrean  region  in  the 
predominantly  Muslim  lowlands.  These  five  men  rejected  the 
EPLF's  claim  that  it  represented  all  Eritreans.  Mengistu  forwarded 
the  proposal  to  the  National  Shengo  for  consideration,  but  the  re- 
gime collapsed  before  action  could  be  taken. 

The  Tigrayan  Movement 

Tigrayan  opposition  to  the  Ethiopian  government  started  dur- 
ing Emperor  Menelik's  reign.  In  1896  Menelik,  who  opposed  Italy's 
territorial  designs  on  Ethiopia,  deployed  an  80,000-man  army  into 
Tigray  without  adequate  provisions,  thereby  forcing  the  soldiers 
to  live  off  the  land.  According  to  Tigrayan  nationalists,  the  Tigray 
who  died  protecting  their  homes  against  Menelik's  troops  outnum- 
bered the  defeated  Italians  who  died  at  the  Battle  of  Adwa  that  year. 
Forty  years  later,  when  fascist  Italy's  forces  invaded  Ethiopia,  the 
main  battlefield  was  again  in  Tigray,  and  once  again  the  inhabi- 
tants suffered.  In  1943,  after  the  Allied  Powers  had  defeated  Italy 
and  Haile  Selassie  had  returned  to  Ethiopia,  Tigrayan  peasants 
revolted  against  the  imperial  regime  (see  Discontent  in  Tigray, 
ch.  1).  Government  forces,  supported  by  British  units,  suppressed 
the  revolt.  The  emperor  then  imposed  a  harsh  peace  on  Tigray. 

The  first  sign  of  open  resistance  to  the  Mengistu  regime  in  Tigray 
(where  the  rebellion  became  known  as  the  Weyane,  the  same  as 
the  1943  revolt)  occurred  in  October  1974.  At  that  time,  the  Derg 
ordered  Ras  Mengesha  Seyoum — governor  general  of  Tigray, 
member  of  the  Tigrayan  royal  family,  and  grandson-in-law  of  the 
emperor — to  relinquish  his  office  and  surrender  to  the  authorities. 
Rather  than  submit,  he  fled  to  the  bush  and  organized  the  Tigray 
Liberation  Organization  (TLO).  The  TLO  operated  in  clandes- 
tine political  cells  and  engaged  in  a  program  of  systematic  agita- 
tion. During  the  tumultuous  mid-1970s,  the  TLO  established  cells 
in  various  parts  of  the  country.  In  early  1975,  Mengesha  left  Tigray 
and,  with  other  aristocrats,  formed  the  Ethiopian  Democratic  Union 
(EDU).  Members  of  the  TLO  who  remained  in  Tigray  and  who 
came  under  the  influence  of  the  EPLF  formed  the  Tigray  People's 
Liberation  Front  (TPLF),  whose  goals  included  the  overthrow  of 
the  Mengistu  regime,  the  establishment  of  a  "more  democratic" 
government,  and  the  removal  of  all  foreign  military  bases  from  Ethio- 
pia (see  The  Tigray,  ch.  5).  The  TPLF  also  condemned  Mengesha, 
accepted  Marxism-Leninism,  and  argued  for  an  independent 
Eritrean-Tigrayan  federation.  Eventually,  the  TPLF  neutralized  the 


244 


Government  and  Politics 


TLO  by  killing  many  of  its  leaders  and  by  jailing  and  executing 
others. 

At  the  time,  the  TPLF  shared  the  field  with  the  more  conserva- 
tive Tigray-based  EDU  and  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolution- 
ary Party  (EPRP).  However,  the  Red  Terror  had  decimated  both 
of  these  organizations,  and  by  1978  they  had  ceased  to  be  a  factor. 
The  TPLF  was  also  severely  weakened  but,  with  the  assistance  of 
the  EPLF,  developed  into  an  effective  fighting  force.  Its  ranks  were 
expanded  initially  by  the  absorption  of  former  EPRP  members. 

Beginning  in  1980,  the  TPLF  sought  to  establish  local  self- 
administration  in  areas  under  its  control.  The  basic  administra- 
tive unit  was  the  people's  council  (baito),  which  was  typically  in- 
troduced in  two  stages.  In  the  first  stage,  representatives  from  mass 
associations  were  elected  to  form  the  provisional  administrative 
council.  The  second  stage  involved  the  establishment  of  a  full- 
fledged  people's  council.  Council  members  were  elected  to  two- 
year  terms.  All  members  of  a  number  of  mass  associations  who 
were  at  least  sixteen  years  of  age  had  the  right  to  vote  and  to  stand 
for  election  to  a  people's  council.  People's  councils  were  responsi- 
ble for  local  administrative,  economic,  and  social  affairs.  By  late 
1989,  however,  this  structure  had  not  grown  much  beyond  the  pilot 
stage  in  most  of  Tigray. 

In  the  1980s,  the  TPLF  drew  almost  exclusively  from  among 
the  Tigrayan  population  of  north-central  Ethiopia  for  its  support, 
although  it  claimed  to  be  dedicated  toward  building  a  united  na- 
tional front  representing  all  groups  and  nationalities  struggling 
against  the  Mengistu  regime.  On  May  8,  1984,  the  TPLF  issued 
a  proposal  calling  for  the  formation  of  a  united  front  based  on  a 
"minimum  program,"  whose  sole  objective  was  the  overthrow  of 
the  Mengistu  regime.  By  1984  the  TPLF  was  active  throughout 
Tigray  and  in  parts  of  Welo  and  Gojam.  Although  its  political  pro- 
gram continued  to  have  a  populist  orientation,  the  dominant  ideo- 
logues within  the  organization  claimed  to  be  dedicated  to  constructing 
the  Marxist-Leninist  League  of  Tigray.  Observers  likened  this 
group's  strident  rhetoric  to  that  of  Albania's  Stalinist  ideologues. 

On  the  eve  of  its  thirteenth  anniversary  in  February  1988,  the 
TPLF  was  engaged  in  its  largest  offensive  against  Ethiopian  forces. 
Over  the  next  year  and  a  half,  the  TPLF  captured  all  of  Tigray, 
including  urban  centers  such  as  Aksum,  Inda  Silase,  and  Mekele. 
By  May  1989,  the  Ethiopian  army  had  withdrawn  completely  from 
Tigray. 

The  TPLF's  efforts  to  develop  a  united  front  began  to  bear  fruit 
just  as  its  major  offensive  was  unfolding.  In  January  1989,  it  entered 


245 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

into  an  alliance  with  the  Ethiopian  People's  Democratic  Movement 
(EPDM),  an  organization  composed  mainly  of  Amhara  from  Welo, 
Gonder,  and  the  northern  part  of  Shewa,  many  of  whom  had  once 
belonged  to  the  EPRP.  The  two  groups  had  cooperated  in  mili- 
tary activities  for  several  years,  but  they  had  not  had  a  formal  alli- 
ance. It  was  estimated  that  by  the  fall  of  1989,  there  were  2.5  million 
people  in  EPDM-controlled  areas.  The  EPDM,  like  the  TPLF, 
supported  the  right  of  all  nationalities  to  self-determination  and 
the  formation  of  a  democratic  state  once  the  Mengestu  regime  had 
been  overthrown. 

The  TPLF  and  EPDM  called  their  alliance  the  Ethiopian  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Democratic  Front  (EPRDF).  The  EPRDF 's 
charter  borrowed  from  the  TPLF  charter.  It  called  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  democratic  government,  the  elimination  of  the  last 
vestiges  of  feudalism  and  imperialism,  the  formation  of  a  genuine 
people's  government  based  on  people's  councils,  the  guarantee  of 
basic  human  and  civil  rights,  and  self-determination  for  all  op- 
pressed nationalities.  Subsequently,  several  other  dissident  groups, 
some  created  specifically  by  the  EPRDF,  also  joined  the  alliance. 

By  the  fall  of  1989,  the  EPRDF  had  moved  from  its  strongholds 
in  Tigray,  Welo,  and  Gonder  and  threatened  parts  of  northern 
Shewa.  At  the  time,  the  force  seemed  more  capable  of  pushing  back 
the  beleaguered  Ethiopian  troops  than  of  setting  up  any  type  of 
permanent  political  structures.  During  a  six- week  period  begin- 
ning in  August  1989,  the  EPRDF  wounded  or  captured  an  esti- 
mated 20,000  government  soldiers,  seized  vast  stocks  of  military 
hardware,  and  pushed  the  battle  line  between  the  two  sides  down 
to  northern  Shewa.  In  part,  these  advances  were  facilitated  by  the 
demoralization  of  the  Ethiopian  military  following  the  abortive  coup 
of  May  1989  (see  Regime  Stability  and  Peace  Negotiations,  this 
ch.).  Some  Ethiopian  troops  defected  to  the  opposition,  significantly 
improving  the  military  capabilities  of  the  EPRDF. 

Other  Movements  and  Fronts 

The  EPLF,  the  TPLF,  the  EPDM,  and  the  EPRDF  were  the 
most  militarily  significant  opposition  movements  challenging  the 
Mengistu  regime  in  1991 .  In  addition,  several  other  groups,  com- 
posed mainly  of  ethnic  Oromo,  Afar,  and  Somali,  were  also  active. 

Oromo  Groups 

The  Oromo,  representing  about  40  percent  of  the  population, 
occupy  areas  in  south  and  central  Ethiopia  that  only  became  part 
of  modern  Ethiopia  during  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth 
centuries.  The  people  in  these  areas  largely  became  tenants  on  their 


246 


Government  and  Politics 


own  land  as  the  empire  consolidated  its  rule.  Many  Oromo  resented 
the  alien  rule  of  Amhara  and  Tigray  from  the  highland  core  of  the 
empire.  Haile  Selassie  tried  to  win  Oromo  loyalty  by  developing 
alliances  with  key  Oromo  leaders.  Although  this  strategy  enabled 
the  emperor  to  co-opt  many  Oromo  into  the  imperial  system,  it 
failed  to  end  Oromo  resistance.  Examples  of  this  opposition  to  Addis 
Ababa  included  the  Azebo-Raya  revolt  of  1928-30;  the  1936  Oromo 
Independence  Movement;  and  the  establishment  in  1965  of  the 
Mecha-Tulema,  an  Oromo  self-help  organization. 

From  1964  to  1970,  a  revolt  in  Bale  presented  the  most  serious 
challenge  to  the  Ethiopian  government.  During  that  time,  separate 
Oromo  rebel  groups  in  Bale  conducted  hit-and-run  raids  against 
military  garrisons  and  police  stations.  Until  1969  the  Somali  govern- 
ment provided  military  assistance  to  these  rebels  as  part  of  its  strat- 
egy of  reestablishing  a  "Greater  Somalia."  In  addition,  Oromo 
rebels  attempted  to  coordinate  their  military  activities  with  the 
Western  Somali  Liberation  Front.  After  Mahammad  Siad  Barre 
took  over  the  Somali  government  in  1969,  the  Oromo  rebels  lost 
Somali  support  and  found  it  impossible  to  sustain  their  campaigns 
in  southeastern  Ethiopia.  In  1970  the  rebels  agreed  to  a  truce  with 
the  Haile  Selassie  regime. 

In  1973  Oromo  dissidents  formed  the  Oromo  Liberation  Front 
(OLF),  an  organization  dedicated  to  the  "total  liberation  of  the 
entire  Oromo  nation  from  Ethiopian  colonialism"  (see  The  Oromo, 
ch.  5).  The  OLF  began  an  offensive  against  the  Ethiopian  govern- 
ment in  Harerge  in  1974,  but  sustained  activities  did  not  begin 
until  1976.  The  OLF  subsequently  extended  its  sphere  of  activity 
to  Welega. 

Young,  educated  Oromo  from  Arsi  initially  composed  the  OLF 
leadership,  but  by  1976  the  organization  claimed  a  broad-based 
leadership  with  a  following  from  all  Oromo  areas.  Beyond  national 
liberation,  the  OLF's  program  called  for  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  Democratic  Republic  of  Oromia,  which  would  include 
all  of  central  and  southern  Ethiopia,  excluding  the  Ogaden  and 
Omo  River  regions. 

In  late  1989,  the  OLF  had  approximately  200  combatants  in 
Harerge  and  about  5,000  in  Welega.  OLF  troops  were  poorly  armed 
and  unable  to  pose  a  serious  threat  to  the  Ethiopian  army.  In  ad- 
dition, the  OLF  had  been  unable  to  mobilize  popular  support 
against  the  Ethiopian  government.  This  failure  resulted  from  the 
OLF's  inability  to  organize  an  effective  antigovernment  movement, 
to  convince  the  majority  of  Oromo  people  that  separatism  was  a 
viable  political  alternative,  or  to  sustain  military  operations  in  the 
geographically  separated  areas  of  Welega,  Arsi,  and  Harerge.  In 


247 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

spite  of  these  difficulties,  in  1989  the  OLF  announced  several  mili- 
tary successes  against  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces,  especially  in 
Asosa,  a  town  on  the  Sudanese-Ethiopian  border. 

On  the  political  side,  in  February  1988  the  OLF  convened  its 
first  national  congress  at  Begi  in  newly  created  Asosa  Region.  Apart 
from  expressing  support  for  the  EPLF  and  the  TPLF,  the  congress 
condemned  the  Mengistu  regime  and  voiced  opposition  to  the 
government's  villagization  and  resettlement  policies. 

Afar  Groups 

The  Afar  people,  numbering  about  3  million  in  Ethiopia,  re- 
side in  the  area  bordering  Eritrea,  Djibouti,  and  Somalia.  Although 
there  were  other  factions  claiming  to  represent  the  Afar,  the  most 
prominent  organization  was  the  Afar  Liberation  Front  (ALF;  also 
called  the  Afar  Sultanate  Liberation  Front),  headed  by  Ali  Mirah. 
The  ALF  was  dedicated  to  maintaining  the  political,  cultural,  and 
religious  autonomy  of  the  Afar  people.  Ali  Mirah  directed  his  move- 
ment's sporadic  activities  from  Saudi  Arabia  and  Kuwait.  The  ALF 
was  one  of  the  few  opposition  movements  to  express  some  interest 
in  Mengistu 's  plan  for  creating  autonomous  regions,  primarily  be- 
cause most  Afar  inhabited  the  area  that  was  to  become  Aseb  Auton- 
omous Region. 

Somali  Groups 

Somali  guerrilla  activity  in  the  Ogaden  and  in  the  Haud  area 
east  of  Harer  flared  sporadically  after  Somalia  gained  its  indepen- 
dence in  1960,  but  the  guerrilla  activity  remained  essentially  a  police 
concern  until  a  border  war  erupted  in  1964.  When  he  seized  power 
in  Mogadishu  in  1969,  Siad  Barre  thwarted  attempts  at  an  under- 
standing between  Ethiopia  and  Somalia.  He  pledged  to  renew  ef- 
forts to  establish  a  "Greater  Somalia"  that  would  encompass  about 
one- third  of  Ethiopia's  territory.  Encouraged  by  the  breakdown 
of  authority  in  Addis  Ababa  after  the  1974  overthrow  of  Haile 
Selassie,  Somalia  provided  materiel,  moral,  and  organizational  sup- 
port to  insurgent  movements  in  the  Ogaden  and  southern  Ethiopia. 

The  Western  Somali  Liberation  Front  (WSLF),  which  operated 
in  the  Ogaden,  supported  the  "Greater  Somalia"  concept.  The 
Somali  Abo  Liberation  Front  (SALF)  maintained  links  to  the 
WSLF.  Its  sphere  of  operations  was  in  Bale,  Sidamo,  and  Arsi, 
where  it  advocated  union  with  Somalia  or  the  creation  of  an  in- 
dependent state.  Somalia  equipped  both  groups  with  Soviet  arms; 
both  also  received  aid  and  training  from  various  Arab  and  com- 
munist nations,  including  Cuba. 


248 


Government  and  Politics 


After  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War,  the  WSLF  was  routed,  and  its 
troops  flocked  to  camps  in  Somalia  (see  The  Somali,  ch.  5).  The 
Somali  government  subsequently  forbade  the  WSLF  to  use  its  ter- 
ritory to  launch  attacks  into  Ethiopia.  By  1989  the  WSLF  had  ceased 
to  be  an  effective  guerrilla  organization  within  Ethiopia.  Siad 
Barre's  decision  to  restrict  the  WSLF  led  to  the  formation  of  a 
WSLF  splinter  group,  the  Ogaden  National  Liberation  Front 
(ONLF),  whose  headquarters  were  in  Kuwait.  Elements  of  the 
ONLF  slipped  back  into  the  Ogaden  in  1988  but  failed  to  gener- 
ate a  significant  military  capability. 

Leftist  Groups 

Although  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Party  (EPRP) 
and  the  All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Movement  (whose  Amharic  acro- 
nym was  MEISON)  were  crippled  during  the  Red  Terror,  they 
were  not  completely  eliminated.  In  1989  the  EPRP  had  its  main 
base  in  Sudan.  It  claimed  to  have  had  its  ranks  augmented  in  the 
late  1980s  by  20,000  peasants  fleeing  villagization  in  Shewa.  The 
EPRP  and  MEISON  continued  to  exist  as  political  organizations, 
but  they  appeared  to  have  little  military  significance. 

Regime  Stability  and  Peace  Negotiations 

The  WPE  regime's  attempt  to  create  conditions  for  popular  ac- 
ceptance of  its  legitimacy  failed.  Testimony  to  this  was  the  attempted 
coup  that  began  on  May  16,  1989.  The  coup  was  the  result  of 
months  of  planning  by  senior  officers,  some  of  whom  may  have 
been  members  of  the  Free  Ethiopia  Soldiers'  Movement,  an  op- 
position group  that  involved  active-duty  military  officers  and  former 
officers  in  exile.  The  coup  began  shortly  after  Mengistu  left  for 
a  state  visit  to  East  Germany.  Top  generals  invited  colleagues  to 
attend  a  meeting  at  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense,  where  they 
delivered  an  ultimatum  to  the  defense  minister,  Major  General 
Haile  Giorgis  Habte  Mariam,  to  join  them  or  be  jailed.  Haile 
Giorgis  refused  and  was  shot  dead.  The  shots  were  heard  by  two 
senior  officers  loyal  to  Mengistu,  who  ordered  army  tanks  to  en- 
circle the  ministry  and  guard  the  road  to  the  airport. 

Officers  commanding  units  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray  also  joined  in 
the  coup.  They  initially  seized  the  Asmera  radio  station  and  is- 
sued a  call  to  the  "broad  masses"  to  join  in  the  effort  to  bring  down 
the  "tyrannical  and  dictatorial  regime  of  Mengistu."  However, 
Mengistu  returned  to  the  country  and,  with  the  support  of  the 
Presidential  Guard  and  other  loyal  troops,  regained  control  three 
days  after  the  coup  began. 


249 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  plotters'  aim  had  been  to  establish  a  transitional  military 
government.  Exiled  supporters  of  the  Free  Ethiopia  Soldiers'  Move- 
ment claimed  that  the  coup-makers  planned  to  negotiate  a  settle- 
ment in  Eritrea,  establish  a  ruling  council,  and  return  the  military 
to  their  barracks.  Senior  officers  had  become  desperate  for  a  polit- 
ical settlement  of  the  wars  raging  in  the  north.  Pamphlets  express- 
ing their  discontent  had  been  distributed  to  the  military  rank  and 
file  by  junior  and  middle  ranking  officers  sympathetic  to  their  cause. 
The  new  leader  reportedly  was  to  have  been  Major  General  Seyoum 
Mekonnen,  the  former  head  of  military  intelligence. 

To  wipe  out  his  enemies  in  the  military,  Mengistu  purged  the 
officer  corps.  At  least  twelve  generals  were  executed  or  committed 
suicide  rather  than  be  captured,  and  300  to  400  officers  suspected 
of  being  involved  in  the  coup  were  arrested.  Nearly  all  generals, 
division  commanders,  and  political  commissars  assigned  to  units 
stationed  in  the  north  reportedly  were  detained.  These  individuals 
were  replaced  by  Mengistu  loyalists,  many  of  whom  lacked  ex- 
perience as  military  leaders. 

The  attempted  coup  and  continuing  problems  related  to  war, 
drought,  and  famine  caused  considerable  instability  in  the  WPE's 
upper  levels.  Council  of  State  members  became  increasingly  criti- 
cal of  Mengistu 's  policies,  and  some  even  suggested  that  he  step 
down.  However,  Mengistu  mustered  enough  support  to  retain 
power.  At  the  same  time,  by  mid- 1989  the  success  of  opposition 
forces,  the  Soviet  Union's  refusal  to  increase  military  assistance 
to  Ethiopia,  and  pressure  from  Moscow  had  forced  Mengistu  to 
seek  negotiated  settlements  to  Ethiopia's  various  wars.  The  loss 
of  East  German  military  support  because  of  the  democratization 
movement  that  occurred  later  in  the  year  also  softened  the  govern- 
ment's  stance  toward  negotiations. 

On  June  5,  1989,  the  National  Shengo,  in  a  special  session,  en- 
dorsed a  proposal  calling  for  unconditional  peace  talks  with  the 
EPLF.  The  EPLF  accepted,  and  the  two  sides  agreed  that  former 
United  States  president  Jimmy  Carter  would  mediate  the  negoti- 
ations. The  first  talks  were  held  at  the  Carter  Presidential  Center 
of  Emory  University  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  in  early  September.  WPE 
Central  Committee  member  Ashagre  Yigletu  headed  the  Ethio- 
pian delegation,  and  Al  Amin  Muhammad  Sayyid  led  the  Eritrean 
team.  The  two  sides  agreed  on  several  procedural  issues  and  set 
the  next  round  of  talks  for  November  1989  in  Nairobi,  Kenya. 

At  the  second  meeting,  additional  procedural  issues  were  re- 
solved, and  former  Tanzanian  president  Julius  K.  Nyerere  was 
asked  to  co-chair  further  talks  with  former  President  Carter.  The 
most  difficult  issue  resolved  in  the  eight-day  talks  was  determining 


250 


Commuters  line  up  for  a  bus  at  a  busy  pick-up  point  in  Addis  Ababa. 

Courtesy  United  Nations  (Ray  Witlin) 

who  would  serve  as  international  observers  for  the  main  negotia- 
tions. Seven  observers  were  invited — each  side  had  two  unrestricted 
choices,  and  three  others  were  chosen  by  mutual  consent.  The  par- 
ties also  concluded  that  additional  observers  could  be  invited  later 
upon  mutual  agreement.  At  the  end  of  the  session,  six  observers 
had  accepted  invitations:  Kenya,  Senegal,  Sudan,  Tanzania,  Zim- 
babwe, and  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  A  seventh 
invitation  was  proposed  for  the  UN,  but  because  Ethiopia,  a  UN 
member,  refused  to  endorse  the  idea,  the  UN  declined  to  partici- 
pate. Subsequent  meetings  in  Washington  in  October  1990  and 
February  1991 ,  chaired  by  United  States  Assistant  Secretary  of  State 
for  African  Affairs  Herman  Cohen,  failed  to  resolve  this  issue.  Even 
so,  both  sides  agreed  to  continue  their  dialogue,  with  the  next  meet- 
ing tentatively  scheduled  for  May  in  London. 

The  Ethiopian  regime  also  agreed  to  peace  negotiations  with  the 
TPLF,  to  be  convened  by  the  Italian  government.  Preliminary  talks 
began  in  Rome  on  November  4,  1989.  Ashagre  Yigletu  led  the  Ethio- 
pian team,  and  Central  Committee  chairman  Meles  Zenawi  headed 
the  TPLF  delegation.  Because  its  troops  were  advancing  on  the 
battlefield,  the  TPLF  refrained  from  making  a  cease-fire  a  precon- 
dition for  participating  in  the  talks.  The  TPLF  called  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  provisional  government  made  up  of  representatives 


251 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

from  all  major  nationality  groups  and  political  organizations.  The 
main  task  of  this  provisional  government  would  be  to  draft  a 
democratic  constitution  and  prepare  for  free  elections.  Before  the 
talks  began,  the  Ethiopian  government  rejected  the  idea  of  a  provi- 
sional government,  claiming  that  the  Ethiopian  people  had  approved 
the  1987  constitution  in  a  fair  referendum  and  that  a  popularly 
elected  parliament  had  put  the  new  government  in  place. 

The  first  round  of  talks  lasted  one  week  and  ended  with  agree- 
ment only  on  procedural  points.  Although  the  TPLF  had  called 
for  a  national  united  front,  it  represented  only  itself  at  the  Rome 
talks.  It  suggested,  however,  that  the  main  item  on  the  agenda 
should  be  its  peace  proposal.  The  Ethiopian  delegation  rejected 
this  idea  but  offered  no  counterproposal. 

The  second  round  of  preliminary  talks  opened  in  Rome  on  De- 
cember 12,  1989.  The  two  sides  reached  an  agreement  whereby 
Italy  and  Kenya  would  act  as  mediators  and  Nigeria,  Sweden, 
Sudan,  and  Uganda  would  act  as  observers  in  future  peace  negotia- 
tions. The  Italian  minister  of  foreign  affairs  announced  that  the 
third  round  of  preliminary  talks  would  open  in  Rome  on  March  20, 
1990. 

Unfortunately,  the  Ethiopian  delegation  terminated  these  dis- 
cussions nine  days  after  they  began.  According  to  rebel  spokes- 
men, the  talks  failed  because  Ethiopia  insisted  that  the  TPLF  deal 
only  with  questions  pertaining  "to  the  autonomous  region  of 
Tigray"  rather  than  with  Ethiopia  as  a  whole.  Moreover,  Ethio- 
pia refused  to  accept  a  joint  TPLF-EPDM  delegation  at  the  main 
peace  talks.  The  TPLF  maintained  that  the  EPDM,  its  ally  in  war, 
also  should  be  its  ally  in  peace.  As  a  result  of  these  differences, 
the  negotiating  process  between  the  TPLF  and  Ethiopia  ended. 

On  the  military  front,  the  TPLF  pressed  its  offensive  through- 
out the  fall  of  1989.  By  the  beginning  of  1990,  its  advances  had 
bogged  down,  and  the  Ethiopian  army  had  begun  a  counteroffen- 
sive.  By  mid-June  1990,  however,  the  TPLF,  operating  as  part 
of  the  EPRDF,  had  taken  up  positions  within  160  kilometers  of 
Addis  Ababa.  By  contrast,  the  EPLF  had  reduced  its  military  oper- 
ations over  the  same  period,  perhaps  to  regroup.  In  February  1990, 
however,  the  EPLF  mounted  a  major  drive  aimed  at  capturing  the 
port  city  of  Mitsiwa,  the  entry  point  for  much  of  Ethiopia's  food 
and  military  supplies.  By  mid-February  the  EPLF  had  overrun  the 
port  and  severed  the  traffic  that  flowed  from  Mitsiwa  via  Asmera 
to  the  strategic  garrison  town  of  Keren.  A  few  months  later, 
however,  Mitsiwa  resumed  operation  in  accordance  with  an  agree- 
ment between  the  EPLF  and  government  forces.  By  the  end  of  the 
year,  the  EPLF  had  started  conducting  military  operations  in  the 


252 


Government  and  Politics 


vicinity  of  the  Dahlak  Islands  and  initiated  an  offensive  toward  the 
port  of  Aseb. 

Mass  Media 

Before  and  after  the  1974  revolution,  the  government  controlled 
Ethiopia's  mass  communications.  However,  after  1974  the  ideo- 
logical orientation  of  mass  media  in  Ethiopia  underwent  a  substan- 
tial change  insofar  as  they  became  vehicles  for  spreading  Marxist 
dogma. 

The  Ministry  of  Information  and  National  Guidance  published 
two  daily  newspapers:  the  English-language  Ethiopian  Herald,  with 
a  circulation  of  6,000,  and  the  Amharic-language  Addis  Zemen,  with 
a  circulation  of  37,000.  The  ministry  also  printed  Hibret,  a  Tigrinya- 
language  newspaper  published  in  Asmera  that  had  a  daily  circula- 
tion of  4,000.  The  ministry  closely  controlled  the  contents  of  these 
publications,  and  it  used  their  editorial  pages  to  analyze  certain 
events  and  policies  from  the  perspective  of  scientific  socialism. 

There  were  about  a  dozen  periodicals  published  in  Ethiopia.  The 
WPE  issued  Serto  Ader,  an  Amharic-language  newsletter  with  a 
weekly  circulation  of  about  100,000.  Two  other  periodicals  were 
the  magazine  Yekatit  Quarterly  and  the  ideological  journal  Meskerem 
(circulation  100,000).  Both  publications  were  printed  in  English 
as  well  as  in  Amharic.  Marxist-Leninist  in  tone,  the  Yekatit  Quar- 
terly reported  mainly  on  the  "accomplishments  of  the  revolution." 
Meskerem  was  viewed  specifically  as  an  instrument  of  political  edu- 
cation. 

Foreign  Policy 

The  foreign  relations  of  the  modern  Ethiopian  state  were  driven 
by  the  government's  quest  to  establish  this  multiethnic  polity  as 
a  viable  nation- state  and  to  maintain  its  territorial  integrity.  In  many 
respects,  then,  the  foreign  policy  pursued  by  the  leaders  of  post- 
revolutionary  Ethiopia  was  consistent  with  the  foreign  policy  of  the 
old  imperial  regime.  The  aspect  that  changed  from  one  era  to  the 
next  was  Ethiopia's  ideological  alignment.  Whereas  the  regime  of 
Emperor  Haile  Selassie  had  relied  heavily  on  the  patronage  of  the 
United  States,  that  of  President  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam  cast  its 
fate  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Both  the  pre-  and  post- 1974  govern- 
ments used  economic  and  military  aid  from  their  respective  super- 
power patrons  to  augment  their  own  meager  material  resources, 
thus  enhancing  the  ability  of  the  regime  to  pursue  not  only  certain 
foreign  policy  objectives  but  also  specific  domestic  policies.  Anal- 
ysis of  Ethiopia's  foreign  policy,  both  past  and  contemporary,  sug- 
gests that,  rather  than  serving  as  the  pawns  of  one  superpower  or 


253 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

another,  Ethiopia's  leaders  consistently  placed  their  perceptions  of 
what  was  best  for  Ethiopia  before  all  else. 

Diplomacy  and  State  Building  in  Imperial  Ethiopia 

As  one  of  only  two  African  states  that  have  never  been  perma- 
nently colonized  (the  other  is  Liberia),  Ethiopia  has  a  long  diplo- 
matic tradition.  Tewodros  II,  who  reigned  in  the  mid-nineteenth 
century,  was  the  first  modern  Ethiopian  leader  to  try  to  develop  a 
foreign  policy  that  transcended  the  Horn  region  (see  The  Making 
of  Modern  Ethiopia,  ch.  1).  His  successor,  Yohannis  IV,  followed 
a  less  dynamic  course  and  was  greatly  troubled  by  European  ex- 
pansionism in  general  and  penetration  by  Italy  in  particular.  Menelik 
II,  who  succeeded  Yohannis  in  1889,  failed  to  find  a  peaceful  solu- 
tion to  Italy's  encroachments.  He  had  greater  success,  however,  in 
the  military  sphere,  defeating  the  Italian  army  at  Adwa  in  1896. 

Menelik  died  in  1913,  and  it  was  not  until  1930  that  another 
strong  emperor,  Haile  Selassie  I,  assumed  the  throne.  Haile  Selassie 
quickly  demonstrated  that  he  was  committed  to  the  creation  of  a 
strong,  modern,  bureaucratic  empire  that  would  command  unques- 
tioned international  respect.  As  early  as  1923,  while  serving  as  re- 
gent, he  negotiated  Ethiopia's  admission  into  the  League  of  Nations. 
The  Italian  occupation  of  Ethiopia  between  1936  and  1941  briefly 
halted  his  efforts  to  establish  Ethiopia's  position  in  the  world  com- 
munity (see  Italian  Rule  and  World  War  II,  ch.  1).  However,  when 
he  reassumed  the  throne  in  1941,  he  renewed  his  efforts  to  bolster 
Ethiopia's  international  standing. 

After  World  War  II,  Haile  Selassie  achieved  considerable  in- 
ternational success  primarily  because  of  his  active  participation  in 
the  UN,  his  alignment  with  the  West,  and  his  vocal  support  for 
the  African  independence  movement.  As  a  UN  member,  Ethio- 
pia committed  troops  to  the  peacekeeping  mission  in  Korea  from 
1950  to  1953  and  to  the  Congo  (present-day  Zaire)  in  1960. 
Moreover,  Ethiopia's  military  and  diplomatic  relationship  with  the 
United  States  provided  it  with  a  superpower  ally  (see  United  States, 
ch.  5).  Finally,  Haile  Selassie  took  the  lead  in  pressing  for  a  reso- 
lution establishing  the  territorial  integrity  of  the  independent  states 
of  Africa.  Over  the  years,  he  developed  a  reputation  as  a  sage  voice 
of  moderation  on  a  continent  filled  with  militant  nationalists.  It 
was  in  this  capacity  that  he  offered  to  host  the  headquarters  of  the 
OAU  upon  its  founding  in  the  early  1960s,  once  again  demonstrat- 
ing his  diplomatic  acumen. 

The  Foreign  Policy  of  the  Derg 

The  foreign  policy  of  Ethiopia  did  not  change  immediately  upon 
the  demise  of  the  imperial  regime.  Initially,  the  country's  new 


254 


Government  and  Politics 


leaders  maintained  the  general  thrust  of  the  foreign  policy  devel- 
oped under  Haile  Selassie  and  concentrated  mainly  on  consolidat- 
ing their  rule.  Nonetheless,  the  Marxist  ideology  of  the  Derg  and 
its  civilian  allies  made  conflict  with  Ethiopia's  superpower  patron, 
the  United  States,  inevitable. 

By  the  mid-1970s,  Kagnew  station,  the  communications  monitor- 
ing base  in  Asmera  granted  under  terms  of  the  1953  Mutual  Defense 
Assistance  Agreement  between  Ethiopia  and  the  United  States,  had 
largely  lost  its  value.  Advances  in  satellite  technology  had  rendered 
land-based  facilities  like  Kagnew  station  less  important  for  long- 
range  communications  monitoring.  Yet  the  United  States  felt  the 
need  to  maintain  a  presence  in  this  strategically  important  part  of 
Africa,  particularly  because  the  Soviet  Union  was  beginning  to  be- 
come active  in  the  area.  The  administration  of  President  Gerald 
Ford  (1974-77)  wanted  to  avoid  an  embarrassment  similar  to  that 
experienced  by  the  United  States  in  Angola  in  1975,  when  covert 
United  States  aid  to  anticommunist  combatants  failed  to  dislodge 
the  pro-Moscow  Popular  Movement  for  the  Liberation  of  Angola. 
Even  though  President  Ford  and  Secretary  of  State  Henry  Kis- 
singer indicated  uneasiness  with  Ethiopia's  violations  of  human 
rights  and  growing  leftist  tendencies,  they  did  no  more  than  cau- 
tiously encourage  the  Derg  to  moderate  its  human  rights  policies. 

The  United  States  began  to  express  concern  over  the  Derg's 
human  rights  violations  when  on  November  23,  1974,  a  day  that 
came  to  be  known  as  "Bloody  Saturday,"  fifty-nine  officials  who 
had  served  in  the  old  regime  were  executed.  Official  United  States 
concern  intensified  two  months  later  when  the  Derg  mobilized  a 
force  consisting  of  regular  military  units  and  the  hastily  assembled 
People's  Militia  in  an  effort  to  resolve  the  Eritrean  question  through 
military  means  (see  People's  Militia,  ch.  5).  But  Eritrean  forces 
attacked  first,  surprising  the  Ethiopian  forces  in  their  base  camps 
and  scoring  an  impressive  victory. 

Whereas  the  administration  of  President  Ford  had  been  reluc- 
tant to  impose  sanctions  on  Ethiopia  because  of  its  human  rights 
record,  President  Jimmy  Carter  made  human  rights  a  central  con- 
cern of  his  administration  (1977-81).  On  February  25,  1977,  Carter 
announced  that  because  of  continued  human  rights  violations,  cer- 
tain governments  that  were  receiving  Washington's  military  aid 
(including  Ethiopia)  would  receive  reduced  assistance  in  the  fol- 
lowing fiscal  year.  Consequently,  the  Derg  began  to  cast  about  for 
alternative  sources  of  military  assistance.  Among  the  countries 
Ethiopia  turned  to  were  China  and  the  Soviet  Union.  At  first,  the 
actual  assistance  provided  by  these  superpowers  was  minimal,  and 
the  United  States  maintained  its  presence  in  the  country.  However, 


255 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

relations  between  the  United  States  and  Ethiopia  deteriorated 
rapidly.  By  April  1977,  Mengistu  had  demanded  that  Washing- 
ton close  down  Kagnew  station  and  most  other  installations;  only 
a  small  staff  was  allowed  to  remain  at  the  United  States  embassy. 
By  then,  the  first  supplies  of  Soviet  military  hardware  had  begun  to 
arrive. 

Having  its  military  presence  in  Ethiopia  ended,  and  with  ten- 
sions mounting  in  the  Middle  East  and  Iran,  the  United  States 
began  to  cultivate  alliances  in  northeast  Africa  that  could  facilitate 
the  development  of  a  long-range  military  strike  capability.  These 
developments  coincided  with  an  escalation  of  tensions  in  the  Horn 
region  in  general.  The  United  States  eventually  began  the  systematic 
pursuit  of  a  strategy  that  amounted  to  encircling  the  Arabian  Penin- 
sula. The  United  States  asked  Egypt,  Sudan,  Kenya,  Somalia,  and 
Oman  to  allow  their  territories  to  be  used  as  staging  grounds  for 
the  fledgling  Rapid  Deployment  Force  (RDF),  which  later  became 
the  United  States  Central  Command.  The  Soviet  Union's  clients 
in  the  region — Ethiopia,  Libya,  and  the  People's  Democratic  Re- 
public of  Yemen  (South  Yemen) — perceiving  Washington's  action 
as  a  threat,  signed  a  tripartite  agreement  in  1981  and  pledged  to 
repulse  any  effort  to  intervene  in  their  respective  countries.  How- 
ever, this  alliance  never  played  a  significant  role  in  the  region. 

The  Derg,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  the  Communist  World 

Apparently  sensing  that  the  Mengistu  regime  was  in  desperate 
trouble,  internal  and  external  enemies  took  action  to  hasten  its 
demise  (see  External  and  Internal  Opponents,  ch.  5).  Most  im- 
portant, civilian  opposition  groups  began  to  wage  urban  guerrilla 
campaigns  to  demoralize  and  discredit  the  Derg,  and  Somalia  com- 
mitted regular  troops  to  assist  ethnic  Somali  living  in  Ethiopia's 
Ogaden  region  in  their  efforts  to  separate  from  Ethiopia.  Simul- 
taneously, the  Somali  government  expressed  concern  over  the  grow- 
ing Soviet  and  Cuban  presence  in  Ethiopia.  Until  then,  Somalia 
had  been  an  ally  of  the  Soviet  Union.  After  the  Somali  National 
Army  (SNA)  invaded  the  Ogaden  region  in  July  1977,  the  Soviet 
Union  withdrew  its  1,000  advisers  from  Somalia.  In  November 
Somalia  announced  that  it  had  abrogated  the  1974  Treaty  of  Friend- 
ship and  Cooperation  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  that  it  had  sus- 
pended diplomatic  relations  with  Cuba.  At  that  point,  the  Soviet 
Union  adopted  Ethiopia  as  its  main  ally  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  In 
late  November,  it  launched  a  massive  airlift  and  sealift  of  arms  and 
other  military  equipment  to  Ethiopia.  Over  the  next  several  months, 
about  17,000  Cuban  and  1,000  Soviet  military  personnel  arrived 


256 


Government  and  Politics 


in  the  country  and  were  deployed  to  the  Ogaden  front.  This  aid 
turned  the  tide  in  favor  of  Ethiopia  by  early  1978. 

As  had  the  regime  of  Haile  Selassie,  the  Derg  accorded  its  in- 
ternational image  and  territorial  integrity  the  highest  priority  in 
its  foreign  policy.  Opposition  groups  had  forced  the  regime  to  rely 
extensively  on  the  Soviet  Union  to  maintain  itself  in  power  and 
to  preserve  the  country's  territorial  integrity.  From  1977  to  1990, 
Soviet  military  assistance  to  Ethiopia  was  estimated  to  be  as  much 
as  US$13  billion.  However,  by  1987  there  was  evidence  that  the 
Soviet  Union  had  decided  to  cut  back  military  assistance  to  Ethio- 
pia and  to  press  for  political  solutions  to  that  country's  several  civil 
conflicts.  By  that  time,  there  were  fewer  than  1 ,800  Soviet  advisers 
in  Ethiopia  and  a  total  of  about  2,000  advisers  from  Bulgaria, 
Czechoslovakia,  Hungary,  East  Germany,  and  Poland.  Further- 
more, all  Cuban  troops  in  the  Ogaden  had  withdrawn,  and  the 
Cuban  military  presence  in  Ethiopia  had  dropped  to  fewer  than 
2,000. 

Although  Ethiopia  was  dependent  on  the  Soviet  Union  for  mili- 
tary assistance  and  sided  with  it  in  the  international  diplomatic 
arena,  Addis  Ababa  on  numerous  occasions  demonstrated  its  in- 
dependence in  the  area  of  domestic  policy  and  international  eco- 
nomic policy.  For  instance,  the  Derg  procrastinated  in  setting  up 
a  vanguard  party  despite  Soviet  pressure  to  do  so.  Once  the  party 
was  formed,  it  was  dominated  by  former  military  personnel,  again 
contrary  to  Soviet  wishes.  In  the  economic  sphere,  Addis  Ababa 
had  close  aid  and  trade  relations  with  the  West  and  pursued  a  prag- 
matic investment  policy. 

Although  Mengistu  eschewed  any  talk  of  Ethiopian-style  glas- 
nost,  Ethiopia  could  not  escape  the  global  impact  of  Soviet  leader 
Mikhail  Gorbachev's  reforms.  When  Mengistu  visited  the  Soviet 
Union  in  1988,  Gorbachev  told  him  that  if  Moscow's  support  were 
to  continue,  the  Soviet  Union  would  have  to  see  dramatic  changes 
in  Ethiopia's  agricultural  priorities,  coupled  with  political  liber- 
alization. The  Soviet  leader  also  refused  to  continue  unqualified 
military  and  economic  support  of  the  Mengistu  regime.  A  combi- 
nation of  economic  realities  and  Soviet  pressure  encouraged  the 
Mengistu  regime  in  1989  to  retreat  at  least  partially  from  its  dog- 
matically statist  approach  to  economic  development  (see  Role  of 
Government,  ch.  3).  By  late  1990,  the  Soviet-Ethiopian  alliance 
had  ended.  As  a  result,  Addis  Ababa  looked  to  several  other  na- 
tions, including  Israel  and  China,  for  military  assistance.  None 
of  these  nations,  however,  was  capable  of  replacing  the  amount 
of  military  equipment  the  Soviet  Union  had  supplied  to  Ethiopia. 


257 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Derg  and  the  West 

Although  the  Derg  depended  on  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  allies 
for  military  aid,  it  was  just  as  reliant  on  the  West  for  economic 
development  and  relief  aid  (see  Balance  of  Payments  and  Foreign 
Assistance,  ch.  3).  For  example,  the  European  Community  (EC) 
was  Ethiopia's  most  significant  source  of  economic  aid.  In  the  early 
1980s,  Western  sources  accounted  for  more  than  90  percent  of 
Ethiopia's  economic  aid,  most  of  which  came  from  the  EC.  Since 
then,  communist  countries  had  increased  their  proportion  of  total 
aid  to  Ethiopia  to  about  20  percent.  Other  multilateral  and  bilateral 
donors  also  had  provided  increased  aid.  For  example,  after  refrain- 
ing from  giving  aid  to  Addis  Ababa  between  1975  and  1981,  the 
World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  pledged  more  than  US$250  million  in 
project  aid,  the  European  Development  Fund  promised  about 
US$300  million,  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF- 
see  Glossary)  agreed  to  a  loan  of  almost  US$100  million.  The  re- 
gime accepted  the  IMF  loan  even  though  it  claimed  to  disagree 
with  IMF  policies.  Moreover,  a  joint  venture  law  in  1983  and  a 
foreign  investment  policy  initiated  in  1988  had  stimulated  the  gradu- 
al return  of  private  investors,  although  the  level  of  such  investments 
remained  low. 

Even  though  Ethiopia  was  dependent  on  Western  economic  aid, 
no  Western  donor  was  able  to  influence  day-to-day  economic  policy 
on  a  regular  basis.  For  instance,  the  Swedish  International  Develop- 
ment Authority,  the  United  States  Agency  for  International  De- 
velopment (AID),  the  World  Bank,  and  other  donor  agencies 
historically  had  favored  the  development  of  agricultural  coopera- 
tives if  they  were  organized  on  free-market  principles.  However, 
the  Ethiopian  regime  attempted  to  guide  the  development  of  cooper- 
atives so  that  they  might  be  transformed  into  socialist  collectives 
compatible  with  a  centrally  planned  and  directed  economy.  Like 
the  imperial  government  before  it,  the  Derg  attempted  to  play  off 
a  multiplicity  of  donors  against  one  another  and  thereby  maximize 
certain  benefits  without  surrendering  its  sovereignty. 

Ethiopia's  Border  Politics 

As  the  Mengistu  regime  attempted  to  consolidate  its  rule,  it  had 
to  cope  with  serious  border  problems,  particularly  with  Somalia 
and  Sudan.  The  point  at  issue  with  Somalia  was  the  Ogaden  region, 
an  area  that  Mogadishu  claimed  as  part  of  the  historical  Somali 
nation  that  had  been  seized  by  the  Ethiopians  during  the  colonial 
partition  of  the  Horn  of  Africa.  In  fact,  Ethiopia's  only  unde- 
fined boundary  was  the  border  it  shared  with  the  former  Italian 


258 


Africa  Hall,  headquarters  of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  Addis  Ababa. 
The  Organization  of  African  Unity  conducted  its  first  meeting  at  this  site. 

Courtesy  United  Nations 

Somaliland.  On  maps  drawn  after  1950,  this  boundary  is  termed 
"Administrative  Line"  (see  fig.  1).  Upon  gaining  independence 
from  European  colonial  rule  in  1960,  the  inhabitants  of  the  Republic 
of  Somalia  nurtured  the  hope  that  all  Somali  eventually  would  be 
united  in  a  modern  nation-state.  Somali  claims  to  the  Ogaden, 
Djibouti,  and  parts  of  Kenya,  however,  had  been  consistently  re- 
jected by  the  UN,  the  OAU,  and  most  of  the  world's  sovereign 
states.  Still,  Somalia's  leadership  remained  unwilling  to  forsake  these 
claims  publicly. 

In  1961,  less  than  a  year  after  Somalia  gained  independence,  its 
troops  clashed  with  Ethiopian  soldiers  along  their  common  border. 
In  1964  renewed  tensions  erupted  into  a  minor  regional  war.  In  both 
cases,  Somalia  was  defeated.  Ethnic  Somali  in  Kenya's  northeast 
also  unsuccessfully  challenged  that  country's  new  government  in  the 
early  1960s.  Pan-Somalism,  then,  served  as  a  basis  for  the  continu- 
ance of  cooperative  relations  between  Nairobi  and  Addis  Ababa, 
despite  the  change  of  regime  in  Ethiopia.  The  two  countries  first 
signed  a  mutual  defense  agreement  in  1 964  that  resulted  in  the  cre- 
ation of  the  Ethiopia-Kenya  Border  Administration  Commission. 

The  Ogaden  War  (1977-78)  was  the  most  serious  border  conflict 
between  Ethiopia  and  Somalia  (see  The  Somali,  ch.  5).  Beginning 


259 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  early  summer  of  1977,  SNA  units  and  WSLF  guerrillas,  a 
movement  of  ethnic  Somali  opposed  to  incorporation  in  Ethiopia, 
occupied  vast  tracts  of  the  Ogaden  and  forced  the  Ethiopian  army 
into  fortresses  at  Jijiga,  Harer,  and  Dire  Dawa  for  almost  eight 
months.  The  intention  was  to  separate  the  Ogaden  from  Ethiopia 
to  set  the  stage  for  ethnic  Somali  in  the  region  to  decide  their  own 
future. 

It  was  only  with  Soviet  and  Cuban  assistance  that  the  Derg 
regained  control  over  the  region  by  early  1978.  The  Soviet  Union 
not  only  provided  massive  amounts  of  military  equipment  but  also 
advisers,  who  trained  Ethiopian  soldiers  and  pilots.  Moreover, 
Cuban  troops  spearheaded  the  counteroffensive  that  began  in  March 
1978.  Cuban  and  Ethiopian  troops  quickly  defeated  the  SNA  and 
WSLF  once  the  counteroffensive  began.  Many  WSLF  fighters 
returned  to  their  villages  or  took  refuge  inside  Somalia.  In  addi- 
tion, some  650,000  Somali  and  Oromo  fled  from  southeastern 
Ethiopia  into  Somalia  by  early  1978  to  escape  unsettled  local  con- 
ditions and  repression  by  Ethiopian  armed  forces.  After  the  defeat, 
Somali  opposition  reverted  to  sporadic  guerrilla  ambushes  and  oc- 
casional acts  of  sabotage. 

On  April  4,  1988,  after  several  preparatory  meetings,  Ethiopia 
and  Somalia  signed  a  joint  communique  that  supposedly  ended  the 
Ogaden  conflict.  According  to  the  communique's  terms,  the  two 
countries  committed  themselves  to  withdrawing  their  military  forces 
fifteen  kilometers  from  the  border,  exchanging  prisoners  of  war, 
restoring  diplomatic  relations,  and  refraining  from  supporting  each 
other's  antigovernment  guerrilla  groups.  Reportedly,  a  separate 
secret  accord  contained  a  Somali  renunciation  of  all  claims  to  the 
Ogaden  region.  From  Mengistu's  point  of  view,  the  joint  commu- 
nique secured  Ethiopia's  southeastern  border,  thereby  enabling 
Addis  Ababa  to  devote  more  resources  to  the  struggle  against  the 
EPLF  and  TPLF  in  northern  Ethiopia. 

Nevertheless,  by  1991  it  had  become  evident  that  Ethiopia  had 
failed  to  honor  the  provisions  of  the  joint  communique.  The  Men- 
gistu  regime  allowed  the  anti-Siad  Barre  Somali  National  Move- 
ment (SNM)  to  maintain  offices  in  Addis  Ababa  and  Dire  Dawa 
and  to  operate  five  training  camps  near  Dire  Dawa.  Additionally, 
the  Ethiopian  government  still  provided  materiel  and  logistical  sup- 
port to  the  SNM.  Despite  these  violations,  Somalia  refrained  from 
reinitiating  hostilities  with  Ethiopia. 

Relations  between  Ethiopia  and  Sudan  were  generally  good  until 
the  mid-1980s,  when  the  Sudanese  People's  Liberation  Army 
(SPLA)  emerged  to  challenge  the  hegemony  of  Khartoum.  Em- 
peror Haile  Selassie  had  been  instrumental  in  mediating  an  end 


260 


Government  and  Politics 


to  the  Sudanese  civil  war  in  1972.  However,  Ethiopia  regularly 
expressed  disappointment  that  the  Sudanese  government  had  not 
prevented  Eritrean  guerrillas  from  operating  out  of  its  territory. 
Sudan  attempted  to  negotiate  an  end  to  the  Eritrean  conflict  in 
1975  but  was  unsuccessful.  When  Ethiopia  turned  to  the  Soviet 
Union  and  away  from  the  United  States,  Sudan's  government  be- 
came concerned.  Sudanese  president  Jaafar  an  Nimeiri  had  accused 
the  Soviet  Union  of  having  inspired  coup  attempts  against  his  re- 
gime in  1971  and  1976.  Sudan  recalled  its  ambassador  to  Ethiopia 
in  January  1977,  and  for  several  years  serious  border  tensions  ex- 
isted between  the  two  countries. 

Ethiopia's  turn  toward  the  Soviet  Union  caused  Sudan  to  seek 
the  support  of  new  allies  in  preparing  for  the  possibility  of  exter- 
nal invasions  sponsored  by  Khartoum's  regional  enemies.  Nimeiri 
decided  to  openly  support  certain  Eritrean  liberation  movements. 
In  addition,  he  supported  Somalia  during  the  Ogaden  War.  Nimeiri 
claimed  that  he  wanted  to  build  a  "high  wall  against  communism" 
in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  agreed  to  participate  with  the  United 
States,  Kenya,  Egypt,  Somalia,  and  Oman  in  the  development  of 
the  RDF.  By  1980  the  tensions  between  Sudan  and  Ethiopia  had 
abated,  however,  with  the  signing  of  a  peace  treaty  calling  for  the 
mutual  respect  of  the  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty  of  the 
two  countries. 

The  1981  tripartite  agreement  among  Ethiopia,  Libya,  and  South 
Yemen  undermined  relations  between  Addis  Ababa  and  Khartoum. 
For  some  time,  the  Libyan  government  had  been  trying  to  over- 
throw Nimeiri.  Now  Ethiopia  appeared  to  be  joining  the  Libyan 
effort.  Border  tensions  between  the  two  countries  also  increased 
after  Ethiopia  started  supporting  the  SPLA. 

After  Nimeiri  was  overthrown  in  1985,  Sadiq  al  Mahdi's  regime 
made  it  clear  that  it  wanted  to  improve  relations  with  Ethiopia  and 
Libya.  Supposedly,  this  was  the  first  step  in  the  resolution  of  Sudan's 
civil  war.  The  change  in  regimes  in  Sudan  also  prompted  a  deteri- 
oration in  United  States-Sudanese  relations,  manifested  by  Khar- 
toum's cancellation  of  the  agreement  calling  for  the  participation 
of  Sudanese  troops  in  the  Operation  Bright  Star  exercises.  Despite 
Sudan's  estrangement  from  the  United  States  and  Mahdi's  grow- 
ing closeness  to  Libya  after  1985,  there  was  no  substantive  improve- 
ment in  Ethiopian-Sudanese  relations.  The  problem  continued  to 
center  on  Sudan's  support  for  Eritrean  rebels  and  Mengistu's  con- 
tinued support  of  the  SPLA.  By  1989,  following  the  overthrow  of 
Sadiq  al  Mahdi,  Khartoum  and  Addis  Ababa  had  offered  to  negoti- 
ate their  respective  internal  conflicts,  but  nothing  tangible  came 
of  this. 


261 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Addis  Ababa  and  the  Middle  East 

To  undermine  regional  support  for  the  Eritrean  movements,  after 
1987  the  Ethiopian  government  tried  to  develop  better  relations 
with  several  Arab  countries.  Between  1987  and  1989,  high-level 
Ethiopian  delegations  visited  Egypt,  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya,  and  Saudi 
Arabia.  In  the  fall  of  1988,  Mengistu  paid  a  two-day  visit  to  Syria 
to  explain  to  President  Hafiz  al  Assad  the  various  reforms  the  Ethio- 
pian regime  had  recently  made,  including  the  creation  of  autono- 
mous regions,  designed  to  be  responsive  to  the  desires  of  groups 
like  the  Eritreans.  Prime  Minister  Fikre-Selassie  Wogderes  made 
a  visit  to  Cairo  in  November  1988  to  seek  improved  relations  with 
Egypt  and  to  express  support  for  Egypt's  offer  to  negotiate  a  settle- 
ment of  the  Eritrean  conflict.  Despite  these  moves,  Ethiopia's  re- 
lations with  the  Middle  East  remained  minimal. 

By  1989  the  lack  of  progress  toward  improved  relations  with  Arab 
countries  and  the  desperate  need  for  arms  appeared  to  have  in- 
spired Ethiopia  to  develop  closer  ties  with  Israel.  Subsequently, 
diplomatic  relations  between  the  two  countries,  which  had  been 
broken  off  at  the  time  of  the  October  1973  War,  were  restored. 
Approximately  10,000  Beta  Israel  (Ethiopian  Jews;  also  called 
Falasha)  had  been  spirited  out  of  Ethiopia  to  Israel  in  1984  in  a 
secret  airlift  known  as  Operation  Moses,  and  Israel  remained  com- 
mitted to  securing  the  emigration  of  the  remaining  Beta  Israel.  In 
return,  Israel  agreed  to  provide  the  Mengistu  regime  with  mili- 
tary assistance  (see  Ethnic  Groups,  Ethnicity,  and  Language,  ch.  2). 

Israel  obtained  the  release  of  an  additional  large  number  of  Beta 
Israel  in  May  1991  in  the  midst  of  the  collapse  of  the  Mengistu 
regime.  Negotiations  for  another  Beta  Israel  exodus  were  already 
under  way,  and  large  numbers  of  them  had  already  been  brought 
to  Addis  Ababa  when  the  military  government  came  under  intense 
pressure  from  EPRDF  forces.  At  the  behest  of  both  Israel  and  the 
United  States,  the  government  agreed  to  release  the  Beta  Israel 
against  an  Israeli  payment  of  US$35  million.  On  May  24-26,  in 
what  was  called  Operation  Solomon,  some  15,000  Beta  Israel  were 
airlifted  from  Ethiopia  to  Israel,  leaving  an  estimated  5,000  be- 
hind, mostly  around  Gonder. 

The  Demise  of  the  Military  Government 

In  retrospect,  perhaps  the  two  crucial  factors  in  the  fall  of  the 
Mengistu  regime  were  the  abortive  coup  of  May  1989  and  the  loss 
of  Soviet  military  and  political  support.  In  the  aftermath  of  quell- 
ing the  coup,  disaffection  spread  throughout  the  army.  Thereafter, 
whole  military  units  defected,  taking  their  arms  and  equipment 


262 


Government  and  Politics 


with  them  as  they  joined  insurgent  groups.  At  the  same  time,  Soviet 
military  deliveries  dwindled  and  then  ceased,  a  source  of  supply 
that  Mengistu  was  never  able  to  replace,  leaving  government  forces 
still  further  weakened  and  demoralized.  It  was  these  developments 
that  led  Mengistu  to  attempt  economic  reforms  in  1989  and  1990 
and  to  initiate  peace  talks  with  the  EPLF  and  EPRDF  under  Italian 
and  United  States  auspices. 

During  the  early  months  of  1991 ,  both  the  military  and  the  po- 
litical outlooks  darkened  considerably  for  the  government.  The 
EPLF  pressed  its  sweep  down  the  Red  Sea  coast  with  the  aim  of 
capturing  Aseb  (see  The  Eritreans,  ch.  5).  In  February  and  March, 
EPRDF  forces  overran  large  portions  of  Gonder,  Gojam,  and 
Welega,  threatening  Addis  Ababa  from  the  northwest  and  west  (see 
The  Tigray,  ch.  5).  In  mid- April  the  National  Shengo  proposed 
talks  with  all  political  groups  that  would  lead  to  a  transitional 
government,  a  cease-fire,  and  amnesty  for  all  political  prisoners. 
At  the  same  time,  the  National  Shengo  tempered  its  peace  initia- 
tive by  calling  for  the  mobilization  of  all  adults  over  the  age  of  eigh- 
teen and  for  the  strengthening  of  the  WPE.  A  few  days  later,  on 
April  26,  Mengistu,  in  a  gesture  to  his  opponents,  reshuffled  the 
government,  dropping  several  hard-liners  and  replacing  them  with 
moderates.  Among  the  latter  were  Lieutenant  General  Tesfaye 
Gebre-Kidan,  one  of  the  army's  commanders  in  Eritrea,  who  was 
promoted  to  vice  president,  and  Tesfaye  Dinka,  former  foreign 
minister,  who  became  prime  minister.  Both  belonged  to  a  group 
of  advisers  who  had  been  urging  Mengistu  to  compromise  with 
the  Eritreans  and  the  Tigray. 

The  main  opposition  parties — the  EPLF,  EPRDF,  and  OLF — 
rebuffed  the  National  Shengo' s  offer.  During  the  next  month,  as 
all  parties  prepared  for  the  next  round  of  talks  scheduled  for  Lon- 
don in  late  May,  the  EPLF  and  EPRDF  pressed  hard  on  the  mili- 
tary front.  In  late  April,  EPRDF  forces  were  reported  to  be  some 
100  kilometers  west  of  Addis  Ababa  and  still  advancing;  in  Eritrea 
the  EPLF  made  gains  along  the  Red  Sea  coast  and  closed  in  on 
Keren  and  Asmera.  In  mid-May  the  last  major  government  strong- 
holds north  of  Addis  Ababa — Dese  and  Kembolcha  in  southern 
Welo — fell  to  the  EPRDF.  With  little  but  demoralized  and  fleeing 
troops  between  the  capital  and  the  EPRDF  forces,  Mengistu 
resigned  the  presidency  and  fled  the  country  on  May  21 .  His  exit, 
widely  regarded  as  essential  if  the  upcoming  negotiations  were  to 
succeed,  was  secured  in  part  through  the  efforts  of  Assistant  Secre- 
tary of  State  Herman  Cohen,  who  pressured  Mengistu  to  resign 
and  arranged  for  his  exile  in  Zimbabwe. 


263 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Lieutenant  General  Tesfaye,  now  head  of  state,  called  for  a  cease- 
fire; he  also  offered  to  share  power  with  his  opponents  and  went 
so  far  as  to  begin  releasing  political  prisoners,  but  to  no  avail. 
EPRDF  fighters  continued  their  advance  on  the  virtually  defense- 
less capital  and  announced  that  they  could  enter  it  at  will.  Mean- 
while, on  May  24,  the  EPLF  received  the  surrender  of  Keren  and 
the  120,000-member  garrison  in  Asmera,  which  brought  the  whole 
of  Eritrea  under  its  control  except  for  Aseb,  which  fell  the  next  day. 
The  goal  of  independence  from  Ethiopia,  for  which  Eritreans  had 
fought  for  three  decades,  now  seemed  a  virtual  certainty. 

Against  the  background  of  these  events,  the  London  conference 
opened  on  May  27.  The  main  contending  parties  were  all  in  at- 
tendance: the  government  party  headed  by  Tesfaye  Dinka,  the 
EPLF  under  Issaias  Afwerki,  the  EPRDF  under  TPLF  leader  Meles 
Zenawi,  and  the  OLF  under  its  deputy  secretary  general,  Lencho 
Letta.  Assistant  Secretary  Cohen  served  as  a  mutually  acceptable 
mediator.  Ostensibly,  the  conference  was  supposed  to  explore  ways 
to  set  up  a  transitional  government  in  Addis  Ababa,  but  its  proceed- 
ings were  soon  overtaken  by  events  on  the  ground.  The  talks  had 
hardly  gotten  under  way  when  Cohen  received  a  message  to  the 
effect  that  Lieutenant  General  Tesfaye  had  lost  control  of  the 
government's  remaining  armed  units  and  that  Addis  Ababa  was 
threatened  with  a  complete  breakdown  of  law  and  order.  To  pre- 
vent uncontrolled  destruction  and  looting,  Cohen  recommended 
that  EPRDF  forces  immediately  move  into  Addis  Ababa  and  es- 
tablish control.  Tesfaye  Dinka  strenuously  objected,  but  he  spoke 
from  a  position  of  weakness  and  could  not  prevail;  he  subsequently 
withdrew  from  the  conference.  On  the  night  of  May  27-28,  EPRDF 
forces  marched  into  Addis  Ababa  and  assumed  control  of  the  city 
and  national  government. 

The  next  day,  Cohen  again  met  with  leaders  of  the  EPLF, 
EPRDF,  and  OLF,  but  now  as  an  adviser  and  not  as  a  mediator. 
The  insurgent  leaders  committed  themselves  to  a  pluralist  demo- 
cratic society  and  government  for  Ethiopia  and  agreed  that  Eritreans 
would  be  free  to  determine  their  own  future,  including  indepen- 
dence if  they  wished.  They  also  agreed  that  the  EPRDF  should 
continue  to  exercise  temporary  control  in  Addis  Ababa.  The  task 
of  constructing  a  transitional  government,  however,  was  postponed 
until  early  July,  when  a  national  conference  broadly  representa- 
tive of  all  major  political  groups  would  convene  in  Addis  Ababa 
to  take  up  the  matter.  With  these  agreements  in  hand,  the  Lon- 
don conference  adjourned,  but  not  before  Cohen  stressed  the  need 
for  fundamental  reforms  and  conditioned  future  United  States  aid 
upon  construction  of  a  democratic  political  system. 


264 


Government  and  Politics 


By  early  June,  the  EPRDF  claimed  that  it  had  established  ef- 
fective control  over  most  of  the  country,  the  last  remaining  govern- 
ment troops  in  Dire  Dawa  and  Harer  having  surrendered  along 
with  some  300  officials  and  military  officers  of  the  former  regime. 
The  new  rulers  faced  a  number  of  daunting  problems,  among  them 
famine  and  starvation  affecting  several  million  people,  a  severely 
dislocated  economy  and  society,  the  prospect  of  Eritrean  indepen- 
dence and  with  it  the  loss  of  direct  access  to  the  Red  Sea,  and  the 
thorny  and  far  from  settled  question  of  ethnicity.  The  explosive 
potential  of  these  problems  was  immediately  apparent  when,  only 
a  day  after  having  marched  into  Addis  Ababa,  EPRDF  soldiers 
shot  or  wounded  several  demonstrators  protesting  the  EPRDF 
takeover,  agreements  affecting  Eritrea,  and  United  States  policies 
toward  the  country.  Even  so,  there  was  much  hope  and  optimism 
about  the  future  among  a  war- weary  population,  as  well  as  a  pal- 
pable sense  of  relief  that  seventeen  years  of  despised  military  rule 
had  at  last  come  to  an  end. 

*    *  * 

One  of  the  first  accounts  of  the  Ethiopian  revolution,  and  still 
a  valuable  book  for  understanding  the  earlier  phases  of  the  process, 
is  Marina  and  David  Ottaway's  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolution.  In 
recent  years,  there  have  been  a  number  of  outstanding  scholarly 
works  on  the  Ethiopian  revolution.  The  best  among  these  are 
Christopher  S.  Clapham's  Transformation  and  Continuity  in  Revolu- 
tionary Ethiopia,  a  richly  detailed  institutional  analysis  of  the  revolu- 
tion; Fred  Halliday  and  Maxine  Molyneux's  The  Ethiopian  Revolution, 
a  scholarly  Marxian  interpretation  of  the  first  five  years  of  the  revo- 
lution; John  W.  Harbeson's  The  Ethiopian  Transformation,  a  study 
of  the  revolution  and  its  military  foundations;  Edmond  J.  Keller's 
Revolutionary  Ethiopia:  From  Empire  to  People's  Republic,  a  compre- 
hensive analysis  of  the  underlying  and  precipitating  causes  of  the 
revolution  and  its  consequences;  John  Markakis's  National  and  Class 
Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  a  critical,  Marxian  analysis  of  the  re- 
gional political  dimensions  of  the  revolution;  and  Mulatu  Wub- 
neh  and  Yohannis  Abate 's  Ethiopia:  Transition  and  Development  in 
the  Horn  of  Africa,  an  overview  of  Ethiopian  politics,  economy,  and 
society  up  to  the  late  1980s.  There  are  few  good  inside  accounts 
of  the  revolution,  but  two  works  stand  out:  Dawit  Wolde  Giorgis's 
Red  Tears,  an  insightful  account  of  the  inner  workings  of  the  Men- 
gistu  regime,  written  by  a  former  member  of  the  WPE  Central 
Committee  and  head  of  the  RRC;  and  David  A.  Korn's  Ethiopia, 
the  United  States ,  and  the  Soviet  Union,  which  describes  the  revolution 


265 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

as  seen  from  the  perspective  of  a  United  States  diplomat  living  in 
Ethiopia. 

Useful  accounts  of  the  various  liberation  movements  are  scanty. 
Among  the  more  notable  recent  works  are  Bereket  Habte  Selassie's 
Conflict  and  Intervention  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  James  Firebrace's  Never 
Kneel  Down,  and  Jordan  Gebre-Medhin's  Peasants  and  Nationalism 
in  Eritrea.  Each  of  these  is  best  on  the  Eritrean  struggle.  The  most 
comprehensive  discussion  of  the  TPLF  can  be  found  in  Markakis's 
National  and  Class  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


266 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Lancers,  adapted  from  an  eighteenth- century  religious  manuscript.  Tradi 
tional  Ethiopian  art  depicts  righteous  warriors  in  full  face,  the  enemy  in  profile 


For  centuries,  most  Ethiopians  understood  that 

every  able-bodied  male  might  be  called  upon  to  perform  military 
service.  Despite  the  importance  of  a  career  as  a  warrior  in  Ethio- 
pian society,  however,  it  was  not  until  1942  that  the  country  pos- 
sessed truly  national  armed  forces.  To  modernize  the  Ethiopian 
army,  Emperor  Haile  Selassie  I  (reigned  1930-74)  relied  on  for- 
eign military  assistance  and  advisers.  From  1942  to  1952,  Britain 
was  Ethiopia's  major  arms  supplier  as  a  result  of  its  role  in  the 
liberation  of  Ethiopia.  Between  1953  and  1976,  the  United  States 
provided  Ethiopia  with  most  of  its  weapons  and  training.  Starting 
in  1977,  the  Soviet  Union  was  the  country's  closest  military  partner. 

In  1974  Haile  Selassie's  imperial  regime  collapsed.  Eventually, 
a  Marxist  dictatorship  took  power  in  Ethiopia.  Having  assumed 
the  roles  of  chief  of  state  and  commander  in  chief,  Mengistu  Haile 
Mariam  consolidated  his  hold  on  the  armed  forces  by  eliminating 
both  real  and  imagined  political  opponents.  Despite  the  transfor- 
mation of  the  country's  military  establishment  from  an  imperial 
force  to  an  instrument  of  Marxist  policy  in  the  "vanguard  of  the 
revolution,"  the  Mengistu  regime  continued  to  observe  Ethiopian 
traditions  concerning  the  preeminent  role  of  the  soldier  in  state  and 
society. 

In  mid- 1991  Ethiopia  had  the  largest  combined  military  and 
paramilitary  force  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  (438,000  personnel)  and, 
with  150  modern  combat  aircraft  and  about  1,300  tanks,  certainly 
one  of  the  best  equipped.  Although  not  an  integral  part  of  the 
defense  establishment,  the  Mobile  Emergency  Police  Force  par- 
ticipated in  counterinsurgency  operations.  In  addition,  the  govern- 
ment had  transformed  armed  civilian  People's  Protection  Brigades 
from  vigilante  groups  into  local  law  enforcement  units. 

Competing  nationalisms  that  confront  each  other  in  the  Horn 
of  Africa  have  posed  the  most  serious  threat  to  Ethiopia's  national 
security.  Since  1961,  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces  have  been  fight- 
ing secessionists  in  Eritrea  and,  since  1974,  insurgents  in  Tigray. 
Ethiopia,  aided  by  a  large  Cuban  combat  force  and  Soviet  logisti- 
cal support,  also  fought  a  conventional  war  against  Somalia  over 
the  Ogaden  in  1977-78. 

After  the  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council  seized  power 
in  1974,  Ethiopia  relied  almost  exclusively  on  the  Soviet  Union  and 
its  allies  to  prosecute  its  various  wars.  By  the  late  1980s,  however, 
Moscow  was  no  longer  willing  to  provide  unlimited  amounts  of 


269 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

military  assistance  to  Ethiopia.  Instead,  the  Soviet  Union  urged 
the  Mengistu  regime  to  seek  a  negotiated  settlement  with  Eritrean 
secessionists  and  Tigrayan  rebels.  Cuba,  having  played  a  vital  role 
in  Ethiopia's  1978  victory  over  Somalia  in  the  Ogaden,  had  with- 
drawn all  its  military  personnel  from  the  country.  Moreover,  the 
dramatic  events  of  1989  in  Eastern  Europe  had  prompted  the  Ger- 
man Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany),  Czechoslovakia,  and 
Romania  to  cancel  all  military  agreements  with  the  Ethiopian 
government.  As  a  result,  Ethiopia  was  seeking  alternative  sources 
of  military  assistance  from  nations  such  as  the  Democratic  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea)  and  Israel.  This  strategy, 
however,  failed  to  enable  the  Mengistu  regime  to  defeat  the  Eritrean 
secessionists  and  Tigrayan  rebels  or  even  to  ensure  the  survival 
of  the  regime  in  the  new  decade. 

Military  Tradition  in  National  Life 

Wars,  insurrections,  and  rebellions  have  punctuated  Ethiopia's 
history.  Kings  and  nobles  raised  and  maintained  armies  to  defend 
the  "Christian  island"  against  Muslim  invasion  or  to  conquer 
neighboring  territories.  Even  after  consolidation  of  centralized 
authority  under  "Solomonic"  emperors  in  the  thirteenth  century, 
subordinate  neguses  (kings)  and  powerful  nobles,  some  of  whom  later 
carried  the  high  military  title  of  ras  (roughly,  marshal;  literally, 
head  in  Amharic),  ruled  different  regions  of  the  kingdom  and  com- 
manded their  own  armies  as  they  struggled  for  power  and  posi- 
tion. According  to  a  seventeenth-century  European,  only  nature 
could  temper  the  bellicosity  of  the  Ethiopians,  whom  he  described 
as  "a  warlike  people  and  continually  exercised  in  war"  except  dur- 
ing respites  "caused  by  the  winter,  at  which  time  by  reason  of  in- 
undation of  the  rivers  they  are  forced  to  be  quiet." 

From  the  time  of  its  establishment  in  the  thirteenth  century,  the 
Christian  kingdom  of  Ethiopia  was  fundamentally  a  warrior  soci- 
ety. Both  the  Amhara  and  the  Tigray,  the  two  dominant  peoples 
of  the  kingdom,  were  imbued  with  a  military  ethos  that  placed  great 
value  on  achievement  in  battle  and  the  spoils  to  be  gained  thereby. 
Military  values  influenced  the  political,  economic,  and  social  or- 
ganization of  the  Christian  kingdom,  while  senior  state  officers  often 
bore  military  titles.  Additionally,  military  symbolism  and  themes 
occur  frequently  in  Amhara  and  Tigray  art,  literature,  and  folk- 
lore of  the  period.  Other  ethnic  groups,  particularly  the  Oromo, 
also  had  warrior  traditions  and  admired  courage  in  combat, 
although  the  social  systems  that  encouraged  these  values  differed 
substantially  from  those  of  the  Amhara  and  the  Tigray. 


270 


National  Security 


Generally,  soldiering  has  been  the  surest  path  to  social  advance- 
ment and  economic  reward  in  Ethiopia.  Kings  and  nobles  tradi- 
tionally awarded  land,  titles,  and  political  appointments  to  those 
who  proved  their  loyalty,  competence,  and  courage  on  the  battle- 
field. As  a  result,  warriors  traditionally  gave  allegiance  to  that  com- 
mander who  could  assure  the  fruits  of  victory  to  his  followers,  rather 
than  to  an  abstract  notion  of  the  state  or  to  government  authority. 

In  early  times,  the  army's  command  structure,  like  the  nation's 
social  structure,  resembled  a  pyramid  with  the  emperor  at  its  apex 
as  supreme  military  leader.  In  the  field,  a  hierarchy  of  warlords 
led  the  army.  Each  was  subordinate  to  a  warlord  of  a  higher  rank 
and  commanded  others  at  a  lower  rank  according  to  a  system  of 
vertical  personal  loyalties  that  bound  them  all  to  the  emperor.  At 
each  command  level,  the  military  drew  troops  from  three  sources. 
Each  warlord,  from  the  emperor  to  a  minor  noble,  had  a  standing 
corps  of  armed  retainers  that  varied  in  size  according  to  the  lead- 
er's importance.  Many  landholders  also  served  several  months  each 
year  in  the  local  lord's  retinue  in  lieu  of  paying  taxes.  Most  troops, 
however,  came  from  the  mass  of  able-bodied  adult  freemen,  clergy 
alone  excepted,  who  could  be  summoned  by  proclamation  on  an 
ad  hoc  basis  when  and  where  their  service  was  required. 

Each  man  provided  his  own  weapon  and  was  expected  to  ac- 
quire skill  in  its  use  on  his  own  initiative.  He  brought  his  own  food 
for  the  march  or  foraged  en  route.  Often  a  soldier  brought  his  wife 
or  a  female  servant  to  cook  and  tend  mules.  Indeed,  the  authori- 
ties recognized  women  as  an  integral  part  of  the  Ethiopian  army 
insofar  as  many  officers  believed  that  their  presence  discouraged 
cowardice  among  the  men.  More  important,  women  formed  an 
unofficial  quartermaster  corps  because  men  believed  it  was  beneath 
their  dignity  to  prepare  food. 

In  an  environment  in  which  war  was  the  government's  regular 
business,  the  mobile  army  camp  became  the  capital  of  its  leader, 
whether  emperor,  negus,  or  ras.  Only  rarely  before  the  late  nine- 
teenth century  did  a  ruler  maintain  his  court  at  a  fixed  location 
throughout  the  year.  Constantly  moving  over  his  domain,  a  ruler 
took  his  court  with  him,  issuing  laws  and  decrees  from  the  army 
camp,  collecting  and  consuming  taxes  paid  in  kind,  and  supervis- 
ing trade.  So  integrated  was  military  command  with  government 
that  army  officers  also  functioned  in  civil  capacities. 

The  organization  of  military  camps  remained  virtually  unchanged 
for  centuries.  In  the  royal  camp,  the  emperor's  tent,  customarily 
pitched  on  an  elevation,  marked  the  center  of  the  encampment. 
The  tents  of  his  immediate  retinue  surrounded  the  royal  tent.  The 
bodyguard  was  posted  in  front  of  the  camp,  thus  indicating  the 


271 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

direction  of  march.  The  highest  ranking  subordinate  in  the  royal 
army  was  the  dejazmatch  (general  of  the  door),  who  was  in  charge 
of  the  center  of  the  battle  formation.  The  gannazmatch  (general  of 
the  right  wing)  and  the  gerazmatch  (general  of  the  left  wing)  and 
their  troops  camped  to  the  right  and  left,  respectively.  At  the  rear 
of  the  main  encampment  was  the  rear  guard,  whose  commander 
usually  was  a  trustworthy  counselor  and  the  leader's  chief  minister. 
Subordinate  warlords  and  their  troops  camped  around  the  em- 
peror's compound  in  small-scale  replicas  of  the  royal  camp.  The 
advance  guard  was  a  standard  feature  of  this  mobile  army,  and 
in  times  of  war  it  might  travel  several  days'  march  ahead  of  the 
main  body. 

Although  infantrymen  made  up  the  bulk  of  the  army,  cavalry 
participated  in  most  military  operations.  The  standard  attack  for- 
mation was  a  crescent- shaped  mass  of  foot  soldiers  in  which  both 
wings  advanced  to  outflank  and  envelop  the  enemy's  defenses.  Once 
engaged,  the  individual  soldier  was  the  army's  basic  fighting  unit, 
and  a  final  charge  to  bring  the  enemy  to  hand-to-hand  combat 
usually  decided  a  battle.  Mutilating  slain  enemies  and  abandon- 
ing the  wounded  and  dead  on  the  batdefield  were  accepted  practices. 

Leadership,  especially  among  emperors  and  powerful  nobles,  was 
intensely  personal,  and  commanders  at  all  levels  led  their  men  in 
combat.  Success  or  failure  often  depended  on  the  leader's  fate;  upon 
his  death,  whole  armies  frequently  scattered  and  fled. 

The  army  lived  off  the  ruler's  subjects  wherever  it  camped  in 
his  domain.  When  troops  exhausted  food  and  firewood,  they  struck 
their  tents  and  moved  on.  Often,  soldiers  turned  to  brigandage. 
During  Emperor  Menelik  II' s  reign  (1889-1913),  for  example, 
many  Ethiopians  complained  that  soldiers  "eat,  drink,  sleep,  and 
grow  fat  at  the  expense  of  what  the  poor  have."  Popular  feeling 
against  the  military  was  strong  in  newly  conquered  territories,  where 
at  least  a  portion  of  the  army  would  settle  as  colonists.  The  grant- 
ing of  tracts  of  conquered  land  to  soldiers  survived  into  the  1930s. 
Soldiers  benefiting  from  this  system  became  the  landlords  and  the 
tax  collectors  in  areas  they  had  conquered.  Not  surprisingly,  the 
army's  demands  on  local  populations  often  prompted  rebellions. 

The  titles  of  rank  in  the  traditional  military  system  indicated  po- 
sition in  society  at  large.  Soldiers  won  promotions — and  therefore 
enhancement  of  their  social  status — by  demonstrating  military  abil- 
ity. Titles  were  not  inherited,  and  distinctions  had  to  be  earned. 
Even  those  starting  at  the  bottom  of  the  social  scale  could  attain 
wealth  and  position  if  they  could  draw  attention  to  themselves  by 
displays  of  loyalty,  valor,  and  ruthlessness.  The  traditional  system's 
strength  and  weakness  lay  in  the  fact  that  every  warrior  strove  to 


272 


National  Security 


become  great  and  as  such  saw  himself  the  potential  equal  of  the 
greatest  warrior  or  noble. 

Modernization  of  the  Ethiopian  army  started  during  the  regency 
of  Tafari  Mekonnen  (who  took  the  throne  name  of  Haile  Selassie 
I  when  crowned  emperor  in  1930).  In  1917  he  formed  the  Imper- 
ial Bodyguard  as  a  regular  standing  force,  recruiting  into  it  some 
Ethiopian  veterans  of  the  British  campaign  in  German  East  Africa 
(present-day  Tanzania).  The  regent  also  hired  foreign  officers  to 
develop  training  programs  (see  Training,  this  ch.).  In  the  1920s, 
he  sent  Ethiopian  officers  to  the  French  military  academy  at  Saint- 
Cyr  and  arranged  for  a  Belgian  military  mission  to  train  the  Imperial 
Bodyguard.  In  January  1935,  with  Swedish  assistance,  Ethiopia 
established  a  military  school  at  Holeta  to  turn  out  officers  quali- 
fied in  modern  techniques.  The  first  class,  which  had  been  sched- 
uled to  complete  a  sixteen-month  course,  never  graduated  because 
of  mounting  tensions  with  Ethiopia's  nemesis,  Italy,  this  time  under 
the  fascist  leadership  of  Benito  Mussolini. 

When  Mussolini's  forces  crossed  into  Ethiopia  from  the  Italian 
colony  of  Eritrea  and  from  Italian  Somaliland  in  1935  without  a 
declaration  of  war,  provincial  armies  raised  by  the  nobility  moved 
and  fought  against  the  mechanized  Italian  forces  in  traditional 
fashion.  Haile  Selassie's  mobilization  order  typified  the  Ethiopian 
way  of  waging  war:  everyone  would  be  mobilized,  and  all  males 
old  enough  to  carry  a  spear  would  be  sent  to  Addis  Ababa.  Mar- 
ried men  would  bring  their  wives  to  carry  food  and  to  cook.  Those 
without  wives  would  take  any  woman  without  a  husband.  Women 
with  small  babies  were  not  required  to  go.  Men  who  were  blind 
or  who  could  not  carry  a  spear  were  exempted. 

At  the  time  of  the  Italian  invasion,  the  regular  Ethiopian  army 
had  only  a  few  units  trained  in  European  warfare  and  led  by  officers 
schooled  in  modern  fighting.  These  included  the  Imperial  Bodyguard 
and  the  Harer  garrison.  About  5,000  strong  in  combat  against  the 
Italians,  many  of  these  troops  failed  to  implement  tactics  they  had 
learned  during  training  exercises.  Most  of  the  army  that  opposed 
the  Italian  invasion  consisted  of  traditional  warriors  from  the  provin- 
cial militia,  armed  with  spears  and  obsolete  rifles  and  led  by  the 
provincial  nobility.  Even  the  25,000-member  regular  army  marched 
barefoot  and  lacked  a  logistical  support  system.  By  early  1936,  the 
Italians — who  used  chemical  weapons  and  air  power  with  deadly 
accuracy — had  inflicted  a  severe  defeat  on  the  Ethiopians. 

After  the  country's  liberation  by  allied  forces  in  1941,  Haile 
Selassie  started  to  transform  Ethiopia  into  a  centralized  monar- 
chical state.  The  creation  of  a  strong  national  army  was  an  impor- 
tant part  of  that  transformation.  The  imperial  regime  abolished 


273 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

the  ancient  military  hierarchy  and  abandoned  the  traditional  method 
of  raising  armies  by  provincial  levies.  In  1942  the  emperor  signed 
a  military  convention  with  London  under  which  the  British  govern- 
ment agreed  to  provide  a  military  mission  to  assist  in  organizing 
and  training  an  army  that  would  be  capable  of  restoring  order 
throughout  the  country.  Under  the  terms  of  the  convention,  the 
British  assumed  responsibility  for  policing  Addis  Ababa  and  for 
exercising  military  control  over  the  country's  principal  towns  (see 
Foreign  Military  Assistance,  this  ch.). 

Another  aspect  of  Haile  Selassie's  transformation  strategy  was 
the  creation  of  the  Territorial  Army,  whose  mission  was  to  disarm 
the  numerous  guerrilla  bands  that  were  roaming  the  countryside 
after  the  war  and  engaging  in  banditry.  The  emperor  authorized 
the  recruitment  of  many  shifta  (bandits)  into  the  Territorial  Army, 
provided  they  brought  their  weapons  with  them.  The  Territorial 
Army  was  never  anything  more  than  a  loosely  organized  auxiliary 
forces;  when  and  where  it  existed,  it  served  mostly  to  aid  in  local 
police  work  and  not  in  national  defense. 

In  the  immediate  postwar  period,  the  Ethiopian  government  ex- 
pended about  40  percent  of  its  annual  budget  on  defense  and  in- 
ternal security.  Haile  Selassie  also  diversified  his  sources  of  foreign 
military  assistance.  Over  several  years,  he  appointed  Swedish 
officers  to  train  Ethiopia's  air  force,  asked  Norwegian  naval  per- 
sonnel to  organize  and  develop  a  small  coastal  navy,  signed  a  mili- 
tary assistance  agreement  with  the  United  States,  invited  Israeli 
advisers  to  train  paratroopers  and  counterinsurgency  units,  and 
arranged  for  an  Indian  military  mission  to  staff  the  faculty  of  the 
military  academy  at  Harer.  During  this  period,  a  number  of  Ethio- 
pian officers  attended  military  schools  in  the  United  States,  Brit- 
ain, and  Yugoslavia  (see  Training,  this  ch.). 

After  their  modernization,  Ethiopia's  security  forces  saw  action 
in  several  foreign  conflicts.  For  example,  upon  the  outbreak  of  the 
Korean  War  in  June  1950,  Haile  Selassie  raised  a  volunteer  bat- 
talion from  the  Imperial  Bodyguard  and  authorized  its  deployment 
to  Korea  with  the  United  Nations  (UN)  forces.  The  Kagnew  Bat- 
talion, as  the  unit  was  known,  reached  Korea  the  next  year  and 
joined  the  United  States  Seventh  Division.  Before  the  1953  cease- 
fire, three  Ethiopian  battalions,  totaling  5,000  men,  had  rotated 
to  Korea,  where  they  fought  with  distinction. 

From  1960  to  1964,  some  3,000  Imperial  Bodyguard  person- 
nel— about  10  percent  of  the  Ethiopian  army's  entire  strength  at 
that  time — and  part  of  an  air  force  squadron  served  with  the  UN 
peacekeeping  force  in  the  Congo  (present-day  Zaire).  In  1967  four 
Ethiopian  air  force  F-86  fighter-bombers  were  deployed  to  Zaire 


274 


Haile  Selassie  I  inspects  Ethiopian  troops  before  their  departure  to 
join  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping  force  in  the 
former  Belgian  Congo  in  1960. 
Courtesy  United  Nations 

to  help  dislodge  a  concentration  of  European  mercenaries  fighting 
there  on  behalf  of  secessionists  in  Katanga  Province  (present-day 
Shaba  Region). 

The  reforms  instituted  by  Haile  Selassie,  including  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  relatively  large  professional  standing  army,  separated 
military  and  civilian  functions  in  a  way  that  was  unique  in  the  coun- 
try's  history.  By  1974  much  of  the  population  maintained  an  am- 
bivalent attitude  toward  the  reorganized  and  modernized  military 
establishment.  On  the  one  hand,  civilians,  many  of  whom  were 
university  students,  often  complained  that  the  military  drained  the 
national  budget  and  failed  to  help  the  country  develop.  On  the  other 
hand,  many  Ethiopians  expressed  pride  in  the  armed  forces'  abil- 
ity to  maintain  the  country's  territorial  integrity.  Much  of  the 
civilian  sector  also  believed  that  the  military  represented  the  best 
chance  for  change  in  Ethiopia. 

After  the  1974  revolution,  the  Provisional  Military  Administra- 
tive Council  (PMAC;  also  known  as  the  Derg — see  Glossary)  desig- 
nated the  armed  forces  as  the  "vanguard  of  the  revolution"  and 
apparently  had  expectations  that  military  personnel  would  become 
involved  in  social  and  economic  development  programs.  The  drain 


275 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

on  manpower  and  materiel  caused  by  the  wars  in  Eritrea,  Tigray, 
and  the  Ogaden  prevented  the  realization  of  this  objective.  How- 
ever, military  cadres  became  active  in  peasant  associations,  politi- 
cal organizing,  drought  relief,  and  other  duties  once  assigned  to 
the  regular  police.  The  army  also  undertook  projects  to  improve 
the  country's  transportation  infrastructure. 

Despite  the  repressiveness  of  the  Mengistu  regime,  public  demon- 
strations of  discontent  with  the  armed  forces  grew  in  frequency  in 
the  1980s.  The  army's  inability  to  achieve  victory  in  Eritrea  and 
Tigray  disillusioned  many  who  had  supported  the  1974  revolution, 
and  the  conflicts  in  north-central  Ethiopia  caused  divisions  within 
the  military  itself.  On  May  16,  1989,  a  group  of  senior  officers 
attempted  a  coup  against  President  Mengistu.  The  coup  failed,  but 
it  was  a  key  factor  in  the  fall  of  the  military  government  in  late 
May  1991. 

The  Armed  Forces 

In  mid- 1991  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces,  with  about  438,000 
personnel  in  uniform,  constituted  one  of  the  largest  and  best- 
equipped  militaries  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  The  defense  establish- 
ment included  the  230,000-member  conscript  army,  supplement- 
ed by  the  200,000-member  People's  Militia;  the  air  force,  with  a 
personnel  strength  of  4,500;  and  the  navy,  with  a  personnel  strength 
of  3,500,  which  included  a  marine  contingent.  Not  included  in  these 
figures  were  the  9,000-member  Mobile  Emergency  Police  Force 
and  an  unknown  number  of  border  guards.  In  addition  to  its  duties 
as  protector  of  the  country's  territorial  integrity,  the  armed  forces 
engaged  in  internal  security  and  counterinsurgency  operations 
against  the  government's  political  opponents. 

The  1987  Constitution  and  the  Armed  Forces 

The  constitution,  which  took  effect  on  February  22,  1987,  made 
several  explicit  references  to  the  history,  missions,  and  organiza- 
tion of  the  armed  forces.  The  preamble  took  note  of  Ethiopia's 
"great  victory  at  Adwa  over  [Italy's]  modern  colonialist  army" 
and  recalled  that  "the  army,  being  an  integral  part  of  the  peo- 
ple .  .  .  [laid]  .  .  .  the  foundations  of  the  new  people's  system  by 
eliminating  the  monarchy  and  taking  various  revolutionary  steps. ' ' 
Chapter  4  of  the  constitution  was  devoted  to  defense  issues.  It  called 
for  the  government,  through  its  defense  force,  to  defend  and  safe- 
guard the  revolution,  and  it  reminded  the  people  that  these  duties 
were  their  responsibilities.  Accordingly,  the  constitution  stated  that 
the  government  would  implement  national  service,  and  in  a  later 
chapter  it  stipulated  that  "national  military  service  is  the  right  and 


276 


National  Security 


obligation  of  every  Ethiopian.  Its  implementation  shall  be  decided 
on  by  law." 

In  terms  of  civilian  control  of  the  armed  forces,  the  constitution 
stated  that  the  highest  body  in  the  government,  the  National  Shengo 
(National  Assembly),  was  responsible  for  determining  defense  and 
security  policy  and  for  declaring  states  of  war  and  peace.  Subor- 
dinate to  this  body  was  the  Council  of  State,  charged  with  im- 
plementing decisions  of  the  National  Shengo.  The  president  of  the 
Council  of  State  was  also  the  president  of  Ethiopia  and  commander 
in  chief  of  the  armed  forces.  The  Council  of  State  was  empowered 
to  establish  a  national-level  Defense  Council  (whose  duties  and 
responsibilities  were  not,  however,  spelled  out).  The  president 
chaired  the  Defense  Council  and  appointed  its  members.  He  also 
was  entitled  to  "appoint  senior  state,  civil,  and  military  ranks." 

Command  and  Force  Structure 

Political  requirements  largely  determined  the  military's  organiza- 
tional structure  in  the  first  years  after  the  1974  revolution.  Begin- 
ning in  1977,  the  military  adopted  Soviet  command  procedures, 
which  reflected  Moscow's  influence.  It  should  be  pointed  out, 
however,  that  Mengistu  made  all  major  military  decisions  in  his 
capacity  as  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces. 

Military  policy  and  all  important  decisions  emanated  from 
PMAC  committees  designated  to  deal  with  political  and  military 
affairs,  defense,  militia  affairs,  and  security.  The  Council  of 
Ministers,  through  the  ministries  of  defense,  interior,  and  public 
and  national  security,  administered  national  security  policy.  The 
armed  forces  chain  of  command  ran  from  the  PMAC  through  the 
Ministry  of  Defense  to  the  chiefs  of  staff  of  the  army,  air  force, 
and  navy  and  through  the  Ministry  of  Interior  to  the  chief  of  the 
People's  Militia.  Service  commanders,  who  operated  from  individ- 
ual headquarters  without  an  intermediate  chairman,  reported  di- 
rectly to  Mengistu.  Four  regional  commanders  coordinated  joint 
operations. 

In  August  1977,  the  PMAC  established  the  National  Revolu- 
tionary Operations  Command  (NROC)  in  response  to  unrest  in 
the  armed  forces,  political  resistance  from  leftist  opponents  of  the 
regime,  and  the  deteriorating  situation  in  Eritrea  and  the  Ogaden. 
The  NROC  replaced  the  revolution  and  development  committees 
founded  earlier  in  1977  to  mobilize  militia  units  on  a  regional  basis 
and  to  direct  regional  security  operations  against  "reactionaries." 
Although  the  new  command  initially  coordinated  the  recruiting, 
training,  and  equipping  of  the  People's  Militia,  it  eventually 
emerged  as  the  central  command  structure  and  assumed  sweeping 


277 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

civilian  and  military  powers.  Headed  by  a  twenty-eight-member 
council — consisting  of  representatives  from  the  PMAC,  the  Council 
of  Ministers,  the  Provisional  Office  for  Mass  Organization  Affairs 
(POMOA),  and  the  official  All-Ethiopia  Trade  Union,  as  well  as 
the  services'  chiefs  of  staff — the  NROC  assumed  command  of  the 
armed  forces  and  responsibility  for  commandeering  resources,  pub- 
lic utilities,  and  manpower  for  the  war  effort.  Mengistu  served  as 
its  chairman. 

In  December  1977,  the  PMAC  also  created  the  Supreme  Mili- 
tary Strategic  Committee  (SMSC)  to  formulate  counterinsurgency 
strategy  for  Eritrea  and  the  Ogaden  and  to  direct  military  opera- 
tions elsewhere  in  the  country.  Subsequently,  the  SMSC  assumed 
responsibility  for  improving  the  armed  forces'  technical  efficien- 
cy. The  SMSC  included  eight  Soviet,  three  Cuban,  and  seven 
Ethiopian  representatives. 

In  April  1983,  the  government  established  the  National  Defense 
and  Security  Council,  which  was  empowered  to  devise  the  coun- 
try's military  and  civilian  defense  policies.  This  council  included 
the  head  of  state,  the  secretary  general  of  the  PMAC,  and  the 
ministers  of  defense,  interior,  and  public  and  national  security.  The 
council's  goal  was  to  improve  defense  strategies  and  coordination 
among  the  army,  the  People's  Militia,  and  the  civilian  population 
in  times  of  war  or  natural  disaster. 

Army 

Constituting  about  97  percent  of  the  uniformed  services,  the  army 
was  the  backbone  of  the  armed  forces.  In  early  1991 ,  the  army  was 
organized  into  five  revolutionary  armies,  which  included  thirty- 
one  infantry  divisions  supported  by  thirty-two  tank  battalions,  forty 
artillery  battalions,  twelve  air  defense  battalions,  and  eight  com- 
mando brigades.  The  army  had  expanded  in  size  from  41,000  in 
1974  to  50,000  in  1977,  65,000  in  1979,  and  230,000  in  early  1991 . 
Ground  order  of  battle  was  difficult  to  ascertain  because  of  the  ar- 
my's  rapid  increase  in  size,  frequent  reorganization  and  redeploy- 
ment of  units,  and  constant  reshuffling  within  the  command 
structure.  Units  from  the  200,000-member  People's  Militia  aug- 
mented army  divisions,  especially  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray.  The  First 
Revolutionary  Army  had  headquarters  in  Harer,  the  Second 
Revolutionary  Army  in  Asmera,  the  Third  Revolutionary  Army 
in  Kembolcha,  the  Fourth  Revolutionary  Army  in  Nekemte,  and 
the  Fifth  Revolutionary  Army  in  Gonder. 

Ethiopian  armored  and  mechanized  units  had  approximately 
1,200  T-54/55  tanks  and  100  T-62  tanks,  all  of  Soviet  manufac- 
ture, and  about  1,100  armored  personnel  carriers  (APCs),  most 


278 


National  Security 


of  which  were  of  Soviet  origin.  However,  combat  losses  and  con- 
stant resupply  by  the  Soviet  Union,  East  Germany,  North  Korea, 
and  other  communist  nations  reduced  the  reliability  of  these  esti- 
mates. Artillery  units  possessed  a  variety  of  Soviet-manufactured 
light  and  medium  guns  and  howitzers,  rocket  launchers,  and  heavy 
mortars.  Air  defense  units  had  quick-firing  antiaircraft  guns  and 
surface-to-air  missiles. 

Because  training  in  maintenance  techniques  had  failed  to  keep 
pace  with  the  influx  of  new  equipment,  weapons  maintenance  by 
the  army  was  poor.  Moreover,  Ethiopian  troops  often  deployed 
new  weapons  systems  without  understanding  how  to  operate  them. 
During  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  Ethiopia  relied  on  Soviet 
and  Cuban  technicians  to  maintain  military  equipment  and  to  pro- 
vide logistical  support.  However,  because  of  the  reduction  in  mili- 
tary assistance,  spare  parts,  and  Soviet  military  advisers,  as  well 
as  the  withdrawal  of  all  Cuban  troops  in  the  late  1980s,  the  army's 
maintenance  ability  again  deteriorated.  By  1991  most  army  equip- 
ment was  operational  only  about  30  percent  of  the  time. 

Air  Force 

Ethiopian  military  aviation  dates  from  1929,  when  Tafari  Mekon- 
nen  (before  he  came  to  the  throne  as  Haile  Selassie)  hired  two 
French  pilots  and  purchased  four  French  biplanes.  By  the  time  of 
the  Italian  invasion  of  1935,  the  air  force  had  four  pilots  and  thir- 
teen aircraft.  After  World  War  II,  Haile  Selassie  authorized  the 
expansion  of  the  air  force.  In  1947  he  named  a  Swedish  general 
as  air  force  commander  and  contracted  for  a  Swedish  training  team, 
equipped  with  eighteen  Saab  trainers  and  two  squadrons  of  Saab- 17 
light  bombers,  to  develop  the  air  force.  A  Swedish  officer  com- 
manded the  air  force  until  1962,  at  which  time  Brigadier  General 
Asefa  Ayene  assumed  command. 

The  1953  United  States-Ethiopian  Mutual  Defense  Assistance 
Agreement  resulted  in  the  delivery  of  a  squadron  of  F-86  jet  fight- 
ers in  1960.  Beginning  in  1966  and  continuing  until  the  early  1970s, 
the  United  States  delivered  Northrop  F-5A/B/E  fighters,  which 
became  the  mainstays  of  the  air  force  until  the  late  1970s.  Begin- 
ning in  1977,  the  Soviet  Union  supplied  aircraft  and  instructors 
to  Ethiopia. 

In  early  1991,  some  4,500  officers  and  airmen  operated  approx- 
imately 150  combat  aircraft,  most  of  them  Soviet-manufactured 
fighter-bombers.  A  small  number  of  the  aircraft  were  transports 
and  armed  helicopters.  The  air  force's  tactical  organization  included 
seven  fighter-ground  attack  squadrons,  one  transport  squadron, 
and  one  training  squadron.  Approximately  seventy-nine  helicopters 


279 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

performed  reconnaissance,  transport,  and  ground  support  missions. 
Military  analysts  generally  considered  the  air  force  competent.  Dur- 
ing the  Ogaden  War,  the  air  force  quickly  destroyed  its  Somali 
counterpart.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  air  force  had  become  vital  to 
the  Mengistu  regime's  war  effort  in  northern  Ethiopia.  According 
to  an  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF)  spokesman  in  the 
United  States,  the  air  force  was  almost  singlehandedly  preventing 
the  EPLF  from  expelling  the  army  from  Eritrea  (see  The  Eritreans, 
this  ch.).  In  fact,  most  rebel  organizations  in  north-central  Ethio- 
pia confined  their  activities  to  nighttime  because  of  the  daytime 
threat  posed  by  the  air  force. 

Apart  from  its  performance  as  a  military  unit,  the  air  force  often 
has  been  involved  in  antigovernment  activities.  In  May  1989,  for 
example,  several  senior  air  force  officers  participated  in  a  coup  at- 
tempt against  Mengistu.  The  purge  that  followed  this  action  deci- 
mated the  service's  leadership  ranks.  Mengistu  not  only  replaced 
many  senior  officers  but  also  temporarily  grounded  the  air  force. 
Within  a  few  weeks,  the  combat  victories  of  the  rebels  forced  Men- 
gistu to  rescind  his  grounding  order.  By  1991  it  was  evident  that 
the  air  force  was  suffering  from  low  morale  and  that  internal  divi- 
sions continued  to  plague  its  units. 

The  air  force's  command  headquarters  was  south  of  Addis  Ababa 
at  Debre  Zeyit,  the  site  of  the  major  air  base,  training  center,  and 
maintenance  workshop.  Other  air  bases  were  at  Asmera,  Bahir  Dar, 
Azezo,  Goba,  Dire  Dawa,  and  Jijiga.  (A  base  at  Mekele  had  been 
captured  by  the  Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  in  1989.) 

Navy 

In  1958  the  Ethiopian  navy  became  an  autonomous  branch  of 
the  armed  forces,  operating  as  a  coast  guard  within  the  territorial 
waters  off  Eritrea.  Until  1974  a  small  contingent  of  retired  British 
naval  personnel  served  as  advisers  and  training  supervisors.  In  1974 
Addis  Ababa  and  Oslo  signed  an  agreement  whereby  Norway  or- 
ganized and  trained  a  modest  maritime  force.  Starting  in  1978, 
Soviet  advisers  were  attached  to  the  Ethiopian  navy. 

In  early  1991,  Ethiopia's  3,500-member  navy  remained  modest 
and  had  seen  little  combat.  Its  inventory  included  two  frigates,  eight 
missile  craft,  six  torpedo  craft,  six  patrol  boats,  two  amphibious 
craft,  and  two  support/training  craft. 

Ethiopia's  principal  naval  bases  were  at  Mitsiwa  and  Aseb.  The 
base  at  Aseb  included  a  ship-repair  facility.  In  the  past,  the  navy 
had  cooperated  with  elements  of  the  Soviet  fleet  operating  in  the 
Red  Sea.  Soviet  naval  vessels  also  made  frequent  calls  at  Ethiopian 
ports  to  resupply  and  refit.  Moreover,  the  Soviet  Union  maintained 


280 


National  Security 


naval  facilities  in  the  Dahlak  Islands  off  the  coast  of  Eritrea.  The 
Soviet  Union  had  an  anchorage  and  stationed  a  naval  infantry 
detachment  there;  it  reportedly  also  operated  intelligence  facilities 
there.  After  they  were  expelled  from  Somalia  in  1977  for  siding 
with  Ethiopia,  Soviet  personnel  moved  a  dry  dock  they  had  oper- 
ated at  Berbera  in  Somalia  to  Aseb  and  later  positioned  it  off  the 
coast  in  the  Dahlak  Islands.  At  one  time,  they  also  had  several  11-38 
maritime  reconnaissance  aircraft  stationed  at  Asmera,  but  by  1989 
these  aircraft  had  been  moved  to  Aden  because  the  EPLF  had  de- 
stroyed one  of  the  Soviet  aircraft  in  a  daring  raid. 

People's  Militia 

Proclamation  No.  71,  issued  by  the  Derg  in  1975,  established 
the  People's  Militia  to  "safeguard  the  revolution."  The  govern- 
ment intended  to  raise  a  representative  force  on  a  regional  basis 
to  carry  out  police  duties,  to  protect  collectivized  property  and  crops, 
and  to  enforce  the  decisions  of  peasant  association  tribunals. 
However,  the  militia  remained  largely  a  rural  organization,  despite 
the  fact  that  Addis  Ababa  had  directed  urban  dwellers'  associa- 
tions (kebeles — see  Glossary)  and  workers'  associations  to  "elect" 
constituents  to  serve  in  the  militia. 

In  May  1976,  the  government  conscripted  30,000  to  40,000 
peasants  into  the  People's  Militia  from  the  predominantly  Amhara 
areas  of  Shewa,  Welo,  and  Gojam.  After  only  two  weeks  of  train- 
ing, Addis  Ababa  dispatched  the  militia,  armed  with  World  War 
II- vintage  rifles,  to  Eritrea.  There,  the  militia's  mission  was  to  repel 
the  "invading  Arab  infidel."  A  month  later,  Eritrean  guerrillas, 
carrying  relatively  modern  arms,  decimated  this  force  by  launch- 
ing a  preemptive  attack  on  the  Zela  Anbesa  militia  camp.  In  the 
spring  of  1977,  Mengistu  reconstituted  the  People's  Militia  as  the 
so-called  Red  Army  and  authorized  its  expansion.  He  armed  the 
militia  with  modern  weapons  and  ordered  all  conscripts  to  under- 
go a  twelve-week  basic  training  and  weapons  familiarization  course 
at  camps  in  Tatek,  Shashemene,  Awash,  Fiche,  and  Azezo.  The 
government  then  deployed  People's  Militia  units  to  Eritrea  and 
the  Ogaden  to  serve  with  the  regular  army.  This  decision  proved 
to  be  disastrous  because,  in  fighting  against  Eritrean  guerrillas  in 
northern  Ethiopia  and  against  the  Somali  National  Army  in  the 
Ogaden,  the  People's  Militia  suffered  heavy  casualties.  On  occa- 
sion, antigovernment  elements  in  the  militia  experienced  bloody 
confrontations  with  Ethiopian  army  regulars  (see  Morale  and  Dis- 
cipline, this  ch.).  In  addition,  captured  militiamen  often  denounced 
the  government's  military  strategy  to  foreign  journalists. 


281 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

By  1980  the  People's  Militia  numbered  150,000  troops  organized 
into  ten  divisions.  Those  assigned  to  Eritrea  were  known  as  the 
Northern  People's  Divisions;  those  in  the  Ogaden  were  known  as 
the  Eastern  People's  Divisions.  Militia  units  were  usually  equipped 
with  AK-47  rifles  and  rocket-propelled  grenade  launchers,  and  most 
units  possessed  mortars  and  antitank  weapons.  Cuban  advisers 
provided  infantry  and  artillery  training. 

During  the  early  and  mid-1980s,  the  People's  Militia  declined 
in  importance,  largely  because  of  increased  pressure  for  equal  pay 
and  survivor  benefits.  The  May  1983  enactment  of  the  National 
Military  Service  Proclamation  required  all  able-bodied  Ethiopian 
men  aged  eighteen  to  thirty  to  undergo  six  months  of  military  train- 
ing followed  by  two  years  of  active  duty.  After  their  terms  of  ac- 
tive duty  ended,  these  men  would  be  placed  on  reserve  status  until 
age  fifty.  National  military  service  negated  the  necessity  for  the 
large-scale  militia  call-ups  that  had  been  common  in  the  late  1970s. 
Nevertheless,  the  government  continued  training  militia  recruits, 
especially  from  resettlement  villages  in  frontier  areas  such  as  Asosa 
in  Welega  (see  The  Politics  of  Resettlement,  ch.  4). 

By  1991  the  People's  Militia  numbered  about  200,000  but  no 
longer  had  to  contend  with  a  serious  threat  in  the  Ogaden.  How- 
ever, the  deteriorating  situation  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray  required  that 
militia  units  support  the  regular  army's  counterinsurgency  opera- 
tions. At  the  end  of  1989,  Addis  Ababa  mobilized  the  militia  to 
stop  the  advance  of  the  Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  and  the 
Ethiopian  People's  Democratic  Movement.  These  and  several  other 
groups  had  joined  forces  and  became  known  as  the  Ethiopian  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Democratic  Front. 

Training 

Systematic  military  training  in  Ethiopia  began  in  1919  when, 
as  regent,  Tafari  Mekonnen  appointed  a  small  group  of  Russian 
officers  and  some  Ethiopians  who  had  served  in  the  British-led 
King's  African  Rifles  to  train  Ethiopian  troops.  Some  Ethiopian 
officers  subsequently  received  instruction  in  France  at  the  Saint- 
Cyr  military  academy.  Between  1929  and  1935,  a  Belgian  mili- 
tary mission  trained  the  Imperial  Bodyguard.  In  1934  a  Swedish 
delegation  of  five  officers  was  invited  to  Ethiopia  to  open  the  Haile 
Selassie  I  Military  Training  Center  at  Holeta  (also  known  as  Genet 
Military  School).  Although  this  training  helped  Ethiopia  field  an 
army  to  resist  the  Italian  invasion,  the  development  of  a  modern 
army  started  only  after  liberation  from  Italian  occupation  in  1941, 
with  British  advisers  primarily  responsible  for  the  training.  Under 
a  1942  convention,  Britain  engaged  in  a  ten-year  military  training 


282 


National  Security 


mission  to  Ethiopia.  In  1946,  however,  Addis  Ababa  diluted  Brit- 
ish influence  somewhat  by  accepting  a  new  team  of  Swedish  mili- 
tary advisers.  In  1953  a  United  States  Military  Assistance  Advisory 
Group  arrived  in  Ethiopia  to  train  various  branches  of  the  Ethio- 
pian security  forces.  Four  years  later,  an  Indian  military  mission 
came  to  establish  and  manage  the  Haile  Selassie  I  Military  Academy 
at  Harer. 

In  1991  there  were  five  major  military  schools  in  Ethiopia,  in- 
cluding the  Harer  Military  Academy  (formerly  known  as  the  Haile 
Selassie  I  Military  Academy),  the  Holeta  Military  Training  Center, 
the  Air  Force  Training  Center  at  Debre  Zeyit,  and  the  Naval  Col- 
lege in  Asmera. 

In  October  1987,  the  Ethiopian  government  announced  the  open- 
ing of  the  Armed  Forces  Staff  Academy  near  Addis  Ababa.  Accord- 
ing to  an  official  statement,  the  academy's  student  body  included 
senior  officers  (generals  and  colonels)  from  all  branches  of  the  armed 
forces.  During  the  academy's  year-long  course,  officers  studied  and 
conducted  research  on  national  defense  issues.  Initially,  Soviet  per- 
sonnel staffed  the  academy's  faculty;  however,  Addis  Ababa 
planned  to  replace  them  eventually  with  Ethiopian  instructors. 

The  Harer  Military  Academy  provided  a  three-year  academic 
and  military  course  for  officer  cadets.  Military  instruction  included 
tactics,  political  indoctrination,  engineering,  intelligence,  and  secu- 
rity. Academic  courses  included  physical  and  social  sciences,  pub- 
lic administration,  and  foreign  languages,  such  as  Russian  and 
English.  Graduates  received  commissions  as  second  lieutenants, 
and  they  were  eligible  to  receive  the  equivalent  of  a  bachelor's  degree 
after  completing  one  year  of  additional  study  at  Addis  Ababa 
University.  The  Holeta  Military  Training  Center  also  conferred 
commissions  as  second  lieutenants  on  students  who  had  completed 
courses  lasting  from  six  to  nine  months  that  were  devoted  to  mili- 
tary subjects.  Holeta' s  officer  candidates  normally  were  promis- 
ing noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs)  or  volunteers  who  lacked 
a  secondary  school  education. 

Before  1974,  Harer  graduates  belonged  to  a  ''military  aristoc- 
racy," which  monopolized  high-ranking  army  positions.  By  con- 
trast, Holeta  graduates  were  reputed  to  be  the  products  of  an  inferior 
education  and  were  considered  the  "poor  cousins"  of  the  officer 
corps.  Few  of  them  ever  rose  higher  than  the  middle  ranks.  But 
after  the  1974  revolution,  Holeta  graduates  began  to  establish  their 
dominance  over  the  army  and  expelled  many  Harer  graduates,  in- 
cluding those  who  had  been  members  of  various  armed  forces  com- 
mittees at  the  beginning  of  the  revolution. 


283 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Although  the  two  officer  training  installations  had  maintained 
separate  facilities  and  programs,  they  merged  after  1974  and  were 
subsequendy  operated  as  branches  of  the  Genet  Military  Academy. 
This  training  complex,  initially  staffed  by  Soviet  and  Cuban  in- 
structors, also  incorporated  advanced  infantry,  armor,  artillery, 
and  communications  schools  for  officers. 

The  Air  Force  Training  Center  at  Debre  Zeyit  offered  cadets 
a  four-year  course  of  study  and  training.  Officer  candidates,  all 
of  whom  were  volunteers,  underwent  four  months  of  basic  mili- 
tary training  and,  upon  entering  the  academy,  signed  a  ten-year 
service  contract.  Separate  curricula  led  to  degrees  in  aeronautical 
engineering,  electrical  engineering,  and  administration.  Graduates 
received  commissions  as  second  lieutenants.  Those  selected  as  pilots 
attended  a  flight  training  program  at  Dire  Dawa.  In  1984  Dornier, 
the  West  German  aircraft  manufacturer,  provided  pilot  training 
at  Debre  Zeyit.  Pilots  and  mechanics  also  received  training  in  Brit- 
ain. The  air  force  operated  technical  schools  for  enlisted  person- 
nel at  Debre  Zeyit  that  trained  aircraft  maintenance  and  electronics 
technicians,  communications  operators,  and  weapons  specialists. 
Upon  entering  these  courses,  which  lasted  eighteen  months  to  two 
years,  recruits  committed  themselves  to  remain  on  active  duty  for 
ten  years. 

Students  at  the  Naval  College  in  Asmera  pursued  a  fifty-two- 
month  course  of  instruction  that  led  to  a  naval  science  degree  and 
a  commission  in  the  navy.  The  Naval  College  academic  curricu- 
lum was  broader  than  the  army  and  air  force  programs  and  was 
supplemented  by  training  at  sea.  In  1984  some  forty-eight  ensigns, 
belonging  to  the  twenty-fourth  graduating  class,  received  diplo- 
mas; subsequent  classes  were  of  comparable  size.  Some  naval 
officers  received  training  abroad,  notably  at  the  naval  academy  in 
Leghorn,  Italy,  and  at  the  Leningrad  naval  academy  in  the  Soviet 
Union.  The  navy  maintained  training  centers  in  the  Mitsiwa  area 
for  seamen,  technicians,  and  marines;  recruits  enlisted  for  seven 
years. 

Officers  received  specialized  in-service  instruction  at  training 
centers  throughout  the  country.  Most  of  these  centers'  staffs  included 
Soviet,  East  German,  and — until  Havana's  1989  decision  to  with- 
draw its  forces  from  Ethiopia — Cuban  advisers.  These  advanced 
schools  emphasized  preparation  for  the  supervision  of  technical  per- 
sonnel responsible  for  maintaining  Soviet-supplied  weapons,  com- 
munications equipment,  and  electronic  gear.  Senior  officers  attended 
a  two-month  command  and  leadership  course,  which,  based  on 
Marxist-Leninist  principles,  stressed  the  need  to  develop  "political 
consciousness"  in  the  ranks  as  well  as  the  technical  mastery  of 


284 


National  Security 


weapons  and  equipment.  There  also  was  instruction  in  interna- 
tional relations  and  public  speaking. 

Army  recruits  underwent  twelve  weeks  of  basic  training  before 
being  assigned  to  line  units  or  to  technical  schools  for  specialized 
training.  The  largest  technical  school  was  at  Genet,  where  NCOs 
studied  tactics,  engineering,  logistics,  and  communications.  Genet 
also  offered  courses  in  technical  and  secondary-level  academic  sub- 
jects to  a  limited  number  of  students  prior  to  their  assignment  as 
NCOs  to  operational  units.  Soviet  instructors  at  the  Genet  armory 
school  taught  six-month  advanced  courses  in  weapons  and  vehicle 
maintenance.  The  size  of  each  class  ranged  from  100  to  150  stu- 
dents. Genet  also  was  the  training  center  for  women's  army  corps 
recruits.  The  government  assigned  uniformed  political  commissars 
to  all  units  for  the  political  education  of  enlisted  personnel. 

Morale  and  Discipline 

Before  the  February  1974  unrest  that  led  to  the  ouster  of  the  em- 
peror, military  morale  was  thought  to  be  high.  Although  the  de- 
mands for  redress  of  professional  grievances  that  precipitated  the 
1974  coup  had  created  doubts  about  the  level  of  military  morale, 
the  public's  basic  respect  for  the  fighting  man  and  the  enduring 
belief  that  military  life  was  an  avenue  of  advancement  helped  sus- 
tain the  military  profession's  somewhat  diminished  stature.  Also, 
when  the  revolutionary  government  designated  the  armed  forces 
as  the  "vanguard  of  the  revolution,"  many  officers  consequently 
were  able  to  assume  senior  military  and  political  positions  relatively 
early  in  their  careers.  In  addition,  the  pay,  benefits,  and  privileges 
enjoyed  by  Ethiopian  service  personnel  gave  them  an  above- average 
standard  of  living.  Despite  the  political  turmoil  that  accompanied 
the  establishment  of  a  revolutionary  Marxist  government,  as  well 
as  the  insecurity  caused  by  purges  within  the  military  and  the 
dangers  of  combat,  military  life  still  managed  to  attract  enough 
volunteers  to  staff  the  uniformed  services. 

However,  the  uncertainties  caused  by  the  events  of  1974  and 
the  subsequent  turnover  in  command  personnel  caused  a  crisis  of 
confidence  that  would  last  until  the  introduction  of  large  numbers 
of  Soviet  and  Cuban  advisers  in  training  and  command  positions 
in  the  late  1970s.  Prolonged  exposure  to  combat  and  political  dis- 
affection contributed  to  desertion,  attacks  on  officers,  and  war-zone 
atrocities.  Incompetence  among  commanders  in  the  field  was  also 
a  problem.  For  instance,  in  1975  the  government  tried  and  executed 
several  officers  for  indiscipline  and  for  a  lack  of  military  judgment 
resulting  in  the  death  of  soldiers  in  battle.  From  1976  to  1978,  the 
command  leadership  crisis  grew  worse  because  of  the  army's  rapid 


285 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

expansion.  As  a  result  of  this  growth,  junior  officers  and  NCOs 
often  advanced  to  field- grade  rank  without  adequate  preparation. 
Purges  and  defections  by  officers  of  Eritrean  origin  were  also  fac- 
tors in  the  poor  quality  of  field  leadership.  Growing  disaffection 
throughout  the  army  prompted  several  mutinies  by  front-line  troops, 
including  one  at  Jijiga  in  1977,  during  which  officers  and  NCOs 
demanded  Mengistu's  resignation.  Further,  the  disparity  in  pay 
and  lack  of  survivor  benefits  embittered  the  People's  Militia. 

Although  the  1978  victory  over  Somalia  in  the  Ogaden  War  and 
the  Soviet  Union's  growing  support  of  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces 
enhanced  morale,  troops  in  war  zones  still  questioned  or  criticized 
the  government's  national  security  policy.  However,  a  correlation 
existed  between  the  quality  of  a  unit's  training  and  equipment  and 
the  state  of  its  morale.  The  best-trained  and  best-equipped  units — 
the  air  force  and  the  army  engineers — also  had  the  highest  morale. 

During  1978  and  1979,  the  government  reorganized  units  in 
Eritrea  and  the  Ogaden  in  an  effort  to  reduce  dissatisfaction  and 
prevent  conspiracies.  This  strategy  backfired  because  many  sol- 
diers resented  having  to  leave  their  original  units.  The  threat  of 
radical  land  reform  that  affected  the  holdings  of  military  person- 
nel also  caused  bitterness.  Additionally,  combat  units  found  it 
difficult  to  sustain  high  morale  in  a  war  of  attrition  in  Eritrea  that 
permitted  few  clear-cut  victories.  After  the  1979  government  defeat 
at  Nakfa,  troops  in  Asmera  distributed  antigovernment  pamphlets. 
Western  journalists  also  reported  that  large  numbers  of  Ethiopian 
soldiers  had  switched  sides,  deserted,  or  surrendered,  sometimes 
as  units,  without  resistance  to  the  Eritreans.  Throughout  this  period, 
Ethiopian  authorities  refused  to  recognize  the  existence  of  the  pris- 
oners of  war,  who  numbered  about  6,000,  held  by  Eritrean  seces- 
sionist forces.  To  make  matters  worse,  Mengistu  told  combatants 
who  faced  capture  by  the  enemy  to  "die  [in  battle]  or  kill  your- 
selves." 

Tension  between  regular  army  and  People's  Militia  units  existed 
on  all  fighting  fronts.  One  of  the  factors  that  led  to  the  1977  Jijiga 
mutiny  concerned  complaints  that  the  government  had  issued  better 
weapons,  including  AK-47  assault  rifles,  to  militia  units.  For  their 
part,  militia  personnel  complained  about  low  pay,  inadequate  med- 
ical attention,  and  inferior  food.  Furthermore,  they  charged  that 
regulars  often  refused  to  give  them  supporting  fire  during  com- 
bined operations. 

During  the  government's  large-scale  1982  Red  Star  campaign 
in  Eritrea,  the  EPLF  victory  further  lowered  the  morale  of  govern- 
ment forces  and  prompted  many  Ethiopian  army  units  to  mutiny. 
For  example,  in  late  October  1982  the  Ninth  Brigade,  which  was 


286 


A  patrol  boat  at  the  naval  base  at  Mitsiwa 

serving  on  the  Nakfa  front,  reported  fighting  between  mutineers 
and  loyal  troops  at  Third  Division  headquarters.  In  February  1983, 
units  stationed  at  Kudo  Felasi,  near  Adi  Ugri,  also  mutinied.  There 
was  also  unrest  among  People's  Militia  conscripts.  Throughout  the 
1982  Red  Star  campaign,  thousands  of  government  troops  fled  to 
Sudan  to  avoid  combat. 

Over  the  next  few  years,  a  series  of  battlefield  reversals,  cou- 
pled with  the  government's  refusal  to  abandon  its  goal  of  military 
victory  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray,  kept  the  armed  forces  demoralized. 
In  October  1986,  army  officers  held  prisoner  by  the  EPLF  formed 
the  Free  Ethiopia  Soldiers'  Movement.  Apart  from  distributing  anti- 
Mengistu  pamphlets  in  Ethiopia  and  abroad,  the  Free  Ethiopia 
Soldiers'  Movement  sought  "to  organize  men  in  uniform  and  pre- 
pare them  for  an  overthrow  of  the  government  and  a  search  for 
an  alliance  with  all  democratic  forces."  This  organization  also  called 
for  the  creation  of  democracy  in  Ethiopia  and  a  peaceful  resolu- 
tion of  the  Eritrean  problem. 

The  next  major  mutiny  occurred  in  mid-February  1988,  when 
elements  of  the  Second  Revolutionary  Army  revolted  in  Asmera. 
Mengistu  responded  to  this  crisis  by  making  a  much-publicized 
sixteen-day  tour  of  units  stationed  in  the  north  and  by  ordering 
the  arrest  and  execution  of  several  NCOs  and  officers,  including 
at  least  five  generals.  Morale  fell  further  after  the  EPLF  won  a 


287 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

victory  at  Afabet  in  March.  By  the  end  of  that  year,  veterans  and 
discontented  soldiers,  many  of  whom  had  war  injuries,  demon- 
strated in  Addis  Ababa  to  pressure  the  Mengistu  regime  to  end 
the  war  and  increase  veterans'  benefits.  The  government  suppressed 
the  demonstration,  killing  several  men  in  the  process. 

Continued  battlefield  setbacks  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray  through- 
out early  1989  demoralized  many  senior  officers  who  previously 
had  been  supporters  of  Mengistu 's  military  policy  in  northern  Ethio- 
pia. On  May  16,  members  of  the  armed  forces  staged  a  coup  to 
oust  Mengistu.  With  the  exception  of  the  minister  of  defense,  Major 
General  Haile  Giorgis  Habte  Mariam,  those  directly  implicated 
in  the  coup,  or  at  least  not  hostile  to  the  decision  to  oust  Mengistu, 
included  the  entire  army  command  structure  from  the  chief  of  staff 
on  down.  The  commanders  of  the  air  force  and  the  first,  second, 
third,  and  fourth  revolutionary  armies  also  supported  the  coup. 
After  returning  to  Ethiopia,  Mengistu,  who  had  been  in  East  Ger- 
many on  an  official  visit,  used  his  Presidential  Guard  and  other 
loyal  military  personnel  to  reestablish  his  authority.  Subsequently, 
he  ordered  the  arrest  or  execution  of  hundreds  of  senior  officers. 
Mengistu  then  named  many  of  his  political  supporters,  some  of 
whom  lacked  any  military  experience,  to  replace  those  who  had 
been  purged.  Although  Mengistu  succeeded  in  eliminating  effec- 
tive opposition  in  the  armed  forces  (at  least  for  the  short  term), 
morale  problems  continued  to  plague  most  military  units,  espe- 
cially those  assigned  to  war  zones  in  northern  Ethiopia,  whose  ranks 
were  often  filled  with  teenagers.  In  late  1989,  for  example,  thou- 
sands of  government  soldiers  deserted,  and  scores  of  units  disin- 
tegrated after  the  TPLF  launched  a  major  offensive. 

Manpower  Considerations 

Although  volunteers  made  up  a  large  part  of  the  regular  army, 
the  government  had  to  rely  increasingly  on  conscripts  to  fill  the 
lower  ranks.  In  mid- 1991  approximately  6  million  Ethiopian  males 
aged  eighteen  to  thirty- two  were  eligible  for  military  service.  This 
number  constituted  an  adequate  source  of  personnel  for  the  coun- 
try's defense  needs  and  in  fact  was  more  than  the  country  could 
support  logistically  or  train  effectively. 

Under  the  National  Military  Service  Proclamation  of  May  1983, 
all  Ethiopians  aged  eighteen  to  thirty  were  required  to  undergo  six 
months'  military  training  followed  by  two  years'  active  service  and 
assignment  to  reserve  status  until  age  fifty.  In  reality,  the  national 
call-up,  which  was  administered  by  regional  military  commissars, 
was  selective  rather  than  universal.  According  to  the  conscription 
law,  each  peasant  association  or  kebele  was  required  to  forward  lists 


288 


National  Security 


of  eligible  recruits  to  the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  military  com- 
missariat. The  ministry  then  would  issue  call-up  orders,  after  which 
the  peasant  associations  were  required  to  ensure  that  conscripts 
reported  for  duty. 

The  first  two  national  call-ups  occurred  in  May  1984  and  Janu- 
ary 1985.  Each  raised  about  60,000  recruits.  The  armed  forces  used 
the  first  group  mainly  for  back-up  duties  and  the  second  for  duty 
in  Eritrea.  The  EPLF  captured  many  soldiers  belonging  to  the  sec- 
ond group  around  the  Nakfa  front.  The  third  national  call-up,  which 
sought  to  recruit  120,000  men,  took  place  in  December  1985.  Grow- 
ing public  disaffection  with  the  wars  in  northern  Ethiopia  manifested 
itself  in  popular  resistance  to  the  call-up.  Many  young  men  moved 
in  with  relatives  outside  the  kebeles  where  they  were  registered.  To 
prevent  desertions,  the  government  sent  conscripts  from  Addis 
Ababa  to  training  camps  in  outlying  regions  such  as  Kefa  and 
Welega  and  transported  Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  recruits  by  air  to 
Addis  Ababa. 

After  the  November  1986  national  call-up,  which  also  prompted 
widespread  opposition,  the  Mengistu  regime  increasingly  had  to 
resort  to  force  to  satisfy  military  manpower  requirements.  In 
mid- 1989,  for  example,  armed  press  gangs  often  roamed  the  streets 
of  Addis  Ababa  and  other  major  cities  looking  for  males  as  young 
as  thirteen  years  old,  or  they  held  families  at  the  local  kebele  office 
and  then  inducted  their  sons  when  family  members  went  to  the 
authorities  to  report  their  relatives  missing.  Parents  who  could  af- 
ford to  do  so  sent  their  sons  abroad  or  to  remote  areas  in  Ethiopia 
where  chances  of  escaping  the  call-up  were  greater. 

A  number  of  debilitating  conditions,  such  as  dietary  deficien- 
cies, endemic  diseases,  and  illiteracy,  often  affected  the  quality  of 
the  available  manpower.  Despite  these  factors,  the  average  soldier, 
with  proper  training  and  guidance,  appeared  capable  of  using 
modern  equipment. 

The  ratio  of  officers  to  enlisted  personnel  was  approximately  one 
to  twenty.  Officers  generally  were  committed  to  active  service  until 
they  retired  or  were  released  from  duty  because  of  incapacity.  Re- 
tirement benefits  were  modest,  but  officers  received  many  perqui- 
sites, particularly  in  housing  and  transportation. 

At  the  time  of  the  1974  overthrow  of  Haile  Selassie,  a  genera- 
tional cleavage  existed  between  older,  conservative  field- grade 
officers  and  younger,  better- trained,  and  increasingly  radical  officers 
who  had  joined  the  military  in  the  1950s  and  1960s.  Another  fac- 
tor in  these  differences  was  the  variety  of  countries  in  which  Ethio- 
pian officers  had  been  trained.  By  1989  this  problem  had 
diminished,  as  an  increasing  number  of  officers  had  the  shared 


289 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

experience  of  being  trained  by  Soviet,  East  German,  or  Cuban  mili- 
tary advisers.  However,  opposition  to  Mengistu  and  the  wars  in 
northern  Ethiopia  continued  to  cause  cleavages  throughout  the 
armed  forces. 

The  officer  corps  was  composed  largely  of  volunteers  and  included 
many  who  had  risen  from  the  enlisted  ranks.  Since  the  early  1950s, 
however,  a  significant  proportion  of  officer  candidates  had  been 
conscripted  into  military  service  for  life  (or  until  retired  or  physi- 
cally incapacitated)  from  the  upper  levels  of  secondary  school  grad- 
uating classes  and  from  among  the  most  promising  first-year 
university  students.  Not  all  of  those  selected  in  this  manner  were 
suited  for  military  life,  and  many  resented  not  being  allowed  to 
pursue  civilian  careers.  Prior  to  1974,  an  estimated  10  percent  of 
all  Ethiopians  educated  beyond  secondary  school  level  were  mem- 
bers of  the  armed  forces. 

The  officers  who  were  among  the  Derg's  original  members  came 
largely  from  the  junior-grade  ranks.  Although  many  subsequently 
received  promotions  to  mid-level  grades,  rank  alone  did  not  neces- 
sarily indicate  an  officer's  importance.  Many  lieutenants  and  cap- 
tains, for  example,  received  assignments  to  important  government 
posts.  Mengistu  himself  became  a  lieutenant  colonel  only  in  1976. 
In  early  1977,  be  became  chairman  of  the  Derg.  Starting  with  Revo- 
lution Day  1979,  however,  he  was  referred  to  as  "commander  in 
chief. ' '  When  he  appeared  in  uniform  as  commander  in  chief,  he 
wore  shoulder  insignia  identical  to  those  worn  by  field  marshals 
of  the  old  imperial  army. 

Up-to-date  official  information  on  the  ethnic  composition  of  the 
officer  corps  was  not  available  in  mid- 1991.  However,  in  the  early 
1970s  about  65  percent  of  officers  at  the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel 
and  above  were  Amhara,  whereas  20  percent  were  Oromo,  the  latter 
proportion  having  nearly  doubled  during  the  previous  decade. 
Below  lieutenant  colonel,  the  percentage  who  were  Amhara  was 
60  percent,  while  30  percent  were  Oromo.  Estimates  published  in 
the  late  1970s  suggested  that  50  percent  of  the  officer  corps  was 
Amhara,  20  percent  Tigray,  and  30  percent  Oromo  and  Eritrean 
(see  Ethiopia's  Peoples,  ch.  2). 

Many  enlisted  personnel  had  joined  the  military  because  it  offered 
steady,  well-paid  employment,  service-connected  benefits,  and  the 
opportunity  for  advancement.  Others  enlisted  because  they  could 
not  find  suitable  work  in  the  cities.  Basic  pay  for  the  lowest-ranking 
personnel  in  the  armed  forces  equaled  that  of  an  experienced  skilled 
worker  in  industry.  In  the  late  1970s,  the  ethnic  composition  of 
the  enlisted  ranks  in  the  army  was  about  33  percent  Amhara,  33 
percent  Oromo,  and  25  percent  Tigray,  with  the  remainder  coming 


290 


National  Security 


from  other  groups.  The  proportion  of  Eritreans  serving  in  the  air 
force  and  navy  was  greater  than  in  the  army,  the  result  of  better 
access  to  higher  education,  which  made  Eritreans  more  suited  for 
technical  training. 

Defense  Costs 

During  World  War  II,  when  major  military  expansion  programs 
began,  the  government  devoted  approximately  38  percent  of  the 
national  budget  to  defense.  From  1948  to  1958,  the  proportion  of 
the  budget  dedicated  to  defense  dropped  from  27  to  17  percent  of 
the  total,  not  because  of  a  decrease  in  military  expenditures  but 
because  the  size  of  the  overall  national  budget  had  increased  sharply. 
Throughout  the  1960s  and  early  1970s,  money  for  defense  remained 
the  largest  single  item  in  the  budget,  varying  from  19  to  24  per- 
cent of  the  total  funds  appropriated  for  all  national  programs. 

Beginning  in  the  mid-1970s,  defense  expenditures  started  to  rise. 
In  1974  Addis  Ababa  allocated  the  equivalent  of  US$80  million 
for  defense,  in  1976  US$103  million,  and  in  1979,  US$526  mil- 
lion. By  1987-88  defense  expenditures  had  declined  to  approxi- 
mately US$472  million;  however,  it  should  be  pointed  out  that 
between  1977  and  1990,  the  Soviet  Union  had  provided  approxi- 
mately US$13  billion  in  military  assistance  to  the  Mengistu  regime. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance 

The  use  of  foreign  military  advisers  has  a  long  history  in  Ethio- 
pia, going  back  to  the  arrival  of  a  Portuguese  military  expedition 
in  the  1530s.  French,  Russian,  Belgian,  and  Swedish  advisers  all 
contributed  to  efforts  before  World  War  II  to  build  a  modern  army 
(see  Training,  this  ch.).  Following  the  war,  Britain,  Sweden,  Nor- 
way, Israel,  and  the  United  States  assumed  responsibility  for  train- 
ing and  equipping  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces. 

After  the  1977-78  Ogaden  War,  the  Soviet  Union  became  Ethio- 
pia's major  military  supplier.  Addis  Ababa  also  received  military 
assistance  from  a  number  of  other  communist  nations,  including 
Cuba,  East  Germany,  and  North  Korea.  In  addition,  by  late  1989 
Israel  had  resumed  its  military  relationship  with  Ethiopia,  which 
the  imperial  government  had  broken  off  at  the  time  of  the  Arab- 
Israeli  October  1973  War. 

United  States 

On  May  22,  1953,  the  United  States  and  Ethiopia  concluded 
an  agreement  that  gave  the  United  States  a  twenty-five-year  lease 
on  the  Kagnew  communications  station  in  Asmera.  At  the  time, 
Kagnew  was  one  of  the  largest  radio  relay  and  communications 


291 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

monitoring  stations  in  the  world.  The  United  States  later  devel- 
oped its  facilities,  which  were  manned  by  4,000  American  mili- 
tary personnel,  to  monitor  Soviet  radio  communications  throughout 
the  region.  The  two  countries  also  signed  a  Mutual  Defense  Assis- 
tance Agreement,  whereby  the  United  States  pledged  to  provide 
US$5  million  to  equip  and  train  three  6,000-member  Ethiopian 
divisions.  A  United  States  Military  Assistance  Advisory  Group 
(MAAG)  was  sent  to  Ethiopia  to  administer  this  program.  By 
March  31,  1954,  the  United  States  had  delivered  US$3.8  million 
worth  of  small  arms,  vehicles,  and  artillery  to  Ethiopia.  In  October 
1954,  Washington  granted  another  US$5  million  in  aid  to  Ethio- 
pia; and  in  November  1955,  the  United  States  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff 
agreed  that  Addis  Ababa  needed  a  minimum  of  US$5  million  a 
year  in  military  assistance  supplemented  by  the  direct  sale  of  air 
force  and  naval  equipment.  Despite  these  increases,  the  Ethiopian 
government  complained  that  this  military  aid  was  insufficient  to 
satisfy  its  defense  needs.  In  early  1956,  Addis  Ababa  therefore  ap- 
pealed to  Washington  for  "a  combination  of  grants  and  long-term 
military  credits  to  support  the  country's  defense  needs,"  which  in- 
cluded the  suppression  of  Eritrean  dissenters.  In  October  1956, 
the  United  States  National  Security  Council  responded  to  this  re- 
quest by  issuing  a  report  that  included  a  recommendation  that 
United  States  assistance  to  Ethiopia  be  increased. 

After  1960 — a  year  in  which  Washington  promised  to  provide 
support  for  a  40,000-member  Ethiopian  army — United  States  mili- 
tary aid  to  Ethiopia  gradually  increased.  In  the  1960s,  at  the  peak 
of  United  States  involvement,  more  than  300  American  personnel 
were  serving  in  the  MAAG.  In  addition,  nearly  23,000  Ethiopian 
service  personnel,  including  at  least  twenty  who  subsequently  be- 
came members  of  the  Derg,  received  advanced  training  directly 
from  United  States  personnel.  About  4,000  of  these  troops  were 
trained  at  facilities  in  the  United  States,  Mengistu  Haile  Mariam 
among  them.  By  1974  Ethiopia's  armed  forces  had  become  totally 
dependent  on  the  United  States  for  military  hardware  and  spare 
parts. 

United  States  assistance  initially  continued  without  interruption 
after  the  overthrow  of  Haile  Selassie  in  1974,  although  it  was  ac- 
companied by  proposals  for  a  negotiated  settlement  in  Eritrea.  After 
the  execution  of  a  large  number  of  high-ranking  officals  of  the  im- 
perial regime  in  November  1974,  the  United  States  postponed  the 
signing  of  a  pending  aid  agreement,  but  shipments  of  aircraft  and 
tanks  doubled  the  dollar  value  of  military  assistance  in  1975.  Cit- 
ing the  "arms  imbalance  in  the  region"  resulting  from  Soviet  aid 
to  Somalia,  Washington  proposed  to  update  Ethiopia's  arms 


292 


National  Security 


inventory  over  a  three-year  period  by  turning  over  US$200  mil- 
lion worth  of  surplus  materiel  originally  designated  for  the  Republic 
of  Vietnam  (South  Vietnam).  The  United  States  also  authorized 
the  transfer  of  an  F-5  fighter  aircraft  squadron  from  Iran  to  Ethio- 
pia. Total  United  States  arms  sales  to  Ethiopia  in  1974  and  1975 
amounted  to  US$35  million. 

During  1976,  tensions  developed  between  Washington  and  Ad- 
dis Ababa  over  the  ongoing  Military  Assistance  Program.  The  Derg 
rejected  a  new  Foreign  Military  Sales  (FMS)  credit  agreement  be- 
cause Washington  had  imposed  a  higher  interest  rate.  The  Ethio- 
pian government  also  complained  about  delays  in  arms  delivery 
schedules  in  the  face  of  growing  Soviet  military  assistance  to  Soma- 
lia. Meanwhile,  the  United  States  refused  to  approve  a  US$60  mil- 
lion program  to  replace  equipment  lost  in  Eritrea.  Despite  the 
growing  rift,  a  United  States  Department  of  State  official  testify- 
ing before  a  congressional  committee  characterized  the  Ethiopian 
government  as  "not  systematically  or  intrinsically  anti-U.S." 

The  first  significant  shift  in  relations  between  the  two  countries 
came  in  December  1976,  when  a  Derg  delegation  headed  by  Men- 
gistu  visited  Moscow  and  concluded  an  arms  agreement  with  the 
Soviet  Union  valued  at  US$385  million  that  was  designed  to  end 
Washington's  virtual  monopoly  on  arms  supplies  to  Ethiopia.  Then, 
in  testimony  before  a  congressional  committee  in  February  1977, 
United  States  secretary  of  state  Cyrus  Vance  recommended  a  ces- 
sation of  grant  military  assistance  to  Ethiopia  because  of  Addis 
Ababa's  human  rights  violations.  (Grant  military  assistance 
represented  only  a  small  portion  of  the  Military  Assistance  Pro- 
gram, which  totaled  US$26  million  in  United  States  fiscal  year  1976 
and  was  scheduled  to  total  US$62  million  in  United  States  fiscal 
year  1977.  These  figures  contrasted  with  an  annual  average  of 
US$10  million  in  military  assistance  to  the  imperial  regime.)  The 
United  States  also  informed  the  Derg  in  February  that  it  intended 
to  reduce  the  size  of  the  United  States  military  mission  and  to  close 
the  Kagnew  communications  station,  where  activities  already  were 
being  phased  out,  by  the  end  of  September  1977. 

As  a  result  of  these  actions,  the  Ethiopian  government,  believ- 
ing that  all  United  States  military  assistance  eventually  would  be 
eliminated,  responded  in  April  1977  by  closing  United  States  mili- 
tary installations  and  giving  MAAG  personnel  a  week's  notice  to 
leave  the  country.  A  large  store  of  equipment  remained  behind  in 
the  rapid  American  departure.  Ethiopia  then  abrogated  the  1953 
United  States-Ethiopian  Mutual  Defense  Assistance  Agreement  and 
terminated  the  lease  on  Kagnew  station.  In  the  absence  of  a  bilateral 
agreement,  the  United  States  had  no  legal  basis  for  the  delivery 


293 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

of  aircraft,  armored  vehicles,  ships,  and  a  number  of  air-to- surface 
and  air-to-air  missiles  that  had  been  approved  for  delivery  and  on 
which  the  Derg  had  made  partial  down  payment.  Thus  was  ter- 
minated the  military  relationship  between  Washington  and  Addis 
Ababa. 

Soviet  Union 

In  1976,  after  receiving  Moscow's  assurance  of  military  as- 
sistance, Lieutenant  Colonel  Atnafu  Abate,  vice  chairman  of  the 
Derg,  announced  that  Ethiopia  would  restrict  its  future  purchases 
to  "socialist  countries."  By  the  time  Somali  forces  captured  Jijiga 
in  September  1977,  Moscow  already  had  decided  to  supply  mili- 
tary assistance  to  the  Mengistu  regime. 

Within  three  months  of  this  decision,  the  Soviet  Union  had  in- 
itiated a  massive  arms  transfer  program.  Approximately  fifty  Soviet 
ships  had  passed  through  the  Suez  Canal  on  the  way  to  the  port 
of  Aseb  to  unload  crated  fighter  aircraft,  tanks,  artillery,  and 
munitions — an  estimated  60,000  tons  of  hardware — for  delivery 
to  the  Ogaden  front.  Moscow  shipped  additional  equipment  from 
the  People's  Democratic  Republic  of  Yemen  (South  Yemen).  At 
the  height  of  the  buildup,  between  November  1977  and  February 
1978,  Soviet  transport  aircraft,  including  giant  An-22s,  landed  at 
twenty-five-minute  intervals  at  Ethiopian  airports.  An  estimated 
225  transports — about  15  percent  of  the  Soviet  air  fleet — partici- 
pated in  the  operation. 

The  1977-78  Soviet  supply  operation  impressed  Western  observ- 
ers, who  admitted  that  the  display  of  Soviet  transport  capability 
had  added  a  "new  strategic  element"  to  the  East- West  balance. 
The  Soviet  Union  drew  on  large  stockpiles  of  equipment  created 
by  high  production  levels.  Soviet  aid — which  included  eighty  air- 
craft, 600  tanks,  and  300  APCs — had  an  estimated  value  of  US$1 
billion,  surpassing  in  a  matter  of  months  the  total  value  of  United 
States  aid  provided  to  Ethiopia  between  1953  and  1977.  One-fourth 
of  the  Soviet  assistance  was  a  gift;  reportedly,  the  Libyan  govern- 
ment financed  a  small  portion. 

In  November  1978,  a  few  months  after  the  end  of  the  Ogaden 
War,  Addis  Ababa  and  Moscow  signed  a  twenty-year  Treaty  of 
Friendship  and  Cooperation.  Among  other  things,  the  treaty  called 
for  close  military  cooperation.  With  the  promise  of  future  arms 
deliveries,  the  Mengistu  regime  continued  to  pursue  military  vic- 
tory against  Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  separatists  in  northern  Ethio- 
pia. In  July  1979,  for  example,  the  Soviet  Union  underwrote 
Ethiopia's  fifth  offensive  against  Eritrea  by  shipping  military  hard- 
ware to  Ethiopian  army  garrisons  at  Mersa  Teklay  and  Asmera. 


294 


A  United  States  airman  trains  an  Ethiopian 
air  force  technician  in  meteorology,  1967. 

Courtesy  United  States  Air  Force 

Moreover,  Soviet  officers  reportedly  commanded  Ethiopian  field 
units.  However,  like  the  four  earlier  ones  between  1974  and  1978, 
this  offensive  failed  to  bring  rebel  areas  under  government  control. 

By  mid- 1980  Ethiopia's  military  and  economic  debt  to  the  Soviet 
Union  had  grown  dramatically.  The  total  value  to  be  repaid  was 
US$1 .7  billion,  to  be  spread  over  ten  years  beginning  in  1984,  with 
2  percent  interest  to  be  paid  concurrently  on  the  principal.  In  addi- 
tion, Ethiopia  agreed  to  repay  a  US$300  million  commercial  debt 
to  the  Soviet  Union  for  items  such  as  trucks  and  cranes.  Addis 
Ababa  met  these  obligations  by  sending  coffee  to  the  Soviet  Union 
and  by  making  foreign-exchange  payments  from  export  earnings 
elsewhere. 

Throughout  the  mid-1980s,  the  Soviet  Union's  military  com- 
mitment to  Ethiopia  continued  to  grow,  despite  Moscow's  pur- 
ported encouragement  of  a  political  settlement  of  the  Eritrean 
problem.  In  1982,  for  example,  Moscow  provided  about  US$2  bil- 
lion worth  of  weapons  to  support  Ethiopia's  various  Red  Star  cam- 
paigns in  Eritrea.  The  Red  Star  campaigns  were  planned  jointly 
by  Soviet  military  advisers  and  their  Ethiopian  counterparts. 


295 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Although  the  1982  campaign  failed  to  produce  a  military  victory 
in  Eritrea,  the  Soviet  Union  remained  committed  to  the  Mengistu 
regime.  By  1984  Moscow  had  provided  more  than  US$4  billion 
in  military  assistance  to  Ethiopia,  with  arms  deliveries  in  1984 
(worth  approximately  US$1.2  billion)  at  their  highest  level  since 
the  Ogaden  War.  The  number  of  Soviet  and  East  European  mili- 
tary advisers  in  Ethiopia  also  grew  from  about  1,900  in  1981  to 
approximately  2,600  in  1984.  Additionally,  by  1984  more  than 
1,600  Ethiopian  military  personnel  had  received  training  in  the 
Soviet  Union. 

After  Mikhail  Gorbachev  came  to  power  in  March  1985,  Soviet 
policy  toward  Ethiopia  underwent  a  fundamental  change.  The  value 
of  arms  deliveries  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  East  European 
allies  declined  to  US$774  million  in  1985  and  to  US$292  million 
in  1986.  The  number  of  Soviet  military  advisers  in  Ethiopia  also 
declined,  to  about  1,400  in  1988,  although  it  returned  to  normal 
levels  of  approximately  1,700  in  1989. 

More  important,  Gorbachev  told  Mengistu  during  a  July  26, 
1988,  meeting  in  Moscow  that  the  Soviet  Union  was  unwilling  to 
increase  military  assistance  to  Ethiopia.  Instead,  the  Soviet  leader 
encouraged  a  "just  solution"  to  the  disputes  in  northern  Ethio- 
pia. In  subsequent  meetings  between  Soviet  and  Ethiopian  offi- 
cials, Moscow  refused  Addis  Ababa's  request  to  reschedule  its  debt 
and  declined  to  indicate  whether  it  would  conclude  another  arms 
agreement  after  the  one  in  force  in  1989  expired  in  1991. 

As  further  evidence  of  the  Soviet  Union's  interest  in  a  negotiated 
settlement  of  the  Eritrean  issue,  in  early  July  1989  Yuri  Yukalov, 
director  of  the  African  department  at  the  Soviet  Ministry  of  For- 
eign Affairs,  met  with  Issaias  Afwerki,  secretary  general  of  the 
EPLF,  to  discuss  Ethiopia's  future.  Additionally,  the  Soviet  Union 
expressed  support  for  the  peace  talks  taking  place  in  1989  between 
the  Ethiopian  government  and  the  EPLF  and  TPLF. 

Throughout  1990  Moscow  continued  to  reduce  its  military  com- 
mitment to  Addis  Ababa.  In  March  1990,  for  example,  the  Soviet 
Union  announced  the  withdrawal  of  its  military  advisers  from  all 
combat  zones.  Despite  Ethiopia's  growing  need  for  helicopters  and 
other  counterinsurgency  equipment,  Moscow  refused  to  conclude 
any  new  weapons  contracts  with  the  Mengistu  regime.  It  should 
be  pointed  out,  however,  that  the  Soviet  Union  honored  all  com- 
mitments set  forth  in  the  military  assistance  agreement,  which  was 
to  expire  at  the  beginning  of  1991. 

Cuba 

Cuba's  involvement  with  Ethiopia  paralleled  that  of  the  Soviet 
Union.  Prior  to  the  outbreak  of  the  Ogaden  War,  Havana,  like 


296 


National  Security 


Moscow,  had  been  an  ally  of  Somalia.  After  a  series  of  Somali 
armed  incursions  into  the  Ogaden  ruptured  already  tense  relations 
between  Addis  Ababa  and  Mogadishu,  Cuban  president  Fidel  Cas- 
tro Ruz  visited  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  urged  the  two  countries 
to  join  in  forming  a  regional  federation  that  also  would  include 
South  Yemen,  an  "autonomous"  Ogaden,  an  "autonomous" 
Eritrea,  and  Djibouti.  After  the  failure  of  this  initiative,  Cuba  began 
moving  closer  to  Ethiopia,  abandoning  its  ties  with  Somalia  in  the 
process. 

In  November  1977,  two  months  after  Somali  forces  had  captured 
Jijiga,  Cuban  military  advisers  started  to  arrive  in  Ethiopia.  By 
the  end  of  the  month,  the  Soviet  Union  had  also  begun  a  six- week 
airlift,  later  supplemented  by  a  sealift,  of  Cuban  troops.  From  the 
end  of  November  1977  to  February  1978,  Havana  deployed  ap- 
proximately 17,000  troops  to  Ethiopia,  including  three  combat 
brigades.  Some  of  these  troops  had  previously  been  stationed  in 
Angola. 

The  Cuban  presence  was  crucial  to  Ethiopia's  victory  over  Soma- 
lia. During  the  Derg's  early  1978  counteroffensive  in  the  Ogaden, 
Cuban  troops  fought  alongside  their  Ethiopian  counterparts.  With 
Cuban  support,  Ethiopian  units  quickly  scored  several  impres- 
sive victories.  As  a  result,  on  March  9,  1978,  Somali  president 
Mahammad  Siad  Barre  announced  that  his  army  was  withdraw- 
ing from  the  Ogaden. 

After  the  Ethiopian  victory  in  the  Ogaden,  attention  shifted  to 
Eritrea.  By  early  1978,  the  EPLF  had  succeeded  in  gaining  con- 
trol of  almost  all  of  Eritrea  except  the  city  of  Asmera  and  the  ports 
of  Mitsiwa  and  Aseb.  After  redeploying  its  forces  from  the  Ogaden 
to  northern  Ethiopia,  Addis  Ababa  launched  a  counteroffensive 
against  the  EPLF  during  late  1978. 

Although  there  is  some  disagreement,  most  military  observers 
believe  that  Cuba  refused  to  participate  in  the  operation  in  Eritrea 
because  Castro  considered  the  Eritrean  conflict  an  internal  war 
rather  than  a  case  of  external  aggression.  However,  the  continued 
presence  of  Cuban  troops  in  the  Ogaden  enabled  the  Mengistu  re- 
gime to  redeploy  many  of  its  troops  to  northern  Ethiopia. 

A  large  Cuban  contingent,  believed  to  number  about  12,000, 
remained  in  Ethiopia  after  the  Ogaden  War.  However,  by  mid- 1984 
Havana  had  reduced  its  troop  strength  in  Ethiopia  to  approximately 
3,000.  In  1988  a  Cuban  brigade,  equipped  with  tanks  and  APCs, 
was  stationed  in  Dire  Dawa  to  guard  the  road  and  railroad  between 
Ethiopia  and  Djibouti,  following  attacks  by  Somali- supported  rebels. 
A  mobile  battalion  of  various  military  advisers  and  an  unknown 


297 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

number  of  Cuban  instructors  who  were  on  the  Harer  Military 
Academy  faculty  also  remained  in  Ethiopia. 

After  Ethiopia  and  Somalia  signed  an  April  1 988  joint  commu- 
nique intended  to  reduce  tensions,  Cuba  decided  to  end  its  military 
presence  in  Ethiopia.  The  last  Cuban  troops  left  on  September  17, 
1989,  thus  terminating  twelve  years  of  military  cooperation. 

East  Germany 

Of  all  the  East  European  nations  that  provided  military  assistance 
to  Ethiopia,  none  played  a  more  vital  role  than  East  Germany. 
Its  importance  to  Addis  Ababa  derived  not  so  much  from  its  con- 
ventional military  support,  which  at  times  was  crucial  to  Ethio- 
pian security,  as  from  its  involvement  in  Ethiopia's  intelligence  and 
security  services. 

East  Germany's  military  relationship  with  the  Mengistu  regime 
started  in  1977,  when  Socialist  Unity  Party  of  Germany  leader 
Werner  Lamberz  visited  Ethiopia  three  times  (February,  June,  and 
December)  to  coordinate  and  direct  the  operations  of  the  approxi- 
mately 2,000  South  Yemeni  soldiers  who  were  fighting  against 
Somali  forces  in  the  Ogaden.  East  Germany  also  provided  sup- 
port to  Soviet  and  Cuban  pilots  who  flew  helicopters  and  fighter- 
bombers  on  combat  missions  during  the  Ogaden  War.  Moreover, 
East  Germany  agreed  to  give  ideological  training  to  hundreds  of 
Ethiopian  officers.  Even  after  the  end  of  the  Ogaden  War,  East 
Germany  remained  militarily  active  in  Ethiopia.  During  the  1978 
Ethiopian  offensive  against  the  EPLF,  East  German  engineers, 
working  in  conjunction  with  their  Soviet  counterparts,  reportedly 
built  flanking  roads,  enabling  Ethiopian  tanks  to  come  up  behind 
EPLF  lines.  In  addition,  East  German  military  advisers  manned 
artillery  and  rocket  units  in  Eritrea.  Interestingly,  in  1978  East  Ger- 
many also  sponsored  unsuccessful  peace  talks  between  Ethiopia  and 
the  EPLF.  When  these  discussions  failed,  the  East  German  govern- 
ment abandoned  diplomacy  in  favor  of  a  military  solution  to  the 
problem  of  Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  separatism. 

In  May  1979,  East  Germany  and  Ethiopia  signed  an  agreement 
formalizing  military  relations  between  the  two  countries.  Then, 
on  November  15,  1979,  East  German  head  of  state  Erich  Honecker 
visited  Ethiopia  and  signed  a  twenty-year  Treaty  of  Friendship  and 
Cooperation.  In  addition  to  calling  for  greater  cooperation  in  poli- 
tics, economics,  trade,  science,  culture,  and  technology,  the  1979 
treaty  also  laid  the  groundwork  for  increased  military  assistance. 

For  most  of  the  1980s,  East  Germany,  through  its  National  Peo- 
ple's Army  and  its  State  Security  Service,  provided  Ethiopia  with 
diverse  forms  of  military  and  intelligence  assistance.  Apart  from 


298 


National  Security 


military  aid,  such  as  automatic  rifles,  ammunition,  artillery,  and 
heavy  vehicles,  East  Germany  provided  up  to  five  months'  train- 
ing in  military  and  police  tactics  to  members  of  the  People's  Pro- 
tection Brigades,  which  concentrated  on  routine  police  duties  at 
the  local  level  (see  People's  Protection  Brigades,  this  ch.).  In  1982 
East  German  intelligence  advisers  participated  in  that  year's  Red 
Star  campaign  against  Eritrean  separatists.  East  German  person- 
nel often  assumed  control  of  Ethiopian  army  communications  sites 
as,  for  instance,  they  did  in  mid- 1988  in  Asmera.  In  addition,  East 
German  security  advisers  reportedly  acted  as  Mengistu's  personal 
bodyguard. 

Even  after  the  Soviet  Union  altered  its  policy  toward  Ethiopia 
in  the  late  1980s,  East  Germany  remained  Mengistu's  staunch  ally. 
In  mid- 1989,  for  example,  Honecker  promised  Mengistu  fifty  to 
sixty  T-54/55  tanks  that  had  been  scheduled  to  be  scrapped  in  a 
force  reduction.  However,  after  Honecker' s  resignation  and  the 
emergence  of  a  more  broadly  based  government  in  late  1989,  East 
German  officials  informed  Addis  Ababa  that  the  military  relation- 
ship between  the  two  countries  had  been  terminated  and  that  all 
future  arms  deliveries  had  been  canceled.  In  1990  the  550  East  Ger- 
man advisers  and  technicians  stationed  in  Ethiopia  were  withdrawn. 
The  end  of  the  alliance  between  Ethiopia  and  East  Germany  fur- 
ther isolated  the  Mengistu  regime  and  reduced  the  Ethiopian  army's 
ability  to  achieve  a  military  solution  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray. 

North  Korea 

Given  the  change  in  Soviet  policy  toward  Ethiopia,  Addis 
Ababa's  relations  with  North  Korea  took  on  added  importance  as 
the  1990s  began.  There  was  little  information  on  the  nature  and 
scope  of  North  Korean  military  assistance  to  Ethiopia,  but  most 
Western  military  observers  agreed  that  it  would  be  impossible  for 
North  Korea  to  duplicate  the  quantity  and  quality  of  weapons  that 
the  Soviet  Union  had  been  providing  to  the  Mengistu  regime. 
Nonetheless,  beginning  in  1985  P'yongyang  deployed  hundreds 
of  military  advisers  to  Ethiopia  and  provided  an  array  of  small  arms, 
ammunition,  and  other  materiel  to  the  Mengistu  regime. 

In  November  1985,  North  Korea  provided  Ethiopia  a  6  million 
birr  (for  value  of  the  birr — see  Glossary)  interest-free  loan  to  be 
used  to  purchase  equipment  with  which  to  construct  a  shipyard 
on  Haleb  Island,  off  Aseb.  Planners  expected  the  shipyard  to 
produce  wooden-hulled  and  steel-hulled  craft  ranging  in  size  from 
5,000  to  150,000  tons  displacement.  (As  of  1991,  the  shipyard  had 
not  been  completed.)  North  Korea  also  had  paid  for  the  training 
of  a  20,000-man  special  operations  force  at  the  Tatek  military  camp. 


299 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 
Israel 

Israel  has  been  one  of  Ethiopia's  most  reliable  suppliers  of  mili- 
tary assistance,  largely  because  Tel  Aviv  believed  that  if  it  sup- 
ported Ethiopia,  hostile  Arab  nations  would  be  unable  to  exert 
control  over  the  Red  Sea  and  the  Bab  el  Mandeb,  which  forms 
its  southern  outlet.  During  the  imperial  era,  Israeli  advisers  trained 
paratroops  and  counterinsurgency  units  belonging  to  the  Fifth  Di- 
vision (also  called  the  Nebelbal — or  Flame — Division).  In  the  early 
1960s,  Israel  started  helping  the  Ethiopian  government  in  its  cam- 
paigns against  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front  (ELF). 

Even  after  Ethiopia  broke  diplomatic  relations  with  Israel  at  the 
time  of  the  October  1973  War,  Israel  quietly  continued  to  supply 
military  aid  to  Ethiopia.  This  assistance  continued  after  Mengistu 
came  to  power  in  1974  and  included  spare  parts  and  ammunition 
for  United  States-made  weapons  and  service  for  United  States-made 
F-5  jet  fighters.  Israel  also  maintained  a  small  group  of  military 
advisers  in  Addis  Ababa. 

In  1978,  however,  when  former  Israeli  minister  of  foreign  af- 
fairs Moshe  Dayan  admitted  that  Israel  had  been  providing  secu- 
rity assistance  to  Ethiopia,  Mengistu  expelled  all  Israelis  so  that 
he  might  preserve  his  relationship  with  radical  Arab  countries  such 
as  Libya  and  South  Yemen.  Nonetheless,  although  Addis  Ababa 
claimed  it  had  terminated  its  military  relationship  with  Israel,  mili- 
tary cooperation  continued.  In  1983,  for  example,  Israel  provided 
communications  training,  and  in  1984  Israeli  advisers  trained  the 
Presidential  Guard  and  Israeli  technical  personnel  served  with  the 
police.  Some  Western  observers  believed  that  Israel  provided  mili- 
tary assistance  to  Ethiopia  in  exchange  for  Mengistu 's  tacit  cooper- 
ation during  Operation  Moses  in  1984,  in  which  10,000  Beta  Israel 
(Ethiopian  Jews;  also  called  Falasha)  were  evacuated  to  Israel  (see 
Ethnic  Groups,  Ethnicity,  and  Language,  ch.  2).  In  1985  Tel  Aviv 
reportedly  sold  Addis  Ababa  at  least  US$20  million  in  Soviet-made 
munitions  and  spare  parts  captured  from  Palestinians  in  Lebanon. 
According  to  the  EPLF,  the  Mengistu  regime  received  US$83  mil- 
lion worth  of  Israeli  military  aid  in  1987,  and  Israel  deployed  some 
300  military  advisers  to  Ethiopia.  Additionally,  the  EPLF  claimed 
that  thirty-eight  Ethiopian  pilots  had  gone  to  Israel  for  training. 

In  late  1989,  Israel  reportedly  finalized  a  secret  agreement  to 
provide  increased  military  assistance  to  Addis  Ababa  in  exchange 
for  Mengistu 's  promise  to  allow  Ethiopia's  remaining  Beta  Israel 
to  emigrate  to  Israel.  In  addition,  the  two  nations  agreed  to  re- 
store diplomatic  relations  (Israel  opened  an  embassy  in  Addis  Ababa 


300 


National  Security 


on  December  17,  1989)  and  to  increase  intelligence  cooperation. 
Mengistu  apparently  believed  that  Israel — unlike  the  Soviet  Union, 
whose  military  advisers  emphasized  conventional  tactics — could 
provide  the  training  and  materiel  needed  to  transform  the  Ethio- 
pian army  into  a  counterinsurgency  force  capable  of  defeating 
Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  separatists. 

During  1990  Israeli-Ethiopian  relations  continued  to  prosper. 
According  to  a  New  York  Times  report,  Tel  Aviv  furnished  an  array 
of  military  assistance  to  Addis  Ababa,  including  150,000  rifles, 
cluster  bombs,  ten  to  twenty  military  advisers  to  train  Mengistu 's 
Presidential  Guard,  and  an  unknown  number  of  instructors  to  work 
with  Ethiopian  commando  units.  Unconfirmed  reports  also  sug- 
gested that  Israel  had  provided  the  Ethiopian  air  force  with  sur- 
veillance cameras  and  had  agreed  to  train  Ethiopian  pilots. 

In  return  for  this  aid,  Ethiopia  permitted  the  emigration  of  the 
Beta  Israel.  Departures  in  the  spring  reached  about  500  people  a 
month  before  Ethiopian  officials  adopted  new  emigration  proce- 
dures that  reduced  the  figure  by  more  than  two-thirds.  The  fol- 
lowing year,  Tel  Aviv  and  Addis  Ababa  negotiated  another 
agreement  whereby  Israel  provided  agricultural,  economic,  and 
health  assistance.  Also,  in  May  1991,  as  the  Mengistu  regime  neared 
its  end,  Israel  paid  US$35  million  in  cash  for  permission  to  fly  nearly 
15,000  Beta  Israel  from  Ethiopia  to  Israel. 

External  and  Internal  Opponents 

After  the  1974  overthrow  of  Haile  Selassie,  the  Mengistu  regime 
confronted  several  internal  rebellions  and  one  major  external  oppo- 
nent. These  internal  rebellions  consisted  of  threats  posed  by  Eritrean 
secessionists,  Tigrayan  rebels,  and  other,  less  active  guerrilla  move- 
ments in  the  center  and  south  of  the  country.  Whatever  the  politi- 
cal orientation  or  ethnic  composition  of  these  insurgent  groups,  the 
Ethiopian  government  characterized  them  variously  as  "traitors," 
"counterrevolutionaries,"  "feudalists,"  "shifta"  (bandits),  or  "paid 
agents  of  the  CIA."  By  1991  the  Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front 
(EPLF)  and  the  Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  (TPLF)  had 
emerged  as  the  strongest  guerrilla  groups  opposed  to  the  government. 

Since  the  end  of  World  War  II,  Somalia  has  posed  the  only  seri- 
ous external  threat  to  Ethiopia.  In  the  late  1980s,  however,  the  na- 
ture of  this  threat  changed,  perhaps  permanently,  as  the  Somali 
government  became  more  involved  with  maintaining  its  internal 
security  and  less  capable  of  recreating  a  "Greater  Somalia." 

The  Eritreans 

A  variety  of  Eritrean  secessionist  groups  have  used  convention- 
al means  and  guerrilla  tactics  to  defy  the  forces  of  both  the  imperial 


301 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  revolutionary  governments  (see  The  Eritrean  Movement, 
ch.  4).  The  Eritrean  Liberation  Front  (ELF),  a  nationalist  organi- 
zation committed  to  self-rule  for  Eritrea,  commenced  a  small-scale 
insurgency  in  1961  against  imperial  security  forces.  Throughout 
the  1960s,  the  level  of  hostilities  accelerated  steadily,  leading  to  the 
1971  imposition  of  martial  law.  Ethiopian  army  personnel  deployed 
to  Eritrea  during  this  period  numbered  about  20,000,  roughly  half 
the  force's  total,  but  much  of  the  burden  of  counterinsurgency  oper- 
ations fell  on  the  paramilitary  mobile  police. 

Ideological  and  ethnic  differences  split  the  ELF  in  1970  and  re- 
sulted in  the  formation  of  the  Marxist-oriented  Eritrean  People's 
Liberation  Front  (EPLF).  From  1972  to  1974,  a  civil  war  ensued 
between  the  two  groups.  Eventually,  the  EPLF,  which  advocated 
"revolution  before  unity,"  emerged  victorious.  Many  ELF  mem- 
bers, and  sometimes  entire  units,  then  fled  into  eastern  Sudan,  fur- 
ther weakening  the  organization  in  Eritrea.  After  establishing  its 
dominance,  the  EPLF  used  its  increased  popularity  to  expand  its 
personnel  strength.  By  1977,  when  secessionists  controlled  the  coun- 
tryside and  most  population  centers,  the  EPLF  had  approximately 
15,000  troops  in  the  field.  The  ELF,  however,  still  had  numerical 
superiority,  with  about  20,000  troops  in  its  ranks.  Therefore,  to 
further  discredit  and  isolate  the  ELF,  the  EPLF  and  a  group  of 
former  ELF  cadres  who  had  reorganized  themselves  as  the  Eritrean 
Liberation  Front-Revolutionary  Council  issued  a  joint  statement 
indicating  that  they  were  "the  sole  representatives  of  the  Eritrean 
people  and  the  only  legal  spokesmen  on  all  issues  concerning  the 
Eritrean  people's  struggle." 

In  May  1978,  a  100,000-member  Ethiopian  force  was  deployed 
in  a  counteroffensive  whose  objective  was  the  eradication  of  the 
Eritrean  revolution.  Even  though  the  EPLF  and  ELF  succeeded 
in  making  some  preemptive  attacks  against  government  units  and 
in  defending  Eritrea's  southern  border,  the  ferocity  of  the  govern- 
ment counteroffensive  forced  the  rebels  to  undertake  a  "strategic 
withdrawal"  to  their  base  area.  As  a  result,  the  Ethiopian  army 
reoccupied  most  towns  and  cities  that  had  been  taken  by  the  re- 
bels. Government  troops  also  dealt  a  crippling  blow  to  the  ELF, 
causing  many  of  its  personnel  to  flee  into  eastern  Sudan,  where 
many  of  them  remained. 

The  only  government  setback  occurred  at  the  EPLF-held  town 
of  Nakfa,  which  eventually  became  a  symbol  of  Eritrean  determi- 
nation to  resist  government  control.  After  retreating  EPLF  units 
had  reached  Nakfa,  they  built  heavy  fortifications,  including  a  forty- 
kilometer-long  defensive  trench  in  the  surrounding  mountains. 
Despite  repeated  attempts,  the  Ethiopian  army  was  unable  to 


302 


National  Security 


dislodge  the  EPLF  from  Nakfa.  Between  1978  and  1981,  the  Derg 
unleashed  five  large-scale  military  campaigns  against  the  EPLF, 
none  of  which  resulted  in  a  government  victory. 

In  February  1982,  the  Mengistu  regime  embarked  on  its  sixth 
counteroffensive  against  the  EPLF.  Dubbed  Red  Star,  the  cam- 
paign involved  120,000  government  troops.  The  campaign  failed 
to  drive  the  EPLF  from  Nakfa  and  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  more 
than  40,000  Ethiopian  troops.  Although  Addis  Ababa  managed 
to  consolidate  its  hold  over  the  Eritrean  highlands,  it  was  unable 
to  eliminate  the  EPLF,  which  still  possessed  the  capacity  to  make 
hit-and-run  strikes  against  government  positions. 

Once  the  1982  Red  Star  offensive  ended,  the  EPLF  regrouped 
its  forces  to  seize  the  military  initiative.  In  January  1984,  the  EPLF 
captured  the  town  of  Teseney  in  southwestern  Eritrea,  and  two 
months  later  the  rebels  overran  the  port  of  Mersa  Teklay,  thereby 
establishing  an  EPLF  presence  on  the  northeastern  coast.  During 
this  battie,  the  rebels  also  captured  a  significant  number  of  weapons, 
which  they  used  to  take  the  strategic  hilltop  town  of  Barentu  in 
early  July  1985.  Once  again,  the  rebels  captured  an  array  of  mili- 
tary equipment,  including  fifteen  T-54/55  tanks  and  dozens  of 
trucks  and  artillery  pieces.  In  May  1984,  EPLF  commandos  at- 
tacked the  Asmera  air  base  and  reportedly  destroyed  two  Soviet 
11-38  maritime  reconnaissance  aircraft. 

When  news  of  the  EPLF's  victory  at  Barentu  reached  Addis 
Ababa,  the  Mengistu  regime  ordered  the  redeployment  of  two  di- 
visions (about  30,000  troops)  from  the  Ogaden  to  northern  Ethio- 
pia and  formed  a  new  armored  division  to  help  retake  the  town. 
The  Ethiopian  army  then  made  perhaps  as  many  as  thirteen  at- 
tempts to  recapture  the  town,  losing  2,000  soldiers  killed  or  wounded 
in  the  process.  After  the  Ethiopian  air  force  started  bombing 
Barentu,  the  EPLF  guerrillas  withdrew  from  the  town  on  Au- 
gust 24,  1985,  taking  with  them  at  least  thirteen  T-55  tanks,  twelve 
artillery  pieces,  and  several  APCs.  According  to  the  EPLF,  their 
units  killed  or  captured  11,250  Ethiopian  soldiers  during  several 
battles  fought  before  the  withdrawal. 

Within  days  of  reoccupying  Barentu,  the  Ethiopian  army  recap- 
tured Teseney,  thereby  cutting  off  the  EPLF's  western  territorial 
flank.  Additional  government  victories  forced  the  rebels  to  fall  back 
to  their  Nakfa  stronghold.  Over  the  next  several  weeks,  the  Ethio- 
pian armed  forces  used  tanks  and  other  armored  vehicles,  cluster 
bombs,  napalm,  and  fighter-bombers  to  support  the  ground  attack 
on  Nakfa.  By  the  summer  of  1986,  the  government  offensive  had 
ended;  Nakfa,  however,  was  still  in  rebel  hands,  and  the  EPLF 
had  extended  its  area  of  control  southward  along  the  Eritrean  coast. 


303 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

On  October  10,  1985,  the  Derg  launched  another  anti-EPLF 
offensive,  whose  objective  was  the  capture  of  Nakfa  "within  five 
days."  The  operation  involved  sixty  aircraft  and  thirty  helicopter 
gunships.  For  the  first  time,  the  Ethiopian  air  force  dropped  air- 
borne units  behind  rebel  lines  in  northeast  Sahel  awraja  (subregion). 
When  Ethiopian  forces  failed  to  capture  the  city,  the  Mengistu  re- 
gime ordered  two  more  attacks  on  Nakfa,  each  of  which  ended  in 
the  government's  defeat. 

In  1986  the  EPLF  relied  on  more  traditional  guerrilla  tactics  in 
its  operations  against  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces.  On  January  14, 
1986,  for  example,  a  rebel  commando  unit,  armed  with  rocket 
launchers  and  hand  grenades,  again  penetrated  the  Asmera  air  base, 
destroying  more  than  forty  aircraft  and  burning  the  installation's 
ammunition  and  fuel  depots.  Apart  from  the  impact  on  the  Ethio- 
pian air  force,  this  attack  caused  the  Soviet  Union  to  terminate 
its  reconnaissance  flights  to  and  from  Asmera.  The  following  May, 
EPLF  artillery  units  bombarded  Ethiopian  positions  in  and  around 
Mitsiwa,  destroying  fuel  tanks  and  tankers.  Regular  units  also  over- 
ran government  garrisons  located  about  thirty  kilometers  south  of 
Asmera. 

Concurrent  with  these  military  operations,  the  EPLF  continued 
its  political  offensive  against  the  Mengistu  regime.  On  September 
23,  1986,  the  rebels  celebrated  their  twenty-fifth  year  of  resistance 
by  calling  on  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU),  the  League 
of  Arab  States  (Arab  League),  the  UN,  and  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment to  recognize  the  legitimacy  of  their  claim  to  nationhood.  Then, 
on  November  25,  the  EPLF  announced  that  it  had  merged  with 
an  ELF  faction  that  had  severed  ties  with  its  parent  group.  The 
EPLF  also  continued  efforts  to  reach  an  accommodation  with 
another  ELF  faction,  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Revolutionary 
Council,  led  by  Ahmad  Nasir. 

The  armed  struggle  in  Eritrea  entered  1987  with  neither  the 
EPLF  nor  the  Ethiopian  government  willing  to  abandon  the  use 
of  military  force  to  achieve  their  political  objectives.  However,  the 
Mengistu  regime  abandoned  its  costly  strategy  of  launching  an- 
nual major  counteroffensives  in  Eritrea,  preferring  instead  a  pol- 
icy of  defensive  containment  while  rebuilding  its  army,  which  still 
had  not  recovered  from  the  October  1985  offensive. 

The  EPLF  also  kept  its  military  activities  to  a  minimum.  Apart 
from  various  hit-and-run  operations,  one  of  the  largest  rebel  en- 
gagements occurred  on  March  20,  when  the  EPLF  clashed  with 
four  Ethiopian  army  brigades  in  Eritrea's  northern  zone.  In  the 
two-day  battle,  the  EPLF  claimed  government  forces  suffered  650 
casualties. 


304 


Women  veterans  who  have  been  decorated  for  their  service  to  the  state 

The  following  year,  the  EPLF,  which  by  then  had  approximately 
30,000  full-time  fighters  plus  an  unknown  number  of  part-time  per- 
sonnel, stepped  up  its  military  activities  in  Eritrea.  On  March  19, 
1988,  the  rebels  inflicted  a  defeat  on  Ethiopia's  Second  Revolu- 
tionary Army  at  the  garrison  town  of  Afabet.  According  to  British 
historian  and  Africa  specialist  Basil  Davidson,  the  Afabet  victory 
was  one  of  the  biggest  ever  scored  by  any  liberation  movement  any- 
where since  Dien  Bien  Phu  in  Vietnam  in  1954.  Rebel  spokesmen 
indicated  that  the  EPLF  had  destroyed  an  Ethiopian  army  corps, 
comprising  three  divisions  totaling  18,000  to  20,000  personnel.  The 
rebels  also  had  captured  several  thousand  Ethiopian  soldiers,  three 
Soviet  military  advisers,  and  an  array  of  equipment. 

The  Ethiopian  government,  which  launched  an  unsuccessful 
counteroffensive  in  June  1988  against  the  EPLF,  eventually  or- 
dered the  evacuation  of  all  foreign  personnel  working  for  humanitar- 
ian and  relief  organizations  in  Eritrea.  Additionally,  Addis  Ababa 
told  these  organizations  to  relinquish  all  food  and  nonfood  assistance 
to  the  government's  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission  (RRC). 
Many  Western  governments,  including  that  of  the  United  States, 
objected  to  this  decision  because  they  feared  Mengistu  would  resort 
to  using  food  as  a  weapon  against  Eritrean  and  Tigrayan  rebels 
and  their  sympathizers. 

Another  development  associated  with  the  Eritrean  triumph  at 


305 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Afabet  was  the  EPLF's  and  TPLF's  acknowledgment  of  each  other's 
military  victories,  something  that  had  not  happened  since  a  dis- 
agreement between  the  two  groups  in  1985  (see  The  Tigray,  this 
ch.).  In  addition,  the  two  groups  issued  a  reconciliation  statement 
in  Damascus,  Syria,  and  promised  to  coordinate  future  military 
actions  to  bring  an  end  to  the  Mengistu  regime.  However,  the 
EPLF-TPLF  relationship  continued  to  experience  difficulties, 
largely  because  of  disagreement  over  strategy  and  tactics,  over  the 
next  several  years. 

Apart  from  further  demoralizing  the  Ethiopian  army,  the  Afabet 
victory  also  gave  impetus  to  the  peace  process.  In  early  July  1989, 
Yuri  Yukalov,  director  of  the  African  department  at  the  Soviet 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  met  with  EPLF  secretary  general  Issaias 
Afwerki.  The  meeting  was  significant  because  it  was  the  first  seri- 
ous contact  between  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  EPLF  and  because 
it  demonstrated  to  Mengistu  that  Moscow  was  no  longer  willing 
to  provide  unlimited  military  assistance  to  support  his  military 
strategy  in  northern  Ethiopia. 

The  EPLF  sustained  its  military  pressure  on  the  Mengistu  re- 
gime in  1989.  On  January  17,  rebel  units  launched  a  preemptive 
attack  against  Ethiopian  troops  located  northwest  of  the  Asmera- 
Mitsiwa  road.  During  the  two-day  battle,  the  EPLF  claimed  to  have 
killed,  wounded,  or  captured  some  2,600  Ethiopian  soldiers,  in  the 
process  destroying  twenty-one  tanks  and  capturing  eight  others, 
together  with  a  variety  of  small-  and  medium- caliber  weapons.  On 
February  19,  EPLF  units,  operating  in  conjunction  with  the  TPLF, 
struck  and  captured  the  town  of  Inda  Silase  in  Tigray.  Over  the 
next  few  months,  the  EPLF  defeated  an  Ethiopian  contingent  at 
Adi  Kwala,  a  town  ninety  kilometers  south  of  Asmera  (March  15); 
repulsed  an  Ethiopian  army  attempt  to  cut  off  the  EPLF  fortifica- 
tions around  Keren  (March  22-29);  and  killed  or  wounded  approxi- 
mately 1,000  Ethiopian  soldiers  at  Adi  Goroto  (March  27-29). 

In  mid- 1989,  after  Mengistu  had  succeeded  in  thwarting  a  coup 
attempt,  the  EPLF  and  the  Ethiopian  government  agreed  to  enter 
into  negotiations  mediated  by  former  United  States  president  Jimmy 
Carter.  After  a  round  of  preliminary  negotiations,  which  opened 
on  September  7,  1989,  at  the  Carter  Presidential  Center  at  Emory 
University  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  the  two  sides  agreed  to  hold  another 
round  of  peace  talks  in  Nairobi,  Kenya,  beginning  on  November 
20,  1989.  These  talks  failed  to  produce  a  peace  agreement.  Subse- 
quent meetings  in  Washington,  chaired  by  United  States  assistant 
secretary  of  state  for  African  affairs  Herman  Cohen,  also  accom- 
plished little. 


306 


National  Security 


Meanwhile,  government  forces  continued  to  suffer  battlefield 
defeats.  On  February  10,  1990,  the  EPLF  captured  the  port  of 
Mitsiwa.  The  fall  of  this  strategically  important  port  isolated  Ethio- 
pia's Second  Revolutionary  Army  and  eventually  resulted  in  the 
loss  of  Eritrea.  Additionally,  the  EPLF  used  its  small  fleet  of  armed 
speed  boats  to  sink  or  cripple  most  Ethiopian  navy  ships  anchored 
in  Mitsiwa  harbor.  Then,  in  August,  the  EPLF  launched  an  offen- 
sive along  the  Dekemhare  front,  south  of  Asmera.  During  this  oper- 
ation, the  rebels  killed  or  wounded  more  than  1 1 ,000  government 
soldiers  and  captured  two  tanks,  many  vehicles,  and  more  than 
1 ,000  medium  and  light  weapons.  Although  government  forces  en- 
joyed a  few  minor  victories  at  the  end  of  1990,  the  EPLF  remained 
in  control  of  most  of  Eritrea. 

In  early  1991,  the  rebels  started  their  final  offensive  against 
government  forces  by  driving  south  along  the  Red  Sea  coast,  a 
movement  that  by  early  April  brought  them  to  the  gates  of  Aseb. 
At  the  same  time,  they  formed  an  alliance  with  other  rebel  groups 
operating  as  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Democratic 
Front  (EPRDF)  and  contributed  at  least  eight  brigades  to  the 
EPRDF  to  aid  in  military  operations  in  Gonder  and  Gojam.  By 
the  end  of  April,  the  EPLF  controlled  nearly  all  of  Eritrea,  the  major 
exceptions  being  Keren,  Asmera,  and  Aseb.  In  late  May,  the  EPLF 
assumed  control  of  these  towns  without  heavy  fighting  and  without 
Ethiopian  government  reprisals  against  civilians.  The  120,000- 
member  Second  Revolutionary  Army  surrendered  in  Asmera  on 
May  24,  the  same  day  that  Keren  capitulated,  the  garrison  at  Aseb 
following  suit  the  next  day.  Having  occupied  all  of  Eritrea,  the 
EPLF  announced  its  intention  to  repatriate  all  Ethiopian  soldiers, 
security  personnel,  WPE  members,  and  ordinary  citizens  back  to 
Ethiopia.  Shortly  thereafter,  EPLF  leader  Issaias  Afwerki  indicated 
that  as  far  as  he  was  concerned,  Eritrea  was  an  independent  state. 

The  Tigray 

Formed  in  1975,  the  Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  (TPLF) 
was  dedicated  to  the  overthrow  of  the  Mengistu  regime  (see  The 
Tigrayan  Movement,  ch.  4).  It  survived  during  its  early  years  only 
because  of  the  money  and  weapons  it  received  from  the  EPLF.  The 
EPLF  supported  the  TPLF  because  the  latter  formed  a  buffer  be- 
tween the  Ethiopian  army  and  Eritrea.  Despite  subsequent  politi- 
cal and  ideological  rifts  between  the  groups,  the  EPLF  always 
maintained  this  buffer  strategy. 

On  February  18,  1976,  the  TPLF  convened  its  first  congress, 
at  Dima.  The  group  of  about  170  people  in  attendance  elected  a 
seven-member  Central  Committee.  During  May  and  June  1976, 


307 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

the  rebels  gained  international  attention  by  kidnapping  a  British 
family  and  a  British  journalist.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  the  TPLF 
had  about  1,000  full-time  fighters.  It  confined  its  military  activi- 
ties to  attacking  traffic  along  the  main  road  between  Mekele,  the 
Tigrayan  capital,  and  Asmera.  Within  two  years,  however,  the 
TPLF  had  increased  its  strength  to  the  point  where  the  group  con- 
trolled large  parts  of  the  countryside  and  threatened  the  Ethiopian 
army's  supply  lines. 

Throughout  the  late  1970s  and  the  early  1980s,  Tigray,  like 
Eritrea,  suffered  from  the  Derg's  annual  military  counteroffensives 
in  north-central  Ethiopia.  During  these  operations,  the  TPLF  and 
the  EPLF  coordinated  many  of  their  military  actions  against  govern- 
ment forces.  However,  in  1983  a  rift  developed  between  the  groups 
after  the  TPLF  proposed  a  unification  of  all  anti-Mengistu  elements, 
including  the  EPLF.  Relations  further  deteriorated  when  the  EPLF 
failed  to  inform  the  TPLF  that  it  had  started  secret  peace  talks  with 
Addis  Ababa.  As  a  result,  the  TPLF  refrained  from  supporting 
the  EPLF  during  the  government's  1985  counteroffensive  in  north- 
ern Ethiopia.  Although  there  was  a  brief  reconciliation  after  the 
EPLF's  victory  at  Afabet,  the  TPLF-EPLF  estrangement  continued 
for  the  next  several  years.  In  March  1987,  for  example,  the  TPLF 
refused  to  be  represented  at  the  EPLF's  Unity  Congress. 

In  February  1989,  the  TPLF,  which  by  then  included  at  least 
20,000  full-time  fighters  plus  an  unknown  number  of  part-time 
fighters,  abandoned  hit-and-run  guerrilla  tactics.  The  TPLF,  with 
support  from  the  EPLF,  which  wanted  to  open  a  second  front 
against  Mengistu,  launched  a  conventional  attack  against  the  town 
of  Inda  Silase  in  western  Tigray.  The  TPLF  destroyed  a  20,000- 
member  Ethiopian  army  force .  Ethiopian  military  units  then  with- 
drew from  Mekele  and  the  rest  of  Tigray  without  a  fight.  This  defeat 
undoubtedly  helped  trigger  the  unsuccessful  May  1989  coup  against 
Mengistu. 

Although  government  troops  subsequently  returned  to  southern 
Tigray  and  reoccupied  a  few  towns  and  villages,  the  political  and 
military  initiative  remained  with  the  TPLF.  On  March  10,  1989, 
the  TPLF  opened  its  third  congress.  Apart  from  passing  numer- 
ous antigovernment  resolutions,  the  delegates  pledged  to  support 
the  EPRDF,  which  had  been  formed  earlier  in  the  year  by  the  TPLF 
and  a  group  known  as  the  Ethiopian  People's  Democratic  Move- 
ment (EPDM),  whose  members  were  primarily  Amhara.  In  time, 
the  EPRDF  also  included  the  Oromo  People's  Democratic  Organi- 
zation (OPDO)  and  the  Ethiopian  Democratic  Officers'  Revolu- 
tionary Movement,  both  of  which  had  been  created  by  the  TPLF 


308 


National  Security 


in  May  1990.  Tigrayan  strategists  hoped  the  unification  of  these 
groups  eventually  would  enable  the  TPLF  to  widen  its  base  of  sup- 
port beyond  Tigray.  Elements  in  support  of  the  government, 
however,  denounced  the  EPRDF  as  nothing  more  than  a  TPLF 
organization  in  Amhara  clothing. 

In  August  and  September  1989,  TPLF  forces,  operating  within 
the  framework  of  the  EPRDF,  moved  south  into  Welo.  They  over- 
ran towns  along  the  main  road,  routed  numerous  Ethiopian  units, 
captured  an  array  of  Ethiopian  army  equipment,  and  forced  the 
temporary  evacuation  of  the  regional  capital  of  Dese.  By  the  end 
of  1989,  the  EPRDF  had  succeeded  in  defeating  an  Ethiopian  gar- 
rison at  Debre  Tabor.  This  victory  enabled  Tigrayan  forces  to  cut 
the  road  between  the  cities  of  Gonder  and  Bahir  Dar  and  to  force 
their  way  into  northern  Shewa,  less  than  160  kilometers  from  Addis 
Ababa.  Mengistu  responded  to  these  developments  by  persuad- 
ing the  National  Shengo  to  order  the  mobilization  of  all  former 
soldiers  and  police  up  to  age  seventy.  Additionally,  the  National 
Shengo  authorized  increased  military  spending,  assigned  all  trans- 
port to  the  war  effort,  and  armed  local  populations  in  war  zones. 
However,  these  actions  failed  to  improve  the  government's  battle- 
field performance  against  the  EPRDF. 

During  1990  the  EPRDF,  which  controlled  all  of  Tigray  with 
the  exception  of  one  small  government  outpost,  concentrated  on 
consolidating  the  gains  it  had  made  the  previous  year,  although 
in  June  the  insurgents  repulsed  a  major  offensive  by  the  Ethiopian 
army.  The  year  1991,  however,  saw  the  EPRDF  launch  three  offen- 
sives in  rapid  succession  that  destroyed  the  Ethiopian  army  and 
the  Mengistu  regime.  On  February  23,  the  rebels  began  Opera- 
tion Tewodros  to  drive  the  government  out  of  Gonder  and  Gojam, 
and  they  succeeded  after  only  two  weeks  of  fighting.  The  inhabi- 
tants of  both  regions  supported  the  operation  largely  because  of 
their  opposition  to  the  heavy  conscription  campaign  of  the  previ- 
ous year  and  because  of  their  hatred  of  the  villagization  program. 

In  March  the  EPRDF  launched  Operation  Dula  Billisuma 
Welkita  into  Welega,  which  resulted  in  the  capture  of  the  regional 
military  headquarters  in  Nekemte.  Insurgent  units  then  advanced 
south  and  east  and  soon  occupied  Fincha,  site  of  an  electric  power 
station  that  served  Addis  Ababa.  In  mid-May  Operation  Walle- 
lign  was  begun  along  the  Welo  front.  Within  hours  the  rebels  had 
overrun  Dese  and  Kembolcha.  By  May  20,  the  EPRDF  had  cap- 
tured all  government  positions  in  southern  Welo  and  northern 
Shewa  and  were  advancing  on  Addis  Ababa  from  the  west.  The 
next  morning,  Mengistu  fled  the  country. 


309 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  aftermath  of  these  three  campaigns,  the  Ethiopian  armed 
forces  disintegrated.  Tens  of  thousands  of  soldiers  crowded  into  Addis 
Ababa  and  sold  their  weapons  or  used  them  to  rob  civilians.  Count- 
less other  soldiers  went  home,  while  many  senior  army  and  air  force 
officers  fled  to  Djibouti,  Kenya,  or  Sudan.  Ethiopian  naval  person- 
nel and  vessels  dispersed  to  Saudi  Arabia,  Yemen,  and  Djibouti. 

During  the  final  week  of  the  war,  the  EPRDF  slowly  advanced 
toward  Addis  Ababa,  capturing  the  air  force  base  at  Debre  Zeyit 
along  the  way.  The  final  battie  for  the  capital  occurred  on  the  morn- 
ing of  May  28,  when  the  EPRDF  entered  the  city.  Resistance  to 
the  takeover  consisted  largely  of  street  fighting  and  a  low-level  clash 
at  the  Grand  (Menelik's)  Palace.  About  600  to  800  people,  both 
civilians  and  combatants,  reportedly  died  during  the  operation.  For 
the  TPLF,  the  long  road  from  the  hills  of  Tigray  had  finally  ended 
in  victory. 

The  Oromo 

Created  in  July  1973,  the  Oromo  Liberation  Front  (OLF)  set 
forth  as  its  goals  Oromo  liberation  from  " Ethiopian  colonialism" 
and  the  establishment  of  an  independent  Democratic  Republic  of 
Oromia  in  southern  Ethiopia  (see  Other  Movements  and  Fronts, 
ch.  4).  The  following  year,  the  OLF  began  an  offensive  against 
the  Ethiopian  army  in  Harerge.  After  the  collapse  of  the  imperial 
regime  in  1974,  the  OLF  increased  its  military  activities  after  it 
became  evident  that  the  Mengistu  regime  would  not  allow  the 
Oromo  to  elect  their  own  representatives  to  run  peasant  associa- 
tions or  to  use  their  own  language  in  schools  and  newspapers. 
However,  the  OLF  had  little  success  in  mobilizing  support  in  the 
late  1970s  and  early  1980s. 

Beginning  in  the  mid-1980s,  the  OLF  experienced  a  resurgence. 
According  to  spokesmen,  the  organization  had  5,000  fighters  and 
more  than  10,000  militia  personnel;  most  other  sources,  however, 
suggested  that  the  OLF's  personnel  strength  was  much  lower.  In 
1985  the  OLF  overran  the  gold-mining  town  of  Agubela  and 
"freed"  about  1,000  mine  workers.  The  rebels  also  confiscated 
coffee  valued  at  approximately  US$2  million  from  the  Ethiopian 
Coffee  Marketing  Board. 

In  early  1988,  the  Ethiopian  army  attacked  OLF  forces  in  Welega. 
Fierce  fighting  occurred  around  the  garrison  towns  in  Kelem  and 
Gimbi  awraja.  Shortly  after  these  battles,  the  OLF  acknowledged 
that  it  had  received  support  from  the  EPLF  and  the  TPLF.  Despite 
this  activity,  however,  some  Western  observers  believed  that  the 
OLF  was  still  in  the  fledgling  stage  of  its  growth.  Its  chief  weak- 
ness remained  its  inability  to  mobilize  and  coordinate  the  activities 


310 


National  Security 


of  its  eastern  wing  in  Harerge,  Bale,  Sidamo,  and  Arsi.  As  a  result, 
another  organization,  the  Ogaden  National  Liberation  Front 
(ONLF),  competed  with  the  OLF  for  the  loyalty  and  support  of 
the  peoples  living  in  the  east  (see  The  Somali,  this  ch.). 

On  June  10,  1989,  the  OLF  reported  that  it  had  "disarmed" 
an  unspecified  number  of  Ethiopian  soldiers  and  freed  more  than 
2,000  Oromo  prisoners  by  destroying  five  "concentration  camps" 
in  Gara  Muleta  awraja  in  Harerge.  The  following  October,  the  OLF 
also  engaged  the  Ethiopian  army  in  Welega  and  Harerge.  From 
November  10  to  November  17,  1989,  the  OLF  held  its  second  con- 
gress in  Golelola  in  Harerge.  Besides  adopting  many  antigovern- 
ment  resolutions,  the  congress  promised  increased  military  activities 
against  the  Mengistu  regime.  A  few  weeks  later,  in  December,  OLF 
units,  with  EPLF  support,  launched  an  offensive  that  eventually 
resulted  in  the  capture  of  the  town  of  Asosa  along  the  Ethiopian- 
Sudanese  border.  The  OLF  also  escalated  activities  in  Harerge  after 
many  Ethiopian  army  units  redeployed  to  other  locations  in  Ethio- 
pia. 

After  occupying  Asosa  in  January  1990,  the  OLF  launched  no 
further  offensives  against  Mengistu 's  army  until  the  end  of  the  year, 
when  OLF  units  saw  action  at  several  locations  in  western  parts 
of  the  country.  In  1991  the  OLF  remained  largely  in  the  background 
as  the  EPRDF  and  the  EPLF  fought  their  final  battles  against 
government  forces.  The  OLF's  last  military  action  before  the  demise 
of  the  Mengistu  regime  occurred  at  Dembi  Dolo  in  southerwestern 
Welega,  when  some  of  its  units  reportedly  killed  more  than  700 
government  soldiers. 

Relations  between  the  OLF  and  the  EPRDF  seem  to  have  been 
ambivalent  even  at  the  best  of  times  because  the  Oromo  were  deeply 
suspicious  of  the  ultimate  designs  of  the  Tigrayan  leadership.  These 
relations  hardly  improved  during  1990  when  the  OLF  was  con- 
fronted by  a  rival  group,  the  Oromo  People's  Democratic  Organi- 
zation (OPDO),  sponsored  by  the  TPLF  as  a  member  of  the 
EPRDF  umbrella  organization.  OLF  spokesmen  also  repeatedly 
denounced  EPRDF  claims  that  it  was  the  EPRDF  that  had  freed 
the  Oromo  from  the  regime's  domination.  Actions  such  as  these 
further  alienated  the  OLF  and  helped  account  for  the  rift  that  de- 
veloped shortly  after  the  occupation  of  Addis  Ababa  between  the 
OLF  and  the  EPRDF  over  the  composition  of  a  new  government — a 
disagreement  that  did  not  augur  well  for  the  future. 

The  Somali 

The  most  significant  antigovernment  force  operating  in  the 
Ogaden  was  the  Western  Somali  Liberation  Front  (WSLF;  see 


311 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


'n...^  KENYA  Boundary  representation 

/  not  necessarily  authoritative 


  International  boundary 

      Administrative  line 

  Regional  boundary 

Somali  advances,  July  1977- 
January  1978 

Ethiopian  advances,  February- 
March  1 978 

®          National  capital 

€DMfl) 

Mountain  chain 

•          Populated  place 

Mountain  pass 

'  1  h  Railroad 

Helicopter  assault 

Road 

0 

75        150  Kilometers 

0 

75                1 50  Miles 

Figure  11.  The  Ogaden  War,  1977-78 


312 


National  Security 


Other  Movements  and  Fronts,  ch.  4).  WSLF  guerrillas  first  en- 
gaged Ethiopian  troops  in  combat  in  1975,  systematically  attack- 
ing police  posts  and  army  garrisons  from  base  camps  across  the 
border  in  Somalia.  In  June  1977,  the  WSLF,  supported  by  the 
Somali  government  and  joined  by  Somali  National  Army  (SNA) 
' 'volunteers,"  succeeded  in  cutting  the  railroad  bridges  between 
Addis  Ababa  and  Djibouti,  which  carried  about  a  third  of  Ethio- 
pia's external  trade,  and  in  establishing  control  over  60  percent 
of  the  Ogaden.  At  that  time,  the  WSLF  numbered  about  6,000 
troops.  As  the  tempo  of  the  conflict  increased,  the  WSLF  relied 
more  and  more  on  Somalia's  armored  and  artillery  capabilities. 

In  July  1977,  mechanized  units  of  the  SNA  army  invaded  Ethio- 
pia in  a  preemptive  thrust  at  Harer — the  Ogaden  region's  mili- 
tary command  center — that  was  intended  to  decide  the  Ogaden 
issue  before  promised  Soviet  military  equipment  arrived  in  Ethio- 
pia (see  fig.  11).  Jijiga  fell  to  Somali  forces  in  September,  when 
the  Ethiopian  mechanized  unit  defending  it  mutinied  and  fled  in 
panic.  The  Somali  forces  then  focused  their  efforts  on  the  strategic 
Marda  (also  known  as  Karamarda)  Pass,  carrying  the  attack  into 
the  unfamiliar  highlands  to  block  Ethiopian  reinforcements  com- 
ing into  Harerge.  The  move  diverted  Ethiopian  forces  from  the 
main  offensive  aimed  at  Harer  and  Dire  Dawa,  site  of  the  air  base 
from  which  strikes  were  flown  against  targets  inside  Somalia. 

After  weeks  of  being  bogged  down  by  bad  weather,  in  January 
1978  the  SNA  pressed  a  three-pronged  attack  on  Harer,  where 
nearly  50,000  Ethiopian  troops  had  regrouped,  backed  by  Soviet- 
supplied  heavy  artillery  and  reinforced  by  10,000  Cuban  troops 
from  units  hurriedly  flown  in  from  Angola.  Early  in  February  1978, 
the  Ethiopians  launched  a  two- stage  counterattack  toward  Jijiga 
that  had  been  planned  and  directed  by  Soviet  advisers  and  backed 
by  Cuban  troops.  Moving  east  and  south  from  Dire  Dawa,  an 
Ethiopian  column  crossed  the  highlands  between  Jijiga  and  the 
Somali  border,  bypassing  Somali  troops  dug  in  around  the  Marda 
Pass.  In  the  second  offensive  strike,  joined  by  Cuban  troops,  the 
Ethiopian  army  trapped  the  Somali  forces  around  Jijiga  between 
helicopter-borne  tanks  that  had  landed  to  their  rear  and  a  deter- 
mined frontal  assault  from  Harer.  On  March  5,  the  Ethiopians 
retook  Jijiga  after  two  days  of  fierce  fighting  in  which  they  defeated 
four  Somali  brigades  and  killed  3,000  Somali  troops.  Within  a  week, 
the  Ethiopian  army  had  reestablished  control  over  all  the  region's 
major  towns.  Meanwhile,  the  Ethiopian  air  force's  F-5  fighters  had 
won  air  superiority  in  engagements  against  Soviet-made  Somali 
jets.  On  March  9,  Siad  Barre  ended  the  undeclared  war  by  an- 
nouncing that  he  had  recalled  all  SNA  troops  from  the  Ogaden. 


313 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

The  introduction  of  Soviet  equipment  and  17,000  Cuban  troops 
had  decisively  altered  the  balance  of  power  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 

After  the  withdrawal  of  the  Somali  regulars,  the  WSLF  reverted 
to  classic  guerrilla  tactics  against  the  Ethiopian  army,  whose  sol- 
diers they  characterized  as  black  colonialist  troops.  Western  jour- 
nalists visiting  the  region  in  early  1980  confirmed  that  the  WSLF 
once  again  controlled  the  countryside  and  many  of  the  main  roads. 
Also,  "volunteers,"  believed  by  many  to  have  been  troops  of  the 
SNA,  reportedly  had  rejoined  the  WSLF.  Renewed  fighting  oc- 
curred in  June  and  July  1980,  when,  according  to  an  official  spokes- 
man in  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopian  troops  repelled  an  incursion  by 
a  mechanized  Somali  force.  Meanwhile,  Ethiopia  had  started  train- 
ing and  equipping  the  Somali  Salvation  Democratic  Front  (SSDF) 
and  later  the  Somali  National  Movement  (SNM),  both  of  which 
began  launching  raids  inside  Somalia  against  the  Siad  Barre  re- 
gime. The  renewed  conflict  forced  Mogadishu  to  declare  a  state 
of  emergency  in  October  1980. 

Another  major  incident  occurred  on  June  30,  1983,  when  Ethio- 
pian troops  staged  a  two-pronged  operation  against  Somalia.  Part 
of  the  invading  Ethiopian  force  intended  to  capture  high  ground 
in  Hiiraan  Region  near  Feerfeer  on  the  Ethiopia- Somalia  frontier. 
However,  the  SNA  garrison  at  Beledweyne  repulsed  the  Ethiopian 
attack.  Farther  north,  an  Ethiopian  armored  column  overran  a 
Somali  settlement  in  Galguduud  Region.  On  July  17,  Ethiopian 
warplanes  bombed  and  strafed  the  airstrip  and  other  parts  of  Gal- 
caio,  the  capital  of  Mudug  Region.  Ethiopian  armored  columns 
also  crossed  the  border  to  the  north  and  west  of  Galcaio  and  oc- 
cupied the  village  of  Galdogob.  Until  late  1983,  there  were  numer- 
ous clashes  between  Ethiopian  and  Somali  units,  especially  near 
Balumbale  and  in  the  northwest  around  Hargeysa.  However,  the 
Somali  forces  were  unable  to  dislodge  the  Ethiopians  from  Balum- 
bale and  Galdogob. 

For  two  more  years,  Ethiopian-Somali  relations  remained  tense. 
In  July  1985,  Mengistu  and  Siad  Barre  held  discussions  at  the  OAU 
summit  in  Addis  Ababa  in  order  to  lay  the  groundwork  for  a  peace- 
ful resolution  of  the  Ogaden  problem.  Although  Ethiopian  and 
Somali  officials  held  several  more  meetings,  they  were  unable  to 
reach  a  setdement.  In  mid-January  1986,  a  meeting  between  Men- 
gistu and  Siad  Barre  in  Djibouti  resulted  in  a  "general  understand- 
ing" on  the  Ogaden  issue.  This  "understanding"  was  undermined 
on  February  12,  1987,  when  Ethiopia  launched  ground  and  air  raids 
on  areas  of  western  Somalia  three  weeks  after  protests  and  mass 
arrests  cut  off  Hargeysa  from  the  rest  of  the  country.  Although  an 
agreement  to  end  hostilities  was  signed  in  April  1988,  the  dispute 


314 


National  Security 


remained  unresolved  because  of  Addis  Ababa's  continued  support 
of  the  SNM.  After  the  downfall  of  the  Siad  Barre  regime  in  Janu- 
ary 1991 ,  tens  of  thousands  of  Somali  refugees  fled  to  the  Ogaden. 
This  exodus  only  added  to  eastern  Ethiopia's  increasing  instabil- 
ity during  the  final  months  of  the  Mengistu  regime. 

Public  Order  and  Internal  Security 

As  a  result  of  insurgencies  affecting  a  large  part  of  the  country 
in  the  1970s  and  after,  questions  of  internal  security  and  public 
order  became  inseparable  from  the  general  problem  of  national  secu- 
rity. Revisions  made  to  the  penal  code  in  1976  helped  blur  the  dis- 
tinction between  political  opposition  to  the  government  (defined 
as  criminal  activity)  and  categories  of  crime  against  persons  and 
property.  Army  security  services  and  counterinsurgency  units  as- 
sumed many  functions  formerly  assigned  to  the  national  police's 
paramilitary  and  constabulary  units,  and  local  law  enforcement  was 
delegated  largely  to  the  civilian  paramilitary  People's  Protection 
Brigades,  drawn  from  peasant  association  and  kebele  defense  squads. 
Although  criminal  investigation  remained  an  important  part  of  the 
mission  of  the  national  police,  units  of  its  heavily  armed  Mobile 
Emergency  Police  Force  were  employed  in  pursuing  insurgents  and 
rooting  out  political  dissidents.  The  gradual  isolation  of  the  Men- 
gistu regime  during  the  1980s  meant  that  these  and  other  mea- 
sures designed  to  suppress  internal  dissent  remained  in  force  until 
the  military  government  collapsed. 

The  National  Police 

In  traditional  Ethiopian  society,  customary  law  resolved  conflicts, 
and  families  usually  avenged  wrongs  committed  against  their  mem- 
bers. The  private  armies  of  the  nobility  enforced  law  in  the  coun- 
tryside according  to  the  will  of  their  leaders.  In  1916  the  imperial 
government  formed  a  civilian  municipal  guard  in  Addis  Ababa  to 
ensure  obedience  to  legal  proclamations.  The  general  public 
despised  the  municipal  guard,  nearly  all  of  whose  members  were 
inefficient  at  preserving  public  order  or  investigating  criminal  ac- 
tivities. 

In  1935  the  emperor  authorized  the  establishment  of  formal, 
British-trained  police  forces  in  Addis  Ababa  and  four  other  cities. 
Seven  years  later,  he  organized  the  Imperial  Ethiopian  Police  under 
British  tutelage  as  a  centralized  national  force  with  paramilitary 
and  constabulary  units.  In  1946  the  authorities  opened  the  Ethio- 
pian Police  College  at  Sendafa.  In  1956  the  imperial  government 
amalgamated  the  separate  city  police  forces  with  the  national  police 
force.  Initially  administered  as  a  department  of  the  Ministry  of 


315 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Interior,  the  national  police  had  evolved,  by  the  early  1970s,  into 
an  independent  agency  commanded  by  a  police  commissioner 
responsible  to  the  emperor. 

Local  control  over  police  was  minimal,  despite  imperial  procla- 
mations that  granted  police  authority  to  governors  general  of  the 
provinces.  Assistant  police  commissioners  in  each  of  the  fourteen 
provinces  worked  in  conjunction  with  the  governors  general,  but 
for  the  most  part  Addis  Ababa  directed  administration.  The  Ter- 
ritorial Army's  provincial  units,  commanded  by  the  governor  gen- 
eral and  by  an  unpaid  civilian  auxiliary  in  areas  where  police  were 
scarce,  assisted  the  national  police  force.  Police  posts  were  found 
in  all  cities  and  larger  towns  and  at  strategic  points  along  the  main 
roads  in  the  countryside.  The  police  usually  recruited  local  men 
who  were  familiar  with  the  social  values  of  the  areas  in  which  they 
served;  however,  the  populace  rarely  looked  upon  such  individ- 
uals with  affection.  Police  operations  generally  emphasized  punish- 
ment rather  than  prevention. 

In  1974  the  national  police  numbered  approximately  28,000  in 
all  branches,  including  6,000  in  the  Mobile  Emergency  Police  Force; 
1,200  frontier  guards;  and  a  3,200-member  commando  unit  with 
rapid  reaction  capability.  The  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West 
Germany)  supplied  the  paramilitary  police  with  weapons  and  ve- 
hicles and  installed  a  nationwide  teleprinter  system,  while  Israeli 
counterinsurgency  specialists  trained  commandos  and  frontier 
guards.  About  5,000  constabulary  police,  mostly  recruited  locally, 
served  in  Eritrea,  as  did  2,500  commandos. 

After  the  1974  overthrow  of  Haile  Selassie,  the  new  Marxist 
government  severely  circumscribed  the  authority  of  the  national 
police,  which  had  been  identified  with  the  old  regime  and  regional 
interests.  The  authorities  accused  constables  of  protecting  landown- 
ers against  peasants  in  the  countryside,  of  arresting  supporters  of 
the  military  regime  in  Addis  Ababa,  and  of  being  members  of  the 
' 'rightist  opposition."  In  Eritrea,  however,  the  army  already  had 
taken  over  police  functions  in  January  1975  from  local  police  units 
suspected  of  being  sympathetic  to  the  secessionists.  The  Asmera 
police  voluntarily  stayed  at  their  posts  for  some  time  after  their 
dismissal  to  protect  civilians  from  attack  by  unruly  soldiers. 

In  1977  the  Mengistu  regime  reorganized  the  national  police, 
placing  a  politically  reliable  commissioner  in  command.  A  secu- 
rity committee  formulated  policy,  which  then  was  implemented  by 
the  Ministry  of  Interior.  The  army  assumed  a  larger  role  in  crimi- 
nal investigation  and  in  maintaining  public  order.  People's  Pro- 
tection Brigades  took  over  local  law  enforcement  duties  previously 
assigned  to  the  constabulary.  As  a  result  of  these  changes,  by  1982 


316 


National  Security 


the  strength  of  the  national  police  had  declined  to  about  17,000. 
Mengistu  also  created  the  army's  new  Eighth  Division  from  police 
commando  units.  Other  special  units  joined  the  augmented 
9,000-member  paramilitary  Mobile  Emergency  Police  Force  for 
employment  in  counterinsurgency  operations. 

The  Directorate  of  Police,  which  reported  to  the  commissioner, 
included  the  special  Criminal  Investigation  Branch,  which  had  the 
role  in  directing  police  counterinsurgency  activities  through  regional 
branch  offices.  Another  branch  of  the  directorate  investigated  eco- 
nomic crimes,  particularly  smuggling  and  other  forms  of  illicit  com- 
merce. The  Revolutionary  Operations  Coordinating  Committee, 
organized  at  the  subregion  level,  cooperated  with  the  police  in 
battling  smuggling  and  economic  sabotage. 

The  Marxist  regime  stressed  that  the  mission  of  the  national 
police  was  essentially  political — more  involved  with  suppressing  po- 
litical dissent  as  the  local  law  enforcement  role  shifted  to  People's 
Protection  Brigades.  Mengistu  described  the  police  mission  as  con- 
tributing to  the  "intensification  of  the  class  struggle." 

The  government  adopted  a  policy  whereby  police  constables  were 
recruited  at  an  early  age  and  trained  in  their  native  regions.  Train- 
ing was  designed  to  allow  police  stationed  in  remote  areas  to  be 
self-sufficient  in  building  and  maintaining  their  posts.  Training  stan- 
dards were  not  uniform,  and,  unless  it  took  place  in  Addis  Ababa, 
in-service  or  specialized  training  was  limited.  In  politically  stable 
rural  areas  where  duty  requirements  and  supervision  were  less  ex- 
acting, the  police  were  less  efficient  than  their  urban  counterparts. 
A  high  percentage  of  rural  constables  could  neither  read  nor  write 
and  therefore  did  not  keep  records  of  their  activities.  Many  crimes 
were  considered  to  be  matters  concerning  only  the  persons  involved 
and  were  often  ignored  by  the  police  unless  one  of  the  interested 
parties  filed  a  complaint. 

The  Addis  Ababa  police,  by  contrast,  were  organized  into 
uniformed,  detective,  and  traffic  units;  a  riot  squad,  or  "flying 
column";  and  a  police  laboratory — organizational  refinements  not 
found  in  regional  police  units.  A  small  number  of  women  served 
in  police  units  in  large  cities.  Generally,  they  were  employed  in 
administrative  positions  or  as  guards  for  female  prisoners.  National 
police  officers  were  paid  according  to  the  same  standardized  wage 
scale  that  applied  to  members  of  the  armed  forces. 

As  a  rule,  police  in  constabulary  units  were  armed  only  with  ba- 
tons. Small  arms  usually  were  kept  in  designated  armories  and  were 
issued  for  specific  duties.  Materiel  used  by  paramilitary  units  in- 
cluded heavy  machine  guns,  submachine  guns,  automatic  rifles, 
side  arms,  mortars,  grenades,  tear  gas,  light  armored  vehicles,  and 


317 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

other  equipment  adaptable  to  riot  control  and  counterinsurgency 
operations.  Larger  police  units,  such  as  the  one  in  Addis  Ababa, 
were  also  equipped  with  modern  military  vehicles,  which  were  used 
as  patrol  cars  and  police  vans.  In  many  rural  areas,  however,  horses 
and  mules  were  often  the  sole  means  of  transportation  for  constables. 

Officers  usually  were  commissioned  after  completion  of  a  cadet 
course  at  the  Ethiopian  Police  College  at  Sendafa,  near  Addis 
Ababa.  Staffed  by  Swedish  instructors,  the  school  opened  in  1946, 
but  since  1 960  the  faculty  had  consisted  entirely  of  Ethiopians  who 
were  police  college  graduates.  Candidates  for  the  two-year  course 
had  to  have  a  secondary  school  education  or  its  equivalent.  After 
the  Derg  took  power,  the  government  increased  enrollment  to  bring 
new  blood  into  the  national  police;  from  1974  to  1979,  about  800 
graduates  received  commissions  as  second  lieutenants. 

Instruction  at  the  college  included  general  courses  in  police 
science,  criminal  law,  tactics,  traffic  control,  sociology,  criminol- 
ogy, physical  education,  and  first  aid,  as  well  as  political  indoctri- 
nation. Practical  training  was  offered  midway  in  the  program  and 
sometimes  entailed  field  service  in  troubled  areas.  Those  few  cadets 
who  had  passed  their  final  examinations  with  distinction  were  se- 
lected for  further  specialized  training.  The  police  college  also  offered 
short-term  courses  and  refresher  training  for  service  officers.  It 
cooperated  with  the  army  in  training  military  police  in  traffic  con- 
trol and  criminal  investigation  techniques.  By  the  end  of  1990,  the 
police  college  had  graduated  a  total  of  3,951  officer  cadets  in  the 
years  since  its  establishment  in  1946. 

People's  Protection  Brigades 

Soon  after  the  overthrow  of  the  imperial  regime,  the  Derg  moved 
to  consolidate  the  revolution  at  the  grass-roots  level  by  promoting 
the  creation  of  peasant  associations  and  kebeles  (see  Peasant  Associ- 
ations; Kebeles,  ch.  4).  These  associations  had  tribunals  that  per- 
mitted them  to  exercise  criminal  and  civil  jurisdiction  over  legal 
matters  (see  The  Legal  System,  this  ch.).  More  important,  the 
government  also  legitimized  local  defense  squads,  granting  them 
police  powers  within  designated  areas.  Defense  squads  also  pro- 
tected public  property  and  enforced  land  reform  measures,  but  their 
original  function  was  the  essentially  political  one  of  rounding  up — 
and  often  disposing  of — suspected  government  opponents.  Dur- 
ing the  Red  Terror  (see  Glossary)  campaign  of  1977-78,  the  power 
of  the  kebeles  was  virtually  unrestricted,  and  the  defense  squads 
emerged  as  the  regime's  chief  instruments  of  coercion  within  the 
capital.  However,  in  reaction  to  the  defense  squads'  excessive  use 
of  violence,  Mengistu  curbed  their  powers  in  April  1978. 


318 


National  Security 


In  1978  the  People's  Protection  Brigades  were  created  from  an 
estimated  10,000  defense  squad  vigilantes.  Their  function  was  to 
act  as  local  law  enforcement  agencies  within  the  jurisdiction  of  each 
peasant  association  and  kebele.  Although  promoted  as  instruments 
of  decentralization,  the  brigades  answered  to  the  security  chief  of 
the  Central  Committee  of  the  Commission  to  Organize  the  Party 
of  the  Workers  of  Ethiopia  (COPWE;  see  Toward  Party  Forma- 
tion, ch.  4).  Although  the  People's  Protection  Brigades  retained 
a  political  role,  after  1980  these  paramilitary  units  concentrated 
on  local  police  duties.  Brigade  members  received  up  to  five  months' 
training  in  police  and  military  tactics  from  East  German  instruc- 
tors. Some  brigade  personnel  had  served  on  active  duty  in  Eritrea, 
Tigray,  and  the  Ogaden. 

Crime  and  Punishment 
The  Legal  System 

Although  Ethiopians  have  long  depended  on  written  laws,  the 
criminal  legal  system  observed  at  the  time  of  the  1974  revolution 
was  of  relatively  recent  origin.  The  first  integrated  legal  code,  the 
Fetha  Nagast  (Law  of  Kings),  was  translated  from  Arabic  in  the  mid- 
fifteenth  century.  Attributed  to  a  thirteenth- century  Egyptian  Coptic 
scholar,  it  was  inspired  by  the  Pentateuch  (the  first  five  books  of 
the  Old  Testament),  the  New  Testament,  canons  of  the  Christi- 
ans' early  church  councils,  Roman  civil  law,  and  tenets  of  Quranic 
law.  However,  the  Fetha  Nagast  applied  only  to  Christians.  Mus- 
lims who  became  subject  to  Ethiopian  rule  through  conquest  con- 
tinued to  be  judged  in  their  own  courts  according  to  sharia  law 
(see  Islam,  ch.  2).  Also,  outside  the  ordinary  judicial  system,  clan 
and  tribal  courts  exercised  unofficial  but  effective  coercive  pow- 
ers, and  people  rarely  appealed  their  decisions  to  regular  courts. 

The  Fetha  Nagast  and  customary  laws  remained  the  basis  of  crimi- 
nal judicial  procedure  until  1930,  when  Haile  Selassie  introduced 
a  penal  code,  which,  although  primitive  in  its  application,  strove 
for  modernity  in  its  articulation.  Unlike  the  old  system,  the  1930 
penal  code  set  down  specific  punishments  for  precisely  defined 
offenses.  It  was  a  legal  principle  that  a  person  who  performed  an 
act  not  prohibited  by  law  committed  no  crime;  nor  were  acts  of  omis- 
sion punishable  by  law.  The  code  made  distinctions  among  prepara- 
tory acts,  attempted  crimes,  and  completed  offenses.  Preparation 
in  itself  was  not  considered  criminal,  nor  were  unsuccessful  attempts, 
especially  ones  in  which  commission  of  the  offense  was  judged  to 
be  "absolutely  impossible."  Courts  did  not  inflict  punishment  if  the 
accused  acted  out  of  superstition  or  "simplicity  of  mind." 


319 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


The  penal  code  was  strong  on  retribution,  but  the  courts  deter- 
mined penalties  according  to  the  degree  of  individual  guilt.  In  ad- 
dition, the  courts  took  into  consideration  an  offender's  background, 
education,  and  motives,  as  well  as  the  offense's  gravity  and  the 
circumstances  of  its  commission.  In  theory,  the  courts  meted  out 
the  most  severe  punishments  to  persons  of  title  and  wealth  on  the 
premise  that  such  offenders  had  less  reasonable  motives  for  crimi- 
nal action  than  did  persons  of  lower  station.  Among  the  complaints 
of  ethnic  dissidents,  however,  was  the  allegation  that  any  offense 
against  an  Amhara  resulted  in  more  severe  punishment  than  an 
Amhara's  offense  against  a  non- Amhara.  The  new  code  abolished 
mutilation  but  retained  capital  punishment  and  permitted  flogging. 
Although  more  sophisticated  than  the  Fetha  Nagast,  from  which  it 
ostensibly  was  derived,  the  1930  penal  code  lacked  a  comprehen- 
sive approach  to  the  disposition  and  treatment  of  offenders. 

In  1958  a  Swiss  legal  expert  drafted  a  revised  penal  code  to  meet 
the  needs  of  a  developing  nation.  A  1961  criminal  procedures  code, 
drafted  by  a  British  jurist,  augmented  the  1930  penal  code.  The 
former  was  based  on  the  Swiss  penal  code  and  many  secondary 
sources;  the  latter  reflected  the  influence  of  English  common  law. 

For  virtually  every  offense  listed  in  the  revised  penal  code,  there 
were  upper  and  lower  limits  of  punishment.  The  effect  was  to  stress 
acceptance  of  the  concept  of  degrees  of  culpability,  as  well  as  the 
concept  of  extenuating  and  aggravating  circumstances.  Separate 
provisions  existed  for  juveniles.  Nevertheless,  the  commission  ap- 
pointed to  approve  the  revision  repeatedly  expressed  the  traditional 
view  that  "punishment  should  remain  the  pillar  of  Ethiopian  crimi- 
nal law." 

Following  the  1974  revolution,  a  normal  legal  process  theoreti- 
cally was  in  effect  for  dealing  with  criminal  offenses.  Existing  parallel 
to  it  was  a  "revolutionary"  system  of  neighborhood  justice.  In  prac- 
tice, it  was  impossible  to  distinguish  between  criminal  acts  and  po- 
litical offenses  according  to  the  definitions  adopted  in  post- 1974 
revisions  of  the  penal  code. 

A  November  1974  decree  introduced  martial  law,  which  set  up 
a  system  of  military  tribunals  empowered  to  impose  the  death 
penalty  or  long  prison  terms  for  a  wide  range  of  political  offenses. 
The  decree  applied  the  law  retroactively  to  the  old  regime's  offi- 
cials who  had  been  accused  of  responsibility  for  famine  deaths,  cor- 
ruption, and  maladministration  and  who  had  been  held  without 
formal  charges  since  earlier  in  the  year.  Special  three-member  mili- 
tary tribunals  sat  in  Addis  Ababa  and  in  each  of  the  country's  four- 
teen administrative  regions. 


320 


National  Security 


In  July  1976,  the  government  amended  the  penal  code  to  insti- 
tute the  death  penalty  for  "antirevolutionary  activities"  and  eco- 
nomic crimes.  Investigation  of  political  crimes  came  under  the 
overall  direction  of  the  Revolutionary  Operations  Coordinating 
Committee  in  each  awraja.  In  political  cases,  the  courts  waived 
search  warrants  required  by  the  criminal  procedures  code.  The 
government  transferred  jurisdiction  from  the  military  tribunals, 
which  had  been  inactive  for  some  time,  to  kebele  and  peasant  as- 
sociation tribunals.  Political  trials  constituted  the  main  business 
of  these  tribunals  well  into  1978. 

More  generally,  the  1976  revision  of  the  penal  code  empowered 
association  tribunals  to  deal  with  criminal  offenses  but  limited  their 
jurisdiction  to  their  urban  neighborhood  or  rural  area.  Elected 
magistrates,  without  formal  legal  training,  conducted  criminal  trials. 
Procedures,  precedents,  and  punishments  varied  widely  from 
tribunal  to  tribunal,  depending  on  the  imperatives  of  the  associa- 
tion involved.  Peasant  association  tribunals  accepted  appeals  at  the 
wereda  (district)  level.  Appellate  decisions  were  final,  but  decisions 
disputed  between  associations  could  be  brought  before  peasant  as- 
sociation courts  at  the  awraja  level.  In  cities,  kebele  tribunals  were 
similarly  organized  in  a  three-tier  system.  Change  of  venue  was 
arranged  if  a  defendant  committed  an  offense  in  another  juris- 
diction. 

The  judicial  system  was  designed  to  be  flexible.  Magistrates  could 
decide  not  to  hear  a  case  if  the  defendant  pleaded  guilty  to  minor 
charges  and  made  a  public  apology.  Nonetheless,  torture  was  some- 
times used  to  compel  suspects  and  witnesses  to  testify.  Penalties 
imposed  at  the  local  association  level  included  fines  of  up  to  300 
birr,  compensation  to  victims  in  amounts  determined  by  the 
tribunal,  imprisonment  for  up  to  three  months,  and  hard  labor  for 
up  to  fifteen  days.  Serious  criminal  cases  were  held  over,  depend- 
ing on  their  gravity,  for  association  tribunals  sitting  at  the  awraja 
or  wereda  level,  which  were  qualified  to  hand  down  stiffer  sentences. 
In  theory,  death  sentences  were  reviewed  by  government  officials, 
but  little  effort  was  made  to  interfere  with  the  administration  of 
local  justice.  Tribunal  decisions  were  implemented  through  an  as- 
sociation's public  safety  committee  and  were  enforced  by  the  local 
People's  Protection  Brigade.  Without  effective  review  of  their  ac- 
tions, tribunals  were  known  to  order  indefinite  jailings,  during 
which  their  suspects  sometimes  disappeared,  as  well  as  summary 
executions.  On  rare  occasions,  the  government  would  condemn 
association  officials  for  murder  and  torture  committed  in  the  course 
of  dispensing  "revolutionary  justice." 


321 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


The  1976  revision  of  the  penal  code  also  created  new  categories 
of  so-called  economic  crimes.  The  list  included  hoarding,  overcharg- 
ing, and  interfering  with  the  distribution  of  consumer  commodi- 
ties. More  serious  offenses  concerned  engaging  in  sabotage  at  the 
work  place  or  of  agricultural  production,  conspiring  to  confuse  work 
force  members,  and  destroying  vehicles  and  public  property.  Secu- 
rity sections  of  the  Revolutionary  Operations  Coordinating  Com- 
mittee investigated  economic  crimes  at  the  awraja  level  and  enforced 
land  reform  provisions  through  the  peasant  associations.  These  com- 
mittees were  empowered  to  indict  suspects  and  hold  them  for  trial 
before  local  tribunals.  Penalties  could  entail  confiscation  of  property, 
a  long  prison  term,  or  a  death  sentence. 

In  1981  the  Amended  Special  Penal  Code  replaced  the  Special 
Penal  Code.  This  amended  code  included  offenses  against  the 
government  and  the  head  of  state,  such  as  crimes  against  the  state's 
independence  and  territorial  integrity,  armed  uprising,  and  com- 
mission of  "counterrevolutionary"  acts  (these  provisions  also  were 
in  the  earlier  Special  Penal  Code);  breach  of  trust  by  public  officials 
and  economic  offenses,  including  grain  hoarding,  illegal  currency 
transactions,  and  corruption;  and  abuse  of  authority,  including  "im- 
proper or  brutal"  treatment  of  a  prisoner,  unlawful  detention  of 
a  prisoner,  and  creating  or  failing  to  control  famine. 

The  Amended  Special  Penal  Code  also  abolished  the  Special  Mili- 
tary Courts  and  created  new  Special  Courts  to  try  offenses  under 
the  Amended  Special  Penal  Code.  Special  Courts  consisted  of  three 
civilian  judges  and  applied  the  existing  criminal  and  civil  proce- 
dure codes.  Defendants  had  the  right  to  legal  representation  and 
to  appeal  to  a  Special  Appeal  Court. 

Prisons 

Detailed  information  on  Ethiopia's  prison  system  was  limited. 
Only  generalized  data  were  available  on  prison  installations. 

Although  the  imperial  regime  achieved  some  progress  in  the  field 
of  prison  reform,  most  prisons  failed  to  adopt  modern  penological 
methods.  Government-published  figures  on  prison  populations  since 
1974  were  considered  incomplete  and  misleading.  Amnesty  Inter- 
national, the  London-based  human  rights  organization,  and  a  few 
individuals  who  survived  detention  and  escaped  from  the  country 
have  described  prison  conditions  in  a  critical  light. 

The  administrator  of  prisons  managed  the  national  penal  sys- 
tem. Each  administrative  unit — including  kifle  hager  (region),  awraja 
(subregion),  and  wereda  (district) — had  at  least  one  prison.  Addis 
Ababa's  Akaki  (or  Central)  Prison,  considered  Ethiopia's  most 
modern  penal  facility  in  1974,  was  the  central  prison  for  Shewa. 


322 


Somali  troops  in  the  Ogaden 


Akaki  had  separate  facilities  for  female  political  prisoners.  The  larg- 
est number  of  political  prisoners,  approximately  1 ,500  in  1989,  was 
housed  in  Akaki 's  maximum  security  section.  Reportedly,  the 
government  had  jailed  political  dissidents  at  numerous  other  pris- 
ons in  Addis  Ababa,  including  Fourth  Division  headquarters;  the 
Third  Police  Station,  which  also  served  as  national  police  head- 
quarters and  an  interrogation  center;  and  the  Grand  (Menelik's) 
Palace.  Asmera,  another  center  for  political  prisoners,  had  penal 
facilities  at  three  locations.  Most  police  stations  and  army  garri- 
sons also  had  jails.  Each  kebele  and  peasant  association  operated 
a  jail  in  its  jurisdiction.  Association  headquarters  in  each  wereda 
and  awraja  also  had  prisons. 

A  prison  farm  at  Robi  in  Arsi  provided  facilities  for  about  850 
prisoners.  In  1978  the  government  proposed  a  plan  for  deploying 
large  numbers  of  inmates  imprisoned  for  minor  offenses  to  work 
on  minimum-security  state  farms  as  part  of  the  agricultural  de- 
velopment plan.  A  single  institution  oversaw  the  rehabilitation  of 
male  juvenile  criminal  offenders.  There  was  no  comparable  facil- 
ity for  female  juvenile  offenders,  who  usually  were  placed  in  the 
custody  of  their  parents  or  guardians.  In  exceptional  pre-1974  cases, 
the  authorities  jailed  juveniles  in  larger  prisons.  After  the  emer- 
gence of  the  Marxist  regime,  a  large  but  unspecified  number  of 
youthful  political  detainees  of  both  genders  were  held  in  prisons 


323 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

and  association  jails.  Many  were  released  after  a  period  of  "politi- 
cal rehabilitation." 

Historically,  prison  life  in  Ethiopia  was  gloomy  and  for  political 
prisoners  extremely  brutal.  The  so-called  process  of  rehabilitation 
often  consisted  of  severe  beatings,  exhausting  work  and  calisthen- 
ics, and  political  indoctrination.  A  public  confession  normally  was 
proof  of  rehabilitation;  in  some  cases,  a  political  detainee's  will- 
ingness to  torture  fellow  prisoners  was  regarded  as  an  indication 
of  his  penitence.  Recreational  facilities  were  rare,  and  no  program 
existed  to  assist  prisoners  after  their  release.  Punishment  was  the 
major  concern  of  prison  officials.  Conditions  in  smaller,  more  re- 
mote prisons  were  worse  than  in  the  prisons  of  Addis  Ababa,  and 
peasant  association  jails  were  worse  yet.  As  part  of  a  program  in 
the  late  1970s  to  expand  and  improve  the  Ethiopian  prison  sys- 
tem, the  Cuban  government  reportedly  constructed  new  prisons 
that  included  facilities  for  solitary  confinement. 

In  its  1978  report  on  human  rights  violations  in  Ethiopia,  Am- 
nesty International  stated  that  Ethiopian  prisons  had  failed  to  abide 
by  UN  regulations  for  the  treatment  of  prisoners.  A  large  number 
of  prisoners  might  share  a  common  cell.  In  the  Central  Prison's 
maximum  security  section,  for  example,  Amnesty  International 
reported  that  as  many  as  fifty  prisoners  shared  cells  measuring  four 
meters  by  four  meters.  Ad  hoc  committees — organized  in  each  cell 
for  self-imposed  discipline,  food  distribution,  care  of  the  sick  and 
aged,  and  orientation  of  new  inmates — often  communalized  food 
and  luxuries,  such  as  tea  and  tobacco,  donated  by  relatives.  Com- 
plaints reached  Amnesty  International  that  cells  were  infested  with 
pests  and  were  unventilated  and  lacking  the  most  basic  sanitary 
facilities.  Medical  attention  was  generally  inadequate  and  not  even 
available  at  all  facilities.  Even  seriously  ill  prisoners  rarely  received 
hospital  treatment,  and  many  died  of  natural  causes  aggravated 
by  their  imprisonment.  Cell  mates  viewed  death  as  a  means  of 
relieving  the  gross  overcrowding  typical  of  facilities  housing  polit- 
ical prisoners  during  the  late  1970s.  The  authorities  usually  in- 
formed families  of  the  death  of  their  relatives  by  telling  them  "food 
is  no  longer  necessary." 

Although  conditions  in  Addis  Ababa's  Central  Prison  improved 
somewhat  by  the  late  1980s,  most  prison  facilities  remained  sub- 
standard. In  1989  Amnesty  International  reported  that  individuals 
incarcerated  in  government-operated  prisons  were  held  in  poor  and 
sometimes  harsh  conditions.  However,  the  report  noted  that  pris- 
ons were  subject  to  formal  regulations,  and  there  were  few  reports 
of  torture. 


324 


National  Security 


The  human  rights  organization  also  indicated  that  conditions 
in  the  Central  Prison,  which  Menelik  II  had  built  in  the  nineteenth 
century,  had  improved  in  the  1980s.  The  prison's  4,500  inmates 
were  allowed  regular  family  visits,  and  relatives  were  permitted 
to  send  food,  laundry,  books,  medicine,  and  other  "comfort"  items 
to  jailed  family  members.  Although  the  Central  Prison  provided 
basic  medical  treatment,  the  authorities  authorized  prisoners  to  see 
an  independent  physician  or  to  seek  treatment  at  local  hospitals. 
During  daylight  hours,  prisoners  were  free  to  associate  with  each 
other.  The  Central  Prison  opened  a  shop  where  small  items  were 
sold;  a  nursery  and  a  primary  school  were  established  for  children 
who  stayed  with  their  imprisoned  mothers;  and  a  secondary  school 
was  created  where  prisoners  taught  or  studied.  Additionally, 
prisoners  were  free  to  open  their  own  recreational  and  educational 
facilities.  Despite  these  findings,  however,  Amnesty  International 
concluded  that  the  Central  Prison  suffered  from  "inadequate  med- 
ical care,  poor  hygiene,  delays  in  obtaining  professional  medical 
or  hospital  treatment,  overcrowding  of  cells  .  .  .  [and]  .  .  .  epi- 
demics of  cholera  and  meningitis."  In  addition,  conditions  at  other 
special  detention  centers  were  substandard. 

In  regional  prisons,  Amnesty  International  found  prison  condi- 
tions to  be  much  worse  than  those  in  Addis  Ababa  because  of  greater 
overcrowding  and  poorer  hygiene  and  medical  facilities.  Prison 
authorities  in  Asmera,  Mekele,  and  Harer  subjected  inmates  to 
harsher  restrictions  than  did  authorities  in  the  capital.  In  Harer 
and  other  unstable  areas,  civilian  political  prisoners  often  were  held 
in  military  custody  at  military  facilities  under  more  severe  condi- 
tions than  were  found  in  other  prisons. 

Emphasis- in  larger  prisons  was  placed  on  work  during  confine- 
ment for  criminal  offenders,  but  these  activities  generally  were  lim- 
ited to  individuals  serving  long  sentences.  Priority  was  given  to 
production,  and  there  was  little  effort  to  provide  vocational  train- 
ing. The  largest  prison  industry  was  weaving,  which  was  usually 
done  on  primitive  looms.  The  prison  weavers  produced  cotton 
material  used  for  making  clothes  and  rugs.  Carpentry  was  a  high- 
ly developed  prison  industry,  and  inmates  produced  articles  of  rela- 
tively good  quality.  Other  prison  industries  included  blacksmithing, 
metalworking,  jewelry  making,  basket  weaving,  flour  milling,  and 
baking.  Those  short-term  prisoners  not  absorbed  into  established 
prison  industries  worked  in  gardens  that  provided  food  for  some 
of  the  penal  institutions. 

Income  from  materials  produced  by  prison  labor  was  applied 
to  the  upkeep  of  penal  facilities.  Prisoners  received  about  10  per- 
cent of  the  proceeds  derived  from  the  sale  of  items,  but  typically 


325 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

most  of  these  funds  were  dedicated  to  communal  projects  intended 
to  improve  prison  amenities.  Although  prison  industries  were  not 
geared  to  rehabilitation,  some  inmates  acquired  useful  skills.  In 
certain  cases,  the  government  permitted  work  furloughs  for  some 
classes  of  political  prisoners. 

Most  prison  guards  were  military  veterans  who  had  received  small 
plots  of  land  in  exchange  for  temporary  duty  at  a  prison.  Under 
this  system,  the  guards  changed  frequently  as  the  duty  rotated 
among  a  number  of  such  persons  living  in  the  vicinity  of  a  penal 
institution. 

Human  Rights 

Despite  much  rhetoric  on  the  part  of  the  Mengistu  government 
to  the  contrary  and  an  entire  chapter  of  the  1987  constitution  de- 
voted to  "basic  freedoms  and  rights,"  Ethiopia  under  Mengistu 
had  one  of  the  worst  human  rights  records  in  the  world.  Haile 
Selassie's  modernization  of  the  penal  code  and  the  introduction 
of  legal  guarantees  in  the  1955  constitution  indicated  at  least  a  recog- 
nition of  the  human  rights  problem.  But  Amnesty  International 
described  subsequent  improvements  in  human  rights  conditions 
as  "severely  qualified."  Human  rights  violations  after  1974  in- 
creased dramatically,  despite  the  regime's  assurances  to  the  UN 
that  political  prisoners  received  "fair  trials"  and  obtained  adequate 
food  and  clothing  from  their  families.  According  to  reports  issued 
by  Amnesty  International,  the  International  Committee  of  the  Red 
Cross,  and  the  testimony  of  refugees,  the  human  rights  situation 
deteriorated  still  further  from  1976  to  1978.  Although  human  rights 
organizations  often  lacked  verification  of  the  exact  extent  of  viola- 
tions, many  observers  made  repeated  charges  that  Ethiopian  troops 
had  massacred  civilians  and  committed  atrocities  in  Eritrea  and 
that  the  Ethiopian  government  had  perpetrated  human  rights  vio- 
lations throughout  the  country,  including  arbitrary  arrests,  im- 
prisonment without  due  process,  torture,  summary  executions,  and 
mass  killings  during  the  Red  Terror. 

In  a  report  based  on  the  observations  of  a  1976  fact-finding  visit 
to  Ethiopia,  Amnesty  International  stated  that,  since  1974,  "there 
has  developed  a  consistent  pattern  of  widespread  gross  human  rights 
violations,"  and  it  singled  out  the  association  tribunals  for  the  most 
egregious  disregard  of  basic  human  values.  Addis  Ababa  responded 
to  this  charge  by  labeling  the  evidence  presented  by  Amnesty  In- 
ternational as  "imperialist  propaganda  [against]  authentic  socialist 
revolution"  and  claimed  that  actions  taken  against  political  dissi- 
dents during  the  Red  Terror  were  "justified"  for  the  elimination 
of  "counterrevolutionaries. "  Official  sources  subsequently  added 


326 


National  Security 


that  the  human  rights  enjoyed  by  the  "broad  masses"  were  greater 
than  they  had  been  before  the  revolution  and  dismissed  the  "in- 
dividual human  rights"  concept  that  was  the  premise  of  Western 
criticism  of  the  regime  as  being  irrelevant  to  a  revolutionary  govern- 
ment building  a  Marxist  society. 

The  enormity  of  government-sponsored  operations  against  sus- 
pected political  opponents  during  the  Red  Terror  has  defied  ac- 
curate analysis  and  has  made  attempts  at  quantification  of  casualties 
irrelevant.  Amnesty  International,  for  example,  concluded  that 
"this  campaign  resulted  in  several  thousand  to  perhaps  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  men,  women,  and  children,  killed,  tortured,  and  impri- 
soned." Other  sources  estimated  that,  during  1977-78,  about 
30,000  people  had  perished  as  a  result  of  the  Red  Terror  and  harsh 
conditions  in  prisons,  kebele  jails,  and  concentration  camps.  Ethio- 
pian sources  opposed  to  the  Marxist  regime  claimed  that  the  secu- 
rity forces  had  killed  2,000  teachers  and  students  in  a  pre-May  Day 
1978  massacre  in  Addis  Ababa.  The  authorities  also  executed 
hundreds  of  unarmed  Eritrean  civilians  in  Asmera  while  the  city 
was  under  siege  by  secessionists  in  December  1977.  In  a  single  sweep 
in  Addis  Ababa  the  same  month,  troops  killed  about  1,000  stu- 
dents for  distributing  antigovernment  leaflets. 

During  the  Red  Terror  in  Addis  Ababa,  security  forces  frequently 
mutilated  the  bodies  of  political  dissidents,  dumping  them  along 
roads  or  stacking  them  on  street  corners.  They  also  forced  some 
victims  to  dig  their  own  graves  before  being  executed.  The  govern- 
ment required  families  to  pay  a  "bullet  fee"  of  about  125  birr  to 
retrieve  bodies  of  relatives,  when  they  could  be  found  and  identi- 
fied. Sweden's  Save  the  Children  Fund  lodged  a  protest  in  early 
1978  alleging  the  execution  of  about  1,000  children,  many  below 
the  age  of  thirteen,  whom  the  government  had  labeled  "liaison 
agents  of  the  counterrevolutionaries."  Based  on  its  assessment  of 
the  human  rights  situation  in  Ethiopia  in  1979,  the  United  States 
Department  of  State  reported  to  congressional  committees  in  Febru- 
ary 1980  that  "serious  violations  of  individual  rights  and  civil  and 
political  liberties  take  place  in  Ethiopia  amidst  a  restructed  eco- 
nomic and  social  system  that  is  aimed  at  improving  the  basic  liv- 
ing conditions  of  the  great  majority  of  the  country's  poor." 

During  the  1984-85  famine  in  northern  Ethiopia,  the  Mengistu 
regime  devised  a  scheme  to  resettle  1 . 5  million  people  onto  so-called 
virgin  lands  in  southern  Ethiopia.  The  government  forcibly  moved 
people  who  resisted  the  plan,  and  many  of  those  who  were  reset- 
tled fled  to  Sudan  and  took  refuge  in  camps  or  tried  to  walk  back 
to  their  northern  homelands  (see  Resettlement  and  Villagization, 
ch.  2;  The  Politics  of  Resettlement,  ch.  4).  According  to  a  report 


327 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


issued  by  an  international  medical  group,  100,000  people  died  as 
a  result  of  Mengistu's  resettlement  policy;  Cultural  Survival, 
another  humanitarian  organization,  estimated  that  50,000  to 
100,000  died.  To  make  matters  worse,  Mengistu  refused  to  allow 
food  to  be  distributed  in  areas  where  inhabitants  were  sympathe- 
tic to  the  EPLF,  TPLF,  or  other  antigovernment  groups,  a  strat- 
egy that  resulted  in  the  deaths  of  tens  of  thousands. 

When  a  new  famine  emerged  in  late  1989,  threatening  the  lives 
of  2  million  to  5  million  people,  Mengistu  again  used  food  as  a 
weapon  by  banning  the  movement  of  relief  supplies  along  the  main 
road  north  from  Addis  Ababa  to  Tigray  and  also  along  the  road 
from  Mitsiwa  into  Eritrea  and  south  into  Tigray.  As  a  result,  food 
relief  vehicles  had  to  travel  overland  from  Port  Sudan,  the  major 
Red  Sea  port  of  Sudan,  through  guerrilla  territory  into  northern 
Ethiopia.  After  an  international  outcry  against  his  policy,  Mengistu 
reversed  his  decision,  but  international  relief  agencies  were  unable 
to  move  significant  amounts  of  food  aid  into  Eritrea  and  Tigray 
via  Ethiopian  ports.  By  1990  there  also  were  many  reports  that 
the  Ethiopian  air  force  had  bombed  relief  convoys  and  that  the 
Ethiopian  armed  forces  had  used  napalm  and  cluster  bombs  against 
separatists  in  Eritrea  and  Tigray.  The  EPLF,  too,  attacked  food 
convoys,  claiming  that  the  regime  was  using  them  to  ship  weapons 
to  its  troops. 

Due  process  of  law  and  legal  guarantees  prohibiting  abuse  of 
power  basically  did  not  exist  in  revolutionary  Ethiopia.  After  re- 
vision of  the  penal  code  and  the  criminal  procedures  code  in  1976, 
judicial  warrants  were  no  longer  required  for  house  searches  or  for 
the  arbitrary  off- the- street  arrests  that  became  the  norm  in  the  late 
1970s.  Specific  charges  were  not  necessarily  brought  against  de- 
tainees after  politically  motivated  arrests,  and  those  held  had  no 
right  to  counsel.  The  bulk  of  noncriminal  arrests  involved  suspects 
seized  at  the  discretion  of  authorities  on  charges  of  nonparticipa- 
tion  in  mandatory  political  activities,  curfew  violations,  and  par- 
ticipation in  unauthorized  meetings.  In  most  cases,  those  arrested 
or  summoned  to  association  tribunals  for  questioning  would  be 
released  after  a  scare  or  a  roughing  up,  but  many  would  disap- 
pear without  a  trace.  Whole  families — including  young  children — 
would  be  taken  into  custody  and  held  for  indefinite  periods  in  lieu 
of  a  missing  relative  who  was  a  suspect. 

In  Addis  Ababa,  special  security  force  squads,  assisted  by  kebele 
defense  squads,  would  arrest  political  suspects,  who  would  then 
be  taken  to  police  headquarters  for  interrogation  by  officials.  After 
questioning,  often  accompanied  by  torture,  the  authorities  would 
assign  suspects  to  a  prison  to  await  trial  or  hold  them  in  detention 


328 


National  Security 


camps  without  charges.  Under  these  circumstances,  many  detainees 
welcomed  sentencing,  even  if  it  was  for  a  long  period.  The  govern- 
ment confiscated  a  suspect's  possessions  after  arrest  and  required 
families  to  search  prisons  to  locate  their  relatives. 

According  to  a  variety  of  estimates,  there  were  6,000  to  10,000 
political  prisoners,  including  surviving  officials  of  the  former  im- 
perial regime,  in  Ethiopian  prisons  in  1976.  During  the  Red  Ter- 
ror, as  many  as  100,000  persons  may  have  passed  through  Ethiopian 
jails.  Appeals  by  Amnesty  International  in  support  of  approximately 
3,000  known  political  detainees  in  1978  had  no  effect,  and  most 
of  these  individuals  were  believed  to  have  been  killed  while  in  cus- 
tody. Other  sources  put  the  number  of  political  prisoners  at  8,000, 
of  whom  half  eventually  were  released. 

Categories  of  political  prisoners  still  held  in  1991  included  former 
government  officials;  prominent  civil  servants  and  businessmen; 
armed  forces  officers,  including  those  implicated  in  the  May  1989 
coup  attempt  against  Mengistu;  students  and  teachers;  members 
of  ethnic,  regional,  and  separatist  groups;  leaders  of  professional 
and  women's  groups  and  trade  unionists  who  resisted  government 
takeover  of  their  organizations;  churchmen;  suspected  members 
of  the  EPLF,  TPLF,  or  other  guerrilla  movements;  and  others  ar- 
rested on  various  pretexts  on  orders  from  the  government  or  from 
kebeles  or  peasant  associations.  Political  prisoners  generally  included 
a  large  number  of  young  persons  and  educated  professionals,  a  high 
proportion  of  them  Eritrean  or  Oromo. 

Censorship,  openly  imposed  under  the  old  regime,  became  even 
harsher  after  1974.  The  press,  radio,  and  television  were  controlled 
by  the  state  and  were  considered  instruments  of  government  pol- 
icy (see  Mass  Media,  ch.  4).  Independent  media  outlets,  such  as 
the  Lutheran  broadcasting  station  in  Addis  Ababa,  were  seized  by 
the  Mengistu  government.  Censorship  guidelines  for  the  press  were 
vague,  but  many  Ethiopian  journalists  were  imprisoned  for  less 
than  enthusiastic  cooperation  with  the  Mengistu  regime.  All  reports 
to  the  foreign  press  had  to  be  transmitted  through  the  Ethiopian 
News  Agency.  After  1975  government  authorities  expelled  many 
Western  journalists  for  "mischief  and  distortion"  in  their  report- 
ing. The  Mengistu  government  also  banned  songs,  books,  and  peri- 
odicals that  were  judged  to  be  contrary  to  the  spirit  of  the  revolution. 

Because  of  the  limited  access  to  Ethiopia  afforded  Western  ob- 
servers and  the  secrecy  surrounding  almost  all  of  the  Mengistu 
government's  activities,  accurate  and  consistent  information  and 


329 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

statistics  pertaining  to  the  Mengistu  regime  are  difficult  to  obtain. 
In  1991  there  still  were  no  definitive  studies  describing  in  suffi- 
cient detail  the  entire  scope  of  national  security  problems  in  con- 
temporary Ethiopia.  Those  interested  in  Ethiopian  national  security 
affairs  therefore  must  rely  on  a  variety  of  periodicals,  including 
Africa  Research  Bulletin,  Keesing's  Contemporary  Archives,  Third  World 
Reports,  and  Africa  Confidential.  The  International  Institute  for  Stra- 
tegic Studies'  annuals,  The  Military  Balance  and  Strategic  Survey,  also 
are  essential  for  anyone  who  wishes  to  understand  the  evolution 
of  Ethiopia's  security  forces.  The  same  is  true  of  the  annuals  Africa 
Contemporary  Record  and  World  Armaments  and  Disarmament,  the  lat- 
ter published  by  the  Stockholm  International  Peace  Research  In- 
stitute. 

Harold  G.  Marcus' 's  Ethiopia,  Great  Britain,  and  the  United  States , 
1941-1974  provides  an  excellent  analysis  of  the  historical  evolu- 
tion of  the  Ethiopian  armed  forces.  Other  useful  historical  sources 
include  Donald  N.  Levine's  "The  Military  in  Ethiopian  Politics"; 
Richard  A.  Caulk's  "The  Army  and  Society  in  Ethiopia";  and 
Yohannis  Abate's  "Civil-Military  Relations  in  Ethiopia."  Marina 
and  David  Ottaway's  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolution  also  is  essential 
for  an  understanding  of  the  military's  role  in  contemporary 
Ethiopia. 

Material  on  human  rights  practices  in  Ethiopia  can  be  found 
in  the  annual  Amnesty  International  Report  and  in  other  Amnesty  In- 
ternational publications,  such  as  Ethiopia:  Human  Rights  Violations, 
Ethiopia:  Political  Imprisonment  and  Torture,  and  Ethiopia:  Political  Im- 
prisonment. Although  dated  (1979),  Bekele  Mesfin's  "Prison  Con- 
ditions in  Ethiopia"  remains  a  valuable  first-hand  account  of  the 
life  of  a  political  prisoner  in  Mengistu 's  Ethiopia.  For  an  analysis 
of  the  human  costs  of  Mengistu's  resettlement  policy,  Jason  W. 
Clay  and  Bonnie  K.  Holcomb's  Politics  and  the  Ethiopian  Famine, 
1984-1985  is  fundamental.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


330 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  by  Urban-Rural  Breakdown  and  by  Region  and 

Addis  Ababa,  May  1988 

3  Area,  Population,  and  Population  Density  by  Region  and 

Addis  Ababa,  1975  and  1987 

4  Population  of  Largest  Cities  and  Towns,  1967,  1975,  and  1987 

5  Number  of  Schools  by  Grade  Level  and  by  Region  and  Addis 

Ababa,  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years  1974/75  and  1985/86 

6  Number  of  Students  by  Grade  Level  and  Sex,  Ethiopian 

Calendar  Years  1974/75  and  1985/86 

7  Number  of  Teachers  by  Grade  Level  and  by  Region  and  Addis 

Ababa,  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years  1974/75  and  1985/86 

8  Medical  Facilities  by  Region  and  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopian 

Calendar  Years  1975/76  and  1983/84 

9  Medical  Personnel  by  Region  and  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopian 

Calendar  Years  1974/75  and  1983/84 

10  Key  Economic  Indicators,  Ethiopian  Fiscal  Years  1974/75  to 

1988/89 

11  Average  Annual  Income,  Retail  Price  Index,  and  Real  In- 

come, Selected  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years,  1970/71  to 
1987/88 

12  Retail  Price  Index  for  Addis  Ababa,  Selected  Ethiopian  Calen- 

dar Years,  1970/71  to  1987/88 

13  Production  of  Major  Crops,  Selected  Ethiopian  Calendar 

Years,  1974/75  to  1988/89 

14  Value  of  Principal  Exports,  Selected  Ethiopian  Fiscal  Years, 

1974/75  to  1988/89 

15  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Ethiopian  Fiscal  Years,  1980/81 

to  1988/89 


331 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   1.8  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  and  add  32 


Table  2.  Population  by  Urban-Rural  Breakdown 
and  by  Region  and  Addis  Ababa,  May  1988 


Region  Urban  Rural  Total 


Arsi    127,547  1,733,059  1,860,606 

Bale    79,159  1,047,538  1,126,697 

Eritrea    440,875  2,497,238  2,938,113 

Gamo  Gofa   61,015  1,334,316  1,395,331 

Gojam                                        .  252,042  3,380,234  3,632,276 

Gonder    239,010  3,031,430  3,270,440 

Harerge    321,202  4,336,657  4,657,859 

Ilubabor    59,454  1,018,854  1,078,308 

Kefa    145,205  2,595,568  2,740,773 

Shewa   701,294  8,358,623  9,059,917 

Sidamo    267,093  3,974,734  4,241,827 

Tigray    261,890  2,439,031  2,700,921 

Welega    141,043  2,629,555  2,770,598 

Welo   264,697  3,811,262  4,075,959 

Aseb  Administration  *    36,348  65,004  101,352 

Addis  Ababa  *    1,654,327  n.a.  1,654,327 


TOTAL    5,052,201  42,253,103  47,305,304 


n.a. — not  applicable. 

*  In  1988  Aseb  and  Addis  Ababa  were  both  separate  administrative  divisions. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Census  Supple- 
ment, I,  Addis  Ababa,  1989,  Table  1-2. 


333 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  3.  Area,  Population,  and  Population  Density  by  Region 
and  Addis  Ababa,  1975  and  1987 


Population 


Area  (in 

Density  (persons 

thousands 

Popu 

ation 

per  square 

of  square 

(in  thousands) 

kilometer) 

Region 

kilometers) 

1975 

1987 

1975 

1987 

Arsi   

23.7 

1,337.8 

1,808.5 

56.4 

76.3 

Bale   

127.1 

810.7 

1,095.1 

6.4 

8.6 

Eritrea   

93.7 

2,107.9 

2,852.9 

22.5 

30.4 

Gamo  Gofa  

40.3 

1,005.3 

1,356.7 

24.9 

33.7 

61.2 

2,612.4 

3,530.5 

42.7 

57.7 

79.6 

2,350.1 

3,178.7 

29.5 

39.9 

272.6 

3,348.5 

4,527.4 

12.3 

16.6 

Ilubabor   

46.5 

775.6 

1,048.3 

16.7 

22.5 

Kefa   

56.6 

1,971.5 

2,664.6 

34.8 

47.1 

85.1 

6,512.0 

8,805.3 

76.5 

103.5 

119.7 

3,052.4 

4,123.3 

25.5 

34.4 

Tigray   

64.9 

1,938.9 

2,624.4 

29.9 

40.4 

70.5 

1,993.1 

2,693.6 

28.3 

38.2 

Welo  

82.1 

2,931.7 

3,962.0 

35.7 

48.3 

Aseb  Administration  1 

27.5 

73.8 

98.2 

2.7 

3.6 

Addis  Ababa  2   

0.2 

1,136.6 

1,589.2 

5,683.6  7,946.0 

ETHIOPIA   

1,251.3 

33,958.3 

45,958.7 

27.1 

36.7 

1  Aseb  Administration  was  carved  out  of  southern  Eritrea  and  made  into  a  separate  administrative  di- 
vision in  1981. 

2  Addis  Ababa  was  part  of  Shewa  in  1975  but  is  listed  separately  for  comparative  purposes.  By  1981 
Addis  Ababa  had  become  an  administrative  division  of  its  own. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Facts  and  Figures, 
Addis  Ababa,  1987,  Table  7-1,  22. 


334 


Appendix 


Table  4.  Population  of  Largest  Cities  and  Towns, 
1967,  1975,  and  1987 


City  or  Town  1967  1975  1987 


Addis  Ababa   644,190  1,136,600  1,589,176 

Asmera    178,537  221,801  309,807 

Dire  Dawa    50,733  76,639  107,150 

Harer    42,771  48,559  67,892 

Dese    40,619  56,849  79,458 

Gonder    36,309  64,562  90,220 

Jima    30,580  49,044  68,618 

Nazret   27,812  59,176  82,725 

Mekele    23,105  47,157  65,581 

Debre  Zeyit    22,055  39,675  55,461 

Debre  Markos   21,536  31,842  44,410 

Asela   13,886  29,637  41,313 

Nekemte    12,691  23,342  32,637 

Bahir  Dar    12,463  43,826  61,121 

Dila    11,287  18,898  26,392 

Aseb    10,945  25,000  39,917 

Akaki    10,924  42,002  58,717 

Sodo    10,842  19,414  27,116 

Debre  Birhan    9,188  19,978  27,929 

Agaro    8,995  15,090  21,107 

Shashemene    7,837  24,459  34,193 

Goba   7,304  18,515  25,835 

Awasa   5,575  27,517  39,827 

Metu   4,060  10,057  14,042 

Jijiga   4,031  18,111  25,320 

Arba  Minch    2,890  14,261  26,711 

Wonji    n.a.  n.a.  38,408 

Keren    n.a.  n.a.  29,416 


n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Ethiopia:  Statistical 
Abstract,  1967  and  1968,  Addis  Ababa,  1969,  30-36;  and  Ethiopia,  Central  Statisti- 
cal Authority,  Facts  and  Figures,  Addis  Ababa,  1987,  25-28. 


335 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  5.  Number  of  Schools  by  Grade  Level 
and  by  Region  and  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopian 
Calendar  Years  1974/75  and  1985/86  1 


1974/75 

VJl  aucs 

Cxr3.clcs 

v_xr3.QCS 

— —  

\_Tr3.QCS 

Grades 

— — — 

ivcffion 

1-6 

7-8 

9-12 

1-6 

7-8 

9-12 

1  ^ 

1  Q 

3 

JJJ 

1  A 

T5  „]„ 

fit 

o 
o 

1 
1 

3  i  n 

1  « 
1  o 

c 

3 

a  nn 

do 

1  A 

14 

3D 

1  o 

18 

77 

Q 

o 

o 
3 

393 
3  A3 

1  Q 

c 
J 

.  .  .  135 

14 

4 

676 

58 

17 

,  .  .  184 

21 

4 

578 

33 

18 

Harerge   

214 

47 

7 

659 

65 

13 

Ilubabor   

137 

14 

4 

405 

35 

10 

Kefa   

93 

11 

3 

499 

40 

9 

. . .  538 

100 

25 

1,443 

246 

50 

.  ,  .  148 

31 

6 

786 

56 

13 

Tigray   

. .  .  178 

19 

7 

82 

24 

11 

...  463 

28 

10 

723 

100 

15 

Welo  

. .  .  158 

23 

3 

649 

45 

15 

Aseb  Administration  2  .  .  . 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

12 

1 

1 

Addis  Ababa  3   

225 

98 

30 

197 

127 

31 

TOTAL   

,  , .  3,196 

507 

124 

7,900 

964 

245 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary. 

2  Aseb  Administration  was  carved  out  of  southern  Eritrea  and  made  into  a  separate  administrative  di- 
vision in  1981. 

3  Addis  Ababa  was  part  of  Shewa  in  1974/75  but  is  listed  separately  for  comparative  purposes.  By  1981 
Addis  Ababa  had  become  an  administrative  division  of  its  own. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Facts  and  Figures, 
Addis  Ababa,  1987,  Table  16-3,  107. 


Table  6.  Number  of  Students  by  Grade  Level 
and  Sex,  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years 
1974/75  and  1985/86  * 


 1974/75    1985/86  

Grade  Level  Male        Female         Total  Male  Female  Total 


Grades  1-6    651,893  305,408  957,301  1,491,015  957,763  2,448,778 

Grades  7-8    85,286  39,298  124,584  221,102  142,030  363,132 

Grades  9-12    47,439  16,774  64,213  178,699  113,686  292,385 

University   523  72  595  16,438  1,998  18,436 

TOTAL    785,141  361,552  1,146,693  1,907,254  1,215,477  3,122,731 


*  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Facts  and  Figures, 
Addis  Ababa,  1987,  Table  61-1,  105. 


336 


Appendix 


Table  7.  Number  of  Teachers  by  Grade  Level 
and  by  Region  and  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopian 
Calendar  Years  1974/75  and  1985/86  1 


1974/75 

1985/86 

Grades 

Grades 

Grades 

Grades 

Grades 

Grades 

Region 

1-6 

7-8 

9-12 

1-6 

7-8 

9-12 

Arsi 

874 

126 

66 

2,864 

373 

311 

Bale 

514 

53 

24 

2,050 

210 

191 

2  307 

480 

355 

2,471 

561 

604 

605 

64 

39 

2  155 

167 

197 

1,124 

167 

100 

3,415 

430 

413 

1,104 

148 

71 

2,919 

321 

367 

T-J  o  rprrrf 

1  384 

242 

153 

3  444 

41 1 

362 

739 

92 

32 

2^463 

207 

182 

Kefa   

678 

109 

55 

3,190 

172 

265 

Shewa   

3,094 

613 

357 

6,856 

1,309 

1,277 

Sidamo   

1,341 

238 

110 

5,234 

641 

578 

Tigray   

3,105 

175 

152 

1,879 

280 

302 

Welega   

1,709 

177 

148 

4,238 

526 

508 

Welo   

1,187 

172 

96 

3,542 

371 

487 

Aseb  Administration  2  .  . 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

128 

14 

22 

Addis  Ababa  3  

.  .  3,086 

852 

770 

4,074 

1,322 

1,837 

TOTAL   

22,851 

3,708 

2,528 

50,922 

7,315 

7,903 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary. 

2  Aseb  Administration  was  carved  out  of  southern  Eritrea  and  made  into  a  separate  administrative  division 
in  1981. 

3  Addis  Ababa  was  part  of  Shewa  in  1974/75  but  is  listed  separately  for  comparative  purposes.  By  1981 
Addis  Ababa  had  become  an  administrative  division  of  its  own. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Facts  and  Figures, 
Addis  Ababa,  1987,  Table  16-2,  108. 


337 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  8.  Medical  Facilities  by  Region 
and  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years 
1975/76  and  1983/84  1 


Region 

Hospitals 

Hospital  Beds  2 

Clinics 

Health  Centers 

1975/76 

1  QQQ  IQA 

1  Q7R/7A 

1 QQQ IQA 

1975/76 

1  QQQ  IQA 

1975/76 

1  QQQ  IQA 

Arsi 

o 

4 

1  O  1 
ill 

1  Id 
I/O 

yo 

A 

c 
0 

Bale   

1 

95 

140 

34 

79 

4 

5 

Eritrea  3 

17 

16 

2,324 

2,895 

121 

163 

3 

5 

Gamo  Gofa    .  .  . 

3 

3 

137 

151 

49 

75 

4 

7 

Gojam   

3 

3 

242 

285 

47 

104 

7 

8 

Gonder 

10 

3 

191 

438 

51 

112 

12 

13 

Harerge   

2 

10 

828 

887 

111 

150 

10 

13 

Ilubabor  

2 

2 

163 

140 

51 

79 

5 

7 

Kefa  

3 

3 

230 

226 

61 

102 

6 

9 

Shewa   

11 

10 

590 

882 

122 

265 

15 

18 

Sidamo   

5 

5 

419 

469 

89 

145 

8 

10 

Tigray   

4 

4 

298 

570 

64 

102 

9 

9 

4 

4 

297 

337 

78 

164 

7 

10 

Welo   

4 

5 

189 

454 

70 

144 

12 

14 

Addis  Ababa  4  . 

.  13 

14 

2,499 

3,257 

16 

129 

n.a. 

7 

TOTAL   

84 

8 

8,623 

11,307 

1,009 

1,909 

106 

141 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary.  Table  does  not  include  police  and  armed 
forces  facilities. 

2  Does  not  include  number  of  beds  in  three  hospitals. 

3  Includes  Aseb  Administration,  which  was  carved  out  of  southern  Eritrea  and  made  into  a  separate 
administrative  division  in  1981. 

4  Addis  Ababa  was  part  of  Shewa  in  1975/76  but  is  listed  separately  for  comparative  purposes.  By  1981 
Addis  Ababa  had  become  an  administrative  division  of  its  own. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Facts  and  Figures, 
Addis  Ababa,  1987,  Table  17-1,  110. 


338 


Appendix 


Table  9.  Medical  Personnel  by  Region  and  Addis  Ababa, 
Ethiopian  Calendar  Years 
1974/75  and  1983/84  1 


Phy 

sici3.ns 

N 

Health  Assistants 

Region 

1974/75 

1983/84 

1974/75 

1983/84 

1974/75 

1983/84 

Arsi 

5 

12 

24 

40 

149 

269 

Ba]e 

7 

13 

74 

6 

34 

158 

30 

50 

1  9Q 

199 

486 

654 

4 

4 

18 

46 

107 

200 

Gojam  

10 

15 

38 

81 

173 

337 

8 

30 

36 

87 

172 

367 

T— J  o  y~  f^r  it  f 

25 

38 

63 

109 

314 

470 

Ilubabor   

6 

8 

22 

34 

101 

190 

Kefa   

17 

15 

31 

81 

120 

341 

20 

35 

95 

196 

562 

985 

9 

23 

47 

112 

247 

522 

Tigray   

7 

13 

42 

65 

212 

286 

10 

20 

54 

101 

210 

495 

Welo   

5 

22 

31 

78 

193 

426 

Aseb  Administration  2  . 

.  22 

4 

44 

16 

111 

66 

165 

244 

523 

652 

1,083 

1,114 

TOTAL   

350 

546 

1,271 

1,903 

4,274 

6,880 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary.  Table  does  not  include  police  and  armed 
forces  personnel. 

2  Aseb  Administration  was  carved  out  of  southern  Eritrea  and  made  into  a  separate  administrative  division 
in  1981. 

3  Addis  Ababa  was  part  of  Shewa  in  1974/75  but  is  listed  separately  for  comparative  purposes.  By  1981 
Addis  Ababa  had  become  an  administrative  division  of  its  own. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Facts  and  Figures, 
Addis  Ababa,  1987,  Table  17-4,  114-15. 


339 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


r>  05 


04  Ph 


C    G  « 

c  §  £ 
O  <  Q 


cn  cm  ^  n  oi 

N  <£)  l£) 


m  ^)  id  co  m 
d  CO  d  d 


t-h  ^  cn  co  --I 
mi  en  ^>  in 


O  co  in  i-i  co 
cn  d  (N  in  cm 


O  (O  en 
tN  cn 


o  m  eo 
d  ^'  d 


-H  CO 

en  in  en 


CM  N  (£) 

in 


to  co  en  cn  cn 
«'  d  cm  en  d 


en  m  cn 
n  d  co 

CM  t— i  i—i 


co  o  m  ^ 
in  cn  d  --I  d 


*  co 
cm  en 


o  n  «  en  * 
d  ^  ^  i-l  cd 


t^.  t^. 
m  m  in 


I  in  io  in  co  2 

|  in  rN  cn  tN  Jj 

H  *  m  (O  n 

U  N  N  N  tN  <, 

g  cn  oi  cn  cn 


00  CT)  -S 

N  N  < 


m  r»  co  cn  cm  to 
cn  in  cn  cn  m 


i-l    tO    't1    ^   i-H  co 

to  m  d  cd  cn  in 


m  cm  t-i  cn  co  in 
*  cd  (O  co  in  d 


co  co  o  to  i— i  cn 
d  co  t->i  cd  co  in* 


to  to  cn  co  to  cm 
in  *  n  en  th  in 


to  cn  in  cn  cn 
or  t-h      cn  d 


cm  cn  to  o  cm 

en  1-h  in  cn  r-j-  o 

.S  '. 

Tj  

<u  

Q   & 

bo 

I  -i  cm  cn  *  m  g 

JZj  co  oo  oo  oo  oo  S 

1—1  o  i-H  cm  en  ^  i 

<u  co  co  oo  co  00  <h 
«  cn  cn  cn  cn  cn 

J3  ^  ^ 

Ph 


340 


Appendix 


■S  -i  -2 


U  <  Q 


*  ifHO  00 


CO  T-H 

C~>  cm  rs 


tm!  CT)  ai  CM 


w:  w:  ^    :  03  . 

CO  O  i-h  t-h    pj  o 


03  eg 
i-3  O 


eg  ^3 

.2  & 

03  3 

>  5 

41 

<  O 

s 

"2  £ 

<  8 

>  o3 
Q  « 

en  T3 

R  > 


.2  3 


CO  CTl  CM  Is  ih  n 

m  in  csi  t-h  cm  co 


.  3 
bo  .2 

.a  g 

03  o3 

(h  < 

a  .2 
<u  -a 

S  < 


(N  ^  CM  ts  a,  CO 
CT>         O  Csi  t-h  tJh 


Is  O  IO  Cfi  O  O 
<X>  CT^  CO  CM  CM  lO 

C  

o  

cS  

C  

bo  


C/2 
I 

> 

M  in      ts  co  ai 

<L>  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO 
^  C>  0~>  C7i  C>  C> 


8  1  § 


2  S  2 
I 

Oh    U  C 

O    3  5 

^  s  . 

o  I  O  o 

S  -S  Q 

0  TJ 


be 


>  S  1  .2  S 


t=  I 
Oh-I 


O 

&  ° 

S  c 
c  .2 


t    C    J!    U  .S 

Q  §  M  S3  «,  s  a 

O  O  <  0h  <  fin  W 


<3  ^ 

id  -s 
01 

.2  T3 


O  GO 

.2  c 
|U 

•a  & 

o  w 

T3    .  - 


341 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  11.  Average  Annual  Income,  Retail  Price  Index, 
and  Real  Income,  Selected  Ethiopian  Calendar 
Years,  1970/71  to  1987/88  1 


Retail  Price  Index 

Real  Income 

Average 

Percentage 

Percent  3.^c 

Annual 

Change  over 

Change  over 

Year 

Income  2 

Index  3 

Previous  Year 

Income 

Previous  Year 

1970/71   

  1,125 

143.7 

n.a. 

783 

n.a. 

1974/75   

  1,577 

170.1 

18.4 

927 

18.4 

1980/81   

  2,298 

375.2 

120.6 

612 

-34.0 

1981/82   

  2,352 

396.1 

5.6 

594 

-2.9 

1982/83   

  2,530 

394.5 

-0.4 

641 

7.9 

1983/84   

  2,540 

427.8 

8.4 

594 

-7.3 

1984/85   

  2,745 

509.4 

19.1 

537 

-9.3 

1985/86   

  2,793 

459.4 

-9.8 

608 

12.8 

1986/87   

  2,990 

448.3 

-2.4 

667 

8.8 

1987/88   

  3,107 

480.0 

7.1 

647 

-3.0 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary. 

2  Wages  and  salaries  of  industrial  workers;  in  birr  (for  value  of  the  birr — see  Glossary). 

3  1963  =  100. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Ethiopia:  Statistical 
Abstract,  Addis  Ababa,  various  issues;  and  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority, 
Annual  Survey  of  Manufacturing  Industries,  Addis  Ababa,  various  issues. 


Table  12.  Retail  Price  Index  for  Addis  Ababa, 
Selected  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years, 
1970/71  to  1987/88  1 


Year 

General 
Index  2 

Food 

Household 
Items 

Clothing 

Transportation 

1970/71   

  143.7 

155.4 

133.5 

141.3 

100.0 

1974/75   

  170.1 

175.1 

179.8 

190.6 

104.8 

1980/81   

  375.2 

441.2 

366.1 

281.3 

140.6 

1981/82   

  396.1 

467.6 

379.3 

279.3 

153.5 

1982/83   

  394.5 

470.7 

352.6 

273.5 

156.4 

1983/84   

  427.8 

522.8 

376.1 

272.8 

154.9 

1984/85   

  509.4 

654.7 

406.8 

268.2 

156.4 

1985/86   

  459.4 

553.1 

436.9 

273.2 

156.9 

1986/87   

  448.3 

521.3 

479.4 

271.4 

162.7 

1987/88   

  480.0 

562.4 

506.9 

275.1 

164.8 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year — see  Glossary 

2  1963  =  100. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Ethiopia:  Statistical 
Abstract,  Addis  Ababa,  various  issues. 


342 


Appendix 


Table  13.  Production  of  Major  Crops,  Selected  Ethiopian  Calendar  Years, 
1974/75  to  1988/89  1 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Crop 

1974/75 

1980/81 

1984/85 

1985/86 

1986/87 

1987/88 

1988/89 

Cereals 

Barley 

624.9 

1,075.2 

842.1 

913.9 

993.2 

995.3 

1,075.0 

Corn 

840.8 

948.2 

1,087.8 

1,037.0 

1,715.4 

1,819.5 

2,001.5 

Millet   

156.7 

204.4 

187.4 

189.9 

119.8 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Oats   

n.a. 

46.4 

27.4 

31.5 

36.4 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Sorghum  

630.5 

1,410.8 

507.2 

904.5 

963.2 

993.3 

1,112.6 

Teff  2 

847.9 

1,312.1 

912.2 

968.7 

1,033.2 

1,049.6 

1,182.0 

Wheat  

698.9 

613.2 

675.6 

774.4 

'775.3 

835.8 

'894.3 

Total  cereals  3  . 

3,799.7 

5,610.4 

4,239.8 

4,820.0 

5,636.4 

5,949.5 

6,544.5 

Pulses 

Broad  beans  .... 

282.1 

469.3 

265.9 

233.3 

293.5 

259.2 

n.a. 

Chick-peas   

93.4 

118.3 

92.3 

84.4 

72.2 

n.a. 

n.a. 

44.7 

147.7 

84.4 

69.3 

83.5 

n.a. 

n.a. 

32.8 

19.7 

26.9 

23.3 

33.3 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Lentils   

46.6 

59.9 

18.9 

25.9 

26.9 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Soybeans   

n.a. 

1.9 

0.5 

0.3 

0.6 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Vetch   

12.6 

31.3 

41.7 

30.9 

n.a. 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Total  pulses  3  . 

512.2 

848.0 

530.6 

467.4 

540.8 

562.9 

619.2 

Other 

Fenugreek  

n.a. 

2.5 

4.7 

0.1 

2.4 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Flaxseed   

18.9 

27.2 

33.9 

38.3 

31.1 

27.2 

n.a. 

Groundnuts 

(peanuts)  

n.a. 

n.a. 

0.2 

0.4 

0.6 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Niger  seed  (neug)  . 

26.6 

64.1 

61.8 

59.5 

45.5 

43.9 

n.a. 

Rapeseed   

n.a. 

1.5 

1.6 

2.0 

4.1 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Sesame   

n.a. 

6.5 

0.1 

0.2 

0.1 

0.4 

n.a. 

Sunflower  seed   .  . 

n.a. 

0.2 

1.3 

0.9 

0.6 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Total  other  3   .  . 

58.1 

102.1 

102.6 

101.4 

84.5 

87.3 

96.0 

Total  3   

4,370.0 

6,560.6 

4,873.0 

5,388.8 

6,261.7 

6,599.7 

7,259.7 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  calender  year — see  Glossary. 

2  For  definition  of  teff — see  Glossary. 

3  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical  Authority,  Area,  Produc- 
tion, and  Yield  of  Major  Crops:  Estimates,  Addis  Ababa,  various  issues. 


343 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14.  Value  of  Principal  Exports, 
Selected  Ethiopian  Fiscal  Years, 
1974/75  to  1988/89  1 
(in  millions  of  birr)  2 


Product 

1974/75 

1980/81 

1984/85 

1985/86 

1986/87 

1987/88 

1988/89  3 

117^ 

^94  3 

J  ATT.  J 

tOO.J 

fifi4-  ft 

DOT.  O 

9 

TJJ.  A 

^9^  A 

Oilseeds  

89.1 

28.4 

15.6 

7.9 

9.8 

22.0 

12.8 

73.5 

23.7 

16.9 

12.6 

8.5 

16.1 

17.0 

37  2 

92.7 

95.4 

1 19.5 

108.3 

133.0 

140  0 

16.9 

9.8 

19.7 

18.2 

15.6 

32.4 

30.0 

Meat,  canned  and 

9.9 

6.3 

3.9 

3.9 

5.4 

5.1 

5.4 

Fruits  and  vegetables  . 

9.8 

3.6 

5.9 

6.0 

12.8 

11.8 

15.6 

Raw  cotton   

8.0 

28.2 

1.8 

0.0 

1.6 

1.1 

1.0 

Petroleum  products   .  . 

7.4 

76.1 

67.3 

44.2 

27.3 

36.0 

30.6 

7.2 

8.8 

1.0 

2.0 

1.7 

1.1 

1.0 

6.8 

9.8 

9.3 

10.4 

12.6 

16.4 

16.5 

Other5   

62.0 

39.4 

40.2 

33.8 

66.9 

59.4 

106.8 

Reexports   

30.9 

0.4 

0.0 

0.5 

0.0 

0.0 

n.a. 

TOTAL   

.  476.2 

851.5 

743.3 

923.8 

794.8 

773.6 

902.1 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  fiscal  year — see  Glossary. 

2  For  value  of  the  birr — see  Glossary. 

3  Estimated. 

4  Primarily  molasses. 

5  Includes  26.7  million  birr  of  nonmonetary  gold  in  1979/80. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  Addis  Ababa,  various  pub- 
lications. 


344 


Appendix 


Table  15.  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Ethiopian 
Fiscal  Years,  1980/81  to  1988/89  1 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1980/81 

1984/85 

1985/86 

1986/87 

1987/88 

1988/89 

JJt.  1 

^48  Q 

616  1 

fi9Q  9 

735  0 

Imports  

770.5 

962.2 

1,192.0 

1,217.0 

1,259.0 

1,345.5 

-216.4 

-413.3 

-529.8 

-600.9 

-629.8 

-610.5 

_                    /  \ 

-7  1 

33  .  \J 

-9ft  ft 

AO .  O 

3  1  .\J 

_QA  O 

24.7 

144  9 

209.4 

162.5 

182.6 

195.6 

Official  transfers  (net)  2    .  .  .  . 

59.8 

298.3 

293.2 

211.8 

121.7 

132.0 

Current  account  balance  .  . 

-139.0 

-3.1 

-56.0 

-263.6 

-388.5 

-377.1 

Private  loans  (net)  3   

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

0.0 

Public  loans  (net)  3   

161.6 

162.3 

277.2 

181.3 

260.4 

280.7 

Short-term  capital  (net) 

-6.0 

42.3 

-12.8 

9.7 

9.7 

0.0 

Capital  account  balance    .  . 

16.6 

201.5 

208.4 

-72.6 

-118.4 

-96.4 

Errors  and  omissions   

108.9 

153.9 

43.3 

-52.7 

71.3 

-123.6 

Overall  balance   

125.5 

355.4 

251.7 

-125.3 

-47.1 

-220.0 

Change  in  net  reserves 

(-  means  increase)  

59.2 

-47.6 

-165.2 

19.9 

189.7 

-27.2 

1  For  explanation  of  the  Ethiopian  fiscal  year — see  Glossary. 

2  Excludes  technical  assistance  and  similar  transfers  recorded  in  government  budget. 

3  Includes  medium-  and  long-term  loans. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  Addis  Ababa,  various  pub- 
lications. 


345 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Abir,  Mordechai.  Ethiopia:  The  Era  of  the  Princes.  The  Challenge  of 
Islam  and  Re-unification  of  the  Christian  Empire,  1769-1855.  New 
York:  Praeger,  1968. 

 .  Ethiopia  and  the  Red  Sea.  London:  Frank  Cass,  1980. 

Akpan,  M.B.  "Ethiopia  and  Liberia,  1914-35:  Two  Independent 
African  States  in  the  Colonial  Era."  Pages  712-45  in  A.  Adu 
Boahen  (ed.),  General  History  of  Africa,  7:  Africa  under  Colonial  Domi- 
nation. Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1985. 

Alvarez,  Francisco.  The  Prester  John  of  the  Indies.  (Trans.,  C.F.  Beck- 
ingham  and  G.W.B.  Huntingford.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1961. 

Baer,  George  W.  The  Coming  of  the  Italian- Ethiopian  War.  Cambridge: 
Harvard  University  Press,  1967. 

Bahru  Zewde.  A  History  of  Modern  Ethiopia,  1855-1974.  Athens:  Ohio 
University  Press,  1991. 

Bates,  Darrell.  The  Abyssinian  Difficulty:  The  Emperor  Theodorus  and 
theMagdala  Campaign,  1867-68.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1979. 

Bender,  M.  Lionel  (ed.).  Peoples  and  Cultures  of  the  Ethio-Sudan  Border- 
lands. East  Lansing:  African  Studies  Center,  Michigan  State 
University,  1981. 

Brietzke,  Paul.  "Land  Reform  in  Revolutionary  Ethiopia, "  Jour- 
nal of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  14,  No.  4,  December  1976, 
637-60. 

Bruce,  James.  Travels  to  Discover  the  Source  of  the  Nile  in  the  Years  1 768, 
1769,  1770,  1771,  1772,  and  1773.  (5  vols.)  London:  G.G.J,  and 
J.  Robinson,  1790. 

Caraman,  Philip.  The  Lost  Empire:  The  Story  of  the  Jesuits  in  Ethio- 
pia, 1555-1634.  Notre  Dame,  Indiana:  University  of  Notre  Dame 
Press,  1985. 

Caulk,  Richard  A.  "Menelik  II  and  the  Diplomacy  of  Commerce: 
Prelude  to  an  Imperial  Foreign  Policy,  "Journal  of  Ethiopian  Studies 
[Addis  Ababa],  17,  1984,  62-87. 

Cerulli,  Enrico.  "Ethiopia's  Relations  with  the  Muslim  World." 
Pages  575-85  in  Ivan  Hrbek  (ed.),  General  History  of  Africa,  3: 
Africa  from  the  Seventh  to  the  Eleventh  Century.  Berkeley:  University 
of  California  Press,  1988. 

Chege,  Michael.  "The  Revolution  Betrayed:  Ethiopia,  1974-79," 
Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  17,  No.  3,  1979,  359-80. 


347 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Clapham,  Christopher  S.  Haile  Selassie's  Government.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1969. 

 .  Transformation  and  Continuity  in  Revolutionary  Ethiopia.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1988. 

 "The  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia, ' '  Journal  of  Communist 

Studies  [London],  1,  No.  1,  1985,  76-77. 

Clarke,  John.  Resettlement  and  Rehabilitation:  Ethiopia's  Campaign 
Against  Famine.  London:  Harney  and  Jones,  n.d. 

Cohen,  John  M.  "Ethiopia  after  Haile  Selassie:  The  Government 
Land  Factor,"  African  Affairs  [London],  72,  No.  289,  October 
1973,  365-82. 

Darkwah,  R.H.  Kofi.  Shewa,  Menelik,  and  the  Ethiopian  Empire, 

1813-1880.  London:  Heinemann,  1975. 
Donham,  Donald  L.  Work  and  Power  in  Maale,  Ethiopia.  Ames:  Iowa 

State  University  Press,  1985. 
Donham,  Donald  L.,  and  Wendy  James.  The  Southern  Marches  of 

Imperial  Ethiopia:  Essays  in  History  and  Social  Anthropology.  New 

York:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1986. 
Dow,  Thomas  E.,  Jr.,  and  Peter  Schwab.  "Imperial  Leadership 

in  Contemporary  Ethiopia,"  Geneve-Afrique  [Geneva],  12,  No.  1, 

1973,  53-62. 

Drysdale,  John.  The  Somali  Dispute.  New  York:  Praeger,  1964. 

Dugan,  James,  and  Laurence  Lafore.  Days  of  Emperor  and  Clown: 
The  Italo-Ethiopian  War,  1935-1936.  Garden  City,  New  York: 
Doubleday,  1973. 

Ehret,  Christopher.  "On  the  Antiquity  of  Agriculture  in  Ethio- 
pia," Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  20,  1979,  161-77. 

Ellingson,  Lloyd.  "The  Emergence  of  Political  Parties  in  Eritrea, 
1941-1950,"  Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  18,  No.  2, 
1977,  261-81. 

Erlich,  Haggai.  Ethiopia  and  the  Challenge  of  Independence.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Rienner,  1986. 

Ethiopia 's  Bitter  Medicine,  Settling  for  Disaster:  An  Evaluation  of  the  Ethio- 
pian Government's  Resettlement  Programme.  London:  Survival  Inter- 
national for  the  Rights  of  Threatened  Tribal  Peoples,  1986. 

Fage,  J.D. ,  and  Roland  Oliver  (eds.).  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa. 
(8  vols.)  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1975-86. 

Farer,  Tom  J.  War  Clouds  on  the  Horn  of  Africa:  The  Widening  Storm. 
New  York:  Carnegie  Endowment  for  International  Peace,  1979. 

FitzGibbon,  Louis.  The  Evaded  Duty.  London:  Rex  Collings,  1985. 

Gebru  Tareke.  Ethiopia:  Power  and  Protest.  Peasant  Revolts  in  the  Twen- 
tieth Century.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1991. 

Ghose,  Ajit  Kumar.  "Transforming  Feudal  Agriculture:  Agrar- 
ian Change  in  Ethiopia  since  197 A ,"  Journal  of  Development  Studies 
[London],  22,  No.  1,  October  1985,  127-49. 


348 


Bibliography 


Gilkes,  Patrick.  The  Dying  Lion:  Feudalism  and  Modernization  in  Ethio- 
pia. New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1975. 

Greenfield,  Richard.  Ethiopia:  A  New  Political  History.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1965. 

Haile  Selassie.  My  Life  and  Ethiopia's  Progress,  1892-1937.  (Trans, 
and  annotated  by  Edward  Ullendorff.)  Oxford:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1976. 

Harbeson,  John  W.  The  Ethiopian  Transformation:  The  Quest  for  the 
Post-Imperial  State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  Communist  Ethiopia:  Is  It  Succeeding?  Santa  Monica, 
California:  Rand,  1985. 

Hess,  Robert  L.  Ethiopia:  The  Modernization  of  Autocracy.  Ithaca:  Cor- 
nell University  Press,  1970. 

Hoben,  Allan.  Land  Tenure  among  the  Amhara  of  Ethiopia:  The  Dy- 
namics of  Cognatic  Descent.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press, 
1973. 

Huntingford,  G.  W.B.  The  Galla  of  Ethiopia:  The  Kingdoms  of  Kafa 
and  Janjero.  London:  International  African  Institute,  1955. 

Kaplan,  Steven.  The  Beta  Israel  (Falasha)  in  Ethiopia:  From  Earliest 
Times  to  the  Twentieth  Century.  New  York:  New  York  University 
Press,  1992. 

Keller,  Edmond  J.  Revolutionary  Ethiopia:  From  Empire  to  People's 
Republic.  Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1988. 

Kobishchanov,  Yuri  M.  Axum.  University  Park:  Pennsylvania  State 
University  Press,  1979. 

Lang,  Werner  J.  History  of  the  Southern  Gonga.  Wiesbaden:  Steiner, 
1982. 

Legum,  Colin.  "Realities  of  the  Ethiopian  Revolution,"  World 

Today  [London],  33,  No.  8,  August  1977,  305-12. 
Levine,  Donald  N.  Greater  Ethiopia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic 

Society.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 
 Wax  and  Gold:  Tradition  and  Innovation  in  Ethiopian  Culture. 

Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1965. 
Lewis,  Herbert  S.  A  Galla  Monarchy:  Jimma  Abba  Jifar,  Ethiopia, 

1830-1932.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1965. 
Lipsky,  G.A.  Ethiopia:  Its  People,  Its  Society,  Its  Culture.  New  Haven: 

Human  Relations  Area  Files,  1962. 
Lockot,  Hans  Wilhelm.  The  Mission:  The  Life,  Reign,  and  Character 

of  Haile  Selassie  I.  London:  Hurst,  1989. 
McCann,  James.  From  Poverty  to  Famine  in  Northeast  Ethiopia:  A  Rural 

History,  1900-1935.  Philadelphia:  University  of  Pennsylvania 

Press,  1987. 

 The  Political  Economy  of  Rural  Rebellion  in  Ethiopia:  Northern 

Resistance  to  Imperial  Expansion,  1928-1935.  Boston:  African 
Studies  Center,  Boston  University,  1984. 


349 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

McClellan,  Charles  W.  State  Transformation  and  National  Integration: 
Gedeo  and  the  Ethiopian  Empire,  1895-1935.  East  Lansing:  Afri- 
can Studies  Center,  Michigan  State  University,  1988. 

Marcus,  Harold  G.  Ethiopia,  Great  Britain,  and  the  United  States, 
1941-1974:  The  Politics  of  Empire.  Berkeley:  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1983. 

 .  Haile  Selassie  I:  The  Formative  Years,  1892-1936.  Berkeley: 

University  of  California  Press,  1987. 
 .  The  Life  and  Times  of  Menelik  II.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press, 

1974. 

Markakis,  John.  Ethiopia:  Anatomy  of  a  Traditional  Polity.  New  York: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1974. 

 National  and  Class  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 

Markakis,  John,  and  Nega  Ayele.  Class  and  Revolution  in  Ethiopia. 
Nottingham,  United  Kingdom:  Spokesman  Books,  1978. 

Mathew,  David.  Ethiopia:  The  Study  of  a  Polity,  1540-1935.  Lon- 
don: Eyre  and  Spottiswoode,  1947. 

Mesfin  Wolde-Mariam.  "The  Ethio-Somalian  Boundary  Dispute," 
Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  2,  No.  2,  July  1964, 
189-219. 

Mockler,  Anthony.  Haile  Selassie's  War:  The  Italian- Ethiopian  Cam- 
paign, 1935-1941.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1984. 

Mohammed  Hassen.  The  Oromo  of  Ethiopia:  A  History,  1570-1850. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1990. 

Mulatu  Wubneh  and  Yohannis  Abate.  Ethiopia:  Transition  and  Devel- 
opment in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Munro-Hay,  Stuart.  Aksum:  An  African  Civilisation  of  Late  Antiquity. 
Edinburgh:  Edinburgh  University  Press,  1991. 

Ottaway,  Marina.  "Democracy  and  New  Democracy:  The  Ideo- 
logical Debate  in  the  Ethiopian  Revolution,"  African  Studies 
Review,  21,  No.  1,  April  1978,  19-31. 

 "Social  Classes  and  Corporate  Interests  in  the  Ethiopian 

Revolution, "  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  14,  No.  3, 
September  1976,  469-86. 

 .  Soviet  and  American  Influence  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  New  York: 

Praeger,  1982. 

Ottaway,  Marina  (ed.).  The  Political  Economy  of  Ethiopia.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1990. 

Ottaway,  Marina,  and  David  Ottaway.  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolu- 
tion. New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Pankhurst,  Richard  K.  Economic  History  of  Ethiopia,  1800-1935. 
Addis  Ababa:  Haile  Selassie  I  University  Press,  1968. 

 .  History  of  Ethiopian  Towns:  From  the  Mid- Nineteenth  Century 

to  1935.  Wiesbaden:  Steiner,  1985. 


350 


Bibliography 

 .    The  History  of  Famine  and  Epidemics  in  Ethiopia  prior  to  the 

Twentieth  Century.  Addis  Ababa:  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Com- 
mission, 1986. 

 .  A  Social  History  of  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  Institute  of  Ethio- 
pian Studies,  1990. 

Pankhurst,  Richard  K.,  and  L.V.  Cassanelli.  "Ethiopia  and 
Somalia."  Pages  376-411  inJ.F.  Ade  Ajayi  (ed.),  General  His- 
tory of  Africa,  6:  Africa  in  the  Nineteenth  Century  until  the  1880s. 
Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1989. 

Perham,  Margery  F.  The  Government  of  Ethiopia.  Evanston:  North- 
western University  Press,  1969. 

Prouty,  Chris.  Empress  Taytu  and  Menelik  II:  Ethiopia,  1883-1910. 
Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1986. 

Prouty,  Chris,  and  Eugene  Rosenfeld.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Ethio- 
pia. Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow  Press,  1981. 

Quirin,  James  Arthur.  The  Evolution  of  the  Ethiopian  Jews:  A  History 
of  the  Beta  Israel  (Falasha)  to  1920.  Philadelphia:  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania Press,  1992 

Ram,  K.V.  The  Barren  Relationship:  Britain  and  Ethiopia,  1805-1868. 
New  Delhi:  Concept,  1985. 

Rubenson,  Sven.  "Ethiopia  and  the  Horn."  Pages  51-98  in  John 
E.  Flint  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  5:  From  ca.  1790 
to  ca.  1870.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1976. 

 King  of  Kings:  Tewodros  of  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  Haile 

Selassie  I  University,  1966. 

Sbacchi,  Alberto.  Ethiopia  under  Mussolini:  Fascism  and  the  Colonial 
Experience.  London:  Zed  Press,  1985. 

Schwab,  Peter.  Ethiopia:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Rienner,  1985. 

Serge w  Habte  Selassie.  Ancient  and  Medieval  Ethiopian  History  to  1270. 
Addis  Ababa:  United  Printers,  1972. 

Shehim,  K.  "Ethiopia,  Revolution,  and  the  Question  of  Nation- 
alities: The  Case  of  the  Afar ,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 
[London],  23,  No.  2,  1985,  331-48. 

Shinnie,  Peter  L.  "The  Nilotic  Sudan  and  Ethiopia."  Pages  210-71 
in  J.D.  Fage  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  2:  From  ca. 
500  B.C.  to  ca.  A.D.  1050.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1978. 

Spencer,  John  H.  Ethiopia  at  Bay:  A  Personal  Account  of  the  Haile  Sel- 

lassie  Years.  Algonac,  Michigan:  Reference  Publications,  1984. 
Taddesse  Tamrat.  Church  and  State  in  Ethiopia,  1270-1527.  Oxford: 

Clarendon  Press,  1972. 
 "Ethiopia,  the  Red  Sea,  and  the  Horn."  Pages  98-182  in 

Roland  Oliver  (ed.),  The  Cambridge  History  of  Africa,  3:  From  ca. 

1050  to  ca.  1600.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1977. 


351 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Tekeste  Negash.  Italian  Colonialism  in  Eritrea,  1882-1941:  Policies, 
Praxis,  and  Impact.  Stockholm:  Almqvist  and  Wiksell  Interna- 
tional, 1987. 

Thesiger,  Wilfred.  The  Life  of  My  Choice.  New  York:  Norton,  1987. 

Trimingham,  John  Spencer.  Islam  in  Ethiopia.  London:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1952. 

Tubiana,  Joseph  (ed.).  Modern  Ethiopia  from  the  Accession  of  Menelik 
II  to  the  Present.  Rotterdam:  Balkema,  1980. 

Ullendorff,  Edward.  Ethiopia  and  the  Bible.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1968. 

 .  The  Ethiopians:  An  Introduction  to  Country  and  People.  (3d  ed.) 

London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1973. 

Zewde  Gabre-Sellassie.  Yohannes  IV  of  Ethiopia:  A  Political  Biogra- 
phy. London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1975. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Contemporary  Record;  Africa 
Research  Bulletin  (Political,  Social,  and  Cultural  Series)  [Exeter, 
United  Kingdom];  Annates  dEthiopie  [Paris];  Ethiopia  Observer  [Lon- 
don and  Addis  Ababa] ;  Journal  of  Ethiopian  Studies  [Addis  Ababa]; 
and  Northeast  African  Studies,  formerly  Ethiopianist  Notes.) 


Chapter  2 

Almagor,  Uri.  Pastoral  Partners:  Affinity  and  Bond  Partnership  among 
the  Das  sanetch  of  South- West  Ethiopia.  New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Ambaye  Zekarias.  Land  Tenure  in  Eritrea  (Ethiopia).  Addis  Ababa: 
n.  pub.,  1966. 

Bauer,  Dan  Franz.  "For  Want  of  an  Ox  .  .  .  :  Land,  Capital,  and 
Social  Stratification  in  Tigre."  Pages  235-48  in  Harold  G. 
Marcus  and  John  Hinnant  (eds.),  Proceedings  of  the  First  United 
States  Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies,  1973.  East  Lansing:  African 
Studies  Center,  Michigan  State  University,  1975. 

 Household  and  Society  in  Ethiopia.  (Committee  on  Ethiopian 

Studies,  Occasional  Papers  Series,  Monograph  No.  6.)  East 
Lansing:  African  Studies  Center,  Michigan  State  University, 
1977. 

 "Politics  and  Social  Change  in  Tigre."  Pages  201-13  in 

W.  Arens  (ed.),  A  Century  of  Change  in  East  Africa.  The  Hague: 
Mouton,  1976. 

Baxter,  P.T.W.  "Atete  in  a  Highland  Arssi  Neighborhood,"  North- 
east African  Studies,  1,  No.  2,  1979,  1-22. 


352 


Bibliography 

 .  "Boran  Age-Sets:  Gada,  a  Puzzle  or  a  Maze."  Pages 

151-82  in  P.T.W.  Baxter  and  Uri  Almagor  (eds.),  Age,  Genera- 
tion, and  Time:  Some  Features  of  East  African  Age  Organizations.  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1978. 

 .  "Ethiopia's  Unacknowledged  Problem:  The  Oromo," 

African  Affairs  [London],  77,  July  1978,  283-96. 

Bekure  W.  Semait.  "Ecological  Stress  and  Political  Conflict  in 
Africa:  The  Case  of  Ethiopia."  Pages  37-50  in  Anders  Hjort 
af  Ornas  and  M.A.  Mohamed  Salih  (eds.),  Ecology  and  Politics: 
Environmental  Stress  and  Security  in  Africa.  Uppsala:  Scandinavian 
Institute  of  African  Studies,  1989. 

Bender,  M.  Lionel.  "The  Eastern  Edge  of  the  Sahel:  Ethiopian 
Nilo-Sahelians. "  Pages  15-23  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.),  Proceed- 
ings of  the  Fifth  International  Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago: 
University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Bender,  M.  Lionel  (ed.).  The  Non-Semitic  Languages  of  Ethiopia. 
(Committee  on  Ethiopian  Studies,  Occasional  Papers  Series, 
Monograph  No.  5.)  East  Lansing:  African  Studies  Center, 
Michigan  State  University,  1976. 

Bender,  M.  Lionel,  J.  Donald  Bowen,  Robert  L.  Cooper,  and 
Charles  A.  Ferguson  (eds.),  Language  in  Ethiopia.  London:  Ox- 
ford University  Press,  1976. 

Black,  Paul.  "Linguistic  Evidence  on  the  Origins  of  the  Konsoid 
Peoples."  Pages  291-302  in  Harold  G.  Marcus  and  John  Hin- 
nant  (eds.),  Proceedings  of  the  First  United  States  Conference  on  Ethio- 
pian Studies,  1973.  East  Lansing:  African  Studies  Center, 
Michigan  State  University,  1975. 

Blackhurst,  Hector.  "Continuity  and  Change  in  the  Shoa  Galla 
Gada  System."  Pages  245-67  in  P.T.W.  Baxter  and  Uri  Almagor 
(eds.),  Age,  Generation,  and  Time:  Some  Features  of  East  African  Age 
Organizations.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1978. 

 .  "Ethnicity  in  Southern  Ethiopia:  The  General  and  the  Par- 
ticular," Africa  [London],  50,  No.  1,  1980,  55-65. 

Brietzke,  Paul.  Law,  Development,  and  the  Ethiopian  Revolution.  Lewis- 
burg,  Pennsylvania:  Bucknell  University  Press,  1988. 

Burley,  Dexter.  "The  Despised  Weavers  of  Addis  Ababa."  Pages 
145-49  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  Interna- 
tional Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago:  University  of  Illinois 
at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Carr,  Claudia  J.  Pastoralism  in  Crisis:  The  Desanetch  and  Their  Ethio- 
pian Lands.  (Research  Paper  No.  180.)  Chicago:  Department  of 
Geography,  University  of  Chicago,  1977. 

Caulk,  Richard  A.  "The  Army  and  Society  in  Ethiopia,"  Ethiopi- 
anist  Notes,  1,  No.  3,  Spring  1978,  17-24. 


353 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Clarke,  John.  Resettlement  and  Rehabilitation:  Ethiopia's  Campaign 
Against  Famine.  London:  Speediprinters,  1986. 

Clay,  Jason  W. ,  and  Bonnie  K.  Holcomb.  Politics  and  the  Ethiopian 
Famine,  1984-1985.  Cambridge:  Cultural  Survival,  1986. 

Clay,  Jason  W.,  Sandra  Steingraber,  and  Peter  Niggli.  The  Spoils 
of  Famine:  Ethiopian  Famine  Policy  and  Peasant  Agriculture.  Cam- 
bridge: Cultural  Survival,  1988. 

Cohen,  John  M.  Integrated  Rural  Development:  The  Ethiopian  Experience 
and  the  Debate.  Uppsala:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African  Studies, 
1987. 

Cohen,  John  M.,  and  Peter  H.  Koehn.  Ethiopian  Provincial  and 
Municipal  Government:  Imperial  Patterns  and  Postrevolutionary  Changes. 
(Committee  on  Northeast  African  Studies,  Ethiopian  Series, 
Monograph  No.  9.)  East  Lansing:  African  Studies  Center, 
Michigan  State  University,  1980. 

Cohen,  John  M. ,  and  Dov  Weintraub.  Land  and  Peasants  in  Imper- 
ial Ethiopia:  The  Social  Background  to  a  Revolution.  Assen,  Nether- 
lands: Van  Gorcum,  1975. 

Connell,  Dan.  "Eritrea:  The  Politics  of  Refugees,"  Horn  oj  Africa, 
2,  No.  4,  October-December  1979,  4-7. 

Desta  Asayehegn.  Socio- Economic  and  Educational  Reforms  in  Ethio- 
pia, 1942-1974:  Correspondence  and  Contradiction.  Paris:  Interna- 
tional Institute  for  Educational  Planning,  United  Nations 
Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization,  1979. 

Ellis,  Gene.  "The  Feudal  Paradigm  as  a  Hindrance  to  Understand- 
ing Ethiopia,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  14, 
No.  2,  June  1976,  275-95. 

Eritrea  and  Tigray.  London:  Minority  Rights  Group,  1983. 

Erlich,  Haggai.  "Ethiopia  and  Islam  in  Postrevolution  Perspec- 
tive," Ethiopianist  Notes,  1,  No.  1,  Spring  1977,  9-16. 

Ethiopia.  Central  Statistical  Authority.  Census  Supplement,  I.  Addis 
Ababa:  1989. 

 Central  Statistical  Authority.  Ethiopia:  Statistical  Abstract, 

1967  and  1968.  Addis  Ababa:  1969. 
 .  Central  Statistical  Authority.  Facts  and  Figures.  Addis 

Ababa:  1987. 

 .  Ministry  of  Education.  New  Educational  Objectives  and  Direc- 
tions for  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  1980. 

 .  Ministry  of  Education.  Ten-Year  Perspective  Plan  of  General 

Education,  1984/85-1993/94.  Addis  Ababa:  1980. 

 Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission.  The  Challenges  of 

Drought:  Ethiopia  }s  Decade  of  Struggle  in  Relief  and  Rehabilitation.  Addis 
Ababa:  1985. 


354 


Bibliography 


 .  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission.  Guidelines  for  Re- 
settlement. Addis  Ababa:  1983. 

 .  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission.  The  New  Approach. 

Addis  Ababa:  1984. 

 Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission.  Review  of  Drought 

Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Activities  for  the  Period  of  December  1984-August 
1985,  and  1986  Assistance  Requirements.  Addis  Ababa:  1985. 

 Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission.  Review  of  the  Cur- 
rent Drought  Situation  in  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  1984. 

Ethiopia:  The  Politics  of  Famine.  New  York:  Freedom  House,  1990. 

Fassil  R.  Kiros.  Implementing  Educational  Policies  in  Ethiopia.  Washing- 
ton: World  Bank,  1990. 

Fleming,  Harold  C.  "Sociology,  Ethnology,  and  History  in  Ethio- 
pia." (Review  of  D.N.  Levine's  Greater  Ethiopia:  The  Revolution 
of  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society.)  International  Journal  of  African  Historical 
Studies,  9,  No.  2,  1976,  248-78. 

Fleming,  Harold  C,  and  M.  Lionel  Bender.  "Non-Semitic  Lan- 
guages." Pages  34-62  in  M.  Lionel  Bender,  J.  Donald  Bowen, 
Robert  L.  Cooper,  and  Charles  A.  Ferguson  (eds.),  Language 
in  Ethiopia.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1976. 

For  Their  Own  Good:  Ethiopia's  Villagisation  Programme.  London:  Sur- 
vival International,  1988. 

Gaim  Kibreab.  Refugees  and  Development  in  Africa:  The  Case  of  Eritrea. 
Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1987. 

Gamst,  Frederick  C.  The  Qemant:  A  Pagan-Hebraic  Peasantry  of  Ethio- 
pia. New  York:  Holt-Rinehart- Winston,  1969. 

 .  "Wayto  Ways:  Change  from  Hunting  to  Peasant  Life." 

Pages  233-38  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  In- 
ternational Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago:  University  of 
Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Getachew  Woldemeskel.  "The  Consequences  of  Resettlement  in 
Ethiopia,"  African  Affairs  [London],  88,  No.  352,  July  1989, 
359-74. 

Greenfield,  Richard.  "An  Historical  Introduction  to  Refugee 
Problems  in  the  Horn,"  Horn  of  Africa,  2,  No.  4,  October- 
December  1979,  14-26. 

Hallpike,  C.R.  The  Konso  of  Ethiopia:  A  Study  of  the  Values  of  a  Cushitic 
People.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1972. 

 .  "The  Origins  of  the  Borana  Gada  Systems,"  Africa  [Lon- 
don], 46,  No.  1,  1976,  48-56. 

Halperin,  R.,  and  J.  Olmstead.  "To  Catch  a  Feastgiver:  Redis- 
tribution among  the  Dorze  of  Ethiopia,"  Africa  [London],  46, 
No.  2,  1976,  146-65. 


355 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Hamer,  John.  "Dispute  Settlement  and  Sanctity:  An  Ethiopian 
Example,"  Anthropological  Quarterly,  45,  No.  4,  1972,  232-47. 

 "Myth,  Ritual,  and  the  Authority  of  the  Elders  in  an 

Ethiopian  Society,"  Africa  [London],  46,  No.  4,  1976,  327-39. 

 "Sidamo  Generational  Class  Cycles:  A  Political  Geron- 
tocracy," Africa  [London],  40,  No.  1,  1970,  50-70. 

Hance,  William  A.  The  Geography  of  Modern  Africa.  New  York: 
Columbia  University  Press,  1975. 

Harbeson,  John  W.  "Afar  Pastoralists  and  Ethiopian  Rural  De- 
velopment," Rural  Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975,  1-5. 

Harris,  Myles  F.  Breakfast  in  Hell.  New  York:  Poseidon  Press,  1987. 

Hetzron,  Robert,  and  M.  Lionel  Bender.  "The  Ethio-Semitic  Lan- 
guages." Pages  23-33  in  M.  Lionel  Bender,  J.  Donald  Bowen, 
Robert  L.  Cooper,  and  Charles  A.  Ferguson  (eds.),  Language 
in  Ethiopia.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1976. 

Hinnant,  John.  "The  Guji:  Gada  as  a  Ritual  System."  Pages 
207-43  in  P.T.W.  Baxter  and  Uri  Almagor  (eds.),  Age,  Genera- 
tion, and  Time:  Some  Features  of  East  African  Age  Organizations.  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1978. 

Hoben,  Allan.  Land  Tenure  among  the  Amhara  of  Ethiopia:  The  Dy- 
namics of  Cognatic  Descent.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press, 
1973. 

 .  "Perspectives  on  Land  Reform  in  Ethiopia:  The  Politi- 
cal Role  of  the  Peasantry,"  Rural  Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975, 
55-69. 

 .  "Social  Stratification  in  Traditional  Amhara  Society." 

Pages  187-224  in  Arthur  Tuden  and  Leonard  Plotnicov  (eds.), 

Social  Stratification  in  Africa.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1970. 
Hultin,  J.  "Social  Structure,  Ideology,  and  Expansion:  The  Case 

of  the  Oromo  of  Ethiopia,"  Ethnos  [Stockholm],  1,  No.  4,  1975, 

273-84. 

Karadawi,  Ahmed.  "The  Smuggling  of  the  Ethiopian  Falasha  to 
Israel  Through  Sudan,"  African  Affairs  [London],  90,  No.  358, 
January  1991,  23-49. 

Kessler,  David.  The  Falashas:  The  Forgotten  Jews  of  Ethiopia.  New 
York:  Africana,  1982. 

Kessler,  David,  and  Tudor  Parfitt.  The  Falashas:  The  Jews  of  Ethio- 
pia. London:  Minority  Rights  Group,  1985. 

Knutsson,  Karl  Eric.  Authority  and  Change:  A  Study  of  the  Kallu  Insti- 
tution among  the  Macha  Galla  of  Ethiopia.  (Ethnologiska  Studier, 
No.  29.)  Gothenburg,  Sweden:  Etnografiska  Museet,  1967. 

 .  "Dichotomization  and  Integration:  Aspects  of  Interethnic 

Relations  in  Southern  Ethiopia."  Pages  86-100  in  Fredrik  Barth 
(ed.),  Ethnic  Groups  and  Boundaries.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1969. 


356 


Bibliography 


Levine,  Donald  N.  Greater  Ethiopia:  The  Evolution  of  a  Multi-Ethnic 
Society.  Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1974. 

 Wax  and  Gold:  Tradition  and  Innovation  in  Ethiopian  Culture. 

Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1965. 

Lewis,  Herbert  S.  A  Galla  Monarchy:  Jimma  Abba  Jifar,  Ethiopia, 
1830-1932.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1965. 

 "Wealth,  Influence,  and  Prestige  among  the  Shoa  Galla." 

Pages  163-85  in  Arthur  Tuden  and  Leonard  Plotnicov  (eds.), 
Social  Stratification  in  Africa.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1970. 

Lewis,  I.M.  Peoples  of  the  Horn  of  Africa:  Somali,  Afar,  andSaho.  (Ethno- 
graphic Survey  of  Africa:  North  Eastern  Africa,  Pt.  1 .)  London: 
International  African  Institute,  1955. 

Markakis,  John.  Ethiopia:  Anatomy  of  a  Traditional  Polity.  New  York: 
Oxford  University  Press,  1974. 

Markakis,  John,  and  Nega  Ayele.  Class  and  Revolution  in  Ethiopia. 
Nottingham,  United  Kingdom:  Spokesman  Books,  1978. 

Mekuria  Bulcha.  Flight  and  Integration:  Causes  of  Mass  Exodus  from 
Ethiopia  and  Problems  of  Integration  in  the  Sudan.  Uppsala:  Scan- 
dinavian Institute  of  African  Studies,  1988. 

Mesfin  Wolde-Mariam.  An  Atlas  of  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  n.  pub., 
1970. 

 .  An  Introductory  Geography  of  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  Haile 

Selassie  I  University,  1972. 

 Rural  Vulnerability  to  Famine  in  Ethiopia,  1958-1977.  Addis 

Ababa:  Vikas  and  Addis  Ababa  University  Press,  1984. 

Messing,  S.D.  "Traditional  Healing  and  the  New  Health  Centers," 
Conch,  8,  Nos.  1-2,  1976,  52-64. 

Mulatu  Wubneh  and  Yohannis  Abate.  Ethiopia:  Transition  and  De- 
velopment in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1988. 

Ottaway,  Marina.  "Land  Reform  and  Peasant  Associations:  A 
Preliminary  Analysis,"  Rural Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975,  39-54. 

 "Social  Classes  and  Corporate  Interests  in  the  Ethiopian 

Revolution, ' '  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London]  ,14,  No.  3 , 
September  1976,  469-86. 

Ottaway,  Marina,  and  David  Ottaway.  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolu- 
tion. New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Pankhurst,  Richard  K.  An  Introduction  to  the  Medical  History  of  Ethiopia. 
Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1990. 

Parfitt,  Tudor.  Operation  Moses:  The  Untold  Story  of  the  Exodus  of  the 
Falasha  Jews  from  Ethiopia.  London:  Weidenfeld  and  Nicholson, 
1985. 

"Plight  of  Refugees  in  the  Horn,"  Horn  of  Africa,  2,  No.  4, 
October-December  1979,  3. 


357 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Rapoport,  Louis.  The  Lost  Jews:  The  Last  of  the  Ethiopian  Falashas. 
New  York:  Stein  and  Day,  1980. 

Ruiz,  Hiram  A.  Beyond  the  Headlines:  Refugees  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
Washington:  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees,  1988. 

 Detained  in  Exile:  Ethiopians  in  Somalia's  Shelembod  Camp. 

Washington:  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees,  1987. 

Salole,  Gerry.  "Who're  the  Shoans?"  Horn  of  Africa,  2,  No.  3, 
July-September  1979,  20-29. 

Shack,  William  A.  The  Central  Ethiopians:  Amhara,  Tigrina,  and  Related 
Peoples.  (Ethnographic  Survey  of  Africa  Series.)  London:  Inter- 
national African  Institute,  1974. 

 .  "Guilt  and  Innocence:  Oathing,  Evidence,  and  the  Judi- 
cial Process  among  the  Gurage,"  Journal  of  African  Studies,  3, 
No.  3,  Fall  1976,  297-309. 

 .  The  Gurage:  A  People  of  the  Ensete  Culture.  London:  Oxford 

University  Press,  1966. 

 "Notes  on  Voluntary  Associations  and  Urbanization  in 

Africa  with  Special  Reference  to  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopia,"  Afri- 
can Urban  Notes  (Series  B.),  No.  1,  Winter  1974-75,  5-10. 

 "Occupational  Prestige,  Status,  and  Social  Change  in 

Modern  Ethiopia,"  Africa  [London],  46,  No.  2,  1976,  166-81. 

 "Politics  of  the  Free  Spirit:  The  Sacred  and  the  Secular 

in  the  Gurage  Polity."  Pages  169-89  in  William  A.  Shack  and 
Percy  S.  Cohens  (eds.),  Politics  in  Leadership:  A  Comparative  Per- 
spective. Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1979. 

Shepherd,  Jack.  The  Politics  of  Starvation.  New  York:  Carnegie  En- 
dowment for  International  Peace,  1975. 

Stahl,  Michael.  "Environmental  Degradation  and  Political  Con- 
straints in  Ethiopia."  Pages  181-96  in  Anders  Hjort  af  Ornas 
and  M.A.  Mohamed  Salih  (eds.),  Ecology  and  Politics:  Environ- 
mental Stress  and  Security  in  Africa.  Uppsala:  Scandinavian  Insti- 
tute of  African  Studies,  1989. 

Stauder,  Jack.  The  Majangir:  Ecology  and  Society  of  a  Southwest  Ethio- 
pian People.  London:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1971. 

Stommes,  Eileen,  and  Seleshi  Sisaye.  "The  Development  and  Dis- 
tribution of  Health  Care  Services  in  Ethiopia:  A  Preliminary 
Review,"  Canadian  Journal  of  African  Studies  [Ottawa],  13,  No.  3, 
1980,  487-95. 

Super,  Susan.  "Earth,  Water,  and  Air:  Casualties  of  Develop- 
ment?" Agenda,  3,  No.  4,  May  1980,  2-9. 

Taddesse  Tamrat.  Church  and  State  in  Ethiopia,  1270-1527.  Oxford: 
Clarendon  Press,  1972. 

Teshome  G.  Wagaw.  The  Development  of  Higher  Education  and  Social 
Change:  An  Ethiopian  Experience.  East  Lansing:  Michigan  State 
University  Press,  1990. 


358 


Bibliography 


 .  Education  in  Ethiopia:  Prospect  and  Retrospect.  Ann  Arbor: 

University  of  Michigan  Press,  1979. 
Trimingham,  John  Spencer.  Islam  in  Ethiopia.  London:  Oxford 

University  Press,  1952. 
 .  The  Sufi  Orders  in  Islam.  London:  Oxford  University  Press, 

1971. 

Turton,  David.  "Territorial  Organisation  and  Ages  among  the 
Mursi."  Pages  95-131  in  P.T.W.  Baxter  and  Uri  Almagor 
(eds.),  Age,  Generation,  and  Time:  Some  Features  of  East  African  Age 
Organizations.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1978. 

United  Nations.  Demographic  Yearbook,  1989.  New  York:  1991. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Intelligence  and 
Research.  Ethiopia- French  Territory  of  the  Afars  and  Issas  Boundary. 
(International  Boundary  Study  No.  154.)  Washington:  Febru- 
ary 20,  1976. 

 .  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Intelligence  and  Research. 

Ethiopia-Kenya  Boundary.  (International  Boundary  Study  No.  152.) 

Washington:  October  15,  1975. 
 .  Department  of  State.  Bureau  of  Intelligence  and  Research. 

Ethiopia-Somalia  Boundary.  (International  Boundary  Study  No.  153.) 

Washington:  November  5,  1975. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa 
Events  [London];  Africa  News;  Africa  Now  [London];  Africa  Report; 
Africa  Research  Bulletin  (Political,  Social,  and  Cultural  Series)  [Ex- 
eter, United  Kingdom];  Christian  Science  Monitor;  Ethiopia,  Cen- 
tral Statistical  Authority,  Ethiopia:  Statistical  Abstract  [Addis  Ababa]; 
Ethiopia,  Ministry  of  Education,  Educational  Statistics  [Addis  Ababa]; 
Ethiopian  Herald  [Addis  Ababa];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information 
Service,  Daily  Report:  Sub-Saharan  Africa;  Keesing's  Contemporary  Ar- 
chives [London];  New  York  Times;  Times  [London];  and  Washington 
Post.) 


Chapter  3 

Alemneh  Dejene.  Environment,  Famine,  and  Politics  in  Ethiopia:  A  View 
from  the  Village.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Rienner,  1990. 

 Peasants,  Agrarian  Socialism,  and  Rural  Development  in  Ethio- 
pia. Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

Alemseged  Tesfai.  Communal  Land  Ownership  in  Northern  Ethiopia  and 
Its  Implications  for  Government  Development  Politics.  Madison:  Land 
Tenure  Center,  University  of  Wisconsin,  1973. 


359 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Assefa  Bequele  and  Eshetu  Chole.  A  Profile  of  the  Ethiopian  Econ- 
omy. Addis  Ababa:  Oxford  University  Press,  1969. 

Assefa  Kuru.  "The  Environmental  Impact  of  Agriculture  in  Ethio- 
pia," Environmental  Conservation  [Lausanne],  5,  No.  3,  Autumn 
1978,  213-21. 

Baker,  J.  "Developments  in  Ethiopia's  Road  System,"  Geography 
[Sheffield,  United  Kingdom],  59,  No.  263,  April  1974,  150-54. 

Barinov,  M.  "Socialist  Ethiopia  Moves  Confidently  Ahead,"  Inter- 
national Affairs  [Moscow],  November  1980,  22-28. 

Berhanu  Abegaz.  "A  Brief  Note  on  Recent  Ethiopian  Economic 
Statistics,"  Northeast  African  Studies,  8,  No.  1,  1986,  31-34. 

Blase,  Melvin  G.,  and  Marcus  L.  Winter.  Assessment  of  Ethiopian 
Agricultural  Sector.  Addis  Ababa:  n.  pub.,  December  1973. 

Bondestam,  Lars.  "Notes  on  Multinational  Corporations  in  Ethio- 
pia," African  Review  [Dar  es  Salaam],  5,  No.  4,  1975,  535-49. 

 "People  and  Capitalism  in  the  North  Eastern  Lowlands 

of  Ethiopia, ' '  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [London]  ,12,  No .  3 , 
September  1974,  432-39. 

Bottomley,  Anthony.  "Garment  Making  in  a  Low-Wage  Nation: 
The  Case  of  Ethiopia,"  Economic  Bulletin  for  Africa,  11,  No.  1, 
1975,  1-11. 

Brietzke,  Paul.  "Land  Reform  in  Revolutionary  Ethiopia, "  Jour- 
nal of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  14,  No.  4,  December  1976, 
637-60. 

Bringing  Africa  Together:  The  Story  of  Ethiopian  Airlines.  Addis  Ababa: 
Ethiopian  Airlines,  1988. 

Burley,  Dexter.  "The  Despised  Weavers  of  Addis  Ababa."  Pages 
145-49  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  Interna- 
tional Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago:  University  of  Illinois 
at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Cassiers,  Anne.  "Handicrafts  and  Technical  Innovation  in  Ethio- 
pia," Cultures  [Paris],  2,  No.  3,  1975,  103-18. 

Clark,  Ronald  J.  "The  Ethiopian  Land  Reform:  Scope,  Accom- 
plishments, and  Future  Objectives,"  Land  Reform,  Land  Settle- 
ment, and  Cooperatives  [Rome],  No.  2,  1975,  65-68. 

Clay,  Jason  W.,  Sandra  Steingraber,  and  Peter  Niggli.  The  Spoils 
of  Famine:  Ethiopian  Famine  Policy  and  Peasant  Agriculture.  Cam- 
bridge: Cultural  Survival,  1988. 

Cohen,  John  M.  "Ethiopia  after  Haile  Selassie:  The  Government 
Land  Factor,"  African  Affairs  [London],  72,  No.  289,  October 
1973,  365-82. 

 .  Integrated  Rural  Development:  The  Ethiopian  Experience  and  the 

Debate.  Uppsala:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African  Studies,  1987. 


360 


Bibliography 


 .  "Rural  Change  in  Ethiopia:  The  Chilalo  Agricultural 

Development  Unit,"  Economic  Development  and  Cultural  Change, 
22,  No.  4,  July  1974,  580-614. 

Cohen,  John  M.,  and  Peter  H.  Koehn.  "Rural  and  Urban  Land 
Reform  in  Ethiopia,"  African  Law  Studies,  No.  14,  1977,  3-61. 

Cohen,  John  M.,  and  Dov  Weintraub.  Land  and  Peasants  in  Im- 
perial Ethiopia:  The  Social  Background  to  a  Revolution.  Assen,  Nether- 
lands: Van  Gorcum,  1975. 

Cohen,  John  M.,  J. W.  Mellor,  and  Arthur  A.  Goldsmith.  "Rural 
Development  Issues  Following  Ethiopia's  Land  Reform,"  Africa 
Today,  23,  No.  2,  1976,  7-28. 

Daniel  Teferra.  "The  Lack  of  Development  in  Ethiopia,"  North- 
east African  Studies,  6,  Nos.  1-2,  1984,  13-22. 

Dessalegn  Rahmato.  Agrarian  Reform  in  Ethiopia.  Trenton:  Red  Sea 
Press,  1985. 

 Famine  and  Survival  Strategies:  A  Case  Study  from  Northeast  Ethio- 
pia. Addis  Ababa:  Institute  of  Development  Research,  Addis 
Ababa  University,  1987. 

Disney,  Richard.  "Some  Measures  of  Rural  Income  Distribution 
in  Ethiopia,"  Development  and  Change  [The  Hague],  7,  1976,  35- 
44. 

Dunning,  Harrison  C.  "Land  Reform  in  Ethiopia:  A  Case  Study 
in  Non-Development,"  UCLA  Law  Review,  18,  No.  2,  Decem- 
ber 1970,  271-307. 

Ethiopia.  Central  Statistical  Authority.  Results  on  Area,  Production, 
and  Yield  of  Major  Crops.  (Bulletin  No.  74.)  Addis  Ababa:  1989. 

 Central  Statistical  Authority.  Time  Series  Data  on  Area, 

Production,  and  Yield  of  Major  Crops,  1979-80/1985-86.  (Bulletin 
No.  56.)  Addis  Ababa:  October  1987. 

 Ministry  of  Agriculture.  Planning  and  Programming 

Department.  Area,  Production,  and  Yield  of  Major  Crops.  Addis 
Ababa:  July  1979. 

Ethiopian  Revolution  Information  Center.  Ethiopia  in  Revolution. 
Addis  Ababa:  July  1977. 

"Foreign  Economic  Relations  and  Our  Path  of  Development," 
Meskerem  [Addis  Ababa],  3,  No.  12,  March  1982,  88-104. 

Getahun  Amare.  "Agricultural  Systems  in  Ethiopia,"  Agricultural 
Systems  [Barking,  United  Kingdom],  3,  October  1978,  281-93. 

Ghose,  Ajit  Kumar.  "Transforming  Feudal  Agriculture:  Agrar- 
ian Change  in  Ethiopia  since  19/ A ,"  Journal  of  Development  Studies 
[London],  22,  No.  1,  October  1985,  127-49. 

Gilkes,  Patrick.  The  Dying  Lion:  Feudalism  and  Modernization  in  Ethio- 
pia. New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1975. 


361 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Gill,  Gerard  J.  "Bottlenecks  in  a  Single-Cropping  System  in 
Chilalo,  Ethiopia:  The  Acceptance  and  Relevance  of  Improved 
Farming  Equipment,"  World  Development  [Oxford],  5,  Nos.  9-10. 
1977,  867-78. 

Gill,  Gerard  J.  (ed.).  Reading  on  the  Ethiopian  Economy.  Addis  Ababa: 
Institute  of  Development  Research,  Haile  Selassie  I  University, 
November  1974. 

Gill,  Peter.  A  Year  in  the  Death  of  Africa.  London:  Paladin  Grafton 
Books,  1986. 

Griffin,  Keith,  and  Roger  Hay.  "Problems  of  Agricultural  De- 
velopment in  Socialist  Ethiopia:  An  Overview  and  a  Suggested 
Strategy ,"  Journal  of  Peasant  Studies  [London],  13,  No.  1,  Octo- 
ber 1985,  37-66. 

Gyenge,  Zoltan.  Ethiopia  on  the  Road  of  N on- Capitalist  Development. 
(Studies  on  Developing  Countries,  No.  90.)  Budapest:  Institute 
for  World  Economics,  Hungarian  Academy  of  Sciences,  1976. 

Haile  Yesus  Abegaz.  The  Organization  of  State  Farms  in  Ethiopia  after 
the  Land  Reform  of  1975:  Planning,  Realization,  Potential,  and  Prob- 
lems. (Socioeconomic  Studies  on  Rural  Development,  No.  46.) 
Saarbriicken:  Breitenbach,  1982. 

Harbeson,  John  W.,  and  Paul  H.  Brietzke  (eds.).  "Rural  Develop- 
ment in  Ethiopia,"  Rural  Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975,  1-155. 

Henze,  PaulB.  Ethiopia:  Crisis  of  a  Marxist  Economy.  Santa  Monica, 
California:  Rand,  1989. 

 Ethiopia's  Economic  Prospects  for  the  1990s.  Santa  Monica, 

California:  Rand,  1989. 

Hess,  Robert  L.  (ed.).  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  International  Conference 
on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago:  University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago 
Circle,  1979. 

Holmberg,  Johan.  Grain  Marketing  and  Land  Reform  in  Ethiopia. 
(Research  Report  No.  41.)  Uppsala:  Scandinavian  Institute  of 
African  Studies,  1977. 

Imperial  Ethiopian  Government  and  Swedish  International  De- 
velopment Authority.  Evaluation  Team.  Final  Report  on  the  Ap- 
praisal of  CADU  and  EPID.  n.  pi.:  May  1974. 

Kidane  Mengisteab.  Ethiopia:  Failure  of  Land  Reform  and  Agriculture 
Crisis.  New  York:  Greenwood  Press,  1990. 

Koehn,  Peter.  "Ethiopia:  Famine,  Food  Production,  and  Changes 
in  the  Legal  Order,"  African  Studies  Review,  22,  No.  1,  April  1979, 
51-71. 

Legum,  Colin,  and  Bill  Lee.  The  Horn  of  Africa  in  Continuing  Crisis. 

New  York:  Africana,  1979. 
M.  Fisseha-Tsion.  "A  Short  Review  of  the  Ethiopian  Income  Tax 

System,"  Bulletin  of  International  Fiscal  Documentation  [Amsterdam], 

34,  No.  1,  January  1980,  4-16. 


362 


Bibliography 


McBain,  N.S.  ' 'Developing  Country  Product  Choice:  Footwear 
in  Ethiopia,"  World  Development  [Oxford],  5,  Nos.  9-10,  1977, 
829-38. 

McCann,  James.  From  Poverty  to  Famine  in  Northeast  Ethiopia:  A  Rural 
History,  1900-1935.  Philadelphia:  University  of  Pennsylvania 
Press,  1987. 

Makin,  M.J.,  et  al.  Development  Prospects  in  the  Southern  Rift  Valley, 

Ethiopia.  Surbiton,  United  Kingdom:  Land  Resources  Division, 

Ministry  of  Overseas  Development,  1975. 
Manig,  Winfried.  Socio -Economic  Conditions  of  Peasant  Holdings  in 

Ethiopia.  Saarbriicken:  Verlag  der  SSIP-Schriften,  1976. 
Markakis,  John.  Ethiopia:  Anatomy  of  a  Traditional  Polity.  New  York: 

Oxford  University  Press,  1974. 
Markie,  John.  "Some  Recent  Developments  Affecting  Agricultural 

Cooperatives,  Marketing,  and  Credit  in  Ethiopia,"  Land  Reform, 

Land  Settlement,  and  Cooperatives  [Rome],  No.  1,  1975,  54-61. 
Mesfin  Wolde-Mariam.  An  Atlas  of  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  n.  pub., 

1970. 

 An  Introductory  Geography  of  Ethiopia.  Addis  Ababa:  Haile 

Selassie  I  University,  1972. 

Mulatu  Wubneh.  A  Spatial  Analysis  of  Urban- Industrial  Development 
in  Ethiopia.  Syracuse:  Maxwell  School  of  Citizenship  and  Pub- 
lic Affairs,  University  of  Syracuse,  1982. 

Mulatu  Wubneh  and  Yohannis  Abate.  Ethiopia:  Transition  and  De- 
velopment in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1988. 

Nair,  K.N.  N.S.  Ethiopia:  Economic  Analysis  of  Land  Use.  Rome:  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  1986. 

National  Bank  of  Ethiopia.  Annual  Report,  1987-88.  Addis  Ababa: 
1988. 

Newcombe,  Kenneth.  An  Economic  Justification  for  Rural  Afforesta- 
tion: The  Case  of  Ethiopia.  Washington:  World  Bank,  1984. 

Ottaway,  Marina.  "Land  Reform  in  Ethiopia,  1974-1977,"  Afri- 
can Studies  Review,  20,  No.  3,  December  1977,  79-90. 

 "Social  Classes  and  Corporate  Interests  in  the  Ethiopian 

Revolution , ' '  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [  London]  ,14,  No .  3 , 
September  1976,  469-86. 

Ottaway,  Marina  (ed.).  The  Political  Economy  of  Ethiopia.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1990. 

Ottaway,  Marina,  and  David  Ottaway.  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolu- 
tion. New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Pankhurst,  Richard  K.  Economic  History  of  Ethiopia,  1800-1935. 
Addis  Ababa:  Haile  Selassie  I  University  Press,  1968. 


363 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Pausewang,  Siegfried.  "Land,  Market,  and  Rural  Society  (Rural 

Ethiopia,  1840-1976)."  Pages  701-12  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.), 

Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  International  Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies. 

Chicago:  University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 
 Peasants,  Land,  and  Society:  A  Social  History  of  Land  Reform 

in  Ethiopia.  Munich:  Ifo-Institut  fur  Wirtschaftsforschung,  1983. 
"Reconstruction  of  the  Economy,"  Yekatit  [Addis  Ababa],  8,  No.  1, 

September  1984,  15-19. 
Royal  Swedish  Embassy.  Ethio- Swedish  Development  Co- Operation. 

Addis  Ababa:  March  1976. 
Sadler,  Peter  G.  Regional  Development  in  Ethiopia.  (Bangor  Occasional 

Papers  in  Economics,  No.  8.)  Bangor:  University  of  Wales  Press, 

1976. 

Schulz,  Manfred.  Organizing  Extension  Services  in  Ethiopia  Before  and 
After  Revolution.  Saarbriicken:  Verlag  der  SSIP-Schriften,  1976. 

Seleshi  Sisaye.  "Agricultural  Systems  in  Ethiopia:  A  Review  Ar- 
ticle," Agricultural  Systems  [Barking,  United  Kingdom],  5,  1980, 
29-38. 

"Spotlight  on  Ethiopia,"  Africa:  An  International  Business ,  Economic 

and  Political  Magazine  [London],  No.  21,  May  1973,  73-82. 
Stahl,  Michael.  New  Seeds  in  Old  Soil:  A  Study  of  the  Land  Reform  Process 

in  Western  Wollega,  Ethiopia,  1975-76.  (Research  Report  No.  40.) 

Uppsala:  Scandinavian  Institute  of  African  Studies,  1977. 
Teketel  Haile-Mariam.  "The  Impact  of  Coffee  on  the  Economy 

of  Ethiopia."  Pages  117-34  in  Scott  R.  Pearson  et  al.  (eds.), 

Commodity,  Exports,  and  African  Economic  Development.  Lexington, 

Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1974. 
Teshome  Mulat.  "The  Revenue  Effectiveness  of  the  Ethiopian 

Coffee  Export  Taxation,"  Public  Finance  [The  Hague],  34,  No.  3, 

1979,  375-83. 

United  States.  Agency  for  International  Development.  Food  and 
Agricultural  Division.  Ethiopia:  A  Review  of  the  Agricultural  Sector. 
Washington:  GPO,  1970. 

 Department  of  Agriculture.  A  Survey  of  Agriculture  in  Ethio- 
pia. Washington:  GPO,  1969. 

Wood,  A. P.  "Rural  Development  and  National  Integration  in 
Ethiopia,"  African  Affairs  [London],  82,  No.  329,  1983,  509-39. 

World  Bank.  Economic  Memorandum  on  Ethiopia.  Washington:  1981. 

 .  Ethiopia:  An  Export  Action  Program.  Washington:  1986. 

 Ethiopia:  Forestry  Project.  Washington:  1986. 

 Ethiopia:  Industrial  Sector  Review.  Washington:  1985. 

 .  Ethiopia:  Policy  Agenda  for  Economic  Revival.  Washington: 

1989. 


364 


Bibliography 

 .  Ethiopia:  Recent  Economic  Developments  and  Prospects  for  Recovery 

and  Growth.  Washington:  1987. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Contemporary  Record;  Africa 
Events  [London];  African  Business  [London];  Africa  Research  Bulletin 
(Economic,  Financial,  and  Technical  Series)  [Exeter,  United  King- 
dom]; Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Uganda,  Ethio- 
pia, Somalia,  Djibouti  [London];  Ethiopia,  Central  Statistical 
Authority,  Annual  Survey  of  Manufacturing  Industries  [Addis  Ababa], 
Area,  Production,  and  Yield  of  Major  Crops:  Estimates  [Addis  Ababa], 
and  Ethiopia:  Statistical  Abstract  [Addis  Ababa];  Ethiopian  Herald  [Addis 
Ababa];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Sub- 
Saharan  Africa;  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  Annual  Report  and  Quarterly 
Bulletin  [Addis  Ababa];  and  New  African  [London].) 


Chapter  4 

Andargachew  Tiruneh.  The  Ethiopian  Revolution,  1974-87:  A  Trans- 
formation from  an  Aristocratic  to  a  Totalitarian  Autocracy.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  Unitversity  Press,  1993. 

Babile  Tola.  To  Kill  a  Generation:  The  Red  Terror  in  Ethiopia.  Washing- 
ton: Free  Ethiopia  Press,  1989. 

Beau  champ,  Kay.  Ethiopia:  An  African  Giant  Awakens.  London: 
Liberation,  1983. 

Bereket  Habte  Selassie.  Conflict  and  Intervention  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
London:  Monthly  Review  Press,  1980. 

 "Political  Leadership  in  Crisis:  The  Ethiopian  Case," 

Horn  of  Africa,  3,  No.  1,  January-March  1980,  3-13. 

Brietzke,  Paul  H.  "Law,  Revolution,  and  the  Ethiopian  Peasant," 
Rural  Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975,  7-37. 

Chaliland,  Gerard.  "The  Horn  of  Africa's  Dilemma,"  Foreign  Pol- 
icy, No.  10,  Spring  1978,  116-31. 

Clapham,  Christopher  S.  Transformation  and  Continuity  in  Revolutionary 
Ethiopia.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1988. 

Cohen,  John  M.,  and  Nils-Ivar  Isaksson.  Villagization  in  the  Arsi 
Region  of  Ethiopia.  Uppsala:  Swedish  University  of  Agricultural 
Sciences,  1987. 

Cohen,  John  M.,  and  Peter  H.  Koehn.  Ethiopian  Provincial  and 
Municipal  Government:  Imperial  Patterns  and  Postrevolutionary  Changes. 
(Committee  on  Northeast  African  Studies,  Ethiopian  Series, 
Monograph  No.  9.)  East  Lansing:  African  Studies  Center, 
Michigan  State  University,  1980. 


365 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


David,  Steven.  "Realignment  in  the  Horn:  The  Soviet  Advan- 
tage," International  Security,  4,  No.  2,  Fall  1979,  69-90. 

Dawit  Wolde  Giorgis.  Red  Tears:  War,  Famine,  and  Revolution  in  Ethio- 
pia. Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1989. 

Dessalegn  Rahmato.  Agrarian  Reform  in  Ethiopia.  Uppsala:  Scan- 
dinavian Institute  of  African  Studies,  1984. 

Erlich,  Haggai.  Ethiopia  and  the  Challenge  of  Independence.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Rienner,  1986. 

"Ethiopia:  Five  Years  Later,"  Africa  [London],  No.  97,  Septem- 
ber 1979,  29-33. 

"Ethiopia:  Revolutions  in  the  Revolution,"  Africa  [London], 
No.  92,  April  1979,  42-43. 

Ethiopian  Revolution  Information  Center.  The  Ethiopian  Revolu- 
tion and  the  Problem  in  Eritrea.  Addis  Ababa:  July  1977. 

Firebrace,  James,  with  Stuart  Holland.  Never  Kneel  Down:  Drought, 
Development,  and  Liberation  in  Eritrea.  Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press, 
1985. 

Fitzgerald,  James  F.  "Gunboat  Diplomacy  and  the  Horn,"  Horn 
of  Africa,  2,  No.  2,  April-June  1979,  49-54. 

Hall,  Marilyn  Ann.  "The  Ethiopian  Revolution:  Group  Interac- 
tion and  Civil-Military  Relations."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.) 
Washington:  George  Washington  University,  1977. 

Halliday,  Fred,  and  Maxine  Molyneux.  The  Ethiopian  Revolution. 
London:  Verso,  1981. 

Harbeson,  John  W.  "Ethiopia  and  the  Horn  of  Africa,"  Northeast 
African  Studies,  1,  No.  1,  1979,  27-40. 

 .  The  Ethiopian  Transformation:  The  Quest  for  the  Post-Imperial 

State.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

 *  'Revolution  and  Rural  Development  in  Ethiopia, ' '  Rural 

Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975,  1-7. 

 "Socialism,  Traditions,  and  Revolutionary  Politics  in  Con- 
temporary Ethiopia,"  Canadian  Journal  of  African  Studies  [Ottawa], 
11,  No.  2,  1977,  217-35. 

 .  "Socialist  Politics  in  Revolutionary  Ethiopia."  Pages 

345-417  in  Carl  G.  Rosberg  and  Thomas  M.  Callaghy  (eds.), 
Socialism  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa:  A  New  Assessment.  Berkeley:  Insti- 
tute of  International  Studies,  University  of  California,  1979. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  Communist  Ethiopia:  Is  It  Succeeding?  Santa  Monica, 
California:  Rand,  1985. 

 .  Ethiopia  in  1990:  The  Revolution  Unraveling.  (Rand  Paper 

No.  P-7707.)  Santa  Monica,  California:  Rand,  1991. 

 .  The  Ethiopian  Revolution:  Mythology  and  History.  Santa 

Monica,  California:  Rand,  1989. 

Jansson,  Kurt.  The  Ethiopian  Famine.  London:  Zed  Books,  1987. 


366 


Bibliography 


Jordan  Gebre-Medhin.  Peasants  and  Nationalism  in  Eritrea.  Trenton: 
Red  Sea  Press,  1989. 

Kaplan,  Robert  D.  Surrender  or  Starve:  The  Wars  Behind  the  Famine. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Katz,  Donald  R.  "Children's  Revolution:  A  Bloodbath  in  Ethio- 
pia," Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  3,  July-September  1978,  3-11. 

Keller,  Edmond  J.  "The  Ethiopian  Revolution  at  the  Crossroads," 
Current  History,  83,  March  1984,  117-21. 

 Revolutionary  Ethiopia:  From  Empire  to  People's  Republic. 

Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1988. 

 .  "State,  Party,  and  Revolution  in  Ethiopia,"  African  Studies 

Review,  28,  No.  1,  March  1986,  1-17. 

Keller,  Edmond  J.,  and  Donald  Rothchild  (eds.).  Afro-Marxist  Re- 
gimes: Ideology  and  Public  Policy.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Rienner,  1987. 

Koehn,  Peter.  "Ethiopia:  Famine,  Food  Production,  and  Changes 
in  the  Legal  Order,"  African  Studies  Review,  22,  No.  1,  April  1979, 
51-71. 

Korn,  David  A.  Ethiopia,  the  United  States,  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Car- 
bondale:  Southern  Illinois  University  Press,  1986. 

Lefort,  Rene.  Ethiopia:  An  Heretical  Revolution?  London:  Zed  Press, 
1983. 

Legum,  Colin.  "Ethiopia  in  Turmoil,"  New  African  [London],  262, 
July  1989,  9-14. 

Legum,  Colin,  and  Bill  Lee.  The  Horn  of  Africa  in  Continuing  Crisis. 
New  York:  Africana,  1979. 

Makinda,  Samuel.  Superpower  Diplomacy  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Lon- 
don: Croom  Helm,  1987. 

Markakis,  John.  Class  and  Revolution  in  Ethiopia.  Trenton:  Red  Sea 
Press,  1986. 

 "Garrison  Socialism:  The  Case  of  Ethiopia,"  MERIP 

Reports,  No.  79,  9,  No.  5,  June  1979,  3-17. 

 National  and  Class  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cambridge: 

Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 

 .  "Nationalities  and  the  State  in  Ethiopia,"  Third  World 

Quarterly  [London],  10,  No.  4,  October  1989,  118-47. 

Markakis,  John,  and  Nega  Ayele.  Class  and  Revolution  in  Ethiopia. 
Nottingham,  United  Kingdom:  Spokesman  Books,  1978. 

Matatu,  Godwin.  "Ethiopia's  Finest  Hour,"  Africa  [London], 
No.  79,  March  1978,  17-20,  25-26. 

Mekasha  Getachew.  "An  Inside  View  of  the  Ethiopian  Revolu- 
tion," Munger  Africana  Library  Notes,  No.  39,  July  1977,  3-39. 

Mulatu  Wubneh  and  Yohannis  Abate.  Ethiopia:  Transition  and  De- 
velopment in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1988. 


367 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Okbazghi  Yohannes.  Eritrea:  A  Pawn  in  World  Politics.  Gainesville: 
University  of  Florida  Press,  1991. 

Ottaway,  David.  "Africa:  U.S.  Policy  Eclipse,"  Foreign  Affairs  (Spe- 
cial Edition,  America  and  the  World,  1979),  58,  No.  3,  1980,  637-58. 

Ottaway,  Marina.  "Democracy  and  New  Democracy:  The  Ideo- 
logical Debate  in  the  Ethiopian  Revolution,"  African  Studies 
Review,  21,  No.  1,  April  1978,  19-31. 

 "Land  Reform  and  Peasant  Associations:  A  Preliminary 

Analysis,"  Rural  Africana,  No.  28,  Fall  1975,  39-54. 

 .  Soviet  and  American  Influence  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  New  York: 

Praeger,  1982. 

Ottaway,  Marina  (ed.).  The  Political  Economy  of  Ethiopia.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1990. 

Ottaway,  Marina,  and  David  Ottaway.  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolu- 
tion. New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Parent,  Marc.  "Ethiopia  after  the  Empire:  A  Nation  Torn  Asun- 
der," International  Perspectives  [Ottawa] ,  July- August  1978,  35-42. 

Peberdy,  Max.  Tigray:  Ethiopia's  Untold  Story.  London:  Relief  So- 
ciety of  Tigray  UK  Support  Committee,  1985. 

Pliny  the  Middle-Aged  (pseud.).  "The  PMAC:  Origins  and  Struc- 
ture," Pt.  1,  Ethiopianist  Notes,  2,  No.  3,  1978-79,  1-18. 

 "The  PMAC:  Origins  and  Structure,"  Pt.  2,  Northeast 

African  Studies,  1,  No.  1,  1979,  1-20. 

Pool,  David.  Eritrea:  Africa's  Longest  War.  London:  Anti-Slavery 
Society,  1982. 

Ruiz,  Hiram  A.  Beyond  the  Headlines:  Refugees  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
Washington:  U.S.  Committee  for  Refugees,  1988. 

Sherman,  Richard.  "Center-Periphery  Relations  in  Ethiopia," 
Horn  of  Africa,  2,  No.  2,  April-June  1979,  36-48. 

Singer,  Norman  J.  "Legal  Development  in  Post-Revolutionary 
Ethiopia,"  Horn  of  Africa,  1,  No.  2,  April-June  1978,  21-26. 

Spencer,  John  H.  Ethiopia  at  Bay:  A  Personal  Account  of  the  Haile  Sel- 
lassie  Years.  Algonac,  Michigan:  Reference  Publications,  1984. 

Testfatsion  Medhanie.  Eritrea:  Dynamics  of  a  National  Question.  Am- 
sterdam: Gruner,  1986. 

Woodward,  Peter.  "Ethiopia  and  the  Sudan:  The  Inter-State  Out- 
come of  Domestic  Conflict,"  Contemporary  Review  [London], 
No.  230,  May  1977,  231-34. 

Yodfat,  Aryeh  Y.  "The  Soviet  Union  and  the  Horn  of  Africa," 
Northeast  African  Studies,  1,  No.  3,  1979-80,  1-17. 

(The  following  publications  were  also  used  in  the  preparation 
of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa  Contemporary 
Record;  Africa  Events  [London];  Africa  News;  Africa  Report;  Africa 


368 


Bibliography 


Research  Bulletin  (Political,  Social,  and  Cultural  Series)  [Exeter, 
United  Kingdom] ;  Christian  Science  Monitor;  Ethiopian  Herald  [Addis 
Ababa];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Sub- 
Saharan  Africa;  Keesing's  Contemporary  Archives  [London];  New  Afri- 
can [London];  New  York  Times;  Times  [London];  and  Washington 
Post.) 


Chapter  5 

Abbati,  A.H.  Italy  and  the  Abyssinian  War.  London:  London  General 
Press,  1936. 

Agyeman-Duah,  Baffour.  "The  U.S.  and  Ethiopia:  The  Politics 
of  Military  Assistance,"  Armed  Forces  and  Society,  12,  No.  2,  Winter 
1986,  287-306. 

Amnesty  International.  Amnesty  International  Report,  1977.  London: 
1977. 

 .  Ethiopia:  Human  Rights  Violations.  London:  1977. 

 .  Ethiopia:  Political  Imprisonment.  London:  1989. 

 .  Ethiopia:  Political  Imprisonment  and  Torture.  London:  1986. 

 .  Ethiopia:  Violation  of  Rights  of  Man.  London:  1978. 

Asante,  S.K.B.  Pan- African  Protest:  West  Africa  and  the  Italo- Ethiopian 
Crisis,  1934-1941.  London:  Longman,  1977. 

Babazade,  Eduard.  "Fraternal  Relations:  Ten  Years  of  Soviet- 
Ethiopian  Treaty  of  Friendship,"  Soviet  Military  Review  [Moscow], 
11,  November  1988,  55-56. 

 .  "Strength  in  Unity:  Revitalised  Ethiopian  Army,"  Soviet 

Military  Review  [Moscow],  6,  June  1987,  53-54. 

Babile  Tola.  To  Kill  a  Generation:  The  Red  Terror  in  Ethiopia.  Washing- 
ton: Free  Ethiopia  Press,  1989. 

Badoglio,  Pietro.  The  War  in  Abyssinia.  London:  Methuen,  1937. 

Baissa,  Marilyn  Hall.  "Civil-Military  Elite  Interaction  in  the  Ethio- 
pian Revolution:  The  Role  of  Students."  Pages  771-82  in  Robert  L. 
Hess  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  International  Conference  on  Ethio- 
pian Studies.  Chicago:  University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Bates,  Darrell.  The  Abyssinian  Difficulty:  The  Emperor  Theodorus  and 
the  Magdala  Campaign,  1867-68.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press, 
1979. 

Baynham,  Simon,  and  Richard  Snailham.  "Ethiopia."  Pages  206-11 
in  John  Keegan  (ed.),  World  Armies.  New  York:  Facts  on  File, 
1979. 

Bekele  Mesfin.  "Prison  Conditions  in  Ethiopia,"  Horn  of  Africa,  2, 
No.  2,  April-June  1979,  4-11. 


369 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Bell,  John  B.  "Endemic  Insurgency  and  International  Order:  The 

Eritrean  Experience,"  Orbis,  18,  No.  2,  1974,  427-50. 
Bereket  Habte  Selassie.  Conflict  and  Intervention  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 

London:  Monthly  Review  Press,  1980. 
 .  "Eritrea:  A  Colonial  Question,"  Africa  Currents  [London], 

11,  Summer  1978,  28-29. 
Berger,  Carol.  "Eritrea:  The  Longest  War,"  Africa  Report,  32, 

No.  2,  1987,  30-32. 
Berhane  Woldemichael.  "Ethiopian  Military  in  Disarray,"  Review 

of  African  Political  Economy  [Sheffield,  United  Kingdom] ,  44,  1989, 

60-63. 

Berkeley,  G.F.H.  The  Campaign  of  Ado w a  and  the  Rise  of  Menelik. 

New  York:  Negro  Universities  Press,  1969. 
Brown,  James  Ambrose.  The  War  of  a  Hundred  Days:  Springboks  in 

Somalia  and  Abyssinia,  1940-41.  Johannesburg:  Ashanti,  1990. 
Campbell,  John  Franklin.  "Rumblings  along  the  Red  Sea:  The 

Eritrean  Question,"  Foreign  Affairs,  48,  No.  4,  April,  1970,  537- 

48. 

Caulk,  Richard  A.  "Armies  as  Predators:  Soldiers  and  Peasants 
in  Ethiopia,  c.  1850-1935,"  International  Journal  of  African  Historical 
Studies,  1,  No.  3,  1978,  475-93. 

 .  "The  Army  and  Society  in  Ethiopia,"  Ethiopianist  Notes, 

1,  No.  3,  Spring  1978,  17-24. 

Christides,  Vassilios.  "The  Himyarite-Ethiopian  War  and  the 
Ethiopian  Occupation  of  South  Arabia  in  the  Acts  of  Gregen- 
tius  (ca.  530  A.D.),"  Annales  dEthiopie  [Paris],  9,  No.  2,  1972, 
115-46. 

Clapham,  Christopher  S.  "Ethiopia  and  Somalia."  Pages  1-23 
in  Conflicts  in  Africa.  London:  International  Institute  of  Strate- 
gic Studies,  1972. 

 .  "The  Ethiopian  Coup  d'Etat  of  December  1960,"  Jour- 
nal of  Modern  African  Studies  [London],  6,  No.  4,  1968,  495-507. 

 Transformation  and  Continuity  in  Revolutionary  Ethiopia.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1988. 

Clay,  Jason  W. ,  and  Bonnie  K.  Holcomb.  Politics  and  the  Ethiopian 
Famine,  1984-1985.  Cambridge:  Cultural  Survival,  1986. 

Cliffe,  Lionel,  and  Basil  Davidson.  The  Long  Struggle  of  Eritrea  for 
Independence  and  Constructive  Peace.  Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1988. 

Cliffe,  Lionel,  Basil  Davidson,  and  Bereket  Habte  Selassie  (eds.). 
Behind  the  War  in  Eritrea.  Nottingham,  United  Kingdom:  Spokes- 
man Books,  1980. 

Cole,  Ernest.  Ethiopia:  Political  Power  and  the  Military.  Paris:  Ban- 
que  d'information  et  de  documentation  de  l'ocean  Indien,  1985. 


370 


Bibliography 


David,  Steven.  "Realignment  in  the  Horn:  The  Soviet  Advan- 
tage," International  Security,  4,  No.  2,  Fall  1979,  69-90. 

Dawit  Wolde  Giorgis.  Red  Tears:  War,  Famine,  and  Revolution  in  Ethio- 
pia. Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press,  1989. 

Diamond,  Robert  A.,  and  David  Fouquet.  "American  Military 
Aid  to  Ethiopia  and  Eritrean  Insurgency,"  Africa  Today,  19, 
No.  1,  1972,  37-43. 

Dugan,  James,  and  Laurence  Lafore.  Days  of  Emperor  and  Clown: 
The  Italo- Ethiopian  War,  1935-1936.  Garden  City,  New  York: 
Doubleday,  1973. 

Ellingson,  Lloyd.  "The  Origin  and  Development  of  the  Eritrea 
Liberation  Movement."  Pages  613-28  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.), 
Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  International  Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies. 
Chicago:  University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Enahoro,  Peter.  "Ethiopia:  Army  Tightens  Grip,"  Africa  [Lon- 
don], No.  68,  April  1977,  16-18.  " 

 .  "Ethiopia-Sudan-Somalia:  War  of  Nerves,"  Africa  [Lon- 
don], No.  66,  February  1977,  16-17. 

Eritrean  Liberation  Front.  The  Eritrean  Revolution.  Beirut:  ELF  In- 
formation Centre,  1977. 

 .  The  Struggle  of  Eritrea.  Damascus:  n.d. 

Eritrean  Relief  Association.  Health  Service  Delivery  in  Eritrea.  Khar- 
toum: 1983. 

Eritreans  for  Liberation  in  North  America.  Revolution  in  Eritrea:  The 

Ethiopian  Military  Dictatorship  and  Imperialism.  New  York:  1975. 
Erlich,  Haggai.  The  Struggle  over  Eritrea,  1962-1978.  Stanford, 

California:  Hoover  Institute,  1982. 
Farer,  Tom  J.  War  Clouds  on  the  Horn  of  Africa:  The  Widening  Storm. 

New  York:  Carnegie  Endowment  for  International  Peace,  1979. 
Firebrace,  James,  with  Stuart  Holland.  Never  Kneel  Down:  Drought, 

Development,  and  Liberation  in  Eritrea.  Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press, 

1985. 

Fuller,  J.F.C.  The  First  of  the  League  Wars:  Its  Lessons  and  Omens. 
London:  Eyre  and  Spottiswode,  1936. 

Garthoff,  Raymond  L.  Detente  and  Confrontation.  Washington:  Brook- 
ings Institution,  1985. 

Glover,  Michael.  An  Improvised  War:  The  Abyssinian  Campaign  of 
1940-1941.  London:  Leo  Cooper,  1987. 

Gorman,  Robert.  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  New  York:  Praeger, 
1981. 

Great  Britain.  Ministry  of  Information.  The  Abyssinian  Campaigns. 

London:  HMSO,  1942. 
Grilz,  Almerigo.  "Ethiopia  Fights  a  War  of  Confusion,"  Jane's 

Defence  Weekly  [London],  April  25,  1987,  762-64. 


371 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

Haile  Semere.  "The  Roots  of  the  Ethiopia-Eritrea  Conflict:  The 
Erosion  of  the  Federal  Act, ' '  Journal  of  Eritrean  Studies,  1 ,  No.  1 , 
1986,  1-18. 

Hall,  Marilyn  Ann.  "The  Ethiopian  Revolution:  Group  Interac- 
tion and  Civil-Military  Relations."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.) 
Washington:  George  Washington  University,  1977. 

Heiden,  Lynda.  "The  Eritrean  Struggle,"  Monthly  Review,  30,  No.  2, 
1978,  13-29. 

Henze,  Paul  B.  "Arming  the  Horn,  1960-1980:  Military  Expen- 
ditures, Arms  Imports,  and  Military  Aid  in  Ethiopia,  Kenya, 
Somalia,  and  Sudan  with  Statistics  on  Economic  Growth  and 
Government."  Pages  637-56  in  Sven  Rubenson  (ed.),  Proceed- 
ings of  the  Seventh  International  Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Uppsala: 
Scandinavian  Institute  of  African  Studies,  1984. 

 .  Eritrea:  The  Dilemmas  of  Marxism.  Philadelphia:  Foreign 

Policy  Research  Institute,  1988. 

 "Eritrea:  The  Endless  War,"  Washington  Quarterly,  9, 

No.  2,  Spring  1986,  23-36. 

 .  Mengistu  's  Ethiopian  Marxist  State  in  Terminal  Crisis:  How  Long 

Can  It  Survive?  What  Will  Be  Its  Legacy?  Washington:  Rand,  1990. 

 Rebels  and  Separatists  in  Ethiopia:  Regional  Resistance  to  a  Marxist 

Regime.  Santa  Monica,  California:  Rand,  1985. 

 Russians  and  the  Horn:  Opportunism  and  the  Long  View.  Ma- 
rina del  Rey,  California:  European  American  Institute  for  Secu- 
rity Research,  1983. 

Johnson,  Michael,  and  Trish  Johnson.  "Eritrea:  The  National 
Question  and  the  Logic  of  Protracted  Struggle,"  African  Affairs 
[London],  80,  No.  319,  April  1981,  181-95. 

Jordan  Gebre-Medhin.  "Nationalism,  Peasant  Politics,  and  the 
Emergence  of  a  Vanguard  Front  in  Eritrea,"  Review  of  African 
Political  Economy  [Sheffield,  United  Kingdom],  30,  1984,  48-57. 

 Peasants  and  Nationalism  in  Eritrea.  Trenton:  Red  Sea  Press, 

1989. 

Kaplan,  Robert  D.  Surrender  or  Starve:  The  Wars  Behind  the  Famine. 

Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 
Kaufman,  Michael  T.  "A  Reign  of  War  in  the  Land  of  Sheba," 

New  York  Times  Magazine,  January  8,  1978,  16-19,  22-28,  48-49. 
Kinnock,  Glenys.  Eritrea:  Images  of  War  and  Peace.  London:  Chatto 

and  Windus,  1988. 
Korn,  David  A.  Ethiopia,  the  United  States ,  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Car- 

bondale:  Southern  Illinois  University  Press,  1986. 
Legum,  Colin,  and  Bill  Lee.  The  Horn  of  Africa  in  Continuing  Crisis. 

New  York:  Africana,  1979. 


372 


Bibliography 


Levine,  Donald  N.  "The  Military  in  Ethiopian  Politics:  Capabil- 
ities and  Constraints."  Pages  5-34  in  Henry  Bienen  (ed.),  The 
Military  Intervenes:  Case  Studies  in  Political  Development.  New  York: 
Russell  Sage  Foundation,  1968. 

Lobban,  Richard.  Eritrean  Liberation  Front:  A  Close- Up  View.  (Munger 
Africana  Library  Notes,  No.  13.)  Pasadena:  Munger  Africana 
Library,  1972. 

 .  "The  Eritrean  War:  Issues  and  Implications,"  Canadian 

Journal  of  African  Studies  [Ottawa],  10,  No.  2,  1976,  335-46. 

Machida,  Robert.  Eritrea:  The  Struggle  for  Independence.  Trenton:  Red 
Sea  Press,  1987. 

Marcus,  Harold  G.  Ethiopia,  Great  Britain,  and  the  United  States, 
1941-1974:  The  Politics  of  Empire.  Berkeley:  University  of  Califor- 
nia Press,  1983. 

Markakis,  John.  National  and  Class  Conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1987. 

 "Nationalities  and  the  State  in  Ethiopia,"  Third  World 

Quarterly  [London],  10,  No.  4,  October  1989,  118-47. 

Markakis,  John,  and  Nega  Ayele.  Class  and  Revolution  in  Ethiopia. 
Nottingham,  United  Kingdom:  Spokesman  Books,  1978. 

Markakis,  John,  and  M.  Waller  (eds.).  Military  Marxist  Regimes  in 
Africa.  London:  Frank  Cass,  1986. 

"Mengistu  Unleashes  People's  Militia,"  Africa  [London],  72,  Au- 
gust 1977,  29-30. 

Merriam,  John  G.  "Military  Rule  in  Ethiopia,"  Current  History, 
60-71,  No.  421,  November  1976,  170-73,  183-84. 

Milivojevic,  Marko.  "The  Ethiopian  Armed  Forces,"  Armed  Forces 
[London],  7,  March  1988,  134-39. 

Mockler,  Anthony.  Haile  Selassie's  War:  The  Italian- Ethiopian  Cam- 
paign, 1935-1941.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1984. 

Morison,  Geoffrey.  Eritrea  and  the  Southern  Sudan:  Aspects  of  Some  Wider 
African  Problems.  London:  Minority  Rights  Group,  1976. 

Myatt,  Frederick.  The  March  to  Magdala:  The  Abyssinian  War  of 1868. 
London:  Leo  Cooper,  1970. 

Orpen,  Neil.  South  African  Forces  in  World  War  II:  East  Africa  and 
Abyssinia.  Cape  Town:  Purnell,  1968. 

Ottaway,  Marina.  Soviet  and  American  Influence  in  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
New  York:  Praeger,  1982. 

Ottaway,  Marina,  and  David  Ottaway.  Ethiopia:  Empire  in  Revolu- 
tion. New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Pankhurst,  Richard  K.  "The  Effects  of  War  in  Ethiopian  History," 
Ethiopia  Observer  [London  and  Addis  Ababa],  7,  No.  2,  1963, 
143-64. 


373 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


 "The  Ethiopian  Army  of  Former  Times,"  Ethiopia  Ob- 
server [London  and  Addis  Ababa],  7,  No.  2,  1963,  118-43. 

 "Fire-Arms  in  Ethiopian  History  (1800-1935),"  Ethiopia 

Observer  [London  and  Addis  Ababa],  6,  No.  2,  1962,  135-80. 

 "The  History  of  Fire- Arms  in  Ethiopia  prior  to  the 

Nineteenth  Century,"  Ethiopia  Observer  [London  and  Addis 
Ababa],  11,  No.  3,  1976,  202-25. 

 A  History  of  the  Ethiopian  Army.  Addis  Ababa:  Artistic 

Printers,  1967. 

 "An  Inquiry  into  the  Penetration  of  Fire-Arms  into 

Southern  Ethiopia  in  the  19th  Century  prior  to  the  Reign  of 
Menelik,"  Ethiopia  Observer  [London  and  Addis  Ababa],  12, 
No.  2,  1968,  128-36. 

 An  Introduction  to  the  History  of  the  Ethiopian  Army.  Genbot, 

Ethiopia:  Imperial  Ethiopian  Air  Force,  101st  Training  Centre, 
1959. 

Parfitt,  Tudor.  Operation  Moses:  The  Untold  Story  of  the  Exodus  of  the 
Falasha  Jews  from  Ethiopia.  London:  Weidenfeld  and  Nicholson, 
1985. 

Pateman,  Roy.  Eritrea:  Even  the  Stones  Are  Burning.  Trenton:  Red 
Sea  Press,  1990. 

 '  'The  Eritrean  War, ' '  Armed  Forces  and  Society,  1 7 ,  No.  1 , 

Fall  1990,  81-98. 

 "Eritrea's  Struggle  for  Independence,"  Current  Affairs 

Bulletin,  60,  No.  11,  1984,  25-31. 

Patman,  Robert  G.  The  Soviet  Union  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1990. 

Peninou,  Jean  Louis.  Eritrea:  The  Guerrillas  of  the  Red  Sea.  New  York: 
Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Forces,  1976. 

Perham,  Margery  F.  The  Government  of  Ethiopia.  Evanston:  North- 
western University  Press,  1969. 

Petterson,  Donald.  "Ethiopia  Abandoned?  An  American  Perspec- 
tive," International  Affairs  [London],  62,  No.  4,  Autumn  1986, 
627-45. 

Pool,  David.  Eritrea:  Africa's  Longest  War.  London:  Anti-Slavery 
Society,  1982. 

Porter,  Bruce  D.  The  USSR  in  Third  World  Conflicts.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1984. 

Redden,  Kenneth  R.  The  Legal  System  of  Ethiopia.  Charlottesville, 
Virginia:  Mitchie,  1968. 

Rennell,  Francis  James.  British  Military  Administration  of  Occupied 
Territories  in  Africa  During  the  Years  1941-1947.  Westport,  Con- 
necticut: Greenwood  Press,  1970. 


374 


Bibliography 


Research  and  Information  Centre  on  Eritrea.  Revolution  in  Eritrea: 

Eyewitness  Reports.  Rome:  1979. 
Schwab,  Peter.  "Human  Rights  in  Ethiopia,"  Journal  of  Modern 

African  Studies  [London],  14,  No.  1,  March  1976,  155-60. 
Sherman,  Richard.  Eritrea:  The  Unfinished  Revolution.  New  York: 

Praeger,  1980. 

Singer,  NormanJ.  "Ethiopia:  Human  Rights,  1948-1978."  Pages 
663-78  in  Robert  L.  Hess  (ed.),  Proceedings  of  the  Fifth  Interna- 
tional Conference  on  Ethiopian  Studies.  Chicago:  University  of  Illinois 
at  Chicago  Circle,  1979. 

Sisaye  Seleshi.  "Human  Rights  and  U.S.  Aid  to  Ethiopia:  A  Policy 
Dilemma,"  Africa  Quarterly  [New  Delhi],  18,  No.  4,  April  1979, 
17-30. 

Skordiles,  Kimon.  Kagnew:  The  Story  of  the  Ethiopian  Fighters  in  Korea. 
Tokyo:  Radiopress,  1954. 

Spencer,  John  H.  Ethiopia,  the  Horn  of  Africa,  and  U.S.  Policy.  Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts:  Institute  for  Foreign  Policy  Analysis, 
1977. 

Tekeste  Negash.  No  Medicine  for  the  Bite  of  a  White  Snake:  Notes  on 
Nationalism  and  Resistance  in  Eritrea,  1890-1940.  Uppsala:  Uppsala 
University  Press,  1987. 

Tesfatsion  Medhanie.  Eritrea:  Dynamics  of  a  National  Question.  Am- 
sterdam: Gruner,  1986. 

With,  Peter.  Politics  and  Liberation:  The  Eritrean  Struggle,  1961-86. 
Aarhus,  Denmark:  University  of  Aarhus,  1987. 

 "The  Radicalisation  of  the  Eritrean  Liberation  Struggle." 

(Research  paper.)  Aarhus,  Denmark:  University  of  Aarhus, 
1987. 

Woodward,  Peter.  "Ethiopia  and  the  Sudan:  The  Inter- State  Out- 
come of  Domestic  Conflict,"  Contemporary  Review  [London], 
No.  230,  May  1977,  231-34. 

 .  War — or  Peace — in  North-East  Africa?  London:  Centre  for 

Security  and  Conflict  Studies,  1989. 

Yohannis  Abate.  "Civil-Military  Relations  in  Ethiopia,"  Armed 
Forces  and  Society,  10,  No.  3,  Spring  1984,  380-400. 

 "The  Legacy  of  Imperial  Rule:  Military  Intervention  and 

the  Struggle  for  Leadership  in  Ethiopia,  1974-78,"  Middle  Eastern 
Studies  [London],  January  1983,  28-42. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London];  Africa 
Contemporary  Record;  Africa  Events  [London];  African  Defense  Journal 
[London];  Africa  Research  Bulletin  (Political,  Social,  and  Cultural  Se- 
ries) [Exeter,  United  Kingdom];  Christian  Science  Monitor;  Ethiopian 


375 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Herald  [Addis  Ababa];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service, 
Daily  Report:  Sub -Sahar an  Africa;  International  Institute  for  Strategic 
Studies,  The  Military  Balance  [London]  and  Strategic  Survey  [London]; 
Keesing's  Contemporary  Archives  [London];  New  African  [London];  New 
York  Times;  Stockholm  International  Peace  Research  Institute,  World 
Armaments  and  Disarmament;  Third  World  Reports  [West  Sussex,  United 
Kingdom];  Times  [London];  and  Washington  Post.) 


376 


Glossary 


age-set  system — A  system  comprising  several  named  sets  (or  groups) 
of  men,  each  of  which  consists  of  those  initiated  in  a  given  pe- 
riod. Each  set  passes  through  a  series  of  age-grades,  taking  on 
the  rights,  duties,  and  activities  specific  to  the  grade.  In  Ethiopia 
such  a  system  coexists  with  a  generation-set  system  in  some 
ethnic  groups,  e.g.,  the  gada  system  (q.  v.)  among  the  Oromo. 

balabat — An  Amharic  term  originally  referring  to  any  person  with 
a  claim  to  rist  (q.v.)  land  by  virtue  of  membership  in  a  cognatic 
descent  group  (q.v.).  Commonly  used  since  the  establishment 
of  present-day  Ethiopia  by  Menelik  II  in  the  late  nineteenth  cen- 
tury for  those  local  chiefs  and  other  non-Amhara  who  were  as- 
signed low-level  administrative  positions  among  their  own  people 
and  who  were  allocated  substantial  landholdings. 

birr  (pi.,  birr;  no  symbol  used) — The  Ethiopian  monetary  unit,  com- 
posed of  100  cents.  Introduced  officially  in  1976,  replacing  the 
Ethiopian  dollar  at  par.  Through  mid-1991,  US$1  equaled  2.07 
birr,  or  1  birr  was  worth  about  US$0.48. 

clan — A  group  whose  members  are  descended  in  the  male  line  from 
a  putative  common  male  ancestor  (patrician)  or  in  the  female 
line  from  a  putative  common  female  ancestor  (matriclan — not 
reported  in  Ethiopia).  Clans  may  be  divided  into  subclans  or- 
ganized on  the  same  principle  or  into  lineages  (q.v.)  believed 
to  be  linked  by  descent  from  a  remote  common  ancestor. 

clan-family — Among  the  Somali,  a  group  of  clans  (q.v.)  believed 
to  be  linked  by  descent  from  a  remote  common  ancestor. 

cognatic  descent  group — A  group  comprising  those  persons  tracing 
descent  from  a  common  ancestor  through  both  males  and  fe- 
males, thereby  differing  from  unilineal  descent  groups  (q.v.), 
such  as  clans  (q.v.)  and  lineages  (q.v.).  This  entity  is  important 
among  the  Amhara  and  the  Tigray  as  the  one  holding  the  block 
of  land  in  which  its  members  claim  rist  (q.v.)  rights.  The  group 
has  no  other  function. 

Derg — Formed  in  June  1974  and  composed  of  a  substantial  body 
of  young  military  officers,  none  above  the  rank  of  major,  drawn 
from  the  main  units  of  the  army,  air  force,  navy,  and  police. 
The  Derg's  membership  ranged  from  perhaps  106  to  120  or 
more.  New  officers  were  never  admitted,  whereas  original  mem- 
bers were  continuously  eliminated,  especially  during  the  Derg's 
early  years.  Its  inner  workings  were  almost  never  disclosed. 
Known  at  first  as  the  Coordinating  Committee  of  the  Armed 


377 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Forces,  Police,  and  Territorial  Army,  after  September  1974 
it  was  known  as  the  Provisional  Military  Administrative  Council 
(PMAC),  or  simply  as  the  Derg  (Amharic  for  "committee" 
or  "council"),  a  term  derived  from  Gi'iz  and  little  used  be- 
fore the  1974  revolution.  The  Derg  lasted  officially  from  June 
1974  to  September  1987,  when  the  People's  Democratic  Repub- 
lic of  Ethiopia  came  into  being, 
descent  group — A  group  having  political,  economic,  or  social  func- 
tions. Formation  of  the  group  is  based  on  actual  or  putative 
descent  through  persons  of  one  sex  from  a  common  ancestor 
of  the  same  sex,  and  therefore  called  unilineal  descent  groups 
(clans  or  lineages — q.  v. ),  or  through  persons  of  both  sexes  from 
a  common  ancestor  of  either  sex  (cognatic  descent  groups — 
q.v.). 

Ethiopian  calendar  year — The  Ethiopian  year  consists  of  365  days, 
divided  into  twelve  months  of  thirty  days  each  plus  one  addi- 
tional month  of  five  days  (six  in  leap  years).  Ethiopian  New 
Year's  falls  on  September  11  and  ends  the  following  Septem- 
ber 10,  according  to  the  Gregorian  (Western)  calendar.  From 
September  11  to  December  31,  the  Ethiopian  year  runs  seven 
years  behind  the  Gregorian  year;  thereafter,  the  difference  is 
eight  years.  Hence,  the  Ethiopian  year  1983  began  on  Septem- 
ber 1 1 ,  1990,  according  to  the  Gregorian  calendar,  and  ended 
on  September  10,  1991.  This  discrepancy  results  from  differ- 
ences between  the  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church  and  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  as  to  the  date  of  the  creation  of  the  world. 

Ethiopian  fiscal  year  (EFY) — Based  on  the  Ethiopian  calendar  year 
(q.v.).  Corresponds  to  July  8  to  July  7,  seven  years  behind  the 
Gregorian  (Western)  calendar  through  December  3 1 ,  and  eight 
years  behind  thereafter. 

gada  system — An  Oromo  term  used  to  refer  to  a  system  that  groups 
persons  (invariably  males)  of  the  same  generation  (rather  than 
age)  into  sets.  The  sets  are  ordered  hierarchically  and  assigned 
a  range  of  social,  military,  political,  and  ritual  rights  and  respon- 
sibilities. Generation-set  systems  are  found  in  varying  forms 
among  the  Oromo  and  other  groups,  e.g.,  the  Konso  and 
Sidama. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  a  domestic  national  economy 
during  a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding 
the  value  contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form 
of  profits,  compensation  to  employees,  and  depreciation  (con- 
sumption of  capital).  Only  domestic  production  is  included, 
not  income  arising  from  investments  and  possessions  owned 


378 


Glossary 


abroad,  hence  the  use  of  the  word  "domestic"  to  distinguish 
GDP  from  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — q. v.).  Real  GDP 
is  the  value  of  GDP  when  inflation  has  been  taken  into  account. 
In  this  book,  subsistence  production  is  included  and  consists  of 
the  imputed  value  of  production  by  the  farm  family  for  its  own 
use  and  the  imputed  rental  value  of  owner-occupied  dwellings. 
In  countries  lacking  sophisticated  data-gathering  techniques,  such 
as  Ethiopia,  the  total  value  of  GDP  is  often  estimated, 
gross  national  product  (GNP) — The  total  market  value  of  all  final 
goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  during  a  year. 
Obtained  by  adding  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — q.  v. ) 
and  the  income  received  from  abroad  by  residents  and  then 
subtracting  payments  remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents.  Real 
GNP  is  the  value  of  GNP  when  inflation  has  been  taken  into 
account. 

gait — A  principle  of  land  tenure  among  the  Amhara,  Tigray,  and, 
with  modifications,  elsewhere.  Abolished  by  the  military 
government  in  1975.  Gult  rights  were  rights  granted  by  the  em- 
peror or  his  designated  representative  either  to  members  of  the 
ruling  group  as  a  reward  for  service  or  to  Ethiopian  Orthodox 
churches  or  monasteries  as  endowments.  The  holder  of  gult 
rights,  often  but  not  always  an  official,  was  entitled  to  collect 
tribute  and  demand  labor  from  those  on  the  land  over  which 
he  held  rights.  Some  of  the  tribute  was  kept,  and  the  remainder 
was  passed  upward. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  is  responsible  for  stabiliz- 
ing international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The  main  busi- 
ness of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  members 
(including  industrialized  and  developing  countries)  when  they 
experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties.  These  loans  fre- 
quently carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  internal  eco- 
nomic adjustments  by  the  recipients,  most  of  which  are 
developing  countries. 

kebele — Popular  term  used  to  describe  a  cooperative  urban  neigh- 
borhood association.  Kebeles  were  formed  after  the  nationali- 
zation of  all  urban  land  and  rentable  dwellings  in  July  1975. 
These  cooperatives  became  the  counterpart  of  the  peasant  as- 
sociations developed  under  the  military  government's  Land  Re- 
form Proclamation  of  March  1975.  After  their  introduction, 
kebeles  became  the  basic  unit  of  urban  government  and  served 
as  instruments  of  sociopolitical  control  in  urban  areas. 


379 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 

lineage — A  group  whose  members  are  descended  through  males 
from  a  common  male  ancestor  (patrilineage)  or  through  females 
from  a  common  female  ancestor  (matrilineage — not  reported 
in  Ethiopia).  Such  descent  can  in  principle  be  traced.  Line- 
ages vary  in  genealogical  depth  from  the  ancestor  to  living 
generations;  the  more  extensive  ones  often  are  internally  seg- 
mented. 

Lome  Convention — A  series  of  agreements  between  the  European 
Community  (EC)  and  a  group  of  African,  Caribbean,  and  Pa- 
cific (ACP)  states,  mainly  former  European  colonies,  that  pro- 
vide duty-free  or  preferential  access  to  the  EC  market  for  almost 
all  ACP  exports.  The  Stabilization  of  Export  Earnings  (Sta- 
bex)  scheme,  a  mechanism  set  up  by  the  Lome  Convention, 
provides  for  compensation  for  ACP  export  earnings  lost  through 
fluctuations  in  the  world  prices  of  agricultural  commodities. 
The  Lome  Convention  also  provides  for  limited  EC  develop- 
ment aid  and  investment  funds  to  be  disbursed  to  ACP 
recipients  through  the  European  Development  Fund  and  the 
European  Investment  Bank.  The  Lome  Convention  is  updated 
every  five  years.  Lome  I  took  effect  on  April  1,  1976;  Lome 
II,  on  January  1,  1981;  Lome  III,  on  March  1,  1985;  and  Lome 
IV,  on  December  15,  1989. 

Red  Terror — The  campaign  of  terror  unleashed  by  the  Derg  (q.  v. ) 
in  response  to  the  urban  guerrilla  warfare — the  so-called  White 
Terror — of  the  Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Party  and 
later  of  other  leftist  civilian  opponents  of  the  Derg,  such  as  the 
All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Movement.  Beginning  in  February  1977, 
untold  thousands  of  mostly  young  people  were  jailed,  tortured, 
and  killed  before  the  Red  Terror  had  run  its  course  by  early 
1978. 

rist — A  principle  of  land  tenure  among  the  Amhara  and,  with  some 
variations,  among  the  Tigray.  Rist  rights  are  land-use  rights 
that  any  Amhara  or  Tigray,  peasant  or  noble,  can  claim  by 
virtue  of  descent  through  males  and  females  from  the  original 
holder  of  such  rights.  Claims  must  be  recognized  by  the  cog- 
natic  descent  group  (q.v.).  Once  held,  such  rights  cannot  be 
withdrawn  except  in  favor  of  one  who  presumably  holds  a  bet- 
ter claim  or,  in  extreme  cases,  by  the  emperor. 

sublineage — A  segment  of  a  lineage  (q.v.)  and  organized  on  the 
same  principles. 

teff  (eragrostis  abyssinicd) — A  cereal  indigenous  to  Ethiopia,  to  which 
its  consumption  is  almost  entirely  confined.  It  is  the  most  widely 
grown  grain  in  the  highlands,  where  its  flour  is  preferred  in 


380 


Glossary 


the  making  of  the  unleavened  bread  injera,  the  traditional  form 
of  cereal  intake. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four 
affiliated  international  institutions  that  provide  advice  and  as- 
sistance on  long-term  finance  and  policy  issues  to  developing 
countries:  the  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  De- 
velopment (IBRD),  the  International  Development  Associa- 
tion (IDA),  the  International  Finance  Corporation  (IFC),  and 
the  Multilateral  Investment  Guarantee  Agency  (MIGA).  The 
IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  as  its  primary  purpose  the  pro- 
vision of  loans  at  market-related  rates  of  interest  to  develop- 
ing countries  at  more  advanced  stages  of  development.  The 
IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  but  administered  by  the  staff 
of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  furnish  credits  to  the  poorest 
developing  countries  on  much  easier  terms  than  those  of  con- 
ventional IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  founded  in  1956,  supplements 
the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through  loans  and  assistance  designed 
specifically  to  encourage  the  growth  of  productive  private  en- 
terprises in  the  less  developed  countries.  The  president  and  cer- 
tain senior  officers  of  the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the 
IFC.  The  MIGA,  which  began  operating  in  June  1988,  insures 
private  foreign  investment  in  developing  countries  against  such 
noncommercial  risks  as  expropriation,  civil  strife,  and  incon- 
vertibility of  currency.  The  four  institutions  are  owned  by  the 
governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their  capital.  To 
participate  in  the  World  Bank  Group,  member  states  must  first 
belong  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 

zemecha — Amharic  for  "campaign,"  in  the  military  sense;  popu- 
lar term  used  to  denote  the  military  government's  Develop- 
ment Through  Cooperation  Campaign,  which  was  launched 
as  part  of  the  initial  land  reform  in  1975.  Early  implementa- 
tion included  forced  mobilization  of  university  and  secondary 
school  students  to  explain  the  socialist  revolution,  including  land 
reform,  to  peasants  and  to  improve  their  traditionally  low  liter- 
acy rate.  The  term  "green"  zemecha  was  used  to  describe  the 
agricultural  aspects  of  the  National  Revolutionary  Development 
Campaign  in  1979. 


381 


Contributors 


LaVerle  Berry  is  a  Research  Analyst  in  African  Affairs  with  the 
Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress. 

Edmond  J.  Keller  is  Professor  of  Political  Science  and  Director 
of  the  James  S.  Coleman  African  Studies  Center  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  California  at  Los  Angeles. 

Mulatu  Wubneh  is  Associate  Professor  of  Planning  at  East  Caro- 
lina University. 

Thomas  P.  Ofcansky  is  a  Senior  African  Analyst  with  the  Depart- 
ment of  Defense. 

John  W.  Turner  is  an  African  Analyst  with  the  Department  of 
Defense. 

Yohannis  Abate  is  a  Geographer  and  African  Analyst  with  the 
Department  of  Defense. 


383 


Index 


AAPO.  See  All- Amhara  People's  Organi- 
zation 

Aba  Samuel:  electric  plant,  190-91 
Abay  River  (Blue  Nile),  32,  73;  as  poten- 
tial source  of  hydroelectric  power,  190 
Abiye  Abebe,  56 
Abu  Bakr,  122 

abun  (Ethiopian  Orthodox  patriarch):  sup- 
plied by  Coptic  Church  of  Egypt,  11,13 

Abyot  Seded  (Revolutionary  Flame),  237, 
238 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS),  138 

Ada:  development  projects  in,  163 

Adal  sultanate:  conquered  by  Zara  Yakob, 
15;  effect  ofOromo  migrations  on,  20; 
Oromo  in,  26;  revival  of,  18 

Addis  Ababa:  airport,  198;  electric  plant, 
191;  established  as  capital,  29-30;  ety- 
mology of,  29,  73;  health  care  in,  136; 
labor  union  in,  161;  migration  to,  83; 
percentage  of  population  in,  82;  popu- 
lation growth  in,  82;  schools  established 
in,  35,  130,  131;  in  World  War  II,  37, 
39,  40 

Addis  Ababa  administrative  division,  222 
Addis  Ababa- Aseb  highway,  197;  attacks 

on,  197 
Addis  Ababa  Bank,  155 
Addis  Ababa-Djibouti  railroad,  xxxii,  32; 

under  British  military  administration, 

40;  construction  of,  30,  32 
Addis  Ababa  University,  xxxi,  130;  closed 

by  Derg,  58;  College  of  Agriculture, 

133;  faculty  of,  133;  medical  schools, 

140;  pharmacy  school,  140 
Addis  Zemen  (newspaper),  253 
Adefa,  12 
73,  259 

administrative  divisions:  insurgencies  in, 
60;  revised,  43,  222,  223,  243;  in  Tran- 
sitional Government,  xxviii-xxix 

Administrative  Line  (Ethiopia-Somalia), 

Adola  gold  mine,  192 

Adulis,  7,  8,  11 

AEPA.  See  All-Ethiopia  Peasants'  Asso- 
ciation 

Afabet,  battle  of,  305-6,308 


AETU.  See  All-Ethiopia  Trade  Union 
AEUDA.  See  All-Ethiopia  Urban  Dwellers' 

Association 
Afar  language,  6,  103 
Afar  Liberation  Front  (ALF),  xxxii,  62, 

239,  248 

Afar  people,  xxxii,  17,  18,  28-29,  95;  de- 
mands for  self-determination,  235;  land 
distribution  by,  168;  and  land  reform, 
169;  number  of,  96,  248;  religious  af- 
filiation of,  116;  tribes  of,  96 

Afar  Plain,  76 

Afar  Sultanate  Liberation  Front,  248 
AFCC.  See  Armed  Forces  Coordinating 

Committee 
African  Development  Bank,  181,  194 
Afro-Asiatic  super-language  family,  6,  91; 

dispersion  of,  6-7;  languages  of,  91 
Agew  districts:  Amhara  expansion  into, 

15 

Agew  language,  6,  97;  speakers  of,  97 

Agew  people,  11,  25,  97 

Agricultural  and  Industrial  Development 
Bank,  155,  183 

agricultural  cooperatives  (see  also  state 
farms),  85,  145,  172-74,  235;  develop- 
ment of,  172-73;  dismantling  of,  xxx; 
incentives  for,  173,  233;  reaction  to, 
173;  service,  172 

agriculturalists,  165;  Agew  as,  97;  Am- 
hara as,  92;  compensation  to,  after  na- 
tionalization, 189;  Omotic  speakers  as, 
98;  rivalry  of,  with  pastoralists,  3;  sub- 
sistence, 165 

Agricultural  Marketing  Corporation  (AMC), 
185 

agricultural  products:  cash  crops,  146, 
176-  78;  coffee,  146,  176;  cotton,  178; 
ensete,  7,  179-80;  fruit,  180;  grain, 
7,  178,  180;  oilseeds,  177-78,  179; 
pulses,  177-79;  staple  crops,  178-80; 
vegetables,  180;  under  villagization, 
85 

agriculture,  162-85;  ancient,  7;  commer- 
cial, 36,  164,  168-69,  173,  179;  credit 
for,  156;  decline  in,  150;  development, 
163,  170;  electricity  for,  191;  export 
crops,  162,  179,  180,  200-201;  extension 


385 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


services,  86;  government  spending  on, 
155;  growth  in,  148,  186;  improve- 
ments, 36;  investment  in,  153,  173-74, 
188;  irrigation,  168,  178;  under  Italian 
rule,  36;  labor  force  in,  157,  162;  labor 
union  in,  161;  nationalization  in,  149; 
as  occupation,  104;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  162;  perfor- 
mance of,  162-63;  prices,  145;  privati- 
zation in,  xxx;  subsidies  for,  174,  177; 
production,  xxxiv,  150,  162-63,  164, 
165,  169,  187,  201;  traditional,  147 

Ahmad  ibn  Ibrahim  al  Ghazi  ("Gran"), 
18,  22;  jihad  of,  18-20;  killed,  19,  22 

Ahmad  Nasir,  304 

Ahmar  Mountains,  76 

AID.  See  United  States  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome 

AIDS  Control  and  Prevention  Office,  138 
air  force,  279-80,  303;  aircraft  of,  279; 
commander,  279;  competence  of,  280; 
in  coup  attempt  of  1989,  280;  morale, 
286;  number  of  personnel,  276,  279;  or- 
ganization of,  279-80;  origins  of,  279; 
purge  of,  280;  training  of,  279,  284 
Air  Force  Training  Center,  283,  284 
Akaki  Prison  (Central  Prison),  322-23, 
324;  conditions  in,  325;  population 
growth  in,  82 
Akilu  Habte  Wold,  51;  executed,  56;  res- 
ignation of,  52 
Akordat-Mitsiwa  railroad,  194,  197 
Aksum,  7,  8;  abandoned,  12;  cathedral, 
22 

Aksumite  state,  xxv,  7-10,  73;  architec- 
ture in,  9;  area  of,  8;  Christianity  in, 
3;  coins  of,  9;  decline  of,  8,  10;  emer- 
gence of,  7;  exempted  from  Islamic  ji- 
had, 10;  expansion  of,  8,  11-12;  extent 
of,  9;  highlands  colonized  by,  11-12; 
impact  of  Islam  on,  10-11;  influence  of, 
12;  influences  on,  3;  language  of,  8; 
Meroe  conquered  by,  9;  relations  of, 
with  Arabs,  11;  relations  of,  with  By- 
zantine Empire,  10-11;  traditions  in, 
8-9;  written  records  of,  9 

Al  Amin  Muhammad  Sayyid,  250 

Alem  Zewd  Tessema,  53;  executed,  56; 
exiled,  54 

ALF.  See  Afar  Liberation  Front 

Ali,  Ras,  26 


Ali  ibn  Abu  Talib,  122,  123 
Ali  Mirah  (sultan  of  Aussa),  62,  169,  248 
All-Amhara  People's  Organization  (AAPO), 
xxx 

All-Ethiopia  Peasants'  Association  (AEPA), 

172,  211,  224-26 
All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Movement  (MEISON), 

56,  249;  debate  with  Ethiopian  People's 

Revolutionary  Party,  236;  influence  of, 

237;  proscribed,  xxvii,  59 
All-Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (AETU),  113, 

278;  founded,  160,  211,  229;  members 

of,  161;  organization  of,  161;  origins 

of,  58;  restructured,  161 
All-Ethiopia  Urban  Dwellers'  Association 

(AEUDA),  226 
Alula  (ras),  29 
Alvarez,  Francisco,  21-22 
Aman  Mikael  Andom,  54;  background 

of,  55;  conflict  of,  with  Derg,  55;  killed, 

56,  60 

AMC.  See  Agricultural  Marketing  Cor- 
poration 
Amda  Siyon,  15 

American  United  Presbyterian  Church, 
126 

Amhara,  ascendancy  of,  15-17;  domina- 
tion, 90,  91,  101;  emperor,  power  of, 
15-17;  in  Eritrea,  47;  judiciary  under, 
17;  land  tenure  among,  106;  military 
under,  15-16 

Amhara,  district  of,  14;  Aksumite  in- 
fluence in,  12;  control  of  Ifat  sultanate, 
14 

Amhara  domination,  90,  91,  101 
Amhara  nobility:  conflict  of,  with  com- 
moners, 101;  elevation  to,  107;  under 
Haile  Selassie,  43;  land  rights  of,  107, 
108 

Amhara  people,  4,  12,  13,  25,  26,  71,  91; 
conquered  in  Islamic  jihad,  19;  educa- 
tion of,  126;  geographic  distribution  of, 
91,  100;  influences  on,  4;  Italian  at- 
tempts to  isolate,  39;  land  held  by,  71, 
110;  military  ethos  of,  270;  mixing  of 
Oromo  with,  20;  Muslim  attack  on,  4; 
political  power  of,  214;  reaction  to,  101; 
religion  of,  72,  92,  115,  116;  as  ruling 
class,  71;  slaves  held  by,  34;  social  or- 
ganization of,  93 

Amharic  language:  as  language  of  broad- 
casting, 200;  as  language  of  education, 
101,  103,  125,  127;  as  language  of 


386 


Index 


government,  101,  103;  literacy  train- 
ing in,  134;  number  of  speakers  of,  91; 
as  official  language,  47,  103,  217; 
speakers  of,  97 
Amnesty  International,  322,  324,  325, 
327,  329 

Anglo-Ethiopian  agreement  (1950),  73 
Angola,  60 

Angot,  8;  Aksumite  influence  in,  12 
Anuak  people,  99 

Arabia,  Southwest:  migrants  from,  3 

Arabic  language,  47,  91;  as  language  of 
broadcasting,  200;  teaching  of,  dis- 
couraged, 115 

Arabs,  xxv;  aggressiveness  of,  17;  Aksu- 
mite relations  with,  11;  occupation  by, 
of  Dahlak  Islands,  11;  occupation  by, 
of  Sawakin,  11;  support  by,  for  insur- 
gencies, 103;  as  traders,  146 

Arab  states,  46;  support  by,  for  Eritrean 
insurgents,  248 

Aranna  Mountains,  76 

Arba  Minch:  cotton  plantations  in,  178; 
population  growth  in,  82 

Argobba  people,  13,  94;  religious  affilia- 
tion of,  116 

armed  forces,  276-91;  under  Amhara,  15; 
attitudes  toward,  272,  275,  276,  285; 
campaigns  against  insurgents,  87;  chain 
of  command,  277;  command  and  force 
structure,  277-78;  commander  in  chief, 
220,  277;  conditions  in,  289;  conscrip- 
tion, 276-77;  under  constitution  of  1987, 
276-77;  control  of,  16-17;  defections 
from,  262-63;  demonstrations  by,  112; 
under  Derg,  275-76;  desertion  from, 
285;  discipline  of,  285-88;  disintegration 
of,  310;  dismantled,  xxxi,  xxxv;  eco- 
nomic burden  of,  150;  factions  in,  51, 
53;  hierarchy,  272;  imperial,  271-73;  in- 
competence in,  285-86;  Italian  sur- 
render to,  40;  massacres  by,  327;  mem- 
bers of,  arrested  by  Derg,  54,  112;  mis- 
sions of,  276;  modernization  of,  104; 
morale  of,  285-88;  number  of  per- 
sonnel in,  276;  pay  and  benefits  in, 
52,  285;  professionalization  of,  275; 
purged,  288,  292;  recruitment  for,  271; 
reforms  of,  275;  revolution  by,  51; 
training,  273;  women  in,  271,  285 

Armed  Forces  Coordinating  Committee 
(AFCC),  53 

Armed  Forces  Staff  Academy,  283 


Armenians:  as  traders,  146 

Arms  Traffic  Act  (1930),  34-35 

army,  278-79;  attack  formation,  272; 
battlefield  practices,  272;  brigandage, 
272;  cavalry,  272;  command  structure, 
271;  conditions  in,  52;  under  constitu- 
tion of  1987,  217;  desertion,  286;  en- 
gineers, 286;  expansion,  286;  ground 
order  of  battle,  278;  infantry,  272; 
maintenance,  279;  materiel,  278; 
modernization  of,  26,  273-74;  muti- 
nies, 286,  287-88;  number  of  troops  in, 
276,  278;  organization  of,  278;  pay  and 
benefits,  286;  as  percentage  of  armed 
forces,  278;  police  commandos  in,  317; 
police  functions  of,  316;  ranks,  272;  role 
of,  217;  tension  of,  with  People's 
Militia,  286;  training  of,  40,  279,  285 

Arsi:  insurgency  in,  60;  land  distribution 
by,  168;  population  density  in,  79; 
religion  in,  103;  schools  in,  131;  villagi- 
zation  in,  175,  234 

artisans:  fate  of,  112-13;  role  of,  112-13; 
social  status  of,  104,  112 

Aseb,  82;  electric  plant,  191;  free-trade 
zone  in,  xxvii,  34;  granted  autonomy, 
65,  102,  223,  242-43;  naval  base,  280; 
port  of,  29,  197,  198 

Aseb  administrative  division,  222 

Asefa  Ayene,  279 

Ashagre  Yigletu,  250,  251 

Asmera:  airport,  198;  electric  plant,  191; 
health  care  in,  136;  under  Italian  rule, 
36;  percentage  of  population  in,  82 

Asrate  Kasa  (ras),  47 

Atnafu  Abate  (major),  53,  57,  294;  as  sec- 
ond vice  chairman  of  Provisional  Mili- 
tary Administrative  Council,  56 

Aussa,  169 

Australopithecus  afarensis,  6 

Awash:  People's  Militia  in,  281;  popula- 
tion growth  in,  82 

Awash  electric  plants,  190 

Awash  River,  77;  as  potential  source  of 
hydroelectric  power,  190 

Awash  River  valley,  6;  cotton  plantations 
in,  178;  and  land  reform,  169 

Awi  people:  number  of,  97 

Awngi  language,  97 

Azebo  people  (Oromo),  48 

Azebo-Raya  revolt  (1928-30),  247 

Azezo:  air  base,  280;  People's  Militia  in, 
281 


387 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Badoglio,  Pietro,  38 

Bahir  Dar:  electric  plant,  190,  191;  popu- 
lation growth  in,  82;  veterinary  station 
in,  181 

balance  of  payments,  145,  202-3;  deficit, 
149 

balance  of  trade,  148,  200;  deficit,  149, 
200 

Bale:  insurgency  in,  60,  247;  land  distri- 
bution in,  168;  Muslims  in,  103;  popu- 
lation density  in,  79;  schools  in,  131; 
villagization  in,  87,  233 

Banco  di  Napoli,  155 

Banco  di  Roma,  155 

BandAid,  230 

Bani  Shangul  people,  100 

banking,  155-56;  nationalized,  57,  145, 
152,  155 

Bank  of  Ethiopia:  currency  issued  by,  36; 

established,  34,  35 
Baro  River,  77,  198;  as  potential  source 

of  hydroelectric  power,  190 
Basilios  (abuna),  43 
Battle  of  Adwa  (1896),  32 
Battle  of  Dogali  (1887),  29 
Battle  of  Keren  (1941),  40,  239 
Battle  of  Lepanto  (1571),  21 
Battle  of  Metema  (1889),  29 
Battle  of  Shimbra  Kure  (1529),  19 
Bauer,  Dan  Franz,  92 
Baxter,  P.T.W.,  94 
Begemdir:  loyal  ruler  established  in,  35 
Begemdir  and  Simen:  land  tenure  in,  167 
Beja  language,  93,  98 
Beja  people,  98;  converted  to  Islam,  11; 

number  of,  98 
Belgium:  military  mission  of,  34,  273,  282 
Beni  Amir  people,  93 
Berber  language,  6 
Berta  language  family,  91 
Berta  people,  99 

Beta  Israel  people:  emigration  of,  97,  262, 
300;  number  of,  262 

Bethel  Evangelical  Church,  126 

Bilate:  cotton  plantations  in,  178 

Bilen  people:  number  of,  97 

birth  control,  79 

Bloody  Saturday,  56,  60,  255 

Blue  Nile,  32,  73,  77 

Bole  International  Airport,  198 

Borana  people  (Oromo),  94;  land  distri- 
bution by,  168;  religious  affiliation  of, 
103,  116 


border  disputes,  258;  with  Somalia, 
49-50,  258,  259;  with  Sudan,  258,  261 

borders,  72,  73;  Administrative  Line 
(Ethiopia-Somalia),  73 

border  security,  258-61 

Britain:  advisers  from,  40,  282-83;  aid 
from,  27;  Arms  Traffic  Act  signed  by, 
34;  attempts  by,  to  colonize  Eritrea,  4; 
attempts  by,  to  gain  influence  in  Ethio- 
pia, 32;  compensation  to,  after  nation- 
alization, 189;  Italian  surrender  to,  40; 
military  cooperation  with,  32;  military 
training  provided  by,  40,  280;  recog- 
nition by,  of  Italian  occupation,  38; 
relief  from,  230;  Tripartite  Treaty 
signed  by,  32 

British  military  administration,  40,  274; 
areas  administered  by,  40;  economic 
control  by,  41;  end  of,  46,  49 

Bruce,  James,  24 

budget  deficit,  149;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  150,  156 

budget  preparation,  153-54 

Bulgaria:  advisers  from,  257 

bureaucracy  (see  also  civil  service):  con- 
sumption expenditures,  228-29;  em- 
ployment in,  112;  growth  of,  228; 
modernization  of,  104;  rehabilitation 
of,  41 

bureaucrats:  fate  of,  112-13;  role  of, 
112-13 

Byzantine  Empire,  xxv,  10;  Christian 
contact  with,  21 ;  relations  of,  with  Ak- 
sumite  state,  10-11 

CADU.  See  Chilalo  Agricultural  Develop- 
ment Unit 

Canada,  192;  relief  from,  230 

Capital  Development  Fund,  183 

Carter,  Jimmy:  arms  sales  curtailed  by, 
238,  255;  as  peace  negotiator,  250,  306 

Carter  Presidential  Center,  250,  306 

Castro  Ruz,  Fidel,  297 

Catholicism,  Roman:  introduction  of,  4; 
missionaries,  22;  number  of,  125;  per- 
centage of  followers  in  population,  125; 
Portuguese  attempts  to  convert  to,  17, 
22 

cattle,  97,  99,  181-82 

CELU.  See  Confederation  of  Ethiopian 

Labor  Unions 
censorship,  47,  329 


388 


Index 


census  of  1984,  78,  156 
Central  Cushitic  speakers,  97 
Central  Personnel  Agency,  161 
Central  Planning  Supreme  Council,  227 
Central  Prison.  See  Akaki  Prison 
Central  Statistical  Authority  (CSA),  81, 
148 

Chercher  Mountains,  76 

Chilalo  Agricultural  Development  Unit 
(CADU),  163 

China,  10;  assistance  from,  43,  255,  257 

Christianity  (see  also  under  individual  denomi- 
nations), xxv;  conversion  to,  26;  effect 
of  Oromo  migrations  on,  20;  introduc- 
tion of,  10;  spread  of,  10,  12 

Christians:  in  Eritrean  Assembly,  46;  eth- 
nicity of,  71;  parity  of,  with  Muslims, 
47;  rivalry  of,  with  Muslims,  3,  17,  18, 
47 

churches  (see  also  Lalibela):  carved  stone, 
3,  12 

church-state  relations,  43,  217 

civil  servants:  reeducation  of,  227 

civil  service  (see  also  bureaucracy),  227-29; 
conflict  within,  227;  control  by,  228; 
patronage  in,  228;  recruitment  for,  227; 
reform  of,  227 

clergy:  categories  of,  118;  duties  of,  118; 
education  of,  118;  marriage  of,  118;  as 
occupation,  104;  origins  of,  118;  per- 
centage of  population  in,  118;  ritual  pu- 
rity of,  118 

climate,  77-78;  cool  zone,  77,  79;  hot 
zone,  77-78,  79;  precipitation,  77,  78; 
seasons,  78;  temperate  zone,  77,  79; 
temperature,  77,  78 

Coast  Guard,  280 

coastline,  72 

coffee:  as  cash  crop,  146,  176;  cultivation 
of,  97,  146,  176,  177;  domestic  con- 
sumption of,   176;  exports  of,  176, 
200-201,  203,  295;  foreign-exchange 
earnings  from,  177;  price  of,  177,  204; 
revenues  from,  176,  177;  taxes  on,  154 
Cohen,  Herman,  251,  263,  264,  306 
College  of  Teacher  Education,  133 
commerce:  electricity  for,  191;  as  occu- 
pation, 104 
Commercial  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  155 
Commission  for  Higher  Education:  created, 
132 

Commission  for  the  Rehabilitation  of  Ex- 
Soldiers  and  War  Veterans,  xxxi 


Commission  to  Organize  the  Party  of  the 
Workers  of  Ethiopia  (COPWE): 
bureaucracy  of,  212;  Central  Commit- 
tee, 212,  213;  congresses  of,  212;  Derg 
members  in,  212,  213;  distribution  of 
power  in,  212-13;  Executive  Commit- 
tee, 213;  formed,  62,  211,  227;  mem- 
bership of,  211-12;  military  personnel 
in,  212;  People's  Protection  Brigades 
under,  319;  Secretariat,  212 

Committee  of  Unity  and  Collaboration, 
39 

communications,  199-200;  growth  in, 
148 

Compagnia  Nazionale  Impresse  Elet- 
triche,  191 

Compagnie  Imperiale  des  Chemins  de 
Fers  Ethiopiens,  194 

Confederation  of  Ethiopian  Labor  Unions 
(CELU),  51,  236;  abolished,  58,  113, 
160,  229;  recognized,  160 

Conference  of  African  States  on  the  De- 
velopment of  Education,  127 

Congo  (former  Belgian):  troops  commit- 
ted to,  254,  274 

conscription,  232,  263,  276-77,  288-91; 
eligibility  for,  288;  orders,  289,  309; 
press  gangs  for,  289;  problems  caused 
by,  164;  resistance  to,  289,  309 

Constitutional  Commission  (to  set  up 
PDRE),  216;  formed,  214;  members 
of,  214 

constitution  of  1 93 1 ,  35 ;  emperor  under, 

35 

constitution  of  1955,  44-45;  labor  under, 
160;  personal  freedoms  under,  45;  rati- 
fied, 46;  religion  under,  115;  revised, 
52;  sincerity  of,  44 

constitution  of  1987,  214-22;  amend- 
ments to,  215;  approved,  62-63;  armed 
forces  under,  276-77;  citizenship 
under,  217-18;  contents  of,  216;  Coun- 
cil of  Ministers  under,  220-21;  Coun- 
cil of  State  under,  218-19;  discussion 
of,  215;  draft  of,  214-15;  economic 
planning  under,  152,  220;  executive 
under,  219-20;  foreign  relations  under, 
220;  human  rights  under,  326;  judici- 
ary under,  221-22;  legislature  under, 
218;  model  for,  63,  216;  promulgated, 
65,  216,  235;  referendum  on,  215-16; 
regional  administration  under,  223, 
242;  religion  under,  103;  rights  and 


389 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


duties  under,  217;  scientific  socialism 
under,  214;  social  order  under,  216-17; 
Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia  under,  214 

construction:  investment  in,  153,  188; 
labor  union  in,  161;  lumber  in,  183 

consumer  goods:  imports  of,  202;  short- 
ages of,  173 

Coordinating  Committee  of  the  Armed 
Forces,  Police,  and  Territorial  Army. 
See  Derg 

Coptic  Church  of  Egypt,  4;  contact  with, 
12,  21;  patriarch  supplied  by,  11,  13, 
21,  117 

COPWE.  See  Commission  to  Organize 
the  Party  of  the  Workers  of  Ethiopia 
cotton,  178 

Council  of  Chalcedon  (451),  10 
Council  of  Florence  (1441),  21 
Council  of  Ministers,  xxviii,  152,  153, 
220-21,  277,  278;  under  constitution  of 
1987,  216,  217,  219;  members  of,  220; 
reorganized,  220;  responsibilities  of, 
220;  terms  of,  220 
Council  of  Representatives,  xxviii,  xxxi 
Council  of  State,  218-19,  250,  277;  under 
constitution  of  1987,  216,  217;  mem- 
bers of,  218 
counterinsurgency  operations,  276,  282, 
302-3 

coups  d'etat:  attempted,  of  1960,  xxvi,  45; 
attempted,  of  1989,  210,  246,  249-50, 
262,  276,  280,  288,  306,  308,  239 

courts,  xxxiii,  320;  military,  221;  peo- 
ple's, 222;  sharia,  115,  123-24;  special, 
322;  special  appeal,  322;  special  mili- 
tary, 322;  tribal,  319 

crime,  xxxiii,  317,  319-26;  economic, 
322;  political,  315,  320;  punishment 
for,  319-26 

criminal  procedures  code  of  1961,  320 

CSA.  See  Central  Statistical  Authority 

Cuba:  education  in,  135,  227,  237;  med- 
ical assistance  from,  140;  military  ad- 
visers from,  278,  279,  282,  284,  285, 
297;  military  aid  from,  238,  313,  314; 
prisons  constructed  by,  324;  relations 
of,  with  Somalia,  256;  support  by,  for 
insurgents,  248;  troops  from,  5,  60, 
257,  259,  269,  270,  297,  298 

currency:  British  control  of,  41;  devalued, 
xxx;  issued,  36 

current  account:  deficit,  149,  150 

current  expenditures,  155 


Cushitic  languages,  6,  18,  91,  94-98 
Czechoslovakia:  advisers  from,  257;  mili- 
tary agreements  with,  canceled,  270 

Dahlak  Islands,  76;  Arab  occupation  of, 
11;  Soviet  naval  facilities  in,  281 

Damot  (district):  Amhara  expansion  into, 
15 

Davidson,  Basil,  305 

Dawit  Wolde  Giorgis,  230-31 

death:  causes  of,  80,  136-37,  163 

Debre  Birhan  Selassie  church,  23 

Debre  Markos:  population  growth  in,  83 

Debre  Tabor:  burned,  27 

Debre  Zeyit:  air  base,  280;  population 

growth  in,  83;  veterinary  station  in,  181 
debt:  external,  203;  long-term,  203-4; 

service  ratio,  150 
debteras:  duties  of,  118,  120;  education  of, 

118 

Defense  Council,  277 

defense  spending,  204,  291,  309;  budget, 
149,  274;  under  Haile  Selassie,  154;  in 
Ogaden  War,  155;  as  percentage  of 
government  spending,  150,  291 

democratic  centralism,  217 

Denakil  Depression,  76;  climate  in,  77; 
precipitation  in,  78 

Deresa  speakers,  96 

Derg,  71;  administration,  222;  agenda  of, 
54,  236;  agriculture  under,  164;  armed 
forces  under,  275;  attacks  on,  55,  236, 
256;  and  Commission  to  Organize  the 
Party  of  the  Workers  of  Ethiopia,  212, 
213;  dissidents  arrested  by,  55;  domes- 
tic policy  of,  257;  Eritrean  question  dis- 
cussed in,  60,  240;  establishment  of, 
51-54;  foreign  policy  of,  254-57;  goals 
of,  229;  labor  under,  160;  land  reform 
under,  169,  229;  members  of,  53,  212, 
213;  officers  in,  290;  opposition  to,  239; 
Politburo,  236-37;  powers  of,  53,  54; 
power  struggle  in,  56-57;  relations  of, 
with  Somalia,  258-60;  relations  of,  with 
Soviet  Union,  211,  256-57;  relations 
of,  with  Sudan,  260-61;  relations  of, 
with  West,  258;  reorganization  of,  57; 
Standing  Committee  of,  213;  talks  of, 
with  Eritrean  People's  Liberation 
Front,  62,  250-51;  talks  of,  with  Tigray 
People's  Liberation  Front,  251-52;  taxes 
under,  154 


390 


Index 


Dese:  population  growth  in,  83 

development:  armed  forces  in,  275;  in- 
vestment in,  153;  politics  of,  229-35; 
regional,  222-23;  resources  for,  223; 
strategy,  170 

Development  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  188 

Development  Through  Cooperation  Cam- 
paign (zemecha),  134,  236;  economic  im- 
pact of,  149;  goals  of,  129-30,  224; 
health  care  under,  138;  industry  under, 
186-87;  land  reform  under,  169,  172; 
students  in,  58,  129-30,  224 

Directorate  of  Police,  317;  Criminal  In- 
vestigation Branch,  317 

Dire  Dawa:  air  base,  280;  airport,  198; 
electric  plant,  191;  granted  autonomy, 
65,  102,  223;  health  care  in,  136;  popu- 
lation growth  in,  82 

disease,  136-37;  as  cause  of  death,  80 

Djibouti,  49;  border  with,  72;  Ethiopian 
refugees  in,  87,  89,  90;  port  of,  197 

Djibouti,  port  of,  197 

Doctors  without  Borders,  84 

Dornier  company,  284 

Dorze  people,  98 

drainage,  73-77 

drought,  xxx,  xxxiv,  5,  52,  71,  83,  145, 
200,  201,  204,  210;  as  cause  of  death, 
80;  demonstrations  against,  160;  im- 
pact of,  87,  150,  162,  164,  177;  of  1969, 
87;  of  1972-74,  163;  of  1978,  88;  of 
1984-86,  83,  90,  232;  of  1987,  89;  pol- 
itics of,  230-32;  refugees  from,  88; 
relief,  180 


EAL.  See  Ethiopian  Air  Lines 
earthquakes,  77 
East  African  Rift  Plateau,  73 
East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 
Republic 

East  Sudanic  language  family,  91;  lan- 
guages of,  91 

ECHAAT.  See  Revolutionary  Struggle  of 
the  Ethiopian  Masses 

economic:  base,  162;  growth,  148;  pol- 
icy, 147;  reform,  209,  262 

economic  development,  147,  148;  based 
on  scientific  socialism,  210;  components 
of,  209-10 

economic  plans  (see  also  under  five-year 
plans),  138,  145,  147-48;  under  consti- 


tution of  1987,  217,  220;  under  Derg, 
152;  diversification  under,  185;  ten- 
year  perspective  plan,  145 
economy:  collapse  of,  xxx,  63-64;  un- 
der constitution  of  1987,  217;  diver- 
sification of,  149,  185;  feudal,  151,  163, 
170,  222;  growth,  148;  under  impe- 
rial regime,  146-49;  Marxist,  145- 
46,  149-50,  152;  mixed,  146,  152-53, 
165,  187,  189-90,  263;  policy,  147; 
under  Provisional  Government  of  Eri- 
trea, xxxiv-xxxv;  reform,  209,  262; 
role  of  government  in,  151-56;  tradi- 
tional, 146;  under  Transitional  Govern- 
ment of  Ethiopia,  xxx;  underground, 
154 

EDU.  See  Ethiopian  Democratic  Union 
education   (see  also   schools),  126-35; 
changes  in,  53;  under  constitution  of 
1987,  217;  deficiencies  in,  127;  foreign 
assistance  for,  135;  government  spend- 
ing on,  129,  155;  under  imperial  rule, 
126-29;  lack  of,  130;  of  middle  class, 
104;  by  missionaries,  126;  opportunity 
for,  126;  policy,  127,  130;  primary,  72; 
progress  in,  229;  public,  127;  in  rural 
areas,  72;  secular,  127;  under  Tafari 
Mekonnen,  34;  taxes  for,  128-29;  voca- 
tional, 132-34 
education,  higher,   132-34;  admission 
criteria,  133;  enrollment  in,  133;  ex- 
pansion of,  133;  objectives  of,  132-33; 
women  in,  133 
Education  Sector  Review  (ESR),  129 
education  system:  changes  in,  53,  128;  ex- 
panded, 72;  inadequacies  of,  128;  re- 
forms of,  130;  responsiveness  of,  to 
national  needs,  126 
EC.  See  European  Community 
EFAP.  See  Ethiopian  Forestry  Action  Plan 
Egypt,  xxv,  256;  attacks  by,  28;  contact 
of,  with  highlanders,  13;  defeat  of, 
28-29;  relations  with,  262 
Egyptian  language,  6 
elections:  of  1952,  46;  of  1987,  65;  of 

1992,  xxix-xxx;  of  1993,  xxxiii 
electric  power:  distribution  of,  191;  ex- 
panded, 35;  geothermal,  190-91,  192; 
hydroelectric,  73,  190;  production,  190; 
use  of,  191;  under  villagization,  85,  86 
ELF.  See  Eritrean  Liberation  Front 
elite:  background  of,  44;  killed  in  Red 
Terror,  88;  political  power  of,  44-45; 
reform  desired  by,  44,  51 


391 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


ELM.  See  Eritrean  Liberation  Movement 
ELPA.  See  Ethiopian  Light  and  Power 
Authority 

EMALEDEH.  See  Union  of  Ethiopian 
Marxist-Leninist  Organizations 

emigration:  of  educated  people,  88 

emperor(s):  armed  forces  under,  271;  bat- 
tle under,  271-72;  court,  272 

Endalkatchew  Mekonnen,  52,  54;  exe- 
cuted, 56 

energy  resources,  190-92;  imports  of, 

202;  potential,  190;  traditional,  192 
English:  as  language  of  broadcasting,  200 
ensete  (false  banana),  93;  cultivation  of, 
97,  98 

environment:  damage  to,  86 

EPDM.  See  Ethiopian  People's  Demo- 
cratic Movement 

EPLA.  See  Eritrean  People's  Liberation 
Army 

EPLF.  See  Eritrean  People's  Liberation 
Front 

EPRA.  See  Ethiopian  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Army 

EPRDF.  See  Ethiopian  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Democratic  Front 

EPRP.  See  Ethiopian  People's  Revolu- 
tionary Party 

Era  of  the  Princes.  See  Zemene  Mesafint 

ERESA.  See  Eritrean  Region  Electricity 
Supply  Agency 

Eritrea,  8,  38,  45,  86;  administrative 
subregions  in,  242;  annexed  by  Ethio- 
pia, 5;  attempts  to  secede,  90;  con- 
stitution referendum  in  (1987),  216; 
demands  for  self-determination,  235, 
255;  drought  in,  89;  earthquakes  in,  77; 
etymology  of,  36;  European  attempts  to 
colonize,  4;  famine  relief  in,  230;  gov- 
ernment defeated  in,  64-65;  granted 
autonomy,  65,  102,  223,  242;  indepen- 
dence of,  xxxiii-xxxiv,  264,  307;  as 
Italian  colony,  31,  36,  273;  labor  union 
in,  161;  land  tenure  in,  167,  168;  mar- 
tial law  in,  240;  membership  of,  in 
Lome  Convention,  xxxiv;  membership 
of,  in  Organization  of  African  Unity, 
xxxiv;  membership  of,  in  United  Na- 
tions, xxxiv;  Muslims  in,  103;  popula- 
tion of,  xxxvi;  postwar  disposition  of, 
46;  as  province  of  Ethiopia,  47;  requests 
to  annex,  41,  44;  schools  in,  xxxiii,  130, 
131;  soil  erosion  in,  166;  state  of  emer- 


gency declared  in,  242;  United  Nations 
plan  to  join  with  Ethiopia,  46 

Eritrea,  Government  of,  xxxiv 

Eritrean  Assembly,  46,  47 

Eritrean  insurgency,  xxvi,  5,  46-48, 
60-62,  87,  90,  101,  239-44,  269,  297, 
301-7;  Arab  support  for,  103;  disagree- 
ments within,  241;  government  defeats 
in,  302-3,  304,  305-6,  307;  govern- 
ment victories  in,  302,  303;  under  Haile 
Selassie,  240;  under  Mengistu,  240-44; 
military  campaign  against,  87,  88,  276; 
Sudanese  support  for,  261 

Eritrean  Liberation  Front  (ELF),  60, 
241,  300;  attempts  to  co-opt,  240; 
founded,  47,  239-40,  302;  goals  of, 
239;  growth  of,  47;  guerrilla  activities 
of,  240;  internal  disputes,  240;  split 
of,  with  Eritrean  People's  Liberation 
Front,  243-44,  302;  support  for,  47, 
240;  troop  strength  of,  302 

Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Central  Com- 
mand, 242 

Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Popular  Liber- 
ation Front,  48,  241 

Eritrean  Liberation  Front-Revolutionary 
Council  302,  304 

Eritrean  Liberation  Movement  (ELM), 
241;  founded,  239 

Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Army 
(EPLA),  241 

Eritrean  People's  Liberation  Front  (EPLF), 

xxvi,  60,  210,  233,  239,  241-44,  280, 

301,  302,  307;  call  by,  for  recognition 
of  independence,  304;  Central  Com- 
mittee, xxxiv,  241;  congresses  of,  241, 
242;  cooperation  of,  with  Tigray  Peo- 
ple's Liberation  Front,  60;  defeats  of, 

302,  303;  image  of,  48;  members  of,  47, 
48,  239;  materiel  captured  by,  303, 
306;  military  assistance  by,  to  Tigray 
People's  Liberation  Front,  245,  306; 
military  campaigns  against,  302-4; 
military  campaigns  of,  238;  military 
training  of,  300;  organization  of,  241; 
peace  talks,  250-52,  263;  Political 
Bureau,  241 ;  relief  services  attacked  by, 
89;  rift  of,  with  Eritrean  Liberation 
Front  groups,  243-44,  302;  successes  of, 

xxvii,  89,  197-98,  242,  303,  304,  305-6, 
307;  support  for,  239,  241;  territory  con- 
trolled by,  216;  troop  strength  of,  302, 
305 


392 


Index 


Eritrean  Region  Electricity  Supply  Agency 
(ERESA),  191 

Eritrean  Relief  Association,  89;  food  con- 
voys of,  89 

ESR.  See  Education  Sector  Review 

Ethio-Nippon  Mining  Share  Company, 
193 

Ethiopia:  etymology  of,  9 

Ethiopia,  People's  Democratic  Republic 
of  (PDRE)  {see  also  Derg):  209,  214, 
216;  collapse  of,  263;  constitution  of, 
214,  216-18;  Council  of  Ministers, 
220-21;  Council  of  State,  218-19;  for- 
eign policy  toward  Israel,  292;  judicial 
system,  221-22;  National  Shengo  (Na- 
tional Assembly),  218;  presidency, 
219-20;  proclaimed,  65,  216;  referen- 
dum for,  215-16 

Ethiopia-Kenya  Border  Administration 
Commission,  259-60 

Ethiopian  Air  Lines  (EAL),  198-99,  204; 
aircraft  of,  199;  plans  to  expand,  199; 
reputation  of,  198-99;  service  to,  198 

Ethiopian  Democratic  Officers'  Revolu- 
tionary Movement,  308 

Ethiopian  Democratic  Union  (EDU), 
238-39,  244,  245 

Ethiopian  Evangelical  Church  Mekane 
Yesus,  125-26 

Ethiopian  Forestry  Action  Plan  (EFAP), 
184-85 

Ethiopian  Herald  (newspaper),  253 
Ethiopian  Insurance  Corporation,  155-56 
Ethiopian  Investment  Corporation,  188 
Ethiopian  Light  and  Power  Authority 

(ELPA),  191 
Ethiopian  News  Agency,  329 
Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church,  1 16-20;  at- 
tempts to  reform,  27-28;  bishoprics 
created  in,  42-43;  Church  Council  of, 
117;  community  in  Jerusalem,  21;  con- 
version of,  93,  94;  disestablished,  103, 
115-16,  217;  doctrinal  quarrel  of,  with 
Jesuits,  23,  24;  doctrine  of,  119;  edu- 
cation by,  126;  emphasis  on  Judaic 
roots,  13;  Episcopal  Synod  of,  117;  es- 
tablished, 3,  9-10;  ethnic  groups  in, 
116;  faith  and  practice,  119-20;  fast 
days,  119,  179;  under  Haile  Selassie, 
43,  103;  headquarters  of,  117;  holy 
days,  119;  isolation  of,  11,  12;  land  held 
by,  31,  108,  167,  168;  land  tax  on,  43; 
Lij  Iyasu  excommunicated  by,  33; 


members  of,  96,  98;  monastic  orders  of, 
23;  organization  of,  117-19,  120;  patri- 
arch of,  11,  21,  42,  56,  117;  percentage 
of  population  practicing,  72,  116;  re- 
form in,  42;  reorganized,  15,  22;  ritu- 
als of,  119;  saint's  days,  119;  spirits  in, 
119-20;  as  state  religion,  72,  103,  115, 
124 

Ethiopian  People's  Democratic  Move- 
ment (EPDM),  234,  282,  308;  alliance 
of,  with  Tigray  People's  Liberation 
Front,  246,  252;  members  of,  246 
Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Army 

(EPRA),  238 
Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Dem- 
ocratic Front  (EPRDF),  210,  282; 
formed,  308;  goals  of,  246;  members 
of,  308;  military  actions  of,  246,  252- 
53;  peace  talks  with,  263;  relations  of, 
with  Oromo  Liberation  Front,  311;  role 
in  National  Conference,  xxvii 
Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary  Party 
(EPRP),  xxxii-xxxiii,  56,  239,  245, 
249;  agitation  by,  58,  236,  238;  debate 
with  MEISON,  236;  members  of,  236; 
victims  of  Red  Terror,  58-59,  237 
Ethiopian  Plateau.  See  highlands 
Ethiopian  Police  College,  315,  318 
Ethiopian  Pulses  and  Oilseeds  Corpora- 
tion, 177 
Ethiopian  Road  Authority,  194 
Ethiopian  Workers  Commission,  161 
Ethiopia  Soldiers'  Movement,  287 
Ethiopia  Tikdem,  54,  236 
Ethiopia  Trade  Union  (ETU),  161 
Ethio-Semitic  language  family,  91-94 
ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups):  diversity  in,  105;  geographic 
distribution  of,  100-101;  marriage  be- 
tween, 100;  relations  among,  100-105; 
and  religion,  71;  in  Transitional  Gov- 
ernment, xxviii:  in  Workers'  Party  of 
Ethiopia,  214 
ETU.  See  Ethiopia  Trade  Union 
Europe,  Eastern:  medical  assistance  from, 

140;  military  aid  from,  238 
European  Development  Fund,  258 
European  Community  (EC):  agricultural 
assistance  from,  183;  educational  as- 
sistance from,  135;  financial  assistance 
from,  xxx,  203,  258;  technical  as- 
sistance from,  194 
European  Investment  Bank,  198 


393 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


evil  eye,  120 

exports  {see  also  under  individual  products), 
200-201,  204;  agricultural,  162,  177- 
78,  200;  British  control  of,  41;  of  coffee, 
146,  176,  200,  203;  growth  in,  148;  to 
Japan,  201;  of  oilseeds,  179,  201,  203; 
as  percentage  of  gross  domestic  prod- 
uct, 201;  of  pulses,  201,  203;  to  Soviet 
Union,  201;  taxes  on,  154;  to  United 
States,  201;  value  of,  200-201,  202;  to 
West  Germany,  201 

Ezana  (king),  9;  converted  to  Christian- 
ity, 10 


Falasha  people.  See  Beta  Israel  people 
famine,  xxvi,  5,  71,  83,  137,  201,  204, 
210,  265;  as  cause  of  death,  80,  163, 
230;  demonstrations  against,  160;  pol- 
itics of,  230-32;  refugees  from,  88; 
relief,  150,  230-32;  victims,  150,  230 
famine  of  1973-74,  51,  52,  83,  87;  casual- 
ties of,  87,  163;  demands  for  relief 
from,  52;  government  refusal  to  pro- 
vide relief  for,  163 

famine  of  1984-85,  200,  327;  inability  to 
provide  relief  for,  63-64,  194;  refugees 
from,  88-89,  90;  resettlement  during, 
232,  324;  spread  of,  63 

famine  of  1989,  328 

FAO.  See  United  Nations,  Food  and  Agri- 
culture Organization  of  the 

Fasiladas  (emperor),  22 

Fellowship  of  Evangelical  Believers,  125 

FER.  See  Franco-Ethiopian  Railroad 

Fetha  Nagast  (Law  of  Kings),  17,  320 

feudalism,  42,  71,  106-7,  163;  disman- 
tled, 129,  170,  222 

Fiche:  People's  Militia  in,  281 

Fikre-Selassie  Wogderes:  as  prime 
minister,  65,  220,  262 

Fincha  River  electric  plant,  190,  191 

fishermen's  cooperatives,  183 

fishery  associations,  183 

fishing,  182-83;  commercial,  183;  domes- 
tic market  for,  182;  exports,  183;  labor 
union  in,  161;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  182;  production, 
182,  183 

Fish  Production  and  Marketing  Corpo- 
ration (FPMC),  183 
Fisseha  Desta:  as  vice  president,  65 
Five-year  Plan,  First  (1957-61),  147,  148 


Five-Year  Plan,  Second  (1962-67),  147, 
148,  188 

Five-Year  Plan,  Third  (1968-73),  147-48 
food:  aid,  xxxiv,  180;  demand  for,  180; 
import  of,  180,  200;  production,  180; 
shortages,  185 
food  for  work  programs,  166,  235 
foreign  assistance,  149,  202-3,  269;  agri- 
cultural, 174;  from  Britain,  27;  from 
Canada,  xxx;  dependence  on,  145,  156; 
from  East  Germany,  135,  298;  for  edu- 
cation, 135;  from  European  Commu- 
nity, xxx,  135,  183,  203,  258,  298;  from 
Japan,  xxx;  per  capita,  203;  from 
Soviet  Union,  43,  253,  255,  296;  from 
Sweden,  43,  135;  from  United  States, 
xxx,  253;  from  World  Bank,  xxx,  193, 
194,  203,  258 
foreign  exchange,  187;  British  control  of, 

41;  earnings,  177;  lack  of,  150 
foreign  policy,  of  modern  Ethiopia  (see  also 
Derg;  Ethiopia,  People's  Democratic  Re- 
public of),  253-54;  under  constitution 
of  1987,  217,  220;  factors  determining, 
257;  under  imperial  governments,  47, 
253 

forestry,  183-85;  labor  union  in,  161; 
peasant  involvement  in,  172;  as  percent- 
age of  gross  domestic  product,  184; 
products,  184 

forests,  165;  area,  183;  fuel  from,  184; 
lumber  from,  183;  nationalized,  184 

Four  Power  Inquiry  Commission,  46 

FPMC .  See  Fish  Production  and  Market- 
ing Corporation 

France:  Arms  Traffic  Act  signed  by,  34; 
attempts  by,  to  colonize  Eritrea,  4;  at- 
tempts by,  to  gain  influence  in  Ethio- 
pia, 32;  interests  of,  31-32;  invasion  of 
Sudan  by,  32;  military  assistance  from, 
279;  recognition  by,  of  Italian  occupa- 
tion, 38;  Tripartite  Treaty  signed  by,  32 

frankincense,  184 

Franco-Ethiopian  Railroad  (FER),  194, 
197 

Free  Ethiopia  Soldiers'  Movement,  249, 
250 

French  language:  as  language  of  broad- 
casting, 200 

French  Somaliland,  49;  under  British 
military  administration,  40 

French  Territory  of  the  Afars  and  Issas, 
49 


394 


Index 


Gafat  people,  12 

Galawdewos  (emperor),  19;  Portuguese 

military  assistance  to,  19 
Galla.  See  Oromo  people 
Gambela:  resettlement  to,  174 
Gambela  People's  Liberation  Front,  xxxiii 
gas,  natural,  191;  exploration  for,  191; 

import  of,  191 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
Gedara,  8 

Ge'ez.  See  Gi'iz  language 
Gemu-Gofa  language,  7 
Gemu  people,  98 

Genale  River,  77;  as  potential  source  of 

hydroelectric  power,  190 
Genet  Military  School  {see  also  Holeta 

Military  Training  Center),  282,  284, 

285 

German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many): advisers  from,  257,  284;  edu- 
cation assistance  from,  135;  education 
in,  237;  materiel  from,  279,  299;  mili- 
tary agreements  with,  canceled,  270, 
299;  military  assistance,  298;  military 
training  by,  298,  299,  319;  peace  talks 
in,  298;  relations  with,  298;  security  ad- 
visers from,  228,  298 

Germany,  Federal  Republic  of  (West  Ger- 
many): assistance  from,  43;  exports  to, 
201;  imports  from,  202;  materiel  from, 
316 

Gideo  People's  Democratic  Organization, 

XXX 

Gi'iz  language,  8,  9;  literature  in,  15 
Girmame  Neway,  45 
glasnost,  210 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
Goba:  air  base,  280;  population  growth 
in,  82 

Gojam:  Amhara  expansion  into,  15;  eth- 
nic groups  in,  91,  100;  land  tenure  in, 
167;  loyal  ruler  established  in,  35;  no- 
bles of,  refusal  to  pay  land  tax,  42;  op- 
position to  land  reform  in,  58;  People's 
Militia  in,  281;  resettlement  to,  174, 
232;  revolt  in,  39;  schools  in,  131;  vil- 
lagization in,  234 

gold,  146,  192 

Gonder  city:  founding  and  capital,  22; 
population  growth  in,  83 

Gonder  region:  ethnic  groups  in,  91,  100; 
insurgency  in,  65;  resetdement  to,  174, 
232;  schools  in,  131;  soil  erosion  in, 


166;  villagization  in,  86 

Gonder  state,  22-24 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail,  66,  210,  257,  296 

government:  agriculture  under,  181; 
Haile  Selassie's  control  over  local,  43; 
labor  force  in,  157;  marketing  opera- 
tions, 185;  media  controlled  by,  253; 
as  occupation,  104;  repression,  160, 
288;  repression,  refugees  from,  88 

government  revenue:  coffee  as  percentage 
of,  176,  177 

government  spending:  on  agriculture, 
155,  163;  on  education,  129,  155;  on 
government  services,  155;  on  health, 
155 

Gran.  See  Ahmad  ibn  Ibrahim  al  Ghazi 
Grand  (Menelik's)  Palace,  323;  shootout 

at,  57,  310 
Graziani,  Rodolfo,  38;  assassination  at- 
tempt against,  38 
Greater  Ethiopia,  214,  240 
Greater  Somalia,  41,  247,  248,  301 
Great  Rift  Valley,  6,  72,  76;  geothermal 
energy  in,  192;  landholdings  in,  168; 
origins  of  humankind  in,  6;  population 
density  in,  79;  precipitation  in,  78 
Greek  language,  9 

Greeks:  investment  by,  188;  as  traders, 
146 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP):  agricul- 
ture, 162;  decline  in,  xxx,  165,  204;  of 
exports,  201;  fishing,  182;  forestry, 
184;  growth  in,  148,  149,  150;  livestock 
sector,  180;  manufacturing,  186;  min- 
ing, 192;  per  capita,  149;  taxes,  154; 
trade,  200 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  145;  edu- 
cation budget  as  percentage  of,  129; 
under  five-year  plans,  148 

gultegna,  107 

gult  rights,  31,  35,  107,  167;  holders  of,  42 

gum  arabic,  184 

Gumuz  people,  99-100 

Gurage  people,  12;  geographic  distribu- 
tion of,  93;  languages  of,  93;  occupa- 
tions of,  93;  religion  of,  93,  103,  116; 
social  organization  of,  93 

Habte  Giorgis,  33,  34 

Hadya:  Amhara  campaigns  against,  15 

Hadya-Libido  speakers,  96 

Haile  Fida,  56 


395 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Haile  Giorgis  Habte  Mariam,  249,  288 
Haile  Selassie  (emperor,  1930-74)  (see  also 
Tafari  Mekonnen),  xxv,  xxvi,  4-5,  91, 
129,  261;  armed  forces  under,  269,  273, 
275;  cabinet  under,  40;  concessions  of, 
to  Derg,  54;  control  by,  over  local  gov- 
ernment, 43;  crowned,  35;  death  of,  56; 
deposed,  54,  83;  economic  policy  of, 
147,  152;  Eritrean  insurgency  under, 
240;  Ethiopian  Orthodox  Church  under, 
42-43;  exiled,  xxvi,  37,  39;  land  tenure 
under,  35,  107;  missionaries  under, 
124;  modernization  under,  35,  147, 
209;  Ogaden  claimed  by,  49;  return 
from  exile,  40;  schools  established  by, 
35;  speech  by,  to  League  of  Nations, 
37-38 

Haile  Selassie  I  Military  Training  Center 
(see  also  Holeta  Military  Training  Cen- 
ter), 282,  283 

Haile  Selassie  I  University  (see  also  Addis 
Ababa  University),  126,  128;  closed, 
129 

Hailu  Balaw  of  Gojam  (ras):  revolt  led  by, 

35 

Harer,  17,  94;  conquest  of,  by  Menelik, 
49;  Egyptian  occupation  of,  28;  garri- 
son, 273;  health  care  in,  136 

Harerge:  land  distribution  in,  168;  Mus- 
lims in,  103;  population  growth  rate  in, 
81;  villagization  in,  86,  87,  88,  175,  233 

Hareri  people,  12,  94;  religious  affiliation 
of,  116 

Harer  Military  Academy,  274;  Cuban  in- 
structors in,  298;  graduates  of,  51 

Hassan,  Muhammad  Abdullah,  32,  33 

Haud,  49-50;  under  British  military  ad- 
ministration, 40;  insurgency  in,  248 

health,  135-40;  assistance,  foreign,  140; 
government  spending  on,  140,  155;  in- 
surance, 217;  public,  36,  140;  of  refu- 
gees, 88 

health  care:  administration,  72,  138;  com- 
munity, 139;  decentralization  of,  72, 
138;  distribution  of,  136,  229-30;  im- 
provements in,  229;  under  Italian  rule, 
36;  modern,  136;  provided  by  mission- 
aries, 136;  in  rural  areas,  72;  tradi- 
tional, 136;  vaccination,  137-38 

health  care  personnel,  139;  community, 
139;  physician-patient  ratio,  136,  140; 
shortage  of,  136,  140;  training  of,  136 

health  facilities,  136,  138-40;  construction 


of,  138;  distribution  of,  136,  139-40; 
organization  of,  139;  in  rural  areas, 
136;  under  villagization,  85,  86 

health  perspective  plan,  138 

health  policy,  72,  138 

Hibret  (newspaper),  253 

Highland  East  Cushitic  languages,  96-97 

highlanders:  contact  of,  with  Egypt,  13; 
gult  holders  in,  42;  influences  on,  26; 
languages  spoken  by,  91;  origins  of,  6; 
rivalry  of,  with  lowlanders,  3 

highlands,  72,  73-76;  agriculture  in,  165; 
colonized  by  Aksumites,  11-12;  isola- 
tion of,  3,  17,  102;  Italian  establishment 
in,  29;  jihad  in,  19;  languages  in,  6;  life- 
styles in,  79;  livestock  in,  181;  soil  types 
in,  165,  166 

highlands,  central:  ethnic  groups  in,  71; 
languages  in,  6 

highlands,  northern,  73;  ethnic  groups  in, 
71;  forests  in,  183;  landholdings  in, 
168;  land  reform  in,  111,  169;  land 
rights  system  in,  106,  167;  languages 
in,  6;  social  system  in,  71 

highlands,  southern,  49,  73;  forests  in, 
183;  landholdings  in,  108,  168;  land  re- 
form in,  111,  169;  land  tenure  in,  167; 
languages  in,  6;  northern  settlers  in, 
108;  social  stratification  in,  110 

HIV.  See  human  immunodeficiency  virus 

Hoben,  Allan,  106 

Holeta  Military  Training  Center  (see  also 
Genet  Military  School),  273,  283;  grad- 
uates of,  51 
Holy  Land,  12;  pilgrims  to,  21 
housing:  under  resettlement  program,  84; 

shortages,  83;  in  urban  areas,  83 
Housing  and  Savings  Bank,  156 
human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV), 
138 

human  rights  abuses,  xxxi,  218,  233,  235, 
237,  255,  293,  324,  326-29 

Humera:  cotton  plantations  in,  178;  de- 
velopment projects  in,  163 

Hungary:  advisers  from,  257 

HVA  company,  168 

IDA.  See  International  Development  As- 
sociation 

Ifat  sultanate,  17;  Amhara  campaigns 
against,  14,  15;  defeated,  17-18;  estab- 
lished, 11;  Oromo  in,  26;  support  for,  18 


396 


Index 


IGLF.  See  Isa  and  Gurgura  Liberation 
Front 

Ilubabor:  oil  discovered  in,  192;  resettle- 
ment to,  174,  232;  villagization  in,  86, 
234 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
Imperial  Bodyguard,  xxvi,  45,  51;  com- 
mander of,  arrested  by  Derg,  54;  as  fac- 
tion, 53;  formed,  273;  in  1960  coup,  45; 
number  of  personnel  in,  274;  trained 
by  Belgian  military  mission,  34,  282 
Imperial  Ethiopian  Police,  315-16 
imperial  family:  land  rights  of,  107,  108 
imperial  government,   48;  agriculture 
under,  163;  Amhara  dominance  under, 
101;  budget  process  under,  153;  defense 
budget  under,  154;  economy  under, 
151-52,  204;  foreign  investment  under, 
187-88;  foreign  policy  of,  254;  land  re- 
form under,  163;  land  tenure  under, 
35,  166;  language  policy  of,  103;  mem- 
bers of,  arrested  by  Derg,  54,  112; 
modernization  by,  35,  147,  209;  mu- 
nicipal guard,  315;  opposition  to,  48, 
244;  role  of,  46-47;  social  status  under, 
104;  social  system  under,  105-6;  wages 
under,  162 
Imperial  Highway  Authority,  194 
imports,  200,  202;  British  control  of,  41; 
of  food,  180,  200;  growth  in,  148,  203; 
taxes  on,  154;  value  of,  202 
income:  per  capita,  145 
India:  military  assistance  from,  274,  283 
industrial  development  policy,  187-90 
industry:  cottage  and  handicraft,  185; 
credit  for,  156;  electricity  for,  191;  im- 
pact of  social  unrest  on,  186;  invest- 
ment in,  153,  186,  188;  labor  force  in, 
157;  under  mixed  economy,  190;  na- 
tionalization of,  145,  186,  188,  189 
inflation,  51,  145;  rate  of,  156,  204 
Institute  for  the  Study  of  Ethiopian  Na- 
tionalities, 102,  214,  220 
insurance  sector:  nationalized,  57,  152, 
155 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Corporation 

internal  security,  276,  315-19;  budget  for, 
274;  conditions,  150 

International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross, 
231,  326 

International  Development  Association  (IDA), 
81;  education  assistance  from,  135 


International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  258 
International  Petroleum  Corporation,  191- 
92 

International  Reading  Association  Liter- 
acy Prize  (1980),  135 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Corporation  (Intelsat),  199 

investment,  189-90;  domestic,  188;  for- 
eign, 187-88,  189;  policy,  257;  private, 
153,  186,  189;  private,  ceiling  on,  152 

Investment  Code  (1988),  145 

Iraq:  relations  with,  262;  support  by,  for 
Eritrean  Liberation  Front,  47,  239 

Isa  and  Gurgura  Liberation  Front  (IGLF), 
xxxii 

Isa  people:  land  distribution  by,  168 

Islam,  95,  120-24;  basic  teachings  of, 
120-23;  conversions  to,  11,  26,  93,  94; 
distribution  of,  123;  effect  of  Oromo 
migrations  on,  20;  establishment  of, 
10-11,  120;  Ethiopian,  123-24;  impact 
of,  on  Aksumite  state,  10;  observance 
of,  123;  pillars  of,  121;  prayers  in,  121; 
scripture  of,  121;  spread  of,  3 ,  11,  115; 
worship  of  saints  in,  123 

Islam,  Shia,  123 

Islam,  Sufi,  123,  124 

Islam,  Sunni,  123 

Islamic  schools,  127 

Israel:  diplomatic  relations  with,  300-301; 
emigration  of  Beta  Israel  to,  97,  262; 
maintenance  agreement,  300;  materiel 
from,  301;  military  advisers  from,  274, 
300;  military  aid  from,  257,  262,  270, 
300-301;  military  training  by,  300, 
301,  316;  relations  with,  262 

Issaias  Afwerki,  xxvii,  264,  296,  306,  307; 
as  president  of  Eritrea,  xxxiv 

Italian  occupation  (1936-41),  36-39,  254, 
273;  attempt  to  eliminate,  39,  40-41; 
British  campaign  strategy  against,  39- 
40;  education  under,  127;  end  of,  146; 
executions  under,  38-39;  infrastructure 
improved  by,  146,  194;  under  Musso- 
lini, 36-39;  resistance  to,  38;  urban 
areas  under,  36,  82 

Italian  Somaliland,  38,  41,  49,  273 

Italo-Ethiopian  war  (1935-36),  xxvi,  39- 
40 

Italy  {see  also  Italian  occupation),  46;  Arms 
Traffic  Act  signed  by,  34;  assistance 
from,  43;  attacks  of,  on  Ethiopia,  4-5, 
29,  37,  273;  attempts  by,  to  colonize 


397 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Eritrea,  4,  273;  attempts  by,  to  gain  in- 
fluence in  Ethiopia,  32;  chemical  weap- 
ons used  by,  37,  273;  compensation  to, 
after  nationalization,  189;  defeated  at 
Adwa,  32;  defeated  at  Dogali,  29;  es- 
tablishment of  foothold  in  highlands, 
29;  Ethiopia  annexed  by,  37;  expansion 
by,  36-37;  imports  from,  202;  invasion 
of  Tigray  by,  32,  244;  investment  by, 
188;  medical  assistance  from,  140;  mili- 
tary training  in,  284;  occupation  of 
Eritrea  by,  31;  as  peace  talks  mediator, 
252;  relations  of,  with  Menelik,  29,  31, 
32;  relief  from,  230;  surrender  of,  40; 
Tripartite  Treaty  signed  by,  32 
Iyasu  I  (king,  1682-1706),  23 
Iyasu  II  (king,  1730-55),  23-24 
Iyasu,  Lij,  33;  conversion  to  Islam,  33; 
excommunicated,  33;  revolt  in  support 
of  (1932),  35 
Iyoas  (king,  1755-69),  24;  murdered,  24 


Japan:  compensation  to,  after  nationali- 
zation, 189;  exports  to,  201;  imports 
from,  202;  investment  by,  188 

Jerusalem:  Ethiopian  Orthodox  commu- 
nity in,  21 

Jesuits,  4;  doctrinal  quarrel  of,  with  Ethio- 
pian Orthodox  Church,  23,  24;  ex- 
pelled, 22 

Jews,  Ethiopian.  See  Beta  Israel  people 
jihad,  xxv;  of  Ahmad  ibn  Ibrahim  al 

Ghazi,  18-20;  Aksum  exempted  from, 

10;  as  Muslim  duty,  122 
Jijiga,  49;  air  base,  280;  in  Ogaden  War 

(1977-78)   59-60,   313;  population 

growth  in,  82 
Jima:  population  growth  in,  83 
Joint  Venture  Proclamation,  189 
judiciary,  221-22,  321;  under  Amhara, 

17;  under  Haile  Selassie,  44 
Junior  College  of  Commerce,  133 


Kagnew  Battalion,  274 
Kagnew  station,  255,  256,  291-92,  293 
Karamarda  Pass  (Marda  Pass),  313 
Kasa  Haylu  (see  also  Tewodros  II),  26-27; 

as  negus,  27 
Kasa  Mercha  (see  also  Yohannis  IV),  28; 

as  negusa  nagast,  28 
Kayla  people.  See  Beta  Israel  people 


kebeles,  57,  145,  185,  226-27,  237,  319; 
brutality  in,  114,  226;  conscription  by, 
288;  constitution  of  1987  publicized  by, 
63,  215;  defense  squads,  315,  318,  328; 
disreputability  of,  113;  health  care 
under,  138;  members  of,  113,  226;  or- 
ganized, 59,  71,  226,  318;  power  of,  65; 
public  schools  administered  by,  130; 
roles  of,  212,  226;  state  security  mis- 
sion of,  63;  structure  of,  226;  tribunals 
of,  222,  318,  321 

Kefa:  loyal  ruler  established  in,  35;  popu- 
lation growth  rate  in,  81;  religion  of, 
98;  resettlement  to,  174,  232;  schools 
in,  131;  villagization  in,  234 

Kefa-Mocha  language,  98 

Kefa  people,  31,  98 

Kembata  region:  invaded  by  Menelik,  31 

Kembata-Timbaro-Alaba  speakers,  96 

Kenya,  256;  border  with,  72;  Ethiopian 
refugees  in,  87;  as  peace  talks  media- 
tor, 252;  as  peace  talks  observer,  251 

Kereyu  people:  land  distribution  by,  168 

King's  African  Rifles,  282 

Koman  language  family,  91 

Konso  people,  95 

Korea,  Democratic  People's  Republic  of 
(North  Korea):  materiel  from,  279, 
299;  military  aid  from,  270,  299 

Korean  War:  troops  committed  to,  254, 
274 

Kunema  language  family,  91 
Kunema  people,  99,  101 
Kunfel  people,  97 

labor  force,  156-57;  in  agriculture,  85, 
162;  demonstrations  by,  112,  113;  pro- 
tests by,  160;  size  of,  157;  unskilled, 
112,  112 

Labor  Relations  Decree  (1962),  160 
labor  unions,  160-61;  organization  of,  51; 

restrictions  on,  51;  strikes  by,  113,  129, 

160 

Lake  Abaya,  198 
Lake  Chamo,  198 
Lake  Langano,  192 
lakes,  76,  77 
Lake  Tana,  32,  82,  198 
Labibela,  12;  stone  churches  in,  12 
Lamberz,  Werner,  298 
land:  arable,  165;  area,  165;  conserva- 
tion, 172;  grazing,  168;  nationalization 


398 


Index 


of,  104,  152,  169,  229;  use,  165-66 
landholdings:  by  Amhara,  71,  110;  by 
cognatic  descent  group,  106;  distribu- 
tion, 107,  108;  by  Ethiopian  Orthodox 
Church,  31,  108,  167,  168;  individual, 
170;  by  kin  group,  106;  as  marker  of 
social  status,  104,  110;  redistribution, 
111,  168,  170;  by  state,  106;  taxes,  42, 

50.  128:  tenancy,  71,  168 
landlord  class,  104;  eliminated,  111 
land  reform,  145,  163,  166-70;  desire  for, 

51,  110;  impact  of,  111,  169,  170;  op- 
position to,  58,  169;  proposals,  57; 
reactions  to,  31;  women  under,  114 

Land  Reform  Proclamation  (1975),  57, 
170,  224;  implementation  of,  57;  reset- 
tlement under,  174;  villagization  under, 
233 

land  rights  system  [see  also  gult  rights;  rist 
rights),  124;  consequences  of,  107-8; 
established,  31;  under  imperial  govern- 
ment, 106;  in  south,  107-8;  usufruct 
rights,  167 

land  tenure:  of  Amhara,  106;  under  im- 
perial government,  35,  166;  security  of, 
170;  types  of,  167 

language  policy,  103 

languages  (see  also  under  individual  lan- 
guages), 6-7,  91;  distribution  of,  91, 
103;  of  radiobroadcasts,  200 

Lasta,  8;  Aksumite  influence  in,  12;  eth- 
nic groups  in,  100;  and  Zagwe  kings, 
12-13 

law:  customary,  123-24,  315,  319;  mar- 
tial, 320;  sharia,  122,  319 

League  of  Nations,  5,  37;  arms  embargo 
by,  37;  Haile  Selassie's  speech  to, 
37-38;  membership  in,  34,  254 

Lebna  Dengel,  19,  28;  Portuguese  mili- 
tary assistance  to,  19 

legal  system,  319-22 

Lege  Dimbi  gold  mine,  192 

Lencho  Letta,  264 

Libya,  256;  aid  from,  294;  relations  with, 
262 

literacy,   134-35;  classes,  135;  among 

women,  115 
literacy  campaign,  72,  134,  229;  books 

for,  135;  languages  of,  134;  women  in, 

134 

literacy  rate,  44,  126,  134 
livestock,  7,  98,  146,  147,  165,  180-82, 
201;  cattle,  7,  181-82;  distribution  of, 


181;    economic   potential   of,  181; 
equines,  7,  182;  goats,  7,  182;  as  per- 
centage of  gross  domestic  product,  180; 
population,  181;  poultry,  182;  produc- 
tion, 181;  role  of,  181;  sheep,  182 
living  standards,  107;  in  agriculture,  147, 
149;  urban,  162;  under  villagization,  85 
Lome  Convention,  xxxiv,  203 
London  peace  talks,  251,  264 
Lowland  East  Cushitic  languages,  95 
lowlanders:  languages  spoken  by,  91; 

rivalry  of,  with  highlanders,  3 
lowlands,  72,  76,  102;  climate  in,  77;  land 
reform  in,  169;  land  tenure  in,  168;  life- 
styles in,  79;  population  density  in,  79; 
soil  types  in,  165-66 

MAAG.  See  United  States  Military  As- 
sistance Advisory  Group 
maderia  rights,  167-68 
Mahdi,  Sadiq  al,  261 
Mahdists,  29 
malaria,  165,  168 

MALERED.  See  Marxist- Leninist  Revo- 
lutionary Organization 

manufacturing,  111-12,  185-87;  capac- 
ity utilization  of,  186-87;  decline  in, 
150;  government  involvement  in,  188- 
89;  growth  in,  148,  150,  186;  of  handi- 
crafts, 185;  investment  in,  188;  labor 
union  in,  161;  nationalization  in,  149; 
as  percentage  of  gross  domestic  prod- 
uct, 186;  production,  186;  productivi- 
ty, 187 

Marda  Pass.  See  Karamarda  Pass 
maritime  trade:  ancient,  8,  10;  effect  of 

Islam  on,  11 
Markakis,  John,  106,  113-14,  116 
Marxist-Leninist  League  of  Tigray,  145 
Marxist- Leninist  Revolutionary  Organi- 
zation (MALERED),  238 
Mecha-Tulema,  247 
media,  253;  censorship  of,  329 
MEISON.      All-Ethiopia  Socialist  Move- 
ment 

Mekele:  airport,  89;  fall  of,  48 
Mekonnen  (ras),  32 

Meles  Zenawi,  xxv,  xxvi,  xxviii,  251,  264 

Mendebo  Mountains,  76 

Menelik  II  (king,  1889-1913),  xxv-xxvi, 
4,  25,  27,  28,  91,  101,  194;  accession 
of,  29,  71;  conquest  of  Harer  by,  49; 


399 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Council  of  Ministers  under,  32;  death 
of,  33;  education  under,  127;  expansion 
by,  30-31;  foreign  policy  of,  254;  in- 
vasion of  Sudan  by,  32;  land  held  by, 
in  south,  108;  land  rights  under,  31, 
107;  lineage  of,  28;  military  coopera- 
tion of,  with  Britain,  32;  as  negus,  28; 
opposition  to,  244;  reign  of,  29-33;  re- 
lations of,  with  Italy,  29,  31,  32;  rela- 
tions of,  with  Yohannis  IV,  28;  social 
system  under,  71;  stroke  of,  32,  33 

Mengesha  Seyoum  (ras),  244 

Mengesha  Yohannis  of  Tigray  (ras),  29, 
32 

mengist  rights,  167 

Mengistu  government,  xxvi:  armed  forces 
under,  269;  control  by,  of  population, 
86;  economy  under,  152-56,  187,  262; 
Eritrean  insurgency  under,  240-44;  fall 
of,  153,  262-65,  309;  language  policy 
of,  91,  103;  opposition  to,  72,  244,  256; 
political  struggles  within,  58-59;  rela- 
tions of,  with  Soviet  Union,  211,  253; 
religion  under,  103,  115;  reorganiza- 
tion of,  263;  resettiement  under,  71;  so- 
cial hierarchy  under,  104;  villagization 
under,  71 

Mengistu  Haile  Mariam,  xxv,  5,  56,  145, 
278,  290;  consolidation  of  power  by, 
58;  as  Derg  chairman,  53,  57;  fall  of, 
153,  262-65,  309;  as  first  vice  chairman 
of  Provisional  Military  Administrative 
Council,  56;  as  president,  65,  220; 
resignation  of,  263;  as  Workers'  Party 
of  Ethiopia  general  secretary,  213 

Mengistu  Mihret,  138 

Mengistu  Neway,  45 

Menz:  ethnic  groups  in,  101 

Mereb  River:  as  potential  source  of  hydro- 
electric power,  190 

Meroe,  9;  conquered  by  Aksumites,  9 

Meskerem  (journal),  253 

Metu:  population  growth  in,  82 

middle  class:  creation  of,  104-5;  educa- 
tion of,  104;  intermarriage  by,  105; 
under  Mengistu,  113;  occupations  of, 
105;  position  of,  113 

Middle  East:  relations  with,  262 

Mikael  Imru,  54 

Mikael  of  Welo  (ras  and  negus),  33 
Mikael  Sehul,  Ras,  24;  politcial  power  of, 
24 

military  assistance,  269,  291-301;  from 


Belgium,  34,  273,  282,  291;  from  Brit- 
ain, 40,  280,  282-83,  291;  from  China, 
43,  255,  257;  from  Cuba,  5,  60,  238, 
257,  259,  269,  270,  278,  279,  282,  284, 
285,  291,  296-98;  from  East  Germany, 
228,  257,  284,  291,  298-99;  from 
France,  279,  291;  from  Israel,  257,  262, 
270,  274,  291,  300-301;  from  North 
Korea,  270,  279,  291,  299;  from  Nor- 
way, 274,  280,  291;  from  Portugal,  4, 
19,  21,  291;  from  Soviet  Union,  5, 
59-60,  62,  238,  256-57,  260,  269-70, 
278,  279,  280,  282,  283,  284,  285,  291, 
294-96;  from  Sweden,  274,  279,  282, 
283,  291;  from  United  States,  43,  269, 
274,  291-94 

military  convention  of  1942,  40 

military  justice  system,  221 

military  officers:  benefits,  289;  ethnic 
composition,  290-91;  as  faction,  53; 
generational  rift  among,  289;  in  gov- 
ernment, 290;  land  grants  to,  50; 
purged,  250;  recruitment,  290;  train- 
ing, 284-85,  289-90 

military  personnel,  269;  in  Commission 
to  Organize  the  Party  of  the  Workers 
of  Ethiopia,  212,  213;  enlistment  of, 
290;  ethnic  composition,  290-91;  pay, 
290;  ratio  of  officers  to  enlisted,  289; 
training  of,  285 

military  tradition,  270-76 

military  training,  269,  282-85;  basic,  285; 
begun,  282;  foreign,  273,  274,  282-83, 
284;  in-service,  284-85;  technical,  285 

military  tribunals,  320,  321 

Minimum  Package  Program  (MPP),  163 

mining,  192-93;  growth  in,  148;  invest- 
ment in,  153;  labor  union  in,  161;  as 
percentage  of  gross  domestic  product, 
192 

Ministry  in  Charge  of  the  General  Plan, 
220 

Ministry  of  Agriculture,  134,  163,  183, 
220;  Extension  and  Project  Implemen- 
tation Department,  163;  Fisheries 
Resources  Development  Department, 
183;  food  for  work  programs  under, 
166;  reforestation  programs  under, 
184;  resettlement  under,  174 

Ministry  of  Coffee  and  Tea  Development, 
177,  220 

Ministry  of  Communications  and  Trans- 
port, 220 


400 


Index 


Ministry  of  Construction,  220 
Ministry  of  Culture  and  Sports  Affairs, 
220 

Ministry  of  Domestic  Trade,  220 
Ministry  of  Education  and  Fine  Arts,  127, 
135,  220 

Ministry  of  Finance,  153,  155,  220 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  220 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade,  220 
Ministry  of  Health,  220;  health  education 

under,  140;  nursing  schools  of,  140 
Ministry  of  Industry,  220 
Ministry  of  Information  and  National  Guid- 
ance, 220,  253 
Ministry  of  Interior,  277,  315-16 
Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs,  220,  289 
Ministry  of  Labor  and  Social  Affairs,  220 
Ministry  of  Law  and  Justice,  220,  221, 
222 

Ministry  of  Mines,  Energy,  and  Water 
Resources,  220 

Ministry  of  National  Defense,  220,  277 

Ministry  of  National  Resource  Develop- 
ment, 227 

Ministry  of  Planning,  148;  role  of,  151 

Ministry  of  State  Farms,  220 

Ministry  of  Urban  Development  and  Hous- 
ing, 220 

missionaries,  124-26;  activities  of,  125; 
education  under,  125,  127,  140;  health 
care  by,  136,  140;  restrictions  on,  124 

Mitchell  Cotts  company,  168 

Mitsiwa:  bombed,  89;  captured  by  Eritrean 
People's  Liberation  Front,  89;  under 
Italian  rule,  36;  naval  station,  198,  280; 
port  of,  89,  197 

Mobile  Emergency  Police  Force,  269,  315, 
317;  number  of  personnel  in,  276,  316 

Mocha  people,  98 

MPP.  See  Minimum  Package  Program 
Muhammad  (the  Prophet):  background 

of,  120-21;  death  of,  10;  teachings  of, 

121,  122 

Municipal  Technical  College,  133 
Muslims  (see  also  Islam),  98,  125;  duties 
of,  121;  in  Eritrean  Assembly,  46;  eth- 
nicity of,  71,  98;  geographic  distribu- 
tion of,  103;  Italian  favoritism  toward, 
39;  occupation  of,  103;  official  tolera- 
tion of,  115;  parity  of,  with  Christians, 
47;  as  percentage  of  population,  72, 
116;  pilgrimage  of,  121,  122;  rivalry  of, 
with  Christians,  3,  17,  18,  47 


Muslim  courts.  See  courts,  sharia 
Muslim  League,  47 

Mussolini,  Benito,  273;  invasion  by, 
36-39;  Italian  occupation  under,  36 
myrrh,  184 

Nairobi  peace  talks,  250,  306 
Nara  people,  99 

National  Assembly.  See  National  Shengo 
National  Assembly  (Eritrea,  1993),  xxxiv 
National  Bank  of  Ethiopia,  155,  189,  221; 

lending  strategies  of,  156;  operations 

controlled  by,  156 
National  Charter,  xxvii,  xxviii 
National  Conference,  xxvii,  xxviii 
National  Defense  and  Security  Council, 

278 

National  Economic  Council:  created,  147 

nationalization,  149;  of  banks,  57,  152, 
155;  of  businesses,  152;  compensation 
for,  189;  of  forestland,  184;  of  indus- 
try, 145,  186,  189;  of  insurance  firms, 
57,  152,  155;  of  land,  104,  145,  152, 
229;  reaction  to,  189;  of  schools,  130 

national  literacy  campaign,  134-35;  award 
for  achievement,  135;  languages  used 
in,  134;  and  women,  134 

National  Military  Service  Proclamation 
(1983),  282,  288 

National  Revolutionary  Development  Cam- 
paign, 224 

National  Revolutionary  Operations  Com- 
mand (NROC),  277;  powers  of,  277- 
78 

national  security,  277;  under  constitution 
of  1987,  217;  under  Haile  Selassie,  47; 
under  Mengistu,  277 

national  service:  in  Eritrea,  xxxiii,  xxxv; 
in  Ethiopia,  128 

National  Shengo  (National  Assembly), 
65,  218,  242,  250,  263;  defense  policy 
of,  277;  members  of,  218 

National  Villagization  Coordination  Com- 
mittee, 234 

National  Workers'  Control  Committee, 
218,  219 

Naval  College,  283,  284 

navy,  280-81 ;  advisers,  280;  bases,  280; 
marine  contingent,  276;  Norwegian  or- 
ganization of,  274;  number  of  person- 
nel in,  276;  training,  280 

Nega  Ayele,  113-14 


401 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


negus  (king),  27 

negusa  nagast  (king  of  kings),  9,  25;  power 
of,  15-17 

Netherlands:  compensation  to,  after  na- 
tionalization, 189;  investment  by,  188 

Nilo-Saharan  super-language  family,  91, 
99-100,  101 

Nilotic  peoples:  religion  among,  103 

Nimeiri,  Jaafar  an,  261 

nobility:  ascendancy  of,  22-24;  elimi- 
nated, 110;  land  held  by,  110;  mem- 
bers of,  arrested  by  Derg,  54;  political 
power  of,  44;  refusal  of,  to  pay  land  tax, 
42,  50 

nomads,  79,  86,  87,  105,  147,  165,  169 
Northern  Cushitic  languages,  98 
North  Korea.  See  Korea,  Democratic  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of 
Norway:  military  assistance  from,  274, 
280 

NROC.    See   National  Revolutionary 

Operations  Command 
Nuer  people,  99 
Nyerere,  Julius  K.,  250 

occupational  castes,  100 

Office  of  the  National  Council  for  Cen- 
tral Planning  (ONCCP),  220;  powers 
of,  152;  role  of,  152,  153 

Office  of  the  Prosecutor  General,  218,  222 

Ogaden,  37,  45;  attempts  to  secede,  90; 
under  British  military  administration, 
40;  captured  by  Western  Somali  Liber- 
ation Front,  59;  claimed  by  Haile  Selas- 
sie, 49;  climate  in,  77;  dispute  over,  73, 
258;  exploration  for  petroleum  in,  191; 
granted  autonomy,  65,  102,  223;  insur- 
gency in,  248;  invaded  by  Somalia, 
256,  313;  land  distribution  in,  168; 
population  density  in,  79;  precipitation 
in,  78;  rebellion  in  (1904),  32;  revolt 
of  1943  in,  41;  Somali  claim  to,  102, 
259 

Ogaden  insurgency,  62,  87,  101,  102 
Ogaden    National    Liberation  Front 

(ONLF),  249,  311 
Ogaden  War  (1977-78),  5,  59-60,  88, 
150,  249,  256,  259-60,  286,  313-15; 
agreement  to  end,  314-15;  air  force  in, 
280;  defense  spending  under,  155,  276; 
end  of,  260;  military  assistance  in,  5, 
269,  297;  refugees  from,  90,  260,  315; 


terrorist  acts  in,  197 
oil,  191;  discovered,  192;  exploration  for, 

191-92;  imported,  191,  202 
Old  Epigraphic  South  Arabic  script,  7 
OLF.  See  Oromo  Liberation  Front 
Omo  River,  77;  as  potential  source  of 

hydroelectric  power,  190 
Omotic  languages,  6,  91,  98-99 
ONCCP.  See  Office  of  the  National  Coun- 
cil for  Central  Planning 
ONLF.  See  Ogaden  National  Liberation 
Front 

OPDO.  See  Oromo  People's  Democratic 
Organization 

Operation  Bright  Star,  261 

Operation  Dula  Billisuma  Welkita,  309 

Operation  Moses,  262,  300 

Operation  Solomon,  262 

Operation  Tewodros,  309 

Operation  Wallelign,  309 

Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU), 
304,  314;  Eritrea  in,  xxxiv;  member- 
ship in,  43,  254;  as  peace  talks  observer, 
251 

Oromo  Independence  Movement  (1936), 
247 

Oromo  insurgency,  246-48;  assistance  to, 
247 

Oromo  language,  6,  103;  literacy  train- 
ing in,  134 

Oromo  Liberation  Front  (OLF),  xxxii, 
60,  94,  233,  239;  attempts  to  suppress, 
87;  congresses  of,  248,  311;  creation  of, 
310;  goals  of,  247;  military  campaigns 
of,  238,  311;  1992  elections,  role  in, 
xxx;  personnel  of,  247,  310;  relations 
of,  with  Ethiopian  People's  Revolution- 
ary Democratic  Front,  311;  successes 
of,  248;  support  of,  310;  weaknesses  in, 
310 

Oromo  migrations,  17,  20-21,  26,  94;  im- 
pact of,  20-21 

Oromo  people,  xxv,  4,  25,  71,  91,  260; 
adaptation  of,  20;  94;  conflicts  among, 
95;  demands  for  self-determination, 
235,  247;  diversity  among,  26;  expan- 
sions of,  20-21;  gada  (age-set)  system 
of  social  organization,  20;  geographic 
distribution  of,  94,  246;  influences  on, 
4;  intermarriage  of,  26;  Italian  favor- 
itism toward,  39;  landholdings  of,  110; 
military  ethos  of,  270;  military  role  of, 
23-24;  mixing  of,  with  Amhara,  20; 


402 


Index 


number  of,  94;  as  percentage  of  popu- 
lation, 246;  political  role  of,  24,  26; 
religion  of,  72,  103,  116,  124;  as  rul- 
ing class,  71;  social  system  of,  94-95 

Oromo  People's  Democratic  Organiza- 
tion (OPDO),  308,  311 

Orthodox  Church.  See  Ethiopian  Ortho- 
dox Church 

Osman  Salah  Sabbe,  47,  48,  241 

Ottoman  Empire:  attempts  by,  to  gain  in- 
fluence in  Ethiopia,  32;  relations  with, 
33 


pastoralists,  95,  98;  effect  of  Oromo  mi- 
grations on,  20;  land  distribution  by, 
168;  livestock  of,  181;  rivalry  of,  with 
agriculturalists,  3;  support  by,  for  Ifat 
sultanate,  18 

PDRE.  See  Ethiopia,  People's  Democratic 
Republic  of 

Peace  and  Stability  Committees  (PSCs), 
xxxi 

peace  negotiations,  249;  demands  in,  250, 
251-52;  Eritrean  People's  Liberation 
Front  and  government,  250-51,  263; 
Ethiopian  People's  Revolutionary 
Democratic  Front  and  government, 
263;  mediators  in,  250;  observers  in, 
251;  team  leaders,  250;  venues  for,  250, 
251 

peasant  associations,  57,  71,  145,  223-26, 
237,  319;  conscription  by,  288;  consti- 
tution of  1987  publicized  by,  63,  215; 
defense  squads,  315,  318;  economic 
powers  of,  111;  government  control  of, 
224;  health  care  under,  138;  land  redis- 
tribution by,  111,  170;  membership  of, 
172;  number  of,  224;  organized,  59, 
172,  224,  318;  power  of,  65;  public 
schools  administered  by,  130;  reforesta- 
tion by,  184;  responsibilities  of,  172, 
212,  224;  and  rural  development,  170- 
72;  self-government  of,  111;  soil  con- 
servation by,  166;  state  security  mission 
of,  63;  tax  collection  by,  154;  tribunals, 
222,  318,  321 

Peasant  Associations  Organization  and 
Consolidation  Proclamation  (1975), 
111 

peasants,  24,  87,  107;  coffee  produced  by, 
177;  death  of,  from  famine,  87;  demon- 
strations by,  51;  expectations  of,  229; 


farms  of,  84;  impact  of  villagization  on, 
86;  land  held  by,  110;  living  standards 
of,  147,  149;  pressured  to  form  collec- 
tives, 233;  resettlement  of,  64;  taxes  on, 
42,  106,  128;  as  tenants,  71,  107,  108- 
110;  Tigrayan,  48 

penal  code:  amended  special  (1981),  322; 
of  1930,  35,  319-20;  of  1958,  320;  of 
1976,  321,  322,  328 

People's  Militia,  277,  281-82;  conscrip- 
tion, 281;  established,  281;  materiel  of, 
281;  mission  of,  281,  282;  number  of 
personnel  in,  281,  282;  organization  of, 
282;  pay  and  benefits,  282,  286;  ten- 
sion of,  with  army,  286;  training  for, 
281 

People's  Protection  Brigades,  269,  299, 

315,  316,  317,  318-19,  321;  created, 
319;  role  of,  319 

Periplus  of  the  Erythrean  Sea,  8 
PGE.  See  Provisional  Government  of 
Eritrea 

Planning  Commission:  incompetence  in, 
148;  role  of,  151 

platinum,  146,  192 

PLF.  See  Popular  Liberation  Forces 

PMAC .  See  Provisional  Military  Adminis- 
trative Council 

PNDR.  See  Program  for  the  National 
Democratic  Revolution 

Poland:  advisers  from,  257 

police,  national,  315-18;  British  training 
for,  40,  315;  under  Derg,  316;  Eri- 
treans  in,  36;  under  Haile  Selassie,  47; 
local  control  over,  316;  mission  of,  317; 
number  of,  316,  317;  pay,  317;  recruit- 
ed, 316,  317,  318;  reorganized,  316; 
special  units  of,  316,  317;  training  of, 

316,  317,  318;  transportation,  318; 
weapons  of,  316,  317-18 

political  parties  (see  also  under  individual  par- 
ties): outlawed,  47,  236 

polytechnic  institute,  134 

POMOA.  See  Provisional  Office  for  Mass 
Organization  Affairs 

Popular  Liberation  Forces  (PLF):  formed, 
47 

population  (see  also  census  of  1984),  78-82; 
age  distribution  in,  79-80,  157;  chil- 
dren as  percentage  of,  157;  Christians 
as  percentage  of,  72;  density,  79;  dis- 
tribution of,  71,  79,  82-83;  government 
control  of,  86;  Muslims  as  percentage 


403 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


of,  72;  in  1984,  77,  156;  in  1990,  71, 
78;  Oromo  as  percentage  of,  246;  per- 
centage of,  in  rural  areas,  71,  78-79; 
percentage  of,  in  urban  areas,  82;  per- 
centage of,  using  electricity,  191;  popu- 
lation policy,  lack  of,  81;  projected,  71, 
81,  156;  rural,  71,  78-79,  102,  105; 
Tigray  as  percentage  of,  92;  urban,  105 
population  statistics:  birth  rate,  79,  81; 
child  mortality,  80;  death  rate,  80,  81; 
fertility  rate,  79;  growth  rate,  81-83, 
163,  164;  infant  mortality  rate,  80,  81; 
life  expectancy,  81;  male-female  ratio, 
83 

ports,  197-98 

Portugal:  attempts  to  convert  to  Catholi- 
cism by,  17;  diplomatic  relations  with, 
21;  military  assistance  by,  xxv,  4,  19, 
21 

president  of  Government  of  Eritrea,  xxxiv 

president  of  PDRE:  219-20;  appoint- 
ments by,  219;  as  commander  in  chief, 
220,  277;  election  of,  219;  powers  of, 
219;  term  of  office,  219 

president  of  Transitional  Government  of 
Ethiopia,  xxvii,  xxviii 

Presidential  Guard,  249,  301 

Prester  John,  21 

Prester  John  of  the  Indies,  The  (Alvarez),  22 
prices,  51,  53,  161-62;  controls  on,  156, 
173;  of  imports,  203;  increases  in,  162; 
retail,  index,  162;  systems  of,  185 
prisons,  322-26;  conditions  in,  322,  324, 
325,  327;  farms,. 323;  guards,  326;  in- 
dustries, 325-26;  juvenile,  323-24; 
regional,  325 
prisoners:  death  of,  56,  324;  political,  56, 
323,  324,  329;  torture  of,  218,  324,  326, 
327,  328 
privatization,  xxx 
Proclamation  No.  11  (1989),  187 
Proclamation  No.  25  (1981),  226 
Proclamation  No.  51  (1963),  188 
Proclamation  No.  71  (1975),  224 
Proclamation  No.  76  (1975),  152 
Proclamation  No.  109  (1977),  132 
Proclamation  No.  235  (1983),  189 
Proclamation  No.  242  (1966),  188 
Program  for  the  National  Democratic 
Revolution  (PNDR),  56,  210;  Eritrea 
under,  241;  promulgated,  102,  216, 
235,  236 

Protestantism:  number  of  followers  in 


population,  125;  percentage  of  follow- 
ers in  population,  125 

Provisional  Government  of  Eritrea  (PGE), 
xxvii,  xxxiii 

Provisional  Military  Administrative  Coun- 
cil (PMAC)  {see  also  Derg),  53,  54,  71, 
102,  278;  abolished,  65,  216;  armed 
forces  under,  269-70;  cooperatives  under, 
172;  economic  objectives  of,  145,  209; 
education  system  under,  72;  land  re- 
form under,  169;  nationalization  un- 
der, 186,  188;  popular  rejection  of,  210; 
religion  under,  116 

Provisional  Office  for  Mass  Organization 
Affairs  (POMOA),  56,  236,  278 

PSCs.  See  Peace  and  Stability  Committees 

public  administration,  147;  Eritreans  in, 
36 


qat,  xxxii 
Qimant  people,  97 
Quran,  121,  123 
Qwara,  26 


radio,  200;  censorship  of,  329 
railroads,  194-97 
Ramadan,  121-22 

Rapid  Deployment  Force  (RDF),  256, 

261 
ras,  25,  28 
ras-bitwoded,  25 
Ras  Dashen  Terara,  73 
Raya  people  (Oromo),  48 
RDF.  See  Rapid  Deployment  Force 
Recovery  and  Rehabilitation  Project  for 

Eritrea,  xxxv 
Red  Sea:  exploration  for  petroleum  in, 

191 

Red  Sea  Fishery  Resources  Development 

Project,  183 
Red  Star  campaigns,  286-87,  295-96, 

299 

Red  Terror  (1977-78),  58-59,  88,  226, 

237-38,  245,  249,  318,  326-27 
reforestation,  184 

refugees,  327;  causes  of,  88-89,  232,  235; 
in  Djibouti,  87,  89,  90;  Eritrean,  xxxv; 
health  problems  of,  88;  in  Kenya,  87; 
number  of,  88,  89,  90;  Somali,  88,  89; 
in  Somalia,  87,  88,  89;  in  Sudan,  87, 


404 


Index 


89,  90;  Sudanese,  xxxiii,  88,  90;  urban 
migration  by,  83 

regional  administration:  under  Haile  Selas- 
sie, 43-44;  after  1974,  222-23;  after 
1987,  223;  traditional,  15-17;  under 
Transitional  Government  of  Ethiopia, 
xxviii-xxix 

Regional  Health  Department,  139 

relief  agencies,  230,  328;  evacuation  of, 
305;  in  1990  famine,  89;  permanent 
offices  of,  231 

Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Commission 
(RRC),  174,  221,  230,  305 

Relief  Society  of  Tigray,  89;  food  convoys 
of,  89 

religion  (see  also  under  individual  sects),  93, 
115-26;  under  constitution  of  1987, 
217;  distribution  of,  in  population, 
71-72,  116;  equality  of,  72,  116;  and 
ethnicity,  71,  72;  importance  of,  103 

religion,  indigenous,  72,  97,  98,  115,  116, 
124;  distribution  of,  103 

resettlement,  xxvi,  71,  84,  174-76,  224, 
327;  deaths  caused  by,  328;  failure  of, 
232;  international  reaction  to,  71,  84, 
218,  233;  interrupted,  174;  motivation 
for,  84,  173,  175,  232;  politics  of, 
232-33;  problems  caused  by,  84,  164; 
refugees  from,  88,  232;  resistance  to, 
64,  175 

Revolutionary  Ethiopia  Women's  Associ- 
ation (REWA),  115,  211 

Revolutionary  Ethiopia  Youth  Associa- 
tion, 211 

Revolutionary  Flame.  See  Abyot  Seded 

Revolutionary  Operations  Coordinating 
Committee,  317,  321 

Revolutionary  Struggle  of  the  Ethiopian 
Masses  (EC  HA  AT),  237 

revolution  of  1974,  xxvi,  5,  51,  52,  54-55; 
impact  of,  on  social  structure,  111;  sup- 
port for,  52 

REWA.  See  Revolutionary  Ethiopia 
Women's  Association 

ristegna,  106 

rist  gult  rights,  107,  108;  abolished,  110 
rist  land,  106 

rist  rights,  31,  106,  110,  167,  169;  litiga- 
tion over,  106 

roads:  access  to,  194;  construction  of,  34, 
39,  146,  194;  maintenance  of,  194 

Romania:  military  agreements  with,  can- 
celed, 270 


Rome  peace  talks,  251-52 
RRC.  See  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Com- 
mission 

Rubattino  Shipping  Company,  29 
rural  areas:  birth  rate  in,  79;  development 
in,  163;  education  in,  72;  health  care 
in,  72,  136,  139;  labor  force  in,  157; 
life  expectancy  in,  81;  nationalization 
of  land  in,  104,  145,  152,  169,  229; 
police  in,  317;  population  in,  71,  78-79, 
102,  105;  social  system  in,  106-11; 
underemployment  in,  160;  unemploy- 
ment in,  157,  160;  women  in,  114 
Rural  Roads  Task  Force,  194 


Sabaean  language,  7 
Saho  language,  6 

Saho  people,  95;  religion  of,  96,  116;  so- 
cial system  of,  96 

Saint-Cyr  military  academy,  273,  282 

SALF.  See  Somali  Abo  Liberation  Front 

salt,  192-93;  export,  193;  production,  192 

samon  rights,  167 

Sassanian  Persians,  10,  11 

Saudi  Arabia:  relations  with,  262 

Save  the  Children  Fund,  327 

Savings  and  Mortgage  Corporation  of 
Ethiopia,  155 

schools:  closed  by  Derg,  58,  129;  closed 
by  Italian  occupation,  127;  construction 
of,  130;  crowding  of,  132;  curricula  of, 
72;  destruction  of,  132;  distribution  of, 
130,  131;  dropouts  from,  129;  estab- 
lished by  Haile  Selassie,  35;  number  of, 
130;  under  villagization,  85,  86 

schools,  primary:  enrollment,  131,  132; 
girls  in,  115;  number  of,  130 

schools,  public:  curriculum,  127,  130;  en- 
rollment, 127,  128,  132;  expanded, 
128;  number  of,  128 

schools,  secondary,  128;  enrollment,  132; 
girls  in,  115,  131;  number  of,  131; 
teachers  in,  132 

schools,  vocational,  128,  133-34;  number 
of,  134 

Semitic  languages,  6,  91 

Serto  Ader  (periodical),  253 

service  sector:  growth  in,  186;  labor  force 
in,  157;  labor  union  in,  161;  women  in, 
114 

Seventh-Day  Adventists,  126 
Seyoum  Mekonnen,  250 


405 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


Shack,  William  A.,  93 

Shashemene:  People's  Militia  in,  281; 
population  growth  in,  82 

Sheba,  Queen  of,  14,  17 

Shebele  River,  77;  as  potential  source  of 
hydroelectric  power,  190 

Shekatcho  people,  98 

shengos,  regional,  223 

Shewa:  Amhara  expansion  into,  15;  con- 
quered in  Islamic  jihad,  19;  ethnic 
groups  in,  91,  100;  insurgency  in,  65; 
labor  union  in,  161;  land  tenure  in, 
167;  livestock  in,  182;  loyal  ruler  estab- 
lished in,  35;  People's  Militia  in,  281; 
population  density  in,  79;  population 
growth  rate  in,  81;  resettlement  from, 
232;  resettlement  to,  174;  schools  in, 
131;  villagization  in,  175,  234 

Shewa  people,  48;  culture  of,  101 

Siad  Barre,  Mahammad,  59,  102,  247, 
248,  297 

Sidama  people,  12,  26,  96-97;  effect  of 
Oromo  migrations  on,  20;  religion  of, 
97,  103,  116;  resistance  by,  against 
Oromo,  21 

Sidamo:  insurgency  in,  60;  land  distribu- 
tion in,  168;  loyal  ruler  established  in, 
35;  population  growth  rate  in,  81;  vil- 
lagization in,  234 

slavery,  34,  100 

SMSC.  See  Supreme  Military  Strategic 

Committee 
SNA.  See  Somali  National  Army 
SNM.  See  Somali  National  Movement 
socialism,  constitution  based  on,  214;  de- 
velopment based  on,  210;  socialist  pro- 
gram, 56-58,  62 
social  order:  under  constitution  of  1987, 
216-17 

social  services,  217;  shortages  of,  83 
social  system,  105-6;  in  northern  high- 
lands, 71 

Societa  Elettrica  del'  Africa  Orientale,  191 

soil:  conditions,  166;  conservation  of,  166; 
erosion  of,  166;  types,  165-66 

Solomon  (king),  14,  17 

Solomonic  dynasty,  xxv,  3-4,  22,  27;  im- 
prisonment of  nonruling  members  of, 
14-15,  22;  internecine  conflict  in,  14; 
origins  of,  14,  17;  restoration  of,  13-15; 
succession  problems,  18 

Somalia,  256;  border  with,  72;  border  dis- 
pute with,  49-50,  73,  259;  Ethiopian 


refugees  in,  87,  88,  89;  irredentist  pol- 
icy of,  49,  50,  59,  94,  102,  103,  256, 
259;  land  demands  of,  5;  military  as- 
sistance of,  to  insurgents,  247;  refugees 
from,  88,  89;  relations  of,  with  Cuba, 
256;  relations  of,  with  Soviet  Union,  60, 
256;  religious  affiliation  of,  116;  support 
by,  for  insurgents,  248;  unification  of,  49 
Somali  Abo  Liberation  Front  (SALF),  60, 
248 

Somali  insurgency,  248-49,  311-15 
Somali  language,  6,  103;  as  language  of 

broadcasting,  200;  literacy  training  in, 

134 

Somali  National  Army  (SNA),  256,  260; 

supporting  Western  Somali  Liberation 

Front,  59,  313,  314 
Somali  National  Movement  (SNM),  88, 

260 

Somali  people,  17,  18,  91,  95-96;  de- 
mands for  self-determination,  235; 
Italian  favoritism  toward,  39;  land  dis- 
tribution by,  168;  number  of,  95;  so- 
cial organization  of,  95-96 

Somali  Youth  League  (SYL),  49;  demon- 
stration led  by,  49;  outiawed,  49 

South  Yemen.  See  Yemen,  People's  Dem- 
ocratic Republic  of 

Soviet  Union:  aid  from,  43,  253,  255, 
296;  constitution  of  1977,  63,  216;  debt 
to,  295;  democratic  reform  in,  5;  edu- 
cation in,  227,  237;  exports  to,  201, 
202;  imports  from,  202;  influence  of, 
on  armed  forces,  277;  materiel  acquired 
from,  59,  238,  256-57,  260,  278-79, 
293;  medical  assistance  from,  140;  mili- 
tary assistance  from,  xxvi,  5,  59-60,  62, 
238,  256-57,  260,  269,  278,  279,  280, 
285,  291,  294-96,  313,  314;  military 
faculty,  283,  284;  military  training  in, 
284;  naval  cooperation,  280-81;  refusal 
by,  to  recognize  Italian  occupation,  38; 
relations  of,  with  Somalia,  60,  256;  re- 
lations with,  65-66,  253;  scholarships 
from,  135;  security  advisers  from,  228; 
treaty  with,  294;  withdrawal  of  support 
by,  xxvi,  210,  257,  262,  263,  270,  296 

SPLA.  See  Sudanese  People's  Liberation 
Army 

State  Council  (Eritrea,  1993),  xxxiv 
state  farms,  172-74;  conversion  to,  173; 

investment  in,  173-74;  motives  for, 

173;  production,  174 


406 


Index 


students:  attack  by,  on  Derg,  55,  58; 
demonstrations  by,  51,  52,  112,  129; 
in  Development  Through  Cooperation 
Campaign,  58,  129-30,  172,  224;  killed 
in  Red  Terror,  88;  kinds  of,  130;  land 
reform  movement  led  by,  169;  number 
of,  130;  recruited  for  civil  service,  227; 
study  abroad  by,  35,  127 

Sudan,  256;  border  with,  72;  civil  war  in, 
261;  Ethiopian  refugees  in,  87,  88,  89, 
90;  gross  domestic  product,  149;  as 
peace  talks  observer,  251,  252;  refugees 
from,  xxxiii,  88,  90;  relations  with, 
260-61;  slave  raids  by,  100 

Sudanese  People's  Liberation  Army 
(SPLA),  88,  90,  260 

Sudan  Interior  Mission,  125 

Supreme  Court,  218;  appointment  of 
judges  to,  219;  responsibilities  of,  221; 
restructured,  221 

Supreme  Court  Council,  221 

Supreme  Military  Strategic  Committee 
(SMSC),  278 

Susenyos  (emperor),  22 

Sweden:  assistance  from,  43;  medical  as- 
sistance from,  140;  military  training  by, 
274,  279,  282,  283,  318;  relief  from, 
230 

Swedish   International  Development 
Authority,  258;  education  assistance 
from,  135 
SYL.  See  Somali  Youth  League 
Syria:  relations  with,  262;  support  by,  for 
Eritrean  Liberation  Front,  47,  239 


Taddesse  Tamrat,  19 

Tafari  Banti:  as  chairman  of  Provisional 

Military  Administrative  Council,  56; 

killed,  57 

Tafari  Mekonnen  {see  also  Haile  Selassie), 
33;  crowned  emperor,  35;  crowned 
negus,  34;  education  under,  34,  273; 
modernization  under,  34,  282 
Tatek:  People's  Militia  in,  281 
taxes:  under  Amhara,  17;  on  coffee,  154; 
collection  of,  154,  172;  under  Derg, 
154;  direct,  154;  for  education,  128-29; 
export,  154;  under  Haile  Selassie,  47, 
50,  154;  import,  154;  indirect,  154;  on 
land,  42,  50,  106,  128;  on  peasants,  42, 
106,  107,  128;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  154;  revenues  from, 
154;  structure  of,  154 


Taytu  (empress),  33 

teachers:  attack  by,  on  Derg,  58;  demon- 
strations by,  52;  Ethiopian,  133;  forced 
into  Development  Through  Coopera- 
tion Campaign,  129-30;  number  of, 
128,  132,  133;  shortage  of,  127,  128, 
132 

technical  assistance:  from  United  Nations, 
147;  from  United  States,  147;  from 
Yugoslavia,  147 

Tedla  Bairu,  47 

teff,  7,  173 

Tekeze  River,  77,  77;  as  potential  source 

of  hydroelectric  power,  190 
Tekla  Giorgis,  28 
Tekla  Haimanot  II  (king),  24,  117 
television,  199;  censorship  of,  329 
tenants,  106;  peasants  as,  71,  107,  108- 

10;  social  characteristics  of,  104 
Tendaho  Cotton  Plantation,  168,  178 
Territorial  Army,  51,  274,  316;  mutiny 

in,  52 

Tesfaye  Dinka,  263,  264 
Tesfaye  Gebre-Kidan,  263 
Teshome  G.  Wagaw,  126 
Tessema  (ras),  33 

Tewodros  II  (king,  1855-68),  xxv,  4, 
24-25,  27;  accomplishments  of,  27-28; 
goals  of,  27;  foreign  policy  of,  254;  ori- 
gins of,  27;  suicide  of,  27 

Tewoflos,  Abuna,  56,  117 

TGE.  See  Transitional  Government  of 
Ethiopia 

Tigre  language,  93,  97 

Tigray,  8,  24,  86;  conquered  in  Islamic 
jihad,  19;  constitution  referendum  in, 
216;  death  in,  from  famine,  87;  drought 
in,  89;  famine  in,  51;  famine  relief  in, 
230;  government  defeated  in,  64-65; 
granted  autonomy,  65,  102,  223;  Italian 
invasion  of,  32,  244;  labor  unions  in, 
161;  land  tenure  in,  167;  livestock  in, 
182;  military  ethos  of,  270;  nobles  of, 
42,  48;  opposition  to  land  reform  in,  58; 
opposition  to  Mengistu  by,  244;  popu- 
lation growth  rate  in,  81,  82;  resettle- 
ment from,  232;  revolt  of  1943  in,  41, 
244;  schools  in,  130;  soil  erosion  in, 
166;  state  of  emergency  declared  in,  242 

Tigray  insurgency,  xxvi,  5,  48,  60-62,  87, 
101,  244-46,  269,  301, 307-10; expense 
of,  276;  origins  of,  244;  support  for,  48 

Tigray  Liberation  Organization  (TLO): 


407 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


members  of,  killed,  245;  organized,  244 
Tigray  people,  4,  25,  71,  91,  101;  edu- 
cation of,  126;  influences  on,  4;  land- 
holdings  of,  110;  Muslim  attack  on,  4; 
political  power  of,  214;  religion  of,  72, 
92,  115,  116;  as  ruling  class,  71;  semi- 
pastoralists,  48;  slaves  held  by,  34;  so- 
cial organization  of,  93 
Tigray  People's  Liberation  Front  (TPLF), 
xxvi,  60,  84,  210,  233,  234,  239,  244- 
45,  280,  282,  301,  307-10;  administra- 
tion, 245;  alliance  with  Ethiopian  Peo- 
ple's Democratic  Movement,  246; 
Central  Committee,  307;  congresses  of, 
307,  308;  efforts  to  form  Ethiopian  Peo- 
ple's Revolutionary  Democratic  Front, 
245-46;  formed,  307;  goals  of,  244; 
materiel  captured  by,  309;  military  as- 
sistance by  Eritrean  People's  Liberation 
Front  to,  60,  245,  306,  308;  military 
campaigns  of,  238,  252-53,  308;  peace 
talks,  251-52,  308;  relief  services  at- 
tacked by,  89;  successes  of,  xxvii,  245; 
support  for,  245;  territory  controlled 
by,  216;  terrorism  by,  308 
Tigrinyalanguage,  47,  92,  103;  literacy 

training  in,  134 
TLO.  See  Tigray  Liberation  Organization 
TPLF.  See  Tigray  People's  Liberation 
Front 

trade  {see  also  balance  of  trade;  exports; 
imports):  ancient,  146;  attempts  to  im- 
prove, 200;  by  barter,  201;  deficit,  202; 
under  Derg,  58;  growth  in,  148;  under 
Haile  Selassie,  47;  impact  of,  26;  in- 
vestment in,  153;  as  occupation,  104, 
111,  112;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  200;  routes,  146 

traders,  1 12,  146;  fate  of,  1 12-13;  role  of, 
112-13 

Trade  Unions'  Organization  Proclama- 
tion (1982),  161 

Transitional  Government  of  Ethiopia 
(TGE),  xxv;  established,  xxvii,  264; 
problems  faced  by,  xxvii,  xxxvi,  265 

transportation,  193-99;  airports,  193, 
198-99;  development  of,  193;  growth 
in,  148;  under  Haile  Selassie,  47;  im- 
ports of,  202;  labor  union  in,  161;  loans 
for,  193;  railroads,  193,  194-97;  roads, 
34,  39,  146,  193-94,  197;  under  villagi- 
zation,  86 


Travels  to  Discover  the  Source  of  the  Nile 

(Bruce),  24 
Treaty  of  Wuchale  (1889),  31;  annuled, 

32 

Tripartite  Treaty,  32,  256,  261 

UNDP.  See  United  Nations  Development 

Programme 
unemployment,  83,  145,  157-60 
UNFPA.  See  United  Nations  Population 

Fund 

UNHCR.  See  United  Nations  High  Com- 
missioner for  Refugees 

UNICEF.  See  United  Nations  Children's 
Fund 

Union  of  Ethiopian  Marxist-Leninist  Or- 
ganizations (EMALEDEH),  59,  238 

United  Nations,  46,  73,  89,  304;  Eritrea 
in,  xxxiv;  membership  in,  43,  254; 
peacekeeping  forces,  274;  plan  to  as- 
sociate Eritrea  and  Ethiopia,  46 

United  Nations,  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  (FAO):  agricultural 
assistance  from,  183;  technical  as- 
sistance from,  147 

United  Nations  Children's  Fund 
(UNICEF):  medical  assistance  from, 
136,  140 

United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP),  192;  agricultural  assistance 
from,  183 

United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees  (UNHCR),  89;  repatriation 
program,  90 

United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA): 
medical  assistance  from,  140 

United  Nations  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  xxviii 

United  States,  305;  aid  from,  253;  com- 
pensation to,  after  nationalization,  189; 
economic  assistance  from,  43 ;  economic 
mission,  40;  exports  to,  201;  imports 
from,  202;  Kagnew  station  leased  by, 
255,  256,  291-92;  materiel  acquired 
from,  238,  279,  292-93;  military  as- 
sistance from,  43,  274,  292;  military 
training  in,  274,  292;  refusal  by,  to 
recognize  Italian  occupation,  38;  rela- 
tions with,  238,  253,  254,  256,  293-94; 
relief  from,  230;  technical  assistance 
from,  147,  194 

United  States  Agency  for  International 


408 


Index 


Development  (AID),  136,  258 
United  States  Department  of  State,  xxxi, 
293 

United  States-Ethiopian  Mutual  Defense 
Assistance  Agreement  (1953),  255,  279, 
292 

United  States  Foreign  Military  Sales 
credit  agreement,  293 

United  States  Military  Assistance  Advis- 
ory Group  (MAAG),  283,  292,  293 

United  States  Peace  Corps,  128 

University  of  Asmera,  128 

urban  areas:  birth  rate  in,  79,  81 ;  discon- 
tent in,  51;  diversity  in,  102-3;  growth 
of,  82-83;  under  Italian  rule,  36,  82; 
labor  force  in,  157,  162;  life  expectancy 
in,  81;  nationalization  of  land  in,  104, 
145,  229;  percentage  of  population  in, 
82;  police  in,  317;  population  growth 
in,  83;  population  in,  105;  school  en- 
rollment in,  131;  social  system  in, 
111-14;  underemployment  in,  160;  un- 
employment in,  160;  women  in,  114 

urban  dwellers'  associations.  See  kebeles 

urbanization,  82-83,  102,  111 

urban  migration,  83;  impact  of,  on 
schools,  132;  by  refugees,  83;  by 
women,  83 

utilities  sector,  190-91;  labor  union  in, 
161 


veterinary  stations,  181 

villagization,  xxvi,  71,  84-87,  174-76, 
224;  abandoned,  175;  begun,  84;  goals 
of,  85,  86-87,  175,  233,  234,  235; 
guidelines  for,  234;  international  reac- 
tion to,  71,  175;  motivation  for,  85, 
173;  number  of  people  in,  86,  87,  233; 
number  of  villages  in,  233,  234;  poli- 
tics of,  233-35;  problems  with,  64,  86, 
164,  175,  234;  refugees  from,  88, 
234-35;  resistance  to,  64,  86,  234,  309 

Voice  of  Ethiopia  (radiobroadcast),  200 

volcanoes,  76-77 


Wag:  Aksumite  influence  in,  12;  ethnic 
groups  in,  100 

wages,  161-62;  freeze  on,  156,  162;  mini- 
mum, 162;  policies  on,  161;  real,  162; 
for  women,  114-15 

Washington  peace  talks,  251 


water:  conservation,  172;  under  resettle- 
ment program,  84;  shortages,  83; 
under  villagization,  85,  86 

Waz  (Labor)  League,  237,  238 

Welamo  language,  6,  103;  literacy  train- 
ing in,  134 

Welamo  people,  98 

Welamo  region:  development  projects  in, 
163;  invaded  by  Menelik,  31 

Welega:  resettlement  to,  174,  232;  schools 
in,  131;  villagization  in,  234 

welfare,  135-40 

Welo:  death  in,  from  famine,  87;  ethnic 
groups  in,  91,  100;  famine  in,  51;  fam- 
ine relief  in,  230;  insurgency  in,  65; 
land  tenure  in,  166-67,  168;  livestock 
in,  182;  Muslims  in,  103;  opposition  to 
land  reform  in,  58;  People's  Militia  in, 
281;  population  growth  rate  in,  82; 
resettlement  from,  232;  schools  in,  131; 
soil  erosion  in,  166;  villagization  in,  86 

Welwel  incident  (1934),  37 

Western  Somali  Liberation  Front 
(WSLF),  50,  59,  62,  248,  249,  311; 
military  campaigns  of,  238,  314; 
Ogaden  captured  by,  59,  260;  troop 
strength  of,  313 

West  Germany.  See  Germany,  Federal 
Republic  of 

Weyane,  48,  101,  244 

White  Terror,  58,  237-38 

WHO.  See  World  Health  Organization 

Wingate,  Orde,  39 

Wolayta  language.  See  Welamo  language 
Wolayta  people.  See  Welamo  people 
women:  in  armed  forces,  271,  285;  dis- 
crimination against,  114;  education  of, 
115,  133;  employment  of,  114;  under 
land  reform,  114;  in  literacy  campaign, 
134;  physical  hardship  suffered  by,  114; 
in  police  force,  317;  roles  of,  114-15; 
rural,  114;  urban,  114;  urban  migra- 
tion by,  83;  wages  of,  114-14 
Wonji  Sugar  Plantation,  168 
Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia  (WPE),  71, 
111,  152,  211-14,  226-27, 263; cadres 
of,  224;  Central  Committee,  213,  216; 
congresses  of,  213;  in  constitution  of 
1987,   214;   ethnic  groups  in,  214; 
founded,  62,  170,  213,  228,  235;  insta- 
bility in,  250;  insurgencies  under,  243; 
peasants  in,  111;  policy  direction  un- 
der, 214;  Political  Bureau,  213;  relief 


409 


Ethiopia:  A  Country  Study 


forbidden  by,  231;  Soviet  encourage- 
ment of,  211;  villagization  under,  234; 
women  in,  115 

Working  People's  Control  Committee, 
211,  228 

World  Bank,  156,  165,  181,  185;  aid 

from,  193,  194,  203,  258 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO): 

medical  assistance  from,  136,  140 
World  War  I,  33 
World  War  II,  39-41 
WPE.  See  Workers'  Party  of  Ethiopia 
WSLF.  See  Western  Somali  Liberation 

Front 

Xamtanga  people,  97 

Yagba  Siyon,  14 
Yekatit  Quarterly  (periodical),  253 
Yekatit  '66  Ideological  School,  227 
Yekuno  Amlak,  14 

Yemen,  People's  Democratic  Republic  of 
(South  Yemen),  256 


Yohannis  I  (king,  1667-82),  22-23 
Yohannis  II  (king):  murdered,  24 
Yohannis  IV  (king,  1872-89),  xxv,  4,  25, 
28,  101;  foreign  policy  of,  254;  relations 
of,  with  Menelik,  28 
Yugoslavia:  assistance  from,  43;  techni- 
cal assistance  from,  147 
Yukalov,  Yuri,  296,  306 


Zagwe  dynasty,  xxv,  3,  11-13;  carved 
stone  churches  by,  3,  12;  Christianity 
of,  12 

Zaire,  274-75 

Zara  Yakob,  15 

Zawditu  (empress),  xxv,  xxvi,  28,  33; 

death  of,  34,  35 
Zeila,  port  of,  18 
Zela  Anbesa  militia  camp,  281 
zemecha.    See   Development  Through 

Cooperation  Campaign 
Zemene  Mesafint  (Era  of  the  Princes),  24, 

27;  emperors  during,  24;  Oromo  in, 

26;  warlords  during,  24 
Zoskales  (king),  8 


410 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

A  n  col  'a 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh. 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iracj 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

ll  amnnHi  a 

V>  CXI  HvJKJKAlCX 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

C  Eimcroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

C  zechoslo  vakia 

550-79 

JJU  JU 

Dominican  Republic  and 

oou— / o 

Nlongoha 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

411 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

0JU-lo4 

Singapore 

OOU-1 / 1 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

412 


PIN:  004195-000 


