area  handbook  series 

Finland 

a  country  study 


Finland 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Eric  Solsten 
and  Sandra  W.  Meditz 
Research  Completed 
December  1988 


On  the  cover:  A  lion  rampant,  the  Finnish  national  symbol 


Second  Edition,  1990;  First  Printing,  1990 

Copyright  ®1990  United  States  Government  as  represented  by 
the  Secretary  of  the  Army.  All  rights  reserved. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging  in  Publication  Data 


Finland:  A  Country  Study. 

Area  Handbook  series,  DA  Pam  550-167 
Research  completed  December  1988. 
Bibliography:  pp.  373-420. 
Includes  Index. 

1.  Finland.  I.  Solsten,  Eric,  1943-.  II.Meditz,  Sandra  W.,  1950-. 
III.  Federal  Research  Division.  Library  of  Congress.  IV.  Area 
Handbook  for  Finland.  V.  Series:  DA  Pam  550-167. 

DL1012.A74    1990  948.97— dc20  89-66315 

CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-167 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  GfTice 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  now  being 
prepared  by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress under  the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program.  The 
last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  cind  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Acting  Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgements 


While  accepting  full  responsibility  for  the  information  and  opin- 
ions expressed  in  this  study,  the  authors  are  grateful  to  numerous 
individuals  in  various  agencies  of  the  United  States  government 
and  in  international,  diplomatic,  and  private  organizations  in 
Washington  and  elsewhere  who  gave  of  their  time,  research  materi- 
2ils,  and  special  knowledge.  We  especisdly  want  to  thank  the  staff 
of  the  Embassy  of  Finland.  Specizd  thanks  must  go  to  Taru  Spie- 
gel, Onni  and  Lulu  Rauha,  and  Pirkko  Johnes  for  their  frequent 
aid  and  assistance. 

The  authors  also  want  to  thank  those  who  contributed  directly 
to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  include  Richard  F. 
Nyrop,  who  reviewed  all  drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  spon- 
soring agency;  Ruth  Nieland,  Gage  Ricard,  and  Sharon  Shultz, 
who  edited  the  chapters;  Martha  E.  Hopkins,  who  managed  edit- 
ing and  book  production;  and  Barbara  Edgerton,  J2inie  L.  Gilchrist, 
and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word  processing.  Carolyn  Hinton 
performed  the  final  prepublication  editorial  review,  and  Shirley 
Kessel  compiled  the  index.  Linda  Peterson  of  the  Library  of  Con- 
gress Printing  and  Processing  Section  performed  phototypesetting, 
under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto,  who  was  assisted  by  Sandra  K.  Cotugno  and 
Kimberly  A.  Lord,  provided  invaluable  graphics  support.  Stan- 
ley M.  Sciora  supplied  information  on  ranks  and  insignia.  Susan 
M.  Lender  wrote  the  section  on  geography  in  Chapter  2  and 
reviewed  the  map  drzifts,  which  were  prepared  by  Harriett  R.  Blood, 
Kimberly  A.  Lord,  cind  Greenhorne  and  O'Mara.  Wayne  Horn 
designed  the  illustrations  for  the  book's  cover  and  the  title  pages 
for  four  chapters.  Marty  Ittner  prepared  the  illustration  used  for 
the  title  page  of  Chapter  2. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword      iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    i 

Paul  Rood 

ORIGINS  OF  THE  FINNS    4 

THE  ERA  OF  SWEDISH  RULE,  c.  1150-1809    5 

Medieval  Society  and  Economy   7 

The  Kalmar  Union    9 

The  Reformation   10 

Finland  and  the  Swedish  Empire   12 

THE  RUSSIAN  GRAND  DUCHY  OF  FINLAND, 

1809-1917    16 

The  Rise  of  Finnish  Nationalism   17 

Social  and  Economic  Developments    20 

The  Era  of  Russiflcation    23 

INDEPENDENCE  AND  THE  INTERWAR  ERA, 

1917-39    26 

The  Finnish  Civil  War    26 

The  Establishment  of  Finnish  Democracy    33 

Finnish  Security  Policy  Between  the  Wars    39 

WORLD  WAR  II,  1939-45    41 

The  Winter  War    42 

The  Continuation  War    47 

The  Lapland  War    50 

The  Effects  of  the  War    52 

THE  POSTWAR  ERA   53 

The  Cold  War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948    53 

Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Pohtics, 

1948-66    57 

Finland  in  the  Era  of  Consensus,  1966-81    64 


vii 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   7i 

Eric  Solsten 

GEOGRAPHY    74 

Size,  External  Boundaries,  and  Geology    74 

Landform  Regions   75 

Climate    79 

DEMOGRAPHY    79 

External  Migration    81 

Internal  Migration   81 

Urbanization    84 

SOCIAL  STRUCTURE    84 

Occupational  and  Wage  Structure   85 

Class  Structure    87 

FAMILY  LIFE    90 

Marriage    90 

Status  of  Women   91 

MINORITY  GROUPS   93 

Lapps    94 

Swedish-speaking  Finns   96 

Gypsies    101 

Jewish  and  Muslim  Communities    102 

RELIGION    103 

Role  of  Religion    103 

Lutheran  Church  of  Finland    105 

Orthodox  Church  of  Finland   110 

Smaller  Registered  Churches   112 

EDUCATION   112 

Primary  and  Secondary  Education    113 

Higher  Education    116 

Adult  Education    118 

PUBLIC  WELFARE   118 

Growth  of  the  Social  Welfare  System    118 

Organization  of  the  Welfare  System    120 

Income  Security  Programs  Classified 

as  Social  Insurance    120 

Income  Security  Classified  as  Welfare   124 

Health  System   129 

LIVING  CONDITIONS   132 

Protection  of  the  Environment    133 

Housing   135 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy    139 

Paul  M.  Pitman  III 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   142 


Vlll 


Economic  Development    143 

Structure  of  the  Economy    147 

ROLE  OF  GOVERNMENT    150 

Macroeconomic  Policy   152 

Public  Finance   154 

HUMAN  RESOURCES   156 

Employment    156 

Industrial  Relations    158 

AGRICULTURE,  FORESTRY,  AND 

FISHERIES    160 

Agriculture    160 

Forestry    169 

Fisheries    172 

ENERGY  AND  MINERAL  RESOURCES    172 

Energy   172 

Minerals    176 

INDUSTRY    178 

Industrial  Policy    182 

Wood-Processing  Industries   183 

Metal  Industries    185 

Other  Industries    189 

SERVICES    191 

Banking  and  Finance   191 

Transportation  and  Communications    195 

Tourism   199 

FOREIGN  ECONOMIC  RELATIONS   199 

Foreign  Trade    200 

Finnish  Direct  Investment  Abroad    205 

Balance  of  Payments    206 

Regional  Economic  Integration    207 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   215 

Eric  Solsten 

CONSTITUTIONAL  FRAMEWORK    219 

Constitutional  Development    219 

The  Constitution    221 

GOVERNMENTAL  INSTITUTIONS    222 

Legislature   223 

President    229 

Council  of  State   232 

Legal  System    235 

Civil  Service    238 

Provincial  Administration    240 

Local  Administration   240 


ix 


Electoral  System    243 

Aland  Islands    245 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    246 

The  Social  Democratic  Party   248 

The  Center  Party    252 

The  National  Coalition  Party    254 

The  Communist  Party  of  Finland    255 

The  Swedish  People's  Party    258 

Smaller  Parties  and  the  Greens    259 

Interest  Groups    261 

The  Presidential  Election  of  1982  and  Koivisto's 

Presidency    263 

The  Parliamentary  Election  of  1983    264 

The  Parliamentary  Election  of  1987    267 

The  Presidential  Election  of  1988    268 

Mass  Media    269 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    275 

Neutrality    275 

Soviet  Union    278 

Nordic  Europe   282 

Western  Europe   284 

United  States   285 

United  Nations  and  the  Third  World    285 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    289 

Jean  R.  Tartter 

MILITARY  HERITAGE    293 

TREATY  COMMITMENTS  AFFECTING 

NATIONAL  SECURITY    296 

GEOSTRATEGIC  SITUATION    298 

CONCEPTS  OF  NATIONAL  SECURITY    302 

THE  ARMED  FORCES    305 

Command  Structure    307 

Army   308 

Navy    310 

Air  Force   312 

Conscription  and  Reserve  Duty   315 

Training  and  Education    318 

Uniforms  and  Insignia   319 

Conditions  of  Service   322 

DEFENSE  SPENDING   323 

THE  ARMED  FORCES  IN  NATIONAL  LIFE    324 

UNITED  NATIONS  PEACEKEEPING 

ACTIVITIES   326 


X 


SOURCES  OF  EQUIPMENT   327 

Arms  Acquisitions  from  Foreign  Suppliers    328 

Domestic  Arms  Production    329 

CIVIL  DEFENSE    330 

PUBLIC  ORDER  AND  SECURITY   332 

Police  Organization    332 

Central  Criminal  Police   335 

Mobile  Police    335 

Security  Police   335 

Police  Training    336 

Frontier  Guard    336 

CRIMINAL  JUSTICE  SYSTEM   338 

Principles  of  Criminal  Justice    338 

Criminal  Courts    340 

Incidence  of  Crime    342 

Sentencing  and  Punishment    342 

Drug  Enforcement   344 

Appendix  A.  Tables      347 

Appendix  B.  Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation, 
and  Mutual  Assistance  between  the  Republic 
of  Finland  and  the  Union  of  Soviet 

Socialist  Republics    371 

Bibliography    373 

Glossary    421 

Index    425 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Finland,  1988    xxii 

2  Historic2il  Regions    6 

3  Finland  to  1617    8 

4  Sweden-Finland,  Sixteenth  to  Eighteenth  Centuries   14 

5  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland,  1809-1917    18 

6  Republic  of  Finland,  1917-40   28 

7  Finland,  Adjustments  to  the  Frontier,  1940-44    46 

8  Topography  and  Drainage    78 

9  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1986    80 

10  Population  Density  by  Province,  1981    82 

11  Areas  Inhabited  by  Swedish- speaking  Finns  up  to  1910  ....  98 

12  Language  Areas  of  Finland,  1976    100 

13  Education  System,  1980s    114 

14  Structure  of  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP),  1950    148 


xi 


15  Structure  of  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP),  1986    149 

16  Agriculture  and  Forestry,  1985    168 

17  Minerals  and  Industries,  1985    180 

18  Transportation  System,  1986    196 

19  System  of  Government,  1988    224 

20  Organization  of  National  Defense,  1988    306 

21  Air  and  Coastal  Defenses,  1988    314 

22  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1987    320 

23  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1987    321 

24  Police  and  Frontier  Guard  Organization,  1988    334 


xii 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  com- 
pact and  objective  manner  the  dominant  social,  economic,  and  mili- 
tary aspects  of  contemporary  Finland.  Sources  of  information 
included  scholarly  books,  journals,  and  monographs,  official  reports 
of  governments  and  international  organizations,  numerous  peri- 
odicals, and  interviews  with  individuals  having  speci2il  competence 
in  Finnish  and  Nordic  affairs.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at 
the  end  of  the  book;  brief  comments  on  sources  recommended  for 
further  reading  appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  Measurements 
are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  table  is  provided  to 
assist  readers  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1 , 
Appendix  A).  A  glossary  is  2ilso  included. 

There  are  two  official  languages  in  Finland,  Finnish  and  Swed- 
ish. The  latter  language,  once  dominant,  is  now  spoken  as  a  first 
language  by  only  6  percent  of  Finland's  population.  For  this  rea- 
son, Finnish  place-names  are  used  throughout  this  volume.  An 
exception  was  made  only  when  referring  to  the  Aland  Islands  and 
to  their  capital,  Mariehamn,  where  the  Swedish  forms  are  preferred. 
In  cases  where  it  could  be  useful  for  a  reader  to  know  a  Swedish 
place-name,  it  has  been  provided  in  parentheses  after  the  Finnish 
place-name.  Table  2,  Appendix  A,  lists  the  Finnish  and  Swedish 
names  of  the  country's  twelve  provinces  and  of  several  dozen  other 
geographic  sites. 


xiii 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Finland 
Short  Form:  Finland 
Term  for  Citizens:  Finns 
Capital:  Helsinki 


XV 


Date  of  Independence:  December  6,  1917. 

Geography 

Size:  About  338,145  square  kilometers,  slightly  larger  than 
Missouri  and  Illinois  combined.  About  10  percent  of  area  made 
up  of  inland  water.  A  quarter  of  the  country  above  Arctic  Circle. 

Topography:  Four  natural  regions.  Archipelago  Finland  begins 
in  southwestern  coastal  waters  and  culminates  in  Aland  Islands. 
Coastal  Finland  a  band  of  clay  plains,  extending  from  Soviet 
to  Swedish  border.  Seldom  exceeding  width  of  100  kilometers, 
plains  slope  upward  to  central  plateau  that  forms  basis  of  inte- 
rior lake  district.  This  core  region  contains  more  than  55,000  lakes 
set  within  country's  densest  forests.  Above  central  plateau,  up- 
land Finland  extends  into  Lapland,  where  forests  gradually  yield 
to  harsh  climate.  Above  timber  line  are  barren  fells  and  numerous 
bogs.  Upland  Finland  crossed  by  country's  largest  and  longest 
rivers. 

Climate:  Gulf  Stream  and  North  Atlantic  Drift  Current  moder- 
ate temperatures  somewhat,  but  winter  still  lasts  up  to  seven  months 
in  north,  and  most  years  gulfs  of  Finland  and  Bothnia  freeze, 
making  icebreakers  necessary  for  shipping.  Long  days  in  sum- 
mer permit  farming  far  to  north.  Continental  weather  systems  can 
bring  quite  warm  summer  temperatures  and  severe  cold  spells 
in  winter. 

Society 

Population:  About  4.9  million  at  end  of  1985,  averaging  14.5 
inhabitants  per  square  kilometer.  Population  growth  0.5  percent 
per  year  during  1980-84  period.  About  60  percent  of  population 
lived  in  urban  municipalities  in  1980s. 

Language:  Two  official  languages;  Finnish  spoken  by  94  percent 
of  population;  Swedish  spoken  by  6  percent,  most  of  whom  live 
in  southwestern  and  western  coastal  areas  and  Aland  Islands. 

Religion:  Two  official  state  churches;  Lutheran  Church  of  Fin- 
land with  88.9  percent  of  population  as  members;  Orthodox  Church 
of  Finland  with  1.1  percent.  Constitutionally  guaranteed  freedom 
of  religion  permits  existence  of  severed  dozen  other  religions.  About 
7  percent  of  Finns  belong  to  no  religion. 

Education:  A  little  more  than  900,000  Finns  attended  schools  and 
institutions  of  higher  education  in  1985.  About  half  this  number, 
aged  seven  to  sixteen,  enrolled  in  obligatory  comprehensive  school 


XVI 


system.  Around  100,000  each  studied  at  academic  high  schools  and 
country's  twenty  university-level  facilities,  while  remainder  were 
at  multitude  of  institutions  that  provided  career  training  of  vary- 
ing levels  and  duration. 

Health  and  Welfare:  Legislation  guarantees  all  Finns  high-quality 
health  care  regardless  of  income.  Health  problems  resemble  those 
of  other  countries  of  Northern  Europe,  with  cardiovascular  dis- 
eases and  cancer  chief  causes  of  death.  In  mid-1980s,  Finland  had 
world's  lowest  infant  mortality  rate.  Welfare  and  social  security 
legislation  provide  family  and  unemployment  2illowances  and  dis- 
ability and  retirement  benefits. 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  US$70.5  billion  in  1986 
(US$14,388  per  capita).  Economy  grew  faster  than  other  Western 
industrialized  countries  throughout  1980s,  averaging  about  3.3  per- 
cent per  year  from  1980  to  1986. 

Agriculture  and  Forestry:  Below  8  percent  of  GDP  and  about 
10  percent  of  employment  in  1986,  but  sufficient  to  make  country 
self-sufficient  in  staple  foods  and  provide  raw  material  to  crucial 
wood-processing  industries. 

Industry:  Major  growth  sector,  contributing  nearly  35  percent  of 
GDP  and  32  percent  of  employment  in  1986.  Main  engine  of  post- 
war structural  change,  industry  faced  increasing  competition  in 
1980s  causing  restructuring  and  a  shift  to  high-technology  products. 

Services:  Largest  sector,  providing  nearly  58  percent  of  GDP  and 
about  57  percent  of  employment  in  1986.  Generally  labor-intensive 
and  uncompetitive,  but  banking,  engineering,  and  consulting 
showed  promise. 

Imports:  Raw  materials,  especially  fuels,  minerals,  and  chemicals, 
but  growing  share  of  foods  and  consumer  goods. 

Exports:  Primarily  industrial  goods,  especially  forestry  products 
and  metal  products;  growing  high- technology  exports. 

Major  Trade  Partners:  Soviet  Union  largest  single  trade  partner, 
but  West  European  countries  together  accounted  for  nearly  two- 
thirds  of  trade. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Despite  positive  trade  balance,  Finnish 
tourist  expenditures  abroad  and  debt  service  caused  continuing  cur- 
rent account  deficits  in  1980s. 


xvii 


General  Economic  Conditions:  Standard  of  living  high  despite 
difficult  environment.  Inflation  traditionally  exceeded  that  of  other 
industrialized  countries,  but  fell  below  4  percent  in  1986;  unem- 
ployment, at  about  6  percent  in  1987,  was  considered  Finland's 
most  serious  economic  problem. 

Exchange  Rate:  In  March  1988,  Finnish  mark  (Fmk)  4.08  =  US$1. 
Fully  convertible,  but  some  capital  controls  maintained  by  Bank 
of  Finland. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Railroads:  5,905  kilometers  (Russian  gauge — 1.524  meters)  in 
operation,  of  which  about  500  kilometers  multiple-track  and  1,445 
kilometers  electrified  in  1987.  Railroads  used  primarily  for  bulk 
commodities  because  of  growing  competition  from  trucking. 

Highways:  About  76,000  kilometers  in  1987  (including  43,000 
paved).  Another  30,000  kilometers  of  private,  state- subsidized 
roads. 

Inland  Waterways:  About  9,200  kilometers  of  floatways  used  by 
wood  industries  to  move  forest  products  downstream  to  process- 
ing centers  and  on  to  ports  for  export.  Another  6,100  kilometers 
of  internal  waterways  for  general  use,  including  about  70  kilome- 
ters of  canals. 

Ports:  Seven  major  ports,  many  minor  ports.  Most  ports  blocked 
by  ice  in  winter. 

Civil  Airports:  Helsinki  airport  handled  most  international  traffic; 
about  forty  smaller  airports  served  secondary  cities. 

Telecommunications:  Excellent  system  covering  most  cities; 
mobile  telephones  widely  used  in  rural  areas. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Constitution  Act  of  1919  basis  of  system  of  govern- 
ment both  parliamentary  2ind  presidential.  Division  of  power  among 
legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  branches  only  partial,  and  result- 
ing overlapping  of  competencies  ensures  that  authorities  act 
according  to  Constitution.  Supreme  power  rests  with  the  Finnish 
people,  who  elect  through  universal  suffrage  200-member  Edus- 
kunta,  country's  parliament.  This  body  ultimately  more  powerful 
than  president,  the  supreme  executive,  who  often  can  act  only 
through  Council  of  State,  or  cabinet,  whose  members  come  main- 
ly from  Eduskunta. 


xviii 


Politics:  As  many  as  a  dozen  parties  actively  articulate  wide  range 
of  political  viewpoints.  Smaller  number  of  parties,  socialist  and  non- 
socialist,  have  participated  in  cabinet  governments  in  the  postwar 
era.  All  parties  with  members  in  Eduskunta  receive  state  subsi- 
dies. Party  newspapers  also  enjoy  state  financiad  support. 

Legal  System:  Independent  judges  and  constitutional  guarantees 
protect  integrity  of  judicial  system  consisting  of  general  courts  that 
deal  with  civil  and  criminal  cases  and  administrative  courts  con- 
cerned with  appeals  against  decisions  of  government  agencies. 
General  courts  exist  at  three  levels:  local,  appeal,  and  Supreme 
Court;  administrative  courts  exist  at  provincial  and  Supreme 
Administrative  Court  levels.  Chancellor  of  justice,  Finland's  highest 
prosecutor,  and  parliamentary  ombudsman  charged  with  rectify- 
ing legal  injustice. 

Foreign  Relations:  Finland  follows  what  is  officially  termed  an 
active  and  peaceful  policy  of  neutrality.  Member  of  Nordic  Coun- 
cil, European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFT A),  Council  of  Europe, 
and  United  Nations  (UN). 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces  (1988):  Defense  Forces  consist  of  army  of  30,000 
troops  (22,300  conscripts),  navy  of  2,700  (1,300  conscripts),  and 
air  force  of  2,500  (1 ,300  conscripts).  In  time  of  crisis  or  hostilities, 
Fast  Deployment  Forces  of  250,000  could  be  mobilized  in  two  to 
three  days.  Full  mobilization  of  700,000  could  be  carried  out  in 
a  week.  Frontier  Guard  (Rajavartiolaitos— RVL)  of  4,500  (1 1 ,500 
on  mobilization)  would  come  under  military  command. 

Treaty  Commitments:  By  1947  Treaty  of  Paris,  active  Finnish 
armed  forces  limited  to  41,900  persons,  total  warship  tonnage  to 
10,000  tons,  and  combat  aircraft  to  60.  Offensive  weapons  such 
as  bombers  and  submarines  prohibited.  The  1948  Treaty  of  Friend- 
ship, Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance  (EC MA)  with  Soviet 
Union  commits  Finland,  with  Soviet  assistance  if  needed,  to  repel 
aggression  by  Germany  or  any  state  allied  to  it. 

Conscription  and  Reserves:  Over  90  percent  of  Finnish  men  per- 
form eight  months  of  military  service  at  age  twenty  (eleven  months 
for  officers  and  noncommissioned  officers  in  reserves).  Reserve 
obligation  continues  until  at  least  age  fifty.  Younger  reservists  sub- 
ject to  periodic  refresher  training. 

Standing  Forces:  In  1988  army  organized  into  7  light  infantry  and 
1  armored  brigade,  each  with  1,500  to  2,000  men  in  peacetime. 


xix 


plus  independent  infantry  battalions,  field  and  coast  artillery,  and 
antiaircraft  units.  In  wartime  would  consist  of  an  estimated  20  to 
25  brigades  at  full  strength  of  6,800  each,  plus  70  independent  light 
infantry  battalions  of  800  each,  and  other  specialized  units.  Navy 
has  two  corvettes,  eight  missile  boats,  fast  patrol  craft,  minelay- 
ers, and  minesweepers.  Air  Force  consists  of  sixty  fighters  organized 
into  three  squadrons,  forty-seven  jet  training- reconnaissance  air- 
craft convertible  to  attack  role,  and  small  fleet  of  transport  and  liai- 
son aircraft. 

Sources  of  Equipment:  Finland  produces  close  to  40  percent  of 
its  own  equipment,  including  light  arms,  artillery,  vehicles,  muni- 
tions, hulls,  and  light  aircraft.  Soviet  Union  supplies  about  half 
of  imports,  including  tanks  and  armored  vehicles,  missiles,  and 
MiG  aircraft.  Remainder  comes  from  West,  including  Sweden 
(fighter  aircraft  and  missiles),  Britain  (jet  trainers),  France  (radar 
and  missiles),  and  United  States  (electronics  and  antitank  missiles). 

Defense  Expenditures:  In  1988  defense  budget  of  US$1.47  bil- 
lion was  about  1.5  percent  of  gross  national  product  and  5.5  per- 
cent of  total  government  budget.  Defense  spending  low  relative 
to  other  countries  of  Europe. 

Internal  Security:  Police  cire  part  of  national  government  aind  oper- 
ate under  control  of  Ministry  of  Interior.  Loc2d  police,  supervised 
by  provincial  authorities  and  organized  into  town  police  depart- 
ments cind  rural  police  districts,  manage  routine  police  work.  Oper- 
ating at  national  level  and  assisting  local  police  when  necessary  are 
Mobile  Police  (Liikkuva  Poliisi — LP),  responsible  for  traffic  safe- 
ty and  riot  control;  Security  Police  (Suojelupoliisi — SUPO),  charged 
with  preventing  subversion  and  espionage;  and  Central  Criminal 
Police  (Keskusrikospoliisi — KRP),  able  to  mount  extensive  inves- 
tigations, with  advanced  technical  means  when  required,  and  main- 
tain centralized  criminal  files  and  contacts  with  foreign  police  forces. 
RVL  and  Coast  Guard,  also  under  Ministry  of  Interior,  responsi- 
ble for  security  in  border  areas  and  have  military  role  in  wartime. 


XX 


-•-  International  boundary 
-  -  Provincial  boundary 
®  National  capital 
•  Provincial  capital 
0     50    100  Kilometers 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Finland,  1988 


xxii 


Introduction 


FINLAND  HAS  BEEN  THE  SITE  of  human  habitation  since 
the  last  ice  age  ended  10,000  years  ago.  When  the  first  Swedish- 
speaking  settlers  arrived  in  the  ninth  century,  the  country  was  home 
to  people  speaking  languages  belonging  to  the  distinctive  Finno- 
Ugric  linguistic  group,  unrelated  to  the  more  prevalent  Indo- 
European  language  family.  The  first  dates  in  Finnish  history  are 
connected  with  the  Swedish  crusade  of  the  1150s  that,  according 
to  legend,  aimed  at  conquering  the  "heathen"  Finns  and  converting 
them  to  Christianity.  There  was,  however,  no  Swedish  conquest 
of  Finland.  The  bodies  of  water  that  lay  between  Finland  and 
Sweden,  rather  than  making  them  enemies  or  separating  them, 
brought  them  together.  Trade  and  setdement  between  the  two  areas 
intensified,  and  a  political  entity,  the  dual  kingdom  of  Sweden- 
Finland,  gradually  evolved  (see  The  Era  of  Swedish  Rule,  c. 
1150-1809,  ch.  1). 

During  the  seven  centuries  of  Swedish  rule,  Finland  was  brought 
more  and  more  into  the  kingdom's  administrative  system.  Finland's 
ruling  elite,  invariably  drawn  from  the  country's  Swedish- speaking 
inhabitants,  traveled  to  Stockholm  to  participate  in  the  Diet  of  the 
Four  Estates  and  to  help  manage  the  kingdom's  affairs.  Swedish 
became  the  language  of  law  and  commerce  in  Finland;  Finnish  was 
spoken  by  the  peasantry  living  away  from  the  coasts.  The  clergy 
(Lutheran  after  the  Protestant  Reformation),  who  needed  to  com- 
municate with  their  parishioners,  were  the  only  members  of  the 
educated  classes  likely  to  know  Finnish  well. 

Swedish  rule  was  benevolent.  Sweden  and  Finland  were  not 
separate  countries,  but  rather  were  regions  in  a  single  state.  The 
elite  spoke  a  common  language,  and  it  was  not  until  late  in  the 
eighteenth  century  that  any  separatist  sentiments  were  heard  within 
Finland.  However,  Finns  occasionally  suffered  much  from  Sweden's 
wars  with  neighboring  states.  In  the  sixteenth  and  the  seventeenth 
centuries,  Sweden  was  one  of  Europe's  great  powers  and  had  a 
considerable  empire  around  the  shores  of  the  Baltic  Sea.  Wars  were 
frequently  the  means  of  settling  Finland's  eastern  border.  In  the 
long  run,  however,  Sweden  could  not  sustain  its  imperial  preten- 
sions, and  military  defeats  obliged  it  to  cede  Finland  to  tsarist  Russia 
in  1809. 

Finland's  new  ruler.  Tsar  Alexander  I,  convinced  of  the  stra- 
tegic need  to  control  Finland  for  the  protection  of  his  capital  at 
St.  Petersburg,  decided  it  was  more  expedient  to  woo  his  Finnish 


XXlll 


subjects  to  allegiance  than  to  subjugate  them  by  force.  He  made 
the  country  the  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland  and  granted  it  an  autono- 
mous status  within  the  empire  (see  The  Russian  Grand  Duchy  of 
Finland,  1809-1917,  ch.  1).  The  Grand  Duchy  kept  its  Swedish 
code  of  laws,  its  governmental  structure  and  bureaucracy,  its  Lu- 
theran religion,  and  its  native  languages.  In  addition,  Finns  re- 
mained free  of  obligations  connected  to  the  empire,  such  as  the 
duty  to  serve  in  tsarist  armies,  and  they  enjoyed  certain  rights  that 
citizens  from  other  parts  of  the  empire  did  not  have. 

Nevertheless,  the  Grand  Duchy  was  not  a  democratic  state.  The 
tsar  retained  supreme  power  and  ruled  through  the  highest  offi- 
cial in  the  land,  the  governor  general,  almost  always  a  Russian 
officer.  Alexander  dissolved  the  Diet  of  the  Four  Estates  shortly 
after  convening  it  in  1809,  and  it  did  not  meet  again  for  half  a  cen- 
tury. The  tsar's  actions  were  in  accordance  with  the  royalist  con- 
stitution Finland  had  inherited  from  Sweden.  The  Finns  had  no 
guarantees  of  liberty,  but  depended  on  the  tsar's  goodwill  for  any 
freedoms  they  enjoyed.  When  Alexander  II,  the  Tsar  Liberator, 
convened  the  Diet  again  in  1863,  he  did  so  not  to  fulfill  any  obli- 
gation but  to  meet  growing  pressures  for  reform  within  the  empire 
as  a  whole.  In  the  remaining  decades  of  the  century,  the  Diet 
enacted  numerous  legislative  measures  that  modernized  Finland's 
system  of  law,  made  its  public  administration  more  efficient, 
removed  obstacles  to  commerce,  and  prepared  the  ground  for  the 
country's  independence  in  the  next  century. 

The  wave  of  romantic  nationalism  that  appeared  in  Europe  in 
the  first  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  had  profound  effects  in  Fin- 
land (see  The  Rise  of  Finnish  Nationalism,  ch.  1).  For  hundreds 
of  years,  Finland's  Swedish- speaking  minority  had  directed  the 
country's  affairs.  The  Finnish-speaking  majority,  setded  mostly 
in  the  interior  regions,  was  involved  only  marginally  in  the  social 
and  the  commercial  developments  along  the  coast.  Finnish- speakers 
wishing  to  rise  in  society  learned  Swedish.  Few  schools  used  Fin- 
nish as  a  means  of  instruction:  higher  education  was  conducted 
entirely  in  Swedish,  and  books  in  Finnish  were  usually  on  religious 
subjects.  The  nationalist  movement  in  Finland  created  an  interest 
in  the  language  and  the  folklore  of  the  Finnish- speaking  majority. 
Scholars  set  out  into  the  countryside  to  learn  what  they  could  of 
the  traditional  arts.  Elias  Lonnrot,  the  most  important  of  these  men, 
first  published  his  collection  of  Finnish  folk  poems  in  1835.  This 
collection,  the  Kalevala,  was  quickly  recognized  as  Finland's  national 
epic.  It  became  the  cornerstone  of  the  movement  that  aimed  at 
transforming  rural  Finnish  dialects  into  a  language  suitable  for 
modern  life  and  capable  of  displacing  Swedish  as  the  language  of 


xxiv 


law,  commerce,  and  culture. 

Several  generations  of  struggle  were  needed  before  the  Finnish 
nationadist  movement  realized  its  objectives.  Numerous  members 
of  the  Swedish-speaking  community  entered  the  C2impaign,  adopting 
Finnish  as  their  language  and  exchanging  their  Swedish  family 
names  for  Finnish  ones.  Finnish  journals  were  founded,  and  Fin- 
nish became  an  official  language  in  1863.  By  the  end  of  the  century, 
there  was  a  slight  majority  of  Finnish- speciking  students  at  the 
University  of  Helsinki,  and  Finnish- speakers  made  up  sizable  por- 
tions of  the  professions. 

Finland's  first  politicEil  parties  grew  out  of  the  language  strug- 
gle. Those  advocating  full  rights  for  Finnish-speakers  formed  the 
so-called  Fennoman  group  that  by  the  1890s  had  split  into  the  Old 
Finns  and  the  Young  Finns,  the  former  mainly  concerned  with  the 
language  question,  the  latter  urging  the  introduction  of  political 
liberalism.  The  Swedish- speaking  community  formed  a  short-lived 
Liberal  Party.  As  the  century  drew  to  a  close  and  the  Fennoman 
movement  had  achieved  its  principcd  goals,  economic  issues  and 
relations  with  the  tsarist  empire  came  to  dominate  politics. 

Finland's  economy  had  always  been  predominandy  agriculturcd, 
and  with  the  exception  of  a  small  merchant  class  along  the  coast, 
nearly  all  Finns  were  engaged  in  farming,  mostly  on  small  family 
farms  (see  Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy,  ch.  3).  Despite 
the  location  of  the  country  in  the  high  north,  long  summer  days 
usually  allowed  harvests  sufficient  to  support  the  country's  popu- 
lation, although  many  lived  at  a  subsistence  level.  In  years  of  poor 
harvests,  however,  famine  was  possible.  In  1867-68,  for  example, 
about  8  percent  of  the  population  starved  to  death. 

Sweden's  political  development  had  favored  the  formation  of  an 
independent  peaszintry  rather  than  a  class  of  large  landowners.  Even 
while  part  of  the  tsarist  empire,  Finland  maintained  this  tradition. 
As  a  result,  instead  of  serfs,  there  were  many  independent  sm2dl 
farmers,  who,  in  addition  to  owning  their  land,  had  stands  of  tim- 
ber they  could  sell.  When  Western  Europe  began  to  buy  Finnish 
timber  on  a  large  scale  in  the  latter  part  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
many  farmers  profited  from  the  sale  of  Finland's  only  significant 
natural  resource,  and  ready  money  transformed  many  of  them  into 
entrepreneurs.  There  was  also  demand  for  timber  products,  and, 
at  sites  close  to  both  timber  and  means  of  transport,  pulp  and  paper 
mills  were  constructed. 

Liberalization  of  trade  laws  and  the  institution  of  a  national  cur- 
rency not  tied  to  the  Russian  ruble  encouraged  a  quickening  of 
the  economy  and  the  growth  of  other  sectors.  Finland's  position 
within  the  Russian  Empire  was  also  beneficial.  As  Finnish  products 


XXV 


were  not  subject  to  import  duties,  they  could  be  sold  at  lower  prices 
than  comparable  goods  coming  from  Western  Europe. 

The  appearance  of  an  industrial  sector  offered  employment  to 
a  rural  work  force,  many  of  whom  owned  no  land  and  earned  their 
living  as  tenant  farmers  or  laborers.  Much  of  the  employment 
offered  was  of  a  seasonEil  nature,  a  circumstance  that  meant  con- 
siderable hardship.  In  contrast  to  the  larger  European  countries, 
most  of  this  emerging  proletariat  did  not  live  in  concentrated  urban 
areas,  but  near  numerous  small  industrial  centers  airound  the  coun- 
try. This  had  two  results:  the  one  was  that  the  Finnish  working 
class  retained  much  of  its  rural  character;  the  other  was  that  labor 
problems  affected  the  entire  country,  not  just  urban  centers. 

Finland's  modernizing  economy  encouraged  the  formation  of 
social  groups  with  specific,  and  sometimes  opposing,  interests.  In 
addition  to  the  Finnish  movement's  Old  and  Young  Finns,  other 
political  organizations  came  into  being.  Because  the  existing  political 
groups  did  not  adequately  represent  labor's  interests,  a  workers' 
party  was  formed  at  the  end  of  the  century.  In  1903  it  became  the 
Finnish  SociaJ  Democratic  Party  (Suomen  Sosialidemokraattinen 
Puolue — SDP).  At  the  same  time  labor  was  organizing  itself,  the 
farmers  began  a  cooperative  movement;  in  1907  they  formed  the 
Agrarian  Party  (Maalaisliitto — ML).  The  Swedish  People's  Party 
(Svenska  Folkpartiet — SEP),  also  dating  from  this  period,  was 
formed  to  serve  the  entire  Swedish- speaking  population,  not  just 
those  involved  in  commerce,  an  area  where  Swedish- speakers  were 
still  dominant. 

The  Grand  Duchy's  relationship  with  St.  Petersburg  began  to 
deteriorate  in  the  1890s.  The  nervousness  of  tsarist  officials  about 
Finnish  loyalty  in  wartime  prompted  measures  to  bind  Finland  more 
closely  to  the  empire.  The  campaign  of  "Russification' '  ended  only 
with  Finland's  independence  in  1917  (see  The  Era  of  Russifica- 
tion,  ch.  1).  In  retrospect  the  campaign  can  be  seen  as  a  failure, 
but  for  severad  decades  it  caused  much  turmoil  within  Finland, 
reaching  its  most  extreme  point  with  the  assassination  of  the  gover- 
nor general  in  1904.  The  first  Russian  revolution,  that  of  1905, 
allowed  Finns  to  discard  their  antiquated  Diet  and  to  replace  it  with 
a  unicameral  legislature,  the  Eduskunta,  elected  through  univer- 
S2d  suffrage.  Finland  became  the  first  European  nation  in  which 
women  had  the  franchise.  The  first  national  election,  that  of  1907, 
yielded  Europe's  largest  social  democratic  parliamentary  faction. 
In  a  single  step,  Finland  went  from  being  one  of  Europe's  most 
politically  backward  countries  to  being  one  of  its  most  advanced. 
Nonetheless,  frequent  dissolutions  at  the  hands  of  the  tsar  permit- 
ted the  Eduskunta  to  achieve  little  before  independence. 


xxvi 


The  second  Russian  revolution  allowed  Finland  to  break  away 
from  the  Russian  empire,  and  independence  was  declared  on 
December  6,  1917.  Within  weeks,  domestic  political  differences 
led  to  an  armed  struggle  among  Finns  themselves  that  lasted  until 
May  1918,  when  right-wing  forces,  with  some  German  assistance, 
were  able  to  claim  victory  (see  The  Finnish  Civil  War,  ch.  1). 
Whether  seen  as  a  civil  war  or  as  a  war  of  independence,  the  con- 
flict created  bitter  political  divisions  that  endured  for  decades.  As 
a  consequence,  Finland  began  its  existence  as  an  independent  state 
with  a  considerable  segment  of  its  people  estranged  from  the  holders 
of  power,  a  circumstance  that  caused  much  strife  in  Finnish  politics. 

In  mid-1919,  Finns  agreed  on  a  new  Constitution,  one  that  con- 
structed a  modern  parliamentary  system  of  government  from 
existing  political  institutions  and  traditions.  The  200-seat  unicameral 
parliament,  the  Eduskunta,  was  retained.  A  cabinet,  the  Council 
of  State,  was  fashioned  from  the  Senate  of  the  tsarist  period.  A 
powerful  presidency,  derived,  in  part  at  least,  from  the  office  of 
governor  general,  was  created  and  provided  with  a  mixture  of  pow- 
ers and  duties  that,  in  other  countries,  might  be  shared  by  such 
figures  as  king,  president,  and  prime  minister.  Also  included  in 
the  new  governmental  system  was  an  independent  judiciary.  The 
powers  of  the  three  branches  of  government  were  controlled  through 
an  overlapping  of  powers,  rather  than  a  strict  separation  of  pow- 
ers (see  Governmental  Institutions,  ch.  4). 

Finland  faced  numerous  political  and  economic  difficulties  in  the 
interwar  years,  but  it  surmounted  them  better  than  many  other 
European  countries  (see  Independence  and  the  Interwar  Era, 
1917-39,  ch.  1).  Despite  the  instability  of  many  short-lived  govern- 
ments, the  political  system  held  together  during  the  first  decades 
of  independence.  While  other  countries  succumbed  to  right-wing 
forces,  Finland  had  only  a  brush  with  fascism.  Communist  organi- 
zations were  banned,  and  their  representatives  in  the  Eduskunta 
arrested,  but  the  SDP  was  able  to  recover  from  wounds  sustained 
during  the  Civil  War  and  was  returned  to  power.  In  1937  the  party 
formed  the  first  of  the  so-called  Red-Earth  coalitions  with  the  ML, 
the  most  common  party  combination  of  the  next  fifty  years,  one 
that  brought  together  the  parties  representing  the  two  largest  so- 
cial groups.  The  language  problem  was  largely  resolved  by  provi- 
sions in  the  Constitution  that  protected  the  rights  of  the 
Swedish- speaking  minority.  Bitterness  about  the  past  dominance 
of  Swedish- speaking  Finns  remained  ailive  in  some  segments  of  the 
population,  but  Finnish  at  last  had  a  just  place  in  the  country's 
economic  and  socicd  life. 


xxvu 


Finland's  economy  diversified  further  during  the  the  1920s  and 
the  1930s.  Timber,  the  country's  "green  gold,"  remained  essen- 
tial, but  timber  products  such  as  pulp  and  paper  came  to  displace 
timber  as  the  most  important  export.  Government  measures,  such 
as  nationalization  of  some  industries  and  public  investment  in 
others,  encouraged  the  growth  and  strengthening  of  the  mining, 
chemiccd,  and  metallurgiczd  industries.  Nevertheless,  agriculture 
continued  to  be  more  important  in  Finland  than  it  was  in  many 
other  countries  of  Western  Europe.  Government-enforced  redis- 
tribution of  plots  of  land  reduced  the  number  of  landless  workers 
and  fostered  the  development  of  the  family  farm.  Survival  during 
the  Great  Depression  dictated  that  Finnish  farmers  switch  from 
animal  products  for  export  to  grains  for  domestic  consumption. 

Finl2ind's  official  foreign  policy  of  neutrality  in  the  interwar  period 
could  not  offset  the  strategic  importance  of  the  country's  territory 
to  Nazi  Germany  and  to  the  Soviet  Union  (see  World  War  II, 
1939-45,  ch.  1).  The  latter  was  convinced  that  it  had  a  defensive 
need  to  ensure  that  Finland  would  not  be  used  as  an  avenue  for 
attack  on  its  northwestern  areas,  especially  on  Leningrad.  When 
Finland  refused  to  accede  to  its  demands  for  some  territory,  the 
Soviet  Union  launched  an  attack  in  November  1939.  A  valiant  Fin- 
nish defense,  led  by  Carl  Gustaf  Emil  Mannerheim,  slowed  the 
invaders,  but  in  March  1940  the  Winter  War  ended  when  Fin- 
land agreed  to  cede  to  the  Soviets  about  10  percent  of  Finnish  ter- 
ritory and  to  permit  a  Soviet  military  base  on  Finnish  soil.  In  June 
1941 ,  Finland  joined  Germany  as  cobelligerent  in  its  attack  on  the 
Soviet  Union.  In  what  Finns  call  the  Continuation  War,  Finland 
confined  its  military  actions  to  areas  near  its  prewar  borders.  In 
the  fall  of  1944,  Finland  made  a  separate  peace  with  the  Soviet 
Union,  one  that  was  conditional  on  its  ceding  territory,  granting 
basing  rights,  agreeing  to  onerous  reparation  payments,  and 
expelling  German  forces  from  its  territory.  However,  although  Fin- 
land suffered  greatly  during  World  War  II  and  lost  some  territo- 
ry, it  was  never  occupied,  and  it  survived  the  war  with  its 
independence  intact. 

Finland  faced  daunting  ch2illenges  in  the  immediate  postwar 
years.  The  most  pressing  perhaps  was  the  settlement  of  400,000 
Finns  formerly  residing  in  territory  ceded  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Most 
were  natives  of  Karelia.  Legislation  that  sequestered  land  through- 
out the  country  and  levied  sacrifices  on  the  whole  population 
provided  homes  for  these  displaced  Finns.  Another  hurdle  was  get- 
ting the  economy  in  shape  to  make  reparation  payments  equiva- 
lent to  US$300  million,  most  of  it  in  kind,  to  the  Soviet  Union. 
This  payment  entailed  a  huge  effort,  successfully  completed  in  1952. 


XXVlll 


A  less  concrete  problem,  but  ultimately  a  more  important  one, 
was  the  regulation  of  Finland's  international  relations  (see  The  Cold 
War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948,  ch.  1;  Foreign  Relations,  ch.  4),  The 
Treaty  of  Paris,  signed  in  1947,  limited  the  size  and  the  nature 
of  Finland's  armed  forces.  Weapons  were  to  be  solely  defensive. 
A  deepening  of  postwar  tensions  led  a  year  later  to  the  Treaty  of 
Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance  (FCMA — see 
Appendix  B)  with  the  Soviet  Union,  the  treaty  that  has  been  the 
foundation  of  Finnish  foreign  relations  in  the  postwar  era.  Under 
the  terms  of  the  treaty,  Finland  is  bound  to  confer  with  the  Soviets 
and  perhaps  to  accept  their  aid  if  an  attack  from  Germany,  or  coun- 
tries allied  with  Germany,  seems  likely.  The  treaty  prescribes  con- 
sultations between  the  two  countries,  but  it  is  not  a  mechanism 
for  automatic  Soviet  intervention  in  a  time  of  crisis.  The  treaty 
has  worked  well,  and  it  has  been  renewed  severad  times,  the  last 
time  in  1983.  What  the  Soviet  Union  saw  as  its  strategic  defensive 
need — a  secure  northwestern  border — was  met.  The  Finns  also 
achieved  their  objective  in  that  Finland  remained  an  independent 
nation. 

The  Finnish  architect  of  the  treaty,  Juho  Kusti  Paasikivi,  a  lead- 
ing conservative  politician,  saw  that  an  essential  element  of  Fin- 
nish foreign  policy  must  be  a  credible  guarantee  to  the  Soviet  Union 
that  it  need  not  fear  attack  from,  or  through,  Finnish  territory. 
Because  a  policy  of  neutrality  was  a  political  component  of  this 
guarantee,  Finland  would  ally  itself  with  no  one.  Another  aspect 
of  the  guarantee  was  that  Finnish  defenses  had  to  be  sufficiently 
strong  to  defend  the  nation's  territory  (see  Concepts  of  National 
Security,  ch.  5).  This  policy,  continued  after  Paasikivi' s  term  as 
president  (1946-56)  by  Urho  Kekkonen  (1956-81)  and  Mauno 
Koivisto  (1982-  ),  remained  the  core  of  Finland's  foreign  relations. 

In  the  following  decades,  Finland  maintained  its  neutrality  and 
independence.  It  had  moved  from  temporary  isolation  in  the 
immediate  postwar  years  to  full  membership  in  the  community  of 
nations  by  the  end  of  the  1980s.  Finland  joined  the  United  Nations 
(UN)  and  the  Nordic  Council  in  1955.  It  became  an  associate  mem- 
ber of  the  European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA — see  Glossary) 
in  1961  and  a  full  member  in  1986.  Relations  with  the  European 
Community  (EC — see  Glossary)  and  the  Council  of  Mutual  Eco- 
nomic Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon — see  Glossary) 
date  from  the  first  half  of  the  1970s.  In  mid-1989,  Finland  joined 
the  Council  of  Europe  (see  Glossary).  The  policy  of  neutradity 
became  more  active  in  the  1960s,  when  Finland  began  to  play  a 
larger  role  in  the  UN,  most  notably  in  its  peacekeeping  forces. 
Measures  aiming  at  increasing  world  peace  have  also  been  a 


XXIX 


hallmark  of  this  policy.  Since  the  1960s,  Finland  has  urged  the  for- 
mation of  a  Nordic  Nuclear- Weapons-Free  Zone  (Nordic  NWFZ), 
and  in  the  1970s  was  the  host  of  the  Conference  on  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE),  which  culminated  in  the  signing 
of  the  Helsinki  Accords  in  1975.  By  the  end  of  the  1980s,  the  most 
serious  question  for  Finland  in  international  relations  was  how  the 
country's  economy,  heavily  dependent  on  exports,  would  fare  once 
the  EC  had  achieved  its  goal  of  a  single  market  in  1992.  Finland's 
neutrality  seemed  to  preclude  membership  in  an  organization  where 
foreign  policy  concerns  were  no  longer  left  to  individual  member 
nations. 

Finland  also  dealt  effectively  with  domestic  political  problems 
in  the  postwar  era  (see  Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics, 
1948-66,  ch.  1;  Political  Dynamics,  ch.  4).  By  the  early  1950s,  the 
patterns  of  postwar  Finnish  politics  were  established.  No  one  group 
was  dominant,  but  the  ML  under  the  leadership  of  Kekkonen,  who 
became  president  in  1956,  became  an  almost  permanent  govern- 
ing party  until  the  late  1980s.  In  1966  it  changed  its  name  to  the 
Center  Party  (Keskustapuolue — Kesk)  in  an  attempt  to  appeal  to 
a  broader  segment  of  the  electorate,  but  it  still  was  not  successful 
in  penetrating  southern  coastal  Finland.  The  SDP  remained  strong, 
but  it  was  often  riven  by  dissension.  In  addition,  it  had  to  share 
the  socialist  vote  with  the  Communist  Party  of  Finland  (Suomen 
Kommunistinen  Puolue — SKP).  As  a  consequence,  nonsocialist 
parties  never  had  to  face  a  united  left.  In  the  1980s,  the  communists 
had  severe  problems  adjusting  to  new  social  conditions,  and  they 
split  into  severad  warring  groups.  As  a  result,  their  movement  had 
a  marginal  position  in  Finnish  politics.  The  SFP,  a  moderate  cen- 
trist party  with  liberal  and  conservative  wings,  had  a  slighdy  declin- 
ing number  of  seats  in  the  Eduskunta,  but  its  position  in  the  middle 
of  the  political  spectrum  often  made  it  indispensable  for  coalition 
governments.  The  National  Coalition  Party  (Kansallinen  Ko- 
koomuspuolue — KOK),  rigidly  conservative  in  the  interwar  period, 
gradually  became  more  moderate  and  grew  stronger,  surpassing 
Kesk  in  the  number  of  parliamentary  seats  in  1979.  Excluded  from 
a  role  in  government  for  decades,  possibly  because  it  had  been  so 
right-wing  earlier,  the  KOK  participated  in  the  government  formed 
after  the  national  elections  of  1987,  supplying  the  prime  minister, 
Harri  Holkeri.  The  Liberal  Party  of  the  postwar  period  was  never 
strong,  and  it  had  a  negligible  role  by  the  1980s. 

A  number  of  smaller  parties,  protest  parties,  and  parties 
representing  quite  distinct  groups  filled  out  the  list  of  about  a  dozen 
organizations  that  regularly  vied  for  public  office.  Pensioners  and 


XXX 


activist  Christians  each  had  their  own  party,  and  environmentalists 
won  several  seats  in  the  1983  and  the  1987  national  elections.  The 
most  active  of  the  protest  parties  was  the  Finnish  Rural  Party  (Suo- 
men  Maaseudun  Puolue — SMP),  which  managed  to  take  votes 
from  both  Kesk  and  the  socisdist  groups.  It  scored  its  first  big  suc- 
cesses in  the  1970  national  elections.  Since  then  its  electoral  results 
have  varied  considerably.  By  late  1980s,  it  seemed  a  spent  force. 

After  the  1966  national  elections.  President  Kekkonen  succeed- 
ed in  forming  a  popular  front  coalition  government  that  contained 
communists,  socialists,  and  members  of  Kesk.  Although  this  govern- 
ment lasted  only  two  years  and  was  succeeded  for  another  decade 
by  short-lived  coalition  and  caretaker  civil  service  governments, 
it  was  the  beginning  of  what  Finns  call  the  politics  of  consensus 
(see  Finland  in  the  Era  of  Consensus,  ch.  1).  By  the  1980s,  con- 
sensus politics  had  become  so  dominant  that  some  observers  claimed 
that  Finnish  politics,  long  so  bitter  and  contentious,  had  become 
the  most  boring  in  Western  Europe.  Although  the  larger  parties 
differed  on  specific  issues,  and  personal  rivalries  could  be  poisonous, 
there  was  broad  agreement  about  domestic  and  foreign  policy.  The 
cabinet  put  in  place  after  the  1983  elections,  consisting  mainly  of 
social  democrats  and  members  of  Kesk,  completed  its  whole  term 
of  office,  the  first  government  to  do  so  in  the  postwar  period. 
Observers  believed  that  the  next  government,  formed  in  1987  and 
composed  mainly  of  conservatives  and  social  democrats,  would  also 
serve  out  its  term. 

A  foundation  of  the  politics  of  consensus  was  the  success  of  the 
system  of  broad  incomes  agreements  that  has  characterized  Fin- 
land's employee-employer  relations  in  recent  decades.  The  first  of 
these,  the  Liinamaa  Agreement,  dated  from  1968.  By  the  1980s, 
the  process  was  so  regular  as  to  seem  institutionalized.  With  about 
80  percent  of  the  work  force  as  members,  unions  negotiated  incomes 
agreements  with  employers'  organizations  (see  Industrial  Relations, 
ch.  3).  The  government  often  helped  in  the  talks  and  subsequently 
proposed  legislation  embodying  social  welfare  measures  or  finan- 
cial measures  that  underpinned  the  agreements.  The  process  was 
successful  at  increasing  labor  peace  in  a  country  that  had  been 
racked  by  strikes  for  the  first  decades  after  World  War  II.  Although 
there  were  complaints  that  the  agreements  bypassed  political  chan- 
nels or  excluded  minority  opinion,  the  obvious  prosperity  they  had 
helped  bring  about  made  the  incomes  policy  system  and  the  polit- 
ics of  consensus  highly  popular. 

For  much  of  its  history,  Finland  had  been  a  poor  country,  but 
in  the  postwar  era  it  gradually  became  one  of  the  world's  most 
prosperous.  At  the  end  of  the  war,  the  country's  economy  faced 


xxxi 


serious  hurdles.  Although  it  was  never  occupied,  Finland  had 
suffered  extensive  material  damage,  especially  in  the  north.  The 
burden  of  reparations,  to  be  paid  in  kind,  meant  that  much  rebuild- 
ing had  to  occur  quickly  and  the  economy  had  to  be  diversified 
(Industry,  ch.  3).  The  Finns  were  successful,  and  by  the  early  1950s 
the  country  had  an  economy  well  poised  to  compete  in  the  world 
market.  Timber  and  timber  products  remained  important,  but  a 
skillful  selection  of  export  objectives  and  the  general  high  quality 
of  its  manufactures  allowed  Finnish  products  to  penetrate  the 
international  economy  at  many  points.  Careful  government  fiscal 
policies  and  selected  state  supports  combined  with  liberal  trade  poli- 
cies and  financial  deregulation  to  create  an  economy  among  the 
most  capitalistic  of  Western  Europe  (see  Role  of  Government,  ch. 
3).  In  the  1980s,  Finnish  businessmen  began  to  invest  some  of  their 
profits  abroad.  Faced  with  the  prospect  of  being  closed  out  of  the 
EC's  single  market,  they  bought  into  many  firms  located  within 
the  EC's  member  states.  Finland's  membership  in  EFTA,  an 
important  trading  partner  of  the  EC ,  also  served  to  allay  worries 
about  the  future  of  Finland's  export  trade  (see  Foreign  Economic 
Relations,  ch.  3). 

Finland's  access  to  the  Soviet  Union's  economy,  through  an 
arrangement  whereby  Finnish  products  were  exchanged  for  raw 
materials,  had  for  decades  provided  a  fairly  secure  market  for  many 
of  Finland's  exports  (see  Finnish- Soviet  Cooperation,  ch.  3).  By 
the  late  1980s,  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  was  declining  because 
of  the  long-term  drop  in  the  price  of  oil,  but  sophisticated  joint 
venture  agreements  were  being  adopted  to  meet  changed  circum- 
stances. 

The  economic  transformation  of  Finland  caused  a  social  trans- 
formation as  well.  In  1950,  approximately  40  percent  of  the  work 
force  was  engaged  in  agricultural  and  forest  work.  By  the  1980s, 
fewer  than  10  percent  were  employed  in  this  sector.  Rather,  the 
service  sector  became  the  largest  single  source  of  work  (see 
Occupational  and  Wage  Structure,  ch.  2;  Employment,  ch.  3).  As 
the  country  became  wealthier,  between  1950  and  the  1980s,  the 
number  of  persons  retired  or  being  educated  increased  dramati- 
cally and  accounted  for  a  significant  portion  of  the  population.  An 
advanced  economy  required  a  skilled  work  force,  and  enrollment 
at  the  university  level  alone  had  quadrupled. 

A  changing  economy  changed  ways  of  life.  Finns  moved  to  areas 
where  jobs  were  available,  mainly  to  the  south  coastal  region  (see 
Internal  Migration,  ch.  2).  This  area  saw  a  tremendous  expan- 
sion, while  other  regions,  most  notably  the  central-eastern  area, 
lost  population.  Finns  call  this  movement  of  people  from  the 


xxxii 


countryside  to  the  urbanized  south  the  "Great  Migration."  It  gave 
Finns  improved  hving  conditions,  but  it  caused  much  uprooting 
with  predictable  social  effects:  loss  of  traditional  social  ties,  psy- 
chological disorders,  and  asocial  behavior.  Not  all  of  the  new  set- 
tlements constructed  in  the  south  were  as  famed  for  their  design 
as  the  garden  town  Tapiola  in  greater  Helsinki  (see  Urbanization, 
ch.  2). 

The  new  prosperity  was  widely  distributed,  and  people  of  all 
classes  benefited  from  it.  Labor  was  highly  organized,  and  the  broad 
incomes  agreements  involved  nearly  all  of  the  working  population. 
Those  not  in  the  active  work  force  got  a  decent  share  of  the  coun- 
try's wealth  via  an  extensive  system  of  social  welfare  programs  (see 
Public  Welfare,  ch.  2).  Worries  about  health  or  old  age  were  no 
longer  pressing  because  government  assistance  was  available  for 
those  who  needed  it.  Some  social  measures  deaJt  with  family  wel- 
fare. Paid  maternity  leave  lasted  for  nearly  a  year,  and  in  the  1980s 
increasing  resources  were  earmarked  for  childcare,  as  most  mothers 
were  employed  outside  the  home.  Finland's  welfare  system  was 
based  on  the  model  developed  in  the  other  Nordic  countries  in  which 
coverage  was  universal  and  was  seen  as  a  right,  not  as  a  privilege. 
Faced  with  special  problems,  and  beginning  with  smaller  means, 
Finland  put  its  welfare  system  in  place  somewhat  later  than  did 
the  Scandinavian  countries.  By  the  late  1980s,  however,  it  had 
become  a  member  of  that  small  community  of  nations  that  com- 
bined an  extensive  state  welfare  system  with  a  highly  competitive, 
privately  owned  market  economy. 


August  7,  1989  Eric  Solsten 


xxxiii 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Fifteenth- century  Olavinlinna  Fortress  in  Savonlinna 


The  signal  achievement  of  Finland  has  been  its 

survival  against  great  odds — against  a  harsh  dimate,  physical  and 
cultural  isolation,  and  international  dangers.  Finland  lies  at  higher 
latitudes  than  any  other  country  in  the  world,  and  the  punishing 
northern  climate  has  complicated  life  there  considerably.  Geographi- 
cally, Finland  is  on  the  remote  northern  periphery,  far  from  the 
mass  of  Europe,  yet  near  two  larger  states,  Sweden  and  Russia — 
later  the  Soviet  Union,  which  have  drawn  it  into  innumerable  wars 
and  have  dominated  its  development  (see  fig.  1). 

At  the  beginning  of  its  recorded  history,  in  the  eleventh  century 
A.D.,  Finland  was  conquered  by  its  powerful  neighbor,  Sweden. 
Christianization  and  more  than  600  years  of  Swedish  rule  (c. 
11 50- 1809)  made  the  Finns  an  essentially  West  European  people, 
integrated  into  the  religion,  culture,  economics,  and  politics  of 
European  civilization.  The  Finns  have,  however,  maintained  their 
own  language,  which  is  complex  and  is  not  related  to  most  other 
European  languages. 

The  centuries  of  Swedish  rule  witnessed  Finland's  increasing  in- 
volvement in  European  politics,  particularly  when  the  country 
served  as  a  battleground  between  Sweden  on  the  west  and  Russia 
on  the  east.  Over  the  centuries,  Russia  has  exerted  an  especially 
persistent  and  powerful  pressure  on  Finland.  Many  wars  were 
fought  between  Swedes  and  Finns  on  the  one  side  and  Russians 
on  the  other.  Eventually,  Russia  conquered  Finland  and  incorpo- 
rated it  into  the  Russian  Empire,  where  it  remained  for  more  than 
a  century,  from  1809  to  1917. 

Until  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Finns  were,  like  many  other 
peoples  of  Europe,  a  subject  nation  seemingly  without  a  culture 
or  a  history  of  their  own.  The  national  awakening  of  the  nineteenth 
century  brought  recognition  of  the  uniqueness  of  the  Finnish  peo- 
ple and  their  culture,  and  led  to  Finland's  independence  in  1917. 
Complicating  the  emergence  of  the  Finnish  people  into  national 
consciousness,  however,  was  the  split  between  the  majority  of  Fin- 
nish speakers  and  a  powerful  and  influential  minority  of  Swedish 
speakers.  Only  during  the  twentieth  century  was  this  conflict  gradu- 
ally resolved. 

In  1987  Finland  celebrated  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  its  na- 
tional independence,  which  was  a  hard- won  achievement.  Indepen- 
dence was  threatened  at  the  start  by  a  bloody  civil  war  in  1918 
between  Finnish  leftists  (Reds)  and  rightists  (Whites);  a  victory  by 


3 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

the  Reds  might  have  resuhed  in  Finland's  eventual  absorption  by 
the  Soviet  Union.  One  legacy  of  the  war  was  a  long-lasting  politi- 
cal division  between  working-class  Reds  and  middle-class  Whites 
during  the  first  two  decades  of  independence.  As  a  result,  political 
extremism,  as  represented  by  communism  and  by  fascism,  was 
stronger  in  Finland  than  it  was  in  many  other  Western  democra- 
cies; it  was  eventually  neutralized,  however,  and  with  time  Fin- 
nish democracy  became  strongly  rooted. 

The  most  serious  challenges  to  Finland's  independence  came  dur- 
ing World  War  II,  when  the  Finns  twice  faced  attack  by  overwhelm- 
ing Soviet  forces.  They  fought  heroically  and  were  defeated  both 
times,  but  the  Soviets  were  narrowly  prevented  from  occupying 
and  absorbing  Finland.  Since  World  War  II,  the  Soviet  Union's 
status  as  a  superpower  has  meant  that  it  could  at  any  time  end  Fin- 
land's existence  as  a  separate  state.  Recognizing  this,  the  Finns 
have  sought  and  achieved  reconciliation  with  the  Soviets,  and  they 
have  tenaciously  pursued  a  policy  of  neutrality,  avoiding  entan- 
glement in  superpower  conflicts. 

The  long  era  of  peace  after  World  War  II  made  possible  the  blos- 
soming of  Finland  as  a  modern,  industrialized,  social- welfare 
democracy.  By  the  1980s,  the  intense  social  conflicts  of  previous 
decades  were  largely  reconciled,  and  the  country's  relationships 
with  other  nations  were  apparendy  stable. 

Origins  of  the  Finns 

Present-day  Finland  became  habitable  in  about  8,000  B.C.,  fol- 
lowing the  northward  retreat  of  the  glaciers,  and  at  about  that  time 
Neolithic  peoples  migrated  into  the  country.  According  to  the 
legends  found  in  the  Finnish  folk  epic,  the  Kalevala,  those  early 
inhabitants  included  the  people  of  the  mythical  land  Pohjola,  against 
whom  the  Kalevada  people — identified  with  the  Finns — struggled; 
however,  archaeological  and  linguistic  evidence  of  the  prehistory 
of  the  region  is  fragmentary. 

According  to  the  traditional  view  of  Finnish  prehistory,  ances- 
tors of  the  Finns  migrated  westward  and  northward  from  their 
ancestral  home  in  the  Volga  River  basin  during  the  second  millen- 
nium B.C.,  arriving  on  the  southern  shore  of  the  Baltic  Sea  some 
time  during  the  next  millennium.  According  to  this  folk  history, 
the  early  Finns  began  a  migration  from  present-day  Estonia  into 
Finland  in  the  first  century  A.D.  and  setded  along  the  northern 
coast  of  the  Gulf  of  Finland.  Recent  research,  suggesting  that  the 
Finns  arrived  in  the  region  at  a  much  earlier  date,  perhaps  by  3,000 
B.C.,  has  questioned  this  traditional  view,  however  (see  fig.  2). 


4 


Historical  Setting 


Both  the  traditional  and  modem  theories  agree  that  in  referring 
to  this  prehistoric  age  one  should  not  speak  of  a  Finnish  people, 
but  rather  of  Finnic  tribes  that  established  themselves  in  present- 
day  southern  Finland,  gradually  expanded  along  the  coast  and 
inland,  and  eventually  merged  with  one  another,  absorbing  the 
indigenous  population.  Among  those  tribes  were  the  Suomalaiset, 
who  inhabited  southwestern  Finland  and  from  whom  was  derived 
Suomi,  the  Finnish  word  for  Finland.  The  Tavastians,  another  Fin- 
nic tribe,  lived  inland  in  southern  Finland;  the  Karelians  lived  far- 
ther east  in  the  area  of  the  present-day  Karelian  Isthmus  and  Lake 
Ladoga.  On  the  southern  coast  of  the  Gulf  of  Finland  were  the 
Estonians,  who  spoke  a  Finno-Ugric  language  closely  related  to 
Finnish.  North  of  the  Finns  were  the  Lapps  (or  Sami),  who  also 
spoke  a  Finno-Ugric  language,  but  who  resisted  assimilation  with 
the  Finns. 

Prehistoric  Finnic  peoples  reached  the  Iron  Age  level  of  develop- 
ment, with  social  organization  at  the  tribal  stage.  These  Finnic  tribes 
were  threatened  increasingly  by  the  politically  more  advanced  Scan- 
dinavian peoples  to  the  west  and  the  Slavic  peoples  to  the  east. 

The  Era  of  Swedish  Rule,  c.  1150-1809 

During  the  Viking  Age  (c.  A.D.  800-1050),  Swedish  Vikings 
came  into  contact  with  the  Finns  in  the  course  of  their  expeditions 
eastward,  which  were  aimed  at  establishing,  via  Russia,  trade  ties 
with  the  Arab  world,  although  they  built  no  permanent  settlements 
in  Finland.  The  Finns'  name  for  the  Swedes,  Rus,  was  derived 
from  the  Finnish  word  for  Sweden,  Ruotsi,  and  is  believed  to  be 
the  origin  of  the  name  Russia. 

Swedish  influence  in  Finland  grew  at  approximately  the  close 
of  the  Viking  Age,  when  the  Swedes  were  converted  to  Christi- 
anity by  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  and  soon  afterward  began 
missionary  activities  in  Finland.  Most  Finns  were  converted  to  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  by  about  the  mid- twelfth  century,  dur- 
ing the  wave  of  crusades  that  began  in  1095.  A  quasi-historical 
legend  maintains  that  in  1157  a  crusade  was  led  against  the  poly- 
theistic Finns  by  the  Swedish  King  Erik  IX  and  the  English  monk 
Henry,  who  had  been  appointed  archbishop  of  Upps2da.  Accord- 
ing to  tradition,  Henry  was  martyred  in  Finland  and  was  subse- 
quently recognized  as  the  country's  patron  saint.  The  success  of 
the  crusade  was  supposed  to  have  given  Sweden  and  Latin  Chris- 
tianity a  solid  foothold  in  Finland.  There  is  no  evidence  of  the  cru- 
sade and  Henry's  role  in  it,  however,  and  there  are  indications 
that  Christian  communities  existed  in  Finland  at  an  earlier  date. 


5 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Historical  Setting 


Meanwhile,  the  Russians,  partly  on  religious  grounds,  also  sought 
control  of  Finland.  They  had  been  converted  to  Eastern  Orthodox 
Christianity  and  subsequently  tried  to  convert  the  Finns  to  this 
religion.  Finnic  peoples  in  eastern  Karelia  were  converted  to 
Orthodoxy  and  were  thereby  drawn  into  a  different  religious  and 
cultural  orbit  from  Swedish-ruled,  Roman  Catholic  Finns  in  the 
west. 

About  1240,  Rome  sanctioned  two  crusades  in  an  effort  to  push 
the  frontier  of  Latin  Christianity  eastward.  Swedish  crusaders  first 
invaded  Russia  along  the  northern  shore  of  the  Gulf  of  Finland, 
but  they  were  halted  in  1240  on  the  banks  of  the  Neva  River  by 
Prince  Alexander  of  Novgorod,  who  thereby  earned  the  name  Alex- 
ander Nevsky  ("of  the  Neva").  The  second  crusade,  spearheaded 
by  the  Teutonic  Knights,  followed  the  southern  shore  of  the  Gulf 
of  Finland  and  was  defeated  by  Alexander  Nevsky  in  1242  on  the 
ice  of  Lake  Peipus.  The  Swedes  initiated  a  final  attempt  to  wrest 
eastern  Karelia  from  the  Russians  in  1293,  but  the  thirty  years  of 
war  that  followed  failed  to  dislodge  the  Russians  from  the  region. 
The  Peace  of  Pahkinasaari  (Swedish,  Noteborg)  in  1323,  which 
ended  this  war,  established  the  border  between  Finland  and  Rus- 
sia that  wasmaintained  for  nearly  three  hundred  years  (see  fig.  3). 

Sweden  consolidated  its  control  over  Finland  gradually,  in  a 
process  that  was  facilitated  by  the  introduction  of  Swedish  settlers 
along  the  southern  and  the  western  coasts  of  Finland.  The  settlers, 
most  of  whom  remained  in  the  coastal  region,  became  a  ruling  class 
within  Finland,  and  Finland  was  politically  integrated  into  the  Swed- 
ish realm. 

Medieval  Society  and  Economy 

The  late  medieval  period  was  marked  by  the  expansion  of  set- 
tlements along  the  coast  and  into  the  interior.  The  Finns  gradual- 
ly conquered  the  wilderness  to  the  north,  moved  into  it,  cleared 
the  forest,  and  established  agricultural  communities.  This  settling 
of  the  wilderness  caused  conflict  between  the  Finnish  farmers  and 
the  Lapp  reindeer  herdsmen,  forcing  the  Lapps  slowly  northward. 
By  the  end  of  the  fifteenth  century,  the  line  of  settlement  was  about 
200  kilometers  north  of  the  Gulf  of  Finland,  and  it  ran  along  most 
of  the  coast  of  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia,  though  less  than  100  kilome- 
ters inland.  The  population  of  Finland  likewise  had  grown  slowly 
in  this  difficult  environment;  it  numbered  about  400,000  by  the 
end  of  the  Middle  Ages. 

The  economy  of  medieval  Finland  was  based  on  agriculture,  but 
the  brevity  of  the  growing  season,  coupled  with  the  paucity  of  good 
soil,  required  that  farming  be  supplemented  by  hunting,  fishing, 


7 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Eino  Jutikkala  and  Kauko  Pirinen,  A  History  of  Fin- 
land, New  York,  1962,  23. 


Figure  3.  Finland  to  1617 


8 


Historical  Setting 


trapping,  and  gathering.  All  but  a  small  portion  of  the  Finnish  popu- 
lation earned  their  livelihood  in  this  way. 

Although  the  European  institution  of  serfdom  never  existed  in 
Finland,  and  although  most  of  the  farmers  were  freemen,  they  had 
litde  political  power.  Society  and  politics  were  dominated  by  a  large- 
ly Swedish- speaking  nobility.  Finland  was  represented,  however, 
in  the  Swedish  Diet  of  the  Four  Estates  (Riksdag) — clergy,  nobili- 
ty, burghers,  and  farmers — that  had  advisory  powers  in  relation 
to  the  king.  The  Finns  also  had  some  responsibility  for  matters  of 
local  justice  and  administration. 

Catholicism  was  deeply  rooted  in  medieval  Finnish  society.  The 
church  parishes  doubled  as  units  of  locad  administration,  and  the 
church  played  the  leading  role  in  fostering  an  educated  Finnish 
leadership  and  the  development  of  the  Finnish  language.  For 
example,  the  genereil  requirement  that  parish  priests  use  the 
indigenous  languajge  helped  to  maintain  the  speaking  of  Finnish. 
Turku  (Swedish,  Abo),  encompassing  the  whole  country,  was  the 
only  diocese,  and  the  bishop  of  Turku  was  the  head  of  the  Finnish 
church.  In  1291  the  first  Finn  was  named  bishop,  and  thereafter 
all  incumbents  were  native-born. 

The  southwestern  seaport  city  of  Turku,  the  seat  of  the  bishopric, 
became  the  administrative  capital  of  Finland.  Turku  was  also  the 
center  of  Finland's  mercantile  life,  which  was  dominated  by  Ger- 
man merchants  of  the  Hanseatic  League.  Finland's  main  exports 
at  this  time  were  various  furs;  the  trade  in  naval  stores  was  just 
beginning.  The  only  other  city  of  importance  at  this  time  was  Vii- 
puri  (Swedish,  Vyborg),  which  was  significant  both  as  a  Hanseatic 
trade  center  and  as  a  military  bastion  that  anchored  Finland's 
eastern  defenses  against  the  Russians. 

The  Kalmar  Union 

Only  once  has  Scandinavia  been  united  politically,  from  1397 
to  1523  under  the  Danish  crown.  The  Kalmar  Union  came  into 
existence  essentially  to  allow  the  three  Scandinavian  states  of  Den- 
mark, Sweden,  and  Norway  to  present  a  united  front  against 
foreign — primarily  German — encroachments.  The  driving  force 
behind  the  union  was  Queen  Margaret  I  of  Denmark,  who  had 
gained  the  Norwegian  crown  by  marriage  and  the  Swedish  crown 
by  joining  with  the  Swedish  nobility  against  an  unpopular  Ger- 
man king. 

Under  the  Kalmar  Union,  monarchs  sought  to  expand  royal 
power,  an  attempt  that  brought  them  into  conflict  with  the  nobles. 
The  union  eventually  came  apart  as  a  result  of  antagonisms  between 
the  Danish  monarchy  and  the  Swedish  nobility,  which  controlled 


9 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


both  Sweden  and  Finland.  Frequent  warfare  marked  Danish- 
Swedish  relations  during  these  years,  and  there  was  also  fighting 
between  factions  competing  for  the  Swedish  crown.  As  a  result  of 
the  turmoil,  Finland  suffered  from  heavy  taxation,  the  disruption 
of  commerce,  and  the  effects  of  warfare  carried  out  on  its  soil. 

The  struggle  between  Denmark  and  Sweden  diverted  essential 
resources  from  Finland's  eastern  defenses  and  left  them  open  to 
attack  by  the  Muscovites.  The  late  fifteenth  century  had  witnessed 
the  steady  expansion  of  the  power  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of  Muscovy, 
which  was  eventually  to  become  the  basis  for  the  Russian  Empire. 
In  1478  Grand  Duke  Ivan  III  subdued  Novgorod  and  thus  brought 
Muscovite  power  directly  to  the  border  of  Finland.  In  1493  Den- 
mark and  Muscovy  concluded  a  treaty  of  alliance  aimed  at  embroil- 
ing Sweden  in  a  two-front  war,  and  in  1495  Muscovite  forces 
invaded  Finland.  Although  the  fortress  city  of  Viipuri  held  out, 
the  Muscovites  avoided  the  city,  and,  almost  unchecked,  devastated 
large  areas  of  Finland's  borderlands  and  interior.  The  Swedes  made 
peace  with  Muscovy  in  1497,  and  the  borders  of  1323  were 
reaffirmed,  but  the  Swedish-Finnish  nobility  had  to  defend  Fin- 
land without  much  direct  assistance  from  Sweden. 

A  revolt,  against  the  Kalmar  Union,  under  the  leadership  of  a 
Swedish  noble  named  Gustav  Vasa  resulted  in  1523  in  the  crea- 
tion of  a  Swedish  state  separate  from  Denmark.  Vasa  became  king 
of  Sweden,  as  Gustav  I  Vasa,  and  he  founded  a  dynasty  that  ruled 
Sweden-Finland  for  more  than  a  century.  He  was  genersiUy  credited 
with  establishing  the  modern  Swedish  state.  Under  his  rule,  Fin- 
land remained  integrated  with  the  Swedish  state,  and  the  Swedish- 
Finnish  nobility  retained  its  primacy  over  local  affairs. 

The  Reformation 

The  Protestant  Reformation  that  Martin  Luther  initiated  in  Ger- 
many in  1517  spread  quickly  to  other  countries.  German  merchants, 
students,  and  missionaries  soon  brought  Lutheran  doctrines  to  Scan- 
dinavia, where  for  centuries  German  influence  had  been  strong, 
and  where,  moreover,  there  was  some  receptivity  to  the  new  doc- 
trines. By  the  time  Luther  died  in  1546,  Lutheranism  was  firmly 
implanted  in  the  Scandinavian  countries.  Sweden- Finland  converted 
to  Lutheranism  largely  through  the  efforts  of  Gustav  I  Vasa,  who 
acted  mainly  for  political  reasons,  especially  in  order  to  strengthen 
the  monarchy.  The  decisive  break  with  Rome  took  place  in  1527 
at  the  Riksdag  held  at  Vasteras.  This  acceptance  of  Lutheranism 
enabled  Gustav  I  Vasa,  with  the  help  of  the  aristocracy,  to  break 
the  political  power  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  which  had  stood 
in  the  way  of  his  desire  for  a  stronger  centralized  state.  The 


10 


Olavinlinna,  the  castle  built  at  Savonlinna  to  defend  Finland's 

eastern  frontier  against  the  Russians 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

confiscation  of  Church  properties  that  accompanied  the  Reforma- 
tion also  provided  an  enormous  economic  windfall  for  both  the 
aristocracy  and  the  monarchy.  Before  the  Reformation,  the  Church 
had  owned  about  one-fifth  of  the  land  in  Sweden. 

In  Finland  there  was  little  popular  demand  for  the  Reformation 
because  more  than  90  percent  of  the  homesteads  were  owned  by 
the  farmers,  and  the  Church,  which  owned  less  than  10  percent, 
used  most  of  its  income  to  support  schools  and  charities.  Luther- 
anism  was  instituted  without  serious  opposition,  nevertheless.  In 
part,  this  was  attributable  to  the  gradual  and  cautious  manner  in 
which  Lutherans  replaced  Roman  Catholic  doctrines  while  retaining 
many  Catholic  customs  and  practices.  The  Lutheran  Church  was 
not  firmly  established  finally  until  1598,  when  the  last  Catholic  king 
of  Sweden- Finland,  Sigismund,  was  driven  from  the  throne. 

The  outstanding  ecclesiastical  figure  of  the  Reformation  in  Fin- 
land was  Mikael  Agricola  (1506-57),  who  exerted  a  great 
influence  on  the  subsequent  development  of  the  country.  Agri- 
cola  had  studied  under  Luther  at  Wittenberg,  and,  recognizing 
the  centrality  of  the  Bible  in  the  Reformation,  he  undertook  to  trans- 
late the  Bible  into  Finnish.  Agricola' s  translation  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment was  published  in  1548.  He  wrote  other  religious  works  and 
translated  parts  of  the  Old  Testament  as  well.  Because  Finnish  had 


11 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


not  appeared  previously  in  print,  Agricola  is  regarded  as  the  father 
of  the  Finnish  literary  language.  After  1554  he  served  as  the  bishop 
of  Turku,  the  highest  office  of  the  Finnish  church. 

The  Reformation  brought  two  educational  benefits  to  Finland. 
Its  emphasis  on  religious  instruction  in  the  vernacular  languages 
supported  an  increase  in  literacy,  especially  after  the  Ecclesiasti- 
cal Law  of  1686  had  confirmed  royal  control  over  the  Lutheran 
Church  of  Sweden- Finland  and  had  charged  it  with  teaching  the 
catechism  to  each  church  member.  Another  benefit  of  the  Refor- 
mation was  the  founding  of  Abo  Academy  in  1640  to  provide  the- 
ological training  for  Finnish  clergymen.  Abo  Academy  was  the 
precursor  of  the  University  of  Helsinki,  which  later  became  the 
center  of  higher  education  in  Finland  and  the  focus  of  Finland's 
cultural  life. 

Finland  and  the  Swedish  Empire 

During  his  reign,  Gustav  I  Vasa  concentrated  on  consolidating 
royal  power  in  the  dynasty  that  he  had  founded  and  on  furthering 
the  aims  of  the  Reformation.  In  the  process,  he  molded  Sweden 
into  a  great  power,  but  he  wisely  avoided  involvement  in  foreign 
wars.  His  successors,  however,  sought,  through  an  aggressive  for- 
eign policy,  to  expand  Sweden's  power  in  the  Baltic  area.  This  poli- 
cy produced  some  ephemeral  successes,  and  it  led  to  the  creation 
of  a  Swedish  empire  on  the  eastern  and  the  southern  shores  of  the 
Baltic  Sea  (see  fig.  4;  table  2,  Appendix  A). 

Beginning  in  the  mid-sixteenth  century,  Sweden's  ambitious  for- 
eign policy  brought  it  into  conflict  with  the  three  other  main  pow- 
ers that  had  an  interest  in  the  Baltic:  Denmark,  Poland,  and  Russia. 
These  three  powers  fought  numerous  wairs  with  Sweden,  which  was 
at  war  for  more  than  80  of  the  last  300  years  it  ruled  Finland.  Fin- 
land itself  was  often  the  scene  of  military  campaigns  that  were  gener- 
ally conducted  as  total  war  and  thus  included  the  devastation  of 
the  countryside  and  the  killing  of  civilians.  One  example  of  such 
campaigns  was  the  war  between  Sweden  and  Russia  that  lasted 
from  1570  to  1595  and  was  known  in  Finland  as  the  Long  Wrath, 
because  of  the  devastations  inflicted  on  the  country.  Sweden  was 
also  heavily  involved  in  the  Thirty  Years'  War  (1618-48),  in  which 
the  Swedes  under  King  Gustavus  II  Adolphus  thwarted  the 
advance  of  the  Habsburg  Empire  to  the  shores  of  the  Baltic  and 
thereby  secured  the  Swedish  possessions  there.  Finnish  troops  were 
conscripted  in  great  numbers  into  the  Swedish  army  to  fight  in  this 
or  in  other  wars,  and  the  Finns  often  distinguished  themselves  on 
the  batdefield. 

The  Great  Northern  W2ir  began  in  1 700  when  Denmark,  Poland, 


12 


Historical  Setting 


and  Russia  formed  an  alliance  to  take  advantage  of  Sweden's 
apparent  weakness  at  that  time  and  to  partition  the  Swedish  empire. 
Sweden's  youthful  king  Charles  XII  surprised  them,  however,  with 
a  series  of  military  victories  that  knocked  Denmark  out  of  the  war 
in  1700  and  Poland,  in  1706.  The  impetuous  Swedish  king  then 
marched  on  Moscow,  but  he  met  disaster  at  the  battle  of  Poltava 
in  1709.  As  a  result,  Denmark  and  Poland  rejoined  the  war  against 
Sweden.  Charles  attempted  to  compensate  for  Sweden's  territo- 
rial losses  in  the  Baltic  by  conquering  Norway,  but  he  was  killed 
in  action  there  in  1718.  His  death  removed  the  main  obstacle  to 
a  negotiated  peace  between  Sweden  and  the  alliance. 

The  Great  Northern  War  ended  on  August  30,  1721,  with  the 
signing  of  the  Peace  of  Uusikaupunki  (Swedish,  Nystad),  by  which 
Sweden  ceded  most  of  its  territories  on  the  southern  and  the  eastern 
shores  of  the  Baltic  Sea.  Sweden  was  also  forced  to  pay  a  large 
indemnity  to  Russia,  and,  in  return,  the  Russians  evacuated  Fin- 
land, retaining  only  some  territory  along  Finland's  southeastern 
border.  This  area  included  the  fortress  city  of  Viipuri.  As  a  result 
of  the  war,  Sweden's  power  was  much  reduced,  and  Russia  replaced 
Sweden  as  the  main  power  in  the  Baltic. 

Finland's  ability  to  defend  itself  had  been  impaired  by  the  famine 
of  1 696  in  which  about  one-third  of  the  Finnish  people  died  of  star- 
vation, a  toll  greater  than  that  caused  by  the  Black  Death  in  the 
fourteenth  century.  The  war's  greatest  impact  on  Finland,  beyond 
the  heavy  taxes  and  conscription,  was  caused  by  Russian  occupa- 
tion from  1714  to  1722,  a  period  of  great  difficulty,  remembered 
by  the  Finns  as  the  Great  Wrath.  The  hardships  of  being  conquered 
by  a  foreign  invader  were  compounded  by  Charles  XII's  insistence 
that  the  Finns  carry  on  partisan  warfare  against  the  Russians.  Much 
of  the  countryside  was  devastated  by  the  Russians  in  order  to  deny 
Finland's  resources  to  Sweden.  Of  the  nearly  60,000  Finns  who 
served  in  the  Swedish  army,  only  about  10,000  survived  the  Great 
Northern  War.  Finland's  prewar  population  of  400,000  was  reduced 
by  the  end  of  the  war  to  about  330,000. 

Charles  XII's  policies  led  to  the  repudiation  of  absolute  monar- 
chy in  Sweden  and  to  the  ushering  in  of  a  half-century  of  parliamen- 
tary supremacy,  referred  to  as  the  Age  of  Freedom.  One  major 
characteristic  of  this  era  was  the  strife  between  the  two  major  poli- 
tical parties,  the  Hats,  representing  the  upper  classes,  and  the  Caps, 
representing  the  lower  classes.  These  political  parties,  however, 
proved  no  more  competent  in  the  realm  of  foreign  affairs  than  the 
kings.  In  1741  the  Hats  led  Sweden  into  a  war  with  Russia  in  order 
to  try  to  undo  the  result  of  the  Peace  of  Uusikaupunki.  Russian 
forces  thereupon  invaded  Finland  and  began,  virtually  without  a 


13 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


0  100  Kilometers 
0  100  Miles 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  William  R.  Shepherd,  Historical  Atlas,  7th  ed.,  New 
York,  1929,  120. 


Figure  4.  Sweden-Finland,  Sixteenth  to  Eighteenth  Centuries 


14 


Historical  Setting 


fight,  a  short-lived  occupation  known  as  the  Lesser  Wrath.  In 
accordance  with  the  Peace  of  Turku  signed  in  1743,  Russia  once 
again  evacuated  Finland,  but  took  another  slice  of  Finnish  territory 
along  the  southeastern  frontier. 

King  Gustav  III,  who  in  1772  had  reimposed  absolutism  in 
Sweden,  also  tried  to  alter  the  verdict  of  the  Great  Northern  War. 
In  1788  Sweden  declared  war  against  Russia  with  the  intention 
of  regaining  territory  along  Finland's  eastern  frontier.  A  signifi- 
cant incident  during  that  war  was  the  mutiny  of  a  group  of  Fin- 
nish military  officers,  the  Anjala  League,  the  members  of  which 
hoped  to  avert  Russian  revenge  against  Finland.  A  leading  figure 
in  the  mutiny  was  a  former  colonel  in  the  Swedish  army,  Goran 
Sprengtporten.  Most  Finnish  officers  did  not  support  the  mutiny, 
which  was  promptly  put  down,  but  an  increasing  number  of  Finns, 
especially  Finnish  nobles,  were  weary  of  Finland's  serving  as  a  bat- 
deground  between  Sweden  and  Russia.  Because  of  Russia's  simul- 
taneous involvement  in  a  war  with  the  Ottoman  Empire,  Sweden 
was  able  to  secure  a  settlement  in  1790  in  the  Treaty  of  Varala, 
which  ended  the  war  without  altering  Finland's  boundaries. 

Sweden's  frequent  wars  were  expensive,  2ind  they  led  to  increased 
taxation,  among  other  measures  for  augmenting  state  revenues. 
A  system  of  government  controls  on  the  economy,  or  mercantilism, 
was  imposed  on  both  Sweden  and  Finland,  whereby  the  Finnish 
economy  was  exploited  for  the  benefit  of  Sweden.  In  addition  to 
hindering  Finland's  economic  development,  Sweden's  wars  ena- 
bled Swedish  aristocrats  and  military  officers  to  gain  large  estates 
in  Finland  as  a  reward  for  their  services.  The  Swedish-speaking 
minority  dominated  landholding,  government,  and  the  military. 
Although  free  of  serfdom,  peasants  paid  high  taxes,  and  they  had 
to  perform  labor  for  the  government.  Through  the  provincial 
assemblies,  the  peasants  retained  a  small  measure  of  political  power, 
but  the  Swedish-speaking  nobility  held  most  political  and  economic 
power  in  Finland. 

Throughout  this  period,  the  peasantry  continued  to  be  the  back- 
bone of  Finland's  predominandy  agrarian  society.  The  frontier  was 
pushed  northward  as  new  stretches  of  inland  wilderness  were  set- 
tled. The  potato  was  introduced  into  Finnish  agriculture  in  the 
1730s,  and  it  helped  to  ensure  a  stable  food  supply.  Although 
Finland's  trade  in  naval  stores — timber,  tar,  pitch,  resin — was 
expanded  considerably,  the  growth  of  an  indigenous  Finnish  mid- 
dle class  was  retarded  by  the  continuing  dominance  of  foreign  mer- 
chants, especially  the  Germans  and  the  Dutch. 

The  centuries-old  union  between  Sweden  and  Finland  came  to 
an  end  during  the  Napoleonic  wars.  France  and  Russia  became 


15 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

allies  in  1807  at  Tilsit,  and  Napoleon  subsequently  urged  Russia 
to  force  Sweden  into  joining  them  against  Britain.  Tsar  Alexander 
I  obliged  by  invading  Finland  in  1808,  and,  after  overwhelming 
Sweden's  poorly-organized  defenses,  he  conquered  Finland  in  1809. 
Sweden  formally  ceded  Finland  to  Russia  by  the  Treaty  of  Hami- 
na  (Swedish,  Fredrikshamn)  on  September  17,  1809. 

The  Russian  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland,  1809-1917 

Russia  planned  at  first  to  annex  Finland  directly  as  a  province 
of  the  Russian  Empire,  but  in  order  to  overcome  the  Finns'  mis- 
givings about  Russian  rule,  Tsar  Alexander  I  offered  them  the  fol- 
lowing solution.  Finland  was  not  annexed  to  the  Russian  Empire 
but  was  joined  to  Russia  instead  through  the  person  of  the  tsar. 
In  addition,  Finland  was  made  an  autonomous  state — the  Grand 
Duchy  of  Finland — v^th  its  inherited  traditions  intact.  Thus  the 
laws  and  constitution  of  Finland  remained  unchanged,  and  the  tsar 
took  the  place  of  the  Swedish  king  as  sovereign.  The  officiad  forms 
of  government  inherited  from  the  era  of  Swedish  absolutism  were 
sufficiently  autocratic  to  allow  the  tsar  to  accept  them  largely  intact; 
however,  included  in  these  forms  of  government  was  the  compre- 
hensive law  code  of  1734  that  protected  individual  rights.  Imperial 
assurances  that  Finland  would  be  autonomous  and  that  its  tradi- 
tions would  be  respected  were  encoded  in  two  1809  decrees  that 
constituted  for  the  Finns  the  basis  of  their  relationship  with  Rus- 
sia. The  Finnish  Diet  that  met  at  Porvoo  (Swedish,  Borga)  in  1809 
seconded  the  tsar's  decrees.  As  a  further  gesture  of  magnanimity, 
in  1812  the  tsar  restored  to  Finland  the  lands  Russia  had  annexed 
in  the  eighteenth  century.  These  conciliatory  measures  were  ef- 
fective, and,  as  long  as  Russia  respected  this  arrangement,  the  Finns 
proved  to  be  loycd  subjects  of  the  Russian  Empire  (see  fig.  5). 

According  to  the  terms  of  the  agreement  reached  between  the 
Diet  and  the  tsar,  the  government  of  Finland  was  direcdy  controlled 
by  the  tsar,  who  appointed  a  governor  general  as  his  adviser.  With 
one  brief  exception,  all  of  the  governors  general  were  Russian.  The 
first  governor  general  was  the  Swedish-Finn  Goran  Sprengtpor- 
ten,  who  was  ably  assisted  by  the  prominent  Swedish-Finn  politi- 
cian, Gustaf  Mauritz  Armfelt.  The  chief  instrument  of  government 
in  the  grand  duchy  was  the  Government  Council,  renamed  in  1816 
the  Senate,  which  was  composed  of  fourteen  Finns  appointed  by 
the  tsar.  The  counterpart  of  the  Senate  in  St.  Petersburg  was  the 
Committee  for  Finni^  Affairs,  composed  of  Finns,  which  presented 
Finnish  requests  to  the  tsar;  however,  Finnish  civil  servants  usually 
carried  on  the  business  of  government  with  little  interference  from 
the  tsarist  government  in  St.  Petersburg.  The  Diet  was  formally 


16 


Historical  Setting 


the  lawmaking  body  of  the  government;  it  could  not  initiate  legis- 
lation, however,  but  could  only  petition  the  tsar  to  introduce  legis- 
lation. The  tsar,  moreover,  could  summon  and  could  dismiss  the 
Senate  without  reference  to  the  Diet.  There  was  an  independent 
judicicd  system.  Finland  even  maintained  its  own  customs  system, 
and  taxes  collected  in  Finland  remained  in  the  country.  Finns  were 
exempted  from  conscription  into  the  Russian  army. 

Despite  these  safeguards,  Finland  still  felt  the  autocracy  of  the 
tsar.  The  Finnish  Diet  was  dismissed  in  1809,  and  it  was  not  recon- 
vened for  more  than  fifty  years.  Although  the  government  of  the 
grand  duchy  represented  an  uneasy  balance  between  the  traditions 
of  Finnish  self-government  and  those  of  Russian  autocracy,  as  long 
as  the  Russians  respected  the  balance,  the  Finnish  people  were  satis- 
fied. The  period  of  Russian  rule  was  characterized  by  peaceful 
internal  development,  largely  because,  for  the  first  time  in  centu- 
ries, Finland  was  free  of  war. 

The  Rise  of  Finnish  Nationalism 

The  eighteenth  century  had  witnessed  the  appearance  of 
embryonic  Finnish  nationalism.  Originating  as  an  academic  move- 
ment, it  incorporated  the  study  of  linguistics,  folklore,  and  history, 
which  helped  to  establish  a  sense  of  national  identity  for  the  Fin- 
nish people.  The  leading  figure  of  this  movement  was  professor 
Henrik  Gabriel  Porthan  of  the  University  of  Turku.  The  work  of 
Porthan  and  others  was  an  expression  of  the  Finns'  growing  doubts 
about  Swedish  rule,  and  it  prefigured  the  rise  of  Finnish  national- 
ism in  the  nineteenth  century. 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  Finland  witnessed  the  rise  of  not  one 
but  two  national  movements:  Finnish-language  nationalism  and 
Swedish-language  nationalism.  The  creation  of  the  independent 
Finnish  state  in  the  twentieth  century  was  made  possible  in  large 
part  by  these  nationalist  movements. 

Finnish-language  nationEilism  arose  in  the  nineteenth  century, 
in  part  as  a  reaction  against  the  dominance  of  the  Swedish  lan- 
guage in  Finland's  cultural  and  political  life.  The  ethnic  self- 
consciousness  of  Finnish  speakers  was  given  a  considerable  boost 
by  the  Russian  conquest  of  Finland  in  1809,  because  ending  the 
connection  with  Sweden  forced  Finns  to  define  themselves  with 
respect  to  the  Russians.  At  first  the  Russian  government  generally 
supported  Finnish  linguistic  nationadism,  seeing  it  as  a  way  to 
alienate  the  Finns  from  Sweden  and  thereby  to  preclude  any  move- 
ment toward  reintegration.  For  the  same  reason,  the  Russians  in 
1812  moved  the  capital  of  Finland  from  Turku  to  Helsinki,  bring- 
ing it  closer  to  St.  Petersburg.  Similarly,  after  a  catastrophic  fire 


17 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Hugh  Seton-Watson,  The  Russian  Empire  1801-1917, 
Oxford,  1967,  774 


Figured.  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland,  1809-1917 


18 


Historical  Setting 


in  Turku,  the  University  of  Turku  was  moved  to  Helsinki  in  1827. 
The  University  of  Helsinki  soon  became  the  center  of  the  Finnish 
nationalist  movement.  Finnish-language  nationalism,  or  the  Fen- 
noman  movement,  became  the  most  powerful  political  force  in 
nineteenth-century  Finland.  A  famous  phrase  of  uncertain  origin 
that  was  coined  in  the  early  nineteenth  century  summed  up  Fin- 
nish feelings  as  follows:  "We  are  no  longer  Swedes;  we  cannot 
become  Russians;  we  must  be  Finns." 

The  leading  Finnish  nationalist  spokesman  was  Johan  Vilhelm 
Snellman  (1806-81),  who  saw  increasing  the  use  of  the  Finnish  lan- 
guage as  a  way  for  Finland  to  avoid  assimilation  by  Russia. 
Snellman  stressed  the  importance  of  literature  in  fostering  national 
consciousness;  until  the  nineteenth  century,  however,  there  had 
been  almost  nothing  published  in  Finnish  except  for  religious  works. 
The  publication  in  1835  of  the  Kalevala,  the  Finnish  folk  epic,  filled 
the  void,  and  in  the  late  twentieth  century  the  Kalevala  continued 
to  be  the  single  most  important  work  of  Finnish  literature.  Its  author 
was  a  country  doctor  named  Elias  Lonnrot,  who,  while  practicing 
medicine  along  Finland's  eastern  border,  compiled  hundreds  of  folk 
ballads  that  he  wove  together  into  an  epic  poem  of  nearly  23,000 
lines.  In  the  years  following  the  publication  of  the  Kalevala,  numer- 
ous other  works  of  Finnish  literature  were  published.  Of  special 
importance  was  the  work  of  the  Swedish-language  poet  Johan  Lud- 
vig  Runeberg  (1804-77),  who  authored  a  collection  of  poems  called 
The  Tales  of  Ensign  Stdl.  The  first  poem  of  the  cycle,  called  "Our 
Land,"  was  soon  set  to  music,  and  it  became  the  national  anthem 
of  Finland. 

The  growth  of  the  militant  and  increasingly  powerful  Fennoman 
movement  threatened  the  traditional  dominance  of  the  Swedish 
speakers  in  Finland,  who  reacted  by  forming  a  Swedish- speaking 
nationalist  countermovement,  the  Svecoman  movement.  The  main 
idea  of  the  Svecomans  was  that  the  Swedish- speakers  of  Finland 
were  a  separate  nation  from  the  Finnish- speakers  and  needed  to 
preserve  their  Swedish  language  and  culture.  The  Svecomans 
became  a  small  but  powerful  political  movement  that  won  the  back- 
ing of  much  of  the  Swedish- speaking  community  in  Finland. 

A  third  political  faction  at  this  time  was  the  short-lived  Liberal 
Party.  This  party  sought  to  obtain  reforms  for  Finland,  especially 
freedom  of  the  press,  greater  self-government,  and  increased  eco- 
nomic freedom.  It  was  split,  however,  by  the  growing  language 
controversy,  and  most  of  its  members  were  absorbed  into  either 
the  Fennomans  or  the  Svecomans. 

Emerging  as  a  debate  among  educated  Finns,  the  nationalist 
movement  reached  ever  wider  circles  of  the  Finnish  people  in 


19 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

succeeding  decades  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Major  breakthroughs 
for  the  Finnish-language  movement  were  made  possible  by  Rus- 
sia's humiliating  defeat  in  the  Crimean  War  (1853-56),  which 
opened  up  an  era  of  reform  in  Russia.  For  example,  in  1858  Fin- 
nish was  established  as  the  language  of  local  self-government  in 
those  administrative  districts  where  it  was  spoken  by  the  majority 
of  the  inhabitants. 

When  Poland  revolted  in  1863,  the  Finns  remained  at  peace, 
and  the  Russian  government  showed  its  gratitude  by  granting  the 
Finns  two  major  imperial  edicts.  The  first  summoned  the  Finnish 
Diet  for  the  first  time  since  1809,  an  event  that  had  long-term  reper- 
cussions. The  Diet  enacted  legislation  establishing  a  separate  Fin- 
nish monetary  system  and  creating  a  separate  Finnish  army.  The 
subsequent  regular  meetings  of  the  Diet  gave  the  Finns  valuable 
experience  in  parliamentary  politics.  The  second  edict  of  1863  was 
the  Language  Ordinance,  which  over  a  period  of  twenty  years  gave 
the  Finnish  language  a  status  equal  to  that  of  Swedish  in  official 
business.  Although  Swedish  speakers  found  ways  of  blocking  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Language  Ordinamce,  it  still  made  pos- 
sible a  vast  expansion  of  the  Finnish  language  school  system.  Ulti- 
mately, the  Language  Ordinance  led  to  the  creation  of  an  educated 
class  of  Finnish  speakers,  who  provided  articulate  mass  support 
for  the  nationalist  cause. 

Social  and  Economic  Developments 

Over  the  centuries,  Finland  underwent  various  political  changes, 
but  its  society  and  economy  remained  fairly  static.  At  the  begin- 
ning of  the  nineteenth  century,  Finland  was  a  predominandy  agrar- 
ian country;  about  90  percent  of  its  population  was  engaged  in 
farming.  The  scourges  of  war  and  famine  had  kept  down  the  popu- 
lation, which  in  1810  numbered  somewhat  under  900,000,  only 
about  5  percent  of  which  lived  in  cities. 

Except  for  some  copper,  Finland  was  without  important  miner- 
al deposits.  During  the  nineteenth  century,  its  sole  natural  resource 
was  timber,  and  this  became  to  be  the  basis  on  which  industriali- 
zation was  launched.  By  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  wood  was 
beginning  to  be  in  short  supply  in  Central  Europe  and  in  Western 
Europe,  but  at  the  same  time  it  was  needed  in  unprecedented  quan- 
tities for  railroad  ties,  mineshaft  supports,  construction,  and  paper 
production.  Finland  thus  found  a  ready  and  expanding  market  for 
its  wood. 

The  development  of  the  lumber  industry  was  retarded  for  a  time, 
however,  by  the  lack  of  a  modern  economic  infrastructure.  Into 
the  breach  stepped  the  Finnish  government,  which  promulgated 


20 


Historical  Setting 


a  number  of  measures  aimed  at  creating  the  needed  infrastructure. 
Railroads  and  inland  waterways  were  developed,  beginning  in  the 
1850s  and  the  1860s,  to  connect  the  interior  of  the  country  with 
the  coast;  and  harbor  facilities  were  built  that,  through  merchant 
shipping,  connected  Finland  with  the  rest  of  the  world.  In  addi- 
tion, the  Bank  of  Finland  and  the  monetary  system  were  reor- 
ganized, antiquated  laws  restricting  economic  activity  were 
repealed,  and  tariff  duties  on  many  items  were  reduced  or  were 
abolished;  thus,  the  Finnish  government  promoted  industrializa- 
tion and  general  progress  in  Finland. 

The  1860s  and  the  1870s  witnessed  a  tremendous  boom  in  the 
Finnish  lumber  industry,  which  put  Finland  on  the  road  to  indus- 
trialization. Between  then  and  1914,  the  lumber  industry  spawned 
a  number  of  associated  industries  for  the  production  of  wood  pulp, 
paper,  matches,  cellulose,  and  plywood.  The  profits  eaimed  in  these 
industries  led  in  turn  to  the  creation  of  numerous  other  enterprises 
that  produced,  among  other  things,  textiles,  cement,  and  meted 
products.  Finland's  leading  trading  partner  by  1910  was  Germany, 
followed  by  Russia  and  Britain.  The  trade  in  lumber  products  also 
stimulated  the  rise  of  a  relatively  large  and  modern  Finnish  mer- 
chant marine,  which,  after  1900,  carried  about  half  of  Finland's 
foreign  trade.  Meanwhile,  however,  the  steady  conversion  of  mer- 
chant shipping  from  wooden-hulled  sailing  ships  to  iron-hulled  and 
steel-hulled  steamships  curtailed  Finland's  traditional  export  of 
naval  stores. 

The  growth  of  industry  was  accompanied  by  the  emergence  of 
an  urban  working  class.  As  in  early  industrialization  elsewhere, 
the  living  and  working  conditions  of  the  new  industrial  laborers 
were  poor,  and  these  laborers  sought  to  improve  their  situation 
through  trade  unions.  Trade  unions  were  legalized  in  1883,  and 
soon  a  number  of  them  were  established,  including,  in  1907,  a 
national  trade  union  organization,  the  Finnish  Trade  Union  Fed- 
eration (Suomen  Ammattijarjesto — SAJ).  Workers  founded  a 
political  party  in  1899  to  represent  them  in  the  Diet,  and  in  1903 
it  was  renamed  the  Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party  (Suomen 
Sosialidemokraattinen  Puolue — SDP).  By  the  elections  of  1907,  the 
SDP  was  already  the  largest  single  party  in  politics.  Both  the  SAJ 
and  the  SDP  were  heavily  influenced  by  their  counterparts  in  Ger- 
many, and,  as  a  consequence,  their  doctrines  had  a  pronounced 
Marxist  character.  The  SDP  grew  even  more  radical,  in  part 
because  of  the  resistance  of  the  middle-class  parties  to  virtually  all 
aspects  of  social  reform,  but  also  because  of  its  strict  adherence 
to  the  Marxist  dogma  of  class  conflict.  One  example  of  its  radical- 
ism was  its  persistent  unwillingness  to  cooperate  with  any  of  the 


21 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


other  political  parties.  Another  was  its  program,  which  began  in 
1911  to  change  from  upholding  the  right  of  farmers  to  own  their 
own  land  to  demanding  that  land  be  nationalized — a  change  that 
cost  the  SDP  most  of  its  support  among  agricultural  laborers. 

In  spite  of  industrialization,  Finland  in  the  early  twentieth  cen- 
tury was  still  predominantly  an  agrarian  state.  Agriculture  also  had 
undergone  modernization,  however,  a  process  that  had  had  a  sig- 
nificant impact  on  Finland.  The  introduction  of  the  potato  in  the 
eighteenth  century  had  significantly  reduced  the  threat  of  famine; 
the  gradual  introduction  of  scientific  agricultural  techniques  dur- 
ing the  nineteenth  century  had  brought  about  further  increases  in 
productivity. 

The  ultimate  consequence  of  this  increased  agricultural  produc- 
tivity was  a  significant  increase  of  the  population  from  865,000  in 
1810  to  2,950,000  in  1910.  Some  of  this  surplus  rural  population 
was  absorbed  by  the  growing  urban  factory  centers,  but  the  rest 
of  these  people  were  forced  to  stay  on  the  land.  Because  the  amount 
of  arable  land  in  Finland  was  limited,  about  two-thirds  or  more 
of  the  agricultural  population  was  relegated  to  the  status  of  tenant 
farmers  and  landless  agricultural  laborers.  These  people's  lives  were 
precarious  because  of  their  large  numbers  and  their  dependence 
on  the  vagaries  of  the  harvests.  The  tsarist  government  did  little 
on  their  behalf,  and  the  Diet,  which  was  dominated  by  middle- 
class  interests,  showed  no  great  concern  for  them.  As  a  result,  from 
about  1870  to  1920,  approximately  380,000  people  left  Finland, 
more  than  90  percent  of  them  for  the  United  States.  Of  those  re- 
maining in  Finland,  many  were  initially  attracted  by  the  SDP,  until 
its  pronounced  atheistic  outlook  and  its  aim  of  nationalizing  land 
alienated  them.  A  program  of  land  reform,  begun  after  indepen- 
dence, eventually  integrated  these  agricultural  laborers  into  the  Fin- 
nish economy. 

One  expression  of  popular  discontent  with  the  status  quo  dur- 
ing the  nineteenth  century  was  the  rise  of  religious  movements  that 
challenged  the  formalistic  and  rationalistic  Lutheran  state  church. 
Of  special  significance  was  the  Pietist  movement,  in  which  the 
farmer-evangelist  Paavo  Ruotsalainen  (1777-1852)  was  the  most 
important  figure  (see  Lutheran  Church  of  Finland,  ch.  2).  The 
Pietists  popularized  the  notion  of  personal  religion,  an  idea  that 
appealed  to  the  agrarian  population.  Pietism  eventually  had  much 
influence  within  the  Lutheran  Church  of  Finland;  it  was  also  in- 
fluential among  Finnish  emigrants  to  the  United  States,  where, 
among  other  things,  it  provided  an  effective  counterweight  to  Fin- 
nish political  radicalism. 


22 


Historical  Setting 


The  Era  of  Russification 

The  Russian  Empire  in  the  late  nineteenth  century  faced  a  num- 
ber of  seemingly  intractable  problems  associated  with  its  general 
backwardness.  At  the  same  time,  ethnocentric,  authoritarian  Rus- 
sian nationalism  was  on  the  rise,  as  manifested  both  in  an  aggres- 
sive foreign  policy  and  in  a  growing  intolerance  of  non-Russian 
minorities  within  the  empire.  The  Russian  government  began 
implementing  a  program  of  Russification  that  included  the  impo- 
sition of  the  Russian  language  in  schools  and  in  governmental 
administration.  The  goal  of  these  measures  was  to  bring  non- 
Russian  peoples  into  the  Russian  cultural  sphere  and  under  more 
direct  political  control.  Poles  bore  the  brunt  of  the  Russification 
policies,  but  eventually  other  non-Russian  peoples  also  began  to 
feel  its  pressure. 

Russian  nationalists  considered  the  autonomous  state  of  Finland 
an  anomcdy  in  an  empire  that  strove  to  be  a  unified  autocratic  state; 
furthermore,  by  the  1890s  Russian  nationalists  had  several  rea- 
sons to  favor  the  Russification  of  Finland.  First,  continued  suspi- 
cions about  Finnish  separatism  gained  plausibility  with  the  rise  of 
Finnish  nationalism.  Second,  Finnish  commercial  competition 
began  in  the  1880s.  Third,  Russia  feared  that  Germany  might 
capitalize  on  its  considerable  influence  in  Sweden  to  use  Finland 
as  a  staging  base  for  an  invasion  of  Russia.  The  Russian  govern- 
ment was  concerned  especially  for  the  security  of  St.  Petersburg. 
Fourth,  there  was  a  growing  desire  that  the  Finns,  who  enjoyed 
the  protection  of  the  Russian  Empire,  should  contribute  to  that 
protection  by  allowing  the  conscription  of  Finnish  youths  into  the 
Russian  army.  These  military  considerations  were  decisive  in  lead- 
ing the  tsarist  government  to  implement  Russification,  and  it  was 
a  Russian  military  officer,  Nikolai  Ivanovich  Bobrikov,  who,  in 
October  1898,  became  the  new  governor  general  and  the  eventual 
instrument  of  the  policy. 

The  first  major  measure  of  Russification  was  the  February 
Manifesto  of  1899,  an  imperial  decree  that  asserted  the  right  of 
the  tsarist  government  to  rule  Finland  without  consulting  either 
the  Finnish  Senate  or  the  Diet.  This  decree  relegated  Finland  to 
the  status  of  the  other  provinces  of  the  Russian  Empire,  and  it 
cleared  the  way  for  further  Russification.  The  response  of  the  Finns 
was  swift  and  overwhelming.  Protest  petitions  circulated  rapidly 
throughout  Finland,  and  they  gathered  more  than  500,000  signa- 
tures. In  March  1899,  these  petitions  were  collected,  and  they  were 
submitted  to  the  tsar,  who  chose  to  ignore  this  so-called  Great 
Address.  The  February  Manifesto  was  followed  by  the  Language 


23 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Manifesto  of  1900,  which  was  aimed  at  making  Russian  the  main 
administrative  language  in  government  offices. 

In  spite  of  the  impressive  show  of  unity  displayed  in  the  Great 
Address,  the  Finns  were  divided  over  how  to  respond  to  Russifi- 
cation.  Those  most  opposed  to  Russification  were  the  Constitu- 
tionalists, who  stressed  their  adherence  to  Finland's  traditional 
system  of  government  and  their  desire  to  have  it  respected  by  the 
Russian  government.  The  Constitutionalists  formed  a  political  front 
that  included  a  group  of  Finnish  speakers,  called  the  Young  Finns, 
and  most  Swedish  speakers.  Another  party  of  Finnish  speakers, 
called  the  Old  Finns,  represented  those  who  were  tempted  to  com- 
ply with  Russification,  partly  out  of  a  recognition  of  their  own 
powerlessness  and  partly  out  of  a  desire  to  use  the  Russians  to 
undermine  the  influence  of  Swedish  speakers  in  Finland.  These 
Finns  were  also  called  Compliants,  but  by  1910  the  increasingly 
unreasonable  demands  of  the  tsarist  government  showed  their 
position  to  be  untenable.  The  SDP  favored  the  Constitutionalists, 
insolar  as  it  favored  any  middle-class  party. 

The  measure  that  transformed  Finnish  resistance  into  a  mass 
movement  was  the  new  conscription  law  promulgated  by  the  tsar 
in  July  1901.  On  the  basis  of  the  February  Manifesto,  the  tsar 
enacted  a  law  for  Finl2ind  that  dramatically  aJtered  the  nature  of 
the  Finnish  army.  Established  originally  as  an  independent  army 
with  the  sole  mission  of  defending  Finland,  the  Finnish  army  was 
now  incorporated  into  the  Russian  army  and  was  made  available 
for  action  anywhere.  Again  the  Finns  responded  with  a  massive 
petition  containing  about  half  a  million  signatures,  and  again  it 
was  ignored  by  the  tsar;  however,  this  time  the  Finns  did  not  let 
matters  rest  with  a  petition,  but  rather  followed  it  up  with  a  cam- 
paign of  passive  resistance.  Finnish  men  eligible  for  conscription 
were  first  called  up  under  the  new  law  in  1902,  but  they  responded 
with  the  so-called  Army  Strike — only  about  half  of  them  reported 
for  duty.  The  proportion  of  eligible  Finns  complying  with  the  draft 
rose  in  1903,  however,  from  about  half  to  two- thirds  and,  in  1904, 
to  about  four-fifths.  The  high  incidence  of  non-compliance  neverthe- 
less convinced  the  Russian  military  command  that  the  Finns  were 
unreliable  for  military  purposes,  and,  as  a  consequence,  the  Finns 
were  released  from  military  service  in  return  for  the  levy  of  an  extra 
tax,  which  they  were  to  pay  to  the  imperial  government. 

The  Finns'  victory  in  the  matter  of  conscription  was  not  achieved 
until  the  revolution  of  1905  in  Russia.  In  the  meantime,  the  Rus- 
sian government  had  resorted  to  repressive  measures  against  the 
Finns.  They  had  purged  the  Finnish  civil  service  of  opponents  of 
Russification;  they  had  expanded  censorship;  and,  in  April  1903, 


24 


Historical  Setting 


they  had  granted  dictatorial  powers  to  Governor  General  Bobrikov. 
These  years  also  witnessed  the  growth  of  an  active  aind  conspiratorial 
resistance  to  Russification,  called  the  Kagal  after  a  similar  Jewish 
resistamce  orgeinization  in  Russia.  In  June  1904,  the  active  resistance 
succeeded  in  assassinating  Bobrikov,  and  his  death  brought  a  les- 
sening of  the  pressure  on  Finland. 

The  first  era  of  Russification  came  to  an  end  with  the  outbreak 
of  revolution  in  Russia.  The  general  strike  that  beg2in  in  Russia 
in  October  1905  spread  quickly  to  Finland  cind  led  there,  as  in  Rus- 
sia, to  the  assumption  of  most  real  power  by  the  local  strike  com- 
mittees. As  in  Russia,  the  revolutionary  situation  was  defused 
quickly  by  the  sweeping  reforms  promised  in  the  tscir's  October 
Manifesto,  which  for  the  Finns  suspended,  but  did  not  rescind, 
the  February  Manifesto,  the  conscription  law,  and  Bobrikov's  dic- 
tatori2il  measures. 

In  1906,  the  tsar  proposed  that  the  antiquated  Finnish  Diet  be 
replaced  by  a  modern,  unicameral  parliament.  The  Finns  accepted 
the  proposal,  and  the  Eduskunta  was  created.  Also  included  in  the 
tsar's  proposal  was  the  provision  that  the  parliament  be  elected  by 
universal  suffrage,  a  plan  that  the  Finns  accepted,  thanks  to  the 
spirit  of  national  solidarity  they  had  gained  through  the  struggle 
against  Russification.  The  number  of  eligible  voters  was  increased 
thereby  from  125,000  to  1,125,000,  and  Finland  became  the  second 
country,  after  New  Zealand,  to  allow  women  to  vote.  When  the 
new  parliament  met  in  1907,  the  SDP  was  the  largest  single  party, 
with  80  of  200  seats. 

Partly  out  of  frustration  that  the  revolution  of  1905  had  not 
accomplished  more,  the  Finnish  SDP  became  increasingly  radi- 
cal. Foreshadowing  the  civil  war,  the  short-lived  revolutionary  peri- 
od also  brought  about,  in  1906,  the  first  armed  clash  between  the 
private  armies  of  the  workers  (Red  Guard)  and  the  middle  classes 
(Civil  Guard  or  White  Guard).  Thus  the  Finns  were  increasingly 
united  in  their  opposition  to  Russification,  but  they  were  split  on 
other  major  issues. 

By  1908  the  Russian  government  had  recovered  its  confidence 
sufficiently  to  resume  the  program  of  Russification,  and  in  1910 
Russian  prime  minister  Pyotr  Stolypin  easily  persuaded  the  Rus- 
sian parliament,  the  Duma,  to  pass  a  law  that  ended  most  aspects 
of  Finnish  autonomy.  By  1914  the  Finnish  constitution  had  been 
greatly  weakened,  and  Finland  was  ruled  from  St.  Petersburg  as 
a  subject  province  of  the  empire. 

The  outbreak  of  World  War  I  had  no  immediate  effects  on  Fin- 
land because  Finns — except  for  a  number  of  Finnish  officers  in  the 
Russian  army — did  not  fight  in  it,  and  Finland  itself  was 


25 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


not  the  scene  of  fighting.  Finland  suffered  from  the  war  in  a  variety 
of  ways,  nevertheless.  Cut  off  from  overseas  markets,  Finland's 
primary  industry — lumber — experienced  a  severe  decline,  with 
layoffs  of  many  workers.  Some  of  the  unemployed  were  absorbed 
by  increased  production  in  the  metal-working  industry,  and  others 
found  work  constructing  fortifications  in  Finland.  By  1917  short- 
ages of  food  had  become  a  major  problem,  contributing  further 
to  the  distress  of  Finnish  workers.  In  addition,  sizable  contingents 
of  the  Russian  army  and  navy  were  stationed  in  Finland.  These 
forces  were  intended  to  prevent  a  German  incursion  through  Fin- 
land, and  by  1917  they  numbered  more  than  100,000  men.  The 
Finns  disliked  having  so  many  Russians  in  their  country,  and  all 
of  this  discontent  played  into  the  hands  of  the  SDP,  the  main  op- 
position party,  which  in  the  1916  parliamentary  elections  won  103 
of  200  seats  in  the  Eduskunta — an  absolute  majority. 

There  were  no  longer  any  doubts  about  Russia's  long-term 
objectives  for  Finland  after  November  1914,  when  the  Finnish  press 
published  the  Russian  government's  secret  program  for  the  com- 
plete Russification  of  Finland.  Germany  appeared  as  the  only  power 
capable  of  helping  Finland,  and  many  Finns  thus  hoped  that  Ger- 
many would  win  the  war,  seeing  in  Russia's  defeat  the  best  means 
of  obtaining  independence.  The  German  leadership,  for  its  part, 
hoped  to  further  its  war  effort  against  Russia  by  aiding  the  Finns. 
In  1915,  about  2,000  young  Finns  began  receiving  military  train- 
ing in  Germany.  Organized  in  a  jaeger  (light  infantry)  battalion, 
these  Finns  saw  action  on  the  eastern  front. 

By  1917,  despite  the  divisions  among  the  Finns,  there  was  an 
emerging  unanimity  that  Finland  must  achieve  its  independence 
from  Russia.  Then  in  March  1917,  revolution  broke  out  in  Rus- 
sia, the  tsar  abdicated,  and  within  a  few  days  the  revolution  spread 
to  Finland.  The  tsarist  regime  had  been  discredited  by  its  failures 
and  had  been  toppled  by  revolutionary  means,  but  it  was  not  yet 
clear  what  would  t2ike  its  place. 

Independence  and  the  Interwar  Era,  1917-39 

More  than  a  century  of  Russian  rule  in  Finland  ended  in  1917. 
The  Finns,  however,  experienced  no  easy  transition  to  indepen- 
dence, but  rather  endured  a  bloody  civil  war  between  their  own 
leftist  Reds  and  rightist  Whites.  Finally,  a  leftist  takeover  was 
averted;  Finland's  independence  was  secured;  and  a  parliamen- 
tary democracy  emerged  (see  fig.  6). 

The  Finnish  Civil  War 

The  Revolution  that  was  underway  in  Russia  by  March  8,  1917, 


26 


Historical  Setting 


spread  to  Helsinki  on  March  16,  when  the  Russian  fleet  in  Hel- 
sinki mutinied.  The  Provisional  Government  promulgated  the 
so-called  March  Manifesto,  which  cancelled  all  previous  uncon- 
stitutional legislation  of  the  tsarist  government  regarding  Finland. 
The  Finns  overwhelmingly  favored  independence,  but  the  Provi- 
sional Government  granted  them  neither  independence  nor  any 
real  political  power,  except  in  the  realm  of  administration.  As  during 
the  Revolution  of  1905,  most  actual  power  in  Finland  was  wielded 
by  the  local  strike  committees,  of  which  there  were  usually  two: 
one,  middle-class;  the  other,  working-class.  Also  as  before,  each 
of  the  two  factions  in  Finnish  society  had  its  own  private  army: 
the  middle  class,  the  Civil  Guard;  and  the  workers,  the  Red  Guard. 
The  disintegration  of  the  normal  organs  of  administration  and 
order,  especially  the  police,  and  their  replacement  by  local  strike 
committees  and  militias  unsettled  society  and  led  to  a  growing  sense 
of  unease. 

Contention  among  political  factions  grew.  The  SDP  first  sought 
to  use  its  parliamentary  majority  to  increase  its  power  at  the  expense 
of  the  Provisional  Government.  In  July  1917,  it  passed  the  so-called 
Power  Act,  which  made  the  legislature  supreme  in  Finland,  and 
which  reserved  only  matters  of  foreign  affairs  and  defense  for  the 
Provisional  Government.  The  latter  thereupon  dissolved  the  Fin- 
nish parliament  and  called  for  new  elections.  The  campaign  for 
these  new  elections  was  bitterly  fought  between  the  socialists  and 
the  nonsocialists.  Violence  between  elements  of  the  middle  class 
and  the  working  class  escalated  at  this  time,  and  murders  were  com- 
mitted by  both  sides.  The  nonsocialists  won  in  the  election,  reduc- 
ing the  socialist  contingent  in  the  parliament  to  92  of  200  seats, 
below  the  threshold  of  an  absolute  majority. 

Meanwhile,  the  socialists  were  becoming  disillusioned  with 
parliamentary  politics.  Their  general  failure  to  accomplish  anything, 
using  parliamentary  action,  from  1907  to  1917  contrasted  strongly 
with  their  successes  in  the  1905  to  1906  period,  using  direct  action. 
By  autumn  1917,  the  trend  in  the  SDP  was  for  the  rejection  of 
parliamentary  means  in  favor  of  revolutionary  action.  The  high 
unemployment  and  the  serious  food  shortages  suffered,  in  partic- 
ular, by  the  Finnish  urban  workers  accelerated  the  growth  of  revolu- 
tionary fervor.  The  SDP  proposed  a  comprehensive  program  of 
social  reform,  known  as  the  We  Demand  {Me  vaadimme)  in  late 
October  1917,  but  it  was  rejected  by  parliament,  now  controlled 
by  the  middle  class.  Acts  of  politiccil  violence  then  became  more 
frequent.  Finnish  society  was  gradually  dividing  into  two  camps, 
both  armed,  and  both  intent  on  total  victory. 

The  Bolshevik  takeover  in  Russia  in  November  1917  heightened 


27 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Eino  Jutikkala  and  Kauko  Pirinen,  A  History  of  Finland, 
New  York,  1962,  152. 


Figure  6.  Republic  of  Finland,  1917-40 


28 


Historical  Setting 


emotions  in  Finland.  For  the  middle  classes,  the  Bolsheviks  aroused 
the  specter  of  living  under  revolutionary  socialism.  Workers, 
however,  were  inspired  by  the  apparent  efficacy  of  revolutionary 
action.  The  success  of  the  Bolsheviks  emboldened  the  Finnish  wor- 
kers to  begin  a  general  strike  on  November  14,  1917,  and  within 
forty-eight  hours  they  controlled  most  of  the  country.  The  most 
radical  workers  wanted  to  convert  the  general  strike  into  a  full  sei- 
zure of  power,  but  they  were  dissuaded  by  the  SDP  leaders,  who 
were  still  committed  to  democratic  procedures  and  who  helped  to 
bring  an  end  to  the  strike  by  November  20.  Already  there  were 
armed  clashes  between  the  Red  Guards  cind  the  White  Guards; 
during  and  after  the  general  strike,  a  number  of  people  were  killed. 

Following  the  general  strike,  the  middle  and  the  upper  classes 
were  in  no  mood  for  compromise,  particularly  because  arms  ship- 
ments and  the  return  of  some  jaegers  from  Germany  were  trans- 
forming the  White  Guards  into  a  credible  fighting  force.  In 
November  a  middle-class  government  was  established  under  the 
tough  and  uncompromising  Pehr  Evind  Svinhufvud,  and  on 
December  6,  1917,  it  declared  Finland  independent.  Since  then, 
December  6  has  been  celebrated  in  Finland  as  Independence  Day. 
True  to  his  April  Theses  that  called  for  the  self-determination  of 
nations,  Lenin's  Bolshevik  government  recognized  Finland's 
independence  on  December  31. 

Throughout  December  1917  and  January  1918,  the  Svinhufvud 
government  demonstrated  that  it  would  make  no  concessions  to 
the  socialists  and  that  it  would  rule  without  them.  The  point  of 
no  return  probably  was  passed  on  January  9,  1918,  when  the 
government  authorized  the  White  Guard  to  act  as  a  state  security 
force  and  to  establish  law  and  order  in  Finland.  That  decision  in 
turn  encouraged  the  workers  to  make  a  preemptive  strike,  and  in 
the  succeeding  days,  revolutionary  elements  took  over  the  socialist 
movement  and  called  for  a  general  uprising  to  begin  on  the  night 
of  Jainuary  27-28,  1918.  Meanwhile,  the  government  had  appointed 
a  Swedish-speaking  Finn  and  former  tsarist  general,  Carl  Gustaf 
Emil  Mannerheim  (1867-1951),  as  the  commander  of  its  military 
forces,  soon  to  be  called  the  Whites.  Independently  of  the  Reds, 
Mannerheim  also  called  for  military  action  to  begin  on  the  night 
of  January  27-28.  Whether  or  not  the  civil  war  was  avoidable  has 
been  debated  ever  since,  but  both  sides  must  share  in  the  respon- 
sibility for  its  outbreak  because  of  their  unwillingness  to  com- 
promise. 

Within  a  few  days  of  the  outbreak  of  the  civil  war,  the  front  lines 
had  stabilized.  The  Whites,  whose  troops  were  mosdy  farmers,  con- 
trolled the  northern  and  more  rural  part  of  the  country.  The  Reds, 


29 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


who  drew  most  of  their  support  from  the  urban  working  class,  con- 
trolled the  southern  part  of  the  country,  as  well  as  the  major  cities 
and  industrial  centers  and  about  one-h2ilf  of  the  population.  The 
Red  forces  numbered  100,000  to  140,000  during  the  course  of  the 
war,  whereas  the  Whites  mustered  at  most  about  70,000. 

The  soldiers  of  both  armies  displayed  great  heroism  on  the  bat- 
tlefield; nevertheless,  the  Whites  had  a  number  of  telling  advan- 
tages— probably  the  most  important  of  which  was  professional 
leadership — that  made  them  the  superior  force.  Mannerheim,  the 
Whites'  military  leader,  was  a  professional  soldier  who  was  experi- 
enced in  conducting  large-scale  operations,  and  his  strategic  judg- 
ment guided  the  White  cause  almost  flawlessly.  He  was  aided  by 
the  influx  of  jaegers  from  Germany,  most  of  whom  were  allowed 
to  return  to  Finland  in  February  1918.  The  White  side  also  had 
a  number  of  professional  Swedish  military  officers,  who  brought 
military  professionalism  even  to  the  small-unit  level.  In  addition ,^ 
beginning  in  February,  the  Whites  had  better  equipment,  most  of 
which  was  supplied  by  Germany.  Finally,  the  Whites  had  the  benefit 
of  more  effective  foreign  intervention  on  their  side.  The  approxi- 
mately 40,000  Russian  troops  remaining  in  Finland  in  January  1918 
helped  the  Finnish  Reds  to  a  small  extent,  especially  in  such  tech- 
nical areas  as  artillery,  but  these  troops  were  withdrawn  after  the 
signing  of  the  Treaty  of  Brest-Litovsk  on  March  3,  1918,  and  thus 
were  gone  before  fighting  reached  the  crucial  stage.  On  the  White 
side,  however,  the  Germans  sent  not  only  the  jaegers  and  military 
equipment  but  also  a  reinforced  division  of  first-rate  troops,  the 
Baltic  Division,  which  proved  superior  to  the  Reds. 

The  Red  Guards  suffered  from  several  major  disadvantages:  poor 
leadership,  training,  and  equipment;  food  shortages;  the  practice 
of  electing  officers  democratically,  which  made  discipline  lax;  and 
the  general  unwillingness  of  the  Red  troops  to  go  on  offensive  oper- 
ations or  even  to  operate  outside  their  local  areas.  Ultimately,  the 
Reds  suffered  most  from  a  lack  of  dynamic  leadership.  There  was 
no  Finnish  Lenin  to  direct  the  revolution,  and  there  was  no  Fin- 
nish Trotsky  to  vitalize  the  Red  armed  forces.  These  Red  disad- 
vantages became  apparent  in  late  March  and  early  April  1918,  when 
the  Whites  won  a  decisive  victory  by  reducing  the  Red  stronghold 
of  Tampere,  the  major  inland  industrial  center.  At  about  the  same 
time,  German  forces  landed  edong  the  southern  coast,  quickly  driv- 
ing all  before  them,  securing  Helsinki  on  April  13  and,  in  the 
process,  destroying  about  half  of  the  remaining  effective  strength 
of  the  Red  Guards.  The  last  Red  strongholds  in  southeastern  Fin- 
land were  cleared  out  in  late  April  and  early  May  1918,  and  thou- 
sands of  Finnish  Reds,  including  the  Red  leadership,  escaped  into 


30 


Victory  parade  by  German  and  Finnish  White  Guard  troops, 

Helsinki,  May  1918 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

the  Soviet  Union.  On  May  16,  1918,  General  Mannerheim  entered 
Helsinki,  formally  marking  the  end  of  the  conflict.  Each  year  there- 
after, until  World  War  II,  May  16  was  celebrated  by  the  Whites 
as  a  kind  of  second  independence  day. 

The  tragedy  of  the  civil  war  was  compounded  by  a  reign  of  ter- 
ror that  was  unleashed  by  each  side.  In  Red-dominated  areas,  1 ,649 
people,  mostiy  businessmen,  independent  farmers,  and  other  mem- 
bers of  the  middle  class,  were  murdered  for  political  reasons.  This 
Red  Terror  appears  not  to  have  been  a  systematic  effort  to  liqui- 
date class  enemies,  but  rather  to  have  been  generally  random.  The 
Red  Terror  was  disavowed  by  the  Red  leadership  and  illustrated 
the  extent  to  which  the  Red  Guard  evaded  the  control  of  the  leader- 
ship. More  than  anything  else,  the  Red  Terror  helped  to  alienate 
the  populace  from  the  Red  cause;  it  also  harmed  the  morale  of  the 
Reds. 

The  Red  Terror  confirmed  the  belief  of  the  Whites  that  the  Reds 
were  criminals  and  traitors  and  were  therefore  not  entitled  to  the 
protection  of  the  rules  of  war.  As  a  consequence,  the  Whites 
embarked  on  their  own  reign  of  terror,  the  White  Terror,  which 
proved  much  more  ferocious  than  the  Red  Terror.  First,  there  were 
reprisals  against  defeated  Reds,  in  the  form  of  mass  executions 
of  Red  prisoners.  These  killings  were  carried  on  by  local  White 


31 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


commanders  over  the  opposition  of  White  leadership.  At  least  8,380 
Reds  were  killed,  more  than  half  after  the  Whites'  final  victory. 
Another  component  of  the  White  Terror  v^as  the  suffering  of  the 
Reds  imprisoned  after  the  war.  The  Whites  considered  these  Reds 
to  be  criminals  and  feared  that  they  might  start  another  insurrec- 
tion. By  May  1918,  they  had  captured  about  80,000  Red  troops, 
whom  they  could  neither  house  nor  feed.  Placed  in  a  number  of 
detention  camps,  the  prisoners  suffered  from  malnutrition  and 
genergd  neglect,  and  within  a  few  months  an  estimated  12,000  of 
them  had  died.  The  third  aspect  of  the  White  Terror  was  legal 
repression.  As  a  result  of  mass  trials,  approximately  67,000  Reds 
were  convicted  of  participating  in  the  war,  and  of  these  265  were 
executed;  the  remainder  lost  their  rights  of  citizenship,  although 
many  sentences  were  later  suspended  or  commuted. 

The  civil  W2ir  was  a  catastrophe  for  Finland.  In  only  a  few  months, 
about  30,000  Finns  perished,  less  than  a  quarter  of  them  on  the  batt- 
lefield, the  rest  in  summary  executions  and  in  detention  camps.  These 
deaths  amounted  to  about  1  percent  of  the  total  population  of  Fin- 
land. By  comparison,  the  bloodiest  war  in  the  history  of  the  United 
States,  the  Civil  War,  cost  the  lives  of  about  2  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation, but  that  loss  was  spread  out  over  four  years. 

The  memory  of  the  injuries  perpetrated  during  the  war  divided 
the  society  into  two  camps;  victors  and  vanquished.  The  working 
class  had  suffered  the  deaths  of  about  25,000  from  battle,  execu- 
tion, or  prison,  and  thousands  of  others  had  been  imprisoned  or 
had  lost  their  political  rights.  Almost  every  working-class  family 
had  a  direct  experience  of  suffering  or  death  at  the  hands  of  the 
Whites,  and  perhaps  as  much  as  40  percent  of  the  population  was 
thereby  cdienated  from  the  system.  As  a  result,  for  several  genera- 
tions thereafter,  a  large  number  of  Finns  expressed  their  displeas- 
ure with  the  system  by  voting  communist;  and  until  the  1960s,  the 
communists  often  won  a  fifth  or  more  of  the  vote  in  Finland's 
national  elections,  a  higher  percentage  than  they  did  in  most 
Western  democracies. 

The  divisions  in  society  that  resulted  from  the  conflict  were 
so  intense  that  the  two  sides  could  not  even  agree  on  what  it  ought 
to  be  called.  The  right  gave  it  the  name  "War  of  Independence," 
thereby  stressing  the  struggle  against  Russian  rule,  for  they  had 
feared  that  a  Red  victory  could  well  lead  to  the  country's  becoming 
a  Soviet  satellite.  Leftists  emphasized  the  domestic  dimensions  of 
the  conflict,  referring  to  it  by  the  term  "Civil  War."  Their  feelings 
about  the  course  of  the  hostilities  were  so  intense  that,  until  the  late 
1930s,  Social  Democrats  refused  to  march  in  the  Independence  Day 


32 


Historical  Setting 


parade.  Today,  with  the  passing  of  decades,  historians  have  gener- 
adly  come  to  define  the  clash  as  a  civil  war. 

The  Establishment  of  Finnish  Democracy 

The  end  of  the  civil  war  in  May  1918  found  the  government 
of  Prime  Minister  Svinhufvud  seated  again  in  Helsinki.  Many 
Finns,  however,  now  questioned  establishing  the  republic  mentioned 
in  the  declaration  of  independence  of  December  6,  1917.  Monar- 
chist sentiment  was  widespread  among  middle-class  Finns  after  the 
civil  war  for  two  reasons:  monarchist  Germany  had  helped  the 
Whites  to  defeat  the  Reds,  and  a  monarchy  seemed  capable  of 
providing  strong  government  and,  thus,  of  better  protecting  the 
country.  Owing  to  the  absence  from  parliament  of  most  of  the 
socialists,  rightists  held  the  majority,  through  which  they  sought 
to  establish  a  monarchical  form  of  government.  On  May  18,  1918, 
that  is,  two  days  after  General  Mannerheim's  triumphal  entry  into 
Helsinki,  Svinhufvud  was  elected  the  "possessor  of  supreme 
authority,"  and  the  search  for  a  suitable  monarch  began.  The  new 
prime  minister  was  a  prominent  White  politician,  Juho  Kusti 
Paasikivi.  Its  strongly  pro-German  mood  led  the  government  to 
offer  the  crown  to  a  German  nobleman,  Friedrich  Karl,  Prince  of 
Hesse,  in  October  1918.  The  sudden  defeat  of  Germany  in  Novem- 
ber 1918,  however,  discredited  Svinhufvud' s  overtly  pro-German 
and  monarchical  policy  and  led  to  his  replacement  by  Mannerheim. 

Meanwhile,  the  SDP  was  reorganized  under  Vaino  Tanner,  a 
Social  Democrat  who  had  not  joined  in  the  Red  uprising,  and  this 
newly  formed  SDP  repudiated  the  extremism  and  violence  that  had 
led  to  civil  war.  In  the  general  parliamentary  election  of  March 
1919,  the  SDP  again  became  the  largest  single  party,  winning  80 
of  200  parliamentary  seats.  In  conjunction  with  Finnish  liberals, 
the  SDP  ensured  that  Finland  would  be  a  republic.  On  July  17, 
1919,  the  parliament  adopted  a  constitution  that  established  a  repub- 
lican form  of  government,  safeguarded  the  basic  rights  of  citizens, 
and  created  a  strong  presidency  with  extensive  powers  and  a  six- 
year  term  of  office.  This  Constitution  was  still  in  effect  in  1988. 
Also  in  July  1919,  the  first  president  of  Finland  was  elected.  He 
was  a  moderate  liberal  named  Kaarlo  Juho  Stahlberg,  who  had 
been  the  primary  author  of  the  Constitution.  White  Finland's  main 
leaders,  Svinhufvud,  Mannerheim,  and  Paasikivi,  retired  from  pub- 
lic life  in  1918  and  1919,  but  each  of  the  three  would  later  be  recalled 
to  serve  as  president  at  a  crucial  moment  in  Finland's  development 
— in  1931,  1944,  and  1946,  respectively.  It  is  a  tribute  to  the 
strength  of  the  democratic  tradition  in  Finland  that  the  country 
was  able  to  undergo  a  bloody  and  bitter  civil  war  and  almost 


33 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

immediately  afterward  recommence  the  practices  of  parliamentary 
democracy. 

The  achievement  of  independence  and  the  experience  of  the  civil 
war  helped  to  bring  about  a  major  realignment  of  the  political  par- 
ties. The  Old  Finn  Party  and  the  Young  Finn  Party  were  disbanded, 
and  Finnish  speakers  were  divided  into  two  new  parties:  conser- 
vatives and  monarchists  formed  the  National  Coalition  Party  (Kan- 
sallinen  Kokoomuspuolue — KOK);  and  liberals  and  republicans 
formed  the  National  Progressive  Party  (Kansallinen  Edistys- 
puolue — ED),  the  ranks  of  which  included  President  Stahlberg.  The 
Agrarian  Party  (Maalaisliitto — ML)  took  on  the  interests  of  farm- 
ers, and  the  Swedish  People's  Party  (Svenska  Folkpartiet — SEP), 
which  had  been  founded  in  1906,  continued  to  represent  the  in- 
terests of  Swedish  speakers.  The  process  of  rehabilitating  the  SDP 
proceeded  so  far  that  in  1926  it  was  entrusted  briefly  with  forming 
a  government,  with  Vaino  Tanner  as  prime  minister.  Of  the  twenty 
governments  formed  from  1919  to  1939,  one  was  headed  by  the 
SDP;  five  by  the  KOK;  six  by  the  ML;  and  eight  by  the  ED.  On 
the  average,  there  was  thus  one  government  a  year,  but  this 
apparent  parliamentary  instability  was  balanced  somewhat  by  the 
continuity  provided  by  the  office  of  president — in  twenty  years  there 
were  only  four  presidents. 

Another  major  political  party  was  the  Communist  Party  of  Fin- 
land (Suomen  Kommunistinen  Puolue — SKP),  which  was  founded 
in  August  1918  in  Moscow  by  Finnish  Reds  who  had  fled  to  the 
Soviet  Union  at  the  close  of  the  civil  war.  During  the  interwar 
period,  the  party  was  headed  by  Otto  Kuusinen,  a  former  minister 
in  the  Finnish  Red  government.  Like  much  of  the  SKP  leader- 
ship, he  remained  in  exile  in  the  Soviet  Union,  from  where  he 
directed  the  party's  clandestine  activities  in  Finland.  The  SKP 
attracted  mainly  left-wing  militants  and  embittered  survivors  of 
the  civil  war.  In  the  1922  election,  the  SKP,  acting  under  the 
front  organization  of  the  Finnish  Socialist  Workers'  Party  (Suo- 
men Sosialistinen  Tyovaenpuolue — SSTP),  received  14.8  percent 
of  the  total  vote  and  twenty-seven  seats  in  parliament.  The  follow- 
ing year  the  SSTP  was  declared  treasonous  and  was  outlawed.  As 
a  result,  the  communists  formed  another  front  organization,  and 
in  1929  they  won  13.5  percent  of  the  vote  before  being  outlawed 
in  1930.  Deprived  of  political  access,  the  communists  tried  to  use 
strikes  to  disrupt  the  country's  economic  life.  They  had  so  far 
infiltrated  the  SAJ  by  1930  that  politically  moderate  trade  unionists 
formed  an  entirely  new  organization,  the  Confederation  of  Fin- 
nish Trade  Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiyhdistysten  Keskusliitto — 
SAK),  which  established  itself  solidly  in  the  coming  years. 


34 


Vdind  Tanner,  a  leader  of  the 
Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party 
and  prime  minister,  1926-27 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


The  competition  between  Finnish  speakers  and  Swedish- speakers 
was  defused  by  the  Language  Act  of  1922,  which  declared  both 
Finnish  and  Swedish  to  be  official  national  languages.  This  law 
enabled  the  Swedish-speaking  minority  to  survive  in  Finland, 
although  in  the  course  of  the  twentieth  century  the  Swedish- speakers 
have  been  gradually  Finnicized,  declining  from  11  percent  of  the 
population  in  the  1920s  to  about  6  percent  in  the  1980s.  The  una- 
nimity with  which  both  language  groups  fought  together  in  World 
War  II  attested  to  the  success  of  the  national  integration. 

The  enduring  domestic  political  turmoil  generated  by  the  civil 
war  led  to  the  rise  not  only  of  a  large  communist  party,  but  also 
to  that  of  a  large  radical  right-wing  movement.  The  right  wing  con- 
sisted mainly  of  Finnish  nationalists  who  were  unhappy  with  the 
1920  Treaty  of  Dorpat  (Tartu)  that  had  formally  ended  the  con- 
flict between  the  Soviet  Union  and  Finland  and  recognized  Soviet 
sovereignty  over  Eastern  Karelia.  The  more  extreme  Finnish  na- 
tionalists hoped  for  the  establishment  of  a  Greater  Finland  (Suur- 
Suomi)  that  would  unite  the  Finnic  peoples  of  Northern  Europe 
within  boundaries,  running  from  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia  to  the  White 
Sea  and  from  Estonia  to  the  Arctic  Ocean,  that  included  Eastern 
Karelia.  Eastern  Karelia  was  the  area,  located  roughly  between 
Finland  and  the  White  Sea,  that  was  inhabited  by  Finnic-speaking 
people  who,  centuries  before,  had  been  brought  under  Russian  rule 
and  had  been  converted  to  Eastern  Orthodoxy  (see  The  Era  of 


35 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Swedish  Rule,  this  chapter).  Since  the  nineteenth  century,  romantic 
Finnish  nationalists  had  sought  to  reunite  the  Karelians  with 
Finland. 

The  most  prominent  organization  advancing  the  Greater  Fin- 
land idea  was  the  Academic  Kairelia  Society  (Akateeminen  Karjala- 
Seura — AKS),  which  was  founded  in  1922  by  Finnish  students  who 
had  fought  in  Eastern  Karelia  against  Soviet  rule  during  the  winter 
of  1921  to  1922.  In  the  1920s,  the  AKS  became  the  dominant  group 
among  Finnish  university  students.  Its  members  often  retained  their 
membership  after  their  student  days,  and  the  AKS  was  strongly 
represented  among  civil  servants,  teachers,  lawyers,  physicians, 
and  clergymen.  Most  Lutheran  clergymen  had  been  strongly  pro- 
White  during  the  civil  war,  and  many  of  them  were  also  active  in 
the  AKS  and  in  the  even  more  radical  anticommunist  Lapua  move- 
ment. Thus  the  AKS  created  a  worldview  among  an  entire  gener- 
ation of  educated  Finns  that  was  relendessly  anti-Soviet  and 
expansionistic.  (The  Eastern  Karelians  were  eventually  assimilat- 
ed into  Russian  culture  through  a  deliberate  Soviet  policy  of  dena- 
tionalization, aimed  at  removing  any  possibility  of  their  being 
attracted  to  Finland.) 

The  military  muscle  for  the  right  wing  was  provided  by  the  Civil 
Guard.  In  the  1920s,  the  Civil  Guard  had  a  strength  of  about 
100,000,  and  it  received  arms  by  parliamentary  appropriation; 
however.  Social  Democrats,  branded  as  leftists,  were  not  welcome 
as  members.  Finally  during  World  War  II,  the  Civil  Guard  was 
integrated  into  the  regular  army,  and  peace  was  made  with  the 
Social  Democrats.  The  Civil  Guard  included  a  women's  auxiliary 
called  Lotta  Svard  after  a  female  hero  of  the  war  of  1808  to  1809. 
This  organization  performed  important  support  work,  behind  the 
lines  during  the  civil  war  and  later  during  World  War  II,  thereby 
releasing  many  men  for  service  on  the  front. 

The  apogee  of  right-wing  nationalism  was  reached  in  the  Lapua 
movement,  from  1929  to  1932.  The  emergence  of  the  SKP  in  the 
1920s  had  contributed  to  a  rightward  trend  in  politics  that  became 
evident  as  early  as  1925  when  Lauri  Kristian  Relander,  a  right- 
wing  Agrarian,  was  elected  president.  In  November  1929,  a  rightist 
mob  broke  up  a  communist  rally  at  Lapua,  a  conservative  town 
in  northern  Finland.  That  event  inspired  a  movement  dedicated 
to  extirpating  communism  from  Finland  by  any  means,  legal  or 
illeg2il,  an  imperative  that  was  termed  the  "Law  of  Lapua." 

Under  pressure  from  the  Lapua  movement,  parliament  outiawed 
communism  through  a  series  of  laws  passed  in  1930.  Not  content, 
however,  the  Lapuans  embarked  on  a  campaign  of  terror  against 
communists  and  others  that  included  beatings,  kidnappings,  and 


36 


Historical  Setting 


murders.  The  Lapuans  overreached  themselves  in  1930,  however, 
when  they  kidnapped  former  president  Stahlberg,  whom  they  dis- 
liked for  his  alleged  softness  toward  communism.  Public  revulsion 
against  that  act  ensured  the  eventual  decline  of  the  Lapua 
movement. 

The  final  major  political  success  of  the  Lapuans  came  in  the  elec- 
tion to  the  presidency  in  1931  of  the  former  White  leader,  Svin- 
hufvud,  who  was  sympathetic  to  them.  In  February  1932,  the 
Lapuans  began  calling  for  a  "Finnish  Hitler,"  and  in  March  1932, 
they  used  armed  force  to  take  over  the  town  of  Mantsala,  not  far 
from  Helsinki,  in  what  appeared  to  be  the  first  step  toward  a  rightist 
coup.  Members  of  the  Civil  Guard  were  prominent  in  this  coup 
attempt.  The  Lapuans  had,  however,  underestimated  President 
Svinhufvud,  who  used  the  Finnish  army  to  isolate  the  rebellion  and 
to  suppress  it  without  bloodshed.  The  leaders  of  the  Mantsala  revolt 
were  tried  and  were  convicted,  and,  although  they  were  given  only 
nominal  sentences,  the  Lapua  movement  was  outlawed. 

The  last  flowering  of  right-wing  nationalism  began  the  month 
after  the  Mantsala  revolt,  when  a  number  of  ex-Lapuans  formed 
the  Patriotic  People's  Movement  (Isanmaallinen  Kansanliike — 
IKL).  Ideologically,  the  IKL,  calling  for  a  new  system  to  replace 
parliamentary  democracy,  picked  up  where  the  Lapua  movement 
had  left  off.  Much  more  than  had  the  Lapua  movement,  the  IKL 
styled  itself  a  fascist  organization,  and  it  borrowed  the  ideas  and 
trappings  of  Italian  fascism  and  of  German  Nazism.  Unlike  the 
Lapua  movement,  the  IKL  achieved  scant  respectability  among 
middle-class  Finns.  A  future  president  of  Finland,  Urho  Kekko- 
nen,  who  in  1938  was  minister  of  interior,  banned  the  IKL.  Like 
the  communists,  however,  the  IKL  demanded  the  protection  of 
the  Constitution  that  it  sought  to  destroy,  and  the  IKL  persuaded 
the  Finnish  courts  to  lift  the  ban. 

By  the  late  1930s,  Finland  appeared  to  have  surmounted  the 
threat  from  the  extreme  right  and  to  have  upheld  parliamentary 
democracy.  The  White  hero  of  the  civil  war.  General  Mannerheim, 
speaking  in  1933  at  the  May  16  parade,  called  for  nationsJ  recon- 
ciliation with  the  words;  "We  need  no  longer  ask  where  the  other 
fellow  was  fifteen  years  ago  [that  is,  during  the  civil  war]."  In  1937 
President  Svinhufvud  was  replaced  by  a  more  politically  moder- 
ate Agrarian  Party  leader,  Kyosti  Kallio,  who  promoted  national 
integration  by  helping  to  form  a  so-called  Red-Earth  government 
coalition  that  included  Social  Democrats,  National  Progressives, 
and  Agrarians. 

A  final  factor  promoting  political  integration  during  the  in- 
terwar  years  was  the  steady  growth  of  material  prosperity.  The 


37 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

agricultural  sector  continued  to  be  the  backbone  of  the  economy 
throughout  this  period;  in  1938  well  over  half  of  the  population 
was  engaged  in  farming.  The  main  problem  with  agriculture  before 
1918  had  been  tenancy:  about  three-quarters  of  the  rural  families 
cultivated  land  under  lease  arrangements.  In  order  to  integrate  these 
tenant  farmers  more  firmly  into  society,  several  laws  were  passed 
between  1918  and  1922.  The  most  notable  was  the  so-called  Lex 
Kallio  (Kallio  Law,  named  after  its  main  proponent,  Kyosti  Kal- 
lio)  in  1922;  by  it,  loans  and  other  forms  of  assistance  were  provided 
to  help  landless  farmers  obtain  farmland.  As  a  result,  about  150,000 
new  independent  holdings  were  created  between  the  wars,  so  that 
by  1937  almost  90  percent  of  the  farms  were  held  by  independent 
owners  and  the  problem  of  tenancy  was  largely  solved.  Agricul- 
ture was  also  modernized  by  the  great  expansion  of  a  cooperative 
movement,  in  which  farmers  pooled  their  resources  in  order  to  pro- 
vide such  basic  services  as  credit  and  marketing  at  reasonable  cost. 
The  growth  of  dairy  farming  provided  Finland  with  valuable  export 
products.  In  summary,  the  agricultural  sector  of  the  Finnish  econ- 
omy showed  notable  progress  between  the  wars. 

In  addition,  Finnish  industry  recovered  quickly  from  the  devasta- 
tion caused  by  the  civil  war,  and  by  1922  the  lumber,  paper,  pulp, 
and  cellulose  industries  had  returned  to  their  prewar  level  of  produc- 
tion. As  before  the  war,  the  lumber  industry  still  led  the  economy, 
and  its  success  fueled  progress  in  other  sectors.  By  the  Treaty  of 
Dorpat  in  1920,  Finland  had  gained  nickel  deposits  near  the  Arc- 
tic port  of  Petsamo.  These  deposits  were  the  largest  in  Europe,  and 
production  began  there  in  1939.  The  success  of  Finnish  products 
on  the  world  market  was  indicated  by  the  general  rise  in  exports 
and  by  the  surplus  in  the  balance  of  payments.  Finnish  govern- 
ments protected  economic  prosperity  by  following  generally  con- 
servative fiscal  policies  and  by  avoiding  the  creation  of  large 
domestic  deficits  or  foreign  indebtedness. 

In  the  1920s  and  the  1930s,  Finnish  society  moved  toward  greater 
social  integration  and  progress,  mirroring  developments  in  the  Nor- 
dic region  as  a  whole.  Social  legislation  included  protection  of  child 
workers;  protection  of  laborers  against  the  dangers  of  the  work- 
place; compulsory  social  insurance  for  accidents,  disability,  and 
old  age;  aid  for  mothers  and  young  children;  aid  for  the  poor,  the 
crippled,  the  alcoholic,  and  the  mentally  deficient;  and  housing  aid. 
Finland  reflected  European  trends  also  in  the  emancipation  of 
women,  who  gained  voting  rights  in  1906  and  full  legal  equality 
under  the  Constitution  in  1919.  The  1920s  and  the  1930s  witnessed 
a  great  increase  in  the  number  of  women  in  the  work  force, 
including  the  professions  and  politics. 


38 


Historical  Setting 


Although  in  many  ways  Finland  was  predominantly  nationalist 
and  introspective  in  spirit,  it  participated  increasingly  in  the  out- 
side world,  both  economically  and  culturally,  a  trend  that  contribut- 
ed to  its  gradual  integration  into  the  international  community. 

Finnish  Security  Policy  Between  the  Wars 

The  first  security  policy  issue  Finland  faced  upon  becoming 
independent  concerned  the  Aland  Islands.  Settled  by  Swedes  in 
about  the  sixth  century  A.D.,  the  islands  were  administered  as  part 
of  Finland  as  long  as  Finland  was  part  of  Sweden.  In  1809  they 
were  transferred  to  Russian  sovereignty,  where  they  remained  until 
the  Russian  Revolution.  Throughout  this  period,  almost  all  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Aland  Islands,  the  Alanders,  continued  to  be 
Swedish  speakers.  During  the  chaos  of  the  Russian  Revolution, 
the  Alanders  began  negotiations  to  be  united  with  Sweden,  a  move 
that  was  later  supported  in  a  plebiscite  by  96  percent  of  the  islands' 
inhabitants.  The  Swedish  government  welcomed  this  move,  and 
in  February  1918  sent  troops  who  disarmed  the  Russian  forces  and 
the  Red  Guards  on  the  islands.  The  Finns  felt  that  the  Swedish 
intervention  in  the  Aland  Islands  represented  an  unwarranted 
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  Finland.  Tension  rose  as  both 
countries  claimed  the  islands,  Sweden  emphasizing  the  principle 
of  national  self-determination  and  Finland  pointing  to  its  histori- 
cal rights  and  to  the  need  to  have  the  islands  in  order  to  defend 
Finland's  southwestern  coast.  Germany  then  moved  into  the  islands 
as  part  of  its  intervention  in  the  civil  war  and  forced  out  the  Swedes; 
later  that  year,  however,  Germany  handed  the  islands  over  to  Fin- 
land. The  Finns  arrested  the  Aland  separatist  leaders  on  charges 
of  treason.  In  1920  both  countries  referred  the  matter  to  the  League 
of  Nations,  which  ruled  the  following  year  in  favor  of  Finland.  The 
Swedes  were  placated  by  the  demilitarization  of  the  islands  as  well 
as  by  the  grant  of  extensive  autonomy  to  the  Alanders,  a  settle- 
ment that  still  obtained  in  1988. 

Finland's  interwar  security  policy  was  dominated  by  fear  of  an 
attack  by  the  Soviet  Union.  Two  of  its  priorities  were  to  end  the 
conflict  between  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union — that  had  continued 
unofficially  since  the  civil  war — and  to  settle  the  Soviet-Finnish 
boundary.  Negotiations  were  held  intermittently  between  1918  and 
1920,  leading  in  October  1920  to  the  signing  of  the  Treaty  of  Dor- 
pat.  In  it,  Finland  received  all  of  the  land  it  had  held  under  Russian 
rule  plus  the  Petsamo  area,  which  gave  Finland  a  port  on  the  Arc- 
tic Ocean.  At  this  point,  Finland  controlled  more  territory  than 
it  had  at  any  other  time  in  its  history.  The  Soviet-Finnish  border 
on  the  Karelian  Isthmus  was  drawn  only  thirty  kilometers  from 


39 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Leningrad  (formerly  St.  Petersburg).  The  new  border  caused  some 
Soviet  apprehension  because  it  placed  the  city  and  the  vital  naval 
base  at  Kronstadt  within  the  range  of  the  Finns'  heavy  artillery. 

Finland's  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  had  been  problematic 
from  the  beginning,  because  of  the  Finns'  strong  historical  distrust 
for  Russia  and  the  inherent  incompatibility  of  the  two  political  sys- 
tems. The  Finns  saw  themselves  as  occupying  an  exposed  outpost 
of  Western  civilization,  an  attitude  that  was  well  expressed  in  a 
poem  by  Uuno  Kailas  that  included  the  verse: 

Like  a  chasm  runs  the  border. 
In  front,  Asia,  the  East; 
In  back,  Europe,  the  West: 
Like  a  sentry,  I  stand  guard. 

The  mistrust  between  the  countries  had  been  strengthened  by 
the  tsarist  policies  of  Russification,  by  the  Bolsheviks'  participa- 
tion in  the  Finnish  revolution,  and  by  continued  Soviet  efforts  to 
foster  subversion  in  Finland.  From  the  Soviet  viewpoint,  the  Greater 
Finland  agitation  and  the  blossoming  of  ideological  anticommunism 
in  Finland  posed  a  threat.  In  1932  the  Soviet  Union  and  Finland 
signed  a  ten-year  non-aggression  pact,  which,  however,  did  not 
mitigate  the  mutual  distrust — illustrated  in  part  by  the  Soviets'  ces- 
sation of  all  trade  between  the  two  countries  in  1934 — that  was  to 
culminate  in  war. 

In  dealing  with  the  Soviet  threat,  Finland  was  unable  to  fmd 
effective  outside  help.  The  Finns  sought  assistance  first  from  the 
other  Baltic  states,  and  in  March  1922  an  agreement  was  signed 
by  Finland,  Estonia,  Latvia,  and  Poland.  The  Finns  soon  realized, 
however,  that  in  a  crisis  no  substantial  help  would  be  forthcoming 
from  these  countries,  and  they  thereupon  sought  support  through 
active  membership  in  the  League  of  Nations.  The  breakdown  of 
collective  security  in  the  1930s  led  the  Finns  to  seek  security  through 
a  collective  neutrality  with  the  other  Nordic  states,  but  that  arrange- 
ment offered  no  effective  counterweight  to  the  Soviets.  The  more 
powerful  Britain  and  France  did  not  take  a  major  interest  in  the 
Baltic  area. 

Throughout  this  period,  the  Finnish  ruling  circles  had  been 
strongly  pro-German  in  outlook,  in  large  part  as  a  result  of  the 
civil  war.  For  this  reason,  the  Soviets  developed  the  suspicion  that 
Finland  would  allow  Germany  to  use  its  territory  as  a  base  from 
which  to  invade  the  Soviet  Union.  Although  Soviet  fears  were 
unfounded,  the  Finns  did  little  to  allay  them.  In  1937  a  German 


40 


Historical  Setting 


submarine  flotilla  visited  Helsinki,  and  it  was  greeted  warmly  by 
the  people  and  by  the  government.  In  April  and  in  May  1938,  the 
Finnish  government  presided  over  two  great  celebrations,  mark- 
ing the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  entry  of  German  troops  into 
Helsinki  and  of  the  entry  of  Mannerheim's  forces  into  Helsinki, 
respectively,  events  that  numerous  prominent  Germans  attended. 
The  Finns  were  also  indiscreet  in  allowing  a  German  navsd  squad- 
ron to  visit  Helsinki.  Soviet  suspicions  were  fuelled  again  by  the 
visit  to  Finland  in  June  1939  of  the  German  army  chief  of  staff. 
General  Franz  Haider,  who  was  received  by  the  government  in 
Helsinki  and  who  viewed  Finnish  army  maneuvers  on  the  Karelian 
Isthmus.  In  summation,  Finnish  foreign  policy  between  the  wars 
was  genuinely  unaggressive  in  relation  to  the  Soviet  Union,  but 
it  lacked  the  appearance  of  unaggressiveness,  a  deficiency  that  Fin- 
land since  World  War  II  has  been  at  pains  to  remedy. 

With  German  help,  Finland  established  regular  armed  forces  in 
1918  to  1919,  using  the  army  of  the  Whites  as  a  foundation. 
Beginning  in  the  1920s,  conscription  was  introduced,  and  most  Fin- 
nish males  were  trained  for  military  service.  Finnish  military  doc- 
trine presumed  an  essentially  defensive  war  in  which  Finland's 
forests,  lakes,  and  other  geographical  obstacles  could  be  exploited 
to  advcintage.  The  Defense  Review  Committee,  in  its  report  of  1926, 
called  for  the  establishment  of  a  Finnish  army  of  thirteen  divisions, 
equipped  with  the  most  modem  arms,  as  the  surest  means  of 
deterring  a  possible  Soviet  invasion.  Because  of  budget  restraints, 
however,  these  recommendations  were  instituted  only  in  part,  so 
that  when  the  Soviet  Union  did  attack  in  November  1939,  Fin- 
land had  only  nine  available  divisions,  and  their  equipment  was 
generally  inadequate.  Beginning  in  1931,  however.  General  Man- 
nerheim  had  contributed  ably  to  Finnish  military  preparations  from 
his  position  as  chairman  of  the  Defense  Council,  and  thousands 
of  citizens  spent  the  summer  of  1939,  without  pay,  strengthening 
the  Mannerheim  Line  of  fortifications  on  the  Karelian  Isthmus. 
The  line  later  proved  to  be  the  anchor  of  Finland's  defenses  in  this 
important  area. 

World  War  II,  1939-45 

For  most  of  Finland's  history,  the  country  had  lived  on  the 
periphery  of  world  events,  but  for  a  few  weeks  during  the  win- 
ter of  1939-40,  Finland  stood  at  the  center  of  the  world  stage. 
Finland's  stand  against  Soviet  aggression  aroused  the  world's  ad- 
miration. The  Winter  War,  however,  proved  to  be  only  a  curtain- 
raiser  for  Finland's  growing  entanglement  in  World  War  II. 


41 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

The  Winter  War 

The  underlying  cause  of  the  Winter  War  was  Soviet  concern 
about  Nazi  Germany's  expansionism.  With  a  population  of  only 
3.5  million,  Finland  itself  was  not  a  threat  to  the  Soviet  Union, 
but  its  territory,  located  strategically  near  Leningrad,  could  be  used 
as  a  base  by  the  Germans.  The  Soviets  initiated  negotiations  with 
Finland  that  ran  intermittently  from  the  spring  of  1938  to  the  sum- 
mer of  1939,  but  nothing  was  achieved.  Finnish  assurances  that 
the  country  would  never  allow  German  violations  of  its  neutrality 
were  not  accepted  by  the  Soviets,  who  asked  for  more  concrete 
guarantees.  In  particular,  the  Soviets  sought  a  base  on  the  north- 
ern shore  of  the  Gulf  of  Finland,  from  which  they  could  block  the 
Gulf  of  Finland  from  hostile  naval  forces.  The  Finnish  government, 
however,  felt  that  accepting  these  terms  would  only  lead  to  fur- 
ther, increasingly  unreasonable,  demands. 

The  Nazi-Soviet  Non- Aggression  Pact  of  August  1939,  by  bring- 
ing together  these  former  archenemies,  revolutionized  European 
politics.  The  secret  protocol  of  the  pact  gave  the  Soviet  Union  a 
sphere  of  influence  that  included  Finland,  the  Baltic  states,  and 
parts  of  Eastern  Europe.  When  the  Germans  won  a  stunningly  quick 
victory  over  Poland  in  September  1939,  the  Soviets  hastened  to 
take  control  in  their  sphere  of  influence.  In  addition  to  the  land 
taken  from  Poland  in  September,  the  Soviets  quickly  turned  the 
three  Baltic  states  into  quasi-protectorates.  Finland  followed  these 
events  closely;  thus,  when,  on  October  5,  the  Soviets  invited  Fin- 
land to  discuss  "concrete  political  questions,"  the  Finns  felt  that 
they  were  next  on  the  Soviets'  agenda.  Finland's  first  reaction  was 
to  mobilize  its  field  army  on  October  6,  and  on  October  10  Fin- 
land's reservists  were  called  up  in  what  amounted  to  a  general 
mobilization.  The  following  day  the  two  countries  began  negotia- 
tions that  were  to  last  until  November  8. 

In  the  negotiations,  the  main  Soviet  demand  was  that  the  Finns 
cede  small  parcels  of  territory,  including  a  naval  base  on  the  Gulf 
of  Finland  that  the  Soviets  wanted  to  help  them  protect  Leningrad. 
In  exchange,  the  Soviets  offered  to  cede  to  Finland  about  8,800 
square  kilometers  of  Karelia  along  the  Finnish  border,  or  about 
twice  the  amount  of  land  to  be  ceded  by  Finland.  Unlike  the  previ- 
ous negotiations,  these  talks  were  conducted  in  the  public  eye,  and 
the  Finnish  people,  like  the  government,  were  almost  unanimous 
in  rejecting  the  Soviet  proposals.  The  ostensible  reasons  for  Fin- 
land's refusal  were  to  protect  its  neutral  status  and  to  preserve  its 
territorial  integrity.  In  addition,  moving  the  Finnish  border  on  the 
Karelian  Isthmus  away  from  Leningrad  would  have  given  the 


42 


Finnish  machine  gunners  during  the  Winter  War  (1939-40) 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

Soviets  possession  of  much  of  the  Une  of  Finnish  fortifications,  the 
loss  of  which  would  have  weakened  Finland's  defenses.  Underly- 
ing the  hardline  Finnish  negotiating  position  were  a  basic  mistrust 
of  the  Soviets  and  a  feeling  that  the  Soviet  offer  was  merely  a  first 
step  in  subjugating  Finland.  In  this  suspicion  of  an  ulterior  mo- 
tive, the  Finns  were  matched  by  the  Soviets,  who  believed  that  Fin- 
land would  willingly  assist  Germany  in  a  future  war. 

The  Finnish  government  appears  to  have  underestimated  the 
Soviet  determination  to  achieve  these  national  security  goals.  The 
two  main  Finnish  negotiators,  Vaino  Tanner  and  Juho  Paasiki- 
vi,  vainly  urged  the  Finnish  government  to  make  more  conces- 
sions, because  they  realized  that  Finland  was  completely  isolated 
diplomatically  and  could  expect  no  support  from  any  quarter  if 
events  led  to  war.  General  Mannerheim  also  urged  conciliating 
the  Soviets,  because  Finland  by  itself  could  not  fight  the  Soviet 
Union.  When  he  was  ignored,  he  resigned  from  the  Defense 
Council  and  as  commander-in-chief,  saying  that  he  could  no 
longer  be  responsible  for  events.  Mannerheim  withdrew  his  resig- 
nation when  war  broke  out,  however,  and  served  ably  as  the  Fin- 
nish military  leader.  Some  historians  suggest  that  the  war  could 
have  been  prevented  by  timely  Finnish  concessions.  It  appears 
that  both  sides  proceeded  from  a  basic  mistrust  of  the  other  that 
was  compounded  by  mutual  miscalculations  and  by  the  willing- 
ness to  risk  war. 


43 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

The  Soviets  attacked  on  November  30,  1939,  without  a  decla- 
ration of  war.  The  Soviet  preparations  for  the  offensive  were  not 
especially  thorough,  in  part  because  they  underestimated  the  Fin- 
nish capabilities  for  resistance,  and  in  part  because  they  believed 
that  the  Finnish  workers  would  welcome  the  Soviets  as  liberators. 
However,  almost  no  Finns  supported  the  Soviet  puppet  govern- 
ment under  the  veteran  communist  Otto  Kuusinen.  In  addition, 
in  one  of  its  last  significant  acts,  the  League  of  Nations  expelled 
the  Soviet  Union  because  of  its  unprovoked  aggression  against 
Finland. 

The  task  facing  the  Finnish  armed  forces,  to  obstruct  a  vastly 
larger  enemy  along  a  boundary  of  about  1 ,300  kilometers,  appeared 
impossible.  Geography  aided  the  Finns,  however,  because  much 
of  the  northern  area  was  a  virtually  impassable  wilderness  contain- 
ing a  few,  easily  blocked  roads,  and  Finland  generally  presented 
difficult  terrain  on  which  to  conduct  offensive  operations.  Thus  the 
Finns  were  able  to  use  only  light  covering  forces  in  the  north  and 
to  concentrate  most  troops  in  the  crucial  southeastern  sector,  com- 
prising the  Karelian  Isthmus  and  the  area  north  of  Lake  Ladoga, 
that  protected  the  isthmus  from  rear  assault.  The  position  on  the 
isthmus  was  strengthened  considerably  by  the  Mannerheim  Line. 
An  additional  Finnish  advantage  lay  in  the  Finns'  unorthodox  mili- 
tary doctrine.  They  were  trained  in  the  use  of  small,  mobile  forces 
to  strike  at  the  fl2inks  and  the  rear  of  road-bound  enemies.  By  means 
of  the  so-call  motti  tactic  (the  name  is  taken  from  the  Finnish  word 
for  a  cord  of  firewood),  they  sought  to  break  invading  columns  into 
smzdl  segments,  which  were  then  destroyed  piecemeal.  The  final 
advantage  of  the  Finns  was  their  phenomenally  high  morale;  they 
knew  they  were  fighting  for  their  national  survival.  Finland's  main 
disadvantage  lay  in  the  glaring,  fifty- to-one  disparity  between  its 
population  and  that  of  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Finnish  hope  was 
to  hold  out  until  help  could  arrive  from  the  West,  a  forlorn  hope 
as  events  turned  out. 

Most  observers  expected  an  easy  Soviet  victory.  The  Soviets  sim- 
ply advanced  all  cdong  the  front  with  overwhelming  forces,  appar- 
ently intending  to  occupy  all  of  Finland.  Thanks  to  the  foresight 
the  Soviets  had  shown  in  previous  years  by  constructing  bases  and 
railroads  near  the  Finnish  border,  they  were  able  to  commit  much 
larger  forces  tham  the  Finns  had  anticipated.  The  main  Soviet  assault 
on  the  Mannerheim  Line  was  stopped,  though,  in  December  1939. 
Farther  north  along  the  line,  the  Finns  were  able  to  employ  their 
motti  tactics  with  surprising  effectiveness.  At  the  most  famous  of 
these  engagements,  the  Battle  of  Suomussalmi,  two  Soviet  divi- 
sions were  virtually  annihilated.  By  the  end  of  December  1939, 


44 


Historical  Setting 


the  Finns  had  dealt  the  Soviets  a  series  of  humihating  defeats.  For 
a  few  weeks,  the  popular  imagination  of  the  outside  world  was  cap- 
tured by  the  exploits  of  the  white-clad  Finnish  ski  troops  gliding 
ghostlike  through  the  dark  winter  forests,  and  in  general  by  the 
brave  resistance  of  the  "land  of  heroes." 

The  Soviet  invasion  brought  the  Finns  together  as  never  before. 
In  an  act  that  only  a  few  years  before  would  have  been  unthinka- 
ble, on  Christmas  Eve  in  December  1939,  middle-class  Finns  placed 
lighted  candles  on  the  graves  of  Finnish  Red  Guards  who  had  died 
in  the  civil  war.  The  magnificent  courage  displayed  by  Finnish  sol- 
diers of  all  political  persuasions  during  the  Winter  War  of  1939-40 
led  Mannerheim  to  declare  afterwards  that  May  16  would  no  longer 
be  celebrated,  but  that  another  day  would  be  chosen  to  com- 
memorate '  'those  on  both  sides  who  gave  their  lives  on  behalf  of 
their  political  convictions  during  the  period  of  crisis  in  1918." 

The  defeats  and  the  humiliations  suffered  by  the  Soviet  Union 
made  it  even  more  determined  to  win  the  struggle.  The  military 
command  was  reorganized,  and  it  was  placed  under  General  S. 
K.  Timoshenko.  The  Soviets  made  intensive  preparations  for  a 
new  offensive,  assembling  masses  of  tanks,  artillery,  and  first-class 
troops.  On  February  1,  1940,  the  Soviet  offensive  began,  and  this 
time  it  was  confined  to  the  Karelian  Isthmus.  Soviet  tactics  were 
simple:  powerful  artillery  bombardments  were  followed  by  repeated 
frontal  assaults,  using  masses  of  tanks  and  infantry.  The  Finnish 
defenders  were  worn  down  by  the  continual  attacks,  the  artillery 
and  the  aerial  bombardments,  the  cold,  and  the  lack  of  relief  and 
of  replacements.  On  February  11,  1940,  the  Soviets  achieved  a 
breakthrough  in  the  Mannerheim  Line  that  led  to  a  series  of  Fin- 
nish retreats.  By  early  March,  the  Finnish  army  was  on  the  verge 
of  total  collapse.  Finland  was  saved  only  by  agreeing  quickly  to 
Soviet  terms,  which  were  encompassed  in  the  Peace  of  Moscow, 
signed  on  March  13,  1940. 

By  the  terms  of  the  Peace  of  Moscow,  Finland  ceded  substantial 
territories:  land  along  the  southeastern  border  approximately  to 
the  line  drawn  by  the  Peace  of  Uusikaupunki  in  1721,  including 
Finland's  second-largest  city,  Viipuri;  the  islands  in  the  Gulf  of 
Finland  that  were  the  object  of  the  negotiations  in  1938-39;  land 
in  the  Salla  sector  in  northeastern  Finland  (near  the  Murmansk 
Railroad);  Finland's  share  of  the  Rybachiy  Peninsula  in  the  Pet- 
samo  area;  and  the  naval  base  at  Hanko  on  the  Gulf  of  Finland, 
which  was  leased  for  thirty  years.  The  ceded  territories  contained 
about  one-eighth  of  Finland's  population;  virtually  all  of  the  in- 
habitants moved  over  to  Finnish  territory,  thereby  losing  their 
homes  and  livelihoods  (see  fig.  7). 


45 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Anthony  F.  Upton,  Finland  in  Crisis,  1940-41:  A  Study 
in  Small-Power  Politics,  London,  1964,  22;  and  D.  G.  Kirby,  Finland  in  the  Twentieth 
Century,  Minneapolis,  1979,  x. 

Figure  7.  Finland,  Adjustments  to  the  Frontier,  1940-1944 


46 


Historical  Setting 


Finland's  losses  in  the  war  were  about  25,000  dead,  10,000  per- 
manently disabled,  and  another  35,000  wounded,  out  of  a  popu- 
lation of  only  3.5  million.  Estimates  of  Soviet  losses  vary  greatly. 
A  subsequent  Soviet  leader,  Nikita  Khrushchev,  estimated  in  his 
memoirs  that  the  Soviet  losses  were  about  one  million  men.  In 
addition,  the  Soviets  lost  much  of  their  military  credibility.  Foreign- 
ers had  observed  keenly  the  performance  of  the  Red  Army  in  Fin- 
land, with  the  result  that  the  military  capabilities  of  the  Soviet  Union 
were  widely  discounted.  Four  months  after  the  conclusion  of  the 
Winter  War,  Adolf  Hitler  decided  to  invade  the  Soviet  Union,  an 
event  that  historians  generally  consider  a  turning  point  of  World 
War  II. 

It  is  true  that  the  Red  Army  had  performed  badly  in  Finland, 
but  there  had  been  some  extenuating  circumstances.  The  winter 
of  1939  to  1940  was  one  of  the  coldest  winters  of  the  century,  and 
the  Soviet  troops  were  not  trained  for  action  under  Arctic  condi- 
tions. The  Soviet  officer  corps  had  been  decimated  by  the  purges 
of  the  1930s,  and  the  officers  were  intimidated  by  the  presence  of 
political  commissars  within  their  units.  There  was,  especially  in 
the  first  phase  of  the  fighting,  poor  coordination  of  the  various  arms 
(infantry,  artillery,  armor,  aircraft),  and  there  were  deficiencies 
in  preparation  and  in  intelligence.  In  the  year  following  the  Winter 
War,  the  Soviets  worked  hard  at  correcting  their  weaknesses,  with 
the  result  that  in  1941  the  Red  Army  was  a  much  more  effective 
military  machine. 

The  Continuation  War 

The  sudden  admission  of  defeat  by  the  Finnish  government 
shocked  the  Finnish  people,  who  had  been  misled  by  overly 
optimistic  government  reports  on  the  military  situation;  however, 
the  resilience  of  democratic  society  helped  the  people  to  absorb 
defeat  without  undergoing  radical  change.  Instead,  the  Finns  threw 
themselves  into  two  major  tasks:  absorbing  the  400,000  refugees 
from  the  ceded  territories,  and  rearming. 

In  the  succeeding  months,  Soviet  meddling  in  Finnish  affairs  and 
other  overbearing  actions  indicated  to  the  Finns  a  continuing  Soviet 
desire  to  subjugate  Finland.  Among  other  actions,  the  Soviets 
demanded  the  demilitarization  of  the  Aland  Islands  (not  called  for 
by  the  Peace  of  Moscow),  control  of  the  Petsamo  nickel  mines,  and 
the  expulsion  of  Vaino  Tanner  from  the  Finnish  government.  More 
ominously,  the  Soviets  demanded  to  send  an  unlimited  number  of 
troop  trains  through  Finnish  territory  to  the  Soviet  base  at  Hanko. 
This  event  having  occured  near  the  time  that  the  Soviets  annexed 
the  Baltic  states  in  1940,  the  Finns  began  to  fear  that  they  would 


47 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

be  next.  When  Soviet  foreign  minister  Viacheslav  Molotov  visit- 
ed Berlin  later  that  year,  he  admitted  privately  to  his  German  hosts 
that  the  Soviets  intended  to  crush  Finland.  The  Finnish-Soviet  Peace 
and  Friendship  Society  (Suomen-Neuvostoliiton  rauhan  ja  ystavyy- 
den  seura — SNS),  a  communist-front  organization  that  quickly 
gained  35,000  Finnish  members,  conducted  subversive  activities 
in  open  defiance  of  the  Finnish  government.  The  SNS  was  banned 
in  August,  thus  preserving  public  order,  but  on  other  matters  of 
concern  to  the  Soviets  the  Finnish  government  was  forced  to  make 
concessions.  Unknown  to  the  Soviets,  however,  the  Finns  had  made 
an  agreement  with  Germany  in  August  1940  that  had  stiffened  their 
resolve. 

Hitler  soon  saw  the  value  of  Finland  as  a  staging  base  for  his 
forthcoming  invasion  of  the  Soviet  Union.  The  informal  German- 
Finnish  agreement  of  August  1940  was  formalized  in  September, 
and  it  allowed  Germany  the  right  to  send  its  troops  by  railroad 
through  Finland,  ostensibly  to  facilitate  Germany's  reinforcement 
of  its  forces  in  northern  Norway.  A  further  German- Finnish  agree- 
ment in  December  1940  led  to  the  stationing  of  German  troops 
in  Finland,  and  in  the  coming  months  they  arrived  in  increasing 
numbers.  Although  the  Finnish  people  knew  only  the  barest  details 
of  the  agreements  with  Germany,  they  approved  generally  of  the 
pro-German  policy,  and  they  were  virtually  unanimous  in  want- 
ing to  recover  the  ceded  territories. 

By  the  spring  of  1941,  the  Finnish  military  had  joined  the  Ger- 
man military  in  planning  for  the  invasion  of  Russia.  In  mid-June 
the  Finnish  armed  forces  were  mobilized.  It  was  not  politically 
expedient  for  the  Finnish  government  to  appear  as  the  aggressor, 
however,  so  Finland  at  first  took  no  part  in  the  Nazi  invasion  of 
the  Soviet  Union  on  June  22.  Three  days  later,  Soviet  aerial  attacks 
against  Finland  gave  the  Finnish  government  the  pretext  needed 
to  open  hostilities,  and  war  was  declared  on  June  26.  Finland  thus 
appeared  to  be  defending  itself  against  an  act  of  Soviet  aggression, 
a  posture  that  helped  unite  the  Finnish  people  for  the  war  effort. 

The  Finns  called  this  conflict  the  Continuation  War,  because 
it  was  seen  as  a  continuation  of  events  that  began  with  the  Winter 
War.  What  began  as  a  defensive  strategy,  designed  to  provide  a 
German  counterweight  to  Soviet  pressure,  ended  as  an  offensive 
strategy,  aimed  at  invading  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Finns  had  been 
lured  by  the  prospects  of  regaining  their  lost  territories  and  rid- 
ding themselves  of  the  Soviet  threat.  In  July  1941 ,  the  Finnish  army 
began  a  major  offensive  on  the  Karelian  Isthmus  and  north  of  Lake 
Ladoga,  and  by  the  end  of  August  1941,  Finnish  troops  had  reached 
the  prewar  boundaries.  By  December  1941,  the  Finnish  advance 


48 


Historical  Setting 


had  reached  the  outskirts  of  Leningrad  and  the  Svir  River  (which 
connects  the  southern  ends  of  Lake  Ladoga  and  Lake  Onega).  By 
the  end  of  1941,  the  front  became  stabilized,  and  the  Finns  did 
not  conduct  major  offensive  operations  for  the  following  two  and 
one-half  years. 

Finland's  participation  in  the  war  brought  major  benefits  to  Ger- 
many. First,  the  Soviet  fleet  was  blockaded  in  the  Gulf  of  Finland, 
so  that  the  Baltic  was  freed  for  training  German  submarine  crews 
as  well  as  for  German  shipping  activities,  especially  the  shipping 
of  vital  iron  ore  from  northern  Sweden  and  nickel  from  the  Petsamo 
area.  Second,  the  sixteen  Finnish  divisions  tied  down  Soviet  troops, 
put  pressure  on  Leningrad,  and  cut  one  branch  of  the  Murmansk 
Railroad.  Third,  Sweden  was  further  isolated  and  was  forced  to 
comply  with  German  wishes. 

Despite  Finland's  contributions  to  the  German  cause,  the 
Western  Allies  had  ambivalent  feelings,  torn  between  their  residual 
goodwill  for  Finland  amd  the  need  to  support  their  vital  ally,  the 
Soviet  Union.  As  a  result,  Britain  declared  war  against  Finland, 
but  the  United  States  did  not;  there  were  no  hostilities  between 
these  countries  and  Finland.  In  the  United  States,  Finland  was 
highly  regarded,  because  it  had  continued  to  make  payments  on 
its  World  War  I  debt  faithfully  throughout  the  interwar  period. 
Finland  also  earned  respect  in  the  West  for  its  refusal  to  2illow  the 
extension  of  Nazi  anti-Semitic  practices  in  Finland.  Jews  were  not 
only  tolerated  in  Finland,  but  Jewish  refugees  also  were  allowed 
asylum  there.  In  a  strange  paradox,  Finnish  Jews  fought  in  the 
Finnish  army  on  the  side  of  Hitler. 

Finland  began  to  seek  a  way  out  of  the  war  after  the  disastrous 
German  defeat  at  Stalingrad  in  January- February  1943.  Negotia- 
tions were  conducted  intermittently  between  Finland  on  the  one 
side  and  the  Western  Allies  and  the  Soviet  Union  on  the  other, 
from  1943  to  1944,  but  no  agreement  was  reached.  As  a  result, 
in  June  1944  the  Soviets  opened  a  powerful  offensive  against  Fin- 
nish positions  on  the  Karelian  Isthmus  and  in  the  Lake  Ladoga 
area.  On  the  second  day  of  the  offensive,  the  Soviet  forces  broke 
through  Finnish  lines,  and  in  the  succeeding  days  they  made 
advances  that  appeared  to  threaten  the  survival  of  Finland.  The 
Finns  were  equal  to  the  crisis,  however,  and  with  some  German 
assistance,  halted  the  Russians  in  early  July,  after  a  retreat  of  about 
one  hundred  kilometers  that  brought  them  to  approximately  the 
1940  boundary.  Finland  had  been  a  sideshow  for  the  Soviets, 
however,  and  they  then  turned  their  attention  to  Poland  and  to 
the  Balkans.  Although  the  Finnish  front  was  once  again  stabilized, 
the  Finns  were  exhausted,  and  they  needed  desperately  to  get  out 


49 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  war.  Finland's  military  leader  and  national  hero,  Gustaf  Man- 
nerheim,  became  president,  and  he  accepted  responsibility  for  end- 
ing the  war. 

In  September  1944,  a  preliminary  peace  agreement  was  signed 
in  Moscow  between  the  Soviet  Union  and  Finland.  Its  major  terms 
severely  limited  Finish  sovereignty.  The  borders  of  1940  were 
reestablished,  except  for  the  Petsamo  area,  which  was  ceded  to  the 
Soviet  Union.  Finland  was  forced  to  expel  aU  German  troops  from 
its  territory.  The  Porkkala  Peninsula  (southwest  of  Helsinki)  was 
leased  to  the  Soviets  for  fifty  years,  and  the  Soviets  were  given  transit 
rights  to  it.  Various  rightist  organizations  were  abolished,  includ- 
ing the  Civil  Guard,  Lotta  Svard,  the  Patriotic  People's  Move- 
ment, and  the  Academic  Karelia  Society.  The  Communist  Party 
of  Finland  (Suomen  Kommunistinen  Puolue — SKP)  was  allowed 
legal  status.  The  size  of  the  Finnish  armed  forces  was  restricted. 
Finland  agreed  to  pay  reparations  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Finland 
agreed  to  hold  war  crimes  trials.  Finally,  an  Allied  Control  Com- 
mission, which  was  dominated  by  the  Soviets,  was  established  to 
check  Finland's  adherence  to  the  terms  of  the  preliminary  peace. 
This  preliminary  peace  treaty  remained  in  effect  until  1947,  when 
the  final  Soviet-Finnish  peace  treaty  was  signed.  Although  Finland 
had  been  defeated  for  a  second  time,  it  had  managed  to  avoid 
occupation  by  the  Soviets. 

The  Lapland  War 

As  early  as  the  summer  of  1943,  the  German  high  command 
began  making  plans  for  the  eventuality  that  Finland  might  con- 
clude a  separate  peace  with  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Germans  planned 
to  withdraw  forces  northward  in  order  to  shield  the  nickel  mines 
near  Petsamo.  During  the  winter  of  1943  to  1944,  the  Germans 
improved  the  roads  from  northern  Norway  to  northern  Finland, 
and  they  accumulated  stores  in  that  region.  Thus  the  Germans  were 
ready  in  September  1944,  when  Finland  made  peace  with  the  Soviet 
Union.  While  German  ground  troops  withdrew  northward,  the  Ger- 
man navy  mined  the  seaward  approaches  to  Finland  and  attempt- 
ed to  seize  Suursaari  Island  in  the  Gulf  of  Finland.  Fighting  broke 
out  between  German  and  Finnish  forces  even  before  the  Soviet- 
Finnish  preliminary  peace  treaty  was  signed,  and  the  fighting  in- 
tensified thereafter,  as  the  Finns  sought  to  comply  with  the  Soviet 
demand  that  all  German  troops  be  expelled  from  Finland.  The  Finns 
were  thus  placed  in  a  situation  similar  to  that  of  the  Italians  and 
of  the  Romanians,  who,  after  surrendering  to  the  Allies,  had  to 
fight  to  free  their  lands  of  German  forces.  The  Finns'  task  was  com- 
plicated by  the  Soviet  stipulation  that  the  Finnish  armed  forces 


50 


Marshal  Gustaf  Mannerheim,  1941 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


51 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


be  reduced  drastically,  even  during  the  campaign  against  the 
Germans. 

The  capable  Finnish  general,  Hjalmar  Siilasvuo,  the  victor  of 
Suomussalmi,  led  operations  against  the  Germans;  in  October  and 
November  1944,  he  drove  them  out  of  most  of  northern  Finland. 
The  German  forces  under  General  Lothar  Rendulic  took  their 
revenge,  however,  by  devastating  large  stretches  of  northern  Fin- 
land. More  than  one-third  of  the  dwellings  in  that  area  were  de- 
stroyed, and  the  provincial  capital  of  Rovaniemi  was  burned  down. 
In  addition  to  the  property  losses,  estimated  as  equivailent  to  about 
US$300  million  (in  1945  dollars),  suffered  in  northern  Finland, 
about  100,000  inhabitants  became  refugees,  a  situation  that  add- 
ed to  the  problems  of  postwar  reconstruction.  (After  the  war  the 
Allies  convicted  Rendulic  of  war  crimes,  and  they  sentenced  him 
to  twenty  years  in  prison.)  The  last  German  troops  were  expelled 
in  April  1945.  As  a  final,  lingering  effect  of  the  Lapland  War,  the 
Germans  planted  numerous  mines  during  their  retreat;  some  of 
the  mines  were  so  cleverly  placed  that  they  continued  to  kill  and 
maim  civilians  who  triggered  them  as  late  as  1948. 

The  Effects  of  the  War 

World  Wsir  II  had  a  profound  impact  on  Finland.  Approximately 
86,000  Finns  died  in  the  war — about  three  times  the  losses  suffered 
during  the  civil  war.  In  addition,  about  57,000  Finns  were  per- 
manently disabled,  and  the  vast  majority  of  the  dead  and  the  disa- 
bled were  young  men  in  their  most  productive  years.  The  war  had 
also  left  24,000  war  widows;  50,000  orphans;  and  15,000  elderly, 
who  had  lost,  in  the  deaths  of  their  sons,  their  means  of  support. 
In  addition,  about  one-eighth  of  the  prewar  area  of  Finland  was 
lost,  including  the  Petsamo  area  with  its  valuable  nickel  mines.  One- 
half  million  Finns  were  refugees — more  than  400,000  from  the  ceded 
or  leased  territories  and  about  100,000  from  Lapland,  where  their 
homes  had  been  destroyed.  Another  effect  of  the  war  was  the  finan- 
cial burden  imposed  by  the  cost  of  maintaining  one-half  million 
troops  in  the  field  for  several  years  and  by  the  requirement  to  pay 
the  Soviets  reparations  in  kind  worth  US$300  million  (in  1938  dol- 
lars). The  Soviet  lease  of  the  Porkkala  Peninsula,  less  than  twenty 
kilometers  west  of  Helsinki,  as  a  military  base  was  a  blot  on  the 
nation's  sovereignty.  Finally,  an  intangible,  but  real,  restriction 
was  placed  on  Finland's  freedom  of  action  in  international  affairs. 
Finland's  relationship  with  the  Soviet  Union  was  permanently 
altered  by  the  war. 

Despite  the  great  losses  inflicted  by  the  war,  Finland  fought  for 
and  preserved  its  independence;  nevertheless,  had  the  Soviets  been 


52 


Historical  Setting 


vitally  concerned  about  Finland,  there  is  no  doubt  that  Finnish  in- 
dependence would  have  been  extinguished.  Finland  emerged  from 
the  war  conscious  of  these  realities  and  determined  to  establish  a 
new  and  constructive  relationship  with  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  Postwar  Era 

The  signing  of  the  preliminary  peace  treaty  between  Finland  and 
the  Soviet  Union  on  September  19,  1944,  marked  the  beginning 
of  a  new  era  for  Finland.  Its  hallmark  was  to  be  a  diametrical  change 
in  Finnish  policy  toward  the  Soviet  Union;  the  traditional  hostility 
was  to  be  replaced  by  a  policy  of  friendship.  Finnish  leaders  felt 
that  only  a  genuine  rapprochement  between  the  two  countries  could 
guarantee  Finland's  long-term  survival  as  an  independent  state. 
In  the  late  1980s,  the  new  policy,  operative  for  more  than  forty 
years,  appeared  to  have  been  successful  in  preserving  Finland's 
freedom.  Domestically,  Finland's  society  and  economy  have  un- 
dergone rapid  changes  that  have  made  the  country  a  prosperous 
social- welfare  state.  Finland's  achievements  in  the  postwar  years 
have  been  surviving  external  threats  and  thriving  as  a  modern  in- 
dustrialized country. 

The  Cold  War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948 

The  Finnish  statesman  Juho  Kusti  Paasikivi  was  a  leading  propo- 
nent of  the  relationship  between  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union  that 
permitted  Finland's  postwar  development.  For  decades,  Paasikivi 
had  been  the  leading  noncommunist  Finn  advocating  reconcilia- 
tion with  the  Soviet  Union.  Before  World  War  I,  he  had  been  on 
Old  Finn  and  a  Compliant  (see  The  Era  of  Russification,  this  ch.), 
who  advocated  accommodation  with  Russification.  In  the  negoti- 
ations over  the  Treaty  of  Dorpat  in  1920,  he  had  argued  for  draw- 
ing Finland's  border  farther  away  from  Leningrad.  In  the  fall  of 
1939,  he  had  recommended  giving  in  to  some  of  the  Soviet 
demands,  because  he  considered  the  ensuing  war  avoidable.  He 
had  also  opposed  Finland's  entry  into  the  Continuation  War.  As 
a  former  prime  minister  under  the  Finnish  White  government  of 
1918  and  as  a  member  of  the  Conservative  National  Coalition  Party 
(Kansallinen  Kokoomuspuolve — KOK),  Paasikivi  was  politically 
an  anticommunist.  His  lifelong  study  of  history,  however,  convinced 
him  that  Finland's  policies  toward  the  Soviet  Union  needed  to  be 
governed  by  pragmatism.  By  late  1944,  Finland's  previous  policy 
of  antagonism  to  the  Soviet  Union  had  been  shown  to  be  counter- 
productive, because  it  had  nearly  led  to  Finland's  extinction  as  an 
independent  state.  Summoned  out  of  private  life  to  serve — first  as 
prime  minister  from  October  1944  to  March  1946  and  then  as 


53 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

president  from  March  1946  to  March  1956 — Paasikivi  established 
the  policy  of  accommodation  with  the  Soviet  Union  that,  with  time, 
became  almost  universally  accepted  among  the  Finns.  The  change 
in  Finland's  policy  was  so  marked  that  some  observers  considered 
the  post- 1944  years  to  be  the  era  of  the  "Second  Republic." 

The  immediate  postwar  years  of  1944  to  1948  were  filled  with 
uncertainty  for  Finland  because  it  was  in  a  weakened  condition 
and  the  because  new  policy  of  reconciliation  was  still  being  formed. 
The  Allied  Control  Commission,  established  by  the  1944  armistice 
to  oversee  Finland's  internal  affairs  until  the  final  peace  treaty  was 
concluded  in  1947,  was  dominated  by  the  Soviets.  Under  the  leader- 
ship of  a  Soviet,  Marshal  Andrei  Zhdanov,  the  commission  checked 
Finland's  adherence  to  the  terms  of  the  preliminary  peace  of  Sep- 
tember 1944.  The  first  test  of  Finland's  new  policy  of  reconcilia- 
tion was  thus  to  observe  faithfully  the  treaty  with  the  Soviets, 
including  the  punctual  payment  of  reparations  and  the  establish- 
ment of  war  crimes  trials.  Eight  leading  Finnish  politicians  were 
tried  for  war  crimes  in  proceedings  lasting  from  November  1945 
to  February  1946.  Among  the  accused  were  ex-president  Risto  Ryti 
(served  1940-44),  who,  along  with  six  other  prominent  Finnish  poli- 
ticians, was  convicted  of  plotting  aggressive  war  against  the  Soviet 
Union  and  was  sentenced  to  prison. 

The  war  crimes  trials  and  other  stipulations  of  the  armistice  were 
distasteful  to  the  Finns,  but  their  careful  compliance  led  to  the 
reestablishment  of  national  sovereignty.  Compliance  may  have  been 
facilitated  by  Finland's  having  its  national  hero,  Mannerheim,  as 
president  to  carry  out  these  policies,  until  he  resigned  for  health 
reasons  in  March  1946  and  was  succeeded  by  Paasikivi.  The  sign- 
ing of  the  Treaty  of  Paris  on  February  10,  1947,  led  in  September 
1947  to  the  removal  of  the  Allied  Control  Commission. 

In  their  strict  fulfillment  of  the  Soviet  terms  of  peace,  the  Finns 
faced  other  difficulties.  The  armistice  agreement  of  September  1944 
had  legalized  the  SKP,  which  had  been  outlawed  in  1930.  In  Oc- 
tober 1944,  the  SKP  led  in  the  formation  of  the  Finnish  People's 
Democratic  League  (Suomen  Kansan  Demokraattinen  Liitto — 
SKDL).  Commonly  referred  to  as  the  People's  Democrats,  the 
SKDL  claimed  to  represent  a  broad  spectrum  of  progressive  forces. 
From  its  inception,  however,  the  SKDL  has  been  dominated  by 
the  SKP  and  has  provided  the  electoral  vehicle  by  which  members 
of  the  SKP  have  been  sent  to  the  Eduskunta. 

In  March  1945,  in  the  first  parliamentary  elections  held  after 
the  war,  the  SKDL  scored  a  major  success  by  winning  fifty-one 
seats  and  becoming  the  largest  single  party  in  the  Eduskunta  (the 
ML  had  forty-nine  and  the  SDP  had  forty-eight).  Several  factors 


54 


Historical  Setting 


account  for  the  success  of  the  communists.  A  strong  sympathy  for 
communism  among  a  large  number  of  voters  had  persisted  since 
the  Finnish  civil  war.  In  addition,  many  Social  Democratic  voters 
were  alienated  from  the  SDP  because  of  its  ardent  support  of  the 
recent  war  that  had  cost  Finland  so  dearly.  Many  Finns  who  suffered 
under  the  depressed  economic  conditions  of  postwar  Finland  voted 
for  the  SKDL  as  a  protest  gesture.  Finailly,  the  SKDL  proved  adept 
at  electoral  politics,  de-emphasizing  its  communist  ties  and 
emphasizing  its  devotion  to  democracy,  to  full  employment,  and 
to  a  peaceful  foreign  policy. 

The  SKDL  played  a  large  role  in  Finnish  politics  during  the 
immediate  postwar  years.  By  November  1944,  President  Man- 
nerheim  recognized  the  growing  power  of  the  communists  when 
he  appointed  to  the  cabinet  the  first  communist,  Yrjo  Leino,  ever 
to  hold  such  a  position.  Following  the  election  of  March  1945,  Leino 
was  appointed  to  the  important  post  of  minister  of  interior,  a  posi- 
tion from  which  he  controlled,  among  other  things,  the  state  secu- 
rity police  and  a  large  mobile  police  detachment.  The  power  of 
the  communists  was  at  its  greatest  from  1946  to  1948,  when  the 
SKDL  held,  or  shared,  as  many  as  eight  of  twelve  cabinet  posts. 
These  included  that  of  prime  minister,  which  was  held  by  Mauno 
Pekkala,  who  also  served  as  co-minister  of  defense. 

Pressures  on  Finland  reached  a  peak  in  early  1948.  In  February 
the  communists  took  Czechoslovakia  by  coup,  an  act  that  height- 
ened international  tensions  considerably.  The  Soviets  then  requested 
that  Finland  sign  a  treaty  nearly  identical  to  those  forced  on  some 
of  their  satellite  states  in  Eastern  Europe.  By  March  there  were 
rumors  of  a  possible  communist  coup  in  Finland.  Although  it  is 
not  clear  that  a  coup  was  imminent.  President  Paasikivi  took  precau- 
tionary measures.  The  Finnish  armed  forces  were  under  his  con- 
trol, and  he  summoned  them  in  strength  to  Helsinki,  where  they 
would  have  proved  more  than  a  match  for  the  police  units  of  the 
ministry  of  interior  that  were  suspected  of  involvement  in  the  coup. 

In  negotiating  the  requested  treaty,  meanwhile,  the  Soviets 
showed  a  willingness  to  accept  a  neutralized  Finland.  Paasikivi  se- 
cured significant  changes  in  the  treaty  that  gave  Finland  substan- 
tially more  independence  with  respect  to  the  Soviet  Union  than 
was  enjoyed  by  the  East  European  states  under  Soviet  domination. 
Paasikivi  had  served  notice  on  the  Soviets  that  they  would  not  get 
their  way  through  pressure,  but  rather  would  have  to  use  military 
force.  This  they  were  reluctant  to  do  in  the  tense  international  at- 
mosphere of  early  1948. 

The  Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance 
(FCMA — see  Appendix  B),  which  was  signed  on  April  6,  1948, 


55 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

has  since  then  provided  the  foundation  for  Soviet- Finnish  relations. 
The  key  provision  of  the  treaty,  in  Article  1,  calls  for  military 
cooperation  between  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union  if  Germany, 
or  a  country  allied  with  it,  attempts  to  invade  Finland  or  the  Soviet 
Union  by  way  of  Finnish  territory.  Article  2  of  the  treaty  calls  for 
military  consultations  to  precede  actucd  cooperation.  Finland's 
sovereignty  is  safeguarded,  however,  because  mutual  assistance  is 
not  automatic  but  must  be  negotiated.  The  treaty  helped  to  stabi- 
lize Soviet-Finnish  relations  by  giving  the  Soviet  Union  guaran- 
tees that  it  would  not  face  a  military  threat  from  the  direction  of 
Finland.  The  Soviets  have  been  pleased  with  the  treaty,  and  be- 
fore expiration  its  original  ten-year  term  has  been  extended  to 
twenty  years  on  three  occasions — 1955,  1970,  and  1983. 

When  new  elections  were  held  in  July  1948,  the  SKDL  suffered 
a  sharp  drop  in  support,  falling  from  fifty-one  to  thirty-eight  seats 
in  the  Eduskunta.  Communists  were  not  included  in  the  new 
government  formed  under  the  Social  Democrat  Karl-August 
Fagerholm,  and  there  was  no  communist  participation  in  Finland's 
government  again  until  1966. 

The  end  of  World  War  II  had  found  Finland  in  a  thoroughly 
weakened  state  economicsdly.  In  addition  to  its  human  and  physi- 
cal losses,  Finland  had  to  deal  with  more  than  400,000  refugees 
from  the  territories  seized  by  the  Soviets.  In  an  attempt  to  resolve 
the  refugee  problem  through  a  program  of  resetdement,  the  parlia- 
ment adopted  the  Land  Act  of  1945.  Through  the  program  thus 
established,  the  state  bought  up  farmland  through  compulsory  pur- 
chases 2ind  redistributed  it  to  refugees  and  to  ex-servicemen,  creating 
in  the  process  142,000  new  holdings.  Finland's  large  class  of 
independent  farmers  was  thereby  expanded  considerably.  Although 
many  of  the  resulting  holdings  were  too  small  to  be  economically 
viable,  they  speeded  the  integration  of  the  refugees  into  the  social 
and  economic  fabric  of  the  country. 

Reparations  were  another  burden  for  Finland.  From  the  failure 
of  the  reparations  demands  imposed  by  the  Treaty  of  Versailles, 
the  Soviets  had  drawn  the  lesson  that,  to  be  effective,  reparations 
should  take  the  form  of  deliveries  of  goods  in  kind,  rather  than  of 
financial  payments.  As  a  result,  the  Finns  were  obligated  to  make 
deliveries  of  products,  mainly  machine  goods,  cable  products,  mer- 
chant ships,  paper,  wood  pulp,  and  other  wood  products.  About 
one-third  of  the  goods  included  as  reparations  came  from  Finland's 
traditionally  strong  forest  industries,  and  the  remainder  came  from 
the  shipbuilding  and  the  metallurgical  industries,  which  were  as 
yet  only  partially  developed  in  Finland.  The  reparations  paid  from 
1944  to  1952  amounted  to  an  annual  average  of  more  than  2 


56 


Historical  Setting 


percent  of  Finland's  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary). 
The  reparations  were  delivered  according  to  a  strict  schedule,  with 
penalties  for  late  shipments.  As  the  earnestness  of  the  Finns  in  com- 
plying with  the  Soviet  demands  became  apparent,  the  Soviets  relent- 
ed somewhat  by  extending  the  payment  deadline  from  1950  to  1952, 
but  they  still  prevented  Finland  from  participating  in  the  Marshall 
Plan  (European  Recovery  Program).  The  United  States  played  an 
important  role,  nonetheless,  by  mediating  the  extension  of  finan- 
cial credits  of  more  than  US$100  million  from  its  Export-Import 
Bank  to  help  Finland  rebuild  its  economy  and  meet  its  reparations 
obligations  punctually. 

The  Finns  turned  adversity  into  advantage  by  using  the  indus- 
trial capacities  created  to  meet  the  reparations  obligations  as  the 
basis  for  thriving  export  trades  in  those  products.  As  a  result,  Fin- 
land's industrial  base  acquired  greater  balance  than  before, 
between,  on  the  one  hand,  Finland's  traditional  industries  of  lum- 
ber, wood  pulp,  and  paper  products,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
relatively  new  industries  of  shipbuilding  and  machine  production. 
Finland's  growing  integration  into  the  world  economy  was  demon- 
strated by  its  joining  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT— see  Glossary)  in  1949. 

Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics,  1948-66 

The  underlying  assumption  of  Paasikivi's  foreign  policy  was  that 
the  Soviets  could  tolerate  the  existence  of  an  independent  Finland 
only  because  Finland  was  peripheral  to  the  Soviet  Union's  main 
strategic  interests  in  Central  Europe.  Paasikivi  sought  to  reinforce 
that  Soviet  attitude  by  actively  demonstrating  that  Finland  would 
never  again  be  a  source  of  danger  to  the  Soviet  Union.  The  com- 
bination of  traditional  neutrality  plus  friendly  measures  toward  the 
Soviets  was  known  as  the  Paasikivi  Line.  Continued  by  Paasiki- 
vi's successor  as  president,  Urho  Kekkonen  (in  office  1956-81), 
the  policy  came  to  be  known  as  the  so-called  Paasikivi-Kekkonen 
Line.  It  remained  the  foundation  of  Finland's  foreign  policy  in  the 
late  1980s. 

Paasikivi's  statesmanship  was  rewarded  in  1955,  when  the  Soviet 
Union  returned  the  Porkkala  Peninsula  to  Finland,  well  before  the 
end  of  the  fifty-year  lease  granted  in  1944.  The  return  of  Porkkala 
ended  the  stationing  of  Soviet  troops  on  Finnish  soil,  and  it  strength- 
ened Finland's  claim  to  neutrsdity.  The  Soviets  also  allowed  Fin- 
land to  take  a  more  active  part  on  the  international  scene.  In 
December  1955,  Finland  was  admitted  to  the  United  Nations  (UN); 
in  that  same  year  Finland  joined  the  Nordic  Council  (see  Foreign 
Relations,  ch.  4). 


57 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


In  the  three  parhamentary  elections  held  during  Paasikivi's 
presidency— those  of  1948,  1951,  and  1954— the  SDP  and  the  ML 
received  the  largest  number  of  votes  and  provided  the  basis  for 
several  of  the  government  coalitions.  These  so-called  Red-Earth 
coalitions  revived  the  prewar  cooperation  between  these  parties  and 
laid  the  basis  for  their  subsequent  cooperation,  which  was  a  major 
feature  of  Finnish  politics  after  World  War  11.  The  communist- 
dominated  SKDL  retained  some  power  because  of  domestic  dis- 
content; in  the  elections  of  1951  and  1954,  it  won  more  than  20 
percent  of  the  vote. 

Domestic  politics  during  Paasikivi's  presidency  were  character- 
ized by  conflict  and  instability.  During  those  ten  years,  1946  to 
1956,  there  were  nine  government  coalitions,  nearly  one  per  year. 
The  issues  that  divided  the  parties  and  brought  such  frequent 
changes  of  government  were  primarily  economic,  centering  on  the 
rising  cost  of  living.  One  early  attempt  to  solve  conflicts  among 
the  various  sectors  of  the  economy  was  the  so-called  General  Agree- 
ment made  in  1946  between  the  Confederation  of  Finnish  Trade 
Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiyhdistysten  Keskusliitto — SAK)  and  the 
Confederation  of  Finnish  Employers  (Suomen  Tyonantajain 
Keskusliitto — STK).  The  General  Agreement,  which  called  for 
compulsory  negotiations  between  labor  and  management,  was  used 
as  a  basis  for  reconciling  industrial  disputes.  Another  milestone 
was  the  Casde  Peace  Agreement  of  1951  that  brought  together  the 
main  economic  interest  groups  for  a  wage  and  price  freeze  that 
helped  to  establish  a  precedent  for  wage  and  price  control.  Neverthe- 
less, throughout  these  years  there  were  frequent  strikes. 

The  intensity  of  the  conflict  over  economic  issues  was  demon- 
strated by  the  general  strike  of  1956,  the  first  general  strike  in  Fin- 
land since  November  1917.  The  cause  of  the  nineteen-day  general 
strike  was  an  increase  in  food  prices  for  which  the  trade  unions 
demanded  a  wage  increase  as  compensation.  When  the  employers 
refused  the  wage  increase,  the  trade  unions  called  the  general  strike. 
More  than  400,000  workers — about  one-fifth  of  the  total  work 
force — participated,  the  flow  of  various  vital  supplies  was  disrupted, 
and  some  violence  occurred.  The  strike  ended  when  the  employ- 
ers agreed  to  the  wage  increases  demanded  by  the  unions.  These 
wage  increases,  however,  were  largely  cancelled  out  by  subsequent 
rises  in  consumer  prices. 

Paasikivi's  successor,  Kekkonen,  assumed  office  in  March  1956, 
and  he  remained  as  president  until  1981.  A  member  of  the  ML, 
he  had  been  one  of  only  three  members  of  the  parliament  who  voted 
against  the  Peace  of  Moscow  in  1940.  The  following  year,  he  had 
been  one  of  the  most  outspoken  advocates  of  the  Continuation  War. 


58 


Juho  Kusti  Paasikivi 
president  of  Finland,  1946-56 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


Urho  Kekkonen,  president 
of  Finland,  1956-81 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

By  1943,  however,  he  had  reversed  himself  totally  in  calling  for 
reconciliation  between  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union,  and  he  re- 
mained a  leading  advocate  of  that  policy  for  the  remainder  of  his 
life.  From  1944  to  1946,  he  served  as  minister  of  justice,  a  posi- 
tion from  which  he  prosecuted  Finnish  war  criminals.  Between  1950 
and  1956,  he  served  as  prime  minister  in  five  cabinets,  before  be- 
ing elected  president  in  1956. 

Kekkonen  demonstrated  his  mastery  of  politics  by  bringing  Fin- 
land successfully  through  two  major  crises  with  the  Soviet  Union, 
the  first  in  1958  to  1959  (the  Night  Frost  Crisis)  and  the  second 
in  1961  (the  Note  Crisis).  The  Night  Frost  Crisis  received  its  name 
from  the  Soviet  leader,  Nikita  Khrushchev,  who  declared  that 
Soviet-Finnish  relations  had  undergone  a  "night  frost."  The  im- 
mediate origins  of  the  crisis  lay  in  Finnish  elections  of  1958,  in  which 
the  SKDL  won  the  largest  popular  vote  and  the  largest  parliamen- 
tary representation  of  all  Finnish  parties  but  was  not  given  a  place 
in  the  Finnish  government  headed  by  the  Social  Democrat, 
Fagerholm.  As  a  result,  the  Soviets  recalled  their  ambassador  from 
Helsinki  and  generally  made  known  their  unhappiness  with  the 
Fagerholm  government. 

Two  reasons  are  generally  brought  forward  for  this  instance  of 
Soviet  interference  in  Finland's  domestic  politics.  One  was  the 
Soviet  dislike  of  certain  Social  Democrats,  whom  they  referred  to 
as  "Tannerites,"  after  the  long-time  leader  of  the  SDP,  Vaino  Tan- 
ner. The  second  reason  may  have  been  the  international  crisis  of 
the  late  1950s  that  centered  on  West  Berlin.  Underlying  the  Soviet 
actions  was  the  traditional  fear  of  a  German  resurgence;  the  Soviets 
imagined  a  renewed  German  military  threat's  developing  through 
Germany's  North  Adantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  partners, 
Denmark  and  Norway. 

Kekkonen  defused  the  crisis  by  pulling  the  ML  out  of  the  govern- 
ment coalition,  thereby  toppling  the  SDP  government  that  was 
objectionable  to  the  Soviets.  The  alacrity  with  which  Kekkonen 
placated  the  Soviets  resolved  the  crisis. 

The  Note  Crisis  of  1961,  far  more  serious  than  the  1958  crisis, 
constituted  the  most  severe  strain  in  Soviet-Finnish  relations  since 
1948.  On  October  30,  1961,  the  Soviet  government  sent  a  note 
to  Finland  that  called  for  mutual  military  consultations  according 
to  Article  2  of  the  1948  FCMA  treaty.  For  Finland,  the  note 
represented  a  real  threat  of  Soviet  military  intervention.  As  dur- 
ing the  1958  crisis,  a  tense  international  situation  coupled  with 
Soviet  fears  of  a  German  military  resurgence  led  to  Soviet  pres- 
sure on  Finland.  There  was  also  a  domestic  side  to  the  crisis;  as 
in  1958,  the  Soviets  considered  certain  elements  on  the  Finnish 


60 


Historical  Setting 


political  scene  to  be  objectionable.  The  Soviets  were  concerned 
about  the  SDP,  especially  about  the  SDP  nominee  for  president, 
Olavi  Honka.  Delivered  only  two  and  one-half  months  before  the 
Finnish  presidential  elections,  the  Soviet  note  demonstrated  clearly 
which  candidate  the  Soviets  preferred.  In  response  to  the  note,  Kek- 
konen  sought  to  placate  Soviet  fears  by  dissolving  the  Finnish  parlia- 
ment in  November  1961.  He  then  flew  to  Novosibirsk,  where  he 
met  with  Khrushchev  and,  after  three  days  of  personal  consulta- 
tions, succeeded  in  winning  Khrushchev's  confidence  to  such  a 
degree  that  the  call  for  military  consultations  was  rescinded.  The 
Note  Crisis  not  only  constituted  a  personal  diplomatic  triumph  for 
Kekkonen  but  also  led  to  an  era  of  increased  confidence-building 
measures  between  the  two  governments. 

For  Kekkonen,  the  lesson  of  the  Note  Crisis  was  that  the  Soviets 
needed  continual  reassurance  of  Finnish  neutrality.  He  pointed  out 
that  Soviet  mistrust  of  Finnish  declarations  of  neutrality  in  the  1930s 
had  led  to  war.  After  1961,  the  Finns  took  great  pains  to  demon- 
strate their  neutrality  and  to  prevent  a  repetition  of  the  Note  Cri- 
sis. The  effort  to  win  the  trust  of  the  Soviets  led  Kekkonen  in  two 
directions — expanded  trade  and  cultural  contacts  between  the  two 
countries  and  a  more  active  international  political  role  in  which 
Finland  worked  to  promote  peace  in  Northern  Europe  and  around 
the  world. 

Kekkonen  sought  to  create  ever-wider  zones  of  peace  around  Fin- 
land; thus,  he  became  a  determined  advocate  of  an  entirely  neu- 
tral Northern  Europe,  a  position  he  had  enunciated  as  early  as  1952. 
The  Danes  and  the  Norwegians,  however,  generally  did  not  accept 
neutrality  because  they  would  thereby  lose  the  military  protection 
of  NATO.  In  1963  Kekkonen  also  proposed  a  Nordic  Nuclear- 
Weapons-Free  Zone  (Nordic  NWFZ — see  Neutrality,  ch.  4).  Kek- 
konen's  advocacy  of  these  peace  issues  helped  him  to  win  the  vir- 
tually unquestioned  confidence  of  the  Soviets  and  precluded  a 
repetition  of  the  Note  Crisis. 

Conflict  among  Finnish  political  parties  was  so  great  that,  dur- 
ing the  twenty-five  years  of  Kekkonen' s  tenure  as  president,  there 
were  twenty-six  governments.  Among  these  twenty-six  governments 
were  six  nonpartisan  caretaker  governments,  formed  when  con- 
flicts among  the  parties  became  too  intense  to  permit  their  joining 
in  coalition  governments.  As  during  the  years  of  the  Paasikivi 
presidency,  there  was  greater  agreement  on  foreign  policy  issues 
than  on  economic  concerns.  An  especially  divisive  issue  was  whether 
or  not  to  link  agricultural  income,  consumer  prices,  and  workers' 
wages,  and  thus  to  reconcile  the  competing  aims  of  the  main  sec- 
tors of  the  economy — farming,  capital,  and  labor. 


61 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


The  conflict  over  domestic  policies  was  also  evident  in  the  con- 
sistent strength  of  the  protest  vote  in  elections.  The  electoral  vehi- 
cle of  the  communists,  the  SKDL,  polled  more  than  20  percent 
of  the  vote  in  the  1958,  the  1962,  and  the  1966  parliamentary  elec- 
tions. That  same  discontent  brought  about  the  emergence  of  another 
protest  party,  the  Social  Democratic  Union  of  Workers  and  Small 
Farmers  (Tyovaen  ja  Pienviljelijain  Sosialidemokraattinen  Liitto — 
TPSL),  which  broke  off  from  the  SDP  in  1959.  The  TPSL  advo- 
cated both  a  friendlier  stance  toward  the  Soviet  Union  and  more 
active  measures  to  protect  workers'  and  farmers'  economic  interests.. 
In  1959  a  breakaway  group  from  the  ML  formed  a  party  called 
the  Finnish  Small  Farmers'  Party;  in  1966  its  name  was  changed 
to  the  Finnish  Rural  Party  (Suomen  Maaseudun  Puolue — SMP). 
Led  by  Veikko  Vennamo,  the  SMP  spoke  for  the  so-called  For- 
gotten Finland,  the  small  farmers,  mainly  of  northern  and  eastern 
Finland,  who  lived  a  precarious  economic  existence.  The  SMP 
made  a  breakthrough  into  the  ranks  of  the  major  parties  in  the 
parliamentary  elections  of  1970  by  winning  eighteen  seats  in  the 
Eduskunta,  but  in  following  years  its  power  fluctuated  greatly. 

Kekkonen's  personal  triumph  in  the  Note  Crisis  led  not  only 
to  his  reelection  as  president  in  1962,  but  also  to  the  dominance, 
for  a  short  time,  of  his  own  party,  the  ML.  (From  1958  to  1966, 
the  SDP  was  considered  too  anti- Soviet  to  be  part  of  a  government.) 
The  ML  provided  the  basis  for  the  various  coalition  governments 
formed  during  those  years.  In  its  desire  to  be  at  the  center  of  Fin- 
nish politics,  the  ML  changed  its  name  to  the  Center  Party 
(Keskustapuolue — Kesk)  in  1965.  The  presence  of  this  large  and 
important  agrarian-based  party  at  the  center  of  the  political  spec- 
trum has  characterized  the  Finnish  political  system  since  indepen- 
dence. Fifty-four  of  sixty-four  Finnish  governments  (through  1988) 
included  the  Agrarian/Center  Party,  compared  with  thirty- three 
for  the  SDP,  and  twenty- six  for  the  KOK;  furthermore,  three  of 
Finland's  nine  presidents,  Relander,  Kallio,  and  Kekkonen  have 
belonged  to  this  party  (see  table  3,  Appendix  A). 

Finland's  economy  underwent  a  major  transformation  in  the 
1950s  and  the  1960s,  shifting  from  a  predominantly  agrarian  econ- 
omy to  an  increasingly  industrial  one  (see  Economic  Development, 
ch.  3).  The  number  of  workers  engaged  in  agriculture  and  for- 
estry dropped  from  about  50  percent  to  about  25  percent,  and  the 
decline  of  this  traditionally  dominant  sector  of  the  economy  con- 
tinued into  the  late  1980s.  After  the  Soviet  reparations  were  paid 
off  in  1952,  Soviet-Finnish  trade  did  not  decline,  but  rather  it 
increased.  In  1947  the  Treaty  of  Paris  had  been  followed  by  a 
Finnish- Soviet  commercial  treaty  that  provided  the  framework  for 


62 


Historical  Setting 


expanded  trade  between  the  two  countries  (see  Regional  Econom- 
ic Integration,  ch.  3).  The  Five-Year  Framework  Agreement  of 
1951,  which  has  been  renewed  repeatedly,  established  this  trade 
on  a  highly  regulated  basis.  To  a  large  extent,  the  trade  consisted 
of  Finland's  selling  machine  goods  to  the  Soviets  in  exchange  for 
crude  oil.  Finland  benefited  from  the  arrangement  because  Fin- 
nish products  sold  well  in  the  Soviet  market,  which  could  be  counted 
on  regardless  of  fluctuations  in  the  Western  economic  system.  In- 
creased trade  between  the  two  countries  also  strengthened  the  po- 
litical relationship  between  them. 

Throughout  the  postwar  period,  the  Soviet  Union  has  been  Fin- 
land's single  most  important  trading  partner,  generally  account- 
ing for  20  percent  to  25  percent  of  Finland's  total  imports  and 
exports.  Nevertheless,  Finland's  goal  has  been  to  create  a  balanced 
trade  system  embracing  both  East  and  West,  and  more  than  70 
percent  of  Finland's  trade  has  been  with  noncommunist  states.  Fin- 
land's main  trading  partners,  after  the  Soviet  Union,  have  been 
Sweden,  Britain,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germa- 
ny), and  the  United  States,  in  order  of  importance.  This  trade  has 
consisted  mainly  of  the  export  of  timber,  pulp,  and  paper  products 
in  exchange  for  other  countries'  manufactures,  technology,  and 
raw  materials  for  Finland's  various  industries  (see  Foreign  Eco- 
nomic Relations,  ch.  3).  In  maintaining  good  economic  ties  with 
these  countries,  Finland  has  had  to  overcome  persistent  Soviet  sus- 
picions; however,  Finland  was  allowed  to  join  the  European  Free 
Trade  Association  (EFTA — see  Glossary)  as  an  associate  member 
in  1961  in  the  so-called  FINEFTA  agreement.  The  members  of 
EFTA,  including  Finland,  signed  free- trade  agreements  with  the 
European  Economic  Community  (EEC — see  Glossary)  in  1973. 
Finland  placated  the  Soviets  for  these  initiatives  by  signing  a  trade 
agreement  in  1973  with  the  Council  for  Mutual  Economic 
Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon — see  Glossary),  the 
Soviets'  organization  for  trade  and  cooperation  with  its  East 
European  allies.  Nevertheless,  through  the  trading  arrangements 
with  EFTA  and  the  EEC,  Finland  gained  greater  economic  in- 
dependence from  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  economic  growth  that  Finland  has  experienced  in  this  cen- 
tury has  laid  the  foundation  for  its  social  welfare  state.  The  benefits 
of  economic  prosperity  have  been  spread  around  to  the  popula- 
tion as  a  whole,  with  the  result  that  the  Finns  have  enjoyed  a  level 
of  material  security  unsurpassed  in  their  history.  Conceived  not 
as  a  whole,  but  as  a  series  of  responses  to  specific  needs,  the  social 
welfare  system  has  become  strongly  rooted.  Among  its  main  com- 
ponents are  several  forms  of  social  insurance:  allowances  for  mothers 


63 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

and  children,  aimed  at  encouraging  people  to  have  children;  pen- 
sions; and  national  health  insurance.  By  1977  social  welfare 
expenditures  accounted  for  over  20  percent  of  GDP  (see  Growth 
of  the  Social  Welfare  System,  ch.  2).  The  general  effect  of  these 
measures  has  been  to  raise  the  standard  of  living  of  the  average 
Finn  and  to  remove  the  sources  of  discontent  caused  by  material 
want. 

Finland  in  the  Era  of  Consensus^  1966-81 

The  parliamentary  elections  of  1966  marked  a  major  turning 
point  in  Finnish  politics.  As  in  most  of  the  recent  Finnish  parliaimen- 
tary  elections,  the  main  debate  centered  on  domestic  issues.  One 
issue  in  1966  was  the  need  to  promote  economic  development  in 
the  northern  part  of  Finland,  which  was  lagging  behind  the  more 
prosperous  southern  part  of  the  country.  The  parliamentary  elec- 
tions were  a  great  victory  for  the  socialist  parties,  which  gained 
103  seats,  their  first  absolute  majority  in  parliament  since  1916  (see 
table  4,  Appendix  A).  Changes  in  the  leadership  of  the  SDP — 
which  under  a  new  party  chairman,  Rafael  Paasio,  had  become 
more  temperate  in  its  attitude  toward  the  Soviet  Union — had  made 
the  SDP  a  viable  partner  in  the  government.  Kekkonen  thereupon 
took  the  major  step  of  allying  his  Kesk  with  the  SDP  and  with  other 
leftist  parties  in  order  to  help  achieve  a  greater  measure  of  cooper- 
ation in  Finnish  politics.  The  Red-Earth  coalition  was  thus  revived, 
and  the  communists  enjoyed  their  first  participation  in  government 
since  1948.  Center-left  coalition  governments  dominated  Finnish 
politics  for  several  elections  after  1966,  and  this  cooperation  among 
center  and  left  parties  contributed  to  a  growing  consensus  in  Fin- 
nish political  life. 

The  core  of  the  developing  consensus  politics  was  the  participa- 
tion of  all  market  sectors  in  major  economic  decisions.  This  had 
begun  earlier,  but  was  now  intensified.  A  milestone,  for  example, 
was  the  conclusion  in  March  1968  of  the  Liinamaa  Agreement, 
the  first  comprehensive  settlement  among  the  economic  interest 
groups  that  regulated  agricultural  prices,  workers'  wages,  and 
industrial  productivity.  This  agreement  brought  together  the  trade 
union  organization,  SAK,  the  employers'  organization,  STK,  and 
the  Confederation  of  Agricultural  Producers  (Maatadoustuottajain 
Keskusliitto — MTK).  The  agreement  was  made  possible  in  large 
part  by  Kekkonen 's  active  intervention.  In  succeeding  years,  the 
creation  of  package  deals  to  regulate  conflicts  among  the  various 
sectors  of  the  economy  became  a  regular  feature  of  political  life. 
One  important  government- sponsored  meeting  among  these  vari- 
ous economic  interests,  at  the  Korpilampi  Motel  near  Helsinki 


64 


Historical  Setting 


in  1977,  led  to  the  coining  of  the  phrase  "the  spirit  of  Korpilampi" 
to  describe  this  growing  spirit  of  cooperation. 

Another  milestone  in  Finland's  development  was  reached  in  1969 
with  the  amalgamation  of  two  competing  trade  union  organiza- 
tions— the  smaJler,  communist-dominated  SAJ  and  the  larger,  So- 
cial Democrat-dominated  Confederation  of  Finnish  Trade  Unions 
(Suomen  Ammattiyhdistysten  Keskusliitto — SAK) — into  the  Cen- 
tral Organization  of  Finnish  Trade  Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiliit- 
tojen  Keskusjarjesto — SAK).  By  the  1980s,  it  had  succeeded  in 
organizing  about  85  percent  of  Finland's  total  work  force,  one  of 
the  highest  percentages  in  the  world. 

Between  the  watershed  election  of  1966  and  the  late  1980s,  there 
were  several  more  parliamentary  elections.  Throughout  these  elec- 
tions, the  SDP  remained  the  largest  party,  and  Kesk,  the  KOK, 
and  the  SKDL  competed  for  the  next  three  positions.  A  series  of 
center-left  governments  came  into  power  from  1966  to  the  1980s, 
and  these  generally  brocid-based  coalitions — together  with  the  pack- 
age deals  for  regulating  conflicts  in  the  economy — helped  to  make 
this  period  the  most  politically  stable  in  the  history  of  the  Finnish 
Republic.  Although  there  was  some  instability  at  the  cabinet  level, 
where  until  recent  ye2irs  there  was  a  new  cabinet  nearly  every  year, 
the  presidency  added  stability;  between  1946  and  the  late  1980s, 
Finland  had  only  three  presidents. 

The  pathbreaking  center-left  cabinet  of  1966,  which  was  head- 
ed by  the  Socicd  Democrat  Rafael  Paasio  as  prime  minister,  lasted 
until  1968  (see  table  5,  Appendix  A).  Conflicts  over  economic  is- 
sues, especially  incomes  and  prices  policy,  brought  the  downfall 
of  the  Paasio  cabinet  and  the  formation  of  a  new  one  under  the 
Social  Democrat,  and  head  of  the  Bank  of  Finland,  Mauno 
Koivisto.  This  cabinet,  which  lasted  until  the  parliamentary  elec- 
tion of  1970,  included  the  three  socialist  parties,  Kesk,  and  the  SFP. 

In  spite  of  the  growing  consensus  in  Finnish  politics,  the  1970s 
witnessed  increased  votes  for  non- government  parties  and  sustained 
conflicts  in  parliament.  In  the  1970  parliamentary  elections,  for 
example,  Kesk  lost  about  one- third  of  its  strength,  and  the  KOK, 
which  was  not  part  of  the  government,  rose  from  fourth  place  among 
parties  to  second.  Even  more  striking,  the  SMP,  which  relied  on 
small,  economiczdly  vulnerable  farmers,  increased  its  vote  almost 
tenfold.  In  addition,  the  conflicts  among  the  parties  were  so  in- 
tense that  no  coalition  could  be  established,  and,  instead,  a  non- 
partisan caretaker  government  was  installed.  It  lasted  sixty-three 
days.  Finally,  a  broad-based  coalition  was  established  under  the 
Kesk  politician  Ahti  Karjalainen.  This  coalition  included  Kesk, 
the  SDP,  the  SKDL,  the  SFP,  and  the  Liberal  People's  Party 


65 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

(Liberaalinen  Kansanpuolue — LKP).  The  SKDL  withdrew  from 
this  government  in  1971  because  of  conflicts  within  the  party.  Kar- 
jalainen's  coalition  fell  in  late  1971  because  of  disagreement  over 
economic  issues,  especially  inflation,  the  balance  of  payments,  and 
growing  unemployment.  New  parliamentary  elections  were  called 
for  early  1972,  two  years  ahead  of  schedule.  Another  nonpartisan 
caretaker  government  held  power  until  the  election. 

The  results  of  the  1972  elections  were  similar  to  those  of  the  1970 
elections,  except  that  the  KOK  fell  from  second  place  to  fourth. 
Political  conflicts  among  the  parties,  however,  stiU  kept  a  worka- 
ble coalition  from  being  formed,  and,  as  a  result,  a  minority  SDP 
government  was  created  with  Paasio  as  prime  minister.  It  lasted 
five  months.  President  Kekkonen's  direct  intervention  helped  to 
bring  about  the  formation  of  a  coalition  under  the  Social  Democrat 
Kalevi  Sorsa  in  the  fall  of  1972;  this  four-party  coalition  included 
the  SDP,  Kesk,  the  SFP,  and  the  LKP.  The  Sorsa  government 
held  together  until  the  1975  parliamentary  election,  an  unconmionly 
long  time  in  recent  Finnish  history. 

Finland's  growing  economic  difficulties,  which  stemmed  from 
the  world  economic  crisis  that  began  in  1973,  provided  the  back- 
ground for  the  parliamentary  elections  of  1975.  The  SKDL 
increased  its  vote  to  almost  19  percent,  making  it  the  second  lar- 
gest pcirty.  Following  the  election,  the  parties  were  reluctant  to  agree 
on  terms  for  a  coalition  government.  Kekkonen  thereupon 
appointed  Keijo  Liinamaa,  a  retired  Kesk  leader,  as  prime  minister 
of  a  caretciker  government  that  lasted  about  five  months.  Kekko- 
nen's direct,  public  intervention  made  possible  the  formation  of 
a  large,  five-party  (the  SDP,  Kesk,  the  SKDL,  the  SFP,  and  LKP) 
coalition  with  the  Kesk  politician  Martti  Miettunen  as  prime 
minister.  The  following  year,  the  SDP  and  the  SKDL  left  the  coa- 
lition as  a  result  of  conflicts  with  the  other  parties.  The  Miettunen 
government  fell  in  1977  because  of  Finland's  continuing  economic 
difficulties,  and  a  center-left  government  was  formed  under  Kalevi 
Sorsa,  Finland's  sixtieth  government  in  sixty  years.  Included  in 
the  five-party  coalition  were  the  SDP,  Kesk,  the  SKDL,  the  SFP, 
and  LKP.  The  following  year,  the  SFP  withdrew  from  the  coali- 
tion because  of  conflicts  with  the  other  parties,  but  the  Sorsa  govern- 
ment lasted  until  the  1979  parliamentary  election. 

The  main  issues  in  the  1979  parliamentary  election  were  unem- 
ployment and  t2ixation.  The  election  witnessed  a  resurgence  of  the 
KOK,  which  became  the  second  largest  party,  behind  the  SDP, 
but  was  still  excluded  from  governmental  coalitions  (see  table  6, 
Appendix  A).  A  major  political  crisis,  called  the  "Midsummer 
Bomb,"  was  unleashed  by  a  Kesk  leader's  incautious  statement 


66 


Historical  Setting 


that  the  KOK  was  kept  out  of  power  because  it  was  unacceptable 
to  the  Soviets,  although  in  reality  domestic  political  considerations 
may  have  played  a  role  in  its  exclusion  from  the  government. 
Another  protest  against  the  established  consensus  was  registered 
in  the  1979  election  by  the  Finnish  Christian  League  (Suomen 
Kristillinen  Liitto — SKL),  which  represented  a  religious  backlash 
against  secularization  and  which  polled  4.8  percent  of  the  total  vote. 
Nevertheless,  a  center-left  coalition  was  established  under  Koivisto; 
the  coalition  included  the  SDP,  Kesk,  the  SKDL,  and  the  SFP, 
and  it  lasted  until  early  1982,  when  Koivisto  was  elected  president. 

Corresponding  to  the  growth  of  political  consensus  in  Finland 
was  the  increase  in  social  consensus:  the  divisions  of  previous  de- 
cades, especially  the  conflicts  between  language  groups  and  between 
the  working  class  and  the  middle  class,  diminished. 

The  Swedish-speaking  minority  declined  steadily  in  the  twen- 
tieth century  from  350,000,  or  13  percent  of  the  population,  in  1906 
(the  year  the  SFP  was  founded  to  protect  the  interests  of  Swedish 
speakers)  to  about  300,000,  or  6  percent  of  the  population,  in  the 
1980s.  The  decline  has  been  attributed  both  to  emigration  to  Sweden 
(largely  for  economic  reasons)  and  to  the  gradual  Finnicization  of 
society.  Swedish  remained  one  of  the  two  official  languages  of  Fin- 
land, nevertheless,  and  a  separate  Swedish-language  educational 
establishment  was  maintained  (see  Swedish- speaiking  Finns,  ch.  2). 

The  slow  decline  of  the  communist  vote  in  Finland  since  the  1960s 
has  been  interpreted  as  a  sign  that  the  wounds  caused  by  the  civil 
war  have  gradually  healed  and  that  Finland  has  achieved  a  larger 
measure  of  nation2il  integration.  In  the  seven  parliamentary  elec- 
tions from  1945  to  1966,  the  SKDL  won  20  to  25  percent  of  the 
popular  vote  and  a  correspondingly  large  representation  in  parlia- 
ment. Active  participation  in  the  government,  beginning  in  1966, 
was  followed  by  a  decline  in  its  electoral  success.  In  1969,  Finnish 
communists  dropped  the  aim  of  revolution  from  their  program. 

One  major  problem  that  developed  in  these  years,  however,  was 
the  urban-rural  cleavage,  which  was  compounded  by  regional  differ- 
ences. The  relatively  urbanized,  industrialized,  and  prosperous 
south  and  west  contrasted  strongly  with  the  basically  rural,  agrar- 
ian, and  less  prosperous  north  and  east.  The  protest  vote  was  typi- 
cally stronger  in  the  north  and  the  east  than  it  was  elsewhere.  The 
government  has  tried  to  relieve  discontent  with  subsidies  for  the 
smaller,  less-prosperous  farmers  and  through  other  social  welfare 
measures  (see  Agriculture,  ch.  3). 

During  the  postwar  era,  Finland  changed  from  a  primarily  agrar- 
ian society  to  an  urban  society,  from  a  land  of  peasant  proprietors 
to  a  modern  society  with  a  predominance  of  urban-dwelling. 


67 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

white-collar  and  blue-collar  workers  (see  Demography;  Social  Struc- 
ture, ch.  2).  Along  with  the  changes  in  social  and  in  economic  cir- 
cumstances went  changes  in  popular  attitudes;  in  particular, 
cosmopolitanism  increased.  Just  as  modem  productive  technolo- 
gy has  made  possible  an  unprecedented  material  prosp>erity,  so  also 
has  modem  communications  technology  speeded  the  diffusion  of 
new  ideas,  breaking  down  Finland's  culturad  isolation.  In  the 
process,  however,  traditioncd  values  have  come  under  assault  by 
cultural  imports  from  Western  Europe. 

President  Kekkonen  exerted  a  formidable  influence  on  Finland's 
development  during  his  long  tenure  as  president  from  1956  to  1981 . 
He  was  re-elected  in  1962  and  in  1968  by  larger  percentages  of 
votes  than  any  other  Finnish  president  had  ever  received.  In  1973 
his  term  of  office  was  extended  for  four  yesirs  by  special  act  of  parlia- 
ment. This  extension,  it  now  appears,  was  designed  to  reassure 
the  Soviets  that  Finnish  foreign  policy  would  remain  the  same, 
despite  the  free-trade  agreement  with  the  EEC  that  was  concluded 
in  1973.  It  was  evidence  of  Kekkonen 's  international  stature  that 
he  hosted  the  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
from  1973  to  1975,  a  conference  that  culminated  in  the  signing 
of  the  Helsinki  Accords  in  1975.  By  then  Kekkonen  was  generally 
recognized  as  indispensable  to  Finnish  politics,  and  he  was  re-elected 
again  in  1978  with  the  support  of  all  major  parties.  Bad  health  forced 
him  to  resign  in  October  1981  at  the  age  of  eighty-one;  he  lived 
in  retirement  until  his  death  in  1986.  His  successor  as  president,  the 
Social  Democrat  Mauno  Koivisto,  began  his  term  of  service  in  Janu- 
ary 1982. 

The  great  majority  of  the  Finnish  people  and  their  political  par- 
ties have  continued  to  agree  on  the  Paasikivi-Kekkonen  Line  as 
the  basis  of  Finland's  foreign  policy.  Only  a  few  political  extremists 
have  opposed  it,  and  they  have  been  excluded  from  any  role  in 
formulating  foreign  policy.  A  tiny  splinter  group  from  the  conser- 
vatives appeared  during  the  1970s  as  a  protest  against  Kekkonen's 
allegedly  too  pro-Soviet  foreign  policy.  Since  1980  this  group  has 
been  called  the  Constitutional  Party  of  the  Right  (Pemstuslailli- 
nen  Oikeistopuolue — POP),  but  it  has  achieved  virtually  no  in- 
fluence. 

«    *  * 

Although  there  are  a  number  of  useful  historical  works  about 
Finland  in  English,  the  best  sources  are  in  Swedish  and  Finnish. 
A  good  introduction  to  Finnish  history  is  Eino  Jutikkala's  A  His- 
tory of  Finland.  Anthony  F.  Upton's  well  regarded  The  Finnish 


68 


Historical  Setting 


Revolution,  1917-1918  deals  with  a  crucial  episode  in  modern  Fin- 
nish history.  Risto  Alapuro's  State  and  Revolution  in  Finland  is  a 
sophisticated  examination  of  the  social  forces  involved  in  the  for- 
mation of  the  Finnish  state.  C.  Leonard  Lundin's  Finland  in  the 
Second  World  War  was  a  pioneering  work  when  it  appeared  in  1957 
and  is  still  considered  the  definitive  book  on  the  subject  in  English. 
Lundin's  essay  on  Russification  in  Edward  C.  Thaden's  Russifica- 
tion  in  the  Baltic  Provinces  and  Finland,  1855-1914  is  a  solid  work  on 
that  subject.  D.G.  Kirby's  Finland  in  the  Twentieth  Century  is  an  in- 
terpretive history  of  the  period  through  the  1970s.  Among  the  best 
available  works  that  analyze  the  development  of  Finland's  foreign 
policy  since  World  War  II  is  Roy  Allison's  Finland's  Relations  with 
the  Soviet  Union,  1944-84.  There  is  a  useful  collection  of  speeches 
by  President  Urho  Kekkonen,  edited  by  Tuomas  Vilkuna  titled 
Neutrality:  The  Finnish  Position.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


69 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Medieval  church  with  uncoursed  stone  walls  and 
brick- decorated  gables,  built  circa  1480  at  Hollola, 
approximately  100  kilometers  from  Helsinki 


Finland  has  been  on  Europe's  periphery,  both  physically 
and  socially,  for  almost  all  its  history.  It  is  Europe's  northernmost 
country,  with  a  quarter  of  its  area  above  the  Arctic  Circle.  By  the 
late  1980s,  however,  modern  means  of  communication  had  sub- 
stantially reduced  its  physical  remoteness  from  the  rest  of  Europe. 
Modern  technology  also  had  lessened  winter's  hold  on  the  coun- 
try. Finns  lived  comfortably,  and  they  moved  about  freely  the  whole 
year.  In  the  social  realm,  Finland  had  left  its  traditional  poverty 
and  backwardness  behind.  Since  World  War  II,  it  had  become  one 
of  the  world's  most  advanced  societies.  Its  citizens  enjoyed  prosperi- 
ty and  meaningful  employment,  as  well  as  benefits  from  the  social 
measures  they  had  forged,  which  guaranteed  everyone  a  decent 
and  humane  share  of  the  prosperity. 

During  the  course  of  their  history,  Finns  have  cJways  moved 
about,  both  within  their  country  and  abroad.  The  years  after  World 
War  II  saw,  however,  an  unprecedented  population  shift  away  from 
the  countryside  to  the  increasingly  more  urbanized  south.  New 
industries  and  a  rapidly  growing  service  sector  meant  that  the  work 
force  not  only  relocated,  but  also  changed  in  character.  Agricul- 
ture's and  forestry's  combined  share  of  the  work  force  declined  from 
about  50  percent  in  1950  to  about  10  percent  in  1980.  Industry's 
share  remained  unchanged  at  about  20  percent,  while  that  of  the 
service  sector  doubled  from  9  percent  to  18  percent.  Between  1950 
and  1980,  the  number  of  students  and  pensioners  quadrupled,  going 
from  6  to  24  percent,  reflecting  a  wealthier  and  healthier  society. 

Personal  relationships  also  changed.  Families  became  smaller; 
divorce  became  more  common.  A  growing  public  sector  meant  that 
many  tasks  previously  managed  by  the  family  could  now  be 
entrusted  to  the  state.  Lessened  dependence  on  the  family  also 
meant  greater  freedom  for  women.  This  was  reflected  in  new  legis- 
lation that  gave  women  greater  equality  with  men.  Traditional 
habits  persisted,  however,  and  in  the  late  1980s  Finland's  women 
still  had  a  secondary  place  at  home,  in  the  workplace,  and  in  politics. 

Finland  was  a  remarkably  homogeneous  country.  It  had  no  racial 
minorities.  The  largest  minority  group,  the  Swedish-speaking  Finns, 
was  so  well  assimilated  with  the  majority  that  there  were  fears  it 
would  eventu2Jly  disappear.  In  fact,  the  group's  share  of  the  coun- 
try's population  had  dropped  from  12  percent  to  6  percent  in  the 
twentieth  century.  Two  very  small  minorities,  the  Lapps  (or  Sami) 
and  the  Gypsies,  remained  apart  from  the  majority.  They  still 


73 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


suffered  from  some  discrimination  and  from  poor  living  standards, 
but  legislation  and  more  open  attitudes  on  the  part  of  the  majority 
were  improving  their  lot. 

Finland  was  virtually  free  of  the  religious  divisions  that  bedeviled 
many  other  societies.  One  of  the  two  state  churches,  the  Lutheran 
Church  of  Finland,  had  nearly  90  percent  of  the  population  as  mem- 
bers. Religious  freedom  was  guaranteed  by  law,  and  Finns  also 
belonged  to  sever2il  dozen  other  churches.  Because  Finnish  society 
had  become  increasingly  secularized,  differences  of  opinion  about 
moral  issues  caused  less  friction  than  they  had  in  the  past. 

Finns  maintained  their  traditional  respect  for  education.  Edu- 
cation had  gradually  become  more  accessible,  and  an  ever  greater 
number  of  Finns  were  studying  at  all  levels.  The  old  system,  which 
excluded  many,  had  been  replaced  by  one  that  attempted  to  meet 
individual  schooling  needs  and  to  keep  open  as  many  options  for 
further  training  as  possible;  no  one  went  without  education  for  lack 
of  money. 

Finland,  like  its  Nordic  neighbors,  had  created  a  system  of  pub- 
lic welfare  measures  that  was  among  the  most  advanced  in  the 
world.  Through  a  steady  progression  of  legislation,  Finns  came  to 
be  protected  from  many  of  life's  vicissitudes.  Coverage  was  virtu- 
ally universal,  and  it  was  seen  as  a  right  rather  than  as  charity. 
Income  security  measures  guaranteed  Finns  a  livelihood  despite 
age,  illness,  or  unemployment.  The  state  also  provided  many  ser- 
vices that  assisted  Finns  in  their  daily  life,  such  as  child  care,  family 
counseling,  and  health  care.  Although  some  social  problems  per- 
sisted, the  quality  of  life  for  Finns  overall  had  steadily  and,  in  many 
instances,  dramatically  improved.  Better  medical  care  meant  that 
Finns  enjoyed  improved  health,  while  subsidized  housing  brought 
them  better  and  roomier  shelter.  Efforts  also  were  being  made  to 
protect  the  natural  environment. 

Geography 

Finland  is  the  northernmost  country  on  the  European  continent. 
Although  other  countries  have  points  extending  farther  north,  vir- 
tually all  of  Finland  is  north  of  60  degrees  north  latitude;  nearly 
a  quarter  of  the  land  area  and  fully  one-third  of  the  latitudinal  extent 
of  the  country  lie  north  of  the  Arctic  Circle  (see  fig.  1). 

Size,  External  Boundaries,  and  Geology 

In  area,  Finland  has  304,623  square  kilometers  of  land  and 
33,522  square  kilometers  of  inland  water,  a  total  of  338, 145  square 
kilometers.  It  shares  borders  on  the  west  with  Sweden  for  540  kilo- 
meters, on  the  north  with  Norway  for  720  kilometers,  and  on  the 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


east  with  the  Soviet  Union  for  1 ,268  kilometers.  There  are  approx- 
imately 1,107  kilometers  of  coastline  on  the  Gulf  of  Finland  (south), 
the  Baltic  Sea  (southwest),  and  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia  (west).  The 
rugged  coastline  is  deeply  indented  with  bays  and  inlets.  The  off- 
shore region  is  studded  with  islands. 

The  most  predominant  influences  on  Finland's  geography  were 
the  continental  glaciers  that  scoured  and  gouged  the  country's  sur- 
face. When  the  glaciers  receded  about  10,000  years  ago,  they  left 
behind  them  moraines,  drumlins,  and  eskers.  Other  indications 
of  their  presence  are  the  thousands  of  lakes  they  helped  to  form 
in  the  southern  part  of  the  country.  The  force  of  the  moving  ice 
sheets  gouged  the  lake  beds,  and  meltwaters  helped  to  fill  them. 
The  recession  of  the  glaciers  is  so  recent  (in  geologic  terms)  that 
modern-day  drainage  patterns  are  immature  and  poorly  established. 
The  direction  of  glacial  advance  and  recession  set  the  alignment 
of  the  lakes  and  streams  in  a  general  northeast  to  southwest  linea- 
tion.  The  two  Salpausselka  Ridges,  which  run  parallel  to  each  other 
about  twenty-five  kilometers  apart,  are  the  terminal  moraines.  At 
their  greatest  height  they  reach  an  elevation  of  about  200  meters, 
the  highest  point  in  southern  Finland. 

Landform  Regions 

Many  countries  of  the  world  can  be  divided  into  distinct  geo- 
graphic regions,  in  each  of  which  some  physical  characteristic  is 
dominant,  almost  to  the  exclusion  of  others.  In  Finland,  the  same 
physical  characteristics  are  common  to  each  of  the  four  geographic 
regions  into  which  the  country  is  divided  (see  fig.  8).  Regional  differ- 
ences in  Finland  lie,  therefore,  in  subtle  combinations  of  physical 
qualities.  In  archipelago  Finland,  rock  and  water  are  dominant. 
Coastal  Finland  consists  of  broad  clay  plains  where  agriculture  plays 
a  leading  role.  The  interior  lake  district  supports  extensive  forests. 
Upland  Finland  is  covered  by  Arctic  scrub.  Nonetheless,  each  of 
these  regions  contains  elements  of  the  others.  For  instance,  patches 
of  agriculture  extend  far  northward  along  some  rivers  in  Lapland, 
and  in  southern  Finland  a  substantial  bogland,  the  Suomenselka, 
is  sometimes  referred  to  as  Satakunta  Lapland  because  it  has  the 
character  of  Arctic  tundra. 

Archipelago  Finland,  consisting  of  thousands  of  islands  and  sker- 
ries, extends  from  the  southwestern  coast  out  into  the  Baltic  Sea. 
It  includes  the  strategically  significant  Aland  Islands,  positioned 
at  the  entrance  to  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia.  After  World  War  I,  both 
Finland  and  Sweden  laid  claim  to  the  islands,  which  are  culturally 
more  Swedish  than  Finnish.  For  strategic  reasons,  however,  the 
League  of  Nations  awarded  the  Aland  Islands  to  Finland  in  1921 


75 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


(see  Finnish  Security  Policy  Between  the  Wars,  ch.  1).  A  principal 
reason  for  this  decision  was  that,  during  the  winter,  the  islands 
are  physically  linked  to  Finland  by  the  frozen  waters  of  the  sea  and 
are  hence  essential  for  the  country's  defense.  This  myriad  of  forest- 
covered  and  bare  bedrock  islands  was  formed  and  continues  to  be 
formed  by  the  process  of  uplift  following  the  last  glaciation. 

The  rest  of  the  country  is  also  still  emerging  from  the  sea.  The 
weight  of  the  continental  glaciers  depressed  the  land  over  which 
they  moved,  and  even  now,  a  hundred  centuries  after  their  reces- 
sion, Finland  is  rising  up  from  this  great  load  through  the  process 
of  isostatic  rebound.  In  the  south  and  the  southwest,  this  process 
is  occurring  slowly,  at  a  rate  of  twenty-five  to  thirty  centimeters 
a  century.  Farther  north  in  the  Ostrobothnia  area,  uplift  is  more 
rapid,  amounting  to  eighty  or  ninety  centimeters  a  century.  The 
process  also  means  that  Finland  is  growing  about  seven  square 
kilometers  yearly  as  land  emerges  from  the  sea. 

Coastal  Finland  consists  of  broad  clay  plains  extending  from  the 
coast  inland,  for  no  more  than  100  kilometers.  These  plains  slope 
southward  from  the  morainic  Salpausselka  Ridges  in  southern  Fin- 
land. Along  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia  coast,  the  plains  slope  southwest 
from  upland  areas.  The  land  of  coastal  Finlcind  is  used  for  agricul- 
ture and  dairy  farming. 

The  interior  lake  district  is  the  largest  geographic  region,  and 
it  is  perhaps  what  most  foreigners  think  of  when  they  imagine  Fin- 
land. The  district  is  bounded  to  the  south  by  the  Salpausselka 
Ridges.  Behind  the  ridges  extend  networks  of  thousands  of  lakes 
separated  by  hilly  forested  countryside.  This  landscape  continues 
to  the  east  and  extends  into  the  Soviet  Union.  As  a  consequence, 
there  is  no  natur2d  border  between  the  two  countries.  Because  no 
set  definition  of  what  constitutes  a  lake  and  no  procedures  for  count- 
ing the  number  of  lakes  exist,  it  has  been  impossible  to  ascertain 
exacdy  how  msiny  lakes  the  region  has.  There  are,  however,  at  least 
55,000  lakes  that  are  200  or  more  meters  wide.  The  largest  is  Lake 
Saimaa,  which,  with  a  surface  area  of  more  than  4,400  square 
kilometers,  is  the  fifth  largest  l2ike  in  Europe.  The  deepest  lake  has 
a  depth  of  only  100  meters;  the  depth  of  the  average  lake  is  7  meters. 
Because  they  are  shallow,  these  many  lakes  contain  only  slightly 
more  water  than  Finland's  annual  rainfall.  The  hilly,  forest-covered 
landscape  of  the  lake  plateau  is  dominated  by  drumlins  and  by  long 
sinuous  eskers,  both  glacial  remnants. 

Upland  Finland  extends  beyond  the  Arctic  Circle.  The  extreme 
north  of  this  region  is  known  as  Lapland.  The  highest  points  in 
upland  Finland  reach  an  elevation  of  about  1,000  meters,  and  they 
are  found  in  the  Kilpisjarvi  area  of  the  Scandinavian  Keel  Ridge. 


76 


mi     n  .  •  ..«*■   -    J  Tx-  T7....:  * 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


In  the  southern  upland  region  the  hills  are  undulating,  while  in 
the  north  they  are  rugged.  Much  of  upland  Finland  is  not  moun- 
tainous, but  consists  of  bogs. 

Finland's  longest  and  most  impressive  rivers  are  in  the  north. 
The  Kemijoki  has  the  largest  network  of  tributaries.  Fairther  south 
the  Oulujoki  drains  the  beginning  of  the  north  country.  Most  of 
the  streams  flow  to  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia,  but  there  is  a  broad  stretch 
of  land  in  the  north  and  northeast  that  is  drained  by  rivers  flowing 
north  across  Norway  and  northeast  across  the  Soviet  Union  to  the 
Arctic  Ocean. 

Climate 

Latitude  is  the  principal  influence  on  Finlcind's  climate.  Because 
of  Finland's  northern  location,  winter  is  the  longest  season.  On 
the  average,  winter  lasts  105  to  120  days  in  the  archipelago  and 
180  to  220  days  in  Lapland.  This  means  that  southern  portions 
of  the  country  are  snow-covered  about  three  months  of  the  year 
and  the  northern,  about  seven  months.  The  long  winter  causes 
about  half  of  the  annual  500  to  600  millimeters  of  precipitation  in 
the  north  to  fall  as  snow.  Precipitation  in  the  south  amounts  to 
about  600  to  700  millimeters  annuadly.  Like  that  of  the  north,  it 
occurs  cdl  through  the  year,  though  not  so  much  of  it  is  snow. 

The  Atlcintic  Ocean  to  the  west  and  the  Eurasian  continent  to 
the  east  interact  to  modify  the  climate  of  the  country.  The  warm 
waters  of  the  Gulf  Stream  and  the  North  Atlantic  Drift  Current, 
which  warm  Norway  and  Sweden,  also  warm  Finland.  Westerly 
winds  bring  the  warm  air  currents  into  the  Baltic  areas  and  to  the 
country's  shores,  moderating  winter  temperatures,  especially  in  the 
south.  These  winds,  because  of  clouds  associated  with  weather  sys- 
tems accompainying  the  westerlies,  also  decrease  the  amount  of  sun- 
shine received  during  the  summer.  By  contrast,  the  continental  high 
pressure  system  situated  over  the  Eurasian  continent  counteracts 
the  maritime  influences,  causing  severe  winters  and  occasionally 
high  temperatures  in  the  summer. 

Demography 

Finland  had  250,000  inhabitants  in  the  sixteenth  century.  As  a 
result  of  wars,  the  population  did  not  reach  the  1  million  mark  until 
about  1815  (see  table  7,  Apjjendix  A).  Mortality  remained  high  even 
in  the  nineteenth  century.  The  famine  of  1867  to  1868,  for  exam- 
ple, killed  5  to  10  percent  of  the  population,  and  it  was  not  until 
1880  that  there  were  2  million  Finns.  In  the  last  part  of  the  century, 
improved  living  conditions  began  to  lower  the  death  rate,  but  a  simul- 
taneous  fall   in   the   birth   rate   and   increased  emigration 


79 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


AGE-GROUPS 


400 


POPULATION  IN  THOUSANDS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nordic  Council  of  Ministers,  Nordic  Statistical 
Secretariat,  Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics,  1987,  Copenhagen,  1988,  22. 

Figure  9.  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1986 

retarded  growth.  As  a  result,  shortly  before  World  War  I  the  coun- 
try's inhabitants  still  numbered  only  3  million.  A  short-lived  "baby 
boom"  in  the  first  five  years  after  the  upheav2ils  of  World  War 
II  allowed  the  population  to  reach  4  million  by  1950.  Since  then 
the  country's  population  growth  has  been  among  the  lowest  in  the 
world.  Low  birth  rates  coupled  with  heavy  emigration  resulted  in 
a  population  of  only  4,937,000  in  1987.  The  annual  birth  rate  since 
the  early  1970s  has  averaged  fewer  than  14  births  per  1,000  per- 
sons, a  rate  that  has  caused  demographers  to  estimate  that  Fin- 
land's population  would  peak  at  just  under  5  million  by  about  the 
turn  of  the  century,  after  which  it  would  decline  (see  fig.  9). 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1980s,  Finland's  average  population  den- 
sity, fourteen  persons  per  square  kilometer,  was  the  second  lowest 
in  Western  Europe,  just  behind  Norway's  thirteen  and  ahead  of 
Sweden's  seventeen.  Actual  population  density  varied  widely, 
however  (see  fig.  10).  The  province  of  Lapland,  covering  29.3  per- 
cent of  the  nation's  area  but  containing  only  about  4  percent  of 
its  population,  had  a  population  density  of  about  two  persons  per 
square  kilometer,  making  it  one  of  the  earth's  emptiest  regions. 
Uusimaa,  Finland's  second  smallest  province,  which  contains 
the  capital  city,  Helsinki,  accounted  for  only  3.1  percent  of  the 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


national  territory;  however,  it  was  home  for  more  than  20  percent 
of  the  country's  inhabitants,  who  hved  together  at  a  density  of  1 19 
per  square  kilometer,  a  figure  identical  to  that  of  Denmark.  The 
provinces  of  Kymi,  Hame,  and  Turku  ja  Pori  in  south-central  Fin- 
land, which  had  a  mix  of  rural  and  urban  areas  with  economies 
based  on  both  agriculture  and  industry,  were  perhaps  more  truly 
representative  of  Finnish  conditions.  During  the  1980s,  their  popu- 
lation densities  ranged  from  thirty  to  forty  persons  per  square 
kilometer. 

External  Migration 

Demographic  movement  in  Finland  did  not  end  with  the  appear- 
ance of  immigrants  from  Sweden  in  the  Middle  Ages.  Finns  who 
left  to  work  in  Swedish  mines  in  the  sixteenth  century  began  a 
national  tradition,  which  continued  up  through  the  1970s,  of  settling 
in  their  neighboring  country.  During  the  period  of  tsarist  rule,  some 
100,000  Finns  went  to  Russia,  mainly  to  the  St.  Petersburg  area. 
Emigration  on  a  large  scale  began  in  the  second  half  of  the 
nineteenth  century  when  Finns,  along  with  millions  of  other 
Europeans,  set  out  for  the  United  States  and  Canada.  By  1980  Fin- 
land had  lost  an  estimated  400,000  of  its  citizens  to  these  two 
countries. 

A  great  number  of  Finns  emigrated  to  Sweden  after  World  War 
II,  drawn  by  that  country's  prosperity  and  proximity.  Emigration 
began  slowly,  but,  during  the  1960s  and  the  second  half  of  the  1970s, 
tens  of  thousands  left  each  year  for  their  western  neighbor.  The 
peak  emigration  year  was  1970,  when  41,000  Finns  settled  in 
Sweden,  which  caused  Finland's  population  actually  to  fall  that 
year.  Because  many  of  the  migrants  later  returned  to  Finland, 
definite  figures  cannot  be  calculated,  but  all  told,  an  estimated 
250,000  to  300,000  Finns  became  permanent  residents  of  Sweden 
in  the  postwar  period.  The  overall  youthfulness  of  these  emigrants 
meant  that  the  quality  of  the  work  force  available  to  Finnish 
employers  was  diminished  and  that  the  national  birth  rate  slowed. 
At  one  point,  every  eighth  Finnish  child  was  born  in  Sweden.  Fin- 
land's Swedish-speaking  minority  was  hard  hit  by  this  westward 
migration;  its  numbers  dropped  from  350,000  to  about  300,000 
between  1950  and  1980.  By  the  1980s,  a  strong  Finnish  economy 
had  brought  an  end  to  large-scale  migration  to  Sweden.  In  fact, 
the  overall  population  flow  was  reversed  because  each  year  several 
thousand  more  Finns  returned  from  Sweden  than  left  for  it. 

Internal  Migration 

However  significant  the  long-term  effects  of  external  migration 


81 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  Statistisches  Bundesamt, 
Ldnderbericht  Finnland,  1986,  Wiesbaden,  1986,  8. 


Figure  10.  Population  Density  by  Province,  1981 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


on  Finnish  society  may  have  been,  migration  within  the  country 
had  a  greater  impact — especially  the  migration  which  took  place 
between  the  end  of  World  War  II  and  the  mid-1970s,  when  half 
the  population  moved  from  one  part  of  the  country  to  another. 
Before  World  War  II,  internal  migration  had  first  been  a  centuries- 
long  process  of  forming  settlements  ever  farther  to  the  north.  Later, 
however,  beginning  in  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century 
with  the  coming  of  Finland's  tardy  industrialization,  there  was  a 
slow  movement  from  rural  regions  toward  areas  in  the  south  where 
employment  could  be  found. 

Postwar  internal  migration  began  with  the  resettlement  within 
Finland  of  virtuadly  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  parts  of  Karelia  ced- 
ed to  the  Soviet  Union  (see  The  Continuation  War,  ch.  1).  Some- 
what more  than  400,000  persons,  more  than  10  percent  of  the 
nation's  population,  found  new  homes  elsewhere  in  Finland,  often 
in  the  less  settled  regions  of  the  east  and  the  north.  In  these  regions, 
new  land,  which  they  cleared  for  farming,  was  provided  for  the 
refugees;  in  more  populated  areas,  property  was  requisitioned.  The 
sudden  influx  of  these  settlers  was  successfully  dealt  with  in  just 
a  few  years.  One  of  the  effects  of  rural  resetdement  was  an  increase 
in  the  number  of  farms  during  the  postwar  years,  a  unique  occur- 
rence for  industrialized  nations  of  this  period  (see  Agriculture, 
ch.  3). 

It  was,  however,  the  postwar  economic  transformation  that 
caused  an  even  larger  movement  of  people  within  Finland,  a  move- 
ment known  to  Finns  as  the  Great  Migration  (see  Economic 
Development,  ch.  3).  It  was  a  massive  population  shift  from  rural 
areas,  especially  those  of  eastern  and  northeastern  Finland,  to  the 
urban,  industriadized  south  (see  table  8,  Appendix  A).  People  left 
rural  regions  because  the  mechanization  of  agriculture  and  the  fore- 
stry industry  had  eliminated  jobs.  The  displaced  work  force  went 
to  areas  where  employment  in  the  expanding  industrial  and  ser- 
vice sectors  was  available.  This  movement  began  in  the  1950s,  but 
it  was  most  intense  during  the  1960s  and  the  first  half  of  the  1970s, 
assuming  proportions  that  in  relative  terms  were  unprecedented 
for  a  country  outside  the  Third  World.  The  Great  Migration  left 
behind  rural  areas  of  abandoned  farms  with  reduced  and  aging 
populations,  and  it  allowed  the  creation  of  a  densely  populated 
postindustrial  society  in  the  country's  south. 

The  extent  of  the  demographic  shift  to  the  south  can  be  shown 
by  the  following  figures.  Between  1951  and  1975,  the  population 
registered  2in  increase  of  655,000.  During  this  period,  the  sm2Jl 
province  of  Uusimaa  increased  its  population  by  412,000,  grow- 
ing from  670,000  to  1,092,00;  three-quarters  of  this  growth  was 


83 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


caused  by  settlers  from  other  provinces.  The  population  increase 
experienced  by  four  other  southern  provinces,  the  Aland  Islands, 
Turku  ja  Pori,  Hame,  and  Kymi,  taken  together  with  that  of 
Uusimaa  amounted  to  97  percent  of  the  country's  total  popula- 
tion increase  for  these  years.  The  population  increase  of  the  cen- 
tral and  the  northern  provinces  accounted  for  the  remaining  3 
percent.  Provinces  that  experienced  an  actual  population  loss  during 
these  years  were  in  the  east  and  the  northeast — Pohjois-Karjala, 
Mikkeli,  and  Kuopio. 

One  way  of  visualizing  the  shift  to  the  south  would  be  to  draw 
a  line,  bowing  slightly  to  the  north,  between  the  port  cities  of  Kotka 
on  the  Gulf  of  Finland  and  Kaskinen  on  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia.  In 
1975  the  territory  to  the  south  of  this  line  would  have  contained 
half  of  Finland's  population.  Ten  years  earlier,  such  a  line,  drawn 
farther  to  the  north  to  mark  off  perhaps  20  percent  more  area,  would 
have  encompassed  half  the  population.  One  hundred  years  earlier, 
half  the  population  would  have  been  distributed  throughout  more 
than  twice  as  much  territory.  Another  indication  of  the  extent  to 
which  Finns  were  located  in  the  south  was  that  by  1980,  approxi- 
mately 90  percent  of  them  lived  in  the  southernmost  41  percent 
of  Finland. 

Urbanization 

The  Great  Migration  was  also  a  process  of  urbanization. 
Mechanization  of  agriculture  and  forestry  meant  fewer  jobs  in  these 
sectors  that  had  traditionally  taken  the  bulk  of  Finland's  work  force. 
Redundant  workers  found  new  employment  in  the  economically 
burgeoning  south.  Just  before  World  War  II,  three  out  of  four  Finns 
lived  in  rural  areas;  it  was  not  until  1969  that  more  than  half  the 
population  had  come  to  live  in  urban  communities.  The  trend  con- 
tinued, and  by  the  early  1980s  some  60  percent  of  Finns  lived  in 
urban  areas.  The  largest  urban  settlement  in  Finland  was  greater 
Helsinki,  which,  with  a  population  of  about  950,000  in  the  1980s, 
contained  one-fifth  of  the  country's  total  population.  Two  of  Hel- 
sinki's suburbs,  Espoo  (established  in  1963)  and  Vantaa  (dating 
only  from  1972),  were,  by  a  wide  margin,  the  country's  fourth  and 
fifth  largest  cities.  The  greater  urban  areas  of  the  cities  of  Tam- 
pere and  Turku  each  contained  about  250,000  inhabitants. 

Social  Structure 

The  economic  and  political  transformations  that  Finland  has 
experienced  since  the  last  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century  have 
radically  altered  the  country's  social  structure.  In  the  first  phase 
of  this  transformation,  industrialization  expanded  the  economy. 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


created  hitherto  unknown  occupational  groups,  and  forced  the  old 
bureaucratic  and  clerical  elite  to  share  power  and  prestige  with  a 
new  entrepreneurial  class.  The  political  transformation  established 
a  democratic  republic  in  which  parties  representing  workers  and 
farmers  successfully  contended  for  the  highest  public  offices.  After 
World  War  II,  the  two  processes  of  transformation  quickened.  In 
one  generation,  the  manner  in  which  Finns  lived  and  earned  their 
livelihood  changed  in  an  unprecedented  way.  An  essentially  rural 
society  moved  to  the  city;  farmers,  for  centuries  the  most  numer- 
ous class,  ceded  this  position  to  white-collar  workers;  and  prosperity 
replaced  poverty. 

Occupational  and  Wage  Structure 

Finland's  export-dependent  economy  continuously  adapted  to 
the  world  market;  in  doing  so,  it  changed  Finnish  society  as  well. 
The  prolonged  worldwide  boom,  beginning  in  the  late  1940s  and 
lasting  until  the  first  oil  crisis  in  1973,  was  a  chadlenge  that  Fin- 
land met  and  from  which  it  emerged  with  a  highly  sophisticated 
and  diversified  economy,  including  a  new  occupational  structure 
(see  Economic  Development,  ch.  3).  Some  sectors  kept  a  fairly  con- 
stant share  of  the  work  force.  Transportation  and  construction,  for 
example,  each  accounted  for  between  7  and  8  percent  in  both  1950 
and  1985,  and  manufacturing's  share  rose  only  from  22  to  24  per- 
cent; however,  both  the  commercial  and  the  service  sectors  more 
than  doubled  their  share  of  the  work  force,  accounting,  respectively, 
for  21  and  28  percent  in  1985.  The  greatest  change  was  the  decline 
of  the  economically  active  population  employed  in  agriculture  and 
forestry,  from  approximately  50  percent  in  1950  to  10  percent  in 
1985.  The  exodus  from  farms  and  forests  provided  the  manpower 
needed  for  the  growth  of  other  sectors. 

Studies  of  Finnish  mobility  patterns  since  World  War  II  have 
confirmed  the  significance  of  this  exodus.  Sociologists  have  found 
that  people  with  a  farming  background  were  present  in  other 
occupations  to  a  considerably  greater  extent  in  Finland  than  in  other 
West  European  countries.  Finnish  data  for  the  early  1980s  showed 
that  30  to  40  percent  of  those  in  occupations  not  requiring  much 
education  were  the  children  of  farmers,  as  were  about  25  percent 
in  upper-level  occupations,  a  rate  two  to  three  times  that  of  France 
and  noticeably  higher  than  that  even  of  neighboring  Sweden.  Fin- 
land also  differed  from  the  other  Nordic  countries  in  that  the  gener- 
ational transition  from  the  rural  occupations  to  white-collar  positions 
was  more  likely  to  be  direct,  bypassing  manual  occupations. 

The  most  important  factor  determining  social  mobility  in  Fin- 
land was  education.  Children  who  attained  a  higher  level  of 


85 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

education  than  their  parents  were  often  able  to  rise  in  the  hierar- 
chy of  occupations.  A  triphng  or  quadrupling  in  any  one  genera- 
tion of  the  numbers  receiving  schooling  beyond  the  required 
minimum  reflected  the  needs  of  a  developing  economy  for  skilled 
employees.  Obtaining  advanced  training  or  education  was  easier 
for  some  than  for  others,  however,  and  the  children  of  white-collar 
employees  still  were  more  likely  to  become  white-collar  employees 
themselves  than  were  the  children  of  farmers  and  blue-collar 
workers.  In  addition,  children  of  white-collar  professionals  were 
more  likely  than  not  to  remain  in  that  class. 

The  economic  transformation  also  altered  income  structure.  A 
noticeable  shift  was  the  reduction  in  wage  differentials.  The 
increased  wealth  produced  by  an  advanced  economy  was  distributed 
to  wage  earners  via  the  system  of  broad  income  agreements  that 
evolved  in  the  postwar  era  (see  Industrial  Relations,  ch.  3). 
Organized  sectors  of  the  economy  received  wage  hikes  even  greater 
than  the  economy's  growth  rate.  As  a  result,  blue-collar  workers' 
income  came,  in  time,  to  match  more  closely  the  pay  of  lower-level 
white-collar  employees,  and  the  income  of  the  upper  middle  class 
declined  in  relation  to  that  of  other  groups. 

The  wage  structure  of  the  1 980s  contrasted  sharply  with  that  of 
1900.  At  the  turn  of  the  century,  the  pay  of  a  senior  government 
official  was  many  times  greater  than  that  of  an  industrial  worker, 
and  households  headed  by  professionals  customarily  employed  ser- 
vants. By  the  1980s,  the  household  of  a  university-educated  profes- 
sional had  an  average  income  not  quite  twice  that  of  a  manual 
worker  in  the  farming  or  forestry  sector.  According  to  the  Central 
Statistical  Office  of  Finland,  if  the  average  household  income  is 
measured  at  100  in  1984,  that  of  a  professional  household  is  169; 
of  a  salaried  employee,  118;  of  a  construction  worker,  112;  and 
of  an  ordinary  service  sector  employee,  104.  Among  households 
with  incomes  below  the  average  are  those  of  farm  and  forestry 
workers,  with  an  average  income  measured  at  92;  those  receiving 
unemployment  benefits  at  73;  and  those  retired  at  44. 

Despite  a  more  even  distribution  of  income,  Finnish  government 
statistics  showed  that  a  considerable  portion  of  taxable  income  was 
earned  by  small  segments  of  the  population.  In  1985  the  top  10 
percent  of  taxpayers  earned  26.9  percent  of  taxable  income,  and 
the  top  20  percent  earned  43.7  percent  of -income.  The  bottom  10 
percent  of  taxpayers  earned  only  0.5  percent  of  taxable  income; 
the  bottom  20  percent,  only  3  percent.  These  figures  had  remained 
stable  since  at  least  the  late  1970s,  and  they  were  unlikely  to  change 
greatly  by  the  early  1990s,  as  Finnish  taxes  remained  relatively 
modest  compared  with  those  of  other  West  European  countries. 


86 


Saimaa,  a  system  of  interconnected  lakes  covering  1, 000  square 

kilometers  in  eastern  Finland 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

Although  Finland's  income  distribution  was  the  most  unequal  of 
the  five  Nordic  countries,  it  did  not  differ  greatly  from  its  neigh- 
bors. Sweden,  for  example,  had  the  most  equal  distribution,  with 
the  top  20  percent  earning  38.1  percent  of  taxable  income,  and 
the  bottom  20  percent,  5.3  percent. 

Class  Structure 

For  centuries  Finnish  society  consisted  of  the  nobility,  clergy, 
burghers,  and  peasants.  The  nineteenth  century  saw  the  eclipse 
of  the  nobility  and  clergy  and,  with  the  coming  of  industrializa- 
tion, the  formation  of  socially  significant  entrepreneurial  and  work- 
ing classes.  The  civil  war  and  subsequent  periods  of  repression 
helped  to  create  hostile  relations  among  labor,  land,  and  capital, 
and  in  the  interwar  period  Finland  was  a  country  marked  by  deep 
social  fissures  along  class  and  language  lines.  The  common  national 
goals  of  World  War  II  closed  some  wounds,  but  it  was  not  until 
the  coming  of  consensus  politics  in  the  second  half  of  the  1960s 
that  constructive  relations  among  competing  social  groups  became 
possible.  An  unprecedented  prosperity,  widely  distributed  through 
incomes  agreements  and  a  Nordic-style  welfare  system,  served  to 
integrate  all  groups  into  society;  a  more  open  education  system, 
coupled  with  the  internationally  pervasive  consumer  culture  of  the 


87 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


postwar  era,  planed  away  many  differences  of  taste  and  conduct 
related  to  class. 

Finnish  scholars  have  examined  the  composition  of  the  new  con- 
sensus society,  and  their  varied  findings  have  prompted  serious  dis- 
cussions of  its  class  makeup.  Among  many  issues  debated  have  been 
the  definition  of  the  working  class,  the  extent  to  which  it  has  been 
affected  by  a  process  of  "embourgeoisement,"  and  the  constitu- 
tion of  the  ruling  elite,  if  any,  that  has  steered  the  country.  One 
noted  Finnish  sociologist,  Matti  Alestalo,  familiar  with  academic 
studies  in  these  areas,  divided  Finnish  society  of  the  1980s  into  six 
classes:  farmers,  working  class,  petite  bourgeoisie,  lower  middle 
class,  upper  middle  class,  and  upper  class. 

For  Alestalo,  the  two  most  striking  changes  in  Finland's  class 
structure  after  World  War  II  were  the  steep  drop  in  the  size  of  the 
farming  population  and  the  great  expansion  of  the  lower  middle 
class.  During  the  early  1950s,  the  number  of  those  working  in 
agriculture  actually  increased,  but  thereafter  it  fell  steadily.  By  1980 
the  sector  was  about  one-quarter  of  its  size  thirty  years  earlier,  and 
it  consisted  almost  entirely  of  farm  owners  and  their  families  because 
the  number  of  hired  agricultural  workers  had  dwindled.  The  farmers 
who  remained  enjoyed  a  higher  standard  of  living  because  it  was 
the  smaller  and  poorer  farms  that  had  been  abandoned.  Another 
reason  for  farmers'  new  prosperity  was  that  they  were  a  highly 
organized  and  homogeneous  class  that  successfully  lobbied  for 
government  policies  that  benefited  them.  Farmers  differed  from 
other  classes  in  that  they  were,  to  a  far  higher  degree,  self-recruiting; 
about  80  percent  of  farmers  were  the  offspring  of  farmers.  The 
rationalization  of  agriculture  made  small  businessmen  out  of  most 
farmers,  but  farmers  differed  from  other  owners  of  small  enter- 
prises in  that  they  passed  on  to  their  children  something  that  was 
more  a  way  of  life  than  a  business. 

Alestalo  classified  as  a  worker  anyone  employed  for  primarily 
manual  work,  and  he  included  in  this  class  some  white-collar  wage 
earners  whom  others  judged  to  belong  to  the  lower  middle  class. 
According  to  his  calculations,  the  working  class  had  accounted  for 
about  50  percent  of  the  economically  active  work  force  during  the 
entire  postwar  period,  but  the  sectors  in  which  it  was  employed 
had  changed.  The  share  of  workers  employed  in  agriculture  and 
forestry  had  dropped  from  22  to  4  percent  by  1980,  while  the  share 
active  in  manufacturing  and  services  had  increased  to  60  and  to 
26  percent,  respectively.  Workers'  living  standards  had  improved 
greatly — more  than  those  of  other  groups — since  the  war,  but  even 
in  the  1980s  workers  still  had  poorer  health  and  less  job  security 
than  other  classes.  They  were  also  housed  more  poorly,  and  one 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  their  primary  concerns  was  to  acquire  homes  of  their  own.  By 
the  1980s,  Finnish  workers  had  become  much  more  integrated  into 
society  than  they  had  been  in  the  immediate  postwar  period,  but 
they  still  identified  strongly  with  their  labor  unions  and  with  the 
parties  that  had  traditionally  represented  them.  Although  workers 
no  longer  lived  in  the  isolated  enclaves  of  the  interwar  period, 
Alestalo  believed  it  would  be  premature  to  say  that  they  had  be- 
come part  of  the  middle  class. 

Finland's  petite  bourgeoisie  of  shopowners  and  small 
entrepreneurs  had  never  been  an  economically  important  class.  It 
had  declined  slowly  in  size,  beginning  in  the  1950s,  until  by  1980 
it  accounted  for  only  5  percent  of  the  work  force.  Many  small  shops 
operated  by  this  class  had  closed  because  of  the  growth  of  large 
retail  firms.  Many  small  grocery  stores,  for  example,  had  gone  out 
of  business.  There  was  little  intergenerational  stability  in  this  class 
because  many  of  its  members  came  from  outside  it. 

Alestado  divided  the  large  group  engaged  in  nonmanu2il,  white- 
collar  occupations  into  a  lower  middle  class  and  an  upper  middle 
class.  Educational  level,  recruitment  criteria,  complexity  of  tasks, 
level  of  income,  and  commitment  to  the  organization  were  among 
the  factors  that  determined  to  which  of  these  two  classes  a  person 
belonged.  Both  classes  had  grown  since  the  war,  doubling  in  size 
between  1960  and  1980,  but  the  lower  middle  class  share  of  the 
total  work  force  in  1980  amounted  to  24  percent,  making  it  the 
second  largest  class  in  Finland  and  dwarfing  the  8  percent  of  the 
upper  middle  class.  Both  levels  of  the  middle  class  had  many  mem- 
bers born  in  other  classes,  but  the  lower  middle  class  had  more, 
one-third  having  a  farming  background  and  another  third  coming 
from  the  working  class.  Women  dominated  in  the  lower  middle 
class,  constituting  60  percent  of  its  membership  in  1960  and  70 
percent  in  1980,  an  indication  of  their  heavy  employment  in  lower- 
level  service- sector  positions  such  as  those  of  office  workers,  elemen- 
tary school  teachers,  and  nurses. 

According  to  Alestalo,  the  country's  upper  class  accounted  for 
about  1  percent  of  the  economically  active  population;  it  was  made 
up  of  the  owners,  directors,  or  managers  of  large  industrisd  con- 
cerns, banks,  and  commercial  institutions  in  the  private  sector,  as 
well  as  the  heads  of  large  state  companies  and  agencies,  and  senior 
civil  servants  in  the  public  sector.  Some  members  of  the  country's 
upper  class  inherited  their  wealth  or  position.  In  the  postwar  era, 
however,  most  appeared  to  be  hired  professionals.  Much  of  the 
membership  of  the  upper  class  came  from  the  upper  reaches  of  Fin- 
nish society,  but  several  factors  resulted  in  its  having  a  more  het- 
erogeneous composition  than  earlier — the  coming  to  power  of 


89 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


socialist  parties  with  leaderships  from  various  classes,  the  common 
practice  of  politicizing  senior  civil  service  appointments,  and  the 
greater  importance  of  state  institutions. 

Family  Life 

The  profound  demographic  and  economic  changes  that  occurred 
in  Finland  after  World  War  II  affected  the  Finnish  family.  Fami- 
lies became  smaller,  dropping  from  an  average  of  3.6  persons  in 
1950  to  an  average  of  2.7  by  1975.  Family  composition  did  not 
change  much  in  that  quarter  of  a  century,  however,  and  in  1975 
the  percentage  of  families  that  consisted  of  a  man  and  a  woman 
was  24.4;  of  a  couple  and  children,  61 .9;  of  a  woman  with  offspring, 
11.8;  of  a  man  and  offspring,  1.9.  These  percentages  are  not 
markedly  different  from  those  of  1950.  Chzmge  was  seen  in  the  num- 
ber of  children  per  fgimily,  which  fell  from  an  average  of  2.24  in 
1950  to  an  average  of  1 .7  in  the  mid-1980s,  and  large  families  were 
rare.  Only  2  percent  of  families  had  four  or  more  children,  while 
51  percent  had  one  child;  38  percent,  two  children;  and  9  percent, 
three  children.  The  number  of  Finns  under  the  age  of  18  dropped 
from  1.5  million  in  1960  to  1.2  million  in  1980. 

Marriage 

Attitudes  toward  marriage  have  changed  substantially  since 
World  War  II.  Most  obvious  was  the  declining  marriage  rate,  which 
dropped  from  8.5  marriages  per  1,000  Finns  in  1950  to  5.8  in  1984, 
a  decline  great  enough  to  mean  a  drop  also  in  absolute  numbers. 
In  1950  there  were  34,000  marriages,  while  in  1984  only  28,500 
were  registered,  despite  a  growth  in  population  of  800,000.  An 
explanation  for  the  decline  was  that  there  was  an  unprecedented 
number  of  unmarried  couples.  Since  the  late  1960s,  the  practice 
of  cohabitation  had  become  increasingly  common,  so  much  so  that 
by  the  late  1970s  most  marriages  in  urban  areas  grew  out  of  what 
Finns  called  "open  unions."  In  the  1980s,  it  was  estimated  that 
about  8  percent  of  couples  who  lived  together,  approximately 
200,000  people,  did  so  without  benefit  of  marriage.  Partners  of  such 
unions  usually  married  because  of  the  arrival  of  offspring  or  the 
acquisition  of  property.  A  result  of  the  frequency  of  cohabitation 
was  that  marriages  were  postponed,  and  the  average  age  for  mar- 
riage, which  had  been  falling,  began  to  rise  in  the  1970s.  By  1982 
the  average  marriage  age  was  24.8  years  for  women  and  26.8  years 
for  men,  severzJ  years  higher  for  both  sexes  than  had  been  true 
a  decade  earlier. 

The  overwhelming  majority  of  Finns  did  marry,  however.  About 
90  percent  of  the  women  had  been  married  by  the  age  of  forty, 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  spinsterhood  was  rare.  A  shortage  of  women  in  rural  regions, 
however,  meant  that  some  farmers  were  forced  into  bachelorhood. 

While  the  number  of  marriages  was  declining,  divorce  became 
more  common,  increasing  250  percent  between  1950  and  1980. 
In  1952  there  were  3,500  divorces.  The  1960s  saw  a  steady  increase 
in  this  rate,  which  averaged  about  5,000  divorces  a  year.  A  high 
of  10,191  was  reached  in  1979;  afterwards  the  divorce  rate  stabi- 
lized at  about  9,500  per  year  during  the  first  half  of  the  1980s. 

A  number  of  factors  caused  the  increased  frequency  of  divorce. 
One  was  that  an  increasingly  secularized  society  viewed  marriage, 
more  often  than  before,  as  an  arrangement  that  could  be  ended 
if  it  did  not  satisfy  its  partners.  Another  reason  was  that  a  gradu- 
ally expanding  welfare  system  could  manage  an  ever  greater  por- 
tion of  the  family's  traditional  tasks,  and  it  made  couples  less 
dependent  on  the  institution  of  marriage.  Government  provisions 
for  parental  leave,  child  allowances,  child  care  programs,  and  much 
improved  health  and  pension  plans  meant  that  the  family  was  no 
longer  essential  for  the  care  of  children  and  aged  relatives.  A  fur- 
ther cause  for  weakened  family  and  marital  ties  was  seen  in  the 
unsettling  effects  of  the  Great  Migration  and  in  the  economic  trans- 
formation Finland  experienced  during  the  1960s  and  the  1970s. 
The  rupture  of  established  social  patterns  brought  uncertainty  and 
an  increased  potential  for  conflict  into  personal  relationships. 

Status  of  Women 

After  examining  the  position  of  women  around  the  world,  the 
Washington-based  Population  Crisis  Committee  reported  in  1988 
that  Finland,  slightly  behind  top-ranked  Sweden  and  just  ahead 
of  the  United  States,  was  one  of  the  very  best  places  in  which  a 
woman  could  live.  The  group  reached  this  conclusion  after  examin- 
ing the  health,  educational,  economic,  and  legal  conditions  that 
affect  women's  lives. 

When  compared  with  women  of  other  nations,  Finnish  women, 
who  accounted  for  just  over  50  percent  of  the  population  in  the 
mid-1980s,  did  have  a  privileged  place  (see  fig.  10).  They  were 
the  first  in  Europe  to  gain  the  franchise,  and  by  the  1980s  they 
routinely  constituted  about  one-third  of  the  membership  of  the 
Eduskunta  (parliament)  and  held  several  ministerial  posts.  In  the 
1980s,  about  75  percent  of  adult  women  worked  outside  the  home; 
they  made  up  about  48  percent  of  the  work  force.  Finnish  women 
were  as  well  educated  as  their  male  counterparts,  and  the  number 
of  women  studying  at  the  university  level  was  slightly  higher  than 
the  number  of  men.  In  addition  to  an  expanding  welfare  system, 
which  since  World  War  II  had  come  to  provide  them  with 


91 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


substantial  assistance  in  the  area  of  child-bearing  and  child-rearing, 
women  had  made  notable  legislative  gains  that  brought  them  closer 
to  full  equality  with  men. 

In  1972  the  Council  for  Equality  was  established  to  advise  law- 
makers on  methods  for  realizing  full  legal  equality  for  women.  In 
1983  legislation  arranged  that  both  parents  were  to  have  equal  rights 
for  custody  of  their  children.  A  year  later,  women  were  granted 
equal  rights  in  the  establishment  of  their  children's  nationality. 
Henceforth  any  child  born  of  a  Finnish  woman  would  have  Fin- 
nish citizenship.  After  a  very  heated  national  debate,  legislation 
was  passed  in  1985  that  gave  women  an  equal  right  to  decide  what 
surname  or  surnames  they  and  their  children  would  use.  These 
advances  were  capped  by  a  law  that  went  into  effect  in  early  1987 
forbidding  any  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  sex  and  providing 
protection  against  it.  Once  these  laws  were  passed,  Finnish  authori- 
ties signed  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of 
All  Forms  of  Discrimination  Against  Women,  in  1986. 

In  a  number  of  areas,  however,  the  country's  small  feminist 
movement  maintained  that  the  circumstances  in  which  Finnish 
women  lived  needed  to  be  improved.  Most  striking  was  the  dis- 
parity in  wages.  Although  women  made  up  just  under  half  the  work 
force  and  had  a  tradition  of  working  outside  the  home,  they  earned 
only  about  two-thirds  of  the  wages  paid  to  men.  Occupations  in 
which  women  predominated,  such  as  those  of  retail  and  office  per- 
sonnel, were  poorly  paid  in  contrast  to  those  in  which  men  con- 
stituted the  majority.  Despite  the  sexes'  equal  educational 
attainments,  and  despite  a  society  where  sexual  differentiation 
played  a  smaller  role  than  it  did  in  many  other  countries,  occupa- 
tional segregation  in  Finland  was  marked.  In  few  of  the  twenty 
most  common  occupations  were  the  two  sexes  equally  represented. 
Only  in  occupations  relating  to  agriculture,  forestry,  and  school 
teaching  was  a  rough  parity  approached,  and  as  few  as  6  percent 
of  Finns  worked  in  jobs  where  40  to  60  percent  of  workers  were 
of  the  opposite  sex.  Studies  also  found  that  equal  educational  lev- 
els did  not — in  any  category  of  training — prevent  women's  wages 
from  lagging  behind  those  paid  to  men.  Women  tended  to  occupy 
lower  positions,  while  males  were  more  often  supervisors  or 
managers.  This  was  the  case  everywhere,  whether  in  schools  or 
universities,  in  business,  in  the  civil  service,  or  in  politics  at  both 
the  local  level  and  the  national  level. 

In  addition  to  their  occupying  secondary  position  in  the  work- 
place, women  had  longer  workdays  because  they  performed  a  great- 
er share  of  household  tasks  than  did  men.  On  the  average,  their 
workweek  outside  the  home  was  several  hours  shorter  than 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


men's  because  a  greater  portion  of  them  were  employed  only  part- 
time  or  worked  in  the  service  sector  where  hours  were  shorter  than 
they  were  in  manufacturing.  Studies  have  found,  however,  that 
women  spent  about  twice  as  much  time  on  housework  as  men — 
about  three  hours  and  forty  minutes  a  day,  compared  with  one  hour 
and  fifty  minutes  for  men.  Men  did  twice  as  many  household  repairs 
and  about  an  equal  amount  of  shopping,  but  they  devoted  only 
one-third  to  one-fourth  as  much  time  to  cleaning,  cooking,  and 
caring  for  children.  Given  that  the  bulk  of  family  chores  fell  to 
women,  and  that  they  were  five  times  more  likely  than  men  to  head 
a  single-parent  family,  the  shortcomings  of  Finland's  child  day- 
care system  affected  women  more  than  men. 

The  Equality  Law  that  went  into  effect  in  1987  committed  the 
country  to  achieving  fiiU  equality  for  women.  In  the  late  1980s, 
there  was  a  timetable  listing  specific  goals  to  be  achieved  during 
the  remainder  of  the  twentieth  century.  The  emphasis  was  to  be 
equality  for  everyone,  rather  than  protection  for  women.  Efforts 
were  undertaken  not  only  to  place  women  in  occupations  domi- 
nated by  males,  but  also  to  bring  males  into  fields  traditionally 
believed  to  belong  to  the  women's  sphere,  such  as  child  care  and 
elementary  school  teaching.  Another  aim  was  for  women  to  occupy 
a  more  equal  share  of  decision-making  positions. 

Minority  Groups 

Compared  with  many  countries,  Finland  was  quite  homoge- 
neous. There  were  few  foreigners,  and  the  ones  who  were  present 
were  usually  white-collar  employees  required  for  commercial  rea- 
sons. Very  few  persons  of  other  races  were  seen  on  the  nation's 
streets,  and  only  a  handful  of  refugees  were  granted  asylum.  Finns 
were  open  about  their  desire  to  avoid  admitting  workers  from  dis- 
tant southern  countries  and  hence  to  avoid  the  kinds  of  situations 
that  had  led  to  minor  racial  incidents  in  neighboring  Sweden  and 
Denmark,  let  alone  those  that  had  caused  the  serious  social  problems 
experienced  by  Britain. 

Finland  did  have  one  significant  minority,  the  Swedish- speaking 
Finns,  who  had  been  in  the  country  for  more  than  1 ,000  years  and 
who,  for  centuries,  had  been  the  source  of  its  ruling  elite. 
Nineteenth-century  nationalism,  some  fierce  struggles  in  the  twen- 
tieth century,  and  changing  demographic  patterns  had  deprived 
this  group  of  its  traditional  dominance,  but  law  and  compromise 
had  allowed  the  Swedish- speaking  Finns  a  secure  and  peaceful  place 
within  Finnish  society.  Two  smaller  minorities  had  not  been  suc- 
cessfully assimilated.  One,  the  Lapps,  was  descended  from  the  origi- 
nal inhabitants  of  the  land;  the  other,  the  Gypsies,  was  a  much 


93 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

later  addition.  The  former  lived  mostly  in  the  high  north;  the  lat- 
ter were  found  throughout  the  country.  Neither  group  was  a  threat 
to  Finnish  society,  but  both  occasionally  posed  problems  for  social 
workers,  and  their  treatment  at  the  hands  of  their  fellow  Finns  was 
sometimes  cause  for  regret.  Also  present  in  Finland  were  tiny  Jewish 
and  Muslim  communities,  both  of  which  had  roots  going  back  into 
the  nineteenth  century. 

Lapps 

The  oldest  known  inhabitants  of  Finland  are  the  Lapps,  who  were 
already  setded  there  when  the  Finns  arrived  in  the  southern  part 
of  the  country  about  2,000  years  ago.  The  Lapps  were  distantly 
related  to  the  Finns,  and  both  spoke  a  non-Indo-European  language 
belonging  to  the  Finno-Ugric  family  of  languages.  Once  present 
throughout  the  country,  the  Lapps  gradually  moved  northward 
under  the  pressure  of  the  advancing  Finns.  As  they  were  a  nomadic 
people  in  a  sparsely  settled  land,  the  Lapps  were  always  able  to 
find  new  and  open  territory  in  which  to  follow  their  traditional 
activities  of  hunting,  fishing,  and  slash-and-burn  agriculture.  By 
the  sixteenth  century,  most  Lapps  lived  in  the  northern  half  of  the 
country,  and  it  was  during  this  period  that  they  converted  to  Chris- 
tianity. By  the  nineteenth  century,  most  of  them  lived  in  the  parts 
of  Lapland  that  were  still  their  home  in  the  1980s.  The  last  major 
shift  in  Lapp  settlement  was  the  migration  westward  of  600  Skolt 
Lapps  from  the  Petsamo  region  after  it  was  ceded  to  the  Soviet 
Union  in  1944.  A  reminder  of  their  eastern  origin  was  their 
Orthodox  faith;  the  remaining  85  percent  of  Finland's  Lapps  were 
Lutheran. 

About  90  percent  of  Finland's  4,400  Lapps  lived  in  the  munici- 
palities of  Enontekio,  Inari,  cind  Utsjoki,  and  in  the  reindeer 
herding-area  of  Sodankyla.  According  to  Finnish  regulations,  any- 
one who  spoke  the  Lapp  language,  Sami,  or  who  had  a  relative 
who  was  a  Lapp,  was  registered  as  a  Lapp  in  census  records.  Fin- 
nish Lapps  spoke  three  Sami  dialects,  but  by  the  late  1980s  perhaps 
only  a  minority  actually  had  Sami  as  their  first  language.  Lapp 
children  had  the  right  to  instruction  in  Sami,  but  there  were  few 
qualified  instructors  or  textbooks  available.  One  reason  for  the  scar- 
city of  written  material  in  Sami  is  that  the  three  dialects  spoken 
in  Finland  made  agreement  about  a  common  orthography  difficult. 
Perhaps  these  shortcomings  explained  why  a  1979  study  found  the 
educational  level  of  Lapps  to  be  considerably  lower  than  that  of 
other  Finns. 

Few  Finnish  Lapps  actually  led  the  traditional  nomadic  life  pic- 
tured in  school  geography  texts  and  in  travel  brochures.  Although 


94 


Lapps  in  traditional  dress 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


many  Lapps  living  in  rural  regions  of  Lapland  earned  some  of  their 
livelihood  from  reindeer  herding,  it  was  estimated  that  Lapps  owned 
no  more  than  one-third  of  Finland's  200,000  reindeer.  Only  5  per- 
cent of  Finnish  Lapps  had  the  herds  of  250  to  300  reindeer  needed 
to  live  entirely  from  this  kind  of  work.  Most  Lapps  worked  at  more 
routine  activities,  including  farming,  construction,  and  service 
industries  such  as  tourism.  Often  a  variety  of  jobs  and  sources  of 
income  supported  Lapp  families,  which  were,  on  the  average,  twice 
the  size  of  a  typical  Finnish  family.  Lapps  adso  were  aided  by  old- 
age  pensions  and  by  government  welfare,  which  provided  a  greater 
share  of  their  income  than  it  did  for  Finns  as  a  whole. 

There  have  been  many  efforts  over  the  years  by  Finnish  authori- 
ties to  safeguard  the  Lapps'  culture  and  way  of  life  and  to  ease 
their  entry  into  modern  society.  Officials  created  bodies  that  dealt 
with  the  Lapp  minority,  or  formed  committees  that  studied  their 
situation.  An  early  body  was  the  Society  for  the  Promotion  of  Lapp 
Culture,  formed  in  1932.  In  1960  the  government  created  the 
Advisory  Commission  on  Lapp  Affairs.  The  Lapps  themselves 
formed  the  Samii  Litto  in  1945  and  the  Johti  Sabmelazzat,  a  more 
aggressive  organization,  in  1968.  In  1973  the  government  arranged 
for  elections  every  four  years  to  a  twenty-member  Sami  Parlamenta 
that  was  to  advise  authorities.  On  the  international  level,  there  was 
the  Nordic  Sami  Council  of  1956,  and  there  has  been  a  regularly 
occurring  regional  conference  since  then  that  represented — in 


95 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

addition  to  Finland's  Lapps — Norway's  20,000  Lapps,  Sweden's 
10,000  Lapps,  and  the  1,000  to  2,000  Lapps  who  remained  in  the 
Kola  Peninsula  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

Swedish-speaking  Finns 

The  largest  minority  group  in  Finland  was  the  Swedish- speaking 
Finns,  who  numbered  about  250,000  in  the  late  1980s.  The  first 
evidence  of  their  presence  in  the  country,  dating  from  the  eighth 
century,  comes  from  the  Aland  Islands.  After  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, colonization  from  Sweden  began  in  earnest,  and  within  two 
centuries  there  was  a  band  of  territory  occupied  by  Swedish  speakers 
that  ran  along  the  western  and  the  southern  coasts  and  had  an  aver- 
age width  of  about  thirty  kilometers  (see  fig.  11).  Cycles  of  Fin- 
nish and  Swedish  assimilation  have  changed  the  linguistic  makeup 
of  this  strip  of  land.  In  Ostrobothnia,  for  example,  the  area  of  Swed- 
ish settlement  extended  inland  as  much  as  sixty  kilometers  and  still 
existed  in  the  late  1980s,  while  other  areas  had  eventually  reverted 
to  being  once  again  overwhelmingly  inhabited  by  Finnish  speak- 
ers. By  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  areas  of  Swedish 
settlement  had  shrunk  to  basically  what  they  were  in  the  second 
half  of  the  1980s:  Ostrobothnia,  the  Aland  Islands,  and  a  strip  along 
the  southern  coast  that  included  the  capital  (see  fig.  12).  The  set- 
tlers from  Sweden  gradually  lost  contact  with  their  relatives  in  the 
old  country  and  came  to  regard  Finland  as  their  country.  They 
were  distinguished  from  other  Finns  only  by  their  language,  Swed- 
ish, which  they  retained  even  after  hundreds  of  years  of  separa- 
tion from  Sweden. 

Although  most  Swedish-speaking  Finns  worked  as  farmers  and 
fishermen,  for  centuries  they  also  made  up  the  country's  govern- 
ing elite.  Even  after  the  country  was  ceded  to  Russia  in  1809,  the 
aristocracy  and  nearly  all  those  active  in  commerce,  in  the  courts, 
and  in  education  had  Swedish  as  their  native  language.  The  coun- 
try's bureaucracy  did  virtually  all  its  written  work  in  Swedish.  Fin- 
nish speakers  who  desired  to  enter  these  groups  learned  Swedish. 
Only  the  clergy  used  Finnish  on  a  regular  basis,  for  they  dealt  with 
the  bulk  of  the  population  who,  for  the  most  part,  knew  only  that 
language.  There  were  no  campaigns  to  force  Swedish  on  Finnish 
speakers,  however,  and  the  problem  of  language  as  a  social  issue 
did  not  exist  during  the  period  of  Swedish  rule. 

Swedish  retained  its  primacy  until  the  second  half  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  when,  as  a  result  of  budding  nationalism,  it 
was  gradually  displaced  by  Finnish.  A  good  many  of  the  strongest 
advocates  of  Finnish  nationalism  were  Swedish  speakers  who  used 
their  own  language  in  the  patriotic  pamphlets  and  journals  of  the 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


time  because  few  of  them  could  write  Finnish.  By  the  end  of  the 
century,  the  nationaUst  movement  had  been  successful  in  foster- 
ing the  birth  of  Finnish  as  a  written  language  and  in  bringing  about 
the  formation  of  an  educated  Finnish- speaking  elite.  Numbering 
350,000  and  constituting  13  percent  of  the  country's  population 
in  1900,  Swedish- speaking  Finns  were  still  disproportionately  in- 
fluential and  wealthy,  but  they  were  no  longer  dominant  in  the 
country  of  their  birth. 

Independent  Finland's  new  Constitution  protected  the  Swedish- 
speaking  minority,  in  that  it  made  both  Finnish  and  Swedish  na- 
tional languages  of  equal  official  status,  stipulating  that  a  citizen  be 
able  to  use  either  language  in  courts  and  have  government  docu- 
ments relating  to  him  or  her  issued  in  his  or  her  language,  and  that 
the  cultural  and  economic  needs  of  both  language  groups  be  treated 
equally.  The  Language  Act  of  1922  covered  many  of  the  practical 
questions  engendered  by  these  constitutional  rights.  Despite  these 
legal  provisions,  however,  there  were  still  currents  of  Finnish  opin- 
ion that  wished  to  see  a  curtailment  of  the  Swedish- speaking  minori- 
ty's  right  to  protect  its  cultural  identity.  Attempts  at  Finnicization 
failed,  however,  and  the  advent  of  the  nationzd  crisis  of  World  War 
II  submerged  disagreements  about  the  language  issue.  Since  the 
war,  there  have  been  occasional  squabbles  about  practical  meas- 
ures for  realizing  the  minority's  economic  and  cultural  rights,  but 
none  about  the  inherent  value  of  the  policy  of  equality. 

The  Language  Act  of  1922,  and  its  subsequent  revisions, 
arranged  for  the  realization  of  the  rights  of  the  Swedish- speaking 
minority.  The  basic  units  for  protecting  and  furthering  the  exer- 
cise of  these  rights  were  the  self-governing  municipalities.  After 
each  ten-year  census,  Finland's  nearly  500  municipalities  were  clas- 
sified as  either  unilingual  or  bilingual  with  a  majority  language. 
In  the  1980s,  there  were  461  municipsdities:  396  Finnish- speaking; 
21  bilingual  with  a  Finnish- speaking  majority;  24  Swedish-speaking; 
20  bilingual  with  Swedish  as  the  majority  language.  A  municipal- 
ity was  bilingual  if  the  number  of  speakers  of  the  minority  language 
exceeded  either  3,000  or  8  percent  of  its  population.  If  a  munici- 
pality had  been  classified  as  bilingual,  it  could  not  revert  to  unilin- 
gual status  until  the  minority  population  declined  to  less  than  6 
percent. 

Language  classification  had  important  consequences  for  the  in- 
habitants of  a  municipality,  for  it  determined  which  language  was 
to  be  used  for  government  business.  In  bilingual  municipalities,  all 
documents  affecting  the  general  public — tax  forms,  for  example — 
had  to  be  published  in  both  languages.  In  addition,  national 
and  local  government  officials  had  to  be  bilingual — a  requirement 


97 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Erik  Allardt  and  Karl  Johan  Miemois,  Roots 
Both  in  the  Center  and  the  Periphery:  The  Swedish  Speaking  Population  in  Finland,  Hel- 
sinki, 1979,  7. 


Figure  11.  Areas  Inhabited  by  Swedish-speaking  Finns  up  to  1910 


not  cJways  met,  however — and  public  notices  and  road  signs  had 
to  be  in  both  languages.  In  unilingual  communities  this  was  not 
the  case.  Documents  relating  directly  to  an  individual  case  could 
be  translated,  but  otherwise  official  business  was  transacted  in  the 
municipality's  language.  If  someone  were  involved  in  a  court  case, 
however,  and  did  not  know  the  prevailing  language,  translation 
would  be  provided. 

The  method  used  to  classify  municipalities  had  to  be  regarded 
as  successful  because,  although  the  overwhelming  majority  of 
municipalities  were  unilingual  Finnish- speaking  communities,  only 
4  percent  of  the  Swedish- speaking  minority  lived  in  municipalities 
where  their  language  was  not  used.  Finnish- speaking  Finns  fared 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


even  better,  for  less  than  1  percent  of  them  Uved  where  their  lan- 
guage was  not  used  officially.  Some  of  the  Swedish  speakers  who 
lived  apart  from  their  fellows  did  so  voluntarily  because  they  had 
management  positions  at  factories  and  plants  in  regions  that  were 
nearly  entirely  Finnish-speaking  areas.  Because  they  were  educated, 
these  managers  knew  Finnish.  They  were  also  representatives  of 
the  tradition  oi ''brukssvenskar^^  (literadly,  "factory  Swedes"),  and 
were  sometimes  the  only  Swedish  speakers  their  brother  Finns  knew. 

On  the  national  level,  sJl  laws  and  decrees  had  to  be  issued  in 
both  languages,  and  the  Swedish- speaking  minority  had  the  right 
to  have  Swedish-language  programs  on  the  state  radio  and  televi- 
sion networks.  Swedish-language  schools  had  to  be  established 
wherever  there  was  a  sufficient  number  of  pupils.  There  were  several 
Swedish-language  institutions  of  higher  learning,  and  a  specified 
number  of  the  professorial  chairs  at  the  University  of  Helsinki  was 
reserved  for  Swedish  speakers,  as  was  one  brigade  in  the  army. 
A  drawback  for  the  Swedish-speaking  minority,  though,  was  that 
because  of  its  small  size,  the  nationzd  government  could  not,  for 
practical  reasons,  publish  in  Swedish  all  parliamentary  delibera- 
tions, committee  reports,  and  officiad  documents. 

The  Swedish- speaking  minority  was  well  represented  in  various 
sectors  of  society.  The  moderate  Swedish  People's  Party  (Svenska 
Folkpartiet — SFP)  got  the  votes  of  most  Swedish  speakers,  with 
the  exception  of  workers  who  more  often  than  not  voted  for  sociadist 
parties.  The  SFP  polled  enough  support  to  hold  a  number  of  seats 
in  the  Eduskunta  that  usuadly  matched  closely  the  percentage  of 
Swedish  speakers  in  the  country's  totad  population.  It  very  often 
had  ministers  in  the  cabinet  as  well  (see  The  Swedish  People's  Party, 
ch.  4).  An  unofficiad  special  body,  the  Swedish  People's  Assembly 
(Svenska  Finlands  Folkting),  representing  adl  members  of  the 
minority,  functioned  in  an  advisory  capacity  to  regular  governing 
institutions.  Most  national  organizations,  whether  economic,  aca- 
demic, social,  or  religious,  had  branches  or  separate  equivalents 
for  Swedish  speakers.  Because  of  its  long  commercial  and  mari- 
time traditions,  the  Swedish- speaking  minority  was  disproportion- 
ately strong  in  some  sectors  of  the  financial  community  and  the 
shipping  industry.  In  general,  however,  with  the  exception  of  the 
upper  middle  class,  where  there  were  more  Swedish  speakers  than 
usu2d,  the  class  distribution  of  the  minority  matched  fairly  closely 
that  of  the  larger  community. 

The  size  of  the  Swedish-speaking  minority  increased  fairly  steadily 
until  1940,  when  it  numbered  354,000  persons,  or  9.6  percent  of 
the  country's  total  population.  Since  then  it  has  declined,  drop- 
ping to  296,000,  or  6.1  percent  of  the  population,  in  1987.  In 


99 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based   on    information   from    Erik   Allardt   and   Karl  Johan  Miemois, 
The  Swedish-Speaking  Minority  in  Finland,  Helsinki,  1981,  56. 


Figure  12.  Language  Areas  of  Finland,  1976 

relative  terms,  however,  it  has  been  in  decline  for  centuries,  drop- 
ping from  17.5  percent  in  1610,  and  it  was  expected  to  go  below 
6  percent  by  the  end  of  the  twentieth  century.  The  decline  stemmed 
from  a  variety  of  factors:  a  slighdy  lower  birth  rate  than  the  rest 
of  the  population  during  some  periods;  a  greater  rate  of  emigra- 
tion to  the  United  States  before  World  War  I;  a  large  loss  of  some 
50,000  persons  who  settled  permsinently  in  Sweden  in  the  decades 
after  World  War  II;  and  frequent  marriages  with  Finnish  speakers. 

By  the  1980s,  more  than  half  the  marriages  of  Swedish-speaking 
Finns  were  to  persons  from  outside  their  language  group.  In  urban 
areas,  especially  in  Helsinki,  the  rate  was  over  60  percent.  This 
was  not  surprising  because  the  members  of  the  minority  group  were 
usually  bUingual,  and  there  were  no  legal  constraints  (although  there 
were  sometimes  social  and  familial  constraints)  against  marrying 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


those  speaking  the  majority  language.  The  bihnguaUsm  of  the 
minority  was  caused  by  compulsory  schooling  in  the  majority  lan- 
guage from  the  third  school  year  on,  and  from  living  in  a  society 
where,  with  the  exception  of  some  rural  areas,  speaking  only  Swed- 
ish was  a  serious  handicap  because  the  majority  group  usually  had 
a  poor  knowledge  of  Swedish,  despite  compulsory  study  of  it  for 
several  years.  Swedish- speaking  Finns  were  easily  able  then  to  cross 
from  one  language  group  to  another.  However  highly  they  valued 
their  mother  tongue  and  their  group's  cultural  identity,  they  were 
not  bound  by  them  when  selecting  friends  or  spouses.  A  survey 
of  the  late  1970s  found,  for  example,  that  Swedish- speaking  natives 
of  Helsinki  felt  they  had  more  in  common  with  natives  of  their  city 
who  did  not  speak  their  language  than  they  did  with  Swedish  speak- 
ers from  other  regions.  More  often  than  not,  Swedish-speaking 
Finns  married  outside  their  group.  These  marriages  posed  a  danger 
to  their  language  community  in  that  the  resulting  offspring  were 
usually  registered  as  speakers  of  the  majority  language,  even  when 
they  were  truly  bilingual.  Thus  the  Finnish  practice  of  counting 
speakers  of  a  language  by  the  principle  of  personality,  that  is  on 
an  individual  basis,  rather  than  by  the  principle  of  territoriality, 
as  was  done  only  for  the  Aland  Islands,  was  leading  to  a  decline 
in  the  size  of  the  Swedish- speaking  minority. 

Gypsies 

Gypsies  have  been  present  in  Finland  since  the  second  half  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  With  their  unusual  dress,  unique  customs, 
and  specialized  trades  for  earning  their  livelihood,  Gypsies  have 
stood  out,  and  their  stay  in  the  country  has  not  been  an  easy  one. 
They  have  suffered  periodic  harassment  from  the  hands  of  both 
private  citizens  and  public  officials,  and  the  last  of  the  special  laws 
directed  against  them  was  repealed  only  in  1883.  Even  in  the  second 
half  of  the  1980s,  Finland's  5,000  to  6,000  Gypsies  remained  a  dis- 
tinct group,  separated  from  the  general  population  both  by  their 
own  choice  and  by  the  fears  and  the  prejudices  many  Finns  felt 
toward  them. 

Finnish  Gypsies,  like  Gypsies  elsewhere,  chose  to  live  apart  from 
the  dominant  societal  groups.  A  Gypsy's  loyalty  was  to  his  or  her 
family  and  to  Gypsies  in  general.  Marriages  with  non-Gypsies  were 
uncommon,  and  the  Gypsies'  own  language,  spoken  as  a  first  lan- 
guage only  by  a  few  in  the  1980s,  was  used  to  keep  outsiders  away. 
An  individual's  place  within  Gypsy  society  was  largely  determined 
by  age  and  by  sex,  old, males  having  authority.  A  highly  developed 
system  of  values  arid  a  code  of  conduct  governed  a  Gypsy's 
behavior,  and  when  Gypsy  sanctions,  violent  or  not,  were  imposed, 


101 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

for  example  via  "blood  feuds,"  they  had  far  more  meaning  than 
any  legal  or  social  Scinctions  of  Finnish  society. 

Unlike  the  Lapps,  who  lived  concentrated  in  a  single  region,  the 
Gypsies  lived  throughout  Finland.  While  most  Lapps  wore  ordi- 
nary clothing  in  their  everyday  life,  Gypsies  could  be  identified 
by  their  dress;  the  men  generally  wore  high  boots  and  the  women 
almost  always  dressed  in  very  full,  long  velvet  skirts.  Like  most 
Lapps,  however,  Gypsies  also  had  largely  abandoned  a  nomadic 
way  of  life  and  had  permanent  residences.  Gypsy  men  had  for  cen- 
turies worked  as  horse  traders,  but  they  had  adapted  themselves 
to  postwar  Finland  by  being  active  as  horse  breeders  and  as  deal- 
ers in  cars  and  scrap  metal.  Women  continued  their  traditional 
trades  of  fortune  telling  and  handicrafts. 

Since  the  1960s,  Finnish  authorities  have  undertaken  measures 
to  improve  the  Gypsies'  standard  of  living.  Generous  state  finan- 
cial arrangements  have  improved  their  housing.  Their  low 
educational  level  (an  estimated  20  percent  of  adult  Gypsies  could 
not  read)  was  raised,  in  part,  through  more  vocational  training. 
A  permanent  Advisory  Commission  on  Gypsy  Affairs  was  set  up 
in  1968,  and  in  1970  racial  discrimination  was  outlawed  through 
an  addition  to  the  penal  code.  The  law  punished  blatant  acts  such 
as  barring  Gypsies  from  restaurzmts  or  shops  or  subjecting  them 
to  unusual  surveillance  by  shopkeepers  or  the  police. 

Jewish  and  Muslim  Communities 

In  the  1980s,  there  were  about  1,300  Jews  in  Finland,  800  of 
whom  lived  in  Helsinki  and  most  of  the  remainder  of  whom  lived 
in  Turku.  During  the  period  of  Swedish  rule,  Jews  had  been  for- 
bidden to  live  in  Finland.  Once  the  country  became  part  of  the 
Russian  Empire,  however,  Jewish  veterans  of  the  tsarist  army  had 
the  right  to  setde  anywhere  they  wished  within  the  empire.  Although 
constrained  by  law  to  follow  certain  occupations,  mainly  those  con- 
nected with  the  sale  of  clothes,  the  Jewish  community  in  Finland 
was  able  to  prosper,  and  in  1890  it  numbered  about  1,000.  Fin- 
nish independence  brought  complete  civil  rights,  and  during  the 
interwar  period  there  were  some  2,000  Jews  in  Finland,  most  of 
them  living  in  urban  areas  in  the  south.  During  World  War  II, 
Finnish  authorities  refused  to  deliver  Jews  to  the  Nazis,  and  the 
country's  Jewish  community  survived  the  war  virtually  intact.  By 
the  1980s,  assimilation  and  emigration  had  significantly  reduced 
the  size  of  the  community,  and  it  was  only  with  some  difficulty 
that  it  maintained  synagogues,  schools,  libraries,  and  other  perti- 
nent institutions. 

The  Muslim  community  in  Finland  was  even  smaller  than  the 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Jewish  community;  it  numbered  only  about  900,  most  of  whom 
were  found  in  Helsinki.  The  Muslims  first  came  to  Finland  from 
Turkey  in  the  mid-nineteenth  century  and  have  remained  there 
ever  since,  active  in  commerce.  Like  their  Jewish  counterparts,  Fin- 
nish Muslims,  because  of  their  small  number,  have  had  difficulty 
maintaining  all  the  institutions  needed  by  a  social  group. 

Religion 

The  right  to  worship  freely  is  guaranteed  by  Article  8  and  Arti- 
cle 9  of  the  Constitution  of  1919  and  by  the  Freedom  of  Religion 
Act  that  went  into  effect  in  1923.  In  the  1980s,  there  were  about 
thirty  registered  religions  in  the  country,  all  of  which  met  the  mini- 
mum requirement  of  having  at  least  thirty  followers.  Despite  this 
wealth  of  religions,  the  country's  religious  life  was  dominated  by 
one  of  its  two  state  churches,  the  Lutheran  Church  of  Finland,  which 
had  nearly  90  percent  of  the  population  as  members.  The  other 
state  church,  the  Orthodox  Church  of  Finland,  had  a  membership 
of  about  1  percent  of  the  population.  The  remaining  churches  or 
religions  had  2  percent  of  the  people  in  their  congregations.  Fol- 
lowers of  the  sm2iller  churches  included  Jews,  Muslims,  Roman 
Catholics,  a  variety  of  Protestants,  Mormons,  Christian  Scientists, 
and  converts  to  eastern  religions.  Seven  percent  belonged  to  no 
church. 

Role  of  Religion 

Religion  was  a  part  of  public  life  in  a  variety  of  ways.  The  celebra- 
tion of  the  gaining  of  Finnish  independence  on  December  6  had 
a  religious  component,  as  did  the  annual  opening  of  the  Eduskunta. 
There  were  three  religious  holidays  when  public  entertainments 
were  not  permitted.  The  state  churches  kept  the  official  records 
of  their  members'  civil  status,  and  the  vast  majority  of  marriages 
were  performed  in  the  state  churches  and  had  the  same  leg2il  sta- 
tus as  a  civil  ceremony.  Church  members  paid  a  church  tax  that 
was  collected  and  paid  to  the  churches  by  state  authorities.  Per- 
sons wishing  to  leave  one  of  the  state  churches  had  to  do  so  for- 
madly,  and  records  of  this  decision  were  maintained.  Religious 
instruction  was  a  regular  part  of  the  schools'  curricula,  and  chil- 
dren wishing  to  be  excused  from  it  had  to  request  the  right  to  take 
a  substitute  course.  The  armed  forces  had  chaplains,  the  highest 
of  whom  was  a  bishop,  and  their  services  were,  in  practice,  usual- 
ly obligatory  for  recruits.  Chaplains'  salaries  were  paid  by  the  state, 
as  were  those  of  the  higher  clergy  of  the  two  state  churches.  The 
oath  generally  used  in  court  had  a  religious  content,  though  non- 
believers  had  the  right  to  one  that  made  no  reference  to  a  deity 


103 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

and  instead  was  only  a  solemn  affirmation  of  the  truth  of  their  tes- 
timony. Although  it  was  rarely  invoked,  there  was  a  Finnish  law 
against  blasphemy.  Numerous  religious  programs  and  services  were 
broadcast  on  the  country's  state  radio  and  television  networks. 

Much  of  this  religious  influence  was  based  in  Finland's  past, 
however,  and  did  not  correspond  with  attitudes  of  most  Finns, 
because  by  the  1980s  the  country  had  become  a  highly  secularized 
society.  Polls  revealed,  for  example,  that  about  70  percent  of  the 
population  believed  in  God,  a  good  deal  fewer  than  the  90  percent 
who  belonged  to  the  state  churches.  About  40  percent  of  the  popu- 
lation believed  that  the  best  place  to  find  God  was  in  the  Bible, 
but  only  about  10  percent  read  it  at  least  once  a  week,  striking 
figures  for  a  Protestant  country.  Frequent  church  attendance  was 
unusual.  Surveys  conducted  during  the  1980s  found  that  perhaps 
as  few  as  4  percent  went  to  church  every  Sunday,  about  12  per- 
cent went  once  a  month,  and  43  percent  went  at  least  once  during 
the  course  of  a  year. 

These  figures  did  not  give  a  complete  picture  of  Finnish  reli- 
gious life,  however.  Finland's  pietist  traditions  meant  that  there 
was  much  private  prayer  as  opposed  to  public  worship;  about  one- 
third  of  Finns  under  the  age  of  thirty-five  and  more  than  half  of 
those  above  this  age  reportedly  prayed  every  week.  In  addition, 
the  Lutheran  Church  touched  the  lives  of  many  Finns  through  its 
considerable  social  work  and  counseling,  although  these  activities 
were  often  not  strictly  religious  in  nature. 

The  role  the  state  churches  played  in  life's  key  moments  made 
them,  for  reasons  of  tradition,  important  to  most  Finns,  even  to 
those  who  were  not  religious.  More  Finns  were  baptized,  married, 
and  buried  with  church  rites  than  were  members  of  the  churches. 
A  very  important  rite  of  passage  for  adolescents  was  confirmation, 
which  signified  a  coming  of  age  even  for  those  from  freethinking 
families.  For  this  reason,  more  than  90  percent  of  15-year-olds  were 
confirmed,  despite  the  several  weeks  of  lessons  this  entailed. 
Although  church  membership  was  a  routine  affair  for  many,  polls 
conducted  in  the  1970s  and  the  1980s  consistently  found  that  only 
about  10  percent  of  those  interviewed  had  given  any  serious  thought 
to  leaving  a  state  church,  even  though  freedom  from  the  church 
tax  would  mean  a  small  financial  gain.  For  many  Finns,  leaving 
their  church  would  be  too  great  a  break  with  family  and  commu- 
nity traditions.  In  addition,  some  of  the  values  that  churches  had 
traditionally  stood  for  had  been  internalized.  Observers  noted,  for 
example,  that  although  Finland  had  undoubtedly  become  more 
secularized  since  World  War  II,  particularly  in  the  urban  areas, 
the  traditional  Lutheran  virtues  of  hard  work  and  self-discipline, 


104 


Helsinki  Cathedral 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

inculcated  over  the  centuries,  were  still  evident  in  the  lives  of  most 
Finns. 

Lutheran  Church  of  Finland 

Religious  life  in  Finland  since  the  Protesrant  Reformation  has 
been  dominated  by  the  Lutheran  Church  of  Finland.  For  most  of 
this  period,  almost  all  Finns  belonged  to  it.  In  the  late  1980s,  about 
90  percent  of  the  population  were  members,  and  an  even  greater 
number  participated  in  its  rituals.  During  the  time  of  Swedish  rule, 
the  church  was  the  country's  state  church,  and  it  was  part  of  the 
national  government,  subordinate  to  the  Swedish  king.  Even  when 
headed  during  the  nineteenth  century  by  Russian  tsars  of  the 
Orthodox  faith,  the  Lutheran  Church  remained  a  state  church. 
Since  1809,  however,  it  has  had  to  share  this  distinction  with  the 
Orthodox  Church,  which  had  followers  in  the  eastern  province  of 
Karelia. 

The  Ecclesiastical  Law  of  1869  gave  the  Lutheran  Church  a  meas- 
ure of  independence  from  the  state  by  allowing  it  a  representative 
body,  the  Synod,  that  could  decide  many  important  church  mat- 
ters on  its  own.  When  Finland  became  independent,  the  church 
gained  a  greater  degree  of  autonomy,  although  it  still  was  subject 
to  state  supervision.  The  president,  for  example,  decided  who  was 
to  become  a  bishop,  using  a  list  of  three  candidates  submitted  by 
the  Lutheran  Church.  In  1943  the  formation  of  its  own  central 


105 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

administration,  separate  from  the  Ministry  of  Education,  meant 
the  church  was  largely  self-sufficient.  Some  practical  matters,  such 
as  levels  of  church  taxes,  salaries  and  pensions,  or  reorganization 
of  church  districts,  were  still  decided  by  the  government  or  required 
its  approval,  but  in  many  other  matters  the  church  set  its  own 
course. 

A  study  commission  of  1977  recommended  a  greater  separation 
of  church  and  state  as  a  gocd  for  Finnish  society.  The  next  decade's 
discussion  of  abolishing  the  presidential  selection  of  bishops  was 
one  example  of  efforts  to  realize  this  goal.  The  gradual  movement 
away  from  the  national  government  meant  that  the  Lutheran 
Church  of  Finland,  although  still  a  state  church,  was  more  indepen- 
dent than  the  other  Lutheran  churches  of  the  Nordic  region.  This 
independence  was  so  marked  that  students  of  religion  commonly 
regarded  it  not  so  much  as  a  state  church,  but  as  a  folk  church 
that  served  all  Finns,  members  and  nonmembers  alike. 

Revivalist  Movements  Within  the  Lutheran  Church 

Another  characteristic  of  the  Lutheran  Church  of  Finland  that 
distinguished  it  from  the  other  Lutheran  churches  of  the  Nordic 
countries  was  the  strong  tradition  of  revivalism  that  flourished 
within  it.  Elsewhere,  revivalists  left  the  state  churches  and  founded 
their  own.  Although  Finnish  revivalist  movements  at  first  seemed 
a  threat  to  the  state  church,  ecclesiasticcd  authorities  came  to  learn 
that  these  new  currents  of  religious  feeling  could  enrich  the  church 
rather  than  diminish  it.  Since  the  nineteenth  century,  about  half 
a  dozen  distinct  movements  had  found  a  secure  and  enduring  place 
within  the  established  church.  This  meant  that  the  Lutheran  Church 
in  Finland  did  not  experience  recurring  splits  caused  by  members 
dissatisfied  for  reasons  of  doctrine  or  temperament.  The  enthusiasm 
and  the  fervor  of  the  revivalists  were  a  frequent  tonic  to  the  state 
church,  and  their  presence  within  it  allowed  the  church  closer  ties 
to  the  whole  of  the  Finnish  people  than  would  otherwise  have  been 
possible. 

The  revivalist  movements  remained  distinctly  Lutheran;  they 
adhered  to  the  doctrine  of  justification  by  faith  alone  as  the  center 
of  preaching  and  teaching,  and  made  clear  demarcations  between 
the  Kingdom  of  God  and  the  material  world.  Worldly  pleasures 
were  generally  decried,  with  a  varying  degree  of  emphasis  being 
placed  instead  on  abstinence,  faith,  abnegation,  and  prayer.  The 
faithful  could  go  to  God  directly  without  the  church  and  clergy  as 
intermediaries.  Priestly  intervention  was  not  necessary  in  the 
spiritual  realm.  In  the  material  world,  however,  there  was  secular 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


government  with  a  justified  civil  authority  worthy  of  obedience. 
The  movements  dXso  followed  the  traditional  Lutheran  insistence 
on  giving  ritual  a  smaller  place  than  it  enjoyed  in  Roman  Catholi- 
cism or  Eastern  Orthodoxy.  Hence,  there  were  only  two 
sacraments — baptism  and  Holy  Communion — retained  as  symbols 
to  strengthen  faith,  for  Lutherans  felt  that  they  had  no  inherent 
redemptive  value. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  five  or  six  main  movements  had  well  over 
100,000  members,  and  each  movement  was  vigorous  enough  to 
have  a  central  organization,  newspaper,  or  magazine.  Each  held 
a  summer  convention  that  could  attract  tens  of  thousands  of  the 
devout.  Though  the  movements  might  on  occasion  disagree  with 
positions  adopted  by  the  Lutheran  Church  as  a  whole,  they  could 
protest  them,  or  could  actually  prevent  their  adoption  at  the  church's 
democratically  arranged  meetings  and  forums. 

The  earliest  of  the  movements  was  The  Awakened.  Its  most  im- 
portant leader,  Paavo  Ruotsalainen  (1777-1852),  was  an  unedu- 
cated peasant  who  attracted  a  substanti2d  following  by  appealing 
to  the  poor  and  the  oppressed  through  his  emphases  on  Divine  great- 
ness and  on  human  wretchedness  and  helplessness.  Man,  he 
proclaimed,  was  inept  and  could  never  succeed;  only  God  redeemed 
and  healed.  Man's  duties,  then,  were  to  abandon  his  own  works 
and  to  trust  only  in  God.  Followers  of  The  Awakened  held  reli- 
gious services  at  their  homes  to  supplement  those  of  the  church. 
Unlike  the  Laestadians,  who  belonged  to  a  movement  founded 
somewhat  later,  followers  of  The  Awakened  were  tolerant;  they 
did  not  call  attention  to  themselves  as  believers  to  whom  grace  be- 
longs, in  contrast  to  the  rest  of  the  world,  which  was  unrepentant. 
In  the  late  1980s,  the  movement  was  strongest  in  the  eastern  Savo 
region  and  in  Ostrobothnia,  and  it  attracted  between  30,000  and 
40,000  to  its  summer  meetings. 

The  Laestadian  Movement,  named  after  its  founder,  Lars  Levi 
Laestadius  (1800-61),  a  Swedish  preacher  in  Lapland,  was  perhaps 
the  strongest  of  all  the  revivalist  movements;  even  in  the  1980s, 
it  could  attract  100,000  of  the  faithful  to  its  mass  meetings.  One 
reason  for  its  large  gatherings  was  the  importance  the  movement 
attached  to  the  visible  congregation  and  to  the  absolution  given 
to  its  members  after  confession.  The  movement's  services  were  often 
marked  by  ecstatic  outbursts.  Laestadians  were  somewhat  intoler- 
ant, as  they  stressed  the  certainty  of  salvation  for  Christians  and 
the  probability  of  damnation  for  nonbelievers.  This  adamancy 
caused  occasional  rifts  within  the  movement.  Laestadians  continued 
to  have  their  stronghold  in  northern  Finland,  where  the  movement 
had  originated. 


107 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


The  Evangelical  Movement  was  an  offshoot  of  The  Awakened. 
Its  founder,  Fredrik  Gabriel  Hedberg  (1811-93),  believed  that  an 
obsession  with  wretchedness  detracted  from  the  assurance  of  sal- 
vation that  a  Christian  has  through  his  faith  in  Christ's  righteous- 
ness. The  movement  stressed  infant  baptism,  as  its  adherents 
believed  the  whole  of  salvation  was  given  through  this  sacrament. 
It  also  was  noted  for  its  missionary  work  abroad. 

The  smsdlest  of  the  old  revivalist  groups  was  that  of  the  Sup- 
phcationists,  founded  by  Henrik  Renqvist  (1789-1866),  an  early 
advocate  of  the  temperance  movement.  Supplicationists  believed 
in  frequent  and  fervent  prayer  and  in  meetings  at  which  all 
remained  on  their  knees.  Supplicationists  were  active  mostly  in 
southwestern  Finland.  Quite  conservative  in  their  outlook,  they 
were  not  especially  successful  in  attracting  young  converts. 

Revivalism  has  also  seen  the  formation  of  newer  groups.  One 
of  these  was  the  Fifth  Revival,  dating  from  shortly  before  World 
War  II.  It  stressed  missionary  work  and  evangeUsm.  In  the  1970s 
Charismatics  also  began  to  be  active  within  the  Lutheran  Church 
of  Finland. 

Organization  and  Duties  of  the  Lutheran  Church 

The  Lutheran  Church  was  divided  into  eight  dioceses,  each 
headed  by  a  bishop.  An  exception  was  the  diocese  of  Turku,  which 
was  headed  by  an  archbishop.  Although  he  had  no  legal  power  over 
the  other  bishops,  the  archbishop  was  regarded  as  the  first  among 
equals  and  was  the  country's  most  prominent  clergyman.  He 
presided  over  important  church  meetings  and  was  frequently  the 
church's  spokesman.  One  of  the  dioceses,  that  of  Borga,  did  not 
have  a  primarily  territorial  basis,  but  ministered  to  the  Swedish- 
speaking  members  of  the  church  throughout  the  country.  For 
administrative  purposes,  each  diocese  had  a  chapter,  consisting  of 
the  bishop,  three  other  clergymen,  and  a  jurist.  The  chapter  also 
functioned  as  a  court  to  resolve  disputes  and  to  answer  appeals 
against  church  decisions.  Appeals  against  chapter  decisions  were 
handled  by  higher  state  courts.  The  highest  subdivision  of  the  dio- 
cese was  the  deanery,  an  administrative  entity  no  longer  of  much 
importance.  The  seventy-odd  deaneries  were  divided  into  parishes. 
In  the  late  1980s,  there  were  just  under  600  of  these  core  units  of 
the  church.  The  600  parishes  varied  widely  in  both  the  number 
of  their  parishioners  and  their  geographic  extent.  In  the  sparsely 
populated  north,  for  example,  a  parish  could  have  more  square 
kilometers  within  its  jurisdiction  than  it  did  parishioners,  while  there 
were  nearly  three  dozen  parishes  in  Helsinki  alone. 


108 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  Lutheran  Church  of  Finland  employed  about  18,000  per- 
sons in  1987,  some  10,000  of  whom  worked  full-time.  There  were 
about  1,400  ministers,  enough  to  meet  the  church's  needs.  They 
received  their  training  at  two  institutions,  one  in  Helsinki  and  the 
other  in  Turku.  The  first  women  priests  were  ordained  in  1988. 
Until  that  time,  women  had  been  limited  to  the  secondary  role  of 
lector,  with  duties  that  encompassed  teaching,  pastoral  work,  and 
administering  Holy  Communion. 

The  highest  body  of  the  church  was  the  Synod,  which  met  twice 
a  year,  once  in  the  spring  and  once  in  the  fall.  The  108-member 
body  consisted  of  the  8  bishops,  1  military  bishop,  2  high  judges, 
1  representative  of  the  government,  and  96  elected  delegates — 64 
of  whom  were  laymen  and  32  of  whom  were  clergymen.  The  num- 
ber of  delegates  that  the  individual  diocese  sent  to  the  Synod 
depended  on  its  population,  but  each  diocese  sent  at  least  six 
delegates,  two  of  whom  were  clergymen.  Chaired  by  the  archbishop, 
the  Synod  had  a  number  of  responsibilities,  including  deliberat- 
ing on  legislative  questions,  directing  disbursement  of  the  resources 
of  the  central  church  fund,  supervising  Bible  translations,  discuss- 
ing the  nature  of  relations  with  other  religious  organizations,  and 
resolving  tiindamental  and  highly  divisive  issues. 

Two  other  central  bodies  were  the  Ecclesiastical  Board  and  the 
Bishops'  Conference.  The  former  was  a  permanent  body,  chaired 
by  the  archbishop,  that  oversaw  the  church's  administration  and 
finances  and  prepared  matters  for  discussion  at  the  Synod.  The 
latter,  consisting  of  the  bishops  and  eight  other  church  officials, 
met  twice  a  year  to  discuss,  in  an  unbinding  way,  issues  of  con- 
cern to  the  dioceses. 

The  church  placed  great  emphasis  on  congregational  life.  Despite 
the  apparent  episcopad  nature  of  the  church  organization,  parishes 
were  quite  independent.  They  made  most  of  their  decisions  on  their 
own  and  had  only  to  observe  the  constraints  of  ecclesiastical  law. 
By  means  of  democratically  elected  councils  and  boards,  they  chose 
their  own  pastors,  church  musicians,  and  administrative  person- 
nel and,  to  some  degree,  set  their  own  salaries.  Every  adult  mem- 
ber of  a  parish  had  the  right  to  vote,  and  he  or  she  had  the  possibility 
of  winning  a  place  on  the  council  or  board,  which  meant  that  the 
laity  had  much  say  about  how  its  parish  was  run. 

Parishes  were  financially  independent,  for  it  was  to  them  that 
the  national  government  paid  the  church  tax,  equal  to  about  1  per- 
cent of  the  taxable  income  of  parishioners.  Corporations  within 
a  parish  were  also  obliged  to  pay  the  church  tax,  and,  altogether, 
this  tax  represented  about  75  percent  of  the  Lutheran  Church's 
income.  Some  of  the  religious  and  social  services  that  a  parish 


109 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

managed  yielded  income,  too,  as  did  the  1  percent  of  the  nation's 
forests  that  were  in  church  possession.  An  elected  administrative 
board  and  an  executive  council  managed  parish  finances,  although 
in  urban  areas  parishes  sometimes  banded  together  to  handle  such 
practical  details.  Parishes  were  obliged,  however,  to  pay  about  6 
percent  of  their  income  to  a  fund,  used  by  the  church  as  a  whole, 
to  help  poorer  parishes  and  to  pay  for  other  activities  like  mission- 
ary work. 

The  historiczd  role  of  the  Lutheran  Church  as  a  state  church  was 
reflected  in  the  services  managed  by  the  parish  that  in  other  coun- 
tries were  the  concern  of  secular  government.  For  instance,  it  main- 
tained the  official  population  records  for  all  of  its  members.  Those 
of  nonmembers  were  kept  by  local  government.  Parishes  managed 
graveyards.  In  an  area  where  there  was  no  alternative  cemetery, 
nonmembers  or  nonbelievers  could  be  buried  in  one  belonging  to 
the  church.  Weddings  performed  by  the  parish  had  the  same  value 
as  civil  services,  provided  both  the  bride  and  groom  were  Christians. 

Parishes  did  not  limit  themselves  to  regular  religious  services  and 
to  other  activities  such  as  Sunday  schools  or  study  groups.  They 
often  organized  a  specifically  Finnish  religious  meeting,  the  seurat, 
which  had  its  origins  in  the  revivalist  tradition  and  was  a  mixture 
of  hymns  and  addresses  by  both  clergy  and  laymen. 

Parish  personnel  also  offered  services  of  a  secular  nature  that 
supplemented  social  services  provided  by  the  state.  Church  law 
required  that  each  parish  have  a  deacon  or  deaconess  who  had  many 
of  the  responsibilities  of  a  state  social  worker.  Often  trained  as 
nurses,  deaconesses  ministered  to  the  sick,  aged,  and  handicapped 
and  coordinated  their  work  with  state  agencies.  Since  World  War 
II ,  the  church  has  been  active  in  providing  personnel  and  facilities 
to  youth  programs,  such  as  summer  camps. 

Orthodox  Church  of  Finland 

The  other  state  church  was  the  Orthodox  Church  of  Finland. 
Although  it  had  a  much  smaller  membership  than  the  Lutheran 
Church  of  Finland,  only  56,000  in  1987,  it  enjoyed  the  same  legal 
status  and  rights  as  the  larger  church.  The  state  paid  it  the  church 
tax  it  had  collected  from  its  parishioners,  and  the  Orthodox  Church 
kept  parishioners'  official  demographic  records.  Although  the  state 
had  some  control  over  its  activity,  the  Orthodox  Church  was  largely 
independent.  It  also  was  a  distinctly  Finnish  church,  for  although 
it  rites  and  practices  were  Slavic,  in  accordance  with  Orthodox  doc- 
trine, it  had  been  using  the  Finnish  language  in  its  services  since 
the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  After  Finland  became 
independent,  the  Orthodox  Church  of  Finland  broke  with  the 


110 


View  of  Helsinki's  historic  center:  foreground,  Uspenski 
Cathedral,  the  largest  Orthodox  church  in  Western  Europe;  upper  left, 
the  Esplanade,  the  capital's  spacious  promenade 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 

Russian  Orthodox  Church,  and  after  1923  it  belonged  to  the  Ecu- 
menical Patriarchate  of  Constantinople,  the  leader  of  which  was 
its  nominal  head. 

Before  World  War  II,  most  members  of  the  Orthodox  Church 
lived  in  the  province  of  Karelia.  After  much  of  the  province  was 
annexed  by  the  Soviet  Union  in  1944,  most  Finns  living  in  the 
annexed  areas  fled  westward.  Some  70  percent  of  the  members  of 
the  Orthodox  Church  were  therefore  dispersed  throughout  Finland, 
and  many  settled  in  regions  where  before  there  had  been  only  Lu- 
therans. By  the  1980s,  there  were  twenty-five  parishes  in  the  coun- 
try. In  1980  a  third  diocese  was  created  in  northern  Finland  to 
minister  better  to  Orthodox  Christians  living  in  that  region  and 
to  make  the  Orthodox  Church  eligible  to  become  fully  autonomous, 
or  in  Orthodox  terminology,  autocephalous. 

The  highest  official  of  the  Finnish  church  was  the  archbishop 
of  the  diocese  of  Karelia,  with  its  seat  at  Kuopio.  Two  other  bishops, 
or  metropolitans,  headed  the  other  two  dioceses,  those  of  Helsinki 
and  Oulu.  The  church's  highest  governing  body  was  the  Church 
Assembly,  which  met  every  third  year  unless  more  frequent  meet- 
ings were  necessary.  It  consisted  of  thirty-four  voting  members. 


111 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

seventeen  of  whom  were  laymen.  Routine  administration  was 
managed  by  the  Church  Council.  The  Bishops'  Synod  approved 
the  doctrinal  decisions  of  the  assembly. 

Local  administrative  practices  were  democratized  and  mirrored  the 
power  and  influence  of  the  laity  seen  in  the  Lutheran  Church. 

Smaller  Registered  Churches 

In  the  1980s,  there  were  more  than  two  dozen  other  registered 
religions  in  Finland,  but  none  of  them  enjoyed  the  legal  status  of 
the  two  state  churches.  The  largest  single  group  in  the  second  half 
of  the  1980s  consisted  of  several  Pentecostal  churches  that  drew 
on  the  revivalist  strains  always  present  in  the  Finnish  religious  tra- 
dition. Pentecostal  churches  had  a  total  congregation  of  about 
40,000,  distributed  in  a  number  of  organizations.  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  Day  Saints  (Mormons)  had  some  success 
and  had  about  4,000  followers.  Roman  Catholics  numbered  about 
4,000,  distributed  in  5  parishes  presided  over  by  a  bishop.  Most 
of  the  score  of  priests  were  foreigners,  and  Roman  Catholic  Finns 
who  desired  ordination  had  to  study  abroad.  So  successful  had  the 
Protestant  Reformation  been  in  extirpating  Roman  Catholicism 
from  Finland  that  for  more  than  three  centuries  no  Finn  had  become 
a  Roman  Catholic  priest  until  one  was  ordained  in  Paris  in  1903. 
The  Jewish  community  of  1,200  persons  was  located  in  southern 
urban  areas.  It  was  so  small  that  it  was  having  trouble  sustaining 
itself  and  had  to  seek  its  rabbi  abroad.  Finland's  tiny  Muslim  com- 
munity dated  from  the  nineteenth  century  and  numbered  about 
900.  As  in  other  Western  countries,  eastern  religions  and  sects  had 
received  some  attention  in  Finland  in  recent  decades.  The  most 
successful  of  them  was  the  Baha'i  Society  of  Finland  with  just  over 
300  followers. 

Education 

Finland  has  had  a  strong  tradition  of  literacy  since  the  Protes- 
tant Reformation.  The  Lutheran  Church  aimed  at  widespread  liter- 
acy to  enable  the  common  man  to  read  the  Bible.  In  the  next 
century,  proof  of  literacy  became  a  requirement  for  the  right  to 
marry.  By  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  legislation 
was  in  place  for  a  general  system  of  elementary  education,  although 
the  tsarist  regime  did  not  gdlow  its  realization.  After  independence, 
a  Comprehensive  Education  Act  was  passed  in  1921  that  met  the 
state's  constitutional  requirement  to  provide  "universsd  compul- 
sory education,"  including  elementary  education,  at  no  cost.  Legis- 
lation also  stipulated  that  Finnish  citizens  had  a  duty  to  be  educated. 

In  the  postwar  period,  the  basic  goal  of  Finnish  education 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


authorities  has  been  to  create  a  system  that  would  provide  equal 
educational  opportunities  for  everyone,  would  guarantee  the  country 
a  populace  able  to  meet  the  technological  challenges  of  the  inter- 
national marketplace,  would  encourage  democratic  values,  and 
would  allow  each  person  the  fullest  readization  of  his  or  her  poten- 
tial. Work  to  realize  this  goal  has  led  since  the  1960s  to  profound 
changes  in  the  organization  of  the  country's  school  system.  The 
old  elementary  school  system  that  determined  at  an  early  age 
whether  pupils  were  to  follow  a  general  or  an  academic  course  of 
studies  was  replaced  by  a  uniform  comprehensive  system  that  post- 
poned this  decision  until  the  mid- teens  and  that,  even  then,  did 
not  bar  anyone  from  higher  training  at  a  later  time.  Secondary 
education  was  broadened  and  reformed  to  allow  a  greater  range 
of  choices  and  opportunities.  University  education  was  expanded 
and  distributed  more  equally  across  the  country,  its  control  was 
democratized,  and  access  to  it  was  widened. 

Primary  and  Secondary  Education 

The  School  System  Act,  passed  in  1968,  abolished  the  two- track 
elementary  school  system  and  replaced  it  with  a  single  comprehen- 
sive school  with  a  nine-year  course  of  studies.  The  new  school  was 
uniform  throughout  the  country  and  was  compulsory  for  all  chil- 
dren between  the  ages  of  seven  and  sixteen.  Children  in  Finland 
began  school  at  a  later  age  than  those  in  many  other  countries 
because  of  the  distances  some  of  them  had  to  travel  in  sparsely  set- 
tled areas.  Private  schools  also  were  gradually  incorporated  into 
the  system,  which  was  fully  in  place  by  the  late  1970s. 

The  school  program  was  broken  into  two  stages:  a  lower  level 
for  the  first  six  grades  and  an  upper  level  for  grades  seven  through 
nine  (see  fig.  13).  In  some  areas  there  was  a  voluntary  tenth  year. 
The  school  year  began  in  the  second  half  of  August  and  ended  in 
early  June,  with  a  two-week  break  at  Christmas  and  a  one-week 
break  both  in  the  winter  and  at  Easter.  The  pre- school  system  was 
directed  by  the  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  this  system  was  able  to  accommodate  only  one-third 
of  the  children  of  the  relevant  age-group. 

Instruction  at  comprehensive  schools  was  free,  as  were  books, 
a  daily  hot  meal,  transportation,  and  even  lodging  for  those  stu- 
dents who  lived  too  far  from  a  school  to  manage  a  daily  commute. 
Efforts  were  made  to  ensure  that  the  quality  of  instruction  did  not 
vary  and  that  children  in  Lapland  were  as  well  instructed  as  those 
in  Helsinki.  In  bilingual  communities,  children  had  the  right  to 
instruction  in  their  own  language.  Children  also  had  the  right  to 
classes  in  their  own  religion,  unless  there  were  too  few  students 


113 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


AGE 
19 

16 
13 


SCHOOL 
YEAR 

12 


UNIVERSITY 


1  

I  ACADEMIC 
|HIGH  SCHOOL 


VOCATIONAL 
^DUCAJiqiM  

General  Studies 


Upper  Level 

COMPREHENSIVE  SCHOOL 
Lower  Level 


C 
O 
M 
P 
U 
L 
8 
O 
R 
Y 


DAY  CARE  CENTERS 


Figure  13.  Education  System,  1980s 


of  a  particular  religion  to  make  this  practicable,  or  they  could  be 
excused  from  religious  instruction.  If  at  least  five  students  had  no 
religion,  an  alternative  nonreligious  course  was  obligatory.  Schools 
were  not  divided  according  to  sex. 

After  graduation  from  a  comprehensive  school,  students  con- 
tinued their  education  at  either  vocational  schools  or  the  more 
demanding  vocational  institutes,  or  at  the  academically  oriented 
secondary  schools.  During  the  1980s,  a  slight  majority  of  students 
chose  vocational  training  to  prepare  them  for  one  or  more  of  several 
hundred  commercial  and  technical  occupations.  Some  60  percent 
of  these  students  attended  two-year  to  three-year  courses  at  voca- 
tional schools,  while  the  remainder  enrolled  in  four-year  to  five- 
year  courses  at  vocational  institutes  that  led  to  careers  in  highly 
skilled  fields  or  to  management  and  planning  positions.  Students 
at  the  academic  high  schools  had  to  pass  an  examination,  after 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


three  years  of  study,  before  they  could  attend  a  university.  Fewer 
than  half  passed  this  examination,  and  only  about  one-fourth  of 
those  successful  managed  to  secure  places  at  universities.  Although 
the  academic  high  school  was  the  most  common  route  to  a  univer- 
sity in  the  1980s,  an  increasing  number  of  places  there  were  being 
held  for  graduates  of  vocational  institutes. 

The  schools'  curricula  were  set  by  law,  and  their  content  was 
determined  at  the  national  level  by  the  Ministry  of  Education,  the 
National  Board  of  General  Education,  and  the  National  Board  of 
Vocational  Education.  Local  authorities,  however,  had  some  say 
about  how  they  would  be  taught.  Language  instruction  accounted 
for  one-third  of  teaching  time  in  comprehensive  schools  and  for 
somewhat  more  in  secondary  schools.  In  the  third  grade,  children 
began  taking  a  second  language,  usually  Finnish  for  Swedish  speak- 
ers and  English  for  the  others.  Sciences  and  mathematics  accounted 
for  about  30  percent  of  teaching  time  at  the  comprehensive  level 
and  for  somewhat  less  at  academic  schools  at  the  secondary  level, 
while  social  and  humanistic  courses  accounted  for  12  percent  in 
the  former  and  18  percent  in  the  latter.  Comprehensive  schools 
spent  one-fourth  of  their  time  on  art,  physical  education,  and  related 
courses,  while  secondary  schools  accorded  them  a  little  less  than 
one-fifth  of  their  time.  The  courses  vocational  schools  offered  varied 
greatly  because  of  the  wide  variety  of  material  taught.  After  the 
first  year  of  general  courses,  most  instruction  was  connected  directly 
with  the  chosen  specialty. 

Since  the  late  1970s,  all  teachers  in  the  comprehensive  and  secon- 
dary schools  have  been  obliged  to  have  a  university  degree.  Two 
art  academies  and  eight  universities  provided  teacher  education. 
Vocational  teachers,  given  the  wide  variety  of  courses  they  taught, 
could  sometimes  substitute  occupational  experience  for  university 
training.  Teachers  of  the  first  six  years  of  comprehensive  school 
functioned  as  class  teachers  rather  than  as  subject  specialists  and 
were  required  to  have  a  Master  of  Education  degree,  while  their 
colleagues  in  the  upper  levels  needed  a  master's  degree  in  the  sub- 
ject they  had  chosen  to  teach.  Although  selection  criteria  for  places 
in  teacher  training  were  stringent  (only  10  percent  of  applicants 
were  accepted),  Finland  had  enough  teachers  to  allow  classes  in 
the  comprehensive  system  to  average  about  thirty  pupils;  classes 
in  the  secondary  schools  averaged  about  twenty  pupils.  In  sparse- 
ly populated  areas,  however,  it  was  sometimes  necessary  to  form 
classes  with  pupils  of  different  ages  and  grade  levels. 

Special  education  generally  was  accomplished  within  regular 
schools.  This  practice  was  in  consonance  with  the  overall  policy 
of  avoiding  "tracking,"  which  was  seen  to  limit  a  pupil's  range 


115 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

of  educational  opportunities  by  placing  him  or  her  at  a  particular 
level  of  instruction.  An  attempt  was  made  to  keep  all  members  of 
a  class  together  and  to  address  special  needs  through  individual 
counseling  and  tutoring.  This  principle  reflected  the  overriding  goal 
of  having  an  open  and  flexible  school  system  that  matched  individual 
qualities  and  aspirations. 

Higher  Education 

In  the  late  1980s,  Finland's  system  of  higher  education  consist- 
ed of  ten  universities  (each  with  at  least  several  different  faculties), 
seven  one-discipline  institutions  with  such  specialties  as  technolo- 
gy or  business  administration,  and  three  art  academies.  The  lar- 
gest, the  University  of  Helsinki,  was  founded  in  1640.  The 
remainder  date  from  the  twentieth  century;  the  newest,  the  Univer- 
sity of  Lapland  at  Rovaniemi,  from  1979.  During  the  mid-1980s, 
there  were  about  90,000  students  at  institutions  of  higher  educa- 
tion. Competition  for  acceptance  for  university-level  study  was 
intense,  and  fewer  than  one  out  of  four  applicants  obtained  a  place. 
There  were  no  private  universities  in  Finland. 

By  the  late  1980s,  institutions  of  higher  learning  were  granting 
three  degrees:  a  master's  degree  that  required  from  four  to  six  years 
of  study;  a  graduate  degree,  the  licentiate,  requiring  another  two 
years  of  study;  and  the  doctorate,  awarded  usually  after  four  years 
or  so  of  graduate  study.  A  candidate  did  not  have  to  obtain  the 
licentiate  to  be  awarded  the  doctorate. 

Like  the  country's  primary  and  secondary  schools,  Finnish 
universities  were  free.  To  help  with  living  expenses,  however,  stu- 
dents who  were  enrolled  in  secondary  schools  and  at  universities 
were  entitled  to  financial  aid  by  the  Study  Allowances  Act  of  1972. 
By  the  1980s,  more  than  half  the  student  body  at  these  institutions 
received  aid  in  the  form  of  allowances  or  low-interest  loans. 

Institutions  of  higher  learning  had  about  7,000  instructors 
altogether  in  the  1980s.  Academic  freedom  was  ensured  through 
a  tenure  system  that  protected  most  of  this  number  from  dismis- 
sal. The  institutions  themselves  were  under  the  overall  direction 
of  the  Ministry  of  Education,  but  they  enjoyed  considerable  inter- 
nal autonomy.  The  autonomy  of  the  University  of  Helsinki  was 
even  guaranteed  by  the  Constitution  of  1919.  The  trend  toward 
greater  internal  democracy  had  also  touched  Finnish  universities, 
and  by  the  late  1980s  professors  were  sharing  much  of  their  former 
power  with  other  faculty  members,  university  staff,  and  students. 

An  area  of  future  growth  in  Finnish  education  was  expect- 
ed to  be  that  of  supplementary  education  at  the  university 
level.  No  degrees  were  to  be  granted,  but  much  greater  access  to 


116 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


university  resources  was  to  be  offered  to  those  wishing  to  deepen 
their  knowledge  of  a  particular  field  either  for  professional  reasons 
or  for  personal  pleasure.  It  was  estimated  that,  by  the  early  1990s, 
one-tenth  of  university  teaching  would  occur  in  an  open-university- 
like forum. 

Adult  Education 

Finland  had  a  long  tradition  of  adult  education,  and  by  the  1980s 
nearly  one  million  Finns  were  receiving  some  kind  of  instruction 
each  year.  Forty  percent  of  them  did  so  for  professional  reasons. 
Adult  education  appeared  in  a  number  of  forms,  such  as  secon- 
dary evening  schools,  civic  and  workers'  institutes,  study  centers, 
vocational  course  centers,  and  folk  high  schools.  Study  centers 
allowed  groups  to  follow  study  plans  of  their  own  making,  with 
educational  and  financial  assistance  provided  by  the  state.  Folk  high 
schools  were  a  distinctly  Nordic  institution.  Originating  in  Den- 
mark in  the  nineteenth  century,  folk  high  schools  became  common 
throughout  the  region.  Adults  of  all  ages  could  stay  at  them  for 
several  weeks  and  take  courses  in  subjects  that  ranged  from  han- 
dicrafts to  economics. 

Public  Welfare 

In  the  late  1980s,  Finland  had  one  of  the  world's  most  advanced 
welfare  systems,  one  that  guaranteed  decent  living  conditions  for 
all  Finns.  Created  almost  entirely  during  the  first  three  decades 
after  World  War  II,  the  system  was  an  outgrowth  of  the  traditional 
Nordic  belief  that  the  state  was  not  inherently  hostile  to  the  well- 
being  of  its  citizens,  but  could  intervene  benevolently  on  their 
behalf.  According  to  some  social  historians,  the  basis  of  this  belief 
was  a  relatively  benign  history  that  had  allowed  the  gradual  emer- 
gence of  a  free  and  independent  peasantry  in  the  Nordic  countries 
and  had  curtailed  the  dominance  of  the  nobility  and  the  subsequent 
formation  of  a  powerful  right  wing.  Finland's  history  has  been 
harsher  than  the  histories  of  the  other  Nordic  countries,  but  not 
harsh  enough  to  bar  the  country  from  following  their  path  of  social 
development. 

Growth  of  the  Social  Welfare  System 

In  the  last  years  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Finnish  social  policy 
had  as  its  goal  a  lessening  of  class  friction.  The  few  existing  pieces 
of  social  legislation  addressed  the  needs  of  specific  groups  rather 
than  of  society  as  a  whole.  After  the  Civil  War,  little  was  accom- 
plished in  welfare  legislation.  A  woefully  insufficient  national  pen- 
sion plan  was  set  up  in  1937,  as  were  measures  to  aid  needy  mothers. 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


It  was  only  after  World  War  II  that  Finnish  social  policy  acquired 
the  characteristics  that  in  the  next  decades  made  it  similar  to  other 
Nordic  systems  of  social  welfare. 

According  to  Finnish  sociologist  Erik  Allardt,  the  hallmark  of 
the  Nordic  welfare  system  was  its  comprehensiveness.  Unlike  the 
welfare  systems  of  the  United  States  or  most  West  European  coun- 
tries, those  of  the  Nordic  countries  covered  the  entire  population, 
and  they  were  not  limited  to  those  groups  unable  to  care  for  them- 
selves. Examples  of  this  universality  of  coverage  were  national 
flat-rate  pensions  available  to  all  once  they  reached  a  certain  age, 
regardless  of  what  they  had  paid  into  the  plan,  and  national  health 
plans  based  on  medical  needs  rather  than  on  financial  means.  In 
addition,  the  citizens  of  the  Nordic  countries  had  a  legal  right  to 
the  benefits  provided  by  their  welfare  systems,  the  provisions  of 
which  were  designed  to  meet  what  was  perceived  as  a  collective 
responsibility  to  ensure  everyone  a  decent  standard  of  living.  The 
Nordic  system  also  was  distinguished  by  the  many  aspects  of  peo- 
ple's lives  it  touched  upon. 

The  Finnish  welfare  system  differed  from  those  of  other  Nordic 
countries  mainly  in  that  its  benefits  were  lower  in  some  categories, 
such  as  sickness  and  unemployment  payments;  otherwise,  the  Fin- 
nish system  fit  into  the  Nordic  conception  of  social  welfare.  Fin- 
nish social  expenditures  constituted  about  7  percent  of  the  country's 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  in  1950,  roughly  equal 
to  what  Sweden,  Denmark,  and  Norway  were  spending.  By  the 
mid-1980s,  Finland's  social  expenditures  had  risen  to  about  24  per- 
cent of  GDP,  compared  with  the  other  countries'  respective  35, 
30,  and  22  percent  (see  table  9,  Appendix  A).  Less  than  10  per- 
cent of  these  expenditures  was  paid  for  by  Finnish  wage  earners; 
the  remainder  came  roughly  equally  from  the  state  and  from 
employers.  Until  the  second  half  of  the  1970s,  Finnish  employers 
had  paid  a  higher  share  of  social  outlays  than  had  their  counter- 
parts in  the  other  Nordic  countries.  In  response  to  the  slowdown 
of  the  world  economy  after  1973,  there  was  some  shifting  of  social 
burdens  to  the  state,  which  made  Finnish  companies  more  price 
competitive  abroad. 

Finland's  welfare  system  also  differed  from  those  of  its  neigh- 
bors in  that  it  was  put  in  place  slightly  later  than  theirs,  and  it  was 
only  fully  realized  in  the  decade  after  the  formation  of  the  Red- 
Earth  government  in  1966  (see  Finland  in  the  Era  of  Consensus, 
1966-81 ,  ch.  1).  Just  after  World  War  II,  the  Finns  directed  their 
attention  to  maternal  and  child  care.  In  1957  the  government 
established  an  improved  national  pension  plan  and  supplemented 
it  in  the  early  1960s  with  private  pension  funds.  Unemployment 


119 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


aid  was  organized  in  1959  and  in  1960,  and  it  was  reformed  in 
1972.  Legislation  of  the  1950s  and  the  1960s  also  mandated  the 
construction  of  a  network  of  hospitals,  the  education  of  more  medical 
personnel,  and,  from  1963  to  the  early  1970s,  the  establishment 
of  a  system  of  health  insurance.  The  housing  allowance  system 
expanded  during  the  1960s  to  reach  ever-widening  circles  of  the 
population.  Health-care  officials  turned  away  from  hospital  care 
in  the  1970s,  and  they  began  to  emphasize  the  use  of  smaller  local 
clinics.  By  the  1980s,  the  Finnish  welfare  system  was  up  to  Nordic 
standards  and  had  the  support  of  most  Finns.  All  major  political 
parties  were  committed  to  maintaining  it,  and  its  role  in  Finnish 
society  seemed  secure  for  the  coming  decades. 

Organization  of  the  Welfare  System 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health 
directed  the  welfare  system  through  five  departments:  social 
insurance,  social  welfare,  health  care,  temperance  and  alcohol 
policy,  and  labor.  According  to  Finland's  administrative  tradition, 
it  is  the  task  of  a  ministry  and  its  departments  to  determine  policy, 
which  is  then  administered  by  central  boards.  In  the  case  of  social 
policy,  there  were  three  central  boards  for  social  welfare,  health, 
and  labor  protection.  An  exception  to  this  administrative  division 
was  the  Social  Security  Institute,  which  supervised  the  national  pen- 
sion plan  and  health  insurance  for  the  Eduskunta  and  the  Council 
of  State. 

The  actual  supplier  of  social  care  was  local  government — the 
municipality — supervised  by  authorities  at  the  provincial  level  who 
had  to  approve  the  administrative  plans  of  municipalities  before 
these  local  governments  could  receive  funds  from  the  state.  In  the 
early  1980s,  funds  from  the  state  made  up  about  30  percent  of  the 
monies  spent  on  all  social  services  and  pensions,  while  employers 
supplied  about  40  percent;  local  governments,  15  percent;  and  the 
recipients  of  services,  the  remainder. 

Income  Security  Programs  Classified  as  Social  Insurance 

Finland,  like  the  other  Nordic  countries,  divided  most  of  its  social 
programs  into  those  that  guaranteed  income  security  and  those  that 
provided  social  and  health  services.  Income  security  programs  came 
in  two  categories:  social  insurance,  which  provided  income  despite 
old  age,  illness,  pregnancy,  unemployment,  or  work-related  inju- 
ries; and  income  security  classified  as  welfare,  which  consisted  of 
income  transfers  to  aid  families  through  measures  such  as  child 
payments,  maternity  grants,  payments  to  war  victims  and  their 
survivors,  and  financial  aid  to  those  afflicted  by  disability  or  pressing 


120 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


needs.  Programs  of  the  first  category,  income  security  guarantees, 
took  some  80  percent  of  the  funds  expended  for  social  welfare  (see 
table  10,  Appendix  A). 

National  Pension  Plan 

Finland's  first  national  old-age  pension  plan  dates  from  1937, 
but  it  was  so  poorly  funded  that  a  new  National  Pensions  Act  was 
put  into  effect  in  1957.  In  the  late  1980s,  this  law,  somewhat 
reformed,  was  still  the  basis  of  Finland's  National  Pension  Plan, 
which  was  open  to  all  residents  over  the  age  of  sixteen,  even  to 
those  who  had  never  paid  into  it.  Even  those  foreigners  not  from 
the  Nordic  countries  were  entitied  to  this  pension  if  they  had  resided 
in  Finland  for  at  least  five  years.  Those  who  left  for  residence  in 
a  country  outside  Nordic  Europe,  even  those  who  were  Finnish 
citizens,  could  receive  the  pension  for  only  one  year.  The  flat-rate 
national  pension  could  be  paid  as  an  old-age  pension,  once  a  per- 
son reached  the  age  of  sixty-five;  as  an  invalidity  pension  (either 
full  or  partial)  to  those  between  the  ages  of  sixteen  and  sixty-four 
who  were  no  longer  able  to  work;  or,  in  some  cases,  to  the  long- 
term  unemployed  who  were  in  their  late  fifties  or  early  sixties.  In 
addition  to  these  classes  of  beneficiaries,  survivors  of  those  eligible 
for  national  pensions  who  were  not  themselves  eligible  for  the  pen- 
sions could  receive  pensions  under  the  terms  of  the  Survivor's  Pen- 
sion Plan.  Also  tied  to  the  National  Pension  Plan  were  payments 
for  handicapped  children  living  at  home  and  for  some  combat  vet- 
erans of  World  War  II. 

Payments  of  the  national  pension  were  uniform  for  everyone; 
in  the  mid- 1980s,  they  amounted  to  Fmk334  (for  value  of  the  Fin- 
nish mark — see  Glossary)  a  month.  To  this  amount  were  added 
the  assistance  payment,  which  varied  according  to  a  pensioner's 
marital  status,  the  cost  of  living  in  his  or  her  locality,  and  other 
pensions  that  he  or  she  received.  Other  supplementary  payments 
could  be  made  for  dependent  children,  for  degree  of  disability,  and 
for  housing  costs,  as  well  as  for  veterans  of  the  Civil  War  and  of 
World  War  II.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the  supplemental  payment  to  a 
single  pensioner  could  range  from  Fmkl  ,362  to  Fmkl  ,436  a  month. 
The  supplement  for  each  child  amounted  to  Fmkl81,  and  hous- 
ing supplements  V2iried  according  to  housing  costs  but  could  amount 
to  as  much  as  approximately  Fmkl, 000.  Helplessness  supplements 
could  be  worth  up  to  about  Fmk400,  depending  on  the  age  and 
the  physical  state  of  the  pensioner.  National  pensions  were  indexed, 
and  they  increased  in  value  each  year.  Since  reforms  of  the  early 
1980s,  national  pensions  were  not  taxable  if  they  were  the  sole  source 
of  income.  Pensions  were  no  longer  affected  by  a  spouse's  earnings 


121 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

or  pension  income,  and  the  national  pension  could  only  be  reduced 
by  income  from  other  pensions.  The  National  Pension  Plan  was 
funded  by  the  beneficiary's  own  contributions,  about  2  percent  of 
his  or  her  locally  taxable  income,  and  by  employer  contributions 
of  4  to  5  percent  of  the  insured  person's  wages. 

Employee  Pension  Plans 

The  Employees'  Pensions  Act  was  passed  in  1961  to  supplement 
the  National  Pension  Plan,  which,  while  adequate  for  Finns  living 
in  the  countryside — a  majority  of  the  population  until  the  1960s — 
did  not  provide  enough  benefits  for  city  dwellers.  During  the  next 
decade,  other  compulsory  wage-related  pension  plans  were  enacted 
into  law  for  temporary  employees,  for  national  and  local  govern- 
ment employees,  for  those  working  for  a  state  church,  and  for  the 
self-employed.  At  the  end  of  the  decade,  a  supplementary  plan  was 
created  for  farmers  as  well.  Seamen  had  had  an  income-based  plan 
since  1956,  and,  as  of  1986,  those  active  in  free-lance  professions 
such  as  acting  and  writing  cdso  obtained  coverage.  These  employ- 
ment pension  plans  were  completely  funded  by  the  employers,  pri- 
vate or  public,  who  paid  contributions,  equal  on  the  average  to 
about  10  percent  of  a  worker's  earnings,  into  funds  managed  by 
seven  large  insurance  companies  or  who  set  up  funds  on  their  own. 
Self-employed  persons  had  to  choose  a  fund.  The  Central  Pension 
Security  Institute  was  responsible  for  keeping  records  about 
employment  and  benefits. 

The  normal  age  of  pensionable  retirement  was  sixty-five,  and 
the  pension  paid  was  based  on  the  average  esirnings  one  had  received 
in  the  last  four  years  of  work  ending  two  years  before  retirement. 
One  could  receive  up  to  60  percent  of  private-sector  earnings  and 
up  to  66  percent  of  public-sector  earnings.  The  average  wage-related 
pension  in  the  mid-1980s  was  about  Fmkl,000  per  month.  Older 
employees,  at  work  before  these  pension  plans  became  effective, 
were  guaranteed  a  minimum  pension  of  at  least  29  percent  if  they 
retired  before  1975,  and  37  percent  if  they  retired  after  this  date. 
Like  the  national  pension,  wage-related  pensions  were  indexed, 
and  they  increased  each  year.  In  addition,  there  were  provisions 
relating  to  disability,  early  or  late  retirement,  and  survivors'  benefits 
similar  to  those  in  effect  for  the  National  Pension  Plan. 

Sickness  Insurance 

The  Sickness  Insurance  Act  of  1963  introduced  health  insurance 
to  Finland  in  two  stages.  First,  beginning  in  1964  it  provided  pay- 
ments when  wages  were  lost  because  of  illness  or  maternity  leave 
and  payments  for  the  cost  of  treatment  and  medicine.  Three  years 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


later,  it  began  paying  doctors'  bills  as  well.  Until  the  act  went  into 
effect,  only  a  small  minority  of  the  population,  generally  those 
employed  by  large  firms,  had  medical  insurance. 

All  persons  resident  in  Finland  for  more  than  a  short  time  were 
eligible  for  benefits.  Foreigners  had  to  register  with  the  local  health 
authorities  to  receive  payments.  In  the  1980s,  the  daily  payment 
made  to  make  up  for  losses  of  income  due  to  illness  averaged  about 
80  percent  of  a  typical  wage  and  could  last  for  as  many  as  300  work- 
days. Highly  paid  individuals  received  less.  Hospital  care  in  pub- 
lic hospitals  was  generally  free,  and  other  compensation  amounted 
to  60  percent  of  doctors'  fees,  75  percent  of  laboratory  expenses, 
and  50  percent  of  medicine  costs.  In  the  mid-1980s,  dental  care 
was  free  for  anyone  bom  after  1961 ,  but  for  others  it  was  paid  only 
if  dental  problems  had  to  be  treated  to  cure  a  disease.  Maternity 
leave  payments  amounted  to  about  80  percent  of  income  for  about 
one  year,  and  could  begin  five  weeks  before  the  estimated  date  of 
the  birth.  Fathers  could  take  some  of  this  time,  with  a  correspond- 
ing cut  in  the  days  allowed  to  the  mother.  Sickness  insurance  was 
funded  by  the  recipients  themselves  through  their  payment  of  about 
2  percent  of  their  locally  taxable  income,  by  employers  who  paid 
a  contribution  of  about  1  percent  of  the  employee's  wages,  and 
by  the  state. 

However  generous  these  benefits  appeared  in  an  international 
context,  medical  fees  had  increased  in  the  1970s  and  the  1980s, 
and  government  compensation  rates  had  not  kept  pace.  Rates 
increased  by  25  percent  in  1986,  but  not  enough  according  to  some 
critics.  Those  who  pressed  for  government  relief  believed  it  neces- 
sary even  though  public  medical  care,  which  constituted  the  bulk 
of  medical  care  in  Finland,  was  already  highly  subsidized  and  hence 
rather  cheap  compared  with  many  other  countries. 

Unemployment  Insurance 

The  Unemployment  Security  Act  of  1984  reformed  the  unem- 
ployment assistance  system  that  had  been  gradually  worked  out 
to  dead  with  the  persistent  problem  of  unemployment  in  Finland 
(see  Employment,  ch.  3).  The  act  arranged  for  coverage  of  all 
unemployed  between  the  ages  of  seventeen  and  sixty-four,  resident 
in  Finland,  whose  income  came  from  wages  earned  doing  work 
for  another  person  or  legal  entity.  A  person  had  to  be  in  need  to 
receive  payments  under  the  terms  of  the  act  and  could  be  disquali- 
fied because  of  a  spouse's  earnings.  The  self-employed,  full-time 
students,  and  people  receiving  pensions  or  maternity  allowances 
were  not  eligible,  nor  were  those  who  were  unemployed  because 
of  illness,  injury,  or  handicap,  or  who  had  quit  work  voluntarily. 


123 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


who  had  lost  work  because  of  labor  disputes,  or  who  had  refused 
to  accept  employment. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  those  eligible  for  unemployment  benefits 
received  them  in  two  ways.  A  basic  daily  allowance  of  Fmk70  went 
to  any  person  looking  for  employment.  This  2dlowance  was  means- 
tested,  and  the  income  of  a  spouse  could  disqualify  a  potential 
beneficiary.  The  allowance  lasted  as  long  as  the  recipient  was 
unemployed.  Those  unemployed  who  were  members  of  an  unem- 
ployment fund  (80  percent  of  Finns  were)  and  who  had  worked 
for  at  least  twenty- six  weeks  in  the  preceding  two  years  were  eligi- 
ble for  more  substantial  benefits  amounting  to  the  daily  basic 
allowance  plus  45  percent  of  the  difference  between  their  daily 
wage  and  the  basic  allowance.  After  100  days  the  payment  was 
reduced  by  20  percent.  Beneficiaries  of  the  income-related  allow- 
ance could  receive  it  for  500  days  in  a  4-year  period.  Workers  in 
their  late  fifties  and  older  who  had  been  unable  to  find  work  could 
be  granted  an  unemployment  pension  equal  to  a  disability  pen- 
sion until  they  reached  the  age  when  they  would  be  eligible  for  an 
old-age  pension.  Unemployment  benefits  were  administered  by  the 
Social  Security  Institute.  The  basic  allowance  was  completely 
financed  by  the  state.  Employers  and  the  state  funded  equal  shares 
of  95  percent  of  the  income-related  payments  and  the  beneficiary 
was  responsible  for  the  remaining  5  percent. 

Workmen's  Compensation 

An  employee  who  suffered  work-related  injuries  was  financi2dly 
protected  through  payments  that  covered  mediccd  and  rehabilita- 
tion expenses  and  fuUy  matched  his  or  her  wages.  If  injuries  resulted 
in  permanent  disability,  the  worker  could  receive  payments  amount- 
ing to  85  percent  of  his  or  her  wages  for  total  disability.  Survivors 
were  eligible  for  pensions,  as  well  as  a  sizable  funeral  grant.  This 
compulsory  program  was  entirely  funded  by  the  employer. 

Income  Security  Classified  as  Welfare 

In  addition  to  the  above  benefits  that  were  classified  as  income 
security  in  the  form  of  social  insurance,  there  were  income  security 
programs  classified  as  welfare.  One  of  the  differences  between  the 
two  classes  of  social  programs  was  that  the  welfare  measures  were 
financed  mostly  through  taxes,  whereas  social  insurance  programs 
were  paid  for  by  employers  and  employees.  This  second  category 
of  income  security  also  consisted  of  payments  to  those  eligible.  The 
most  important  and  expensive  class  of  these  benefits  involved  pay- 
ments to  families  with  children.  Other  programs  assisted  those  who 
had  suffered  war  injuries  and  their  dependents,  provided  financial 


124 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


aid  to  those  called  up  for  military  service  and  to  their  families,  made 
payments  to  the  handicapped  that  helped  them  earn  their  living, 
and  provided  living  allowances  that  were  the  last  resort  of  those 
unable  to  earn  their  way. 

Family  Aid 

Financial  aid  to  families  with  children  came  in  the  form  of  child 
allowances,  child  care  and  maintenance  allowances,  and  materni- 
ty benefits.  Child  allowances  dated  from  the  1930s,  and  they  were 
one  of  the  oldest  parts  of  the  welfare  system.  The  law  in  force  in 
the  late  1980s  was  the  Child  Allowance  Act  of  1948,  which  arranged 
for  payments  to  parents  for  all  children  under  the  age  of  sixteen 
and  resident  in  Finland,  regardless  of  the  wealth  or  nationality  of 
the  parents.  By  the  mid-1980s,  payments  for  the  first  child  were 
a  little  more  than  Fmk2,000  a  year,  with  payments  increasing  to 
Fmk4,800  for  the  fifth  and  additional  children.  Another  payment 
of  about  Fmk  1,200  was  made  for  children  under  the  age  of  three. 
Child-care  allowances  had  been  paid  since  the  1970s  to  those  par- 
ents who  stayed  at  home  to  care  for  small  children  or  who  had  en- 
gaged someone  else  to  do  so.  A  child  maintenance  allowance  of 
as  much  as  approximately  Fmk400  a  month  was  paid  when  a  court- 
ordered  maintenance  payment  for  a  child  of  divorced  parents  was 
not  being  paid.  A  maternity  benefit,  based  on  legislation  of  the 
1930s,  was  paid  for  each  pregnancy.  It  came  either  as  a  grant  of 
about  FmkSOO  or  as  a  much  more  valuable  set  of  materials  needed 
to  tend  a  child.  It  was  withheld  if  the  mother  did  not  visit  a  clinic 
by  the  fifth  month  of  pregnancy. 

Welfare  Services 

In  addition  to  the  above  measures  that  involved  financial  pay- 
ments to  achieve  social  ends,  the  system  of  social  care  provided 
welfare  services.  By  the  mid-1980s,  some  90,000  state  and  local 
employees  were  using  about  5  percent  of  Finland's  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  to  deliver  a  wide  variety  of  social 
services  under  the  overall  direction  of  the  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs 
and  Health.  The  expansion  of  the  welfare  system  in  the  1960s  and 
the  1970s  had  caused  the  number  of  social  workers  roughly  to  tri- 
ple between  1970  and  1985.  Since  1981  workers  entering  the  field 
had  been  required  to  have  university  training. 

National  government  subsidies  of  from  30  to  60  percent  of  costs 
had  the  goal  of  making  social  services  uniform  throughout  the  coun- 
try, so  that  residents  of  even  the  most  isolated  community  had  the 
same  range  of  services  as  were  offered  in  Helsinki,  though  this  aim 
was  not  always  met.  Social  services  were  usually  free,  and  they 


125 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


were  available  to  anyone  who  wanted  them,  irrespective  of  the 
recipient's  income.  Information  furnished  to  social  workers  was 
confidential  and  could  not  be  released,  even  to  another  govern- 
ment agency.  The  ultimate  aim  of  welfare  services  was  to  increase 
the  quality  of  life  and  the  independence  of  the  client  so  that  wel- 
fare services  were  no  longer  needed. 

The  Social  Welfare  Act  of  1982  replaced  some  older  laws;  it 
charged  local  government  with  providing  such  social  services  as 
general  and  family  counseling  and  with  making  housing  available 
to  those  needing  it,  most  notably  the  aged  and  the  infirm,  trou- 
bled youth,  and  alcoholics.  The  law  detailed  local  responsibilities 
for  assigning  specialists  to  assist  persons  living  at  home  but  no  longer 
fully  able  to  take  care  of  themselves  and  for  maintaining  institu- 
tions for  persons,  be  they  aged,  mentally  handicapped,  or  addict- 
ed, whose  afflictions  were  so  serious  that  they  could  no  longer  live 
at  home. 

Child-Care  Services 

A  law  with  far-reaching  effects  was  the  1973  Child  Day  Care 
Act,  which  stipulated  that  all  local  governments  were  to  provide 
good  child  day  care  for  all  families  that  desired  it.  The  care  for 
children  up  to  seven  years  of  age  could  be  given  either  in  day-care 
centers,  sometimes  private  but  generally  run  by  local  governments, 
or  by  accredited  baby-sitters,  either  at  the  child's  home  or  outside 
it.  Although  the  number  of  places  for  day  care  had  more  than  dou- 
bled to  100,000  by  the  mid-1980s,  it  would  have  had  to  double 
again  to  meet  total  needs.  A  1985  law  set  the  goal  of  being  able 
to  allow,  by  1990,  all  parents  of  children  up  to  the  age  of  three 
the  choice  between  home-care  payments  or  a  place  for  their  child 
in  a  day-care  center.  One  parent  could  also  take  unpaid  employ- 
ment leave  until  the  child's  third  birthday.  The  Child  Welfare  Act 
of  1983  enjoined  local  governments  to  look  after  children,  and  it 
empowered  them  to  take  a  variety  of  measures  if  a  child  was  being 
seriously  neglected  or  abused.  In  the  mid-1980s,  about  2  percent 
of  Finnish  children  were  affected  by  this  law.  Another  1983  law 
made  the  corporal  punishment  of  children  illegal,  as  it  was  in  the 
other  Nordic  countries. 

Services  for  the  Disabled 

The  Welfare  of  the  Disabled  Act  of  1946  set  the  responsibilities 
for  treatment  of  the  physically  handicapped.  The  institutions  that 
offered  housing,  occupational  training,  sheltered  working  environ- 
ments, and  physical  rehabilitation  were  overseen  by  the  National 
Board  of  Social  Welfare,  while  about  a  score  of  schools  for 


126 


View  of  Turku  (Abo),  Finland's  third  largest  city,  with  the  Aura  River 
in  the  foreground;  in  the  background,  Turku  Cathedral 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 


127 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


handicapped  children  unable  to  attend  ordinary  schools  was 
supervised  by  the  National  Board  of  Schools.  Special  equipment, 
like  prostheses,  was  supplied  at  no  cost,  as  were  such  services  as 
the  adaptation  of  living  areas.  In  the  late  1980s,  there  were  some 
30,000  mentally  handicapped  Finns,  10,000  of  whom  received  wel- 
fare ranging  from  living  accommodations  in  an  institution  to  day- 
center  care  or  jobs  in  sheltered  workshops.  There  were  not  enough 
places  to  accommodate  gJl  the  mentally  disabled  properly,  so  some 
were  placed  in  private  homes  or  in  retirement  homes. 

Services  for  Substance  Abusers 

The  Welfare  for  Intoxicant  Abusers  Act  of  1985  dealt  mainly 
with  alcoholism,  as  it  was  the  only  serious  problem  of  substance 
abuse  in  Finland  in  the  late  1980s.  Finnish  society  had  traditionally 
not  seen  alcohol  as  a  part  of  daily  life,  but  rather  as  something  con- 
sumed on  special  occasions  and  then  to  the  point  of  intoxication. 
Medical  evidence  of  this  harmful  habit  was  that  the  Finnish  inci- 
dence of  death  by  acute  alcohol  poisoning  was  seven  times  that  of 
Sweden  and  twenty  times  that  of  Denmark.  Because  of  its  trou- 
bled relationship  with  alcohol,  the  country  enforced  prohibition  from 
1919  to  1931.  A  later  measure  against  alcohol  consumption  was 
a  1976  law  that  banned  liquor  advertisements  in  most  publications. 
Another  measure  increased  the  cost  of  alcohol  by  taixing  it  heavily, 
so  much  so  that  by  the  mid-1980s  liquor  taxes  were  an  important 
source  of  state  revenues. 

In  the  1980s,  there  were  still  many  abstainers  in  Finland  who 
had  moral  objections  to  alcohol  use,  in  contrast  to  the  small  minority 
of  drinkers  who  accounted  for  more  than  half  of  total  national  con- 
sumption. In  the  late  1960s,  a  relaxation  of  the  rules  for  the  pur- 
chase of  alcohol  had  as  its  goal  a  lessening  of  drink's  glamorous 
appeal  because  it  was,  in  a  sense,  forbidden.  This  policy  may  have 
backfired  when  sales  of  beer  in  grocery  stores  and  the  availabil- 
ity of  hard  liquor  at  more  restaurants  caused  alcohol  consumption 
to  more  than  double  within  a  decade.  Since  the  mid-1970s,  however, 
analysts  of  Finnish  alcohol  use  have  seen  consumption  rates  level 
off  and  drinking  habits  become  more  moderate.  Although  the  num- 
ber of  abstainers  had  dropped  sharply  in  the  postwar 
period,  causing  some  sociologists  to  refer  to  Finns  who  became 
adults  in  the  1950s  and  the  1960s  as  ''the  wet  generation,"  alco- 
hol was  gradually  coming  to  take  a  more  ordinary  place  in  every- 
day life. 

The  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health  had  a  special  depart- 
ment concerned  with  substance  abuse,  the  Department  of  Tem- 
perance and  Alcohol  Policy,  that  formulated  welfare  plans  and 


128 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


directed  the  State  Alcohol  Monopoly  responsible  for  the  manufac- 
ture, importation,  and  sale  of  alcohol.  Local  authorities  provided 
a  variety  of  facilities  for  alcoholics — including  clinics,  half-way 
houses,  and  emergency  housing  open  twenty-four  hours  a  day  that 
offered  withdrawal  treatments.  When  necessary,  alcoholics  could 
be  confined  against  their  will,  but  this  practice  was  less  common 
in  the  late  1980s  than  it  had  been  previously.  State  welfare  was 
supplemented  by  private  and  voluntary  associations,  such  as 
Alcoholics  Anonymous. 

Health  System 

By  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  Finns  enjoyed  a  standard  of 
health  fully  comparable  to  that  of  other  highly  developed  countries. 
If  health  standards  did  not  match  those  of  Finland's  Nordic  neigh- 
bors in  all  areas,  it  was  because  Sweden,  Denmark,  and  Norway 
were  the  world's  leaders  in  health  care.  Finland  had  made  remark- 
able progress,  however,  and  was  rapidly  catching  up.  In  one  major 
area,  the  prevention  of  infant  mortality,  Finland  led  the  world  in 
the  mid-1980s:  it  had  the  world's  lowest  infant  mortality  rate. 

Development  of  the  Health  System 

Since  becoming  an  independent  state  in  1917,  Finland  has 
managed  to  deal  with  the  "traditional"  health  problems.  The  most 
important  cause  of  death  in  the  nineteenth  century,  pulmonary 
tuberculosis,  was  brought  under  control  by  means  of  a  network 
of  tuberculosis  hospitals  built  between  the  world  wars.  Smallpox 
and  pneumonia  have  also  ceased  to  be  serious  problems.  With  the 
aid  of  the  vaccination  law  passed  in  1952,  the  fight  against  com- 
municable diseases  was  largely  won.  In  1980,  for  example,  there 
were  no  deaths  from  common  diseases  of  this  type.  By  the 
mid-1980s,  no  cases  of  diphtheria  had  been  registered  in  Finland 
for  several  decades,  and,  with  the  exception  of  a  mini-epidemic 
of  seven  cases  in  1983-84,  poliomyelitis  also  had  disappeared.  An 
emphasis  on  hospital  construction  in  the  1950s  and  1960s  brought 
the  ratio  of  hospital  beds  per  capita  up  to  international  norms,  and 
new  medical  training  centers  more  than  doubled  the  number  of 
physicians  between  1970  and  the  mid-1980s  (see  table  11,  Appen- 
dix A).  The  passage  of  the  Sickness  Insurance  Act  in  1963  and  fre- 
quent expansion  of  its  coverage  meant  that  good  medical  care  was 
available  to  everyone.  Later  legislative  measures,  such  as  the 
Primary  Health  Care  Act  of  1972,  or  the  Mental  Health  Act  of 
1978,  aimed  at  moving  health  care  from  large  centers,  increasing 
the  amount  of  preventive  treatment  at  smaller  local  facilities,  and 
favoring  out-patient  care  when  possible.  Finnish  health  authorities 


129 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

believed,  even  in  the  late  1980s,  that  care  of  this  kind  could  be  more 
flexible,  humane,  and  effective  and  could  also  check  cost  increases. 
Despite  this  policy  innovation,  however,  social  expenditures  on 
health  had  increased  ten-fold  in  real  terms  since  the  early  1950s. 

Organization  of  the  Health  System 

Health  care  was  directed  by  the  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and 
Health  and  was  administered  by  the  National  Board  of  Health. 
In  accordance  with  government  practices,  the  ministry  decided  poli- 
cy, and  the  national  board  determined  how  it  would  be  admini- 
stered. Actual  delivery  of  care  was  the  responsibility  of  local  govern- 
ment, especially  after  the  Primary  Health  Care  Act  of  1972,  which 
stipulated  that  the  basis  of  medical  treatment  should  be  the  care 
offered  in  local  health  clinics.  Previously,  the  emphasis  had  been 
on  care  from  large  regional  hospitals. 

The  1972  law  resulted  in  the  creation  of  about  200  local  health 
centers  each  of  which  served  a  minimum  of  10,000  persons.  As 
municipalities  varied  greatly  in  size,  small  ones  had  to  unite  with 
others  to  form  health  centers,  while  about  half  the  centers  were 
operated  by  a  single  municipality.  Centers  did  not  necessarily  consist 
of  a  single  building,  but  encompassed  all  the  health  facilities  in  the 
health  center  district.  With  the  exception  of  some  sparsely  settled 
regions,  people  were  usually  within  twenty-five  kilometers  of  the 
center  charged  with  their  care. 

A  basic  aim  of  the  1972  law  was  to  give  all  Finns  equal  access 
to  health  care,  regardless  of  their  income  or  where  they  lived. 
Because  most  services  of  health  centers  were  free,  subsidies  from 
the  national  government  were  required  to  augment  the  financial 
resources  of  municipalities.  The  subsidies  varied  according  to  the 
wealth  of  the  municipality  and  ranged  roughly  from  30  to  65  per- 
cent of  costs.  By  the  mid-1980s,  about  40  percent  of  the  money 
spent  on  health  went  for  primary  care,  compared  with  10  percent 
in  1972. 

Health  care  centers  were  responsible  for  routine  care  such  as 
health  counseling,  examinations,  and  screening  for  communi- 
cable diseases;  they  also  provided  school  health  services,  home  care, 
dental  work,  and  child  and  maternal  care.  Most  health  centers  had 
at  least  three  physicians  and  additional  staff  at  a  ratio  of  about  eleven 
per  physician.  Because  of  the  high  level  of  their  training,  nurses 
performed  many  services  done  by  physicians  in  other  countries. 
Most  centers  had  midwives,  whose  high  competence,  combined 
with  an  extensive  program  of  prenatal  care,  made  possible  Fin- 
land's extremely  low  infant  mortality  rate  in  the  mid-1980s,  the 
world's  best  at  6.5  deaths  per  1,000  births. 


130 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Once  it  was  established  that  a  health  problem  could  not  be  treated 
adequately  at  a  center,  patients  were  directed  to  hospitals,  either 
to  one  of  about  thirty  local  hospitals  with  some  degree  of  speciali- 
zation, or  to  one  of  about  twenty  hospitals,  five  of  which  were 
university  teaching  hospitals,  that  could  offer  highly  specialized  care. 
In  addition,  there  were  institutions  with  a  single  concern,  such  as 
the  sixty  psychiatric  hospitals,  and  others  that  dealt  with  orthopedics, 
epilepsy,  rheumatism,  or  plastic  surgery.  Given  the  great  drop  in 
the  incidence  of  tuberculosis  in  Finland,  the  country's  dozen 
sanatoria  were  gradually  being  taken  over  for  other  purposes. 
Hospitals  were  usually  operated  by  federations  of  municipalities, 
as  their  maintenance  was  beyond  the  power  of  most  single  munic- 
ipalities. By  the  mid-1980s,  the  country's  public  hospitals  had  about 
50,000  beds,  and  its  40-odd  private  hospitals  had  roughly  3,000. 
There  were  another  20,000  beds  for  patients  at  health  centers, 
homes  for  the  elderly,  and  other  welfare  institutions. 

Health  Problems 

By  the  late  1980s,  Finland's  health  problems  were  similar  to  those 
affecting  other  advanced  countries.  The  most  common  causes  of 
death  in  Finland  were,  first,  cardiovascular  diseases,  followed  by 
neoplasms  (malignant  and  benign),  accidents,  poisonings,  trauma 
from  external  causes  (including  suicides),  and,  lastly,  diseases  of 
the  respiratory  system  (see  table  12,  Appendix  A).  The  mortality 
rate  from  cardiovascular  diseases  was  among  the  world's  highest 
for  both  sexes,  but  it  was  especially  high  for  middle-aged  msiles. 
A  national  diet  rich  in  fats  was  seen  by  medical  specialists  as  a  cause 
of  the  prevalence  of  coronary  illnesses. 

Despite  its  location  on  the  periphery  of  Europe,  Finland  was  also 
affected  by  the  spread  of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS),  but  not  to  a  serious  degree.  As  of  late  1988,  only  32  cases 
of  AIDS  had  been  reported,  and  222  persons  had  been  found  to 
be  infected  with  the  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV),  al- 
though health  officials  believed  there  might  be  as  many  as  500  HIV- 
positive  cases  in  cdl  of  Finland.  Reasons  for  the  slight  presence  of 
this  health  problem  were  the  low  frequency  of  drug  use  and  prosti- 
tution, an  aggressive  and  frank  public  education  campaign,  and 
the  trust  Finns  felt  for  the  national  health  system,  which  led  them 
to  adopt  practices  it  recommended. 

The  most  striking  of  all  Finnish  health  problems  was  the  high 
average  mortality  rate  for  males  once  they  reached  adulthood,  which 
contributed  to  an  average  longevity  in  the  mid-1980s  of  only  70. 1 
years  compared  with  73.6  years  for  Swedish  males.  In  the  second 
half  of  the  1970s,  Finnish  males  over  the  age  of  twenty  were 


131 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

one-third  more  likely  to  die  by  their  sixty-fifth  birthday  than  their 
Swedish  neighbors.  Cardiovascular  diseases  struck  Finnish  men 
twice  as  often  as  Swedish  men.  The  three  other  chief  causes  of  death 
were  respiratory  illnesses  at  twice  the  Swedish  rate,  lung  cancer 
at  three  times  the  Swedish  rate,  and  accidental  or  violent  death 
at  a  frequency  50  percent  higher  than  the  Swedish  figure.  Health 
authorities  have  attributed  the  high  mortality  rates  of  the  Finnish 
male  to  diet,  excessive  use  of  tobacco  and  alcohol,  disruption  of 
communities  through  migration,  and  a  tradition  of  high-risk 
behavior  that  is  particularly  marked  in  working-class  men  in  eastern 
Finland. 

Mortality  rates  for  Finnish  women,  with  the  exception  of  women 
over  sixty- five,  compared  well  with  those  of  the  other  Nordic  coun- 
tries. A  reason  for  this  discrepancy  between  Finnish  and  other  Nor- 
dic older  women  was  the  higher  Finnish  incidence  of  coronary 
problems,  which  occur  later  in  women  than  in  men.  In  the 
mid-1980s,  Finnish  women  lived  an  average  of  78.1  years,  com- 
pared with  79.6  years  for  Swedish  women.  Except  for  coronary 
illnesses,  of  which  Finnish  women  died  50  percent  more  often  than 
their  Swedish  counterparts,  the  other  causes  of  Finnish  female  mor- 
tality matched  those  of  Sweden.  In  some  cases,  cancer  and  respira- 
tory diseases  for  example,  Finnish  women  had  an  even  lower  rate 
of  incidence. 

National  efforts  to  improve  living  habits  have  included  campaigns 
against  smoking,  restraints  on  the  consumption  of  alcohol,  and  bet- 
ter health  education  in  schools.  One  program  that  has  been  widely 
studied  by  international  health  officials  was  one  implemented  in 
the  province  of  Pohjois-Karjala  that  aimed  at  reforming  dietary 
habits  in  a  region  particularly  hard  hit  by  coronary  iUnesses.  Fin- 
land was  also  a  participant  in  the  World  Health  Organization's 
program  Health  for  All  by  the  Year  2000  and  was  its  European 
reporting  nation. 

Living  Conditions 

By  the  1980s,  Finland  enjoyed  one  of  the  highest  living  stan- 
dards in  the  world.  It  ranked  eighth  in  the  world  with  regard  to 
per  capita  GDP,  just  behind  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
(West  Germany)  and  slightly  ahead  of  Canada.  When  measured 
against  other  countries,  it  almost  invariably  ranked  among  the 
world's  best,  whether  economic,  social,  medical,  educational,  or 
political  criteria  were  being  applied.  Finns  were  as  surprised  as  they 
were  pleased  by  this  excellence,  because  for  much  of  its  history  Fin- 
land had  been  poor  and  backward.  Evidence  of  this  could  be  found 


132 


View  of  Tapiola,  a  planned  community  outside  of  Helsinki 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

in  the  national  anthem,  which  declared  that  Finland  would  always 
be  poor. 

However  weahhy  Finland  had  become  since  the  1960s,  observ- 
ers noted  some  shortcomings.  In  addition  to  the  problem  of  rela- 
tively high  mortality  and  the  need  for  a  more  comprehensive 
child-care  system,  Finland  faced  serious  environmental  issues. 
Another  long-standing  problem  was  the  standard  of  housing. 
Although  improvements  had  occurred  since  the  1950s,  thirty  years 
later  Finns  were  still  not  so  well  housed  as  their  Nordic  neighbors. 

Protection  of  the  Environment 

Although  Finland  had  a  very  low  population  density  and  was 
famed  for  its  many  areas  of  nearly  untouched  nature,  it  had  not 
been  spared  environmental  pollution.  Some  of  this  came  from  neigh- 
boring countries,  such  as  the  dose  of  radiation  it  received  after  the 
accident  at  the  Chernobyl  Nuclear  Power  Plant  in  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion in  1985.  In  this  case,  there  was  little  damage  because  the  radi- 
ation fell  too  far  south  to  harm  reindeer  herds  and  fell  too  early 
to  contaminate  grasses  and  vegetables  that  have  a  late  growing  sea- 
son because  of  Finland's  long  winter. 

Domestic  sources  also  contributed  significantly  to  the  country's 
problems  with  environmental  pollution.  The  exceptionally  strong 
growth  rate  of  an  economy  based  to  a  considerable  degree  on 


133 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

energy-intensive  industries  was  a  factor,  as  were  the  fertilizer- 
dependent  agricultural  sector  and  the  wood-processing  plants  that, 
between  them,  contributed  much  to  the  pollution  of  Finnish  rivers 
and  groundwater.  By  the  1980s,  Finland  registered  considerably 
higher  sulfur  and  nitrogen  emissions  than  other  West  European 
and  Nordic  countries,  and  its  discharge  of  oxidizable  matter  into 
water  was  three  times  the  average  of  the  members  of  the  Organi- 
sation for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD — 
see  Glossary). 

Finnish  efforts  to  protect  the  environment  began  in  the  1920s 
with  the  Nature  Conservation  Act  of  1923,  which  allowed  the 
establishment  of  nature  preserves  if  they  were  needed.  Since  then 
there  have  been  many  laws  covering  different  aspects  of  environ- 
mental protection,  including  water  purity,  control  of  poisons  and 
pesticides,  establishment  of  an  oil  pollution  fund,  waste  manage- 
ment, prevention  of  marine  and  air  pollution,  and  reduction  of 
noise. 

An  attempt  to  protect  the  environment  more  thoroughly  was  evi- 
dent in  the  formation  of  a  ministry  specifically  pledged  to  this  task. 
Established  in  1983,  the  Ministry  of  Environment  had  four  depart- 
ments, employing  about  250  persons  in  all.  One  department  dealt 
with  administrative  matters,  while  the  other  three  were  concerned 
with  environmental  protection  and  nature  conservation,  physical 
planning  and  building,  and  housing.  In  1986  the  National  Board 
of  Waters  with  its  1 ,400  employees  was  renamed  the  National  Board 
of  Waters  and  the  Environment  and  was  placed  under  the  new 
ministry. 

In  the  mid- 1 980s,  Finns  were  concerned  about  the  environment, 
and  a  study  found  that  only  1 1  percent  of  them  would  place  eco- 
nomic growth  above  protection  of  the  environment.  Many  believed 
ecological  conditions  were  worsening.  A  1983  poll  found  that  only 
31  percent  of  those  questioned — compared  with  57  percent  in 
1973 — believed  their  country's  environment  to  be  very  good  or 
excellent.  Another  indication  of  Finns'  concerns  was  the  birth  in 
the  early  1980s  of  a  new  political  party,  the  Greens,  which  was 
remarkably  successful  in  elections  (see  Smaller  Parties  and  the 
Greens,  ch.  4).  Commitment  to  pollution  control  also  was  seen  in 
the  portion  of  research  money  going  to  environmental  research, 
which  compared  well  with  that  spent  by  other  countries.  Despite 
these  measures,  there  were  observers  in  the  late  1980s  who  con- 
tended that  Finnish  efforts  in  this  area  needed  further  improvement. 

An  OECD  study  published  in  1988  held  that,  despite  improve- 
ments, Finland  still  did  not  have  an  adequate  environmental  pro- 
gram. There  was  still  no  single  law  relating  to  the  environment. 


134 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


and  different  ministries  often  did  not  consult  sufficiently  with  one 
another  about  the  ecological  impact  of  their  plans.  Despite  the 
existence  of  excellent  statistics  about  damage  to  the  environment, 
decision  makers  were  often  not  well  informed  about  them.  Also 
lacking,  according  to  the  OECD  report,  was  a  sufficient  assess- 
ment, when  making  plans  for  economic  development,  of  the  real 
costs  of  pollution.  Recommended  for  a  more  economical  defense 
of  the  environment  were  an  exact  consideration  of  these  costs  and 
an  increased  use  of  the  "polluter  pays"  and  "user  fees"  princi- 
ples. The  report  noted,  too,  that  many  local  authorities  lacked  the 
expertise  to  deal  properly  with  ecological  decisions;  moreover,  be- 
cause they  were  suspicious  of  the  power  of  provincial-level  and 
national-level  officials,  they  were  reluctant  to  cooperate  fully  with 
them. 

Housing 

As  part  of  its  overcdl  responsibility  to  supervise  the  nation's 
environment,  the  Ministry  of  Environment  was  charged  with  over- 
seeing what  kinds  of  buildings  and  housing  Finns  worked  in  and 
lived  in,  arranging  remedies  for  existing  deficiencies,  and  guaran- 
teeing adequate  conditions  in  the  future.  Two  of  the  ministry's  four 
departments,  the  Physical  Planning  and  Building  Department  and 
the  Housing  Department,  were  created  specificsdly  for  these  tasks. 
In  addition,  the  National  Board  of  Housing,  which  had  been  created 
in  1966  to  organize  the  state's  administration  of  housing,  was  made 
subordinate  to  the  ministry  in  1986. 

Efforts  to  improve  the  housing  of  workers  began  in  the  nineteenth 
century,  as  did  arrangements  for  low-interest  mortgages.  The  1920s 
saw  the  passage  of  the  Housing  Corporation  Act  and  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Housing  Mortgage  Bank.  It  was  only  after  World 
War  II,  however,  that  significant  measures  were  undertaken  to  sub- 
sidize housing  through  what  is  known  as  Arava  legislation.  These 
laws  were  brought  together  in  1953  by  the  Housing  Production 
Act,  which  became  the  basis  of  housing  policy  and  which  helped 
to  foster  the  tremendous  construction  surge  of  the  next  two  decades. 

By  the  1980s,  it  was  estimated  that  about  75  percent  of  Finnish 
residential  dwellings  of  all  types  had  been  constructed  since  World 
War  II.  For  some  types  of  dwellings  the  figure  was  even  higher. 
For  example,  some  70  percent  of  apartments  were  built  after  1960. 
Migration,  whether  voluntary  or  not,  and  an  upsurge  in  popula- 
tion growth  had  made  this  construction  necessary.  Population  move- 
ments during  the  economic  boom  caused  the  first  half  of  the  1970s 
to  be  the  period  of  peak  construction,  when  as  many  as  70,000  units 
were  built  in  a  single  year. 


135 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

By  the  first  half  of  the  1980s,  about  48,000  units  were  built 
annually.  In  addition  to  a  decline  in  building  activity,  the  kinds 
of  dwellings  constructed  changed.  In  the  economic  boom  years, 
about  two- thirds  of  new  dwellings  were  apartments,  and  the 
remainder  were  free-standing  houses  or  row  houses.  By  1980  the 
ratio  was  reversed.  In  addition,  by  the  1980s  much  construction 
work  was  for  renovation,  and  government  plans  called  for  the  num- 
ber of  buildings  restored  each  year  to  climb  from  15,000  in  1980 
to  60,000  by  the  end  of  the  1990s. 

The  construction  boom  meant  that  Finns  were  housed  better  than 
before.  The  number  of  dwelling  units  increased  from  1.2  million 
in  1960  to  1.8  million  in  1980  and  gave  them  more  room.  Finnish 
dwellings  were  still  rather  small,  however.  In  the  1980s,  their  aver- 
age size  was  sixty-nine  square  meters,  nine  square  meters  more 
than  in  1970.  Much  poor  standard  housing  had  disappeared  dur- 
ing the  boom  years.  The  new  dwellings  had  modern  conveniences; 
by  1980  nearly  three-quarters  of  them — compared  with  only  one- 
half  a  decade  earlier — were  fully  equipped  with  hot  water,  indoor 
plumbing,  central  heating,  and  sewer  connections.  Although  Fin- 
nish housing  was  still  somewhat  poorer  than  that  of  the  other  Nor- 
dic countries,  it  ranked  well  by  world  standards. 

About  60  percent  of  Finns  owned  their  dwellings,  and  Finns 
spent,  on  the  average,  about  18  percent  of  their  income  on  hous- 
ing. Government  housing  allowances  helped  people  of  low  income 
to  keep  housing  expenditures  within  10  to  20  percent  of  this  income. 
Government  housing  aid  came  in  a  number  of  forms,  and  it  helped 
people  in  all  income  brackets.  Housing  allowances  were  paid  to 
low-income  groups  and  to  pensioners  living  either  in  their  own 
homes  or  in  rental  units.  Low-interest  loans  were  available  to  peo- 
ple earning  modest  incomes  who  desired  to  own  their  own  homes. 
Better-off  Finns  benefited  from  tax  relief  if  they  had  mortgages. 

Not  all  government  housing  policies  were  so  popular  as  subsi- 
dies, low-interest  loans,  and  tax  relief,  for  some  had  unfortunate 
results.  The  housing  program's  most  serious  failure  was  seen  in 
the  often  sterile  and  boring  apartment  house  complexes  and  even 
whole  suburban  developments  and  towns  that  were  designed  and 
built  in  the  postwar  period  to  meet  pressing  housing  needs.  Some 
planned  towns  were  internationally  famed  for  the  beauty  of  their 
design.  An  example  was  Tapiola,  located  on  the  outskirts  of  Hel- 
sinki. Many  others,  however,  provided  an  ugly  and  inhumane 
environment  for  those  obliged  to  live  in  them.  Often  situated  far 
from  needed  services  and  lacking  softening  amenities,  the  bleak 
dormitory  villages  were  desolate  shelter  for  newly  uprooted  migrants 
from  the  countryside,  and  they  fostered  antisocial  behavior,  family 


136 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

problems,  and  illnesses.  In  later  decades,  authorities  applied 
resources  to  these  ill-conceived  residential  areas  with  the  hope  of 
making  them  more  hospitable. 

Another  problem,  less  serious,  was  a  shortage  of  rental  units. 
Some  observers  held  that  state  rent-control  policies  had  reduced 
the  profits  earned  by  landlords  and  hence  had  caused  a  scarcity 
of  rental  properties.  The  lack  of  available  rental  housing  particu- 
larly affected  young  people,  generciUy  not  yet  able  to  purchase  their 
own  homes. 

*     *  * 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  there  was  no  single  scholarly  work  in 
English  that  treated  Finnish  society  as  a  whole.  A  number  of  Brit- 
ish works  from  the  1960s  and  the  1970s  treat  many  aspects  of  Fin- 
nish society,  but  they  are  out  of  date,  and  they  vary  considerably 
in  quality.  Of  these  books,  the  most  readily  available  and  useful 
is  Finland:  An  Introduction,  edited  by  Sylvie  Nickels  and  others.  The 
1973  version  of  this  work  is  available  in  an  edition  published  in 
the  United  States.  Patricia  Slade  Lander's  In  the  Shadow  of  the  Fac- 
tory: Social  Change  in  a  Finnish  Community  is  valuable,  but  it  relies 
on  fieldwork  done  in  the  late  1960s  and  the  early  1970s.  A  noted 
student  of  Finland  is  the  geographer  William  Richard  Mead,  whose 
books  Finland,  How  People  Live  in  Finland  (written  for  children).  The 
Aland  Islands  (written  with  S.  H.  Jaatinen),  and  Winter  in  Finland: 
A  Study  of  Human  Geography  (written  with  Helmer  Smeds)  all  con- 
tain much  useful  information.  Wendy  Hall's  The  Finns  and  Their 
Country  and  John  L.  Irwin's  The  Finns  and  the  Lapps  are  intelligent 
and  popular  treatments  of  Finnish  life. 

Readers  with  Swedish  could  consult  Samhdllet  Finland,  an  essay- 
length  work  dating  from  1985,  by  Finland's  renowned  sociologist, 
Erik  Allardt.  This  brief  survey  of  the  developments  that  have  trans- 
formed Finnish  society  in  the  twentieth  century  will  give  the  reader 
an  understanding  of  Finland  as  it  was  in  the  1980s.  A  festschrift 
in  his  honor.  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik 
Allardt,  contains  articles  by  leading  specialists  on  topics  such  as  the 
family  in  the  Nordic  countries,  the  premature  mortality  of  Fin- 
nish males,  social  mobility,  and  the  establishment  of  Finland's  wel- 
fare system.  This  last  subject  is  treated  at  greater  length  by  Matti 
Alestalo  and  Hannu  Uusitalo  in  their  detailed  and  sophisticated 
article  appearing  in  the  first  volume  of  the  series  Growth  to  Limits: 
The  Western  European  Welfare  States  Since  World  War  II,  edited  by  Peter 
Flora.  Matti  Alestalo' s  Structural  Change,  Classes  and  the  State:  Fin- 
land in  an  Historical  and  Comparative  Perspective  provides  a  learned 


137 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

exposition  of  the  country's  class  structure.  Nordic  Democracy,  edit- 
ed by  Erik  Allardt  and  others,  treats  Nordic  Europe  as  a  whole, 
but  it  contains  much  information  about  Finnish  society.  The 
detailed  bibliographies  accompanying  these  scholarly  works  will 
guide  the  curious  reader  further. 

Brochures  and  pamphlets  published  by  the  Finnish  government 
in  English  are  available  from  Finnish  embassies  around  the  world. 
These  publications  are  quite  informative  about  the  welfare  and  the 
education  systems,  the  role  of  women,  and  other  aspects  of  Fin- 
nish society. 

Encyclopedic  in  its  coverage  of  Finland  is  the  series  of  atlases 
published  by  the  Finnish  government's  National  Board  of  Survey. 
The  series'  excellent  maps  graphically  convey  astonishingly  detailed 
data  about  many  aspects  of  Finnish  society,  and  they  are  com- 
plemented by  expert  articles.  English  translations  of  the  articles 
appearing  in  some  of  the  atlases  are  available.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


138 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Finnish  ice-breaker  at  work 


FINLAND'S  ECONOMY  PERFORMED  WELL  during  the 
1980s,  allowing  the  Finns  to  enjoy  widespread  prosperity.  After 
suffering  the  effects  of  depression  and  war  during  the  1930s  and 
the  1940s,  the  economy  started  to  show  steady  gains  in  about  1950. 
During  the  1980s,  the  country  enjoyed  above-average  growth,  stable 
prices,  and  relatively  low  unemployment.  Nevertheless,  Finland 
did  experience  many  of  the  problems  found  elsewhere  in  the  in- 
dustrial world,  including  high  unemployment  among  youth, 
expensive  agricultural  surpluses,  and  declining  industrial  sectors. 
Moreover,  certain  aspects  of  the  country's  economic  performance, 
such  as  serious  cyclical  instability,  endemic  industrial  conflict,  and 
difficulties  in  foreign  trade,  may  have  troubled  Finland  more  than 
such  situations  disturbed  other  countries.  Despite  these  problems, 
which  required  attention  from  policy  makers  and  from  business- 
men, economists  could  point  with  pride  to  Finland's  strong  work 
ethic  and  pragmatic  tradition. 

In  a  country  lacking  many  raw  materials,  the  tenacious  Finns 
had  learned  to  make  the  most  of  scarce  natural  resources.  Although 
most  of  the  country  was  not  arable,  farmers  worked  hard  to  keep 
the  country  self-sufficient  in  staple  foods.  The  country's  forests, 
carefully  managed  to  increase  long-term  yield,  provided  raw  materi- 
als for  the  wood-processing  industries,  the  largest  earner  of  for- 
eign exchange.  Metals  and  minerals  were  scarce,  but  the  country 
had  established  competitive  enterprises  in  basic  metals  and  in  chem- 
icals. The  metalworking  industry,  developed  largely  to  meet  repa- 
rations payments  to  the  Soviet  Union,  continued  to  expand  during 
the  postwar  period.  This  industry  specialized  in  sophisticated 
products,  such  as  icebreakers  and  paper-making  machinery,  in 
which  the  Finns  enjoyed  a  comparative  advantage.  Faced  with  a 
serious  energy  shortage  after  the  oil  crisis  of  1973,  the  Finns 
embarked  on  a  comprehensive  conservation  program  and  shift- 
ed investments  toward  less  energy- intensive,  high-technology 
products. 

Effective  policies  deserved  much  of  the  credit  for  the  country's 
economic  successes.  In  the  early  years  of  the  republic,  the  govern- 
ment had  carried  out  extensive  land  reforms,  a  precondition  for 
agricultural  modernization.  State-owned  enterprises  channeled 
investments  into  key  industries,  allowing  the  country  to  process 
its  own  raw  materials.  The  crises  of  the  depression,  war,  and  recon- 
struction led  to  government  controls  that  provided  an  essential 


141 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

framework  for  production.  By  the  late  1950s,  once  wartime  bot- 
tlenecks had  been  eliminated,  the  government  chose  to  pursue  trade 
liberalization  and  deregulation.  Following  this  basic  orientation, 
Finland's  leaders  agreed  to  free  trade  in  industrial  products,  thus 
forcing  the  country's  industries  to  compete  and  to  modernize.  By 
the  late  1970s,  macroeconomic  policies  gave  priority  to  fighting 
inflation  and  to  dampening  cyclical  instability.  During  the  1980s, 
government  policies  pursued  export  competitiveness,  in  part 
through  favoring  industrial  rationalization  and  financial  deregu- 
lation. By  the  mid-1980s,  some  economists  saw  Finland  as  the  most 
capitalist  country  in  Europe. 

To  pay  for  needed  imports,  the  Finns  depended  on  export  mar- 
kets in  Western  and  in  Eastern  Europe.  To  protect  those  markets, 
Finland  had  pursued  economic  integration  with  both  Eastern  and 
Western  Europe.  The  Finns  maintained  good  commercial  relations 
with  the  Soviet  Union,  a  strategy  that  had  paid  off  handsomely 
in  the  1970s,  when  rising  petroleum  prices  increased  the  value  of 
trade  with  the  East,  compensating  Finland  for  declines  in  Western 
markets.  After  the  mid-1980s,  however,  as  world  oil  prices  declined, 
the  Finns  shifted  toward  the  West,  especiadly  toward  the  Europe- 
an Community  (EC — see  Glossary).  Although  balancing  close  eco- 
nomic relations  with  both  market-oriented  and  planned  economies 
posed  special  challenges,  Finnish  traders  proved  adept  in  both 
environments.  In  the  late  1980s,  industry  and  finance  sought  to 
build  on  earlier  successes  by  internationalizing  their  operations, 
often  in  partnership  with  foreign  firms. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  most  important  economic  challenge  was 
to  keep  both  production  costs  and  product  quality  competitive  in 
international  markets.  This  challenge  would  require  hard  work, 
as  well  as  close  cooperation  among  government,  business,  and  labor. 
The  government,  industry,  and  the  universities  needed  to  increase 
spending  on  research  and  the  development  of  new  technologies. 
The  Finns  would  also  have  to  limit  inflationary  wage  increases  and 
improve  labor  flexibility  without  worsening  labor  conflict.  Many 
economists  believed,  however,  that  the  prevailing  consensus  in  favor 
of  modernization  and  stable,  steady  growth  was  strong  enough  to 
allow  the  country  to  face  the  future  with  optimism. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

During  the  seven  decades  after  the  establishment  of  the  repub- 
lic in  1917,  Finland  made  remarkable  economic  progress.  At  the 
time  of  the  collapse  of  the  Russian  Empire  in  1917,  the  Grand 
Duchy  of  Finland  had  the  most  backward  economy  in  Nordic 
Europe.  Situated  at  the  outer  edges  of  the  spheres  of  influence  of 


142 


The  Economy 


the  major  European  industrial  powers — Britain,  Germany,  and 
Sweden — newly  independent  Finland  appeared  destined  to  remain 
a  poor,  peripheral  area.  By  the  late  1980s,  however,  the  country 
had  become  one  of  the  world's  advanced  industrial  societies,  the 
citizens  of  which  enjoyed  a  high  standard  of  living  and  the  indus- 
tries of  which  dominated  world  markets  for  significant  high- 
technology  products.  Finland  was  an  industrial  society,  but  it  was 
self-sufficient  in  staple  foods  and  produced  a  wide  range  of  goods 
and  services  for  domestic  and  export  markets.  Although  the  econ- 
omy still  depended  on  exports,  the  Finns  had  developed  markets 
in  both  Eastern  and  Western  Europe,  avoiding  excessive  depen- 
dence on  any  single  market. 

Economic  Development 

Material  conditions  were  difficult  at  the  birth  of  the  Finnish 
republic.  The  country's  industries  had  started  to  develop  after  about 
1860,  primarily  in  response  to  demand  for  lumber  from  the  more 
advanced  economies  of  Western  Europe,  but  by  1910  farmers  still 
made  up  over  70  percent  of  the  work  force.  Finland  suffered  from 
food  shortages  when  international  trade  broke  down  during  World 
War  I.  The  fledgling  metal-working  and  shipbuilding  industries 
expanded  rapidly  to  supply  Russia  during  the  early  years  of  the 
conflict,  but  the  empire's  military  collapse  and  the  Bolshevik  Revo- 
lution in  1917  eliminated  trade  with  the  East.  The  Finnish  civil 
war  cind  the  subsequent  massacres  of  the  Reds  spawned  lasting  labor 
unrest  in  factories  and  lumber  camps,  while  the  plight  of  landless 
agricultural  laborers  remained  a  pressing  social  problem  (see 
Independence  and  the  Interwar  Era,  1917-39,  ch.  1). 

During  the  immediate  postwar  years,  Finland  depended  on  aid 
from  the  United  States  to  avoid  starvation,  but  by  1922  industrial 
production  had  reached  the  prewar  level.  While  trade  with  the 
Soviet  Union  languished  for  political  reasons.  West  European, 
especially  German,  markets  for  Finnish  forest  products  soon 
reopened.  In  exchange  for  lumber,  pulp,  and  paper — which 
together  accounted  for  about  85  percent  of  exports — Finland 
obtained  needed  imports,  including  half  the  nation's  food  supply 
and  virtually  all  investment  goods. 

Despite  political  instability,  the  state  built  a  foundation  for  growth 
and  for  greater  economic  independence.  The  first  and  most 
important  step  was  an  agricultural  reform  that  redistributed  hold- 
ings of  agricultural  and  forest  land  and  strengthened  the  class  of 
smallholders  who  had  a  direct  stake  in  improving  farm  and  forest 
productivity.  The  government  also  nationalized  large  shares  of  the 
mining  and  the  wood-processing  industries.  The  subsequent  public 


143 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

investment  program  in  mines,  foundries,  wood  and  paper  mills, 
and  shipyards  improved  the  country's  ability  to  process  its  own 
raw  materials.  By  the  late  1920s,  agricultural  modernization  was 
well  under  way,  and  the  country  had  laid  the  foundations  for  future 
industrialization . 

Although  Finland  suffered  less  than  more-developed  European 
countries  during  the  Great  Depression  of  the  1930s,  the  country 
nonetheless  experienced  widespread  distress,  which  inspired  fur- 
ther government  intervention  in  the  economy.  Comprehensive  pro- 
tection of  agricultural  produce  encouraged  farmers  to  shift  from 
exportable  animal  products  to  basic  grains,  a  policy  that  kept  farm 
incomes  from  falling  as  rapidly  as  they  did  elsewhere  and  enabled 
the  country  to  feed  itself  better.  Similar  policies  spurred  produc- 
tion of  consumer  goods,  maintaining  industrial  employment.  As 
in  other  Nordic  countries,  the  central  bank  experimented  with 
Keynesian  demand-management  policies. 

In  the  1930s,  Britain  replaced  Germany  as  Finland's  main  trading 
partner.  The  two  countries  made  bilateral  agreements  that  gave 
Finnish  forest  goods  free  access  to  British  markets  and  established 
preferential  tariffs  for  British  industri2d  products  sold  to  Finland. 
Consequendy,  Finland's  largest  industry,  paper  production, 
expanded  throughout  the  depression  years  (although  falling  prices 
led  to  declining  export  revenues).  The  economic  growth  of  Fin- 
land resumed  in  1933  and  continued  until  1939. 

Production  and  employment  had  largely  recovered  from  the 
effects  of  the  depression  when  the  Winter  War  began  in  1939.  The 
struggle  marked  the  beginning  of  five  years  of  warfare  and  priva- 
tion. By  1944,  after  two  defeats  at  the  hands  of  the  Soviet  Union 
and  severe  losses  suffered  while  expelling  German  troops,  Finland's 
economy  was  nearly  exhausted.  Under  the  terms  of  the  1944 
armistice  with  the  Soviet  Union,  the  country  ceded  about  12  per- 
cent of  its  territory,  including  valuable  farmland  and  industrial 
facilities,  and  agreed  to  onerous  reparations  payments.  To  many 
Finns,  it  appeared  that  most  of  the  achievements  of  the  interwar 
years  had  been  undone  (see  World  War  II,  1939-45,  ch.  1). 

Postwar  reconstruction  proved  difficult.  Resetding  refugees  from 
the  areas  ceded  to  the  Soviet  Union  required  another  land  reform 
act,  subsidies  for  agricultural  infrastructure,  and  support  payments 
for  displaced  industrial  workers.  Reparations  deliveries  to  the  Soviet 
Union  absorbed  much  of  the  country's  export  potential.  The  need 
to  remain  politically  neutral  precluded  participation  in  the  Mar- 
shall Plan  (European  Recovery  Program),  but  Finland  arranged 
substantial  loans  from  the  United  States  Export-Import  Bank  to 
finance  expansion  in  the  forest  industries.  High  inflation  rates 


144 


The  Economy 


inherited  from  the  war  years  fed  labor  miUtancy,  which  further 
threatened  output. 

Despite  these  setbacks,  the  tenacious  Finns  soon  fought  their  way 
back  to  economic  growth.  Reparations  turned  out  to  be  a  blessing 
in  disguise — at  least  for  the  metalworking  industries,  which  sup- 
plied about  three-fourths  of  the  goods  delivered  to  the  Soviet  Union. 
In  effect,  forced  investment  in  met2dworking  laid  the  foundations 
for  Finland's  later  export  successes.  The  fulfillment  of  the  repara- 
tions payments  in  1952  symbolized  the  end  of  the  postwar  difficul- 
ties, but  the  real  turning  point  probably  came  in  about  1950,  with 
the  Korean  War  boom  in  the  West.  During  the  1950s,  the  metal- 
working  industries  continued  to  export  to  the  Soviet  Union,  a  mar- 
ket in  which  the  Finns  faced  virtually  no  competition  from  other 
Western  countries.  Extensive  borrowing  in  Western  financial 
markets — especially  in  Sweden  and  in  the  United  States — financed 
investments  in  infrastructure,  agriculture,  and  industry.  The  con- 
sumer goods  and  construction  sectors  prospered  in  the  booming 
domestic  market,  which  remained  protected  by  import  controls  until 
the  end  of  the  decade. 

From  1950  to  1974,  Finland's  gross  national  product  (GNP — 
see  Glossary)  grew  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  5.2  percent,  con- 
siderably higher  than  the  4.4  percent  average  for  members  of  the 
Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
(OECD — see  Glossary).  However,  partly  as  a  result  of  continued 
dependence  on  volatile  lumber  exports,  this  growth  was  more 
unstable  than  that  in  other  OECD  countries.  The  business  cycle 
caused  fluctuations  in  output  that  averaged  8  percent  of  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary).  Finland's  structural  trans- 
formation was  brutally  quick,  driving  workers  out  of  agriculture 
more  quickly  than  had  been  the  case  in  any  other  Western  coun- 
try. Although  manufacturing  output  increased  sharply,  many  dis- 
placed farm  workers  could  not  be  placed  in  industry.  At  the  same 
time,  Finnish  inflation,  which  tended  to  exceed  that  of  the  coun- 
try's major  trading  partners,  necessitated  regular  currency  devalu- 
ations. Yet,  despite  the  costs  of  economic  growth,  most  Finns  were 
happy  to  have  escaped  the  hardships  of  the  depression  and  the  war 
years. 

Rapid  structural  transformation  led  to  innovative  economic  poli- 
cies. During  the  1950s,  the  state  had  maintained  strict  controls  on 
many  aspects  of  economic  life,  protecting  the  country's  fragile  eco- 
nomic balance,  but  it  had  lifted  many  restrictions  by  the  end  of 
the  decade.  Moreover,  in  1957  policy  makers  chose  to  liberalize 
foreign  trade  in  industrial  goods,  strongly  influencing  future  eco- 
nomic developments.  The  achievement  of  prosperity  in  the  1960s 


145 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

made  possible  the  extension  of  the  welfare  state,  a  development 
that  did  much  to  reduce  tensions  between  workers  and  manage- 
ment (see  Finland  in  the  Era  of  Consensus,  1966-81,  ch.  1).  Fin- 
land's increased  foreign  trade  made  industrial  competitiveness  more 
important,  causing  greater  interest  in  restraining  the  inflationary 
wage-price  spiral.  Starting  in  1968,  the  government  succeeded  in 
sponsoring  regular  negotiations  on  wages,  benefits,  and  working 
conditions  (see  Human  Resources,  this  ch.).  The  political  consen- 
sus that  developed  around  incomes  settlements  helped  to  slow  in- 
flation and  to  increase  productivity.  Liberalization,  welfare 
programs,  and  incomes  policy  thus  helped  to  maintain  economic 
growth  during  the  1960s  and  facilitated  stronger  economic  rela- 
tions with  both  Eastern  and  Western  Europe. 

In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  changes  in  domestic  and  international 
economic  conditions  posed  new  challenges.  At  home,  Finland  was 
reaching  the  limits  of  extensive  economic  growth.  Expansion  was 
incorporating  ever- greater  amounts  of  raw  materials,  capital,  and 
labor  in  the  production  process.  The  economy  needed  to  shift  to 
intensive  growth  through  better  resource  management,  improved 
labor  productivity,  and  newer  technologies.  In  international  mar- 
kets, the  oil  crises  of  1973  and  1979  caused  particular  difficulties 
for  the  Finns,  who  imported  over  80  percent  of  their  primary  energy 
supplies.  The  country  did  suffer  less  than  other  West  European 
countries  from  increased  oil  prices  because  of  its  special  trading 
relationship  with  the  Soviet  Union,  which  supplied  petroleum  in 
exchange  for  Finnish  industrial  goods.  However,  recession  in 
Western  markets,  growing  technological  competition,  and  tighter 
financial  markets  made  Finland's  traditional  cycles  of  inflation  and 
devaluation  untenable.  Thus,  although  the  country  managed  to 
delay  austerity  measures  for  five  years,  in  1978  balance-of-payments 
considerations  compelled  the  government  to  introduce  a  far- 
reaching  reform  package  designed  to  ensure  the  competitiveness 
of  Finnish  industry  in  world  markets  (see  Role  of  Government, 
this  ch.). 

Although  the  austerity  package  pursued  after  1978  slowed  growth 
in  personal  consumption,  the  consensus  approach  to  wage  and 
benefit  negotiations  remained  reasonably  intact.  In  addition,  many 
Finnish  workers  proved  sufficiently  flexible  to  accept  transfers  from 
declining  sectors  to  those  in  which  the  country  enjoyed  a  compara- 
tive advantage .  As  a  result  of  competent  macroeconomic  manage- 
ment and  favorable  trading  relations  with  both  Eastern  and  Western 
Europe,  Finland  was  able  to  sustain  growth  in  GDP  at  an  average 
annual  rate  of  about  3.3  percent  from  1980  to  1986 — a  rate  well 
above  the  OECD  average. 


146 


The  Economy 


During  the  1980s,  structural  developments  in  the  Finnish  econ- 
omy paradleled  those  in  other  West  European  economies.  Although 
surplus  production  of  ainimail  products  plagued  agriculture  and  led 
to  cutbacks  in  agricultural  subsidies,  the  country  preserved  family 
farming.  Policy  makers  continued  to  monitor  forestry,  energy,  and 
minerad  resources  closely,  even  when  falling  petroleum  prices 
reduced  pressures  on  the  economy.  Industry  underwent  intensive 
restructuring,  eliminating  many  inefficient  producers  and  con- 
solidating he2dthy  enterprises.  Despite  mergers  and  rationalization, 
Finland  lost  fewer  industrial  jobs  than  most  OECD  countries,  so 
that  unemployment  was  held  below  the  double-digit  levels  com- 
mon elsewhere  on  the  continent.  Private  services,  especially  banking 
and  insurance,  expanded  more  rapidly  than  other  sectors,  also  help- 
ing to  limit  unemployment. 

Structure  of  the  Economy 

By  1986  postwar  economic  growth  had  raised  Finland's  GDP 
to  about  US$70.5  billion,  making  the  country  one  of  the  most 
prosperous  in  the  world.  Economic  expansion  over  the  years  had 
substantially  altered  the  structure  of  the  economy  (see  fig.  14;  fig. 
15;  table  13,  Appendix  A).  By  1986  agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing 
had  fallen  to  a  little  under  8  percent  of  GDP  from  nearly  26  per- 
cent in  1950.  Industry,  including  mining,  manufacturing,  construc- 
tion, and  utilities,  accounted  for  about  35  percent  of  GDP,  down 
from  about  40  percent  in  1950.  Within  industry,  metalworking  had 
grown  most  rapidly,  its  output  almost  equalling  that  of  wood 
processing  by  the  late  1970s.  In  the  late  1980s,  industrialists  looked 
forward  to  a  shift  toward  electronics  and  other  high-technology 
products. 

While  agriculture  and  industry  had  declined  in  relative  terms 
during  the  postwar  years,  the  service  sector  had  grown  from  about 
34  percent  of  GDP  to  almost  58  percent,  leading  some  observers 
to  characterize  Finland  as  a  postindustrial  society.  Several  factors 
accounted  for  the  expansion  of  the  service  sector.  Government,  very 
small  under  the  Russian  Empire,  grew  rapidly  between  the  Great 
Depression  and  the  early  1970s  as  the  state  took  responsibility  for 
an  increasingly  greater  share  of  economic  life.  In  addition,  trans- 
portation, communications,  engineering,  finance,  and  commerce 
became  more  important  as  the  economy  further  developed  and 
diversified. 

Control  and  ownership  of  Finland's  economic  life  were  highly 
concentrated,  especially  after  the  industrial  and  financial  restruc- 
turing of  the  1980s.  Thus,  by  1987  three  firms  controlled  most  ship- 
building, a  small  number  of  woodworking  enterprises  dominated 


147 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


The  Economy 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

the  forest  industries,  and  two  main  commercial  banks  exercised 
wide-reaching  influence  over  industrial  development.  Large  state- 
owned  firms  provided  most  of  the  energy,  basic  metals,  and  chem- 
icals. The  country's  farmers,  workers,  and  employers  had  formed 
centralized  associations  that  represented  the  vast  majority  of  eco- 
nomic actors.  Likewise,  a  handful  of  enterprises  handled  most  trade 
with  the  Soviet  Union.  Some  observers  suggested  that  the  trend 
toward  internationalization  might  increase  the  influence  of  foreign 
firms  and  executives  in  Finnish  enterprises,  but  this  effect  would 
make  itself  felt  slowly.  Thus,  while  Finland  remained  a  land  of 
family  farms,  a  narrow  elite  ran  the  economy,  facilitating  decision 
making,  but  perhaps  contributing  to  the  average  worker's  sense 
of  exclusion,  which  may  have  contributed  to  the  country's  endemic 
labor  unrest. 

Role  of  Government 

As  in  most  European  countries  that  were  late  in  industrializing, 
the  Finnish  state  played  an  important  role  in  sponsoring  econom- 
ic development.  Thus,  in  the  interwar  years,  the  government  car- 
ried out  crucial  agricultural  reforms  and  established  pioneering 
industrial  enterprises.  During  World  War  II,  the  government  im- 
posed comprehensive  economic  controls  to  support  the  defense  ef- 
fort, many  of  which  remained  in  force  during  the  reconstruction 
years.  Starting  in  the  1950s,  however,  as  economic  growth  over- 
came production  bottlenecks  and  shortages  of  consumer  goods,  the 
government  gradually  relaxed  the  regulatory  framework.  Neverthe- 
less, wartime  intervention  in  the  economy  had  left  institutional  lega- 
cies that  influenced  later  economic  policies. 

The  need  to  maintain  export  markets  in  Western  Europe,  itself 
engaged  in  a  process  of  economic  integration  by  the  late  1950s, 
led  the  government  to  decide  to  liberalize  trade  in  industrial 
products.  Free  trade,  in  turn,  undermined  the  government's  abil- 
ity to  isolate  the  domestic  economy  from  world  market  conditions. 
Increasingly  tied  to  the  economies  of  the  Nordic  area  and  Western 
Europe,  Finland  was  constrained  to  adopt  policies  similar  to  those 
in  force  elsewhere.  Although  the  policy  packages  varied  in  response 
to  domestic  political  developments  and  international  market  shifts, 
they  all  took  into  account  Finland's  position  as  a  small,  relatively 
open  economy,  in  which  fluctuations  in  raw  material  exports  had 
a  significant  impact  on  the  business  cycle.  By  the  late  1980s,  when 
exports  and  imports  each  accounted  for  about  one-quarter  of  GDP, 
export  competitiveness  had  become  the  dominant  policy  concern. 

Some  analysts  saw  in  Finnish  economic  management  a  liberal, 
noninterventionist  variant  of  the  economic  polices  of  other  Nordic 


150 


The  Economy 


states.  Thus,  Finland,  less  prosperous  than  its  Western  neighbors, 
did  not  develop  a  comprehensive  welfare  state  until  the  late  1960s, 
and  it  held  benefits  below  the  Scandinavian  average  (see  Growth 
of  the  Social  Welfare  System,  ch.  2).  Like  other  Nordic  states,  Fin- 
land had  institutionalized  wage  and  benefit  negotiations,  but  the 
Finnish  system  of  industrial  relations  involved  substantially  more 
conflict  than  the  systems  in  the  Scandinavian  states  (see  Human 
Resources,  this  ch.).  Along  the  same  lines,  Finl2ind  protected  domes- 
tic agriculture,  but  generally  avoided  bailing  out  declining  indus- 
trial concerns,  favoring  measures  to  facilitate  structural  adjustment. 
Finnish  politicians,  some  of  whom  saw  Sweden  as  a  model,  claimed 
that  their  neighbor's  mistakes  had  taught  them  to  avoid  excessive 
welfare  programs  and  industrial  subsidies  that  would  slow  adap- 
tation to  new  market  conditions.  Foreign  analysts  noted,  however, 
that  special  factors,  such  as  Finland's  relatively  late  industrial 
development  and  the  role  of  Finland's  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union, 
2ilso  helped  to  explain  deviations  from  the  general  Nordic  pattern. 
By  the  1980s,  as  austerity  policies  spread  throughout  the  region, 
aspects  of  Finnish  policy  seemed  to  lead  rather  than  to  follow  Nor- 
dic developments. 

Despite  the  laissez-faire  slant  of  Finnish  economic  policy,  direct 
state  intervention  strongly  influenced  operating  conditions  in  many 
sectors.  In  agriculture,  for  example,  years  of  government  support 
and  tariff  protection  had  sustained  a  relatively  large  rural  popula- 
tion that  expected  continued  aid  regardless  of  the  need  to  cut  farm 
surpluses  (see  Agriculture,  this  ch.).  Similarly,  the  state  had 
established  enterprises  in  capital-intensive,  high-risk  sectors, 
including  energy,  minerals,  basic  processing,  and  manufacturing 
in  which  private  investment  had  proven  inadequate.  By  the 
mid-1980s,  private  capital  markets  were  relatively  well-developed, 
but  the  twenty  state  enterprises  still  accounted  for  some  21  per- 
cent of  industrial  production,  and  they  included  many  of  the  coun- 
try's leading  firms,  such  as  the  Kemira  Group  in  chemicals, 
Enzo-Gutzeit  in  wood  processing,  the  Valmet  Group  in  engineer- 
ing and  shipbuilding,  and  Valvilla  in  textiles.  Yet  industrial  policy 
no  longer  depended  on  state  ownership,  and  these  enterprises  func- 
tioned much  as  private  companies.  Indeed,  starting  in  the  early 
1980s,  the  Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industry,  which  was  responsible 
for  state  enterprises,  began  to  demand  that  they  earn  profits.  The 
state  maintained  monopolies  in  alcoholic  beverages,  energy  (Neste 
and  Imatran  Voima),  and  minerals  (the  Outokumpu  Group  and 
Rautaruukki)  for  political  reasons,  but  divestment  in  other  sectors 
was  a  possibility.  In  1988  the  government  decided  to  allow  certain 
state  enterprises  to  sell  shares.  The  Valmet  Group  was  the  first  state 


151 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

firm  to  announce  plans  for  a  stock  offering,  and  observers  reported 
that  Outokumpu,  Kemira,  and  Neste  were  also  candidates  for  par- 
tial privatization,  depending  on  how  well  the  Valmet  stocks  sold. 
The  government  planned  to  retain  controlling  interests  in  the  com- 
panies for  at  least  several  years,  but  some  politicians  favored  com- 
plete privatization. 

Privatization  and  deregulation  were  ways  to  dismantle  the  rel- 
ics of  earlier  economic  policies  and  to  release  public  resources  for 
other  purposes.  In  the  late  1980s,  government  interest  concentrated 
on  speeding  rationalization  and  restructuring,  even  at  the  cost  of 
higher  unemployment  Eind  greater  industrial  concentration.  Indus- 
trial policy  sought  to  foster  a  shift  away  from  heavy  engineering 
toward  electronics  and  high- technology  production.  The  state 
sharply  increased  expenditures  for  research  and  development,  and 
it  helped  coordinate  efforts  among  universities,  private  industry, 
and  government  research  centers  (see  Industrial  Policy,  this  ch.). 
The  government  and  the  Bank  of  Finland  (BOF),  Finland's  cen- 
tral bank,  gradually  deregulated  the  financial  sector  in  an  effort 
to  improve  the  efficiency  of  capital  markets  (see  Banking  and 
Finance,  this  ch.).  Thus,  although  the  state  continued  to  control 
certain  key  sectors,  such  as  agriculture,  forestry,  minerals,  and  ener- 
gy, overall  economic  policy  had  shifted  from  sectoral  intervention 
toward  efforts  to  improve  productivity  and  market  efficiency. 

Macroeconomic  Policy 

During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  government  policy  had  pursued 
rapid  economic  growth  and  high  investment  in  industry,  often  to 
the  detriment  of  price  stability.  By  the  mid-1960s,  the  government, 
generally  in  concert  with  the  BOF,  which  controlled  monetary  and 
exchange-rate  policy,  established  a  macroeconomic  approach  with 
fixed  roles  for  monetary,  fiscal,  incomes,  and  exchange-rate  poli- 
cies. In  general,  monetary  policy  aimed  at  keeping  interest  rates 
low  to  favor  domestic  investment.  The  BOF  imposed  strict  con- 
trols on  capital  exports,  which  made  possible  negative  real  interest 
rates,  2ind  rationed  credit  to  the  commercial  banks,  which  controlled 
most  investment.  The  perceived  need  to  balance  budgets,  usually 
annually,  handicapped  fiscal  policy.  The  government  used  incomes 
policy  to  influence  wage  settlements,  often  offering  tax  breaks  in 
exchange  for  concessions  from  management  and  labor,  but  incomes 
policy  was  rarely  coordinated  with  the  general  macroeconomic 
strategy.  Exchange-rate  policy  was  dedicated  to  safeguarding 
industrial  competitiveness. 

Although  this  policy  package  favored  growth,  high  employment, 
and  industrial  development,  the  economy  suffered  from  greater 


152 


The  Economy 


inflation  and  instability  than  those  of  other  OECD  countries.  PubUc 
spending  remained  under  firm  control,  but  low  interest  rates  and 
tax  cuts  fueled  domestic  inflation.  At  roughly  ten-year  intervals, 
Finland  experienced  export-led  booms  followed  by  major  devalu- 
ations and  severe  recessions.  Fluctuations  in  world  demand  for  Fin- 
nish exports  were  largely  responsible  for  the  cycles,  but  economic 
policies  magnified  them.  Typically,  a  period  of  overheating  in  the 
economy,  occasioned  by  an  upswing  in  exports  and  by  the  rela- 
tively inelastic  supply  of  exportable  commodities,  led  to  sharp 
increases  in  wages  and  prices  in  the  export  sector  as  well  as  to  greater 
imports  of  investment  goods.  Faced  with  declining  export  competi- 
tiveness and  a  worsening  external  balance,  the  authorities  responded 
with  major  currency  devaluations  (24  percent  in  1967;  10  percent 
in  1977-78)  and  with  tighter  macroeconomic  policies,  which  damp- 
ened domestic  demand  but  restored  competitiveness.  Output  re- 
covered following  each  devaluation,  only  to  decline  as  domestic 
inflation  rocketed  higher,  further  eroding  competitiveness  in  exter- 
nal markets. 

Although  Finland  mamaged  to  avoid  restructuring  traditional  poli- 
cies until  several  years  after  the  1973  oil  crisis,  an  especially  severe 
downturn  in  the  second  half  of  the  1970s,  caused  largely  by  reces- 
sion in  West  European  markets,  inspired  a  new  policy  approach. 
Starting  in  1977,  with  the  adoption  of  a  five-year  stabilization  pro- 
gram, the  government  began  to  give  priority  to  fighting  inflation 
and  to  overcoming  the  devaluation  cycle,  even  at  the  cost  of  higher 
unemployment  and  slower  growth  in  the  short  run. 

The  new  macroeconomic  framework  involved  changing  the  tradi- 
tional assignments  for  each  policy  tool.  Perhaps  the  most  impor- 
tant innovation  was  a  more  active  role  for  fiscal  policy.  Given  the 
low  level  of  Finnish  state  debt,  policy  makers  stopped  requiring 
that  the  budget  balance  each  year,  and  they  aimed  instead  for  a 
balanced  budget  over  the  life  of  the  business  cycle.  Fiscal  policy 
became  consciously  countercyclicad,  and  increased  spending  dur- 
ing the  1982-83  slowdown  was  followed  by  tax  increases  in  the 
1984-85  upswing.  In  addition,  the  authorities  adjusted  tax  rates 
not  only  to  moderate  wage  demands  but  also  to  affect  investments 
and  export  competitiveness.  The  implementation  of  monetary  policy 
shifted  from  offering  negative  interest  rates  in  a  protected  capital 
market  to  using  interest  rates  to  dampen  inflation  and  to  influence 
the  exchange  rate.  Monetary  policy  came  to  depend  even  more 
on  market  operations  by  the  mid-1980s,  as  deregulation  of  finan- 
cial markets  eliminated  the  earlier  system  of  capital  rationing.  The 
tighter  monetary  stance  tended  to  reduce  the  volume  of  investment, 
but  economists  expected  that  the  quality  of  investments  would 


153 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


improve.  After  1977  the  BOF  attempted  to  peg  the  external  value 
of  the  Finnish  mark  to  a  trade-weighted  "basket"  of  foreign  cur- 
rencies. The  new  exchange-rate  policy  was  meant  to  curtail  both 
domestic  and  imported  inflation.  Indeed,  in  1979  and  1980,  the 
currency  was  allowed  to  appreciate  for  the  first  time  in  the  post- 
war period  in  response  to  greater  export  demand.  Policy  makers 
hoped  that  the  stable  exchange  rate  would  eliminate  distortions 
caused  by  an  undervalued  or  overvalued  currency  and  would  allow 
market  conditions  to  determine  investment  decisions. 

The  new  approach  to  managing  the  economy  still  depended  on 
negotiated  incomes  settlements  to  restrain  wage  growth  and  to 
dampen  inflation.  The  government  continued  to  try  to  influence 
agreements  between  capital  and  labor  by  means  of  fiscal  or  other 
incentives.  Implementing  such  sophisticated  policies  required 
extensive  coordination  and  cooperation  among  government 
ministers  belonging  to  different  parties,  the  BOF,  and  leaders  in 
agriculture,  industry,  and  labor.  Although  differences  among 
interest  groups  continued  to  exist  and  sometimes  resulted  in  seri- 
ous conflicts,  the  country  enjoyed  widespread  consensus  regard- 
ing the  desirability  of  medium-term  stabilization.  It  was  this 
consensus — and  the  macroeconomic  policies  it  made  possible — 
that  deserved  much  of  the  credit  for  Finland's  relatively  strong  eco- 
nomic growth,  low  unemployment,  and  price  stability. 

Public  Finance 

As  of  1987,  public-sector  spending  amounted  to  about  42  per- 
cent of  GDP,  below  the  OECD  average.  Austerity  policies  had 
limited  real  budget  increases  to  about  1 . 5  percent  per  annum  from 
1980  to  1987,  substantially  less  than  the  rapid  growth  in  govern- 
ment spending  during  the  1960s  and  1970s  (see  table  14,  Appen- 
dix A).  Total  taxes  amounted  to  about  36  percent  of  GDP  in  1987, 
fluctuating  by  a  few  percentage  points  from  year  to  year.  Because 
of  the  gap  between  taxes  and  spending,  government  debt  grew  rela- 
tively rapidly  during  the  1980s,  reaching  almost  15  percent  of  GDP 
by  1987,  but  it  was  still  low  by  OECD  standards. 

Each  autumn  the  Ministry  of  Finance  submitted  to  the 
Eduskunta,  the  country's  parliament,  the  budget  for  the  next  fis- 
cal year  (which  corresponded  to  the  calendar  year),  accompanied 
by  a  survey  of  the  economic  situation.  Early  in  the  following  spring, 
while  the  budget  was  being  debated,  the  ministry  published  a  revised 
version  of  the  survey,  which  estimated  the  over2ill  fiscal  impact  on 
aggregate  demand,  income,  and  money  supply.  After  parliamen- 
tary approval  of  the  annual  budget,  the  government  often  responded 
to  changing  conditions  by  requesting  supplementary  appropriations. 


154 


The  Economy 


sometimes  significantly  modifying  the  original  budget. 

Starting  in  the  late  1970s,  as  it  sought  to  maintain  tight  limits 
on  the  growth  of  the  public  sector,  the  government,  in  its  fiscal 
policy  considerations,  began  to  analyze  social  security  funds  and 
local  spending  as  parts  of  the  overall  budget.  The  central  govern- 
ment regularly  transferred  large  sums  to  local  authorities,  which 
accounted  for  about  two-thirds  of  public-sector  operations.  Local 
administrations  levied  a  flat  tax,  which  had  reached  about  16  per- 
cent in  1986,  on  earned  income.  The  central  government  influenced 
local  expenditures  by  regulating  transfers  and  by  negotiating 
multiyear  spending  limits.  Nevertheless,  current  local  government 
expenditures,  many  of  which  were  required  by  law,  sometimes 
exceeded  targets.  The  central  government  also  attempted  to 
manipulate  social  security  taxes  as  an  instrument  of  fiscal  policy, 
a  technique  that  Finland  had  pioneered .  The  government  lowered 
employers'  contributions  for  health,  accident,  and  unemployment 
insurance  by  about  2  percent  of  the  wage  bill  between  1977  and 
1987  in  an  attempt  to  encourage  job  creation. 

National  taxes  absorbed  about  26  percent  of  GDP,  and  local 
taxes,  roughly  16  percent,  in  the  mid-1980s.  In  1986  the  govern- 
ment introduced  reforms  of  business  income  taxes,  including  a 
reduced  value-added  tax  on  energy,  designed  to  improve  export 
competitiveness.  In  1988  the  legislature  enacted  a  comprehensive 
tax  reform  meant  to  reduce  marginal  rates  of  taxation  after  eliminat- 
ing many  deductions.  Policy  makers  expected  that  the  1988  reform 
would  reduce  tax-induced  distortions  in  investment  behavior  and 
would  make  the  tax  system  fairer. 

Government  spending  had  changed  significandy  during  the  post- 
war years.  In  the  late  1940s  and  early  1950s,  temporary  expendi- 
tures associated  with  the  war  dominated  the  budget.  From  the  early 
1950s  to  the  early  1970s,  the  fastest- growing  sectors  in  the  budget 
were  education,  social  welfare  transfers,  and  capital  investments. 
By  the  late  1980s,  current  expenditures  remained  roughly  the  same 
as  in  the  1970s,  but  investments  had  fallen.  In  1987,  for  example, 
debt  service  led  expenditures  (at  about  17.2  percent  of  total  out- 
lays), followed  closely  by  social  security  (17.1  percent)  and  educa- 
tion, science,  and  the  arts  (16  percent).  Government  operations 
and  defense  amounted  to  about  14.7  percent,  and  health,  to  8  per- 
cent. Except  for  agriculture  and  forestry  (which  absorbed  8.3  per- 
cent) and  transport  (8  percent),  subsidies  for  different  branches  of 
the  economy  took  relatively  small  amounts:  housing,  4.4  percent; 
industry,  3.4  percent;  and  labor,  2.5  percent. 

Finland's  state  debt,  at  about  14  percent  of  GDP  in  1987,  was 


155 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

low  by  international  standards,  as  was  the  debt  of  local  govern- 
ments, which  stood  at  roughly  3  percent.  Nevertheless,  during  the 
1980s  the  government  tried  to  limit  the  growth  of  state  debt  to  avoid 
increased  interest  expenditures.  As  of  1987,  sUghtly  more  than  half 
the  state  debt  was  in  foreign  currencies.  When  the  state  sought 
financing  abroad,  it  avoided  crowding  out  private  borrowers  in  Fin- 
land's relatively  shallow  capital  market,  but  foreign  debt  increased 
foreign-exchange  risk.  In  1986  and  1987,  however,  officials  took 
advantage  of  their  government's  high  credit  rating  to  refinance 
much  of  the  debt  at  lower  interest  rates.  Although  policy  makers 
would  have  to  manage  the  debt  carefully,  most  an2ilysts  believed 
it  was  unlikely  that  Finland's  state  debt  would  seriously  constrain 
government  operations  during  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s. 

Human  Resources 

Finland's  work  force  was  the  country's  most  valuable  economic 
asset;  managing  it  posed  the  greatest  challenges  to  both  business 
and  government.  Like  most  European  countries,  Finland  suffered 
from  unemployment,  but  employers  reported  difficulties  in  find- 
ing qualified  workers.  Although  the  country  boasted  a  consensual 
approach  to  industrial  relations,  strikes  often  interrupted  produc- 
tion. Likewise,  Finland's  workers  enjoyed  a  high  standard  of  liv- 
ing, but  regular  wage  increases  contributed  to  domestic  inflation, 
worsened  unemployment,  and  exacerbated  balance-of-payments 
difficulties.  Business  often  granted  seemingly  excessive  wage 
increases,  yet  alienated  workers  through  adamant  opposition  to 
increased  democracy  in  the  workplace.  Government  policies  ad- 
dressed labor  problems  with  only  limited  success. 

Employment 

In  1 986  the  civilian  labor  force  numbered  a  little  more  than  2 . 5 
million,  of  which  about  5.4  percent  were  unemployed  (see  table 
15,  1950-85,  Appendix  A).  Less  than  1 1  percent  of  the  work  force 
worked  in  agriculture  and  forestry  (down  from  over  45  percent  in 
1950).  Employment  in  industry  and  construction  cimounted  to  about 
32  percent,  while  the  service  sector  employed  a  little  over  57  per- 
cent. Finland's  employment  structure  resembled  that  of  other  Eu- 
ropean countries,  except  that  agricultural  employment  was  still 
higher  than  the  West  European  average,  and  industrial  employ- 
ment had  fallen  more  slowly  in  Finland  after  the  1973  oil  crisis  than 
it  had  elsewhere.  Economists  suggested  that  both  phenomena 
reflected  Finland's  relatively  late  industrialization  and  that  the  coun- 
try could  expect  further  declines  in  the  employment  shares  of 
agriculture  and  industry. 


156 


The  Economy 


As  in  most  European  countries,  general  unemployment  became 
a  serious  problem  during  the  1970s,  rising  from  about  1.8  percent 
in  1974  to  an  average  of  about  5.7  percent  between  1980  and  1986. 
Official  statistics  showed  that  unemployment  had  fallen  to  5.5  per- 
cent for  the  first  half  of  1987,  but  this  figure  had  resulted  from 
redefining  unemployed  workers  over  55  years  of  age  as  retired.  The 
number  of  unemployed  persons  actually  had  barely  changed 
between  1986  and  1987.  Despite  economic  growth,  during  the  early 
1980s  total  demand  for  labor  stagnated,  but  the  working-age  popu- 
lation increased  by  an  average  of  1 .2  percent  each  year.  Economists 
estimated  that  real  GDP  would  need  to  rise  by  over  3  percent  per 
year  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s  just  to  keep  up  with  the  grow- 
ing work  force. 

While  unemployment  was  less  severe  in  Finland  than  it  was  in 
most  European  countries,  policy  makers  considered  the  job  short- 
age to  be  the  country's  main  economic  problem.  Young  people 
suffered  most  from  the  rise  in  unemployment.  In  the  late  1980s, 
the  unemployment  rate  for  people  between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and 
twenty-four  was  almost  twice  the  overall  average.  The  aging  of  the 
population  would  tend  to  reduce  the  youth  unemployment  rate  in 
the  1990s,  but  observers  predicted  that  the  total  population  of 
working-age  persons  would  continue  to  rise  for  at  least  a  decade 
and  that  unemployment  would  be  a  serious  problem. 

Although  many  workers  could  not  find  jobs,  some  employers 
reported  difficulties  in  finding  skilled  industrial  workers;  in  par- 
ticular, construction  and  service  workers  were  hard  to  find  in  the 
booming  Helsinki  area.  Although  certain  skills  might  be  in  short 
supply,  the  work  force  genersdly  was  competent  and  hardworking. 
Indeed,  during  the  postwar  years,  the  number  of  Finns  with  voca- 
tional training  had  increased  fourfold,  and  the  number  of  univer- 
sity graduates  had  increased  fivefold  (see  Education,  ch.  2).  The 
graduates  of  Finland's  management  schools  were  well  prepared  to 
meet  the  challenges  posed  by  an  increasingly  international  busi- 
ness environment.  Some  managers  argued  that  young  Finns  showed 
more  initiative  on  the  job  than  their  parents. 

The  government  tried  to  cope  with  unemployment,  focusing  on 
youth  joblessness.  Aside  from  expanding  public  employment,  gener- 
ally seen  as  a  stopgap,  state  efforts  included  retraining  programs 
for  unemployed  workers,  advanced  vocational  training,  travel  and 
resettlement  allowances,  and  subsidies  for  housing  in  areas  with 
labor  shortages.  A  particularly  effective  mechanism  was  the  nation- 
wide employment  exchange,  which  brought  together  people  seek- 
ing employment  with  potential  employers.  In  the  long  run,  however, 
such  measures  could  only  serve  as  palliatives.  Analysts  believed 


157 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

that  the  state  could  best  increase  employment  by  following  sound 
macroeconomic  policies  and  by  facilitating  cooperation  among  the 
organizations  representing  labor  and  management. 

Industrial  Relations 

Although  trade  unionization  had  started  somewhat  later  in  Fin- 
land than  it  had  throughout  the  rest  of  the  continent,  in  the  1980s 
the  country's  workers  and  employers  were  the  most  highly  organized 
in  Western  Europe.  According  to  the  Ministry  of  Labor,  about 
80  percent  of  the  work  force  belonged  to  unions,  although  the  rate 
varied  significantly  among  industries.  Employers'  federations  also 
represented  most  enterprises  (see  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Conflict  between  labor  and  management  was  fierce  during  the 
interwar  years  because  tensions  resulting  from  the  civil  war  had 
soured  industrial  relations.  Labor-management  collaboration  im- 
proved in  1940  when  the  Central  Organization  of  Finnish  Trade 
Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiyhdistysten  Keskusliitto — SAK)  and  the 
Confederation  of  Finnish  Employers  (Suomen  Tyonantajain 
Keskusliitto — STK)  recognized  each  other  and  agreed  to  cooper- 
ate during  the  national  emergency.  Industrial  relations  languished 
immediately  after  World  War  II,  however,  in  part  because  govern- 
ment regulations  tied  wages  to  the  cost-of-living  index.  Despite  a 
general  strike  in  1956,  occasioned  by  conflicts  of  interest  among 
farmers,  workers,  and  management,  a  spirit  of  compromise  gradu- 
ally developed  in  the  late  1950s  and  early  1960s. 

Finland's  industrial  relations  took  an  important  turn  for  the  better 
in  1968,  when  a  system  of  centralized  incomes  agreements  was 
instigated  by  the  government,  which  hoped  to  curb  inflation  and 
improve  competitiveness  after  a  major  currency  devaluation.  After 
that  date,  regular  negotiations,  involving  the  government,  labor, 
and  employers,  led  to  central  agreements  on  wages,  benefits,  work 
conditions,  and  social  policy.  Negotiations  usually  started  in  the 
fall  and  ended  in  March.  Senior  civil  servants  acted  as  mediators 
between  labor  and  management.  The  government  often  offered 
concessions,  such  as  tax  reductions,  longer  vacations,  or  reduced 
employer  social  security  contributions,  in  exchange  for  wage  re- 
straint or  increased  investment.  The  central  agreement  among  the 
national  federations  was  not  binding  on  individual  unions.  In  prac- 
tice, however,  the  central  agreement  provided  guidelines  for  con- 
tracts made  between  unions  and  employers  or,  if  necessary,  between 
workers  and  management  at  individual  factories.  Contracts  affecting 
civil  servants  and  professioneds  were  usually  negotiated  after  set- 
tlements in  industry,  as  were  settlements  concerning  prices  paid 
for  agricultural  commodities  and  lumber.  In  this  way,  wages  in 


158 


The  Economy 


private  enterprises  exposed  to  international  competition  influenced 
the  protected  sectors  of  the  economy. 

Many  observers  feared  renewed  labor  conflict  during  the  1980s 
as  slower  growth,  stiff  foreign  competition,  and  austerity  policies 
put  pressures  on  the  negotiation  process.  Strikes  did  occur,  most- 
ly during  the  spring  negotiation  season.  In  1986,  for  example, 
unions  representing  sadaried  employees,  technicians,  and  profes- 
sional personnel  accepted  the  central  agreement,  but  SAK  held  out 
for  shortened  work  hours.  When  the  STK  demanded  greater  flex- 
ibility in  setting  work  schedules  in  exchange  for  the  proposed  reduc- 
tion in  work  time,  SAK  responded  with  the  first  general  strike  since 
1956.  As  a  result,  SAK  gained  a  larger  wage  increase  than  the  other 
federations  and  a  provision  that  by  1990  would  reduce  the  work 
week  in  industry  to  37.5  hours.  Moreover,  a  number  of  local  unions 
refused  to  follow  the  central  agreement,  preferring  to  negotiate  on 
their  own. 

In  1988  the  government  was  unable  to  implement  a  national 
agreement,  largely  because  of  opposition  from  employers.  Unions 
and  employers  reached  agreements  industry  by  industry,  generally 
following  the  settlement  reached  in  the  paper  industry.  In  this 
industry,  blue-collar  workers  had  achieved  wage  increases  of  about 
4  percent  for  the  first  year  of  their  two-year  agreement,  while  white- 
collar  workers  had  received  higher  raises;  the  parties  had  agreed 
to  delay  negotiations  for  the  second  year.  Although  its  proposals 
had  been  rejected,  the  government  still  intervened  in  the  negotia- 
tion process  by  introducing  legislation  on  retraining  programs,  secu- 
rity against  dismissal,  and  worker  representation  on  company 
boards.  The  fact  that  important  service  branches,  such  as  bank- 
ing, insurance,  and  trade,  had  opted  for  multiyear  agreements  in 
which  wage  increases  were  to  be  negotiated  a  year  at  a  time,  fur- 
ther indicated  that  the  centralized  negotiation  process  was  becom- 
ing fragmented.  Despite  these  apparent  setbacks,  most  Finns 
supported  an  incomes  policy  as  a  way  to  restrain  wages,  thereby 
protecting  real  earnings. 

Despite  widespread  consensus  on  incomes  policy,  Finland  con- 
tinued to  experience  more  strikes  and  lockouts  than  other  Nordic 
states.  In  principle,  Finnish  legislation  blocked  strike  actions  dur- 
ing periods  governed  by  incomes  agreements.  Moreover,  accord- 
ing to  the  law  regulating  strikes,  unions  were  required  to  give  two 
weeks'  notice  to  both  employers  and  the  state  before  initiating  a 
strike,  and  the  government  could  delay  a  strike  and  could  require 
mediation.  Despite  these  controls,  illegad  work  stoppages  occurred 
regularly,  often  involving  small,  but  well-placed,  groups  of  work- 
ers. In  1986,  for  example,  air  traffic  controllers  shut  down  the 


159 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Helsinki  airport  for  two  weeks.  The  number  of  strikes  had  declined, 
however,  after  1984,  when  the  central  incomes  agreement  had 
included  a  ninefold  increase  in  the  fines  for  illegal  strikes. 

Agriculture^  Forestry^  and  Fisheries 

The  Finns  traditionally  earned  their  living  from  the  produce  of 
their  soils  and  waters.  Even  though  by  the  1980s  Finland  had  long 
been  an  industrial  country,  many  Finns  continued  to  see  the  hard- 
working farmer  as  an  upright  figure  whose  way  of  life  should  be 
preserved  so  the  country  would  not  lose  contact  with  its  rural  roots. 
Agriculture,  forestry,  and  fisheries  had  shrunk  to  less  than  10  per- 
cent of  GDP  by  the  late  1980s,  but  these  sectors  remained  crucial 
for  the  country's  economic  security.  Although  only  8  percent  of 
its  territory  was  arable,  the  country  had  been  self-sufficient  in  basic 
foodstuffs  since  the  1960s — indeed,  surpluses  of  dairy  products  and 
meat  caused  serious  difficulties  in  the  1970s  and  the  1980s.  Seventy- 
six  percent  of  the  country  was  covered  by  forests,  which  supplied 
the  country's  most  important  raw  material — lumber.  Agriculture 
and  forestry  had  long  been  closely  linked:  most  farms  included  for- 
estland,  and  most  farmers  supplemented  their  earnings  by  selling 
lumber  or  by  working  in  the  forest  industries  during  the  winter. 
Although  rivers  and  l2Lkes  covered  about  9  percent  of  Finland,  and 
the  country  had  extensive  coastal  waters,  fishing  was  not  an  im- 
portant source  of  food  or  employment. 

The  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Forestry  was  responsible  for 
policies  dealing  with  agriculture,  forestry,  and  fishing.  Recogniz- 
ing the  close  links  among  these  sectors,  the  government  considered 
that  policies  should  offer  integrated  solutions  to  the  problems  of 
managing  the  country's  resources. 

Agriculture 

Finland's  climate  and  soils  make  growing  crops  a  particular 
challenge.  The  country  lies  between  60°  and  70°  north  latitude — as 
far  north  as  Alaska — and  has  severe  winters  and  relatively  short 
growing  seasons  that  are  sometimes  interrupted  by  frosts.  However, 
because  the  Gulf  Stream  and  the  North  Atlantic  Drift  Current 
moderate  the  climate,  Finland  contains  half  of  the  world's  arable 
land  north  of  60°  north  latitude.  Although  precipitation  is  fairly 
well  distributed  throughout  the  year,  summer  droughts  pose  occa- 
sional problems.  In  response  to  the  climate,  farmers  have  relied 
on  quick-ripening  and  frost-resistant  varieties  of  crops,  and  they 
have  cultivated  south-facing  slopes  as  well  as  richer  bottomlands 
to  ensure  production  even  in  years  with  summer  frosts.  Most  farm- 
land had  originally  been  either  forest  or  swamp,  and  the  soil 


160 


Gathering  hay  on  a  small  farm  in  Urjala  in  the  province  of  Hdme 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

had  usu2illy  required  treatment  with  Hme  and  years  of  cultivation 
to  neutralize  excess  acid  and  to  develop  fertility.  Irrigation  was 
generally  not  necessary,  but  drainage  systems  were  often  needed 
to  remove  excess  water. 

Until  the  late  nineteenth  century,  Finland's  isolation  required 
that  most  farmers  concentrate  on  producing  grains  to  meet  the  coun- 
try's basic  food  needs.  In  the  fall,  farmers  planted  rye;  in  the  spring, 
southern  and  central  farmers  started  oats,  while  northern  farmers 
seeded  barley.  Farms  also  grew  sm2ill  quantities  of  potatoes,  other 
root  crops,  and  legumes.  Nevertheless,  the  totail  area  under  culti- 
vation was  still  small.  Cattle  grazed  in  the  summer  and  consumed 
hay  in  the  winter.  Essentially  self-sufficient,  Finland  engaged  in 
very  limited  agricultural  trade. 

This  traditional,  almost  autarkic,  production  pattern  shifted 
sharply  during  the  late  nineteenth  century,  when  inexpensive  im- 
ported grain  from  Russia  and  the  United  States  competed  effec- 
tively with  local  grain.  At  the  Scime  time,  rising  domestic  and  foreign 
demand  for  dairy  products  and  the  availability  of  low-cost  imported 
cattle  feed  made  dairy  and  meat  production  much  more  profit- 
able. These  changes  in  market  conditions  induced  Finland's  farmers 
to  switch  from  growing  staple  grains  to  producing  meat  and  dairy 
products,  setting  a  pattern  that  persisted  into  the  late  1980s. 

In  response  to  the  agricultural  depression  of  the  1930s,  the 


161 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

government  encouraged  domestic  production  by  imposing  tariffs 
on  agricultural  imports.  This  policy  enjoyed  some  success:  the  total 
area  under  cultivation  increased,  and  farm  incomes  fell  less  sharp- 
ly in  Finland  than  in  most  other  countries.  Barriers  to  grain  imports 
stimulated  a  return  to  mixed  farming,  and  by  1938  Finland's  farm- 
ers were  able  to  meet  roughly  90  percent  of  the  domestic  demand 
for  grain. 

The  disruptions  caused  by  the  Winter  War  and  the  Continua- 
tion War  caused  further  food  shortages,  especially  when  Finland 
ceded  territory,  including  about  one- tenth  of  its  farmland,  to  the 
Soviet  Union  (see  The  Winter  War  and  The  Continuation  War, 
ch.  1).  The  experiences  of  the  depression  and  the  war  years  per- 
suaded the  Finns  to  secure  independent  food  supplies  to  prevent 
shortages  in  future  conflicts. 

After  the  war,  the  first  challenge  was  to  resettle  displaced  farm- 
ers. Most  refugee  farmers  were  given  farms  that  included  some 
buildings  and  land  that  had  already  been  in  production,  but  some 
had  to  make  do  with  "cold  farms,"  that  is,  land  not  in  production 
that  usually  had  to  be  cleared  or  drained  before  crops  could  be  sown. 
The  government  sponsored  large-scale  clearing  and  draining  oper- 
ations that  expanded  the  area  suitable  for  farming.  As  a  result  of 
the  resettlement  and  land-clearing  programs,  the  area  under  cul- 
tivation expanded  by  about  450,000  hectares,  reaching  about  2.4 
million  hectares  by  the  early  1960s.  Finland  thus  came  to  farm  more 
land  than  ever  before,  an  unusual  development  in  a  country  that 
was  simultaneously  experiencing  rapid  industrial  growth. 

During  this  period  of  expansion,  farmers  introduced  modern 
production  practices.  The  widespread  use  of  modern  inputs — 
chemical  fertilizers  and  insecticides,  agricultural  machinery,  and 
improved  seed  varieties — sharply  improved  crop  yields.  Yet  the 
modernization  process  again  made  farm  production  dependent  on 
supplies  from  abroad,  this  time  on  imports  of  petroleum  and  fer- 
tilizers. By  1984  domestic  sources  of  energy  covered  only  about 
20  percent  of  farm  needs,  while  in  1950  domestic  sources  had  sup- 
plied 70  percent  of  them.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  oil  price  increases 
of  the  early  1970s,  farmers  began  to  return  to  local  energy  sources 
such  as  firewood.  The  existence  of  many  farms  that  were  too  small 
to  allow  efficient  use  of  tractors  also  limited  mechanization.  Another 
weak  point  was  the  existence  of  many  fields  with  open  drainage 
ditches  needing  regular  maintenance;  in  the  mid-1980s,  experts 
estimated  that  half  of  the  cropland  needed  improved  drainage  works. 
At  that  time,  about  1  million  hectares  had  underground  drainage, 
and  agricultural  authorities  planned  to  help  install  such  works  on 
another  million  hectares.  Despite  these  shortcomings,  Finland's 


162 


The  Economy 


agriculture  was  efficient  and  productive — at  least  when  compared 
with  farming  in  other  European  countries. 

Farms  and  Farmers 

Finland's  agriculture  was  based  on  privately  owned  family  farms. 
This  was  especially  the  case  after  1922,  when  the  republic,  anx- 
ious to  reduce  rural  discontent,  implemented  the  first  of  a  series 
of  land  reforms  that  redistributed  land  to  tenants  and  to  landless 
farm  workers  (see  The  Establishment  of  Finnish  Democracy, 
ch.  1;  Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics,  1948-66, 
ch.  1).  After  World  War  II,  the  government  resettled  some  40,000 
farm  families  displaced  from  areas  occupied  by  the  Soviet  Union. 
The  postwar  resettlement  program  also  transferred  land  to  farms 
considered  too  small  for  efficient  operations,  many  of  which  had 
been  set  up  in  the  interwar  period. 

As  a  result  of  the  resettlement  program,  Finland  was  one  of  the 
few  industrialized  countries  in  which  the  number  of  farms  increased 
after  1945;  by  1950  there  were  about  260,000  farms.  The  number 
of  farms  started  to  decline  in  the  1960s,  however,  falling  to  about 
200,000  by  1981 .  The  decrease  in  the  number  of  farms  caused  an 
increase  in  average  farm  size,  but  large  farms  still  remained  rare. 
Thus,  in  the  mid-1980s,  about  60  percent  of  farms  covered  less 
than  ten  hectares,  25  percent  included  between  ten  and  twenty  hec- 
tares, and  only  15  percent  occupied  more  than  twenty  hectares. 
At  that  time,  both  large  and  small  farms  were  disappearing,  leav- 
ing an  increasing  number  of  farms  that  were  between  ten  and  twenty 
hectares.  Observers  predicted  that  this  trend  was  likely  to  continue. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  average  farm  comprised  twelve  hectares 
of  arable  land  and  thirty-five  hectares  of  forest.  The  relative  propor- 
tions of  field  holdings  to  forest  holdings  varied  from  region  to  region; 
in  the  south,  farmers  tended  to  own  more  arable  land  but  less  forest, 
while  in  the  north,  the  reverse  was  true.  Farm  families  formed  the 
basic  production  unit.  Family  members  provided  about  95  percent 
of  farm  labor;  wage  earners  supplied  the  remainder.  Most  farms 
specialized  in  one  or  two  activities,  such  as  hog  production,  dairy 
farming,  or  grain  cultivation.  Although  in  the  early  postwar  years 
most  farms  produced  some  milk,  by  the  early  1980s  only  one  out 
of  three  farms  did  so,  and  about  half  of  all  farms  had  no  farm 
animals.  This  tendency  toward  specialization  increased  the  effi- 
ciency of  Finland's  relatively  small  production  units. 

Farm  incomes  lagged  behind  those  of  the  total  population.  For 
example,  according  to  a  1984  study,  the  average  income  of  full- 
time  farmers  totaled  only  70  percent  of  that  of  industrial  workers. 
Nevertheless,  income  disparities  between  agriculture  and  other 


163 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


sectors  were  probably  less  severe  than  these  figures  indicate  because 
many  farm  families  supplemented  their  incomes  with  earnings  from 
forestry  and  other  occupations.  In  the  mid-1980s,  only  62  percent 
of  farmers'  incomes  came  from  agriculture,  while  another  26  per- 
cent was  derived  from  wages  and  12  percent  was  earned  from 
forestry. 

Farmers  had  a  strong  tradition  of  practical  and  political  cooper- 
ation. In  the  late  1980s,  some  90  percent  of  Finnish  farmers 
belonged  to  agricultural  unions,  which  were  divided  between  those 
for  Finnish  speakers  and  those  for  Swedish  speakers.  More  than 
330,000  union  members  belonged  to  430  Finnish-language  locals 
or  to  80  Swedish-language  loccJs.  Founded  in  1917,  the  Confeder- 
ation of  Agricultural  Producers  (Maataloustuottajain  Keskus- 
liitto — MTK)  served  as  an  umbrella  organization  for  agricultural 
unions,  and  it  represented  farmers  in  agricultural  price  negotia- 
tions with  the  government  and  with  other  producer  groups. 

In  addition  to  joining  unions  that  helped  influence  farm  poUcy, 
farmers  had  established  cooperative  associations  that  provided  farm 
supplies,  shared  marketing  expenses,  and  arranged  farm  financ- 
ing. The  umbrella  organization  of  farm  cooperatives  was  the 
Pellervo  Society,  which  had  more  than  a  million  members.  Each 
branch  of  agriculture  organized  its  own  cooperatives  to  handle  sales 
of  farm  products  and  purchases  of  supplies.  Cooperative  banks 
provided  about  half  of  aU  money  used  to  finance  farming,  and 
cooperative  insurance  associations  handled  farm  and  crop  insurance. 

Agricultural  Policy 

Finland's  agricultural  policy  has  long  been  inspired  by  more  than 
purely  economic  considerations.  The  need  to  maintain  secure  food 
sources  caused  the  Finns  to  subsidize  uncompetitive  grain  produc- 
tion rather  than  to  allow  further  specialization  in  dairy  and  meat 
operations.  Social  concerns  drove  policies  designed  to  maintain 
family  farms  and  to  give  farmers  incomes  and  working  conditions 
more  equal  to  those  of  other  workers.  The  desire  to  maintain  set- 
tlements in  the  sparsely  populated  northern  provinces  led  to  heavy 
subsidies  for  farmers  in  those  regions.  Other  goals  included  stabiliz- 
ing retail  food  prices  and  increasing  farm  size  and  efficiency. 

In  the  late  1980s,  agricultural  policy  made  involved  trade-offs 
among  these  partially  contradictory  objectives.  For  national  secu- 
rity reasons,  the  government  gave  priority  to  ensuring  self- 
sufficiency  in  basic  foodstuffs.  But  self-sufficiency,  like  other  farm- 
policy  goals,  resulted  in  costly  agricultural  surpluses  that  had  to 
be  dumped  on  international  markets.  Structural  reforms,  designed 
to  increase  farm  size,  could  improve  efficiency,  strengthen  family 


164 


The  Economy 


farms,  and  increase  farm  incomes,  but  they  were  difficult  to 
implement. 

By  the  early  1960s,  the  first  goal — self-sufficiency — had  been 
achieved.  By  the  late  1970s,  however,  surplus  production  had 
become  a  pressing  problem.  According  to  government  estimates 
made  in  the  early  1980s,  crop  productivity  would  increase  by  about 
1.5  percent  per  year,  and  productivity  in  animal  husbandry  would 
increase  by  about  0.5  percent  per  year.  Because  Finland's  consump- 
tion of  agricultural  products  was  stagnant,  crop  and  animal  sur- 
pluses would  therefore  continue  to  grow — unless  agricultural  prices 
were  reduced. 

In  the  late  1970s,  the  government  stepped  up  programs  designed 
to  encourage  farmers  to  shift  production  from  products  in  surplus, 
such  as  eggs,  milk,  and  meat,  to  products  that  replaced  imports, 
such  as  wheat,  sugar,  and  vegetables.  Starting  in  the  mid-1980s, 
worldwide  agricultural  surpluses  depressed  prices  and  made  agricul- 
tural exports  especially  expensive.  In  response,  the  government 
redoubled  its  efforts  to  control  output  and  to  encourage  reforesta- 
tion of  surplus  farmland.  This  policy  had  begun  to  maike  a  signifi- 
cant impact  by  1987. 

Agricultural  policy  centered  on  target  prices  set  by  the  Ministry 
of  Agriculture  and  Forestry  each  spring  and  fall,  after  negotiations 
with  the  MTK.  Administered  under  the  periodic  farm  income  acts, 
which  defined  general  rules  for  setting  farm  prices,  the  negotia- 
tions included  two  phases.  In  the  first  phase,  farmers  received  com- 
pensation for  increases  in  input  costs  according  to  a  formula  laid 
out  in  the  applicable  Farm  Income  Act.  In  the  second  phase,  the 
negotiations  addressed  how  much  farm  labor  would  be  paid.  In 
general,  farm  pay  settlements  reflected  nonagricultural  wage  agree- 
ments, and  they  were  based  on  estimated  hourly  wages  in  agricul- 
ture (see  Human  Resources,  this  ch.).  For  example,  in  the  spring 
of  1986  farmers  received  no  compensation  for  input  costs,  which 
had  been  stable  (largely  as  a  result  of  falling  world  energy  prices), 
but  they  did  achieve  a  6. 1  percent  increase  in  income,  much  higher 
than  the  2.4  percent  agreed  to  in  the  1986  framework  agreement 
for  other  workers.  Observers  considered  the  setdement  to  have  been 
generous,  but  perhaps  justified,  because  agriculture  remained  a 
low- wage  sector. 

Once  the  negotiation  process  had  determined  overall  farm 
income,  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Forestry  fixed  target  prices 
for  individual  crops.  In  response  to  overproduction  problems,  the 
ministry  reduced  prices  for  surplus  products  and  required  that  farm- 
ers pay  part  of  the  costs  of  subsidizing  exports.  Programs  to  reduce 


165 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

surpluses  by  lowering  target  prices  achieved  only  limited  results, 
however,  because  increases  in  productivity  often  outweighed 
declines  in  target  prices.  The  ministry  established  a  dual-price  sys- 
tem for  milk  and  eggs,  which  made  production  beyond  output  quo- 
tas unprofitable,  and  implemented  a  number  of  voluntary 
production  controls,  including  contracts  to  increase  fallow  land  or 
to  limit  production  of  milk,  beef,  pork,  and  eggs.  In  the  summer 
of  1987,  the  government  prohibited  clearing  fields,  introduced  mea- 
sures to  encourage  reforestation,  and  began  considering  heavier 
taxes  on  the  agricultural  earnings  of  part-time  farmers  as  well  as 
increased  pensions  for  farmers  who  agreed  to  retire  early. 

Subsidies  for  agricultural  consumption  were  partially  effective 
in  increasing  demand  for  surplus  products.  Health  concerns, 
however,  apparently  limited  consumers'  willingness  to  eat  more 
dairy  and  meat  products.  Surplus-reduction  measures  were  hav- 
ing some  effect  by  the  late  1980s,  but  in  1987  farm  surpluses  re- 
mained a  serious  problem. 

Structural  reforms  also  received  considerable  attention.  To  slow 
the  growth  of  large,  "industrial"  farms,  the  government  required 
licenses  for  farms  that  exceeded  certain  production  levels,  hoping 
that  limiting  the  size  of  farms  would  both  reduce  surpluses  and  help 
maintain  family  farms.  The  Agricultural  Development  Fund  pro- 
vided low-interest  loans  and  subsidies  for  investments  in  farm 
infrastructure;  most  of  the  loans  from  this  fund  went  to  farmers 
in  northern  Finland.  Small  farmers  who  wanted  to  enlarge  their 
farms  could  also  receive  low-interest  credits.  In  an  effort  to  keep 
new  farmers  from  falling  into  debt,  the  government  also  allowed 
farmers  under  the  age  of  thirty-five  to  apply  for  state  grants  when 
they  established  a  farm.  Moreover,  the  state  tried  to  make  farm- 
ing more  attractive  to  young  people  by  providing  outside  helpers 
to  take  over  farm  operations  temporarily.  This  arrangement  facili- 
tated maternity  leaves  and  even  annual  vacations. 

Farmer  training  programs,  crop  research,  and  extension  ser- 
vices helped  farmers  to  improve  agricultural  practices.  Local  schools 
provided  agricultural  training  for  youths  who  could  later  attend 
specialized  schools;  university  students  could  major  in  agriculture. 
The  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Forestry  and  the  universities 
undertook  research  projects  that  emphasized  the  development  of 
frost-resistant  crop  varieties.  The  ministry  also  administered 
extension  services  that  gave  technical  advice  and  communicated 
research  findings  to  farmers.  These  training  and  research  programs 
deserved  much  of  the  credit  for  the  progress  that  farmers  had 
achieved  during  the  postwar  period. 


166 


The  Economy 


Farm  Production  Patterns 

During  most  of  the  twentieth  century,  Finnish  farmers  have 
favored  raising  animals  over  growing  plants  for  human  consump- 
tion. These  preferences  resulted  in  part  from  the  country's  cUmate 
and  soils,  which  were  more  suitable  for  the  production  of  feed  for 
animsds  than  for  the  production  of  crops  for  human  consumption. 
The  small  size  of  many  farms  also  encouraged  the  emphasis  on 
milk,  eggs,  and  meat;  only  on  a  large  farm  could  a  family  earn 
sufficient  income  from  less  labor-intensive  field  crops.  Thus,  in  the 
late  1980s,  about  40  percent  of  farm  income  came  from  milk;  30 
percent,  from  meat;  9  percent,  from  grain;  5  percent,  from  eggs; 
and  16  percent,  from  other  products  (see  table  16,  Appendix  A). 

Regional  ecological  variations  influenced  the  distribution  of 
agricultural  production  (see  fig.  16).  In  the  southern  and  western 
parts  of  the  country,  where  the  climate  is  more  favorable  and  soils 
are  richer,  farmers  generally  produced  grain,  poultry,  and  pigs, 
while  in  the  north  and  the  east  they  specialized  in  hardier  root  crops 
and  in  dairying.  It  was  in  the  north,  too,  that  the  country's  200,000 
reindeer,  one-third  of  which  were  owned  by  Lapps,  were  raised. 

In  the  late  1980s,  cattle  operations  remained  the  mainstay  of 
farming,  but  Finland's  farmers  also  raised  pigs,  poultry,  and  other 
animals.  Most  pigs  were  raised  on  relatively  large,  specialized  farms. 
Poultry  production  increased  after  the  mid-1960s  to  accommodate 
an  increased  demand  for  meat.  A  more  recent  development,  a 
response  to  the  oversupply  of  traditional  animal  products,  was  a 
shift  to  fur  farming.  By  the  mid-1980s,  about  6,000  farms,  espe- 
cially those  in  Vaasa  Province  along  the  coast  of  the  Gulf  of  Both- 
nia, were  producing  a  substantial  share  of  the  world's  mink  and 
fox  furs  (see  fig.l).  The  Finns  exported  most  furs,  but  some  were 
used  domestically  in  luxury  clothing. 

About  85  percent  of  Finland's  arable  land  supplied  feed  for  farm 
animals.  Farmers  dedicated  more  than  30  percent  of  their  land  to 
hay,  silage  crops,  and  pasture  (see  table  17,  Appendix  A).  Grains, 
the  most  important  field  crop,  took  up  slightly  more  than  half  the 
country's  arable  land.  The  most  widely  planted  grain  crops — barley 
and  oats — were  used  primarily  to  feed  livestock.  Rutabagas  and 
mangels,  particularly  hardy  root  crops,  also  served  as  animal  feed. 

Despite  the  emphasis  on  producing  feed  for  livestock,  the  Finns 
made  substantial  efforts  to  ensure  supplies  of  basic  human  food- 
stuffs. By  the  1980s,  the  annual  wheat  and  rye  crops,  used  for  milk- 
ing bread,  met  domestic  demand  in  years  with  normal  harvests. 
Potatoes  produced  high  yields  even  in  the  north,  and  the  potato 
crop  was  usually  large  enough  for  domestic  needs.  Domestic 


167 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


\      1  Arable  land 
I      I  Forested  land 
—  Northern  boundary  of  forest 
I     i  Wasteland 
Barley 
Oats 
Wheat 
Sugar  beets 


Arctic  Circle 


Northern  boundary  of  fruit 
cultivation 


.  _  Northern  boundary  of  winter  rye 

—  Northern  boundary  of  sugar  beets 

  Southern  boundary  of  pasture  for 

reindeer 


A 


Alar)d  Islands 


HELSINKI 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  Statistisches,  Bundeszimt, 
Ldnderberricht  Finnland  1986,  Wiesbaden,  1986,  9 


Figure  16.  Agriculture  and  Forestry,  1985 


168 


The  Economy 


sugar  beets  provided  about  half  of  the  sugar  consumed  in  the  coun- 
try. Some  farmers,  especially  those  with  small  holdings  near  large 
cities,  specialized  in  growing  vegetables;  they  managed  to  raise  as 
much  as  80  percent  of  the  vegetables  consumed  in  Finland. 

Forestry 

Forests  played  a  key  role  in  the  country's  economy,  making  it 
one  of  the  world's  leading  wood  producers  and  providing  raw 
materials  at  competitive  prices  for  the  crucial  wood-processing 
industries.  As  in  agriculture,  the  government  had  long  played  a 
leading  role  in  forestry,  regulating  tree  cutting,  sponsoring  tech- 
nical improvements,  and  establishing  long-term  plans  to  ensure 
that  the  country's  forests  would  continue  to  supply  the  wood- 
processing  industries. 

Finland's  wet  climate  and  rocky  soils  are  ideal  for  forests.  Tree 
stands  do  well  throughout  the  country,  except  in  some  areas  north 
of  the  Arctic  Circle.  In  1980  the  forested  area  totaled  about  19.8 
million  hectares,  providing  4  hectares  of  forest  per  capita — far  above 
the  European  average  of  about  0.5  hectares.  The  proportion  of  forest 
land  varied  considerably  from  region  to  region.  In  the  central  lake 
plateau  and  in  the  eastern  and  northern  provinces,  forests  covered 
up  to  80  percent  of  the  land  area,  but  in  areas  with  better  condi- 
tions for  agriculture,  especially  in  the  southwest,  forests  accounted 
for  only  50  to  60  percent  of  the  territory.  The  main  commercial 
tree  species — pine,  spruce,  and  birch — supplied  raw  material  to 
the  sawmill,  pulp,  and  paper  industries.  The  forests  also  produced 
sizable  aspen  and  elder  crops. 

The  heavy  winter  snows  and  the  network  of  waterways  were  used 
to  move  logs  to  the  mills  (see  fig.  8).  Loggers  were  able  to  drag 
cut  trees  over  the  winter  snow  to  the  roads  or  water  bodies.  In  the 
southwest,  the  sledding  season  lasted  about  100  days  per  year;  the 
season  was  even  longer  to  the  north  and  the  east.  The  country's 
network  of  lakes  and  rivers  facilitated  log  floating,  a  cheap  and  rapid 
means  of  transport.  Each  spring,  crews  floated  the  logs  downstream 
to  collection  points;  tugs  towed  log  bundles  down  rivers  and  across 
lakes  to  processing  centers.  The  waterway  system  covered  much 
of  the  country,  and  by  the  1980s  Finland  had  extended  roadways 
and  railroads  to  areas  not  served  by  waterways,  effectively  open- 
ing up  all  of  the  country's  forest  reserves  to  commercial  use. 

Forestry  and  farming  were  closely  linked.  During  the  twentieth 
century,  government  land  redistribution  programs  had  made  forest 
ownership  widespread,  allotting  forestland  to  most  farms  (see 
Agriculture,  this  ch.;  The  Establishment  of  Finnish  Democracy, 
ch.  1;  Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics,  1948-66, 


169 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

ch.  1).  In  the  1980s,  private  farmers  controlled  35  percent  of  the 
country's  forests;  other  persons  held  27  percent;  the  government, 
24  percent;  private  corporations,  9  percent;  and  municipalities  and 
other  public  bodies,  5  percent.  The  forestlands  owned  by  farmers 
and  by  other  people — some  350,000  plots — were  the  best,  producing 
75  to  80  percent  of  the  wood  consumed  by  industry;  the  state  owned 
much  of  the  poorer  land,  especially  that  in  the  north. 

The  ties  between  forestry  and  farming  were  mutually  beneficial. 
Farmers  supplemented  their  incomes  with  earnings  from  selling 
their  wood,  caring  for  forests,  or  logging;  forestry  made  many  other- 
wise marginal  farms  viable.  At  the  same  time,  farming  communi- 
ties maintained  roads  and  other  infrastructure  in  rural  areas,  and 
they  provided  workers  for  forest  operations.  Indeed,  without  the 
farming  communities  in  sparsely  populated  areas,  it  would  have 
been  much  more  difficult  to  continue  intensive  logging  operations 
and  reforestation  in  many  prime  forest  areas. 

Finland's  government  monitored  and  influenced  all  aspects  of 
forestry.  The  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Forestry  was  responsi- 
ble for  preparing  and  implementing  forestry  legislation.  Subordinate 
to  the  ministry,  the  National  Board  of  Forestry  supervised  private 
forests  and  managed  state-owned  forests.  The  national  board  also 
maintained  liaison  with  the  two  central  forestry  boards,  which  in 
turn  controlled  a  total  of  nineteen  district  forestry  boards.  The  cen- 
tral and  the  district  boards  were  self-governing  bodies  comprising 
representatives  of  the  forest  owners,  wood-processing  industries, 
and  forestry  workers.  The  boards  supervised  forest  operations,  often 
working  in  cooperation  with  the  local  forest  management  associa- 
tions, which  were  entirely  controlled  and  financed  by  forest  owners. 

The  ministry  carried  out  forest  inventories  and  drew  up  silvicul- 
tural  plans.  According  to  surveys,  between  1945  and  the  late  1970s 
foresters  had  cut  trees  faster  than  the  forests  could  regenerate  them. 
Nevertheless,  between  the  early  1950s  and  1981 ,  Finland  was  able 
to  boost  the  total  area  of  its  forests  by  some  2.7  million  hectares 
and  to  increase  forest  stands  under  40  years  of  age  by  some  3.2 
million  hectares.  Beginning  in  1965,  the  country  instituted  plans 
that  called  for  expanding  forest  cultivation,  draining  peatland  and 
waterlogged  areas,  and  replacing  slow- growing  trees  with  faster- 
growing  varieties.  By  the  mid-1980s,  the  Finns  had  drained  5.5 
million  hectares,  fertilized  2.8  million  hectares,  and  cultivated  3.6 
million  hectares.  Thinning  increased  the  share  of  trees  that  would 
produce  suitable  lumber,  while  improved  tree  varieties  increased 
productivity  by  as  much  as  30  percent. 

Comprehensive  silvicultural  programs  had  made  it  possible  for 
the  Finns  simultaneously  to  increase  forest  output  and  to  add  to 


170 


Transporting  logs  from 

forest  to  factory  ^ 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


the  amount  and  value  of  the  growing  stock.  By  the  mid-1980s,  Fin- 
land's forests  produced  nearly  70  million  cubic  meters  of  new  wood 
each  year,  considerably  more  than  was  being  cut.  During  the  post- 
war period,  the  annual  cut  increased  by  about  120  percent  to  about 
50  million  cubic  meters.  Wood  burning  fell  to  one-fifth  the  level 
of  the  immediate  postwar  years,  freeing  up  wood  supplies  for  the 
wood-processing  industries,  which  consumed  between  40  million 
and  45  million  cubic  meters  per  year.  Indeed,  industry  demand 
was  so  great  that  Finland  needed  to  import  5  million  to  6  million 
cubic  meters  of  wood  each  year. 

To  maintain  the  country's  comparative  advantage  in  forest 
products,  Finnish  authorities  moved  to  raise  lumber  output  toward 
the  country's  ecological  limits.  In  1984  the  government  published 
the  Forest  2000  plan,  drawn  up  by  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and 
Forestry.  The  plan  aimed  at  increasing  forest  harvests  by  about 
3  percent  per  year,  while  conserving  foresdand  for  recreation  and 
other  uses.  It  also  called  for  enlarging  the  average  size  of  private 
forest  holdings,  increasing  the  area  used  for  forests,  and  extend- 
ing forest  cultivation  and  thinning.  If  successful,  the  plan  would 
make  it  possible  to  raise  wood  deliveries  by  roughly  one-third  by 
the  end  of  the  twentieth  century.  Finnish  officials  believed  that  such 
growth  was  necessary  if  Finland  was  to  maintain  its  share  in  world 
markets  for  wood  and  paper  products  (see  Wood-Processing 
Industries,  this  ch.). 


171 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 
Fisheries 

Unlike  other  Nordic  countries,  in  the  late  1980s  Finland  had  few 
fishermen,  and  the  fishing  industry  was  small.  Finland's  coastal 
waters  offered  poor  fishing  grounds  because  of  their  low  salt  con- 
tent (caused  by  the  heavy  flow  from  the  country's  many  rivers). 
Rivers  and  lakes  were  often  relatively  unproductive  because  stream 
runoff  often  contained  insufficient  nutrients.  In  addition,  those  in- 
land waterways  that  did  support  exploitable  fish  populations  were 
often  located  too  far  from  market  centers  to  make  commercial  fishing 
profitable.  Log-floating  operations  and  hydroelectric  installations 
disrupted  some  fishing  grounds,  and  the  paper  industry  polluted 
others. 

The  poverty  of  Finland's  waters  explained  why,  despite  consider- 
able government  aid,  relatively  few  Finns  were  fishermen.  In  1985, 
for  example,  only  2,200  fishermen  worked  full-time,  while  another 
5,000  worked  part-time;  they  used  a  fleet  of  about  530  boats.  That 
same  year,  the  fish  catch  totaled  some  111  ,000  tons,  of  which  rough- 
ly two- thirds  were  salt-water  fish,  and  one-third  were  fresh-water 
fish.  Baltic  herring  was  the  most  valuable  catch,  followed  by  salmon. 
A  share  of  the  catch  came  from  Soviet  and  Swedish  waters,  to  which 
Finland  had  gained  access  under  bilateral  agreements. 

Unable  to  meet  domestic  demand,  Finland  had  to  import  about 
300,000  tons  of  fish  each  year,  including  large  amounts  of  fish  offal 
that  was  used  as  feed  on  fur  farms.  Demand  for  fish  was  thus  rela- 
tively strong,  but  observers  believed  that,  given  the  country's  poor 
fisheries,  it  was  likely  that  the  small  fishing  industry  would  become 
even  smaller. 

Energy  and  Mineral  Resources 

Finland  lacked  petroleum,  gas,  and  co2il  reserves,  but  it  had  sig- 
nificant mineral  deposits.  As  in  many  industrisd  countries,  low- 
cost  imported  petroleum  fueled  economic  growth  from  the  end  of 
World  War  II  until  the  1973  oil  crisis.  Finland's  forest  industries, 
which  were  heavy  energy  users,  had  developed  in  the  context  of 
low  energy  prices.  Even  the  achievement  of  agricultural  self- 
sufficiency  owed  much  to  energy  imports,  in  the  form  of  either  fuel 
for  tractors  or  chemical  fertilizers.  From  the  1970s,  Finland's  econ- 
omy had  to  adjust  to  high  energy  costs.  Finnish  policy  makers  there- 
fore had  to  ensure  that  the  country  used  its  other  resources, 
including  its  mineral  deposits,  as  efficientiy  as  possible. 

Energy 

Even  before  the  1973  oil  crisis,  energy  was  a  major  concern,  and 


172 


Pyhdkoski  hydroelectric  power  plant,  one  of  the  largest  of  its  kind 
in  Finland,  located  about  twenty-five  kilometers  east  of  Oulu 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

Finland  had  started  energy- saving  programs  meant  to  cut  depen- 
dence on  imports  and  to  maintain  export  competitiveness. 
Nevertheless,  the  country  had  one  of  the  world's  highest  per  capi- 
ta rates  of  energy  consumption.  The  cold  climate  required  that  the 
Finns  expend  about  a  quarter  of  their  energy  supply  for  space  heat- 
ing, while  the  relatively  long  distances  separating  Finland's  settle- 
ments required  heavy  fuel  use  for  transportation.  The  importance 
of  energy-intensive  processing  industries,  including  not  only  the 
lumber,  pulp,  and  paper  sectors  but  also  the  minerals  and  basic 
metcds  sectors,  further  expanded  the  country's  energy  needs.  In 
the  late  1980s,  Finland  consumed  about  30  million  tons  of  oil 
equivalent  per  year,  distributed  among  solid  fuels  (15  percent), 
liquid  fuels  (40  percent),  and  electricity  (45  percent),  which  put 
annu2il  per  capita  consumption  at  0.6  tons  of  oil  equivalent — about 
50  percent  higher  than  per  capita  consumption  in  the  United  States. 

Domestic  sources  could  cover  only  about  30  percent  of  total  ener- 
gy demand,  and  imported  energy  supplied  the  remainder.  In  1986 
the  government  estimated  that,  even  assuming  continued  efforts 
at  conservation,  energy  demand  would  grow  by  at  least  1  percent 
per  year  during  the  1990s  and  that  demand  for  electricity  would 
grow  even  faster.  By  the  late  1980s,  policy  makers  faced  impor- 
tant choices  in  their  efforts  to  maintain  secure  supplies  of  electricity 


173 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

and  other  forms  of  energy.  Four  major  goals  governed  policy 
decisions:  increasing  the  use  of  domestic  energy  sources,  provid- 
ing for  possible  import  shortages,  expanding  electricity  production, 
and  improving  conservation  programs. 

The  state  played  a  strong  role  in  energy  management.  The 
government  used  state-owned  energy  enterprises  and  price  con- 
trols to  influence  both  production  and  consumption.  The  state 
owned  the  most  important  energy  supply  enterprises,  including 
Imatran  Voima,  the  largest  electricity  producer,  which  managed 
the  national  electricity  distribution  grid;  Kemijoki,  a  hydropower 
concern;  Neste,  which  controlled  the  import,  refining,  and  distri- 
bution of  petroleum  and  natural  gas;  and  Vapo,  a  producer  and 
distributor  of  peat  and  other  domestic  fuels.  Another  major  policy 
tool  was  the  control  of  energy  prices,  either  directly  or  by  means 
of  taxes  and  tariffs. 

Finland's  main  domestic  energy  sources  were  hydroelectric 
power,  peat,  and  wood.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  country's  large 
hydroelectric  potential  had  been  thoroughly  tapped,  except  possi- 
bly for  the  rivers  protected  by  environmental  legislation.  Neverthe- 
less, hydroelectric  production  could  still  be  increased  by  renovating 
existing  installations  and  by  building  additional  plants  at  secon- 
dary sites.  Encouraged  by  investment  subsidies  and  by  the  results 
of  state-funded  research,  Finland  had  begun  systematic  exploita- 
tion of  its  peat  reserves.  Peatlands  covered  more  than  one-third 
of  Finland's  surface  area,  but  in  the  mid-1980s  only  about  5  per- 
cent of  this  area  was  being  used.  The  government  hoped  to  more 
than  double  peat  output  by  the  year  2000.  Wood  was  widely  used 
for  heating  in  rural  areas,  especially  after  the  oil  price  increases 
of  the  1970s;  it  was  even  more  important  for  the  forest  industries, 
which  used  waste  wood  to  supply  about  60  percent  of  their  energy 
needs. 

Despite  increased  use  of  domestic  energy  sources,  the  economy 
depended  on  imports  of  petroleum,  coal,  natural  gas,  uranium, 
and  electricity.  Observers  expected  that  this  dependence  would  get 
worse  in  the  1990s  and  beyond  as  consumption  increased.  More- 
over, the  fall  in  world  petroleum  prices,  starting  in  the  early  and 
mid-1980s,  had  made  oil  imports  more  competitive  and  thus  might 
delay  investments  in  domestic  energy  sources. 

The  Soviet  Union  was  traditionally  Finland's  main  energy  sup- 
plier, providing  petroleum,  natural  gas,  electricity,  uranium,  and 
even  nuclear  fuel  reprocessing  services.  Energy  products  played 
an  important  role  in  Finnish-Soviet  trade,  accounting  for  about 
80  percent  of  Soviet  exports  to  Finland.  The  decline  in  world 
petroleum  prices  in  the  1980s  meant  that  Finland  had  to  increase 


174 


The  Economy 


the  volume  of  petroleum  imports  from  the  Soviet  Union  in  order 
to  maintain  the  level  of  sales  to  the  Soviet  market.  To  respond  to 
the  resulting  oversupply  of  crude  petroleum,  Neste  began  refining 
oil  for  export  (see  Regional  Economic  Integration,  this  ch.).  Fin- 
land's imports  of  Soviet  natural  gas  transited  a  pipeline  to  the 
southeastern  part  of  the  country,  with  branches  leading  to  the  Hel- 
sinki and  the  Tampere  areas.  In  the  late  1980s,  Finland  partici- 
pated in  discussions  regarding  the  construction  of  a  Nordic  gas 
pipeline  network  that  was  designed  primarily  to  transport  Soviet 
gas  to  other  Nordic  countries  but  that  might  also  carry  Norwegian 
gas  to  Finland. 

The  Finns  reduced  their  dependence  on  Soviet  energy  by 
patronizing  other  suppliers.  For  example,  during  the  late  1980s, 
the  Finns  began  importing  cocd  not  only  from  Poland  and  the  Soviet 
Union  but  also  from  the  United  States,  Colombia,  and  Australia. 
Coal  imports  had  declined  in  the  late  1970s  as  a  result  of  rapid 
increases  in  the  generation  of  electricity  from  nuclear  plants,  but 
they  rose  again  by  the  mid-1980s  to  some  5  million  tons  per  year. 
Finland  also  purchased  electricity  from  Sweden,  and  the  Finns  were 
interested  in  finding  other  sources  for  electricity  imports. 

To  reduce  further  their  vulnerability  to  cutoffs  of  foreign  energy 
supplies,  the  Finns  also  undertook  an  energy  stockpiling  program. 
Informed  observers  believed  that  the  country  maintained  stocks 
sufficient  to  supply  it  for  six  months,  which  compared  favorably 
with  stockpiles  held  by  other  industrial  countries. 

Experts  predicted  that  Finland  would  face  an  electricity  short- 
age by  the  mid-1990s,  unless  additional  generating  capacity  came 
into  operation  by  then.  Electricity  consumption  had  grown  faster 
than  energy  use  as  a  whole  during  the  1980s,  largely  because  more 
and  more  households  had  switched  to  electric  heating.  In  the  late 
1980s,  most  observers  expected  that  demand  would  rise  by  2  to 
3  percent  per  year  until  the  year  2000.  Finland's  growing  needs 
for  electric  power  spurred  attempts  to  increase  domestic  generat- 
ing capacity,  which  in  early  1986  had  reached  10,700  megawatts. 
In  the  late  1980s,  hydroelectric  plants  supplied  approximately  30 
percent  of  total  electric  power.  Finland  produced  about  41  percent 
of  its  electricity  at  four  nuclear  power  plants  built  between  1977 
and  1980:  two  Swedish-made,  660-megawatt,  boiling-water  reac- 
tors on  the  island  of  Olkiluoto;  and  two  Soviet-made,  440-megawatt, 
pressurized-water  reactors  at  Loviisa.  Conventional  thermal  plants 
accounted  for  another  22  percent  of  electricity  production,  and 
imports  from  neighbors  covered  the  remaining  6  percent. 

In  early  1986,  the  Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industry  prepared  a 
plan  for  the  1990s  that  called  for  increasing  installed  electrical 


175 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

capacity  by  about  2,700  megawatts  by  the  year  2000.  About  1,200 
megawatts  of  the  new  capacity  was  to  come  from  small  plants  scat- 
tered around  the  country.  Another  1,500  megawatts  would  have 
to  come  from  large  plants — peat-fired,  coal-fired,  and  nuclear. 
According  to  the  plan,  Finland  could  either  import  another  500 
megawatts  from  the  Soviet  Union  or  further  expand  nuclear 
capacity. 

In  the  spring  of  1986,  the  Eduskunta  almost  approved  the  plan, 
including  the  construction  of  a  fifth  nuclear  plant.  Public  reaction 
to  the  nuclear  disaster  at  Chernobyl  in  the  Soviet  Union  froze  con- 
sideration of  nuclear  power,  however,  and  induced  a  complete 
review  of  energy  policy.  Public  pressure  caused  the  government 
to  replace  the  proposed  plant  with  coal-fired  plants.  Despite  this 
setback  to  the  nuclear  industry,  informed  observers  believed  it  prob- 
able that  Finland  would  increase  its  nuclear  capacity  in  the  1990s, 
once  public  opposition  had  died  down. 

Since  the  1970s,  the  government  has  made  considerable  efforts 
to  spur  energy  conservation.  Domestic  energy  prices  have  been 
maintained  at  realistic  levels — gasoline  prices  were  among  the 
highest  in  all  European  countries — encouraging  the  public  to  con- 
serve. The  government  raised  energy  efficiency  standards  for  home 
construction  and  renovation,  cutting  energy  use  for  heating  by  30 
to  40  percent  over  a  decade.  Finland  pioneered  the  development 
of  district  heating,  which  used  otherwise-wasted  energy  from  power 
plants.  Observers  predicted  that  this  efficient  source  of  domestic 
heat  would  supply  half  the  country's  homes  by  the  year  2000. 
Environmentalists  believed  that  further  energy  savings  could  be 
achieved  that  would  reduce  the  need  for  building  more  power  plants, 
but  mainstream  opinion  supported  continued  increases  in  energy 
production  to  support  economic  growth.  Yet  no  matter  how  much 
Finland  conserved,  the  country  would  still  need  to  import  large 
amounts  of  energy  and  would  face  difficult  trade-offs  between  the 
benefits  and  the  risks  and  costs  of  various  energy  options. 

Minerals 

Finland  contained  only  limited  mineral  deposits,  and  it  coninued 
to  be  only  a  modest  producer  of  minerals.  The  country's  most  im- 
portant deposits  were  located  at  Outokumpu  in  eastern  Finland 
(see  fig.  17).  Discovered  in  1910,  the  Outokumpu  area  contained 
commercially  exploitable  deposits  of  copper,  iron,  sulfur,  zinc, 
cobalt,  nickel,  gold,  and  silver.  In  1953  prospectors  discovered  a 
major  source  of  iron  ore  at  Otanmaki  in  centrEil  Finland.  Other 
sites  yielded  nonmetallic  minerals,  including  pyrites  and  apatite 
(a  low-grade  phosphoric  ore  used  for  fertilizer  production),  and 


176 


Nuclear  power  plant  at  Loviisa  (Louisa)  on  the  southern  coast, 
about  seventy-five  kilometers  east  of  Helsinki 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

stone  for  building.  The  mineral  industry  employed  more  than 
60,000  people,  but  only  500  of  them  were  in  mining  and  quarry- 
ing; the  others  worked  in  mineral  processing. 

The  government  intervened  directly  in  the  minercd  sector.  Un- 
der Finnish  law,  the  Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industry  controlled 
prospecting  and  mining  rights.  The  ministry's  Geological  Survey 
dominated  prospecting,  and  it  had  made  most  major  miner2J  dis- 
coveries. The  ministry  controlled  most  production  through  joint- 
stock  companies,  in  which  the  state  owned  most  or  all  of  the  shares, 
but  in  which  the  management  ran  the  companies  much  like  pri- 
vate firms.  The  industry  comprised  two  large,  state-controlled  com- 
panies, the  Outokumpu  Group  and  Rautaruukki,  and  a  number 
of  sm2iller,  generally  private  companies.  The  Outokumpu  Group, 
by  far  the  largest  producer,  operated  the  Outokumpu  mines,  as 
well  as  others  producing  cadmium,  chromite,  ferrochrome,  mer- 
cury, pyrite,  and  zinc.  The  company  also  invested  in  foreign  mines 
and  produced  mining  equipment.  Rautaruukki  controlled  the  Otan- 
maki  iron  mine,  other  mines  producing  cobsJt,  quartz,  and  vanadi- 
um, and  Finland's  largest  steel  plant. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  Finland  had  exploited  most  of  its  limited 
mineral  deposits  and  had  to  work  hard  to  supply  its  processing 
industries.  The  Geological  Survey  had  undertaken  an  extensive 


177 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

exploration  program  to  find  new  resources.  Finnish  firms  had  pur- 
chased interests  in  mineral  operations  in  other  Scandinavian  coun- 
tries, and  they  had  participated  in  joint  ventures  with  Soviet 
enterprises  to  exploit  the  rich  mineral  deposits  on  the  Kola  Penin- 
sula. The  leading  companies  had  also  developed  vertically  integrated 
structures,  investing  in  all  stages  of  metal  production  from  the  de- 
sign and  production  of  mining  equipment  to  metal  processing.  The 
Outokumpu  Group,  for  example,  was  one  of  the  few  firms  in  the 
world  that  controlled  all  aspects  of  the  production  of  stainless  steel. 
Industry  leaders  hoped  that,  as  mining  output  fell  during  the  later 
years  of  the  twentieth  century,  overseas  investments  and  vertical 
integration  would  make  it  possible  to  maintain  employment  despite 
the  exhaustion  of  domestic  mineral  resources. 

Industry 

Although  industrial  development  began  later  in  Finland  than  it 
did  in  many  other  European  countries,  by  the  1950s  manufactur- 
ing and  processing  had  replaced  agriculture  and  forestry  as  the  lead- 
ing sectors  of  the  economy.  By  the  late  1970s,  the  service  sector 
had  surpassed  industry  in  total  production  and  employment,  but 
industry  remained  the  main  export  earner,  allowing  the  country 
to  pay  for  needed  imports  of  energy  and  raw  materials.  Labor  ef- 
ficiency was  greater  in  industry  than  it  was  in  the  economy  as  a 
whole — the  one-third  of  the  work  force  employed  in  industry 
produced  about  40  percent  of  GDP — and  it  continued  to  grow  at 
a  higher  rate  here  than  it  did  in  other  sectors.  In  turn,  industrial 
wages  tended  to  be  higher  and  to  rise  faster  than  the  national  aver- 
age, making  industricd  jobs  attractive.  Thus,  although  some 
observers  categorized  Finland  as  a  postindustrial  society,  the  Finns 
strove  to  maintain  industrial  competitiveness,  which  they  saw  as 
the  foundation  for  their  high  standard  of  living.  By  the  early  1980s, 
however,  as  a  result  of  the  oil  crises  of  the  1970s  and  the  increased 
competition  in  world  markets  for  manufactured  goods,  Finnish 
industry  faced  serious  challenges.  Many  observers  argued  that  to 
maintain  industrial  exports,  the  Finns  would  have  to  shift  from 
heavy  industry  to  high- technology  products. 

The  geographical  distribution  of  industry  had  been  strongly 
influenced  by  the  relative  shortage  of  raw  materials  (other  than  lum- 
ber) and  by  the  small  size  of  the  domestic  market.  The  wood- 
processing  industries  had  grown  up  on  rivers  near  the  coast  of  the 
Gulf  of  Bothnia  and  the  Gulf  of  Finland,  in  locations  that  offered 
sources  of  both  lumber  and  hydroelectric  power  as  well  as  access 
to  foreign  markets.  As  many  raw  materials  were  imported  and  most 
industrial  production  was  exported,  other  industries  had  grown 


178 


The  Economy 


up  in  the  four  southern  provinces,  especially  near  Finland's  main 
harbors  along  the  southern  coast.  Although  the  government  had 
implemented  policies  that  favored  development  in  the  north  dur- 
ing the  postwar  period,  in  the  late  1980s  more  than  70  percent  of 
industrial  jobs  were  still  located  in  the  south.  In  the  long  run,  the 
development  of  high-technology  industries,  less  dependent  on  trans- 
portation and  energy  supplies,  might  facilitate  efforts  to  decentralize 
industry,  but  such  development  would  be  gradual. 

Once  dominated  by  the  forest  industries,  Finnish  industry 
underwent  rapid  structural  change  after  World  War  II.  A  boom 
in  metalworking  began  in  the  immediate  postwar  years  in  response 
to  the  need  to  ship  capital  goods,  including  machine  tools,  ships, 
rolling  stock,  and  chemicals,  to  the  Soviet  Union  (see  The  Effects 
of  the  War,  ch.  1).  By  the  mid-1950s,  heavy  industry  had  taken 
over  the  leading  role  traditionally  held  by  wood  products.  Begin- 
ning in  1957,  Finland  began  to  liberalize  its  trade  policies,  forcing 
domestic  industry  to  compete  in  world  markets  and  bringing  new 
industries  to  the  fore,  especially  metalworking  and  engineering, 
but  also  petroleum  refining,  chemicals,  plastics,  and  high- technology 
goods  (see  table  18,  Appendix  A). 

Guided  by  domestic  and  foreign  tastes  and  by  fierce  international 
competition,  industrial  firms  had  developed  a  wide  range  of  products 
and  had  maintained  quality  standards  that  were  often  higher  than 
those  typical  of  industry  in  the  United  States.  Aware  of  the  rela- 
tively small  size  of  their  industry,  industrial  leaders  and  govern- 
ment officials  aimed  successfully  for  technological  leadership  in 
narrowly  defined  subsectors  in  which  Finland  enjoyed  compara- 
tive advantages.  Since  the  1950s,  Finnish  firms  have  been  able  to 
dominate  world  markets  for  products  such  as  icebreakers,  wood- 
processing  and  paper-processing  machinery,  and  environmental 
protection  equipment.  Buyers  of  such  products  were  often  less  sen- 
sitive to  price  increases  than  they  were  to  technical  innovations, 
quality,  and  durability.  At  the  same  time,  Finland  had  avoided 
some  of  the  structural  weaknesses,  such  as  excessive  investments 
in  declining  product  lines,  that  plagued  the  other  Nordic  economies. 

Finland's  industrial  structure  traditionally  was  polarized  between 
large  and  small  firms.  In  the  early  1980s,  the  vast  majority  of  Fin- 
land's 15,000  industrial  firms  each  employed  fewer  than  100  peo- 
ple. These  small  firms  accounted  for  only  about  one-fifth  of  the 
industrial  work  force  and  for  slightly  more  than  one-fifth  of  the 
value  of  industrial  output.  The  approximately  130  firms  that 
employed  more  than  500  people  apiece  commanded  about  60  per- 
cent of  the  labor  force  and  produced  about  two-thirds  of  indus- 
trial output.  During  the  mid-1980s  and  the  late  1980s,  a  wave  of 


179 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


(Au) 

Gold 

(c?) 

Chrome 

(§) 

Copper 

(g) 

Iron 

® 

Nickel 

Pyrites 

© 

Vanadium 

@ 

Zinc 

C 

Chemical 
industry 

H 

Wood-working 

in/Hi  ictr\/ 
II  lUUoll  y 

p 

Paper  industry 

L 

Iron  and  steel 
industry 

M 

Metal-working 
industry 

Shipbuilding 

tl 

Petroleum 
refinery 

Vaasa 


kland  Islands  ^f^^  M  (Zn)(Cu 


Hanko 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Federal  Republic  of  Germany,  Statistisches  Bundesamt, 
Ldnderbericht  Finnland,  1986,  Wiesbaden,  1986,  9. 


Figure  17.  Minerals  and  Industries,  1985 


180 


The  Economy 


mergers  further  reduced  the  market  share  of  small  firms.  Although 
industry  was  thus  quite  concentrated,  the  flexibility  and  innovative- 
ness  of  small  firms  had  often  proven  cruciad,  and  observers  believed 
that  small  firms  would  continue  to  serve  important  entrepreneuri- 
al functions. 

Despite  many  notable  successes,  industry  faced  new  difficul- 
ties in  the  1970s  and  the  1980s,  in  addition  to  increases  in  world 
energy  prices.  By  the  late  1970s,  industrial  firms  faced  tougher 
foreign  competition  and  had  to  scramble  to  maintain  their  shares 
of  export  markets.  To  ensure  competitiveness,  industry  needed  to 
renovate  existing  plants  and  to  increase  sharply  investments  in 
high-technology  product  lines  that  could  supplement  traditional 
specialties. 

Industrial  capital  formation  was  a  major  priority.  Although  Fin- 
land's relatively  recent  industrial  development  meant  that  many 
industrial  facilities  were  still  relatively  new  and  efficient,  the  drive 
to  develop  high-technology  production  required  massive  invest- 
ments. Industrial  firms  carried  a  debt  load  that  averaged  about 
80  percent  of  total  assets,  making  further  investment  difficult.  In 
the  late  1980s,  however,  a  number  of  developments  promised  to 
improve  industrial  financing.  Helsinki's  financial  markets  were 
becoming  more  innovative,  and  informed  observers  expected  that 
the  state  would  cut  taxes  on  corporate  profits,  would  eliminate  taxes 
on  industricd  energy  consumption,  and  would  increase  tax  credits 
offered  for  research  and  development  expenditures  (see  Bank- 
ing and  Finance,  this  ch.).  Despite  these  positive  developments, 
however,  industry  needed  to  attract  more  resources  from  abroad 
if  it  were  to  remain  competitive  in  world  markets. 

Finland's  industry  had  long  depended  on  world  markets,  but 
until  the  1980s  direct  foreign  investment  in  Finland  had  played 
only  a  minor  role.  The  country  hosted  significantly  fewer  foreign 
firms  than  its  Nordic  neighbors,  partly  as  a  result  of  limitations 
on  foreign  ownership  of  Finnish  assets.  Such  regulations  had  been 
relaxed  after  1980,  but  foreign  firms  still  controlled  only  about  5 
percent  of  industrial  capacity.  Finnish  firms  likewise  began  to  in- 
vest abroad  in  the  1970s.  Thus,  whereas  in  1970  only  5  Finnish 
firms  had  invested  in  the  United  States,  by  1987  about  250  had 
done  so.  By  the  late  1980s,  internationalization  had  begun  to  sup- 
plant the  traditional  strategy  of  specialization,  as  more  and  more 
firms  entered  joint  ventures  with  foreign  partners  and  built  plants 
in  countries  to  which  they  exported.  The  trend  toward  internation- 
alization offered  the  prospect  that  Finland  would  be  able  to  attract 
additional  capital  and  up-to-date  technologies. 


181 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Industrial  Policy 

The  state  had  played  an  important  role  in  Finland's  industrial 
development,  but  it  did  not  intervene  directly  so  much  as  many 
other  European  governments.  Intervention  in  industry  began  in 
the  mid-nineteenth  century,  and  it  increased  over  time.  Tariff  policy 
and  government  procurement,  the  latter  being  especially  impor- 
tant during  the  two  world  wars,  furthered  the  development  of 
manufacturing.  The  government's  influence  was  probably  most 
important  in  the  years  after  1944,  when  Finlgmd  struggled  to  make 
reparations  payments  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Partially  as  a  legacy 
of  this  period,  the  state  controlled  companies  that  owned  about  15 
percent  of  manufacturing  capacity,  employed  about  14  percent  of 
the  work  force,  and  contributed  about  25  percent  of  industrial  value 
added.  The  state  was  especially  active  in  sectors  requiring  heavy 
investments,  such  as  basic  metals  and  shipbuilding.  These  state- 
owned  firms,  however,  did  not  receive  government  subsidies;  if 
unprofitable,  they  failed.  Thus,  while  the  state  controlled  most  prices 
and  implemented  long-term  sectoral  plans  in  agriculture,  forestry, 
energy,  and  minerals,  state-owned  firms  in  manufacturing  remained 
largely  free  to  manage  their  own  affairs. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Finnish  industrial  policy  continued  to  be  consi- 
derably less  interventionist  than  the  policies  of  most  West  European 
countries.  The  government's  strategy  for  industries  that  were  having 
difficulty  favored  rationalization  and  restructuring  instead  of  sub- 
sidies. Industry  was  encouraged  to  step  up  investments  to  increase 
productivity  and  to  arrange  mergers  with  domestic  and  foreign 
interests  to  increase  efficiency.  Policy  makers  argued  that  indus- 
try, as  a  small  sector  (compared  with  that  of  many  other  countries) 
open  to  private  investment  but  dependent  on  exports,  must  adjust 
to  international  conditions. 

Despite  this  hands-off  approach,  the  government  did  subsidize 
the  research  and  development  of  new  industrial  technologies. 
Research  and  development  expenditures  had  remained  low  until  the 
1980s,  reaching  only  slightly  more  than  1  percent  of  GNP  in  1980. 
After  that  time,  however,  the  government  increased  such  spending, 
which  exceeded  2  percent  of  GNP  by  the  late  1980s.  The  State  Tech- 
nical Resecirch  Institute  in  Otaniemi,  founded  in  1942,  played  an 
important  role  in  providing  industry  with  up-to-date  information 
on  new  technologies;  its  maritime  engineering  laboratory  was  one 
of  the  largest  and  best  equipped  in  the  world.  In  1984  the  Ministry 
of  Trade  and  Industry  initiated  a  four-year  program  of  research  on 
target  technologies,  including  applications  of  laser  technology  to  ma- 
chine engineering,  advanced  measurement  techniques,  and  offshore 


182 


Pulp  mill  and  paper  factory  at  Mdnttd  in  the  province  of  Hdme 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

construction  techniques  for  arctic  conditions.  The  government  also 
sponsored  technology  parks,  such  as  the  one  at  Oulu,  that  provid- 
ed facilities  for  cooperative  research  projects  involving  industry  and 
local  universities.  In  addition,  investments  in  technical  training 
promised  a  continuing  supply  of  workers  able  to  maintain  the  qual- 
ity, durability,  and  dependability  of  Finnish  industrial  goods. 

Wood-Processing  Industries 

Wood  processing  has  long  been  the  mainstay  of  the  Finnish  econ- 
omy. Facilitated  by  extensive  timber  supplies,  convenient  trans- 
portation, and  abundant  water  power,  lumbering  and  papermaking 
developed  rapidly  after  1860  to  meet  growing  European  demand 
for  paper  products  and  lumber.  Production  and  export  patterns 
established  before  1900  lasted  until  the  second  half  of  the  twen- 
tieth century;  in  the  1950s,  wood  and  paper  products  accounted 
for  some  80  percent  of  total  exports.  By  the  1980s,  however, 
although  the  sector  had  continued  to  expand  in  absolute  terms, 
its  share  of  exports  had  fallen  to  about  40  percent  as  a  result  of 
the  rapid  growth  of  the  metalworking  sector,  which  had  surpassed 
woodworking  in  both  value  added  and  employment  in  1969. 

Despite  this  relative  decline,  forest  products  were  still  the  coun- 
try's most  important  earner  of  foreign  exchange  in  the  late  1980s. 


183 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Roughly  four-fifths  of  wood  and  paper  production  was  sold  abroad, 
while  most  raw  materials — including  energy — were  produced  at 
home;  and,  although  the  sector  contributed  only  about  one-fifth 
of  industrial  value  added,  it  still  accounted  for  about  one-quarter 
of  industrial  employment. 

Analysts  conventionally  divided  the  woodworking  industries  into 
two  branches,  mechanical  and  chemical,  depending  on  the  primary 
means  of  processing  in  each  branch.  The  mechanical  branch  com- 
prised milling,  manufacturing  of  plywood  and  particle  board,  and 
fabrication  of  furniture  and  building  components.  In  1986  the 
branch  included  some  200  large  sawmills  that  produced  most  exports 
and  some  6,000  small  mills  that  met  local  needs.  Products  of  the 
chemical  branch  included  pulp  and  paper,  cardboard,  and  pack- 
aging matericds.  In  1986  the  chemical  branch  encompassed  twenty- 
four  pulp  mills,  thirty  paper  plants,  and  sixteen  cardboard  facto- 
ries. The  division  between  the  two  branches  was  somewhat  artifi- 
cial, however,  as  many  leading  firms  operated  integrated  plants 
in  which  sawdust,  waste  wood,  and  chemical  byproducts  of  mechan- 
ical processes  served  as  raw  materials  for  such  chemical  products 
as  pulp  and  turpentine.  Industrial  waste  also  supplied  a  large  share 
of  the  industry's  needed  energy,  making  the  chemical  branch  self- 
sufficient  and  reducing  the  energy  demands  of  the  mechanical 
branch. 

Finnish  manufacturers  had  long  been  leaders  in  developing  new 
wood-processing  technologies.  Several  firms  had  developed  their 
own  shops  for  machine  building,  and  their  highly  efficient  paper- 
making  equipment  had  captured  an  important  share  of  world 
markets. 

In  the  1980s,  Finland's  wood  industries  experienced  increasing 
difficulties  in  exporting,  largely  as  a  result  of  rising  input  costs. 
Wages  and  stumpage  (value  of  standing  timber)  rates  were  tradi- 
tionally higher  in  Finland  than  they  were  in  many  competitor  coun- 
tries. Moreover,  by  the  early  1990s  analysts  believed  that  the 
mechanical  branch,  which  consumed  about  one-third  of  Finland's 
electricity,  might  face  an  energy  shortage  because  of  the  1986 
decision  not  to  build  a  fifth  nuclear  plant  (see  Energy,  this  ch.). 
In  response,  firms  modernized  their  plants  and  shifted  to  higher- 
value-added  products. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  interfirm  cooperation  and  a  wave  of  mergers 
resulted  in  concentration  of  production  at  a  smaller  number  of 
centers,  and  observers  expected  that  industry  restructuring  would 
continue  into  the  1990s.  An  increasing  tendency  to  build  plants 
overseas,  which  improved  access  to  Finland's  main  markets,  com- 
plemented the  merger  drive.  The  government  had  stepped  in  with 


184 


The  Economy 


the  Forest  2000  program  and  with  a  system  of  tax  incentives  for 
logging,  both  of  which  were  designed  to  allow  wood  harvests  to 
increase  by  about  3  percent  per  year  until  the  end  of  the  century 
(see  Forestry,  this  ch,).  By  1986,  moreover,  representatives  for 
workers  and  landowners,  apparently  recognizing  some  of  the 
difficulties  faced  by  the  industry,  had  negotiated  decreases  in  both 
wages  and  stumpage  prices. 

Metal  Industries 

The  metal  industries  led  Finland's  postwar  economic  develop- 
ment, and  they  were  crucial  to  the  country's  economic  health.  Until 
World  War  II,  Finland  generally  produced  relatively  unsophisti- 
cated goods  for  domestic  consumption.  The  country's  shortages 
of  energy,  basic  metals,  and  capital  accounted  for  the  sector's  slow 
development.  Although  Finland  had  produced  ships  and  other  cap- 
ital goods  for  the  Russian  market  since  the  late  nineteenth  century, 
the  real  breakthrough  came  after  1944.  Then  the  metalworking  in- 
dustry, goaded  by  Soviet  reparations  demands,  overcame  its  han- 
dicaps, sharply  increasing  both  the  the  quantity  and  quality  of 
output.  Reparations  deliveries  ended  in  1952,  but  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion continued  to  absorb  Finnish  metal  goods.  By  the  late  1950s, 
Finland  had  built  an  efficient  and  innovative  metEil working  sector. 

In  the  1960s,  the  metalworking  sector,  stimulated  by  the  effects 
of  trade  liberalization,  embarked  on  an  export  drive  in  Western 
markets.  Domestic  demand  rose  as  a  result  of  both  the  expansion 
of  the  forest  and  the  chemical  industries  and  major  infrastructure 
projects.  Throughout  the  1960s  and  the  1970s,  the  sector  prospered, 
growing  at  an  average  annual  rate  of  over  6  percent,  higher  than 
the  rates  of  other  industrizd  sectors.  The  strategy  of  specializing 
in  a  small  number  of  products  in  which  the  country  already  pos- 
sessed a  comparative  advantage  paid  off  in  export  markets.  Fin- 
nish design,  which  integrated  ergonomics,  durability,  and  attractive 
appearance,  also  helped  maintain  sales.  Thus,  the  sector  was  rela- 
tively well  prepared  to  respond  in  the  1970s,  when  rapid  increases 
in  energy  prices,  competition  from  newly  industrialized  countries, 
and  worldwide  improvements  in  capital-goods  technologies  threat- 
ened profitability. 

Beginning  in  the  mid-1970s,  metalworking,  like  the  forest  in- 
dustries, underwent  a  period  of  intense  rationalization  and 
restructuring — with  only  limited  state  help.  By  the  late  1980s,  it 
appeared  that  the  sector  was  well  on  the  way  to  transforming  itself 
to  meet  the  conditions  of  high  energy  costs.  Indeed,  metalworking 
grew  faster  in  Finland  than  it  did  in  most  industrialized  countries, 
and  it  remained  Finland's  leading  industrial  sector. 


185 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Finnish  analysts  divided  the  sector  into  four  branches:  basic 
metals,  machine  building,  trsinsport  equipment,  and  electrical 
equipment.  Although  many  companies  were  active  in  more  than 
one  branch,  the  categories  provide  a  useful  framework  for  review- 
ing industrial  developments. 

Basic  Metals 

Domestic  ore  could  not  meet  industrial  demand,  but  the  effi- 
cient metal-processing  branch,  which  had  developed  some  of  the 
world's  most  advanced  technologies,  provided  a  firm  foundation 
for  the  production  of  more  advanced  goods  (see  Minerals,  this  ch.). 
State-owned  firms  (and  firms  in  which  the  state  owned  a  majority 
interest)  led  the  development  of  metcils  production.  The 
Rautaruukki  works  at  Raahe  in  northern  Finland,  for  example, 
was  the  main  producer  of  iron  and  steel.  The  state  and  major 
engineering  firms  jointly  owned  the  enterprise,  an  arrangement 
that  ensured  that  the  works  responded  well  to  the  needs  of  indus- 
tries using  their  products.  The  works  remained  profitable  during 
the  late  1970s  and  the  early  1980s,  a  period  marked  by  the  decline 
of  the  European  steel  industries.  This  success  was  due  not  only  to 
adept  management  but  also  to  good  labor  relations.  Likewise,  the 
state-owned  Outokumpu  Group,  which  possessed  flash- smelting 
technology  that  gave  it  a  major  advantage  during  the  mid-1980s, 
controlled  much  nonferrous  metals  production.  While  most  of  Fin- 
land's iron  and  steel  were  used  at  home,  most  of  its  copper,  zinc, 
and  nickel  were  exported. 

Machine  Building 

Based  on  sophisticated  technologies  and  on  careful  specializa- 
tion, machine  building  was  an  essential  complement  to  other 
industries,  but  it  was  growing  slowly  by  the  late  1980s.  Employ- 
ing about  one-third  of  the  metalworkers,  the  sector  concentrated 
on  such  product  lines  as  sawmill  and  papermill  machinery  and  min- 
ing equipment.  By  the  late  1980s,  Finland  had  captured  about  one- 
fifth  of  the  world  market  for  papermaking  equipment,  and  it  led 
in  selected  metal-processing  technologies.  The  branch  also  had 
increased  its  capability  to  produce  cranes,  lifts,  hoists,  forklifts,  and 
cargo-handling  vehicles.  Another  strong  point  was  agricultural  and 
forestry  machinery,  including  tractors,  combines,  and  logging 
machines,  of  which  Finland  was  the  largest  producer  in  Nordic 
Europe.  As  Finland's  economy  matured,  however,  investment  in 
capital  goods  declined,  forcing  the  sector  to  search  for  markets 
abroad.  Although  Finnish  equipment  enjoyed  a  strong  reputation 
abroad,  demand  for  the  country's  specialties  was  limited. 


186 


The  Economy 


Transport  Equipment 

Shipbuilding,  which  had  led  the  development  of  heavy  indus- 
try, continued  to  be  the  most  important  branch  of  the  transport 
sector,  and  it  determined  the  sector's  health.  The  land  transporta- 
tion branch,  however,  led  by  exports  of  railroad  locomotives  and 
rolling  stock  to  the  Soviet  Union,  provided  a  valuable  supplement 
to  shipbuilding.  Finlaind  first  began  to  produce  automobiles  in  1969, 
and  it  had  developed  a  full  range  of  vehicles. 

By  the  late  1980s,  Finland's  shipbuilding  industry  ranked  fifteenth 
worldwide.  The  country  boasted  eight  major  shipyards,  which  em- 
ployed about  14,000  highly  skilled  workers.  Unlike  many  other 
countries  (including  nearby  Norway),  Finland  had  avoided  large 
investments  in  petroleum  tankers,  a  choice  that  proved  to  be  a  bless- 
ing when  the  world  tanker  market  slumped  in  the  late  1970s. 
Instead,  Finland  had  specialized  in  high-priced  vessels  such  as 
icebreakers,  luxury  liners,  car  ferries,  ocean  exploration  vessels, 
and  container  ships.  Starting  in  the  1970s,  shipbuilders  also  had 
branched  out  into  offshore  oil-drilling  platforms  and  equipment. 
Finnish  icebreakers  were  world-famous — the  country  had  produced 
about  60  percent  of  all  icebreakers  in  service  by  the  late  1980s.  Fin- 
land also  specialized  in  vessels  designed  to  operate  in  arctic  condi- 
tions. Such  projects  were  well  suited  to  Finnish  expertise,  and  they 
yielded  higher-value-added  products  that  compensated  for  high 
input  costs. 

Shipyards  exported  up  to  80  percent  of  their  production,  which 
made  them  heavily  dependent  on  world  market  developments.  The 
shipbuilding  industry  had  survived  the  difficult  years  following  the 
1973  and  the  1979  oil  shocks  without  subsidies  from  the  govern- 
ment (except  for  occasional  favorable  financial  packages);  these 
years  had  seen  a  wave  of  mergers  and  large-scale  investments  that 
had  improved  competitiveness.  Above  all,  the  industry  owed  its 
success  to  continued  orders  from  the  Soviet  Union  in  a  period  when 
demand  lagged  in  Western  markets.  Finland  was  thus  the  one 
European  country  in  which  the  number  of  shipyard  workers  had 
increased  after  1975.  During  the  same  period,  the  Finns  built  two 
new  shipyards  for  oceangoing  vessels,  established  a  heavy  engineer- 
ing works  for  oil-drilling  rigs,  and  modernized  older  yards. 

By  the  late  1980s,  however,  it  appeared  that  shipbuilding  was 
entering  a  crisis.  The  decline  in  the  price  of  oil  in  the  middle  of 
the  decade  caused  a  reduction  in  Soviet  purchasing  power,  limit- 
ing new  orders  for  ships  (see  Regiongil  Economic  Integration,  this 
ch.).  Moreover,  Soviet  buyers,  who  had  long  preferred  Finnish 
ships,  had  started  to  place  orders  with  other  countries,  including 


187 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

East  European  firms  that  enjoyed  lower  labor  costs.  At  the  same 
time,  certain  Finnish  specialties,  such  as  icebreakers,  were  attracting 
competition  from  more  advanced  shipbuilding  countries  such  as 
Japan. 

The  crisis  in  shipbuilding  led  to  a  decline  in  employment  and 
to  further  restructuring.  In  July  1986,  two  of  Finlaind's  four  major 
shipbuilding  companies,  Wartsila  and  the  Valmet  Group,  merged 
their  shipbuilding  divisions  and  planned  to  eliminate  about  40  per- 
cent of  their  10,000  jobs.  Another  several  thousand  workers  were 
out  of  work,  and  the  increased  competition  from  the  new  firm  threat- 
ened the  two  remaining  firms,  Rauma-Repola  and  Hollming. 
Indeed,  competition  had  already  undermined  an  arrangement  un- 
der which  each  firm  specialized  in  a  particular  field:  Wartsila  in 
icebreakers  and  luxury  liners,  the  Valmet  Group  in  cargo  ships, 
Rauma-Repola  in  offshore  oil  equipment,  and  Hollming  in  high- 
technology  research  vessels.  As  the  crisis  continued,  industry 
analysts  began  to  question  whether  the  industry  could  survive 
without  government  bailouts. 

Electrical  Equipment  and  High  Technology 

Production  of  electrical  equipment  had  started  somewhat  slow- 
ly, but  during  the  1970s  and  the  1980s  the  branch  grew  rapidly. 
The  branch  produced  both  heavy  goods — such  as  power  plant 
generators,  heavy-duty  electric  motors,  and  equipment  for  ice- 
breakers— and  lighter  goods — such  as  household  appliances,  light- 
bulbs,  and  building  components.  By  the  mid-1980s,  however,  the 
heavy  electrical  engineering  producers  were  experiencing  stagnant 
markets  and  fierce  competition.  Electronics,  however,  grew  rapidly, 
expanding  its  product  range  from  consumer  electronics  to  include 
computers;  communications  equipment;  and  monitoring,  con- 
trol, and  measuring  equipment.  The  Finns  developed  particular 
competence  in  control  systems  for  the  mining,  metallurgical,  and 
forestry  industries;  computers  for  hospitals  and  laboratories;  patient- 
monitoring  machines;  meteorological  instsillations;  and  tele- 
phone equipment.  Finland,  which  included  many  areas  that  were 
too  sparsely  populated  to  allow  the  construction  of  a  comprehen- 
sive telephone  network,  also  was  one  of  the  world's  leaders  in  the 
production  of  mobile  telephones. 

Although  electronics  was  still  small  compared  with  other  indus- 
tries, many  Finns  believed  that  it  had  good  prospects  and  that  it 
might  eventually  make  up  for  the  impending  decline  of  shipbuild- 
ing and  other  traditional  industries.  Thus,  in  the  mid-1980s,  both 
industry  and  government  began  to  pay  increasing  attention  to  the 
development  of  high  technology,  especially  in  the  electronics 


188 


Finnish-built  oil-drilling  rig  Dyvi  Delta  in  the  North  Sea 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

industry.  The  Finns  seemed  intent  on  specializing  in  high- value- 
added  products  in  which  the  country  had  a  comparative  advan- 
tage, an  approach  similar  to  that  which  had  proved  so  successful 
in  other  sectors. 

The  leaders  of  the  electronics  industry,  aware  that  the  small  sizes 
of  their  firms  made  it  difficult  to  compete,  banded  together  to  share 
research  and  development  expenses.  The  government  facilitated 
cooperation  among  firms  through  the  Technology  Development 
Center  (Teknologian  Kehittamiskeskus — TEKES)  established  in 
1983.  Electronics  firms  were  also  willing  to  join  international 
research  and  development  consortia  that  offered  access  to  foreign 
technologies.  However,  despite  the  rapid  development  of  high- 
technology  electronics  in  Finland,  by  the  late  1980s  it  was  still  too 
early  to  predict  how  well  Finnish  producers  would  be  able  to  com- 
pete in  world  markets. 

Other  Industries 

Several  smaller  sectors  contributed  significantly  to  industrial  out- 
put. Food  processing — concentrating  on  dairy  products,  baked 
goods,  and  preserved  meats — grew  during  the  postwar  period, 
as  rapid  urbanization  heightened  reliance  on  processed  foods. 
Indeed,  as  late  as  1970  food  processing  was  the  largest  sector  in 
terms  of  gross  value  of  production  (but  in  terms  of  value  added,  food 


189 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

processing  ranked  only  third  that  year,  behind  wood  and  metal 
processing).  Nevertheless,  during  the  1970s  and  the  1980s,  food 
processing  suffered  a  relative  decline. 

In  the  1980s,  the  food  industry  undertook  an  ambitious  research 
program  aimed  at  foreign  markets.  Finnish  firms  hoped  to  develop 
special  foods  for  the  cafeterias  of  hospitals,  mines,  and  oil  rigs  as 
well  as  to  develop  delicacies,  such  as  fresh  berries  and  fresh-water 
fish.  New  technologies,  such  as  plant  and  animal  genetics,  freeze- 
drying,  irradiation,  aseptic  production,  and  methods  to  limit  food 
oxidation,  promised  to  improve  the  attractiveness  of  Finnish 
products.  Another  export  was  highly  automated  equipment  for  bak- 
eries, dairies,  and  slaughterhouses.  Although  Finland's  high  produc- 
tion costs  limited  exports  of  staple  foodstuffs,  observers  believed 
that  the  industry  could  expect  to  sell  special  products  in  Europe 
and  in  North  America. 

Finland's  chemical  industry,  established  at  the  time  of  indepen- 
dence, had  come  a  long  way  by  its  seventieth  anniversary  in  1987. 
By  the  late  1980s,  the  sector  ranked  fourth  after  wood,  metal,  and 
food  processing.  Oil  refining  accounted  for  about  half  the  gross 
value  of  chemical  production,  followed  by  fertilizers,  plastics,  fibers, 
rubber  products,  and  other  chemicals.  Two  large,  state-owned  firms 
controlled  more  than  half  of  chemical  production.  Neste,  estab- 
lished in  1948,  was  the  only  oil-refming  enterprise.  Its  chemical 
operations  had  grown  out  of  refining,  while  its  rival,  the  Kemira 
Group,  had  developed  interests  in  many  products,  including  fer- 
tilizers, paints,  fibers,  and  industrial  chemicals.  During  the  1980s, 
both  companies  had  purchased  production  facilities  abroad  in  an 
attempt  to  remain  on  top  in  an  international  market  that  suffered 
from  overcapacity  in  many  basic  product  lines. 

Construction,  which  accounted  for  almost  10  percent  of  GDP 
in  1950,  declined  to  less  than  8  percent  of  GDP  during  the  post- 
war period,  as  the  country  completed  its  transportation  and  energy 
infrastructure  and  established  heavy  industry.  In  the  short  term, 
construction  activities  depended  on  the  overall  health  of  the  econ- 
omy. Thus,  new  building  slumped  from  1984  to  late  1986  because 
of  a  recession  and  because  many  industries  invested  more  in  new 
machines  than  in  new  buildings.  Residential  construction  was  also 
slow  in  the  mid-1980s,  but  it  responded  to  financial  stimuli  after 
1985.  By  late  1986,  both  commercial  and  domestic  building  were 
on  the  rise,  increasing  by  an  estimated  3  percent  in  1987.  Finland 
also  exported  construction  services,  especially  to  the  Third  World 
and  to  the  Soviet  Union,  usually  to  complement  exports  of  machine 
goods.  The  industry  was  able  to  offer  clients  all  types  of  planning, 
engineering,  and  building  services  for  turnkey  factories. 


190 


The  Economy 


Textiles  and  ready-made  clothing,  two  of  the  country's  oldest 
industries,  concentrated  on  cotton,  wool,  and  knitted  goods.  Dur- 
ing the  postwar  period,  this  sector  had  declined  in  relation  to  other 
industries;  however,  in  the  1980s,  Finland  still  produced  high- 
quality  fabrics  and  fashions  for  export,  especially  to  Europe.  Like- 
wise, Finnish  fur  and  leather  designs  had  carved  out  export  mar- 
kets in  the  developed  countries. 

Services 

Although  the  Finns  continued  to  place  a  high  value  on  agricul- 
tural and  industrial  employment,  by  the  1980s  the  economy  had 
already  entered  an  era  characterized  by  the  development  of  ser- 
vices. While  in  1950  services  accounted  for  only  35  percent  of  total 
domestic  output,  the  sector  provided  over  55  percent  in  1985.  The 
postwar  development  of  a  welfare  state  stimulated  growth  in  the 
state  sector,  and  other  activities,  such  as  financial  and  engineer- 
ing services,  expanded  as  the  economy  industrialized  (see  Welfare 
System,  ch.  2).  Services  traditionally  remained  insulated  from 
international  markets,  but  during  the  1980s  the  government 
encouraged  the  development  of  service  exports  and  even  allowed 
foreign  enterprises  to  enter  such  previously  protected  markets  as 
those  in  financial  services.  In  line  with  this  liberalization,  the  govern- 
ment repealed  regulations  that  hampered  the  working  of  markets 
in  services,  causing  the  important  branches  of  the  sector  to  become 
efficient  enough  to  compete  in  world  markets. 

Banking  and  Finance 

Under  the  regulatory  structures  that  had  developed  since  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century,  banks  had  dominated  the  financial  scene,  leav- 
ing the  stock  market  and  insurance  companies  to  play  secondary 
roles.  Control  over  investment  capital  gave  a  few  large  banks  great 
power.  Distinct  laws  for  each  type  of  bank  contributed  to  the 
development  of  a  fragmented  banking  structure  in  which  separate 
types  of  institutions  served  different  purposes.  Closely  regulated 
by  the  central  bank,  the  operations  of  which  depended  less  on  mar- 
ket mechanisms  than  on  capital  rationing,  the  traditional  finan- 
cial system  served  Finland's  postwar  reconstruction  and 
industrialization  well.  This  same  system,  however,  appeared  out- 
dated in  the  dynamic  international  markets  of  the  1970s  and  the 
1980s.  As  a  consequence,  a  process  of  deregulation  and  interna- 
tionalization was  begun,  which  led  to  rapid  changes  in  the  finan- 
cial sector.  Observers  expected  further  changes  during  the  late  1980s 
and  the  early  1990s.  In  mid- 1988  the  process  of  liberalization  was 
still  incomplete,  however,  and  many  institutions  retained  their 


191 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

customary  roles,  making  Finland's  financial  system  a  peculiar  mix- 
ture of  new  and  old. 

Founded  in  1811,  the  Bank  of  Finland  (BOF)  first  provided  the 
services  of  a  true  central  bank  in  the  1890s.  Formally  independent, 
the  BOF's  management  comprised  bodies  responsible  to  both  the 
executive  and  the  legislative  branches  of  government.  The  gover- 
nor and  a  board  of  directors,  who  were  appointed  by  the  president 
of  Finland,  controlled  day-to-day  operations.  A  nine-member 
supervisory  council,  named  by  and  responsible  to  the  Eduskunta, 
reviewed  bank  policy  and  made  most  fundamental  decisions, 
especially  those  regarding  monetary  policy.  The  BOF  served  as 
the  lender  of  last  resort,  and  it  regulated  the  currency  and  the  finan- 
cial markets.  It  also  determined  monetary  policy  and  participated 
in  the  formulation  of  government  economic  strategies  (see  Role 
of  Government,  this  ch.). 

Although  BOF  policy  originally  had  concentrated  on  maintain- 
ing the  value  of  the  currency,  during  the  Great  Depression  of  the 
1930s  the  influence  of  Keynesian  theories  began  to  modify  bank 
policies.  After  World  War  II,  the  BOF  developed  regulations 
designed  to  favor  reconstruction  and  the  development  of  manufac- 
turing, and  these  remained  in  force  almost  unchanged  throughout 
the  1960s.  The  regulations  were  part  of  a  comprehensive  govern- 
ment scheme  for  financial  markets  that  included  foreign-exchange 
restrictions,  regulation  of  bank  lending  rates,  a  quota  system  for 
bank  borrowing  from  the  BOF,  and  an  interbank  agreement  on 
deposit  rates.  At  the  heart  of  the  system  were  tax  rules  that  made 
interest  earnings  on  bank  deposits  tax-free  and  interest  charges  paid 
by  companies  on  loans  fully  deductible.  These  two  measures  com- 
bined to  favor  bank  deposits  and  to  facilitate  debt  financing  for 
industry.  The  BOF  used  this  panoply  of  regulations  to  hold  bor- 
rowing rates  artificially  low — generally  at  negative  real  rates — to 
favor  investment.  As  money  markets  were  not  in  operation,  the 
BOF  resorted  to  distributing  specific  quotas  of  credits  to  commer- 
cial banks.  Strict  limits  on  the  foreign-exchange  market  protected 
the  system  from  international  competition. 

Besides  the  central  bank,  the  banking  system  included  a  small 
number  of  commercial  banks  based  in  Helsinki,  many  local 
branches  of  cooperative  and  savings  banks,  and  a  small  number 
of  state-owned  banks.  The  commercial  banks  differed  from  the 
others  because  they  could  borrow  directly  from  the  BOF,  and  they 
controlled  most  corporate  banking.  The  networks  of  savings  and 
cooperative  banks  primarily  served  households,  which  provided  a 
solid  deposit  base.  The  split  between  the  two  banking  networks  was 
not  absolute,  however,  as  the  savings  banks  and  the  cooperative 


192 


The  Economy 


banks  had  formed  their  own  so-called  central  banks,  which  enjoyed 
commercial  bank  status. 

Finland's  commercial  banks  were  the  real  leaders  of  the  finan- 
cial industry,  and  they  controlled  most  lending  to  Finnish  corpo- 
rations. Although  about  ten  banks  were  considered  to  be  commercial 
banks,  only  two — the  Suomen  Yhdyspankki  (Union  Bank  of 
Finland — UBF)  and  the  Kansallis-Osake-Pankki  (KOP) — were 
national  banks  with  extensive  branch  networks.  The  four  foreign- 
owned  banks  active  in  Finland  also  operated  as  commercial  banks. 

The  cooperative  and  savings  banks  served  a  wide  range  of 
regional  and  local  customers,  but  usually  exercised  relatively  little 
economic  power.  They  tended  to  specialize  in  providing  home  and 
farm  banking  services  in  rural  areas.  The  savings  banks  were  non- 
profit banks  designed  to  promote  saving,  and  they  served  small- 
scale  trade  and  industry  as  well  as  households. 

Although  private  banks  formed  the  backbone  of  Finland's  finan- 
cial structure,  state-owned  banks  still  accounted  for  about  one- 
quarter  of  bank  assets  in  the  mid-1980s.  The  most  important  of 
these,  the  Postipankki,  had  about  40  branches  of  its  own  and  made 
its  services  available  at  windows  in  more  than  3,000  post  offices 
throughout  the  country.  Other  state  banks  included  the  Industri- 
alization Fund  of  Finland,  Finnish  Export  Credit  (partially  owned 
by  commercial  banks  and  private  industry),  and  the  State  Invest- 
ment Fund  and  Regional  Development  Bank,  both  of  which 
invested  in  underdeveloped  regions  and  in  industries  with  capital 
requirements  that  were  too  large  for  private  firms.  Finland's  com- 
mercial banks  traditionally  were  allowed  to  hold  as  much  as  20  per- 
cent of  the  total  assets  of  Finnish  corporations,  and  the  leading  banks 
had  substantial  holdings  in  the  largest  corporations.  A  1987  law 
reduced  the  cap  on  bank  ownership  of  corporate  assets,  but  the 
banks'  real  power  derived  from  their  control  over  capital  supplies. 
During  the  long  postwar  period  of  negative  real  interest  rates,  banks 
controlled  the  supply  of  capital — much  of  which  was  imported  from 
abroad  by  the  BOF.  The  two  largest  banks,  KOP  and  UBF,  built 
up  rival  spheres  of  influence  that  extended  to  many  of  Finland's 
largest  industrial  firms. 

The  crises  and  the  restructuring  of  the  late  1970s  and  the  early 
1980s  provided  the  leading  banks  with  further  opportunities  to 
strengthen  their  hold  on  Finnish  industry.  Starting  in  the  late  1970s, 
KOP  and  UBF  arranged  many  mergers  among  the  wood-processing 
companies;  by  the  mid-1980s,  they  had  turned  their  attention  to 
rationalization  in  the  metal-processing  industry.  Several  banks  also 
engaged  in  takeover  battles  through  the  Helsinki  Stock  Exchange. 


193 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  1970s,  several  developments  combined  to  reshape  the  oper- 
ations of  the  postwar  financial  system.  First,  many  corporations 
began  to  search  for  investment  opportunities  that  offered  both 
liquidity  and  higher  rates  of  return  than  those  offered  for  bank 
deposits.  Second,  as  Finland  shifted  from  importing  capital  to 
investing  abroad,  the  old  restrictions  on  foreign-exchange  trans- 
actions became  burdensome.  Finally,  a  number  of  major  Finnish 
corporations,  having  large  shares  of  the  domestic  market,  sought 
to  expand  abroad.  Some,  intent  on  foreign  acquisitions,  wanted 
to  sell  stocks  on  world  exchanges  in  order  to  build  assets  sufficient 
for  world- scale  operations. 

By  the  late  1970s,  in  response  to  the  increasing  internationali- 
zation of  corporate  life,  the  BOF  management  became  convinced 
of  the  need  to  liberalize  the  regulatory  system.  The  bank  relaxed 
controls  on  borrowing  abroad,  and  it  allowed  the  establishment 
of  an  interbank  money  market;  at  the  same  time,  the  banks  began 
to  compete  on  interest  rates  for  large  deposits.  These  two  develop- 
ments caused  Finnish  interest  rates  in  the  corporate  market  to  float 
up  toward  world  levels,  while  the  rates  for  most  small  depositors 
remained  controlled.  In  1982  the  BOF  allowed  foreign-owned  banks 
to  open  branches  in  Finland.  In  1984  the  BOF  permitted  Finnish 
banks  to  establish  branches  abroad,  abolished  bank-specific  credit 
allocation,  and  began  to  levy  identical  reserve  requirements  on  all 
banks.  In  1987  legislation  on  bank  deposits  eliminated  their  tradi- 
tional tax-free  status.  And  in  early  1988,  the  government  proposed 
new  banking  laws  that  would  put  all  major  banks  on  the  same  legal 
footing. 

The  BOF  had  thus  been  willing  to  deregulate  corporate  bank- 
ing partially,  but  important  aspects  of  the  regulatory  system 
remained  unchanged.  The  BOF  continued  to  watch  closely  both 
foreign  long-term  borrowing  and  investments  abroad  by  Finnish 
corporations.  Retail  banking  continued  much  as  before:  small 
deposits  placed  at  the  regulated  rates  were  tax-free,  and  the  banks 
maintained  their  interest-rate  cartel.  The  Finns  had  become 
accustomed  to  low  and  stable  interest  rates;  proposals  regarding 
interest  were  politically  sensitive  and  might  influence  incomes  agree- 
ments. Most  observers  thus  expected  that  the  BOF,  ever  cautious, 
would  not  rush  toward  further  deregulation. 

One  effect  of  the  liberalization  of  financial  regulations  and  the 
internationalization  of  Finnish  commercial  life  was  the  revival  of 
the  Helsinki  Stock  Exchange.  Turning  away  from  debt  financing, 
more  and  more  corporations  issued  stocks  and  bonds  in  the  1980s. 
Starting  in  1982,  the  stock  exchange  attracted  foreign  investors, 
who  accounted  for  about  one-third  of  turnover  in  1985.  Younger, 


194 


The  Economy 


more  prosperous  Finns  showed  increased  interest  in  stocks.  As  a 
result,  although  the  market  suffered  a  major  slump  in  the  second 
half  of  1984,  by  late  1986  the  stock  index  had  increased  tenfold 
compared  with  its  1980  level. 

Incorporated  in  1984,  and  almost  immediately  shaken  by  alle- 
gations of  insider  trading,  the  stock  exchange  in  1985  issued  new 
regulations  that  were  intended  to  increase  the  openness  of  its  oper- 
ations, thereby  increasing  its  attractiveness  for  small  investors.  In 
1987  the  government  reduced  restrictions  on  foreign  investors  and 
passed  a  law  allowing  banks  and  insurance  companies  to  set  up 
mutual  funds.  In  the  fall  of  1987,  options  exchanges  opened,  offering 
new  instruments  to  stock  traders.  Also  likely  to  enliven  the  market 
was  legislation  of  the  same  year  that  eliminated  the  tax-free  status 
of  bank  deposits.  As  Finnish  equities  continued  to  offer  better  rates 
of  return  than  those  on  many  markets,  stock  brokers  had  good  rea- 
son to  be  optimistic. 

Insurance  companies,  once  marginal  actors  in  capital  markets, 
became  Finland's  largest  institutional  investors,  after  the  establish- 
ment of  compulsory  insurance  schemes  in  the  early  1960s.  After 
that  time,  insurance  grew  faster  than  the  economy  as  a  whole,  and 
it  contributed  some  5  percent  of  GNP  in  the  mid-1980s.  As  the 
result  of  restructuring  in  the  early  1980s,  there  were  about  fifty 
insurance  companies,  associated  in  five  large  groups.  The  insur- 
ance companies  placed  about  two-fifths  of  their  investments  in 
industry  and  an  additional  fifth  in  commerce.  Other  investments 
included  other  insurance  firms  and  real  estate. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Finland's  geography  and  climate  make  transportation  and  com- 
munications difficult.  For  centuries,  coastal  ports,  which  were  closed 
by  ice  each  winter  for  at  least  one  month  in  the  south  and  for  as 
long  as  five  months  in  the  north,  provided  the  only  links  with 
Europe.  Internal  communications,  hampered  by  long  distances 
interrupted  by  swamps  and  bogs,  were  likewise  paralyzed  each 
spring  by  slowly  melting  snows.  As  in  most  industrialized  coun- 
tries, during  the  postwar  period  newer  technologies  supplanted 
traditional  means  of  transport.  Thus,  in  the  early  postwar  years, 
truck  traffic  grew  at  the  expense  of  rail  and  water  transport,  only 
to  be  displaced  later  by  airplanes.  Traditional  mail  gave  way  to 
telecommunications.  External  commerce  still  depended  primarily 
on  oceangoing  ships,  but  air  freight  services  provided  an  increas- 
ingly important  supplement. 

The  natural  environment  compensated  somewhat  for  the  difficul- 
ties of  climate  and  geography  in  the  form  of  a  network  of  lakes 


195 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  18.  Transportation  System,  1986 


196 


The  Economy 


and  rivers  that  provided  an  economical  means  of  moving  forest 
products  downstream  to  processing  centers  and  on  to  ports  for 
export.  Although  trucks  handled  more  than  half  of  Finland's  forest 
products  in  the  late  1980s,  the  wood  industries  still  operated  some 
9,200  kilometers  of  floatways.  Internal  waterways  for  general  use 
covered  another  6,100  kilometers,  of  which  about  70  kilometers 
were  canals.  The  most  important  artificial  waterway,  the  Saimaa 
Canal,  runs  from  Lake  Saimaa  to  the  Baltic  port  of  Viipuri  (see 
fig.  18),  In  1962  the  Soviet  Union,  which  had  annexed  the  water- 
way and  the  port  after  World  War  II,  granted  a  long-term  lease 
to  Finland  that  allowed  the  Finns  to  renovate  and  to  operate  them. 

Finland  lagged  behind  the  other  Nordic  countries  in  developing 
railroads — as  late  as  the  early  1970s,  Finland  continued  to  lay  tracks. 
Yet  by  the  early  1980s,  the  railroads  had  begun  to  decline  in 
importance,  and  of  the  more  than  9,000  kilometers  of  track,  less 
than  6,000  kilometers  of  track  were  in  operation  (25  percent  of  which 
was  electrified).  The  rail  network  served  southern  and  central  Fin- 
land better  than  the  north,  and  it  speciadized  in  carrying  bulk 
products  to  processing  centers  and  to  export  ports.  The  railroads, 
almost  all  of  which  were  state-owned,  had  lost  business  and  were 
running  operating  deficits  by  the  mid-1980s.  Finnish  railroads  used 
the  same  gauge  as  Russian  lines  (1 .524  meters),  which  allowed  easy 
exchanges  with  Soviet  railroads  but  blocked  shipments  to  Finland's 
Western  neighbors. 

By  1987  Finland  maintained  about  76,000  kilometers  of  road- 
ways, of  which  43,000  kilometers  were  paved  roads  and  200  kilo- 
meters were  divided  highways.  During  the  first  half  of  the  1980s, 
local  routes  accounted  for  most  new  road  construction,  as  the 
national  highways  were  largely  complete.  Although  the  highways 
covered  most  of  the  country,  specialists  reported  that  Finland  would 
need  to  improve  its  major  routes  to  meet  European  standards  and 
to  allow  increased  trade  with  Western  Europe  during  the  1990s. 

By  1987  the  Finns  operated  about  1.7  million  automobiles,  9,000 
buses,  52,000  freight  trucks,  135,000  vans  and  delivery  trucks,  and 
50,000  motorcycles.  During  the  early  1980s,  the  number  of  vehi- 
cles had  risen  by  almost  20  percent  as  more  and  more  Finns  pur- 
chased cars  and  motorcycles  and  many  companies  shifted  from  rail 
to  road  transport. 

Finland's  position  on  the  northern  shore  of  the  Baltic,  far  from 
the  commercial  centers  of  Western  Europe,  placed  a  premium  on 
shipping.  Because  harbors  freeze  up  each  winter,  the  Finns  have 
employed  a  fleet  of  icebreakers  and  have  equipped  many  ships  with 
strengthened  hulls,  the  construction  of  which  has  become  a  specialty 
of  the  metal-working  industry  (see  Industry,  this  ch.).  The  national 


197 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

oceangoing  fleet  expanded  tenfold  to  about  2.5  million  gross 
registered  tons  (GRT)  between  the  end  of  World  War  II  and  about 
1980,  but  it  shrank  thereafter  to  about  1 .6  million  GRT.  The  Fin- 
nish merchant  marine  carried  most  of  the  country's  trade  and 
provided  a  significant  source  of  foreign  exchange;  however,  mer- 
chant shipping  declined  somewhat  in  the  1980s  because  of  compe- 
tition from  air  freight  services  and  from  foreign  shipping.  In  the 
1980s,  Finland's  ports  handled  about  50  million  net  registered  tons 
each  year,  of  which  60  percent  were  exports.  Ships  also  carried 
a  significant  number  of  passengers,  2  million  of  whom  traveled  by 
way  of  Helsinki. 

Air  transport  grew  rapidly  in  the  1970s  and  the  1980s.  For  pas- 
sengers, domestic  traffic  was  growing  faster  than  international 
travel,  but  for  freight,  the  reverse  was  true.  Affordable  air  fares — the 
lowest  in  Europe — contributed  to  the  rapid  expansion  of  domestic 
air  travel.  Almost  3  million  passengers  and  more  than  50,000  tons 
of  freight  and  mail  passed  through  the  main  airport,  Helsinki- 
Vantaa,  each  year.  Finland  also  operated  about  forty  smaller 
airports. 

Two  state-controlled  firms,  Finnair  and  Karair,  dominated  Fin- 
nish airways.  The  state  owned  a  majority  of  shares  in  Finnair 
(founded  in  1923),  which  maintained  regular  international  and 
domestic  service.  Karair,  established  in  1957,  was  linked  to  Fin- 
nair (which  owned  a  majority  interest)  and  specialized  in  charter 
flights. 

Finland's  postal  and  telecommunications  services  maintained 
efficient  links  among  the  country's  thinly  settled  population.  In  the 
late  1980s,  the  government  operated  about  3,600  post  offices  and 
581  telegraph  bureaus.  Nevertheless,  many  rural  areas  were  so 
sparsely  inhabited  that  the  postal  carriers  made  deliveries  to  groups 
of  mailboxes  located  at  crossroads.  The  relatively  great  distances 
among  settlements  made  telecommunications  popular;  by  the  late 
1980s,  telecommunications  had  become  more  important  than  tradi- 
tional postal  services.  Among  European  states,  Finland  was  unusual 
in  maintaining  a  combination  of  public  and  private  telephone  sys- 
tems. Some  fifty-eight  companies  provided  services  in  local  com- 
munities, while  the  Public  Telecommunications  Agency  (PTA) 
enjoyed  a  monopoly  on  long-distance  services.  Starting  in  the 
mid-1980s,  local  companies  began  to  compete  in  the  lucrative  data 
transmission  field,  a  move  that  put  them  in  competition  with  the 
PTA's  long-distance  services.  Observers  expected  that  pending 
legislation  would  effectively  deregulate  the  telecommunications 
market. 


198 


The  Economy 


Tourism 

Tourism  was  a  small  industry  in  Finland,  accounting  for  only 
4  percent  of  total  exports  in  1987.  Since  1982,  however,  Finns  had 
spent  more  abroad  than  foreigners  had  spent  in  Finland,  and  eco- 
nomic policy  makers  sought  to  foster  tourism  to  reduce  this  deficit. 
Tourists  found  many  attractions,  both  natural  and  cultural,  in  Fin- 
land; moreover,  facilities  for  vacationers  were  well  developed.  Public 
transport — including  tourist  buses  and  ships  plying  scenic  interior 
waterways — offered  easy  access  to  the  country's  main  tourist  areas. 
In  the  mid-1980s,  Finland  had  about  550  hotels  and  230  boarding 
houses.  During  the  1980s,  the  number  of  rooms  in  hotels  rose,  as 
did  the  number  of  places  in  youth  hostels.  Campers  found  plenti- 
ful sites,  including  some  with  firewood  and  even  shelters,  along 
an  extensive  network  of  trails.  Information  offices  in  major  cities 
in  Finland  and  abroad  offered  information  and  orientation  for 
visitors. 

Despite  manifold  attractions  and  excellent  facilities,  the  tourist 
industry  lagged  during  the  1980s.  Tourist  earnings  declined  by 
about  one-third  during  the  early  1980s,  perhaps  as  a  result  of  Fin- 
land's relatively  high  cost  of  living,  which  made  the  country  some- 
what expensive  for  tourists. 

Foreign  Economic  Relations 

International  economic  relations — especially  foreign  trade — have 
been  vital  for  Finland  throughout  the  twentieth  century,  but  never 
have  they  been  more  so  than  during  the  1980s.  The  country  was 
self-sufficient  in  staple  foods,  and  domestic  supplies  covered  about 
70  percent  of  the  value  of  the  raw  materials  used  by  industry. 
However,  imports  of  petroleum,  minerals,  and  other  products  were 
crucial  for  both  the  agricultural  and  the  industrial  sectors.  From 
the  end  of  World  War  II  until  the  late  1970s,  the  development  of 
modern  infrastructure  and  new  industries  required  substantial  cap- 
ital imports.  Sound  foreign  economic  relations  made  it  possible  to 
exchange  exports  for  needed  imports  and  to  service  the  large  for- 
eign debt.  A  policy  of  removing  obstacles  to  the  mobility  of  com- 
modities, services,  and  factors  of  production  facilitated  economic 
modernization. 

Business  leaders  and  government  policy  makers  devised  inno- 
vative strategies  to  manage  economic  relations.  Close  economic 
ties  to  the  Soviet  Union  grew  out  of  the  postwar  settlement  under 
which  Finland  agreed  to  pay  reparations  and  to  maintain  a  form 
of  neutrality  that  would  preclude  threats  to  Soviet  security  (see  The 
Effects  of  the  War,  ch.  1;  Foreign  Relations,  ch.  4).  Except  for 


199 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

agriculture,  which  remained  strictly  protected,  postwar  commer- 
cidl  policy  sought  to  link  Finland's  economy  with  the  economies 
of  the  Nordic  area  and  of  Western  Europe  as  closely  as  possible 
without  aggravating  Soviet  fears  that  such  economic  ties  would 
undermine  loyalty  to  the  East.  Thus,  since  1957  Finland  had  pur- 
sued trade  liberalization  and  had  established  industrial  free-trade 
agreements  with  both  West  European  and  East  European  coun- 
tries. Spurred  by  these  liberal  policies,  exports  and  imports  had 
each  grown  to  account  for  roughly  one-quarter  of  GDP  by  the 
mid-1980s.  By  the  late  1980s,  Finnish  industrial  and  service  firms 
were  going  beyond  trade  to  internationalize  production  by  attracting 
foreign  partners  for  their  domestic  operations  and  by  acquiring  for- 
eign firms.  Most  observers  believed  that  Finnish  firms  needed  to 
follow  an  international  tack  not  only  to  protect  export  shares  but 
also  to  maintain  their  positions  in  domestic  markets. 

Foreign  Trade 

Trade  in  agricultural  commodities,  consumer  products,  and  ser- 
vices had  been  relatively  limited,  but  exchanges  with  the  outside 
world  were  crucial  for  industry.  Not  only  had  the  forest  industries 
grown  largely  in  response  to  foreign  demand  for  wood  and  paper, 
but  the  metal-working  industry  had  2ilso  taken  off  only  under  the 
goad  of  postwar  reparations  deliveries  to  the  Soviet  Union.  By  the 
mid-1980s,  exports  accounted  for  half  of  adl  industrial  output  and 
for  as  much  as  80  percent  of  the  output  of  the  crucial  forest  indus- 
tries. Similarly,  imports  of  energy,  raw  materials,  and  investment 
goods  remained  essential  for  industrial  production.  The  develop- 
ment of  export-oriented  industries  had  driven  Finland's  postwar 
structural  transformation,  indirectly  affecting  the  rest  of  the  econ- 
omy. Industrial  competitiveness  would  largely  determine  the  econ- 
omy's overall  health  into  the  1990s. 

During  the  postwar  period,  Finnish  exports  shifted  from  lum- 
ber and  other  raw  materials  to  increasingly  sophisticated  products, 
a  change  which  reflected  the  increasing  diversification  of  the  coun- 
try's economic  structure.  The  forest  industries  continued  to 
dominate  exports,  but,  while  they  had  accounted  for  about  85  per- 
cent of  total  exports  in  1950,  they  accounted  for  only  40  percent 
by  the  mid-1980s.  The  relative  shares  of  different  forest  exports 
also  shifted.  Sawn  timber  and  various  board  products  accounted 
for  more  than  one-third  of  total  exports  in  1950,  but  by  1985  they 
had  fallen  to  only  8  percent.  Exports  of  pulp  and  paper  fell  more 
gradually  during  the  same  period,  from  43  percent  of  exports  to 
about  30  percent.  Pulp  and  cardboard,  the  main  exports  of  the 
chemical  wood-processing  branch,  declined  in  importance,  while 


200 


The  Economy 


specialized  paper  products  incorporating  higher  value  added,  such 
as  packing  material,  printed  paper,  and  coated  paper,  grew  in 
importance. 

Taking  the  place  of  forest  products,  exports  of  metal  products 
grew  rapidly  during  the  postwar  period  from  a  little  over  4  per- 
cent of  exports  to  about  28  percent.  Here,  too,  exports  of  more 
sophisticated  manufactured  goods  grew  faster  than  those  of  basic 
products.  By  the  late  1980s,  basic  metals  accounted  for  about  20 
percent  of  metal  exports,  ships  for  about  25  percent,  and  machinery 
and  equipment  for  about  20  percent.  Advanced  products  such  as 
electronics  and  process-control  equipment  were  gaining  on  con- 
ventionally engineered  products.  The  chemical  industry  had 
exported  relatively  little  until  the  1970s,  but  by  1985  it  had  grown 
to  account  for  about  12  percent  of  exports.  By  contrast,  the  tex- 
tile, confectionery,  and  leather  goods  industries  had  peaked  at  over 
10  percent  in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  and  then  they  had 
fallen  to  about  6  percent  of  exports  by  the  mid-1980s.  Minor  export 
sectors  included  processed  foods,  building  materials,  agricultural 
products,  and  furs. 

Up  to  the  1970s,  Finland  tended  to  export  wood-based  products 
to  the  West,  and  metal  and  engineering  products  to  the  East.  By 
the  mid-1980s,  however,  Finnish  machines  and  high-technology 
products  were  also  becoming  competitive  in  Western  markets. 

Finland's  imports  had  consisted  primarily  of  raw  materials,  ener- 
gy, and  capital  goods  for  industrial  production,  and  in  the  late  1980s 
these  categories  still  accounted  for  roughly  two- thirds  of  all  imports. 
The  commodity  structure  of  imports  responded  both  to  structural 
changes  in  domestic  production  and  to  shifts  in  world  markets. 
Thus,  the  heavy  purchases  of  raw  materials,  energy,  and  capital 
goods  up  until  the  mid-1970s  reflected  Finland's  postwar  industri- 
al development,  while  the  subsequent  period  showed  the  influences 
of  unstable  world  energy  prices  and  Finland's  shifts  toward  high- 
technology  production.  Imports  of  investment  goods  climbed  from 
about  15  percent  in  1950  to  almost  30  percent  in  the  late  1960s 
and  early  1970s,  only  to  fall  again  by  the  1980s  to  about  15  per- 
cent. Foodstuffs  and  raw  materials  for  the  textile  industry  accounted 
for  about  half  of  all  raw  material  imports  during  the  1950s,  but 
by  the  1980s  inputs  for  the  chemical  and  metal-processing  indus- 
tries took  some  75  percent  of  raw  material  imports.  World  energy 
prices  had  strongly  influenced  Finnish  trade  because  the  country 
needed  to  import  about  70  percent  of  its  energy.  After  rising  slowly 
until  the  early  1970s,  the  value  of  oil  imports  had  jumped  to  almost 
one-third  of  that  of  total  imports  in  the  mid-1970s,  then  had  fallen 
with  world  oil  prices  to  about  13  percent  by  the  late  1980s. 


201 


202 


Helsinki's  South  Harbor  closed  by  ice:  on  the  right,  the  President's 
Palace;  in  the  background,  the  dome  of  Helsinki  Cathedral 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 


203 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Like  its  export  markets,  Finland's  import  sources  were  concen- 
trated in  Western  Europe  and  the  Soviet  Union  (see  table  19, 
Appendix  A).  The  country  usually  obtained  raw  materials,  espe- 
cially petroleum,  from  the  East  and  purchased  capital  goods  from 
the  West. 

Finnish  service  exports  had  exceeded  service  imports  until  the 
early  1980s.  Up  until  this  time,  shipping  and  tourism  earnings  had 
generally  exceeded  interest  payments  to  service  the  national  debt. 
In  the  mid-1980s,  however,  the  balance  was  reversed  as  the  earn- 
ings of  the  merchant  marine  declined  and  Finns  began  to  spend 
more  on  tourism  abroad.  Although  Finnish  businesses  tried  to  com- 
pete in  these  labor-intensive  sectors,  the  country's  high  wage  lev- 
els made  shipping  and  tourism  difficult  to  export. 

Like  other  Nordic  countries,  Finland's  trade  was  concentrated 
in  the  Nordic  area  and  in  Europe.  Unlike  the  others,  however,  Fin- 
land had,  as  its  most  important  trading  partner,  the  Soviet  Union. 
During  the  postwar  years,  trade  with  the  Soviets  had  expanded 
and  contracted  in  response  to  political  developments  and  market 
forces.  During  the  immediate  postwar  period,  the  Soviet  share  of 
Finland's  trade,  spurred  by  reparations  payments,  rose  to  over  30 
percent.  However,  the  following  two  decades  saw  this  share  gradu- 
ally decline  as  Finland  expanded  exports  to  Western  Europe.  A 
second  cycle  began  after  the  1973  oil  crisis,  when  recession  in 
Western  markets  cut  demand  for  Finnish  products  while  the 
increased  value  of  Soviet  oil  deliveries  to  Finland  allowed  expanded 
exports  to  the  East.  Finnish  exports  to  the  Soviet  Union  rose  sharp- 
ly during  the  years  after  1973,  only  to  fall — along  with  world  petrole- 
um prices — by  1986. 

By  the  late  1980s,  the  geographical  distribution  of  Finlcind's  trade 
was  moving  back  to  the  pre- 1973  pattern.  In  1986,  for  example, 
although  the  Soviet  Union  continued  to  be  Finland's  single  larg- 
est trade  partner,  trade  with  West  European  countries,  which 
together  accounted  for  about  61  percent  of  Finnish  trade,  was  much 
more  important  than  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Finland's  main 
trade  partners  in  Western  Europe  were  Sweden,  which  took  the 
biggest  share  of  Finnish  exports,  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany),  which  supplied  the  largest  slice  of  Finnish 
imports.  East  European  countries  other  than  the  Soviet  Union 
accounted  for  only  slightly  over  2  percent  of  trade.  Non-European 
countries  were  responsible  for  some  19  percent  of  trade.  The  United 
States,  Finland's  main  non-European  trade  partner,  accounted  for 
over  5  percent  of  Finnish  exports  and  imports  in  1987. 

As  in  many  small  European  countries,  the  postwar  trade  policy 
of  Finland  had  been  to  pursue  free  trade  in  industrial  products 


204 


The  Economy 


while  protecting  agriculture  and  services.  During  the  1980s,  strict 
quotas  still  blocked  imports  of  most  agricultural  commodities  (except 
for  tropical  products  that  could  not  be  produced  domestically),  but 
liberalized  regulations  allowed  increased  imports  of  services, 
especially  financial  services.  Most  industrial  imports  and  exports 
were  free  of  surcharges,  tariffs,  and  quotas  under  multilateral  and 
bilateral  agreements  between  Finland  and  its  major  trading  part- 
ners (see  Regional  Economic  Integration,  this  ch.).  Health  and  secu- 
rity concerns,  however,  inspired  restrictions  on  imports  of  products 
such  as  radioactive  materials,  pharmaceuticals,  arms  and  ammu- 
nition, live  animals,  meat,  seeds,  and  plants.  With  a  few  excep- 
tions, Finland  discontinued  export  licensing  in  the  early  1960s.  The 
State  Granary,  however,  controlled  all  trade  in  grains,  while  the 
Roundwood  Export  Commission  reviewed  all  lumber  exports. 

Finnish  Direct  Investment  Abroad 

From  the  end  of  World  War  II  until  the  1970s,  Finland  imported 
large  amounts  of  capital  to  finance  infrastructure  investment  and 
industricd  development;  however,  by  1987  Finnish  capital  exports 
exceeded  capital  imports  by  about  six  to  one.  During  the  earlier 
period,  foreign  firms  had  set  up  subsidiaries  in  Finland,  but  few 
Finnish  enterprises  had  established  branches  abroad.  In  the  1970s, 
the  forest  industry  led  a  shift  toward  capital  exports  by  founding 
sales  outlets  in  the  most  important  foreign  markets,  especially  in 
Western  Europe.  The  metalworking  and  chemical  industries  did 
not  begin  to  expand  overseas  until  the  late  1970s,  but  they  made 
up  for  lost  time  during  the  following  decade.  These  industries  first 
invested  in  Sweden,  Norway,  and  Denmark,  important  markets 
sharing  Nordic  culture.  Next  came  subsidiziries  in  the  United  States, 
which  by  the  mid-1980s  became  the  second-largest  recipient  of  Fin- 
nish investments  after  Sweden  and  which  hosted  more  than  300 
Finnish  manufacturing  and  sales  firms.  In  the  late  1980s,  some  firms 
targeted  markets  in  the  rapidly  expanding  economies  of  the  Pacif- 
ic basin.  Beginning  in  the  late  1980s,  the  service  sector  began  to 
follow  industry  abroad.  Banks,  insurance  companies,  and  engineer- 
ing and  architectural  firms  established  branches  in  major  business 
centers  worldwide.  By  the  late  1980s,  Finnish  firms  owned  more 
than  1,600  foreign  concerns,  of  which  some  250  were  engaged  in 
manufacturing;  more  than  900  in  sales  and  marketing;  and  450 
in  other  functions. 

Businessmen  had  many  motives  for  setting  up  overseas 
operations.  In  general,  the  Finns  wanted  to  deepen  ties  with  indus- 
trialized countries  where  consumers  and  businesses  could  af- 
ford high-quality  Finnish  goods.  Maintaining  access  to  important 


205 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

markets  in  an  era  of  increasing  protectionism  and  keeping  up  with 
new  technologies  had  become  crucial.  Finnish  enterprises,  gener- 
ally small  by  international  standards,  needed  additional  sources 
of  capital  and  know-how  to  develop  new  technologies.  Analysts  be- 
lieved that,  despite  their  small  size,  Finnish  firms  could  succeed 
abroad  if  they  followed  a  comprehensive  strategy,  not  only  selling 
finished  products  but  also  offering  their  services  in  the  manage- 
ment of  raw  materials  and  energy,  development  of  new  technolo- 
gies, and  design  of  attractive  products. 

Government  policies  helped  achieve  greater  international  integra- 
tion of  productive  facilities.  During  the  1980s,  legislation  relaxed 
limits  on  foreign  investment  in  Finnish  firms,  allowing  foreigners 
to  hold  up  to  40  percent  of  corporate  equities;  likewise,  the  BOF 
loosened  restrictions  on  capital  exports.  The  Technology  Develop- 
ment Center  (TEKES),  under  the  Ministry  of  Trade  and  Indus- 
try, sponsored  international  cooperation  in  research  and 
development.  The  government  also  arranged  for  Finnish  partici- 
pation in  joint  projects  sponsored  by  the  European  Space  Agency 
(ESA)  and  the  Europe2in  Community  (EC — see  Glossary),  includ- 
ing the  EC's  Eureka  technology  development  program.  Although 
it  was  still  too  early  to  predict  how  Finland  would  perform  in 
international  joint  ventures,  many  observers  felt  that  such  enter- 
prises were  the  best  way  for  the  country  to  achieve  industrial 
progress. 

Balance  of  Payments 

Finland's  external  balance  reflected  the  country's  status  as  a  late- 
industrializing  economy  needing  large  infusions  of  foreign  capital 
as  recently  as  the  1970s.  The  resulting  foreign  debt  peaked  at  the 
end  of  1977  at  about  20  percent  of  GDP.  Over  the  following  decade, 
the  Finns  reduced  their  debt,  which  stood  at  about  16  percent  of 
GDP  in  1987.  Even  at  this  lower  level,  however,  debt  service  re- 
quired payments  amounting  to  over  2  percent  of  GDP,  a  perma- 
nent drag  on  the  balance  of  payments. 

Although  the  country  ran  trade  deficits  up  until  the  1970s,  Fin- 
land's trade  performance  was  generally  satisfactory  during  the 
1980s,  despite  developments  in  world  markets  that  posed  special 
challenges,  such  as  the  need  to  shift  exports  rapidly  from  Eastern 
to  Western  markets  after  the  collapse  of  oil  prices  in  the  mid-1980s. 
The  balance  of  trade  showed  a  surplus  after  1980,  which  rose  to 
about  US$1 .6  billion  by  1986  as  a  result  of  strong  foreign  demand 
for  Finnish  goods  (see  table  20,  Appendix  A).  The  services  account, 
however,  showed  growing  deficits  during  the  decade,  which  reached 
more  than  US$2.2  billion  in  1986.  The  deficit  on  services  grew 


206 


The  Economy 


out  of  increased  Finnish  tourist  expenditures  abroad,  the  dedine 
in  shipping  earnings,  and  the  continued  service  payments  on  the 
national  debt.  The  transfers  account  likewise  showed  a  deficit,  main- 
ly the  result  of  Finland's  growing  official  foreign  aid  to  the  Third 
World.  Thus,  despite  the  strong  performance  of  Finland's  export 
sector,  the  country  had  generated  a  deficit  on  the  current  account 
that  reached  almost  US$900  million  in  1986. 

Over  the  long  term,  Finland's  ability  to  continue  to  finance  cur- 
rent account  deficits  and  to  service  the  national  debt  was  limited 
primarily  by  the  country's  ability  to  maintain  export  earnings.  Some 
analysts  pointed  out  that  after  1984,  Finland's  surpluses  were  in 
fact  earned  in  exchanges  with  the  Soviet  Union  (producing  a  sur- 
plus on  a  blocked  account),  while  hard-currency  trade  was  in  deficit. 
Many  observers  noted,  however,  that  Finland's  debt  was  low  by 
OECD  standards,  and  they  suggested  that  the  country's  external 
imbalances  could  be  sustained  for  many  years. 

Regional  Economic  Integration 

Until  1917  the  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland  enjoyed  a  privileged 
position  as  a  relatively  advanced  part  of  the  Russian  Empire,  sup- 
plying metal  products  and  ships  in  exchange  for  agricultural  goods. 
These  ties  collapsed,  however,  when  political  tensions  between  the 
Bolshevik  regime  and  the  Finnish  Republic  precluded  commercial 
agreements.  The  interwar  pattern  was  reversed  in  the  years  fol- 
lowing World  War  II,  as  reparations  payments  and  barter  trade 
grew  into  a  close  trading  relationship  in  which  Finland  exported 
industrial  goods,  especially  capital  goods,  in  exchange  for  raw 
materials  and  fuels — an  arrangement  roughly  parallel  to  that  which 
had  existed  before  1917. 

Starting  in  the  late  1950s,  however,  Finland  broke  away  from 
its  dependence  on  the  Soviet  market,  successfully  opening  its  econ- 
omy to  the  two  West  European  trading  blocks,  the  European  Eco- 
nomic Community  (EEC — see  Glossary)  and  the  European  Free 
Trade  Association  (EFTA — see  Glossary).  Expanded  trade  with 
the  West  did  not  imply  renunciation  of  profitable  exchanges  with 
the  East,  however,  because  Finnish  commercial  ties  with  the  Soviet 
Union  and  with  the  other  members  of  the  Council  for  Mutual  Eco- 
nomic Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon — see  Glossary) 
deepened  after  1960.  By  the  late  1980s,  Finland  provided  a  unique 
example  of  a  neutral  country  with  a  free-market  economy  that  had 
developed  increasing  economic  interdependence  with  both  the  mar- 
ket economies  of  Western  Europe  and  the  planned  economies  of 
Eastern  Europe. 


207 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Although  many  Western  observers  saw  in  Finnish  foreign  eco- 
nomic poUcy  the  dominance  of  security  concerns  over  economic 
interests,  close  inspection  revealed  a  mixture  of  motives.  The  guid- 
ing principles  of  postwar  foreign  policy — Finland's  need  to  assure 
the  Soviet  Union  that  it  did  not  have  to  fear  threats  from  (or 
through)  Finnish  territory  as  well  as  Finland's  practice  of  active 
neutrality — influenced  trade  policies  toward  the  East,  especially  in 
the  immediate  postwar  years.  Such  concerns  blocked  Finnish  par- 
ticipation in  the  Marshall  Plan  and  in  the  Organisation  for  Euro- 
pean Economic  Co-operation  (OEEC),  which  was  established  to 
coordinate  the  use  of  Marshall  Plan  aid  (see  Foreign  Relations, 
ch.  4).  Trade  with  the  East  also  served  important  economic  interests, 
however,  driving  the  rapid  development  of  the  metalworking 
industries  during  the  1950s  and  helping  to  absorb  labor  released 
from  the  modernizing  farm  sector.  In  the  years  after  the  1973  oil 
crisis,  Finnish  exports  to  the  Soviet  Union  also  provided  an  essen- 
tial market  at  a  time  of  recession  in  Western  markets.  Commenta- 
tors suggested  that  by  the  1980s,  the  Finns,  less  concerned  with 
security  than  they  had  been  in  the  early  postwar  years,  based  policy 
decisions  almost  exclusively  on  market  considerations. 

Ties  to  West  European  Markets 

Although  trade  with  Western  Europe  developed  slowly  in  the 
early  postwar  years,  by  the  1980s  it  was  more  important  than  trade 
with  the  East.  During  the  early  and  mid-1950s,  when  the  West 
European  countries  liberalized  trade  and  exchange  regulations 
under  the  OEEC ,  Finland  maintained  import  and  export  controls 
inherited  from  World  War  II  and  the  reparations  years.  Conduct- 
ing almost  all  trade  under  bilatercil  agreements  (except  for  occa- 
sional trilateral  deals  worked  out  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  another 
East  European  country),  Finland  saw  its  trade  grow  only  slowly. 
Thus,  although  the  forest  industries  were  competitive,  the  econo- 
my as  a  whole  remained  isolated.  The  Finns  did  participate  to  a 
limited  extent  in  international  economic  organizations,  joining  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  the  World 
Bank  (see  Glossary),  and  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and 
Trade  (GATT — see  Glossary)  in  the  late  1940s.  The  country  also 
became  a  member  of  the  Nordic  Council  and  agreed  to  a  Nordic 
labor  market,  but  did  not  favor  a  Nordic  common  market  because 
of  Soviet  opposition.  Faced  by  the  growing  movement  toward  West 
European  economic  integration  after  1955,  Finland  ran  the  risk 
of  remaining  on  the  sidelines,  not  only  because  of  Soviet  pressures 
but  also  as  a  result  of  domestic  protectionism. 


208 


The  Economy 


It  was  not  until  1957  that  the  Finns  first  shifted  their  policy  toward 
Western  Europe  in  a  move  designed  to  protect  access  to  tradition- 
al export  markets,  especially  in  Britain,  and  to  shift  economic 
activity  to  branches  in  which  the  country  had  a  comparative  ad- 
vantage at  a  time  when  extensive  economic  growth  was  reaching 
its  limits.  The  new  policy  package  combined  an  austerity  program, 
a  sharp  currency  devaluation,  and  multilateral  tariff  reduc- 
tions for  trade  in  industricil  goods  arranged  through  the  Helsinki 
Club,  which  was  a  model  for  further  trade  agreements.  In  effect, 
Soviet  opposition  had  blocked  Finnish  membership  in  the  OEEC , 
leading  the  Finns  to  set  up  the  Helsinki  Club,  which  the  OEEC 
countries,  agreeing  to  apply  their  liberalized  import  lists  to  Fin- 
nish goods,  then  joined.  In  1958  Finnish  authorities  further  liber- 
alized trading  conditions  by  making  the  Finnish  mark  convertible 
in  European  markets. 

Since  the  late  1950s,  Finland  has  consistently  pursued  freer  trade 
in  industrial  products  with  the  members  of  EFTA  and  the  EEC , 
while  protecting  domestic  agriculture  to  maintain  food  supplies  and 
while  controlling  oil  imports  to  safeguard  trade  with  the  Soviet 
Union.  Under  the  FINEFTA  agreement,  signed  in  March  1961, 
Britain  and  other  EFTA  states  extended  associate  membership  and 
free-trade  arrcingements  to  Finland.  In  1969  Finland  joined  the  Or- 
nisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development  (OECD — see 
Glossary),  the  successor  to  the  OEEC.  Although  the  OECD  played 
a  minor  role  in  commodity  trade,  its  recommendations  regarding 
cooperation  among  industrialized  free-market  economies  touched 
on  issues  such  as  freer  trade  in  services  Eind  liberalized  capital  trans- 
fers. When  two  important  trading  partners,  Britain  and  Denmark, 
switched  from  EFTA  to  the  EEC,  Finland  (like  the  other  EFTA 
states)  negotiated  with  the  EEC  an  industrial  free-trade  agree- 
ment that  came  into  effect  in  1974.  In  1986  Finland  became  a  regu- 
lar member  of  EFTA,  the  Soviet  Union  finally  having  recognized 
that  the  organization  posed  no  threat  to  its  security  or  its  trade 
interests.  Under  these  free-trade  agreements,  virtucilly  all  Finnish 
industrial  goods  entered  West  European  markets  duty-free  (but 
they  sometimes  faced  troublesome  nontariff  barriers).  These  ar- 
rangements led  to  rapid  increases  in  trade  with  Western  Europe, 
stimulating  specialization  and  improving  economic  efficiency  in 
Finland. 

Finnish  business  intensified  its  interest  in  Western  Europe  dur- 
ing the  mid-1980s  and  the  late  1980s,  as  falling  oil  prices  led  to 
a  curtailment  in  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union.  In  1986  and  1987, 
the  Finns  managed  to  shift  trade  smoothly  from  Eastern  to  Western 
markets,  a  development  that  soothed  trade  worries.  Despite  this 


209 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

success,  in  early  1987  prominent  Finns  voiced  fears  that  the  EC's 
plan  to  unify  its  markets  by  1992,  a  plan  approved  in  June  1985, 
might  harm  Finnish  trade  interests.  According  to  this  line  of 
thought,  the  elimination  of  the  remaining  hindrances  to  trade  in 
commodities,  the  establishment  of  free  markets  in  services  and  cap- 
ital, and  the  further  harmonization  of  European  macroeconomic 
policies  would  favor  EC  products,  reducing  Finnish  access  to  EC 
markets.  Commentary  became  especially  heated  after  reports  that 
other  EFTA  states,  including  Norway  and  Austria,  were  considering 
joining  the  EC,  as  Portugal  had  done  in  1986.  Moreover,  the  ten- 
dency for  EC  countries  to  expand  cooperation  from  economic  mat- 
ters to  security  questions  made  Finnish  membership  in  the  EC 
politically  impossible. 

Informed  anadysts  noted  that,  as  it  had  in  the  years  after  1957, 
Finland  could  maintain  access  to  European  markets  without 
undermining  its  independent  foreign  policy.  Although  deepened 
integration  among  the  EC  countries  would  tend  to  reduce  EC- 
EFTA  trade,  Finland  and  the  other  EFTA  countries  were  not 
defenseless.  As  a  group,  the  EFTA  countries  formed  the  EC's  lar- 
gest trading  partner  and  could  exert  considerable  pressure  on  EC 
harmonization  decisions.  Indeed,  the  EC  had  demonstrated  some 
willingness  to  cooperate  with  the  EFTA  countries  in  April  1984, 
when  representatives  of  the  two  trading  groups  issued  the  Luxem- 
bourg Declaration,  which  called  for  reduced  technical  barriers  to 
trade,  for  common  norms  in  information  technology  and  telecom- 
munications, and  for  greater  cooperation  in  multilateral  research 
and  development  programs.  Even  if  EFTA  efforts  lagged,  Finland 
could  maintain  trade  ties  with  the  EC  by  aligning  national  techni- 
cal norms,  commercial  practices,  and  economic  policies  with  those 
chosen  by  the  EC.  Other  arrangements  were  also  possible.  For 
example,  in  1986  Finland  joined  the  ESA  (which  included  other 
non-EC  countries),  participating  in  the  group's  earth  observation 
satellite  program  as  well  as  in  basic  research  efforts.  In  effect, 
expanded  technical  cooperation  offered  the  prospect  that,  while 
integration  with  the  EC  countries  would  extend  far  beyond  com- 
mercial agreements  during  the  1990s,  Finland  could  participate 
without  sacrificing  political  neutrality. 

Finnish-Soviet  Cooperation 

Originally  established  in  the  chaos  of  the  postwar  years,  Finnish- 
Soviet  economic  ties  developed  apace  during  the  entire  postwar 
period  as  the  two  countries  experimented  with  new  forms  of  inter- 
action between  seemingly  incompatible  economic  systems.  Dur- 
ing the  Cold  War,  the  two  countries  found  this  trade  especially 


210 


The  Economy 


important.  The  Soviet  Union  was  Finland's  largest  trade  partner, 
while  Finland  was  the  Soviet  Union's  largest  Western  client  until 
the  1970s;  in  1987  Finland  still  placed  third  in  Soviet  trade  with 
the  West.  Although  the  relative  importance  of  Finnish-Soviet  trade 
had  declined  in  the  1980s,  the  two  countries  still  needed  each  other's 
business,  and  they  sought  to  compensate  for  the  setbacks  in  trade 
by  expanding  other  forms  of  cooperation. 

Finnish-Soviet  trade  developed  out  of  interim  agreements 
negotiated  in  the  immediate  postwar  years,  especially  the  1947 
Treaty  of  Commerce,  in  which  the  Finns  and  the  Soviets  agreed 
to  expand  bilateral  trade  and  to  extend  to  each  other  most  favored 
nation  status.  During  the  late  1940s,  annual  agreements  set  trade 
targets,  but  in  1950,  with  the  end  of  reparations  deliveries  in  sight, 
the  two  partners  agreed  on  the  first  of  the  five-year  trade  plans  that 
continued  to  regulate  trade  in  the  late  1980s.  These  plans,  which 
contained  commodity  quotas  for  both  imports  and  exports,  cdlowed 
both  sides  to  anticipate  deliveries — a  plus  for  Finland's  shipbuild- 
ing and  other  heavy  industries.  Annual  trade  protocols,  negotiat- 
ed in  accordance  with  the  five-year  plans,  provided  a  detailed  list 
of  expected  exchanges.  Although  in  the  Soviet  Union  the  govern- 
ment traditionally  monopolized  foreign  deal  making,  in  Finland 
private  firms  were  free  to  negotiate  with  minimal  government  in- 
terference. The  parties  to  individual  transactions  set  the  terms  of 
exchange — including  delivery  dates  and  prices — which  generally 
reflected  world  market  conditions.  A  licensing  system,  covering  both 
imports  and  exports,  enforced  the  planned  trade  balance. 

The  barter  arrangements  of  the  early  postwar  years  soon  gave 
way  to  a  ruble  clearing  account  jointly  administered  by  the  BOF 
and  the  Soviet  Foreign  Trade  Bank.  Under  this  scheme,  individual 
transactions  did  not  need  to  balance,  provided  that  total  trade 
balanced  in  each  five-year  period  and  that  payment  imbalances  did 
not  exceed  a  ceiling  of  about  5  percent  of  the  annual  value  of  trade. 
Other  payment  arrangements  were  developed  when  needed.  Be- 
tween 1956  and  1965,  for  example,  the  Soviets  made  hard-currency 
payments  to  cover  the  costs  of  imported  materials  in  Finnish  ship- 
ments to  the  Soviet  Union.  In  addition,  barter  still  played  a  role 
in  border  trade,  which  was  regulated  by  a  special  section  of  the 
annuad  trade  protocol. 

During  the  1960s  and  1970s,  the  two  countries  further  institu- 
tionalized their  economic  relationship,  often  as  a  result  of  negotia- 
tions initiated  from  the  Finnish  side.  In  1960  the  Finns,  invoking 
the  most  favored  nation  clause  of  the  1947  Treaty  of  Commerce, 
negotiated  a  free-trade  agreement  to  compensate  the  Soviet  Union 
for  the  FINEFTA  agreement.  In  1967  the  two  states  established 


211 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

the  Finnish- Soviet  Intergovernmentcd  Commission  for  Economic 
Cooperation,  which  set  the  five-year  and  the  annual  trade  projec- 
tions and  studied  other  forms  of  cooperation.  In  1973,  after  sign- 
ing a  free-trade  agreement  with  the  EEC ,  Finland  became  the  first 
Western  nation  to  reach  cin  agreement  with  Comecon;  Finland  com- 
plemented this  agreement  with  bilateral  free-trade  treaties  with  most 
East  European  Comecon  members.  Another  importaint  step  toward 
improved  ties  came  in  1977,  when  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union 
decided  on  a  fifteen-year  Long-term  Economic  Plan  meant  to 
smooth  out  trade  fluctuations  between  the  five-year  plans. 

Despite  these  elaborate  institutional  arrangements,  prospects  for 
expanding  Finnish- Soviet  trade  dimmed  after  1986,  when  falling 
oil  prices  sharply  reduced  the  Soviet  Union's  ability  to  finance  im- 
ports from  Finland.  Soviet  consumer  goods  sold  poorly  on  the  Fin- 
nish market,  and  the  Soviets  reportedly  preferred  selling  their  few 
competitive  industrial  products  in  hard-currency  markets,  mak- 
ing it  hard  to  find  substitutes  for  oil  imports.  The  Finns,  long 
unchallenged  in  Eastern  markets,  found  increased  competition  from 
other  Western  exporters.  The  reform  movement  initiated  by  Soviet 
party  leader  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  had  both  advantages  and  dis- 
advantages for  the  Finns.  In  the  long  run,  increased  flexibility  and 
new  emphasis  on  consumer  goods  were  likely  to  improve  prospects 
for  trade.  Finns  experienced  immediate  difficulties,  however,  when 
Moscow  decided  to  decentralize  foreign-trade  decision  making, 
reducing  the  importance  of  long-standing  Finnish  contacts  in  the 
Soviet  Ministry  of  Foreign  Trade.  As  a  result  of  these  develop- 
ments, analysts  predicted  that  Finnish-Soviet  trade  might  decline 
by  as  much  as  10  percent  per  year  in  1988  and  1989,  unless  world 
oil  prices  rose  again. 

In  the  late  1980s,  concerns  about  falling  exports  to  the  East  filled 
the  business  press  with  reports  of  the  difficulties  faced  by  Finnish 
agriculture,  textiles,  leather  goods,  and  shipbuilding,  sectors  par- 
ticularly dependent  on  the  Soviet  market.  Many  analysts  believed, 
however,  that  the  Finns  would  find  ways  to  preserve  their  exch2inges 
with  Soviet  enterprises.  Aware  of  their  common  interests,  policy 
makers  in  the  two  countries  addressed  immediate  problems  and 
invented  new  forms  of  East- West  cooperation.  At  the  end  of  1986, 
the  Soviets  agreed  to  convert  the  Finnish  surplus  on  the  clearing 
account  to  a  loan  paying  interest  at  world  rates,  with  guarantees 
on  the  ruble's  exchange  rate.  In  early  1987,  Finland's  state  petro- 
leum company,  Neste,  arranged  to  import  increased  amounts  of 
Soviet  oil,  which  it  reexported,  sometimes  after  refining  operations. 

In  the  spring  of  1987,  a  Finnish  firm  became  the  first  Western 
enterprise  to  establish  a  joint  venture  with  Soviet  partners  by 


212 


The  Economy 


investing  in  an  Estonian  paint  factory.  Later,  Finnair  agreed  to 
form  a  joint  venture  to  renovate  and  operate  a  luxury  hotel  in 
Moscow.  The  two  sides  were  also  exploring  compensation  projects, 
in  which  Finnish  enterprises  would  help  to  build  industrial  facili- 
ties in  the  Soviet  Union  and  would  accept  a  share  of  the  resulting 
output  as  full  or  partial  payment.  In  March  1988,  Moscow 
announced  plans  to  list  several  Soviet  companies  on  the  Helsinki 
Stock  Exchange.  Thus,  although  Finnish- Soviet  trade  might  well 
decline  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s,  it  appeared  likely  that 
the  Finns  would  find  ways  to  maintain  and  to  improve  the  long- 
standing economic  relationships  with  their  neighbors  in  the  Soviet 
Union  and  Eastern  Europe. 

*    *  * 

The  OECD's  annual  economic  survey,  Finland,  most  recently 
published  in  April  1988,  is  an  authoritative  and  readily  available 
summary  of  the  Finnish  economy  that  includes  up-to-date  statisti- 
cal tables.  The  Financial  Times  (published  in  London)  provides  regu- 
lar coverage  and  occasional  surveys  of  Finnish  economic  and 
business  developments.  The  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  quar- 
terly Country  Report:  Finland  and  annual  Country  Profile:  Finland 
oudine  economic  and  political  trends  and  include  up-to-date  statisti- 
cal material.  The  Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics,  published  by  the  Nordic 
Council  of  Ministers,  provides  official  economic  statistics  in  a  for- 
mat that  allows  comparison  with  other  Nordic  states;  the  Statistical 
Yearbook  of  Finland,  issued  by  the  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Fin- 
land, supplies  more  detailed  statistics,  although  it  is  less  widely  dis- 
tributed. 

No  comprehensive  survey  of  the  Finnish  economy  exists  in 
English,  but  a  number  of  publications  offer  partial  views.  Finland 
and  Its  Geography,  edited  by  Raye  R.  Piatt,  although  now  rather 
dated,  offers  a  geographical  introduction  to  economic  affairs.  Fred 
Singleton's  The  Economy  of  Finland  in  the  Twentieth  Century  sketches 
the  historical  background.  Dieter  Senghass's  The  European  Experience 
and  essays  by  Risto  Alapuro,  Matti  Alestalo,  Stein  Kuhnle,  and 
Kimmo  Kiljunen  analyze  the  country's  economic  development  in 
comparative  frameworks.  David  Arter's  Politics  and  Policy-making 
in  Finland  and  Lars  Mjoset's  "Nordic  Economic  Policies  in  the  1970s 
and  1980s"  explain  the  institutional  and  international  influences 
on  economic  policy  making.  The  Bank  of  Finland  Bulletin  offers 
in-depth  analytical  articles  on  topics  of  current  interest,  and  the 
varied  publications  of  Finland's  government  and  of  Finnish 
producer  groups,  generally  available  from  the  Embassy  of  Finland 


213 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

in  Washington,  give  information  about  particular  sectors.  (For  fur- 
ther information  and  complete  citations,   see  Bibliography.) 


214 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


I 


1 


I 


Parliament  building,  Helsinki 


Since  the  establishment  of  its  present  system  of  govern- 
ment in  1919,  Finland  has  been  one  of  the  more  fortunate  mem- 
bers of  the  Western  community  of  democratic  nations.  Compared 
with  other  European  states,  the  country  was  only  moderately  af- 
fected by  the  political  turmoil  of  the  interwar  period;  it  passed 
through  World  War  II  relatively  unscathed;  and,  although  right 
on  the  line  that  divided  Europe  into  two  hostile  blocs  after  the  second 
half  of  the  1940s,  it  survived  as  an  independent  nation  with  its 
democratic  institutions  intact. 

This  enviable  record  was  achieved  against  formidable  odds. 
Although  the  constitutional  basis  of  their  government  grew  out  of 
long-established  institutions,  Finns  had  never  been  fully  free  to 
govern  themselves  until  late  1917  when  they  achieved  national  in- 
dependence. Swedish  and  Russian  rulers  had  always  ultimately 
determined  their  affairs.  Finnish  society  was  also  marked  by  deep 
fissures  that  became  deeper  after  the  brief  civil  war  (1918),  which 
left  scars  that  needed  several  generations  to  heal.  In  addition  to 
class  and  political  divisions,  the  country  adso  had  to  contend  with 
regional  and  linguistic  differences.  These  problems  were  eventu- 
ally surmounted,  and  by  the  1980s  the  watchword  in  Finnish  politics 
was  consensus. 

A  skillfully  constructed  system  of  government  cillowed  Finns  to 
manage  their  affairs  with  the  participation  of  all  social  groups 
(although  there  were  some  serious  lapses  in  the  interwar  period). 
Checks  and  balances,  built  into  a  system  of  modified  separation 
of  powers,  enabled  the  government  to  function  democratically  and 
protected  the  basic  rights  of  all  citizens.  The  200-member  parlia- 
ment, the  Eduskunta,  elected  by  popular  vote,  was  sovereign  by 
virtue  of  its  representing  the  Finnish  people.  An  elected  president 
wielded  supreme  executive  power  and  determined  foreign  policy. 
Although  not  responsible  politically  to  the  Eduskunta,  the  presi- 
dent could  carry  out  many  of  his  functions  only  through  a  cabinet 
government,  the  Council  of  State,  which  was  dependent  upon  the 
support  of  the  Eduskunta.  An  independent  judiciary,  assisted  by 
two  legal  officials  with  broad  independent  powers — the  chancellor 
of  justice  and  the  parliamentary  ombudsman — ensured  that  govern- 
ment institutions  adhered  to  the  law. 

Working  within  this  system  during  the  1980s  were  a  variety  of 
political  parties,  an  average  of  about  a  dozen,  ranging  from  sect- 
like groups  to  large,  well-established  parties,  the  counterparts  of 


217 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

which  were  to  be  found  all  over  Western  Europe.  The  socialist  wing 
consisted  of  a  deeply  split  communist  movement  and  a  moderate 
Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party  that  by  the  late  1980s  was  a  pre- 
eminent governing  party.  The  center  was  occupied  by  an  agrari- 
an party,  the  Center  Party,  which  had  been  in  government  almost 
continuously  until  1987;  the  Swedish  People's  Party;  and  a  for- 
merly right-wing  protest  party,  the  Finnish  Rural  Party.  The  right 
was  dominated  by  the  National  Coalition  Party,  which  was  fairly 
moderate  in  its  conservatism.  In  the  1970s  and  the  1980s,  the  main- 
stream parties,  and  even  a  good  part  of  the  Communist  Party  of 
Finland,  had  moved  toward  the  center,  and  the  political  spectrum 
as  a  whole  was  slightly  more  to  the  right  than  it  had  been  in  previ- 
ous decades. 

A  constitutional  system  that  was  conservative  in  nature  had 
allowed  these  parties  to  work  together,  yet  within  constraints  that 
permitted  no  single  group  to  usurp  the  rights  of  another.  Neverthe- 
less, the  variety  of  parties  had  made  it  very  difficult  to  put  together 
coalitions  that  could  attain  the  strict  qualified  majorities  needed 
to  effect  fundamentail  changes.  Only  since  the  second  half  of  the 
1960s  had  it  been  possible,  though  at  times  difficult,  to  find  a  broad 
multiparty  consensus. 

Powerful  interest  groups  were  also  involved  in  Finnish  politics, 
most  noticeably  in  the  negotiation  and  the  realization  of  biannual 
income  policy  settlements  that,  since  the  late  1960s,  had  affected 
most  Finnish  wage-earners.  Interest  groups  initially  negotiated  the 
terms  of  a  new  wage  agreement;  then  it  was,  in  effect,  ratified  by 
coalitions  of  parties  in  government;  and  finally  the  Eduskunta 
passed  the  social  and  economic  legislation  that  underlay  it.  Some 
observers  complained  that  government's  role  had  become  overly 
passive  in  this  process  and  that  the  preeminence  of  consensus 
actually  meant  that  Finnish  politics  offered  the  populace  no  real 
alternatives.  Yet  most  Finns,  remembering  earlier  years  of  indus- 
trial strife  and  poverty,  preferred  the  new  means  of  managing  public 
affairs. 

There  was  also  broad  agreement  about  Finnish  foreign  policy. 
The  country  was  threatened  with  extinction  as  an  independent 
nation  after  World  War  II,  but  presidents  Juho  Paasikivi  and  Urho 
Kekkonen,  both  masters  of  realpolitik,  led  their  countrymen  to  a 
new  relationship  with  the  Soviet  Union.  The  core  of  this  relation- 
ship was  Finland's  guarantee  to  the  Soviet  Union  that  its  north- 
western border  region  was  militarily  secure.  Controversisd  as  the 
so-called  Paasikivi-Kekkonen  Line  was  initially,  by  the  1980s  the 
vast  majority  of  Finns  approved  of  the  way  Finland  dealt  with  its 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


large  neighbor  and  were  well  aware,  too,  of  the  trade  advantages 
the  special  relationship  had  brought  to  their  country. 

Working  in  tandem  with  good  Finnish-Soviet  relations  was  the 
poUcy  of  active  and  peaceful  neutrality,  the  backbone  of  Finnish 
foreign  policy.  Advocating,  as  a  neutral  state,  the  settlement  of  dis- 
putes through  peaceful,  legal  means  was  a  role  Finns  adopted  will- 
ingly. A  high  point  of  this  policy  was  the  part  the  country  played 
in  planning  and  in  hosting  the  1975  Conference  on  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe.  Another  facet  of  active  neutrality  was  a 
committed  membership  in  the  United  Nations,  most  notably  in 
the  organization's  peacekeeping  forces. 

Constitutional  Framework 

Finland's  government  structure  has  remained  largely  unchanged 
since  it  was  established  in  1919  with  the  passage  of  the  Constitu- 
tion Act  (see  The  Establishment  of  Finnish  Democracy,  ch.  1). 
Building  on  a  combination  of  old  institutions  from  both  the  Swed- 
ish and  the  Russian  periods,  this  law,  together  with  three  others 
also  of  constitutional  status,  has  given  Finland  a  system  that  has 
been  remarkably  successful  in  allowing  a  once  deeply  divided  na- 
tion to  govern  itself. 

Constitutional  Development 

Finland,  adthough  independent  of  foreign  rule  only  since  1917, 
has  traditions  of  self-government  extending  back  into  the  Middle 
Ages.  Because  their  country  belonged  to  the  dual  kingdom  of 
Sweden-Finland  for  more  than  600  years,  Finns  had  long  enjoyed 
the  common  Nordic  right  to  manage  local  affairs  by  themselves. 
Beginning  in  1362,  Finns  took  part  in  the  election  of  the  Swedish 
king,  and  they  thus  became  involved  in  the  government  of  the  realm 
as  a  whole.  This  role  was  increased  after  1435,  when  they  began 
sending  representatives  to  the  kingdom's  governing  body,  the  Diet 
of  the  Four  Estates  (Riksdag). 

The  Swedish  Diet  Act  of  1 6 1 7  and  the  Form  of  Government  Act 
of  1634  formalized  the  Finnish  tradition  of  estates,  whereby  lead- 
ing members  of  the  country,  representatives  not  only  of  regions 
but  of  soci2il  classes  as  well,  met  to  decide  matters  of  common  con- 
cern. Although  the  acts  restricted  local  government  somewhat,  they 
brought  Finns  more  than  ever  into  the  management  of  the  king- 
dom's affairs.  At  regular  intervads  a  Finn  presided  over  the  nobili- 
ty, the  most  important  of  the  four  estates  of  the  Diet;  consisting 
also  of  the  estates  of  the  clergy,  burghers,  and  peasantry,  the  Diet 
continued  to  be  Finland's  representative  governing  body  until  early 
in  the  twentieth  century. 


219 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Royal  power  was  strengthened  by  the  constitution  of  1772,  forced 
on  the  Diet  by  King  Gustav  III.  This  constitution,  in  effect  in  Fin- 
land until  1919,  long  after  it  had  been  abrogated  in  Sweden,  gave 
the  king  final  say  about  the  decisions  of  the  Diet.  The  king's  power 
was  further  augmented  by  the  Act  of  Union  and  Security  of  1789, 
which  gave  him  exclusive  initiative  in  legislative  matters. 

Ceded  by  Sweden  to  Russia  in  1809,  Finland  was  not  incorpo- 
rated fully  into  the  empire  by  Tsar  Alexander  I,  but  retained  its 
own  legal  system  (see  The  Russian  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland, 
1809-1917,  ch.  1).  A  small  body,  the  Senate,  was  established  to 
administer  the  country.  Its  two  sections,  finsince  and  justice,  later 
became  the  basis  of  independent  Finland's  cabinet  and  supreme 
courts.  The  Senate's  head,  the  governor  general,  the  highest  offi- 
cial in  Finland,  was  a  Russian  appointed  by  the  tsar.  An  indica- 
tion of  the  country's  relative  autonomy,  however,  was  that  all  other 
officiads  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland  were  native  Finns. 

The  tsar,  who  had  the  right  to  determine  when  the  Diet  met, 
dissolved  the  assembly  in  1809,  and  it  did  not  meet  again  until  1863 
when  reccdled  by  Alexander  II,  the  Tsar  Liberator.  Thereafter  the 
Diet  met  regularly,  and  in  the  late  1860s  it  ushered  in  the  "Gold- 
en Age"  of  Finnish  legislation,  a  period  of  several  decades  during 
which  the  country's  laws  were  modernized  and  were  brought  into 
harmony  with  the  legal  codes  of  Western  Europe.  It  was  during 
this  period,  too,  that  political  parties  appeared,  emerging  first  from 
the  campaign  to  give  the  Finnish  language  its  rightful  place  in  the 
country,  then  from  the  growing  resistance  to  Russian  rule,  and 
fincJly  from  the  question  of  how  to  contend  with  the  coming  of 
industrialization  and  labor  strife. 

The  aggressive  Russification  campaign  that  began  in  the  1890s 
sought  to  end  the  relative  autonomy  Finland  had  enjoyed  under 
tsarist  rule  (see  The  Era  of  Russification,  ch.  1).  A  military  defeat 
in  East  Asia  weakened  the  Russian  empire  and  gave  Finns  a  chance 
for  greater  freedom.  The  Diet  unanimously  dissolved  itself  in  1906, 
and  a  parliament,  the  Eduskunta,  a  unicamercd  body  elected  by 
universcd  suffrage,  was  created.  Finland  became  in  one  step  a 
modern  representative  democracy  and  the  first  European  nation 
to  grant  women  the  right  to  vote. 

The  tsarist  regime  allowed  the  assembly  few  of  its  rights,  however, 
and  only  after  the  collapse  of  the  Russian  Empire  and  the  Bolshe- 
vik Revolution  of  1917  were  the  Finns  able  to  secure  their  indepen- 
dence. A  civil  war  and  bitter  political  debates  about  whether  the 
country  should  be  a  monarchy  or  a  republic  preceded  the  passage 
of  the  Constitution  Act  of  1919,  which  established  the  present  sys- 
tem of  government  in  Finland. 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


The  Constitution 

Finland's  Constitution  is  not  a  single  law,  but  rather  a  collec- 
tion of  four  laws  that  have  constitutional  status.  The  most  impor- 
tant is  the  Constitution  Act  of  1919,  which  lays  out  the  functions 
and  relationships  of  the  most  important  government  entities,  lists 
the  basic  rights  of  Finnish  citizens  and  the  legal  institutions  charged 
with  their  protection,  and  makes  provisions  for  managing  state 
finances  and  for  organizing  the  defense  forces  and  public  offices. 
The  second  of  the  basic  laws  is  the  Parliament  Act  of  1928,  a  slightly 
modernized  version  of  the  Parliament  Act  of  1906,  which  estab- 
lished the  country's  democratically  elected  parliament,  the  Eduskun- 
ta,  and  spelled  out  its  procedures.  Two  other  basic  laws  date  from 
1922  and  involve  supervision  of  the  cabinet  or  government:  the 
Responsibility  of  Ministers  Act,  which  details  the  legal  responsi- 
bilities of  the  members  of  the  cabinet  and  the  chancellor  of  justice; 
and  the  High  Court  of  Impeachment  Act,  which  explains  how  they 
are  to  be  made  accountable  for  infractions  of  the  law. 

Two  acts  dealing  with  the  self-determination  of  the  Aland  Islands 
also  have  constitutional  status  (see  fig.  1).  The  Autonomy  Act  of 
1951  protects  the  Swedish  character  of  the  archipelago,  and  a  law 
of  1975  restricts  the  purchase  and  ownership  of  land  on  the  islands. 

The  Constitution  Act  of  1919,  building  on  existing  Finnish 
institutions,  established  a  parliamentary  system  of  government 
based  on  a  division  of  powers  among  the  legislative,  the  executive, 
and  the  judicial  branches  of  government.  But  the  separation  of  pow- 
ers is  not  complete,  and  the  branches'  powers  and  functions  are 
overlapping  and  interlocking.  Sovereign  power  rests  with  the  Fin- 
nish people,  who  govern  themselves  through  the  Eduskunta.  Shar- 
ing legislative  power  with  the  parliament,  however,  is  a  president, 
who  also  wields  supreme  executive  power.  He  exercises  this  power 
through  the  Council  of  State,  a  cabinet  of  ministers.  In  accordance 
with  parliamentary  norms,  this  cabinet  must  resign  if  it  loses  the 
support  of  the  Eduskunta.  The  judiciary  is  independent,  yet  it  is 
bound  by  the  laws  passed  by  the  Eduskunta,  which,  in  turn,  fol- 
lows constitutional  norms  in  drafting  them. 

Like  other  Nordic  countries,  Finland  has  no  constitutional  court. 
The  Eduskunta,  acting  through  its  Constitutional  Committee, 
serves  as  the  ultimate  arbiter  of  the  constitutionality  of  a  law  or 
legislative  proposal.  Composed  of  seventeen  members,  chosen  to 
represent  the  party  composition  of  the  full  chamber,  the  commit- 
tee seeks  expert  opinion  and  lets  itself  be  bound  by  legal  precedents. 

The  Constitution  may  be  amended  if  proposals  to  this  end  meet 
qualified  or  set  majority  requirements.  The  requirements  are  such 


221 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


that  as  few  as  one-sixth  of  the  Eduskunta's  members  can  prevent 
the  passage  of  amendments.  The  large  number  of  Finnish  poUti- 
cal  parties  makes  attaining  qualified  majorities  nearly  impossible, 
unless  an  amendment  has  widespread  support.  This  protects  the 
rights  of  minorities. 

The  individual  rights  of  Finnish  citizens  are  delineated  in  Sec- 
tion II  of  the  Constitution  Act,  Article  5  through  Article  16,  and, 
with  a  single  addition,  they  have  remained  unchanged  since  their 
adoption  in  1919.  The  additional  amendment,  enacted  in  1972, 
promises  cdl  Finns  the  opportunity  for  gainful  employment,  to  be 
provided  by  the  state  if  necessary.  The  list  of  rights  is,  of  necessity, 
rather  general.  How  they  are  exercised,  protected,  and  limited  is 
set  out  in  ordinary  laws.  The  state  reserves  for  itself  the  right  to 
limit  them  "in  time  of  war  or  rebellion." 

First  and  foremost,  all  citizens  are  equal  under  the  law,  with  a 
constitutional  guarantee  of  their  rights  to  life,  honor,  personal  free- 
dom, and  property.  The  reference  to  honor  provides  for  protec- 
tion against  false  and  slanderous  charges  and  reflects  the  importance 
of  reputation  in  Finnish  tradition.  The  protection  of  property  and 
the  requirement  for  full  compensation  if  it  is  expropriated  for  public 
needs  indicate  the  conservative  nature  of  the  Finnish  Constitution. 
The  right  of  freedom  of  movement  encompasses  residence,  pro- 
tection from  deportation,  and  guaranteed  readmittance  into  Fin- 
land. Only  in  special  cases,  such  as  convictions  for  criminal  activity, 
are  these  freedoms  abridged.  Complete  freedom  of  religious  wor- 
ship and  association  is  guaranteed,  as  is  freedom  from  religion. 

Finnish  citizens  are  guaranteed  free  speech  and  the  right  of 
assembly,  as  well  as  the  right  to  publish  uncensored  texts  or  pic- 
tures. The  inviolability  of  the  home  is  promised,  and  a  domicile 
can  be  searched  only  according  to  conditions  set  by  law.  Privacy 
of  communications  by  mail,  telegraph,  or  telephone  is  likewise 
provided  for.  A  Finn  may  be  tried  only  in  a  court  having  prescribed 
jurisdiction  over  him.  The  safeguarding  of  the  cultural  affinities 
of  the  country's  citizens  is  regarded  as  a  fundamental  right,  and, 
as  a  consequence,  the  two  languages  spoken  by  native-born  Finns, 
Finnish  and  Swedish,  both  enjoy  the  status  of  official  language. 
The  act  stipulates  that  a  Finn  may  use  either  of  these  two  languages 
in  a  court  of  law  and  may  obtain  in  that  language  all  pertinent 
legal  or  official  documents.  Finally,  in  accordance  with  its  nature 
as  a  republic,  Finland  grants  no  noble  or  hereditary  titles. 

Governmental  Institutions 

The  four  acts  that  make  up  the  Finnish  Constitution  provide  for 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


a  central  government  divided  into  three  overlapping  branches — 
legislative,  executive,  and  judicial  (see  fig.  19).  Their  mutual  con- 
trol by  an  elaborate  system  of  checks  and  balances  has  permitted 
Finnish  democracy  to  flourish.  Decisions  of  the  central  government 
are  implemented  by  ministries,  semiautonomous  national  boards, 
and  governments  at  the  provincial  and  the  local  levels.  Finnish  local 
government  is  comparatively  extensive,  has  broader  powers  than 
that  of  many  other  countries,  and,  in  accordance  with  the  Consti- 
tution, is  self-governing.  An  efficient,  but  somewhat  politicized, 
civil  service  staffs  these  governmental  structures.  Underpinning  the 
system  is  an  electoral  system  that  permits  the  Finnish  people  to 
determine  their  own  affairs  in  a  democratic  way.  One  region  of 
the  country,  the  Aland  Islands,  is  to  a  degree  autonomous,  a  reflec- 
tion both  of  its  unique  linguistic  heritage  and  the  respect  for 
individual  freedom  embedded  in  the  Finnish  system  of  government. 

Legislature 

The  Eduskunta  is  the  country's  highest  governing  body  by  vir- 
tue of  its  representing  the  people,  who  possess  sovereign  power. 
Its  main  power  is  legislative,  a  power  it  shares  with  the  country's 
president.  It  also  has  extensive  financial  powers,  and  its  approval 
is  required  for  the  government's  annual  budget  and  for  any  loans 
the  government  wants  to  contract.  Although  the  president  is 
dominant  in  the  area  of  foreign  policy,  treaties  must  be  ratified 
by  the  Eduskunta,  and  only  with  its  consent  can  the  country  go 
to  war  or  make  peace.  This  chamber  also  has  supervisory  powers, 
and  it  is  charged  with  seeing  that  the  country  is  governed  in  accor- 
dance with  the  laws  it  has  passed.  To  enforce  its  will,  the  Eduskunta 
has  the  power  to  hold  the  government  to  account,  and  to  call  for 
the  impeachment  of  the  president. 

The  Eduskunta  is  closely  tied  to  the  president  and  to  the  Coun- 
cil of  State.  Neither  the  president  nor  the  cabinet  is  able  to  carry 
out  many  executive  ftmctions  without  the  support  of  the  Eduskunta, 
and  the  cabinet  must  resign  if  it  is  shown  that  it  has  lost  the  cham- 
ber's confidence.  Strong  links  between  the  Eduskunta  and  the 
Council  of  State  result,  too,  from  the  circumstance  that  most  cabi- 
net ministers  are  members  of  parliament.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
Eduskunta  is  subordinate  to  the  president  in  that  he  may  dissolve 
it  and  call  for  new  elections.  Despite  its  legislative  powers,  it  actu- 
ally initiates  little  legislation,  limiting  itself  mainly  to  examining 
the  government  bills  submitted  to  it  by  the  president  and  the  council. 
In  addition,  all  legislation  passed  by  the  Eduskunta  must  bear  the 
president's  signature  and  that  of  a  responsible  minister  in  order 
to  go  into  effect.  The  Eduskunta  need  not  approve  the  legislative 


223 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


224 


Government  and  Politics 


proposals  submitted  to  it,  however,  and  can  alter  or  reject  them. 

As  stipulated  by  the  Parliament  Act  of  1928,  the  Eduskunta's 
200  members  are  elected  by  universal  suffrage  for  four-year  terms. 
All  citizens  twenty  years  of  age  and  older,  who  are  able  to  vote, 
and  who  are  not  professional  military  personnel  or  holders  of  cer- 
tain high  offices,  have  the  right  to  serve  in  the  Eduskunta.  A  wide 
variety  of  the  country's  population  has  served  in  this  body,  and 
its  membership  has  changed  often.  Sometimes  as  many  as  one-third 
of  the  representatives  have  been  first-term  members,  as  occurred 
in  the  1987  national  elections. 

Finnish  election  laws  emphasize  individual  candidates,  which 
sometimes  has  meant  the  election  of  celebrities  to  the  body.  Most 
members,  however,  have  begun  their  political  careers  at  the  local 
level.  In  the  late  1980s,  about  one-third  of  the  representatives  were 
career  politicians.  The  professions  were  overly  represented  at  the 
expense  of  blue-collar  workers;  about  40  percent  of  the  members, 
compared  with  only  3  percent  of  the  population  as  a  whole,  had 
university  degrees.  By  the  1980s,  farmers  and  businessmen  were 
no  longer  so  prevalent  as  they  once  had  been,  while  there  were 
more  journalists  and  managers.  The  number  of  female  represen- 
tatives had  also  increased,  and  by  the  1980s  they  made  up  one- 
third  of  the  chamber.  In  the  1987  election,  women  won  63  of  the 
200  seats. 

Article  11  of  the  1928  Parliament  Act  states  that  members  are 
to  vote  as  their  consciences  dictate.  A  delegate  is  not  legally  bound 
to  vote  as  he  or  she  promised,  in  a  campaign  for  example.  In  the 
late  1980s,  however,  party  discipline  was  strict,  and  delegates  usually 
voted  as  directed  by  their  party. 

The  four-year  term,  or  legislative  period,  of  the  Eduskunta  is 
divided  into  annual  sessions  beginning  in  early  February,  with  va- 
cation breaks  in  the  summer  and  at  Christmas.  The  first  business 
of  a  yearly  session  is  the  election  of  a  speaker,  two  deputy  speak- 
ers, and  committee  chairmen.  Those  elected  make  up  the  speak- 
er's council,  which  is  representative  of  the  party  composition  of 
the  Eduskunta  and  arranges  its  work  schedule.  The  speaker,  by 
tradition  of  a  different  party  from  the  prime  minister,  presides  over 
the  chamber,  but  the  speaker  neither  debates  nor  votes. 

Also  chosen  in  the  first  days  of  a  new  session  are  those,  from 
either  within  or  outside  the  parliament,  who  supervise  the  pension 
institute  and  television  and  radio  broadcasting;  and  five  auditors 
who  monitor  compliance  with  the  government's  budget  and  over- 
see the  Bank  of  Finland  (BOF).  Among  the  most  important  posts 
to  be  filled  by  the  Eduskunta  for  its  four-year  term  are  those  of 


225 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

the  parliamentary  ombudsman  and  the  six  members  of  the 
Eduskunta  who  make  up  half  of  the  High  Court  of  Impeachment. 

Parliament  approves  legislation  in  plenary  sittings,  but  it  is  in 
the  committees  that  government  bills  are  closely  examined.  In  the 
late  1980s,  there  were  thirteen  committees  in  all:  five  permanent 
committees — constitutional,  legal  affairs,  foreign  affairs,  finance, 
and  bank — and  eight  regular  ad  hoc  committees — economy,  law 
and  economy,  cultural  affairs,  agriculture  and  forestry,  social  affairs, 
transportation,  defense,  and  second  legal  affairs.  Committee  mem- 
bership reflects  the  political  composition  of  the  Eduskunta.  Mem- 
bers usually  serve  for  the  whole  legislative  period,  and  they 
commonly  have  seats  on  several  committees,  often  of  their  own 
choosing.  Members  who  have  served  on  a  given  committee  for  a 
number  of  terms  often  develop  considerable  expertise  in  its  area 
of  responsibility. 

Legislative  proposals  also  pass  through  the  forty-five-member 
Grand  Committee.  Only  the  budget,  which  is  not  a  legislative 
proposal  in  Finland,  escapes  its  review.  The  committee,  adopted 
as  a  compromise  in  1 906  between  those  who  advocated  a  bicameral 
legislature  and  those  who  preferred  the  unicameral  body  finally 
established,  was  conceived  as  a  safeguard  against  the  measures  of 
a  perhaps  too  radical  parliament.  It  therefore  examines  proposals 
for  their  legal  soundness  and  propriety.  Yet,  according  to  the  British 
scholar  David  Arter,  the  Grand  Committee  has  only  occasionally 
altered  the  proposals  sent  to  it,  and,  as  a  consequence,  it  has  lost 
prestige  within  the  Eduskunta.  Its  members  are  generally  newly 
elected  representatives. 

The  Eduskunta  has  an  elaborate  procedure  for  handling  govern- 
ment bills  sent  to  it  by  the  president,  after  discussion  and  approval 
in  the  Council  of  State.  This  procedure  was  adopted  with  the  idea 
of  preventing  the  enactment  of  radical  measures,  and  it  is  an  indi- 
cation of  the  Eduskunta' s  essentially  conservative  nature.  Proposals 
are  usually  first  discussed  in  a  plenary  session,  then  directed  by 
the  speaker  to  an  appropriate  committee,  where  they  are  carefully 
scrutinized  in  closed  hearings.  After  committee  review  and  report, 
proposals  are  returned  to  the  plenary  session  for  the  first  reading, 
where  they  are  discussed  but  no  vote  is  taken.  The  next  step  is  the 
Grand  Committee  review.  Working  from  the  Grand  Committee 
report,  the  second  reading  in  plenary  session  is  a  detailed  exami- 
nation of  the  proposal.  If  the  Grand  Committee  report  is  not 
accepted  in  its  entirety,  the  proposal  must  be  returned  to  the  Grand 
Committee  for  further  discussion.  Once  the  proposal  is  back  again 
at  the  plenary  session,  for  the  so-called  continued  second  reading, 
the  Eduskunta  votes  on  the  changes  recommended  by  the  Grand 


226 


Government  and  Politics 


Committee.  There  is  no  discussion  in  the  fmal  and  third  reading; 
the  proposal  is  simply  approved  or  rejected.  Votes  may  be  taken 
at  least  three  days  after  the  second  reading  or  the  continued  second 
reading.  Once  approved  by  the  Eduskunta,  bills  require  the  sig- 
nature of  the  president  within  three  months  to  go  into  effect.  This 
requirement  gives  the  president  the  power  of  suspensive  veto.  This 
veto,  rarely  used,  can  be  overridden  if  the  Eduskunta  approves  the 
bill  with  a  simple  majority  following  new  national  elections. 

Only  the  government's  budget  proposal  is  exempted  from  the 
above  parliamentary  procedure,  because  the  budget  is  not  consid- 
ered a  legislative  proposal  in  Finland.  Instead,  the  budget  proposal 
is  handled  in  a  single  reading,  after  a  close  review  by  the  largest 
and  busiest  parliamentary  committee,  the  twenty-one-member 
Finance  Committee.  Government  bills  connected  with  the  budget 
and  involving  taxation,  however,  must  pass  through  the  three  ple- 
nary session  readings  and  the  Grand  Committee  review.  This  rein- 
forces the  Eduskunta' s  budgetary  control. 

The  Eduskunta' s  elaborate  legislative  procedure  can  be  traversed 
in  a  few  days  if  there  is  broad  agreement  about  the  content  of  a 
bill.  Qualified  majority  requirements  for  much  legislation,  most 
commonly  that  touching  on  financial  matters  and  property  rights, 
enable  a  small  number  of  representatives  to  stop  ratification  in  a 
plenary  session  and  to  oblige  the  government  to  ascertain  a  bill's 
probable  parliamentary  support  before  submitting  it  to  the 
Eduskunta.  Qualified  majority  requirements  for  legislation  involv- 
ing taxation  for  a  period  of  more  than  one  year  require  the  approval 
of  two-thirds  of  the  body.  Sixty-seven  members  can  hold  such  legis- 
lation over  until  after  a  new  election  and  can  thus  effectively  brake 
government  programs.  Because  there  is  no  time  limit  on  a  mem- 
ber's right  to  speak,  filibusters  can  also  slow  the  progress  of  a  bill 
through  the  Eduskunta,  although  this  tactic  has  seldom  been 
employed.  Government  care  in  the  crafting  of  bills  is  reflected  in 
the  unimpeded  passage  through  parliament  of  most  of  them. 

Legislation  altering  the  Constitution  is  subjected  to  more  rig- 
orous requirements.  Constitutional  changes  may  be  approved  by 
a  simple  majority,  but  before  they  go  into  effect,  they  must  be 
approved  again  by  a  two-thirds  majority  in  a  newly  elected 
Eduskunta.  If  the  changes  are  to  go  into  effect  within  the  lifetime 
of  a  single  Eduskunta,  the  legislation  implementing  them  must  be 
declared  "urgent"  by  five-sixths  of  the  body  and,  in  a  subsequent 
vote,  approved  by  a  two- thirds  majority.  This  requirement  means 
that  a  vote  of  one-sixth  against  a  proposed  economic  measure 
regarded  as  being  of  a  constitutional  nature,  such  as  some  incomes 
policy  legislation,  can  prevent  its  enactment  during  a  single 


227 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

parliamentary  term.  These  same  majorities  are  required  for  an 
unusual  feature  of  Finnish  parliamentary  procedure  that  permits 
the  passage  of  laws  that  are  temporary  suspensions  of,  or  excep- 
tions to,  the  Constitution,  but  that  leave  it  intact.  Since  1919  about 
800  of  these  exceptional  laws  have  been  passed,  most  involving  only 
trivial  deviations  from  the  Constitution. 

Members  of  the  Eduskunta  may  initiate  legislation  by  submit- 
ting their  own  private  members'  bills  and  financial  motions  relat- 
ing to  the  budget.  Several  thousand  of  these  are  submitted  each 
year,  but  95  percent  are  not  even  considered,  and  only  a  handful 
are  accepted.  Members  also  may  submit  proposals  connected  to 
government  bills,  or  may  petition  for  certain  actions  to  be  taken. 
The  main  point  of  these  procedures  is  often  a  delegate's  desire  to 
win  the  approval  of  his  constituents  by  bringing  up  an  issue  in  the 
Eduskunta. 

The  Eduskunta  has  other  means  of  exerting  pressure  on  the 
government,  in  addition  to  refusing  to  approve  its  legislative 
proposals.  Its  members  may  address  questions  to  ministers  either 
orally  or  in  writing,  and  in  either  case  a  quick  response  is  required. 
Potentially  much  more  serious  is  an  interpellation,  possible  if  twenty 
members  desire  it,  in  which  case  the  government  can  fall  if  it  fails 
to  survive  a  vote  of  confidence.  Few  governments  fall  in  this  way, 
however,  as  they  are  allowed  to  remain  in  power  as  long  as  a  lack 
of  support  is  not  shown.  Interpellations  have  been  used  principally 
as  a  means  of  drawing  attention  to  a  particular  question,  and  press 
coverage  usually  is  intense. 

An  important  instrument  of  Finnish  parliamentary  control  is  the 
right  and  duty  of  the  Constitutional  Committee  to  exaimine  govern- 
ment bills  with  regard  to  their  constitutionality.  Finland  has  no 
constitutional  court,  and  suggestions  for  its  establishment  have  foun- 
dered because  the  Eduskunta  has  refused  to  cede  this  important 
review  power  to  a  court  that  would  be  outside  parliamentary  con- 
trol. Although  the  committee's  seventeen  members  come  from  par- 
ties with  seats  in  the  Eduskunta,  the  committee  has  strived  for 
impartiality,  has  sought  the  opinions  of  legal  specialists,  and  has 
let  itself  be  bound  by  precedents.  As  evidence  that  it  takes  its  respon- 
sibilities seriously,  committee  members  representing  both  the  far 
left  and  the  far  right  have  agreed  with  80  percent  of  its  judgements 
over  a  long  period  of  time. 

The  Eduskunta  also  exercises  control  of  the  executive  through 
the  Responsibility  of  Ministers  Act,  which  can  be  used  against 
the  government  or  an  individual  minister  if  a  parliamentary 
committee,  the  parliamentary  ombudsman,  or  five  members  of 
the  Eduskunta  so  decide.  The  Eduskunta' s  ability  to  control  the 


228 


The  Eduskunta,  Finland's  parliament,  in  session 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

government  is  also  apparent  in  its  duty  to  comment  on  the  annual 
report  of  the  government's  actions  submitted  in  May,  and  the  For- 
eign Affairs  Committee's  review  of  the  frequent  Ministry  of  For- 
eign Affairs  reports  detailing  the  government's  conduct  in  the  field 
of  foreign  relations. 

President 

Supreme  executive  power  is  held  by  the  president,  assisted  by 
the  Council  of  State.  The  president  also  has  legislative  power 
exercised  in  conjunction  with  the  Eduskunta.  As  of  1988,  the  presi- 
dent is  to  be  elected  for  a  six-year  term  either  directly  by  the  Fin- 
nish people  or,  if  an  absolute  majority  is  not  reached,  by  a  college 
of  301  electors  selected  in  the  same  election.  Previously  the  presi- 
dent was  elected  indirectly  by  the  college  of  electors. 

As  of  1988,  there  was  no  limit  on  the  number  of  terms  a  presi- 
dent might  serve,  but  in  the  late  1980s  legislation  was  being  dis- 
cussed that  would  permit  no  one  to  serve  more  than  two  consecu- 
tive terms.  The  president's  only  formal  qualification  is  that  he  or 
she  be  a  native-born  citizen.  Once  elected,  the  president  must 
renounce  all  other  offices,  and,  with  the  aim  of  being  a  nonparti- 
san head  of  state,  must  cease  being  a  member  of  any  political  party. 
His  election,  separate  from  that  for  the  Eduskunta,  gives  him  a 
distinct  mandate  that  theoretically  elevates  him  above  routine 


229 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

politics.  Another  advantage  of  his  long  term  in  office  is  that  it  brings 
to  Finnish  political  life  a  continuity  that  it  has  often  lacked. 

The  president  is  not  politically  responsible  to  anyone.  He  can 
be  removed  from  office  only  if  the  Eduskunta  decides  by  a  three- 
quarters  majority  that  he  is  guilty  of  treason.  He  would  then  be 
tried  by  the  Supreme  Court  (see  Legal  System,  this  ch.).  The  risks 
that  such  freedom  from  political  responsibility  entails  are  lessened 
because  most  of  his  executive  decisions  can  be  carried  out  only  by 
means  of  the  Council  of  State,  and  his  legislative  powers  are  real- 
ized through  the  Eduskunta. 

The  president's  power  to  dissolve  parliament  and  to  call  for  new 
elections  gives  him,  in  theory,  considerable  influence  over  parlia- 
ment, but  ultimately  he  must  work  with  an  Eduskunta  elected  by 
the  people.  If  he  cannot  convince  a  majority  of  the  voters  or  the 
members  of  the  Eduskunta  to  support  his  policies,  he  cannot  act. 
An  indication  of  the  importance  of  this  central  element  in  Finnish 
parliamentary  practice  is  that  the  Eduskunta  has  been  dissolved 
only  once — in  1924 — against  its  will.  The  other  half  dozen  disso- 
lutions were  caused  by  the  inability  of  the  government  to  agree 
on  a  common  course  of  action. 

It  is  the  president  who  decides  what  legislative  proposals  are  sent 
to  the  Eduskunta,  although  in  practice  government  bills  are  drafted 
by  the  Council  of  State  and  are  sent  to  parliament  after  presiden- 
tial approval.  Failure  to  sign  them  within  three  months  of  their 
passage  amounts  to  a  suspensive  veto  on  the  part  of  the  president, 
a  veto  which  can  be  overridden  by  a  simple  majority  of  the 
Eduskunta  after  new  parliamentary  elections.  Both  the  presiden- 
tial veto  and  the  Eduskunta  override  have  been  rare  occurrences. 

Another  important  presidential  power  involves  the  formation  of 
new  governments.  The  president  has  the  formal  power  to  nominate 
ministers,  but  his  choices  are  bound  by  what  the  parties  seated  in 
the  Eduskunta  will  accept.  His  choices  must  correspond  to  the  cham- 
ber's political  composition.  Within  these  limits,  though,  the  presi- 
dent's force  of  character  and  political  will  influence  the  formation 
of  a  government.  The  president  also  has  the  right  to  dismiss 
ministers,  either  individual  ministers,  or,  if  he  wishes,  the  entire 
cabinet.  The  president  may  issue  decrees  about  details  of  public 
administration,  as  long  as  these  measures  are  not  contrary  to  laws 
passed  by  the  Eduskunta.  The  right  to  change  laws  is  a  parliamen- 
tary prerogative,  although  an  emergency  law  may  grant  the  presi- 
dent this  power  in  times  of  crisis,  as  was  done  in  World  War  II. 

The  president  nominates  all  senior  civil  servants,  high  judges, 
provincial  governors,  diplomats,  professors  at  the  University  of  Hel- 
sinki, high  churchmen,  and  the  chancellor  of  justice.  In  making 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


these  appointments,  however,  the  president  rarely  departs  from 
the  names  suggested  to  him  by  appropriate  authorities.  As  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces,  a  position  he  may  delegate 
during  wartime,  as  was  done  in  World  War  II,  the  president  also 
nominates  military  officers. 

The  president  has  the  power  to  grant  pardons  and  general 
amnesties,  but  the  latter  require  the  approval  of  the  Eduskunta. 
Individual  immunity  may  also  be  granted  by  the  president,  in 
accordance  with  certain  provisions  of  the  law.  Moreover,  the  grant- 
ing and  the  revocation  of  citizenship  require  the  signature  of  the 
head  of  state. 

The  Constitution  Act  gives  the  president  the  responsibility  for 
directing  foreign  affairs,  and  his  authority  in  this  area  has  grown 
markedly  since  World  War  II.  The  occasion  for  the  decisive  shift 
of  presidential  activity  from  principally  domestic  concerns  to  for- 
eign relations  was  the  threat  a  changing  world  order  posed  for  Fin- 
land's  survival;  the  crucial  roles,  played  by  President  Paasikivi  in 
formulating  a  new  foreign  policy  and  by  President  Kekkonen  in 
consolidating  it,  restructured  the  office  they  held.  Their  success 
increased  the  prestige  and  the  strength  of  the  presidency  beyond 
the  formal  powers  already  prescribed  by  the  Constitution  and 
enhanced  the  president's  role  as  head  of  state. 

By  the  late  1980s,  however,  a  long  period  of  stability  both  at 
home  and  abroad  made  the  security  and  the  direction  provided 
by  a  strong  and  authoritative  president  seem  less  essential  for  the 
country's  well-being,  and  there  was  serious  discussion  about  limiting 
his  power  of  intervention  in  the  political  process.  Legislation  was 
being  prepared  that  would  circumscribe  his  right  to  dissolve  the 
Eduskunta  and  his  role  in  the  formation  of  governments;  in  the 
latter  case,  he  would  be  required  to  take  greater  cognizance  of  the 
wishes  of  leading  politicians.  Other  reforms  likely  to  be  realized 
in  the  next  decade  included  curtailing  the  president's  right  to  dis- 
miss ministers,  abolishing  the  301 -member  college  of  electors,  and 
limiting  the  president  to  two  consecutive  terms  in  office.  Mauno 
Koivisto,  first  elected  president  in  1982  and  reelected  in  1988,  sup- 
ported reducing  the  tradition2d  powers  of  the  presidency  (see  The 
Presidential  Election  of  1982  and  Koivisto 's  Presidency,  this  ch.). 
Observers  held  that  these  reforms  would  augment  the  governing 
roles  of  the  prime  minister,  the  cabinet,  and  the  legislature  and 
that  they  would  mean  that  Finnish  political  practices  came  to  re- 
semble more  closely  those  of  other  West  European  parliamentary 
democracies. 


231 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Council  of  State 

The  Council  of  State  shares  executive  power  with  the  president, 
and  it  is  responsible  for  the  management  of  the  governmental 
machinery.  The  Council  of  State  prepares  the  government  bills 
presented  to  the  Eduskunta  and  authors  most  legislation.  In  the 
late  1980s,  it  consisted  of  the  prime  minister,  the  chancellor  of 
justice,  and  up  to  seventeen  ministers  who  directed  twelve  minis- 
tries: foreign  affairs,  justice,  interior,  defense,  finance,  education, 
agriculture  and  forestry,  communications,  trade  2ind  industry,  social 
affairs  and  health,  labor,  and  environment.  Some  of  the  ministries 
have  second  or  deputy  ministers,  cind  occasionally  a  minister  holds 
two  portfolios.  There  have  been  no  ministers  without  portfolio  since 
the  early  1950s.  Ministers  must  be  "native-born  Finnish  citizens 
known  for  their  honesty  and  ability."  The  minister  of  justice  and 
one  other  minister  must  be  lawyers,  but  otherwise  there  are  no  for- 
mal quailiflcations  for  a  cabinet  post.  Ministers  generally  enter  the 
cabinet  from  the  Eduskunta,  but  it  has  not  been  uncommon  for 
them  to  be  drawn  from  the  outside,  especigdly  to  serve  in  caretaker 
governments  composed  largely  of  leading  private  citizens  and  civil 
servants.  Even  prime  ministers  have  on  occasion  come  from  out- 
side parliament,  as  did  Mauno  Koivisto  in  1979.  Ministers  from 
the  Eduskunta  may  continue  to  be  members  of  that  body,  but  they 
may  not  serve  on  any  committee. 

The  prime  minister  heads  the  Council  of  State,  sets  its  agenda, 
nominates  some  members  of  the  council's  committees,  settles  tie 
votes,  and,  most  important,  dissolves  it  when  he  sees  fit  or  if  it  can 
no  longer  govern.  The  prime  minister  also  represents  the  presi- 
dent when  he  is  out  of  the  country.  If  the  president  can  no  longer 
carry  out  his  duties,  the  prime  minister  replaces  him  until  a  new 
presidential  election  can  be  held.  Other  than  these  rights  and  duties, 
a  prime  minister  in  the  1980s  had  few  formal  powers  and  had  only 
a  very  small  staff  to  assist  him  in  his  work.  His  main  responsibility 
was  holding  together  cabinets  composed  of  a  number  of  politiccil 
parties  that  frequently  had  opposing  views  on  central  issues.  He 
could  manage  this  through  personal  prestige  or  by  force  of  charac- 
ter, through  backstairs  wrangling,  or,  ultimately,  by  threatening  to 
dissolve  the  cabinet  if  it  did  not  adhere  to  the  government's 
program. 

A  key  member  of  the  Council  of  State,  although  he  is  not  a  minis- 
ter, is  the  chancellor  of  justice.  Appointed  for  life  by  the  president, 
he  is  obliged  to  attend  all  meetings  of  the  council  and  to  review 
its  proceedings  for  legsdity.  He  has  no  vote,  but  his  decisions  about 
the  legality  of  council  proposals  and  decisions  are  regarded  as 


232 


Government  and  Politics 


binding.  The  chancellor  of  justice  also  reviews  the  president's 
actions,  and  he  reports  infractions  to  the  Council  of  State,  or,  if 
necessary,  to  the  Eduskunta.  He  is  also  empowered  to  initiate 
proceedings  according  to  the  Responsibility  of  Ministers  Act.  One 
of  the  formal  qualifications  for  his  position  is  that  he  be  well  versed 
in  the  law;  and  within  the  country's  legal  system  he  is  the  highest 
prosecutor  (see  Legal  System,  this  ch.). 

The  Council  of  State  must  enjoy  the  confidence  of  the  Eduskunta 
in  order  to  govern.  The  party  composition  of  a  new  cabinet  has 
to  be  acceptable  to  the  Eduskunta,  and  it  must  correspond,  to  some 
degree,  to  the  relative  political  strength  of  the  parties  within  the 
chamber.  Formation  of  a  cabinet  has  often  been  difficult  because, 
in  addition  to  the  large  number  of  parties  that  participate  in  them, 
Finnish  elections  usually  give  no  clear  indication  of  how  politicsd 
realities  should  be  reflected  by  a  governing  coalition.  Even  the  selec- 
tion of  individual  ministers  can  be  troublesome,  because  the  par- 
ties themselves  have  much  to  say  about  who  serves  as  minister, 
and  even  a  prime  minister  may  have  to  accept  members  of  his  own 
party  not  of  his  choosing.  If  a  suitable  constellation  of  parties  can- 
not be  formed  to  yield  an  effective  majority  government,  a  minority 
government,  or  even  a  caretaker  government,  may  be  put  together 
if  the  Eduskunta  agrees. 

The  Council  of  State  is  held  legally  responsible  for  the  acts  of 
its  ministers,  in  accordance  with  the  Responsibility  of  Minis cers 
Act  of  1922.  In  addition  to  making  ministers  accountable  for  their 
official  actions,  this  law — which  has  constitutional  status — is  also 
a  vital,  if  indirect,  means  of  controlling  the  president's  actions. 
Because  many  of  his  decisions  can  be  carried  out  only  through  the 
Council  of  State,  ministers  who  approve  an  illegal  presidential  action 
are  liable  under  the  terms  of  this  law.  Ministers  wishing  to  avoid 
the  law's  sanctions  must  refuse  to  be  party  to  a  presidential  deci- 
sion that  they  view  as  illegal.  If  ministerial  consent  is  lacking,  the 
president  cannot  act.  In  such  a  case,  the  president  must  either  abide 
by  the  decision  of  the  council  or  dismiss  it  and  attempt  to  form 
a  new  one  amenable  to  his  wishes.  If  this  is  not  possible,  he  may 
dissolve  the  Eduskunta  and  call  for  new  elections  with  the  hope 
of  having  the  voters  endorse  his  decisions  by  returning  an  Eduskunta 
from  which  a  compliant  government  can  be  formed.  If  the  council 
refuses  to  approve  a  lawful  presidential  decision,  it  is  obliged  to 
resign.  Ministers  can  always  resign  individually,  but  the  resigna- 
tion of  the  prime  minister  means  the  end  of  a  government. 

A  principal  task  of  the  Council  of  State  is  the  preparation  of  legis- 
lative proposals,  or  government  bills,  that  the  president  presents 


233 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  Eduskunta  for  ratification.  Most  of  this  work  is  done  in  an 
appropriate  ministry,  where,  in  addition  to  ministry  personnel  and 
civil  servants,  permanent  and  ad  hoc  commissions  of  experts  and 
spokesmen  for  special  interests  can  be  consulted. 

In  the  1980s,  the  Council  of  State  had  three  committees  to  han- 
dle important  questions:  the  ministerial  committees  for  finance, 
economic  policy,  and  foreign  affairs.  The  Finance  Committee, 
meeting  on  Wednesdays,  consisted  of  the  prime  minister,  finance 
minister,  and  several  other  ministers.  It  prepared  the  government's 
budget  and  responded  to  the  financial  motions  presented  by  in- 
dividual members  of  the  Eduskunta.  The  Economic  Policy  Com- 
mittee met  twice  a  week  to  discuss  issues  touching  the  country's 
economic  life  as  a  whole,  broader  questions  about  the  government's 
budget,  and  other  financial  concerns  suggested  by  the  prime 
minister.  The  Foreign  Affairs  Committee,  least  important  of  the 
three,  met  when  needed  to  discuss  issues  concerning  foreign  policy. 

Plenary  meetings  of  the  Council  of  State,  for  which  a  quorum 
of  five  was  required,  had  three  forms.  The  so-called  Evening  School 
meeting,  on  Wednesday  evenings,  was  a  closed,  informal  session 
where  ministers,  top  civil  servants,  politicians,  and  leading  figures 
from  outside  government  freely  discussed  decisions  to  be  taken. 
It  was  thus  a  forum  where  the  country's  leaders  met  and  exchanged 
opinions  on  important  issues.  Instituted  in  the  late  1930s  as  a  means 
of  speeding  the  council's  work,  the  Evening  School  had  no  formal 
decision-making  power.  Votes  were  taken  at  the  Thursday  meet- 
ing. The  Council  of  State  worked  as  a  collegial  body,  and  unani- 
mous votes  were  not  required.  In  case  of  a  tie  vote,  the  vote  of 
the  prime  minister  was  decisive.  Approved  measures  were  presented 
to  the  president  for  signing  at  the  Friday  Presidential  Meeting. 

In  accordance  with  its  executive  powers,  the  Council  of  State 
implemented  its  decisions  and  directed  the  ministries  and  the  lower 
levels  of  the  state  administrative  apparatus.  This  was  done  through 
presidential  decrees  and  its  own  ordinances,  neither  of  which  could 
conflict  with  legislation  passed  by  the  Eduskunta.  Ministers,  aided 
by  political  secretaries  drawn  from  their  own  parties,  headed  the 
country's  twelve  ministries.  The  ministries,  which  both  formulated 
and  administered  policy,  oversaw  about  eighty  central  boards  that 
were  wholly  occupied  with  implementing  policy.  The  central  board 
system,  inherited  from  the  time  of  Swedish  rule,  had  grown  con- 
siderably, expanding  by  about  one-third  between  1966  and  1975 
because  of  the  increase  in  state  social  services.  The  boards,  such 
as  the  National  Board  of  General  Education  and  the  State  Pub- 
lishing Office,  did  much  of  the  state's  work.  By  tradition  some- 
what autonomous,  they  decided  how  legislation  and  ministerial 
decisions  were  to  be  carried  out. 


234 


Helsinki's  neo-classical  quarter  includes  the  Government  Palace,  seen  in  the 
foreground.  This  building  was  constructed  as  the  Senate  House  and 
was  the  seat  of  government  during  most  of  the  tsarist  period.  After 
independence,  it  became  the  seat  of  the  Council  of  State. 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

Legal  System 

The  leg2il  system  originated  during  the  period  of  Swedish  rule, 
and  portions  of  the  Swedish  General  Code  of  1734  were  extant  in 
Finnish  law  even  in  the  late  1980s.  The  country's  first  court  of 
appeals  was  established  at  Turku  in  1634.  The  modern  division 
of  the  Finnish  courts  into  two  main  branches — general  courts,  deal- 
ing with  civil  suits  and  criminal  cases,  and  administrative  courts, 
regulating  the  actions  of  the  country's  bureaucracy — also  dates  from 
this  time.  This  division  was  formalized  in  1918  when  two  sections 
of  the  Senate,  the  body  that  had  governed  Finland  during  the  period 
of  Russian  rule,  became  the  newly  independent  country's  two 
highest  courts.  The  Senate  Department  of  Justice  became  the 
Supreme  Court,  and  part  of  the  Senate  Finance  Department  was 
the  basis  of  the  Supreme  Administrative  Court.  The  two  court  sys- 
tems are  entirely  separate,  and  they  have  no  jurisdiction  over  one 
another.  The  establishment  of  the  two  courts  was  confirmed  by 
the  Constitution  Act  of  1919.  Overseeing  the  system  of  justice  are 
the  chancellor  of  justice — the  country's  highest  guardicin  of  the  law 
and  its  chief  prosecutor — and  the  parliamentary  ombudsman. 


235 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Although  these  two  officials  have  largely  parallel  functions  and  each 
is  required  to  submit  an  annual  report  of  his  activities  to  parlia- 
ment, the  former  is  appointed  for  life  by  the  president  and  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Council  of  State,  whereas  the  latter  is  chosen  for  a 
four-year  term  by  the  Eduskunta.  Both  officials  receive  complaints 
from  citizens  about  the  conduct  of  civil  servants,  and  on  their  own 
may  investigate  all  public  officials  and  may  order  prosecutors  to 
proceed  against  them.  The  chancellor  of  justice  supervises  public 
prosecutors,  and  he  also  has  the  unrestricted  right  to  investigate 
private  persons.  Both  officials  may  call  on  either  of  the  high  courts 
for  assistance. 

The  High  Court  of  Impeachment  may  be  convened  for  cases 
dealing  with  illegzd  official  acts  by  cabinet  ministers,  judges  of  the 
two  supreme  courts,  or  the  chancellor  of  justice.  Members  of  this 
court,  used  only  three  times  since  its  formation  in  1922,  are  the 
chief  judges  of  the  two  supreme  courts  and  the  six  courts  of  appeal, 
a  professor  of  law  from  the  University  of  Helsinki,  and  six  represen- 
tatives from  the  Eduskunta. 

As  in  the  other  countries  of  Nordic  Europe,  there  is  no  constitu- 
tional court.  Issues  dealt  with  by  a  court  of  this  kind  elsewhere  are 
handled  by  the  Eduskunta' s  Constitutioncd  Committee  (see  Legis- 
lature, this  ch.). 

According  to  Article  5  of  the  Constitution  Act,  all  Finns  are  equal 
before  the  law,  and  Article  13  of  the  same  act  stipulates  that  they 
may  be  tried  only  in  a  court  of  their  own  jurisdiction.  No  tem- 
porary courts  are  permitted.  Legislation  passed  in  1973  provides 
for  free  legal  assistance  to  those  in  need  as  well  as  for  free  court 
proceedings  in  a  number  of  courts.  Trials  in  lower  courts  are  usually 
open  to  the  public.  Records  of  trials  in  higher  courts  are  made 
public. 

Judges  are  appointed  for  life,  with  retirement  set  at  age  seventy, 
and  they  may  be  removed  only  for  serious  cause.  With  the  excep- 
tion of  some  lay  judges  in  circuit  courts  and  in  some  town  courts, 
all  judges  hold  legal  degrees  from  one  of  the  country's  three  law 
schools.  The  judiciary  in  the  late  1980s  was  a  rather  closed  profes- 
sion, and  only  judges  for  administrative  courts  were  occasionally 
selected  from  outside  its  ranks. 

Defendants  have  no  obligation  to  employ  an  attorney  for  their 
defense  in  a  Finnish  court,  and  may  represent  themselves  or  be 
represented  by  another  layman  rather  than  by  a  lawyer.  Neverthe- 
less, in  most  cases  heard  in  general  courts  and  in  many  argued 
in  administrative  courts,  trained  legcil  specialists  are  employed. 

The  general  court  system  handles  criminal  cases  and  civil  suits 
and  has  three  levels:  lower  courts,  courts  of  appeal,  and  the 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


Supreme  Court.  There  are  two  kinds  of  lower  courts:  town  courts, 
numbering  30  in  the  entire  country;  and  circuit  courts,  totaUng 
147  in  71  judicial  districts.  Town  courts  consist  of  three  judges, 
2dl  trained  professionals  except  in  some  small  towns.  One  of  these 
judges  is  the  chief  judge  chosen  by  the  Supreme  Court;  the  others 
are  selected  by  local  authorities.  Decisions  are  made  on  a  collegicd 
basis.  Circuit  courts  consist  of  a  judge,  chosen  by  the  Supreme 
Court,  and  five  to  seven  lay  judges,  i.e.,  persons  without  legal  train- 
ing, chosen  by  local  authorities  for  a  term  of  four  years.  Decisions 
on  cases  in  courts  of  this  type  are  made  by  the  professional  judge, 
unless  he  is  overruled  by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  lay  members 
of  the  court.  Larger  cities  also  have  housing  courts  that  deal  with 
rent  and  accommodations. 

Appeals  from  lower  courts  are  addressed  to  the  six  courts  of  ap- 
peal located  at  Helsinki,  Turku,  Vaasa,  Kouvola,  Kuopio,  and 
Rovaniemi.  Most  cases  at  these  courts  are  heard  by  professional 
three-judge  panels;  more  important  cases  are  tried  before  a  ple- 
nary session  of  judges  if  the  chief  judge  so  decides.  In  cases  involving 
senior  government  officials,  a  court  of  appeals  may  serve  as  the 
court  of  first  instance.  Judges  of  the  courts  of  appe2d  are  appointed 
by  the  Supreme  Court. 

The  Supreme  Court,  located  in  Helsinki,  consists  of  a  chief 
justice,  or  a  president,  and  twenty-one  judges  usually  working  in 
five-judge  panels.  It  hears  cases  involving  appeals  of  decisions  of 
appellate  courts  where  serious  errors  are  alleged  to  have  occurred, 
or  where  important  precedents  might  be  involved.  A  sentence  from 
a  court  of  appeals  may  go  into  effect  immediately,  despite  an  appeal 
to  the  Supreme  Court,  but  it  may  be  postponed  while  the  case  is 
pending  if  the  Supreme  Court  so  decides.  The  chief  justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  is  appointed  by  the  nation's  president,  and  the  other 
judges  of  that  court  are  appointed  by  the  president  on  the  recom- 
mendation of  the  Supreme  Court. 

The  administrative  courts  system  consists  of  twelve  county  courts, 
one  in  each  of  the  country's  twelve  provinces,  and  the  Supreme 
Administrative  Court,  located  in  Helsinki.  All  judges  in  adminis- 
trative courts  are  professionals,  appointed  in  the  same  manner  as 
judges  who  sit  in  general  courts.  Judges  work  in  three-judge  panels 
at  the  provincial  level  and  in  five-judge  panels  in  the  Supreme 
Administrative  Court.  When  appropriate,  the  latter  meets  in  ple- 
nary sessions  to  hear  especisdly  important  cases. 

Administrative  courts  deal  with  appeals  against  administrative 
decisions  by  government  agencies,  adthough  in  some  cases  appeals 
are  directed  to  higher  administrative  levels  within  the  government. 
About  80  percent  of  the  cases  of  the  county  courts  involve  appecds 


237 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

of  government  tax  decisions;  the  remainder  deal  with  questions 
relating  to  construction,  welfare,  planning,  and  local  government. 
The  Supreme  Administrative  Court  handles  appeals  of  county  court 
and  central  government  board  decisions  that  affect,  or  are  affected 
by,  administrative  law.  About  50  percent  of  the  cases  heard  in  the 
Supreme  Administrative  Court  involve  questions  about  taxes. 

Finland  also  has  special  courts  to  handle  civil  cases;  some  of  these 
courts  render  judgments  from  which  there  is  no  appeal.  The  four 
land  courts  settle  disputes  about  the  division  of  land,  and  their 
decisions  may  be  appealed  to  the  Supreme  Court.  Appeals  from 
the  insurance  court,  which  handles  social  insurance  cases,  also  may 
be  appealed  to  the  Supreme  Court.  Cases  that  involve  water  use 
are  dealt  with  in  the  three  water  courts,  and  may  be  appealed  first 
to  the  water  court  of  appeals  and  from  there  to  the  Supreme  Court. 
If  the  case  involves  water  permits,  appeals  go  to  the  Supreme 
Administrative  Court.  Decisions  of  the  labor  court  and  the  mar- 
keting court  may  not  be  appealed.  The  former  treats  disputes  about 
collective  bargaining  agreements  in  either  the  public  or  the 
private  sector.  Its  president  and  vice  president  are  lawyers;  its 
remaining  members  come  from  groups  representing  labor  and 
management.  The  marketing  court  regulates  disagreements  about 
consumer  protection  and  unfair  competition. 

Civil  Service 

Article  84  of  the  Constitution  Act  stipulates  that  only  Finnish 
citizens  may  be  appointed  to  the  civil  service,  although  exceptions 
may  be  made  for  some  technical  and  teaching  positions.  Article 
85  states  that  educational  requirements  for  the  civil  service  wiU  be 
set  by  law  or  statute,  and  that  only  on  special  grounds  may  the 
Council  of  State  make  an  exception  to  the  set  requirements. 
Exceptions  of  this  type  seldom  occur.  No  exceptions  may  be  made 
for  appointment  to  a  judicial  post.  According  to  Article  86,  suc- 
cessful applicants  for  civil  service  posts  will  be  promoted  on  the 
basis  of  "skill,  ability  and  proved  civic  virtue."  State  employees 
cdso  often  must  have  an  appropriate  mastery  of  the  country's  two 
official  languages. 

There  is  no  general  recruitment  in  Finland  for  civil  service  posts, 
nor  does  the  country  have  a  preferred  school  for  training  civil  ser- 
vants. The  recruitment  is  done  on  an  individual  basis  for  a  vacant 
or  a  newly  created  post. 

Civil  servants  enjoy  a  fairly  secure  tenure  in  their  posts,  but  they 
may  be  dismissed  for  poor  performance  or  for  disreputable  behavior 
on  or  off  the  job.  About  90  percent  of  civil  servants  were  unionized 
in  the  late  1980s.  Since  the  passage  of  the  Act  on  Civil  Service 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


Collective  Agreements  in  1970,  civil  servants  have  had  the  right 
to  strike.  If  a  strike  of  a  category  of  civil  servants  threatens  socie- 
ty's welfare,  the  dispute  may  be  reviewed,  but  not  settled  in  a  bind- 
ing way,  by  a  special  board.  If  required,  the  Eduskunta  may  settle 
the  disagreement  through  legislation. 

By  the  early  1980s,  there  were  about  125,000  civil  servants 
employed  in  the  nationad  government,  which  made  it  the  coun- 
try's largest  employer.  More  than  twice  this  number  worked  for 
local  government  and  for  related  institutions.  Government  employ- 
ment grew  rapidly  during  the  1960s  and  the  1970s,  and  was 
accompanied  by  a  marked  increase  in  the  politicization  of  the  civil 
service,  especially  at  higher  levels.  Even  at  lower  levels,  posts  were 
often  filled  on  the  basis  of  party  affiliation.  Sometimes  appoint- 
ments were  arranged  by  "package  deals,"  through  which  the  par- 
ties secured  for  their  members  a  suitable  portion  of  available  posts. 
Care  was  taken,  however,  that  appointees  meet  the  stated  require- 
ments for  state  posts,  and  political  parties  even  arranged  for  train- 
ing so  that  their  candidates  would  be  qualified  applicants  for  given 
posts. 

Politicization  of  public  jobs  resulted  pardy  from  the  desire  that 
the  civil  service,  traditionally  conservative,  reflect  the  new  politi- 
cal domin2ince  of  the  center-left  governments  formed  after  1966. 
President  Kekkonen  also  used  the  spoils  system  to  cement  the  broad 
coalition  governments  he  introduced  in  the  second  half  of  the  1 960s 
(see  Finland  in  the  Era  of  Consensus,  1966-81,  ch.  1).  A  study 
from  the  early  1980s  found  that  by  1980  the  number  of  senior  civil 
service  posts  occupied  by  nominees  of  the  Center  Party  (Kes- 
kustapuolue — Kesk)  2md  the  Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party  (Suo- 
men  Sosialidemokraattinen  Puolue — SDP)  had  doubled  for  the 
former  and  tripled  for  the  latter  in  just  fifteen  years,  mostly  at  the 
expense  of  officials  linked  to  the  National  Coalition  Party  (Kan- 
sallinen  Kokoomuspuolue — KOK). 

Widespread  criticism  of  the  politicization  of  the  civil  service  and 
complaints  that  the  practice  was  harmful  to  efficiency  and  to 
democratic  values  led  to  recommendations  for  stricter  control  of 
hiring  and  even  for  the  prohibition  of  all  political  appointments. 
By  the  late  1980s,  no  such  ban  had  been  instituted,  but  in  general 
a  decline  in  partisan  nomination  for  civil  service  posts  seemed  to 
have  occurred  since  the  election  of  President  Koivisto  in  1982. 
Appointments  in  provincial  governments,  however,  continued  to 
be  booty  for  politicians.  Despite  these  partisan  practices,  the  civil 
service  had  a  reputation  for  competence,  and  it  enjoyed  the  sup- 
port of  most  Finns. 


239 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Provincial  Administration 

Finland  is  divided  into  twelve  provinces:  Lappi,  Oulu,  Kuopio, 
Pohjois-Karjala,  Keski-Suomi,  Vaasa,  Mikkeli,  Hame,  Turku  ja 
Pori,  Kymi,  Uusimaa,  and  the  Aland  Islands.  A  governor  appointed 
by  the  president  heads  a  provincial  government  made  up  of  public 
officials.  At  this  level  of  administration,  regarded  in  Finland  as  an 
unimportant  intermediate  stage  between  national  and  locad  govern- 
ment, there  are  no  elective  offices.  The  country's  provincial  govern- 
ment is  less  extensive  than  that  of  many  other  countries  because 
local  government  manages  many  tasks  done  elsewhere  on  the 
provincial  level. 

The  responsibilities  of  provinci2J  administration  include  police 
work,  civil  defense,  regional  planning,  price  and  rent  control,  direc- 
tion of  social  and  health  services,  oversight  of  local  governments' 
adherence  to  environmental  and  other  state  regulations,  and 
collection  of  taxes,  fees,  and  revenues  owed  to  local  and  to  nation- 
al government.  The  provincial  government  is  aJso  involved  in  the 
functioning  of  the  county  administrative  courts,  and,  with  authority 
granted  to  it  by  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  supervises  elections. 

Local  Administration 

Finland's  tradition  of  local  self-government,  which  predates  the 
arrival  of  Christicinity  in  the  country,  was  placed  on  a  more  modem 
footing  in  the  nineteenth  century  when  local  functions  were  taken 
from  the  church,  and  communities  became  responsible  for  educa- 
tion and  health  matters.  Universal  suffrage  was  introduced  in  lo- 
cal government  in  1917,  and  the  Constitution  Act  of  1919  states 
in  Article  51  that  ''the  administration  of  the  municipalities  shall 
be  based  on  the  principle  of  self-government  by  the  citizens,  as 
provided  in  specific  laws."  How  local  self-government  is  practiced 
in  the  country's  urban  and  rural  municipalities  (numbering  94  and 
367,  respectively,  in  1988)  is  specified  by  the  Local  Government 
Act  of  1976. 

The  governing  body  in  a  municipality  is  the  municipal  council, 
the  members  of  which,  rcinging  in  number  from  seventeen  to  eighty- 
five,  are  elected  by  universaJ  suffrage  for  four-year  terms.  Elec- 
tions are  held  in  October,  and  the  proportiongd  representation  list 
system  is  used.  Any  Finnish  citizen  legally  resident  in  the  munici- 
pality and  at  least  eighteen  years  old  by  the  year  in  which  the  elec- 
tion is  held  can  vote.  Since  1976,  citizens  of  Sweden,  Norway, 
Denmark,  and  Iceland  who  have  been  legal  residents  of  Finland 
for  at  least  two  years  may  also  vote.  Voter  turnout  has  generally 
been  somewhat  lower  than  in  national  elections.  In  the  1988  local 


240 


Council  of  State  Chamber,  Government  Palace 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

elections,  for  example,  only  70  percent  of  those  eligible — about  five 
to  ten  percent  less  than  in  national  elections — voted. 

Finnish  citizens  have  an  obligation  to  serve  in  elective  local 
government  posts,  which  has  meant  that  most  elected  officials  are 
laymen.  The  1976  law  provides  for  financial  compensation  and  pen- 
sion rights  for  those  citizens  elected  to  local  positions. 

Candidates  traditionally  have  campaigned  for  office  through 
national  party  organizations,  and  local  election  results  are  regarded 
as  an  indication  of  the  national  parties'  popularity.  Local  electoral 
results  mirror  those  of  national  elections  with  regard  to  party 
dominance  in  particular  regions.  Members  of  the  Eduskunta  often 
have  begun  their  careers  on  the  local  level,  and  they  have  been 
allowed  to  hold  both  local  and  national  elective  offices  at  the  same 
time.  Continued  participation  in  politics  at  the  grass-roots  level 
has  given  Helsinki  politicians  close  contact  with  their  constituents. 

The  responsibilities  of  municipal  government  include  manag- 
ing the  budget  and  financial  affairs,  approving  plans  submitted  to 
it,  delegating  authority  to  committees,  and  making  decisions  on 
important  issues.  They  also  direct  school,  health,  and  social  wel- 
fare systems;  see  to  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  local  roads; 
provide  for  the  management  of  waste  and  water;  and  supply  energy. 
Many  decisions  relating  to  financial  or  budgetary  questions  require 
two-thirds  majorities  in  council  votes.  This  means  that  there  is 


241 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

much  discussion  behind  the  scenes  before  votes  are  taken  and  that 
there  exists  the  same  consensus  poUtics  at  this  level  as  is  practiced 
on  the  national  level.  Because  municipal  governments  have  no  legis- 
lative or  judicial  powers,  decisions  are  carried  out  by  means  of 
ordinances. 

Much  of  the  routine  work  of  governing  is  managed  by  the 
municipal  board,  which  consists  of  at  least  seven  people,  one  of 
whom  is  the  chairman.  Board  members,  who  serve  for  two-year 
terms,  come  from  the  council,  and  they  are  chosen  to  reflect  its 
party  composition.  The  board  prepares  matters  to  be  discussed  by 
the  council,  and,  if  measures  are  approved,  implements  them.  Aid- 
ing the  board  are  a  number  of  committees,  some  obligatory. 

A  staff  of  trained  municipal  employees  assists  the  council,  the 
board,  and  the  committees.  To  meet  their  overall  responsibilities, 
municipal  governments  employed  a  large  number  of  persons,  about 
17  percent  of  the  country's  total  work  force  in  the  1980s.  For  duties 
too  broad  in  scope  for  a  single  municipality,  the  managing  of  a 
large  hospital  for  example,  communities  join  together  to  form  con- 
federations of  minicipalities  or  joint  authorities.  By  the  1980s,  there 
were  about  400  of  these  bodies.  Local  authorities  are  also  obliged 
by  the  Local  Government  Act  of  1976  to  formulate,  publish,  and 
frequently  revise  a  five-year  plan  covering  administration,  finan- 
cial affairs,  economic  growth,  and  land  use.  Expert  assistance  from 
national  government  bodies,  such  as  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  helps 
local  bodies  to  fulfill  this  obligation. 

The  responsibilities  of  local  government  have  grown  in  recent 
decades,  and  in  the  1980s  about  two-thirds  of  public  sector  spend- 
ing was  in  the  hands  of  local  authorities.  Local  involvement  in  plan- 
ning also  meant  that  10  percent  of  the  investment  in  the  nation's 
economy  came  from  municipal  coffers.  In  order  to  meet  their 
responsibilities,  local  governments  have  the  right  to  tax,  including 
the  right  to  establish  local  tax  rates,  a  power  needed  for  their 
independence,  but  one  that  supplies  them  with  only  40  percent  of 
the  monies  they  expend.  The  remainder  is  furnished  by  the  national 
government  (a  little  over  20  percent)  or  is  derived  from  various 
fees  and  charges. 

Finnish  local  self-government  is  subject  to  a  variety  of  controls. 
The  national  government  decides  the  municipalities'  duties  and 
areas  of  responsibility,  and  once  they  are  established,  only  a  law 
passed  by  the  Eduskunta  may  alter  them.  The  municipalities  are 
obliged  to  submit  many  of  their  decisions  to  a  regional  body  or 
to  a  national  government  agency  for  approval.  This  control, 
however,  is  often  rather  loose,  and  only  when  a  local  government 
has  broken  a  law  does  the  provincial  or  the  national  government 


242 


Government  and  Politics 


intervene.  Except  for  minor  changes,  proposals  to  higher  levels  of 
government  are  not  amended  by  them,  but  rather  are  returned  to 
local  authorities,  who  themselves  modify  measures  or  decisions  to 
meet  prescribed  standards. 

Meetings  of  municipal  councils  are  generally  open  to  the  pub- 
lic, and  though  board  and  committee  meetings  are  closed,  records 
of  their  proceedings  are  subsequently  published.  Local  governments 
or  communes  are  also  obliged  to  publicize  their  activities. 
Individuals  who  believe  they  have  been  wronged  by  a  municipal 
policy  may  appeal  to  the  courts  or  to  officials  at  the  provincial  or 
nation2il  level. 

Electoral  System 

Universcd  suffrage  for  national  elections  was  introduced  to  Fin- 
land in  1906,  and  it  was  extended  to  local  elections  in  1917.  With 
the  exception  of  some  minor  reforms,  the  original  proportional 
representation  system  remains  unchanged.  This  system  enjoys  full 
public  support,  for  although  it  favors  larger  parties  slightly,  propor- 
tional representation  allows  political  participation  of  small,  and  even 
marginal,  groups  as  well. 

All  Finns  over  the  age  of  eighteen  by  the  year  of  an  election  are 
eligible  to  vote.  Voting  is  not  compulsory,  and,  in  the  1980s,  par- 
ticipation averaged  around  80  percent,  slightly  below  the  average 
rate  of  the  Nordic  countries. 

In  the  1980s,  the  country  was  divided  for  national  elections  into 
fifteen  electoral  constituencies,  fourteen  of  which  sent  between  seven 
and  twenty-seven  representatives  to  the  Eduskunta,  according  to 
their  population.  The  constituency  for  the  Aland  Islands  sent 
one.  Constituencies  corresponded  to  provinces  except  that  Hame 
Province  and  Turku  j a  Pori  Province  were  each  divided  into  two, 
and  Helsinki  formed  one  electoral  district  itself.  The  five  southern- 
most constituencies  supplied  nearly  half  of  the  Eduskunta' s 
delegates.  In  the  early  1980s,  one  delegate  represented  about  24,000 
Finns. 

Candidates  for  the  Eduskunta  are  ailmost  invariably  nominated 
by  a  political  party,  although  a  1975  amendment  to  the  election 
law  allows  the  candidacy  of  a  person  sponsored  by  a  minimum  of 
100  Finns  united  in  an  electoral  association.  Party  lists  for  a  con- 
stituency contain  at  least  fourteen  names — and  more  for  those  con- 
stituencies with  high  populations.  Since  1978  a  secret  primary 
among  party  members  has  been  required  if  a  party  has  more  can- 
didates than  places  on  its  party  list.  Parties  may  form  electoral 
alliances  with  other  parties  to  present  their  candidates,  and  they 


243 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

often  do  so  because  of  lack  of  resources.  This  practice  partly  explains 
the  high  number  of  small  parties  successfully  active  in  Finnish 
politics. 

Since  the  introduction  of  proportional  representation  in  1906, 
Finland  has  used  the  d'Hondt  constituency  list  system  with  only 
slight  modifications.  Under  this  system,  elections  are  based  on 
proportionality  rather  than  on  plurality,  and  seats  are  allotted  to 
parties  commensurately  with  the  number  of  votes  polled.  Votes 
go  to  individual  candidates,  however,  and  voters  indicate  their 
preferred  politician  by  circling  the  number  assigned  to  him  or  to 
her  on  their  ballots. 

The  Finnish  system  is  distributive  in  several  ways.  There  is  no 
electoral  threshold,  such  as  the  Swedish  requirement  that  a  party 
receive  at  least  4  percent  of  the  votes  in  order  to  sit  in  parliament. 
In  Finland  it  was  feared  that  a  threshold  requirement  might  deprive 
the  Swedish- speaking  minority  of  seats  in  the  Eduskunta.  The  Fin- 
nish system  also  favors  parties  with  a  pronounced  support  in  cer- 
tain areas,  rather  than  those  with  a  thin  nationwide  presence.  Parties 
are  not  obliged  to  contest  Eduskunta  elections  in  every  constituency. 
The  practice  of  voting  for  an  individual  candidate  rather  than  for 
a  party  means  that  voters  can  register  their  dissatisfaction  with  a 
party's  policy  or  leadership  by  voting  for  one  of  its  junior  candi- 
dates. This  characteristic  of  the  Finnish  system  means  that  no  can- 
didate, no  matter  how  senior  or  renowned,  is  assured  election. 

Elections  for  the  200-seat  Eduskunta  are  held  every  four  years 
in  March,  except  when  the  president  has  dissolved  the  body  and 
has  called  for  an  early  election.  Municipal  elections  t2ike  place  every 
four  years  in  October. 

The  presidential  election  occurs  every  six  years  in  the  month  of 
January.  Beginning  with  the  1988  election,  it  is  to  be  carried  out 
on  the  basis  of  direct  universal  suffrage.  If  none  of  the  candidates 
receives  more  than  half  of  the  votes,  301  electors,  chosen  in  the 
same  election,  choose  the  next  head  of  state.  Although  pledged  in 
the  campaign  to  particular  presidential  candidates,  members  of  the 
electoral  college  have  the  right  to  vote  in  the  body's  secret  ballots 
for  any  candidate  who  has  won  at  least  one  elector.  If  no  candi- 
date secures  a  majority  of  the  college  in  the  first  two  ballots,  one 
of  the  two  candidates  who  has  received  the  most  support  on  the 
second  baUot  will  be  elected  president  in  the  third  and  final  vote. 
By  the  late  1980s,  there  was  serious  discussion  of  doing  away  with 
the  electoral  college  completely  and  making  the  president's  elec- 
tion dependent  on  a  direct  vote  with  no  majority  required. 


244 


Government  and  Politics 

Aland  Islands 

The  province  of  the  Aland  Islands  enjoys  considerable  autono- 
my by  virtue  of  the  Autonomy  Act  of  1951  that  guarantees  the  way 
of  life  and  the  preservation  of  Swedish  traditions  on  the  islands. 
The  1951  law  was  supplemented  by  a  1975  law  that  restricts  the 
acquisition  of  real  estate  on  the  islands.  Both  laws  have  constitu- 
tional status,  and  they  may  be  altered  only  in  accordance  with  the 
strict  parliamentary  provisions  that  protect  the  Constitution. 

In  addition  to  this  protection  against  legislation  prejudicial  to 
its  interests,  the  archipelago's  provincial  assembly,  the  Landsting, 
has  the  right  to  ratify  laws  affecting  it.  The  Landsting  consists  of 
thirty  members  elected  on  the  basis  of  proportional  representation 
for  four-year  terms.  Voters  must  be  eighteen  years  of  age  by  the 
year  of  the  election  and  must  have  the  right  of  domicile  on  the  is- 
lands, a  right  acquired  by  living  for  at  least  five  years  in  the 
province.  Those  with  this  right  may  also  exercise  certain  profes- 
sions and  may  acquire  real  estate,  and  they  may  not  be  conscript- 
ed if  they  have  been  residents  of  the  islands  since  before  their  twelfth 
year.  This  last  provision  resulted  from  the  demilitarized  and  neu- 
trzil  status  of  the  islands  established  by  a  decision  of  the  League 
of  Nations  in  1921  (see  Finnish  Security  Policy  Between  the  Wars, 
ch.  1). 

The  Landsting  has  the  right  to  pass  laws  that  touch  on  adminis- 
tration, provincial  taxation,  police  matters,  transportation,  health 
care,  and  cultural  matters.  Issues  relating  to  the  Constitution,  na- 
tional defense,  foreign  affairs,  the  judiciary,  family  law,  and  civil 
law  are  outside  its  competence.  All  laws  passed  by  the  Landsting 
must  be  approved  by  the  president  of  the  republic,  who  may  veto 
those  laws  judged  to  exceed  the  Landsting' s  competence  or  to 
damage  the  country's  internal  or  externad  security. 

The  highest  executive  authority  in  the  province  is  the  Provin- 
cial Executive  Council,  consisting  of  seven  members  elected  by, 
and  from  within,  the  Landsting.  The  council  must  enjoy  the  con- 
fidence of  the  Landsting  to  carry  out  its  duties,  and  the  president 
of  the  council  can  be  forced  to  resign  if  this  is  not  the  case. 

The  governor  of  the  province  represents  the  national  govern- 
ment. He  is  appointed  by  the  president  of  the  republic,  but  only 
after  the  approval  of  the  Landsting,  and  is  responsible  for  those 
administrative  functions  beyond  the  competence  of  provincial 
authorities.  Another  link  between  the  islands  and  the  national 
government  is  the  Aland  Delegation,  usually  headed  by  the  provin- 
cial governor;  its  other  four  members  are  chosen  by  the  Council 
of  State  and  the  Landsting.  The  delegation's  chief  duties  are 


245 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


supervising  transfers  of  funds  from  the  national  government  to  the 
provincial  government,  to  pay  for  the  costs  of  self-government,  and 
examining  laws  passed  by  the  Landsting,  before  sending  them  to 
the  president.  In  addition  to  these  ties  between  the  archipelago  aind 
the  mainland,  the  province  has  one  representative  in  the  Eduskunta 
who  usually  has  a  seat  on  the  Constitutional  Committee  in  order 
to  protect  the  islands'  rights.  Since  1970  the  province  has  had  one 
delegate  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Nordic  Council. 

During  the  late  1980s,  changes  of  a  constitutional  nature  in  the 
relations  between  the  Aland  Islands  and  the  national  government 
were  under  review  in  the  Eduskunta.  The  projected  legislation 
touched  on  increased  provincial  control  of  the  tcixes  the  archipelago 
pays  or  generates  and  on  greater  control  over  radio  and  television 
reception,  with  the  aim  of  increasing  access  to  programming  from 
Sweden  and  to  the  Swedish-language  programs  of  the  Finnish 
broadcasting  system.  Having  secured  the  right  to  issue  their  own 
stamps  in  1984,  the  archipelago's  inhabitants  also  wanted  to  have 
their  own  postal  system,  a  right  still  reserved  to  the  national  govern- 
ment. Under  discussion,  too,  were  international  guarantees  for  the 
islands'  security. 

Political  Dynamics 

Consensus  has  been  the  dominant  mode  of  Finnish  politics  since 
the  formation  of  a  broadly  based  coalition  government  in  1966  and 
the  establishment  of  the  comprehensive  incomes  policy  system  in 
the  late  1960s.  The  government,  made  up  of  parties  fundamentally 
opposed  to  each  other,  was  formed  at  the  insistence  of  President 
Kekkonen.  He  had  long  wished  to  heal  the  deep  and  bitter  rifts 
that  had  marred  Finnish  public  life  since  the  country  had  gained 
independence  in  1917. 

The  dozen  or  so  political  parties  that  made  up  the  country's  party 
system  in  1966  reflected  the  divisions  that  ran  through  Finnish 
society.  The  socialist  end  of  the  spectrum  was  broken  into  two  mutu- 
ally hostile,  roughly  equal  segments,  communist  and  social 
democratic,  often  accompanied  by  leftist  splinter  groups.  The 
political  middle  was  filled,  first,  by  the  agrarian  Center  Party,  the 
country's  most  important  party,  with  a  rural  base  in  a  society  that 
was  rapidly  becoming  urbanized;  second,  by  the  Swedish  People's 
Party  (Svenska  Folkpartiet — SEP),  representing  a  minority  wor- 
ried about  its  future  and  divided  along  class  lines;  and  third,  by 
a  classic  liberal  party  that  was  in  decline.  The  right  consisted  of 
a  highly  conservative  party  tied  to  big  business  and  to  high  offi- 
cials, the  KOK;  and  the  radical  Finnish  Rural  Party  (Suomen 
Maaseudun  Puolue — SMP),  the  populist  impulses  of  which  linked 


246 


Government  and  Politics 


it  to  the  "forgotten"  little  man  often  also  resident  in  urban  areas. 
Kekkonen's  presidential  power  and  personal  prestige  enabled  bin; 
to  form  in  1966  the  popular  front  government  that  pulled  together 
sizable  social  groups  to  realize  important  welfare  legislation  in  the 
late  1960s. 

The  mending  of  rifts  in  the  labor  movement  and  a  fortuitous 
agreement  in  1968  by  leading  actors  in  the  market  sector  led  to 
the  first  of  a  nu/nber  of  comprehensive  incomes  agreements.  These 
agreements,  reached  by  organizations  representing  most  econom- 
ically active  Finns,  usually  ran  for  several  years  and  often  required 
enabling  legislation  (see  Industrial  Relations,  ch.  3). 

Critics  of  the  agreements,  which  have  brought  much  prosperity 
to  Finland  and  therefore  enjoy  widespread  support,  charge  that 
their  monolithic  quality  has  meant  not  consensus  but  a  "time  of 
no  alternatives."  According  to  this  view,  the  agreements  have 
reduced  state  institutions  to  mere  ratifying  agents  rather  than 
governing  bodies.  It  is  claimed  that  labor  and  business  negotiate 
while  government  approves  after  the  fact. 

Most  of  the  country's  political  parties,  so  fractious  and  distinct 
until  the  1960s,  then  drifted  toward  the  political  center;  remain- 
ing disagreements  among  the  principal  parties  focused  less  on  what 
policies  were  to  be  than  on  how  they  were  to  be  implemented. 
Because  most  economic  legislation  required  the  set  majorities  stipu- 
lated by  laws  of  constitutional  status,  parties  were  obliged  to  work 
closely  together.  Even  parties  not  in  government  have  had  their 
say  about  the  content  of  economic  legislation,  for  without  their 
approval  many  government  bills  would  have  failed. 

Another  characteristic  of  Finnish  politics  and  public  life  was  the 
common  practice  of  reaching  agreements  on  key  questions  through 
informal  backstairs  elite  consultation.  Often  disputes  were  settled 
through  private  discussions  by  the  concerned  parties  before  they 
were  handled  in  the  formal  bargaining  sites  established  for  their 
public  resolution.  This  was  true  for  wage  package  settlements,  as 
weU  as  for  legislative  proposals  scheduled  for  debate  in  the 
Eduskunta,  and  for  other  issues  that  required  negotiation  and  com- 
promise. An  institutionalized  version  of  behind-the-scenes  negoti- 
ations was  the  Evening  School  of  the  Council  of  State,  where  leading 
figures  of  various  groups  could  freely  discuss  issues  on  the  govern- 
ment's agenda.  The  Finnish  tradition  of  informal  sauna  discus- 
sions was  an  extreme  example  of  informal  inter-elite  consultations. 
Some  observers  claimed  that  important  national  decisions  were 
made  there  in  an  atmosphere  where  frank  bargaining  could  be  most 
easily  practiced.  Advocates  of  these  informal  means  of  uniting  elite 
representatives  of  diverse  interests  held  that  they  were  quick  and 


247 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

to  the  point.  Opponents  countered  that  they  encouraged  secrecy, 
bypassed  government  institutions,  and  uhimately  subverted 
democracy. 

Since  the  second  half  of  the  1960s,  there  has  been  an  increasing 
formalization  of  the  role  played  by  political  parties  in  the  coun- 
try's public  life.  In  1967  the  government  began  paying  subsidies 
to  political  parties,  and  the  passage  of  the  Act  of  Political  Parties 
in  1969  gave  the  practice  a  legal  basis.  According  to  the  law,  par- 
ties were  to  receive  subsidies  according  to  the  number  of  delegates 
they  had  in  the  Eduskunta.  Several  other  eligibility  requirements 
for  state  funds  that  also  had  to  be  met  were  nationwide — rather 
than  local — activity  for  political  purposes,  determination  of  inter- 
nal party  affairs  by  democratic  means,  voting  membership  of  at 
least  5,000,  and  a  published  general  political  program. 

The  Act  of  Political  Parties  provided  the  first  mention  of  parties 
in  Finnish  legislation,  despite  their  central  position  in  the  coun- 
try's political  life.  State  subsidies  were  a  recognition  of  the  role  par- 
ties played,  and  the  subsidies  have  further  increased  that  role. 
Consequently,  the  number  of  party  officials  has  increased,  as  has 
the  number  of  parties,  an  effect  opposite  to  that  intended  by  the 
large  parties  that  pressed  for  subsidies.  The  large  parties  funneled 
a  good  part  of  their  funds  to  their  local  and  their  ancillary  organi- 
zations, while  the  small  parties,  with  their  existence  at  stake,  used 
their  resources  on  the  national  level. 

The  Social  Democratic  Party 

Founded  in  1899  as  the  Finnish  Labor  Party,  the  Finnish  Social 
Democratic  Party  (Suomen  Sosialidemokraattinen  Puolue — SDP) 
took  its  present  name  in  1903  and  adopted  a  program  that  envi- 
sioned the  gradual  realization  of  a  socialist  society,  not  by  revolu- 
tion but  through  parliamentary  democracy.  In  the  1907 
parliamentary  election,  the  SDP  won  eighty  seats,  easily  surpass- 
ing the  results  of  its  closest  rival,  the  Old  Finn  Party.  Then,  in 
1916,  the  last  time  any  Finnish  party  has  done  so,  the  SDP  won 
slightly  more  than  an  absolute  majority. 

Seduced  by  the  example  of  the  Bolshevik  Revolution  in  nearby 
Petrograd,  many  Social  Democrats  sought  in  early  1918  to  realize 
long-term  party  goals  quickly  and  by  force  (see  The  Finnish  Civil 
War,  ch.  1).  After  the  defeat  of  the  left  in  the  civil  war  and  the 
departure  of  radical  elements  from  its  ranks,  however,  the  SDP 
was  reconstituted  in  the  same  year  under  the  leadership  of  the 
moderate  Vaino  Tanner,  an  opponent  of  the  use  of  violence  for 
political  ends.  Although  still  the  country's  largest  political  party, 
the  SDP  was  in  only  one  government — a  short-lived  minority 


248 


Government  and  Politics 


government  formed  by  Tanner  in  1926 — until  1937.  At  that  time, 
it  joined  the  Agrarian  Party  (Maalaisliitto — ML)  in  forming  the 
first  of  the  so-called  Red-Earth  governments,  the  most  common 
and  important  coalition  pattern  for  the  next  fifty  years.  A  temper- 
ing of  SDP  policy  on  the  place  of  the  small  farmer  in  Finnish  soci- 
ety permitted  political  cooperation  with  the  Agrarians,  although 
the  party  retained  its  program  of  a  planned  economy  and  the 
socialization  of  the  means  of  production. 

It  was  in  1937  that  the  SDP  first  began  to  demand  the  right  to 
collective  bargaining,  and  the  party  remained  closely  connected 
to  organized  labor.  In  1930,  for  example,  it  had  formed  the  Con- 
federation of  Finnish  Trade  Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiyhdistysten 
Keskusliitto — SAK)  in  an  attempt  to  counter  communist  influence 
in  the  labor  movement.  During  World  War  II,  the  SDP  contributed 
significantly  to  national  unity,  and  it  resisted  both  rightist  dreams 
of  a  Greater  Finland  and  the  desires  of  others  for  an  early  truce 
with  the  Soviet  Union. 

After  the  war,  long-standing  tensions  within  the  party  caused 
factional  disputes,  between  those  advocating  closer  relations  with 
both  the  Soviets  and  the  newly  legalized  Communist  Party  of  Fin- 
land (Suomen  Kommunistinen  Puolue — SKP)  and  those  critical 
of  the  Soviet  Union  and  its  undemocratic  methods.  Some  SDP 
members  left  it  for  the  newly  formed  popular  front  organization, 
the  Finnish  People's  Democratic  League  (Suomen  Kansan 
Demokraattinen  Liitto — SKDL),  which  participated  in  the  broad 
popular  front  government  formed  after  the  1945  elections.  After 
the  defeat  of  the  communists  in  the  1948  elections,  the  SDP  held 
all  cabinet  posts  in  the  minority  government  of  1948-1950;  however, 
thereafter  the  party  participated  in  cabinets  on  an  irregular  basis, 
and  it  was  riven  by  internal  struggles  until  the  1960s. 

During  the  1950s  and  early  1960s,  the  SDP  as  a  whole  became 
increasingly  moderate.  An  early  indication  of  this  move  toward 
moderation  was  the  party  program  adopted  in  1952  that  played 
down  the  role  of  class  conflict  and  was  critical  of  communism.  Still, 
bitter  internal  wrangles  continued  to  plague  the  party  into  the  1960s. 
The  conflicts  had  both  political  and  personal  origins,  but  their  core 
was  disagreement  about  the  SDP's  policy  toward  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion. Tanner's  implacable  hostility  to  the  undemocratic  nature  of 
Soviet  society  had  led  Moscow  to  insist  on  his  imprisonment  as 
a  "war  criminal"  after  the  war.  His  reinstatement  as  party  leader 
in  1957  has  generally  been  regarded  as  a  factor  in  the  Night  Frost 
Crisis  of  1958  and  in  the  SDP's  subsequent  exclusion  from  power 
until  1966  (see  Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics, 
1948-66,  ch.  1). 


249 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Conflicts  relating  to  domestic  politics  resulted  in  the  departure 
in  1959  of  members  close  to  farming  interests.  They  formed  the 
Social  Democratic  Union  of  Workers  and  Small  Farmers  (Tyovaen 
ja  Pienviljelijain  Sosialidemokraattinen  Liitto — TPSL),  a  splinter 
group  that  contested  elections  and  was  included  in  several  govern- 
ments until  the  1970s,  when  it  expired  and  most  of  its  remaining 
members  returned  to  the  SDP. 

The  election  of  Rafael  Paasio  to  the  party  chairmanship  in  1963 
ended  the  reign  of  the  old  leadership  and  brought  a  gradual 
improvement  in  SDP  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union;  another  result 
was  a  gradual  healing  of  rifts  within  the  labor  movement.  These 
changes,  coupled  with  the  election  returns  of  1966  that  led  to  the 
first  socialist  majority  in  the  Eduskunta  since  1945,  allowed  the 
party  to  leave  the  political  wilderness  to  which  it  had  been  con- 
signed after  the  Note  Crisis  of  1961  (see  table  5,  Appendix  A).  It 
participated  in  a  strong  majority  government  together  with  the 
newly  renamed  Center  Party  (formerly  the  Agrarian  Party),  the 
SKDL,  and  the  TPSL.  The  popular  front  government  passed  a 
good  part  of  the  legislation  that  transformed  Finland  into  a  modern 
welfare  state  of  the  Scandinavian  type  and  helped  to  establish  the 
system  of  collective  wage  agreements  that  still  prevailed  in  the  late 
1980s. 

During  the  1970s,  the  SDP  moved  closer  to  the  center  in  Fin- 
nish politics  as  a  result  of  the  departure  of  some  of  the  party's  mem- 
bers for  groups  farther  to  the  left  and  the  cautious  pragmatic 
leadership  of  Kalevi  Sorsa,  who  became  party  chairman  in  1975. 
Sorsa,  who  held  this  position  until  1987,  served  from  the  mid-1970s 
until  the  late  1980s  as  either  prime  minister  or  foreign  minister 
in  all  governments,  which  helped  to  remove  any  doubts  about  the 
party's  suitability  for  governing. 

The  SDP's  success  in  the  elections  for  the  Eduskunta  in  1983, 
coming  after  the  triumph  of  SDP  politician  Mauno  Koivisto  in  the 
presidential  election  a  year  earlier,  may  have  marked  a  high  point 
in  the  party's  history,  for  in  the  second  half  of  the  1980s  the  SDP 
had  trouble  attracting  new  voters  from  postindustrial  Finland's 
growing  service  sector.  The  SDP's  years  as  a  governing  party,  which 
had  tied  it  to  many  pragmatic  compromises,  lessened  its  appeal 
for  some.  At  the  same  time,  the  number  of  blue-collar  workers, 
its  most  important  source  of  support,  declined.  The  party  could 
be  seen  as  a  victim  of  its  own  success  in  that  it  had  participated 
in  implementing  policies  that  brought  unprecedented  prosperity 
to  Finland,  which  served  to  transform  Finnish  society  and  dissolve 
old  voting  blocs. 


250 


upper  left,  Kalevi  Sorsa,  a 
leading  Social  Democrat  and 
former  prime  minister  and 
minister  of  foreign  affairs; 
Upper  right,  Paavo  Vdyrynen, 
a  prominent  member  of  the 
Center  Party  and  a  former 
minister  of  foreign  affairs; 
Lower  right,  Harri  Holkeri, 
leader  of  the  National 
Coalition  Party  and  prime 
minister,  1987- 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland, 
Washington 


251 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

The  party  lost  100,000  votes  and  the  office  of  prime  minister 
in  the  1987  parliamentary  elections  (see  table  6,  Appendix  A).  The 
SDP  remained  in  the  government  formed  by  the  conservative 
National  Coalition  Party,  however.  Observers  believed  that  the  new 
party  chairman,  Pertti  Paasio,  son  of  Rafael  Paasio,  and  other  youn- 
ger members  of  the  party  would  have  to  adapt  to  long-term  trends 
in  Finnish  society  that  promised  to  make  the  party's  future  difficult. 
Although  the  SDP  registered  slight  gains  in  the  1988  local  elec- 
tions, it  still  had  to  contend  with  the  same  economic  and  social 
problems  that  made  the  other  social  democratic  parties  of  Western 
Europe  seem  to  many  to  be  parties  of  the  past. 

The  Center  Party 

The  Center  Party  (Keskustapuolue — Kesk),  which  took  this  name 
in  1965  with  the  aim  of  widening  its  appeal  and  adapting  to  chang- 
ing social  conditions,  was  founded  in  1906  as  the  Agrarian  Party. 
It  has  been,  as  its  present  name  indicates,  the  key  party  in  Finnish 
politics  since  independence;  until  the  formation  of  a  conservative- 
socialist  government  in  1987,  it  had  participated  in  virtually  every 
majority  government.  Founded  to  represent  the  interests  of  small 
farmers  in  eastern  and  in  northern  Finland,  Kesk  also  gradually 
came  to  claim  central  Finland  as  an  area  of  support  during  the 
1920s.  As  a  consequence,  it  was  the  largest  nonsocialist  party  until 
the  national  elections  of  1979,  when  the  National  Coalition  Party 
pulled  ahead.  As  the  party  of  small  farmers,  the  Kesk  was,  from 
its  birth,  suspicious  of  the  concentrated  economic  power  of  the 
south — labor,  large  farmers,  and  business.  To  counter  these 
interests,  the  party  advocated  a  firmly  democratic  and  p>opulist  pro- 
gram that  emphasized  the  primacy  of  the  family  farm,  small-scale 
firms  managed  by  their  owners,  decentralization  of  social  organi- 
zations, and  the  traditional  virtues  and  values  of  small  towns  and 
the  countryside.  The  party's  commitment  to  democracy  was  test- 
ed and  proven  in  the  1930s  when  it  rejected  the  aims  of  the  radical 
right  and  perhaps  saved  Finland  from  fascism.  In  the  second  half 
of  the  decade,  it  began  to  govern  with  the  assistance  of  the  SDP, 
forming  with  that  party  the  first  of  the  so-called  Red-Earth  govern- 
ments that  became  the  country's  dominant  coalition  pattern  for 
the  next  half-century.  Kesk's  claim  to  represent  the  "real"  Fin- 
land, however,  caused  it,  at  times,  to  seek  to  curtail  the  rights  of 
the  Swedish-speaking  minority,  and  some  Kesk  leaders,  Urho 
Kekkonen  for  example,  were  active  in  the  Finnicization  program. 

Although  opposed  to  fascist  doctrines,  Kesk  had  favored  fight- 
ing on  the  side  of  Nazi  Germany — as  a  cobelligerent — during 
the  Continuation  War  of  1941-44,  in  the  hope  of  regaining  lost 


252 


Government  and  Politics 


national  territory.  During  the  course  of  the  war,  however,  some 
of  the  party's  leaders  came  to  the  conclusion  that  good  relations 
with  the  Soviet  Union  were  essential  if  Finland  were  to  survive  as 
an  independent  nation.  Kekkonen,  in  particular,  was  a  driving  force 
in  effecting  this  change  of  party  policy  in  the  postwar  period  (see 
Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics,  1948-66,  ch.  1).  This 
policy  change  was  achieved,  though,  only  after  a  bitter  struggle 
during  which  segments  of  the  party's  leadership  hoped  for  Kekko- 
nen's  political  destruction;  however,  generational  change  and  his 
domestic  and  foreign  successes  allowed  Kekkonen  gradually  to  gain 
nearly  absolute  control  of  the  party,  which  he  retained  even  after 
election  in  1956  to  the  presidency,  a  post  ideally  above  party  politics. 

Soviet  desires  for  a  dependable  contact  in  Finland,  and  the 
unsuitability  of  other  parties,  soon  made  Kesk  Moscow's  preferred 
negotiating  partner,  despite  the  party's  anticommunist  program. 
The  Soviets'  natural  ally,  the  SKP,  was  seen  as  being  too  much 
a  political  outsider  to  be  an  effective  channel  of  communication. 
Kesk's  position  in  the  center  of  the  political  spectrum  made  it  the 
natural  "hinge  party"  for  coalition  governments.  After  the  Note 
Crisis,  Kekkonen 's  mastery  of  foreign  policy  also  served,  and  at 
times  was  cynically  used,  to  preserve  this  role. 

Postwar  social  changes,  such  as  internal  migration  to  the  south 
and  a  growing  service  sector,  have  reduced  support  for  Kesk  and 
have  brought  about  a  steady  decline  in  its  share  of  seats  in  the 
Eduskunta  (see  table  4,  Appendix  A).  Attempts  to  bring  the  party's 
program  into  line  with  a  changing  society  did  not  win  Kesk  new 
support.  In  prosperous  southern  Finland,  for  example,  Kesk  failed 
to  make  significant  inroads,  electing  only  once  a  member  of  the 
Eduskunta  from  Helsinki.  Young  voters  in  the  south,  or  the  coastal 
region  as  it  is  sometimes  called,  favored  the  National  Coalition  Party 
or  the  environmentalist  Greens  (Vihreat).  Also  damaging  to  Kesk 
was  the  loss  of  a  segment  of  its  membership  to  the  SMP,  after  its 
formation  in  1959.  Kesk  was  not  able  to  retain  the  presidency  after 
Kekkonen's  retirement  in  1981;  its  candidate  for  the  1982  presiden- 
tial election,  Johannes  Virolainen,  was  easily  defeated,  as  was  the 
1988  Kesk  candidate  for  this  post,  Paavo  Vayrynen. 

Kesk's  failure,  despite  only  slight  losses,  to  participate  in  the 
government  formed  after  the  1987  national  elections  was  perhaps 
a  watershed  in  Finnish  domestic  politics.  Until  that  time,  Kesk  had 
been  an  almost  permanent  governing  party.  Demographic  and 
occupational  trends  continued  to  challenge  Kesk  in  the  late  1980s, 
but  the  party's  large  and  convinced  membership,  far  greater  than 
that  of  any  other  party,  probably  meant  that  any  decline  in  its  role 
in  Finnish  politics  would  be  a  slow  one. 


253 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

The  National  Coalition  Party 

The  National  Coalition  Party  (KanscJlinen  Kokoomuspuolue — 
KOK)  was  founded  in  November  1918  by  members  of  the  Old  Finn 
Party  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  by  followers  of  the  Young  Finn  Party. 
It  represented  interests  desiring  a  strong  state  government  that 
would  guarantee  law  and  order  and  the  furtherance  of  commerce. 
Defeated  in  its  attempt  to  establish  a  monarchical  government,  the 
party  formulated  a  program  in  1922  that  clearly  set  out  its  conser- 
vative aim  of  emphasizing  stability  over  reform.  The  large  farms 
and  businesses  in  southern  Finland  were  the  basis  of  the  party's 
support. 

Throughout  the  interwar  period,  the  party  was  hostile  to  the 
rights  of  the  Swedish-speaking  minority  and  sought  to  deprive  the 
Swedish  language  of  its  status  as  one  of  the  country's  two  official 
languages.  During  the  1930s,  it  had  close  contacts  with  the  radical 
right-wing  movements  that  mirrored  trends  elsewhere  and  for  a 
time  posed  a  threat  to  Finnish  democracy.  One  of  the  party's  lead- 
ers, Juho  Paasikivi,  elected  party  chairman  in  1934,  attempted  with 
some  success  to  move  it  away  from  these  extreme  positions.  The 
KOK  was  opposed  to  the  Red-Earth  government  formed  in  1937, 
but  was  not  strong  enough  to  prevent  it.  During  the  war,  the  party 
was  part  of  the  national  unity  governments. 

After  the  war,  the  KOK  became  the  most  right-wing  party  in 
Finland,  as  groups  farther  right  were  banned  by  the  armistice  agree- 
ment of  1944  and  the  SKP  was  legalized  (see  The  Cold  War  and 
the  Treaty  of  1948,  ch.  1).  Despite  Paasikivi 's  terms  as  prime 
minister  in  the  first  postwar  years,  his  election  to  the  presidency 
in  1946,  and  the  role  he  played  in  the  drafting  of  the  Treaty  of 
Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance  (FCMA — see  Ap- 
pendix B)  as  well  as  in  the  reorienting  of  Finnish  foreign  policy, 
his  party  was  not  regsirded  as  an  acceptable  coalition  partner  for 
much  of  the  postwar  period.  Soviet  doubts  about  the  sincerity  of 
KOK's  support  for  the  new  direction  of  Finnish  foreign  policy, 
the  so-called  Paasikivi  Line,  was  sufficient  to  keep  the  KOK,  for 
decades  the  country's  second  largest  nonsocialist  party,  out  of 
government  for  most  of  the  postwar  period. 

The  party  also  was  excluded  from  governments  because  it  was 
seen  by  many  to  be  rigidly  right-wing,  despite  party  program 
changes  in  the  1950s  that  moved  it  closer  to  the  conservatism  prac- 
ticed by  its  sister  parties  in  larger  West  European  countries.  The 
party  program  of  1957  formalized  its  support  for  a  "social  market 
economy"  and  for  the  concept  of  employer  responsibility  to  wage 
earners. 


254 


Government  and  Politics 


In  the  postwar  years,  the  KOK  often  allied  with  the  SDP  to 
reduce  agricultural  subsidies,  a  joint  effort  that  continued  in  the 
late  1980s.  The  division  between  city  and  country  interests  con- 
tinued to  be  a  key  element  in  Finnish  politics  in  the  second  half 
of  the  1980s,  and  it  was  one  reason  why  the  two  principal  non- 
socialist  parties,  the  KOK  and  Kesk,  were  political  rivals. 

An  action  that  increased  the  enmity  between  the  KOK  and  the 
Kesk  leader,  Kekkonen,  and  contributed  to  the  Note  Crisis  was 
the  formation  of  the  so-called  Honka  League  by  the  KOK  and  the 
SDP.  The  Honka  League  aimed  to  stop  Kekkonen 's  reelection  in 
1962,  but  the  attempt  never  had  a  chance,  and  it  was  soon  aban- 
doned. The  KOK  continued  to  be  opposed  to  Kekkonen  and  to 
his  foreign  policy,  however,  and  it  was  the  only  major  party  to 
oppose  his  reelection  in  1968.  Nevertheless,  moderate  elements  in 
the  party  gradually  gained  control  and  softened  its  policies,  both 
domestic  and  foreign.  In  the  1970  national  elections,  the  KOK 
increased  the  number  of  its  seats  in  the  Eduskunta  by  one- third, 
and  since  1979  it  has  been  the  largest  nonsocicilist  party  in  the 
country. 

Some  right-wing  members  of  the  KOK,  dissatisfied  with  the 
party's  steady  drift  toward  the  politic2il  center,  have  left  it.  In  1973 
some  formed  the  Constitutional  Party  of  the  Right  (Perustuslailli- 
nen  Oikeistopuolue — POP)  to  protest  Kekkonen 's  special  election 
to  the  presidency  in  1974,  but  this  only  accelerated  the  KOK's  move 
toward  moderation.  Under  the  leadership  of  Harri  Holkeri — the 
party's  candidate  for  the  presidency  in  1982  and  in  1988,  and  Ilkka 
Suominen — longtime  party  chairman,  the  KOK  has  been  able  to 
attract  many  of  those  employed  in  Finland's  rapidly  growing  service 
sector,  and  in  the  1987  elections  it  nearly  overtook  the  SDP.  Kept 
out  of  power  because  of  unexpected  losses  in  the  1983  Eduskunta 
elections,  Holkeri  was  able  to  form  a  government  after  the  1987 
elections  and  to  take  the  prime  ministership  for  himself.  He  pledged 
his  government  to  a  program  of  preserving  Finland's  welfare  state 
while  maintaining  a  free  market  economy  strong  enough  to  be  com- 
petitive abroad  and  to  safeguard  the  country's  prosperity. 

The  Communist  Party  of  Finland 

The  Communist  Party  of  Finland  (Suomen  Kommunistinen 
Puolue — SKP)  was  founded  in  August  1918  in  Moscow  by  exiled 
leftists  after  their  defeat  in  the  civil  war.  Its  Marxist-Leninist 
progrcim  advocated  the  establishment  of  a  socialist  society  by  revolu- 
tionary means.  Declared  illegal  the  following  year,  the  SKP 
was  active  in  Finland  during  the  1920s  through  front  groups,  the 
most  notable  of  which  was  the  Finnish  Socialist  Workers'  Party 


255 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

(Suomen  Sosialistinen  Tyovaenpuolue — SSTP),  which  received 
more  than  100,000  votes  in  the  1922  national  election  and  won 
27  seats  in  the  Eduskunta.  The  rise  of  the  radical  right-wing  Lapua 
movement  was  a  factor  in  the  banning  of  all  communist  organiza- 
tions in  1930,  and  the  SKP  was  forced  underground  (see  The 
Establishment  of  Finnish  Democracy,  ch.  1). 

The  Stalinist  purges  of  the  1930s  thinned  the  ranks  of  the  SKP 
leadership  resident  in  the  Soviet  Union.  A  survivor  of  the  purges 
and  one  of  the  founders  of  the  party.  Otto  Kuusinen,  was  named 
to  head  a  Finnish  puppet  government  set  up  by  the  Soviets  after 
their  attack  on  Finland  in  1939.  It  did  not  ever  attract  the  support 
from  the  Finnish  workers  that  the  Soviets  expected,  nor  did  the 
SKP  succeed,  during  the  Continuation  War,  in  mounting  a 
resistance  movement  against  Finnish  forces  fighting  the  Soviet 
Union.  At  the  war's  end,  the  SKP  was  able  to  resume  open  politi- 
cal activity  within  Finland;  in  the  1945  election  it  won  forty-nine 
seats  and  was  rewarded  with  several  posts  in  the  resulting  cabinet 
(see  The  Cold  War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948,  ch.  1). 

In  this  election,  as  in  all  elections  since  then,  the  SKP  worked 
through  an  umbrella  organization,  the  Finnish  People's  Democratic 
League  (Suomen  Kansan  Demokraattinen  Liitto — SKDL),  estab- 
lished with  the  aim  of  uniting  all  left-wing  elements  into  a  com- 
mon front.  Although  mainly  composed  of  noncommunists,  and 
usually  led  by  a  noncommunist  socialist,  the  SKDL  has  generally 
been  dominated  by  the  SKP.  Despite  its  initial  electoral  success, 
however,  the  SKDL  has  not  been  successful  in  attracting  all  Fin- 
nish leftists,  and  the  bulk  of  the  SDP  has  refused  to  work  with  it. 

The  SKDL  was  not  able  to  retain  its  hold  on  the  voters  in  the 
1948  Eduskunta  election,  and  it  lost  eleven  seats.  Rumors  of  a 
planned  communist  coup  contributed  to  this  defeat.  During  the 
1950s  and  the  early  1960s,  the  SKP/SKDL  continued  to  partici- 
pate in  the  electoral  process,  but  with  mixed  results.  The 
SKP/SKDL  did  not  enter  government  again  until  1966,  when  Kek- 
konen  insisted  that  the  group  be  given  ministerial  posts  so  that  a 
broadly  based  coalition  government  could  be  formed.  After  this 
date,  the  party  was  in  most  governments  until  December  1982, 
when  Prime  Minister  Sorsa  forced  it  to  resign  for  refusing  to  sup- 
port a  part  of  the  government's  program. 

Tensions  long  present  in  the  SKP  became  more  pronounced  in 
the  second  half  of  the  1960s,  when  social  changes  began  putting 
pressure  on  the  party  to  adapt  itself  to  new  conditions.  Internal 
migration  within  Finland,  from  the  northern  and  eastern  areas 
where  "backwoods  communism"  had  always  been  a  mainstay  of 
party  support,  deprived  the  SKP  of  votes.  The  gradually  increasing 


256 


Government  and  Politics 


service  sector  of  the  economy  reduced  the  size  of  the  blue-collar 
vote  in  the  south  that  the  SKP  had  traditionally  split  with  the  SDP. 
A  more  prosperous  economy  also  softened  social  divisions  and  made 
the  classic  Marxist  remedies  expounded  by  the  party  seem  less  rele- 
vant. Failure  to  attract  younger  voters  worsened  election  results 
in  addition  to  leaving  the  party  with  an  older  and  less  educated 
membership.  These  threatening  trends,  combined  with  the  SKP's 
participation  in  governing  coalitions  since  1966,  brought  to  a  head 
political  disagreements  between  those  in  the  party  who  supported 
the  system  of  parliamentary  democracy  and  those  who  were  attached 
to  a  totalitarian  Stalinist  ideology.  After  1969  the  party  was  virtu- 
ally split,  although  the  formal  break  came  only  in  1986  following 
years  of  bitter  dissension. 

Through  the  1970s  and  the  first  half  of  the  1980s,  two  factions, 
a  majority  reformist  or  revisionist  wing,  led  first  by  Aarne  Saari- 
nen  (1966-82)  and  then  by  Arvo  Aalto  (1982-88),  and  a  minority 
Stadinist  wing,  under  Taisto  Sinisalo,  fought  for  party  dominance. 
Each  group  had  its  own  local  and  regional  organization  and  its  own 
newspaper — the  moderates,  Kansan  Uutiset  and  the  doctrinaire  fac- 
tion, Tiedonantaja.  Both  groups  remained  in  the  SKP  largely  at  the 
insistence  of  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union  (CPSU). 
The  revisionists,  sometimes  characterized  as  Eurocommunists,  took 
posts  in  cabinets,  but  the  Stalinists,  or  "Taistos"  as  they  are  often 
called  after  the  first  name  of  their  leader,  refused  to  do  so,  prefer- 
ring to  remain  ordinary  members  of  the  Eduskunta  instead.  To 
heal  the  rift,  a  third  faction  appeared  in  the  early  1980s,  and  for 
a  time  one  of  its  leaders,  Jouko  Kajanoja,  was  party  chairman. 

The  1984  election  of  Aalto  to  the  party  chairmanship  marked 
the  end  of  the  attempted  reconciliation,  and  in  1985  the  revisionists 
began  to  purge  the  Stalinists,  who  late  in  the  year  named  their  fac- 
tion the  Committee  of  SKP  Organizations.  The  revisionists  resisted 
pressure  for  unity  from  the  CPSU,  and  for  this  they  were  punished 
in  late  1985  when  the  Soviets  cancelled  the  highly  profitable  con- 
tract with  the  SKP  to  print  Sputnik,  an  international  magazine.  The 
CPSU  gave  the  contract  to  a  printing  firm  controlled  by  the 
minority.  The  resulting  financial  losses  meant  that  Kansan  Uutiset 
could  appear  only  five  days  a  week. 

In  1986  the  split  was  formalized.  Early  in  the  year,  the  reform- 
ist group  published  a  new  program  that  stressed  the  importance 
of  an  independent,  yet  friendly,  relationship  with  the  communist 
parties  of  other  nations.  In  April  the  Stalinists  set  up  an  electoral 
organization  distinct  from  the  SKDL,  the  Democratic  Alternative 
(Demokraattinen  Vaihtoehto — DEVA).  In  June  the  SKDL  party 
group  in  the  Eduskunta  expelled  the  DEVA  representatives  from 


257 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

its  ranks,  and  the  latter  then  formed  their  own  parHamentary  group. 
Later  in  the  year,  the  two  factions  set  different  party  congress  dates, 
further  formalizing  the  split.  In  the  1987  election,  the  two  groups 
competed  with  one  another,  and  they  had  separate  lists  of 
candidates — the  DEVA  members  led  by  the  actress  Kristiina 
Halkola  and  the  SKP/SKDL  led  by  Arvo  Aalto.  The  Stalinists  lost 
six  of  their  ten  seats  in  the  Eduskunta,  while  the  reformists  lost  one. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  two  factions  appeared  more  and  more 
irrelevant  as  actors  in  Finnish  politics.  The  reformists  supported 
the  democratic  system,  yet  they  attracted  few  new  recruits.  The 
Stalinists,  opposed  to  the  central  values  held  by  most  Finns,  split 
even  further.  In  1988  some  of  them  formed  a  new  party,  the  Fin- 
nish Communist  Party-Unity  (Suomen  Kommunistinen  Puolue- 
Yhtenaisyys — SKP-Y),  and  campaigned  with  DEVA  in  the  local 
elections  of  the  fall  of  that  year.  An  even  smaller  number,  claim- 
ing to  represent  the  truest  principles  of  communism,  refused  to  join 
this  new  party  and  formed  their  own. 

The  Swedish  People's  Party 

The  abolition  of  the  four-estate  Diet  and  the  introduction  of 
universal  suffrage  in  1906  made  it  clear  to  the  Swedish- speaking 
elite  that  its  traditional  domination  of  Finnish  politics  was  at  an 
end.  The  only  chance  to  protect  the  rights  of  Swedish- speaking  Firms 
was  seen  to  lie  in  the  formation  of  a  party  with  a  broader  base  that 
would  unite  all  classes  of  the  minority.  For  this  reason  the  Swed- 
ish People's  Party  (Svenska  Folkpartiet — SEP)  was  created  in  1906. 
Composed  of  members  from  all  classes,  the  party  passed  over  eco- 
nomic questions  to  concentrate  on  preserving  the  existence  of 
Swedish-speaking  Finns  as  a  cultural  group. 

Desires  for  local  autonomy  in  the  southern  and  western  coastal 
areas,  where  Swedish  Finns  had  lived  for  centuries  and  from  which 
the  party  still  drew  its  support  in  the  late  1980s,  were  not  met  by 
the  Constitution  Act  of  1919  (see  fig.  12).  The  Swedish  language 
was  guaranteed  the  status  of  an  official  language,  however,  and 
it  was  given  specicd  protection  in  those  areas  in  which  it  tradition- 
ally had  been  spoken.  During  the  interwar  decades  when  Swedish- 
speaking  Finns  were  under  serious  Dressure  from  the  Agrarian  Party 
and  the  National  Coalition  Party,  the  SEP  allied  itself  with  the  SDP 
to  protect  minority  rights,  for  though  conservative  in  economic  mat- 
ters, the  SEP  was  liberal  on  social  questions.  SDP  compromises 
with  the  Agrarians  in  order  to  come  to  power  in  the  Red-Earth 
governments  of  1937  brought  the  Swedish  minority  some  reverses, 
but  the  Finnicization  program  was  not  fully  realized. 


258 


Government  and  Politics 


After  the  war,  the  language  question  was  considered  to  be  set- 
tled in  a  way  generally  satisfactory  to  most  Swedish-speaking  Finns. 
The  SFP  saw  to  it  that  the  setdement  of  400,000  refugees  from 
Karelia  did  not  upset  the  existing  language  badance  in  the  areas 
where  Swedish- speaking  Finns  made  up  a  significant  segment  of 
the  population.  Relations  between  the  SFP  and  the  ML  remained 
strained,  however,  because  of  the  Agrarians'  role  in  attempts  at 
Finnicization. 

The  steady  decline  in  the  number  of  Swedish-speaking  Finns  was 
reflected  in  the  size  of  the  party's  delegation  in  the  Eduskunta.  The 
Finnish  electoral  system  favored  parties  with  strongly  localized  sup- 
port, however,  and  because  of  its  position  in  the  center  of  the  po- 
litical spectrum  the  SFP  has  been  in  most  cabinets  formed  since 
the  war.  The  virtucd  collapse  of  the  Liberal  People's  Party  (Libe- 
raalinen  Kansanpuolue — LKP)  in  the  latter  half  of  the  1970s 
brought  the  SFP  some  new  votes,  and  in  the  1983  and  the  1987 
elections,  the  party  increased  the  number  of  its  seats  in  the  Eduskun- 
ta. Like  the  larger  parties,  the  SFP  has  been  affected  by  the  gener- 
al drift  toward  the  center,  and  some  of  its  right-wing  members  have 
left  it  for  parties  such  as  the  POP. 

Smaller  Parties  and  the  Greens 

In  addition  to  the  four  large  parties  discussed  above,  which  among 
them  enjoyed  the  support  of  about  80  percent  of  Finland's  voters, 
and  the  SFP,  which  despite  its  small  size  had  an  almost  perma- 
nent place  in  coalition  governments,  there  were  several  other 
political  parties  that  had  a  role  in  governing  the  country.  One,  the 
LKP,  was  a  vestige  of  its  former  self;  others,  such  as  the  Greens 
or  the  SMP  were  responses  to  trends  seen  elsewhere  in  recent 
decades  in  Western  Europe. 

The  LKP  is  direcdy  descended  from  the  Young  Finn  Party,  which 
after  independence  took  the  name  National  Progressive  Party  (Kan- 
sallinen  Edistyspuolue — ED)  and  played  a  major  role  in  Finland 
during  the  interwar  period  (see  The  Era  of  Russification,  ch.  1). 
After  World  War  II,  this  party  declined  in  strength  and  was  dis- 
solved in  1951 .  Liberals  subsequendy  formed  two  other  parties  that 
joined  together  in  1965  under  the  present  name.  Liberals  in  one 
party  organization  or  another  continued  to  participate  in  most 
governments  until  1979.  These  liberals  were  proponents  of  busi- 
ness interests  and  the  protection  of  private  property,  but  they  spoke 
also  of  the  need  for  government  planning  and  for  social  welfare 
programs.  The  LKP  has  steadily  lost  support  to  the  other  non- 
socialist  parties,  however.  In  the  1983  and  the  1987  nation2il  elec- 
tions, it  failed  to  win  any  seats  in  the  Eduskunta,  and  in  the  local 


259 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

elections  of  1988  it  lost  more  than  a  quarter  of  its  representatives 
on  municipal  councils.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  future  of  this  once- 
important  party  was  uncertain  at  best. 

The  SMP  was  founded  in  1959  by  the  prominent  and  charis- 
matic Kesk  politician,  Veikko  Vennamo,  who  broke  with  Kekko- 
nen  for  both  political  and  personal  reasons.  The  party,  viewed  for 
most  of  its  life  as  rightist,  has  always  campaigned  as  a  protest  party 
fighting  for  the  interests  of  the  "forgotten  man,"  neglected  or 
ignored  by  larger  parties.  This  populist  party  first  found  support 
among  small  farmers,  but  it  later  received  votes  also  from  city 
dwellers  who  were  keenly  dissatisfied  with  mainstream  politics.  The 
SMP's  support  fluctuated  wildly  from  election  to  election,  and  no 
safe  estimate  about  its  future  was  possible  in  the  late  1980s.  This 
was  especially  the  case  after  its  inclusion  in  governing  coalitions. 
After  considerable  success  in  the  1983  election,  it  got  two  ministerial 
posts.  It  therefore  competed  in  the  1987  election  as  a  governing 
party,  and  it  lost  nearly  half  its  seats  in  parliament.  Equally  bad 
results  were  obtained  in  the  1988  local  elections.  In  addition, 
although  led  in  recent  years  by  the  founder's  son,  Pekka  Vennamo, 
the  party  was  torn  by  dissension.  With  a  single  post  in  the  govern- 
ment, even  after  the  disastrous  1987  results,  the  SMP  was  in  danger 
of  losing  its  character  as  a  protest  party,  the  role  which  had  brought 
it  voter  support. 

The  Finnish  Christian  League  (Suomen  KristiUinen  Liitto — 
SKL)  was  founded  in  1958  to  bring  Christian  ideals  into  politics 
and  to  curb  secularist  trends.  Its  members  generally  belonged  to 
the  state  church,  yet  they  did  not  claim  to  act  in  its  behalf  but  for 
Christian  values  in  general.  The  party's  support  has  fluctuated  since 
it  won  its  first  seat  in  the  Eduskunta  in  1970.  The  SKL  has  never 
had  a  ministerial  post,  even  in  1979  when  it  won  ten  parliamen- 
tary seats.  Its  share  of  votes  declined  sharply  in  the  next  national 
election,  but  rose  again  in  1987,  and  observers  believed  that  a  relia- 
ble base  of  support  remained  that  was  likely  to  ensure  its  continued 
existence. 

An  environmentalist  group,  the  Greens  was  not  an  offlciaUy 
registered  party  during  the  first  years  of  its  existence,  and  it  there- 
fore received  no  government  support  for  the  1983  and  the  1987 
national  elections.  It  was  organized  in  the  early  1980s  as  an  elec- 
toral association  to  work  on  a  variety  of  quality-of-life  issues  and 
to  contest  elections  on  both  the  local  and  the  national  level.  In  1983 
the  group  won  two  seats  in  the  Eduskunta,  the  first  time  an  elec- 
toral association  had  managed  such  a  feat.  In  the  1984  local  elec- 
tions, they  doubled  their  support,  and  in  the  1987  election  they 
won  four  parliamentary  seats. 


260 


Government  and  Politics 


The  group's  membership  was  heterogeneous  with  regard  to  both 
origins  and  aims.  Activists  were  drawn  from  academia,  the  mid- 
dle class,  and  the  disabled,  as  well  as  from  feminist  and  bohemian 
circles.  This  diversity  was  reflected  in  the  multitude  of  members' 
goals,  ranging  from  modest  reforms  to  a  Utopian  shutdown  of 
industry  and  a  return  to  subsistence  farming.  In  mid- 1988  part 
of  the  movement  split  off  and  formed  a  registered  political  party, 
the  Green  League  (Vihrea  Liitto).  The  Greens  as  a  whole  suffered 
a  slight  setback  in  the  1988  local  elections.  Given  its  internal  dis- 
sension, the  role  the  environmentalist  movement  was  to  play  in 
governing  Finland  was  likely  to  remain  small. 

Interest  Groups 

Interest  group  politics  in  Finland  was  managed  primarily  by  the 
large  market- sector  organizations  that  represented  labor  and 
management.  By  the  mid-1980s,  about  85  percent  of  the  work  force, 
both  blue-collar  and  white-collar,  belonged  to  four  labor  federa- 
tions encompassing  about  100  labor  unions.  The  largest  and  oldest 
was  SAK,  which  united  the  approximately  1  million  members, 
mainly  blue-collar,  of  twenty-eight  unions.  SAK  dated  from  1907 
and  was  close  to  the  SDP,  but  it  had  within  it  several  unions  domi- 
nated by  communists.  The  Confederation  of  Salaried  Employees 
and  Civil  Servants  (Toimihenkilo-  ja  Virkamiesjarjestojen  Kes- 
kusliitto — TVK)  consisted  of  14  unions  with  about  370,000  mem- 
bers who  voted  for  a  variety  of  left-wing  and  right-wing  parties. 
The  Central  Organization  of  Professional  Associations  in  Finland 
(Akava)  was  made  up  of  45  unions,  in  which  210,000  members — 
white-collar  professionals — voted  mainly  for  conservative  parties. 
The  Confederation  of  Technical  Employees'  Organizations  in  Fin- 
land (Suomen  Teknisten  Toimihenkilqjarjestojen  Keskusliitto — 
STTK)  united  15  unions,  in  which  130,000  members — lower-level 
white-collar  employees — split  their  votes  among  all  parties. 
Representing  the  interests  of  farmers  and  close  to  the  Kesk  was 
the  Confederation  of  Agricultural  Producers  (Maataloustuottajain 
Keskusliitto — MTK),  with  about  300,000  members.  Represent- 
ing industry  and  management  were  the  Confederation  of  Fin- 
nish Employers  (Suomen  Tyonantajain  Keskusliitto — STK),  made 
up  of  twenty-eight  member  organizations  representing  6,000 
firms,  and  the  Confederation  of  Commerce  Employers  (Lii- 
ketyonantajain  Keskusliitto — LTK)  including  nearly  7,000  firms; 
firms  belonging  to  the  STK  and  the  LTK  had  some  800,000 
employees  in  1985. 

These  organizations  could  speak  for  the  bulk  of  Finland's  work 


261 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


force  and  business  firms,  and,  since  the  first  of  a  series  of  compre- 
hensive incomes  policy  agreements  was  concluded  in  1968,  they 
had  come  to  rivgJ  the  government  in  determining  how  the  coun- 
try's affairs  were  to  be  managed.  The  setdements,  arranged  gener- 
ally at  two-year  intervals,  frequently  involved  not  only  wages  and 
working  conditions  but  also  social  welfare  programs  that  required 
legislation  for  their  realization.  This  obliged  the  governing  coali- 
tion and  the  other  parties  represented  in  the  Eduskunta  to  be  fully 
apprised  of  the  terms  of  the  setdement. 

The  government  itself  provided  officials  to  assist  in  the  negotia- 
tions between  labor  and  management.  In  1971  it  made  permanent 
the  post  of  special  negotiator  for  incomes  policy,  and  a  year  later 
it  created  a  board  within  the  prime  minister's  office  to  assist  this 
official.  On  occasion,  when  negotiations  have  gone  poorly,  the  prime 
minister  or  the  president  has  intervened.  The  government  also  has 
facilitated  the  incomes  agreements  by  providing  expert  advice  on 
probable  future  economic  conditions  and  on  what  the  contending 
parties  could  reasonably  demand.  At  appropriate  times,  leading 
officials  and  politicians  have  issued  statements  so  that  by  the  winter, 
when  formal  negotiations  began,  there  was  a  broadly  accepted  eco- 
nomic framework  within  which  these  negotiations  could  take  place. 

Outside  the  wage  agreement  system,  social  groups,  or  interests, 
generally  worked  through  the  established  parties  to  further  their 
objectives  through  meetings,  lobbying,  and  other  me2ins  of  voic- 
ing their  concerns.  To  secure  the  support  of  some  segments  of  the 
population,  most  politiczd  parties  organized  student,  youth,  and 
sports  groups.  Parties  often  devoted  as  much  as  one-third  of  their 
financial  resources  to  their  auxiliary  and  local  branches. 

Finnish  women,  like  other  groups,  sought  to  further  their  interests 
mainly  through  the  country's  politiccd  and  economic  organizations. 
The  parties  took  care  that  a  good  number  of  their  leaders  were 
women,  and  by  the  1980s  women  made  up  about  one-third  of  the 
Eduskunta.  Women  were  represented  in  market-sector  organiza- 
tions according  to  their  occupations.  The  women's  movement  was 
small;  it  did  not  play  a  significant  role  in  Finnish  political  life,  even 
though  it  had  existed  since  the  1880s,  when  the  first  organization 
involved  in  women's  rights  was  founded.  The  two  main  women's 
organizations  active  in  Finland  in  the  1980s  were  the  Feminist 
Union  (Naisasialiitto  Unioni),  dating  from  1892,  and  the  infor- 
mal collective.  Feminists  (Feministit),  founded  in  1976.  They  were 
both  apolitical,  and  their  membership,  though  mainly  from  the  edu- 
cated middle  class,  contained  some  working-class  women. 

The  Nordic  committee  system  was  a  key  forum  in  which  Fin- 
nish interest  groups,  or  concerned  parties,  made  their  views  known 


262 


Government  and  Politics 


to  the  government.  The  system  had  long  been  used  in  the  region 
to  gather  a  range  of  opinions  on  pubhc  matters.  It  consisted  of  com- 
mittees, both  temporary  ad  hoc  organs  formed  to  dead  with  a  sin- 
gle question  and  permanent  statutory  bodies  created  to  handle  broad 
issues,  that  were  composed  of  experts  and  representatives  of  affected 
interests.  Thus,  advocates  of  labor  and  business,  experts  from  local 
and  national  government,  and,  when  appropriate,  single-issue 
groups,  could  argue  their  cases.  A  committee  report,  if  there  was 
one,  could  be  sent  for  review  to  concerned  parties,  and  thereafter 
to  a  ministry,  where  its  findings  might  figure  in  a  government 
ordinance  or  in  a  legislative  proposal. 

The  Presidential  Election  of  1982  and  Koivisto's  Presidency 

A  major  change  occurred  in  Finnish  domestic  politics  in  Janu- 
ary 1982,  when  the  social  democratic  politician,  Mauno  Koivisto, 
was  elected  president.  He  was  the  first  member  of  the  SDP  to  be 
elevated  to  the  country's  highest  post,  and  his  election  meant  the 
full  integration  of  social  democrats  into  Finnish  public  life  and  an 
end  to  the  postwar  dominance  of  Kesk. 

Koivisto  had  been  a  leading  public  figure  since  the  late  1960s, 
when  he  had  served  as  prime  minister  for  two  years.  During  the 
1970s,  as  governor  of  the  Bank  of  Finland  and,  for  a  short  time, 
as  minister  of  finance,  he  had  won  the  public's  respect  for  the 
accuracy  of  his  economic  forecasts.  His  personality  and  consider- 
able media  astuteness  also  won  him  a  very  considerable  personal 
popularity  across  party  lines.  Born  in  1923  in  Turku,  the  son  of 
a  carpenter,  he  fought  bravely  during  World  War  II.  After  the  war 
he  returned  to  his  native  city,  and  through  years  of  part-time  study, 
earned  a  doctorate  in  sociology  in  1956.  He  was  active  within  the 
moderate  wing  of  the  SDP,  yet  did  not  seek  an  elective  office.  He 
began  his  banking  career  by  directing  a  large  employees'  savings 
bank  in  Helsinki. 

Summoned  again  in  1979  to  serve  as  prime  minister,  Koivisto 
retained  the  public's  esteem  and  became  a  strong  potential  candi- 
date for  the  presidenticd  election  scheduled  for  1984.  Seen  by  Kesk 
politicians  as  a  threat  to  their  party's  hold  on  the  presidency  after 
Kekkonen's  inevitable  retirement,  Koivisto  was  pressured  to  resign 
in  the  spring  of  1981 .  He  refused,  telling  Kekkonen  that  he  would 
continue  as  prime  minister  until  a  lack  of  parliamentary  support 
for  his  government  was  shown.  Koivisto 's  survival  despite  Kek- 
konen's challenge  was  seen  by  some  observers  as  the  end  of  an  era 
in  which  the  president  had  dominated  Finnish  public  life. 

In  the  fall  of  1981,  failing  health  forced  Kekkonen  to  resign  the 
presidency,  and  Koivisto  assumed  the  duties  of  the  office  until  the 


263 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

presidential  election  set  for  January  1982,  two  ye2irs  ahead  of  sched- 
ule. He  won  handily,  taking  43  percent  of  the  votes — from  the  high 
turnout  of  87  percent — and  145  of  the  electors.  With  the  support 
of  some  electors  pledged  to  the  SKDL  candidate,  he  won,  with  167 
ballots,  in  the  first  vote  of  the  electoral  college.  His  popularity 
remained  high  during  his  first  term,  and  he  easily  won  reelection 
in  1988. 

In  his  years  in  office,  Koivisto  has  adhered  to  the  Paasikivi- 
Kekkonen  Line,  renewing  in  1983  the  FCMA  treaty,  for  exam- 
ple. In  addition,  he  has  supported  the  traditional  policy  of  neu- 
trality, has  spoken  often  of  the  danger  of  the  arms  race,  and  has 
encouraged  international  trade.  One  innovation  he  introduced  was 
allowing  greater  policy  roles  to  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs, 
the  Eduskunta's  Foreign  Affairs  Committee,  and  other  institutions 
concerned  with  foreign  policy. 

On  the  domestic  front,  he  has  been  more  restrained  than  his 
predecessor.  He  has  preferred  to  let  day-to-day  politics  run  its 
course,  and  he  has  tended  to  see  the  presidency  as  an  office  from 
which  he  could  direct  the  nation's  attention  to  long-term  goals.  At 
times,  however,  delphic  presidential  statements  have  confused  the 
public  about  his  intentions.  On  occasion,  too,  he  has  been  harsh, 
berating  the  press  for  its  irresponsible  coverage  of  foreign  policy 
issues,  or  striking  down  politicians  he  thought  too  meddlesome  in 
international  affairs.  Overall,  Koivisto 's  presidency  has  marked 
a  coming  of  age  for  the  Finnish  polity,  an  emergence  from  the  harsh 
tutelage  of  the  Kekkonen  years,  and  the  increasing  resemblance 
of  Finnish  politiczd  life  to  that  of  other  successful  Western 
democracies. 

The  Parliamentary  Election  of  1983 

As  is  customary  in  Finland  after  a  presidential  election,  the 
government  resigned  after  Koivisto 's  victory  in  January  1982.  It 
was  re-formed  the  next  month  with  the  same  four-party  coalition 
(the  SDP,  Kesk,  the  SKDL,and  the  SFP)  and  many  of  the  same 
ministers,  with  veteran  SDP  politician  Kalevi  Sorsa  as  prime 
minister.  Two  devaluations  in  October  1982,  amounting  to  a  10 
percent  fall  in  the  value  of  the  Finnish  mark,  caused  complaints 
by  the  SKDL  that  low-income  groups  were  the  main  victims  of 
this  measure  designed  to  enhance  Finnish  competitiveness  abroad. 
The  cabinet  fell  at  the  end  of  the  year,  when  Sorsa  dissolved  it  after 
the  SKDL  ministers  refused  to  support  a  government  defense 
proposal.  Immediately  asked  by  the  president  to  form  a  new  govern- 
ment, Sorsa  did  so,  but  with  LKP  participation  and  without  the 
SKDL.  The  government's  slender  majority  of  103  votes  in  the 


264 


Mauno  Koivisto,  elected  president  of  Finland  in  1982  and  re-elected 

for  a  second  six-year  term  in  1988 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington 

Eduskunta  was  not  an  important  handicap,  for  new  elections  were 
scheduled  for  March  1983. 

The  election  was  widely  regarded  as  a  "protest  election"  because, 
contrary  to  expectations,  the  major  parties,  with  the  exception  of 
the  SDP,  did  not  do  well.  The  LKP  lost  all  its  seats  in  the 
Eduskunta,  while  the  SMP  more  than  doubled  its  seats,  and  for 
the  first  time  the  Greens  had  representatives  in  the  chamber  as  well. 
The  SMP's  success  was  credited,  at  least  in  part,  to  voter  distaste 
for  some  mainstream  parties  because  of  political  scandals;  no  sig- 
nificant policy  differences  emerged  in  the  election  campaign. 
Another  reason  for  the  SMP  gains  was  the  increasing  role  of  "float- 
ing votes"  not  bound  to  any  one  party.  The  SDP  won  fifty- seven 
parliamentary  seats,  the  greatest  number  since  before  the  war  and 
a  result  of  Koivisto 's  election  to  the  presidency. 

Seven  weeks  of  negotiations  led  to  the  formation  of  a  four-party 
coalition  composed  of  the  old  standbys,  the  SDP,  Kesk,  and  the 
SEP,  and,  for  the  first  time,  because  of  its  great  success,  the  SMP. 
The  protest  party  of  the  "forgotten  man,"  the  SMP  was  given  the 
portfolios  for  taxation  (second  minister  of  finance)  and  for  labor, 
with  the  aim  of  taming  it  through  ministerial  responsibility.  Because 
the  government,  led  by  the  SDP's  Sorsa,  had  the  support  of  only 
122  votes  out  of  200,  rather  than  the  134  needed  to  ensure  the 


265 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


passage  of  much  economic  legislation,  it  might  not  have  been 
expected  to  last  long.  It  distinguished  itself,  however,  by  being  the 
first  cabinet  since  the  war  to  serve  out  a  full  term.  Its  survival 
until  the  elections  of  March  1987  was  an  indication  of  a  newly  won 
stability  in  Finnish  politics. 

The  Sorsa  cabinet  stressed  the  continuation  of  traditional  Fin- 
nish foreign  policy,  the  expansion  of  trade  with  the  West  to  coun- 
ter what  some  saw  as  too  great  dependence  on  Soviet  trade,  and 
the  adoption  of  measures  to  reduce  inflation  (see  Role  of  Govern- 
ment, ch.  3).  The  economic  measures  of  the  Sorsa  government  were 
stringent  and  fisccdly  conservative.  Public  awareness  of  the  neces- 
sity of  a  small  exporting  nation's  remaining  competitive  allowed 
the  adoption  of  frugal  policies.  The  1984  biannual  incomes  policy 
arrangement  was  also  modest  in  its  scope.  The  rival  demands  for 
the  one  for  1986  were  less  so,  however,  and  President  Koivisto  had 
to  intervene  to  ease  hard  negotiations.  One  segment  of  the  work 
force,  civil  servants,  won  a  large  pay  increase  for  itself  after  a  seven- 
week  strike  in  the  spring  of  1986.  The  government  also  brought 
inflation  down  from  the  double-digit  levels  of  the  early  1980s,  but 
it  was  less  successful  in  lowering  unemployment,  which  remained 
steady  at  about  7  percent. 

Although  the  government  was  to  be  long-lived,  it  was  not 
free  of  tensions.  In  January  1984,  trouble  erupted  when  its  three 
nonsocialist  parties  made  public  a  list  of  nine  points  on  which 
they  disagreed  with  the  SDP.  The  issues  were  domestic  in  char- 
acter, and  they  centered  on  such  questions  as  the  methods  of 
calculation  and  payment  for  child-care  allowances,  the  advisa- 
bility of  nuclear  power  plant  construction,  wage  package  nego- 
tiation methods,  and  financial  measures  to  aid  farmers  and  small 
businessmen.  The  storm  caused  by  the  document  was  calmed 
by  the  political  skills  of  the  prime  minister  and  through  a  les- 
sened adamancy  on  the  part  of  Kesk. 

Despite  overall  agreement  on  many  major  issues  and  the 
dominance  of  consensus  politics  in  the  governing  of  the  coun- 
try, the  parties'  struggle  for  power  was  nevertheless  fierce. 
Attacks  on  the  SDP  by  its  coalition  partner,  Kesk,  during  1986 
were  seen  by  some  to  stem  from  Kesk's  desire  for  an  opening 
to  the  right  and  for  the  eventual  formation  of  a  center-right 
government  after  the  1987  elections.  The  attacks,  especially 
those  of  Foreign  Minister  Paavo  Vayrynen,  intensified  in  the 
late  summer.  The  young  Kesk  leader  particularly  denounced 
Sorsa' s  handling  of  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Sorsa  sucessfuUy 
counterattacked  in  the  fall,  which  forced  Vayrynen  to  stop  his 
campaign. 


266 


Government  and  Politics 

The  Parliamentary  Election  of  1987 

The  March  1987  elections  moved  the  country  somewhat  to  the 
right.  It  was  uncertain  how  far,  because  the  voter  participation 
rate — at  a  comparatively  low  75  percent,  5  percent  lower  than 
usual — hurt  the  left  more  than  the  right  and  had  a  varying  im- 
pact. The  KOK,  for  example,  increased  its  percentage  of  the  votes 
by  only  1  percent  and  saw  a  tiny  increase  in  absolute  terms,  yet 
it  gained  nine  seats  in  the  Eduskunta  and  almost  caught  up  with 
the  chamber's  largest  party,  the  SDP.  The  socialists'  take  dropped 
by  2.6  percent,  with  100,000  fewer  votes,  yet  they  lost  only  one 
seat  in  the  Eduskunta  because  of  the  way  their  votes  were  distributed 
across  the  country.  Kesk  garnered  the  same  portion  of  the  vote  that 
it  had  in  1983,  but  it  achieved  a  small  increase  in  the  actual  num- 
ber of  votes  and  gained  two  new  seats.  The  Greens,  who  had 
registered  a  significant  gain  in  the  communal  elections  of  October 
1984,  got  only  two  new  representatives,  far  fewer  than  expected, 
for  a  tot2il  of  four.  The  SKDL,  electoral  vehicle  of  the  reformist 
SKP,  lost  a  seat,  while  DEVA,  controlled  by  the  Stalinist  Com- 
mittee of  SKP  Organizations,  lost  six  of  the  ten  seats  it  had  con- 
trolled since  its  representatives  were  expelled  from  the  SKDL  in 
June  1986.  Weakened  perhaps  from  its  membership  in  the  long- 
lived  government,  the  SMP  lost  more  than  one-third  of  its  sup- 
port and  almost  half  of  its  seats.  Two  of  the  small  centrist  parties 
did  well:  the  SFP  gained  another  seat,  just  as  it  had  in  1983,  and 
the  SKL  secured  two  more  for  a  total  of  five. 

Faced  with  these  inconclusive  results,  negotiations  about  the 
shape  of  the  new  government  got  underway.  After  six  weeks  of  talks 
and  attempts  to  put  together  a  completely  nonsocialist  government, 
a  pathbreaking  combination  was  formed  that  included  conserva- 
tives and  socicdists  in  the  Council  of  State,  joined  by  the  dependa- 
ble and  successful  SFP  and  the  battered  and  desperate  SMP. 

The  new  government,  consisting  of  nine  centrist  and  conserva- 
tive and  eight  socialist  ministers  and  headed  by  the  KOK's  Harri 
Holkeri,  surprised  some  observers  because  a  nonsocialist  govern- 
ment was  possible  and  seemed  appropriate  given  the  election  results. 
The  outcome  angered  others,  who  contended  that  Koivisto  had  mis- 
used presidential  powers  when  he  brokered  a  government  that  had 
his  former  party  as  a  member  despite  its  considerable  electoral  loss- 
es. Koivisto  countered  that  he  had  behaved  properly  and  had  let 
the  parties  themselves  argue  out  a  workable  combination. 

One  explanation  for  the  unusued  government  was  that  ani- 
mosity against  the  Kesk  leader,  Vayrynen,  was  so  common  in  both 
the  SDP  2ind  the  KOK  that  neither  party  was  willing  to  form  a 


267 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

government  with  him.  Thus,  Kesk  was  deprived  of  its  traditional 
"hinge"  role.  Another  consideration  was  that  the  SDP  and  the 
KOK  were  not  so  much  at  odds  with  each  other  as  socialist  and 
conservative  parties  elsewhere  might  have  been.  Both  parties  had 
moved  toward  the  center,  and  they  were  in  agreement  about  most 
issues,  especially  about  the  need  to  reduce  the  agriculturad  subsi- 
dies that  had  always  been  defended  by  Kesk.  The  resulting  "red- 
blue"  government  had  as  progr2im  objectives  the  preservation  of 
the  social  welfare  system,  the  improvement  of  Finland's  competi- 
tive position  in  internationed  trade,  a  fundamental  reform  of  the 
tax  system,  and  adherence  to  the  Paasikivi-Kekkonen  Line  in  for- 
eign affairs.  The  SFP  fit  in  easily  with  this  program.  The  formerly 
rightist,  but  now  moderate,  SMP  was  included  because  it  strength- 
ened the  government  slightly  and  because  it  was  likely  to  be 
dependable,  because  it  had  no  other  place  to  go.  Koivisto  informed 
the  new  government  that  it  would  not  have  to  resign  after  the 
presidential  election  of  1988,  and  observers  expected  the  cabinet 
to  serve  its  full  term  until  the  1991  parliamentary  elections. 

The  Presidential  Election  of  1988 

The  presidential  election  held  on  January  3 1  and  February  1 , 
1988,  was  the  first  to  use  the  new  procedures  for  choosing  the 
nation's  highest  official  (see  Electoral  System,  this  ch.).  The  con- 
test's outcome,  the  re-election  of  Mauno  Koivisto,  surprised  no 
one,  yet  he  captured  a  smaller  portion  of  the  direct  vote  than 
expected — only  47.9  percent,  rather  than  the  60  to  70  percent  fore- 
cast by  opinion  polls  during  1987.  His  failure  to  win  more  than 
hcdf  of  the  direct,  or  popular,  vote  of  the  84  percent  turnout  meant 
that  Koivisto  could  claim  victory  only  after  he  had  the  support  of 
a  majority  of  the  301 -member  electoral  college.  This  he  achieved 
on  the  body's  second  ballot,  when  the  votes  of  45  of  the  63  electors 
pledged  to  the  KOK  candidate.  Prime  Minister  Hairri  Holkeri,  were 
added  to  those  of  the  144  electors  he  had  won  on  his  own.  Koivisto 's 
inability  to  win  the  presidency  directly  was  caused  by  an  upsurge 
of  support  in  the  final  weeks  of  the  campaign  for  his  stronger  rivals, 
Kesk's  Paavo  Vayrynen  and  the  KOK's  Holkeri — who  got  20.1 
and  18.1  percent  of  the  vote  respectively,  and  Kalevi  Kivisto,  the 
candidate  of  voters  linked  to  the  SKDL  and  the  Greens,  who  got 
10.4  percent.  The  strong  finish  of  Vayrynen  and  Kivisto  was 
regarded  by  some  as  a  vote  against  the  KOK-SDP  coalition  formed 
after  the  March  1987  parliamentary  election.  The  1.4  percent  gar- 
nered by  the  DEVA  candidate,  Jouko  Kajanoja,  indicated  the  mar- 
ginal role  that  the  Stgdinist  wing  of  the  communist  movement  played 
in  the  country's  political  life. 


268 


Government  and  Politics 


The  presidential  campaign  did  not  center,  to  any  significant 
degree,  on  issues,  but  on  the  candidates  themselves;  Vayrynen  and 
Holkeri  both  clearly  wanted  to  position  themselves  well  for  the 
presidential  election  of  1994.  Neither  had  any  hope  of  defeating 
the  ever-popular  Koivisto  in  1988,  and  it  was  widely  assumed  that 
he  would  not  again  seek  reelection.  Vayrynen  was  seen  as  the  win- 
ner of  this  race  for  position,  in  that  he  had  come  from  far  behind 
in  the  polls,  had  easily  beaten  Koivisto  in  the  northern  provinces, 
had  found  good  support  elsewhere — except  in  the  Helsinki  area, 
and  had  cemented  his  leadership  role  in  his  own  party.  His  strong 
party  base  and  his  ability  to  attract  conservatives  dissatified  with 
their  party's  zdliance  with  the  socialists,  combined  with  his  exten- 
sive ministerial  experience,  made  the  relatively  young  Vayrynen 
Finland's  foremost  opposition  politician.  His  strong  finish,  and  the 
lack  of  any  SDP  politician  of  Koivisto 's  personad  stature  and 
popularity,  guaranteed  Kesk  continued  significance  in  the  coun- 
try's political  life  even  when  in  opposition,  and  were  perhaps  signs 
that  the  dominance  of  post-industrial  southern  Finland  over  the 
country  as  a  whole  might  only  be  temporary. 

Mass  Media 

Finland's  first  newspaper,  the  Swedish-language  Tidningar  Utgifne 
A/Et  Sdllskap  i  Abo,  was  established  in  1771  in  Turku.  A  Finnish- 
language  journal,  Suomenkieliset  Tieto-Sanomat,  was  created  in  the 
same  town  in  1775.  Neither  paper  survived  long,  however,  and 
it  was  not  until  the  next  century  that  regularly  published  newspapers 
appeared  in  Finland.  Still  in  existence  today  are  Abo  Underrdttelser, 
founded  in  Turku  in  1824,  and  Uusi  Suomi,  launched  in  Helsinki 
in  1847  (see  table  21,  Appendix  A). 

The  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century  saw  the  appearance  of 
many  newspapers.  All  the  political  parties  formed  in  these  years 
and  in  the  early  twentieth  century  had  their  own  newspapers,  and, 
as  a  result,  most  Finnish  papers  were  partisan  until  after  World 
War  II.  After  independence  in  1917,  there  was  another  upsurge 
in  the  number  of  newspapers  published;  a  high  point,  never  since 
surpassed,  was  reached  in  1930  when  Finns  could  choose  from  123 
newspapers,  each  published  at  least  three  times  a  week.  By  1985 
there  were  ninety-eight  such  papers,  a  figure  that  has  remained 
fairly  constant  since  the  early  1960s.  Totad  circulation  of  papers 
of  this  type,  twelve  of  which  were  in  Swedish,  amounted  to  about 
three  million  by  the  mid-1980s.  In  addition,  there  were  about  160 
papers  that  appeared  once  or  twice  a  week.  One  United  Nations 
(UN)  study  ranked  Finland  fourth  in  the  world  for  per  capita  cir- 
culation, and  surveys  have  found  that  over  90  percent  of  Finns 


269 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

read  papers  regularly,  60  percent  of  Finns  viewing  them  as  the  most 
useful  source  of  information. 

Finns  preferred  to  have  their  papers  delivered  to  their  homes 
in  the  early  morning,  and  for  this  reason  there  were  only  two  eve- 
ning papers  in  the  country,  Ilta-Sanomat  and  Iltalehti,  both  printed 
in  Helsinki.  Another  reason  for  low  newsstand  sales  in  Finland  was 
that  no  taxes  were  levied  on  newspapers  and  magazines  received 
via  subscription. 

Most  localities  were  served  by  only  one  newspaper,  but  by  the 
mid-1980s  Helsinki  had  about  a  dozen,  and  its  newspapers,  which 
constituted  only  one-eighth  of  the  country's  total,  accounted  for 
one-third  of  national  circulation.  Seven  of  the  Helsinki  papers  were 
among  the  twelve  largest  Finnish  papers.  Although  many  of  Fin- 
land's papers  were  published  in  Helsinki,  there  was  little  concen- 
tration of  press  ownership,  and  there  were  no  dominant  newspaper 
chains,  with  the  possible  exception  of  the  firm  Sanoma  that  owned 
the  two  papers  with  the  largest  circulation,  Helsingin  Sanomat  and 
Ilta-Sanomat. 

In  contrast  to  the  other  Nordic  countries,  the  number  of 
newspapers  in  Finland  has  remained  fairly  constant,  and  there  was 
even  a  slight  upturn  in  the  1980s.  This  steadiness  was  caused,  at 
least  partly,  by  the  government  program  of  general  and  selective 
support.  General  support  was  intended  for  the  press  as  a  whole, 
magazines  included;  it  involved  not  taxing  subscriptions  and 
essential  materials,  such  as  newsprint,  and  arranging  for  low  postal 
rates.  Selective  support,  designed  to  guarantee  the  survival  of  the 
party  press,  consisted  of  partial  subsidies  for  distribution  and 
telecommunications  costs  and  direct  lump-sum  payments  to  papers 
in  accordance  with  the  number  of  representatives  their  parties  had 
in  the  Eduskunta. 

Despite  these  efforts  to  encourage  a  varied  party  press,  the  num- 
ber of  independent  papers  rose  sharply  after  World  War  II, 
increasing  from  38  percent  in  1962  to  64  percent  in  1985.  The  num- 
ber of  nonsocialist  party  papers  decreased  most,  but  papers  of  this 
type  still  had  more  than  twice  the  circulation  of  socialist  papers. 

Most  Finnish  newspapers  were  served  by  the  country's  principal 
news  agency,  the  Finnish  News  Agency  (Suomen  Tietotoimisto — 
STT),  which  was  owned  by  the  leading  newspapers  and  the  state- 
run  Finnish  Broadcasting  Company  (Yleisradio — YLE).  STT  was 
connected  to  many  of  the  world's  news  agencies,  and  it  had  an 
extensive  network  of  domestic  correspondents.  Some  newspapers, 
however,  had  direct  contacts  with  foreign  news  agencies.  There 
were  also  agencies,  run  by  political  parties,  that  supplied  subscrib- 
ers with  political  news  and  articles.  Agencies  of  this  type  were 


270 


Government  and  Politics 


Kesk's  Uutiskeskus  (UK),  the  KOK's  Lehdiston  Sanomapalvelu 
(LSP),  the  SDP's  Tyovaen  Sanomalehtien  Tietotoimisto  (TST), 
the  SKDL's  Demokraattinen  Lehtipalvelu  (DLP),  and  the  SFP's 
Svensk  Presstjanst  (SPT). 

By  the  mid-1980s,  there  were  about  1 ,200  magazines  being  pub- 
lished regulcirly,  printing  a  total  of  about  20  million  copies  a  year. 
The  most  popular  subscription  magazine  in  the  mid-1980s  was  Me, 
pubHshed  biweekly  in  Helsinki  for  Finnish  consumer  societies,  fol- 
lowed by  the  Finnish  version  of  Reader's  Digest  and  by  numerous 
family  and  general  interest  magcizines.  The  magazines  with  the  larg- 
est printings  were  those  distributed  free  at  banks,  retail  stores,  and 
other  businesses. 

Subscription  magazines,  like  newspapers,  enjoyed  general  sup- 
port from  the  government  in  the  form  of  lower  taxes  and  postal 
rates.  In  the  late  1970s,  selective  government  support  was  in- 
troduced to  assist  those  magazines  which,  without  the  aim  of  finan- 
cial gain,  sought  to  inform  the  public  about  cultural,  scientific, 
religious,  and  social  concerns.  By  the  mid-1980s,  several  dozen  of 
these  so-called  ''magazines  of  opinion"  were  receiving  state  aid. 

Finland's  state  radio  and  television  company,  the  YLE,  was 
founded  in  1926,  and  it  began  television  broadcasting  in  1958.  It 
was  a  stock  company,  with  99.2  percent  of  its  stock  owned  by  the 
government  and  the  remainder  owned  by  fifty- seven  stockholders. 
As  a  stock  company,  it  was  independent  of  the  state  budget.  It  did 
not  monopolize  the  airwaves,  but  sold  a  portion  of  its  broadcast- 
ing time,  a  maximum  of  18  percent,  to  a  private  television  com- 
pany, Mainos-TV-Reklam  (MTV).  This  arrangement  had  been 
in  effect  since  1958,  when  the  YLE  first  began  television  transmis- 
sions. Beginning  in  1973,  Finland  also  had  cable  television,  cen- 
tered in  the  major  urban  areas,  which  by  the  mid-1980s  reached 
about  100,000  homes.  It  was  expected  that  Finns  and  the  residents 
of  the  other  Nordic  countries  would  be  able  to  see  each  other's  tele- 
vision broadcasts  via  satellite  sometime  in  the  early  1990s. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  the  YLE  employed  nearly  5,000  persons;  each 
year  it  broadcast  about  5,000  hours  of  television  programming — 
1,000  hours  of  which  was  rented  by  MTV.  Since  late  1986,  the 
YLE's  television  division  has  consisted  of  three  channels  (TV  1, 
TV  2,  and  TV  3).  The  YLE  produced  about  1,400  hours  of 
television  itself;  the  remaining  time  was  filled  by  programs  pur- 
chased abroad.  Swedish-language  programming  amounted  to  a 
little  more  than  500  hours,  about  60  percent  of  which  appeared 
on  TV  1. 

In  the  mid-1980s,  about  20  percent  of  television  broadcast  time 
was  devoted  to  news  and  current  events,  another  20  percent  to 


271 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

documentaries,  the  same  amount  again  to  sports  and  light  enter- 
tainment, 16  percent  to  television  serials,  and  12  percent  to  films. 
Imported  programs  were  shown  in  their  original  languages  with 
subtitles.  The  YLE  had  coproduction  arrangements  with  many  for- 
eign companies,  mainly  those  of  Eastern  Europe,  Western  Europe, 
and  the  United  States.  Finns,  81  percent  of  them  on  a  daily  basis, 
watched  an  average  of  two  hours  of  television  a  day;  28  percent 
held  it  to  be  their  most  important  source  of  information. 

The  YLE's  radio  division  broadcast  about  21,000  hours  annu- 
ally and  consisted  of  three  sections — Network  1,  Network  2,  and 
the  Swedish  Program.  Network  2  broadcast  around  the  clock.  The 
other  two  stations  broadcast  from  early  in  the  morning  until  airound 
midnight.  Somewhat  under  half  of  these  radio  programs  were 
broadcast  on  a  regional  or  local  level  from  the  company's  nine  local 
stations,  eight  of  which  sent  Finnish-language  progranmiing.  About 
20  percent  of  radio  programming  was  devoted  to  news  and  cur- 
rent events,  another  20  percent  to  general  cultural  and  public  service 
programs,  and  40  percent  to  all  varieties  of  music.  In  addition  to 
its  national  broadcasts,  each  year  the  company  transmitted  about 
13,500  hours — in  Finnish  and  in  other  languages — to  listeners, 
abroad.  Private  radio  stations  first  appeared  in  1985,  and  they 
existed  in  a  score  of  municipalities  by  the  late  1980s.  Firms  listened 
to  the  radio  an  average  of  two  hours  daily,  and  70  percent  of  them 
listened  every  day.  Twenty- three  percent  of  the  population  held 
the  medium  to  be  their  most  important  source  of  information. 

The  YLE,  having  been  granted  its  broadcasting  concession  by 
the  government,  was  obliged  to  present  progr2imming  that  was  'Tac- 
tual and  fair,"  provided  wholesome  entertainment,  strengthened 
popular  education,  and  infringed  on  no  one's  rights.  A  commit- 
tee, appointed  in  1979  to  study  new  legislation  for  radio  and  tele- 
vision broadcasting,  concluded  in  1984  that  the  YLE's  programs 
should  be  marked  by  truthfulness,  pluralism,  and  relevance  to  the 
lives  of  the  viewers,  and  that  it  should  further  the  basic  rights  and 
values  of  the  country's  citizens.  The  Administrative  Council,  the 
members  of  which  were  appointed  by  the  Eduskunta  in  accordance 
with  each  party's  parliamentary  strength,  was  responsible  for  realiz- 
ing these  objectives.  Three  program  councils,  the  members  of  which 
were  appointed  by  the  Administrative  Council  and  according  to 
the  political  composition  of  the  Eduskunta,  were  involved  in  decid- 
ing what  was  to  be  broadcast.  The  upper  management  of  the  YLE 
was  also  somewhat  politicized  in  the  belief  that  this  would  help  to 
guarantee  that  all  viewpoints  were  adequately  aired  during  broad- 
casting time.  MTV's  programming,  including  the  news  broadcasts 
that  it  began  in  1981,  was  also  supervised  by  the  councils.  This 


272 


Government  and  Politics 


system  of  control,  while  occasionally  subject  to  heavy-handed  lapses 
of  judgement,  was  generally  conceded  to  have  brought  about 
programming  that  broadly  mirrored  the  country's  political  culture 
as  a  whole. 

Article  10  of  the  Constitution  Act  of  1919  guarantees  freedom 
of  speech  and  "the  right  of  printing  and  publishing  writing  and 
pictorial  presentations  without  prior  interference  by  anyone." 
International  surveys  of  Finnish  journalism  have  found  it  to  be  of 
a  high  standard  and  wholly  comparable  with  that  of  other  Western 
nations.  The  desire  for  a  press  reflecting  all  currents  of  Finnish 
political  life  has  been  given  concrete  expression  in  government 
financial  support  for  political  newspapers  and  journals  of  opinion. 
Legislation  from  1966  protected  the  confidentiality  of  sources,  in 
that  it  allowed  journalists  to  refuse  to  reveal  the  identity  of  sources 
unless  such  disclosure  would  solve  a  serious  crime,  i.e.,  one  call- 
ing for  a  sentence  of  six  or  more  years.  In  1971  this  protection  was 
extended  to  television  journalists  as  well. 

Information  was  readily  available  in  Finland.  Ten  major  pub- 
lishing firms,  two  of  them  specializing  in  Swedish-language  books, 
and  numerous  smaller  houses  published  some  8,000  new  titles  each 
year.  This  was  an  extraordinary  figure  for  a  small  country,  espe- 
cially one  the  languages  of  which  were  not  widely  known  abroad. 
Finns  were  able  to  buy  books  published  anywhere  in  the  world, 
and  local  firms  that  published  the  samizdat,  or  underground,  liter- 
ature from  the  Soviet  Union  allowed  Finns  to  be  well  acquainted 
with  the  opposition  groups  of  their  eastern  neighbor. 

According  to  the  distinguished  Finnish  journalist  and  former 
diplomat.  Max  Jakobson,  Finnish  journalism  did  not  possess  an 
adversarial  spirit  and  a  tradition  of  aggressive  reporting  to  the  same 
degree  as  the  American  press.  Also  on  occasion  it  was  noted  that 
the  politicization  of  YLE  broadcasting  meant  that  television  jour- 
nalists sometimes  remembered  the  political  party  from  which  they 
came  better  than  they  did  their  duty  to  inform  the  public  objec- 
tively. In  consonance  with  the  tone  of  Finnish  foreign  policy,  press 
and  television  criticism  of  the  superpowers'  foreign  policies  was 
muted  to  some  degree.  Finnish  press  discussions  of  the  failures  of 
the  Soviet  Union  could  be  frank,  but  they  were  couched  in  gentler 
tones  than  was  true  in  some  other  countries. 

A  reminder  of  the  sensitive  years  just  after  World  War  II,  when 
Finland's  survival  as  an  independent  nation  was  not  assured,  was 
a  1948  addition  to  the  Penal  Code  that  threatened  a  prison  term 
of  up  to  two  years  for  anyone  who  damaged  Finnish  relations  with 
a  foreign  power  by  means  of  defamatory  journalism.  Serious  as 


273 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

this  penalty  appeared,  only  the  president  could  decide  if  a  jour- 
nalist seen  guilty  of  such  defamation  should  be  prosecuted.  Although 
not  applied  for  decades,  the  clause  continued  to  be  an  embarrass- 
ment for  Finns.  Government  officials,  when  called  upon  to  com- 
ment on  the  clause,  stressed  the  value  of  a  free  press  and  the  lack 
of  censorship,  noted  Finland's  good  relations  with  all  countries, 
acknowledged  that  there  had  been  in  the  past  some  "self- 
censorship"  of  the  press  with  regard  to  the  Soviet  Union,  but 
pointed  out  that  the  clause  had  not  been  applied  for  decades.  Since 
World  War  II,  leading  Finnish  politicians  have  also  occasionally 
exhorted  the  press  to  be  more  responsible  in  its  reporting  on  for- 
eign policy  issues;  there  were  several  such  calls  by  Koivisto  in  his 
first  years  in  office.  Such  political  tutelage  was  by  the  mid-1980s, 
however,  no  longer  viewed  as  appropriate  for  a  modem  democratic 
state. 

Finnish  media  were  also  subject  to  some  popular  controls.  The 
Press  Law  of  1 9 1 9  gave  the  right  of  correction  to  anyone  who  held 
that  material  printed  about  him  in  a  periodical  was  incorrect  or 
offensive.  The  publication  was  obliged  to  grant  the  injured  party 
an  equal  amount  of  space  within  two  days  after  receipt  of  the  state- 
ment. Failure  to  do  so  could  result  in  a  fine.  Finns  could  also  turn 
to  the  Council  for  Mass  Media  Qulkisen  Sanan  Neuvosto — ^JSN), 
which  was  founded  in  1968  to  promote  journalistic  ethics.  This  body 
examined  each  complaint  submitted  to  it  and  decided  on  its  merits. 
Between  1969  and  1978,  the  council  received  several  hundred  quer- 
ies; it  found  about  a  quarter  of  them  justified  and  recommended 
to  the  criticized  journal  or  station  that  it  issue  an  unedited  rejoinder 
from  the  injured  party. 

Films  were  subject  to  censorship  in  Finland  according  to  a  law 
from  1965  that  had  been  enacted  by  the  elaborate  procedure  re- 
quired for  legislation  seen  as  being  an  exception  to  the  Constitu- 
tion. In  this  case,  there  was  an  exceptional  curtailment  of  the 
constitutional  right  of  freedom  of  information.  The  law  dealt  only 
with  films  shown  for  commercial  purposes,  and  it  forbade  those 
that  offended  good  morals,  were  brutalizing  or  injurious  to  men- 
tal health,  endangered  public  order  and  the  nation's  defense,  or 
harmed  Finland's  relations  with  other  countries.  The  Film  Cen- 
sorship Board  was  set  up  to  administer  the  law,  and  its  decisions 
could  be  appealed  up  to  the  Supreme  Administrative  Court.  Of 
2,688  films  reviewed  between  1972  and  1983,  some  227  were  for- 
bidden in  their  entirety.  Of  these,  nearly  all  were  rejected  for  rea- 
sons of  morality  or  potential  danger  to  mentsd  health,  and  2  percent 
because  they  could  hurt  Finland's  external  relations.  The  most  noted 
of  these  films  was  the  British- Norwegian  coproduction,  "One  Day 


274 


Government  and  Politics 


in  the  Life  of  Ivan  Denisovich,"  based  on  the  eponymous  novel 
by  Aleksandr  Solzhenitsyn.  Several  films  from  the  German 
Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany)  were  banned  after  having 
been  judged  potentially  offensive  to  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany). 

Foreign  Relations 

Finnish  foreign  policy  is  aimed  at  preserving  the  nation's  politi- 
cal and  territori2il  integrity  and  safeguarding  the  continuity  of  its 
national  existence.  Geographical  reality — having  the  Soviet  Union 
as  a  neighbor,  and  defeat  in  World  War  II  led  Finland  to  adopt 
a  postwar  national  security  policy  of  maintaining  its  freedom  of 
action  by  dissociating  itself  from  the  conflicts  of  major  powers.  The 
main  feature  of  contemporary  Finnish  policy,  therefore,  is  neu- 
trality. As  the  offici2d  political  doctrine,  nonadignment  has  helped 
in  the  establishment  of  friendly  relations  with  other  countries  regard- 
less of  their  political  systems. 

Within  the  framework  of  Finnish  neutrality,  there  are  three 
important  policy  orientations:  a  special  relationship  with  the  Soviet 
Union;  a  traditional  policy  of  close  collaboration  with  the  other 
Nordic  countries — Sweden,  Norway,  Denmark,  and  Iceland;  and 
an  active  policy  as  a  member  of  the  UN. 

Neutrality 

Finland,  independent  only  since  1917,  does  not  have  a  long  tra- 
dition of  neutrality.  In  the  interwar  period,  it  declared  itself  neu- 
tral, but  its  foreign  policy  was  not  neutral  enough  to  satisfy  the 
security  concerns  of  the  Soviet  Union,  and  Finland  was  drawn  into 
World  War  II.  The  years  immediately  after  the  war  were  taken 
up  by  the  country's  struggle  to  survive  as  an  independent  nation. 
The  treaties  of  1947  and  1948,  which  confirmed  the  existence  of 
a  Soviet  military  base  on  Finnish  territory  and  created  a  defensive 
alliance  with  the  Soviet  Union,  seemed  to  preclude  Finnish  neu- 
trality (see  The  Cold  War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948,  ch.  1). 

The  Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance 
(FCMA)  of  1948  mentioned  in  its  preamble,  however,  Finland's 
desire  to  remain  outside  the  conflicts  of  the  great  powers  and  to 
maintain  peace  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  UN.  A  first 
example  of  the  Finnish  policy  of  avoiding  entanglements  in  super- 
power disputes  was  the  decision  in  early  1948  not  to  participate 
in  the  European  Recovery  Program,  also  known  as  the  Marshall 
Plan.  Finnish  rejection  of  the  much-needed  aid  was  caused  by  Soviet 
contentions  that  the  program  was  an  effort  on  the  part  of  the  United 
States  to  divide  Europe  into  two  camps. 


275 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  late  1940s,  Finland  joined  the  General  Agreement  on 
Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT — see  Glossary)  and  the  World  Bank  (see 
Glossary),  participating  in  their  economic  programs,  but  avoid- 
ing any  political  implications  of  membership  that  could  be  seen 
by  the  Soviets  to  link  the  country  to  the  West.  Finland  also  stayed 
out  of  the  discussions  of  the  period  about  the  formation  of  a  Nor- 
dic defense  union. 

During  these  early  years  after  World  War  II,  there  were  few  offi- 
cial Finnish  statements  about  neutrality,  but  in  a  speech  in  1952 
Prime  Minister  Kekkonen  held  that  the  FCMA  treaty  presupposed 
a  kind  of  neutrality  for  his  country.  In  1955  a  major  impediment 
to  Finnish  neutrality  was  removed  by  the  closing  of  the  Soviet  mili- 
tary base  located  near  Helsinki,  and  in  the  following  years  leading 
Soviet  officials  praised  the  neutrality  of  their  neighbor.  In  1955, 
too,  Finland  was  able  to  join  the  UN  and  the  Nordic  Council,  acts 
that  reduced  its  isolation  and  brought  it  more  fully  into  the  com- 
munity of  nations. 

By  the  early  1960s,  Finnish  neutrality  was  recognized  by  both 
the  West  and  the  East,  and  the  country  entered  a  more  confident 
period  of  international  relations  when  it  began  practicing  what  came 
to  be  officially  termed  an  active  and  peaceful  policy  of  neutrality. 
Finland  participated  in  local  and  in  global  initiatives  aimed  at  creat- 
ing conditions  that  allowed  nations  to  avoid  violence  in  their  rela- 
tions with  one  another.  As  President  Kekkonen  noted  in  1965  in 
an  often-quoted  speech,  Finland  could  "only  maintain  its  neutrality 
on  the  condition  that  peace  is  preserved  in  Europe." 

An  essential  element  of  Finland's  active  neutrality  policy  was 
the  concept  of  a  Nordic  Nuclear-Weapons-Free  Zone  (Nordic 
NWFZ),  first  introduced  by  Kekkonen  in  May  1963  against  the 
background  of  a  Europe  increasingly  armed  with  nuclear  weapons. 
The  Finnish  president  proposed  the  creation  of  a  zone  consisting 
of  Finl2ind,  Sweden,  Norway,  Denmark,  and  Icelcind.  Their  de  facto 
nuclear-weapons-free  status  was  to  be  formalized  by  the  creation 
of  a  Nordic  NWFZ  that  would  remove  them  somewhat  from  the 
strategic  pl2ins  of  the  superpowers.  The  zone  idea  was  based  on 
the  supposition  that,  as  these  countries  had  no  nuclear  weapons 
in  their  territories,  they  might  avoid  nuclear  attacks  from  either 
of  the  two  alliances,  whereas  the  presence  of  nuclear  weapons  would 
certainly  invite  such  attacks. 

The  Nordic  NWFZ  idea  was  not  realized  at  the  time  it  was  ini- 
tiadly  proposed.  A  major  impediment  was  the  membership  of  Den- 
mark and  Norway  in  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO)  and  hence  their  pledge  to  consider  the  deployment  of 
nuclear  weapons  on  their  territories  in  a  time  of  crisis.  Despite  its 


276 


President  Koivisto  with  President  Ronald  Reagan  at  the  White  House, 

September  1983 
Courtesy  The  White  House  (Pete  Souza) 

lack  of  success,  the  zone  proposal  remained  part  of  Finnish  for- 
eign policy,  and  in  1978  it  was  reintroduced  in  an  altered  form 
in  the  light  of  new  developments  in  weapons  technology.  In  Kek- 
konen's  opinion,  the  cruise  missile  made  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons 
in  war  more  likely.  His  new  Nordic  NWFZ  proposal  contained 
the  concept  of  a  negative  security  guarantee,  according  to  which 
the  superpowers  would  bind  themselves  to  refrain  from  attacking 
with  nuclear  weapons  those  countries  belonging  to  the  zone. 

The  zone  proposEd  has  since  become  a  permanent  part  of  secu- 
rity discussions  in  Nordic  Europe,  with  support  from  a  variety  of 
quarters.  President  Koivisto  declared  his  firm  support  for  the  zone 
propos2d  in  a  speech  at  the  UN  in  1983,  and  in  1985  a  Nordic 
parliamentary  group  convened  in  Copenhagen  to  discuss  the  idea 
and  to  set  up  a  commission  to  study  it. 

In  addition  to  the  problem  of  Danish  and  Norwegian  member- 
ship in  the  Atlantic  Alliance,  other  problems  continued  to  prevent 
the  zone's  realization.  A  central  question  was  how,  and  to  what 
extent,  the  Baltic  and  Barents  seas  and  the  adjacent  2ireas  of  the 
Soviet  Union  would  be  included.  The  Soviet  Union,  the  only  power 
of  northern  Europe  that  had  nuclear  weapons  in  its  arsenal,  always 
welcomed  the  zone  proposal  but  left  its  participation  in  the  zone 
uncertain.  Finnish  officials  seemed  content  to  hold  continued  talks 


277 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

about  the  zone.  Foreign  affairs  specialists  occasionally  commented 
that  Helsinki  was  more  interested  in  using  discussion  of  a  Nordic 
NWFZ  as  a  means  of  emphasizing  the  existing  stability  of  north- 
ern Europe  than  in  the  realization  of  such  a  zone. 

Another  core  element  of  Finland's  active  policy  of  neutrality  was 
the  country's  participation  in  arms  control  and  disarmament 
initiatives.  In  1963  Finland  signed  the  Nuclear  Test  Ban  Treaty, 
prohibiting  nucleair  testing  underwater,  above  ground,  and  in  outer 
space;  and  in  1968  it  approved  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  It  was  the  first  country  to  form  an  agree- 
ment with  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  concerning  the 
peaceful  use  of  nucle2ir  power.  In  1971  Finland  signed  the  treaty 
banning  the  placement  of  nuclear  weapons  on  the  world's  seabed, 
and  in  1975  it  joined  in  the  prohibition  of  the  development,  produc- 
tion, and  stockpiling  of  biological  weapons.  Since  the  early  1970s, 
Finnish  scientists  have  been  developing  technology  for  the  detec- 
tion of  chemical  weapons,  and  since  the  mid-1970s,  they  have  been 
engaged  in  perfecting  a  global  seismic  verification  station  system. 

Helsinki  was  the  site  for  some  of  the  Strategic  Arms  Limitation 
Talks  (SALT),  and  in  1973  and  1975  Finland  was  the  driving  force 
behind  the  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(CSCE)  and  the  host  of  its  first  and  third  meetings.  The  signing 
of  the  Final  Act  of  the  CSCE  in  Helsinki  in  1975  was  the  high  point 
of  the  country's  policy  of  active  neutrality.  The  signed  document 
recognized  the  legitimacy  of  neutrality  as  a  foreign  policy,  a  point 
demonstrated  by  Finland's  hosting  the  conference.  The  country 
has  continued  to  work  as  a  member  of  the  neutral  and  nonaligned 
group  at  later  CSCE  meetings,  where  the  emphasis  has  been  on 
the  formation  of  confidence-building  and  security-building  mea- 
sures (CSBM).  The  fourth  CSCE  meeting  was  scheduled  to  take 
place  in  Helsinki  in  the  spring  of  1992. 

Soviet  Union 

Two  hard-fought  wars,  ending  in  defeat  and  in  the  loss  of  about 
one-tenth  of  Finland's  land  area,  convinced  some  leading  Finnish 
politicians  by  the  end  of  World  War  II  that  the  interwsir  policy  of 
neutral  distance  from  the  Soviet  Union  had  been  mistaken  and  must 
be  abandoned  if  the  country  were  to  survive  as  an  independent 
nation  (see  The  Cold  War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948,  ch.  1).  Juho 
Paasikivi,  Finland's  most  prominent  conservative  politician  and 
its  president  from  1946  to  1956,  came  to  believe  that  Finnish  for- 
eign policy  must  center  on  convincing  Soviet  leaders  that  his  country 
accepted,  as  legitimate,  Soviet  desires  for  a  secure  northwestern 


278 


Government  and  Politics 


border  and  that  there  was  no  reason  to  fear  an  attack  from,  or 
through,  Finland. 

The  prehminary  peace  treaty  of  1944,  which  ended  the  Con- 
tinuation War,  and  the  Treaty  of  Paris  of  1947,  which  regulated 
the  size  and  the  quality  of  Finland's  armed  forces,  served  to  pro- 
vide the  Soviets  with  a  strategically  secure  area  for  the  protection 
of  Leningrad  and  Murmansk.  The  deterioration  of  superpower 
relations,  however,  led  the  Soviets  to  desire  a  firmer  border  with 
the  gradually  emerging  Western  bloc.  In  February  1948,  Finnish 
authorities  were  notified  by  Soviet  officials  that  Finland  should  sign 
a  mutual  assistance  treaty  with  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  treaty  that  Finnish  and  Soviet  negotiators  worked  out  and 
signed  in  April  1 948  differed  from  those  the  Soviets  had  conclud- 
ed with  Hungary  and  Romania.  Unlike  those  countries,  Finland 
was  not  made  part  of  the  Soviet  military  alliance,  but  was  obliged 
only  to  defend  its  own  territory  if  attacked  by  Germany  or  by  coun- 
tries allied  with  that  country,  or  if  the  Soviet  Union  were  attacked 
by  these  powers  through  Finnish  territory.  In  addition,  consulta- 
tions between  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union  were  required  if  the 
threat  of  such  an  attack  were  established.  According  to  the  FCMA 
treaty,  Finland  was  not  bound  to  aid  the  Soviet  Union  if  that  coun- 
try were  attacked  elsewhere,  and  the  consultations  were  to  be  be- 
tween sovereign  states,  not  between  military  allies.  Just  what 
constituted  a  military  threat  was  not  specified,  but  the  right  of  the 
Finns  to  discuss  the  posited  threat  and  how  it  should  be  met,  that 
is,  to  what  extent  military  assistance  would  be  required,  allowed 
Finnish  officials  room  for  maneuver  and  deprived  the  treaty  of  an 
automatic  character. 

Since  its  signing,  the  treaty  has  continued  to  be  the  cornerstone 
of  Finnish  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union;  that  both  found  it  satis- 
factory was  seen  in  its  renewail  and  extension  in  1955,  1970,  and 
1983.  For  the  Soviet  Union,  the  FCMA  treaty  meant  greater  secu- 
rity for  the  strategically  vital  areas  of  Leningrad  cind  the  Kola  Penin- 
sula. Any  attack  on  these  areas  through  Finland  would  meet  first 
with  Finnish  resistance,  which  many  observers  believed  would  slow 
an  offensive  appreciably.  The  prohibition  of  Finnish  member- 
ship in  an  alliance  directed  against  the  Soviet  Union  meant  hostile 
forces  could  not  be  stationed  within  Finland,  close  to  vital  Soviet 
installations. 

Finland's  neutral  status  had  an  effect  on  the  Nordic  area  as  a 
whole.  Its  special  relationship  with  the  Soviet  Union  reduced  pres- 
sure on  Sweden  and  eased  that  country's  burden  of  maintaining 
its  traditional  neutrality.  The  consequent  lowering  of  tensions  in 
the  region  allowed  Norway  and  Denmark  NATO  membership, 


279 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

although  each  of  these  countries  estabUshed  certain  restrictions  on 
the  stationing  of  foreign  troops  and  the  deployment  of  nuclear 
weapons  on  their  soil.  The  interdependence  of  security  postures 
in  northern  Europe,  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  Nordic  Balance, 
has  removed  the  region  somewhat  from  the  vagaries  of  the  Cold 
War  over  the  last  few  decades.  The  Soviets  have  closely  monitored 
developments  in  the  area,  but  their  basic  satisfaction  with  the  secu- 
rity situation  that  has  prevailed  there  has  zdlowed  Finland  to  sur- 
vive as  an  independent  country,  bound  to  some  degree  to  the  Soviet 
Union  in  defense  matters,  but  able  to  maintain  its  democratic 
institutions  and  its  membership  in  the  Western  community  of 
nations. 

During  the  years  immediately  following  the  signing  of  the  FCMA 
treaty,  the  Finns  complied  with  their  obligation  to  pay  reparations 
to  the  Soviet  Union;  the  last  payment  was  made  in  1952.  The 
preceding  year  the  two  countries  had  signed  a  treaty  setting  up  trade 
between  them  on  the  basis  of  a  barter  arrangement,  which  has  been 
renewed  every  five  years  since  then.  In  1954  Finland  became  the 
first  capitalist  country  to  sign  a  scientific  and  technical  agreement 
with  the  Soviet  Union. 

Despite  the  provisions  of  Article  6  of  the  FCMA  treaty,  which 
enjoined  each  contracting  party  from  interfering  in  the  domestic 
affairs  of  the  other,  Soviet  comments  on  Finnish  domestic  politics 
were  often  quite  harsh.  Soviet  attitudes  toward  Finland  softened, 
however,  with  the  death  of  Joseph  Stalin  and  the  advent  of  better 
relations  with  the  Western  powers  in  the  mid-1950s;  consequent- 
ly, no  objections  were  raised  to  the  1955  decisions  to  admit  Fin- 
land to  the  Nordic  Council  and  to  the  UN  (see  Nordic  Europe, 
this  ch.).  Late  in  the  same  year,  the  Soviets  gave  up  their  base  at 
Porkkala  in  exchange  for  an  extension  of  the  FCMA  treaty,  due 
to  expire  several  years  after  Paasikivi's  scheduled  retirement  in 
1956.  Soviet  uncertainty  about  the  conduct  of  his  successor  made 
Moscow  anxious  for  the  treaty's  renewal. 

The  departure  of  Soviet  troops  from  Finnish  territory  removed 
an  obstacle  to  Finland's  full  sovereignty  and  to  its  achievement  of 
neutr2ility.  In  1956  Nikita  Khrushchev,  first  secretary  of  the  Com- 
munist Party  of  the  Soviet  Union  (CPSU),  spoke  for  the  first  time 
of  Finnish  neutrality.  Soviet  tributes  to  Finland's  neutrality  and 
nonaligned  status  grew  common  in  the  next  few  years. 

Finnish-Soviet  relations  were  shaken  by  two  crises — the  Night 
Frost  Crisis  of  1958-59  and  the  more  serious  Note  Crisis  of  1961 
(see  Domestic  Developments  and  Foreign  Politics,  1948-66,  ch. 
1).  The  Note  Crisis  was  a  watershed  in  Finnish- Soviet  relations 
in  that  Kekkonen,  whose  successful  resolution  of  the  crisis  made 


280 


Government  and  Politics 


him  the  virtual  master  of  Finnish  foreign  poUcy,  and  others  real- 
ized that  in  the  future  Finnish  foreign  policy  ought  to  be  formulat- 
ed only  after  its  effects  on  Soviet  interests  had  been  carefully 
weighed.  Another  effect  of  the  crisis  was  that  it  led  to  the  inaugu- 
ration of  a  policy  of  active  and  peaceful  neutrality  (see  Neutrality, 
this  ch.). 

Finnish-Soviet  relations  since  the  Note  Crisis  have  been  stable 
and  unmarked  by  any  serious  disagreements.  Trade  between  the 
two  countries  has  remained  steady  since  the  1951  barter  agreement. 
In  1967  Finland  became  the  first  Western  country  to  set  up  a  per- 
manent intergovernmental  commission  with  the  Soviet  Union  for 
economic  cooperation.  A  treaty  on  economic,  technical,  and  in- 
dustrial cooperation  followed  in  1971,  as  did  a  long-term  agree- 
ment on  trade  and  cooperation  in  1977  that,  in  1987,  was  extended 
to  be  in  effect  until  the  turn  of  the  century.  The  first  joint  venture 
agreements  between  Finnish  and  Soviet  firms  were  also  arranged 
in  1987.  In  1973  Finland  was  the  first  capitalist  country  to  cooper- 
ate closely  with  the  Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon — see  Glossary)  (see  Regional  Eco- 
nomic Integration,  ch.  3). 

The  Soviet  Union  has  carefully  monitored  Finland's  adherence 
to  the  FCMA  treaty,  and  Finland's  awareness  of  this  scrutiny  has 
influenced  Finnish  policy.  For  example,  Finland  refrained  from 
full  membership  in  the  European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFT A) 
and  instead  joined  the  body  through  an  associate  membership  in 
1961.  The  entry  into  a  free-trade  relationship  with  the  European 
Economic  Community  (EEC — see  Glossary)  in  1973  occurred  only 
through  a  carefully  orchestrated  preliminary  plan  that  included  for- 
mal links  with  Comecon  and  a  special  re-election  of  Kekkonen  in 
1974  to  assure  the  Soviets  of  continuity  in  Finnish  foreign  policy. 

Since  the  Note  Crisis,  Soviet  interference  in  Finnish  domestic 
concerns  has  been  limited  to  occasional  critical  comments  in  the 
Soviet  press  and  from  official  spokesmen.  Clarification  about  Soviet 
policy  toward  Finland  could  be  obtained  from  Soviet  officials  them- 
selves, or  from  articles  published  in  authoritative  newspapers  or 
journals.  Since  the  1970s,  a  frequent  source  of  enlightenment  about 
the  Kremlin's  attitudes  toward  Finland,  and  about  Nordic  Europe 
in  general,  were  articles  written  under  the  name  of  Komissarov, 
many  of  which  were  commonly  believed  to  have  been  written  by 
lurii  Deriabin,  a  well-placed  and  knowledgeable  Soviet  specialist 
on  Finnish  affairs.  As  valued  indicators  of  Soviet  attitudes,  the  ar- 
ticles were  examined  line  by  line  in  Finland.  Komissarov  articles, 
for  example,  disabused  Finnish  foreign  affairs  specialists  of  the  no- 
tion, which  they  had  entertained  for  a  time,  that  Finland  had  the 


281 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

right  to  determine  on  its  own  whether  consultations  according  to 
Article  2  of  the  FCMA  treaty  were  necessary.  A  Komissarov  arti- 
cle that  appeared  in  January  1984  in  a  Helsinki  newspaper  expressed 
the  disquieting  Soviet  view  that  the  passage  of  cruise  missiles 
through  Finnish  airspace  might  conceivably  mean  the  need  for  con- 
sultations. 

Two  examples  may  indicate  the  restraint  exercised  by  the  Soviets 
in  their  dealings  with  Finnish  affairs  since  the  early  1960s.  In  1971 
the  Soviet  ambassador  was  recalled  from  Helsinki  after  he  had  be- 
come involved  in  the  internal  feuds  of  the  Communist  Party  of  Fin- 
land (Suomen  Kommunistinen  Puolue — SKP).  A  suggestion  in 
1978  by  a  Finnish  communist  newspaper,  which  was  repeated  by 
the  Soviet  chief  of  staff  General  Dmitri  Ustinov,  that  Finnish  mili- 
tary forces  should  hold  joint  maneuvers  with  Soviet  forces  was  quick- 
ly dismissed  by  Finnish  officials  as  incompatible  with  their  country's 
neutrality;  there  was  no  Soviet  rejoinder. 

Finnish  foreign  policy  vis-a-vis  the  Soviet  Union  enjoyed 
widespread  support  from  the  Finnish  people.  Polls  in  the  1980s  con- 
sistently measured  an  approval  rate  of  over  90  percent.  Another 
proof  of  the  acceptance  of  the  Paasikivi-Kekkonen  Line  was  that 
foreign  policy  played  virtually  no  part  in  the  parliamentary  elec- 
tions of  1983  and  1987.  From  the  Soviet  side,  comments  on  these 
elections  were  neutral,  with  no  hints  of  preferred  victors. 

Nordic  Europe 

Finland  is  an  integral  part  of  Nordic  Europe.  With  the  excep- 
tion of  a  small  Swedish-speaking  minority,  the  country  is  ethni- 
cally distinct  from  the  Scandinavian  countries,  but  the  700  years 
that  Finland  was  part  of  Sweden  gave  it  a  Nordic  inheritance  that 
survived  the  century  during  which  Finland  was  an  autonomous 
state  within  the  Russian  Empire.  During  the  interwar  period,  it 
entered  into  numerous  agreements  with  the  other  states  of  Nordic 
Europe.  After  World  War  II,  relations  resumed,  but  with  caution 
owing  to  the  tensions  of  the  Cold  War.  Finland  could  undertake 
no  initiatives  in  international  relations  that  might  cause  the  Soviet 
Union  to  suspect  that  Finland  was  being  drawn  into  the  Western 
camp. 

The  gradual  relaxation  of  superpower  tensions  meant  that  in  1955 
Finland  could  join  the  Nordic  Council,  three  years  after  its  foun- 
dation. The  Nordic  Council  was  an  organization  conceived  to  fur- 
ther cooperation  among  Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  and  Iceland. 
Meeting  once  a  year  for  a  week  in  one  of  the  capitals  of  the  mem- 
ber countries,  the  council  was  an  advisory  body,  the  decisions  of 
which  were  not  binding;  it  did  carry  considerable  weight,  however, 


282 


Government  and  Politics 


as  the  delegates  at  the  annual  meetings  were  frequently  leading 
politicians  of  the  countries  they  represented.  At  the  insistence  of 
Finland,  security  matters  were  not  to  be  discussed,  and  attention 
was  directed  rather  to  economic,  social,  and  cultural  issues.  Unlike 
the  Europe2in  Community  (EC — see  Glossary),  the  Nordic  Coun- 
cil was  not  a  supranational  organization,  and  membership  in  the 
council  did  not  affect  Finland's  status  as  a  neutral  nation. 

The  Treaty  of  Helsinki  of  1962  gave  birth  to  the  Nordic  Con- 
vention on  Cooperation,  which  defined  the  achievements  and  goals 
of  the  regional  policy  of  increased  interaction.  This  agreement  was 
followed  by  the  formation  in  1971  of  the  Nordic  Council  of 
Ministers,  which  instituted  a  formal  structure  for  frequent  meet- 
ings of  the  region's  cabinet  ministers.  The  issue  at  hand  determined 
which  ministers  would  attend.  In  addition  to  these  larger  bodies, 
numerous  smaller  entities  existed  to  further  Nordic  cooperation. 
A  study  of  the  second  half  of  the  1970s  found  more  than  100  such 
organizations.  The  efforts  of  these  bodies  and  the  many  formal  and 
informal  meetings  of  Nordic  politicians  and  civil  servants  stopped 
short  of  full  integration,  but  they  yielded  numerous  agreements 
that  brought  Finland  and  the  other  Nordic  countries  closer  together. 
This  so-called  "cobweb  integration"  has  given  the  citizens  of  Nordic 
Europe  many  reciprocal  rights  in  one  another's  countries.  Finns 
were  able  to  travel  freely  without  passports  throughout  Nordic 
Europe,  live  and  work  there  without  restrictions,  enjoy  the  full  social 
and  health  benefits  of  each  country,  and  since  1976,  vote  in  local 
elections  after  a  legal  residence  of  two  years.  Citizenship  in  another 
of  the  Nordic  countries  could  be  acquired  more  easily  by  a  Finn 
than  by  someone  from  outside  the  region. 

Economic  cooperation  did  not  proceed  so  smoothly.  Nordic 
hopes,  in  the  mid-1950s,  of  establishing  a  common  market  were 
disappointed,  and  EFT  A  was  accepted  as  a  substitute.  An  attempt 
in  1969  to  form  a  Nordic  customs  union,  the  Nordic  Economic 
Union  (NORDEK),  foundered  when  Finland  withdrew  from  the 
plan.  The  withdrawal  may  have  been  caused  by  Soviet  concerns 
that  Finland  could  be  brought  into  too  close  a  relationship  with 
the  EEC  via  Denmark's  expected  membership  in  the  Community. 
This  setback  was  mitigated,  however,  when  the  Nordic  Investment 
Bank  began  operations  in  1976  in  Helsinki.  The  bank's  purpose 
was  to  invest  in  financial  ventures  in  the  Nordic  region. 

In  the  second  hadf  of  the  1980s,  Finland  continued  working  with 
its  Scandinavian  neighbors,  being  a  part,  for  example,  of  the  Nor- 
dic bloc  in  the  UN  and  participating  in  Nordic  Third  World 
development  projects.  Finland's  Nordic  NWFZ  proposal  was  being 
studied  and  furthered  by  an  inter-Nordic  parliamentary  committee, 


283 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

and  Finland  was  always  present  at  the  semiannual  meeting  of  Nor- 
dic foreign  ministers. 

Western  Europe 

Finland  had  to  adjust  its  foreign  policy  after  World  War  II  to 
the  changed  international  environment;  however,  it  continued  to 
enjoy  good  relations  with  West  European  countries,  particularly 
in  the  field  of  economic  cooperation.  The  country  joined  economic 
projects  such  as  GATT  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary),  but,  wary  of  arousing  Soviet  apprehensions 
about  potential  political  ties  to  the  West,  did  not  seek  membership 
in  the  Organisation  for  European  Economic  Co-operation  (OEEC). 
Through  a  clever  device,  however,  Finland  did  manage  to  partici- 
pate in  the  trade  benefits  provided  by  the  OEEC's  European  Pay- 
ments Union:  in  1957  Finland  formed  its  own  body,  the  Helsinki 
Club,  which  was  subsequently  joined  by  all  OEEC  countries.  In 
1961 ,  for  imperative  economic  reasons,  Finland  worked  out  a  spe- 
cial relationship  with  EFTA  after  complex  negotiations.  Finland's 
relationship,  an  associate  membership  in  the  body,  became  feasi- 
ble after  the  Soviet  Union  agreed  that  it  was  compatible  with  the 
Finnish  policy  of  neutrality  and  after  tariff  arrangements  ensured 
the  continuity  of  Finnish- Soviet  economic  cooperation.  A  more  sta- 
ble world  meant  that  in  1969  Finland  was  able  to  join  the  OEEC's 
successor,  the  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and 
Development  (OECD).  In  1973  Helsinki,  in  a  balancing  effort, 
signed  agreements  with  both  the  EEC  and  Comecon  and  was  given 
a  special  status  with  both  organizations. 

Another  subtle  act  of  diplomatic  balancing  was  Finnish  treat- 
ment of  the  thorny  question  of  what  kind  of  relations  it  should  have 
with  the  two  German  states.  To  recognize  either  would  antagonize 
one  of  the  superpowers.  The  Finnish  solution  was  to  establish  two 
separate  trade  missions,  one  in  each  of  the  Germanics.  This 
arrangement  allowed  diplomatic  relations  and  alienated  no  one. 
Once  the  two  German  states  recognized  each  other  in  1972,  Fin- 
land was  able  to  establish  normal  diplomatic  relations  with  each 
of  them. 

The  years  since  the  early  1970s  have  seen  a  steady  normaliza- 
tion of  Finland's  relations  with  Western  Europe.  In  the  1980s,  Fin- 
nish trade  with  the  region  accounted  for  about  60  percent  of  its 
exports;  the  country  participated  in  European  economic  and 
research  endeavors  like  Eureka  and  the  European  Space  Agency 
(ESA);  and  1986  saw  full  Finnish  membership  in  EFTA.  In  addi- 
tion, by  the  end  of  1988  zdl  obstacles  appeared  cleared  for  Finland's 


284 


Government  and  Politics 


membership  in  the  Council  of  Europe  (see  Glossary)  the  following 
year. 

The  increasing  integration  of  the  EC,  however,  presented 
problems  for  Finland  and  for  EFTA's  other  neutral  states.  The 
supranational  character  of  the  EC ,  which  was  always  incompati- 
ble with  Finnish  neutrality,  became  even  more  so  with  the  signing 
in  1985  of  the  EC's  Single  European  Act.  The  act  aimed  at  for- 
eign policy  cooperation  among  members,  and  it  therefore  made 
Finnish  membership  in  the  EC  inconceivable.  Exclusion  from  the 
EC,  however,  could  threaten  Finland's  export-based  economy  if 
the  ''internal  market"  that  the  EC  hoped  to  have  in  place  by  1992 
led  to  trade  barriers  directed  against  nations  outside  the  Commu- 
nity. The  late  1980s  and  the  early  1990s  were  certain  to  be  a  time 
of  intensive  Finnish  dicussion  on  how  this  challenge  was  to  be  met. 

United  States 

The  United  States  recognized  Finland  as  an  independent  state 
in  1919.  In  that  year,  the  United  States  assisted  Finland  with  deliv- 
eries of  food  through  an  organization  led  by  Herbert  Hoover.  Since 
then  assistance  has  been  in  the  form  of  loans,  all  of  which  have 
been  repaid.  This  has  contributed  to  the  development  of  friendly 
relations  between  the  countries.  The  American  public  expressed 
great  sympathy  for  Finland  during  the  Winter  War,  and,  although 
the  United  States  ambassador  was  recailled  in  June  1944  after  Fin- 
land's decision  to  continue  the  war  against  the  Soviet  Union,  the 
United  States  did  not  declare  war  on  Finland  (see  The  Winter  War, 
ch.  1).  In  the  postwar  period,  Finnish- American  relations  have  been 
exceedingly  cordial.  Even  though  political  considerations  did  not 
allow  Finland  to  participate  in  the  Marshall  Plan  after  World  War 
II,  in  the  immediate  postwar  years,  Finland  received  about  US$200 
million  in  credits  from  the  United  States  to  help  rebuild  its  indus- 
trial base. 

Both  Kekkonen  and  Koivisto  paid  state  visits  to  the  United  States, 
and  United  States  presidents  have  occasionally  expressed  their  sup- 
port for  Finnish  neutrality.  In  early  1983,  however,  the  supreme 
commander  of  NATO  forces  in  Europe,  United  States  general  Ber- 
nard Rogers,  expressed  uncertainty  about  the  Finns'  desire  to 
defend  themselves.  His  press  conference  remarks  caused  much  con- 
sternation in  Finland.  Other  military  officials  have  since  praised 
Finland's  defense  readiness;  among  them  was  United  States  admiral 
William  Crowe,  who  paid  Finland  an  official  visit  in  1986  as  chair- 
man of  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff. 

United  Nations  and  the  Third  World 

Because  Finland  had  fought  with  the  Axis  powers  during  World 


285 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

War  II,  it  was  ineligible  for  charter  membership  in  the  UN  in  1945. 
Finland  applied  for  membership  in  1947,  but  Cold  War  disagree- 
ments among  the  great  powers  on  UN  admissions  policies  delayed 
Finland's  entry  until  1955. 

Finland  had  not  been  very  enthusiastic  about  membership  in  the 
UN  in  the  1945  to  1955  period.  The  country  tried  to  pursue  the 
Paasikivi  policy  of  passive  and  cautious  neutrality  and  feared  that 
joining  the  UN  would  be  incompatible  with  its  nonaligned  status. 
A  strict  interpretation  of  the  UN  charter  made  membership  in  it 
incompatible  with  neutrality.  According  to  Article  25  of  the  chart- 
er, members  of  the  UN  are  obliged  to  follow  the  decision  of  the 
Security  Council  in  applying  economic  or  military  sanctions  against 
other  member  states. 

Since  becoming  a  member,  however,  Finland  has  been  a  com- 
mitted and  active  participant  in  accordance  with  its  official  foreign 
policy  of  a  peaceful  and  active  neutrality.  In  the  late  1960s,  it  was 
a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  and  one  of  its  UN  officials,  the 
diplomat  and  historian  Max  Jakobson,  was  a  strong  contender  for 
the  post  of  secretary  general.  His  candidacy  is  said  to  have  failed 
because  of  reservations  on  the  part  of  the  Soviet  Union.  In  the  fall 
of  1988,  Finland  was  reelected  to  the  Security  Council  for  a  two- 
year  term,  and  it  was  expected  to  assume  the  council's  chairman- 
ship in  1990. 

There  have  been  two  main  lines  of  Finnish  policy  in  the  UN. 
The  first  is  that  Finland  avoids  any  political  or  economic  confron- 
tation in  which  the  interests  of  the  superpowers  are  direcdy  involved. 
This  policy  explains  why  Finland  has  refrained  over  the  years  from 
condemning  Soviet  actions,  most  recently  the  Soviet  military 
presence  in  Afghanistan.  Finnish  officials  hold  that  their  country 
can  be  more  effective  on  the  internation2il  level  if  it  has  good  rela- 
tions with  all  countries.  (They  commonly  explain  that  Finland  wish- 
es to  work  as  a  doctor  rather  than  as  a  judge.)  The  second  current 
of  Finland's  UN  policy  is  that  country's  role  as  part  of  the  Nordic 
bloc  within  the  orgcinization.  FinlEind  consults  and  collaborates  close- 
ly with  other  Nordic  members,  generally  voting  with  them,  par- 
ticipating with  them  in  aid  projects  to  the  Third  World  through 
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  or  being 
part  of  the  UN  forces  sent  to  troubled  areas,  Finnish  forces  have 
taken  part  in  every  UN  peacekeeping  mission  since  the  early  1960s. 
In  addition,  the  country  maintains  a  permanent  military  force  avail- 
able to  the  organization  (see  United  Nations  Peacekeeping  Activi- 
ties, ch.  5).  Finnish  aid  to  the  Third  World  has  not  been  so  extensive 
as  that  of  the  other  Nordic  countries.  Finland,  for  example,  has 
never  met  the  goal  of  contributing  0.7  percent  of  its  gross  national 


286 


Government  and  Politics 


product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  to  Third  World  development,  and 
critics  have  charged  that  Finland  gets  a  "free  ride"  from  the 
achievements  and  good  reputations  of  Sweden,  Norway,  and  Den- 
mark. Efforts  were  underway  in  the  1980s,  however,  to  come  closer 
to  this  figure.  The  foreign  aid  programs  in  which  Finland  was 
involved  were  not  only  multilateral,  but,  with  regard  to  a  few 
selected  countries,  were  carried  out  on  a  one-to-one  basis.  Finland's 
record  as  a  provider  of  asylum  for  refugees  did  not  always  match 
the  records  of  the  other  Nordic  countries.  A  quota  system  institut- 
ed in  1985  provided  for  the  acceptance  of  100  refugees  a  year.  Criti- 
cism of  this  figure  led  to  the  quota's  increase  to  200  a  year  in  1987, 
and  in  mid- 1988  Finnish  officials  decided  to  admit  300  refugees 
that  year.  As  of  late  1988,  there  were  about  1,200  refugees  in  Fin- 
land, nearly  all  of  them  from  the  Third  World. 


An  excellent  introduction  to  Finnish  political  life  is  David  Art- 
er's  Politics  and  Policy-Making  in  Finland.  The  same  author's  The  Nordic 
Parliaments  presents  in  great  detail  the  workings  of  the  Eduskunta, 
the  Landsting,  and  the  Nordic  Council.  Somewhat  dated,  but  still 
useful,  is  Ja2ikko  Nousiainen's  classic  The  Finnish  Political  System. 
The  second  edition  of  The  Finnish  Legal  System,  edited  by  Jaakko 
Uotila,  will  meet  the  needs  of  many  readers  on  this  subject;  in  ad- 
dition, it  has  expert  surveys  of  various  Finnish  political  institutions. 
Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt,  edited 
by  Risto  Alapuro  et  al,  contains  a  number  of  valuable  2irticles.  Klaus 
Tornudd's  Finland  and  the  International  Norms  of  Human  Rights  ex- 
amines Finnish  legal  protections  for  human  rights  and  provides 
much  information  about  law  and  the  media. 

Stimulating  brief  accounts  of  Finland's  unique  international  po- 
sition are  George  Maude's  The  Finnish  Dilemma:  Neutrality  in  the 
Shadow  of  Povuer  and  Max  Jakobson's  Finnish  Neutrality.  Roy  Alli- 
son's more  recent  Finland's  Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union,  1944-84 
is  also  very  useful.  Foreign  Policies  of  Northern  Europe,  edited  by  Bengt 
Sundelius,  treats  the  Nordic  region  as  a  whole,  yet  it  will  help  the 
reader  seeking  more  specific  information  about  many  aspects  of 
Finnish  foreign  relations.  The  Nordic  quarterly  Cooperation  and  Con- 
flict often  contains  excellent  articles  that  de2il  with  Finnish  foreign 
relations,  as  does  the  Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy,  published 
by  the  Finnish  Institute  of  Foreign  Affairs.  (For  further  informa- 
tion and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


287 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


Escutcheon  in  front  of  Ministry  of  Defense,  Helsinki 


In  the  strategically  vital  region  of  northern 
Europe,  Finland  and  Sweden  together  form  a  large  expanse  of  neu- 
tral territory  between  the  two  military  blocs  of  the  North  Atlantic 
Treaty  Organization  and  the  Warsaw  Pact.  Finnish  defense  poli- 
cy in  the  late  1980s  was  based  on  the  principle  that,  while  not  directiy 
threatened  from  any  source,  Finland  was  in  danger  of  becoming 
involved  in  the  event  of  a  larger  conflict  between  the  great  pow- 
ers. In  such  an  eventuality,  Finnish  territory  might  be  violated  in 
military  operations  targeting  objectives  beyond  Finland's  borders. 
If,  as  seemed  most  likely,  the  potenticd  invader  was  primarily  en- 
gaged elsewhere,  determined  Finnish  defensive  action  should  have 
a  realistic  chance  to  succeed,  or  at  least  to  inflict  severe  damage 
sufficient  to  discourage  potential  incursions. 

Finland's  standing  forces  were  modest  in  number  (about  35,000), 
both  as  a  requirement  of  the  1947  Treaty  of  Paris  and  as  a  result 
of  the  economic  constraints  on  a  nation  of  fewer  than  5  million 
inhabitcints.  The  treaty  also  prohibited  Finland  from  acquiring  arms 
of  an  offensive  nature.  Nevertheless,  a  conscription  system  provided 
military  training  for  nearly  2dl  young  men,  and,  in  an  emergency, 
a  reserve  force  of  former  conscripts  could  put  up  to  700,000  men, 
nearly  15  percent  of  the  country's  population,  in  the  field.  When 
mobilized,  this  sizable  fighting  force,  aided  by  natural  defenses  of 
deep  forests,  marshes  and  lakes,  and  a  bitter  winter  climate,  could 
present  a  formidable  chadlenge  to  any  invading  army. 

Historically,  Finland  has  been  a  source  of  strategic  concern  to 
the  Soviet  Union  because  of  its  proximity  to  the  densely  populat- 
ed, industrialized  zone  centered  on  the  Soviet  Union's  second  larg- 
est city,  Leningrad.  Although  Leningrad  was  still  important  militar- 
ily, by  the  1970s  the  strategic  focus  had  shifted  northward,  where 
sparsely  inhabited  Finnish  Lapland  lies  close  to  the  concentration 
of  Soviet  bases  and  ports  on  the  Kola  Peninsula.  Upon  the  out- 
break of  war,  these  northernmost  regions  of  Europe  would,  in  all 
likelihood,  become  a  key  area  of  conflict.  Finland's  northern 
defenses,  both  ground  and  air,  had  been  reinforced  during  the  1970s 
and  the  1980s  to  emphasize  its  determination  to  prevent  Lapland 
from  becoming  a  corridor  for  attack  by  one  of  the  military  alliances. 

The  Finnish  military  relationship  vis-a-vis  the  Soviet  Union  was 
governed  by  the  1948  Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and 
Mutual  Assistance,  which  committed  Finland  to  use  all  of  its  avail- 
able forces  to  repel  an  attack  from  the  West,  if  necessary  with  the 


291 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

assistance  of  the  Soviet  Union.  Soviet  involvement  would,  however, 
require  Finland's  assent.  To  preclude  the  possibility  of  the  Soviet 
Union's  insisting  on  introducing  its  forces  onto  Finnish  soil  under 
the  pretext  of  a  developing  threat,  Finland  deemed  it  essential  that 
the  Finnish  Defense  Forces  be  perceived  as  having  the  capability 
to  deny  the  hostile  transit  of  Finnish  territory.  The  Finnish  defense 
posture  thus  gave  considerable  emphasis  to  effective  surveillance 
and  alertness  in  order  to  detect  violations  of  Finnish  air  space  and 
land  and  sea  intrusions  in  any  part  of  the  country. 

Officially,  Finnish  defense  strategy  assumed  that  attack  could 
come  from  any  direction;  hence,  its  standing  forces  were  distributed 
throughout  the  territory.  Finland's  sensitive  relations  with  Moscow 
precluded  a  deployment  suggesting  that  the  most  likely  threat  was 
along  its  extended  eastern  border  with  the  Soviet  Union.  Neverthe- 
less, a  possible  scenario  was  a  Soviet  crossing  of  the  northern  ter- 
ritories of  Finland  and  Sweden  to  attack  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization  bases  in  northern  Norway  that  threatened  the  move- 
ment of  Soviet  fleet  units  into  the  Atlantic. 

Finnish  strategic  doctrine  had  emerged  from  the  lessons  learned 
during  the  two  phases  of  its  conflict  with  the  Soviet  Union  between 
1939  and  1944 — the  Winter  War  and  the  Continuation  War.  The 
Finns'  experience  of  fighting  against  vasdy  superior  manpower  had 
taught  them  that  set  battles  with  concentrations  of  forces  should 
be  avoided.  Defense  in  depth  and  mobility  of  forces  were  neces- 
sary in  order  to  minimize  attrition.  The  emphasis  was  on  smaller 
fighting  elements  that  could,  by  guerrilla  tactics,  employ  terrain 
and  weather  to  pin  down  and  to  divide  larger  enemy  forces,  then 
swiftly  concentrate  their  own  units  for  punishing  attacks.  The  ul- 
timate objective  was  not  to  win  a  clear-cut  military  victory  against 
a  more  powerful  opponent  but,  as  in  Finland's  World  War  II  cam- 
paigns, to  inflict  sufficient  losses  on  the  attacker  to  persuade  him 
that  a  negotiated  settlement  was  preferable  to  a  continued  drain 
on  resources. 

Although  Finnish  first-line  units  were  undergoing  moderniza- 
tion in  the  late  1980s,  the  Defense  Forces  as  a  whole  were  only 
moderately  well  equipped  for  the  mission  of  resisting  armed  attack 
against  or  across  Finland's  territory.  Military  outlays  continued 
to  be  among  the  lowest,  in  relation  to  national  income,  of  all  of 
the  developed  countries.  Nonetheless,  the  nation  was  firm  in  its 
resolve  to  defend  Finnish  territory  and  independence.  It  was  con- 
fident that  its  military  preparedness,  combined  with  the  qualities 
of  its  individual  soldiers  and  its  forbidding  geography,  presented 
a  strong  deterrent  to  intervention  from  any  quarter. 


292 


National  Security 


Military  Heritage 

Although  Finland  did  not  achieve  full  national  independence  until 
1917,  its  military  traditions  went  back  more  than  300  years.  As 
a  part  of  the  dual  kingdom  of  Sweden  and  Finland,  Finland  sup- 
plied the  Swedish  armies  not  only  with  drafted  foot  soldiers,  but 
also  with  highly  qualified  officers  from  the  Swedish- speaking 
aristocracy  (see  The  Era  of  Swedish  Rule,  c.  1150-1809,  ch.  1). 
Contributing  as  much  as  one-third  of  the  manpower  of  the  Swed- 
ish armed  forces,  the  Finnish  infantry  and  cavalry  distinguished 
themselves  at  a  time  when  Sweden  was  playing  a  decisive  role  in 
European  power  politics.  The  setbacks  that  Sweden  eventually 
suffered  in  Europe  were  explained  by  the  Finns,  with  considera- 
ble justification,  as  mistakes  that  had  been  made  by  the  Swedish 
kings  on  the  political  level.  The  performance  of  the  Finns  on  vari- 
ous battlefields  had  justified  their  reputation  for  bravery  and  their 
confidence  in  their  own  martial  abilities. 

With  the  decline  of  Swedish  power  in  the  eighteenth  century, 
the  Finns  were  called  upon  to  defend  the  country's  borders  to  the 
east  against  the  traditionsil  enemy,  Russia.  On  three  major  occa- 
sions, Russian  armies  occupied  parts  of  the  country  for  a  number 
of  years  before  eventuzilly  being  driven  out  by  Finnish  and  Swed- 
ish forces.  When  Finland  became  the  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland  in 
the  Russian  Empire  in  1809,  the  Finnish  units  of  the  Swedish  army 
were  disbanded. 

The  first  indigenous  Finnish  military  elements  of  three  light  in- 
fantry regiments  were  raised  at  the  time  of  Napoleon's  eastward 
drive  in  1812,  but  during  most  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  only 
Finnish  military  force  was  a  guards  battalion  paid  for  by  the  tsar. 
Finns  were  specificadly  exempted  from  Russian  conscription,  but 
more  than  3,000  of  them,  mostly  from  the  aristocracy,  served  in 
the  tsarist  armies  between  1 809  and  1917  (see  The  Russian  Grand 
Duchy  of  Finland,  1809-1917,  ch.  1). 

The  Finnish  Military  Academy  at  Hamina  continued  to  turn 
out  officers  who  served  with  distinction  in  the  Impericd  Russian 
Army,  a  disproportionate  number  rising  to  the  rank  of  general. 
Among  these  graduates  was  Carl  Gustaf  Emil  Mannerheim,  who 
later  became  the  great  hero  of  Finnish  resistance  and  the  struggle 
for  independence. 

In  1878  the  tsar  permitted  Finland  to  raise  its  own  national  militia 
through  a  conscription  law  providing  for  selection  of  recruits  by 
lot  to  serve  either  as  regulars  or  reservists.  By  the  beginning  of  the 
twentieth  century,  the  Finnish  army  consisted  of  eight  provincial 
battalions  of  infantry  and  a  regiment  of  dragoons,  together  with 


293 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

thirty-two  reserve  companies.  In  1901,  as  part  of  the  Russiflca- 
tion  movement,  the  Russian  authorities  introduced  a  military  ser- 
vice law  obligating  Finns  to  serve  in  the  tsarist  army,  for  four  years, 
anywhere  within  the  Russian  Empire,  Only  one  regiment  of  dra- 
goons and  one  battalion  of  guards  from  the  Finnish  army  were  to 
be  retained;  the  rest  were  to  be  incorporated  in  the  imperial  army. 
The  new  law  was  met  by  passive  resistance  in  Finland,  and  it 
strengthened  the  Finnish  nationalist  movement.  In  a  shift  of  policy 
in  1905,  the  conscription  law  was  suspended,  and  Finns  were  never 
again  called  upon  to  serve  in  Russian  uniform.  Nevertheless,  the 
Russians  dissolved  the  militia,  the  military  academy,  cind  the  guards 
battalion. 

Soon  after  Finland  gained  independence  in  December  1917,  a 
nationalistic,  middle-class  militia  known  as  the  White  Gucirds,  which 
had  been  secretly  established  in  1904  and  1905  and  which  had 
remained  underground  since  then  disguised  as  athletic  clubs  and 
other  groups,  was  officially  proclaimed  the  army  of  the  Finnish 
government  under  General  Mannerheim.  This  so-called  White 
Army  was  strengthened  and  trained  by  1,100  officers  and  noncom- 
missioned officers  (NCOs)  who  had  traveled  clandestinely  to  Ger- 
many during  World  War  I  and  had  formed  the  Twenty- seventh 
Royal  Prussian  Jaeger  Battalion.  Returning  to  Finland,  they 
brought  back  with  them  urgentiy  needed  small  arms  captured  from 
the  Russians.  The  White  forces  were  swelled  by  new  conscripts, 
officers  of  the  former  Finnish  armed  forces,  Swedish  volunteers, 
and  Finnish  officers  who  had  served  in  the  Swedish  and  in  the  Rus- 
sian armies,  in  addition  to  the  jaegers.  After  three  months  of  bit- 
ter civil  conflict,  the  White  Army  of  about  70,000  troops  defeated 
the  Red  Guards  from  the  radical  wing  of  the  Finnish  Social 
Democratic  Party,  in  May  1918.  Both  sides  suffered  thousands  of 
casualties.  In  four  months,  the  White  Guards  had  evolved  from 
a  strongly  motivated,  but  ill- trained,  militia  into  a  batde-hardened, 
disciplined  national  armed  force.  Although  numericziUy  superior 
and  reinforced  by  the  Russian  garrisons  in  Finland,  the  Red  Guards 
were  deficient  in  equipment,  training,  and  leadership  (see  The  Fin- 
nish Civil  War,  ch.  1). 

During  and  after  the  Civil  War,  conflict  emerged  between  the 
younger  jaeger  officers  of  the  Finnish  army  and  the  former  tsarist 
officers  in  its  upper  ranks.  When  most  of  the  Finnish  officer  corps 
threatened  to  resign  in  1924  over  the  dominance  of  the  Russian- 
trained  leadership,  most  of  the  Russian  officers  were  moved  aside 
and  the  jaeger  officers  began  to  occupy  the  higher  echelons,  bringing 
the  influence  of  German  military  doctrine  and  training  methods 
with  them. 


294 


National  Security 


The  new  government  reinstituted  conscription  after  the  Civil  War 
and  estabUshed  a  small  national  army.  It  also  introduced  a  mobili- 
zation system  and  compulsory  refresher  courses  for  reservists.  The 
Finnish  Military  Academy  was  reactivated  in  1919,  and  during  the 
1920s  a  reserve  officers'  school  was  formed,  together  with  NCO 
schools  for  various  brainches  and  arms  of  the  service.  The  Civil 
Guard,  a  voluntary  rightist  formation  of  100,000  personnel  de- 
rived from  the  White  Guards,  constituted  a  local  auxiliary. 
Nevertheless,  Finland  did  not  succeed  in  building  a  strong  nation- 
al army.  The  requirement  of  one  year  of  compulsory  service  was 
greater  th2in  that  imposed  by  any  other  Scandinavian  country  in 
the  1920s  and  the  1930s,  but  politic2d  opposition  to  defense  spend- 
ing left  the  military  badly  equipped  to  resist  attack  by  the  Soviet 
Union,  the  only  security  threat  in  Finnish  eyes. 

When  the  Soviets  invaded  in  November  1939,  they  were  met 
by  a  force  of  135,000  Finnish  troops  organized  into  9  divisions. 
In  a  matter  of  a  few  weeks,  the  Finnish  army  destroyed  large  num- 
bers of  invading  Soviet  soldiers.  The  initial  Red  Army  contingents 
were  poorly  trained,  and  they  were  unprepared  for  combat  under 
severe  winter  conditions.  The  Finnish  army  was  able  to  inflict  sharp 
defeats  in  battles  on  the  Karelian  Isthmus  and  in  northeastern  Fin- 
land. Momentarily,  it  looked  as  if  Finland  would  turn  back  the 
aggressor  and  would  inflict  an  astonishing  military  defeat  on  its 
great  and  powerful  neighbor.  When  the  Soviet  commanders  revert- 
ed to  a  strategy  of  wearing  down  the  greatly  outnumbered  Finns 
in  Karelia  by  their  overwhelming  firepower,  however,  Finland's 
defeat  was  inevitable.  On  March  12,  1940,  an  armistice  yielded 
slighdy  more  territory  to  the  Soviets  than  they  had  initially  demand- 
ed in  1939.  The  Soviets  regarded  this  territory  as  being  vitcd  to 
their  preparations  for  a  future  showdown  with  Nazi  Germany  (see 

In  the  Continuation  War,  fought  by  Finland  as  a  cobelligerent 
with  Germany  from  1941  to  1944,  Finnish  forces  again  demon- 
strated their  superior  qualities.  Thanks  to  the  Germans,  the  army 
was  now  much  better  equipped,  and  the  period  of  conscription  had 
been  increased  to  two  years,  making  possible  the  formation  of  six- 
teen infantry  divisions.  The  fully  mobilized  Finnish  army  of  400,000 
was  numerically  superior  to  the  opposing  Soviet  forces,  which  had 
been  thinned  to  meet  the  need  for  troops  to  resist  the  German  on- 
slaught on  the  centred  front.  The  Finnish  goal  was  not  conquest 
but  regaining  territories  traditionally  Finnish.  The  Finns  refused 
German  pressure  to  join  in  the  siege  of  Leningrad,  but  they  pushed 
80  to  1 60  kilometers  into  Soviet  territory  farther  north  above  Lake 
Ladoga  before  settling  for  static  defensive  operations.  The  Finnish 


295 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

army  continued  to  occupy  this  former  Finnish  area  until  the  major 
Soviet  offensive  of  June  1944.  Confined  in  the  losing  Axis  coali- 
tion, the  Finns  had  to  retreat  for  a  second  time,  and  they  escaped 
total  Soviet  invasion  and  occupation  only  by  entering  into  a  sep2irate 
agreement  that  obligated  them  to  military  action  against  the  retreat- 
ing German  armies  (see  The  Continuation  War,  ch.  1). 

The  demobilization  and  regrouping  of  the  Finnish  Defense  Forces 
were  carried  out  in  late  1944  under  the  supervision  of  the  Allied 
Control  Commission.  Following  the  Treaty  of  Paris  in  1947,  which 
imposed  restrictions  on  the  size  and  equipment  of  the  armed  forces 
and  required  disbandment  of  the  Civil  Guard,  Finland  reorganized 
its  defense  forces.  The  fact  that  the  conditions  of  the  peace  treaty 
did  not  include  prohibitions  on  reserves  or  mobilization  made  it 
possible  to  contemplate  an  adequate  defense  establishment  within 
the  prescribed  limits.  The  reorganization  resulted  in  the  abolition 
of  about  15  percent  of  officer  and  NCO  positions,  the  adoption 
of  the  brigade — in  place  of  the  division — as  the  basic  formation, 
and  the  reduction  of  the  term  of  service  for  conscripts  to  240  days 
(330  days  for  NCO  and  for  reserve  officer  candidates).  The 
organization  of  the  high  command  was  unchanged,  but  the  minister 
of  defense  was  given  slightly  more  authority  in  decision  making. 
The  completion  of  this  reorganization  in  1952  established  the  struc- 
ture within  which  the  modern  Defense  Forces  were  to  evolve. 

Treaty  Commitments  Affecting  National  Security 

Considering  the  magnitude  of  the  defeat  and  the  blows  that  were 
dealt  to  other  nations  fighting  on  Germany's  side  during  World 
War  II,  Finland  did  not  fare  badly  when  the  terms  for  the  Treaty 
of  Paris  were  completed  on  February  10,  1947.  With  respect  to 
national  security,  the  most  important  parts  of  the  peace  treaty  were 
the  restrictions  it  put  on  Finland's  armed  forces.  Part  III,  Articles 
13  through  Article  22,  limited  the  future  regular  Finnish  army  to 
34,400  soldiers,  the  navy  to  4,500  individuals,  and  the  air  force 
to  3,000.  There  were  also  exclusions  of  equipment  of  an  offensive 
nature,  such  as  bombers,  missiles,  and  submarines.  Warships  could 
not  exceed  a  combined  total  of  10,000  tons.  The  air  force  could 
acquire  up  to  sixty  combat  planes,  but  they  were  not  to  include 
bombers  or  fighter  bombers.  None  of  the  services  was  allowed  to 
construct,  to  procure,  or  to  test  nuclear  weapons. 

The  stipulations  on  the  size  of  the  Finnish  armed  forces  were 
included  on  the  demand  of  Britain,  which  did  not  want  to  accord 
special  treatment  to  Finland.  (Limiting  provisions  also  had  been 
incorporated  into  the  peace  treaties  with  Romania,  Bulgaria,  and 
Hungary.)  Fears  that  Finland  would  soon  come  within  the  Soviet 


296 


National  Security 


orbit  may  also  have  influenced  the  British  demands.  The  peace 
treaty  restrictions  have  never  been  interpreted  as  prohibiting  Fin- 
land from  training  and  arming  a  large  reserve  force,  however.  The 
Soviet  Union  has,  on  the  contrary,  been  willing  to  sell  Finland 
equipment  far  in  excess  of  the  needs  of  its  standing  army. 

Changing  geopolitical  conditions  and  weapons  technology  have 
resulted  in  an  easing  of  the  treaty's  restrictions.  In  spite  of  the  pro- 
hibition against  missiles  of  all  types,  in  1963  the  contracting  par- 
ties approved  an  interpretation  of  the  peace  treaty  permitting 
Finland  to  acquire  defensive  missiles.  Finland  subsequentiy  armed 
itself  with  naval  surface-to-surface  missiles  (SSMs),  antiaircraft  mis- 
siles, and  antitank  missiles.  In  1983,  following  another  interpreta- 
tion that  the  treaty's  ban  on  magnetic  underwater  mines  did  not 
prohibit  mines  of  a  defensive  nature,  Finl2ind  was  permitted  to  buy 
modern  mines  from  Britain  and  from  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  problems  of  national  defense  were  also  affected  by  the  Treaty 
of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance  (FCMA — see 
Appendix  B)  with  the  Soviet  Union,  requested  by  Joseph  Stalin 
in  February  1 948  and  signed  by  the  Finnish  government  in  April 
of  the  same  year  (see  The  Cold  War  and  the  Treaty  of  1948,  ch. 
1).  The  most  important  defense-related  clauses  were  Articles  1  and 
2 ,  which  deal  with  military  cooperation  and  consultation  between 
Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Other  articles  deal  with  noninter- 
ference in  the  internal  affairs  of  the  other  state  and  agreement  not 
to  enter  into  an  alliance  aimed  against  the  other  party  of  the  treaty. 

The  Finnish  government  distinguished  the  FCMA  treaty  from 
a  military  alliance  by  pointing  out  that  its  military  clauses  were 
restricted  to  situations  of  attack  against  Finland  or  against  the  Soviet 
Union  through  Finnish  territory.  Moreover,  according  to  the  lan- 
guage of  the  treaty,  the  military  assistance  to  be  provided  by  the 
Soviet  Union  was  not  to  come  into  effect  automatically;  it  was  to 
require  Finland's  approval  following  consultations  of  the  general 
staffs  of  the  two  nations. 

The  FCMA  treaty  has  been  renewed  several  times,  most  recendy 
in  1983  for  a  twenty-year  period.  The  frequent  renewals,  long  before 
the  expiration  dates,  seemed  to  reflect  intense  Soviet  interest  in 
the  treaty.  Finland  has  strenuously  avoided  military  consultations 
under  the  treaty  and  has  never  accepted  hints  by  the  Soviets  that 
the  treaty  should  be  the  basis  for  military  cooperation  and  joint 
exercises.  Nevertheless,  the  potential  for  serious  strains  with 
Moscow  cdways  existed  over  the  need  for,  and  the  nature  of, 
assistance  under  the  treaty  (see  Soviet  Union,  ch.  4). 

The  Aland  Islands  have  historically  served,  during  conflict  in 
the  Baltic  Sea,  as  naval  bases  and  as  staging  and  transit  areas  in 


297 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


support  of  offensive  operations  on  land  (see  fig.  1).  In  1921  the 
most  important  Baltic  countries,  exclusive  of  the  Soviet  Union,  con- 
cluded a  convention  that  strengthened  the  demilitarization  of  the 
islands  originally  agreed  to  in  1856.  Under  this  convention,  Fin- 
land could  neither  fortify  the  islands  nor  construct  military  bases 
in  the  archipelago,  but  it  could  send  armed  forces  there  temporar- 
ily in  case  of  a  need  to  restore  order  or  to  carry  out  inspections 
by  small  nav2il  vessels  or  air  reconnaissance.  In  wartime,  the  con- 
vention authorized  Finland  to  take  necessary  measures  to  repel  an 
attack  endangering  the  neutrality  of  the  zone. 

In  1940,  under  a  separate  agreement  between  Finland  and  the 
Soviet  Union,  Finland  reaffirmed  the  demilitarization  of  the  islands 
and  pledged  not  to  place  them  at  the  disposal  of  any  other  state's 
armed  forces.  These  commitments  were  recognized  by  a  clause  in 
the  1947  Treaty  of  Paris  stating  that  the  islands  were  to  remain 
demilitarized.  In  conformity  with  Finlaind's  obligations  under  these 
agreements,  the  Coast  Guard  patrolled  the  territorial  waters  of  the 
Aland  Islands  in  peacetime.  The  Defense  Forces  would  exercise 
responsibility  for  their  defense  in  wartime. 

Geostrategic  Situation 

Finland's  military  importance  arises  from  its  geographic  posi- 
tion. As  a  small  country,  it  poses  no  military  threat  to  its  neigh- 
bors, but  at  times  in  the  past  larger  powers  have  considered  its 
possession  important  for  their  security.  The  exposed  western 
position  of  the  tsarist  capitEil,  St.  Petersburg,  caused  Russian  offi- 
cials to  strive  for  control  of  Finland.  Later,  Soviet  strategists  were 
likewise  convinced  that  Leningrad's  security  required  Finlaind's  sub- 
jugation and  therefore  mounted  invasions.  In  the  postwar  period, 
Finland's  military  importance  increased,  for  developments  in 
weapons  technology  and  Soviet  basing  policies  caused  the  country 
to  figure  not  only  in  the  strategic  concerns  of  its  giant  eastern  neigh- 
bor, but  also  in  those  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO). 

The  region  itself  was  peaceful.  Sweden,  Finland's  neighbor  to 
the  west,  was  nonaligned  and  had  a  long  tradition  of  friendly  for- 
eign relations.  The  militarily  vital  regions  of  Central  Europe  to 
the  south  were  relatively  distant,  and  they  were  sep2irated  from  Fin- 
land by  the  Baltic  Sea.  In  the  high  north,  where  Finland  and  Nor- 
way had  a  common  border,  Norway  had  prohibited  operations  by 
other  NATO  forces  in  peacetime,  and  it  did  not  permit  nuclear 
weapons  or  Allied  bases  on  its  territory.  Denmark,  likewise  part 
of  NATO,  attached  these  same  restrictions  to  its  membership  in 
the  alliance. 


298 


Finnish-made  130mm  "turret  cannon''  firing  in  reinforced  coastal 

artillery  emplacement 
Courtesy  General  Headquarters,  Finnish  Defense  Forces 

Finland's  military  importance  grew  from  the  fact  that,  although 
it  formed — along  with  Sweden — a  vast  zone  of  neutrality  between 
the  forces  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  and  NATO,  the  country  was  adja- 
cent to  areas  of  cruci2d  importance  to  the  superpowers.  The  Soviet 
Union  maintained  its  traditional  watchfulness  over  the  Baltic  Sea 
and  the  Gulf  of  Finland,  which  controlled  access  to  the  Leningrad 
region  with  its  large  population  and  high  concentration  of  vital 
industry.  Although  the  Soviet  Union  exercised  military  domina- 
tion over  the  southern  shores  of  these  waters,  it  was  highly  sensi- 
tive to  the  position  of  Finland,  which  occupied  the  northern  shore 
and  strategically  significant  island  groups. 

Contiguous  to  Finland's  northern  border  is  the  Kola  Peninsula, 
where  some  of  the  Soviet  Union's  most  important  military  instal- 
lations were  located.  The  only  part  of  the  Soviet  coastline  provid- 
ing ice-free  access  to  the  Atiantic  year  round,  the  peninsula's  harbors 
served  as  home  ports  of  the  Soviet  northern  fleet  and  of  most  of 
its  nuclear  ballistic  missile  submarines  patrolling  the  North  Atlan- 
tic. In  the  event  of  hostilities,  the  Soviets  would  regard  securing 
the  northern  Norwegian  coast  as  essential  to  ensure  that  their  sur- 
face and  submarine  fleets  could  reach  the  North  Atlantic,  where 
they  could  disrupt  major  supply  routes  for  United  States  forces  in 
Europe.  Because  of  the  importance  of  the  Soviet  military  complexes 


299 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

on  the  Kola  Peninsula,  NATO  almost  certainly  would  have  to  view 
them  as  prime  wartime  targets.  Also  crucial  to  the  alliance  would 
be  confining,  in  the  Barents  Sea,  whatever  Soviet  naval  assets  sur- 
vived attack.  Thus,  in  the  event  of  hostilities,  the  superpowers  would 
commit  considerable  military  resources  to  this  region. 

The  official  Finnish  view  held  that  the  country  was  unlikely  to 
be  the  victim  of  an  isolated  attack  upon  its  territory,  but  rather 
that  any  military  action  directed  against  Finland  would  almost  cer- 
tainly have  to  be  part  of  a  wider  conflict  between  East  and  West. 
Finnish  military  planners  did  not  regard  their  country  as  having 
strategic  targets  justifying  military  aggression,  but  they  believed 
that  foreign  powers  might  try  to  seize  Finnish  territory  to  use  it 
as  a  transit  route  to  reach  essential  targets. 

Thus,  Finnish  Lapland  was  regarded  as  a  possible  invasion  route 
for  either  NATO  forces  aiming  at  the  Murmansk  area  or  Soviet 
forces  seeking  to  occupy  northern  Norway.  For  the  Allies,  however, 
the  difficulties  of  mounting  a  land  attack  across  northern  Scandina- 
via against  Soviet  military  bases  would  be  enormous.  For  this  rea- 
son, military  analysts  judged  that  NATO  operations  in  the  area 
would  more  likely  be  air-based  and  sea-based. 

Finnish  strategists  had  traditionally  regarded  the  wide  buffer  zone 
formed  by  Finnish  and  Swedish  air  space  as  a  deterrent  to  attack, 
because  it  increased  the  flight  time  of  attacking  aircraft  to  poten- 
tial targets  and  thereby  reduced  the  operational  time  in  the  target 
area.  Since  the  deployment  of  cruise  missiles  in  the  1980s,  however, 
there  has  been  a  threat  to  the  inviolability  of  Finnish  air  space  that 
did  not  require  intrusions  on  its  land  and  sea  territories.  Soviet 
sensitivity  over  the  cruise  missile  threat  underscored  the  significance 
of  this  problem. 

Military  planners  considered  southern  Finland  and  the  Aland 
Islands  to  be  lesser  strategic  areas,  except  in  the  event  of  a  Soviet 
move  against  southern  Norway  through  Sweden,  and  they  saw  a 
NATO  thrust  against  Leningrad  through  the  Baltic  Sea  as  implau- 
sible. Such  an  operation  would  necessitate  control  of  the  Danish 
Straits  and  of  the  constricted  Baltic  itself  against  strong  Soviet  land, 
naval,  and  air  forces.  Finland  was,  however,  obliged  by  treaty  to 
secure  the  Aland  Islands  in  the  event  of  war  to  prevent  their  mili- 
tary use  by  other  powers.  This  obligation  underscored  another 
aspect  of  Finland's  defense  environment.  War  between  the  power 
blocs  could  well  mecin  a  preemptive  attack  on  Finland  to  secure 
it  and  to  prevent  use  of  its  territory  by  the  enemy. 

Although  Finnish  strategists  did  not  publicly  emphasize  the  mili- 
tary threat  represented  by  the  Soviet  Union,  it  was  evident  that 
the  strong  Soviet  military  presence  near  their  shared  border,  1 ,200 


300 


National  Security 


kilometers  in  length,  was  a  prime  source  of  concern.  According 
to  a  study  by  the  United  States  Department  of  Defense  in  1988, 
Soviet  conventional  forces  assigned  to  the  Northwestern  Theater 
of  Military  Operations,  an  area  that  included  Finland,  consisted 
of  12  divisions,  1,350  tanks,  and  160  tactical  aircraft.  Although 
not  at  full  strength,  these  ground  forces  could  be  mobilized  quick- 
ly for  a  drive  into  southern  Finlamd  as  a  preemptive  move  to  deepen 
Soviet  defenses  of  Leningrad  and  adjacent  areas  in  a  crisis  situation. 

Another  contingency  that  Finnish  planners  needed  to  anticipate 
was  the  crossing  of  northern  Finland  by  Soviet  land  forces  as  part 
of  an  attack  aimed  at  securing  the  coast  of  northern  Norway  and 
thereby  controlling  the  sea  approaches  to  the  Kola  military  com- 
plex. In  the  Pentagon's  judgment,  Soviet  operations  were  likely 
to  include  a  thrust  against  northern  Norway  in  which  ground  forces, 
supported  by  land-based  air  and  naval  amphibious  forces,  would 
try  to  seize  critical  airfields  and  to  destroy  early  warning  instfdla- 
tions.  The  ground  forces  badance  significantiy  favored  the  Soviets 
in  this  area,  and  probably  the  air  force  balsmce  did  as  well.  Such 
an  operation  would,  nevertheless,  be  extremely  arduous  in  view 
of  the  paucity  of  east-west  road  links  and  the  austere  climate  and 
terrain. 

If  Finland  is  unlucky  in  its  strategic  location,  as  a  theater  of  war, 
its  physical  chciracteristics  present  exceptional  conditions  that  heavily 
favor  a  defending  army.  Only  a  few  regions  are  conducive  to  the 
maneuvering  of  modern  ground  forces.  These  are  primarily  in  the 
coastal  areas  of  southern,  southwestern,  and  western  Finland,  where 
the  main  administrative  and  industrial  centers,  a  majority  of  the 
population,  and  the  most  highly  developed  transport  networks  are 
located.  The  vast  regions  of  central  and  eastern  Finland  are  areas 
of  rivers,  lakes,  and  forests.  With  swamps  covering  as  much  as  50 
percent  to  60  percent  of  some  parts  of  this  territory,  military  oper- 
ations would  be  constricted  to  the  few  roads  (see  Geography,  ch. 
2;  Transportation  and  Communications,  ch.  3).  Even  specially 
designed  rough-terrain  vehicles  would  be  greatly  hampered  in  these 
areas. 

In  Lapland,  above  the  Arctic  Circle,  climatic  conditions  are 
especially  severe.  Beginning  in  November,  the  long  Arctic  night 
hampers  winter  activity.  Frost,  snow,  and  cold  (-30°C  to  -35°C) 
can  paralyze  the  operations  of  large  bodies  of  troops  and  their  air 
support,  unless  they  are  specially  trained  and  equipped.  In  moun- 
tainous parts  of  Lapland,  ground  operations  would  also  be  forced 
in  the  direction  of  the  few  routes  through  passes,  and  the  more  open 
northern  regions  provide  little  cover  for  ground  forces. 

An  attack  on  Finland  by  sea  would  be  severely  hampered  by  the 


301 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


jagged  coastline  of  shallow  bays,  rocks,  and  clusters  of  islands.  The 
few  narrow  ship  passages  would  be  heavily  defended  by  modern 
coast  artillery  emplaced  on  cliffs,  by  highly  maneuverable  missile 
boats,  and  by  extensive  minefields.  The  thick  ice  cover  would  vir- 
tually preclude  the  winter  operation  of  warships  near  Finnish  ter- 
ritorial waters. 

Concepts  of  National  Security 

An  essential  ingredient  in  Finnish  strategic  planning  was  to 
establish  the  perception  that  the  nation  had  the  will  and  the  capa- 
bility to  defend  its  territorial  integrity  if  conflict  broke  out.  To  avoid 
giving  the  Soviet  Union  a  pretext  for  intervention,  Finland  con- 
sidered it  vital  to  demonstrate  to  Moscow  that  it  could  fully  meet 
its  obligations  under  the  FCMA  treaty.  Similarly,  Finland  needed 
to  convince  Norway,  together  with  its  NATO  partners  and  Sweden, 
that  Finnish  territory  would  not  be  used  as  a  base  for  threatening 
them  militarily.  The  primary  task,  therefore,  was  to  maintain  a 
credible  force  for  repelling  a  limited  conventionEil  attack  upon  the 
country  during  the  course  of  a  wider  conflict. 

Finland's  traditional  policy  was  to  defend  the  entire  country.  It 
believed  that  its  level  of  military  preparedness  rendered  unlikely 
the  success  of  an  airborne  surprise  attack  against  administrative 
centers  and  other  key  areas.  It  planned  to  take  advantage  of  its 
relatively  large  underpopulated  expanses  and  of  the  special  terrain 
conditions  to  pursue  a  strategy  of  defense  in  depth  in  order  to  frus- 
trate an  invader.  Total  defeat  of  an  enemy  was  not  expected.  The 
Finns  hoped  to  demonstrate  that  any  effort  to  secure  their  territory 
as  a  base  for  military  operations  elsewhere  would  not  be  profitable 
compared  to  the  time  and  sacrifices  involved.  Despite  Finland's 
small  population,  military  planners  assumed  an  enemy  would  have 
most  of  its  forces  employed  elsewhere  and  would  be  able  to  use 
only  some  of  its  military  assets  against  Finland;  hence,  the  coun- 
try's limited  aims  could  be  achieved.  The  primary  burden  for 
thwarting  an  attack  directed  through  Finnish  territory  would  fall 
upon  the  army. 

The  heightened  strategic  significance  of  the  far  northern  regions 
of  Europe  since  the  1960s  has  accentuated  the  importance  of 
Lapland's  defenses.  In  the  late  1980s,  first-line  Finnish  troops  were 
being  specially  equipped  to  take  advantage  of  the  harsh  conditions 
of  terrain,  climate,  and  winter  darkness  encountered  there.  Peace- 
time force  deployment  in  Lapland  had  been  reinforced  during 
the  1980s  with  the  goal  of  stationing  half  of  Finland's  intercep- 
tor aircraft  and  nearly  one-third  of  its  ground  forces  there.  This 


302 


National  Security 


deployment  was  considered  compatible  with  the  force  strengths  in 
northern  Sweden  and  in  northern  Norway. 

Reacting  to  hints  by  the  Soviets  that  the  threat  of  cruise  missiles 
fired  from  United  States  submarines  or  from  West  European  bases 
justified  joint  defensive  measures,  Finnish  leaders  have  strongly 
underscored  their  determination  to  act  on  their  own  to  resist  in- 
trusion of  Finnish  air  space  in  any  form.  Although  advanced  ra- 
dar, fire  control,  and  surface-to-air  missile  systems  were  being 
acquired,  the  Soviet  embassy  in  Helsinki  asserted  in  mid- 1988  that 
Finland  and  Sweden  must  do  still  more  to  improve  their  air 
defenses. 

Finland's  mobilization  system  was  characterized  by  a  flexibility 
that  enabled  the  degree  of  preparedness  to  be  stepped  up  as  re- 
quired to  meet  a  particular  crisis  situation  or  threat.  The  first  forces 
called  up  for  mobilization  would  be  the  Fast  Deployment  Forces, 
consisting  of  the  most  mobile  and  powerful  army  elements,  together 
with  almost  all  navy,  air  force.  Frontier  Guard  (Rajavartiolaitos — 
RVL)  units,  and  assorted  local  forces.  The  Fast  Deployment  Forces 
would  be  able  to  reach  peak  strength — about  250,000  men,  130,000 
of  whom  would  be  ground  forces — in  two  to  three  days.  The  Fast 
Deployment  Forces  (also  called  Protective  Forces)  would  have  as 
their  chief  duty  a  protecting  or  covering  mission  that  would  allow 
the  total  mobilization  in  seven  days  of  700,000  men,  including 
500,000  ground  forces. 

Finnish  military  doctrine  divided  forces  into  gener2il  forces,  lo- 
cal forces,  and  support  forces  once  full  mobilization  was  achieved. 
General  forces  were  the  best  and  most  powerfully  equipped  units 
of  all  the  services,  and  the  elements  most  suited  for  decisive  massed 
attacks.  In  the  late  1980s,  these  forces  were  estimated  at  about 
250,000  men.  In  addition  to  the  professional  cadre,  local  forces  con- 
sisted of  older  reservists.  It  was  projected  that  they,  being  less  heavily 
armed,  would  be  used  in  guerrilla  operations,  often  behind  the  lines 
in  areas  overrun  by  the  enemy.  When  needed,  local  forces  could 
combine  with  general  forces  for  intense  batdes  against  a  weakened 
and  encircled  enemy.  Support  forces  assisted  the  other  forces  with 
logistics,  supplies,  and  other  requirements. 

During  peacetime,  standing  ground,  sea,  and  air  forces,  in  keep- 
ing with  Finland's  neutral  posture,  were  not  concentrated  against 
any  single  potential  threat  but  were  deployed  to  deal  with  inva- 
sion from  any  direction.  Defense  was  predicated  on  rapid  mobili- 
zation of  the  country's  general  forces  and  on  their  rapid  deployment 
to  active  fronts.  Rather  than  a  static  defense,  for  which  resources 
were  insufficient,  a  strategy  of  maneuver  was  contemplated.  A 
powerful  frontal  attack  would  be  met  by  a  "deep  zone"  defense. 


303 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

taking  fullest  advantage  of  geographical  features  and  climatic  con- 
ditions. Tactics  of  delay  and  attrition  would  be  employed  to  pre- 
vent an  aggressor  from  reaching  vital  areas.  As  the  attacker's  lines 
of  communication  lengthened,  concentrated  counterattacks  would 
be  launched  under  conditions  favoring  the  more  lighdy  armed  Fin- 
nish units.  In  areas  seized  by  the  invader,  loccd  forces  would  con- 
tinue to  conduct  guerrilla-type  operations,  such  as  ambushes, 
limited  raids  on  the  enemy's  supply  lines,  mining  of  roads,  and 
strikes  against  logistics  centers.  In  the  1980s,  military  planners 
modified  this  flexible  defense  somewhat,  concluding  that  certain 
areas  were  so  vital  to  the  country's  survival  that  they  were  to  be 
held  at  all  costs.  Defense  of  southern  Finland  and  Helsinki,  the 
Aland  Islands,  and  Lapland  was  to  be  so  intense  that  they  would 
never  be  ceded  in  their  entirety  to  enemy  control. 

The  local  defense  forces  and  the  RVL  would  be  expected  to  oper- 
ate as  self-contained  units  carrying  out  peripheral  attacks  in  rela- 
tive isolation.  The  object  would  be  to  sap  the  strength  of  the 
aggressor  as  he  moved  deeper  into  the  country,  denying  the  use 
of  roads,  and,  after  combat  units  were  cut  off  from  supplies  and 
reinforcements,  segmenting  the  fighting.  Local  and  general  forces 
could  then  be  brought  to  bear  in  devastating  strikes  against  the 
invader.  After  suffering  costly  damage  over  a  protracted  period, 
the  aggressor  country  would  find  it  expedient  to  abandon  its  origi- 
nal objectives  and  to  accept  a  negotiated  settlement. 

Finland  recognized  that  the  outbreak  of  general  war  in  Europe 
might  result  in  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons.  A  considerable  effort 
was  therefore  undertaken  to  prepare  the  civilian  population  against 
the  eventuality  of  nuclear  warfare  (see  Civil  Defense,  this  ch.).  Fin- 
land's limited  resources  did  not  permit  full  preparation  against 
nuclear  Wcirfare,  however,  and  defense  planners  based  their  efforts 
on  the  assumption  that  any  threat  to  the  country  would  be  of  a 
conventional  nature.  Political  measures  were  2dso  undertaken  to 
minimize  the  likelihood  of  exposure  to  nuclear  attack.  Finland's 
active  promotion  of  comprehensive  disarmament  measures  and  of 
a  Nordic  Nuclear- Weapons-Free  Zone  (NWFZ)  was  premised  on 
the  belief  that,  if  the  Nordic  countries  had  no  nuclear  weapons  on 
their  territories,  the  superpowers  might  refrain  from  including 
nuclear  arms  in  their  strategic  plans  affecting  those  terrotories  (see 
Neutrality,  ch.  4).  The  objection  to  such  a  commitment,  in  the 
view  of  Western  defense  planners,  was  that  it  would  deny  NATO 
the  nuclear  option  in  defense  of  Norway  and  Denmark  while  plac- 
ing no  restrictions  on  Soviet  nuclear  forces  in  the  Kola  Peninsula 
or  on  naval  vessels  in  the  Baltic  Sea. 


304 


National  Security 


The  Armed  Forces 

Authority  over  national  defense  rested  with  the  president  as  the 
supreme  commander  of  the  Defense  Forces.  The  president  exer- 
cised the  highest  decision-m2iking  responsibility,  including  the  power 
to  declare  war  2ind  to  make  peace  with  the  consent  of  the  Eduskunta 
(parliament),  to  order  mobilization,  and  to  issue  orders  directly 
to  the  commander  in  chief  of  the  Defense  Forces.  A  decree  issued 
in  1957  established  a  Defense  Council  with  a  dual  function  as  the 
supreme  planning  and  coordinating  organ  and  as  the  president's 
consultative  arm  in  matters  affecting  the  defense  of  the  country. 
The  prime  minister  acted  as  chairman  of  the  Defense  Council  if 
the  president  were  not  present.  Its  other  members  were  the  ministers 
of  defense,  foreign  affairs,  finance,  interior,  and  trade  and  indus- 
try; the  commander  in  chief  of  the  Defense  Forces;  and  the  chief 
of  the  General  Staff.  Other  ministers  could  be  called  upon  to  serve 
temporarily  (see  fig.  20).  The  Defense  Council  reviewed  basic 
defense  plans  for  wartime,  deliberated  on  the  financing  of  nation- 
al defense,  and  directed  preparations  for  national  security  in  areas 
other  than  military  readiness. 

Parliaimentary  oversight  W2is  exercised  through  ad  hoc  parliamen- 
tary defense  committees,  which  had  been  convened  in  1971 ,  in  1976, 
and  in  1981  to  assess  basic  issues  of  strategy,  equipment,  and  mis- 
sions. Recommendations  of  the  committees  had  an  important  bear- 
ing on  defense  policy  and  on  future  budget  allocations.  Unlike  the 
Defense  Council,  all  parties  represented  in  parliament  were  invit- 
ed to  participate.  A  parliamentary  defense  commission,  acting 
within  narrower  terms  of  reference  than  parliamentary  defense  com- 
mittees, was  convened  in  1986.  In  1988  the  government  considered 
setting  up  a  permanent  parliamentary  council  on  defense,  but  no 
action  had  been  taken  by  the  year's  end.  The  parliamentary  com- 
mittees had  been  useful  in  helping  to  develop  a  national  consensus 
on  security  policies  and  on  the  commitment  of  resources  to  defense. 
The  representatives  sitting  on  the  committees  tended  to  be  among 
those  most  sympathetic  to  the  needs  of  the  military.  Government 
leaders  felt,  however,  that  the  committees  often  plunged  too  far 
into  sensitive  strategic  matters  and  threat  scenarios.  Their  budge- 
tary recommendations  zdso  tended  to  be  generous,  leaving  the  mili- 
tary disgruntled  when  the  proposed  resources  could  not  be  found. 
(One  notable  exception  occurred  in  1981,  when  the  procurement 
recommendations  of  the  Third  Parliamentary  Defense  Commit- 
tee were  Icirgely  realized,  in  part  because  of  the  special  circumstances 
of  a  trade  imbalance  that  made  possible  large  arms  purchases  from 
the  Soviet  Union.) 


305 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


306 


National  Security 


The  Ministry  of  Defense  supervised  the  preparation  of  legisla- 
tion affecting  national  defense,  the  submission  of  the  annual  defense 
budget,  the  drafting  of  defense  policies  in  accordance  with  princi- 
ples defined  by  the  national  leadership,  and  the  implementation 
of  policies  approved  by  the  government  and  the  parliament.  The 
minister  of  defense  had  mainly  administrative  responsibilities,  with 
limited  influence  over  major  military  policy  issues.  His  deputy, 
customarily  a  military  officer  of  three-star  rank,  exercised  an 
important  role  within  the  ministry. 

Command  Structure 

The  commander  in  chief  of  the  Defense  Forces  was  directiy  subor- 
dinate to  the  president  in  matters  of  military  command,  principally 
questions  of  operations  and  training.  He  was  responsible  for  issu- 
ing military  orders  for  the  preparation  and  maintenance  of  readi- 
ness of  the  Defense  Forces,  for  ensuring  proper  command  relation- 
ships, and  for  coordinating  all  branches  of  the  armed  forces  in  per- 
sonnel matters.  He  made  recommendations  to  the  president  on  the 
organization  of  military  commands  and  on  appointments. 

The  peacetime  defense  organization  was  structured  around 
decentralized  and  autonomous  military  areas  and  districts.  There 
were  seven  military  areas  and  twenty-three  military  districts  as  of 
early  1989,  although  the  government  was  considering  reducing  the 
number  of  military  areas  to  five  and  reducing  the  districts  to  between 
fifteen  and  seventeen.  Each  military  area  comprised  two  to  five 
military  districts.  The  military  area  commander,  a  major  general 
or  lieutenant  general  in  peacetime,  exercised  independent  control 
of  all  military  affairs  within  his  region,  including  the  maintenance 
of  readiness,  training  of  conscripts  and  reservists,  maintenance  of 
a  functional  mobilization  system,  wartime  logistics  preparations, 
cooperation  with  civilian  authorities,  and  area  defense  planning. 
The  commander  in  chief,  who  retained  planning  control  of  the  navy 
and  the  air  force,  could  order  the  commanders  of  these  two  ser- 
vices to  support  a  given  area  command,  or  he  could  call  upon  the 
general  forces  of  one  military  area  to  supply  reinforcements  to 
another  military  area. 

The  authority  of  the  military  district  commander  was  limited 
in  peacetime  to  planning  for  crisis  or  wartime  contingencies,  oper- 
ating the  conscript  and  reserve  organizations  (including  call-ups 
and  classification  for  military  service),  conducting  refresher  train- 
ing, and  maintaining  the  mobilization  system.  Under  wartime  con- 
ditions, the  district  commander  would  mobilize  reserve  brigades 
and  battalions  into  the  general  forces  in  his  district  and  would 


307 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


command  local  force  operations  unless  command  was  assumed  by 
a  general  forces  headquarters. 

Army 

Finland's  defense  doctrine  foresaw  that  the  army  (Maavoimat) 
would  bear  the  brunt  of  repelling  an  invasion  or  any  violation  of 
Finnish  territorial  integrity  during  a  period  of  hostilities.  Conse- 
quently, maintenance  of  sufficient  peacetime  readiness  of  ground 
forces  enjoyed  high  priority.  The  importance  assigned  to  territorial 
defense  was  reflected  in  the  command  structure,  which  integrated 
army  headquarters  with  general  headquarters.  Navy  and  air  force 
headquarters  were  on  a  lower  level,  parallel  with  the  seven  mili- 
tary area  commands. 

As  of  1988,  the  active-duty  ground  forces  consisted  of  30,000 
troops,  of  which  22,300  were  conscripts.  They  were  organized  into 
8  brigades,  each  with  a  reduced  peacetime  strength  of  1,500  to 
2,000,  together  with  7  independent  infantry  battalions  with  strengths 
of  up  to  500  each,  supported  by  artillery,  antiaircraft,  engineer, 
special  forces,  signals,  and  transport  units  of  varying  sizes.  Under 
peacetime  conditions,  the  brigade  was  the  basic  ground  forces  unit; 
there  were  no  divisions  or  corps.  In  wartime,  2  or  more  brigades 
plus  a  number  of  detached  battalions  could  be  combined  to  form 
a  corps  of  15,000  to  30,000  tailored  to  a  particular  operation. 

Upon  mobilization,  the  first-line  army  forces,  numbering  about 
130,000  and  including  younger  reservists  with  recent  training, 
would  be  deployed  initially.  In  accordance  with  a  fifteen-year 
(1981-96)  modernization  program,  the  best  equipped  of  these  units 
were  known  as  Brigade  90  forces.  The  program  provides  for  an 
eventual  ten  to  fifteen  brigades.  The  remaining  first-line  units, 
known  as  Brigade  80  forces,  were  believed  to  number  ten  to  fifteen 
brigades  when  mobilized.  They  were  similarly  organized,  but  they 
had  less  advanced  equipment.  Although  details  were  lacking, 
analysts  believed  that  no  more  than  one  or  two  brigades  met  Brigade 
90  standards  as  of  late  1988. 

In  the  north,  the  Brigade  90  forces  would  be  jaeger  (ranger) 
brigades  equipped  with  tracked  all-terrain  vehicles,  such  as  the 
Finnish-built  NA-140.  In  central  Finland,  the  jaeger  brigades  would 
have  many  Finnish  A- 1 80  Pasi  wheeled  armored  personnel  carri- 
ers and  other  light  armored  vehicles.  Armored  Brigade  90s  in  the 
south  would  have  the  T-72  main  battle  tank,  while  Brigade  80  ele- 
ments would  have  modernized  T-55  tanks;  both  are  Soviet  built 
(see  table  22,  Appendix  A). 

A  jaeger  Brigade  90  consisted  of  four  battalions,  each  with  a  com- 
plement of  about  1,000  troops  and  each  possessing  some  artillery 


308 


National  Security 


and  antitank  capabilities.  A  battalion  comprised  four  rifle  compa- 
nies. In  addition  to  small  arms,  its  principal  weapons  were  81mm 
and  120mm  mortars,  recoilless  antitank  rifles,  and  shoulder-fired 
antitank  missiles.  The  Brigade  90  antitank  company  was  equipped 
with  truck-mounted,  wire- guided  missiles.  A  brigade  also  included 
two  artillery  battalions,  one  equipped  with  twelve  122mm  howit- 
zers and  the  other  with  twelve  155mm  howitzers,  all  towed  by 
tracked  vehicles.  The  brigade  air  defense  battalion  consisted  of 
Soviet  SA-14  shoulder-fired  missiles  and  23mm  antiaircraft  guns, 
supported  by  low-level  radar  and  by  armored  fire  control  systems. 
The  brigade  was  supported  by  an  engineering  battalion  with  a 
strong  minelaying  unit,  and  headquarters,  signals,  and  support 
companies. 

Two  coast  artillery  regiments  and  three  independent  battal- 
ions occupied  ten  principal  hardened  gun  positions,  known  as 
"fortresses,"  protecting  key  shipping  lanes  of  the  southern  coast. 
These  fixed  positions,  with  batteries  of  turret-mounted  100mm  and 
130mm  guns,  had  been  blasted  out  of  granite  clifl"s.  They  were  sup- 
ported by  mobile  coast  artillery  battalions  to  which,  in  1988,  were 
being  added  mobile  Swedish  RBS-15  antiship  missUes  mounted 
on  all-terrain  trucks. 

Antiaircraft  defenses  were  the  responsibility  of  the  army,  close- 
ly coordinated  with  the  air  force.  The  principal  weapon  was  the 
Soviet  SA-3  Goa  truck-mounted  surface-to-air  missile.  In  1988 
negotiations  were  reportedly  underway  with  France  for  the  pur- 
chase of  Crotale  missile  launchers  and  fire  control  systems  to  be 
mounted  on  the  A- 180  Pasi  armored  vehicle  for  medium-range 
point  defense. 

In  peacetime,  trained  garrison  forces  that  could  be  formed  into 
operational  units  within  hours  totaled  about  10,500  (8,000  army 
and  2,500  RVL).  In  an  emergency,  the  existing  brigades  and 
independent  battalions  could  be  brought  up  to  a  wartime  strength 
of  some  70,000  within  12  to  24  hours.  In  the  event  of  an  acute 
crisis  or  an  attack  on  the  country,  planners  anticipated  that  the 
Fast  Deployment  Forces — consisting  of  the  most  mobile  and  power- 
ful army  elements,  together  with  almost  all  navy,  air  force,  and 
RVL  units,  and  key  local  force  units  in  border  areas — would  be 
mobilized.  The  army  complement  of  the  Fast  Deployment  Forces 
amounted  to  about  130,000  and  could  be  activated  in  two  to  three 
days. 

Details  on  the  organizational  pattern  of  the  fuUy  mobilized  army 
were  not  made  public.  Tomas  Ries,  a  specialist  in  Nordic  security, 
has  estimated  that  the  army's  share  of  the  general  forces,  that  is, 
the  most  powerful  elements  of  the  Defense  Forces,  numbered 


309 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


perhaps  200,000.  In  combat  these  troops  would  be  organized  into 
20  to  25  brigades;  about  70  independent  light  infantry,  artillery, 
antitank,  and  other  specialized  battsdions  averaging  800  person- 
nel each;  and  some  additional  specialized  forces,  mostly  of  com- 
pany strength.  Many  of  these  units  would  be  equipped  with  older, 
less  sophisticated  weapons,  and  would  include  higher  age-groups 
that  had  not  undergone  recent  training. 

The  army's  share  of  local  forces  would  consist  of  about  250  light 
infantry  battalions,  as  well  as  smaller  specialized  units,  number- 
ing up  to  250,000.  They  would  serve  the  functions  of  local  defense, 
surveillance,  and  guard  duty.  An  important  function  of  the  local 
forces  would  be  to  lay  antivehicular  mines  to  block  the  limited  road 
network.  These  forces  would  be  armed  with  modern  basic  infan- 
try weapons,  supplemented  by  older  light  antitank  weapons,  mor- 
tars, and  vehicles,  including  some  commandeered  from  the  civilian 
sector. 

Support  troops  formed  a  separate  category,  normally  operating 
in  rear  areas,  and  would  not  be  expected  to  take  part  in  combat. 
They  would  carry  out  service,  support,  and  logistical  tasks.  Their 
mobilized  strength  would  be  about  100,000. 

Navy 

The  main  peacetime  mission  of  the  navy  (Merivoimat),  together 
with  the  coast  guard,  was  to  conduct  surveillance  of  territorial  waters 
and  fishing  zones  and  to  identify  violators.  During  a  crisis  situa- 
tion or  hostilities,  the  navy  would  be  called  upon  to  prevent 
unauthorized  use  of  Finland's  territorial  waters,  to  protect  vital 
sea  routes  and  maritime  traffic,  and  to  close  off  its  most  important 
ports.  Treaty  obligations  and  strategic  concerns  made  securing  the 
demilitarized  Aland  Islands  a  key  wartime  mission  of  the  navy. 
This  it  would  do  with  the  help  of  the  army,  coast  artillery,  and 
the  coast  guard.  If  faced  by  an  amphibious  attack,  the  navy's 
objective  would  be  to  wear  down  the  aggressor  and  to  restrict  his 
operations. 

Naval  tasks  would  be  carried  out  in  an  integrated  manner  with 
the  army  coast  artillery  and  the  air  force.  The  shallow  waters  of 
the  coastline,  broken  by  an  extensive  archipelago,  would  facilitate 
the  laying  of  defensive  mines,  which  would  figure  importantly  in 
defense  against  seaborne  invasion.  Although  the  fleet  units  were 
limited  in  size  and  in  weaponry,  their  maineuverability  and  missile- 
based  firepower  could  inflict  damage  on  a  hostile  force  operating 
in  Finnish  waters  and  in  adjacent  sea  areas.  The  precise  form  in 
which  a  naval  threat  might  develop  was  unclear,  because  a  Soviet 
invasion  by  sea  was  unlikely  and  Western  ships  would  be  directly 


310 


Soviet-built  SA-3  GO  A  low-  to  medium-altitude  antiaircraft  missiles 

in  use  by  Finnish  Defense  Forces 
Courtesy  General  Headquarters,  Finnish  Defrnse  Forces 

exposed  to  Soviet  naval  strength  in  the  Baltic,  in  the  event  of  general 
conflict.  By  providing  for  control  over  its  own  coastal  waters, 
however,  Finland  hoped  to  convince  the  Soviets  that  the  Gulf  of 
Finland  would  be  secure  and  that  the  approaches  to  Leningrad 
would  not  be  left  unguarded. 

Under  the  1947  Treaty  of  Paris,  naval  manpower  strength  was 
limited  to  4,500.  In  addition  to  the  overall  limit  of  10,000  tons, 
the  navy  was  not  permitted  to  operate  submarines  or  torpedo  boats. 
As  of  1988,  active  navsd  personnel  numbered  only  2,700,  of  whom 
1 ,300  were  conscripts.  The  largest  vessels  were  two  smzJl  corvettes 
of  660  tons,  each  armed  with  120mm  guns  and  antisubmarine  rocket 
launchers.  Eight  missile  boats  were  armed  with  Swedish  and  Soviet 
ship- to- ship  missile  systems.  Four  more  missile  boats  were  due  to 
be  delivered  in  the  early  1990s.  These  boats  were  supported  by 
inshore  patrol  craft,  together  with  minelaying  and  minesweeping 
vessels  (see  table  23,  Appendix  A). 

In  peacetime  the  main  naval  units  were  organized  into  gunboat, 
missile  boat,  and  mine  warfare  flotillas.  Under  wartime  conditions, 
they  would  be  organized  into  task  forces  with  a  mix  of  vessels  as 
required  for  specific  operations.  The  wartime  task  forces  would  be 
directed  by  the  navy  commander  in  chief  and  would  be  part  of  the 
general  forces.  Naval  assets  operating  with  the  coast  artillery  would 


311 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


be  directed  by  the  commander  of  the  military  area  in  which  they 
were  located  and  would  form  part  of  the  local  forces.  All  three  flotil- 
las were  based  at  the  navy's  operational  headquarters  at  Pansio, 
near  Turku  in  the  southwest,  where  an  archipelago  with  few  naviga- 
ble channels,  guarded  by  coastal  fortifications,  would  present  great 
obstacles  to  an  intruding  naval  force.  The  gunboat  flotilla  consisted 
of  one  corvette  as  a  command  ship  and  the  ten  Tuima  class  missile 
boats  and  Nuoli  class  fast  attack  craft.  The  missile  squadron  con- 
sisted of  the  other  corvette  and  the  four  Helsinki  class  missile  boats. 
The  mine  warfare  squadron  was  made  up  of  the  minelayers  and 
minesweepers.  A  patrol  flotilla,  based  at  Helsinki,  operated  the 
Ruissalo  and  Rihtniemi  class  attack  craft. 

Owing  to  a  serious  manpower  shortage,  only  about  half  of  the 
fleet  was  manned  and  operational  under  peacetime  conditions.  The 
readiness  of  the  remaining  ships  was  reportedly  maintained  at  an 
adequate  level  by  keeping  them  heated,  by  frequently  testing  their 
systems,  and  by  rotating  them  into  active  service. 

During  a  period  of  crisis  or  conflict,  the  Coast  Guard,  which 
was  part  of  the  RVL,  would  be  integrated  into  the  navy.  Several 
of  its  larger  patrol  craft  of  the  Tursas  and  Kiisla  class  were  fitted 
with  antisubmarine  warfare  weapons.  A  large  number  of  patrol 
boats  were  equipped  with  submarine  tracking  gear. 

Air  Force 

The  peacetime  missions  of  the  air  force  (Ilmavoimat)  were  the 
patrolling  of  Finnish  air  space  and  the  surveillance,  identification, 
and  interception  of  intruding  aircraft.  In  an  average  year,  ten  to 
twenty  violations  of  Finnish  air  space  were  detected.  If  conflict  de- 
veloped in  the  region,  the  air  force  would  have  the  tasks  of  preserv- 
ing territorial  integrity,  preventing  overflight  of  hostile  planes  and 
missiles,  preventing  Finnish  territory  from  being  used  as  a  base 
for  attack,  and  supporting  army  and  navy  operations.  The  pro- 
tection of  Finnish  air  space  in  the  event  of  East-West  hostilities  was 
considered  a  highly  salient  aspect  of  the  air  force  role.  The  possi- 
bility that  Finnish  air  space  would  be  violated  on  the  flight  paths 
of  bombers  and  cruise  missiles  of  NATO  and  Warsaw  Pact  forces 
was  an  issue  of  intense  concern.  As  of  1988,  Finland  was  in  the 
process  of  acquiring  ftirther  capability  to  detect,  to  intercept,  and 
to  destroy  cruise  missiles  crossing  Finnish  territory. 

To  fulfill  these  missions,  Finland  had  given  priority  in  the  late 
1970s  to  the  upgrading  of  its  interceptor  and  reconnaissance  capa- 
bilities. Its  three  combat  air  squadrons  were  equipped  with  Soviet 
MiG-21bis  and  Swedish  Saab  J-35  Draken  fighters.  The  forty-seven 
Hawk  Mk-51s  purchased  from  Britain  for  advanced  training 


312 


National  Security 


and  reconnaissance  were  not  counted  as  combat  aircraft  under  the 
limits  prescribed  by  the  1947  peace  treaty,  but  they  could  be  fitted 
with  racks  for  bombs,  rockets,  and  missiles  for  use  as  hght  attack 
aircraft.  Air  force  transport  capability  was  limited,  consisting 
primarily  of  three  Dutch  F-27  Fokkers  and  six  Soviet  Mi-8  heUcop- 
ters  (see  table  24,  Appendix  A). 

Air  force  headquarters  was  located  at  Tikkakoski  in  central  Fin- 
land. The  country  was  divided  into  three  air  defense  regions  (see 
fig.  21).  Each  air  defense  region  was  the  operational  zone  of  an 
air  wing,  functioning  in  coordination  with  the  corresponding  mili- 
tary areas.  Each  of  the  three  command  centers  was  individually 
responsible  for  its  regional  air  defense,  based  on  directives  issued 
by  the  air  staff.  One  fighter  squadron  was  assigned  to  each  wing, 
but  the  necessary  basing  and  support  infrastructure  was  in  place 
to  enable  the  air  force  commander  to  concentrate  all  air  force 
resources  in  a  single  region  if  necessary. 

As  of  1988,  the  Lapland  wing,  consisting  of  eighteen  Drakens, 
was  based  at  the  joint  civilian-military  airfield  near  Rovaniemi; 
the  wing's  headquarters  were  in  a  nearby  hardened  shelter  com- 
plex. The  Satakunta  wing,  with  twelve  Drsikens  based  at  Tampere- 
Pirkkala,  was  responsible  for  southwestern  Finlcind.  All  of  the  wing's 
command  facilities,  workshops,  and  aircraft  shelters  were  hardened, 
having  been  blasted  out  of  granite  cliffs.  Defense  of  southeastern 
Finland  came  under  the  Karelian  wing,  which  had  a  squadron  of 
thirty  MiG-21bis  plus  several  Hawks  for  training  and  patrol  duties, 
operating  from  Kuopio-Rissala.  All  three  wings  had  facilities  in 
place  permitting  the  use  of  alternative  military  and  civilian  airfields, 
as  well  as  prepared  highway  strips. 

In  addition  to  the  three  combat  squadrons  based  at  wing  head- 
quarters, the  transport  squadron  was  based  at  Kouvola-Utti  and 
the  training  squadron  was  based  at  Luonetjarvi,  adjacent  to  the 
flying  school  at  Kauhava.  Primary  air  surveillance  was  carried  out 
by  a  fixed  long-range  radar  system  supplemented  by  mobile  low- 
altitude  radar,  fixed  in  peacetime,  but  transportable  to  concealed, 
hardened  sites  in  wartime.  The  civilian  air  control  network  was 
also  closely  linked  to  the  military  system.  Automatic  long-range 
radar,  ordered  in  1988  from  the  French  firm  of  Thomson-CSF, 
will  be  installed  at  six  or  seven  sites,  including  one  in  the  far  north 
at  Kaamanen  that  will  extend  surveillance  over  the  Arctic  Ocean 
and  the  Kola  Peninsula. 

Flight  training  was  conducted  at  the  Air  Force  Academy  at  Kau- 
hava. The  Valmet  L-70  Vinka  was  used  for  primary  training  (forty- 
five  hours  of  flight  time).  Students  then  made  the  transition  to  jet 
training  on  the  Hawk  (100  hours  of  flight  time),  preceded  by 


313 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  21.  Air  and  Coastal  Defenses,  1988 


314 


National  Security 


considerable  practice  on  flight  simulators.  An  intermediate  train- 
er was  not  considered  necessary.  Conversion  to  the  Draken  or  the 
MiG-21  and  advanced  tactical  training  were  carried  out  after  as- 
signment to  the  fighter  squadrons.  A  fully  qualified  interceptor  pilot 
underwent  a  total  of  seven  years  of  preparation.  More  pilots  were 
being  trained  than  Finland  needed  for  its  existing  combat  aircraft. 
Moreover,  basing  and  logistical  facilities  were  sufficient  for  about 
three  times  as  many  combat  aircraft  as  were  in  the  peacetime 
inventory. 

Conscription  and  Reserve  Duty 

All  Finnish  males  were  liable  for  military  service  between  the 
ages  of  seventeen  and  sixty.  The  call-up  for  active  duty  normally 
occurred  at  the  age  of  twenty,  although  students  could  postpone 
service  until  completion  of  their  education.  Over  90  percent  of 
young  men  reaching  military  age  actually  entered  the  Defense 
Forces,  a  rate  believed  to  be  the  highest  of  all  Western  countries. 
There  had  traditionally  been  three  conscript  contingents  during 
the  course  of  a  year,  in  February,  in  June,  and  in  October,  but 
in  1989  these  were  to  be  reduced  to  five  call-ups  every  two  years, 
owing  to  the  decline  in  the  numbers  coming  of  age.  For  the  same 
reason,  the  normal  age  for  entering  the  service  was  to  be  reduced 
to  nineteen.  About  38,000  conscripts  were  trained  annually,  al- 
though the  decreased  birth  rate  would  result  in  as  few  as  about 
26,300  inductees  by  1993,  stabilizing  at  that  level.  As  a  consequence, 
the  number  of  reservists  of  all  categories,  which  had  been  main- 
tained at  about  700,000,  would  taper  off  to  about  600,000  during 
the  1990s. 

Prior  to  1987,  conscientious  objectors  had  been  permitted  to  serve 
in  the  military  in  a  noncombatant  capacity  for  eleven  months,  or 
in  civilian  social  service  for  twelve  months.  Legislation  enacted  in 
that  year,  however,  required  a  conscientious  objector  to  serve  in 
alternative  civilian  service  for  sixteen  months,  twice  the  length  of 
minimum  military  service.  A  number  of  objectors,  regarding  the 
new  law  as  a  form  of  punishment,  did  not  accept  these  conditions, 
and  they  were  sentenced  to  prison  terms. 

Women  were  not  accepted  in  the  Defense  Forces,  although  the 
tightened  manpower  situation  had  provoked  discussion  of  mea- 
sures to  incorporate  women  into  training  programs  on  a  volun- 
tary basis  to  handle  nonmilitary  tasks  in  an  emergency.  About  7,000 
women  were  employed  by  the  Defense  Forces,  mainly  in  clerical 
positions  and  as  nurses.  A  considerable  number  were  used  by  the 
air  force  as  radar  monitors  in  remote  areas.  Women  employees 
wore  uniforms,  but  they  did  not  receive  military  training  or  carry 


315 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


weapons  and  had  little  opportunity  for  career  adv2incement. 

Conscripts  were  assigned  upon  induction  to  a  particular  branch 
or  corps  of  service,  depending  upon  existing  personnel  require- 
ments, although  personal  preferences  were  respected  to  the  extent 
possible.  The  National  Conscription  Act  of  1950  set  the  duration 
of  Service  for  ordinary  conscripts  at  240  days  (8  months)  and  for 
reserve  officers  and  NCOs  at  330  days  (11  months).  Certain 
specialists  and  naval  conscripts  also  served  for  330  days.  About  48 
percent  of  the  total  intake  of  conscripts  served  for  the  longer  period. 
In  1988  the  military  announced  that  a  separate  category  of  weapons 
specialists  would  be  designated  to  serve  for  nine  and  one-half 
months. 

Service  in  the  reserves  was  obligatory  after  the  completion  of 
active  duty.  For  officers  and  NCOs,  active  reserve  duty  continued 
until  age  sixty;  and  for  others,  until  age  fifty.  Those  who  completed 
their  active  reserve  obligation  at  age  fifty  were  listed  in  class  one 
of  the  auxiliary  reserve  until  age  sixty  when  all  reserve  obligations 
ended.  Those  exempted  from  active  duty  on  grounds  of  disability 
were  assigned  to  class  two  of  the  auxiliary  reserve,  and  those  aged 
seventeen  to  twenty  without  military  training  were  listed  in  class 
three. 

Until  the  late  1970s,  annual  training  of  reservists  was  neglected 
because  of  budgetary  pressures.  Efforts  were  underway  in  the  1980s 
to  improve  the  situation  in  order  to  compensate  for  the  declining 
intake  of  conscripts  and  to  ensure  that  reservists  acquired  some 
familiarity  with  the  new  and  more  complex  equipment  being 
introduced.  The  number  of  reservists  undergoing  annual  training 
increased  from  30,000  in  1979  to  nearly  50,000  in  1988.  The  rela- 
tively infrequent  and  brief  periods  of  reserve  training  were  still  con- 
sidered insufficient  by  some  observers,  however.  They  noted  that 
Switzerland,  adthough  it  required  a  shorter  period  of  initial  ser- 
vice, trained  far  more  reservists  each  year  by  longer  and  more  fre- 
quent refresher  call-ups. 

Troops  assigned  to  the  Fast  Deployment  Forces  could  expect  to 
be  called  for  refresher  training  at  least  every  fifth  year;  those  in 
some  specicdist  categories  were  called  up  more  often.  Other  reserv- 
ists, generally  those  in  higher  age  brackets,  were  not  scheduled  for 
training  unless  their  assigned  categories  were  changed.  Call-ups 
were  on  a  battalion  basis,  and  reservists  exercised  their  wartime 
tasks  for  a  period  of  seven  to  ten  days.  The  cumulative  total  peri- 
od of  active  duty  for  reserve  officers  could  not  exceed  100  days; 
for  reserve  NCOs,  75  days;  and  for  privates,  40  days. 


316 


Summer  and  winter  military  exercises  in  Lapland 
Courtesy  General  Headquarters,  Finnish  Defense  Forces 


317 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Training  and  Education 

All  men  serving  in  the  Finnish  Defense  Forces,  even  those  aspir- 
ing to  become  career  or  reserve  officers,  underwent  basic  conscript 
training.  Army  training  was  conducted  within  the  unit  to  which 
the  conscript  was  assigned.  The  standard  initial  training  phase  of 
twelve  weeks  was  followed  by  twelve  to  nineteen  weeks  of  individu- 
alized training  in  infantry,  field  artillery,  coast  artillery,  antiair- 
craft, signals,  or  engineering  skills.  An  ordinary  army  conscript's 
service  concluded  with  a  refresher  period  of  several  weeks,  com- 
posed of  advanced  unit  training  and  a  field  exercise  that  involved 
several  units  of  the  same  conscript  contingent.  Training  programs 
stressed  the  development  of  combat  motivation,  physical  fitness, 
marksmanship,  and  the  ability  to  maneuver  and  to  survive  in  in- 
dependent guerrilla  operations  under  difficult  conditions.  Basic 
training  was  rigorous,  and  conscripts  spent  at  least  sixty  nights  out- 
side, even  during  winter.  Evaluations  by  the  conscripts  of  the  ef- 
fectiveness of  the  training  and  of  the  NCO  training  staff  were  gener- 
ally favorable. 

Those  conscripts  who  excelled  in  the  initial  stages  could  apply 
for  a  special  fifteen-week  period  of  training  as  reserve  NCOs,  after 
which  they  completed  their  active  military  service  as  squad  lead- 
ers. Reserve  officer  candidates  selected  during  the  NCO  training 
phase  pursued  the  first  eight  weeks  of  NCO  training,  followed  by 
a  further  fourteen  weeks  of  reserve  officer  training.  This  included 
six  weeks  of  basic  training  as  platoon  leaders  and  three  weeks  of 
practice  in  the  coordinated  operation  of  various  weapons  units.  After 
completion  of  training,  the  reserve  officer  candidates  returned  to 
their  original  units  for  thirteen  weeks  of  service  as  trainers.  At  the 
conclusion  of  their  eleven  months  of  service,  they  were  commis- 
sioned as  second  lieutenants.  In  the  late  1980s,  about  25  percent 
of  each  class  of  conscripts  became  NCOs  and  about  7  percent 
become  officers. 

The  first  two  years  of  a  three-year  educational  progr2im  for  C2ireer 
officer  candidates  were  conducted  at  the  Military  Academy  at  San- 
tahamina  near  Helsinki  for  all  three  branches  of  the  armed  forces 
and  for  the  RVL.  Army  cadets  attended  a  school  in  their  chosen 
arms  specialty  during  the  third  year.  Naval  cadets  spent  the  third 
year  of  training  at  the  Naval  Academy  at  Helsinki.  Air  cadets  at- 
tended the  Air  Force  Academy  at  Kauhava  for  the  third  year  of 
training.  The  Defense  Forces  announced  in  1988  that  the  acade- 
my's curriculum  would  be  revised  to  include  nonmilitary  subjects 
so  that  its  graduates  would  have  the  equivalent  of  a  university-level 


318 


National  Security 


degree.  The  duration  of  the  course  would  probably  be  lengthened 
to  three  and  one-half  years.  Entry  was  by  examination  among  those 
who  had  completed  the  reserve  officer  program  during  their  con- 
script service. 

Army  graduates  of  the  Military  Academy  were  commissioned 
as  first  lieutenants  (with  promotion  to  senior  lieutenant  within  a 
year),  served  as  instructors  for  three  or  four  years,  and  then  at- 
tended an  eight-month  to  ten-month  course  that  normzJly  led  to 
the  rank  of  captain  within  two  to  three  years.  Six  to  eight  years 
after  taking  the  captains'  course,  officers  could  take  examinations 
leading  to  the  two-year  (three-year,  for  technical  specialties)  general 
staff  officers'  course  at  the  War  College.  About  thirty-five  officers, 
from  all  three  services,  who  had  been  successful  in  the  examina- 
tions, were  enrolled  annually.  These  officers  could  expect  to  have 
general  staff  assignments,  and  they  would  become  eligible  for  pro- 
motion to  the  ranks  of  colonel  and  gener2d.  Officers  not  attending 
the  War  College  were  eligible  for  a  senior  staff  officers'  course  of 
eight  to  ten  months,  completion  of  which  qualified  them  for  the 
ranks  of  major  and  lieutenant  colonel.  A  very  limited  group  of 
officers  was  selected  to  attend  advanced  courses  abroad,  in  Sweden, 
France,  the  United  States,  and,  occasionally,  the  Soviet  Union. 

Training  of  career  NCOs  was  conducted  at  the  one-year  Non- 
commissioned Officers  School  and  at  various  branch  or  service 
schools.  Applicants  had  to  have  completed  the  reserve  NCO  course 
during  their  conscript  service,  whereupon  they  were  permitted  to 
take  a  qualifying  examination  for  the  lowest  regular  NCO  rank 
of  staff  sergeant  and  subsequent  examinations  to  advance  to  ser- 
geant first  class  and  master  sergeant.  After  three  years  of  service, 
an  NCO  could  apply  for  phase  two  of  the  Non-Commissioned 
Officers  School  as  a  qualification  for  promotion  to  sergeant  major. 
Since  1974  career  NCOs  who  successfully  advanced  through  the 
various  training  stages  were  eligible  for  commissions  and, 
ultimately,  for  promotion  as  high  as  captain. 

Each  service  also  had  its  own  training  institutions.  The  infantry 
had  its  combat  school  and  paratroop  school.  The  artillery  had  the 
artillery  school — with  its  ranges  near  Rovaniemi  in  northern  Fin- 
land, the  coast  artillery  school,  and  the  aintiaircraft  school.  In 
addition  to  pilot  training,  the  air  force  had  specialist  schools  for 
maintenance,  radar,  and  communications  personnel.  Refresher 
courses  for  reservists  were  conducted  either  in  these  permanent 
schools  or  in  the  reserve  units  themselves. 

Uniforms  and  Insignia 

The  Defense  Forces  wore  three  basic  types  of  uniforms — a  dress 


319 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


KENRAALI 

GENERAL 

AMIRAALI 

ADMIRAL 

KENRAALI- 
LUUTNANTTI 

1 

LIEUTENANT 
GENERAL 

KENRAALI- 

LUUTNANTTI 

LIEUTENANT 
GENERAL 

VARA- 

AMIRAALI 

VICE  ADMIRAL 

KENRAALI- 
MAJURI 

R 

MAJOR  GENERAL 
KENRAALI- 

MAJURI 

U 

MAJOR  GENERAL 
KONTRA- 

AMIRAALI 

REAR  ADMIRAL 

EVERSTI 

COLONEL 

EVERSTI 

B 

COLONEL 

KOMMODORI 

CAPTAIN 

EVERSTI- 
LUUTNANTTI 

LIEUTENANT 
COLONEL 

EVERSTI. 

LUUTNANTTI 

H 

LIEUTENANT 
COLONEL 

KOMENTAJA 

COMMANDER 

MAJURI 

MAJOR 

MAJURI 

m 

MAJOR 
KOMENTAJA- 

KAPTEENI 

LIEUTENANT 
COMMANDER 

KAPTEENI 

CAPTAIN 

KAPTEENI 

CAPTAIN 
KAPTEENI- 

LUUTNANTTI 

LIEUTENANT 

n  m/ 
!  leaf 

D 

1ST  LIEUTENANT 
  YLI- 

In 

1ST  LIEUTENANT 

YLI- 

LUUTNANTTI  LUUTNANTTI 

LIEUTENANT  JUNIOR  GRADE 

VANRIKKI 

20  LIEUTENANT 

2D  LIEUTENANT 
ALI- 

LUUTNANTTI 

FINLAND 
RANK 

ARMY 

U.S.  RANK  TITLES 
FINLAND 

RANK 
AIR  FORCE 

U.S.  RANK  TITLES 
FINLAND 

RANK 
NAVY 

U.S.  RANK  TITLES 

320 


National  Security 


321 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

uniform,  a  service  uniform,  and  a  field  uniform.  The  army  dress 
and  service  uniforms  were  field- gray.  The  service  uniform  for  army 
officers  consisted  of  a  field- gray  jacket  and  trousers,  a  service  cap, 
a  silver-gray  shirt,  a  field-gray  four-in-hand  tie,  and  black,  low- 
quarter  shoes.  The  service  uniform  became  the  dress  uniform  when 
augmented  with  breeches,  riding  boots,  and  a  field  cap.  In  winter, 
officer  personnel  wore  field- gray  overcoats  and  fur  pile  caps.  Sum- 
mer wear  for  enlisted  personnel  consisted  of  a  shirt  and  trousers, 
combat  boots,  a  scarf,  and  a  visorless  field  cap.  The  field  uniform 
was  the  service  uniform  supplemented  by  jackboots,  a  camouflage 
jacket,  and  trousers  in  summer — or  white  overalls  in  winter,  along 
with  a  field  cap  or  a  steel  helmet. 

Air  force  uniforms  were  blue;  the  navy  wore  dark  blue  in  winter 
and  white  in  summer.  Officers  of  the  air  force  and  the  navy  wore 
service  uniforms  of  the  same  cut  and  style  as  army  officers.  The 
air  force  dress  shirt  was  light  blue,  and  the  navy  dress  shirt  was 
white. 

Army  officers  wore  shoulderboards  designating  by  color  the 
branch  of  service.  Insignia  of  rank  were  worn  on  the  lapels.  Air 
force  officers  wore  sleeve  bars,  and  naval  officers  wore  stripes  that 
conformed  closely  to  the  rank  insignia  of  the  United  States  Navy 
(see  fig.  22).  Enlisted  personnel  wore  chevrons  against  a  background 
color  designating  the  branch  of  service.  Noncommissioned  officer 
ranks  were  also  worn  on  sleeveboards  (see  fig.  23). 

Conditions  of  Service 

The  incomes  of  career  military  personnel  were  considered  ade- 
quate, although  not  generous,  in  terms  of  the  high  standard  of  liv- 
ing in  Finnish  society  generally.  Officer  and  NCO  salary  scales 
combined  with  their  allowances  were  intended  to  be  equivalent  to 
salaries  in  the  civil  service,  which  were  regarded  as  somewhat  lower 
than  the  remuneration  for  equivalent  forms  of  employment  in  the 
private  sector.  As  of  1986,  the  salary  of  a  colonel  was  about 
Fmkl3,000  monthly  and  that  of  a  major  general  was  about 
Fmkl5,700  (for  value  of  the  Finnish  mark — see  Glossary).  Family 
allowances,  allowances  for  service  under  hardship  conditions  (e.g., 
during  field  exercises  in  the  far  north,  on  offshore  islands,  and  at 
remote  coast  artillery  sites),  and  special  allowances  (for  certain 
categories  of  duty,  such  as  those  of  aircraft  pilots  and  naval  per- 
sonnel on  sea  duty)  were  also  paid.  The  normal  work  week  was 
forty  hours;  personnel  through  the  rank  of  captain  received  over- 
time pay  when  on  duty  for  longer  periods.  There  was  no  extensive 
post  exchange  or  commissary  system.  Most  career  military  were 


322 


National  Security 


privately  housed;  those  assigned  to  base  housing  were  charged  a 
moderate  rent. 

Officers  attaining  at  least  the  rank  of  major  were  eligible  for  full 
retirement  twenty-five  years  after  graduating  from  the  Military 
Academy.  Promotion  through  the  rank  of  captain  was  virtually 
automatic.  Those  who  had  attended  the  Military  Academy  could 
expect  to  attain  at  least  the  rank  of  major  and  probably  that  of  lieu- 
tenant colonel,  but  subsequent  promotional  opportunities  then  nar- 
rowed sharply.  As  of  1986,  there  were  672  career  majors  and  lieu- 
tenant commanders,  250  lieutenant  colonels  and  commanders,  and 
88  colonels  and  naval  captains.  There  were  only  fourteen  major 
generals  and  rear  admirals  and  eight  lieutenant  genergds  and  vice 
admirals. 

Some  captains  chose  to  retire  after  twenty  years  of  career  ser- 
vice when  their  partial  pensions  were  (in  1986)  between  Fmk6,800 
and  Fmk7,800  monthly.  One  personnel  problem  caused  by  modest 
pay  was  the  loss  of  military  pilots  to  commercial  airlines.  An 
experienced  pilot  with  the  rank  of  captain  could  expect  a  total  income 
of  about  Fmk 14,000  monthly  as  of  1988.  By  resigning  to  fly  for  Fin- 
nair,  he  could  raise  his  monthly  income  to  about  Fmk20,000. 

Conscripts  received  no  pay,  but  they  were  paid  a  modest  daily 
expense  allowance,  a  source  of  some  dissatisfaction.  It  had,  however, 
been  progressively  increased  from  Fmk6.75  in  1981  to  Fmkl7  in 
December  1987.  Many  conscripts  complained  that  they  had  been 
forced  to  fall  back  on  their  personal  savings  during  their  eight  to 
eleven  months  of  active  service.  Conscripts  were,  however,  entitled 
to  educational  loans  at  the  conclusion  of  their  service,  as  well  as 
mustering-out  bonuses  and  other  benefits,  including  up  to  ten  paid 
trips  home  on  leave.  They  were  guaranteed  reemployment  at  the 
jobs  they  had  held  when  they  entered  active  duty. 

Defense  Spending 

The  combined  budget  of  the  Defense  Forces  and  the  RVL  have 
remained  fairly  constant  during  the  1980s  as  a  percentage  of  total 
government  expenditures,  in  most  years  ranging  from  5.5  to  6  per- 
cent. Defense  costs  generally  constituted  about  1.5  percent  of  gross 
national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary),  although  they  rose  to  1.7 
percent  in  1983  before  diminishing  to  1 .48  percent  in  1987  as  a  con- 
sequence of  budget  cuts  imposed  on  the  Ministry  of  Defense.  The 
defense  budget  totaled  Fmk5.58  billion  in  1987  and  Fmk6.04  bil- 
lion in  1988. 

During  the  1982-86  period,  the  principal  expense  category 
was  equipment  replacement  and  procurement  (31  percent  of  the 
total  budget),  followed  by  payroll  costs  (25  percent).  Upkeep  of 


323 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


conscripts  and  training  expenses  averaged  1 3  percent  of  the  bud- 
get; operations  and  maintenance,  16  percent;  and  real  estate  and 
other  expenses,  15  percent.  The  procurement  projection  for  the 
5 -year  period,  1987-92,  earmarked  48  percent  for  the  army,  25 
percent  for  the  air  force,  20  percent  for  the  navy,  and  7  percent 
for  common-use  equipment.  This  reflected  increased  emphasis  on 
the  acquisition  of  armor  and  firepower  for  the  army  and  a  diminish- 
ing rate  of  procurement  for  the  air  force.  The  air  force  share  was 
expected  to  rise  again  after  1992,  however,  when  the  entire  fleet 
of  fighter  aircraft  was  scheduled  for  replacement. 

Although  Finland's  defense  budget  showed  a  slight  increase  dur- 
ing the  1980s,  it  failed  to  maintain  the  targeted  annual  real  growth 
rate  of  3.8  percent  established  by  the  Third  Parliamentary  Defense 
Committee  in  1981 .  In  both  absolute  and  relative  terms,  Finland's 
defense  budget  continued  to  be  among  the  lowest  in  Europe.  A 
study  prepared  by  the  United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disarma- 
ment Agency  found  that  Finland's  defense  effort,  expressed  in  terms 
of  military  expenditures  as  a  ratio  of  GNP,  was  among  the  lowest 
of  the  developed  countries  of  the  world.  Only  Japan,  Luxembourg, 
and  Iceland  had  lighter  defense  burdens,  based  on  1985  data.  Fin- 
land also  ranked  low  in  military  expenditures  per  capita  (US$156 
in  1984,  calculated  in  1983  dollars)  and  as  a  percentage  of  central 
government  expenditures  (one  hundred  twenty-third  in  the  world 
in  1985). 

These  low  budget  oudays  presaged  future  deficiencies  in  modern 
arms  when  existing  equipment  had  to  be  replaced.  As  senior  mili- 
tary leaders  pointed  out,  costs  of  new  weaponry  were  increasing 
at  a  rate  of  5  to  15  percent  annually  on  world  markets,  with  the 
result  that  new  procurements  could  not  keep  pace  with  equipment 
obsolescence  and  deterioration,  especially  in  the  army.  Finnish 
analysts  argued,  however,  that  the  budgeted  figures  somewhat 
understated  Finland's  real  defense  effort  compared  with  other  Scan- 
dinavian countries,  because  of  the  low  conscript  pay  and  the  fact 
that  certain  military  infrastructure  costs  as  well  as  military  pen- 
sions were  not  included  in  the  defense  budget.  Moreover,  the  RVL, 
which  would  be  an  important  adjunct  to  the  military  in  an  emer- 
gency, was  included  in  the  Ministry  of  Interior  budget  rather  than 
in  the  defense  budget. 

The  Armed  Forces  in  National  Life 

The  Defense  Forces  held  a  position  of  esteem  and  honor  in  Fin- 
nish society.  This  was  accounted  for  in  part  by  their  reputation 
for  valor,  earned  in  preserving  Finland's  independence  during  the 
Winter  War,  and  by  the  common  military  service  experience  of 


324 


National  Security 


male  citizens.  The  long  reserve  obligation  of  a  large  part  of  the 
population  also  reinforced  continuing  interest  in  the  effectiveness 
and  the  welfaire  of  the  military  establishment.  The  obligatory  period 
of  service  was  perceived  as  an  important  unifying  factor  for  Fin- 
nish society.  Conscription  was  treated  as  an  opportunity  to  pro- 
vide civic  education  by  deepening  understanding  of  the  history  and 
the  security  policies  of  the  country  and  to  improve  standards  of 
behavior  and  good  citizenship.  One  of  the  arguments  advanced 
for  national  service  for  women  was  that  the  experience  would  help 
them,  as  citizens,  to  comprehend  national  security  issues  better  and 
to  view  the  military  in  a  positive  light. 

Opinion  surveys  revecded  a  high  degree  of  public  confidence  in 
the  Defense  Forces  and  a  willingness  to  provide  the  necessary 
resources  for  an  effective  defense.  Polls  generally  found  that  over 
75  percent  of  Finns  agreed  that  the  country  should  be  willing  to 
go  to  war  to  defend  itself.  (Among  conscripts,  95  percent  supported 
a  firm  defense  against  aggression.)  In  1988  one-half  of  those  que- 
ried were  in  favor  of  the  existing  level  of  defense  appropriations, 
while  one- third  believed  they  should  be  increased,  and  only  slightly 
more  than  one-eighth  thought  they  should  be  reduced.  The  need 
for  a  sufficient  level  of  military  readiness  was  accepted  by  all  major 
parties  represented  in  the  Eduskunta;  only  communist  factions  had 
urged  curtailing  defense  expenditures,  arguing  that  any  future  war 
was  bound  to  be  nuclear,  making  preparations  for  a  conventional 
conflict  of  little  avail. 

The  Defense  Forces  were  often  prominently  involved  in  public 
events,  helping  to  organize  and  to  stage  large  sports  competitions, 
ceremonies,  conferences,  and  exhibitions.  In  most  communities, 
there  were  guilds  connected  with  military  units,  often  those  linked 
to  the  area  by  long  tradition,  that  brought  together  older  and  youn- 
ger veterans.  The  Defense  Council  was  active  in  furthering  the  pub- 
lic's knowledge  of  defense  issues,  and  by  the  late  1980s  about  20,000 
Finns,  prominent  locally  or  nationally,  had  attended  courses  under 
its  direction.  About  20  percent  of  those  receiving  instruction 
attended  a  course  lasting  nearly  a  month;  the  remainder  attended 
a  one- week  course. 

The  Finnish  military  establishment  had  intervened  in  politics 
during  the  Civil  War  of  1917-18  and  during  the  subsequent  clashes 
between  the  right  and  the  left  wings  in  the  1920s.  In  the  period 
preceding  World  War  II,  leaders  of  the  armed  forces  had  sought 
to  convince  the  government  and  the  public  to  initiate  military  pre- 
paredness for  the  impending  conflict.  Since  the  end  of  the  war, 
however,  the  constraints  of  the  1947  peace  treaty  and  the  FCMA 
treaty,  together  with  the  authority  asserted  by  civilian  governments, 


325 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


have  discouraged  direct  involvement  by  the  military  in  politics.  The 
career  military  were  forbidden  to  join  political  parties  or  to  run 
for  political  office  while  on  active  duty.  They  were,  however,  per- 
mitted to  vote  and  to  hold  office  at  local  levels,  such  as  member- 
ship on  municipal  boards,  which  did  not  require  party  affiliation. 

During  the  1980s,  the  public  profile  of  the  senior  members  of 
the  armed  forces  was  generally  low;  the  leadership  confined  itself 
to  restrained  comments  when  it  felt  this  was  needed  to  draw  atten- 
tion to  the  inadequacy  of  defense  appropriations.  The  impact  of 
the  military  on  issues  affecting  national  security  was,  nonetheless, 
significant.  Its  opinion  was  highly  respected,  in  part  as  a  legacy 
of  the  Winter  War  and  in  part  as  a  result  of  the  direct  experience 
of  the  entire  male  segment  of  society  with  matters  of  national 
defense.  Observers  believed  it  probable  that  a  large  majority  of  the 
representatives  in  the  Eduskunta  (parliament)  held  officer  commis- 
sions in  the  reserves.  Views  of  the  senior  commanders  were  accorded 
serious  attention  by  top  policymakers  and  legislators.  Reserve  officer 
associations  in  every  part  of  the  country  formed  a  strong  constit- 
uency sympathetic  to  the  interests  of  the  military. 

There  appeared  to  be  little  sentiment  among  the  public  that  the 
military  enjoyed  excessive  influence  in  the  Finnish  political  sys- 
tem. In  a  survey  taken  in  1984  concerning  the  power  of  various 
institutions,  over  75  percent  of  those  polled  felt  that  the  armed  forces 
exercised  the  right  amount  of  power;  only  15  percent  thought  that 
they  held  too  much  power.  In  this  respect,  the  public's  estimate 
of  the  military  was  more  positive  than  its  estimate  of  any  of  the 
other  institutions  of  government  and  society,  except  the  presiden- 
cy itself. 

United  Nations  Peacekeeping  Activities 

Finland  has  taken  an  active  role  in  United  Nations  (UN)  peace- 
keeping matters  as  a  means  of  demonstrating  its  interest  in  the  main- 
tenance of  international  peace.  Because  of  their  unimpeachable 
behavior  in  conformity  with  Finland's  neutral  status,  Finnish  troops 
have  almost  invariably  been  welcomed  as  elements  of  UN  pea- 
cekeeping forces  by  the  parties  involved  in  international  crises.  A 
law  enacted  in  1964,  defining  the  conditions  of  Finnish  participa- 
tion, limited  the  maximum  number  of  soldiers  serving  at  any  one 
time  to  2,000.  Regular  troops  of  the  Defense  Forces  could  not  be 
sent  abroad,  so  the  peacekeeping  forces  were  composed  of  volun- 
teer reservists,  career  officers,  and  NCOs  who  wished  to  be  detached 
from  their  units  to  serve  with  UN  contingents.  A  six-month  rota- 
tion was  customary,  but  many  reservists  had  volunteered  for 
repeated  service.  By  the  late  1980s,  some  20,000  Finns  had  served 


326 


National  Security 


in  UN  peacekeeping  missions.  Specialized  instruction  was  provided 
at  a  permanent  training  site  where  clothing  and  equipment  were 
stored  for  immediate  availability.  A  stand-by  force,  consisting  of 
a  reserve  motorized  infantry  battalion  of  approximately  700  men, 
could  be  prepared  for  mobilization  anywhere  in  the  world  within 
four  weeks.  Its  key  officers  could  be  in  place  much  sooner.  Officer 
training  for  the  special  requirements  of  UN  service  was  conducted 
on  a  cooperative  basis  with  other  Nordic  countries.  Finland  was 
responsible  for  training  militar)^  observers;  Sweden  trained  staff 
officers;  Denmark,  military  police  officers;  and  Norway,  logistics 
and  transportation  officers. 

Within  a  year  after  its  admission  to  the  UN  in  1955,  Finland 
sent  a  reinforced  rifle  company  of  250  men  as  part  of  the  UN  Emer- 
gency Force  (UNEF)  based  in  Egypt  for  service  in  the  Sinai  and 
the  Gaza  Strip.  In  1964  a  reinforced  battalion  with  a  strength  of 
1 ,000  men  was  attached  to  the  UN  Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP). 
It  was  composed  of  five  light  infantry  companies  and  a  support 
company,  armed  with  rifles,  machine  pistols,  light  machine  guns, 
mortars,  and  bazookas.  Later  Finnish  contingents  were  organized 
and  equipped  in  similar  fashion,  with  the  addition  of  a  vehicle  repair 
unit,  a  field  hospital,  and  most  transport,  signal,  and  housing 
requirements. 

Finnish  units  served  from  1973  to  1979  in  a  buffer  zone  between 
Israel  and  Egypt  in  the  Suez  Canal  area  as  part  of  the  UN  Emer- 
gency Force  II  (UNEF  II),  after  which  the  contingent  was  trans- 
ferred to  the  Golan  Heights  between  Israeli  and  Syrian  forces  as 
part  of  the  UN  Disengagement  Observer  Force  (UNDOF). 
Beginning  in  1982,  a  Finnish  battalion  was  assigned  to  serve  with 
the  UN  Interim  Force  (UNIFIL)  in  southern  Lebanon.  As  of  late 
1988,  about  1 ,000  members  of  the  Finnish  armed  forces  were  serv- 
ing on  peacekeeping  missions.  In  addition  to  the  UNIFIL  battzil- 
ion,  they  were  assigned  as  cease-fire  observers  in  Cyprus,  along 
the  India-Pakistan  border,  in  the  Sinai,  on  the  Golan  Heights  be- 
tween Israel  and  Syria,  in  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  in  Afghanistan. 
Finland  was  2dso  committed  to  contribute  to  the  UN  peacekeep- 
ing force  to  be  sent  to  Namibia. 

Sources  of  Equipment 

By  the  late  1980s,  nearly  40  percent  of  Finnish  military  equip- 
ment purchases  were  of  domestic  manufacture,  the  remainder  be- 
ing imported  about  equally  from  Soviet  and  Western  sources.  The 
Soviet  Union  was  the  largest  single  source,  followed  by  Sweden, 
France,  Britain,  and  the  United  States.  Finnish  industry  was  capable 
of  supplying  many  of  the  Defense  Forces'  needs  for  explosives  and 


327 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

ammunition,  light  weapons,  mortars  cind  artillery,  ships,  and  trans- 
port. Low-level  radar  and  many  other  electronic  items  were  also 
being  produced  locally.  Finland  continued  to  be  dependent  on  for- 
eign suppliers  for  jet  aircraft  and  helicopters,  missiles,  tanks  and 
most  armored  vehicles,  and  antiaircraft  systems. 

Arms  Acquisitions  from  Foreign  Suppliers 

Until  the  late  1950s,  strained  economic  conditions  precluded  the 
refitting  of  the  Finnish  armed  forces,  which  had  to  be  content  with 
the  large  stocks  of  munitions  and  equipment  remaining  at  the  end 
of  World  War  II.  As  the  economy  strengthened,  a  political  deci- 
sion was  made  to  modernize  the  armed  forces  so  that  they  could 
defend  Finnish  neutrality  credibly.  The  government  allocated  a 
modest  amount  for  new  equipment  in  1955,  and  it  enacted  a  major 
new  appropriation  in  1957.  These  procurements  stimulated  a  revival 
of  the  small  Finnish  armaments  industry,  although  most  major  items 
continued  to  be  acquired  from  abroad.  Britain  was  initially  the 
primary  source  of  supply,  providing  tanks,  aircraft,  and  a  train- 
ing ship.  Jet  trainers  were  purchased  from  France  and  Sweden, 
and  antiaircraft  guns  and  fire  control  systems  were  obtained  from 
Switzerland.  The  decision  reached  in  1959  to  rely  more  heavily 
on  arms  procurements  from  the  Soviet  Union  was  partly  a  politi- 
cal effort  to  demonstrate  Finnish  neutrality  by  balancing  purchases 
from  the  East  and  from  the  West.  Economic  factors  also  played 
a  part.  Finland's  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  was  based  on  bilateral 
balancing,  and  imports  from  the  Soviet  Union  had  to  be  found  to 
compensate  for  the  high  level  of  Finnish  exports.  Favorable  credit 
terms  offered  by  Moscow  were  a  further  attraction  (see  Foreign 
Economic  Relations,  ch,  3). 

Among  the  heavy  weapons  deliveries  from  the  Soviet  Union  dur- 
ing the  early  1960s  were  T-54  and  T-55  main  battle  tanks,  armored 
personnel  carriers,  self-propelled  antiaircraft  guns,  and  artillery 
pieces.  The  political  crisis  sparked  by  a  Soviet  call  for  consulta- 
tions under  the  FCMA  treaty  in  October  1961  convinced  Helsinki 
that  further  efforts  must  be  made  to  build  up  the  nation's  air 
defenses  in  order  to  demonstrate  its  determination  to  resist  viola- 
tions of  its  neutrality.  Accordingly,  an  order  was  placed  with  the 
Soviet  Union  for  thirty-five  MiG-21Fs  and  associated  Atoll  air-to- 
air  missiles.  Since  the  MiG  fighters  did  not  have  an  all-weather 
capability,  the  Finnish  air  force  turned  to  Sweden  for  Saab  J-35 
Draken  2Jl-weather  interceptors;  the  first  of  these  aircraft  were  deli- 
vered between  1972  and  1977.  Beginning  in  1981,  the  MiG-21bis, 
an  all-weather  fighter  with  a  more  powerful  engine,  Wcis  introduced 
to  replace  the  MiG-21F.  It  was  armed  with  a  more  advanced 


328 


National  Security 


version  of  the  Atoll  missile.  Extensive  new  purchases  for  the  moder- 
nization of  the  armored  forces  began  in  1981  with  the  acquisition 
from  the  Soviet  Union  of  armored  personnel  csirriers,  followed  later 
by  T-72  tanks,  armored  transports,  and  BMP-1  assault  tanks. 

By  the  mid-1990s,  the  entire  combat  air  force  of  Draken  and 
MiG  fighters  will  need  replacing,  and  observers  have  surmised  that 
the  Soviet  MiG-29  will  be  one  of  the  models  selected.  Financing 
the  purchase  would  be  facilitated  by  the  fact  that  an  imbadance  had 
developed  in  Finnish-Soviet  trade  as  a  result  of  the  drop  in  the  price 
of  Soviet  crude  oil  deliveries.  Financing  of  a  Western  model,  pos- 
sibly the  Swedish  J  AS-39  Gripen,  was  expected  to  present  a  difficult 
budgetary  hurdle. 

Finland  was  eligible  to  purchase  materiel  under  the  Foreign  Mili- 
tary Sales  Program  of  the  United  States  Defense  Department.  Its 
principal  acquisitions  from  the  United  States  were  advanced  elec- 
tronic equipment  and  I-TOW  (improved  tube-launched,  optically 
sighted,  wire- guided)  antitank  missiles. 

Domestic  Arms  Production 

Finland's  own  production  capacity  had  gradually  expanded 
beginning  in  the  1960s.  Among  the  arms  manufactured  domesti- 
cally were  the  M-60  122mm  field  gun,  the  M61/37  105mm  howit- 
zer, the  M-62  assault  rifle  (a  highly  regarded  redesigned  version 
of  the  Soviet  AK-47),  and  the  M-62  light  machine  gun,  the  basic 
infantry  weapons  of  the  Finnish  army.  Domestic  shipyards  turned 
out  all  of  the  vessels  needed  by  the  navy,  although  much  of  their 
advanced  electronic  equipment  and  weaponry  was  imported. 
Earlier,  a  number  of  ships  had  been  purchased  from  the  Soviet 
Union  and  from  Britain  and  had  been  modified  in  Finnish  yards 
for  minelaying  and  other  special  requirements.  The  only  aircraft 
entirely  of  Finnish  manufacture  was  the  Valmet  L-70  Vinka  basic 
trainer.  Another  Valmet  design,  the  Redigo,  had  been  marketed 
abroad  as  a  basic  trainer  without  success.  Analysts  expected  that 
the  Finnish  air  force  would  acquire  it  as  a  light  transport  in  the 
early  1990s.  The  British  Hawk  advanced  jet  trainer  and  later  con- 
signments of  the  Draken  were  assembled  at  the  Valmet  plant. 

An  all-terrain  truck,  the  KB-45  manufactured  by  Sisu-Auto 
(SISU),  was  used  by  the  Finnish  army  as  a  gun  tractor  and  per- 
sonnel carrier  and  by  Swedish  and  Finnish  peacekeeping  forces  in 
the  Middle  East.  SISU  also  manufactured  the  SA-150  Masi  all- 
terrain  truck  and  the  NA-140  Nasu  adverse  terrain  vehicle.  The 
SISU  A- 180  Pasi,  a  newly  designed  six-wheeled  amphibious 
armored  personnel  carrier,  had  been  introduced  into  the  army,  and 
severad  hundred  were  on  order  as  of  1988. 


329 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

By  1988  the  Finnish  arms  industry  consisted  of  about  twenty 
firms,  most  of  them  small  subsidiaries  of  conglomerates  primarily 
oriented  toward  civilian  markets.  The  Ministry  of  Defense  had  its 
own  plants  for  the  manufacture  of  munitions  and  for  the  moderni- 
zation of  heavy  equipment  such  as  the  T-55  tank.  In  addition  to 
SISU  and  Valmet,  one  of  the  larger  private  manufacturers  was 
Tampella,  which  produced  field  artillery,  mortars,  turret  guns,  and 
grenade  launchers.  Most  of  the  missile  boats  were  constructed  by 
the  Hollming  shipyards  in  Rauma  and  at  Wartsila's  yards  in  Hel- 
sinki, although  their  weapons  systems  were  acquired  abroad. 

Finnish  arms  exports  were  a  minor  item  in  the  balance  of  trade, 
amounting  to  only  Fmk60  million  in  1986.  Nearly  half  of  these 
exports  were  to  NATO  countries,  most  of  the  remainder  going  to 
neutral  developed  countries  such  as  Sweden.  About  half  of  the 
export  total  consisted  of  gunpowder.  Ammunition,  artillery  shells, 
and  assault  rifles  composed  most  of  the  remainder. 

Civil  Defense 

Under  the  Civil  Defense  Act  of  1958,  the  Ministry  of  Interior 
was  directed  to  provide  civil  defense  to  protect  persons  and  property 
in  wartime  as  weU  as  in  peacetime.  The  act  stipulated  that  the  minis- 
try was  to  be  responsible  for  providing  shelters  in  high-risk  areas, 
for  evacuating  civilian  population  from  threatened  areas,  and  for 
limiting  damage  from  natural  disasters.  In  emergency  situations, 
firefighting,  rescue,  ambulance,  and  first-aid  services  were  coor- 
dinated with  the  civil  defense  effort.  Civil  defense  operations  were 
entirely  a  civilian  responsibility. 

The  ministry  delegated  the  implementation  of  national  policy 
to  county  and  municipal  authorities,  which  acted  through  locally 
appointed  civil  defense  boards.  These  boards  supervised  operations 
from  more  than  100  civil  defense  centers  designated  throughout 
the  country.  Personnel  in  national  and  local  government  agencies, 
committed  to  civil  defense  in  emergency  situations,  and  in  indepen- 
dent voluntary  organizations  that  would  come  under  their  juris- 
diction numbered  over  100,000.  Nongovernment  organizations 
involved  in  civil  defense  activities  included  the  Finnish  Red  Cross 
and  the  Rescue  Service.  Police  were  also  assigned  to  reinforce  civil 
defense  workers  as  conditions  required. 

An  alairm  system  was  in  place  in  urban  centers  to  warn  the  civilian 
population  of  threatened  attacks.  During  an  emergency  situation, 
instructions  would  be  broadcast  through  normsd  media  channels. 
The  early  warning  civil  defense  system  was  tied  into  the  nation- 
wide military  air  surveillance  system. 


330 


Finnish-built  L-70  Vinka  elementary  trainer  produced  by  Valmet 
Courtesy  General  Headquarters,  Finnish  Defense  Forces 

The  Ministry  of  Interior  maintained  hard  shelters,  capable  of 
accommodating  2.6  million  persons,  in  cities  and  in  other  densely 
populated  areas  where  two-thirds  of  the  country's  population  lived. 
They  were  built  to  withst2ind  the  detonation  of  a  100-kiloton  nuclear 
bomb  at  ground  zero.  There  was  no  shelter  program  in  rural  areas 
nor  were  most  detached  dwellings  and  townhouses  equipped  with 
shelters.  About  10  percent  of  the  shelters  were  carved  out  of  natural 
rock,  but  most  were  beneath  office  and  residential  buildings.  Some 
were  designed  for  multiple  use  as  parking  garages,  schoolrooms, 
skating  rinks,  and  swimming  pools.  By  law,  builders  were  obliged 
to  include  shelters  in  blocks  measuring  3,000  cubic  meters  or  more. 
In  Helsinki,  536,000  spaces  were  provided,  of  which  11 8,000  were 
in  large  rock  shelters  and  14,000  were  in  subway  stations.  The 
shelter  space  was  sufficient  to  accommodate  over  100  percent  of 
the  nighttime  population  of  the  city,  but  only  67  percent  of  the  day- 
time population. 

The  most  serious  shortcoming  of  Finland's  civil  defense  system 
was  that  1.5  million  Finns  had  no  access  to  shelters.  Another  rea- 
son for  concern  was  that  many  shelters  were  poorly  equipped  and 
maintained.  All  shelters  were  supposed  to  be  outfitted  with  self- 
contained  power  2ind  ventilation  systems,  sanitary  facilities,  and 
emergency  supplies.  Nevertheless,  inspections  during  1986  found 
that  two- thirds  of  shelters  in  private  buildings  had  some  deficiencies. 


331 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Contingency  plans  included  massive  evacuation  of  civilians  from 
likely  target  areas,  threatened  with  attack  by  conventional  forces 
in  time  of  war.  Medical  services  for  civilian  casualties  would  be 
provided  at  local  facilities  in  coordination  with  the  civil  defense 
branch  of  the  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  Civil  defense 
authorities  considered,  however,  that  evacuation  of  the  civilian 
population  to  escape  fallout  following  a  nuclear  attack  would  be 
pointless,  and  no  provision  was  made  for  such  a  contingency. 

The  public's  perception  of  civil  defense  efforts  was  marked  by 
considerable  indifference  during  the  1980s.  Although  its  system  was 
far  more  complete  than  the  systems  in  most  countries  of  Western 
Europe,  Finland's  annuaJ  expenditure  per  capita  on  civil  defense 
of  US$12  was  well  below  the  rate  of  other  Scandinavian  countries, 
which  averaged  US$20  per  capita.  The  nuclear  accident  at  Cher- 
nobyl in  the  Soviet  Union  in  1986  underscored  Finland's  vulnera- 
bility and  triggered  renewed  concern  over  shortcomings  in  the  civil 
defense  program.  In  response,  the  government  announced  plans 
in  1988  to  introduce  an  automatic  radiation  surveillance  network 
to  supplement  the  existing  manual  one  and  to  ensure  that  an  out- 
door alarm  system  was  operational  in  all  municipalities. 

Public  Order  and  Security 

Responsibility  for  law  enforcement  and  for  the  maintenance  of 
public  security  rested  entirely  with  the  central  government.  No 
police  forces  were  maintained  by  lower  levels  of  government.  The 
minister  of  interior  exercised  control  over  all  police  forces  through 
the  Police  Department,  one  of  the  departments  of  the  Ministry  of 
Interior.  It  functioned  as  the  central  command  unit  supervising 
the  two  types  of  ordinary  police  forces — town  police  and  rural 
police — as  well  as  three  special  police  units,  the  Central  Criminal 
Police  (Keskusrikospoliisi — KRP),  the  Mobile  Police  (Liikkuva — 
LP),  and  the  Security  Police  (Suojelupoliisi — SUPO).  The  total 
personnel  complement  of  the  police,  as  of  late  1988,  was  8,341, 
of  whom  approximately  200  were  women. 

The  RVL,  a  paramilitary  force  with  responsibilities  for  guarding 
Finland's  borders  and  for  maintaining  public  order  and  safety  in 
frontier  and  coastal  areas,  was  also  under  the  supervision  of  the  min- 
ister of  interior  in  peacetime.  Its  headquarters  was  the  Fron- 
tier Guard  Department,  a  separate  division  within  the  ministry.  The 
personnel  strength  of  the  RVL  was  roughly  half  that  of  the  police. 

Police  Organization 

Chambers  of  Police  were  established  in  1816  in  Turku,  and  later 
in  other  large  towns.  These  chambers  had  the  duty  of  keeping 


332 


National  Security 


order,  preventing  crimes  and  breaches  of  the  peace,  and  acting  as 
courts  for  minor  offenses.  Although  the  term  "poUce  department" 
was  officially  adopted  in  1861,  police  forces  retained  their  judicial 
powers  until  1897.  In  1903  and  1904,  the  town  police  became  part 
of  the  state  administration,  although  until  1977  towns  still  had  the 
responsibility  of  contributing  one-third  of  some  costs  of  police 
service. 

In  rural  areas,  provincial  governors  had  traditionally  appointed 
sheriffs,  often  poorly  educated  and  inefficient  peasants,  who  fre- 
quently did  not  have  regular  deputies.  Only  in  1891  did  a  decree 
provide  for  each  sheriffs  office  to  have  a  number  of  state-employed 
constables.  The  Police  Act  of  1925  brought  town  and  rural  police 
under  the  same  set  of  regulations.  Previous  legislation  and  regula- 
tions pertaining  to  the  police  were  superseded  by  the  Police  Act 
of  1967,  a  comprehensive  law  covering  all  police  activities.  Amend- 
ments in  1973  established  advisory  committees  of  laymen  to  help 
improve  relations  between  the  police  and  the  general  public.  The 
1973  law  also  defined  the  structure  of  the  Police  Department  in 
the  Ministry  of  Interior. 

The  Police  Department  of  the  Ministry  of  Interior  was  both  the 
supreme  command  of  the  police  and  an  operational  arm  for  spe- 
cial functions  carried  on  at  a  centralized  level.  Among  the  most 
important  of  these  was  directing  three  special  police  forces,  the 
KRP,  the  LP,  and  SUPO  (see  fig.  24).  A  superintendent  of  police 
headed  each  provincial  police  office,  which  had  operational  com- 
mand over  local  police  units  but  had  no  police  forces  directiy  under 
it.  Most  prosecutors  were  part  of  the  police  system.  The  provin- 
cial superintendent  of  police  was,  at  the  same  time,  the  provincial 
prosecutor  who  prosecuted  the  most  serious  crimes.  Sheriffs  were 
local  administrative  officers,  acting  as  prosecutors  in  lower  courts, 
as  debt  collectors,  and  as  notaries  public.  Town  police  departments, 
headed  by  police  chiefs,  numbered  twenty- seven  in  1988.  There 
were  225  mraX  police  districts  headed  by  sheriffs. 

The  organization  of  individual  police  departments  varied  depend- 
ing on  the  size  of  the  community  and  on  its  particular  public  safety 
problems.  Departments  generally  had  sections  that  dealt  with  public 
order  and  safety,  accidents,  driver's  permits,  criminal  investiga- 
tion, social  problems  (investigation  of  crimes  against  the  Narcot- 
ics Act  and  violations  of  the  Temperance  Act),  the  civil  register 
(population  records,  passports  and  identity  cards,  alien  supervi- 
sion), and  a  unit  for  preventive  police  work  among  youth.  In  com- 
munities large  enough  to  be  divided  into  precincts,  the  precinct 
officers  conducted  investigations  of  minor  crimes,  placed  drunks 


333 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


LUin 


O  LU 
H  N 

2  £  $  CL 

<Shq 


LU  Z 

<  s 

^  < 

Q  o 

<  »- 

CC  LU 

< 
cr 

ORDE 

;nts 

AL  INV 

lAL 

DQ  O  ^ 

O 

:r  DC  LU 

DODCO 

^  UJ  CC 

Q.  <  O  W  O  Q-  Q. 

334 


National  Security 


in  sobering-up  cells,  and  supervised  public  facilities,  including  train 
and  bus  stations. 

Larger  rural  police  districts  had  similar  divisions,  with  the 
addition  of  an  administrative  division  to  handle  permits,  debt  col- 
lections, fines,  and  similar  matters.  The  majority  of  the  districts 
were  small,  however,  with  a  staff  of  only  ten  or  twelve  policemen 
and  no  divisional  organization. 

Central  Criminal  Police 

The  Central  Criminal  Police  (Keskusrikospoliisi — KRP)  was 
formed  in  1954  to  assist  the  country's  other  police  elements  in  ef- 
forts against  crime,  particularly  that  of  a  serious  or  deeply  rooted 
nature.  A  special  concern  of  the  Central  Criminal  Police  was  white 
collar  crime.  To  carry  out  its  mission,  the  force  had  advanced  tech- 
nical means  at  its  disposed,  and  it  maintained  Finland's  fingerprint 
and  identification  files.  In  addition  to  working  with  local  police 
forces,  the  KRP  operated  independently  throughout  the  country. 

Mobile  Police 

The  Mobile  Police  (Liikkuva  Poliisi — LP)  was  formed  in  1930 
to  operate  throughout  the  country  to  prevent  smuggling,  to  con- 
trol highway  traffic,  and,  above  all,  to  be  ready  at  a  moment's  notice 
to  assist  local  police  forces  in  quelling  civil  disturbances.  With  a 
complement  of  724,  as  of  1988,  the  LP  had  a  department  in  each 
province  and  commsmd  units  in  larger  communities.  Its  main  func- 
tions, in  addition  to  its  responsibility  for  traffic  regulation  and 
vehicle  inspection,  were  to  prevent  the  illegal  importation  and  the 
manufacture  of  alcohol  and  drugs,  to  enforce  hunting  and  fishing 
regulations,  and  to  assist  other  police  units  in  investigations  and 
in  apprehension  of  fugitives.  The  LP  also  provided  security  for  the 
nation's  president,  passport  control  at  the  Soviet  border,  and  secu- 
rity at  the  Helsinki  international  airport. 

Security  Police 

The  Security  Police  (Suojelupoliisi — SUPO)  had  its  headquar- 
ters in  Helsinki,  but  it  maintained  bureau  and  district  offices  in 
various  parts  of  Finland,  Formed  in  1948,  it  replaced  a  similzir  police 
force  dating  from  the  late  1930s.  Its  function  was  to  investigate 
crimes  and  offenses  against  the  law  and  order  of  the  state,  includ- 
ing subversion,  conspiracy,  and  espionage.  SUPO  had,  in  addi- 
tion, certain  responsibilities  for  safeguarding  classified  government 
documents  and  for  checking  on  foreign  citizens  visiting  or  work- 
ing in  Finland.  It  conducted  liaison  with  security  and  intelligence 
organizations  of  other  countries.  Agents  of  SUPO  did  not  have 


335 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


the  right  to  make  arrests  or  to  detain  anyone,  nor  were  they  autho- 
rized to  search  private  residences.  Anyone  suspected  by  SUPO  of 
having  committed  a  crime  was  dealt  with  by  a  criminal  investiga- 
tion unit. 

The  country  faced  few  internal  security  problems.  It  continued 
to  be  a  homogeneous  nation  with  only  20,000  foreign  residents  cind 
an  immigration  quota  of  200  people  a  year.  Admittance  was  denied 
to  job  seekers  from  Third  World  countries.  The  few  Soviet  defec- 
tors who  mginaged  to  escape  across  the  border  into  Finland  were 
carefully  screened,  and  most  were  sent  back.  A  few  were  granted 
asylum  as  political  refugees;  others  succeeded  in  reaching  Sweden 
before  being  apprehended  by  Finnish  authorities. 

Police  Training 

Competition  for  employment  by  the  police  was  keen.  Fewer  than 
10  percent  of  the  average  of  3,500  who  applied  annually  were 
accepted  for  training.  Candidates  were  required  to  have  completed 
secondary  school  and  to  have  emerged  from  military  service  with 
at  least  an  NCO  rank.  The  five-month  police  cadet  course  was  given 
at  the  Police  Training  Center  at  Tampere.  The  course  was  followed 
by  twelve  to  eighteen  months  of  active  police  work,  after  which 
policemen  returned  to  the  center  for  six  months  of  further  train- 
ing. Completion  of  this  phase  led  to  the  rank  of  senior  constable. 

Advanced  police  training  was  conducted  at  the  Police  Academy 
in  Otaniemi  near  Helsinki.  The  five-month  NCO  course  provided 
instruction  in  such  fields  as  police  administrative  law,  criminal  law, 
crimin2J  trial  law,  civil  law,  police  tactics,  psychology,  and  foren- 
sic medicine.  Those  completing  the  course  advanced  to  the  rank 
of  sergeant.  An  eight-month  course  for  officers  led  to  the  rank  of 
lieutenant,  and  a  four-month  conmianding  officers'  course  prepared 
candidates  for  police  chiefs  duties. 

Frontier  Guard 

The  Frontier  Guard  (Rajavartiolaitos — RVL)  was  considered 
an  elite  force,  organized,  even  in  peacetime,  along  military  lines 
into  companies  and  platoons;  its  personnel  held  military-type  ranks. 
The  RVL  was  established  in  1919,  and  it  was  placed  under  the 
Ministry  of  Interior.  The  Coast  Guard  (sometimes  called  the  Sea 
Guard),  dating  from  1930,  was  also  under  the  Ministry  of  Interior 
and  was  made  part  of  the  RVL  in  1944.  In  a  time  of  crisis  or  war, 
authorities  could  integrate  the  entire  RVL,  or  parts  of  it,  into  the 
Defense  Forces.  The  peacetime  tasks  of  the  RVL  were  to  guard 
and  to  patrol  national  boundaries;  to  work  with  the  police  in  main- 
taining public  order  and  safety  in  frontier  and  coastal  areas;  to 


336 


National  Security 


prevent  and,  if  necessary,  to  investigate  frontier  incidents;  and, 
together  with  the  Customs  Office,  to  exercise  customs  control.  The 
RVL  patrolled  a  special  frontier  zone  of  three  kilometers  on  land 
and  four  kilometers  at  sea  sdong  the  Finnish-Soviet  border.  A  per- 
mit was  required  to  enter  this  zone. 

The  personnel  complement  of  the  RVL,  as  of  1988,  was  about 
3,500;  an  additioned  1,000  conscripts  were  assigned  to  it.  Coast 
Guard  personnel  numbered  600;  no  conscripts  served  with  the  Coast 
Guard.  The  RVL  was  divided  into  four  districts,  and  the  Coast 
Guard  was  divided  into  three.  Each  district  was  composed  of  three 
or  four  frontier  companies,  a  ranger  or  commando  company,  and 
a  headquarters  platoon.  Actual  patrolling  of  the  border  was  con- 
ducted by  the  frontier  companies,  which  consisted  of  two  to  four 
frontier  platoons.  Each  platoon  manned  one  to  three  RVL  stations. 
The  ranger  companies,  which  served  as  training  units  for  the  con- 
scripts, were  located  at  the  district  headquarters.  Only  career  per- 
sonnel participated  in  regular  boundary  patrolling.  A  separate  Air 
Patrol  Command  was  equipped  with  Agusta  Bell  Jet  Ranger  light 
helicopters  and  Aerospatiale  Super  Puma  medium  helicopters,  the 
latter  with  an  antisubmarine  warfare  role  in  wartime. 

Basic  training  of  the  RVL  was  conducted  at  the  Frontier  Guard 
School  at  Immola  in  the  municipality  of  Imatra  and  at  the  Coast 
Guard  School  at  Otaniemi.  NCOs  received  their  training  mainly 
at  the  Defense  Forces'  NCO  school;  officer  training  was  carried 
out  at  the  Military  Academy  and  at  other  military  schools.  Con- 
scripts received  their  ranger  training  in  the  districts  where  they  were 
assigned.  Conscripts  admitted  to  the  RVL  were  required  to  be  in 
top  physical  condition,  and  they  were  usually  residents  of  border 
areas.  Opportunities  offered  to  RVL  conscripts  for  training  as 
reserve  NCOs  and  officers  were  similar  to  those  offered  in  the 
Defense  Forces  (see  The  Armed  Forces,  this  ch.). 

Under  wartime  conditions  the  RVL  would  be  organized  into  spe- 
cial Frontier  Jaeger  Battalions.  Their  mobilized  strength  would  be 
about  1 1 ,500.  Their  tasks  would  be  to  operate  against  key  targets 
in  the  enemy's  rear  and  to  defend  against  enemy  airborne  or  other 
penetration  of  Finnish  rear  areas.  The  Coast  Guard  did  not  have 
a  reserve  component,  but  several  of  its  larger  patrol  craft  had  a 
submarine  tracking  capability,  and  they  could  be  rapidly  converted 
for  antisubmarine  warfare  and  minelaying  and  minesweeping  oper- 
ations. 

Each  Coast  Guard  district  consisted  of  a  headquarters  platoon, 
three  Coast  Guard  areas  (each  comprising  two  to  six  Coast  Guard 
stations),  and  Coast  Guard  vessels.  Its  fleet  consisted  of  7  offshore 


337 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

patrol  craft  of  between  135  and  700  tons  displacement  and  53 
smaller  coastal  patrol  craft. 

Criminal  Justice  System 

The  Swedish  penal  code  was  retained  in  Finland  untU  1889,  when 
the  Grand  Duchy  of  Finland  adopted  a  new  code  that  was  derived 
from  the  familiar  Swedish  practice  but  allowed  for  more  precise 
definition  of  crimes.  Judges  were  given  considerable  latitude  in  in- 
terpreting the  law,  but  the  new  code  limited  the  punishments  that 
could  be  exacted  for  particular  categories  of  offenses.  Although  fre- 
quendy  amended  over  the  ensuing  decades,  the  Penal  Code  of  1889 
remained  in  force  in  the  1980s.  In  1977  the  government  autho- 
rized establishment  of  the  Penal  Law  Committee  to  study  the  sys- 
tem of  corrections  and  to  reconsider  the  principles  on  which  criminal 
policy  was  based  in  order  to  make  recommendations  for  revisions 
in  the  penal  code.  No  action  had  been  taken  on  penal  code  reform 
as  of  1988,  however. 

Principles  of  Criminal  justice 

Finnish  thinking  on  criminal  policy  as  it  evolved  in  the  1980s 
regarded  the  punishment  of  offenders  essentially  as  society's 
reproach  to  the  criminal.  In  the  abstract,  the  type  and  the  length 
of  punishment  prescribed  by  law  were  considered  indicative  of  the 
norms  of  society  regarding  the  seriousness  of  the  offense  and  the 
potential  threat  posed  to  society  by  the  offender.  In  practical  terms, 
punishments  were  standardized,  and  they  were  imposed  consistendy 
for  all  categories  of  crimes,  in  the  interest  of  ensuring  equality  in 
the  application  of  the  law.  For  this  reason,  the  penal  code  restrict- 
ed the  discretionary  power  of  the  courts  in  imposing  sentences. 

Imprisonment  was  not  regarded  as  benefiting  the  offender,  nor 
was  the  length  of  time  in  an  institution  to  be  set  on  the  basis  of 
need  for  treatment;  it  was  accepted  that  punishment  was  detrimental 
and  should  be  used  sparingly.  Thus,  the  tendency  has  been  to  rely 
on  light  punishment,  especially  on  fines,  and  to  emphasize  short 
sentences  of  a  few  weeks  or  months. 

In  addition  to  ensuring  that  sentences  were  equal  and  propor- 
tional, the  penal  code  advised  that  sentences  imposed  should  not 
cause  the  "unregulated  accumulation  of  sanctions,"  that  is,  when 
assessing  punishment,  courts  should  avoid  severad  ssinctions'  be- 
ing imposed — such  as  dismissal  from  office,  or  revocation  of  a 
driver's  permit — as  the  result  of  a  single  offense.  The  courts  were 
zdso  expected  to  ensure  that  punishment  was  not  extended  indirectiy 
to  the  offender's  family. 

The  tendency  since  the  early  1970s  has  been  to  decriminalize 


338 


Frontier  Guards  in  bivouac  during  winter  patrol 
Courtesy  General  Headquarters,  Finnish  Defense  Forces 
Ski  troops  towed  by  a  Swedish-built  Bandvagn 
206  multipurpose  tracked  vehicle 
Courtesy  General  Headquarters,  Finnish  Defense  Forces 


339 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


a  number  of  actions  formerly  indictable  under  the  penal  code.  The 
modifications  in  the  code  reflected  changing  priorities  in  assessing 
the  seriousness  of  criminal  conduct,  changing  norms  of  social 
behavior,  and  an  attempt  to  distinguish  between  premeditated  crime 
and  spontaneous  actions.  Among  the  acts  decriminalized  were  creat- 
ing a  public  disturbance  because  of  drunkenness  as  well  as  certain 
offenses  against  property,  such  as  petty  theft.  Homosexual  acts 
between  consenting  adults  also  ceased  to  be  regarded  as  a  crimi- 
nal offense.  Stiff  penalties  for  offenses  against  persons,  for  threa- 
tened violence  against  persons,  and  for  drunken  driving  remained 
unaffected,  however. 

Finland  has  been  less  willing  than  other  Scandinavizin  countries 
to  replace  punishment  with  other  measures,  such  as  treatment- 
oriented  institutions  for  repeat  offenders.  Under  legislation  enacted 
in  1931,  offenders  ''dangerous  to  private  or  public  safety"  could 
be  confined  in  a  separate  institution  for  recidivists  after  their  sen- 
tences had  expired.  In  1971  the  law  was  amended  so  that  property 
offenses  could  no  longer  be  considered  grounds  for  indeterminate 
incarceration,  and  conditions  under  which  violent  offenders  could 
be  so  confined  were  more  narrowly  defined.  As  a  result,  the  num- 
ber of  offenders  held  in  internment  of  any  kind  fell  dramatically, 
from  nearly  400  in  the  1960s  to  fewer  than  10  in  1984. 

Criminal  Courts 

Criminal  courts  of  the  first  instance  were  of  two  types,  each  hav- 
ing jurisdiction  in  distinct  areas  and  each  following  separate  proce- 
dures. The  first  type  of  court  provided  criminal  justice  in  thirty 
"old  towns,"  including  Helsinki.  These  long-established  town 
courts  consisted  of  three  professionad  judges — one  of  whom 
presided — and  two  lay  jurors  from  the  city  council.  Circuit  courts, 
the  second  type,  exercised  jurisdiction  in  rural  districts  and  in  cities 
incorporated  after  1958.  The  latter  category  included  Espoo  and 
Vantaa,  Finland's  fourth  and  fifth  largest  cities,  respectively,  located 
in  the  greater  Helsinki  metropolitan  area.  More  than  140  circuit 
courts  in  71  judicial  districts  formed  this  system.  Circuit  courts  were 
conducted  by  a  professional  judge,  assisted  by  five  to  seven  jurors 
elected  for  the  term  of  the  court  by  the  local  municipal  council. 
Public  prosecutors  for  both  kinds  of  courts  determined  whether  to 
press  charges  against  persons  accused  of  offenses  solely  on  the  basis 
of  evidence  presented  by  police  investigation. 

Criminal  cases  were  heard  in  continuous  sessions  by  both  types 
of  courts  of  the  first  instance.  Verdicts  were  determined  by  the  vote 
of  the  panel  of  judges  and  jurors.  A  two-to-one  majority  was  suffi- 
cient in  three-member  town  courts.  In  circuit  courts,  however,  the 


340 


National  Security 


verdict  of  the  presiding  judge  prevailed  if  the  jurors  failed  to  reach 
a  unanimous  decision.  Measures  were  pending  in  1988  to  har- 
monize court  procedures. 

Cases  involving  criminal  offenses  by  on-duty  members  of  the 
Defense  Forces  were  tried  in  fifteen  speciad  courts  of  the  first  in- 
stance presided  over  by  a  panel  of  military  judges.  These  courts- 
martial  were  integrated  into  the  criminal  courts  system. 

Appeals  from  the  courts  of  the  first  instance  were  heard  in  six 
three-member  regional  courts  of  appeal  that  were  also  responsible 
for  supervising  the  lower  courts.  When  a  panel  considered  appesds 
from  courts-martial,  two  military  judges  were  added.  About  two- 
thirds  of  the  business  of  appeals  courts  involved  criminal  cases.  The 
Supreme  Court,  which  ordinarily  sat  in  panels  of  five  members, 
handled  final  appeals  from  criminal  cases.  Permission  to  appeal 
was,  however,  granted  by  a  three-member  panel.  Because  of  a  ten- 
dency by  the  Supreme  Court  to  limit  the  cases  reviewed  to  those 
having  vadue  as  precedents,  the  courts  of  appeal  had  become 
increasingly  important  in  criminal  matters. 

Criminal  actions  were  preceded  by  a  police  pretrial  investiga- 
tion. A  suspect  could  be  detained  by  the  police  for  questioning, 
without  access  to  a  lawyer,  for  three  days;  this  period  could  be 
extended  to  fourteen  days,  for  special  reasons  on  proper  authority 
and  with  notification  to  the  court.  Reforms  scheduled  to  take  effect 
on  January  1,  1989,  shortened  the  maximum  detention  to  seven 
days,  with  access  to  a  lawyer.  The  institutions  of  habeas  corpus 
and  bail  did  not  exist  as  such.  Those  accused  of  serious  crimes  were 
required  to  remain  in  custody.  Those  accused  of  minor  offenses 
could  be  released  on  person2d  recognizance  at  the  court's  discre- 
tion. Preventive  detention  was  authorized  only  during  a  declared 
state  of  war  for  variously  defined  offenses,  such  as  treason  or 
mutiny. 

Court  proceedings  were  conducted  by  the  presiding  judge,  who 
norm2dly  also  questioned  witnesses.  The  entire  written  court  record 
was  used  as  the  basis  for  proceedings  in  the  courts  of  appeals.  Oral 
hearings  were  conducted  only  in  those  criminal  cases  in  which  courts 
of  appeal  had  original  jurisdiction,  such  as  criminal  charges  against 
certain  high  officials.  Neither  the  accused  nor  his  counsel  was 
present  when  a  case  was  considered  by  the  court  of  appeal.  An 
accused  person  had  the  right  to  effective  counsel.  Persons  lacking 
sufficient  funds  were  entitled  to  free  proceedings  so  that  their 
attorneys'  fees  2ind  direct  costs  were  borne  by  the  state.  Local  courts 
could  decide  to  conduct  a  trigd  behind  closed  doors  in  juvenile, 
domestic,  or  guardianship  cases,  or  when  publicity  would  offend 
mor2dity  or  endanger  state  secrets. 


341 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Incidence  of  Crime 

According  to  official  Finnish  data  for  1986,  the  largest  group 
of  crimes  covered  by  the  Criminal  Code  was  crimes  against  property 
(75  percent  of  the  total);  theft  alone  accounted  for  42  percent,  and 
embezzlement  and  fraud  for  15  percent.  Drunken  driving  constitut- 
ed 9  percent  of  all  Criminal  Code  violations,  and  crimes  against 
personal  safety,  mostly  assaults,  accounted  for  7  percent. 

During  the  1970s,  the  crime  rate  showed  a  rising  trend  cor- 
responding to  the  growing  affluence  of  the  country  and  to  the  shift 
in  population  from  the  rural  north  to  the  urban  south.  After  the 
mid-1970s,  however,  the  rate  for  many  crime  categories  leveled 
off;  in  some  cases  it  even  fell.  Robberies  decreased  during  the  1980s, 
and  bank  robberies  were  infrequent,  only  sixteen  cases  being  record- 
ed in  1986.  Assaults  increased  somewhat  during  the  same  period, 
roughly  parallel  to  the  increase  in  alcohol  consumption.  Embez- 
zlements and  fraud  increased  noticeably,  in  part  as  a  consequence 
of  the  mass  introduction  of  credit  cards  in  the  1980s.  Drunken  driv- 
ing offenses  slackened  off  relative  to  the  number  of  automobiles, 
from  a  rate  of  161  per  100,000  cars  in  1977  to  122  per  100,000 
cars  in  1985.  This  was  due  both  to  stricter  controls  and  to  an  abso- 
lute decrease  in  the  number  of  drunken  drivers. 

In  1986  the  number  of  murder  and  manslaughter  cases  inves- 
tigated by  the  police  amounted  to  143.  The  homicide  rate  of  3  per 
100,000  of  population  was  considered  to  be  high  by  European  stan- 
dards. Finland's  rate  of  assault  was  more  than  three  times  the  rate 
of  Denmark  and  Norway,  but  similar  to  that  of  Sweden.  Finland, 
however,  experienced  the  lowest  theft  rate  of  all  the  Scandinavian 
countries;  this  appeared  to  be  explained  by  differentials  in  the  lev- 
el of  prosperity,  urbanization,  cind  population  density  among  the 
nations.  Finland  was  also  lowest  in  narcotic  offenses  (see  Drug  En- 
forcement, this  ch.). 

Sentencing  and  Punishment 

Prison  sentences  for  criminal  offenses  were  of  three  kinds:  fully 
fixed  terms  of  fourteen  days  to  three  months;  fixed  terms  of  three 
months  to  twelve  years,  with  the  possibility  of  release  on  parole 
for  the  equivalent  of  the  remainder  of  the  original  sentence;  and 
life  terms,  which  had  no  minimum  time  but  which  allowed  release 
only  upon  pardon  by  the  president.  Courts  could  also  render  a  con- 
ditional sentence,  specifying  a  term  of  imprisonment,  but  estab- 
lishing a  probation  period  for  the  same  duration.  If  no  new  offense 
was  committed,  the  execution  of  the  sentence  would  be  considered 
complete. 


342 


National  Security 


Since  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  capital  punish- 
ment has  been  virtually  abolished  in  practice.  After  Finland's 
independence  in  1918,  capitcd  punishment  was  only  enforced  in 
wartime,  although  it  was  not  until  1949  that  it  was  formally 
proscribed  in  peacetime.  In  1972  executions  were  abolished.  In  prac- 
tice, life  imprisonment  was  reserved  for  the  crime  of  murder.  As 
of  the  end  of  1984,  only  twenty- seven  prisoners  were  serving  life 
terms.  Those  under  life  sentence  were  generally  pardoned  after  ten 
or  fifteen  years.  The  average  number  of  convictions  for  murder 
had  been  steadily  diminishing,  from  forty-six  annually  in  the  early 
1920s  to  eleven  in  the  late  1970s. 

Fines  were  the  most  common  form  of  punishment,  constituting 
90  percent  of  all  sentences  when  minor  traffic  offenses  were 
included.  In  addition  to  traffic  offenses,  fines  were  commonly 
applied  in  cases  of  petty  theft  and  petty  assault.  The  actual  amount 
of  a  fine  depended  on  the  income  and  wealth  of  an  individual.  Thus, 
a  fine  for  speeding,  normally  about  US$70,  could  be  assessed  at 
US$20  for  an  indigent  and  at  well  over  US$1,000  for  a  single  per- 
son with  a  high  salary. 

Of  299,000  persons  sentenced  in  1986,  less  than  9  percent 
(26,000)  were  given  prison  terms,  of  whom  fewer  than  half  (11 ,300) 
received  unconditional  sentences.  The  remainder  were  sentenced 
to  a  fine  together  with  a  conditional  prison  term.  A  considerable 
proportion  of  the  latter  category  were  persons  convicted  of  aggra- 
vated drunken  driving.  The  median  length  of  unconditional  pris- 
on sentences  was  4.1  months  in  1985.  Typical  sentences  were,  for 
theft,  3.4  months;  for  forgery,  8.0  months;  for  robbery,  9.5  months; 
for  aggravated  assault,  8.7  months.  About  95  percent  of  sentences 
were  for  under  2  years. 

The  daily  average  prison  population  was  marked  by  a  down- 
ward trend,  from  5,600  in  1976  to  about  4,200  in  1986.  But  the 
prisoner  rate  of  86  per  100,000  of  population  in  1986  was  still  much 
higher  than  rates  in  other  Nordic  countries  and  in  Western  Europe 
in  general.  Since  the  crime  rate  in  Finland  was  rather  low  in  com- 
parison with  the  other  Nordic  countries,  it  appeared  that  the  higher 
rate  of  incarceration  was  the  result  of  a  high  rate  of  solved  crime, 
a  greater  use  of  unconditional  sentencing,  and  longer  prison  terms. 

There  were  two  types  of  prisons — closed  prisons  and  open  insti- 
tutions. The  latter  were  classified  as  either  permanently  located 
open  prisons  or  as  labor  colonies  established  for  a  limited  period 
of  time  for  the  performance  of  certain  work.  Sentences  for  the  non- 
payment of  fines  as  well  as  sentences  of  up  to  two  years  were  served 
in  open  institutions,  if  the  prisoner  was  physically  able  to  perform 
the  work  and  if  the  danger  of  escaping  was  minimal. 


343 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

The  criminal  justice  system  applied  only  to  offenders  over  the 
age  of  fifteen.  Those  under  that  age  were  placed  under  the  custo- 
dy of  child  welfare  authorities.  Juveniles  between  fifteen  and  eigh- 
teen years  of  age  were  customarily  accorded  a  reduced  sentence, 
and  offenders  between  fifteen  and  twenty-one  were  more  likely  than 
adults  to  receive  conditional  sentences.  Those  in  this  age  group 
who  were  sentenced  to  an  unconditional  term  of  six  months  to  four 
years  might  be  sent  to  a  special  juvenile  prison.  Such  institutions 
were  meant  to  have  a  training  and  education  function,  but  in  prac- 
tice they  did  not  differ  gready  from  ordinary  prisons. 

Drug  Enforcement 

Narcotics  abuse  and  trafficking  were  relatively  small  problems, 
ranking  below  other  social  problems,  such  as  alcohol  abuse.  The 
narcotics  units  of  the  KPR  were  responsible  for  overseeing  drug 
enforcement  throughout  the  country.  Altogether,  there  were  about 
150  officers  working  in  drug  enforcement,  half  of  whom  were 
attached  to  the  Helsinki  police.  Drug  seizures  by  police  numbered 
200  to  300  cinnually,  but  they  accounted  for  only  about  3  percent 
of  the  drugs  consumed  in  the  country.  About  half  of  the  seizures 
consisted  of  heroin.  Police  estimated  that  more  than  60  percent  of 
all  illicit  narcotics  entering  Finland  in  the  late  1980s  had  originated 
in  Denmark.  The  most  common  carriers  were  returning  Finnish 
workers  living  outside  the  country,  particularly  in  Sweden. 

Finnish  laws  prohibited  the  use,  the  possession,  and  the  sale  of 
any  drugs  that  were  not  approved  pharmaceutical  products,  and 
the  laws  dealt  severely  with  all  drug-related  offenses.  No  formal 
distinction  was  made  regarding  the  quantity  or  the  potency  of  drugs 
involved  or  regarding  whether  possession  was  for  personal  use  or 
for  sale.  In  practice,  courts  assessed  penalties  according  to  the  type 
of  drug;  first  offenders,  possessing  drugs  for  personal  use  alone, 
usually  received  probation  and/or  a  fine.  The  annual  number  of 
sentences  for  narcotics  offenses  ranged  from  369  in  1981  to  1,070 
in  1985.  Nearly  half  of  these  cases  involved  only  drug  use,  the  prin- 
cipal drug  (73  percent  of  offenses)  being  marijuana.  Although  the 
number  of  persons  sentenced  was  obviously  rising,  observers 
believed  that  the  use  of  narcotics  was  diminishing.  The  higher  surest 
rate  was  a  result  of  a  widened  definition  of  what  constituted  a  nar- 
cotics offense  and  to  more  effective  police  control. 

*    *  * 

A  comprehensive  overview  of  the  contemp>orary  organization  and 
doctrine  of  the  Finnish  Defense  Forces  can  be  found  in  the  1988 


344 


National  Security 


work  by  Tomas  Ries,  Cold  Will:  The  Defence  of  Finland.  The  first 
part  of  this  study  provides  an  account  of  the  combat  experience 
of  the  armed  forces  in  the  Civil  War  of  1918  and  in  the  Winter 
War  and  Continuation  War  of  1939-44.  Friedrich  Wiener's  Die 
Armeen  der  neutralen  und  blockfreien  Staaien  Europas  provides  complemen- 
tary information  on  the  configuration  of  the  Defense  Forces, 
together  with  photographs  and  technical  data  on  weapons  and 
vehicles.  The  Military  Balance,  1988-89,  produced  by  the  Interna- 
tional Institute  for  Strategic  Studies  in  London,  contains  an 
up-to-date  listing  of  the  Finnish  arms  inventory. 

Fundamentals  of  Finnish  defense  strategy,  together  with  the 
organization  of  national  defense  and  the  structure  of  the  individual 
services,  are  summarized  in  a  concise  official  Ministry  of  Defense 
publication,  Finnish  National  Defence.  Although  its  appraisal  of  the 
strengths  and  the  weaknesses  of  the  armed  forces  is  no  longer  cur- 
rent, the  Report  of  the  Third  Parliamentary  Defence  Committee  (1981) 
contains  a  useful  analysis  of  Finland's  security  policy  and  its  stra- 
tegic position  in  Northern  Europe.  Aspects  of  Security:  The  Case  of 
Independent  Finland,  produced  by  the  Finnish  Military  History  Com- 
mission, traces  the  development  of  the  Defense  Forces  from  in- 
dependence in  1917  to  1985,  reviewing  Finnish  strategy  and  tac- 
tics in  the  campaigns  of  1939  to  1944. 

Numerous  studies  have  analyzed  Finland's  military  role  in  North- 
em  Europe  and  the  defense  of  Scandinavia.  Nordic  Security  by  Erling 
Bjol,  although  brief,  examines  the  common  geostrategic  issues  of 
the  region  and  the  diversified  approach  to  security  adopted  by  each 
of  the  five  Nordic  countries. 

The  organization  and  missions  of  the  Frontier  Guard  and  the 
police  are  summarized  in  two  short  official  publications,  The  Frontier 
Guard  in  Finland  and  The  Police  of  Finland.  The  Finnish  Legal  System, 
edited  by  Jaakko  Uotila,  contains  background  on  the  Finnish  sys- 
tem of  justice  and,  in  an  article  by  Inkeri  Anttila,  a  discussion  of 
criminal  law  and  punishment.  (For  further  information  and  com- 
plete citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


345 


Appendix  A 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Finnish  and  Swedish  Names  of  the  Provinces  and  of  Selected 

Place-names 

3  Presidents  of  Finland,  1919- 

4  Distribution  of  Parliamentary  Seats,  1966-87 

5  Coalition  Governments,  1966- 

6  Parliamentary  Election  Results,  1979-87 

7  National  Population  and  Percentage  Living  in  the  Urban 

Muncipalities,  Selected  years,  1800-1985 

8  Population  by  Province,  Selected  Years,  1960-85 

9  Finnish  Social  Welfare  Expenditures,  Selected  Years,  1974-85 

10  Social  Expenditures,  1980  and  1985 

1 1  Health  Care  Personnel  and  Facilities,  Selected  Years,  1960-85 

12  Sex  and  Age  Specific  Death  Rates  by  Cause,  1981-85 

13  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP),  by  Sector,  Selected  Years, 

1950-86 

14  Central  Government  Budget,  1982-86 

15  Labor  Force,  Selected  Years,  1950-85 

16  Production  of  Major  Form  Commodities,  Selected  Years, 

1980-86 

17  Use  of  Arable  Land,  Selected  Years,  1950-85 

18  Industrial  Production  by  Commodity,  1982-86 

19  Geographical  Distribution  of  Trade,  1982-87 

20  Balance  of  Payments,  1978-86 

21  Daily  Newspapers  with  Largest  Circulations,  1986 

22  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 

23  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1988 

24  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1988 


347 


Appendix  A 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m^)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


349 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Table  2.  Finnish  and  Swedish  Names  of  the  Provinces 
and  of  Selected  Place-names 


Finnish 


Swedish 


Provinces 


Ahvenanmaa 
Hame 

Keski-Suomi 

Kuopio 

Kymi 

Lappi 

Mikkeli 

Oulu 

Pohjois-Karjala 
Turku  ja  Fori 
Uusimaa 
Vaasa 


Aland 

Tavastehus 

Mellersta  Finland 

Kuopio 

Kymmene 

Lappland 

St.  Michel 

Uleaborg 

Norra  Karelen 

Abo  och  Bjorneborg 

Nyland 

Vasa 


Flace-names 


Espoo 

Hameenlinna 

Hamina 

Hanko 

Helsinki 

Kaskinen 

Kokkola 

Lahti 

Lappeenranta 
Loviisa 

Maarianhamina 
Fori 

Pietarsaari 

Forvoo 

Rajihe 

Saimaa 

Savonlinna 

Tammissari 

Tampere 

Tomio 

Turku 

Uusikaarlepyy 
Uusikaupunki 
Vaasa 
Vantaa 


Esbo 

Tavastehus 

Fredrikshamn 

Hango 

Helsingfors 

Kasko 

Gamlakarleby 
Lahtis 

Villmanstrand 

Lovisa 

Mariehamn 

Bjorneborg 

Jakobstad 

Borga 

Brcihestad 

Saima 

Nyslott 

Ekenas 

Tammerfors 

Tornea 

Abo 

Nykarleby 
Nystad 
Vasa 
Vanda 


350 


Appendix  A 


Table  3.  Presidents  of  Finland,  1919- 


Name 

Years  in  Office 

Former  Party  Allegiance 

  1919-25 

Young  Finn 

1925-31 

Agrarian 

1931-37 

National  Coalition 

Kyosti  Kallio   

1937-40 

Agrarian 

Risto  Ryti   

1940-44 

National  Progressive 

1944-46 

none 

1946-56 

National  Coalition 

1956-81 

Center 

1982-00 

Social  Democratic 

Table  4.  Distribution  of  Parliamentary  Seats,  1966-87 

Party  1966     1970     1972     1975     1979     1983  1987 

Finnish  Social  Democratic 

Party  (SDP)    55      52      55      54      52      57  56 

National  Coalition  Party 

(KOK)    26      37      34      35      47      44  53 

Center  Party  (Kesk)    49       36       35       39       36       38  40 

Finnish  People's  Democratic 

League  (SKDL)    41       36      37      40      35      26  20 

Swedish  People's 

Party  (SFP)   12       12       10       10       9       10  12 

Finnish  Rural 

Party  (SMP)   1       18       18        2        7       17  9 

Finnish  Christian 

League  (SKL)   0        1         4        9        9        3  5 

Liberal  People's 

Party  (LKP)    9        8        7        9        4        0  0 

Social  Democratic  Union 
of  Workers  and  Small 

Farmers  (TPSL)    7        0        0        0        0        0  0 

Others    0        0        0        2        1        5  5 

TOTAL    200     200     200     200     200     200  200 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1987,  Helsinki,  1987,  426. 


351 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Table  5.  Coalition  Governments,  1966- 


Prime  Minister 

Date  of  Nomination  (Party  Affiliation  ')  Coalition  Parties  ' 


May  27,  1966                              Rafael  Paasio  (SDP)  SDP,  Kesk,  SKDL,  TPSL, 

March  22,  1968                            Mauno  Koivisto  SDP,  Kesk,  SKDL,  TPSL, 

(SDP)  SFP 

May  14,  1970                               Teuvo  Aura  (none)  civil-service  caretaker 

July  15,  1970                               Ahti  Karjalainen  SDP,  Kesk,  SKDL,  LKP, 

(Kesk)  SFP  ^ 

October  29,  1971                           Teuvo  Aura  (none)  civil-service  caretaker 

February  23,  1972                        Rafael  Paasio  (SDP)  SDP 

September  4,  1972                        Kalevi  Sorsa  (SDP)  SDP,  Kesk,  SFP,  LKP 

June  13,  1975                               Keijo  Liinamaa  (none)  civil-service  caretaker 

November  30,  1975                       Martti  Miettunen  SDP,  SKDL,  Kesk,  SFP, 

(Kesk)  LKP 

September  29,  1976                       Martti  Miettunen  Kesk,  LKP,  SFP 

(Kesk) 

May  15,  1977                               Kalevi  Sorsa  (SDP)  Kesk,  SDP,  SKDL,  LKP, 

SFP' 

May  25,  1979                              Mauno  Koivisto  Kesk,  SDP,  SKDL,  SFP 

(SDP) 

February  19,  1982                        Kalevi  Sorsa  (SDP)  Kesk,  SDP,  SKDL, 

SFP* 

May  6,  1983                                Kalevi  Sorsa  (SDP)  SDP,  Kesk,  SMP,  SFP 

April  30,  1987                              Harri  Holkeri  SDP,  KOK,  SMP,  SFP 

(KOK) 


'  For  full  names  of  political  parties,  see  Table  4. 

2  After  March  26,  1971,  this  government  consisted  of  the  SDP,  Kesk,  LKP,  SFP. 

'  After  March  2,  1978,  this  government  consisted  of  the  Kesk,  SDP,  SKDL,  and  LKP. 

♦  After  December  30,  1982,  this  government  consisted  of  the  Kesk,  SDP,  and  SFP. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  David  Arter,  Politics  and  Policy-Making  in  Finland,  New 
York,  1987,  54;  and  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties 
in  Finland,  Turku,  Finland,  1984,  189. 


352 


Appendix  A 


•^eon*  

w  w  w  w  w  w  w  O 

■«vDOcnoor>.'rtOoa>0'«h^o  o 

cneo^Oeocoa^oooooocMa^  O 

in"  o"      CM  of  lo"      itT  r^T  (v^"  r^" 

Oi^DOr^oomcM'^r^cocM  o* 


(£> 

^ — s 

(4.6) 

to 

CM 

en 

CO 

in 

00 

o 

CM 

o 
cn 

CO 
CM 

o 

in 
a> 

in 

in 

CM 

in 

go" 

00 
CM 

CO 

t>- 

CM 

00^ 

CM 

CM 

^ 

^ — ■' 

CM 

00 

in 

00 

in 

in 

"<»<^ 

CM^ 

oo" 

CM 

oo" 

CM 

o 

CO 

CM 

CD 

<£> 

in 

in 

< 


8 


II 

G  a  a  a 
£  Z  U  £  £ 


^  6 
i  u 


Tj<    ^  CO 

C?  O  CM 

in  CO 

O  CO 

»^  CO  in 


CM  CO  in 
eo^^O^O^ 
O  00  vo 

<£)  in  --^  a> 
in  CO 


.5  c 

si  g 
6 

»  g  s 

H  £  (2 


O  a 
^  8 

III 
-S    I  S  e 

J  U  P  o 


c 

o  c 


a,  2 
2 

g  9- 
u 


^1 


PQ  O 


353 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  National  Population  and  Percentage  Living 
in  Urban  Municipalities,  Selected  Years,  1800-1985 


Percentage  Living  in 

Year  Population  Urban  Municipalities 


1800    832,700  5.6 

1850    1,636,900  6.4 

1900    2,655,900  12.5 

1920    3,147,600  16.1 

1940    3,695,600  26.8 

1950    4,029,800  32.3 

1960    4,446,200  38.4 

1970    4,598,300  50.9 

1980    4,787,800  59.8 

1985    4,910,700  59.8 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1987,  Helsinki,  1987,  38. 


Table  8.  Population  by  Province,  Selected  Years,  1960-85 
(in  thousands) 


Province 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1985 

21.0 

20.7 

22.8 

23.6 

580.8 

635.7 

664.3 

667.8 

245.0 

238.0 

242.9 

247.7 

270.5 

255.5 

252.1 

256.0 

337.8 

343.9 

344.3 

340.7 

205.1 

197.1 

194.9 

200.9 

Mikkeli   

234.6 

219.2 

208.6 

209.0 

Oulu   

407.0 

401.2 

416.9 

432.1 

207.7 

185.3 

176.7 

177.6 

,    ,  660.3 

675.1 

703.0 

713.0 

832.9 

1,005.2 

1,128.5 

1,187.9 

Vaasa  

443.5 

421.4 

432.8 

444.4 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1987,  Helsinki,  1987,  39. 


354 


Appendix  A 


Table  9.  Finnish  Social  Welfare  Expenditures, 
Selected  Years,  1974-85 


Social  Welfare  Index  of 

Amount                                        Expenditure  Per  Per  Capita  Social 

(in  millions  of     As  a  Percentage  of          Capita  (in  Welfare  Expenditure 

Year                 Finnish  marks  ')            GDP  '              Finnish  marks  ')  (1980  =  100) 


1974    14,168  15.7  3,021  70 

1976    23,863  20.3  5,049  87 

1978    31,557  22.0  6,639  95 

1980    40,042  20.8  8,377  100 

1982    55,433  22.5  11,484  112 

1984    72,300  23.4  14,810  124 

1985    82,799  24.6  16,891  134 


'  For  value  of  the  Finnish  mark — see  Glossary. 
*  GDP — gross  domestic  product. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nordic  Council  of  Ministers,  Nordic  Statistical  Secre- 
tariat, Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics,  1987,  Copenhagen,  1988,  316-17. 


Table  10.  Social  Expenditures,  1980  and  1985 
(in  millions  of  Finnish  marks)  * 


Item  of  Expenditure  1980  1985 


Health   10,717  23,157 

Industrial  injury  insurance  and  occupational  safety   578  1,139 

Unemployment    2,658  5,589 

Pensions,  old-age,  invalidity,  etc   17,899  36,050 

Family  and  child  welfare   4,468  9,915 

General  assistance    203  814 

Benefits  to  military  and  war  casualties    1,094  2,237 

Estimated  tzix  deduction  for  children   701  1,156 

Administrative  costs    1,286  2,742 


TOTAL   39,604  82,799 


•  For  value  of  the  Finnish  mark — see  Glossary. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nordic  Council  of  Ministers,  Nordic  Statistical  Secre- 
tariat, Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics,  1982,  Copenhagen,  1983,  278-79;  and  Nordic 
Council  of  Ministers,  Nordic  Statistical  Secretariat,  Yearbook  oj Nordic  Statistics,  1987, 
Copenhagen,  1988,  313-14. 


355 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Table  11.  Health  Care  Personnel  and  Facilities, 


Selected  Years,  1960-85 

lyou 

iQ7n 

1  QQA 

lyoD 

O  Q07 

A  1C\0 

4-,  /yo 

9,l)lD 

11,074 

1  '\(^^ 

you 

A.A.A. 

1  nno 

z,Dyj 

o,yoo 

*,DyD 

....  12,083 

20,783 

28,432 

43,989 

532 

562 

565 

577 

348 

357 

349 

372 

....  41,027 

52,264 

58,599 

60,958 

2,570 

3,145 

3,087 

3,068 

,  ,  .  521,336 

786,769 

954,577 

984,074 

Hospital  occupancy  rate 

91 

93 

85 

82 

  26.2 

21.9 

19.1 

18.3 

'  Includes  all  qualified  persons  under  age  sixty,  active  and  inactive. 
*  1983  figures. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1987,  Helsinki,  1987,  368,  370. 


Table  12.  Sex  and  Age  Specific  Death  Rates  by  Cause,  1981-85 
(Deaths  per  100,000  mean  population) 


Age 


Cause  of  Death 

0-34 

35-44 

45-54 

55-64 

65  + 

All 

Cardiovascular  diseases 

7.8 

83.2 

372.8 

1,075.5 

9,191.2 

514.3 

Cancer  

8.5 

33.8 

137.4 

502.7 

3,566.5 

211.8 

31.1 

47.3 

103.6 

224.6 

3,144.9 

169.9 

65.5 

134.2 

170.3 

175.4 

543.0 

114.1 

112.9 

298.5 

784.1 

1,978.2 

16,445.6 

1,010.1 

Cardiovascular  diseases 

2.6 

21.7 

71.9 

287.0 

6,515.2 

484.4 

6.6 

38.9 

113.6 

271.0 

1,720.0 

173.8 

23.5 

20.6 

42.3 

110.1 

2,055.8 

157.3 

Violent  deaths  *  

15.7 

28.4 

40.6 

45.2 

278.6 

29.6 

48.4 

109.6 

268.4 

713.3 

10,569.6 

845.1 

*  Includes  suicides,  accidents,  and  poisonings. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Nordic  Council  of  Ministers,  Nordic  Statistical  Secretziri- 
at.  Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics,  1987,  Copenhagen,  1988,  66-67. 


356 


Appendix  A 


u  o 

Oh 


< 

g  f2  Q 

V  o 


5  H 


6§ 


it 


VD 

en  00 

00 

CM  r-^ 

q 

CM 

q 

o 

O  en 

CM 

CM 

en 

CO  -h' 

in 

00  •<*<■ 

in 

d 
o 

cn 

00 
en 

o 

CM 
CM 

CM  CTl 
Ol 

^> 

en 

in 

q^  c^^ 

o 
en 

CM 

CM 

O 

CM  en 

^ 

In  ^ 

« 

en 

in  en 

00 

q  CM 

cm 

q  q 

CM 

O 

00 

O  in 

CM 

r«i 

cn 

(£> 
en 

00 

en 

00 

iri 
in 

d 
o 

O  00 

cn 

00 

cn 

CM^ 

CM 

en 
Oi 

CM  en 
'^^ 

in 

CM 

00  en 
00^ 

CM 

q_ 

CM 

-h"  in 

en 

CM 

oo" 
o 

cn  en" 
CM  cn 

oT 
cn 

in"  •^" 
in 

en" 

d" 

CM 

in 

CM 

q  q 

q 

o 

O  00 
CM 

CM 

cn 

d  en 

m 

d 
o 

en 
r» 
in 

-H  CO 

o 
00  -^^^ 

»*< 

in 

T»<  00 

<0  CM 

in 
r>. 

CM^ 

VO  CM 
—  CM 

<q  CM 

in 

CM 

q^ 

CM 

in 

oo' 

en" 

"*" 

cn"  d^ 

CM 

ctT 

oo"  d" 

CM 

oo" 

00 

CM 

o  q 

in 

CM 

q 

q 

O 

cn 

d 
en 

CM 

en 

00 

en 

CM 

00 

O 

o  o 
en 

CM 

o 

en 

CM  00 

cn 

CM  o 
O  en 
t^^  en 

q^ 

(£1 
O 
Ol 

in" 

en" 

<£>" 

cm"  cn" 

en" 

-h"  in" 

d" 

oo" 

en 

00 

r>>  00 

cn 

in  q 

in 

o 

d 

CM 

CM 

Oi 
en 

r-^  d 

00 

cn  d 

? 

i 

CM 

en 

cn 

in 
a> 
in 

en  in 
o 

R 

o 
en 

CM 

in  ■«*< 
o  ^ 
in  in 

q^ 

00 

q^ 

cm" 

en 

in" 

in 

■*" 

in  00 

cn 

<X)  cn 

CO 

en  00 

q 

o 

in 

CM 

d 

CM 

CM 

d 

d  d 

en 

00 

en 
cn 

1 

,234 

<£)  in 

CM  CM 

en 

in 

CM 

cn  cm 
a> 

en 

CM 
00 

00  CO 

O  — < 

CM 

en 

q_ 

CM 

r>. 

""J-" 

bo 
< 


•  bo 
C 

-T3  bo'C 
C  S  2 

>.  C   «S  3 


C  ho 
O  ^ 


II 


i 

5  c 


•^3 


5  § 

0^  OQ 


357 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Table  14.  Central  Government  Budget,  1982-86 
(in  millions  of  Finnish  Marks  ^) 


1982 

1983 

1984 

1985 

1986  * 

Current  revenue 

Income  from  property  and 
Other  domestic  current 

16,953 
33,206 

1,936 

2,822 
54,917 

19,298 
36,975 

2,228 

3,301 
61,802 

22,225 
43,530 

2,649 

3,858 
72,262 

25,384 
47,803 

2,986 

4,638 
80,811 

30,015 
52,498 

2,812 

4,269 
89,594 

Current  expenditure 
Purchase  of  goods  and 

Property  income  payable  .... 
TOTAL  (current  exp)enditure)  .  . 

15,044 
7,377 
2,171 
26,703 
51,295 

17,371 
8,459 
3,096 
32,409 
61,335 

18,374 
9,340 
3,824 
35,984 
67,522 

20,672 
9,878 
4,575 
40,471 
75,596 

21,973 
10,990 
4,582 
43,267 
80,812 

GROSS  SAVING   

3,622 
1,037 
4,659 

467 
1,172 
1,639 

4,740 
1,223 
5,963 

5,215 
1,353 
6,568 

8,782 
1,487 
10,269 

Capital  investment 
Gross  fixed  capital 

Purchases  of  land,  net   

TOTAL  (capital  investment)  .  .  . 

3,268 
170 
254 

3,692 

3,822 
216 
335 

4,373 

3,758 
134 
232 

4,124 

4,024 
156 
193 

4,373 

4,321 
156 
350 

4,827 

Surplus  on  current  and  fixed 
Capital  transfers  to  other 

967 
-1,849 

-2,734 
-1,625 

1,839 
-1,732 

2,195 
-1,805 

5,442 
-1,699 

-882 

-4,359 

107 

390 

3,743 

'  For  value  of  the  Finnish  mark — see  Glossary. 
Provisional  figures. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Develop- 
ment, Finland,  Paris,  April  1988,  113. 


358 


Appendix  A 


Table  15.  Labor  Force,  Selected  Years,  1950-85 
(in  thousands  of  persons) 


1950 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1985 

Liabor  lorce 

Employed 

Agriculture,  forestry, 

909  3 

720.8 

429.0 

27Q  9 

241 .8 

TnHiicffv 

412  7 

439.3 

549.5 

584.7 

554.2 

125.4 

176.2 

176.8 

156.7 

168.4 

187.6 

276.4 

399.8 

425.8 

483.4 

Transportation,  com- 

munications, etc  

106.7 

128.8 

150.2 

175.7 

172.6 

214  2 

285.5 

383.9 

550.1 

648.9 

Other   

28.4 

6.2 

29.0 

50.7 

7.5 

Totzil  employed   

1,984.3 

2,033.2 

2,118.2 

2,222.9 

2,276.8 

T  Tri<*nnrjlrivpH 

144.7 

114.0 

139.1 

n.a. 

n.a. 

2,262.9 

2,336.9 

2,415.9 

PnTMilatinn 

4  029  8 

4  446.2 

4  598.3 

4  787.8 

4  910.7 

Working-age  population 

(15-75)   

2,740.7 

3,003.0 

3,354.4 

3,625.1 

3,711.4 

Labor  force  participation 

n.a. 

n.a. 

67.5 

64.5 

65.1 

Unemployment  rate 

n.a. 

n.a. 

6.4 

4.9 

5.8 

n.a. — Not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Centrjil  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1985-86,  Helsinki,  1986,  6,  44,  302,  and  additional  information  from 
Embassy  of  Finland,  Washington. 


359 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Table  16.  Production  of  Major  Farm  Commodities, 
Selected  Years,  1980-86 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 


Commodity  1980  1985  1986 


Grains 

Barley   1,534  1,854  1,714 

Oats    1,258  1,218  1,174 

Rye   124  72  70 

Wheat   357  473  529 

Other  Grains    28  27  32 

Oilseeds 

Rapeseed    88  95  105 

Root  crops 

Potatoes    736  600  700 

Sugar  Beets    900  704  843 

Fruits  and  vegetables 

Apples    8  10  10 

Tomatoes    20  20  20 

Animal  products 

Beef  and  Veal   112  125  124 

Cow's  mUk   3,277  3,083  3,044 

Eggs    79  85  81 

Mutton  and  Lamb    1  1  1 

Pork    169  171  172 

Poultry    15  20  21 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Department  of  Agriculture,  Economic 
Research  Service,  World  Indices  of  Agricultural  and  Food  Production,  1976-1985, 
Washington,  1986,  58,  and  additional  data  from  the  Economic  Research  Service. 


360 


Appendix  A 


Table  17.  Use  of  Arable  Land,  Selected  Years,  1950-85 
(in  thousands  of  hectares) 


Crop 

1950 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1985 

Grains 

  115.1 

212.7 

403.5 

533.4 

645.7 

437  4 

490.3 

524.3 

447.8 

41 1.3 

1  1  ft  7 
1  lU.  / 

00.17 

Do. 3 

^ft  Q 

Wheat   

  188.7 

180.8 

175.5 

124.3 

157.0 

  14.7 

24.3 

27.7 

12.1 

9.2 

Oilseeds 

o.o 

J  J.  J 

'i?  7 

Root  crops 

  95.8 

86.4 

60.1 

40.9 

39.4 

  10.1 

14.9 

14.9 

31.7 

31.2 

Animal  feed 

Fodder   

  21.8 

15.2 

13.6 

n.a. 

n.a. 

Hay  

  1,001.4 

1,139.0 

873.3 

477.8 

397.7 

  20.9 

12.1 

52.3 

233.6 

222.9 

  220.9 

237.8 

230.7 

203.3 

169.8 

  92.8 

69.7 

170.9 

246.9 

167.9 

Fallow  

  78.0 

56.7 

47.8 

102.3 

69.7 

TOTAL   

  2,430.9 

2,654.0 

2,667.1 

2,562.7 

2,410.4 

n.a. — Not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1985-86,  Helsinki,  1986,  84-85. 


361 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Table  18.  Industrial  Production  by  Commodity,  1982-86 

Year 


Commodity  Unit  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986 
Wood  products 

CeUiilose    1,000  tons  4,048  4,384  4,743  4,734  4,686 

Fiberboard    -do-  136  137  140        109  86 

Mechanical  pulp  for 

sale    -do-  36  31  37          34  37 

Paper  and  paperboard  .  .  .  -do-  5,752  6,295  6,661  7,412  7,491 

Plywood  and  veneers   1,000  m'  537  582  551         513  568 

Sawn  goods   -do-  5,822  7,327  7,611  6,350  6,449 

Chemicals 

Fertilizers    1,000  tons  1,511  1,755  1,778  1,752  1,669 

Nitric  acid   -do-  409  541  545        484  508 

OU  products    -do-  8,602  9,010  8,765  8,880  7,841 

Sulphuric  acid   -do-  1,032  1,149  1,165  1,439  1,359 

Metal  products 

Copper  cathodes    -do-  48.0  55.4  57.3       58.8  64.2 

Crude  steel    -do-  2,414  2,416  2,632  2,519  2,588 

Hot  rolled  steel 

products   -do-  1,847  1,964  1,985  2,063  1,996 

Nickel  cathodes    -do-  12.3  14.5  15.3        15.7  17.8 

Pig  iron   -do-  1,944  1,898  2,034  1,890  1,979 

Zinc    -do-  155  155  159         160  155 

Other 

Cement    -do-  1,907  1,979  1,692  1,623  1,261 

Cotton  fabrics    -do-  16.6  17.2  16.5         9.1  8.1 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Finland, 
1988-89,  London,  1988,  18. 


362 


Appendix  A 


Table  19.  Geographical  Distribution  of  Trade,  1982-87 
(in  percentage  of  tot2il  value  of  imports  or  exports) 

1982       1983       1984       1985       1986  1987 


Exports 


^4.  Q 

^7  Q 

^7  n 

4.9  9 

EFTA  2   

  19.2 

18.2 

19.2 

19.7 

22.0 

22.7 

  28.8 

27.7 

20.8 

23.4 

22.0 

17.1 

  26.7 

26.1 

19.0 

21.5 

20.3 

15.4 

  12.0 

12.3 

12.3 

13.2 

14.8 

15.0 

  10.8 

10.3 

12.0 

10.8 

10.5 

11.4 

  9.1 

9.5 

9.6 

9.3 

9.7 

10.9 

n.a. 

n.a. 

3.9 

4.5 

5.3 

United  States  

  3.2 

4.0 

8.2 

6.3 

5.4 

5.2 

  4.9 

3.3 

4.5 

4.2 

4.5 

4.7 

  2.6 

3.6 

4.1 

4.0 

4.0 

3.9 

  3.1 

4.0 

3.5 

3.3 

3.5 

3.6 

mports 

EC  »   

  33.5 

33.6 

35.6 

38.7 

43.1 

44.4 

1  7  Q 

1  7  ^ 

1  7  Q 

17  9 

1Q  1 

lo.D 

  13.3 

13.1 

13.9 

14.9 

17.0 

17.4 

  28.0 

28.5 

26.2 

24.1 

18.2 

17.0 

  24.6 

25.7 

23.1 

21.0 

15.3 

14.4 

  12.2 

11.2 

12.3 

11.8 

13.6 

12.9 

  7.3 

6.6 

7.7 

7.2 

6.5 

7.1 

n.a. 

n.a. 

5.3 

6.5 

7.1 

n.a. 

5.0 

5.4 

4.8 

5.2 

n.a. 

n.a. 

3.4 

4.5 

4.3 

  2.6 

2.7 

2.7 

2.9 

3.1 

3.1 

  2.3 

1.7 

2.4 

2.5 

2.8 

2.8 

  2.1 

2.6 

2.1 

2.4 

2.2 

2.2 

n.a. — Not  available. 

'  EC — European  Community  (see  Glossary). 

^  EFTA — European  Free  Trade  Association  (see  Glossary). 

'  Comecon — Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (see  Glossary). 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Finland, 
1988-89,  London,  1988,  27-8. 


363 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


00 

-H  o 


00  CM 
00 
00^  (£>_ 

ci  cm" 


CM 
CD 


00  in 


■  u 
-   .  < 

M  n5  H 


CM 

e<^ 

00 

in 

00 

O 

CO 

CM 

vo 

1-^ 

in 

CO 

CM 

o 

CM 

•>*" 

CM 

00 

o 

in 

CO 

CM 

CO 

CM 

o 

in 

CM 

CO 

00 

^ 

CM 

T 

CO 

in 

CM 

1 

1 

1 

CM 

1 

in 

CM 

in 

CM 

CO 

CO 

o 

CO 

CM 

CO 

r-. 

in 

CM 

O 

(£> 

eo 

O) 

in 

(£) 

00 

CM 

CM 

CO 

in 

"T 

O 

CO 

CM 

00 

CM 

CM 

CM 

1 

1 

1 

^  o 

CO  00 
<0  CM 


C/3 

o 
> 

Q 

< 

Q 
O 
O 

o 
z 
o 

(73  PQ 


CM  CM 

CM  in  r-* 


CO  O 

^  0^ 


O  CM- 
CM  o 


in 
I  I 


CM  CM 
CM  ^ 


in  r>.  CM  m 

CO  in 
I     I     I  (O 


u 
z 

^  «  .2  J  w 
"-^  >  ,S  <  CtJ 
c  c  S  H 
2  Oh  O  Q  p 


o 

CM 


O  CM 
CM 


in  CO 

CO 


—  o 

^5  — . 


O  CM 
00 
I  CM 


CO 

in  CO 
CO  in 


CO  (r> 

CO  CO 


Ol  CO 

in 

CO 


CM  in 

T*>  00 
CM 


■^J"  —  <£> 
00  —  O  <£> 

t-*  -H  m 


J  < 

>  I—  << 


c  £  O  o 


"i" 

CO  ■<*•  in  CM  CO 
(£)  CO    I  in 


00  CO 
in  CM  in 

I  CM 


in  CM 
CO  in 

CO  CM 


Tf>  CO 


CM  CO 

in  CTi 

CM  CO 


00  in 
O  in 

CM 


in  00 

o 

CM  CM  I 

I 


00  O) 

Oi 

LD    —  — 


in 

CO  CO 

in  o 


'u 

^  1 


"(3  .  5 


^i5 

PC* 
^    03  C/5 


> 


.    -   .   o  <  ^ 

J  Z  Oh  W  O 


C/3 


364 


Appendix  A 


^  ^  o 

I  CD 


O 

•rt  CO 


^  00  CO 
»-<  CM 


e  - 
5   •  ^ 

S  S  Q  S 

r        3     O  H 

-  §.2  0 


•n 


si 
i 

■§  1 

o  o 


BP 

o 

p 


el 


II 


J3    3  fa 


it 

«J  ^  « 

09    (4  if 

ill 

«  «  3j 

S  I  " 
•ait;  oj 

«  00  U  o 

«    .o    <o  C/3 


365 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Table  21.  Daily  Newspapers  with  Largest  Circulations,  1986 

Frequency  of 


riace  oi 

Appearance 

Party 

Newspaper 

Publication 

per  week 

Affiliation  * 

Circulation 

Helsmgin  Sanomat 

rlelsmki 

7 

none 

A  QA  OKI 

Ilta-Sanomat 

Helsinki 

0 

none 

iyj,y / 1 

Aamulehti 

Tampere 

/ 

140,918 

Xurun  Sanomat 

Turku 

7 

none 

Nlaaseudun  Tulevaisuus 

Helsinki 

o 
3 

none 

Uusi  Suomi 

rieismKi 

7 

none 

no  CQC 

K.aleva 

vJUlU 

7 

none 

QQ  177 

Savon  Sanomat 

Kuopio 

7 

JvesK 

QK  1  <t7 
oD,lD/ 

iiiaicnii 

Helsinki 

a 
o 

none 

7ft  Q4.Q 

K.eskisuomalainen 

Jyvaskyla 

7 

j\.esK 

7f:  9Q^ 

Kotimaa 

rleisinKi 

q 

J 

none 

7<i  A<;a 

Kauppalehti 

rlelsmki 

D 

none 

70  QQQ 

Etela-Suomen  Sanomat 

Lianti 

7 

none 

00, 1*0 

Hufvudstadsbladet 

rieisinKi 

7 

none 

00,Uol7 

Pohjalainen 

Vaasa 

7 

7 

K(JK. 

o4-,00o 

Satakunnan  K.ansa 

Pori 

7 

An  Qn7 

iiKKa 

Seinajoki 

7 

Karjalainen 

Joensuu 

7 

KOK 

53,364 

Kansan  Uutiset 

Helsinki 

6 

SKDL 

41,504 

Lapin  Kansa 

Rovaniemi 

7 

none 

40,407 

Pohjolan  Sanomat 

Kemi 

7 

Kesk 

39,149 

£tela-Saim£ia 

Lappeenranta 

7 

Kesk 

34,304 

Suomen  Sosialidemokraatti 

Helsinki 

5 

SDP 

34,099 

Keskipohjanmaa 

Kokkola 

7 

Kesk 

33,064 

Suomenmaa 

Helsinki 

5 

Kesk 

32,802 

•  For  full  names  of  political  parties,  see  Table  4. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Finland,  Central  Statistical  Office,  Statistical  Yearbook 
of  Finland,  1987,  Helsinki,  1987,  410. 


366 


Appendix  A 

Table  22.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1988 


Estimated 

Number  in  Country  of 

Type  Inventory  Manufacture 


Armored  vehicles 

T-54/T-55  main  battle  tank  

T-72  main  battle  tank   

PT-76  light  reconnaissance  tank  

BMP-1  infantry  combat  vehicle   

BTR-50P  armored  personnel  carrier, 

tracked   

BTR-60P  armored  personnel  carrier, 

8  wheeled   

A- 180  Pasi  armored  personnel  carrier, 

6  wheeled   

Towed  artillery 

M-37,  M-61  105mm  howitzer   

M-38,  D-30  122mm  howitzer   

M-54  130mm  field  gun   

M-40  150mm  howitzer  

M-38  152mm  howitzer  

M-74  155mm  howitzer  

Coast  artillery 

D-IOT  tank  turrets,  100mm  

M-60  122mm  gun   

130mm  turret  gun   

152mm  turret  gun   

Surface-to-surface  missiles  (coastal  defense) 
RES- 15   

Mortars 

M-56,  M-64,  M-71  81mm   

M-43  120mm   

Antitank  wire-guided  missiles 

AT-4  (SPIGOT)   

I-TOW  (tube-launched,  optically 

tracked,  wire-guided)  

Recoilless  rifles 

M-55  55mm  

SM  58-61  95mm   

Air  defense  guns 

ZU-23  23mm   

Oerlikon  GDF-002  35mm   

Bofors  L-60/Bofors  L-70  40mm  

S-60  57mm  towed   

ZSU  57-2  self-propelled   

Surface-to-air  missiles 

SA-3  GOA   

SA-7/SA-14  shoulder-fired  


100 

Soviet  Union 

50 

-do- 

15 

-do- 

30 

-do- 

90 

-do- 

60 

-do- 

59 

Finland 

70  + 

-do- 

n.a. 

Soviet  Union 

170 

-do- 

n.a. 

Germany  (World  War  II) 

240 

Soviet  Union 

1  0 

-do- 

n.a. 

-do- 

n.a. 

Finland 

1  /u 

— ao— 

240 

-do- 

n.a. 

Sweden 

800 

Finland 

550 

Soviet  Union  and  Finland 

24 

Soviet  Union 

12 

United  States 

n.a. 

Soviet  Union 

100 

Finland 

n.a. 

Soviet  Union 

n.a. 

Switzerland 

100  + 

Sweden 

12 

Soviet  Union 

12 

-do- 

n.a. 

-do- 

n.a. 

-do- 

n.a. — Not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Military  Balance,  1988-89,  London,  1988,  88;  and 
Tomas  Ries,  Cold  Will:  The  Defence  of  Finland,  London,  1988,  215-6. 


367 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Table  23.  Major  Naval  Equipment,  1988 


Type 


Number         Date  Commissioned 


Corvettes 

Turunmaa  class,  660  tons,  120mm  gun,  1968,  modernized 

antisubmarine  rocket  launchers   2  1984-86 

Missile  craft 

Helsinki  class  fast  attack,  300  tons,  eight 

RBS-15  SF  missUes    4  1981-86 

Helsinki-2  class,  200  tons    4            projected  1990-92 

Tuima  class  210  tons  (Soviet  OSA-II), 

four  SS-N-2A  Styx  missiles    4           purchased  1974-75 

Isku  (experimental),  four  SS-N-2A 

Styx  missiles    1  1970 

Fast  attack  craft  (gun) 

NuoH  class,  40  ton    6             1961-66,  moder- 
nized 1979 

Ruissalo  class,  130  ton,  antisubmarine  1959,  modernized 

minelaying    3  1977-80 

Rihtniemi  class,  110  ton,  antisubmarine  1957,  modernized 

minelaying    2  1981 

Minelayers 

Pohjanmaa,  1100  ton    1  1981 

Keihassalmi,  360  ton    1  1957 

Minesweepers 

Kuha  class,  inshore    6  1974-75 

Kiiski  class    7  1984 

Landing  craft,  utility 

Kampela  class,  90  ton    3  1976-79 

Kala  class,  60  ton   6  1956-59 

Kave  class,  27  ton    5  1956-60 

Coast  Guard 

Large  offshore  patrol  craft,  700  ton    2  1986-87 

Large  patrol  craft    5  1963-87 

Coastal  patrol  craft   24             15  in  1981-86, 

others  earlier 

*  All  ships  constructed  in  Finlaind  except  Tuima  class  missile  craft,  which  were  built  in  the  Soviet  Union. 
Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1988-89,  London,  1988,  155-62. 


368 


Appendix  A 


Table  24.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1988 

Country  First 
Type  Number         Manufacture  Acquired 


Fighters-interceptors  * 

MiG-21bis   

SAAB  J-35  Draken   

Training 

MiG-21  U/UM   

SK-35C  Draken   

Hawk  MK-51   

L-70  Vinka   

Reconnaissance 

Hawk  MK-51   

Transport 

F-27  Fokker,  nmedium   

Mi-8  helicopter   

Hughes  500  helicopter   

Liaison 

CM- 170  Magister   

Piper  (Cherokee  Arrow  and  Chieftain) 


30  Soviet  Union  1978 

41              Sweden  1974 

4  Soviet  Union  1974 

4  Sweden  1972 
39  Britain  1980 
30             Finland  1979 

8              Britain  1980 

3  Netherlands  1980 

6  Soviet  Union  1973 

2  United  States  1975 

5  France  1964 
14  United  States  n.a. 


*  Some  in  conversion  and  training  status. 

Source:  Tomas  Ries,  Cold  Will:  The  Defence  of  Finland,  London,  1988,  217-8,  and  The  Mili- 
tary Balance,  1988-89,  London,  1988,  88. 


369 


Appendix  B 


TREATY 

of  Friendship,  Cooperation,  and  Mutual  Assistance  between  the  Republic  of 
Finland  and  the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics. 

The  President  of  the  Republic  of  Finland  and  the  Presidium  of  the  Supreme  Soviet 
of  the  U.S.S.R.; 

Desiring  further  to  develop  friendly  relations  between  the  Republic  of  Finland  and 
the  U.S.S.R.; 

Being  convinced  that  the  strengthening  of  good  neighbourly  relations  and 
co-operation  between  the  Republic  of  Finland  and  the  U.S.S.R.  lies  in  the  interest 
of  both  countries; 

Considering  Finland's  desire  to  remain  outside  the  conflicting  interests  of  the  Great 
Powers;  and 

Expressing  their  firm  endeavour  to  collaborate  towards  the  maintenance  of  inter- 
national peace  and  security  in  accordance  with  the  aims  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Organization; 

Have  for  this  purpose  agreed  to  conclude  the  present  Treaty  and  have  appointed 
as  their  Plenipotentiaries: 

The  President  of  the  Republic  of  Finland:  Mauno  Pekkala,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Finland; 

The  Presidium  of  the  Supreme  Soviet  of  the  U.S.S.R.:  Viacheslav  Mihailovich 
Molotov,  Vice-Chairman  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  U.S.S.R.  and  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs, 

who,  after  exchange  of  their  full  powers,  found  in  good  and  due  form,  have  agreed 
on  the  following  provisions: 

ARTICLE  1 

In  the  eventuality  of  Finland,  or  the  Soviet  Union  through  Finnish  territory, 
becoming  the  object  of  an  armed  attack  by  Germany  or  any  State  allied  with  the  latter, 
Finland  will,  true  to  its  obligations  as  an  independent  State,  fight  to  repel  the  attack. 
Finland  will  in  such  cases  use  all  its  available  forces  for  defending  its  territorial  integrity 
by  land,  sea  and  air,  and  will  do  so  within  the  frontiers  of  Finlzmd  in  accordance  with 
obligations  defined  in  the  present  Treaty  and,  if  necessary,  with  the  assistance  of, 
or  jointly  with,  the  Soviet  Union. 

In  the  cases  aforementioned  the  Soviet  Union  will  give  Finland  the  help  required, 
the  giving  of  which  will  be  subject  to  mutual  agreement  between  the  Contracting  Parties. 

ARTICLE  2 

The  High  Contracting  Parties  shall  confer  with  each  other  if  it  is  established  that 
the  threat  of  an  armed  attack  in  Article  1  is  present. 

ARTICLE  3 

The  High  Contracting  Parties  give  assurance  of  their  intention  loyally  to  partici- 
pate in  all  measures  towards  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  in 
conformity  with  the  aims  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Organization. 


371 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


ARTICLE  4 

The  High  Contracting  Parties  confirm  their  pledge,  given  under  Article  3  of  the 
Peace  Treaty  signed  in  Paris  on  February  10th,  1947,  not  to  conclude  any  alliance 
or  join  any  coalition  directed  against  the  other  High  Contracting  Party. 


ARTICLE  5 

The  High  Contracting  Parties  give  assurance  of  the  decision  to  act  in  a  spirit  of 
co-operation  and  friendship  towards  the  further  development  and  consolidation  of  eco- 
nomic and  cultural  relations  between  Finland  and  the  Soviet  Union. 


ARTICLE  6 


The  High  Contracting  Parties  pledge  themselves  to  observe  the  principle  of  the 
mutual  respect  of  sovereignty  and  integrity  and  that  of  non-interference  in  the  inter- 
nal affairs  of  the  other  State. 


ARTICLE  7 

The  execution  of  the  present  Treaty  shall  take  place  in  accordance  with  the  princi- 
ples of  the  United  Nations  Organization. 


ARTICLE  8 

The  present  Treaty  shall  be  ratified  and  remains  in  force  ten  years  after  the  date 
of  its  coming  into  force.  The  Treaty  shall  come  into  force  upon  the  exchange  of  the 
instruments  of  ratification,  the  exchange  taking  place  in  the  shortest  time  possible 
in  Helsinki. 

Provided  neither  of  the  High  Contracting  Parties  has  denounced  it  one  year  before 
the  expiration  of  the  said  ten-year  period,  the  Treaty  shall  remain  in  force  for  subse- 
quent five-year  periods  until  either  High  Contracting  Party  one  year  before  the  expira- 
tion of  such  five-year  periods  in  writing  notifies  its  intention  of  terminating  the  validity 
of  the  Treaty. 

In  witness  hereof  the  Plenipotentiaries  have  signed  the  present  Treaty  and  affixed 
their  seals. 

Done  in  the  City  of  Moscow  on  the  sixth  day  of  April  1948  in  two  copies,  in  the 
Finnish  and  the  Russian  languages,  both  texts  being  authentic. 


The  Plenipotentiary  of  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland: 
Mauno  Pekkala. 


The  Plenipotentiary  of  the 
Presidium  of  the  Supreme 
Soviet  of  the  U.S.S.R.: 
V.  Molotov. 


372 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Ahto,  Sampo.  "The  War  in  Lapland,"  Revm  Internationale  d'His- 

toire  Militaire  [Vaasa,  Finland],  No.  62,  1985,  223-40. 
Alapuro,  Risto.  State  and  Revolution  in  Finland.  Berkeley:  University 

of  California  Press,  1988. 
Alestalo,  Matti,  and  Stein  Kuhnle.  The  Scandinavian  Route.  (Research 

Reports,  Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology,  31.) 

Helsinki:  University  of  Helsinki,  1984. 
Allardt,  Erik,  and  Karljohan  Miemois.  The  Swedish  Speaking  Minority 

in  Finland.  (2d  rev.  ed.)  (Research  Reports,  Research  Group  for 

Comparative  Sociology,  61).  Helsinki:  University  of  Helsinki, 

1981. 

Allison,  Roy.  Finland's  Relations  with  the  Soviet  Union,  1944-84.  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1985. 

Anderson,  Edgar.  "Finnish-Baltic  Relations,  1918-1940:  An 
Appraisal,"  Scandinavian  Studies,  54,  1982,  51-72. 

Anderson,  Ingvar.  A  History  of  Sweden.  New  York:  Praeger,  1968. 

Andreen,  Per  Gudmund.  Finland  i  Brdnnpunkten,  Mars  1940-Juni 
1941.  Stockholm:  Lindfors,  1980. 

Apunen,  Osmo.  "Urho  Kekkonen  and  the  Finnish  Policy  of 
Peace."  Pages  32-48  in  Keijo  Korhonen  (ed.),  Urho  Kekkonen: 
A  Statesman  for  Peace.  London:  William  Heinemann,  1975. 

Arter,  David.  Politics  and  Policy-Making  in  Finland.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1987. 

 "Socisil  Democracy  in  a  West  European  Outpost:  The 

Case  of  the  Finnish  SDP,"  Polity,  12,  Spring  1980,  363-87. 

Barros,  James.  The  Aland  Islands  Question:  Its  Settlement  by  the  League 
of  Nations.  New  Haven:  Y2Je  University  Press,  1968. 

Bartenev,  T.  "USSR-Finland:  Good- Neighborly  Cooperation," 
International  Affairs  [Moscow],  No.  3,  March  1976,  72-80. 

Barton,  H.  Arnold.  Scandinavia  in  the  Revolutionary  Era,  1760-1815. 
Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota,  1986. 

Beck,  Peter  J.  "The  Winter  War  in  the  International  Context:  Brit- 
ain and  the  League  of  Nations'  Role  in  the  Russo-Finnish  Dis- 
pute, m9-m0,'' Journal  of  Baltic  Studies,  12,  Spring  1981,  58-73. 

Billington,  James  H.  "Finland."  Pages  117-44  in  Cyril  E.  Black 
and  Thomas  P.  Thornton  (eds.).  Communism  and  Revolution.  The 
Strategic  Uses  of  Political  Violence.  Princeton:  Princeton  University 
Press,  1964. 


373 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Bliicher,  Wipert  von.  Gesandter  Zwischen  Diktatur  und  Demokratie.  Erin- 
nerungen  cms  den  Jahren  1935-1944.  Wiesbaden:  Limes  Verlag,  1951. 

Borenhas,  Tancred.  Field-Marshal  Mannerheim.  London:  Hutchin- 
son, 1940. 

Borg,  Olavi,  and  Jukka  Paastela.  Communist  Participation  in  Govern- 
mental Coalitions:  The  Case  of  Finland.  (Research  Reports,  59.)  Tcim- 
pere,  Finland:  Department  of  Politicad  Science,  University  of 
Tampere,  1981. 

Brodin,  Katarina.  "Urho  Kekkonen's  Foreign  Policy  Doctrine: 
Continuity  and  Innovation."  Pages  13-23  in  Keijo  Korhonen 
(ed.),  Urho  Kekkonen:  A  Statesrmn  for  Peace.  London:  William 
Heinemann,  1975. 

Burnham,  R.E.  Who  Are  the  Finns?  A  Study  in  Prehistory.  London: 
Faber  and  Faber,  1946.  Reprint.  New  York,  AMS,  1979. 

Chew,  Allen  F.  The  White  Death:  The  Epic  of  the  Soviet-Finnish  Winter 
War.  Lansing:  Michigan  State  University  Press,  1971. 

Clarkson,  Jesse.  A  History  of  Russia.  New  York:  Random  House, 
1961. 

Coaikley,  John.  "Political  Succession  and  Regime  Change  in  New 
States  in  Inter- war  Europe:  Ireland,  Finland,  Czechoslovakia, 
and  the  Baltic  Republics,"  European  Journal  of  Political  Research 
[Odense,  Denmark],  14,  No.  1-2,  187-206. 

Delegations  for  the  Promotion  of  Economic  Cooperation  Between 
the  Northern  Countries.  The  Northern  Countries  in  the  World  Econ- 
omy. Denmark-Finland-Iceland-Norway-Sweden.  Helsinki:  Otava: 
1939. 

Denison,  Y.  "USSR-Finland:  Model  of  Cooperation,"  International 
Affairs  [Moscow],  May  1977,  50-58. 

Derry,  Thomas  K.  A  History  of  Scandinavia.  Norway,  Sweden,  Den- 
mark, Finland,  and  Iceland.  London:  Allen  and  Unwin,  1979. 

Elder,  Neil,  Alastair  H.  Thomas,  and  David  Arter.  The  Consensual 
Democracies?  The  Government  and  Politics  of  the  Scandinavian  States. 
Oxford:  Martin  Robertson,  1982. 

Eking,  John  Robert.  Battles  for  Scandinavia.  New  York:  Time-Life, 
1981. 

Erfurth,  Waldemar.DerFinnischeKrieg,  1941-1944.  (2nd  ed.)  Wies- 
baden: Limes  Verlag:  1977. 
Facts  about  Finland.  Helsinki:  Otava,  1985. 

Finland.  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland.  Statistical  Yearbook  of 
Finland,  1987.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1987. 

 Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  The  Finnish  Blue  Book.  The 

Development  of  Finnish-Soviet  Relations  During  the  Autumn  of  1939, 
Including  the  Official  Documents  and  the  Peace  Treaty  of  March  12,  1940. 
Philadelphia:  J.B.  Lippincott,  1940. 


374 


Bibliography 


Finnish  National  Commission  for  UNESCO.  Cultural  Pluralism  and 
the  Problem  of  Minorities  in  Finland.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  UNESCO, 
1981. 

Gilberg,  Trond.  ''Finland."  Pages  37-62  in  William  J.  Taylor, 
Jr.,  and  Paul  M.  Cole  (eds.),  Nordic  Defense:  Comparative  Decision 
Making.  Lexington,  Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1985. 

Graham,  Malbone  W.  The  Diplomatic  Recognition  of  the  Border  States. 
Part  I:  Finland.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1936. 

Gummerus,  Yicrm^nGT^govixis.  Michael  Agricola,  der  Reformator  Finn- 
lands;  Sein  Leben  und  Sein  Werk.  Helsinki:  N.  pub.,  1941. 

Hagtvet,  Bernt,  and  Erik  Rudeng.  ''Scandinavia:  Achievements, 
Dilemmas,  Challenges,"  Daedalus,  113,  No.  2,  Spring  1984, 
227-56. 

Hakovirta,  Harto.  "Mauno  Koivisto's  Presidency  and  the  Ques- 
tion of  Changes  in  Finland's  Foreign  Policy,"  Osterreichische  Zeit- 
schrift  fiir  Aussenpolitik  [Vienna],  23,  No.  2,  1983,  95-104. 

Hamalainen,  Pekka  Kalevi.  In  Time  of  Storm:  Revolution,  Civil  War, 
and  the  Ethnolinguistic  Issue  in  Finland.  Albany:  State  University 
of  New  York  Press,  1979. 

Hannula,  Joose  Olavi.  Finland's  War  of  Independence.  London:  Faber 
and  Faber,  1939. 

Harmaja,  Leo.  Effects  of  the  War  on  Economic  and  Social  Life  in  Fin- 
land. (Economic  and  Social  History  of  the  World  War  Series.) 
New  Haven:  YzJe  University  Press,  1933. 

Heckscher,  Gunnar.  The  Welfare  State  and  Beyond:  Success  and  Problems 
in  Scandinavia.  (The  Nordic  Series,  11.)  Minneapolis:  University 
of  Minnesota  Press,  1984. 

Heikkila,  Hannu.  "Credits  of  Export-Import  Bank  to  Finland, 
1945-48,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala,  Swe- 
den], 30,  No.  3,  1982,  207-25. 

Hodgson,  John  H.  Communism  in  Finland:  A  History  and  Interpreta- 
tion. Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1967. 

Hoglund,  A.  William.  Finnish  Immigrants  in  America,  1880-1920. 
Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1960. 

Holm,  Nils  G.  "Recent  Research  into  Revivalist  Movements  in 
Finland,"  Scandinavian  Journal  of  History  [^toc]sho\m\y  11,  No.  4, 
1986,  317-33. 

Hoist,  Johanjor gen.  "The  Patterns  of  Nordic  Security,"  Daedalus, 

113,  No.  2,  Spring  1984,  195-225. 
Husu,  Erkki.  "The  Economic  Stabilization  Programmes  and  Their 

Political  Consequences  in  Finland,  1967-1970."  Pages  259-65 

in  Scandinavian  Political  Studies .  New  York:  Columbia  University 

Press,  1972. 


375 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Hyvarinen,  Risto.  "Urho  Kekkonen's  Eastern  Policy."  Pages 

49-62  in  Keijo  Korhonen  (ed.),  Urho  Kekkonen:  A  Statesman  for 

Peace.  London:  William  Heinemann,  1975. 
Ingold,  Tim.  The  Skolt  Lapps  Today.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 

University  Press,  1976. 
"Into  the  Saunas,"  Economist,  302,  No.  7490,  March  21,  1987, 

63-64. 

Jaantila,  Kirsti.  Political,  Economic,  and  Social  Writings  on  Postwar  Fin- 
land: A  Bibliographical  Survey.  Washington:  European  Affairs 
Division,  Library  of  Congress,  1952. 

Jacobs,  Travis  Beal.  America  and  the  Winter  War,  1939-1940.  New 
York:  Garland,  1981. 

Jagerskiold,  Stig.  Mannerheim:  Marshal  of  Finland.  (The  Nordic  Series, 
14.)  Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1986. 

Jakobson,  Max.  Finland  Survived:  An  Account  of  the  Finnish-Soviet  Winter 
War,  1939-1940.  Helsinki:  Otava,  1984. 

 Finnish  Neutrality:  A  Study  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy  Since  the 

Second  World  War.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 

 "On  the  Changing  Nature  of  Neutrality."  Pages  63-67 

in  Keijo  Korhonen  (ed.),  Urho  Kekkonen:  A  Statesman  for  Peace. 
London:  William  Heinemann,  1975. 

Jakobson,  Max,  and  Jukka  Tarkka.  "Finland's  Security  Policy  after 
the  Second  World  War,"  Revue  Internationale  d'Histoire  Militaire 
[Vaasa,  Finland],  No.  62,  1985,  241-66. 

Jensen,  Bartell  C.  The  Impact  of  Reparations  on  the  Post- War  Finnish 
Economy:  An  Input-Output  Study.  (Krannert  Graduate  School,  Pur- 
due University,  Monograph  Series,  No.  2.)  Homewood,  Illinois: 
Richard  D.  Irwin,  1966. 

Jutikkala,  Eino,  2ind  Kauko  Pirinen.  A  History  of  Finland.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1962. 

Juutilainen,  Antti.  "Operational  Decisions  by  the  Defence  Forces 
1941-1944,"  Revue  Internationale  d'Histoire  Militaire  [Vaasa,  Fin- 
land], No.  62,  1985,  153-75. 

Kalevala:  The  Land  of  the  Heroes.  (Trans.,  W.F.  Kirby)  New  York: 
Dutton,  1907.  Reprint.  London:  Athlone  Press,  1985. 

Karjalainen,  Ahti.  A  National  Economy  Based  on  Wood:  What  Finland 
Lives  On  and  How.  Helsinki:  N.  pub.,  1953. 

Kaukiainen,  Leena.  "From  Reluctancy  to  Activity.  Finland's  Way 
to  the  Nordic  Family  During  the  1920s  and  1930s,"  Scandinavian 
Journal  of  History  [Stockholm],  9,  No.  3,  1984,  201-19. 

Kenney,  Rowland.  The  Northern  Tangle:  Scandinavia  and  the  Postwar 
World.  London:  J.M.  Dent  and  Sons,  1946. 

Khrushchev,  Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  Remembers.  Boston:  Littie,  Brown, 
1970. 


376 


Bibliography 


Kirby,  D.G.  Finland  in  the  Twentieth  Century:  A  History  and  an  Inter- 
pretation. Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1979. 

Kirby,  D.G.  (ed.).  Finland  and  Russia,  1808-1920:  From  Autonomy 
to  Independence,  A  Selection  of  Documents.  New  York:  Harper  and 
Row,  1976. 

Kivisto,  Peter.  Immigrant  Socialists  in  the  United  States:  The  Case  of 
the  Finns  and  the  Left.  Rutherford,  New  Jersey:  Fairleigh  Dickin- 
son University  Press,  1984. 

Klinge,  Matti.  "Aspects  of  the  Nordic  Self,"  Daedalus,  113,  No.  2, 
Spring  1984,  257-77. 

 A  Brief  History  of  Finland.  Helsinki:  Otava,  1983. 

Knoellinger,  Carl  Erik.  Labor  in  Finland.  Cambridge:  Harvard 
University  Press,  1960. 

Koskimies,  Jaakko.  "Finland."  Pages  143-67  in  Albert  A.  Blum 
(ed.).  International  Handbook  of  Industrial  Relations:  Contemporary 
Developments  and  Research.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood 
Press,  1981. 

Krosby,  Hans  Peter.  Finland,  Germany,  and  the  Soviet  Union, 
1940-1941:  The  Petsamo  Dispute.  Madison:  University  of  Wis- 
consin Press,  1968. 

 "The  Communist  Power  Bid  in  Finland  in  1948,"  Politi- 
cal Science  Quarterly,  75,  No.  2,  June  1960,  229-43. 

Kuosa,  Tauno.  "Finland's  Participation  in  United  Nations  Peace- 
Keeping  Activity,"  Revue  Internationale  d'Histoire Militaire  [Vaasa, 
Finland],  No.  62,  1985,  297-307. 

Kuusinen,  Otto  Wilhelm.  Die  Revolution  in  Finnland.  Hamburg: 
Verlag  der  Kommunistischen  International,  1921. 

Laing,  William  James  Scott.  Finland:  Economic  and  Commercial  Con- 
ditions in  Finland.  London:  His  Majesty's  Stationery  Office,  for 
Board  of  Trade,  1949. 

Laporte,  Henri.  La  guerre  des  Rouges  et  des  Blancs:  le  premier  echec  des 
Rouges,  Russie-Finlande.  Paris:  Payot,  1919. 

Laqueur,  Walter.  "Europe:  The  Specter  of  Finlandization,"  Com- 
mentary, 64,  December  1977,  37-41. 

League  of  Nations.  "The  Aaland  Islands  Question,"  Official  Jour- 
nal [London],  Special  Supplement  No.  1,  August  1920,  1-67. 

Liberies,  Adina  Weiss.  "The  Jewish  Community  of  Finland." 
Pages  135-51  in  Daniel  Judah  Elazar,  Adina  Weiss  Liberies, 
and  Simcha  Werner  (eds.).  The  Jewish  Communities  of  Scandina- 
via: Sweden,  Denmark,  Norway,  and  Finland.  Lanham,  Maryland: 
University  Press  of  America,  1984. 

Lindhardt,  P.G.  Den  Nordiska  Kirkes  Historic.  Copenhagen:  NYT 
Nordisk  Forlag  Arnold  Busck,  1945. 


377 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Luebbert,  Gregory  M.  Comparative  Democracy:  Policymaking  and 
Governing  Coalitions  in  Europe  and  Israel.  New  York:  Columbia 
University  Press,  1986. 

Lundin,  C.  Leonard.  ''Finland."  Pages  355-457  in  Edward  C. 
Thaden  (ed.),  Russification  in  the  Baltic  Provinces  and  Finland, 
1855-1914.  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1981. 

 Finland  in  the  Second  World  War.  Bloomington:  Indiana 

University  Press,  1957. 

Luntinen,  C.  "The  Aland  Question  During  the  Last  Years  of  the 
Russian  Empire,"  Slavonic  and  East  European  Review,  54,  No.  4, 
October  1976,  557-71. 

Luntinen,  Pertti.  F.A.  Seyn:  A  Political  Biography  of  a  Tsarist  Imperi- 
alist as  Administrator  of  Finland.  (Studia  Historica.)  Helsinki:  SHS, 
1985. 

Makela,  Jaakko.  "The  Radical  Left  and  the  Communist  Party  in 
Finnish  Politics."  Pages  153-86  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael 
Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics. 
Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  University  of 
Turku,  1984. 

Mannerheim,  Gustav.  The  Memoirs  of  Marshal  Mannerheim.  New 
York:  E.P.  Dutton,  1954. 

Manninen,  Ohto.  "Political  Expedients  for  Security  During  the 
'Interim  Peace'  and  at  the  Start  of  the  Continuation  War 
(1940-1941),"  Revue  Internationale  d'Histoire Militaire  [Vaasa,  Fin- 
land], No.  62,  1985,  97-122. 

Maude,  George.  The  Finnish  Dilemma:  Neutrality  in  the  Shadow  of 
Power.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  for  the  Royal  Insti- 
tute of  Internationsd  Affairs,  1976. 

Mazour,  Anatole  G.  Finland  between  East  and  West.  Princeton:  D. 
Van  Nostrand,  1956. 

Mead,  William  Richard.  Farming  in  Finland.  London:  Athlone  Press, 
1953. 

 Finland.  (Nations  of  the  Modern  World  Series.)  London: 

Ernest  Benn,  1968. 
 An  Historical  Geography  of  Scandinavia.  London:  Academic 

Press,  1981. 

 "Norden:  Destiny  and  Fortune,"  Daedalus,  113,  No.  1, 

Winter  1984,  1-27. 
Meissner,  Boris.  "The  Baltic  Question  in  World  Politics."  Pages 

139-48  in  V.  Stanley  Vardys  and  Romuald  J.  Misiunas  (eds.). 

The  Baltic  States  in  Peace  and  War,  1917-1945.  University  Park: 

Pennsylvania  State  University  Press,  1978. 
Mylly,  Juhani.  "The  Agrarian/Center  Party  in  Finnish  Politics." 

Pages  98-120  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.). 


378 


Bibliography 


Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Fin- 
land: Department  of  Political  History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Mylly,  Juhani,  and  R.  Michael  Berry.  Political  Parties  in  Finland: 
Essays  in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Finland:  Department  of 
Political  History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Nevakivi,  Jukka.  The  Appeal  That  Was  Never  Made:  The  Allies,  Scan- 
dinavia, and  the  Finnish  Winter  War,  1939-1940.  London:  C.  Hurst, 
1976. 

Nissen,  Henrik  S.  Scandinavia  During  the  Second  World  War.  (The 
Nordic  Series,  9.)  Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press, 
1983. 

Nordeuropa  in  der  Internationalen  Klassenauseinandersetzung. 
Autorenkollektiv  unter  Leitung  von  Herbert  Joachimi.  East  Berlin:  Staats- 
verlag  der  Deutschen  Demokratischen  Republik,  1982. 

Nordstrom,  Byron  J.  (ed.).  Dictionary  of  Scandinavian  History.  West- 
port,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Nousiainen,  Jacikko.  The  Finnish  Political  System.  Cambridge:  Har- 
vard University  Press,  1971. 

0rvik,  Karen  Erickson.  "Finnish  Foreign  Policy  and  the  Kekkonen 
Legacy,"  Survey  [London],  27,  No.  3,  Autumn- Winter  1983, 
152-64. 

Paasikivi,  Juho  Kusti.  y.  A".  Paasikivis  dagbocker,  1944-1956.  Hel- 
sinki: Soderstrom,  1985. 

 Meine  Moskauer  Mission,  1939-41.  Hamburg:  Holsten, 

1966. 

Paasivirta,  Juhani.  Finland  and  Europe.  International  Crises  in  the  Period 
of  Autonomy,  1808-1914.  (The  Nordic  Series,  7.)  Minneapolis: 
University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1981. 

Pajunen,  Aimo.  "Finland's  Security  Policy  in  the  1970s:  Back- 
ground and  Perspectives."  Pages  39-60  in  Johan  Jorgen  Hoist 
(ed.).  Five  Roads  to  Nordic  Security.  Oslo:  Universitetsforlaget,  1973. 

Paxton,  John(ed.).  The  Statesman's  Yearbook  1986-1987.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1986. 

Pentikainen,  Juha,  et  al.  Cultural  Pluralism  and  the  Position  of  Minorities 
in  Finland.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish  National  Commission  for 
UNESCO,  1981. 

Pipping,  Hugo  E.  Finlands  Ndringsliv  Efter  Andra  Vdrldskriget.  Hel- 
sinki: Soderstrom,  1954. 

Piatt,  Raye  R.  (ed.).  Finland  and  Its  Geography.  (American  Geo- 
graphical Society  Handbook  Series.)  New  York:  Duell,  Sloan, 
and  Pearce,  1955. 

Polvinen,  Tuomo.  Between  East  and  West:  Finland  in  International 
Politics,  1944-1947.  Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press, 
1986. 


379 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


 "The  Great  Powers  and  Finland  1941-1944."  Revue  Inter- 
nationale d'Histoire  Militaire  [Vaasa,  Finland],  No.  62,  1985, 
133-52. 

Puntila,  L.A.  The  Political  History  of  Finland,  1809-1966.  Helsinki: 
Otava,  1975. 

Raikkonen,  Erkki.  Svinhufvud,  The  Builder  of  Finland:  An  Adventure 
in  Statecraft.  London:  Alan  Wilmer,  1938. 

Rantala,  Onni.  "Changing  Features  in  the  Finnish  Party  System 
from  the  1960s  to  the  Present."  Pages  35-57  in  Juhani  Mylly, 
and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays 
in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political 
History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Rintala,  Marvin.  Four  Finns:  Political  Profiles.  Berkeley:  University 
of  Cgdifornia  Press,  1969. 

 Three  Generations:  The  Extreme  Right  Wing  in  Finland  (Rus- 
sian and  East  European  Series,  22.).  Bloomington:  Indiana 
University  Press,  1962. 

Runeberg,  Carl  Michael.  Finlands  Historia.  Porvoo,  Finland:  Soder- 
strom,  1971. 

Sandlund,  Tom.  Social  Structure  and  Social  Mobility.  A  Study  of  the  Swed- 
ish Population  in  Finland,  1950-1975.  (Ethnicity  and  Mobility: 
Research  Reports,  10.)  Turku,  Finland:  Abo  Akademi,  1982. 

Selen,  Kari.  "The  Main  Lines  of  Finnish  Security  Policy  Between 
the  World  Wars,"  Revue  Internationale  d'Histoire Militaire  [Vaasa, 
Finland],  No.  62,  1985,  15-37. 

Sentzke,  Geert.  Die  Kirche  Finnlands.  Gottingen:  Vandenhoeck  und 
Ruprecht,  1963. 

Seton- Watson,  Hugh.  The  Russian  Empire,  1801-1917.  Oxford: 
Clarendon  Press,  1967. 

Shepherd,  William  R.  Historical  Atlas .  (7  th  ed.)  New  York:  Henry 
Holt,  1929. 

Singleton,  Fred.  "Finland  Between  East  and  West,"  World  Today 

[London],  34,  No.  8,  August  1978,  321-32. 
 "Finland's  Functioning  "Finlandisation","  World  Today 

[London],  41,  No.  11,  November  1985,  208-10. 
 "The  Myth  of  "Finlandisation","  International  Affairs 

[London],  57,  No.  2,  Spring  1981,  270-85. 
Skully,  Michael  T.  "Finland  and  the  EEC:  A  Historical  Economic 

Outline  of  Their  Trade  Relations,"  yowmfl/  of  Baltic  Studies,  7, 

No.  3,  Fall  1976,  220-30. 
Smith,  C.Jay.  Finland  and  the  Russian  Revolution,  1917-1922.  Athens: 

University  of  Georgia  Press,  1958. 
Soderhjelm,  Henning.  The  Red  Insurrection  in  Finland  in  1918:  A  Study 

Based  on  Documentary  Evidence.  London:  Harrison  and  Sons,  1919. 


380 


Bibliography 


Soikkanen,  Timo.  "Changing  Bourgeois  Parties  in  a  Changing 
Finnish  Society."  Pages  58-97  injuhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael 
Berry  (eds.),  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics. 
Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  University  of 
Turku,  1984. 

 "The  Development  of  Political  Parties:  An  Introduction 

and  Overview."  Pages  28-34  injuhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael 
Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics. 
Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  University  of 
Turku,  1984. 

Somme,  Axel  (ed.).  A  Geography  of  Norden;  Denmark,  Finland,  Iceland, 
Norway,  and  Sweden.  Bergen:  S.W.  Eides,  1968. 

Sundback,  Susan.  "Finland."  Pages  66-110  in  Goran  Gustafsson 
(ed.),  Religids  Fordndring  i  Norden,  1930-1980.  Malmo,  Sweden: 
Liber,  1985. 

Sykes,  John.  Direction  North:  A  View  of  Finland.  Philadelphia:  Chilton, 
1967. 

Tanner,  Vaino.  The  Winter  War:  Finland  Against  Russia,  1939-1940. 
Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1957. 

Thaden,  Edward  C.  "Administrative  Russification  in  Finland, 
1881-1914."  Pages  76-88  in  Edward  C.  Thaden  (ed.),  Russifi- 
cation in  the  Baltic  Provinces  and  Finland,  1855-1914.  Princeton: 
Princeton  University  Press,  1981. 

Tornudd,  Klaus.  The  Electoral  System  of  Finland.  London:  Hugh 
Evelyn,  1968. 

Tuominen,  \J\ino.  J.K.  Paasikivi:  A  Pictorial  Biography.  Helsinki: 
Otava,  1971. 

Turner,  Barry,  and  Gunilla  Nordquist.  The  Other  European  Com- 
munity: Integration  and  Co-operation  in  Nordic  Europe.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1982. 

Ueberschar,  Gerd  R.  Hitler  und  Finnland,  1939-1941:  Die  Deutsch- 
Finnischen  Beziehungen  Wdhrenddes  Hitler-Stalin-Paktes.  Wiesbaden: 
Steiner,  1979. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Finland:  Post  Report.  Washing- 
ton: December  1986. 

Uppslagsverket  Finland.  (3  vols.)  Helsinki:  Holger  Schildts  Forlag, 
1982-85. 

Upton,  Anthony  F.  The  Communist  Parties  of  Scandinavia  and  Finland. 

London:  Weidenfeld  and  Nicolson,  1973. 

 Finland,  1939-1940.  London:  Davis-Poynter,  1974. 

 Finland  in  Crisis,  1940-1941:  A  Study  in  Small-Power  Politics. 

London:  Faber  and  Faber,  1964. 
 The  Finnish  Revolution,  1917-1918.  (The  Nordic  Series,  3.) 

Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1985. 


381 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


''Urho  Kaleva  Kekkonen,"  Der  Spiegel  [Hamburg],  40,  No.  37, 

September  8,  1986,  184. 
Valkonen,  Marjaana.  The  Central  Organization  of  Finnish  Trade  Unions, 

1907-82.  Helsinki:  Central  Organization  of  Finnish  Trade 

Unions,  1985. 

Valros,  Fredrik.  Finland,  1946-1952.  Helsinki:  N.  pub.,  1953. 
Vayrynen,  Raimo.  "Finland's  Role  in  Western  Policy  Since  the 

Second  World  War,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  12,  No.  2, 

June  1977,  87-108. 
Vilkuna,  Tuomas  (ed.).  Finnlands  Weg  zur  Neutralitdt:  Reden  und 

Ansprachen  von  Urho  Kekkonen  Prdsident  der  Republik  Finnland.  Diis- 

seldorf:  Econ  Verlag,  1975. 
 .  Neutrality:  The  Finnish  Position.  Speeches  by  Dr.  Urho  Kekkonen 

President  of  Finland.  London:  William  Heinemann,  1973. 
Vloyantes,  John  P.  Silk  Glove  Hegemony:  Finnish-Soviet  Relations, 

1944-1974;  A  Case  Study  of  the  Theory  of  the  Soft  Sphere  of  Influence. 

Kent,  Ohio:  The  Kent  State  University  Press,  1975. 
Vuorela,  Toivo.  The  Finno-Ugric  Peoples.  (Indiana  University  Pub- 
lications, Uralic  and  Altaic  Series,  39.)  Bloomington:  Indiana 

University  Press,  1964. 
Vuorenmaa,  Anssi.  "Defensive  Strategy  and  Basic  Operational 

Decisions  in  the  Finland- Soviet  Winter  War  1939-1940,"  Revue 

Internationale  d'Histoire Militaire  [Vasisa.,  Finland],  No.  62,  1985, 

74-96. 

 "Finland's  Defence  Forces:  The  Years  of  Construction 

1918-1939,"  Revue  Internationale  d'Histoire  Militaire  [Vaasa,  Fin- 
land], No.  62,  1985,  39-54. 

Wahlback,  Krister.  Fran  Mannerheim  till  Kekkonen;  Huvudlinjer  i  Fin- 
IdndskPolitik  1917-1967.  Stockholm:  Aldus  and  Bonniers,  1967. 

Warner,  Oliver.  Marshal  Mannerheim  and  the  Finns.  London:  Weiden- 
feld  and'Nicolson,  1967. 

 .  The  Sea  and  the  Sword:  The  Baltic,  1630-1945.  New  York: 

William  Morrow,  1965. 

Wendt,  Frantz.  The  Nordic  Council  and  Co-operation  in  Scandinavia. 
Copenhagen:  Munksgaard,  1959. 

Wuorinen,  John  Henry.  "Finland  and  the  USSR— 1945-1961," 
Journal  of  International  Affairs,  16,  No.  1,  1962,  38-46. 

 .  Finland  and  World  War  II,  1939-1944.  Westport,  Connecti- 
cut: Greenwood  Press,  1983. 

 A  History  of  Finland.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press, 

for  the  American-Scandinavian  Foundation,  1965. 

 .  Nationalism  in  Modern  Finland.  New  York:  Columbia  Uni- 
versity Press,  1931. 


382 


Bibliography 


Zetterberg,  Hans  L.  "The  Rational  Humanitarians,"  Daedalus, 
113,  No.  1,  Winter  1984,  75-92. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Facts  on  File,  January-December 
1970,  dind  Keesing's  Contemporary  Archives  [London],  January  1970- 
December  1988.) 

Chapter  2 

Aaltonen,  Tenho,  et  al.  Kultaiset  Korvarenkaat.  Helsinki:  Otava,  1986. 
Aarnio,  Aulis.  "Family  Law  and  the  Law  of  Succession."  Pages 

164-81  in  Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.),  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.) 

Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 
Ahponen,  Pirkkoliisa,  and  Marja  Jarvela.  "The  Changing  Way 

of  Life  as  a  Challenge  to  Workers  and  the  Worker  Community. ' ' 

Pages  68-86  in  J. P.  Roos  and  Andrzej  Sicinski  (eds.),  Ways  of 

Life  in  Finland  and  Poland:  Comparative  Studies  on  Urban  Populations. 

Aldershot,  Hampshire,  United  Kingdom:  Avebury,  1987. 
 "From  Country  to  Town  and  from  Small  Farm  to  Factory: 

Study  on  Changes  in  the  Way  of  Life  of  Factory  Workers." 

Pages  57-73  in  Jukka  Oksa  (ed.).  Papers  on  Social  Change  in  North 

Karelia.  Joensuu,  Finland:  Karelian  Institute,  University  of 

Joensuu,  1985. 

Alanen,  Antti,  Raimo  Blom,  and  Liisa  Rantalaiho.  The  Summary 
of  Theoretical  Critique  and  Pretest  Results  in  Finland:  Comparative  Project 
on  Class  Structure  and  Class  Consciousness.  (Research  Reports,  45.) 
Tampere,  Finland:  Department  of  Sociology  and  Social  Psychol- 
ogy, University  of  Tampere,  1981. 

Alapuro,  Risto.  Finland:  An  Interface  Periphery.  (Research  Reports, 
25.)  Helsinki:  Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology, 
University  of  Helsinki,  1980. 

Alestalo,  Jouko.  "On  the  Concentration  of  Population  in  Finland, ' ' 
Nordia  [Oulu,  Finland],  15,  No.  1,  1981,  39-49. 

 "The  Concentration  of  Population  in  Finland  Between 

1880  and  1980,"  Fennia  [Helsinki],  161,  No.  2,  1983,  263-88. 

Alestalo,  Matti.  Structural  Change,  Classes,  and  the  State:  Finland  in 
an  Historical  and  Comparative  Perspective.  (Research  Reports,  33.) 
Helsinki:  Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology,  Univer- 
sity of  Helsinki,  1986. 

Alestalo,  Matti,  Peter  Flora,  and  Hannu  Uusitalo.  "Structure  and 
Politics  in  the  Making  of  the  Welfare  State:  Finland  in  Com- 
parative Perspective."  Pages  188-210  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al. 


383 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

(eds.),  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt. 
Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 
Alestalo,  Matti,  and  Hannu  Uusitalo.  ''Finland."  Pages  197-292 
in  Peter  Flora  (ed.),  Growth  to  Limits:  The  Western  European  Wel- 
fare States  Since  World  War  II,  Vol.  1.  West  Berlin:  Walter  de 
Gruyter,  1986. 

 Prestige  and  Stratification:  A  Comparative  Study  on  Occupational 

Prestige  and  Its  Determinants.  (Commentationes  Scientiarum  Social- 
ium  Series,  15.)  Helsinki:  Societas  Scientiarum  Fennica,  1980. 

Allardt,  Erik.  The  American  Impact  on  Science  and  Higher  Education  in 
Finland.  (Working  Papers  Series,  31.)  Helsinki:  Department  of 
Sociology,  University  of  Helsinki,  1984. 

 "The  Civic  Conception  of  the  Welfare  State  in  Scandina- 
via." Pages  107-25  in  Richard  Rose  and  Rei  Shiratori  (eds.), 
The  Welfare  State  East  and  West.  New  York:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1986. 

 .  "Ethnic  Minorities."  Pages  627-49  in  Erik  Allardt,  et  al. 

(eds.),  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  DetDanske  Selskab,  1981. 

 .  Finland's  Swedish  Speaking  Minority.  (Research  Reports,  17.) 

Helsinki:  Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology,  Univer- 
sity of  Helsinki,  1977. 

 "Representative  Government  in  a  Bureaucratic  Age," 

Daedalus,  113,  No.  1,  Winter  1984,  169-97. 

 Samhdllet  Finland:  Omvandlingar  och  traditioner.  (Finland  i  dag 

Series.)  Hanko,  Finland:  Holger  Schildt  Forlag,  1985. 

 .  Welfare  Production,  Welfare  Consumption,  and  State  Interven- 

tionism  in  the  Nordic  Countries.  (Working  Papers  Series,  32.)  Hel- 
sinki: Department  of  Sociology,  University  of  Helsinki,  1984. 

Allardt,  Erik,  et  al.  (eds.).  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det 
Danske  Selskab,  1981. 

Allardt,  Erik,  and  Karl  Johan  Miemois.  "A  Minority  in  Both 
Center  and  Periphery:  An  Account  of  the  Swedish- Speaking 
Finns,"  European  Journal  of  Political  Research  [Amsterdam],  10, 
No.  3,  September  1982,  265-92. 

 .  Roots  Both  in  the  Center  and  the  Periphery:  The  Swedish  Speak- 
ing Population  in  Finland.  (Research  Reports,  24.)  Helsinki: 
Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology,  University  of  Hel- 
sinki, 1979. 

 .  The  Swedish  Speaking  Minority  in  Finland.  (2d  rev.  ed.) 

(Research  Reports,  24.)  Helsinki:  Research  Group  for  Compara- 
tive Sociology,  University  of  Helsinki,  1981. 

Allardt,  Erik,  and  Christian  Starck.  Sprdkgrdnser  och  samhdllsstruktur: 
Finlandssvenskarna  i  ett  jdmforande  perspektiv.  Stockholm:  Almqvist 
och  Wiksell  Forlag,  1981. 


384 


Bibliography 


Andersen,  Bent  Rold.  "Rationality  and  Irrationality  of  the  Nordic 
Welfare  State,"  Daedalus,  113,  No.  1,  Winter  1984,  109-39. 

Andorka,  Rudolf,  Istvan  Harcsa,  and  liris  Niemi.  Use  of  Time  in 
Hungary  and  in  Finland.  (Studies,  101.)  Helsinki:  Central  Statistical 
Office  of  Finland,  1983. 

Antikainen,  Ari.  "The  Regional  Impact  of  Universities  in  Fin- 
land," Higher  Education  [Amsterdam],  10,  No.  4,  July  1981, 
437-48. 

Arnstberg,  Karl-Olav.  Zigenarens  Vdg:  Essd  om  en  minoritet.  Stock- 
holm: L.T.  Solna,  Seelig,  1974. 

Aromaa,  Kauko,  Ilkka  Cantell,  and  Risto  Jaakkola.  Cohabitation 
in  Finland  in  the  1970s.  Helsinki:  Research  Institute  of  Legal 
Policy,  1983. 

Auvinen,  Riitta.  "Population  Development  in  Finland:  A  Chal- 
lenge for  Planning?"  Pages  5-8  in  Jarl  Lindgren  (ed.).  Yearbook 
of  Population  Research  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Population  Research 
Institute,  1987. 

Backman,  Guy,  and  Gunborg Jakobsson.  Nordisk  Hdlsopolitik.  (Med- 
delanden  fran  Stiftelsens  for  Abo  Akademi  Forskningsinstitut, 
74.)  Turku,  Finland:  Abo  Akademi,  1982. 

Bagerstam,  Erik.  Finlands  Svenskar—ett  livskraftigt  folk  i  Nor  den.  Stock- 
holm: Sveriges  Radio  Forlag,  1987. 

Bondestam,  Ingegerd,  et  cJ.  Kvinnoliv J)d  Aland.  Mariehamn,  Fin- 
land: Jamstalldhetskommitten  pa  Aland,  1981. 

Bruun,  Kettil.  Alkohol  i  Norden.  Stockholm:  Aldus-Bonniers,  1973. 

Christie,  Nils,  and  Kettil  Bruun.  Den  Code  Fiende:  Narkotikapolitikk 
i  Norden.  Oslo:  Universitetsforlaget,  1985. 

Dahl,  Hans  F.  "Those  Equal  Folk,"  Daedalus,  113,  No.  1,  Winter 
1984,  93-107. 

Donner,  Jorg.  Nya  Boken  om  Vdrt  Land.  Helsinki:  Wahlstrom  och 
Widstrand,  1967. 

Erikson,  Robert,  et  al.  (eds.).  Tlie  Scandinavian  Model:  Welfare  States 
and  Welfare  Research.  (Comparative  Public  Policy  Analysis  Series.) 
Armonk,  New  York:  M.E.  Sharpe,  1987. 

Erikson,  Robert,  and  Seppo  Pontinen.  "Social  Mobility  in  Fin- 
land and  Sweden:  A  Comparison  of  Men  and  Women."  Pages 
138-62  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  cd.  (eds.).  Small  States  in  Comparative 
Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian  University 
Press,  1985. 

Eskola,  Katarina,  and  Elina  Haavio-Mannila.  The  Role  of  Women 
in  Creative  Cultural  Work.  (Research  Reports,  221.)  Helsinki: 
Department  of  Sociology,  University  of  Helsinki,  1984. 

Eskola,  Katarina,  Matti  Kortteinen,  and  J.  P.  Roos.  The  Way  of  Life 
and  Cultural  Activities  in  the  Finnish  Family.  (Research  Reports,  4.) 


385 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Joensuu,  Finland:  Academy  of  Finland,  University  of  Joensuu, 
1978. 

Finland.  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland.  Air  Quality  Statistics: 

Methods  and  Principles,  Finland,  Hungary,  Sweden.  (Studies,  102.) 

Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1983. 
 .  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland.  Statistical  Yearbook  of 

Finland,  1987.  Helsinki:  1987. 
 .  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland.  Women  and  Men  at 

Work.  (Studies,  116.)  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre, 

1985. 

 .  Ministry  of  Education.  Educational  Development  in  Finland, 

1984-86.  (Reference  Publications,  13.)  Helsinki:  Yliopistopaino, 
1986. 

 .  Ministry  of  Education.  Higher  Education  in  Finland:  Guide 

for  Foreign  Students,  1985.  Helsinki:  Yliopistopaino,  1985. 

 .  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  The  Future  Develop- 
ment of  Finnish  Social  Policy.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing 
Centre,  1984. 

 Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  Health  Care  in  Fin- 
land. Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1986. 

 Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  Health  Policy  Report 

by  the  Government  to  Parliament,  March  25,  1985.  Helsinki:  1985. 

 .  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  The  National  Working- 
Environment  Program.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre, 
1985. 

Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  Social  Insurance  in 
Finland.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1986. 

 .  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  Social  Policy  in  Fin- 
land Helsinki:  1984. 

 Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Headth.  Social  Welfare  in  Fin- 
land. Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1986. 

 Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health.  Working  Environ- 
ment in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1987. 

 .  Ministry  of  the  Environment.  Environmental  Protection 

and  Nature  Conservation  Department.  Environmental  Policies  in 
Finland.  (Serial  D,  19.)  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre, 
1986. 

 National  Bo2ird  of  Survey.  The  Atlas  of  Finland:  Living  Con- 
ditions and  Social  Policy.  (Folio  341-44.)  Helsinki:  1986. 

 .  National  Board  of  Survey.  The  Atlas  of  Finland:  Population. 

(Folio  210.)  Helsinki:  1981. 

 National  Board  of  Survey.  The  Atlas  of  Finland:  Public 

Administration.  (Folio  311.)  Helsinki:  1978. 


386 


Bibliography 

 .  Statsradet.  Statsrddets  Redogdrelse  till  Riksdagen  om  Miljdvdrden. 

Helsinki:  Valtion  Painatuskeskus,  1984. 
^'Finland."  Page  352  in  Felician  A.  Foy  (O.F.M.)  and  Rose  M. 

Avato  (eds.),  1984  Catholic  Almanac.  Huntington,  Indiana:  Our 

Sunday  Visitor,  1984. 
"Finland."  Pages  299-340  in  Brian  Holmes  (ed.),  International 

Handbook  of  Educational  Systems.  Chichester,  Sussex,  United  King- 
dom: John  Wiley  and  Sons,  1983. 
Finnas,  Fjalar.  "The  Fertility  Trends  among  Married  Finnish 

Women  Born  1932-58."  Pages  26-36  in  Jarl  Lindgren  (ed.), 

Yearbook  of  Population  Research  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Population 

Research  Institute,  1988. 
 Den finlandssvenska  befolkningsutvecklingen,  1950-80.  Helsinki: 

Svenska  Litteratursallskapet  i  Finland,  1986. 
FjeUstrom,  Phebe.  Samemas  samhdlle  i  tradition  och  nutid.  Stockholm: 

P. A.  Norstedt  och  Soners  Forlag,  1985. 
Fransholm,  Ruben.  Byaliv.  Vaasa,  Finland:  Ruben  Fransholm, 

1980. 

Gould,  Raija.  "Unemployment  and  Disability:  Some  Sociologi- 
cal Aspects  of  Withdrawal  from  the  Labor  Market,"  International 
Social  Security  Review  [Geneva],  38,  No.  1,  January  1985,  20-37. 

Gronfors,  Martti.  Ethnic  Minorities  and  Deviance:  The  Relationship 
Between  Finnish  Gypsies  and  the  Police.  (Sociology  of  Law  Series,  1 .) 
Helsinki:  University  of  Helsinki,  1979. 

Gronick,  Ritva.  "The  Social  and  Political  Role  of  Women  in  Fin- 
land." Pages  52-64  in  Clive  Archer  and  Stephen  Maxwell  (eds.). 
The  Nordic  Model:  Studies  in  Public  Policy  Innovation.  Westmead, 
Farnborough,  Hampshire,  United  Kingdom:  Gower,  1980. 

Haapala,  Pertti.  "How  Was  the  Working  Class  Formed?  The  Case 
of  Finland,  1850-1920,"  Scandinavian  Journal  of  History  [Stock- 
holm], 12,  No.  3,  1987,  179-97. 

Haavio-Mannila,  Elina.  "The  Position  of  Women."  Pages  555-88 
in  Erik  Allardt  et  al.  (eds.),  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det 
Danske  Selskab,  1981. 

Haavio-Mannila,  Elina,  et  al.  (eds.).  Unfinished  Democracy:  Women 
in  Nordic  Politics.  Oxford:  Pergamon  Press,  1985. 

Haavio-Mannila,  Elina,  and  Kyllikki  Kari.  Demographic  Background 
of  Changes  in  the  Life  Patterns  of  Families  in  the  Nordic  Countries.  (Work- 
ing Papers,  11.)  Helsinki:  Department  of  Sociology,  University 
of  Helsinki,  1979. 

Haavio-Mannila,  Elina,  Rita  Liljestrom,  and  Magdalena  Soko- 
lowska.  "The  State,  the  Family,  and  the  Position  of  Women  in 
the  Nordic  Countries  and  Poland."  Pages  69-90  in  Risto  Alapuro 


387 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

et  al.  (eds.),  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik 
Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 
Hakkila,  Matti.  "On  the  Drift  Away  from  the  Countryside  in 
Kainuu,  Finland."  Pages  139-57  in  Eino  Siuruainen  (ed.),  Ten 
Years  of  Work  at  Research  Institute  of  Northern  Finland.  Oulu,  Fin- 
land: Research  Institute  of  Northern  Finland,  University  of  Oulu, 
1985. 

Hall,  Wendy.  The  Finns  and  Their  Country.  London:  Max  Parrish, 
1967. 

Halla,  Klaus,  and  Pirkko  Karjalainen.  The  Conditions  of  Special 
Groups.  (Official  Statistics  of  Finland,  Special  Social  Studies,  61.) 
Helsinki:  Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health,  1980. 

Hamalainen,  Pekka  Kalevi.  In  Time  of  Storm:  Revolution,  Civil  War, 
and  the  Ethno linguistic  Issue  in  Finland.  Albany:  State  University 
of  New  York  Press,  1979. 

Haven,  Heikki,  and  Risto  Syvanpera.  Participation  in  Adult  Educa- 
tion. (Studies,  92.)  Helsinki:  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Fin- 
land, 1984. 

Hayrynen,  Yrjo-Paavo.  "The  Finnish  University  from  1965  to 
1985:  Expansion  as  Reflected  in  the  Subsequent  Life  Patterns 
of  1965  University  Entrants,"  European  Journal  of  Education 
[Abingdon,  Oxfordshire,  United  Kingdom],  21,  No.  1,  1986, 
25-42. 

Heckscher,  Gunnar.  The  Welfare  State  and  Beyond:  Success  and  Problems 
in  Scandinavia.  (The  Nordic  Series,  11.)  Minneapolis:  University 
of  Minnesota  Press,  1984. 

Heino,  Harri.  "Religion  in  Finland  and  the  Role  of  Women  in 
the  Church,"  Scandinavian  Review,  75,  No.  1,  Spring  1987,  47-53. 

Helle,  Reijo.  "Some  Recent  Developments  in  Retailing  by  Mobile 
Shops,"  Nordia  [Oulu,  Finland],  15,  No.  1,  1981,  21-23. 

Hemminki,  Elina.  "Obstetric  Practice  in  Finland,  1950-80: 
Changes  in  Technology  and  Its  Relations  to  Health,"  Medical 
Care,  21,  No.  12,  December  1983,  1131-43. 

Hemminki,  Kari,  et  al.  "Spontaneous  Abortions  in  an  Industri- 
alized Community  in  Finland, ' '  American  Journal  of  Public  Health, 
73,  No.  1,  January  1983,  32-37. 

Hjerppe,  Reino  T.  "Measurement  of  the  Role  of  the  Public  Sec- 
tor in  the  Finnish  Economy,"  Review  of  Income  and  Wealth,  28, 
No.  4,  December  1982,  449-66. 

Hollo,  Erkki  J.  "Environmental  Law."  Pages  210-20  in  Jaakko 
Uotila(ed.),  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish 
Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

Humphreys,  Patrick.  The  Yearbook  of  the  Finnish  Economy.  Vantaa, 
Finland:  Tietosanoma,  1988. 


388 


Bibliography 


Ingold,  Tim.  The  Skolt  Lapps  Today.  Cambridge:  Cambridge 
University  Press,  1976. 

Irwin,  John  L.  The  Finns  and  the  Lapps:  How  They  Live  and  Work. 
New  York:  Praeger,  1973. 

Jacobsen,  Kim  Morch.  "Adult  Education  in  the  Nordic  Coun- 
tries." Pages  465-94  in  Erik  Allardt  et  al.  (eds.),  Nordic  Democracy. 
Copenhagen:  Det  Danske  Selskab,  1981. 

Jansson,  Jan-Magnus.  "Language  Legislation."  Pages  77-89  in 
Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki: 
Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

Jarvela-Hartikainen,  Marja,  Pirkkoliisa  Ahponen,  and  Matti 
Taponen.  The  Frame  of  Ways  of  Life  in  Finland:  An  Overview. 
(Research  Reports.)  Helsinki:  Department  of  Social  Policy, 
University  of  Helsinki,  1982. 

Kaanisto,  Vaino.  Geographic  Differentials  in  Infant  Mortality  in  Fin- 
land in  1871-1983.  (Studies,  126.)  Helsinki:  Central  Statistical 
Office  of  Finland,  1986. 

Kandolin,  Irja,  and  Hannu  Uusitalo.  Scandinavian  Men  and  Women: 
A  Welfare  Comparison.  (Research  Reports,  28.)  Helsinki:  Research 
Group  for  Comparative  Sociology,  University  of  Helsinki,  1980. 

Kerkela,  Heikki.  Development  Features  of  the  Finnish  Class  and  Stratum 
Structure  in  the  Twentieth  Century.  (Research  Reports,  46.)  Tam- 
pere, Finland:  Department  of  Sociology  and  Social  Psychology, 
University  of  Tampere,  1981. 

Kiiski,  Salme,  and  Anna-Leena  Wickstrand.  Pages  33-42  in  Sirkku 
Kuusava  (ed.).  Vocation:  Woman.  Helsinki:  The  National  Council 
of  Women  of  Finland,  1988. 

Klinge,  Matti.  University  of  Helsinki:  A  Short  History.  Helsinki: 
University  of  Helsinki,  1983. 

Kopteff,  PekkaJ.  "A  Survey  of  the  Abuse  of  Medicines  and  Illicit 
Drugs  by  Finnish  Students,"  International  Journal  of  the  Addictions, 
15,  No.  2,  February  1980,  269-75. 

Kortteinen,  Matti.  "Ways  of  Life  in  a  Finnish  Suburb."  Pages 
111-25  in  J. P.  Roos  and  Andrzej  Sicinski  (eds.).  Ways  of  Life 
in  Finland  and  Poland:  Comparative  Studies  on  Urban  Populations. 
Aldershot,  Hampshire,  United  Kingdom:  Avebury,  1987. 

Koskela,  Kaj,  and  Pekka  Puska.  "Community  Action  Against 
Cardiovascular  Disease  in  Finland,"  World  Health  Forum 
[Geneva],  8,  No.  1,  1987,  53-55. 

Koskiaho,  Briitta.  "Regional  Development,  the  Case  of  Finland," 
Pages  329-58  in  Antoni  Kuklinski,  Olli  Kultalahti,  and  Briitta 
Koskiaho  (eds.).  Regional  Dynamics  of  Socioeconomic  Change.  Tam- 
pere, Finland:  Finnpublishers,  1979. 


389 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Koskiaho,  Tapio.  Women  in  Local  Politics :  The  Case  of  Finland.  (Com- 
munications from  Institute  of  Municipal  Science  Series,  1 .)  Tam- 
pere, Finland:  University  of  Tampere,  1975. 

Kottke,  Thomas  E.,  et  al.  "A  Decline  in  Earning  Losses  Associated 
with  a  Community-Based  Cardiovascular  Disease  Prevention 
Project,"  Medical  Care,  20,  No.  7,  July  1982,  663-75. 

Kuusi,  Pekka.  Social  Policy  for  the  Sixties.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Social 
Policy  Association,  1964. 

Lander,  Patricia  Slade.  In  the  Shadow  of  the  Factory:  Social  Change  in 
a  Finnish  Community.  Cambridge:  Schenkman,  1976. 

Leimu,  K.  "Finland:  System  of  Education. "  Pages  1891-98  in 
Torsten  Husen  and  T.  Neville  Postlethwaite  (eds.),  International 
Encyclopedia  of  Education:  Research  and  Studies,  Vol.  4.  Oxford: 
Pergamon  Press,  1985. 

Liberies,  Adina  Weiss.  "The  Jewish  Community  of  Finland." 
Pages  135-51  in  Daniel  Judah  Elazar,  Adina  Weiss  Liberies, 
and  Simcha  Werner  (eds.).  The  Jewish  Communities  of  Scandina- 
via: Sweden,  Denmark,  Norway,  and  Finland.  Lanham,  Maryland: 
University  Press  of  America,  1984. 

Lindgren,  Jarl.  Towards  Smaller  Families  in  the  Changing  Society.  (Pub- 
lications of  the  Population  Research  Institute,  Series  D,  11.) 
Helsinki:  Population  Research  Institute,  1984. 

Lindgren,  Jarl,  and  Mauri  Nieminen.  "Remarriage  in  Finland." 
Pages  37-48  in  Jarl  Lindgren  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Population  Research 
in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Population  Research  Institute,  1988. 

Lovio,  Timo.  "Culture,  Family  Planning,  and  the  Number  of  Chil- 
dren." Pages  62-72  in  Jarl  Lindgren  (ed.),  Yearbook  of  Popula- 
tion Research  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Population  Research  Institute, 
1988. 

Lutz,  Wolfgang.  "Effects  of  Fertility  Trends  on  Population  Aging 
in  Finland."  Pages  19-29  in  Jarl  Lindgren  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Popu- 
lation Research  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Population  Research  Insti- 
tute, 1987. 

 Finnish  Fertility  Since  1 722.  (Publications  of  the  Population 

Research  Institute,  Series  D,  18.)  Helsinki:  Population  Research 
Institute,  1987. 

McAlister,  Alfred,  et  al.  "Theory  and  Action  for  Health  Promo- 
tion: Illustrations  from  the  North  Karelia  FroiGCt,"  American  Jour- 
nal of  Public  Health,  72,  No.  1,  January  1982,  43-50. 

McRae,  Kenneth  D.  "Finland:  Marginal  Case  of  Bicommunal- 
ism?"  Publius,  18,  No.  2,  Spring  1988,  91-100. 

Makela,  Klaus.  "The  Changing  Nature  of  Unrecorded  Alcohol 
Consumption  in  Finland  in  the  Postwar  Period,"  Contemporary 
Drug  Problems,  10,  No.  1,  Spring  1981,  103-44. 


390 


Bibliography 


Makinen,  Tuija.  Mustalaisten  Kohtelixsta.  Helsinki:  National  Research 
Institute  of  Legal  Policy,  1984. 

Matheson,  David  K.  Ideology,  Political  Action,  and  the  Finnish  Work- 
ing Class:  A  Survey  Study  of  Political  Behavior.  (Commentationes 
Scientiarum  Socialium  Series,  10.)  Helsinki:  Societas  Scientiarum 
Fennica,  1979. 

Maula,  Jere.  "Entwicklungsgeschichtliche  Probleme  des  Stadte- 
baus  in  Finnland."  Pages  53-59  in  Briitta  Koskiaho  et  cd.  (eds.), 
Lebensweise  und  Lebensniveau  Wohnen  und  Wohnumwelt.  Tampere, 
Finland:  Finnpublishers,  1979. 

Mead,  William  Richard.  An  Economic  Geography  of  the  Scandinavian 
States  and  Finland.  London:  University  of  London  Press,  1958. 

 .  Finland.  (Nations  of  the  Modern  World  Series.)  London: 

Ernest  Benn,  1968. 

 Hou)  People  Live  in  Finland.  London:  Ward  Lock  Educa- 
tional Company,  1965. 

Mead,  William  Richard,  and  Wendy  Hall.  Scandinavia.  London: 
Thames  2ind  Hudson,  1972. 

Mead,  William  Richard,  and  S.H.  Jaatinen.  The  Aland  Islands. 
Newton  Abbot,  Devonshire,  United  Kingdom:  David  and 
Charles,  1975. 

Mead,  William  Richard,  and  Helmer  Smeds.  Winter  in  Finland: 
A  Study  of  Human  Geography.  New  York:  Praeger,  1967. 

Miemois,  Karljohan.  The  Minority  Client's  View  of  Public  Adminis- 
tration in  a  Bilingual  Society.  (Research  Reports,  26.)  Helsinki: 
Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology,  University  of 
Helsinki,  1980. 

Miiller-Wille,  Ludger.  Lappen  und  Finnen  in  Utsjoki  (Ohcijohka),  Finn- 
land.  (Westfalische  Geographische  Studien  Series,  30.)  Miinster, 
West  Germany:  Institut  fur  Geographic  und  Landerkunde  und 
die  Geographische  Kommission  fur  Westfalen,  1974. 

Naukkarinen,  Arvo.  "Trends  in  Population  Redistribution  in  Fin- 
land Since  the  Second  World  War,"  Nordia  [Oulu,  Finland],  15, 
No.  1,  1981,  25-30. 

Nickels,  Sylvie,  et  zd.  (eds.).  Finland:  An  Introduction.  New  York: 
Praeger,  1973. 

Nieminen,  Mauri.  Finlands  svensksprdkiga  befolkning  dren  1980-2020. 

(Studies,  98.)  Helsinki:  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland,  1983. 
Nordic  Council.  Nordic  Statistical  Secretariat.  Level  of  Living  and 

Inequality  in  the  Nordic  Countries:  A  Comparative  Analysis  of  the  Nordic 

Comprehensive  Surveys.  Stockholm:  1984. 
Nordic  Council  of  Ministers.  Kvinnor  och  man  i  Norden:  Fakta  om 

jdmstdlldheten,  1988.  Stockholm:  Nordic  Council  of  Ministers, 

1988. 


391 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


 Nordic  Statistical  Secretariat.  Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics, 

1982.  Copenhagen:  1983. 

 Nordic  Statistical  Secretariat.  Yearbook  of  Nordic  Statistics, 

1987.  Copenhagen:  1988. 

Oikeuspoliittinen  Tutkimuslaitos  (Research  Institute  on  LegaJ 
Policy).  "Abstract:  Criminality  in  Finland,  1986."  Pages  163-71 
in  Rikollisuustilanne,  1986.  Helsinki:  1987. 

Oksa,  Jukka.  "The  Social  Function  of  a  Provincial  Center:  The 
Case  of  Joensuu."  Pages  33-55  in  Jukka  Oksa  (ed.),  Papers  on 
Social  Change  in  North  Karelia.  Joensuu,  Finland:  Karelian  Insti- 
tute, University  of  Joensuu,  1985. 

Oksa,  Jukka,  Heikki  Eskelinen,  and  Pertti  Rannikko.  "Structural 
Change  in  the  Finnish  Forest  Periphery  and  Its  Effects  on  Young 
People."  Pages  5-14  in  Jukka  Oksa  (ed.).  Papers  on  Social  Change 
in  North  Karelia.  Joensuu,  Finland:  Karelian  Institute,  Univer- 
sity of  Joensuu,  1985. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development.  Envi- 
ronmental Policies  in  Finland.  Paris:  1988. 

Osterberg,  Esa.  Alcohol  Policy  Measures  and  the  Consumption  of  Alco- 
holic Beverages  in  Finland,  1950-75.  (Reports  from  the  Social 
Research  Institute  of  Alcohol  Studies,  137.)  Helsinki:  State 
Alcohol  Monopoly,  Social  Research  Institute  of  Alcohol  Studies, 
1980. 

 "From  Home  Distillation  to  the  State  Alcohol  Monopoly, ' ' 

Contemporary  Drug  Problems,  14,  No.  1,  Spring  1985,  31-51. 

 Recorded  Consumption  of  Alcohol  in  Finland,  1950-75.  (Reports 

from  the  Social  Research  Institute  of  Alcohol  Studies,  125.) 
Helsinki:  State  Alcohol  Monopoly,  Social  Research  Institute  of 
Alcohol  Studies,  1980. 

Palomaki,  Mauri.  "Industrial  Development  and  Regional  Stan- 
dards of  Living  in  Finland."  Pages  189-213  in  David  F.  Walker 
(ed.).  Planning  Industrial  Development.  Chichester,  Sussex,  United 
Kingdom:  John  Wiley  and  Sons,  1980. 

Parrukoski,  Timo.  "Administration  of  the  Finnish  Orthodox 
Church."  Pages  22-26  in  Veikko  Purmonen  (ed.).  Orthodoxy  in 
Finland.  Kuopio,  Finland:  Orthodox  Clergy  Association, 
1981. 

Partanen,  Juha  (ed.).  Finnish  Intoxication  on  the  Screen.  (Reports  from 
the  Social  Research  Institute  of  Alcohol  Studies,  143.)  Helsinki: 
State  Alcohol  Monopoly,  Social  Research  Institute  of  Alcohol 
Studies,  1980. 

Pedersen,  Mogens.  "Universities  and  Other  Institutions  of  Higher 
Education."  Pages  444-64  in  Erik  AUardt  et  al.  (eds.),  Nordic 
Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det  Danske  Selskab,  1981. 


392 


Bibliography 


Pentikainen,  Juha,  et  al.  Cultural  Pluralism  and  the  Position  of  Minorities 
in  Finland.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish  National  Commission  for 
UNESCO,  1981. 

Pesonen,  Pertti.  "Finland:  The  'One  Man-One  Vote'  Issue." 
Pages  365-93  in  Hans  Daalder  and  Edward  Shils  (eds.),  Univer- 
sities, Politicians,  and  Bureaucrats:  Europe  and  the  United  States.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1982. 

Piekksda,  Paula,  et  cd.  "Declining  Perinatal  Mortality  in  a  Region 
of  Finland,  196S-S2,''  American  Journal  of  Public  Health,  75,  No.  2, 
February  1985,  156-60. 

Piatt,  Raye  R.  (ed.).  Finland  and  Its  Geography.  (American  Geo- 
graphical Society  Handbook  Series.)  New  York:  Duell,  Sloan, 
and  Pearce,  1955. 

Poikolainen,  Kari.  Alcohol  Poisoning  Mortality  in  Four  Nordic  Coun- 
tries. (Alcohol  Research  in  the  Northern  Countries  Series,  28.) 
Helsinki:  Finnish  Foundation  for  Alcohol  Studies,  1977. 

 "From  Inebriation  to  Incremation — Finnish  Drinking 

Habits  and  Mortality."  Pages  121-26  in  Kalle  Achte  et  al.  (eds.), 
Psychiatria  Fennica,  1978.  Helsinki:  Foundation  for  Psychiatric 
Research  in  Finland,  1978. 

Pontinen,  Seppo.  Social  Mobility  and  Social  Structure:  A  Comparison 
of  Scandinavian  Countries.  (Commentationes  Scientiarum  Socialium 
Series,  20.)  Helsinki:  Societas  Scientiarum  Fennica,  1983. 

Population  Crisis  Committee.  Country  Rankings  of  the  Status  of  Women: 
Poor,  Powerless,  and  Pregnant.  (Population  Briefing  Paper  Series, 
20.)  Washington:  1988. 

Purmonen,  Veikko.  "Orthodoxy  in  Finland:  An  Historical  Intro- 
duction." Pages  13-21  in  Veikko  Purmonen  (ed.).  Orthodoxy  in 
Finland.  Kuopio,  Finland:  Orthodox  Clergy  Association,  1981. 

Rajanen,  Aini.  Of  Finnish  Ways.  New  York:  Barnes  and  Noble, 
1984. 

Rannikko,  Pertti,  and  Jukka  Oksa.  "The  Social  Consequences  of 
the  Differentiation  of  Agriculture  and  Forestry:  A  Case  Study 
of  Two  Villages  in  Finnish  Forest  Periphery."  Pages  15-31  in 
Jukka  Oksa  (ed.).  Papers  on  Social  Change  in  North  Karelia.  Joensuu, 
Finland:  Karelian  Institute,  University  of  Joensuu,  1985. 

Rantalaiho,  Liisa.  "Finnish  Women  in  Working  Life."  Pages  5-14 
in  Sirkku  Kuusava  (ed.).  Vocation:  Woman.  Helsinki:  National 
Council  of  Women  of  Finland,  1988. 

Rauhala,  Urho.  Quantitative  Analyses  of  Social  Strata  in  Finland.  (Official 
Statistics  of  Finland,  Special  Socicd  Studies,  37.)  Helsinki: 
Ministry  of  SociaJ  Affairs  and  Health,  Research  Department, 
1974. 


393 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


 Social  Strata  in  Finland  in  1960-75.  (Official  Statistics  of  Fin- 
land, Special  Social  Studies,  80.)  Helsinki:  Ministry  of  Social 
Affairs  and  Health,  Research  Department,  1981. 

Roos,  J. P.  "Life  Stories  of  Social  Changes:  Four  Generations  in 
Finland."  Pages  151-61  inJ.P.  Roos  and  Andrzej  Sicinski  (eds.). 
Ways  of  Life  in  Finland  and  Poland:  Comparative  Studies  on  Urban 
Populations.  Aldershot,  Hampshire,  United  Kingdom:  Avebury, 
1987. 

Runeberg,  Tutta.  Childhood  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Central  Union 
for  Child  Welfare  in  Finland,  1983. 

Ruokanen,  Tapani.  The  Evangelical-Lutheran  Church  in  Finland. 
Pieksamaki,  Finland:  Information  Centre  of  the  Evangelical- 
Lutheran  Church  of  Finland,  1987. 

Salonen,  Jukka  T.,  et  al.  "Changing  in  Smoking,  Serum 
Cholesterol,  and  Blood  Pressure  Levels  During  a  Community- 
Based  Cardiovascular  Disease  Prevention  Program — The  North 
Karelia  Project,"  ^mmVrflw  Journal  of  Epidemiology,  114,  No.  1, 
July  1981,  81-94. 

Saltman,  Richard  B.  "National  Planning  for  Locally  Controlled 
Health  Systems:  The  Finnish  Experience,"  Journal  of  Health 
Politics,  Policy,  and  Law,  13,  No.  1,  Spring  1988,  27-51. 

Sandlund,  Tom.  Social  Structure  and  Social  Mobility:  A  Study  of  the 
Swedish  Population  in  Finland,  1950-75.  (Ethnicity  and  Mobility: 
Research  Reports,  10.)  Turku,  Finland:  Abo  Akademi,  1982. 

Sentzke,  Geert.  Finland:  Its  Church  and  Its  People.  Helsinki:  Luther- 
Agricola  Society,  1963. 

Sihvo,  Jouko.  Marriage  and  Divorce  in  Finland  Since  the  Second  World 
War.  Tampere,  Finland:  Research  Institute  of  the  Lutheran 
Church  of  Finland,  1977. 

Simpura,  Jussi.  Drinking  Contexts  and  Social  Meanings  of  Drinking:  A 
Study  with  Finnish  Drinking  Occasions.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Founda- 
tion for  Alcohol  Studies,  1983. 

 .  "Drinking  Habits  in  Finland  and  Scotland:  A  Compari- 
son of  Survey  Results,"  International  Journal  of  the  Addictions,  16, 
No.  7,  October  1981,  1129-41. 

 .  ' ' Muuttuvatko  suomalaisten  juomatavat? ' '  Alkoholipolitiikka 

[Helsinki],  50,  No.  6,  1985,  294-302. 

Sinkkonen,  Sirkka,  and  Elina  Haavio-Mannila.  "The  Impact  of 
the  Women's  Movement  and  Legislative  Activity  of  Women  MPs 
on  Social  Development."  Pages  195-215  in  Margherita  Rendel 
(ed.).  Women,  Power  and  Political  Systems.  New  York:  St.  Martin's 
Press,  1981. 

Sinnemaki,  Maunu.  The  Church  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  Otava,  1973. 


394 


Bibliography 


Siren,  Reino,  and  Markku  Heiskanen.  Victimization  to  Violence: 
Results  from  a  1980  National  Survey.  Helsinki:  National  Research 
Institute  of  Legal  Policy,  1985. 

Siuruainen,  Eino  (ed.).  Ten  Years  of  Work  at  Research  Institute  of  North- 
ern Finland.  Oulu,  Finland:  Research  Institute  of  Northern  Fin- 
land, University  of  Oulu,  1986. 

Siuruainen,  Eino,  and  Pekka  Aikio.  The  Lapps  in  Finland.  (Society 
for  the  Promotion  of  Lapp  Culture  Series,  39.)  Helsinki:  Society 
for  the  Promotion  of  Lapp  Culture,  1977. 

Skard,  Torild,  and  Elina  Haavio-Mannila.  "Equality  Between  the 
Sexes — Myth  or  Reality  in  Norden?"  Daedalus,  113,  No.  1, 
Winter  1984,  141-67. 

Smeds,  Helmer.  "Finland."  Pages  155-203  in  Axel  Somme  (ed.), 
A  Geogrqphy  of  Norden.  Stockholm:  Svenska  Bokforlaget,  1968. 

Soramaki,  Martti,  2ind  Tuomo  Sauri.  Time-Use  of  the  Finns.  (Reports 
from  the  Section  for  Long  Range  Planning  and  Research,  18.) 
Helsinki:  Finnish  Broadcasting,  1977. 

Sulkunen,  Pekka.  Abstainers  in  Finland,  1946-76:  A  Study  in  Social 
and  Cultural  Transition.  (Reports  from  the  Social  Research  Insti- 
tute of  Alcohol  Studies,  133.)  Helsinki:  State  Alcohol  Monopoly, 
Social  Research  Institute  of  Alcohol  Studies,  1979. 

 The  Wet  Generation:  Living  Conditions  and  Drinking  Patterns 

in  Finland — Continuities  in  a  Reanalysis  of  Finnish  Drinking  Survey 
Data.  (Reports  from  the  Social  Research  Institute  of  Alcohol 
Studies,  155.)  Helsinki:  State  Alcohol  Monopoly,  Social  Research 
Institute  of  Alcohol  Studies,  1981. 

Sundback,  Susan.  "Finland."  Pages  66-110  in  Goran  Gustafsson 
(ed.),  Religids  Fordndring  i  Norden,  1930-1980.  Malmo,  Sweden: 
Liber,  1985. 

Sundberg,  Heimer.  "Social  Security."  Pages  192-209  in  Jaakko 
Uotila(ed.),  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers 
Publishing,  1985. 

Sundberg,  Jan.  Svenskhetens  Dilemma  i  Finland.  (Bidrag  tiQ  Kannedom 
av  Finlands  Natur  och  Folk  Series,  133.)  Helsinki:  Finska 
Vetenskaps-Societeten,  1985. 

Suolinna,  Kirsti.  "The  Popular  Revival  Movements."  Pages 
589-608  in  Erik  Allardt  et  al.  (eds.),  Nordic  Democracy.  Copen- 
hagen: Det  Danske  Selskab,  1981. 

Suviranta,  Antti.  "Labour  Law."  Pages  182-91  in  Jaakko  Uotila 
(ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers  Pub- 
lishing, 1985. 

Sysiharju,  Anna-Liisa.  "Primary  Education  and  Secondary 
Schools."  Pages  419-43  in  Erik  Allardt  et  al.  (eds.),  Nordic 
Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det  Danske  Selskab,  1981. 


395 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Tillhagen,  C.H.  ''The  Gypsy  Problem  in  VinXdHid,''  Journal  of  the 
Gypsy  Lore  Society  [Coventry,  Warwickshire,  United  Kingdom], 
38,  Nos.  1  and  2,  1958,  41-50. 

Tervamaki,  Erkki.  "Migration  in  Finland,  a  Multi-Level  System 
of  Regions,"  Fennia  [Helsinki],  165,  No.  1,  1987,  1-88. 

Tola,  Sak2iri,  et  2d.  "Lung  Cancer  Mortality  Among  Iron  Foundry 
Workers, ' '  Journal  of  Occupational  Medicine,  2 1 ,  No.  1 1 ,  Novem- 
ber 1979,  753-60. 

Tornudd,  Klaus.  Finland  and  the  International  Norms  of  Human  Rights. 
(International  Studies  in  Human  Rights.)  Dordrecht,  The 
Netherlands:  Martinus  Nijhoff,  1986. 

 Svenska  sprdkets  stdllning  i  Finland.  (Finland  i  dag  Series.) 

Helsinki:  Holger  Schildts  Forlag,  1978. 

Uppslagsverket  Finland.  (3  vols.)  Helsinki:  Holger  Schildts  Forlag, 
1982-85. 

Valkeapaa,  Nils-Aslak.  Greetings  from  Lappland:  The  Sami,  Europe  ^s 
Forgotten  People.  London:  Zed  Press,  1983. 

Valkonen,  Tapani.  "The  Mystery  of  the  Premature  Mortality  of 
Finnish  Men."  Pages  228-41  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al.  (eds.).  Small 
States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo:  Nor- 
wegian University  Press,  1985. 

Varja,  Uuno.  "Changes  in  Farming  in  Finland  1969-75,"  Fennia 
[Helsinki],  162,  No.  1,  1984,  103-15. 

Vauras,  Marja,  and  Kauko  Honkala.  Social  Participation  and  Visit- 
ing in  Parainen,  Finland.  (Sociological  Studies,  Series  A,  No.  8.) 
Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Sociology  and  Political  Research, 
University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Vepsa,  Kirsti.  "Wohnbediirfnisse  und  Lebensniveau  in  Finnland." 
Pages  90-102  in  Briitta  Koskiaho  et  al.  (eds.),  Lebensweise  und 
Lebensniveau  Wohnen  und  Wohnumvuelt.  Tampere,  Finland:  Finn- 
publishers,  1979. 

Vienonen,  Mikko.  "Health  for  All  Mothers  and  Children  in  Fin- 
land," Scandinavian  Review,  77,  No.  1,  Spring  1989,  29-36. 

Volanen,  Risto.  "Finland."  Pages  231-44  in  Tore  Modeen  (ed.), 
Recruiting  for  High  Offices  in  the  Central  Administration.  Tampere, 
Finland:  Department  of  Administrative  Sciences,  University  of 
Tampere,  1983. 

Vuorela,  Toivo.  The  Finno-Ugric  Peoples.  (Indiana  University  Pub- 
lications, Uralic  and  Altaic  Series,  39.)  Bloomington:  Indiana 
University  Press,  1964. 

Walls,  Georg.  Health  Care  and  Social  Welfare  in  Cooperation.  (Jyvaskyla 
Studies  in  Education,  Psychology  and  Social  Research 
Series,  48.)  Jyvaskyla,  Finland:  University  of  Jyvaskyla,  1982. 


396 


Bibliography 


West  Germany.  Statistisches  Bundesamt.  Ldnderbericht  Finnland, 
1986.  Wiesbaden:  W.  Kohlhammer,  1986. 


Chapter  3 

Ahvenainen,  Jorma.  "The  Paper  Industry  in  Finland  and  in  Rus- 
sia, 1885-1913,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala, 
Sweden],  27,  No.  1,  1979,  47-66. 

Ahvenainen,  Jorma,  Erkki  Pihkala,  and  Viljo  Rasila  (eds.).  Suomen 
taloushistoria.  (3  vols.)  Helsinki:  Kustannusosakeyhtio  Tammi, 
1980-83. 

Alapuro,  Risto.  Finland:  an  Interface  Periphery.  (Research  Reports, 
25.)  Helsinki:  Research  Group  for  Comparative  Sociology, 
University  of  Helsinki,  1980. 

Alestalo,  Marja.  "Changing  Governance  and  Research  in  Fin- 
land," Science  and  Public  Policy,  12,  October  1985,  279-85. 

Alestalo,  Matti,  Peter  Flora,  and  Hannu  Uusitalo.  "Structure  and 
Politics  in  the  Making  of  the  Welfare  State:  Finland  in  Com- 
parative Perspective."  Pages  188-210  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al. 
(eds.).  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Eric  Allardt. 
Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 

Alestalo,  Matti,  and  Stein  Kuhnle.  "The  Scandinavian  Route:  Eco- 
nomic, Social,  and  Political  Developments  in  Denmark,  Finland, 
Norway,  and  Sweden."  Pages  3-38  in  Robert  Erikson  et  al. 
(eds.).  The  Scandinavian  Model.  Armonk,  New  York:  M.E.  Sharpe, 
1987. 

Alestalo,  Matti,  and  Hannu  Uusitalo.  "Finland."  Pages  197-292 
in  Peter  Flora  (ed.).  Growth  to  Limits:  The  Western  European  Wel- 
fare States  Since  World  War  II,  Vol.  1.  West  Berlin:  Walter  de 
Gruyter,  1986. 

AUardt,  Erik.  "The  Civic  Conception  of  the  Welfare  State  in  Scan- 
dinavia." Pages  107-25  in  Richard  Rose  and  Rei  Shiratori  (eds.), 
The  Welfare  State  East  and  West.  New  York:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1986. 

Anderson,  Palle,  and  Johnny  Akerholm.  "Scandinavia."  Pages 
610-44  in  Andrea  Boltho  (ed.).  The  European  Economy:  Growth 
and  Crisis.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1982. 

Andersson,  Edward.  "Corporate  Tax  Laws  as  Instruments  of  Eco- 
nomic Policy:  Some  Finnish  Experiences,"  International  Bureau 
of  Fiscal  Documentation  Bulletin,  37,  January  1983,  35-39. 

Antola,  Esko.  "The  Evolution  of  Official  Finnish  Development 
Policy,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  13,  No.  4,  December 
1978,  231-41. 


397 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Armstrong,  Terence.  "Transportation  of  Resources  from  and 
Through  the  Northern  Waters."  Pages  55-68  in  CUve  Archer 
and  David  Scrivener  (eds.),  Northern  Waters:  Security  and  Resource 
Issues.  Totowa,  New  Jersey:  Barnes  and  Noble,  1986. 

Arter,  David.  Politics  and  Policy -Making  in  Finland.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1987. 

Attman,  Artur.  "The  Russian  Market  in  World  Trade, 
1500-1860,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala, 
Sweden],  24,  No.  3,  1981,  177-202. 

Blacksell,  Mark.  Post-war  Europe:  A  Political  Geography.  London: 
Hutchinson,  1981. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Finland:  Country  Profile,  1988.  Lon- 
don: 1988. 

 .  Finland:  Country  Profile,  1989.  London:  1989. 

Eskelinen,  Heikki.  "International  Integration  and  Regional  Devel- 
opment: The  Finnish  Experience,"  Journal  of  Common  Market 
Studies  [Oxford],  23,  No.  3,  March  1985,  229-55. 

 "Regional  Alternatives:  The  Finnish  Case."  Pages  15-22 

in  Dudley  Seers  and  Kjell  Olstrom  (eds.).  The  Crises  of  the  Euro- 
pean Regions.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1983. 

 Regional  Division  of  Labour  in  a  Semiperipheral  Country:  Loca- 

tional  Shifts  in  Industrial  Employment  in  Finland.  Joensuu,  Finland: 
University  of  Joensuu,  Karelian  Institute,  1984. 

Finland.  Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland.  Statistical  Yearbook  of 
Finland  Helsinki:  1970-87. 

 .  Ministry  of  the  Environment.  Environmental  High  Technology 

from  Finland.  Helsinki:  1986. 

 .  Ministry  of  Finance.  A  Survey  of  the  Prospects  for  the  Finnish 

Economy  and  State  Finances  to  1986.  Helsinki:  1982. 

 Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industry.  State  Owned  Companies  in 

Finland,  1986.  Helsinki:  1987. 

 Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industry.  Energy  Department.  Fin- 
land and  Energy.  Helsinki:  1986. 

 .  Minister  of  Trade  and  Industry.  Energy  Department.  Low 

Oil  Prices,  Chernobyl,  and  Finland's  Energy  Prospects.  Helsinki: 
October  1986. 

Halttunen,  Hannu,  and  Sixten  Korkman.  "External  Shocks  and 
Adjustment  Policies  in  Finland,  1973-80."  Pages  7-33  in  Mar- 
cello  de  Cecco  (ed.).  International  Economic  Adjustment:  Small  Coun- 
tries and  the  European  Monetary  System.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press 
in  cooperation  with  the  European  University  Institute,  Florence, 
Italy,  1983. 


398 


Bibliography 


Heikkila,  Hannu.  "Credits  of  Export-Import  Bank  to  Finland, 
1945-1948,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala, 
Sweden],  30,  No.  3,  1982,  207-25. 

Helander,  Voitto.  "A  Liber2il-Corporatist  Sub-system  in  Action: 
The  Income  Policy  System  in  Finland."  Pages  163-87  in  Gerhard 
Lehmbruch  and  Philippe  C.  Schmitter  (eds.).  Patterns  of  Corporatist 
Policy-Making.  London:  SAGE,  1982. 

Helela,  Timo,  Erkki  Laatto  and  J.J.  Paunio.  "Some  Reflections 
on  the  Nature  of  the  Growth  Process  in  the  Finnish  Economy," 
Weltwirtschaftliches  Archiv  [Hamburg],  92,  No.  1,  1964,  222-31. 

Herranen,  Timo,  and  Timo  Myllyntaus.  "Effects  of  the  First  World 
War  on  the  Engineering  Industries  of  Estonia  and  Finland," 
Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala,  Sweden]  32,  No.  3, 
1984,  121-42. 

Hildebrand,  Karl-Gustaf.  "Economic  Policy  in  Scandinavia  dur- 
ing the  Inter- war  Period,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review 
[Uppsala,  Sweden],  23,  No.  1-2,  1975,  99-115. 

Hjerppe,  Reino  T.  "Measurement  of  the  Role  of  the  Public  Sec- 
tor in  the  Finnish  Economy,"  Review  of  Income  and  Wealth,  28, 
No.  4,  December  1982,  449-66. 

Hjerppe,  Riitta.  "Main  Trends  in  Finnish  Economic  Development 
in  1860-1985,"  Bank  of  Finland  Monthly  Review  [Helsinki],  61, 
No.  8,  August  1987,  26-32. 

Holopainen,  Viljo.  Outlines  of  Finland's  Forestry  and  Forest  Policy.  Hel- 
sinki: Suomen  Metsatieteellinen  Seura,  1984. 

Holsti,  Kai  J.  "Politics  in  Command:  Foreign  Trade  as  National 
Security,"  International  Organization,  40,  No.  3,  Summer  1986, 
643-71. 

Ilbery,  Brian  W.  Western  Europe:  A  Systematic  Human  Geography. 
(2d  ed.)  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1986. 

Jensen,  Bartell  C.  The  Impact  of  Reparations  on  the  Post- War  Finnish 
Economy:  An  Input-Output  Study.  (Krannert  Graduate  School,  Pur- 
due University  Monograph  Series,  No.  2.)  Homewood,  Illinois: 
Richard  D.  Irwin,  1966. 

Jorberg,  Lennart,  and  OUe  Krantz.  "Scandinavia,  1914-1970." 
Pages  377-459  in  Carlo  M.  Cipolla  (ed.).  The  Fontana  Economic 
History  of  Europe,  Vol.  6,  Contemporary  Economies.  Pt  2.  New  York: 
Harper  and  Row,  1977. 

Jutikka,  Eino.  "Industrial  Take-Off  in  an  Under-Developed  Coun- 
try: The  Case  of  Finland,"  Weltwirtschaftliches  Archiv  [Hamburg], 
88,  No.  1,  1962,  53-67. 

Kiiskinen,  Auvo.  "Regional  Economic  Growth  in  Finland, 
1880-1952,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala, 
Sweden],  9,  No.  1,  1961,  83-104. 


399 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Kiljunen,  Kimmo.  "Finland  in  the  International  Division  of 
Labour."  Pages  279-302  in  Marja-Liisa  Kiljunen,  Bernard 
Schaffer,  and  Dudley  Seers  (eds.),  Underdeveloped  Europe:  Studies 
in  Core-Periphery  Relations.  Atlantic  Highlands,  New  Jersey: 
Humanities  Press,  1979. 

Koskimies,  Jaakko.  "Finland."  Pages  143-67  in  Albert  A.  Blum 
(ed.).  International  Handbook  of  Industrial  Relations:  Contemporary 
Developments  and  Research.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood 
Press,  1981. 

Krugman,  Paul.  EFTA  and  1992.  (Occasional  Paper  No.  23.) 

Geneva:  Economic  Affairs  Department,  European  Free  Trade 

Association,  June  1988. 
Laakso,  Jukka.  Interaction  Between  Energy  Supply  and  Long-term 

Development  of  the  Finnish  Economy.  Helsinki:  Helsinki  School  of 

Economics,  1984. 
Maentakanen,  Erkki.  "Western  and  Eastern  Europe  in  Finnish 

Trade  Policy,  1957-1974:  Towards  a  Comprehensive  Solution?" 

Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  13,  No.  1,  March  1978,  21-41. 
Mauranen,  Tapani.  Economic  Development  in  Hungary  and  in  Finland, 

1860-1939.  Helsinki:  Institute  of  Economic  and  Social  History, 

University  of  Helsinki,  1985. 
Mj0set,  Lars.  "Nordic  Economic  Policies  in  the  1970s  and  1980s," 

International  Organization,  41,  No.  3,  Summer  1987,  403-56. 
Montgomery,  Arthur.  "From  a  Northern  Customs  Union  to 

EFTA,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala,  Sweden], 

8,  No.  1,  1960,  45-70. 

Mottola,  Kari,  and  Oleg  Nikolaevich  Bykov  (eds.).  Finnish-  Soviet 
Economic  Relations.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1983. 

Nordic  Council  of  Ministers.  Nordic  Statistical  Secretariat.  Year- 
book of  Nordic  Statistics.  Copenhagen:  1970-1987. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development.  Fin- 
land. (OECD  Economic  Surveys.)  Paris:  1978-88. 

 Manpower  Policy  in  Finland.  (OECD  Reviews  of  Manpower 

and  Social  Policies,  No.  17.)  Paris:  1977. 

 Wage  Policies  and  Collective  Bargaining  Developments  in  Fin- 
land, Ireland,  and  Norway.  Paris:  1979. 

Pipping,  Hugo  E.  "Swedish  Paper  Currency  in  Finland  after 
1809,"  Scandinavian  Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala,  Sweden], 

9,  No.  1,  1961,  68-83. 

Piatt,  Raye  R.  (ed.).  Finland  and  Its  Geography.  (American  Geo- 
graphical Society  Handbook  Series.)  New  York:  Duell,  Sloan, 
and  Pearce,  1955. 

Rooth,  Tim  J.T.  "Tariffs  and  Trade  Bargaining:  Anglo- 
Scandinavian  Economic  Relations  in  the  1930s,"  Scandinavian 


400 


Bibliography 


Economic  History  Review  [Uppsala,  Sweden],  34,  No.  1,  1986, 
54-71. 

Saralehto,  Sampsa,  and  Laura  Vajanne.  "Finnish  Foreign  Trade," 
Unitas  [Helsinki],  58,  No.  2,  1986,  44-49. 

Senghass,  Dieter.  The  European  Experience:  A  Historical  Critique  of 
Development  Theory.  (Translated  by  K.H,  Kimmig.)  Dover,  New 
Hampshire:  Berg  Publishers,  1985. 

Singleton,  Fred.  The  Economy  of  Finland  in  the  Twentieth  Century.  Brad- 
ford, Yorkshire,  United  Kingdom:  University  of  Bradford,  ca. 
1986. 

Skully,  Michael  T.  "Finland  and  the  EEC:  A  Historical  Economic 
Outline  of  Their  Trade  Relations,"  Journal  of  Baltic  Studies,  7, 
No.  3,  Fall  1976,  220-30. 

Smotkine,  Henri.  La  Finlande.  (Que  sais-je.  No.  2272.)  Paris: 
Presses  Universitaires  de  France,  1986. 

Sukselainen,  Tuomas,  et  al.  A  Comparative  Study  of  the  Economic 
Developments  in  Finland,  Norway,  and  Sweden,  1982-1985.  (Occa- 
sional Paper  No.  16.)  Geneva:  Economic  Affairs  Department, 
European  Free  Trade  Association,  September  1,  1986. 

Sundelius,  Bengt,  and  Claes  Wiklund.  "The  Nordic  Community: 
The  Ugly  Duckling  of  Regional  Cooperation,"  yowrna/  of  Com- 
mon Market  Studies  [Oxford],  28,  No.  1,  September  1979,  59-75. 

United  States.  Department  of  Agriculture.  Economic  Research 
Service.  World  Indices  of  Agricultural  and  Food  Production,  1976-1985. 
Washington:  1986. 

 Department  of  Labor.  Bureau  of  International  Labor 

Affairs.  Foreign  Labor  Trends:  Finland,  1984-1985.  (FLT  85-43.) 
Washington:  1985. 

 Department  of  Labor.  Foreign  Labor  Trends:  Finland,  1985- 

1986.  (FLT  86-55.)  Washington:  1986. 

 Department  of  the  Interior.  Bureau  of  Mines.  Mineral 

Industries  of  Europe  and  the  U.S.S.R.  (Mineral  Perspectives.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1984. 

Vartia,  Pentti.  "Finlcind  and  the  Crisis  of  the  '70's,"  Scandinavian 
Review,  74,  No.  4,  Winter  1984,  43-48. 

Vayrynen,  Raimo.  "Finland  and  the  Third  World,"  Co-  existence 
[Glasgow],  18,  AprH  1981,  53-64. 

 "Small  States  and  Technological  Dependence:  Austria  and 

Finland  Compared."  Pages  50-68  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al.  (eds.). 
Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo: 
Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 

Vesa,  Unto.  "Finland  and  the  New  International  Order,"  Coopera- 
tion and  Conflict  [Oslo],  14,  No.  2-3,  1979,  105-20. 


401 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Westermarck,  Nils.  "Postwar  Technological  and  Social  Develop- 
ment on  Family  Farms:  The  Case  of  Finland."  Pages  117-35 
in  Boguslaw  Galeski  and  Eugene  Wilkening  (eds.),  Family  Farming 
in  Europe  and  America,  Boulder:  Westview  Press,  1987. 

West  Germany.  Statistiches  Bundesamt.  Ldnderbericht  Finnland,  1986. 
(Statistik  des  Auslandes  Series.)  Wiesbaden:  W.  Kohlhammer, 
1986. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Bank  of  Finland  Bulletin  [Helsinki]; 
Christian  Science  Monitor;  The  Economist  [London];  Economist 
Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Finland  [London];  Economist 
Intelligence  Unit;  Country  Report:  Finland  [London];  EFTA  Bulletin 
[Geneva];  Euromoney  [London];  Le  Figaro  [Paris];  Financial  Times 
[London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  West 
Europe;  The  Guardian  [London];  International  Herald  Tribune  [Paris]; 
Joint  Publications  Research  Service,  West  Europe  Report;  Le  Monde 
[Paris];  New  York  Times;  Das  Parlament  [Bonn];  The  Times  [London]; 
Unitas  [Helsinki];  Wall  Street  Journal;  and  Washington  Post.) 


Chapter  4 

Alestalo,  Matti,  Peter  Flora,  and  Hannu  Uusitalo.  ''Structure  and 
Politics  in  the  Making  of  the  Welfare  State:  Finland  in  Com- 
parative Perspective."  Pages  188-210  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al. 
(eds.),  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt. 
Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 

Alestalo,  Matti,  and  Stein  Kuhnle.  "The  Scandinavian  Route:  Eco- 
nomic, Social,  2ind  Political  Developments  in  Denmark,  Finland, 
Norway,  and  Sweden."  Pages  3-38  in  Robert  Erikson  et  al. 
(eds.).  The  Scandinavian  Model:  Welfare  States  and  Welfare  Research. 
Armonk,  New  York:  M.E.  Sharpe,  1987. 

Allardt,  Erik.  "The  Civic  Conception  of  the  Welfare  State  in  Scan- 
dinavia." Pages  107-25  in  Richard  Rose  and  Rei  Shiratori  (eds.), 
The  Welfare  State  East  and  West.  New  York:  Oxford  University 
Press,  1986. 

 .  Samhdllet  Finland:  Omvandlingar  och  traditioner.  (Finland  i  dag 

Series.)  Hanko,  Finland:  Holger  Schildts  Forlag,  1985. 

 et  al.  (eds.).  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det  Danske 

Selskab,  1981. 

Allison,  Roy.  Finland's  Relations  vuith  the  Soviet  Union,  1944-84.  New 
York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1985. 


402 


Bibliography 

Anckar,  Dag.  "Foreign  Policy  Leadership  in  Finland:  Towards 
Parliamentarization?"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  19,  No.  4, 
1984,  219-33. 

 "Public  Allocation  by  Private  Organizations:  The  Case 

of  Finland,"  Scandinavian  Political  Studies  [Oslo],  8,  No.  4,  1985, 
283-97. 

Anckar,  Dag,  and  Voitto  Helander.  "Corporatism  and  Repre- 
sentative Government  in  the  Nordic  Countries."  Pages  124-37 
in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al.  (eds.).  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspec- 
tive: Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press, 
1985. 

Andren,  Nils.  "Changing  Strategic  Perspective  in  Northern 
Europe."  Pages  73-106  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.).  Foreign  Poli- 
cies of  Northern  Europe.  Boulder:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

 The  Future  of  the  Nordic  Balance.  Stockholm:  SSLP,  Minis- 

tr>'  of  Defense,  1978. 

 "The  Nordic  Countries  and  North-South  Relations." 

Pages  691-708  in  Erik  Allardt  et  al.  (eds.),  Nordic  Democracy. 
Copenhagen:  Det  Danske  Selskab,  1981. 

 "Nordic  Integration  and  Cooperation — Illusion  and  Real- 
ity," Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  19,  No.  4,  December  1984, 
251-62. 

Andren,  Nils,  and  Gylfi  P.  Gislason.  "The  Nordic  Countries 
Between  East  and  West."  Pages  677-90  in  Erik  Allardt  et 
al.  (eds.),  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det  Danske  Selskab, 
1981. 

Antola,  Esko.  "Developing  Countries  in  Finnish  Economic  Rela- 
tions." Pages  27-32  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Finnish 
Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International  Affairs, 
1979. 

 '  'The  Evolution  of  Official  Finnish  Development  Policy, ' ' 

Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  13,  No.  4,  December  1978,  231-41. 

 "Finland  and  the  Prospects  for  Western  European  Integra- 
tion in  the  1980s."  Pages  37-48  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook 
of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  Interna- 
tional Affairs,  1981. 

Appel,  Erik.  "Kalevi  Sorsa:  Prime  Minister  of  Finland,"  The 
American-Scandinavian  Review,  61,  No.  4,  December  1973,  340-44. 

Apunen,  Osmo.  "Finland's  Treaties  on  Security  Policy,"  Coopera- 
tion and  Conflict  [Oslo],  15,  No.  4,  December  1980,  249-61. 

Arnault,  Jacques.  Finlande,  ''Finlandisation,  "  Union  Sovietique.  Paris: 
Editions  L'Harmattan,  1986. 

Arter,  David.  "All-Party  Government  for  Finland?"  Parliamentary 
Affairs  [Liverpool],  31,  No.  1,  Winter  1978,  67-85. 


403 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


 "Communists  in  Scandinavian  Local  Government." 

Pages  96-1 18  in  Bogdan  Szajkowski  (ed.),  Marxist  Local  Govern- 
ments in  Western  Europe  and  Japan.  London:  Frances  Pinter,  1986. 

 "European  Elections — Finland,"  West  European  Politics 

[London],  2,  No.  3,  October  1979,  187-88. 

 "Die  Finnische  Sozialdemokratische  Partei."  Pages  35-53 

in  William  E.  Paterson  and  Kurt  Th.  Schmitz  (eds.),  Sozial- 
demokratische Partien  in  Europa.  Bonn:  Neue  Gesellschaft,  1979. 

 "The  Finnish  Centre  Party:  Profile  of  a  'Hinge  Group'," 

West  European  Politics  [London],  2,  No.  1,  January  1979,  108-27. 

 .  "The  Finnish  Christian  League:  Party  or  'Anti-  Party'?" 

Scandinavian  Political  Studies  [Olso],  3,  No.  2,  1980,  143-62. 

 "The  Finnish  Election  of  1979:  The  Empty-Handed  'Win- 
ner'?" Parliamentary  Affairs  [Liverpool],  32,  No.  4,  Autumn  1979, 
422-36. 

 .  "The  1987  Finnish  Election:  The  Conservatives  Out  of 

the  Wilderness,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  10,  No.  4, 

October  1987,  171-76. 
 "The  1983  Finnish  Election:  Protest  or  Consensus?"  West 

European  Politics  [London],  6,  No.  4,  October  1983,  252-55. 

 TTie  Nordic  Parliaments.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1984. 

 "The   Nordic  Parliaments:    Patterns   of  Legislative 

Influence,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  8,  No.  1,  January 

1985,  55-70. 

 .  Politics  and  Policy-Making  in  Finland.  New  York:  St.  Mar- 
tin's Press,  1987. 

 "Social  Democracy  in  a  West  European  Outpost:  The 

Case  of  the  Finnish  SDP,"  Polity,  12,  No.  3,  Spring  1980, 
363-87. 

Berglund,  Sten,  and  Ulf  Lindstrom.  The  Scandinavian  Party  System(s): 
A  Comparative  Study.  Lund:  Studentlitteratur,  1978. 

Berner,  Orjan.  Soviet  Policies  Toward  the  Nordic  Countries.  Lanham, 
Maryland:  University  Press  of  America,  1986. 

Berry,  R.  Michael,  and  Jan  Sundberg.  "Center  Party:  Finland." 
Pages  51-53  in  Byron  J.  Nordstrom  (ed.),  Dictionary  of  Scandina- 
vian History.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Bjol,  Erling.  Nordic  Security.  (Adelphi  Papers,  181.)  London:  Inter- 
nationad  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1983. 

Blom,  Raimo.  Associations  and  Political  Organization  of  Society.  Tam- 
pere, Finland:  Department  of  Sociology  and  Social  Psychology, 
University  of  Tampere,  1981. 

Blomstedt,  Yrjo.  "A  Historical  Background  of  the  Finnish  Legal 
System."  Pages  26-38  in  Jaakko  Uotila,  The  Finnish  Legal  Sys- 
tem. (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 


404 


Bibliography 


Borg,  Olavi,  and  Jukka  Paastela.  Communist  Participation  in  Govern- 
mental Coalitions:  The  Case  of  Finland.  (Research  Reports,  59.)  Tam- 
pere, Finland:  Department  of  Political  Science,  University  of 
Tampere,  1981. 

Brodin,  Katarina.  Hot  och  forsvar:  ndgra  centrala  frdgestdllningar  ifin- 
Idnsk  sdkerhetspolitik.  Stockholm:  Gentralforbundet  Folk  och  Fors- 
var, 1975. 

Brundtland,  Arne  Olav.  ''The  Nordic  Balance  and  Its  Possible 
Relevance  for  Europe."  Pages  119-38  in  Daniel  Frei  (ed.), 
Sicherheit  durch  Gleichgewicht?  Zurich:  Schulthess  Polygraphischer, 
1982. 

 .  "Norge:  Forhallandet  till  de  allierade  gar  fore  skapande 

av  karnvapenfri  zon,"  Vdrt  Forsvar  [Stockholm],  No.  2,  April 
1987,  13-14. 

Capps,  Finis  Herbert.  "Finland."  Pages  417-24  in  Robert  Wes- 
son (ed.).  Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs,  1983.  Stan- 
ford: Hoover  Institution  Press,  1983. 

Carstairs,  Andrew  McLaren.  A  Short  History  of  Electoral  Systems  in 
Western  Europe.  London:  George  Allen  and  Unwin,  1980. 

Castren,  Erik.  "Finland's  International  Agreements."  Pages 
243-51  in  Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System  (2d  ed.) 
Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

Dahrendorf,  Ralf.  "Das  Elend  der  Sozialdemokratie,"  Merkur 
[Munich],  41,  No.  2,  December  1987,  1021-38. 

Danspeckgruber,  Wolfgang.  "Armed  Neutrality:  Its  Application 
and  Future."  Pages  242-79  in  Stephen  J.  Flanagan  and  Fen 
Osier  Hampson  (eds.),  Securing  Europe's  Future.  London:  Groom 
Helm,  1986. 

De  Geer-Hancock,  Yvonne.  Aldndskhet:  Nations  by gget  pa  ''Fredens 

oer.'^  Mariehamn,  Finland:  Alands  Tidnings-Tryckeri,  1986. 
Elder,  Niel,  Alastair  H.  Thomas,  and  David  Arter.  Tlie  Consensual 

Democracies.'^  The  Government  and  Politics  of  the  Scandinavian  States. 

Oxford:  Martin  Robertson,  1982. 
Enckell,  Arvid.  Democratic  Finland.  London:  Herbert  Joseph,  1948. 
Erickson,  Karen.  "The  Gomparative  Soviet  Periphery:  Iran  and 

Finland,"  Survey  [London],  29,  No.  3,  Autumn  1986,  112-28. 
Eriksson,  Gosta.  Dagspressen  i  Norden.  (Acta  Academiae  Aboensis, 

Series  A,  60,  No.  2.)  Turku,  Finland:  Abo  Akademi,  1981. 
Farley,  Jonathan.  "The  EEG— Towards  2000  AD,"  The  Round 

Table  [London],  No.  302,  April  1987,  175-83. 
FarreU,  Martin  F.  "Republic  of  Finland."  Pages  305-18  in  George 

E.  Delury  (ed.).  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems  and  Parties. 

New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1983. 


405 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Faurby,  lb.  "Decision  Structures  and  Domestic  Sources  of  Nordic 
Foreign  Policies."  Pages  33-71  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.),  Foreign 
Policies  of  Northern  Europe.  Boulder:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

Fields,  Donald.  "Finland:  How  Much  Self-Censorship  Remains?" 
Index  on  Censorship  [London],  11,  No.  2,  April  1982,  15-19. 

Finland.  Centrad  Statistical  Office  of  Finland.  Statistical  Yearbook  of 
Finland,  1987.  Helsinki:  1987. 

 .  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  i^mm^^  Z)e'^armflm^w/P(9/2^.  Hel- 
sinki: Government  Printing  Centre,  1985. 

 Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Nordic  Nuclear-Weapon  Free 

Zone.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1987. 

 .  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  Finnish  International  Devel- 
opment Agency  (FINNIDA).  Finland's  Development  Assistance 
1985,  Annual  Report.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre, 
1986. 

 Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs.  Press  and  Cultural  Centre. 

Finnish  Press  Laws.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre, 
1984. 

 .  Ministry  of  Justice.  Making  and  Applying  Law  in  Finland. 

Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1983. 

 National  Board  of  Survey.  The  Atlas  of  Finland:  Public 

Administration.  (Folio  311.)  Helsinki:  1978. 

 Parliament,  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  and  Ministry  of 

Justice.  The  Constitution  Act  of  Finland,  Parliament  Act,  Procedure  of 
Parliament.  Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1984. 

The  Finnish  Newspaper  Publishers  Association.  Facts  about  Finnish 
Newspapers.  Helsinki:  1985. 

 The  Press  in  Finland.  Helsinki:  1979. 

Garfinkle,  Adam  M.  ''Finlandization":  A  Map  to  a  Metaphor.  (Mono- 
graph No.  24.)  Philadelphia:  Foreign  Policy  Research  Institute, 
1978. 

Gilberg,  Trond,  George  K.  Osborn,  William  J.  Taylor,  Jr.,  and 
John  R.  Fairlamb.  "The  Soviet  Union  and  Northern  Europe," 
Problems  of  Communism,  30,  March-April  1981,  1-24. 

Gronick,  Ritva.  "The  Social  and  Politic2il  Role  of  Women  in  Fin- 
land." Pages  52-64  in  Clive  Archer  and  Stephen  Maxwell  (eds.). 
The  Nordic  Model:  Studies  in  Public  Policy  Innovation.  Westmead, 
Farnborough,  Hampshire,  United  Kingdom:  Gower,  1980. 

Grothe,  Peter.  "Finland."  Pages  482-86  in  Richard  F.  Staar  (ed.). 
Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs,  1986.  Stanford:  Hoover 
Institution  Press,  1986. 

Gustafsson,  Henrik.  "The  Aland  Islands."  Pages  201-07  in  Erik 
Allardt  (ed.),  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det  Dcinske  Selskab, 
1981. 


406 


Bibliography 


Haavio-Mannila,  Elina.  "How  Women  Become  Political  Actors: 
Female  Candidates  in  Finnish  Elections,"  Scandinavian  Political 
Studies  [Oslo]  2,  No.  4,  1979,  351-71. 

Haavio-Mannila,  Elina,  Rita  Liljestrom,  and  Magdalena  Soko- 
lowska.  "The  State,  the  Family,  and  the  Position  of  Women  in 
the  Nordic  Countries  and  Poland. "  Pages  69-90  in  Risto  Alapuro 
et  al.  (eds.).  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik 
Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 

Hakovirta,  Harto.  "The  International  System  and  Neutrality  in 
Europe  1946—1980—1990."  Pages  39-48  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.), 
Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of 
International  Affairs,  1980. 

 .  "Mauno  Koivisto's  Presidency  and  the  Question  of 

Changes  in  Finland's  Foreign  Policy,"  Osterreichische  Zeitschrift 
fiir  Aussenpolitik  [Vienna],  23,  No.  2,  1983,  95-104. 

 _.  "Neutral  States  and  Bloc-based  Integration,"  Cooperation 

and  Conflict  [Oslo],  13,  No.  2,  June  1978,  109-32. 

 "The  Nordic  Neutrads  in  Western  European  Integration: 

Current  Pressures,  Restraints,  and  Options,"  Cooperation  and  Con- 
flict [Oslo],  22,  No.  4,  December  1987,  265-73. 

 "The  Soviet  Union  and  the  Varieties  of  Neutrality  in 

Western  Europe,"  World  Politics ,  35,  No.  4,  July  1983,  563-85. 

Hardis,  Arne.  Braender  naboens  vaeg — er  din  egen  ifare.  Egtved,  Den- 
mark: Fredsbevaegelsens,  1986. 

Hartmann,  Jiirgen.  Politische  Profile  der  Westeuropdischen  Industriegesell- 
schaft.  Frankfurt:  Campus,  1984. 

Helander,  Voitto.  "A  Liberal-Corporatist  Sub-system  in  Action: 
The  Income  Policy  System  in  Finland."  Pages  163-87  in  Gerhard 
Lehmbruch  and  Philippe  C.  Schmitter  (eds.).  Patterns  of  Corporatist 
Policy-Making  London:  SAGE,  1982. 

Helander,  Voitto,  and  Dag  Anckar.  Consultation  and  Political  Cul- 
ture: Essays  on  the  Case  of  Finland.  (Commentationes  Scientiarum 
Socialium,  19.)  Helsinki:  The  Finnish  Society  of  Sciences  and 
Letters,  1983. 

Helenius,  Henrik.  " Socialdemokratin  i  Finland — klasskamp  och 
consensus."  Pages  151-75  Lennart  Svensson  (ed.),  De  nordiska 
arbetarekongresserna  under  100  dr.  Jonkoping,  Sweden:  SAMAK 
Arbetarrorelsens  Nordiska  Samarbetskommitte,  1986. 

Helenius,  Ralf.  "The  Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party."  Pages 
272-91  in  William  E.  Paterson  and  Alastair  H.  Thomas  (eds.). 
Social  Democratic  Parties  in  Western  Europe.  New  York:  St.  Mar- 
tin's Press,  1977. 

Hiden,  Mikael.  "The  Constitution."  Pages  39-59  in  Jaakko  Uotila 
(ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers 
Publishing,  1985. 


407 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


 The  Ombudsman  in  Finland:  The  First  Fifty  Years.  Berkeley: 

University  of  California  Press,  1973. 

Hoist,  Johan  Jorgen.  "A  Nuclear- Weapon-Free  Zone  in  the  Nor- 
dic Area."  Pages  5-13  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.),  Nuclear  Weapons 
and  Northern  Europe.  Helsinki:  The  Finnish  Institute  of  Interna- 
tional Affairs,  1983. 

 "The  Patterns  of  Nordic  Security,"  Z)a^^/w^,  113,  No.  2, 

Spring  1984,  195-225. 

Huopaniemi,  Jukka.  "The  Role  of  the  Parliament  of  Finland  in 
International  Relations."  Pages  61-69  in  Jussi  Jappinen  (ed.), 
The  Finnish  Parliament.  Jyvaskyla:  Gummerus,  1979. 

Hyvarinen,  Matti,  and  Jukka  Paastela.  The  Finnish  Communist  Party: 
The  Failure  of  Attempts  to  Modernize  a  CP.  (Occasional  Papers,  39.) 
Tampere,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  Science,  University 
of  Tampere,  1985. 

livonen,  Jyrki.  A  Ruling  Non-ruling  Communist  Party  in  the  West:  The 
Finnish  Communist  Party.  (Occasional  Papers,  32.)  Tampere,  Fin- 
land: Department  of  Political  Science,  University  of  Tampere. 
1983. 

 "State  or  Party?  The  Dilemma  of  Relations  Between  the 

Soviet  and  Finnish  Communist  Parties,"  yowrwa/  of  Communist 

Studies  [London],  2,  No.  1,  March  1986,  5-30. 
Jakobson,  Max.  "Der  Wandel  Europas  und  die  finnische  Politik," 

Europa-Archiv  [Bonn],  40,  No.  7,  April  10,  1985,  205-10. 

 .  Finland:  Myth  and  Reality.  Helsinki:  Otava,  1987. 

 Finnish  Neutrality:  A  Study  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy  Since  the 

Second  World  War.  New  York:  Praeger,  1969. 
 "Substance  and  Appearance:  YiiAdind,''  Foreign  Affairs,  58, 

No.  5,  Summer  1980,  1034-44. 
 .  "Turning-Point  in  Finland,"  Scandinavian  Review,  75, 

No.  4,  Winter  1987,  22-26. 
Jallinoja,  Riitta.  "Women's  Movement:  Finland."  Pages  638-40 

in  Byron  J.  Nordstrom  (ed.).  Dictionary  of  Scandinavian  History. 

Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 
Jansson,  Jan-Magnus.  "Language  Legislation."  Pages  77-89  in 

Jaako  Uotila  (ed.),  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki: 

Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

 Ledare.  Esbo,  Finland:  Hufvudstadsbladet,  1981. 

 '  'The  Role  of  the  Finnish  Presidency, ' '  Scandinavian  Review, 

75,  No.  4,  Winter  1987,  133-40. 
Joenniemi,  Pertti.  "Political  Parties  and  Foreign  Policy  in  Fin- 
land," Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  13,  No.  1,  March  1978, 

43-60. 

Johansen,  Jahn  Otto.  Finland — Det  Muliges  Kunst.  Olso:  J.W. 
Cappelen,  1983. 


408 


Bibliography 


 .  Sovjetunionen  og  Norden.  Oslo:  J.W.  Cappelen,  1986. 

Kalela,  Jaakko.  "Finsk  utrikes — och  sakerhetspolitik."  Pages  25-41 
in  Sven  Dahlin  and  Bjarne  Jensen  (eds.),  Udenrigs — og  sikkerhed- 
spolitik  i  Norden.  Copenhagen:  SOC,  1981. 

Karsh,  Efraim.  "Finland:  Adaptation  and  Conflict,"  International 
Affairs  [London],  62,  No.  2,  Spring  1986,  265-78. 

 "Geographical  Determinism:  Finnish  Neutrality  Revis- 
ited," Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  21,  No.  1,  March  1986, 
43-57. 

Karvonen,  Lauri.  "High-Level  Foreign  Policy  Coordination:  A 
Finnish  Example,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  19,  No.  2,  June 
1984,  135-55. 

Karvonen,  Lauri,  and  Sten  Berglund.  "Partier,  pengar,  demokrati. 
Det  offentliga  partistodets  effekter  i  Sverige  och  Finland."  Pages 
89-1 12  in  Dag  Anckar  and  Sten  Berglund  (eds.),  Planerad  demo- 
krati: Stryka  och  dilemma.  Turku,  Finland:  Abo  Akademi,  1980. 

Kennan,  George  F.  The  Cloud  of  Danger:  Current  Realities  of  American 
Foreign  Policy.  Boston:  Little,  Brown,  and  Company,  1977. 

Kiljunen,  Kimmo.  "Changing  Premises  of  Finnish  Development 
Co-operation  Policy."  Pages  25-33  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.),  Year- 
book of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  The  Finnish  Institute  of 
International  Affairs,  1982. 

 .  "Nordic — SADCC  Cooperation,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict 

[Oslo],  22,  No.  3,  September  1987,  153-67. 

Kirby,  D.G.  Finland  in  the  Twentieth  Century.  Minneapolis:  University 
of  Minnesota  Press,  1979. 

Kivikari,  Urpo.  "Finnish-Soviet  Economic  Relations — A  Special 
Case  of  East-West  Trade."  Pages  23-26  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.), 
Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of 
International  Affairs,  1985. 

Koivisto,  Mauno.  Landmarks:  Finland  in  the  World.  Helsinki:  Kir- 
jayhtyma,  1985. 

Komissarov,  Yuri.  "USSR-Finland:  A  New  Quality  of  Peaceful 
Coexistence,"  International  Affairs  [Moscow],  No.  1,  January 
1988,  77-85. 

Korhonen,  Keijo.  "The  Ghost  of 'Finlandization'  and  Finnish  Neu- 
trality in  a  Strife-Torn  World,"  Scandinavian  Review,  75,  No.  4, 
Winter  1987,  13-22. 

 .  "Das  Madrider  KSZE — Folgetreffen  als  Herausforderung 

an  das  neutrale  Finnland,"  Europa-Archiv  [Bonn],  35,  No.  20, 
October  25,  1980,  625-34. 

Koskimies,  Jaakko.  "Finland."  Pages  143-67  in  Albert  A.  Blum  (ed.), 
International  Handbook  of  Industrial  Relations:  Contemporary  Develop- 
ments and  Research.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1981. 


409 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Kosonen,  Pekka.  "Public  Expenditure  in  the  Nordic  Nation 
States — The  Source  of  Prosperity  or  Crisis?"  Pages  108-23  in 
Risto  Alapuro  et  al.  (eds.),  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspective: 
Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press,  1985. 

Krokfors,  Klaus.  "Finland's  Activity  in  the  CSCE."  Pages  147-66 
Kari  Mottola  (ed.),  Ten  Years  After  Helsinki:  The  Making  of  the  Eu- 
ropean Security  Regime.  Boulder:  Westview  Press,  1986. 

Krosby,  H.  Peter.  "Finland  After  Kekkonen,"  Current  History,  81, 
No.  478,  November  1982,  381-83,  394,  400. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Finland."  Pages  331-39  in  George 
Thomas  Kurian  (ed.).  World  Press  Encyclopedia.  New  York:  Facts 
On  File,  1982. 

Larson,  Janerik,  and  Mats  Kockberg.  Det  andre  Finland.  Stockholm: 
Timbro,  1984. 

Liebowitz,  Ronald  D.  "Finlandization:  An  Analysis  of  the  Soviet 
Union's  'Domination'  of  Finland,"  Political  Geography  Quarterly 
[London],  2,  No.  4,  October  1983,  275-87. 

Lilius,  Carl-Gustaf.  "Self-censorship  in  Finland:  Does  It  Improve 
or  Damage  Finnish-Soviet  Relations?"  Index  on  Censorship  [Lon- 
don], 4,  No.  1,  Spring  1975,  19-25. 

Lindberg,  Steve.  "Towards  a  Nordic  Nuclear-Weapons-Free 
Zone."  Pages  28-38  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Finnish 
Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International  Affairs, 
1980. 

Lindman,  Sven.  Statsskick  och  Fdrvaltning  i  Finland.  Helsinki:  Soder- 
strom,  1959. 

Luebbert,  Gregory  M.  Comparative  Democracy:  Policymaking  and 
Governing  Coalitions  in  Europe  and  Israel.  New  York:  Columbia 
University  Press,  1986. 

Maentakanen,  Erkki.  "Western  and  Eastern  Europe  in  Finnish 
Trade  Policy,  1957-1974:  Towards  a  Comprehensive  Solution?" 
Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  13,  No.  1,  March  1978,  21-41. 

Makela,  Jaakko.  "The  Radical  Left  and  the  Communist  Party  in 
Finnish  Politics."  Pages  153-86  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael 
Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Polit- 
ics. Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  University 
of  Turku,  1984. 

Maude,  George.  "Conflict  and  Cooperation:  The  Nordic  Nuclear- 
Free  Zone  Today,"  Conflict  and  Cooperation  [Oslo],  18,  No.  4, 
December  1983,  238-43. 

 The  Finnish  Dilemma:  Neutrality  in  the  Shadow  of  Power.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  for  the  Royal  Institute  of  Inter- 
national Affairs,  1976. 


410 


Bibliography 


 "The  Finnish  Dilemma  Today:  The  Defence  of  Lapland. ' ' 

Pages  32-37  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.),  Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Pol- 
icy. Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1983. 

 "The  Further  Shores  of  Finlandization,"  Cooperation  and 

Conflict  [Oslo],  17,  No.  1,  March  1982,  3-16. 

 .  "Has  Finland  Been  Finlandized?"  Pages  43-65  in  George 

Ginsburgs  and  Alvin  Z.  Rubinstein  (eds.),  Soviet  Foreign  Policy 
Toward  Western  Europe.  New  York:  Praeger,  1978. 

 .  "Koivisto,  Mauno  Henrik."  Pages  336-37  in  Byron  J. 

Nordstrom  (ed.).  Dictionary  of  Scandinavian  History.  Westport,  Con- 
necticut: Greenwood  Press,  1986. 

Meinander,  Ragnar.  Hur  Finland Styres.  (Verdandis  Skriftserie,  8.) 
Stockholm:  Svenska  Bokforlaget  Bonniers,  1957. 

Mottola,  Kari.  Finland:  The  Case  for  Confidence-Building  and  Disen- 
gagement. Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International  Affairs, 
1985. 

 .  "Finnish  Foreign  Policy  in  the  Koivisto  Era — The  First 

Two  Years."  Pages  2-10  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Fin- 
nish Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International 
Affairs,  1983. 

 "The  Politics  of  Neutrality  and  Defence:  Finnish  Secur- 
ity Policy  Since  the  Early  1970s,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo], 
17,  No.  4,  December  1982,  287-313. 

Mylly ,  Juhani.  "The  Agrarian  Center  Party  in  Finnish  Politics. ' ' 
Pages  98-120  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.).  Po- 
litical Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Fin- 
land: Department  of  Political  History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

 "The  Emergence  of  the  Finnish  Multi-party  System.  A 

Comparison  with  Developments  in  Scandinavia,  1870-1920." 
Pages  9-27  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.).  Polit- 
ical Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Fin- 
land: Department  of  Political  History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Mylly,  Juhani,  and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Fin- 
land: Essays  in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Finland:  Department 
of  Political  History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Nevakivi,  Jukka.  "Finland  and  the  Cold  War,"  Scandinavian  Jour- 
nal of  History  [Stockholm],  No.  3,  211-24. 

Norderval,  Ingunn.  "Party  and  Legislative  Participation  among 
Scandinavian  Women,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  8, 
No.  4,  October  1985,  71-89. 

Noreen,  Erik.  "The  Nordic  BEilance:  A  Security  Policy  Concept 
in  Theory  and  Practice,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  18, 
No.  1,  March  1983,  43-56. 


411 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Nortamo,  Simopekka.  "Press  and  the  Relations  of  the  Media  with 
the  Government,  the  President,  and  the  Pohtical  Parties,"  New 
Yorkin  Uutiset,  September  18,  1984,  8. 

Nousiainen,  Jaakko.  The  Finnish  Political  System.  Cambridge:  Har- 
vard University  Press,  1971. 

Numminen,  Jaakko.  Hur  Finland Regeras .  Helsinki:  Holger  Schildts 
Forlag,  1985. 

Nyberg,  Rene.  "Security  Dilemmas  in  Scandinavia.  Evaporated 

Nuclear  Options  and  Indigenous  Conventional  Capabilities," 

Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  19,  No.  1,  March  1984,  59-82. 
Oksanen,  Matti.  Finnish  Media  Utilization,  1986.  Vol.  35.  Helsinki: 

Finnish  Broadcasting  Company,  1986. 
Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development.  Wage 

Policies  and  Collective  Bargaining  Developments  in  Finland,  Ireland,  and 

Norway.  Paris:  1979. 
0rvik,  Karen  Erickson.  "Finnish  Foreign  Policy  and  the  Kekkonen 

Legacy,"  Survey  [London],  27,  No.  3,  Autumn-Winter  1983, 

152-64. 

Paavonen,  Tapani.  "The  Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party  Since 
1918."  Pages  137-52  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael  Berry 
(eds.),  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics. 
Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  University  of 
Turku,  1984. 

Pehkonen,  Juhani.  Parties  and  Central  Organizations  of  Trade  Unions: 
Some  Preliminary  Analyses  and  Comparisons  of  Their  Functional  Precon- 
ditions: The  Case  of  Finland.  (Occasional  Papers,  28.)  Tampere, 
Finland:  Department  of  Political  Science,  University  of  Tam- 
pere, 1981. 

Pesonen,  Pertti.  "Finland:  The  Country,  the  People,  and  the  Po- 
litical System."  Pages  11-25  in  Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.),  The  Finnish 
Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

 "Finland:  Party  Support  in  a  Fragmented  System. ' '  Pages 

271-314  in  Richard  Rose  (ed.).  Electoral  Behavior:  A  Comparative 
Handbook.  New  York:  The  Free  Press,  1974. 

Pesonen,  Pertti,  and  Onni  Rantala.  "Finnland."  Pages  141-57 
in  Joachim  Raschke  (ed.).  Die  Politischen  Parteien  in  Westeuropa. 
Reinbek  bei  Hamburg:  Rowohlt  Taschenbuch,  1978. 

 "Outlines  of  the  Finnish  Party  System."  Pages  211-27 

in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al.  (eds.).  Small  States  in  Comparative  Perspec- 
tive: Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian  University  Press, 
1985. 

Pesonen,  Pertti,  and  Alastair  Thomas.  "Coalition  Formation  in 
Scandinavia."  Pages  59-96  in  Vernon  Bogdanor  (ed.).  Coalition 


412 


Bibliography 


Government  in  Western  Europe.  London:  Heinemann  Educa- 
tional Books,  1983. 
Petersson,  Olof.  Folkstyrelse  och  statsmakt  i  Norden.  Uppsala,  Sweden: 
Diskurs,  1984. 

Pulzer,  Peter.  "The  Par2ilysis  of  the  Centre-Left,"  Political  Quar- 
terly [London],  58,  No.  4,  October-December  1987,  378-88. 

Punasalo,  V.L  The  Reality  of  ''Finlandisation'':  Living  Under  the  Soviet 
Shadow.  (Conflict  Studies,  93.)  London:  Institute  for  the  Study 
of  Conflict,  1978. 

Puntila,  L.A.  "The  Unicameral  Legislature  of  Finland."  Pages 
21-31  injussi  Jappinen  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Parliament.  Jyvkskyla., 
Finland:  Gummerus,  1979. 

Revall,  Pentti.  "Seven  Centuries  of  Finnish  Parliamentary  Insti- 
tutions." Pages  10-13  in  Jussi  Jappinen  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Parlia- 
ment. Jyvaskyla,  Finland:  Gummerus,  1979. 

Rosas,  Allan.  Statsforvaltningerns  Organisation.  (Publikationsserie  B, 
27.)  Helsinki:  Statens  Utbildningscentral,  1984. 

Rotkirch,  Holger.  "The  Demilitarization  and  Neutrzdization  of  the 
Aland  Islands:  A  Regime  'in  European  Interests'  Withstand- 
ing Changing  Circumstances,"  yowrwfl/  of  Peace  Research  [Oslo], 
23,  No.  4,  December  1986,  357-76. 

Rudebeck,  Lars.  "Nordic  Policies  Toward  the  Third  World." 
Pages  143-76  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.),  Foreign  Policies  of  North- 
ern Europe.  Boulder:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

Saario,  Voitto.  "Finland."  Pages  1-52  in  Albert  P.  Blaustein  and 
Gisbert  H.  Flanz  (eds.),  Constitutions  of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry, 
New  York:  Oceana,  1982. 

Salervo,  Olavi.  "The  Finnish  Parliament  Today."  Pages  43-49 
in  Jussi  Jappinen  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Parliament.  Jyvaskyla:  Gum- 
merus, 1979. 

Schneppen,  Heinz.  "Nordeuropa  zwischen  Integration  und  Iso- 
lation," Europa-Archiv  [Bonn],  42,  No.  9,  May  10,  1987,  269-76. 

Seppanen,  Paavo.  "Social  Change  in  Finland:  An  Empirical  Per- 
spective." Pages  242-57  in  Risto  Alapuro  et  al.  (eds.).  Small  States 
in  Comparative  Perspective:  Essays  for  Erik  Allardt.  Oslo:  Norwegian 
University  Press,  1985. 

Singleton,  Fred.  "Carry  On,  Finland?"  World  Today  [London], 
43,  No.  8-9,  August-September  1987,  130-31. 

 .  "Finland  Between  East  and  West,"  World  Today  [Lon- 
don], 34,  No.  8,  August  1978,  321-32. 

 "Finland's  Functioning  'Finlandisation',"  World  Today 

[London],  41,  No.  11,  November  1985,  208-10. 

 "The  Myth  of '  Finlandisation' , ' '  International  Affairs  [Lon- 
don], 57,  No.  2,  Spring  1981,  270-85. 


413 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

Sjoblom,  Paul  (ed.).  "Broadcasting  in  Finland:  Long  Traditions," 
Suomen  Silta  [Helsinki],  No.  1,  1987,  36-38. 

Smotkine,  Henri.  La  Finlande.  (Que  sais-je.  No.  2272.)  Paris: 
Presses  Universitaires  de  France,  1986. 

Soikkanen,  Hannu.  "Revisionism,  Reformism  and  the  Finnish 
Labour  Movement  Before  the  First  World  War."  Pages  121-36 
in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael  Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in 
Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Politics.  Turku,  Finland:  Depart- 
ment of  Political  History,  University  of  Turku,  1984. 

Soikkanen,  Timo.  "Changing  Bourgeois  Parties  in  a  Changing 
Finnish  Society."  Pages  58-97  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael 
Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Poli- 
tics. Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  Univer- 
sity of  Turku,  1984. 

 .  "The  Development  of  Political  Parties:  An  Introduction 

and  Overview."  Pages  28-34  in  Juhani  Mylly  and  R.  Michael 
Berry  (eds.).  Political  Parties  in  Finland:  Essays  in  History  and  Poli- 
tics. Turku,  Finland:  Department  of  Political  History,  Univer- 
sity of  Turku,  1984. 

Solem,  Erik.  The  Nordic  Council  and  Scandinavian  Integration.  (Prae- 
ger  Special  Studies  in  InternationcJ  Politics  and  Government.) 
New  York:  Praeger,  1977. 

Sorsa,  Kalevi.  "Finnland — ein  europaisches  Land,"  Europdische 
Rundschau  [Vienna],  16,  No.  1,  Winter  1988,  19-25. 

 "Historical  Perspectives  on  Finland's  Foreign  Affairs," 

Scandinavian  Review,  75,  No.  4,  Winter  1987,  7-12. 

 " Socialdemokraterna  och  nedrustningen. "  Pages  79-86 

in  Sven  Dahlin  and  Bjarne  Jensen  (eds.),  Udenrigs-  og  sikkerhed- 
spolitik  i  Nor  den.  Copenhagen:  Forlaget  SOC,  1981. 

Spring,  Seija,  and  D.W.  Spring.  "The  Finnish  Communist  Party: 
Two  Parties  in  One."  Pages  172-204  in  David  Childs  (ed.).  The 
Changing  Face  of  Western  Communism.  London:  Croom  Hekn,  1980. 

Stahlberg,  Krister.  "Forvaltning  som  borda,"  Finsk  tidskrift  [Turku, 
Finland],  219-20,  No.  4,  1986,  141-45. 

Stalvant,  Carl-Einar.  "Nordic  Policies  Toward  International  Eco- 
nomic Cooperation."  Pages  107-42  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.). 
Foreign  Policies  of  Northern  Europe.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview 
Press,  1982. 

Stenius,  Yrsa.  Vdr  Tids  Hjdlter.  Porvoo,  Finland:  Soderstrom,  1986. 

Suhonen,  Pertti.  "Finland."  Pages  235-56  in  Peter  H.  Merkl  (ed.). 
Western  European  Party  Systems.  New  York:  Free  Press,  1980. 

Sundberg,  Jan.  "Communist  Party:  Finland."  Pages  91-92  in 
Byron  J.  Nordstrom  (ed.),  Dictionary  of  Scandinavian  History.  West- 
port,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1986. 


414 


Bibliography 


 "Demassified  Mass  Parties  or  Overloaded  Cadre  Parties? 

The  Impact  of  Parties  on  Electoral  Outcome  in  Finland,"  Scan- 
dinavian Political  Studies  [Oslo],  8,  No.  4,  1985,  299-317. 

Sundelius,  Bengt.  Coping  with  TransnationaJism  in  Northern 
Europe,"  West  European  Politics  [London],  5,  No.  2,  May  1980, 
219-29. 

 .  Managing  Transnationalism  in  Northern  Europe.  Boulder, 

Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1978. 

 "The  Nordic  Model  of  Neighborly  Cooperation."  Pages 

177-96  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.).  Foreign  Policies  of  Northern  Europe. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

 "North  European  Foreign  Policies  in  a  Comparative  Per- 
spective." Pages  197-213  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.).  Foreign  Policies 
of  Northern  Europe.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

 "Trans-governmental  Interactions  in  the  Nordic  Region," 

Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  12,  No.  2,  June  1977,  63-85. 

Thomas,  Alastair  H.  "Social  Democracy  in  Scandinavia:  Can 
Dominance  Be  Regained?"  Pages  172-222  in  William  E.  Pater- 
son  and  Alastair  H.  Thomas  (eds.).  The  Future  of  Social  Demo- 
cracy. Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1986. 

Timonen,  Pertti.  "The  Finnish  Presidential  Election."  Pages  19-24 
in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.),  Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki: 
Finnish  Institute  of  Internationcd  Affairs,  1981. 

Tornudd,  Klaus.  The  Electoral  System  of  Finland.  London:  Hugh 
Evelyn,  1968. 

 Finland  and  the  International  Norms  of  Human  Rights.  (Inter- 
national Studies  in  Human  Rights.)  Dordrecht,  The  Netherlands: 
Martinus  Nijhoff,  1986. 

 "Finnische  Sicherheitspolitik, "  Europd-Archiv  [Bonn],  34, 

No.  23,  December  10,  1979,  731-36. 

Turner,  Barry,  and  Gunilla  Nordquist.  The  Other  European  Com- 
munity: Integration  and  Co-operation  in  Nordic  Europe.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1982. 

Uotila,  Jaakko  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki, 
Finland:  Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

 "Fundamental  Rights  of  the  Citizens."  Pages  60-67  in 

Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.),  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki: 
Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

 "The  Leg2d  System  of  Finland."  Pages  73-97  in  Kenneth 

Robert  Redden,  Modern  Legal  Systems  Cyclopedia.  Buffalo,  New 
York:  William  S.  Hein,  1984. 

Vaahtoranta,  Tapani.  "Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  Nordic  Coun- 
tries: Nuclear  Status  and  Policies."  Pages  53-66  in  Kari  Mottola 


415 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

(ed.),  Nuclear  Weapons  and  Northern  Europe.  Helsinki:  Finnish 
Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1983. 
Valkonen,  Marjaana.  The  Central  Organization  of  Finnish  Trade  Unions, 
1907-82.  Helsinki:  Central  Organization  of  Finnish  Trade 
Unions,  1985. 

Vayrynen,  Paavo.  "Finnish  Foreign  Policy  in  Today's  World," 
Aussenpolitik  (English  edition.)  [Hamburg],  30,  No.  1,  First 
Quarter  1979,  3-14. 

 .  "Nordic  Aspects  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy, ' '  Scandinavian 

Review,  75,  No.  1,  Spring  1987,  22-25. 

Vayrynen,  Raimo.  "The  Evolution  of  Finland's  Foreign  Policy 
since  the  End  of  the  Second  World  War."  Pages  132-55  in  Karl 
E.  Birnbaum  and  Hanspeter  Neuhold  (eds.).  Neutrality  andNon- 
Alignment  in  Europe.  Vienna:  Wilhelm  Braumiiller  Universitats- 
Verlagsbuchhandlung,  1982. 

 "Finland's  Role  in  Western  Policy  Since  the  Second  World 

War,"  Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Oslo],  12,  No.  2,  June  1977, 
87-108. 

 "Kernevaben  og  Finlands  udenrigspolitik. "  Pages  18-57 

in  Bertel  Heurlin  (ed.),  Kernevdbenpolitik  i  Norden.  Copenhagen: 
Det  Sikkerheds  og  Nedrustningspolitiske  Udvalg,  1983. 

 "Military  Alliance,  Nuclear  Deterrence  and  Nuclear- 
Weapon-Free  Zones."  Pages  47-52  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Nuclear 
Weapons  and  Northern  Europe.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  Inter- 
national Affairs,  1983. 

 ' ' Technology,  Politics ,  and  Integration  in  Western  Europe . ' ' 

Pages  27-34  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Pol- 
icy. Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1985. 

Vesa,  Unto.  "  'The  Crisis  of  the  UN'  and  Finland."  Pages  17-23 
in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook  of  Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki: 
Finnish  Institute  of  International  Affairs,  1982. 

 "Finland  and  the  New  International  Economic  Order," 

Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Os\6\,  14,  No.  2-3,  June-September  1979, 
105-20. 

Viitasalo,  Mikko.  "Challenges  of  New  Arms  Technology  to  Nor- 
dic Security."  Pages  13-17  in  Kari  Mottola  (ed.).  Yearbook  of 
Finnish  Foreign  Policy.  Helsinki:  Finnish  Institute  of  International 
Affairs,  1985. 

Vilkkonen,  Eero.  "The  Administrative  System."  Pages  68-76  in 

Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki: 

Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 
 "Court  Organization  and  Procedure."  Pages  90-100  in 

Jaakko  Uotila  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d  ed.)  Helsinki: 

Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 


416 


Bibliography 


Volanen,  Risto.  "Finland."  Pages  231-44  in  Tore  Modeen  (ed.), 
Recruiting  for  High  Offices  in  the  Central  Administration.  Tampere, 
Finland:  Department  of  Administrative  Sciences,  University  of 
Tampere,  1983. 

Wahlback,  Krister.  'Torvaltning,  domstolar,  kommuner."  Pages 
167-74  in  Ingemar  Lindblad  et  al.  (eds.),  Politik  i  Norden.  Stock- 
holm: Liber,  1984. 

 .  "The  Nordic  Region  in  Twentieth-Century  European 

Politics."  Pages  9-32  in  Bengt  Sundelius  (ed.).  Foreign  Policies 
of  Northern  Europe.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1982. 

 "Parlament,   regering,   statschef."   Pages   137-66  in 

Ingemar  Lindblad  et  al.  (eds.),  Politik  i  Norden.  Stockholm:  Liber, 
1984. 

Wendt,  Frantz.  Cooperation  in  the  Nordic  Countries:  Achievements  and 
Obstacles.  Stockholm:  Almqvist  and  Wiksell  International,  1981. 

 .  "Nordic  Cooperation."  Pages  653-76  in  Erik  Allardt  et  al. 

(eds.),  Nordic  Democracy.  Copenhagen:  Det  Danske  Selskab,  1981. 

Westman,  Ulla-Stina.  "Finland:  Fran  Censur  til  Sjalvcensur." 
Pages  97-132  in  Einar  0stgaard  (ed.),  Pressen  i  Norden.  Oslo: 
Gyldendal  Norsk,  1978. 

Wiberg,  Matti.  "'Wrong  Persons  Are  Making  Right  Decisions 
Without  Hearing  Us':  Political  Trust,  Responsiveness  of  Poli- 
ticians and  Satisfaction  with  Governmental  Policies  in  Finland," 
Scandinavian  Political  Studies  [Oslo],  9,  No.  2,  1986,  141-56. 

Wiklund,  Claes.  "Nordiskt  samarbete."  Pages  207-18  in  Inge- 
mar Lindblad  et  al  (eds.),  Politik  i Norden.  Stockholm:  Liber,  1984. 

 "Tre  sjalvstyrande  osamfund:  Faroarna,  Gronland  och 

Aland."  Pages  195-206  in  Ingemar  Lindblad  et  al.  (eds.),  Poli- 
tik i  Norden.  Stockholm:  Liber,  1984. 

Woker,  Daniel.  Die  skandinavischen  Neutralen:  Prinzip  und  Praxis  der 
schwedischen  und  derfinnischen  Neutralitdt.  Bern:  Paul  Haupt,  1978. 

Zilliacus,  Jutta.  "Grannlandets  Ansvar."  Svensk  Tidskrift  [Stock- 
holm], 76,  No.  1,  1989,  33-37. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  also  were  used  in 
the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Christian  Science  Monitor;  The  Economist 
[London];  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Finland  [Lon- 
don]; Financial  Times  [London];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information 
Service,  Daily  Report:  West  Europe;  The  Guardian  [London];  Hufvud- 
stadsbladet  [Helsinki];  Joint  Publications  Research  Service,  West 
Europe  Report;  Keesing's  Contemporary  Archives  [London];  Le  Monde 
[Paris] ;  Neue  Zurcher  Zeitung  [Zurich] ;  New  York  Times;  and  Washington 
Post.) 


417 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Chapter  5 

Andrade,  John.  World  Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces.  New  York:  Stock- 
ton Press,  1985. 

Anttila,  Inkeri.  "Criminal  Justice  and  Trends  in  Criminal  Pol- 
icy. ' '  Pages  232-42  in  Jaakko  UotUa  (ed.),  The  Finnish  Legal  Sys- 
tem. (2d  ed.)  Helsinki:  Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing  Company, 
1985. 

Ausland,  John  C.  Nordic  Security  and  the  Great  Powers.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 

Berner,  Orjan.  Soviet  Policies  Toward  the  Nordic  Countries.  Lanham, 
Maryland:  University  Press  of  America,  1986. 

Bjol,  Erling.  Nordic  Security.  (Adelphi  Papers,  No.  181).  London: 
International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies,  1983. 

Doepfner,  Andreas.  "Training  UN  Peace  Troops  in  Finland," 
Swiss  Review  of  World  Affairs,  38,  No.  12,  March  1989,  11-13. 

Finland.  Eduskunta.  Report  of  the  Third  Parliamentary  Defence  Com- 
mittee. Helsinki:  Government  Printing  Centre,  1981. 

Finland.  Ministry  of  Defense.  Finnish  National  Defence.  Helsinki: 
Generad  Headquarters  Information  Section,  1983. 

 Ministry  of  Defense.  The  Frontier  Guard  in  Finland.  Hel- 
sinki: Headquarters  of  the  Frontier  Guard,  1985. 

"Finnish  Air  Force."  Pages  77-79  in  International  Air  Forces  and  Mili- 
tary Aircraft  Directory.  Stapleford  Airfield,  Essex,  England:  No  pub- 
lisher, 1988. 

Finnish  Chapter  of  the  International  Police  Association.  The  Police 

of  Finland.  Helsinki:  No  date. 
Finnish  Military  History  Commission.  (Ed.,  Ermel  Kanninen  et 

al.)  Aspects  of  Security:  The  Case  of  Independent  Finland.  Helsinki: 

Government  Printing  Centre,  1985. 
Friberg,  Ralf  (ed.).  Handbok  i  Finlands  Sdkerhetpolitik.  Helsinki: 

Planeringskommissionen  for  forsvarinformation,  1984. 
Gilberg,  Trond.  "Finland."  Pages  37-62  in  William  J.  Taylor, 

Jr.,  and  Paul  M.  Cole  (eds.),  Nordic  Defense:  Comparative  Decision 

Making.  Lexington,  Massachusetts:  Lexington  Books,  1985. 
Gilberg,  Trond,  George  K.  Osborn,  William  J.  Taylor,  Jr.,  and 

John  R.  Fairlamb.  "The  Soviet  Union  and  Northern  Europe," 

Problems  of  Communism,  30,  March- April  1981,  1-24. 
Ingelton,  Roy  D.  Police  of  the  World.  New  York:  Charles  Scribner's 

Sons,  1979. 

International  Institute  for  Strategic  Studies.  The  Military  Balance, 

1988-89.  London:  1988. 
Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1988-89.  London:  Jane's,  1988. 


418 


Bibliography 


Jervell,  Sverre,  and  Kare  Nyblom  (eds.).  The  Military  Buildup  in 
the  High  North:  American  and  Nordic  Perspectives.  Lanham,  Maryland: 
University  Press  of  America,  1986. 

Jokinen,  Lauri.  "Ausbildung  und  Fiihrung — Finnland:  Grund- 
ausbildung  der  Offiziere, ' '  Allgemeine  Schweizerische  Militdrzeitschrift 
[Frauenfeld,  Switzerland],  No.  10,  October  1985,  590-94. 

Kaarnola,  Jorma.  ''Die  strategische  Lage  Finnlands,"  Allgemeine 
Schweizerische  Militdrzeitschrift  [Frauenfeld,  Switzerland],  No.  10, 
October  1985,  553-60. 

Kanninen,  Ermel,  and  Vilho  Tervasmaki.  "Development  of  Fin- 
land's National  Defence  After  the  Second  World  War,"  Revue 
Internationale  d'Histoire  Militaire  [Vaasa,  Finland],  No.  62,  62, 
1985,  267-293. 

Keegan,  John.  ''Finland."  Pages  183-86  in  John  Keegan  (ed.), 
World  Armies.  Detroit:  Gale  Research,  1983. 

Kirby,  D.G.  Finland  in  the  Twentieth  Century:  A  History  and  an  In- 
terpretation. Minneapolis:  University  of  Minnesota  Press,  1979. 

Niska,  Juhani  A.  Finland's  Security  and  Defense  Policy:  Origins  and  Cur- 
rent Developments.  Carlisle  Barracks,  Pennsylvania:  US  Army  War 
College,  1986. 

Nyberg,  Rene.  "Security  Dilemmas  in  Scandinavia:  Evaporated 
Nuclear  Options  and  Indigenous  Conventioncd  Capabilities," 
Cooperation  and  Conflict  [Stockholm],  19,  1984,  59-82. 

O'Dwyer,  Gerard.  "Finland's  Role  on  the  Northern  Front,^'  Jane's 
Defence  Weekly  [London],  9,  No.  19,  May  14,  1988,  956-9. 

Oikeuspoliittinen  Tutkimuslaitos  (Research  Institute  on  Legal  Pol- 
icy). "Abstract:  Criminality  in  Finland,  1986."  Pages  163-71 
in  Rikollisuustilanne,  1986.  Helsinki:  1987. 

Ries,  Tomas.  Cold  Will:  The  Defence  of  Finland.  London:  Brassey's 
Defence,  1988. 

 "Finland's  Armed  Forces — Isolated  but  Unbowed,"  In- 
ternational Defense  Review  [Geneva],  17,  No.  3,  March  1984, 
263-70. 

 "Finland's  New  Jager  Brigade  90,"  International  Defense 

Review  [Geneva],  21,  No.  8,  August  1988,  885-6. 

 "Reorganization  of  the  Finnish  Defense  Forces,"  Inter- 
national Defense  Review  [Geneva],  19,  No.  4,  April  1986,  408-9. 

Robinson,  Anthony.  "The  Finnish  Air  Force,"  Armed  Forces  [Shep- 
perton,  Surrey,  United  Kingdom],  April  1984,  140-43. 

Stover,  William  J.  Military  Politics  in  Finland:  The  Development  of 
Governmental  Control  Over  the  Armed  Forces.  Lanham,  Maryland: 
University  Press  of  America,  1981. 

United  States.  Department  of  Defense.  Soviet  Military  Power — An 
Assessment  of  the  Threat,  1988.  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 


419 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices, 1987.  Washington:  GPO,  1988. 

Uotila,  Jaakko  (ed.).  The  Finnish  Legal  System.  (2d.  ed.)  Helsinki: 
Finnish  Lawyers  Publishing,  1985. 

Vayrynen,  Raimo.  "The  Neutrality  of  Finland."  Pages  132-65 
in  Karl  E.  Birnbaum  and  Hanspeter  Neuhold  (eds.),  Neutrality 
and  Non-Alignment  in  Europe.  Vienna:  Wilhelm  Braumiiller,  1982. 

 .  "Die  finnische  Verteidigungspolitik  und  ihre  militarische 

Infrastruktur."  Pages  141-66  in  Dieter  S.  Lutz  and  Annemarie 
Grosse-Jiitte  (eds.),  Neutralitdt — Fine  Alternative?  Baden-Baden, 
West  Germany:  Nomos,  1982. 

Vesa,  Unto.  "Finland:  No  Enemies."  Pages  233-46  in  Robert 
Rudney  and  Luc  Reychler  (eds.),  European  Security  Beyond  the  Year 
2000.  New  York:  Praeger,  1988. 

Wiener,  Friedrich.  Die  Armeen  der  neutralen  und  blockfreien  Staaten  Eu- 
ropas.  Vienna:  Carl  Ueberreuter,  1986. 


420 


Glossary 


Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or 
Comecon) —  Members  in  1988  included  Bulgaria,  Cuba, 
Czechoslovakia,  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many), Hungary,  Mongolia,  Poland,  Romania,  the  Soviet 
Union,  and  Vietnam.  Its  purpose  is  to  further  economic  cooper- 
ation among  members. 

Council  of  Europe — Founded  in  1949  to  foster  parliamentary 
democracy,  social  and  economic  progress,  and  unity  among 
its  member  states.  Membership  is  limited  to  those  European 
countries  that  respect  the  rule  of  law  and  the  fundamental 
human  rights  and  freedoms  of  all  those  living  within  their 
boundaries.  As  of  1988,  its  membership  consisted  of  twenty- 
one  West  European  countries. 

European  Community  (EC — also  commonly  called  the  Commu- 
nity)— The  EC  comprises  three  communities:  the  European 
Coal  and  Steel  Community  (ECSC),  the  European  Economic 
Community  (EEC,  also  known  as  the  Common  Market),  and 
the  European  Atomic  Energy  Community  (Euratom).  Each 
community  is  a  legally  distinct  body,  but  since  1967  adl  the 
members  have  shared  common  governing  institutions.  The  EC 
forms  more  than  a  framework  for  free  trade  and  economic 
cooperation:  the  signatories  to  the  treaties  governing  the  com- 
munities have  agreed  in  principle  to  integrate  their  economies 
and  ultimately  to  form  a  political  union.  Belgium,  France,  Italy, 
Luxembourg,  the  Netherlands,  and  the  Federail  Republic  of 
Germany  (West  Germany)  are  charter  members  of  the  EC. 
Britain,  Denmark,  and  Ireland  joined  on  January  1,  1973; 
Greece  became  a  member  on  January  1,  1981;  and  Portugal 
and  Spain  entered  on  January  1,  1986. 

European  Economic  Community — See  European  Community. 

European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA) — Founded  in  1961, 
EFTA  aims  at  supporting  free  trade  among  its  members  and 
increasing  the  liberalization  of  trade  on  a  global  basis,  but  par- 
ticularly within  Western  Europe.  In  1988  the  organization's 
member  states  were  Austria,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway, 
Sweden,  and  Switzerland. 

Finnish  mark  (Fmk) — Also  called  Finnmark.  Consists  of  100  pen- 
nid  (singular:  penni).  In  terms  of  the  United  States  dollar,  the 
average  annual  exchange  rate  was  Fmk3.22  in  1965,  Fmk3.86 


421 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


in  1975,  Fmk3.85  in  1980,  Fmk5.30  in  1982,  Fmk6.54  in  1984, 
Fmk5.42  in  1985,  Fmk4.79  in  1986,  Fmk3.95  in  1987,  and 
Fmk4.17  in  1988. 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT) — An  interna- 
tionzil  organization  established  in  1948  and  headquartered  in 
Geneva  that  serves  as  a  forum  for  international  trade  negotia- 
tions. GATT  members  pledge  to  further  multilateral!  trade  by 
reducing  import  tariffs,  quotas,  and  preferential  trade  agree- 
ments, and  they  promise  to  extend  to  each  other  any  favora- 
ble trading  terms  offered  in  subsequent  agreements  with  third 
parties. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — The  totad  vailue  of  goods  and  ser- 
vices produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during  a  given  period, 
usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value  contributed 
by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits,  compen- 
sation to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of  capi- 
tal). Most  GDP  usage  in  this  book  was  based  on  GDP  at  factor 
cost.  Real  GDP  is  the  value  of  GDP  when  inflation  has  been 
taken  into  account. 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Obtained  by  adding  GDP  {q.  v. ) 
and  the  income  received  from  abroad  by  residents,  less  pay- 
ments remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents.  GNP  valued  at  mar- 
ket prices  was  used  in  this  book.  Real  GNP  is  the  value  of  GNP 
when  inflation  has  been  taken  into  account. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  {q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency, 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations,  that  takes  responsibility  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 
main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers when  they  experience  balance-of-payment  difficulties. 
These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  in- 
ternal economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
(OECD) —  Established  in  1961  to  replace  the  Organisation  for 
European  Economic  Co-operation,  the  OECD  is  an  interna- 
tional organization  composed  of  the  industrialized  market  econ- 
omy countries  (twenty-four  full  members  as  of  1988).  It  seeks 
to  promote  economic  and  socicil  welfare  in  member  countries 
as  weU  as  in  developing  countries  by  providing  a  forum  in  which 
to  formulate  and  to  coordinate  policies. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 


422 


Glossary 


Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  THe  IDA,  a  legEdly  separate  lo2in  fund  ad- 
ministered by  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  furnish 
credits  to  the  poorest  developing  counties  on  much  easier  terms 
than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  founded  in 
1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through  loans 
and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage  the  growth 
of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less  developed  countries. 
The  president  and  certain  senior  officers  of  the  IBRD  hold  the 
same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The  three  institutions  are  owned 
by  the  governments  of  the  countries  that  subscribe  their  capi- 
tal. To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group,  member  states 
must  first  belong  to  the  IMF  (q.v.). 


423 


Index 


Aalto,  Arvo,  257,  258 
Abo  Academy,  12 

Academic  Karelia  Society  (Akateeminen 

Karjala-Seura:  AKS),  36,  50 
Act  of  Political  Parties  (1969),  248 
Act  of  Union  and  Security  (1789),  220 
Act  on  Civil  Service  Collective  Agree- 
ments (1970),  238-39 
administration,   provincial   and  local, 
240-43 

Administrative  Council,  272-73 
adult  education.  See  education 
Advisory  Commission  on  Gypsy  Affairs, 
102 

Advisory  Commission  on  Lapp  Affairs, 
95 

Afghanistan,  286,  327 

The  Agrarian  Party  (Maalaisliitto:  ML) 
{see  also  Center  Party  (Keskustapuoiue: 
Kesk)),  xxvi,  xxvii,  xxx,  34,  60,  249, 
252,  258;  Kekkonen  role  in,  62; 
representation  in  Eduskunta  of,  58 

Agricola,  Mikael,  11-12 

Agricultural  Development  Fund,  166 

agricultural  seaor  {see  also  farms/farmers), 
xvii,  XXV,  xxviii,  15,  85,  160;  central- 
ized associations  for,  150,  261;  in 
coastal  Finland,  76;  education  for,  166; 
farm  cooperatives  in,  164;  government 
intervention  in,  151;  increased  produc- 
tivity of,  22,  162-63,  165;  in  interwar 
years,  37-38;  labor  force  decline  for, 
73,  85,  88,  163;  land  ceded  to  Soviet 
Union,  162;  in  medieval  Finland,  7,9; 
modernization  of,  141,  143-44,  161, 
162;  nature  of,  160-61;  policy  for, 
164-68;  production  patterns  for,  167, 
169;  productivity  of,  147;  subsidies  and 
protection  for,  144,  147,  162,  164,  166, 
207,  209;  surpluses  in,  164-65;  unions 
in,  164 

air  control  network,  civilian  and  military, 
313 

aircraft:  F-27  Fokkers,  313;  Hawk 
Mk-51s,  312-13;  interceptor,  302; 
JAS-39  Gripen,  329;  Jet  Ranger  and 
Super  Puma  helicopters,  337;  MiG-29, 
329;  MiG-21bis,  312,  315,  328-29; 


MiG-21F,  328-29;  Mi-8  helicopters, 
313;  Saab  J-35  Draken,  312,  313,  315, 
328-29;  Valmet  L-70  Vinka  trainer, 
313,  329 

Air  Force  Academy,  313,  318-19 

air  force  (Ilmavoimat),  296,  303,  307, 
309;  air  defense  regions  of,  313;  air 
squadrons  of,  312-13;  antiaircraft  de- 
fenses of,  309;  flight  training  for,  313- 
14;  headquarters  of,  308,  313;  intercep- 
tor and  reconnaissance  capabilities, 
312-13;  peacetime  mission  of,  312; 
radar  system  of,  313 

air  freight  services,  195,  198 

airlines,  198,  213 

Air  Patrol  Command,  337 

airport,  xviii,  198 

air  surveillance  system,  330 

air  transport,  198 

AKS.  See  Academic  Karelia  Society  (Aka- 
teeminen Karjala-Seura:  AKS) 

Aland  Delegation,  245 

Aland  Islands:  in  archipelago  Finland, 
75-76,  84;  autonomy  for,  221,  223, 
240;  ceded  to  Soviet  Union,  45;  de- 
mands of  Soviets  for,  47;  demilitariza- 
tion and  defense  of,  297-98,  300,  304, 
310;  issue  of  security  concerning,  39; 
Landstingof,  245;  Provincial  Executive 
Council  of,  245;  settiements  of  Swedish 
speakers,  96 

alcoholic  beverages  industry,  151 

alcohohsm,  128-29 

Alestalo,  Matti,  88-89 

Alexander  I  (tsar),  xxiii-xxiv,  16,  220 

Alexander  II  (tsar),  xxiv,  220 

Alexander  of  Novgorod  (prince),  7 

AUardt,  Erik,  119 

Allied  Control  Commission,  50,  54,  296 
all-terrain  vehicles:  KB-45,  329;  SA-150 

Masi,  329;  NA-140  Nasu,  329;  NA- 

140,  308 
ammunition,  327-28 
Anjala  League,  15 
antiaircraft  defenses,  309 
antiaircraft  school,  319 
antitank  weapons,  310 
apatite,  176 


425 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


appliance  manufacture,  188 
April  Theses,  29 
arable  land,  160 

Arava  legislation.  See  housing;  Housing 
Production  Act  (1953) 

archipelago  Finland,  75,  79 

Arctic  Circle,  73,  74,  76,  169 

Arctic  Ocean,  35,  39,  79,  313 

armaments  industry,  328-30 

armed  forces  {see  also  Defense  Forces); 
components  of,  xix;  establishment  of, 
41;  MilitEiry  Academy  for,  318;  restric- 
tion in  size  of,  50,  52;  restriction  of 
Treaty  of  Paris  for,  296 

Armfelt,  Gustaf  Mauritz,  16 

army  (Maavoimat),  296,  308-10;  anti- 
aircraft defenses  of,  309;  brigade  for 
Swedish  speakers,  99;  career  officer 
candidates,  318;  ground  forces  of,  302, 
308;  incorporation  into  Russian  army 
of,  24;  infantry  battalion  and  support 
units,  308,  310;  offensive  in  Continua- 
tion War  of,  48-49;  role  in  Winter  War 
of,  44-47,  295 

Army  Strike,  24 

art  academies,  115 

artillery  school,  319 

assimilation,  73,  96,  102 

Atlantic  Alliance,  see  North  Atlantic 
Treaty  Organization  (NATO) 

Atlantic  Ocean,  79 

Australia,  175 

Austria,  210 

automobiles,  197 

Autonomy  Act  of  1951,  221;  of  1975,  243 
The  Awakened  (revivalist  movement), 
107,  108 


Bahai  Society,  112 

bakery  equipment  manufacture,  190 

balance  of  payments  {see  also  trade  perfor- 
mance), xvii,  38,  146,  156,  206-7 

Balkan  countries,  49 

Baltic  countries,  40,  42,  298;  annexation 
by  Soviet  Union  of,  42,  47 

Baltic  Sea,  xxiu,  4,  12,  75,  277,  298,  299, 
300;  area  of,  12,  13;  as  training  ground 
for  German  navy,  49 

Bank  of  Finland  (BOF),  21,  152,  154, 
192,  206,  211,  225 

banking  system,  147,  150,  191-95;  farm 
cooperatives  in,  164 


banks:  commercial,  192-93;  cooperative, 
192;  foreign-owned,  194;  national,  193; 
savings,  192-93,  263;  state-owned, 
192-93 

Barents  Sea,  277,  300 

battalions,  293,  310;  artillery,  309;  de- 
fending coastline,  309 

Battle  of  Suomussalmi  (1939),  44 

Bible,  11,  104 

bilingualism,  100-101 

birth  rate,  79,  80,  81 

Bishops'  Conference  (Lutheran  Church), 
109 

Bobrikov,  Nikolai  Ivanovich,  23,  25 
BOF.  See  Bank  of  Finland  (BOF) 
Bolshevik  Revolution  (1917),  xxvii,  26- 

27,  29,  40,  143,  220,  248 
Borga  diocese,  108 
boundaries,  74-75 

boundary  dispute  {see  also  Treaty  of 
Dorpat,  or  Tartu  (1920));  Soviet 
Union-Finland,  39-40 

Brigade  80  forces.  See  jaeger  (ranger) 
brigades 

Brigade  90  forces.  See  jaeger  (ranger) 
brigades 

brigades  {see  also  jaeger  (ranger)  brigades), 

296,  308,  310 
budget,  government,  154-55,  227 
Bulgaria,  296 
burghers,  87 

cabinet.  See  Council  of  State 
cadmium  deposits,  177 
canals,  197 

capitid:  formation  of,  181;  imports  and 

exports  of,  205 
Caps  political  party,  13 
Castle  Peace  Agreement  (1951),  58 
cellulose  industry,  21,  38 
CEMA.  51^^  Council  for  Mutual  Economic 

Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Come- 

con) 

cement  industry,  21 
censorship,  274 

Center  Party  (Keskustapuolue:  Kesk), 
XXX,  xxxi,  62,  64,  65,  66,  67,  218,  239, 
246;  development  and  role  of,  252-53; 
in  government  coalition,  264,  266; 
news  agency  of,  271;  representation  in 
Eduskunta  of,  267 

central  bank.  See  Bank  of  Finland  (BOF) 


426 


Index 


Central  Criminal  Police  (Keskusrikos- 

poliisi:  KRP),  xx,  332,  333,  335 
Central  Organization  of  Finnish  Trade 
Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiliittojen 
Keskusjarjesto:  SAK),  65,  261 
Central  Organization  of  Professional  Asso- 
ciations in  Finland  (Akava),  261 
Central  Pension  Security  Institute,  122 
Central  Statistical  Office  of  Finland,  86 
Chambers  of  Police,  332-33 
chancellor  of  justice,  xix,  232-33,  235-36 
Charismatics  (revivalist  movement),  108 
Charles  XII  (king  of  Sweden),  13 
chemical  industry,  151,  179,  190,  201; 

overseas  expansion  of,  205 
Chernobyl  Nuclear  Power  Plant,  133, 

176,  332 
Child  Allowance  Act  (1948),  125 
child  allowances,  125 
child  care  services,  125,  126 
Child  Day  Care  Act  (1973),  126 
Child  Welfare  Act  (1983),  126 
Christian  Scientists,  103 
Christianity:  conversion  of  Finns  to,  xxiii, 
5 

chromite  deposits,  177 

Church  Assembly  (Orthodox  Church  of 
Finland),  111-12 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  Day 
Saints.  See  Mormons 

circuit  courts.  See  court  system 

civil  defense,  330-32;  early  warning  sys- 
tem, 330;  evacuation  program  for,  332; 
shelter  system  of,  331-32 

Civil  Defense  Act  (1958),  330 

Civil  Guard,  25,  26,  27,  36,  37,  50,  295, 
296 

civil  service,  238-39,  261 

Civil  War  (1918),  xxvii,  3-4,  294-95; 

Defense  Forces  political  role  in,  325; 

impact  of,  32-33,  35,  87,  118-19,  143, 

217;  prelude  and  outbreak  of,  26-30; 

Reds  and  Whites  in,  3-4,  26,  294 
class  structure.  See  social  structure 
clergy,  87 

climate  (^^^a/jo  winter),  xvi,  79,  160,  169, 
173,  195,  301;  in  defense  strategy,  304 

CMEA.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Economic 
Assistance,  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or 
Comecon) 

coal  imports,  174,  175 

coalitions,  political,  58,  64,  65-66;  Red- 
Earth,  58,  64,  249,  252,  254,  258 


coast  artillery  school,  319 

Coast  Guard,  xx,  310,  312,  336,  337-38 

Coast  Guard  School,  337 

coastal  waters,  160,  172 

coastline,  75,  76,  178,  301-302 

cobalt  deposits,  176,  177 

Cold  War,  53-57,  210,  280,  282,  286 

Colombia,  175 

combat  school,  319 

combine  manufacture,  186 

Comecon.  See  Council  for  MutUcJ  Eco- 
nomic Assistance  (CMEA,  CEMA,  or 
Comecon) 

communication  equipment  manufacture, 
188 

communications,  147,  195 

communism,  xxx,  4,  32,  34,  36-37,  62; 
decline  of,  67;  sympathy  for,  54-55 

communist-front  organization,  48 

Communist  Party  of  Finland  (Suomen 
Kommunistinen  Puolue:  SKP),  xxx, 
34,  218,  249;  development  and  activ- 
ity of,  255-58;  legalization  of,  50,  54, 
254;  representation  in  Eduskunta  of, 
256;  revisionists  and  Stalinists  in,  257; 
Soviet  Union  intervention  in,  282 

Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union 
(CPSU),  257 

Compliants,  24,  53 

Comprehensive  Education  Act  (1921), 
112 

computer  manufacture,  188 
Confederation  of  Agricultural  Producers 

(Maataloustuottajain  Keskusliitto: 

MTK),  164,  165,  261 
Confederation  of  Commerce  Employers 

(Liiketyonantajain  Keskusliitto:  LTK), 

261 

Confederation  of  Finnish  Employers 
(Suomen  Tyonantajain  Keskusliitto: 
STK),  58,  64,  158,  159,  261 

Confederation  of  Finnish  Trade  Unions 
(Suomen  Ammattiyhdistysten  Keskus- 
liitto: SAK),  34,  58,  64,  158,  159,  249; 
alliance  with  SDP  of,  261 

Confederation  of  Salaried  Employees  and 
Civil  Servants  (Toimihenkilo-  ja 
Virkamiesjarjestojen  Keskusliitto: 
TVK),  261 

Confederation  of  Technical  Employees' 
Organizations  in  Finland  (Suomen 
Teknisten  Toimihenkilojarjestojen 
Keskusliitto:  STTK),  261 


427 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe:  CSCE  (1975),  xxx,  68,  219, 
278 

conscription  law  (1901),  24,  25,  293,  294 

conscription  system  {see  also  conscription 
law  (1901),  xix,  291,  295,  315,  324-25; 
of  Finns  in  Russian  army,  23,  24 

Constitution  (1919),  xxvii,  33,  116; 
amendment  to,  221-22;  basic  laws  of, 
221,  222-23;  protection  of  Swedish 
speakers  in,  97;  religious  freedom 
gu£irantee  in,  103 

Constitution  Act  (1919),  xviii,  219,  220, 
221,  231,  235,  236,  238,  240,  258; 
Article  10  of,  273;  individual  rights 
under,  222 

Constitutionalists,  24 

Constitutional  Party  of  the  Right  (Per- 
ustuslaillinen  Oikeistopuolue:  POP), 
68,  255,  259 

construction  sector,  85,  190 

Continuation  War  (1941-44),  xxviii, 
47-50,  53,  162,  252-53,  256;  goals  of, 
295-96;  Kekkonen  position  on,  58;  les- 
sons of,  292;  preliminary  peace  treaty 
of,  279 

control  system  manufacture,  188 

cooperatives.  See  farm  cooperatives 

copper  deposits,  20,  176,  186 

Council  for  Equality,  92 

Council  for  Mass  Media  Qulkisen  Sanan 
Neuvosto:  JSN),  274 

Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
(CMEA,  CEMA,  or  Comecon),  xxix, 
63,  207,  212,  281,  284 

Council  of  Europe,  xix,  xxix,  285 

Council  of  State,  xxvii,  217,  221,  229, 
236;  Economic  Policy  Committee  of, 
234;  executive  power  and  responsibil- 
ity of,  232-34;  Finance  Committee  of, 
234;  Foreign  Affairs  Committee  of, 
234;  relations  with  Eduskunta  of,  233; 
relation  to  Aland  Islands,  245-46 

court  system,  xix,  236-37;  administrative, 
xix,  237-38;  courts  of  appeals  in,  235, 
236-37;  criminal  courts  in,  340-41;  di- 
vision of,  235,  236-37;  special  military 
court  of,  341 

CPSU.  See  Commimist  Pairty  of  the  Soviet 
Union  (CPSU) 

crane  manufacture,  186 

crime,  342-44 

Crimean  War  (1853-56),  20 


criminal  justice  system,  338-44 
Crowe,  WiUiam,  285 
crusades,  5,  7 

currency,  xxv;   appreciation  of,  154; 

devaluations  for,  153,  158,  209;  ruble 

clearing  account,  211 
Customs  Office,  337 
Cyprus,  327 
Czechoslovakia,  55 


dairy  equipment  manufacture,  190 
dairy  farming,  38,  76 
Danish  Straits,  300 

debt:  domestic,  155-56;  external,  145, 

156,  206-7 
defense  commission,  305 
defense  committees,  parliamentary,  305, 

324 

Defense  Council,  41,  43,  304,  325 

Defense  Forces,  xix,  292;  Aland  Islands 
defense  by,  298;  authority  over,  305; 
commander-in-chief  of,  307;  conditions 
of  service  for,  322-23;  conscription  for, 
315;  general,  local,  and  support  forces 
of,  303,  304,  309-10;  reorganization  of, 
296;  role  in  society  of,  324-26;  special 
courts  for  personnel  of,  341;  training 
for,  318-19;  uniforms  of,  319,  322 

Defense  Forces'  NCO  School,  337 

defense  policy  {see  also  mobilization), 
291-92,  300-301,  303 

Defense  Review  Committee  (1926),  41 

defense  spending  {see  also  spending,  gov- 
ernment), 323-24 

defense  strategy,  302-4 

Democratic  Alternative  (Demokraattinen 
Vaihtoehto:  DEVA),  257-58,  267 

demography,  79-81,  83-84 

Demokraattinen  Lehtipalvelu  (DPL),  271 

Denmark,  13,  60,  276,  277,  298,  344; 
Finnish  investment  in,  205;  in  Great 
Northern  War,  13;  interest  in  Baltic 
area  of,  12;  position  on  neutrality  of, 
61;  Scandinavian  union  under,  9-10; 
struggle  for  power  by,  10;  treaty  with 
Muscovy  by,  10 

deregulation,  152 

Deriabin,  lurii,  281 

DEVA.    See   Democratic  Alternative 
(Demokraattinen  Vaihtoehto:  DEVA) 
Diet  Act  of  1617  (Sweden),  219 
Diet  of  the  Four  Estates  (Riksdag),  xxiv. 


428 


Index 


xxvi,  9,  10,  25,  258;  Finnish  represen- 
tation in,  xxiii,  9,  219-20 

disarmament  measures,  304 

disease,  131-32 

district  heating,  176 

divorce,  91 

draft.  See  conscription  law 
Dragoon  regiment,  293 
drainage  systems,  161,  162 
Draken.  See  Saab  J-35  Draken 
drought,  160 

drug  use,  128-29,  131,  344 
drumlins,  75,  76 

dual  kingdom,  Finland  and  Sweden,  xxiii, 

10-16,  219,  293 
Duma,  25 


Eastern  Europe.  See  Europe,  Eastern 
Eastern  Orthodoxy,  4,  35 

EC.  See  European  Community  (EC) 
Ecclesiastical  Board  (Lutheran  Church), 

109 

Ecclesiastical  Law  (1687),  12;  (1869),  105 

economic  cooperation:  with  Eastern  Eu- 
rope, 199-204,  210-213;  with  Nordic 
Europe,  208,  283-84;  with  Western 
Europe,  207-10,  284-85 

economic  development:  government  in- 
tervention in,  150-52;  impact  of,  4, 
62-63,  84-85,  86,  91,  147;  post-World 
War  II,  83,  141,  147,  150 

economic  performance,  xviii,  37-38,  63, 
143-47,  154 

economic  policy,  145-47;  for  trade,  150- 
52 

economy,  medieval,  7,  9 
Ecumenical  Patriarchate  of  Constanti- 
nople, 111 

ED.  See  National  Progressive  Party  (Kan- 
sallinen  Edistyspuolue:  ED) 

education  system  {see  also  Comprehensive 
Education  Act  (1921)),  xvi-xvii,  xxxii, 
112-18;  for  adults,  118;  for  agricultural 
sector,  166;  as  factor  in  social  mobili- 
ty, 85-87;  focus  on  equality  of,  113; 
goals  of,  112-13;  higher,  116,  118;  for 
medical  personnel,  120;  primary  and 
secondary,  113-16;  for  women,  91 

Eduskunta  {see  also  Council  of  State);  can- 
didates for,  243-44;  Constitutional 
Committee  of,  221,  236;  importance  of, 
xviii,  xxvii,  217;  Kesk  representation 


in,  65;  KOK  representation  in,  xxx,  65, 
66;  legislative  procedure  of,  225-28; 
means  of  control  by,  228-29;  people 
govern  through,  221;  powers  of,  223, 
225;  relation  with  Aland  Islands  of, 
246;  replaces  Diet,  xxvi,  25,  220; 
representatives  of,  326;  role  in  budget 
process  of,  154-55;  role  in  nation£il 
defense  of,  305;  SDP  representation  in, 
26,  58;  SEP  representation  in,  xxx,  99; 
SKDL  representation  in,  54-55,  56,  58, 
60,  62;  SMP  representation  in,  xxxi, 
62,  65 

EEC.  See  European  Economic  Commu- 
nity (EEC) 

EFTA.  See  European  Free  Trade  Associ- 
ation (EFTA) 

Egypt,  327 

election  laws,  225 

electoral  system  {see  also  suffrage),  243-44; 

local,  240-41 
electrical  equipment  production,  188 
electricity,  173-74,  175-76 
electric  motor  manufacture,  188 
electronics  industry,  147,  188-89 
emigration,  22,  79-81;  of  Jews,  102;  of 

Swedish  speakers,  67,  81,  100 
Employees'  Pensions  Act  (1961),  122 
employers'  federations,  158 
employment,  156-58;  in  civil  service, 

238-39 

energy  {see  also  district  heating;  electric- 
ity), consumption  and  conservation  of, 
173-76;  industries,  151 

energy  sources,  162,  174-75 

energy  stockpiling  program,  175 

engineering,  147 

Enontekio,  94 

entrepreneurial  class,  87 

environmental  protection,  133-35 

environmental  protection  equipment,  179 

Enzo-Gutzeit,  151 

Equality  Law  (1987),  93 

Erik  IX  (king  of  Sweden),  5 

eskers,  75,  76 

Espoo  (Helsinki  suburb),  84,  340 
Estonia,  4,  35,  40,  213 
Estonians,  5 

Eureka  technology,  206,  284 

Europe,  Eastern:  relations  with,  200,  204, 

206,  207,  208,  212 
Europe,    Nordic   {see  also  Denmark; 

Iceland;  Norway;  Sweden),  142,  144, 


429 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


150-51,  172,  175,  179,  221,  236,  270; 
cooperation  in  military  training  of,  327; 
economic  cooperation  in,  208,  282-84; 
effect  of  Finland's  neutrality  on,  279- 
80;  labor  market  in,  208;  relations  with, 
200,  282;  trade  policy  for,  150-51,  199- 
200,  204;  welfare  systems  of,  118-19 

Europe,  Northern:  strategic  significance 
of,  279-80,  302 

Europe,  Western:  relations  with,  xvii, 
200,  284;  trade  policy  for,  xxxii,  150, 
199-200,  208-10,  150;  trade  with,  200, 
204,  205,  206,  207,  208-10 

European  Community  (EC),  xxix,  xxx, 
xxxii,  142,  206,  210,  283,  285 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC), 
63,  142,  207,  209,  212,  281,  283,  284 

European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA), 
xxix,  xxxii,  63,  207,  209-10,  281,  283, 
284 

European  Payments  Union  of  OEEC, 
284 

European  Recovery  Program.  See  Mar- 
shall Plan  (European  Recovery  Pro- 
gram) 

European  Space  Agency  (ESA),  206,  210, 
284 

Evangelical  Movement  (revivalist  move- 
ment), 108 

Evening  School  meeting  (Council  of  State), 
234,  247 

evening  schools,  118 

exchange  rate,  xviii 

exchange-rate  policy  {see  also  currency), 
152,  154;  ruble  clearing  account  as, 
211 

executions,  31 

explosives,  327 

export  competitiveness,  150 

export  licensing,  205 

exports,  xvii,  38;  of  capital,  205;  of  chem- 
icals, 201;  of  forest  products,  143,  200- 
201;  of  metal  products,  186,  201;  to 
Western  Europe,  284 

Fagerholm,  Karl- August,  56,  60 

family  assistance,  125 

family  structure:  changes  in,  73,  90-91 

famine,  xxv,  13,  79 

farm  cooperatives,  164 

Farm  Income  Act,  165 

farm  production.  See  agricultural  sector 


farms/farmers,  xxv,  88,  163-64;  control 

of  forests  by,  169-70 
fascism,  xxvii,  4,  37 
Fast  Deployment  Forces,  xix,  303,  309, 

316 

February  Manifesto  (1899),  23-24,  25 
feed  crops,  167 
feminist  movement,  92,  262 
Feminists  (Feministit),  262 
Feminist  Union  (Naisasialiitto  Unioni), 
262 

Fennoman  movement,  xxv,  19 
ferrochrome  deposits,  177 
ferry  manufacture,  187 
Fifth  Revival,  108 
Film  Censorship  Board,  274-75 
film  industry,  274 

financial  sector,  147,  152,  191-95;  com- 
mercial bank  services,  193;  develop- 
ment of,  181;  regulation  of,  191-92, 
194 

FINEFTA  agreement  (1961),  63,  209, 

211,  284 
Finnair,  198,  213 
Finnic  tribes,  5,  7 

Finnish  Broadcasting  Company  (Yleis- 
radio:  YLE),  270,  271-72,  273 

Finnish  Christian  League  (Suomen 
Kristillinen  Liitto:  SKL),  67,  260,  267 

Finnish  Communist  Party-Unity  (Suo- 
men Kommunistinen  Puolue- 
Yhtenasyys-SKP-Y),  258 

Finnish  Export  Credit  Bank,  193 

Finnish  Labor  party.  See  Finnish  Social 
Democcratic  Party  (Suomen  Sosiali- 
demokraattinen  Puolue:  SDP) 

Finnish  Military  Academy,  293-95,  318- 
19,  337 

Finnish  News  Agency  (Suomen  Tietotoi- 

misto:  STT),  270 
Finnish  People's  Democratic  League 

(Suomen  Kansan  Demokraattinen 

Liitto:  SKDL),  {see  also  communism); 

54,  66,  249;  news  agency  of,  271; 

representation  in  Eduskunta  of,  267; 

role  in  Finnish  politics  of,  55,  56,  60, 

62,  65,  67,  256 
Finnish  Rural  Party  (Suomen  Maaseu- 

dun  Puolue:  SMP),  xxxi,  62,  218, 

246-47,  259,  260,  265,  267 
Finnish  Small  Farmers'  Party.  See  Finnish 

Rural   Party   (Suomen  Maaseudun 

Puolue:  SMP) 


430 


Index 


Finnish  Social  Democratic  Party  (Suomen 
Sosialidemokraattinen  Puolue:  SDP), 
xxvi,  xxvii,  XXX,  21-22,  61,  64,  66,  67, 
218,  239;  development  and  activity  of, 
248-52;  election  of  Koivisto  as  presi- 
dent, 263,  265;  news  agency  of,  271; 
Red  Guards  of,  294;  reorganization  of, 

33,  248;  representation  in  Eduskunta, 
25,  26,  58,  65,  248-49,  250,  252,  265, 
267;  role  in  general  strike  (1917),  29; 
role  in  Power  Act  (1917),  27;  in  Rus- 
sification  controversy,  24 

Finnish  Socialist  Workers'  Party  (Suomen 
Sosizilistinen  Tyovaenpuolue:  SSTP), 

34,  255-56 

Finnish-Soviet  Intergovernmental  Com- 
mission for  Economic  Cooperation, 
211-12 

Finnish-Soviet  Peace  and  Friendship  So- 
ciety (Suomen-Neuvostoliiton  rauhan 
ja  ystavyyden  seura:  SNS),  48 

Finnish  speakers  {see  also  Constitution- 
alists; Language  Ordinance  (1863)),  24, 
35;  division  into  two  parties  of,  34;  as 
majority,  xxiv;  nationalism  of,  xxiv- 
XXV,  17,  19-20 

Finnish  Trade  Union  Federation  (Suo- 
men Ammattijarjesto:  SAJ),  21,  34; 
amaJgamation  with  SAK,  65 

Finno-Ugric  language,  xxiii,  5,  35,  94 

fiscal  policy  {see  also  budget,  government; 
debt,  domestic;  social  security  taxes; 
spending,  government),  152-53,  154- 
55 

fishing  industry,  147,  160,  172 

Five- Year  Framework  Agreement  (1951), 
62-63 

float  ways,  197 

folk  high  schools,  118 

food-processing  industry,  189-90 

foreign  aid,  207 

foreign  companies,  205 

Foreign  Military  Sales  Program  (United 
States),  329 

foreign  policy  {see  also  neutrality; 
Paasikivi-Kekkonen  Line),  xix,  xxix, 
68,  218-19;  neutral  position  and  non- 
alignment  of,  208,  275 

foreign  trade.  See  trade  policy 

Foreign  Trade  Bank  (Soviet  Union),  211 

forest  land,  xxv,  169-72 

forest  ownership,  xxv,  110,  169-70 

forest  products  industries  {see  also  forest 


land;  log  floating;  lumber  industry; 
paper  industry;  sledding  season;  wood; 
wood-processing  industries;  wood  pulp 
industry),  xxv,  xxviii,  xxxii,  85,  143, 
147,  150,  160;  foreign  aid  for  expan- 
sion of,  144;  foreign  exchsmge  earnings 
of,  183-84,  200-201;  location  of,  178; 
response  to  foreign  demand  of,  200; 
sales  oudets  of,  205;  transportation  for, 
195,  197 

forestry,  xvii,  169-71;  decline  in  occupa- 
tions in,  85 

Forest  2000  plan,  171,  184-85 

'Forgotten  Finland',  62 

forklift  manufacture,  186 

Form  of  Government  Act  of  1634  (Sweden), 
219 

France,  40,  85;  in  Napoleonic  wars,  15- 
16;  as  source  of  military  equipment,  xx, 
327-29 

Freedom  of  Religion  Act  (1923),  103 
freedom  of  speech,  222,  273 
Friday  Presidential  Meeting,  234 
Friedrich  Karl  (prince  of  Hesse),  33 
Frontier  Guard  Department,  332 
Frontier  Guard  (Rajavartiolaitos:  RVL), 
{see  also  Coast  Guard),  xix,  xx,  303, 
304,  309,  312,  318,  324;  organization 
and  responsibility  of,  336-38 
Frontier  Guard  School,  337 
Frontier  Jaeger  Battalions,  337 
fur  industry,  167,  172,  191 


Gaza  Strip,  327 

General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT),  57,  208,  276,  284 

General  Code  of  1734  (Sweden),  235 

general  strikes:  in  1917,  29;  in  1956,  58 

geographic  location  of  Finland,  xxv,  3, 
73,  74,  291,  298 

geography,  xvi,  74-75,  195;  in  defense 
strategy,  304;  regional  differences  in,  75 

Geological  Survey  (Ministry  of  Trade  and 
Industry),  177-78 

Germany,  aid  to  Finland  in  Civil  War  by, 
26,  33;  Baltic  Division  military  as- 
sistance, 30;  domination  by  merchants 
of,  15;  Finnish  postwar  relations  with, 
63,  204,  284;  Reformation  in,  10;  rela- 
tions with,  40-41;  role  for  Finland  in 
World  War  I  and  after,  26,  41 ;  role  in 
Aland  Islands  dispute,  39;  role  in 


431 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


World  War  II,  40-43,  47-52;  Soviet 
fear  of  resurgence  of,  60;  threat  from, 
9;  trade  with,  21,  143,  144;  as  trading 
partner,  21 

glacier  effect,  75,  76 

Golan  Heights,  327 

gold  deposits,  176 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail  S.,  212 

government  intervention  {see  also  nation- 
alization), 147;  in  agriculture,  151,  164- 
68;  in  economic  development,  150;  in 
forest  products  industries,  169-71;  in 
industrial  development,  182-91;  in  min- 
eral industries,  177;  in  use  of  energy 
resources,  173-74 

government  structure,  217-19;  branches 
of,  222-23 

grain  crops,  161,  167 

Grand  Duchy  of  Finland,  xxiii,  xxvi, 
16-17,  207,  220,  338;  Diet  of,  16-17, 
20,  22,  23,  25;  economy  of,  142-43; 
Government  Council,  or  Senate,  in,  16 

Great  Address,  23,  24 

Great  Britedn,  40,  49;  as  source  of  mili- 
tary equipment,  xx,  327-29;  trade  with, 

144,  209;  as  trading  partner,  21,  63,  144 
Great  Depression,  xxviii,  144 

Great  Migration,  xxxii-xxxiii,  83,  84,  91 
Great  Northern  War  (1700-1721),  12-13, 
15 

Great  Wrath,  13 

Greater  Finland  (Suur-Suomi),  35-36, 
40,  249 

Green  League  (Vihrea  Liitto),  261 
the  Greens,  134,  253,  259,  260-61  repre- 
sentation in  Eduskunta  of,  265,  267 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  xvii,  119, 

145,  146,  157 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  56-57, 

125,  145,  286-87 
Gulf  of  Bothnia,  7,  35,  75,  76,  79,  84, 

167,  178 

Gulf  of  Finland,  4,  7,  42,  45,  49,  50,  75, 

84,  178,  299,  311 
Gulf  Stream,  79,  160 
Gustav  I  Vasa  (king  of  Sweden),  10,  12 
Gustav  III  (king  of  Sweden),  15,  220 
Gustavus  II  Adolphus  (king  of  Sweden), 

12 

Gypsies,  73-74,  93-94,  101-2 
Habsburg  Empire,  12 


Haider,  Frzinz,  41 
Halkola,  Kristiina,  258 
Hame  Province,  81,  84,  240 
Hamina,  293 

handicapped  services,  126,  128 
Hanko  naval  base,  45 
Hanseatic  League,  9 
harbor  facilities,  21 
Hats  political  party,  13 
health,  xvii,  74,  131-32 
health  care:  standards  for,  129 
health  care  system,  129-31;  centers  of, 
130-31;  hospitals  and  clinics  for,  120, 
129;  subsidies  for,  130 
Health  for  All  by  the  Year  2000,  132 
health  insurance,  120,  122-23 
Hedberg,  Fredrik  Gabriel,  108 
Helsinki,  xxxiii,  19,  33,  40-41,  80,  102- 
03,  108,  109,  192,  269;  becomes  capi- 
tal city,  17;  in  civil  war,  30-31,  33; 
court  of  appeals  in,  237;  as  largest 
urban  area,  84;  mutiny  of  Russian  fleet 
in,  26-27;  Naval  Academy  at,  318;  as 
site  of  SALT  talks,  278;  Supreme  Court 
and  Supreme  Administrative  Court  in, 
237;  town  court  in,  340 
Helsinki  Accords  (1975),  xxx,  68 
Helsinki  Club,  209,  284 
Helsinki  Stock  Exchange,  193,  194-95, 
213 

Helsinki- Vantaa  airport,  198 
Henry  (archbishop  of  Uppsala),  5 
High  Court  of  Impeachment,  236 
High  Court  of  Impeachment  Act,  221 
high-technology  products,  147,  178-79, 

188-89,  201 
highways.  See  roads 
Hider,  Adolph,  47,  48 
hoist  manufacture,  186 
Holkeri,  Harri,  xxx,  255,  267,  268- 

69 

Holland,  15 

Hollming,  188,  330 

homogeneity,  73,  93 

Honka,  Olavi,  61 

Honka  League,  255 

Hoover,  Herbert,  285 

hospitals,  120,  129,  131 

housing:  allowances  for,  120;  construc- 
tion, standards,  and  quantity  of,  135- 
37;  subsidies  for,  74;  subsidies  through 
Arava  legislation  for,  135 

Housing  Corporation  Act,  135 


432 


Index 


Housing  Department  (Ministry  of  En- 
vironment), 135 
Housing  Mortgage  Bank,  135 
Housing  Production  Act  (1953),  135 
Hungary,  296 

hydroelectric  plants,  172,  174,  175 


icebreaker  manufacture,  141,  179,  187, 
197 

Iceland,  276,  324 

IKL.  See  Patriotic  People's  Movement 
(Isanmaallinen  Kansanliike:  IKL) 

Imatran  Voima,  151,  174 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF) 

immigrants,  81 

Immola,  337 

Imperial  Russian  Army,  293,  294 
import  controls  {see  also  tariffs),  145,  204-5 
imports,  xvii,  199;  of  capital,  205;  of 
energy  resources,  174,  175,  201;  offish 
and  fish  offal,  172;  of  food,  143;  of  oil, 
146,  199,  201;  of  wood,  171 
Inari,  94 

income  distribution,  86-87 

incomes  agreements  {see  also  wage  settle- 
ments), xxxi,  86,  87,  158-60,  247, 
261-62 

income  security  programs:  social  insur- 
ance forms  of,  120-24;  as  welfare,  120- 
21,  124-29 

independence  (1917),  xxvi,  xxvii,  3,  26, 
29,  33,  34,  293,  294 

Independence  Day  (December  6),  29 

India-Pakistan  border,  327 

industrialization,  xxv-xxvii,  21,  22,  62, 
84-85,  87,  143-45 

Industrialization  Fund  of  Finland  (bank), 
193 

industrial  relations.  See  labor-management 
relations 

industrial  sector  {see  also  capital  forma- 
tion), xvii;  development  of,  xxvi,  57, 
178,  205;  geographical  distribution  of, 
178-79;  mergers  in,  180-81,  184,  194; 
size  and  structure  of,  179,  181 

infantry  regiments,  293 

inflation,  xviii,  144-45,  146,  152-53,  156, 
158 

infrastructure,  195,  205;  development  of, 
20-21;  for  forest  products  industries, 
169 


insurance  industry,  147;  farm  coopera- 
tives in,  164;  investments  of,  195 

interest  groups,  218,  261-63 

interest  rates,  152,  153 

International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  278 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
208,  284 

investment,  direct  foreign,  181,  205-6 
Iron  Age,  5 

iron  and  steel  production,  177,  186 
iron  deposits,  49,  176 
isostatic  rebound,  76 
Israel,  327 

Ivan  III  (grand  duke),  10 

jaeger  (hght  infantry)  battalion,  26,  29,  30 
jaeger  officers,  294 

jaeger  (ranger)  brigades,  308-9;  Brigade 

80  and  90  forces  of,  308-9 
Jakobson,  Max,  273,  286 
Japan,  324 

Jewish  community,  49,  95,  102-3,  112 

Johti  Sabmelazzat,  95 

judicial  system.  See  legal  system 


Kaamanen,  313 
Kagal,  25 
Kailas,  Uuno,  40 
Kajanoja,  Jouko,  257,  268 
Kalevala,  xxiv,  4,  19 
Kalevala  people,  4 
Kallio,  Kyosti,  37,  38,  62 
Kallio  Law  (Lex  Kallio),  38 
Kalmar  Union,  9,  10 
Kansallis-Osake-Pankki  (KOP),  193 
Karair,  198 

Karelia,  xxviii,  7,  42,  83,  111,  259 

Karelia,  Eastern,  35-36 

Karelian  Isthmus,  5,  39-40,  41,  42-43, 

44,  45,  48,  49,  295 
Karelian  tribe,  5,  7 
Karelian  wing.  See  air  force 
Karjalainen,  Ahti,  65-66 
Kaskinen,  84 
Kauhava,  313,  318 

Kekkonen,  Urho,  xxix,  xxx,  37,  57,  285; 
as  Center  Party  leader,  252-53;  Nordic 
NWFZ  proposal  of,  276-77;  opposition 
to,  255,  260;  position  on  neutrality  of, 
61,  218,  231,  253,  276;  as  president, 
xxxi,  58-61,  66,  68,  246-47,  256, 


433 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


263-64;  role  in  crises  with  Soviet 
Union,  60-61,  62;  special  re-election  of, 
281;  use  of  spoils  system  by,  239 

Kemijoki,  174 

Kemijoki  River,  79 

Kemira  Group,  151,  152,  190 

Kesk.  See  Center  Party  (Keskustapuolue: 
Kesk) 

Keski-Suomi  Province,  240 

Khrushchev,  Nikita,  47,  60,  61,  280 

Kilpisjarvi  area,  76 

Kivisto,  Kalevi,  268 

Koivisto,  Mauno,  65,  67,  68,  231,  232, 

239,  250,  285;  presidency  of,  263-64, 

267;  re-election  of,  268-69;  support  for 

Nordic  NWFZ,  277 
KOK.  See  National  Coalition  Party  (Kan- 

sallinen  Kokoomuspuolue:  KOK) 
Kola  Peninsula,  96,  178,  279,  291,  299- 

300,  313;  Soviet  military  complex  of, 

301,  304 
Komissarov  articles,  281-82 
Korean  War  boom,  145 
Korpilampi,  spirit  of,  64-65 
Kotka,  84 

Kouvala,  237 

Kouvola-Utti,  313 

Kronstadt  naval  base,  40 

KRP.  See  Central  Criminal  PoHce  (Kes- 

kusrikospoliisi:  KRP) 
Kuopio,  237 

Kuopio  Province,  84,  111,  240 
Kuopio-Rissala,  313 
Kuusinen,  Otto,  34,  44,  256 
Kymi  Province,  81,  84,  240 


labor  conflict.  See  general  strikes;  lockouts; 
strikes;  work  stoppages 

labor  federations,  261 

labor  force  {see  also  employers'  federations; 
trade  unions);  concentrations  of  em- 
ployment in,  156;  decline  in  agriculture 
and  timber  industry  in,  73,  84;  dis- 
placement in  rural  areas  for,  83;  on 
farms,  xxvi,  163-64;  mobility  of,  73, 
81,  83-84,  85;  occupational  shift  for, 
85;  productivity  in  industrial  sector  for, 
178;  quality  of,  xxxii,  157;  in  shipbuild- 
ing, 187-88;  unemployment  in,  141, 
154,  156,  157;  unrest  in,  xxxi,  150; 
women  in,  38,  91-93;  working  class  in, 
21,  87,  88-89 


labor-management  relations,  64-65, 
158-60,  261-62 

Laestadian  Movement  (revivalist  move- 
ment), 107 

Laestadius,  Lars  Levi,  107 

Lake  Ladoga,  5,  44,  48-49,  295 

Lake  Onega,  49 

Lake  Peipus,  7 

lakes,  75,  76,  160,  169,  172,  195,  197 
Lake  Saimaa,  76,  197 
Land  Act  of  1945,  56 
land  ownership:  of  family  farms,  xxv,  11, 
163;  of  forests,  xxv,  169;  tenant  farm- 
ers and  Isindless  laborers,  22;  for  war- 
displaced  and  veterans,  56,  162,  163 
land  reform  {see  also  Kallio  Law  (Lex  Kal- 

lio)),  xxviii,  22,  38,  141,  144,  163 
Landsting.  See  Aland  Islands 
Language  Act  of  1922,  35,  97 
Language  Manifesto  (1900),  23-24 
Language  Ordinance  (1863),  20 
languages  {see  also  Finnish  speakers;  Swed- 
ish speakers),  3;  determination  of  na- 
tional, 35,  97-98;  development  and  im- 
portance of  Finnish,  9,  17;  in  educa- 
tional system,  113,  115;  Finno-Ugric, 
5;  of  Gypsies,  101;  official,  xvi,  xxiv- 
XXV,  67,  97-99,  258;  Russian,  23-24; 
Sami  (Lapp),  94;  split  between  Finnish 
£ind  Swedish  speakers,  xxiv-xxv,  3,  17; 
Swedish,  xxiii,  67 
Lapland  {see  also  Satakunta  lapland),  52 
75,  76,  79,  80,  291,  298,  301,  302, 
304 

Lapland  War  (1944-45),  50,  52 

Lappi  Province,  240 

Lapps  (Sami),  5,  7,  73-74,  93-94;  soci- 
ety, economy,  and  culture  of,  94-96, 
102 

Lapua  movement,  36-37,  256 
Latvia,  40 

League  of  Nations:  in  Aland  Islzmds  dis- 
pute, 39,  245;  expels  Soviet  Union,  44; 
membership  in,  40 

Lebanon,  327 

legal  system  {see  also  court  system;  crimi- 
nal justice  system;  penal  code),  xix, 
235-38,  340-44 

Lehdiston  Sanomapzilvelu  (LSP),  271 

Leino,  Yrjo,  55 

Lenin,  Vladimir  L,  29,  30 

Leningrad,  xxviii,  39-40,  42,  49,  279, 
291,  295,  298,  299,  301 


434 


Index 


Lesser  Wrath,  15 

Liberal  Party,  xxv,  xxx,  19,  259 

Liberal   People's  Party  (Liberaalinen 

Kansanpuolue:  LKP),  65-66,  259-60, 

264-65 
lift  manufacture,  186 
lightbulb  manufacture,  188 
Liinamaa,  Keijo,  66 
Liinamaa  Agreement,  xxxi,  64 
literacy,  112 
livestock,  167 

living  standcird,  xviii,  xxxiii,  132-33,  156, 
178 

LKP.  See  Liberal  People's  Party  (Liber- 
aalinen Kansanpuolue:  LKP) 

Local  Government  Act  (1976),  240,  242 

lockouts,  159 

log  floating,  169,  172 

logging  machine  manufacture,  186 

Long-term  Economic  Plan,  212 

Long  Wrath  (war),  12 

Lonnrot,  Elias,  xxiv,  19 

Lotta  Svard,  36,  50 

LP.  See  Mobile  Police  (Liikkuva  Poliisi: 
LP) 

lumber  industry,  20,  21,  26,  38,  57,  143, 
171,  173 

Luonetjarvi,  313 

Luther,  Martin,  10,  11 

Lutheran  Church  of  Finland  {see  also 
revivalist  movements),  xvi,  11,  12,  22, 
74,  103;  degree  of  autonomy  for,  105- 
6;  membership  in,  105;  organization 
and  duties  of,  108-10 

Lutheran  doctrines,  10,  94 

Luxembourg,  324 

Luxembourg  Declaration  (1984),  210 
luxury  liner  manufacture,  187 

machine-building  industry,  57,  141,  184, 
186,  201 

macroeconomic  policy  {see  also  exchange- 
rate  policy;  fiscal  policy;  monetary  pol- 
icy), 145-46,  152-56 

magazines,  271 

mail  service,  195 

Mainos-TV-Reklam  (MTV),  271,  272 

maintenance  allowances,  125 

Mannerheim,  Carl  Gustaf  Emil,  xxviii, 
37,  41,  293;  leader  of  Whites  in  civil 
war,  29,  30-31,  33,  294;  position  in 
negotiations  with  Soviet  Union  of,  43 , 


50;  as  president,  33,  50,  54,  55 
Mannerheim  Line,  41,  44,  45 
Mantsala,  37 

manufacturing  sector,  85,  182 

March  Manifesto,  27 

Margaret  I  (queen  of  Denmark),  9 

marriage,  90-91,  100 

Marshall  Plan  (European  Recovery  Pro- 
gram), 57,  144,  208,  275,  285 

Marxist-Leninist  program,  255 

mass  media,  269-75 

match  industry,  21 

maternity  benefits,  xxxiii,  125 

measuring  equipment  manufacture,  188 

medical  personnel,  120 

medical  services,  74,  120,  123,  129-31, 
332 

Mental  Health  Act  (1978),  129-30 

mercantilism  policy,  15 

merchant  marine,  21,  190,  204 

mercury  deposits,  177 

metallurgical  industries,  56 

metals  production,  186 

metalworking  industry,  21,  26,  141,  143, 
145,  147,  185,  197;  exports  of,  201; 
growth  of,  179,  185,  200;  mergers 
within,  193;  overseas  expansion  of,  205; 
restructuring  of,  185-86 

Midsummer  Bomb,  66-67 

Miettunen,  Martti,  66 

migration  {see  also  Great  Migration;  refu- 
gees); of  early  people,  4;  of  labor  force, 
xxxii,  81,  83;  of  Lapps,  94;  pre-  and 
post- World  War  II,  73,  82;  to  urban 
areas,  xxxii-xxxiii,  73,  83-84,  135 

Mikkeli  province,  84,  240 

Military  Academy.  See  Finnish  Military 
Academy 

military  areas,  307 

military  cooperation,  56 

military  districts,  307-8 

military  equipment  {see  also  mines;  mis- 
siles); defensive  and  offensive,  296,  297; 
domestic  and  foreign  manufacture  of, 
XX,  327-30 

military  preparedness,  292 

military  training.  See  Defense  Forces;  Fin- 
nish Military  Academy 

militia,  294 

minerals:  industries,  177;  resources,  20, 

141,  172,  176-77 
mines,  52,  297,  310 
mining  equipment  manufacture,  177,  186 


435 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


mining  industry,  143,  151 

Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Forestry, 
160,  165,  166,  170,  171 

Ministry  of  Defense,  307 

Ministry  of  Education,  106,  115,  116 

Ministry  of  Environment,  134-35;  hous- 
ing departments  of,  135 

Ministry  of  Finance,  154 

Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  229,  264 

Ministry  of  Interior,  xx,  324,  332,  333, 
336 

Ministry  of  Justice,  240 

Ministry  of  Labor,  158 

Ministry  of  Social  Affairs  and  Health, 
113,  120,  125,  128,  130,  332;  Depart- 
ment of  Temperance  and  Alcohol  Pol- 
icy, 128-29 

Ministry  of  Trade  and  Industry,  151,  175, 
177,  182,  206 

minority  groups,  73-74,  81,  93-103 

missiles,  296,  297,  300,  303,  309,  328-29; 
antitank,  329 

missionary  activity,  5 

ML.  See  The  Agrarian  Party  (Maalaisliitto: 
ML) 

Mobile  Police  (Liikkuva  Poliisi:  LP),  xx, 
332,  333,  335 

mobilization:  in  Finland  (1939),  42;  for 
peacekeeping  missions,  326-27;  present 
system  of,  303,  309;  prior  to  invasion 
of  Soviet  Union  (1941),  48;  in  wartime, 
307-8 

Molotov,  Viacheslav,  48 
monarchism,  33 

monetary  policy,  21,  152,  153-54;  role  of 

Bank  of  Finland  for,  192 
moraines,  75 
Mormons,  103,  112 
mortality  rate,  79,  130,  131-32 
Moscow,  13,  213 
most  favored  nation  status,  211 
motti  tactic,  44 

MTK.  See  Confederation  of  Agricul- 
tural Producers  (Maataloustuottajain 
Keskusliitto:  MTK) 

municipal  council,  240,  243 

Murmansk  area,  279,  300 

Murmansk  Railroad,  45,  49 

Muscovy,  10 

Muslim  community,  94,  102-3,  112 


Namibia,  327 


Napoleon,  16 

Napoleonic  wars,  15 

Narcotics  Act,  333 

NationsJ  Board  of  Forestry,  170 

National  Board  of  General  Education, 

115,  234 
National  Board  of  Health,  130 
National  Board  of  Housing,  135 
National  Board  of  Schools,  128 
National  Board  of  Social  Welfare,  126 
National  Board  of  Vocational  Education, 

115 

National  Board  of  Waters  and  the  En- 
vironment, 134 

National  Coedition  Party  (Kansallinen 
Kokoomuspuolue:  KOK),  xxx,  34,  53, 
65,  66-67,  218,  239,  246,  252,  253;  at- 
tention to  SFP  by,  258;  development 
and  activity  of,  252-53,  254-55;  forma- 
tion of  Honka  League  by,  255;  news 
agency  of,  271;  representation  in 
Eduskunta  of,  267 

National  Conscription  Law  (1950),  316 

nationalism,  xxiv,  3,  36-37,  39,  93,  96- 
97,  294;  of  Finnish- speaking  people, 
xxiv-xxv,  17,  19-20;  Russian,  23;  of 
Swedish  speakers,  19 

nationalization,  143-44 

National  Pension  Plan,  121,  122 

National  Pensions  Act  (1957),  121 

National  Progressive  Party  (Kansallinen 
Edistyspuolue:  ED),  259 

national  security  policy,  275;  to  convey 
idea  of  military  strength,  302-4 

NATO.  See  North  Adantic  Treaty  Orga- 
nization (NATO) 

natural  gas  distribution,  174,  175 

natural  resources,  20 

Nature  Conservation  Act  (1923),  123 

nature  preserves,  134 

Naval  Academy,  318 

naval  bases,  297 

navy  (Merivoimat),  296,  303,  307,  309; 
fleet  units  of,  310,  312;  headquar- 
ters of,  308,  312;  limitations  for, 
311;  mission  of,  310-11;  vessels  of, 
311-12 

Nazism,  37 

Nazi-Soviet  Non-Agression  Pact  (1939), 
42 

Neolithic  peoples,  4 

Neste,  151,  152,  174,  175,  190,  212 

neutral,  or  buffer,  zone,  299 


436 


Index 


neutrality  {see  also  Nordic  Nuclear- 
Weapons-Free  Zone  (Nordic  NWFZ)), 
xxviii,  xxix,  57,  61,  207,  210;  conse- 
quences of,  144,  278-82,  285;  factors 
contributing  to,  4,  199,  275-76;  as  for- 
eign policy,  199,  278;  significance  of, 
291 

Neva  River,  7 

Nevsky,  Alexander.  See  Alexander  of 

Novgorod  (prince) 
newspapers,  269-70 
nickel  deposits,  38,  47,  49,  50,  52,  176, 

186 

Night  Frost  Crisis  (1958-59),  60,  249,  280 
nobility,  9,  87,  219,  293 
Non-Commissioned  Officers  School,  319 
Nordic  Balance,  280 
Nordic  committee  system,  262-63 
Nordic  Convention  on  Cooperation,  283 
Nordic  Council,  xix,  xxix,  57,  208,  276, 

280,  282-83 
Nordic  Council  of  Ministers,  283 
Nordic  defense  union,  276 
Nordic  Economic  Union  (NORDEK), 

283 

Nordic  Europe.  See  Europe,  Nordic 

Nordic  Investment  Bank,  283 

Nordic   Nuclear- Weapons-Free  Zone 

(Nordic  NWZ),  xxx,  61,  276-78,  283, 

304 

Nordic  Sami  Council  (1956),  95 
North  Adantic  Drift  Current,  79,  160 
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO),  60,  61,  276,  277,  291,  298, 
299;  hypothetical  operations  of,  299- 
300;  limitation  on  bases  and  weapons 
for,  298 

Northwestern  Theater  of  Military  Oper- 
ations, 301 

Norway,  9,  50,  60,  79,  210,  276,  277, 
300;  boundary  with  Finland  of,  74, 
298;  Finnish  investment  in,  205;  posi- 
tion on  neutrality  of,  61 

Note  Crisis  (1961),  60-61,  62,  250,  253, 
255;  effect  of,  280-81 

Novgorod,  7,  10 

Novosibirsk,  61 

nuclear  power  plants,  175-76 

Nuclear  Test  Ban  Treaty  (1963),  278 

nuclear  warfare  defense,  304 


October  Manifesto  (1905),  25 


OECD.  See  Organisation  for  Economic 
Co-operation  and  Development 
(OECD) 

OEEC.  See  Organisation  for  European 
Economic  Co-operation  (OEEC) 

oil:  consumption  of,  173 

oil-price  shocks  (1973,  1979),  146,  147, 
162,  174,  178 

oil  refining,  175,  179,  190 

Old  Finn  (Paasikivi),  53 

Old  Finn  Party,  xxv,  xxvi,  24,  34,  248, 
254 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation 
and  Development  (OECD),  134,  145, 
209,  284 

Organisation  for  European  Economic  Co- 
operation (OEEC),  208,  209,  284 

Orthodox  Church  of  Finland  {see  also  Ecu- 
menical Patriarchate  of  Constantinople; 
Russian  Orthodox  Church),  xvi,  103, 
105;  membership  and  affiliation  of, 
110-12 

Ostrobothnia  area,  76,  96 

Otaniemi,  182,  336,  337 

Otanmaki  iron  mine,  176,  177 

Ottoman  Empire,  15 

Oulu,  183 

Oulujoki  River,  79 

Oulu  Province,  240 

Outokumpu  Group,  151,  152,  177,  178, 
186 

Outokumpu  region,  176 

Paasikivi,  Juho  Kusti,  xxix,  33;  foreign 
policy  of,  57,  218,  231;  as  KOK  party 
leader,  254;  negotiations  with  Soviet 
Union  by,  43,  53;  position  on  Finnish 
foreign  policy,  278-79;  as  prime 
minister  and  president,  53-54,  55,  61 

Paasikivi-Kekkonen  Line,  57,  68,  218-19, 
254,  268,  282 

Paasio,  Pertti,  252 

Paasio,  Rafael,  64,  65,  66,  250,  252 

Pacific  Basin,  205 

Pansio  naval  headquarters,  312 

paper  industry,  xxviii,  21,  38,  56,  57,  63, 
143,  144,  172,  173;  foreign  exchange 
earnings  of,  184 

paper-making  machinery,  141,  179,  184, 
186 

paratroop  school,  319 
Parliament  Act  (1928),  221,  225 


437 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


parliamentary  ombudsman,  235-36 

Patriotic  People's  Movement  (Isanmaal- 
linen  Kansanliike:  IKL),  37,  50 

peacekeeping  activity,  xxix-xxx,  326-27 

Peace  of  Moscow  (1940):  Kekkonen  posi- 
tion on,  58;  terms  of,  45,  47 

Peace  of  Noteborg  (1323),  7 

Peace  of  Nystad,  13 

Peace  of  Pahkinasaari  (1323),  7 

Peace  of  Turku,  15 

Peace  of  Uusikaupunki  (1721),  13,  45 

peat  distribution,  174 

peatlands,  174 

Pekkala,  Mauno,  55 

Pellervo  Society,  164 

Penal  Code  {see  also  crime),  338,  340-44; 
addition  for  defamatory  journalism  in, 
273-74;  outlaw  of  racid  discrimination 
in,  102 

pension  plan,  national,  119,  120;  for  em- 
ployees, 122;  provisions  of,  121-22 
Pentecostal  churches,  112 
Persian  Gulf,  327 

personnel  carriers:  A-180  Pasi,  308,  309, 
329 

Petrograd,  248 

Petsamo  area,  38,  39,  45,  47,  49,  50,  52; 
ceded  to  Soviet  Union,  50 

Physical  Planning  and  Building  Depart- 
ment (Ministry  of  Environment),  135 

Pietist  movement,  22 

pilot  training,  319 

pipeline,  natural  gas,  175 

plains,  75,  76 

planned  towns,  136 

plastics  industry,  179 

plywood  industry,  21 

Pohjois-Karjala  province,  84,  132,  240 

Pohjola,  4 

Poland,  20;  agreement  for  military  as- 
sistance, 40;  defeat  by  Germany  of,  42; 
in  Great  Northern  War,  13;  interest  in 
Btiltic  area  of,  12;  Russification  in,  23; 
trade  with,  175 

Police  Academy,  336 

Police  Act  (1925)  (1967),  333 

Police  Department,  333 

police  force:  central  government  respon- 
sibility for,  332;  in  civil  defense,  330; 
drug  enforcement  by,  344;  organization 
of,  XX,  332-33,  335;  training  for,  336 

Police  Training  Center,  336 

political  parties  {see  also  under  names  of  par- 


ties), xix,  XXV,  xxx-xxxi,  217-18,  246- 

47,  248-61;  after  independence,  34-36 
political  system,  xxvii,  217-34,  238-48; 

military  role  in,  325-26 
pollution,  industrial,  133-35,  172 
Poltava  (Battle  of),  13 
POP.  See  Constitutional  Party  of  the  Right 

(PerustuslaiUinen  Oikeistopuolue:  POP) 
population,  xvi,  79-81,  198;  increase  or 

loss  in  some  areas  of,  83-84;  rural,  22; 

urban,  22 
Population  Crisis  Committee,  91 
population  shift.  See  migration 
Porkkala,  50,  52;  return  to  Finland  of,  57, 

280 

Porthan,  Henrik  Gabriel,  17 

ports,  xviii,  195;  Kaskinen,  84;  Korka, 
84;  Petsamo,  38,  39;  of  Soviet  Union, 
291;  Viipuri,  197 

Portugal,  210 

Porvoo,  16 

postal  service,  198 

Postipankki  (bank),  193 

potato,  15,  22,  167 

Power  Act  (1917),  27 

power  plant  generator  manufacture,  188 

precipitation,  79,  160,  169 

president,  xxvii,  217,  221;  authority  in 
national  defense  of,  305;  foreign  affairs 
responsibility  of,  231;  political  respon- 
sibility of,  230;  power  of,  229-31;  pro- 
posals to  limit  power  of,  231 

Press  Law  of  1919,  274 

price  system:  agricultural  price  setting  in, 
164,  165-66;  government  control  of, 
174,  182;  stability  for,  154;  stabiliza- 
tion of  food  prices  in,  164 

Primary  Health  Care  Act  (1972),  129, 
130 

prime  minister,  232 
prisons,  343 
privatization,  152 

prosperity,  xxxi-xxxii,  xxxiii,  63-64, 

67-68,  73,  87,  141,  145-46 
protectionism,  151,  205,  208,  209 
Protective  Forces.  See  Fast  Deployment 
Forces 

Protestant  Reformation,  10-12,  112, 
161-62 

Public  Telecommunications  Agency 
(PTA),  198 

public  welfare  measures.  See  social  legis- 
lation 


438 


Index 


publishing  firms,  273 
pulp  industry.  See  wood  pulp  industry 
purges  in  Soviet  Union,  256 
pyrite  deposits,  176,  177 

quartz  deposits,  177 

Raahe,  186 
radiation  fallout,  133 
radio,  271 

railroads,  xviii,  21,  169,  197 
rain.  See  precipitation 
Rauma-Repola,  188 
Rautaruukki,  151,  177,  186 
reconstruction,  52,  144 
Red  Army  of  Soviet  Union,  47,  295 
Red  Cross,  330 

Red-Earth  coalition,  xxvii,  58,  64,  119, 

249,  252,  254,  258 
Red  Guards,  3-4,  25,  26,  27,  29-30,  34, 

39,  45,  294;  disadvantages  and  defeat 

of,  30-3 1 ;  imprisonment  and  massacre 

of,  32,  143 
Red  Terror,  31 
reforestation,  170 

Reformation.  See  Protestant  Reformation 
refugees:  asylum  for  Jews,  49;  from  ter- 
ritories ceded  to  Soviet  Union,  xxviii, 
47,  52,  56,  83,  144,  162,  163,  259;  pol- 
icy for  93,  287 
reindeer  herding,  94,  95,  167 
Relander,  Lauri  Kristian,  36,  62 
religion  {see  also  ]e.\^s\  Lutheran  Church 
of  Finland;  Mormons;  Muslims;  Ortho- 
dox Church  of  Finland;  revivalist 
movements;  Roman  Catholics;  state 
churches),  xvi,  103-12;  in  educational 
system,  113-14;  role  in  society  of,  103- 
5 

religious  freedom,  74,  103,  222 
religious   movements.    See  revivalist 

movements 
Rendulic,  Lothar,  52 
Renqvist,  Henrik,  108 
reparations  payments:  to  Soviet  Union, 

xxxii,  50,  52,  56-57,  144,  145,  182, 

185,  280 
Rescue  Service,  330 
reserve  force,  xix,  42,  291,  293-94,  316, 

324-25;  Eduskunta  representatives  in, 

326;  officer  candidates,  318 


resettlement  policy,  xxviii,  56,  83,  162, 
163 

Responsibility  of  Ministers  Act  (1922), 
221,  228,  233 

revivzJist  movements,  22,  106-8 

revolution,  Russian.  See  Bolshevik  Revo- 
lution; Revolution  of  1905  (Russia) 

Revolution  of  1905  (Russia),  xxvi,  25,  26, 
27 

Ries,  Tomas,  309 
rights  of  Finnish  people,  222 
Riksdag.  See  Diet  of  the  Four  Estates 
rivers,  79,  134,  160,  169,  172,  195,  197 
roads,  xviii,  50,  169,  197,  301,  310 
Rogers,  Bernard,  285 
Roman  Catholic  Church,  103,  112;  con- 
version of  Swedes  by,  5;  effect  of  Luthe- 
ran doctrine  on,  10-11;  in  medieval 
society,  9 
Romania,  296 
root  crops,  167 

Roundwood  Export  Commission,  205 
Rovaniemi,  52,  116,  237,  313,  319 
Royal  Prussian  Jaeger  Battalion,  Twenty- 
seventh,  294 
Runeberg,  Johan  Ludvig,  19 
Ruotsalainen,  Paavo,  22,  107 
rural  areas:  economic  assistance  for,  67; 
police  organization  in,  333;  p>ostal  ser- 
vices for,  198;  shift  of  population  from, 
73,  83-84,  85 
Russia:  attempt  to  control  Finland  by,  7; 
fears  of,  23;  in  Great  Northern  War, 
1 3 ;  influence  of,  3 ,  7 ;  interest  in  Baltic 
area  of,  12;  invasion  by  Swedes  of,  7 ; 
invasions  of  Finland  by,  13,  15,  16; 
military  assistance  in  civil  war  by,  30; 
in  Napoleonic  wars,  15-16;  occupation 
of  Finland  by,  13,  15,  293;  repression 
by,  24-25;  revolution  in,  25,  26;  as 
trading  partner,  21 
Russian  Empire  {see  also  Grand  Duchy  of 
Finland;  Russification);  collapse  of, 
26-27,  29,  142,  220;  Finland's  incor- 
poration into,  xxiii,  xxv-xxvi,  3,  16, 
102,  207,  293;  Finnish  army  under,  23, 
24;  repressive  measures  of,  23-26 
Russian  Orthodox  Church,  110-11 
Russification:  February  Manifesto  of 
1899,  23;  Finnish  protest  in  Great 
Address,  23-24;  Language  Manifesto 
of  1900,  23-24;  military  service  law, 
294;  objective  for  complete,  26;  policy 


439 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


for,  40,  220;  resistance  to,  xxvi,  25 
Rus  (Swedes),  5 

RVL.  See  Frontier  Guard  (Rajavartiolai- 

tos:  RVL) 
Rybachiy  Peninsula,  45 
rye,  167 
Ryti,  Risto,  54 

Saarinen,  Aame,  257 
Saimaa  Canal,  197 

St.  Petersburg  (j^^  fl/jo  Leningrad;  Petro- 
grad),  xxiii,  xxvi,  16,  17,  23,  25,  81, 
298 

SAJ.  See  Finnish  Trade  Union  Federation 

(Suomen  Ammattijarjesto:  SAJ) 
SAK.  See  Central  Organization  of  Finnish 

Trade  Unions  (Suomen  Ammattiliit- 

tojen  Keskusjarjesto:  SAK) 
Salla  sector,  45 
Salpausselka  Ridges,  75,  76 
Sami.  See  Lapps  (Sami) 
Sami  language,  94 
Sami  Litto,  95 
Sami  Parlamenta,  95 
Santahamina,  318 
Satakunta  Lapland,  75 
Satakunta  wing.  See  air  force 
sawmill  machinery,  186 
Scandinavia,  9 
Scandinavian  Keel  Ridge,  76 
schools:  for  handicapped  children,  127- 

28;  for  Swedish  language,  99 
school  system,  elementary  and  secondary, 

113-16 

School  System  Act  (1968),  113 

SDP.  See  Finnish  Social  Democratic 
Party  (Suomen  Sosialidemokraattinen 
Puolue:  SDP) 

Sea  Guard.  See  Coast  Guard 

Security  Police  (Suojelupoliisi:  SUPO), 
XX,  332,  333,  335-36 

self-government,  240-43 

self-sufficiency  policy,  161,  164-65,  199 

service  sector  {see  also  banking;  commu- 
nications; finance;  transportation; 
tourism),  xvii,  147,  178,  191-99;  ex- 
ports of,  204 

SFP.  See  Swedish  People's  Party  (Svenska 
Folkpartiet:  SFP) 

shipbuilding  industry  {see  also  icebreaker 
manufacture),  56,  57,  143,  147,  151,  179, 
187-88;  mUitary  ships  from,  329-30 


shipping  {see  also  merchant  marine),  con- 
version from  wood  to  iron  hulls,  21; 
defense  of  lanes,  309;  as  export,  204; 
German,  49 

ships,  195,  328;  of  Coast  Guard,  337-38; 
container,  187;  of  navy,  310-12;  for 
ocean  exploration,  187;  oceangoing, 
195,  197-98 

sickness  insurance.  See  health  insurance 

Sickness  Insurance  Act  (1963),  122,  129 

Sigismund  (king  of  Sweden- Finland),  1 1 

Siilasvuo,  Hjalmar,  52 

silver  deposits,  176 

the  Sinai,  327 

Single  European  Act,  285 

Sinisalo,  Taisto,  257 

Sisu-Auto  (SISU),  329-30 

SKDL.  See  Finnish  People's  Democratic 
League  (Suomen  Kansan  Demokraat- 
tinen  Liitto:  SKDL) 

SKL.  See  Finnish  Christian  League  (Suo- 
men Kristillinen  Liitto:  SKL) 

SKP.  See  Communist  Party  of  Finland 
(Suomen  Kommunistinen  Puolue: 
SKP) 

SKP-Y.  See  Finnish  Communist  Party- 
Unity  (Suomen  Kommunistinen 
Puolue- Yhtenaiyys:  SKP-Y) 

slaughterhouse  equipment  manufacture, 
190 

sledding  season,  169 

SMP.  See  Finnish  Rural  Party  (Suomen 

Maaseudun  Puolue:  SMP) 
Snellman,  Johan  Vilhelm,  19 
snow.  See  precipitation 
SNS.    See  Finnish-Soviet  Peace  and 

Friendship  Society  (Suomen-Neuvo- 

stoliiton  rauhan  ja  ystavyyden  seura: 

SNS) 

Social  Democratic  Union  of  Workers  and 
SmeJl  Farmers  (Tyovaen  ja  Pienvil- 
jelijain  Sosialidemokraattinen  Liitto: 
TPSL),  62,  250 

socialism,  29 

social  reform,  27,  38 

Social  Security  Institute,  120,  124 

social  security  taxes,  155 

social  structure:  classes  within,  87-90; 
mobility  within,  xxxii,  85-86;  transfor- 
mation of,  xxxii,  84-85,  87 

Social  Welfare  Act  (1982),  126 

social  welfare  system  {see  also  health  insur- 
ance;  housing   allowances;  income 


440 


Index 


security  programs;  pension  plan,  na- 
tional), xvii,  xxxiii,  63-64,  74,  87,  120; 
characteristics  of,  119-20;  development 
of,  118-19;  expansion  of,  145-46;  sub- 
sidies for,  125-26 

society,  medieval,  7,  9 

Society  for  the  Promotion  of  Lapp  Cul- 
ture, 95 

Sodankyla,  94 

Solzhenitsyn,  Aleksandr,  275 

Sorsa,  Kalevi,  66,  250,  256,  264;  admmis- 
tration  of,  265-66 

Soviet-Finnish  agreement  (1940):  Aland 
Islands  demilitarization  under,  298 

Soviet-Finnish  peace  treaty  (1944):  of 
Continuation  War,  50 

Soviet  Union,  34,  79;  in  Allied  Control 
Commission,  54;  annexation  of  Saimaa 
waterway  by,  197;  attacks  Finland 
(1939),  xxviii,  41,  44,  295,  298;  atten- 
tion to  Poland  and  Balkans  by,  49; 
bases  and  ports  of,  44,  280,  291, 
299-301;  boundary  with,  75;  conflict 
with  Finland  of,  39;  cooperation  and 
accommodation  of  Finland  with,  4, 
53-54,  62-63,  210-13;  crises  with,  60; 
defeats  in  Winter  War  of,  44-45;  fear 
of  German  resurgence,  60;  fleet  block- 
aded, 49;  Foreign  Trade  Bank  of,  21 1 ; 
imports  of  energy  resources  from, 
174-76;  interest  in  Finland  of,  291, 
299;  intervention  in  Finnish  politics  by, 
60;  losses  in  Winter  War  by,  47;  non- 
aggression  pact  with  Finland,  40;  offen- 
sives against  Finland,  48,  49;  position 
on  Nordic  NWFZ  proposal,  277;  prox- 
imity of  military  of,  300-301;  purges 
in,  256;  relations  with  Finland  of,  52, 
55-56,  218-19,  278-82;  reparations 
from  Finland  to,  xxviii,  xxxii,  52, 
62-63,  185,  199,  200,  204,  207,  211, 
280;  return  of  Porkkala  Peninsula  by, 
57,  280;  role  in  Note  Crisis  of,  60-61; 
as  source  of  military  equipment,  327- 
29;  sphere  of  influence  (1939),  42;  terri- 
tory ceded  to,  xxviii,  45;  trade  with, 
xxxii,  62-63,  143,  145,  146,  174,  204, 
207,  208,  210-13;  in  Winter  War,  41-47 

spending,  government,  63-64,  153, 
154-56;  defense  spending,  xx,  323-24, 
325;  for  research  and  development, 
182-83;  for  technology  research  and  de- 
velopment, 182-83 


Sprengtporten,  Goran,  15,  16 

SSTP.  See  Finnish  Socialist  Workers' 

Party  (Suomen  Sosialistinen  Tyovaen- 

puolue:  SSTP) 
Stahlberg,  Kaarlo  Juho,  33,  34,  37 
Stalin,  Joseph,  256,  297 
Stalingrad,  49 

standing  forces,  xix-xx,  291,  292,  303 
State  Alcohol  Monopoly,  128-29 
state  churches  {see  also  Lutheran  Church 
of  Finland;  Orthodox  Church  of  Fin- 
land), xvi,  74,  104-6,  110 
state-controlled  enterprises:  airlines,  198; 

in  mineral  industries,  177 
State  Granary,  205 

State  Investment  Fund  and  Regional  De- 
velopment Bank,  193 

state-owned  enterprises,  141,  150,  151;  in 
chemical  industry,  190;  in  energy  sup- 
ply, 174;  in  metal  production,  186;  mo- 
nopolies among,  151;  sale  of  shgures  for, 
151-52 

state-owned  forests,  170 

state-owned  land,  170 

State  Publishing  Office,  234 

State  Technical  Research  Institute,  182 

STK.  See  Confederation  of  Finnish  Em- 
ployers (Suomen  Tyonantajain  Keskus- 
liitto:  STK) 

stock  exchange,  193,  194-95 

Stockholm,  xxiii 

Stolypin,  Pyotr,  25 

stone  deposits,  177 

Strategic  Arms  Limitation  Talks  (SALT), 
278 

strategic  location,  291;  of  Finland,  42; 
military  importance  of,  298-300 

strikes  {see  also  generzil  strikes;  labor  con- 
flict; labor  unions),  xxxi,  58,  159 

Study  Allowances  Act  (1972),  116 

study  centers,  118 

submarines,  311;  Soviet,  299 

subsidies:  to  subscription  magazines,  271 

substance  abuse.  See  drug  use 

Suez  Canal,  327 

suffrage:  universal,  243,  258;  for  women, 

xxvi,  25,  38 
sugar  beets,  169 
sulfur  deposits,  176 
Suomalaiset  tribe,  5 
Suomenselka  bogland,  75 
Suomi  (Finland),  5 
Suominen,  Ilkka,  255 


441 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


Suomussalmi,  52 

SUPO.  See  Security  Police  (Suojelupoliisi: 
SUPO) 

Supplicationists  (revivalist  movement), 
108 

Supreme  Administrative  Court,  235,  237- 
38,  274 

Supreme  Court,  230,  235,  236-37,  238, 
341 

Survivors'  Pension  Plan,  121 
Suursaari  Island,  50 
Svecoman  movement,  19 
Svensk  Presstjanst,  271 
Svinhufvud,  Pehr  Evind,  29,  33,  37 
Svir  River,  49 

swamps  £ind  bogs,  xvi,  75,  79,  195 
Sweden,  79,  85,  87,  276;  boundary  with, 
74;  cedes  Finland  to  Russia,  xxiii,  16, 
96;  creation  of  empire,  12;  declares  war 
against  Russia,  15;  dual  kingdom  with 
Finland  of,  xxiii,  219,  293;  emigration 
of  Finns  to,  81;  Finnish  investment  in, 
205;  foreign  policy  of,  12;  in  Great 
Northern  War,  12-13;  influence  of 
Gustav  I  Vasa  on,  12;  integration  of 
Finland  into,  xxiii,  3,  7;  military  in- 
tervention in  Aland  Islands  dispute, 
39;  neutrality  and  nonedignment  of, 
291,  298;  peace  with  Muscovy  by,  10; 
power  and  influence  over  Finland,  5, 
15;  rule  by,  3,  12-16;  separates  from 
Denmark,  10;  as  source  of  military 
equipment,  xx,  327-29;  struggle  for 
power  by,  10;  as  trading  partner,  63, 
204 

Swedish  People's  Assembly  (Svenska  Fin- 
lands  Folkting),  99 

Swedish  People's  Party  (Svenska  Folk- 
partiet:  SFP),  xxvi,  xxx,  34,  66,  67,  99, 
218,  246;  alliance  widi  SDP  of,  258;  de- 
velopment and  activity  of,  258-59; 
news  agency  of,  271 ;  representation  in 
Eduskunta  of,  259,  264,  265,  267 

Swedish  speakers  {see  also  Svecomcin 
movement),  24,  34,  35,  67,  73,  81,  93, 
96-101;  Alanders  as,  39,  96,  221;  early 
setders,  xxiii;  guarantee  for  language 
of,  xxvii,  258;  nationalist  movement  of, 
19;  representation  among,  67,  99-101, 
259;  rights  limited  for,  252;  as  ruling 
minority,  xxiv,  15 

Swedish  Vikings,  5 

Synod  (Lutheran  Church),  109 


Syria,  327 


TampeUa,  330 

Tampere,  84,  336 

Tampere-Pirkkala,  313 

tanks,  328-29;  T-72,  T-55,  308 

Tanner,  Vaino,  33,  34,  47,  60,  248-49; 

negotiation  with  Soviet  Union  by,  43 
Tapiola,  xxxiii,  136 
tariffs,  209 
Tavastians  tribe,  5 
taxes.  See  fiscal  policy 
technology,  182-83;  emphasis  on  high, 

188-89;  for  wood  processing,  184 
Technology  Development  Center  (Tekno- 

logian  Kehittamiskeskus:  TEKES), 

189,  206 
technology  parks,  183 
telecommunications  services,  xviii,  195, 

198 

telephone  systems,  198 
television,  271-72 
Temperamce  Act,  333 
tenant  farmers,  38 

territory  ceded,  xxviii,  45,  144,  162;  to 

Soviet  Union  (1940),  295 
terrorism,  31-32,  36-37 
Teutonic  Knights,  7 
textile  industry,  21,  151,  190-91,  201 
Third  ParUamentary  Defense  Committee, 

305,  324 

Third  World  countries:  aid  to,  207,  283; 

relations  of  Finland  with,  285 
Thirty  Years'  War,  12 
Thomson-CSF  radar,  313 
Tikkakoski,  313 
Tilsit,  16 

timber  industry,  xxviii,  xxxii,  20,  63; 

labor  force  decline  for,  73 
Timoshenko,  S.  K.,  45 
topography,  xvi,  75-79,  301-2 
torpedo  boats,  311 
tourist  industry,  199,  204 
town  courts.  See  court  system 
TPSL.  See  Social  Democratic  Union  of 

Workers  and  Small  Farmers  (Tyovaen 

ja  Pienviljelijain  Sosialidemokraattinen 

Liitto:  TPSL) 
tractor  manufacture,  186 
trade  liberalization,  142,  145,  146,  150, 

179;  effect  of,  185 
trade  performance,  200,  206 


442 


Index 


trade  policy  {see  also  export  licensing;  im- 
port controls;  protectionism);  barter 
trade  with  Soviet  Union,  xxxii,  207, 
211;  dumping  of  agricultural  products, 
164;  for  energy  resources,  174-75;  in- 
fluence of  Soviet  Union  on,  208;  liber- 
alization of,  XXV,  142,  200,  209; 
postwar,  204-5;  for  Western  Europe, 
xxxii,  208-10 

trade  unions,  xxxi,  21,  34,  58,  158 

trading  partners,  xvii,  63 

transportation  {see  also  rivers;  waterways, 
inland);  manufacture  of  equipment  for, 
187-88;  pipeline,  175;  rail,  water,  and 
air,  195;  by  truck,  195,  197 

transportation  sector  {see  also  automobile 
industry;  railroad  locomotives;  ship- 
building industry),  85,  147,  173;  pub- 
lic, 199 

Treaty  of  Brest-Litovsk  (1918),  30 
Treaty  of  Commerce  (1947)  {see  also  Five- 

Year  Framework  Agreement),  62-63, 

211 

Treaty  of  Dorpat,  or  Tartu  (1920),  35, 
38,  39,  53 

Treaty  of  Fredrikshamn,  16 

Treaty  of  Friendship,  Cooperation  and 
Mutual  Assistance:  FCMA(1948):  in- 
fluence of,  281;  meaning  for  Finland 
and  Soviet  Union  of,  279,  291-92,  297; 
neutrality  conception,  275,  279;  in  Note 
Crisis,  60-61 ;  provisions  of,  xix,  xxix, 
55-56,  254,  325-26;  renewal  of,  xxix, 
264,  297 

Treaty  of  Hamina,  16 

Treaty  of  Helsinki  (1962),  283 

Treaty  of  Paris  (1947),  xix,  xxix,  54,  62, 
279,  291;  Aland  Islands  demilitariza- 
tion under,  298;  requirements  for 
Finland  of,  296-97,  311,  325-26 

Treaty  of  Varala,  15 

Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  278 

Trotsky,  Leon,  30 

Turku,  17,  19,  84,  102,  109,  235,  269, 
312;  Chambers  of  Police  in,  332-33; 
court  of  appeal  in,  237;  in  medieval 
times,  9 

Turku  diocese,  9,  12,  108 

Turku  ja  Pori  Province,  81,  84,  240 

TVK.  See  Confederation  of  Salaried  Em- 
ployees and  Civil  Servants  (Toimi- 
henkilo   ja  Virkamiesjarjestojen 


Keskushitto:  TVK) 


UBF.  See  Union  Bank  of  Finland  (Suo- 
men  Yhdyspankki:  UBF) 

unemployment,  xviii,  120,  141,  154,  156; 
assistance  for,  119-20;  insurance  for, 
123-24;  programs  to  reduce,  157-58 

Unemployment  Security  Act  (1984),  123 

Union  Bank  of  Finland  (Suomen  Yh- 
dyspankki: UBF),  193 

unions.  See  agricultural  unions;  trade 
unions 

United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Elimi- 
nation of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination 
Against  Women  (1986),  92 

United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP),  286 

United  Nations  Disengagement  Observ- 
er Force  (UNDOF),  327 

United  Nations  Emergency  Force  II 
(UNEF  II),  327 

United  Nations  Emergency  Fund 
(UNEF),  327 

United  Nations  Force  in  Cyprus  (UN- 
FICYP),  327 

United  Nations  Interim  Force  (UNIFIL), 
327 

United  Nations  (UN),  xix,  xxix,  57,  219, 
276,  277,  280,  283,  286;  Finland's  role 
in,  326-27;  policy  of  Finland  in,  286 

United  States:  Department  of  Defense  of, 
301;  economic  assistance  from,  143; 
Export-Import  Bank  credits  from,  57, 
144;  Finnish  investment  in,  205;  For- 
eign Military  Sales  Program,  329;  im- 
migration of  Finns  to,  22;  investment 
by  Finnish  firms  in,  181;  relations  of 
Finland  with,  285;  respect  for  Finland 
of,  49;  as  source  of  military  equipment, 
XX,  327-29;  as  trading  partner,  63,  175, 
204 

United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disar- 
mament Agency,  324 

University  of  Helsinki,  xxv,  12,  19,  99, 
116 

University  of  Lapland,  116 
University  of  Turku,  17,  19 
university  system,  115,  116-17 
upland  Finland,  75,  76,  79 
upper  class,  89-90 
uranium,  174 


443 


Finland:  A  Country  Study 


urban  areas:  shift  of  population  to,  67,  73, 

83-84,  85 
Ustinov,  Dmitri,  282 
Utsjoki,  94 

Uusimaa  Province,  80,  84,  240 
Uutiskeskus  (UK),  271 


Vaasa,  237 

Vaasa  Province,  167,  240 

Valmet  Group,  151-52,  188,  329-30 

ValviUa,  151 

vanadium  deposits,  177 

Vantaa  (Helsinki  suburb),  84,  340 

Vapo,  174 

Vasa,  Gustav,  10 

Vasteras,  10 

Vayrynen,  Paavo,  253,  266,  267-69 
vegetable  crops,  167 
Vennamo,  Pekka,  260 
Vennamo,  Veikko,  62,  260 
Viipuri,  9,  10,  13,  45,  197 
Viking  Age,  5 
Virolainen,  Johannes,  253 
vocational  course  centers,  118 
Volga  River  basin,  4 
Vyborg.  See  Viipuri 


wages  {see  also  income  security  programs); 
in  industrial  sector,  178;  settlements 
for,  152,  154,  158-60;  structure  of, 
86-87 

War  College,  319 

war  crimes  trials,  54,  60 

War  of  Independence,  32 

Warsaw  Pact,  291,  299 

Wartsila,  188,  330 

waterways,  inland  {see  also  canals;  float- 
ways;  lakes;  rivers),  xviii,  21,  169,  195, 
197 

We  Demand  {me  vaadimme),  27 
Welfare   for  Intoxicant   Abusers  Act 

(1985),  128 
Welfare  of  the  Disabled  Act  (1946),  126 
welfare  state.  See  social  welfare  system 
West  Berlin,  60 

Western  Europe.  See  Europe,  Western 
wheat,  167 


White  Army,  294 

White  Guards,  3-4,  25,  27,  29-31,  294; 

after  winning  civil  war,  31-32;  Civil 

Guard  derivation  from,  295 
White  Sea,  35 
White  Terror,  31-32 
winter  {see  also  sledding  season),  76,  79, 

160,  169,  195,  197,  301,  302 
Winter  War  (1939-40),  xxviii,  41-47,  48, 

144,  162,  285,  324;  causes  of,  42-43; 

Finland's  losses  in,  47;  lessons  of,  292, 

326 

Wittenberg,  11 

women  {see  also  feminist  movement);  of 
Civil  Guard,  36;  in  Defense  Forces  and 
air  force,  315-16,  325;  in  labor  force, 
38,  91,  262;  mortality  rate  among,  132; 
in  police  force,  332;  role  in  politics  of, 
262;  role  in  society  of,  73,  91-93;  suf- 
frage for,  xxvi,  25,  38,  91;  wage  dis- 
crimination for,  92 

wood  as  energy  source,  174 

wood-processing  industries  {see  also  lum- 
ber industry;  paper  industry),  20-21, 
141,  143-44,  147,  150,  169,  179, 
183-84;  mergers  among,  184,  193; 
productivity  of,  147;  state  ownership  in, 
151 

wood  pulp  industry,  xxviii,  21,  38,  56,  57, 
63,  143,  173 

workmen's  compensation,  124 

work  stoppages,  159-60 

World  Bank,  208,  276 

World  Health  Organization,  132 

World  War  I,  25-26 

World  War  II  {see  also  Continuation  War 
(1940-44);  Winter  War  (1939-40));  ef- 
fect on  Finland  of,  xxviii,  52-53,  56, 
97,  217;  emigration  after,  81 

YLE.  See  Finnish  Broadcasting  Compa- 
ny (Yleisradio:  YLE) 

Young  Finn  Party,  xxv,  xxvi,  24,  34,  254, 
259 


Zhdanov,  Andrei,  54 

zinc  deposits,  176,  177,  186 


444 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-98 

Albania 

550-87 

Greece 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-59 

Angola 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-82 

Guyana 

550-169 

Australia 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-176 

Austria 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-21 

India 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-68 

Iran 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-61 

Burma 

550-25 

Israel 

550-37 

Burundi/Rwanda 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic/Haiti 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-167 

Finland 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-46 

Panama 

445 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-42 

Peru 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-72 

550-97 

T  Tniomav 

550-162 

Poland 

550-71 

V  CllCZiUCla 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-160 

Romania 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

550-67 

550-180 

Siprrfl  T  .fonf 

550-75 

£j  alii  LI  id 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

550-95 

^f\\7if*t  TTnir^n 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  T  sinirsi 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

550-53 

Thailand 

446 


PIN:  006979-000 


