area  handbook  series 

Ghana 

a  country  study 


Ghana 

a  country  study 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
LaVerle  Berry 
Research  Completed 
November  1  994 


On  the  cover:  Gold  weight  in  the  form  of  a  portrait 
mask  (Asante) 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1995. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Ghana  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library 
of  Congress  ;  edited  by  LaVerle  Berry. — 3rd  ed. 

p.  cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  Pam;  550-153) 

"Supersedes  the  1971  edition  of  Ghana  :  a  country 
study,  coauthored  by  Irving  Kaplan  et  al." — T.p.  verso. 

"Research  completed  November  1994." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  319-349)  and 
index. 

ISBN  0-8444-0835-2  (he  :  alk.  paper) 
1.  Ghana.  I.  Berry,  LaVerle  Bennette,  1942-  .  II. 
Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III. 
Series.  IV.  Series:  DA  Pam  ;  550-153 
DT510.G44  1995  95-18891 
966.7— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-153 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared 
by  the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress 
under  the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  spon- 
sored by  the  Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  two  pages  of  this 
book  list  the  other  published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  coun- 
try, describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and 
national  security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the 
interrelationships  of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are 
shaped  by  cultural  factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisci- 
plinary  team  of  social  scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a 
basic  understanding  of  the  observed  society,  striving  for  a 
dynamic  rather  than  a  static  portrayal.  Particular  attention  is 
devoted  to  the  people  who  make  up  the  society,  their  origins, 
dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  common  interests  and  the 
issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature  and  extent  of  their 
involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their  attitudes 
toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and  political 
order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should 
not  be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States 
government  position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have 
sought  to  adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity. 
Corrections,  additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  read- 
ers will  be  welcomed  for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  DC  20540-5220 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of  the 
coauthors  of  the  1971  edition  of  Ghana:  A  Country  Study.  Their 
work  provided  general  background  for  the  present  volume. 

The  authors  also  gratefully  acknowledge  the  numerous  indi- 
viduals in  various  government  agencies  and  private  institutions 
who  gave  of  their  time,  research  materials,  and  expertise  in  the 
production  of  this  book.  These  individuals  include  Ralph  K. 
Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook 
program  for  the  Department  of  the  Army. 

The  staff  of  the  Federal  Research  Division  who  contributed 
directly  to  preparation  of  the  manuscript  also  deserve  recogni- 
tion. These  people  include  Sandra  W.  Meditz,  who  reviewed  all 
drafts  and  served  as  liaison  with  the  sponsoring  agency;  Mari- 
lyn L.  Majeska,  who  managed  editing  and  production;  Andrea 
T.  Merrill,  who  edited  tables  and  figures;  Ramon  Miro  and  Tim 
L.  Merrill,  who  provided  research  support;  and  Barbara  Edger- 
ton  and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  word  processing.  Stephen  C. 
Cranton,  David  R  Cabitto,  and  Janie  L.  Gilchrist  prepared  the 
camera-ready  copy. 

Also  involved  in  preparing  the  text  were  Peter  J.  Tietjen,  who 
edited  the  text;  Helen  Chapin  Metz,  who  helped  with  editing; 
and  Carolyn  Hinton,  who  performed  the  prepublication  edito- 
rial review.  Joan  C.  Cook  compiled  the  index. 

David  R  Cabitto  prepared  the  graphics.  Harriett  R.  Blood 
prepared  the  topography  and  drainage  map;  Thomas  D.  Hall 
drafted  the  remaining  maps.  David  R  Cabitto  and  the  firm  of 
Greenhorne  and  O'Mara  prepared  the  final  maps.  Special 
thanks  go  to  Teresa  Kamp,  who  prepared  the  illustrations  on 
the  title  page  of  each  chapter  and  the  cover  art. 

The  editor  and  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of 
the  Embassy  of  Ghana,  the  White  House,  James  Sanders,  and 
Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper  Le  Van,  who  allowed  their  photo- 
graphs to  be  used  in  this  study.  Staff  of  the  Embassy  of  Ghana 
in  addition  provided  invaluable  guidance  in  the  drafting  of  the 
rank  and  insignia  charts.  Finally,  the  editor  wishes  to  acknowl- 
edge the  support  given  by  authors  David  Owusu-Ansah,  Max- 
well Owusu,  and  Thomas  R  Ofcansky  to  this  volume.  Their 
devotion  clearly  exceeded  the  normal  call  of  duty. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword   iii 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface   xiii 

Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events    xv 

Country  Profile   xix 

Introduction  xxix 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting   1 

James  L.  McLaughlin  and  David  Owusu-Ansah 

THE  PRECOLONIAL  PERIOD   5 

ARRIVAL  OF  THE  EUROPEANS   8 

Early  European  Contact  and  the  Slave  Trade   8 

Britain  and  the  Gold  Coast:  The  Early  Years   13 

THE  COLONIAL  ERA:  BRITISH  RULE  OF  THE 

GOLD  COAST   16 

Colonial  Administration  , .  17 

Economic  and  Social  Development   21 

THE  GROWTH  OF  NATIONALISM  AND  THE  END 

OF  COLONIAL  RULE   24 

Early  Manifestations  of  Nationalism   24 

The  Politics  of  the  Independence  Movements   26 

INDEPENDENT  GHANA   30 

Nkrumah,  Ghana,  and  Africa   32 

The  Growth  of  Opposition  to  Nkrumah   35 

THE  FALL  OF  THE  NKRUMAH  REGIME  AND 

ITS  AFTERMATH   36 

The  National  Liberation  Council  and  the 

Busia  Years,  1966-71   37 

The  National  Redemption  Council  Years, 

1972-79    42 

GHANA  AND  THE  RAWLINGS  ERA   46 

The  Second  Coming  of  Rawlings:  The  First  Six 


vii 


Years,  1982-87    48 

The  District  Assemblies   53 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   59 

David  Owusu-Ansah 

PHYSICAL  SETTING   62 

Location  and  Size   62 

Geographical  Regions   63 

Rivers  and  Lakes   70 

Climate   72 

POPULATION   73 

Population  Distribution   74 

Urban-Rural  Disparities   75 

Family  Planning   77 

ETHNIC  GROUPS  AND  LANGUAGES   79 

Language  Diversity   82 

Major  Ethnic  Groups   83 

SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION  AND  SOCIAL  CHANGE   90 

Traditional  Patterns  of  Social  Relations   90 

Social  Change   93 

Urban  Society   96 

The  Position  of  Women   99 

RELIGION  AND  SOCIETY   102 

Christianity  and  Islam  in  Ghana   104 

Traditional  Religion   107 

Syncretic  Religions   108 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   109 

HealthCare   Ill 

Acquired  Immune  Deficiency 

Syndrome  (AIDS)   114 

SOCIAL  WELFARE   115 

EDUCATION   117 

The  Education  System   120 

Problems  in  Education   123 

Adult  Education   124 

Chapter  3.  The  Economy   129 

Nancy  L.  Clark 

HISTORICAL  BACKGROUND   1 32 

OVERVIEW  OF  THE  CURRENT  ECONOMY   1 36 

STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY   137 

viii 


Gross  Domestic  Product   139 

Debt  and  Inflation   140 

Trade   140 

ROLE  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT   1 44 

The  Economic  Recovery  Program   144 

State  Enterprises   146 

Budgets   148 

BANKING  AND  CURRENCY   150 

Banking   151 

Currency   153 

LABOR  FORCE   155 

National  Requirements   155 

Income  and  Wages   157 

AGRICULTURE   158 

Cocoa   160 

Other  Commercial  Crops   162 

Food  Crops  and  Livestock   164 

Forestry   165 

Fishing   167 

MINING  AND  PETROLEUM  INDUSTRIES   1 68 

Gold   169 

Diamonds   173 

Manganese   173 

Petroleum  Exploration   174 

MANUFACTURING  AND  TOURISM   1 75 

Manufacturing   175 

Electric  Power   178 

Tourism   179 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  TELECOMMUNICATIONS ....  180 

Roads  and  Railroads   181 

Ports  and  Shipping   181 

Civil  Aviation   183 

Telecommunications   183 

FOREIGN  INVESTMENTS  AND  ASSISTANCE   1 84 

Investment   186 

Foreign  Assistance  and  Loans   187 

Balance  of  Trade  and  Payments   188 

GROWTH  TRENDS  AND  POTENTIAL   1 89 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   191 

Maxwell  Owusu 


IX 


THE  PROVISIONAL  NATIONAL  DEFENCE  COUNCIL. . .  194 

The  Political  Scene  under  the  PNDC   196 

Revolutionary  Organs   199 

THE  TRANSITION  FROM  MILITARY  RULE  TO 

DEMOCRATIC  GOVERNMENT   200 

Political  Ferment  under  the  PNDC   200 

Interest  Groups  and  National  Politics   203 

District  Assembly  Elections   206 

Charting  the  Political  Transition   208 

Presidential  Elections   211 

Parliamentary  Elections   215 

THE  FOURTH  REPUBLIC   216 

The  1992  Constitution   216 

The  Judiciary   219 

The  Civil  Service   222 

The  Media   222 

Regional  and  Local  Government   224 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS  UNDER  THE 

FOURTH  REPUBLIC   227 

Launching  the  Fourth  Republic   227 

Developing  Democratic  Institutions   230 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS   235 

Guiding  Principles  and  Objectives   235 

Relations  with  Immediate  African  Neighbors   237 

The  Organization  of  African  Unity 

and  the  Rest  of  Africa   243 

Britain  and  the  Commonwealth   245 

The  United  States   246 

Other  Countries   248 

International  Organizations   251 

FUTURE  DEMOCRATIC  PROSPECTS   252 

Chapter  5.  National  Security   255 

Thomas  P.  Ofcansky 

INTERNATIONAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS   258 

INTERNAL  SECURITY  CONCERNS   260 

THE  ARMED  FORCES  IN  NATIONAL  LIFE   261 

The  Armed  Forces  in  the  Past   262 

The  Development  of  the  Modern  Army   268 

THE  MILITARY  AND  THE  GOVERNMENT   270 

The  National  Liberation  Council,  1966-69   270 


x 


The  Acheampong  Regime,  1972-78   271 

The  Akuffo  Coup,  1978   272 

The  1979  Coup  and  the  First  Rawlings 

Government   273 

The  1981  Coup  and  the  Second  Rawlings 

Government   273 

THE  MILITARY  AND  THE  ECONOMY   276 

ARMED  FORCES  MISSION,  ORGANIZATION, 

AND  STRENGTH   277 

MILITARY  MANPOWER,  TRAINING,  AND  MORALE   278 

Manpower   278 

Training   279 

Morale   281 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia   282 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  ASSISTANCE   282 

Britain   283 

Canada. .   286 

Soviet  Union   286 

German  Democratic  Republic   288 

China   288 

Israel   289 

United  States   289 

Italy   289 

Libya   290 

STATE  SECURITY  SERVICES   290 

CRIMINAL  JUSTICE   293 

Criminal  Code  and  Courts   294 

Prison  System   296 

HUMAN  RIGHTS   298 

MILITARY  TRENDS   301 

Appendix.  Tables   305 

Bibliography   319 

Glossary   351 

Index   355 

Contributors   379 

List  of  figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ghana,  1994   xxviii 

xi 


2  Asante  Expansion  and  Major  European  Fortresses 

in  the  Eighteenth  Century   10 

3  Administrative  Divisions  of  the  Gold  Coast, 

mid-1950s   18 

4  Topography  and  Drainage   66 

5  Estimated  Population  by  Age  and  Gender,  1990  —  76 

6  Principal  Ethnolinguistic  Groups   80 

7  Economic  Activity,  1994    138 

8  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1991  ...  142 

9  Employment  by  Sector,  1988    156 

10  Transportation  System,  1994    182 

1 1  Structure  of  Provisional  National  Defence  Council 

(PNDC),  1982-88    198 

12  Structure  of  Government  of  the  Fourth 

Republic,  1994    218 

13  Structure  of  Local  Government,  1994   226 

14  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1994    284 

15  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1994    285 


xii 


Preface 


This  study  replaces  Ghana:  A  Country  Study,  which  was  com- 
pleted in  1971  during  the  second  effort  to  establish  republican 
government  in  Ghana  under  Kofi  Abrefa  Busia.  Since  then, 
Ghana  has  experienced  four  military  governments  and  a  third 
attempt  at  representative  democracy  before  the  inauguration 
of  the  Fourth  Republic  in  January  1993.  Since  the  early  1980s, 
the  dominant  developments  in  Ghana  have  been  the  adoption 
of  an  economic  structural  adjustment  program  backed  by 
international  lending  agencies  and  a  prolonged  transition  to  a 
new  form  of  elective  government,  both  presided  over  by  a  mili- 
tary government  headed  by  Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John  Rawl- 
ings.  Rawlings  continues  to  dominate  political  life,  having  been 
elected  president  in  national  elections  in  November  1992,  one 
of  the  crucial  steps  in  the  latest  attempt  at  representative  gov- 
ernment. 

This  edition  of  Ghana:  A  Country  Study  examines  the  record 
of  the  military  government  after  1981  and  of  the  first  two  years 
of  the  Fourth  Republic,  1992-94.  Subsequent  events  are  dis- 
cussed in  the  Introduction. 

This  study  is  an  attempt  to  treat  in  a  concise  and  objective 
manner  the  dominant  historical,  social,  economic,  political, 
and  national  security  aspects  of  contemporary  Ghana.  Sources 
of  information  used  in  preparing  this  volume  include  scholarly 
books,  journals,  and  monographs;  official  reports  of  govern- 
ments and  international  organizations;  Ghanaian  newspapers; 
the  authors'  previous  research  and  observations;  and  numer- 
ous periodicals.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of 
the  book;  brief  comments  on  some  of  the  more  valuable 
sources  recommended  for  further  reading  appear  at  the  end  of 
each  chapter. 

All  measurements  in  this  book  are  given  in  the  metric  sys- 
tem. A  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  those  readers  who 
are  unfamiliar  with  metric  measurements  (see  table  1,  Appen- 
dix) .  A  Glossary  is  also  included  to  explain  terms  with  which 
the  reader  may  not  be  familiar. 

Place-names  follow  the  system  adopted  by  the  United  States 
Board  on  Geographic  Names  (BGN) .  The  authors  have  fol- 
lowed current  and  more  accurate  usage  by  using  the  term 
Asante  rather  than  Ashanti  in  referring  to  one  of  the  most 


xiii 


prominent  of  Ghana's  peoples  and  indigenous  states.  The  term 
Ashanti,  which  was  generally  employed  during  the  pre-indepen- 
dence  period,  does,  however,  still  appear  in  some  geographic 
and  commercial  contexts.  The  reader  should  refer  to  the  Glos- 
sary for  further  explanation. 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of 
November  1994.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however, 
have  been  updated.  The  Introduction  discusses  significant 
events  that  have  occurred  since  the  completion  of  research,  the 
Country  Profile  and  Chronology  include  updated  information 
as  available,  and  the  Bibliography  lists  recently  published 
sources  thought  to  be  particularly  helpful  to  the  reader. 


xiv 


Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period 


Description 


EARLY  HISTORY 
ca.  10,000  B.C. 

ca.  4000  B.C. 

ca.  100  B.C. 

FORMATIVE 
CENTURIES 

ca.  AD.  1200 

ca.  1298 

1471-82 

1500-1807 

1697-1745 

NINETEENTH 
CENTURY 

1843-44 

1873-74 

1874 

1878 

1896 

TWENTIETH 
CENTURY 

1900 

1902 

1914-18 

1919 

1925 


Earliest  recorded  probable  human  habitation  within  modern  Ghana  at 
site  on  Oti  River. 

Oldest  date  for  pottery  at  Stone  Age  site  near  Accra. 

Early  Iron  Age  at  Tema. 


Guan  begin  their  migrations  down  Volta  Basin  from  Gonja  toward  Gulf 
of  Guinea. 

Akan  kingdom  of  Bono  (Brong)  founded.  Other  states  had  arisen  or 
were  beginning  to  rise  about  this  time. 

First  Europeans  arrive.  Portuguese  build  Elmina  Castle. 

Era  of  slave  raids  and  wars  and  of  intense  state  formation  in  Gold  Coast. 

Rise  and  consolidation  of  Asante  Empire. 


British  government  signs  Bond  of  1844  with  Fante  chiefs. 
Last  Asante  invasion  of  coast.  British  capture  Kumasi. 
Britain  establishes  Gold  Coast  Colony. 
Cocoa  introduced  to  Ghana. 

Anglo-Asante  war  leads  to  exile  of  asantehene  znd  British  protectorate 
over  Asante. 


First  Africans  appointed  to  colony's  Legislative  Council. 

Northern  Territories  proclaimed  a  British  protectorate. 

Gold  Coast  Regiment  serves  with  distinction  in  East  Africa. 

German  Togo  becomes  a  mandate  under  Gold  Coast  administration. 

Constitution  of  1925  calls  for  six  chiefs  to  be  elected  to  Legislative  Coun- 
cil. 


1939-45 


Gold  Coast  African  forces  serve  in  Ethiopia  and  Burma. 


XV 


Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period  Description 
1947  United  Gold  Coast  Convention  founded. 

1949  Kwame  Nkrumah  breaks  with  United  Gold  Coast  Convention  and  forms 

Convention  People's  Party. 

1951  New  constitution  leads  to  general  elections.  Convention  People's  Party 

wins  two-thirds  majority. 

1954  New  constitution  grants  broad  powers  to  Nkrumah's  government 

1956  Plebiscite  in  British  Togoland  calls  for  union  with  Gold  Coast 

Convention  People's  Party  wins  68  percent  of  seats  in  legislature  and 
passes  an  independence  motion,  which  British  Parliament  approves. 

1957  British  Colony  of  the  Gold  Coast  becomes  independent  Ghana 

on  March  6. 

1958  Entrenched  protection  clauses  of  constitution  repealed;  regional  assem- 

blies abolished;  Preventive  Detention  Act  passed. 

1960  Plebiscite  creates  a  republic  on  July  1,  with  Nkrumah  as  president 

1964  Ghana  declared  a  one-party  state.  Completion  of  Akosombo  Dam. 

1966  While  Nkrumah  is  in  China,  army  stages  widely  popular  coup.  National 

Liberation  Council  comes  to  power. 

1969  Progress  Party,  led  by  Kofi  Abrefa  Busia,  wins  National  Assembly  elec- 

tions. 

1972  Lieutenant  Colonel  Ignatius  Acheampong  leads  a  military  coup  in  Janu- 

ary that  brings  National  Redemption  Council  to  power. 

1 978  Fellow  military  officers  ease  Acheampong  from  power. 

1979  Junior  officers  stage  Ghana's  first  violent  coup,  June  4.  Armed  Forces 

Revolutionary  Council  formed  under  Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John 
Rawlings.  Hilla  Limann  elected  president  in  July. 

1981  Rawlings  stages  second  coup,  December  31.  Provisional  National 

Defence  Council  established  with  Rawlings  as  chairman. 

1 983  First  phase  of  Economic  Recovery  Program  introduced  with  World  Bank 

and  International  Monetary  Fund  support. 

1985  National  Commission  for  Democracy,  established  to  plan  the  democrati- 

zation of  Ghana's  political  system,  officially  inaugurated  in  January. 

1988-89  Elections  for  new  district  assemblies  begin  in  early  December  and  con- 

tinue through  February  1989. 

1990  Various  organizations  call  for  return  to  civilian  government  and  multi- 

parry  politics,  among  them  Movement  for  Freedom  and  Justice, 
founded  in  August. 


Table  A.  Chronology  of  Important  Events 


Period  Description 


1991  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  announces  its  acceptance,  in  May, 

of  multipartyism  in  Ghana.  June  deadline  set  for  creation  of  Consulta- 
tive Assembly  to  discuss  nation's  new  constitution. 

1992  National  referendum  in  April  approves  draft  of  new  democratic  constitu- 

tion. Formation  and  registration  of  political  parties  become  legal  in 
May.  Jerry  John  Rawlings  elected  president  November  3  in  national 
presidential  election.  Parliamentary  elections  of  December  29  boy- 
cotted by  major  opposition  parties,  resulting  in  landslide  victory  for 
National  Democratic  Congress. 

1993  Ghana's  Fourth  Republic  inaugurated  January  4  with  the  swearing  in  of 

Rawlings  as  president. 

Late  1994-  Ghana  hosts  peace  talks  for  warring  factions  of  Liberian  civil  war. 

early  1995 


1995 


President  Rawlings  pays  official  visit  to  the  United  States,  March  8-9,  first 
such  visit  by  a  Ghanaian  head  of  state  in  more  than  thirty  years. 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Republic  of  Ghana. 
Short  Form:  Ghana. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Ghanaian  (s). 
Capital:  Accra. 

Date  of  Independence:  March  6,  1957. 

Note — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


xix 


Geography 


Size:  238,533  square  kilometers,  roughly  the  size  of  the  states  of 
Illinois  and  Indiana. 

Topography:  Generally  low  physical  relief  except  in  the  east. 
Five  distinct  geographical  regions:  low  plains  inland  from 
Atlantic  coast;  northern  plateau  stretching  from  western 
border  to  Volta  River  Basin  averaging  450  meters  in  height; 
mountainous  uplands  along  eastern  border,  bisected  in  south 
by  Volta  River  Gorge;  Volta  River  Basin  in  center;  and  dissected 
plateau  up  to  300  meters  high  in  north. 

Climate:  Tropical  climate  governed  by  interaction  of  dry 
continental  airmass  from  the  northeast  and  moist  southwest 
equatorial  system.  Annual  mean  temperature  between  26°C 
and  29°C.  Annual  rainfall  varies  from  more  than  2,100 
millimeters  in  southwest  to  1,000  millimeters  in  north. 
Vegetation  heaviest  in  south,  thinning  to  savanna  and  dry 
plains  in  north. 

Society 

Population:  Estimated  at  17.2  million  in  mid-1994,  up  from 
about  6.7  million  in  1960;  approximately  half  under  age 
fifteen.  Growth  rate  more  than  3  percent  per  year  since  1980. 
1990  population  density  sixty-three  persons  per  square 
kilometer;  density  highest  in  southwestern  third  of  country, 
thinnest  in  center,  higher  in  north.  About  33  percent  urban  in 
1992. 

Ethnolinguistic  Groups:  Approximately  100  ethnolinguistic 
groups,  all  further  subdivided  into  numerous  cultural  and 
linguistic  units.  Major  ethnic  groups  are  the  Akan,  Ewe,  Mole- 
Dagbane,  Guan,  and  Ga-Adangbe.  Languages  belong  either  to 
Kwa  or  to  Gur  subfamily  of  Niger-Congo  language  family.  Kwa 
speakers,  found  to  south  of  Volta  River,  include  the  Akan,  Ewe, 
and  Ga-Adangbe.  Gur  speakers  live  north  of  Volta  River  and 
include  the  Grusi,  Gurma,  and  Mole-Dagbane.  English  is 
official  language  used  in  government,  large-scale  business, 
national  media,  and  school  beyond  primary  level.  Akan,  Ewe, 
Ga,  Nzema,  Dagbane,  and  Hausa  (a  trade  language  from 
Nigeria)  also  used  in  radio  and  television  broadcasting. 

Religion:  According  to  1985  estimate,  62  percent  Christian,  15 


xx 


percent  Muslim,  22  percent  indigenous  or  nonbelievers. 
Christians  composed  of  Protestants  (25  percent,  Methodists 
and  Presbyterians  especially  numerous),  Roman  Catholics  (15 
percent),  Protestant  Pentecostals  (8  percent),  and 
Independent  African  Churches  (about  14  percent).  Muslims 
mostly  Sunni.  Christianity  predominates  in  center  and  south, 
Islam  in  north. 

Health:  Large  number  of  infectious  diseases  endemic  to 
tropics,  including  cholera,  typhoid,  tuberculosis,  anthrax, 
pertussis,  yellow  fever,  hepatitis,  trachoma,  and  malaria.  Other 
diseases  include  schistosomiasis,  guinea  worm,  dysentery, 
onchocerciasis,  venereal  diseases,  and  poliomyelitis. 
Malnutrition  also  widespread.  Average  life  expectancy  fifty-six 
years  in  1993.  Severe  shortage  of  hospital  beds  and  doctors. 
Since  late  1980s,  government  has  emphasized  immunization 
and  primary  health  care  programs.  Incidence  of  acquired 
immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS)  second  highest  in  West 
Africa  and  rising. 

Education:  Education  system  consists  of  primary  (six  years) , 
junior  secondary  (three  years),  and  senior  secondary  (three 
years)  after  reforms  of  mid-1980s  eliminated  former  middle 
schools;  polytechnic  institutions;  and  four  universities. 
Universal  education  remains  an  unrealized  goal,  but  most 
children  have  access  to  primary  and  junior  secondary  schools. 
Local  vernacular  is  language  of  instruction  on  primary  level, 
English  thereafter.  All  students  pay  textbook  fees.  Enrollments 
for  1990-91:  primary  1.8  million,  junior  secondary  609,000, 
senior  secondary  200,000.  In  1989-90  about  11,500  students 
attended  polytechnic  schools.  Enrollment  in  universities  at 
Legon,  Kumasi,  and  Cape  Coast  totaled  9,251  in  1989-90;  in 
1993  a  fourth  university  opened  at  Tamale.  In  early  1990s,  the 
government  instituted  fees  for  boarding  and  lodging, 
provoking  student  demonstrations.  Adult  literacy  rate 
reportedly  about  40  percent  in  1989. 

Economy 

General  Character:  At  independence,  economy  based  on  cocoa 
and  gold;  country  relatively  prosperous.  After  mid-1960s, 
economy  stagnated,  characterized  by  weak  commodity 
demand,  outmoded  equipment,  overvalued  currency, 
smuggling,  and  foreign  debt.  Since  1983  Economic  Recovery 


xxi 


Program  (a  structural  adjustment  program)  has  resulted  in 
new  investment  and  rising  exports  of  cocoa,  gold,  and  timber, 
but  also  in  high  foreign  debt  and  little  improvement  in  general 
standard  of  living. 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  In  1992  GDP  was  US$6.1 
billion;  per  capita  income  US$380. 

Budget:  In  1993  about  0667  billion,  including  £119  billion 
deficit  (roughly  US$1.1  billion  and  US$187  million, 
respectively,  based  on  mid-1993  exchange  rate). 

Agriculture,  Forestry,  and  Fishing:  In  1991  agriculture  most 
important  sector  of  economy,  constituting  just  under  half  of 
GDP,  down  from  60  percent  in  1983.  Production  of  exports 
and  food  crops  fell  steadily  after  mid-1960s;  major  recovery 
began  in  1980s.  Cocoa  most  important  cash  crop;  Ghana 
world's  third  largest  cocoa  producer  as  of  1992-93  crop  year. 
Other  cash  crops — palm  oil,  cotton,  tobacco,  sugarcane, 
rubber,  and  kenaf  (used  in  fiber  bags) — much  less  important. 
Major  food  crops:  yams,  corn,  cassava,  and  other  root  crops. 
Forests  cover  southern  third  of  country.  Commercial  forestry 
major  industry;  deforestation  serious  problem.  Livestock 
production  negligible  outside  far  north.  Limited  commercial 
fishing  industry. 

Industry:  In  1960s  largest  manufacturing  industries  included 
aluminum,  saw  mills  and  timber  processing,  cocoa  processing, 
breweries,  cement,  oil  refining,  textiles,  and  vehicle  assembly. 
Factory  output  fell  as  low  as  21  percent  of  capacity  by  1982  but 
recovered  to  average  of  40  percent  in  1989.  In  early  1990s, 
many  textile,  pharmaceutical,  leather,  and  electronics  factories 
reportedly  closed  because  of  economic  liberalization  and 
foreign  competition. 

Mining:  Major  minerals  are  gold,  bauxite,  manganese,  and 
diamonds.  Mineral  production  fell  precipitously  during  1970s, 
recovered  during  1980s.  Minerals  second  highest  export 
earner  in  early  1990s.  Gold  most  important  mineral,  long 
associated  with  ancient  and  contemporary  Ghana.  Production 
in  1992  more  than  1  million  fine  ounces  and  rising,  surpassing 
cocoa  as  chief  export  earner.  One  of  world's  leading  producers 
of  manganese,  but  early  1990s  production  less  than  half  mid- 
1970s  output.  Diamonds  mostly  industrial  grade;  1992 
production  694,000  carats  and  increasing.  Large  bauxite 


xxii 


reserves  little  exploited. 

Energy:  Commercial  quantities  of  petroleum  offshore,  but 
output  negligible  in  early  1990s.  Hydroelectric  generating 
capacity  nearly  1.2  megawatts,  mostly  at  Akosombo  Dam  on 
Volta  River;  60  percent  consumed  by  Volta  Aluminum 
Company,  remainder  consumed  domestically  or  sold  to  Togo 
and  Benin.  Significant  expansion  planned.  Northern  regions 
being  connected  to  national  power  grid. 

Foreign  Trade:  Major  exports — cocoa,  gold,  timber,  and 
industrial  diamonds — mainly  to  Germany,  Britain,  United 
States,  and  Japan.  Major  imports — capital  goods,  oil,  consumer 
goods,  and  intermediate  goods — mostly  from  Britain,  Nigeria, 
United  States,  and  Germany  Ghana's  trade  balance,  negative 
since  1980s,  estimated  at  -US$190  million  for  1994. 

External  Debt:  US$4.6  billion  in  1993. 

Currency  and  Exchange  Rate:  Cedi(0),  divided  into  100 
pesewas.  In  April  1995,  US$1.00  =  01,105. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  Year. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Roads:  Most  regions  accessible  by  road  network  of  more  than 
32,000  kilometers;  12,000  classified  as  main  roads.  About  6,000 
kilometers  paved,  remainder  gravel  or  earth.  Since  1985  major 
repairs  under  way  on  all  main  and  some  feeder  roads. 

Railroads:  953  kilometers  of  narrow  gauge  (1.067  meter)  track; 
only  thirty-two  kilometers  double-tracked.  Serve  only  southern 
industrial/commercial  centers,  mainly  connecting  Accra, 
Sekondi-Takoradi,  and  Kumasi.  Limited  renovation  under  way 
as  part  of  Economic  Recovery  Program. 

Civil  Aviation:  Eleven  airfields,  including  Kotoka  International 
Airport  at  Accra  and  major  domestic  airports  at  Sekondi- 
Takoradi,  Kumasi,  and  Tamale.  Ghana  Airways  operates  small 
fleet  on  domestic  and  international  routes.  In  early  1990s, 
runways,  lighting,  and  freight  and  terminal  buildings  upgraded 
at  Kotoka. 

Ports  and  Waterways:  Two  deep  artificial  harbors — Tema  (2.7- 
million-ton  capacity)  and  Takoradi  (projected  1.6-million-ton 
capacity).  More  than  1,100-kilometer  navigable  network  on 
Lake  Volta,  with  additional  ports  planned;  168  kilometers  of 


xxiii 


Ankobra  River,  Tano  River,  and  Volta  River  navigable.  Small 
merchant  marine  of  one  refrigerated  and  five  cargo  ships. 

Telecommunications:  Relatively  limited  telecommunications 
system.  About  45,000  telephones  in  1993,  concentrated  in 
Accra.  Two  domestic  radio-relay  systems,  one  east-west  serving 
coastal  cities,  one  north-south  connecting  Accra  with  Burkina 
Faso.  International  telecommunications  via  link  with 
International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Corporation 
(Intelsat)  Atlantic  Ocean  Satellite.  Four  AM  and  one  FM  radio 
stations;  four  television  stations;  two  domestic  shortwave 
transmitters  broadcast  in  English  and  six  local  languages;  one 
international  transmitter  broadcasts  in  English,  French,  and 
Hausa. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  A  parliamentary  democracy  at  independence  in 
1957,  followed  by  alternating  military  and  civilian 
governments.  In  January  1993,  military  government  gave  way 
to  Fourth  Republic  after  presidential  and  parliamentary 
elections  in  late  1992.  The  1992  constitution  divides  powers 
among  a  president,  parliament,  cabinet,  Council  of  State,  and 
an  independent  judiciary.  Government  elected  by  universal 
suffrage. 

Administrative  Divisions:  Ten  administrative  regions  divided 
into  110  districts,  each  with  its  own  District  Assembly.  Below 
districts  are  various  types  of  councils,  including  fifty-eight  town 
or  area  councils,  108  zonal  councils,  and  626  area  councils. 
16,000  unit  committees  on  lowest  level. 

Judicial  System:  Legal  system  based  on  Ghanaian  common  law, 
customary  (traditional)  law,  and  the  1992  constitution.  Court 
hierarchy  consists  of  Supreme  Court  of  Ghana  (highest  court) , 
Court  of  Appeal,  and  High  Court  of  Justice.  Beneath  these 
bodies  are  district,  traditional,  and  local  courts.  Extrajudicial 
institutions  include  public  tribunals,  vigilante  groups,  and  asafo 
companies.  Since  independence,  courts  relatively 
independent;  this  independence  continues  under  Fourth 
Republic.  Lower  courts  being  redefined  and  reorganized 
under  Fourth  Republic. 

Politics:  Since  mid-1992  political  parties  legal  after  ten-year 
hiatus.  Under  Fourth  Republic,  major  parties  are  National 
Democratic  Congress,  led  by  Jerry  John  Rawlings,  which  won 


xxiv 


presidential  and  parliamentary  elections  in  1992;  New  Patriotic 
Party,  major  opposition  party;  People's  National  Convention, 
led  by  former  president  Hilla  Limann;  and  (new)  People's 
Convention  Party,  successor  to  Kwame  Nkrumah's  original 
party  of  same  name. 

Foreign  Relations:  Since  independence,  fervently  devoted  to 
ideals  of  nonalignment  and  Pan-Africanism,  both  closely 
identified  with  first  president,  Kwame  Nkrumah.  Favors 
international  and  regional  political  and  economic 
cooperation.  Active  member  of  United  Nations  and 
Organization  of  African  Unity.  In  1994  President  Rawlings 
elected  chairman  of  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  In  1994  armed  forces  totaled  about  6,859  active 
personnel,  consisting  of  army,  5,000;  air  force,  1,000;  and  navy, 
850.  Missions  are  to  protect  against  foreign  aggression  and  to 
maintain  internal  security.  Armed  forces  aided  in  these 
missions  by  various  paramilitary  forces. 

Major  Military  Units:  Army  largest  and  best-equipped  service 
and  primary  unit  of  defense.  Air  force  and  navy  both  smaller 
and  subordinate  to  army.  All  three  services  hindered  by 
equipment  maintenance  problems  and  low  states  of  combat 
readiness. 

Military  Equipment:  Army  equipment  mostly  older  and  poorly 
maintained  weapons,  largely  of  British,  Brazilian,  Swiss, 
Swedish,  Israeli,  and  Finnish  manufacture.  Air  force  equipped 
with  combat,  transport,  and  training  aircraft.  Navy  possesses 
eight  sizable  ships,  including  two  corvettes  and  four  fast-attack 
craft.  All  three  services  experience  budgetary  and  maintenance 
problems. 

Defense  Budget:  Defense  spending  high  in  1960s,  declined  in 
1970s  and  1980s.  In  1992  defense  budget  about  US$105 
million,  less  than  2  percent  of  budgetary  expenditures. 

Foreign  Military  Relations:  During  colonial  and  early 
independence  periods,  military  training  and  equipment  came 
from  Britain.  In  1960s  and  after,  military  relations  diversified  to 
include  Soviet  Union,  China,  German  Democratic  Republic 
(East  Germany),  and  Libya.  In  1990s  Ghana  revived  military 


xxv 


ties  with  Britain,  United  States,  and  other  Western  countries. 
Ghana  also  providing  military  units  for  peacekeeping 
operations  in  Liberia  and  Rwanda  and  observers  and  police  for 
several  United  Nations  missions. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  Consist  of  more  than  16,000  General 
Police,  5,000-member  People's  Militia,  and  National  Civil 
Defence  Force  composed  of  all  able-bodied  citizens.  Since 
independence,  stature  of  police  has  varied  according  to  role  in 
suppression  of  dissent,  extortion,  and  bribery.  In  1990s  police 
involved  in  various  United  Nations  international  peacekeeping 
operations. 


xxvi 


f  (g)  UPPER  EASp 

f  Bolgatanga  y-. 


•■■       ■  ■;..■■■;/;■.■  ;-1Vh 

 International  boundary 

 Region  boundary 

®     National  capital 
®     Region  capital 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Ghana,  1994 


xxviii 


Introduction 


WHEN  GHANA  ACHIEVED  INDEPENDENCE  from  colonial 
domination  in  1957,  the  first  country  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  to 
do  so,  it  enjoyed  economic  and  political  advantages  unrivaled 
elsewhere  in  tropical  Africa.  The  economy  was  solidly  based  on 
the  production  and  export  of  cocoa,  of  which  Ghana  was  the 
world's  leading  producer;  minerals,  particularly  gold;  and  tim- 
ber. It  had  a  well-developed  transportation  network,  relatively 
high  per  capita  income,  low  national  debt,  and  sizable  foreign 
currency  reserves.  Its  education  system  was  relatively  advanced, 
and  its  people  were  heirs  to  a  tradition  of  parliamentary  gov- 
ernment. Ghana's  future  looked  promising,  and  it  seemed  des- 
tined to  be  a  leader  in  Africa. 

Yet  during  the  next  twenty-five  years,  rather  than  growth  and 
prosperity,  Ghanaians  experienced  substantial  declines  in  all  of 
the  above  categories,  and  the  country's  image  became  severely 
tarnished.  Beginning  in  the  early  1980s  and  continuing  into 
the  mid-1990s,  efforts  were  undertaken  to  rebuild  the  govern- 
ment and  the  economy  and  to  restore  the  luster  of  Ghana's 
name.  It  is  this  attempt  at  reconstruction  that  constitutes  the 
major  focus  of  the  present  volume. 

The  region  of  modern  Ghana  has  been  inhabited  for  several 
thousand  years,  but  little  is  known  of  Ghana's  early  inhabitants 
before  the  sixteenth  century.  By  then,  however,  the  major  pop- 
ulation groups  were  on  the  scene  and  in  their  present  locales. 
More  than  100  separate  ethnic  groups  are  found  in  Ghana 
today,  a  number  of  which  are  immigrant  groups  from  neigh- 
boring countries. 

One  of  the  most  important  is  the  Akan,  who  live  in  the 
coastal  savannah  and  forest  zones  of  southern  Ghana.  The 
Akan  were  living  in  well-defined  states  by  the  early  sixteenth 
century  at  the  latest.  By  the  end  of  that  century,  the  states  of 
Mamprusi,  Dagomba,  and  Gonja  had  come  into  being  among 
the  Mole-Dagbane  peoples  of  northern  Ghana.  These  peoples 
and  states  were  significantly  influenced  by  Mande-speaking 
peoples  from  the  north  and  the  northeast.  In  the  extreme 
north  of  present-day  Ghana  are  a  number  of  peoples  who  did 
not  form  states  in  pre-colonial  times.  These  peoples,  such  as 
the  Sisala,  Kasena,  and  Talensi,  are  organized  into  clans  and 
look  to  the  heads  of  their  clans  for  leadership.  Like  the  Mole- 


xxix 


Dagbane,  they  have  been  heavily  influenced  by  Islam,  intro- 
duced into  the  region  centuries  ago  by  trans-Saharan  traders  or 
by  migrants  from  the  north. 

The  best-known  of  the  indigenous  states  of  Ghana  is  without 
doubt  Asante,  a  term  that  applies  to  both  people  and  state. 
Beginning  in  the  mid-seventeenth  century,  this  Akan-based 
society  began  to  expand  from  the  area  around  Kumasi,  its  capi- 
tal, allying  with  or  subduing  neighboring  Akan  states  such  as 
Denkyira  and  Akwapim.  Eventually,  Asante  incorporated  non- 
Akan  peoples  and  kingdoms,  including  Gonja,  Dagomba,  and 
Mamprusi,  into  an  empire  that  encompassed  much  of  modern 
Ghana  and  parts  of  neighboring  Cote  d'lvoire.  Along  a  net- 
work of  roads  radiating  from  Kumasi  flowed  communications, 
tribute,  and,  above  all,  gold,  over  which  the  Asante  held  a 
monopoly. 

Gold  is  found  in  several  regions  of  West  Africa,  including 
the  headwaters  of  the  Niger  River  and  the  forest  zone  of  mod- 
ern Ghana.  The  West  African  gold  trade  was  well-established  in 
antiquity,  and  it  helped  tie  the  peoples  of  Ghana  into  a  trans- 
Saharan  commercial  network  that  stretched  from  the  West  Afri- 
can forest  zone  across  the  Sahara  to  ports  on  the  Mediterra- 
nean. Aside  from  providing  material  benefits,  trade  seems  to 
have  been  one  of  the  major  factors  in  state  formation  in 
Ghana. 

Gold  drew  European  traders  to  the  Gulf  of  Guinea.  The  first 
to  arrive  in  the  late  fifteenth  century  were  the  Portuguese,  who 
set  up  an  outpost  on  Ghana's  coast.  During  the  next  century, 
the  lure  of  gold  gave  way  to  the  slave  trade  because  of  the 
demand  for  labor  in  the  Americas.  Trading  in  slaves  as  well  as 
gold,  the  Dutch,  the  Danes,  the  English,  and  the  Swedes  even- 
tually joined  the  Portuguese  on  what  had  come  to  be  known  as 
the  "Gold  Coast."  By  the  early  nineteenth  century,  the  British 
were  the  most  important  European  power  on  the  Gold  Coast. 
Thereafter,  the  British  extended  their  control  inland  via  trea- 
ties and  warfare  until  by  1902  much  of  present-day  Ghana  was  a 
British  crown  colony.  Ghana's  current  borders  were  realized  in 
1956  when  the  Volta  region  voted  to  join  Ghana. 

British  colonial  government,  while  authoritarian  and  cen- 
tralized, nonetheless  permitted  Ghanaians  a  role  in  governing 
the  colony.  This  was  true  not  only  of  central  governing  bodies 
such  as  the  Legislative  Council  and  later  the  Executive  Council, 
but  of  local  and  regional  administration  as  well.  The  British 
policy  of  indirect  rule  meant  that  chiefs  or  other  local  leaders 


xxx 


became  agents  of  the  colonial  administration.  This  system  of 
rule  gave  Ghanaians  experience  with  modern,  representative 
government  to  a  degree  unparalleled  elsewhere  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa. 

During  the  colonial  period,  the  Gold  Coast  began  to  develop 
economically.  Roads,  railroads,  and  a  harbor  at  Takoradi  were 
constructed.  In  1878  a  Ghanaian  brought  cacao  pods  into  the 
country,  introducing  what  eventually  became  the  country's 
major  cash  crop.  Large-scale  commercial  gold  mining  began, 
and  Western-style  education  was  introduced,  culminating  in 
the  founding  of  the  University  College  of  the  Gold  Coast  in 
1948.  The  education  system  trained  a  class  of  Ghanaians  that 
found  employment  in  the  colonial  administration.  In  the  twen- 
tieth century,  this  same  class  increasingly  sought  economic, 
political,  and  social  improvements  as  well  as  self-government, 
and,  eventually,  independence  for  Ghanaians. 

After  World  War  II,  the  drive  for  independence  began  in  ear- 
nest under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Gold  Coast  Convention 
and  the  Convention  People's  Party,  the  latter  founded  by 
Kwame  Nkrumah  in  1949.  Britain  granted  independence  on 
March  6,  1957,  under  a  governor  general  as  representative  of 
the  crown  and  Nkrumah  as  prime  minister.  In  1960  a  new  con- 
stitution created  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  the  same  year  that 
Nkrumah  was  elected  president. 

Nkrumah  saw  Ghana  as  the  "Star  of  Black  Africa."  He 
believed  that  Ghana  should  lead  the  effort  to  free- Africa  from 
the  shackles  of  Western  colonialism  and  envisioned  a  union  of 
independent  African  states  that  would  command  respect  in  the 
world.  Nkrumah  also  helped  found  the  Non-Aligned  Move- 
ment, a  grouping  of  world  states  that  attempted  to  pursue  poli- 
cies independent  of  East  and  West.  His  ideas  about  African 
unity  proved  immensely  appealing  in  the  late  1950s  and  early 
1960s;  indeed,  the  Pan-Africanist  dream  still  resonates  across 
Africa  in  the  1990s. 

Nkrumah's  pursuit  of  Pan-Africanism  proved  expensive  and 
ultimately  futile,  and  it  partially  accounts  for  the  economic 
problems  that  Ghana  encountered  during  the  early  1960s. 
More  important,  however,  were  Nkrumah's  domestic  policies. 
He  believed  in  centralization,  both  political  and  economic. 
Constitutional  safeguards  against  authoritarianism  were  abol- 
ished, political  opposition  was  stifled,  and,  shortly  after  the 
1960  elections,  Nkrumah  was  declared  president  for  life.  By  the 


xxxi 


mid-1960s,  Ghana  had  become  a  one-party  state  under  a  pow- 
erful president. 

Nkrumah  also  believed  in  a  rapid  transformation  of  the  Gha- 
naian economy  along  socialist  lines.  He  channeled  investment 
into  new  industrial  enterprises  and  agricultural  projects, 
nationalized  foreign-owned  enterprises,  and  wherever  possible 
"Ghanaianized"  the  public  and  private  sectors.  State-sponsored 
enterprises  such  as  the  Akosombo  Dam  and  the  Volta  Alumi- 
num Company  were  undertaken,  roads  were  built,  and  schools 
and  health  services  were  expanded.  The  former  Northern  Ter- 
ritories, the  northernmost  third  of  the  country  which  had  been 
neglected  by  the  British,  received  special  attention  in  an 
attempt  to  address  the  imbalance  in  infrastructure  and  social 
services  between  North  and  South. 

Ghana,  however,  lacked  sufficient  resources  to  finance  the 
public-sector  projects  that  Nkrumah  envisioned.  When  foreign 
currency  reserves  were  exhausted,  the  government  resorted  to 
deficit  financing  and  foreign  borrowing  to  pay  for  essential 
imports.  Trained  manpower  to  allocate  resources  and  to  oper- 
ate old  and  new  state  enterprises  was  equally  in  short  supply, 
and  internal  financial  controls  necessary  to  implement  devel- 
opment led  almost  naturally  to  corruption.  Despite  obvious 
gains  from  investment  in  roads,  schools,  health  services,  and 
import-substituting  industries,  by  the  mid-1960s  Ghana  was  a 
nation  ensnared  in  debt,  rising  inflation,  and  economic  mis- 
management, the  result  of  Nkrumah's  ill-conceived  develop- 
ment policies.  An  overvalued  currency  discouraged  exports, 
corruption  was  increasingly  a  fact  of  life,  and  the  political  sys- 
tem was  intolerant  of  dissent  and  authoritarian  in  practice. 

In  1966  Nkrumah  was  overthrown  and  a  military  govern- 
ment assumed  power.  But  neither  military  nor  civilian  govern- 
ments during  the  next  fifteen  years  were  able  to  deal 
successfully  with  the  host  of  problems  that  Nkrumah  had 
bequeathed.  In  particular,  under  the  Supreme  Military  Council 
(1972-79),  Ghana's  economy  and  political  institutions  deterio- 
rated at  an  alarming  rate.  The  1970s  were  a  period  of  steadily 
falling  agricultural  production,  manufacturing  output,  and  per 
capita  income.  Declining  cocoa  production  and  exports  were 
accompanied  by  a  corresponding  rise  in  smuggling  of  the  crop 
to  neighboring  countries,  especially  Cote  dTvoire,  and  largely 
accounted  for  chronic  trade  deficits.  Personal  enrichment  and 
corruption  became  the  norm  of  government. 


xxxii 


Beyond  these  serious  problems  loomed  much  larger  issues 
that  needed  to  be  addressed  if  Ghana  were  to  resume  its  posi- 
tion at  the  forefront  of  Africa's  leading  nations.  Among  these 
were  the  fear  of  an  overly  centralized  and  authoritarian 
national  executive,  the  burden  of  accumulated  foreign  debt, 
and  the  need  to  forge  a  nation  from  Ghana's  diverse  ethnic 
and  regional  interests.  In  particular,  the  challenge  was  to  devise 
a  system  of  government  that  would  bridge  the  enormous  gap 
that  had  developed  between  the  political  center  and  society  at 
large.  For  most  Ghanaians,  the  nation-state  by  the  late  1970s 
had  become  a  largely  irrelevant  construct  that  had  ceased  to 
provide  economic  benefits  or  opportunities  for  meaningful 
political  participation.  As  a  consequence,  local,  ethnic,  and 
regional  interests  had  become  much  more  prominent  than 
those  of  Ghana  as  a  whole. 

Such  were  the  challenges  that  lay  before  the  group  of  mili- 
tary officers  who  seized  power  at  the  end  of  1981.  During  its 
first  year,  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (PNDC) 
spoke  vaguely  about  socialism  and  established  people's  and 
workers'  defence  committees  and  extra-judicial  public  tribu- 
nals as  a  way  to  involve  Ghanaians  in  public  administration.  In 
1983,  however,  the  council,  under  its  leader,  Jerry  John  Rawl- 
ings,  abandoned  its  socialist  leanings  and  negotiated  a  struc- 
tural adjustment  program  with  the  World  Bank  and  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  as  the  best  and  perhaps  only 
method  of  rejuvenating  the  economy.  Called  the  Economic 
Recovery  Program,  it  was  designed  to  stimulate  economic 
growth  and  exports,  to  enhance  private  initiative  and  invest- 
ment, and  to  reduce  the  role  of  the  state  in  economic  affairs. 

On  the  one  hand,  Ghana's  structural  adjustment  program 
was  and  continues  to  be  one  of  a  half  dozen  models  for  such 
programs  backed  by  international  lending  agencies.  It  suc- 
ceeded in  reversing  the  downward  trend  in  production  and 
exports,  especially  in  the  cocoa,  mining,  and  timber  industries. 
During  the  1980s,  gross  national  product  grew  at  annual  rates 
of  5  percent  or  more  a  year,  per  capita  income  slowly  began  to 
rise,  and  inflation  abated.  Since  1990,  economic  growth  has 
slowed,  but  trends  in  the  economy  remain  positive. 

On  the  other  hand,  Ghana  has  incurred  new  debts  to 
finance  its  Economic  Recovery  Program,  unemployment  has 
risen,  and  new  fees  for  basic  services  such  as  education  and 
health  care  have  added  to  the  burdens  of  ordinary  citizens. 
Indeed,  for  many  Ghanaians,  structural  adjustment  has  not  yet 


xxxiii 


significantly  improved  their  lives.  Additionally,  per  capita 
income,  while  continuing  to  rise,  is  unevenly  distributed 
throughout  the  population,  and  private  overseas  investment 
has  largely  failed  to  materialize.  In  Ghana's  case,  structural 
adjustment  is  clearly  a  long-term  process.  Despite  problems 
and  shortcomings,  the  government  of  the  present  Fourth 
Republic,  which  succeeded  the  PNDC  in  1993,  remains  com- 
mitted to  it. 

Equally  significant  were  steps  to  devise  new  political  institu- 
tions that  would  allow  a  large  number  of  Ghanaians  to  partici- 
pate in  governing  the  country.  The  creation  of  defence 
committees  and  public  tribunals  in  the  early  1980s  was  a  step  in 
this  direction.  In  1988  and  early  1989,  nonpartisan  elections 
were  held  to  fill  seats  in  representative  assemblies  constituted 
in  each  of  Ghana's  ten  administrative  regions;  similar  bodies 
were  eventually  seated  in  cities,  towns,  and  villages.  Thereafter, 
the  overriding  question  was  what  form  the  national  govern- 
ment would  take.  After  initial  reluctance  to  commit  themselves 
to  a  multiparty  political  system,  Rawlings  and  the  PNDC 
yielded  in  the  face  of  domestic  and  international  pressures.  In 
April  1992,  a  new  constitution  that  called  for  an  elected  parlia- 
ment and  chief  executive  won  overwhelming  approval  in  a 
national  referendum.  Political  parties,  banned  since  1982,  were 
the  mechanism  by  which  the  system  was  to  work. 

Presidential  elections  were  held  in  November  1992,  followed 
in  December  by  elections  for  the  200-member  national  parlia- 
ment. After  a  heated  campaign,  Jerry  Rawlings  was  elected 
president.  His  party,  the  National  Democratic  Congress 
(NDC),  won  control  of  parliament.  In  January  1993,  Rawlings 
and  the  new  parliamentarians  were  sworn  into  office,  thereby 
launching  Ghana's  fourth  attempt  at  republican  government 
since  independence. 

The  new  political  order  in  Ghana,  unfortunately,  did  not  get 
off  to  a  happy  start.  The  four  opposition  parties  that  had  candi- 
dates running  in  the  presidential  race  charged  that  fraud  and 
voting  irregularities  accounted  for  Rawlings's  victory.  When 
their  demands  for  a  revised  voters  register  were  rejected 
because  of  cost  and  time  factors,  they  boycotted  the  parliamen- 
tary elections.  This  stance  by  the  opposition  resulted  in  what  is 
in  effect  a  one-party  republic,  which  imparts  a  hollowness  to 
Ghana's  latest  effort  at  democratic  government.  Although  the 
opposition  parties  have  accepted  the  status  quo  for  the  time 
being  and  have  taken  on  the  role  of  watchdog  even  though 


xxxiv 


they  are  not  represented  in  parliament,  they  have  continued  to 
press  for  a  new  voters  list  before  elections  scheduled  for  1996 
and  remain  basically  unreconciled  to  NDC  rule.  As  a  result,  the 
first  two  years  of  the  Fourth  Republic  were  marked  by  a  series 
of  skirmishes  and  quarrels  between  the  government  and  the 
opposition. 

In  its  campaign  against  the  NDC  government,  the  opposi- 
tion, resorting  to  the  courts,  won  several  cases  against  the  gov- 
ernment in  1993  and  early  1994.  Since  1993  a  small  but 
vigorous  independent  press  has  developed,  which  the  opposi- 
tion has  used  to  publicize  its  views.  Despite  publication  of  what 
at  times  have  been  sensational  or  even  libelous  charges  against 
members  of  the  NDC,  including  Rawlings,  the  government  has 
made  no  move  to  censor  or  suppress  independent  newspapers 
and  magazines.  Official  spokesmen,  however,  have  repeatedly 
denounced  what  they  consider  irresponsible  reporting  in  the 
private  press. 

In  late  1994  and  early  1995,  controversy  over  the  media  con- 
tinued unabated.  The  most  contentious  issue  involved  the 
attempt  to  establish  a  private  radio  station  as  an  alternative  to 
the  official  Ghana  Broadcasting  Corporation.  Known  as  "Radio 
Eye"  and  dedicated  to  providing  a  wider  range  of  political  opin- 
ion and  information  than  the  government  network,  it  began 
broadcasting  in  November  1994.  The  government  promptly 
shut  it  down  and  seized  its  equipment,  charging  that  Radio  Eye 
had  not  been  licensed.  The  opposition  parties  protested  that 
the  government's  action  was  an  affront  to  democratic  proce- 
dures and  turned  once  more  to  the  courts,  challenging  the 
government's  licensing  practices  and  the  constitutionality  of  its 
actions. 

By  early  1995,  the  case  was  before  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Ghana.  Meanwhile,  in  early  February  the  government 
announced  that  properly  authorized  private  radio  stations 
would  begin  broadcasting  in  February.  The  large  number  of 
license  applications  received  by  the  government — more  than 
sixty — indicated  the  interest  in  private,  independent  radio 
broadcasting. 

Prospects  for  abatement  in  the  media  battles  between  the 
government  and  its  critics  were  nil,  given  the  degree  of  antipa- 
thy between  the  two  sides  and  preparations  for  national  elec- 
tions in  1996.  Even  so,  both  appeared  to  accept  the  basic  rules 
of  democratic  procedure.  In  a  statement  marking  the  second 
anniversary  of  the  Fourth  Republic,  the  New  Patriotic  Party 


xxxv 


called  on  Rawlings  (and  the  NDC)  to  respect  the  1992  constitu- 
tion to  ensure  that  this  latest  exercise  in  democracy  would  suc- 
ceed. Most  significantly,  the  statement  added,  "Let  us  recognise 
that  the  eras  of  violent  and  revolutionary  change  of  govern- 
ment in  Ghana  are  over." 

Aside  from  freedom  of  the  press  and  speech,  other  basic 
human  rights  also  appeared  to  enjoy  increased  respect  in  mid- 
1995.  There  were  persistent  reports  of  police  abuse,  especially 
in  areas  distant  from  Accra,  as  well  as  of  unwarranted  deten- 
tions, beatings,  and  similar  infringements  of  rights,  but,  in  gen- 
eral, the  number  and  severity  of  human  rights  violations 
continued  to  decline.  The  judiciary  in  particular  showed  clear 
evidence  of  preserving  its  independence,  in  keeping  with  Gha- 
naian tradition  and  the  requirements  of  democratic  gover- 
nance. 

Such  a  state  of  affairs  was  encouraging,  given  the  role  of  the 
armed  forces  and  the  police  in  Ghana's  postindependence  his- 
tory. Of  the  ten  governments  since  1957,  six  were  composed  of 
military  officers  who  came  to  power  via  coups.  The  PNDC  was 
one  such  regime,  and  even  though  it  handed  over  power  to  a 
civilian,  constitutional  government  in  1993,  the  question  of  the 
role  of  Ghana's  military  in  the  Fourth  Republic  was  still  an 
important  one.  Under  the  Economic  Recovery  Program,  fund- 
ing of  the  armed  forces  was  reduced,  and  equipment  and  facili- 
ties were  allowed  to  deteriorate.  In  recognition  of  this  fact  and 
of  the  continuing  mission  of  the  armed  forces  in  matters  of 
defense  and  international  peacekeeping,  Rawlings  called  for 
renewed  attention  to  the  needs  of  the  armed  forces  in  his 
speech  marking  the  second  anniversary  of  the  Fourth  Republic 
in  January  1995. 

On  the  economic  scene,  the  government  was  determined  to 
continue  with  structural  adjustment.  Tight  fiscal  controls  in 
central  and  local  government  accounts,  an  essential  element  in 
structural  adjustment,  had  been  relaxed  as  the  1992  elections 
approached,  leading  to  an  increase  in  the  government  deficit, 
inflation,  and  interest  rates.  Indications  were  that  this  situation 
had  not  been  brought  under  control  in  mid-1995. 

Ghana  faced  other  major  problems  with  its  Economic  Recov- 
ery Program  in  the  mid-1990s  as  well.  These  included  the  pro- 
gressive fall  in  the  value  of  the  cedi,  the  national  currency;  a 
high  rate  of  inflation  (more  than  30  percent  in  mid-1995);  the 
lack  of  private-sector  investment,  especially  in  manufacturing; 
and  rising  levels  of  unemployment  as  a  result  of  international 


xxxvi 


competition,  domestic  factory  closings,  and  downsizing  of  par- 
astatals  and  the  government  bureaucracy.  Added  to  these  prob- 
lems were  the  difficulty  of  reconciling  the  rigors  of  free-market 
economic  reforms  with  popular  demands  for  improved  public 
services  and  living  standards,  and  a  population  growing  by  well 
over  3  percent  a  year. 

Preliminary  data  for  the  whole  of  1994  showed  that  the 
country  had  achieved  a  budget  surplus,  with  another  antici- 
pated for  1995,  and  that  gross  domestic  product  adjusted  for 
inflation  amounted  to  3.8  percent,  short  of  the  target  of  5  per- 
cent but  still  commendable.  Ghana's  trade  deficit,  however, 
amounted  to  US$200  million,  with  a  similar  figure  projected 
for  1995.  Total  international  debt  for  1993,  the  most  recent 
year  for  which  revised  figures  were  available,  stood  at  US$4.6 
billion;  its  rate  of  increase,  however,  showed  signs  of  slowing.  In 
January  1995,  the  government  granted  a  52  percent  increase  in 
the  minimum  wage  under  pressure  from  the  Trade  Union  Con- 
gress. 

On  the  whole,  Ghana's  economy  seemed  to  be  headed  in  the 
right  direction  in  the  mid-1990s,  even  if  sustained  economic 
recovery  was  not  yet  a  reality  more  than  a  decade  after  intro- 
duction of  the  Economic  Recovery  Program  and  even  if  the 
country  continued  to  rely  on  cocoa,  gold,  and  timber  for  most 
of  its  foreign  currency  earnings.  Nonetheless,  in  spite  of  real 
problems,  Ghana  was  still  the  model  for  structural  adjustment 
in  Africa  in  the  eyes  of  Western  lending  institutions. 

The  fragility  of  the  economic  and  political  transition  under- 
way in  Ghana  was  evident  from  events  in  the  spring  of  1995.  On 
March  1 ,  the  government  introduced  a  new  value-added  tax  to 
replace  the  national  sales  tax.  Set  at  17.5  percent  of  the  price  of 
many  commodities  and  services,  the  new  tax  immediately 
resulted  in  rising  prices  and  contributed  to  an  already  high  rate 
of  inflation.  It  thereby  added  to  the  deprivation  many  Ghana- 
ians had  been  experiencing  for  more  than  a  decade  under  the 
Economic  Recovery  Program.  For  many,  it  was  simply  too 
much.  Discontent  among  civil  servants,  teachers,  and  others 
led  to  street  demonstrations  and  finally,  on  May  1 1 ,  to  the  larg- 
est protest  demonstration  in  Accra  against  government  policies 
since  Rawlings  and  the  PNDC  came  to  power.  Five  people  were 
killed  and  seventeen  injured  in  clashes  between  supporters  and 
opponents  of  the  government.  Demonstrators  not  only  criti- 
cized what  they  considered  harsh  economic  policies,  but  some 
also  called  openly  for  Rawlings  to  step  down. 


xxxvii 


The  protests,  organized  by  opposition  parties,  provided 
Rawlings's  opponents  with  a  rallying  cry.  For  the  first  time  since 
1993,  the  Rawlings  government  appeared  politically  vulnera- 
ble. In  the  face  of  continued  protests  and  increasing  doubts 
about  the  viability  of  the  value-added  tax,  the  government  in 
early  June  announced  plans  to  replace  it  with  a  new  national 
sales  tax.  In  the  meantime,  one  of  the  NDC's  partners  in  the 
Progressive  Alliance,  the  National  Convention  Party,  withdrew 
from  the  alliance  in  late  May.  The  party's  leaders  claimed  that  it 
had  not  been  allowed  to  participate  in  affairs  of  government  as 
had  been  promised  when  the  alliance  was  formed  to  contest 
the  1992  elections.  The  National  Convention  Party,  therefore, 
would  no  longer  be  bound  by  the  agreement,  and  it  would  feel 
free  to  associate  with  the  opposition  if  it  chose  to  do  so. 

In  early  1995,  Rawlings,  as  chairman  of  the  Economic  Com- 
munity of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  continued  his  efforts 
to  find  a  solution  to  the  civil  war  in  Liberia.  At  a  December 
meeting  in  Accra,  the  major  combatants  agreed  to  form  a  new 
governing  council  and  to  implement  a  cease-fire.  As  of  April, 
however,  the  combatants  had  not  been  able  to  agree  fully  on 
the  new  council's  membership  despite  another  meeting  in 
Accra  in  January,  and  even  the  cease-fire  threatened  to  come 
unraveled  as  renewed  fighting  broke  out  in  Liberia.  So  disap- 
pointed were  Rawlings  and  other  West  African  leaders  that  they 
threatened  to  withdraw  their  peacekeeping  troops  if  the  Liberi- 
ans  continued  to  obstruct  the  ECOWAS  peace  process. 

In  support  of  another  peacekeeping  mission,  on  March  1, 
1995,  Ghana  dispatched  a  contingent  of  224  officers  and  men 
as  part  of  its  long-term  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  forces  in  Lebanon.  Other  Ghanaians  continued 
to  serve  as  military  observers,  police,  or  soldiers  in  interna- 
tional peacekeeping  missions  in  Western  Sahara,  the  former 
Yugoslavia,  Mozambique,  and  Rwanda.  The  warming  in  rela- 
tions with  neighboring  Togo  also  continued.  After  the  arrival 
of  a  new  Ghanaian  ambassador  in  Lome  in  mid-November, 
Togolese  authorities  reopened  their  western  border  in  Decem- 
ber and  were  expected  to  name  an  ambassador  to  Accra  during 
1995. 

As  the  home  of  Pan-Africanism,  Ghana  hosted  the  second 
Pan-African  Historical  and  Theatre  Festival  (Panafest)  from 
December  9  to  18,  1994.  As  with  the  first  Panafest  in  Accra  in 
1992,  the  1994  festival  was  designed  to  foster  unity  among  Afri- 
cans on  the  continent  and  abroad.  Unfortunately,  attendance 


xxxviii 


at  Panafest  94  was  lower  than  expected,  one  reason  the  festival 
was  a  disappointment  to  its  sponsors. 

Finally,  in  early  March  1995,  Rawlings  paid  an  official  visit  to 
Washington,  where  he  met  with  President  Bill  Clinton.  The  two 
presidents  discussed  a  variety  of  topics,  including  regional  sta- 
bility in  West  Africa  and  trade  and  investment  in  Ghana.  Clin- 
ton noted  Ghana's  prominence  in  international  peacekeeping 
missions,  especially  in  Liberia,  and  pledged  continued  United 
States  support  for  Ghanaian  efforts  at  regional  conflict  resolu- 
tion. Rawlings's  visit  was  the  first  to  the  United  States  by  a  Gha- 
naian head  of  state  in  at  least  thirty  years. 

By  mid-1995,  Ghana  had  emerged  at  the  forefront  of  change 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Its  structural  adjustment  program  was  a 
model  for  other  developing  nations  on  the  continent,  and  its 
pursuit  of  popular,  representative  government  and  democratic 
institutions  made  it  a  pacesetter  in  the  political  realm. 
Endowed  with  both  human  and  natural  resources  and  with  a 
political  leadership  seemingly  determined  to  reverse  decades 
of  economic  and  political  decline,  Ghana  had  the  potential  to 
become  one  of  Africa's  leading  nations  once  again.  Whether 
Ghana  would  resume  its  status  as  the  "Star  of  Black  Africa"  envi- 
sioned by  Kwame  Nkrumah,  however,  remained  to  be  seen. 


August  1,  1995  LaVerle  Berry 


xxxix 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


A  pectoral  of  cast  gold  (Akan) 


ACCORDING  TO  TRADITION,  most  present-day  Ghanaians 
are  descended  not  from  the  area's  earliest  inhabitants  but  from 
various  migrant  groups,  the  first  of  which  probably  came  down 
the  Volta  River  Basin  in  the  early  thirteenth  century.  By  the  six- 
teenth century,  most  ethnic  groups  constituting  the  population 
of  Ghana  (formerly  the  British  colony  of  the  Gold  Coast)  had 
settled  in  their  present  locations.  Prior  to  British  control  in  the 
nineteenth  century,  political  developments  in  the  area  largely 
revolved  around  the  formation,  expansion,  and  contraction  of 
a  number  of  states — a  situation  that  often  entailed  much  popu- 
lation movement.  Some  people,  however,  lived  in  so-called  seg- 
mentary societies  and  did  not  form  states,  particularly  in 
northern  Ghana. 

Early  states  in  Ghana  made  every  effort  to  participate  in  or,  if 
possible,  to  control,  trade  with  Europeans,  who  first  arrived  on 
the  coast  in  the  late  fifteenth  century.  These  efforts  in  turn 
influenced  state  formation  and  development.  Much  more 
important  to  the  evolution  of  these  states,  however,  were  their 
responses  to  pre-European  patterns  of  trade.  This  was  particu- 
larly true  of  commercial  relations  between  the  Akan  states  of 
southern  Ghana  and  trading  centers  in  the  western  Sudan. 
Competition  among  the  traditional  societies  ultimately  facili- 
tated British  efforts  to  gain  control  of  what  Europeans  called 
the  "Gold  Coast."  Traditional  authorities,  who  with  their  elders 
had  hitherto  exercised  autonomous  control  over  their  territo- 
ries, became  agents  of  the  British  colonial  government  under 
the  policy  of  indirect  rule. 

As  was  the  case  in  many  sub-Saharan  African  countries,  the 
rise  of  a  national  consciousness  in  Ghana  developed  largely  in 
the  twentieth  century  in  response  to  colonial  policies.  The  call 
to  freedom  came  from  a  few  elites,  but  it  was  only  after  World 
War  II  that  the  concept  of  independence  captured  the  imagi- 
nation of  large  numbers  of  people  and  gained  popular  sup- 
port. Differences  existed  between  the  two  leading  political 
parties,  however,  on  such  issues  as  the  timetable  for  indepen- 
dence and  the  powers  to  be  vested  in  the  modern  state. 

Ghana's  first  independent  administration  was  inaugurated 
on  March  6,  1957,  with  Kwame  Nkrumah  as  prime  minister.  On 
July  1,  1960,  Ghana  was  declared  a  republic,  with  Kwame  Nkru- 
mah as  its  president.  Earlier,  parliament  had  passed  the  Preven- 


3 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

tive  Detention  Act  of  1958,  which  granted  authority  to  the  head 
of  state  to  detain  without  trial  those  who  were  considered  a 
threat  to  the  nation.  By  means  of  such  measures,  Nkrumah  and 
his  party  intimidated  leading  members  of  the  opposition.  Some 
opponents  were  co-opted;  others  were  either  exiled  or  jailed. 
As  leader  of  Ghana  at  the  time  of  the  Cold  War,  Nkrumah 
forged  alliances  that  increasingly  placed  him  in  the  camp  of 
the  Eastern  Bloc.  Western  governments  understood  Nkru- 
mah's  agenda  to  be  socialist  and  worried  about  his  influence 
on  other  African  leaders.  Some  observers  believed  that  Nkru- 
mah's  obsession  with  what  he  called  the  "total  liberation  of 
Africa"  compelled  him  to  create  an  authoritarian  political  sys- 
tem in  Ghana.  Critics  of  the  regime  accused  Nkrumah  of  intro- 
ducing patterns  of  oppression  into  Ghanaian  politics  and  of 
tolerating  widespread  corruption  among  party  leaders.  The 
regime  paid  too  much  attention  to  urban  problems  at  the 
expense  of  the  more  productive  rural  sector,  they  felt,  and  it 
embraced  unrealistic  economic  and  foreign  assistance  policies 
that  led  the  nation  to  accrue  huge  foreign  debts.  The  Nkru- 
mah administration  was  overthrown  by  the  military  in  February 
1966.  Many  analysts  maintain  that  the  political  instability  and 
economic  problems  faced  by  the  country  since  the  mid-1960s 
are  by-products  of  the  Nkrumah  era. 

By  1981  Ghana  had  undergone  seven  major  changes  of  gov- 
ernment since  the  fall  of  Nkrumah.  Each  change  was  followed 
by  alienation  of  the  majority  of  the  population  and  by  military 
intervention,  touted  to  end  the  rule  that  was  responsible  for 
the  country's  problems.  Each  time,  the  new  government,  civil 
or  military,  failed  to  stabilize  the  political  and  economic  condi- 
tions of  the  country. 

As  its  fourth  decade  of  independence  began  in  1987,  Ghana 
was  under  the  administration  of  the  Provisional  National 
Defence  Council,  a  military  government  led  by  Flight  Lieuten- 
ant Jerry  John  Rawlings  that  had  come  to  power  in  December 
1981.  Like  the  Nkrumah  administration  three  decades  earlier, 
the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  and  Rawlings  were 
criticized  for  their  populism  and  desire  for  radical  change. 
Despite  the  difficult  early  years  of  the  Rawlings  regime, 
Ghana's  economy  had  begun  to  show  signs  of  recovery  by  the 
late  1980s,  and  preparations  were  underway  to  return  the 
country  to  some  form  of  democratic  government. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


The  Precolonial  Period 

By  the  end  of  the  sixteenth  century,  most  ethnic  groups  con- 
stituting the  modern  Ghanaian  population  had  settled  in  their 
present  locations.  Archaeological  remains  found  in  the  coastal 
zone  indicate  that  the  area  has  been  inhabited  since  the  early 
Bronze  Age  (ca.  4000  B.C.),  but  these  societies,  based  on  fish- 
ing in  the  extensive  lagoons  and  rivers,  left  few  traces.  Archaeo- 
logical work  also  suggests  that  central  Ghana  north  of  the 
forest  zone  was  inhabited  as  early  as  3,000  to  4,000  years  ago. 
Oral  history  and  other  sources  suggest  that  the  ancestors  of 
some  of  Ghana's  residents  entered  this  area  at  least  as  early  as 
the  tenth  century  A.D.  and  that  migration  from  the  north  and 
east  continued  thereafter. 

These  migrations  resulted  in  part  from  the  formation  and 
disintegration  of  a  series  of  large  states  in  the  western  Sudan 
(the  region  north  of  modern  Ghana  drained  by  the  Niger 
River).  Prominent  among  these  Sudanic  states  was  the  Soninke 
kingdom  of  Ghana.  Strictly  speaking,  ghana  was  the  title  of  the 
king,  but  the  Arabs,  who  left  records  of  the  kingdom,  applied 
the  term  to  the  king,  the  capital,  and  the  state.  The  ninth-cen- 
tury Arab  writer,  Al  Yaqubi,  described  ancient  Ghana  as  one  of 
the  three  most  organized  states  in  the  region  (the  others  being 
Gao  and  Kanem  in  the  central  Sudan).  Its  rulers  were 
renowned  for  their  wealth  in  gold,  the  opulence  of  their 
courts,  and  their  warrior-hunting  skills.  They  were  also  masters 
of  the  trade  in  gold,  which  drew  North  African  merchants  to 
the  western  Sudan.  The  military  achievements  of  these  and 
later  western  Sudanic  rulers  and  their  control  over  the  region's 
gold  mines  constituted  the  nexus  of  their  historical  relations 
with  merchants  and  rulers  of  North  Africa  and  the  Mediterra- 
nean. 

Ghana  succumbed  to  attacks  by  its  neighbors  in  the  eleventh 
century,  but  its  name  and  reputation  endured.  In  1957  when 
the  leaders  of  the  former  British  colony  of  the  Gold  Coast 
sought  an  appropriate  name  for  their  newly  independent 
state — the  first  black  African  nation  to  gain  its  independence 
from  colonial  rule — they  named  their  new  country  after 
ancient  Ghana.  The  choice  was  more  than  merely  symbolic 
because  modern  Ghana,  like  its  namesake,  was  equally  famed 
for  its  wealth  and  trade  in  gold. 

Although  none  of  the  states  of  the  western  Sudan  controlled 
territories  in  the  area  that  is  modern  Ghana,  several  small  king- 
doms that  later  developed  in  the  north  of  the  country  were 


5 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

ruled  by  nobles  believed  to  have  immigrated  from  that  region. 
The  trans-Saharan  trade  that  contributed  to  the  expansion  of 
kingdoms  in  the  western  Sudan  also  led  to  the  development  of 
contacts  with  regions  in  northern  modern  Ghana  and  in  the 
forest  to  the  south.  By  the  thirteenth  century,  for  example,  the 
town  of  Jenne  in  the  empire  of  Mali  had  established  commer- 
cial connections  with  the  ethnic  groups  in  the 
savanna-woodland  areas  of  the  northern  two-thirds  of  the  Volta 
Basin  in  modern  Ghana.  Jenne  was  also  the  headquarters  of 
the  Dyula,  Muslim  traders  who  dealt  with  the  ancestors  of  the 
Akan-speaking  peoples  who  occupy  most  of  the  southern  half 
of  the  country. 

The  growth  of  trade  stimulated  the  development  of  early 
Akan  states  located  on  the  trade  route  to  the  goldfields  in  the 
forest  zone  of  the  south.  The  forest  itself  was  thinly  populated, 
but  Akan-speaking  peoples  began  to  move  into  it  toward  the 
end  of  the  fifteenth  century  with  the  arrival  of  crops  from 
Southeast  Asia  and  the  New  World  that  could  be  adapted  to 
forest  conditions.  These  new  crops  included  sorghum, 
bananas,  and  cassava.  By  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, European  sources  noted  the  existence  of  the  gold-rich 
states  of  Akan  and  Twifu  in  the  Ofin  River  Valley. 

Also  in  the  same  period,  some  of  the  Mande,  who  had  stimu- 
lated the  development  of  states  in  what  is  now  northern  Nige- 
ria (the  Hausa  states  and  those  of  the  Lake  Chad  area),  moved 
southwestward  and  imposed  themselves  on  many  of  the  indige- 
nous peoples  of  the  northern  half  of  modern  Ghana  and  of 
Burkina  Faso  (Burkina — formerly  Upper  Volta),  founding  the 
states  of  Dagomba  and  Mamprusi.  The  Mande  also  influenced 
the  rise  of  the  Gonja  state. 

It  seems  clear  from  oral  traditions  as  well  as  from  archaeo- 
logical evidence  that  the  Mole-Dagbane  states  of  Mamprusi, 
Dagomba,  and  Gonja,  as  well  as  the  Mossi  states  of  Yatenga  and 
Wagadugu,  were  among  the  earliest  kingdoms  to  emerge  in 
modern  Ghana,  being  well  established  by  the  close  of  the  six- 
teenth century.  The  Mossi  and  Gonja  rulers  came  to  speak  the 
languages  of  the  peoples  they  dominated.  In  general,  however, 
members  of  the  ruling  class  retained  their  traditions,  and  even 
today  some  of  them  can  recite  accounts  of  their  northern  ori- 
gins. 

Although  most  rulers  were  not  Muslims,  they  either  brought 
with  them  or  welcomed  Muslims  as  scribes  and  medicine  men, 
and  Muslims  also  played  a  significant  role  in  the  trade  that 


6 


Historical  Setting 


linked  southern  with  northern  Ghana.  As  a  result  of  their  pres- 
ence, Islam  substantially  influenced  the  north.  Muslim  influ- 
ence, spread  by  the  activities  of  merchants  and  clerics,  has  been 
recorded  even  among  the  Asante  (also  seen  as  Ashanti — see 
Glossary)  to  the  south.  Although  most  Ghanaians  retained 
their  traditional  beliefs,  the  Muslims  brought  with  them  certain 
skills,  including  writing,  and  introduced  certain  beliefs  and 
practices  that  became  part  of  the  culture  of  the  peoples  among 
whom  they  settled  (see  Christianity  and  Islam  in  Ghana,  ch.  2). 

In  the  broad  belt  of  rugged  country  between  the  northern 
boundaries  of  the  Muslim-influenced  states  of  Gonja,  Mam- 
prusi,  and  Dagomba  and  the  southernmost  outposts  of  the 
Mossi  kingdoms  lived  a  number  of  peoples  who  were  not  incor- 
porated into  these  entities.  Among  these  peoples  were  the 
Sisala,  Kasena,  Kusase,  and  Talensi,  agriculturalists  closely 
related  to  the  Mossi.  Rather  than  establishing  centralized  states 
themselves,  they  lived  in  so-called  segmented  societies,  bound 
together  by  kinship  ties  and  ruled  by  the  heads  of  their  clans. 
Trade  between  the  Akan  states  to  the  south  and  the  Mossi  king- 
doms to  the  north  flowed  through  their  homelands,  subjecting 
them  to  Islamic  influence  and  to  the  depredations  of  these 
more  powerful  neighbors. 

Of  the  components  that  would  later  make  up  Ghana,  the 
state  of  Asante  was  to  have  the  most  cohesive  history  and  would 
exercise  the  greatest  influence.  The  Asante  are  members  of  the 
Twi-speaking  branch  of  the  Akan  people.  The  groups  that 
came  to  constitute  the  core  of  the  Asante  confederacy  moved 
north  to  settle  in  the  vicinity  of  Lake  Bosumtwi.  Before  the 
mid-seventeenth  century,  the  Asante  began  an  expansion 
under  a  series  of  militant  leaders  that  led  to  the  domination  of 
surrounding  peoples  and  to  the  formation  of  the  most  power- 
ful of  the  states  of  the  central  forest  zone. 

Under  Chief  Oti  Akenten  (r.  ca.  1630-60),  a  series  of  suc- 
cessful military  operations  against  neighboring  Akan  states 
brought  a  larger  surrounding  territory  into  alliance  with 
Asante.  At  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century,  Osei  Tutu  (d. 
1712  or  1717)  became  asantehene  (king  of  Asante).  Under  Osei 
Tutu's  rule,  the  confederacy  of  Asante  states  was  transformed 
into  an  empire  with  its  capital  at  Kumasi.  Political  and  military 
consolidation  ensued,  resulting  in  firmly  established  central- 
ized authority.  Osei  Tutu  was  strongly  influenced  by  the  high 
priest,  Anokye,  who,  tradition  asserts,  caused  a  stool  of  gold  to 
descend  from  the  sky  to  seal  the  union  of  Asante  states.  Stools 


7 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

already  functioned  as  traditional  symbols  of  chieftainship,  but 
the  Golden  Stool  of  Asante  represented  the  united  spirit  of  all 
the  allied  states  and  established  a  dual  allegiance  that  superim- 
posed the  confederacy  over  the  individual  component  states. 
The  Golden  Stool  remains  a  respected  national  symbol  of  the 
traditional  past  and  figures  extensively  in  Asante  ritual. 

Osei  Tutu  permitted  newly  conquered  territories  that  joined 
the  confederation  to  retain  their  own  customs  and  chiefs,  who 
were  given  seats  on  the  Asante  state  council.  Osei  Tutu's  ges- 
ture made  the  process  relatively  easy  and  nondisruptive 
because  most  of  the  earlier  conquests  had  subjugated  other 
Akan  peoples.  Within  the  Asante  portions  of  the  confederacy, 
each  minor  state  continued  to  exercise  internal  self-rule,  and 
its  chief  jealously  guarded  the  state's  prerogatives  against 
encroachment  by  the  central  authority.  A  strong  unity  devel- 
oped, however,  as  the  various  communities  subordinated  their 
individual  interests  to  central  authority  in  matters  of  national 
concern. 

By  the  mid-eighteenth  century,  Asante  was  a  highly  orga- 
nized state.  The  wars  of  expansion  that  brought  the  northern 
states  of  Mamprusi,  Dagomba,  and  Gonja  under  Asante  influ- 
ence were  won  during  the  reign  of  Asantehene  Opoku  Ware  I 
(d.  1750),  successor  to  Osei  Tutu.  By  the  1820s,  successive  rul- 
ers had  extended  Asante  boundaries  southward.  Although  the 
northern  expansions  linked  Asante  with  trade  networks  across 
the  desert  and  in  Hausaland  to  the  east,  movements  into  the 
south  brought  the  Asante  into  contact,  sometimes  antagonistic, 
with  the  coastal  Fante,  Ga-Adangbe,  and  Ewe  peoples,  as  well  as 
with  the  various  European  merchants  whose  fortresses  dotted 
the  Gold  Coast  (see  fig.  2). 

Arrival  of  the  Europeans 

Early  European  Contact  and  the  Slave  Trade 

When  the  first  Europeans  arrived  in  the  late  fifteenth  cen- 
tury, many  inhabitants  of  the  Gold  Coast  area  were  striving  to 
consolidate  their  newly  acquired  territories  and  to  settle  into  a 
secure  and  permanent  environment.  Several  African  immi- 
grant groups  had  yet  to  establish  firm  ascendancy  over  earlier 
occupants  of  their  territories,  and  considerable  displacement 
and  secondary  migrations  were  in  progress.  Ivor  Wilks,  a  lead- 
ing historian  of  Ghana,  has  observed  that  Akan  purchases  of 
slaves  from  Portuguese  traders  operating  from  the  Congo 


8 


Historical  Setting 


region  augmented  the  labor  needed  for  the  state  formation 
that  was  characteristic  of  this  period.  Unlike  the  Akan  groups 
of  the  interior,  the  major  coastal  groups,  such  as  the  Fante, 
Ewe,  and  Ga,  were  for  the  most  part  settled  in  their  homelands. 

The  Portuguese  were  the  first  to  arrive.  By  1471,  under  the 
patronage  of  Prince  Henry  the  Navigator,  they  had  reached  the 
area  that  was  to  become  known  as  the  Gold  Coast.  Europeans 
knew  the  area  as  the  source  of  gold  that  reached  Muslim  North 
Africa  by  way  of  trade  routes  across  the  Sahara.  The  initial  Por- 
tuguese interest  in  trading  for  gold,  ivory,  and  pepper 
increased  so  much  that  in  1482  the  Portuguese  built  their  first 
permanent  trading  post  on  the  western  coast  of  present-day 
Ghana.  This  fortress,  Elmina  Castle,  constructed  to  protect 
Portuguese  trade  from  European  competitors  and  hostile  Afri- 
cans, still  stands. 

With  the  opening  of  European  plantations  in  the  New  World 
during  the  1500s,  which  suddenly  expanded  the  demand  for 
slaves  in  the  Americas,  slaves  soon  overshadowed  gold  as  the 
principal  export  of  the  area.  Indeed,  the  west  coast  of  Africa 
became  the  principal  source  of  slaves  for  the  New  World.  The 
seemingly  insatiable  market  and  the  substantial  profits  to  be 
gained  from  the  slave  trade  attracted  adventurers  from  all  over 
Europe.  Much  of  the  conflict  that  arose  among  European 
groups  on  the  coast  and  among  competing  African  kingdoms 
was  the  result  of  rivalry  for  control  of  this  trade. 

The  Portuguese  position  on  the  Gold  Coast  remained  secure 
for  almost  a  century.  During  that  time,  Lisbon  leased  the  right 
to  establish  trading  posts  to  individuals  or  companies  that 
sought  to  align  themselves  with  the  local  chiefs  and  to 
exchange  trade  goods  both  for  rights  to  conduct  commerce 
and  for  slaves  provided  by  the  chiefs.  During  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries,  adventurers — first  Dutch,  and  later 
English,  Danish,  and  Swedish — were  granted  licenses  by  their 
governments  to  trade  overseas.  On  the  Gold  Coast,  these  Euro- 
pean competitors  built  fortified  trading  stations  and  chal- 
lenged the  Portuguese.  Sometimes  they  were  also  drawn  into 
conflicts  with  local  inhabitants  as  Europeans  developed  com- 
mercial alliances  with  local  chiefs. 

The  principal  early  struggle  was  between  the  Dutch  and  the 
Portuguese.  With  the  loss  of  Elmina  in  1642  to  the  Dutch,  the 
Portuguese  left  the  Gold  Coast  permanently.  The  next  150 
years  saw  kaleidoscopic  change  and  uncertainty,  marked  by 
local  conflicts  and  diplomatic  maneuvers,  during  which  various 


9 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


MOSSI  STATES 


To  Hausaland 


To  Hausaland 


MA2M^Accra  M 

Chrlstiansborg  U 


Cape  Coast 


Qutfof guinea 


M  Axim 


Boundary  representation 
not  necessarily  authoritative 


Present-day  international 
boundary 


1  Asante  heartland 

-  Maximum  extent  of 

Asante  expansion 
Main  line  of  Asante 
expansion 

-  Main  road  of  Asante 

empire 

0    25  50  75  Kilometers 


•      Populated  place 
EWE  People 
AHAFO  State 

U     European  fortress 
1745    Date  of  Asante 

expansion  to  that  point 


25 


50 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Daryll  Forde  and  P.  M.  Kaberry,  eds.,  West  African 
Kingdoms  in  the  Nineteenth  Century,  London,  1967,  208;  and  Ivor  G.  Wilks,  Asante 
in  the  Nineteenth  Century,  London,  1975,  19. 

Figure  2.  Asante  Expansion  and  Major  European  Fortresses  in  the 
Eighteenth  Century 

European  powers  struggled  to  establish  or  to  maintain  a  posi- 
tion of  dominance  in  the  profitable  trade  of  the  Gold  Coast  lit- 
toral. Forts  were  built,  abandoned,  attacked,  captured,  sold, 


10 


Historical  Setting 


and  exchanged,  and  many  sites  were  selected  at  one  time  or 
another  for  fortified  positions  by  contending  European 
nations. 

Both  the  Dutch  and  the  British  formed  companies  to 
advance  their  African  ventures  and  to  protect  their  coastal 
establishments.  The  Dutch  West  India  Company  operated 
throughout  most  of  the  eighteenth  century.  The  British  Afri- 
can Company  of  Merchants,  founded  in  1750,  was  the  succes- 
sor to  several  earlier  organizations  of  this  type.  These 
enterprises  built  and  manned  new  installations  as  the  compa- 
nies pursued  their  trading  activities  and  defended  their  respec- 
tive jurisdictions  with  varying  degrees  of  government  backing. 
There  were  short-lived  ventures  by  the  Swedes  and  the  Prus- 
sians. The  Danes  remained  until  1850,  when  they  withdrew 
from  the  Gold  Coast.  The  British  gained  possession  of  all 
Dutch  coastal  forts  by  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, thus  making  them  the  dominant  European  power  on  the 
Gold  Coast. 

During  the  heyday  of  early  European  competition,  slavery 
was  an  accepted  social  institution,  and  the  slave  trade  overshad- 
owed all  other  commercial  activities  on  the  West  African  coast. 
To  be  sure,  slavery  and  slave  trading  were  already  firmly 
entrenched  in  many  African  societies  before  their  contact  with 
Europe.  In  most  situations,  men  as  well  as  women  captured  in 
local  warfare  became  slaves.  In  general,  however,  slaves  in  Afri- 
can communities  were  often  treated  as  junior  members  of  the 
society  with  specific  rights,  and  many  were  ultimately  absorbed 
into  their  masters'  families  as  full  members.  Given  traditional 
methods  of  agricultural  production  in  Africa,  slavery  there  was 
quite  different  from  that  which  existed  in  the  commercial  plan- 
tation environments  of  the  New  World. 

Another  aspect  of  the  impact  of  the  trans-Atlantic  slave  trade 
on  Africa  concerns  the  role  of  African  chiefs,  Muslim  traders, 
and  merchant  princes  in  the  trade.  Although  there  is  no  doubt 
that  local  rulers  in  West  Africa  engaged  in  slaving  and  received 
certain  advantages  from  it,  some  scholars  have  challenged  the 
premise  that  traditional  chiefs  in  the  vicinity  of  the  Gold  Coast 
engaged  in  wars  of  expansion  for  the  sole  purpose  of  acquiring 
slaves  for  the  export  market.  In  the  case  of  Asante,  for  exam- 
ple, rulers  of  that  kingdom  are  known  to  have  supplied  slaves 
to  both  Muslim  traders  in  the  north  and  to  Europeans  on  the 
coast.  Even  so,  the  Asante  waged  war  for  purposes  other  than 
simply  to  secure  slaves.  They  also  fought  to  pacify  territories 


11 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

that  in  theory  were  under  Asante  control,  to  exact  tribute  pay- 
ments from  subordinate  kingdoms,  and  to  secure  access  to 
trade  routes — particularly  those  that  connected  the  interior 
with  the  coast. 

It  is  important  to  mention,  however,  that  the  supply  of  slaves 
to  the  Gold  Coast  was  entirely  in  African  hands.  Although  pow- 
erful traditional  chiefs,  such  as  the  rulers  of  Asante,  Fante,  and 
Ahanta,  were  known  to  have  engaged  in  the  slave  trade,  indi- 
vidual African  merchants  such  as  John  Kabes,  John  Konny, 
Thomas  Ewusi,  and  a  broker  known  only  as  Noi  commanded 
large  bands  of  armed  men,  many  of  them  slaves,  and  engaged 
in  various  forms  of  commercial  activities  with  the  Europeans 
on  the  coast. 

The  volume  of  the  slave  trade  in  West  Africa  grew  rapidly 
from  its  inception  around  1500  to  its  peak  in  the  eighteenth 
century.  Philip  Curtin,  a  leading  authority  on  the  African  slave 
trade,  estimates  that  roughly  6.3  million  slaves  were  shipped 
from  West  Africa  to  North  America  and  South  America,  about 
4.5  million  of  that  number  between  1701  and  1810.  Perhaps 
5,000  a  year  were  shipped  from  the  Gold  Coast  alone.  The 
demographic  impact  of  the  slave  trade  on  West  Africa  was  prob- 
ably substantially  greater  than  the  number  actually  enslaved 
because  a  significant  number  of  Africans  perished  during  slav- 
ing raids  or  while  in  captivity  awaiting  transshipment.  All 
nations  with  an  interest  in  West  Africa  participated  in  the  slave 
trade.  Relations  between  the  Europeans  and  the  local  popula- 
tions were  often  strained,  and  distrust  led  to  frequent  clashes. 
Disease  caused  high  losses  among  the  Europeans  engaged  in 
the  slave  trade,  but  the  profits  realized  from  the  trade  contin- 
ued to  attract  them. 

The  growth  of  anti-slavery  sentiment  among  Europeans 
made  slow  progress  against  vested  African  and  European  inter- 
ests that  were  reaping  profits  from  the  traffic.  Although  individ- 
ual clergymen  condemned  the  slave  trade  as  early  as  the 
seventeenth  century,  major  Christian  denominations  did  little 
to  further  early  efforts  at  abolition.  The  Quakers,  however, 
publicly  declared  themselves  against  slavery  as  early  as  1727. 
Later  in  the  century,  the  Danes  stopped  trading  in  slaves;  Swe- 
den and  the  Netherlands  soon  followed. 

The  importation  of  slaves  into  the  United  States  was  out- 
lawed in  1807.  In  the  same  year,  Britain  used  its  naval  power 
and  its  diplomatic  muscle  to  outlaw  trade  in  slaves  by  its  citizens 
and  to  begin  a  campaign  to  stop  the  international  trade  in 


12 


Historical  Setting 


slaves.  These  efforts,  however,  were  not  successful  until  the 
1860s  because  of  the  continued  demand  for  plantation  labor  in 
the  New  World. 

Because  it  took  decades  to  end  the  trade  in  slaves,  some  his- 
torians doubt  that  the  humanitarian  impulse  inspired  the  abo- 
litionist movement.  According  to  historian  Walter  Rodney,  for 
example,  Europe  abolished  the  trans-Atlantic  slave  trade  only 
because  its  profitability  was  undermined  by  the  Industrial  Revo- 
lution. Rodney  argues  that  mass  unemployment  caused  by  the 
new  industrial  machinery,  the  need  for  new  raw  materials,  and 
European  competition  for  markets  for  finished  goods  are  the 
real  factors  that  brought  an  end  to  the  trade  in  human  cargo 
and  the  beginning  of  competition  for  colonial  territories  in 
Africa.  Other  scholars,  however,  disagree  with  Rodney,  arguing 
that  humanitarian  concerns  as  well  as  social  and  economic  fac- 
tors were  instrumental  in  ending  the  African  slave  trade. 

Britain  and  the  Gold  Coast:  The  Early  Years 

By  the  early  nineteenth  century,  the  British,  through  con- 
quest or  purchase,  had  become  masters  of  most  of  the  forts 
along  the  coast.  Two  major  factors  laid  the  foundations  of  Brit- 
ish rule  and  the  eventual  establishment  of  a  colony  on  the  Gold 
Coast:  British  reaction  to  the  Asante  wars  and  the  resulting 
instability  and  disruption  of  trade,  and  Britain's  increasing  pre- 
occupation with  the  suppression  and  elimination  of  the  slave 
trade. 

During  most  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Asante,  the  most 
powerful  state  of  the  Akan  interior,  sought  to  expand  its  rule 
and  to  promote  and  protect  its  trade.  The  first  Asante  invasion 
of  the  coastal  regions  took  place  in  1807;  the  Asante  moved 
south  again  in  1811  and  in  1814.  These  invasions,  though  not 
decisive,  disrupted  trade  in  such  products  as  gold,  timber,  and 
palm  oil,  and  threatened  the  security  of  the  European  forts. 
Local  British,  Dutch,  and  Danish  authorities  were  all  forced  to 
come  to  terms  with  Asante,  and  in  1817  the  African  Company 
of  Merchants  signed  a  treaty  of  friendship  that  recognized 
Asante  claims  to  sovereignty  over  large  areas  of  the  coast  and  its 
peoples. 

The  coastal  people,  primarily  some  of  the  Fante  and  the 
inhabitants  of  the  new  town  of  Accra,  who  were  chiefly  Ga, 
came  to  rely  on  British  protection  against  Asante  incursions, 
but  the  ability  of  the  merchant  companies  to  provide  this  secu- 
rity was  limited.  The  British  Crown  dissolved  the  company  in 


13 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

1821,  giving  authority  over  British  forts  on  the  Gold  Coast  to 
Governor  Charles  MacCarthy,  governor  of  Sierra  Leone.  The 
British  forts  and  Sierra  Leone  remained  under  common 
administration  for  the  first  half  of  the  century.  MacCarthy's 
mandate  was  to  impose  peace  and  to  end  the  slave  trade.  He 
sought  to  do  this  by  encouraging  the  coastal  peoples  to  oppose 
Kumasi  rule  and  by  closing  the  great  roads  to  the  coast.  Inci- 
dents and  sporadic  warfare  continued,  however.  MacCarthy  was 
killed,  and  most  of  his  force  was  wiped  out  in  a  battle  with 
Asante  forces  in  1824.  An  Asante  invasion  of  the  coast  in  1826 
was  defeated,  nonetheless,  by  British  and  local  forces,  includ- 
ing the  Fante  and  the  people  of  Accra. 

When  the  British  government  allowed  control  of  the  Gold 
Coast  settlements  to  revert  to  the  British  African  Company  of 
Merchants  in  the  late  1820s,  relations  with  Asante  were  still 
problematic.  From  the  Asante  point  of  view,  the  British  had 
failed  to  control  the  activities  of  their  local  coastal  allies.  Had 
this  been  done,  Asante  might  not  have  found  it  necessary  to 
attempt  to  impose  peace  on  the  coastal  peoples.  MacCarthy's 
encouragement  of  coastal  opposition  to  Asante  and  the  subse- 
quent 1824  British  military  attack  further  indicated  to  Asante 
authorities  that  the  Europeans,  especially  the  British,  did  not 
respect  Asante. 

In  1830  a  London  committee  of  merchants  chose  Captain 
George  Maclean  to  become  president  of  a  local  council  of  mer- 
chants. Although  his  formal  jurisdiction  was  limited,  Maclean's 
achievements  were  substantial;  for  example,  a  peace  treaty  was 
arranged  with  Asante  in  1831.  Maclean  also  supervised  the 
coastal  people  by  holding  regular  court  in  Cape  Coast,  where 
he  punished  those  found  guilty  of  disturbing  the  peace. 
Between  1830  and  1843,  while  Maclean  was  in  charge  of  affairs 
on  the  Gold  Coast,  no  confrontations  occurred  with  Asante, 
and  the  volume  of  trade  reportedly  increased  threefold. 
Maclean's  exercise  of  limited  judicial  power  on  the  coast  was  so 
effective  that  a  parliamentary  committee  recommended  that 
the  British  government  permanently  administer  its  settlements 
and  negotiate  treaties  with  the  coastal  chiefs  that  would  define 
Britain's  relations  with  them.  The  government  did  so  in  1843, 
the  same  year  crown  government  was  reinstated.  Commander 
H.  Worsley  Hill  was  appointed  first  governor  of  the  Gold  Coast. 
Under  Maclean's  administration,  several  coastal  tribes  had  sub- 
mitted voluntarily  to  British  protection.  Hill  proceeded  to 
define  the  conditions  and  responsibilities  of  his  jurisdiction 


14 


Historical  Setting 


over  the  protected  areas.  He  negotiated  a  special  treaty  with  a 
number  of  Fante  and  other  local  chiefs  that  became  known  as 
the  Bond  of  1844.  This  document  obliged  local  leaders  to  sub- 
mit serious  crimes,  such  as  murder  and  robbery,  to  British  juris- 
diction and  laid  the  legal  foundation  for  subsequent  British 
colonization  of  the  coastal  area. 

Additional  coastal  states  as  well  as  other  states  farther  inland 
eventually  signed  the  Bond,  and  British  influence  was 
accepted,  strengthened,  and  expanded.  Under  the  terms  of  the 
1844  arrangement,  the  British  gave  the  impression  that  they 
would  protect  the  coastal  areas;  thus,  an  informal  protectorate 
came  into  being.  As  responsibilities  for  defending  local  allies 
and  managing  the  affairs  of  the  coastal  protectorate  increased, 
the  administration  of  the  Gold  Coast  was  separated  from  that 
of  Sierra  Leone  in  1850. 

At  about  the  same  time,  growing  acceptance  of  the  advan- 
tages offered  by  the  British  presence  led  to  the  initiation  of 
another  important  step.  In  April  1852,  local  chiefs  and  elders 
met  at  Cape  Coast  to  consult  with  the  governor  on  means  of 
raising  revenue.  With  the  governor's  approval,  the  council  of 
chiefs  constituted  itself  as  a  legislative  assembly.  In  approving 
its  resolutions,  the  governor  indicated  that  the  assembly  of 
chiefs  should  become  a  permanent  fixture  of  the  protectorate's 
constitutional  machinery,  but  the  assembly  was  given  no  spe- 
cific constitutional  authority  to  pass  laws  or  to  levy  taxes  with- 
out the  consent  of  the  people. 

In  1872  British  influence  over  the  Gold  Coast  increased  fur- 
ther when  Britain  purchased  Elmina  Castle,  the  last  of  the 
Dutch  forts  along  the  coast.  The  Asante,  who  for  years  had  con- 
sidered the  Dutch  at  Elmina  as  their  allies,  thereby  lost  their 
last  trade  outlet  to  the  sea.  To  prevent  this  loss  and  to  ensure 
that  revenue  received  from  that  post  continued,  the  Asante 
staged  their  last  invasion  of  the  coast  in  1873.  After  early  suc- 
cesses, they  finally  came  up  against  well-trained  British  forces 
who  compelled  them  to  retreat  beyond  the  Pra  River.  Later 
attempts  to  negotiate  a  settlement  of  the  conflict  with  the  Brit- 
ish were  rejected  by  the  commander  of  their  forces,  Major 
General  Sir  Garnet  Wolseley.  To  settle  the  Asante  problem  per- 
manently, the  British  invaded  Asante  with  a  sizable  military 
force.  The  attack,  which  was  launched  in  January  1874  by  2,500 
British  soldiers  and  large  numbers  of  African  auxiliaries, 
resulted  in  the  occupation  and  burning  of  Kumasi,  the  Asante 
capital. 


15 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

The  subsequent  peace  treaty  required  the  Asante  to 
renounce  any  claim  to  many  southern  territories.  The  Asante 
also  had  to  keep  the  road  to  Kumasi  open  to  trade.  From  this 
point  on,  Asante  power  steadily  declined.  The  confederation 
slowly  disintegrated  as  subject  territories  broke  away  and  as 
protected  regions  defected  to  British  rule.  The  warrior  spirit  of 
the  nation  was  not  entirely  subdued,  however,  and  enforce- 
ment of  the  treaty  led  to  recurring  difficulties  and  outbreaks  of 
fighting.  In  1896  the  British  dispatched  another  expedition 
that  again  occupied  Kumasi  and  that  forced  Asante  to  become 
a  protectorate  of  the  British  Crown.  The  position  of  asantehene 
was  abolished,  and  the  incumbent  was  exiled. 

The  core  of  the  Asante  federation  accepted  these  terms 
grudgingly.  In  1900  the  Asante  rebelled  again  but  were 
defeated  the  next  year,  and  in  1902  the  British  proclaimed 
Asante  a  colony  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  governor  of  the 
Gold  Coast.  The  annexation  was  made  with  misgivings  and 
recriminations  on  both  sides.  With  Asante  subdued  and 
annexed,  British  colonization  of  the  region  became  a  reality. 

The  Colonial  Era:  British  Rule  of  the  Gold  Coast 

Military  confrontations  between  Asante  and  the  Fante  con- 
tributed to  the  growth  of  British  influence  on  the  Gold  Coast. 
It  was  concern  about  Asante  activities  on  the  coast  that  had 
compelled  the  Fante  states  to  sign  the  Bond  of  1844.  In  theory, 
the  bond  allowed  the  British  quite  limited  judicial  powers— the 
trying  of  murder  and  robbery  cases  only.  Also,  the  British  could 
not  acquire  further  judicial  rights  without  the  consent  of  the 
kings,  chiefs,  and  people  of  the  protectorate.  In  practice,  how- 
ever, British  efforts  to  usurp  more  and  more  judicial  authority 
were  so  successful  that  in  the  1850s  they  considered  establish- 
ing European  courts  in  place  of  traditional  African  ones. 

As  a  result  of  the  exercise  of  ever-expanding  judicial  powers 
on  the  coast  and  also  to  ensure  that  the  coastal  peoples 
remained  firmly  under  control,  the  British,  following  their 
defeat  of  Asante  in  1874,  proclaimed  the  former  coastal  protec- 
torate a  crown  colony.  The  Gold  Coast  Colony,  established  on 
July  24,  1874,  comprised  the  coastal  areas  and  extended  inland 
as  far  as  the  ill-defined  borders  of  Asante. 

The  coastal  peoples  did  not  greet  this  move  with  enthusiasm. 
They  were  not  consulted  about  this  annexation,  which  arbi- 
trarily set  aside  the  Bond  of  1844  and  treated  its  signatories  like 
conquered  territories.  The  British,  however,  made  no  claim  to 


16 


Historical  Setting 


any  rights  to  the  land,  a  circumstance  that  probably  explains 
the  absence  of  popular  resistance.  Shortly  after  declaring  the 
coastal  area  a  colony,  the  British  moved  the  colonial  capital 
from  Cape  Coast  to  the  former  Danish  castle  at  Christiansborg 
in  Accra. 

The  British  sphere  of  influence  was  eventually  extended  to 
include  Asante.  Following  the  defeat  of  Asante  in  1896,  the 
British  proclaimed  a  protectorate  over  the  kingdom.  Once  the 
asantehene  and  his  council  had  been  exiled,  the  British 
appointed  a  resident  commissioner  to  Asante,  who  was  given 
both  civil  and  criminal  jurisdiction  over  the  territories.  Each 
Asante  state  was  administered  from  Kumasi  as  a  separate  entity 
and  was  ultimately  responsible  to  the  governor  of  the  Gold 
Coast.  As  noted  above,  Asante  became  a  colony  following  its 
final  defeat  in  1901. 

In  the  meantime,  the  British  became  interested  in  the  broad 
areas  north  of  Asante,  known  generally  as  the  Northern  Terri- 
tories. This  interest  was  prompted  primarily  by  the  need  to 
forestall  the  French  and  the  Germans,  who  had  been  making 
rapid  advances  in  the  surrounding  areas.  British  officials  had 
first  penetrated  the  area  in  the  1880s,  and  after  1896  protec- 
tion was  extended  to  northern  areas  whose  trade  with  the  coast 
had  been  controlled  by  Asante.  In  1898  and  1899,  European 
colonial  powers  amicably  demarcated  the  boundaries  between 
the  Northern  Territories  and  the  surrounding  French  and  Ger- 
man colonies.  The  Northern  Territories  were  proclaimed  a 
British  protectorate  in  1902. 

Like  the  Asante  protectorate,  the  Northern  Territories  were 
placed  under  the  authority  of  a  resident  commissioner  who  was 
responsible  to  the  governor  of  the  Gold  Coast.  The  governor 
ruled  both  Asante  and  the  Northern  Territories  by  proclama- 
tions until  1946. 

With  the  north  under  British  control,  the  three  territories  of 
the  Gold  Coast — the  Colony  (the  coastal  regions),  Asante,  and 
the  Northern  Territories — became,  for  all  practical  purposes,  a 
single  political  unit,  or  crown  colony,  known  as  "the  depen- 
dency" or  simply  as  the  Gold  Coast.  The  borders  of  present-day 
Ghana  were  realized  in  May  1956  when  the  people  of  the  Volta 
region,  known  as  British  Mandated  Togoland,  voted  in  a  plebi- 
scite to  become  part  of  modern  Ghana  (see  fig.  3). 

Colonial  Administration 

Beginning  in  1850,  the  coastal  regions  increasingly  came 


17 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


 Region  boundary 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  William  Ernest  Ward,  A  History  of  Ghana,  London, 
1958,  24. 

Figure  3.  Administrative  Divisions  of  the  Gold  Coast,  mid-1 950s 

under  control  of  the  governor  of  the  British  fortresses,  who  was 
assisted  by  the  Executive  Council  and  the  Legislative  Council. 
The  Executive  Council  was  a  small  advisory  body  of  European 
officials  that  recommended  laws  and  voted  taxes,  subject  to  the 
governor's  approval.  The  Legislative  Council  included  the 
members  of  the  Executive  Council  and  unofficial  members  ini- 
tially chosen  from  British  commercial  interests.  After  1900 
three  chiefs  and  three  other  Africans  were  added  to  the  Legis- 


18 


Historical  Setting 


lative  Council,  these  being  chosen  from  the  Europeanized 
communities  of  Accra,  Cape  Coast,  and  Sekondi.  The  inclusion 
of  Africans  from  Asante  and  the  Northern  Territories  did  not 
take  place  until  much  later.  Prior  to  1925,  all  members  of  the 
Legislative  Council  were  appointed  by  the  governor.  Official 
members  always  outnumbered  unofficial  members. 

The  gradual  emergence  of  centralized  colonial  government 
brought  about  unified  control  over  local  services,  although  the 
actual  administration  of  these  services  was  still  delegated  to 
local  authorities.  Specific  duties  and  responsibilities  came  to  be 
clearly  delineated,  and  the  role  of  traditional  states  in  local 
administration  was  also  clarified. 

The  structure  of  local  government  had  its  roots  in  tradi- 
tional patterns  of  government.  Village  councils  of  chiefs  and 
elders  were  almost  exclusively  responsible  for  the  immediate 
needs  of  individual  localities,  including  traditional  law  and 
order  and  the  general  welfare.  The  councils,  however,  ruled  by 
consent  rather  than  by  right.  Chiefs  were  chosen  by  the  ruling 
class  of  the  society;  a  traditional  leader  continued  to  rule  not 
only  because  he  was  the  choice  of  what  may  be  termed  the 
nobility,  but  also  because  he  was  accepted  by  his  people.  The 
unseating  or  destooling  of  a  chief  by  tribal  elders  was  a  fairly 
common  practice  if  the  chief  failed  to  meet  the  desires  or 
expectations  of  the  community  (see  Traditional  Patterns  of 
Social  Relations,  ch.  2). 

Traditional  chiefs  figured  prominently  in  the  system  of  indi- 
rect rule  adopted  by  British  authorities  to  administer  their  col- 
onies in  Africa.  According  to  Frederick  Lugard,  architect  of  the 
policy,  indirect  rule  was  cost  effective  because  it  reduced  the 
number  of  European  officials  in  the  field.  By  allowing  local  rul- 
ers to  exercise  direct  administrative  control  over  their  people, 
opposition  to  European  rule  from  the  local  population  would 
be  minimized.  The  chiefs,  however,  were  to  take  instructions 
from  their  European  supervisors.  The  plan,  according  to 
Lugard,  had  the  further  advantage  of  civilizing  the  natives 
because  it  exposed  traditional  rulers  to  the  benefits  of  Euro- 
pean political  organization  and  values.  This  "civilizing"  process 
notwithstanding,  indirect  rule  had  the  ultimate  advantage  of 
guaranteeing  the  maintenance  of  law  and  order. 

The  application  of  indirect  rule  in  the  Gold  Coast  became 
essential,  especially  after  Asante  and  the  Northern  Territories 
were  brought  under  British  rule.  Before  the  effective  coloniza- 
tion of  these  territories,  the  intention  of  the  British  was  to  use 


19 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

both  force  and  agreements  to  control  chiefs  in  Asante  and  the 
north.  Once  indirect  rule  was  implemented,  the  chiefs  became 
responsible  to  the  colonial  authorities  who  supported  them.  In 
many  respects,  therefore,  the  power  of  each  chief  was  greatly 
enhanced.  Although  Lugard  pointed  to  the  civilizing  influence 
of  indirect  rule,  critics  of  the  policy  argued  that  the  element  of 
popular  participation  was  removed  from  the  traditional  politi- 
cal system.  Despite  the  theoretical  argument  in  favor  of  decen- 
tralization, indirect  rule  in  practice  caused  chiefs  to  look  to 
Accra  (the  capital)  rather  than  to  their  people  for  all  decisions. 

Many  chiefs  and  elders  came  to  regard  themselves  as  a  rul- 
ing aristocracy.  Their  councils  were  generally  led  by  govern- 
ment commissioners,  who  often  rewarded  the  chiefs  with 
honors,  decorations,  and  knighthood.  Indirect  rule  tended  to 
preserve  traditional  forms  and  sources  of  power,  however,  and 
it  failed  to  provide  meaningful  opportunities  for  the  growing 
number  of  educated  young  men  anxious  to  find  a  niche  in 
their  country's  development.  Other  groups  were  dissatisfied 
because  there  was  not  sufficient  cooperation  between  the 
councils  and  the  central  government  and  because  some  felt 
that  the  local  authorities  were  too  dominated  by  the  British  dis- 
trict commissioners. 

In  1925  provincial  councils  of  chiefs  were  established  in  all 
three  territories  of  the  colony,  partly  to  give  the  chiefs  a  colony- 
wide  function.  This  move  was  followed  in  1927  by  the  promul- 
gation of  the  Native  Administration  Ordinance,  which  replaced 
an  1883  arrangement  that  had  placed  chiefs  in  the  Gold  Coast 
Colony  under  British  supervision.  The  purpose  was  to  clarify 
and  to  regulate  the  powers  and  areas  of  jurisdiction  of  chiefs 
and  councils.  Councils  were  given  specific  responsibilities  over 
disputed  elections  and  the  unseating  of  chiefs;  the  procedure 
for  the  election  of  chiefs  was  set  forth;  and  judicial  powers  were 
defined  and  delegated.  Councils  were  entrusted  with  the  role 
of  defining  customary  law  in  their  areas  (the  government  had 
to  approve  their  decisions),  and  the  provincial  councils  were 
empowered  to  become  tribunals  to  decide  matters  of  custom- 
ary law  when  the  dispute  lay  between  chiefs  in  different  hierar- 
chies. Until  1939,  when  the  Native  Treasuries  Ordinance  was 
passed,  however,  there  was  no  provision  for  local  budgets.  In 
1935  the  Native  Authorities  Ordinance  combined  the  central 
colonial  government  and  the  local  authorities  into  a  single  gov- 
erning system.  New  native  authorities,  appointed  by  the  gover- 
nor, were  given  wide  powers  of  local  government  under  the 


20 


Historical  Setting 


supervision  of  the  central  government's  provincial  commission- 
ers, who  assured  that  their  policies  would  be  those  of  the  cen- 
tral government. 

The  provincial  councils  and  moves  to  strengthen  them  were 
not  popular.  Even  by  British  standards,  the  chiefs  were  not 
given  enough  power  to  be  effective  instruments  of  indirect 
rule.  Some  Ghanaians  believed  that  the  reforms,  by  increasing 
the  power  of  the  chiefs  at  the  expense  of  local  initiative,  per- 
mitted the  colonial  government  to  avoid  movement  toward  any 
form  of  popular  participation  in  the  colony's  government. 

Economic  and  Social  Development 

The  years  of  British  administration  of  the  Gold  Coast  during 
the  twentieth  century  were  an  era  of  significant  progress  in 
social,  economic,  and  educational  development.  Transporta- 
tion, for  example,  was  greatly  improved.  The  Sekondi-Tarkwa 
railroad,  begun  in  1898,  was  extended  until  it  connected  most 
of  the  important  commercial  centers  of  the  south,  and  by  1937, 
there  were  9,700  kilometers  of  roads.  Telecommunication  and 
postal  services  were  initiated  as  well. 

New  crops  were  also  introduced  and  gained  widespread 
acceptance.  Cacao  trees,  introduced  in  1878,  brought  the  first 
cash  crop  to  the  farmers  of  the  interior;  cocoa  became  the 
mainstay  of  the  nation's  economy  in  the  1920s  when  disease 
wiped  out  Brazil's  trees.  The  production  of  cocoa  was  largely  in 
the  hands  of  Africans.  The  Cocoa  Marketing  Board  was  created 
in  1947  to  assist  farmers  and  to  stabilize  the  production  and 
sale  of  their  crop.  By  the  end  of  that  decade,  the  Gold  Coast 
was  supplying  more  than  half  of  the  world's  cocoa. 

The  colony's  earnings  increased  further  from  the  export  of 
timber  and  gold.  Gold,  which  initially  brought  Europeans  to 
the  Gold  Coast,  remained  in  the  hands  of  Africans  until  the 
1890s.  Traditional  techniques  of  panning  and  shaft  mining, 
however,  yielded  only  limited  output.  The  development  of 
modern  modes  of  extracting  minerals  made  gold  mining  an 
exclusively  foreign-run  enterprise.  For  example,  Ashanti  Gold- 
fields  Corporation,  which  was  organized  in  1897,  gained  a  con- 
cession of  about  160  square  kilometers  in  which  to  prospect 
commercially  for  gold.  Although  certain  tribal  authorities  prof- 
ited greatly  from  the  granting  of  mining  concessions,  it  was  the 
European  mining  companies  and  the  colonial  government 
that  accumulated  much  of  the  wealth.  Revenue  from  export  of 
the  colony's  natural  resources  financed  internal  improvements 


21 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

in  infrastructure  and  social  services.  The  foundation  of  an  edu- 
cational system  more  advanced  than  any  other  in  West  Africa 
also  resulted  from  mineral  export  revenue. 

Many  of  the  economic  and  social  improvements  in  the  Gold 
Coast  in  the  early  part  of  the  twentieth  century  have  been 
attributed  to  Frederick  Gordon  Guggisberg,  governor  from 
1919  to  192V.  Born  in  Toronto,  Canada,  Guggisberg  joined  the 
British  army  in  1889.  During  the  first  decade  of  the  twentieth 
century,  he  worked  as  a  surveyor  in  the  British  colonies  of  the 
Gold  Coast  and  Nigeria,  and  later,  during  World  War  I,  he 
served  in  France. 

At  the  beginning  of  his  governorship  of  the  Gold  Coast, 
Guggisberg  presented  a  ten-year  development  program  to  the 
Legislative  Council.  He  suggested  first  the  improvement  of 
transportation.  Then,  in  order  of  priority,  his  prescribed 
improvements  included  water  supply,  drainage,  hydroelectric 
projects,  public  buildings,  town  improvements,  schools,  hospi- 
tals, prisons,  communication  lines,  and  other  services.  Guggis- 
berg also  set  a  goal  of  filling  half  of  the  colony's  technical 
positions  with  Africans  as  soon  as  they  could  be  trained.  His 
program  has  been  described  as  the  most  ambitious  ever  pro- 
posed in  West  Africa  up  to  that  time.  Another  of  the  governor's 
programs  led  to  the  development  of  an  artificial  harbor  at 
Takoradi,  which  then  became  Ghana's  first  port.  Achimota  Col- 
lege, which  developed  into  one  of  the  nation's  finest  secondary 
schools,  was  also  a  Guggisberg  idea. 

During  the  colonial  years,  the  country's  educational  institu- 
tions improved  markedly.  From  beginnings  in  missionary 
schools,  the  early  part  of  the  twentieth  century  saw  significant 
advances  in  many  fields,  and,  although  the  missions  continued 
to  participate,  the  government  steadily  increased  its  interest 
and  support.  In  1909  the  government  established  a  technical 
school  and  a  teachers'  training  college  at  Accra;  several  other 
secondary  schools  were  set  up  by  the  missions.  The  govern- 
ment steadily  increased  its  financial  backing  for  the  growing 
number  of  both  state  and  mission  schools.  In  1948  the  country 
opened  its  first  center  of  higher  learning,  the  University  Col- 
lege. It  was  through  British-style  education  that  a  new  Ghana- 
ian elite  gained  the  means  and  the  desire  to  strive  for 
independence. 

The  colony  assisted  Britain  in  both  World  War  I  and  World 
War  II.  From  1914  to  1918,  the  Gold  Coast  Regiment  served 
with  distinction  in  battles  against  German  forces  in  Cameroon 


22 


Asantehene  Otumfuo  Nana  Opoku  Ware  II  sitting  in  state  to  receive 

homage  from  his  subjects 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 
The  paramount  chief  ofNakong,  Kasena  people,  far  northern  Ghana 
Courtesy  life  in  general  (Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper  Le  Van) 


23 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

and  in  the  long  East  Africa  campaign.  In  World  War  II,  troops 
from  the  Gold  Coast  emerged  with  even  greater  prestige  after 
outstanding  service  in  such  places  as  Ethiopia  and  Burma.  In 
the  ensuing  years,  however,  postwar  problems  of  inflation  and 
instability  severely  hampered  readjustment  for  returning  veter- 
ans, who  were  in  the  forefront  of  growing  discontent  and 
unrest.  Their  war  service  and  veterans'  associations  had  broad- 
ened their  horizons,  making  it  difficult  for  them  to  return  to 
the  humble  and  circumscribed  positions  set  aside  for  Africans 
by  the  colonial  authorities. 

The  Growth  of  Nationalism  and  the  End  of  Colonial 
Rule 

As  the  country  developed  economically,  the  focus  of  govern- 
ment power  gradually  shifted  from  the  hands  of  the  governor 
and  his  officials  into  those  of  Ghanaians.  The  changes  resulted 
from  the  gradual  development  of  a  strong  spirit  of  nationalism 
and  were  to  result  eventually  in  independence.  The  develop- 
ment of  national  consciousness  accelerated  quickly  after  World 
War  II,  when,  in  addition  to  ex-servicemen,  a  substantial  group 
of  urban  African  workers  and  traders  emerged  to  lend  mass 
support  to  the  aspirations  of  a  small  educated  minority.  Once 
the  movement  had  begun,  events  moved  rapidly — not  always 
fast  enough  to  satisfy  the  nationalist  leaders,  but  still  at  a  pace 
that  surprised  not  only  the  colonial  government  but  also  many 
of  the  more  conservative  Africans. 

Early  Manifestations  of  Nationalism 

As  early  as  the  latter  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  a  grow- 
ing number  of  educated  Africans  found  an  arbitrary  political 
system  that  placed  almost  all  power  in  the  hands  of  the  gover- 
nor through  his  appointment  of  council  members  increasingly 
unacceptable.  In  the  1890s,  some  members  of  the  educated 
coastal  elite  organized  themselves  into  the  Aborigines'  Rights 
Protection  Society  to  protest  a  land  bill  that  threatened  tradi- 
tional land  tenure.  This  protest  helped  lay  the  foundation  for 
political  action  that  would  ultimately  lead  to  independence.  In 
1920  one  of  the  African  members  of  the  Legislative  Council, 
Joseph  E.  Casely-Hayford,  convened  the  National  Congress  of 
British  West  Africa,  which  sent  a  delegation  to  London  to  urge 
the  Colonial  Office  to  consider  the  principle  of  elected  repre- 
sentation. The  group,  which  claimed  to  speak  for  all  British 


24 


Historical  Setting 


West  African  colonies,  represented  the  first  expression  of  polit- 
ical solidarity  between  intellectuals  and  nationalists  of  the  area. 
Even  though  the  delegation  was  not  received  in  London  (on 
the  grounds  that  it  represented  only  the  interests  of  a  small 
group  of  urbanized  Africans),  its  actions  aroused  considerable 
support  among  the  African  elite  at  home. 

Notwithstanding  their  call  for  elected  representation  as 
opposed  to  a  system  whereby  the  governor  appointed  council 
members,  these  nationalists  insisted  that  they  were  loyal  to  the 
British  Crown  and  that  they  merely  sought  an  extension  of  Brit- 
ish political  and  social  practices  to  Africans.  Notable  leaders 
included  Africanus  Horton,  Jr.,  J.M.  Sarbah,  and  S.R.B. 
Attah-Ahoma.  Such  men  gave  the  nationalist  movement  a  dis- 
tinctly elitist  flavor  that  was  to  last  until  the  late  1940s. 

The  constitution  of  1925,  promulgated  by  Guggisberg,  cre- 
ated provincial  councils  of  paramount  chiefs  for  all  but  the 
northern  provinces  of  the  colony.  These  councils  in  turn 
elected  six  chiefs  as  unofficial  members  of  the  Legislative 
Council.  Although  the  new  constitution  appeared  to  recognize 
African  sentiments,  Guggisberg  was  concerned  primarily  with 
protecting  British  interests.  For  example,  he  provided  Africans 
with  a  limited  voice  in  the  central  government;  yet,  by  limiting 
nominations  to  chiefs,  he  drove  a  wedge  between  chiefs  and 
their  educated  subjects.  The  intellectuals  believed  that  the 
chiefs,  in  return  for  British  support,  had  allowed  the  provincial 
councils  to  fall  completely  under  control  of  the  government. 
By  the  mid-1930s,  however,  a  gradual  rapprochement  between 
chiefs  and  intellectuals  had  begun. 

Agitation  for  more  adequate  representation  continued. 
Newspapers  owned  and  managed  by  Africans  played  a  major 
part  in  provoking  this  discontent — six  were  being  published  in 
the  1930s.  As  a  result  of  the  call  for  broader  representation,  two 
more  unofficial  African  members  were  added  to  the  Executive 
Council  in  1943.  Changes  in  the  Legislative  Council,  however, 
had  to  await  a  different  political  climate  in  London,  which 
came  about  only  with  the  postwar  election  of  a  British  Labour 
Party  government. 

The  new  Gold  Coast  constitution  of  1946  (also  known  as  the 
Burns  constitution  after  the  governor  of  the  time)  was  a  bold 
document.  For  the  first  time,  the  concept  of  an  official  majority 
was  abandoned.  The  Legislative  Council  was  now  composed  of 
six  ex-officio  members,  six  nominated  members,  and  eighteen 
elected  members.  The  1946  constitution  also  admitted  repre- 


25 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

sentatives  from  Asante  into  the  council  for  the  first  time.  Even 
with  a  Labour  Party  government  in  power,  however,  the  British 
continued  to  view  the  colonies  as  a  source  of  raw  materials  that 
were  needed  to  strengthen  their  crippled  economy.  Change 
that  would  place  real  power  in  African  hands  was  not  a  priority 
among  British  leaders  until  after  rioting  and  looting  in  Accra 
and  other  towns  and  cities  in  early  1948  over  issues  of  pensions 
for  ex-servicemen,  the  dominant  role  of  foreigners  in  the  econ- 
omy, the  shortage  of  housing,  and  other  economic  and  politi- 
cal grievances. 

With  elected  members  in  a  decisive  majority,  Ghana  had 
reached  a  level  of  political  maturity  unequaled  anywhere  in 
colonial  Africa.  The  constitution  did  not,  however,  grant  full 
self-government.  Executive  power  remained  in  the  hands  of 
the  governor,  to  whom  the  Legislative  Council  was  responsible. 
Hence,  the  constitution,  although  greeted  with  enthusiasm  as  a 
significant  milestone,  soon  encountered  trouble.  World  War  II 
had  just  ended,  and  many  Gold  Coast  veterans  who  had  served 
in  British  overseas  expeditions  returned  to  a  country  beset  with 
shortages,  inflation,  unemployment,  and  black-market  prac- 
tices. These  veterans,  along  with  discontented  urban  elements, 
formed  a  nucleus  of  malcontents  ripe  for  disruptive  action. 
They  were  now  joined  by  farmers,  who  resented  drastic  govern- 
mental measures  that  mandated  the  cutting  down  of  diseased 
cacao  trees  in  order  to  control  an  epidemic,  and  by  many  oth- 
ers who  were  unhappy  that  the  end  of  the  war  had  not  been  fol- 
lowed by  economic  improvements. 

The  Politics  of  the  Independence  Movements 

Although  political  organizations  had  existed  in  the  British 
colony,  the  United  Gold  Coast  Convention  (UGCC)  was  the 
first  nationalist  movement  with  the  aim  of  self-government  "in 
the  shortest  possible  time."  Founded  in  August  1947  by  edu- 
cated Africans  such  as  J.B.  Danquah,  A.G.  Grant,  R.A. 
Awoonor-Williams,  Edward  Akufo  Addo  (all  lawyers  except  for 
Grant,  who  was  a  wealthy  businessman),  and  others,  the  leader- 
ship of  the  organization  called  for  the  replacement  of  chiefs  on 
the  Legislative  Council  with  educated  persons.  For  these  politi- 
cal leaders,  traditional  governance,  exercised  largely  via  indi- 
rect rule,  was  identified  with  colonial  interests  and  the  past. 
They  believed  that  it  was  their  responsibility  to  lead  their  coun- 
try into  a  new  age.  They  also  demanded  that,  given  their  educa- 
tion, the  colonial  administration  should  respect  them  and 


26 


Historical  Setting 


accord  them  positions  of  responsibility.  As  one  writer  on  the 
period  reported,  "The  symbols  of  progress,  science,  freedom, 
youth,  all  became  cues  which  the  new  leadership  evoked  and 
reinforced."  In  particular,  the  UGCC  leadership  criticized  the 
government  for  its  failure  to  solve  the  problems  of  unemploy- 
ment, inflation,  and  the  disturbances  that  had  come  to  charac- 
terize the  society  at  the  end  of  the  war. 

Their  opposition  to  the  colonial  administration  notwith- 
standing, UGCC  members  were  conservative  in  the  sense  that 
their  leadership  did  not  seek  drastic  or  revolutionary  change. 
This  was  probably  a  result  of  their  training  in  the  British  way  of 
doing  things.  The  gentlemanly  manner  in  which  politics  were 
then  conducted  was  to  change  after  Kwame  Nkrumah  created 
his  Convention  People's  Party  (CPP)  in  June  1949. 

Nkrumah  was  born  at  Nkroful  in  the  Nzema  area  and  edu- 
cated in  Catholic  schools  at  Half  Assini  and  Achimota.  He 
received  further  training  in  the  United  States  at  Lincoln  Uni- 
versity and  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  Later,  in  London, 
Nkrumah  became  active  in  the  West  African  Students'  Union 
and  the  Pan-African  Congress.  He  was  one  of  the  few  Africans 
who  participated  in  the  Manchester  Congress  of  1945  of  the 
Pan-Africanist  movement.  During  his  time  in  Britain,  Nkrumah 
came  to  know  such  outspoken  anti-colonialists  and  intellectuals 
as  the  West  Indian  George  Padmore  and  the  African-American 
W.E.B.  Du  Bois.  In  1947,  when  the  UGCC  was  created  in  the 
Gold  Coast  to  oppose  colonial  rule,  Nkrumah  was  invited  from 
London  to  become  the  movement's  general  secretary. 

Nkrumah's  tenure  with  the  UGCC  was  a  stormy  one.  In 
March  1948,  he  was  arrested  and  detained  with  other  leaders  of 
the  UGCC  for  political  activism.  Later,  after  the  other  members 
of  the  UGCC  were  invited  to  make  recommendations  to  the 
Coussey  Committee,  which  was  advising  the  governor  on  the 
path  to  independence,  Nkrumah  broke  with  the  UGCC  and 
founded  the  CPP.  Unlike  the  UGCC,  which  called  for  self-gov- 
ernment "in  the  shortest  possible  time,"  Nkrumah  and  the  CPP 
asked  for  "self-government  now."  The  party  leadership,  made 
up  of  Nkrumah,  Kojo  Botsio,  Komla  A.  Gbedemah,  and  a 
group  of  mostly  young  political  professionals  known  as  the 
"Verandah  Boys,"  identified  itself  more  with  ordinary  working 
people  than  with  the  UGCC  and  its  intelligentsia. 

Nkrumah's  style  and  the  promises  he  made  appealed  directly 
to  the  majority  of  workers,  farmers,  and  youths  who  heard  him; 
he  seemed  to  be  the  national  leader  on  whom  they  could  focus 


27 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


their  hopes.  He  also  won  the  support  of  influential  market 
women,  who,  through  their  domination  of  small-scale  trade, 
served  as  effective  channels  of  communication  at  the  local 
level. 

The  majority  of  the  politicized  population,  stirred  in  the 
postwar  years  by  outspoken  newspapers,  was  separated  from 
both  the  tribal  chiefs  and  the  Anglophile  elite  nearly  as  much 
as  from  the  British  by  economic,  social,  and  educational  fac- 
tors. This  majority  consisted  primarily  of  ex-servicemen,  liter- 
ate persons  who  had  some  primary  schooling,  journalists,  and 
elementary  school  teachers,  all  of  whom  had  developed  a  taste 
for  populist  conceptions  of  democracy.  A  growing  number  of 
uneducated  but  urbanized  industrial  workers  also  formed  part 
of  the  support  group.  Nkrumah  was  able  to  appeal  to  them  on 
their  own  terms.  By  June  1949,  when  the  CPP  was  formed  with 
the  avowed  purpose  of  seeking  immediate  self-governance, 
Nkrumah  had  a  mass  following. 

The  constitution  of  1951  resulted  from  the  report  of  the 
Coussey  Committee,  created  because  of  disturbances  in  Accra 
and  other  cities  in  1948.  In  addition  to  giving  the  Executive 
Council  a  large  majority  of  African  ministers,  it  created  a  Legis- 
lative Assembly,  half  the  elected  members  of  which  were  to 
come  from  the  towns  and  rural  districts  and  half  from  the  tra- 
ditional councils,  including,  for  the  first  time,  the  Northern 
Territories.  Although  it  was  an  enormous  step  forward,  the  new 
constitution  still  fell  far  short  of  the  CPP's  call  for  full 
self-government.  Executive  power  remained  in  British  hands, 
and  the  legislature  was  tailored  to  permit  control  by  tradition- 
alist interests. 

With  increasing  popular  backing,  the  CPP  in  early  1950  initi- 
ated a  campaign  of  "positive  action,"  intended  to  instigate  wide- 
spread strikes  and  nonviolent  resistance.  When  some  violent 
disorders  occurred,  Nkrumah,  along  with  his  principal  lieuten- 
ants, was  promptly  arrested  and  imprisoned  for  sedition.  But 
this  merely  increased  his  prestige  as  leader  and  hero  of  the 
cause  and  gave  him  the  status  of  martyr.  In  February  1951,  the 
first  elections  were  held  for  the  Legislative  Assembly  under  the 
new  constitution.  Nkrumah,  still  in  jail,  won  a  seat,  and  the 
CPP  won  an  impressive  victory  with  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the 
104  seats. 

The  governor,  Sir  Charles  Arden-Clarke,  released  Nkrumah 
and  invited  him  to  form  a  government  as  "leader  of  govern- 
ment business,"  a  position  similar  to  that  of  prime  minister. 


28 


Historical  Setting 


Nkrumah  accepted.  A  major  milestone  had  been  passed  on  the 
road  to  independence  and  self-government.  Nonetheless, 
although  the  CPP  agreed  to  work  within  the  new  constitutional 
order,  the  structure  of  government  that  existed  in  1951  was  cer- 
tainly not  what  the  CPP  preferred.  The  ministries  of  defense, 
external  affairs,  finance,  and  justice  were  still  controlled  by 
British  officials  who  were  not  responsible  to  the  legislature. 
Also,  by  providing  for  a  sizable  representation  of  traditional 
tribal  chiefs  in  the  Legislative  Assembly,  the  constitution  accen- 
tuated the  cleavage  between  the  modern  political  leaders  and 
the  traditional  authorities  of  the  councils  of  chiefs. 

The  start  of  Nkrumah's  first  term  as  "leader  of  government 
business"  was  marked  by  cordiality  and  cooperation  with  the 
British  governor.  During  the  next  few  years,  the  government 
was  gradually  transformed  into  a  full  parliamentary  system. 
The  changes  were  opposed  by  the  more  traditionalist  African 
elements,  particularly  in  Asante  and  the  Northern  Territories. 
This  opposition,  however,  proved  ineffective  in  the  face  of  con- 
tinuing and  growing  popular  support  for  a  single  overriding 
concept — independence  at  an  early  date. 

In  1952  the  position  of  prime  minister  was  created  and  the 
Executive  Council  became  the  cabinet.  The  prime  minister  was 
made  responsible  to  the  Legislative  Assembly,  which  duly 
elected  Nkrumah  prime  minister.  The  constitution  of  1954 
ended  the  election  of  assembly  members  by  the  tribal  councils. 
The  Legislative  Assembly  increased  in  size,  and  all  members 
were  chosen  by  direct  election  from  equal,  single-member  con- 
stituencies. Only  defense  and  foreign  policy  remained  in  the 
hands  of  the  governor;  the  elected  assembly  was  given  control 
of  virtually  all  internal  affairs  of  the  colony. 

The  CPP  pursued  a  policy  of  political  centralization,  which 
encountered  serious  opposition.  Shortly  after  the  1954  elec- 
tion, a  new  party,  the  Asante-based  National  Liberation  Move- 
ment (NLM),  was  formed.  The  NLM  advocated  a  federal  form 
of  government,  with  increased  powers  for  the  various  regions. 
NLM  leaders  criticized  the  CPP  for  perceived  dictatorial  ten- 
dencies. The  new  party  worked  in  cooperation  with  another 
regionalist  group,  the  Northern  People's  Party.  When  these  two 
regional  parties  walked  out  of  discussions  on  a  new  constitu- 
tion, the  CPP  feared  that  London  might  consider  such  disunity 
an  indication  that  the  colony  was  not  yet  ready  for  the  next 
phase  of  self-government. 


29 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

The  British  constitutional  adviser,  however,  backed  the  CPP 
position.  The  governor  dissolved  the  Legislative  Assembly  in 
order  to  test  popular  support  for  the  CPP  demand  for  immedi- 
ate independence.  The  crown  agreed  to  grant  independence  if 
so  requested  by  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  new  legislature. 
New  elections  were  held  in  July  1956.  In  keenly  contested  elec- 
tions, the  CPP  won  57  percent  of  the  votes  cast,  but  the  frag- 
mentation of  the  opposition  gave  the  CPP  every  seat  in  the 
south  as  well  as  enough  seats  in  Asante,  the  Northern  Territo- 
ries, and  the  Trans-Volta  Region  to  hold  a  two-thirds  majority  of 
the  104  seats. 

Prior  to  the  July  1956  general  elections  in  the  Gold  Coast,  a 
plebiscite  was  conducted  under  United  Nations  (UN)  auspices 
to  decide  the  future  disposition  of  British  Togoland  and 
French  Togoland.  The  British  trusteeship,  the  western  portion 
of  the  former  German  colony,  had  been  linked  to  the  Gold 
Coast  since  1919  and  was  represented  in  its  parliament.  The 
dominant  ethnic  group,  the  Ewe,  were  divided  between  the 
Gold  Coast  proper  and  the  two  Togos.  A  clear  majority  of  Brit- 
ish Togoland  inhabitants  voted  in  favor  of  union  with  their 
western  neighbors,  and  the  area  was  absorbed  into  the  Gold 
Coast.  There  was,  however,  vocal  opposition  to  the  incorpora- 
tion from  some  of  the  Ewe  in  southern  British  Togoland. 

Independent  Ghana 

On  August  3,  1956,  the  newly  elected  Legislative  Assembly 
passed  a  motion  authorizing  the  government  to  request  inde- 
pendence within  the  British  Commonwealth.  The  opposition 
did  not  attend  the  debate,  and  the  vote  was  unanimous.  The 
British  government  accepted  this  motion  as  clearly  represent- 
ing a  reasonable  majority.  On  March  6,  1957,  the  113th  anni- 
versary of  the  Bond  of  1844,  the  former  British  colony  of  the 
Gold  Coast  became  the  independent  state  of  Ghana.  The 
nation's  Legislative  Assembly  became  the  National  Assembly, 
and  Nkrumah  continued  as  prime  minister.  According  to  an 
independence  constitution  also  drafted  in  1957,  Queen  Eliza- 
beth II  was  to  be  represented  in  the  former  colony  by  a  gover- 
nor general,  and  Sir  Arden-Clarke  was  appointed  to  that 
position.  This  special  relationship  between  the  British  Crown 
and  Ghana  would  continue  until  1960,  when  the  position  of 
governor  general  was  abolished  under  terms  of  a  new  constitu- 
tion that  declared  the  nation  a  republic. 


30 


Ghana's  monument  to  independence,  Black  Star  Square,  Accra 

Courtesy  James  Sanders 


31 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

The  independence  constitution  of  1957  provided  protection 
against  easy  amendment  of  a  number  of  its  clauses.  It  also 
granted  a  voice  to  chiefs  and  their  tribal  councils  by  providing 
for  the  creation  of  regional  assemblies.  No  bill  amending  the 
entrenched  clauses  of  the  constitution  or  affecting  the  powers 
of  the  regional  bodies  or  the  privileges  of  the  chiefs  could 
become  law  except  by  a  two-thirds  vote  of  the  National  Assem- 
bly and  by  simple  majority  approval  in  two-thirds  of  the 
regional  assemblies.  When  local  CPP  supporters  gained  control 
of  enough  regional  assemblies,  however,  the  Nkrumah  govern- 
ment promptly  secured  passage  of  an  act  removing  the  special 
entrenchment  protection  clause  in  the  constitution,  a  step  that 
left  the  National  Assembly  with  the  power  to  effect  any  consti- 
tutional change  the  CPP  deemed  necessary. 

Among  the  CPP's  earliest  acts  was  the  outright  abolition  of 
regional  assemblies.  Another  was  the  dilution  of  the  clauses 
designed  to  ensure  a  nonpolitical  and  competitive  civil  service. 
This  action  allowed  Nkrumah  to  appoint  his  followers  to  posi- 
tions throughout  the  upper  ranks  of  public  employment. 
Thereafter,  unfettered  by  constitutional  restrictions  and  with 
an  obedient  party  majority  in  the  assembly,  Nkrumah  began  his 
administration  of  the  first  independent  African  country  south 
of  the  Sahara. 

Nkrumah,  Ghana,  and  Africa 

Nkrumah  has  been  described  by  author  Peter  Omari  as  a 
dictator  who  "made  much  of  elections,  when  he  was  aware  that 
they  were  not  really  free  but  rigged  in  his  favor."  According  to 
Omari,  the  CPP  administration  of  Ghana  was  one  that  manipu- 
lated the  constitutional  and  electoral  processes  of  democracy 
to  justify  Nkrumah's  agenda.  The  extent  to  which  the  govern- 
ment would  pursue  that  agenda  constitutionally  was  demon- 
strated early  in  the  administration's  life  when  it  succeeded  in 
passing  the  Deportation  Act  of  1957,  the  same  year  that  ethnic, 
religious,  and  regional  parties  were  banned.  The  Deportation 
Act  empowered  the  governor  general  and,  therefore,  subse- 
quent heads  of  state,  to  expel  persons  whose  presence  in  the 
country  was  deemed  not  in  the  interest  of  the  public  good. 
Although  the  act  was  to  be  applied  only  to  non-Ghanaians,  sev- 
eral people  to  whom  it  was  later  applied  claimed  to  be  citizens. 

The  Preventive  Detention  Act,  passed  in  1958,  gave  power  to 
the  prime  minister  to  detain  certain  persons  for  up  to  five  years 
without  trial.  Amended  in  1959  and  again  in  1962,  the  act  was 


32 


Historical  Setting 


seen  by  opponents  of  the  CPP  government  as  a  flagrant  restric- 
tion of  individual  freedom  and  human  rights.  Once  it  had  been 
granted  these  legal  powers,  the  CPP  administration  managed 
to  silence  its  opponents.  J. B.  Danquah,  a  leading  member  of 
the  UGCC,  was  detained  until  he  died  in  prison  in  1965.  Kofi 
Abrefa  Busia,  leader  of  the  opposition  United  Party  (UP), 
formed  by  the  NLM  and  other  parties  in  response  to  Nkru- 
mah's  outlawing  of  so-called  separatist  parties  in  1957,  went 
into  exile  in  London  to  escape  detention,  while  other  UP  mem- 
bers still  in  the  country  joined  the  ruling  party. 

On  July  1,  1960,  Ghana  became  a  republic,  and  Nkrumah 
won  the  presidential  election  that  year.  Shortly  thereafter, 
Nkrumah  was  proclaimed  president  for  life,  and  the  CPP 
became  the  sole  party  of  the  state.  Using  the  powers  granted 
him  by  the  party  and  the  constitution,  Nkrumah  by  1961  had 
detained  an  estimated  400  to  2,000  of  his  opponents.  Nkru- 
mah's  critics  pointed  to  the  rigid  hold  of  the  CPP  over  the 
nation's  political  system  and  to  numerous  cases  of  human 
rights  abuses.  Others,  however,  defended  Nkrumah's  agenda 
and  policies. 

Nkrumah  discussed  his  political  views  in  his  numerous  writ- 
ings, especially  in  Africa  Must  Unite  (1963)  and  in  Neo-Colonial- 
ism  (1965).  These  writings  show  the  impact  of  his  stay  in  Britain 
in  the  mid-1940s.  The  Pan-Africanist  movement,  which  had 
held  one  of  its  annual  conferences,  attended  by  Nkrumah,  at 
Manchester  in  1945,  was  influenced  by  socialist  ideologies.  The 
movement  sought  unity  among  people  of  African  descent  and 
also  improvement  in  the  lives  of  workers,  who,  it  was  alleged, 
had  been  exploited  by  capitalist  enterprises  in  Africa.  Western 
countries  with  colonial  histories  were  identified  as  the  exploit- 
ers. According  to  the  socialists,  "oppressed"  people  ought  to 
identify  with  the  socialist  countries  and  organizations  that  best 
represented  their  interests;  however,  all  the  dominant  world 
powers  in  the  immediate  post-1945  period,  except  the  Soviet 
Union  and  the  United  States,  had  colonial  ties  with  Africa. 
Nkrumah  asserted  that  even  the  United  States,  which  had 
never  colonized  any  part  of  Africa,  was  in  an  advantageous  posi- 
tion to  exploit  independent  Africa  unless  preventive  efforts 
were  taken. 

According  to  Nkrumah,  his  government,  which  represented 
the  first  black  African  nation  to  win  independence,  had  an 
important  role  to  play  in  the  struggle  against  capitalist  interests 
on  the  continent.  As  he  put  it,  "The  independence  of  Ghana 


33 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

would  be  meaningless  unless  it  was  tied  to  the  total  liberation 
of  Africa."  It  was  important,  then,  he  said,  for  Ghanaians  to 
"seek  first  the  political  kingdom."  Economic  benefits  associated 
with  independence  were  to  be  enjoyed  later,  proponents  of 
Nkrumah's  position  argued.  But  Nkrumah  needed  strategies  to 
pursue  his  goals. 

On  the  domestic  front,  Nkrumah  believed  that  rapid  mod- 
ernization of  industries  and  communications  was  necessary 
and  that  it  could  be  achieved  if  the  workforce  were  completely 
Africanized  and  educated.  Even  more  important,  however, 
Nkrumah  believed  that  this  domestic  goal  could  be  achieved 
faster  if  it  were  not  hindered  by  reactionary  politicians — elites 
in  the  opposition  parties  and  traditional  chiefs — who  might 
compromise  with  Western  imperialists.  From  such  an  ideologi- 
cal position,  Nkrumah's  supporters  justified  the  Deportation 
Act  of  1957;  the  Detention  Acts  of  1958,  1959,  and  1962;  parlia- 
mentary intimidation  of  CPP  opponents;  the  appointment  of 
Nkrumah  as  president  for  life;  the  recognition  of  his  party  as 
the  sole  political  organization  of  the  state;  the  creation  of  the 
Young  Pioneer  Movement  for  the  ideological  education  of  the 
nation's  youth;  and  the  party's  control  of  the  civil  service.  Gov- 
ernment expenditures  on  road  building  projects,  mass  educa- 
tion of  adults  and  children,  and  health  services,  as  well  as  the 
construction  of  the  Akosombo  Dam,  were  all  important  if 
Ghana  were  to  play  its  leading  role  in  Africa's  liberation  from 
colonial  and  neo-colonial  domination. 

On  the  continental  level,  Nkrumah  sought  to  unite  Africa  so 
it  could  defend  its  international  economic  interests  and  stand 
up  against  the  political  pressures  from  East  and  West  that  were 
a  result  of  the  Cold  War.  His  dream  for  Africa  was  a  continua- 
tion of  the  Pan-Africanist  dream  as  expressed  at  the  Manches- 
ter conference.  The  initial  strategy  was  to  encourage 
revolutionary  political  movements  in  Africa,  beginning  with  a 
Ghana,  Guinea,  and  Mali  union,  that  would  serve  as  the  psy- 
chological and  political  impetus  for  the  formation  of  a  United 
States  of  Africa.  Thus,  when  Nkrumah  was  criticized  for  paying 
little  attention  to  Ghana  or  for  wasting  national  resources  in 
supporting  external  programs,  he  reversed  the  argument  and 
accused  his  opponents  of  being  short-sighted. 

But  the  heavy  financial  burdens  created  by  Nkrumah's  devel- 
opment policies  and  Pan-Africanist  adventures  created  new 
sources  of  opposition.  With  the  presentation  in  July  1961  of  the 
country's  first  austerity  budget,  Ghana's  workers  and  farmers 


34 


Historical  Setting 


became  aware  of  and  critical  of  the  cost  to  them  of  Nkrumah's 
programs.  Their  reaction  set  the  model  for  the  protests  over 
taxes  and  benefits  that  were  to  dominate  Ghanaian  political  cri- 
ses for  the  next  thirty  years. 

CPP  backbenchers  and  UP  representatives  in  the  National 
Assembly  sharply  criticized  the  government's  demand  for 
increased  taxes  and,  particularly,  for  a  forced  savings  program. 
Urban  workers  began  a  protest  strike,  the  most  serious  of  a 
number  of  public  outcries  against  government  measures  dur- 
ing 1961.  Nkrumah's  public  demands  for  an  end  to  corruption 
in  the  government  and  the  party  further  undermined  popular 
faith  in  the  national  government.  A  drop  in  the  price  paid  to 
cocoa  farmers  by  the  government  marketing  board  aroused 
resentment  among  a  segment  of  the  population  that  had 
always  been  Nkrumah's  major  opponent. 

The  Growth  of  Opposition  to  Nkrumah 

Nkrumah's  complete  domination  of  political  power  had 
served  to  isolate  lesser  leaders,  leaving  each  a  real  or  imagined 
challenger  to  the  ruler.  After  opposition  parties  were  crushed, 
opponents  came  only  from  within  the  CPP  hierarchy.  Among 
its  members  was  Tawia  Adamafio,  an  Accra  politician.  Nkru- 
mah had  made  him  general  secretary  of  the  CPP  for  a  brief 
time.  Later,  Adamafio  was  appointed  minister  of  state  for  presi- 
dential affairs,  the  most  important  post  in  the  president's  staff 
at  Flagstaff  House,  which  gradually  became  the  center  for  all 
decision  making  and  much  of  the  real  administrative  machin- 
ery for  both  the  CPP  and  the  government.  The  other  leader 
with  an  apparently  autonomous  base  was  John  Tettegah,  leader 
of  the  Trade  Union  Congress.  Neither,  however,  proved  to  have 
any  power  other  than  that  granted  to  them  by  the  president. 

By  1961,  however,  the  young  and  more  radical  members  of 
the  CPP  leadership,  led  by  Adamafio,  had  gained  ascendancy 
over  the  original  CPP  leaders  like  Gbedemah.  After  a  bomb 
attempt  on  Nkrumah's  life  in  August  1962,  Adamafio,  Ako 
Adjei  (then  minister  of  foreign  affairs),  and  Cofie  Crabbe  (all 
members  of  the  CPP)  were  jailed  under  the  Preventive  Deten- 
tion Act.  The  CPP  newspapers  charged  them  with  complicity  in 
the  assassination  attempt,  offering  as  evidence  only  the  fact 
that  they  had  all  chosen  to  ride  in  cars  far  behind  the  presi- 
dent's when  the  bomb  was  thrown. 

For  more  than  a  year,  the  trial  of  the  alleged  plotters  of  the 
1962  assassination  attempt  occupied  center  stage.  The  accused 


35 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


were  brought  to  trial  before  the  three-judge  court  for  state 
security,  headed  by  the  chief  justice,  Sir  Arku  Korsah.  When  the 
court  acquitted  the  accused,  Nkrumah  used  his  constitutional 
prerogative  to  dismiss  Korsah.  Nkrumah  then  obtained  a  vote 
from  the  parliament  that  allowed  retrial  of  Adamafio  and  his 
associates.  A  new  court,  with  a  jury  chosen  by  Nkrumah,  found 
all  the  accused  guilty  and  sentenced  them  to  death.  These  sen- 
tences, however,  were  commuted  to  twenty  years'  imprison- 
ment. 

In  early  1964,  in  order  to  prevent  future  challenges  from  the 
judiciary,  Nkrumah  obtained  a  constitutional  amendment 
allowing  him  to  dismiss  any  judge.  At  the  same  time,  Ghana 
officially  became  a  single-party  state,  and  an  act  of  parliament 
ensured  that  there  would  be  only  one  candidate  for  president. 
Other  parties  having  already  been  outlawed,  no  non-CPP  can- 
didates came  forward  to  challenge  the  party  slate  in  the  gen- 
eral elections  announced  for  June  1965.  Nkrumah  had  been 
re-elected  president  of  the  country  for  less  than  a  year  when 
members  of  the  National  Liberation  Council  (NLC)  overthrew 
the  CPP  government  in  a  military  coup  on  February  24,  1966. 
At  the  time,  Nkrumah  was  in  China.  He  took  up  asylum  in 
Guinea,  where  he  remained  until  he  died  in  1972. 

The  Fall  of  the  Nkrumah  Regime  and  Its  Aftermath 

Leaders  of  the  1966  military  coup,  including  army  officers 
Colonel  E.K.  Kotcka,  Major  A.A.  Afrifa,  Lieutenant  General 
(retired)  J. A.  Ankra,  and  Police  Inspector  General  J.W.K.  Hart- 
ley, justified  their  takeover  by  charging  that  the  CPP  adminis- 
tration was  abusive  and  corrupt.  They  were  equally  disturbed 
by  Nkrumah's  aggressive  involvement  in  African  politics  and  by 
his  belief  that  Ghanaian  troops  could  be  sent  anywhere  in 
Africa  to  fight  so-called  liberation  wars,  even  though  they  never 
did  so.  Above  all,  they  pointed  to  the  absence  of  democratic 
practices  in  the  nation — a  situation  they  claimed  had  affected 
the  morale  of  the  armed  forces.  According  to  Kotoka,  the  mili- 
tary coup  of  1966  was  a  nationalist  one  because  it  liberated  the 
nation  from  Nkrumah's  dictatorship — a  declaration  that  was 
supported  by  Alex  Quaison-Sackey,  Nkrumah's  former  minister 
of  foreign  affairs. 

Despite  the  vast  political  changes  brought  about  by  the  over- 
throw of  Nkrumah,  many  problems  remained.  For  example, 
the  underlying  ethnic  and  regional  divisions  within  society  had 
to  be  addressed.  The  apparent  spirit  of  national  unity  that 


36 


Historical  Setting 


seemed  to  have  developed  during  the  Nkrumah  years  turned 
out  to  have  resulted  in  part  from  his  coercive  powers  as  well  as 
from  his  charisma.  As  a  consequence,  successive  new  leaders 
faced  the  problem  of  forging  disparate  personal,  ethnic,  and 
sectional  interests  into  a  real  Ghanaian  nation.  The  economic 
burdens,  aggravated  by  what  some  described  as  past  extrava- 
gance, would  cripple  each  future  government's  ability  to  foster 
the  rapid  development  needed  to  satisfy  even  minimal  popular 
demands  for  a  better  life.  The  fear  of  a  resurgence  of  an  overly 
strong  central  authority  would  continue  to  dominate  the  con- 
stitutional agenda  and  to  pervade  the  thinking  of  many  edu- 
cated, politically  minded  Ghanaians.  Others,  however,  felt  that 
a  strong  government  was  essential. 

A  considerable  portion  of  the  population  had  become  con- 
vinced that  effective,  honest  government  was  incompatible 
with  competitive  political  parties.  Many  Ghanaians  remained 
committed  to  nonpolitical  leadership  for  the  nation,  even  in 
the  form  of  military  rule.  The  problems  of  the  Busia  adminis- 
tration, the  country's  first  elected  government  after  Nkrumah's 
fall,  illustrated  the  problems  Ghana  would  continue  to  face. 

The  National  Liberation  Council  and  the  Busia  Years,  1966-71 

The  leaders  of  the  coup  that  overthrew  Nkrumah  immedi- 
ately opened  the  country's  borders  and  its  prison  gates  to  allow 
the  return  from  exile  or  release  from  preventive  detention  of 
all  opponents  of  Nkrumah.  The  National  Liberation  Council 
(NLC),  composed  of  four  army  officers  and  four  police  offic- 
ers, assumed  executive  power.  It  appointed  a  cabinet  of  civil 
servants  and  promised  to  restore  democratic  government  as 
quickly  as  possible.  The  ban  on  the  formation  of  political  par- 
ties remained  in  force  until  late  1968,  but  activity  by  individual 
figures  began  much  earlier  with  the  appointment  of  a  succes- 
sion of  committees  composed  of  civil  servants  and  politicians  as 
the  first  step  in  the  return  to  civilian  and  representative  rule. 

These  moves  culminated  in  the  appointment  of  a  represen- 
tative assembly  to  draft  a  constitution  for  the  Second  Republic 
of  Ghana.  Political  party  activity  was  allowed  to  commence  with 
the  opening  of  the  assembly.  By  election  time  in  August  1969, 
the  first  competitive  nationwide  political  contest  since  1956, 
five  parties  had  been  organized. 

The  major  contenders  were  the  Progress  Party  (PP),  headed 
by  Kofi  A.  Busia,  and  the  National  Alliance  of  Liberals  (NAL), 
led  by  Komla  A.  Gbedemah.  Critics  associated  these  two  lead- 


37 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


ing  parties  with  the  political  divisions  of  the  early  Nkrumah 
years.  The  PP  found  much  of  its  support  among  the  old  oppo- 
nents of  Nkrumah's  CPP — the  educated  middle  class  and  tradi- 
tionalists of  Ashanti  Region  and  the  North.  This  link  was 
strengthened  by  the  fact  that  Busia  had  headed  the  NLM  and 
its  successor,  the  UP,  before  fleeing  the  country  to  oppose 
Nkrumah  from  exile.  Similarly,  the  NAL  was  seen  as  the  succes- 
sor of  the  CPP's  right  wing,  which  Gbedemah  had  headed  until 
he  was  ousted  by  Nkrumah  in  1961. 

The  elections  demonstrated  an  interesting  voting  pattern. 
For  example,  the  PP  carried  all  the  seats  among  the  Asante  and 
the  Brong.  All  seats  in  the  northern  regions  of  the  country 
were  closely  contested.  In  the  Volta  Region,  the  PP  won  some 
Ewe  seats,  while  the  NAL  won  all  seats  in  the  non-Ewe  northern 
section.  Overall,  the  PP  gained  59  percent  of  the  popular  vote 
and  74  percent  of  the  seats  in  the  National  Assembly.  The  PP's 
victories  demonstrated  some  support  among  nearly  all  ethnic 
groups.  An  estimated  60  percent  of  the  electorate  voted. 

Immediately  after  the  elections,  Gbedemah  was  barred  from 
taking  his  seat  in  the  National  Assembly  by  a  Supreme  Court 
decision  involving  those  CPP  members  who  had  been  accused 
of  financial  crimes.  Gbedemah  retired  permanently  from  active 
participation  in  politics.  The  NAL,  left  without  a  strong  leader, 
controlled  thirty  seats;  in  October  1970,  it  absorbed  the  mem- 
bers of  three  other  minor  parties  in  the  assembly  to  form  the 
Justice  Party  (JP)  under  the  leadership  of  Joseph  Appiah.  The 
JP's  combined  strength  constituted  what  amounted  to  a  south- 
ern bloc  with  a  solid  constituency  among  most  of  the  Ewe  and 
the  peoples  of  the  coastal  cities. 

Busia,  the  PP  leader  in  both  parliament  and  the  nation, 
became  prime  minister  when  the  National  Assembly  met  in 
September.  An  interim  three-member  presidential  commis- 
sion, composed  of  Major  Afrifa,  Police  Inspector  General  Harl- 
ley  of  the  NLC,  and  the  chief  of  the  defense  staff,  Major 
General  A.K.  Ocran,  served  in  place  of  an  elected  president  for 
the  first  year  and  a  half  of  civilian  rule.  The  commission  dis- 
solved itself  in  August  1970.  Before  stepping  down,  Afrifa  criti- 
cized the  constitution,  particularly  provisions  that  served  more 
as  a  bar  to  the  rise  of  a  dictator  than  as  a  blueprint  for  an  effec- 
tive, decisive  government.  The  electoral  college  chose  as  presi- 
dent Chief  Justice  Edward  Akufo  Addo,  one  of  the  leading 
nationalist  politicians  of  the  UGCC  era  and  one  of  the  judges 
dismissed  by  Nkrumah  in  1964. 


38 


Historical  Setting 


All  attention,  however,  remained  focused  on  Prime  Minister 
Busia  and  his  government.  Much  was  expected  of  the  Busia 
administration  because  its  parliamentarians  were  considered 
intellectuals  and,  therefore,  more  perceptive  in  their  evalua- 
tions of  what  needed  to  be  done.  Many  Ghanaians  hoped  that 
their  decisions  would  be  in  the  general  interest  of  the  nation, 
as  compared  with  those  made  by  the  Nkrumah  administration, 
which  were  judged  to  satisfy  narrow  party  interests  and  Nkru- 
mah's  personal  agenda.  The  NLC  had  given  assurances  that 
there  would  be  more  democracy,  more  political  maturity,  and 
more  freedom  in  Ghana  because  the  politicians  allowed  to  run 
in  the  1969  elections  were  proponents  of  Western  democracy. 
In  fact,  these  were  the  same  individuals  who  had  suffered 
under  the  old  regime  and  were,  therefore,  thought  to  under- 
stand the  benefits  of  democracy. 

Two  early  measures  initiated  by  the  Busia  government  were 
the  expulsion  of  large  numbers  of  noncitizens  from  the  coun- 
try and  a  companion  measure  to  limit  foreign  involvement  in 
small  businesses.  The  moves  were  aimed  at  relieving  the  unem- 
ployment created  by  the  country's  precarious  economic  situa- 
tion (see  Historical  Background,  ch.  3).  The  policies  were 
popular  because  they  forced  out  of  the  retail  sector  of  the 
economy  those  foreigners,  especially  Lebanese,  Asians,  and 
Nigerians,  who  were  perceived  as  unfairly  monopolizing  trade 
to  the  disadvantage  of  Ghanaians.  Many  other  Busia  moves, 
however,  were  not  popular.  Busia's  decision  to  introduce  a  loan 
program  for  university  students,  who  had  hitherto  received 
free  education,  was  challenged  because  it  was  interpreted  as 
introducing  a  class  system  into  the  country's  highest  institu- 
tions of  learning.  Some  observers  even  saw  Busia's  devaluation 
of  the  national  currency  and  his  encouragement  of  foreign 
investment  in  the  industrial  sector  of  the  economy  as  conserva- 
tive ideas  that  could  undermine  Ghana's  sovereignty. 

The  opposition  JP's  basic  policies  did  not  differ  significantly 
from  those  of  the  Busia  administration.  Still,  the  party 
attempted  to  stress  the  importance  of  the  central  government 
rather  than  that  of  limited  private  enterprise  in  economic 
development,  and  it  continued  to  emphasize  programs  of  pri- 
mary interest  to  the  urban  work  force.  The  ruling  PP  empha- 
sized the  need  for  development  in  rural  areas,  both  to  slow  the 
movement  of  population  to  the  cities  and  to  redress  regional 
imbalance  in  levels  of  development.  The  JP  and  a  growing 
number  of  PP  members  favored  suspension  of  payment  on 


39 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

some  foreign  debts  of  the  Nkrumah  era.  This  attitude  grew 
more  popular  as  debt  payments  became  more  difficult  to  meet. 
Both  parties  favored  the  creation  of  a  West  African  economic 
community  or  an  economic  union  with  neighboring  West  Afri- 
can states. 

Despite  broad  popular  support  garnered  at  its  inception  and 
strong  foreign  connections,  the  Busia  government  fell  victim  to 
an  army  coup  within  twenty-seven  months.  Neither  ethnic  nor 
class  differences  played  a  role  in  the  overthrow  of  the  PP  gov- 
ernment. The  crucial  causes  were  the  country's  continuing 
economic  difficulties,  both  those  stemming  from  the  high  for- 
eign debts  incurred  by  Nkrumah  and  those  resulting  from 
internal  problems.  The  PP  government  had  inherited  US$580 
million  in  medium-  and  long-term  debts,  an  amount  equal  to 
25  percent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary) 
of  1969.  By  1971  the  US$580  million  had  been  further  inflated 
by  US$72  million  in  accrued  interest  payments  and  US$296 
million  in  short-term  commercial  credits.  Within  the  country, 
an  even  larger  internal  debt  fueled  inflation. 

Ghana's  economy  remained  largely  dependent  upon  the 
often  difficult  cultivation  of  and  market  for  cocoa.  Cocoa 
prices  had  always  been  volatile,  but  exports  of  this  tropical  crop 
normally  provided  about  half  of  the  country's  foreign  currency 
earnings.  Beginning  in  the  1960s,  however,  a  number  of  factors 
combined  to  limit  severely  this  vital  source  of  national  income. 
These  factors  included  foreign  competition  (particularly  from 
neighboring  Cote  dTvoire),  a  lack  of  understanding  of  free- 
market  forces  (by  the  government  in  setting  prices  paid  to 
farmers),  accusations  of  bureaucratic  incompetence  in  the 
Cocoa  Marketing  Board,  and  the  smuggling  of  crops  into  Cote 
d'lvoire.  As  a  result,  Ghana's  income  from  cocoa  exports  con- 
tinued to  fall  dramatically. 

Austerity  measures  imposed  by  the  Busia  administration, 
although  wise  in  the  long  run,  alienated  influential  farmers, 
who  until  then  had  been  PP  supporters.  These  measures  were 
part  of  Busia's  economic  structural  adjustment  efforts  to  put 
the  country  on  a  sounder  financial  base.  The  austerity  pro- 
grams had  been  recommended  by  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary).  The  recovery  measures  also 
severely  affected  the  middle  class  and  the  salaried  work  force, 
both  of  which  faced  wage  freezes,  tax  increases,  currency  deval- 
uations, and  rising  import  prices.  These  measures  precipitated 
protests  from  the  Trade  Union  Congress.  In  response,  the  gov- 


40 


Colonel  Ignatius  Kutu 
Acheampong,  head  of  state  and 
chairman  of  the  National 
Redemption  Council  and 
Supreme  Military  Council, 
1972-78 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana, 
Washington 

ernment  sent  the  army  to  occupy  the  trade  union  headquarters 
and  to  block  strike  actions — a  situation  that  some  perceived  as 
negating  the  government's  claim  to  be  operating  democrati- 
cally. 

The  army  troops  and  officers  upon  whom  Busia  relied  for 
support  were  themselves  affected,  both  in  their  personal  lives 
and  in  the  tightening  of  the  defense  budget,  by  these  same  aus- 
terity measures.  As  the  leader  of  the  anti-Busia  coup  declared 
on  January  13,  1972,  even  those  amenities  enjoyed  by  the  army 
during  the  Nkrumah  regime  were  no  longer  available.  Know- 
ing that  austerity  had  alienated  the  officers,  the  Busia  govern- 
ment began  to  change  the  leadership  of  the  army's  combat 
elements.  This,  however,  was  the  last  straw.  Lieutenant  Colonel 
Ignatius  Kutu  Acheampong,  temporarily  commanding  the  First 


Kwame  Nkrumah,  prime 
minister  and  president, 
1957-66 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana, 
Washington 


41 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Brigade  around  Accra,  led  a  bloodless  coup  that  ended  the  Sec- 
ond Republic. 

The  National  Redemption  Council  Years,  1972-79 

Despite  its  short  existence,  the  Second  Republic  was  signifi- 
cant in  that  the  development  problems  the  nation  faced  came 
clearly  into  focus.  These  included  uneven  distribution  of 
investment  funds  and  favoritism  toward  certain  groups  and 
regions.  Furthermore,  important  questions  about  developmen- 
tal priorities  emerged.  For  example,  was  rural  development 
more  important  than  the  needs  of  the  urban  population?  Or, 
to  what  extent  was  the  government  to  incur  the  cost  of  univer- 
sity education?  And  more  important,  was  the  public  to  be 
drawn  into  the  debate  about  the  nation's  future?  The  impact  of 
the  fall  of  Ghana's  Second  Republic  cast  a  shadow  across  the 
nation's  political  future  because  no  clear  answers  to  these  prob- 
lems emerged. 

According  to  one  writer,  the  overthrow  of  the  PP  govern- 
ment revealed  that  Ghana  was  no  longer  the  pace-setter  in 
Africa's  search  for  workable  political  institutions.  Both  the  radi- 
cal left  and  the  conservative  right  had  failed.  In  opposing 
Nkrumah's  one-party  state,  Busia  allegedly  argued  that  socialist 
rule  in  Ghana  had  led  to  unemployment  and  poverty  for  many 
while  party  officials  grew  richer  at  the  expense  of  the  masses. 
But  in  justifying  the  one-party  state,  Nkrumah  pointed  to  the 
weaknesses  of  multiparty  parliamentary  democracy,  a  system 
that  delayed  decision-making  processes  and,  therefore,  the 
ability  to  take  action  to  foster  development.  The  fall  of  both  the 
Nkrumah  and  the  Busia  regimes  seemed  to  have  confused 
many  with  regard  to  the  political  direction  the  nation  needed 
to  take.  In  other  words,  in  the  first  few  years  after  the  Nkrumah 
administration,  Ghanaians  were  unable  to  arrive  at  a  consensus 
on  the  type  of  government  suited  to  address  their  national 
problems. 

It  was  this  situation — the  inability  of  the  PP  government  to 
satisfy  diverse  interest  groups — that  ostensibly  gave  Acheam- 
pong  an  excuse  for  the  January  13  takeover.  Acheampong's 
National  Redemption  Council  (NRC)  claimed  that  it  had  to  act 
to  remove  the  ill  effects  of  the  currency  devaluation  of  the  pre- 
vious government  and  thereby,  at  least  in  the  short  run,  to 
improve  living  conditions  for  individual  Ghanaians.  Under  the 
circumstances,  the  NRC  was  compelled  to  take  immediate  mea- 
sures. Although  committed  to  the  reversal  of  the  fiscal  policies 


42 


Historical  Setting 


of  the  PP  government,  the  NRC,  by  comparison,  adopted  poli- 
cies that  appeared  painless  and,  therefore,  popular.  But  unlike 
the  coup  leaders  of  the  NLC,  members  of  the  NRC  did  not  out- 
line any  plan  for  the  return  of  the  nation  to  democratic  rule. 
Some  observers  accused  the  NRC  of  acting  simply  to  rectify 
their  own  grievances. 

To  justify  their  takeover,  coup  leaders  leveled  charges  of  cor- 
ruption against  Busia  and  his  ministers.  In  its  first  years,  the 
NRC  drew  support  from  a  public  pleased  by  the  reversal  of 
Busia's  austerity  measures.  The  Ghanaian  currency  was  reval- 
ued upward,  and  two  moves  were  announced  to  lessen  the  bur- 
den of  existing  foreign  debts:  the  repudiation  of  US$90  million 
of  Nkrumah's  debts  to  British  companies,  and  the  unilateral 
rescheduling  of  the  rest  of  the  country's  debts  for  payment 
over  fifty  years.  Later,  the  NRC  nationalized  all  large  foreign- 
owned  companies.  But  these  measures,  while  instantly  popular 
in  the  streets,  did  nothing  to  solve  the  country's  real  problems. 
If  anything,  they  aggravated  the  problem  of  capital  flow. 

Unlike  the  NLC  of  1966,  the  NRC  sought  to  create  a  truly 
military  government;  hence,  in  October  1975,  the  ruling  coun- 
cil was  reorganized  into  the  Supreme  Military  Council  (SMC), 
and  its  membership  was  restricted  to  a  few  senior  military  offic- 
ers. The  intent  was  to  consolidate  the  military's  hold  over  gov- 
ernment  administration  and  to  address  occasional 
disagreements,  conflicts,  and  suspicions  within  the  armed 
forces,  which  by  now  had  emerged  as  the  constituency  of  the 
military  government.  Little  input  from  the  civilian  sector  was 
allowed,  and  no  offers  were  made  to  return  any  part  of  the  gov- 
ernment to  civilian  control  during  the  SMC's  first  five  years  in 
power.  SMC  members  believed  that  the  country's  problems 
were  caused  by  a  lack  of  organization,  which  could  be  reme- 
died by  applying  military  organization  and  thinking.  This  was 
the  extent  of  the  SMC  philosophy.  Officers  were  put  in  charge 
of  all  ministries  and  state  enterprises;  junior  officers  and  ser- 
geants were  assigned  leadership  roles  down  to  the  local  level  in 
every  government  department  and  parastatal  organization. 

During  the  NRC's  early  years,  these  administrative  changes 
led  many  Ghanaians  to  hope  that  the  soldiers  in  command 
would  improve  the  efficiency  of  the  country's  bloated  bureau- 
cracies. Acheampong's  popularity  continued  into  1974  as  the 
government  successfully  negotiated  international  loan  agree- 
ments and  rescheduled  Ghana's  debts.  The  government  also 
provided  price  supports  for  basic  food  imports,  while  seeking 


43 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

to  encourage  Ghanaians  to  become  self-reliant  in  agriculture 
and  in  the  production  of  raw  materials.  In  the  Operation  Feed 
Yourself  program,  all  Ghanaians  were  encouraged  to  under- 
take some  form  of  food  production,  with  the  goal  of  eventual 
food  self-sufficiency  for  the  country.  The  program  enjoyed 
some  initial  success,  but  support  for  it  gradually  waned. 

Whatever  limited  success  the  NRC  had  in  these  efforts,  how- 
ever, was  overridden  by  other  basic  economic  factors.  Industry 
and  transportation  suffered  greatly  as  world  oil  prices  rose  dur- 
ing and  after  1974,  and  the  lack  of  foreign  exchange  and  credit 
left  the  country  without  fuel.  Basic  food  production  continued 
to  decline  even  as  the  population  grew,  largely  because  of  poor 
price  management  and  urbanization.  When  world  cocoa  prices 
rose  again  in  the  late  1970s,  Ghana  was  unable  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  price  rise  because  of  the  low  productivity  of  its  old 
orchards.  Moreover,  because  of  the  low  prices  paid  to  cocoa 
farmers,  some  growers  along  the  nation's  borders  smuggled 
their  produce  to  Togo  or  Cote  d'lvoire.  Disillusionment  with 
the  government  grew,  particularly  among  the  educated.  Accu- 
sations of  personal  corruption  among  the  rulers  also  began  to 
surface. 

The  reorganization  of  the  NRC  into  the  SMC  in  1975  may 
have  been  part  of  a  face-saving  attempt.  Shortly  after  that  time, 
the  government  sought  to  stifle  opposition  by  issuing  a  decree 
forbidding  the  propagation  of  rumors  and  by  banning  a  num- 
ber of  independent  newspapers  and  detaining  their  journalists. 
Also,  armed  soldiers  broke  up  student  demonstrations,  and  the 
government  repeatedly  closed  the  universities,  which  had 
become  important  centers  of  opposition  to  NRC  policies. 

Despite  these  efforts,  the  SMC  by  1977  found  itself  con- 
strained by  mounting  nonviolent  opposition.  To  be  sure,  dis- 
cussions about  the  nation's  political  future  and  its  relationship 
to  the  SMC  had  begun  in  earnest.  Although  the  various  opposi- 
tion groups  (university  students,  lawyers,  and  other  organized 
civilian  groups)  called  for  a  return  to  civilian  constitutional 
rule,  Acheampong  and  the  SMC  favored  a  union  govern- 
ment— a  mixture  of  elected  civilian  and  appointed  military 
leaders — but  one  in  which  party  politics  would  be  abolished. 
University  students  and  many  intellectuals  criticized  the  union 
government  idea,  but  others,  such  as  Justice  Gustav  Koranteng- 
Addow,  who  chaired  the  seventeen-member  ad  hoc  committee 
appointed  by  the  government  to  work  out  details  of  the  plan, 
defended  it  as  the  solution  to  the  nation's  political  problems. 


44 


Historical  Setting 


Supporters  of  the  union  government  idea  viewed  multiparty 
political  contests  as  the  perpetrators  of  social  tension  and  com- 
munity conflict  among  classes,  regions,  and  ethnic  groups. 
Unionists  argued  that  their  plan  had  the  potential  to  depoliti- 
cize  public  life  and  to  allow  the  nation  to  concentrate  its  ener- 
gies on  economic  problems. 

A  national  referendum  was  held  in  March  1978  to  allow  the 
people  to  accept  or  reject  the  union  government  concept.  A 
rejection  of  the  union  government  meant  a  continuation  of 
military  rule.  Given  this  choice,  it  was  surprising  that  so  narrow 
a  margin  voted  in  favor  of  union  government.  Opponents  of 
the  idea  organized  demonstrations  against  the  government, 
arguing  that  the  referendum  vote  had  not  been  free  or  fair. 
The  Acheampong  government  reacted  by  banning  several 
organizations  and  by  jailing  as  many  as  300  of  its  opponents. 

The  agenda  for  change  in  the  union  government  referen- 
dum called  for  the  drafting  of  a  new  constitution  by  an  SMC- 
appointed  commission,  the  selection  of  a  constituent  assembly 
by  November  1978,  and  general  elections  in  June  1979.  The  ad 
hoc  committee  had  recommended  a  nonparty  election,  an 
elected  executive  president,  and  a  cabinet  whose  members 
would  be  drawn  from  outside  a  single-house  National  Assem- 
bly. The  military  council  would  then  step  down,  although  its 
members  could  run  for  office  as  individuals. 

In  July  1978,  in  a  sudden  move,  the  other  SMC  officers 
forced  Acheampong  to  resign,  replacing  him  with  Lieutenant 
General  Frederick  W.K.  Akuffo.  The  SMC  apparently  acted  in 
response  to  continuing  pressure  to  find  a  solution  to  the  coun- 
try's economic  dilemma.  Inflation  was  estimated  to  be  as  high 
as  300  percent  that  year.  There  were  shortages  of  basic  com- 
modities, and  cocoa  production  fell  to  half  its  1964  peak.  The 
council  was  also  motivated  by  Acheampong's  failure  to  dampen 
rising  political  pressure  for  changes.  Akuffo,  the  new  SMC 
chairman,  promised  publicly  to  hand  over  political  power  to  a 
new  government  to  be  elected  by  July  1,  1979. 

Despite  Akuffo's  assurances,  opposition  to  the  SMC  per- 
sisted. The  call  for  the  formation  of  political  parties  intensified. 
In  an  effort  to  gain  support  in  the  face  of  continuing  strikes 
over  economic  and  political  issues,  the  Akuffo  government  at 
length  announced  that  the  formation  of  political  parties  would 
be  allowed  after  January  1979.  Akuffo  also  granted  amnesty  to 
former  members  of  both  Nkrumah's  CPP  and  Busia's  PP,  as 
well  as  to  all  those  convicted  of  subversion  under  Acheampong. 


45 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

The  decree  lifting  the  ban  on  party  politics  went  into  effect 
on  January  1,  1979,  as  planned.  The  commission  that  had  been 
working  on  a  new  constitution  presented  an  approved  draft 
and  adjourned  in  May.  All  appeared  set  for  a  new  attempt  at 
constitutional  government  in  July,  when  a  group  of  young  army 
officers  overthrew  the  SMC  government  in  June  1979. 

Ghana  and  the  Rawlings  Era 

On  May  15,  1979,  less  than  five  weeks  before  constitutional 
elections  were  to  be  held,  a  group  of  junior  officers  led  by 
Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John  Rawlings  attempted  a  coup.  Ini- 
tially unsuccessful,  the  coup  leaders  were  jailed  and  held  for 
court-martial.  On  June  4,  however,  sympathetic  military  offic- 
ers overthrew  the  Akuffo  regime  and  released  Rawlings  and  his 
cohorts  from  prison  fourteen  days  before  the  scheduled  elec- 
tion. Although  the  SMC's  pledge  to  return  political  power  to 
civilian  hands  addressed  the  concerns  of  those  who  wanted 
civilian  government,  the  young  officers  who  had  staged  the 
June  4  coup  insisted  that  issues  critical  to  the  image  of  the  army 
and  important  for  the  stability  of  national  politics  had  been 
ignored.  Naomi  Chazan,  a  leading  analyst  of  Ghanaian  politics, 
aptly  assessed  the  significance  of  the  1979  coup  in  the  follow- 
ing statement: 

Unlike  the  initial  SMC  II  [the  Akuffo  period,  1978- 
1979]  rehabilitation  effort  which  focused  on  the  power 
elite,  this  second  attempt  at  reconstruction  from  a  situa- 
tion of  disintegration  was  propelled  by  growing  alien- 
ation. It  strove,  by  reforming  the  guidelines  of  public 
behavior,  to  define  anew  the  state  power  structure  and  to 
revise  its  inherent  social  obligations.  . .  . 

In  retrospect  the  most  irreversible  outcome  of  this  phase 
was  the  systematic  eradication  of  the  SMC  leadership. .  . . 
[Their]  executions  signaled  not  only  the  termination  of 
the  already  fallacious  myth  of  the  nonviolence  of  Ghana- 
ian politics,  but,  more  to  the  point,  the  deadly  serious 
determination  of  the  new  government  to  wipe  the  politi- 
cal slate  clean. 

Rawlings  and  the  young  officers  formed  the  Armed  Forces 
Revolutionary  Council  (AFRC).  The  armed  forces  were  purged 
of  senior  officers  accused  of  corrupting  the  image  of  the  mili- 
tary. In  carrying  out  its  goal,  however,  the  AFRC  was  caught 


46 


A  military  shrine  of  an  asafo  company,  Fante  people,  coastal  region 
Courtesy  life  in  general  (Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper  Le  Van) 

between  two  groups  with  conflicting  interests,  Chazan 
observed.  These  included  the  "soldier-supporters  of  the  AFRC 
who  were  happy  to  lash  out  at  all  manifestations  of  the  old 
regimes;  and  the  now  organized  political  parties  who  decried 
the  undue  violence  and  advocated  change  with  restraint." 

Despite  the  coup  and  the  subsequent  executions  of  former 
heads  of  military  governments  (Afrifa  of  the  NLC;  Acheam- 
pong  and  some  of  his  associates  of  the  NRC;  and  Akuffo  and 
leading  members  of  the  SMC),  the  planned  elections  took 
place,  and  Ghana  had  returned  to  constitutional  rule  by  the 
end  of  September  1979.  Before  power  was  granted  to  the 
elected  government,  however,  the  AFRC  sent  the  unambiguous 
message  that  "people  dealing  with  the  public,  in  whatever 
capacity,  are  subject  to  popular  supervision,  must  abide  by  fun- 
damental notions  of  probity,  and  have  an  obligation  to  put  the 
good  of  the  community  above  personal  objective."  The  AFRC 
position  was  that  the  nation's  political  leaders,  at  least  those 
from  within  the  military,  had  not  been  accountable  to  the  peo- 
ple. The  administration  of  Hilla  Limann,  inaugurated  on  Sep- 
tember 24,  1979,  at  the  beginning  of  the  Third  Republic,  was 
thus  expected  to  measure  up  to  the  new  standard  advocated  by 
the  AFRC. 


47 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Limann's  People's  National  Party  (PNP)  began  the  Third 
Republic  with  control  of  only  seventy-one  of  the  140  legislative 
seats.  The  opposition  Popular  Front  Party  (PFP)  won  forty-two 
seats,  while  twenty-six  elective  positions  were  distributed 
among  three  lesser  parties.  The  percentage  of  the  electorate 
that  voted  had  fallen  to  40  percent.  Unlike  the  country's  previ- 
ous elected  leaders,  Limann  was  a  former  diplomat  and  a  non- 
charismatic  figure  with  no  personal  following.  As  Limann 
himself  observed,  the  ruling  PNP  included  people  of  conflict- 
ing ideological  orientations.  They  sometimes  disagreed 
strongly  among  themselves  on  national  policies.  Many  observ- 
ers, therefore,  wondered  whether  the  new  government  was 
equal  to  the  task  confronting  the  state. 

The  most  immediate  threat  to  the  Limann  administration, 
however,  was  the  AFRC,  especially  those  officers  who  organized 
themselves  into  the  'June  4  Movement"  to  monitor  the  civilian 
administration.  In  an  effort  to  keep  the  AFRC  from  looking 
over  its  shoulder,  the  government  ordered  Rawlings  and  sev- 
eral other  army  and  police  officers  associated  with  the  AFRC 
into  retirement;  nevertheless,  Rawlings  and  his  associates 
remained  a  latent  threat,  particularly  as  the  economy  contin- 
ued its  decline.  The  first  Limann  budget,  for  fiscal  year  (FY — 
see  Glossary)  1981,  estimated  the  Ghanaian  inflation  rate  at  70 
percent  for  that  year,  with  a  budget  deficit  equal  to  30  percent 
of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary).  The  Trade 
Union  Congress  claimed  that  its  workers  were  no  longer  earn- 
ing enough  to  pay  for  food,  much  less  anything  else.  A  rash  of 
strikes,  many  considered  illegal  by  the  government,  resulted, 
each  one  lowering  productivity  and  therefore  national  income. 
In  September  the  government  announced  that  all  striking  pub- 
lic workers  would  be  dismissed.  These  factors  rapidly  eroded 
the  limited  support  the  Limann  government  enjoyed  among 
civilians  and  soldiers.  The  government  fell  on  December  31, 
1981,  in  another  Rawlings-led  coup. 

The  Second  Coming  of  Rawlings:  The  First  Six  Years,  1982-87 

The  new  government  that  took  power  on  December  31, 
1981,  was  the  eighth  in  the  fifteen  years  since  the  fall  of  Nkru- 
mah.  Calling  itself  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council 
(PNDC),  its  membership  included  Rawlings  as  chairman,  Brig- 
adier Joseph  Nunoo-Mensah  (whom  Limann  had  dismissed  as 
army  commander),  two  other  officers,  and  three  civilians. 
Despite  its  military  connections,  the  PNDC  made  clear  that  it 


48 


Historical  Setting 


was  unlike  other  soldier-led  governments.  This  was  immedi- 
ately proved  by  the  appointment  of  fifteen  civilians  to  cabinet 
positions. 

In  a  radio  broadcast  on  January  5,  1982,  Rawlings  presented 
a  detailed  statement  explaining  the  factors  that  had  necessi- 
tated termination  of  the  Third  Republic.  The  PNDC  chairman 
assured  the  people  that  he  had  no  intention  of  imposing  him- 
self on  Ghanaians.  Rather,  he  "wanted  a  chance  for  the  people, 
farmers,  workers,  soldiers,  the  rich  and  the  poor,  to  be  part  of 
the  decision-making  process."  He  described  the  two  years  since 
the  AFRC  had  handed  over  power  to  a  civilian  government  as  a 
period  of  regression  during  which  political  parties  attempted 
to  divide  the  people  in  order  to  rule  them.  The  ultimate  pur- 
pose for  the  return  of  Rawlings  was,  therefore,  to  "restore 
human  dignity  to  Ghanaians."  In  the  chairman's  words,  the 
dedication  of  the  PNDC  to  achieving  its  goals  was  different 
from  any  the  country  had  ever  known.  It  was  for  that  reason 
that  the  takeover  was  not  a  military  coup,  but  rather  a  "holy 
war"  that  would  involve  the  people  in  the  transformation  of  the 
socioeconomic  structure  of  the  society.  The  PNDC  also  served 
notice  to  friends  and  foes  alike  that  any  interference  in  the 
PNDC  agenda  would  be  "fiercely  resisted." 

Opposition  to  the  PNDC  administration  developed  nonethe- 
less in  different  sectors  of  the  political  spectrum.  The  most 
obvious  groups  opposing  the  government  were  former  PNP 
and  PFP  members.  They  argued  that  the  Third  Republic  had 
not  been  given  time  to  prove  itself  and  that  the  PNDC  adminis- 
tration was  unconstitutional.  Further  opposition  came  from 
the  Ghana  Bar  Association  (GBA),  which  criticized  the  govern- 
ment's use  of  public  tribunals  in  the  administration  of  justice. 
Members  of  the  Trade  Union  Congress  were  also  angered 
when  the  PNDC  ordered  them  to  withdraw  demands  for 
increased  wages.  The  National  Union  of  Ghanaian  Students 
(NUGS)  went  even  further,  calling  on  the  government  to  hand 
over  power  to  the  attorney  general,  who  would  supervise  new 
elections. 

By  the  end  of  June  1982,  an  attempted  coup  had  been  dis- 
covered, and  those  implicated  had  been  executed.  Many  who 
disagreed  with  the  PNDC  administration  were  driven  into 
exile,  where  they  began  organizing  their  opposition.  They 
accused  the  government  of  human  rights  abuses  and  political 
intimidation,  which  forced  the  country,  especially  the  press, 
into  a  "culture  of  silence." 


49 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Meanwhile,  the  PNDC  was  subjected  to  the  influence  of  con- 
trasting political  philosophies  and  goals.  Although  the  revolu- 
tionary leaders  agreed  on  the  need  for  radical  change,  they 
differed  on  the  means  of  achieving  it.  For  example,  John  Nde- 
bugre,  secretary  for  agriculture  in  the  PNDC  government,  who 
was  later  appointed  northern  regional  secretary  (governor), 
belonged  to  the  radical  Kwame  Nkrumah  Revolutionary 
Guards,  an  extreme  left-wing  organization  that  advocated  a 
Marxist-Leninist  course  for  the  PNDC.  He  was  detained  and 
jailed  for  most  of  the  latter  part  of  the  1980s.  Other  members 
of  the  PNDC,  including  Kojo  Tsikata,  P.V.  Obeng,  and  Kwesi 
Botchwey,  were  believed  to  be  united  only  by  their  determina- 
tion either  to  uplift  the  country  from  its  desperate  conditions 
or  to  protect  themselves  from  vocal  opposition. 

In  keeping  with  Rawlings's  commitment  to  populism  as  a 
political  principle,  the  PNDC  began  to  form  governing  coali- 
tions and  institutions  that  would  incorporate  the  populace  at 
large  into  the  machinery  of  the  national  government.  Workers' 
Defence  Committees  (WDCs)  People's  Defence  Committees 
(PDCs),  Citizens'  Vetting  Committees  (CVCs),  Regional 
Defence  Committees  (RDCs),  and  National  Defence  Commit- 
tees (NDCs)  were  all  created  to  ensure  that  those  at  the  bottom 
of  society  were  given  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  deci- 
sion-making process.  These  committees  were  to  be  involved  in 
community  projects  and  community  decisions,  and  individual 
members  were  expected  to  expose  corruption  and  "anti-social 
activities."  Public  tribunals,  which  were  established  outside  the 
normal  legal  system,  were  also  created  to  try  those  accused  of 
antigovernment  acts.  And  a  four-week  workshop  aimed  at  mak- 
ing these  cadres  morally  and  intellectually  prepared  for  their 
part  in  the  revolution  was  completed  at  the  University  of 
Ghana,  Legon,  in  July  and  August  1983. 

Various  opposition  groups  criticized  the  PDCs  and  WDCs, 
however.  The  aggressiveness  of  certain  WDCs,  it  was  argued, 
interfered  with  management's  ability  to  make  the  bold  deci- 
sions needed  for  the  recovery  of  the  national  economy.  In 
response  to  such  criticisms,  the  PNDC  announced  on  Decem- 
ber 1,  1984,  the  dissolution  of  all  PDCs,  WDCs,  and  NDCs,  and 
their  replacement  with  Committees  for  the  Defence  of  the  Rev- 
olution (CDRs).  With  regard  to  public  boards  and  statutory 
corporations,  excluding  banks  and  financial  institutions,  Joint 
Consultative  Committees  (JCCs)  that  acted  as  advisory  bodies 
to  managing  directors  were  created. 


50 


Historical  Setting 


The  public  tribunals,  however,  despite  their  characterization 
as  undemocratic  by  the  GBA,  were  maintained.  Although  the 
tribunals  had  been  established  in  1982,  the  law  providing  for 
the  creation  of  a  National  Public  Tribunal  to  hear  and  deter- 
mine appeals  from,  and  decisions  of,  regional  public  tribunals 
was  not  passed  until  August  1984.  Section  3  and  Section  10  of 
the  PNDC  Establishment  Proclamation  limited  public  tribunals 
to  cases  of  a  political  and  an  economic  nature.  The  limitations 
placed  on  public  tribunals  by  the  government  in  1984  may 
have  been  an  attempt  by  the  administration  to  redress  certain 
weaknesses.  The  tribunals,  however,  were  not  abolished;  rather, 
they  were  defended  as  "fundamental  to  a  good  legal  system" 
that  needed  to  be  maintained  in  response  to  "growing  legal 
consciousness  on  the  part  of  the  people." 

At  the  time  when  the  foundations  of  these  sociopolitical 
institutions  were  being  laid,  the  PNDC  was  also  engaged  in  a 
debate  about  how  to  finance  the  reconstruction  of  the  national 
economy.  The  country  had  indeed  suffered  from  what  some 
described  as  the  excessive  and  unwise,  if  not  foolish,  expendi- 
tures of  the  Nkrumah  regime.  The  degree  of  decline  under  the 
NRC  and  the  SMC  had  also  been  devastating.  By  December 
1981,  when  the  PNDC  came  to  power,  the  inflation  rate  topped 
200  percent,  while  real  GDP  had  declined  by  3  percent  per 
annum  for  seven  years.  Not  only  cocoa  production  but  even 
diamonds  and  timber  exports  had  dropped  dramatically.  Gold 
production  had  also  fallen  to  half  its  preindependence  level. 

Ghana's  sorry  economic  condition,  according  to  the  PNDC, 
had  resulted  in  part  from  the  absence  of  good  political  leader- 
ship. In  fact,  as  early  as  the  AFRC  administration  in  1979,  Rawl- 
ings  and  his  associates  had  accused  three  former  military 
leaders  (generals  Afrifa,  Acheampong,  and  Akuffo)  of  corrup- 
tion and  greed  and  of  thereby  contributing  to  the  national  cri- 
sis and  had  executed  them  on  the  basis  of  this  accusation.  In 
other  words,  the  AFRC  in  1979  attributed  the  national  crisis  to 
internal,  primarily  political,  causes.  The  overthrow  of  the 
Limann  administration  by  the  PNDC  in  1981  was  an  attempt  to 
prevent  another  inept  administration  from  aggravating  an 
already  bad  economic  situation.  By  implication,  the  way  to 
resolve  some  of  the  problems  was  to  stabilize  the  political  situa- 
tion and  to  improve  the  economic  conditions  of  the  nation  rad- 
ically. 

At  the  end  of  its  first  year  in  power,  the  PNDC  announced  a 
four-year  program  of  economic  austerity  and  sacrifice  that  was 


51 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

to  be  the  first  phase  of  an  Economic  Recovery  Program  (ERP). 
If  the  economy  were  to  improve  significantly,  there  was  need 
for  a  large  injection  of  capital — a  resource  that  could  only  be 
obtained  from  international  financial  institutions  of  the  West. 
There  were  those  on  the  PNDC's  ideological  left,  however,  who 
rejected  consultation  with  such  agencies  because  these  institu- 
tions were  blamed  in  part  for  the  nation's  predicament.  Pre- 
cisely because  some  members  of  the  government  also  held 
such  views,  the  PNDC  secretary  for  finance  and  economic  plan- 
ning, Kwesi  Botchwey,  felt  the  need  to  justify  World  Bank  (see 
Glossary)  assistance  to  Ghana  in  1983: 

It  would  be  naive  and  unrealistic  for  certain  sections  of 
the  Ghanaian  society  to  think  that  the  request  for  eco- 
nomic assistance  from  the  World  Bank  and  its  affiliates 
means  a  sell-out  of  the  aims  and  objectives  of  the  Ghana- 
ian revolution  to  the  international  community.  ...  It  does 
not  make  sense  for  the  country  to  become  a  member  of 
the  bank  and  the  IMF  and  continue  to  pay  its  dues  only  to 
decline  to  utilize  the  resources  of  these  two  institutions. 

The  PNDC  recognized  that  it  could  not  depend  on  friendly 
nations  such  as  Libya  to  address  the  economic  problems  of 
Ghana.  The  magnitude  of  the  crisis — made  worse  by  wide- 
spread bush  fires  that  devastated  crop  production  in  1983-84 
and  by  the  return  of  more  than  one  million  Ghanaians  who 
had  been  expelled  from  Nigeria  in  1983,  which  had  intensified 
the  unemployment  situation — called  for  monetary  assistance 
from  institutions  with  more  resources. 

Phase  One  of  the  ERP  began  in  1983.  Its  goal  was  economic 
stability.  In  broad  terms,  the  government  wanted  to  reduce 
inflation  and  to  create  confidence  in  the  nation's  ability  to 
recover.  By  1987  progress  was  clearly  evident.  The  rate  of  infla- 
tion had  dropped  to  20  percent,  and  between  1983  and  1987, 
Ghana's  economy  reportedly  grew  at  6  percent  per  year.  Offi- 
cial assistance  from  donor  countries  to  Ghana's  recovery  pro- 
gram averaged  US$430  million  in  1987,  more  than  double  that 
of  the  preceding  years.  The  PNDC  administration  also  made  a 
remarkable  payment  of  more  than  US$500  million  in  loan 
arrears  dating  to  before  1966.  In  recognition  of  these  achieve- 
ments, international  agencies  had  pledged  more  than  US$575 
million  to  the  country's  future  programs  by  May  1987.  With 
these  accomplishments  in  place,  the  PNDC  inaugurated  Phase 
Two  of  the  ERP,  which  envisioned  privatization  of  state-owned 


52 


Historical  Setting 


assets,  currency  devaluation,  and  increased  savings  and  invest- 
ment, and  which  was  to  continue  until  1990. 

Notwithstanding  the  successes  of  Phase  One  of  the  ERP, 
many  problems  remained,  and  both  friends  and  foes  of  the 
PNDC  were  quick  to  point  them  out.  One  commentator  noted 
the  high  rate  of  Ghanaian  unemployment  as  a  result  of  the 
belt-tightening  policies  of  the  PNDC.  In  the  absence  of  employ- 
ment or  redeployment  policies  to  redress  such  problems,  he 
wrote,  the  effects  of  the  austerity  programs  might  create  cir- 
cumstances that  could  derail  the  PNDC  recovery  agenda. 

Unemployment  was  only  one  aspect  of  the  political  prob- 
lems facing  the  PNDC  government;  another  was  the  size  and 
breadth  of  the  PNDCs  political  base.  The  PNDC  initially 
espoused  a  populist  program  that  appealed  to  a  wide  variety  of 
rural  and  urban  constituents.  Even  so,  the  PNDC  was  the  object 
of  significant  criticism  from  various  groups  that  in  one  way  or 
another  called  for  a  return  to  constitutional  government. 
Much  of  this  criticism  came  from  student  organizations,  the 
GBA,  and  opposition  groups  in  self-imposed  exile,  who  ques- 
tioned the  legitimacy  of  the  military  government  and  its 
declared  intention  of  returning  the  country  to  constitutional 
rule.  So  vocal  was  the  outcry  against  the  PNDC  that  it  appeared 
on  the  surface  as  if  the  PNDC  enjoyed  little  support  among 
those  groups  who  had  historically  molded  and  influenced  Gha- 
naian public  opinion.  At  a  time  when  difficult  policies  were 
being  implemented,  the  PNDC  could  ill  afford  the  continued 
alienation  and  opposition  of  such  prominent  critics. 

By  the  mid-1980s,  therefore,  it  had  become  essential  that  the 
PNDC  demonstrate  that  it  was  actively  considering  steps  toward 
constitutionalism  and  civilian  rule.  This  was  true  notwithstand- 
ing the  recognition  of  Rawlings  as  an  honest  leader  and  the 
perception  that  the  situation  he  was  trying  to  redress  was  not  of 
his  creation.  To  move  in  the  desired  direction,  the  PNDC 
needed  to  weaken  the  influence  and  credibility  of  all  antago- 
nistic groups  while  it  created  the  necessary  political  structures 
that  would  bring  more  and  more  Ghanaians  into  the  process  of 
national  reconstruction.  The  PNDC's  solution  to  its  dilemma 
was  the  proposal  for  district  assemblies. 

The  District  Assemblies 

Although  the  National  Commission  for  Democracy  (NCD) 
had  existed  as  an  agency  of  the  PNDC  since  1982,  it  was  not 
until  September  1984  that  Justice  Daniel  F.  Annan,  himself  a 


53 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

member  of  the  ruling  council,  was  appointed  chairman.  The 
official  inauguration  of  the  NCD  in  January  1985  signaled 
PNDC  determination  to  move  the  nation  in  a  new  political 
direction.  According  to  its  mandate,  the  NCD  was  to  devise  a 
viable  democratic  system,  utilizing  public  discussions.  Annan 
explained  the  necessity  for  the  commission's  work  by  arguing 
that  the  political  party  system  of  the  past  had  lost  track  of  the 
country's  socio-economic  development  processes.  There  was 
the  need,  therefore,  to  search  for  a  new  political  order  that 
would  be  functionally  democratic.  Constitutional  rules  of  the 
past,  Annan  continued,  were  not  acceptable  to  the  new  revolu- 
tionary spirit,  which  saw  the  old  political  order  as  using  the  bal- 
lot box  "merely  to  ensure  that  politicians  got  elected  into 
power,  after  which  communication  between  the  electorate  and 
their  elected  representative  completely  broke  down." 

After  two  years  of  deliberations  and  public  hearings,  the 
NCD  recommended  the  formation  of  district  assemblies  as 
local  governing  institutions  that  would  offer  opportunities  to 
the  ordinary  person  to  become  involved  in  the  political  pro- 
cess. The  PNDC  scheduled  elections  of  the  proposed  assem- 
blies for  the  last  quarter  of  1988. 

If,  as  Rawlings  said,  the  PNDC  revolution  was  a  "holy  war," 
then  the  proposed  assemblies  were  part  of  a  PNDC  policy 
intended  to  annihilate  enemy  forces  or,  at  least,  to  reduce 
them  to  impotence.  The  strategy  was  to  deny  the  opposition  a 
legitimate  political  forum  within  which  it  could  articulate  its 
objections  to  the  government.  It  was  for  this  reason,  as  much  as 
it  was  for  those  stated  by  Annan,  that  a  five-member  District 
Assembly  Committee  was  created  in  each  of  the  nation's  110 
administrative  districts  and  was  charged  by  the  NCD  with 
ensuring  that  all  candidates  followed  electoral  rules.  The  dis- 
trict committees  were  to  disqualify  automatically  any  candidate 
who  had  a  record  of  criminal  activity,  insanity,  or  imprisonment 
involving  fraud  or  electoral  offenses  in  the  past,  especially  after 
1979.  Also  barred  from  elections  were  all  professionals  accused 
of  fraud,  dishonesty,  and  malpractice.  The  ban  on  political  par- 
ties, instituted  at  the  time  of  the  Rawlings  coup,  was  to  con- 
tinue. 

By  barring  candidates  associated  with  corruption  and  mis- 
management of  national  resources  from  running  for  district 
assembly  positions,  the  PNDC  hoped  to  establish  new  values  to 
govern  political  behavior  in  Ghana.  To  do  so  effectively,  the 
government  also  made  it  illegal  for  candidates  to  mount  cam- 


54 


Makola  Market,  the  largest  market  in  Accra 
Courtesy  life  in  general  (Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper  Le  Van) 

paign  platforms  other  than  the  one  defined  by  the  NCD.  Every 
person  qualified  to  vote  in  the  district  could  propose  candi- 
dates or  be  nominated  as  a  candidate.  Candidates  could  not  be 
nominated  by  organizations  and  associations  but  had  to  run 
for  district  office  on  the  basis  of  personal  qualifications  and  ser- 
vice to  their  communities. 

Once  in  session,  an  assembly  was  to  become  the  highest 
political  authority  in  each  district.  Assembly  members  were  to 
be  responsible  for  deliberation,  evaluation,  coordination,  and 
implementation  of  programs  accepted  as  appropriate  for  the 
district's  economic  development;  however,  district  assemblies 
were  to  be  subject  to  the  general  guidance  and  direction  of  the 
central  government.  To  ensure  that  district  developments  were 
in  line  with  national  policies,  one-third  of  assembly  members 
were  to  be  traditional  authorities  (chiefs)  or  their  representa- 
tives; these  members  were  to  be  approved  by  the  PNDC  in  con- 
sultation with  the  traditional  authorities  and  other  "productive 
economic  groups  in  the  district."  In  other  words,  a  degree  of 
autonomy  may  have  been  granted  to  the  assemblies  in  the 
determination  of  programs  most  suited  to  the  districts,  but  the 
PNDC  left  itself  with  the  ultimate  responsibility  of  making  sure 


55 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


that  such  programs  were  in  line  with  the  national  economic 
recovery  program. 

District  assemblies  as  outlined  in  PNDC  documents  were 
widely  discussed  by  friends  and  foes  of  the  government.  Some 
hailed  the  proposal  as  compatible  with  the  goal  of  granting  the 
people  opportunities  to  manage  their  own  affairs,  but  others 
(especially  those  of  the  political  right)  accused  the  government 
of  masking  its  intention  to  remain  in  power.  If  the  govern- 
ment's desire  for  democracy  were  genuine,  a  timetable  for 
national  elections  should  have  been  its  priority  rather  than  the 
preoccupation  with  local  government,  they  argued.  Some  ques- 
tioned the  wisdom  of  incorporating  traditional  chiefs  and  the 
degree  to  which  these  traditional  leaders  would  be  committed 
to  the  district  assembly  idea,  while  others  attacked  the  election 
guidelines  as  undemocratic  and,  therefore,  as  contributing  to  a 
culture  of  silence  in  Ghana.  To  such  critics,  the  district  assem- 
blies were  nothing  but  a  move  by  the  PNDC  to  consolidate  its 
position. 

Rawlings,  however,  responded  to  such  criticism  by  restating 
the  PNDC  strategy  and  the  rationale  behind  it: 

Steps  towards  more  formal  political  participation  are 
being  taken  through  the  district-level  elections  that  we 
will  be  holding  throughout  the  country  as  part  of  our 
decentralisation  policy.  As  I  said  in  my  nationwide  broad- 
cast on  December  31,  if  we  are  to  see  a  sturdy  tree  of 
democracy  grow,  we  need  to  learn  from  the  past  and  nur- 
ture very  carefully  and  deliberately  political  institutions 
that  will  become  the  pillars  upon  which  the  people's 
power  will  be  erected.  A  new  sense  of  responsibility  must 
be  created  in  each  workplace,  each  village,  each  district; 
we  already  see  elements  of  this  in  the  work  of  the  CDRs, 
the  31st  December  Women's  Movement,  the  June  4 
Movement,  Town  and  Village  Development  Committees, 
and  other  organizations  through  which  the  voice  of  the 
people  is  being  heard. 

As  for  the  categorization  of  certain  PNDC  policies  as  "leftist" 
and  "rightist,"  Rawlings  dismissed  such  allegations  as  "remark- 
ably simplistic.  .  .  .  What  is  certain  is  that  we  are  moving  for- 
wardl"  For  the  PNDC,  therefore,  the  district  elections 
constituted  an  obvious  first  step  in  a  political  process  that  was 
to  culminate  at  the  national  level. 


56 


Historical  Setting 


Rawlings's  explanation  notwithstanding,  various  opposition 
groups  continued  to  describe  the  PNDC-proposed  district 
assemblies  as  a  mere  public  relations  ploy  designed  to  give 
political  legitimacy  to  a  government  that  had  come  to  power  by 
unconstitutional  means.  Longtime  observers  of  the  Ghanaian 
political  scene,  however,  identified  two  major  issues  at  stake  in 
the  conflict  between  the  government  and  its  critics:  the  means 
by  which  political  stability  was  to  be  achieved,  and  the  problem 
of  attaining  sustained  economic  growth.  Both  had  preoccupied 
the  country  since  the  era  of  Nkrumah.  The  economic  recovery 
programs  implemented  by  the  PNDC  in  1983  and  the  proposal 
for  district  assemblies  in  1987  were  major  elements  in  the  gov- 
ernment's strategy  to  address  these  fundamental  and  persistent 
problems.  Both  were  very  much  part  of  the  national  debate  in 
Ghana  in  the  late  1980s. 

*  *  * 

Ghana,  formerly  the  Gold  Coast,  was  not  a  distinct  entity 
until  late  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Its  history  before  the 
arrival  of  the  Europeans  and  even  after  the  consolidation  of 
British  colonial  rule  must  be  studied  as  a  part  of  the  history  of 
the  portion  of  West  Africa  extending  from  Sierra  Leone  to 
Nigeria  and  northward  into  the  Sahara.  This  is  the  region  from 
which  came  the  people  and  the  social  and  political  organiza- 
tions that  most  influenced  Ghanaians.  Peoples  and  Empires  of 
West  Africa,  1000-1800by  G.T.  Stride  and  Caroline  Ifeka  gives  a 
rich  view  of  this  period,  with  adequate  attention  to  the  future 
Ghana.  So  does  the  classic  treatment  by  J.D.  Fage  in  his  A  His- 
tory of  West  Africa:  An  Introductory  Survey.  Robert  Lystad's  The 
Ashanti  and  Ivor  Wilks's  Asante  in  the  Nineteenth  Century:  The 
Structure  and  Evolution  of  a  Political  Order  both  provide  a  compre- 
hensive look  at  the  history  of  the  most  influential  of  the  purely 
Ghanaian  kingdoms,  without  which  an  understanding  of  later 
Ghanaian  history  would  be  impossible.  For  the  years  of  Euro- 
pean commercial  activities  on  the  Guinea  Coast,  see  Arnold 
Walter  Lawrence's  Trade,  Castles,  and  Forts  of  West  Africa  and  also 
his  Fortified  Trade-posts:  The  English  in  West  Africa,  1645-1822. 
Other  supplementary  readings  on  the  period  can  be  found  in 
works  by  Kwame  Arhin,  A.  Adu  Boahen,  Nehemia  Levtzion, 
Michael  Crowder,  and  John  K.  Fynn. 


57 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Military  readers  may  enjoy  Paul  Mmegha  Mbaeyi's  British 
Military  and  Naval  Forces  in  West  African  History,  1807-1874, 
which  provides  an  interesting  view  of  the  introductory  years  of 
colonial  rule.  The  third  part  of  William  M.  Hailey's  Native 
Administration  in  the  British  African  Territories  provides  exhaustive 
detail  on  the  colonial  period,  while  R.E.  Wraith's  Guggisberg is  a 
fine  description  of  an  era  when  colonial  policy  could  even  have 
been  defined  as  progressive.  For  information  on  the  ending  of 
British  rule  and  the  birth  of  nationalism,  David  E.  Apter's  The 
Gold  Coast  in  Transition  (revised  and  reprinted  as  Ghana  in  Tran- 
sition) still  provides  an  outstanding  assessment.  There  are  many 
books,  polemic  and  scholarly,  on  the  Nkrumah  years.  Peter  T. 
Omari's  Kwame  Nkrumah:  Anatomy  of  an  African  Dictatorship  is 
most  often  cited.  See  also  Bob  Beck  Fitch  and  Mary  Oppenhe- 
imer's  Ghana:  End  of  an  Illusion.  Among  the  most  valuable 
sources  on  what  Ghana  faced  in  the  post-Nkrumah  era  are 
those  by  Deborah  Pellow,  Naomi  Chazan,  Maxwell  Owusu,  and 
Kwame  Ninsin.  (For  further  information  and  complete  cita- 
tions, see  Bibliography.) 


58 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


An  akuaba  (fertility  doll)  (Asante) 


GHANA,  FORMERLYTHE  BRITISH  colony  of  the  Gold  Coast, 
lies  on  the  West  African  coast,  just  north  of  the  equator.  Its 
warm,  humid  climate  is  typical  of  the  tropics.  Ghana  covers  an 
area  of  approximately  239,000  square  kilometers,  much  of  it 
drained  by  the  Volta  River  system.  The  population  speaks  lan- 
guages that  belong  to  the  Kwa  and  Gur  subfamilies  of  the 
Niger-Congo  language  group  and  is  divided  into  more  than 
100  linguistic  and  cultural  units.  Ghana's  population,  as  in 
most  sub-Saharan  African  countries,  consists  of  urban  and 
rural  workers,  herders,  traders,  and  fishermen.  Matrilineal, 
patrilineal,  and  double-descent  systems  of  social  organization 
as  well  as  villages  and  chiefdoms  contribute  to  the  national 
mosaic. 

The  precolonial  social  systems  to  which  Ghanaians  belonged 
consisted  of  both  non-stratified  and  highly  stratified  societies. 
Virtually  without  exception,  however,  their  organizing  princi- 
ples were  based  on  locality,  kinship/family,  and  clan  structures. 
This  is  still  true  in  the  mid-1990s.  Chiefs,  who  may  be  influen- 
tial on  the  national  level,  were  and  still  are  selected  from  senior 
members  of  the  lineages  that  are  considered  to  have  been 
among  the  founders  of  the  community  or  ethnic  group.  Mem- 
bership in  a  chiefly  lineage  carries  some  prestige. 

Ghana's  precolonial  social  order,  in  which  kinship,  lineage, 
and  locality  provided  the  framework  of  social,  political,  reli- 
gious, and  economic  organization,  has  been  undergoing  pro- 
found change  since  before  the  colonial  era.  The 
modernization  of  Ghanaian  economic,  social,  and  political  life 
intensified  with  independence  in  1957.  Fundamental  to  this 
change  were  improvements  in  communications  and  infrastruc- 
ture, urbanization,  the  growth  of  the  export  and  cash-crop 
economy,  and  the  expansion  of  Western  education.  To  acceler- 
ate the  pace  of  modernization,  the  Education  Act  of  1960 
made  formal  instruction  both  free  and  compulsory,  but  atti- 
tudes toward  change  varied  from  group  to  group.  For  example, 
in  certain  areas,  especially  in  the  north,  compulsory  education 
was  not  welcomed  because  it  took  children  away  from  homes 
that  depended  on  their  labor  in  the  fields.  Although  the  bene- 
fits of  education  are  understood  today,  the  percentage  of 
female  enrollment  in  secondary  and  tertiary  institutions  of 


61 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

higher  learning  has  remained  disproportionately  low  in  rela- 
tion to  the  number  of  women  in  the  general  population. 

As  Ghana's  population  swelled  from  about  6.7  million  in 
1960  to  8.5  million  in  1970  to  an  estimated  17.2  million  in 
1994,  the  central  government  found  it  increasingly  difficult  to 
bring  about  improvements  in  the  standard  of  living  at  the  same 
time  that  population  growth  threatened  to  outstrip  food  pro- 
duction and  economic  growth.  The  issue  of  effective  family 
planning  also  required  attention  and  resources,  and  the  pres- 
ence of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome  (AIDS) 
alarmed  the  medical  community  and  the  Ghanaian  population 
alike.  Although  the  ancestral  extended  family  served  as  an 
effective  mutual  aid  group  in  the  rural  areas,  many  village  com- 
munities lacked  modern  amenities.  In  urban  centers,  housing 
shortages  continued  to  be  a  major  problem.Women's  associa- 
tions, such  as  the  National  Council  on  Women  and  Develop- 
ment, became  a  force  for  change,  demanding  educational  and 
economic  opportunities  denied  under  indigenous  and  colonial 
rulers. 

In  the  1980s,  the  governing  Provisional  National  Defence 
Council  tried  to  address  the  nation's  education  problems  by 
introducing  a  system  that  emphasized  vocational  and  technical 
training  for  all  students.  A  rural  electrification  program  was 
also  initiated.  At  the  same  time,  village-  and  community-based 
primary  care  organizations  enhanced  child-care  and  nutri- 
tional programs  aimed  at  illiterate  mothers  and  those  who  held 
traditional  notions  about  marital  relations.  Although  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  these  programs  in  the  short 
term,  at  least  some  major  problems  have  been  recognized  and 
steps  have  been  taken  to  deal  with  them.  The  success  of  such 
programs,  however,  depends  on  the  extent  to  which  indige- 
nous and  modern  institutions  and  cultural  values  are  balanced 
and,  especially,  on  the  manner  in  which  conflict  is  resolved. 

Physical  Setting 

Location  and  Size 

Ghana,  which  lies  in  the  center  of  the  West  African  coast, 
shares  borders  with  the  three  French-speaking  nations  of  Cote 
dTvoire  to  the  west,  Togo  to  the  east,  and  Burkina  Faso 
(Burkina,  formerly  Upper  Volta)  to  the  north.  To  the  south  are 
the  Gulf  of  Guinea  and  the  Atlantic  Ocean. 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


With  a  total  area  of  238,533  square  kilometers,  Ghana  is 
about  the  size  of  Britain.  Its  southernmost  coast  at  Cape  Three 
Points  is  4°  30'  north  of  the  equator.  From  here,  the  country 
extends  inland  for  some  670  kilometers  to  about  11°  north. 
The  distance  across  the  widest  part,  between  longitude  1°  12' 
east  and  longitude  3°  15'  west,  measures  about  560  kilometers. 
The  Greenwich  Meridian,  which  passes  through  London,  also 
traverses  the  eastern  part  of  Ghana  at  Tema. 

Geographical  Regions 

Ghana  is  characterized  in  general  by  low  physical  relief. 
Indeed,  the  Precambrian  rock  system  that  underlies  most  of 
the  nation  has  been  worn  down  by  erosion  almost  to  a  plain. 
The  highest  elevation  in  Ghana,  Mount  Afadjato  in  the 
Akwapim-Togo  Ranges,  rises  only  880  meters  above  sea  level. 

There  are,  nonetheless,  five  distinct  geographical  regions. 
Low  plains  stretch  across  the  southern  part  of  the  country.  To 
their  north  lie  three  regions — the  Ashanti  Uplands,  the 
Akwapim-Togo  Ranges,  and  the  Volta  Basin.  The  fifth  region, 
the  high  plains,  occupies  the  northern  and  northwestern  sec- 
tor of  the  country  (see  fig.  4).  Like  most  West  African  coun- 
tries, Ghana  has  no  natural  harbors.  Because  strong  surf 
pounds  the  shoreline,  two  artificial  harbors  were  built  at  Tako- 
radi  and  Tema  (the  latter  completed  in  1961)  to  accommodate 
Ghana's  shipping  needs. 

The  Low  Plains 

The  low  plains  comprise  the  four  subregions  of  the  coastal 
savanna,  the  Volta  Delta,  the  Accra  Plains,  and  the  Akan  Low- 
lands. A  narrow  strip  of  grassy  and  scrubby  coast  runs  from  a 
point  near  Takoradi  in  the  west  to  the  Togo  border  in  the  east. 
This  coastal  savanna,  only  about  eight  kilometers  in  width  at  its 
western  end,  stretches  eastward  through  the  Accra  Plains, 
where  it  widens  to  more  than  eighty  kilometers,  and  terminates 
at  the  southeastern  corner  of  the  country  at  the  lower  end  of 
the  Akwapim-Togo  Ranges. 

Almost  flat  and  featureless,  the  Accra  Plains  descend  gradu- 
ally to  the  gulf  from  a  height  of  about  150  meters.  The  topogra- 
phy east  of  the  city  of  Accra  is  marked  by  a  succession  of  ridges 
and  spoon-shaped  valleys.  The  hills  and  slopes  in  this  area  are 
the  favored  lands  for  cultivation.  Shifting  cultivation  is  the 
usual  agricultural  practice  because  of  the  swampy  nature  of  the 
very  low-lying  areas  during  the  rainy  seasons  and  the  periodic 


63 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

blocking  of  the  rivers  at  the  coast  by  sandbars  that  form 
lagoons.  A  plan  to  irrigate  higher  elevations  of  the  Accra  Plains 
was  announced  in  1984.  Should  this  plan  come  to  reality,  much 
of  the  area  could  be  opened  to  large-scale  cultivation. 

To  the  west  of  Accra,  the  low  plains  contain  wider  valleys  and 
rounded  low  hills,  with  occasional  rocky  headlands.  In  general, 
however,  the  land  is  flat  and  covered  with  grass  and  scrub. 
Dense  groves  of  coconut  palms  front  the  coastline.  Several 
commercial  centers,  including  Winneba,  Saltpond,  and  Gape 
Coast,  are  located  here.  Although  Winneba  has  a  small  live- 
stock industry  and  palm  tree  cultivation  is  expanding  in  the 
area  away  from  the  coast,  the  predominant  occupation  of  the 
coastal  inhabitants  is  fishing  by  dug-out  canoe. 

The  Volta  Delta,  which  forms  a  distinct  subregion  of  the  low 
plains,  extends  into  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  in  the  extreme  south- 
east. The  delta's  rock  formation — consisting  of  thick  layers  of 
sandstone,  some  limestone,  and  silt  deposits — is  flat,  feature- 
less, and  relatively  young.  As  the  delta  grew  outward  over  the 
centuries,  sandbars  developed  across  the  mouths  of  the  Volta 
and  smaller  rivers  that  empty  into  the  gulf  in  the  same  area, 
forming  numerous  lagoons,  some  quite  large,  making  road 
construction  difficult.  To  avoid  the  lowest-lying  areas,  for  exam- 
ple, the  road  between  Accra  and  Keta  makes  an  unusual  detour 
inland  just  before  reaching  Ada  and  finally  approaches  Keta 
from  the  east  along  the  narrow  spit  on  which  the  town  stands. 
This  notwithstanding,  road  links  with  Keta  continue  to  be  a 
problem.  By  1989  it  was  estimated  that  more  than  3,000  houses 
in  the  town  had  been  swallowed  by  flooding  from  the  lagoon. 
In  addition,  about  1,500  other  houses  were  destroyed  by  ero- 
sion caused  by  the  powerful  waves  of  the  sea. 

Ironically,  it  is  this  flat,  silt-composed  delta  region  with  its 
abundance  of  water  that  supports  shallot,  corn,  and  cassava  cul- 
tivation in  the  region.  Moreover,  the  sandy  soil  of  the  delta  gave 
rise  to  the  copra  industry.  Salt-making,  from  the  plentiful  sup- 
ply in  the  dried  beds  of  the  lagoons,  provides  additional 
employment.  The  main  occupation  of  the  delta  people,  how- 
ever, continues  to  be  fishing,  an  industry  that  supplies  dried 
and  salted  fish  to  other  parts  of  the  country. 

The  largest  part  of  the  low  plains  is  the  Akan  Lowlands. 
Some  experts  prefer  to  classify  this  region  as  a  subdivision  of 
the  Ashanti  Uplands  because  of  the  many  characteristics  they 
share.  Unlike  the  uplands,  however,  the  height  of  the  Akan 
Lowlands  is  generally  between  sea  level  and  150  meters.  Some 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ranges  and  hills  rise  to  about  300  meters,  but  few  exceed  600 
meters.  The  lowlands  that  lie  to  the  south  of  the  Ashanti 
Uplands  receive  the  many  rivers  that  make  their  way  to  the  sea. 

The  Akan  Lowlands  contain  the  basins  of  the  Densu  River, 
the  Pra  River,  the  Ankobra  River,  and  the  Tano  River,  all  of 
which  play  important  roles  in  the  economy  of  Ghana.  The 
Densu  River  Basin,  location  of  the  important  urban  centers  of 
Koforidua  and  Nsawam  in  the  eastern  lowlands,  has  an  undu- 
lating topography.  Many  of  the  hills  here  have  craggy  summits, 
which  give  a  striking  appearance  to  the  landscape.  The  upper 
section  of  the  Pra  River  Basin,  to  the  west  of  the  Densu,  is  rela- 
tively flat;  the  topography  of  its  lower  reaches,  however,  resem- 
bles that  of  the  Densu  Basin  and  the  area  is  a  rich  cocoa  and 
food-producing  region.  The  valley  of  the  Birim  River,  one  of 
the  main  tributaries  of  the  Pra,  is  the  country's  most  important 
diamond-producing  area. 

The  Ankobra  River  Basin  and  the  middle  and  lower  basins  of 
the  Tano  River  to  the  west  of  the  lowlands  form  the  largest  sub- 
division of  the  Akan  Lowlands.  Here  annual  rainfall  between 
1,500  and  2,150  millimeters  helps  assure  a  dense  forest  cover. 
In  addition  to  timber,  the  area  is  rich  in  minerals.  The  Tarkwa 
goldfield,  the  diamond  operations  of  the  Bonsa  Valley,  and 
high-grade  manganese  deposits  are  all  found  in  this  area.  The 
middle  and  lower  Tano  basins  have  been  intensely  explored  for 
oil  and  natural  gas  since  the  mid-1980s.  The  lower  basins  of  the 
Pra,  Birim,  Densu,  and  Ankobra  rivers  are  also  sites  for  palm 
tree  cultivation. 

Ashanti  Uplands 

Comprising  the  Southern  Ashanti  Uplands  and  the  Kwahu 
Plateau,  the  Ashanti  Uplands  lie  just  north  of  the  Akan  Low- 
lands and  stretch  from  the  Cote  d'lvoire  border  in  the  west  to 
the  elevated  edge  of  the  Volta  Basin  in  the  east.  Stretching  in  a 
northwest-to-southeast  direction,  the  Kwahu  Plateau  extends 
193  kilometers  between  Koforidua  in  the  east  and  Wenchi  in 
the  northwest.  The  average  elevation  of  the  plateau  is  about 
450  meters,  rising  to  a  maximum  of  762  meters.  The  relatively 
cool  temperatures  of  the  plateau  were  attractive  to  Europeans, 
particularly  missionaries,  who  founded  many  well-known 
schools  and  colleges  in  this  region. 

The  plateau  forms  one  of  the  important  physical  divides  in 
Ghana.  From  its  northeastern  slopes,  the  Afram  and  Pru  rivers 
flow  into  the  Volta  River,  while  from  the  opposite  side,  the  Pra, 


67 


Figure  4.  Topography  and  Drainage 


66 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ranges  and  hills  rise  to  about  300  meters,  but  few  exceed  600 
meters.  The  lowlands  that  lie  to  the  south  of  the  Ashanti 
Uplands  receive  the  many  rivers  that  make  their  way  to  the  sea. 

The  Akan  Lowlands  contain  the  basins  of  the  Densu  River, 
the  Pra  River,  the  Ankobra  River,  and  the  Tano  River,  all  of 
which  play  important  roles  in  the  economy  of  Ghana.  The 
Densu  River  Basin,  location  of  the  important  urban  centers  of 
Koforidua  and  Nsawam  in  the  eastern  lowlands,  has  an  undu- 
lating topography.  Many  of  the  hills  here  have  craggy  summits, 
which  give  a  striking  appearance  to  the  landscape.  The  upper 
section  of  the  Pra  River  Basin,  to  the  west  of  the  Densu,  is  rela- 
tively flat;  the  topography  of  its  lower  reaches,  however,  resem- 
bles that  of  the  Densu  Basin  and  the  area  is  a  rich  cocoa  and 
food-producing  region.  The  valley  of  the  Birim  River,  one  of 
the  main  tributaries  of  the  Pra,  is  the  country's  most  important 
diamond-producing  area. 

The  Ankobra  River  Basin  and  the  middle  and  lower  basins  of 
the  Tano  River  to  the  west  of  the  lowlands  form  the  largest  sub- 
division of  the  Akan  Lowlands.  Here  annual  rainfall  between 
1,500  and  2,150  millimeters  helps  assure  a  dense  forest  cover. 
In  addition  to  timber,  the  area  is  rich  in  minerals.  The  Tarkwa 
goldfield,  the  diamond  operations  of  the  Bonsa  Valley,  and 
high-grade  manganese  deposits  are  all  found  in  this  area.  The 
middle  and  lower  Tano  basins  have  been  intensely  explored  for 
oil  and  natural  gas  since  the  mid-1980s.  The  lower  basins  of  the 
Pra,  Birim,  Densu,  and  Ankobra  rivers  are  also  sites  for  palm 
tree  cultivation. 

Ashanti  Uplands 

Comprising  the  Southern  Ashanti  Uplands  and  the  Kwahu 
Plateau,  the  Ashanti  Uplands  lie  just  north  of  the  Akan  Low- 
lands and  stretch  from  the  Cote  d'lvoire  border  in  the  west  to 
the  elevated  edge  of  the  Volta  Basin  in  the  east.  Stretching  in  a 
northwest-to-southeast  direction,  the  Kwahu  Plateau  extends 
193  kilometers  between  Koforidua  in  the  east  and  Wenchi  in 
the  northwest.  The  average  elevation  of  the  plateau  is  about 
450  meters,  rising  to  a  maximum  of  762  meters.  The  relatively 
cool  temperatures  of  the  plateau  were  attractive  to  Europeans, 
particularly  missionaries,  who  founded  many  well-known 
schools  and  colleges  in  this  region. 

The  plateau  forms  one  of  the  important  physical  divides  in 
Ghana.  From  its  northeastern  slopes,  the  Afram  and  Pru  rivers 
flow  into  the  Volta  River,  while  from  the  opposite  side,  the  Pra, 


67 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Birim,  Ofin,  Tano,  and  other  rivers  flow  south  toward  the  sea. 
The  plateau  also  marks  the  northernmost  limit  of  the  forest 
zone.  Although  large  areas  of  the  forest  cover  have  been 
destroyed  through  farming,  enough  deciduous  forest  remains 
to  shade  the  headwaters  of  the  rivers  that  flow  from  the  pla- 
teau. 

The  Southern  Ashanti  Uplands,  extending  from  the  foot  of 
the  Kwahu  Plateau  in  the  north  to  the  lowlands  in  the  south, 
slope  gently  from  an  elevation  of  about  300  meters  in  the  north 
to  about  150  meters  in  the  south.  The  region,  however,  con- 
tains several  hills  and  ranges  as  well  as  several  towns  of  histori- 
cal and  economic  importance,  including  Kumasi,  Ghana's 
second  largest  city  and  former  capital  of  the  Asante  (also  seen 
as  Ashanti — see  Glossary)  empire  (see  The  Precolonial  Period, 
ch.  1).  Obuasi  and  Konongo,  two  of  the  country's  gold-mining 
centers,  are  also  located  here.  The  region  is  the  country's  chief 
producer  of  cocoa,  and  its  tropical  forests  continue  to  be  a  vital 
source  of  timber  for  the  lumber  industry. 

Akivapim-Togo  Ranges 

The  Akwapim-Togo  Ranges  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  coun- 
try consist  of  a  generally  rugged  complex  of  folded  strata,  with 
many  prominent  heights  composed  of  volcanic  rock.  The 
ranges  begin  west  of  Accra  and  continue  in  a  northeasterly 
direction,  finally  crossing  the  frontier  into  Togo. 

In  their  southeastern  part,  the  ranges  are  bisected  by  a  deep, 
narrow  gorge  cut  by  the  Volta  River.  The  head  of  this  gorge  is 
the  site  of  the  Akosombo  Dam,  which  impounds  the  river  to 
form  Lake  Volta.  The  ranges  south  of  the  gorge  form  the 
Akwapim  section  of  the  mountains.  The  average  elevation  in 
this  section  is  about  450  meters,  and  the  valleys  are  generally 
deep  and  relatively  narrow.  North  of  the  gorge,  for  about 
eighty  kilometers,  the  Togo  section  has  broader  valleys  and  low 
ridges.  Beyond  this  point,  the  folding  becomes  more  complex 
and  heights  increase  greatly,  with  several  peaks  rising  more 
than  610  meters  above  sea  level.  The  country's  highest  point, 
Mount  Afadjato,  is  located  in  this  area. 

The  ranges  are  largely  covered  with  deciduous  forests,  and 
their  higher  elevation  provides  a  relatively  cooler,  pleasant  cli- 
mate. Small-scale  subsistence  farming  is  typical  in  the  ranges. 
In  addition  to  the  cultivation  of  rice  and  other  staples,  coffee 
plantations  are  found  in  the  Togo  section  of  the  ranges. 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Volta  Basin 

Occupying  the  central  part  of  Ghana,  the  Volta  Basin  covers 
about  45  percent  of  the  nation's  total  land  surface.  Its  northern 
section,  which  lies  above  the  upper  part  of  Lake  Volta,  rises  to  a 
height  of  150  to  215  meters  above  sea  level.  Elevations  of  the 
Konkori  Scarp  to  the  west  and  the  Gambaga  Scarp  to  the  north 
reach  from  300  to  460  meters.  To  the  south  and  the  southwest, 
the  basin  is  less  than  300  meters.  The  Kwahu  Plateau  marks  the 
southern  end  of  the  basin,  although  it  forms  a  natural  part  of 
the  Ashanti  Uplands. 

The  basin  is  characterized  by  poor  soil,  generally  of  Voltaian 
sandstone.  Annual  rainfall  averages  between  1,000  and  1,140 
millimeters.  The  most  widespread  vegetation  type  is  savanna, 
the  woodlands  of  which,  depending  on  local  soil  and  climatic 
conditions,  may  contain  such  trees  as  Red  Ironwood  and  Shea. 

The  basin's  population,  principally  made  up  of  farmers,  is 
low  in  density,  especially  in  the  central  and  northwestern  areas, 
where  tsetse  flies  are  common.  Archaeological  finds  indicate, 
however,  that  the  region  was  once  more  heavily  populated. 
Periodic  burning  evidently  occurred  over  extensive  areas  for 
perhaps  more  than  a  millennium,  exposing  the  soil  to  excessive 
drying  and  erosion,  rendering  the  area  less  attractive  to  cultiva- 
tors. 

In  contrast  with  the  rest  of  the  region  are  the  Afram  Plains, 
located  in  the  southeastern  corner  of  the  basin.  Here  the  ter- 
rain is  low,  averaging  60  to  150  meters  in  elevation,  and  annual 
rainfall  is  between  1,140  and  about  1,400  millimeters.  Near  the 
Afram  River,  much  of  the  surrounding  countryside  is  flooded 
or  swampy  during  the  rainy  seasons.  With  the  construction  of 
Lake  Volta  (8,515  hectares  in  surface  area)  in  the  mid-1960s, 
much  of  the  Afram  Plains  was  submerged.  Despite  the  con- 
struction of  roads  to  connect  communities  displaced  by  the 
lake,  road  transportation  in  the  region  remains  poor.  Renewed 
efforts  to  improve  communications,  to  enhance  agricultural 
production,  and  to  improve  standards  of  living  began  in  ear- 
nest only  in  the  mid-1980s. 

The  High  Plains 

The  general  terrain  in  the  northern  and  northwestern  part 
of  Ghana  outside  the  Volta  Basin  consists  of  a  dissected  plateau, 
which  averages  between  150  and  300  meters  in  elevation  and, 
in  some  places,  is  even  higher.  Rainfall  averages  between  1,000 
and  1,150  millimeters  annually,  although  in  the  northwest  it  is 


69 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

closer  to  1,350  millimeters.  Soils  in  the  high  plains  are  more 
arable  than  those  in  the  Volta  Basin,  and  the  population  den- 
sity is  considerably  higher.  Grain  and  cattle  production  is  the 
major  economic  activity  in  the  high  plains  of  the  northern 
region.  Since  the  mid-1980s,  when  former  United  States  Presi- 
dent Jimmy  Carter's  Global  2000  program  (see  Glossary) 
adopted  Ghana  as  one  of  a  select  number  of  African  countries 
whose  local  farmers  were  to  be  educated  and  financially  sup- 
ported to  improve  agricultural  production,  there  has  been  a 
dramatic  increase  in  grain  production  in  northern  Ghana.  The 
virtual  absence  of  tsetse  flies  in  the  region  has  led,  moreover,  to 
increased  livestock  raising  as  a  major  occupation  in  the  north. 
In  fact,  the  region  is  the  country's  largest  producer  of  cattle. 

Rivers  and  Lakes 

Ghana  is  drained  by  a  large  number  of  streams  and  rivers.  In 
addition,  there  are  a  number  of  coastal  lagoons,  the  huge  man- 
made  Lake  Volta,  and  Lake  Bosumtwi,  southeast  of  Kumasi, 
which  has  no  outlet  to  the  sea.  In  the  wetter  south  and  south- 
west areas  of  Ghana,  the  river  and  stream  pattern  is  denser,  but 
in  the  area  north  of  the  Kwahu  Plateau,  the  pattern  is  much 
more  open,  making  access  to  water  more  difficult.  Several 
streams  and  rivers  also  dry  up  or  experience  reduced  flow  dur- 
ing the  dry  seasons  of  the  year,  while  flooding  during  the  rainy 
seasons  is  common. 

The  major  drainage  divide  runs  from  the  southwestern  part 
of  the  Akwapim-Togo  Ranges  northwest  through  the  Kwahu 
Plateau  and  then  irregularly  westward  to  the  Cote  d'lvoire  bor- 
der. Almost  all  the  rivers  and  streams  north  of  this  divide  form 
part  of  the  Volta  system.  Extending  about  1,600  kilometers  in 
length  and  draining  an  area  of  about  388,000  square  kilome- 
ters, of  which  about  158,000  square  kilometers  lie  within 
Ghana,  the  Volta  and  its  tributaries,  such  as  the  Afram  River 
and  the  Oti  River,  drain  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  country. 
To  the  south  of  the  divide  are  several  smaller,  independent  riv- 
ers. The  most  important  of  these  are  the  Pra  River,  the  Tano 
River,  the  Ankobra  River,  the  Birim  River,  and  the  Densu  River. 
With  the  exception  of  smaller  streams  that  dry  up  in  the  dry 
seasons  or  rivers  that  empty  into  inland  lakes,  all  the  major  riv- 
ers in  the  country  flow  into  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  directly  or  serve 
as  tributaries  to  other  major  rivers.  The  Ankobra  and  Tano  are 
navigable  for  considerable  distances  in  their  lower  reaches. 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Navigation  on  the  Volta  River  has  changed  significantly  since 
1964.  Construction  of  the  dam  at  Akosombo,  about  eighty  kilo- 
meters upstream  from  the  coast,  created  vast  Lake  Volta  and 
the  associated  768,000-kilowatt  hydroelectric  project.  Arms  of 
the  lake  extend  into  the  lower-lying  areas,  forcing  the  reloca- 
tion of  78,000  people  to  newly  created  townships  on  the  lake's 
higher  banks.  The  Black  Volta  River  and  the  White  Volta  River 
flow  separately  into  the  lake.  Before  their  confluence  was  sub- 
merged, the  rivers  came  together  in  the  middle  of  the  country 
to  form  the  main  Volta  River.  The  Oti  River  and  the  Daka  River, 
the  principal  tributaries  of  the  Volta  in  the  eastern  part  of  the 
country,  and  the  Pru  River,  the  Sene  River,  and  the  Afram 
River,  major  tributaries  to  the  north  of  the  Kawhu  Plateau,  also 
empty  into  flooded  extensions  of  the  lake  in  their  river  valleys. 
Lake  Volta  is  a  rich  source  of  fish,  and  its  potential  as  a  source 
for  irrigation  is  reflected  in  an  agricultural  mechanization 
agreement  signed  in  the  late  1980s  to  irrigate  the  Afram  Plains. 
The  lake  is  navigable  from  Akosombo  through  Yeji  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  country;  a  twenty-four-meter  pontoon  was  commis- 
sioned in  1989  to  link  the  Afram  Plains  to  the  west  of  the  lake 
with  the  lower  Volta  region  to  the  east.  Hydroelectricity  gener- 
ated from  Akosombo  supplies  Ghana,  Togo,  and  Benin. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  Kwahu  Plateau  from  Lake  Volta  are 
several  river  systems,  including  the  Pra,  Ankobra,  Tano  and 
Densu.  The  Pra  is  the  easternmost  and  the  largest  of  the  three 
principal  rivers  that  drain  the  area  south  of  the  Volta  divide. 
Rising  south  of  the  Kwahu  Plateau  and  flowing  southward,  the 
Pra  enters  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  east  of  Takoradi.  In  the  early  part 
of  the  twentieth  century,  the  Pra  was  used  extensively  to  float 
timber  to  the  coast  for  export.  This  trade  is  now  carried  by 
road  and  rail  transportation. 

The  Ankobra,  which  flows  to  the  west  of  the  Pra,  has  a  rela- 
tively small  drainage  basin.  It  rises  in  the  hilly  region  of  Bibiani 
and  flows  in  a  southerly  direction  to  enter  the  gulf  just  west  of 
Axim.  Small  craft  can  navigate  approximately  eighty  kilometers 
inland  from  its  mouth.  At  one  time,  the  Ankobra  helped  trans- 
port machinery  to  the  gold-mining  areas  in  the  vicinity  of 
Tarkwa.  The  Tano,  which  is  the  westernmost  of  the  three  rivers, 
rises  near  Techiman  in  the  center  of  the  country.  It  also  flows 
in  a  southerly  direction,  but  it  empties  into  a  lagoon  in  the 
southeastern  corner  of  Cote  dTvoire.  Navigation  by  steam 
launch  is  possible  on  the  southern  sector  of  the  Tano  for  about 
seventy  kilometers. 


71 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

A  number  of  rivers  are  found  to  the  east  of  the  Pra.  The  two 
most  important  are  the  Densu  and  Ayensu,  which  are  major 
sources  of  water  for  Accra  and  Winneba,  respectively.  The 
country  has  one  large  natural  lake,  Lake  Bosumtwi,  located 
about  thirty-two  kilometers  southeast  of  Kumasi.  It  occupies 
the  steep-sided  caldera  of  a  former  volcano  and  has  an  area  of 
about  forty-seven  square  kilometers.  A  number  of  small  streams 
flow  into  Lake  Bosumtwi,  but  there  is  no  drainage  from  it.  In 
addition  to  providing  an  opportunity  for  fishing  for  local 
inhabitants,  the  lake  serves  as  a  tourist  attraction. 

Climate 

The  country's  warm,  humid  climate  has  an  annual  mean 
temperature  between  26°G  and  29°C.  Variations  in  the  princi- 
pal elements  of  temperature,  rainfall,  and  humidity  that  gov- 
ern the  climate  are  influenced  by  the  movement  and 
interaction  of  the  dry  tropical  continental  air  mass,  or  the  har- 
mattan,  which  blows  from  the  northeast  across  the  Sahara,  and 
the  opposing  tropical  maritime  or  moist  equatorial  system.  The 
cycle  of  the  seasons  follows  the  apparent  movement  of  the  sun 
back  and  forth  across  the  equator. 

During  summer  in  the  northern  hemisphere,  a  warm  and 
moist  maritime  air  mass  intensifies  and  pushes  northward 
across  the  country.  A  low-pressure  belt,  or  intertropical  front, 
in  the  airmass  brings  warm  air,  rain,  and  prevailing  winds  from 
the  southwest.  As  the  sun  returns  south  across  the  equator,  the 
dry,  dusty,  tropical  continental  front,  or  harmattan,  prevails. 

Climatic  conditions  across  the  country  are  hardly  uniform. 
The  Kwahu  Plateau,  which  marks  the  northernmost  extent  of 
the  forest  area,  also  serves  as  an  important  climatic  divide.  To 
its  north,  two  distinct  seasons  occur.  The  harmattan  season, 
with  its  dry,  hot  days  and  relatively  cool  nights  from  November 
to  late  March  or  April,  is  followed  by  a  wet  period  that  reaches 
its  peak  in  late  August  or  September.  To  the  south  and  south- 
west of  the  Kwahu  Plateau,  where  the  annual  mean  rainfall 
from  north  to  south  ranges  from  1,250  millimeters  to  2,150 
millimeters,  four  separate  seasons  occur.  Heavy  rains  fall  from 
about  April  through  late  June.  After  a  relatively  short  dry 
period  in  August,  another  rainy  season  begins  in  September 
and  lasts  through  November,  before  the  longer  harmattan  sea- 
son sets  in  to  complete  the  cycle. 

The  extent  of  drought  and  rainfall  varies  across  the  country. 
To  the  south  of  the  Kwahu  Plateau,  the  heaviest  rains  occur  in 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  Axim  area  in  the  southwest  corner  of  Ghana.  Farther  to  the 
north,  Kumasi  receives  an  average  annual  rainfall  of  about 
1,400  millimeters,  while  Tamale  in  the  drier  northern  savanna 
receives  rainfall  of  1,000  millimeters  per  year.  From  Takoradi 
eastward  to  the  Accra  Plains,  including  the  lower  Volta  region, 
rainfall  averages  only  750  millimeters  to  1,000  millimeters  a 
year. 

Temperatures  are  usually  high  at  all  times  of  the  year 
throughout  the  country.  At  higher  elevations,  temperatures  are 
more  comfortable.  In  the  far  north,  temperature  highs  of  31°C 
are  common.  The  southern  part  of  the  country  is  characterized 
by  generally  humid  conditions.  This  is  particularly  so  during 
the  night,  when  95  to  100  percent  humidity  is  possible.  Humid 
conditions  also  prevail  in  the  northern  section  of  the  country 
during  the  rainy  season.  During  the  harmattan  season,  how- 
ever, humidity  drops  as  low  as  25  percent  in  the  north. 

Population 

Ghana's  first  postindependence  population  census  in  1960 
counted  about  6.7  million  inhabitants.  By  1970  the  national 
census  registered  8.5  million  people,  about  a  27  percent 
increase;  the  most  recent  official  census  in  1984  recorded  a  fig- 
ure of  12.3  million — almost  double  the  1960  figure  (see  table 
2,  Appendix).  The  nation's  population  was  estimated  to  have 
increased  to  about  15  million  in  1990  and  to  an  estimated  17.2 
million  in  mid-1994.  With  an  annual  growth  rate  of  2.2  percent 
for  the  period  between  1965  and  1980,  a  3.4  percent  growth 
rate  for  1981  through  1989,  and  a  1992  growth  rate  of  3.2  per- 
cent, the  country's  population  is  projected  to  surpass  20  mil- 
lion by  the  year  2000  and  35  million  by  2025. 

Increasing  population  is  reflected  in  other  statistical  repre- 
sentations as  well.  Between  1965  and  1989,  a  constant  45  per- 
cent of  the  nation's  total  female  population  was  of  childbearing 
age.  The  crude  birth  rate  of  47  per  1,000  population  recorded 
for  1965  dropped  to  44  per  1,000  population  in  1992.  Also,  the 
crude  death  rate  of  18  per  1,000  population  in  1965  fell  to  13 
per  1,000  population  in  1992,  while  life  expectancy  rose  from 
an  average  of  forty-two  years  for  men  and  forty-five  years  for 
women  in  1970-75  to  fifty-two  and  fifty-six  years,  respectively,  in 
1992.  The  1965  infant  mortality  rate  of  120  per  1,000  live  births 
also  improved  to  86  per  1,000  live  births  in  1992.  With  the  fer- 
tility rate  averaging  about  seven  children  per  adult  female  and 
expected  to  fall  only  to  five  children  per  adult  female  by  the 


73 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

year  2000,  the  population  projection  of  35  million  in  2025 
becomes  more  credible.  A  number  of  factors,  including 
improved  vaccination  against  common  diseases  and  nutritional 
education  through  village  and  community  health-care  systems, 
contributed  to  the  expanding  population.  The  rise  in  the 
nation's  population  generated  a  corresponding  rise  in  the 
demand  for  schools,  health  facilities,  and  urban  housing. 

The  gender  ratio  of  the  population,  97.3  males  to  100 
females,  was  reflected  in  the  1984  figures  of  6,063,848  males  to 
6,232,233  females  (see  fig.  5).  This  was  slightly  below  the  1970 
figure  of  98  males  to  100  females,  but  a  reversal  of  the  1960 
ratio  of  102.2  males  to  100  females.  The  fall  in  the  proportion 
of  males  to  females  may  be  partly  attributed  to  the  fact  that 
men  have  left  the  country  in  pursuit  of  jobs. 

Also  significant  in  the  1984  census  figures  was  the  national 
age  distribution.  About  58  percent  of  Ghana's  population  in 
1984  was  either  under  the  age  of  twenty  or  above  sixty-five. 
Approximately  7  million  people  were  represented  in  this  cate- 
gory, about  4  million  of  them  under  the  age  of  ten  and,  there- 
fore, economically  unproductive.  The  large  population  of 
young,  economically  unproductive  individuals  appeared  to  be 
growing  rapidly.  In  the  early  1990s,  about  half  of  Ghana's  popu- 
lation was  under  age  fifteen.  If  the  under-twenty  group  and 
those  above  the  age  of  sixty  are  regarded  as  a  dependent 
group,  the  social,  political,  and  economic  implications  for  the 
1990s  and  beyond  are  as  grave  for  Ghana  as  they  are  for  sub- 
Saharan  Africa  as  a  whole. 

Population  Distribution 

Population  density  increased  steadily  from  thirty-six  per 
square  kilometer  in  1970  to  fifty-two  per  square  kilometer  in 
1984;  in  1990  sixty-three  persons  per  square  kilometer  was  the 
estimate  for  Ghana's  overall  population  density.  These  aver- 
ages, naturally,  did  not  reflect  variations  in  population  distribu- 
tion. For  example,  while  the  Northern  Region,  one  of  ten 
administrative  regions,  showed  a  density  of  seventeen  persons 
per  square  kilometer  in  1984,  in  the  same  year  Greater  Accra 
Region  recorded  nine  times  the  national  average  of  fifty-two 
per  square  kilometer.  As  was  the  case  in  the  1960  and  1970  fig- 
ures, the  greatest  concentration  of  population  in  1984  was  to 
the  south  of  the  Kwahu  Plateau.  The  highest  concentration  of 
habitation  continued  to  be  within  the  Accra-Kumasi-Takoradi 
triangle,  largely  because  of  the  economic  productivity  of  the 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


region.  In  fact,  all  of  the  country's  mining  centers,  timber-pro- 
ducing deciduous  forests,  and  cocoa-growing  lands  lie  to  the 
south  of  the  Kwahu  Plateau.  The  Accra-Kumasi-Takoradi  trian- 
gle also  is  conveniently  linked  to  the  coast  by  rail  and  road  sys- 
tems— making  this  area  an  important  magnet  for  investment 
and  labor  (see  fig.  10). 

By  contrast,  a  large  part  of  the  Volta  Basin  is  sparsely  popu- 
lated. The  presence  of  tsetse  flies,  the  relative  infertility  of  the 
soil,  and,  above  all,  the  scarcity  of  water  in  the  area  during  the 
harmattan  season  affect  habitation.  The  far  north,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  heavily  populated.  The  eighty-seven  persons  per 
square  kilometer  recorded  in  the  1984  census  for  the  Upper 
East  Region,  for  example,  was  well  above  the  national  average. 
This  density  may  be  explained  in  part  by  the  somewhat  better 
soil  found  in  some  areas  and  the  general  absence  of  the  tsetse 
fly;  however,  onchocerciasis,  or  river  blindness,  a  fly-borne  dis- 
ease, is  common  in  the  north  and  has  caused  abandonment  of 
some  land.  With  the  improvement  of  the  water  supply  through 
well-drilling  and  the  introduction  of  intensive  agricultural 
extension  services  as  part  of  the  Global  2000  program  since  the 
mid-1980s,  demographic  figures  for  the  far  north  could  be 
markedly  different  by  the  next  census. 

Another  factor  affecting  Ghana's  demography  is  refugees.  At 
the  end  of  1994,  approximately  110,000  refugees  resided  in 
Ghana.  About  90,000  were  Togolese  who  had  fled  political  vio- 
lence in  their  homeland  beginning  in  early  1993  (see  Relations 
with  Immediate  African  Neighbors,  ch.  4).  Most  Togolese  set- 
tled in  the  Volta  region  among  their  ethnic  kinsmen.  About 
20,000  Liberians  were  also  found  in  Ghana,  having  fled  the 
civil  war  in  their  country  (see  International  Security  Concerns, 
ch.  5).  Many  were  long-term  residents.  As  a  result  of  ethnic 
fighting  in  northeastern  Ghana  in  early  1994,  at  least  20,000 
Ghanaians  out  of  an  original  group  of  150,000  were  still  inter- 
nally displaced  at  the  end  of  the  year.  About  5,000  had  taken 
up  residence  in  Togo  because  of  the  strife. 

Urban-Rural  Disparities 

Localities  of  5,000  persons  and  above  have  been  classified  as 
urban  since  1960.  On  this  basis,  the  1960  urban  population 
totalled  1,551,174  persons,  or  23.1  percent  of  total  population. 
By  1970,  the  percentage  of  the  country's  population  residing  in 
urban  centers  had  increased  to  28  percent.  That  percentage 


75 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


TOTAL  POPULATION  =  ca.  15  MILLION 


AGE-GROUP 


POPULATION  IN  MILLIONS 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Eduard  Bos,  My  T.  Vu,  Ann  Levin,  and  Rudolfo  A. 
Bulatao,  World  Population  Projections,  1992-93  Edition,  Baltimore,  1992,  238. 

Figure  5.  Estimated  Population  by  Age  and  Gender,  1990 

rose  to  32  in  1984  and  was  estimated  at  33  percent  for  1992 
(see  table  3,  Appendix). 

Like  the  population  density  figures,  the  rate  of  urbanization 
varies  from  one  administrative  region  to  another.  While  the 
Greater  Accra  Region  showed  an  83-percent  urban  residency, 
the  Ashanti  Region  matched  the  national  average  of  32  percent 
in  1984.  The  Upper  West  Region  of  the  country  recorded  only 
10  percent  of  its  population  in  urban  centers  that  year,  which 
reflected  internal  migration  to  the  south  and  the  pattern  of 
development  that  favored  the  south,  with  its  minerals  and  for- 
est resources,  over  the  north.  Urban  areas  in  Ghana  have  cus- 
tomarily been  supplied  with  more  amenities  than  rural 
locations.  Consequently,  Kumasi,  Accra,  and  many  towns  within 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  southern  economic  belt  have  attracted  more  people  than 
the  savanna  regions  of  the  north;  only  Tamale  in  the  north  has 
been  an  exception.  The  linkage  of  the  national  electricity  grid 
to  the  northern  areas  of  the  country  in  the  late  1980s  may  help 
to  stabilize  the  north-to-south  flow  of  internal  migration. 

The  growth  of  urban  population  notwithstanding,  Ghana 
continues  to  be  a  nation  of  rural  communities.  The  1984  enu- 
meration showed  that  six  of  the  country's  ten  regions  had  rural 
populations  of  5  percent  or  more  above  the  national  average  of 
68  percent.  Rural  residency  was  estimated  to  be  67  percent  of 
the  population  in  1992.  These  figures,  though  reflecting  a 
trend  toward  urban  residency,  are  not  very  different  from  the 
1970s  when  about  72  percent  of  the  nation's  population  lived 
in  rural  areas. 

In  an  attempt  to  perpetuate  this  pattern  of  rural-urban  resi- 
dency and  thereby  to  lessen  the  consequent  socioeconomic 
impact  on  urban  development,  the  "Rural  Manifesto,"  which 
assessed  the  causes  of  rural  underdevelopment,  was  introduced 
in  April  1984.  Development  strategies  were  evaluated,  and 
some  were  implemented  to  make  rural  residency  more  attrac- 
tive. As  a  result,  the  Bank  of  Ghana  established  more  than  120 
rural  banks  to  support  rural  entrepreneurs,  and  the  rural  elec- 
trification program  was  intensified  in  the  late  1980s.  The  gov- 
ernment, moreover,  presented  its  plans  for  district  assemblies 
as  a  component  of  its  strategy  for  rural  improvement  through 
decentralized  administration,  a  program  designed  to  allow 
local  people  to  become  more  involved  in  planning  develop- 
ment programs  to  meet  local  needs  (see  District  Assembly  Elec- 
tions, ch.  4). 

Family  Planning 

A  survey  carried  out  between  1962  and  1964  in  rural  areas  of 
the  country  and  among  the  economically  better-off  urban  pop- 
ulation indicated  the  nature  of  the  problem  with  population 
control  in  Ghana.  The  survey  showed  that  rural  families 
favored  a  total  of  seven  or  eight  children  and  that  the  actual 
number  of  children  in  the  better-off  urban  family  ran  between 
five  and  six.  In  neither  case  was  there  much  interest  in  limiting 
the  size  of  the  family,  although  the  urban  group  stated  that  it 
would  recommend  a  maximum  of  three  or  four  children  to 
newly  married  couples. 

The  Ghanaian  government  has  long  shown  an  active  interest 
in  the  population  question.  It  was  a  cosponsor  of  a  resolution 


77 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

on  population  growth  and  economic  development  in  the 
1962-63  session  of  the  United  Nations  (UN)  General  Assembly 
and  was  the  first  sub-Saharan  country  to  sign  the  "World  Lead- 
ers' Declaration  on  Population"  in  1967  that  called  attention  to 
the  population  question.  In  1969  it  issued  a  general  policy 
paper,  "Population  Planning  for  National  Progress  and  Pros- 
perity," that  included  provisions  for  family  planning  services. 
Subsequently,  in  1969,  it  carried  out  a  mass  publicity  and  edu- 
cation campaign  on  family  planning  and  during  late  1970 
sponsored  an  awareness  week  designed  to  encourage  accep- 
tance of  family  planning. 

Some  family  planning  services  have  been  available  since 
1966,  when  the  Planned  Parenthood  Association  of  Ghana  was 
formed.  In  the  early  1990s,  branch  offices  of  the  organization 
were  still  functioning  in  regional  capitals  out  of  which  field 
officers  (usually  women)  organized  community  awareness  cam- 
paigns. In  addition  to  the  obvious  family  planning  activities, 
the  Planned  Parenthood  Association  and  the  United  States 
government  furnished  technical  and  financial  support  to  the 
government's  effort  to  control  population  expansion.  This  sup- 
port included  aid  for  the  demographic  unit  of  the  Sociology 
Department  of  the  University  of  Ghana  in  the  collection  of 
data  on  attitudes  toward  population  control  and  on  family 
planning  practices  during  the  1970s.  The  aid  program  also 
funded  pilot  projects  that  incorporated  family  planning  educa- 
tion into  basic  health  services  and  that  provided  training  of 
medical  and  paramedical  personnel. 

Although  many  adult  Ghanaians  have  at  least  some  knowl- 
edge of  family  planning,  data  from  the  1980s  suggest  almost  no 
change  in  attitudes  and  practices  from  the  1960s.  For  example, 
most  Ghanaian  women  still  prefer  large  families  and  probably 
see  their  child-bearing  abilities  as  a  form  of  social  and  eco- 
nomic security  (see  The  Position  of  Women,  this  ch.).  In 
Africa,  where  the  infant  mortality  rate  is  generally  high,  large 
families  ensure  that  some  children  will  survive.  It  is,  therefore, 
not  surprising  that  Ghana's  population  continues  to  grow  rap- 
idly in  the  1990s. 

In  an  effort  to  regulate  the  effects  of  rapid  population 
growth,  the  government  launched  a  substantial  public  educa- 
tion program  for  women  in  the  late  1980s  that  continued  into 
the  1990s.  In  numerous  newspaper  articles  and  at  community 
health  centers,  the  campaign  stressed  child  nutrition  and 
immunization  and  the  spacing  of  births.  Although  family  plan- 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


ning  had  been  incorporated  into  basic  women's  health  ser- 
vices, no  attention  was  given  to  the  role  of  men  in  family 
planning  until  the  beginning  of  the  1990s  when  a  campaign  to 
control  the  spread  of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS)  addressed  male  promiscuity  and  the  practice  of  polyg- 
amy (see  Acquired  Immune  Deficiency  Syndrome,  this  ch.). 
Because  of  government  efforts  and  increased  aid  from  the 
United  States,  some  increase  in  the  use  of  contraceptives  and 
modern  methods  of  birth  control  has  occurred  during  the 
early  1990s.  As  is  to  be  expected,  family  planning  is  more  likely 
to  be  practiced  among  women  who  live  in  urban  areas  with 
greater  access  to  family  planning  services  and  whose  level  of 
education  is  junior  secondary  school  or  above. 

Ethnic  Groups  and  Languages 

In  1960  roughly  100  linguistic  and  cultural  groups  were 
recorded  in  Ghana.  Although  later  censuses  placed  less  empha- 
sis on  the  ethnic  and  cultural  composition  of  the  population, 
differences,  of  course,  existed  and  had  not  disappeared  by  the 
mid-1990s  (see  fig.  6).  The  major  ethnic  groups  in  Ghana 
include  the  Akan,  Ewe,  Mole-Dagbane,  Guan,  and  Ga-Adan- 
gbe.  The  subdivisions  of  each  group  share  a  common  cultural 
heritage,  history,  language,  and  origin.  These  shared  attributes 
were  among  the  variables  that  contributed  to  state  formation  in 
the  precolonial  period.  Competition  to  acquire  land  for  culti- 
vation, to  control  trade  routes,  or  to  form  alliances  for  protec- 
tion also  promoted  group  solidarity  and  state  formation.  The 
creation  of  the  union  that  became  the  Asante  confederacy  in 
the  late  seventeenth  century  is  a  good  example  of  such  pro- 
cesses at  work  in  Ghana's  past  (see  The  Precolonial  Period,  ch. 

i). 

Ethnic  rivalries  of  the  precolonial  era,  variance  in  the  impact 
of  colonialism  upon  different  regions  of  the  country,  and  the 
uneven  distribution  of  social  and  economic  amenities  in 
postindependence  Ghana  have  all  contributed  to  present-day 
ethnic  tensions.  For  example,  in  February  1994,  more  than 
1,000  persons  were  killed  and  150,000  displaced  in  the  north- 
eastern part  of  Ghana  in  fighting  between  Konkomba  on  one 
side  and  Nanumba,  Dagomba,  and  Gonja  on  the  other.  The 
clashes  resulted  from  long-standing  grievances  over  land  own- 
ership and  the  prerogatives  of  chiefs.  A  military  task  force 
restored  order,  but  a  state  of  emergency  in  the  region 
remained  in  force  until  mid-August. 


79 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  6.  Principal  Ethnolinguistic  Groups 

Although  this  violence  was  certainly  evidence  of  ethnic  ten- 
sion in  the  country,  most  observers  agreed  that  the  case  in 
point  was  exceptional.  As  one  prolific  writer  on  modern 
Ghana,  Naomi  Chazan,  has  aptly  observed,  undifferentiated 
recourse  to  ethnic  categories  has  obscured  the  essential  fluidity 
that  lies  at  the  core  of  shared  ties  in  the  country  Evidence  of 
this  fluidity  lies  in  the  heterogeneous  nature  of  all  administra- 
tive regions,  in  rural-urban  migration  that  results  in  interethnic 


80 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


mixing,  in  the  shared  concerns  of  professionals  and  trade 
unionists  that  cut  across  ethnic  lines,  and  in  the  multi-ethnic 
composition  of  secondary  school  and  university  classes.  Ethnic- 
ity, nonetheless,  continues  to  be  one  of  the  most  potent  factors 
affecting  political  behavior  in  Ghana.  For  this  reason,  ethni- 
cally based  political  parties  are  unconstitutional  under  the 
present  Fourth  Republic. 

Despite  the  cultural  differences  among  Ghana's  various  peo- 
ples, linguists  have  placed  Ghanaian  languages  in  one  or  the 
other  of  only  two  major  linguistic  subfamilies  of  the  Niger- 
Congo  language  family,  one  of  the  large  language  groups  in 
Africa.  These  are  the  Kwa  and  Gur  groups,  found  to  the  south 
and  north  of  the  Volta  River,  respectively.  The  Kwa  group, 
which  comprises  about  75  percent  of  the  country's  population, 
includes  the  Akan,  Ga-Adangbe,  and  Ewe.  The  Akan  are  fur- 
ther divided  into  the  Asante,  Fante,  Akwapim,  Akyem, 
Akwamu,  Ahanta,  Bono,  Nzema,  Kwahu,  and  Safwi.  The  Ga- 
Adangbe  people  and  language  group  include  the  Ga,  Adangbe, 
Ada,  and  Krobo  or  Kloli.  Even  the  Ewe,  who  constitute  a  single 
linguistic  group,  are  divided  into  the  Nkonya,  Tafi,  Logba,  Son- 
trokofi,  Lolobi,  and  Likpe.  North  of  the  Volta  River  are  the 
three  subdivisions  of  the  Gur-speaking  people.  These  are  the 
Gurma,  Grusi,  and  Mole-Dagbane.  Like  the  Kwa  subfamilies, 
further  divisions  exist  within  the  principal  Gur  groups. 

Any  one  group  may  be  distinguished  from  others  in  the 
same  linguistically  defined  category  or  subcategory,  even  when 
the  members  of  the  category  are  characterized  by  essentially 
the  same  social  institutions.  Each  has  a  historical  tradition  of 
group  identity,  if  nothing  else,  and,  usually,  of  political  auton- 
omy. In  some  cases,  however,  what  is  considered  a  single  unit 
for  census  and  other  purposes  may  have  been  divided  into 
identifiable  separate  groups  before  and  during  much  of  the 
colonial  period  and,  in  some  manner,  may  have  continued  to 
be  separate  after  independence. 

No  part  of  Ghana,  however,  is  ethnically  homogeneous. 
Urban  centers  are  the  most  ethnically  mixed  because  of  migra- 
tion to  towns  and  cities  by  those  in  search  of  employment. 
Rural  areas,  with  the  exception  of  cocoa-producing  areas  that 
have  attracted  migrant  labor,  tend  to  reflect  more  traditional 
population  distributions.  One  overriding  feature  of  the  coun- 
try's population  is  that  groups  to  the  south  who  are  closer  to 
the  Atlantic  coast  have  long  been  influenced  by  the  money 
economy,  Western  education,  and  Christianity,  whereas  Gur- 


81 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


speakers  to  the  north,  who  have  been  less  exposed  to  those 
influences,  have  come  under  Islamic  influence.  These  influ- 
ences were  not  pervasive  in  the  respective  regions,  however, 
nor  were  they  wholly  restricted  to  them. 

Language  Diversity 

More  than  100  languages  and  dialects  are  spoken  in  Ghana. 
In  view  of  these  linguistic  and  associated  cultural  differences, 
and,  as  a  result  of  the  country's  colonial  past,  English  has 
become  Ghana's  official  language.  It  is  used  for  all  government 
affairs,  large-scale  business  transactions,  educational  instruc- 
tion, and  in  national  radio  and  television  broadcasts.  In  fact, 
the  constitution  of  1969  required  that  members  of  parliament 
speak,  read,  and  understand  English.  In  an  effort  to  increase 
"grassroots  participation"  in  government  and  to  encourage 
non-English  speakers  to  run  for  elective  office,  however,  the 
1992  Consultative  Assembly  on  the  Constitution  recommended 
that  the  ability  to  communicate  in  English  no  longer  be 
required  of  future  members  of  parliament.  In  the  mid-1980s, 
the  Ministry  of  Education  also  encouraged  teachers  to  use  local 
languages  for  instruction  during  the  first  six  years  of  formal 
education.  These  changes,  however,  have  not  lessened  the 
importance  of  English  in  Ghanaian  society. 

Although  Fante-Twi  (a  major  Akan  language),  Ga,  and  Ewe 
are  the  most  important  Kwa  languages  spoken  in  the  south, 
three  subdivisions  of  the  Gur  branch — Mole-Dagbane,  Grusi, 
and  Gurma — dominate  the  northern  region.  Hausa,  a  lan- 
guage of  northern  Nigeria  which  spread  throughout  West 
Africa  through  trade,  is  also  understood  by  some  inhabitants  in 
the  northeastern  part  of  the  country.  In  northwestern  Ghana, 
among  the  Dagari-speaking  people  and  around  frontier  towns 
in  western  Brong-Ahafo,  various  dialects  of  the  Mande  lan- 
guage are  spoken.  Akan,  Ewe,  Ga,  Nzema,  Dagbane,  and  Hausa 
are  the  country's  principal  indigenous  languages  and  are  used 
in  radio  and  television  programming. 

The  literary  tradition  of  northern  Ghana  has  its  roots  in 
Islam,  while  the  literature  of  the  south  was  influenced  by  Chris- 
dan  missionaries.  As  a  result  of  European  influence,  a  number 
of  Ghanaian  groups  have  developed  writing  systems  based  on 
Latin  script,  and  several  indigenous  languages  have  produced  a 
rich  body  of  literature.  The  principal  written  Ghanaian  lan- 
guages are  the  Twi  dialects  of  Asante,  Akwapim,  and  Fante. 
Other  written  languages  are  Nzema,  Ewe,  Dagbane,  Ga,  and 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Kasena  (a  Grusi  language).  Most  publications  in  the  country, 
however,  are  written  in  English. 

Major  Ethnic  Groups 

On  the  basis  of  language  and  culture,  historical  geographers 
and  cultural  anthropologists  classify  the  indigenous  people  of 
Ghana  into  five  major  groups.  These  are  the  Akan,  the  Ewe,  the 
Guan,  the  Mole-Dagbane  and  related  peoples  of  the  north,  and 
the  Ga-Adangbe. 

The  Akan  Group 

The  Akan  people  occupy  practically  the  whole  of  Ghana 
south  and  west  of  the  Black  Volta  River.  Historical  accounts  sug- 
gest that  Akan  groups  migrated  from  the  north  to  occupy  the 
forest  and  coastal  areas  of  the  south  as  early  as  the  thirteenth 
century.  Some  of  the  Akan  ended  up  in  the  eastern  section  of 
Cote  d'lvoire,  where  they  created  the  Baule  community. 

When  Europeans  arrived  at  the  coast  in  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury, the  Akan  were  established  there.  The  typical  political  unit 
was  the  small  state  under  the  headship  of  an  elder  from  one  of 
the  seven  or  eight  clans  (see  Glossary)  that  composed  Akan 
society.  From  these  units  emerged  several  powerful  states,  of 
which  the  oldest  is  thought  to  be  Bono  (also  called  Brong).  As 
a  result  of  military  conquests  and  partial  assimilation  of  weaker 
groups,  well-known  political  entities,  such  as  Akwamu,  Asante 
(also  seen  as  Ashanti — see  Glossary),  Akyem,  Denkyira,  and 
Fante  emerged  before  the  close  of  the  seventeenth  century. 
Asante,  for  example,  continued  to  expand  throughout  the 
eighteenth  century  and  survived  as  an  imperial  power  until  the 
end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  when  it  succumbed  to  British 
rule  (see  The  Precolonial  Period,  ch.  1). 

The  coastal  Akan  (Fante)  were  the  first  to  have  relations  with 
Europeans.  As  a  result  of  long  association,  these  groups 
absorbed  aspects  of  British  culture  and  language.  For  example, 
it  became  customary  among  these  people  to  accept  British 
names  as  family  names. 

The  primary  form  of  Akan  social  organization  is  the 
extended  family  or  the  abusua — the  basic  unit  in  a  society 
based  on  matriclans  (see  Glossary).  Through  the  exogamous 
matriclan  system,  local  identity  and  individual  status,  inherit- 
ance, succession  to  wealth  and  to  political  offices,  and  even 
basic  relations  within  the  village  community  are  determined. 
Every  lineage  (see  Glossary)  is  a  corporate  group  with  its  own 


83 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

identity,  group  solidarity,  exclusive  property,  and  symbols.  The 
ownership  of  a  symbolic  carved  chair  or  stool,  usually  named 
after  the  female  founder  of  the  matriclan,  became  the  means 
through  which  individuals  traced  their  ancestry.  These  lineages 
have  segmented  into  branches,  each  led  by  an  elder,  headman, 
or  chief,  but  a  branch,  although  it  possesses  a  stool,  is  not  an 
autonomous  political  or  social  unit.  Possession  of  a  ritually 
important  stool  is  seen  as  vital,  not  only  to  the  existence  of  each 
abusua  but  to  the  matriclan  as  a  whole. 

Despite  the  matrilineal  focus  of  Akan  societies,  most  tradi- 
tional leadership  positions  are  held  by  men.  Male  succession  to 
inherited  positions  is,  however,  determined  by  relationship  to 
mothers  and  sisters.  Consequently,  a  man's  valuable  property  is 
passed  on  not  to  his  children,  but  to  his  brother  or  his  sister's 
son.  A  man  may  also  be  expected  to  support  the  children  of  a 
maternal  relative,  whether  deceased  or  alive,  an  expectation 
that  may  conflict  with  the  interests  of  his  own  children.  Matri- 
lineal (see  Glossary  under  "matrilineage")  succession  to  prop- 
erty has  been  the  cause  of  much  litigation.  There  have  been 
instances  of  wives  and  children  turning  to  the  courts  for 
redress.  In  1986  the  government  passed  a  number  of  laws  that 
sought  to  bring  the  traditions  of  inheritance  in  line  with 
changes  that  had  occurred  in  the  country.  These  laws,  which 
included  the  Intestate  Succession  Law,  the  Customary  Mar- 
riage and  Divorce  (Registration)  Law,  the  Administration  of 
Estate  (Amendment)  Law,  and  the  Head  of  Family  (Account- 
ability) Law,  recognized  the  nuclear  family  as  the  prime  eco- 
nomic unit.  Provision  was  made,  however,  for  the  identification 
of  collective  properties  that  belonged  to  the  extended  family. 

Notwithstanding  the  1986  legislation,  the  matriclan  system 
of  the  Akan  continued  to  be  economically  and  politically 
important.  Each  lineage  controlled  the  land  farmed  by  its 
members,  functioned  as  a  religious  unit  in  the  veneration  of  its 
ancestors,  supervised  marriages,  and  settled  internal  disputes 
among  its  members  (see  Traditional  Religion,  this  ch.).  It  was 
from  the  lineages  and  the  associations  they  cultivated  that  the 
village,  town,  and  even  the  state  emerged.  The  Akan  state, 
therefore,  comprehended  several  kin-based  units,  one  of 
which,  usually  the  most  prominent  lineage,  provided  the  para- 
mount chief,  who  exercised  at  least  some  authority  over  incor- 
porated groups.  Every  one  of  the  incorporated  groups, 
lineages,  or  territorial  units  had  some  autonomy  under  its  own 
headman,  chief,  or  elders.  In  any  case,  all  chiefs  were  subject  to 


84 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


removal  from  office  if  they  acted  in  any  manner  that  alienated 
a  substantial  number  of  people,  especially  influential  ones. 

The  relative  homogeneity  of  Akan  cultures,  languages,  and 
authority  structures  has  not  led  to  political  unity;  the  most 
important  conflicts  of  the  Akan  in  precolonial  and  colonial 
times,  for  example,  were  with  other  Akan  groups.  This  is 
understandable  if  the  state  is  seen  as  the  arena  of  political  life 
and  as  a  set  of  institutions  concerned  with  power,  especially  for 
internal  regulation,  and  for  the  defense  of  its  component 
members.  The  development  of  the  Asante  Empire,  for  exam- 
ple, was  largely  at  the  expense  of  the  independence  of  the  sur- 
rounding Akan,  who  were  quick  to  reassert  their  autonomy, 
especially  after  1896,  when  Asante  was  defeated  and  its  king, 
the  asantehene  (king  of  Asante),  was  exiled  to  the  Seychelles  by 
the  British.  In  the  struggle  for  independence  and  in  the  period 
since  then,  political  alignments  have  followed  local  interests 
rather  than  any  conception  of  Akan  ethnic  unity. 

The  Ewe 

The  Ewe  occupy  southeastern  Ghana  and  the  southern  parts 
of  neighboring  Togo  and  Benin.  On  the  west,  the  Volta  sepa- 
rates the  Ewe  from  the  Ga-Adangbe,  Ga,  and  Akan.  Subdivi- 
sions of  the  Ewe  include  the  Anglo  (Anlo),  Bey  (Be),  and  Gen 
on  the  coast,  and  the  Peki,  Ho,  Kpando,  Tori,  and  Ave  in  the 
interior.  Oral  tradition  suggests  that  the  Ewe  immigrated  into 
Ghana  before  the  mid-fifteenth  century.  Although  the  Ewe 
have  been  described  as  a  single  language  group,  there  is  con- 
siderable dialectic  variation.  Some  of  these  dialects  are  mutu- 
ally intelligible,  but  only  with  difficulty. 

Unlike  the  political  and  social  organization  of  the  Akan, 
where  matrilineal  rule  prevails,  the  Ewe  are  essentially  a  patri- 
lineal (see  Glossary  under  "patrilineage")  people.  The  founder 
of  a  community  became  the  chief  and  was  usually  succeeded  by 
his  paternal  relatives.  The  largest  independent  political  unit 
was  a  chiefdom,  the  head  of  which  was  essentially  a  ceremonial 
figure  who  was  assisted  by  a  council  of  elders.  Chiefdoms 
ranged  in  population  from  a  few  hundred  people  in  one  or  two 
villages  to  several  thousand  in  a  chiefdom  with  a  large  number 
of  villages  and  surrounding  countryside.  Unlike  the  Asante 
among  the  Akan,  no  Ewe  chiefdom  gained  hegemonic  power 
over  its  neighbor.  The  rise  of  Ewe  nationalism  in  both  Ghana 
and  Togo  was  more  of  a  reaction  to  the  May  1956  plebiscite 


85 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


that  partitioned  Eweland  between  the  Gold  Coast  and  Togo 
than  to  any  sense  of  overriding  ethnic  unity. 

Substantial  differences  in  local  economies  were  characteris- 
tic of  the  Ewe.  Most  Ewe  were  farmers  who  kept  some  livestock, 
and  there  was  some  craft  specialization.  On  the  coast  and 
immediately  inland,  fishing  was  important,  and  local  variations 
in  economic  activities  permitted  a  great  deal  of  trade  between 
one  community  and  another,  carried  out  chiefly  by  women. 

The  Guan 

The  Guan  are  believed  to  have  begun  to  migrate  from  the 
Mossi  region  of  modern  Burkina  around  A.D.  1000.  Moving 
gradually  through  the  Volta  valley  in  a  southerly  direction,  they 
created  settlements  along  the  Black  Volta,  throughout  the 
Afram  Plains,  in  the  Volta  Gorge,  and  in  the  Akwapim  Hills 
before  moving  farther  south  onto  the  coastal  plains.  Some 
scholars  postulate  that  the  wide  distribution  of  the  Guan  sug- 
gests that  they  were  the  Neolithic  population  of  the  region. 
Later  migrations  by  other  groups  such  as  the  Akan,  Ewe,  and 
Ga-Adangbe  into  Guan-settled  areas  would  then  have  led  to  the 
development  of  Guan-speaking  enclaves  along  the  Volta  and 
within  the  coastal  plains.  The  Guan  have  been  heavily  influ- 
enced by  their  neighbors.  The  Efutu,  a  subgroup  of  the  Guan, 
for  example,  continue  to  speak  Guan  dialects,  but  have 
adopted  (with  modifications)  the  Fante  version  of  some  Akan 
institutions  and  the  use  of  some  Fante  words  in  their  rituals.  As 
far  as  the  other  Guan  subgroups  are  concerned,  the  Anum- 
Boso  speak  a  local  Ewe  dialect,  whereas  the  Larteh  and  Kyere- 
pong  have  customs  similar  to  Akwapim  groups. 

Constituting  about  a  quarter  of  the  Guan,  the  Gonja  to  the 
north  have  also  been  influenced  by  other  groups.  The  Gonja 
are  ruled  by  members  of  a  dynasty,  probably  Mande  in  origin. 
The  area  is  peopled  by  a  variety  of  groups,  some  of  which  do 
not  speak  Guan.  The  ruling  dynasty,  however,  does  speak 
Guan,  as  do  substantial  numbers  of  commoners.  Although  nei- 
ther the  rulers  nor  most  of  the  commoners  are  Muslims,  a 
group  of  Muslims  accompanied  the  Mande  invaders  and  have 
since  occupied  a  special  position  as  scribes  and  traders. 

The  Gonja  founded  one  of  several  northern  kingdoms  (see 
The  Precolonial  Period,  ch.  1).  In  the  eighteenth  century,  they, 
like  their  neighbors,  were  defeated  by  the  expanding  Asante 
Empire.  Gonja  became  part  of  the  British  Northern  Territories 
after  the  fall  of  Asante.  Even  though  long-distance  commerce 


86 


Fishermen  offer  their  daily  catch  for  sale  on  a  beach  near  Accra 

Courtesy  James  Sanders 


led  to  the  development  of  major  markets,  the  Gonja  continued 
to  be  subsistence  farmers  and  migrant  workers. 

The  Mole-Dagbane  and  Related  Peoples  of  the  North 

Apart  from  the  Guan-speaking  Gonja,  the  Kyokosi  or  Cho- 
kosi  (an  Akan-speaking  fragment),  and  the  Mande-speaking 
Busanga  in  the  northeasternmost  part  of  Ghana,  the  ethnic 
groups  to  the  north  of  the  Black  Volta  speak  Gur  or  Voltaic  lan- 
guages of  the  Niger-Congo  language  family.  Three  subgroups 
of  Gur  languages — the  Mole-Dagbane  (sometimes  called 
Mossi-Grunshi),  Gurma,  and  Grusi — are  represented  in  this 
region.  Of  the  three  Gur  subfamilies,  Mole-Dagbane  is  by  far 
the  largest,  being  spoken  by  about  15  percent  of  the  nation's 
population.  Its  speakers  are  culturally  the  most  varied;  they 
include  the  Nanumba,  Dagomba,  Mamprusi,  Wala,  Builsa, 
Frafra,  Talensi,  and  Kusase. 

For  centuries,  the  area  inhabited  by  the  Gur  has  been  the 
scene  of  movements  of  people  engaged  in  conquest,  expan- 
sion, and  north-south  and  east-west  trade.  For  this  reason,  a 
considerable  degree  of  heterogeneity,  particularly  of  political 
structure,  developed  here. 

The  structure  of  many  small  groups,  varied  as  they  are,  sug- 
gests that  most  Gur-speakers  once  lived  in  small,  autonomous 
communities  and  that  the  links  among  these  communities  were 
provided  by  kinship  ties,  which  in  their  larger  extensions  cut 
across  community  boundaries,  and  by  intermarriage.  The 
salient  figure  was  not  political  but  ritual — it  was  the  priest 
(tendaana;  a  Mole-Dagbane  term)  of  the  earth  cult  and  shrine. 


87 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Although  primarily  a  religious  figure,  the  tendaana's  influence 
was  keenly  felt  in  kin-group  and  community  decision  making. 

In  some  cases  (for  example,  that  of  the  Talensi),  an  indepen- 
dent community  or  chiefdom  was  aware  that  others  like  it 
shared  the  same  culture  and  social  structure,  and  there  were 
occasional  common  rituals  that  brought  independent  commu- 
nities together.  In  other  cases  (for  example,  the  Dagaba),  polit- 
ical and  cultural  boundaries  were  not  sharp,  and  there  was  no 
sense  that  an  ethnic  group  included  some  communities  and 
excluded  others,  although  shifting  distinctions  were  made 
based  on  various  cultural  traits.  In  the  case  of  the  Dagaba,  the 
most  important  or  recurrent  of  these  distinctions  seemed  to 
be,  and  in  the  mid-twentieth  century  continued  to  be,  whether 
inheritance  was  exclusively  determined  in  the  patrilineal  line 
or,  at  least  in  part,  followed  the  matrilineal  line. 

In  a  few  cases,  some  Mole-Dagbane  people  developed  societ- 
ies of  larger  scale  under  a  ruling  dynasty.  These  included  the 
Dagomba,  Mamprusi,  and  Gonja,  who,  like  the  Akan  to  the 
south,  were  known  to  have  founded  centralized  states.  Rulers 
of  the  centralized  Mole-Dagbane  societies  were  believed  to  be 
related  to  those  of  the  Mossi  kingdoms  of  Burkina  and  the 
smaller  Nanumba  kingdoms  of  Ghana.  Historical  research  sug- 
gests that  migrants  imposed  their  rule  on  peoples  already  set- 
tled in  the  area.  In  some  cases,  these  migrants  extended  their 
rule  to  other  groups,  at  least  for  a  time.  Thus,  many  of  the 
Gurma-speaking  Konkomba  were  subject  to  Dagomba  control. 
The  ruling  groups  still  maintain  a  clear  sense  of  their  own  iden- 
tity and  some  cultural  and  linguistic  peculiarities,  but  in  gen- 
eral they  speak  the  local  language. 

The  Ga-Adangbe 

The  Ga-Adangbe  people  inhabit  the  Accra  Plains.  The  Adan- 
gbe  are  found  to  the  east,  the  Ga  groups  to  the  west,  of  the 
Accra  coastlands.  Although  both  languages  are  derived  from  a 
common  proto-Ga-Adangbe  ancestral  language,  modern  Ga 
and  Adangbe  are  mutually  unintelligible.  The  modern  Adan- 
gbe  include  the  people  of  Shai,  La,  Ningo,  Kpone,  Osudoku, 
Krobo,  Gbugble,  and  Ada,  who  speak  different  dialects.  The  Ga 
also  include  the  Ga-Mashie  groups  occupying  neighborhoods 
in  the  central  part  of  Accra,  and  other  Ga-speakers  who 
migrated  from  Akwamu,  Anecho  in  Togo,  Akwapim,  and  sur- 
rounding areas. 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Debates  persist  about  the  origins  of  the  Ga-Adangbe  people. 
One  school  of  thought  suggests  that  the  proto-Ga-Adangbe 
people  came  from  somewhere  east  of  the  Accra  plains,  while 
another  suggests  a  distant  locale  beyond  the  West  African  coast. 
In  spite  of  such  historical  and  linguistic  theories,  it  is  agreed 
that  the  people  were  settled  in  the  plains  by  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury. Both  the  Ga  and  the  Adangbe  were  influenced  by  their 
neighbors.  For  example,  both  borrowed  some  of  their  vocabu- 
lary, especially  words  relating  to  economic  activities  and  state- 
craft, from  the  Guan.  The  Ewe  are  also  believed  to  have 
influenced  the  Adangbe. 

Despite  the  archaeological  evidence  that  proto-Ga-Adangbe 
speakers  relied  on  millet  and  yam  cultivation,  the  modern  Ga 
reside  in  what  used  to  be  fishing  communities.  Today,  such 
former  Ga  communities  as  Labadi  and  Old  Accra  are  neighbor- 
hoods of  the  national  capital  of  Accra.  This  explains  why,  in 
1960,  when  the  national  enumeration  figures  showed  the  eth- 
nic composition  of  the  country's  population,  more  than  75  per- 
cent of  the  Ga  were  described  as  living  in  urban  centers.  The 
presence  of  major  industrial,  commercial,  and  governmental 
institutions  in  the  city,  as  well  as  increasing  migration  of  other 
people  into  the  area,  has  not  prevented  the  Ga  people  from 
maintaining  aspects  of  their  traditional  culture. 

The  Central  Togo 

The  Central  Togo  groups  are  found  to  the  north  of  Ewe 
country  in  the  Akwapim-Togo  Ranges.  These  groups  are  some- 
times called  the  Togo  remnants,  on  the  assumption  that  they 
represent  what  is  left  of  a  once  more  widespread  people  who 
were  absorbed  either  by  the  Akan  or  by  the  Ewe.  Although 
some  of  the  Central  Togo  groups  are  indigenous  to  the  area, 
many  are  believed  to  have  come  to  the  mountain  location  for 
refuge  from  the  numerous  wars  that  were  fought  after  the  end 
of  the  seventeenth  century  by  the  Gonja,  Asante,  Dahomeans, 
and  Akwamu.  The  refugees  found  protection  and  land  and, 
therefore,  settled  in  the  ranges.  Descent  and  inheritance  seem 
to  be  patrilineal,  and  each  group  is  autonomously  organized 
under  a  chief. 

The  traditional  mode  of  economic  activity  among  the  Cen- 
tral Togo  people  was  the  cultivation  of  rice,  but  today  a  substan- 
tial number  of  the  people  are  engaged  in  cocoa  farming.  More 
than  any  Kwa  or  Gur  group,  the  Central  Togo  people  define 
themselves  as  Christian.  A  relatively  high  level  of  literacy  and 


89 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

school  attendance  and  a  high  proportion  of  professionals  and 
technical  workers  characterize  the  Central  Togo  groups. 

Social  Organization  and  Social  Change 

The  essential  characteristic  of  the  Ghanaian  social  system  is 
its  dual  but  interrelated  nature.  Even  though  the  majority  of 
the  population  still  lives  in  rural  areas  and  observes  ancestral 
customs  and  practices,  the  process  of  modernization  associated 
with  urban  life  has,  nonetheless,  affected  all  Ghanaians'  social 
behavior  and  values.  Peoples,  ideas,  goods,  and  services  flow 
constantly  between  urban  and  rural  areas,  blurring  the  distinc- 
tion between  so-called  traditional  and  modern  life.  Relation- 
ships within  traditional  society  are  based  on  family 
membership,  inherited  status,  and  ancestral  beliefs.  In  modern 
society,  relationships  are  determined  by  achieved  status,  for- 
malized education,  membership  in  professional  associations, 
and  ethnic  affiliation.  Contemporary  society,  however,  is 
grafted  onto  traditional  roots,  and  although  traditional  social 
relationships  have  often  been  partially  transformed  to  fit  the 
needs  of  modern  life,  they  continue  to  endure.  The  result  is 
that,  even  those  who  live  primarily  in  the  modern  urban  setting 
are  still  bound  to  traditional  society  through  the  kinship  system 
and  are  held  to  the  responsibilities  that  such  associations 
entail. 

Traditional  Patterns  of  Social  Relations 

The  extended  family  system  is  the  hub  around  which  tradi- 
tional social  organization  revolves.  This  unilineal  descent 
group  functions  under  customary  law.  It  is  a  corporate  group 
with  definite  identity  and  membership  that  controls  property, 
the  application  of  social  sanctions,  and  the  practice  of  religious 
rituals.  Many  local  variations  exist  within  the  general  frame- 
work of  the  lineage  system.  In  some  ethnic  groups,  the  individ- 
ual's loyalty  to  his  or  her  lineage  overrides  all  other  loyalties;  in 
other  groups,  a  person  marrying  into  the  group,  though  never 
becoming  a  complete  member  of  the  spouse's  lineage,  adopts 
its  interests. 

Among  the  matrilineal  Akan,  members  of  the  extended  fam- 
ily include  the  man's  mother,  his  maternal  uncles  and  aunts, 
his  sisters  and  their  children,  and  his  brothers.  A  man's  chil- 
dren and  those  of  his  brothers  belong  to  the  families  of  their 
respective  mothers.  Family  members  may  occupy  one  or  several 


90 


An  example  of  domestic 
architecture  of  the  Kasena 
people  at  Nakong,  far 
northern  Ghana 
Courtesy  life  in  general 
(Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper 
Le  Van) 


houses  in  the  same  village.  The  wife  and  her  children  tradition- 
ally reside  at  their  maternal  house  where  she  prepares  her 
food,  usually  the  late  evening  meal,  to  be  carried  to  her  hus- 
band at  his  maternal  house.  Polygamy  as  a  conjugal  arrange- 
ment is  on  the  decline  for  economic  reasons;  but  where  it  has 
been  practiced,  visitation  schedules  with  the  husband  were 
planned  for  the  wives. 

For  the  patrilineal  and  double-descent  peoples  of  the  north, 
the  domestic  group  often  consists  of  two  or  more  brothers  with 
their  wives  and  children  who  usually  occupy  a  single  home- 
stead with  a  separate  room  for  each  wife.  Also,  the  largest 
household  among  the  patrilineal  Ewe  includes  some  or  all  of 
the  sons  and  grandsons  of  one  male  ancestor  together  with 
their  wives,  children,  and  unmarried  sisters. 

Irrespective  of  the  composition  of  the  family  in  either  matri- 
lineal  or  patrilineal  societies,  each  family  unit  is  usually  headed 
by  a  senior  male  or  headman  who  might  either  be  the  found- 
ing member  of  the  family  or  have  inherited  that  position.  He 
acts  in  council  with  other  significant  members  of  the  family  in 
the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  unit.  Elderly  female  mem- 
bers of  matrilineal  descent  groups  may  be  consulted  in  the 
decision-making  process  on  issues  affecting  the  family,  but 
often  the  men  wield  more  influence. 


91 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Family  elders  supervise  the  allocation  of  land  and  function 
as  arbitrators  in  domestic  quarrels;  they  also  oversee  naming 
ceremonies  for  infants,  supervise  marriages,  and  arrange 
funerals.  As  custodians  of  the  political  and  spiritual  authority  of 
the  unit,  the  headman  and  his  elders  ensure  the  security  of  the 
family.  These  obligations  that  bind  the  group  together  also 
grant  its  members  the  right  of  inheritance,  the  privilege  to 
receive  capital  (either  in  the  form  of  cattle  or  fishing  nets)  to 
begin  new  businesses,  and  the  guarantee  of  a  proper  funeral 
and  burial  upon  death.  The  extended  family,  therefore,  func- 
tions as  a  mutual  aid  society  in  which  each  member  has  both 
the  obligation  to  help  others  and  the  right  to  receive  assistance 
from  it  in  case  of  need. 

To  ensure  that  such  obligations  and  privileges  are  properly 
carried  out,  the  family  also  functions  as  a  socializing  agency. 
The  moral  and  ethical  instruction  of  children  is  the  responsi- 
bility of  the  extended  family.  Traditional  values  may  be  trans- 
mitted to  the  young  through  proverbs,  songs,  stories,  rituals, 
and  initiations  associated  with  rites  of  passage.  Among  the 
Krobo,  Ga,  and  Akan,  puberty  rites  for  girls  offer  important 
occasions  for  instructing  young  adults.  These  methods  of  com- 
munication constitute  the  informal  mode  of  education  in  the 
traditional  society.  It  is,  therefore,  through  the  family  that  the 
individual  acquires  recognition  and  social  status.  As  a  result, 
the  general  society  sees  the  individual's  actions  as  reflecting  the 
moral  and  ethical  values  of  the  family.  Debts  accrued  by  him 
are  assumed  by  the  family  upon  a  member's  death,  and,  there- 
fore, his  material  gains  are  theirs  to  inherit. 

Land  is  ordinarily  the  property  of  the  lineage.  Family  land  is 
thought  of  as  belonging  to  the  ancestors  or  local  deities  and  is 
held  in  trust  for  them.  As  a  result,  such  lands  are  administered 
by  the  lineage  elders,  worked  by  the  members  of  the  kinship 
group,  and  inherited  only  by  members  of  that  unit.  Although 
sectors  of  such  land  may  be  leased  to  others  for  seasonal  agri- 
cultural production,  the  land  remains  within  the  family  and 
usually  is  not  sold.  However,  it  is  not  unusual  for  a  man  to  set 
aside  a  portion  of  his  acquired  property  as  "reasonable  gifts" 
for  his  children  or  wife,  as  has  been  the  case,  particularly, 
among  matrilineal  groups.  For  such  gifts  to  be  recognized,  tra- 
dition requires  that  the  presentation  be  made  public  during 
the  lifetime  of  the  donor,  allowing  the  recipient  to  hold  the 
public  as  witnesses  should  the  gift  be  contested  afterward,  espe- 
cially following  the  death  of  the  donor. 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


A  network  of  mutual  obligations  also  joins  families  to  chiefs 
and  others  in  the  general  community.  Traditional  elders  and 
chiefs  act  for  the  ancestors  as  custodians  of  the  community. 
Thus,  in  both  patrilineal  and  matrilineal  societies,  and  from 
the  small  village  to  the  large  town,  the  position  of  the  chief  and 
that  of  the  queen  mother  are  recognized. 

The  chief  embodies  traditional  authority.  Chiefs  are  usually 
selected  from  the  senior  members  of  the  lineage  or  several  lin- 
eages that  are  considered  to  be  among  the  founders  of  the 
community  or  ethnic  group.  Chiefs  have  extensive  executive 
and  judicial  authority.  Decisions  on  critical  issues,  such  as  those 
made  by  family  elders,  are  based  on  wide  discussions  and  con- 
sultations with  adult  representative  groups  of  both  sexes.  Tradi- 
tionally, legislation  has  not  been  a  primary  issue,  for  the  rules 
of  life  are  largely  set  by  custom.  Discussions  are  usually  focused 
on  the  expediency  of  concrete  actions  within  the  framework  of 
customary  rules.  Decisions,  when  taken  by  chiefs,  are  normally 
taken  by  chiefs-in-council  and  not  by  lone  dictatorial  flat.  The 
legitimacy  of  traditional  authority,  therefore,  has  usually  been 
based  on  public  consensus  sanctioned  by  custom. 

Although  chiefs  or  other  authority  figures  might  come  from 
designated  families  or  clans,  the  interest  of  the  common  peo- 
ple is  never  ignored.  Where  the  process  of  selecting  as  well  as 
of  advising  chiefs  is  not  given  directly  to  the  populace,  it  has 
often  been  vested  in  representatives  of  kin  or  local  residence 
groups,  elders,  or  other  types  of  councils.  Among  the  Akan,  for 
example,  the  asafo  (traditional  men's  associations,  originally 
fighting  companies — see  Glossary)  have  played  important  roles 
as  political  action  groups  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  com- 
mon people.  The  priests  of  some  local  shrines  also  acquired 
substantial  authority  that  helped  balance  the  powers  of  local 
chiefs.  It  was  such  checks  and  balances  within  the  traditional 
scheme  of  authority  relations,  especially  among  the  Akan,  that 
led  the  British  anthropologist,  Robert  S.  Rattray,  to  refer  to  the 
traditional  political  structure  as  a  "domestic  democracy." 

Social  Change 

Needless  to  say,  contact  with  Europeans,  Christians,  and 
Muslims  as  well  as  colonialism  greatly  affected  and  modified 
indigenous  customs,  institutions,  and  values.  A  good  example 
of  this  process  is  the  office  of  local  chief.  British  influence  has 
been  present  for  generations,  and  by  the  time  of  independence 
in  1957,  the  British  had  exercised  substantial  political  authority 


93 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


over  certain  southern  regions  for  more  than  a  century.  The 
office  of  the  chief,  traditionally  used  to  manage  the  affairs  of 
the  village  community  and  the  ethnic  group,  was  retained  by 
the  British  as  one  of  the  most  important  agencies  through 
which  the  populace  received  colonial  instructions.  As  the  archi- 
tect of  the  British  colonial  policy  of  indirect  rule,  Frederick 
Lugard  argued  in  his  Dual  Mandate  in  British  Tropical  Africa  that 
the  preservation  of  the  office  of  the  traditional  chief  was  cost- 
effective  because  it  presented  the  appearance  of  continuity  in 
the  changing  political  environment.  As  was  the  case  in  many 
British  colonies  in  Africa,  traditional  chiefs  in  Ghana  were 
allowed  to  hold  court  in  matters  relating  to  traditional  customs. 
They  also  controlled  some  local  lands  for  agricultural  produc- 
tion, even  when  the  timber  and  mineral  resources  were 
exploited  by  the  colonial  government. 

Chiefs  continued  to  be  appointed  by  their  own  people  dur- 
ing colonial  times,  but  native  administrators  became  increas- 
ingly accountable  to  the  colonial  government.  Inevitably,  the 
presence  of  other  colonial  agents,  such  as  the  small  but  effec- 
tive colonial  police  and  the  resident  commissioners,  influenced 
the  power  of  chiefs.  Also,  with  the  abolition  of  slavery,  the 
imposition  of  colonial  taxes,  and  the  establishment  of  bureau- 
cratic and  judicial  procedures,  the  social  relationships  that  had 
existed  in  the  precolonial  period  between  chiefs  and  people 
were  altered — at  times  radically  and  always  permanently.  Some 
individuals  and  groups  lost  power,  while  others  gained  influ- 
ence as  the  British  abolished  some  traditional  functions  and 
established  new  ones. 

A  combination  of  factors  affected  customary  notions  about 
the  exercise  of  power — colonial  rule,  Christianity,  the  money 
economy,  and  Western-style  education.  Christian  missionaries 
established  the  first  Western  schools  (see  Education,  this  ch.). 
Products  of  this  formal  school  system  became  the  new  elite 
class  of  literate  graduates  who  functioned  as  intermediaries 
between  the  indigenous  people  and  the  colonial  power  and, 
later,  the  world  at  large.  Freed  from  lineage  property  as  the 
sole  means  of  attaining  wealth  and  social  status,  the  new  elite 
developed  new  forms  of  social  institutions  and  patterns  of 
interaction.  Such  modes  of  behavior  associated  with  modern- 
ization and  urbanization  and  acquired  through  formal  educa- 
tion and  the  formal  market  economy  introduced  certain  value 
systems  that  were  distinctly  different  from  those  within  the  tra- 
ditional culture. 


94 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Of  course,  Western  knowledge,  technology,  and  organiza- 
tions were  not  uniformly  introduced  throughout  the  country. 
They  appeared  first  and  in  most  concentrated  form  on  the 
coast  or  in  the  Gold  Coast  Colony,  where  European  influence 
was  greatest  and  where  many  schools  were  established  com- 
pared with  Asante  and  other  northern  regions.  Consequently, 
the  coastal  and  southern  peoples  were  the  greatest  beneficia- 
ries of  the  new  economic  and  social  opportunities  and,  con- 
versely, suffered  the  greatest  social  upheaval — especially  in 
conflicts  between  the  Western-educated  Africans  and  their  tra- 
ditional chiefs.  Traditional  society  adapted  with  particular  swift- 
ness to  life  in  urban  areas,  in  part  because  of  the  concentration 
of  economic  development  and  social  infrastructure  in  such 
areas.  The  pace  of  change  intensified  in  1952  when  Kwame 
Nkrumah,  the  first  African-born  prime  minister  of  the  Gold 
Coast,  introduced  the  Accelerated  Development  Plan  for  Edu- 
cation (see  The  Education  System,  this  ch.). 

The  impact  of  the  urban  region  on  rural,  traditional  life  has 
been  great.  Migrations  by  Ghanaians  from  rural  areas  to  urban 
centers  either  by  those  in  search  of  work  or  for  the  pure  enjoy- 
ment of  urban  conditions  greatly  increased  after  1969  (see 
Population  Distribution,  this  ch.).  The  result  was  a  decline  in 
rural  agricultural  productivity  and  an  increased  dependence 
on  urban  wage-earners  by  extended  family  relatives.  What  has 
been  described  as  "rural  dependency  on  the  urban  wage- 
earner"  was  acceptable  to  those  within  the  traditional  system, 
who  saw  the  individual  as  socially  important  because  he  contin- 
ued to  function  in  a  matrix  of  kin  and  personal  relationships 
and  obligations,  because  his  social  identity  could  not  be  sepa- 
rated from  that  of  his  lineage,  and  because  the  wealth  or  posi- 
tions attained  could  be  shared  by,  or  would  benefit,  all 
members  of  the  extended  family.  Such  a  position,  however, 
contradicted  the  Western  view  of  the  individual  as  a  free  and 
separate  social  agent  whose  legal  obligations  were  largely  con- 
tractual rather  than  kin-based  and  whose  relationships  with 
other  people  depended  on  individual  actions  and  interests. 
The  very  difficult  economic  conditions  of  the  1970s  brought 
even  more  pressure  to  bear  on  the  relationship  between  tradi- 
tional and  urban  values;  nonetheless,  the  modern  and  the  tra- 
ditional societies  continued  to  exist  side  by  side,  and 
individuals  continued  to  adapt  themselves  to  the  requirements 
of  each. 


95 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 
Urban  Society 

In  1960,  23.1  percent  of  the  population  of  Ghana  resided  in 
urban  centers.  The  figure  rose  to  28  percent  in  1970,  32  per- 
cent according  to  the  1984  census  report,  and  an  estimated  33 
percent  in  1994.  The  census  figures  show  that  while  a  majority 
of  Ghanaians  still  live  in  rural  areas,  larger  towns  and  cities 
continue  to  attract  more  immigrants  than  small  ones.  There  is 
a  high  correlation  between  both  the  economic  well-being  of 
the  individual  and  his  or  her  educational  level,  and  the  ten- 
dency to  migrate.  A  large  number  of  migrants  come  from  areas 
immediately  adjacent  to  urban  areas.  Urban  populations  are 
therefore  multiethnic  in  character.  Even  in  this  multiethnic 
urban  environment,  however,  ethnic  associations  play  impor- 
tant social  roles — from  the  initial  reception  of  new  migrants  to 
the  burial  of  urban  residents. 

Formed  by  people  from  the  same  village,  district,  region,  or 
ethnic  background,  ethnic  associations  in  urban  centers  func- 
tion like  extended  families  in  which  membership  entails  obliga- 
tions and  benefits.  Apart  from  the  obvious  assistance  that  such 
associations  may  render — such  as  introducing  newcomers  to 
the  urban  environment,  organizing  credit  unions,  or  helping 
with  weddings  and  funeral  activities — associations  may  also 
contribute  to  the  development  of  their  home  areas.  For  exam- 
ple, urban  residents  from  towns  and  villages  in  the  Kwahu  Pla- 
teau area  are  known  throughout  Ghana  for  their  mutual  aid 
societies.  Through  their  fund-raising  activities,  Kwahu  associa- 
tions have  contributed  to  school  building  construction,  rural 
electrification,  and  general  beautification  projects  in  their  vil- 
lages. 

In  urban  centers,  the  degree  of  traditionalism  or  modernism 
demonstrated  by  an  individual  is  determined  to  a  large  extent 
by  the  length  of  residency  in  an  urban  setting;  by  the  level  of 
education  and,  therefore,  the  degree  of  Westernization;  by  liv- 
ing habits;  by  the  nature  of  work;  and,  in  some  measure,  by  reli- 
gious affiliation.  For  analytic  purposes,  one  scholar  has  divided 
Ghanaian  urban  residents,  especially  those  in  the  upper  ranks 
of  urban  society,  into  groups  according  to  occupation.  Within 
these  groups  are  individuals  who,  on  the  basis  of  their  educa- 
tion, professional  standing,  and  participation  in  the  urban 
milieu,  are  accorded  high  status.  They  include  professionals  in 
economics,  politics,  education,  administration,  medicine,  law, 
and  similar  occupations  who  constitute  the  elite  of  their  respec- 
tive groupings. 


96 


View  of  central  Accra  along  Kwame  Nkrumah  Avenue 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 
A  main  thoroughfare  in  Cape  Coast 
Courtesy  James  Sanders 


97 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Taken  as  a  whole,  however,  such  elites  do  not  compose  an 
upper  class.  The  individuals  who  constitute  the  elites  come 
from  different  social  and  ethnic  backgrounds  and  base  their 
power  and  social  status  on  a  variety  of  cultural  values.  Most  of 
them  continue  to  participate  in  some  aspects  of  traditional 
society  and  socialize  with  members  of  their  own  or  other  lin- 
eage groups.  Most  important,  they  do  not  regard  themselves  as 
an  elite  group. 

The  working  class  constitutes  the  rank  and  file  of  the  various 
trade  union  groups.  The  majority  of  them  have  completed  the 
Middle  School  Leaving  Certificate  Examination.  Some  have 
secondary  and  technical  educations.  Unions  have  been  politi- 
cally active  in  the  country  since  the  1960s.  During  the  1970s, 
members  of  the  Trade  Union  Congress,  the  umbrella  organiza- 
tion of  workers,  and  the  nation's  university  students  joined 
together  to  call  for  political  changes.  In  the  1980s,  however, 
long-standing  good  relations  with  student  organizations  suf- 
fered when  certain  trade  union  groups  attacked  demonstrating 
university  students.  The  primary  function  of  the  Trade  Union 
Congress  as  a  mutual  aid  group  is  to  conduct  negotiations  with 
the  government  in  an  effort  to  improve  the  conditions  and  the 
wages  of  workers.  Apart  from  such  joint  actions  within  the 
unions,  the  lives  of  working  people  in  urban  centers,  like  those 
of  their  elite  counterparts,  revolve  around  friends,  family,  and 
other  mutual-aid  networks. 

Family  life  in  more  affluent  urban  areas  approximates  West- 
ern behavior  in  varying  degrees.  Decisions  in  the  urban  family 
are  increasingly  made  by  both  parents,  not  just  one.  As  chil- 
dren spend  increasing  amounts  of  time  away  from  home,  more 
of  their  values  come  from  their  peers  and  from  adults  who  are 
not  members  of  their  lineage.  Social  activities  organized  by 
schools  have  become  more  important  in  the  life  of  urban  chil- 
dren and  have  reduced  sibling  interaction.  As  a  result,  a 
greater  amount  of  socialization  is  taking  place  outside  the  kin 
group  and  immediate  family.  This  contrasts  with  rural  society 
in  which  family  and  lineage  remain  the  most  significant  institu- 
tions. 

As  a  result  of  weakening  lineage  ties  in  urban  centers  and  of 
population  movements  that  separate  more  and  more  individu- 
als from  kinsmen  upon  whom  they  would  ordinarily  depend 
for  assistance,  companionship,  and  entertainment,  many 
urban  residents  have  turned  to  voluntary-membership  clubs 
and  to  organizations  composed  of  people  with  shared  interests 


98 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


rather  than  inherited  links.  Popular  examples  of  such  clubs  are 
the  Ghana  Red  Cross  Society,  the  Accra  Turf  Club,  and  the 
Kristo  Asafo  (Christian  Women's  Club).  Other  organizations 
such  as  the  Ghana  Bar  Association,  the  Registered  Nurses  Asso- 
ciation, the  Ghana  Medical  Association,  and  the  Ghana 
National  Association  of  Teachers  address  professional  con- 
cerns. 

The  Position  of  Women 

Women  in  premodern  Ghanaian  society  were  seen  as  bear- 
ers of  children,  retailers  of  fish,  and  farmers.  Within  the  tradi- 
tional sphere,  the  childbearing  ability  of  women  was  explained 
as  the  means  by  which  lineage  ancestors  were  allowed  to  be 
reborn.  Barrenness  was,  therefore,  considered  the  greatest  mis- 
fortune. In  precolonial  times,  polygamy  was  encouraged,  espe- 
cially for  wealthy  men.  Anthropologists  have  explained  the 
practice  as  a  traditional  method  for  well-to-do  men  to  procre- 
ate additional  labor.  In  patrilineal  societies,  dowry  received 
from  marrying  off  daughters  was  also  a  traditional  means  for 
fathers  to  accumulate  additional  wealth.  Given  the  male  domi- 
nance in  traditional  society,  some  economic  anthropologists 
have  explained  a  female's  ability  to  reproduce  as  the  most 
important  means  by  which  women  ensured  social  and  eco- 
nomic security  for  themselves,  especially  if  they  bore  male  chil- 
dren. 

In  their  Seven  Roles  of  Women:  Impact  of  Education,  Migration, 
and  Employment  on  Ghanaian  Mothers  (1987),  Christine  Oppong 
and  Katherine  Abu  recorded  field  interviews  in  Ghana  that 
confirmed  this  traditional  view  of  procreation.  Citing  figures 
from  the  Ghana  fertility  survey  of  1983,  the  authors  concluded 
that  about  60  percent  of  women  in  the  country  preferred  to 
have  large  families  of  five  or  more  children.  A  statistical  table 
accompanying  the  research  showed  that  the  largest  number  of 
children  per  woman  was  found  in  the  rural  areas  where  the  tra- 
ditional concept  of  family  was  strongest.  Uneducated  urban 
women  also  had  large  families.  On  the  average,  urbanized,  edu- 
cated, and  employed  women  had  fewer  children.  On  the 
whole,  however,  all  the  interviewed  groups  saw  childbirth  as  an 
essential  role  for  women  in  society,  either  for  the  benefits  it 
bestows  upon  the  mother  or  for  the  honor  it  brings  to  her  fam- 
ily.The  security  that  procreation  provided  was  greater  in  the 
case  of  rural  and  uneducated  women.  By  contrast,  the  number 
of  children  per  mother  declined  for  women  with  post-elemen- 


99 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

tary  education  and  outside  employment.  With  a  guaranteed 
income  and  little  time  at  her  disposal  in  her  combined  role  as 
mother  and  employee,  a  woman's  desire  to  procreate  declined. 

In  rural  areas  of  Ghana  where  non-commercial  agricultural 
production  was  the  main  economic  activity,  women  worked  the 
land.  Coastal  women  also  sold  fish  caught  by  men.  Many  of  the 
financial  benefits  that  accrued  to  these  women  went  into 
upkeep  of  the  household,  while  those  of  the  man  were  rein- 
vested in  an  enterprise  that  was  often  perceived  as  belonging  to 
his  extended  family.  This  traditional  division  of  wealth  placed 
women  in  positions  subordinate  to  men.  The  persistence  of 
such  values  in  traditional  Ghanaian  society  may  explain  some 
of  the  resistance  to  female  education  in  the  past. 

In  traditional  society,  marriage  under  customary  law  was 
often  arranged  or  agreed  upon  by  the  fathers  and  other  senior 
kinsmen  of  the  prospective  bride  and  bridegroom.  This  type  of 
marriage  served  to  link  the  two  groups  together  in  social  rela- 
tionships; hence,  marriage  within  the  ethnic  group  and  in  the 
immediate  locality  was  encouraged.  The  age  at  which  marriage 
was  arranged  varied  among  ethnic  groups,  but  men  generally 
married  women  somewhat  younger  than  they  were.  Some  of 
the  marriages  were  even  arranged  by  the  families  long  before 
the  girl  attained  nubility.  In  these  matters,  family  consider- 
ations outweighed  personal  ones — a  situation  that  further  rein- 
forced the  subservient  position  of  the  wife. 

The  alienation  of  women  from  the  acquisition  of  wealth, 
even  in  conjugal  relationships,  was  strengthened  by  traditional 
living  arrangements.  Among  matrilineal  groups,  such  as  the 
Akan,  married  women  continued  to  reside  at  their  maternal 
homes.  Meals  prepared  by  the  wife  would  be  carried  to  the  hus- 
band at  his  maternal  house.  In  polygamous  situations,  visita- 
tion schedules  would  be  arranged.  The  separate  living  patterns 
reinforced  the  idea  that  each  spouse  is  subject  to  the  authority 
of  a  different  household  head,  and  because  spouses  are  always 
members  of  different  lineages,  each  is  ultimately  subject  to  the 
authority  of  the  senior  men  of  his  or  her  lineage.  The  wife,  as 
an  outsider  in  the  husband's  family,  would  not  inherit  any  of 
his  property,  other  than  that  granted  to  her  by  her  husband  as 
gifts  in  token  appreciation  of  years  of  devotion.  The  children 
from  this  matrilineal  marriage  would  be  expected  to  inherit 
from  their  mother's  family  (see  Traditional  Patterns  of  Social 
Relations,  this  ch.). 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  Ewe  and  the  Dagomba,  on  the  other  hand,  inherit  from 
fathers.  In  these  patrilineal  societies  where  the  domestic  group 
includes  the  man,  his  wife  or  wives,  their  children,  and  perhaps 
several  dependent  relatives,  the  wife  is  brought  into  closer 
proximity  to  the  husband  and  his  paternal  family.  Her  male 
children  also  assure  her  of  more  direct  access  to  wealth  accu- 
mulated in  the  marriage  with  her  husband. 

The  transition  into  the  modern  world  has  been  slow  for 
women.  On  the  one  hand,  the  high  rate  of  female  fertility  in 
Ghana  in  the  1980s  showed  that  women's  primary  role  contin- 
ued to  be  that  of  child-bearing.  On  the  other  hand,  current 
research  supported  the  view  that,  notwithstanding  the  Educa- 
tion Act  of  1960,  which  expanded  and  required  elementary 
education,  some  parents  were  reluctant  to  send  their  daughters 
to  school  because  their  labor  was  needed  in  the  home  and  on 
farms.  Resistance  to  female  education  also  stemmed  from  the 
conviction  that  women  would  be  supported  by  their  husbands. 
In  some  circles,  there  was  even  the  fear  that  a  girl's  marriage 
prospects  dimmed  when  she  became  educated. 

Where  girls  went  to  school,  most  of  them  did  not  continue 
after  receiving  the  basic  education  certification.  Others  did  not 
even  complete  the  elementary  level  of  education.  At  numerous 
workshops  organized  by  the  National  Council  on  Women  and 
Development  (NCWD)  between  1989  and  1990,  the  alarming 
drop-out  rate  among  girls  at  the  elementary  school  level 
caused  great  concern.  For  this  reason,  the  council  called  upon 
the  government  to  find  ways  to  remedy  the  situation.  The  dis- 
parity between  male  and  female  education  in  Ghana  was  again 
reflected  in  the  1984  national  census.  Although  the  ratio  of 
male  to  female  registration  in  elementary  schools  was  fifty-five 
to  forty-five,  the  percentage  of  girls  at  the  secondary  school 
level  dropped  considerably,  and  only  about  17  percent  of  regis- 
tered students  in  the  nation's  universities  in  1984  were  female. 
According  to  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cul- 
tural Organization  (UNESCO)  figures  published  in  1991,  the 
percentage  of  the  female  population  registered  at  various  levels 
of  the  nation's  educational  system  in  1989  showed  no  improve- 
ment over  those  recorded  in  1984  (see  table  5,  Appendix). 

Despite  what  these  figures  might  suggest,  women  have  risen 
to  positions  of  professional  importance  in  Ghana.  Early  1990s 
data  showed  that  about  19  percent  of  the  instructional  staff  at 
the  nation's  three  universities  in  1990  was  female.  Of  the  teach- 
ing staff  in  specialized  and  diploma-granting  institutions,  20 


101 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


percent  was  female;  elsewhere,  corresponding  figures  were  21 
percent  at  the  secondary  school  level,  23  percent  at  the  middle 
school  level,  and  as  high  as  42  percent  at  the  primary  school 
level.  Women  also  dominated  the  secretarial  and  nursing  pro- 
fessions in  Ghana.  When  women  were  employed  in  the  same 
line  of  work  as  men,  they  were  paid  equal  wages,  and  they  were 
granted  maternity  leave  with  pay. 

For  women  of  little  or  no  education  who  lived  in  urban  cen- 
ters, commerce  was  the  most  common  form  of  economic  activ- 
ity in  the  1980s.  At  urban  market  centers  throughout  the 
country,  women  from  the  rural  areas  brought  their  goods  to 
trade.  Other  women  specialized  in  buying  agricultural  produce 
at  discounted  prices  at  the  rural  farms  and  selling  it  to  retailers 
in  the  city.  These  economic  activities  were  crucial  in  sustaining 
the  general  urban  population.  From  the  mid-1970s  through 
the  early  1980s,  however,  urban  market  women,  especially 
those  who  specialized  in  trading  manufactured  goods,  gained 
reputations  for  manipulating  market  conditions  and  were 
accused  of  exacerbating  the  country's  already  difficult  eco- 
nomic situation.  With  the  introduction  of  the  Economic  Recov- 
ery Program  in  1983  and  the  consequent  successes  reported 
throughout  that  decade,  these  accusations  began  to  subside 
(see  Economic  Recovery  Program,  ch.  3). 

The  overall  impact  of  women  on  Ghanaian  society  cannot  be 
overemphasized.  The  social  and  economic  well-being  of 
women,  who  as  mothers,  traders,  farmers,  and  office  workers 
compose  slightly  more  than  half  of  the  nation's  population, 
cannot  be  taken  for  granted.  This  was  precisely  the  position 
taken  by  NCWD,  which  sponsored  a  number  of  studies  on 
women's  work,  education,  and  training,  and  on  family  issues 
that  are  relevant  in  the  design  and  execution  of  policies  for  the 
improvement  of  the  condition  of  women.  Among  these  consid- 
erations, the  NCWD  stressed  family  planning,  child  care,  and 
female  education  as  paramount. 

Religion  and  Society 

The  religious  composition  of  Ghana  in  the  first  postindepen- 
dence  population  census  of  1960  was  41  percent  Christian,  38 
percent  traditionalist,  12  percent  Muslim,  and  the  rest  (about  9 
percent)  no  religious  affiliation.  A  breakdown  of  the  1960  pop- 
ulation according  to  Christian  sects  showed  that  25  percent 
were  Protestant  (non-Pentecostal);  13  percent,  Roman  Catho- 
lic; 2  percent,  Protestant  (Pentecostal);  and  1  percent,  Inde- 


102 


Woman  pounding  cassava 
to  make  foo  foo,  a  starchy 
staple  of  the  Ghanaian  diet 
Courtesy  life  in  general 
(Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper 
Le  Van) 


pendent  African  Churches.  The  1970  population  census  did 
not  present  figures  on  the  religious  composition  of  the  nation. 

The  percentage  of  the  general  population  considered  to  be 
Christian  rose  sharply  to  62  percent  according  to  a  1985  esti- 
mate. Whereas  the  Protestant  (non-Pentecostal)  sector 
remained  at  25  percent,  the  percentage  of  Catholics  increased 
to  15  percent.  A  larger  rise,  however,  was  recorded  for  Protes- 
tants (Pentecostals) — 8  percent  compared  with  their  2  percent 
representation  in  1960.  From  being  the  smallest  Christian  sect, 
with  a  1  percent  representation  among  the  general  population 
in  1960,  membership  in  the  Independent  African  Churches 
rose  the  most — to  about  14  percent  by  1985.  The  1985  estimate 
also  showed  that  the  Muslim  population  of  Ghana  rose  to  15 
percent.  Conversely,  the  sector  representing  traditionalists  and 
non-believers  (38  and  9  percent,  respectively,  in  1960),  saw  dra- 
matic declines  by  1985 — to  21  and  about  1  percent,  respec- 
tively. This  shift,  especially  the  increase  in  favor  of  the 
Independent  African  Churches,  attests  to  the  success  of 
denominations  that  have  adjusted  their  doctrines  to  suit  local 
beliefs  (see  Syncretic  Religions,  this  ch.). 

Religious  tolerance  in  Ghana  is  very  high.  The  major  Chris- 
tian celebrations  of  Christmas  and  Easter  are  recognized  as 
national  holidays.  In  the  past,  vacation  periods  have  been 


103 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


planned  around  these  occasions,  thus  permitting  both  Chris- 
tians and  others  living  away  from  home  to  visit  friends  and  fam- 
ily in  the  rural  areas.  Ramadan,  the  Islamic  month  of  fasting,  is 
observed  by  Muslims  across  the  country.  Important  traditional 
occasions  are  celebrated  by  the  respective  ethnic  groups.  These 
festivals  include  the  Adae,  which  occur  fortnightly,  and  the 
annual  Odwira  festivals  of  the  Akan.  On  these  sacred  occasions, 
the  Akan  ancestors  are  venerated.  There  are  also  the  annual 
Homowo  activities  of  the  Ga-Adangbe,  during  which  people 
return  to  their  home  towns  to  gather  together,  to  greet  new 
members  of  the  family,  and  to  remember  the  dead.  The  reli- 
gious rituals  associated  with  these  festivities  are  strictly 
observed  by  the  traditional  elders  of  the  respective  ethic 
groups. 

Christianity  and  Islam  in  Ghana 

The  presence  of  Christian  missionaries  on  the  coast  of 
Ghana  has  been  dated  to  the  arrival  of  the  Portuguese  in  the 
fifteenth  century.  It  was  the  Basel/Presbyterian  and  Wesleyan/ 
Methodist  missionaries,  however,  who,  in  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury, laid  the  foundation  for  the  Christian  church  in  Ghana. 
Beginning  their  conversions  in  the  coastal  area  and  among  the 
Akwapim,  these  missionaries  established  schools  as  "nurseries 
of  the  church"  in  which  an  educated  African  class  was  trained. 
Almost  all  major  secondary  schools  today,  especially  exclusively 
boys  and  girls  schools,  are  mission-  or  church-related  institu- 
tions. Although  churches  continue  to  influence  the  develop- 
ment of  education  in  the  country,  church  schools  have  been 
opened  to  all  since  the  state  assumed  financial  responsibility 
for  formal  instruction  under  the  Education  Act  of  1960. 

Various  Christian  denominations  are  well  represented  in 
Ghana.  The  Volta  region  has  a  high  concentration  of  Evangeli- 
cal Presbyterians.  Many  Akwapim  are  Presbyterians,  and  the 
Methodist  denomination  is  strongly  represented  among  the 
Fante.  The  Roman  Catholic  Church  is  fairly  well  represented  in 
Central  Region  and  Ashanti  Region.  Although  no  official  fig- 
ures exist  to  reflect  regional  distribution  of  the  various  denom- 
inations, it  is  generally  agreed  that  the  southern  part  of  the 
nation  is  more  Christian,  while  the  north  is  more  Islamic. 

The  unifying  organization  of  Christians  in  the  country  is  the 
Christian  Council  of  Ghana,  founded  in  1929.  Representing 
the  Methodist,  Anglican,  Mennonite,  Presbyterian,  Evangelical 
Presbyterian,  African  Methodist  Episcopal  Zionist,  Christian 


104 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

Methodist,  Evangelical  Lutheran,  F'Eden,  and  Baptist 
churches,  and  the  Society  of  Friends,  the  council  serves  as  the 
link  with  the  World  Council  of  Churches  and  other  ecumenical 
bodies.  The  National  Catholic  Secretariat,  established  in  1960, 
also  coordinates  the  different  in-country  dioceses.  These  Chris- 
tian organizations,  concerned  primarily  with  the  spiritual 
affairs  of  their  congregations,  have  occasionally  acted  in  cir- 
cumstances described  by  the  government  as  political.  Such  was 
the  case  in  1991  when  both  the  Catholic  Bishops  Conference 
and  the  Christian  Council  of  Ghana  called  on  the  military  gov- 
ernment of  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (PNDC) 
to  return  the  country  to  constitutional  rule.  The  Roman  Catho- 
lic newspaper,  The  Standard,  was  often  critical  of  PNDC  policies. 

In  the  north,  Islam  predominates.  Islam  is  based  on  what 
Muslims  believe  are  the  divine  revelations  received  in  seventh- 
century  Arabia  by  the  Prophet  Muhammad.  His  life  is 
recounted  as  the  early  history  of  the  religion,  beginning  with 
his  travels  from  the  Arabian  town  of  Mecca  about  A.D.  610.  His 
condemnation  of  the  polytheistic  practices  of  the  people  of 
Mecca  caused  him  to  become  an  outcast.  In  A.D.  622  Muham- 
mad was  invited  to  the  town  of  Yathrib,  which  became  known  as 
Medina  (the  city)  through  its  association  with  him.  The  move, 
or  hijra,  known  in  the  West  as  the  hegira,  marks  the  beginning 
of  the  Islamic  Era  and  the  Islamic  calendar,  as  well  as  the  inau- 
guration of  Islam  as  a  powerful  force  in  history.  In  Medina, 
Muhammad  continued  his  preaching,  ultimately  defeated  his 
detractors  in  battle,  and  consolidated  his  influence  as  both 
temporal  and  spiritual  leader  of  most  Arabs  before  his  death  in 
A.D.  632. 

After  Muhammad's  death,  his  followers  compiled  those  of 
his  words  that  were  regarded  as  coming  directly  from  God  into 
the  Quran,  the  holy  scripture  of  Islam.  Other  sayings  and 
teachings  as  well  as  precedents  of  his  behavior  as  recalled  by 
those  who  knew  him  became  the  hadith  ("sayings").  From 
these  sources,  the  faithful  constructed  the  Prophet's  customary 
practice,  or  sunna,  which  they  endeavor  to  emulate.  The 
Quran,  hadith,  and  sunna  form  a  comprehensive  guide  to  the 
spiritual,  ethical,  and  social  life  of  the  faithful  in  most  Muslim 
countries. 

The  God  preached  by  Muhammad  was  previously  known  to 
his  countrymen.  Rather  than  introducing  a  new  deity,  Muham- 
mad denied  the  existence  of  the  pantheon  of  gods  and  spirits 
worshipped  before  his  prophethood  and  declared  the  omnipo- 


105 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

tence  of  God,  the  unique  creator.  Muhammad  is  the  "Seal  of 
the  Prophets,"  the  last  of  the  prophetic  line.  His  revelations  are 
said  to  complete  for  all  time  the  series  of  revelations  that  were 
given  earlier  to  Jews  and  Christians.  Islam  reveres  as  sacred 
only  the  message,  not  the  Prophet.  It  accepts  the  concepts  of 
guardian  angels,  the  Day  of  Judgment,  resurrection,  and  the 
eternal  life  of  the  soul. 

The  central  requirement  of  Islam  is  submission  to  the  will  of 
God  (Allah),  and,  accordingly,  a  Muslim  is  a  person  who  has 
submitted  his  will  to  God.  The  most  important  demonstration 
of  faith  is  the  shahada  (profession  of  faith),  which  states  that 
"There  is  no  God  but  God  (Allah),  and  Muhammad  is  his 
prophet."  Salat  (daily  prayer),  zakat  (almsgiving),  sawm  (fast- 
ing), and  hajj  (pilgrimage  to  Mecca)  are  also  required  of  all 
Muslims. 

The  spread  of  Islam  into  West  Africa,  beginning  with  ancient 
Ghana  in  the  ninth  century,  was  mainly  the  result  of  the  com- 
mercial activities  of  North  African  Muslims  (see  The  Precolo- 
nial  Period,  ch.  1).  The  empires  of  both  Mali  and  Songhai  that 
followed  ancient  Ghana  in  the  Western  Sudan  adopted  the  reli- 
gion. Islam  made  its  entry  into  the  northern  territories  of  mod- 
ern Ghana  around  the  fifteenth  century.  Mande  or  Wangara 
traders  and  clerics  carried  the  religion  into  the  area.  The 
northeastern  sector  of  the  country  was  also  influenced  by  Mus- 
lims who  escaped  the  Hausa  jihads  of  northern  Nigeria  in  the 
early  nineteenth  century. 

Most  Ghanaian  Muslims  are  Sunni,  following  the  Maliki  ver- 
sion of  Islamic  law.  Sufism,  involving  the  organization  of  mysti- 
cal brotherhoods  (tariqa)  for  the  purification  and  spread  of 
Islam,  is  not  widespread  in  Ghana.  The  Tijaniyah  and  the  Qadi- 
riyah  brotherhoods,  however,  are  represented.  The 
Ahmadiyah,  a  Shia  (see  Glossary)  sect  originating  in  nine- 
teenth-century India,  is  the  only  non-Sunni  order  in  the  coun- 
try. 

Despite  the  spread  of  Islamism  (popularly  known  as  Islamic 
fundamentalism)  in  the  Middle  East,  North  Africa,  and  even  in 
Nigeria  since  the  mid-1970s,  Ghanaian  Muslims  and  Christians 
have  had  excellent  relations.  Guided  by  the  authority  of  the 
Muslim  Representative  Council,  religious,  social,  and  eco- 
nomic matters  affecting  Muslims  have  often  been  redressed 
through  negotiations.  The  Muslim  Council  has  also  been 
responsible  for  arranging  pilgrimages  to  Mecca  for  believers 
who  can  afford  the  journey.  In  spite  of  these  achievements,  the 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


council  has  not  succeeded  in  taking  initiatives  for  the  upgrad- 
ing of  Islamic  schools  beyond  the  provision  of  basic  Quranic 
instruction.  This  may  explain  the  economic  and  technological 
gap  between  Muslims  and  non-Muslims.  The  Ghanaian 
Ahmadiyah  Movement,  which  has  established  a  number  of 
vocational  training  centers,  hospitals,  and  some  secondary 
schools,  is  an  exception. 

Traditional  Religion 

Despite  the  presence  of  Islam  and  Christianity,  traditional 
religions  in  Ghana  have  retained  their  influence  because  of 
their  intimate  relation  to  family  loyalties  and  local  mores.  The 
traditional  cosmology  expresses  belief  in  a  supreme  being 
(referred  to  by  the  Akan  as  Nyame  and  by  the  Ewe  as  Mawu). 
The  supreme  being  is  usually  thought  of  as  remote  from  daily 
religious  life  and  is,  therefore,  not  directly  worshipped.  There 
are  also  lesser  gods  that  take  "residency"  in  streams,  rivers, 
trees,  and  mountains.  These  gods  are  generally  perceived  as 
intermediaries  between  the  supreme  being  and  society.  Ances- 
tors and  numerous  other  spirits  are  also  recognized  as  part  of 
the  cosmological  order. 

For  all  Ghanaian  ethnic  groups,  the  spirit  world  is  consid- 
ered to  be  as  real  as  the  world  of  the  living.  The  dual  worlds  of 
the  mundane  and  the  sacred  are  linked  by  a  network  of  mutual 
relationships  and  responsibilities.  The  action  of  the  living,  for 
example,  can  affect  the  gods  or  spirits  of  the  departed,  while 
the  support  of  family  or  "tribal"  ancestors  ensures  prosperity  of 
the  lineage  or  state.  Neglect,  it  is  believed,  might  spell  doom. 

Veneration  of  departed  ancestors  is  a  major  characteristic  of 
all  traditional  religions.  The  ancestors  are  believed  to  be  the 
most  immediate  link  with  the  spiritual  world,  and  they  are 
thought  to  be  constantly  near,  observing  every  thought  and 
action  of  the  living.  Some  ancestors  may  even  be  reincarnated 
to  replenish  the  lineage.  Barrenness  is,  therefore,  considered  a 
great  misfortune  because  it  prevents  ancestors  from  returning 
to  life. 

To  ensure  that  a  natural  balance  is  maintained  between  the 
world  of  the  sacred  and  that  of  the  profane,  the  roles  of  the 
chief  within  the  state,  family  elders  in  relation  to  the  lineage, 
and  the  priest  within  society  are  crucial.  The  religious  func- 
tions, especially  of  chiefs  and  lineage  heads,  are  clearly  demon- 
strated during  such  periods  as  the  Odwira  of  the  Akan,  the 
Homowo  of  the  Ga-Adangbe,  or  the  Aboakyir  of  the  Efutu 


107 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

(coastal  Guan),  when  the  people  are  organized  in  activities  that 
renew  and  strengthen  relations  with  their  ancestors.  Such  activ- 
ities include  the  making  of  sacrifices  and  the  pouring  of  liba- 
tions. 

The  religious  activities  of  chiefs  and  lineage  heads  are  gener- 
ally limited  to  the  more  routine  biweekly  and  annual  festivities, 
but  traditional  priests — given  their  association  with  specific 
shrines — are  regarded  as  specialized  practitioners  through 
whom  the  spirits  of  the  gods  may  grant  directions.  Priests 
undergo  vigorous  training  in  the  arts  of  medicine,  divination, 
and  other  related  disciplines  and  are,  therefore,  consulted  on  a 
more  regular  basis  by  the  public.  Because  many  diseases  are 
believed  to  have  spiritual  causes,  traditional  priests  sometimes 
act  as  doctors  or  herbalists.  Shrine  visitation  is  strongest  among 
the  uneducated  and  in  rural  communities.  This  fact,  however, 
does  not  necessarily  suggest  that  the  educated  Ghanaian  has 
totally  abandoned  tradition;  some  educated  and  mission- 
trained  individuals  do  consult  traditional  oracles  in  times  of  cri- 
sis. 

Syncretic  Religions 

The  rise  of  Apostolic  or  Pentecostal  churches  across  the 
nation  partly  demonstrates  the  impact  of  social  change  and  the 
eclectic  nature  of  traditional  cultures.  These  establishments, 
referred  to  by  some  as  separatist  or  spiritual  churches  or  cults, 
combine  traditional  beliefs  in  magic  and  divination  with  ele- 
ments of  Christianity.  The  major  emphasis  of  the  cults  is  on 
curative  and  preventive  remedies,  chants,  and  charms,  such  as 
"holy  water,"  designed  to  ward  off  the  power  of  witches  and 
malevolent  forces.  Cults  also  offer  social  activities  in  addition  to 
their  religious  and  medical  roles.  Some  have  rival  drum  societ- 
ies and  singing  groups  that  are  highly  popular  among  the 
young  and  women.  To  their  adherents,  these  cults  seem  to 
offer  a  sense  of  security  derived  from  belonging  to  a  religious 
group  that  is  new  yet  maintains  the  characteristics  of  tradi- 
tional forms  of  occult  consultation.  The  increasing  popularity 
of  these  churches  (Independent  African  and  Pentecostal)  is 
reflected  in  figures  for  membership,  which  rose  from  1  and  2 
percent,  respectively,  in  1960,  to  14  and  8  percent,  respectively, 
according  to  a  1985  estimate. 

Although  freedom  of  religion  exists  in  Ghana,  a  Religious 
Bodies  (Registration)  Law  2989  was  passed  in  June  1989  to  reg- 
ulate churches.  By  requiring  certification  of  all  Christian  reli- 


108 


A  tendaana,  or  priest  of  the 
land,  in  front  of  his  shrine 
in  far  northern  Ghana 
(Talensi  area) 
Courtesy  life  in  general 
(Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper 
Le  Van) 


gious  organizations  operating  in  Ghana,  the  government 
reserved  the  right  to  inspect  the  functioning  of  these  bodies 
and  to  order  the  auditing  of  their  financial  statements.  The 
Ghana  Council  of  Churches  interpreted  the  Religious  Bodies 
Law  as  contradicting  the  concept  of  religious  freedom  in  the 
country.  According  to  a  government  statement,  however,  the 
law  was  designed  to  protect  the  freedom  and  integrity  of  genu- 
ine religious  organizations  by  exposing  and  eliminating  groups 
established  to  take  advantage  of  believers.  The  PNDC  repealed 
the  law  in  late  1992.  Despite  its  provisions,  all  orthodox  Chris- 
tian denominations  and  many  spiritual  churches  continued  to 
operate  in  the  country. 

Health  and  Welfare 

In  precolonial  Ghana,  as  in  the  rest  of  sub-Saharan  Africa, 
traditional  priests  were  important  in  providing  treatment  for 
the  sick.  The  role  of  village  priests  in  the  medical  sphere 
reflected  the  belief  that  unexplained  illness,  misfortune,  and 
premature  death  were  caused  by  supernatural  agents.  In  the 
treatment  of  illness,  therefore,  the  usual  process  was  for  the 
priest  to  use  divination  to  determine  the  source  of  the  malady 
and  to  suggest  sacrifices  to  appease  the  causal  agents  before 
herbal  medicine  was  prescribed  for  the  patient.  Since  the  intro- 


109 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

duction  of  Islam  in  Ghana  in  the  fourteenth  century,  Muslim 
clerics  have  also  been  known  to  provide  spiritual  treatment  and 
protection  in  the  form  of  charms  and  amulets  derived  from 
Quranic  beliefs. 

The  role  of  the  village  priests,  who  provided  medical  advice 
and  sometimes  treatment  for  the  sick,  has  often  been  stressed 
over  that  of  the  herbalists,  who  served  their  communities  solely 
as  dispensers  of  medicinal  herbs.  Recent  scholarship,  however, 
has  shown  that  villagers  in  the  premodern  era  understood  ill- 
ness and  misfortune  to  originate  from  both  natural  and  super- 
natural sources.  Even  after  a  spiritually  caused  ailment  was 
identified  and  the  proper  rituals  performed,  the  final  cure  was 
usually  via  the  application  of  medicinal  herbs — a  situation  that 
made  knowledge  of  the  medicinal  value  of  plants  and  herbs 
important.  Herbal  medicine  was  used  in  the  treatment  of  diar- 
rhea and  stomach  pains,  for  dressing  wounds,  as  an  antidote 
for  poisons,  and  to  stabilize  pregnancies.  Traditional  healers 
continue  to  be  relied  upon,  especially  in  the  rural  areas  where 
modern  health  services  are  limited. 

The  medical  value  of  traditional  remedies  varies.  While  the 
medicinal  properties  of  herbs  cannot  be  denied,  in  some  cases 
herbs  may  be  harmful  and  may  result  in  severe  infections  or 
even  death.  It  was  for  this  reason  that  an  association  of  tradi- 
tional healers  was  formed  in  the  1960s  with  its  headquarters  at 
Nsawam  in  Greater  Accra  Region.  The  Traditional  Healers' 
Association  has  tried  to  preserve  the  integrity  of  traditional 
medicinal  practice.  Its  members  have  also  attempted  to  assure 
the  government,  through  the  Ministry  of  Health,  that  the  dis- 
pensation of  herbal  medicine  has  a  role  to  play  in  modern 
medical  practice  in  Ghana. 

Western  medicine  was  first  introduced  into  the  Gold  Coast 
by  Christian  missionaries  and  missionary  societies  in  the  nine- 
teenth century.  Missionaries  were  almost  the  sole  providers  of 
modern  medicine  until  after  World  War  I.  Important  mission- 
ary medical  facilities  in  Ghana  today  include  Catholic-affiliated 
hospitals  in  Sunyani  and  Tamale,  the  Muslim  Ahmadiyah  facili- 
ties at  Efiduasi-Asokori,  and  a  Presbyterian  hospital  at  Agogo  in 
Eastern  Region. 

Attempts  by  the  central  government  to  expand  Western 
medical  care  in  the  country  were  given  serious  consideration 
during  the  tenure  of  Frederick  Gordon  Guggisberg  ( 1919-2 V) 
as  governor  of  the  Gold  Coast.  As  part  of  his  ten-year  develop- 
ment program,  Guggisberg  proposed  town  improvements, 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


improved  water  supply,  and  the  construction  of  hospitals.  It  was 
during  his  era  that  Korle  Bu,  the  first  teaching  hospital  in  the 
Gold  Coast,  was  completed  in  1925. 

Since  the  end  of  World  War  II,  the  World  Health  Organiza- 
tion (WHO)  and  the  United  Nations  Children's  Fund 
(UNICEF)  have  provided  financial  and  technical  assistance  for 
the  elimination  of  diseases  and  the  improvement  of  health 
standards.  A  shortage  of  medical  specialists  exists,  however,  and 
local  facilities  for  training  medical  personnel  need  to  be 
expanded  and  updated.  As  a  consequence,  many  Ghanaians  in 
the  immediate  post-World  War  II  period  continued  to  rely  on 
traditional  doctors  and  herbalists. 

Despite  efforts  to  improve  medical  conditions  in  the  decades 
following  World  War  II,  the  first  postindependence  census  of 
1960  did  not  provide  data  on  the  medical  situation  in  Ghana. 
There  was  still  no  regular  system  for  gathering  medical  statis- 
tics by  the  mid-1960s  and  no  suggestion  that  one  would  be 
developed  by  1970.  During  that  period,  available  figures  were 
gathered  from  scattered  samplings  and  were  collected  on  a 
haphazard  basis  or  were  the  summation  of  hospital  records  and 
United  Nations  projections.  Thus,  only  partial  information 
about  the  total  health  situation  was  available.  Records  from  the 
1984  census  and  newspaper  reports  on  seminars  conducted  on 
health-related  issues,  especially  since  the  mid-1980s,  now  make 
it  easier  to  evaluate  national  health. 

Health  Care 

Ghana  has  the  full  range  of  diseases  endemic  to  a  sub- 
Saharan  country.  According  to  WHO,  common  diseases 
include  cholera,  typhoid,  pulmonary  tuberculosis,  anthrax, 
pertussis,  tetanus,  chicken  pox,  yellow  fever,  measles,  infectious 
hepatitis,  trachoma,  malaria,  and  schistosomiasis.  Others  are 
guinea  worm  or  dracunculiasis,  various  kinds  of  dysentery,  river 
blindness  or  onchocerciasis,  several  kinds  of  pneumonia,  dehy- 
dration, venereal  diseases,  and  poliomyelitis.  According  to  a 
1974  report,  more  than  75  percent  of  all  preventable  diseases 
at  that  time  were  waterborne.  In  addition,  malnutrition  and 
diseases  acquired  through  insect  bites  continued  to  be  com- 
mon. 

WHO  lists  malaria  and  measles  as  the  leading  causes  of  pre- 
mature death  in  Ghana.  Among  children  under  five  years  of 
age,  70  percent  of  deaths  are  caused  by  infections  com- 
pounded by  malnutrition.  Guinea  worm  reached  epidemic 


111 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

proportions,  especially  in  the  northern  part  of  the  country,  in 
1988-89.  Cerebral  spinal  meningitis  also  spread  in  the  country 
and  claimed  a  number  of  victims  in  the  late  1980s.  All  these 
afflictions  are  either  typical  of  tropical  regions  or  common  in 
developing  countries. 

To  improve  health  conditions  in  Ghana,  the  Ministry  of 
Health  emphasized  health  services  research  in  the  1970s.  In 
addition,  WHO  and  the  government  worked  closely  in  the 
early  1980s  to  control  schistosomiasis  in  man-made  bodies  of 
water.  Efforts  have  been  intensified  since  1980  to  improve  the 
nation's  sanitation  facilities  and  access  to  safe  water.  The  per- 
centage of  the  national  population  that  had  access  to  safe  water 
rose  from  49.2  in  1980  to  57.2  percent  in  1987.  During  that 
same  period,  the  25.6  percent  of  the  population  with  access  to 
sanitation  services  (public  latrines,  rubbish  disposal,  etc.)  rose 
to  30.3  percent.  According  to  WHO,  however,  many  of  the 
reported  sanitation  advances  have  been  made  in  urban  areas 
and  not  in  rural  communities  where  the  majority  of  the  popu- 
lation lives. 

On  the  whole,  however,  Ghana's  health  conditions  are 
improving.  The  result  is  reflected  in  the  decline  in  infant  mor- 
tality from  120  per  1,000  live  births  in  1965  to  86  per  1,000  live 
births  in  1989,  and  a  rate  of  overall  life  expectancy  that 
increased  from  an  average  of  forty-four  years  in  1970  to  fifty-six 
years  in  1993.  To  reduce  the  country's  infant  mortality  rate  fur- 
ther, the  government  initiated  the  Expanded  Program  on 
Immunization  in  February  1989  as  part  of  a  ten-year  Health 
Action  Plan  to  improve  the  delivery  of  health  services.  The  gov- 
ernment action  was  taken  a  step  farther  by  the  Greater  Accra 
Municipal  Council,  which  declared  child  immunization  a  pre- 
requisite for  admission  to  public  schools. 

Modern  medical  services  in  Ghana  are  provided  by  the  cen- 
tral government,  local  institutions,  Christian  missions  (private 
nonprofit  agencies),  and  a  relatively  small  number  of  private 
for-profit  practitioners.  According  to  the  United  Nations, 
about  60.2  percent  of  the  country's  total  population  in  1975 
depended  on  government  or  quasi-government  health  centers 
for  medical  care.  Of  the  available  health  facilities  represented 
in  the  1984  census,  about  62.9  percent  were  still  described  as 
government  and  quasi-government  institutions.  Mission  hospi- 
tals represented  a  large  percentage  of  the  remainder,  while  pri- 
vate hospitals  constituted  less  than  2  percent  of  modern 
medical  care  facilities  (see  table  4,  Appendix). 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  medical  system  in  Ghana  comes  under  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Ministry  of  Health,  which  is  also  charged  with  the  con- 
trol of  dangerous  drugs,  narcotics,  scientific  research,  and  the 
professional  qualifications  of  medical  personnel.  Regional  and 
district  medical  matters  fall  under  the  jurisdiction  of  trained 
medical  superintendents.  Members  of  the  national  Psychic  and 
Healers'  Association  have  also  been  recognized  by  the  govern- 
ment since  1969.  Over  the  years,  all  administrative  branches  of 
the  Ministry  of  Health  have  worked  closely  with  city,  town,  and 
village  councils  in  educating  the  population  in  sanitation  mat- 
ters. 

Many  modern  medical  facilities  exist  in  Ghana,  but  these  are 
not  evenly  distributed  across  the  country.  Ministry  of  Health 
figures  for  1990  showed  that  there  were  18,477  hospital  beds 
for  the  estimated  national  population  of  15  million.  World 
Bank  (see  Glossary)  figures  showed  that  in  1965  there  was  one 
physician  to  every  13,740  patients  in  Ghana.  The  ratio  widened 
to  one  to  20,460  in  1989.  In  neighboring  Togo,  the  doctor-to- 
patient  ratio  of  one  to  23,240  in  1965  improved  to  one  to  8,700 
in  1989;  it  was  one  to  29,530  in  1965  and  one  to  6,160  in  1989 
for  Nigeria,  whereas  in  Burkina,  the  ratio  of  one  to  73,960  in 
1965  worsened  to  one  to  265,250  in  1989.  These  figures  show 
that  while  the  doctor-patient  ratio  in  Ghana  gradually  became 
less  favorable,  the  ratio  in  neighboring  countries,  with  the 
exception  of  Burkina,  was  rapidly  improving. 

The  ratio  of  nurses  to  patients  in  Ghana  (one  to  3,730  in 
1965),  however,  improved  to  one  to  1,670  by  1989.  Compared 
to  Togo  (one  nurse  to  4,990  patients  in  1965  and  one  to  1,240 
in  1989)  and  Burkina  (one  to  4,150  in  1965  and  one  to  1,680  in 
1989),  the  rate  of  improvement  in  Ghana  was  slow.  The 
improvement  in  Nigeria's  nurse-to-patient  ratio  from  one  to 
6,160  in  1965  to  one  to  1,900  in  1989  was  exceptional.  A  rapidly 
growing  Ghanaian  population  was  not  the  only  reason  for  unfa- 
vorable ratios  of  medical  staff  to  patients;  similar  population 
growth  was  experienced  in  neighboring  West  African  coun- 
tries. Insofar  as  the  Ghana  Medical  Association  and  the  various 
nurses  associations  were  concerned,  better  salaries  and  work- 
ing conditions  in  Nigeria,  for  example,  were  significant  vari- 
ables in  explaining  the  attraction  of  that  country  for  Ghanaian 
physicians  and  other  medical  personnel.  This  attraction  was 
especially  true  for  male  and,  therefore,  more  mobile  medical 
workers,  as  shown  by  the  arguments  of  various  health  workers' 


113 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

associations  in  1990  during  demonstrations  in  support  of 
claims  for  pay  raises  and  improved  working  conditions. 

Ghana  adopted  a  number  of  policies  to  ensure  an  improved 
health  sector.  These  included  the  introduction  of  minimum 
fees  paid  by  patients  to  augment  state  funding  for  health  ser- 
vices and  a  national  insurance  plan  introduced  in  1989.  Also  in 
1989,  the  construction  of  additional  health  centers  was  intensi- 
fied to  expand  primary  health  care  to  about  60  percent  of  the 
rural  community.  Hitherto,  less  than  40  percent  of  the  rural 
population  had  access  to  primary  health  care,  and  fewer  than 
half  of  Ghanaian  children  were  immunized  against  various 
childhood  diseases.  The  training  of  village  health  workers, 
community  health  workers,  and  traditional  birth  attendants 
was  also  intensified  in  the  mid-1980s  in  order  to  create  a  pool 
of  personnel  to  educate  the  population  about  preventive  mea- 
sures necessary  for  a  healthy  community. 

Since  1986  efforts  to  improve  health  conditions  in  Ghana 
have  been  strengthened  through  the  efforts  of  Global  2000 
(see  Glossary).  Although  primarily  an  agricultural  program, 
Global  2000  has  also  provided  basic  health  education,  espe- 
cially in  the  northern  parts  of  the  country  where  the  spread  of 
guinea  worm  reached  epidemic  proportions  in  1989.  Reports 
on  the  impact  of  Global  2000  on  health  have  been  positive  in 
other  ways  as  well.  For  example,  participating  farmers  have  sig- 
nificantly increased  their  agricultural  output — a  development 
that  has  contributed  to  a  decline  in  malnutrition.  Also,  the 
number  of  cases  of  guinea  worm  had  dropped  significantly  by 
early  1993. 

Acquired  Immune  Deficiency  Syndrome  (AIDS) 

In  March  1986,  the  first  case  of  acquired  immune  deficiency 
syndrome  (AIDS)  was  reported  in  Ghana.  In  January  1991,  a 
more  detailed  report  on  AIDS  in  Ghana  appeared  in  which  107 
human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  positive  cases  were  said 
to  have  been  recorded  in  1987.  Three  hundred  thirty-three 
people  were  identified  as  HIV  positive  by  the  end  of  March 
1988,  and  there  was  a  further  increase  to  2,744  by  the  end  of 
April  1990.  Of  the  April  1990  number,  1,226  were  reported  to 
have  contracted  AIDS.  According  to  WHO  annual  reports,  the 
disease  continued  to  spread  in  the  country.  During  1991  the 
Komfo  Anokye  Teaching  Hospital  reported  about  fifty  AIDS 
cases  each  month. 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Although  the  reported  figures  were  far  below  the  number  of 
known  cases  in  East  Africa  and  Central  Africa,  they  were  still 
alarming  for  a  medical  system  already  overburdened  by  tradi- 
tional health  problems.  Seminars  and  conferences  held  to  dis- 
cuss the  disease  included  the  1990  annual  conference  of  the 
Ghana  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences.  The  conference  theme 
was  the  impact  of  international  prostitution  and  the  spread  of 
AIDS.  The  Ministry  of  Health,  with  funding  from  WHO,  had 
also  set  up  surveillance  systems  to  track  the  AIDS  virus  as  part 
of  its  medium-term  (1989-93)  plan.  According  to  the  program, 
a  countrywide  sample  of  both  high-  and  low-risk  groups  had 
been  identified  for  testing  at  regular  intervals  to  measure  the 
prevalence  of  the  disease.  A  thirty-member  National  Advisory 
Council  on  AIDS  was  established  in  late  1989  to  advise  the  gov- 
ernment on  policy  matters  relating  to  the  control  and  preven- 
tion of  AIDS  in  the  country.  The  Ministry  of  Health  lacks 
adequately  trained  personnel  and  information  management 
systems  to  combat  the  disease. 

Because  of  the  continued  spread  of  infection  and  improved 
reporting,  the  country  recorded  12,500  AIDS  cases  by  the  end 
of  1994,  placing  Ghana  second  only  to  neighboring  Cote  d'lvo- 
ire,  where  more  than  16,600  cases  of  AIDS  were  recorded,  in 
the  West  Africa  subregion.  Of  the  Ghanaian  AIDS  cases,  about 
8,000  were  people  aged  fifteen  to  forty-five;  the  remainder 
were  mostly  children  aged  five  to  ten.  At  the  same  time,  Ghana- 
ian health  officials  estimated  the  number  of  HIV  positive  cases 
at  about  300,000.  The  incidence  of  HIV  positive  and  AIDS 
cases  was  highest  in  Ashanti  Region. 

The  most-affected  age-group  in  Ghana  is  young  working 
adults.  Some  70  percent  of  the  total  infected  population  is 
female;  on  the  basis  of  this  finding,  the  Ministry  of  Health 
anticipates  a  significant  increase  in  HIV-positive  births  in  the 
future.  Considering  the  gravity  of  the  problem,  in  February 
1994  the  National  Parliament  recommended  that  a  select  com- 
mittee on  education  and  health  be  established  to  study  and 
make  recommendations  for  measures  to  control  AIDS.  In  the 
meantime,  radio,  television,  and  billboard  advertisements  are 
being  used  as  part  of  a  national  AIDS  awareness  program. 

Social  Welfare 

In  precolonial  Ghanaian  societies,  it  was  normal  for  individ- 
uals to  receive  economic  assistance  from  members  of  their 
extended  families — including  paternal  and  maternal  uncles, 


115 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

aunts,  grandparents,  and  cousins.  The  practice  of  expecting 
assistance  from  family  members  grew  out  of  the  understanding 
that  the  basis  of  family  wealth  derived  from  land  and  labor, 
both  inherited  from  common  ancestors.  Even  as  individuals 
sought  help  from  extended  family  members,  they  were  in  turn 
required  to  fulfill  certain  responsibilities,  such  as  contributing 
labor  when  needed  or  participating  in  activities  associated  with 
rites  of  passage  of  family  members.  It  is  because  of  this  mutual 
interdependence  of  the  members  of  the  family  that  anthropol- 
ogist Robert  S.  Rattray  defined  the  extended  family  in  Ghana 
as  the  primary  political  unit.  Today,  the  same  system  of  welfare 
assistance  prevails  in  rural  areas,  where  more  than  two-thirds  of 
the  country's  population  resides. 

Legislation  for  the  provision  of  a  modern  national  social 
security  system  went  into  effect  in  1965.  Further  legislation  was 
passed  in  1970  to  convert  the  system  into  a  pension  plan  to  pro- 
vide for  sickness,  maternity,  and  work-related  injury  benefits. 
Government  welfare  programs  at  the  time  were  the  responsibil- 
ity of  the  Department  of  Social  Welfare  under  the  Ministry  of 
Labour  and  Social  Welfare  (now  the  Ministry  of  Mobilization 
and  Social  Welfare).  As  the  national  economy  was  reformed, 
the  Workers'  Compensation  Act  of  1986  was  passed  to  guaran- 
tee wages  to  workers  in  the  private  sector  while  they  were 
undergoing  treatment  for  work-related  injuries. 

These  plans,  however,  applied  only  to  individuals  employed 
in  the  formal  sector  of  the  economy.  With  about  two-thirds  of 
the  country's  population  residing  in  rural  areas,  and  with  most 
urban  residents  engaged  outside  the  formal  economy,  the  tra- 
ditional pattern  of  social  security  based  on  kin  obligations  still 
functions.  In  rural  areas,  individuals  continue  to  turn  to  mem- 
bers of  the  extended  family  for  financial  aid  and  guidance,  and 
the  family  is  expected  to  provide  for  the  welfare  of  every  mem- 
ber. In  villages,  towns,  and  cities,  this  mutual  assistance  system 
operates  within  the  larger  kinship  units  of  lineage  and  clan.  In 
large  urban  areas,  religious,  social,  and  professionally  based 
mutual  assistance  groups  have  become  popular  as  a  way  to 
address  professional  and  urban  problems  beyond  the  scope  of 
the  traditional  kinship  social  security  system  (see  Urban  Soci- 
ety, this  ch.). 

According  to  a  1988  newspaper  report,  housing  has  become 
a  major  problem  for  city  dwellers.  The  report  indicated  that 
former  governments  largely  ignored  the  problem,  thereby 
allowing  the  situation  to  reach  an  alarming  state.  The  result  is 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


an  acute  shortage  of  affordable  rental  housing  for  urban  work- 
ers and  students,  who  have  to  pay  exorbitant  rents.  This  short- 
age in  turn  has  resulted  in  working  husbands'  leaving  their 
families  in  their  home  villages  and  returning  only  when  their 
work  schedules  allow  them  time  to  visit. 

The  introduction  of  the  "Rural  Manifesto"  of  1984  was  an 
attempt  by  the  PNDC  administration  to  address  a  general 
development  problem  that  included  urban  housing.  According 
to  thel984  plan,  many  services,  such  as  the  provision  of  pipe- 
borne  water,  banking  facilities,  and  electricity,  were  to  be  intro- 
duced to  the  rural  areas,  thereby  making  such  locations  attrac- 
tive to  workers  and  others  who  might  otherwise  migrate  to 
towns  and  cities.  Because  the  implementation  of  these  services, 
especially  rural  electrification,  began  in  earnest  only  in  the  late 
1980s,  the  plan's  impact  on  rural-urban  flow  was  as  yet  uncer- 
tain in  the  early  1990s. 

Education 

The  dominant  mode  of  transmitting  knowledge  in  the  pre- 
colonial  societies  of  the  Guinea  Coast  was  through  apprentice- 
ship as  smiths,  drummers,  or  herbalists.  By  observing  adult 
skills,  or  through  proverbs,  songs,  and  stories,  children  learned 
proper  roles  and  behavior.  Also,  at  various  stages  in  life,  espe- 
cially during  the  puberty  rites  for  young  adults,  intensive  moral 
and  ethical  instruction  from  family  or  societal  elders  was  given. 
The  purpose  of  that  "informal"  education  was  to  ensure  that 
the  individual  was  able  to  satisfy  the  basic  traditional  or  com- 
munal needs,  such  as  motherhood  for  women,  and  hunting, 
long-distance  trading,  or  farming  for  men.  It  was  also  impor- 
tant that  the  religious  sanctions  associated  with  the  various  pro- 
fessions  and  stages  in  life  be  understood  because  the 
traditional  society  saw  close  relationships  between  religious 
and  mundane  activities. 

Western-style  education  was  introduced  into  the  Gold  Coast 
by  missionaries  as  early  as  1765.  Many  of  these  institutions, 
established  by  Presbyterian  and  Methodist  missionaries,  were 
located  in  the  south  of  the  country  in  what  became  the  British 
Gold  Coast  Colony  (see  Christianity  and  Islam  in  Ghana,  this 
ch.).  In  1852  the  British  colonial  government  instituted  a  poll 
tax  to  raise  money  to  support  public  schools,  but  the  measure 
became  unpopular  and  was  abolished  in  1861.  Mission  schools 
continued  to  spread,  however,  and  by  1881  more  than  139  had 
been  established  with  an  enrollment  of  about  5,000  students. 


117 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

A  board  of  education  was  set  up  in  the  1880s  to  inspect 
schools  and  to  standardize  their  management.  Grants  were 
established  for  private  schools  that  met  government  standards, 
and  the  government  devised  regulations  for  the  recognition  of 
new  schools.  Primary  education  was  emphasized  until  limited 
secondary  education  was  introduced  in  the  early  1900s. 

After  World  War  I,  the  development  of  education  was  given 
additional  impetus  under  Governor  Guggisberg.  His  education 
policies  stressed  the  need  for  improved  teacher  training,  equal 
education  for  girls,  a  greater  emphasis  on  vocational  training, 
and  the  establishment  of  secondary  schools.  In  the  governor's 
ten-year  development  plan,  which  was  announced  in  1919,  edu- 
cation was  given  a  special  place,  partly  because  of  his  goal  of 
replacing  Europeans  with  educated  Africans  in  many  adminis- 
trative positions  within  the  country.  The  policies  were  not  fully 
implemented,  especially  at  the  secondary  and  vocational  levels, 
but  the  Achimota  School,  a  first-class  secondary  school 
designed  to  train  Ghanaians  for  the  lower  levels  of  the  civil  ser- 
vice, was  established  in  1927.  Although  English  remained  the 
principal  language  of  instruction  in  the  school  system,  vernacu- 
lar languages  were  also  allowed  in  the  primary  schools,  and  the 
publication  of  textbooks  in  these  languages  began  in  earnest. 

Stimulated  by  nationalist  ideas  of  political  and  economic 
self-determination  from  the  1930s  through  the  1940s,  popular 
demand  for  education  reached  such  proportions  that  the  com- 
bined efforts  of  the  colonial  government  and  the  missions 
could  not  satisfy  it.  The  result  was  the  opening  of  hundreds  of 
schools  by  local  groups  and  individuals.  The  Convention  Peo- 
ple's Party  (CPP)  promise  of  free  instruction  during  the  1951 
election  campaign  was  made  in  response  to  an  increasing 
demand  for  education.  Whereas  some  parents  in  the  northern 
regions  of  the  country  resisted  enrollment  of  their  children, 
many  in  the  south  encouraged  formal  instruction  because  it 
was  regarded  as  a  virtual  guarantee  of  acquiring  white-collar 
jobs  and  wage-earning  positions.  Western  education  was 
accepted  more  readily  in  the  southern  sector  of  the  country 
because  Christian  missionaries  had  been  in  that  area  longer 
than  they  had  been  in  the  north.  The  purpose  of  the  CPP's  free 
and  compulsory  education  policy  was  to  make  formal  educa- 
tion available  to  all  at  minimum  cost. 

In  1952  the  CCP-led  government  drew  up  the  Accelerated 
Development  Plan  for  Education.  The  program,  which  became 
a  reality  in  1961,  was  designed  to  provide  an  education  for 


118 


Korle  Bu  Hospital  in  Accra 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 
The  University  of  Ghana  at  Legon 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


119 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

every  child  aged  six  and  above.  To  achieve  this  goal,  the  central 
government  took  responsibility  for  teacher  training  and 
funded  schools  through  the  Ministry  of  Education.  Since  this 
time,  a  considerable  portion  of  the  national  budget  has  been 
spent  on  educating  the  population.  Various  attempts  to  shift 
the  cost  to  students  and  parents,  especially  at  the  university 
level,  have  met  great  resistance. 

The  Education  System 

The  country's  education  system  at  the  beginning  of  the 
1993-94  academic  year  comprised  primary  schools,  junior  sec- 
ondary schools,  senior  secondary  schools,  polytechnic  (techni- 
cal and  vocational)  institutions,  teacher  training  colleges,  and 
university-level  institutions. 

In  1990-91,  the  latest  year  for  which  preliminary  govern- 
ment statistics  were  available,  1.8  million  pupils  were  attending 
more  than  9,300  primary  schools;  609,000  students  were 
enrolled  in  about  5,200  junior  secondary  schools;  and  nearly 
200,000  students  were  enrolled  in  some  250  senior  secondary 
schools  (see  table  5,  Appendix).  In  the  mid-1980s,  teachers  on 
each  of  these  levels  numbered  approximately  51,000,  25,000, 
and  8,800,  respectively.  In  addition,  1989-90  enrollment  in 
Ghana's  approximately  twenty-six  polytechnic  schools  totalled 
almost  11,500  students;  the  teacher  corps  for  these  schools 
numbered  422.  Education  is  free,  although  students  have 
recently  begun  to  pay  textbook  fees.  The  Education  Act  of  1960 
foresaw  universal  education,  but  the  constraints  of  economic 
underdevelopment  meant  that  by  the  early  1990s  this  goal  had 
not  been  realized.  On  the  primary  level,  instruction  is  con- 
ducted in  the  local  vernacular,  although  English  is  taught  as  a 
second  language.  Beyond  primary  school,  however,  English  is 
the  medium  of  instruction  in  an  education  system  that  owes 
much  to  British  models. 

Before  the  introduction  of  reforms  in  the  mid-1980s,  stu- 
dents at  what  was  then  the  middle-school  level  took  either  the 
Middle  School  Leaving  Certificate  Examination  and  termi- 
nated their  studies,  or,  at  any  time  from  seventh  to  tenth  grade, 
the  Common  Entrance  Examination,  which  admitted  them  to 
secondary  or  technical  study.  With  the  traditional  six  years  of 
primary  education,  four  years  of  middle  schooling,  and  a 
seven-year  secondary  education  (five  years  of  preparation 
toward  the  Ordinary  Level  Certificate  and  two  years  of 
Advanced  Level  training)  before  entering  degree-granting 


120 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


institutions,  the  average  age  of  the  first-year  university  student 
in  Ghana  was  often  about  twenty-five. 

Most  students,  however,  did  not  continue  formal  instruction 
after  the  first  ten  years  of  education.  Of  the  145,400  students 
completing  middle  school  in  1960,  for  example,  only  14,000 
sought  secondary  education.  In  1970  only  9,300  of  the  more 
than  424,500  leaving  middle  school  were  admitted  into  second- 
ary schools.  Ministry  of  Education  data  for  the  1984-85  aca- 
demic year  showed  that  of  the  1.8  million  students  completing 
ten  years  of  primary  and  middle  schooling,  only  125,600  con- 
tinued into  secondary  schools,  while  fewer  than  20,000  entered 
vocational  and  technical  institutions.  That  same  year,  approxi- 
mately 7,900  students  were  enrolled  in  the  universities. 

Although  the  government  provides  free  tuition  to  all  chil- 
dren of  school  age,  and  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  schools 
can  be  found  all  across  the  country,  1989-90  government  statis- 
tics showed  that  more  males  continued  to  be  enrolled  in 
schools  than  females.  In  the  first  six  grades  of  the  educational 
system,  only  45  percent  of  the  students  enrolled  were  female. 
The  percentage  of  females  in  the  school  system  decreased  to  33 
percent  at  the  secondary  school  level,  to  27  percent  in  poly- 
technical  institutions,  and  to  as  low  as  19  percent  within  the 
universities.  Disparities  in  the  male-female  ratios  found  in  the 
schools  had  not  improved  significantly  by  1990-91.  The 
emphasis  on  male  education  doubtless  reflects  traditional 
social  values,  which  view  the  reproductive  abilities  of  women  as 
their  primary  role  in  life,  while  men  are  valued  as  breadwin- 
ners and,  therefore,  in  need  of  education  to  compete  in  the 
contemporary  economy  (see  The  Position  of  Women,  this  ch.). 

Despite  a  number  of  committee  reports  and  proposals  for 
educational  reform,  until  mid-1980  the  education  system  con- 
tinued to  place  emphasis  on  traditional  academic  studies.  Pro- 
ponents of  reform  argued  that  the  country's  development 
needs  required  an  education  system  that,  beginning  at  the  mid- 
dle-school level,  placed  equal  emphasis  on  training  students  in 
vocational  and  technical  skills.  It  was  further  suggested  that 
reforms  could  contribute  to  reducing  the  number  of  students 
who  dropped  out  of  school  for  lack  of  interest  in  traditional 
academic  studies. 

Partly  as  a  result  of  earlier  proposals  for  reform  and  partly  in 
keeping  with  the  government's  economic  reform  program, 
fundamental  change  in  the  educational  structure  of  the  coun- 
try was  undertaken  in  the  mid-1980s.  The  overall  goals  were  to 


121 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

make  curricula  at  all  levels  more  relevant  to  the  economic 
needs  of  the  country,  to  reduce  the  length  of  pre-university 
instruction,  and  to  improve  the  quality  of  teacher  preparation. 
Increased  enrollment  in  primary  schools  and  a  reduction  in 
the  rate  of  illiteracy  were  also  to  be  pursued.  The  reforms  were 
to  be  implemented  in  two  phases:  those  for  primary  and  mid- 
dle schools  were  to  be  introduced  in  1987-89,  and  those  for 
secondary  schools  and  the  universities,  in  1990-93. 

The  much-discussed  changes  in  education  became  a  reality 
in  1987  when  all  seventh-grade  students,  who  otherwise  would 
have  entered  the  traditional  first  year  of  middle  school,  were 
instead  admitted  into  new  junior  secondary  schools  (JSS)  to 
begin  a  three-year  combined  training  program  in  vocational, 
technical,  and  academic  studies.  The  JSS  system  was  a  radical 
change  in  the  structure  of  education  in  the  country.  It  replaced 
the  four-year  middle  school  and  the  first  three  years  of  the  tra- 
ditional five-year  secondary  school  system.  After  three  years  at 
the  JSS,  three  years  further  training  would  be  available  in 
senior  secondary  schools  (SSS),  after  which  students  could 
enter  polytechnic  institutions  or  the  universities. 

Pioneers  in  the  JSS  system  sat  for  the  first  Basic  Certificate  of 
Education  Examination  in  1990.  In  this  same  year,  seniors  of 
the  old  middle-school  system  took  the  last  Middle  School  Leav- 
ing Certificate  Examination.  Supporters  of  the  JSS  argued  that 
the  system  would  attract  more  students  into  technical,  voca- 
tional, business,  and  agricultural  institutions.  It  was  also  sug- 
gested that  those  students  who  did  not  gain  admission  into  the 
SSS  would  be  better  equipped  to  enter  the  job  market.  Results 
of  the  first  SSS  certificate  examination,  announced  in  May 
1994,  however,  showed  that  only  3.9  percent  of  students 
received  passing  marks.  This  poor  showing  was  attributed  to 
lack  of  textbooks,  equipment,  and  trained  teachers,  and  to 
inadequate  time  to  prepare  for  the  examination.  Despite  loud 
protests  from  students  and  parents,  reform  of  the  education 
system  remained  on  course. 

In  addition  to  revamping  middle-school  education,  changes 
were  also  introduced  on  all  other  educational  levels.  Fees  for 
textbooks  and  supplies  were  instituted,  primary  curricula  were 
revised,  and  food  and  housing  subsidies  were  reduced  or  elimi- 
nated in  secondary  schools  and  the  universities.  In  the  early 
1990s,  however,  the  government  appeared  to  be  moving  slowly 
in  implementing  further  proposed  reforms,  such  as  new  curric- 
ula in  secondary  schools  and  restructuring  of  the  universities. 


122 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


In  the  early  1990s,  higher  education  was  available  at  three 
institutions — the  University  of  Ghana  (located  principally  at 
Legon  outside  Accra),  founded  in  1948  as  the  University  Col- 
lege of  the  Gold  Coast;  the  University  of  Science  and  Technol- 
ogy at  Kumasi,  opened  officially  in  1952  as  the  Kumasi  College 
of  Technology;  and  the  University  of  Cape  Coast  at  Cape  Coast, 
founded  in  1961.  In  1989-90  enrollment  at  all  three  institu- 
tions totalled  9,251,  of  whom  19  percent  were  female.  In  addi- 
tion, large  numbers  of  Ghanaians  went  abroad  for  university 
education,  as  they  had  in  the  past. 

In  anticipation  that  the  newJSS  and  SSS  structures  would 
increase  the  number  of  students  seeking  advanced  technical 
training,  two  more  universities  were  proposed.  The  specialist 
institutions  or  colleges  at  Winneba,  which  offered  post-second- 
ary teacher  training  in  such  subjects  as  art,  music,  and  physical 
education,  were  to  be  upgraded  into  an  independent  university 
college  or  were  to  be  given  associate  relations  with  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cape  Coast.  In  September  1993,  the  University  of  Devel- 
opment Studies  at  Tamale  opened.  Designed  initially  to  train 
agricultural  specialists,  it  will  eventually  also  offer  degrees  in 
health  and  development  studies. 

Problems  in  Education 

At  least  two  major  educational  issues  faced  Ghana  in  the 
early  1990s — the  effort  to  shift  part  of  the  expense  of  educa- 
tion onto  students,  especially  in  the  universities,  and  the  future 
of  the  JSS  innovation.  Since  the  introduction  of  the  Acceler- 
ated Development  Plan  for  Education  in  1952,  the  central  gov- 
ernment has  shouldered  much  of  the  financial  burden  of 
education.  In  1972,  for  example,  about  20.1  percent  of  the 
total  central  government  expenditure  was  spent  on  education. 
This  figure  rose  to  25.7  percent  in  1989.  Compared  with  Nige- 
ria, where  only  4.5  percent  and  2.8  percent  of  the  total  govern- 
ment expenditure  was  spent  on  education  in  1972  and  1989, 
respectively,  the  Ghana  figure  was  high  even  among  its  peers. 

Efforts  by  the  central  government  to  shift  the  cost  of  educa- 
tion onto  students,  particularly  at  the  university  level,  have 
been  challenged.  But  despite  the  many  demonstrations  that 
were  organized  by  the  various  student  representative  councils 
and  the  National  Union  of  Ghanaian  Students,  the  govern- 
ment resolved  in  the  latter  part  of  the  1980s  to  make  university 
students  pay  for  their  boarding  and  lodging  through  loans. 
This  policy,  among  others,  was  the  cause  of  the  unsettled  rela- 


123 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


tionship  between  university  students  and  the  government  that 
characterized  the  early  1990s.  In  March  1993,  an  especially  seri- 
ous confrontation  occurred  in  Accra  between  university  stu- 
dents and  police  over  the  proposed  charges.  Such  protests 
notwithstanding,  the  Ministry  of  Education  proceeded  with  the 
changes  for  university  funding  on  grounds  that  they  were  in 
line  with  the  nation's  Economic  Recovery  Program  introduced 
in  1983  (see  The  Economic  Recovery  Program,  ch.  3). 

The  introduction  of  the  JSS  system  was  also  problematic.  It 
had  been  agreed  upon  after  the  Dzobo  Committee,  chaired  by 
N.K.  Dzobo  of  the  University  of  Cape  Coast,  reported  in  1974 
that  the  nation's  educational  establishment  needed  overhaul- 
ing. In  fact,  this  committee  afforded  education  specialists  and 
the  public  the  opportunity  to  respond  to  a  1972  Ministry  of 
Education  proposal  for  the  introduction  of  junior  secondary 
schools.  Despite  the  favorable  evaluation  of  the  Ministry  of 
Education  proposal  by  the  Dzobo  Committee,  the  proposed 
changes  in  the  structure  and  content  of  primary  and  secondary 
education  were  never  implemented,  perhaps  because  of  the 
difficult  economic  situation  of  the  country  in  the  mid-1970s. 

When  the  JSS  system  was  implemented  in  1987,  it  was  hailed 
by  its  supporters  as  the  answer  to  the  country's  educational, 
social,  and  economic  problems.  Detractors,  however,  con- 
demned it  because  of  the  limited  time  allowed  for  the  develop- 
ment of  necessary  infrastructure,  such  as  the  provision  of 
workshops,  before  the  system  went  into  effect.  As  a  community- 
sponsored  program,  the  JSS  became  a  source  of  endless  irrita- 
tion to  parents  and  guardians  who  had  to  contribute  to  build- 
ing and  equipping  JSS  workshops.  There  was  also  the  concern 
that  the  JSS  system  would  ultimately  lead  to  an  unfair  distribu- 
tion of  educational  resources  because  wealthier  communities 
were  likely  to  provide  better  facilities  than  those  in  poorer 
areas.  Finally,  it  was  argued  that  the  JSS  program  did  not  chal- 
lenge students  enough  because,  unlike  the  former  Middle 
School  Leaving  Certificate  Examinations,  all  students  writing 
the  Basic  Certificate  of  Education  Examination  conducted  for 
the  JSS  received  certificates  of  participation.  The  validity  of 
these  arguments,  as  well  as  the  long-term  impact  of  the  new 
structure  and  content  of  education  on  the  nation's  develop- 
ment, remained  to  be  demonstrated  in  the  early  1990s. 

Adult  Education 

A  mass  literacy  campaign  was  started  in  1951  as  part  of  an 
overall  community  development  program.  The  primary  aim 


124 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

was  to  teach  adults  to  read  and  write  in  their  own  languages  as 
well  as  in  English.  Efforts  continued  during  the  1950s  and  the 
1960s,  and  in  the  1970s  an  extensive  literacy  campaign  was 
launched  under  the  direction  of  the  Ministry  of  Labor  and 
Social  Welfare  using  mass  education  teams.  Literacy  classes  for 
adults  were  also  conducted  by  local  units  of  the  Peoples'  Educa- 
tion Association,  a  voluntary  organization  founded  in  1949. 
This  group,  which  included  teachers,  graduates,  students,  and 
interested  persons,  had  branches  throughout  the  country. 
Despite  such  organizational  efforts,  it  was  estimated  by  the 
United  Nations  in  1970  that  about  70  percent  of  the  nation's 
inhabitants  above  the  age  of  fifteen  (57  percent  of  males  and 
82  percent  of  females)  were  illiterate.  The  1970  figure  was  a  5 
percent  improvement  over  an  estimated  1960  adult  literacy 
rate  of  25  percent. 

Responding  to  the  continued  high  level  of  illiteracy  in  the 
country,  the  government  established  the  Institute  of  Adult 
Education  in  1970  at  the  University  of  Ghana.  The  Institute  was 
to  furnish  resident  tutorial  staff  drawn  from  universities,  col- 
leges, and  secondary  schools  to  teach  a  wide  range  of  classes  in 
different  parts  of  the  country  The  Institute  also  organized  an 
annual  New  Year  School  attended  by  leading  educators,  gov- 
ernment officials,  and  numerous  social  welfare  organizations. 
At  such  times,  the  achievements  of  the  Institute  as  well  as  the 
future  direction  of  adult  education  in  Ghana  were  assessed. 

During  the  1989  New  Year  School  held  at  the  University  of 
Ghana,  for  example,  the  relationship  between  adult  education 
and  economic  development  was  emphasized  in  a  speech  read 
by  Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John  Rawlings,  the  head  of  state. 
Also  in  1989,  reliable  press  reports  held  that  the  adult  literacy 
rate  in  Ghana  was  about  40  percent  of  the  total  population;  of 
the  60  percent  of  the  population  that  was  illiterate,  57  percent 
was  female.  Even  though  the  1989  figure  was  an  improvement 
over  that  of  1970,  the  National  Council  on  Women  and  Devel- 
opment still  expressed  concern  and  described  the  low  percent- 
age of  literate  adult  females  as  alarming.  The  council 
attributed  female  illiteracy  to  high  dropout  rates  in  the  ele- 
mentary schools  and  called  on  the  government  to  find  ways  to 
enforce  compulsory  education  in  the  country  (see  The  Posi- 
tion of  Women,  this  ch.).  Despite  such  calls  for  educational 
improvement,  there  was  little  reason  to  believe  that  the  situa- 
tion with  respect  to  literacy  had  changed  significantly  by  the 
mid-1990s. 


125 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

As  part  of  an  effort  to  improve  the  overall  awareness  of 
women's  education,  various  nursing  and  para-medical  associa- 
tions organized  drama  troupes  as  a  means  of  instructing  illiter- 
ate as  well  as  rural  women  about  the  importance  of  nutrition, 
of  child  care,  of  family  planning,  and  of  sending  their  children 
to  school.  In  the  early  1990s,  the  impact  of  such  activities  on 
the  nation's  literacy  rate  could  not  yet  be  assessed. 

Information  on  the  geography  of  Ghana  appears  in  a  variety 
of  sources.  E.A.  Boateng's  A  Geography  of  Ghana,  published  in 
1966,  is  probably  the  most  valuable.  Basic  archaeological  data 
are  in  publications  by  Timothy  F.  Garrard,  Kwaku  Effah- 
Gyamfi,  David  Kiyaga-Mulindwa,  Merrick  Posnansky,  Peter  L. 
Shinnie,  and  L.B.Crossland.  Kwamina  Dickson's  A  Historical 
Geography  of  Ghana  and  James  Anquandah's  Rediscovering 
Ghana's  Past  are  recommended  as  good  reconstructions  of 
Ghana's  past. 

Ethnographic  information  on  the  peoples  of  Ghana  may  be 
found  in  the  works  of  Robert  Sutherland  Rattray,  KwabenaJ.H. 
Nketia,  Kwesi  Yanka,  Kofi  Abrefa  Busia,  Minion  Morrison,  Mar- 
garet J.  Field,  Jack  Goody,  and  Marion  Johnson.  For  more 
recent  information,  see  M.E.  Kropp  Dakubu's  The  Languages  of 
Ghana. 

Much  of  the  recent  literature  on  Ghana  describes  changes  in 
traditional  society  as  it  adjusts  to  the  contemporary  world. 
These  often  focus  on  the  position  of  chiefs  in  relation  to  the 
modern  state.  Kofi  Abrefa  Busia's  The  Position  of  the  Chief  in  the 
Modern  Political  System  of  Ashanti,  A.  Adu  Boahen's  Ghana:  Evolu- 
tion and  Change  in  the  Nineteenth  and  Twentieth  Centuries,  and 
Kwame  Arhin's  Traditional  Rule  in  Ghana:  Past  and  Present  are 
among  the  most  impressive.  Also  significant  is  Peter  K.  Sar- 
pong's  Ghana  in  Retrospect:  Some  Aspects  of  Ghanaian  Culture.  An 
extensive  bibliography  on  the  cultural  environment  of  the 
country  can  be  found  in  E.Y.  Amedekey's  The  Culture  of  Ghana: 
A  Bibliography. 

Population  figures  on  Ghana  and  other  statistical  informa- 
tion can  be  found  in  the  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statistics  published  by 
the  Government  of  Ghana,  Statistical  Service.  The  same  office 
also  published  the  Preliminary  Report  on  the  1984  Census.  For 
complete  bibliographical  information  on  the  country's  census 
figures,  see  Population  of  Ghana:  An  Annotated  Bibliography, 


126 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


1980-1988,  published  by  the  Regional  Institute  for  Population 
Studies  at  the  University  of  Ghana.  Excellent  sources  on 
women  and  on  economic  and  social  developments  include  the 
works  of  such  scholars  as  Claire  Robertson,  Christine  Oppong, 
Mason  Oppenheim,  and  Gwendolyn  Mikell.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


127 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Gold  weight  in  the  form  of  a  striking  scorpion  (As  ante) 


GHANA'S  ECONOMY  HAS  LEFT  an  indelible  imprint  on  the 
country's  social  and  political  structures.  Just  as  the  presence  of 
gold  gave  rise  to  the  Asante  confederacy  and  empire  and 
attracted  European  traders  and  colonial  rulers,  so,  too,  were 
modern-day  politicians  moved  to  try  to  protect  the  country's 
wealth  by  establishing  the  first  socialist  regime  in  twentieth-cen- 
tury Africa.  As  the  ambitious  plans  initiated  by  Ghana's  first 
president,  Kwame  Nkrumah,  unraveled  in  the  late  1960s,  how- 
ever, military  officers  seized  control  of  the  country  and  prom- 
ised to  overturn  what  they  perceived  as  a  corrupt  ruling  class 
enriching  itself  from  the  nation's  coffers.  In  the  1980s,  military 
and  civilian  officials  failed  to  revive  the  economy  through  strin- 
gent anti-corruption  measures  and  embarked  instead  upon  a 
restructuring  of  the  economy. 

The  transformation  of  Ghana's  economy  undertaken  in  the 
1980s  was  considered  a  test  case  for  "structural  adjustment" 
prescriptions  advocated  by  international  banking  institutions. 
Faced  with  growing  impoverishment  in  Africa  as  well  as  in 
much  of  the  so-called  developing  world,  the  World  Bank  and 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  proposed  radical  programs 
to  revive  troubled  economies  and  to  restore  their  productivity. 
The  government  of  Jerry  John  Rawlings  turned  to  these  agen- 
cies in  1983  and  accepted  their  recommendations  in  exchange 
for  assistance  packages  to  ease  Ghana's  economic  and  social 
transformation.  Foremost  among  the  changes  enacted  in 
Ghana  were  the  disengagement  of  the  government  from  an 
active  role  in  the  economy  and  the  encouragement  of  free-mar- 
ket forces  to  promote  the  efficient  and  productive  develop- 
ment of  local  resources.  The  reformers  cut  government 
budgets,  privatized  state  enterprises,  devalued  the  currency, 
and  rebuilt  industrial  infrastructure  by  means  of  assistance  pro- 
grams. As  in  other  countries  of  Africa  in  the  1980s,  government 
was  identified  as  the  problem,  and  free-market  forces  were  seen 
as  the  solution. 

By  the  1990s,  the  effects  of  structural  adjustment  in  Ghana 
were  beginning  to  be  assessed.  According  to  the  World  Bank 
and  other  Western  financial  institutions,  the  economy  had 
become  much  more  stable,  and  production  was  on  a  more 
solid  footing  than  it  had  been  a  decade  earlier.  Exports  were 
up,  government  deficits  had  been  reduced,  and  inflation  was 


131 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

down.  Many  Ghanaians,  however,  questioned  whether  the 
structural  adjustment  benefited  all  Ghanaians  or  just  a  few  sec- 
tors of  the  economy.  Critics  of  the  World  Bank  charged,  more- 
over, that  it  concentrated  on  infrastructure  such  as  airports, 
roads,  and  other  macro-economic  projects  that  did  little  to 
improve  the  lives  of  the  average  Ghanaian. 

Under  the  sway  of  free-market  forces,  production  had 
increased  in  Ghana's  traditionally  strong  sectors,  cocoa  and 
gold,  thereby  reverting  to  the  pre-independence  economic 
structure;  still,  a  more  broadly  based  economy  had  not  devel- 
oped. In  addition,  substantial  loans  had  been  incurred  by  the 
government  to  promote  those  sectors — at  the  expense  of  cur- 
rent budget  expenditures  such  as  health  and  education — with- 
out a  compensatory  increase  in  government  revenues. 
Ironically,  the  tax  breaks  prescribed  to  encourage  these  sectors 
worked  against  increased  government  revenues,  so  that  by 
1992  tax  revenues  began  to  drop.  In  addition,  jobs  not  only 
had  been  cut  from  the  once  bloated  public  sector  but  also  had 
not  expanded  in  the  more  successful  export  sectors.  Although 
the  government  claimed  its  finances  were  much  healthier  in 
the  1990s  than  in  the  1980s,  the  long-term  economic  and  social 
impact  of  structural  adjustment  was  uncertain. 

Relying  heavily  on  the  exploitation  of  some  non-renewable 
and  even  endangered  resources,  Ghana's  economy  will  have  to 
expand  to  create  a  broader  and  better  balanced  economy.  In 
addition  to  cocoa,  Ghana's  leading  export  commodities  are 
gold,  a  non-renewable  resource,  and  timber,  the  harvesting  of 
which  has  included  more  than  eighteen  endangered  species  of 
trees  and  has  led  to  alarming  deforestation.  Furthermore, 
Ghana's  ocean  waters  are  seriously  overfished,  leading  the  gov- 
ernment to  ban  the  catching  of  shellfish. 

According  to  the  government,  Ghana's  resources  could  be 
used  to  develop  local  manufacturing,  the  goal  Nkrumah  tried 
to  reach  through  direct  state  intervention  thirty  years  ago. 
Local  manufacturing  could  create  jobs,  cut  the  import  bill,  and 
provide  a  more  diversified  economic  base.  The  question  for 
Ghana  is  whether  free-market  forces  will  be  more  successful  in 
promoting  healthy  economic  expansion  than  the  failed  poli- 
cies of  direct  state  intervention. 

Historical  Background 

Endowed  with  gold  and  oil  palms  and  situated  between  the 
trans-Saharan  trade  routes  and  the  African  coastline  visited  by 


132 


The  Economy 


successive  European  traders,  the  area  known  today  as  Ghana 
has  been  involved  in  all  phases  of  Africa's  economic  develop- 
ment during  the  last  thousand  years.  As  the  economic  fortunes 
of  African  societies  have  waxed  and  waned,  so,  too,  have 
Ghana's,  leaving  that  country  in  the  early  1990s  in  a  state  of 
arrested  development,  unable  to  make  the  "leap"  to  Africa's 
next,  as  yet  uncertain,  phase  of  economic  evolution. 

As  early  as  the  thirteenth  century,  present-day  Ghana  was 
drawn  into  long-distance  trade,  in  large  part  because  of  its  gold 
reserves.  The  trans-Saharan  trade,  one  of  the  most  wide-rang- 
ing trading  networks  of  pre-modern  times,  involved  an 
exchange  of  European,  North  African,  and  Saharan  commodi- 
ties for  the  products  of  the  African  savannas  and  forests,  includ- 
ing gold,  kola  nuts,  and  slaves.  Present-day  Ghana,  named  the 
Gold  Coast  by  European  traders,  was  an  important  source  of 
the  gold  traded  across  the  Sahara.  Centralized  states  such  as 
Asante  controlled  prices  by  regulating  production  and  market- 
ing of  this  precious  commodity  (see  The  Pre-Colonial  Period, 
ch.  1).  As  European  navigational  techniques  improved  in  the 
fifteenth  century,  Portuguese  and  later  Dutch  and  English  trad- 
ers tried  to  circumvent  the  Saharan  trade  by  sailing  directly  to 
its  southernmost  source  on  the  West  African  coast.  In  1482  the 
Portuguese  built  a  fortified  trading  post  at  Elmina  and  began 
purchasing  gold,  ivory,  and  pepper  from  African  coastal  mer- 
chants. 

Although  Africans  for  centuries  had  exported  their  raw 
materials — ivory,  gold,  kola  nuts — in  exchange  for  imports 
ranging  from  salt  to  foreign  metals,  the  introduction  of  the 
Atlantic  slave  trade  in  the  early  sixteenth  century  changed  the 
nature  of  African  export  production  in  fundamental  ways  (see 
Arrival  of  the  Europeans,  ch.  1).  An  increasing  number  of  Gha- 
naians sought  to  enrich  themselves  by  capturing  fellow  Africans 
in  warfare  and  selling  them  to  slave  dealers  from  North  Amer- 
ica and  South  America.  The  slaves  were  transported  to  the 
coast  and  sold  through  African  merchants,  using  the  same 
routes  and  connections  through  which  gold  and  ivory  had  for- 
merly flowed.  In  return,  Africans  often  received  guns  as  pay- 
ment, which  could  be  used  to  capture  more  slaves  and,  more 
importantly,  to  gain  and  preserve  political  power. 

An  estimated  ten  million  Africans,  at  least  half  a  million 
from  the  Gold  Coast,  left  the  continent  in  this  manner.  Some 
economists  have  argued  that  the  slave  trade  increased  African 
economic  resources  and  therefore  did  not  necessarily  impede 


133 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

development,  but  others,  notably  historian  Walter  Rodney, 
have  argued  that  by  removing  the  continent's  most  valuable 
resource — humans — the  slave  trade  robbed  Africa  of  unknown 
invention,  innovation,  and  production.  Rodney  further  argues 
that  the  slave  trade  fueled  a  process  of  underdevelopment, 
whereby  African  societies  came  to  rely  on  the  export  of 
resources  crucial  to  their  own  economic  growth,  thereby  pre- 
cluding local  development  of  those  resources.  Although  some 
scholars  maintain  that  the  subsequent  economic  history  of  this 
region  supports  Rodney's  interpretation,  no  consensus  exists 
on  this  point.  Indeed,  in  recent  years,  some  historians  not  only 
have  rejected  Rodney's  interpretation  but  also  have  advanced 
the  notion  that  it  is  the  Africans  themselves  rather  than  an 
array  of  external  forces  that  are  to  blame  for  the  continent's 
economic  plight. 

When  the  slave  trade  ended  in  the  early  years  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  the  local  economy  became  the  focus  of  the  so- 
called  legitimate  trade,  which  the  emerging  industrial  powers 
of  Europe  encouraged  as  a  source  of  materials  and  markets  to 
aid  their  own  production  and  sales.  The  British,  in  particular, 
gained  increasing  control  over  the  region  throughout  the  nine- 
teenth century  and  promoted  the  production  of  palm  oil  and 
timber  as  well  as  the  continuation  of  gold  production.  In 
return,  Africans  were  inundated  with  imports  of  consumer 
goods  that,  unlike  the  luxuries  or  locally  unavailable  imports  of 
the  trans-Saharan  trade,  quickly  displaced  African  products, 
especially  textiles. 

In  1878  cacao  trees  were  introduced  from  the  Americas. 
Cocoa  quickly  became  the  colony's  major  export;  Ghana  pro- 
duced more  than  half  the  global  yield  by  the  1920s.  African 
farmers  used  kinship  networks  like  business  corporations  to 
spread  cocoa  cultivation  throughout  large  areas  of  southern 
Ghana.  Legitimate  trade  restored  the  overall  productivity  of 
Ghana's  economy;  however,  the  influx  of  European  goods 
began  to  displace  indigenous  industries,  and  farmers  focused 
more  on  cash  crops  than  on  essential  food  crops  for  local  con- 
sumption. 

When  Ghana  gained  its  independence  from  Britain  in  1957, 
the  economy  appeared  stable  and  prosperous.  Ghana  was  the 
world's  leading  producer  of  cocoa,  boasted  a  well-developed 
infrastructure  to  service  trade,  and  enjoyed  a  relatively 
advanced  education  system.  At  independence,  President 
Kwame  Nkrumah  sought  to  use  the  apparent  stability  of  the 


134 


The  Economy 


Ghanaian  economy  as  a  springboard  for  economic  diversifica- 
tion and  expansion.  He  began  the  process  of  moving  Ghana 
from  a  primarily  agricultural  economy  to  a  mixed  agricultural- 
industrial  one.  Using  cocoa  revenues  as  security,  Nkrumah 
took  out  loans  to  establish  industries  that  would  produce 
import  substitutes  as  well  as  process  many  of  Ghana's  exports. 
Nkrumah's  plans  were  ambitious  and  grounded  in  the  desire  to 
reduce  Ghana's  vulnerability  to  world  trade.  Unfortunately,  the 
price  of  cocoa  collapsed  in  the  mid-1960s,  destroying  the  fun- 
damental stability  of  the  economy  and  making  it  nearly  impos- 
sible for  Nkrumah  to  continue  his  plans.  Pervasive  corruption 
exacerbated  these  problems.  In  1966  a  group  of  military  offic- 
ers overthrew  Nkrumah  and  inherited  a  nearly  bankrupt  coun- 
try. 

Since  1966  Ghana  has  been  caught  in  a  cycle  of  debt,  weak 
commodity  demand,  and  currency  overvaluation,  which  has 
resulted  in  the  decay  of  productive  capacities  and  a  crippling 
foreign  debt.  Once  the  price  of  cocoa  fell  in  the  mid-1960s, 
Ghana  obtained  less  of  the  foreign  currency  necessary  to  repay 
loans,  the  value  of  which  jumped  almost  ten  times  between 
1960  and  1966.  Some  economists  recommended  that  Ghana 
devalue  its  currency,  the  cedi  (£;  for  value  of  the  cedi — see 
Glossary),  to  make  its  cocoa  price  more  attractive  on  the  world 
market,  but  devaluation  would  also  have  rendered  loan  repay- 
ment in  United  States  dollars  much  more  difficult.  Moreover, 
such  a  devaluation  would  have  increased  the  costs  of  imports, 
both  for  consumers  and  nascent  industries. 

Until  the  early  1980s,  successive  governments  refused  to 
devalue  the  currency  (with  the  exception  of  the  government  of 
Kofi  Abrefa  Busia,  which  devalued  the  cedi  in  1971  and  was 
promptly  overthrown).  Cocoa  prices  languished,  discouraging 
cocoa  production  altogether  and  leading  to  smuggling  of  exist- 
ing cocoa  crops  to  neighboring  countries,  where  francs  rather 
than  cedis  could  be  obtained  in  payment.  As  production  and 
official  exports  collapsed,  revenue  necessary  for  the  survival  of 
the  economy  was  obtained  through  the  procurement  of  further 
loans,  thereby  intensifying  a  self-destructive  cycle  driven  by 
debt  and  reliance  on  vulnerable  world  commodity  markets. 

By  the  early  1980s,  Ghana's  economy  was  in  an  advanced 
state  of  collapse.  Per  capita  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see 
Glossary)  showed  negative  growth  throughout  the  1960s  and 
fell  by  3.2  percent  per  year  from  1970  to  1981.  Most  important 
was  the  decline  in  cocoa  production,  which  fell  by  half  between 


135 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

the  mid-1960s  and  the  late  1970s,  drastically  reducing  Ghana's 
share  of  the  world  market  from  about  one-third  in  the  early 
1970s  to  only  one-eighth  in  1982-83.  At  the  same  time,  mineral 
production  fell  by  32  percent;  gold  production  declined  by  47 
percent,  diamonds  by  67  percent,  manganese  by  43  percent, 
and  bauxite  by  46  percent.  Inflation  averaged  more  than  50 
percent  a  year  between  1976  and  1981,  hitting  116.5  percent  in 
1981.  Real  minimum  wages  dropped  from  an  index  of  75  in 
1975  to  one  of  15.4  in  1981.  Tax  revenue  fell  from  17  percent 
of  GDP  in  1973  to  only  5  percent  in  1983,  and  actual  imports 
by  volume  in  1982  were  only  43  percent  of  average  1975-76  lev- 
els. Productivity,  the  standard  of  living,  and  the  government's 
resources  had  plummeted  dramatically. 

In  1981  a  military  government  under  the  leadership  of 
Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John  Rawlings  came  to  power.  Calling 
itself  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (PNDC),  the 
Rawlings  regime  initially  blamed  the  nation's  economic  prob- 
lems on  the  corruption  of  previous  governments.  Rawlings 
soon  discovered,  however,  that  Ghana's  problems  were  the 
result  of  forces  more  complicated  than  economic  abuse.  Fol- 
lowing a  severe  drought  in  1983,  the  government  accepted 
stringent  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary) 
and  World  Bank  (see  Glossary)  loan  conditions  and  instituted 
the  Economic  Recovery  Program  (ERP). 

Signaling  a  dramatic  shift  in  policies,  the  ERP  fundamentally 
changed  the  government's  social,  political,  and  economic  ori- 
entation. Aimed  primarily  at  enabling  Ghana  to  repay  its  for- 
eign debts,  the  ERP  exemplified  the  structural  adjustment 
policies  formulated  by  international  banking  and  donor  insti- 
tutions in  the  1980s.  The  program  emphasized  the  promotion 
of  the  export  sector  and  an  enforced  fiscal  stringency,  which 
together  aimed  to  eradicate  budget  deficits.  The  PNDC  fol- 
lowed the  ERP  faithfully  and  gained  the  support  of  the  interna- 
tional financial  community.  The  effects  of  the  ERP  on  the 
domestic  economy,  however,  led  to  a  lowered  standard  of  living 
for  most  Ghanaians. 

Overview  of  the  Current  Economy 

In  the  early  1990s,  Ghana's  economic  recovery  still  appeared 
uneven  and  was  geared  primarily  to  the  export  rather  than 
domestic  market.  GDP  had  risen  by  an  average  of  5  percent  per 
year  since  1984,  inflation  had  been  reduced  to  about  20  per- 
cent, and  export  earnings  had  reached  US$1  billion.  Most  pro- 


136 


The  Economy 


duction  came  from  the  export  sector,  and  by  the  1992-93  crop 
year,  cocoa  production  surpassed  300,000  tons,  placing  Ghana 
third  in  the  world.  In  1990  exports  of  minerals — primarily  gold 
but  also  diamonds,  manganese,  and  bauxite — brought  in 
US$234  million,  an  increase  of  23.2  percent  from  the  year 
before  (see  fig.  7).  Nevertheless,  salaries  were  low,  and  because 
the  cost  of  public  services  continued  to  rise,  Ghana's  poor  bore 
the  brunt  of  the  negative  effects  of  the  austerity  program. 

Despite  devaluations  by  the  Rawlings  regime  and  rising 
exports,  the  government  has  been  unable  to  fulfill  a  key  stabili- 
zation goal  of  reducing  the  trade  and  current  account  deficits. 
To  stimulate  production  in  various  sectors,  the  government  has 
incurred  loans  to  finance  imports  of  necessary  inputs  such  as 
machinery,  fertilizer,  and  petroleum.  As  a  result,  the  country's 
foreign  debt  exceeded  US$4  billion  in  1991.  According  to 
World  Bank  estimates,  the  country's  debt  continued  to  rise  in 
1992,  and  was  equivalent  to  almost  63  percent  of  gross  national 
product  (GNP — see  Glossary).  In  1992  the  debt  service  ratio 
(debt  service  as  a  proportion  of  exports)  was  27  percent,  an 
improvement  over  late  1980s  levels,  which  averaged  as  high  as 
62.5  percent.  To  cover  the  deficits  that  result  from  loans  and 
increased  imports,  the  government  came  to  rely  on  rising  levels 
of  foreign  aid,  with  net  aid  disbursements  increasing  to  an  esti- 
mated US$550  million  by  1990.  Unfortunately,  foreign  invest- 
ment, compared  with  aid,  was  weak  except  in  the  mining 
sector,  and  domestic  savings  were  insufficient  to  finance  the 
country's  ambitious  development  projects. 

Government  policies  have  produced  mixed  results  in  terms 
of  productivity  and  debt,  and  they  have  also  incurred  signifi- 
cant social  costs  through  job  elimination  and  reduced  public 
expenditure  policies.  The  government  has  addressed  this  prob- 
lem by  launching  a  special  initiative  to  create  40,000  jobs  pro- 
viding services  to  the  poorest  groups.  Spending  on  health  and 
education  also  has  increased  as  a  proportion  of  GDP,  but  the 
central  government  believes  that  major  poverty  alleviation  can 
come  only  with  even  faster  and  higher  economic  growth. 

Structure  of  the  Economy 

Most  government  efforts  to  restore  the  productivity  of  the 
Ghanaian  economy  have  been  directed  toward  boosting  the 
country's  exports.  These  policies,  however,  have  had  numerous 
consequences.  Following  the  initiation  of  the  ERP  in  1983  and 
the  devastating  drought  of  1983,  Ghana's  GDP  has  registered 


137 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


®     National  capital 


Figure  7.  Economic  Activity,  1994 

steady  growth,  most  of  it  attributable  to  the  export  sector, 
including  cocoa  and  minerals  and,  to  some  extent,  timber  pro- 
cessing. The  cost  of  this  growth  is  apparent,  however,  in 
Ghana's  growing  external  debts,  which  have  financed  rehabili- 
tation of  the  export  sector,  and  in  the  country's  steady  rate  of 
inflation  which  has  curbed  consumer  imports.  The  govern- 
ment has  tried  with  limited  success  to  avoid  some  of  the  coun- 
try's historical  pitfalls  by  broadening  the  range  of  both  exports 


138 


The  Economy 


and  trading  partners.  Nevertheless,  prices  for  the  goods  that 
most  Ghanaians  purchase  have  been  rising  faster  than  the 
wages  they  receive  for  their  work. 

Gross  Domestic  Product 

In  current  prices,  Ghana's  GDP  rose  from  £511  billion  in 
1986  to  £3  trillion  in  1992.  In  constant  1987  prices,  these  GDP 
figures  amounted  to  £713  billion  (US$4.62  billion)  in  1986  and 
£934  billion  (US$6.06  billion)  in  1992  (see  table  6,  Appendix). 

During  the  1980s,  Ghana's  economy  registered  strong 
growth  of  approximately  5  percent  per  year  because  of  a  rever- 
sal in  the  steadily  declining  production  of  the  previous  decade. 
Ghana's  worst  years  were  1982  and  1983,  when  the  country  was 
hit  with  the  worst  drought  in  fifty  years,  bush  fires  that 
destroyed  crops,  and  the  lowest  cocoa  prices  of  the  postwar 
period.  Growth  throughout  the  remainder  of  the  decade 
reflected  the  pace  of  the  economic  recovery,  but  output 
remained  weak  in  comparison  with  1970  production  levels. 
The  same  was  true  of  consumption,  minimum  wages,  and 
social  services. 

Growth  fell  off  considerably  in  1990  when  another  drought 
caused  real  GDP  growth  to  decline  by  nearly  two  percentage 
points.  Government  estimates  claimed  that  real  GDP  growth  in 
1993  was  6.1  percent,  which  reflected  a  recovery  in  cocoa  out- 
put and  an  increase  in  gold  production.  At  the  same  time, 
gross  domestic  fixed  investment  rose  from  3.5  percent  of  the 
total  in  1982  to  12.9  percent  in  1992.  The  share  of  public  con- 
sumption in  GDP  fell  from  a  peak  of  11.1  percent  in  1986  to 
9.9  percent  in  1988,  but  appeared  to  have  risen  again  to  13.3 
percent  in  1992. 

Significant  changes  have  taken  place  in  the  structure  of 
GDP  since  the  ERP  began.  Agriculture  continues  to  be  the  bed- 
rock of  Ghana's  economy,  accounting  for  more  than  48  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  1991.  Agriculture's  long-term  importance  has 
declined,  however,  in  favor  of  that  of  industry,  the  contribution 
of  which  to  GDP  more  than  doubled  from  1988  to  1991,  when 
it  constituted  almost  16  percent  of  GDP,  and  in  favor  of  ser- 
vices, the  contribution  of  which  was  35.3  percent  in  1991.  Nota- 
ble changes  have  also  occurred  within  the  broader  sectors: 
cocoa's  share  rose  from  5.6  percent  in  1983  to  9.5  percent  in 
1991;  manufacturing's  contribution  increased  from  3.9  percent 
to  8.7  percent;  and  construction  output  from  1.5  percent  to  3.5 
percent  (see  fig.  8;  table  7,  Appendix). 


139 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Debt  and  Inflation 

ERP  policies  during  the  1980s  resulted  in  increased  external 
debts  as  well  as  in  relatively  high  inflation  rates  (see  table  8, 
Appendix).  Most  ERP  projects  were  funded  by  foreign  loans, 
notably  from  the  IMF.  At  the  same  time,  the  government 
repeatedly  devalued  the  country's  currency  to  raise  producer 
prices  for  exports  and  to  encourage  production,  but  devalua- 
tion also  led  to  price  rises  on  all  other  goods  as  well.  ERP 
attempts  to  promote  production  have,  at  least  in  the  short 
term,  resulted  in  higher  debts  and  inflation. 

World  Bank  figures  show  that  Ghana's  total  external  debt 
exceeded  US$4  billion  by  1991;  this  figure  rose  to  nearly 
US$4.3  billion  in  1992.  The  external  deficit  and  requirements 
for  repayments  on  principal  were  met  through  additional 
loans.  The  debt  figures  revealed  a  strong  reliance  on  official 
creditors,  who  accounted  for  about  92  percent  of  public  dis- 
bursed debt,  and  on  concessional  funding,  which  approached 
60  percent  of  total  external  debt  in  1992.  In  addition,  Ghana 
began  to  borrow  on  international  capital  markets  in  1991.  Nev- 
ertheless, the  country's  debt  service  ratio  fell  at  an  annual  aver- 
age of  25  percent  in  1991  and  1992,  reflecting  repayment  of 
large  IMF  obligations  and  the  ending  of  the  government's  use 
of  IMF  funding  at  the  end  of  1991.  An  additional  factor  was 
debt  cancellation  by  a  number  of  leading  bilateral  creditors 
totaling  US$1.5  billion  since  1989. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  government  was  unable  to  reduce 
high  inflation  significantly.  Although  down  from  the  staggering 
levels  of  the  early  1980s  when  inflation  hit  123  percent  because 
of  drought,  inflation  in  the  following  six  years  averaged  almost 
30  percent.  Recovery  in  agricultural  output  in  1984  and  1985 
helped  shrink  inflation  rates,  but  a  marginal  decline  in  food 
production  in  1986  was  accompanied  by  an  upward  trend  in 
inflation.  For  the  next  four  years,  ever  higher  food  prices, 
driven  by  devaluation,  contributed  greatly  to  high  inflation.  By 
late  1994,  the  country's  inflation  rate  stood  at  about  28  per- 
cent. 

Trade 

The  promotion  of  Ghana's  foreign  trade  has  been  central  to 
all  government  plans  to  revive  the  economy  since  1983.  Under 
the  ERP,  export-producing  industries  received  the  most  direct 
support;  they  also  received  the  most  indirect  support  through 


140 


The  Economy 


the  improvement  of  their  proximate  infrastructure.  By  promot- 
ing exports,  the  government  sought  to  obtain  foreign 
exchange  essential  to  repay  debts  and  to  ease  the  country's 
restrictions  on  imports.  Imports,  of  course,  are  also  necessary 
to  upgrade  many  of  the  export  industries  hamstrung  for  lack  of 
equipment. 

Prior  to  1983,  economic  conditions  conspired  to  erode  the 
terms  of  trade  to  such  an  extent  that  Ghanaians  had  reverted 
to  smuggling  goods  across  the  borders  as  well  as  to  trading  on 
the  black  market  on  a  significant  scale.  Ghanaians  who  had 
anything  to  sell  could  multiply  their  earnings  by  selling  their 
goods  in  French-speaking  countries,  especially  neighboring 
Cote  d'lvoire,  and  then  changing  the  resultant  francs  into  cedis 
at  black-market  rates.  Smuggling  cut  down  the  amount  of  for- 
eign exchange  available  for  official  transactions,  leading  to  a 
reduction  in  imports,  which  hit  manufacturing  enterprises 
dependent  on  imported  equipment  and  raw  materials  espe- 
cially hard.  As  a  result,  many  consumer  goods  were  no  longer 
available  in  Ghana,  which  further  boosted  smuggling  across 
borders  of  those  countries  where  such  goods  could  be 
obtained.  By  1982  the  World  Bank  estimated  that  transactions 
on  the  parallel,  or  black,  market  constituted  32.4  percent  of  all 
domestic  trade. 

Since  the  start  of  the  ERP  in  1983,  the  government  has  intro- 
duced several  policies  to  adjust  the  pattern  of  Ghana's  trade 
structure.  These  include  devaluing  the  currency  as  well  as  rais- 
ing producer  prices  for  crucial  exports  such  as  cocoa  to  offset 
the  advantages  of  smuggling  such  goods  across  borders.  In 
addition,  the  government  introduced  an  interbank  foreign 
exchange  market  to  facilitate  currency  exchange.  To  ease  the 
importation  of  essential  capital  goods,  but  not  necessarily  con- 
sumer goods,  the  government  revised  and  reduced  numerous 
import  duties  and  trade  taxes. 

By  the  early  1990s,  government  efforts  had  resulted  in  the 
restoration  of  many  of  Ghana's  historical  trade  relationships. 
Exports  were  again  dominated  by  cocoa,  which  earned  US$280 
million  in  1993.  Other  significant  export  commodities  in  1993 
were  gold  (US$416  million)  and  timber  (US$140  million),  fol- 
lowed by  electricity,  diamonds,  and  bauxite.  Ghana's  nontradi- 
tional  exports,  such  as  furniture,  cola  nuts,  and  pineapples, 
have  also  increased  significantly.  On  the  import  side,  fuel  and 
energy,  mainly  oil,  accounted  for  16  percent  of  1990  imports, 
followed  by  capital  goods,  43  percent;  intermediate  goods,  28 


141 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


GDP1 1991  =  $  2.6  billion2 


OTHER 

4.3  % 


TRANSPORTATION  AND 
COMMUNICATIONS 

4.5  % 

MINING 

1 .8  % 


GOVERNMENT 
SERVICES 
9.4  % 


MANUFACTURING 

8.7  % 


GDP  at  current  prices. 


ELECTRICITY  CONSTRUCTION 
AND  WATER  3.5  % 

2.0  % 


For  value  of  the  Ghanaian  cedi-see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile:  Ghana, 
1994-95,  London,  1994,  16. 


Figure  8.  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1991 


percent;  and  consumer  goods,  10  percent,  according  to  the 
World  Bank. 

In  addition  to  supporting  traditional  export  industries  such 
as  cocoa  and  gold,  the  government  also  attempted  to  diversify 
the  content  of  Ghana's  exports.  To  encourage  nontraditional 
exports  in  the  fishing  and  agriculture  sectors,  the  government 
offered  to  refund  95  percent  of  import  duties  on  goods  des- 
tined for  reexport  and  even  to  cancel  sales  taxes  on  manufac- 
tured goods  sold  abroad.  In  addition,  the  government  devised 
a  scale  of  tax  rebates  ranging  from  20  percent  to  50  percent 
determined  by  the  volume  of  total  production  that  was 
exported.  These  incentives  generated  considerable  response. 
By  1988  more  than  700  exporters  were  dealing  in  123  export 
products,  the  major  items  being  pineapples,  marine  and  fish 
products  (especially  tuna),  wood  products,  aluminum  prod- 
ucts, and  salt.  By  1990,  the  last  year  for  which  figures  were  avail- 


142 


The  Economy 


able,  the  value  of  nontraditional  exports  had  risen  to  US$62 
million. 

In  1992  the  government's  Ghana  Export  Promotion  Council 
announced  a  plan  to  raise  nontraditional  exports  to  US$335 
million  by  1997  through  increased  market  research,  trade  mis- 
sions, trade  fairs  and  exhibitions,  and  training.  Among  its  most 
ambitious  specific  targets  were  increases  in  tuna  and  shrimp 
sales  to  US$45  million  and  US$32  million,  respectively,  by 
1995,  and  increases  in  pineapple  sales  to  US$12.5  million.  In 
the  manufacturing  sector,  wood  products,  aluminum  goods, 
and  processed  rubber  were  targeted  to  yield  US$44  million, 
US$42  million,  and  US$23  million,  respectively.  Earnings  from 
salt  were  projected  to  rise  to  US$20  million. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Ghana  continued  to  trade  primarily  with 
the  European  Community,  particularly  Britain  and  Germany. 
Britain  continued  to  be  the  principal  market  for  Ghanaian 
cocoa  beans,  absorbing  approximately  50  percent  of  all  cocoa 
beans  exported.  In  1992,  Germany  was  the  single  most  impor- 
tant destination  of  Ghana's  exports,  accounting  for  some  19 
percent  of  all  exports.  Britain  was  next,  accounting  for  about 
12  percent,  followed  by  the  United  States,  9  percent,  and 
Japan,  5  percent.  The  same  year,  Britain  supplied  approxi- 
mately 20  percent  of  Ghana's  imports,  followed  by  Nigeria, 
which  provided  11  percent.  The  United  States  and  Germany 
were  third  and  fourth,  respectively. 

Ghana  also  belongs  to  the  sixteen-member  Economic  Com- 
munity of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  founded  in  1975 
with  headquarters  in  Abuja,  Nigeria.  ECOWAS  is  designed  to 
promote  the  cultural,  economic,  and  social  development  of  its 
component  states.  To  achieve  these  ends,  ECOWAS  seeks  to 
foster  regional  cooperation  in  several  areas,  including  removal 
of  barriers  to  the  movement  of  peoples  and  trade,  harmoniza- 
tion of  agricultural  policies,  improvements  in  infrastructure, 
and,  as  of  1991,  renewed  commitment  to  democratic  political 
processes  and  non-aggression  against  member  states. 

Ghana  also  has  a  number  of  barter  trade  agreements  with 
several  East  European  countries,  China,  and  Cuba.  Under  the 
agreements,  imports  of  goods  and  services  are  paid  for  mainly 
by  cocoa  from  Ghana.  A  major  change  occurred  in  1991  when 
the  German  Democratic  Republic  (GDR,  or  East  Germany) 
abrogated  its  barter  trade  agreement  with  Ghana  following  the 
union  of  the  two  Germanies.  In  spite  of  this,  agreement  was 
reached  between  the  two  countries  to  honor  existing  commit- 


143 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

merits.  In  late  1991,  the  Ghanaian  government  showed 
renewed  interest  in  trade  with  the  countries  of  Eastern  Europe 
following  the  adoption  of  free-market  systems  in  the  wake  of 
political  upheavals  in  those  countries.  Ghanaian  trade  officials 
expect  that  the  barter  trade  system  will  give  way  to  open  market 
operations. 

Role  of  the  Government 

In  the  1990s,  the  government  continued  to  play  a  decisive 
role  in  the  direction  and  pace  of  economic  development  in 
Ghana.  Under  the  Economic  Recovery  Program  initiated  in 
1983,  the  Rawlings  government  tried  to  shift  the  burden  of  eco- 
nomic growth  from  government  to  the  private  sector  through  a 
dual  strategy  of  cutting  government  spending  and  promoting 
private  production.  In  particular,  the  government  tried  to 
boost  export  production  through  currency  devaluations,  tax 
incentives,  and  government-funded  development  projects.  At 
the  same  time,  budget  deficits  were  almost  entirely  wiped  out. 
These  measures  caused  drastic  cutbacks  in  current  government 
spending  and  widespread  privatization,  while  the  government 
incurred  further  loans  (and  thereby  debt)  to  balance  the  coun- 
try's budget. 

The  Economic  Recovery  Program 

In  1983  the  government  launched  the  Economic  Recovery 
Program  (ERP)  under  the  guidance  of  the  World  Bank  and  the 
IMF.  The  overriding  purpose  of  the  ERP  was  to  reduce  Ghana's 
debts  and  to  improve  its  trading  position  in  the  global  econ- 
omy. The  stated  objectives  of  the  program  focused  on  restoring 
economic  productivity  at  minimum  cost  to  the  government 
and  included  the  following  policies:  lowering  inflation  through 
stringent  fiscal,  monetary,  and  trade  policies;  increasing  the 
flow  of  foreign  exchange  into  Ghana  and  directing  it  to  priority 
sectors;  restructuring  the  country's  economic  institutions; 
restoring  production  incentives;  rehabilitating  infrastructure 
to  enhance  conditions  for  the  production  and  export  of  goods; 
and,  finally,  increasing  the  availability  of  essential  consumer 
goods.  In  short,  the  government  hoped  to  create  an  economic 
climate  conducive  to  the  generation  of  capital. 

The  ERP  was  carried  out  in  roughly  three  phases.  Beginning 
in  1983,  the  government  focused  on  reducing  its  expenditures 
while  creating  incentives  for  private  production.  Initial  expen- 


144 


The  Economy 


diture  cuts  and  improved  tax  collection  brought  the  budget 
deficit  down  from  6.3  percent  of  GDP  in  1982  to  0.1  percent  by 
1986,  relieving  government  pressure  on  the  banking  system, 
while  a  series  of  cedi  devaluations  boosted  export  activity.  Dur- 
ing the  second  phase,  which  lasted  from  1987  to  1989,  the  gov- 
ernment moved  to  divest  itself  of  many  assets  through 
privatization  and  to  institute  radical  foreign  exchange  reforms 
to  devalue  the  cedi  further.  Although  privatization  was  slug- 
gish, the  hard-currency  black  market  was  nearly  eliminated 
with  the  introduction  of  foreign  exchange  bureaus  in  1988.  In 
the  ERP's  third  phase,  the  government  intensified  monetary 
reforms  and  reduced  private  corporate  taxes  to  boost  private- 
sector  growth. 

By  the  end  of  1991,  ERP  efforts  had  improved  the  country's 
international  financial  reputation  because  of  its  ability  to  make 
loan  repayments  (although  not  wipe  out  foreign  debt)  and  its 
first  entry  onto  the  international  capital  market  in  almost  two 
decades.  Critics  maintained,  however,  that  the  ERP  had  failed 
to  bring  about  a  fundamental  transformation  of  the  economy, 
which  still  relied  on  income  earned  from  cocoa  and  other  agri- 
cultural commodities.  Critics  also  contended  that  many  Ghana- 
ians had  seen  few,  if  any,  benefits  from  the  program. 

In  addition  to  its  focus  on  stabilizing  the  country's  financial 
structure,  the  ERP  also  aimed  to  promote  production,  espe- 
cially in  the  export  sectors.  In  1986  the  government  began  to 
rebuild  infrastructure  through  a  US$4.2  billion  program,  more 
than  half  of  which  was  provided  by  external  sources.  This 
amount  was  divided  roughly  equally  among  infrastructure 
repair,  energy  imports  (oil  for  machinery),  and  export  indus- 
tries. Increased  imports  financed  by  the  IMF,  the  World  Bank, 
and  other  sources  made  possible  the  rehabilitation  and  repair 
of  some  key  parts  of  the  infrastructure  through  the  supply  of 
spare  parts  and  inputs  for  industry,  mining,  utilities,  and  agri- 
culture. 

Although  the  ERP  was  geared  primarily  toward  restoring  the 
country's  international  economic  standing,  it  came  under  pop- 
ular criticism  inside  Ghana  for  ignoring  the  plight  of  those  not 
involved  in  the  export  sector.  The  overwhelming  shift  in 
resources  was  toward  cocoa  rehabilitation  and  other  export 
sectors,  not  toward  food  production.  Government  employees, 
especially  those  in  state  enterprises,  were  actively  targeted,  and 
many  lost  their  jobs.  Farmers  suffered  as  the  percentage  of  the 
total  budget  devoted  to  agriculture  fell  from  10  percent  in  1983 


145 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


to  4.2  percent  in  1986  and  to  3.5  percent  in  1988,  excluding 
foreign  aid  projects.  Although  cocoa  contributed  less  to 
Ghana's  GDP  than  food  crops,  cocoa  nonetheless  received  9 
percent  of  capital  expenditures  in  the  late  1980s;  at  the  same 
time,  it  received  roughly  67  percent  of  current  agricultural 
expenditures  because  of  its  export  value. 

In  response  to  criticism  of  such  policies,  the  government  ini- 
tiated the  US$85  million  Program  of  Action  to  Mitigate  the 
Social  Costs  of  Adjustment  (PAMSCAD).  Beginning  in  1988, 
the  program  sought  to  create  40,000  jobs  over  a  two-year 
period.  It  was  aimed  at  the  poorest  individuals,  small-scale  min- 
ers and  artisans  in  particular,  and  communities  were  to  be 
helped  to  implement  labor-intensive  self-help  projects. 

As  part  of  PAMSCAD,  £10  billion  was  slated  in  the  1993  bud- 
get for  the  rehabilitation  and  development  of  rural  and  urban 
social  infrastructure.  The  new  program,  organized  through 
PAMSCAD  and  the  new  district  assemblies,  was  designed  to 
focus  on  improving  water  supply,  sanitation,  primary  educa- 
tion, and  health  care.  An  additional  051  billion  was  set  aside  for 
redeployment  and  end-of-service  benefits  for  those  who  had 
lost  their  jobs  in  civil  service  and  parastatal  reorganizations. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  government  was  committed  to  con- 
tinuing the  policies  of  the  ERP.  New  agreements  were  con- 
cluded with  the  World  Bank  to  continue  credit  arrangements 
on  condition  that  Ghana  review  and  revise  its  various  economic 
laws  and  regulations  and  support  private-sector  development. 
In  particular,  the  government  agreed  to  revise  or  to  repeal 
existing  laws  and  regulations  affecting  private  investment  that 
undermine  the  spirit  of  deregulation,  economic  liberalization, 
and  exchange-rate  reforms.  The  government  also  agreed  to 
develop  and  to  strengthen  the  institutional  framework  that 
would  facilitate  private  investment.  Key  priorities  for  1992  and 
afterward  included  giving  new  impetus  to  state  enterprise 
reform,  broadening  the  scope  of  banking-sector  reforms,  liber- 
alizing the  administrative  framework,  and  strengthening  pub- 
lic-sector management.  Basic  education  and  primary  health- 
care services  were  to  receive  attention  over  the  long  term  as 
well. 

State  Enterprises 

State-owned  enterprises  in  Ghana  date  to  the  colonial 
period  and  especially  to  the  post-World  War  II  era.  For  exam- 
ple, the  British  organized  a  number  of  public  utilities,  such  as 


146 


Craftsmen  making  cane  furniture  in  Accra 
Courtesy  James  Sanders 

water,  electricity,  postal  and  telegraph  services,  rail  and  road 
networks,  and  bus  services.  To  foster  exports  of  coffee,  palm 
kernels,  and  cocoa,  the  Agricultural  Produce  Marketing  Board 
was  founded  in  1949.  In  addition,  the  colonial  government 
established  the  Industrial  Development  Corporation  and  the 
Agricultural  Development  Corporation  to  promote  industries 
and  agriculture.  In  the  mid-1970s,  the  National  Redemption 
Council  under  L  K.  Acheampong  also  emphasized  state  enter- 
prises. The  Acheampong  government  established  a  number  of 
new  enterprises  and  partly  or  wholly  nationalized  a  number  of 
foreign-owned  companies,  including  Ashanti  Goldfields  Cor- 
poration and  Consolidated  African  Selection  Trust.  Intermit- 
tent efforts  to  improve  performance  and  efficiency  often  led  to 
the  transferral  of  duties  and  functions  to  alternative  state  bod- 
ies but  not  to  the  wholesale  privatization  of  ownership  rights 
and  assets. 

By  the  1980s,  state  enterprises  were  suffering  along  with 
most  businesses  in  Ghana,  but  they  were  also  held  to  blame  for 
the  economy's  general  condition.  In  particular,  many  were 
heavily  subsidized  and  were  draining  much  of  the  country's 
domestic  loan  capital.  Under  pressure  from  the  World  Bank 
and  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  ERP,  in  1984  the 


147 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


government  began  to  sell  state  enterprises  to  private  investors, 
and  it  initiated  the  State-Owned  Enterprise  Reform  Program  in 
1988. 

In  1984  there  were  235  state  enterprises  in  Ghana.  The  gov- 
ernment announced  that  twenty-two  sensitive  enterprises 
would  not  be  sold,  including  major  utilities  as  well  as  transport, 
cocoa,  and  mining  enterprises.  In  1988  thirty-two  were  put  up 
for  sale,  followed  by  a  further  forty-four  in  1990  under  what  was 
termed  the  Divestiture  Implementation  Committee.  By  Decem- 
ber 1990,  thirty-four  enterprises  had  been  either  partially  or 
totally  divested.  Four  were  sold  outright,  a  further  eight  were 
partially  sold  through  share  issues,  and  twenty-two  were  liqui- 
dated. Divestiture  of  fifteen  additional  enterprises  was  also 
underway,  and  by  1992  plans  were  afoot  to  privatize  some  of 
the  nation's  banks. 

Joint  ventures  were  set  up  for  four  enterprises,  including  two 
state  mining  companies,  Prestea  Goldfields  and  Ghana  Consol- 
idated Diamonds.  In  1992  the  Divestiture  Implementation 
Committee  considered  resource-pooling  programs  to  enable 
smaller  domestic  investors  to  buy  up  state  enterprises.  Such 
pooling  would  accelerate  the  program,  but  more  importantly, 
it  would  enable  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council 
(PNDC)  to  deflect  charges  that  it  was  auctioning  off  the 
nation's  assets  to  foreigners. 

The  government  also  introduced  a  performance  monitoring 
and  evaluation  system  to  improve  state  enterprise  productivity 
and  efficiency  as  well  as  to  provide  incentives  for  strong  per- 
formers and  disincentives  for  weak  performers.  By  1989  fifteen 
enterprises  had  responded  positively,  turning  a  combined  pre- 
tax loss  of  0418  million  from  the  previous  year  into  pre-tax 
profits  of  ^19  billion,  following  a  9  percent  cut  in  costs  and  a  30 
percent  increase  in  sales.  In  early  1992,  the  chairman  of  the 
State  Enterprises  Commission  announced  that  the  government 
would  pass  legislation  requiring  state-owned  enterprises  to  reg- 
ister as  limited  liability  companies  by  1993  to  stimulate  compe- 
tition and  to  improve  their  performances. 

Budgets 

Major  policies  of  the  ERP  and  conditions  of  IMF  funding 
were  that  the  budget  deficit  be  reduced  and  that  resources  be 
directed  from  current  to  capital  spending.  Consequently,  the 
government  achieved  a  budget  surplus  each  year  between  1986 
and  1989  and  simultaneously  boosted  the  percentage  of  spend- 


148 


The  Economy 


ing  for  development  projects.  During  the  mid-1980s,  budget 
deficits  as  a  percentage  of  GDP  consistently  declined,  falling 
from  4.7  percent  in  1982  to  2.7  percent  in  1983  to  0.3  percent 
in  1987.  To  accomplish  this,  the  government  cut  spending  and 
reversed  its  budgetary  priorities,  raising  capital  investment  at 
the  expense  of  increased  current  consumption  in  order  to  pro- 
mote future  growth.  The  government  allocated  62  percent  of 
the  budget  to  physical  infrastructure  and  about  33  percent  to 
the  country's  productive  sector.  At  the  same  time,  spending  on 
social  programs,  including  health,  education,  and  welfare, 
declined  drastically  to  between  4.7  and  5  percent.  As  a  percent- 
age of  GDP,  expenditures  on  health  care  fell  from  1.2  percent 
in  1970  to  0.26  percent  in  1980-83;  during  the  same  period, 
spending  on  education  dropped  from  3.9  percent  to  0.85  per- 
cent. 

The  1993  budget,  consistent  with  ERP  policies  and  objec- 
tives, aimed  to  stimulate  private-sector  growth  through  lower- 
ing taxes  on  commerce  and  corporations  and  by  internally 
balancing  accounts.  The  previous  budget  reduced  the  tax  rate 
for  commerce,  printing,  and  publishing  businesses  from  50 
percent  to  35  percent,  bringing  these  sectors  into  line  with 
agriculture,  manufacturing,  real  estate,  construction,  and  ser- 
vices, the  taxes  on  which  were  cut  in  1991. 

Relief  for  the  financial  sector  was  less  generous.  The  tax  rate 
was  reduced  from  50  percent  to  45  percent  to  encourage  more 
lending  and  better  terms  for  borrowers  and  to  reduce  the  8 
percent  to  9  percent  gap  between  deposit  and  lending  rates  of 
interest.  The  government  also  reduced  the  withholding  tax  on 
dividends  from  15  percent  to  10  percent,  in  line  with  1991  cuts 
from  30  percent.  The  annual  standard  personal  exemption  for 
individual  taxpayers  was  set  at  £150,000  (US$380),  up  from  the 
previous  £126,000.  This  figure  reflected  a  19  percent  increase, 
1  percent  above  Ghanaian  inflation  the  previous  year.  The  top 
marginal  rate  of  tax  was  raised  from  25  percent  to  35  percent, 
payable  on  earnings  over  £14  million,  compared  with  the  previ- 
ous level  of  £3  million.  Finally,  import  taxes  were  reduced  or 
abolished,  including  duties  and  sales  taxes  on  all  building 
materials.  The  super  sales  tax  on  luxury  goods,  introduced  in 
1990,  was  also  abolished.  A  maximum  rate  of  10  percent  was  set 
on  such  imports. 

Tax  evasion  and  corruption,  both  of  which  are  rampant 
throughout  Ghana,  severely  affected  the  government's  ability 
to  collect  taxes  in  all  categories.  In  December  1993,  the  Ghana- 


149 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


ian  parliament  passed  the  Serious  Fraud  Office  Bill.  This  act 
empowered  the  Serious  Fraud  Office  to  investigate  fraud  and 
embezzlement  crimes  against  the  state.  Despite  this  action,  it  is 
unlikely  that  the  authorities  will  be  able  to  stop  tax  evasion  or 
other  white-collar  crimes  anytime  soon. 

Reform  of  the  tax  base  and  prudent  fiscal  management  con- 
tributed to  budget  surpluses  and  dramatically  reduced  govern- 
ment recourse  to  the  banking  sector.  By  the  early  1990s, 
nonetheless,  Ghana  still  relied  heavily  on  external  grants  to 
achieve  its  twin  goals  of  running  balanced  budgets  and  increas- 
ing necessary  capital  expenditures  (see  table  9,  Appendix). 
Moreover,  compared  with  the  rest  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  total 
government  revenue  as  a  proportion  of  GDP  continued  to  be 
relatively  low.  It  was  less  than  16  percent  in  1990  (including 
grants),  compared  with  an  average  of  19  percent  for  sub- 
Saharan  Africa  as  a  whole.  In  1993  revenue  raising  efforts 
aimed  to  secure  income  equivalent  to  22.2  percent  of  GDP. 

By  1992  the  government's  financial  position  had  weakened. 
From  1986  to  1991,  government  finances  were  in  surplus.  In 

1992,  however,  tax  receipts  from  all  sources  of  revenue  were 
below  projected  levels,  and  with  national  elections  in  view,  the 
government  relaxed  its  tight  controls  on  spending.  Despite 
inclusion  of  foreign  funding  as  a  source  of  revenue,  the  deficit 
for  1992  was  estimated  at  £177  billion  but  fell  to  £119  billion  in 

1993.  To  rectify  the  situation,  the  government  proposed  to 
raise  taxes  on  gasoline,  kerosene,  diesel  fuel,  and  liquefied 
petroleum  gas  by  as  much  as  60  percent. 

Banking  and  Currency 

Control  of  money-supply  growth  and  liquidity  management 
have  been  among  the  ERP's  most  difficult  tasks,  and  expansion 
generally  exceeded  targets  for  most  of  the  1980s.  The  initial 
phase  of  monetary  policy  (1983-86)  focused  on  reducing  gov- 
ernment borrowing  from  the  domestic  banking  system  and  on 
using  quantitative  controls  via  credit  ceilings.  Although  these 
succeeded  in  reducing  domestic  credit  growth,  larger  than 
expected  foreign  earnings  and  the  money  market's  inability  to 
process  them  efficiently  contributed  to  a  rapid  expansion  in 
the  broad  money  supply  until  the  late  1980s. 

The  subsequent  introduction  of  more  dynamic  monetary 
policies  in  1989  involved  a  phase-in  of  indirect  controls  and 
market-based  policy  instruments.  A  further  series  of  measures 
was  introduced  in  1990  to  strengthen  the  responsiveness  of 


150 


The  Economy 


interest  rates  to  changes  in  liquidity  conditions.  There  followed 
a  phased  increase  in  the  Bank  of  Ghana's  rediscount  rate  from 
26  percent  to  35  percent  by  mid-1991,  the  introduction  of 
three-  and  five-year  instruments  later  that  year,  and  a  widening 
of  access  to  Bank  of  Ghana  financial  instruments  in  favor  of  the 
non-bank  financial  sector.  The  policies  were  quite  effective. 
Money  supply  growth  was  brought  convincingly  under  control 
in  1990  and  1991;  however,  a  decline  in  interest  rates  and  in 
monetary  control,  compounded  by  salary  increases  in  the  pub- 
lic sector,  prompted  monetary  growth  in  1992. 

In  January  1994,  the  Bank  of  Ghana  relaxed  its  monetary 
policy.  As  a  result,  the  government's  91-day  treasury  bill  dis- 
count rate  was  lowered  five  percentage  points  to  27  percent. 
The  interest  rate  equivalent  of  the  discount  rate  fell  from  34.78 
percent  to  28.95  percent.  Savings  deposit  rates  also  fell  in 
December  1993  from  17.5-22  percent  to  15-22  percent.  The 
wider  range  suggests  competition  for  funds  in  the  banking 
market.  The  range  for  longer-term  money  (two-year)  declined 
from  22-32  percent  to  25.2-28  percent. 

Banking 

Ghana  has  a  well-developed  banking  system  that  was  used 
extensively  by  previous  governments  to  finance  attempts  to 
develop  the  local  economy.  By  the  late  1980s,  the  banks  had 
suffered  substantial  losses  from  a  number  of  bad  loans  in  their 
portfolios.  In  addition,  cedi  depreciation  had  raised  the  banks' 
external  liabilities.  In  order  to  strengthen  the  banking  sector, 
the  government  in  1988  initiated  comprehensive  reforms.  In 
particular,  the  amended  banking  law  of  August  1989  required 
banks  to  maintain  a  minimum  capital  base  equivalent  to  6  per- 
cent of  net  assets  adjusted  for  risk  and  to  establish  uniform 
accounting  and  auditing  standards.  The  law  also  introduced 
limits  on  risk  exposure  to  single  borrowers  and  sectors.  These 
measures  strengthened  central  bank  supervision,  improved  the 
regulatory  framework,  and  gradually  improved  resource  mobi- 
lization and  credit  allocation. 

Other  efforts  were  made  to  ease  the  accumulated  burden  of 
bad  loans  on  the  banks  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1989  the  Bank  of 
Ghana  issued  temporary  promissory  notes  to  replace  non-per- 
forming loans  and  other  government-guaranteed  obligations 
to  state-owned  enterprises  as  of  the  end  of  1988  and  on  private- 
sector  loans  in 1989.  The  latter  were  then  replaced  by  interest- 
bearing  bonds  from  the  Bank  of  Ghana  or  were  offset  against 


151 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

debts  to  the  bank.  Effectively,  the  government  stepped  in  and 
repaid  the  loans.  By  late  1989,  some  £62  billion  worth  of  non- 
performing  assets  had  been  offset  or  replaced  by  central  bank 
bonds  totaling  about  £47  billion. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  banking  system  included  the  central 
bank  (the  Bank  of  Ghana),  three  large  commercial  banks 
(Ghana  Commercial  Bank,  Barclays  Bank  of  Ghana,  and  Stan- 
dard Chartered  Bank  of  Ghana),  and  seven  secondary  banks. 
Three  merchant  banks  specialized  in  corporate  finance,  advi- 
sory services,  and  money  and  capital  market  activities — Mer- 
chant Bank,  Ecobank  Ghana,  and  Continental  Acceptances; 
the  latter  two  were  both  established  in  1990.  These  and  the 
commercial  banks  placed  short-term  deposits  with  two  dis- 
count houses  set  up  to  enhance  the  development  of  Ghana's 
domestic  money  market — Consolidated  Discount  House  and 
Securities  Discount  House,  established  in  November  1987  and 
June  1991,  respectively.  At  the  bottom  of  the  tier  were  100  rural 
banks,  which  accounted  for  only  5  percent  of  the  banking  sys- 
tem's total  assets. 

By  the  end  of  1990,  banks  were  able  to  meet  the  new  capital 
adequacy  requirements.  In  addition,  the  government 
announced  the  establishment  of  the  First  Finance  Company  in 
1991  to  help  distressed  but  potentially  viable  companies  to 
recapitalize.  The  company  was  established  as  part  of  the  finan- 
cial sector  adjustment  program  in  response  to  requests  for  eas- 
ier access  to  credit  for  companies  hit  by  ERP  policies.  The 
company  was  a  joint  venture  between  the  Bank  of  Ghana  and 
the  Social  Security  and  National  Insurance  Trust. 

Despite  offering  some  of  the  highest  lending  rates  in  West 
Africa,  Ghana's  banks  enjoyed  increased  business  in  the  early 
1990s  because  of  high  deposit  rates.  The  Bank  of  Ghana  raised 
its  rediscount  rate  in  stages  to  around  35  percent  by  mid-1991, 
driving  money  market  and  commercial  bank  interest  rates  well 
above  the  rate  of  inflation,  thus  making  real  interest  rates  sub- 
stantially positive.  As  inflation  decelerated  over  the  year,  the 
rediscount  rate  was  lowered  in  stages  to  20  percent,  bringing 
lending  rates  down  accordingly. 

At  the  same  time,  more  money  moved  into  the  banking  sys- 
tem in  1991  than  in  1990;  time  and  savings  deposits  grew  by  45 
percent  to  £94.6  billion,  and  demand  deposits  rose  to  £118.7 
billion.  Loans  also  rose,  with  banks'  claims  on  the  private  sector 
up  by  24.1  percent,  to  £117.4  billion.  Banks'  claims  on  the  cen- 
tral government  continued  to  shrink  in  1991,  falling  to  a  mere 


152 


The  Economy 


£860  million  from  £2.95  billion  in  1990,  a  reflection  of  contin- 
ued budget  surpluses.  Claims  on  nonfinancial  public  enter- 
prises rose  by  12.6  percent  to  £27.1  billion. 

Foreign  bank  accounts,  which  were  frozen  shortly  after  the 
PNDC  came  to  power,  have  been  permitted  since  mid-1985,  in 
a  move  to  increase  local  supplies  of  foreign  exchange.  Foreign 
currency  accounts  may  be  held  in  any  of  seven  authorized 
banks,  with  interest  exempt  from  Ghanaian  tax  and  with  trans- 
fers abroad  free  from  foreign-exchange  control  restrictions. 
Foreign-exchange  earnings  from  exports,  however,  are  specifi- 
cally excluded  from  these  arrangements. 

The  Ghana  Stock  Exchange  began  operations  in  November 
1990,  with  twelve  companies  considered  to  be  the  best  per- 
formers in  the  country.  Although  there  were  stringent  mini- 
mum investment  criteria  for  registration  on  the  exchange,  the 
government  hoped  that  share  ownership  would  encourage  the 
formation  of  new  companies  and  would  increase  savings  and 
investment.  After  only  one  month  in  operation,  however,  the 
exchange  lost  a  major  French  affiliate,  which  reduced  the  start- 
ing market  capitalization  to  about  US$92.5  million. 

By  the  end  of  1990,  the  aggregate  effect  of  price  and  volume 
movements  had  resulted  in  a  further  10.8  percent  decrease  in 
market  capitalization.  Trading  steadily  increased,  however,  and 
by  mid-July  1992,  2.8  million  shares  were  being  traded  with  a 
value  of  £233  million,  up  from  1.7  million  shares  with  a  value  of 
£145  million  in  November  1991.  The  market  continued  to  be 
small,  listing  only  thirteen  companies,  more  than  half  in  retail- 
ing and  brewing.  In  June  1993,  Accra  removed  exchange  con- 
trol restrictions  and  gave  permission  to  non-resident 
Ghanaians  and  foreigners  to  invest  on  the  exchange  without 
prior  approval  from  the  Bank  of  Ghana.  In  April  1994,  the 
exchange  received  a  considerable  boost  after  the  government 
sold  part  of  its  holdings  in  Ashanti  Goldfields  Corporation. 

Currency 

One  of  the  most  pressing  economic  problems  faced  by  all 
postindependence  Ghanaian  governments  was  the  overvalua- 
tion of  the  currency.  In  1961  Ghana  broke  with  the  British 
pound  sterling  and  pegged  the  value  of  the  cedi  to  the  United 
States  dollar.  As  Ghana's  terms  of  trade  worsened  in  the  1960s, 
the  real  value  of  the  cedi  fell;  however,  successive  governments 
feared  either  to  float  the  cedi  or  to  adjust  its  value,  thereby  rais- 
ing the  cost  of  imports  and  consumer  prices.  The  overthrow  of 


153 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


the  Kofi  A.  Busia  regime  in  1971,  following  the  introduction  of 
a  devaluation  package,  reinforced  the  unpopularity  of  such  a 
move.  The  Acheampong  government  reversed  course  and 
revalued  the  cedi.  It  also  increased  the  money  supply  to  pay 
Ghana's  debts,  leading  to  a  sharp  divergence  between  the  offi- 
cial and  the  real  rates  of  exchange. 

The  overvalued  cedi,  on  the  one  hand,  and  low,  regulated 
prices  for  commodities,  on  the  other,  led  to  a  robust  smuggling 
industry  and  to  an  extensive  black  market  in  currency.  It 
became  common  practice  for  Ghanaians,  especially  those  liv- 
ing along  the  country's  border,  to  smuggle  Ghanaian  produce 
such  as  cocoa  and  minerals  into  neighboring  francophone 
countries.  After  selling  on  the  local  market,  Ghanaians  would 
then  return  home  and  trade  their  hard-currency  Central  Afri- 
can francs  for  cedis  on  the  black  market,  making  handsome 
profits.  Smuggling  and  illegal  currency  operations  had  become 
so  extensive  by  1981  that  the  black-market  rate  for  cedis  was  9.6 
times  higher  than  the  official  rate,  up  from  1.3  in  1972.  At  the 
same  time,  reliable  estimates  placed  transactions  in  the  parallel 
economy  at  fully  one-third  of  Ghana's  GDP. 

Fifteen  months  after  the  PNDC  came  to  power,  in  April 
1983,  the  government  began  efforts  to  devalue  the  cedi.  Rawl- 
ings  introduced  a  system  of  surcharges  on  imports  and  bonuses 
on  exports  that  effectively  devalued  the  currency  because  the 
surcharges  on  imports  amounted  to  750  percent  of  the  amount 
being  spent  and  the  discounts  on  exports  amounted  to  990 
percent.  Further,  an  official  devaluation  began  in  October 
1983  in  which  the  exchange  rate  reached  £90  to  US$1  by 
March  1986.  By  1993,  £720  equaled  US$1;  by  late  1994,  £1,023 
equaled  US$1. 

In  September  1986,  the  government  sought  alternative 
methods  for  establishing  the  value  of  the  cedi.  At  that  time,  the 
government  relinquished  its  direct  role  in  determining  the 
exchange  rate.  The  rate  was  instead  determined  at  regular  cur- 
rency auctions  under  the  pressure  of  market  forces  on  the  basis 
of  a  two-tier  exchange-rate  system,  with  one  rate  for  essentials 
and  another  for  non-essentials.  In  April  1987,  the  two  auctions 
were  unified.  In  subsequent  reforms  also  designed  to  diminish 
smuggling  and  illegal  currency  dealings,  private  foreign- 
exchange  bureaus  were  permitted  to  trade  in  foreign  curren- 
cies beginning  at  the  end  of  March  1988.  By  July  1989,  there 
were  148  such  bureaus  operating,  ninety-nine  in  Accra  and 


154 


The  Economy 


thirty  in  Ashanti  Region,  with  the  remainder  in  other  urban 
centers. 

In  1987,  US$207  million  was  allocated  through  the  auction; 
and  in  1988,  US$267  million.  By  comparison,  the  foreign- 
exchange  bureaus  in  the  first  year  of  operation,  ending  in 
March  1989,  traded  US$77  million  worth  of  foreign  currency, 
or  about  one-fourth  the  amount  of  foreign  exchange  allocated 
through  the  auction.  Initially,  prices  at  the  auction  and  those  at 
the  foreign-exchange  bureaus  differed  greatly.  Efforts  to 
reduce  the  difference,  however,  brought  the  gap  from  29  per- 
cent in  March  1988  to  approximately  6  percent  by  February 
1991.  In  early  1992,  the  auction  was  closed,  although  no  official 
announcement  was  made.  Purchasers  were  referred  to  the 
Bank  of  Ghana,  which  used  an  exchange  rate  determined 
largely  on  the  basis  of  market  forces. 

The  government  also  successfully  slowed  growth  in  the 
money  supply.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  average  annual  growth 
rate  reached  61  percent.  By  1990  it  had  dropped  to  13.3  per- 
cent but  then  accelerated  slightly  to  16.7  percent,  standing  at 
£317  million  the  following  year.  In  1991  the  Bank  of  Ghana 
introduced  a  £1,000  note,  the  highest  denomination  issued 
since  independence  in  1957.  Previously,  the  highest  denomina- 
tion had  been  £500.  A  total  of  £50  billion  of  the  new  notes  was 
printed. 

Labor  Force 

Despite  the  revival  of  the  export  sector,  most  Ghanaians  con- 
tinued to  find  employment  with  the  government  or  to  rely  on 
informal  employment  for  their  livelihood.  An  increasing  num- 
ber of  Ghanaians  also  turned  to  smuggling  or  to  crime  to  earn 
a  living.  Reductions  in  the  number  of  government  workers  had 
not  been  offset  by  increased  employment  in  the  export  sector 
by  the  early  1990s.  At  the  same  time,  wages  had  not  kept  up 
with  the  cost  of  living.  The  government  also  sought  to  reform 
the  education  system,  because  increased  education  often  led  to 
better  jobs  and  higher  wages.  However,  because  students  were 
expected  to  bear  an  increasing  portion  of  the  cost  of  their  edu- 
cation, it  was  unlikely  that  the  poorest  Ghanaians  would  be 
able  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  school  system. 

National  Requirements 

Although  the  Ghanaian  labor  force  grew  throughout  the 


155 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


TRANSPORTATION  AND    A SR£ce-™v  ' 
COMMUNICATIONS         l"UHtb  1 HY' 
5.1  % 

MINING 

7.1% 


MANUFACTURING 
14.2% 


FINANCE  AND 
BUSINESS  SERVICES 

5.1  % 

ELECTRICITY, 
WATER,  AND  GAS 

2% 

DOMESTIC  TRADE 
AND  CATERING 
4.9  % 

CONSTRUCTION 

5.4  % 


AND  FISHING 

8.8  % 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Statistical  Service,  Quarterly  Digest  of 
Statistics,  Accra,  December  1991,  Table  42. 


Figure  9.  Employment  by  Sector,  1988 


1980s,  the  structure  of  employment  remained  relatively  stable 
(see  fig.  9).  Between  1981  and  1988,  the  official  number  of 
workers  grew  by  almost  100,000.  Despite  efforts  under  the  ERP 
to  stimulate  private  production,  public-sector  jobs  still 
accounted  for  more  than  80  percent  of  total  employment  over 
the  decade.  Employment  in  the  public  sector  rose  every  year 
between  1981  and  1985  (from  175,700  to  397,100),  but  thereaf- 
ter fell  three  years  in  a  row,  standing  at  251,500  in  1988.  By 
1992  the  number  of  public-sector  workers  had  grown  to  an  esti- 
mated 595,000,  although  some  55,000  had  been  declared 
redundant. 

Considering  the  relative  importance  of  public-sector 
employment,  ERP  policies  to  reduce  the  scope  of  state  enter- 
prises had  a  profound  impact  on  patterns  of  unemployment. 
In  the  mid-1980s,  cutbacks  at  the  Ghana  Cocoa  Board  (20,000 
jobs),  the  Ghana  National  Trading  Corporation  (2,000  jobs), 
and  the  shipping  enterprise,  the  Black  Star  Line  (1,000  jobs), 
contributed  to  nearly  30,000  job  losses  in  the  parastatal  sector 


156 


The  Economy 


alone  by  the  end  of  1986.  The  civil  service  lost  an  estimated 
15,000  jobs  in  the  same  period.  In  1990  fifteen  of  the  remain- 
ing state-owned  enterprises  reduced  their  payrolls  by  about 
13,000  employees;  no  figures  were  available  for  losses  resulting 
from  the  liquidation  of  an  additional  twenty-two  state  enter- 
prises that  year. 

Although  ERP  policies  resulted  in  the  loss  of  many  jobs  for 
Ghanaians,  their  implementation  met  relatively  minor  resis- 
tance from  organized  labor.  The  most  serious  challenge  came 
in  1986  on  the  issue  of  income  rather  than  that  of  layoffs.  The 
unions  threatened  action  in  response  to  the  government's  deci- 
sion (under  pressure  from  the  IMF)  to  abolish  leave  allow- 
ances, a  crucial  benefit  that  substantially  supplemented  low 
public-sector  wages.  In  response,  the  government  reversed  its 
decision  and  revised  the  1986  budget.  After  that,  the  govern- 
ment stepped  up  taxes  on  allowances  and,  in  some  cases,  con- 
solidated them  into  wages  and  salaries.  Meanwhile,  the 
unemployed  continued  to  express  concern  over  the  slow  mate- 
rialization of  end-of-service  payments.  In  response,  the  1992 
budget  contained  proposals  for  packages  comprising  down 
payments,  shares  in  profitable  state-owned  enterprises,  and 
interest  on  deferred  payments. 

Income  and  Wages 

During  the  1980s,  per  capita  income  rose  slightly  but  was 
overshadowed  by  the  increased  cost  of  living.  Per  capita 
income  climbed  from  the  decade  low  of  US$340  in  1983  to 
US$400  by  1988  because  of  the  devaluation  of  the  cedi  and  ris- 
ing producer  prices.  The  same  factors,  however,  worked  to 
increase  consumer  prices  four-fold  from  1985  to  1988.  This 
trend  continued  throughout  the  early  1990s  as  consumer 
prices  rose  from  393.2  in  1990  to  634.7  in  1993  based  on  a  1985 
price  index  of  100. 

Real  wages  and  salaries  are  estimated  to  have  fallen  by  an 
enormous  83  percent  between  1975  and  1983  and  to  have  con- 
tinued to  fall  through  1989,  forcing  many  workers  to  seek  addi- 
tional sources  of  income.  The  level  of  real  wages  reached  in 
1988  was  less  than  half  that  attained  in  the  mid-1970s;  never- 
theless, the  government  was  committed  under  the  ERP  to  hold- 
ing down  inflation  and,  hence,  wages.  In  the  1990  budget,  the 
government  linked  pay  increases  to  productivity,  inflation,  and 
companies'  ability  to  pay.  With  some  exceptions,  notably  a  one- 
time allowance  for  civil  servants  to  compensate  for  increased 


157 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

fuel  and  transport  costs  in  1990,  public-sector  wages  increased 
roughly  in  line  with  projected  inflation  in  1989,  1990,  and 
1991.  In  1992,  however,  the  government,  which  had  scheduled 
elections  late  in  the  year,  granted  a  salary  increase  to  public- 
sector  workers.  Although  no  recent  data  were  available  for  the 
private  sector,  wage  increases  under  collective  bargaining 
arrangements  appeared  to  have  been  relatively  modest. 

Although  increases  in  the  minimum  daily  wage  under  the 
PNDC  appear  spectacular,  they  are  linked  to  the  steady  devalu- 
ation of  the  cedi  and  have  not  overcome  a  constant  erosion  of 
worker  purchasing  power.  Beginning  in  April  1984,  the  govern- 
ment increased  the  minimum  daily  wage  to  035,  then  to  070  in 
January  1985,  £90  in  January  1986,  and  0122  in  1987.  In  March 

1990,  the  minimum  wage  was  raised  to  0218,  and  by  August 

1991,  it  had  risen  to  0460,  an  increase  of  111  percent  as  agreed 
to  by  the  government,  the  Trade  Union  Congress,  and  the 
Ghana  Employers  Association. 

In  the  face  of  popular  elections  and  increasing  strikes,  the 
government  agreed  to  massive  pay  raises  at  the  end  of  1992, 
including  a  70  percent  increase  for  nurses.  Overall,  civil  service 
pay  raises  added  more  than  050  billion  to  the  wage  bill,  reach- 
ing 0175  billion  in  1992,  or  50  percent  of  government  revenue. 
At  the  same  time,  the  government  moved  to  contain  the  wage 
bill  by  freezing  staff  recruitment  in  public-sector  organizations 
as  well  as  state  salaries  that  exceeded  those  in  the  civil  service. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture  is  Ghana's  most  important  economic  sector, 
employing  more  than  half  the  population  on  a  formal  and 
informal  basis  and  accounting  for  almost  half  of  GDP  and 
export  earnings.  The  country  produces  a  variety  of  crops  in 
various  climatic  zones,  which  range  from  dry  savanna  to  wet 
forest  and  which  run  in  east-west  bands  across  the  country. 
Agricultural  crops,  including  yams,  grains,  cocoa,  oil  palms, 
kola  nuts,  and  timber,  form  the  base  of  Ghana's  economy. 

Although  Nkrumah  attempted  to  use  agricultural  wealth  as 
a  springboard  for  the  country's  overall  economic  development, 
Ghanaian  agricultural  output  has  consistently  fallen  since  the 
1960s.  Beginning  with  the  drop  in  commodity  prices  in  the  late 
1960s,  farmers  have  been  faced  with  fewer  incentives  to  pro- 
duce as  well  as  with  a  general  deterioration  of  necessary  infra- 
structure and  services.  Farmers  have  also  had  to  deal  with 
increasingly  expensive  inputs,  such  as  fertilizer,  because  of 


158 


The  Economy 


overvaluation  of  the  cedi.  Food  production  has  fallen  as  well, 
with  a  decline  in  the  food  self-sufficiency  ratio  from  83  percent 
in  1961-66  to  71  percent  in  1978-80,  coupled  with  a  four-fold 
increase  in  food  imports  in  the  decade  prior  to  1982.  By  1983, 
when  drought  hit  the  region,  food  shortages  were  widespread, 
and  export  crop  production  reached  an  all-time  low 

When  the  Rawlings  government  initiated  the  first  phase  of 
the  ERP  in  1984,  agriculture  was  identified  as  the  economic 
sector  that  could  rescue  Ghana  from  financial  ruin.  Accord- 
ingly, since  that  time,  the  government  has  invested  significant 
funds  in  the  rehabilitation  of  agriculture.  Primarily  through 
the  use  of  loans  and  grants,  the  government  has  directed  capi- 
tal toward  repairing  and  improving  the  transportation  and  dis- 
tribution infrastructure  serving  export  crops.  In  addition, 
specific  projects  aimed  at  increasing  cocoa  yields  and  at  devel- 
oping the  timber  industry  have  been  initiated.  Except  for  spe- 
cific development  programs,  however,  the  government  has 
tried  to  allow  the  free  market  to  promote  higher  producer 
prices  and  to  increase  efficiency. 

Although  the  government  was  criticized  for  focusing  on 
exports  rather  than  on  food  crops  under  the  ERP,  by  the  early 
1990s  the  PNDC  had  begun  to  address  the  need  to  increase 
local  production  of  food.  In  early  1991,  the  government 
announced  that  one  goal  of  the  Medium  Term  Agricultural 
Development  Program  1991-2000  was  to  attain  food  self-suffi- 
ciency and  security  by  the  year  2000.  To  this  end,  the  govern- 
ment sought  to  improve  extension  services  for  farmers  and  to 
improve  crop-disease  research.  Despite  the  statements  con- 
cerning the  importance  of  food  crops,  however,  the  plan  was 
still  heavily  oriented  toward  market  production,  improvement 
of  Ghana's  balance-of-payments  position,  and  provision  of 
materials  for  local  industrial  production.  Furthermore,  follow- 
ing World  Bank  guidelines,  the  government  planned  to  rely 
more  heavily  on  the  private  sector  for  needed  services  and  to 
reduce  the  role  of  the  public  sector,  a  clear  disadvantage  for 
subsistence  producers.  In  particular,  industrial  tree  crops  such 
as  cocoa,  coffee,  and  oil  palm  seedlings  were  singled  out  for 
assistance.  Clearly,  agricultural  sectors  that  could  not  produce 
foreign-exchange  earnings  were  assigned  a  lower  priority 
under  the  ERP. 

The  government  attempted  to  reduce  its  role  in  marketing 
and  assistance  to  farmers  in  several  ways.  In  particular,  the 
Cocoa  Marketing  Board  steadily  relinquished  its  powers  over 


159 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

pricing  and  marketing.  The  government,  furthermore,  estab- 
lished a  new  farmers'  organization,  the  Ghana  National  Associ- 
ation of  Farmers  and  Fishermen,  in  early  1991  to  replace  the 
Ghana  Federation  of  Agricultural  Cooperatives.  The  new  orga- 
nization was  to  be  funded  by  the  farmers  themselves  to  operate 
as  a  cooperative  venture  at  the  district,  regional,  and  national 
levels.  Although  the  government  argued  that  it  did  not  want  to 
be  accused  of  manipulating  farmers,  the  lack  of  government 
financial  support  again  put  subsistence  producers  at  a  disad- 
vantage. 

Cocoa 

Cocoa  production  occurs  in  the  forested  areas  of  the  coun- 
try— Ashanti  Region,  Brong-Ahafo  Region,  Central  Region, 
Eastern  Region,  Western  Region,  and  Volta  Region — where 
rainfall  is  1,000-1,500  millimeters  per  year.  The  crop  year 
begins  in  October,  when  purchases  of  the  main  crop  begin, 
while  the  smaller  mid-crop  cycle  starts  in  July.  All  cocoa,  except 
that  which  is  smuggled  out  of  the  country,  is  sold  at  fixed  prices 
to  the  Cocoa  Marketing  Board.  Although  most  cocoa  produc- 
tion is  carried  out  by  peasant  farmers  on  plots  of  less  than 
three  hectares,  a  small  number  of  farmers  appear  to  dominate 
the  trade.  Indeed,  some  studies  show  that  about  one-fourth  of 
all  cocoa  farmers  receive  just  over  half  of  total  cocoa  income. 

In  1979  the  government  initiated  reform  of  the  cocoa  sec- 
tor, focusing  on  the  government's  role  in  controlling  the  indus- 
try through  the  Cocoa  Marketing  Board.  The  board  was 
dissolved  and  reconstituted  as  the  Ghana  Cocoa  Board  (Coco- 
bod).  In  1984  it  underwent  further  institutional  reform  aimed 
at  subjecting  the  cocoa  sector  to  market  forces.  Cocobod's  role 
was  reduced,  and  40  percent  of  its  staff,  or  at  least  35,000 
employees,  was  dismissed.  Furthermore,  the  government 
shifted  responsibility  for  crop  transport  to  the  private  sector. 
Subsidies  for  production  inputs  (fertilizers,  insecticides,  fungi- 
cides, and  equipment)  were  removed,  and  there  was  a  measure 
of  privatization  of  the  processing  sector  through  at  least  one 
joint  venture.  In  addition,  a  new  payment  system  known  as  the 
Akuafo  Check  System  was  introduced  in  1982  at  the  point  of 
purchase  of  dried  beans.  Formerly,  produce-buying  clerks  had 
often  held  back  cash  payments,  abused  funds,  and  paid  farmers 
with  false  checks.  Under  the  Akuafo  system,  a  farmer  was  given 
a  check  signed  by  the  produce  clerk  and  the  treasurer  that  he 
could  cash  at  a  bank  of  his  choice.  Plantation  divestiture  pro- 


160 


The  Economy 


ceeded  slowly,  however,  with  only  seven  of  fifty-two  plantations 
sold  by  the  end  of  1990. 

Although  Ghana  was  the  world's  largest  cocoa  producer  in 
the  early  1960s,  by  the  early  1980s  Ghanaian  production  had 
dwindled  almost  to  the  point  of  insignificance.  The  drop  from 
an  average  of  more  than  450,000  tons  per  year  to  a  low  of 
159,000  tons  in  1983-84  has  been  attributed  to  aging  trees, 
widespread  disease,  bad  weather,  and  low  producer  prices.  In 
addition,  bush  fires  in  1983  destroyed  some  60,000  hectares  of 
cocoa  farms,  so  that  the  1983-84  crop  was  barely  28  percent  of 
the  557,000  tons  recorded  in  1964-65.  Output  then  recovered 
to  228,000  tons  in  1986-87.  Revised  figures  show  that  produc- 
tion amounted  to  301,000  tons  in  1988-89,  293,000  tons  in 
1990-91,  and  305,000  tons  in  1992-93.  After  declining  to 
255,000  tons  in  1993-94,  the  crop  was  projected  to  return  to 
the  300,000  ton  range  in  1994-95. 

In  the  early  1990s,  Cocobod  continued  to  liberalize  and  to 
privatize  cocoa  marketing.  The  board  raised  prices  to  produc- 
ers and  introduced  a  new  system  providing  greater  incentives 
for  private  traders.  In  particular,  Cocobod  agreed  to  pay  trad- 
ers a  minimum  producer  price  as  well  as  an  additional  fee  to 
cover  the  buyers'  operating  and  transportation  costs  and  to 
provide  some  profit.  Cocobod  still  handled  overseas  shipment 
and  export  of  cocoa  to  ensure  quality  control. 

In  addition  to  instituting  marketing  reforms,  the  govern- 
ment also  attempted  to  restructure  cocoa  production.  In  1983 
farmers  were  provided  with  seedlings  to  replace  trees  lost  in 
the  drought  and  trees  more  than  thirty  years  old  (about  one- 
fourth  of  the  total  number  of  trees  in  1984).  Until  the  early 
1990s,  an  estimated  40  hectares  continued  to  be  added  each 
year  to  the  total  area  of  800,000  hectares  under  cocoa  produc- 
tion. In  addition,  a  major  program  to  upgrade  existing  roads 
and  to  construct  3,000  kilometers  of  new  feeder  roads  was 
launched  to  ease  the  transportation  and  sale  of  cocoa  from 
some  of  the  more  neglected  but  very  fertile  growing  areas  on 
the  border  with  Cote  d'lvoire.  Furthermore,  the  government 
tried  to  increase  Ghana's  productivity  from  300  kilograms  per 
hectare  to  compete  with  Southeast  Asian  productivity  of  almost 
1,000  kilograms  per  hectare.  New  emphasis  was  placed  on 
extension  services,  drought  and  disease  research,  and  the  use 
of  fertilizers  and  insecticides.  The  results  of  these  measures 
were  to  be  seen  in  rising  cocoa  production  in  the  early  1990s. 


161 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Other  Commercial  Crops 

The  main  industrial  crops  are  oil  palms,  cotton,  rubber, 
sugar  cane,  tobacco,  and  kenaf,  which  is  used  in  the  produc- 
tion of  fiber  bags.  None  is  of  strategic  economic  importance, 
and  all,  apart  from  oil  palms,  have  suffered  as  a  result  of  the 
country's  economic  difficulties.  Despite  claims  that  such  crops 
could  assist  local  industrialization  efforts,  the  government  has 
not  focused  the  same  attention  on  this  sector  as  on  export 
crops.  For  example,  sugar  cane  output  has  diminished  with  the 
closure  of  the  country's  two  sugar  mills,  which  produced 
237,000  tons  per  year  in  1974-76,  but  only  110,000  tons  in 
1989. 

The  government  has  actually  encouraged  the  export  rather 
than  the  local  processing  of  rubber,  rehabilitating  more  than 
3,000  hectares  of  plantations  specifically  for  export  production 
rather  than  revitalizing  the  local  Bonsa  Tire  Company,  which 
could  produce  only  400  tires  per  day  in  1988  despite  its 
installed  capacity  for  1,500  per  day. 

By  the  1990s,  the  tobacco  sector  was  expanding  and  moving 
toward  higher  export  production.  Ghana's  dark-fired  leaf  prob- 
ably grows  too  fast  and  requires  too  rich  a  soil  to  compete  effec- 
tively with  rival  crops,  but  the  potential  for  flue-cured  and 
Burley  varieties  is  good.  Pricing  difficulties  had  reduced 
tobacco  production  from  3,400  tons  in  the  early  1970s  to  an 
estimated  1,433  tons  in  1989.  Output  began  to  improve  in 
1990,  however,  reaching  2,080  tons. 

The  Leaf  Development  Company  was  established  in  1988  to 
produce  tobacco  leaf  for  the  local  market  and  to  lay  the  basis 
for  a  future  export  industry.  In  1991  the  company's  first  com- 
mercial crop  amounted  to  300  tons  of  flue-cured,  50  tons  of 
Burley,  and  50  tons  of  dark-fired  tobacco  (all  green-leaf 
weights),  of  which  250  tons  were  exported,  earning 
US$380,000.  In  1991  Rothmans,  the  British  tobacco  company, 
acquired  a  49.5  percent  stake  in  the  company  and  took  over 
management  of  the  Meridian  Tobacco  Company  in  partner- 
ship with  the  state-owned  Social  Security  and  National  Insur- 
ance Trust.  Another  firm,  the  Pioneer  Tobacco  Company, 
announced  a  92  percent  increase  in  post-tax  profits  of  more 
than  <t\  billion  for  1991.  The  company  declared  dividends 
worth  £360  million,  double  the  amount  paid  out  in  1990. 

Cotton  production  expanded  rapidly  in  the  early  and  mid- 
1970s,  reaching  24,000  tons  in  1977,  but  it  fell  back  to  one- 
third  of  this  figure  in  1989.  Since  the  reorganization  of  the 


162 


Felling  timber.  Forestry  is  one  of  Ghana's  major  industries 

and  sources  of  exports. 
Preparing  a  field  for  planting  yams 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


163 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Ghana  Cotton  Development  Board  into  the  Ghana  Cotton 
Company,  cotton  production  has  steadily  increased  from  4  per- 
cent of  the  country's  national  requirement  to  50  percent  in 
1990.  Between  1986  and  1989,  Ghana  saved  US$6  million 
through  local  lint  cotton  production.  The  company  expected 
that  between  1991  and  1995,  about  20,000  hectares  of  land 
would  be  put  under  cotton  cultivation,  enabling  Ghana  to  pro- 
duce 95  percent  of  the  national  requirement. 

Food  Crops  and  Livestock 

The  main  food  crops  are  corn,  yams,  cassava,  and  other  root 
crops.  Despite  government  efforts  to  encourage  farmers  to 
switch  to  production  of  staples,  total  food  production  fell  by  an 
average  of  2.7  percent  per  year  between  1971-73  and  1981-83. 
By  1983  Ghana  was  self-sufficient  in  only  one  staple  food 
crop — plantains.  Food  imports  rose  from  43,000  tons  in  1973 
to  152,000  tons  in  1981. 

There  were  various  reasons  for  this  poor  performance, 
including  growing  urbanization  and  a  shift  in  consumer  prefer- 
ence from  starchy  home-grown  staples  to  rice  and  corn.  How- 
ever, farmers  also  suffered  from  shortages  of  production 
inputs,  difficulties  in  transporting  produce  to  market,  and 
competition  from  imported  foods  that  were  underpriced 
because  of  the  vastly  overvalued  cedi.  Weather  also  played  a 
major  part,  particularly  in  1983,  when  drought  cut  cereal  pro- 
duction from  518,000  tons  in  1982  to  only  450,000  tons  at  a 
time  when  an  extra  million  people  had  to  be  fed  after  the 
expulsion  of  Ghanaians  from  Nigeria.  Food  imports  in  1982-83 
amounted  to  115,000  tons  (40  percent  as  food  aid),  with  the 
1983-84  shortfall  estimated  at  370,000  tons  (of  which  food  aid 
commitments  covered  91,000  tons). 

There  was  a  spectacular  improvement  beginning  in  1984, 
mainly  because  of  recovery  from  the  prior  year's  drought.  By 
1988  the  agricultural  sector  had  vastly  expanded,  with  food 
crops  responsible  for  the  bulk  of  the  increase.  Drought  condi- 
tions returned  in  1990,  bringing  massive  falls  in  the  production 
of  all  food  crops  apart  from  rice,  but  better  weather  and 
improved  production  brought  prices  down  in  1991. 

In  August  1990,  the  government  moved  to  liberalize  the  agri- 
cultural sector,  announcing  the  end  of  minimum  crop  prices. 
The  measure's  impact  was  difficult  to  gauge  because  higher 
production  meant  more  food  was  available  at  better  prices  any- 
way. The  government's  medium-term  plan,  outlined  in  1990, 


164 


The  Economy 


sought  to  raise  average  crop  yields  and  to  increase  food  secu- 
rity, with  special  attention  to  improved  producer  incentives  and 
storage  facilities. 

Livestock  production  is  severely  limited  by  the  incidence  of 
the  tsetse  fly  in  Ghana's  forested  regions  and  by  poor  grazing 
vegetation  elsewhere.  It  is  of  major  importance  only  in  the  rela- 
tively arid  north  and  has  not  been  earmarked  for  special  treat- 
ment in  Ghana's  recovery  program.  In  1989  there  were  an 
estimated  1.2  million  cattle,  2.2  million  sheep,  2  million  goats, 
550,000  pigs,  and  8  million  chickens  in  Ghana. 

Forestry 

Forests  cover  about  one-third  of  Ghana's  total  area,  with 
commercial  forestry  concentrated  in  the  southern  parts  of  the 
country.  This  sector  accounted  for  4.2  percent  of  GDP  in  1990; 
timber  was  the  country's  third  largest  foreign-exchange  earner. 
Since  1983  forestry  has  benefited  from  more  than  US$120  mil- 
lion in  aid  and  commercial  credits  and  has  undergone  substan- 
tial changes,  resulting  in  doubled  earnings  between  1985  and 
1990.  In  1993  timber  and  wood  products  earnings  totalled 
US$140  million  against  a  targeted  level  of  US$130  million. 
Between  January  and  November  1994,  exports  amounted  to 
919,000  tons  and  earned  US$212  million. 

Until  the  1980s,  forestry  production  suffered  because  of  the 
overvalued  cedi  and  deterioration  of  the  transportation  infra- 
structure. Log  production  declined  by  66  percent  during 
1970-81  and  sawed  timber  by  47  percent.  Exports  fell  from 
US$130  million  in  1973  to  US$15  million  in  1983,  and  four 
nationalized  firms  went  bankrupt  during  that  period. 

The  forestry  sector  was  given  a  large  boost  in  1986,  mainly 
because  of  the  World  Bank's  US$24  million  timber  rehabilita- 
tion credit,  which  financed  imports  of  logging  equipment.  As  a 
consequence,  log  production  rose  65  percent  in  1984-87,  and 
export  revenues  rose  665  percent  in  1983-88.  Furthermore, 
the  old  Ghana  Timber  Marketing  Board  was  disbanded  and 
replaced  by  two  bodies:  the  Timber  Export  Development 
Board,  responsible  for  marketing  and  pricing;  and  the  Forest 
Products  Inspection  Bureau,  responsible  for  monitoring  con- 
tracts, maintaining  quality  standards,  grading  products,  and 
acting  as  a  watchdog  for  illegal  transactions.  Some  of  the  exter- 
nal financing  underwrote  these  institutional  changes,  while 
much  of  the  rest  financed  forestry  management  and  research 


165 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

as  well  as  equipment  for  logging,  saw  milling,  and  manufactur- 
ing. 

The  sector,  however,  faced  several  problems.  The  most 
important  was  severe  deforestation.  A  century  ago,  Ghana's 
tropical  hardwood  forest  extended  from  about  the  middle  of 
the  country  southward  to  the  sea.  Moreover,  nearly  half  the 
country  was  covered  with  forests,  which  included  680  species  of 
trees  and  several  varieties  of  mahoganies.  Most  of  this  wood  has 
been  cut.  By  the  early  1990s,  only  about  one-third  of  the  coun- 
try was  still  forested,  and  not  all  of  this  was  of  commercial 
value.  This  situation  has  forced  the  government  to  make  diffi- 
cult choices  between  desperately  needed  hard  currency  earn- 
ings and  conservation.  The  Forest  Resource  Management 
Project,  part  of  the  ERP,  was  initiated  in  1988,  and  in  1989  the 
government  banned  log  exports  of  eighteen  species.  The  gov- 
ernment later  extended  the  list  and  imposed  high  duties  on 
other  species,  planning  to  phase  out  log  and  air-dried  timber 
exports  altogether  by  1994. 

Instead,  the  government  hoped  to  increase  sales  of  wood 
products  to  replace  earnings  from  logs.  Government  figures 
showed  that  one  cubic  meter  of  lumber  and  plywood  was  worth 
more  than  twice  as  much  as  the  same  amount  of  logs;  veneers 
earned  five  times  as  much;  and  other  products,  such  as  furni- 
ture and  floorings,  earned  six  times  the  price  of  an  equivalent 
volume  of  logs.  Improvements  in  the  processing  sector  caused 
wood  products  (excluding  lumber)  to  rise  to  about  20  percent 
of  export  earnings  in  1991,  accounting  for  6.9  percent  of  vol- 
ume exports.  By  comparison,  wood  products  represented  11 
percent  of  earnings  and  5.5  percent  of  volume  in  1985.  The  fall 
in  the  proportion  of  volume  sales  accounted  for  by  logs  was 
accompanied  by  a  dramatic  fall  in  their  share  in  earnings,  from 
50-60  percent  in  the  mid-1980s  to  23  percent  in  1990. 

By  the  early  1990s,  there  were  approximately  220  lumber 
processors  in  Ghana,  but  the  industry  operated  under  several 
constraints.  Most  overseas  demand  is  for  kiln-dried  products, 
and  Ghanaian  manufacturers  lack  sufficient  kilns  to  meet  that 
demand.  The  cheap  air-dried  processing  method  is  not  satisfac- 
tory because  air-dried  wood  tends  to  destabilize  over  time.  For- 
eign investment  incentives  are  not  so  attractive  in  this  sector  as 
in  other  sectors,  for  example,  mining.  Furthermore,  infrastruc- 
ture in  the  Western  Region,  where  lumber  processing  is 
located,  continues  to  be  relatively  neglected  compared  with 
mining  and  cocoa  production  regions.  Other  difficulties 


166 


The  Economy 


include  lack  of  expertise  at  technological  and  managerial  lev- 
els. 

Scandals  have  been  reported  in  Ghana's  forestry  industry 
since  1986,  and  they  erupted  again  in  early  1992.  The  most 
notable  case  involved  African  Timber  and  Plywood,  once 
Ghana's  largest  exporter  of  round  logs.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the 
government  embarked  on  a  US$36  million  rehabilitation 
project  to  boost  the  company's  production.  In  1992  as  much  as 
US$2.3  million  was  alleged  to  have  been  siphoned  off  from  the 
project  through  various  malpractices,  and  a  number  of  officials 
were  arrested.  Furthermore,  the  environmental  group,  Friends 
of  the  Earth,  alleged  that  there  had  been  additional  thefts  by 
numerous  foreign  companies  totaling  almost  US$50  million  in 
hard  currency  during  the  1980s.  In  1992  the  government 
began  investigating  the  activities  of  hundreds  of  companies, 
both  foreign  and  local,  that  were  alleged  to  have  entered  into  a 
range  of  illegal  dealings,  including  smuggling,  fraudulent 
invoicing,  violations  of  local  currency  regulations,  corruption, 
bribery,  and  nonpayment  of  royalties.  The  corruption  is  so 
widespread,  however,  that  it  is  unlikely  that  the  Ghanaian 
authorities  will  stop  timber-related  crimes  anytime  soon. 

Fishing 

Fishing  increased  considerably  in  the  late  1960s,  from 
105,100  tons  of  marine  fish  caught  in  1967  to  230,100  tons  in 
1971.  In  1982  the  yield  was  234,100  tons,  composed  of  199,100 
tons  of  marine  varieties  and  35,000  tons  of  freshwater  fish  from 
Lake  Volta.  The  industry  was  hit  by  fuel  shortages,  inadequate 
storage  facilities,  and  the  general  economic  difficulties  of  the 
1970s  and  the  1980s.  Nevertheless,  by  1988  the  fish  catch  was 
302,900  tons;  by  1991  it  amounted  to  289,675  tons,  down  from 
more  than  319,000  tons  in  1990. 

Large-scale  poaching  by  foreign  vessels  has  severely  depleted 
fish  stocks  in  Ghana's  200-nautical-mile  maritime  Exclusive 
Economic  Zone,  causing  major  government  concern.  The 
most  affected  stocks  are  sea  bottom-feeding  fish.  Tuna  stocks 
reportedly  remain  unaffected.  A  1992  Ministry  of  Food  and 
Agriculture  report  recommended  that  the  government  acceler- 
ate mobilization  of  surveillance  and  enforcement  units  and 
step  up  regulation  of  trawler  fleets.  That  same  year,  the  govern- 
ment passed  a  fisheries  law  to  curb  overfishing  and  to  help  pro- 
tect the  marine  environment.  Fishermen  were  banned  from 
catching  specified  shellfish,  and  all  fishing  vessel  operators 


167 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


were  required  to  obtain  licenses.  The  law  provided  for  a  regula- 
tory body — the  Fisheries  Monitoring,  Control,  Surveillance, 
and  Enforcement  Unit — as  well  as  a  fisheries  advisory  council. 
These  organizations,  however,  both  of  which  are  underfunded 
and  undermanned,  are  unlikely  to  stop  illegal  fishing  activities 
anytime  soon. 

Mining  and  Petroleum  Industries 

Ghana's  mineral  sector  had  started  to  recover  by  the  early 
1990s  after  its  severe  decline  throughout  the  1970s.  One  indi- 
cator of  the  scale  of  decline  was  that  by  1987,  only  four  gold 
mines  were  operating  in  Ghana,  compared  with  eighty  in  1938. 
Throughout  the  1970s,  the  output  of  gold,  as  well  as  bauxite, 
manganese,  and  diamonds,  fell  steadily.  Foreign-exchange 
shortages  inhibited  mine  maintenance,  new  exploration,  and 
development  investment.  The  overvalued  cedi  and  spiraling 
inflation  exacerbated  mining  companies'  problems,  as  did 
smuggling  and  the  deteriorating  infrastructure.  Energy  sup- 
plies failed  to  meet  the  industry's  growing  needs;  foreign- 
exchange  shortages  constrained  oil  imports,  and  domestically 
generated  hydroelectricity  was  unable  to  make  up  the  shortfall. 

After  1983,  however,  the  government  implemented  a  series 
of  measures  to  enhance  the  sector's  appeal.  In  1986  new  min- 
ing legislation  for  the  gold  and  diamond  sectors  replaced  the 
previous  complex  and  obsolete  regulations,  and  a  generous 
incentives  system  was  established  that  allowed  for  external  for- 
eign-exchange retention  accounts,  capital  allowances,  and  a 
flexible  royalties  payment  system.  Since  1986  the  sector  has 
benefited  from  a  wave  of  fresh  investment  totaling  US$540  mil- 
lion, and  by  the  early  1990s  mining  was  the  country's  second 
highest  foreign-exchange  earner. 

Under  legislation  passed  after  1983,  the  government  liberal- 
ized and  regularized  the  mining  industry.  For  the  first  time,  the 
government  made  small  claim-holding  feasible,  with  the  result 
that  individual  miners  sold  increasing  amounts  of  gold  and  dia- 
monds to  the  state-operated  Precious  Minerals  Marketing  Cor- 
poration. In  1990  the  company  bought  490,000  carats  of 
diamonds  and  20,000  ounces  of  gold  and  earned  a  total  of 
US$20.4  million  through  sales,  70  percent  of  it  from  diamond 
sales  and  30  percent  from  gold  bought  from  small-scale  opera- 
tors. Diamond  output  totaled  688,000  carats  in  1991  and 
694,000  carats  in  1992,  while  gold  production  amounted  to 
843,000  fine  ounces  in  1991  and  1,004,000  fine  ounces  in  1992. 


168 


The  Economy 


Furthermore,  the  government  succeeded  in  attracting  signifi- 
cant foreign  investment  into  the  sector  and,  by  early  1991,  had 
signed  more  than  sixty  mining  licenses  granting  prospecting 
rights  to  international  companies.  To  forestall  domestic  criti- 
cism of  large-scale  foreign  control  of  the  sector,  the  govern- 
ment announced  in  mid-1991  the  establishment  of  a  state- 
controlled  holding  company  to  buy  shares  in  mines  on  behalf 
of  foreign  investors. 

Gold 

Ghana  has  produced  and  exported  gold  for  centuries.  In 
precolonial  times,  present-day  Ghana  was  one  source  of  the 
gold  that  reached  Europe  via  trans-Saharan  trade  routes.  In  the 
fifteenth  century,  Portuguese  sailors  tried  to  locate  and  to  con- 
trol gold  mining  from  the  coast  but  soon  turned  to  more  easily 
obtained  slaves  for  the  Atlantic  slave  trade.  Most  gold  mining 
before  the  mid-nineteenth  century  was  alluvial,  miners  recover- 
ing the  gold  from  streams.  Modern  gold  mining  that  plumbs 
the  rich  ore  deposits  below  the  earth's  surface  began  about 
1860,  when  European  concessionaires  imported  heavy  machin- 
ery and  began  working  in  the  western  areas  of  present-day 
Ghana.  The  richest  deposit,  the  Obuasi  mine,  was  discovered 
by  a  group  of  Europeans  who  sold  their  rights  to  E.A.  Cade,  the 
founder  of  Ash  an  ti  Goldfields  Corporation  (AGC).  Since  the 
beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  modern  mining  in  the 
Gold  Coast  has  been  pursued  as  a  large-scale  venture,  necessi- 
tating significant  capital  investment  from  European  investors. 

Under  British  colonial  rule,  the  government  controlled 
gold  mining  to  protect  the  profits  of  European  companies.  The 
colonial  government  also  restricted  possession  of  gold  as  well 
as  of  mercury,  essential  in  recovering  gold  from  the  ore  in 
which  it  is  embedded.  Following  independence,  foreign  con- 
trol of  the  sector  was  tempered  by  increasing  government 
involvement  under  the  Nkrumah  regime;  however,  production 
began  to  decline  in  the  late  1960s  and  did  not  recover  for 
almost  twenty  years.  In  the  mid-1960s,  many  mines  began  to  hit 
poorer  gold  reefs.  Despite  the  floating  of  the  international 
gold  price  in  the  late  1960s,  few  investors  were  willing  to  invest, 
and  the  government  failed  to  provide  the  capital  necessary  to 
expand  production  into  new  reefs.  Of  the  two  major  gold  min- 
ing enterprises,  neither  the  State  Gold  Mining  Corporation 
nor  AGC  (40  percent  controlled  by  the  government)  expanded 
or  even  maintained  production. 


169 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Under  the  ERP,  the  mining  sector  was  targeted  as  a  potential 
source  of  foreign  exchange,  and  since  1984,  the  government 
has  successfully  encouraged  the  rejuvenation  of  gold  mining. 
To  offer  incentives  to  the  mining  industry,  the  Minerals  and 
Mining  Law  was  passed  in  1986.  Among  its  provisions  were  gen- 
erous capital  allowances  and  reduced  income  taxes.  The  corpo- 
rate tax  rate  was  set  at  45  percent,  and  mining  companies  could 
write  off  75  percent  of  capital  investment  against  taxes  in  the 
first  year  and  50  percent  of  the  remainder  thereafter.  The  gov- 
ernment permitted  companies  to  use  offshore  bank  accounts 
for  service  of  loans,  dividend  payments,  and  expatriate  staff 
remuneration. 

Companies  are  permitted  to  retain  a  minimum  of  25  percent 
of  gross  foreign-exchange  earnings  from  minerals  sales  in  their 
accounts,  a  level  that  can  be  negotiated  up  to  45  percent. 
Reconnaissance  licenses  are  issued  for  one-year  renewable  peri- 
ods, prospecting  licenses  are  valid  for  three  years,  and  mining 
licenses  are  in  force  for  up  to  thirty  years.  The  government  has 
the  right  to  10  percent  participation  in  all  prospecting  and  to 
extend  its  share  if  commercial  quantities  of  a  mineral  are  dis- 
covered. In  response,  between  1985  and  1990,  eleven  compa- 
nies became  active  with  foreign  participation,  representing 
investments  totaling  US$541  million.  Since  1986  there  has 
been  a  gradual  recovery  in  overall  production. 

More  than  90  percent  of  gold  production  in  the  early  1990s 
came  from  underground  mines  in  western  Ashanti  Region, 
with  the  remainder  coming  from  river  beds  in  Ashanti  Region 
and  Central  Region.  AGC,  the  country's  largest  producer, 
mined  62,100  fine  ounces  in  January  1992,  the  highest  monthly 
production  ever  recorded  since  the  company  began  operation 
in  1897.  The  company  also  lowered  its  costs  in  relation  to  pro- 
duction during  the  last  quarter  of  1991  from  0.26  percent  in 
October  to  0.24  percent  in  December.  Production  during  the 
company's  fiscal  year  of  October  1990  to  September  1991  was 
569,475  fine  ounces,  42  percent  more  than  the  previous  year's 
figure  of  400,757  fine  ounces  and  the  largest  amount  ever  pro- 
duced by  the  mine.  The  second  largest  amount  produced  was 
533,000  fine  ounces,  produced  in  1972. 

AGC  planned  major  expansions  in  the  early  1990s  funded  by 
World  Bank  loans.  In  early  1991,  the  corporation  announced 
the  discovery  of  new  reserves  estimated  at  more  than  8  million 
ounces,  in  addition  to  its  known  reserves  of  22.3  million 
ounces.  The  new  reserves  include  lower-grade  and  remnant 


170 


Production  in  a  textile  factory 
Goldfields  and  processing  plant  at  Obuasi,  south  ofKumasi 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


171 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

ores  that  the  corporation  had  been  unwilling  to  mine  because 
of  high  costs.  AGC  planned  to  lower  costs  through  capital- 
intensive  operations  and  a  sharp  reduction  of  labor  costs.  It 
also  planned  then  to  raise  output  from  a  projected  670,000  fine 
ounces  for  1992  to  more  than  1  million  fine  ounces  a  year  in 
1995.  The  expansion  was  to  be  funded  by  an  International 
Finance  Corporation  loan  package  totaling  US$140  million. 
AGC  was  to  put  up  the  balance,  estimated  to  exceed  US$200 
million. 

AGC  was  not  the  only  company  to  benefit  from  an  upsurge 
in  production.  Despite  its  increased  production,  the  company's 
overall  share  of  the  domestic  gold  market  declined  from  80 
percent  to  60  percent  in  the  same  period  that  other  operators 
entered  the  industry.  Provisional  figures  for  1991  showed  that 
two  new  mines,  Teberebie  and  Billiton  Bogoso,  produced 
100,000  fine  ounces  each,  while  other  companies,  including 
State  Gold  Mining  Corporation,  Southern  Cross  Mining  Com- 
pany, Goldenrae,  Bonte,  and  Okumpreko,  were  stepping  up 
production. 

Several  other  enterprises  were  on  the  drawing  board  or  were 
about  to  open  by  mid-1992.  The  British  company  Cluff 
Resources  had  raised  US$10.2  million  to  finance  a  new  mine  at 
Ayanfuri.  The  company  had  been  involved  in  exploration  since 
1987  and  planned  to  produce  as  much  as  50,000  ounces  of 
gold  annually.  A  Canadian-Ghanaian  joint-venture  gold  mine 
and  associated  processing  facilities  was  commissioned  in  mid- 
1991  in  Bogoso,  western  Ghana.  Finally,  in  May  1992,  a  joint- 
venture  company  was  created  to  prospect  for  gold  in  the  Aowin 
Suamang  district  in  Western  Region.  Shareholders  in  the  new 
company  included  the  Chinese  government  (32.68  percent), 
private  investors  in  Hong  Kong  (32  percent),  the  Ghanaian 
government  (10  percent),  and  private  Ghanaian  interests. 

In  1992  Ghana's  gold  production  surpassed  1  million  fine 
ounces,  up  from  327,000  fine  ounces  in  1987.  In  March  1994, 
the  Ghanaian  government  announced  that  it  would  sell  half  of 
its  55  percent  stake  in  AGC  for  an  estimated  US$250  million, 
which  would  then  be  spent  on  development  projects.  The 
authorities  also  plan  to  use  some  of  the  capital  from  the  stock 
sale  to  promote  local  business  and  to  boost  national  reserves. 
The  minister  of  mines  and  energy  dispelled  fears  that  the  stock 
sale  would  result  in  foreign  ownership  of  the  country's  gold 
mines  by  saying  that  the  government  would  have  final  say  in  all 
major  stock  acquisitions. 


172 


The  Economy 


Diamonds 

The  government  also  is  trying  to  expand  Ghana's  diamond- 
mining  industry,  which  has  produced  primarily  industrial- 
grade  gems  from  alluvial  gravels  since  the  1920s.  More  than  11 
million  carats  of  proven  and  probable  reserves  are  located 
about  110  kilometers  northwest  of  Accra.  The  main  producer  is 
the  state-owned  Ghana  Consolidated  Diamonds  (GCD),  which 
operates  in  the  Birim  River  Basin.  In  the  1960s,  the  company 
mined  2  million  carats  of  diamonds  a  year,  but  annual  produc- 
tion in  1991  amounted  to  only  146,000  carats.  This  downturn 
resulted  from  technical  problems  and  GCD's  weak  financial 
position.  Production  from  all  mines  came  to  688,000  carats  in 
1991  and  to  694,000  carats  in  1992. 

In  the  early  1990s,  the  government  announced  plans  to 
privatize  its  diamond-mining  operations  and  to  expand  pro- 
duction. At  Accra's  invitation,  De  Beers  of  South  Africa  agreed 
to  undertake  an  eighteen-month  feasibility  study  to  determine 
the  extent  of  the  Birim  River  Basin  diamond  reserves.  The  sur- 
vey was  to  cost  US$1  million.  A  De  Beers  subsidiary  will  be  the 
operator  and  manager  of  GCD,  while  Lazare  Kaplan  Interna- 
tional, a  New  York-based  diamond  polishing  and  trading  com- 
pany, will  produce  and  market  the  diamonds. 

In  1989  the  government  established  the  Precious  Minerals 
Marketing  Corporation  (PMMC)  to  purchase  minerals  from 
small  producers  in  an  effort  to  stem  diamond  smuggling.  Esti- 
mates suggested  that  as  much  as  70  percent  of  Ghana's  dia- 
monds was  being  smuggled  out  of  the  country  in  the  mid- 
1980s.  In  its  first  sixteen  months  of  operation,  the  PMMC 
bought  382,423  carats  of  diamonds  and  20,365  ounces  of  gold 
and  sold  230,000  carats  of  diamonds  worth  US$8  million.  The 
corporation  also  earned  £130  million  in  1991  on  its  jewelry 
operations,  up  48  percent  from  the  previous  year,  and  it 
planned  to  establish  joint  marketing  ventures  with  foreign 
firms  to  boost  sales  abroad.  Nevertheless,  because  of  new  com- 
plaints over  raw  gem  sales,  the  government  in  March  1992 
ordered  an  investigation  into  the  operations  of  the  state  agency 
and  suspended  its  managing  director. 

Manganese 

Ghana  is  one  of  the  world's  leading  exporters  of  manganese; 
however,  only  279,000  tons  were  produced  in  1992,  compared 
with  the  all-time  high  of  638,000  tons  in  1974-75.  Ghana  has 


173 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

reserves  exceeding  60  million  tons,  and  considerable  rehabili- 
tation of  the  sector  took  place  in  the  1980s.  Ghana  National 
Manganese  Corporation's  mine  and  the  surrounding  infra- 
structure were  repaired,  helping  to  raise  production  from  a  low 
of  159,000  tons  in  1983  to  284,000  tons  in  1989  and  247,000 
tons  in  1990.  The  corporation  earned  US$20  million  from  its 
exports  in  1991,  up  from  US$11.6  million  in  1989  and  US$14.2 
million  in  1990.  Approximately  US$85  million  was  also 
invested  by  private  investors  at  the  newly  explored  Kwesikrom 
deposit. 

Petroleum  Exploration 

Although  commercial  quantities  of  offshore  oil  reserves 
were  discovered  in  the  1970s,  by  1990  production  was  still  neg- 
ligible. In  1983  the  government  established  the  Ghana 
National  Petroleum  Corporation  (GNPC)  to  promote  explora- 
tion and  production,  and  the  company  reached  agreements 
with  a  number  of  foreign  firms.  The  most  important  of  these 
permitted  US-based  Amoco  to  prospect  in  ten  offshore  blocks 
between  Ada  and  the  western  border  with  Togo.  Petro  Canada 
International  has  prospected  in  the  Tano  River  Basin  and  Dia- 
mond Shamrock  in  the  Keta  Basin.  In  1989  three  companies, 
two  American  and  one  Dutch,  spent  US$30  million  drilling 
wells  in  the  Tano  basin.  On  June  21,  1992,  an  offshore  Tano 
basin  well  produced  about  6,900  barrels  of  oil  daily. 

In  the  early  1990s,  GNPC  reviewed  all  earlier  oil  and  gas  dis- 
coveries to  determine  whether  a  predominantly  local  opera- 
don  might  make  exploitation  more  commercially  viable.  GNPC 
wanted  to  set  up  a  floating  system  for  production,  storage,  off- 
loading, processing,  and  gas-turbine  electricity  generation, 
hoping  to  produce  22  billion  cubic  feet  per  day,  from  which 
135  megawatts  of  power  could  be  generated  and  fed  into  the 
national  and  regional  grid.  GNPC  also  won  a  contract  in  1992 
with  Angola's  state  oil  company,  Sonangol,  that  provides  for 
drilling  and,  ultimately,  production  at  two  of  Sonangol's  off- 
shore oil  fields.  GNPC  will  be  paid  with  a  share  of  the  oil. 

The  country's  refinery  at  Tema  underwent  the  first  phase  of 
a  major  rehabilitation  in  1989.  The  second  phase  began  in 
April  1990  at  an  estimated  cost  of  US$36  million.  Once  rehabil- 
itation is  completed,  distribution  of  liquified  petroleum  gas  will 
be  improved,  and  the  quantity  supplied  will  rise  from  28,000  to 
34,000  barrels  a  day  Construction  on  the  new  Tema-Akosombo 
oil  products  pipeline,  designed  to  improve  the  distribution  sys- 


174 


The  Economy 


tern  further,  began  in  January  1992.  The  pipeline  will  carry 
refined  products  from  Tema  to  Akosombo  Port,  where  they  will 
be  transported  across  Lake  Volta  to  northern  regions.  Distribu- 
tion continues  to  be  uneven,  however.  Other  measures  to 
improve  the  situation  include  a  US$28  million  project  to  set  up 
a  national  network  of  storage  depots  in  all  regions. 

The  Tema  Lube  Oil  Company  commissioned  its  new  oil 
blending  plant,  designed  to  produce  25,000  tons  of  oil  per 
year,  in  1992.  The  plant  will  satisfy  all  of  Ghana's  requirements 
for  motor  and  gear  lubricants  and  60  percent  of  the  country's 
need  for  industrial  lubricants,  or,  in  all,  90  percent  of  Ghana's 
demand  for  lubricant  products.  Shareholders  include  Mobil, 
Shell,  and  British  Petroleum  (together  accounting  for  48  per- 
cent of  equity),  GNPC,  and  the  Social  Security  and  National 
Insurance  Trust. 

Manufacturing  and  Tourism 
Manufacturing 

At  independence  in  1957,  the  Nkrumah  government 
launched  an  industrialization  drive  that  increased  manufactur- 
ing's share  of  GDP  from  10  percent  in  1960  to  14  percent  in 
1970.  This  expansion  resulted  in  the  creation  of  a  relatively 
wide  range  of  industrial  enterprises,  the  largest  including  the 
Volta  Aluminum  Company  (Valco)  smelter,  saw  mills  and  tim- 
ber processing  plants,  cocoa  processing  plants,  breweries, 
cement  manufacturing,  oil  refining,  textile  manufacturing 
operations,  and  vehicle  assembly  plants.  Many  of  these  enter- 
prises, however,  survived  only  through  protection.  The  overval- 
ued cedi,  shortages  of  hard-currency  for  raw  materials  and 
spare  parts,  and  poor  management  in  the  state  sector  led  to 
stagnation  from  1970  to  1977  and  then  to  decline  from  1977  to 
1982. 

Thereafter,  the  manufacturing  sector  never  fully  recovered, 
and  performance  remained  weak  into  the  1990s.  Underutiliza- 
tion  of  industrial  capacity,  which  had  been  endemic  since  the 
1960s,  increased  alarmingly  in  the  1970s,  with  average  capacity 
utilization  in  large-  and  medium-scale  factories  falling  to  21 
percent  in  1982.  Once  the  ERP  began,  the  supply  of  foreign 
exchange  for  imported  machinery  and  fuel  substantially 
improved,  and  capacity  utilization  climbed  steadily  to  about  40 
percent  in  1989.  Nevertheless,  by  1987  production  from  the 


175 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

manufacturing  sector  was  35  percent  lower  than  in  1975  and  26 
percent  lower  than  in  1980. 

Ghana's  record  with  industrialization  projects  since  indepen- 
dence is  exemplified  by  its  experience  with  aluminum,  the 
country's  most  conspicuous  effort  to  promote  capital-intensive 
industry.  This  venture  began  in  the  mid-1960s  with  the  con- 
struction of  a  1,186-megawatt  hydroelectric  dam  on  the  lower 
Volta  River  at  Akosombo.  Built  with  assistance  from  Britain,  the 
United  States,  and  the  World  Bank,  the  Akosombo  Dam  was 
the  centerpiece  of  the  Volta  River  Project  (VRP),  which  the 
Nkrumah  government  envisioned  as  the  key  to  developing  an 
integrated  aluminum  industry  based  on  the  exploitation  of 
Ghana's  sizable  bauxite  reserves  and  its  hydroelectric  potential. 
Foreign  capital  for  the  construction  of  an  aluminum  smelter  in 
Tema  was  obtained  from  US-based  Kaiser  Aluminum,  which 
acquired  a  90  percent  share  in  Valco,  and  from  US-based  Rey- 
nolds Aluminum,  which  held  a  10  percent  share.  Valco  became 
the  principal  consumer  of  VRP  hydroelectricity,  using  60  per- 
cent of  VRP-generated  power  and  producing  up  to  200,000 
tons  of  aluminum  annually  during  the  1970s. 

Changing  global  economic  conditions  and  severe  drought 
dramatically  affected  the  Ghanaian  aluminum  industry  during 
the  1980s.  The  discovery  of  vast  bauxite  reserves  in  Australia 
and  Brazil  created  a  global  oversupply  of  the  mineral  and 
induced  a  prolonged  recession  in  the  aluminum  trade.  Under 
these  conditions,  Valco  found  it  far  more  economical  to  import 
semi-processed  alumina  from  Jamaica  and  South  Korea  than  to 
rely  on  local  supplies,  despite  the  discovery  in  the  early  1970s 
of  sizable  new  deposits  at  Kibi.  Valco's  refusal  to  build  an  alumi- 
num production  facility  brought  Kaiser  and  Reynolds  into  bit- 
ter conflict  with  the  government. 

Severe  drought  compounded  the  effects  of  unfavorable  mar- 
ket conditions  by  reducing  the  electricity  generating  capacity 
of  the  Akosombo  Dam  and  by  forcing  a  temporary  shutdown  of 
the  smelter  from  1983  to  1985.  Aluminum  production  was  slow 
to  recover  in  the  wake  of  the  shutdown.  In  the  early  1990s,  alu- 
minum production  and  exports  continued  to  be  negligible. 

Drastic  currency  devaluation  after  1983  made  it  exception- 
ally expensive  to  purchase  inputs  and  difficult  to  obtain  bank 
credit,  which  hurt  businessmen  in  the  manufacturing  sector. 
Furthermore,  the  ERP's  tight  monetary  policies  created  liquid- 
ity crises  for  manufacturers,  while  liberalization  of  trade  meant 
that  some  enterprises  could  not  compete  with  cheaper 


176 


The  Economy 


imports.  These  policies  hurt  industries  beset  by  long  recession, 
hyperinflation,  outmoded  equipment,  weak  demand,  and 
requirements  that  they  pay  100  percent  advances  for  their  own 
inputs.  Local  press  reports  have  estimated  the  closure  of  at 
least  120  factories  since  1988,  mainly  because  of  competitive 
imports.  The  garment,  leather,  electrical,  electronics,  and 
pharmaceuticals  sectors  have  been  particularly  hard  hit.  In 
1990,  even  the  New  Match  Company,  the  only  safety  match 
company  in  the  country,  closed. 

ERP  strategies  made  it  difficult  for  the  government  to  assist 
local  enterprises.  Committed  to  privatization  and  the  rule  of 
free-market  forces,  the  government  was  constrained  from  offer- 
ing direct  assistance  or  even  from  moderating  some  policies 
that  had  an  obviously  detrimental  impact  on  local  manufactur- 
ers. Nevertheless,  the  Rawlings  government  initiated  programs 
to  promote  local  manufacturing. 

In  1986  the  government  established  the  Ghana  Investment 
Center  to  assist  in  creating  new  enterprises.  Between  1986  and 
1990,  the  vast  majority  of  projects  approved — 444  of  621 — were 
in  the  manufacturing  sector.  Projected  investment  for  the 
approved  ventures  was  estimated  at  US$138  million  in  1989 
and  at  US$136  million  in  1990.  In  the  initial  phase,  timber  was 
the  leading  sector,  giving  way  in  1990  to  chemicals.  In  1991  the 
government  established  an  office  to  deal  with  industrial  dis- 
tress in  response  to  complaints  that  "unrestrained  imports"  of 
foreign  products  were  undermining  local  enterprises.  The 
1992  budget  included  assistance  for  local  industrialists;  £2  bil- 
lion was  set  aside  as  financial  support  for  "deserving  enter- 
prises." 

The  dominant  trends  in  manufacturing,  nonetheless,  were 
the  involvement  of  foreign  capital  and  the  initiation  of  joint 
ventures.  Significant  new  enterprises  included  a  US$8  million 
Taiwanese-owned  factory,  capable  of  turning  out  ten  tons  of 
iron  and  steel  products  per  hour,  which  began  trials  at  Tema  in 
1989.  Although  approximately  500  projects  had  been  approved 
since  the  investment  code  came  into  force  in  1985,  almost  half 
had  still  not  been  launched  by  the  end  of  1989.  Between  90 
and  95  percent  of  the  approved  projects  were  joint  ventures 
between  foreign  and  local  partners,  80  percent  of  which  were 
in  the  wood  industry.  Restructuring  of  the  sector  was  proceed- 
ing through  divestiture,  import  liberalization,  and  promotion 
of  small-scale  industries. 


177 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Electric  Power 

In  the  early  1990s,  Ghana's  total  generating  capacity  was 
about  1,187  megawatts,  and  annual  production  totalled 
approximately  6  million  kilowatt  hours.  The  main  source  of 
supply  is  the  Volta  River  Authority  with  six  127-megawatt  tur- 
bines. The  authority's  power  plant  at  Akosombo  provides  the 
bulk  of  all  electricity  consumed  in  Ghana,  some  60  percent  of 
which  is  purchased  by  Valco  for  its  smelter.  The  power  plant 
also  meets  most  of  the  energy  needs  of  Togo  and  Benin,  which 
amounted  to  an  estimated  equivalent  of  180,000  tons  of  oil  in 
1991.  The  balance  of  Ghana's  electricity  is  produced  by  diesel 
units  owned  by  the  Electricity  Corporation  of  Ghana,  by  min- 
ing companies,  and  by  a  160-megawatt  hydroelectric  plant  at 
Kpong,  about  forty  kilometers  downstream  from  Akosombo.  A 
third  dam  at  Bui  on  the  Black  Volta  River  has  been  under  study 
for  some  time,  with  the  aim  of  increasing  power  supplies  in 
northern  Ghana  or  of  selling  power  to  Cote  d'lvoire  and 
Burkina  Faso  (Burkina,  formerly  Upper  Volta).  There  have 
been  difficulties,  however,  in  raising  the  funds  needed  for  the 
450-megawatt  generating  plant.  Other  sites  with  the  potential 
for  power  generation,  on  the  Pra  River,  the  Tano  River,  the 
White  Volta  River,  and  the  Ankobra  River,  would  also  require 
substantial  investment. 

Ghana  has  attempted  to  increase  distribution  of  its  electric- 
ity throughout  the  country.  One  program,  funded  by  the 
World  Bank's  International  Development  Association,  will  pro- 
vide reliable  and  widespread  electricity  in  the  urban  and  south- 
ern parts  of  the  country.  In  addition,  the  extension  of  the 
national  grid  to  the  Northern  Region  was  commissioned  in 
1989.  The  extension  links  northern  Ghana  to  the  power  gener- 
ated from  the  Akosombo  Dam. 

The  second  phase  of  the  extension  will  connect  major  towns 
in  Upper  East  Region  with  the  regional  capital,  Bolgatanga,  at 
a  cost  of  US$100  million.  The  final  phase  will  see  exports  of 
electricity  across  the  northern  border  to  Burkina.  In  early 
1991,  furthermore,  the  International  Development  Association 
announced  a  loan  to  the  Electricity  Corporation  of  Ghana  to 
finance  the  supply  and  expansion  of  electricity  networks  in  the 
northwestern  areas  of  Accra.  The  corporation  aims  to  extend 
the  supply  of  electricity  to  all  isolated  centers  where  diesel  is 
the  main  source  of  power. 

Plans  were  also  afoot  to  increase  the  supply  of  electricity  by 
utilization  of  thermal  energy.  Construction  was  anticipated  by 


178 


Hydroelectric  sluices  in  the  Akosombo  Dam 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 

late  1994  on  the  country's  first  thermal  power  generating  plant 
near  Takoradi.  Scheduled  for  completion  in  1997,  the  plant 
will  contribute  300  megawatts  of  electricity  to  the  national  grid. 

Ghana  has  a  National  Nuclear  Research  Institute,  which 
trains  undergraduate  and  postgraduate  students  in  the  tech- 
niques of  nuclear  science  application  in  such  areas  as  agricul- 
ture, medicine,  and  research.  In  late  1994,  work  was  nearing 
completion  on  a  nuclear  reactor  at  Kwabenyan,  near  Accra,  to 
be  used  to  aid  research  in  these  fields.  In  addition,  a  second 
nuclear  physics  center  is  to  be  established  in  Kumasi  on  the 
recommendation  of  the  Ghana  Atomic  Energy  Commission. 

Tourism 

Under  Ghana's  1985  investment  code,  tourism  is  a  priority 
sector  with  incentives  and  benefits  for  investors.  The  govern- 


179 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

ment  hopes  to  triple  its  foreign  exchange  earnings  from  tour- 
ism under  a  five-year  tourism  plan,  based  on  a  projection  that 
between  1991  and  1995,  the  number  of  tourists  visiting  Ghana 
every  year  will  double  from  the  1991  base  of  145,000.  Jobs  in 
the  tourism  industry  are  projected  to  reach  270,000,  with  more 
created  in  other  sectors  that  derive  business  from  the  tourist 
trade.  There  are  also  incentives  for  star-rated  hotels,  approved 
tourist  villages  and  beaches,  and  holiday  recreational  resorts. 
Investors  are  involved  in  the  development  of  other  tourist 
attractions,  such  as  waterfalls,  beaches,  forts,  castles,  and  histor- 
ical sites,  and  even  in  specialized  restaurants,  tourist  coaches, 
and  buses.  Incentives  in  this  sector  include  tax  and  rate  exemp- 
tions on  building  properties  for  three  years  in  addition  to 
investment  and  depreciation  allowances. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

Ghana's  transportation  and  communications  networks  are 
centered  in  the  southern  regions,  especially  the  areas  in  which 
gold,  cocoa,  and  timber  are  produced.  The  northern  and  cen- 
tral areas  are  connected  through  a  major  road  system;  some 
areas,  however,  remain  relatively  isolated. 

The  deterioration  of  the  country's  transportation  and  com- 
munications networks  has  been  blamed  for  impeding  the  distri- 
bution of  economic  inputs  and  food  as  well  as  the  transport  of 
crucial  exports.  Consequently,  the  first  priority  of  the  ERP  was 
to  repair  physical  infrastructure.  Under  the  program's  first 
phase  (1983-86),  the  government  allocated  US$1.5  billion,  or 
36  percent  of  total  investment,  for  that  purpose  and  an  addi- 
tional US$222  million  in  1987  for  road  and  rail  rehabilitation. 
In  1991  the  Ghanaian  government  allocated  27  percent  of  its 
budget  for  various  road  schemes. 

Foreign  donor  support  helped  to  increase  the  number  of 
new  vehicle  registrations  from  8,000  in  1984  to  almost  20,000 
in  1989.  The  distribution  of  vehicles  was  skewed,  however, 
because,  by  1988,  more  than  half  of  all  vehicles  were  in  Accra, 
which  contained  approximately  7  percent  of  the  country's  pop- 
ulation. Furthermore,  most  new  vehicles  are  intended  for  pri- 
vate use  rather  than  for  hauling  goods  and  people,  a  reflection 
of  income  disparities.  Transportation  is  especially  difficult  in 
eastern  regions,  near  the  coast,  and  in  the  vast,  underdevel- 
oped northern  regions,  where  vehicles  are  scarce.  At  any  one 
time,  moreover,  a  large  percentage  of  intercity  buses  and  Accra 
city  buses  are  out  of  service. 


180 


The  Economy 


Roads  and  Railroads 

Ghana  contains  about  32,250  kilometers  of  roads,  of  which 
about  12,000  kilometers  are  main  roads.  Approximately  6,000 
kilometers  are  paved;  the  remainder  are  gravel,  crushed  stone, 
or  graded  earth.  The  country's  rail  network  is  953  kilometers  in 
length;  all  track  is  1.067  meter  (narrow)  gauge  and  all  but 
thirty-two  kilometers  are  single  track.  The  network  connects 
Sekondi-Takoradi  with  Kumasi  and  Accra;  branch  lines  run  to 
Prestea,  Awaso,  Kade,  Tema,  and  Shai  Hills  (see  fig.  10).  Poor 
rural  infrastructure  has  been  blamed  for  problems  in  agricul- 
ture, partly  because  transportation  costs  account  for  about  70 
percent  of  the  difference  between  farm  prices  and  retail  prices. 
Only  about  one-third  of  the  feeder  road  network  can  carry 
vehicular  traffic. 

The  government  has  no  plans  to  extend  the  railway  system 
beyond  its  limited  coverage  of  the  southwestern  regions  of  the 
country.  The  western  section  of  the  rail  system  (Takoradi- 
Kumasi)  was  renovated  under  a  US$240  million  program,  the 
bulk  of  which  the  World  Bank  financed.  Figures  indicate  a 
downward  trend  in  passenger  traffic  from  a  high  of  389  per 
kilometer  in  1988  to  277  per  kilometer  in  1990.  Freight  steadily 
increased  throughout  the  1980s  from  forty-four  million  tons 
per  kilometer  in  1984  to  a  decade  high  of  131  million  tons  per 
kilometer  in  1989. 

The  government  has  instead  focused  on  improvement  of  the 
road  system.  Since  1985  all  trunk  roads  and  about  2,900  kilo- 
meters of  feeder  roads  as  well  as  a  number  of  bridges  and 
drainage  systems  have  been  undergoing  repairs.  For  example, 
275  kilometers  of  the  Accra-Kumasi  road's  northern  section  are 
slated  to  be  repaved,  but  as  of  early  1994  only  the  135  kilome- 
ters from  Kumasi  to  Anyinam  had  been  completed.  In  1987 
Japan  offered  US$80  million  to  rehabilitate  the  main  road 
between  Kumasi  and  Takoradi,  which  carries  cocoa  and  timber 
exports;  this  project  was  well  under  way  in  1993.  By  the  early 
1990s,  a  World  Bank  loan  of  US$22  million  was  funding  the 
rehabilitation  of  three  major  roads  in  Accra  in  yet  another 
effort  to  ease  import  and  export  traffic.  The  road  between 
Tema  and  Akosombo,  an  important  link  in  the  transportation 
network  between  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  and  Burkina,  was  also  due 
for  improvement. 

Ports  and  Shipping 

Ghana  has  two  deep  artificial  harbors,  one  at  Tema  and  the 


181 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  10.  Transportation  System,  1994 

other  at  Takoradi.  The  first  stage  of  the  government's  five-year 
plan  to  improve  Ghana's  physical  infrastructure  began  with  the 
expenditure  of  US$80  million  to  rehabilitate  the  port  at  Tema. 
As  a  result  of  the  work,  the  port's  capacity  for  handling  dry  ton- 
nage rose  by  50  percent  to  2.7  million  tons.  Work  planned  at 
Takoradi  should  increase  capacity  by  128  percent  to  1.6  million 
tons.  The  Volta  River,  the  Ankobra  River,  and  the  Tano  River 
provide  168  kilometers  of  perennial  navigation  for  launches 


182 


The  Economy 


and  lighters.  Lake  Volta  provides  1,125  kilometers  of  arterial 
and  feeder  waterways.  In  addition,  the  government  is  develop- 
ing new  ports  on  Lake  Volta  to  create  an  inland  waterway  net- 
work. Ghana's  merchant  marine  service  includes  six  ships  (five 
cargo  and  one  refrigerated) . 

Civil  Aviation 

On  July  4,  1958,  the  Ghanaian  government  established 
Ghana  Airways  (GA)  to  replace  the  former  African  Airways 
Corporation.  By  the  mid-1990s,  GA  operated  international 
scheduled  passenger  and  cargo  service  to  numerous  European, 
Middle  Eastern,  and  African  destinations,  including  London, 
Dusseldorf,  Rome,  Abidjan,  Dakar,  Lagos,  Lome,  and  Johan- 
nesburg. The  airline  also  operates  direct  service  to  New  York. 
The  GA  fleet  includes  two  Fokker  28s,  one  McDonnell  Douglas 
DC-10,  and  one  McDonnell  Douglas  DC-9.  Since  the  late 
1980s,  GA  has  received  overhaul  and  maintenance  service 
from,  among  others,  Swissair,  Field  Aircraft  Services,  and  Fok- 
ker Aviation.  Historically,  the  airline  has  suffered  from  chronic 
financial  problems  and  thus  has  had  difficulties  meeting  its  for- 
eign debt  obligations.  Additionally,  GA  has  been  unable  to  pur- 
chase new  aircraft  to  bolster  its  domestic  and  regional  routes. 

Ghana  has  eleven  airports,  six  with  hard  surfaced  runways. 
The  most  important  are  Kotoka  International  Airport  at  Accra 
and  airports  at  Sekondi-Takoradi,  Kumasi,  and  Tamale  that 
serve  domestic  air  traffic.  In  1990  the  government  spent  US$12 
million  to  improve  Accra's  facilities.  Workmen  resurfaced  the 
runway,  upgraded  the  lighting  system,  and  built  a  new  freight 
terminal.  Construction  crews  also  extended  and  upgraded  the 
terminal  building  at  Kumasi.  In  early  1991,  the  government 
announced  further  plans  to  improve  Accra's  international  air- 
port. The  main  runway  was  upgraded,  improvements  were 
made  in  freight  landing  and  infrastructure,  and  the  terminal 
building  and  the  airport's  navigational  aids  were  upgraded. 

Telecommunications 

Despite  improvements  carried  out  in  the  1980s  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),  Ghana's  telecommunications  system  continues  to 
be  one  of  the  least  developed  in  Africa.  In  1994  the  country 
counted  about  50,000  telephones,  or  approximately  2.6  tele- 
phones per  1,000  people,  one  of  the  world's  lowest  figures. 
Telephone  service  is  heavily  concentrated  in  Accra,  and  even  in 


183 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

the  capital,  only  government  offices,  large  commercial  con- 
cerns, or  wealthier  households  have  telephone  service.  Domes- 
tic long-distance  communications  are  carried  over  two  radio- 
relay  systems,  one  that  extends  east-west  through  the  major 
coastal  cities,  and  another  that  goes  north  from  the  capital  to 
Burkina.  International  telecommunications,  except  to  neigh- 
boring countries,  are  sent  via  a  satellite  ground  station  near 
Accra.  This  station,  working  with  the  International  Telecom- 
munications Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat)  Atlantic  Ocean 
Satellite,  provides  high-quality  telephone,  television,  and  data 
links  to  countries  in  Africa,  Europe,  and  the  Americas. 

Broadcast  service  is  typical  of  African  countries.  The  country 
has  four  amplitude  modulation  (AM)  radio  stations  and  one 
frequency  modulation  (FM)  radio  station.  Three  shortwave 
transmitters  provide  countrywide  service:  two  for  domestic 
reception  that  broadcast  in  English  and  six  local  languages, 
and  one  international  transmitter  that  broadcasts  in  English, 
French,  and  Hausa.  There  are  four  (eight  translators)  televi- 
sion stations.  Television  transmitters  are  located  at  or  near 
Accra,  Cape  Coast,  Kumasi,  and  Bolgatanga;  eight  low-power 
television  repeaters  are  located  in  smaller  cities.  In  1993  the 
country  had  an  estimated  4  million  radio  receivers  and  250,000 
television  sets. 

In  1992  the  Ghanaian  government  approved  the  formation 
of  a  National  Communications  Commission.  This  organization 
undertakes  numerous  missions,  including  the  promotion  of 
research  and  development,  improvement  of  communications, 
management  of  the  radio  frequency  spectrum,  and  encourage- 
ment of  private  ownership  in  the  telecommunications  sector. 
Given  Ghana's  lack  of  resources  and  the  difficulty  of  acquiring 
foreign  aid,  it  is  unlikely  that  the  commission  will  make  any  sig- 
nificant improvements  in  the  country's  telecommunications 
system  in  the  near  future. 

Foreign  Investments  and  Assistance 

Despite  efforts  to  increase  private  capital  participation  in  the 
Ghanaian  economy,  in  the  early  1990s  foreign  investments  con- 
tinued to  be  sparse,  and  the  economy  relied  heavily  on  aid  and 
loans.  By  1991  the  external  debt  exceeded  US$4  billion,  and  it 
was  nearly  US$4.3  billion  in  1992,  an  amount  equal  to  the  level 
of  assistance  provided  by  donors  over  the  previous  decade.  The 
country  continued  to  experience  trade  and  service  deficits 
even  though  exports  increased. 


184 


Buses,  such  as  this  one  at  Navrongo  in  far  northern  Ghana,  are  a  vital 

part  of  local  transportation. 
Courtesy  life  in  general  (Brook,  Rose,  and  Cooper  Le  Van) 
Traffic  on  the  highway  between  Winneba  and  Accra 

Courtesy  James  Sanders 


185 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 
Investment 

Despite  efforts  to  induce  foreign  investment  in  the  economy, 
interest  has  been  restricted  primarily  to  the  mining  sector. 
Although  at  least  eleven  mining  companies  enjoyed  some  for- 
eign participation  by  1990,  the  government  had  succeeded  in 
creating  only  two  joint  ventures  in  former  state  enterprises  out- 
side the  mining  industry. 

In  1985  the  government  adopted  an  investment  code  to 
encourage  foreign  investment.  It  excluded  the  petroleum  and 
mining  sectors,  for  which  the  government  introduced  a  sepa- 
rate code  in  1986;  and  it  offered  special  conditions  for  agricul- 
ture, manufacturing  (for  export,  using  local  raw  materials,  and 
for  the  production  of  agricultural  equipment,  spare  parts,  and 
machine  tools),  construction,  and  tourism.  Agricultural 
projects  were  given  a  45  percent  corporate  income  tax  allow- 
ance, a  100  percent  allowance  on  plant  and  equipment,  and  a 
10  percent  investment  allowance.  In  manufacturing  and  con- 
struction, the  investment  allowance  was  7.5  percent,  with 
depreciation  and  capital  allowances  of  40  percent  and  50  per- 
cent, respectively,  the  latter  two  halved  in  subsequent  years. 
Finally,  in  tourism,  the  investment  allowance  was  7.5  percent, 
and  the  depreciation  allowances  were  50  percent  for  plant  and 
20  percent  for  buildings,  which  also  were  halved  in  subsequent 
years.  In  all  cases,  imports  required  for  the  projects  were 
exempted  from  duties.  Additional  tax  reductions  were  granted 
to  projects  located  in  Kumasi  and  Sekondi-Takoradi,  while 
other  areas  (excluding  Accra-Tema)  were  given  even  larger 
reductions. 

Some  activities  (retail  and  wholesale  trade,  except  where 
employed  capital  was  over  US$500,000;  land  transport;  travel- 
advertising;  estate  agencies)  were  reserved  for  Ghanaian- 
owned  firms.  Foreign  investors  were  required  to  supply  a  mini- 
mum of  US$60,000  in  the  case  of  partnerships  with  Ghanaians, 
or  US$100,000  in  the  case  of  fully  owned  enterprises.  Only  net 
foreign-exchange  earning  ventures  were  allowed  to  be  fully 
owned  by  foreigners.  The  code  guaranteed  investments  against 
nationalization,  and  where  disputes  needed  arbitration,  they 
were  to  be  settled  through  existing  international  forums. 
Transfers  abroad  were  allowed  for  dividend  payments,  debt  ser- 
vicing, charges  for  technology  transfers,  or  liquidation  of  enter- 
prises. Implementation  of  the  code  and  processing  of 
applications  by  potential  investors  were  made  the  responsibili- 
ties of  the  Ghana  Investment  Center. 


186 


The  Economy 


In  mid-1993  Minister  of  Finance  Kwesi  Botchwey  announced 
that  a  new  investment  code  had  been  presented  to  Ghana's  par- 
liament. Under  the  new  code,  minimum  foreign  capital 
requirements  for  joint  ventures  will  be  dropped  from 
US$60,000  to  US$10,000,  and  the  minimum  for  fully  owned 
foreign  enterprises  will  be  reduced  to  US$50,000.  Companies 
established  solely  for  export  will  be  exempt  from  the  minimum 
capital  requirement.  The  new  code  outlaws  government  expro- 
priations and  provides  a  five-year  tax  holiday  for  the  agricul- 
tural and  real  estate  sectors. 

Foreign  Assistance  and  Loans 

Ghana's  economic  well-being  and  recovery  program  are 
closely  tied  to  significant  levels  of  foreign  loans  and  assistance, 
especially  from  the  World  Bank  and  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund.  Altogether,  between  1982  and  1990  foreign  and 
multilateral  donors  disbursed  a  total  of  approximately  US$3.5 
billion  in  official  development  assistance;  at  the  same  time,  the 
country's  external  debt  reached  US$3.5  billion.  By  1991  the 
largest  bilateral  donors  were  Germany,  the  United  States, 
Japan,  and  Canada,  which  together  provided  Ghana  with 
US$656  million  in  development  assistance.  The  largest  multi- 
lateral donors  in  1991  included  the  European  Community,  the 
IMF,  and  the  International  Development  Association,  which 
furnished  almost  US$435  million  to  Ghana. 

In  addition,  the  government  obtained  five  IMF  programs 
amounting  to  approximately  US$1.6  billion:  three  standby 
loans,  simultaneous  Extended  Fund  Facility  and  Structural 
Adjustment  Facility  loans,  and  an  Enhanced  Structural  Adjust- 
ment Facility  loan  in  1988.  The  government  signed  more  than 
twenty  policy-based  program  loans  with  the  World  Bank.  The 
World  Bank  also  sponsored  six  consultative  group  meetings; 
the  first,  held  in  November  1983,  resulted  in  pledges  of 
US$190  million.  Between  1984  and  1991,  almost  US$3.5  billion 
more  was  raised  at  five  additional  meetings. 

In  1991  Ghana  successfully  raised  the  country's  first  syndi- 
cated loan  in  almost  twenty  years  in  the  amount  of  US$75  mil- 
lion. The  loan's  collateral  was  a  proportion  of  the  country's 
cocoa  crop.  Special  arrangements  were  made  to  ensure  that  a 
specific  amount  of  the  crop  was  purchased  using  letters  of 
credit.  Then  in  March  1992,  the  IMF  announced  that  following 
the  expiration  of  Ghana's  third  and  final  arrangement  under 
the  Enhanced  Structural  Adjustment  Facility,  Ghana  needed 


187 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


no  further  IMF  financing.  Even  so,  the  Ghanaian  government 
asked  the  IMF  to  monitor  progress  on  the  country's  economic 
program  and  to  continue  policy  dialogue. 

In  early  1994,  Ghana  accepted  the  obligations  of  Article  VIII 
of  the  IMF's  Articles  of  Agreement.  According  to  the  IMF, 
Ghana  will  no  longer  impose  restrictions  on  payments  and 
transfers  for  current  international  transactions  or  engage  in 
discriminatory  currency  arrangements  or  multiple  currency 
practice  without  IMF  approval.  Ghana's  decision  undoubtedly 
will  enhance  its  image  with  foreign  investors  and  bankers. 

Balance  of  Trade  and  Payments 

Despite  efforts  under  the  ERP  to  stabilize  the  country's  bal- 
ance of  payments,  Ghana's  current  account  remained  in  deficit 
throughout  the  1980s  and  into  the  early  1990s.  Both  trade  and 
services  deficits  continued  into  the  1990s,  given  the  country's 
dependence  on  concessional  inflows  and  IMF  funding.  The 
current  account  deficit  fell  by  US$91  million  in  1986  from 
US$134  million  in  1985,  but  it  rose  again  by  US$54  million  in 
1987.  After  another  recovery  in  1988,  the  deficit  was  back  at 
US$99  million  in  1989  and  widened  to  US$228  million  in  1990, 
US$253  million  in  1991,  and  US$378  million  in  1992.  It  was 
projected  to  fall  to  US$190  million  in  1994  (see  table  10, 
Appendix). 

The  government  did  succeed,  however,  in  building  up  at 
least  some  external  reserves.  By  the  end  of  1991,  official  for- 
eign-exchange reserves  totaled  US$538  million,  more  than 
double  the  level  at  the  end  of  1990  and  the  highest  amount  for 
at  least  a  decade.  The  increase  resulted  from  the  Bank  of 
Ghana's  attempt  to  boost  reserves  to  cover  more  than  four 
months'  imports.  For  example,  the  government  allowed 
exporting  companies  to  retain  some  of  their  foreign-exchange 
earnings  inside  the  country.  For  Ashanti  Goldfields  Corpora- 
tion, the  portion  is  45  percent.  Exporters  of  other  products, 
except  cocoa,  may  keep  up  to  35  percent  of  earnings  in  reten- 
tion accounts,  and  the  Ghana  Cocoa  Board  may  keep  10  per- 
cent. The  retained  export  earnings  can  be  used  for  the  import 
of  equipment,  spare  parts,  and  essential  inputs  as  well  as  for 
meeting  the  exporters'  external  financial  obligations.  By  late 
December  1991,  foreign  exchange  reserves  were  sufficient  to 
finance  almost  twenty  weeks  of  imports.  In  1992  foreign- 
exchange  reserves  dropped  to  US$291.6  million  because  the 
government  had  to  use  its  reserves  to  cover  current  foreign 


188 


The  Economy 


obligations.  By  September  1993,  the  foreign-exchange  reserve 
totalled  US$276.9  million. 

Foreign  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Ghanaian  banking  system 
as  a  whole  showed  a  positive  trend.  Compared  with  the  first 
half  of  1991,  Ghana's  assets  with  reporting  banks  rose  by  14.7 
percent  to  US$1  billion  in  the  second  half  of  the  year.  Assets  at 
the  end  of  1991  were  12.7  percent  higher  than  the  US$923  mil- 
lion on  hand  at  the  end  of  1990.  Liabilities  also  rose  signifi- 
cantly from  US$368  million  to  US$437  million  during  the  first 
half  of  1991  and  by  25.9  percent  during  the  year  as  a  whole. 
Overall,  however,  there  was  a  positive  net  increase.  Net  assets 
stood  at  US$603  million  at  the  end  of  1991  as  against  US$539 
million  in  June  1991  and  US$576  million  in  December  1990. 

Growth  Trends  and  Potential 

During  the  1980s,  the  Ghanaian  government  successfully 
rehabilitated  major  economic  sectors  that  had  deteriorated 
since  the  1960s.  Throughout  the  decade,  Ghana  saw  growth  in 
GDP  and  the  repair  of  some  of  its  economic  infrastructure. 
Through  fiscal  austerity,  the  government  achieved  balanced 
budgets  at  the  same  time  that  it  invested  in  development 
projects.  In  particular,  the  export  sector  regained  some 
strength  by  the  early  1990s  with  a  resurgence  in  cocoa,  gold, 
and  timber  exports. 

The  cost  of  this  growth,  however,  raised  serious  questions 
about  the  long-term  viability  of  the  government's  programs. 
Growth  has  been  possible  only  through  foreign  assistance  and 
loans,  which  totaled  US$7  billion  by  1990.  Although  the  gov- 
ernment has  been  effective  in  directing  these  funds  toward 
productive  sectors,  it  has  cut  current  spending  on  social  ser- 
vices, which  will  require  attention  in  the  future.  Currency 
devaluations,  while  helping  exports,  have  increased  both  the 
cost  of  living  and  prices  for  imports.  Most  important,  the  gov- 
ernment has  emphasized  export  production,  while  subjecting 
import-substitution  industries  to  stiff  foreign  competition  and 
neglecting  local  crop  production,  leading  to  an  increasing  reli- 
ance on  imports  of  goods  and  food.  Thus,  although  exports 
have  increased,  they  have  been  offset  by  rising  imports,  with 
the  result  that  Ghanaians  are  increasingly  subjected  to  higher 
prices. 

The  Economic  Recovery  Program  has  succeeded  in  allowing 
Ghana  to  regain  its  international  credit  standing  and  has 
curbed  the  worst  excesses  of  economic  protectionism.  The 


189 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

country  is  in  a  position  to  exploit  its  considerable  agricultural 
and  mineral  potential.  At  the  same  time,  sustained  long-term 
growth  will  require  that  attention  be  given  to  domestic  indus- 
tries and  to  consumption  rather  than  exclusively  to  exports  and 
the  wealth  generated  thereby. 

*  *  * 

Sources  on  Ghana's  economic  past  and  present  are  relatively 
rich  and  varied  because  of  the  country's  continuing  promi- 
nence in  discussions  about  economic  development  and  struc- 
tural adjustment  programs  on  the  African  continent.  For  good 
historical  studies,  see  Kwame  Yeboah  Daaku's  Trade  and  Politics 
on  the  Gold  Coast,  1600-1720  and  Edward  Reynolds's  Trade  and 
Economic  Change  on  the  Gold  Coast,  1807-1874.  Polly  Hill's  study, 
The  Migrant  Cocoa-Farmers  of  Southern  Ghana:  A  Study  in  Rural 
Capitalism,  is  a  seminal  examination  of  African  economic  initia- 
tive and  enterprise  during  the  colonial  period.  For  the  inde- 
pendence period,  see  Tony  Killick's  Development  Economics  in 
Action:  A  Study  of  Economic  Policies  in  Ghana,  Douglas  Rimmer's 
Staying  Poor:  Ghana' s  Political  Economy,  1950-1990,  and  Donald 
Rothchild's  "Ghana  and  Structural  Adjustment:  An  Overview." 
The  multilateral  assistance  organizations  have  also  published 
numerous  studies  of  Ghana  in  light  of  its  prominence  as  a 
showcase  of  structural  adjustment  policies.  They  include  the 
Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development 
study  by  Alan  Roe  and  Hartmut  Schneider,  Adjustment  and 
Equity  in  Ghana,  the  World  Bank's  Ghana:  2000  and  Beyond:  Set- 
ting the  Stage  for  Accelerated  Growth  and  Poverty  Reduction,  and  the 
International  Monetary  Fund's  Ghana:  Adjustment  and  Growth, 
1983-91.  For  statistics  and  current  information,  see  Ghana  in 
Figures,  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statistics,  and  Statistical  Newsletter,  all 
published  by  the  Ghanaian  government's  Statistical  Service, 
and  the  Economist  Intelligence  Unit's  quarterly  Country  Report: 
Ghana  and  annual  Country  Profile:  Ghana.  Numerous  periodi- 
cals contain  much  information  about  Ghana's  economy, 
including  African  Business,  Africa  Economic  Digest,  and  Africa 
Research  Bulletin.  (For  further  information  and  complete  cita- 
tions, see  Bibliography.) 


190 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


A  wooden  stool,  decorated  -with  silver,  from  the  palace  asantehene  in 
Kumasi;  traditional  symbol  of  authority  (Asante) 


AFTER  AN  UNHAPPY  SURVEY  of  the  tragic  history  of  liberal 
democracy  in  post-colonial  Africa — a  survey  in  which  Ghana 
was  certainly  at  the  forefront — two  astute  observers  of  the  Afri- 
can political  scene  asked,  "If  Western  democracy  .  .  .  ended  up 
looking  like  a  sad  cross  between  paternalism  and  corruption, 
what  are  the  alternatives?  What  might  an  indigenous  African 
form  of  democracy  look  like?"  They  claimed  that  the  answer 
had  to  be  sought  in  the  ideas  and  forms  of  equality  and  partici- 
pation found  in  the  village  council  and  similar  institutions  of 
community  governance.  Thus,  according  to  them,  a  "greater 
reliance  on  modern  variations  of  these  forms  might  succeed 
where  Western  forms  of  democracy  had  failed." 

Ideas  similar  to  these  helped  inspire  the  31st  December  1981 
Revolution  in  Ghana.  The  revolution  set  in  motion  a  process  of 
national  democratic  transformation  linked  to  the  unfulfilled 
democratic  ideals  and  aspirations  of  the  June  4,  1979,  popular 
uprising  led  by  Jerry  John  Rawlings,  chairman  of  what  became 
the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (PNDC)  after  1981. 
The  PNDC  leadership  insisted  that  the  revolution  was  not  a  car- 
bon copy  of  any  other  revolution  and  that  it  was  aimed  at 
resolving  Ghana's  socio-economic  problems,  using  Ghana's  his- 
torical experiences  and  cultural  traditions  as  a  basis.  Thus,  the 
PNDC  leadership  effectively  challenged  the  notion  that  the 
options  for  Ghana's  evolving  democratic  institutions  and  popu- 
lar grass-roots  structures  were  limited  to  different  versions  of 
Marxism-Leninism,  Western-style  liberalism  of  the  "left"  or 
"right,"  or  military  rule,  which  had  been  practiced  before  the 
revolution  and  had  not  worked. 

Accordingly,  four  major,  related  themes  of  PNDC  rule 
remained  relatively  constant  throughout  the  tumultuous  transi- 
tion to  constitutional  democracy,  a  movement  that  had  wide- 
spread popular  support.  These  were:  a  rejection  of  extreme 
ideological  tendencies  and  of  multiparty  politics  as  practiced  in 
Ghana  since  independence,  which  had  been  divisive,  corrupt, 
and  elitist;  decentralization,  aimed  at  the  practical  application 
of  the  ideas  of  mass  participation  going  back  to  the  early 
nationalist  struggles  against  colonialism  and  at  achieving  a  fun- 
damental restructuring  of  the  machinery  of  government;  estab- 
lishment of  democratic  structures  and  institutions  at  every  level 
of  society;  and  national  unity  and  commitment  to  the  ideals  of 


193 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Pan-Africanism,  nonalignment,  and  noninterference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  other  countries. 

What  perhaps  ultimately  distinguished  the  PNDC  period 
from  others  were,  on  the  negative  side,  the  extent  of  political 
violence,  repression  of  political  dissent,  and  widespread  human 
rights  violations,  which  especially  characterized  the  early 
period  of  PNDC  rule.  On  the  positive  side,  the  PNDC  was 
noted  for  its  extraordinary  ability  to  put  together  a  capable 
team  with  the  political  will  and  resourcefulness  to  pull  the 
country  out  of  its  deepest  economic  crisis  in  living  memory 
and  to  return  the  country  to  democracy  in  the  face  of  persis- 
tent "counterrevolutionary"  pressures,  numerous  coup 
attempts,  and  moves  to  destabilize  the  regime. 

The  PNDC  government  lasted  for  eleven  turbulent  years  and 
survived  presidential  and  parliamentary  elections  in  1992.  In 
January  1993,  Rawlings  effected  a  relatively  peaceful  transition 
from  military  ruler  to  elected  president  of  the  Fourth  Repub- 
lic. His  pledge  of  policy  continuity  has  ensured  that  in  many 
significant  respects  the  PNDC  remains  in  power,  but  there  is  an 
important  difference.  The  present  government  was  elected 
under  a  new  democratic  constitution  that  guarantees  funda- 
mental human  rights,  independence  of  the  media,  civil  liber- 
ties, and  the  rule  of  law. 

The  Provisional  National  Defence  Council 

Within  thirty-five  years  of  Ghana's  becoming  a  sovereign 
state,  the  country  experienced,  before  its  fourth  return  to  mul- 
tiparty democratic  government  in  January  1993,  nine  different 
governments  (three  civilian  and  six  military),  including  a  West- 
minster-style parliamentary  democracy,  a  socialist  single-party 
republic,  and  several  military  regimes  following  coups  in  1966, 
1972,  1979,  and  1981  (see  Independent  Ghana;  The  Fall  of  the 
Nkrumah  Regime  and  Its  Aftermath;  and  Ghana  and  the  Rawl- 
ings Era,  ch.  1;  table  11,  Appendix). 

The  national  leadership  of  postcolonial  Ghana  inherited 
state  machinery  that  had  evolved  under  British  rule  and  that 
emphasized  strong  centralization  of  power  and  top-down  deci- 
sion making.  Kwame  Nkrumah — prime  minister,  1957-60; 
president,  1960-66 — unsuccessfully  attempted  to  create  a 
socialist  economy  in  the  early  1960s,  but  his  effort  merely 
served  to  compound  the  inevitable  problems  and  dangers  of 
administrative  centralization  and  state  intervention  in  the 
economy.  These  problems,  which  survived  Nkrumah,  included 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


political  corruption,  self-enrichment,  misuse  of  power,  lack  of 
public  accountability,  and  economic  mismanagement,  leading 
in  turn  to  economic  decline  and  stagnation  and  to  the  rapid 
erosion  of  political  legitimacy  and  attendant  coups  d'etat. 
Authoritarian  or  arbitrary  styles  of  leadership  that  limited  gen- 
uine democratic  participation  and  public  debate  on  policy  as 
well  as  the  lack  of  political  vision  of  successive  postcolonial 
regimes  (with  the  exception  of  Nkrumah's)  contributed  greatly 
to  political  instability  and  to  the  rapid  alternation  of  civilian 
and  military  rule. 

One  of  the  changes  in  government  came  on  June  4,  1979, 
when  a  handful  of  junior  officers  seized  power  less  than  a 
month  before  scheduled  elections.  An  Armed  Forces  Revolu- 
tionary Council  (AFRC)  was  formed  with  the  overriding  objec- 
tive of  ridding  Ghana  of  official  corruption,  indiscipline  in 
public  life,  and  economic  mismanagement  before  handing 
over  power  to  a  civilian  government.  A  relatively  unknown 
twenty-nine-year-old  air  force  flight  lieutenant,  Jerry  John  Raw- 
lings,  emerged  as  the  leader  of  the  AFRC.  The  so-called  house- 
cleaning  exercise  embarked  upon  by  the  AFRC  was  extended 
to  a  variety  of  civilian  economic  malpractices  such  as  hoarding, 
profiteering,  and  black-marketing. 

Parliamentary  elections  were  duly  held  on  June  18,  1979,  as 
planned.  A  party  of  the  Nkrumahist  tradition,  the  People's 
National  Party  (PNP),  won  a  majority  of  the  parliamentary 
seats,  and  its  leader,  Hilla  Limann,  became  president  after  a 
run-off  election.  On  September  24,  1979,  the  AFRC  handed 
over  government  to  the  PNP.  At  this  time,  Rawlings  warned  the 
PNP  government  that  it  was  on  probation  and  admonished  the 
incoming  officials  to  put  the  interest  of  the  people  first. 

The  PNP  administration  was  short-lived.  On  December  31, 
1981,  Rawlings  returned  to  office  for  the  second  time  as  head 
of  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (PNDC).  He 
insisted  that  the  31st  December  1981  Revolution  was  necessi- 
tated, among  other  factors,  by  the  failure  of  the  PNP  adminis- 
tration to  provide  effective  leadership  and  by  the  virtual 
collapse  of  the  national  economy  and  of  state  services.  Upon 
assuming  power,  Rawlings  immediately  declared  a  "holy  war" 
aimed  at  restructuring  national  political  institutions,  establish- 
ing genuine  democracy  based  on  Ghanaian  ideals  and  tradi- 
tions, and  rehabilitating  the  economy. 


195 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


The  Political  Scene  under  the  PNDC 

For  democracy  to  function  effectively  in  Ghana,  it  was  neces- 
sary to  relate  Western  democratic  processes  to  Ghanaian  politi- 
cal traditions.  Peter  Du  Sautoy,  a  former  district  commissioner, 
recalled  his  attempt  to  explain  British  democracy  in  the  coun- 
try before  independence.  His  audience  understood  the  process 
of  election,  but  he  was  asked  how  one  got  rid  of  one's  represen- 
tative when  he  no  longer  seemed  to  be  representative.  Du  Sau- 
toy explained  that  one  waited  until  the  next  election  four  or 
five  years  later.  His  Ghanaian  audience  felt  that  "this  was  most 
undemocratic — from  time  immemorial  they  had  been  able  to 
get  rid  of  their  chiefs  at  any  time,  when,  after  mature  consider- 
ation and  discussion,  they  felt  they  no  longer  had  confidence 
in  them." 

This  observation  clearly  defines  one  enduring  aspect  of  the 
relationship  between  politics  and  democracy  as  understood  by 
the  ordinary  Ghanaian.  It  also  highlights  the  significance  of 
indigenous  political  ideology  and  attitudes  that  constitute  the 
core  elements  of  the  contemporary  Ghanaian  political  tradi- 
tion. This  political  tradition,  along  with  inherited  colonial  and 
Christian  elements,  informs  and  shapes  the  institutional  pat- 
tern of  political  life.  Its  basic  principles  influence  disputes  and 
conflicts  over  the  organization,  distribution,  maintenance, 
exercise,  and  transfer  of  power,  and  the  allocation  of  economic 
resources  in  Ghanaian  society. 

The  published  speeches  of  Rawlings  provide  evidence  of  the 
effective  use  of  symbols  and  principles  drawn  from  ancestral 
religious  beliefs,  Christianity,  and  chieftaincy.  Indeed,  Rawlings 
insisted  throughout  PNDC  rule  that  the  revolution's  main  and 
long-term  goal  was  to  create  a  more  just  society  in  which  the 
interests  of  the  majority  were  not  repressed  in  favor  of  those  of 
a  tiny  minority  and  in  which  the  productivity  of  all  Ghanaians 
would  increase.  He  saw  participatory  democracy  as  the  best 
guarantee  of  such  a  society. 

The  PNDC  leadership  could  scarcely  avoid  the  ideological 
tension  and  strife  generic  to  Ghanaian  popular  movements 
and  mass-based  political  programs.  Ironically,  the  ideological 
strife  that  haunted  the  PNDC  leadership  was  similar  to  that 
which  wrecked  the  PNP.  In  1980  Limann,  PNP  leader  and  pres- 
ident of  Ghana,  had  complained  helplessly  that  the  PNP  as  a 
mass  party  spanned  the  whole  range  of  political  ideas.  He 
pointed  out  that  party  members  included  pragmatists,  leftists, 
rightists,  and  centrists,  and  he  stressed  that  no  national  party 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


with  a  broad  social  base  could  escape  this  mix.  The  left  wing  of 
the  PNP — for  example,  the  Kwame  Nkrumah  Revolutionary 
Guards — was  Limann's  severest  critic.  Some  of  the  leaders  of 
the  same  left  wing  and  similar  organizations  joined  the  PNDC 
and  attempted  unsuccessfully  in  the  early  years  of  the  revolu- 
tionary period  to  transform  what  was  clearly  a  nationalist,  pop- 
ular revolution  in  the  direction  of  Marxism-Leninism  (see  The 
Second  Coming  of  Rawlings:  The  First  Six  Years,  1982-87,  ch. 

In  the  first  year  after  the  1981  revolution,  the  PNDC  regime 
established  new  political  structures  and  legal  institutions.  The 
new  administration  rebuilt  or  reformed  much  of  the  pre-exist- 
ing local,  regional,  and  national  administrative  machinery  of 
governance  in  accordance  with  the  avowed  goals  of  the  revolu- 
tion. During  the  following  ten  years,  many  of  these  new  struc- 
tures of  governance  and  consultation  were  modified  in 
response  to  the  demands  of  efficiency,  social  and  economic 
realities,  and  internal  and  external  political  pressures.  A  num- 
ber of  these  institutional  and  structural  changes  were  incorpo- 
rated into  the  1992  constitution  of  the  Fourth  Republic. 

One  such  institution  was  the  National  Commission  for 
Democracy  (NCD),  which  evolved  from  the  Electoral  Commis- 
sion of  the  Third  Republic.  In  1984  the  NCD  invited  the  public 
to  submit  proposals  on  the  future  form  of  democratic  govern- 
ment for  the  country.  In  addition,  public  meetings  were  held  to 
discuss  ways  to  realize  true  democracy  in  Ghana.  As  a  result  of 
these  and  other  efforts,  the  NCD  published  its  "Blue  Book"  on 
the  creation  of  district  political  authority  and  on  holding  elec- 
tions. These  efforts  culminated  in  the  district  elections  of  1988 
and  the  subsequent  establishment  of  110  district  assemblies.  In 
July  1990,  the  NCD  initiated  more  public  debates  on  the  future 
political  system  of  the  country.  This  marked  a  significant  step 
in  the  transition  to  democracy,  which  ended  with  the  presiden- 
tial and  parliamentary  elections  in  November  and  December 
1992. 

By  the  late  1980s,  the  PNDC  comprised  nine  members,  the 
most  important  being  Rawlings,  the  chairman.  It  was  the  high- 
est legislative  and  administrative  body  of  the  state.  Below  the 
PNDC  was  the  Committee  of  Secretaries  (cabinet),  made  up  of 
nineteen  secretaries  (ministers)  who  met  on  a  weekly  basis 
under  the  chairmanship  of  a  PNDC  member  (see  fig.  11).  The 
most  prominent  of  the  secretaries  were  those  in  charge  of 
finance  and  economic  planning,  foreign  affairs,  education  and 


197 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


z 

'■m- 
m 

< 

o 

=> 
■■■ 


LU 

LU  QC 

Q.O 
DO 
CO 


<Q< 
<  Q.  CC 


LL  LU 
O  Q_ 

Q. 

< 


 xoc 

MOD 

io 
o 


CO 


2b 
om 

LU  ~ 


CO 

t 

Eo 
oo 


CO 

_l 
o< 

Ei 

com 
occ 


of 
tree 

coo 


>-co 


il 

of 


Ob 


,  LU 

LU 

-!luuj 

t—  LU  LU 

OOH 

2lu5 

O^i 

<2lu2 

qqO 

o 

LU  ^ 

-I 

LU 

u-co 

LUlu 
Q  LU 


Oo 

go 


LU 
O 

5(0 

U_  LU 
LU  LU 

Qi= 

LU 

^O 

Eo 
o 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


culture,  local  government  and  rural  development,  agriculture, 
health,  mobilization  and  productivity,  and  chieftaincy  affairs. 

Revolutionary  Organs 

To  lay  the  foundation  for  true  democracy  in  Ghana,  the 
PNDC  created  a  controversial  countrywide  network  of  People's 
Defence  Committees  (PDCs)  and  Workers'  Defence  Commit- 
tees (WDCs),  reorganized  and  renamed  in  late  1984  as  Com- 
mittees for  the  Defence  of  the  Revolution  (CDRs).  Established 
in  villages,  urban  communities,  and  workplaces,  the  CDRs  were 
intended  to  be  organs  of  popular  power  and  political  initiative. 
Forces'  Defence  Committees  were  established  in  the  armed 
forces  and  the  police  service. 

The  most  important  aspect  of  the  reorganization  of  the 
PDCs  and  the  WDCs  from  the  standpoint  of  the  political  and 
socioeconomic  functions  of  the  CDRs  was  the  opening  up  of 
membership  to  all  Ghanaians.  This  decision  reversed  the  ear- 
lier exclusion  from  PDC/WDC  membership  of  elite  groups, 
such  as  chiefs  and  so-called  exploiting  classes.  The  change 
returned  the  revolution  to  its  original  objective  of  involving  all 
Ghanaians  in  decision  making  and  opened  up  possibilities  for 
genuine  national  reconciliation.  According  to  official  direc- 
tives, the  principal  functions  of  the  CDRs  were  to  ensure  demo- 
cratic participation  in  decision  making  in  all  communities  and 
workplaces;  to  guard  against  corruption,  abuse  of  power,  sabo- 
tage, and  social  injustice;  and  to  promote  sustained  national 
productivity  by  focusing  efforts  on  the  productive  sectors  of  the 
economy. 

The  other  mass  organizations  of  the  revolution  were  the 
National  Mobilisation  Program,  the  31st  December  Women's 
Movement,  the  Civil  Defence  Organisation  (the  militia),  the 
National  Youth  Organising  Commission,  and  the  June  Fourth 
Movement.  The  National  Mobilisation  Program  started  as  an 
emergency  program  to  receive  and  resettle  Ghanaian  return- 
ees from  Nigeria  in  1983.  It  soon  developed  into  a  cooperative 
movement  engaged  in  a  variety  of  economic  and  community 
development  projects  throughout  Ghana.  The  31st  December 
Women's  Movement  aimed  to  bring  about  the  political,  social, 
and  economic  emancipation  of  Ghanaian  women,  especially 
rural  women. 

The  Civil  Defence  Organisation,  popularly  known  as  the 
militia,  was  set  up  as  a  paramilitary  institution  to  assist  other 
state  organizations  in  national  emergencies  such  as  invasions, 


199 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

bush  fires,  and  floods.  Members  received  special  training  in 
combat  readiness  to  defend  the  nation  against  internal  and 
external  aggression  and  economic  sabotage.  The  militia,  in 
addition  to  combating  crime  in  local  communities,  engaged  in 
voluntary  social  and  economic  activities  to  help  promote  com- 
munity development.  In  this  effort,  it  was  often  assisted  by  the 
National  Youth  Organising  Commission,  created  in  1982  as 
part  of  the  PNDC's  efforts  to  establish  a  youth  movement  to 
carry  out  the  objectives  of  the  31st  December  1981  Revolution. 

The  June  Fourth  Movement  was  a  militant  mass  revolution- 
ary movement  dedicated  to  keeping  alive  the  ideals  of  the  June 
4,  1979,  uprising  that  Rawlings  had  led.  It  sought  to  arouse  the 
population  at  large  to  assist  in  establishing  so-called  people's 
power  within  the  avowed  objectives  of  the  revolutionary  pro- 
cess. On  a  practical  level,  it  worked  with  the  militia  and  the 
National  Youth  Organising  Commission  in  various  community 
development  projects. 

Participatory  opportunities  of  the  ordinary  Ghanaian  citizen 
were  significantly  expanded  through  membership  in  revolu- 
tionary organs.  Before  the  establishment  of  the  district  assem- 
blies in  1989,  the  PNDC  government  was  thus  able  to  reach  the 
rural  population  and  to  broaden  its  base  of  support  by  direct 
consultation.  This  was  achieved  through  chiefs,  the  CDRs,  and 
other  national  bodies  such  as  the  Democratic  Youth  League  of 
Ghana,  which  in  1988  claimed  a  nationwide  membership  of 
more  than  100,000.  Other  such  groups  included  farmers'  orga- 
nizations, market  women's  associations,  trade  union  groups, 
students'  organizations,  and  religious  and  other  bodies.  The 
PNDC's  political  opposition,  however,  hotly  contested  the  dem- 
ocratic nature  of  such  organs  and  saw  them  as  nothing  but 
state-sponsored  vigilantes  engaged  in  intimidation  and  human 
rights  abuses. 

The  Transition  from  Military  Rule  to  Democratic 
Government 

Political  Ferment  under  the  PNDC 

As  the  country  prepared  to  move  toward  constitutional  rule 
in  the  late  1980s,  the  major  concern  of  Ghanaians  was  how  to 
ensure  a  relatively  smooth  and  peaceful  democratic  transition. 
This  concern  was  shared  by  the  opposition,  the  activities  of 
which  were  under  constant  surveillance  by  the  national  secu- 
rity agencies,  and  by  the  ruling  PNDC,  under  pressure  to 


200 


Government  and  Politics 


present  a  clear,  firm  timetable  and  program  for  a  return  to  con- 
stitutional government. 

The  transition  process  had  unsavory  features  that  many  Gha- 
naians believed  could  lead  to  an  outbreak  of  violence.  Intense 
mutual  suspicion  and  antipathy  existed  between  the  PNDC 
leadership  and  the  opposition  going  back  to  the  June  4,  1979, 
uprising  and  the  draconian  measures  taken  by  the  AFRC.  On 
one  side,  Rawlings  and  the  PNDC  saw  the  opposition  leaders 
not  as  individuals  genuinely  interested  in  real  democracy  but  as 
elitist,  corrupt,  and  self-seeking  "big  men"  who  had  vowed  to 
fight  to  the  bitter  end  to  reverse  the  gains  of  the  revolution  and 
to  restore  the  old  system  of  corruption  and  exploitation. 

On  the  other  side,  the  opposition  viewed  Rawlings  and  his 
Ewe  ethnic  henchmen,  notably  Kojo  Tsikata,  his  chief  of  secu- 
rity, as  a  bloodthirsty  group  with  the  worst  human  rights  record 
in  postcolonial  Ghanaian  history  and  one  that  was  determined 
to  retain  power  by  any  means.  Many  opposition  leaders  could 
not  forgive  Rawlings  for  the  loss  of  lives,  power,  and  property, 
and  for  the  incarcerations  inflicted  on  friends  and  relatives,  if 
not  on  themselves,  by  the  PNDC  regime.  The  once  respectable 
professional  elite  of  comfortable  lawyers,  doctors,  university 
professors,  businessmen,  and  politicians  in  exile  abroad  could 
not  hide  their  outrage  at  Ghana's  being  ruled  by,  in  their  view, 
a  young,  inexperienced,  half-educated  military  upstart. 

It  is  against  this  background  of  intense  mutual  hostility  and 
distrust  and  vicious  political  rivalry  that  the  evolution  of  the 
democratic  transition  between  1988  and  the  inauguration  of 
the  Fourth  Republic  in  January  1993  should  be  assessed  and 
understood.  This  long  transition  process  was  characterized  by 
two  related  struggles:  the  struggle  for  recovery  from  decades  of 
economic  decline  and  for  better  living  standards  for  the  aver- 
age Ghanaian;  and  the  struggle  for  "true  democracy,"  the 
meaning  of  which  was  hotly  debated  and  gradually  shifted, 
especially  after  1988.  These  national  struggles  led  to  the  recon- 
stitution  of  old  political  alliances  and  to  the  emergence  of  new 
political  groupings. 

That  it  took  the  PNDC  more  than  ten  years  to  lift  the  ban 
imposed  on  political  parties  at  the  inception  of  PNDC  rule  not 
only  demonstrated  the  PNDC's  control  over  the  pace  and 
direction  of  political  change  but  also  confirmed  the  shallow- 
ness of  the  political  soil  in  which  the  party  system  was  rooted. 
Party  activity  had  been  banned  under  all  of  the  military  govern- 
ments that  had  dominated  nearly  twenty  out  of  the  thirty-five 


201 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

years  of  Ghana's  postcolonial  existence.  Even  during  periods  of 
civilian  administration,  party  organization  had  been  largely 
urban  centered  and  rudimentary.  It  had  depended  far  more 
on  personal  alliances  and  on  ethnic  and  local  ties,  as  well  as  on 
patron-client  relationships,  than  on  nationally  institutionalized 
structures.  Party  politics  had  tended  to  generate  corruption 
and  factionalism.  The  party  system,  therefore,  never  had  any 
real  hold  on  the  consciousness  of  the  average  Ghanaian,  espe- 
cially the  rural  Ghanaian. 

All  the  same,  three  major  electoral  political  traditions  have 
emerged  in  Ghana  since  the  1950s,  namely,  the  Nkrumahist 
tradition,  the  Danquah-Busiaist  tradition,  and  the  more  recent 
Rawlingsist  tradition.  These  traditions  are  identified  with  their 
founders — each  a  commanding  political  figure — and  are  not 
necessarily  mutually  exclusive.  In  political  terms,  the  Nkruma- 
hists  are  generally  considered  "leftist"  and  "progressive,"  the 
Danquah-Busiaists  more  "rightist"  and  more  "conservative," 
and  the  Rawlingsists  "populist"  and  "progressive."  In  practice, 
however,  the  traditions  are  less  distinguishable  by  ideological 
orientation  than  by  dominant  personalities  and  ethnic  origins. 

Against  this  background,  the  opposition  call  for  multiparty 
democracy  had  to  overcome  great  odds,  not  least  of  which  was 
the  intense  prejudice  of  the  chairman  of  the  PNDC  against 
political  parties.  Rawlings  strongly  believed  that  party  politics 
had  hitherto  produced  two  forms  of  abuse  of  power — the  "cor- 
rupt dictatorship"  of  the  Kofi  Abrefa  Busia  regime  (1969-72) 
and  the  "arrogant  dictatorship"  of  the  Nkrumah  (1957-66) 
and  Limann  (1979-81)  governments.  Nonpartisan,  honest, 
and  accountable  government  would  provide  an  effective  anti- 
dote to  these  abuses,  he  argued.  Indeed,  Rawlings  appeared  to 
have  an  almost  fanatical  belief  that  corruption  was  at  the  root 
of  nearly  all  of  Ghana's  problems  and  that,  if  only  it  could  be 
stamped  out,  the  country  would  return  to  its  former  prosperity. 

In  reaction  to  Rawlings's  position,  opposition  groups,  such  as 
the  London-based  Ghana  Democratic  Movement  and  the  Cam- 
paign for  Democracy  in  Ghana,  and  individuals  within  and  out- 
side Ghana  committed  to  multiparty  democracy,  grew 
increasingly  desperate  as  they  focused  on  the  single  aim  of 
overthrowing  the  PNDC  regime.  Between  1983  and  1986,  at 
least  a  dozen  coup  plots  were  uncovered  by  an  efficient  and 
much-feared  state  security  system  (see  The  1981  Coup  and  the 
Second  Rawlings  Government,  ch.  5).  At  the  same  time,  vigor- 
ous debates  occurred  within  the  PNDC,  radical  organizations, 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


and  trade  unions  over  the  direction  of  economic  policy,  the 
content  and  form  of  true  democracy,  and  the  desirability  of 
accepting  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary) 
support  for  Ghana's  Economic  Recovery  Program  (ERP)  (see 
The  Economic  Recovery  Program,  ch.  3). 

Urban  workers  and  students  especially  exhibited  growing 
frustration  at  their  inability  to  influence  policy  or  to  express 
dissent  through  readily  available  channels.  Many  urban  work- 
ers felt  the  CDRs  did  not  effectively  represent  the  opinions  of 
workers  in  the  way  that  the  PDCs  and  the  WDCs  had  done 
before  their  reorganization.  In  general,  public  criticism  of  gov- 
ernment policy  was  discouraged.  In  the  face  of  repeated  coup 
plots  and  destabilization  attempts,  which  lasted  throughout  the 
PNDC  period,  the  regime  was  eager  to  retain  tight  control  of 
the  political  situation,  and  an  independent  press  had  difficulty 
surviving.  All  the  same,  the  PNDC  was  clearly  aware  of  the 
urgent  need  for  the  government  to  provide  genuine  demo- 
cratic channels  and  institutions  to  enable  workers,  students, 
professional  bodies,  and  other  interest  groups  to  express  dis- 
sent and  to  provide  constructive  criticism  of  government  pol- 
icy. There  was,  therefore,  a  concerted  effort  to  transform  the 
CDRs  and  other  revolutionary  organs  into  real  instruments  of 
grass-roots  democracy.  The  implementation  of  the  government 
decentralization  program  and  the  establishment  of  district 
assemblies  were  likewise  aimed  at  furthering  the  process  of 
genuine  popular  democratization. 

Interest  Groups  and  National  Politics 

Among  the  politically  active  and  influential  organizations 
and  interest  groups  are  the  Trade  Union  Congress  (TUC),  the 
Ghana  Bar  Association  (GBA),  the  Christian  Council  of  Ghana 
(CCG),  the  Catholic  Bishops  Conference  (CBC),  the  Ghana 
Journalists  Association,  the  National  Union  of  Ghanaian  Stu- 
dents (NUGS),  the  regional  houses  of  chiefs,  and  the  National 
House  of  Chiefs.  Because  political  parties  in  Ghana  have  been 
weak  and  the  national  political  system  itself  has  been  unstable, 
the  enduring  nature  of  some  of  these  firmly  established  inter- 
est groups  has  often  substituted  for  political  stability.  As  a  result 
of  their  stabilizing  and  quasi-political  institutional  role,  interest 
groups  such  as  the  CBC,  the  CCG,  and  the  GBA  have  exerted 
enormous  influence  on  national  policy.  The  relationship 
between  incumbent  governments  and  these  powerful  interest 
groups  has  never  been  easy,  however;  the  government  has 


203 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

invariably  tried  to  co-opt  or  to  control,  if  not  to  intimidate,  the 
leadership  of  these  urban-based  organizations. 

Of  all  politically  active  organizations,  the  TUC  has  always 
had  the  largest  following,  with  a  total  membership  in  the  early 
1990s  of  more  than  500,000.  This  figure  includes  workers  and 
salaried  employees  in  the  public  and  the  private  sectors  who 
are  members  of  the  seventeen  unions  that  are  affiliated  with 
the  TUC.  Since  independence,  successive  governments  have 
made  repeated  attempts  to  control  it.  Rawlings  enjoyed  the 
support  of  the  TUC  during  the  first  two  years  of  PNDC  rule, 
but  the  stringent  austerity  measures  introduced  in  the  ERP  in 
1983  led  to  discontent  among  union  members  adversely 
affected  by  devaluation,  wage  restraints,  and  lay-offs.  By  1985 
the  original  support  enjoyed  by  the  PNDC  in  labor  circles  had 
all  but  disappeared.  The  PNDC  worked  hard  to  regain  union 
support,  however,  and  the  National  Democratic  Congress  gov- 
ernment of  the  Fourth  Republic  has  continued  to  woo  the 
unions  through  tripartite  consultations  involving  itself,  the 
TUC,  and  employers. 

From  the  inception  to  the  end  of  PNDC  rule  in  1992,  the 
CCG,  the  CBC,  the  GBA,  NUGS,  and  the  National  House  of 
Chiefs  played  prominent  roles  in  the  transition  to  democracy. 
These  organizations  took  the  provisional  nature  of  the  PNDC 
regime  quite  literally,  calling  for  a  quick  return  to  democratic 
national  government.  Although  NUGS  and  the  GBA  consis- 
tently demanded  a  return  to  multiparty  democracy,  the  CCG, 
the  CBC,  and  the  national  and  regional  houses  of  chiefs 
favored  a  nonpartisan  national  government.  While  the  NUGS 
and  GBA  leadership  used  methods  that  frequently  provoked 
confrontation  with  the  PNDC,  the  CBC  and  the  national  and 
regional  houses  of  chiefs  preferred  a  more  conciliatory 
method  of  political  change,  emphasizing  national  unity. 

The  CCG,  the  CBC,  and  the  national  and  regional  houses  of 
chiefs  function  openly  as  independent  national  lobbies  to  pro- 
mote common  rather  than  special  interests.  They  insist  on 
negotiation  and  mediation  in  the  management  of  national  dis- 
putes, and  they  advocate  policy  alternatives  that  stress  the  long- 
term  needs  of  society.  In  the  past,  they  have  taken  bold  initia- 
tives to  attain  the  abrogation  of  state  measures  and  legislation 
that  violate  human  rights  or  that  threaten  law  and  order.  All 
three  bodies  share  a  commitment  to  democracy,  the  rule  of 
law,  and  the  creation  of  political  institutions  that  reflect  Ghana- 
ian cultural  traditions. 


204 


Government  and  Politics 


The  GBA,  like  the  other  professional  associations  in  Ghana, 
is  concerned  with  maintaining  the  dignity  of  the  legal  profes- 
sion through  a  code  of  professional  ethics  and  with  promoting 
further  learning  and  research  in  the  profession.  The  main 
objectives  of  the  GBA  according  to  its  constitution  include  the 
defense  of  freedom  and  justice,  the  maintenance  of  judicial 
independence,  and  the  protection  of  human  rights  and  funda- 
mental freedoms  as  defined  under  the  United  Nations  Univer- 
sal Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  Fundamental  Freedoms. 
These  objectives,  by  definition,  have  inevitably  pitted  the  GBA 
against  both  military  regimes  and  one-party  governments, 
which  on  their  part  have  considered  the  GBA  at  best  a  neces- 
sary evil. 

NUGS  and  its  national  executive,  representing  the  more 
than  8,000  students  of  Ghana's  three  universities  in  Accra- 
Legon,  Kumasi,  and  Cape  Coast,  are  among  the  most  vocal  and 
articulate  pressure  groups  in  Ghana.  By  reason  of  their  higher 
education  in  a  largely  illiterate  society,  students  have  often 
been  in  a  position  to  agitate  for  far-reaching  political,  eco- 
nomic, and  social  change.  Indeed,  students  have  been  in  the 
forefront  of  political  activism  in  Ghana  since  independence. 
NUGS  was  most  vocal  in  its  support  of  Rawlings  and  the  PNDC 
in  1982,  but  this  changed  as  the  PNDC  adopted  policies  that 
NUGS  considered  to  be  against  the  welfare  of  students  in  par- 
ticular and  of  Ghanaians  in  general. 

The  CCG,  another  vocal  and  influential  interest  group,  was 
founded  in  1929.  The  CCG's  principal  function  is  advisory;  it 
acts  through  consultation  among  its  member  churches.  The 
CCG  operates  through  several  committees,  including  educa- 
tion, social  action  (national  affairs),  and  literacy  campaigns. 
The  CCG  is  a  member  of  the  World  Council  of  Churches  and 
other  ecumenical  bodies,  and  it  is  a  strong  advocate  of  human 
rights. 

The  CBC,  the  highest  local  unifying  authority  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  in  Ghana,  dates  to  1950,  although  the  church 
itself  has  been  in  Ghana  since  the  fifteenth  century.  The  CBC 
has  established  a  Joint  Social  Action  Committee  for  coopera- 
tion between  it  and  the  CCG. 

The  National  House  of  Chiefs  and  the  ten  regional  houses  of 
chiefs  represent  more  than  32,000  recognized  traditional  rul- 
ers who  exercise  considerable  influence  throughout  Ghana, 
especially  in  the  countryside.  As  trustees  of  communal  lands 
and  natural  resources,  chiefs  are  often  the  pivot  around  which 


205 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

local  socio-economic  development  revolves.  The  1992  constitu- 
tion, like  all  previous  constitutions,  guarantees  the  institution 
of  chieftaincy  together  with  its  traditional  councils  as  estab- 
lished by  customary  law  and  usage.  To  preserve  their  role  as 
symbols  of  national  unity,  however,  chiefs  are  forbidden  from 
active  participation  in  party  politics. 

District  Assembly  Elections 

The  main  political  preoccupations  of  the  PNDC  and  the 
Ghanaian  public  in  1988  were  the  implementation  of  the  gov- 
ernment's decentralization  program  and  the  elections  to  the 
new  District  Assemblies  (DAs).  In  a  speech  commemorating  his 
fifth  year  in  power  in  January  1987,  Rawlings  had  announced 
proposals  for  the  decentralization  of  government.  These  had 
included  promises  of  elections  for  DAs  and  a  national  debate 
on  the  ERR  The  debate  on  the  ERP  never  materialized,  but 
debates  on  the  elections  and  the  DAs  did. 

Among  the  radical  changes  introduced  in  local  government 
elections  were  provisions  that  no  cash  deposits  were  required 
of  candidates  for  district-level  elections  and  that  illiteracy  in 
English  was  no  longer  a  disqualification.  To  accommodate  non- 
English  speakers  in  the  DAs  and  to  make  assembly  debates 
accessible  to  the  majority  of  constituents,  local  languages  could 
be  used  in  the  DAs.  The  elections  were  to  be  nonpartisan:  the 
ban  on  political  parties  was  not  lifted.  Implementation  of  the 
decentralization  program  and  preparation  for  the  district  elec- 
tions did  not  completely  silence  the  opposition,  nor  did  it 
remove  the  sources  of  public  discontent  and  disaffection 
toward  the  government  within  some  sections  of  the  Ghanaian 
population. 

In  1988  there  was  no  indication  of  what  political  structures 
and  institutions  would  be  established  above  the  DAs  at  regional 
and  national  levels.  Nor  was  it  clear  whether  creation  of  the 
DAs  was  intended  to  broaden  the  civilian  support  base  of  the 
PNDC,  thereby  legitimizing  and  perpetuating  PNDC  rule 
indefinitely.  Some  felt  that  the  word  "provisional"  in  the 
regime's  name  sounded  a  bit  hollow  after  five  years  in  power. 
Indeed,  many  read  the  proposed  district  elections  as  a  strategy 
similar  to  the  union  government  proposal  in  1978  that  had  not 
been  implemented  because  of  its  widespread  unpopularity  (see 
The  National  Redemption  Council  Years,  1972-79,  ch.  1). 

In  February  1988,  Adu  Boahen,  a  retired  history  professor 
and  later  a  presidential  candidate  and  Rawlings's  main  chal- 


206 


Sessional  Meeting  of  a  House  of  Chiefs 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


lenger,  delivered  three  lectures  in  which  he  severely  criticized 
military  rule  in  Ghana  and  the  PNDC  regime  in  particular  as 
the  causes  of  political  instability.  He  affirmed  that  the  AFRC 
led  by  Rawlings  in  1979  was  completely  unnecessary.  He 
attacked  the  alleged  domination  of  the  PNDC  regime  and  of 
major  national  institutions  by  the  Ewe  and  called  for  an  interim 
coalition  government  within  a  year  and  for  a  return  to  multi- 
party democracy  by  1992.  The  state-owned  national  media 
attacked  Boahen's  criticism  of  the  PNDC  but  did  not  report  the 
original  text  of  the  lectures. 

For  the  DA  elections,  the  country  was  divided  into  three 
zones  by  region.  Zone  one  consisted  of  Western  Region,  Cen- 
tral Region,  Ashanti  Region,  and  Eastern  Region;  zone  two,  of 
Upper  East  Region,  Upper  West  Region,  and  Northern  Region; 
and  zone  three,  of  Greater  Accra  Region,  Volta  Region,  and 


207 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Brong-Ahafo  Region  (see  fig.  1).  The  first  round  of  the  nonpar- 
tisan elections  took  place  on  December  6,  1988,  in  zone  one  of 
the  country,  with  polling  in  zones  two  and  three  following  on 
January  31  and  February  28,  1989,  respectively  (see  table  12, 
Appendix).  District  election  committees  disqualified  several 
candidates  in  a  number  of  districts  for  various  offenses,  includ- 
ing nonpayment  of  taxes,  refusal  to  participate  in  communal 
labor,  and  shirking  other  civic  responsibilities.  With  an  esti- 
mated average  turnout  rate  of  about  60  percent  of  registered 
voters  (some  rural  districts  had  a  90  percent  turnout),  the 
highest  for  any  election  in  two  decades,  most  Ghanaians  saw 
this  first  step  toward  the  establishment  of  national  democratic 
institutions  as  quite  successful.  The  opposition,  although  criti- 
cal of  the  composition  of  the  DAs,  accepted  the  assemblies  in 
principle. 

The  DAs  gave  new  momentum  to  the  exercise  of  grass-roots 
democracy  as  well  as  to  local  determination  of  and  implemen- 
tation of  development  projects.  The  principle  of  nonpartisan, 
decentralized  political  structure  proved  popular.  By-laws  passed 
by  the  DAs  had  to  be  deposited  with  the  PNDC  secretariat 
immediately  after  their  passage.  If  within  twenty-one  days  the 
PNDC  raised  no  objection  to  them,  they  automatically  became 
law. 

Some  elected  representatives,  a  majority  of  whom  were  farm- 
ers and  school  teachers,  resented  the  fact  that  PNDC  appoin- 
tees, mostly  chiefs  and  professionals  who  constituted  one-third 
of  the  memberships  of  the  DAs,  often  sought  to  dominate  the 
proceedings.  Also,  most  of  the  districts  and  their  people  were 
poor,  and  the  DAs'  quick  resort  to  taxes  and  numerous  levies  to 
raise  much-needed  revenue  proved  burdensome  and  unpopu- 
lar. In  some  parts  of  the  country,  for  example  Cape  Coast  and 
Accra,  there  were  protests  and  tax  revolts.  In  August  1989, 
regional  coordinating  councils  were  formed  in  all  ten  regions 
to  streamline  the  work  of  the  DAs  and  to  coordinate  district 
policies  and  projects.  The  PNDC  made  it  clear  that  DAs  had  no 
power  to  collect  or  to  levy  income  taxes. 

Charting  the  Political  Transition 

The  inauguration  of  the  DAs  removed  some  of  the  political 
pressures  on  the  PNDC,  but  political  ferment  continued  in 
some  sectors  of  the  population.  So,  too,  did  the  arrest  and 
detention  of  leading  opponents  of  the  PNDC  regime.  The 
most  publicized  of  the  latter  was  the  arrest  and  detention  in 


208 


Government  and  Politics 


September  1989  of  Major  Courage  Quarshigah,  ex-comman- 
dant of  the  Ghana  Military  Academy  and  a  former  close  ally  of 
Rawlings.  He  was  accused  of  leading  an  attempted  coup  and  of 
an  alleged  plot  to  assassinate  Rawlings  (see  The  1981  Coup  and 
the  Second  Rawlings  Government,  ch.  5). 

A  new  phase  of  the  political  struggle  of  the  opposition 
against  the  PNDC  opened  in  January  1990  when  the  GBA 
called  on  the  PNDC  to  initiate  immediately  a  referendum  that 
would  permit  the  Ghanaian  people  to  determine  openly  the 
form  of  constitutional  government  they  wished  for  themselves. 
In  his  end-of-year  message  in  1989,  Rawlings  had  promised  that 
the  government  would  strengthen  participatory  democracy  at 
the  grass-roots  level.  He  also  proposed  that  the  NCD  initiate 
nationwide  consultations  with  various  groups  to  determine  the 
country's  economic  and  political  future.  These  consultations 
consisted  of  a  series  of  seminars,  in  all  ten  regional  capitals, 
that  ran  from  July  5  to  November  9,  1990,  at  which  the  public 
was  invited  to  express  its  views. 

Meanwhile,  the  CBC  issued  a  communique  calling  for  a 
national  debate  on  Ghana's  political  future.  On  July  24,  the 
Kwame  Nkrumah  Revolutionary  Guards  (KNRG)  issued  a  state- 
ment calling  for  a  return  to  multiparty  democracy,  for  the  lift- 
ing of  the  ban  on  political  parties,  and  for  the  creation  of  a 
constituent  assembly  to  draft  a  new  constitution  to  be  approved 
by  a  national  referendum.  On  August  1,  the  KNRG,  other 
opposition  organizations,  and  some  prominent  Ghanaians 
formed  the  Movement  for  Freedom  and  Justice  (MFJ).  Adu 
Boahen  was  named  interim  chairman.  The  MFJ  identified  the 
restoration  of  multiparty  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  in 
Ghana  as  its  main  objectives.  Its  leaders  immediately  com- 
plained about  harassment  by  the  security  agencies  and  about 
denial  of  permits  to  hold  public  rallies  by  the  police. 

Debate  about  the  country's  political  future  dominated  1991. 
In  his  broadcast  to  the  nation  on  New  Year's  Day,  Rawlings  out- 
lined steps  toward  the  next  stages  in  the  country's  political  evo- 
lution, which  included  issuance  of  an  NCD  report  on  what 
form  of  democracy  Ghanaians  preferred.  The  PNDC  made  it 
clear  that  it  did  not  favor  multiparty  democracy,  although  its 
spokesmen  indicated  that  the  PNDC  had  an  open  mind  on  the 
matter.  The  MFJ  immediately  called  for  a  constituent  assembly, 
where  all  parties,  including  the  PNDC,  would  submit  proposals 
for  Ghana's  constitutional  future.  Meanwhile,  the  PNDC 
unveiled  a  statue  of  J.B.  Danquah,  Nkrumah's  political  oppo- 


209 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

nent,  after  an  announcement  in  1990  that  it  would  build  a 
statue  and  a  memorial  park  for  Nkrumah.  This  was  a  clear 
attempt  to  placate  and  to  woo  both  the  Ghanaian  "political 
right"  and  Nkrumahists  of  the  "left"  simultaneously. 

In  late  March,  the  NCD  presented  its  findings  on  "true 
democracy"  to  the  PNDC.  After  receiving  the  NCD  report,  the 
PNDC  announced  in  May  that  it  accepted  the  principle  of  a 
multiparty  system.  In  its  response  to  the  NCD  report,  the 
PNDC  pledged  to  set  up  a  committee  of  constitutional  experts 
that  would  formulate  the  draft  constitutional  proposals  to  be 
placed  before  a  national  consultative  assembly.  The  committee 
came  into  being  in  May.  A  258-member  National  Consultative 
Assembly  was  elected  in  June  with  the  task  of  preparing  a  draft 
constitution  for  submission  to  the  PNDC  not  later  than  Decem- 
ber 31,  1991.  The  PNDC  was  then  to  submit  the  draft  constitu- 
tion to  a  national  referendum,  after  which,  if  approved,  it  was 
to  enter  into  force  on  a  date  set  by  the  PNDC. 

In  August  Rawlings  announced  that  presidential  and  parlia- 
mentary elections  would  be  held  before  the  end  of  1992  and 
that  international  observers  would  be  allowed.  By  the  end  of 
1991,  however,  the  PNDC  had  not  announced  when  the  ban  on 
political  parties  would  be  lifted,  although  many  individuals  and 
organizations,  such  as  the  Kwame  Nkrumah  Welfare  Society, 
the  Friends  of  Busia  and  Danquah,  and  the  Eagle  Club,  had 
formed  or  reemerged  and  were  active  as  parties  in  all  but 
name.  Despite  persistent  acrimony  surrounding  the  manage- 
ment and  control  of  the  transition  process,  the  PNDC 
appointed  an  independent  Interim  National  Electoral  Com- 
mission in  February  1992.  The  commission  was  responsible  for 
the  register  of  voters,  the  conduct  of  fair  elections,  and  the 
review  of  boundaries  of  administrative  and  electoral  areas. 

In  a  nationwide  radio  and  television  broadcast  on  March  5 
marking  the  thirty-fifth  anniversary  of  Ghana's  independence, 
Rawlings  officially  announced  the  following  timetable  for  the 
return  to  constitutional  government:  presentation  of  the  draft 
constitution  to  the  PNDC  by  the  end  of  March  1992;  a  referen- 
dum on  the  draft  constitution  on  April  28,  1992;  lifting  of  the 
ban  on  political  parties  on  May  18,  1992;  presidential  elections 
on  November  3,  1992;  parliamentary  elections  on  December  8, 
1992;  and  the  inauguration  of  the  Fourth  Republic  on  January 
7,  1993. 

The  PNDC  saw  the  constitutional  referendum  as  an  essential 
exercise  that  would  educate  ordinary  Ghanaians  about  the 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


draft  constitution  and  that  would  create  a  national  consensus. 
The  PNDC  opposition  urged  its  supporters  and  all  Ghanaians 
to  support  the  draft  constitution  by  voting  for  it.  In  the  April 
1992  national  referendum,  the  draft  constitution  was  over- 
whelmingly approved  by  about  92  percent  of  voters.  Although 
the  turnout  was  lower  than  expected  (43.7  percent  of  regis- 
tered voters),  it  was  higher  than  that  of  the  1978  referendum 
(40.3  percent)  and  that  of  the  1979  parliamentary  elections 
(35.2  percent).  The  new  constitution  provided  that  a  referen- 
dum should  have  a  turnout  of  at  least  35  percent,  with  at  least 
70  percent  in  favor,  in  order  to  be  valid. 

After  the  lifting  of  the  ban  on  party  politics  in  May,  several 
rival  splinter  groups  or  offshoots  of  earlier  organizations,  nota- 
bly the  so-called  Nkrumahists  and  Danquah-Busiaists,  as  well  as 
new  groups,  lost  no  time  in  declaring  their  intention  to  register 
as  political  parties  and  to  campaign  for  public  support.  In  June 
the  Washington-based  International  Foundation  for  Electoral 
Systems,  which  had  sent  a  team  to  Ghana  to  observe  the  April 
referendum,  issued  a  report  recommending  re-registration  of 
voters  as  quickly  as  possible  if  Ghana  were  to  have  truly  compet- 
itive presidential  and  parliamentary  elections.  The  foundation 
claimed  that  the  total  number  of  registered  voters — 8.4  mil- 
lion— was  improbable.  Given  an  estimated  national  population 
of  about  16  million — of  whom  about  half  were  under  age  fif- 
teen— the  Foundation  concluded  that  with  a  voting  age  of 
eighteen,  the  total  registrable  population  ought  not  to  be 
above  7.75  million. 

This  discovery  fueled  a  persistent  opposition  demand  to 
reopen  the  voters  register,  but  constraints  of  time,  technology, 
and  money  made  such  an  effort  impossible.  Instead,  the 
Interim  National  Electoral  Commission  embarked  on  a  "voters 
register  cleansing."  Only  about  180,000  names  were  removed 
from  the  referendum  register,  however,  leaving  the  total  regis- 
tered voters  at  8.23  million,  a  statistical  impossibility,  the  oppo- 
sition insisted.  Estimates  put  the  actual  number  of  registered 
voters  at  about  6.2  million,  making  the  3.69  million  turn-out  at 
the  referendum  an  adjusted  59.5  percent. 

Presidential  Elections 

Despite  protests  and  demands  for  a  new  voters  register, 
which  had  not  been  met  when  nominations  for  presidential 
candidates  for  the  November  3  elections  closed  on  September 
29,  1992,  five  presidential  candidates  representing  five  political 


211 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

parties  filed  their  nomination  papers.  Apart  from  Rawlings, 
who  after  months  of  uncertainty  decided  to  run  as  a  candidate 
for  the  National  Democratic  Congress  (NDC),  the  other  four 
presidential  candidates  were  Adu  Boahen  of  the  New  Patriotic 
Party  (NPP);  Hilla  Limann,  former  president  of  Ghana,  of  the 
People's  National  Convention  (PNC);  Kwabena  Darko,  a  multi- 
millionaire businessman,  of  the  National  Independence  Party 
(NIP);  and  Lieutenant  General  (retired)  Emmanuel  Erskine, 
of  the  People's  Heritage  Party  (PHP).  The  PNC,  the  NIP,  and 
the  PHP  were  all  Nkrumahists.  A  much-discussed  alliance 
among  these  fractious  and  disorganized  parties  did  not  materi- 
alize, even  though  just  before  the  elections  there  was  talk  of  a 
possible  grand  anti-Rawlings  coalition. 

The  real  issue  of  the  1992  presidential  election  was  whether 
Rawlings  would  succeed  in  holding  on  to  power  as  a  democrat- 
ically elected  head  of  state  after  nearly  eleven  years  as  an 
unelected  one.  The  slogan  of  the  NDC  was  "continuity,"  mean- 
ing the  continuity  of  PNDC  policies.  In  fact,  to  many  Ghana- 
ians, the  NDC  party  was  the  same  as  the  PNDC  without  the 
initial  "P."  The  opposition,  by  contrast,  could  not  articulate  a 
clear,  consistent,  and  convincing  alternative  program. 

The  most  serious  challenge  to  Rawlings  came  from  Boahen, 
who  had  significant  support  among  the  urban  middle  classes 
and  among  his  ethnic  kin  in  Ashanti  Region.  The  inevitable 
split  of  the  Nkrumahist  vote  weakened  the  chances  of  each  of 
the  three  Nkrumahist  candidates.  Darko  was  hardly  known  out- 
side Kumasi  and  Accra,  and  Limann  was  popularly  seen  as  a 
weak  and  dull  leader.  Erskine  was  hardly  a  household  word, 
even  in  his  home  area  of  Central  Region.  The  presidential  elec- 
tion was  not  fought  over  ideology  or  clearly  presented  political 
programs,  but  rather  over  personalities,  over  Rawlings' s  human 
rights  record,  and  over  allegations  that  he  had  been  in  power 
for  too  long. 

After  elections  in  200  constituencies  (sixty  new  electoral  con- 
stituencies had  been  added  to  the  old  140)  on  November  3, 
1992,  Rawlings  won  a  convincing  majority  over  all  his  oppo- 
nents combined.  The  margin  of  victory  surprised  not  only  Raw- 
lings, but  his  political  rivals  as  well.  The  hoped-for  run-off 
election  did  not  materialize  because  Rawlings  had  gained  an 
outright  majority  of  almost  60  percent  of  the  nearly  4  million 
votes  cast. 

Rawlings  won  resoundingly  in  regions  where  his  opponents, 
especially  Boahen,  had  been  expected  to  carry  the  day.  Boahen 


212 


ERSKINE  FOR  PRESIDE* 


Campaign  billboards  erected  for  the  national  elections  of  late  1992.  Such 
billboards  appeared  throughout  Ghana,  an  indication  of  the 

competitive  nature  of  the  elections. 

Courtesy  James  Sanders 


213 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


received  30.4  percent  of  the  total  votes;  Limann,  6.7  percent; 
Darko,  2.8  percent;  Erskine,  1.7  percent;  and  Rawlings,  58.3 
percent.  Rawlings  even  won  62  percent  of  the  vote  in  Brong- 
Ahafo  Region,  which  was  considered  a  stronghold  of  the  Dan- 
quah-Busiaist  political  tradition.  He  also  won  in  Greater  Accra 
Region,  where  NUGS,  the  GBA,  the  TUC,  and  the  middle-class 
opposition  had  been  unsparing  in  their  anti-PNDC  attacks. 
Boahen  received  a  majority  vote  in  his  NPP  heartland,  Ashanti 
Region,  and  in  Eastern  Region  where  he  was  born. 

A  public  opinion  poll  conducted  in  late  1990  and  early  1991 
in  Accra,  Kumasi,  and  Sekondi-Takoradi  indicated  some  of  the 
reasons  for  Rawlings's  victory.  The  poll  suggested  that,  in  spite 
of  the  PNDC's  record  of  human  rights  abuses  and  the  negative 
impact  of  the  ERP,  the  PNDC  was  more  popular  in  urban  areas 
than  had  been  thought.  The  PNDC  was  perceived  as  having 
done  much  to  rehabilitate  the  country's  infrastructure,  to 
instill  national  pride,  and  to  improve  the  efficiency  and  hon- 
esty of  government  spending.  Although  many  of  the  respon- 
dents felt  that  their  standard  of  living  had  worsened  since  the 
PNDC  came  to  power  and  since  the  implementation  of  the 
Structural  Adjustment  Program,  a  significant  number  also  indi- 
cated that  they  and  the  country  would  have  been  worse  off 
without  the  ERP.  Although  many  considered  the  PNDC  too 
authoritarian,  Rawlings  personally  continued  to  be  very  popu- 
lar and  received  much  of  the  credit  for  the  PNDC's  successes, 
while  the  PNDC  as  a  whole  was  blamed  for  its  more  negative 
characteristics. 

The  shock  of  the  NPP's  electoral  defeat  led  immediately  to 
disturbances  in  some  regional  capitals.  A  curfew  was  imposed 
in  Kumasi,  but  in  most  of  the  country,  the  results  were 
accepted  without  incident.  The  opposition  parties,  however, 
immediately  protested,  crying  fraud  as  well  as  rigging  of  the 
ballot  and  asking  the  interim  electoral  commission  not  to 
declare  a  winner  until  allegations  of  irregularities  had  been 
investigated.  On  November  10,  however,  the  commission  for- 
mally declared  Rawlings  the  winner. 

Meanwhile,  the  opposition  parties  had  announced  their 
intention  to  boycott  the  parliamentary  elections  rescheduled 
from  December  8  to  December  29,  following  an  appeal  to  the 
interim  electoral  commission.  Efforts  to  get  the  opposition  to 
reconsider  its  boycott  proved  unsuccessful,  even  after  the 
National  House  of  Chiefs  announced  in  late  November  that  it 
felt  the  presidential  election  had  been  fair  and  free.  Many 


214 


Government  and  Politics 


European  ambassadors  in  Accra  likewise  announced  that  they 
had  no  difficulty  recognizing  Rawlings's  victory.  International 
election  monitoring  teams  from  the  Organization  of  African 
Unity,  the  Commonwealth  of  Nations,  and  the  Carter  Center  in 
the  United  States  also  endorsed  the  results  of  the  presidential 
election,  although  with  reservations  in  some  cases. 

Parliamentary  Elections 

The  PNDC  indicated  that  it  intended  to  proceed  with  parlia- 
mentary elections  with  or  without  the  opposition  parties.  In  a 
gesture  to  its  opponents,  however,  the  PNDC  extended  the 
deadline  for  all  parties  to  register  independent  candidates,  but 
opposition  party  officials  threatened  to  deal  severely  with  any 
party  member  who  ran  as  an  independent  candidate.  Amid 
sporadic  political  violence — some  of  it  linked  to  the  opposi- 
tion, arrests  of  members  of  opposition  groups  by  state  security 
officers,  and  accusations  of  PNDC  intimidation  and  harass- 
ment by  the  four  opposition  parties  boycotting  the  elections — 
parliamentary  elections  were  held  on  December  29,  1992,  with- 
out the  participation  of  the  opposition  parties. 

Ironically,  in  boycotting  the  parliamentary  elections,  the 
opposition  offered  the  PNDC  the  continuity  it  had  been  vigor- 
ously campaigning  for  and  undermined  any  possibility  of  mul- 
tiparty parliamentary  democracy  in  the  first  term  of  the  Fourth 
Republic.  At  the  close  of  nominations  for  the  elections  on 
December  1,  the  NDC  was  unopposed  in  fifteen  of  the  200  con- 
stituencies. Only  five  candidates  from  the  four  main  opposition 
parties  had  registered.  According  to  the  Interim  National  Elec- 
toral Commission,  of  the  7.3  million  registered  voters,  more 
than  2  million  voted  on  election  day.  The  supporters  of  the 
four  opposition  parties  stayed  away,  as  did  many  NDC  support- 
ers, who  felt  that  an  NDC  landslide  victory  was  a  foregone  con- 
clusion. The  number  of  registered  voters  excluded  twenty- 
three  constituencies  where  the  candidates  were  elected  unop- 
posed, so  the  turnout  represented  29  percent  of  voters  in  177 
constituencies.  The  NDC  swept  the  board,  winning  189  of  the 
200  parliamentary  seats,  including  the  twenty-three  who  were 
elected  unopposed.  Two  other  parties  allied  with  the  NDC  in 
what  was  called  the  Progressive  Alliance — the  National  Conven- 
tion Party  and  the  Every  Ghanaian  Living  Everywhere  Party — 
won  eight  seats  and  one  seat,  respectively.  The  remaining  two 
seats  were  captured  by  two  independent  women  candidates, 


215 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

part  of  a  group  of  sixteen  women  elected  to  parliament,  the 
largest  number  ever  in  Ghana. 

In  the  presidential  election,  almost  4  million  out  of  8.3  mil- 
lion registered  voters  had  cast  their  votes  in  all  200  constituen- 
cies combined,  for  a  turnout  of  48  percent.  The  total  votes  cast 
in  the  parliamentary  elections  represented  51.5  percent  of  the 
votes  cast  in  the  presidential  election.  The  opposition  parties 
were  quick  to  ascribe  the  low  turnout  to  the  effectiveness  of 
their  boycott.  But  the  low  turnout  was  also  explained  in  part  by 
the  absence  of  real  issues  and  the  fact  that  many  people  chose 
to  stay  at  home  over  the  Christmas  holidays. 

Rawlings  and  the  NDC  won  the  elections  because  the  opposi- 
tion was  divided  for  the  most  part  and  failed  to  present  a  credi- 
ble alternative  to  the  PNDC.  The  programs  on  which  the 
opposition  campaigned  did  not  differ  substantially  from  those 
the  PNDC  had  been  implementing  since  1983.  The  opposition 
parties,  for  example,  advocated  a  free  enterprise  economy, 
political  decentralization,  rural  development,  and  liberal 
democracy — measures  already  on  the  PNDC  agenda. 

When  external  pressures  in  line  with  political  reforms  else- 
where on  the  continent  persuaded  Rawlings  to  return  to  multi- 
party democracy  at  the  national  level,  he  could  do  so  without 
taint  of  corruption.  Despite  widespread  human  rights  abuses  in 
the  early  years  of  the  revolution,  he  had  demonstrated  genuine 
concern  for  the  well-being  of  the  people  of  Ghana. 

Rawlings  also  won  because,  as  head  of  state  for  more  than  a 
decade,  his  name  had  become  a  household  word,  and  he  was 
able  to  exploit  the  advantages  of  incumbency.  He  had  won 
favor  with  a  wide  range  of  interest  groups,  influential  chiefs, 
and  local  leaders.  Rawlings  had  behind  him  a  well-established 
nationwide  network  of  CDRs,  the  31st  December  Women's 
Movement,  other  so-called  revolutionary  organs,  and  dedi- 
cated district  secretaries  and  chiefs  for  the  propagation  of  his 
message.  All  these  bodies  and  groups  had  been  active  long 
before  the  fractious  political  parties,  the  rival  leaders  of  which 
were  hardly  known  beyond  the  major  cities,  had  struggled  into 
existence.  Finally,  Rawlings  won  because  of  widespread  belief 
in  his  personal  sincerity  and  integrity. 

The  Fourth  Republic 

The  1992  Constitution 

The  1992  Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Ghana  that  came 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


into  effect  on  January  7,  1993,  provides  the  basic  charter  for 
the  country's  fourth  attempt  at  republican  democratic  govern- 
ment since  independence  in  1957.  It  declares  Ghana  to  be  a 
unitary  republic  with  sovereignty  residing  in  the  Ghanaian  peo- 
ple. Drawn  up  with  the  intent  of  preventing  future  coups,  dicta- 
torial government,  and  one-party  states,  it  is  designed  to  foster 
tolerance  and  the  concept  of  power-sharing.  The  document 
reflects  the  lessons  drawn  from  the  abrogated  constitutions  of 
1957,  1960,  1969,  and  1979,  and  it  incorporates  provisions  and 
institutions  drawn  from  British  and  United  States  constitu- 
tional models. 

The  1992  constitution,  as  the  supreme  law  of  the  land,  pro- 
vides for  the  sharing  of  powers  among  a  president,  a  parlia- 
ment, a  cabinet,  a  Council  of  State,  and  an  independent 
judiciary  (see  fig.  12).  Through  its  system  of  checks  and  bal- 
ances, it  avoids  bestowing  preponderant  power  on  any  specific 
branch  of  government.  Executive  authority  is  shared  by  the 
president,  the  twenty-five-member  Council  of  State,  and 
numerous  advisory  bodies,  including  the  National  Security 
Council.  The  president  is  head  of  state,  head  of  government, 
and  commander  in  chief  of  the  armed  forces  of  Ghana.  He  also 
appoints  the  vice  president. 

Legislative  functions  are  vested  in  the  National  Parliament, 
which  consists  of  a  unicameral  200-member  body  plus  the  pres- 
ident. To  become  law,  legislation  must  have  the  assent  of  the 
president,  who  has  a  qualified  veto  over  all  bills  except  those  to 
which  a  vote  of  urgency  is  attached.  Members  of  parliament  are 
popularly  elected  by  universal  adult  suffrage  for  terms  of  four 
years,  except  in  war  time,  when  terms  may  be  extended  for  not 
more  than  twelve  months  at  a  time  beyond  the  four  years. 

The  structure  and  the  power  of  the  judiciary  are  indepen- 
dent of  the  two  other  branches  of  government.  The  Supreme 
Court  has  broad  powers  of  judicial  review.  It  is  authorized  by 
the  constitution  to  rule  on  the  constitutionality  of  any  legisla- 
tive or  executive  action  at  the  request  of  any  aggrieved  citizen. 
The  hierarchy  of  courts  derives  largely  from  British  juridical 
forms.  The  hierarchy,  called  the  Superior  Court  of  Judicature, 
is  composed  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ghana,  the  Court  of 
Appeal  (Appellate  Court),  the  High  Court  of  Justice,  regional 
tribunals,  and  such  lower  courts  or  tribunals  as  parliament  may 
establish.  The  courts  have  jurisdiction  over  all  civil  and  crimi- 
nal matters. 


217 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


f 


co 
-i 

Q  < 

z  z 
<  z> 
i-5 

DC  DC 
ID  I- 

o_i 
o< 

xz 
o  o 
xo 

LU 
DC 


co  -! 

i-  < 

cc  z 

O  CO 

o  E 


Z>  t 
O  D 
DC  O 

o  EE 
—  o 


f—  > 

O  H 
CC  z 

o  s 

o 


8 

cc  I 
I—  I 


J  L 


O  0) 


LU  UJ 

So 


X 

o 
z 
< 
cc 

CD 

UJ 
> 


5 

LU 


UJ 

< 

LU 

H 

1- 

CO 

< 

u. 

1- 

O 

(/) 

CO 

H 

LL 

DC 

HI 

O 

111 

z 

RS 

1ST 

00 

< 

TE 

z 

CO 

z 

> 

DEPU 

36« 

<ujg 
z  co  ° 


CO 

y  Q 


—I  UJ 
O  DC 
Q.  O 

O  hi 

DC  CO 
I-  . 
UJ 


< 
Q. 


5§ 

Z  X 
<  UJ 

t  u- 

_l  UJ 

9:  o 


UJ  CL 

2  o 


CO 
UJ 

5  J 

DC  m  UJ 
H  ;  X 
CO   DC  UJ 

5  £  u- 

z  5  S 


1  g 

o  c 

<S  "0 
Z  <J> 

.11 


it 

«r  c 


,_co 

<UjUJ 

z5m 
S  =  S 

<DCS 
Z<0 

°-8 


^  o 


£  J3 

«  o 

OT  *- 

©  "D 

(0  © 

Sl 

c  £ 

—  (0 

E  <d 


218 


Government  and  Politics 


The  legal  system  is  based  on  the  constitution,  Ghanaian 
common  law,  statutory  enactments  of  parliament,  and  assimi- 
lated rules  of  customary  (traditional)  law.  The  1992  constitu- 
tion, like  previous  constitutions,  guarantees  the  institution  of 
chieftaincy  together  with  its  traditional  councils  as  established 
by  customary  law  and  usage.  The  National  House  of  Chiefs, 
without  executive  or  legislative  power,  advises  on  all  matters 
affecting  the  country's  chieftaincy  and  customary  law. 

The  1992  constitution  contains  the  most  explicit  and  com- 
prehensive provisions  in  Ghana's  postcolonial  constitutional 
history  regarding  the  system  of  local  government  as  a  decen- 
tralized form  of  national  administration.  These  provisions  were 
inspired  to  a  large  extent  by  current  law  and  by  the  practice  of 
local  government  under  the  PNDC.  Another  constitutional 
innovation  is  the  enshrinement  of  fundamental  human  rights 
and  freedoms  enforceable  by  the  courts.  These  rights  include 
cultural  rights,  women's  rights,  children's  rights,  the  rights  of 
disabled  persons,  and  the  rights  of  the  ill.  The  constitution  also 
guarantees  the  freedom  and  independence  of  the  media  and 
makes  any  form  of  censorship  unconstitutional.  In  addition, 
the  constitution  protects  each  Ghanaian's  right  to  be  repre- 
sented by  legitimately  elected  public  officials  by  providing  for 
partisan  national  elections  and  non-partisan  district  elections. 

Every  citizen  of  Ghana  eighteen  years  of  age  or  above  and  of 
sound  mind  has  the  right  to  vote.  The  right  to  form  political 
parties  is  guaranteed — an  especially  important  provision  in 
light  of  the  checkered  history  of  political  parties  in  postcolo- 
nial Ghana.  Political  parties  must  have  a  national  character  and 
membership  and  are  not  to  be  based  on  ethnic,  religious, 
regional,  or  other  sectional  divisions. 

Finally,  highly  controversial  provisions  of  the  constitution 
indemnify  members  and  appointees  of  the  PNDC  from  liability 
for  any  official  act  or  omission  during  the  eleven  years  of 
PNDC  rule.  These  provisions  seem  designed  to  prevent  the  real 
possibility  of  retribution,  should  a  new  government  hostile  to 
the  PNDC  replace  it,  and  to  foster  a  climate  of  peace  and  rec- 
onciliation. 

The  Judiciary 

Since  independence  in  1957,  the  court  system,  headed  by 
the  chief  justice,  has  demonstrated  extraordinary  indepen- 
dence and  resilience.  The  structure  and  jurisdiction  of  the 
courts  were  defined  by  the  Courts  Act  of  1971,  which  estab- 


219 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


lished  the  Supreme  Court  of  Ghana  (or  simply  the  Supreme 
Court),  the  Court  of  Appeal  (Appellate  Court)  with  two  divi- 
sions (ordinary  bench  and  full  bench),  and  the  High  Court  of 
Justice  (or  simply  the  High  Court),  a  court  with  both  appellate 
and  original  jurisdiction.  The  act  also  established  the  so-called 
inferior  and  traditional  courts,  which,  along  with  the  above 
courts,  constituted  the  judiciary  of  Ghana  according  to  the 
1960,  1979,  and  1992  constitutions. 

Until  mid-1993,  the  inferior  courts  in  descending  order  of 
importance  were  the  circuit  courts,  the  district  courts  (magis- 
trate courts)  grades  I  and  II,  and  juvenile  courts.  Such  courts 
existed  mostly  in  cities  and  large  urban  centers.  In  mid-1993, 
however,  Parliament  created  a  new  system  of  lower  courts,  con- 
sisting of  circuit  tribunals  and  community  tribunals  in  place  of 
the  former  circuit  courts  and  district  (magistrate)  courts  (see 
Developing  Democratic  Institutions,  this  ch.).  The  traditional 
courts  are  the  National  House  of  Chiefs,  the  regional  houses  of 
chiefs,  and  traditional  councils.  The  traditional  courts  are  con- 
stituted by  the  judicial  committees  of  the  various  houses  and 
councils.  All  courts,  both  superior  and  inferior,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  traditional  courts,  are  vested  with  jurisdiction  in 
civil  and  criminal  matters.  The  traditional  courts  have  exclusive 
power  to  adjudicate  any  case  or  matter  affecting  chieftaincy  as 
defined  by  the  Chieftaincy  Act  of  1971. 

Judicial  appointments  are  made  by  the  chief  justice  on  the 
advice  of  the  independent  Judicial  Council  of  Ghana  and  are 
subject  to  government  approval.  The  PNDC  Establishment 
Proclamation  abolished  the  Judicial  Council,  but  it  was  reestab- 
lished by  the  1992  constitution. 

Ghana  also  has  quasi-judicial  agencies  and  institutions. 
Examples  of  these  are  the  Reconciliation  Committee  of  the 
Department  of  Social  Welfare  and  Community  Development, 
provision  for  private  hearings  at  home,  and  the  use  of  various 
spiritual  agencies,  such  as  shrines,  churches,  Muslim  malams, 
and  specialists  in  the  manipulation  of  supernatural  powers  to 
whom  many  ordinary  people  resort. 

Noteworthy  for  both  the  colonial  and  the  postcolonial  peri- 
ods up  to  the  present  are  the  special  courts,  public  tribunals, 
politico-military  bodies  such  as  asafo  companies  (see  Glossary), 
and  vigilante  groups.  These  bodies  exercise  quasi-judicial, 
extra-judicial,  and  law  enforcement  functions  that  often  com- 
plement, and  in  some  cases  attempt  to  supplant,  the  functions 
of  the  regular  or  traditional  courts. 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


Of  these  special  courts,  the  former  public  tribunals  deserve 
special  mention.  Following  the  1981  revolution,  the  PNDC 
established  a  number  of  judicial  institutions  intended  to  check 
abuse  and  corruption  within  the  regular  courts.  These  special 
courts,  called  people's  courts  or  public  tribunals,  were  estab- 
lished in  August  1982  as  a  separate  system  for  administering 
justice  alongside  the  country's  regular  courts.  Their  purpose 
was  to  regulate  the  administration  of  justice  to  prevent  frivo- 
lous abuse  of  court  powers  and  to  obtain  the  truth  by  concen- 
trating on  the  facts  of  the  case  rather  than  on  questions  of  law. 

The  public  tribunals,  which  consisted  of  the  National  Public 
Tribunal,  regional  public  tribunals,  and  district  and  commu- 
nity public  tribunals,  were  an  attempt  to  "democratize"  the 
administration  of  justice  by  making  it  possible  for  the  public  at 
large  to  participate  actively  injudicial  decision  making.  They 
were  also  meant  to  correct  perceived  deficiencies  of  the  regu- 
lar courts,  to  enhance  the  general  accessibility  of  law  to  the 
common  people,  to  promote  social  justice,  and  to  provide  insti- 
tutional safeguards  that  would  secure  public  accountability. 
The  right  of  appeal  against  the  verdict  of  the  tribunals  was  not 
originally  provided  for  until  public  outcry  led  to  the  introduc- 
tion of  appeals  procedures  in  1984. 

Under  the  PNDC,  the  public  tribunals  exercised  only  crimi- 
nal jurisdiction.  They  dealt  with  three  categories  of  offenses 
against  the  state:  criminal  offenses  referred  to  them  by  the 
PNDC  government,  certain  offenses  under  the  country's  Crim- 
inal Code,  and  offenses  listed  in  the  Public  Tribunals  Law  of 
1984.  Proceedings  of  the  tribunals  were  generally  public  and 
swift;  sentences  were  frequently  harsh  and  included  death  by 
firing  squad.  Under  the  Public  Tribunals  Law  of  1984,  without 
prejudice  to  the  appellate  system  set  out  in  the  law  itself,  no 
court  or  other  tribunal  could  question  any  decision,  order,  or 
proceeding  of  a  public  tribunal. 

The  creation  of  public  tribunals  and  the  PNDC's  violent 
attack  on  lawyers  set  the  PNDC  on  a  collision  course  with  the 
Ghana  Bar  Association,  which  forbade  its  members  to  sit  on 
public  tribunals.  Many  of  the  rulings  of  the  public  tribunals 
were  cited  by  Amnesty  International  and  other  human  rights 
organizations  as  violations  of  such  rights  as  freedom  of  the 
press  and  habeas  corpus  (see  Human  Rights,  ch.  5).  Under  the 
Fourth  Republic,  the  public  tribunals  were  incorporated  into 
the  existing  court  hierarchy  (see  Developing  Democratic  Insti- 
tutions, this  ch.). 


221 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

The  Civil  Service 

The  civil  service,  an  integral  part  of  the  executive  branch  of 
government,  is  a  major  component  of  the  public  services  of 
Ghana,  which  come  under  supervision  of  the  Public  Services 
Commission.  Ghana's  civil  service  is  organized  along  British 
lines  and  constitutes  one  of  the  most  enduring  legacies  of  Brit- 
ish colonial  rule.  The  1992  constitution  provides  that  the  presi- 
dent, acting  in  accordance  with  the  advice  of  the  Public 
Services  Commission,  appoint  a  public  officer  to  head  the  civil 
service. 

The  civil  service  is  Ghana's  single  largest  employer,  and  its 
union  is  large  and  strong.  It  recruits  graduates  of  Ghana's  three 
universities  and  other  educational  institutions  through  a  sys- 
tem of  competitive  examinations.  Staffing  of  the  civil  and  the 
public  services  with  competent  personnel  is  the  principal  func- 
tion of  the  Public  Services  Commission,  which  serves  as  the 
government's  central  personnel  agency. 

The  Office  of  the  Head  of  Civil  Service  includes  a  large  team 
of  administrators,  executive  and  management  analysts,  and 
other  technical  experts.  These  officials  supervise  a  hierarchy  of 
graded  personnel  working  in  such  areas  as  health,  agriculture, 
transportation  and  communications,  and  local  government. 
Working  in  cooperation  with  them  are  other  state  bodies  such 
as  the  Chieftaincy  Secretariat,  Audit  Service,  Public  Services 
Commission,  and  Ghana  Cocoa  Board.  Since  the  launching  in 
1983  of  the  ERP,  an  austere  economic  program  that  the  NDC 
government  of  the  Fourth  Republic  continues  to  implement, 
the  civil  service  has  been  cut  drastically.  Despite  the  retrench- 
ment, civil  servants  have  not  engaged  in  organized  protests  or 
strikes,  although  they  have  threatened  to  do  so. 

The  Media 

The  Ghanaian  government  owns  the  only  two  major  daily 
newspapers,  the  Daily  Graphic  (known  as  the  People's  Daily 
Graphic  under  the  PNDC)  and  the  Ghanaian  Times,  with  1994 
daily  circulations  of  80,000-100,000  and  60,000-70,000,  respec- 
tively (circulation  varies  according  to  the  availability  of  news- 
print). The  other  daily,  The  Pioneer,  established  in  1930,  is  an 
independent  paper  with  a  circulation  of  about  30,000.  There 
are  also  a  number  of  weekly  newspapers  with  substantial  circu- 
lations, including  the  independents,  the  Christian  Messenger  and 
the  Standard,  and  the  state-owned  Sunday  Mirror  and  Weekly 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


Spectator,  the  latter  two  with  1994  circulations  of  85,000  and 
about  90,000,  respectively.  A  number  of  state-owned  and  inde- 
pendent periodicals  appear  in  English  and  in  African  lan- 
guages. 

The  1979  constitution,  which  the  PNDC  suspended  after  tak- 
ing power,  was  the  first  to  give  special  attention  to  Ghana's  mass 
media.  It  prohibited  press  licensing,  outlawed  censorship,  and 
guaranteed  freedom  of  expression  and  equal  access  to  the 
state-owned  media.  The  constitution  also  provided  for  the 
establishment  of  an  independent  press  commission,  the 
responsibilities  of  which  included  appointing  chief  executives 
and  boards  of  directors  for  the  state-owned  media,  preserving 
press  freedom,  and  maintaining  the  highest  professional  stan- 
dards. 

Under  the  PNDC,  self-censorship  was  the  rule  in  the  media. 
The  government  considered  it  the  responsibility  of  the  state- 
owned  media,  if  not  the  media  in  general,  to  project  a  good 
image  of  the  government  and  to  defend  government  programs 
and  policies.  To  ensure  compliance  with  this  policy,  the  PNDC 
hired  and  dismissed  editorial  staff  and  other  media  personnel 
of  government-owned  publications.  The  Ghana  Journalists 
Association,  which  acted  as  a  pressure  group  for  the  advance- 
ment of  the  professional  interests  of  journalists,  had  little  real 
influence.  The  Newspaper  Licensing  Law,  reintroduced  by  the 
PNDC  in  1983,  discouraged  or  inhibited  the  establishment  and 
the  freedom  of  private  media. 

The  state-owned  media  and  some  of  the  privately  owned 
local  newspapers  attacked  Ghanaian  journalists  who  worked  or 
wrote  for  the  foreign  press,  accusing  them  of  supporting  or  col- 
laborating with  organizations  opposed  to  the  PNDC.  With  the 
suspension  of  the  1979  constitution,  such  rights  as  freedom  of 
the  press,  freedom  of  assembly,  and  freedom  of  association 
were  not  guaranteed  but  were  merely  granted  at  the  discretion 
of  the  PNDC;  however,  numerous  professional  and  civic  organi- 
zations and  independent  newspapers  that  were  non-political 
were  allowed  to  exist  and  to  operate  freely. 

The  Committee  of  Experts  (Constitution)  Law  of  May  1991, 
which  established  the  Committee  of  Experts  to  draw  up  pro- 
posals for  a  draft  constitution,  required  that  the  proposals 
should  assure  the  freedom  and  the  independence  of  the 
media.  Accordingly,  the  1992  constitution  guarantees  funda- 
mental human  rights  and  civil  liberties,  including  the  freedom 
and  the  independence  of  the  media.  To  protect  the  indepen- 


223 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

dence  of  the  media,  the  National  Media  Commission  was  cre- 
ated in  1993  in  accordance  with  a  constitutional  provision.  The 
commission,  an  independent  body,  is  charged  with  ensuring 
that  all  types  of  media,  private  as  well  as  state-owned,  are  free  of 
government  control  and  interference.  Under  the  Fourth 
Republic,  the  press  has  begun  to  enjoy  a  significant  degree  of 
toleration  and  freedom  of  expression. 

Regional  and  Local  Government 

Before  the  changes  in  regional  and  local  administration 
under  the  PNDC,  Ghana  had  a  highly  centralized  government 
structure  in  which  local  people  and  communities  were  little 
involved  in  decision  making.  Local  government  services  were 
poor  and  depended  largely  on  funds  and  personnel  provided 
by  the  national  government  in  Accra.  Since  the  31st  December 
1981  Revolution,  however,  local  government  has  increasingly 
benefited  from  the  decentralization  of  government  ministries 
and  from  the  establishment  of  district  assemblies  in  1989. 

Ghana  is  divided  into  ten  administrative  regions,  each 
headed  by  a  regional  secretary.  The  ten  regions  and  their 
regional  capitals  are:  Greater  Accra  Region  (Accra),  Eastern 
Region  (Koforidua),  Central  Region  (Cape  Coast),  Western 
Region  (Sekondi-Takoradi) ,  Volta  Region  (Ho),  Ashanti 
Region  (Kumasi),  Brong-Ahafo  Region  (Sunyani),  Northern 
Region  (Tamale),  Upper  East  Region  (Bolgatanga) ,  and  Upper 
West  Region  (Wa)  (see  fig.  1).  After  taking  power,  the  PNDC 
launched  a  decentralization  plan  in  December  1982  designed 
to  restructure  government  machinery  to  promote  democracy 
and  greater  efficiency.  The  plan  proposed  a  three-tier  system  of 
local  government  to  replace  the  four-tier  system  established  in 
1978. 

This  early  decentralization  plan,  however,  was  not  imple- 
mented. Instead,  interim  management  committees  were  orga- 
nized to  manage  the  affairs  of  the  district  councils.  PNDC 
district  secretaries  were  appointed  chairmen  of  their  respective 
district  councils  and  were  responsible  for  day-to-day  administra- 
tion. Membership  of  the  interim  management  committees  nor- 
mally consisted  of  respected  citizens  of  the  district,  such  as 
chiefs,  headmasters,  retired  administrators,  and  teachers.  At 
the  lowest  levels,  local  government  remained  in  the  hands  of 
village,  town,  or  area  development  committees;  People's 
Defence  Committees;  and  chiefs  and  their  traditional  councils, 
who  still  wielded  considerable  influence  in  most  rural  areas. 


224 


Government  and  Politics 


On  July  1,  1987,  the  PNDC  launched  a  three-tier  system  of 
local  government.  The  principal  innovations  of  the  new  system 
included  creating  110  administrative  districts  to  replace  the 
sixty-five  districts  that  had  existed  before  and  changing  the 
name  District  Council  to  District  Assembly.  The  District  Assem- 
bly was  to  be  the  highest  political  and  administrative  authority 
in  each  district,  with  deliberative,  executive,  and  legislative 
powers;  it  was  responsible  for  creating  the  two  lower-level  tiers, 
town  or  area  councils  and  unit  committees,  within  its  jurisdic- 
tion (see  fig.  13). 

The  membership  of  the  District  Assembly  included  a  district 
secretary  appointed  by  the  PNDC.  Two-thirds  of  the  members 
were  directly  elected  by  universal  adult  suffrage  on  a  non-parti- 
san basis;  the  other  third  were  appointed  by  the  PNDC  from 
the  district  in  consultation  with  traditional  authorities  and  vari- 
ous associations.  Appointed  members  held  office  for  a  maxi- 
mum of  two  consecutive  terms,  that  is  six  years.  Elections  to  the 
District  Assembly  were  to  be  held  every  three  years  (the  1992 
constitution  provides  for  a  four-year  term  and  reduces  the 
number  of  appointed  members  from  one-third  to  no  more 
than  thirty  percent  of  the  total  membership).  The  District 
Assembly  was  made  responsible  for  the  overall  development  of 
the  district. 

A  1990  law  ensures  that  people  at  the  grass-roots  level  have 
the  opportunity  to  help  make  decisions  that  affect  them 
regardless  of  their  education  or  socio-economic  backgrounds, 
as  long  as  they  are  eighteen  years  or  older  and  are  customarily 
residents  of  the  district.  Finally,  in  each  of  the  ten  regions,  a 
Regional  Coordinating  Council  was  established  consisting  of 
the  regional  secretary,  the  deputies  of  the  regional  secretaries 
acting  as  ex-officio  members,  all  district  secretaries  in  the 
region,  and  all  presiding  members  of  the  district  assemblies  in 
the  region.  The  1992  constitution  added  at  least  two  chiefs  to 
the  membership  of  each  council.  The  functions  of  the  council 
include  the  formulation  and  the  coordination  of  programs 
through  consultation  with  district  assemblies  in  the  region. 
The  council  is  responsible  for  harmonizing  these  programs 
with  national  development  policies  and  priorities,  and  for 
monitoring,  implementing,  and  evaluating  programs  and 
projects  within  the  region. 

A  local  government  law  passed  in  1991  created  thirteen  sub- 
metropolitan  district  councils  and  fifty-eight  town  or  area  coun- 
cils under  three  metropolitan  assemblies;  108  zonal  councils 


225 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


226 


Government  and  Politics 


under  four  municipal  assemblies;  and  thirty-four  urban,  250 
town,  and  626  area  councils  under  103  district  assemblies.  (Dis- 
trict assemblies,  of  which  there  are  110,  are  designated  metro- 
politan and  municipal  assemblies  in  metropolitan  centers  and 
major  cities.)  In  addition,  16,000  unit  committees  were  estab- 
lished under  metropolitan,  municipal,  and  district  assemblies 
throughout  the  country.  No  Urban  Council,  Zonal  Council, 
Town  Council,  or  Unit  Committee  has  the  power  to  levy  any 
taxes  without  the  approval  of  the  relevant  assembly. 

The  functions  of  urban,  zonal,  and  town  councils  include 
assuming  the  functions  of  the  former  town  and  village  develop- 
ment committees  and  assisting  any  person  authorized  by  the 
assembly  to  collect  revenues  due  the  assembly.  In  addition,  the 
councils  organize  annual  congresses  of  the  people  within  their 
respective  jurisdictions  to  discuss  economic  development  and 
to  raise  contributions  to  fund  such  development.  Membership 
in  urban,  zonal,  or  town  councils  and  in  unit  committees  con- 
sists of  both  elected  and  appointed  people  from  within  the 
respective  jurisdiction. 

Each  of  the  ten  regions  is  administered  from  the  regional 
headquarters  or  capital  by  a  regional  secretary,  who  is  the 
regional  political  and  administrative  head.  The  regional  secre- 
tary is  supported  by  metropolitan  and  municipal  secretaries 
and  their  metropolitan  and  municipal  assemblies  as  well  as  by 
district  secretaries  and  the  district  assemblies  they  head.  At  the 
regional  headquarters,  the  regional  secretary  is  assisted  by  a 
Regional  Consultative  Council  and  a  Regional  Coordinating 
Council,  both  chaired  by  the  regional  secretary.  The  number 
of  administrative  districts  within  regions  varies — Ashanti 
Region  having  the  most — eighteen — and  Greater  Accra  Region 
and  Upper  West  Region,  the  fewest — five.  The  establishment 
of  a  district  assembly  in  each  region  ensured  that,  with  the  local 
people  in  control  of  their  own  affairs,  no  part  of  the  country 
would  be  neglected. 

Political  Dynamics  under  the  Fourth  Republic 

Launching  the  Fourth  Republic 

The  coming  into  force  of  the  new  constitution  with  the  inau- 
guration of  the  Fourth  Republic  and  the  installation  of  Jerry 
Rawlings  as  the  first  popularly  elected  president  of  Ghana  on 
January  7,  1993,  opened  a  new  chapter  in  Ghana.  In  spite  of 
the  heat  of  partisan  politics,  the  country's  political  climate 


227 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

remained  encouragingly  peaceful  on  the  whole.  There  were 
clear  indications  that  both  the  ruling  National  Democratic 
Congress  (NDC)  and  opposition  parties  and  groups  as  well  as 
the  general  public  were  committed  to  making  constitutional 
democracy  work. 

The  new  government  faced  several  challenges  in  early  1993. 
One  of  the  most  serious,  of  course,  was  the  problem  of  persis- 
tent and  widespread  economic  hardship.  Another  was  the  insti- 
tutionalization of  democratic  practice  and  constitutionalism  in 
a  de  facto  single-party  parliament  that  resulted  from  the  oppo- 
sition boycott  of  parliamentary  elections.  In  boycotting  the 
elections,  the  main  opposition  parties,  who  together  received 
about  40  percent  of  the  total  vote  in  the  presidential  election, 
denied  themselves  not  only  potential  cabinet  appointments  but 
also  any  direct  representation  in  parliament  and  any  opportu- 
nity for  real  power-sharing. 

This  was  regrettable,  because  throughout  Ghana's  postinde- 
pendence  history,  the  legislature  has  been  the  weakest  of  the 
three  branches  of  government.  Without  sitting  in  parliament, 
the  opposition  could  hardly  constitute  an  effective  shadow  cab- 
inet or  function  as  a  credible  government-in-waiting.  The  cre- 
ation of  a  new  voters  register  and  a  national  individual 
identification  system  as  called  for  by  the  opposition,  which 
Rawlings  publicly  acknowledged  as  necessary,  would  also  help 
build  a  more  effective  and  durable  multiparty  democracy.  A 
step  in  this  direction  came  in  early  1994  when  the  National 
Electoral  Commission,  created  in  1993,  set  up  the  Inter-Party 
Advisory  Committee  to  advise  it  on  electoral  issues.  This  ges- 
ture has  helped  dispel  the  opposition's  view  that  the  electoral 
commission  is  a  pro-government  body. 

Since  the  1992  elections,  the  opposition  parties,  notably  the 
NPP  led  by  Adu  Boahen,  have  sought  to  prove  their  commit- 
ment to  constitutionalism  by  organizing  public  rallies,  peaceful 
demonstrations,  and  press  conferences.  They  have  been  aided 
by  the  emergence  of  a  vigorous  private  press  and  by  state-con- 
trolled media  that  have  sought  to  report  the  views  of  opposi- 
tion groups.  The  opposition  also  has  chosen  to  go  to  court 
against  alleged  breaches  of  the  constitution  rather  than  to 
resort  to  confrontation  and  violence.  Indeed,  the  NPP  has 
urged  its  supporters  to  familiarize  themselves  with  their  consti- 
tutional rights,  to  criticize  the  government  when  it  is  wrong, 
and,  whenever  necessary,  to  resort  to  the  courts  and  not  to  vio- 
lence. 


228 


Government  and  Politics 


Such  tactics  on  the  part  of  the  opposition  are  consistent  with 
the  principal  concerns  raised  by  Rawlings  at  the  inauguration 
of  the  Fourth  Republic.  In  his  presidential  address,  Rawlings 
called  for  consultation  and  cooperation  with  all  political 
groups  in  the  country.  He  said  that  the  NDC  government 
would  continue  to  reach  out  to  the  opposition  parties  that  had 
boycotted  the  elections  because  it  was  the  government's  aim  to 
establish  a  culture  of  tolerance,  consultation,  and  consensus- 
building  based  on  mutual  respect. 

In  his  address,  Rawlings  also  indicated  the  basic  orientation 
of  his  government.  He  emphasized  that  the  condition  of  the 
national  economy  "must  be  the  foundation  of  Ghana's  demo- 
cratic aspirations  and  remained  the  government's  greatest  chal- 
lenge." He  noted  that  his  government  was  determined  to 
continue  the  Economic  Recovery  Program  (ERP)  and  that  the 
new  constitutional  order  could  not  be  divorced  from  the 
changes  brought  about  by  the  31st  December  1981  Revolution. 
In  addition,  he  remarked  that  he  bore  no  personal  grudge 
against  any  person  or  any  group  (having  in  mind  the  pre-  and 
postpresidential  election  disturbances  and  violence)  and 
invited  others  to  adopt  the  same  attitude. 

Rawlings  assured  the  armed  forces  that  they  would  remain 
actively  involved  in  all  national  endeavors  and  also  indicated 
that  Ghana's  role  in  world  affairs  would  not  change.  The  conti- 
nuity in  domestic,  economic,  and  foreign  policy  that  Rawlings 
stressed  is  reflected  in  the  government's  ministerial  and  other 
appointments.  For  example,  at  the  end  of  May  1993,  twenty- 
one  of  thirty-five  ministers  had  been  secretaries  under  the 
former  PNDC  government;  many  of  them  held  the  same  port- 
folios that  they  had  previously  held. 

Despite  some  positive  steps  toward  national  reconciliation, 
part  of  the  opposition  continued  to  distrust  the  new  adminis- 
tration. In  the  view  of  these  critics,  the  PNDC  was  still  in  power, 
and,  accordingly,  they  referred  to  the  new  administration  as 
"P/NDC"  or  "(P)NDC."  Some  members  of  the  opposition  also 
saw  the  new  parliament  as  merely  a  rubber-stamp  of  the  ruling 
NDC  administration.  The  reappointment  of  numerous  PNDC 
secretaries  to  the  new  NDC  administration  as  well  as  the  NDC 
pledge  of  continuity  in  economic  and  social  policy  confirmed 
the  worst  fears  of  the  opposition.  The  same  could  be  said  of  a 
presidential  order  in  January  1993  to  the  effect  that  persons 
who  had  been  in  office  as  PNDC  secretaries  for  ministries, 
regions,  or  districts  should  continue  in  their  offices  to  avoid 


229 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

the  breakdown  of  the  machinery  of  government.  As  the  oppo- 
sition was  quick  to  point  out,  the  presidential  order  technically 
violated  the  constitution;  however,  given  the  extenuating  cir- 
cumstances created  by  the  postponement  of  the  parliamentary 
elections,  the  order  was  probably  unavoidable. 

Developing  Democratic  Institutions 

The  growing  importance  of  the  legislative  arm  of  the  govern- 
ment in  national  affairs  was  reflected  in  several  developments. 
At  the  state  opening  of  parliament  on  April  29,  1993,  President 
Rawlings  gave  an  address  in  which  he  emphasized  that  the  con- 
tributions of  all  citizens  are  necessary  in  order  to  achieve  the 
national  goals  of  economic  development  and  social  justice.  He 
reminded  Ghanaians  that  the  proper  forum  for  political 
debate  under  constitutional  rule  is  parliament  and  called  upon 
the  leaders  of  the  parties  in  his  ruling  Progressive  Alliance  (the 
NDC,  the  National  Convention  Party  (NCP),  and  the  Every 
Ghanaian  Living  Everywhere  Party)  to  welcome  serious  dia- 
logue with  the  opposition  outside  parliament.  Such  a  move 
would  enable  the  opposition  parties  that  had  boycotted  the 
parliamentary  elections  to  contribute  to  national  political 
debate.  The  NPP  made  its  views  on  national  policy  heard 
through  invited  participation  in  parliamentary  committees, 
thus  attempting  to  influence  debates  and  particular  legislation. 

The  executive  and  the  legislative  branches  worked  to  ensure 
passage  of  nine  measures  that  would  establish  certain  major 
state  institutions  by  the  July  7,  1993,  deadline  stipulated  in  the 
constitution.  The  institutions  created  were  the  National  Com- 
mission on  Civic  Education,  the  National  Electoral  Commis- 
sion, the  District  Assemblies  Common  Fund,  the  Commission 
on  Human  Rights  and  Administrative  Justice,  the  Minerals 
Commission,  the  Forestry  Commission,  the  Fisheries  Commis- 
sion, the  National  Council  for  Higher  Education,  and  the 
National  Media  Commission. 

The  Courts  Act  of  July  6,  1993,  incorporated  the  public  tri- 
bunals created  under  the  PNDC  into  the  established  court  sys- 
tem. It  defined  the  jurisdiction  of  regional  tribunals  and 
established  lower  courts — circuit  tribunals  and  community  tri- 
bunals— to  replace  the  circuit  courts  and  the  district  (magis- 
trate) courts.  It  also  established  the  National  House  of  Chiefs, 
the  regional  houses  of  chiefs,  and  traditional  councils,  and  it 
provided  that  parliament  could  create  other  tribunals  as  the 
need  arose.  The  tribunals  are  empowered  to  try  criminal  and 


230 


Government  and  Politics 


civil  cases.  Throughout  1993  and  1994,  however,  the  Judicial 
Council  of  Ghana  was  working  to  amend  the  Courts  Act  to 
allow  the  pre-existing  circuit  and  district  courts  to  hear  cases 
meant  for  circuit  and  community  tribunals  until  such  time  as 
the  new  tribunals  become  fully  operational.  The  establishment 
of  the  lower  tribunals  has  been  delayed  because  of  lack  of  staff 
and  of  suitable  court  buildings  in  all  110  districts,  most  of 
which  are  poor  and  rural. 

Parliament  also  passed  the  controversial  Serious  Fraud 
Office  Bill.  This  bill  established  a  Serious  Fraud  Office  as  a  spe- 
cialized agency  of  the  state  to  monitor,  investigate,  and,  on  the 
authority  of  the  attorney  general,  prosecute  fraud  and  serious 
economic  crimes.  According  to  the  bill's  proponents,  complex 
fraud  and  economic  crimes  were  being  committed  that  posed  a 
direct  threat  to  national  security  and  that  were  possibly  linked 
to  illegal  drug  trafficking,  but  they  could  not  be  adequately 
investigated  and  prosecuted  under  existing  law. 

Critics  of  the  bill,  which  included  the  Ghana  Bar  Associa- 
tion, saw  it  as  an  attempt  on  the  part  of  the  ruling  NDC  to 
destroy  the  NPP,  which  considers  itself  the  party  of  business. 
They  also  viewed  it  as  containing  provisions  conflicting  directly 
with  constitutionally  guaranteed  fundamental  rights  to  liberty 
and  property.  Under  the  bill's  provisions,  anyone  can  be  inves- 
tigated for  fraud  except  the  president,  in  whose  case  the  consti- 
tution provides  elaborate  procedures  for  impeachment  in  case 
of  abuse  of  power  and  trust. 

Parliament's  success  can  be  attributed  to  the  leaders  of  the 
opposition  and  the  ruling  Progressive  Alliance,  who  chose  to 
settle  their  differences  through  dialogue  and  constitutional 
means  rather  than  through  confrontation.  The  same  tendency 
to  operate  within  the  framework  of  the  new  constitution 
applies  to  the  judicial  realm  as  well,  where  the  opposition, 
especially  the  NPP,  declared  itself  the  principal  watchdog  and 
custodian  of  civil  liberties  and  of  the  1992  constitution.  This 
task  is  consistent  with  the  leading  role  played  by  the  opposition 
in  the  demand  for  a  return  to  constitutional  rule  during  the 
PNDC  era. 

On  July  22,  1993,  a  week  after  celebrating  its  first  anniver- 
sary, the  NPP  won  three  major  and  surprising  victories  in  the 
Supreme  Court.  The  court,  which  the  opposition  believed  to 
be  under  the  control  of  the  executive,  upheld  two  suits 
intended  to  nullify  certain  existing  laws  and  decrees  that  the 
NPP  claimed  conflicted  with  the  1992  constitution.  In  the  first 


231 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

suit,  the  court  ordered  the  Ghana  Broadcasting  Corporation  to 
grant  the  NPP  "fair  and  equal  access  to  its  facilities  within  two 
weeks"  to  enable  the  party  to  articulate  its  views  on  the  1993 
budget  in  the  same  manner  as  the  ruling  NDC. 

In  the  second  judgment,  the  court  ruled  that  certain  sec- 
tions of  Public  Order  Decree  1972  were  inconsistent  with  the 
1992  constitution,  which  grants  the  individual  the  right  to  dem- 
onstrate or  to  take  part  in  a  procession  without  necessarily 
obtaining  a  permit  from  the  police.  The  NPP  had  challenged 
as  unconstitutional  the  arrest  and  subsequent  prosecution  of 
some  of  its  members  for  demonstrating  against  the  1993  bud- 
get on  February  15,  1993.  On  that  day,  the  Accra  police  had 
assaulted  the  demonstrators,  severely  injuring  many  of  them. 
The  verdict  in  the  NPP  suit  also  applied  to  the  shooting  attack 
on  university  students  by  commandos  on  March  22-23.  The 
students  were  protesting  the  government's  refusal  to  meet  their 
demand  for  an  increase  in  student  loans  from  90,000  to 
200,000  cedis  (for  value  of  the  Ghanaian  cedi — see  Glossary) 
because  of  a  rise  in  the  cost  of  living.  A  third  suit,  which  con- 
cerned police  powers  with  respect  to  public  assemblies,  did  not 
go  forward  because  the  law  had  been  repealed. 

Two  months  later,  the  NPP  scored  another  victory  in  the 
Supreme  Court  when  the  party  sought  a  declaration  to  stop  the 
election  of  district  chief  executives  (DCEs)  ahead  of  antici- 
pated District  Assembly  elections.  The  NPP  noted  that  the  elec- 
tion of  DCEs  by  sitting  district  assemblies  that  had  only  a  few 
months'  remaining  tenure  in  office  would  infringe  the  letter 
and  the  intent  of  the  constitution,  which  requires  that  newly 
elected  assemblies,  not  outgoing  assemblies,  elect  DCEs.  The 
court  granted  the  NPP's  application  for  an  interim  injunction 
and  ordered  the  suspension  of  DCE  elections  until  the  court 
could  examine  the  constitutionality  of  the  elections  process. 
Candidates  for  election  as  DCEs  had  been  nominated  by  Presi- 
dent Rawlings.  Within  a  few  days,  an  announcement  was  made 
that  Rawlings  had  only  appointed  acting  district  secretaries,  not 
DCEs,  for  all  110  district  assemblies;  the  president's  appointees, 
however,  appeared  to  be  mostly  the  same  individuals  nomi- 
nated as  DCEs.  The  opposition  then  took  this  matter  to  the 
Supreme  Court  on  a  charge  of  unconstitutionality,  but  the 
court  upheld  Rawlings's  action  in  May  1994. 

To  crown  the  constitutional  victories  of  the  NPP,  the 
Supreme  Court  ruled  at  the  end  of  1993  that  December  31, 
marking  the  31st  December  1981  Revolution,  should  no  longer 


232 


Jerry  John  Rawlings  being  sworn  in  as  president  of  the  Fourth  Republic 

of  Ghana,  January  1993 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


be  celebrated  as  a  public  holiday.  The  NPP  had  been  particu- 
larly outraged  when  newly  elected  President  Rawlings  declared 
that  any  interpretation  of  the  1992  constitution  would  be  sub- 
ject to  the  spirit  of  the  June  4,  1979,  uprising  and  the  31st 
December  1981  Revolution.  For  the  opposition,  these  events 
had  ushered  in  the  most  repressive  and  bloody  decade  in  the 
country's  postcolonial  history,  and  they  had  no  place  in  the 
new  democratic  constitutional  order. 

The  NPP,  after  documenting  alleged  irregularities  of  the 
November  1992  presidential  elections,  consolidated  its  posi- 
tion as  the  main  opposition  party  in  the  country.  It  presented 
itself  as  the  "constitutional"  party,  the  objectives  of  which  are  to 
ensure  that  constitutional  rule  is  established  in  Ghana  and  that 
the  private  sector  becomes  the  engine  of  growth  and  develop- 
ment. Furthermore,  at  a  widely  reported  press  conference  in 


233 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

July  1993  marking  the  first  anniversary  of  the  NPP,  the  party's 
chairman  proclaimed  his  party's  readiness  to  "do  business"  with 
the  NDC  government. 

Doing  business  with  the  government  did  not  mean,  as  many 
NPP  members  had  feared,  that  some  members  of  the  NPP 
executive  would  take  posts  in  the  NDC  administration.  It 
meant  talking  face-to-face  with  the  president,  the  legislature, 
and  the  judiciary  as  well  as  with  independent  institutions  of 
state.  These  dealings  were  intended  to  enhance  the  constitu- 
tional rights  of  all  Ghanaians  and  to  ensure  respect  for  human 
rights  and  proper  management  of  the  economy. 

The  new  NPP  policy — that  of  promoting  dialogue  between 
the  NPP  and  the  government,  which  began  in  November 
1993 — contributed  to  a  reduction  of  political  tension  in  the 
country.  Unlike  some  of  its  West  African  neighbors  that  are 
haunted  by  political  uncertainty  and  torn  by  war  and  civil  strife, 
Ghana  continued  to  enjoy  relative  peace  and  political  stability. 
This  was  true  despite  the  flare-up  of  interethnic  violence  and 
killing  in  the  northern  region  between  the  Konkomba  and  the 
Nanumba  in  early  1994,  leading  to  the  declaration  of  a  brief 
state  of  emergency  in  the  region. 

The  minor  opposition  parties  of  the  Nkrumahist  tradition, 
which  had  boycotted  dialogue  with  the  NDC  government,  also 
managed  after  a  long  period  of  internal  bickering  to  put  their 
houses  in  order  in  anticipation  of  the  1996  presidential  and 
parliamentary  elections.  The  parties  subscribing  to  the  ideals 
of  Nkrumah's  Convention  People's  Party,  with  the  exception  of 
the  People's  National  Convention  led  by  former  president 
Limann,  united  to  form  the  new  People's  Convention  Party, 
receiving  a  certificate  of  registration  in  January  1994. 

One  of  the  major  concerns  of  the  NPP  and  other  opposition 
parties  was  the  existence  in  the  Fourth  Republic  of  paramili- 
tary groups  and  revolutionary  organs,  such  as  CDRs,  which  had 
not  been  disbanded.  In  August  1993,  all  CDRs  were  put  into  a 
new  organization  known  as  the  Association  of  Committees  for 
the  Defence  of  the  Revolution.  This  new  association  was  to  con- 
tinue mobilizing  the  populace  for  community  development 
and  local  initiatives  within  the  framework  of  the  1992  constitu- 
tion. 

The  NPP  persisted  in  its  demands  for  a  new  voters  register 
and  for  national  identity  cards  to  ensure  free  and  fair  elections 
in  1996.  When  President  Rawlings  suggested  that  it  was 
cheaper  to  revise  the  voters  register  than  to  issue  national  iden- 


234 


Government  and  Politics 


tity  cards,  the  cost  of  which  would  be  prohibitive  for  the  gov- 
ernment, the  NPP  threatened  to  boycott  the  1996  elections 
unless  both  electoral  demands  were  met.  The  potential  boycott 
was  seemingly  averted  in  February  1994  when  the  United 
States  pledged  to  fund  the  printing  of  identity  cards  for  voters 
in  the  1996  elections. 

The  following  August,  the  chairman  of  the  National  Elec- 
toral Commission  promised  that  the  commission  would  take 
appropriate  steps  to  ensure  that  the  presidential  and  parlia- 
mentary elections  in  1996  would  be  free  and  fair.  These  steps 
were  to  include  the  training  of  some  80,000  party  agents  as 
observers.  The  National  Electoral  Commission  later  indicated 
that  identification  cards  would  be  issued  to  voters  during  regis- 
tration for  a  new  and  revised  electoral  roll  in  September  1995. 
The  Commission  also  favored  holding  the  elections  on  the 
same  day  and  felt  that  Ghanaians  living  abroad  should  have  the 
right  to  vote.  Eventually  the  NDC  government  promised  to 
ensure  that  the  1996  elections  would  be  free  and  fair  and  that 
international  observers  would  be  allowed. 

Meanwhile,  on  March  22,  1994,  the  first  nonpartisan  district- 
level  elections  to  be  conducted  under  the  Fourth  Republic 
were  successfully  held  in  all  but  thirteen  districts,  mostly  in  the 
north,  where  polling  was  postponed  because  of  interethnic 
conflicts.  About  10,880  candidates,  383  of  them  women,  com- 
peted for  4,282  seats  in  ninety-seven  district,  municipal,  and 
metropolitan  assemblies.  The  new  district  assemblies  were 
inaugurated  in  June  1994,  marking  another  step  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  democratic  system  of  local  government. 

By  mid-1994,  there  was  general  agreement  that  the  govern- 
ment's human  rights  record  had  improved  considerably.  The 
improvement  resulted  in  part  from  the  activities  of  the  many 
human  rights  groups  being  established  in  the  country.  The 
Ghana  Committee  on  Human  and  People's  Rights,  founded  by 
a  group  of  dedicated  lawyers,  trade  unionists,  and  journalists 
and  inaugurated  in  January  1991,  was  perhaps  the  most  promi- 
nent of  these.  Another  was  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights 
and  Administrative  Justice,  a  government  body  established  in 
1993  designed  to  deal  with  human  rights  issues  and  violations 
(see  Human  Rights,  ch.  5). 

Foreign  Relations 

Guiding  Principles  and  Objectives 

Ghana's  foreign  policy  since  independence  has  been  charac- 


235 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


terized  by  a  commitment  to  the  principles  and  ideals  of  non- 
alignment  and  Pan-Africanism  as  first  enunciated  by  Kwame 
Nkrumah  in  the  early  1960s.  For  Nkrumah,  nonalignment 
meant  complete  independence  from  the  policies  and  alliances 
of  both  East  and  West  and  support  for  a  worldwide  union  of  so- 
called  nonaligned  nations  as  a  counter  to  both  East  and  West 
power  blocs.  Pan-Africanism,  by  contrast,  was  a  specifically  Afri- 
can policy  that  envisioned  the  liberation  of  African  peoples 
from  Western  colonialism  and  the  eventual  economic  and 
political  unity  of  the  African  continent  (see  The  Organization 
of  African  Unity  and  the  Rest  of  Africa,  this  ch.). 

The  PNDC,  like  most  of  its  predecessors,  made  serious  and 
consistent  attempts  at  the  practical  application  of  these  ideals 
and  principles,  and  its  successor,  the  NDC  government,  prom- 
ises to  follow  in  the  PNDC's  footsteps.  Under  the  NDC,  Ghana 
remains  committed  to  the  principle  of  nonalignment  in  world 
politics.  Ghana  is  also  opposed  to  interference  in  the  internal 
affairs  of  both  small  and  large  countries.  This  is  a  departure 
from  Nkrumah's  foreign  policy  approach;  Nkrumah  was  fre- 
quently accused  of  subverting  African  regimes,  such  as  Togo 
and  Cote  d'lvoire,  which  he  considered  ideologically  conserva- 
tive. The  NDC  government,  like  the  PNDC  before  it,  believes  in 
the  principle  of  self-determination,  including  the  right  to  polit- 
ical independence  and  the  right  of  people  to  pursue  their  eco- 
nomic and  social  development  free  from  external  interference. 
Another  feature  of  NDC  rule  carried  over  from  the  PNDC  era 
is  faithfulness  to  what  a  leading  scholar  of  Africa  has  called 
"one  of  the  most  successful  neoclassical  economic  reform 
efforts  supported  by  the  IMF  and  the  World  Bank." 

The  broad  objectives  of  Ghana's  foreign  policy  thus  include 
maintaining  friendly  relations  and  cooperation  with  all  coun- 
tries that  desire  such  cooperation,  irrespective  of  ideological 
considerations,  on  the  basis  of  mutual  respect  and  noninterfer- 
ence in  each  other's  internal  affairs.  Africa  and  its  liberation 
and  unity  are  naturally  the  cornerstones  of  Ghana's  foreign 
policy.  Because  Ghana  was  a  founding  member  of  the  Organi- 
zation of  African  Unity  (OAU),  NDC  policy  is  to  adhere  faith- 
fully to  the  OAU  Charter. 

Another  important  principle  of  Ghana's  foreign  policy 
involves  the  closest  possible  cooperation  with  neighboring 
countries  with  which  the  people  of  Ghana  share  cultural  his- 
tory, ties  of  blood,  and  economics.  The  results  have  included 
various  bilateral  trade  and  economic  agreements  and  perma- 


236 


Government  and  Politics 


nent  joint  commissions  involving  Ghana  and  its  immediate 
neighbors,  sometimes  in  the  face  of  latent  ideological  and 
political  differences  and  mutual  suspicion,  as  well  as  numerous 
reciprocal  state  visits  by  high-ranking  officials.  These  measures 
have  contributed  significantly  to  subregional  cooperation, 
development,  and  the  reduction  of  tension. 

As  an  example  of  Ghana's  interest  in  regional  cooperation, 
the  country  enthusiastically  endorsed  formation  of  the  Eco- 
nomic Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  in  1975. 
This  organization  was  created  specifically  to  foster  intra- 
regional  economic  and  political  cooperation  (see  Trade,  ch. 
3).  It  has  served  as  a  useful  vehicle  for  contacts  with  neighbor- 
ing West  African  governments  and  for  channeling  increased 
Ghanaian  exports  to  regional  markets.  Since  1990  ECOWAS 
has  been  engaged  in  a  peacekeeping  mission  in  Liberia  to 
which  Ghana  has  contributed  a  large  contingent  of  troops. 
Ghana  has  participated  in  other  international  peacekeeping 
efforts  as  well,  sending  soldiers  to  operations  of  the  United 
Nations  (UN)  in  Cambodia  in  1992-93  and  Rwanda  in  1993-94 
(see  International  Security  Concerns,  ch.  5). 

In  August  1994,  Rawlings  became  ECOWAS  chairman,  a  post 
that  had  eluded  him  since  the  PNDC  came  to  power.  He  imme- 
diately undertook  several  initiatives  to  reduce  tensions  and 
conflict  in  West  Africa.  Notable  among  them  was  the  Ako- 
sombo  Accord  of  September  12,  1994,  designed  to  end  civil  war 
in  Liberia. 

Relations  with  Immediate  African  Neighbors 

The  NDC  government  continues  to  work  to  improve  and  to 
strengthen  relations  with  all  of  its  neighbors,  especially  Togo, 
Cote  d'lvoire,  Nigeria,  and  Burkina  Faso  (Burkina,  formerly 
Upper  Volta).  In  the  early  days  of  PNDC  rule,  relations  with 
Togo,  Cote  d'lvoire,  and  Nigeria  were  particularly  cool  and 
even  antagonistic.  By  1994  Ghana's  relations  with  its  West  Afri- 
can neighbors,  especially  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Togo,  had 
improved  significantly. 

Togo  and  Cote  d'lvoire 

In  the  early  1980s,  Cote  d'lvoire  and  Togo  worried  that  "the 
Rawlings  fever,"  the  "revolution,"  might  prove  contagious.  Both 
countries  were  headed  by  long-lived  conservative  governments 
faced  with  potentially  dangerous  internal  and  external  opposi- 
tion. The  strains  in  relations  among  Ghana,  Togo,  and  Cote 


237 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

d'lvoire  have  a  long  history;  in  Togo's  case,  they  go  back  to  pre- 
independence  days. 

After  1918,  following  the  defeat  of  Germany,  the  League  of 
Nations  divided  the  German  colony  of  Togoland  from  north  to 
south,  a  decision  that  divided  the  Ewe  people  among  the  Gold 
Coast,  British  Togoland,  and  French  Togoland.  After  1945,  the 
UN  took  over  the  Togoland  mandates.  During  the  1950s,  when 
the  independence  of  Ghana  was  in  sight,  demands  grew  for  a 
separate  Ewe  state,  an  idea  that  Kwame  Nkrumah,  leader  of  the 
Gold  Coast  independence  movement,  opposed.  Following  a 
UN  plebiscite  in  May  1956,  in  which  a  majority  of  the  Ewe 
voted  for  union  with  Ghana,  British  Togoland  became  part  of 
the  Gold  Coast.  After  Togolese  independence  in  1960,  rela- 
tions between  Togo  and  Ghana  deteriorated,  aggravated  by 
political  differences  and  incidents  such  as  smuggling  across 
their  common  border.  At  times,  relations  have  verged  on  open 
aggression. 

During  the  mid-1970s,  Togolese  President  General  Gnass- 
ingbe  Eyadema  for  a  time  revived  the  claim  to  a  part  or  all  of 
former  British  Togoland.  Two  leading  Ewe  members  from  the 
Volta  Region  sent  a  petition  to  the  UN  in  1974.  By  1976  a  Togo- 
land  Liberation  Movement  and  a  National  Liberation  Move- 
ment for  Western  Togoland  existed  and  were  agitating  for 
separation  from  Ghana.  The  Eyadema  government  publicly 
backed  their  demands,  although  it  subsequently  agreed  to 
cooperate  with  the  Ghanaian  government  against  the  separatist 
movements  and  against  smuggling.  A  factor  influencing  Eya- 
dema's  cooperative  attitude  was  doubtless  Togo's  dependence 
upon  electricity  from  Ghana's  Akosombo  Dam. 

A  consistent  preoccupation  of  Ghana,  Togo,  and  Cote  d'lvo- 
ire is  that  of  national  security.  The  PNDC  regime  repeatedly 
accused  both  Togo  and  Cote  d'lvoire  of  harboring  armed  Gha- 
naian dissidents  who  planned  to  overthrow  or  to  destabilize  the 
PNDC.  The  PNDC  also  accused  both  countries  of  encouraging 
the  smuggling  of  Ghanaian  products  and  currencies  across 
their  borders,  thus  undermining  Ghana's  political  and  eco- 
nomic stability  at  a  time  when  Ghana  was  experiencing  a  deep 
economic  crisis. 

In  June  1983,  when  the  PNDC  was  barely  eighteen  months 
old,  groups  opposed  to  the  PNDC  made  a  major  attempt  to 
overthrow  it.  Most  of  the  rebels  reportedly  came  from  Togo.  In 
August  1985,  Togo  in  turn  accused  Ghana  of  complicity  in  a 
series  of  bomb  explosions  in  Lome,  the  Togolese  capital.  In 


238 


Government  and  Politics 


July  1988,  an  estimated  124  Ghanaians  were  expelled  from 
Togo.  Nevertheless,  relations  subsequently  improved  signifi- 
cantly, leading  in  1991  to  the  reactivation  of  several  bilateral 
agreements. 

Greatly  improved  relations  between  Ghana  and  Togo,  espe- 
cially after  October  1990  when  opposition  pressure  forced  Eya- 
dema  to  agree  to  a  transition  to  multiparty  democracy, 
however,  could  hardly  disguise  the  persistence  of  old  mutual 
fears  about  threats  to  internal  security.  For  instance,  less  than 
three  weeks  after  Ghana's  Fourth  Republic  was  inaugurated,  an 
immense  refugee  problem  was  created  in  Ghana.  Following 
random  attacks  and  killings  of  civilians  in  Lome  by  Eyadema's 
army  on  January  26,  1993,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  terrorized 
Togolese  began  fleeing  into  Ghana.  At  the  end  of  January, 
Ghanaian  troops  were  placed  on  high  alert  on  the  Ghana-Togo 
border,  although  Obed  Asamoah,  the  Ghanaian  minister  of 
foreign  affairs,  assured  all  concerned  that  there  was  no  conflict 
between  Ghana  and  Togo. 

Sporadic  shooting  incidents  in  the  spring  continued  to  pro- 
duce a  regular  flow  of  refugees  into  Ghana.  By  May,  following 
Togo's  partial  closure  of  the  border,  all  persons  living  in  Togo, 
including  diplomats,  had  to  obtain  a  special  permit  from  the 
Togolese  interior  ministry  to  travel  to  Ghana  by  road.  Travelers 
from  Ghana  were  allowed  into  Togo  but  were  not  permitted  to 
return.  By  early  June,  half  of  Lome's  600,000  residents  were 
estimated  to  have  fled  to  neighboring  Ghana  and  Benin. 

At  the  beginning  of  1994,  relations  between  Ghana  and 
Togo  became  even  worse.  On  January  6,  a  commando  attack 
occurred  in  Lome,  which  Togolese  authorities  described  as  an 
attempt  to  overthrow  Eyadema.  The  Togolese  government 
accused  Ghana  of  direct  or  indirect  involvement  and  arrested 
Ghana's  charge  d'affaires  in  Lome.  Togolese  troops  then  bom- 
barded a  border  post,  killing  twelve  Ghanaians.  Camps  for 
Togolese  refugees  in  Ghana  also  were  reportedly  bombarded. 
The  Ghanaian  government  announced  that  it  would  press 
Togo  to  compensate  the  families  of  those  killed.  By  mid-year, 
however,  relations  had  improved  markedly.  In  August  Togo 
supported  the  nomination  of  Rawlings  for  the  post  of  ECO- 
WAS chairman.  Thereafter,  a  joint  commission  was  set  up  to 
examine  border  problems,  in  mid-November  a  Ghanaian 
ambassador  took  up  residence  in  Togo  for  the  first  time  since 
the  early  1980s,  and  Togo  was  considering  the  reopening  of  its 
border  with  Ghana. 


239 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Ghana-Cote  d'lvoire  relations  suffered  from  the  same  ups 
and  downs  that  characterized  Ghana-Togo  relations.  In  early 
1984,  the  PNDC  government  complained  that  Cote  d'lvoire 
was  allowing  Ghanaian  dissidents  to  use  its  territory  as  a  base 
from  which  to  carry  out  acts  of  sabotage  against  Ghana.  Ghana 
also  accused  Cote  d'lvoire  of  granting  asylum  to  political  agita- 
tors wanted  for  crimes  in  Ghana.  Relations  between  Ghana  and 
Cote  d'lvoire  improved  significantly,  however,  after  1988.  In 
1989,  after  fifteen  years  without  progress,  the  Ghana-Cote 
d'lvoire  border  redemarcation  commission  finally  agreed  on 
the  definition  of  the  640-kilometer  border  between  the  two 
countries.  The  PNDC  thereafter  worked  to  improve  the  trans- 
portation and  communication  links  with  both  Cote  d'lvoire 
and  Togo,  despite  problems  with  both  countries. 

By  1992  Ghana's  relations  with  Cote  d'lvoire  were  relatively 
good.  Hopes  for  lasting  improvement,  however,  were  quickly 
dashed  following  a  series  of  violent  incidents  in  late  1993  and 
early  1994.  The  incidents  began  on  November  1,  1993,  with  the 
return  of  sports  fans  to  Cote  d'lvoire  following  a  championship 
soccer  match  in  Kumasi,  Ghana,  that  had  resulted  in  the  elimi- 
nation of  Cote  d'lvoire  from  competition.  Ghanaian  immi- 
grants in  Cote  d'lvoire  were  violently  attacked,  and  as  many  as 
forty  or  more  Ghanaians  were  killed. 

Thereafter,  scores  of  other  Ghanaians  lost  their  property  as 
they  fled  for  their  lives.  Some  1,000  homes  and  businesses  were 
looted.  More  than  10,000  Ghanaians  out  of  the  approximately 
1  million  living  in  Cote  d'lvoire  were  immediately  evacuated  by 
the  Ghanaian  government,  and  more  than  30,000  Ghanaians 
were  reported  to  have  sought  refuge  in  the  Ghanaian  and 
other  friendly  embassies.  A  twenty-member  joint  commission 
(ten  from  each  country)  was  established  to  investigate  the 
attacks,  to  recommend  compensation  for  victims,  and  to  find 
ways  of  avoiding  similar  incidents  in  the  future.  In  October 
1994,  the  two  nations  resumed  soccer  matches  after  a  Togolese 
delegation  helped  smooth  relations  between  them. 

Burkina 

With  the  coming  to  power  of  Thomas  Sankara  in  Burkina  in 
1983,  relations  between  Ghana  and  Burkina  became  both 
warm  and  close.  Indeed,  Rawlings  and  Sankara  began  discus- 
sions about  uniting  Ghana  and  Burkina  in  the  manner  of  the 
defunct  Ghana-Guinea-Mali  Union,  which  Nkrumah  had 
sought  unsuccessfully  to  promote  as  a  foundation  for  his 


240 


Jerry  John  Rawlings, 
president  of  the  Fourth 
Republic  of  Ghana 
Courtesy 
Embassy  of  Ghana, 
Washington 


dream  of  unified  continental  government  (see  The  OAU  and 
the  Rest  of  Africa,  this  ch.).  Political  and  economic  ties 
between  Ghana  and  Burkina,  a  poorer  country,  were  strength- 
ened through  joint  commissions  of  cooperation  and  through 
border  demarcation  committee  meetings.  Frequent  high-level 
consultations  and  joint  military  exercises,  meant  to  discourage 
potential  dissidents  and  to  protect  young  "revolutions"  in  each 
country,  were  fairly  regular  features  of  Ghana-Burkina  rela- 
tions. 

Ethnic  ties  between  the  people  of  far  northern  Ghana  (nota- 
bly the  Mossi)  and  Burkina,  divided  by  artificial  borders  inher- 
ited from  colonial  rule,  grew  stronger  as  easy  border  crossings 
and  the  free  exchange  of  goods  and  services  contributed  to 
marked  improvements  in  the  material  and  the  social  welfare  of 
peoples  on  both  sides  of  the  border.  The  PNDC,  for  example, 
established  road,  air,  and  telecommunications  links  between 
Ghana  and  Burkina. 

Ghana's  warm  relations  with  Burkina  received  a  serious  but 
temporary  setback  with  the  assassination  of  Sankara  in  October 
1987.  His  successor,  Blaise  Campaore,  was  widely  believed  to 
have  been  responsible  for  the  assassination.  As  a  result,  rela- 
tions between  Ghana  and  Burkina  cooled.  Rawlings  and  Cam- 
paore met  briefly  for  the  first  time  in  early  1988  in  Tamale,  the 


241 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


capital  of  Ghana's  Northern  Region,  to  discuss  Ghana-Burkina 
relations. 

The  outbreak  of  civil  war  in  Liberia  in  1989  found  the  two 
countries  on  opposite  sides  of  the  conflict  (see  International 
Security  Concerns,  ch.  5).  Ghana,  at  great  financial  and  human 
cost,  immediately  repatriated  about  10,000  Ghanaians  living  in 
Liberia  and,  beginning  in  mid-1990,  contributed  a  contingent 
to  a  multinational  peacekeeping  force  second  in  size  only  to 
one  sent  by  Nigeria.  From  1990  to  1993,  Campaore's  role  in  the 
Liberian  conflict  was  at  odds  with  an  ECOWAS  peace  initiative 
spearheaded  by  Ghana  and  Nigeria,  because  Burkina  was 
believed  to  be  supplying  arms  to  rebel  leader  Charles  Taylor, 
long  regarded  as  the  main  obstacle  to  peace.  In  1994  relations 
between  Burkina  and  Ghana  showed  signs  of  warming  at  a  time 
when  Campaore  appeared  to  be  reassessing  his  policies  in 
Liberia  and  toward  Ghana  and  Nigeria. 

Nigeria 

Ghana's  relations  with  Nigeria,  West  Africa's  leading  country, 
began  on  a  sour  note  in  the  early  period  of  PNDC  rule.  Ten- 
sion rose  immediately  after  the  PNDC  deposed  Limann  in 
1981.  In  protest,  Nigeria  refused  to  continue  much-needed  oil 
supplies  to  Ghana.  At  the  time,  Ghana  owed  Nigeria  about 
US$150  million  for  crude  oil  supplies  and  depended  on  Nige- 
ria for  about  90  percent  of  its  petroleum  needs.  Nigeria's 
expulsion  of  more  then  1  million  Ghanaian  immigrants  in 
early  1983,  when  Ghana  was  facing  severe  drought  and  eco- 
nomic problems,  and  of  another  300,000  in  early  1985  on  short 
notice,  further  strained  relations  between  the  two  countries. 

In  April  1988,  a  joint  commission  for  cooperation  was  estab- 
lished between  Ghana  and  Nigeria.  A  bloodless  coup  in  August 
1985  had  brought  Major  General  Ibrahim  Babangida  to  power 
in  Nigeria,  and  Rawlings  took  advantage  of  the  change  of 
administration  to  pay  an  official  visit.  The  two  leaders  discussed 
a  wide  range  of  issues  focusing  on  peace  and  prosperity  within 
West  Africa,  bilateral  trade,  and  the  transition  to  democracy  in 
both  countries.  In  early  January  1989,  Babangida  reciprocated 
with  an  official  visit  to  Ghana,  which  the  PNDC  hailed  as  a 
watershed  in  Ghana-Nigeria  relations. 

Subsequent  setbacks  that  Babangida  initiated  in  the  demo- 
cratic transition  process  in  Nigeria  clearly  disappointed  Accra. 
Nonetheless,  the  political  crisis  that  followed  Babangida's 
annulment  of  the  results  of  the  June  1993  Nigerian  presiden- 


242 


Government  and  Politics 


tial  election  and  Babangida's  resignation  from  the  army  and 
presidency  two  months  later  did  not  significantly  alter  the  exist- 
ing close  relations  between  Ghana  and  Nigeria,  two  of  the  most 
important  members  of  ECOWAS  and  the  Commonwealth  of 
Nations.  After  the  takeover  in  November  1993  by  General  Sani 
Abacha  as  the  new  Nigerian  head  of  state,  Ghana  and  Nigeria 
continued  to  consult  on  economic,  political,  and  security  issues 
affecting  the  two  countries  and  West  Africa  as  a  whole.  Between 
early  August  1994,  when  Rawlings  became  ECOWAS  chairman, 
and  the  end  of  the  following  October,  the  Ghanaian  president 
visited  Nigeria  three  times  to  discuss  the  peace  process  in 
Liberia  and  measures  to  restore  democracy  in  that  country. 

The  Organization  of  African  Unity  and  the  Rest  of  Africa 

Beginning  with  the  independence  of  Ghana  in  1957  under 
Kwame  Nkrumah,  Pan-Africanism,  as  a  movement  uniting  all 
peoples  of  the  African  continent,  was  attempted  in  earnest. 
Pan-Africanism  became  identified  with  Nkrumah  more  than 
with  any  other  African  leader.  From  1950  to  1965,  the  aim  was 
to  achieve  political,  cultural,  and  economic  integration  at  the 
continental  level. 

Beginning  in  1958  with  the  formation  of  the  Ghana-Guinea 
Union,  followed  shortly  by  the  Ghana-Guinea-Mali  Union, 
Nkrumah  relentlessly  pursued  his  goal  of  a  Union  of  African 
States.  Working  with  leaders  of  other  independent  African 
countries,  he  convened  a  series  of  conferences  to  promote  the 
Pan-African  cause.  Finally,  a  summit  conference  met  in  Addis 
Ababa  in  May  1963  to  resolve  the  divisions,  unite  the  leaders, 
and  establish  a  common  Pan-African  organization. 

After  many  proposals  and  counterproposals  at  the  Addis 
Ababa  conference,  thirty  African  heads  of  states  and  govern- 
ments signed  the  historic  Charter  of  African  Unity,  which  estab- 
lished the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  The  charter, 
however,  fell  far  short  of  Nkrumah' s  ideal  of  African  continen- 
tal government.  At  subsequent  meetings  of  the  OAU  until  his 
overthrow  in  1966,  Nkrumah  continued  to  campaign  vigor- 
ously but  unsuccessfully  for  the  transformation  of  the  OAU 
into  a  continental  government  of  a  United  States  of  Africa. 
Ironically,  as  independent  African  states  concentrated  on 
domestic  problems  and  internal  developments,  they  found 
themselves  compelled  to  strengthen  ties  with  their  former  colo- 
nial rulers  rather  than  with  each  other.  In  Ghana's  case,  this 


243 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


meant  closer  relations  with  Britain,  particularly  after  the  over- 
throw of  Nkrumah. 

In  recognition  of  Nkrumah's  stature  in  the  Pan-Africanist 
cause,  PNDC  chairman  Rawlings  in  June  1985  dedicated  the 
W.E.B.  DuBois  Memorial  Center  for  Pan-African  Culture  in 
Accra.  The  DuBois  center  was  established  to  serve  as  a  Pan-Afri- 
can research  center  and  library  for  scholars  and  students  of 
Pan-Africanism  and  to  promote  research  and  scholarship  in 
the  tradition  of  the  African-American  scholar,  W.E.B.  DuBois. 

The  PNDC  made  a  determined  effort  to  revive  Ghana's  his- 
torical role  as  a  leader  in  the  OAU  and  in  the  struggle  against 
apartheid  in  South  Africa.  The  PNDC  stepped  up  material  and 
financial  assistance  and  diplomatic  support  to  the  OAU  Libera- 
tion Committee,  to  the  African  National  Congress  in  South 
Africa,  and  to  the  South  West  Africa  People's  Organisation  in 
South-West  Africa,  now  Namibia.  In  1987  Ghana  also  became  a 
member  of  the  permanent  steering  committee  of  the  OAU, 
which  was  charged  with  forging  a  common  African  position  on 
the  continent's  debt  problem.  The  same  year,  Ghana  made  a 
substantial  financial  contribution  of  US$5  million  to  the  Afri- 
can Fund  set  up  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  to  assist  Afri- 
can liberation  movements  and  to  strengthen  resistance  to 
South  African  destabilization  activities  in  southern  Africa.  The 
PNDC  also  contributed  US$1.3  million  annually  to  the  OAU 
budget.  Ghana  contributed  generously  to  the  OAU's  Libera- 
tion Fund  for  Namibia  as  well  as  US$5  million  to  the  African 
Fund  for  the  repatriation  of  Namibians  to  enable  them  to  par- 
ticipate in  pre-independence  elections  in  February  1990. 

The  PNDC  regime  sought  to  strengthen  ties  with  all  African 
countries.  Good  relations  with  the  countries  of  eastern  and 
southern  Africa  were  established  in  the  spirit  of  Pan-Africanism 
and  nonalignment.  In  addition  to  visiting  many  West  African 
countries,  Rawlings  traveled  to  Mozambique  in  October  1986 
for  the  funeral  of  Samora  Machel.  Ghana's  contribution  of 
US$250,000  toward  famine  relief  in  Mozambique  was  a  practi- 
cal demonstration  of  commitment  to  the  principles  of  the 
OAU.  In  late  January  1989,  Rawlings  paid  a  three-day  official 
visit  to  Uganda  on  the  occasion  of  the  third  anniversary  of  the 
government's  victory  in  a  long  civil  war.  He  also  visited  Tanza- 
nia and  Zimbabwe. 

Ghana's  political  and  diplomatic  resurgence  in  Africa  and  in 
world  affairs  under  PNDC  leadership  was  evident  from  the 
number  of  reciprocal  visits  to  promote  bilateral  ties  and  coop- 


244 


Government  and  Politics 


eration.  Among  those  visiting  Ghana  between  1987  and  1994 
were  Zambia's  President  Kenneth  Kaunda;  Uganda's  President 
Yoweri  Museveni;  Tanzania's  former  President  Julius  Nyerere, 
who  received  Ghana's  highest  state  award,  the  Order  of  the 
Star  of  Ghana,  in  recognition  of  his  life-long  devotion  to  Pan- 
Africanism  and  the  nonaligned  movement;  Libya's  Colonel 
Muammar  al  Qadhafi;  and  Zimbabwe's  President  Robert 
Mugabe.  In  September  1994,  President  Rawlings  paid  a  ten-day 
visit  to  Botswana,  Namibia,  and  Zimbabwe,  signing  bilateral 
agreements  in  the  latter  two  countries  for  political  coopera- 
tion, trade,  and  industrial  development.  Ghanaian  diplomats 
are  expected  to  arrive  in  Pretoria,  the  Republic  of  South  Africa, 
in  early  1995  to  open  Ghana's  new  High  Commission. 

Britain  and  the  Commonwealth 

By  historical  tradition  and  choice,  Ghana's  political  future 
has  been  bound  up  with  that  of  Britain  and  the  Common- 
wealth of  Nations.  Indeed,  Nkrumah  led  the  way  for  indepen- 
dent African  states  that  were  former  British  colonies  to  join  the 
Commonwealth. 

The  close  bond  between  Ghana  and  Britain  was  evident  in 
1959  when  Queen  Elizabeth  II,  the  head  of  the  Commonwealth 
of  Nations,  visited  Ghana  and  received  a  warm  reception.  At 
the  1964  Commonwealth  Conference,  Nkrumah  proposed  the 
establishment  of  a  permanent  Commonwealth  secretariat,  in 
order,  as  Nkrumah  put  it,  "to  make  the  Commonwealth  move 
in  tune  with  the  common  aspirations  of  its  members."  Accord- 
ing to  one  observer,  Nkrumah  believed  the  Commonwealth 
was  an  example  of  how  a  free  association  of  independent  states 
should  work.  The  Commonwealth  provided  a  vehicle  for  the 
transfer  of  technology  and  for  economic  and  cultural  coopera- 
tion. It  also  served  as  a  place  for  developing  the  most  effective 
methods  for  ending  colonialism  without  revolution  or  violence 
and  under  conditions  in  which  a  former  colonial  territory 
could  retain  a  close  association  with  the  former  imperial  power. 

Nkrumah  again  took  the  lead  in  forcing  South  Africa  out  of 
the  Commonwealth  in  1961.  In  1965  Ghana  was  forced  to 
break  diplomatic  relations  with  Britain  in  order  to  support  the 
OAU  resolution  over  Rhodesia's  (later,  Zimbabwe)  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  and  imposition  of  a  white  minor- 
ity government.  Relations  were  restored  the  next  year,  however, 
following  the  overthrow  of  Nkrumah. 


245 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Following  the  31st  December  1981  Revolution,  Ghana  lost  its 
membership  in  the  Commonwealth  Parliament  Association, 
which  promotes  interchange  and  understanding  among  parlia- 
mentarians of  member  states.  Ghana  was  readmitted  to  the 
association  in  September  1993,  the  same  year  it  was  also  read- 
mitted to  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union,  another  Common- 
wealth institution.  With  its  readmission  to  these  two  bodies, 
Ghana  became  a  major  player  in  Commonwealth  affairs.  In 
May  1994,  Ghana  hosted  a  Commonwealth  conference  on  local 
government  that  attracted  participants  from  several  West  Afri- 
can countries.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  Ghana  remained  the  only 
West  African  Commonwealth  country  with  an  elected  govern- 
ment, the  other  three  members — Nigeria,  Sierra  Leone,  and 
Gambia — all  being  under  military  rule.  As  a  contribution 
toward  Ghanaian  democracy,  the  Commonwealth,  along  with 
the  OAU  and  the  Carter  Center  in  the  United  States,  provided 
international  observer  teams  to  monitor  Ghana's  presidential 
election  in  November  1992. 

Ghana's  relations  with  Britain  continued  to  be  generally 
good  under  the  PNDC.  British  Minister  of  State  for  Foreign 
and  Commonwealth  Affairs,  Mrs.  Lynda  Chalker,  paid  a  suc- 
cessful official  visit  to  Ghana  in  early  1987  which  resulted  in 
enhanced  British  aid  for  Ghana'  economic  reforms.  Since  the 
ERP  began  in  1983,  Britain  has  given  Ghana  more  than  £69 
million  as  balance  of  payments  support.  Ghana  has  reportedly 
garnered  more  aid  from  Britain  than  any  African  country 
except  Zimbabwe.  Britain,  along  with  other  Western  countries 
and  international  development  agencies,  also  provided  much 
needed  technical,  logistical,  and  financial  support  for  the 
implementation  of  Ghana's  governmental  decentralization 
effort,  for  the  first  District  Assembly  elections  in  1988-89,  as 
well  as  for  the  presidential  and  parliamentary  elections  in 
1992. 

The  United  States 

Ghana  has  in  general  enjoyed  good  relations  with  the 
United  States  since  independence,  except  for  a  period  of 
strained  relations  during  the  later  years  of  the  Nkrumah 
regime.  Ghana  was  the  first  country  to  which  United  States 
Peace  Corps  volunteers  were  sent  in  1961.  Ghana  and  the 
United  States  are  signatories  to  twenty  agreements  and  treaties 
covering  such  matters  as  agricultural  commodities,  aviation, 
defense,  economic  and  technical  cooperation,  education, 


246 


The  Kwame  Nkrumah  Mausoleum  in  Accra,  dedicated  in  1992 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


extradition,  postal  matters,  telecommunications,  and  treaty 
obligations.  The  refusal  of  the  United  States  to  join  the  Inter- 
national Cocoa  Agreement,  given  Ghana's  heavy  dependence 
on  cocoa  exports  to  earn  hard  currency,  is  the  most  serious 
bilateral  issue  between  the  two  countries. 

Relations  between  the  United  States  and  Ghana  were  partic- 
ularly rocky  in  the  early  1980s,  apparently  because  of  Ghana's 
relations  with  Libya.  The  PNDC  government  restored  diplo- 
matic relations  with  Libya  shortly  after  coming  to  power.  Libya 
came  to  the  aid  of  Ghana  soon  afterward  by  providing  much- 
needed  economic  assistance.  Libya  also  has  extensive  financial 
holdings  in  Ghana.  Rawlings  has  supported  Libya's  position 
that  two  Libyans  accused  of  bombing  a  Pan  American  Airlines 
flight  over  Lockerbie,  Scotland,  in  1988  should  be  tried  in  a 
neutral  country  rather  than  in  Britain  or  the  United  States. 


247 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Relations  between  the  United  States  and  Ghana  were  further 
strained  by  a  series  of  diplomatic  incidents  in  the  mid-1980s.  In 
July  1985,  a  distant  relative  of  Rawlings,  Michael  Soussoudis, 
was  arrested  in  the  United  States  and  charged  with  espionage. 
Despite  Soussoudis's  conviction,  he  was  exchanged  the  follow- 
ing December  for  several  known  United  States  Central  Intelli- 
gence Agency  (CIA)  agents  in  Accra,  but  not  before  diplomats 
had  been  expelled  in  both  Accra  and  Washington.  In  March 
1986,  a  Panamanian-registered  ship  carrying  arms  and  a  num- 
ber of  mercenaries  and  United  States  veterans  of  the  Vietnam 
War  was  seized  off  the  coast  of  Brazil.  The  PNDC  charged  that 
the  arms  and  soldiers  were  destined  for  Ghana  and  that  they 
had  been  financed  by  a  Ghanaian  dissident  with  links  to  the 
CIA.  During  their  trial,  several  crew  members  admitted  that  the 
charges  were  substantially  true.  Although  they  were  convicted 
and  imprisoned,  three  subsequently  escaped  with  what  the 
PNDC  alleged  was  CIA  assistance. 

In  spite  of  these  incidents,  relations  between  the  United 
States  and  Ghana  had  improved  markedly  by  the  late  1980s. 
Former  United  States  president  Jimmy  Carter  visited  Ghana  in 
1986  and  again  in  1988  and  was  warmly  received  by  the  PNDC. 
His  Global  2000  agricultural  program  (see  Glossary),  which  is 
quite  popular  with  Ghanaian  farmers,  is  helping  promote  good 
relations  with  the  United  States.  In  1989  the  United  States  for- 
gave US$114  million  of  Ghana's  foreign  debt,  part  of  a  larger 
debt  relief  effort  by  Western  nations.  The  United  States  has 
strongly  favored  Ghana's  economic  and  political  reform  poli- 
cies, and  since  the  birth  of  the  Fourth  Republic  and  Ghana's 
return  to  constitutional  rule,  has  offered  assistance  to  help 
Ghana  institutionalize  and  consolidate  its  steps  toward  demo- 
cratic governance.  In  FY  1994,  United  States  development  aid 
totaled  about  US$38  million;  in  addition,  the  United  States 
supplied  more  than  US$16  million  in  food  aid. 

Other  Countries 

After  1981,  PNDC  foreign  policy  was  designed  to  promote 
the  country's  economic  growth  and  well-being  by  establishing 
friendly  relations  and  cooperation  with  all  countries  irrespec- 
tive of  their  economic  and  political  philosophies  or  ideological 
orientation.  PNDC  policy  also  sought  new  markets  for  Ghana's 
exports,  the  expansion  of  existing  markets,  and  new  invest- 
ment opportunities. 


248 


Government  and  Politics 


Ghana's  relations  with  Canada  were  quite  good  under  the 
PNDC,  as  were  Ghana's  relations  with  the  European  Commu- 
nity and  its  member  countries.  In  1987,  as  part  of  its  cancella- 
tion of  the  debts  of  several  African  countries,  Canada  canceled 
a  Ghanaian  debt  of  US$77.6  million.  In  1989  Germany  can- 
celed US$295  million  of  Ghana's  foreign  debt,  and  France  can- 
celed US$26  million. 

A  number  of  Western  countries,  including  France  and  Can- 
ada, continued  to  cancel  debts  in  1991,  reflecting  the  generally 
cordial  relations  between  Ghana  and  Western  countries  and 
the  confidence  the  West  had  in  PNDC  policies.  In  early  July 
1991,  Rawlings  paid  a  three-day  official  visit  to  Paris,  which  sym- 
bolized the  close  ties  that  had  developed  between  the  PNDC 
and  the  French  government.  Western  countries  have  contin- 
ued to  show  keen  interest  in,  and  support  for,  the  ERP  and 
Ghana's  transition  to  democratic  government. 

In  line  with  its  commitment  to  the  principles  of  nonalign- 
ment,  the  PNDC  sought  to  develop  close  relations  with  the 
socialist  regimes  in  Eastern  Europe,  Cuba,  the  Democratic  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of  Korea  (North  Korea),  and  China.  In  the  early 
days  of  PNDC  rule,  Rawlings  made  official  visits  to  China  and 
Ethiopia,  the  latter  then  headed  by  a  Marxist-Leninist  regime. 

During  these  visits,  various  economic,  trade,  and  cultural 
agreements  were  concluded.  Notable  was  the  PNDC  agreement 
with  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (GDR  or  East  Ger- 
many) for  the  improvement  of  roads  in  Kumasi,  Ghana's  sec- 
ond largest  city,  and  of  the  Kumasi-Accra  highway.  The  GDR 
also  supplied  Ghana  with  new  railroad  coaches.  Barter  trade 
with  East  European  countries,  especially  the  GDR,  Romania, 
and  Bulgaria,  also  increased.  The  PNDC  established  a  State 
Committee  for  Economic  Cooperation  to  ensure  more  effec- 
tive cooperation  with  socialist  countries  and  showed  keen  inter- 
est in  developing  relations  with  the  Council  for  Mutual 
Economic  Assistance. 

The  PNDC  policy  of  restructuring  Ghana's  education  sys- 
tem, moving  from  purely  academic  curricula  to  vocational  and 
technical  training,  benefited  from  Ghana's  close  ties  with 
socialist  countries,  notably  Cuba.  By  1985  Cuba  was  training 
some  1,000  Ghanaian  school  children  and  middle-level  techni- 
cians. Cuba  also  offered  Ghanaians  training  in  political  leader- 
ship for  "revolutionary  organs"  and  national  security. 
Hundreds  of  Ghanaian  youths  left  for  various  socialist  coun- 
tries to  pursue  professional  and  technical  courses.  The  Soviet 


249 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Union,  China,  and  other  socialist  countries  awarded  scholar- 
ships to  Ghanaians  for  both  academic  and  technical  courses.  In 
addition,  short-term  training  was  offered  for  Ghana's  Commit- 
tees for  the  Defence  of  the  Revolution.  Bulgaria  provided  train- 
ing in  political  organization  and  leadership,  and  the  Soviet 
Union  furnished  education  in  medicine,  veterinary  sciences, 
and  engineering. 

The  PNDC  believed  that  Cuba  provided  a  fruitful  field  for 
cooperation  in  areas  other  than  education.  The  PNDC  agreed 
to  a  joint  commission  for  economic  cooperation  and  signed  a 
number  of  scientific  and  technical  agreements  with  Cuba  rang- 
ing from  cultural  exchanges  to  cooperation  in  such  fields  as 
health,  agriculture,  and  education.  Cuba  trained  Ghana's 
national  militia,  gave  advice  in  the  creation  of  mass  organiza- 
tions such  as  the  CDRs,  and  provided  military  advisers  and 
medical  and  security  officers  for  the  PNDC  leadership.  The  two 
countries  also  signed  agreements  for  the  renovation  of  Ghana's 
sugar  industry  and  for  three  factories  to  produce  construction 
materials.  In  1985  Ghana  and  Cuba  signed  their  first  barter 
agreement,  followed  by  new  trade  protocols  in  1987  and  1988. 
Cuban  medical  brigades  worked  in  Tamale  in  the  Northern 
Region,  one  of  the  poorest  areas  in  Ghana.  Cubans  coached 
Ghanaian  boxers  and  athletes  and  taught  Spanish  in  Ghanaian 
schools. 

Ghana's  relations  with  Cuba  continue  to  be  strong  despite 
Ghana's  return  to  multiparty  democracy  and  the  severe  eco- 
nomic crisis  in  Cuba  in  1993  and  1994.  A  joint  commission  for 
cooperation  between  the  two  countries  meets  biennially  in  the 
alternate  venues  of  Accra  and  Havana.  Cuba  is  helping  to  cre- 
ate a  faculty  of  medical  sciences  in  Ghana's  new  University  of 
Development  Studies  at  Tamale  (see  The  Education  System, 
ch.  2).  At  the  end  of  1994,  thirty-three  medical  specialists  were 
working  in  Ghanaian  hospitals.  A  bilateral  exchange  of  tech- 
nology and  experts  in  mining  and  agriculture  was  also  under- 
way. Cuba  is  training  600  Ghanaians,  mostly  in  technical 
disciplines,  including  engineering,  architecture,  and  medicine. 
The  two  countries  are  engaged  in  successful  business  ventures, 
too,  including  a  first-class  tourist  resort  at  Ada  in  Greater  Accra 
Region  and  a  Ghana-Cuba  construction  company. 

Economic  relations  between  Ghana  and  Japan  are  quite  cor- 
dial, having  improved  considerably  under  the  PNDC.  Japan 
offered  Ghana  about  US$680  million  toward  the  rehabilitation 
of  its  telephone  and  television  services.  Following  the  visit  to 


250 


Government  and  Politics 


Japan  of  a  Ghanaian  delegation  in  early  1987,  Japan  pledged  a 
total  of  US$70  million  toward  Ghana's  economic  development. 
In  early  1994,  Japan  offered  a  further  US$16.6  million  to  mod- 
ernize rail  transport  and  to  improve  water  supplies.  In  October 
1994,  Ghana  joined  in  urging  the  UN  Security  Council  to 
admit  Japan  and  Germany,  two  countries  that  in  1993  and  1994 
were  among  Ghana's  largest  aid  donors,  in  recognition  of  the 
international  political  and  economic  stature  of  both  countries. 

Ghana's  relations  with  Arab  countries  were  also  generally 
good  during  the  PNDC  period,  and  they  remained  so  under 
the  new  NDC  administration.  Considerable  economic  assis- 
tance flowed  into  Ghana  from  the  Arab  world.  Ghana  signed 
loan  agreements  with  the  Saudi  Arabian  Fund  for  Develop- 
ment for  various  development  projects  in  Ghana,  including  the 
promotion  of  Islamic  education.  In  early  January  1994,  loan 
agreements  totaling  US$16.5  million  from  the  Kuwaiti  Fund 
for  Arab  Economic  Development  were  signed  to  fund  a  ther- 
mal power  plant  at  Takoradi. 

Following  the  peace  accord  between  Israel  and  the  Palestine 
Liberation  Organization  in  September  1993,  Ghana  reestab- 
lished diplomatic  relations  with  Israel  in  August  1994.  Diplo- 
matic relations  between  the  two  countries  had  been  broken  in 
1973  in  support  of  member  Arab  states  of  the  OAU  who  were  at 
war  with  Israel.  In  urging  resumption  of  diplomatic  ties,  parlia- 
ment noted  that  Ghana  stood  to  gain  access  to  Israeli  technol- 
ogy, notably  in  water  engineering  and  irrigation,  sewerage 
construction,  and  agriculture. 

Finally,  in  June  1994,  a  new  Ghanaian  ambassador  presented 
his  credentials  to  Russian  president  Boris  Yeltsin  in  Moscow  At 
the  time,  the  Ghanaian  government  expressed  its  hope  that 
democratic  restructuring  in  both  Ghana  and  Russia  and  the 
advent  of  a  market  economy  in  Russia  would  lead  to  new  and 
diversified  bilateral  trade  and  economic  cooperation. 

International  Organizations 

Ghana  belongs  to  sixteen  UN  organizations  and  twenty-four 
other  international  organizations,  including  the  Common- 
wealth. Nkrumah  saw  the  UN  as  the  most  effective  forum  for 
small,  poor  countries  such  as  Ghana  to  exert  some  influence  in 
a  world  dominated  by  more  powerful  nations.  As  it  had  with 
the  Commonwealth,  Ghana,  a  leader  among  countries  of  the 
developing  world,  sought  to  enlarge  the  UN  role  in  economic 
development  and  to  make  it  an  effective  force  for  world  peace. 


251 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Ghana  was  also  a  leader  of  the  African  countries  that  lobbied  to 
advance  the  cause  of  freedom  in  Africa.  Nkrumah  made  the 
UN  Charter  a  plank  of  Ghana's  foreign  policy  and  helped  to 
make  the  UN  a  forum  for  nonalignment  as  he  maneuvered 
with  other  Afro-Asian  leaders  between  East  and  West.  Among 
Ghanaians  who  have  achieved  world  prominence  in  the  UN  is 
Kenneth  Dadzie,  who  from  1986  to  1994  was  secretary  general 
of  the  UN  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development. 

The  PNDC  preserved  Ghana's  commitment  to  the  ideals  and 
objectives  of  the  UN.  In  recognition  of  Ghana's  strong  commit- 
ment to  African  causes  and  its  active  involvement  in  the  Gene- 
ral Assembly,  Ghana  became  one  of  the  African  countries 
elected  to  a  non-permanent  seat  in  the  UN  Security  Council 
during  1986-87.  Ghana  has  also  contributed  troops  to  UN 
peacekeeping  operations  around  the  world,  including  Iraq- 
Kuwait  (1991),  Cambodia  (1992-93),  and  Rwanda  (1993-94) 
(see  International  Security  Concerns,  ch.  5). 

The  PNDC  also  maintained  Ghana's  active  membership  in 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  Indeed,  the  diplomatic  highlight 
of  the  PNDC  government  in  1991  was  its  successful  hosting,  in 
Accra  in  early  September,  of  the  tenth  ministerial  conference 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  The  meeting  attracted  one  of 
the  largest  contingents  of  foreign  ministers  of  all  recent  Afri- 
can conferences. 

Ghana  also  hosted  a  well-attended  conference  of  nongovern- 
mental organizations  in  Accra  in  late  August  1991  as  a  prelude 
to  the  nonaligned  conference.  The  conference  concerned 
itself  with  economic  development,  peace,  and  a  just  world 
order. 

In  honor  of  Kwame  Nkrumah,  Ghana's  first  president  and  a 
founding  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  of  Pan- 
Africanism,  the  PNDC  commissioned  the  Kwame  Nkrumah 
Memorial  Park  and  the  Nkrumah  Mausoleum  in  Accra  on  July 
1,  1992.  The  remains  of  the  late  president  were  brought  from 
Nkroful,  his  birthplace,  and  reinterred  in  a  moving  public  cere- 
mony. The  park  and  the  mausoleum  fulfilled  a  pledge  made  by 
the  PNDC  in  1990  to  commemorate  Nkrumah's  contributions 
to  Ghana  and  to  Africa  by  means  of  an  appropriate  memorial. 

Future  Democratic  Prospects 

At  the  end  of  1994,  Ghana's  young  democracy  seemed  intact 
and  on  course.  Although  the  electoral  processes  of  the  Fourth 
Republic  were  riddled  with  controversy  and  even  some  vio- 


252 


Government  and  Politics 


lence,  the  prospects  for  multiparty  democracy  appeared  bright. 
This  was  true  despite  the  opposition  boycott  of  the  parliamen- 
tary elections,  leading  to  a  virtual  one-party  state  in  practice. 
The  NDC  government  had  so  far  demonstrated  a  willingness  to 
abide  by  the  strictures  of  the  1992  constitution;  the  legislature 
appeared  unrestricted  in  its  deliberations,  which  were  open  to 
public  scrutiny  and  opposition  criticism  despite  the  absence  of 
a  formal  parliamentary  opposition;  and  the  judiciary  had  estab- 
lished its  independence,  unfettered  by  executive  interference 
in  its  decisions,  a  majority  of  which  had  gone  against  the  gov- 
ernment. 

Another  positive  development  since  the  establishment  of  the 
Fourth  Republic  in  January  1993  has  been  the  growing  accep- 
tance by  the  NDC-dominated  government  of  the  crucial  dis- 
tinction between  the  interests  of  a  ruling  party  and  those  of  the 
state  or  civil  society.  This  distinction  was  virtually  nonexistent 
under  military  rule  or  the  one-party  state.  This  development  in 
turn  has  resulted  in  the  emergence  and  growth  of  independent 
civic  institutions  and  organizations. 

In  celebrating  two  years  of  democracy  at  the  end  of  1994, 
Ghanaians  were  not  forgetful  of  the  painful  fact  that  each  of 
the  last  two  attempts  at  constitutional  rule  had  come  to  an 
abrupt  end  after  only  two  years.  Given  the  record  since  1992, 
however,  there  was  cause  for  cautious  optimism.  It  may  be  that 
the  return  of  Jerry  Rawlings  in  1981  will  turn  out  to  be  the 
coup  that  ended  the  cycle  of  coups  and  the  act  that  led  at  last 
to  a  new  political  era  in  Ghana. 

*  *  * 

A  rich  body  of  literature  exists  on  government  and  politics  in 
Ghana  during  the  colonial  and  early  postindependence  peri- 
ods. Individual  works  range  from  general  historical  surveys  to 
important  case  studies  produced  by  Ghanaian  and  foreign  spe- 
cialists. The  politics  and  government  of  the  PNDC  and  the 
Fourth  Republic,  however,  are  less  fully  documented. 

Among  classic  studies  of  the  early  decolonization  and  postin- 
dependence periods  are  Dennis  Austin's  Politics  in  Ghana, 
1946-1960,  David  E.  Apter's  Ghana  in  Transition,  and  Maxwell 
Owusu's  Uses  and  Abuses  of  Political  Power:  A  Case  Study  of  Continu- 
ity and  Change  in  the  Politics  of  Ghana.  The  standard  works  on 
foreign  policy  covering  the  Nkrumah  period  (1957-66), 
namely  Willard  S.  Thompson's  Ghana's  Foreign  Policy,  1957- 


253 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

1966:  Diplomacy,  Ideology,  and  the  New  State  and  Michael  Dei- 
Anang's  The  Administration  of  Ghana's  Foreign  Relations,  1957- 
1965:  A  Personal  Memoir,  are  equally  relevant  for  a  complete 
understanding  of  foreign  policy  under  the  PNDC  and  the 
Fourth  Republic,  which  remains  basically  Nkrumahist. 

Zaya  Yeebo's  Ghana,  the  Struggle  for  Popular  Power:  Rawlings, 
Saviour  or  Demagogue  and  Donald  I.  Ray's  Ghana:  Politics,  Econom- 
ics, and  Society  are  leftist  and  partisan  but  contain  useful 
insights.  Ghana  under  PNDC  Rule,  1982-1989,  edited  by  E.  Gyi- 
mah-Boadi,  with  contributions  by  eleven  Ghanaian  academics 
at  the  University  of  Ghana,  provides  a  balanced  if  brief  over- 
view of  the  years  of  PNDC  rule.  Good  preliminary  studies  of 
party  politics  in  the  Fourth  Republic  are  presented  in  the  vol- 
ume entitled  Political  Parties  and  Democracy  in  Ghana1  s  Fourth 
Republic,  edited  by  Kwame  A.  Ninsin  and  Francis  K.  Drah. 

Jeffrey  Herbst's  The  Politics  of  Reform  in  Ghana,  1982-1991  is  a 
good  critical  examination  of  the  politics  of  economic  reform 
under  the  PNDC.  The  most  systematic  and  comprehensive 
study  of  the  presidential  and  parliamentary  elections  of  1992  is 
by  Richard  Jeffries  and  Clare  Thomas,  "The  Ghanaian  Elec- 
tions of  1992."  Maxwell  Owusu's  "Custom  and  Coups:  A  Juridi- 
cal Interpretation  of  Civil  Order  and  Disorder  in  Ghana," 
"Rebellion,  Revolution  and  Tradition:  Reinterpreting  Coups  in 
Ghana,"  and  "Democracy  and  Africa — A  View  From  the  Vil- 
lage" provide  in-depth  analysis  as  well  as  a  cultural  and  histori- 
cal perspective  on  the  PNDC  period.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography) 


254 


er  5.  National  Security 


Ceremonial  state  sword,  symbol  of  chiefly  authority  and  power  among  theAkan 


GHANA  HAS  A  RICH  AND  VARIED  military  history.  During 
the  nineteenth  century,  the  Asante,  one  of  the  major  ethnic 
groups  in  the  country,  relied  on  military  power  to  extend  their 
rule  throughout  most  of  what  eventually  became  the  modern 
state  of  Ghana.  The  Asante  also  engaged  in  a  series  of  military 
campaigns  against  the  British  (in  1873,  1896,  and  1900)  for 
control  of  the  country's  political  and  economic  systems.  After 
the  British  established  a  protectorate,  thousands  of  Ghanaians 
served  in  the  Royal  West  African  Frontier  Force.  In  the  two 
world  wars  of  the  twentieth  century,  tens  of  thousands  of  Gha- 
naians fought  with  the  Western  allies.  From  1945  until  1957, 
the  British  used  the  Ghanaian  army  to  maintain  internal  secu- 
rity. 

At  independence  in  1957,  Ghana's  armed  forces  were 
among  the  best  in  Africa.  However,  President  Kwame  Nkrumah 
(1960-66)  gradually  destroyed  this  heritage  by  transforming 
the  armed  forces  from  a  traditional  military  organization  into 
one  that  he  hoped  would  facilitate  the  growth  of  African  social- 
ism and  Pan-Africanism,  would  aid  in  the  fight  against  neocolo- 
nialism, and  would  help  implement  Nkrumah's  radical  foreign 
policy.  Nkrumah  also  Africanized  the  officer  corps  as  rapidly  as 
possible.  In  1966  the  armed  forces  moved  to  end  its  use  as  a 
political  tool  by  overthrowing  Nkrumah.  For  the  next  twenty- 
five  years,  the  military  repeatedly  intervened  in  the  political 
process  to  stabilize  Ghana  and  to  improve  the  country's  econ- 
omy. In  1992,  however,  Ghana's  military  regime  presided  over 
multiparty  elections,  which  the  regime  hoped  would  return  the 
country  to  a  parliamentary  system  of  government. 

The  Ghanaian  military,  with  a  personnel  strength  of  6,850  in 
1994,  helped  to  maintain  internal  security  and  to  preserve 
Ghana's  territorial  integrity.  Throughout  the  1980s,  the  gener- 
ally pro-Western  armed  forces  relied  on  a  variety  of  sources  for 
foreign  military  assistance,  including  the  United  States,  Italy, 
Libya,  and  the  Soviet  Union.  Organized  into  a  5,000-member 
army,  a  1,200-member  air  force,  and  a  1,000-member  navy,  the 
military  was  capable  of  performing  its  missions.  During  the 
1980s  and  early  1990s,  moreover,  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces 
and  some  police  personnel  participated  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  in  Cambodia,  Croatia,  Western 
Sahara,  Iraq/Kuwait,  Rwanda,  and  Lebanon.  Ghana  also  con- 


257 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


tributed  troops  to  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  Monitoring  Group  peacekeeping  force  in  Liberia. 

International  Security  Concerns 

As  of  the  mid-1990s,  there  was  no  external  threat  against 
Ghana;  however,  Ghana  has  experienced  periodic  tensions 
with  two  West  African  states,  Togo  and  Liberia,  which  at  the 
time  some  observers  believed  could  lead  to  armed  conflict. 
The  parties  involved  in  these  disputes  avoided  hostilities  by 
relying  on  diplomacy  rather  than  on  military  force  to  resolve 
their  problems. 

In  January  1976,  Ghanaian-Togolese  relations  deteriorated 
after  Togo  urged  a  readjustment  of  their  common  border  in 
Togo's  favor.  Ghana  rejected  this  demand,  citing  the  1956 
United  Nations  (UN)  referendum,  which  had  given  western 
Togoland's  population  the  choice  of  staying  in  Togo  or  of  join- 
ing Ghana.  Nevertheless,  in  March  1976,  the  Ghanaian  govern- 
ment banned  the  National  Liberation  Movement  for  Western 
Togoland  (NLMWT).  Later  that  month,  Ghanaian  security 
forces  arrested  ten  people  near  Togo's  border  and  charged 
them  with  subversion  for  contacting  Ghanaian  dissidents  in 
Togo.  Although  the  NLMWT  threatened  to  use  force  against 
Ghana  unless  the  UN  intervened  in  the  crisis,  it  failed  to 
launch  a  successful  guerrilla  war  against  Ghana. 

In  September  1982,  Ghana  closed  the  border  to  prevent 
Ghanaian  dissidents  who  lived  in  Togo  from  crossing  into 
Ghana.  Nevertheless,  tensions  between  the  two  countries  resur- 
faced after  Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John  Rawlings  seized  power 
in  Ghana  at  the  end  of  1981.  Rawlings  warned  the  Togolese 
against  allowing  Ghanaian  dissidents  to  use  Togo's  territory  as 
a  base  from  which  to  launch  attacks  against  Ghana.  In  early 
1984,  after  Ghana  had  reopened  the  border,  the  Togolese  gov- 
ernment calmed  Accra's  fears  by  threatening  to  arrest  any  Gha- 
naian exiles  who  held  meetings  in  Togo. 

In  1986  relations  with  Togo  again  deteriorated  after  Ghana- 
ian security  forces  captured  a  group  of  armed  dissidents  who 
had  crossed  the  border  from  Togo.  Ghana's  secretary  for  for- 
eign affairs  protested  the  use  of  neighboring  countries  as  bases 
for  subversive  activities  against  the  Rawlings  regime.  In  Septem- 
ber 1986,  Lome  claimed  that  Togolese  dissidents,  operating 
from  Ghana,  had  attempted  a  coup  against  the  government  of 
Togo's  president,  General  Gnassingbe  Eyadema.  As  a  result, 
Togo  temporarily  closed  the  border  with  Ghana  and  then 


258 


National  Security 


deported  233  Ghanaians.  In  January  1989,  relations  between 
the  two  countries  became  strained  again  when  Togo  expelled 
120  Ghanaians.  After  Togo  reopened  its  land,  air,  and  sea  bor- 
ders with  Ghana  in  October  1990,  relations  between  the  two 
countries  gradually  improved. 

On  January  30,  1993,  clashes  that  pitted  Togolese  security 
forces  loyal  to  Eyadema  against  several  opposition  groups 
prompted  approximately  55,000  refugees  to  flee  to  Ghana. 
Accra,  which  sided  with  Eyadema's  opponents,  responded  by 
placing  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces  on  full  alert,  ostensibly  to 
aid  the  refugees.  Rawlings  claimed  that  because  of  this  trouble, 
he  was  considering  a  recall  of  all  Ghanaian  troops  serving  on 
missions  abroad  for  the  UN  and  in  Liberia.  After  attackers 
stormed  Eyadema's  home  in  Lome  on  March  25,  1993,  the 
Togolese  government  closed  its  border  with  Ghana  and 
accused  the  Rawlings  regime  of  providing  a  safe  haven  for  the 
raiders. 

In  early  1994,  the  two  countries  almost  went  to  war  following 
yet  another  incident.  According  to  Togolese  authorities,  more 
than  100  armed  Togolese  crossed  the  border  from  Ghana  in 
early  January  to  assassinate  Eyadema  and  to  take  control  of  the 
government.  Togo  immediately  closed  its  border  with  Ghana, 
and  each  nation  then  accused  the  other's  armed  forces  of 
launching  cross-border  raids.  Although  tensions  eased  later  in 
the  year,  the  Ghanaian  minister  of  foreign  affairs  warned  of 
further  incidents  unless  Eyadema  introduced  basic  democratic 
reforms. 

Ghanaian-Liberian  relations  suffered  a  setback  in  September 
1989  over  rumors  that  Monrovia  planned  a  forceful  repatria- 
tion of  resident  Ghanaians  following  the  return  of  more  than 
400  Liberians  from  Ghana.  Although  Accra  denied  that  it  had 
deported  the  Liberians,  Monrovia  retaliated  by  expelling  350 
Ghanaians.  A  more  serious  problem  occurred  in  1990,  when  a 
rebel  force  known  as  the  National  Patriotic  Front  of  Liberia 
reportedly  seized  about  2,000  Ghanaians  living  in  Liberia. 
Many  Ghanaians  also  resented  the  presence  of  approximately 
6,000  Liberian  refugees  who  had  settled  in  a  camp  at 
Bruburam  near  Accra;  they  argued  that  Ghanaian  security 
forces  should  halt  the  influx  of  refugees  by  detaining  them  at 
the  border,  by  force  if  necessary. 

Despite  these  difficulties,  beginning  in  mid-1990  the  Ghana- 
ian government  deployed  three  battalions  of  troops  to  Liberia 
as  part  of  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 


259 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Monitoring  Group  (ECOMOG)  peacekeeping  force.  These 
troops  served  eight-month  tours.  In  late  1994,  about  1,000  Gha- 
naian troops  were  still  serving  in  Liberia  despite  the  govern- 
ment's growing  impatience  with  the  mission  and  the  lack  of 
progress  toward  a  settlement  of  the  conflict. 

The  ECOMOG  operation  was  but  one  in  a  long  list  of  inter- 
national peacekeeping  missions  in  which  Ghana  has  partici- 
pated. As  early  as  1978,  Ghana  contributed  soldiers  to  the  UN 
Interim  Force  in  Lebanon;  nearly  800  were  still  on  duty  there 
in  mid-1994.  Other  UN  missions  to  which  Ghana  has  contrib- 
uted include  the  Iraq-Kuwait  Observation  Mission  (1991-94); 
Cambodia,  where  more  than  1,000  Ghanaians  served  as  secu- 
rity personnel  during  UN-supervised  elections  in  1992-93; 
Somalia  (1994);  and  Rwanda,  where  nearly  850  Ghanaians 
troops  were  part  of  a  2,500-member  peacekeeping  force  in 
1994.  Assignments  with  ECOMOG  and  other  international 
peacekeeping  operations  were  avidly  sought  after,  in  part 
because  they  presented  opportunities  for  self-enrichment,  such 
as  black-market  dealings,  otherwise  unavailable  to  the  average 
soldier.  So  lucrative  were  UN  assignments  that  there  were 
reports  of  bribery  for  selecting  such  forces. 

Internal  Security  Concerns 

Ghana  has  a  long  history  of  internal  division,  rooted  in 
antagonisms  and  conflicts  among  the  country's  various  ethnic 
groups.  For  example,  the  Asante  (also  seen  as  Ashanti — see 
Glossary)  in  the  center  of  the  country  have  long  been  at  odds 
with  southern  peoples  such  as  the  Ga,  Fante,  Akwapim,  Nzema, 
and  Ewe.  In  the  seventeenth  century,  the  Asante  began  con- 
quering smaller  northern  states.  The  Asante  then  moved 
south,  where  they  came  into  contact  with  the  Fante.  Conflicts 
between  these  two  groups  ultimately  led  to  British  interven- 
tion. For  much  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  British  battled 
the  Asante  for  control  of  most  of  the  territory  that  became 
modern  Ghana  (see  Arrival  of  the  Europeans  and  The  Colo- 
nial Era:  British  Rule  of  the  Gold  Coast,  ch.  1).  Even  after  the 
country  gained  independence  as  the  new  nation  of  Ghana  in 
1957,  ethnic  divisions  continued  to  trouble  Ghanaian  society. 

Several  dissident  organizations,  however,  most  of  which  had 
been  created  by  exiles  during  the  1980s,  dedicated  themselves 
to  deemphasizing  ethnicity  and  to  facilitating  the  growth  of 
nationalism.  In  April  1982,  various  members  of  Ghana's 
banned  political  parties  established  the  Campaign  for  Democ- 


260 


National  Security 


racy  in  Ghana  and  opened  offices  in  Lagos  and  London.  This 
group  characterized  the  Rawlings  regime  as  "an  instrument  of 
terror"  and  urged  all  Ghanaians  to  employ  all  legitimate  means 
to  ensure  that  democracy  and  constitutional  order  were 
restored  in  the  country.  In  April  1984,  J. H.  Mensah,  who  had 
been  the  minister  of  finance  in  the  Kofi  Abrefa  Busia  govern- 
ment (1969-71),  formed  the  Ghana  Democratic  Movement, 
which  welcomed  all  citizens  who  believed  in  "the  restoration  of 
democracy  in  Ghana." 

In  the  precolonial  era,  political  opposition  was  tolerated 
only  up  to  point,  after  which  retribution  was  likely.  During  the 
colonial  period  in  the  Gold  Coast,  later  renamed  Ghana,  the 
British  jailed  outspoken  nationalists.  Since  independence, 
Ghana's  security  policy  toward  dissidents  and  political  oppo- 
nents has  been  harsh.  During  Kwame  Nkrumah's  presidency 
(1960-66),  security  personnel  permeated  all  levels  of  Ghanaian 
society.  Additionally,  the  Ghana  Young  Pioneers,  created  in 
June  1960,  regularly  reported  all  suspected  dissident  activities 
to  the  authorities.  Nkrumah  also  encouraged  rivalries  among 
senior  officials  to  discourage  them  from  taking  united  action 
against  him.  Individuals  who  fell  afoul  of  Nkrumah  usually 
ended  up  in  jail;  more  dangerous  people  received  long-term 
sentences  in  the  maximum  security  prison  at  Nsawam. 

Since  the  downfall  of  Nkrumah,  all  governments  except  that 
of  Hilla  Limann  (1979-81)  have  dealt  harshly  with  any  individ- 
ual or  organization  deemed  to  be  a  threat  to  the  established 
political  order.  Informants  watched  military  personnel,  mem- 
bers of  political  parties,  academics,  students,  and  ordinary  citi- 
zens for  signs  of  disloyalty,  antigovernment  activity,  or  coup- 
plotting.  During  the  early  years  of  the  second  Rawlings  regime 
in  the  1980s,  the  authorities  also  sought  to  prevent  the  emer- 
gence of  prodemocracy  groups.  In  mid-1987,  for  example,  the 
police  arrested  members  of  the  New  Democratic  Movement 
(NDM)  and  the  Kwame  Nkrumah  Revolutionary  Guards 
(KNRG),  supposedly  for  plotting  to  overthrow  the  govern- 
ment. Gradually,  however,  Western  and  domestic  pressures  per- 
suaded the  Ghanaian  government  to  permit  political 
competition  and  to  hold  multiparty  elections  in  late  1992. 

The  Armed  Forces  in  National  Life 

Ghana  has  a  rich  and  varied  military  history.  The  military 
traditions  of  the  Asante  and  several  other  Ghanaian  peoples 
dominated  the  precolonial  era.  During  the  British  period,  the 


261 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

military  consisted  of  a  modest  army  organized  along  infantry 
lines.  At  independence,  Nkrumah  expanded  the  armed  forces 
to  enhance  the  country's  national  prestige.  The  army  grew  in 
size  and  complexity,  and  the  government  established  a  separate 
air  force  and  navy.  This  growth  exceeded  Ghana's  national 
security  requirements,  however,  and  imposed  an  economic 
burden  on  the  new  state.  In  the  decades  since  independence, 
Ghana  has  continued  to  maintain  a  comparatively  large  mili- 
tary force.  By  the  early  1990s,  it  had  become  clear  that  the  gov- 
ernment would  have  to  respond  to  popular  demands  for 
greater  economic  growth  by  reducing  the  size  of  the  military 
establishment. 

The  Armed  Forces  in  the  Past 

The  armed  forces  have  traditionally  played  a  significant  role 
in  Ghanaian  society.  The  most  important  factors  associated 
with  the  growth  of  the  military's  role  in  national  life  include 
the  emergence  of  Asante  militarism,  the  British  conquest,  and 
the  political  activities  of  the  armed  forces  following  indepen- 
dence. 

The  Asante  Wars 

Historically,  the  Asante,  who  are  members  of  the  Twi-speak- 
ing  branch  of  the  Akan  people,  have  exercised  considerable 
influence  in  the  region.  The  groups  that  constituted  the  core 
of  the  Asante  confederacy  moved  north  and  settled  in  the  vicin- 
ity of  Lake  Bosumtwi.  Prior  to  the  mid-seventeenth  century, 
several  Asante  leaders,  one  of  them  Oti  Akenten  (r.  ca.  1630- 
60),  embarked  on  a  program  of  military  expansion  that 
enabled  the  Asante  to  dominate  surrounding  groups,  establish 
the  most  powerful  state  in  the  central  forest  zone,  and  form  an 
alliance  with  neighboring  states  known  as  the  Asante  confeder- 
ation. 

In  the  late  seventeenth  century,  Osei  Tutu  (d.  1712  or  1 71 7) 
became  asantehene  (king  of  Asante).  During  his  reign,  the 
Asante  confederation  destroyed  the  influence  of  Denkyira, 
which  had  been  the  strongest  state  in  the  coastal  hinterland 
and  which  had  been  exacting  tribute  from  most  of  the  other 
Akan  groups  in  the  central  forest.  Asante  authorities  then 
moved  the  confederation's  capital  to  Kumasi  and  continued 
their  policy  of  military  expansion.  During  one  southern  expe- 
dition, rebels  ambushed  and  killed  Osei  Tutu  and  most  of  his 
generals.  The  Asante  confederation,  which  allowed  newly  con- 


262 


National  Security 


quered  territories  to  retain  their  customs  and  chiefs,  survived 
this  catastrophe  and  continued  to  expand  its  boundaries,  in 
the  process  transforming  itself  into  an  empire.  Under  succeed- 
ing leaders,  Asante  armies  extended  the  empire's  frontier 
southward.  By  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the 
Asante  governed  a  territory  as  large  as  modern-day  Ghana  and 
were  challenging  the  Fante  states  for  control  of  the  coast, 
where  European  traders  had  established  a  network  of  posts  and 
fortifications. 

The  rapid  growth  of  the  Asante  empire  aroused  the  suspi- 
cions of  the  Fante,  who  believed  that  the  Asante  sought  to  sub- 
jugate the  coastal  states.  Asante-Fante  relations,  therefore, 
remained  hostile  for  most  of  the  second  half  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  Specific  problems  between  the  two  Akan  states 
included  the  Fante  refusal  to  allow  Asante  traders  direct  access 
to  the  coast;  a  Fante  law  that  prohibited  the  sale  of  firearms 
and  ammunition  to  the  Asante  army;  Fante  support  of  Denk- 
yira,  Akyem,  and  other  states  in  their  revolts  against  Asante 
authority;  and  the  Fante  practice  of  granting  sanctuary  to  refu- 
gees from  the  Asante  empire.  To  resolve  these  problems,  the 
Asante  launched  three  successful  military  expeditions  (in  1807, 
1811,  and  1816)  against  the  Fante  and  by  1820  had  become  the 
strongest  power  in  West  Africa. 

The  Asante  army,  which  achieved  these  and  numerous  other 
victories,  relied  on  troops  mobilized  for  specific  campaigns 
rather  than  on  a  standing,  professional  force.  Evasion  of  mili- 
tary service  was  punishable  by  death.  The  army,  which  lacked 
cavalry,  possessed  superior  infantry  comprising  musketeers, 
bowmen,  and  spearsmen.  The  armed  force  also  included 
scouts  (akwansrafo);  an  advance  guard  (twafo);  a  main  force 
(adonten);  the  king's  personal  bodyguard  (gyase);  a  rear  guard 
(kyidom);  and  two  wings,  the  left  (benkum)  and  the  right  {nifa). 
Additionally,  the  Asante  army  had  a  medical  corps  (esumank- 
wafo)  that  treated  the  army's  wounded  and  removed  the  dead 
from  the  battlefield. 

The  Asante  army's  success  against  the  Fante,  coupled  with 
the  Asante's  determination  to  preserve  their  empire,  posed  a 
threat  to  the  British,  who  also  wanted  to  control  the  coast  for 
strategic,  political,  and  economic  reasons.  Britain's  commit- 
ment to  stopping  the  slave  trade  made  it  impossible  for  the 
British  to  maintain  good  relations  with  the  Asante,  who,  by 
1820,  had  become  the  main  source  of  slaves  on  the  coast.  Many 
British  policy  makers  believed,  moreover,  that  it  was  their  duty 


263 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

to  promote  Christianity  and  Western  civilization.  Some  British 
merchants  also  believed  that  if  Asante  power  could  be 
destroyed,  a  vast  market  would  be  opened  to  them. 

Given  the  differences  between  the  British  and  the  Asante,  a 
military  clash  between  them  was  inevitable.  After  the  Asante 
executed  a  Fante  soldier  who  served  in  a  British  garrison  for 
insulting  their  king,  the  British  launched  a  military  expedition 
against  a  10,000-member  Asante  force  near  the  village  of  Bon- 
saso.  The  Asante  not  only  outnumbered  the  British  but  also 
used  superior  tactics.  The  fighting,  which  began  on  January  22, 
1824,  initially  favored  the  Asante,  who  encircled  the  British 
force  and  killed  Governor  Charles  MacCarthy.  Eventually,  how- 
ever, the  British  drove  the  Asante  back  to  Kumasi. 

After  reorganizing  and  re-equipping,  the  Asante  in  1826 
again  invaded  the  coast,  attacking  the  British  and  their  allies. 
During  the  fighting  on  the  open  plains  of  Accra,  the  British 
used  Congreve  rockets,  which  frightened  Asante  warriors  who 
believed  the  enemy  was  using  thunder  and  lightning  against 
them.  The  Asante  panicked  and  fled  to  Kumasi.  According  to  a 
peace  treaty  concluded  in  1831,  the  asantehene  recognized  the 
independence  of  the  coastal  states  and  agreed  to  refer  all 
future  disputes  to  the  British  for  adjudication.  In  exchange,  the 
coastal  states  promised  to  allow  the  Asante  to  engage  in  legal 
trade  on  the  coast  and  to  respect  the  asantehene.  During  much 
of  the  following  two  decades,  Captain  George  Maclean,  presi- 
dent of  a  local  council  of  British  merchants,  used  tact  and 
diplomacy  to  enforce  the  peace  treaty. 

After  the  British  government  resumed  responsibility  for  the 
administration  of  the  coastal  forts  in  1843,  relations  with  the 
Asante  gradually  deteriorated.  In  addition  to  assaults  on  Asante 
traders,  the  asantehene  believed  that  the  British  and  their  Fante 
allies  no  longer  treated  him  with  respect.  When  British  Gover- 
nor Richard  Pine  refused  to  return  an  Asante  chief  and  a  run- 
away slave  to  the  asantehene,  the  Asante  prepared  for  war.  In 
April  1863,  they  invaded  the  coast  and  burned  thirty  villages. 
Pine  responded  by  deploying  six  companies  along  the  Pra 
River,  the  border  between  states  allied  with  the  British  and  the 
Asante.  The  deployed  force  built  a  network  of  stockades  and  a 
bridge,  but  it  returned  home  without  engaging  the  enemy  after 
inexplicably  having  lost  its  guns,  ammunition,  and  supplies. 

The  Second  Asante  War  (1873-74)  began  as  a  result  of  the 
asantehene^  attempt  to  preserve  his  empire's  last  trade  outlet  to 
the  sea  at  the  old  coastal  fort  of  Elmina,  which  had  come  into 


264 


Ghanaian  infantry  depart  Accra  for  a  peacekeeping 

mission  in  Liberia. 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 

British  possession  in  1872.  In  early  1873,  a  12,000-member 
Asante  army  crossed  the  Pra  River  and  invaded  the  coastal  area 
but  suffered  a  defeat  at  Elmina.  The  British  government  then 
appointed  Major  General  Garnet  Wolseley  administrator  and 
commander  in  chief  and  ordered  him  to  drive  the  Asante  from 
the  coastal  region.  In  December  1873,  Wolseley's  African  levies 
were  reinforced  by  the  arrival  of  several  British  units. 

Approximately  one  month  later,  Wolseley  sent  an  advance 
party  across  the  Pra,  warning  the  asantehene  that  he  intended  to 
begin  hostilities.  Wolseley,  however,  also  offered  an  armistice. 
When  negotiations  failed,  both  sides  prepared  for  war. 

The  most  significant  battle  of  the  Second  Asante  War 
occurred  at  Amoafo,  near  the  village  of  Bekwai.  Although  the 
Asante  performed  admirably,  superior  weapons  allowed  the 
British  to  carry  the  day.  Asante  losses  were  unknown;  the  Brit- 
ish lost  four  men  and  had  194  wounded.  In  the  following  days, 
Wolseley  captured  Bekwai  and  then  Kumasi.  On  March  14, 
1874,  the  two  sides  signed  the  Treaty  of  Fomena,  which 
required  the  Asante  to  pay  an  indemnity  of  50,000  ounces  of 
gold,  to  renounce  claims  to  Elmina  and  to  all  payments  from 
the  British  for  the  use  of  forts,  and  to  terminate  their  alliances 


265 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

with  several  other  states,  including  Denkyira  and  Akyem.  Addi- 
tionally, the  asantehene  agreed  to  withdraw  his  troops  from  the 
coast,  to  keep  the  trade  routes  open,  and  to  halt  the  practice  of 
human  sacrifice. 

The  British  victory  and  the  Treaty  of  Fomena  ended  the 
Asante  dream  of  bringing  the  coastal  states  under  their  power. 
The  northern  states  of  Brong,  Gonja,  and  Dagomba  also  took 
advantage  of  the  Asante  defeat  by  asserting  their  indepen- 
dence. The  Asante  empire  was  near  collapse.  In  1896  the  Brit- 
ish declared  a  protectorate  over  Asante  and  exiled  the 
asantehene,  Prempeh,  his  immediate  family,  and  several  close 
advisers  to  the  Seychelles  Islands. 

The  last  Anglo-Asante  war  occurred  in  1899-1900,  when  the 
British  twice  tried  to  take  possession  of  the  asantehene'^  Golden 
Stool,  symbol  of  Asante  power  and  independence.  In  April 
1900,  the  Asante  reacted  to  these  attempts  by  launching  an 
armed  rebellion  and  by  laying  siege  to  the  Kumasi  fort,  where 
the  British  governor  and  his  party  had  sought  refuge.  The  Brit- 
ish eventually  defeated  the  Asante,  both  capturing  and  exiling 
the  rebellion's  leader,  Yaa  Asantewaa,  and  fifteen  of  her  closest 
advisers.  The  conclusion  of  the  last  Anglo-Asante  war  resulted 
in  the  formal  annexation  of  the  Asante  empire  as  a  British  pos- 
session. 

World  War  I 

After  establishing  supremacy  in  the  Gold  Coast,  the  British 
created  the  Gold  Coast  Regiment  as  a  component  of  the  West 
African  Frontier  Force  (WAFF),  which  kept  peace  throughout 
the  territories  of  the  Gold  Coast,  Nigeria,  Sierra  Leone,  and 
the  Gambia.  In  1928  the  WAFF  became  the  Royal  West  African 
Frontier  Force  (RWAFF).  British  officers  and  noncommis- 
sioned officers  organized,  trained,  and  equipped  the  Gold 
Coast  Regiment.  For  much  of  the  colonial  period,  the  British 
recruited  African  enlisted  personnel  only  from  ethnic  groups 
in  the  Northern  Territories  Protectorate,  the  northern  third  of 
the  colony  (see  fig.  3).  Eventually,  the  Gold  Coast  Regiment 
accepted  a  few  African  officers  along  with  an  increasing  num- 
ber of  African  noncommissioned  officers  from  the  south.  Nev- 
ertheless, the  north-south  division  continued  to  characterize 
the  Gold  Coast  Regiment. 

On  July  31,  1914,  four  days  before  the  British  declaration  of 
war  on  Germany,  Accra  mobilized  its  military  forces.  The  Gold 
Coast  Regiment  included  thirty-eight  British  officers,  eleven 


266 


National  Security 


British  warrant  or  noncommissioned  officers,  1,584  Africans, 
(including  124  carriers  for  guns  and  machine  guns),  and  about 
300  reservists.  Additionally,  the  four  Volunteer  Corps  (Gold 
Coast  Volunteers,  Gold  Coast  Railway  Volunteers,  Gold  Coast 
Mines  Volunteers,  and  Ashanti  Mines  Volunteers)  fielded  about 
900  men.  These  forces  participated  in  the  campaigns  in  Togo, 
Cameroon,  and  East  Africa. 

Deployment  of  the  country's  armed  forces  required  the 
reduction  of  the  British  colonial  establishment  by  30  percent 
between  1914  and  1917  and  the  closure  of  several  military 
installations  in  the  Northern  Territories.  These  actions  per- 
suaded many  Gold  Coast  residents  that  British  colonial  rule  was 
about  to  end.  As  a  result,  a  series  of  disorders  and  protests 
against  British  colonial  rule  occurred  throughout  the  country. 

During  August  and  September  1914,  for  example,  riots 
broke  out  in  Central  Province  and  Ashanti,  followed  three 
years  later  by  unrest  at  Old  Nigo.  The  wartime  weakening  of 
the  administrative  structure  in  the  Northern  Territories  also 
fueled  opposition  to  chiefs  who  used  their  positions  to  exploit 
the  people  they  ruled,  to  encourage  military  recruitment,  or  to 
advance  the  cause  of  British  colonial  rule.  Disturbances  among 
the  Frafra  at  Bongo  in  April  1916  and  in  Gonja  in  March  1917 
prompted  the  authorities  to  deploy  a  detachment  of  troops  to 
the  Northern  Territories  to  preserve  law  and  order. 

World  WarU 

Although  many  of  the  more  radical  Pan-Africanists  and 
Marxist-Leninists  hoped  to  enlist  northern  black  troops  and  ex- 
servicemen  in  their  anticolonial  struggle,  there  was  little  unrest 
during  the  interwar  period.  During  World  War  II,  approxi- 
mately 65,000  Ghanaians  served  in  the  RWAFF.  The  Gold  Coast 
Regiment  participated  in  campaigns  in  East  Africa  and  Burma 
and  in  maneuvers  in  the  Gambia. 

Military  service,  particularly  overseas,  enhanced  the  political 
and  economic  understanding  of  many  individual  soldiers,  a 
development  that  facilitated  the  growth  of  postwar  national- 
ism. Military  service,  however,  also  underscored  cultural  and 
ethnic  differences  among  Ghanaians.  Many  Asante  and  most 
southerners  looked  down  upon  northerners,  who  made  up  the 
majority  of  the  Gold  Coast  Regiment.  These  divisions  carried 
over  into  postwar  politics  and,  according  to  some  observers, 
have  continued  to  prevent  the  development  of  a  strong  sense 
of  national  identity  to  the  present  day. 


267 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

The  Gold  Coast  also  played  a  significant  role  in  the  Allied 
war  effort.  On  June  27,  1942,  the  United  States  Army  activated 
the  Air  Transport  Command  in  Cairo  under  Brigadier  General 
Shepler  W.  Fitzgerald.  Ten  days  later,  Fitzgerald  moved  his 
headquarters  to  Accra  and  organized  the  Africa-Middle  East 
Wing.  In  late  1942,  the  United  States  Army  expanded  its  pres- 
ence in  Accra  by  activating  the  Twelfth  Ferrying  Group  Head- 
quarters, the  Forty-first  Ferrying  Squadron,  and  the  Forty- 
second  Ferrying  Squadron.  The  Twelfth  Ferrying  Group, 
which  was  part  of  a  transportation  network  reaching  from  the 
United  States,  via  Africa,  to  the  China-Burma-India  theater  of 
operations,  ensured  the  movement  of  men  and  materiel 
through  Senegal,  Ghana,  and  Chad. 

In  contrast  with  the  post-World  War  I  era,  Ghanaian  veterans 
engaged  in  widespread  political  activities  after  World  War  II.  In 
1946  some  former  soldiers  established  the  Gold  Coast  Ex-Ser- 
vicemen's Union,  which  sought  to  improve  economic  condi- 
tions and  to  increase  employment  for  veterans.  During  a 
February  1948  union-sponsored  march,  police  killed  two  dem- 
onstrators and  wounded  several  others.  Unrest  quickly  spread 
throughout  the  country.  Eventually,  the  union  joined  the 
United  Gold  Coast  Convention  and  then  became  part  of  the 
Convention  People's  Party  (CPP),  which  worked  for  indepen- 
dence under  Nkrumah's  leadership.  After  independence,  the 
government  passed  the  Ghana  Legion  Act,  which  outlawed  ex- 
servicemen's  organizations  and  which  created  instead  a 
national  Ghana  Legion.  Although  it  supposedly  represented  all 
Ghanaians,  the  establishment  of  the  Ghana  Legion  marked  the 
end  of  independent  political  action  by  ex-servicemen. 

The  Development  of  the  Modern  Army 

After  independence,  Ghana  opted  out  of  the  RWAFF. 
According  to  Nkrumah,  this  action  was  necessary  because  the 
RWAFF  was  "one  of  the  trappings  of  colonialism."  The  Ghana- 
ian army  had  grown  in  size  and  complexity,  moreover,  and  the 
government  created  a  separate  air  force  and  navy.  The  mili- 
tary's ostensible  mission  was  to  aid  the  national  police  in  main- 
taining internal  security;  however,  Nkrumah  wanted  to  use  the 
armed  forces  to  buttress  his  foreign  policy  and  Pan-Africanist 
goals. 

British  officers  who  served  in  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces 
thwarted  Nkrumah's  plans  to  use  the  military  as  a  political  tool. 
As  a  result,  in  September  1961  Nkrumah  dismissed  all  British 


268 


National  Security 


military  personnel  and  ordered  the  Africanization  of  the 
armed  forces.  By  removing  the  British  from  command  posi- 
tions, Nkrumah  destroyed  an  apolitical  safeguard  and  exposed 
the  military  to  political  manipulation.  However,  much  of  the 
British-trained  Ghanaian  officer  corps  resisted  Nkrumah's 
attempts  to  indoctrinate  them  with  the  political  ideology  of  the 
CPP.  Moreover,  the  officer  corps  shunned  the  political  commis- 
sars whom  Nkrumah  had  introduced  into  all  units. 

To  break  the  power  of  the  traditional  Ghanaian  military 
establishment,  Nkrumah  created  his  own  private  army  in  viola- 
tion of  the  country's  constitution.  The  Soviet  Union  supported 
this  effort  by  providing  military  advisers  and  weaponry.  After 
an  unsuccessful  attempt  on  his  life,  Nkrumah  ordered  the 
expansion  of  the  presidential  guard  company  to  regimental 
strength.  On  the  recommendation  of  Soviet  security  advisers, 
Nkrumah  also  added  a  civilian  unit  to  the  bodyguard.  The  mili- 
tary and  civilian  wings  formed  the  Presidential  Guard  Depart- 
ment.  In  1963  Nkrumah  changed  the  name  of  this 
organization  to  the  Presidential  Detail  Department.  By  Febru- 
ary 1966,  this  unit's  First  Guard  Regiment  included  a  1,500- 
member  battalion,  and  the  Second  Guard  Regiment  was  in  the 
process  of  being  formed  and  trained  by  Soviet  advisers. 

The  Presidential  Detail  Department  also  supervised  secret 
storage  depots  and  training  camps  for  Nkrumah's  constantly 
expanding  private  army.  These  facilities  were  located  at  Elmina 
Castle,  Akosombo,  Afianya,  and  Okponglo.  After  Nkrumah's 
downfall,  Ghanaian  authorities  discovered  an  array  of  weapons, 
including  heavy  machine  guns,  mortars,  and  artillery,  at  these 
sites.  Anti-Nkrumah  elements  insisted  that  such  weaponry, 
which  exceeded  the  needs  of  the  Presidential  Detail  Depart- 
ment, was  destined  for  Nkrumah's  private  army. 

Apart  from  trying  to  create  a  parallel  military  establishment, 
Nkrumah  also  established  a  multifaceted  intelligence  appara- 
tus. In  early  1963,  one  of  Nkrumah's  closest  supporters, 
Ambrose  Yankey,  established  the  Special  Intelligence  Unit  to 
monitor  the  activities  of  antigovernment  individuals  and 
groups.  By  1966  this  unit  included  281  people,  all  of  whom 
reportedly  received  training  from  Soviet  and  other  communist 
advisers.  Another  intelligence  unit,  Department  III,  Military 
Intelligence,  was  not  part  of  the  Ministry  of  Defence.  Instead, 
its  task  was  to  check  independently  on  the  loyalty  of  the  regular 
armed  forces.  Department  III,  Military  Intelligence,  main- 
tained an  interrogation  center  at  Burma  Gamp.  The  Bureau 


269 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

for  Technical  Assistance  conducted  espionage  in  other  African 
countries.  Additionally,  on  October  1,  1965,  the  bureau  estab- 
lished an  all-African  intelligence  service  known  as  the  Special 
African  Service  (also  known  as  the  Technical  Unit),  which  was 
designed  to  penetrate  the  intelligence  services  of  other  African 
countries.  By  1966  this  organization  had  grown  from  forty  to 
sixty-seven  personnel. 

The  Military  and  the  Government 

The  National  Liberation  Council,  1966-69 

The  officer  corps  of  the  regular  armed  forces  viewed  the 
activities  of  the  Nkrumah  regime  with  increasing  alarm.  As  a 
result,  on  February  24,  1966,  a  small  number  of  army  officers 
and  senior  police  officials,  led  by  Colonel  E.K.  Kotoka,  com- 
mander of  the  Second  Army  Brigade  at  Kumasi;  Major  A.A. 
Afrifa,  staff  officer  in  charge  of  army  training  and  operations; 
Lieutenant  General  (retired)  J.A.  Ankra;  andJ.W.K.  Harlley, 
the  police  inspector  general,  successfully  launched  a  coup 
d'etat  against  the  Nkrumah  regime.  The  new  government, 
known  as  the  National  Liberation  Council  (NLC),  justified  its 
action  by  citing  Nkrumah's  abuse  of  power,  widespread  politi- 
cal repression,  sharp  economic  decline,  and  rampant  corrup- 
tion. 

On  April  17,  1967,  a  group  of  junior  officers  of  the  army 
reconnaissance  squadron  based  at  Ho  in  the  Volta  region 
launched  a  countercoup;  however,  intervention  by  other  mili- 
tary units  and  the  lack  of  a  coherent  plan  on  the  part  of  the 
mutineers  saved  the  NLC.  After  an  investigation,  the  two  young 
lieutenants  who  commanded  the  mutiny  were  tried  by  a  mili- 
tary court,  convicted,  and  executed.  The  courts  also  passed 
lengthy  prison  sentences  on  twenty-six  of  the  reconnaissance 
squadron's  noncommissioned  officers  who  supported  the  coup 
attempt. 

Pro-Nkrumah  elements  also  plotted  against  the  NLC.  In  late 
1968,  the  authorities  arrested  Air  Marshal  M.A.  Otu,  who  had 
succeeded  Kotoka  as  general  officer  commanding  the  armed 
forces  but  not  as  an  NLC  member,  and  his  aide,  a  navy  lieuten- 
ant, for  alleged  subversive  activity.  A  military  court  charged 
both  men  with  plans  to  overthrow  the  NLC  and  to  return  Nkru- 
mah to  power,  but  eventually  the  two  were  acquitted. 

There  were  no  further  incidents  or  threats  to  the  NLC.  After 
a  civilian  government  came  to  power  in  October  1969,  the 


270 


National  Security 


armed  forces  reverted  to  their  traditional  roles  of  maintaining 
internal  security  and  safeguarding  territorial  integrity. 

The  Acheampong  Regime,  1972-78 

On  January  13,  1972,  the  military  seized  control  of  the  gov- 
ernment for  the  second  time  under  the  leadership  of  Lieuten- 
ant Colonel  I.K.  Acheampong.  The  army  justified  its  action  by 
accusing  the  civilian  government,  headed  by  Busia,  of  having 
failed  to  resolve  the  various  problems  confronting  the  Ghana- 
ian armed  forces. 

The  origin  of  the  army's  disaffection  lay  in  the  1971-72  aus- 
terity budget,  according  to  which  defense  expenditures  were 
too  large  for  a  country  as  small  as  Ghana.  The  subsequent 
reductions  affected  maintenance  and  materials.  Reductions 
also  increased  the  difficulties  facing  younger  army  officers.  By 
the  early  1970s,  the  lack  of  funds  had  forced  the  Ghana  Mili- 
tary Academy  to  reduce  the  size  of  its  annual  class  from  about 
120  to  twenty-five  cadets. 

Many  senior  army  officers  had  also  complained  that  the 
1966  coup  had  interrupted  the  normal  promotion  cycle.  They 
maintained  that  officers  who  supported  Kotoka  received 
quicker  promotions,  whereas  those  whose  loyalty  was  in  ques- 
tion were  held  back.  Ewe  officers,  who  had  been  shunted  aside 
since  the  end  of  the  NLC  regime,  believed  that  Acheampong 
would  restore  an  equitable  ethnic  balance  to  the  officer  corps. 
Lastly,  the  army  objected  to  the  Busia  government's  decision  to 
broaden  the  army's  mission  to  include  such  nonmilitary  func- 
tions as  engaging  in  anti-smuggling  patrols,  supporting  anti- 
cholera  drives,  facilitating  flood  relief  work,  and  participating 
in  reconstruction  projects. 

To  rule  Ghana,  Acheampong  established  the  National 
Redemption  Council  (NRC)  and  acted  as  its  chairman.  Ini- 
tially, the  NRC  consisted  of  six  army  officers  and  one  civilian; 
however,  Acheampong  eventually  broadened  the  NRC's  mem- 
bership to  include  officers  from  all  the  services.  Newcomers 
included  the  air  force  and  navy  commanders  and  the  inspector 
general  of  the  police.  Acheampong  dropped  the  two  lower- 
ranking  army  officers  and  the  civilian  member.  The  NRC 
assumed  legislative  and  executive  powers  while  the  NRC  chair- 
man became  head  of  state  and  commander  in  chief.  The  NRC 
chairman  also  was  responsible  for  all  NRC  appointments  and 
removals  with  the  advice  of  not  less  than  two-thirds  of  the  NRC 


271 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

members.  The  NRC  could  remove  the  chairman  by  a  unani- 
mous decision. 

The  NRC  appointed  nine  military  officers  who  ranked  from 
major  to  colonel  to  serve  as  regional  commissioners.  Customar- 
ily, these  commissioners  worked  in  their  traditional  homelands. 
The  NRC  and  the  regional  commissioners  constituted  the 
Executive  Council.  The  NRC  and  the  Executive  Council,  which 
together  included  about  thirty  senior  military  officers,  ruled 
Ghana.  The  NRC  militarized  Ghanaian  society,  moreover,  by 
appointing  senior  military  officers  to  positions  in  all  major 
departments,  regional  bodies,  state  corporations,  and  public 
boards.  Additionally,  Acheampong  wanted  to  change  the  con- 
stitution to  end  party  politics  and  to  create  a  union  govern- 
ment composed  of  civilians,  military  personnel,  and  police. 
Such  a  system,  Acheampong  believed,  would  create  national 
unity,  end  tribalism,  and  facilitate  economic  development. 

The  failure  to  achieve  these  goals  and  the  1975  decision  to 
transform  the  NRC  into  the  Supreme  Military  Council  (SMC) 
marked  the  beginning  of  Acheampong's  downfall.  The  govern- 
ment maintained  that  the  SMC  would  restore  the  military  hier- 
archy that  the  1972  coup  had  destroyed.  Over  the  next  two 
years,  the  Acheampong  regime  gradually  lost  popular  support 
because  of  growing  corruption,  economic  problems,  and 
clashes  between  the  SMC  and  the  general  public,  culminating 
in  violent  disturbances  during  the  1978  referendum  on  union 
government. 

The  Akuffo  Coup,  1 978 

As  public  hostility  toward  the  SMC  increased,  Ghana  became 
increasingly  ungovernable.  On  July  5,  1978,  junior  officers  on 
the  Military  Advisory  Committee  persuaded  senior  officers,  led 
by  Lieutenant  General  Frederick  W.K.  Akuffo,  to  force 
Acheampong  to  resign.  The  creation  of  what  was  termed  SMC 
II,  however,  failed  to  restore  public  confidence  in  the  govern- 
ment, largely  because  Akuffo  refused  to  abandon  the  idea  of  a 
union  government  without  party  politics.  As  a  result,  there 
were  about  eighty  strikes  in  a  four-month  period  to  protest  the 
regime's  economic  policies.  In  November  1978,  when  junior 
civil  servants  went  on  strike,  the  regime  declared  a  state  of 
emergency  and  dismissed  more  than  1,000  public  employees. 
Akuffo  eventually  succumbed  to  this  pressure  by  announcing 
that  the  ban  on  political  parties  would  be  lifted  on  January  1, 
1979,  and  that  free  elections  would  be  held. 


272 


National  Security 


The  1979  Coup  and  the  First  Rawlings  Government 

Ghana's  third  military  coup  was  planned  by  a  small  group  of 
disgruntled  officers.  On  May  15,  1979,  less  than  five  weeks 
before  the  national  elections,  Flight  Lieutenant  Jerry  John 
Rawlings  and  several  members  of  the  air  force  (junior  officers 
and  corporals)  unsuccessfully  tried  to  overthrow  the  govern- 
ment. During  the  court  martial  of  the  coup's  seven  plotters, 
Rawlings  justified  his  action  by  claiming  that  official  corruption 
had  eroded  public  confidence  in  the  government  and  had  tar- 
nished the  image  of  the  armed  forces.  Rawlings  also  charged 
that  Syrian  and  Lebanese  businessmen  living  in  Ghana  had 
gained  control  of  the  country's  economy  at  the  expense  of  the 
African  majority. 

On  the  night  of  June  4,  1979,  a  group  of  junior  officers  and 
enlisted  personnel  of  the  Fifth  Battalion  and  the  Reconnais- 
sance Regiment  in  Burma  Camp  freed  Rawlings  and  staged  a 
coup.  These  individuals  then  formed  the  Armed  Forces  Revo- 
lutionary Council  (AFRC)  to  rule  the  country.  The  AFRC 
included  a  cross  section  of  ranks  from  private  and  lance  corpo- 
ral to  staff  sergeant,  airman,  lieutenant,  and  naval  commander. 
Although  the  scheduled  elections  occurred  as  planned  on  June 
18,  1979,  the  AFRC  retained  power  until  September  24,  1979, 
when  President  Hilla  Limann  and  the  People's  National  Party 
(PNP)  assumed  control  of  the  government. 

Meanwhile,  the  AFRC  purged  the  senior  ranks  of  the  armed 
forces  and  executed  eight  officers,  three  of  whom  had  been 
former  heads  of  state  (Acheampong,  Akuffo,  and  Afrifa).  From 
July  to  September  1979,  special  courts  held  hearings  and  sen- 
tenced 155  military  officers,  former  officials,  and  wealthy  busi- 
nessmen to  prison  terms  ranging  from  six  months  to  ninety-five 
years.  Additionally,  the  AFRC  collected  back  taxes  from  numer- 
ous government  officials  and  threatened  to  seize  the  assets  of 
many  others  unless  they  refunded  money  to  the  state  that  they 
had  allegedly  embezzled  or  stolen.  The  AFRC  also  charged 
hundreds  of  military  officers  with  corruption  and  sentenced 
them  to  long  prison  terms.  Many  civil  servants  fell  victim  to  the 
purge  and  lost  their  jobs  as  well. 

The  1981  Coup  and  the  Second  Rawlings  Government 

The  combination  of  official  corruption,  Rawlings's  contin- 
ued political  activities,  and  deteriorating  economic  conditions 
doomed  the  Limann  government.  On  December  31,  1981, 


273 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Rawlings,  supported  by  lower-ranking  soldiers,  most  of  whom 
served  in  the  Reconnaissance  Regiment,  seized  power.  Rawl- 
ings then  established  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council 
(PNDC)  to  rule  the  country,  dissolved  parliament,  and  banned 
all  political  parties.  On  January  21,  1982,  Rawlings  appointed  a 
sixteen-member  civilian  government  with  a  cabinet  of  secretar- 
ies and  told  them  to  "serve  the  people  sacrificially."  The  PNDC 
also  assumed  control  of  the  Ministry  of  Defence.  The  Rawlings 
regime  further  consolidated  its  power  by  promulgating  PNDC 
Law  42,  which  suspended  the  constitution  and  gave  the  govern- 
ment wide  powers  over  Ghanaian  citizens. 

Shortly  after  seizing  power,  Rawlings  took  action  against 
individuals  who  had  allegedly  committed  crimes  against  the 
Ghanaian  people.  In  January  1982,  for  example,  the  PNDC 
ordered  former  members  of  the  banned  PNP  and  other  unde- 
sirable elements  to  report  to  the  nearest  police  station  or  army 
barracks.  The  authorities  detained  some  of  these  individuals 
and  released  others  after  registering  their  names.  The  police 
and  army  continued  this  roundup  by  arresting  allegedly  cor- 
rupt individuals  who  had  served  in  the  Limann  government, 
former  members  of  parliament,  businessmen  suspected  of  trad- 
ing on  the  black  market,  and  alleged  coup  plotters.  On  June 
30,  1982,  one  or  more  members  of  the  PNDC  and  their  accom- 
plices abducted  and  then  murdered  three  High  Court  of  Jus- 
tice judges  and  the  personnel  director  of  the  Ghana  Industrial 
Holdings  Corporation. 

Despite  the  popularity  of  the  Rawlings  regime,  there  were 
two  coup  attempts  in  late  1982  and  in  early  1983.  On  Novem- 
ber 23,  1982,  a  group  of  soldiers  tried  to  overthrow  the  regime, 
initiating  hostilities  at  Gondar  Barracks.  Government  forces, 
however,  defeated  the  rebels  and  the  police  arrested  more  than 
twenty  people.  The  second  coup  attempt  occurred  on  Febru- 
ary 27,  1983,  when  security  forces  arrested  nine  soldiers  and 
two  civilians  in  Achimota,  near  Accra.  The  authorities  claimed 
that  they  also  discovered  heavy  machine  guns,  rockets,  ammu- 
nition, and  a  list  of  people  to  be  assassinated.  Kojo  Tsikata,  spe- 
cial adviser  to  the  PNDC,  also  accused  the  United  States 
embassy  of  involvement  in  the  coup  attempt,  but  the  Ghanaian 
government  never  proved  this  allegation. 

Challenges  to  the  Rawlings  regime  continued  throughout 
the  1980s.  During  1985  and  1986,  for  example,  there  were  at 
least  seven  coup  attempts.  On  September  24,  1989,  two  days 
after  Rawlings  had  assumed  direct  command  of  the  armed 


274 


Lieutenant  General 
Frederick  W  K.  Akuffo,  head 
of  state  and  chairman  of  the 
Supreme  Military  Council, 
1978-79 

Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana, 
Washington 


Armored  personnel  carriers 
of  the  Ghanaian  army 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana, 
Washington 


275 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

forces,  the  government  announced  that  it  had  foiled  yet 
another  attempted  coup.  The  attempt  was  led  by  Major  Cour- 
age Quarshigah,  a  popular  officer  in  the  Ghanaian  armed 
forces,  former  commandant  of  the  Ghana  Military  Academy, 
and  a  former  close  ally  of  Rawlings.  Quarshigah  and  four  other 
army  officers  were  arrested.  They  were  accused  of  planning  to 
assassinate  Rawlings  as  part  of  the  coup,  but  several  of  the 
accused  allegedly  favored  a  return  to  constitutional  rule  under 
a  civilian  government. 

Despite  the  so-called  Quarshigah  Affair  and  other  attempted 
coups,  Rawlings  remained  in  control  of  the  PNDG  and  the 
armed  forces,  which  he  commanded  from  September  1989 
until  June  1990.  An  Economic  Recovery  Program  (ERP),  sup- 
ported by  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glos- 
sary) and  the  World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  was  adopted  to 
improve  the  lives  of  Ghanaians.  The  Rawlings  regime  also 
acceded  to  popular  demands  for  a  democratic,  multiparty  elec- 
tion. Despite  these  accomplishments,  however,  corruption, 
authoritarianism,  and  the  misuse  of  power  have  continued  to 
be  significant  problems. 

The  Military  and  the  Economy 

Military  costs  have  fluctuated  widely  since  independence. 
During  the  Nkrumah  era,  the  government  maintained  a  large, 
relatively  well-equipped  military  for  reasons  of  national  pres- 
tige. After  the  1966  coup,  the  ruling  NLC  sought  to  improve 
the  country's  economy  by  lowering  military  spending.  The 
NLC,  however,  was  unwilling  to  reduce  military  manpower  for 
fear  of  alienating  the  armed  forces;  instead,  it  saved  money  by 
canceling  plans  to  purchase  new  equipment.  To  update  its  mil- 
itary inventory,  Ghana  strengthened  links  with  nations  such  as 
Britain,  Canada,  and  the  United  States,  all  of  which  repre- 
sented possible  sources  of  military  assistance. 

Since  the  downfall  of  Nkrumah,  the  level  of  Ghana's  military 
spending  has  fluctuated  widely,  partly  because  of  several  major 
currency  devaluations.  According  to  the  World  Bank,  however, 
Ghana's  military  spending  has  declined  overall.  In  1972  Ghana 
earmarked  about  7.9  percent  of  total  expenditures  for  defense, 
a  figure  that  by  1989  was  down  to  3.2  percent.  Since  then, 
defense  expenditures  have  declined  even  further.  In  1992,  the 
most  recent  year  for  which  reliable  figures  are  available,  Ghana 
allocated  about  US$105  million  for  the  armed  forces,  or  less 
than  2  percent  of  total  budgetary  expenditures. 


276 


National  Security 


Armed  Forces  Mission,  Organization,  and  Strength 

Since  independence,  the  mission  of  the  armed  forces  has 
been  twofold:  to  protect  Ghana's  territorial  integrity  from  for- 
eign aggression,  and  to  maintain  internal  security.  In  the  mid- 
1990s,  ground  forces  held  the  dominant  role  in  the  defense 
establishment.  In  terms  of  organization,  the  military  is  com- 
posed of  the  army  and  its  subordinate  air  and  naval  elements, 
numbering  in  all  6,850  active-duty  personnel  in  1994.  The  mili- 
tary command  structure  extends  from  the  minister  of  defense 
in  the  national  government  to  commanders  in  the  field.  Mili- 
tary units  are  deployed  in  the  capital,  Accra,  and  in  Ghana's 
border  regions.  The  5,000-member  Ghanaian  army,  which  has 
an  eastern  and  a  western  command,  is  organized  into  two  bri- 
gades, with  six  infantry  battalions;  one  reconnaissance  regi- 
ment, with  two  reconnaissance  squadrons;  one  airborne  force, 
with  one  paratroop  company;  one  artillery  regiment;  and  one 
field  engineer  regiment. 

Military  equipment  consists  predominantly  of  older  weapons 
of  British,  Brazilian,  Swiss,  Swedish,  Israeli,  and  Finnish  origin. 
Servicing  of  all  types  of  equipment  has  been  extremely  poor, 
largely  because  of  inadequate  maintenance  capabilities.  As  a 
result,  foreign  military  advisers  or  technicians  perform  all 
major  maintenance  tasks.  Included  in  the  Ghanaian  inventory 
are  FV-601  Saladin  and  EE-9  Cascavel  reconnaissance  vehicles; 
MOWAG  Piranha  armored  personnel  carriers;  81mm  and 
120mm  mortars;  84mm  recoilless  launchers;  and  14.5mm 
ZPU-4  and  23mm  ZU-23-2  air  defense  guns. 

The  1,000-member  Ghanaian  air  force  consists  of  one  coun- 
terinsurgency  squadron  equipped  with  MB-326K  and  MB-339 
aircraft;  three  transport  squadrons  equipped  with  F-27  and  F- 
28  Fokkers,  a  C-212  Aviocar,  and  Skyvan  aircraft;  and  one  train- 
ing squadron  equipped  with  MB-326F,  Bulldog,  and  L-29 
Delfin  aircraft.  The  air  force  also  has  Bell,  Mi-2  Hoplite,  and 
SA-319  helicopters.  It  operates  from  bases  in  Accra  (headquar- 
ters and  main  transport  base),  Tamale  (combat  and  training 
base),  Takoradi  (training  base),  and  Kumasi  (support  base). 
The  air  force's  mission  is  to  perform  counterinsurgency  opera- 
tions and  to  provide  logistical  support  to  the  army.  Since  inde- 
pendence, performance  has  been  hindered  by  a  lack  of  spare 
parts  and  by  poor  maintenance  capabilities.  On  September  18, 
1987,  Air  Force  Commander  J. E.A.  Kotei  announced  plans  to 
begin  internal  passenger  service  to  supplement  the  efforts  of 
Ghana  Airways.  Under  this  program,  the  government  autho- 


277 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

rized  the  transformation  of  Tamale  airport  into  a  civil-military 
airport. 

Ghana's  navy  provides  coastal  defense,  fisheries  protection, 
and  security  on  Lake  Volta.  During  World  War  II,  the  Gold 
Coast  Volunteer  Naval  Force,  which  had  been  established  in 
1936,  provided  sea  patrols  and  conducted  mine-detection  and 
neutralization  operations  along  the  coast.  In  1959  the  Ghana- 
ian government  established  a  true  navy  and  assigned  a  former 
Royal  Navy  officer  the  duties  of  chief  of  staff  with  the  rank  of 
commodore.  In  1961  a  Ghanaian  army  brigadier  replaced  the 
British  commodore.  On  July  14,  1989,  the  navy  recommis- 
sioned  two  ships,  GNS  Yogaga  and  GNS  Dzata,  at  the  western 
naval  base  in  Sekondi.  The  vessels  had  been  refurbished  by  a 
British  shipyard,  Swan  Hunter.  In  1994  the  navy  was  organized 
into  an  eastern  command,  with  headquarters  at  Tema,  and  a 
western  command,  with  headquarters  at  Sekondi.  The  naval 
inventory  includes  two  Kromantse-class  corvettes  and  two 
Achimote-class  and  two  Dazata-class  fast  attack  craft. 

The  Ghanaian  navy  has  experienced  low  readiness  rates 
because  of  spare  parts  shortages.  In  the  late  1980s  and  early 
1990s,  budgetary  constraints  and  a  lack  of  serviceable  equip- 
ment forced  the  navy  to  reduce  its  manpower  from  about  1,200 
to  approximately  850  personnel.  Nevertheless,  in  1990  Ghana's 
navy  deployed  some  of  its  ships  to  support  the  Economic  Com- 
munity of  West  African  States  Monitoring  Group  (ECOMOG) 
mission  in  Liberia.  In  late  1992,  two  of  the  navy's  ships  were  in 
France  for  refitting. 

Paramilitary  forces  consist  of  the  5,000-member  People's 
Militia,  which  serves  as  a  home  guard  force  and  is  responsible 
for  preventing  and  controlling  civil  disturbances  and  insurrec- 
tion. A  small,  elite  Presidential  Guard  consisting  of  one  infan- 
try battalion  provides  security  for  the  president.  The  Ghanaian 
government  also  has  created  a  National  Civil  Defence  Force 
(also  known  as  the  Committees  for  the  Defence  of  the  Revolu- 
tion) ,  which  includes  all  citizens  able  to  perform  military  ser- 
vice. According  to  the  country's  defense  plans,  the  National 
Civil  Defence  Force  would  be  required  to  guard  important 
installations  in  times  of  crisis  to  relieve  pressure  on  the  regular 
armed  forces. 

Military  Manpower,  Training,  and  Morale 
Manpower 

There  is  a  two-year  national  service  requirement  for  male 


278 


National  Security 


Ghanaians,  but  military  manpower  levels  have  always  been 
maintained  by  voluntary  enlistment.  A  limited  number  of 
women  also  serve  in  the  armed  forces,  but  all  women  are  found 
in  administrative  positions,  not  in  operational  units.  Since  mid- 
1988,  all  national  service  personnel  have  undergone  a  six- 
month  military  training  program  that  stresses  drilling,  weapons 
handling,  physical  fitness,  and  first  aid. 

The  armed  forces  offer  commissions  to  qualified  individuals 
from  civilian  life  or  to  those  who  have  completed  cadet  train- 
ing. The  term  of  service  usually  is  five  years  with  reserve  obliga- 
tions thereafter.  Most  technical  services  officers  are  selected 
from  civilian  life  on  the  basis  of  professional  qualifications. 
Recruits  for  combat  or  combat  support  branches  are  required 
to  complete  two  years  of  cadet  training  before  receiving  their 
commissions. 

Enlisted  personnel  are  recruited  for  particular  service 
branches  to  satisfy  specific  branch  needs.  Enlistments  last  up  to 
twelve  years  with  various  active-  and  reserve-duty  options.  Reen- 
listments  are  authorized  for  a  total  of  eighteen  years.  In  addi- 
tion, unit  commanders  are  empowered  to  extend  this  term  of 
service  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  Specifically,  enlisted  recruits  for 
the  technical  services  are  required  to  possess  at  least  a  middle 
school  or  junior  secondary  school  education.  All  personnel 
must  pass  a  physical  examination  and  be  at  least  eighteen  years 
of  age. 

Training 

Military  training  for  all  officer  candidates  of  the  army,  air 
force,  and  navy  is  conducted  at  the  Ghana  Military  Academy 
near  Accra.  Entrance  to  the  academy  is  by  examination,  and 
the  curriculum  includes  military  and  general  subjects.  Army 
cadets  train  for  two  years.  At  the  end  of  the  first  six  months,  a 
few  candidates  may  be  selected  to  finish  their  studies  at  foreign 
institutions  such  as  the  Royal  Military  Academy  at  Sandhurst  in 
Britain.  The  Ghana  Military  Academy,  established  in  1960,  also 
provides  short  courses  in  higher  military  education  for  the 
officers  of  the  three  services.  The  best  senior  officers  are 
selected  periodically  to  attend  the  Army  Staff  College  at  Cam- 
berley  in  Britain  or  one  of  several  other  senior  service  schools 
in  foreign  countries. 

The  Armed  Forces  Training  School  at  Kumasi  trains  army, 
air  force,  and  navy  recruits.  The  basic  army  training  course 
lasts  nine  months  and  is  followed  by  advanced  individual  train- 


279 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

ing  in  the  assigned  unit.  This  school  also  provides  specialist 
training.  A  parachute  training  school  is  located  at  Tamale  and 
a  jungle  warfare  school  at  Achiasi. 

The  army  has  conducted  numerous  field  exercises  with  a 
variety  of  code  names,  including  Hot  Foot,  Deep  Thrust,  Oper- 
ation Swift  Sword,  Full  Impact,  and  Starlight  Stretch.  These 
exercises  test  an  array  of  skills.  Full  Impact  88,  for  example, 
marked  the  first  time  that  Ghanaian  army,  air  force,  and  navy 
units  trained  together.  Deep  Thrust  89  emphasized  jungle  war- 
fare, junior  leadership,  and  physical  fitness.  Starlight  Stretch 
89,  which  was  held  at  Daboya  in  the  northern  region,  improved 
low-level  operations  for  company  groups  in  the  infantry  battal- 
ion. 

To  enhance  regional  collective  security,  the  Ghanaian  army 
also  has  participated  in  joint  exercises  with  Burkina  Faso 
(Burkina,  formerly  Upper  Volta).  In  November  1983  and  in 
early  1985,  the  two  countries  sponsored  joint  exercises  code- 
named  Bold  Union  and  Teamwork  85.  The  latter  involved 
5,500  troops  and  ninety  officers  from  the  two  armed  forces. 
These  personnel  engaged  in  maneuvers  in  which  government 
soldiers  defended  themselves  against  a  battalion-strong  enemy 
force  which  had  installed  itself  on  Dwarf  Island  near  the  strate- 
gically critical  Akosombo  Dam. 

The  Ghanaian  government  subsequently  pledged  to  help 
defend  its  neighbor  in  case  of  armed  aggression.  As  a  result  of 
this  agreement,  Ghana  and  Burkina  have  continued  joint  exer- 
cises. In  late  1986,  a  3,000-member  contingent  of  soldiers  from 
Ghana  and  Burkina  participated  in  a  week-long  exercise  to  test 
the  combat  readiness  of  their  armed  forces  and  security  agen- 
cies. Then,  in  September  1987,  the  two  countries  staged  a 
three-day  exercise  code-named  Operation  Vulcan  in  northern 
Ghana's  Tamale  region.  During  this  exercise,  paratroopers  of 
the  two  countries  parachuted  into  "friendly"  territory  to  give 
support  to  ground  forces  under  simulated  enemy  fire.  Later 
that  year,  Ghana  and  Burkina  concluded  a  three-month  exer- 
cise in  which  four  British  trainers  participated. 

Historically,  the  Ghanaian  air  force  has  relied  on  foreign  mil- 
itary assistance  from  India,  Israel,  Canada,  Britain,  and  Italy  for 
pilot  training.  In  early  1959,  Indian  and  Israeli  officers  super- 
vised the  formation  of  Ghana's  air  force.  In  mid-1959,  an 
Indian  air  force  senior  air  commodore  established  a  headquar- 
ters for  the  service  at  Accra.  In  July  1959,  Israeli  air  force 
instructors  trained  the  first  group  of  Ghanaian  cadet  fliers  at 


280 


National  Security 


Accra  International  Airport.  Two  years  later,  ten  Ghanaians 
qualified  as  pilots. 

In  late  I960,  Ghana  terminated  the  training  agreement  with 
Israel.  Shortly  thereafter,  Accra  and  London  signed  an  accord 
whereby  150  officers  and  airmen  from  the  British  Royal  Air 
Force  (RAF)  assumed  responsibility  for  training  the  Ghanaian 
air  force.  The  commander  of  this  RAF  contingent  also  replaced 
the  Indian  air  commodore  as  chief  of  staff  of  the  Ghanaian  air 
force.  In  mid-1961  a  small  group  from  the  Royal  Canadian  Air 
Force  (RCAF)  supplemented  the  British  mission.  In  September 
1961,  as  part  of  his  Africanization  program,  Nkrumah 
appointed  an  army  brigadier  as  chief  of  staff  and  relieved  all 
RAF  officers  of  their  commands.  The  RAF  contingent 
remained  in  Ghana,  however,  to  help  develop  the  Ghanaian  air 
force  as  part  of  the  British  Joint  Services  Training  Mission. 

In  more  recent  years,  Ghana  has  relied  on  Nigeria  for  air 
force  training.  In  late  1989,  twenty-five  Ghanaian  pilots  and 
technicians  graduated  from  various  training  programs  in  Kano, 
Nigeria.  In  1989  Nigeria  donated  twelve  Czech-built  L-29 
Delfin  trainers  to  the  Ghanaian  air  force.  The  Ghanaian  and 
Nigerian  air  forces  also  conducted  joint  operations  under  the 
auspices  of  the  ECOMOG  peacekeeping  force  in  Liberia  in  the 
early  1990s. 

Naval  training  has  concentrated  on  improving  the  skills  of 
personnel  both  on  shore  and  at  sea.  In  addition,  the  Ghanaian 
navy  regularly  participates  in  joint  air-and-sea  search-and-res- 
cue  operations.  The  United  States  navy  has  supplemented 
these  efforts  by  allowing  United  States  ships  participating  in 
the  West  African  Training  Cruise  to  visit  Ghana.  During  the 
1990  training  cruise,  the  United  States  donated  an  array  of 
educational  materials  and  conducted  a  symposium  on  fisheries 
enforcement.  Inclement  weather  forced  the  cancellation  of  a 
joint  amphibious  exercise,  however. 

The  paramilitary  People's  Militia  usually  receives  its  training 
during  evenings,  weekends,  and  short  periods  of  attachment  to 
regular  army  units.  The  Presidential  Guard,  which  evolved 
from  the  President's  Own  Guard  Regiment  established  by 
Nkrumah,  enjoys  a  higher  training  priority  and  commands  a 
greater  proportion  of  the  military's  resources  (see  The  Devel- 
opment of  the  Modern  Army,  this  ch.). 

Morale 

Morale  in  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces  has  been  influenced 
by  several  factors.  During  the  early  postindependence  period, 


281 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

military  morale  suffered  because  of  ethnic  tensions  and  the  low 
esteem  attached  to  the  armed  forces  by  the  civilian  sector.  The 
politicization  of  the  army  and  jealousy  between  officers  and 
noncommissioned  officers  also  lowered  morale.  During  the 
years  of  military  rule,  morale  gradually  improved.  In  the  ranks, 
however,  esprit  de  corps  has  generally  remained  low  because  of 
poor  pay  and  a  lack  of  opportunities  for  education  and  promo- 
tion. 

A  1979  purge  of  the  armed  forces  reversed  this  trend.  By  the 
late  1980s,  morale  throughout  the  armed  forces  was  generally 
good  because  service  conditions  and  the  public  perception  of 
the  military  had  improved.  Also,  the  PNDC  had  improved  the 
professionalism  of  the  army.  After  Ghana  contributed  troops  to 
the  ECOMOG  peacekeeping  force  in  Liberia  in  mid-1990,  how- 
ever, morale  declined  once  more,  especially  among  enlisted 
personnel,  who  opposed  what  they  perceived  to  be  an  open- 
ended  commitment  to  a  war  irrelevant  to  Ghana.  Controversy 
arose  when  some  individual  Ghanaian  soldiers  exploited  their 
position  as  peacekeepers  to  enrich  themselves  by  engaging  in 
black-market  activities  and  other  questionable  behavior. 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia 

Each  component  service  has  its  own  distinctive  uniforms 
and  insignia.  At  independence  Ghana  opted  to  retain  the  Brit- 
ish order  of  military  ranks  and  corresponding  insignia.  In  the 
1990s,  Ghanaian  ranks  are  still  identical  with  British  ranks  and 
insignia  except  that  Ghana  has  substituted  a  black  star  or  the 
Ghanaian  coat  of  arms  for  the  British  crown  on  appropriate 
insignia  (see  fig.  14;  fig.  15). 

Officers  in  the  army,  air  force,  and  navy  and  enlisted  men  in 
the  army  and  air  force  wear  their  insignia  on  the  shoulder. 
Naval  enlisted  men  wear  their  insignia  as  cap  badges  except  for 
leading  seamen  and  first  and  second  class  petty  officers,  who 
wear  cap  badges  and  shoulder  insignia.  Field  uniforms  of  the 
army  are  olive  green,  those  of  the  navy  are  dark  blue,  and  those 
of  the  air  force  are  light  blue.  Service  caps  are  identical  with 
British  service  caps. 

Foreign  Military  Assistance 

Like  most  African  armed  forces,  the  Ghanaian  military  has 
depended  on  foreign  military  assistance  since  independence. 
Initially,  Ghana  looked  to  the  West,  especially  Britain,  for 


282 


National  Security 


equipment,  training,  and  command  support.  As  Ghanaian  pol- 
itics became  radicalized  and  the  world  divided  along  East-West 
lines,  Ghana's  military  diversified  its  sources  of  military  aid  by 
developing  ties  to  radical  states  such  as  the  former  Soviet 
Union,  China,  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (GDR,  or 
East  Germany),  and  Libya.  After  the  Cold  War  ended,  Ghana 
again  turned  to  the  West  for  most  of  its  military  needs. 

Britain 

Between  1958  and  1961,  Britain  not  only  satisfied  all  Ghana's 
military  requirements  but  also  allowed  British  military  person- 
nel to  serve  in  various  command  positions  in  the  Ghanaian 
armed  forces.  By  the  end  of  1961,  the  British  had  trained  forty- 
three  Ghanaian  army  cadets  at  Sandhurst  and  thirty-four  at  the 
British  Officer  Cadet  School,  Eaton  Hall. 

Although  it  initially  had  opposed  the  formation  of  a  Ghana- 
ian air  force  and  navy,  Britain  eventually  agreed  to  help  train 
personnel  from  these  services.  In  1960  the  British  instituted  an 
air  force  training  and  supply  program  on  condition  that  the 
Indian  and  Israeli  advisers  who  had  established  the  air  force 
were  withdrawn.  Additionally,  between  1960  and  1963,  Britain 
supplied  twelve  Chipmunk  trainers,  three  Heron  transports, 
and  nine  Whirlwind  and  Wessex  helicopters. 

The  Ghanaian  navy  also  benefited  from  British  training. 
Each  year  from  1960  to  1966,  four  or  five  Ghanaian  naval 
cadets  attended  the  Britannia  Royal  Naval  College  at  Dart- 
mouth. By  early  1967,  eighty-seven  Ghanaian  naval  officers  and 
740  enlisted  personnel  were  serving  in  British  home  bases  or 
were  receiving  training  with  the  Royal  Navy.  There  also  were 
twenty-seven  officers  and  forty  senior  enlisted  personnel  from 
the  Royal  Navy  in  Ghanaian  command  and  training  positions. 

In  April  1962,  Accra  allowed  Britain  to  consolidate  its  mili- 
tary presence  in  Ghana  by  creating  the  Joint  Services  Training 
Team  (JSTT).  This  organization,  which  was  composed  of  offic- 
ers and  ranks  from  the  three  services  under  the  command  of  a 
brigadier,  began  its  work  with  a  total  personnel  strength  of  248 
officers  and  men.  The  JSTT  provided  training  and  advisory 
support;  some  British  officers  also  assumed  command  positions 
in  the  Ghanaian  air  force  and  navy.  There  were  no  British  com- 
manders in  the  army.  The  JSTT  continued  to  function  until 
1971,  when  Ghana  terminated  its  training  agreement  with  Brit- 
ain. 


283 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


284 


National  Security 


285 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Even  after  Accra  diversified  its  sources  of  foreign  military 
assistance  and  Africanized  the  armed  forces,  however,  Britain 
continued  to  be  active  in  Ghana.  In  1974-75  the  Vosper 
Thornycroft  shipyard  refitted  a  corvette  warship  under  a 
US$2.5  million  contract.  In  1978  Fairey  Marine  provided  a 
Spear  MK  2  Class  coastal  patrol  boat  to  the  Ghanaian  navy.  In 
March  1984,  the  British  firm  Plessy  reported  that  it  had 
arranged  to  furnish  Ghana  with  equipment  for  air  traffic  con- 
trol. The  British  also  received  an  August  1985  contract  for 
about  US$75,000  worth  of  electronics  equipment.  A  few  years 
later,  Britain  agreed  to  refurbish  four  Skyvan  military  and  VIP 
transports;  by  mid-1991,  the  British  had  completed  work  on 
two  of  these  aircraft  and  delivered  them  to  Ghana.  A  limited 
number  of  British  military  personnel  also  participated  in  joint 
exercises  with  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces. 

Canada 

From  1962  to  1968,  Canada  maintained  a  significant  military 
presence  in  Ghana.  This  relationship  began  on  January  8, 
1962,  when  Ottawa  established  a  thirty-member  Canadian 
Armed  Forces  Training  Team  (CAFTTG)  to  assist  with  the 
training  of  young  Ghanaian  officers.  Except  for  pay  and  allow- 
ances, Ghana  bore  the  cost  of  this  training  program.  During 
their  time  in  Ghana,  CAFTTG  personnel  served  at  the  Teshi 
Military  Academy  (later  Ghana  Military  Academy),  the  Military 
Hospital,  the  Ministry  of  Defence,  Army  Headquarters,  the 
Armed  Forces  Training  School  (Kumasi),  the  Air  Force  Station 
(Takoradi),  the  Airborne  School  (Tamale),  and  the  Training 
School  (Accra).  RCAF  pilots  also  augmented  the  RAF  team 
that  was  training  Ghanaian  air  force  pilots.  In  1969,  the  Cana- 
dian government  decided  to  phase  out  all  military  assistance 
programs  in  developing  countries.  Ottawa  later  reversed  this 
decision,  however,  and  established  a  one-man  CAFTTG  office 
in  Ghana  until  1982,  when  this  individual  returned  to  Canada. 

Apart  from  training  assistance,  Canada  also  provided  a  mod- 
est amount  of  military  equipment  to  Ghana  during  the  imme- 
diate postindependence  period.  Shortly  after  the  Ghanaian  air 
force  was  formed,  Ghana  purchased  numerous  aircraft  from 
Canada,  including  fourteen  Beavers,  twelve  Otters,  and  eight 
twin-engined  Caribou  transports. 

Soviet  Union 

In  January  1958,  Ghana  and  the  Soviet  Union  opened  diplo- 
matic relations.  According  to  many  Western  observers,  Moscow 


286 


National  Security 


planned  to  use  Ghana  as  a  base  to  extend  its  influence  and 
communism  throughout  West  Africa.  Nkrumah,  on  the  other 
hand,  hoped  that  close  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  would 
enable  him  to  diversify  Ghana's  sources  of  military  assistance. 
Ghana  temporarily  achieved  its  goal;  Moscow,  however,  failed 
to  establish  a  communist  foothold  in  West  Africa. 

The  two  countries  maintained  a  multifaceted  military  rela- 
tionship. In  1961  Ghana  purchased  eight  Ilyushin-18s,  on 
credit,  at  more  than  US$1.5  million  each.  High  operating  coats 
forced  the  Ghanaian  government  to  return  four  of  these  air- 
craft to  the  Soviet  Union  and  to  transfer  the  other  four  to 
Ghana  Airways.  Two  years  later,  Moscow  presented  an  Mi-4 
helicopter  to  Nkrumah  as  a  personal  gift.  In  1965,  after  a  year 
of  internal  unrest  and  several  assassination  attempts  against 
him,  Nkrumah  concluded  an  arms  deal  with  the  Soviet  Union 
for  the  purchase  of  weapons  for  the  presidential  guard.  The 
shipment  included  twenty-four  light  artillery  pieces,  twenty-one 
medium  mortars,  fifteen  antiaircraft  guns,  twenty  heavy 
machine  guns,  and  a  large  amount  of  ammunition. 

Apart  from  these  military  sales  and  the  gift  of  a  helicopter, 
the  Soviet  Union  deployed  an  array  of  military,  security,  and 
technical  advisers  to  Ghana  in  the  1960s.  In  1964,  for  example, 
Soviet  crews  manned  four  patrol  boats  based  at  Tema;  accord- 
ing to  anti-Nkrumah  elements,  these  patrol  boats  cruised  the 
coast  of  Ghana  and  carried  arms  to  opposition  groups  in 
nearby  countries.  By  early  1966,  the  Soviet  Union  had  begun 
construction  of  a  new  air  base  near  Tamale  in  northern  Ghana. 
Soviet  instructors  worked  at  secret  Bureau  of  African  Affairs 
camps,  at  the  Kwame  Nkrumah  Ideological  Institute  in  Win- 
neba,  and  at  numerous  other  security  and  military  training 
facilities.  Additionally,  at  least  seventy-six  Ghanaian  army  offi- 
cer cadets  attended  military  schools  in  the  Soviet  Union. 
Ghana  Young  Pioneers  also  received  training  at  Komsomol 
schools  in  the  Soviet  Union. 

After  the  downfall  of  Nkrumah  in  1966,  up  to  1,100  Soviet 
personnel  were  expelled  from  Ghana.  The  new  government 
broke  diplomatic  relations  with  Moscow  and  terminated  all 
military  assistance  agreements.  In  the  following  years,  Soviet- 
Ghanaian  cooperation  was  minimal.  In  the  mid-1980s,  Ghana 
unsuccessfully  petitioned  the  Soviet  Union  to  reactivate  some 
of  the  projects  that  had  been  abandoned  after  Nkrumah  was 
overthrown.  In  late  1986,  Ghana's  National  Secretariat  of  Com- 
mittees for  the  Defence  of  the  Revolution  reportedly  signed  an 


287 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

agreement  with  the  Soviet  Union  for  assistance  in  training 
national  cadres.  At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  an  unknown  number 
of  secret  service  personnel  and  commandos  received  training 
in  the  Soviet  Union.  As  of  late  1994,  there  was  no  indication 
that  Ghana  and  Russia,  the  most  powerful  of  the  successor 
states  of  the  former  Soviet  Union,  had  concluded  any  military 
assistance  agreements. 

German  Democratic  Republic 

Like  other  major  communist  powers,  East  Germany  sought 
to  exploit  Kwame  Nkrumah's  radicalism  to  erode  Western 
influence  in  Ghana  and  to  use  Ghana  as  a  base  for  spreading 
communism  throughout  West  Africa.  The  relationship  between 
the  two  countries  began  in  1964,  when  Ghana's  Bureau  of  Afri- 
can Affairs  approached  the  East  German  Trade  Mission  in 
Accra  and  requested  intelligence  training  for  its  staff.  Subse- 
quently, two  East  German  officers  who  worked  for  the  Ministry 
of  State  Security  traveled  to  Ghana  to  assess  the  bureau's  train- 
ing requirements.  One  of  these  officers  remained  in  Ghana 
and  inaugurated  a  "Secret  Service  and  Intelligence  Work" 
course  for  seven  members  of  the  Bureau  of  African  Affairs. 
This  officer  later  offered  an  "Intelligence  Work  Under  Diplo- 
matic Cover"  course  for  six  other  people  who  worked  in  the 
Bureau  of  African  Affairs  and  who  eventually  were  assigned  to 
posts  in  Zambia,  Nigeria,  Kenya,  Sierra  Leone,  Tanzania,  and 
Burundi.  East  Germany  also  helped  the  Ghanaian  government 
to  create  an  intelligence  section  in  the  Bureau  of  African 
Affairs.  These  activities  ended  after  Nkrumah's  downfall. 

China 

Next  to  the  former  Soviet  Union,  China  was  the  most  active 
communist  nation  in  Ghana.  Chinese  activities  began  in  Octo- 
ber 1962,  when  Beijing  provided  a  loan  for  the  construction  of 
two  arms  factories;  Ghana,  however,  never  used  the  funds.  Two 
years  later,  the  two  countries  signed  a  secret  agreement  for  the 
provision  of  military  equipment  and  advisers  for  Ghana's  "free- 
dom fighters."  In  late  1964,  a  five-member  team  of  Chinese 
guerrilla  warfare  experts  arrived  at  Half  Assini  Training  Camp. 
Shortly  thereafter,  this  team  inaugurated  a  twenty-day  course 
that  consisted  of  training  in  the  manufacture  and  the  use  of 
explosives,  guerrilla  tactics,  and  "basic  guiding  and  thinking  on 
armed  struggle."  Other  Chinese  instructors  offered  another 
course  at  Obenimase  Camp  in  Ashanti  Region  on  strategy  and 


288 


National  Security 


tactics,  explosives,  weapons  use,  telecommunications,  and  bat- 
tlefield first  aid.  An  unknown  number  of  Ghanaians  also 
attended  a  three-month  espionage  training  course  in  China. 
Students  from  many  other  African  nations,  including  Zaire, 
Niger,  Cameroon,  Fernando  Po,  Tanzania,  Zambia,  Rwanda, 
Togo,  Cote  d'lvoire,  Burkina,  Gabon,  Nigeria,  and  Guinea,  also 
received  intelligence  training  from  the  Chinese  in  Ghana. 

After  the  1966  change  of  government,  Ghana  expelled  430 
Chinese  nationals,  including  three  intelligence  officers  and 
thirteen  guerrilla  warfare  specialists.  Although  they  resumed 
diplomatic  relations  in  1972,  Ghana  and  China  never  re-initi- 
ated significant  military  ties. 

Israel 

In  April  1959,  Israel,  with  help  from  India,  supervised  the 
establishment  of  the  Ghanaian  air  force.  A  small  Israeli  team 
also  trained  aircraft  maintenance  personnel  and  radio  techni- 
cians at  the  Accra-based  Air  Force  Trade  Training  School. 
Although  the  British  persuaded  Nkrumah  to  withdraw  Israeli 
advisers  from  Ghana  in  1960,  Ghanaian  pilots  continued  to 
receive  some  training  at  aviation  schools  in  Israel.  After  Nkru- 
mah's  overthrow,  Israeli  military  activities  in  Ghana  ended. 

United  States 

Military  relations  between  Ghana  and  the  United  States  have 
been  minimal  and  have  been  concentrated  in  the  Interna- 
tional Military  Education  and  Training  (IMET)  program, 
which  includes  professional  military  education,  management, 
and  technical  training.  Between  fiscal  year  (FY)  1950  and  FY 
1990,  the  value  of  training  under  the  IMET  program  amounted 
to  US$3.5  million.  Estimated  IMET  figures  for  FY  1991  were 
US$252,000;  for  FY  1992,  US$175,000;  and  for  FY  1993, 
US$250,000.  No  credits  under  the  United  States  Foreign  Mili- 
tary Sales  program  were  given  to  Ghana  after  1955;  in  FY  1995, 
however,  $300,000  in  credits  was  reportedly  made  available.  Pri- 
vate United  States  companies  received  about  US$905,000 
worth  of  commercial  export  licenses  for  Ghanaian  arms  pur- 
chases from  FY  1950  to  FY  1990. 

Italy 

Since  independence,  Ghana  has  relied  on  Italy  for  an  array 
of  military  aircraft.  In  early  1966,  the  Ghanaian  air  force  estab- 


289 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

lished  a  jet  fighter/ground-attack  squadron,  which  was  com- 
posed of  seven  Italian  Aermacchi  MB-326s  (within  two  years, 
three  of  these  aircraft  crashed  and  were  later  replaced).  A 
small  group  of  Italian  Air  Force  instructors  supervised  this 
squadron.  In  1983  and  1984,  the  Ghanaian  air  force  accepted 
delivery  of  eight  SIAI-Marchetti  SF-260TP  turboprop  trainers. 
In  mid-1987,  Ghana  ordered  two  Aermacchi  MB-339  jet  train- 
ers from  Italy. 

Libya 

Little  is  known  about  the  Ghanaian-Libyan  military  relation- 
ship. An  unknown  number  of  Libyan  military  personnel  have 
participated  in  Ghanaian  military  exercises  as  observers.  Dur- 
ing the  second  Rawlings  regime,  an  undetermined  number  of 
Libyan  soldiers  received  jungle  warfare  training  in  Ghana.  In 
May  1983,  the  Ghanaian  government  acknowledged  that  it  had 
received  unspecified  quantities  of  military  equipment,  mostly 
artillery  pieces  and  ammunition,  as  gifts  from  Libya.  To  all 
appearances,  Accra's  ties  to  Libya  weakened  after  Ghana 
moved  closer  to  the  West  in  the  late  1980s. 

State  Security  Services 

The  origins  of  Ghana's  police  force  lie  in  efforts  by  the  Brit- 
ish council  of  merchants  to  protect  trading  routes  and  depots. 
In  1830  the  committee  hired  numerous  guards  and  escorts. 
Fourteen  years  later,  the  British  established  the  120-member 
Gold  Coast  Militia  and  Police  (GCMP).  The  authorities  dis- 
banded this  force  in  1860  and  created  a  ninety-member  corps 
called  the  Queen's  Messengers.  Military  units  assumed  the 
GCMP's  paramilitary  duties. 

During  the  Asante  wars,  the  Queen's  Messengers  joined  the 
Hausa  Constabulary,  imported  from  Nigeria,  and  formed  the 
Gold  Coast  Armed  Police  Force.  In  1876  the  British  reorga- 
nized this  unit  into  the  Gold  Coast  Constabulary,  which  was 
divided  into  two  forces  in  1901,  with  the  paramilitary  mission 
assigned  to  the  Gold  Coast  Regiment  and  the  police  functions 
given  to  the  Gold  Coast  Police  Force.  The  Northern  Territories 
Constabulary,  which  the  British  created  in  1907,  joined  the 
Gold  Coast  Police  Force  shortly  after  World  War  I.  This  left  the 
Gold  Coast  with  one  police  force,  a  situation  that  prevailed 
until  independence. 


290 


Ghanaian  air  force  personnel  on  parade 
Contingent  of  the  Ghanaian  navy  on  parade 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Ghana,  Washington 


291 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

During  the  1950s,  the  British  instituted  several  changes  in 
the  Gold  Coast  Police  Force  to  modernize,  enlarge,  and  better 
equip  the  force.  Of  greater  importance  was  Britain's  decision 
to  Africanize  the  police.  During  the  first  decade  of  this  century, 
the  British  had  restricted  access  to  senior  positions  in  all 
branches  of  the  colonial  administration.  This  restriction 
became  a  major  concern  of  Ghanaian  nationalists,  who  agi- 
tated against  it,  an  action  that  gradually  caused  a  reduction  in 
the  number  of  British  officers.  In  1951,  for  example,  sixty-four 
of  eighty  senior  police  officers  were  foreigners;  however,  by 
1958,  only  eleven  of  128  senior  officers  were  foreigners. 

This  Africanization  continued  under  Nkrumah.  In  1958 
Nkrumah  appointed  the  first  Ghanaian  police  commissioner, 
E.R.T.  Madjitey.  By  the  early  1960s,  the  only  expatriates  who 
remained  on  the  force  were  a  few  technical  advisers  and 
instructors.  Nkrumah,  however,  distrusted  the  police.  After  an 
unsuccessful  assassination  attempt  against  Nkrumah  in  1964  by 
a  police  constable,  he  disarmed  the  police,  discharged  nine 
senior  officers,  detained  eight  others,  and  removed  the  Border 
Guards  unit  from  the  police  and  placed  it  under  military  con- 
trol. Nkrumah  also  reduced  the  size  of  the  police  force  from 
13,247  in  1964  to  10,709  in  1965. 

After  the  demise  of  the  Nkrumah  regime,  the  size  of  the 
police  force  increased  from  17,692  in  1966  to  19,895  in  1968. 
The  government  also  restored  the  Border  Guards  unit  to 
police  control  (in  1972  this  unit  again  became  an  autonomous 
unit).  By  the  early  1980s,  the  police  enjoyed  respect  from  most 
Ghanaians  because,  for  the  most  part,  they  were  not  involved 
with  government  attempts  to  suppress  political  dissidents  or  to 
punish  those  suspected  of  trying  to  overthrow  the  Rawlings 
regime,  duties  normally  assigned  to  the  armed  forces. 

In  1993  Ghana's  law  enforcement  establishment  consisted  of 
351  police  officers,  649  inspectors,  and  15,191  personnel  in 
other  grades  distributed  among  479  stations.  The  national 
headquarters  are  in  Accra;  they  operate  under  command  of  an 
inspector  general.  An  eight-member  Police  Council,  estab- 
lished in  1969,  advises  the  inspector  general  on  all  personnel 
and  policy  matters.  The  inspector  general  supervises  ten  police 
regions,  each  commanded  by  an  assistant  commissioner  of 
police.  The  police  regions  in  turn  are  divided  into  districts,  sta- 
tions, and  posts.  The  police  service  is  composed  of  General 
Administration,  Criminal  Investigations  Department,  Special 
Branch,  Police  Hospital,  and  National  Ambulance  Service. 


292 


National  Security 


Recruitment  into  the  police  is  conducted  at  the  rank-and-file 
and  the  commissioned-officer  levels.  All  recruits  must  be 
between  eighteen  and  thirty-four  years  of  age,  must  pass  a  med- 
ical examination,  and  must  have  no  criminal  record.  Escort 
Police  applicants  must  have  at  least  basic  facility  in  spoken 
English,  General  Police  applicants  must  have  completed  mid- 
dle school  or  junior  secondary  school,  and  officer  corps  appli- 
cants must  hold  a  university  degree. 

Training  for  rank-and-file  personnel  in  the  Escort  and  the 
General  Police  forces  is  conducted  at  the  Elmina  police  depot; 
Escort  Police  also  have  been  trained  at  several  regional  depots. 
Since  1975  recruits  have  attended  a  nine-month  course  of 
instruction  in  physical  training  and  drill,  firearms  use, 
unarmed  combat,  and  first  aid.  Escort  Police  are  given  general 
education  and  instruction  in  patrol  and  escort  duties.  General 
Police  are  trained  in  criminal  law  and  procedures,  methods  of 
investigation,  current  affairs,  and  social  sciences. 

The  Accra  Police  College,  established  in  1959,  offers  a  nine- 
month  officer  cadet  course  and  two-  to  six-week  refresher 
courses  in  general  and  technical  subjects.  Police  officers  staff 
the  college;  guest  lecturers  come  from  the  police,  other  gov- 
ernment agencies,  and  universities.  The  officer  cadet  course 
offers  instruction  in  criminal  law  and  procedures,  laws  of  evi- 
dence, police  administration,  finance,  social  sciences,  practical 
police  work,  and  physical  fitness.  Upon  graduation,  cadets  are 
sworn  in  and  promoted  to  assistant  superintendent. 

Since  the  early  1990s,  the  reputation  of  the  police  has 
improved,  primarily  because  fewer  individual  officers  have 
used  their  positions  to  extort  money  from  civilians.  Moreover, 
an  increasing  number  of  police  have  been  deployed  overseas  to 
support  Ghana's  commitment  to  international  peacekeeping 
operations.  In  1992-93,  for  example,  a  police  contingent 
served  with  the  United  Nations  Transitional  Authority  in  Cam- 
bodia. In  addition  to  supervising  local  police  and  maintaining 
law  and  order,  this  contingent  also  tried  to  prevent  gross  viola- 
tions of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 

Criminal  Justice 

Prior  to  the  advent  of  British  imperial  rule,  traditional  law, 
which  sought  to  maintain  social  equilibrium  and  to  ensure 
communal  solidarity,  governed  social  relations  among  Ghana's 
peoples.  Among  the  Talensi  ethnic  group  of  northern  Ghana, 
for  example,  homicide  was  viewed  as  a  transgression  against 


293 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


the  earth,  one's  ancestors,  and  the  victim's  lineage.  Deterrence 
from  crime  or  rehabilitation  of  an  offender  were  not  objectives 
of  the  legal  system.  Among  the  Asante,  the  same  concern  with 
social  equilibrium  and  communal  solidarity  prevailed.  Serious 
crimes  such  as  murder,  unintentional  homicide,  suicide,  sexual 
offenses,  treason,  cowardice  in  war,  witchcraft,  and  crimes 
against  the  chief  were  termed  oman  akyiwade,  offenses  that 
threatened  the  mystical  communion  between  the  community 
on  the  one  hand  and  one's  ancestors  and  Asante  gods  on  the 
other.  The  authorities  punished  such  behavior  with  a  sentence 
of  death  in  the  case  of  murder  or  by  the  sacrifice  of  an  appro- 
priate animal  in  the  case  of  lesser  offenses.  Efisem,  or  minor 
crimes,  did  not  rupture  this  relationship;  hence,  an  offender 
could  repay  his  debt  to  society  with  a  ritual  impata,  or  compen- 
sation. 

The  British  imposed  upon  Ghana's  traditional  societies  crim- 
inal laws  and  penal  systems  designed  to  "keep  the  multitude  in 
order"  rather  than  to  preserve  the  equilibrium  between  the 
human  and  spiritual  worlds.  The  development  of  penal  law, 
however,  was  uneven.  From  1828  to  1842,  a  council  of  mer- 
chants exercised  criminal  jurisdiction  in  and  around  British 
forts  on  the  coast.  The  council  often  abused  this  power, 
thereby  alienating  many  Ghanaians.  After  creating  the  Gold 
Coast  Colony  in  1874,  the  British  gradually  reformed  and 
improved  the  legal  and  the  penal  systems.  After  more  than  a 
century  of  legal  evolution,  the  application  of  traditional  law  to 
criminal  acts  disappeared.  Since  1961  the  criminal  law  adminis- 
tered by  the  court  system  has  been  statutory  and  based  on  a 
Criminal  Code.  This  code  is  founded  on  British  common  law, 
doctrines  of  equity,  and  general  statutes  which  were  in  force  in 
Britain  in  1874,  as  amended  by  subsequent  Ghanaian  ordi- 
nances. 

Criminal  Code  and  Courts 

Two  of  the  three  categories  of  offenses  cited  in  the  Criminal 
Code  concern  transgressions  against  the  individual.  The  third 
category  includes  a  series  of  offenses  against  public  order, 
health  and  morality,  and  the  security  of  the  state,  as  well  as 
piracy,  perjury,  rioting,  vagrancy,  and  cruelty  to  animals.  Sev- 
eral offenses  reflect  Ghana's  traditional  laws,  including  drum- 
ming with  the  intent  to  provoke  disorder,  cocoa  smuggling, 
and  settlement  of  private  disputes  by  methods  of  traditional 
ordeal. 


294 


National  Security 


Criminal  Court  procedure  is  guided  by  the  Criminal  Proce- 
dure Code  of  1960  as  subsequently  amended.  As  in  British  law, 
habeas  corpus  is  allowed,  and  the  courts  are  authorized  to 
release  suspects  on  bail.  Ghana's  legal  system  does  not  use 
grand  juries,  but,  in  accordance  with  constitutionally  guaran- 
teed fundamental  rights,  defendants  charged  with  a  criminal 
offense  are  entitled  to  a  trial  by  jury. 

Five  degrees  of  offenses  are  recognized  in  Ghana.  Capital 
offenses,  for  which  the  maximum  penalty  is  death  by  hanging, 
include  murder,  treason,  and  piracy.  First-degree  felonies  pun- 
ishable by  life  imprisonment  are  limited  to  manslaughter,  rape, 
and  mutiny.  Second-degree  felonies,  punishable  by  ten  years' 
imprisonment,  include  intentional  and  unlawful  harm  to  per- 
sons, perjury,  and  robbery.  Misdemeanors,  punishable  by  vari- 
ous terms  of  imprisonment,  include  assault,  theft,  unlawful 
assembly,  official  corruption,  and  public  nuisances.  Increased 
penalties  apply  to  individuals  with  a  prior  criminal  record.  Cor- 
poral punishment  is  not  permitted.  Punishments  for  juveniles 
are  subject  to  two  restrictions:  no  death  sentence  may  be 
passed  against  a  juvenile,  and  no  juvenile  under  age  seventeen 
may  be  imprisoned.  Regulations  and  laws  such  as  these  are  not 
applied  equitably.  Indeed,  defendants  habitually  resort  to  one 
or  another  measure  to  avoid  or  ameliorate  punishment. 

The  Ghanaian  court  system  is  a  multifaceted  organization. 
The  Supreme  Court  of  Ghana,  which  consists  of  the  chief  jus- 
tice and  four  other  justices,  is  the  final  court  of  appeal  and  has 
jurisdiction  over  matters  relating  to  the  enforcement  or  the 
interpretation  of  constitutional  law.  The  Court  of  Appeal, 
which  includes  the  chief  justice  and  not  fewer  than  five  other 
judges,  has  jurisdiction  to  hear  and  to  determine  appeals  from 
any  judgment,  decree,  or  High  Court  of  Justice  order.  The 
High  Court  of  Justice,  which  consists  of  the  chief  justice  and 
not  fewer  than  twelve  other  justices,  has  jurisdiction  in  all  mat- 
ters, civil  and  criminal,  other  than  those  involving  treason. 

Before  mid-1993,  lower  courts  consisted  of  circuit  courts, 
which  had  jurisdiction  in  civil  matters  and  in  all  criminal  cases 
except  offenses  in  which  the  maximum  punishment  was  death 
or  the  offense  was  treason;  district  or  magistrate  courts,  with 
jurisdiction  over  civil  suits  and  criminal  cases  except  first- 
degree  felonies;  and  juvenile  courts,  empowered  to  hear 
charges  against  persons  under  seventeen  years  of  age.  In  1982 
the  PNDC  created  a  parallel  hierarchy  of  special  courts  called 
public  tribunals,  which  exercised  only  criminal  jurisdiction, 


295 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

including  some  offenses  under  the  Criminal  Code  (see  The 
Judiciary,  ch.  4).  Members  of  the  public  tribunals  and  their 
panels  were  mostly  lay  people  who  sat  with  lawyers.  Proceed- 
ings were  often  swift  and  could  result  in  death  sentences. 
There  were  no  provisions  for  appeals  until  1984,  when  the 
PNDC  established  the  National  Public  Tribunal,  which  con- 
sisted of  three  to  five  members,  to  receive  appeals  from  lower 
tribunals.  Its  decisions,  however,  were  final  and  could  not  be 
appealed.  In  1982  a  five-  to  seven-member  Special  Military  Tri- 
bunal was  also  established  to  handle  crimes  committed  by  mili- 
tary personnel. 

In  July  1993,  the  Parliament  of  the  Fourth  Republic  incorpo- 
rated the  public  tribunals  into  the  existing  lower  courts  system, 
except  for  the  National  Public  Tribunal,  which  was  abolished. 
A  new  hierarchy  of  lower  courts  was  established  consisting  of 
community  tribunals,  circuit  tribunals,  and  regional  tribunals. 
The  tribunals  have  original  jurisdiction  in  both  civil  and  crimi- 
nal cases,  and  decisions  can  be  appealed  through  higher 
courts.  In  late  1994,  indications  were  that  the  new  tribunals 
had  not  yet  begun  to  function  in  many  parts  of  the  country,  at 
least  partly  for  lack  of  funds. 

Prison  System 

There  was  no  prison  system  in  traditional  Ghanaian  societ- 
ies. In  the  mid-nineteenth  century,  the  British  council  of  mer- 
chants established  a  network  of  harsh  prisons  in  forts  such  as 
Cape  Coast  Castle.  By  1850  four  such  prisons  could  hold  up  to 
129  prisoners.  Convicts  usually  worked  on  road  gangs.  The  Pris- 
ons Ordinance  of  1860  outlined  regulations  for  the  safe-keep- 
ing of  prisoners.  Later  ordinances  further  defined  the  nature 
of  the  colony's  prison  regimen,  or  "separate  system,"  which 
required  solitary  confinement  by  night,  penal  labor,  and  a  min- 
imum diet.  By  the  early  1900s,  British  colonial  officials  adminis- 
tered the  country's  prisons  and  employed  Europeans  to  work 
as  guards  in  the  prisons.  After  World  War  II,  Ghanaians  gradu- 
ally replaced  these  individuals.  By  1962  Ghanaians  staffed  all 
positions  in  the  prison  system. 

Under  Nkrumah  the  government  showed  little  concern  for 
reform  and  modernization  of  the  penal  system.  After  Nkru- 
mah's  overthrow,  the  National  Liberation  Council  (NLC) 
authorized  a  civilian  commission  to  investigate  the  prison  sys- 
tem and  to  make  recommendations  for  improvements.  The 
commission's  report,  issued  in  1968,  revealed  numerous  prob- 


296 


National  Security 


lems.  Of  the  country's  twenty-nine  prisons,  nine  were  judged 
unfit  for  human  habitation,  two  were  suitable  only  for  police 
lockups,  and  thirteen  were  appropriate  only  for  short-term 
detainment.  Because  of  corruption  and  incompetence,  how- 
ever, the  NLC  failed  to  act  upon  the  commission's  recommen- 
dations. As  a  result,  prison  conditions  continued  to  be 
substandard,  with  poor  ventilation,  sanitation,  and  food-prepa- 
ration facilities. 

Ministerial  responsibility  for  the  prison  system  has  shifted 
periodically  since  independence,  but  the  operation  of  prisons 
is  fixed  by  statute  and  is  divided  into  adult  and  juvenile  correc- 
tion. The  former  is  governed  by  the  Prisons  Ordinance,  which 
outlines  rules  for  prison  operation  and  treatment  of  prisoners. 
The  constitution  of  1969  established  a  Prison  Service,  the 
director  of  which  is  appointed  by  the  chief  executive  and  is 
responsible  to  the  minister  of  interior.  The  Criminal  Procedure 
Code  determines  procedures  for  handling  young  offenders. 

The  Prisons  Service  Board  formulates  prison  policy  and  reg- 
ulations and  administers  the  country's  prisons.  The  board  con- 
sists of  a  Public  Services  Commission  member  as  chairman,  the 
prison  services  director,  a  medical  officer  of  the  Ghana  Medical 
Association,  a  representative  of  the  attorney  general,  the  prin- 
cipal secretary  of  the  Ministry  of  Employment  and  Social  Wel- 
fare, and  three  other  appointed  members,  one  of  whom  must 
be  a  woman  and  two  of  whom  must  be  representatives  of  reli- 
gious organizations. 

To  ensure  the  welfare  and  the  proper  treatment  of  prison- 
ers, the  constitution  requires  the  Prisons  Service  Board  to 
ensure  that  prison  conditions  are  reviewed  at  intervals  of  not 
less  than  two  years.  Reports  of  unjustified  treatment  of  prison- 
ers and  recommendations  for  reform  measures  are  required  of 
the  board. 

The  prisons  service  is  a  career  establishment  with  a  promo- 
tion system  based  on  training  and  merit;  its  members  have 
retirement  privileges  similar  to  those  of  other  public  services. 
Prisons  service  standards  require  one  staff  member  for  every 
three  prisoners,  but  the  ratio  in  many  institutions  has  risen  to 
one  to  five  or  more. 

Although  understaffing  has  been  a  long-standing  problem, 
the  quality  of  prison  officers  and  guards  has  improved  over  the 
years.  Women  are  included  in  both  categories.  Although 
recruited  from  all  over  the  country,  prison  personnel  largely 
come  from  the  Ewe  and  Ga  ethnic  groups.  The  prisons  service 


297 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

maintains  a  training  school  and  depot  at  Mamobi,  near  Accra. 
This  facility  offers  a  six-month  training  course  for  senior  staff 
members,  special  courses  for  matrons,  and  preparatory  courses 
for  promotion  examinations. 

In  1992,  the  most  recent  year  for  which  data  were  available, 
the  prison  system  consisted  of  twenty-seven  institutions,  includ- 
ing six  central  prisons  for  men  at  Accra  (Ussher  Fort  and  James 
Fort),  Sekondi,  Kumasi,  Tamale,  and  Nsawam;  two  for  women 
at  Ekuasi  (near  Sekondi)  and  at  Ho;  fifteen  local  prisons  sited 
throughout  the  country,  six  of  which  have  annexes  for  women; 
and  two  "open"  prisons,  one  at  James  Camp  near  Accra,  and 
the  other  at  Ankaful  near  Cape  Coast.  About  70  percent  of 
commitments  are  for  less  than  six  months.  Outside  the  crimi- 
nal justice  system,  the  Ministry  of  Employment  and  Social  Wel- 
fare operates  probation  homes  in  Accra  and  Jakobu  Ashanti  for 
boys  and  in  Kumasi  for  girls;  detention  centers  in  Accra, 
Sekondi,  Cape  Coast,  and  Kumasi  handle  juveniles  of  both 
sexes. 

Persons  convicted  and  sentenced  to  a  period  of  police  super- 
vision (parole)  rather  than  imprisonment  are  subject  to  a 
licensing  arrangement.  Violations  of  the  license  terms  are  pun- 
ishable by  one-year  imprisonment.  Upon  convicting  an 
offender  of  any  age,  a  court  may  release  that  individual  on  pro- 
bation for  six  months  to  three  years.  Failure  to  comply  with  the 
terms  of  the  probation  can  result  in  the  probationer's  having  to 
serve  the  sentence  for  the  original  offense.  Probation  has  been 
used  mainly  for  young  persons. 

Human  Rights 

Ever  since  the  Nkrumah  government  of  the  late  1950s  and 
early  1960s,  successive  Ghanaian  governments  have  devised 
policies  to  contain  or  to  eliminate  political  opposition.  Observ- 
ers, both  domestic  and  international,  point  to  the  Preventive 
Detention  Act  of  1958  as  the  first  major  official  act  of  human 
rights  infringement.  Subsequently,  international  human  rights 
organizations  such  as  Amnesty  International  and  Africa  Watch 
have  reported  many  cases  of  abuse. 

The  NLC,  which  ousted  Nkrumah  in  1966,  used  authoritar- 
ian tactics  against  real  and  imagined  adversaries.  The  Busia 
government,  which  followed  the  NLC,  also  employed  harsh 
measures  against  its  opponents.  Beginning  in  1972  when 
Acheampong  seized  power,  respect  for  the  state  and  its  institu- 
tions and  laws  withered,  a  development  that  in  turn  caused  an 


298 


President  Jerry  John 
Rawlings,  on  an  official 
visit  to  Washington  in 
March  1995,  discussed 
Ghana's  role  in 
international  peacekeeping, 
regional  stability  in  West 
Africa,  trade,  and  mutual 
cooperation  with  President 
William  J.  Clinton. 
Courtesy  The  White  House 


increase  in  human  rights  violations.  In  1979  Jerry  Rawlings 
sought  to  redress  this  situation  by  launching  an  army  mutiny, 
which  led  to  several  executions,  including  those  of  three 
former  heads  of  state. 

Following  a  second  coup  on  December  31,  1981,  Rawlings 
promised  to  put  power  in  the  hands  of  the  people  by  revolu- 
tionizing the  country's  political  and  economic  system.  To 
achieve  this  goal,  Rawlings  suspended  the  constitution,  banned 
political  parties,  and  arrested  numerous  party  leaders.  On  Feb- 
ruary 18,  1983,  the  Rawlings  government  promulgated  PNDC 
Law  42,  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (Establish- 
ment) Proclamation  (Supplementary  and  Consequential  Provi- 
sions) Law,  which  was  retroactive  to  December  31,  1981. 
According  to  Amnesty  International,  this  law  gave  the  PNDC 
and  its  chairman,  Rawlings,  "wide  and  apparently  arbitrary 
power  over  the  citizens  of  Ghana."  Additionally,  Amnesty  Inter- 
national voiced  concern  about  the  establishment  of  public  tri- 
bunals to  try  political  criminals,  the  detention  without  trial  of 
suspected  government  opponents,  the  imprisonment  after  an 
unfair  trial  of  such  people,  reports  of  arbitrary  killings  by 
armed  forces  personnel,  and  the  beating  and  ill  treatment  of 
political  opponents  and  criminals  by  armed  forces  personnel. 

Since  the  late  1980s,  Ghana  has  continued  to  experience 
human  rights  problems.  These  include  restrictions  on  such 


299 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

basic  rights  as  freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  the  press,  free- 
dom of  religion,  and  freedom  of  assembly;  the  right  of  citizens 
to  change  their  government;  and  due  process  of  law.  In  June 

1989,  Ghanaian  authorities  established  regulations  for  register- 
ing all  religious  organizations,  froze  the  assets  of  four 
churches,  and  expelled  expatriate  missionaries  who  were  Jeho- 
vah's Witnesses  or  Mormons.  Additionally,  the  PNDC  detained 
the  president  and  the  secretary  general  of  the  Ghana  Bar  Asso- 
ciation without  charge  for  more  than  a  week  after  the  associa- 
tion  announced  its  intention  to  hold  a  conference 
commemorating  the  1982  murder  of  three  judges  by  soldiers. 
After  the  association  canceled  its  plans,  the  government 
released  the  president  and  the  secretary  general. 

Ghanaian  authorities  also  arrested  numerous  American  citi- 
zens who  belonged  to  a  religious  group  known  as  the  Black 
Hebrews  and  held  them  without  charge  for  lengthy  periods.  In 
September  1989,  the  Ministry  of  Defence  ordered  the  impris- 
onment of  Major  Courage  Quarshigah  and  four  others  for 
"their  alleged  involvement  in  activities  which  could  have  com- 
promised the  security  of  the  state,"  that  is,  for  having  attempted 
a  coup.  Eventually,  the  government  detained  another  group  of 
five  people  in  connection  with  the  so-called  Quarshigah  Affair. 
By  the  end  of  1989,  there  were  about  200  political  detainees 
and  prisoners.  The  government  failed  to  respond  to  appeals  by 
Amnesty  International  to  investigate  reported  mistreatment  of 
these  detainees  and  prisoners. 

Significant  restrictions  on  personal  freedoms  continued  in 

1990.  Summary  arrests  and  detention  without  formal  charges 
were  also  numerous.  Additionally,  Lebanese  and  other  resident 
foreign  businessmen  were  jailed  and  held  without  formal 
charges  and  without  benefit  of  trial.  In  August  1990,  authorities 
charged  the  chairman  and  other  officials  of  the  Movement  for 
Freedom  and  Justice,  a  political  group  that  advocated  greater 
respect  for  human  rights  and  democratization,  with  conspiracy 
and  publication  of  a  false  statement  regarding  their  detention. 
The  movement's  officials  later  retracted  their  charge  of  illegal 
detention  and  apologized  to  the  government. 

According  to  Africa  Watch,  the  Ghanaian  government  in 
1991  continued  to  hold  at  least  seventy-six  political  prisoners 
and  other  detainees.  In  a  radio  interview  on  May  31,  1991,  Sec- 
retary for  Foreign  Affairs  Obed  Asamoah  claimed  that  some  of 
these  detainees  were  subversives.  If  they  were  brought  to  trial, 
Asamoah  added,  they  would  be  convicted  and  executed.  In  late 


300 


National  Security 


1991,  the  PNDC  arrested  several  opposition  leaders  for  criticiz- 
ing the  Rawlings  regime.  Human-rights  advocates  also  reported 
various  examples  of  mistreatment  of  prisoners,  such  as  keeping 
them  in  isolation  for  long  periods  and  in  dark,  small  cells  with- 
out clothes  or  bedding.  During  political  demonstrations,  the 
police  were  often  accused  of  using  excessive  force  against  anti- 
government  elements. 

With  the  introduction  of  the  1992  constitution,  observers 
hoped  that  Ghana's  human  rights  record  would  improve 
because  the  new  constitution  contains  a  system  of  checks  and 
balances,  it  guarantees  basic  human  rights  and  freedoms,  and 
it  provides  for  an  autonomous  organization  called  the  Commis- 
sion on  Human  Rights  and  Administrative  Justice.  This  com- 
mission, established  in  September  1993,  is  empowered  to 
investigate  alleged  human  rights  violations,  and  it  may  take 
action  to  remedy  proven  abuses. 

When  the  commission  uncovers  a  human  rights  violation,  it 
can  seek  resolution  through  negotiation,  report  the  incident  to 
the  attorney  general  or  auditor  general,  or  institute  proceed- 
ings. As  of  late  1994,  the  commission  had  received  some  2,500 
complaints  and  petitions  from  Ghanaians  with  human  rights 
grievances  against  present  and  past  governments,  of  which 
about  1,000  had  been  dealt  with. 

Another  prominent  human  rights  organization  is  the  Ghana 
Committee  on  Human  and  People's  Rights.  Established  in 
early  1991  specifically  to  watch  for  and  to  publicize  violations  of 
basic  freedoms,  it  was  credited  with  contributing  to  an 
improved  human  rights  climate  in  the  early  1990s. 

Military  Trends 

Like  many  African  militaries,  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces  are 
in  a  state  of  transition.  In  the  past,  the  military  was  an  impor- 
tant instrument  of  state  power,  the  purposes  of  which  were  to 
defend  the  country's  national  security,  to  suppress  domestic 
dissidents,  and,  when  necessary,  to  assume  the  reins  of  govern- 
ment. In  the  1990s,  growing  popular  demands  for  a  better 
material  life,  for  democratization,  and  for  respect  for  human 
rights  are  slowly  changing  the  nature  of  Ghana's  military  estab- 
lishment. 

After  seizing  power  in  1981,  the  Rawlings  regime  assigned  a 
high  priority  to  economic  development,  and  it  downplayed  the 
necessity  for  a  large,  traditional  military.  As  part  of  an  interna- 
tional financial  and  economic  aid  program,  the  World  Bank 


301 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  IMF  forced  Ghana  to  keep  its  military  budget  low.  For 
this  reason,  there  have  been  no  major  weapons  purchases  for  at 
least  a  decade,  and  many  of  Ghana's  more  sophisticated  weap- 
ons systems  have  fallen  into  disrepair.  By  the  late  1980s,  it  had 
also  become  evident  that  most  Ghanaians  favored  a  multiparty, 
rather  than  a  military,  form  of  government  and  that  they 
opposed  the  use  of  the  armed  forces  as  an  instrument  to 
silence  political  debate. 

These  trends  are  likely  to  continue  for  the  foreseeable 
future.  By  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  additional 
budget  cuts  doubtless  will  have  further  reduced  the  size  of  the 
Ghanaian  armed  forces.  Moreover,  the  government  will  be 
increasingly  unwilling  or  unable  to  finance  the  high  costs  of 
acquiring,  operating,  and  maintaining  advanced  weapons. 

Despite  the  inevitable  downsizing  of  the  Ghanaian  military 
establishment,  Accra  undoubtedly  will  maintain  and  perhaps 
will  increase  its  commitment  to  international  peacekeeping 
forces.  Ghana  also  is  likely  to  support  efforts  to  persuade  the 
Organization  of  African  Unity  to  take  up  the  role  of  peace- 
keeper on  the  African  continent.  The  success  of  Ghana's  future 
participation  in  peacekeeping  operations  will  depend  on  the 
ability  of  its  armed  forces  to  adapt  to  highly  demanding  service 
in  far-off  countries. 

*         *  * 

Historically,  the  Ghanaian  armed  forces  have  played  a  signif- 
icant role  in  the  life  of  the  country.  As  a  result,  there  is  abun- 
dant literature  about  the  growth  and  the  development  of  the 
Ghanaian  military.  Useful  historical  works  include  Henry 
Brackenbury's  The  Ashanti  War:  A  Narrative,  Mary  Alice  Hodg- 
son's The  Siege  ofKumassi,  Alan  Lloyd's  The  Drums  of  Kumasi:  The 
Story  of  the  Ashanti  Wars,  and  Frederick  Myatt's  The  Golden  Stool: 
An  Account  of  the  Ashanti  War  of  1900. 

The  best  account  of  the  military  during  the  colonial  period 
is  The  History  of  the  Royal  West  African  Frontier  Force  by  A.  Hay- 
wood and  F.A.S.  Clarke.  Other  important  studies  of  this  era 
include  Hugh  Charles  Clifford's  The  Gold  Coast  Regiment  in  the 
East  African  Campaign  and  Sir  Charles  Prestwood  Lucas's  The 
Gold  Coast  and  the  War. 

The  postindependence  evolution  of  the  Ghanaian  armed 
forces  is  examined  in  Simon  Baynham's  The  Military  and  Politics 
in  Nkrumah's  Ghana,  Robert  Pickney's  Ghana  under  Military 


302 


National  Security 


Rule,  1966-1969,  Albert  Kwesi  Ocran's  Politics  of  the  Sword:  A  Per- 
sonal Memoir  on  Military  Involvement  in  Ghana  and  of  Problems  of 
Military  Government,  and  Politicians  and  Soldiers  in  Ghana,  1966- 
1972,  edited  by  Dennis  Austin  and  Robin  Luckham. 

Material  about  Ghana's  military  is  also  available  in  a  variety 
of  periodical  sources,  including  West  Africa,  African  Defence  Jour- 
nal, Africa  Research  Bulletin,  and  Africa  Confidential.  Other  useful 
publications  include  New  African,  Africa  Events,  and  The  Journal 
of  Modern  African  Studies.  Two  International  Institute  for  Strate- 
gic Studies  annuals,  The  Military  Balance  and  Strategic  Survey,  are 
essential  for  anyone  wishing  to  understand  the  evolution  of 
Ghana's  security  forces.  The  same  is  true  of  three  other  annu- 
als: Africa  Contemporary  Record,  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  and 
World  Armaments  and  Disarmament.  The  last  is  published  by  the 
Stockholm  International  Peace  Research  Institute.  (For  further 
information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


303 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  Distribution  by  Region,  1960,  1970,  and  1984 

3  Population  Density,  Growth  Rate,  and  Rural-Urban  Distri- 

bution by  Region,  1970-84 

4  Medical  and  Paramedical  Personnel  in  Government  Insti- 

tutions by  Region,  1989 

5  Enrollment  and  Gender  Breakdown  by  Education  Level, 

Selected  Academic  Years,  1980-81  to  1990-91 

6  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  at  Market  Prices,  Selected 

Years,  1986-92 

7  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1983  and  1991 

8  External  Debt,  Selected  Years,  1986-92 

9  Public  Finance,  Selected  Years,  1988-94 

10  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1986-94 

11  Major  Political  Parties  and  Military  Regimes,  1897-1994 

12  Voting  Patterns  in  the  District  Assembly  Elections  by  Re- 

gion, 1988-89 


305 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters   

0.04 

inches 

0.39 

inches 

Meters  

3.3 

feet 

Kilometers  

0.62 

miles 

Hectares  (10.0002)   

2.47 

acres 

Square  kilometers  

0.39 

square  miles 

Cubic  meters  

35.3 

cubic  feet 

0.26 

gallons 

Kilograms   

2.2 

pounds 

Metric  tons   

0.98 

long  tons 

1.1 

short  tons 

2,204 

pounds 

Degrees  Celsius  (Centigrade) 

1.8 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

and  add  32 


Table  2.  Population  Distribution  by  Region,  1960,  1970,  and  1984 

(in  thousands) 


Region  1960  1970  1984 


Ashanti    1,109.1  1,481.7  2,090.1 

Brong-Ahafo   587.9  766.5  1,206.6 

Central    751.4  890.1  1,142.3 

Eastern    777.3  1,209.8  1,680.9 

Greater  Accra   491.82  903.4  1,431.1 

Northern   531.6  727.6  1,164.6 

Upper  East     3  542.9  772.7 

Upper  West   757.33  319.9  438.  J 

Volta   1,094.2  947.3  1,211.9 

Western   626.2  770.1  1,157.8 

TOTAL    6,726.8  8,559.3  12,296.0 


1  Latest  available  data.  Ghana's  1994  population  is  estimated  at  17.2  million,  but  no  regional  breakdown  is 
available. 

2  Represents  only  Accra  administrative  area.  The  rest  of  what  is  now  Greater  Accra  Region  was  part  of  East- 
ern Region  in  1960. 

3  In  1960  Upper  East  and  Upper  West  regions  were  combined  in  Upper  Region. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Monthly  Economic  Bulletin,  Accra,  3,  May 

1970,  2;  Ghana,  Statistical  Service,  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statistics,  Accra,  December 
1991,  Table  95;  and  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  The  World  Fact- 
book,  Washington,  1994,  151. 


307 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Table  3.  Population  Density,  Growth  Rate,  and  Rural-Urban 
Distribution  by  Region,  1970-84 


Region 

4 

Area 

Population 
Density1 

Growth 
Rate2  - 

Population 
Distribution3 

1970 

1984 

Rural 

Urban 

24  389 

61 

86 

2 

5 

67.5 

32.5 

39,557 

19 

31 

3 

3 

73.4 

26.6 

Central   

9,826 

91 

116 

1 

8 

71.2 

28.8 

Eastern  

19,323 

63 

87 

2 

4 

72.3 

27.7 

Greater  Accra  

3,245 

278 

441 

3 

3 

17.0 

83.0 

Northern   

70,384 

10 

17 

3 

4 

74.8 

25.2 

Upper  East  

8,842 

61 

87 

2 

6 

87.1 

12.9 

Upper  West  

18,476 

17 

24 

2 

3 

89.1 

10.9 

Volta   

20,570 

46 

59 

1 

8 

79.5 

20.5 

Western  

23.921 

32 

48 

3 

0 

77.4 

22.6 

GHANA   

238,533 

36 

52 

2 

6 

68.0 

32.0 

1  Persons  per  square  kilometer. 

2  Average  annual  compound  rate  for  1970-84  period,  in  percentages. 

3  In  percentages,  for  1984;  towns  with  5,000  or  more  inhabitants. 

4  In  square  kilometers. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Statistical  Service,  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statis- 
tics, Accra,  December  1991,  Tables  94,  95,  and  96. 


308 


Appendix 


Q  « 
< 


3* 


©<O<MCO<Oif)^H00| 


c>  eo  ©  o  oo 
h   o   m   *  « 

CO     b     N     (N  rH 


CO  m  to  00  00  if) 
CO    (O    CM  i— '  I> 

(M   eo   o  <?j 


CO  CN 
lO    O  (N 

m   w   to  oo 


O    CO    1>    o  o 

i-i     rl      <N     CO     CO  <0 


H        I        I  I 


<0    ©    O  i-h 


1  3 


II  s 

I  GO 


TfOicooooomouOGOi— iooioo 

(TJt— i^iOtOi— ii— i  CO  (M  i— il  CM 

fH     <M  CO 


a  i3  S 


'5  8 

0  <- 
C  3 


3  S 
bo  <« 

'£  3 


-S  2 
S  a 
J=  < 
^  «  .£ 

ill 

j  c  v  o 
o  c  i 

111 


8 

i 

CO 


2  *I 

■So  Q 
.s  ^ 


S  u 


309 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


c  13. 


-Si 

3  O 


O  S 


pa 


•sl 

3  o 


_  c 

3  O 


5  g 
2  o 


<D  r-H 


00  1> 


<N  00 
If) 

in  rfi 


310 


Appendix 


v  6 

2  ° 


"§•8 
o  i 


03 


u  £ 
3  o 


ij 

«  ■a 


y  g 

-a  a 

3  O 


T3  a 
3  O 

«  d 

w 


•  |  o 


CO  ih 

©  00 

CM  J> 

r-"  cm" 


r~  1D|  cnt 

o  ^  ifl 

°°.  o  ^ 

CNJ        I  CO 


.z,  a 


Cvt  <0 
go   oo  i— i 
on  oo 


IB 

'33  0 


2  &  *  -a  13 


3£ 


o  o| 

m  00 


—  P, 


311 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


II 

31 


3  O 


o  g 


3  O 


31 


-si 

2  0 


3  g 

2  0 
N 


in 

<nj 

m 

m 
i> 

CO 

00 

t- 

<£> 

00 

<£>" 

1> 

CO  XO 


U 
o 

■  §i 


1 1 


a  3 
I  I 

If. 


Ills 

<6  o 


.5-3(2 


312 


Appendix 


Table  6.  Gross  Domestic  Product  ( GDP)  at  Market  Prices,  Selected 
Years,  1986-921 

1986  1988  1990  1992 


Total  GDP  (in  billions  of  cedis)2 


At  current  prices  

511 

1,051 

2,032 

3,009 

713 

787 

854 

934 

Real  change  (in  percentages)   

5.1 

5.5 

3.3 

3.9 

In  billions  of  United  States  dollars  

4.62 

5.11 

5.55 

6.06 

er  capita  GDP  (in  thousands  of  cedis) 

At  current  prices  

38.8 

74.8 

135.5 

188.5 

At  constant  1987  prices  

54.2 

56.0 

56.9 

58.5 

Real  change  (in  percentages)   

1.7 

2.2 

0.0 

0.9 

In  United  States  dollars   

352 

364 

369 

380 

Latest  available  data. 

For  value  of  the  cedi — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Statistical  Service,  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statis- 
tics, Accra,  December  1991,  Table  87;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Coun- 
try Profile:  Ghana,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  16. 


313 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Table  7.  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1983  and  1991 

1983  1991 
Sector  Value2       Percentage        Value2  Percentage 


Agriculture 


92  047 

50.0 

873  403 

33  Q 

Cocoa  production  and 

marketing  

10,227 

5.6 

244,602 

9.5 

5,609 

3.0 

99,986 

3.9 

2,044 

1.1 

33.942 

1.3 

Total  agriculture   

109,927 

59.7 

1,252,024 

48.6 

TnHii«ti*v 

Mining  and  (quarrying 

1  944 

1.1 

45,587 

1.8 

7,101 

3.9 

225,078 

8.7 

Electricity  and  water  

358 

0.2 

51,950 

2.0 

Construction  

2.796 

1.5 

89.195 

3.5 

Total  industry   

12,199 

6.6 

411,811 

16.0 

Services 

Transportation  and 

4.2 

communications   

7,663 

114,688 

4.5 

43,120 

23.4 

442,787 

17.2 

Finance  and  insurance  

3,311 

1.8 

107,391 

4.2 

Government  and  other   

8.670 

4.7 

243.456 

9.4 

Total  services  

62,764 

34.1 

908,322 

35.3 

Less  imputed  bank  service 

charges   

-2,259 

-1.2 

-35,461 

-1.4 

Import  duties  

1,407 

0.8 

38,077 

1.5 

GDP  at  market  prices  

184,038 

100.0 

2,574,774 

100.0 

Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

At  current  prices,  in  millions  of  cedis  (for  value  of  the  cedi — see  Glossary) . 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Statistical  Service,  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statis- 
tics, Accra,  1987,  Table  74;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile: 
Ghana,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  15. 


314 


Appendix 


Table  8.  External  Debt,  Selected  Years,  1986-921 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 

1986  1988  1990  1992 


External  debt 

Long-term   

Short-term  

IMF  credit2  

Total  external  debt   

Public  disbursed  debt 

Official  creditors  

Private  creditors  

Total  public  disbursed  debt  

Debt  service 

Principal  

Interest  

Total  debt  service  

Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 
IMF — see  Glossary. 


1,754 

2,214 

2,705 

3,131 

187 

72 

312 

404 

786 

762 

745 

740 

2,726 

3,048 

3,761 

4,275 

1,464 

1,892 

2,483 

2,894 

252 

290 

189 

202 

1,716 

2,182 

2,672 

3,096 

112 

424 

250 

185 

111 

128 

105 

115 

223 

552 

356 

300 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile: 
Ghana,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  34. 


Table  9.  Public  Finance,  Selected  Years,  1988-94 
(in  millions  of  cedisji 


1988 

1990 

1992 

1994 

Revenue  

153,791 

267,347 

400,000 

1,078,069 

-111,004 

-198,193 

-283,000 

-742,376 

Balance  

42,787 

69,154 

117,000 

335,693 

Development  expenditure  

-32,893 

-56,280 

-157,000 

-174,200 

Net  lending2  

-5,983 

-9,487 

n^3 

-93,457 

Overall  balance   

3,911 

3,387 

n.a. 

68,036 

Financing 

Domestic   

-6,166 

-27,977 

n.a. 

-151,813 

External  

2,255 

24,590 

n.a. 

83,777 

For  value  of  the  cedi — see  Glossary. 

Net  loans,  advances,  and  investment  in  public  boards,  corporations,  and  companies, 
n.a. — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Statistical  Service,  Quarterly  Digest  of  Statis- 
tics, Accra,  December  1991,  Table  33;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Coun- 
try Profile:  Ghana,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  28. 


315 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Table  10.  Balance  of  Payments,  Selected  Years,  1986-94 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1986 

1988 

1990 

1992 

19942 

Merchandise  exports  

773 

881 

891 

986 

1,246 

Merchandise  imports  

-713 

-993 

-1,199 

-1,457 

-1,760 

Trade  balance  

61 

-112 

-308 

-470 

-514 

Exports  of  services  

45 

78 

93 

129 

n.a.3 

Imports  of  services  

-344 

-400 

-429 

-505 

n.a. 

Net  private  transfers  

72 

172 

202 

255 

n.a. 

Net  official  transfers   

123 

196 

214 

214 

n.a. 

Current  account  balance   

-43 

-66 

-228 

-378 

-190 

4 

5 

15 

22 

n.a. 

Other  capital   

59 

204 

310 

299 

n.a. 

Capital  account  balance  

63 

209 

325 

321 

n.a. 

1  Figures  may  not  add  to  totals  because  of  rounding. 

2  Estimated. 

3  n.a. — not  available. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country  Profile: 
Ghana,  1993-94,  London,  1993,  32;  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country 
Report:  Ghana  [London],  No.  3,  1994,  6;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit, 
Country  Profile:  Ghana,  1994-95,  London,  1994,  32. 


316 


Appendix 


Table  11.  Major  Political  Parties  and  Military  Regimes,  1897-1994 


Period 


Description 


1897-1 920s  British  West  Africa  Aborigine  Rights  Protection  Society.  Founded  by  small 

urban  elite  to  protect  property  rights  from  British  encroachment.  Became 
limited  vehicle  for  later  tribal  leader  protest  as  well. 

1920s  National  Congress  of  British  West  Africa.  Regional  educated  elites'  first  effort 

to  influence  British  to  provide  some  elected  voice  for  Africans. 

1947-55  United  Gold  Coast  Convention  (UGCC).  Postwar  movement  of  educated 

Africans  demanding  a  voice  in  government.  Brought  Kwame  Nkrumah  back 
from  Britain  as  its  secretary. 

1949-66  Convention  People's  Party  (CPP) .  Founded  by  Nkrumah.  Served  as  main 

force  for  independence,  then  as  his  vehicle  to  power  and  rule.  Governing 
party,  1957-66.  Abolished  after  1966  coup. 

1954- 56  National  Liberation  Movement  (NLM).  Conservative,  federalist  opposition 

to  CPP  in  crucial  1956  election.  Largely  Asante-based.  Joined  United  Party 
(UP). 

1955-  1 960s  United  Party  (UP) .  Led  by  Kofi  A  Busia.  Unified  NLM  and  other  CPP  oppo- 

nents as  CPP's  primary  opposition.  Gradually  crushed  by  government. 

1966-70  National  Liberation  Council  (NLC) .  Name  adopted  by  army  and  police  lead- 

ers of  coup  that  overthrew  Nkrumah.  Dedicated  to  return  to  democratic 
civilian  rule. 

1969-72  Progress  Party  (PP) .  Led  by  Busia  and  consisting  of  former  UP  supporters. 

Won  1969  election.  Lost  support  of  people  and  army  through  efforts  to 
impose  order  on  country's  economy. 

National  Alliance  of  Liberals  (NAL).  Led  by  KA  Gbedemah  and  consisting 
of  other  followers  of  CPP's  right  wing.  Defeated  by  PP  in  1969.  Joined  others 
in  opposi  don  Justice  Party  (JP). 

1972-75  National  Redemption  Council  (NRC).  Name  adopted  by  Lieutenant  Colonel 

Ignatius  K  Acheampong  and  associates  after  overthrow  of  Busia  govern- 
ment. Ruled  country  without  civilian  input,  with  soldiers  assigned  to  every 
organization. 

1975-79  Supreme  Military  Council  (SMC).  Created  by  Acheampong  out  of  the  NRC. 

After  ouster  of  Acheampong  in  1978,  began  steps  toward  civilian  rule,  calling 
for  elections  in  June  1979.  On  eve  of  elections,  overthrown  byjunior  officers 
of  Armed  Forces  Revolutionary  Council  (AFRC) . 

1978-81  People's  National  Party  (PNP).  Created  t$>  contest  1979  elecdon.  Attracted 

former  NAL  members  and  others.  Chose  Hilla  Limann  as  its  candidate  and 
won  election  by  slim  majority. 

Popular  Front  Party  (PFP).  Party  of  former  Busia  supporters.  Formed  opposi- 
tion in  new  parliament. 

1979  Armed  Forces  Revolutionary  Council  (AFRC).  Name  adopted  by  Flight  Lieu- 

tenant Jerry  Rawlings  and  associates  after  Ghana's  first  violent  coup.  Without 
concrete  platform  except  to  punish  corruption.  Withdrew  in  favor  of  elected 
Limann  government  after  four  months  in  power. 

1982-92  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  (PNDC) .  Composed  of  leaders  of  Raw- 

lings's  second  coup.  With  considerable  evolution  of  personnel  and  objec- 
tives, continued  until  1992  to  be  sole  center  of  political  power  in  Ghana. 

1992-94  National  Democratic  Congress  (NDC) ,  National  Independence  Party  (NIP) , 

New  Patriotic  Party  (NPP),  People's  Heritage  Party  (PHP),  and  People's 
National  Convention  (PNC)  were  major  parties  organized  to  contest  1992 
presidential  election.  NDC  party  of  Rawlings  and  PNDC;  NPP  largely  Asante- 
based,  nominated  Adu  Boahen;  NIP,  PHP,  and  PNC  all  Nkrumahists.  NDC 


317 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Table  11.  Major  Political  Parties  and  Military  Regimes,  1897-1994 


Period 

Description 

1992-94 

elected,  formed  first  government  under  Fourth  Republic;  remaining  parties 

formed  opposition.  In  1993  NIP  and  PHP  formed  (new)  People's  Conven- 

tion Party  (PCP). 

Table  12.  Voting  Patterns  in  the  District  Assembly  Elections  by  Region, 

1988-89 


Region 

District 

Candidates 

Registered 
Voters 

Votes  Cast 

Percentage 
Turnout 

18 

2,211 

950,222 

577,735 

60.8 

Brong-Ahafo  

13 

1,629 

650,143 

391,489 

60.2 

Central   

12 

1,421 

549,564 

307,668 

56.0 

Eastern   

15 

1,825 

744,160 

452,449 

60.8 

Greater  Accra  

5 

693 

792,012 

350,861 

44.3 

Northern   

13 

1,471 

508,560 

308,191 

60.6 

Upper  East  

6 

822 

358,174 

222,068 

62.0 

Upper  West  

5 

458 

212,192 

143,017 

67.4 

Volta   

12 

1,343 

568,590 

334,445 

58.6 

Western  

11 

969 

589,221 

328,479 

55.3 

GHANA   

110 

12,842 

5,922,838 

3,416,402 

58.9 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Ghana,  Local  Government  Information  Digest,  Special 
Editions  I  and  II,  Nos.  4-5,  Accra,  1989. 


9 


318 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Afrifa,  Akwasi  A.  The  Ghana  Coup.  London:  Frank  Cass,  1966. 

Agbodeka,  Francis.  African  Politics  and  British  Policy  in  the  Gold 
Coast,  1868-1900.  Evanston,  Illinois:  Northwestern  Univer- 
sity Press,  1971. 

Alexander,  H.T.  African  Tightrope:  My  Two  Years  as  Nkrumah's 
Chief  of  Staff  New  York:  Praeger,  1966. 

Allman,  Jean  Marie.  The  Quills  of  the  Porcupine:  As  ante  National- 
ism in  an  Emergent  Ghana.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin 
Press,  1993. 

Anquandah,  James.  "The  Archaeological  Evidence  for  the 
Emergence  of  Akan  Civilization,"  Tarikh  [Ibadan],  7,  No.  2, 
1982,  9-21. 

Anquandah,  James.  Rediscovering  Ghana's  Past.  Essex:  Longman, 
1982. 

Apter,  David  E.  The  Gold  Coast  in  Transition.  Princeton:  Prince- 
ton University  Press,  1955.  Reprint.  Ghana  in  Trnsition  (2d 
rev.  ed.)  Princeton:  Princeton  University  Press,  1972. 

Arhin,  Kwame.  "The  Structure  of  Greater  Ashanti,"  Journal  of 
African  History  [Cambridge],  7,  No.  1,  1976,  65-85. 

Austin,  Dennis.  "Opposition  in  Ghana,  1947-67,"  Government 
and  Opposition  [London],  2,  No.  4,  October  1967,  539-55. 

Austin,  Dennis.  "Return  to  Ghana,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford], 
69,  No.  274,  January  1970,  67-71. 

Austin,  Dennis.  "The  Ghana  Armed  Forces  and  Ghanaian  Soci- 
ety," Third  World  Quarterly  [London],  7,  No.  1,  January  1985, 
90-101. 

Austin,  Dennis,  and  Robin  Luckham.  Politicians  and  Soldiers  in 
Ghana,  1966-1972.  London:  Frank  Cass,  1975. 

Boahen,  A.  Adu.  The  Ghanaian  Sphinx:  Reflections  on  the  Contem- 
porary History  of  Ghana,  1972-1987.  Accra  and  New  York: 
Ghana  Democratic  Movement,  1989. 

Bretton,  Henry  L.  The  Rise  and  Fall  of  Kwame  Nkrumah:  A  Study 
of  Personal  Rule  in  Africa.  New  York:  Praeger,  1966. 


319 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Busia,  Kofi  Abrefa.  The  Position  of  the  Chief  in  the  Modern  Political 
System  of  Ashanti.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1951. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  An  Anatomy  of  Ghanaian  Politics:  Managing  Polit- 
ical Recession,  1969-1982.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1983. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  "Liberalization,  Governance,  and  Political 
Space  in  Ghana."  Pages  121-41  in  Goran  Hyden  and 
Michael  Bratton  (eds.),  Governance  and  Politics  in  Africa.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1992. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  "The  Political  Transformation  of  Ghana  under 
the  PNDC."  Pages  21-47  in  Donald  Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana: 
the  Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1991. 

Claridge,  William  Walton.  A  History  of  the  Gold  Coast  and  Ashanti. 
(2  vols.)  London:  J.  Murray,  1915. 

Cooper,  Frederick.  "The  Problem  of  Slavery  in  African  Stud- 
ies," Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  20,  No.  1,  1979, 
103-25. 

Crowder,  Michael,  and  J.F.  Ade  Ajayi  (eds.).  History  of  West 
Africa.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1972. 

Cur  tin,  Philip  D.  The  Atlantic  Slave  Trade:  A  Census.  Madison: 
University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1969. 

Davidson,  Basil.  Black  Star:  A  View  of  the  Life  and  Times  ofKwame 
Nkrumah.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

Decalo,  Samuel.  Coups  and  Army  Rule  in  Africa:  Studies  in  Mili- 
tary Style.  New  Haven:  Yale  University  Press,  1976. 

Edsman,  Bjorn  M.  Lawyers  in  Gold  Coast  Politics,  ca.  1900-1945. 
Uppsala:  University  of  Uppsala,  1979. 

Fage,  J.D.  A  History  of  West  Africa:  An  Introductory  Survey.  (4th 
ed.)  London:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1969. 

Fage,  J.D.  "Slavery  and  the  Slave  Trade  in  the  Context  of  West 
African  History,"  Journal  of  African  History  [Cambridge],  10, 
No.  3, 1969,  393-404. 

Fage,  J.D.  "Reflections  on  the  Early  History  of  the  Mossi-Da- 
gomba  Group  of  States."  Pages  177-92  in  Jan  Vansina,  et  al. 
(eds.),  The  Historian  in  Tropical  Africa.  London:  Oxford  Uni- 
versity Press,  1964. 

Finley,  Moses  I.  Ancient  Slavery  and  Modern  Ideology.  Middlesex, 
United  Kingdom:  Penguin  Books,  1980. 


320 


Bibliography 


Fitch,  Robert  Beck,  and  Mary  Oppenheimer.  Ghana:  End  of  an 
Elusion.  New  York:  Monthly  Review  Press,  1966. 

Forde,  Daryll,  and  RM.  Kaberry  (eds.).  West  African  Kingdoms  in 
the  Nineteenth  Century.  London:  Oxford  University  Press  for 
the  International  African  Institute,  1967. 

Fynn,  John  K.  Asante  and  Its  Neighbours,  1700-1807.  London: 
Longman,  1971. 

Ghana.  Supreme  Military  Council.  Office  of  the  Press  Secre- 
tary. Fourth  Year  in  Office  of  Colonel  Ignatius  Kutu  Acheampong, 
13th  January  1975-1 2th  January  1976.  Accra:  Office  of  the 
Press  Secretary  of  the  SMC,  1976. 

Ghana.  General  Kutu  Acheampong:  The  Fifth  Milestone,  13  January 
1976-12 January  1977.  Accra:  Office  of  the  Press  Secretary  of 
the  SMC,  1977. 

Goldsworthy,  David.  "Ghana's  Second  Republic:  A  Post  Mor- 
tem," African  Affairs  [Oxford],  72,  No.  286,  1973,  8-25. 

Hailey,  William  M.  Native  Administration  in  the  British  African  Ter- 
ritories, Part  III:  West  Africa.  London:  HMSO,  1951. 

Hargreaves,  John  D.  The  End  of  Colonial  Rule  in  West  Africa.  New 
York:  Barnes  and  Noble,  1979. 

Harrell-Bond,  Barbara  E.  Ghana's  Troubled  Transition  to  Civilian 
Government.  (American  Universities  Field  Staff,  Fieldstaff 
Reports,  No.  48.)  Hanover,  New  Hampshire:  AUFS,  1979. 

Harrell-Bond,  Barbara  E.  Diary  of  a  Revolution  'Which  Might 
Have  Been.'  (American  Universities  Field  Staff,  Fieldstaff 
Reports,  Nos.  24-25.)  Hanover,  New  Hampshire:  AUFS, 
1980. 

Haynes,  Jeff.  "Human  Rights  and  Democracy  in  Ghana:  The 
Record  of  the  Rawlings  Regime,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford], 
90,  No.  360,  July  1991,  407-25. 

Haynes,  Jeff.  "The  PNDC  and  Political  Decentralization  in 
Ghana,  1981-91,"  Journal  of  Commonwealth  and  Comparative 
Politics  [London],  29,  No.  3,  November  1991,  283-307. 

Howard,  Rhoda.  Colonialism  and  Underdevelopment  in  Ghana. 
New  York:  Africana,  1978. 

Hyden,  Goran,  and  Michael  Bratton  (eds.).  Governance  and  Pol- 
itics in  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1992. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Ghana:  Adjustment  and  Growth, 
1 983-1 991.  Washington:  1991. 


321 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Jeffries,  Richard.  "Rawlings  and  the  Political  Economy  of 

Underdevelopment  in  Ghana,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford],  81, 

No.  324,  July  1982,  307-17. 
Jeffries,  Richard.  "The  Ghanaian  Elections  of  1979,"  African 

Affairs  [Oxford],  79,  No.  316,  July  1980,  397-414. 
Kimble,  David.  A  Political  History  of  Ghana,  1850-1928.  London: 

Clarendon  Press,  1963. 
Kraus,  Jon.  "Arms  and  Politics  in  Ghana."  Pages  154-221  in 

Claude  E.  Welch,  Jr.  (ed.),  Soldier  and  State  in  Africa:  A  Com- 
parative Analysis  of  Military  Intervention  and  Political  Change. 

Evanston,  Illinois:  Northwestern  University  Press,  1970. 
Ladouceur,  Paul  Andre.  Chiefs  and  Politicians:  The  Politics  of 

Regionalism  in  Northern  Ghana.  London:  Longman,  1979. 
Lawrence,  Arnold  Walter.  Trade,  Castles,  and  Forts  of  West  Africa. 

Stanford:  Stanford  University  Press,  1964. 
Lawrence,  Arnold  Walter.  Fortified  Trade-posts:  The  English  in  West 

Africa,  1645-1822.  London:  Jonathan  Cape,  1969. 
LeVine,  Victor  T.  Political  Corruption:  The  Ghana  Case.  Stanford: 

Hoover  Institution  Press,  1975. 
Levtzion,  Nehemia.  Muslims  and  Chiefs  in  West  Africa.  Oxford: 

Clarendon  Press,  1968. 
Lugard,  Frederick.  The  Dual  Mandate  in  British  Tropical  Africa. 

Edinburgh:  Blackwood,  1922. 
Lystad,  Robert.  The  Ashanti.  New  Brunswick:  Rutgers  University 

Press,  1958. 

McCaskie,  Thomas.  "Komfo  Anokye  of  Asante:  Meaning,  His- 
tory and  Philosophy  in  an  African  Society,"  fournal  of  African 
History  [Cambridge] ,  27,  No.  2,  1986,  315-39. 

McCaskie,  Thomas.  State  and  Society  in  Precolonial  Asante.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambrige  University  Press,  1995. 

Makepeace,  Margaret.  "English  Traders  on  the  Gold  Coast, 
1657-1668:  An  Analysis  of  the  East  India  Company 
Archives,"  History  in  Africa,  16,  1989,  237-84. 

Martin,  Eveline  Christiana.  The  British  West  African  Settlements, 
1750-1821.  London:  Longmans,  Green,  for  the  Royal  Colo- 
nial Institute,  1927. 

Mbaeyi,  Paul  Mmegha.  British  Military  and  Naval  Forces  in  West 
African  History,  1807-1874.  New  York:  Nok,  1978. 

Metcalfe,  George  E.  Maclean  of  the  Gold  Coast.  London:  Oxford 
University  Press,  1962. 


322 


Bibliography 


Meyerowitz,  Eva  L.R.  The  Early  History  of  theAkan  States  of  Ghana. 

London:  Red  Candle  Press,  1974. 
Ninsin,  Kwame.  "Ghanaian  Politics  After  1981:  Revolution  or 

Evolution?"  Canadian  Journal  of  African  Studies  [Ottawa],  21, 

No.l,  1987, 17-37. 
Ninsin,  Kwame,  and  F.K.  Drah  (eds.).  The  Search  for  Democracy  in 

Ghana:  A  Case  Study  of  Political  Instability  in  Africa.  Accra: 

Asempa,  1987. 

Nkrumah,  Kwame.  Cons ciencism:  Philosophy  and  Ideology  of  Decolo- 
nization and  Development  with  Particular  Reference  to  the  African 
Revolution.  London:  Heinemann,  1964.  Reprint.  New  York: 
Monthly  Review  Press,  1970. 

Nkrumah,  Kwame.  Africa  Must  Unite.  New  York:  Praeger,  1963. 

Nkrumah,  Kwame.  I  Speak  of  Freedom:  A  Statement  of  African  Ideol- 
ogy. London:  Heinemann,  1961. 

Nkrumah,  Kwame.  Neo-Colonialism:  The  Last  Stage  of  Imperialism. 
London:  Nelson,  1965. 

Omari,  T.  Peter.  Kwame  Nkrumah:  Anatomy  of  an  African  Dictator- 
ship. New  York:  Africana,  1970. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Ghana:  What  Went  Wrong,  A  Response," 
Africa  Today,  19,  No.  2,  1972,  77-80. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Politics  Without  Parties:  Reflections  on  the 
Union  Government  Proposals  in  Ghana,"  African  Studies 
Review,  22,  No.  1,  April  1979,  89-108. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "The  Search  for  Solvency:  Background  to  the 
Fall  of  Ghana's  Second  Republic,  1969-1972,"  Africa  Today, 
19,  No.  1,  1972,52-60. 

Owusu-Ansah,  David.  Islamic  Talismanic  Tradition  in  Nineteenth- 
Century  Asante.  Lewiston,  New  York:  Edwin  Mellen  Press, 
1991.  ' 

Owusu-Ansah,  David.  "The  Provisional  National  Defence  Coun- 
cil of  Ghana:  A  Move  Toward  Consolidation,"  International 
Third  World  Studies  Journal  and  Review,  1,  No.  1,  1989,  213-18. 

Owusu-Ansah,  David,  and  Daniel  M.  McFarland.  Historical  Dic- 
tionary of  Ghana.  (2d  ed.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow 
Press,  1995. 

Pellow,  Deborah,  and  Naomi  Chazan.  Ghana:  Coping  with  Uncer- 
tainty. Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1986. 

Pinkney,  Robert.  Ghana  under  Military  Rule:  1966-1969.  Lon- 
don: Methuen,  1972. 


323 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Rathbone,  Richard  (ed.).  British  Documents  on  the  End  of  Empire. 
Series  B,  Volume  1,  Ghana,  Part  1,  1941-1952;  Part  II,  1952- 
1957.  London:  HMSO  for  the  Institute  of  Commonwealth 
Studies,  1992. 

Rattray,  Robert,  S.  Ashanti  Law  and  Constitution.  London:  Clar- 
endon Press,  1929. 

Robertson,  Claire  C,  and  Martin  Klein.  Women  and  Slavery  in 
Africa.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1983. 

Rodney,  Walter.  How  Europe  Underdeveloped  Africa.  Washington: 
Howard  University  Press,  1982. 

Rothchild,  Donald  (ed.).  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recov- 
ery. Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Schildkrout,  Enid.  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante  Center 
and  Periphery.  (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York: 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Schleh,  Eugene  P.  A.  "The  Post-War  Careers  of  Ex-Servicemen 
in  Ghana  and  Uganda,"  /owrna/  of  Modern  African  Studies 
[Cambridge] ,  6,  No.  2,  August  1968,  203-20. 

Shillington,  Kevin.  Ghana  and  the  Rawlings  Factor.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1992. 

Smith,  Robert  S.  Warfare  and  Diplomacy  in  Pre-Colonial  West 
Africa.  London:  Methuen,  1976. 

Stride,  G.T.,  and  Caroline  Ifeka.  Peoples  and  Empires  of  West 
Africa:  1000-1800.  New  York:  Africana,  1971. 

Vansina,  Jan,  et  al.  (eds.).  The  Historian  in  Tropical  Africa.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1964. 

Vogt,  John.  Portuguese  Rule  on  the  Gold  Coast,  1469-1682.  Athens, 
Georgia:  University  of  Georgia  Press,  1979. 

Ward,  William  Ernest.  A  History  of  Ghana.  London:  Allen  and 
Unwin,  1958. 

Welch,  Claude  E.,Jr.  (ed.).  Soldier  and  State  in  Africa:  A  Compara- 
tive Analysis  of  Military  Intervention  and  Political  Change.  Evan- 
ston,  Illinois:  Northwestern  University  Press,  1970. 

Wilks,  Ivor  G.  Asante  in  the  Nineteenth  Century:  The  Structure  and 
Evolution  of  a  Political  Order.  London:  Cambrige  University 
Press,  1975.  Reprint.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1989. 

Wilks,  Ivor  G.  Forests  of  Gold:  Essays  on  the  Akan  and  the  Kingdom 
of  Asante.  Athens:  Ohio  University  Press,  1993. 


324 


Bibliography 


Wilks,  Ivor  G.  "The  Mossi  and  Akan  States,  1500-1800."  Pages 
344-86  in  Michael  Crowder  and  J.F.  Ade  Ajayi  (eds.),  History 
of  West  Africa.  New  York:  Columbia  University  Press,  1972. 

Wilks,  Ivor  G.  "The  State  of  the  Akan  and  the  Akan  State:  A  Dis- 
cussion," Cahier d' Etudes  Africaines  [Paris],  22,  Nos.  3-4,  1982, 
231-49. 

Wilks,  Ivor,  Nehemia  Levtzion,  and  Bruce  M.  Haight.  Chronicles 
from  Gonja:  A  Tradition  of  West  African  Muslim  Historiography. 
Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1986. 

Wraith,  R.E.  Guggisberg.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1967. 

Yarak,  Larry  W.  Asante  and  the  Dutch.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1990. 

Young,  Crawford.  Ideology  and  Development  in  Africa.  New  Haven: 
Yale  University  Press,  1982. 

Young,  Crawford.  Politics  in  the  Congo.  Evanston,  Illinois:  North- 
western University  Press,  1968. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Report,  Current  History, 
Ghanaian  Times  [Accra],  People's  Daily  Graphic  [Accra],  and 
Workers'  Banner  [Accra] .) 


Chapter  2 

Amedekey,  E.Y  The  Culture  of  Ghana:  A  Bibliography.  Accra: 

Ghana  Universities  Press,  1970. 
Amonoo,  Reginald  F.  Language  and  Nationhood:  Reflections  on 

Language  Situations  with  Particular  Reference  to  Ghana.  Accra: 

Ghana  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  1989. 
Anquandah,  James.  Rediscovering  Ghana' s  Past.  Essex:  Longman, 

1982. 

Arhin,  Kwame.  West  African  Traders  in  Ghana  in  the  Nineteenth 

and  Twentieth  Centuries.  London:  Longman,  1979. 
Arhin,  Kwame.  Traditional  Rule  in  Ghana:  Past  and  Present. 

Accra:  Sedco,  1985. 
Awoonor,  Kofi  Nyidevu.  Ghana:  A  Political  History  from  Pre-Euro- 

pean  to  Modern  Times.  Accra:  Sedco  and  Woeli,  1990. 
Beecham,  John.  Ashantee  and  the  Gold  Coast.  London,  John 

Mason,  1841.  Reprint.  New  York:  Johnson  Reprint  Corp., 

1970. 


325 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Belcher,  Wendy  Laura.  Honey  from  the  Lion:  An  African  Journey. 
New  York:  Dutton,  1988. 

Boahen,  A.  Adu.  The  Ghanaian  Sphinx:  Reflections  on  the  Contem- 
porary History  of  Ghana,  1972-1987.  New  York:  Greenwood 
Press,  1989. 

Boahen,  A.  Adu.  Ghana:  Evolution  and  Change  in  the  Nineteenth 
and  Twentieth  Centuries.  London:  Longman,  1975. 

Boateng,  E.  A.  A  Geography  of  Ghana.  (2d  ed.)  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1966. 

Bos,  Eduard,  My  T.  Vu,  Ann  Levin,  and  Rodolfo  A.  Bulatao. 
World  Population  Projections,  1 992-93 Edition:  Estimates  and  Pro- 
jections with  Related  Demographic  Statistics.  Baltimore:  Johns 
Hopkins  University  Press,  1992. 

Busia,  Kofi  Abrefa.  The  Position  of  the  Chief  in  the  Modern  Political 
System  of  Ashanti.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1951. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  An  Anatomy  of  Ghanaian  Politics:  Managing  Polit- 
ical Recession,  1969-82.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1983. 

Clark,  J.D.,  and  S.A.  Brandt  (eds.).  From  Hunters  to  Farmers:  The 
Courses  and  Consequences  of  Food  Production  in  Africa.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1984. 

Cobbe,  James.  "The  Political  Economy  of  Education  Reform  in 
Ghana."  Pages  101-15  in  Donald  Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana: 
The  Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1991. 

Crossland,  L.B.  "Traditional  Textile  Industry  in  Northwest 
Brong  Ahafo,  Ghana — The  Archeological  and  Contempo- 
rary Evidence,"  Sankofa  [Legon],  1,  1975,  69-73. 

Dickson,  Kwamina  B.  A  Historical  Geography  of  Ghana.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1971. 

Dzobo,  N.K.  "Introduction  to  the  Indigenous  Ethic  of  the  Ewe 
of  West  Africa,"  The  Oguaa  Educator  [Cape  Coast],  6,  No.  1, 
1975,  82-97. 

Effah-Gyamfi,  Kwaku.  Bono  Manso:  An  Archaeological  Investiga- 
tion into  Early  Akan  Urbanism.  Calgary:  University  of  Calgary 
Press,  1985. 

Ehret,  C,  and  M.  Posnansky  (eds.).  The  Archaeological  and  Lin- 
guistic Reconstruction  of  African  History.  Berkeley:  University  of 
California  Press,  1982. 


326 


Bibliography 


Field,  Margaret  J.  Social  Organization  of  the  Ga  People.  Accra: 

Crown  Agents  for  the  Colonies,  1940. 
Garrard,  Timothy  F.  Akan  Weights  and  the  Gold  Trade.  London: 

Longman,  1980. 
Ghana.  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics.  Preliminary  Report  on  the 

1984  Census.  Accra:  1985. 
Ghana.  Statistical  Service.  1984  Population  Census  of  Ghana: 

Demography  and  Economic  Characteristics.  11  vols.  Accra:  1990. 
Goody,  Jack.  Literacy  in  Traditional  Societies.  London:  Cambridge 

University  Press,  1968. 
Goody,  Jack.  Production  and  Reproduction:  A  Comparative  Study  of 

the  Domestic  Domain.  Cambridge  and  New  York:  Cambridge 

University  Press,  1976. 
Goody,  Jack.  The  Social  Organization  of  the  Lo  Wiili.  London: 

Oxford  University  Press  for  the  International  African  Insti- 
tute, 1967. 

Hansen,  Emmanuel,  and  Kwame  A.  Ninsin  (eds.).  The  State, 

Development,  and  Politics  in  Ghana.  London:  Codesria,  1989. 
Johnson,  Marion.  "Ashanti  East  of  the  Volta,"  Transactions  of  the 

Historical  Society  of  Ghana  [Legon],  8,  1965,  33-59. 
Johnson,  Marion.  "The  Population  of  Asante,  1817-1921:  A 

Reconsideration,"  Asantesem,  8,  1978,  22-27. 
Kiyaga-Mulindwa,  David.  "Archaeological  and  Historical 

Research  in  the  Birim  Valley,"  Sankofa  [Legon],  2,  1976,  90- 

91. 

Kropp  Dakubu,  M.E.  "Linguistic,  Prehistoric  and  Historical 

Reconstruction  of  the  Ga-Dangbe  Migration,"  Transactions  of 

the  Historical  Society  of  Ghana  [Legon],  13,  1972,  87-111. 
Kropp  Dakubu,  M.E.  (ed.).  The  Languages  of  Ghana.  London: 

Kegan  Paul  for  the  International  African  Institute,  1988. 
Manoukian,  Madeline.  Akan  and  Ga-Adangme  Peoples  of  the  Gold 

Coast.  London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1950. 
Martin,  Bradford  G.  "Arabic  Materials  for  Ghanaian  History," 

Research  Review  [Legon],  2,  No.  1,  1965,  74-83. 
Meillassoux,  Claude.  The  Development  of  Indigenous  Trade  and 

Markets  in  West  Africa.  London:  Oxford  University  Press, 

1971. 

Mikell,  Gwendolyn.  "Equity  Issues  in  Ghana's  Rural  Develop- 
ment." Pages  85-100  in  Donald  Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana:  The 


327 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rien- 
ner,  1991. 

Morrison,  Minion.  Ethnicity  and  Political  Integration:  The  Case  of 

Ashanti,  Ghana.  Syracuse:  Maxwell  School  of  Citizenship  and 

Public  Affairs,  1981. 
Ninsin,  Kwame,  and  F.K.  Drah  (eds.).  The  Search  for  Democracy  in 

Ghana:  A  Case  Study  of  Political  Instability  in  Africa.  Accra: 

Asempa,  1987. 

Nketia,  Kwabena  J.H.  "The  Musical  Traditions  of  the  Akan," 
Tarikh  [Ibadan],  7,  No.  2,  1982,  47-59. 

Oppenheim,  Mason.  The  Status  of  Women:  A  Review  of  Its  Relation- 
ship to  Fertility  and  Mortality.  New  York:  Rockefeller  Founda- 
tion, 1984. 

Oppong,  Christine,  and  Katharine  Abu.  Seven  Roles  of  Women: 
Impact  of  Education,  Migration  and  Employment  on  Ghanaian 
Mothers.  Geneva:  International  Labour  Office,  1987. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  Uses  and  Abuses  of  Political  Power:  A  Case  Study  of 
Continuity  and  Change  in  the  Politics  of  Ghana.  Chicago:  Uni- 
versity of  Chicago  Press,  1970. 

Owusu-Ansah,  David.  Islamic  Talismanic  Tradition  in  Nineteenth- 
Century  Asante.  Lewiston,  New  York:  Edwin  Mellen  Press, 
1991.  ' 

Owusu-Ansah,  David,  and  Daniel  M.  McFarland.  Plistorical  Dic- 
tionary of  Ghana.  (2d  ed.)  Metuchen,  New  Jersey:  Scarecrow 
Press,  1995. 

Plass,  Margaret  Webster.  African  Miniatures:  The  Goldweights  of 
the  Ashanti.  London:  Lund  Humphries,  1967. 

Posnansky,  Merrick.  "Archaeological  and  Linguistic  Recon- 
struction in  Ghana."  Pages  256-66  in  C.  Ehret  and  M.  Pos- 
nansky (eds.) ,  The  Archaeological  and  Linguistic  Reconstruction 
of  African  History.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press, 
1982. 

Posnansky,  Merrick.  "Early  Agricultural  Societies  in  Ghana." 
Pages  147-51  in  J.D.  Clark  and  S.A.  Brandt  (eds.),  From 
Hunters  to  Farmers:  The  Courses  and  Consequences  of  Food  Produc- 
tion in  Africa.  Berkeley:  University  of  California  Press,  1984. 

Quarcoo,  Alfred  K.  "The  Ancestors  in  Ghanaian  Religious  and 
Social  Behavior,"  Research  Review  [Legon],  3,  No.  2,  1967,  39- 
50. 


328 


Bibliography 


Rattray,  Robert  S.  Akan-Ashanti  Folk-Tales.  London:  Oxford  Uni- 
versity Press,  1930. 

Rattray,  Robert  S.  Ashanti  Law  and  Constitution.  London:  Clar- 
endon Press,  1929. 

Rattray,  Robert  S.  Ashanti  Proverbs.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press, 
1916. 

Rattray,  Robert  S.  Religion  and  Art  in  Ashanti.  Oxford:  Claren- 
don Press,  1923. 

Robertson,  Claire.  "Economic  Women  in  Africa:  Profit-Making 
Techniques  of  Accra  Market  Women,"  Journal  of  Modern  Afri- 
can Studies,  12,  No.  4,  1974,  657-64. 

Robertson,  Claire,  and  Martin  Klein.  Women  and  Slavery  in 
Africa.  Madison:  University  of  Wisconsin  Press,  1983. 

Rothchild,  Donald  (ed.).  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recov- 
ery. Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Sarfoh,  Joseph  A.  Population,  Urbanization,  and  Rural  Settlement 
in  Ghana:  A  Bibliographic  Survey.  New  York:  Greenwood  Press, 
1987. 

Sarpong,  Peter  K.  Ghana  in  Retrospect:  Some  Aspects  of  Ghanaian 
Culture.  Tema:  Ghana  Publishing,  1974. 

Sarpong,  Peter  K.  The  Sacred  Stools  of  the  Akan.  Tema:  Ghana 
Publishing,  1971. 

Schildkrout,  Enid.  People  of  the  Zongo:  The  Transformation  of  Eth- 
nic Identities  in  Ghana.  New  York:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1978. 

Schildkrout,  Enid  (ed.).  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante 
Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  Ameri- 
can Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York: 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Shinnie,  Peter  L.  "Archaeology  in  Gonja  and  Asante  Connec- 
tions." Pages  23-28  in  Enid  Schildkrout  (ed.),  The  Golden 
Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthropologi- 
cal Papers  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol. 
65,  Part  1.)  New  York:  American  Museum  of  Natural  History, 
1987. 

Shinnie,  Peter  L.  Archaeology  of  Gonja,  Ghana:  Excavations  at 
Daboya.  Calgary:  Calgary  University  Press,  1989. 

Sillah,  Mohammed-Bassiru.  African  Coup  dEtat:  A  Case  Study  of 
Jerry  Rawlings  in  Ghana.  Lawrenceville,  Virginia:  Brunswick, 
1984. 


329 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Silverman,  Raymond,  and  David  Owusu-Ansah.  "The  Presence 
of  Islam  among  the  Akan  of  Ghana:  A  Bibliographic  Essay," 
History  in  Africa,  16,  1989,  325-39. 

United  Nations.  Demographic  Yearbook,  1991.  New  York:  1992. 

United  Nations.  Statistical  Yearbook,  1990-91.  New  York:  1993. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1994.  Washington:  GPO,  1994. 

University  of  Ghana.  Regional  Institute  for  Population  Studies. 
Population  of  Ghana:  An  Annotated  Bibliography,  1980-1988. 
Addis  Ababa:  Population  Division,  United  Nations  Economic 
Commission  for  Africa,  1988. 

Vansina,Jan,  et  al.  (eds.).  The  Historian  in  Tropical  Africa.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1964. 

Wilks,  Ivor  G.  Asante  in  the  Nineteenth  Century:  The  Structure  and 
Evolution  of  a  Political  Order.  London:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1975.  Reprint.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University 
Press,  1989. 

Yankah,  Kwesi.  Woes  of  a  Kwatriot:  Reflections  on  the  Ghanaian  Sit- 
uation. Accra:  Woeli,  1990. 

Zedlitz,  Albrecht  von.  Ethnisch-nationale  Integration  und  Erzie- 
hung  in  Ghana:  Ethnische  und  Nationale  Einstellungen  unter  den 
Fante,  Asante,  Dagbamba  und  Ewe.  Hohenschaftlarn:  K.  Ren- 
ner,  1984. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Ghanaian  Times  [Accra]; 
Monthly  Economic  Bulletin  [Accra];  People's  Daily  Graphic  [Accra]; 
Quarterly  Digest  of  Statistics  [Accra];  and  West  Africa  [London].) 


Chapter  3 

Africa  South  of  the  Sahara,  1995.  (24th  ed.)  London:  Europa, 
1994. 

Adhikari,  R.,  C.  Kirkpatrick,  and  J.  Weiss  (eds.).  Industrial  and 

Trade  Policy  Reform  in  Developing  Countries.  Manchester: 

Manchester  University  Press,  1992. 
Agbodeka,  Francis.  An  Economic  History  of  Ghana  from  the  Earliest 

Times.  Legon:  Ghana  Universities  Press,  1993. 
Akuoko-Frimpong,  H.  "Ghana:  Capacity  Building  for  Policy 

Change."  Pages  19-36  in  Louis  A.  Picard  and  Michele  Gar- 


330 


Bibliography 


rity  (eds.) ,  Policy  Reform  for  Sustainable  Development  in  Africa: 
The  Institutional  Imperative.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rien- 
ner,  1994. 

Anin,  T.E.  Essays  on  the  Political  Economy  of  Ghana.  Accra:  Selwyn, 
1991. 

Anyemedu,  Kwasi.  "Export  Diversification  Under  the  Eco- 
nomic Recovery  Program."  Pages  209-20  in  Donald  Roth- 
child  (ed.),  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Aryeetey,  Ernest.  "Private  Investment  Under  Uncertainty  in 
Ghana,"  World  Development  [Oxford]  22,  No.  8,  August  1994, 
1211-21. 

Bank  of  Ghana.  "Ghana's  Stabilisation  Measures  and  the  IMF: 
A  Case  Study,"  Africa  Development  [Dakar],"  10,  1985. 

Beckman,  Bjorn.  Organizing  the  Farmers:  Cocoa  Politics  and 
National  Development  in  Ghana.  Uppsala:  Scandinavian  Insti- 
tute of  African  Studies,  1976. 

Chand,  Sheetal  K.,  and  Reinold  van  Til.  "Ghana:  Toward  Suc- 
cessful Stabilization  and  Recovery,"  Finance  and  Development, 
25,  No.  1,  March  1988,  32-35. 

Cohen,  Robin,  and  Harry  Goulbourne  (eds.).  Democracy  and 
Socialism  in  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 

Cruise  O'Brien,  Donal  B.,  John  Dunn,  and  Richard  Rathbone 
(eds.).  Contemporary  West  African  States.  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1989. 

Daaku,  Kwame  Yeboah.  Trade  and  Politics  on  the  Gold  Coast, 
1600-1 720:  A  Study  of  the  African  Reaction  to  European  Trade. 
London:  Clarendon,  1970. 

Duncan,  Alex,  and  John  Howell.  Structural  Adjustment  and  the 
African  Farmer.  London:  Overseas  Development  Institute, 
1992. 

Ewusi,  Kodwo.  Structural  Adjustment  and  Stabilization  Policies  in 
Developing  Countries:  A  Case  Study  of  Ghana's  Experience,  1983- 
1986.  Tema:  Ghana  Publishing,  1987. 

Fontaine,  Jean-Marc.  "Bias  Overkill?  Removal  of  Anti-export 
Bias  and  Manufacturing  Investment:  Ghana,  1983-89."  Pages 
120-34  in  R.  Adhikari,  C.  Kirkpatrick,  and  J.  Weiss  (eds.), 
Industrial  and  Trade  Policy  Reform  in  Developing  Countries. 
Manchester:  Manchester  University  Press,  1992. 


331 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Ghana.  Economic  Recovery  Programme,  1984-1986:  Review  of 
Progress  in  1984  and  Goals  for  1985,  1986:  Report.  Accra:  1983. 

Ghana.  National  Programme  for  Economic  Development,  Revised, 
Wednesday,  1st  July  1987.  Accra:  1987. 

Ghana.  Programme  of  Action  to  Mitigate  the  Social  Costs  of  Adjust- 
ment. Accra:  1987. 

Green,  Reginald  H.  Stabilization  and  Adjustment  Policies  and  Pro- 
grams: Country  Study  1:  Ghana.  Helsinki:  World  Institute  for 
Development  Economics  Research  of  the  United  Nations 
University,  1987. 

Gyimah-Boadi,  E.  "State  Enterprises  Divestiture:  Recent  Ghana- 
ian Experiences."  Pages  193-208  in  Donald  Rothchild,  (ed.), 
Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Hansen,  Emmanuel,  and  Kwame  A.  Ninsin  (eds.).  The  State, 
Development,  and  Politics  in  Ghana.  London:  Codesria,  1989. 

Haynes,  Jeff.  "Inching  Towards  Democracy:  The  Ghanaian 
'Revolution,'  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  and  the  Poli- 
tics of  the  Possible."  Pages  142-64  in  Robin  Cohen  and 
Harry  Goulbourne  (eds.),  Democracy  and  Socialism  in  Africa. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1991. 

Herbst,  Jeffrey.  The  Politics  of  Reform  in  Ghana,  1982-1991.  Ber- 
keley: University  of  California  Press,  1993. 

Hill,  Polly.  The  Migrant  Cocoa-Farmers  of  Southern  Ghana:  A  Study 
in  Rural  Capitalism.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press, 
1963. 

Howard,  Rhoda  E.  Colonialism  and  Underdevelopment  in  Ghana. 
London:  Croom  Helm,  1978. 

Huq,  M.M.  The  Economy  of  Ghana:  The  First  25  Years  Since  Indepen- 
dence. New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1989. 

Hutchful,  Eboe.  The  IMF  and  Ghana:  The  Confidential  Record. 
London:  Institute  for  African  Alternatives,  1987. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Ghana:  Adjustment  and  Growth, 
1983-1991.  Washington:  1991. 

Jakobeit,  Cord.  "Reviving  Cocoa:  Policies  and  Perspectives  on 
Structural  Adjustment  in  Ghana's  Key  Agricultural  Sector." 
Pages  221-32  in  Donald  Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana:  The  Political 
Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 


332 


Bibliography 


Jebuni,  CD.,  A.D.  Oduro,  and  K.A.  Tutu.  "Trade  and  Payments 
Regime  and  the  Balance  of  Payments  in  Ghana,"  World  Devel- 
opment [Oxford],  22,  No.  8,  August  1994,  1161-73. 

Jeffries,  Richard.  "Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Personal 
Rule."  Pages  75-98  in  Donal  B.  Cruise  O'Brien,  John  Dunn, 
and  Richard  Rathbone  (eds.),  Contemporary  West  African 
States.  Cambridge:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1989. 

Killick,  Tony.  Development  Economics  in  Action:  A  Study  of  Economic 
Policies  in  Ghana.  London:  Heinemann,  1978. 

Kraus,  Jon.  "The  Political  Economy  of  Stabilization  and  Struc- 
tural Adjustment  in  Ghana."  Pages  119-56  in  Donald  Roth- 
child  (ed.),  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Martin,  Matthew.  "Negotiating  Adjustment  and  External 
Finance:  Ghana  and  the  International  Community,  1982- 

1989.  "  Pages  235-63  in  Donald  Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana:  The 
Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rien- 
ner, 1991. 

Mikell,  Gwendolyn.  Cocoa  and  Chaos  in  Ghana.  New  York:  Para- 
gon House,  1989. 

Nugent,  Paul.  "Educating  Rawlings:  The  Evolution  of  Govern- 
ment Strategy  Toward  Smuggling."  Pages  69-84  in  Donald 
Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recovery. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Pearce,  Richard.  "Ghana."  Pages  14-47  in  Alex  Duncan  and 
John  Howell  (eds.),  Structural  Adjustment  and  the  African 
Farmer.  London:  Overseas  Development  Institute,  1992. 

Picard,  Louis  A.,  and  Michele  Garrity  (eds.).  Policy  Reform  for 
Sustainable  Development  in  Africa:  The  Institutional  Imperative. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1994. 

Price,  Robert  M.  "Neo-colonialism  and  Ghana's  Economic 
Decline:  A  Critical  Assessment,"  Canadian  Journal  of  African 
Studies  [Ottawa],  18,  No.  1,  1984,  163-94. 

Ray,  Donald.  Ghana:  Politics,  Economics  and  Society.  Boulder,  Col- 
orado: Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Reynolds,  Edward.  Trade  and  Economic  Change  on  the  Gold  Coast, 
1807-1874.  London:  Longman,  1974. 

Rimmer,  Douglas.  Staying  Poor:  Ghana's  Political  Economy,  1950- 

1990.  New  York:  Pergamon,  1992. 


333 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Rodney,  Walter.  How  Europe  Underdeveloped  Africa.  Washington: 
Howard  University  Press,  1982. 

Roe,  Alan,  and  Hartmut  Schneider,  with  Graham  Pyatt.  Adjust- 
ment and  Equity  in  Ghana.  (Adjustment  and  Equity  in  Devel- 
oping Countries  series.)  Paris:  Organisation  for  Economic 
Co-operation  and  Development,  1992. 

Rothchild,  Donald.  "Ghana  and  Structural  Adjustment:  An 
Overview."  Pages  3-17  in  Donald  Rothchild  (ed.),  Ghana: 
The  Political  Economy  of  Recovery.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne 
Rienner,  1991. 

Rothchild,  Donald  (ed.).  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recov- 
ery. Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Sarris,  Alexander,  and  Hadi  Shams.  Ghana  Under  Structural 
Adjustment:  The  Impact  on  Agriculture  and  the  Rural  Poor.  New 
York:  New  York  University  Press  for  the  International  Fund 
for  Agricultural  Development,  1991. 

World  Bank.  Ghana  2000  and  Beyond:  Setting  the  Stage  for  Acceler- 
ated Growth  and  Poverty  Reduction.  Washington:  1992. 

World  Bank.  Ghana:  Financial  Sector  Review:  Bringing  Savers  and 
Investors  Together.  Washington:  1994. 

Yankson,  P.W.K.  "The  Growth  and  Development  of  Petty  Com- 
modity Enterprises  in  the  Urban  Economy:  The  Cases  of 
Tema  and  Tamale,  Ghana,"  African  Urban  Quarterly 
[Nairobi],  6,  Nos.  3-4,  1991,  217-27. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Economic  Digest  [Lon- 
don]; Africa  Research  Bulletin  (Economic  Series)  [Oxford];  Afri- 
can Business  [London];  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country 
Report:  Ghana  (1990-94)  and  Country  Profile:  Ghana  (1992-93, 
1993-94,  1994-95)  [London];  and  Ghana,  Statistical  Service, 
Quarterly  Digest  of  Statistics,  Ghana  in  Figures,  and  Statistical  News- 
letter [Accra].) 

Chapter  4 

Abdulai,  David.  "Rawlings  'Wins'  Ghana's  Presidential  Elec- 
tions: Establishing  a  New  Constitutional  Order,"  Africa  Today, 
39,  No.  4,1992,  66-71. 


334 


Bibliography 


Adjetey,  Peter  Ala.  "Ghana  Bar  Association's  Presidential 
Address,  1987,"  Ghana  Bar  Bulletin  [Accra],  1,  No.  l,June 
1988,  41-51. 

Afari-Gyan,  Kwadwo.  Public  Tribunals  and  Justice  in  Ghana. 

Accra:  Asempa,  1988. 
Ahiakpor,  James  C.  W.  "Rawlings,  Economic  Policy  Reform, 

and  the  Poor:  Consistency  or  Betrayal?"  The  Journal  oj  Modern 

African  Studies  [Cambridge],  29,  No.  4,  December  1991,  583- 

600. 

Apter,  David  E.  Ghana  in  Transition.  (2d  rev.  ed.)  Princeton: 
Princeton  University  Press,  1972. 

Arhin,  Kwame  (ed.) .  The  Life  and  Work  of  Kwame  Nkrumah.  Tren- 
ton, New  Jersey:  Africa  World  Press,  1993. 

Aryee,  Joseph  R.A.  "The  Provisional  National  Defence  Coun- 
cil's 'Blue  Book'  on  District  Political  Authority  and  the 
Future  of  Local  Government  in  Ghana,"  The  Journal  of  Man- 
agement Studies,  Third  Series  [Legon],  4,  January-December 
1988,  25-39. 

Asamoah,  Obed.  "Nkrumah's  Foreign  Policy,  1951-1966." 
Pages  231-47  in  Kwame  Arhin  (ed.),  The  Life  and  Work  of 
Kwame  Nkrumah.  Trenton,  New  Jersey:  Africa  World  Press, 
1993. 

Asante,  S.K.B.,  and  David  Chanaiwa.  "Pan-Africanism  and 
Regional  Integration."  Pages  724-43  in  Ali  A.  Mazrui  and  C. 
Wondji  (eds.),  Unesco  General  History  of  Africa,  VIII:  Africa  since 
1935.  London:  Heinemann,  1993. 

Asmah,  Kobena  Annan.  Ghana' s  Revolution:  The  PNDC's  Politics 
of  Pragmatic  Ideology.  (Contemporary  National  Affairs,  Series 
No.  2.)  Accra:  Kakabaah,  1986. 

Atta,  William  Ofori.  Ghana:  A  Nation  in  Crisis.  The  J.B.  Danquah 
Memorial  Lectures.  (Eighteenth  Series,  February  1985.)  Accra: 
Ghana  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences,  1988. 

Austin,  Dennis.  Politics  in  Ghana,  1946-1960.  (Issued  under  aus- 
pices of  the  Royal  Institute  of  International  Affairs.)  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1970. 

Awoonor,  Kofi  Nyidevu.  Ghana:  A  Political  History  from  Pre-Euro- 
pean  to  Modern  Times.  Accra:  Sedco  and  Woeli,  1990. 

Barber,  Benjamin,  and  Patrick  Watson.  The  Struggle  For  Democ- 
racy. Boston:  Little,  Brown,  1988. 


335 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Boateng,  Oti  E.,  et  al.  "A  Poverty  Profile  of  Ghana,  1987-88," 
Journal  of  African  Economies  [Oxford],  7,  No.  1,  March  1992, 
25-58. 

Brittain,  Victoria.  "Africa:  A  Political  Audit,"  Race  and  Class 
[London],  34,  No.  1, July-September  1992,  41-49. 

Brydon,  Lynne.  "Ghanaian  Responses  to  the  Nigerian  Expul- 
sions of  1983,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford],  84,  No.  337,  October 

1985,  561-85. 

Callaghy,  Thomas  M.,  and  Ernest  J.  Wilson  III.  "Africa:  Policy, 
Reality,  or  Ritual?"  Pages  179-230  in  Raymond  Vernon  (ed.), 
The  Promise  of  Privatization:  A  Challenge  For  American  Foreign 
Policy.  New  York:  Council  on  Foreign  Relations,  1988. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  "Ghana."  Pages  94-121  in  Timothy  M.  Shaw 
and  Olajide  Aluko,  (eds.),  The  Political  Economy  of  African  For- 
eign Policy:  Comparative  Analysis.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press, 
1984. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  "Planning  Democracy  in  Africa:  A  Compara- 
tive Perspective  on  Nigeria  and  Ghana,"  Policy  Sciences  [Dor- 
drecht, The  Netherlands],  22,  1989,  325-57. 

Chazan,  Naomi.  "The  Republic  of  Ghana."  Pages  408-12  in 
George  E.  Delury  (ed.),  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems 
and  Parties,  1.  (2d  ed.)  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1989. 

Davidson,  Basil.  The  Black  Man's  Burden:  Africa  and  The  Curse  of 
the  Nation-State.  New  York:  Times  Books,  1992. 

Dei-Anang,  Michael.  The  Administration  of  Ghana' s  Foreign  Rela- 
tions, 1957-1965:  A  Personal  Memoir.  London:  Athlone  Press, 
1975. 

Delury,  George  E.  (ed.).  World  Encyclopedia  of  Political  Systems 

and  Parties,  1.  (2d  ed.)  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1989. 
Diaz-Briquets,  Sergio  (ed.).  Cuban  Internationalism  in  Sub- 

Saharan  Africa.  Pittsburgh:  Duquesne  University  Press,  1989. 
Djoleto,  Amu.  Hurricane  of  Dust.  Harlow,  United  Kingdom: 

Longman,  1991. 
Du  Sautoy,  Peter.  Choice:  Lessons  From  The  Third  World.  (IEA 

Occasional  Paper  No.  22.)  London:  Institute  of  Economic 

Affairs,  1968. 

Freire,  Paulo.  Pedagogy  of  the  Oppressed.  New  York:  Herder  and 
Herder,  1970. 

Ghana.  Committee  For  the  Defence  of  the  Revolution:  Guidelines, 

1986.  Accra:  Nsamankow  Press,  1986. 


336 


Bibliography 


Ghana.  The  Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Ghana.  Accra:  Ghana 
Publishing,  1992. 

Ghana.  The  Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  1979.  Accra: 
Ghana  Publishing,  1988. 

Ghana.  Evolving  A  True  Democracy.  (Report  Presented  to  the 
PNDC,  Issued  by  The  National  Commission  For  Democracy, 
Accra,  March  25,  1991.)  Tema:  Tema  Press,  1991. 

Ghana.  NCD's  Role  in  The  Transformation  of  Ghana.  (NCD  Educa- 
tional Series  No.  2,  National  Commission  For  Democracy.)  Accra: 
Information  Services  Department,  1989. 

Ghana.  Outlines  of  the  Decentralization  Plan  of  the  Provisional 
National  Defence  Council.  Accra:  Information  Services  Depart- 
ment, 1988. 

Ghana.  Picking  Up  the  Pace  of  Progress.  Selected  Speeches  of  Fit.  Lt. 

J.J.  Rawlings,  Chairman  of  the  PNDC,  January  1 -December  31, 

[1987],  6.  Accra:  Information  Services  Department,  1987. 
Ghana.  Report  of  the  Committee  of  Experts  ( Constitution)  on  Proposals 

for  a  Draft  Constitution  of  Ghana,  Presented  to  the  PNDC,  July  31, 

1991.  Tema:  Tema  Press,  1991. 
Ghana.  Towards  A  Greater  Tomorrow.  Selected  Speeches  of  Fit.  Lt. 

Jerry  John  Rawlings,  Chairman  of  the  PNDC,  1st  January-31st 

December,  1988,  7.  Accra:  Information  Services  Department, 

1989. 

Ghana.  Unity  Is  Strength:  Selected  Speeches  of  Fit.  Lt.  Jerry  John  Rawl- 
ings, Chairman  of  the  PNDC,  1st  January-3 1st  December,  1989,  8. 
Accra:  Information  Services  Department,  1990. 

Gyimah-Boadi,  E.  "Associational  Life,  Civil  Society,  and  Democ- 
ratization in  Ghana."  Pages  125-48  in  John  W.  Harbeson, 
Donald  Rothchild,  and  Naomi  Chazan  (eds.),  Civil  Society 
and  the  State  in  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner, 
1994. 

Gyimah-Boadi,  E.  "Notes  on  Ghana's  Current  Transition  to 
Constitutional  Rule,"  Africa  Today,  38,  No.  4,  1992,  5-17. 

Gyimah-Boadi,  E.  (ed.).  Ghana  Under  PNDC  Rule,  1982-1989. 
Dakar:  Codesria,  1993. 

Hansen,  Emmanuel.  Ghana  Under  Rawlings.  Oxford:  Malt- 
house,  1991. 

Hansen,  Emmanuel,  and  Kwame  A.  Ninsin  (eds.).  The  State, 
Development,  and  Politics  in  Ghana.  London:  Codesria,  1989. 


337 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Harbeson,  John  W.,  Donald  Rothchild,  and  Naomi  Chazan 
(eds.).  Civil  Society  and  the  State  in  Africa.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Lynne  Rienner,  1994. 

Haynes,  Jeff.  "Human  Rights  and  Democracy  in  Ghana:  The 
Record  of  the  Rawlings'  Regime,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford] 
90,  No.  360,  July  1991,  407-25. 

Herbst,  Jeffrey.  The  Politics  of  Reform  in  Ghana,  1982-1991.  Ber- 
keley: University  of  California  Press,  1993. 

Jeffries,  Richard.  "Urban  Popular  Attitudes  Towards  The  Eco- 
nomic Recovery  Programme  and  the  PNDC  Government  in 
Ghana,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford],  91,  No.  363,  207-26. 

Jeffries,  Richard,  and  Clare  Thomas.  "The  Ghanaian  Elections 
of  1992,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford],  92,  No.  368,  July  1993, 
331-66. 

Kodjo,  Edem,  and  David  Chanaiwa.  "Pan-Africanism  and  Liber- 
ation." Pages  744-66  in  Ali  A.  Mazrui  and  C.  Wondji  (eds.), 
Unesco  General  History  of  Africa,  VIII:  Africa  since  1935.  Lon- 
don: Heinemann,  1993. 

Krafona,  Kwesi  (ed.).  Organization  of  African  Unity:  25  Years  On: 
Essays  in  Honour  of  Kwame  Nkrumah.  London:  Afroworld, 
1988. 

Kraus,  Jon.  "Building  Democracy  in  Africa,"  Current  History,  90, 
No.  556,  May  1991,209-12. 

Kraus,  Jon.  "Ghana's  Shift  from  Radical  Populism,"  Current  His- 
tory, 86,  No.  520,  May  1987,  205-08,  227-28. 

Limann,  Hilla.  Limann  Speaks:  "The  Way  Ahead. "  Address  by  His 
Excellency  President  Hilla  Limann  at  the  Annual  Congress  of  the 
People's  National  Party  (29th  May  to  1st  June  1980)  at  the  Prem- 
peh  Assembly  Hall,  Kumasi.  Accra:  People's  National  Party, 
1980. 

Lowy,  Michael  J.  "A  Good  Name  Is  Worth  More  than  Money: 
Strategies  of  Court  Use  in  Urban  Ghana."  Pages  181-208  in 
Laura  Nader  and  Harry  F.  Todd,  Jr.,  (eds.),  The  Disputing  Pro- 
cess: Law  in  Ten  Societies.  New  York,  Columbia  University 
Press,  1978. 

Loxley,  John.  "Structural  Adjustment  Programmes  in  Africa: 
Ghana  and  Zambia,"  Review  of  African  Political  Economy  [Shef- 
field, United  Kingdom],  No.  47,  Spring  1990,  8-27. 


338 


Bibliography 


McColm,  Bruce  R.,  et  al.  "Ghana."  Pages  216-18  in  Freedom  in 
the  World:  Political  Rights  and  Civil  Liberties,  1991-1992.  New 
York:  Freedom  House,  1992. 

Mazrui,  Ali  A.,  and  C.  Wondji  (eds.).  Unesco  General  History  of 
Africa,  VIII:  Africa  since  1935.  London:  Heinemann,  1993. 

Mills,  Pierre  Landell.  "Governance,  Cultural  Change  and 
Empowerment,"  The  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cam- 
bridge], 30,  No.  4,  December  1992,  543-67. 

Mireku,  Ebenezer.  Which  Way  Ghana1?  Accra:  Asuo  Peabo,  1991. 

Nader,  Laura,  and  Harry  F.  Todd,  Jr.,  (eds.).  The  Disputing  Pro- 
cess: Law  in  Ten  Societies.  New  York:  Columbia  University 
Press,  1978. 

Ninsin,  Kwame  A.  Political  Parties  and  Democracy  in  Ghana's 
Fourth  Republic:  Proceedings  of  a  Seminar  Organized  by  the  Depart- 
ment of  Political  Science,  University  of  Ghana,  Legon,  on  2nd  and 
3rd  July  1992.  Accra:  Woeli,  1993. 

Ninsin,  Kwame  A.  The  Search  For  Democracy  in  Ghana:  A  Case 
Study  of  Political  Instability  in  Africa.  Accra:  Asempa,  1987. 

Ninsin,  Kwame  A.,  and  Francis  K.  Drah  (eds.).  Ghana's  Transi- 
tion to  Constitutional  Rule:  Proceedings  of  a  Seminar  Organized  by 
the  Department  of  Political  Science,  University  of  Ghana,  Legon. 
Accra:  Ghana  Universities  Press,  1991. 

Nkrumah,  Kwame.  Africa  Must  Unite.  London:  Heinemann, 
1963. 

Nkrumah,  Kwame.  I  Speak  of  Freedom:  A  Statement  of  African  Ideol- 
ogy. London:  Heinemann,  1961. 

Okeke,  Barbara  E.  4  June:  A  Revolution  Betrayed.  Enugu,  Nigeria: 
Ikenga,  1982. 

Overseas  Development  Administration.  Britain  and  Ghana:  Part- 
ners in  Development.  London:  1989. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Custom  and  Coups:  A  Juridical  Interpreta- 
tion of  Civil  Order  and  Disorder  in  Ghana,"  The  Journal  of 
Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge],  24,  No.  1,  March  1986, 
69-99. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Democracy  and  Africa — A  View  from  the  Vil- 
lage," The  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies  [Cambridge] ,  30, 
No.  3,  September  1992,  369-96. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Evolution  in  the  Revolution:  Nkrumah, 
Ghana,  and  African  Socialism,"  Africa  Today,  26,  No.  2,  1979, 
71-76. 


339 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Kingship  in  Contemporary  Asante  Society." 
Pages  161-72  in  Enid  Schildkrout  (ed.),  The  Golden  Stool- 
Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthropological 
Papers  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65, 
Part  1.)  New  York:  American  Museum  of  National  History, 
1987. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Peace  in  the  Coup.  Chiefs,  Courts,  and  Civil 
Order."  Pages  150-70  in  Mario  D.  Zamora,  Bjorn  B.  Erring, 
and  Anthony  L.  Laruffa  (eds.),  The  Anthropology  of  War  and 
Peace.  Nueva  Vizcaya,  Philippines:  St.  Mary's  College  of  Bay- 
ombong,  1990. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Politics  Without  Parties:  Reflections  on  the 
Union  Government  Proposals  in  Ghana,"  African  Studies 
Review,  22,  No.  1,  April  1979,  89-108. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Rebellion,  Revolution,  and  Tradition:  Re- 
Interpreting  Coups  in  Ghana,"  Comparative  Studies  in  Society 
and  History  [London  and  New  York],  31,  No.  2,  April  1989, 
372-97. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  Uses  and  Abuses  of  Political  Power:  A  Case  Study  of 
Continuity  and  Change  in  the  Politics  of  Ghana.  Chicago:  Uni- 
versity of  Chicago  Press,  1970. 

Owusu-Ansah,  David.  "The  Provisional  National  Defence  Coun- 
cil of  Ghana:  A  Move  Toward  Consolidation,"  International 
Third  World  Studies  fournal  and  Review,  1,  No.  1,  1989,  213-18. 

Pare,  Osei.  Towards  a  Better  Ghana.  Accra:  Pare,  1988. 

Ramphal,  Shridath  S.  "The  Legacy  of  Kwame  Nkrumah."  Pages 
4-14  in  Kwesi  Krafona  (ed.),  Organization  of  African  Unity:  25 
Years  On:  Essays  in  Honour  of  Kwame  Nkrumah.  London:  Afro- 
world,  1988. 

Ray,  Donald  I.  Ghana:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1986. 

Rothchild,  Donald  (ed.).  Ghana:  The  Political  Economy  of  Recov- 
ery. Boulder,  Colorado:  Lynne  Rienner,  1991. 

Schildkrout,  Enid  (ed.).  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante 
Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  Ameri- 
can Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York: 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Shaw,  Timothy  M.,  and  Olajide  Aluko  (eds.).  The  Political  Econ- 
omy of  African  Foreign  Policy:  Comparative  Analysis.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1984. 


340 


Bibliography 


Shillington,  Kevin.  Ghana  and  the  Rawlings  Factor.  New  York:  St. 
Martin's  Press,  1992. 

Tangri,  Roger.  "The  Politics  of  State  Divestiture  in  Ghana,"  Afri- 
can Affairs  [Oxford],  90,  No.  361,  523-36. 

Thompson,  Willard  S.  Ghana 's  Foreign  Policy,  1957-1966:  Diplo- 
macy, Ideology,  and  the  New  State.  Princeton:  Princeton  Univer- 
sity Press,  1969. 

Twumasi,  P.K.  Criminal  Law  in  Ghana.  Tema:  Ghana  Publishing, 
1985. 

Vernon,  Raymond  (ed.).  The  Promise  of  Privatization:  A  Challenge 
for  American  Foreign  Policy.  New  York:  Council  on  Foreign 
Relations,  1988. 

Yankah,  Kojo.  The  Trial  of  J.J.  Rawlings.  Accra:  Ghana  Publish- 
ing, 1987. 

Yankah,  Kwesi.  Woes  of  A  Kwatriot.  Reflections  on  the  Ghanaian  Sit- 
uation. Accra:  Woeli,  1990. 

Yeebo,  Zaya.  Ghana:  The  Struggle  For  Popular  Power.  Rawlings:  Sav- 
iour or  Demagogue? Boston:  New  Beacon  Books,  1992. 

Zamora,  Mario  D.,  Bjorn  B.  Erring,  and  Anthony  L.  Laruffa 
(eds.).  The  Anthropology  of  War  and  Peace.  Nueva  Vizcaya,  Phil- 
ippines: St.  Mary's  College  of  Bayombong,  1990. 

Ziorklui,  Emmanuel  Doe.  Ghana:  Nkrumah  to  Rawlings.  (Em-zed 
Historical  Series,  Vol.  1.)  Accra:  Em-zed  Books  Centre,  1988. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Contemporary  Record 
[New  York  and  London] ,  The  Christian  Chronicle  [Accra] ,  Chris- 
tian Messenger  [Accra] ,  The  Free  Press  [Accra] ,  Ghanaian  Times 
[Accra] ,  The  Ghanaian  Voice  [Accra] ,  Home  Front  Ghanaian  News 
and  Views  [Accra] ,  Local  Government  Information  Digest  [Accra] , 
The  Mirror  [Accra],  New  African  [London],  People's  Daily  Graphic 
[Accra] ,  The  Pioneer  [Accra] ,  Talking  Drums  [London] ,  The  Ver- 
dict: Journal  of  the  Revolutionary  Organs  [Accra] ,  Weekly  Spectator 
[Accra],  and  West  Africa  [London].) 

Chapter  5 

Adekson,  J.  Bayo.  "Army  in  a  Multi-Ethnic  Society:  The  Case  of 
Nkrumah's  Ghana,  1957-1966,"  Armed  Forces  and  Society,  2, 
No.  2,  Winter  1976,  251-72. 


341 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Africa  Watch.  Abuse  of  Legal  System  Under  PNDC.  New  York: 

Africa  Watch,  1992. 
Africa  Watch.  Government  Denies  Existence  of  Political  Prisoners: 

Minister  Says  Detainees  "Safer"  in  Custody.  New  York:  Africa 

Watch,  1991. 

Afrifa,  A. A.  The  Ghana  Coup,  24th  February  1966.  London:  Frank 
Cass,  1966. 

Agyeman-Duah,  Baffour.  "Global  Transformation  and  Demo- 
cratic Reforms  in  Ghana."  Pages  193-208  in  Eileen  McCar- 
thy:Arnolds,  David  R.  Penna,  and  Debra  Joy  Cruz  Sobrepena 
(eds.),  Africa,  Human  Rights,  and  the  Global  System:  The  Political 
Economy  of  Human  Rights  in  a  Changing  World.  Westport,  Con- 
necticut: Greenwood  Press,  1994. 

Akyempim,  Owusu.  The  Native  Court  and  Its  Functions.  Kumasi: 
Adorn  Press,  1955. 

Alexander,  H.T.  African  Tightrope:  My  Two  Years  as  Nkrumah's 
Chief  of  Staff.  New  York:  Praeger,  1966. 

Allot,  Antony  Nicholas.  Essays  in  African  Laws,  with  Special  Refer- 
ence to  the  Law  of  Ghana.  London:  Butterworths,  1960. 

Amdoh,  A.S.Y.  "The  Asante  National  Liberation  Movement  of 
the  1950s."  Pages  173-83  in  Enid  Schildkrout  (ed.),  The 
Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthro- 
pological Papers  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  His- 
tory, Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York:  American  Museum  of 
Natural  History,  1987. 

Amnesty  International.  Ghana:  Political  Imprisonment  and  the 
Death  Penalty.  London:  1991. 

Ankrah,  Joseph  A.  "The  Future  of  the  Military  in  Ghana,"  Africa 
Forum  [London],  2,  No.  1,  Summer  1966,  5-16. 

Arakan  Assignment:  The  Story  of  the  82nd  West  African  Division. 
New  Delhi:  Roxy  Press,  1946. 

Armitage,  Cecil  Hamilton,  and  A.F.  Montanaro.  The  Ashanti 
Campaign  of  1900.  London:  Sands,  1901. 

Arnold,  Guy.  "Ghana:  Will  It  Be  Rule  by  Army  and  Chiefs?," 
New  African  Development  [London],  No.  128,  April  1978,  28- 
29. 

Austin,  Dennis.  "The  Ghana  Armed  Forces  and  Ghanaian  Soci- 
ety," Third  World  Quarterly  [London],  7,  No.  1,  January  1985, 
90-101. 


342 


Bibliography 


Austin,  Dennis,  and  Robin  Luckham  (eds.).  Politicians  and  Sol- 
diers in  Ghana,  1966-1972.  London:  Frank  Cass,  1976. 

Baden  Powell,  Robert  S.S.  The  Downfall  of  Prempeh:  A  Diary  of 
Life  with  the  Native  Levy  in  Ashanti,  1895-96.  London:  Meth- 
uen,  1896. 

Barker,  Peter.  Operation  Cold  Chop:  The  Coup  That  Toppled  Nkru- 
mah.  (2d  ed.)  Accra:  Ghana  Publishing,  1979. 

Baynham,  Simon.  "Civil-Military  Relations  in  Ghana's  Second 
Republic,"  Journal  of  Contemporary  African  Studies  [Pretoria], 
4,  Nos.  1-2,  October  1984-April  1985,  71-88. 

Baynham,  Simon.  "Civilian  Rule  and  the  Coup  d'Etat:  The  Case 
of  Busia's  Ghana,"  Journal  of  the  Royal  United  Services  Institute 
for  Defence  Studies  [London],  123,  No.  3,  September  1978,  27- 
33. 

Baynham,  Simon.  The  Military  and  Politics  in  Nkrumah's  Ghana. 
Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

Baynham,  Simon.  "Soldier  and  State  in  Ghana,"  Armed  Forces 
and  Society,  5,  No.  1,  Fall  1978, 155-68. 

Bebler,  Anton.  Military  Rule  in  Africa:  Dahomey,  Ghana,  Sierra 
Leone,  and  Mali.  New  York:  Praeger,  1973. 

Bennett,  Valerie  Plave.  "The  Motivation  for  Military  Interven- 
tion: The  Case  of  Ghana,"  The  Western  Political  Quarterly,  26, 
No.  4,  December  1973,  659-74. 

Biss,  Harold  C.J.  The  Relief  of  Kumasi.  London:  Methuen's  Colo- 
nial Library,  1901. 

Boahen,  A.  Adu.  "A  Nation  in  Exile:  The  Asante  on  the  Sey- 
chelles Islands,  1900-24."  Pages  146-60  in  Enid  Schildkrout 
(ed.),  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and  Periph- 
ery. (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  American  Museum  of 
Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York:  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Boyle,  Frederick.  Through  Fanteeland  to  Coomassie:  A  Diary  of  the 
Ashantee Expedition.  London:  Chapman  and  Hall,  1874. 

Brackenbury,  Henry.  The  Ashanti  War:  A  Narrative.  (2  vols.) 
Edinburgh  and  London:  Blackwood,  1874.  Reprint.  Lon- 
don: Frank  Cass,  1968. 

Clayton,  Anthony,  and  David  Killingray.  Khaki  and  Blue:  Military 
and  Police  in  British  Colonial  Africa.  Athens:  Ohio  University 
Center  for  International  Studies,  1989. 


343 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Clifford,  Hugh  Charles.  The  Gold  Coast  Regiment  in  the  East  Afri- 
can Campaign.  London:  John  Murray,  1920. 

Crowder,  Michael  (ed.).  West  African  Resistance:  The  Military 
Response  to  Colonial  Occupation.  New  York:  Africana,  1972. 

Dare,  L.O.  "The  Patterns  of  Military  Entrenchment  in  Ghana 
and  Nigeria,"  Africa  Quarterly  [New  Delhi],  16,  No.  3,  1977, 
28-41. 

Ekoko,  Edho.  "British  War  Plans  Against  Germany  in  West 
Africa,  1903-14,"  The  Journal  of  Strategic  Studies  [London],  7, 
No.  4,  December  1984,  441-56. 

Farwell,  Byron.  Queen  Victoria's  Little  Wars.  New  York:  Harper 
and  Row,  1972. 

Feit,  Edward.  "Military  Coups  and  Political  Development: 
Some  Lessons  from  Ghana  and  Nigeria,"  World  Politics,  20, 
No.  2,  April  1967, 179-93. 

Feit,  Edward.  "The  Rule  of  the  Iron  Surgeons:  Military  Govern- 
ment in  Spain  and  Ghana,"  Comparative  Politics,  1,  No.  4,  July 
1969,  485-97. 

Fynn,  John  K.  "Ghana-Asante  (Ashanti)."  Pages  19-52  in 
Michael  Crowder  (ed.),  West  African  Resistance:  The  Military 
Response  to  Colonial  Occupation.  New  York:  Africana,  1972. 

Gillespie,  WH.  The  Gold  Coast  Police,  1844-1938.  Accra:  Govern- 
ment Printer,  1938. 

Gorges,  Edmund.  The  Great  War  in  West  Africa.  London:  Hutch- 
inson, 1930. 

Great  Britain.  Correspondence  Relating  to  the  Ashanti  War,  1900. 

London:  HMSO,  1901. 
Great  Britain.  Further  Papers  Relating  to  the  Ashantee  Invasion. 

London:  HMSO,  1874. 
Great  Britain.  Papers  Relating  to  the  Ashantee  Invasion  (Gold 

Coast).  London:  HMSO,  1873(?). 
Gutteridge,  W.F.  "Military  Elites  in  Nigeria  and  Ghana,"  Africa 

Forum  [London],  2,  No.  1,  Summer  1966,  31-41. 
Haynes,  Jeff.  "Human  Rights  and  Democracy  in  Ghana:  The 

Record  of  the  Rawlings'  Regime,"  African  Affairs  [Oxford] , 

90,  No.  360,  July  1991,  407-25. 
Haywood,  A.,  and  F.A.S.  Clarke.  The  History  of  the  Royal  West  Afri- 
can Frontier  Force.  Aldershot:  Gale  and  Polden,  1964. 
Hettne,  Bjorn.  "The  Ghanaian  Experiments  with  Military 

Rule."  Pages  145-70  in  Peter  Wallensteen,  Johan  Galtung, 


344 


Bibliography 


and  Carlos  Portales  (eds.),  Global  Militarization.  Boulder,  Col- 
orado: Westview  Press,  1985. 
Hodgson,  Mary  Alice.  The  Siege  of  Kumassi.  London:  C.  Arthur 
Pearson,  1901. 

Holbrook,  Wendell  P.  "British  Propaganda  and  the  Mobiliza- 
tion of  the  Gold  Coast  War  Effort,  1939-1945 ,"  Journal  of  Afri- 
can History  [Cambridge] ,  26,  No.  4,  1985,  347-61 . 

Holbrook,  Wendell  P.  "Oral  History  and  the  Nascent  Historiog- 
raphy for  West  Africa  and  World  War  II:  A  Focus  on  Ghana," 
International  Journal  of  Oral  History,  3,  No.  3,  November  1982, 
149-66. 

Hunt,  G.D.  "Recollections  of  the  Canadian  Armed  Forces 
Training  Team  in  Ghana,  1961-1968,"  Canadian  Defence 
Quarterly  [Ottawa],  18,  No.  5, 1989,  43-50. 

Hutchful,  Eboe.  "The  Development  of  the  Army  Officer  Corps 
in  Ghana,  1956-1 966,"  Journal  of  African  Studies,  12,  No.  3, 
Fall  1985,  163-73. 

Hutchful,  Eboe.  "Organizational  Instability  in  African  Military 
Forces:  The  Case  of  the  Ghanaian  Army,"  International  Social 
Science  Journal  [Paris],  31,  No.  4,  1979,  606-18. 

Hutchful,  Eboe.  "A  Tale  of  Two  Regimes:  Imperialism,  the  Mili- 
tary, and  Class  in  Ghana,"  Review  of  African  Political  Economy 
[Sheffield,  United  Kingdom],  No.  14,  January-April  1979, 
36-55. 

Israel,  Adrienne  M.  "Ex-Servicemen  at  the  Crossroads:  Protest 
and  Politics  in  Post-War  Ghana,"  Journal  of  Modern  African 
Studies  [Cambridge],  30,  No.  2, June  1992,  359-68. 

Kea,  R.A.  "Firearms  and  Warfare  on  the  Gold  and  Slave  Coasts 
from  the  Sixteenth  to  the  Nineteenth  Centuries,"  Journal  of 
African  History  [Cambridge],  12,  No.  2,  1971,  185-213. 

Killingray,  David.  "Military  and  Labour  Policies  in  Gold  Coast 
during  the  First  World  War."  Pages  152-70  in  Melvin  E.  Page 
(ed.),  Africa  and  the  First  World  War.  London:  Macmillan, 
1987. 

Killingray,  David.  "Military  and  Labour  Recruitment  in  the 
Gold  Coast  during  the  Second  World  War ,"  Journal  of  African 
History  [Cambridge],  23,  No.  1,  1982,  83-95. 

Killingray,  David.  "The  Mutiny  of  the  West  African  Regiment  in 
the  Gold  Coast,  1901,"  International  Journal  of  African  Histori- 
cal Studies,  16,  No.  3,  1983,  441-54. 


345 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

Killingray,  David.  "Soldiers,  Ex-Servicemen  and  Politics  in  the 
Gold  Coast,  1939-1950,"  The  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 
[Cambridge],  21,  No.  3,  September  1983,  523-34. 

Kraus,  Jon.  "Arms  and  Politics  in  Ghana."  Pages  154—221  in 
Claude  E.  Welch,  Jr.  (ed.),  Soldier  and  State  in  Africa:  A  Com- 
parative Analysis  of  Military  Intervention  and  Political  Change. 
Evanston,  Illinois:  Northwestern  University  Press,  1970. 

Lefever,  Ernest  W.  Spear  and  Scepter:  Army,  Police,  and  Politics  in 
Tropical  Africa.  Washington:  The  Brookings  Institution,  1970. 

Lloyd,  Alan.  The  Drums  of  Kumasi:  The  Story  of  the  Ashanti  Wars. 
London:  Longman,  1964. 

Lucas,  Charles  Prestwood.  The  Gold  Coast  and  the  War.  London: 
Milford,  1920. 

McCarthy-Arnolds,  Eileen,  David  R.  Penna,  and  Debra  Joy  Cruz 
Sobrepena  (eds.).  Africa,  Human  Eights,  and  the  Global  System: 
The  Political  Economy  of  Human  Rights  in  a  Changing  World. 
Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1994. 

Mclnnes,  I.  Ashanti,  1895-96.  London:  Picton,  1987. 

Maier,  D.J.E.  "Asante  War  Aims  in  the  1896  Invasion  of  Ewe." 
Pages  232-44  in  Enid  Schildkrout  (ed.),  The  Golden  Stool: 
Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthropological 
Papers  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65, 
Part  1.)  New  York:  American  Museum  of  Natural  History, 
1987. 

"Military  Training  Assistance  to  Ghana,"  External  Affairs 
[Ottawa] ,  14,  No.  4,  April  1962, 136-37. 

Milner,  Alan  (ed.).  African  Penal  Systems.  London:  Routledge 
andKegan  Paul,  1969. 

Moberly,  Frederick  James.  History  of  the  Great  War:  Military  Oper- 
ations, Togoland  and  the  Cameroons,  1914-1916.  London: 
HMSO,  1931. 

Myatt,  Frederick.  The  Golden  Stool:  An  Account  of  the  Ashanti  War 

of 1900.  London:  William  Kimber,  1966. 
Nkrumah,  Kwame.  Dark  Days  in  Ghana.  London:  Lawrence  and 

Wishart,  1968. 

Ocran,  Albert  Kwesi.  A  Myth  Is  Broken:  An  Account  of  the  Ghana 
Coup  d'Etat  of  24th  February  1966.  New  York:  Humanities 
Press,  1968. 


346 


Bibliography 


Ocran,  Albert  Kwesi.  Politics  of  the  Sword:  A  Personal  Memoir  on 
Military  Involvement  in  Ghana  and  of  Problems  of  Military  Gov- 
ernment. London:  Rex  Collings,  1977. 

Ofusu-Appiah,  L.H.  The  Life  of  Lt.  Gen.  E.K.  Kotoka.  Accra: 
Waterville  Publishing,  1972. 

Okeke,  Barbara  E.  4  June:  A  Revolution  Betrayed.  Enugu,  Nigeria: 
Ikenga,  1982. 

Owusu,  Maxwell.  "Rebellion,  Revolution,  and  Tradition:  Re- 
interpreting Coups  in  Ghana,"  Comparative  Studies  in  Society 
and  History  [London  and  New  York],  31,  No.  2,  April  1989, 
372-97. 

Page,  Melvin  E.  (ed.).  Africa  and  the  First  World  War.  London: 
Macmillan,  1987. 

Pieterse,  Jan.  "Rawlings  and  the  1979  Revolt  in  Ghana,"  Race 
and  Class  [London],  23,  No.  4,  Spring  1982,  9-18. 

Pinkney,  Robert.  Ghana  Under  Military  Rule,  1966-1969.  Lon- 
don: Methuen,  1972. 

Price,  Robert  M.  "Military  Officers  and  Political  Leadership: 
The  Ghanaian  Case,"  Comparative  Politics,  3,  No.  3,  April 
1971,361-79. 

Price,  Robert  M.  "A  Theoretical  Approach  to  Military  Rule  in 
New  States:  Reference  Group  Theory  and  the  Ghanaian 
Case,"  World  Politics,  23,  No.  3,  April  1971,  399-430. 

Reynolds,  Edward.  "Asante  Wars  of  the  19th  Century  and 
Direct  Access  to  the  Coast."  Pages  225-31  in  Enid  Schild- 
krout  (ed.),  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and 
Periphery.  (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  American  Museum 
of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York:  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Rothchild,  Donald.  "Military  Regime  Performance:  An 
Appraisal  of  the  Ghana  Experience,  1972-78,"  Comparative 
Politics,  12,  No.  4,  July  1980,  459-70. 

Schildkrout,  Enid  (ed.).  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante 
Center  and  Periphery.  (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  Ameri- 
can Museum  of  Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York: 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Schleh,  Eugene  P.A.  "The  Post-War  Careers  of  Ex-Servicemen 
in  Ghana  and  Uganda,"  Journal  of  Modern  African  Studies 
[Cambridge] ,  6,  No.  2,  August  1968,  203-20. 


347 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Seidman,  Robert  B.  "The  Ghana  Prison  System:  An  Historical 
Perspective."  Pages  431-72  in  Alan  Milner  (ed.),  African 
Penal  Systems.  London:  Routledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1969. 

Seidman,  Robert  B.,  and  J.D.  Abaka  Eyison.  "Ghana."  Pages  59- 
87  in  Alan  Milner  (ed.),  African  Penal  Systems.  London:  Rout- 
ledge  and  Kegan  Paul,  1969. 

Sillah,  Mohammed-Bassiru.  African  Coup  d'Etat:  A  Case  Study  of 
Jerry  Rawlings  in  Ghana.  Lawrenceville,  Virginia:  Brunswick, 
1984. 

Stanley,  Henry  Morton.  Coomassie  and  Magdala:  The  Story  of  Two 
British  Campaigns  in  Africa.  London:  Low,  Marston,  Low  and 
Searle,  1874. 

Stanley,  Henry  Morton.  Coomassie:  The  Story  of  the  Campaign  in 
Africa,  1873-4.  London:  Low,  Marston  and  Company,  1896. 

Tenkorang,  S.  "The  Importance  of  Firearms  in  the  Struggle 
between  Ashanti  and  the  Coastal  States,  1708-1807,"  Trans- 
actions of  the  Historical  Society  of  Ghana  [Legon],  9,  1968,  1-16. 

Terry,  E.  "Asante  Imperialism  and  Gyaman  Resistance:  Forms, 
Motivations,  Trends."  Pages  245-51  in  Enid  Schildkrout 
(ed.),  The  Golden  Stool:  Studies  of  the  Asante  Center  and  Periph- 
ery. (Anthropological  Papers  of  the  American  Museum  of 
Natural  History,  Vol.  65,  Part  1.)  New  York:  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History,  1987. 

Thomas,  Roger  G.  "Military  Recruitment  in  the  Gold  Coast 
during  the  First  World  War,"  Cahiers  d' Etudes  Africaines 
[Paris],  15,  No.  1, 1975,  57-83. 

Thomas,  Roger  G.  "The  1916  Bongo  'Riots'  and  Their  Back- 
ground: Aspects  of  Colonial  Administration  and  African 
Response  in  Eastern  Upper  Ghana,"  Journal  of  African  History 
[Cambridge] ,  24,  No.  1,  1983,  57-75. 

Ukpabi,  S.C.  "The  British  Colonial  Office  Approach  to  the 
Ashanti  War  of  1900,"  African  Studies  Review,  13,  No.  3, 
December  1970,  363-80. 

Wallensteen,  Peter,  Johan  Galtung,  and  Carlos  Portales  (eds.). 
Global  Militarization.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press, 
1985. 

Wasserman,  B.  "The  Ashanti  War  of  1900:  A  Study  in  Cultural 
Conflict,"  Africa  [Edinburgh],  31,  April  1961,  167-78. 


348 


Bibliography 


Welch,  Claude  E.,  Jr.  (ed.).  Soldier  and  State  in  Africa:  A  Compara- 
tive Analysis  of  Military  Intervention  and  Political  Change.  Evan- 
ston,  Illinois:  Northwestern  University  Press,  1970. 

Zeff,  Eleanor  Elwell.  "New  Directions  in  Understanding  Mili- 
tary and  Civilian  Regimes  in  Ghana,"  African  Studies  Review, 
24,  No.  1,  March  1981,  49-72. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  publications  were  also  used 
in  the  preparation  of  this  chapter:  Africa  Confidential  [London], 
Africa  Contemporary  Record  [New  York  and  London],  Africa 
Events  [London],  Africa  Research  Bulletin  (Political  Series) 
[Oxford],  Africa  South  of  the  Sahara  [London],  African  Defence 
Journal  [Paris],  The  Army  Quarterly  and  Defence  Journal  [Lon- 
don], Current  History,  Ghana  Armed  Forces  Magazine  [  Accra],  Jour- 
nal of  the  African  Society  [London],  The  Military  Balance 
[London],  New  African  [London],  Strategic  Survey  [London], 
West  Africa  [London],  and  World  Armaments  and  Disarmament 
[Stockholm].) 


"V: 


349 


Glossary 


asafo — Traditional  warrior  organization  of  the  Akan  and  other 
coastal  peoples  of  southern  Ghana,  originating  in  the  early 
seventeenth  century  or  earlier.  Traditionally,  the  asafo 
served  as  an  independent  outlet  for  popular  dissatisfac- 
tion, and  they  had  a  voice  in  the  enthronement  (enstool- 
ment)  and  dethronement  (destoolment)  of  chiefs.  Among 
other  tasks,  the  asafo  performed  police  and  militia  duties, 
collected  tribute,  and  built  roads.  People's  Defence  Com- 
mittees and  Committees  for  the  Defence  of  the  Revolution 
of  the  Provisional  National  Defence  Council  era  were 
inspired  in  part  by  the  asafo  tradition. 

Asante/Ashanti — Terms  used  interchangeably  to  refer  to  what 
are  probably  the  best-known  people  and  state  among  the 
Akan.  Asante  is  the  original  Akan  term.  Ashanti,  according 
to  popular  accounts,  is  a  corruption  that  originated  early 
in  the  colonial  period.  Although  Asante  is  now  preferred, 
Ashanti  remains  in  use  in  contemporary  Ghana,  for  exam- 
ple, Ashanti  Region. 

cedi  (pi.  cedis;  £  or  c) — Ghanaian  unit  of  currency,  composed 
of  100  pesewas.  Introduced  after  independence  by  Kwame 
Nkrumah,  it  has  undergone  several  devaluations,  includ- 
ing one  that  proved  politically  unpopular  in  December 
1971.  In  1982  the  value  of  the  cedi  was  US$1.00  =  2.75 
cedis.  In  October  1983,  the  Provisional  National  Defence 
Council  further  devalued  the  cedi,  which  produced  an 
exchange  rate  of  US$1.00  =  90  cedis  in  March  1986.  Begin- 
ning in  September  1986,  the  cedi  was  freed  to  float  against 
other  currencies,  which  yielded  an  exchange  rate  of 
US$1.00  =  326  cedis  by  1990  and  US$1.00  =  1,040  cedis  by 
late  1994. 

clan — A  group  whose  members  are  descended  in  the  male  line 
from  a  putative  common  male  ancestor  (patrician)  or  in 
the  female  line  from  a  putative  common  female  ancestor 
(matriclan).  Clans  may  be  divided  into  subclans  organized 
on  the  same  principle  or  into  lineages  (q.  v.)  believed  to  be 
linked  by  descent  from  a  common  ancestor  less  remote 
than  the  founding  ancestor  of  the  clan. 

fiscal  year  (FY) — An  annual  period  established  for  accounting 
purposes.  In  Ghana,  the  government's  fiscal  year  is  the 


351 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 

same  as  the  calendar  year. 

Global  2000 — Program  founded  and  chaired  by  Jimmy  Carter, 
former  president  of  the  United  States,  to  deliver  agricul- 
tural assistance  to  farmers  in  the  developing  world.  Pro- 
vides improved  seedlings,  financial  assistance,  and 
extension  services,  and  has  as  its  goal  the  attainment  of 
agricultural  self-sufficiency  in  participating  countries. 
Ghana  became  a  member  country  in  the  mid-1980s. 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  the  domestic  economy 
during  a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  add- 
ing the  value  contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in 
the  form  of  profits,  compensation  to  employees,  and 
depreciation  (consumption  of  capital).  The  income  aris- 
ing from  investments  and  possessions  owned  abroad  is  not 
included,  hence  the  use  of  the  word  domestic  to  distinguish 
GDP  from  gross  national  product  (q.v.). 

gross  national  product  (GNP) — Total  market  value  of  all  final 
goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  during  a  year. 
Obtained  by  adding  the  gross  domestic  product  {q.v.)  and 
the  income  received  from  abroad  by  residents  minus  pay- 
ments remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents. 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF) — Established  on  July  22, 
1944,  the  IMF  began  operating  along  with  the  World  Bank 
(q.v.)  on  December  27,  1945.  The  IMF  is  a  specialized 
agency  affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  takes 
responsibility  for  stabilizing  international  exchange  rates 
and  payments.  The  IMF's  main  business  is  the  provision  of 
loans  to  its  members  when  they  experience  balance-of-pay- 
ments  difficulties.  These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that 
require  substantial  internal  economic  adjustments  by  the 
recipients. 

lineage — A  group  whose  members  are  descended  through 
males  from  a  common  male  ancestor  (patrilineage)  or 
through  females  from  a  common  female  ancestor  (matri- 
lineage).  Such  descent  can  in  principle  be  traced.  Lin- 
eages vary  in  genealogical  depth  from  the  lineage  ancestor 
to  living  generations;  the  more  extensive  ones  often  are 
internally  segmented.  A  lineage  is  generally  a  branch  of  a 
clan  (q.v.). 

matriclan — A  group  of  men  and  women  who  are  descended  in 

the  female  line  from  a  putative  common  female  ancestor, 
matrilineage — A  group  of  male  and  female  descendants  of  a 


352 


Glossary 


female  ancestor,  each  of  whom  is  related  to  the  common 
ancestor  through  female  forebears. 

patrician — A  group  of  men  and  women  who  are  descended  in 
the  male  line  from  a  putative  common  male  ancestor. 

patrilineage — A  group  of  male  and  female  descendants  of  a 
male  ancestor,  each  of  whom  is  related  to  the  common 
ancestor  through  male  forebears. 

Shia  (also  Shiite,  from  Shiat  Ali,  the  Party  of  Ali) — A  member 
of  the  smaller  of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam.  In  the 
mid-seventh  century,  the  Shia  supported  the  hereditary 
claim  of  Ali,  the  Prophet  Muhammad's  cousin  and  son-in- 
law,  and  of  his  descendants  to  presumptive  right  to  the 
Islamic  caliphate  and  leadership  of  the  Muslim  commu- 
nity. On  this  issue,  they  divided  from  the  Sunnis,  the  larger 
of  the  two  great  divisions  of  Islam. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  four 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank 
for  Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD) ,  the  Interna- 
tional Development  Association  (IDA),  the  International 
Finance  Corporation  (IFC) ,  and  the  Multilateral  Invest- 
ment Guarantee  Agency  (MIGA).  The  IBRD,  established 
in  1945,  has  the  primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to 
developing  countries  for  productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a 
legally  separate  loan  fund  administered  by  the  staff  of  the 
IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  furnish  credits  to  the  poorest 
developing  countries  on  much  easier  terms  than  those  of 
conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC,  founded  in  1956,  sup- 
plements the  activities  of  the  IBRD  through  loans  and 
assistance  specifically  designed  to  encourage  the  growth  of 
productive  private  enterprises  in  the  less  developed  coun- 
tries. The  MIGA,  founded  in  1988,  insures  private  foreign 
investment  in  developing  countries  against  various  non- 
commercial risks.  The  president  and  certain  senior  offi- 
cers of  the  IBRD  hold  the  same  positions  in  the  IFC.  The 
four  institutions  are  owned  by  the  governments  of  the 
countries  that  subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate  in  the 
World  Bank  group,  member  states  must  first  belong  to  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — q.u). 


353 


Index 


Abacha,  Sani,  243 

Aborigines'  Rights  Protection  Society,  24 
Abu,  Katharine,  99 

Accelerated  Development  Plan  for  Edu- 
cation, 95, 118-20,  123 

Accra,  14,  224;  airport  at,  183;  as  capital, 
17;  rioting  in,  26;  water  for,  72 

Accra  Plains,  63-64;  agriculture  of,  63- 
64;  topography  of,  63 

Accra  Police  College,  293 

Accra  Turf  Club,  99 

Acheampong,  Ignatius  Kutu,  41-42,  147, 
154;  executed,  47,  51,  273;  forced  to 
resign,  45,  272 

Acheampong  government.  See  National 
Redemption  Council;  Supreme  Mili- 
tary Council 

Achimota  College,  22 

Achimota  School,  118 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS),  62,  114-15;  awareness  pro- 
gram, 115;  number  of  cases  of,  114, 
115;  surveillance  systems  for,  115 

Ada  people,  81,88 

Adamafio,  Tawia:  jailed,  35,  37;  opposi- 
tion of,  to  Nkrumah,  35;  trial  of,  35- 
36 

Adangbe  people,  81 

Addo,  Edward  Akufo,  38 

Adjei,  Ako:  jailed,  35,  37;  trial  of,  35-36 

Administration  of  Estate  (Amendment) 

Law  (1986),  84 
Advanced  Level  education,  120 
Afadjato,  Mount,  63,  68 
Afram  Plains,  69 
Afram  River,  67,  70,  71 
AFRC.  See  Armed  Forces  Revolutionary 

Council 

Africa  Must  Urate  (Nkrumah) ,  33 
African  Airways  Corporation,  183 
African  Company  of  Merchants,  11;  dis- 
solved, 13-14;  Gold  Coast  controlled 
by,  14;  treaty  of,  with  Asante,  13 
African  Fund,  244 

African  Methodist  Episcopal  Church, 


104 

African  National  Congress,  244 
African  Timber  and  Plywood,  167 
Africa  Watch,  298,  300 
Afrifa,  A.A.:  in  Busia  government,  38;  in 

coup  of  1966,  36,  270;  executed,  47, 

51,  273 

agricultural  development,  159 
Agricultural  Development  Corporation, 
147 

Agricultural  Produce  Marketing  Board, 
147 

agricultural  production,  xxxii,  140,  158 

agricultural  products  {see  also  under  indi- 
vidual crops) ,  6;  bananas,  6;  cacao  {see 
also  cocoa),  xxxi,  21,  134,  158,  159; 
cassava,  6;  coffee,  68,  159;  commercial 
crops,  162-64;  cotton,  162-64;  food 
crops,  164-65;  kenaf,  162;  kola  nuts, 
133,  158;  palm,  64,  158,  159,  162;  rice, 
68;  rubber,  162;  smuggling  of,  xxxii, 
40,  44,  135;  sorghum,  6;  sugar,  162; 
timber,  158,  159;  tobacco,  162 

agriculture,  158-68;  in  the  Accra  Plains, 
63-64;  in  Akwapim-Togo  Ranges,  68; 
in  Ashanti  Uplands,  68;  Cuban  sup- 
port for,  250;  employment  in,  158; 
government  budget  for,  145-46,  159; 
in  the  high  plains,  70;  investment  in, 
186;  irrigation  in,  64,  71;  liberalization 
of,  164-65;  as  percentage  of  export 
earnings,  158;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  139,  158;  subsidies 
for,  160;  under  Supreme  Military 
Council,  xxxii;  taxes  on,  149;  in  Volta 
Delta,  64 

Ahanta  people,  81 

AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 

syndrome 
Airborne  School,  286 
air  force:  aircraft  of,  277,  286,  289-90; 

bases,  277,  287;  creation  of,  268,  289; 

foreign  assistance  to,  280;  insignia, 

282;  number  of  personnel,  257,  277; 

problems  in,  181;  ranks,  282;  training, 


355 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


280-81,  283,  289;  uniforms,  282 
Air  Force  Station,  286 
Air  Force  Trade  Training  School,  289 
airports,  183,  278 
Akan  language,  79,  81 
Akan  Lowlands,  63,  64-67;  topography 

of,  67 

Akan  people,  83-85;  chiefs  of,  84-85; 
conflicts  among,  85;  ethnic  groups  of, 
7,  83;  families  in,  83-84;  geographical 
distribution  of,  xxix,  83;  influences 
on,  83;  inheritance  among,  84;  migra- 
tion of,  6,  83;  political  system  of,  83, 
84;  religion  of,  107-8;  religious  festi- 
vals of,  103-4;  slave  trade  by,  8-9; 
socialization  of  children  by,  92;  social 
organization  of,  83-84;  stool  of,  84; 
women,  100 

Akan  states,  6 

Akenten,  Oti,  7,  262 

Akosombo  Accord  (1994),  237 

Akosombo  Dam,  xxxii,  68,  176,  178,  238; 
construction  of,  34,  71,  176;  reloca- 
tion for,  71 

Akuafo  Check  System,  160 

Akuffo,  Frederick  W.K.,  45,  272;  exe- 
cuted, 47,  51,  273 

Akufo-Addo,  Edward,  26 

Akwamu  people,  81,  83,  89 

Akwapim  language,  82 

Akwapim  people,  81;  conflict  of,  with 
other  ethnic  groups,  260;  religion  of, 
104 

Akwapim-Togo  Ranges,  63,  68;  climate 

of,  68;  ethnic  groups  in,  89 
Akyem  people,  81,  83 
aluminum  industry,  176 
Al  Yaqubi,  5 

Amnesty  International,  221,  298,  299 
Anglican  Church,  104 
Anglo  people,  85 

Ankobra  River,  67,  70,  71;  navigation  on, 

70, 182-38 
Ankra,  JA.:  in  coup  of  1966,  36,  270 
Anlo  people.  See  Anglo  people 
Annan,  Daniel  F,  53-54 
Anokye,  7 

Anum-Boso  people,  86 
Appiah,  Joseph,  38 
archaeological  research,  5,  69,  89 
Arden-Clarke,  Sir  Charles,  28,  30 
area  councils,  225,  227 


armed  forces,  xxxvi;  Africanization  of, 
268-69,  278,  286;  and  black  market, 
260,  274,  282;  British  officers  in,  268- 
69,  283;  under  British  rule,  261;  cor- 
ruption in,  260;  deployment  of,  277; 
educational  qualification  for,  279; 
growth  of,  262;  history  of,  262-66; 
materiel  of,  269,  277,  286,  289-90, 
302;  missions  of,  xxxvi,  229,  257,  268, 
271,  277;  morale,  281-82;  under 
Nkrumah,  262;  number  of  personnel 
in,  257,  277,  279;  organization  of,  277; 
peacekeeping  role  of,  xxxvi,  xxxix, 
257-58,  302;  political  organs  of,  199; 
political  role  of,  xxxvi;  purged,  46-47, 
273,  282;  term  of  service  in,  279;  train- 
ing, 279;  uniforms,  ranks,  and  insignia 
of,  282;  women  in,  279 

Armed  Forces  Revolutionary  Council 
(AFRC)  (1979),  46-47,  195;  formed, 
46,  273;  objectives  of,  195;  political 
repression  by,  201;  support  for,  47 

Armed  Forces  Training  School,  279,  286 

army:  deployment  of,  237;  development 
of,  268-70;  field  exercises,  280;  insig- 
nia, 282;  joint  exercises,  280;  number 
of  personnel  in,  257,  277;  organiza- 
tion of,  277;  ranks,  282;  training  of, 
279-80;  uniforms,  282 

Army  Staff  College  at  Camberley,  279 

asafo.  See  men's  associations 

Asamoah,  Obed,  239,  300 

Asante  confederacy,  79;  expansion  of, 
262-63 

Asante  (Ashanti)  empire,  xxx,  7-8; 
armed  forces  of,  261,  263;  British  inva- 
sion of,  15-16,  263,  264;  as  British  col- 
ony, 16,  17;  and  Europeans,  13; 
expansion  of,  xxx,  7-8,  260;  influence 
of,  7;  slave  trade  by,  8-9,  263;  trade 
through,  xxx,  133;  treaties  of,  with 
Europeans,  13,  14,  16,  264 

Asante  (Ashanti)  language,  82 

Asante  (Ashanti)  people,  17,  81,  89; 
criminal  justice  system  of,  294;  ethnic 
group  of,  7,  83;  Muslim  influence  on, 
7;  opposition  of,  to  British-style  gov- 
ernment, 29;  political  parties  of,  29, 
38;  relations  of,  with  British,  14;  rela- 
tions of,  with  Fante,  263 

Asante  (Ashanti)  wars,  12-15,  257,  263- 
66;  British  intervention  in,  13-14,  260 


356 


Index 


Ashanti.  See  Asante 

Ashanti  Goldfields  Corporation,  21, 
169;  earnings  of,  188;  expansion  of, 
170;  nationalized,  147;  privatized,  153, 
172;  production  by,  170 

Ashanti  Mines  Volunteers,  267 

Ashanti  Region,  224;  administrative  dis- 
tricts in,  227;  agriculture  in,  160;  AIDS 
in,  115;  elections  of  1992  in,  214;  min- 
ing in,  170;  political  affiliations  in,  38; 
religion  in,  104;  representation  of,  in 
Legislative  council,  26;  urbanization 
in,  76 

Ashanti  Uplands,  63,  67-68,  69;  agricul- 
ture in,  68;  forests  in,  68;  and  the 
Kwahu  Plateau,  67-68;  mining  in,  68; 
missionaries  in,  67;  rivers  in,  68;  south- 
ern, 67,  68;  temperatures  in,  67 

Association  of  Committees  for  the 
Defence  of  the  Revolution,  234 

associations  (see  also  under  individual  types 
of  associations) ,  98-99 

Attah-Ahoma,  S.R.B.,  25 

Audit  Service,  222 

Ave  people,  85 

Awoonor-Williams,  R.A.,  26 

Ayanfuri  mine,  172 

Ayensu  River,  72 

Babangida,  Ibrahim,  242 

balance  of  payments,  188-89 

balance  of  trade,  188-89 

banking,  150,  151-53;  assets  and  liabili- 
ties of,  189;  laws,  151;  reforms,  146 

Bank  of  Ghana,  77,  152,  188;  interest 
rates  of,  151,  152 

banks  (see  also  Bank  of  Ghana):  commer- 
cial, 152;  deposits  in,  152;  discount 
houses,  152;  foreign,  153;  interest 
rates  of,  151,  152;  loans  by,  152;  losses 
by,  151-52;  merchant,  152;  privatiza- 
tion of,  148;  rural,  77,  152;  secondary, 
152 

Baptist  Church,  105 

Barclays  Bank  of  Ghana,  152 

Basic  Certificate  of  Education  Examina- 
tion, 122,  124 

Battle  of  Amoafo,  265 

bauxite,  176;  export  of,  137,  141;  pro- 
duction, 136,  168 

Be  people.  SeeBey  people 


Benin:  electricity  exported  to,  178;  Ewe 

people  in,  85 
Bey  people,  85 
Billiton  Bogoso  mine,  172 
Birim  River,  67,  68,  70 
Birim  River  Basin:  mining  in,  173 
birth  control.  See  family  planning 
Black  Hebrews,  300 

black  market,  26,  141,  145,  154,  195;  par- 
ticipation by  soldiers  in,  260,  274,  282; 
as  percentage  of  gross  domestic  prod- 
uct, 154;  as  percentage  of  trade,  141 

Black  Star  Line:  job  cuts  in,  156 

Black  Volta  River,  71 

Boahen,  Adu,  206-7,  209;  in  election  of 
1992,  212 

Bolgatanga,  224 

Bond  of  1844, 15,  16 

Bono  (Brong)  people,  81,  83;  political 
affiliations  of,  38 

Bonsa  Tire  Company,  162 

Bonsa  Valley,  67 

Bonte  mining  company,  172 

Border  Guards,  292 

border  problems:  with  Togo,  239 

borders,  62;  under  British  rule,  17;  with 
Burkina  Faso,  62;  with  Cote  d'lvoire, 
62,  67,  240;  along  Gulf  of  Guinea,  62; 
with  Togo,  62,  239 

Botchwey,  Kwesi,  50,  52,  187 

Botsio,  Kojo:  in  Convention  People's 
Party,  27 

Botswana:  state  visit  to,  245 

Brazil:  materiel  from,  277 

Britain:  abolition  movement  in,  12-13, 
263;  aid  from,  176,  246;  Elmina  Castle 
purchased  by,  15;  invasion  of  Asante 
by,  15-16,  260,  264;  materiel  from, 
277;  military  assistance  from,  280,  282, 
283-86;  military  exercises  with,  286; 
military  training  provided  by,  278, 
280;  protection  by,  15;  relations  of, 
with  Asante,  13,  14,  263-64;  relations 
with,  244,  245-46,  276;  slave  trade  by, 
9;  trade  with,  143;  trading  companies, 
11;  treaties  of,  with  chiefs,  14-15; 
treaty  of,  with  Asante  (1831) ,  16,  264 

Britannia  Royal  Naval  College  at  Dart- 
mouth, 283 

British  Joint  Services  Training  Mission, 
281 

British  rule,  xxx,  16-24;  administration 


357 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


under,  17-21;  armed  forces  under, 
261-62,  266-68;  borders  under,  17; 
capital  under,  17;  chiefs  under,  xxx- 
xxxi;  economic  development  under, 
21-24;  education  under,  22,  117;  elite 
under,  xxx-xxxi,  94;  Executive  Coun- 
cil under,  xxx-xxxi,  18-19;  founda- 
tions of,  13;  indirect  rule  by,  xxx-xxxi, 
19-20,  94;  influences  of,  83,  93-94, 
217,  222;  judicial  powers  under,  16, 
20;  legal  system  under,  20;  Legislative 
Council  under,  xxx-xxxi,  18-19;  min- 
ing under,  169;  opposition  to,  27,  257, 
261,  267;  police  under,  94,  290;  postal 
service  under,  21;  prison  system 
under,  22,  294,  296;  social  develop- 
ment under,  21-24;  state  enterprises 
under,  146-47;  taxes  under,  117;  tele- 
communications under,  21;  transpor- 
tation under,  21 
British  traders,  xxx,  133,  264;  of  slaves, 
xxx,  9 

Brong-Ahafo  Region,  224;  agriculture  in, 
160;  elections  of  1992  in,  214 

Brong  people.  See  Bono  people 

budget  deficit.  See  government  budget 
deficit 

Bui  dam,  178 

Builsa  people,  87 

Bulgaria:  relations  with,  249 

Bureau  of  African  Affairs,  287,  288;  intel- 
ligence section,  288 

Bureau  for  Technical  Assistance,  269-70 

Burkina  Faso:  border  with,  62;  electricity 
exported  to,  178;  health  care  profes- 
sionals in,  113;  military  exercises  with, 
241,  280;  relations  with,  237,  240-42 

Burns  constitution.  See  constitution  of 
1946 

bush  fires?  139,  161 

Busia,  Kofi  Abrefa:  exile  of,  33;  as  head 
of  Progress  Party,  37-38;  overthrown, 
40,  153-54;  as  prime  minister,  38 

Busia  government.  See  Second  Republic 

business:  taxes  on,  149 


cacao  {see  also  cocoa):  introduction  of, 

xxxi,  21,  134 
Cade,  EA.,  169 

Cambodia:  peacekeeping  mission  in, 
237,  252,  257,  260,  293 


Campaign  for  Democracy  in  Ghana,  202; 

established,  260-61 
Campaore,  Blaise,  241 
Canada:  assistance  from,  187,  249;  joint 

ventures  with,  172;  materiel  from,  286; 

military  training  by,  280,  286;  relations 

with,  249,  276;  state  visit  to,  249 
Canadian  Armed  Forces  Training  Team, 

286 

Cape  Coast,  64,  224 

Carter,  Jimmy,  70,  247 

Carter  Center:  election  monitors  from, 

215,  246 
Casely-Hayford,  Joseph  E.,  24-25 
cassava,  6 

Catholic  Bishops  Conference  (CBC), 

105,  203,  204,  205;  and  return  to 

democracy,  204 
Catholicism,  Roman,  104;  percentage  of 

followers  in  population,  102,  103 
Catholic  missions.  See  missions 
CBC.  See  Catholic  Bishops  Conference 
CCG.  See  Christian  Council  of  Ghana 
CDRs.  See  Committees  for  the  Defence  of 

the  Revolution 
cedi.  See  currency 

census:  of  1960,  73;  of  1970,  73;  of  1984, 
73,  77 

Central  Region,  224;  agriculture  in,  160; 
mining  in,  170;  religion  in,  104 

Central  Togo  people,  89-90;  education 
of,  90;  inheritance  among,  89;  occupa- 
tions of,  89;  religion  of,  89 

Chalker,  Lynda,  246 

Chazan,  Naomi,  46,  47,  80 

chiefs  {see  also  National  House  of 
Chiefs),  61;  adjudication  for,  220; 
Akan,  84-85;  authority  of,  93;  under 
British  rule,  xxx-xxxi;  under  constitu- 
tion of  1957,  32;  under  constitution  of 
1992,  206;  in  district  assemblies,  55; 
Ewe,  85;  and  families,  93;  indirect  rule 
by,  19-20,  94;  in  legislative  assembly, 
15,  25,  29;  political  participation  by, 
199;  political  role  of,  224;  and  Rawl- 
ings,  216;  regional  houses  of,  203,  204, 
205-6,  220,  230;  relations  of,  with 
intellectuals,  25,  95;  relations  of,  with 
subjects,  94;  religious  role  of,  107-8; 
and  return  to  democracy,  204;  selec- 
tion of,  19,  93,  196;  slave  trade  by,  11- 
12;  treaties  of,  with  Britain,  14-15;  vil- 


358 


Index 


lage  councils  of,  19,  20,  32,  220 

Chieftaincy  Act  of  1971,  220 

Chieftaincy  Secretariat,  222 

children:  child  care  for,  62,  126;  health 
of,  111;  immunization  for,  112,  114; 
nutritional  programs  for,  62,  74;  pre- 
ferred number  of,  77,  78,  99-100; 
rights  of,  219;  socialization  of,  92,  98, 
117;  urban,  98 

China,  People's  Republic  of:  education 
in,  250;  joint  ventures  with,  172;  mili- 
tary advisers  from,  288;  military  assis- 
tance from,  283,  288-89;  relations 
with,  249,  289;  trade  with,  143 

Christian  Council  of  Ghana  (CCG),  104- 
5,  203,  204,  205;  and  return  to  democ- 
racy, 204 

Christianity  {see  also  under  individual 
denominations):  conversion  to,  104, 
264;  distribution  of,  81,  89,  104;  holi- 
days of,  103-4;  influence  of,  82,  93,  94; 
involvement  of,  in  politics,  105;  per- 
centage of  followers  in  population, 
102,  103;  syncretic,  108 

Christian  Messenger,  222 

Christian  Methodist  Church,  105 

Christian  missions.  See  missions;  mission- 
aries 

churches  {see  also  under  individual  denomi- 
nations) :  regulation  of,  108-9 
Citizens'  Vetting  Committees  (CVCs),  50 
civil  aviation,  183 

Civil  Defence  Organisation,  199-200 
civil  service,  222;  Convention  People's 
Party  control  of,  34;  inefficiency  of, 
43;  job  cuts  in,  145,  155,  156-57,  222; 
jobs  in,  155;  pay  in,  158;  staffing  of, 
222;  union  for,  222 
clans,  61;  of  Akan  people,  xxix,  83 
climate,  61,  72-73;  of  Akwapim-Togo 
Ranges,  68;  drought,  72-73;  humidity, 
72;  rainfall,  69-70,  72-73;  tempera- 
ture, 72,  73 
Clinton,  William  J.,  xxxix 
cocoa  {see  also  cacao),  160-61;  area 
planted  in,  161;  dependence  on,  xxx- 
vii,  40,  145;  earnings  of,  188;  export 
of,  xxix,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  xxxvii,  40,  134, 
138,  141,  147;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  139,  146;  planta- 
tions, 160-61;  prices,  135,  139,  141, 
161;  privatized,  161;  production  of, 


xxix,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  45,  51,  67,  68,  89, 

132,  135-36,  137,  158,  159,  160,  161; 

productivity  of,  161;  smuggling  of, 

xxxii,  40,  135 
Cocoa  Marketing  Board  {see  also  Ghana 

Cocoa  Board),  159-60;  created,  21; 

dissolved,  160;  incompetence  of,  40; 

role  of,  160;  subsidies  for,  160 
Cocobod.  See  Ghana  Cocoa  Board 
coffee,  68,  146,  147,  159 
Cold  War,  4 

Commission  on  Human  Rights  and 
Administrative  Justice,  230,  235,  301 

Committee  of  Experts,  223 

Committee  of  Experts  (Constitution) 
Law  (1991),  223 

Committee  of  Secretaries,  197-99 

Committees  for  the  Defence  of  the  Revo- 
lution (CDRs),  50,  199,  216,  250,  278; 
functions  of,  199;  opposition  to,  203; 
training  of,  287-88 

Common  Entrance  Examination,  120 

Commonwealth  Conference  (1964),  245 

Commonwealth  Inter-Parliamentary 
Union,  246 

Commonwealth  of  Nations:  election 
monitors  from,  215,  246;  membership 
in,  243,  245-46,  251 

Commonwealth  Parliament  Association, 
246 

communications.  See  telecommunica- 
tions 

Congo  region:  slave  trade  from,  8-9 

Consolidated  African  Selection  Trust: 
nationalized,  147 

Consolidated  Discount  House,  152 

constitution  of  1925,  25 

constitution  of  1946,  25-26 

constitution  of  1951,  28 

constitution  of  1954,  29 

constitution  of  1957,  30;  amendments 
to,  32;  chiefs  under,  32 

constitution  of  1960,  xxxi,  220;  amend- 
ments to,  xxxi,  33-34 

constitution  of  1969:  draft  of,  37;  lan- 
guage under,  82;  opposition  to,  38 

constitution  of  1979,  220;  suspended, 
274,  299 

constitution  of  1992,  217-27;  censorship 
under,  223;  checks  and  balances  in, 
217,  301;  chiefs  under,  206;  civil  ser- 
vice under,  222;  draft  of,  210;  execu- 


359 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


tive  under,  217;  government  reform 
under,  197,  219;  judiciary  under,  217, 
220;  legislature  under,  217;  media 
under,  219,  223-24;  model  for,  217; 
promulgated,  217;  referendum  on, 
210-11;  rights  in,  219 

construction:  investment  in,  186;  as  per- 
centage of  gross  domestic  product, 
139;  taxes  on,  149 

Consultative  Assembly  on  the  Constitu- 
tion (1992),  82 

consumer  goods,  144;  prices  for,  157, 
189 

Continental  Acceptances  (bank),  152 

Convention  People's  Party  (CPP),  xxxi, 
234,  268;  control  of  government  by, 
34;  in  elections  of  1956,  30;  formed, 
xxxi,  27;  leaders  of,  27;  platform  of, 
27,  29,  118;  positive  action  campaign, 
28;  as  sole  party,  33,  34,  36 

corruption,  149-50,  295;  in  armed 
forces,  260;  in  government,  xxxii,  202, 
272,  276;  among  party  leaders,  4;  in 
politics,  195 

Cote  d'lvoire:  AIDS  in,  115;  border  with, 
62,  67;  competition  by,  40;  dissidents 
in,  238,  240;  electricity  exported  to, 
178;  migrations  to,  83;  relations  with, 
237-40;  smuggling  into,  xxxii,  44,  141; 
violence  in,  240 

cotton,  162-64 

Council  of  State:  under  constitution  of 
1992,  217 

coups  d'etat  {see  also  under  revolution) , 
xxxvi;  in  Nigeria,  242;  of  1966,  xxxii, 
4,  36,  135,  194,  257,  270;  of  1972,  40, 
41-42,  43,  154,  194,  271;  of  1978,  272; 
of  1979,  193,  194,  195,  273;  of  1981, 
xxxiii,  48,  49,  51,  136,  193,  194,  195, 

273-  74,  299 

coups  d'etat,  attempted,  202,  203,  274;  of 
1967,  270;  of  1968,  270;  of  1979,  46;  of 
1982,  49,  274;  of  1983,  238,  274;  of 
1985,  274;  of  1986,  274;  of  1989,  209, 

274-  76,  300;  in  Togo,  258 

courts:  of  appeals,  217,  220,  295;  under 
British  rule,  16;  hierarchy  of,  217,  220; 
inferior,  220,  230,  295-96;  jurisdiction 
of,  217,  219-20;  procedures,  295; 
structure  of,  219-20,  295;  traditional, 
220;  trials  in,  295;  tribunals,  xxxiii,  50, 
51,  220,  221,  230-31,  295-96,  299 


Courts  Act  of  1971,219-20 
Courts  Act  of  1993,  230 
Coussey  Committee,  27,  28 
CPP.  See  Convention  People's  Party 
Crabbe,  Cofie:  jailed,  35,  37;  trial  of,  35- 
36 

crime,  155 

Criminal  Code,  221,  294-96;  categories 
in,  294,  295;  traditional  laws  in,  294 

criminal  justice  system  {see  also  courts; 
judiciary;  prisons),  219,  293-98; 
under  British  rule,  20,  294;  customary, 
20;  revisions  of,  146;  parole  in,  298; 
traditional,  293-94 

Criminal  Procedure  Code  of  1960,  295, 
297 

Croatia:  peacekeeping  missions  in,  xxx- 
viii,  257 

Cuba:  economic  cooperation  with,  250; 
education  in,  249-50;  relations  with, 
249;  trade  with,  143 

currency  {see  also  monetary  policy; 
money  supply),  150,  153-55;  on  black 
market,  154;  depreciation  of,  xxxvi, 
151;  devaluation  of,  53,  131,  135,  137, 
140, 141,  144,  145,  154,  176, 189;  over- 
valuation of,  xxxii,  153-54,  165,  168, 
175;  revaluation  of,  43 

current  account  deficit,  137,  188 

Curtin,  Philip,  12 

Customary  Marriage  and  Divorce  (Regis- 
tration) Law  (1986),  84 
CVCs.  See  Citizens'  Vetting  Committees 

Dadzie,  Kenneth,  252 

Dagbane  language,  82 

Dagomba  kingdom,  xxix,  xxx;  founded, 
6;  influences  on,  xxix,  7 

Dagomba  people,  xxix,  79-80,  87;  cul- 
ture of,  88;  inheritance  among,  101 

Dahomean  people,  89 

Daily  Graphic,  222 

Daka  River,  71 

Danquah,  J.B.,  26,  33,  209;  death  of,  33 
Darko,  Kwabena:  in  election  of  1992,  212 
De  Beers  of  South  Africa,  173 
debt  servicing:  ratio,  137,  140 
defense  spending:  decrease  in,  271,  301- 

2;  under  Nkrumah,  276 
democracy,  return  to,  xxxiv-xxxvi,  193, 

196,  200-203,  208-11,  230-35;  interest 


360 


Index 


groups  in,  204;  prospects  for,  252-53; 
seminars  on,  209;  timetable  for,  210 
Democratic  Youth  League  of  Ghana,  200 
demonstrations.  See  political  demonstra- 
tions 
Denkyira,  83,  262 

Denmark:  and  the  Asante  empire,  13; 
slave  trade  by,  xxx,  9,  12;  trade  by,  xxx, 
11 

Densu  River,  67,  70,  72 

Department  of  Social  Welfare  and  Com- 
munity Development,  220 

Department  III,  Military  Intelligence, 
269-70 

deportation:  under  Armed  Forces  Revo- 
lutionary Council,  201;  under  Busia 
government,  39;  of  Liberians,  259; 
under  Rawlings,  49,  259;  return  from, 
52,  199 

Deportation  Act  (1957),  32;  justification 
of,  34 

Detention  Act.  See  Preventive  Detention 
Act 

development  committees,  224 

diamonds,  173;  exports  of,  51,  137,  141; 
production  of,  67,  136,  168;  reserves 
of,  173;  smuggling  of,  173 

Diamond  Shamrock,  174 

district  assemblies,  53-57;  candidates  for, 
54-55;  chiefs  in,  55;  elections  for,  54, 
197,  206-8,  225,  232,  235,  246;  estab- 
lishment of,  197,  224;  justification  of, 
56-57;  members  of,  55,  225;  reaction 
to,  56;  role  of,  54,  208,  225 

District  Assemblies  Common  Fund,  230 

District  Assembly  Committee,  54 

district  councils,  225 

Divestiture  Implementation  Committee, 
148 

drainage:  under  British  rule,  22;  divide, 

70-71;  improvements  in,  22 
drought,  72-73,  136,  139,  161,  164,  176 
Dual  Mandate  in  British  Tropical  Africa 

(Lugard),  94 
DuBois,  W.E.B.,  27,  244 
Du  Sautoy,  Peter,  196 
Dutch  traders,  9-11,  133;  and  the  Asante 

empire,  13;  of  slaves,  9 
Dutch  West  India  Company,  1 1 
Dyula  (Muslim  traders),  6 
Dzobo,  N.K.,  124 
Dzobo  Committee,  124 


Eagle  Club,  210 

Eastern  Europe,  4;  relations  with,  249 

Eastern  Region,  224;  agriculture  in,  160; 
elections  of  1992  in,  214 

East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 
Republic 

EC.  See  European  Community 

Ecobank  Ghana,  152 

ECOMOG.  See  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  Monitoring  Group 

Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS),  183;  founded,  143; 
goals  of,  143;  membership  in,  143, 
237,  242;  peacekeeping  missions  of, 
258,  259-60,  302;  Rawlings  in,  xxxviii, 
237,  239,  243 

Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  Monitoring  Group  (ECO- 
MOG): peacekeeping  missions  of, 
278,  281,  282,  302 

economic  development:  under  British 
rule,  21-24;  under  Economic  Recov- 
ery Program,  144;  effects  of,  94;  priori- 
ties in,  42;  problems  with,  42 

economic  infrastructure,  189 

economic  instability:  protests  against,  26; 
after  World  War  II,  24 

Economic  Recovery  Program  (ERP), 
xxxiii,  xxxvii,  52,  102,  136,  140,  144- 
46,  203,  229,  276;  defense  spending 
under,  301-2;  education  under,  124; 
exports  under,  136;  foreign  debt 
under,  138,  140;  goals  of,  52-53,  136, 
144,  148;  gross  domestic  product 
under,  139;  impact  of,  214;  launched, 
144;  phases  of,  52-53,  144-45;  prob- 
lems with,  xxxvi-xxxvii;  purpose  of, 
144;  results  of,  189-90;  trade  under, 
140-41 

economy:  under  British  rule,  xxix; 

dependence  of,  on  cocoa,  xxxvii,  40, 

145;  diversification  of,  135;  in  First 

Republic,  134-35;  growth  of,  139,  189; 

market,  94,  131;  problems  in,  37; 

recovery  of,  4;  restructuring  of,  131; 

role  of  government  in,  131;  structure 

of,  137-44 
ECOWAS.  See  Economic  Community  of 

West  African  States 
education  {see  also  schools) ,  117-126; 


361 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


adult,  124-26;  apprenticeship,  117; 
under  British  rule,  xxix,  22,  117;  com- 
pulsory, 61;  Cuban  support  for,  250; 
demand  for,  118;  development  of, 
118;  distribution  of,  81;  effects  of,  94; 
of  elite,  81;  by  ethnic  group,  90;  fees 
for,  xxxiii,  36,  118,  122,  123-24,  155; 
foreign,  123,  249-50;  gender  ratio  in, 
101;  government  spending  on,  22,  34, 
123,  137,  149;  and  migration,  96;  pri- 
mary, 146;  problems  in,  123-24; 
reform,  95,  121-22,  124,  249-50;  sec- 
ondary, 118;  subsidies  for,  122;  system, 
22,  120-23;  technical,  62;  vocational, 
62,  118;  Western,  xxxi,  61,  94,  117;  of 
women,  61-62, 101,  118,  121, 126 
Education  Act  of  1960,  61,  104, 120 
Efutu  people,  86;  religion  of,  107-8 
elders,  92;  religious  role  of,  107-8 
elections:  candidates  in,  54-55,  211-12, 

215,  235;  for  constitution  of  1992,  211; 
for  district  assemblies,  54,  197,  206-8, 
225,  232,  235,  246;  fraud  charges  in, 
xxxiv,  32;  Ghanaian  idea  of,  196;  for 
Legislative  Assembly,  28,  29;  for  local 
office,  232,  235;  of  1951,  28;  of  1954, 
29;  of  1956,  30;  of  1960,  33;  of  1965, 
36;  of  1969,  37-38;  of  1978,  45;  of 
1979,  47,  195,  273;  of  1988,  xxxiv,  54, 
197,  206,  208,  246;  of  1989,  xxxiv,  208, 
246;  of  1994,  235;  for  parliament,  195, 
197,  210,  214,  215-16,  217;  for  presi- 
dent, xxxiv,  195,  197,  210,  211-15, 

216,  246;  turnout  for,  208,  211,  216; 
for  union  government,  45;  women  in, 
215-16,  235 

elections  of  1992,  xxxiv,  194,  197,  210, 
211-15,  246;  Boahen  in,  212-14;  boy- 
cott of,  xxxiv,  214,  228;  candidates  in, 
211-12,  215;  Erskine  in,  212,  214; 
international  monitoring  of,  215,  246; 
investigations  of,  214,  233:  issues  in, 
212;  Limann  in,  212,  214;  for  parlia- 
ment, 215-16;  Rawlings  in,  xxxiv,  212, 

214,  216;  in  regions,  214;  turnout  for, 

215,  216 

Electricity  Corporation  of  Ghana,  178 
electric  power  {see  also  hydroelectricity), 
178-79;  under  British  rule,  147;  capac- 
ity, 178;  distribution  of,  178;  export  of, 
141,  178,  238;  grid,  77;  production, 
178,  251;  in  rural  areas,  62,  77,  117; 


thermal,  178-79,  251 

elite  class,  96-98;  background  of,  96-98; 
under  British  rule,  xxxi,  94;  education 
of,  22;  nationalism  among,  24,  25; 
political  participation  by,  199;  religion 
of,  108 

Elizabeth  II,  Queen,  245 

Elmina  Castle,  9,  133;  purchased  by  Brit- 
ain, 15 

employment,  156 

English  language,  82;  broadcasts  in,  82, 
184;  under  constitution  of  1969,  82;  as 
language  of  instruction,  82,  118;  as 
official  language,  82,  83,  206;  publica- 
tions in,  223 

ERR  See  Economic  Recovery  Program 

Erskine,  Emmanuel,  212,  214 

Ethiopia:  relations  with,  249 

ethnic  associations,  96 

ethnic  groups  {see  also  under  individual 
groups),  xxix;  distinctions  among,  81, 
267;  fighting  among,  75,  79,  234,  260; 
geographic  distribution  of,  81,  241; 
identification  with,  81;  migration  of,  3, 
5;  rivalries  among,  79-80,  85,  235,  282; 
solidarity  among,  79 

ethnicity,  260 

Europe,  Eastern:  trade  with,  143-44 
European  Community  (EC):  aid  from, 

187;  relations  with,  249;  trade  with, 

143 

Evangelical  Lutheran  Church,  105 
Evangelical  Presbyterian  Church,  104 
Every  Ghanaian  Living  Everywhere 
Party:  in  Progressive  Alliance,  215,  230 
Ewe  language,  79,  81,  82,  85,  86 
Ewe  people,  8,  9,  30,  81,  85-86,  89,  297; 
chiefs  of,  85;  conflict  of,  with  other 
ethnic  groups,  260;  ethnic  groups  of, 
85;  geographic  distribution  of,  85, 
238;  inheritance  among,  101;  migra- 
tion of,  85;  political  affiliations  of,  38; 
political  organization  of,  85-86;  politi- 
cal power  of,  201,  207,  271;  religion 
of,  107;  trade  by,  86;  women,  86 
Ewusi,  Thomas,  12 
exchange  rate,  154 
Exclusive  Economic  Zone,  167 
executive  branch  {see  also  president),  217 
Executive  Council,  28,  272 
Expanded  Program  on  Immunization, 
112 


362 


Index 


exports  {see  also  under  individual  prod- 
ucts), 61,  137,  141;  of  bauxite,  137, 
141;  of  cocoa,  xxix,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  xxx- 
vii,  40,  51,  134,  138,  141,  147;  of  cof- 
fee, 147;  under  colonial  rule,  146;  of 
crops,  162;  destinations  of,  143;  of  dia- 
monds, 51,  137,  141;  diversification  of, 
138-39,  142;  earnings  from,  136,  158; 
under  Economic  Recovery  Program, 
136,  144;  of  electricity,  141,  178,  238; 
of  gold,  xxix,  xxxvii,  5,  21,  67,  132, 
133,  137,  141;  of  ivory,  133;  of  kola 
nuts,  133,  141;  of  manganese,  137, 
173;  of  minerals,  xxix,  xxxiii,  137,  138, 
141,  173;  of  natural  resources,  21-22; 
of  palm  oil,  146,  147;  promotion  of, 
145;  of  slaves,  9,  12-13;  under  struc- 
tural adjustment  program,  131;  of  tim- 
ber, xxix,  xxxiii,  xxxvii,  21,  51,  132, 
138,  141, 165,  166;  value  of,  143 

external  debt,  184,  187 

Eyadema,  Gnassingbe,  238;  coup 
attempt  against,  258;  opposition  to, 
259 


families:  and  chiefs,  93;  elders  of,  92, 
107-8;  head  of,  91;  inheritance  in,  92; 
land  of,  92;  preferred  size  of,  77,  78, 
99-100;  religious  role  of,  107-8;  rural, 
77;  socialization  in,  92;  urban,  77,  98 

families,  extended,  62,  90-92;  of  Akan 
people,  83-84,  90-91;  economic  assis- 
tance from,  115-16;  members  of,  90, 
91;  and  modernization,  95;  in  urban 
areas,  96 

family  planning,  62,  77-79,  126;  educa- 
tion in,  78;  and  men,  79;  practice  of, 
79;  publicity  for,  78 

Fante  language,  82 

Fante  people,  8,  9,  81,  83;  in  Asante  wars, 
13-14,  263;  conflict  of,  with  other  eth- 
nic groups,  260;  relations  of,  with 
Asante,  263;  religion  of,  104;  treaty  of, 
with  British,  15 

Fante-Twi  language,  82 

farmers,  26,  87;  Nkrumah's  appeal  for, 
27-28;  organizations  of,  200;  protests 
by,  34-35 

FEden  Church,  105 

Finland:  materiel  from,  277 

First  Finance  Company,  152 


First  Republic  (1960-66)  (Nkrumah  gov- 
ernment): armed  forces  under,  257, 
262,  276;  corruption  in,  202;  declared, 
30;  domestic  policies  of,  xxxi;  econ- 
omy under,  134-35;  problems  in,  194- 
95;  socialism  under,  257 

Fisheries  Commission,  230 

Fisheries  Monitoring,  Control,  Surveil- 
lance, and  Enforcement  Unit,  168 

fishing,  72,  100,  167-68;  catch,  167;  in 
Accra  Plains,  64;  by  Ga-Adangbe  peo- 
ple, 89;  poaching,  167;  problems  in, 
167;  restrictions  on,  132,  167-68;  in 
Volta  Delta,  64 

Fitzgerald,  Shepler  W.,  268 

food:  aid,  247;  crops,  164-65;  import  of, 
159,  164;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  146;  prices,  140; 
production,  44,  67,  140,  145,  159,  164; 
shortages,  159;  subsidies  for,  43 

Forces'  Defence  Committees,  199 

foreign  assistance  {see  also  military  assis- 
tance), 52,  137,  184,  186-87;  for  agri- 
culture, 165;  from  Britain,  176,  246; 
from  Canada,  187,  249;  dependence 
on,  150;  from  European  Community, 
187;  from  France,  249;  from  Germany, 
187,  249;  from  International  Mone- 
tary Fund,  131,  187-88;  for  industry, 
177;  from  Japan,  187,  250,  251;  lack  of, 
44;  from  Libya,  247;  under  Rawlings, 
52;  from  the  United  States,  78,  176, 
187,  235,  247;  from  the  World  Bank, 
52,  131,  146,  176,  187 

foreign  borrowing,  xxxii,  144;  to  finance 
imports,  137 

foreign  currency,  40;  reserves,  xxix,  xxxii 

foreign  debt,  xxxiii,  xxxvii,  132,  140, 
187-88;  under  Busia  government,  40, 
135;  cancellation  of,  140;  under  Eco- 
nomic Recovery  Program,  138,  144; 
under  Fourth  Republic,  52;  as  per- 
centage of  gross  domestic  product,  40; 
as  percentage  of  gross  national  prod- 
uct, 137;  repudiation  of,  43;  resched- 
uling of,  43 

foreign  earnings,  150 

foreign  exchange:  bureaus,  145,  154-55; 
earnings,  153,  165;  under  Economic 
Recovery  Program,  144;  interbank 
market,  141;  lack  of,  44;  reforms,  145; 
reserves,  188-89 


363 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


foreign  investment  {see  also  investment), 
xxxiv,  137,  184,  187-88;  in  agriculture, 
186;  in  construction,  186;  encourage- 
ment of,  186;  in  industry,  177,  186;  in 
mining,  137,  168,  169;  in  tourism,  186 

foreign  relations,  235-52;  armed  forces 
and,  268;  objectives  of,  235-37 

Forest  Products  Inspection  Bureau,  165 

Forest  Resource  Management  Project, 
166 

forestry  {see  also  timber),  165-67;  con- 
straints on,  166-67;  earnings  from, 
165;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  165;  problems  in,  166;  prod- 
ucts, 166;  scandals  in,  167 

Forestry  Commission,  230 

forests  {see  also  timber):  in  Akwapim- 
Togo  Ranges,  68;  in  Ashanti  Uplands, 
68;  deforestation  of,  132,  166 

forest  zone,  xxix;  central,  7;  gold  in,  xxx; 
migration  to,  6 

Fourth  Republic  (1993-  ),  48,  194,  197; 
armed  forces'  role  in,  xxxvi;  chal- 
lenges for,  228;  continuity  in,  229-30; 
goals  of,  229;  inauguration  of,  xxxiv, 
201,  210,  227-30;  nonalignment 
under,  236;  opposition  to,  xxxiv- 
xxxvi,  53;  paramilitary  groups  under, 
234;  press  under,  224;  relations  of, 
with  opposition,  229,  234;  revolution- 
ary organs  under,  xxxiii,  xxxiv,  50,  56, 
199,  203,  216,  224,  234,  250,  278,  287- 
88;  structural  adjustment  under,  xxxiv; 
unions  under,  204 

Frafra  people,  87 

France:  aid  from,  249;  colonial  ambi- 
tions of,  17;  relations  with,  249 

French  language:  broadcasts  in,  184 

Friends  of  Busia  and  Danquah,  210 

Friends  of  the  Earth,  167 

fuel  {see  also  petroleum):  imports  of,  137, 
141;  shortages  of,  167;  taxes  on,  150 


GA.  See  Ghana  Airways 
Ga-Adangbe  language,  79,  81,  88 
Ga-Adangbe  people,  8,  81,  88-89;  ethnic 
components  of,  88;  geographic  distri- 
bution of,  88;  influences  on,  89;  occu- 
pations of,  89;  origins  of,  89;  religious 
festivals  of,  103-4,  107-8 
Ga  language,  82 


Ga-Mashie  people,  88 
Gambaga  Scarp,  69 

Ga  people,  9,  81,  297;  in  Asante  wars, 
13-14;  conflict  of,  with  other  ethnic 
groups,  260;  socialization  of  children 
by,  92 

gas,  natural:  exploration  for,  67 
GBA.  See  Ghana  Bar  Association 
Gbedemah,  Komla  A.:  in  Convention 

People's  Party,  27;  as  head  of  National 

Alliance  of  Liberals,  37-38 
Gbugble  people,  88 
GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
Gen  people,  85 

geographical  regions,  63-70,  224; 
administration  of,  227;  Akwapim-Togo 
Ranges,  68;  Ashanti  Uplands,  67-68; 
high  plains,  69-70;  low  plains,  63-67; 
Volta  Basin,  69 

German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many): military  assistance  from,  283, 
288 

Germany:  aid  from,  187,  249;  colonial 
ambitions  of,  17;  relations  with,  249; 
trade  with,  143 
Ghana:  etymology  of,  5 
Ghana  Airways  (GA),  183,  277 
Ghana  Atomic  Energy  Commission,  179 
Ghana  Bar  Association  (GBA),  99,  203, 
209,  221;  objectives  of,  205;  opposition 
of,  to  Rawlings,  49,  53;  and  return  to 
democracy,  204,  231 
Ghana  Broadcasting  Corporation,  507, 
232 

Ghana  Cocoa  Board  (Cocobod)  {see  also 
Cocoa  Marketing  Board),  160,  188, 
222;  job  cuts  in,  156;  privatization  by, 
161 

Ghana  Commercial  Bank,  152 
Ghana  Committee  on  Human  and  Peo- 
ple's Rights,  235,  301 
Ghana  Consolidated  Diamonds,  148,  173 
Ghana  Cotton  Company,  164 
Ghana  Cotton  Development  Board,  164 
Ghana  Council  of  Churches,  109 
Ghana  Democratic  Movement,  202,  261 
Ghana  Employers  Association,  158 
Ghana  Export  Promotion  Council,  143 
Ghana  Federation  of  Agricultural  Coop- 
eratives, 160 
Ghana-Guinea-Mali  Union,  240-41,  243 
Ghana-Guinea  Union,  243 


364 


Index 


Ghanaian  Ahmadiyah  Movement,  107 
Ghanaian  Times,  222 
Ghana  Investment  Center,  177,  186 
Ghana  Journalists  Association,  203,  223 
Ghana  Legion,  268 
Ghana  Medical  Association,  99,  113 
Ghana  Military  Academy,  271,  276,  279, 
286 

Ghana  National  Association  of  Farmers 

and  Fishermen,  160 
Ghana  National  Association  of  Teachers, 

99 

Ghana  National  Manganese  Corpora- 
tion, 174 

Ghana  National  Petroleum  Corporation, 
174,  175 

Ghana  National  Trading  Corporation, 
156 

Ghana  Red  Cross  Society,  99 
Ghana  Stock  Exchange,  153 
Ghana  Timber  Marketing  Board,  165 
Global  2000  program,  70,  75,  114,  247 
GNP.  See  gross  national  product 
gold  {see  also  under  mining),  xxx,  6,  131, 
132,  133,  169-72;  export  of,  xxix,  xxx- 
vii,  5,  21,  67, 132, 133, 137, 141;  mines, 
xxxi,  68,  168;  prices,  133;  production, 
xxix,  67,  132,  134,  136,  139,  168; 
reserves,  170-72;  trade  in,  xxx,  5,  9, 
13,  133 

Gold  Coast  Armed  Police  Force,  290 
Gold  Coast  Colony,  17,  95;  administra- 
tion of,  17-21;  established,  16 
Gold  Coast  Constabulary,  290 
Gold  Coast  Ex-Servicemen's  Union,  268 
Gold  Coast  Militia  and  Police,  290 
Gold  Coast  Mines  Volunteers,  267 
Gold  Coast  Police  Force,  290,  292;  Afri- 
canized, 292 
Gold  Coast  Railway  Volunteers,  267 
Gold  Coast  Regiment,  22,  266-67,  290 
Gold  Coast  Volunteer  Naval  Force,  278 
Gold  Coast  Volunteers,  267 
Goldenrae  mining  company,  172 
Golden  Stool  of  Asante  (Ashanti),  8,  266 
Gonja  kingdom,  xxix,  xxx,  6;  influences 

on,  xxix,  7 
Gonja  people,  xxix,  79-80,  86,  89;  cul- 
ture of,  88;  occupations  of,  87 
government  (see  also  under  individual 
administrations):  under  British  rule, 
xxix;  corruption  in,  xxxii,  202,  272, 


276;  decentralization  of,  193,  203,  219, 
224,  246;  health  care,  112;  informants 
for,  261;  and  interest  groups,  203-4; 
reform  of,  xxix,  xxxiii,  xxxiv,  197;  role 
of,  in  economy,  131,  144-50 

government,  local  (see  also  under  district 
assemblies),  219,  224-27;  under  British 
rule,  19,  20-21,  25-26;  system  of,  225 

government  budget,  148-50;  for  agricul- 
ture, 145-46,  159;  austerity,  34,  40,  43, 
137,  271;  cuts,  131,  144;  for  infrastruc- 
ture, 146,  149;  for  1961,  34-35;  for 
1993,  149;  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  145;  surplus,  xxxvii; 
in  Third  Republic,  48 

government  budget  deficit,  xxxvi,  150; 
efforts  to  limit,  148-49;  under  Eco- 
nomic Recovery  Program,  144,  148- 
49;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  145,  149;  as  percentage  of 
gross  national  product,  48;  reduced, 
131,  144 

government  debt,  40;  repudiation  of,  43; 
rescheduling  of,  43 

government  revenue:  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  150;  from 
taxes,  132,  136 

government  spending:  cuts,  144,  145;  on 
education,  22,  34,  42,  123,  149;  on 
health  care,  34,  114,  137,  149;  justifica- 
tion of,  34;  on  roads,  34;  on  social  wel- 
fare, 149 

government,  union,  44-45,  206,  272; 

opposition  to,  45,  272;  platform  of,  45; 

referendum  on,  45,  272 
Grant,  A.G.,  26 

Greater  Accra  Municipal  Council,  112 

Greater  Accra  Region,  224;  administra- 
tive districts  in,  227;  elections  of  1992 
in,  214;  population  density  in,  74; 
urbanization  in,  76 

gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  136, 
137-38,  139;  under  Economic  Recov- 
ery Program,  139;  under  Rawlings, 
xxxvii,  51;  per  capita,  135 

gross  domestic  product  fractions:  agri- 
culture, 139,  158;  black  market,  154; 
budget  deficit,  145,  149;  cocoa,  139, 
146;  construction,  139;  expenditures, 
149;  food,  146;  forestry,  165;  govern- 
ment debt,  40;  government  revenue, 
150;  government  services,  137;  indus- 


365 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


try,  139;  manufacturing,  139,  175;  ser- 
vice sector,  139;  tax  revenue,  136 

gross  national  product  (GNP),  xxxiii; 
budget  deficit  as  percentage  of,  48; 
debt  as  percentage  of,  137 

Grusi  language,  82,  83 

Grusi  people,  81,  87 

Guan  language,  79,  86 

Guan  people,  86-87,  89 

Guggisberg,  Frederick  Gordon,  22,  110- 
11;  development  under,  22,  118 

Guinea:  potential  union  with,  34 

Gulf  of  Guinea,  62,  70,  71 

Gur  language,  61,  81,  81,  82,  87 

Gurma  language,  82 

Gurma  people,  81,  87 

harbors,  xxxi,  22,  63,  181,  182 

Harlley,  J.W.K.:  in  Busia  government,  38; 
in  coup  of  1966,  36,  270 

Hausa  Constabulary,  290 

Hausa  language,  82;  broadcasts  in,  184 

Head  of  Family  (Accountability)  Law 
(1986),  84 

health,  109-115;  and  causes  of  death, 
111;  of  children,  111;  and  disease,  75, 
111-12;  and  malnutrition,  111,  114 

Health  Action  Plan,  112 

health  care,  xxxii,  111-14,  146;  access  to, 
114;  Cuban  support  for,  250;  fees  for, 
xxxiii;  government  spending  on,  34, 
114,  137,  149;  herbal,  110;  immuniza- 
tion, 112;  providers,  112;  in  rural 
areas,  114;  Western,  110 

health  care  professionals:  herbalists,  110, 
117;  priests  as,  108,  109,  110;  number 
of,  113-14;  pay  for,  158;  training  for, 
78,114 

health  facilities:  under  British  rule,  22; 
demand  for,  74;  improvements  in,  22 

Henry  the  Navigator,  Prince,  9 

High  Court  of  Justice,  217,  220,  295 

high  plains,  63,  69-70 

Hill,  H.  Worsley,  14-15 

holidays:  national,  103-4,  232-33;  reli- 
gious, 103-4 

Hong  Kong:  joint  ventures  with,  172 

Ho,  224 

Ho  people,  85 

Horton,  Africanus,  Jr.,  25 

housing:  destroyed  by  floods,  64;  short- 


ages, 62,  74,  116-17;  in  urban  areas, 
62,  74,  116-17 
human  rights,  219,  235,  298-301;  abuses, 
xxxvi,  194,  201,  214,  216,  221,  298, 
299;  under  Acheampong,  298-99; 
under  Busia  government,  298;  under 
Provisional  National  Defence  Council, 
214 

hydroelectricity,  71,  178;  under  British 
rule,  22;  improvements  in,  22;  poten- 
tial, 176,  178 


IDA.  See  International  Development 
Association 

IMET.  See  International  Military  Educa- 
tion and  Training 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 

immunization,  112,  114 

imports,  134,  141-42,  189;  borrowing 
for,  137,  145;  duties  on,  141;  of  food, 
43,  164;  of  fuel,  137,  141;  subsidies  for, 
43;  taxes  on,  149 

income  {see  also  wages):  distribution, 
xxxiv,  100;  per  capita,  xxix,  xxxii, 
xxxiii,  157 

independence,  xxix,  33;  approved,  xxxi, 
30;  requested,  30 

independence  movements,  xxxi;  politics 
of,  26-30 

Independent  African  Churches:  percent- 
age of  followers  in  population,  102-3, 
108 

India:  military  advisers  from,  283;  mili- 
tary training  by,  280 
indirect  rule,  xxx-xxxi,  19-20,  26,  94 
Industrial  Development  Corporation, 
147 

industry:  closings  in,  177;  economic 
problems  of,  44;  financial  assistance 
for,  177;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  139;  privatization  in,  177; 
revived,  131 

inflation,  xxxiii,  xxxvi,  xxxvii,  140,  168; 
attempts  to  reduce,  52,  144;  under 
British  rule,  26,  27;  under  Busia  gov- 
ernment, 40;  rate  of,  52,  136,  136,  152; 
under  Rawlings,  51,  52,  138;  under 
structural  adjustment  program,  131- 
32;  under  Supreme  Military  Council, 
45;  under  Third  Republic,  48;  after 
World  War  II,  24 


366 


Index 


infrastructure,  166;  budget  for,  146,  149; 
improvements  in,  22,  61,  144,  145, 
146;  industrial,  131;  transportation, 
165 

inheritance,  84,  89,  92,  100,  101 
Institute  of  Adult  Education,  125 
intellectuals,  27;  opposition  of,  to  mili- 
tary government,  44;  relations  of,  with 
chiefs,  25,  95 
intelligence:  services,  269-70,  288;  train- 
ing, 288 

interest  groups,  203-6;  and  government, 
203-4;  and  Rawlings,  216 

Interim  National  Electoral  Commission, 
210,  211,  215 

internal  security:  intelligence  services, 
269-70,  288 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization 

International  Cocoa  Agreement,  247 

International  Development  Association 
(IDA),  178,  187 

International  Finance  Corporation,  172 

International  Foundation  for  Electoral 
Systems,  211 

International  Military  Education  and 
Training  (IMET)  program,  289 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF): 
assistance  packages,  131,  187-88;  aus- 
terity program  of,  xxxiii,  40,  131,  203, 
236,  276,  301-2;  conditions  imposed 
by,  148;  loan  from,  136,  140,  145 

International  Telecommunications  Sat- 
ellite Organization  (Intelsat),  184 

Inter-Party  Advisory  Committee,  228 

Intestate  Succession  Law  (1986),  84 

investment  {see  also  foreign  investment) , 
xxxiv,  xxxvi,  186-87;  in  agriculture, 
186;  in  construction,  186;  laws,  187;  in 
manganese,  174;  in  manufacturing, 
186;  and  taxes,  186;  in  tourism,  186 

Iraq:  peacekeeping  mission  in,  252,  257, 
260 

Iraq-Kuwait  Observation  Mission,  260 
irrigation:  in  Accra  Plains,  64;  from  Lake 
Volta,  71 

Islam  {see  also  Muslims) ,  105-6;  distribu- 
tion of,  86,  104;  education  of,  251;  fes- 
tivals of,  103-4;  introduction  of,  xxix- 
xxx;  percentage  of  followers  in  popu- 
lation, 102,  103;  ritual  obligations  of, 
106;  sects  of,  106;  spread  of,  106; 


tenets  of,  105-6 
Islamism,  106 

Israel,  251;  materiel  from,  277;  military 
advisers  from,  283,289;  military  train- 
ing by,  280-81,289 

Italy:  materiel  from,  277;  military  train- 
ing by,  280-81,  289-90 

ivory,  9,  133 

Ivory  Coast.  See  Cote  d'lvoire 

Japan,  250-51;  aid  from,  187,  250,  251 

JCCs.  See  Joint  Consultative  Committees 

Jehovah's  Witnesses,  300 

jobs,  132;  civil  service,  155, 156, 157,  222; 
creation  of,  137,  146;  elimination  of, 
137,  145,  155,  156-57,  160,  222 

Joint  Consultative  Committees  (JCCs), 
50 

Joint  Services  Training  Team,  283 
Joint  Social  Action  Committee,  205 
joint  ventures,  148,  172,  177 
journalists,  223;  detained,  44;  Nkru- 

mah's  appeal  for,  28 
JP.  See  Justice  Party 
judges:  appointment  of,  220 
Judicial  Council  of  Ghana,  220,  231 
judiciary,  xxxvi,  217,  219-21;  jurisdiction 
of,  219-20;  quasi-judicial  agencies, 
220-21;  structure  of,  219-20 
June  4  Movement,  48,  56,  199,  200 
Justice  Party  (JP),  38;  formed,  38;  plat- 
form of,  39-40;  support  for,  38 

Kabesjohn,  12 
Kaiser  Aluminum,  176 
Kasena  language,  83 

Kasena  people:  government  structure  of, 

xxix,  7;  Muslim  influence  on,  xxix- 

xxx,  7 

Kaunda,  Kenneth,  245 
kenaf,  162 
Kloli  people,  81 

KNRG.  See  Kwame  Nkrumah  Revolution- 
ary Guards 
Koforidua,  67,  224 
kola  nuts,  133,  141,  158 
Komfo  Anokye  Teaching  Hospital,  114 
Konkomba  people,  79-80 
Konkori  Scarp,  69 
Konny.John,  12 


367 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Konongo,  68 

Koranteng-Addow,  Gustav,  44 

Korea,  Democratic  People's  Republic  of 

(North  Korea):  relations  with,  249 
Korle  Bu  teaching  hospital,  111 
Korsah,  Sir  Arku,  36 
Kotei,  J.EA.,  277 

Kotoka,  E.K:  in  coup  of  1966,  36,  270 
Kotoka  International  Airport,  183 
Kpando  people,  85 
Kpone  people,  88 
Kpong  hydroelectric  plant,  178 
Kristo  Asafo  (Christian  Women's  Club), 
99 

Krobo  people,  81,  88,  92 

Kumasi,  xxx,  7,  68,  224,  262;  airport  at, 

183;  rainfall  in,  73 
Kumasi  College  of  Technology,  123 
Kusase  people,  87;  government  structure 

of,  7;  Muslim  influence  on,  7 
Kuwait:  peacekeeping  mission  in,  252, 

257,  260 

Kuwaiti  Fund  for  Arab  Economic  Devel- 
opment, 251 
Kaw  language,  61 

Kwahu  people,  81;  ethnic  associations  of, 
96 

Kwahu  Plateau,  67-68,  69,  71;  as  climatic 
divide,  72;  mutual  aid  societies  in,  96; 
population  density  in,  74-75 

Kwa  language  group,  81 

Kwame  Nkrumah  Ideological  Institute, 
287 

Kwame  Nkrumah  Memorial  Park,  252 
Kwame  Nkrumah  Revolutionary  Guards 

(KNRG),50, 197,  209,  261 
Kwame  Nkrumah  Welfare  Society,  210 
Kwesikrom  mine,  174 
Kyerepong  people,  86 

labor  force.  See  work  force 
labor  unions.  See  trade  unions 
Lake  Bosumtwi,  70,  72 
Lake  Volta,  68,  69,  70,  183;  irrigation 
from,  71 

land:  area,  61,  63;  of  families,  92;  tenure, 
24 

language  {see  also  under  individual  lan- 
guages), 61;  for  broadcasts,  82,  184; 
diversity  of,  82-83;  of  education,  82, 
118;  official,  82,  83,  206;  written,  82- 


83 

La  people,  88 

Larteh  people,  86 

Lazare  Kaplan  International,  173 

Leaf  Development  Company,  162 

Lebanon:  immigrants  from,  300;  peace- 
keeping mission  in,  xxxviii,  257,  260 

legal  system.  See  criminal  justice  system 

Legislative  Assembly,  28;  chiefs  in,  15,  25, 
29;  dissolved,  30;  elections  for,  28,  29 

Legislative  Council,  25-26 

Liberia:  civil  war  in,  xxxviii,  242;  Ghana- 
ians expelled  from,  259;  peacekeeping 
mission  in,  xxxviii,  xxxix,  237,  242, 
257,  278,  281,  282;  refugees  from,  75, 
259;  relations  with,  258,  259-60 

Libya:  financial  aid  from,  247;  military 
assistance  from,  290;  relations  with, 
247 

Likpe  people,  81 

Limann,  Hilla,  47,  48,  234;  in  election  of 
1992,  212,  214;  as  president,  195,  273 

Limann  government.  See  Third  Republic 

lineage,  61;  of  Akan  people,  83-84;  stool 
of,  84;  in  urban  areas,  98 

literacy,  89;  programs,  124-25;  rate,  125 

livestock,  164-65;  in  Accra  Plains,  64;  in 
high  plains,  70;  production,  166 

living  standards,  62,  136,  214 

Logba  people,  81 

Lolobi  people,  81 

low  plains,  63-67;  agriculture  in,  63-64; 

subregions  of,  63;  topography  of,  63 
Lugard,  Frederick:  and  indirect  rule,  19, 

20,  94 


MacCarthy,  Charles,  14,  264 

Machel,  Samora,  244 

Maclean,  George,  14,  264 

Madjitey,  E.R.T.,  292 

Mali,  6;  empire,  106;  potential  union 

with,  34;  trade  with,  6 
Mamprusi  kingdom,  xxix,  xxx;  founded, 

6;  influences  on,  xxix,  7 
Mamprusi  people,  xxix,  87;  culture  of, 

88 

Manchester  Congress  of  1945,  27 
Mande  language,  82 

manganese,  173-74;  earnings  from,  174; 
export  of,  137,  173;  investment  in, 
174;  production,  136,  168,  173,  174; 


368 


Index 


reserves,  174 

manufacturing,  175-77;  capacity  utiliza- 
tion, 175;  investment  in,  186;  local, 
132;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 
product,  139,  175;  production,  xxxii, 
175-76;  under  Supreme  Military 
Council,  xxxii;  taxes  on,  149 

Marxism-Leninism,  197,  267 

mass  organizations,  199-200 

materiel,  277,  302;  air  force,  277,  286, 
289-90;  armed  forces,  269,  277,  286, 
289-90,  302;  from  Brazil,  277;  from 
Britain,  277,  286;  from  Canada,  286; 
from  China,  288;  from  Finland,  277; 
from  Israel,  277;  from  Italy,  289-90; 
from  Libya,  290;  maintenance  of,  277; 
navy,  286;  from  the  Soviet  Union,  269, 
287;  from  Sweden,  277;  from  Switzer- 
land, 277 

media,  222-24;  censorship  of,  219,  223; 
under  constitution  of  1992,  219,  223- 
24;  controversy  over,  507 

Medium  Term  Agricultural  Develop- 
ment Program  1991-2000,  159 

men:  education  of,  101;  as  family  head, 
91;  and  family  planning,  79;  literacy 
of,  125;  occupations  of,  100;  prisons 
for,  298;  promiscuity  of,  79;  as  tradi- 
tional leaders,  84 

Mennonite  Church,  104 

men's  associations,  93 

Mensah,  J.H.,  261 

Merchant  Bank,  152 

merchant  marine,  183 

merchants:  British,  xxx,  9,  133,  264; 
Dutch,  9-11,  13,  133;  European,  xxx, 
3,  8,  93,  95,  264;  Muslim,  6,  11-12; 
Portuguese,  xxx,  8-11,  133,  169 

Meridian  Tobacco  Company,  162 

Methodist  Church,  104,  117 

middle  class:  under  austerity  program, 
40;  Nkrumah's  appeal  for,  28;  political 
affiliations  in,  38 

Middle  School  Leaving  Certificate  Exam- 
ination, 98,  120, 122, 124 

migration:  of  ethnic  groups,  3,  5,  83,  85, 
86;  factors  affecting,  96;  southern,  76; 
urban.  See  urban  migration 

military  advisers:  from  China,  288;  from 
India,  283;  from  Israel,  283,  289;  from 
the  Soviet  Union,  269,  287 

Military  Advisory  Committee,  272 


military  assistance,  282-90;  from  Britain, 
280,  282,  283-86;  from  Canada,  280, 
286;  from  China,  283,  288-89;  from 
German  Democratic  Republic,  283, 
288;  from  India,  280;  from  Israel,  280- 
81;  from  Italy,  280;  from  Libya,  290; 
from  Soviet  Union,  283,  286-88 

military  exercises:  with  Britain,  286;  with 
Burkina  Faso,  241;  with  United  States, 
281 

Military  Hospital,  286 

military  officers:  Africanization  of  corps 
of,  257;  corruption  of,  273;  coups 
d'etat  by,  270;  difficulties  for,  271;  exe- 
cutions of,  273;  term  of  service  for, 
279;  training  of,  279 

military  training,  279-81;  by  Britain,  281; 
by  China,  288-89;  by  India,  289;  by 
Israel,  289;  by  Italy,  280-81;  by  Libya, 
290;  by  Nigeria,  281;  by  Soviet  Union, 
287;  by  United  States,  289 

militia.  See  Civil  Defence  Organisation; 
People's  Militia 

minerals:  export  of,  xxix,  137,  138,  141, 
173;  production  of,  xxix,  136,  168, 
173,  174 

Minerals  and  Mining  Law  (1986),  170 

Minerals  Commission,  230 

mines,  169,  172;  gold,  xxxi,  68,  168 

mining,  xxxiii,  51,  168-74;  decline  in, 
168,  169;  of  diamonds,  173;  foreign 
investment  in,  137,  168,  169;  of  gold, 
xxxi,  68,  169;  legislation,  168;  rejuve- 
nation of,  170 

Ministry  of  Defence,  286 

Ministry  of  Education,  124 

Ministry  of  Employment  and  Social  Wel- 
fare, 298 

Ministry  of  Food  and  Agriculture,  167 
Ministry  of  Health,  110,  112,  113,  115 
Ministry  of  Labour  and  Social  Welfare, 
116,  125 

Ministry  of  Mobilization  and  Social  Wel- 
fare, 116 

missionaries:  arrival  of,  104;  expelled, 

300;  geographic  distribution  of,  67; 

hospitals  of,  110;  influence  of,  82,  94; 

schools  of,  67 
missions,  Christian:  health  care  by,  112; 

schools  of,  22,  67,  104,  117 
modernization,  61,  90,  94;  and  women, 

101 


369 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Mole-Dagbane  language,  79,  81,  82 
Mole-Dagbane  people,  87-88;  culture  of, 

88;  ethnic  groups  of,  87;  influences 

on,  xxix-xxx;  political  structure  of,  87; 

religion  of,  87-88 
monetary  policy,  150-51 
money  supply  {see  also  currency),  150- 

51,  155 
Mormon  missionaries,  300 
Mossi-Grunshi.  See  Mole-Dagbane 
Movement  for  Freedom  and  Justice,  300; 

formed,  209;  platform  of,  209 
Mozambique:  financial  aid  to,  244; 

peacekeeping  missions  in,  xxxviii 
Muhammad  (the  Prophet),  105 
Museveni,  Yoweri,  245 
Muslim  clerics:  health  care  by,  110 
Muslim  Representative  Council,  106-7 
Muslims  {see  also  Islam):  hospitals  of, 

110;  influence  of,  xxix-xxx,  7,  82,  93; 

schools  for,  107 
Muslim  traders,  6;  role  of,  6-7;  slave 

trade  by,  11-12 
mutual  assistance  groups,  116 

NAL.  See  National  Alliance  of  Liberals 
NAM.  See  Non-Aligned  Movement 
Namibia:  financial  aid  to,  244;  state  visit 
to,  245 

Nanumba  people,  79-80,  87 
National  Advisory  Council  on  AIDS,  115 
National  Alliance  of  Liberals  (NAL) ,  37- 
38 

National  Catholic  Secretariat,  105 
National  Civil  Defence  Force.  See  Com- 
mittees for  the  Defence  of  the  Revolu- 
tion 

National  Commission  for  Democracy 
(NCD),  53-54,  197;  mandate  of,  54; 
report  on  democracy,  210 

National  Commission  on  Civic  Educa- 
tion, 230 

National  Communications  Commission, 
184 

National  Congress  of  British  West  Africa, 
24-25 

National  Consultative  Assembly,  210 
National  Council  for  Higher  Education, 
230 

National  Council  on  Women  and  Devel- 
opment (NCWD),  62,  101,  102,  125 


National  Convention  Party,  xxxviii;  in 
Progressive  Alliance,  215,  230 

National  Defence  Committees  (NDCs), 
50 

National  Democratic  Congress  (NDC), 
228;  in  election  of  1992,  xxxiv,  212, 
215,  216;  in  Progressive  Alliance,  230 

National  Electoral  Commission,  228, 
230,  235 

National  House  of  Chiefs,  203,  204,  205- 
6,  214,  220;  and  return  to  democracy, 
204,  230;  role  of,  219 

national  identification  cards,  228,  234- 
35 

National  Independence  Party  (NIP),  212 

nationalism,  24-26,  260,  267 

nationalization,  43,  147 

National  Liberation  Council  (NLC) ,  36, 
298;  members  of,  37 

National  Liberation  Council  govern- 
ment (1966-69),  270-71;  prison  sys- 
tem under,  296 

National  Liberation  Movement  (NLM) , 
29;  platform  of,  29 

National  Liberation  Movement  for  West- 
ern Togoland,  238,  258 

National  Media  Commission,  224,  230 

National  Mobilisation  Program,  199 

National  Nuclear  Research  Institute,  179 

National  Patriotic  Front  of  Liberia,  259 

National  Public  Tribunal,  51,  221,  295, 
296,  299;  creation  of,  xxxiv 

National  Redemption  Council  (NRC) 
(1972-79)  {see  also  Supreme  Military 
Council),  42,  147,  271-72;  corruption 
in,  272;  human  rights  under,  298-99; 
members  of,  271;  platform  of,  43; 
reorganized,  44 

national  security,  202,  238 

national  security  agencies,  290-93;  sur- 
veillance by,  200 

National  Security  Council:  under  consti- 
tution of  1992,  217 

National  Union  of  Ghanaian  Students 
(NUGS),  123,  203;  members  of,  205; 
opposition  of,  to  Rawlings,  49;  and 
return  to  democracy,  204;  support  of, 
for  Rawlings,  205 

national  unity,  193;  problem  of  forging, 
36-37 

National  Youth  Organising  Commis- 
sion, 199,  200 


370 


Index 


Native  Administration  Ordinance 

(1927),  20 
Native  Authorities  Ordinance  (1935),  20 
Native  Treasuries  Ordinance  (1939),  20 
natural  resources:  exports  of,  21-22 
navy:  Africanization  of,  278;  creation  of, 
268;  fleet  of,  278,  286;  insignia,  282; 
joint  exercises,  281;  materiel,  278;  mil- 
itary advisers  to,  278;  mission  of,  278; 
number  of  personnel  in,  257,  278; 
organization  of,  278;  ranks,  282;  train- 
ing, 281,  283;  uniforms,  282 
NCD.  See  National  Commission  for 

Democracy 
NCWD.  See  National  Council  on  Women 

and  Development 
NDC.  See  National  Democratic  Congress 
NDCs.  See  National  Defence  Committees 
Ndebugre,  John,  50 
Neo-Colonialism  (Nkrumah),  33 
Netherlands  (see  also  under  Dutch) :  slave 
trade  by,  xxx,  9,  12;  trade  by,  xxx,  9-11 
New  Democratic  Movement,  261 
New  Patriotic  Party  (NPP),  xxxv-xxxvi; 
in  election  of  1992,  212,  233;  litigious 
strategies  of,  231-32;  opposition  strat- 
egies of,  228-29;  platform  of,  233-34; 
relations  of,  with  government,  229, 
234 

Newspaper  Licensing  Law  (1983),  223 
newspapers  (see  also  journalists;  media), 
xxxv,  222-23;  banned,  44;  political  agi- 
tation by,  25,  28 
New  Year  School,  125 
Niger-Congo  language  group,  61 
Nigeria,  199;  coup  d'etat  in,  242;  educa- 
tion budget  in,  123;  expulsion  of 
Ghanians  from,  242;  health  care  pro- 
fessionals in,  113;  intelligence  officers 
in,  288;  military  training  by,  281;  rela- 
tions with,  237,  242-43;  trade  with, 
143 

Ningo  people,  88 

NIP.  See  National  Independence  Party 
Nkonya  people,  81 

Nkrumah,  Kwame,  131,  234,  236,  238; 
attempt  to  assassinate,  35,  269,  292; 
background  of,  27;  charisma  of,  27- 
28;  in  Convention  People's  Party,  xxxi, 
27;  in  elections  of  1951,  28;  in  elec- 
tions of  1960,  33;  goals  of,  xxxi,  32-34, 
95;  jailed,  28;  as  leader  of  government 


business,  28-29;  and  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  xxxi,  236;  opposition  to, 
34-36,  37,  261;  overthrown,  xxxii,  4, 
36,  135,  257;  and  Pan-Africanism, 
xxxi,  33-34,  236,  243,  257;  as  presi- 
dent, xxxi,  3,  33,  34,  194;  as  prime 
minister,  xxxi,  3,  29,  30,  194;  private 
army  of,  269;  writings  of,  33 

Nkrumah  government.  See  First  Republic 

Nkrumah  Mausoleum,  252 

NLC.  See  National  Liberation  Council 

NLM.  See  National  Liberation  Movement 

Noi  (a  merchant),  12 

Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  244, 
252;  founded,  xxxi 

nonalignment,  194,  236,  244,  252 

north,  the:  Muslim  influence  on,  7,  82, 
104;  political  affiliations  in,  38;  reli- 
gion in,  104,  105;  social  status  in,  267 

Northern  People's  Party,  29 

Northern  Region,  224;  electricity  in,  178; 
ethnic  conflict  in,  234;  population 
density  in,  74 

Northern  Territories,  xxxii,  17,  28,  29, 
86 

Northern  Territories  Constabulary,  290 

Northern  Territories  Protectorate,  266 

North  Korea.  See  Korea,  Democratic  Peo- 
ple's Republic  of 

north-south  dichotomy,  267;  under  Brit- 
ish, 266 

NPP.  S<?<?New  Patriotic  Party 

NRC.  See  National  Redemption  Council 

Nsawam,  67 

NUGS.  See  National  Union  of  Ghanaian 
Students 

Nunoo-Mensah,  Joseph:  in  Provisional 

National  Defence  Council,  48 
nutrition,  62,  74;  education  in,  62,  78-79 
Nyerere,  Julius,  245 
Nzema  language,  82 

Nzema  people,  81;  conflict  of,  with  other 
ethnic  groups,  260 

OAU.  See  Organization  of  African  Unity 
Obeng,  P.V.,  50 
Obuasi,  68;  gold  mine  at,  169 
Ocran,  A.K,  38 

Office  of  the  Head  of  Civil  Service,  222 
Officer  Cadet  School,  Eaton  Hall  (Brit- 
ain), 283 


371 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


Ofin  River,  68 

Ofin  River  Valley:  gold  in,  6 

oil  {see  also  petroleum) :  exploration  for, 

67;  price  increases,  44 
Okumpreko  mining  company,  172 
Omari,  Peter,  32 
Operation  Feed  Yourself,  44 
Oppong,  Christine,  99 
Order  of  the  Star  of  Ghana,  245 
Ordinary  Level  education,  120 
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU), 

243-44,  302;  election  monitors  from, 

215,  246;  financial  assistance  to,  244; 

liberation  funds,  244;  membership  in, 

236 

Organization  of  African  Unity  Charter, 
236,  243 

Organization  of  African  Unity  Libera- 
tion Committee,  244 
Osudoku  people,  88 
Oti  River,  71 
Otu,  M.A.,  270 


Padmore,  George,  27 

Palestine  Liberation  Organization,  251 

palm  trees  and  products,  132,  159,  162; 
cultivation,  64,  158;  exports  of,  146, 
147;  oil,  13, 134,  147 

PAMSCAD.  See  Program  of  Action  to  Mit- 
igate the  Social  Costs  of  Adjustment 

PANAFEST.  See  Pan-African  Historical 
and  Theatre  Festival 

Pan-African  Congress,  27 

Pan-African  Historical  and  Theatre  Festi- 
val (PANAFEST),  xxxviii-xxxix 

Pan-Africanism,  xxxi,  33-34,  194,  236, 
243,  244,  257,  267;  armed  forces  and, 
268;  under  Nkrumah,  xxxi,  33-34, 
236,  243,  257;  strategy  for,  34 

parliament,  231;  under  constitution  of 
1992,  217;  dissolved,  274;  elections  for, 
195,  197,  210,  214,  215-16,  217;  legis- 
lation by,  217;  members  of,  217;  terms 
in,  217;  women  elected  to,  215-16 

patron-client  relationship,  202 

PDCs.  See  People's  Defence  Committees 

Peace  Corps,  246 

Peki  people,  85 

Pentecostals:  percentage  of,  in  popula- 
tion, 102,  103,  108 
People's  Convention  Party,  234 


People's  Daily  Graphic,  222 
People's  Defence  Committees  (PDCs), 
xxxiii,  50, 199;  creation  of,  xxxiv;  func- 
tions of,  224;  opposition  to,  50,  203 
People's  Education  Association,  125 
People's  Heritage  Party  (PHP),  212 
People's  Militia,  278;  training  of,  281 
People's  National  Convention  (PNC), 

234;  in  election  of  1992,  212 
People's  National  Party  (PNP),  48,  196- 
97,  273;  members  of,  196-97;  opposi- 
tion of,  to  Rawlings,  49 
pepper:  trade  in,  9,  133 
petroleum  {see  also  oil),  174-75;  explora- 
tion, 174-75;  imports  of,  137;  produc- 
tion, 174;  refining  of,  174;  reserves, 
174 

PFP.  See  Popular  Front  Party 
PHP  See  People's  Heritage  Party 
Pine,  Richard,  264 

Pioneer,  The,  222 

Pioneer  Tobacco  Company,  162 
Planned  Parenthood  Association  of 

Ghana,  78 
PNC.  See  People's  National  Convention 
PNDC.  See  Provisional  National  Defence 

Council 

PNP.  See  People's  National  Party 

police,  colonial,  94,  290 

police,  national,  xxxvi,  290,  292;  educa- 
tional requirements  for,  293;  human 
rights  abuses  by,  xxxvi;  number  of  per- 
sonnel in,  292;  organization  of,  292;  in 
peacekeeping  operations,  293;  politi- 
cal organs  of,  199;  recruitment  for, 
293;  reputation  of,  293;  training  for, 
293 

Police  Council,  292 

political  activity:  of  newspapers,  25;  of 
religious  groups,  105 

political  demonstrations:  against  auster- 
ity budget,  34-35,  40-41,  232;  by  stu- 
dents, 44,  232;  against  taxes,  xxxvii- 
xxxviii,  208;  against  union  govern- 
ment, 45,  272;  by  veterans,  268 

political  detention,  32-33,  299;  under 
Armed  Forces  Revolutionary  Council, 
201,  208-9,  274,  299;  of  journalists,  44; 
of  politicians,  49 

political  dissidents,  238,  240,  258,  301 

political  opposition,  xxxiv-xxxvi,  228, 
234,  298,  301;  under  British,  261,  267; 


372 


Index 


election  boycott  by,  228;  intimidation 
of,  xxxi,  xxxii,  4,  44;  under  Nkrumah, 
261;  platform  of,  216;  precolonial, 
261;  protests  by,  xxxviii,  228;  relations 
of,  with  government,  229;  strategies 
of,  228-29 

political  oppression:  under  Nkrumah,  4; 
under  Rawlings,  194,  201 

political  parties  {see  also  under  individual 
parties):  allowed,  37-38,  46,  211;  aver- 
sion toward,  202;  under  constitution 
of  1992,  219;  of  ethnic  groups,  81, 
219;  formation  of,  37-38;  outlawed, 
xxxii,  33,  36,  81,  201-2,  274,  299;  reg- 
istration of,  215;  restrictions  on,  32, 
219 

political  traditions,  202 

political  unrest:  in  Accra,  26;  under  Pro- 
visional National  Defence  Council, 
208,  214 

polygamy,  79,91,99,  100 

Popular  Front  Party  (PFP),  48;  opposi- 
tion of,  to  Rawlings,  49 

population,  73-79;  in  agriculture,  158; 
density,  69,  74;  distribution  of,  74-75; 
projected,  73,  74;  rural,  77;  in  urban 
areas,  75-76,  96 

"Population  Planning  for  National 
Progress  and  Prosperity"  (1969),  78 

population  statistics:  birth  rate,  73;  death 
rate,  73;  fertility  rate,  73-74,  101;  gen- 
der ratio,  74;  growth  rate,  62,  73; 
infant  mortality  rate,  73,  78,  112;  life 
expectancy,  73, 112 

ports,  181-83 

Portugal:  explorers  from,  9,  104 
Portuguese  traders,  xxx,  9,  133,  169; 

departure  of,  9-11;  slave  trade  by,  8-9, 

169 

postal  service:  under  British  rule,  21,  147 
PP.  See  Progress  Party 
Pra  River,  67,  70 

Precious  Minerals  Marketing  Corpora- 
tion, 168,  173 
Prempeh:  exiled,  16,  17,  85,  266 
Presbyterian  Church,  104,  117 
president  {see  also  executive  branch): 

under  constitution  of  1992,  217 
Presidential  Detail  Department,  269 
Presidential  Guard,  278;  training  of,  281 
Presidential  Guard  Department,  269 
President's  Own  Guard  Regiment,  281 


press  {see  also  journalists;  media;  newspa- 
pers), 507;  censorship  of,  49;  under 
Rawlings,  224 

Prestea  Goldfields,  148 

Preventive  Detention  Act  (1958,  1959, 
1962),  4,  32-33,  298;  justification  of, 
34;  opponents  jailed  under,  35,  37 

prices:  of  cocoa,  135,  139,  141,  161;  con- 
sumer, 157,  189;  control  of,  133;  of 
food,  140;  of  gold,  133;  of  oil,  144; 
producer,  141 

priests,  107-8;  health  care  by,  108,  109 

prime  minister,  29 

prisons,  296-98;  Africanization  of,  296; 
under  British  rule,  22,  294,  296;  condi- 
tions in,  297;  improvements  in,  22;  for 
juveniles,  298;  locations  of,  298;  num- 
ber of,  298;  operation  of,  297;  person- 
nel in,  297-98;  problems  in,  296-97 

Prisons  Ordinance  of  1860,  296,  297 

Prisons  Service  Board,  297 

privatization,  52-53,  131,  144,  145;  in 
agriculture,  161;  in  industry,  177 

Program  of  Action  to  Mitigate  the  Social 
Costs  of  Adjustment  (PAMSCAD),  146 

Progressive  Alliance,  xxxviii,  215,  231; 
members  of,  215,  230 

Progress  Party  (PP) ,  37-38;  in  elections 
of  1961,  38;  platform  of,  39-40;  sup- 
port for,  38 

Protestantism  {see  also  under  individual 
denominations) :  percentage  of  follow- 
ers in  population,  102,  103 

Provisional  National  Defence  Council 
(PNDC)  (1982-92),  xxxiii,  4,  62,  105, 
136, 193, 194-200,  274-76;  attempts  to 
overthrow,  238;  austerity  program,  51- 
52,  137;  constitutional  protection  of, 
219;  decentralization  plan  of,  224; 
established!,  274;  goals  of,  50;  human 
rights  abuses  under,  214;  media 
under,  223;  members  of,  48,  197;  and 
nonalignment,  236;  opposition  to,  4, 
49,  105,  207,  208;  and  Pan-Africanism, 
236;  platform  of,  50;  political  scene 
under,  196-99;  principles  of,  193-94, 
195;  privatization  under,  148;  Rawlings 
as  leader  of,  195;  support  for,  53;  and 
urban  areas,  214 

Provisional  National  Defence  Council 
(Establishment)  Proclamation  (Sup- 
plementary and  Consequential  Provi- 


373 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


sions)  Law  (1983),  299 
Pru  River,  67,  71 
Prussia:  trade  by,  1 1 
Psychic  and  Healers'  Association,  113 
Public  Order  Decree  1972,  232 
Public  Services  Commission,  222 
Public  Tribunals  Law  of  1984,  221 
public  tribunals,  xxxiii,  50,  51,  221,  230- 

31,  295-96,  299 


Qadhafi,  Muammar  al,  245 
Quaison-Sackey,  Alex,  36 
Quakers,  12,  105 

Quarshigah,  Courage,  209,  276,  300 
Queen's  Messengers,  290 

radio,  184;  broadcast  languages  of,  82, 

184;  private,  507 
Radio  Eye,  507 

railroads,  147,  181;  construction  of,  xxxi, 
21 

Rattray,  Robert  S.,  93,  116 

Rawlings,  Jerry  John,  xxxiii,  125,  131;  as 
Armed  Forces  Revolutionary  Council 
leader,  195,  273;  coup  by,  48,  136; 
coup  attempt  by,  46,  193,  273;  in  ECO- 
WAS, xxxviii,  237,  239,  243;  in  elec- 
tions of  1992,  212,  214,  216; 
international  security  under,  258; 
jailed,  46;  opposition  to,  4,  49,  53,  201, 
261;  as  president,  227;  speeches  of, 
196,  229,  230;  state  visits  by,  xxxix, 
244,  245,  249;  support  for,  204,  205, 
214,  216 

Rawlings  government,  first.  See  Armed 
Forces  Revolutionary  Council 

Rawlings  government,  second.  See  Provi- 
sional National  Defence  Council 

Rawlings  government,  third.  See  Fourth 
Republic 

RDCs.  See  Regional  Defence  Committees 
Reconciliation  Committee,  220 
refugees,  75,  199,  259 
regional  assemblies,  32 
Regional  Consultative  Council,  227 
Regional  Coordinating  Council,  225, 
227 

Regional  Defence  Committees  (RDCs), 
50 

regional  tribunals,  230-31 


regions.  See  geographic  regions 

Registered  Nurses  Association,  99 

religion  {see  also  under  individual  sects), 
102-9;  distribution  of,  81,  86,  104;  tra- 
ditional, 102,  103,  107-8 

Religious  Bodies  (Registration)  Law 
(1989),  108-9 

religious  organizations,  300 

religious  tolerance,  103 

revolution  of  1979, 193,  201 

revolution  of  1981,  193,  195,  224 

Reynolds  Aluminum,  176 

rice,  68 

roads,  147,  181;  construction  of,  xxxi, 
xxxii,  34;  maintenance  of,  181 

Rodney,  Walter,  13,  134 

Roman  Catholic  Church.  See  Catholi- 
cism, Roman 

Romania:  relations  with,  249 

Royal  Air  Force  (Britain),  281 

Royal  Canadian  Air  Force,  281 

Royal  Military  Academy  at  Sandhurst, 
279,  283 

Royal  Navy  (Britain),  278,  283 

Royal  West  African  Frontier  Force 
(RWAFF),257,  266,  267 

rubber,  162 

rural  areas:  banks  in,  77,  152;  develop- 
ment in,  42;  electricity  in,  62,  77,  117; 
families  in,  77;  health  care  in,  114; 
infrastructure  of,  146;  political  partici- 
pation in,  200;  population  in,  77; 
urban  influence  on,  95;  women  in, 
100 

Rural  Manifesto  (1984),  77,  117 

rural-urban  disparities,  75-77 

Russia  {see  also  Soviet  Union) :  relations 

with,  251,  288 
RWAFF.  See  Royal  West  African  Frontier 

Force 

Rwanda:  peacekeeping  missions  in,  xxx- 
viii, 237,  252,  257,  260 

Safwi  people,  81 
salaries.  See  income;  wages 
salt,  64 
Saltpond,  64 
sanitation,  112,  113,  146 
Sankara,  Thomas,  240,  241 
Sarbah,  J.M.,  25 

Saudi  Arabian  Fund  for  Development, 


374 


Index 


251 

savannah,  69;  coastal,  xxix,  63,  95 
schools,  xxxii,  74;  under  British  rule,  22; 
enrollment  in,  90,  101,  117,  120,  121; 
improvements  in,  22;  Islamic,  107;  lan- 
guage of  instruction  in,  82;  mission, 
22,  67,  104,  117;  postsecondary,  67; 
primary,  120;  private,  118;  regulation 
of,  118;  secondary,  118,  120,  121; 
socialization  by,  98,  117;  technical,  120 
Second  Republic  (1969-71)  (Busia  gov- 
ernment), 37-42,  271;  austerity  pro- 
gram of,  40,  43,  137,  271;  corruption 
in,  202;  debts  of,  40;  deportations  by, 
39;  expectations  of,  39;  human  rights 
under,  298;  inflation  under,  40;  mem- 
bers of,  38 
Securities  Discount  House,  152 
segmentary  societies.  See  society,  segmen- 
tary 

Sekondi-Tarkwa  railroad,  21 
Sekondi-Takoradi,  224;  airport  at,  183 
Sene  River,  71 

Serious  Fraud  Office,  150,  231 
Serious  Fraud  Office  Bill  (1993),  150, 
231 

service  sector:  as  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  139;  taxes  on,  149 

Seven  Roles  of  Women  (Oppong  and  Abu) , 
99 

Shai  people,  88 
shipping,  181-83 

shortages,  26,  45;  of  food,  159;  of  fuel, 

167;  of  housing,  62,  74,  116-17 
Sisala  people:  government  structure  of, 

xxix,  7;  Muslim  influence  on,  xxix- 

xxx,  7 

slavery:  abolition  of,  12,  94;  acceptance 
of,  11 

slaves:  demand  for,  9;  export  of,  9,  12- 
13;  supply  of,  12,  263;  treatment  of, 
11,12 

slave  trade,  xxx,  133;  by  Africans,  8-9, 
11-12,  133,  263;  by  British,  xxx,  9; 
from  the  Congo  region,  8-9;  by  Danes 
xxx,  9;  demographic  impact  of,  12;  by 
Dutch,  xxx,  9;  end  of,  12,  94,  134; 
importance  of,  11,  133-34;  by  Mus- 
lims, 11-12;  by  Portuguese,  xxx,  8-9, 
169;  suppression  of,  13,  263;  by 
Swedes,  xxx,  9;  volume  of,  12,  133 

smuggling,  141,  154,  155,  238;  of  cocoa, 


xxxii,  40,  135;  of  crops,  xxxii,  40,  44, 

135;  of  diamonds,  173 
social  change,  93-95 
social  development,  21-24 
social  relations,  90-93 
social  services,  22,  139 
socialism,  xxxii,  33 

Social  Security  and  National  Insurance 
Trust,  152,  162,  175 

social  welfare,  115-17;  and  extended 
families,  115-16;  government  spend- 
ing on,  149 

society,  segmentary,  3,  7;  Muslim  influ- 
ence on,  7 

Society  of  Friends.  See  Quakers 

Somalia:  United  Nations  operations  in, 
260 

Sonangol  oil  company,  174 

Songhai  empire,  106 

Soninke  kingdom  of  Ghana,  5;  military 

achievements  of,  5 
Sontrokofi  people,  81 
sorghum,  6 

Soussoudis,  Michael,  247 
south,  the:  under  British  rule,  95;  ethnic 
groups  in,  xxix,  81;  political  affilia- 
tions in,  38;  religion  in,  104;  social  sta- 
tus in,  81,  267 
South  Africa:  relations  with,  245 
Southern  Cross  Mining  Company,  172 
South  West  Africa  People's  Organisation, 
244 

Soviet  Union  (see  also  Russia):  education 
in,  249-50;  materiel  from,  269,  286; 
military  advisers  from,  269,  287;  mili- 
tary assistance  from,  283,  286-88;  mili- 
tary training  in,  287 

Special  African  Service  (Technical 
Unit),  270 

Special  Intelligence  Unit,  269 

Special  Military  Tribunal,  296 

Standard,  The,  105,  222 

Standard  Chartered  Bank  of  Ghana,  152 

State  Committee  for  Economic  Coopera- 
tion, 249 

state  enterprises,  xxxii,  146-48;  effi- 
ciency of,  148;  job  cuts  in,  157;  num- 
ber of,  148;  origins  of,  146-47; 
privatized,  131,  147-48;  subsidized, 
147 

State  Enterprises  Commission,  148 
State  Gold  Mining  Corporation,  169,  172 


375 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


State-Owned  Enterprise  Reform  Pro- 
gram, 148 
stock  exchange,  153 

strikes:  of  1961,  35;  of  1978,  272;  of  1992, 
158 

structural  adjustment  program,  xxxiii- 
xxxiv,  xxxvi,  131,  136;  effects  of, 
xxxiii-xxxiv,  131-32,  214 
student  associations,  98,  200 
student  demonstrations,  44,  123,  232 
students:  fees  for,  xxxiii,  39,  118,  122, 
123-24,  155;  opposition  of,  to  Provi- 
sional National  Defence  Council,  53, 
203 

subsidies:  for  agriculture,  160;  for  educa- 
tion, 122;  for  food,  43;  for  imports,  43; 
for  state  enterprises,  147-48 

suffrage.  See  voting 

sugar,  162 

Sunday  Mirror,  222 

Sunyani,  224 

Superior  Court  of  Judicature,  217 

Supreme  Court  of  Ghana,  217,  220,  295; 
decisions  of,  231-32 

Supreme  Military  Council  (1972-79), 
xxxii,  272;  established,  43,  44;  infla- 
tion under,  45;  members  of,  43;  oppo- 
sition to,  44,  45;  overthrown,  46; 
platform  of,  43 

Sweden:  materiel  from,  277;  slave  trade 
by,  xxx,  9,  12;  trade  by,  xxx,  9,  11 

Switzerland:  materiel  from,  277 


Tafi  people,  81 

Takoradi:  harbor  at,  xxxi,  22,  63,  182; 
rainfall  in,  73;  thermal  power  plant  at, 
251 

Talensi  people,  87;  criminal  justice  sys- 
tem of,  293-94;  government  structure 
of,  xxix,  7;  Muslim  influence  on,  xxix- 
xxx,  7 

Tamale,  77,  224;  airport  at,  183,  278; 

rainfall  in,  73 
Tano  River,  67,  68,  70;  navigation  on,  70, 

71,  182-83 
Tanzania:  intelligence  officers  in,  288; 

state  visit  to,  244 
Tarkwa  goldfield,  67 
taxes,  141,  157;  under  British  rule,  117; 

collection  of,  149-50;  demonstrations 

against,  208,  xxxvii-xxxviii;  under 


Economic  Recovery  Program,  144, 
145;  on  economic  sectors,  149;  evasion 
of,  149-50;  on  fuel,  150;  on  imports, 
149;  on  individuals,  149;  and  invest- 
ment, 186;  as  a  percentage  of  gross 
domestic  product,  136;  sales,  xxxviii; 
revenue  from,  132,  136;  value-added, 
xxxvi i,  xxxviii 
Taylor,  Charles,  242 

teachers:  Nkrumah's  appeal  for,  28; 
number  of,  120;  training  of,  22,  120; 
women  as,  101-2 

Teberebie  mine,  172 

Technical  Unit  (Special  African  Ser- 
vice), 270 

telecommunications,  180,  183-84;  under 
British  rule,  21,  147;  deterioration  of, 
180;  improvements  in,  61,  183 

telephones,  183;  rehabilitation  of,  250; 
service,  183-84 

television,  184;  broadcast  languages  of, 
82;  rehabilitation  of,  250 

Tema-Akosombo  oil  pipeline,  174-75 

Tema  harbor,  63,  181,  182 

Tema  Lube  Oil  Company,  175 

Teshi  Military  Academy,  286 

Tettegah,  John:  opposition  of,  to  Nkru- 
mah,  35 

Third  Republic  (1979-81),  47-48,  202; 
established,  47;  overthrown,  48 

31st  December  1981  Revolution.  See  rev- 
olution of  1981 

31st  December  Women's  Movement,  56, 
199,  216 

timber  (see  also  forests;  forestry):  export 
of,  xxix,  xxxiii,  xxxvii,  21,  51,  132,  138, 
141,  165,  166;  production,  xxix,  xxxiii, 
134,  158,  159;  trade  in,  13 

Timber  Export  Development  Board,  165 

tobacco,  162 

Togo:  border  with,  62;  dissidents  from, 
258;  dissidents  in,  238,  258;  electricity 
exported  to,  178,  238;  Ewe  people  in, 
85;  Ghanaians  expelled  from,  239, 
259;  health  care  professionals  in,  113; 
refugees  from,  75,  239,  259;  relations 
with,  xxxviii,  237-40,  258-59;  smug- 
gling into,  44 

Togoland:  division  of,  238;  plebiscite  for 
union,  30,  238 

Togoland  Liberation  Movement,  238 

Tori  people,  85 


376 


Index 


tourism,  179-80,  250;  investment  in,  186 
Town  and  Village  Development  Commit- 
tees, 56 
town  councils,  227 

trade  {see  also  balance  of  trade;  exports; 
imports),  140-44;  black  market  as  per- 
centage of,  141;  deficit,  xxxii,  xxxvii, 
137;  diversification  of,  138-39;  under 
Economic  Recovery  Program,  140- 
41;  European  merchants  in,  xxx,  3,  8; 
by  Ewe,  86;  gold,  xxx,  5,  9,  133;  ivory, 
9;  Muslims  in,  6-7;  in  slaves,  xxx,  8-9, 
11-12, 13,  94, 133-34,  169,  263;  spices, 
9 

Trade  Union  Congress  (TUC),  xxxvii, 
48,  98,  158,  203;  functions  of,  98; 
membership  of,  204;  opposition  of,  to 
Nkrumah,  35;  opposition  of,  to  Rawl- 
ings,  49;  protests  by,  40-41;  relations 
of,  with  government,  204;  support  of, 
for  Rawlings,  204 

trade  unions,  157,  200;  civil  service,  222; 
under  Fourth  Republic,  204 

traditional  councils,  224,  230 

Traditional  Healers'  Association,  110 

Training  School,  286 

transportation,  180-83;  under  British 
rule,  xxix,  21,  22,  147;  cost  of,  181; 
deterioration  of,  180;  economic  prob- 
lems of,  44;  infrastructure,  165,  180; 
public,  147;  railroads,  21,  147;  repair 
of,  180;  roads,  147;  vehicles,  180; 
water,  182-83 

Treaty  of  Fomena,  265-66 

tribunals  {see  also  courts),  xxxiii,  50,  51, 
220,  221,  230,  295-96;  military,  296; 
national  public,  xxxiv,  51,  221,  295, 
296,  299;  public,  230-31,  299; 
regional,  230-31 

Tsikata,  Kojo,  50,  201,  274 

TUC.  See  Trade  Union  Congress 

Tutu,  Osei,  7-8,  262 

Twifu  kingdom:  gold  in,  6 

Twi  language,  7 

Uganda:  state  visit  to,  244 
UGCC.  See  United  Gold  Coast  Conven- 
tion 

unemployment,  53,  157;  attempts  to  alle- 
viate, 39;  under  British  rule,  26,  27; 
under  Fourth  Republic,  xxxiii,  xxxvi- 


xxxvii,  52 

UNESCO.  See  United  Nations  Educa- 
tional, Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organi- 
zation 

Union  of  African  States,  243 

unit  committees,  227 

United  Gold  Coast  Convention  (UGCC), 
xxxi,  26-27,  33,  268;  founded,  xxxi, 
26;  Nkrumah  in,  xxxi,  27;  platform  of, 
26-27 

United  Nations:  Children's  Fund,  assis- 
tance from,  111;  Conference  on  Trade 
and  Development,  252;  Educational, 
Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization 
(UNESCO),  101;  membership  in,  251; 
peacekeeping  missions,  xxxviii,  xxxix, 
237,  252,  257,  260,  293,  302;  Security 
Council,  252 

United  Party  (UP),  33 

United  States:  aid  from,  78,  176,  187, 
235,  247;  covert  activities  of,  247; 
imports  of  slaves  by,  12-13;  influences 
of,  217;  military  exercises  with,  281; 
military  training  by,  289;  Rawlings's 
visit  to,  xxxix;  relations  with,  246-48, 
276;  trade  with,  143;  treaties  with, 
246-47;  in  World  War  II,  268 

United  States  of  Africa,  34,  243 

Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 
and  Fundamental  Freedoms,  205 

universities:  closed,  44;  enrollment  in, 
121;  fees  for,  39,  123-24,  155;  govern- 
ment funding  for,  42;  proposed  new, 
123;  women  in,  101 

University  College  of  the  Gold  Coast, 
xxxi,  22,  123 

University  of  Cape  Coast,  124 

University  of  Development  Studies,  123, 
250 

University  of  Ghana,  123;  adult  educa- 
tion in,  125;  demographic  unit  of,  78 

University  of  Science  and  Technology, 
123 

UP.  See  United  Party 

Upper  East  Region,  224;  electricity  in, 
178;  population  density  in,  75 

Upper  Volta.  See  Burkina  Faso 

Upper  West  Region,  224;  administrative 
districts  in,  227;  urbanization  in,  76 

urban  areas:  children  in,  98;  definition 
of,  75;  ethnic  groups  in,  81;  families 
in,  77,  98;  housing  shortages  in,  62, 


377 


Ghana:  A  Country  Study 


74,  116-17;  influence  of,  on  rural 
areas,  95;  infrastructure  of,  146;  lin- 
eage in,  98;  population  in,  75-76,  96; 
Provisional  National  Defence  Council 
and,  214;  women  in,  102 

urban  councils,  227 

urbanization,  42,  61,  76,  94,  95 

urban  migration,  81,  95,  96 

urban  society,  96-99 

Valco.  SeeVoltz.  Aluminum  Company 
Verandah  Boys,  27 
veterans,  24,  26 

Volta  Aluminum  Company  (Valco), 
xxxii,  175 

Volta  Basin,  6,  63,  69,  75 

Volta  Delta,  63,  64;  agriculture  in,  64 

Voltaic  languages,  87 

Volta  Region,  xxx,  224;  agriculture  in, 
160;  political  affiliations  in,  38;  reli- 
gious groups  in,  104 

Volta  River,  61,  67,  68,  70;  navigation  on, 
71, 182-83 

Volta  River  Authority,  178 

Volta  River  Project,  176 

Volunteer  Corps,  267 

voters:  number  of,  211,  215;  register  of, 
xxxiv,  xxxv,  211,  216,  228,  234-35 

voting:  under  constitution  of  1992,  219; 
rights,  219 

Wa,  224 

wages  (see  also  income),  137,  155,  157- 

58;  minimum,  xxxvii,  136,  139,  158 
Wala  people,  87 
Ware  I,  Opoku,  8 

water:  under  British  rule,  22,  147; 
improvements  in,  22;  safe,  112; 
sources  of,  72;  supply,  146 
WDCs.  See  Workers'  Defence  Committees 
W.E.B.  DuBois  Memorial  Center  for  Pan- 
African  Culture,  244 
Weekly  Spectator,  222-23 
West  African  Frontier  Force,  266 
West  African  Students'  Union,  27 
Western  Region,  224;  agriculture  in,  160; 

infrastructure  in,  166;  mining  in,  172 
Western  Sahara:  peacekeeping  missions 

in,  xxxviii,  257 
White  Volta  River,  71 


WHO.  See  World  Health  Organization 
Wilks,  Ivor,  8 

Winneba,  64;  water  for,  72 

Wolseley,  Sir  Garnet,  15,  265 

women:  AIDS  in,  115;  Akan,  100;  in 
armed  forces,  279;  and  child-bearing, 
78,  99,  101;  education  of,  61-62,  101, 
118,  121,  126;  Ewe,  86;  family  educa- 
tion for,  78-79;  influence  of,  102; 
inheritance  by,  100,  101;  literacy  of, 
125;  marriage  of,  99;  and  moderniza- 
tion, 101;  Nkrumah's  appeal  for,  28; 
nutritional  programs  for,  62,  78;  occu- 
pations of,  100,  101-2,  297;  in  politics, 
215-16,  235;  position  of,  99-102;  pris- 
ons for,  298;  rights  of,  219;  roles  of,  99; 
rural,  100;  urban,  102 

women's  associations,  62,  200 

workers:  Nkrumah's  appeal  for,  27-28; 
number  of,  156;  opposition  of,  to  Pro- 
visional National  Defence  Council, 
203;  protests  by,  34-35;  under  Third 
Republic,  48 

Workers'  Compensation  Act  (1986),  116 

Workers'  Defence  Committees  (WDCs), 
xxxiii,  50,  199;  opposition  to,  50,  203 

work  force,  155-58;  under  austerity  pro- 
gram, 40;  Nkrumah's  goals  for,  34 

World  Bank,  137;  aid  from,  52,  131,  146, 
176,  187;  loan  from,  136,  145,  165-66, 
170,  181;  structural  adjustment  pro- 
gram, xxxiii,  131,  236,  276,  301-2 

World  Council  of  Churches,  105,  205 

World  Health  Organization  (WHO): 
assistance  from,  111,  112,  114,  115 

"World  Leaders'  Declaration  on  Popula- 
tion" (1967),  78 

World  War  I,  22-24,  266-67 

World  War  II,  22,  24,  267-68 


Yaa  Asantewaa,  266 
Yankey,  Ambrose,  269 
Yatenga  kingdom,  6 
Yeltsin,  Boris,  251 

Young  Pioneer  Movement,  34,  261,  287 
youth:  Nkrumah's  appeal  for,  27-28 

Zimbabwe:  state  visit  to,  244,  245 
zonal  councils,  225 


378 


Contributors 


LaVerle  Berry  is  Senior  Research  Specialist  for  Africa  with  the 
Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of  Congress. 

Nancy  L.  Clark  is  Associate  Professor  of  History  at  California 
Polytechnic  State  University. 

James  L.  McLaughlin  is  a  retired  United  States  Army  colonel 
who  has  written  numerous  articles  on  Africa  and  the  Mid- 
dle East. 

Thomas  P.  Ofcansky  is  Senior  African  Analyst  with  the  Depart- 
ment of  Defense. 

Maxwell  Owusu  is  Professor  of  Anthropology  at  the  University 
of  Michigan. 

David  Owusu-Ansah  is  Associate  Professor  of  History  at  James 
Madison  University. 


379 


Published  Country  Studies 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-98 

Albania 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-59 

Angola 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-111 

Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 

and  Georgia 

550-169 

Australia 

550-176 

Austria 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-112 

Belarus  and  Moldova 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-61 

Burma 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-159 

Chad 

550-77 

Chile 

550-60 

China 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Carib 

bean,  Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-69 

Cote  d'l voire  (Ivory 

Coast) 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

(Area  Handbook  Series) 

550-36  Dominican  Republic 

and  Haiti 

550-52  Ecuador 

550-13  Egypt 

550-150  El  Salvador 

550-28  Ethiopia 

550-167  Finland 

550-173  Germany,  East 

550-155  Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-153  Ghana 

550-87  Greece 

550-78  Guatemala 

550-174  Guinea 

550-82  Guyana  and  Belize 

550-151  Honduras 

550-165  Hungary 

550-21  India 

550-154  Indian  Ocean 

550-39  Indonesia 

550-68  Iran 

550-31  Iraq 

550-25  Israel 

550-182  Italy 

550-30  Japan 

550-34  Jordan 

550-56  Kenya 

550-81  Korea,  North 

550-41  Korea,  South 

550-58  Laos 

550-24  Lebanon 

550-38  Liberia 


381 


550-85 

Libya 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-179 

Spain 

550-76 

Mongolia 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-47 

Syria 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-62 

Tanzania 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-46 

Panama 

550-97 

Uruguay 

Para  trnav 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-42 

Peru 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-162 

Poland 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-160 

Romania 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

382 


PIN:  006965-000 


